
--------------~------~~~-----r~-------.------------~~~---------­


VOL XVII, NO. 122 the independent ~llldt·nt new~paptT ~erving notre dame and ~ailll mary·~ WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 1983 

Spring break incident 
Roemer opts not to expel senior 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
dents' approval, included the follow­President, to he issued before break 
News Editor 
ing: next year, advising students of their 
responsibilities.Dean of Students James Roemer 
I ) A formal apology by Schierl to the yesterday put an end to rumors that 
students and to the University. After an hour-long session in a Morrissey Hall senior would be ex­
2) The drafting ofa letter by the Stu­which Roemer asked tor student pelled for an incident that occurred 
dent Body President to be sent to views on how best to handle the in Florida over Spring Break. Instead, 
The Button informing them that situation, he asked, "Is this (theRoemer said he would accept a tour­
Notre Dame students will no longer proposal) a fair appraisal of the point proposal submitted by six of 
participate in Button activities. whole problem?" The students the senior's friends. 
~) A directive issued by the Dean of voiced their approval, and the dean The incident, part of St. Patrick's 
Students making L:niversity policy responded, "We will tollow this Day celebrations at a Fort 
clear on this issue. 
see BREAK, page 7 
Lauderdale, Fla., bar -The Button 
4) A warning by the Student Body -involved senior Tim Schierl's par­ticipation in a Wet Willie contest. 
Schierl, alledgedly outfitted in Irish regalia and body paint, stripped on 
April game to teach 
stage in an effort to win the contest for the Notre Dame contingent. The Button sponsored the Wet 
about nuclear threat 
Willie contest as part of a series of 
six games that night. Entrants in the 
ByPAT MALLEY and PAT SAIN able to see how its recommenda­
contests were grouped by their uni­
NeuosStaff tions compare with the decisions ac­
versity, and The Button staff kept 
tually made by a control group in
point totals of the students of Notre 
"Monopoly" never taught you Washington, D.C.
Dame and the other schools present 
about nuclear war. Organizers learned of Firebreaks 
-Marquette, and the Universities of 
"Firebreaks" will. at a social concerns seminar they at­
Kentucky, Missouri and Kansas. 
The nuclear war/peace game will tended in Washington during Spring
Roemer's decision came at the 
be played at Notre Dame and Saint Break. The game is sponsored
end ofa meeting with Schierl, his six 
Mary's next month in conjunction nationwide by Ground Zero, a non­
friends who were at The Button that 
with Ground Zero 198~. a national partisan nuclear war education 
night, and nearly 200 other students 
organization that works to inform group. The group's executive direc­
who wanted to hear the Notre Dame 
the public about the threat of tor, who designed the game. is Roger
Administration's side of the matter. 
nuclear war. Molander, t<>rmer staff member of 
The meeting filled the Morrissey 
Student organizer Jerry Mulligan the National Security Council. 
chapel, while Schierl's parents, who 
believes at least I00 to 120 students Participant Amy Kenvin thinks 
came to the campus from Wisconsin 
will play Firebreaks during the last Ground Zero's emphasis on objec­
on Sunday, waited outside in the lob­
three weeks ofApril. tivity is the key to the: game. "You by. 
"People don't have to know much hear about anti-nuclear groups and 
The proposals, which were read 
about the specifics of the nuclear they are usually picturc:·d a~ very left, 
to the gathering and met the stu­
situation to play," Mulligan said. grass roots. flower-children types. "We want people to be educated This seemed like a very intellectual about the possibilities of nuclear approach." war. The emphasis of the whole :vtulligan agrees. "They're one of program i~ relations with Russia." the few groups that empha~1zc:s 
Small groups of players will he more than the emotional aspect of
Economists tangle in debate 
divided into teams representing the nuclear issue." either the llnited States or the Soviet Co-organizer :\1ary Sue Callan
By SONYA STINSON conclusiom of Reich'~ latest hook, against bailing out the Chrysler Cor· l'nion. The groups are then faced believes the game: is an ideal way to Senior StuffReporter which Gilder say~ advocates more poration, and although he favors with a simulated international intorm people, saying that "ifpeople:
government control of the government aid to industries, he 
nuclear crisis and given possible know about the:· issues, if they know Addressing the issue of whether economy. He said that a major fault would offer such aid only iftroubled courses ofaction tor their respective they can dfectively work for peace,the evils of the l'.~. economy are in Reich's work is the failure to men­industries promised to restructure countries to take. they will do so." 
welfare and taxation or protec­tion small businesses -"start ups" themselves. 
Mulligan stressed the educational "Nuclear war is a big i~sue today,"tionism and "cowboy -as a central part of the economy. Reich said that conservative benefits of the game. "It's not only a Mulligan said. ''The referenda, the entrepreneurialism," (;eorge Gilder, "It is these start ups that grow fas­economists present a misleading no­role-playing game. People who don't rallies, the bilateral freeze discus­a conservative economist. and test and produce most of the jobs tion of "cowboy 
know anything about (the prospects sions in Congress, the public's un­
Robert Reich, a liberal. debated in and the growth of innovation in the entrepreneurialism," in which of) nuclear war can learn." certainty with the \1X ( missle) planthe Library Auditorium last night. country," Gilder contended. He people are driven to productiveness The group analyzes a particular and high-tech weapons, all show 
gave an example ofa small company nuclear scenario and decides on a that a lot ofpeople, and a lot at Notre 
in Boise. ld. which was able to course of action. The group will he Dame, are genuinely concerned." 
produce a specialized computer chip at a smaller cost than any ex­perts had thought possible. This ype of innovation. Gilder con­
Syria expects new fighting; 
tinued, is financed mainly through personal savings. not in­
Israeli pullout seems unlikely 
stitutionalized savings. as most people assume. 
"The chief enemy of economic 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Syria The PLO has claimed Israeli au­growth is the involvement of said yesterday it expected to tight thorities poisoned the schoolgirls government and the taxation of again with Israel, and Lebanese and has asked the t;nited Nations to savings," Gilder said. leaders expressed pessimism about investigate. The Israelis deny the : 
Reich countered that the example U.S. attempts to arrange a pullout of charge but say the cause of the mys-Gilder gave was not a story of the Israeli t(>rces from their country. free market. The U.S. defense depart­Elsewhere, Palestine Liberation terious outbreak remains unknown. ment is the chief market for the type Organization leader Yasser Arafat Syrian Prime Minister Abdel Raouf of special technology Gilder stopped in Bahrain during a shuttle al-Kasm told his Cabinet in described, he said. among Arab capitals, with no word Damascus an Israeli attack on Syria 
He argued that Gilder and other on his planned trip to Amman for was "possible and expected." But he supply side economists present a talks with Jordan's King Hussein. claimed the Soviet-supported nation
George Gilder Robert Reich 
false choice "between a marvelously The king, con~idering participaion was ready to fight the Israelis. 

entrepreneurial, dynamic, free in President Rc:agan's peace plan, has The debate was part of the Student market and a centralized, planned by the desire tor wealth and the fear called the talks with Arafat crucial. l :nion Academic Commission economy in which government ofpoverty. In the Israeli-occupied West Bank lecture series and wa~ moderated by bureaucrats decide capital now." Gilder argued that a major enemy of the Jordan River, troops sealed Thomas Schwartz. a :\otre Dame He suggested that the govern­of economic growth are what he the Town of Aenin and doctors in professor of economic~. ment curb proctectionism through called "liberal social programs," nearby hospitals said more than 140 
Gilder. a supply-~idc c:conombt subsidies, tariffs, tax breaks and the such as Medicaid and Aid to Families Palestinians, mostly teen-age school­and author of Vfealtb and Pouertv, like.. especially assistance to failing girls, were still suffering from a very
see ECONOMY, page 6 
began the debate by criticizing the businesses. For example. he was serious illness. 
This is the last issue of The Observer before Easter break. Happy Holiday! 
11Vews Brie/§ fh The rlhsen'<'r and The .·lssocialed Press There Will be a meeting on "Draft Registration and ()raft Resistance" tonight at -:50 in Room I 0 I of the Law School. Members of the panel will he: Prof. Don Blosser. Director of the Center for Discipleship at Goshen College: Prof. Edward M. Gaffney, Director of the Notre Dame Law School Center for Constitutional Studies' and Mr. Michael Ba.xter ofthe :'1/otre Dame Campus :vlinistry. The panel will consider the ethical. legal. moral and practical problems of dralt registration and draft resistance. All persons arc welcome to attend. -The Ohsen•er 
A Notre Dame accounting professor has 
received a financial grant from the Touche Ross Foundation to com­plete research on the integration of "not-for-prol1t accounting in­formation systems cases in the accountancv curriculum." Father Carl F. Ebey, a member of the faculty since 1980, received tht: S14,000 grant from Donald Georgen, vice chairman ofTouche Ross and Company and a Notre Dame alumnus. He will begin research this summer. continue it during the 19H5·H4 ;tcademic year, and 
·introduce it to a senior-level undergraduate group studying not-for­profit accountancy. -The Obsen•er 
Jack Beal, an artistin the contemporary movement of "New Realist" painters, will show and discuss some of his recent works at H p.m. Tuesday in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum ofArt. The program is sponsored by the Department ofArt, An Historv and Design. Beal, who is noted for his large narrative t paintings ~ffigures in modern guise performing everyday tasks, was recentlv involved in a major showing of realist works at the Pennsyl· vania A~ademv of Fine Arts in Philadeophia. He has.exhibited widely and is in many. private as well as public collections a,round the world. -The Obsen,er 
Woodcuts and acrylics of Don Yogi. associate professor of art at Notre Dame. will be on display in the upstairs gallery of South Bend's Century Center from April 3 to May I. An opening reception is scheduled for..., p.m. Saturday April 9, The ex­
. hibition is entitled "Floating World H3." and financial support is provided by the Indiana Arts Commission and the National End~w­ment for the Arts. Yogi joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1963 after study at the Universities ofChicago and Wisconsin. -The Obsen1er 
Barney Clarkwas eulogized before l;,wo mourners ye~: terdav as a seeminglv ordinary man who became a selfless ptoneer. "To dworld increa~ingly filled with hopelessness and despair. he stood quietly and resolutely for an entirely different view of life," Elder Neal A. Maxwell of the Mormon Church's Quorum of the Twelve Apostles said ofClark. "His impact was immense-greater then he could possibly know." The 62-year-old Clark died last Wed· nesday, his !12th day of life as the first man with a permanent artifi· cia! heart. At his death, his doctors praised him a~ a winner." Maxwell said it was not onlv a time to mourn, but time to salute a special man. "On face, Barnev Clark may have seemed quite ordinary, but he did extraordinary things," he said. The retired dentist, Maxwell said, was "a seltless pioneer. adding a new dimension to the Mormon pioneer tradition in which those who lost their loved ones crossing the Plains nevertheless picked up their handcarts and headed west." ­
AP 
The body of an Indianapolis woman 
was found in the trunk ofher car in a supermarket parking lot yester­dav nearlv 17 hours after her husband reported her missing, police satd. Jane Brumblay, 31, who was emploved in the personnel section of L.S. Avres & Co.'s Glendale Shopping Center. had left work about 11 a.m. ·Monday to attend a meeting downtown. A Marion County sheriffs deputy. said Mrs. Brumblay's husband. Steven, reported her missing shortly after 6 p.m. Monday. Indianapolis police homicide investigator Norman Matthews said he believed Mrs. Brumblay was still alive when she was forced into the trunk. adding that she was bruised. An autopsy was to be performed. Larn· Davis. assistant manager of Glendale Shopping Center, said, "We have had no 
problems in regards to larcenies, robberies and rape." He said the shopping center and mall are patrolled around the clock. -AP 
Egg McMuffins in New England buy. e~gs 
from the farms there. where 9 million hens lay almost 2 btllton BROWN eggs every year. The poultry farmers who own those 9 mil· lion chickens in Maint:, New Hampshire an Massachusetts are feeling frkd over the fast-food chain's decision to use white eggs instead of brown eggs in a nationwide giveawa,· in May. In the McDonald's promotion. customers will receive half a dozen fresh white eggs with cerrain purchases. the idea being to put to rest any suspicion that McDonald's uses p<nvdered or processed eggs. Nearly all ofNew Hampshire's 600.000 laying hens produce brown eggs. said Thomas Danko. poultry ~pecialist for the New Hampshire Extension Sen:ice. Last week, the New England Brown Egg Council tried unsuccessfully to convince :\1c0onald's it should use brown eggs. at least in New England. in its giveaway. :\tcDonald's had already agreed to buy its eggs for the promotion from Connecticut white-egg producns. who supply all the eggs for the chain's :'l!ew England restaurants. -.4P 
Increasing cloudiness with a ~0 percent chance of rain or snow late today. The h1gh will be in the upper ~0~. There i~ a <;(l percent chance ;>f ;ain or snow tonight with tht: low in tht: low to mid ~~(h .\IL'·'rh .:l<Hid' \\''th a chance of rain tomorr•>w Tht· h1~n will he in tlw f•>'l'· ~Os. -.4P 

Wednesday, March 30, 1983-page 2 
Closing the lottery notebook 


Fr. :vtichad). Heppcn put to rest tht: fears of many juniors \londay when he announced that there will be no lottery for on-campus housing h>r I9H.>,·H·!. In aSpe­cial Bulletin. Heppen said that "All students who sub­mitted valid contracts to the Office of Student Residences by "i p.m. Februan· 2. 19H_>, will be ac· comodated. There will he no lottery." 
Phew' Sighs of reliefwere ht:ard across campus as the news spread. Juniors could finally npke permanent housing plans for next ye;tr without worrying about having them crushed by the roll ofdice. 
The matter is now closed. and room picks will proceed as usual on April z-. 2H. and 29. It's time to close my notebook on the subject for another year ... 
• :vtake no mistake -a lotterv was a definite pos­sibilitv. In fact. when Heppen tlrst announced the pos­sibilit;· on February I I. a lotten· seemed inevitable. The housing office received 504 more housing contracts than they have beds available. Since then, 2H4 people decided to move off· campus. 
That means that there are still 220 ( I 50 men and ""'0 women) more contracts 
. than beds. A lottery was only averted because of a late decision by Heppen that "the study lounges in certain dorms" could be used to house some first year stu· dents next year. 
Heppen "was fully prepared to announce a pro· cedure for a lottery," as late as Monday morning. The plans for such a lottery had been t1nalized and were sit· ting on his desk. 
A problem, however. mav arise if the same situation oc· curs next vear. Students might he tempted to ignore Heppen b~cause "he threatened the same thing last year and nothing happened." Beware, Class of'85. 
• The solution to the problem is not totally popular. There is no doubt that the Towers and the Pasquerilla dorms will receive the majority of the extra students. Grace and Flanner have been forced to fill their study lounges before, and will be called on again. 
A small random sampling ofthese four dorms showed that the residents don't want their study lounges used for housing. Tower residents remember the crowded bathrooms and lack of study space experienced in the past. 
Heppen doesn't like the idea, either. "It is not a good situation when the study lounges are used for housing," he savs. He fullv intends to move all freshmen out ofthe study lounges ~s other spaces become available around campus. 
David Dziedzic 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Wednesday 
presented is better than throwing students off campus. Mrs. Dolores Ward, Rectress of P.W.. summed it up when she said, ''I'm not happy about losing the study lounges. However. if it's the only alternative to a lottery, I can live with it." 
• Perhaps the l'niversity should learn a lesson from the past few weeks and consider a new method for dis­trihutng housing contracts. This year. the question wasn't settled untill:'eb. 28. -far too late for students. 
The l'niversity has no plans for building more dorms because the demand for on-campus housing cannot be predicted from year to year. The powers-that-be are afraid that new beds might go wasted if the on-campus trend reverses. 
By distributing a limited number of contracts, the University would be settling the issue from the start. Stu­dents would know as early as January if housing was available. No waiting until the last minute. 
Heppen agrees with this point. "Down the line, we have to develop a procedure for handing out contracts," he says. 
• Several people deserve recognition for their efforts in informing the students about the severity ofthe situation. Student Government Housing Coordinator Jorge Valencia worked closely with Heppen, organizing the successful Off-Campus Landlords' Open House, which 250 people attended. Valencia, the Hall Presidents' Council (especially Presi· dent Mike McAuliffe), Junior Class President Mark Ruehlmann, and the Student Senate all treated the mat· ter seriously from the start, thereby influencing enough people to move "Off-campus. 
Observer note_______, 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessari~y represent the views of The Observer or its editorial board. 
J 
But almost everyone agrees that the solution 
The Observer 
EVERYONE IS PICKING UP 
It ~as a strange night at The Ohsert'er. The normal!\· staid oftkes hecame a zoo 
ON PILOT PENS
of people v.:ho had no husiness heing around. oth~rs who hdonged hut had no 
WATCH OUT FOR
idea of what was ~oing on. and still other!\ who kne\\• what was going on hut 
THE STUDY HALLSNATCHERS
could do nothiilg ahout it. Chief amon~ those who trit:'d to keep order were Tim. 
They know that the 89c 
Tom, \-1an. Tom, and (of course) Bruce~ 
extra fine Pilot Razor
and most. if not all. tailed miserahlr. Alii can say is damn it. I'm glad it's time for 
Point marker pen writes 
. • • 
as smooth as silk. And ,,.:fi:"':.~ C the custom-fit metal ~t.··..-'' ~ · 
Ea."iter Break!! 
1 collar.helps keep that .~;. ; -) .. ~ pomt extra f1ne page ·. · . . 
after page. That's why ··,. ,, .· . 
when 1t cornes to a 
C', ' 
Razor Point. it's love '··...·1. 
----.. .
at f1rst write. · . / 
_..'4: '·. 


( ·..,
' \ 
\> ' \ . ! 
-. )~·t .
The Observer 'USPS '>'-'8 S>20' ,,, pubhShP.rt M:..1•,.jav !hrouqh 'F·1d-h ,.,,..,,_"! _~n r,ofT"'e !~:·..:!ball Sa!ur~dvS e..r.c.ept 
.:h..Jn'1g exa•,.1 ttr'ld v~cat'.'"' pF·r·~~·(ls The Observer •S oubtL<;h:~·J ~y ·~ •• <;"v1f.'n'::. ;t Ncrre Da·ne an.:J Sd•n' •.-1ar, > C~· 1eae SubSU1pt1cns 'T'tdv DE> pur·.ndsec1 
~ fo; 525 per year 1S15 per -:;e-··~El":Jtt'r 1b-,· 
~\
""''ng The Observer P 0 8 ·• 0 ~otre Da'T'E' ln·:l'dna 4.)5:,;; The Observer ' ,, -.e·"h'" ' The 
\\ -~.. 
Associatl"d Press ·\ .,.,., .-:co,.'· '' 
...... 
·-:---------­
.n~, f~~...._ :/i~ a?'"/t/u,~.:;t.'i<..:Z_ 
.·/ ·-·---.. --·""-··· __ .., _____.y,..·g..,l!""owna._'...S..,po~o..,s..,q!..ro~i_;"'._~o.:.':.:.·'~·"-''-"-'--..::·~:::.....-...:'e._•..,{.;.;h""~·_;··___ 
------------~ ·­

----~---------··-~ -·--·---­
The Obser-ver Wednesday, March 30, 1983-page 3 
SMC seeks names for Pieta Award 
By AMY STEPHAN values. Neu•s Staff A list of eligible faculty members has been distributed to Saint :vtary's 
Nominations are now being ac~ students and faculty members. Addi­cepted from Saint Mary's students, tional lists are available in the Fresh­faculty and staff for the annual Maria man Office, 121 Le Mans Hall. Pieta Award -which recognizes a Letters of nomination are due in the faculty member for outstanding Freshman Office by April 6. teaching in lower division courses. The award is in recognition ofSis­
Letters of nomination will be ter Maria Pieta, who graduated from reviewed by a committee chaired by Saint Mary's in 1922 and entered the Susan Vanek, freshman academic Congregation of the Sisters of the counselor, which includes students, Holy Cross. faculty and administrators. Pieta spent most of her profes­
After screening all nominations, sional life serving the College in the committee will select three can­various capacities, including teacher didates whose names will be sub­of journalism, dean of students, mitted to the Academic Affairs chairman of the theology depart­Council for final consideration and ment, director of the staff student selection of the recipient. program, vice president of the Col­
Vanek said she encourages stu­lege ( 1955-1965 ), and alumnae­dents to nominate deserving in­college coordinator. She retired in structors for this award. "We think it 1969. (the award) is important because at First presented in 1976 to Sister 
The Universitv of Missouri team presents its which was held in the Center for Continuing
the College we place a lot of em­professor of art Cecilia Ann Kelly, 
case in the MBA invitational Case Competition Education. See story this page.
phasis on lower division teaching." the award has since rec.ognized 
yesterday. Notre Dame won the competition,
Letters of nomination should ex­Dorothy Feigl (chemistry), Isis plain several aspects ofthe character Quinteros (modern languages), Lin­oft each candidate: •The qualities as nea Vacca (English), Mark Bam­
Will assume Chicago post 
a teacher that make the nominee benek (chemistry), Penny Jameson stand out. (psychology), and Gail Mandell 
•The degree to which the professor (humanistic studies). 
Egan reflects on thirteen-year stay 
stimulates intellectual curiosity. This year's recipient will be an­
•The long-term influence the nounced at Saint Mary's Honor Con­
professor has had on education and vocation on May 2. By HELEN LUCAITIS "I was invited home to Chicago, archdiocese from 1959 to 1969 and and trust I'll be able to help Joseph served as pastor of Presentation
News Staff 
Bernadin in the work of continued Church in Chicago from 1966 to renewal of the Archdiocese," Egan
With mixed emotions, Monsignor 1970.
Notre Dame team victorious 
says. After coming here, Egan was ap­
!ohn Egan will end his thirteen-year 
;tay at Notre Dame April 15 and 
"Notre Dame has been my home 
pointed special assistant to Presi­
tssume the position of Director of
in MBA case competition 
for thirteen years. Some of the hap­dent Theodore Hesburgh and 
.Iuman Relations and Ecumenism 
piest years of my life have been assumed responsibility for the Uni­
for the Archdiocese ofChicago.
By TIM BUCKLEY sity, University of Illinois at Urbana­spent here." savs Egan. versity's various Church service
"I am very sad to leave Notre
News Staff Champaign, and University of programs. He is also founder and for­
Dame. Right now I am suffering the "Notre Dame has given me the op­
Missouri at Columbia. mer chairman of the Catholic Com­
pain of withdrawal, but at the same portunity to work with people of
The Notre Dame team won the Funded in part by Johnson & mittee on Urban Ministry.
time I am happy," he says. academia and serve the church.
:vtBA Invitational Case Competition Johnson chemical companies, the Some of my dearest friends of my Egan's new office will be in the
yesterday for the second con­competition emphasizes the founda­
Chicago Archbishop Joseph Ber­
whole life are at Notre Dame, espe­Archdiocese's Pastoral Center, andsecutive year. tion, organization and control of a 
nardin announced March 24 that 
cially Father Hesburgh." he will live at Holy Name Cathedral.
Teams from four regional colleges business with special attention to 
Egan, the director of the Center for presented their solutions in the Cen­the manager's responsibility for Pastoral and Social Ministry here, Egan came to Notre Dame in A replacement for Egan has not diagnosing, isolating, and defining
ter of Continuing Education to a would assume the directorship in 1970. He was Director of the Office been appointed, but a committee is problems.
panel of local judges, after having Chicago. of Urban Affairs for the Chicago discussing the matter. 

studied a case problem in business administration. 
Paul Conway, associate professor of finance and business economics and competition coordinator, said, other than "personal notes and textbooks which participants may have brought with them," the Notre Dame Library was the only source which contestants were allowed to utilize. 
Each team had one day to prepare 
its business strategy case. 
The competion began at the uni­versity level with an "in house" com­petition between six individually formed Notre Dame Master of Busi­ness Administration teams. The win­ning team from this group represented Notre Dame yesterday in the inter-university competition. 
Said Conway,"! feel that their success illustrates that our MBA stu­dents can compete with the best from other schools -especially since our winning team goes on to compete with hand-picked all-star teams from other schools with great success at this level as well." 
The winning team, all-second year MBA students, was Carla Cotton, Geoffrey Jarman, and Thomas Rolfs. 
.Jr. 
"There were five judges, a head academic judge, and a panel of four judges from the business world," Conway said. 
The panel of business judges was comprised of Robert Hostetler. president and chief executive of­tker of CTS Corporation, Fred :vtischke, vice president and treasurer of Skyline Corporation. Robert Sieron. manager of planning at Amoco Chemical Corporation, and Rudolph Reiners. senior vice president of First \lational Bank. Elkhart. 
Notre Dame sponsors the com­petition. The other three schools competing were: Ohio State Univer-
Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
If mu think ltali;m !iJod is just spaghl'tti :md pizza. Wl'\'l' got a mouth ~opening e\jX'tit'lln' waiting ti 1r \Oll e1uy \\'edili'Slbl night !Tom -1:!1!1 IIHHI p.m. at Till' lnoking <;l;t.;s kl'staura.ill in tlw South Bend \larriott 
Introducing \lama \larriott s ~-a ht/11/l g11sl11 ;UTa\ of ;mtip:L~ta. minL·strorw. ll'ttucilll'. cacciatorl'. h~:tgill'. p;L~ta :md ti n1r Salk'l'S. Cllel'Sl'. hrl'alb ;Uld dt'SSl'l'tS. 
Its ,tll ser.l'd up in :1 btill' lt:tli:u1 atmosplwrl' -· dwcktwd tahll'cl< 1th~. a strolling musici;UJ till' 11orks. 
All 1ou c:u1 l':lt ti 1r Sh l)) Childrl'n undl'r I~ · q ll) 
Reservations Appreciated 

South Bemlj~orriott lfottl. 125 \. St. Joseph St.. South Bend (2JL)-) 25+2000 
Ifyou Jtke The Far Side cartoons, you'll love TheFar Side book .•. 


ORDER NOW! 
r-------------------------------­
Man to: The Far Side Book C/O Notre Dame~ 
AD~ Uldllclleei, IDe. 4400 Johnson Drt~ 
Fairway. Ks. 66205 
Please send me __ copies of The Far Side at $3.95 per copy postage paid. Enclosed Is 
____. Make check payable to Anctrew. and Mcllleel, Inc. 
0 Check 0 Money Older D vrs.-. 
D Moster Charge/ Molter Cord 
Name  
~  
! f j l ~I  Address Clly sraro  Zip  
~  I  
!I• I "I  Crtorl coro •  
~I  
" I ~ I -I  MoS'er CMrgto lntertxlnk I  EJ.pll  Do•  
o I  
I  SIQnolure os on cre<lrl cord  
I  

J 

r-~---~ 
The Observer 
-------------------------------------------·-------------------­SMC Dean of Student Affairs 
Rice to seek NY management job 

By SUSAN O'HARA 
Staff"Reporter 
Kathleen Rice. who Sundav resigned as Saint :\1ary's dean of stu­dent affairs, has indicated that she will seek a job in the tkld of manage­ment in the :\1anhattan area of New York Citv. 
In her seventh year at the College. Rice savs she made the decision to 
'leave after careful consideration of her personal and career goals and values. "I want to return to the East where the ocean and my family hap­pen to he," she says. 
Rice plans to live and work in .Manhattan. She believes that her position at Saint :\1ary's has provided her with the experience needed for a management-level joh. 
The announcement of her resignation occurred at the weekly Board of (iovernance meeting. Rice explained then that she was leaving because "I feel I've done all I can at 
Saint :\1ary's." 
Rice was a Manhatten resident while while studving for her doc­torate at Columhia l'niversity. 
After receiving a Bachelor of Arts 
3pm-12 midnight
r
~~---~~-~ 



degrt:l· in Philosophv and Psvcholo­College Board in Boston and :\ew gv at :\lortheastern l 'niversitv in Bos­York and was a psvchiatric social ton, she attended Boston College for worker. her \'lasters degree in Psychology. 
Beti>re coming to Saint \1ary's. Rice's resignation becomes ef 
Rice was the director ofa counseling fective in June. and a national search center. heading the office of transfer ti>r a dean of student affairs will he admissions at Boston College. She conducted to tlnd a replacement for ·•l..;n \\'orl··~tf -~ .. ·• r""""~"lt:Hlt fnr the her. 
Acting EPA chief likely to resign, say govt. sources 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Dr. John dez met late yesterday in h.is office Hernandez, acting administrator of with White House aideJoe Ryan and the Environmental Protection that apparently his resignation was Agency since the resignation of asked for at that time. Anne McGill BurtiJrd two weeks ago, President Reagan has nominated will resign tomorrow, say ad-William D. Ruckelshaus to he the ministration sources. permanent head of the emhattled 
Hernandez, who himselfhas come agency, hut Ruckelshaus has not yet under tlre for his actions involving a been contlrmed by the Senate. report on dioxin contamination in Michigan, will he replaced as acting ABC News reported last night that administrator hy Lee Verstandig, Reagan wil1 seek the resignations according to an agency source who today of EPA General Counsel asked not to he identified. Robert Perry and Assistant Ad-
Another source said that Hernan-ministrator John Todhunter. 
~1 ~RIDGfl ~cGUIRf'S" 
~
-.o. 
·­
~ 
Regular Bridget's-., 
"SMC Chic" Party 
"Little Kings" Party 
Thursday 3/31 
Bargains
Wed. 3/30 
Great prices & prizes til midnight
Meet a real live SMC Chic (or 
'Mon-Tues ... 7-10 :?5¢ Beer 
Bring your own) for 
Wed-241 Vodka Drinks 
75 u Jellybeans" 
"Dyngus Day" Party 
Thurs-Party Nite
Monday 4/4 til midnight
241 vodka Drinks 
$2.50 pitchers 60 14 Oz. drafts 
Fri & Sat-Beat The Clock. 
Plus chicken wings & prizes 
$1.00 Bloody Marys 
'TIL MIDNIGHT 

------------·--· ·---------­
~-­
The Observer Wednesday, March 30, 1983 -page 5 
Discusses housing issue 
HPC proposes ending grad R.A.'s 
By MIKE KRISKO 
.Veu•s Staff 
Excluding graduate ~tudents from 
po~itions as resident assistants wa~ 
one way suggested to alleviate the 
housing problem according to Zahm 
Hall President Bob Johnson at last 
nights HPC meeting. 
Student Government Housing 
Commisioner Jorge Valencia read 
Director of Student Housing Father 
Michael]. Heppen's letter which an­
nounced that there will not he a 
housing lottery. 
HPC President Mike McAuliffe warned that the averted lottery was not an idle threat and said that measures must he taken to prevent the reoccurence of the problem. 
Cavanaugh Hall President Jim Leous presented the Ad Hoc Com­mittee's long range suggestions to prevent a housing shortage in the tj.nure: 
•Each 
rector and hall president should reevaluate room sizes and in­crease the number of rooms where possible. 

•Graduate 
residences should he considered for housing some up­perclassmen. 

•The 
housing policy for transfer students should he reevaluated. 

• 
Alternate housing should he considered -as was done with Columba and Vincent Halls when St. Edward's Hall burned down. 

•Study 
and ~ocial space in the Pa~querillas. Lewis, Flanner and Grace Halls should be used. 


Grace Hall President Pete DiC­hiara strongly opposed the naming of Flanner and Grace's study lounges stating that "it wouldn't he good for freshmen to be put in study lounges because they would he isolated from the sections." 
McAuliffe said that the sugges­tions should he further investigated before they are sent to Heppen. "We (the council) should t1nd out how many rooms would be opened up if only seniors were made R.A.'s and we need to find out what the Univer­sity's policy regarding transfer stu­dents is," he said. The council agreed that the proposals should be researched further and that a new draft of the letter to Heppen should be voted on at the next meeting. 
In other business, An Tostal Chair­man Jay Reidy provided the council with a preliminary financial report 
English Dept. zs acceptzng contest entries 
By scorr HARDEK 
StaffReporter 
The Notre Dame English Depart­ment is accepting entries for its an­nual writing contest. Prizes will be awarded for the best entries in the areas of poetry. playwriting, fiction and essay. 
Three of the contests are for original poetry, two are for essays and the other two are awarded for fiction and playwriting respectively. Any undergraduate may enter all of the contests except for the original essay contest. which is limited to seniors. 
Graduate Mudents are onlv allowed to enter one of the poetry contests, which,incidentally.has the largest money prize of s 100. All of the other open undergraduate con­tests carry a S<;O.OO first prize. 
The  deadline  for  submitting  
entries  is  -l  p.m.  on  Wednesday,  
April 6.  

All entrie~ must be typed and identified only hy an attached card with the author's address. 
For further information is available in Room 309 O'Shaugnessy Hall or from Professor Sonia Gernes. 
and announced the new rules for the for L'il Sibs Weekend and that eve t nts entitled "Kisser" and the "Mr. reservations for the weekend are no 
Campus Contest." Reidy also an­nounced that the "Campus Scream" will he dropped upon the request of the administration, and will be replaced by a fireworks display. 
Reidy cited feedback from ·saint 
Mary's students, who complained 
that the An Tostal beer garden held 
at Saint Mary's causes a disturbance, 
as the reason for requesting the 
council's advice about alternating 
the holding of the e\"ent between 
the two campuses each year. "Many 
St. Mary's students gave me flack 
about drunken Domers all over the 
place." he said. 
Reidy concluded by asking the council to publicize An Tostal in each of the dorms. He especially re­quested that the presidents publicize Saturday night's "Irish Wake" since it was not well attended last year. 
Sue Fleck announced that I I 00 high school-age students are coming longer available. 
McAuliffe postponed discussion of Senate Resolution II H until next week. The resolution dicusses co-ed housing at Notre Dame. 
McAuliffe began an informal dis­cussion about the Senate's question: Should Notre Dame offer financial compensation to its student goverQ­ment officials' 
"Georgetown gives 5 I 000 to some of its officers, while Catholic l'niversity gives half-tuition to its of­tkers. Northwestern gives grants to its officers who qualify for the work­study program," he said. The discus­sion will be continued next week. 
Holy Cross President Chris Tayback announced that a "Hunger Seminar will he held by Ms. Kim Bobo, from Bread for the World. She will be speaking on behalf of the hunger lobbyist group on April6 at 7 
p.m. at the Center for Social Con­cerns. 

Five cent gas tax hike takes effect on Friday 
(AP) -Those higher prices you're likely to notice at the gasoline pump Friday are no April Fool's joke. 
The S-cents-a-gallon increase in the federal tax on gasoline President Reagan pushed through Congress takes effect Friday. 
The increase in the fuel tax was included in the Surface Transporta­tion Act that Congress passed in December -the same law that in­creased heavy truck taxes and in­furiated independent truckers who struck in protest. 
The jump represents more than a 
I00 percent raise in the 4-cents-a­
gallon federal tax consumers now 
pay on gasoline and diesel fuel. 
Consumers using gasohol won't escape the new tax, either. The mixture of gasoline and alcohol has been exempt from a federal sur­charge, but consumers now will pay 4 cents a gallon in taxes. 
Some stations already have in­creased their prices, according to Jerry Davis of Rock Island Refining Corp. in Indianapolis. He said the in­creases are gradual so that con­sumers "won't be hit on the head with a big increase over the Easter weekend." 
Jim Payne, manager of a Standard Oil station in Hammond, agrees that some pump prices have been raised early. 
"Some people have jumped the gun and taken the increase early, pocketing the money before they 

McGann for Mayor 
Vote May l. 1983 
Midwest Actors Showcase Presents 
HUMPHREY BOGAR1: ODE TO A TOUGH GUY 
Starring National Shakespeare Company Student CHRISTOPHER REILLY as Bogart 
Century Center, South Bend AprilS, 9, 10 at 8PM I April9, 10 at 2PM 
Students $4 -Century Center Box Office 
284-9111 
(show 10 when you p1ck up t10kets) 
'""·OR &m "R~'"' 11 a sensun·e ucwr und hu' YVM J 1 (real#:(/ cJ 111f!I1/UrUh/f! lflbUlt! 10 an Amerwun legend."FREEDOM ROCK -Columbia Mi.nouriun 

have to turn it over," Payne said, ad­ding that he anticipates stations will have trouble keeping a gasoline supply as motorists go after "one last fill before the increase." 
Payne now is getting s 1.02. 9 per gallon and says he'll have no choice other than to increase the price 5 cents to cover the higher tax. 
"Our profit now is too small to every absorb a penny of the tax," he said. "We've got to make some money, and company-operated sta­tions have torced us to lower our prices to he competitive. The _little guy has to baule to survive. The company-owned stations can come into an area like this and take a loss, just to put us out of business." 
The increase, however, creates a one-time problem for dealers. 
A provision of the same law re­quires them to pay 5 cents a gallon "tloor stock tax" on whatever gasoline they have in underground storage tanks at midnight tomorrow. 
PROFESSIONAl BUSINESS MANAGERS 
U.S. Navy Supply Corps has openings in training programs offering early mana­gerial and technical responsibilities in one of the following areas: 
Systems Inventory Management, Acquisition Con· tracting, Computer Systems, Financial manage­ment. Starting salary of $17,000, rapid advance· ment plus Benefits. 'BA/BS degree required or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred, U.S. citizenship, a~e limit 30. 
CALL TOLL FREE 1·800·382-9782. Or talk to a Navy representative who will be on campus Apr. 12 & 13. 

11"--------­
-CA>.U--·-~··------~-·-· .. 
r 
The Observer Wednesday, March 30, 1983-page 6
' 


The Observer/Ed Carroll 
joan Coogan, Katie Baugh, andjohn Dowd work on final plans as 
SeniorFormal draws near. The event will be held the weekend after 
Easter. 

N.D. Student Union presents a week of 
WAR MOVIES 
April 5-9 Tuesday...Bridge Over the 
River Quai Wednesday...Patton Thursday...Tora Tora Tora Friday...Guns of Navarone Saturday...Appcalypse Now 
All nights at 7:00 & 9:15 / Engineering Aud. $1 
Summer program 
Geologists to aid minorities 
By BETH WALSH 
News Staff 
Few inner-city minority high school students know what geology means. 
And few, if any, are planning on being geologists. 
But Chicago-area minority stu­dents will study geology and be in­troduced to related career opportunities this summer during a program sponsored by Notre Dame's Earth Science Department. 
Asummer program ofpreliminary 
instruction followed by a 12-day 
field trip to Montana, Wyoming and 
South Dakota begin june 20 at four 
regional sites -Northwestern Uni­
versity, Evanston; the University of 
Illinois, Chicago Circle campus; In­
diana University Northwest, Gary; 
and the University ofChicago. 
Minority students lack knowledge of geology, Earth Science Chairman Father Michael Murphy said, be­cause "the earth sciences are the most poorly taught sciences in the urban educational system." 
Classes for the program will be held four hours a day for two weeks, covering topics including mineral and rock indentification, stream and wind erosion, geologic fossils and glaciation. 
Based on class performance and 
examination results, 36 students 
from the preliminary programs will 
be selected for the trip to Montana 
beginning july 5. The group will be 
housed in a student dormitoy at 
Montana State University at 
Bozeman. 
After field trips to Yellowstone 
Park, the Rocky Mountains, and 
Madison Canyon earthquake area, 
the group will leave Bozeman on July II, traveling through the Grand Tetons National Park, Big Horn Mountains and Black Hills en route hack to Chicago. 
Minority students eligible for the 

EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
i I 
r 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month 
during your junior and senior years just so you'd join th~ COf!lpany 
after graduation'? Under a special .N"avy program \ve're domg JUSt that. 
It's called the .:\'uclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. 
And under it. you'll not only get great pay during your junior and 
senior ~·ears. but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable 
graduate-level training that is not available from any o~her ~mployer. 
If vou are a junior or senior majoring in math, engmeenng or ph_ysic<il sciences·. find out more today. And let your career pay off while still in college. 
For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: 
1·800·382-3782 
....~ •.t.'~_.{=.~~··.·t=J .:., • '1•: 
program are those in the upper l 0 percent oftheir class who have com­pleted their junior year, taken biol­ogy and chemistry courses and at least two years of math. Students also must submit letters of recom­mendation from two high school teachers, a 300-word essay explain­ing why they want to participate in the program, and written consent from parems or guardians. 
The program is free, underwritten by institutional grants given to Notre Dame from the Atlantic Rich­field Foundation, Conoco, Standard Oil of California, Standard Oil of In­diana and Texaco. 
Murphy is responsible for plan­ning and organizing the curriculum and field trips, with assistance from faculty and staff of the cooperating 
11n iver~~~;'?'". 
continued/rom page 1 
with Dependent Children. Referring to a vocational program he researched in the 1970's, Gilder contended that, because of welfare, ghetto youth really did not want jobs, "especially when they found out they entailed work." 
Reich argued that ghetto problems are more directly traced to the government policy offighting inflation with unemployment, which disproportionately affects the poor. 
Gilder also commented on how 
his hook deals with women in the 
economy. "Perhaps their position is 
more central than men's because 
they produce people," he said. 
He sees their role as important in gu<irding again~t breakdown of the family, which he views as "one ofthe most essential problems of the economy." 
Gilder drew hisses from the audience when he proposed that women in the work force do not earn less than men because of dis­crimination, but because "they (men) have better things to do and understand it better (the work world)." 
Gilder said that the country is on 

"Our rationale is that since very few minorities are studying geology and the related earth sciences, we would like to take them to Montana to expose them not only to the studies involved bur also to rhe career possibilities," Murphy said. 
"We would like to remedy the fact that many inner-city minority high school students are not fully aware ofwhat geology is all about," he said. 
Application forms can be ob­tained by writing to: Summer Program for High School Students, Department of Earth Sciences, P.O. Box 1020, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. Completed applications must in­clude an up-to-date high school transcript and be postmarked no later than May 1. 
• • . Economy 
the way to economic recovery. "The policies which the Reagan ad­ministration initiated are starting to work now. The economy is begin­ning to adapt," he said. 
Reich countered that the ap­parent recovery is at hest "anemic," and that full recovery will not take place until "people feel secure." 
Big oil slick threatens land· ofBahrain 
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) 
Patches of a growing, 100-square­
mile oil slick from Iran floated closer 
to the island-nation of Bahrain and 
other Persian Gulf countries yester­
day, threatening "untold environ­
mental and ecological damage," 
experts said. 
Fears were expressed in Bahrain that the 6-week-old slick -which· could not be cleaned up immediate­ly because of the Iraq-Iran war ­
was capable of"engulfing the whole island" of 360,000 inhabitants. The crude from two bombed oil fields continued to gush into the widening slick. 
BE THERE 
.50 ffiichelob Wed. match 30 
macri's located behind Jeremiah Sweeney's 

7. 9:15. 11 :30shows 
S1 Engineering Auditorium Sponsored by K of C 
The Observer Wednesday, March 30, 1983 -page 7 
• • • Break 


continuedfrom page 1 
solution. There will be no hearing tomorrow." 
The audience rose and applauded 
the decision, and Schierl's friends 
rushed to offer him their support. 
"I appreciate the support of my friends. That is friendship and love to me. I'm very, very sorry for what I did," said Schier!. 
His father, john Scheirl, said, "I think the University has made the right decision. Reason and justice has prevailed." 
Anne Schier!, Tim's mother, added that she was "so grateful for the support and concern of Tim's friends." After hearing the decision, his parents had to tight their way throught the crowd back into the chapel to hug their son. 
The decison was not reached, 
however, without a great deal ofdis­
cussion between Roemer and the 
students, most of whom had gone to 
Florida for Spring Break. 
Schier! opened the meeting with a 
short statement and then retired to 
the back of the chapel. 
"I just want to say something real quick," he said. "I want to thank vou for coming and showing your ;up­port. I'm sorry. I was wrong. I hurt myself, the University of Notre Dame and my reputation. I care about you and to tell you I made a drastic mistake is hard. I'm truly sor­ry." 
Senior Kevin Olson read a letter 
signed by him and four other friends 
who were with Schier! in the bar. 
(See the text of the letter which ac­
companies this article) In it, the five 
students stressed that Schier! did not 
act on his own, but rather responded 
to group pressure. Though they did 
believe that punishment was in or­
der, the five defended Schierl's 
record as a student and suggested 
that a more effective method of 
punishment be found. 
Roemer commented that Schierl's friends "came over and did a remarkable job of making an argu­ment in a firm and rational manner. The point they made that struck me most effectively was the idea that 'we were all in this together,' a com­munity thing." 
A point that the dean stressed was 
the need for the students to under­
stand eJOactly what occurred at The 
Button on Mar. 17. "Ifwe're going to 
make a serious commitment, we 
need to be explicit." 
Dave Pairitz described the events. 
"The Button advertized that schools 
would be competing on Thursdav. 
So a mood was created at the ve~ 
beginning of the week, the spirit ;f 
competition and foolish pride. The 
Button was really playing it up," he 
said. 
The night began with a simple Basketball shootout, followed bv a chugging contest. But Pairitz added that these events and the rivalry that was generated set the tone for the later. more serious contests. In addi­tion. during the intermissions, the staff of The Button pushed beer sales, he said. 
An erotic banana eating contest followed, in which Pairitz said "heavy stuff was going on stage," including a couple who alledgedly engaged in oral sex and other couples who imitated sexual acts. 
The Wet Willie contest was next, and Pairitz said he remembers Schier! "telling me he wanted to stav sober so he wouldn't get vulgar." H~ said the judges apparently ap­preciated the lack of vulgarity: "Tim won because he was a helluva dan­cer." 
The t1nal contests included a Wet T·Shirt contest and a :vtost Out­rageous contest, in which Roemer sa1d a student urinated on another and another consumed urine, only need you. There are some things that are so gross, such violations of human dignity, that we must hold some standards. What if we took no stand? Wouldn't that be losing an op­portunity to make points that we should be making?" asked Roemer­
Roemer's concern at the meeting was trying to find out what to do about the immedate situation and what to do about future breaks in which students will be traveling to Fort Lauderdale. The students responded, offering suggestions and 
all recommending that Schier! not be expelled. 
One student explained the atmos­phere ofpressure at The Button. "No one from Notre Dame stepped for­ward for the banana contest," he said. "We felt ptessure from other schools and The Burton staff They said it would have been the first time that a school would not have en­tered a contest." 
Another student agreed, saying 
that each school had to have 
someone participating, or else be 
the laughing stock of the other four 
schools. A number of students ad­mitted that The Button was exploit­ing the people there. 
The "road trip attitude" was deplored by a student, who believed that students should not Leave what they learn about morality behind them after they leave here. 
And another student questioned the legal authorities' tolerance ofthe activity in The Button, even though the police likely knew of the con­tests. 
The issue ofstudents not having a clear idea of University policy, in ad­dition to the question of how in­dividual students are reflective of the school also was raised. 
Suggestions for next vear in­
cluded a proposal to hold some 
other kind of party for St. Patrick's 
Day where Notre Dame students 
could get together, rather than 
relying on bars such as The Button. 
Roemer listened intentlv to all of the comments, and he ·repeated stressed that he wanted to hear everyone's opinion. The gathering, he said during the meeting, was "one of the t1nest things I has ever seen so far." 
March 28,198.3 
Dean Roemer: 
We, as a group, wish to express our feelings regarding Tim 
Scheid's behavior in Ft. Lauderdale during spring break. 
First of all, all of u~ were present for the contest. We encouraged Tim to participate beforehand, cheered for him while he was on stage and praised him afterwards. We were, like Tim, caught up in the "anythinggoes" atmosphere in The Button, as well as the intense rivalry with Marquette. Althoilgh we did not realize it at the time, Tim's actions on stage and ours in the audience were wrong. Togeth­er, as representatives of Notre Dame, we disgraced the University and made a mockery ofits Christian ideals. For this we are sorrv and we feel punishment is in order. · 
However, we feel that the dismissal of Tim Scheirl from the Uni­versity would be an excessive punishment. Though Tim's actions in this unique situation were deplorable, as a person he is not. For al· most tour years Tim has been a positivecontributor to the liniversity and has the support ofthe Morrissey Hall Staff as well as hispeers. We feel that we acted more or less out ofcharacter under the wild and emotional circumstances at The Button. We feel that there are other ways the University can provide a deterrent to future displays like 
this and we hope the University can find ofway ofdealing with this 
situation wich is more effective for all concerned. As a group we are 
willing to do publicly whatever possible to help Tim remain a mem­
ber of the University and to insure this sort of behavior does not 
occur again. Daniel Ellis Kevin Olson
Sincerely. 
Peter Agostino David Pairitz David Rectenwald 
YOUR CHANCE TO COME TO lONDON 
Junior-year programs, Postgraduate diplomas, One-year Moster's degrees and Research opportunities in the social sciences. are offered .. t the london School of Econor<1ics and Political Science. 
The w1\.~e .onge of sub1ect~ 1ncludes. Accounting & F1nance. Actuarial Sc1ence. Anthropology. Bu~mes~ Studies EconomiCs. EcorJ.::>metrics. Econ~m1c H1slory. E~ropean Stud1e!>. Geography: 
Gove.rr•menl, lndustr•al Relat1on5. International H1story. International 
Relati~:m::.. lQv:' Monageme.nt Science Operat1onal Resear<.h, Ph1lo~ophy. Plonn1ng Stuc..e~. Populot1on Stud1e!:!. Polit1cs. Sea U!:.e Polley. Soc_ial Adm1n1slra11an. Soc1al Work. Sociology. Soc1al Psychology. Slal"tical and Mathematical Sc1ences, System~ Anolys1~ 
;---­
Aj.)ph(aholl bionk~ lrnr" Admiu~ons Registraf', l.S.I.. Houghton Street,london WC2. Engkand Pleo.e state whether tunior yeor or postg,.aduote 

London School of Economic5 and Poiiu-,,: Science 
r ...............~.......................~....-. ........,.........~....... .............~..............~................:
~ 
~ ~ ~ N.D. Student Union now has ~ ~ openings for next year's i 
I COMPTROLLERS I 
~ See Margaret in the Student ~ ~ Union office 2nd floor Laf ~ i i 
i i
\._..._..._..._._.._.._..._._.._.._..._.._..._._..,_._..._._..._..._..._.._.i 
i (1 ~ 
~ Interested in being ~ 
t NAZZ t ~ DIRECTOR ~ 
The ObM:rYer/Ed Carroll 
Katie Spalding looks on as Matt Ferreti registers his siblingfor L'il Sibs Weekend. Registration is now closedfor the event, which will 
take place April15-17. 

ats Still available!! call Brian 1743 
PITTSBURGH CLUB Easter Break Bus Schedule Bus will leave from ND/CCE & SMC/Holy Cross Thurs. March 31 at 4pm. Will arrive PGH about 11 :45pm Bus will return from Pitt. Greyhound Terminal: Monday, April 4, 1983 at 1 pm rive 15 min. before scheduled times 


··1n my job a1 the First !'Oational Bank of Chicago. 1am Ctmstantly usm~ lhr knowledge acquired lhrough my parJ.IeRal tnunin~ a1 Roosevelt ·· 
--11111 Hnll blatt". II db and ltu'L' (;raduatt· 
LAWVER'S ASSISTANT: 
AGROWTH CAREER FOR THE SO's 
Training as a l.awya's Assistant can gtn· today·s n>llc:gc: 
graduate a valuable: edge: in the: joh markc:l. Entry-level positions in the: Chil-ago area pay as much as Sll.OOO to Sl 'i.OOO-and some: paralegals arc: now earning a.' much a.' S.U.OOO 
It takes just three months ol daytime: study (six months in thc: evening) to prepare tl>r a carc:er as a l.a\\-·ver·s Assistam The: program al Rooseveh l·niversity is the largesl A.I:I.A.-approved program in Illinois. and its record of graduate employment assistance i.~ the best there: is. 
FOR INFORMATION ANDA FREE BROCHURE CALL(312) 341·3882 OR MAILTHIS COUPON TODAY! RECRUITER ON CAMPUS APRIL 14 AT ST. MARY'S COLLEGE 
ROOSEVElT l"NIVER.'ilTY l.awyc:r·s Assistant Program -i W S. :\1id1igan Ave.. Chicago. 111. 6060'; 
-~ 
In UH>pt·ntll)fl "ath 'Ihe.: .'\,atunlal <.1.·nter h1r P".lralt.:l(.ill lralnlll)( 
•
Please send me acopy of 1hc Roosevelt Lawver's Assislll!11 Pmgram calal<>!( I am imercslcd in the___: Chtcago or_ Arling10n HeighL' localion. 
to spit it out on the crowd. 
i For 1983·84 ~ 
(.II\ l.n
"There is no question that if vou i ~ did a grosser thing. such as oral .sex 
llumc.:~ont·
i Apply in S.U. office i 
on stage, any reasonable person Approved li>r \:A. and 111. Statt· ( ;uarantc:ed Loans
i i
would say that Notre Dame doesn't 
Roo!'tl'\'t·ll L'ni\Tr~itv ou.imil!'t all ~rw..Jc..·nt~ on Ihe.· ha.o,i!'t of mdi\·idual
L ........-...............~................,........~..........,..~ .__..............,............,.........~~~ 
mc..Til and wuhout r~· · n.J to ract'. c.:olor. ~·x or a c.· 
~--------------------------­

Editorials 
Wednesday, March 30, 1983-page 8 
The way of the non-violent cross 
Why did Jesus Christ die' Jesus died to demonstrate the unconditional, ultimate nature of His love. He died a victim of violence, abandoned by His closest friends. Yet even at His arrest, one of His disciples pulled out a sword to defend Him and He rebuked him saying, "No more of this.'' 
Joe Ross 
Guest Columnist 
The Passion of Jesus has tremendous sig­nit1cance for His followers todav. We celebrate in the Passion that Christ died to rise again. The seed must go into the ground before it can burst forth with new life. We, too, must in a sense die before we can burst forth anew. We must die to our personal sel­fishness and to our need tor control and power. These are aspects ofour lives in which we take years to grow. Yet that growth needs to have a clear, obvious beginning. 
We can begin to die to our personal selfish­ness by turning in our hearts to prayer. The very act of beginning to pray takes us out of 
ourselves. and thus makes us vulnerable. It 
trulv is a hard thing to do. However, we must 
push ourselves to begin or we will not grow. 
We can begin to die to our need t<>r control 
and power hy examining the results of those needs. We have expressed our desire for power hy embracing violence as the means of defending our country -our way of life. Yet this embrace has gone far-beyond what anyone ever dreamed. We have surrounded ourselves with a system of nuclear weapons that reaches deep into our society. Parts of this university and all of human societv are touched hy this huge system of destruction, poised, waiting to be released. We must begin to disarm. and not just to disarm the weapons, hut to disarm our hearts as well. This "personal disarmament" of which Pope Paul \'I spoke, must begin with prayer. And so, on the Friday we call Good. the day we cdehrate Christ's sacritke of unconditional love. a spe­cial prayer will take place for the disarmament 
in our hearts and the disarmament ofweapons 
both in this country and throughout the 
world. 
The American Catholic bishops have urged 
us to pray t(>r peace and a particularly ap­propriate way for the Notre Dame-Saint .\1arv's community to respond would he to join a group from \1oreau Seminary in the "Wav of the :'lion-Violent Cross: Seven Sta­tions." 
•we 
will gather at t_he \1emorial (East) Door of Sacred Heart Church at I p.m. and pray in sorrow for those of all nations who have died as victims of past wars. 

• 
At the :\luclear Radiation Laboratory we shall pray for an end to the scientific research, done throughout the world, which enables nuclear. chemical, and bacteriological warfare to he waged. 

• 
At the Fitzpatrick Engineering Building our prayer will he that God's gift ofthe human mind he used for purposes of peace and justice. \1any men and women of good will, trained to apply the discoveries of the sciences have nowhere to use their skill ex­cept on instruments of death. We shall pray t(>r them and that their situation might change. 

• 
At the Business Building we shall pray that the business community throughout the world will realize its responsibility in working t(>r peace. and that economic systems might 


he less dependent upon militarv spending. 
• 
At the flag Pole adjacent to the Law School we shall prav for an end to over­zealous nationalism used as a seed of hatred among peoples. Differing culture~ and nations should be respected. 

•At 
the ROTC Building we shall pray for militarv systems around the world. We pray that the individuals who serve in them will he people of conscience. We pray that nations will lay down their arms in favor of dialogue and international trust. We pray that the day will come when the arms and the armies are no longer necessary. 


We pray on Good Friday in memory of Christ's suffering. We shall then conclude our prayer at the Grotto in a prayer of hope. We pray that through our actions we might he more and more transformed into the likeness of Christ. Please come and gather with us. To pray. We pray that we will represent hope for new approaches to the resolution of conflict, new ways of seeing Christ in all peoples, and new paths to peace. "Behold, I make all things new" (Book of Revelation). 
joe Ross is a candidate for the Congrega­tion ofHo~v Cross at Moreau Seminary. 
And the winner is ... Richie Daley 
Just because a white man votes for Bernard Epton does not make him a racist; just because a black man votes for Harold Washington does not make him a racist either. What matters is whether either candidate can carry offthe job as mayor of Chicago; sadlv, both are poor choices. 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 
Bernard Epton, if elected, would be the city's first Republican mayor in 52 years. In a city which ha~ never accepted the "trickle down theory," such a mayor would undouht­edly he at the mercy of the 50 aldermen who treat him like a figurehead; many blacks would mercilessly attack Epton as a racist (no matter what he did -after all. his victory could only come from a solid white base); even those whites who voted f(>r him would watch him unrelentlessly, for in giving him their mandate for white rule, would want nothing less than the abolition of the quota system. 
Epton. who no one even considered as a viable candidate until the results of the Democratic primary were tabulated. is a mil­lionaire. This, coupkd with his lily white sup­port, would.. in the long term analysis, separate him nut only from his middle class and lower middle class white majority, but also would incur the disgust of wealthy liberals who backed Washington. Epton is precisely what Washington claims not to be. And it is this anti-campaign upon which Epton has constructed his own campaign. 
Washigton is no saintly crusader either. He failed to pay income taxes for 19 consecutive years. And what is more inexcusable is his "forgotten clients," from whom he has been accused ofstealing money. 
J)ke Epton's candidacv, Washington's is a fluke -the very same machine politics which secured Richard Dalev Sr.'s elections in the 60s and 70s elected a long-shot when the two white candidates, Daley and Byrne, could not agree who was the better candidate. The rift within the white Democratic community was furthered by the machine's insistence that a simple plurality would secure a primary win. It is this same "plurality rule" which threatens to tear Chicago apart in the general election. 
With little hope of steering a non-racial course through the election, Chicagoans can only hope to diffuse the situation hy voting for the lesser of two evils, Harold Washington. But that vote should not he an acquiescence to Washington's past, nor should it be a blind vote for a black or even for a Democrat. 
Washington's message, while mysteriously close to the likes ofJesseJackson, provides the t(>resight needed to run Chicago. And anyway, Jackson is too busy running for president to care about Chicago. Like it or not, Washington is Chicago's best chance to tight Reaganism and fling the city out of the current depres­sion. 
It is indeed sad that the eyes of the nation 
are upon Chicago as if waiting for its "racist" 
white community to open fire on blacks 
should Washington win. Strangely enough, 
few ofthese stares are coming from blacks; the 
bulk of national attention rides on the likes of 
Walter Mondale and John Glenn. whose sup­
port stems more from presidential election 
hopes than from any sense of racial equality. 
The real winner of this race will be neither Bernard Epton nor Harold Washington; the real winner will be Richie Daley, a politician who, until recently, was a bumbling glimmer in his father's eye. Bur this glimmer ha~ 
become the most promising politician in modern Chicago history because he knew who to go to for speech lessons, and when to say he'd been defeated. And it is through his tenacity and integrity as state's attorney ofthe State of Illinois that Richie Daley has secured the admiration and respect of blacks and whites who may very well elect him mayor in 
19!-1-:'. 
P. 0. Box Q  
mature Sorin Seven who found fun in damag­To Fr. Porterfield ing hall property and hazing hall residents'  
There are many other examples of howDear Father Dtll'e: Sorin llalllife has improved since 19...,!-1 thatI am writing to thank you for the time and are fresh in the minds of Sorinites as well asenergy that you devoted to the men of Sorin as other Notre Dame students and rectors. InCollege. It is not my intention to dramatize this process of improving community lifeyour resignation as rector or to gloss over vou, Father Dave, have heen an integralthe growing pains that we all experienced catalyst.together over the years. lloweve the facts l 1pon your resignation, the _aforemen­speak for themselves. In an unprecedented tioned facts should explain why I am com­appointment, as a deacon you were pelled to say good-hve and thank you. Thankentrusted with the then precarious position you for all you have done for the dorm andof Sorin Hall rector. Upon your resignation, the people that I love so much. But thanksyou remain Sorin Hall's second most especially for being in the community'stenured rector next to Pop Farley. You have midst as student, teacher, counselor, rector,brought continuity and stability to Sorin and priest. To combine those respon­Hall. sibilities would be a difficult thing tor anyThe change in the physical appearance of experienced woman-m<)n to do. Your spe­the dormitory from 19'78-1983 parallels the cial courage is that you grew into yourattitude change of the Sorinites who dwell priesthood in our midst. I hope that the meninside the 95-year-old structure. Of course, of Sorin have been able to help you as youthe improved Sorin liturgies, the elegant have them.mauve hallways with burgundy carpets, and Best wishes for your success in the yearsthe recently competitive Sorin football team to come. I feel confident that the entireare not all solely your accomplishments. :'llotre Dame community as well as Sorin Hall However, ask yourself, would the University will benefit from your continued work in thepump almost S I million into a renovation Admissions Office. project if the dormitory community still Jim Rigali_£~edged its allegiance to the likes of the im­ "We'll all get along just fine"  


News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide
Editorial Board 
News Editor.................................Mark Worscheh 
Editor-in-Chief............................David Dziedzic
Box Q, Notre Dame, /.V '-1655fi 
Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe Department Managers
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni-\ 
Executive Editor..............................Paul McGinn
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect · 
Production/Graphics...........Joseph Musumeci Business Manager....... ........ Daniel O'Hare
the policies of the administration of eitlter institution. The news is reported as ac­
Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi Controller ............................................Alex Szilvas 
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Saint Mary's Editor...............Anne Monastyrski Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Photo Editor.......................................Scott Bower Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. (219) 239-5303 Founded November 3,1966 
Ill .,.i.. ~ 
.__ 

-~-----------~~ 
Not your ordinary crazy 
"Whythe heck would any idiot name a column 
'Looking In''" 
A friend asked this ofme while we were staringat the ceilingofmy room. I tried to impress upon him the fact that just any idiot probably wouldn't, and that that is quite the best reason I could think of. I consider myself a very special sort ofidiot, one of a dying breed who nurture their idiocy and strive ttl raise it to the level of art. 
"You're crazy, you know that don't you?" 
Joe musumeci 
looking in 
I stared at him blankly. Well, if someone as subnor­mally perceptive as you has figured it out, I was tempted to blurt out, ofcourse I have been aware for some time now. After all, I have to live with this lunacy day in and day out. But it doesn't bother me when people tell me I'm crazy, or go to ridiculous ends to avoid meeting me on the quad. An acquaintance, upon realizing that she might actually have to share the route to a class with me for about one hundred yards, once ducked into the travel agency in Badin as I approached and emerged with a flight plan that would take her to the ROTC build­ing by way of Denver. I remained unflustered. 
Because, you see, I am afraid. In his article Monday, Marc Ramirez mentioned several phobias that had grabbed his paranoid fancy. He left out the one that has haunted me as long as I can remember (and that's several weeks). 
Statusquophobia. 
I live in constant and vehement fear of being "normal," ofwaking up one day and looking at myselfin the mirror and seeing the same person I saw the day before, less perhaps a few more millimeters of hairline. Always I am aware that I should be growing and learn­ing more about this silly place we call home, and the sil­ly person that lives there, which most ofus call"me." So when I start to feel that I am somehow fitting into a mold prescribed by something that Ihave been before, I create artificial selves that can constantly change with­out running the risk ofbecoming overpowering. Unfor­tunately, all these little selves stem from the basic stuff of which I am already made, and therefore have an im­mediate disadvantage; the basis of their existence is in­trinsically dull. 
All these sundry thoughts passed like lethargic llamas through my mind while my friend waited for an answer to his question ... 
It suddenly occurred to me that my craziness and my writing are very closely intertwined. Whenever I need something to write about, I find that being certifiably certfiable has distinct benefits as far as coming up with material is concerned. And whenever I need something really stupid to do, just to break the monotony ofdoing simply dumb things, my writing is a ready font ofideas for creative stupidity. But in the midst ofall the crazi­ness and pseudo-Platonic imagery that regularly traffics through the oatmeal I pass offas a mind, there is a cal­ming influence involved in taking the time to peek inside and commit ideas to permanency on paper. I like to think that by collating the views and images I form, I can somehow reach out and show others what they are feeling to. "Looking In" becomes, in a sense, reaching out. 
You're crazy, you know ...? 
Yes, I know, I told him, but there's a good reason for it. I explained that I was in fear oflosing myself in the person that I was trying to become while, at the same time, I wanted to help other people come to grips with the lunatic that lives in all of us, making us all very spe­cial and unique fools in our own right. I also explained that I was afraid I was becoming a very boring person. 
My friend assuaged my worries bv falling promptly and deeply asleep. An hour later, he awoke, refreshed, "What was that you were saying, Joe?" 
He seemed surprised to find that he had been gagged, bound, and inserted into my latest column without beingcredited with so much as a name. Some ofthe best writers around may be crazy, but all the good crazies are writers. 
'Outsiders' should stay there 
Coppola has stated that he wanted
F
rancis Ford Coppola's, The Out­class conflict in Tulsa, circa early to endow these teenage characterssiders, is a major disappointment. 1960s. The "greasers" are blue­with "heroic proportions," and doesWhile watching this film I found collar, wrong-side-of-the-tracks he ever. At times, though, the techni­myself repeatedly drifting into a types antagonized by their preppy, cal flourishes seem a bit out ofplace.
state of incredulity. (Could this be rich-kid counterparts, the "socs" (as The screenplay contains an inor­the same director who gave us The in "socialites"). The result is a sort of dinate amount of maudlin
Godfather I and II. The Cmwersa­homogenized West Side Story sans 
philosophizing (i.e. "someday we'll
tion. andApoca~vpse Nou• I) The song and dance. The Outsiders, 
find a world where greasers and socsfilm has many problems, not the however, never realizes a balance can live together in peace"); when
between the sappy and the gritty, a 
the camera endorses this nonsense
balance necessary for it to succeed
Pat mulligan 
on such a grand ~calc The Outsiders
in its genre. Instead we get what 
comes across as little more than an
seems to be a Walt Disney version of 
exercise in self-effacement. 
Rebel Without a Cause.
movie review Undeniably, Coppola is a master­
Three "greasers" in particular are 
ful stylist; the slick cinema technics least ofwhich is Coppola's ever­foisted upon us as emblematic 
of his "electronic" tllm making are 
growing penchant for overstate­figures. Poneybov Curtis (C. 
quite impressive. When the look ofa ment. Apparently Coppola believes Thomas Howell) is an orphaned 
production takes precedence over 
he is capable of transforming an delinquent who ti:ars his older the imaginative substance of the adolescent novel into a profound brother may place him in a juvenile tllm, however. a director is in cinematic achievement. He is not. home. Johnny Cade (Ralph Mac­trouble. The razzle-dazzle visuals of 
While the lighting, camera work, chio) plays an unwanted kid, 
Tbe Outsiders thus peversely negate
and pictorial composition are ex­harassed and oppressed by his the "heroic proportions" ofthe tremely well-crafted, the subject drunken parents. And Dallas "greasers;" these characters look matter ofthe film is altogether facile. Winston (Matt Dillon) is the typical puny and insignit1cant against the Whether Coppola's high opinion of leather clad anti-hero, unwilling to backdrops created by Coppola'shis own talents has affected his criti­bear the guns, knives, and chains of electronic wizardry.
cal sensibilities one cannot say. Yet outrageous misfortune. The young A comparative viewing ofThe that is just the feeling one gets after actors who portray these figures are 
Outsiders with another recent 
sitting through the two hours of a talented lot, especially Dillon.. 
release, Peter Weir's Tbe Year of melodrama and mannerism which Regrettably, the lines which they are 
LivingDangerous~}', may shed some 
constitute The Outsiders. forced to speak and act out are for 
light on the importance ofintertwin­The film is based on a book by S.E. the most part embarrassingly sen­ingtext with technics. In Weir'stllm,Hinton and tells the story ofteen-age timental. 

the talk ranges from Plato to Tolstoy to Eastern mysticism. Coppola, on the other hand, deals in Margaret Mead and Robert Frost. "Stay gold" becomes the annoying catch-phrase ofThe Outsiders, and Coppola ex­
smetd 1?00@ @J!S&J]J?J 
(1A 'VAH 1) 
acerbates the situation by shading the actors in yellow light. Whereas Weir successfully integrates the philosophical with the visual, Cop­pola overdoes the visual aspects in an attempt to cover-up the thinness of the script. 
Poor Coppola. He probably still has a number offine tllms left in him, but in view ofhis recent debacles, (One from the Heart, and now The Outsiders) a long vacation some· 
... ... 
_....aMty"'iW .. 
» 
WAR is best yet 
hen a rock band finds its home in Dublin, !;eland, it's hard to 
W ignore the subject of war. And when three members ofthe 
four-piece band claim to be charismatic Catholics and state that 
salvation is found within Christianity, it becomes especially difficult 
to ignore. 
War is the answer Irish new-wavers, U2 have fitted to this par­ticular dilemma. It is an album which centers upon a mood that is more pleading than political. U2, represented by lead singer Bono, sings from a first person perspective allowing the listener to feel em­pathy toward U2's own personal problems and personal solutions. 
For the amount of polish which has gone into the group's perfor­mance and production since their first album, Boy, the level of sincere energy which has been transcribed to vinyl is amazing. Bono's vocals have become downright accessible; The Edge's guitars are crisp yet free; Adam Clayton's bass retains its subtle drive; and 
Dennis Chalifour 
record review 
Larry Mullen's drumming is truly spirit-filled. The rock and roll, 
through Steve Lilywhite's mostly unintrusive production, gets 
hooked right up to the listener's spinal cord. 
The album opens with "Sunday Bloody Sunday" which is sort ofa microcosm of the theme of the album, set to a double-time marshall beat. "Sunday," is a driving anthem which twists the violence ofwar into the uselt,sness of war from a Christian perspective, "The real battle just begun/To claim the victoryJesus won/ On a Sundav bloody Sunday." · 
"Seconds" follows with a pop-influenced beat and tick-tacking 
rhythm guitar that eases the listener into nuclear awareness. There is 
somethingofthe tip ofa hat to the Clash in this song; its sound seems 
straight offofLondon Calling. yet it holds up in comparison to any­
thing on that album. 
The hallmark of the album is "New Year's Day," a subtle and hyp­
notic tune that will latch into the head ofanyone giving more than a 
moment's listen. This song, with its tucked away piano and 
deceptive hooks, may be the most musically interesting song l'2 has 
ever produced. "New Year's Day" is a testament to faith and an ex­
ample ofthe distortions one perceives in the world through a Chris­
tian perspective. While the lyrics describe personal and political 
strife through imagery, the mood is wrought most forcefully through 
musical articulation. 
"Like a Song" takes another angle on the theme. creating a power­
ful drive through alliterative imagery. It is probably the most 
preachy ofany of the cuts, but Bono's vocal despair overcomes any 
pretensions. This is followed by "Drowning Man." which completes 
the first side with an acoustically driven hom_age to the power of 
faith. An electric violin runs through the entire piece lending ad­
hesive to the theme ofdivine power. Larry Mullen's guitars are won­
derfully subdued almost to the point ofbeing subliminal. 
Side one is a hard act to follow and the band seems to lose some of 
their stride on the reverse side. "The Refugee" starts the program off 
strong, a salsa-heat concoction ofhuman images involved within the 
violence ofwar. I can only wish that guest producer, Hill Whilan, 
might have let the vocals go a bit hotter as it is the repeat~ng war 
chorus blends in too well with the war imagery. 
"Two Hearts Beat as One" is a lovely little love ~ong.directed, I 
presume, to Bono's new bride. Except for a humorous heart-beating 
rap, the song seems little more than filler. The almost grotesquely 
over-produced "Red Light," which utilizes snappy mid-seventies 
harmonies and doesn't work ensues. 
The album regains stride with "Surrender," a song with an 
interesting beat which switches the mood to the third person mode. 
The tone is cinematic and the overly-lush vocals work in a haunting 
sort ofway. 
"240" caps off the album in an almost literary restatement of the theme. Adeceptively mellow Adam Clayton steers the tune with a strong bass line as Bono repeats,"How long must we sing this song?" There is a tone ofanticipation and hopefulness that closes the piece quite nicely. 
War might very well be U2's strongest work to date. It also seems to mark the band's emergence into the FM mainstream. Introducing "New Year's Day" in concert, Bono states, "I want to make a new year's prediction. I believe this non-stick wall-paper music is tlnished and I believt> that fashion is out offashion." Given a chance, 

The Observer Sports Extra-Building a program in the MCC Wednesday, March 30, 1983 -page 10 
I. 
' 


Irish try to regain form, match last year's successful season
t 
The pitching should be good. The Irish return eight ofits top nine pitchers. The team had a 3.81 E.R.A. (earned run ·average )last year.
After getting off to bad start, Gallo and 
The top three starters are seniors Bill Matre and Steve Whitmver and junior Mark Clementz. . ' In the young season, Matre is 1-2 with a 3.32 E.R.A. He was 6-'i and
players try to overcome inexperience 
sported a 3.32 E.R.A. last season. Matre has 13 strikeouts in 19 in­"We have a problem at all nine positions, defensive­
nings of work. He has had problems with control, though. Matre has
By NEAL SMITH ly," continued Gallo. "It just seems like it is a different 
walked 12 batters this year after walking 39 in 55 innings last year. 
Sports Writer 
Whitmyer has a record of 0-3 and a E.R.A. of 5.41 after going 2-4
i• position everyday. It (the poor defense) is very con­with a 5.10 E.R.A. last season. He has IS strikeouts and eight walks in
tagious. 17 innings ofpitching.
In a number ofways, this year's Irish baseball team is 
"You've got to make the play when the ball is hit right The lefty Clementz has a spotless 8-0 record while in his third yearquite different from"last year's 28-15 team. 
at you. You've got to pick the ball up and throw people ofpitching for Notre Dame. Two ofhis victories have come this year. 
•Notre Dame returns only three of its regular eight 
out. The good teams that play very sound defense don't Clementz has a _>,.32 E.R.A. in the early season. His E.R.A. last season starters from last year -right fielder Rick Chryst, make great plays, they make the play, the routine play. If was 1.51. Clementz leads the team in innngs pitched ( 21 ), strikeoutscatcher Phil Dingle, and second baseman jack Moran. 
you don't do that, you're in big trouble.
•The team is presently 3-11. At this point in the ( 16 ) and base on balls (13 ).
"Ifyou prolong the inning, prolong the batting order,
season last year the team was 7-7. 
give them four outs, you're not going to win. It is as team does not come close to matching last year's fine lin. Conlin had a 0.85 E.R.A. in 31 innings last year. However, due to a •Probably the biggest difference is the fielding. The The top reliever this season was expected to be junior Tom Con­
simple as that," stated Gallo. "We're giving people four, defensive team, which finished with the 12th best field­sore arm, he has not been pitching of late. Before the injury, Conlin
five, six outs (an inning). We beat ourselves. ing percentage in the nation. It has already committed appeared in two games. He lost both games and has an E. R.A. of

"You need defense and pitching to win. I would have 34 errors in 14 games this year, while last year, the team 16.20.
liked to have thought that prior to the season that our pitching and defense would be good," said Gallo. "The
had only 47 errors in its 43 games. 
Offensively, seniors Dingle and Chryst and sophomore Moran are
pitching's been good.... It's the damn defense. I don't
"We played against 18 players. We played against the returning starters.
care what type of pitching you're going to get, what
nine of ourselves and nine of the other team," com­Dingle is the number one catcher. Of the three Irish catchers, he
kind ofhtting you get, you're not going to win (with our
mented third-year coach Larry Gallo after a recent has the most experience and the strongest arm. Right behind Dinglekind ofdefense)."
three-game trip in which the team had I 3 errors. 
are sophomores David Clark and Mike Doming. 
Dingle, who batted .302 all oflast season, is presently batting .154. Doming (who has a .313 batting average) and Clark (a . 1 1 5 average) each have one ofthe team's four home runs. 
Moran, the lead-off hitter, is currently second on the team in runs, hits, stolen bases, runs batted in ( RBis) and total base hits. The 5-5 second baseman is just one RBI shy of his total of seven last year. Moran is batting .261, compared to .223 last year. 
The leader of almost all the offensive categories (a total of 11 out of 14 departments) is Chryst, the captain of the team. Chryst is presently batting .298 after hitting .277last year and .341 as a sopho­more. 
A person sure to be in the line-up is centerfielder Steve Passinault. Gallo has come out and flatly said, "Steve's our centerfielder." Pas­sinault is batting .167 and has a keen eye at the plate. He has walked I I times, almost double that ofanyone else. 
The other outfield position seems to be up for grabs between Casey Snyder, Mike Trudeau, and Henry Lange. "We're just waiting for one to step forward and win the job," commented Gallo. "They don't have experience. I'm sure one of them will come forward." Lange is batting .333, Snyder .222, and Trudeau .125. 
At first base, it appears as though junior Carl Vouno has the job. However, he is batting .194. Gallo remarked, "He's proven that he can be a very good hitter, but he hasn't hit well this year as ofyet. I'm sure he'll come out of it." 
Sophomore jason Schomer has seen the majority of the action at shortstop. He has committed six errors and is currently batting only .040 in 25 at-bats. Gallo added that Schomer twill probably get some work at third base. 
At third base is juniorJim Dee. Dee has committed seven errors at the hot corner. He has a tightening shoulder and is batting .1 76. 
• Gallo 
"We're at a point where a lot of schools, like the Hig Ten Ifyou have not tigured it out, Larry Gallo is a very down-to­
c'ontinuedfrom page 16 
schools, are pouring money into their baseball programs," ex­earth, realistic person. It is something that comes from his out to the school and talked to Tom Kelly who asked me to plains Gallo. "There's a big push and college baseball is years as a baseball player and coach and has rubbed off on his becoming popular." players.
help out with the baseball team. It wasn't a paid position, but Where does his team fit into the picture if it does not get the "Baseball players are very realistic, generally, because I feel that didn't matter. In a matter of ten days, I !lew out to the financial backing like some of the other schools? it is the hardest sport to make it to the top," Gallo explains. 
~chool. tlew back. packed my car, and was out here." "You can be a team of not many superstars and still have a "During the summer, I work with kids in the Cape Cod sum­
The baseball program has been on the upswing ever since as good team," Gallo says in reference to his scholarship-poor mer league who have been drafted. The league is better than
its tlrst 20-win season in more than 20 years coincided with roster. "We put in a lot of time and effort and as long as they Class A. It lets me see both ends of the spectrum.
Gallo's arrival. In fact, the 1980 team's total of 29 wins is a learn something about the game and about themselves, I've "Here at Notre Dame," he goes on, "the kids are
school record. 
done my job." academically-oriented and realize that baseball will be over
When Kelly decided to move to an administrative post after It is at this point that Gallo's Irish team differs from many of after tour years. At Cape Cod, players are sometimes idealists
the 1980 season, Gallo was asked to take over the team. its opponents. Because ofthe tough academic requirements of and think that they can make the pros. When they don't, they
Seasons of 23 and 28 wins have been the result. 
the school and the dearth of scholarships, the typical Notre have nothing to do. Our players are prepared very well in life 
"'It was a case ofbeing in the right place at the right time," he Dame baseball player is an athlete with more important things to make a living after baseball."
says. "But I had paid my dues. I had been an assistant at Rhode on his mind than moving on to the pros. It would seem that Larry Gallo has a good reason not to do
Island for six years." "The type ofstudent-athlete at Notre Dame is gifted," says well. He does not use any excuses, though, and will never
There has been an obvious growth in the program as the Gallo. "The reason they come here is f(>r the academics. At reach the point that losing does not affect him. He will not rest
~quad now plays a schedule comparable to those of the top some colleges, the players use the college as a means for an until he reaches the top.
Tl: .msin the country. Considering that the team gives so few athletic end -to prepare themselves for pro ball. It's different "No one likes to win more than I d.Q," he says. "If you
~cholarships, it would seem almost suicidal to play such a here. I always make a statement that, if a lot of the schools we weren't supposed to win, they wouldn't keep score. I'd like to
tough schedule. Once again. Gallo has a very realistic reason. played hacl our acade-nic requirements. it would be hard for think that the program has come a considerable way, but I'm
"We've upgraded the schedule, but we've held our own," us to tlnd much competition. striving to make it better. Three years docs not a programhe says. "Baseball's a funny game. The old cliche about a team "Sometimes it gets difticult about coaching players who are make, so we have to keep it going. After a de..::ade or so, then
being able to beat another on any given day is more true in not planning on moving on to the pros, but I'm realistic. you can look back.
baseball than anything. 
Sometimes when I come back from Cape Cod in the summer "I have three goals. I want to make the (Midwestern City)
"Playing a tough schedule is the only way that I can attract (where he coaches some of the best college athletes), I get a conference tournament, I want to win 20 gamc:s again, and I
good ballplayers. If I don't have the tlnancial wherewithal to little frustrated. But I realize that the kids here can't do some want to go to the NCAA's. It's possihle with a tremendous
;,uract them, I have to offer some good competition. 
things. amount of hard work and desire."
"Being realistic, you don't want to get hammered," he con­"There seems to be more emphasis on baseball at other Larry Gallo demands hard work of his players and gets as
tinues. But I'm a tirm believer that vou may take lumps early schools," he adds. "Still, we had one kid last year, Dan Szajko, much out of them as he can. He has shown them how to win,
with a young team, but the team should improve from the 
who went to the pros and had a good year in Class A ball. but his definition of winning is more than scoring more runs
experience. We could tlnd a schedule that we could run it up What's nice about the kids here is that whenever a kid like Dan than the opponent.
against, but we want the kids to play good competition." signs, he always has something to fall back on if he doesn't "My competitive nature is sometlung that I pass on to my
Recently, Gallo has been trying to keep up with the rapid make it." players. I tell them they have to be them~lves and learn to
growth that has been occurring in college baseball. More and While it is hard for Gallo to judge how successful he has meet challenges head on. I also tell them that, if you tried your
more players who would have normally skipped college to been by the number ofplayers he has sent to the pros, he does hardest, you can say you're a winner. whether you won or
play in the minor leagues are now realizing that they can go to have another gauge he can use. lost."
college and then jump into a high level ofpro ball. While other "The biggest success rate ofall is the tact that every one of Larry Gallo has met the challenge of producing a successful
schools are aiding their programs tlnancially, Notre Dame has my players has graduated," says Gallo. "I'm rt:ally proud ofthe baseball program head on -and has produced a winner.
not done so. 

Wednesday, March 30, 1983 -page 11
The Observer Sports Extra-Building a program in the MCC 

Mark Clementz 
MCC boosts smaller sports 
Several minor sports attempt to gain national exposure through conference 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
If any major complaint about Notre Dame athletics is 
unarguably true, it is the fact that Notre Dame really has .few nationally-recognized sports. Football and basket­ball have always drawn a lot ofpress, while Mike DeCic­co's fencing squad is also recognized as one of the best in the nation. Hockey has also made a lot of news, but the reason for the publicity was the dropping of the program. 
Beyond this, however, the other smaller programs 
have wallowed in near-obscurity. This was not the fault 
of the coaches and usually was no reflection on the 
players, but was, rather, the result ofthe athletic depart­
ment's status as an independent. 
"Face it, the days of the independent are gone," says Notre Dame baseball coach Larry Gallo, one of the people most responsible for solving the problem. "We 
(the smaller, non-revenue sports) can survive only be­cause ofthe exposure ofbasketball and football." 
Gallo, with a lot ofcooperation from Athletic Direc­tor Gene Corrigan, decided that the name "Notre Dame" could only get his baseball team so far and began working on a plan to join a new conference -the Mid­western City Conference-that a number ofthe small­er programs could also join. 
Why would a conference solve the problems of the minor sports? lt all comes down to getting publicity so that Notre Dame will earn the reputation ofbeing more than a football-basketball school and will be able to at­tract talented recruits. 
And there is no better way to gain publicity than to compete in an NCAA post-season tournament. The problem has been that the lesser-known teams like baseball, golf, and tennis have been unable to gain a berth because most of the bids go to conference cham­pions. There are so few slots open to independents that it means a great deal to have a good reputation. 
Here is the Catch-22. In order to get a good reputa­tion, a team needs the exposure of a national tourna­ment. But, if reputation gets you into the tournament ... In other words, the smaller sports were in a no-win situation. 
"We had no choice but to join a conference," said 
Gallo. "NCAA baseball, as far a a post-season tourna­
ment is concerned, is conference-oriented. Out of a 
possible 36 teams that go to the regional tournament, 
24 automatically qualify. Not only the conference win­
ner goes, though. The second-place team gets a bid a lot 
oftimes." 
Gallo saw that, unless he did something, the baseball 
program thai: he was trying to build did not have much 
ofa future. 
"We were going nowhere fast and I knew that the 
department's emphasis on baseball wasn't great. It 
seemed apparent to me that we wouldn't get an at-large 
berth. 
DETROIT 
The Titans 
1 
Bob Miller 19th year (430-322) 1983 record: 4-5 
5EVANSVILLE The Aces 
Jim Brownlee 4th year(64-110-2) 1983 record: 10-8-1 
NOTRE DAME 2 The Fighting Irish 
Larry Gallo 3rd year (54-42-1) 1983 record: 3-11 
ST. LOUIS 
6 
The Billikens 
Lyle Reuss 5th year (79-1 06) 1983 record: 4-7 
BUTLER XAVIER3 The Bulldogs 4 The Musketeers 
Gordon Vetorino 
Scott Neat 5th vear (107-83-1) 
9th year (163-155-2) Two-time MCC rt.!nners-up 
1983 record: 3-8 1983 record: 8-9 
7 
ORAL ROBERTS 8 OKLAHOMA CITY The Titans The Chiefs 
Larry Cochell Mike Boulanger 7th year (269-99-1) 2nd year (43-38) Two-time MCC champions 1983 record: 15-12
Currently No.2 in nation 1983 record: 23-7 
"So I got together with the coach at Oral Roberts, whom I'm good friends with, and we talked about the pos~ibility ofjoining the conference. I brought the idea to Gene Corrigan and, about two years later, we got the thing going. 
"You got to give Mr. Corrigan a lot ofcredit," he goes 
on. "He wanted to give the "minor" sports something to 
play tor." 
The MCC is not really the "baseball conference" that it has been accused of being (in fact, it was created for basketball -except that Notre Dame was not part of it), but it appears that, ofall the sports that are included in the conference -baseball, track, golf, and men's ten­nis -baseball could benefit the most. There will not be an automatic tournament bid to the conference cham­pion, but there is a good chance that the conference will get an automatic bid next year ifthe selection com­mittee feels its competition and win-loss record war­rant the bid. 
"We've got as good a chance as any of making the tournament," Gallo says. "'I'll guarantee that the winner of the conference will have a good record, and that it will get a bid. 
"It gives the players something to play for. There is a conference tournament and it's appealing to kids we're recrt,~iting that, each year, we could go to the NCAA's." 
The way that the eight-team conference has been aligned should help the Notre Dame chances within the division. It has been divided into two four-team divi­sions -North and South -and the Irish will play in the North. The divisional rivals are Butler, Xavier, and Detroit. Oral Roberts, the second-ranked team in the country, Oklahoma City, which also has a respected program, St. Louis University, and Evansville form the Southern division. The top two teams in each division go to the conference tournament to decide "Detroit has a good team this year, Xavier is coming around, and Butler is very com­petitive," says Gallo about the new rivals. ''I'd like to think that us and Detroit would be the top two finishers, but we're going to have to play very well -better than we're playing now." 
While Larry Gallo has got to be happy about the new conference, he is not the only coach at Notre Dame who i!>. Noel O'Sullivan, the Notre Dame golfcoach, was ecstatic at the thought ofhavinga reasonable chance for an NCAA tournament bid. 
"Now we have a shut at the tournament," says O'Sullivan. "With this as motivation, it (a tournament bid) is an objective, not just a goal. The players realize that they are no longer reaching for a star. 
"We're talented enough to be conference cham­pions. It helps out recruiting because of the exposure that the tournament offers the recruits." 
Already, Joe Piane's track team has benefited from new conference. During the winter, the Irish hosted the MCC Indoor Championships and won going away. 
Now, Gallo and his baseball team will try to benefit from the conference as it begins its MCC season against Xavier on Monday with a doubleheader on Kline Field. 
While it may seem unusual that any Notre Dame team is a member of a conference, get used to it. Because, if the smaller sports at Notre Dame are going to continue the Notre Dame athletic tradition that was started by football, it is going to be a result oftheir membership in a conference. 

... ,r_.._.....,~-----..., --·---~-----~--""---""'""-~-_,,..._,_ ~-~..,--.,,__.......,.,. -.-...~-,..--,~-------..-----~· -··-----------", ~·-...... ______ ,.,. ' ~ ..... ·-.-...,. .-...~-• 
~jb()~S~t~l;~~i~~~;S~======~===================W==ed=n=es=d=ay=,M==ar=ch=3=0=,=19=8=3==p=a=ge===l2 

BY lhe lJbsen•er and '/he As.wcia/etl Press 
The Saint Mary's softball team will open its 
season against the Notre Dame softball club on April S at Notre Dame. The home opener for the Belles will take place on April ~ when the team will square off against Valparaiso. -The Obseruer 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club will hold a meeting 
this evening at 6:30 in the boathouse. The club will discuss lessons and the upcoming Regattas at the meeting. All new members are welcome. -The Obsen1er 
The Women's Bookstore Tournament still has a limited amount of spaces remaining. If you would like to sign up, call 6885 today. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's track teamwill be 
participating in the S.E. :vlotion Relays at Cape Girardeau. :vlo. on Saturday, April 2. -The Obsen•er 
The Notre Dame golfteam lead by Frank Leyes 
will face Valpariaso at home tomorrow. Tomorrow·~ match will be followed by encounters against Olivet. Tri-State. Xavier and Hall State. the latter to be played at Hall State. -The Obsen•er 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team ptays the 
:vlichigan Lacrosse Club at "" this evening before traveling to C. W. Post for a Saturday encounter. -The Ohseruer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team will 
play at Purdue tomorrow. at Indiana State on Friday and home on Easter Sunday against Iowa. The team will then travel to Ohio State to play the Buckeyes on :vlonday. April 4 when it faces Ohio State. ­
The Ohsen•er 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team 
which is,coming offa 2-3 spring trip at Hilton Head will face Eastern :vlichigan University tomorrow morning at H in Ypsilanti. :vlich. Af. terwards the team will head to East Lansing for its match with :vlichi­gan State at 6:00p.m. Other upcoming matches are :vlichigan (noon Saturday), Morehead State (Sunday), and Northwestern (April 6 at Notre Dame). All the schools the team will face are Division I except :vlorehead State. a team that is currently the best midwestern Divi­sion II school. -The Ohserl'er 
Irish club sports begin to blossom 
Spring has finally arrived at Notre Dame -at least it has according to the calendar. Despite the snow and cold. many of the Notre Dame club sports have started their spring programs. 
RUGBY-After an outstanding ~-0-1 record last fall. the Notre Dame Rugby team won its match 2-1 against a tough South Side Irish team last Sunday in Chicago. Notre Dame won the A and H games 19-1 ~ and 30-1 2 respectively, hut lost the C game I 0-1 S. 
John Reid scored two ties worth four points apiece for the A team. while Sean :vladden scored two ties for the Hteam. "I believe that thb game is a good indication of how we will do this season because it was one of the toughest games we will play this season," said club president Sean Sullivan. 
Notre Dam~: competed in sev~:ral mat<:hes in Florida over the spring break. The A team defeated :vliami 13--i and Fort Lauderdale 9-~. However later in the week. the Irish were unable to advance in a tournament held at Pensacola. 
"All in all, Florida was a good trip, although we did lose senior :vlike Coonev due to a broken cheekbone," said Sullivan. "That was a had brt:ak for him and for us." 
Sullivan anticipates a victory over Ohio State as Notre hosts the Buckeyes this weekend. This game will clarify how the Irish should fare in the :vlidwest l'niversity Championships to be held in late April. "Right now. our main goal is to win the midwestern championship," commented Sullivan. 
SOFTBALL -Due to the wonderful wet weather that graced Indiana last weekend. the women's softball team was forced to cancel its game against Indiana l 1ni­versity. Club president Chris Callahan remained op­timistic about this season and hopes to claim a minimum of 16 victories. "I believe we have a solid team with good depth that works well together," remarked Callahan. 
This is an important season for the Irish because it is 
Notre Dame's first year of competing the in the NCAA, 
and the team hopes to gain varsity status in the near 
future. "Right now, we can only hope for varsity status," 
said Callahan. ''I'd like to be able to say that we'll get it 
next year, but no official word has come down yet." 
Weather permitting, Notre Dame will open its season 
against Saint Mary's College on April 5. Last season, the 
Irish won three of the four games they played against 
the Belles. "Saint Mary's is our classic rivalry and we 
should beat them," commented Callahan. 
SAILING -Last weekend, the Notre Dame sailing 
team captured first place in the annual Freshman 
Icebreaker Regatta held at Notre Dame last weekend. 
The purpose of the Regatta was to develop the skills of 
the freshmen sailor.•; and to expose them to the world of 
Mary Sieger 
Sports Writer 
Club Corner 

competitive collegiate sailing. 
This year. the sailing club has a solid corp offreshmen 
sailors. Club president ].B. Kuppe was pleased with the 
results of this weekend's Regatta and the performances 
of the freshmen. "We have a promising future with 
promising freshmen and we are really looking forward 
to our season." commented Kuppe. 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALl. -Notre Dame's men's vol­
leyball club dropped its match 2-3 against lll-PU, Fort 
Wayne but advanced to the semi-final round at a tourna­
ment held at Ball State University last weekend. The 
Irish are SS-17 this season and are ranked in first place 
in the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Association. 
The Irish are preparing for the league championship 
tournament which will be held in April. Club president 
Clark Gibson is optimistic about the season and expects 
to win the championship. "We've been waiting for this 
for about four years," said Gibson. "We're fired up and 
ready to win," he added. 
WOMEN'S TRACK -Over the weekend, the Notre Dame women's track club ran against Purdue Univer­sity. Although the Irish did not score any points at the meet, some ofthe runners personal goals were reached. The team has been plagued by injuries this season, but it 
should recover in time for the Little State :vleet on April 30. 
ROWING -On March 19, the Notre Dame rowing club captured third place at its first race in Austin. Texas. "I felt that we could have done better because we had a pretty good chance to take second place." reflected club president jim Feider. 
Notre Dame's men rowers will face Lincoln Park Uni­
versity, Northwestern University and the University of 
Chicago's co-ed crew on April 9. The women's crew 
will compel~ against the University of Michigan on 
April I 0. Feider believes that the results of that 
weekend's competition will serve as an in 1dication of 
how the team will fare at the Midwest Sprints on April 
30. 
After two years of dedicated fund raising, the rowing club will receive a new boat house. Feider believes that the acquistion of the house is necessary because it will add credibility to the program and will dramatically cut transportation time. Ground breaking on the new structure should commence within the next three weeks. 
Classified office hours: Notre Dame -9 
a.m. to 4 30 p.m. Sa1nt Mary's -noon to 3 p.m. Deadline for next-day servtce is 3 p.m. All ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. We reserve the right to edt! objectionable
Classifieds 
material. 
NOTICES  Who lost a gold bracelet on thrs campus? Call Rock at xt208  Need rrde to Monroe. Ml for t::aster' 8602  FOR SALE  HOW DO f FEAR THEE? LET ME COUNT THE WAYS I HAVE NOTHING TO FEAR BUT FEAR ITSELF  LEWIS HALL LIMERICKS There was a young wench from Oh10 Who danced every weekend wrth a sm11e-o A formal a  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYOING VERY REASONABLE RATES CALL287·5t62 Typrng ALL KINDS 277-8534 aher 6pm Experrenced Typost. Mrs Bedford. 288­2107 Hours Mon thru Fn 6 am to 5 pm  LOST IN ENGINEERING BUILDING My sanrty as well as a biue Eddre Bauer down Jacket. Whereabouts last known Wednes­day. March 23 Please call thiS clueless technocrat at x693t LOST--parr of blue pumps. aher St Ed s Formal Were you at post-formal celebra­tron on 9\h floor? Drd you prck up my shoes by mrstake?!! 1 have yours I like them better. but they are the wrong srze Please call and trade back before Easter' LIZ x6825  2 RIDES NEEDED TO ST PAUL. MN FOR EASTER CALL 4t73 OR 4t90 AT SMC NEED RIDE TOFT WAYNE FOR EAS· TER CAN LEAVE THURS NOON PLEASE CALL KATIE 284-5515 Need someone capable of translat1ng Japanese to enough techn1cal docu­ments. W1ll pay$15 per page and have 20 or more pages to be translajed Call237· 2t46  PEAVY PA SYSTEM 6 CHANNEL POWER MIXER. 2 CABINETS. 2 MIKES. ALSO LIGHT SHOW 3555 FOR SALE: P.A. SYSTEM GOOD COND. CALL 277-0915 AFTER 10 P.M. For safe couch. charr. end-tables. stereo stand. carpets Excellent condrhon 283 -1069  SENIORS VOTE TODAY for SENIOR FELLOW, dunng lunch. North & South Drnrng Halls and Lafortune lobby Your vote counts!! Pat R Frohrches Geburtstag'!f Hope your 25th IS the best ever' Have a blast! EnJOY your day' You're a super room1e! Happy b-day sweette C1ao! Love. Adele P S Now where drd I ever learn German? EXCUSE ME. AMERICA  nrght Was her happy plight Oh. when wrll she ever slow down-o? by-Crazy Feet Too or 1-coufd-be-feafous-but-f m-not -f. thrnk SPACE...the ffnal frontier See STAR TREK II:The Wrath of Khan Wed and Thurs notes at Eg Aud Support the KofC Tl>e Observer is always ll>e Absur­ 
TYPING IN MY HOME (RESUMES. LET­TERS. REPORTS. TERM PAPERS. ETC) NEAT. ACCURATE WORK. Please help I lost 40 dollars rn the South REASONABLE RATES 233-7009 Drnnrng Hall last week. It you found rt please have prty on a poor starvrng col­Everyone os gorng CUCKOOII! ONE lege student and return rt to Dave room FLEW OVER THE CUCKOOS NEST 103 Alumnr Thanks Aprrl7,8.9 LOST: 300 WATT KUSTOM STAR TREK IL· The Wrath of Khan AMPLIFIER. REWARD IF RETURNED. Engmeenng Audronum DEFINITELY NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 7.915.t1 30 REPLY TO JAY REIDY 239-7668. Sponsored by K of C $1, members free Nrcholas·thrs r& your laundry card.r have escaped from the fe1sty ~wenches & am TYPING. J ackre Boggs. 684·8793 res1d1ng m the library 1n th t e search Jor solutions· by h01ace Judson-clue 13 LOST/FOUND I '---'_W_A_N_TE_D_____J LOST CANON AE-1 CAMERA BEFORE BREAK WILL PAY REWARD. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALL 283-1388 ASK FORAL. Need rrders for central PA t Leavrng on the evenrng of March 30 (Wednesday) CallWHY DID YOU TAKE MY GLOVES OUT Steve at 8727 OF LOCKER x151 AT MOREAU SEMI· NARY? REGARDLESS OF WHY YOU DID IT f WILL PAY THE FiANSOM Need AIDE TO PURDUE FOR EASTER BREAK. WILL SHARE $$. CALL JIMPLEASE CALL KEVIN AT 164!1 THANK 8721YOU  CAMP COUNSELORS/PROGRAM DIRECTORS wanted for prrvate Mrchrgan boys/g1r:s summer camps sw1rnm1,ng. canoemg. sa1hng. skung. sports. nflery. archery. tennrs. goff. crafts. camprng. gymnaStiCS. calligraphy. dramatics. cheerfeadrng. gurtar M Seeger. 1765 Maple. Northfield. IL 60093 Send detarls GRAD STUDENT SEEKS SAME FOR ROOMATE-HfCKORY VILLAGE.STARTfNG JUNE/CALL FRED 239-5845 A SUMMER JOB IN INDPLS MEANS I NEED TO RENT A ROOM FOR THE SUMMER. HELP ME OUT? LUCY x3433 RIDE NEEDED TO LISLE. ILLINOIS CAN.LEAVE THURS AT NOON WILL SHARE USUAL PLEASE CALL BR BENEDICT AT 3787 FOR RENT Student Rental. 5-bedroom home $420 mo 233-6779. 4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo all  FOR SALE One Used Husband Low Mrleage Wrfhng to trade for a newer model as hiS 25-year warranty exp1res today-Call277-8792 Ask for Loren TICKETS Desperately need several extra grad tckts ff you have any. PLEASE call Kevrn !late Tn Rm) at 3369 PERSONALS I need a nde to Boston for Easter break Wilhng to share costs. dnv1ng. and food Call Jeb at 8641 Thanks Need rrde to DELAWARE for break Can leave Wed Wrll share the usual Call Ed at 8639 St Edwards Hall Presents ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOOS NEST Aprrl 7.8.9 8 PM Washrngton Hall Admrssron $1 00  A Documentary Or Patnck A1ce A Rooney lnternatronally known spokesman tor so­Cial Justice & chansmat1c advocat~ for human nghts and soctal change Tomorrow-March 31. I USB Brll & John. Thanx for a great week The Fool BOB Stauffer Clod you see your messages on north dm1ng hall before the dtn1ng hall worker erased them? 1n case you dtdn t hypnotize me on tues and thurs -bunny c ltl S1s. My pleasureHI a ATTENTION HAM RADIO OPERATORS: The Notre Dame Amateur Rad1o Club w1ll hold an organrzattonal meet1ng ton1ght at 7 PM For defatIs call Derek at 8291 ATTN GIRLS You knowh1m Yu lovehtm You cant work Without h1m Corne by and · wrsh Pat Rooney a Happy Brrthday rn Room 517 Mem Lrbrary' GLENMARY HOME MISSIONS Chnstran Servrce Volunteers representative Fr John Garvey. wrll be on campus on Wed· nesday. March 30th !TODAY) to talk wrth  der!lll The Sarnt Marys Blue Mantle needs EN­THUSfASTtC.HARDWOAKING. AND MOTIVATED PEOPLE TO ASSUME NEXT YEARS EDITOR AND GENERAL STAFF POSITIONS Apphcatoons may be prcked up at the Student Actrvrtres Offrce DEADLINE Aprrl7 To the young lady wearrng red sweats and a red Fame sh1rt on Fn nrght 1n Grace s Game Room I showed you how to play Frenzy & I d srncerely hke to get to know you. Please calf Frank at t 620 EARN $5000 thrs summer parntrng houses 1n your hometown Contact Place­ment Off1ce for more mfo and apphcat1on at Room 213. Adm Bldg Happy Foots Day~! Paul Cornber!ll a cymbhst tTOTHE ALL NIGHT PARTfERSOF DIL­LON HALL KARY-N""t tome you better help me find the bathroom Mac-What an 1ncredrble tdea for a drvers1on Wrlbs-A $55 btll1n Denny s Hugh-W1II you ever be the same atte1 Sat ntghl Bro-You really should be a cornedran Ronald-You rn1ssed the funmest ntght ol your lrfe Mtke­We really drd mtSS you Sti-Never put me 1n the loh agarn Gran-Dead men tell no tales P S -Sorry about Man nrghl  
LOST HELP' My backpack and books were snarled from St Ma,..,.s d1mng hall  RIDERS NEEDED back from the Mrn­neapohs/St. Paul area aher Easter break Call Debbie at x3838  utrhtres rncluded June or Sept Call 319­322-8735 Patty Clean 3 BR Furnoshed 3 to 4 students 931  AMY LOWDEN frnrshes her student teachrng today" A1ley Hrgh School wrll never be the same If you see her out  students about the opportun1ty to serve by workrng wrth the rural people of Ap­palachoa and the South Call 239-5293 or stop by the Center for Sacral Concerns  LETS HEAR IT FOR BEAUTIFUL FRIENDS THANKS FOR YOUR SUP­PORT  
before break! Oh! How could 11 happen? REWARD Mega-bucks! call Chrrs 8174  WASHINGTON.D.C Need rrde-w1fl share usual Brran 113Q  N Notre Dame Ave Aher 5PM call 232­0535.  tomght. buy thts g1rl a well-deserved drrnk-she II be VERY thankful II  from 7 to 8 30 PM on Wednesday to meet wrth Fr Garvey  LOVE. TOMASSO  


~~-----~----~~--~------~--~ ~­
--------------·------­
Wednesday, March 30, 1983-page 13
fhe Observer 
• • . Junkie 
continued.fi"0/11 eagc 16 
A~ much as the :'IJCAA hates to ad­
mit it. college ha~ketball resembles 
the :'IJBA more now than ever before 
-and college basketball is more 
popular now than ever hefort·. What 
a coincidence. 
Here's how I see the Saturday's semit1nal matchups: 
Houston (30-2) vs. Louisville (32-3): This may he the game of the year ...that is, if the rims can survive 40 minutes of dunks. These teams, both ofwhich were in the Final Four last season. appear remarkably similar. Manv of the players come right from the playground -be it in Louisville or Houston. or Camden, 
N.J. or Lagos. Nigeria. Both teams have powerful. "don't 
mess with me. bov" front lines, al­
though the shot-blocking abilities of 
Akeem Abdul Olajuwon, Clyde 
Drexler and Larrv Micheaux should 
give the No. 1-~anked Cougars an. 
edge underneath against the Car­
dinals' Rodnev McCrav. scooter 
McCray and CharlesJone.s. 
But this game, believe it or not, 
will not 'be won under the basket. 
Louisville sprinted past Kentucky 
last Saturdav because of a stitling 
full court pres~. led by Lancaster 
Gordon and Milt Wagner. Houston's 
lack of a ball-handling guard ­
which has been evident hut hasn't 
hurt the Cougars yet in the tourna­
ment -will be lethal against the 
Cardinab. 
If the Cougars can pass the hall 
over the top the Louisville press, and 
break it. they should win. But I don't 
think they will be able to. Look for 
Louisville to take this war. and 
proceed to win the National Cham­
pionship on Monday. 
Georgia (24-9) vs. North Carolina State (24-10): Losing 
Dominique Wilkins as a hardship case to the NBA was a God-send to Georgia. Last year, wit th Dominique. the Bulldogs t1nished I9-12 and were eliminated early from the NIT after only two rounds. This year. minus Dominique, Georgia is 24-9 and playing as a team, both on of­
fense and (gasp') defense. 
N.C. State -alias "The Jim Val­vano Comedy Hour" -is the loosest team this side of the Harlem Globetrotters. Which may explain why they heat Virginia, everyone's pick for the title, to get to Albu­querque, therepy denying the overrated Ralph Sampson the na­tional championship he never deserved anyway. 
Both teams thrive on taking ill­advised shots, and have gotten this far because they've made them with 
consistency. Georgia's small front 
lin_e -6-6 James Banks, 6-7 Terry 
Fair and 6-5 Lamar Heard ­
rebounds well, but will have trouble 
containing 6-11 Thurl Bailey, State's 
leadmg scorer the last three years. 
The key to stopping the Wolfpack 
-as Notre Dame did, 43-42, in 
February -is to stop Bailey and 
hope guards Dereck Whittenberg, Sidney Lowe and Terry Gannon don't get hot from the outside. 
Against the Irish, thev didn't ­shooting only -t_>, percent -and lost. 
My opinion is that if the Bulldogs were able to control North Carolina's all-America guard Mic­hael Jordan. then they can stop State's guards. Look for Georgia to win a close one to earn the right to get killed Monday night in the finals. 
Keep in mind one thing while watching the games this weekend: If you get sick of hearing Brent Mus­hurger give his in-depth analysis (like "Houston really has an awesome front line" and "N.C. State really are the Cardiac Kids") and hearing Gary Bender say "young freshman," feel free to turn down the sound. CBS Radio also broad­casts the games. and Kentucky's Caywood Ledford does a fine job of calling the games -and, unlike Ben­der, he doesn't panic if he has a hair 
out of place. 
All of this madness culminates with the NBA Playoffs, and hopefully another Philadelphia-Los Angeles epic, beginning in a couple ofweeks. While the 82-game regular season drags, the playoffs, and the players involved, truly a.re the best as you will see. 
Enjoy it, fellow basketball heads. 
Scholastic Magazine 
is now accepting applications for the position of 
Advertising Manager 
Deadline for all applications: April 6 For more information call the Scholastic office at 239-7569. 

The Ob~erver /Scott Bower 
Saint Mary's Gail Casey, a junior, is one offour swimmers to he named to the academic all-American team. She is joined by teammates Lucy Hanahan, Angie Michie/utti and Nancy Lorenzi, all seniors. Head coach Scott Trees also bad eight ofhis swimmers earn all-American honors at the ear~v March Nationals. Those receiving the accolade were Cathy Murray, Rosie Whalen, julie Maier, Ellen Byrne, Amy Studer, Colleen Ambrose. Casev and Lorenzi. 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for ND/SMC students (S x 10 space $18.50 per month) 
CALL 259·0335 to JlESEJ\VE SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY 816 East Me Kinley 
Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
WANT TO FLY? 

If your goal is to become a professional, you owe it to yourself not to overlook any opportunities that will help you reach that goal. THE NAVY PILOT (20/20 vision is required) is the finest in the world, flying a variety of soph­isticated high performance aircraft. THE NAVAL FLIGHT OFFICER (vision correctible to 20/20) is the quarter­back of the Naval Aviation Team with wide-ranging expertise from state-of-the-art Data Processing to Master Tacti­cian. If you are a college graduate, or are within three.years of graduation, wanting to get your feet off the ground and earn over $27,000 a year within four years and attend the world's most prestigious flight school, contact or mail your resume to: 
575 N. Pennsylvania St. Office 646, Indianapolis, IN 46204
NAVAL A VIA T/ON 1-800-382-3782 

I 
I ! 
I 
~ 
' 
The Observer 
Wednesday, March 30, 1983-page 14 

,. -.-·" ,-I ~ ...,, ~ 

L/,-.-rJ ·r:.· 1.:: ,.,,.,, -. l'-' \.,..-.-' "" . . " 
"This remmder is brought to you by your fnendly ne1ghborhood yearbook staff " 
Hurry! Last day for sign-ups. Register at the Dining Halls. 
Live for God and His People as a ... 

Capuchin 
a what? 
Capuchin Franciscans are a religious fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's world. 
Join us in promoting peace, education, and justice--in ghettoes... in jails ... in soup kitchens... in parishes... in halfwa" houses... on radio and TV. 
Join us in working with and for the advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, native Americans and people of the -" .:rd World in Central America. 
Check out whe,her being a Capuchin, committed to living for God and his people, in the spirit of Francis, is for you. No obligation. Write today for more information. 
Clip and Mail Today! Father John Holly, OFM Capuchin, 1820 Mt. Elliott Avenue. Detroit, M! 48207 
Yes. send me information about the Capuchin way of lite 
Name ________________ Age ___ _ 
Cnllege ____ Address ____ 
C1ty _______ State _______ Zip. 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
.683-1959 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
2V2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 •GATESOPENALLDAYSUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
ICELANDAIR IS STILL 
YOUR BEST VALUE TO EUROPE 
,------LUXEMBOURG--
RouNoTRIP 
8489 8499 8539 
FROM FROM BALTIMORE/ FROM NEW YORK WASHINGTON CHICAGO 
Super APEX Fares. Apni1-Apnl30. 1983. 7-60 day stay, 14 day advance purchase reqUired. 
ALSO LOW COST SERVICE TO PARIS, FRANKFURT, AMSTERDAM AND NICE. AND, REMEMBER, ONLY ICELANDAIR FLIES YOU TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAND. AND INCLUDES ALL THESE EXTRAS: 
• Free deluxe motorcoach from Luxembourg to Frankfurt, Dusseldorf, Cologne, Bitburg, Mannheim, Wuppertal and Kehl, Germany. • Bargain car rentals from $99/week in Luxembourg. • Free wine with dinner, cognac after. 
lcelanda1r to Luxembourg. Luxa1r connectmg serv1ce to other destinations. (Ch1cago·M1dweek Fare.) Purchase tickets in U.S. All fares subject to change and govern_ment approval. See your travel agent or ca11800/555-1212 for the toll-free Icelandaor number m your area. 

• • . Moore 
Notre Dame as coaches generally do when 
"I've Mayed mostly in this room," he says smiling in the coaches con­ference and film room, "so I haven't 
1976 
when we lost, and I can tell you that without question the feeling you get you 
"I will always he a strong Alahama man," he maintains. "I've left a part of my life there, but I'm out to try 
I'm very impressed with our players and the friendliness and excitement of 
everyone here has taken me in and made me so comfortable is something I 
"I hope we can mutually henefit 
Moore knows a lot about mutual benefits. On the ring finger of his left hand is a gift that Bryant bestowed to record­small figure of Bryant in his hounds-tooth the gigantic ring with a special message from Bryant. 
"Thanks for making it happen." 
If Moore can help make big things 
Dame, Alabama fans may realize that their greatest loss to Notre Dame. did not 
NBA players, management near pact 
(AP) -The National Basketball 
association contract talks indicated 
yesterday that they are moving 
positively towards a settlement, but 
stopped short of saying an agree­
me t nt is imminent just four days 
before a threatened strike. 
"If we weren't on the correct wavelength, we wouldn't be talking," Larry Fleisher, general counsel for the Players Association, 
said after a four-hour meeting. "I will assure you that a settlement is not imminent, but I feel much better than I did last Thursday. On that day, we went back to square ont>." 
After yesterday's meeting, Com­missioner Larry O'Brien, head of the management negotiating team, said another negotiating session was scheduled today. 
NBA players have threatened to go on strike after Saturday's games if no contract is reached hy that day. 

LEXIGRAPHICS by CARINI The colorful, provocative. conversational series will enhance the decor of any room I TITLES: WHY NOT, DO IT. NOW. FEEL, BE KIND, SEX, ENJOY, TENNIS ANYONE, FORGIVE, KISS, LIFE, COOL. 
S1zes: 22"x28:' $6. to $10. ea., by mail. postage pa1d, no obl1gat1on. Just send for free catalog to: 
M. KLEIN ASSOC. Dept. K 
P.O. Box 741 Westbury, N.Y. 11590 
Send name wtth college and or home address. 

The~Obset:Ver==-~=----=-=-~~---=-=~-==--=--=-======-=--======---~ 
~~4()l~~==========================W==e=d=n=e=sd=a=y=,M==a=rc=h=3=0=,=1=9=8=3===p=a=g=e=1=5
Bloom County 

.....--------, 
-rn6 WI Nil ffil11 11\VTE Of BITIU.':ttV UK£ JffiP6R WIN£ AN/7 5U0AR, I OCT tTS f!WiJN THRGU;H OTHEJ\5 
FE£L (A K£ 1)105£ OF•.. 
\ 

Simon 

Berke Breathed 

Jeb Cashin 

Aspirin Man 
5£.£ :THAT GIRl.. OVE.Il. THE/I.E..? 
( yENJ,rNE'S 
f£ALLY pl1£fif. 

I;/ 1//1//
I I I . ·'/ 
/ / 


The Daily Crossword 
© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 3/30/83 All Rights Reserved 
I',., 'TE.LLIN I 'lA SHE WAlliS f'll r// 

ACROSS 26 Shrink 
1 Beats it 
30 Assumed 5 Stuffy 
names 
souls 33 Apiaries10 Bistro 34 Attracted 14 Small 36 Cartograph·
theatres er's work 
15 Wystan 37 Pindar's 
Hugh-
poetry16 Glacial 
38 Chef's ridges creation 17 Lunchroom 
39 Biblical for Gene? trio 19 Memberof 40 Brown of a British 
renown party 41 Bowling20 Elects to alleys
office 42 Swiss city 21 Snakes 
43 Tailboard 23 Dander 
45 Seared 24 City on the 47 Tell 
Nile ,49 Islet 
Tuesday's Solution 

David]. Adams 
'fEAH,SHE ~ 'YOU ro L.£AVE HE~ AL.qNE. 

50 Peninsula 
in USSR 52 Poet­57 Son of 
Jacob 58 Lucille's 
accent? 60 Solar disk 61 City in 
Belgium 62 Goddess of discord 
63 First name in Cuban music 
64 Oliver and Best 65 Beach sight in England 
DOWN 1 Norse god 2 Arabian 
port 3 Ottand 
Blanc 4 Crackers 5 Light color 6 Coarse 7 That is: 
Lat. 8 Colloid 9 Whined 
10 Relative of a bean 11 Hard return by Arthur? 12 Weather word 13 Work units 
18 School 
areas 22 Footnote abbr. 
25 Annoy per· sistently 26 Wilddog of India 27 Increase the scope 28 Motor trips 
for Burl? 29 Kite 31 Bird of 
prey 32 Emulated 
Mata Hari 35 Caucho 38 That can be 
appeased 39 Was of 
importance 41 Shoestring 42 "Father of 
Television" 44 Sign of 
the zodiac 46 Motives 48 Terry of 
the stage 50 Dressed 51 Plexus 53 Water plant 54 River into 
the Rhine 55 Chang 
or Eng 56 Otherwise 59 Abe1's 
partner 
: 
Campus 
•2 
· 5 p.m.~ Income Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Center 

•4:.30 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Neuroautoimmunologic Disease: New Con· cepts," Dr. Philp Paterson, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 


•:, 9:15 and 11:.30 p.m. ~ Film, "Star Trek II, The Wrath of Khan," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Knights of Columbus, s1 
•7:.30 
p.m. -Law School Panel Discussion, "Draft Registration and Draft Resistance," Prof. Don Blosser, Prof. Edward M. Gaffney, and Michael Baxter, C.S.C., 101 Law School Building 

•8 
p.m. ~ Boston Symphony Orchestra, WSND-FM 88.9 

•8 
p.m. ~Lecture, "The Meaning of)erusalem for Christians," Rev. Marcel Dubois, O.P., Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. ~ Ice Capades, ACC, S5.50, !"".50 and S8.50 

•8:15 
p.m. ~ Saxophone Recital, Dale Kokot, Library Auditorium 

•8:
15 p.m. ~ Lecture, "Just Wages and Just Prices," Dr. Richard ]. Hunter. Jr., 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Society, 


T.V. Tonight 
7p.m. 16 M-A·S·H 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
7:30p.m. 16 · All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
Sp.m. 16 Real People 22 Seven Brides for Seven Brothers 28 The Thorn Birds 34 Live from the Met 
9p.m. 16 Facts of Life 
22 CBS Wednesday Night Movie 9:30p.m. 16 Family Ties 10p.m. 16 Quincy, llp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News is Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Hart to Hart/CBS Late Movie 28 ABC News Nightline 
The Far Side ­

"Trim the bowl, you idiots! Trim the bowl!" 

• 
S~orts 
A look back 
Moore recalls Crimson Tide days 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI censed when a 9-0-l Notre Dame Alabama beat No. 8 Ohio State in the Sports Writer team was voted the National Title Sugar Bowl, )5-6. Since the No. 2 over an 1 l-0 Ken Stabler team that team also lost that day, Alabama fans 
When Alabama graduate and for­also won the title in 1964 and 1965. felt that logically the Tide deserved mer offen~ive coordinator Mal In 1973 the Irish nipped the Tide, No. 1. Notre Dame, however, was Moore accepted the position of 24-2), in the Sugar Bowl for the Na­awarded that honor. backfield coach at Notre Dame. ear­tional Championship. The following Alabama t;ms reasoned in a song 
lier this year, he quickly received a called "The Little Blue Nun" that the message in the :-.<otre Dame ti.Jotball award was given to Notre Dame be­office from a close friend at Alabama. Spring Football '83 cause the vote counters included 
"Congratulations," stated the "two priests, a bishop, four cardinals message, "if you can't beat them, and a little blue nun." join them." Salt was added to the wound for 
Notre Dame is not the most year Ara Parseghian's final team Alabamians in 1980 when the Irish popular place in the world for defeated an 11-0 Alabama squad, 13-defeated them at Tuscaloosa, 7-0, Alabama football fans. Five times in 11, in the Orange Bowl to again and therby prevented the Tide from the last 16 years Notre Dame has squelch the Tide's hope for No.I. playing Georgia for the national title 
prevented the Crimson Tide from The greatest anger from Alabama later that year. In between all this, attaining the National Champion­came in 19T'. While No. S Notre Notre Dame also beat Alabama 21­ship. Dame defeated No. 1 Texas by a 38-18 at Notre Dame Stadium in 1976. 
In 1966, Alabama fans were in-10 count in the Cotton Bowl, No. 3 Thus, contrary to popular belief, the Alabama state legislature has not accussed the 4)-year old Moore of treason for moving his t spectacular
Bjork impressive in 
coaching career to Notre D«me. Save for some good-natured rib­bing from a friend already referred The Observer/John '«'achter
AHCA All-Star game 
to, Moore has not been seen at all as combination did not have any a Benedict Arnold. Moore, in fact,
ByJANE HEALEY 
trouble getting use to one another. has been touched by the response
AssistantSports Editor 
"I had played with both of those 
see MOORE, page 14 guys in the National Sports Festival
Notre Dame hockey player Kirt last summer," Bjork said. "It wasn't Bjork scored three points -one hard playing with them."
goal and two assists -in a losing ef­Like any all-star game in any sport,fort as the West edged the East 4-3 in 
Hits for a hoops junkie 
the contest served as a showcase for overtime in the AHCA Senior All-Star the scouts. 
game Monday night in Bloomington, "From what I understand, there
Minn. If you find that your head is becoming round, your 
were a lot of scouts there," Bjork
"It was a fantastic experience," Spring Break tan is turning orange and the word Chris Needles 
said. "Some agents came to us to tell
Bjork said. "Some of the guys were a "Spaulding" is etched on your face, then you qualify. Sports Editor Emeritus 
us about the scouts and what they
little ragged on the ice from not If you tlnd yourself worrying if Robert Morris beat 

were interested in."
playing in a while. You could tell Georg!a Southern, or how the Mishawaka Cavemen / 
But Bjork's main interest was not
who had played in the NCAA t1anls were doing in Hoosier Hysteria, then you definitely ··.·<,~'
the presence of professional scouts;
and who hadn't. But it was fun." qualify.
he was more enthused about the To see james Blackmon, a former teammate ofjoseph
Ifthis sounds like you, then you are a true-blue, dit.'d­
The two squads were voted upon possibility of a U.S. Olympic repre­Price at Marion High School, score 52 points in the
in-the-wool baskcthall head.by coaches from each region. Bjork, sentative being present. Official semifinals against Anderson was truly inspiring. To see
And this is your time of the year. With Hoosier Hys­who was alreadv selected as an all­tryouts ti.>r the 198... U.S. Olympic his team lose that game because of the play of Troy
teria just completed. the NIT tlnab tonight, the FinalAmerican and a CCHA all-acadt:mic hockey team will be june 2'i-.July 5 l.cwb (who only had ...o points) was equally
Four upcoming this weekend and the NBA playoffshonorable mention, received the in Colorado Springs. Bjork plans to remarkable. Blackmon, who is headed for Kentucky
starting in a couple of weeks, us basketball throats will 
second most votes in his center posi­be there, and he is optimistic after (poor kid), is a joy to watch.
have a hard timt· keeping track of Akecm and Kareem,tion. Two-time all-American Brian his tine all-star pcrt(Jrmance. Now, this weekend, there is the "'CAA's Final Four in
Scooter and Cozcll. :\-loses and Magic.Hills who broke his ankle betore the "It ccrt.tinly doesn't hurt," hc said. Albuquerque, N.M. And isn't it funny that. in a year
It all began with the Indiana high school Final Four game and was nor able to compete. "I think my chances arc when many college teams played under NBA-type rule'
last weekend in Indianapolis. It takes a special breed of was the top vote getter. strengthened now. I don't know (shot clocks, three-point lines, etc.), '\\T are lett with
basketball junkie to sit through high sd:ool games, but 
The East"s llrst line was comprised how much of the tt. .tm has already I've learnt.·d that you don't have to own a policy from four teams who play primarily an NBA-type of game ­of Bjork. :\lark Hamway of Michigan been selected or how many slob arc Farm Bureau Insurance or worry about black running and gunning. slammin' and jammin', and of State l'niversity. and Ted Speers of open. All that will he decided in knsc that borders on improvbation.
nightshade affecting your corn yield to enjoy Hoosier the l'niversity of :\1ichigan. The Colorado." see .JUNKIE, page 13
Hysteria. 

'Realistic' Gallo introduces team to winning, conference 
Third-year coach tries to build program despite academic, financial barriers 
By MIKE SULLIVAN seasons in a row since 1906-08. Now. Gallo is trying to Assistant.\ports Editor put together the fourth 20-win season since his arrival. Typically, he is not willing to rest on his success. 
.. 
The Notre Dame baseball program has many of the "We have worked real hard over the last few year~ ... same problems that the other "minor" sports at Notre he says. "But the program still has a long way to go. Dame have. The financial support that is given the team There is not the necessary tlnancial emphasb. It is a is not great, and academic requirements for the student-known fact that we have just four scholarships while I) athletes are tougher than most other schools. There arc is the NCAA limit. It's somewhat ofa deterrent as are the 
not many scholarships granted for the sport, so building tough academic standards. It makes thing~ kinda tough, a winning progr"m is a difficult task. but I knew that before I took the job." 
Notre Dame baseball coach Larry Gallo realizes that, When he took the job as assistant coach to Tom Kelly, but he has learned to accept all the problems and has now the Director of Non-Varsity Athletics, he was not used them as an excuse for not winning. But then joining a team that had only two winning seasons over again, he never has had a problem winning. the previous ten years. The team's poor tra<.·k record did 
''I'm not an eternal optimist and I'm not a pessimist-not keep him from leaving his coaching job at the l"ni­I'm a realist," explains Gallo, who is starting his third versity of Rhode Island. season as the Irish coach. "I know that the chance~ ofus "I was coaching in the Cape Cod summer baseball being No. 1 or being among the best in the country are league (in 1979) and I was supposed to go back to not in our favor. but that does not mean that I'd ever Rhode Island to coach baseball and teach phys ed,"' stop working toward it. describes <iallo. "But I got a call from Coach (Dennis) 
"I have a this feeling of never being satisfied which Stark, who told me that there was an opening in the goes back to when I was a player. I feel that you can physical education department at Notre Dame and always do better." asked me to apply. 
It has been a long time since the Notre Dame baseball "At t1rst, I thought it was someone pulling my leg. I program has seen someone do better than Gallo. Bct(Jre was surprised that there was a job at :'\lotre Dame. I !lew• he joined the program as an assistant coach in 19...,9, the 
see GALLO, page 10
baseball team had not put together three 20-win 



• • • Inside Sheep -page 5 

VOL. ?, NO PICKLES Yesterday's n~ws today, today's news tomorrow, and tomorrow's news next week. ALMOST APRIL FOOLS DAY, 1983 
"Ted to Burbank?" 

By RICHARD FECKNER 
News Stuff 
Citing a long-time ambition to he a game show host, University of Neutered Arne President Father Theodore Heshurgher announced his resignation yesterday during his routine audience with Pope jane Pauley I at the Vatican. 
Hesburgher's announcement was met with a chorus of boos and jeers by the crowd in Saint Peter's Square. estimated to be nearly 200 million people. Chanting in Latin "Get a real job" and "Buy mega clues," the crowd drove the man usually con­sidered to be the most powerful Catholic in northern Indiana to 
tears. 
When news of the resignation 
reached the Neutered Arne campus, 
several hundred students flung 
themselves out of first-floor dor­
mitory windows, causing massive 
carnag!'=. Stench from the corpses 
reportedly reached as far as Gary. In­
diana. 
"I can't keep living this life oflies," 
Hesburgher told the Pope. "All my 
life I've adored the work of Wink 
Martindale and Bob Barker. l can't 
wait to get those screaming women 
jumping all over me, kissing me and 
hugging me and winning all those 
prizes." 
When asked how the new job will 
affect him spiritually. Hesburgher 
replied "I believe I will be able to 
significantly enhance the mystical 
character of morning television. 
providing an atmosphere of com­
munity love and respect among my 
viewers and contestants. If I can't. 
then ~o what? That mystical stuff is 
just a hunch ofcrap anyway." 
The Hesburgher resignation is the 
tlrst controversy to tarnish the ad­
ministration of Pope jane Pauley l. 
who succeeded john Paul II last 
week, becoming the first female 
Pope since Pope Pious IX was 
revealed as a transvestite in 1969. 
In his last official act as University 
President, Hesburgher has planned a 
trip to Chile, Guatemala, Uruguay. 
Paraguay, Nicaragua, Nigeria. 
Nairobi, the Sudan, and Calcutta. "I 
hope to solve all the world's 
problems as my last official act here at the University," Hesburgher added casually. 
Hesburgher hopes to land a job with "Let's Make a New Deal," a new show that will "allow contestants to deal away their old systems of governments for entirely new sys­tems behind Door No. I." As a long range goal, Hesburgher hopes some­day to ascend to "Family Freud," the most popular night-time game show that reportedly provides "a family­full of fun whik offe-ring valuable psychiatric aid to suicidally­despondent, demonic murderers." 
Those mentioned as possible suc­cessors to Heshurgher include Kathleen Righce, ex-Dean of Stu­dents at a small, Midwest Catholic girl's school; Karl 'Ellerbe of'Ellerbe Construction Co.; james Reamer, Czar of Students at the University; Dick Annis, famous weatherman; and Mick Stagger. lead singer for the Rolling Stoned. 
Crazed squirrels attack fieldhouse workers 
By CHIP N. DALE 
Roving Rodent Reporter 
A band ofcrazed squirrels scream­
ing "Save the tleldhouse, save the 
fieldhouse!!" yesterday pelted 
workers of Ritschard Bros. Inc. with 
nuts as demolition of the Old 
Fieldhouse continued. 
"The demolition can only be seen as a misguided attempt by the Uni­versity administration to solve the housing problem by using scare tac­tics to force fieldmice off-campus," said a spokesrodent for the inde­pendent union, Squirrelidarity. The union claimed responsibility for the attack, which began around noon as several workers started their lunches. 
"I was just biting into my alreadv cold Muddlehurgcr when I w~s beaned by a walnut," said Terry Down, a I ';-year veteran of Ritschard Bros. crews. "It was hor-. rible, just horrible." 
A passing Canadian goose called Notre Dame Security. which responded hy sending a crack team with commando training to the scene. The security squad encoun­tered a heavy nut-shelling during ini­tial attempts to rescue crew workers. 
"Those critters put up a heck of a fight, but we put the fear of God in them when we brought out the bazookas and gave them IS minutes to disperse or die," said security director Glen "Blood 'n' Guts" Daring. 
Members of the squirrel com­munity, however, were shocked and outraged at the inhumanity of the counter attack. 
"It's just one more example of the fascist mentality of the capitalist powermongers running this institu­tion," said an incensed rodent iden­tified only as Panama Red. 
Willard "Rats" Keller. University vice president for bestial affairs, said all diplomatic relations with the rebel squirrel~ were broken off when "the varmint insurgents refused our reasonable request to use the sidewalks when crossing the North quad." 
University Provost Timothy Dreary said a committee has been formed to study the matter. 
As Ted titters 
Fallacious fraud foils freaks 
BySECSYULE 
StaffInfection 
Charges and counter-charges are flying after last week's class elec­tions. Controversy is centered on al­leged fraudulent and crooked voting rules set down by Voting Commis­sioner Dick Dork. 
Loudest among those crying 
"foul'" is Ralph Ooze. Ooze was the 
self proclaimed "top gob" ofa junior 
class ticket calling itself "The Blob." 
Says Ooze, "I have reports from all 
over campus that students trying to 
vote for us were denied ballots on 
the grounds that they were insane." 
When asked about this, Dork replied, "Ooze is out ofhis mind. His whole ticket is slime. They're a bunch of radicals! Imagine, campaigning for fun? Normal tickets 
always consist of power-mad megolomaniacs, who want to loot the class treasury and have some­thing juicy tor their resumes." 
Sophmore Becky Buck claims that when she attempted to vote, she wa~ given a ballot that had only one name on it. "I live in Barley Hall, which is where Dafne Bimbo lives. When I told the election official I wanted to vote tor the Blob, she told me I was crazy and thus could not vote. 
"The election official is Daphne·~ 
roommate. I knew it was hopeit'~~ to 
call Dork to complain because Daphne lives down the hall from me, Student Body President Loud Bark and I see Dork running out of her could not be reached for comment. room after parietals all the time." According to his roommate. ~ark 
Ooze backed Buck's contention. was riding a bus beggingfor pennies. "It's all a big clique. Bimbo's been At this point, Ooze is not content going with Dork for years. I have to stay tlacid and allow Bimbo to 
infra-red pictures of them by the take office. "The future offun here at lake last August. You should see school is at stake. I've instructed my where Bimbo got mosquito bites." see OOZE, page 2 
D-ha/1 ding-a-lings demand demurrer 
By ROSE MARIE. WOODS 
Senior Citizen Reporter 
Storming the Administration steps yesterday afternoon, a newly 
formed group ofenraged Notre Dame dining hall workers presented 
its demands for better working conditions to father Thaddeus Lim­
burger, University President. 
Labelling their movement FROC, foreigners Rebelling against Obscene Conditions, the migrant dining hall workers decided to come to Limburger as "the only way to regurgitate our differences. so to speak," said Rodrigo Manuel I.abora. 
"We're sick of peddling this slop," said Labora. "You know how many of the ladies working here tainted after dishing up them ammonia-smelling rolls the other day?" 
Lahora cried that "The students don't know how good they have it. Sure. they might get a case offood poisoning here or there, hut at least they don't have to dress up like Spanish Chinese for stupid theme nights."_ 
l.imhurger, in Bangladesh to promote better eating conditions ti:>r 
the poor, wa~ unavailable for comment. 

* .<-i 
% ;,j 
¥. 
i­
"' 
~ 
t 
j } 
.:·
:i
..'! 
:<! 
j.~ 
~ 
.~l 
·.. 
,
"! 
~ 
I 
I 
i 
l 
,. ~ 
J 
" f f 
,. '1
i . ~. 
i 
'i 
~· 
l 
···~ 
~-~ 
Snews Brief§ 
By The Absurder and a bunch ofdrunks 
Saint Mary's College representatives today an­nounced that plans for demolition of the recently completed Cushwa-Leighton Library are being pushed ahead. "It's such an eyesore", said the Female Undergraduate Cultural Council presi­dent, Mary A. Doctor. When reminded ofthe relative newness ofthe recently completed structure, Doctor replied, "I love working with people! Besides, the structure has no visible means of support; no one here can understand how it's stayed up as long as it has." -The Absurder. 
An Unidentified ffiaD hijacked the Notre Dame­Saint Mary's Love Shuttle early this morning, demanding transporta­tion to Cuba and the cornerstone of the recently demolished Fieldhouse. Attempts to free the 69 passengers held hostage failed until another unidentified man arrived and killed everybody. A man resembling the second unidentified man was later reported seen climbing a back stairway of the Administration Building, apparently heading toward the office of a well-known University official. Wit­nesses claim the man was mumbling that he had worked here for decades just to get that cornerstone and no two-bit Hispanic was going to take it now. -The Absurder. 
Father Hamburger is up in non-nuclear arms over the "perplexing disappearance" ofthe old Fieldhouse. "I looked out my window one morning and it was like splitsville!" stated the beleaguered president as he was hastily packing a suitcase for a trip to somewhere that was probably rather important. -TheAbsurder. 
Workers digging underneath the wreckage ofthe Old Fieldhouse have discovered three bodies in various stages ofdecom­position, but all resembling Dr. Emil T. Phonehomeman. Some have seen this as confirmation ofthe theory that the Dean ofthe Freshman Year of Studies has perfected cloning, and plans to teach here until he has finished his greatest work, a combination hair restorer and sex aid. -The Absurder. 
The artificial heart which prolonged Dr. Barney Clark's life until he died is continuing its service to the advancement of modern technology. The heart has now been installed in one of the four computers controlling the U.S. Space Shuttle Columbia. The computer is functioning normally with its new power supply, according to a NASAL spokesman. The spokesman added, however, that the computer was at first reluctant to give up Mexican foods and alcohol as doctors ordered. "The computer thinks it should be able to get looped or have a byte whenever it wants to, but these dietary restrictions are just subroutine," the spokesman said. The computer would not communicate with reporters directly, but issued a state­ment through an interpreter: "Old power supply removed. New power supply installed. Situation normal. Please tell my wife I am fine." -The Absurder. 
Former Student Body President uoyd 
Jurke yesterday revealed a student government proposal to alleviate the campus housing problem by converting Corby Hall into a co­educational dormitory. The proposal calls for the priests now resid­ing in Corby Hall to seek quarters in Moreau Seminary, Columba Hall, or to take advantage of clergy discounts at Motel 6. Jurke also announced a series of meetings t<>r the clergy with off-campus stu­dents who can provide more information on the problems of living off-campus. South Bend mayoral candidate Lulu McGander feared that the proposal, if carried to term, would ultimately lead to an increase in crime. "Those priests are so rich that they are going to he a terrible temptation to the Pavarotti-stricken members ofour inner 
city areas," she said. -The Absurder. 
Lil' SaplingsWeekendwill he "a good opportunity for the little runts to see just what kind ofa dump this place is," said Buffy Knockers, chairunit of the event. Knockers hopes to save the younger brothers and sbters of today's domers from what she calls "a repres~ive conservative atmosphere, where students use popcorn and beer as substitutes for animalistic procreation." Knockers plans to send the young girls to Horby's, where they will "he treated as 
meat." The boys will spend their weekend at the Rock so they can "mindlessly bounce balls as an excuse to get sweaty and feel manly." The planned showing of Three Stooges shorts in the Engineering Auditorium has been cancelled because of the recent riot. Instead, the snivelling brats will attend a "Kool-Aid" mixer on the second floorofthe Library.-TheAbsurder. 
Adisappointingyear.That's how the Maintenance Department describes its recent snow season. The lack of the white stuff prevented the staff from topping last year's record of 34 stu­dents and 47 bikes maimed by snowplows. After a recent recruiting trip in Mexico, however, the boys are optimistic about the 1983-84 season. -The Absurder. 
Bodies flew through the air and splinters showered the ground during last night's unscheduled riot at the Engineering Auditorium. During the second reel of the cult classic Bedtimefor Bonzo, the crowd voiced displeasure over the ~;:hronic bad sound, out-of-focus picture, and uncomfortable seats. But things didn't come to a head until Student Onion staffers turned on the lights to count their loot. Authorities say three died, 47 are injured, and an­other 18 are missing. The prim of the film, valued at 3 7 cents, also is missing. -The Absurder. 
Plagues, disease, and general ickiness are in the forecast for the Fichiana area through next year. Snow, squalls, and scurvy should be particularly prominent. Temperatures will of course remain uncomfortable and damp. Look for continuing dark­ness at night, but don't expect to see the light ofday. 
Almost April Fools Day -page 2 
Buttt leads charge 
Prez proposes pinko plunder 
By MAJOR EXPENSE 
StaffMilitarist 
Student Body Liard Buttt an­
nounced that Monday's Student 
Pundit meeting inaugurated his 
campaign to overthrow the "godless 
commie-pinko sympathizers who 
run this joint. From now on, those 
imperialist war-mongers will have to 
answer to me." 
Hungry for power, Buttt will let last month's elections stand, but amended the constitution to strip Brain Killerman and Peggy Por­nographic, the coming offi<:ers of all powers. 
Bunt declared in this exclusive in­terview, held at his off-campus guer­rilla base, "all-out war now exists. No quarter will be given, though many will be played." 
"Because of the great respect and awe given me by the students on this campus, I expect them to rise up and join my revolution," Burtt boasted. He lists for special targeting for ex­ecution University Strongman Theodore Hess, Director of Propoganda Father Almond Joy, Minister of Internal Security Junk VolksWagon, and Grand Inquisitor 
General Rommel. 
Secret reports leaked from the 
ruling junta revealed plans to abort 
Buttt's coup before it is carried to 
term. Joy babbled, "The hockey 
team were supposed to be fighters, 
too. We sticked them in the pucks, 
and we'll never accomodate any stu­
dents on this campus." 
Rommel promised, "We'll stop at 
nothing to stop these nothings." 
Rumor has it that the junta used the 
North and South Biological Warfare 
Laboratories to develop organisms 
more deadly than the pork. The 
Laboratories' Director, known only 
hy her code name, 'Verdoom,' was 
eager at the chance to test her skills. 
Volkswagon could not under­
stand what all the fus~ was about. 
"We have a god-given right to lead 
these poor, ignorant savages to 
salvation. Why aren't they skating on 
the lake or playing haskethall in the 
t1eldhouse?" He then resumed 
staring out his window, watching 
the squirrels with a mindless grin. 
Design (ioon... . ......... linch: Ryan Remus Other (ionns ....... Monkhead & Bonehead TJ•Jle.<el/er ... ........................... l.iule Tommy Snews Editor ..................... .......... Margarita Spurts Editor...... .Bouncing Batls ND IJCI)' Editor............. .......... Ring Bearer SMC Day Editor... .... Ring Wc::arcr Proofreader .............................. Ray Charlc:s Photographer... .. .................. Mr. Ed (iuest Appearances ..... .....Sudden Illness 
Klingons 
Loons Ronnie the goat Chicago & point~ west 
"The rest were £'butting U 1ilb the fisbies" 
The Absurder (CHAOS 321 123) 1s published once a year 1f we feel like 1t, and there s nothmg you can do about 1t The Absurder 1s produced by a motley crew chosen from among the n1ght people m the area Cop1es may be purchased for small sexual favors or lewd public displays Wnte The Absur­der 1f you can find the address 
The Absurder 1s a member of the DiSSOCiated Press. no starch please Blow dry 
Hess was attending a conference in Auschwitz; Poland with ex· Ugandan President ldi Amin and ex­Cambodian President Pol Pot, and could not he reached by anyone. 
Buttt was so confident of his success that he revealed to this reporter all his plans for the future operation of the university, which will be renamed the University of Neuter Dames to Like. 
Among his first priorities is enlist­ing all of Dillon Hall into a Marine Corps, as they have already demonstrated their prowess at repelling all outsiders. Soon after his <:onsummation ofpower, he plans to launch a "rape, pillage, rape, plun­der, and rape" expedition across U.S. 
31. Bunt stressed, "We cannot afford not to exploit these valuable resources." 
Soon after this, he will convert all dorms to co-ed by bed. "There is on­ly one sure way of being sure that a student is really mature," com­mented Buttt's right-hand man, Bob Bedhop. "In addition, we will abolish all classes, as well as all class, at Neuter Dame. And the Library will be perfect as a convenience brothel, with all those little rooms,"chimed in Mike McArthur, who is eager to lead his elite 22-member squad imo the combat they've been training for all year. 
Senior Class President Mork Mindi protested the proposal be­cause he won't be able to see it come to its climax. 
Buttt added that he will maintain the reputation of the university's president as a world leader. He is planning meetings with Libyan leader Muammar Quaddafi, Ayatol­lah Ruhollah Khomeini, and PLO chairman Yasser Arafat. 
Buttt will also be active in social concerns. He is planning many programs, such as "Save the Basses" to protest dioxin pollution and a world-wide free 1ze to bring everyone's climate into parity with South Bend. 
President Ronald McReagan has characterized the upcomi11g struggle as "a clash of East and West." He said of Buttt, "Gee, we need more swell guys like him to save us ti:om those bad commies." 


continued/rum page I 
supporters to plan resistance." 
The Absurder has obtained secret files that the Bloh plan to herd sheep through Bimbo's inaugural hall set t<>r next week. They also plan to. at­tack Dork in the Northeast Chow Hall, and pummel him with wienees. In addition, plans call for itching powder to he added to Dork's khakis while they are at the St. Mangle's Laundry. 
An investigation into the scandal by the Student Government Ruhbc:r 
Many had gay lime at this past weekend's Oral Interpretation Conference. Some, however, felt it went to the dogs. 
• • • Ooze 
Stamp Committee last week came up short. "We couldn't tlnd any evidence of anything that hadn't happened betore," said Committee Chairthing Bohhy Bullwinkle. "Daphne's a great gal, and Dick is the best roommate I ever had." 
Despite the scandal, Bimbo assured the students that they had nothing to worry about. "We're going to have a nifty ice cream social next year, and after that we'll send out a newsletter telling you kids what law schools Dick and I are going to." 

The Abstmler 
Yesterd~======~=~=lm=o~=~=ill=~=~=oa=y=_p=~~37 
The Boneheads Fosi Ver Monker 



Sayman Pink Floyd 

0 
0 
Chancy Dorkus 
,AgUv11 '/OU (jLAD '1--£Ect4/.68 YClU 
0D rJ-r 1-IA /Jc 11. 11?; G 1-rr !3RvISE: IT / f3AtJA}.)A L l K€--1i-1 ~ 
fV/oJ.JK.GYS "? 
W' ---­
·zoo~: 
Ll_-_ _--,-lJ 
···­
·--r· 
Father lceburgh's day: 
•6:00 a.m.: awakens 
•6:03 
a.m.: doesn't shave in order to obtain the Hemingway look 

•6:27 
a.m.: early morning jog around Corby Hall 

•7:25 
a.m. (EST): boards jet to Vienna to speak before Catholic bishops conference, lobbies for a bilaterial nuclear freeze 

•8:47 
a.m.: returns to Notre Dame, plays Atari Missile Command 

•9:04 
a.m.: calls Father Van in for "executive conference," (Father Van wins both games of Missile Command) 

•9:36 
a.m. (EST): accepts honorary college de­gree 12,487 from Oxford University 

•9:59 
a.m. (EST): serves as international ob­server of school board elections at San Miguel's grammar School, San Salvador 

•10:24 
a.m.: accepts honorary college degree 12,488 from Goshen College 

•U:04 
a.m. (EST): meets with President Reagan at White House, advises President on the tlner points of maintaining presidential office in­definitely without really trying 

•11:23 
a.m.: visits LaFortune, tlnds Tom Dooley Room missing 

•11:35 
a.m.: makes annual visit to Art depart­ment, finds fieldhouse missing 

•U:37 
a.m.: picks up Fieldhouse brick from rubble 

•11:48 
a.m.: checks out new juke box and pizza oven in Huddle 

•12:19 
p.m.: checks out new "Rides wanted" board in Huddle, hangs "ride wanted" sign to Venice (Italy, not California) 

•12:43 
p.m. (EST): say·s Mass in board room of Chase Manhattan Bank, New York; prays for higher profits and lower interest rates 

•1:18 
p.m.: walks to library only to tlnd it oc­cupied by Architecture department, suddenly looks east and sees Memorial Library, heard to ex­claim: "What is that and I want it named after me" 

•1:38 
p.m.: officiates at weekly keg tapping ceremony in Moreau 

•2:06 
p.m.: cuts across North Quad in defiance ofGeneral Roemer's lawn directives 

•2:44 
p.m.: accepts honorary college degree 12,489 from Ivy Tech 

•3:01 
p.m. (EST): private meeting with Pope in Rome (sells Pope fieldhouse brick at half-price) 

•6:28 
p.m.: goes to Lee's Ribs for dinner (orders tips with extra-hot sauce) 

•9:17 
p.m.: visits Corby's to fultlll obligation to "mingle with the students," turned down at door tor lack of identification 

•11:08 
p.m.: goes to oftlce ro await nocturnal visitors 

•U:32 
p.m.: "Fritz" Mondale climbs tire escape of Dome tor advice on a real political career 


•11:58 p.m.: retires (so to speak) 
Bullshetorials 
P.O. Box Phew  
in its int1nite wisdom. has handedInstant rice down. All of them_ Dear Editor: Notre Dame oftkials, by allowing It has come to my attention, parties at which alcohol is served, by through the pages of The Absurder allowing students to drink alcohol in and elsewhere, that many Notre their dormitory rooms, even by Dame students are unaware of, or allowing students to leave the choose to ignore, the Indiana laws campus to imbibe at local driinking on alcohol use. establishments while using phony The state legislature, in its public identification, are short-changing law Humus Vinum. has made the the students by not teaching a State's position very clear on this respect for State Law. A university issue_ It is one which has been often which is training the future lawyers discussed and debated because and law-makers of our country there are those who disagree, but should not be negligent in this)m­nonetheless, it remains hasically the portant duty. same as it has t<>r years: those under Fr_ Puffed WfJeat the age of 21 may not purchase, ob­Professor ofTheology tain, or consume alcoholic beverages_ Editor's Note: The appearance of When we choose to !Jetome resi­letters to the editor is subject to.the dents of the :'llotre Dame com­whim of the editor. Letters contain­munitv we bv extension, also ing money will be given preference.beco~~ residenr's of the State of In­Letters that don't contain cash, or diana. As such, we are bound to obey make bovine references .to .the those edicts which the Legislature, editor's girlfriend will be tossed..  

Thoughts on Burundi 
Have you ever wondered why the Univer­sitv has refused to implement a program of ne-utering all Notre Dame males' No longer would men complain about single-sex dorms, parietals, or a lack ofsocial space. No longer would the glee club need to be all male. 
But the problem is greater stilL How many 
times have you been unable to log onto the 
Guy Knowitall 
Guest Lunatic 
UniversitY terminals and been unaware that the Marx'ist-Leninist subjugation of rhesus monkeys by totalitarian governments was to blame? 
How soon we torget. 
Yet, given the Catholic nature of this school, why are there so many people praying around here? Isn't this rather un­Christian? How long can we tolerate an ad­ministration who considers issues such as moralitv, education, and personal growth higher goods than drinking beer? 
Even more repulsive is people's fun­damental ignoranceofindividual viewpoint. Everyone has the right to their own stupid opinion, regardless of what those naive and short-sighted theoreticians say. 
If only the members of The Absurderer staff were more concern with the simple rules of grammar and spell t ing, we might have a paper more worthy of being readed. And conciseness -the school newspaper has a tremendous knack tor taking long paragraphs and endless, run-on sentences, to convey those ideas which more professional writers would hopefully be able to encaps­ulate is short, clear, and distinct modules of English verbiage freed from the ignorant drivel of the vulgar masses ofpeople_ What a disgusting and intolerable. In only a few weeks I could turn the organization around, but what would be the point, since life is both comic and tragic? 
Guy Knowitall is a two-faced, egotistical perv~rt with the intellectual acumen of a small soap dish. Majoring in American Studies, he plans to become serious about life someday. 

------------------~-----­
Almost April Fools Day -page 60,462 
'Thought it was sugar' 
Lefty snared in cocaine deal 

The Ab'\urder/Oula h'..:u.. 
Notre Dame hockey coach Lefty Smilh, s!i/1 recuperaling from a hernia opera/ion, is whisked info !he counly jail by law enforcemenl officers afler being arresled for possession ofover $2 million worlh ofcocaine. 
Spurts Brie/§ 
By The Absurder and a bunch ofdrunks 
The USFL has announced plans for a new expansion team, the Mishawaka Hummers. Richard Yardley has been named as the club's head coach. B.J. Reuss has been named general manager, and will be in charge of ~heduling and all tlnancial matters for the club. The team does not yet have a stadium to play in, but plans are being drawn up for a new erection by Ellerbe and Ellerbe. who are known for their domed structures. Yardley was optimistic about his team's chances in its first year of competition. "We'll be competitive, I promise you that," said the new coach. "On a given day, we'll be able to lick anybody."-The Absurder. 
Hershey Talker, former L'niversity of Gored-ya foot­ball star, vesterdav announced plans to return to the University and tlnish his ~ducatio'n. The Whiteman Trophy winner cited increasing­ly negative media ccverage as a general reason for his move. "I'm a person, not a piece of meat," he said. "If they can't say anything nice about me, I'm not going to play. Let's face it, football is stupid. I only play because my mommy forces me to. She thinks money is the answer to all her problems, but someday she'll learn that 56.6 mil­lion is just not compensation enough for not being able to solve a quadratic equation or discuss Hegelian positivism intelligently for the rest ofyour life. I'm going back to the Dawgs." -TheAbsurder. 
Bookstore Commissioner Dave Dizzy, en· 
couraged by the success of the recent sale of "Bookstore XII" T­shirts bv MBA students, last night announced plans for a whole new line of ,;Bookstore" sportswear. The clothing will be manufactured for tne commissioner's committee by Chumpeen, an international supplier ofsportswear. "Ifanybody is going to make money offofthis tournament, it ought to be me," said Dizzy in his weekly press tirade from his campus headquarters: "Ofcourse, some revenue generated from sportswea·r sales will go back into the tournament. That will defrav costsofraising manholes and spreadinggravel over the courts to m~e them bookstore-playable." He added that he thought the bowling shirts were "particularly snazzy." -The Absurder. 
ByNOSCANDY 
StajfAddict 
Notre Dame Hockey Coach Leftv Smith was arrested at the Michiana Regional Airport carlv today while attempting to smuggle a suitcase laden with cocaine into the city. 
Police believe this was a last futile 
attempt <in the part of Smith to save 
the Notre Dame hockey program 
from dying. 
The cocaine was found in 500 
hollowed out hockey pucks con­
tained in a suitcase Smith was carry­
ing. Authorities say the cocaine had 
a street value of "close to !2 mil­
lion," the same amount needed to 
ensure the future of the hockey 
team. 
Smith denies the charges, claim­ing he was set up by the undercover Notre Dame security officers who apprehended him. 
"It was blatant entrapment. I ha .d 
no idea what was in the pucks," 
Smith protested. The coach said he 
purchased the pucks from a sporting 
goods salesman in Columbia, Ind.. 
hoping to distribute them to needy 
youngsters in the Northeast neigh­
borhood. 
Smith was arrested as he em­
barked from the plane, suitcase in 
hand. He was quickly escorted from 
the airport in an attempt to evade 
the swarm of reporters who rushed 
to the scene. Local WNUD television anchorwoman Ratty Cay claimed her station had purchased exclusive interview rights with Smith. 
Smith's wife. the former local model Christina Edsel, wept openly when confronted by reporters. She denied the charges: "We've been, you know, married like for eight months. I really, you know, feel like I know Lefty well. I know he would like never do anything like that. Do you like my sunglasses'" 
Edsel is best known for her early modeling in the local magazine, Elkhart. Today which quickly skyrocketed her to fame. 
At last report, Edsel had secluded 
herself in the couple's posh 
Roseland mansion following her 
husband's arrest. 
There were reports that Edsel had 
agreed to sell her story to Notre 
Dame's Snoozastic magazine. 
Sources close to that publication 
contlrm that the deal is a blatant ef­
h>rt by Editor Seth Vlealy to boost 
sagging circulation. 
"We tried to be creative and failed miserably," Vlealy said. "So now we're going the Rupert Murdoch ap­proach. We could't have prayed for a better story." 
When reached for comment, Notre Dame President Fr. Ted Hes­burgher said, "I don't know any Lefty Smith. Was there a hockey program here once?" 
If convicted. Smith could be relegated to "club coach" status for two years or be put on icc for thirty years in the state penitentiary. 

Head football coach Gerry Fausl recen/ly pulled off !he grea/es/ recruiling coup of his career, luring !he infamous Bigfool from !he woods of Washing/on S!ale lo !he playing fields under !he Golden Dome. A visibly pleased Faus1, who ironically, has a foot felish, is shown here posing wilh one of Bigfool's specially-made foolball shoes. 
Father Lemon Joy, University sports kingpin, has issued a call to students to support a unilateral freeze on all minor sports. "The uninhibited development and expansion of minor sports programs is leading us to the brink ofdestruction as a Univer­sity." said Joy in an official memo distributed to campus media late yesterday. "We already have enough minor sports now to break the University tlve times over. Anyone who thinks that minor sports are an effective deterrent against student boredom is insane." Student reaction was confused: "I knew we had minor sports ... but I didn't think tiddly winks would hurt the budget that much," said one senior. But the College Republicans jumped into the fray in an at­tempt to educate students on the issue. The group emphasized the difference between freezing all minor sports and just one sport. "We would just like to make it perfectly clear that all does not equal one. One is one, and all is more than one. Do you follow me, or am I going too fast?" said CR president Dark Wynch. Joy's statement concluded: "It is essential at this time to put our minor sports programs on ice in order to save our~elves from a fate worse than bankruptcy." -The Absurder. 
Notre Dame basketball coach Rigger Yelps is listed in fair condition as he recovers from his unsuccessful suicide attempt two weeks ago. The attempt occurred immediately follow­
ing his team's loss to the Northwestern School of Lumberjacks in the 
opening round of the LOSER Tournament. Screaming at the top of 
his lungs "We should have been in the NCAA's!", an incoherent and 
foaming Yelps climbed to the top ofcenter Tim Peptom's body and flung himself off to the hard court below. Paramedics fought back hundreds of enraged fans who tried to help Yelps in the suicide at­tempt and rushed him to Vlemorial Hospital where he is recovering !rom bruises. scratches, and a severely deflated ego. 

The Absurder/Geor!!e Bu,h 
Cheerleaders are splil over the recent Bulldog scandal. See s10ry inside. 
r•••••••••••••••••• 
Get arrested at 
·---------····----·-· 



