.....--------~----­
--l 
,
• • • Pope-page4 
j 

Burke orders junior election investigation 
ByTOMMOWLE 
StaffReporter 
A Judicial Board committee is 
being formed to investigate last 
week's junior class elections, it was 
announced at last night's student 
senate meeting. 
Judicial Chairman Kevin Stierer said the committee has the class rolls from ombudsman and will "hopefully have this settled" by this evening. Student Body President Lloyd Burke charged the five­member committee with "investigating the allegations and making recommendations regarding a new election." 
Stierer said he had the names of "eight people who supposedly were denied the right to vote" in the elec­tion, in which John Decker, junior class presidential candidate, was eliminated by four votes from the runoff. OBUD Director Tom Koegel stated it would be "good to write down a procedure for the future," should such a problem occur again. 
Koegel also noted the election rules state "if a hall is running short on ballots, they should get more from OBUD." Insufficient ballots were distributed to some halls be­cause OBUD's list of students was not separated into classes. Koegel said it was "our fault for not having enough ballots," but in at least one case, "theJ-Board did not know how to react" to the shortage ofballots. 

In other action, Hall Presidents' Council Chairman Mike McAuliffe presented the HPC's recommenda­tions on the housing lottery. The Senate's concensus was to include all seniors in the lottery except scholarship athletes, who are guaranteed housing, elected hall ot~ ficials, resident assistants, and stu­dent senators. The Senate agreed if the student body president and vice­president are exempted, class of­ficers should also be. 
The number of students to be lotteried off campus was heavily debated. The HPC recommended choosing "half the total of students needed to move off campus." Stu­dent Body President-ekct Brian Cal­laghan warned the administration "must avoid lotterying too many stu­dents." He suggested taking "a few a week and seeing how many others go with them." This proposal was seen as too diffiicult to implement, and the concensus, expressed by 

Junior Class President Mark Ruehlman, was to choo t se "no more than a third" of the approximately 275 persons needed. 
Callaghan also suggested moving 
seniors between dorms to balance 
the number ofincoming freshmen in 
each. McAuliffe noted "Director of 
Student Residences Father Michael 
Heppan will decide," but such a plan 
would only be implemented ifthere 
was a very large discrepancy be­
tween dorms. 
Burke stated the purpose of the lottery "is not to increase the num­ber of freshmen," but it is needed, McAuliffe said, because "hundreds more people are staying on campus than usual." Senior Class President 
see SENATE, page 4 

ByJACK AMARO 
News Staff 
The end of the Department of Computer Science at Notre pame came in 1970. 
The PACE (Priorities and Com­mitments for Excellence) report that outlines the University's priorities for the 1980s suggests the 
Campus Ministry 
' 


'Fr. Fitz' announces resignation 
ByPATSAIN 
StaffReporter 
FatherJohn Fitzgerald, known affectionately as "Fitz" 
to most people during his seven years at Notre Dame, 
has announced that he is leaving the University to 
pursue a ministry among the poor. 
Fitzgerald, who is currently associate director of 
Campus Ministryat Notre Dame, will spend next semes­
ter studying at the Graduate Theological Union in 
Berkely, California, enjoying "the luxury of being a stu­
dent again." · 
His second semester \vill be spent travelling around 
the United States observing various Church groups that 
are working directly with the urban and rural 
"I want to get a 
grasp for ways in 
which the Church is 
ministering to the 
poor," Fitzgerald 
stated. 
"Ever since I was 
in the seminary in 
the 60s I knew that I 
wanted to spend 
some of my life's 
energies working 
with the poor." 
"If I don't do it now, I might not ever do it at all." "I love what I have done here," Fitzgerald said, citing 
his work in counselling and organizing retreats, in addi­
tion to his "very special" position as unofficial chaplain · ofBreen-Phillips Hall. 
"I have very ambivalent feelings about leaving Notre 
Dame. I am excited about going on to something new, 
bu~ at the same time I am a little apprehensive." 
"This place has become a second ho!lle to me, and I will surely leave a large part of my heart here." 
"I have started to settle in here and to feel very com­
fortable with my postion. However, I have come to 
realize I may be more disgustingly middle-class than I 
have ever wanted to admit." 
"I will miss the vitalilty, enthusiasm, and spontaneity 
ofthe people here," Fitzgerald said. 
"The students here keep me honest and feeling 
younger than I am, and the people I work with are 
among the finest, most Christian people I have ever 
met." 
"Fitz is one of my all-time favorite people," said 
senior Dan Keusal, who has worked with Fitzgerald on 
student retreats and liturgies. 
"He takes Christianity and brings it life and color," 
said Keusal," he has shown me the joy ofChristianity." 
"Fitz is a very real, human person." 
"He is a fairly large man who likes good food and 
drink. When you talk to him, however, you see that he 
really is serious inside." 
"Fitz described himself as having a 
'romantic/poet/lover relationship' with the world," 
Keusal said. "He looks at the other people and the world 
around us as manifestations ofGod incarnated." 
"I will miss having someone around who embodies 
an important part of the spirit of Christianity to me," 
Keusal said. 
"Fitz has made religion come alive for a lot of stu­
dents," junior Dolly Duffy stated, "he has given it 
meaning in their lives ... he really knows how to reach 
out and touch students. In a selfish way, I am sad to see 
him go, but I am not unhappy, because Iknow he will do 
so much good." 
"Fitz has worked with upper middle-class, but now he is going to reach out and touch the poor," Duffy said. "To some of those people, he will be everything. I will be sad to see him go." 

Preparations are madefor the razing ofthe Old  scheduled for  March  12.  (Photo  by  Lucian  
Fieldhouse. Interior demolition of the building  Niemeyer)  
began  a  week  ago.  Work  on  the exterior is  

Computer science 

.Suggestion remains ri}\heeded 
University resurrect it. -the computer systems -before But according to Assistant Provost 
jumping into academic changes. for Computing Richard Spencer, no -The two major goals to be met to one in the administration is rushing 
achieve this unification are: to do so, and a committee to re­• To fully integrate the new examine the role of computer 
Hewlett-Packard system in the ad­science in the curriculum has not 
ministration building with the old been established. 
IBM 360 system located in the math­-----------.....--__;' ematics and computing building. 
• To enable students to have access to all University computer functions from just one terminal. 
To alleviate the great demand for computer services from the stu­dents and the faculty, the University bought the new H-P system to take care of administrative needs. The new H-P system, however, is not functioning at full capacity. Director of the computing center James 
see PACE, page 5 


--------~ -­



ewsBrie!J 
By The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
The Foundation ofConservative Thought: An Anglo-American Tradition in Perspective, by William R. Har­
bour, has recently been published by the Notre Dame Press. Accord­
ing to Harbour, an assistant professor of government and history at 
Longwood College, Virginia, "conservatism, ifit is to mean anything 
more than an attachment to any given status quo, must have some basic premises by which one may judge different societies." In his book, he identifes and examines those premises using examples from the works of thinkers as ancient Plato and as recent as B.F. Skinner. -The Observet· 
Notre Datne security officials have requested cooperation of motorists using the A-1 parking lot south of Dorr Road and across from Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering to use the B-1 lot when their lot is fully occupied. Signs designating the two lots have been erected at the entrances to the areas along Old Juniper Road, west of the stadium. The B-1 lot is south of A-1 lot. Autos parked illegally along curbs and in traffic lanes will be ticketed. 
The Observer 

Cabinet applications for Notre Dame student government positions are due today at 5 p.m. in the Student Govern­ment Office on the second floor ofLaFortune. Positions are available in the areas ofResearch, Housing, Athletics, Academics and Security. All interested freshman, sophomores and juniors are encouraged to apply. -The Observer 
In the natne ofscience, 100,000 nurses around the United States are sending their toenail clippings to the Harvard School of Public Health. The idea is to see whether people's day-by­day intake of an obscure trace element called selenium can affect their cancer rate. Other scientists have analyzed nail clippings before. What's news here is the scope of the undertaking. "Nobody has ever used it for this sort oflarge-scale application," said Dr. Wal­ter Willett, one ofthe researchers. It's a lot oftoenails -1 million if all 100,000 nurses enrolled in the studysend in their clippings. -AP 
The gastrononmiC 3.X fell on three of France's. finest restaurants yesterday when the Michelin Guide lopped offone star each, reducing the exalted three-star ranks of French cuisine from 21 restaurants to 18. The Michelin Guide -supreme arbiter of what is good on the table and often the maker or breaker of reputa­tions -demoted Raymond Oliver's Le Grand Vefour and Claude Peyrot's Vivarois, both in Paris, and and Francois Bise's Auberge du Pere Bise in the Alpine village of Talloires, near Geneva. The bad news was compounded by the fact that no new third stars -sym­bols of"one ofthe best tables in France, worth a special trip" -were awarded in the 1983 Michelin Guide, which goes on sale March 16. 
-AP 

Leaders ofthe nation's cities urged President 
Reagan yesterday to cut back the growth in defense spending, but 
they got from Reagan only the advice that ifthey could see classified documents, they'd agree with his call to increase the military budget. After a half-hour meeting with the preident, Mayor George Latimer of St. Paul said the delegation from the National League of 
Cities would be glad to look at any information showing a need for increases in Pentagon spending but hadn't been convinced by the president. '·You can't be swayed by an offer ofinformation," Latimer said. "You're swayed by information. Since I didn't have any informa­tion. I couldn't be swayed." Latimer said Reagan told the delegation from the National League ofCities that he is sticking by his plans to spend S238.6 billion on defense next year, a 14 percent increase. ­
AP 

AsimulatedSovietregimenthas scored manv 
victories over U.S. Army units seriously lacking "important 'go-to­war' skills" in mock battles at the National Training Center in Califor­nia, officials said yesterday. "They win many of them," said Lt. Col. Dave Mooney when asked about reports that a training regiment made up of American soldiers using Soviet tactics and Soviet-type equipment has outgunned U.S. Army tank and mechanized infuntry outfits. Mooney, a a t spokesman for the Army Forces Command 
which supervises training, said he did not have any scores which would reflect the margin ofvictory for the "Soviet" regiment. At the same time, Mooney acknowledged that a report prepared by the Forces Command said "there is a Jack ofdemonstrated tank crewand anti-tank gunner capability" to destroy enemy targets. According to this report, the record of10 Army task forces which exercised at the Fort Irwin center last year disclosed "a significant shortfull in impor­tant 'go-to-war' skills." -AP 
Much coolerwith 40 percent chance ofshowers. High in the mid 40s. Cloudy and cold tonight and tomorrow with snow flurries possible. Low in the mid 20s. High in the mid 30s. -AP 
-~-~ --~~~~-----~-~ -------------~--------------... 
Tuesday, March 8; 1983 -page 2 
This space for rent 

Should anyone not yet on spring break pass by The Observer offices this Friday, they may hear shouts of. happiness and glee. Should someone enter the offices, they might tlnd several people frolicking in dances of joy. These people would be the senior editors, for whom Friday means retirement. 
·While the idea of turning over the joint to the new regime may be appealing, it is not without sadness. For me The Observer has been more than an excuse to blow off classes. During the past few years it has come to dominate and even to run my life at times. It ha.s gobbled up my free time and G.P.A. And some character assasins would say it has driven me to drink. 
The Observer, as an entity, is not that special; there are hundreds ofcollege papers in the country, many of which are better. But to me it was more than a place to work; it was a place to grow -at least a little. 
My first interaction with the paper was as a day editor. I had originally signed up to write stories. which meant that I was doomed to daily phone calls from a pleading female voice beg­ging me to do this or that story. From then on they had me dangling on the hook like a carp. As the semesters passed I found myself serv­ing in various functions, including a stint as a day editor which meant I was the pleading voice. As my positions have become grown, I've learned the true meaning of "The Peter Prin­ciple." 
Ahh, but the people I've met. Many I consider friends for life. During my peon days in the fall of 1978, I .wor­shipped several seniors. To a young lad fresh from high school, they were so mature and had so many thoughts on pressing world matters. One of these was a lovely woman who first taught me layout technique. My terrible crush on her was only hampered by her muscle-bound fiance. 
One of the happy by-products of getting to know so many people is that no matter what city I am in, there is probably someone close by I can call to borrow money, to set bail for me, or whose house I could crash at for the night. 
The Observer has taught me many habits -good and bad. Four years of staying up until five in the morning has made me hopelessly nocturnal. When others are rising with Mr. Sun, I'm cursing the chirping birds and :;earching for boring literature to put me to sleep. I've learned to love coffee. I cheered the day Sanka canned Robert "Jane you look tense heh-heh" Young. I even learned a little about newspapers, mostly what not to do. One of my~ biggest complaints was writers who 
r-c~~-)~iljMr(.~~-l$11
The~Observer 


3 days until March break...
I . '\ 

Design Editor......... McSherrystown ~mall 
Design AssistantTom "West Palm Beach" 
Sapp '­l.uyout Stuff........... ....... early depotnures 
1}·peset/ers.. ...... ) im, Norrhbound R;~bbit News Editor.. .... Katie· Harrisburg' Doyle Copy Editor...... llan 'Villanova' Mai H&T Layout.. .. .... The same old gang Editorials Layout..... . ~·~ ....... Tari llrown Sports Cop)' Editor. Mike' Fl Lauderdak" 
~ullivan 

NDDa)'Editor ...............Jane Panfil ~:ttc DayEditor Tari 'On-campus· Brown 7ypists ................... ... Mike O'Connor Ad Design... . .... .jeannme Euch Photographer........ .. Lucian ·Philadelphia' 
Niemeyer 

GuestAppearances.... ......... Tom 'Purdue· Mowle, Tim 'Off-campus' Neely, As· sorted phone.jn Bookstore Basketball Solicitors, Alex "North Coast' Szilvas, my friend Sarah 'Jersey' Hamilton 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fr~da y and on home football Saturdays. except dur~ng exam and vacat10n periods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary s Col· lege. Subscnpttons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The Observer P 0 Box Q Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor 
Inside Tuesday 

write about themselves. The Observer has also taught me the value ofhipocracy. 
My life has been affected in many more far reaching ways. Even those people I am close to that do not work for the paper, I have met through someone who did. Th subtle influences The Observer has had on my life are probably more important than the obvious ones. 
Like any family, my associates have had disagree­ments through the years. For some, this resulted in divorce. However, the wise learned to adapt to others' 
idiosyncracies. I've dealt with ·my share of errant children, loony aunts, and eccentric cousins. Ofcourse to many, I've simply been their weird uncle. Then there are those lovely Ob­server romances, whereby after the pleasure curdles. you entt:r purg:norv stili having to work with someone who now con­siders you a goon. 
And who can forget those happy moments when at three in the morning some overrated box of circuits blows up. a staff member 12.._ goes berserk and threatens J the life of another. and an 
irrate reader calls to threaten legal action against you and your first born. If patience is a virtue, then moments like this can erase a multitude ofsins. 
As I look back at the names and fuces, I am struck with the happy memories, but also there is a sadness. Gradua­tions, failures, and other tragedies claimed so many before I really got to know them. Happy memories that 
are just that -memories. This is a sad aspect of the college experience in general, despite the promises to get together in the future. A brief meeting at a football weekend doesn't do it. Usually, a nosy spouse or a bur­ping infant intrudes. 
Thus I wish the new editors success and scoops. I've spent my time here, and am fortunate enough to have fond memories to last a lifetime. To all the people I've worked with at The Obseroer past and present. thank· you. My life will be forever richer. 
Ill 
JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT ANOTHER ST. PAT'S DAY WOULD  I  
GO BY 'UNCELEBRATED'...  k.~~  
THE STUDENT UNION IS SPONSORING A PRE-ST. PAT'S DAY PARTY  •. ,;I  
featurinx ONE OF THE TOP IRISH BANDS  ~I  

th€ Clancy BRoth€RS 1 I 

The Observer 

Peggy Prevoznik; Dave Drouillard, newly­appointed student union director; Tom Koegel; Kevin Stierer, and Bob Bondi, recently chosen to be student union comptroller, discuss appoint-
Five~step method 

Company values assessed 
She is employed at Holy Cross much about how the company is SeniorStaffReporter Health Systems. managed and, Tamborini added, one "It is possible to predict a com· should ask the receptionist ques­
pany's values," she said, and she of­tions about the company. 
By ANNE MONASlYRSKI 
There is no perfect job, but there fered five steps the job seeker may
are "basic values that can jibe with 4) Interview employees of the one's own," said Susan Tamborini in company. Ask why they think the
use in assessing the values ofa com­the lecture "Picking the Right Com­
pany at the time ofan interview. 
1) Study the physical setting of company is a success. Find out what
pany for You" at Saint Mary's the company. "The company is kind of people work there and who
Stapleton Lounge last night. Well aware of the "I have to get a 
making a statement of who they gets ahead in the long run. job syndrome," (that particularly af­
are," she said. 
5) Observe how the employees
2) Read as much literature about

fects seniors) Tamborini said the job spend their time. "Watch what they
the company as possible. Look for
seeker should still "take a lot oftime really do (versus what they say they
recurrent catch phrases, she em­
to look at oneself and the company do)," Tamborini said.
phasized. "If they have really got it,
to see if he or she can get along." 
"Think seriously about how you
they're going to flaunt it," she added. want to make a living and how it
Tamborini, who is experienced in 
conducting job assessment sessions, 3) Test how the company greets jibes with your life," she concluded.
strangers. The reception area tells
is a former Saint Mary's hall director. 
Tuesday, March 8, 1983-page 3 


Freshman 'Surtey 
~ 


results released 
Today's Notre Dame freshmen are compared between Notre Dame stu­more politically conservative and dents and students at peer institu­more interested in self-centered ob­tions, described by the sponsors of jectives than were the freshmen ofa the survey as "private, highly decade ago. selective universities," Notre Dame 
These are some ofthe findings ofa had the same number of con­comparison study of surveys com­servatives, more in the middle-of­pleted by entering freshman at the the-road, and fewer liberals. There University in 1972 and 1982. The are no major differences between comparison was conducted by the Notre Dame freshmen and those at American Council on Education and peer institutions when comparing the University of California at Los self-centered and other-centered at­Angeles. titudes. 
Political moderation is a The comparison of freshman dominant trend now, with the classes also reveals that: "liberal" orientation declining from 
• Enrollment gains have been 34.5 percent in 1972 to 19.4 per­made by minorities, with slightly cent in 1982, while the fewer black freshmen and slightly"conservative" side went from 17 more Mexican-American freshmen 
percent to 28.9 percent. Those who at Notre Dame than at peer univer­described themselves as "middle-of­

sities. 
the-road" remained relatively con­• Average high school grades ofstant, with 45.4 percent favoring this incoming freshmen are substantiallypolitical outlook in 1972 and 50.1 

higher than those reported 10 years
percent favoring it in 1982. ago.
There has also been a decrease in • Major shifts in attitudes concrn­attitudes expressing a desire to help ing optimal family size and and theothers. Favorable responses to state­legalization of marijuana have taken

ments such as, "help others in dif­place, with endorsement of largeficulty" and "participate in 

families more than doubling (from
community action" declined from 23 percent to 53 percent) and op­67 percent to 58 percent, and from 
position to legalized marijuana34 percent to 23 percent, growing (from 52 percent to 82 per­respectively. This decrease is 
cent).

complemented by an emphasis on self-centered objectives, such as "to When compared to freshmen at be very well off financially" (an in­peer institutions on a range ofsocial crease from 45 percent to 63 per­issues: Notre Dame freshmen are far cent) and "to be an authority in my more likely to be against the death field" (an increaSe from 63 percent penalty, legalized abortion, liberal to 76 percent). divorce laws and pre-marital 
When political attittudes were cohabitation. 
********************************* 
Corby's ............. Announces ....... . "the Corby Open" Golf tournament Registration starts after spring break! 
********************************** 
For mentally ill 
Lecturer supports mainstreaming 
By PATRICK MULLEN 
News Staff 
The recent movement to take the 
mentally ill out of hospitals and in­
stitutions and reinstate them in 
society was the topic of a lecture 
presented by Sue Estroffyesterday at 
Hayes-Healy auditorium. The 
lecture was sponsored by the Psy­
chology and Anthropology depart­
ments of Notre Dame. 
"Are we willing to make a real 
effort to deinstitutioqalize the men­
tally ill?" Estroff asked. She said that 
the idea behind the movement is 
good, but not enough effort has been 
put into its execution. 
"Deinstitutionalization is failing partly because society isn't willing to accept 'crazy' people," said Estroff, an anthropologist currently working at the University of North CarolinaChapel Hill Medical School. 
"Trying to get 'crazy' people out of hospitals and back into society to live normal lives is going to take massive social change. People con­sider the mentally ill too unfit to function in society and therefore value them 'negatively as con­tributors to society and as human beings." 
Estroff spoke of the personal ex­perience she had had in working with a group of 43 patients par­ticipating in a deinstitutionalization program. 
"As patients in hospitals, the men­tally ill have been humiliated and degraded," Estroff stated, "so we have set up programs to treat them as outpatients in order to help them establish the capability to cope. Autonomy, however, has been 
tough for patients to achieve be­ill, though, we are reluctant to take cause they have been unable to find 
care ofthem." "Deinstitutionalization could be

jobs, have been able to establish nor­mal relationships only with other 
successful if a greater effort is made patients, and have had to continue 
to help it work." Some ofthe sugges­tions Estroff made to improve the
taking medication whose side ef­fects make the patients' illness 
programs were: improve clinical noticeable." 
treatment, establish patient-run in­stitutions, do more research, help patients find jobs, and find means of gainful unemployment for those who are incapable ofworking. 


SueEstoff" 

"The biggest problem with deinstinnionalization is that the 
·patients can't 11nd jobs. Most ofthem receive their income from various wellare program~ and spend most of their day idle. This certainly does nothing to boost their selt:pride.·· 
"Do these people really have more independence?" asked Estroff. "Could it be that they are better off in institutions?" 
She went on ro say that society is unwilling to take responsibility for the mentally ill. "We put them into mental institutions," she said,"to have others take care ofthem for us. But after a while when the cost bur­den gets too heavy, we try to have them put back into society. When \}'e deinstitutionalize the me1_1tally 

The Observer Tuesday, March 8, 1983 -page 4 

A Salvadoran soldierhelpsclear the wayfor the vehicle carrying Pope john Paul II Sunday as be 
continuedfrom page 1 
Mark Mai attributed this to fear of off-campus crime and suggested the University "work more with the neighborhoods" to solve that problem. Burke felt a lot ofthe crime problem stems from students' "laziness, due to (the accustomed protection of) dorm living" and not taking proper security precautions. 
The Senate passed 9-3 a fiscal policy which advocates not funding "any club or organizatio.n which prohibits membership on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, na­tional origin, academic standing, or on the basis of being handicapped but otherwise qualified." 
This policy will exclude all geographic clubs and clubs which do not have at least 75 percent un­dergraduate membership. 
The Senate was undecided on whether to fund club sports and left the issue for the next administration. Some senators favored funding only 
Big Brother;little Brother Program 
Collecting Basketball Tickets for the Thursday, March 10th Northern Iowa Game 
Collection at North and South Dining Halls from 5 · 6pm Tues., March 8 and Wed., March g 

????????????????????????????????????
.................................... 
~ ~II  Are You Registered for the Draft?  
Ci!RJPUS m1n1stry  Are You Concerned About the Possibility of Being Drafted into the Military?  

Do You Think You Might Be A Conscientious ObJector? 
Would You Like to Know What Being A Conscientious Objector Entails? 
If These Questions Are of Concern to You, Then You Should Inquire About 
REGISTRATION & 
DRAFT COUNSELING at Campus Ministry Badin all** *239-5242 
• • • Senate 
sports which do not have a cut, but Callaghan noted, "sports have to have a cut to keep numbers reasonable." 
To insure proper allotment of funds, clubs wll now be given money upon presentation of receipts for costs. This will pertain to on-campus as well as off-campus expenses. 
A resolution to place students on administration committees was tabled by the Campus Life Council just before the Student Senate meeting. Vice-Presdent for Student Affairs Father John Van Wolvlear told Burke such resolutions were "out of his jurisdiction" and he can "only request such changes." 
Student Union Director Steve Strake said Dean of Students James Roemer told him "the CLC is just an advisory board." 
Burke said, "if the CLC can't in­fluence policy, I don't see what it's for. Students," he said, "are the only agents ofchange in this university." 
Several amendments proposed 



Pope appeals for human rights 
GUATEMALA CITY (AP)-Pope John Paul II made an impassioned appeal to Guatemala's military presi­dent yesterday to protect human life and due process of law despite his right-wing regime's war against left­ist guerrillas. 
The pontiff also gave the Roman Catholic Church's emphatic support to the country's large numbers of Maya-descended Indians, who often are discriminated against and abused. 
The Pope, on the fifth stop of his eight-nation tour, met privately with President Efrain Rios Montt, a general and a born-again Christian who last week ignored a Papal plea to call off the execution of six con­victed leftist terrorists. 
"I urge government leaders, espe­cially those who feel the flame of Christian faith in their hearts, to car­ry out measures so justice can reach 
two weeks ago have passed the hall councils. An amendment to place elected officials on the Steering Committee passed 20-3, and one to 
make the student body treasurer chairman of the Budget Committee and change the procedure for scheduling voting on petitions passed 18-5. 
The Off-Campus Council has yet to vote on an amendment which proposes to change the terms "referendum" and., "initiative." Pangborn Hall abstained on all amendments. 
The Senate unanimously passed a resolution to make MCI telephone converters available to students at the Stepan Mall next year at "the lowest possible price." Senator 
Chris Tayback said this route was being used because "it would cost half a million dollars to convert the phone system to touch-tone." Touch-tone phones are the only al­ternative to converters. 
Ira Progoff Intensive Journal Workshop® 
March 19 and 20 Indiana University at South Bend 237-4261 


Corby's 
"TuesdQy Night 
~ SpeciQI" 8pm-3Qm _ 
~ 


ffiolson Gold Night Jl.OO bottle 
PteSt. Pattlck's Day+ "patty" 
op•n 11:30 Qm to~OIIOW 
the less protected," the Pontiff told 500,000 people at an outdoor Mass. 
"Above all social, political, ideological, racial and religious dif­ferences, let the life of your brother be guaranteed." 
The throng, which applauded fre­quently, included thousands of In­dians from more than 25 tribes who make up 60 percent ofthe seven mil­lion population. Dressed in colorful blankets, they performed native dances and played the marimba. 
Rios Montt, installed by the military as president last year after a coup, greeted the Pope as a "messenger ofpeace." ButJohn Paul remained upset over the executions last Thursday after he arrived in Central America. 
The Vatican sid there would be "serious repercussions" but did not elaborate In the past the Holy See has cut off or downgraded diplomatic relations with countries that strongly displeased the Pope. 
Four major leftist groups have been fighting a guerrilla war for more than five years, and an es­timated 6,000 people hve been killed including Indian peasants caught in the crossfire. The govern­ment has executed 10 people as left­ist subversives since last September, when it instituted secret tribunals and the death penalty. 
Rios Montt last week defended his 
refusal to heed the Papal plea for 
clemency, saying he had an obliga­
tion "to carry out the law." But he 
claims he has curbed human rights 
abuses including those by right­
wing death squads. 

After the Mass in Guatemala City, 
the Pope flew to Quezaltenango, the 
country's second-largest city, 140 
miles west of the capital and 7,900 
feet high. Indians from all over the 
country and from neighboring 
Mexico trekked there to see him. 


Blizzard buries Dakotas 

BISMARCK, N.D. (AP) -A bliz­zard blocking highways with chest­high drifts whistled through the Dakotas on yesterday, yanking down -power lines and closing schools, while Dixie got another dose of drowning rain. 
At least six transmission towers toppled in the cities ofBismarck and Minot, N.D., under the weight ofice forming several inches thick, with 40-mph winds producing wind chill factors of2 5 degrees below zero and drifts four feet high. 
But spring came early elsewhere, with temperatures in the 70s in parts ofNewYork and Ohio and in the up­per 70s in West Virginia. Record high temperatures were recorded in places such as Milwaukee. Min­neapolis set new high marks for most ofthe first week ofMarch. 
By contrast, the northern Black Hills ofSouth Dakota got up to a foot of new snow in what Butte County Highway Superintendent Clarence Schafer called the worst storm ofthe season. 
"We've got a lot of blocked roads," he said. "It is hard plowing and now the wind is blowing. It blew all last night." 
In Colorado andWyoming, where the same storm -which hit Califor­nia last week -dumped up to 3 feet of snow over the weekend, some major highways such as Interstate 80 between Cheye .nne and Laramie, Wyo., remained closed by blowing snow. Snowplows cleared the run­ways at airports in Denver and Cheyenne and hundreds ofstranded travelers were back in the air. 
The Observer 
Mountains become subject of study 
By POLLY HUDAK leaders, Professor Keith Rigby and .VewsStaff Father James Rigert. also associate professors in the Earth Sciences 
The Appalachian Mountains will 
department Glen Gorsky, 1975be the subject of study during the 
Notre Dame graduate and currentlyNotre Dame Earth Sciences Depart­an engneering geologist, will be ament spring field trip. 
special guest on the trip.

The trip, which counts as one credit for the 32 Earth Science 
Planning for the geology field trip majors who are participating, will 
has been well underway: four begin March 12 and will last for one 
meetings were scheduled prior to week. 
the trip to familiarize the students Included in the itinerary are stops 
with the route they will follow andin Virginia. Kentucky, Tennesee, the type ofobservations they shouldNorth Carolina and Georgia. As they be looking for.
follow the Appalachian range from state to state, students will observe "The Spring Field Trip is a great the composition and structure ofthe way to put all the learning we've rock in the mountains. done to use," says senior geology 
"The whole notion ofthe trip is to major Hilary Clement, "and it understand the geological historv, 
prepares·geology students for the 5­
origin and development of the Ap­
8 week summer field camp program,palachian Mountains," says the trip's 
which is required for all students
leader, William Fairly, associate who wish to go on to graduateprofessor in the Earth Sciences school."
department. 

Tuesday, March 8, 1983-pages. 
tains a coffee shop, prayer room, and seminar rooms for general use. (Photo by Lucian Niemeyer) 
Fairly, who received his doctorate degree in geology at John Hopkins University, has done much field work in Appalachia, himself. 
• • • PACE 
His expertise will complement 
the directon of the other trip 

'Observer' announces EdBoard 
The Observer has announced ap­pointments to its 1983-84 Editorial and General boards. The following will serve on the Editorial board: Paul McGinn, executive editor; joseph Musumeci, produc­tion/graphics editor; Mike Riccardi, sports editor; Scott Bower, photo editor; Anne Monastyrski, Saint Mary's editor; and Sarah Hamilton, features editor. The following will ·serve on the General board: Daniel 
O'Hare, business manager; Alex 
Szilvas, controller; Chris Owen, 
advertising manager; Mark Miorto, 
circulation manager; Bruce Oakley, 
systems manager. 
continuedfrom page 1 

Wruck said the tranSfer of the ad­mmistrative functions to the Hewlett-Packard system will not be completed until the end of 1984. 
Even when the H-P system has begun to operate at its full potential, Wruck said there is a possibility that the demand for computers will have grown beyond the capability of the IBM system. It is scheduled to be replaced in 1986. 
"There is nothing wrong with the system, but what is happening is that sometimes we push the computer beyond what it should do," he said, noting that the IBM system is used more than a system of its size is ac­tually designed to. 
"Any other IBM 370/168 is not taking so many customers. Our capacity is lower than demand is, but we provide the resources that the University needs, regardless," he said. 
Spencer explained the problem the lack of integration between the systems presents: use of a microprocessor requires one ter­




Epton"S candidacy no longer 'ajoke' 
CHICAGO (AP) -When the cities of the nation -may turn to 
Republicans shopped for a mayoral Epton on April 12. nominee la.'it fall, a clown and an out­"just as blacks flocked together to of-work philosopher applied. create a victory for washington, Veteran lawmaker Bernard Epton whites will flock together to create 
got the nod instead -but to some it an alternative," says john Hoellen, was still a laughing matter. the GOP candidate in 1975. 
After all, it's been more than 50 Other Republicans who years since a Republican sat in City represent about 20 percent of Hall. There's not even a Republican Chicago's registered voters -say in the City Council. it's the divided Democrats and a 
And when Epton, a 61-year-old political machine without oil that's GOP millionaire lawyer, accepted a sparked new fire in Epton's cam­draft. not many were eager to wager paign. any money on a Republican victory "Two-thirds of the people who in 1983. Not even the candidate. voted ..backed losers," says J 
''The Democratic machine is Robert Barr, Cook County .1wesome and, if you are a betting Republican chairman. man. I sure ...wouldn't bet a Jot of Washington garnered 36 percent money on me," Epton said months of the vote. which was divided along ago. racial lines. Mayor jane :\1. Byrne and 
:'>iuw, two weeks after the State's Attorney Richard M. Daley, pnmarics, the odds have changed. son ofthe late mayor, split .Ilmost all So, too. has the mood in Chicago. ofthe white vore. Hardly anyone snickers when the "When you have almost two­GOP talks about putting one oftheir thirds of the Democratic voters own in the mayor·~ chair. losing their candidate, there is a 
The rea.'ion is V.S. Rep. Harold fertile field for my election," Epton Washington's upset win in the bitter says. "That means he (Washington) three-way Democratic primary. is not the people's choice." 
With Washington one step away Epton says he will appeal to from being Chicago's first black "disenchanted Democrats." But it mayor, speculation has increased wasn't until Feb. 23, the day after the that some white voters -in one of primary, that he began receiving the the most geographically segregated ·help to do that. 
minal, but if a student wants to access information or use the IBM 360 or the Hewlett-Packard system, he or she has to move to different terminals. Using the three systems requires three terminals. 
"What we are trying to achieve is to have the terminals accessible to all three systems," Spencer said. Brown University has such a setup, and Spencer is studying their system as a possible model for his project. 
There are as many uses for com­puters at Notre Dame as there are people wanting to usc them. Wruck said the computer center provides support for University computer projects including administrative backup, academic and research computing, and data communica­tion. , 
Data base programming is one of the most used functions of the data communication system at Notre Dame -a part of computing that Notre Dame is fast gaining national respect in. According to Vice Presi­dent of Advanced Studies Robert Gordon, data bases can be best be described as an "automated library." They can locate information critical in research projects in a fraction of the time it would take by hand­sorting indexes and card catalogs. 
And information is not limited on­ly to scientific data or research bibliographies that such data bases can -and do -provide. 
"Ifwe wanted to know how many awards every professor of the Biol­ogy department has received in the last 10 years," Gordon said, "we would be involved in an enormous amount ofclerical time. Ifwe had all that data in a data base we could have the information at the touch of a button." 
Gordon said data on individual departments can help in planning the course of advanced studies at Notre Dame. 
"We can know which department has been most active in research and awarding doctorates. With this data we can easily evaluate what needs should be addressed," he said. 
The IBM computer system is al­ready connected to certain data base 
systems in the nation, which proves especially helpful to campus resear­chers. Notre Dame computers are literally able to "talk" with the Social Research Lab at the University of Michigan and with the Census 
Bureau in Washington. 
Notre Dame has its own data base at the Radiation Laboratory which supplies physical data and bibliographical data on photo and radiation chemistry. Coordinated by Alberta Ross, it is the only radiation data base in the country. 
The Notre Dame biology depart­ment, under the direction of com­puter expert and department chairman Theodore Crovello, offers 52 programs and 23 data banks to researchers in industry, government and universities. 
"Computers are an extension ­not replacements -of our senses," Crovello said. "In research, I see greater and greater uses of the com­puter. We want (Notre Dame resear­chers) to be able to find the needle in the haystack of information more efficiently:" 

Wild Wheel 

Crab Races! 
Every Tuesday night in the Terrace Lounge, experience Wild Wheel Crab Races! FREE Registration 

at 8:30 p.m. select a crab from our stable, and anxiously await the 9:00p.m. post time! Prizes will be awarded to the winners. 
Between races, drink discount prices will be spinning on our Wild Wheel! Wherever the wheel stops, that's the price for drinks during the next 15 minutes, as low as 50¢! 
Come out of your shell at the Terrace Lounge every Tuesday for South Bend's only Wild Wheel Crab Races! 



Business & Technology_Tue_.;_sday,_Marc_hs,1_983~pa..;;;..,_,ge6 
Wall Street Update 

Stock prices eked out a small advance Monday, postin~ record highs for the fifth session in a row. Trading dropped off a btt from last week's very active pace. The DowJones average of 30 in­dustrials, which showed a loss of more than 7 points midway through the day, was up .78 at 1,141.7 4 by the close. In the past five days the average has risen 29.12 points. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 84.02 million shares, down from 90.93 mil­lion Friday. Analysts said the market yielded briefly to selling by traders cashing in on the recent gains in the prices of many stocks. But they said enthusiasm over lower oil prices and signs ofeconomic recovery helped keep the pullback from gathering much force. The daily tally on the Big Board showed about five issues rising in price for every four that declined. -AP 
Science Update 
Researchers at Boston's Massachusetts General Hospital have developed a test that can measure the amount of cardiac muscle damage by a heart attack and map the precise location ofthe damaged area. The new procedure, which can give results in as little as two hours, should help doctors plan treatment in the critical period just after the onset of an attack. "What we're interested in is acting quickly to minimize damage to the heart muscle,"says Dr. Edgar Haber, leader of the Boston group. The new test is based on the fact that when heart cells die, they rupture and expose a protein called myosin within them. Haber's team identified and produced a natural substance that, when injected into the blood stream, sticks to the newly exposed myosin and forms a pattern detectable by a spe­cial instrument. The test, says Haber, provides information faster than any other procedure used to measure heart-cell damage, but will probably not be available for widespread use for several years. -Discover 


Economic Update 
Yields on short-term Treasury securities rose moderately in Monday's auctions, reaching the highest level since mid-February, officials said. The government sold about S6.2 billion in new three­month T-bills at an average discount rate of8.205 percent, up from the 7.944 percent of last week. In addition, about 56.2 billion in six-month bills were sold at an average rate of 8.171 percent, up from 7.948 percent. The rates were the highest since the Feb. 14 yields of 8.256 percent for three-month bills and 8.389 percent for six-month bills. The new discount rates understate the actual return to investors-8.52 percent for three-month bills and 8.67 percent for six-month bills. -AP 
The Defense Departtnent is honoring the Ben­dix Corp's Guidance Systems Division in Mishawaka for the quality of products and services provided to the military. The award, the second one for the Mishawaka plant in as many years, is part of the Defense Logistics Agency's Contractor Assessment Program. -AP 

AM Genet·al Corporation has been awarded a 
535.1 million contract by the U.S. Army to supply 737 special purpose bodiesfor five-ton military trucks. The contract, announced by the Defense Department last week, calls for AM General to manufacture the truck bodies in the South Bend plant. AM general is to make 260 van bodies and 477 wrecker bodies for the five-ton Army truck, a Defense Department spokesman said. The American Motors Corp. subsidiary also manufactures the five-ton· truck at South Bend under a contract totaling more than S600 million. -AP 

Tucker Freight Lines, the largest trucking firm based in South Bend, has beguncuts in wages, days t off and sick leave in response to a 1982 Joss of more than S2 million. The cutbacks at Tucker are aimed at restoring profitability, according to a series of letters to employees from Samuel Raitzin, Tucker's president. Tuck­er, a privately owned carrier, operates from terminals in seven Mid­west states and Tennessee. "The reductions are a violation of the contract," said Roland Wardlow, president ofTeamsters Local 364. Wardlow said his local in South Bend and 19 Teamsters locals representingTucker employees in otherstates have filed a grievance seeking restoration ofpay and other contract provisions. -AP · 

Avert collapse 




OPEC leaders delay summit 
ready for a full meeting. "We need more time for consulta­tions," he said. The price issue is particularly critical because Nigeria, one . of OPEC's largest producers, decided last month to lower its price by $5.50 a barrel to $30 without asking the consent ofthe full group. That opened the door for a pos­sible price war among OPEC mem­bers, many of whom are eager to increase their sales in a glutted market. OPEC, which was created in 1960, has reduced its base price on­ly once -by $2 to S34 a barrel in October 1981. 
LONDON (AP) -OPEC leaders reduction in the Organization of decided yesterday to postpone their Petroleum Exporting Countries' of­summit for at least 24 hours, ap­ficial base price. parently in a last-ditch try to per­He also demanded Saudi Arabia's suade the maverick Iranians to production quota be slashed 1 mil­accept a price cut and save the lion barrels to 3 million a day -the world oil cartel from collapse. same level Iran is believed seeking 
Venezuelan Oil Minister Hum­for itself Iran is currently producing berto Calderon Berti said the sum­2.7 million barrels daily. mit, originally set for yesterday, was Despite Iran's tough stance, In­put off at the suggestion of Iran, donesian Oil Minister Dr. Subroto which wants the base price kept at said "optimism is still there" for 
$34 because it sells its oil ~S8 reaching agreement. cheaper on the spot market. But Mana Saeed Oteiba, the oil 
Mohammad Gharazi, the Iranian minister of the United Arab oil minister, told reporters his Emirates, told reporters he did not country "will never" agree to a think the 13 OPEC ministers were 
Traders motion on the floor of New York's Commodity Exchange Monday. Gold prices stabilized somewhat in the wake ofthe previous 
Soviet supremacy 


U.S. seeks to deter chem warfare 
By FRANK GABRIELE 
B&T Reporter 
"...the use in warofasphyxiating, poisonous or other gases, and ofall analogous liquids, materials or devices bas been justly condemned by the general opinion of the civilized world... " 
United States Army manual FM­27-10 The l.aw ofLand Warfare 
The use of chemical agents for wartime activities was introduced by the Chinese around 1000 A.D. as gunpowder. In modern uses, the term "chemical warfare" evokes a much greater militarily strategic image -one which raises some im­portant moral issues as well as arous­ing a great deal offear. 
Chemical warfare is one of the three types of modern warfare con­sidered "unconventional,"or "not ~anctioned by common usage or practical deployment." The other two types are nuclear warfare and bacteriological warfare. Currently, the U.S.S.R. has an active program in each ofthese three, while the United States is involved in the production of both chemical and nuclear arma­ments but not bacteriological ones. 
The most recently known use of chemical warfare was by the Soviets in Mghanistan in the latter part of 1982. Indications of bacteriological deployment were also present. The 
U.S.S.R. maintains a very strong chemical program and has done so since its introduction into modern military strategy. In the 1970's, the United States slowed and even halted its chemical warfare research and development while the U.S.S.R. was actively stockpiling chemical armaments. 
The United States, although cur­rently engaged in revitalizing its chemical weapons program, does not see or hope to present this area as a grounds for another arms race. The explicitly stated objective ofthe American chemical warfare program is "to deter the use of chemical weapons, and to give in­centive to the Soviet Union to join in seeking a complete and verifiable ban on the development, produc­tion, and stockpiling of such weapons." Both countries are bound to the Geneva Protocol regarding uses of chemical agents, though the 
U.S. reserves the right to free them­selves from this agreement should any enemy fail to respect the agree­ment first. 
Although the United States recognizes the immense superiority of Soviet chemical warfare capabilities (estimated to be fifty times as strong), they are meeting the risk with a balance of moderacy and money. A statement from the Secretary ofDefense'sPub/ic Affairs 
Guidance publication reads: "We need not, and will not, plan to match the Soviets in (chemical) agent/munition quantities or types." On the very same page, though, the document outlines the military spending in the area of chemical warfare research and development within the past five years: S 111 mil­lion in 1978, with an increase to $532 million in 1982 and $705 mil­lion for the fiscal year 1983, but with only 30 percent devoted to of­fensive agents. In light of the S200 billion defense budget allocated for 1983, this is hardly a drop in the pen­tagon bucket 
The soaring chemical warfare issue has even touched down recently on our very own campus. It is rumored that the juniors in the Notre Dame Army R.O.T.C. received lecture and training in chemical weapons defense, utilizing up-to­date protective equipment, protective suits, and decontaminat­ing agents. According to Lieutenant Colonel Robert H. Webster, profes­sor of military science, "It's obvious that the Soviets are very interested in their chemical warfare ... but we have considerable retaliatory capabilities." It is also obvious that the army is not taking the Soviet threat lightly and is going to the con­siderable expense of training c:vcn their reserve personnel in defensive measures. 
Although it is not in the public spotlight as much as the more hotly contested nuclear issue, chemical warfare is a serious national con­cern. As was exemplified in M­ghanistan, the Soviets cannot be trusted to adhere to the binding protocol and the general sentiment of the United States is that it cannot hope to engage in reduction talks until it improves its capabilities suffi­ciently enough to gain bargaining advantage. 



Editorials 
Tuesday, March 8, 1983 -page 7 
European peace movement: final victor? 
If you have absolute faith in the words of here in Britain, I have been able to come to Although I have met perhaps five or six of on the European continent and on the Brit~sh our President, you probably believe that the some conclusions about them. the English "Greens" who consider them­Isles, a fear which the widely-reported com­anti-nuclear Peace movement here in Europe These people have no "misguided trust' or selves "socialist," I have yet to meet a self­ment·by Ed Meese mentioned at the begin­is either, (a) communist and Soviet-inspired, "deceived opinions" concerning the motives ·proclaimed "communist" in the peace ning of this article does absolutely nothing to 
Robert Lloyd Snyder 
(b) led by those without the bac)bone to ofthe Soviet Union. The activists whom I have movement. I have not yet found an individual soothe. Nearly every pe1son involved in the stand up to the Soviets, (c) led by individuals met have no great love of the Soviet Union or who believed that the Soviet system of peace movement whom I have conversed unwittingly duped by Soviet agents, (d) a its policies. The most marked characteristic of government was preferable to either that of with at length has voiced the suspicion that small minority of people, or (e) all of the these people is not their "pro-Soviet" at· England or the United States; nor have I found the United States and Soviet Union plan to above. These are all conclusions that the titudes, but rather their distrust ofall military an individual within this movement that did resolve their long-standing conflict while White House would have had us believe in the establishments, especially that of the current not feel that the Soviet Union was a horrific destroying all ofCentral and Western Europe last year when it chose to downplay the peace U.S. government. oppressor of human rights Soviet bloc -a in the process. These people do not want to movement that is afoot in Europe. (Also, we While most of those that I have encoun­good deal of those I found wearing anti­get caught in the American-Soviet nuclear must not forget that the President's main ad­tered felt that the intent ofthe United States in nuclear badges here in London also wore crossfire. While they do not believe that the visor has observed that limited nuclear war in its military policies was generally benevolent, Solidarity buttons. leaders of either country are evil enough to the British are afraid that the United States Most of the people have favored an im­consciously plot out such a ghastly scenario, States might be pushed into a rash or fatal mediate freeze on nuclear stockpiles, they argued that in the next military conflict, decision by Soviet aggression in either the combined with an intensification in the arms escalation to limited nuclear war would Middle East or Western Europe. They are controls talks currently being held in Geneva probably be inevitable -with the possibilityOver there afraid of the high-stakes game of "chicken" (Although we Americans generally pay little that the superpowers might refrain from 
that has been conducted between the United heed to the progress of arms limitations talks directly issuing nuclear assaults upon each Europe is an option that is "possibly, not States and the Soviet Union since the 1950's with the Soviets here each daily development other's territory: Europe as the ultimate entirely desirable.") -and what concerns the Britons most is that in the talks makes banner headlines in the simulation. 
While it is easy for us, as Americans, to laugh the "chips" with which the United States and major London newspapers. The firing of Perhaps the very best summary of the off these White House gaffs by recognizing Soviet Union gamble is the fate of Western Eugene Rostow, a long-time arms control British peace movement was given by a shop­
that it is merely a political ploy by the Reagan Europe itself. negotiator for the United States and a keeper of 30 or so years, who claimed no par­administration, here in London it is not a This is a movement of mothers and fathers'' Democrat, by the Reagan Administration is ticular political affuiation and insisted that the laughing matter. Harsh words and gratuitous who fear for their lives and the future lives of widely being perceived as a serious setback to anti-nuclear movement was the first political dismissals ofthe anti-nuclear forces in Europe their children. This is a movement ofstudents progress on an arms control limitation in movement that he had ever joined. When do absolutely nothing to dismiss the European . who cannot comprehend the build-ups of 1983 by the British political analysts.) While queried why he had become an activist in this conception ofour President as being militari· nuclear weapons in the face of worldwide not as experienced in the nomenclature of matter, he replied: "Well, it's not exactly like ly adventurous, if not wreckless in his nuclear economic difficulty and starvation. This is a nuclear politics as leading political analysts, I campaigning for a political party, now is it? M­policies. Local comics doing impressions of movement of individuals who find nuclear believe that the average Briton has a better ter all, war is not exactly an election that can Reagan always make some type of military brinkmanship utterly repugnant on purely understanding of the various arms control be corrected five years down the pike. It's 
reference which the audience will automati­moral or theological grounds. This movemen~ proposals than does his American counter­people's lives, man. And those are some cally associate with this conception of the contains the aged, who remember the un­part: a Charleton Heston's soothing advice on· bloody big ballots that they'll be throwing at President. speakable horrors ofthe first two World Wars, the disadvantages of a nuclear freeze would each othef's heads, now, won't they? And if 
Although I have talked with only a half­and who cannot comprehend the preparation not sell very well in Britain. you're living in Germany, or London, you dozen or so active participants of the Peace for a new world war which would escalate the The prospect which frightens Britons the know for sure that your head is going to get in Movement (as they prefer to call themselves) carnage ofwar to inconceivable levels. most is the possibility of limited nuclear war the way." 
P. 0. BoxQ 
to love your neighbor as yourself. That it was respond. As two senior students who have representation of the traditional Lenten 
practiced here in the context of a sport, been involved in Campus Ministry for the colors, presented to challenge the Saint which in other times and places has been past four years, we have seen a group ofded­Mary's community to personally reflect on DearEditor: brutal and even fatal, is one more indication icated people committed to creating an en­the Lenten message. 
To the 1982-83 Varsity Hockey Team, that Notre Dame is a special place. vironment that will stimulate spiritual We encourage you during this Lenten Lefty, Lenny, Terry, Jeff; and everyone else joe Huebner growth. We realize that this task is not an season to reflect on God's presence in your involved: Saying "we'll miss you" doesn't Librarian, Memorial Library easy one given the diverse spiritual needs of life, and invite you to respond to his chal­even come close to how we feel. Without the Saint Mary's community. Yet, through lenge to become involved. you, the winters will be much longer and our involvement we are aware that Campus Cecilia Telang colder. Ministry offers a variety oftraditional as well AngelaM. Casey 
Hockey goodbye 
ECO film: 1985 
We wish you all the best in whatever you as contemporary liturgical settings, through 
choose to do next year. DearEditor: which the spiritual needs ofour community Editor'sNote: The appearance ofletters to Please remember us here; as we will never Tonight the ND-SMC community will can be met. the editor is subject to the daily space con­forget you. have its first real opportunity to show its One of the ways students at Saint Mary's straints of the editorial page. Letters should Thank you. support for the newest student organization can actively respond to the call of G.od is be under 250 words and address specific Katie Wesolowski on campus: ECO (the Environmental Con­through involvement in liturgical Planning. issues. They must be typed and bear the 
(Placement Bureau) cerns Organization). At 7:30p.m. in the Cen­Campus Ministry exists for, and repeatedly address, telephone number, and signature of Pam Krauser ter for Social Concerns we will be invites student input. One such dedicated the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not 
jenny Neizgodzki presenting, free of charge, the film 1985, group of students has chosen to respond to acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, which depicts the possibility of a total col­God through their involvement in Environ­or letters addressed to persons other than lapse of the environment. This represents mental Ministry. The banner that presently i:he editor are not acceptable. All letters are the first ofour efforts to foster environmen­hangs in the Holy Cross Chapel is an abstract subject to editing.

Bengal bout love 
tal awareness on political, legislative, and lo­cal levels, and to involve the campus
DearEditor: 
community in various projects to improveThere were a number of things that made the earth's natural quality.
last Sunday afternoon's Bengal Bouts' cham­We would like to encourage the studentpionship a meaningful as well as an body to consider its responsibility towardsenjoyable experience. 
the environment and to join us in our effort.
But what struck me most, along with the We invite all to attend 1985 tonight and togood boxing, was how concern for others participate in our further activities.

permeated the event. "Nappy" Napolitano, 
Pam Homer
in his appearance in the ring, pointed out 
Mike McCann
that the purpose ofthe Bouts was to help the 
Diane Kozak
suffering poor in Bangladesh. The referees 
Officers ofECO
and others in charge ofthe program saw to it that no boxercontinued fighting if there was any chance he could be injured. And in the superheavyweight match, after Andreini had 

Lenten ban 
fallen to the floor. his opponent, Panelli, came over to his corner to make sure he had DearEditor: not been seriously hurt. In response to the article "Lenten Season" 
There could be no more concrete ex­(March 4) regarding the quality ofliturgy at ample of following the ancient admonition Saint Mary's College, we feel called to 
IheDbserver==== Editorial Board DepartmentManagers 
Box Q, NotreDame, IN 46556 

Editor-in-Cbief..............................Michael Monk BusinessManager.............................Tony Aiello
The Obsenlf!T is the independent newspaper published by the student$ of the Uqi­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes 'Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
versity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
ExecutiveNewsEditor ..............David Dziedzic AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the ;;.dministration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMCExecutiveEdttor............Margaret Fosmoe 1Production Manager..................Maura Mu~hy
curately ana :>.s objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
I
SportsEditor...................................Chris Needles 'Circulation Manager......................Mark Mi.btto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
I
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn ·SystemsManager...........................Bruce Oaik.ley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is avajlable to aU members ofthe community, 
Features Edttor ............................)oe Musumeci I
and the free expression ofvaryingopinionson_Ol!Jlp_us, through letters, is encouraged 
Photo Editor........................... : .......Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(2!9)239-5303·. 





~~j)()~tS=JEJ~~~i=~~=S======~~======================T=u=e=sd=a=y,=M=a=rc=h=8=,1=9=8=3==p=a=ge==8
By The Obserz•er and The Associated Press 
Finish indoor season 
The interhall office has announced a new set of 


Track team outmatched in IC4A 
deadlines for its spring sports. This Thursdav, March 10, is the John McCloughan and sophomore Van Pearcy each made the semifinals in their respective events. the high hurdles and the SOO-meter run, while freshman Allen Pinkett made it to the quarter-finals in the 60-yard dash. 

Unfortunately for Notre Dame and sophomore Jim Tyler, the meet did not pass without controversy. In what Piane termed a "bush-call," IC4A track officials disqualified Tyler for pushing a Penn State run­ner. 
"I think that I didn't do it," said Tyler, a Norwood, N.Y. "I watched the t11ms afterward, and it looked like one of the fellows tried to squeeze in between myself and the other guy and he pushed the Penn State guy out, not me." 
Erratum 
In yesterday's paper, it was in­correctly reported that Scott Hicks, who will join the basket­ball team next year, had missed a crucial one-on-one opportunity which led to his team's upset loss. In fact, it was one ofHicks' lesser· known teammates that missed the shot. The Observer regrets the error. 
deadline for signups for the following sports: int~rhall men's softball, interhall women's softball, interhall baseball, interhall women's soc­cer, and an open soccer tournament (limited entry). Also, the inter· hall wrestling tournament will start the first week after spring break. Watch The Observer for an announcement of the date. NVA also an­nounced that open racquetball players must play and report their scores by today. For more information, call the office at 239-6100. ­
The Observer 
Mud Volleyball registration continues today. 
The registration will take place in the ballroom on the second floor of LaFortune from II a.m. to 1 p.m. and 4 to 6 p.m. Team rosters should be comprised of6-8 people. Acaptain must be identified with a phone number, and the ID numbers of all players must be in· eluded. Additional rules will be given at registration. -The Ob­seroer 
The Notre Datne lacrosse teatn scored an 
easy victory Sunday in its final warmup before starting its regular season, cruising to a 29-9 rout of the Northwestern Lacrosse Club. Freshman Joe Franklin led all scorers with five goals, while sopho­more Bob Trocchi added four. A season preview of this year's team will appear in The Observer later this week. -The Observer 
An Tostal Inner Tube Water Polo still has eight spots open. This will round the field out at 64 teams. Ifanyone is still interested in registering a team, call Cathy Trusela at 6861 sometime today. Registration will close at midnight. -The Observer 

By DEAN SULLNAN 
Sports Writer 
"We did fairly well, considering 
the competition." 
That was the way Notre Dame track coach joe Piane described his squad's performance over the weekend at the IC·lA track meet in Princeton, New jersey. 
The IC--!A, consisting strictly of eastern schools and Notre Dame, was an Ill-team meet with some of the best college teams in the nation. The East has traditionally been home for most track powers and lived up to its reputatio-n once again as the Irish runners had all they could handle. Perennial favorite Vil­lanova eventually. won the pres­tigious contest. 
Notre Dame was led by co-captain Steve Dziabis, who placed second in the 400-yard dash in a speedy 48.2 seconds, and sophomore James Pat­terson, who took third in the long jump with a leap vf23 feet, o.te-half inch. 
Piane also got a good performance from his distance relay team ofJohn McNelis, Jan Kania, co-captain Jim Moyar, and Tim Cannon. The foursome breezed to the finish line in 9:53, good enough for fifth place. 
There were a. few other standout performances. Graduate student Nevertheless. Tyler is not letting 
the incident affect his confidence in 
this upcoming weekend's NCAA In­
door meet in Detroit. 

IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame is getting ready to take its act outside as it begins its outdoor season with the Notre Dame Invitational on March 26th. 
• • • SMC 
continuetlfrom pap,e 12 
Studer. and Casey swam away with I I th-place. Finally. it took an inspir­ing performance by anchorperson Byrne to lead the --100-meter medlev squad consisting of Studer, Case~. and Whalen took I I th-place for the Belles. 
"We have done well all season in the relay events and Nationals were no exception," said coach Scott Trees. 
The swim team returns home with an unprecedemed number of all-America athletes among its ranks. Eight swimmers were awarded with the honor after the meet. The recipients included Casey, Whalen, Studer, Byrne, Cathy Murray, Julie Maier, and Ambrose, who received both NAIA and National Association ofCollege Swim Coaches honors. 

The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classtfieds to appear 1n the next issue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to insertion. All classtfteds must be prepatd. 
etther tn person or through the matI.




Classifieds 
LOST-woman's gold Timex welch; In ATLANTA atlanta ATLANTA DC-MD-VA need r1de to PEORIA, B•adley u.. can DC-MD-VA or near O'Shag on 3/1. I am very unhap­Need r1de to Atlanta for break. Can leave Need nde to D.C for break. Can leave af­leave Thurs. 3/10 aHer 4 p.m. call She1la Need r1de to D. C area for break Can
NOTICES 

py Without 1t--return 11 to me and name Fnday noon. Maybe someone go1ng thru ter noon Fr~day. Call Pete at 277-0838. 2911 leave after noon on Fnday. Call Pete at your reward!! Ltz x6825 FLORIDA can help. Call Dave at x6931. 277-0838 TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 Quick I Need r~ders to Ph1lly '" rental. call APEX ROCKS SENIOR BAR WED NITE Lost: RING OF KEYS--Volkswagen car Luc1an 289-8363 or leave message. 10TIL2 NOBIS I TYPING key, approx 9 others please return to ..... ............................ . Congratulations to NOBIS for their stirnng 
Desperately need ride to Washington
Jack1e Boggs Metallurgical Eng. Off1ce or call 6328 and I NEED RIDE.BACK FROM JACKSON­Little Sibs-Buffalo-Philadelphia Anyone 5th place f1n1sh 1n the Nazz Mus•c Com­
DC area. Can leave as early aa 
684-8793 leave message for Dave. Thank you. VILLE FLA AFTER BREAK. CALL DAVE who has brothers/s1sters commg tor Ltttle petition. and thetr memorable encore per­
Thursday 3/10. W1ll be delighted to share 1850 Sibs Weekend, Apnl 15-17, buses from formance Saturday 01' Nobis h1mself
usual. Please call Maureen at 7978. 
IYPING IN MY HOME (RESUMES, LET-FOUND NOTRE DAME JACKET AT the Buffalo and Phtladetphta area are was turntng tn hts grave! Just goes to 
TERS. REPORTS. TERM STEPAN COURTS ON FEB. 24/25. I DESPERATELY need a nde to the oe•ng orgamzed. Roundtnp fare Buffalo show what a lot of talent and a little
DESPERATELY NEED 2 RIDES TO 
, PAPERS.ETC.) NEAT. ACCURATE IDENTIFY COLOR AND SIZE AND ITS MIAMI area I w•ll gladly share expenses $43 and Ph1lly $64. Reg1strat1on forms practice (very little) can do.
NEW JERSEY!! WILL SHARE USUAL 
WORK, REASONABLE RATES. 233-YOURS. CALL MIKE AT 277-2653 and leave anyt1me. DAN 1809 available tn the Student Government
CAN LEAVE 3/10. CALL MIKE 3389 
7009. Off1ce. Deadl1ne IS March 15. A ROSE LOVER LOST A br~ght blue knapsack w1th a Need r1de to MINN for break Share usual I had a GREAT t1me Saturday mght. I'm 
HELP' NEED RIDE TO BOS­
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans suede bonom. It contained a notebook, Call88t3 O.C.D.M. glad you asked me. Let's do 1t aga1n
TON.NH.ME.VT.OR EVEN 
-$20-$200 One percent mterest Due 1n keys and calculator. PLEASE return to SENIORS: Spread the words! somettme soon.
OUEBEC.CANADA! WILL SHARE 
one month. One day wa1t. Open M . F. room 334 P W or call2722. The contents (Isn't this great!) 
USUAL. CAN LEAVE FRI .MAR 11 
'1 :30-12:30 LaFortune Basement are needed for a group protect. Thank "MINISTRY IN TODAY'S CHURCH" 
PLEASE CALL 8580 OR 8588 THANKS 
NOTICE: LAST DAY FOR MAY '83 you Dear John, A lecture by 
GRADS TO APPLY IS MARCH 9 !!! Happy B-day day to the sweetest Domer Fr. Richard McBrien
FOR SALE

Need RIDE to CLEVELANO for break
PRINCE CHARMING Please return CIN­ever Hope thiS IS one of your best B­Cha1rman· of Notre Dames
Call Jack 1588 
~YPING IN MY HOME (resumes, letters. DERELLA's Sliver shoes that were used days. Department of Theology 
•eports. term papers, etc.), NEAT. AC­'" B-P's Screw-Your-Roommate I'm J J B. Tomorrow
Need 2 r1des to Eastern PA along 1-80 for
.s CURATE WORK, REASONABLE gomg barefoot now. Drop them outside MARCH9
Break. 1934 FOR SALE: >980 'Yamahopper MG. 
RATES. 233-7009. t43B-P. 1992 Noquest1onsasked. HEY BADINITES!! FOR AN ENERGIZED 7:00PM
Low m11eage. Excellent condition -$300. 
YEAR VOTE WHITEHOUSE/PREZ HOWARD HALL
RIDE NEEDED TO ST PAUL MN CALL Please call Dan at x6824
Ment1on: Hop1ng to WINCH a wench or NAKAGAWA/VP "THE RIGHT CON­
CHUCK 283-3472 SHARE USUAL
>\NCHOR a dude for your cab1n 1n NECTION" To the cast and crew of ~ 
3-0drm. bnck ranch, 611 E Angela. C/A 
FLORIDA next week? Well take a BOW Marethon 33: 
Need RIDERS back from PHILA area af­.md gas heal, 2-car garage. tam1ly room.
FOR RENT 

on land OAR sea. DECKed out 1n your 
FAL OH MA GAWD It's been 1 mo al­You ran out of guesses. rm your mother.
ter spnng break Leavmg 19 or 20. Call screened-•n porch, 2,500 sq ~ $69.000 
very own N.D. SAILING CltUB T-sh1rt. ready. thankx for maktng 1t the greatest It was a beauttful expenence. thanks very
L1nda, 4412. Call287-8721.
:::all Lou at6713! Love Your Pseudo-Mom much As for the party. to
House:4 bedroom. near NO, $250 per mo. Fall or summer No ut1ht1es. Phone Need 2 b1c ycles Call 7796 Baulo 
Dank.le and h1s sneep, celefl' stalkers, EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO Dear Secret Admtrer. woundt:Jd dancer~. tJgg makers. nat
(319) 322-8735. Patty Kr~schke 
TYPING. VERY REASONABLE RATES Thanks so much for the cookte It was wearers. rum drmk.ers. toilet fillers, and CALL287-5162. really great. but who are you ??? Gtve me others.
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT Need r1de to ROCHESTER or UPSTATE 
at least a h1nt. 11 was beautiful. except for the carpet tn
PERSONALS

SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO 277-NY AREA for break. Please call MARK 
·Section Sale at Pandora's Books. 50 Patnck one room Let·s do tt agatn
3604 2103. 
oercent off Lileratu,. and Economics -Forbes this week only. Many other titles In HEY JUNIORS! SENIOR CLASS TRIP p.s-As tor Jtmmy Hoffa. we found htm,
Student Rental. 5-bedroom home $420 Need 2 rides 10 and/or from BALTIMORE 
stock at huge savings. Hurry In and TO THE BAHAMAS and he was chanm w1th the hshies 
mo. 233-6779. OR D.C area Can leave Thurs. aHer Need R1de To ConnectJcut For Spnng
you'll save. 937 So. S.nd Ave. or cell OCTOBER BREAK '83 
3:00 Will share usual. Call John 288· Break. Will Share Usual. Please Call Dan 
I 133-2342-
SIGN UP IN LAFORTUNE LOBBY WED Ht. Melinda! Heres your personal. Is tt too
5527 or Charles 1688 
at x6824 

6:30·8:00 personal? Love. Net Present Value p.s QUESTIONS? CALL x6874 or x1783 good luck 
NEED RIDE TO BAL TOMORE · WASH· ONE or TWO RIDES needed to the GAR· 
INGTON AREA FOR SPRING BREAK DEN STATE for Spnng Break. Yes, we do
1c~~~~~-;~-~~~--i ~--~_W_A_N_TE_D___J 

Mary, the Flond1an dynamo celebrates A1de Naeded 10 0''1f!re a~rport Fr~day.
CALL JANET 282 -2276 want to go to NEW JERSEY for break W1ll 
her 19th B-day thiS h1stor~c day . March 11 Must amve before 2 p.m. 
pay the uusual Please (PLEASE) call 
Chtcaqo ume. Call Dava at 1361. 11 need a

RIDE NEEDED TO ANYWHERE IN NEED 2 RIDES to OHARE Fnday 3/11 Sarah af 1361 or Mary at1272. Please!!! 
Everyone ts entitled to one mtstake---un­r~de back on the 19tn too 1 
HELP'!! I've lost a gold cross and chatn-­UPSTATE NEW YORK..BUFFALO. Arnv1ng B4 1 pm CALL 3766 or 2194 
fortunately, Jtm and Gtnger made thetrs 
Sat 01te 2/26, between Farley and 02 SYRACUSE ALBANY---WILL SHARE CONNECTICUT bound?! We need on March 8, 1964 Happy B·day Merry' 1 park1ng lot PLEASE call me. Kate. at USUAL--CALL CHRIS ANYTIME at 3510 Fort Lauderdale NEED RIOEII ?77-(desperately) ONE or TWO ndes to CON· MARTY WALL. 
Love. Mark & B1lly2369.00NOTCALLAF1ER 1UPM
)(3838 1f you have any tnfo--tt means a OR8573 NECliCUT for Spr1nq Break. Please cal' Your t1atr Qlf.1W5 ever longer wtth each .;Jreat deal to me. Mary at 1272 orSarah at1361. W1ll pay 
Merry. may your wtshec:; come true on . pas~tng rtay. Pui down your Moon•f! 
NEED RIDE TO N. VA/0 C AREA FOR Need nde to Rochester NY, tor bre.ak the usual 
vour btrthday and everyday. monlo"P ,~s, db.::lr"'dnn vour party ways and I Lost A gold religious medal w1th Mary on BREAK CAN LEAVE MARCH 10th. Call W1ll or Dan at 8674 
turn to rf•t. ,., Wfl reo•1ze your potential anr.l the front and Lynn Mane 5/9/71 on the CALL JIM AT 1763. HEADING FOR FUN IN THE SUN OFi we sao . tor 
:<otull me~~ vo·. the

Hey Grotto beach bums, We mtght 11ke oack It was lost on the way to the Credtt R1de needed to New York or Ph1Uy Must .IUi;;T HEADING SOUTH'' NEED 
tram;t'llqr~t•or ot soul~ Love aiY~ays­Un1on on Fnday. It IS of great senttmental RYDPLEEZ? MPLS SPRBRK DAVE leave Wednesday Call Will -8659 RIDERS TO MYRTLE BF ACHOR AIKEN Hare Knshna you better 1f we slept together (How abOut 
wtne & cheese at 4 am.?)
"aiuellf lound, please call x1271 1! 1039 thanx SOUTH CAROLINA/ .O.UGUST A GEOR· R1ders 'leeoed to N NJ-Southern NV GIA AREA CALL ED AT 233-6311 WILL 
to 1he blonde log, CRABS (or •s 1t clams?)
Someone claimed my black ski jacket LOVELY LASS needs ride to In­area. Cheap. Call Dan dt8795 or ti836 LEAVE FRIDIIY NIGHT 
from ACC Security about two wMks dianapolis for spnng break I can leave 

Ma")' Ann Potter To Susan (w1th perfect grammar & a Lev• 
ago. IT'S NOT YOURS. Please turn In to W~d. March 9. II you re go1ng my wav. R1ders wanted southoound thrlllndy, t-t35 ATLANTA atlanta All.ANl:A neeu nde to Hap~y ;·Oth DP1n<Hv to a oas•cally partv
)ack~ti Than-.s t0r vtstttng me at my desk 
J.f'? . returnmg to NO 3120. Call JAN at 8941. ChiC .-tnd we Nant to ctHebrat& With you! 
Lost & Found or contact me x1025. call L•sa at 3882 Thanks' tol-75toDavtona& Tampa Leav•ng3n 1 A.tlanta tor oreak Can leave r ·•day. noon. anu•J•e Vo1,1 ca Nt\11 <1.nd crazy SMC 
The Ark•e Pi; Stay out of the mens room 
Call Dove at 6931 LOST: Gold coin necklace Sunday RIDE NEEDED TO ROCH . NY FOR 
But wohcrp are tt'\ose mts&•ng j)IQ pants? Feb. 20 between North Dining Hall, BREAK WANDA 7770 1 need a nde FROM DC. aHer break Call MASHDEADI You ·•· 1 •• .:Jrea• fnend Hopt ,.,e celebrate 
Frank D. x1382 NEED 3 RIDES TO TOLEDO FOR mar. y rnore loyeth~~P.W., and the Library. If found please BREAK. CALL MARY LYNN SMC 40005 Lcve, your 1amtly dt ::-.MC ana me Dome
call x2966. R1ders needed to St Pete-f ampa area or 

SENIOR CLASS TAKE NOTE: Nom•na­LOST In C-D line of North: 1 blue N.D. friday 3/11 aHernoon Call Mark 287-A1ders needed to Dallas/ Ft J\lorth araa llons for Sen•or Class Ff!'llow w•ll take C-'uiif:i-j:................................................. 
en rt.. Share dnvmg ana gas Leav1ng TO IWR I-IO"I(fo'' TEAM·. YOUR PER­

Leav1ng March 1Q. return1ng March 20. place T ues & Wed March 8 & 9 ,n the FCRIIIAI'<CE rHtS PAST WEEKEND"~kpack, contains: 1 red "uni!Md" 5208 Call Mananne. 284·5107 d1n1ng nails 1C·D lines .n North) and Have a great 21st birthday! You·re d WAS OUTSTANOING! OUR MANYnotebook, Saul S.llow's THE VICTIM, 
LaFortuntt allunchtlrne Get out there and really spec.:tal s.ster! TRUl FANS WERE VERY PROUD OF mistake at Wed. lunch, PLEASE call and TIME mag. If you picked It up by 
RIDE NEEDED TO ST LOUIS Af1EA tor St1ll need nde to CINCINNATl !or let your chOICe oe heard! P S-No Alan Love. YOUI GOOD LUCK & WE LOVE YOUI 6830. break. Call Mary at 287 ·0372 break!Will share usual Terrv 15714 Aida s. please! Becky M.L.B.&J D. TRUf SMC FANS 
The Observer 
• • . Defense 
continuedfrom page 12 
to Northern Iowa Thursday), Notre man jim Dolan added 11 points, five inside. Plus Notre Dame was always Dame will finish 19-9. Among other rebounds and four assists. Tim coming after him hard. independents, Southwest Louisiana Kempton, meanwhile, literally 
"We were in the wrong thing is 21-4, South Carolina is 20-8, New fought his way to nine points and (offense), and that was my fault. Our Orleans is 20-6, Stetson is 19-9, Mar­eight rebounds while getting in­kids weren't getting Chapman the quette is 18-9, Dayton is 17-10 and volved in several skirmishes ... ball, and that was our fault. But DePaul is 16-10. Chapman was also pressed into six Notre Dame played very sound turnovers, contributing to a team to­
While the debate went on, "· 
defense." tal of 17. NO had just nine. 
Donoher sat quietly. His 1982As the clock wound down and Dayton team, which finished 1 9-8, with an Irish victory assured, the stu­

was snubbed by the NCAA and haddent section began a chant that had 

to settle for the NIT. The look on hisbeen conspicuously absent for a face said it all -"Don't get your Yesterday's Resultcouple ofyears-"NC-AA, NC-AA." 

hopes up," he seemed to be think­Notre Dame 53, Dayton 41 
But while the crowd seemed Dayton (41)
ing. p
confident that last night's win M FG-A FT-A R F 
But, for now, the Irish are optimis­

Chapman 40 7-7 5-5 5 2 19
clinched an NCAA Tournament for 
tic. Young 39 2-5 2-2 5 4 6
the Irish, others -namely the 
Re1chert 33 0-4 0-0 1 5 0 media -were skeptical. What "It was a very special win for me," Conrad 40 5-9 0-0 2 4 10 
ensued afterwards was The Great said Paxson, "especially after our Hawk1ns 21 2-6 0-0 2 3 4 Schellenberg 19 0-0 0-0 0 1 0
Debate between Phelps and two poorshowing last year back home (a 
Zern 5 0-0 0-0 0 0 0
Chicago writers-Mike Kiley ofthe 79-72 loss at UD Arena). All week, I 2-2 0 4 2
Goodw1n 3 0-2 Chicago Tribune and Phil Hersh of wasn't letting the guys forget about 200 16-33 9-9 15 23 41 
the Chicago Sun-Times-centering last year and about how important FG Pet .485. FT Pet. -1.000 Team rebounds -4. Turnovers -17. Ass1sts -5
on independents' chances for NCAA this was for me." 
(Conrad 2). Techmcals-None 
bids. "We had the crowd going for us, 
Notre Dame (53) Phelps, who has been pushing his we had Father Hesburgh on the M FG-A FT·A R F p 
team strongly since the North bench," said Phelps. "We pulled out Dolan 37 1-4 9-11 5 1 11 ... Sluby 23 1-4 0-0 3 4 2
Carolina State upset last month, was all the stops tonight. We needed this 
Kempton 37 2-7 5-8 8 4 9 
as vehement as ever in making his one badly, and we got it." 
Paxson 39 10-19 0-0 1 2 20 claims. Those intangibles, however, Duff 28 0-1 4-4 0 1 4 "You look at the independents as a won't mean anything this weekend Barlow 22 2-4 3-4 6 2 7 Pnce 11 0-1 0-2 1 1 0
group, we're all playing each other," when the Irish face their greatest 
Andree 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0
said Phelps. "We have a lot of challenge -convincing the NCAA 
Rucker 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 balance too. People don't give in­Tournament committee that they Love 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 

dependents enough credit. Are we being forced to join a conference? 
"If two or three independents go (to the tournament), who do you take? If you look at the records, we're in. We've prove·n ourselves this year, and we're in as good a groove as anybody in the country. And nobody's blown us out either." 
Barring the impossible (i.e., a loss 
deserve an invitation. What they will need is some plain old-fashioned luck. 
IRISH ITEMS -Guard Dan Duff, who was inserted into the starting lineup in place of the injured Bill Varner (in street clothes with an ankle injury), responded with five assists in 28 minutes while engineer­ing the stall to perfection ... Fresh­

1983 SeniorFormal BidSales March 7 -9 and March 21 
-Lemans Lobby -,3 ~30 -5:-30 LaFortune Lobby -,3 ~30 -5~30 Don'tmiss ''THE MAIN EVENT'' of 1983 
The Observer 
The Observer is now accepting applications for the following positions: 

Applications must be in by Wednesday, S pm call Mike at 239-5323 for more information. 

College of Science presents••• 
TAKE A PROF. TO LUNCH. 
MARCH 7-11 
Students, this is your chance to invite your favorite professor or TA 


200 16-40 21-29 24 15 53 

Gui/lenno Vilas, Argentina's star tennis player, showed the 
FG Pet .400. FT Pet -.724. Team 
United States an early exit in this year's Davis Cup play. Vilas
rebounds-3. Turnovers-9. Assists-10 (Duff 5, Dolan 4). Tech meals-None. defeated john McEnroe to give Argentina a 3-2 victory over the Halftime-Dayton 27, Notre Dame 25. Offi-defending champions. In fact, the usually unbeatable McEnroe cials -Mike Stockner (B1g Ten) and Veri Sell 
lost both of his matches (the other was to jose Luis-Clerc). (AP 
(MAC) A-11,345 (c). 
Photo) 


1 
, l 
_j 
• • . Schueth 
I 
• 
continuedfrom page 12 "Mary Beth isn't stronger  than  Mary D. plans to keep Schueth as the center ofattention, if not the center  
most ofher matchups," says Mary D.  on the floor.  
ofthe 142-pounder, who, at this late  "Even with a center in the lineup,  
stage ofthe season resembles a reed,  Schoothie should play a similar role  
"but she's quicker and smarter than  next  year,"  says  Mary  D. "She's  
most  of  them.  She  plays  smart  added a lot to her offensive reper­ 
defensive-position  basketball,  and  toire. She can drive as well as take  
she's become very versatile on of­fense. She's developed a lot of­fensively, as well. She uses her  the short range jumpers, not to men­tion her ability to take charge under­neath the boards."  
intellect to work to her advantage when she's physically over­matched." Mary Beth Schueth is a major reason for the Irish women's team's improvement this season. Her work  "While they introduce me as the center, in practice I'm more of a power forward," says Schoothie. "Nobody is a true center; we exploit the opportunities we can get, be­cause we don't limit ourselves to our  
on the boards and inside play have given the Irish capability to go up with clubs that have featured bigger and stronger ballplayers. But while the lanky Schueth is listed as a cen­ter, she is naturally a power forward, and generally, she is counted on to  positions. "I'm a better all-around player than I was in November. I've developed a lot of new wrinkles in my individual attack, and that makes me a much better team player."  
fill that role in what essentially is a  Notre Dame is on the verge of its  
Sophomore centerMary Beth Scbuetb (20), shown hereguarding Louisiana Tech's outstanding centerjanice Lawrence, has been the key to the women's basketball team's success this year. The team's leadiing scorer and rebounder, she bas bad to go up against some ofthe best centers in the country. Now she bas been named to the AcademicAll-America squad. Mike RiccardiprofilesScbuetb start­ing on the back page. (Photo by Scott Bower)  three-forward offense. DiStanislao has said all season that what she needs is a center to put Notre Dame closer to the women's basketball elite. When she gets that center, Mary Beth Schueth's role shouldn't change all that much.  team goal for the season. However, the biggest obstacle to the Tourna­ment may be the fact that the Irish women have failed to defeat a Top 20 foe. Their losses have driven home the message that ND is still a bit shy of joining the list of the na- 



Challenging opportunities are offered in the following areas of business management: 
• 
Finance 


• 
Contract Administration 

• 
Retail Merchandising 

• 
Food Service 


• 
Inventory Analysis and Purchasing 

• 
Transportation and Distribution 

• 
Fuel Planning and Analysis 

• 
Computer Systems 

• 
Operations Analysis 




Visit with representatives of the U.S. Navy Supply Corps to learn how your degree in accounting, economics, business administra­t1on, computer science, or engineering can prepare you for an exciting business career. 
Presentation: March 8 The Morris Inn Alumni Room 7:00 p.m. 
Interviews: March 9 
Administration Building 
Room 213 
_
.. 
tion's first-rate clubs. 
"Depending on the recruits we get, we could be right around the corner," assesses Mary Beth. "We know what makes . the best the best. I think we could be a Final Four team before I graduate." 
"The way she's progressing," says Mary D. "We're not going anywhere without her." 
• • . Swim 
continuedfrom page 12 
place in the 50-yard free. Notre Dame also had three ofthe top eight finishers in the I00-yard backstroke as Tim Bohdan finished in founh place, followed by Benz in sixth and Battle in eighth place. 
The Irish had rwo additional relay teams finish in the top eight spots. Battle, Bill Green, Dan Carey, and AI Harding teamed up for seventh place in the 400-yard free relay, while the 800-yard free relay team of Tim Bohdan, Tim Jacob, Blaise Har­ding, and AI Harding also finished in the top eight spots. 
Other swimmers placing within the top I2 finishers were: AI Harding (9th in the 200-and I Oth in the I 00­yard free). Flynn (9th in the I00­yard fly), and John Coffey ( I I th in the 200-yard backstroke). 
"We knew we would have to do well individually to finish hi t gh as a team," said Lou Bowersox, "The two new teams hurt us especially be­cause they had strengths in common with us, and placed where we would have." 
The seventh-place finish is a tough way to finish this season. Now all that is left are the recollections of the four-meet winning streak and the the close losses at Bradley and Ferris State. 


STUDENT DISCOUNT 
of~ b~~p
s v..s ~ 'T 
0~\~ ~1\t~ 
20°/o OFF 
Good Mon -Thurs onlv 
STUDENT DISCOUNT w/Student I.D. Offer not valid with any 
other Aurelio's special . discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S.BEND AVEJ23 at edison 
Hllltl't \ • 
''"""' 277 4950 . 
., 

lhe~Der========================================= 


~~4(Jl~~============================T=ue=s=d=ay='=M=a=rc=h=8=,=1=9=8=3==p=a=g=e=l=l
Bloom County 


Simon 
l'Vt BEEN GOING 
NINE.'... L EVEN

TtllfOU6/{ THE N[W 
fOuND TWO

T£jTf1t1£NT, JO/fN. 
5/nON:S UNOER 

fiN!) GtJ£5:; !{OW' c~ 
ONE f?(J)F IN

n/fNY .5/fflN~ £ 
/ICTS 10...

fOUND. 
I [C!VE ~~ 
I
UP '---~ 


Fate 

lOOK,THt OIIILY TH\N6 
I HAT 1([ALL't 11ATTfRS IS THAT THfY HAVt A POOR. 



The Daily Crossword 
3/8/83 


G()[) f5/IID TO CORN£lfll5; "5£NO ~£ M£N TD .xH!I fiND ~1111011
fi CERT/t!N :5/MON. KNOWN liS fEii).f/£ l'iJ fl G(fE()TOF b/1'10/'1 Tfl£ T/lft'#~.... . 
WHO~ HOI15E "'-... oTHN05 BY Tl{£ SE/1 ... " 
) 

WE'LL, I~ If W(~tNT FOR DOO\(S ... 
\ 

ACROSS 27 Offered 1 By any 31 "-of chance robins" 5 Magnani 32 Site of 
et al. Tuileries 10 Vend Gardens 14 Station: Fr. 33 Actor 15 Support Wallach 
for birds 34 Exclude 16 Musical 35 Dress or 
group polo 17 Descended 36 Dapper­18 Misleading 37 Season 
clue in Dijon 20 Sound wave 38 Strand unit 39 Predispo­22 Ballet sition 
position 41 Densely 23 Bind populated 24 Mature land 
tadpole 43 Put on a 25 Directive tan

Monday's Solution 

3/8/83 


Berke Breathed 

Jeb Cashin 
... f1Y GU£S5 15 1./IU[)t.RPIU£01?. Df!YTO/Jfl. 
Photius 
WHfRf tLSf COlALD WE 
HANG NOTES TELUN4 STU.OENB WE WON'T BE KEEPIN(f OUR 
OFFIC£ HOu.RS? 
I 


44 Auspicious 13 Theater 45 Bulgarian seating city 19 Gang and 46 Welts on show the skin 21 Fold up 49 Securely 24 -Haute 
fastened 25 Founder 52 Virile of Mogul 55 Guam harbor Empire 56 Speedy 26 Related on 
horse mother's 57 Italian side city 27 Famous 58 Greenish-Japanese blue family 59 Fleshy 28 Fish fruit 29 Make happy 60 Reduce 30 Ate gradually 32 Call 61 Gaelic 35 Leaves the country DOWN 38 Gambler's 1 Mild decoy 
expletive 39 Porous rock 2 Low land 40 Quicken 3 Greenland 42 Portrayer 
explorer of Tarzan 4 Withdraws 43 Unite 5 Catch and 45 Focus 
hold 46 Preparea 6 Christmas package songs 47 Manon a 7 Inclination pedestal 
of the head 48 Dutch 8 Tree cheese 9 Hurry up 50 Periods 
10 Walk with of time 
purpos~ 51 Valley 11 -go bragh 53 Harem room 12 Ravelings 54 Party fare 


Campus 
•12: 
I 0 p.m. -Art Noontalk, "Public Sculpture, Community, and Mark di Suvero," Prof. Tom Fern, Annenberg Auditorium 

•12: 
15 p.m. -Workshop, "Projecting Energy Related Employment," Joe Baker, 343 NSH 

•2-6:30p.m. 
-Immunization, for Faculty and students, Student Health Center, No charge 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Origins of a Fragile Democracy: Prosperity, Politics, and Petroleum in Modern Venezuela," Dean John V. Lombardi, Library Lounge 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Model Reaction Path­ways in Coal Conversions," Prof. Michael T. Klein, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Filmore," Chautauqua, LaFortune Student Center, Sponsored by NDSt:, S1 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m.-Film, "Superman II," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by B.A.LS.A., 


S1 
•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Tradition and Fre¢dom in Theology," Prof. John Meyendorff, Library Auditorium 

•Midnite 
-All Comedy Show, Nocturne Night Flight, David Magana, and Robin Brown, WSND-FM 88.9 



T.V. Tonight ­
7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
llp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
11:30p.m. 16 To"night Show 22 Quincy & McMillan & Wife 28 ABC News Nightline 
The Far Side 
.. 

16 All In The Family 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
16 TheA Team 
22 Billy Graham Campaign 
28 Happy Days 
34 Nova 
28 Laverne and Shirley 
16  Bare Essence  
22  CBS  Tuesday  Night  Movie:  "High  
Anxiety,"  

28 Three's Company 34 American Playhouse 28 9to5 

r~;c;;;t;t~'0;;_~_8;"S;;;;_~_"T~"J;;t;;,~;7r;;,;• 
Santana ... Hot Tuna ... Quicksilver ... Messenger Service ........... The New Riders of the Purple Sage .......... . 
IN 


in the Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom Tuesday, March 8th at 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 
"lhe """" filt:~ ·~ 
t~/lhe ( emur.r = It-=--==­-n:.H· u.
------------------...... --~--------·' I 
r· 
-------~---~­
~ 

Tuesday, March 8, 1983-page 12 

"Tournament hopes still alive 


Paxson, defense key Dayton win 
By CHRIS NEEDLES "We felt all along that ifwe got the from the field or the foul line -all SportsEditor lead, we could go to the delay and night. But he was limited to only two make it work," said Irish coach shots -four points -after halftime 
... 
You sort of got the feeling quite Digger Phelps. "We felt Dayton had a by a "wagon train" Irish defense that early that last night's Notre Dame­slow front line and we could exploit circled Chapman every time he Dayton matchup was important. that weakness once we got ahead. 1 touched the ball. 
The crowd, noticeably lethargic thought we did an excellent job run­With its star player virtually shut throughout the year, was suddenly ning our delay game." down, Dayton had to rely on its frenzied. Rev. Theodore M. Hes­"I think we ran the delay better suspect outside ~hooting. Except for burgh, C.S.C., in town for the week, than we have all season," added Pax­guard Kevin Conrad's ';-oe-'9 shoot­was on the Irish bench playing son, whose parents and little sister ing, the rest of the Fivers combined chaplain. were in attendance. "We shot poorly to hit just '-i-of-1 -,_ . 
And John Paxson. who has in the first half ( 36 percent) but we "Chapman 1s more of an inside sacrificed his scoring average on be­knew we'd eventually catch them. shooter than an outside player," said half of the team this season, was When we needed the hig basket, we Phelps. "Once we got the lead, we once again the focal point of Notre got i!." showed match-up 7.0ne but went to Dame's offense. And when they needed the hig a straight zone. I think we confused That combination, in addition to a defensive play. the Irish got that, too. Dayton a lirtle. Their out~ide shoor­swarming defense and an effective After watching Dayton shoot 69 per­ing is suspect and once they started delay game, lifted the Irish to a cru­cent and jump to a 27-25 halftime missing we really did an excellent cial 53-41 victory over the Flyers advantage, Notre Dame's defense job controlling the defensive hoards 
last night before a sellout 11,345 at stffened, holding the Flyers to just (27-19 for the game)." the ACC. 14 points and 29 percent shooting in "When Notre Dame went to a 
Paxson, who hails from Kettering, the final 20 minutes. zone after they got the lead, we Ohio, a suburb of Dayton, scored 20 The primary target of the attack wanted to go to a motion offense," points against his hometown toes on was Flyer star forward Roosevelt added Dayton coach Don "Mickey" 1 0-of-19 shooting. Included in those Chapman. The 6-4 junior, among the Donoher. "But that wasn't well­20 were Notre Dame's last three leading scorers in the country at 23 suited for Chapman to get the ball field goals, each layups and each points a game, had 15 points by in­
see DEFENSE, page 9

scored off a marvelously executed termission and did not miss a shot ­stall that helped the Irish build a slim three-point lead to a more­
john Paxson got his revenge on Dayton last night by scoring a 12 the ten
comfortable in last 
game-high 20 points. Last year, the Flyers bad embarrassed the 

Swimmeis-set marks, 
minutes. 
Irish in front ofPaxson's hometown fans. Now, after Thursday's 
The delay game, which featured 
game against Northern Iowa, all the team can do is hope that the 
remarkable patience on NO's part,
NCAA Tournament selection committee decides to give ita bid. The 
uso resulted in equally impressive 

close out good season
Dayton win definitely helps the chances. Chris Needles reports on 
foul shooting -13-of-1 5 down the 
the game in his story to the right. (Photo by.Paul Cifarelli) 

stretch. By THERON ROBERTS a number of Notre Dame varsity Sports Writer records fell over the weekend someAcademic All-American ofthese record-breaking time~ were ... At the Midwest Independent not good enough for finishing posi­Men's Collegiate Swimming and tions in the top five. Obviously,

Schueth: The key to success 
Diving Championships which con-there was some stiffcompetition. eluded last Saturday, the Notre The Notre Dame problems were Dame men's swimming team, complicated by the addition of twoBy MIKE RICCARDI from IV coach Maryalycejeremiah. second squad. The 6-0 sophomore 
Tomorrow, Schueth will a was selected after earning a 3.68 despite sterling individual perfor-powerful teams, Southwestern Mis­
Sports Writer get 
while leading Irish mances, finished lower than ex-souri and the University of Missourichance to show Jeremiah that they GPA the in pected, amassing 294 total pointsfor at Rolle, which were making theirIndiana and basketball. They go made a mistake. But that's not Mary scoring and rebounding. 
seventh place. first appearances in the Midwest In­together like, well, Lasso herbicide Beth's primary motivation in tomor­"We're obviously proud of Mary Western Kentucky, totalling 498 vitational. Both finished ahead oftheand a farmer's corn yield. This row's first Irish-Hoosier women's Beth," says DiStanislao. "It's quite an points, was the team champion at Irish in the team standings.
month, this state will come to a vir­battle. honor for a university to have an the three-day event which was held Blaise Harding and Tim Bohdantual stop to watch "Hoosier Hys­"IV is just a great challenge," says Academic All-American. And she's at the University ofIllinois-Chicago. led the way in the record-settingteria," not to mention Bobby Schueth. "It's not really that I earned it, on and offthe court." 
It was a disappointing way to end department, establishing three andKnight's Hoosiers' run at the Final wanted to go there so much that I "I guess we put in about 25 hours an otherwise exciting and mostly two marks, respectively. 
Four. resented the fact that they didn't a week at practice," says Schueth, a successful season. Harding shattered the record inIn March, a kid growing up in In­recruit me. Against IV, we're playing pre-med in the College of Science. 
a very fast group of the individual
diana grows up dreaming of the day for it all. Ifwe win, we have a shot at "That leaves me about three or four "This was 200-yard medley, 
we teams that we competed against," placing fifth with a time of 1:58.02,
he can lead his local high school to the (NCAA) Tournament. If hours a night for books. It isn't easy, I said Irish coach Dennis Stark. "Still, while his record 4:13.9 2 in the 400­the state fmals in Indianapolis, or don't, we've lost it." guess. But I think I've improved in we had some good individual yard l.M. was only good enough for
.. 
better yet, of the day he can play for "It'll be important for Mary Beth both aspects this year." 
times." sixth place. His time of 2:13.68 inKnight at Assembly Hall. to take it to (IV frontliners Rachelle) see SCHUETH, page 10 The presence of fast times was the 200-yard breaststroke was also a Mary Beth Schueth grew up in In­Bostic and (Denise)Jackson. She' t II best shown in the fact that, although record, but only merited Harding
dianapolis, 45 minutes away from have to be an enforcer on the boards Knight's basketball production line and it would help to get their big =============================:;;: eleventh place. Similarly, Bohdan substantially
in Bloomington, and, while women people in foul trouble. They can't 
undercut previous varsity records,
don't yet share fully in the dream of score from the bench." 
but did no better than fifth place. His 


SMC swimmers do 
winning a state title in front of If Notre Dame wins tomorrow 
fifth-place performance in the 200­17,000-plus at Market Square Arena, night, Schueth and the Irish women backstroke at 

or rolling with the Big Red to the Big will almost certainly advance to a yard was clocked 
1:58.08, for his first record of the


well in Nationals
Ten title, none of the tradition and post-season tournament berth -if meet. He then shattered the recordexcellence ofIndiana basketball was not the NCAA, then the Women's in the 500-yard freestyle, a mark helost on Schueth. NIT in Texas. 
ByJUDY McNAMARA and its swim teams ofthe future." previously owned. His time ofPost-season will be a brand new"Indiana has such a rich basketball Sports Writer Freshmen diver Colleen Ambrose 4:41.83 set a new varsity record intradition," explains Schueth. challenge, but then again, new chal­sprang to the top spot for the squad the preliminaries, and went on toEverybody looks forward to the high lenges are nothing new to Schueth. 
For the first time in history, the by earning 351.55 points and third place seventh in the finals.
school tournament, and follows IU. Her second game i a Notre Dame Saint Mary's swim team competed in place in the one-meter diving com­Dan Flynn had the only victory inIt's just the place to be a basketbllll uniform was against an eighth­the National Association ofIntercol­petition. the meet for the Irish. He took theplayer." ranked UCLA team, led by all­legiate Athletics (NAIA) National "I was so happy and surprised to honors in the 200-yard butterfly"It's a compliment to say that America center Necie Thompson. 
Swimming and Diving Champion­place third," commented Ambrose. with a varsity record-breaking time• Scoothie's an Indiana-type bal­And just last month, she went up ships held this weekend in Arkadel­"The other girls had some better of 1:53.79. Brian Casey finishedlplayer," says coach Mary DiStanis­against one of the nation's best cen­phia, Ark. dives but I stayed pretty consistent third in the race with a time oflao. "She understands small facets of ters in Janice Lawrence of No. 1 The Belles finished 12th out ofthe all day long. Saint Mary's really going 1:55.68, which was also faster thanthe game and she's open to instruc­Louisiana Tech. 
43 teams who competed in the all out for the meet made it fun too." the previous Irish record.
tion -and smart enough to under­"Before the game, you can can get tournament with a total team score The only other individual to place The remammg Notre Damestand it and execute it. wrapped up in the fact that you're of39.5 points. for the Belles was freshman Amy record that fell was through the"She's a good player in the IV playing a Lawrence or a Thompson," Senior Gail Casey led the Belles Studer who stroked her way to 12th combined efforts of Paul Benz,mold. Mary Beth, like me, loves to says Schueth. "But you can't be with her seventh-and ninth-place place in the 100-meter backstroke. Blaise Harding, Flynn, and AI Har­watch IU hoops. And I think she awestruck. You've gotta take it at finishes in the I00-meter individual Three relay squads placed in the ding in the 400-yard medley relay.
learns a lot from it." 'em-and ifyou don't beat 'em, you medley and the 100-meter butterfly, finals oftheir events for Saint Mary's. The quartet finished fifth with a timeBut, despite leading an awesome learn from them. Tech is the respectively. Casey was awarded The 200-met t er medley team of of3:32.9.
Perry Meridian High School team to epitome ofcollege basketball. It can Academic All· America honors for Rosey Whalen, Gail Casey, Amy There were some other im­a record which included just three be frustrating to play them, but her efforts this season. Studer and Nancy Lorinzini faught pressive performances that were notlosses in her final two years, which we're learning to go up against "I was very excited about finish­their way to a ninth-place finish. team records as Paul McGowan won her recognition as an all-stater them." 
ing seventh in the 100 IM and am While the 800-meter freestyle relay placed fourth in the three-meterand Marion County's Female Athlete Yesterday, Schueth's intelligence really happy about being named All­team of Rosey Whalen, Ellen Byrne, diving and AI Harding took seventhof the Year, she wasn't recruited by earned her recognition as a second­
American," said Casey. "The trip has 
see SMC, page 8
Indiana University. In fact, she didn't team Academic All-American. She see SWIM, page 10 
done good things tor Saint Mary's
even receive so much as a letter joined Tech's jennifer White on the 



