
• • • Unity -page 4 

VOL. XVII, NO. 88 the independent ~tudcnt ncw~papcr ~lT\ ing rwtrc dame and ~aint man·~ WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1983 
Truck driver killed as strike continues 
( AP) -Sniper~ ambushed dozens President Roy Lee Williams. who of trucks with guntlre and rocks yes· was recently convicted of bribery­terday as violence spread in a conspiracy charges, called on nationwide strike by independent federal and state governments to truckers that has left one driver dead "provide protection for drivers and and I I people injured, rwo serious­the motoring public." ly. George Franklin Capps, :\3, of 
Police were investigating reports Clayton, N.C., was killed by a sniper of attacks on at least SO rigs in 22 about II :30 p.m. Monday on LI.S. states, including the slaying Monday 701 just outside Newton Grove, night of a trucker who was shot in N.C. Six other trucks were hit by the nee k while driving through guntlre in the state yesterday morn­North Carolina and the serious ing, and two truckers were injured. wounding ofanother trucker in Utah five were hurt when bullets or earlier in the day. A teenager in rocks hit their trucks in unrelated Pennsylvania suffered a fractured incidents in Alabama, Maryland. skull when a brick bounced off a Florida, Connecticut and Oregon. 
Independent Truckers Association members, dependent truckers started a job action today in
truck into the family car. Two drivers were injured Monday in 
from left, Charles Brown, Ralph Raymond, Ed­an attempt to change Congress' mind on the in­
The dead driver was a member of Pennsylvania and Michigan. 
ward Stoney, and Samuel Forbes show their crease. The strikes turned violent yesterday when
the Teamster l'nion, which opposes Yesterday, nails scattered on In­
feelings about the 5cent increase in thefuel tax at a trucker was shot and killed in North Carolina.
the strike. terstate 65 near Lebanon, Ky.. 
a truck stop in South Kearny, Nj. on Monday. In-See story at left. ( AP Photo)
In the second day of the strike 
see DRIVER, page 3 called at 12:0 I a.m. Monday by the Independent Truckers Association. some more local truckers orgaqiza­tions joined the ~hutdown, notably 
District 3 race centers on D-6, cooperation 
in Ohio and Massachusetts, to protest scheduled increases in the gasoline tax and highway use fees. Editor's Note: The following is the ByTOMMOWLE ROTC building should be improved dent center, improving Lafortune, 
No shortages of goods were third ofa five-part series describing Campus Campaign Reporter 
to serve South Quad residents bet­reforming the book exchange, ad­
reported in the nation's markets. In the candidates in each of the Jive 
ter. Each candidate believes that the ding a bakery below LaFortune, w·ashington, Department of Student Senate districts. Today's Improving the D-6 parking lot and sponsoring a reduced meal plan, and Transportation officials said that segment profiles candidates from communications between the 
moving the Placement Bureau from while fewer truckers appeared to be District 3 which consists ofBadin, Senate and hall governments are im­Campus , 
Chautauqua. The following is a running at night, there did not ap­Dillon, Fisher, Howard, Lyons, Mor­portant issues in the District ~ 
* Campaign 83 protile ofeach candidate's position: 
pear to be a "serious disruption" of rissey, and Pangborn Halls. The Senate campaign. interstate commerce. series will continue tomorrow with Two of the three candidates 
Susan Hoelscher wants her dis­In Chicago, Teamsters Union District4. believe the parking lot behind the 
cooperation of the Senate and halls trict "to become aware that there is is necessary for the success ofeither a person they can turn ro" with organization's projects and would campus problems. If elected, the
Campbelrs reps unsuccessful 
work to improve relations between Lyons sophomore would go to each the two. hall's council meetings "at least Other issues raised by the can­
see DISTRICT, page 3
didates include building a nev.· stu-

HPC votes to endorse FLOC 


By DAVID F. TRACY Campbell's, they work for events were a night at the Nazz. a News Staff Campbell's suppliers, tt:e tomato far­weekend retreat. and a a formal at a mers. He also questioned why FLOC local country club. Tom Merriman and Ceci Schickel, chose to boycott Campbell's when HPC President Mike \tcAuliffe 

ND/SMC exchange
representatives of the Farm Labor both Heinz and Hunt's comprise a asked the presidenb to continue Organizing Committee (FLOC), dis­much larger portion of the market. promoting attendence at the cussed their proposed boycott of Merriman responded that be­remaining home hockey games. 

grows in popularity
Campbell's products with three cause of Campbell's well-known McAuliffe said he hopes to "see the representatives of Campbell name, FLOC considers them the team go out with some class." 
By SONYA STINSON 
Senior Staff Reporter 
management at last night's HPC most int1uential employer oftomato 
meeting. farmers. He also stated that though Howard Hall President Tim Con­After the meeting, the presidents the migrant farm workers do not nolly announced that Chautauqua 
Notre Dame and Saint \tary's students are taking advantage of the voted 1 5--l in favor of endorsing work directly for Campbell's, the dances are going well. More than 
opportunities for interaction with one another both academically FLOC. company still has a responsibility to --100 people attended last Fr:day's 
and socially. Students are allowed to enroll in courses at either Scott Romback. speaker for see that the migrant farmers are paid "Chance co Dance" even though it 
school, and both campuses operate a meal ticket exchange. The Campbell's, and :vterriman a decent wage. was competing with the Keenan 
strength of student participation in the co-exchange program indi­presented their opposing positions In other business. the presidents Revue. Connolly hopes to decorate 
cates that the idea is a popular one. and tlelded questions from the presi­presented Lyons Hall with the Sow­LaFortune Ballroom for Valentine's 
At Saint Mary's, there are 330 students out ofabout 1700 who are dents. der award for hall spirit displayed in Day. have free refreshments served 
currently enrolled in Notre Dame courses, according to Sr. M. Fran­Romback pointed out that the months of November and at the dance and possibly award 
cesca Kennedy, registrar at Saint Mary's. The tlgure does not include migrant farmers do not work for December. Lyon's winning hall door prizes. 
courses within the Communications and Theater major or the departments of religion and theology, which are cross listed at both schools, Kennedy said. 
The earliest record of Saint Mary's students taking WEDNESDAYIIII courses is for the spring semester of 1965. Originally, a Saint Mary's student could 




ocus 
only enroll in a Notre Dame course which was not offered at her own school. Now, however. students can choose from a variety ofcourses in many disciplines. 
Some of the more popular Notre Dame courses among Saint Mary's students include those in the departments of American Studies, History, Sociology, and Art, and in the College of Business Administration. according to Kennedy. 
Saint Mary's junior Bridget Baker is a Communications and Theater major whose classes and theater work require her to spend a great deal of time at Notre Dame. 
"I work on plays a lot, so I'm over at Notre Dame almost every 
night for rehearsals," Baker said. "But it's more convenient to be at Pangborn President jot,n Callagher listen on. Saint Mary's because if I'm working at a rehearsal and we don't get FLOC representatives were on band also and saw out until late, I would rather be close to my dorm." the HPC ·vote to recommend a boycott of 
see EXCHANGE, page 4
Campbell's. See above story. (Photo by Ed Car· 
rom ­
-~ ~ 


An annual competition for essays dealing with the history of Notre Dame or Saint !\1ary's College is now open. All undergraduate or graduate students at the two schools are eligible to compete tor the prize of SSO. Entries must be receivnl by Philip Gleason. chairman of the Committee on the History of the l iniver· sity, by Apr. 18. There is no limit on the length of the essay. -The Ohserc•er 
Former defense leaders of the United States, 
Great Britain and West Germany called vesterday f(Jr the Western 
Alliance to build up conventional forces and then renounce the first 
use of nuclear weapons. They argued that a S I 00 billion strengthen­
ing of non-nuclear power in Europe over six years would keep the 
Soviets from launching an attack. and thus allow a li.S. president to 
make the no-first-use pledge. The idea, endorsed by 41 American 
winners of the Nobel Prize, was rejected immediately by the Reagan 
administration. Alan Romberg, spokesman at the State Department, 
said the administration doubts that a simple pledge would restrain 
the Soviet bloc during times of crisis. "Indeed, we believe that a 
nuclear no-first-strike pledge would undermine deterrence and in· 
crease the risk of Soviet conventional aggression against our 
European allies," Romberg said. The Soviets have made such pledges 
for 25 years, but the United States has refused, contending that the 
threat of nuclear retaliation is necessary to stave off a Soviet thrust 
across Europe too powerful for convenional forces. -AP 
The Reagan administration has settled on a s percent surcharge on personal and corporate income taxes as part of a standby tax package proposed in the president's new budget, Treasury officials said yesterday. The officials, who spoke only on condition that their names not be used, said the administration has rejected an alternative plan for a I percent surcharge on taxable income because it would impose an unfair burden on lower-income taxpayers. The S percent surcharge, together with an oil excise tax equal to SS per barrel of domestic and imported crude, would take effect from fiscal 1986 through fiscal 1988 only if needed to keep future deficits from exceeding S 1 SO billion a year. President Reagan has said he personally does not think the taxes will be needed, but is supporting them as an insurance policy against high deficits that could block a healthy economic recovery. -AP 
A bipartis:.tn commission's s168 billion rescue plan should keep Social Security safe through the 1980s provided Congress realizes it isn't "a loose agreement tht can be renegotiated," the panel's chairman testified yesterday. Economist Alan Greenspan declared also that ifCongress fails to wipe out all of Social Security's deficit, it would send "a terribly negative signal" to financial markets that U.S. budget deficits are out of control. Greenspan told the House Ways and !\1eans Committee that there is no room to alter "anything substantive, anything which resembles a key element in this negotiation." "It would create a resumption of inflationary force~ ...push long-term interest rates up from where they are, abort a recovery and I think create problems for this nation which I have very great difficulty even contemplating," he said. Ways and !\1eans Chairman Dan Rostenkowski, who has vowed to try to speed a rescue bill through Congress in two months, praised the commis1oion for defusing "a number of alternatives long considered 
too explosive to handle." -AP 
Touring a Chrysler plant that plans to rehire half 
of the ~.ooo workers it laid off, President Reagan declared yesterday 
the seeds of recovery are "sprouting all over the place" and chal­
lenged his critics to enact a program that will flower more. Stealing a 
promotional line from his host. Chrysler Chairman Lee lacocca, 
Reagan described his budget plan to hundreds ofworkers and added:· 
"If you can t1nd a better program than that, buy it." "I know that 
Chrysler employees here in Fenton have had a rough time the last 
few years." Reagan told auto workers in the refurbished tactory 
outside St. Louis. "But l want you to know -and I really mean it ­
America is on the mend and both the economy and Chrysler are on 
the comeback trail." Reagan's chief of staff, James A. Baker Ill, said 
<he visit to St. Louis was part of a planned series of one-day trips 
outside of Washington to combat "the idea that this president 
doesn't know what it is like to be unemployed and so forth." But like 
his trip to Boston last week, in which Reagan visited a high­
technology job training site and computer assembly plant, Reagan 
stressed, as well, his claim that the economy is responding. -AP 
A tank of nitric acid that ruptured yesterday at the Alcoa plant in Lafayette, Ind. created a cloud of fumes visible for at least a mile, but only one minor injury was reported. Alcoa spokes­man Dan Gaudiano said the 11:45 a.m. leak was caused when workers moving aluminum ingots tipped one, rupturing either a tank or a line feeding into it. Before workers could neutralize the fumes, the acid escaped to the outside and created the yellowish cloud, Gaudiano said. Civil Defense volunteer Robert Cheeseman of Lafayette suffered a minor burn to his eye, but he was treated and released from a local hospital. Police said they had considered evacuating nearby schools, but wind dissipated the cloud within a halfhour, making that action unnecessary. Gaudiano said about 200 gallons of 40 percent nitric acid solution was in the tank at the time of the accident. The nitric acid is used to clean aluminum ingots, which Alcoa uses. -AP 
An 80 percent ChanCe ofrain today and mild. Highs around 40. A 70 percent chance of rain changing to snow tonight. Lows in the mid to upper 20s. Cloudy and cold tomorrow with a chance oflight snow. Highs in the low 30s. -AP 

Wednesday, February 2, 1983-page 2 
Don't save the Fie1ldhouse 
.. .Shall we go wbile u•e haue tune~ For, ifnot we depart. tbeu it. into tbe dust.from u•hence we came . .. 
Above is an exerpt from a poem I found posted in the 
entrance of the Old Fieldhoust• yesterday. It was ded­
icated to "the old Fieldhouse and the princely ghost 
that lives within." 
The Fieldhouse is slated to come down soon. Already 
most of the art department, housed in the Fieldhouse 
for more than ten years, has been relocated to the old 
Chemistry building. 
Wht:n the Fieldhouse was built in 1898, for S-!0,000, 
it was one of the largest college gymnasiums in the 
country. ("Second to none in the West," according to a 
1899 issue ofScholaslic.) The column-free interior was 
the glory of Notre Dame. Two years later, it promptly 
burned to the ground. 
The building was reconstructed, this time of t1reproof brick and iron, with trusses and skylights. The original 1898 cor­

SOIYqotJ'*59
nerstone was retained and 

can be seen still at the south· "WAAl To 00 Wl1tf THE ping on the trendy campus west corner. OLD FIEU>HOUSE"?" cause bandwagon. A large The Fieldhouse was the number of students who mecca of Notre Dame ath-signed the "Save Hockey" letes. In 1925, the eastern ~ petition have never been to addition was made. The 
a Notre Dame hockey game. newer yellow bricks are evi­Similarly, many who dent today. The building in­bemoan the loss of the cluded an enlarged track, a Fieldhouse ha,·e ne ver ex­
moveable hardwood basket­plored its interior. ball court, handball alleys, The Fieldhouse is a fencing and boxing rooms, fascinating structure with a and galleries. great deal ofhistorical value. 
The life of the Fieldhouse (Ifnothing else, it is reminis­wasn't limited to athletics. cent of the days before they 
Registration, Mardi Gras, 
military ceremonies, Com· 
mencement and pep rallys took place there. The 
Fieldhouse was honored with the presence of such 
speakers as Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lowell Thomas. 
With the 1960s came the building of Stepan Center and the ACC. The Fieldhouse was rendered irreparable in 1969 and was scheduled to be torn down. 
The campus came alive with protest. "Save the . Fieldhouse" was the slogan. Petitions were circulated and banners hung. It worked: The University issued a moratorium and the Fieldhouse became the home of the art department. The building has operated on a S I 0,000 annual budget since then. 
Renovation plan were discussed. ln 1970, Ellerbe Ar­chitects concluded that renovation costs, at SI.~ mil­lion, would exceed the cost of building a new facility. Art students remained in the Fieldhouse as the structure continued to decay around them. At one poim, ta.culty members and grad students went up on 
the roof to do repairs. 
The Observer 
Designl:'dilor . ..... ........................ Troy Illig Design Assistant............. Dave Rohin~on 
Mary Heal\' Layout Staff:.. ................... Maureen l!urkc 7)'pest>lters ..... .................. Tom & Reggie Neurs f.'ditor..... ............... .\lark \'('ors<:hch 
COP!' l:'ditor.... ...................... Diane Dirke" 
Feutun•s Ltll'OUI ........... ~arah Hamilton Editoriuls Lt~J'OUI.. . ...... Tari Brown 
Sports Copv Editor. Chm "'I love Keenan II all" :'1/eedk• NIJ Dav liditor ..... . ............. Jane Panfil SMC /Jay Editor. .Tim Pelle" 1)•pist ................................................. Betsy Ad /Jesi}ill ... ....... Paul & Fran Photographer.. .......................... Ed Carroll 
Guest Appearances........... Shots, Ryan thl" 
Wreck, M•ura, Deirdre & Dra~:on, Marilvn. PAIN & AGONY (Pleasure>). Slit 
throat womhat, the Ohserz•er mooch. 
Eve's Adam, & )eb 

The Observer tUSPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fr~day and on home football Saturdays except dur~ng exam and vacat1on pem>ds The Observer IS publiShed by the sludents of Noire Dame and Samt Marys Col· lege Subscnp11ons may be purchased for $25 per year IS 15 per semester) by wr1t1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduc11on r~ghts are reserved 
Secood class poslage pa1d at Noire Dame lna1ana 46556 



Margaret Fosmoe 
Saint Mary's Exec. Editor 
Inside Wednesday 

Now that the demise of the fieldhouse is again im­
minent. we are starting to hear rumblings of a present 
day "Save the Fieldhouse" campaign. A District I stu· 
dent senate campaign is based in part on a plan to 
preserve the Fieldhouse. Apparently the candidate 
hasn't heard the structure is to be razed in March. Stu­
dent senators take office Apr. I. 
Such a campaign would be reminiscent of the recent 
"Save Hockey" movement. For all people complain 
about apathy around here, it is ironic that the things 
they get most stirred about 
are lost causes. Such 
protests are made up of the
to 

last-minute students jum­
started naming buildings af­
ter the respective contribut­ing alums.) Much ofNO history, athletic and otherwise, was made within .its walls. 
However, it is evident to anyone who has ever pu~hed aside dusty forgotten art projects to see the worn "NO" painted on the floor: the days ·of the Fieldhouse are gone. Anyone who has wandered the dark vermin-infested lower regions knows this. 
It's too late. Two years ago the dean ofthe art depart­ment said. "We're going before the roofcaves in on us." If anyone was really interested in preserving the Fieldhouse, something should have been done 1 <;years 
ago. 

It would be senseless to keep such a unusable and dangerous structure. The only means of improving it would be to tear it down and start over. The Cniversity should instead look toward its more immediate dilem­mas. such as the question of a student center. 
The Fieldhouse should come down with the dignity that its history merits. Its last days shouldn't be clouded with a silly. selt~righteous campus crusade. 
':KIKiC!.:rMomrer;-;;}!IIM:)IEK<~iW1•"(:,..-<>'M<>ai<:c>.3fK~:»>l.<'>~~ 
~s 
' 

jr The Center for Social Concerns i
...  
' .  announces an OPEN HOUSE  wII  
N DU Students, Faculty & Staff invited  I  
Thursday, February 3, 1983  ~  
3:30 ·5:30P.M.  r~  

..)1D;~~~~ii~~;~~:>--~ 

The Observer Wednesday, February 2, 1983 -page 3 

Church varies role in Latin America 
By CHUCK KRILL tlict as a means of hringing about so­\lclj{RI'j)()r/er cial justice. "It seem~ to me there's a Jeep 
The Catholic Church in Latin tension between that kind of asser­America ha~ re,pontkd to ib tion and what it implie~ for the "impube toward ~onal ju~tice" with Church·~ role on one hand. and on varying tkgree~ of contlict and the other hand the idea that till' restraint. said a ~enior tdlow of the Church should he a t(Jrce of recon­Kellogg ln~titute. ciliation." 
Akx:mdcr \X iide. a vislling as· The Church·~ experienl·e~ in the ~ociate proft:~!'>or of gon·rnment at three countrit·~ that he de~crihed '\;otre Dame. tklin:red a lecture en­suggest "a certain pes,imbm about titleu "Politics and the Progressive the possibilities of change through Church" as part of the ~aint :\tary's exi,ting institutions and. indeed. the College Ju!->tice Education Program. acceptance of the lcgitimacv of 
He cited political event~ in the violence," he said. The individuab countries of Colombia. Chile and who are working for social change in :-.licara!-,1-ua a!'> examples of the Latin America are optimistic. Church's varying acceptance ofcon­however. hecause they consider tlict as an agent ofsocial change. The themselves to be "pan of !'>Ome lar­progressive Church in Latin America ger. continuing. longer historical "rejecb much of the trauitional process." he said. doctrine of the Church that society somehow has an underlying har­Wilde taught at Haverford Col­
mony," he said. lege, the t:niversity of Wisconsin Saint Mary'sjuniors Mary• Walsh (/.)andAnne 
It has asserted its opinion that and Queens College before joining Bush share a laugh while monitoring the front "social contlict is not only an effect the Woodrow Wilson International desk at LeMans Hal/yesterday. The two look hap-of change, but it is necessarily and Center for Scholars in Washington, 
inevitably a cause of change." he D.C.. in 197R He graduated from 
3-d art form 
added. Lawrence Cniversity in 1962 and 
But considering the setbacks that studied at Keble College of Oxford Church activists have experienced, University until 196-t. In 1972 he Wilde was reluctant to conclude received a Ph.D. in comparative 


Director fascinated by holography
that the Church ~hnulc1 ::ccept con-politics from Columbia University. By ANNE MONASTYRSKI are scientists," said jackson, noting vented. Imagine what it was like in SeniorStaffReporter that no distinction divides the two 1820. Now put that in the context of professions in holography. holography." When scientists opened their Jackson expressed her own fas­Jackson warned people about
• • • District 

laboratory doors allowing holog­cination with this new art medium. being "more fascinated with it 
,•,'.l
raphy to reach the public in 1968, it "It's exciting to me to see how (holography) instead of what it is ! began the cross-fertilizaton that hologrpahy got into our everyday doing," because the field is so new. '"""! 
concinuedfrom page 1 
and then paved." brought about the art form," said lives," she said. She ~uggested holography be 
·''1
.,.,_,..
three times a semester" and "post From reading the PACE report, Rosemary Jackson, Director of the She credits Lloyd Cross with evaluated like any other art form. ·•
il;,,,.l 
minutes of the Senate meetings in Yurko says the University "seems to Museum of Holography in New York taking holography "out ofBell Labs," "Art can be judged. It has to have 
1 I 
~··:;
each dorm." recognize the importance of more City. and making it "accessible to the integrity, it has to work. And if it 
.,.• ! 
One of Hoelscher's main and better social space." The Jackson lectured last night in Saint people." Using $200,000 worth of works, it works for the same reasons ;... 
proposals would be to improve and Government major would suggest Mary's Moreau Gallery, in conjunc­lab equipment, Cross "saw the tech­any piece of art works. You can't be .... "'"'t enlarge the D-6 parking lot. which building a new student center tion with the holography exhibit on nological needs and constructed the seduced by the fact that it's holog­she says "is in bad shape," so that where the fieldhouse now is. if pos­display there now -showing many first hobby equipment that cost un­raphy,"Jackson said. 
'!"··· 
more South Quad dorms could use sible. of the pioneers in the field. "This ex­der S200," said jackson. However, holography cannot be it. The Chemical Engineering major Yurko also believes the University hibit is part of the early history of Studios now are set up all over the viewed like other art forms. Because " ,.
. 
also believes the Senate must en­should show "more flexibility in holography," Jackson said. world in artists's basements, holography creates images out of 
courage more hall-sponsored ac­allowing hall transfers," as many Holography is a three-bathrooms, and garages, and Jackson light that hang in space with volume, tivities at LaFortune. She notes that freshmen are forced into a dorm dimensional art form that uses laser labels these arti~b "the Johnny Ap­the viewer must, according to Jack­last year "nothing worked" to get a they did not choose. She also would light to record the patterns of light pleseeds" of this new art form. son, "reorganize his thinking. new Student Center. ~o she would propose a bakery shop in LaFortune waves retlectcd from an object onto Jackson explained the impact work to improve the present one. similar to the t1ower shop which is the emulsion of light-sensitive film. holography will have in the future "We read art like we read books 
Hoelscher has had experience in now there. A final suggestion of Laser light is then re-exposed on the by comparing the new medium to -from left to right. We are used to campus-wide organizations as a rep­Yurko's would be that the l'niversity tllm and the resulting image photography. "We are so gluned seeing things on tlat surfaces so un­re~entative on the Joint Engineering make the annual football Homecom­becomes three-dimensional. with the luxury of instant images fortunately we're beginning to think Council. She also ha~ been a Section ing celebration a major social event. "It's (the exhibit) a piece of his­that we can't imagine what it was that way," she said. "You don't look Leader and IIall Trea~urer in Lyons. Yurko feels "hetter communica­tory," she continued. "regardless of like before photography was in-at holography. you look into it." 

Other proposals Hoelscher would tions" and "closer relations" are wht·ther it's (holography) an aes­support include cahle TV and a needed between the Student Senate thetic art piece or not." reduced meal plan for those who do and hall governments. "Scientists are artists and artists not eat all the meals for which they've paid. 
Dave McAvoy has "seen a lot of the problems" and "knows what can be done" on campus. The Dillon • • • Driver junior stresses his accessibility. He would meet with the hall presidents pendent owner-operators had
continuedfrompage 1 

and circulate his phone number and parked their rigs. Government oftl­address among his constituents. punctured tires on a dozen cars, · cials said it was probably more like 
The Gon:rnment major believes incuding a police cruiser; North 20,000. there is "a need for common sense Dakota authorities were investigat­The federal truck-use tax that has budgeting" in Student Government. ing the theft and hurning of a truck angered drivers doesn't take effect 
He cites the large surpluses in the and the Tennessee Highway patrol until July 1985. The truckers also Student l'nion and Judicial Board set up a special command post to in­want a lid on state highway taxes, a budgets as examples of this need. vestigate reports of violence. rollback of the new federal levies :VtcAvoy would support proposals :\like Parkhurst. president of the and a reconsideration of the 55 
to create a conference room for Independent Truckers Association, m.p.h. speed limit. A nickel-a-gallon Placement Bureau interviews. build estimated :VIonday that as many as boost in the federal gasoline tax a new sidewalk on the west side of -:'0.000 of the nation's 100.000 inde-takes effect in April. 
the library "to replace the dirt path," 
rdinm the book exchange. place 
new phones at the library. and 
reopen tht· Knight!-> of Columhu~ 
huilding ti1r students to rent. lie 
notes the Knighb of Columbu~ had ht·en gi,·ing the money they made to charity. ~o 'llldenb are not the onlv ones hurt In· its closing. 
\ll.\,.01 abo would propo~e h;l\ing mak and femak dorm' "work togt'lher h1r social concern~ ... planng a weight set at Stepan Ccn· ter. and thing or removing the iron fences on the so·uth Quad. 
Alison Yurko says the most im­portant issues in her campaign are improving the D-6 parking facility and working on an undergraduate student center. The Lyons sopho­more-says the parking lot behind the ROTC building needs to be "filled 

CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
Applications for Student Activity Funds are 
now available at the Student Activities Office, 1st Floor LaFortune. The second semester allocation is designed to fund groups which either did not receive funds first semester, or in special cases, groups which were funded who demonstrate additional need. 
The new deadline for applying is Friday, February 4. ~ 

An Tostal Organizational Meeting 

Sunday, February 6 7pm LaFortune Little Theatre 

All interested students are urged to attend. 
The Observer Wednesday, February 2, 1983 -page 4 

U.S. Vice President George Bush delivers a speech at a reception given him by West Berlin's Governing Mayor in West Berlin Mon· day evening. At the endofhisspeech, Bush read an open letter to the people ofEurope from President Reagan offering to sign an agree­ment with the Soviets "banning U.S. andSoviet intermediate-range land-based missilesfrom theface ofthe earth." Bush is now in The Hague, the second stop on his seven-nation tour of Europe. See story at right. ( AP Photo) 

There was no estimate ofthe price tag, but House Speaker Thomas P.Finance forum lecture O'Neill Jr., D-Mass., has spoken 
previously ofan anti-recession effort costing 55 billion to S7 billion. 
Aides suggested later that might



Schwab outlines firm~ success 
By MIKE LEPRE 
Senior StaffReporter 
Citing a commitment to simplicity as the key to his firms' enormous financial success, Charles 
R. Schwab outlined the history be­hind his business's emergence as the nation's largest low-commission brokerage firm in the country. 
Speaking as part of Notre Dame's 25th annual Finance Forum, Schwab, founder, Chairman of the Board and ChiefExecutive Officerof Charles Schwab and Co. Inc., told future entreprenuers "the more you can simplify a business, the more successful you will be." 
Although Schwab asserted that his firm has experienced "phenomenal growth over the last seven to eight years," he admitted that "times were not always so good for us." 
The initial obstacle that Schwab's firm encountered was in the area of raising capital. "At first," recalled Schwab,"no one wanted to finance us, including venture capitalists and banks." 
In search of funds, Schwab said that he "simply passed the hat around to friends, family, and employees," noting that one of his uncles was instrumental in con­tributing the capital which aiding the opening of the firm's first office in Sacramento, Cal. 
Schwab pointed to an "employee stock ownership plan" as an key fac­tor allowing his business to flourish since its opening. Schwab's firm has been so successful that it currently 

·---------------------------------------­
: Seniors of Notre Dame and St. Mary's unite i
I " The Main Event" 
• is coming to Chicago I April 9, 1983i Join the hundreds who have I already started saving for the I besttime ofthe '83 year 
"' ~~ I 
~ y ~ 
t, 1 ~ ~ 
· 

~--------------~-----------------------­
Attention All Off-Campus Juniors 
~ 
As there is a mix-up with the Registrar's Office and their current off-Campus address list, you are cordially being invited to attend the Hall Party of your choice on February 19 at 10:00 p.m. of the Junior Parents' Weekend. Please notify either the Hall Coordinator of your choice or myself by February 10. 
Thank you, Theresa Sawaya Hall Parties Chairperson 

"Preserve and protect" 

Bush calls for Western unity 
TilE IIA<il E, '\iETIIEIU.A~D'> .\lini~ter llan~ van den Broek, who ( AP) -\'icl' l'rl'~i<knt (il'orgt· Bu~h ~uppon l're,·ident Reagan·, "zero. called l'l''tnday tor un1t1· in the option" prop11sal. That would caned 
Wl'~tern alliance and told the Dutch tht· ~chl'duled dl'ployment later this 
"guard dog~ and watchto\\Tr~" art· year of-;-2 ~ATO nuclear missiles tht: mark of the ~ovil't systt:m. in \X"e~tern Europt· if tht: ~oviet~ Bush said that a~ he stood at tht· eliminate their mi~"ile t(>rce aimed 
Berlin Wallt:arlil'r hl' "thought ofall at \X't:stern Europe. we've fought to pre~en·e and Thl're has been ~trong resistance protect, and of all those in the East hert: on the plan to place ·IH of the 
the Sakharovs and thl' ;\/ATO mbsiles on Dutch soil, and Shcharanskys -who pay such a four successive governments ha,·e dear price t(>r ext·rcising the righb postponed a decision on tht· issut:. which we take for grantnl." !\londay, in West Berlin, Bush 
Bush spoke at a glittt·ring royal released a Reagan letter in which the banquet olfered by Queen Beatrix. t:.S. president offered to hold a sum­The Netherlands is his second stop mit meeting with Soviet chid'\'uri\'. on a sever .1ation tour of jittery Andropov and sign an agreement allies to.promote the North Atlantic banning all t -~ and ~ol"it·t ml'dium rangt:, land-b,1~nl missile~ "fr(>m the t;tce ol the earth .. 
Andropov rejected the propo,al vestnday, ~a1·ing it reprt:sented "tht: same old z~:ro option" and would amount to unilateral ~.oviet disarma­ment. 

lkagan. in an intenT\\" with theSt. Louis Post-!Jispatcb aboard Air Force One a~ he !lew to St. Loub to make a spt:ech, was asked it he was "trying to send a new signal to the Soviet t'nion." He replied, "No. 
Frankly. I was simplY responding to their vast propaganda effort that would try to discount our legitimate proposal for arms reduction.;'' 

Treaty Organization's plan to deploy new medium-range nuclear missiles in Western Europe. 


Democrats propose 
Anatoly Shcharansky and Andrei Sakharov are Soviet dissidents. 

emergency jolb bill 
Shcharansky, a Jew who sought to 
emigrate, is serving a 13-year sen­WASHINGTON (AP) -House tence for a 1978 spying conviction, Democratic leaders vowed yester­and Sakharov, a physicist who won day to push a program of "relief, the Nobel peace prize in 1975, has recovery and reconstruction" to been forced to live in "internal combat the recession, beginning 
exile" in Gorky. with emergency bills to create jobs Bush is to meet today with and provide food and shelter for the Premier Ruud Lubbers and Foreign needy. 
be the amount dedicated to a has 375,000 accounts and 52 offices program of public service jobs and throughout the country. soup kitchen-type relief for the na­Schwab noted that this success 
tion's unemployed and homeless. was a direct result of "reliance on 
The White House has promised to direct response marketing, the early 
submit its own job~ bill, but it is not recognition of the importance of 
expected to include the public service or public works employ­

computer tecnology, and the wil­ment under consideration by the
lingness to take risks." In the area of response marketing, 
Democrats. Schwab said that all ofhis company's 
Even so, House Democratic Whip ads were "designed solely to attract 
Thomas Foley of Wa~ilington noted that some Senate Republicans are supporting a S2 billion public service jobs program and said, "We hope that the president can be per­
suaded" to go along Vl;th the Democratic approach. 
Meanwhile, Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger continued to in­sist th:.t the Pentagon budget cannot be trimmed further. Weinberger spoke before the Senate Armed Services Committeeas he began sell­ing the administration 5238.6 bil­lion military spending plan for 1984. 
O'Neill and Foley also said House and Senate Democrats would work to develop a longer-term plan for "long·term economic prosperity." 
"With 14 million people out of work -the highest number in his­tory -it is time for a combined program of relief, recovery and reconstruction," O'Neill said. 

a response, because as a young com­pany you have to learn to be very et: 
ficient." 
• • . Exchange 
"Our ad!> make it very easy for our 

customers to respond to us," asserted Schwab. He also recom­continuedfrom page I mended the Wall Street journal as one ofthe best media for advertising Baker does see some advantages one's business services. in the academic co-exchange. "You 
Schwab advised that when a firm's have a wider range of courses to advertisements are workin~ well, choose from and you are exposed to they should not be altered for the more than one kind of idea," she sake ofchange. "Ifyou get an ad that said. works, continue to use it," said Information on Notre Dame stu­Schwab. dents enrolled in Saint Mary's classes 
Another important component of were not available from the Schwab and Co.'s success was its registrar's offfice at Notre Dame. ability to use new technology, According to an office employee, according to the founder. Schwab they do not have such records. belives that his firm "could not have Tony Deceanne is taking a course kept its head above water without at Saint Mary's in social problems. "I using new technological means. had a friend in it last semester who 
This made possible the delivery of a said it was really good," Deceanne high quality of service to our cus­commented. "The one at Notre tomers." Dame was at 8 o'clock in the morn· 
"You must be willing early on in ing, and I couldn't really get up that your company's development to early." take the . risks," in~tructed 
Schwab,"and do not forget to keep "You get a lot ofgood exposure by in touch with your classmates. You meeting new people and having the never know if one of them will end chance to exchange new ideas," he up being a financial tycoon." continued. 
Come hear ragtime music!! In the Oak Room 
Thursday, 9pm donation, $.50 
(jet 1n th€ ffiaRbl (jRas SPIRit!!! -,a,vc,....,__,--~~~ 
Social interaction between stu­
dents on the two campuses is 
facilitated by the meal ticket ex­
change, program. At Saint Mary's the 
program is supervised by Student 
Activities Director Mary Ann 
O'Donnell. 
"We allot a certain number oftick­
ets for the dinner meal on nights that 
we do qot have special dinners," 
O'Donnell said. Tickets are dis­
tributed in the residence halls. Co­
ex meal tickets are especially 
popular for students who have eve­
ning classes or meetings at Notre 
Dame. 
Saint Mary's meal tickets are dis­tributed to Notre Dame students through the Student Union. Notre Dame Director of Student Activities Jim McDonnell pointed out the pos­sible need for lunch-time ticket ex­changes as well as dinner tickets. He said that a Notre Dame student with Saint Mary's courses before and after lunch finds it inconvenient to make the trip to Notre Dame and back during the lunch hour. 
The shuttle bus is another aspect of the co-exchange idea. It was originally intended for daytime transportion between campuses, according to McDonnell. 
"When that seemed to work out 
so conveniently, the students got 
the idea to run it in the evening, 
too," he said. 
A weekend and evening charge of !1fteen cents was an attempt to make up the additional costs of extending th•e service. "But1it comes nowhere close to paying the bill," McDonnell said. "The costs of gasoline and maintainance have skyrocketed since the program's inception." 
"The students seem committed to 
maintaining the service. We haven't 
really been seriously concerned 
with it ending," he continued. 

---~----~-----....-------~--___,~ ~-­
Wednesday, February 2, 1983-page 5



Editorials 
Some public relations tips for FLOC 
Alienation is the one oh~tacle which all campaigns must over~ome. The Farm Labor Organizing Committee, to he effective, must not only present its boycott against Campbell products; it must also deal directly with the inbred prejudice of a generally xenophobic Notre Dame community. 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 
FLOC -the title itself conjures up feelings of anti-capitalistic sentiment. :\tost every :'>/otre Dame student is an urban dweller; he thinks that farmers are no more than the Combine Brothers ofKeenan Re1•ue fame who buy Hoosier Booher Cubes and Disaster Forecaster Kits. 
The word "labor"' conjures up dreams of Jimmy Hoffa and Teamster bullies who steal union dues, then suddenly disappear. 
And "committee" easily become~ a 
totalitarian catch-phrase ofthe Committee for 
Public Safety of the French Revolution or the 
Politburo committee of the Soviet Cnion. 
FLOC's slogan, "Hasta Ia Victoria," is itself foreign to an English-speaking culture which so easily connects Spanish slogans and the Sandinistas of Nicaragua. Many also see the brilliant red (associated with communism) and black (associated with anarchy) banner of 
FLOC as an outright attempt to overthrow the 
forces of democracy as an eagle cries for 
justice. 
FLOC needs a new image, but it need not lose its own feeling for the earth and people who work in it. FLOC must come to realize that specific institutions respond more readily to campaigns which are aimed directly at people who can easily identify with the cam­paigners. Those of the Notre Dame com­munity who can read Spanish or who are impressed by Caesar Chavez-style campaigns are going to vote for the boycott anyway. The people who FLOC is trying to sway are the people who are most easily alienated by any 
foreign language or by an organization whose name seems un-American. Baldemar Velasquez needs a new presenta­tion philosophy; the strongest support of the 
boycott came not from Velasquez, but from a member of the audience who pointed out facts of the case, including the percentage of farm workers who are American citizens (about HO percent) and the relative mixture 
of f~rm  workers (laborers  include  whites,  
blacks,  Vietnamese,  Haitians  and  Puerto  
Rica .ns ­ not only Mexicans).  

The Notre Dame community, like so many other predominantly white communities. is easily impressed by such statistics; numbers which seem to make the boycott more manageable. 
Most Notre Dame students know the dif­ference between a legal liability and a moral responsibility. The case is a moral problem which must be resolved by thought and reflection. To cloud the issue by making Campbell's into a lawbreaker is stretching the truth to say the least. 

Few Americans will support a group which a spokesman identifies as "our people." With­out meaning to alienate his listeners, Velasquez repeatedly used such community term~ to emphasize the community spirit of the workers; however, Velasquez alienated many who cannot empathize with the migrant, only sympathize. And the major thrust of any campaign is to inspire empathy among equals, not develop sympathy of so­called superiors for supposed inferiors. 
The Caesar Chavez image of oneness with the workers is a noble and integral part of the FLOC movement. but the general "code of dress" and advertising demanded by the stu­dent body is quite different than that which is used by FLOC and its organizers. Velasquez's khaki shirt and jeans juxtaposed against Direc­tor of Student Activities James McDonnell's suit and tie only brought to the fore the tremendous gap between the upper middle class student and the migrant farm worker. 
Perhaps Velasquez could sport attire more like those 300 who attended Monday night's meeting. The same effect ofpoverty could still be transmitted by Velasquez if he wore the same suit to all his lectures, most ofwhich oc­cur not i.n the fields, but in auditoriums much like the Memorial Library. 
Another ploy, that ofconsistent advertising, might help the FLOC drive. FLOC's most publicized support comes from members of religious organizations, most notably the 

Catholic Church. While the publicity of such support may well intluence the Notre Dame community, the greater part of American culture sees Catholic nuns and priests as idealists who cannot possibly make such en­dorsements objectively. Furthermore, the reliance upon religious opinion leaves the way open for close-minded nuns and priests to voice opposite views with the same amount 
ofsupposed Catholic clout. 
FLOC's one shining endorsement comes from the Cleveland Plain Dealer which sup­ported FLOC attempts to organize a trilateral commitee ofworkers, farmers and Campbell's to discuss the concerns ofthe tomato indusry. 
Another point of promotion concerns the advertising ploys of FLOC. The posters sprayed around campus portray a less than concerted effort of time and talent. The pos­ters are hand-printed on loud paper the likes of which many Americans connect with countrie~ in Latin America. 
If FLOC genuinely wants to carry the 
feelings of the Notre Dame campus, it should contract quality typeset copy on powerful yet unobtrusive po~ters and handouts. If FLOC wants to sway the vote ofa middle class white American student body it must advertise according to "standards" to which the media­drowned students are accustomed. Advertis­ing must appear rational and fully developed according to Anglo standards of fair advertis­ing. 
While most in FLOC would object that such ploys would either be hvpocritical or sell-out maneuvers, an observer can only wonder how FLOC could even attempt a boycott without at least in some fine sense, "selling out." After all, speakers. propaganda, and campaigns need money. 
The FLOC effort is the most directly ef­fective referendum on the ballot Feb. 8. Despite the often poorly run campaign, FLOC members must be praised for their contldence in student autonomy at a university whk·h is often more concerned about cable television and kegs than the lives of 2,000 American workers. 


P.O.BoxQ 


FLOC boycott "seeks justice" for farmworkers 
DearEditor: 
On Tuesday, Feb. H, the student body will be voting to decide whether or not to ex­tend the boycott established in 1980 ban­nng the use of Campbell Soup products at the University. The referendum, I believe, provides an opportunity for all of us to make a powerful statement endorsing the basic human rights of the migrant farmworkers in Ohio. In recent weeks, the Notre Dame FLOC Support Committee has been working to disseminate the facts concerning this im· portant issue so that every student is provided with the tools required for respon­sible decision-making. However, certain questions must be addressed further: What is the nature of the relationship in the Ohio tomato industry between the Campbell Soup Company and the migrant farmworkers represented by FLOC? What is the position held by the Campbell Soup 
Company?  What  is  the  purpose  of  the  
boycott?  
Simply put,  there  are  three parties in­ 

; volved in the dispute before us: the proces­.r~ represented by Campbell's, the 
individual tarmers, and the migrant farmworkers represented by FLOC Each year, . the processors contract with in­,dividual farmers for the sale of their tomato crop. Included in such agreements are provisions regarding the type of seed to be used, methods of fertilizing, and methods of harvesting. The farmers, in turn, contract 
with the migrants for the sale of their labor. 
The Campbell Soup Company has repeated­
ly made public statements denying any 
responsibility for the inhumane living and 
working conditions faced by the migrants on 
the grounds that they do not employ 
farmworkers directly. Accordingly, they 
refuse to sit at the bargaining table with far­
mers and migrant farmworkers to reach an 
equitable settlement regarding FLOC 
demands. 
In an Ohio Senate investigation of the living and working conditions of migrant farmworkers, completed on April 28, 1981, it was found that the true locus of power in the Ohio tomato industry lies with the large processors: ;,The farmers and the migrant farmworkers find themselves in a seriou~ economic hind. Both are at the mercy of the weather and the contract with the proces­sor. Farmers can only pay migrants better wages and improve conditions if they receive more money for their tomatoes." The report went on to say that "they (the processors) control the profits the farmer may expect and, directly or indirectly, the migrant's earnings." In order to succeed, 

therefore, any agreement regarding FLOC's demands for better conditions must include the processors who hold the decisive posi­tion of power in the tomato industry. In voting for the boycott, we have an oppor­tunity to join with o.thers in pressuring the Campbell Soup Company to assume its responsibility in the industry and to sit down with the farmworkers and the farmers to dis­cuss the terms offuture contracts. 
After forming in 1968, the Farm Labor Organizing Committee initially directed its energies at the farmers to provide decent housing, put an end to child labor practices, and to honor the minimum wage laws. Be­tween 1968 and 1971, FLOC was successful in getting contracts with 33 individual far­mers. Unfortunately, meeting even the most basic of human needs costs money. The far­mers who agreed to improve the living con­ditions of migrants could not compete for production contracts with the processors because of higher costs. Obviously, the far­mers too had their hands tied. As a result, FLOC redirected its efforts toward the large processors in the form ofa boycott. 
To see the conditions under which the migrants work is to witness the need for change. To analyze the power mechanism in the Ohio tomato industry is to understand the need for three-party negotiations be­tween the farmers, farmworkers, and the large processors. The boycott is the only channel through which the farmworkers can communicate their demands to the Campbell Soup Company. As citizens seeking justice, we have an opportunity to set future University policy, to voice our support and to vote to extend the boycott in the referendum on Feb. 8. 
Thomas]. Kane Senim·Economics Major 

IheO~~========== Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief......... .................... Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily retlect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of eitl-ter institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
SportsEditor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir author~. Column space is available to all members ofthe '-Ommunity, 
Features Editor ..................... joseph Musumeci
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966
(219) 239-5303 
-.~--------~~----~--~--.---------.----.-----.---------------------------~~------------r-------------------------------­
) 

~~S tt0 W C fi~S_E_____
Wednesday, Feb1ruary 2, 1983--page 6 


Isis Gallety teopens 
-~-­
J~. 

-Last night, the new Isis Gallery opened its doors to the public with a reception and an exhibit en­titled, "Retrospect: 1982." The works are taken
·-J; ; 

'i • r ~ from the collection compiled by artists all last '~j-~ ! ;;f 

semester when the gallery was closed for renova­
tion. Observer photographer Ed Carroll was on 
hand to capture some of the poses and pieces from the night. For more on the new Isis, look for Angela 
Adamson's story in Friday's Showcase. 
Now, fot the FINAL answers 
F
inally I close the books on over IS. "Turn! Turn! Turn!" by the vention and the Zodiacs Ohio Players two years of popular and rock Byrds 39. "The Sounds ofSilence" by 61. "Philadelphia Freedom" by 82. "(Sittin' On) The Dock of the music trivia. Here are the answers to I6. "Someday We'll Be Together" Simon and Garfunkel the Elton John Band Bay" by Otis Redding alii 00 trivia questions onBillboard by Diana Ross and the Supremes 40. "Let It Be" by the Beatles 62. "Suspicious Minds" by Elvis 
83. "To Know Him Is to Love magazine number one songs. Ifyou 17. "Ncl Blu Dipinto Di Blu 41. "Paperback Writer" by the Presley Him" by the Teddy Bears 

want to recall the questions, you'll (Volare)" by Domenico Modugno Beatles 63. "Best of My Love" by the have to dig them up from past 18. "Lucy in the Sky with 42. "Crazy Little Thing Called Eagles 84. "Seasons in the Sun" by Terry papers, for rt>om does not permit me Diamonds" by Elton John Love" by Queen 64. "Up Where We Belong" byjoe Jacks to publish both. Even ifyou don't 19. "Stuck on You" by Elvis Pres­43. "Dancing Queen" by Abba Cocker and jennifer Warnes 
85. "Everything Is B.:autiful" by have those old papers. this is still a ley 44. "Go Away Little Girl" by Don­65. "Strangers in the Night" by Ray Stevens 

good cross section ofnumber-one 20. "Hello, Dolly!" by Louis ny Osmond Frank Sinatra hits through the years. 45. "Go Away Little Girl" by Steve 86. "The Great Pretender" by the
Armstrong 66. "You Send Me" by Sam Cooke 
Lawrence Platters
2I. "Who Can It Be Now?" by Men 67. "Last Train to Clarksville" by 
46. "Telstar" by the Tornadoes
At Work the Monkees 87. "It's Now or Never" by Elvis 
Tim Neely 
47. "We're An American Band" by 
22. "Tighten Up" by Archie Bell 68. "Sugar, Sugar" by the Archies Presley and the Drells 
Grand Funk 
48. "In the Year 2525" by Zager 69. "My Ding-a-Ling" by Chuck. 88. "I Want to Hold Your Hand"
23. "Tonight's the Night" by Rod Berry by the Beatlesttlvia Stewart and Evans 

24. "Mandy" by Barry Manilow 49. "TSOP (The Sound of Phladel­70. "I Heard It Through the 89. "Running Bear" byJohnny 
I. "Little Star" by the Elegants Grapevine" by Marvin Gaye Preston
phia)" by MFSB
25. "Sheila" by Tommy Roe2. "You Don't Bring Me Flowers" 26. "Maneater" by Daryl Hall and SO. "Winchester Cathedral" by 71. "Rock Around the Clock" by 90. "Laughter in the Rain" by Neil by Barbra (Streisand) and Neil john Oates the New Vaudeville Band Bill Haley and His Comets Sed aka 

(Diamond) 
27. "Tequila" by the Champs 72. "Can't Buy Me Love" ;,y the 
91. "The Ballad of the Green3. "Hanky Panky" by Tommy 

28. "Le Freak" by Chic And now, Part II, ofwbicb Mike Beatles 
Berets" by Staff Sgt. Barry Sadler, l" "·James and the Shondells Marz, our big winnerfrom last

29. "Grazing in the Grass" by 73. "Papa Was a Rollin' Stone" by Army Special Forces4. "IfYou Leave Me Now" by 
Hugh Masekela week, answered 40 correct~y: 
the Temptations
Chicago S1. "Mr. Sandman" by the Chor­92. "Stagger Lee" by Lloyd Prir· 
30. "Good Vibrations" by the 74. "Love Theme from A Star Is

S. "Georgia on My Mind" by Ray dettes 93. "All You Need Is Love" • 
Beach Boys Born (Evergreen)" by Barbra 
Charles Beatles
52. "Babe" by Styx 
3I. "The Chipmunk Song" by the 'Streisand6. "Big Bad John" byJimmy Dean

... ' Chipmunks 53. "Ebony and Ivory" by Paul 94. "Theme from 'S.W.A.T."' by 
7. "My Sharona" by the Knack 75. "Sukiyaki" by Kyu Sakamoto
McCartney with Stevie Wonder
32. "I'm Telling You Now" by Rhythm Heritage
8. "Love Is a Many-Splendored 76. "Dominique" by the Singing
54. "Fingertips Pt. 2" by Little 
Freddie and the Dreamers Nun 95. "Bennie and the Jets" by Elton Thing" by the Four Aces 
Stevie Wonder
33. "Rise" by Herb Alpert

9. "Light My Fire" by the Doors 55. "Help Me, Rhonda" by the 77. "Roses Are Red" by Bobbv john
34. "This Guy's In Love with You"

10. "Ben" by Michael jackson Beach Boys Vinton 96. "American Woman" by the
by Herb Alpert
I1. "The Morning After" by Guess Who
56. "HeyJude" by the Beatles
35. "The Twist" by Chubby 78. "Centerfold" by theJ. Geils
Maureeen McGovern 57. "The Theme from A Summer 97. "Heart ofGold" by Neil Young 
Checker Band12. "My Eyes Adored You" by
I 36. "Love You Inside Out" by the Place" by Percy Faith 79. "Crocodile Rock" by Elton 98. "Teen Angel" by Mark Dinning
Frankie Valli 
I Bee Gees 58. "Honky Tonk Women" by the john 99. '"Cherry Pink and Apple Blos­
13. "Strangeron the Shore" by Mr.
' Rolling Stones 
I 
som White" by Perez Prado80. "Top ofthe World" by the Car­Acker Bilk 37. "How Deep ls Your Love" by 
59. "Dreams" by Fleetwood Mac 
P<~nters 100. "(Just Like) Starting Over·· I4. "Whatever Gets YQU Thru the the Bee Gees 


60. "Stay" by Maurice Williams 81. "Love Rolkrcoastcr" by the by John Lennon
Night" byJohn Lennon 38. "Fly, Robin, Fly" by Silver Con­

! 
r 
----------------------~ 
---~ ----~~---------~------------­
··············································································~···· 

The -Observer Features Section 
Wednesday, February 2, 1983 -page 7 

Amost dQngerous occupQtion 
M
any time~. when 1 ha\'C fell lost in the maze of It would take a master locksmith to reshape the key that hhrarv ~tacb. bookstore lmes. and shower would tit the door to happinc:~~­crowds. I h;tve undc:nakc:n the dangerous occupation of 1wonder, though, if the: craftsman, when found, trying to d1scover the meaning of happiness. would he allowed to practice hi~ craft. 
Like I said. it is a dangerous occupation. Philosophers It seems that the: passage of time: and there­for centuries han· proclaimed that happiness is this. evaluation of socictal bdieb has had a poli~hing dti:ct that. and the: othc:r thing. In our own c:ra. Charles Schulz on tht· shape ofthose keys. Thq have: heen modified to captured the essence of the: 4uest with his continuous some extent. hut the most basic tenet~ still remain. series of drawings starring that lovable canine:, Snoopv. They are embedded in the textbook~ ofthe great and that-hc:gan. "Happiness i~ . not-so-great universities. as anil;lcts of an age of crude: 
The: "!Ill-in-the-blank" answers ranged from a warm locksmithing. puppy (I will persunallv \'<Hich for that) to Linus' warm People can demand the locksmith make: whatevcr hlanket to JUSt about .mvthing vou could possibly think size, shape: or type: of kn that they want. Rut will they of that made: Charlie Brown and company smile with lbtcn to him whcn he: tdb them that it i,n·t ncccssarily glc:t.:. The answc:rs were: simple. the: key that is the probll'm. \1ayhe the} arc: trying to un­
lock the wrong door. 

The U'nJllf!, door' Hmc presumptuous oftbe lock­

Tati Btown 
Mnith' Keys ar<' bis !Justness. not doors. He is supposed to fix tbe key, not gil'e adl'ice. He is a locksmitb, not a pbilosopber. 
feQtures "Take the kcv home: and try it again. If it still doesn't t1t. then come hack and I will see what I can do. Rut .\"Bill Cosln· would say. "lhght." . make: sure you usc the right key." Fine, :'vir. Locbmith. 
~o, here: I stand ht'fore the dollr which hides happi­nes~ from me. As I pull out my jailt-r's ring with its as­sortment of large:, small, silver. and brass key~. !look at 
:'>loway. the: door, at its ordinariness, at its simplici.ty, at its wood. At least, I don't think so. 
It is a very normal door. made oforganic materials. It is Hut then again without gilded decoration or statuary. It is plain and tlat. No. Finding the key, I start to insert it into the lock but my Ahsolutt:ly not. Look at all of the men and women concentration is interrupted by a sound within. It 
who have dedicated their lives to this cerebral activity. hegins quietly, like: the pianissimo of a tlutc: as it builds 
They have: spent year~ standing in front ofgrandiose to a glorious trill. Then it hecomes louder, bigger, roun­marhlc: structures, advocating their version of happi­der. ness. Their bc:liet:s arc: as old as the: Acropolis and as new I can't identify the.: sound though it is disturbingly 
as the Stepan Chembtry Building, but all of them hold familiar.! pause, not quite sure ifl should break the ten­within them what someone thinks is the key to happi­sion between not knowing and wanting to know. ness. I stand there:, as though I were standing among the It's a key word, a key phrase, a key idea. It's a key that stacks in the library. or in line at the bookstore or next unlocks the door hehind which all ofhumanity will lind to the sink in the showers. I wonder if trying to find happiness. happiness is too dangerous an occupation for me:. However. some ofthe keys are deceptive. They may Yet, there I stand, on the threshold of the answer, be: the: right brand ofkey (optimism, Catholicism, or ag­unable to open the door. nosticism) or they might be the right shape (round or And the: sound continues. square), bur they don't always fit Then another sound is added to it. A low hush Any journeyman locksmith would have a fine time emanates from behind the door. What is that sound that refining the: rough edges of the: keys ofphilosophers. It will answer all my questions about happiness? would rake a little more than llnely grinding the: edges. I unlock the door and look in. Perhaps a new type: ofmetal would be needed. Maybe: a The sound is the: crying ofa baby and the hush of its longer or shorter stem. Possibly different size: grooves. mother. The answer to my questions is simple. Life. 

ffiuppetry comes of age 
I 
guess muppetry has come of pre-Muppets short film Henson did layered with detail it'll knock your age. We got a hint of it when in the Sixties. The movie, socks off. Cnfortunately, once the Yoda emerged from the swamp Timepieces was a neat little ex­giant clam has taken his bow and speaking like Fozzie Bear on an in­ercise in filmic rhythms. It the Gelflings are all through with tergalactic high in Tbe Empire borrowed very little from reality their "dream-sharing", you'll arise Strikes Back. And now, in panavi­and in a very compact ten minutes from the theater tloor havng found sion living color, we have been it created a brand new dimension your socks and the dreary script invited into the mind ofMupper­offrenzy from which ac­will have again taken control ofthe masrerJim Henson with his epic tor/direct~r Henson could only vision. fantasy, The Dark Crystal. plead, "Help... Maybe what Henson should 
The film weaves a tale of magic have done with Lew Grade's
For me, The Dark Crystal was 
involving two respective id-and money was open a ~orr of Dark
going to be a parade ofall the 
Crystal Disneyland. In this place
images that were going through
Dennis Chalifout we might have enjoyed all the
Henson's head since he did 
visuals of the film without going
Timepieces fifteen years ago. Yes, it 
through the traumatic experience
is a parade ofa whole lot ofimages 
ofa lousy script.
(you can hardly keep up with the:
movie review 
cast ofthousands), but Henson has 
superego-like races, The Skeksis 
relied much roo much on his un­
and The Mystics. In the meantime, 
speakably weak script. a notably endangered species, the 
Some people might grow blus­Geltlings, who have the dubious 
tery and red offace. It's a fantasy pleasure ofbearing strong 
film. The kids will love it. Com­
resemblance to Chastity Bono, are 
plaining about Henson's storyline
given the duty ofrighting their fan­
is like complaining about the 
tastical universe's wrongs. 
aerodynamics offlying monkeys. 
From this point, the film con­This would be true ifone could cerns the Gelfling.;· journey to the categorize The Dark Crystal as a castle of the: Skeksi,; in order that children's film or as Hollywood's 
the dark crystal might be repaired tag-line writers are so eager to put and the movie might have a satis­it, a "children ofall ages" film. Sor­factory conclush.>n. ry. The movie's biggest problem is This whole plot synopsis might its lack ofan audit ·JCe. C'' · lren 
very well sound ~wfully silly to will be,. ... Jed out ot t:wir wits you. Well, give yourself a pat on by the tilm's earthily haro'-l the back, it plays awfully silly in the qualities. Adults will be predt:.:ting darkened cinema too, which 'the film's conclusion and every makes me wond,:,· exactly what plot-twist along the way, during 
Henson haa in r. t"1:nd v. hen The the opening credits. Dark Crystal wa~ still in hts head. All ofthis is not to say the film 
It's tim~: !let the geliling our of isn't visually exciting. You ..:an £ee the bag. I was extremely disap· every cent ofthe S20 million spent pomted with Jim Hl"nson. Film on the production. Aswamp scene nuts will rememt"l~ r rhc briliant in the middle of the film is so 
more thQn Q mohQwk 
B
ow Wow Wow is a group better known for its manager and al­bum cover than its music. 
The manager is Malcolm McLaren, the man who fought with and threatened to take over the last group he managed, the Sex Pistols, who rode the wave ofpunk rock in the late 1970's in the images oflg­gy Pop and The New York Dolls. 
McLaren's management and his production ofa movie based on and starring The: Sex Pistols, The Great Rock and Roll Swindle, caused the break up of the group as Johnny Lyndon (then known as 
Johnny Rotten) and McLaren fought for control. 
The album cover is pictured ahove. Bow Wow Wow's lead singer is a 16-year-old Parisian who was "found" by McLaren, given a mohawk and body paint, and made an item. 
The album itself,/ Want Candy, is titled after their first single and popular video (seen by anyone who has watched MTI' for any long duration). Released in 1982, the album is getting a second boost by 


Ed Kontady 
record review 

MCA Records. Bow Wow Wow's musical direction is guided by 
McLaren, who is obviously aiming for a pop stance with much, much 
intluence. All in all, this is quite an electic album, with English punk, 
African, Indian and reggae intluences. 
The: tlrst cut, "I Want Candy," a sort ofCarribean pop number.The 
song provides some excellent guitar work and very smooth and 
melodic vocals. 

"Baby, Oh No," the latest single, a catchy tune with some in­
credible bass work, follows. The sound is soft and supple, 
synchronizing well with the vocals. 
The third song is "Louis Quatorze," a very lyrically-disturbing 
number. ("When he: comes bursting through that door/Mama 
shrieks and hits the tloor/Cutting inside is Louis Quatorze/He's so 
young and dangerous"). There are some excellent drum melodies in 
the song, with the drummer leading the rhythm and forging the 
melody. The vocals exude a mystifingquality oflove/hate. ("!love it 
when he says so seriously/With his gun in my back/Honey, make 
love to me/Louis Quatorze, I love you"). 
Next, "Cowboy" is an anthem for all women who ask for real boys, instead ofthe school boys that surround them. The tune has a heavier guitar sound, much muddier than anything else on the al­bum, with very good rhythm and a very nice vocal background by the three men. 
Side one ends with "Mile High Club," an interesting In­dian/punk/reggae number. The very exotic guitars steal the song with their great feel and high volume mix. 
Opening side two, "Go Wild In The Country," a very punk and spasmodic song uses very ordinary rhythms and patchwork lyrics. ("I can get a train/! don't need no hamburgers/No take away/No bake and take/No strawberry milkshake"). It's a nice try, but it is as deep as a reflecting pool in December. 
"Jungle Boy" ensue"s, a tune with definite African influence done well. The guitar adds melody while keeping the rhythm intact, with the best solo on the album. Unfortunately, both "Go Wild In The Country" and "Jungk Boy" are too long and drawn out. 
An instrumental, "El Boss Dicho." follows. It presents some good guitar/bass/drum interwork. The song is interesting and the short length prevents annoyance and boredom. 
The next song is "(I'm A) TV Savage," an English punk tune with 
the conflicting vocals of that genre. It is an adequate song, but the 
idea is shallow. A very spirited rhythm section drives this song. 
The album closes with "King Kong," a not-very-cute novelty song. It is not innovative, inspirational, nor interesting. 
I Want Cundy proves to be a very worthy debut album, with Bow Wow Wow spreading its wings (and intluences) in a predominantly solid effort. Not everything they try works, and what does work does,'; all come togNher. But it is a strong debut by four talented 
'l'!W·.dan~. 
--~ ~---~--­

~jb()~tS=lJ===~=~=·~~~l:S========~=====================W==ec=1n=e=sd=a=y,=F=eb=r=u=a0=r=2=,l=9=8=3==p=a=ge==8 
Bv The Ohsert•er anu Tbe Associated Press 
Vonnie Thompson, a 5-8 guard from Saginaw. .\lich.. has made a verbal committment to attend Notre Dame next fall. women's basketball coach .\lary DiStanislao announced. The two-time :\lichigan all-State selection averaged l-i points. five assists and t1ve steals per game in leading Carrollton High School to two consecutive Michigan Class C titles. Wolverine state girls' teams play an autumn schedule. "Most schools recruited her as an off-guard. hut we feel that she'll be more valuable as a lead guard, because she likes to take control ofa ballgame," says DiStanislao. "She's a fearless bal­lhandler. shoots well. is very quick and plays good defense. She could be a lot like a John Paxson ...for us." Carrollton won state championships in three ofThompson's four seasons at the school. ­
The Observer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team lost to 
Goshen College on the road vesterdav 72-68. Missv VanOrt led the SMC attack with .30 points ~~d 2.3 rebounds. Elain~ Suess added 14 points in the losing effort. The Belles are now 5-9 on the season. Their next action will take place this weekend at the Hanover Col­lege Tournament. -The Observer 
The women's golf team is holding a meeting at 6:.30 p.m. today in Corby Hall. Call Mary Beth at 1277 or Julit: at ""905 ifyou cannot attend. -The Obserl'er . . 
NCAA-VFY volunteers are reminded to pick up their tickets for Saturday's South Carolina game in Steve Orsini's office any time this week. Ifyou have any questions. contact one of the student directors. -The Obserr,er 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Clubwill 
hold its tlrst meeting on Sundav, Feb. 6 at 1:00 p.m. in the weightroom on the third floor of the Rockne Memorial. Attendance is verv important. Memberships will he taken and special club hours and policies will be explained. Anyone interested in weightlifting, bodybuilding, or powerlifting (no experience necessary) is welcome. If you arc interested, but are unable to attend, call Matt at 
1581 or Pat at 8677. -The Obsen>er 
Notre Dame-Fordham tickets for the Fch. 10 game at the Byrne Meadowlands Arena are available at half-price to students at the ACC ticket office. The Irish play the second game ofa doubleheader with Manhattan taking on Holy Cross in the first game. Student tickets are SS.•-The Obsen;er 
Henning to Atlanta 
StiWANEE, Ga. ( AP) -Dan lkn­
ning, who hdped guidt: the Wa~h­
ington Redskins to the ~upcr Bowl 
title as an assistant, wa~ named head 
coach of the Atlanta Falcons y~.:stcr~ 
dav, the sixth coach in the :'llational 
football Lt·ague cluh's history. 
Henning, -10, an a~sistant head 
coach and offensive coordinator un­
der joe Gibbs at Washington, 
replaced Leeman Bennett, who was 
fired Jan. 1-i by the falcons. 
At a news conference yesterday, Henning said he agreed to take the job during a meeting in Los Angeles on Monday, the day after the Redskim defeated Miami 27-1..., in the Super Bowl in nearby Pasadena. Terms of his multi-year contract were not disclosed. 
Eddie LeBaron, the Falcons' ex­
ecutive vice president, said Henning 
was the team's first choice among 
four candidates. 
"We felt he was our top man 
. . .and he made it simple" by 
accepting immediately, LeBaron 
said. 

Kansas Citv :md the Los Angeles 
Rams reportedly were 1nterestnl m 
Henning as well. 
He said he preferred Atlanta "because of 1:he ownership. the management, the available player personnel. the particular facilities 
. the art: a of the country." 
The Falcons management had to wait until after Sunday's Super Bowl to interview Henning because of an NFL rule that one tcarn cannot recruit another'~ assistants until that team's season is over. 
Henning began his coaching career at florida State in 1968 as quarterback and receiver coach, and abo coached at Virginia Tech. He has been in the NFL for seven years with the New York Jets, Milami Dol­phins and Redskins. 
He was a quarterback with Wil­
liam & Mary from 1960 to 196.3 and 
played with the Norfolk Neptunes of 
the Continental League and the San 
Diego Chargers. 
Bennett, the only winning coach 
in the Falcons' 17-year history, was 
tired after the team lost to the Min-
Falcons, Bills name new coaches 
nesota \'ikings in the opening round of the playoffs. The Falcons posted a "i-2 record in the strike-shortened ~ 
19H2 NFI. season hut then lost their last three games. 
Bennett had a -!7-+l record with the Falcons, including a 1-.3 mark in playoffgames. His best season was in 19HO. when the Falcons captured the West Division title with a 12--i record. 
Bills tap Stevenson 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. (AP) ­Kay Stephenson, the Buffalo Bills' quarterback coach whose only head coaching experience had been at the high school level, was named yesterday to succeed Chuck Knox as head coach of the National football League team. 
"We're going to be sound; we're going to he a solid team," Stcpht·n­son told a news conference at Rich Stadium after his appointment was 
announced  by  club  owner  Ralph  
Wilson.  
Stephenson.  .3H,  a  Bills' quarter­ 

hack in 1968, becomes the youngest head coach in the NFL 
Knox resignt:d last week to take the head coaching job ith the Seattle Seahawks. 
Knox had brought Stephenson to he Bills from the Los Angeles Rams' c()aching stalf in 19""8. That was af ter Knox had left the Rams' head coaching job to come to Buffalo. 
Wilson ~aid ht' had talked with several candidates for the head coaching pmosition, including Tom Catlin, 51, the Bills' defensive coor­dinator, and .'vtarv Levy. former head coach of the Kansas City Chiefs. 
Wilson said he reached his deci­sion at ~i p.m. \tonday. He indicated that Stephenson's knowledge of the Bills' system and players proved in his favor. 
The team has two players -star running hack Joe Cribbs and wide receiver Jerry Butler -who were holdouts for much of the 19H2 season. Cribbs, h1s dispute with the front oftice ~till unsettled. has said he wants to he traded if the Bilb won't renegotiate his contract. 
The Bills abo have about I "i 
· players who can become free agents this year. That makes them eligible to try to negotiate with other teams, although Buffalo would have tlrst crack at tn·ing to sign them~ 

AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenly women s college baskelball teams tn The Assoctated Press poll, wtth first-place votes tn parentheses. thts season· s records and totat po1nts. Po1nts based on 20-t 9-t 8-t 7 etc Noire Dame 
opponents are Italicized 

I LOUISiana Tech (50) 19-1 2 usc 13-2 3 Texas tS-2 4 Cheyney Stale t5-t 5 Maryland 16-1 
Old Dom1n10n 15-3 7 Kentucky t6-1 8. Tennessee 15-4 9 Kaosas State 14-3 
tO Georg1a 15-3 11 Long Beach State 13-5 12. MISSISSIPPI t8-1 13. Ar1zona State 17-4 14 MISSOUri tS-3 
15. North Carolina Slate 14-4 16. UCLA 13-5 
17. Oregon State t6-3 18 Rutgers 12-5 19 Penn Slate 15-5 20. Auburn 14-4 

CENTRAL COLLEGIATE HOCKEY ASSOCIATION 
w L T GF GA Pet Bowhng Green 21 2 t 164 83 896 M1ch1gan State t8 6 0 95 55 750 Oh10 State t5 5 4 tt2 82 708 Northern Mtcntgan t3 8 3 106 87 604 Mtchtgan Tech 14 tO 0 t21 101 583 M1am1 (OhiO) tO 13 t 97 106 438 Fer'"tS State 8 13 3 91 t10 396 Notre Dame 8 15 1 104 137 .354 Mtchtgan 8 16 0 92 t22 333 Lake Supertor St 8 16 0 86 t10 333 Western M~r:htgan 8 t6 0 84 107 333 lllino1s-Ch1cago 6 t7 68 t20 .250 
last Week's Results Notre Dame &-.4, Western Mtchtgan 7-3 Bowling Green 9-t 5. lllino1s-Ch1Cago 3-1 M1ch1gan Stale 3-2. M1ch1gan 1-t Oh•o State 6-5. M1am1 2-4 Northern MtchJgan 4-7. Ferns State 2-0 M1ch1gan Tech 9-4. Lake Supenor Sl 0-5 
This Week's Games Notre Dame at Mtamt Bowling Green at Western Mtchtgan Ferns State at Mtch1gan Tech lllioo1s-Ch1cago al Oh10 Slate Lal<e Supenor St at M1ch1gan State Mu:h1gan at Northern M1ch1gan 
1.000 
896 887 808 
792 
766 
727 
665 541 524 517 495 
375 
3t8 260 
238 
203 
169 
tt5 64 

The Observer w11l accept class1fieds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 am to 4 30 p.m. However. class1f1eds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to 1nsert1on All class1f1eds must be prepa1d. 
e1ther 111 person or through the mail. 




Classifieds 
SENIOR SKI TRIPPERS I 5 WEEKS FROM TONIGHT AMPLIFIER FOR ELECTRIC GUITAR A list ot semors on THE SKI TRIP IS now SEXMUSJC FOR .A,NTPEOPLE. 

OR PIANO 120WATTS RMS. 2121NCH available tn the Student Actlvlttes Off1ce ANTMUSIC FOR SEXPEOPLE SPEAKERS, EXCEL COND CALL DAN

~-NO_T_IC_ES~~ ~~_W_A_N_TE_D~ PERSONALS I~ 
on the hrst lloor of Lafortune P1ck up ADAM ANT FANS UNITE!!!! 

1849 

your hst and make your roommate selec­TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082~ I need 3 S Carolina G A ·s (possibly to­tions. Less than two weeks!! 
OKAY McCAHTAH. where IS that salad Un1lateral Nuclear Freeze? USA USSR 0 bowl? N/Agether)lor Feb. 5 game. Money no object. 
82 SILVER CAMARRO Z-28,Sports 

UNLIMITED Push tor Bilateral Agree­Coupe-New Style. V-8 Crossflfe 1n1ect1onMILWAUKEE nders needed to and fro~ 
Call1360 and ask lor Frank~ SENIOR SKI TRIP ROOM ASSIGN­Leav1ng Fri Feb 4 call277-6842 ROG ments Vole NO on Feb 8 MENTS DUE TODAY! BOSTONIANS: Your symphony or­
Wh1te Letter Rad1als. Cassette Stereo, Need nde lo Cleveland area Feb. 4-6 W1ll 

chestra takes the stage tomght at 8PMLoaded 9 Months Old Call239-7475 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 SENIORS L1ston 1n stereo to musJc by Beethoven
share usual Call John 277-t 836 Okay Kevrn. so you·re not a GOD FOR 1983-84 VOLUNTEER WORK and Brahms on WSND FM~ 88 9 
won't tell N/AWITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES INI need 2 South Carol•na t1x lor my parents. 

Cop1es of Michelle and R1ta Murphy~s

SEVERAL US CITIES, APPLICATIONS Job Bank Job-open1ng at Computerland DUE FEBRUARY 8TH. CALL MARY rn Mtshawaka. Part·ttme work needed rn Call M1ke 1850 
parents letter to the student body ANN ROEMER, 7949. ava1lable 1n Campus M1n1stry off1ces 
retatl and computer sales. For rnfo call Badm Hall and L1brary 
LOST/FOUND Ridero n-to Eastern Pennsylva­TICKETS 
John Nelson at 256-5688 A YEAR OF SERVICE nia. along route 80 30 m1les lfrom the Jer­Need two non-studenl tiCkets Jo I he Soulh sey border Leave Wednesday n1ght, THERE ONCE WAS A GIRL FROM OUT 
· QST NO CLASS RING WED JAN 12 Feb 2. return Sunday. Call272-8158 Carolina game Feb. 5. W1ll pay$$$ Call HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES ONE COMMUNIST and FASCIST are slartmg HAYES HEALY MENS ROOM Nancy al 7966 YEAR I'OSTGRAD WORK. MANY a war-gam1ng club! Could you wm WWII?
EAST WHOSE BOYFf11EI\D JOHN WAS 
REALLY A BEAST THEY TICKLED AND 

SECOND FLOOR YELLOW GOLD. REWARDS HELPING THOSE WHO F1ndoui'CaiiM1kex1401 orKenx1404' 
BLUE STONE PLEASE CALL BRIAN AT need S.C. 11x call Dan 1612 NEED YOU. DEADLINE FEBRUARY 8. 
Need nders to U. ol I (Champaign) FOUGHT. KISSED AND GOTFeb.11-T3; CALL 6664or43041 PANGBORN RESIDENTS! 

CAUGHT THEY SHOULD HAVE

277-4790 CALL MARY ANN ROEMER, CENTER
.. 

DID YOU GO TO THE KEENAN DAYTON DAYTON DAYTON Need 
FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, 7949. USED THE STOP SIGN AT LEAST' REVUE FRIDAY NIGtiT? DID YOU
LOST: GOLD SEJKO WATCH LEFT IN HELP' I need some 11x. HELP! Not JUSt
Alders lo Dayton tor Feb 4-6 Call Pat al CONVERSE WITH A FREEZING SMC

LOCKER AT THE ROCK any t1x HELP• I need 3 GA's to the So. WANTED RIDE TO PURDUE To Jpmr and IPBh~ 1 sl and 2nd 6th ts con­1694 Carolina B~Ball game HELP! Tom, 288-WEEKEND OF THE 4TH CALL x1256 demned as bemg overcrowded. fr n CHICK IN LINE BEHIND YOU WHILE 
YOUR FRiEND LEr. vou HOLDING
LOST A GOLD CROSS WITH A 8004
NEED 5 G~A. s tor S~Carolma B-Ball MADONNA!! Alias: Suzy Voluptuous• 
THE ROSE AS WELL AS YOUR BIBLE
DIAMOND CHIP ,11127/83) JOB BANK JOB OPENING AT ACRA
game.$$$ Call Mana 284-5t47 Happy 20th! Remember danc1n on the 
AND n1E WALL S~REET JOURNAL?
SENTIMENT· AL VALUE. Darlene 6980 TIRE PRINT SHOP PART-TIME CLERI bar, borrowtng turtlenecks, w1ne and piZ­
I m1ss my parents, and they want to see DID YOu f·ORGH ALL YOUR MOTHER Need r•de to CHICAGO on Fnday, 4 Feb za w1th the dolph1ns. cook1es for Glenn (all CAL WORK AND BASIC LAYOUT 
the S.Carol•na game 11 you can help me TAUGH YOU ABOUT HAT. BOOTSLOST~-gold necklace with 'A" •nllral Cdll Mark at 2103 GRAPHICS. FOR INFO C.O.l.L STEVE over his hand!). sleep1n· ,n scrubs/sweats
get 2 or more tickets, call Dan at x3578 MITTENS, ET' AND WEAR ONLy
charm. 1 probably lost 1t 1n or near the SULENTIC AT 2J3-3t 14. w•tt·~ M&M·s tor hreakfas. front seat achon. 
YOUR NO SCARF 4ND BLUE BLAZER? 
Rock Please call Ann at 1822 

I Need s ride to tl>e central Mich are11 7tspr('lot torC1r U d1amond nng shopp1ng!
N~ed 1 S Carol•na GA c:all6664' ARE YOU fkONC AND APPROXIMATE­
ESCAPE TO MADISONIW;sc. Clull nus
Wt>ekend of Feb. 11·13. Plea,... call We rememb<ir·--·Happy B-day! 
LY !>·10? IF SO WE WOULD LIKE TOchart~r on Feb 11-13 Only $24 Soqt•·up
24345 CON1 u'IUE OUR L1 <TLE CHAT IN A
Thurs. Feb 3. 6-7pm Bac;Bment
NE:ED TIX -STUDENT OR G.a -FOR JULIE PILLEPICH IUiieee ' m1sss you WARMER ATMOSPHERE PLEASEFOR RENT ] ,.-Ma-gg_.._"""__ ___---, 
LaFortune All welcome' 
S.C. GAME SATURDAY KATIE 8050 sooooo! tee hee CAlL MARY AT 54 I 8 SMC OR JUDY AT 55t1 SMC
Alder6 needed to Eastern Pennsylva­H1 Cather~ne! Here s hop1ng you have a 
Need stud S, C tnt tor brnt~l8rs. Call Dar1 ll"'la. JO r:""ules from Jersey border along3-bdrm house, very close to campus. call greal day~ Love. Pat Frerellng -thar:..,.... St.•nuch tor JUSt betng
I fOR SAlE 

Rtot•te MO. ;~ aave Wednesday mght. Febt612
239-6244 or 283-8657 -you -you-re t~ QT9dtest! Love. your
2, return Sunday Call272-8158 FOR SALE t round tnp to anywhere that 
Happy Btrttlrla'l Scany Trateacy! soeur You deserve some candles 1n yo spag­
Piedmont Atrlines fh~s. S.B. N Y.C, Den· Need 2 GA·s or student l:xs to the S Car game W1ll pay b1g bucksll! Call Scott hettloS tomghl' On no. yo IS 19! All of you ArTE"<TION BEACON BOWLERS. 
TWO RQOMS WITH BATH ALL 1HI: WASHINGTON REDSKINS 
UTILITIES PAID MALE PREFFERED ver. Bosmn. D~llas, Flonda and many 
WORLD CHAMPIONS PRIVATE ENTERANCE 2880955 more spots. Call M~rk al 1 725 1265 Pasta thiS Frrday. Jews >Nelcome
NO roadblocks BEWARE' 

------------·-~-·~·--------.-.---------------------------------·----....,j 
The Observer Wednesday, February 2, 1983 -page 9 
Theismann: rhymes with 'rich man' 
Thcn· i..,, in \\·a...hmgton. this pt:rsonality known :l..., 'Tht: (rrcat Communu:ator." 
Jim Murray 

Itt:·-. got thi' cre..,t of hrown hair in wtb. ro...y clH:i:ks. a nice ... milt:. andcngaging manncr. is kind ofoutdoor...y The best of Jim Murrayand extrovcrtl·d and ha' a ...ort oflove-hate relation...hip with the nation·.., L·apital. 
Ik's kind of a puhtiL· monument. lie hold.., pn:...s con· smiled too much to help them. He llnbhed ~t:cond in 
krences from tune to time to answer his critics in the the Heisman voting hut 99th in the draft. hlllr round~ of 1­media. lie 'toP' traffic wherever he goes and everyone players went before they got around to jot:. Hi~ last 
in town has an opinion on him one way or the other. He name might as well have rhvmed with chopped liver. has this kind of identilkation with the legend of ;\/otre Dame and he's theatrical in the extreme. Tht: .\1iami Dolphins. ironically. picked Jot: t1nally. 
Ronald Reagan' Are vou crazy' Who'd he ever hit But only after they had picked a wide receiver named with a ~0-yard homh with :'>0 seconds to play? Did he Otto Stowe and a linebacker named Dale farley to name ever hefuddk thc :'1-linnesota Vikings with a quarterback a couple of their more felicitous choices. 
keeper' Did he ever take Washington to a Super Bowl Joe took the act to Canada, which is not exactly Gipp­championship' Rockne-Four Horsemen country. I mean. Canadian 
No, the Washington monument in question is the Rt. football is not fodder for the Late Show. Dogsled races lion. joe Theismann and if he's not first in peace and get more footage in the States. Canada is oil-Broadway, tlrst in war, he is first, at last, in the NFL. andjoe performed in the dark there for three years. The 
joe Theismann goes through life as if he's running for football equivalent of joining a convent. office. He's gregarious, talkative, breezy, Hubert Joe didn't like the enforced vows of silence, and he 
Vonnie Thompson, a 5-8 two-time all state guard from Saginaw,
Humphrey in cleats. You couldn't send him to funerals next bobbed up at Washington, where George Allen, 
Mich., has verbal~}' committed to play basketballfor Notre Dame 
because he would have a hard time looking sad. the coach, gave up a No. I draft choice for him. Bd(>re 
nextyear. See Sports Briefs for details. 
He's always had a firm grasp of the dr~matic. He's the you suck in your breath, be advised George Allen would only guy in history to change his name to rhyme with give up a No. I draft choice for a pizza. his profession's top award. I mean would Barrymore Still, joe was finally a No. I. But in spite ofthat, Wash­change his name to "Oscar" to win the Academy? Well ington put him to work returning punts, the football joe's name is "Theesman" if you ask his father. But that version of waiting on tables. Joe got to throw I I whole didn't rhyme with "Heisman," as in Trophy. Ergo, joe passes his first year. altered it to "Thy-sman." He didn't get the award-but that's show business. The next year, he threw 22. This might crush fainter 
joe, not a Catholic, pi!=ked Notre Dame for. a school. spirits but joe took it in stride. He opened a restaurant, He liked the neighborhood. Not South Bend; the cul­and wrote a book on the whole story ofquarterbacking. tural neighborhood. The pictures on the wall. George Some people thought joe should write a book on the Gipp, Knute Rockne, The Four Horsemen. The stuff of whole story of how to hold for place-kicks, but Joe al· The Late Show. joe liked that kind ofcompany. The Gip­ways had a flair. He was a guy who showed up at a party per, The Rock, Stuhldreher, Crowley, famine, pes­with holes in his pockets, cardboard in his shoes and tilence -and joe Theismann. A nice part for Ronald toothpicks in his cigar butts, but passed out tips on the 
Ballet, Jazz, )an€ l=onba' s WoRkout 
Reagan. stock market anyway. 
You know all you need to know about joe when you know that he is a quarterback and disc jockey. You all On Sunday, joe quarterbacked his team to victory in know what a disc jockey is. A fellow who talks so much the Super Bowl -at last, the dream of every red­

Contact anGetaabamson 7976 
he doesn't even listen to himself A fellow to whom blooded American boy. Now, he's on prime time more noise is golden. than any star ofstage, screen or radio including the one 

ffittCh W€Rn€R 3184 
joe makes noise.Joe was one ofthe best quarterbacks in the White House. He is as popular as a tax cut. He Notre Dame ever had. But that's like being the best dan­makes his rival quarterbacks in this game look like cer in Bulgaria. Notre Dame is not exactly a quarterback they're civil service employees by comparison. His 
,.,.......,....,..~ ............................................~....,..~· ..............~~..,_... .......~.~........,
school. Theismann was coming after a long line ofthem public utterances are copied down as though they were that included George lzo, john Huarte, Bob Williams, Lincoln's Gettysburg or Washington's Farewell address. Terry Hanratty, Bill Zlock, and other household names. You might say his name finally rhymes with "Heisman." 


~ mardi Gras Talent Show ~ 
Lousy parts for Ronald Reagan. Even if it didn't, it's for sure it rhymes with "rich 
~ \'
The pros thought joe Theismann was_ too small and man." 


In this year·s NHLplayoff format, the top four teams in each d1v1sion make the playoffs, regardless of overall league standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Adams Division 
w L T GF GA Pts. 

Boston 33 10 8 201 134 74 
Montreal 28 14 10 243 184 66 
Buffalo 25 17 9 199 165 59 
Quebec 25 21 6 229 214 56 
Hartford 13 33 6 169 255 32 
Patrick Division 

Ph1iadelph1a 33 13-7 218 149 73 
N Y Islanders 28 17 9 199 156 65 
Wash1ngton 25 16 12 209 184 62 
~ featuring "Par 3" ,, « e ~ 
8

Original 

lFridQy, Feb. 4 in ChQutQuquQ ~€tJ: I 

0RI€ntal aRt Sale 

\ 9pm ~


r(" 't~ 
~ Admission S2 \<C:. · ·. ~ i
Tuesday and Wednesday 

J . \ 
February 1, 2 

~ ComediQnS, Jugglers, music 0-~
t 
LaFortune Lobby 

i ALSO* *encore performQnces ·. . \ 
10 am to5 pm 

Iftom the Keeno.n Revue* * ;l:21 i 
····both 'days-:;::­


New Jersey 11 31 11 145 216 33 Pittsburgh 12 33 7 157 246 31 
i Lowest Prices In Town! ~ 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Division w L T GF 
GA Pts ~ "ow at IRISH GfiRDE"S: ~ 
Edmonton 29 15 10 289 217 68 Calgary 21 25 8 217 227 50 
W1nn1peg 20 25 7 197 217 47 i Flowers and Plants Galore ~ 
Vancouver 17 25 10 187 206 44 
~ .
Los Angeles 16 27 8 183 238 40 Norris Division 
~ Reminder• Valentine's Day ~ 
Ch1cago 32 14 7 225 183 71 Minnesota 26 14 12 217 188 64 
~ Order "ow to guarentee roses ~ 
St LOUIS 16 28 10 187 212 42 DetrOit 12 28 12 160 219 36 Toronto 12 28 10 184 223 34 
\ SAY I • U WITH FLOWERS ~ 
N.Y. Rangers 23 23 7 198 186 53 \......~............,.....................~~...........,...~ ........................,..~..,.. .............................,.........j
r~.s.....,.. ...,...~~·.,......,... .......~...............~.............~............,.....,.......,.............,...l 
Yesterday's Results Quebec 12, Hartford 3 Wash1ngton 5. Detro1t 2 Ch1cago 5. St LoUis 0 N Y Islanders 2. Calgary 2 N Y Rangers 5. Los Angeles 5 Montreal?. Vancouver 3 
Today's Games Minnesota at Buffalo St LoUIS at Detr01t Hartford at Toronto P1ttsburgh at Chicago Ph1iadelph1a at Wmmpeg 
LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! 
Omega Productions, Inc. 
is now opening their Mobile Music Division. We can provide any type of music for any type of event. Parties are our specialty. Custom music programming is available Call 684-8100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 

Lc;!p..!g..l.~!.Q~~!<!..~~!Y_lg!!.~~~!1.!1~.!--J 
SMC ORIENTATION 
Applications are now being accepted for: Assistant Chairman 
Social Chairman Big Sister/Little Sister Off-Campus Chairman Chairman Transfer Chairman 
General Committee 
Workers Ap~lications are available in the Student Activities Office (166 LeMans Hall) 
Deadline for applications··· Wed. Feb. 9, 1983 
Please sign up for an interview when you return your application. 

·----------------------­
~ 


montgomery 
will conduct Interviews on this campus TUESDAY, FEB. 22 & WEDNESDAY, FEB. 23. Career positions 1n vert1cal transportation MARKETING/ MANAGEMENT will be discussed w1th degree candidates in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION. For more Information about Montgomery and our future vis1t to your campus. contact your placement office. 

montgomery 
ELEVATORS ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
Montgomery Elevator Company Moline. lllino's 61265 
Montgomery Elevator Co .. L1m1ted. Toronto. Ont~no M9B3S5 Off1ces in pnncipal c1t1es of North Amenca 
The Observer Wednesday, February 2, 1983-page 10 



Buckeyes, Gophers clash in Big 10 action 
By The Associated Press hot-shooting ofguard Derd. llarpn. who was named Big Tt·n player ot the week. 
Ohio ~tate'' Buckt·yes. still smari­llarper scored 2') points at .\lidli­ing from a harrowing loss to gan and then came had. to score 2'5 "iorthwestern last Saturday that cost at .\lichigan State. tht·m a piece of tirst place in the Big Iowa kept things boiling 111 the Ten haskt·thall race, hope to knock <.:onference with ih 6.~--1H pounding \I innesota out of its share of the of Indiana. The lo~~ not only cost the league lead. lloosier:. sole po,ses~ton of llrst 
The (iophers. ranked I-rh nation­place in the conference race hut also ally, are tied for first with Indiana a ~hot at mo1 ing up as the nation·~ and face the Buckeyes at Columbus No. I team. As a result. the Hoosiers tonight. Ohio State and Indiana are dropped to :'lio. (, while Iowa ad­
the only teams that have not suffen:d vanced from I Hh to 15th. Big Ten defeats at home thb season. Tlu-Hawkeye~ did it hy stopping 
Home teams hold a 22-l-1 edge Indiana scoring a<.-es Ted Kitchel and o1·er the visitor~ and onlr Northwes­Randy Wittman. Kitchel managed tern, ,\lichigan and Wisconsin have only 1.) points and Wittman l 0 hut 
been unable to win a Big Ten road they still remain one-two in the con­game. terence scoring race. Minnesota. 15-3 overall and '5-2 in Kitchel is averaging 22.9 points in the Big Ten, gained a share of the Big Ten play and Wittman is second league lead Saturday with a 63-'5H at 21.0. Eric Turner of Michigan is These are the remains ofthe Los Angeles bome of triumph at Wisconsin while Indiana 
third with a 20.0 average followed Laker star Kareem Abduljabbar. Tbe house was was suffering a 6.)-4H setback at 
by Russell Cross of Purdue at 18.9 
gutted by a fire early Monday morning tbat 
Iowa. and Randy Breuer of Minnesota at Ohio State, meanwhile, appeared IH.6. , to have a 64-63 victory wrapped up
Down considerably 
at Northwestern before Jim Stack unloaded a 30-foot shot at the buzz­

ND'sFord 
er which hit the glass and slammed 
through the hoop to give the Wildcats a 66-64 triumph. 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. (AP) -Od­Castaways, said heavy betting on final total was 4-i points. The victory ended a four-game dsmakers say a last-minute surge of Super Bowl day helped the take at "We didn't take a bath on it, hut it losing streak for the Wildcats who inductees betting on the Washington Redskins his sports book. made the results minimal," he said. had opened the season by winning INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Phil helped, but Sunday's Super Bowl still "We were very pleasantly Bill Dark at the Del Mar sports 1I of their first I 2 games. Buck, one of the state's winningest attracted millions ofdollars less than surprised at the end." he said. '"It book didn't do as well. "In the past. we'd lose a game like high school basketball coaches, was previous years. wasn't quite as good asold times, but "We took a hath," he said. that," said Northwestern coach Rich one offive former coahes or players 
"I'd say it was about SO percent it wasn't bad either." "Everybody came in at the last Falk. who feels his Wildcats have announced yesterday as the latest in­less at our place than last year," said Reizner said most of the betting couple of hours and het us Washing­turned the corner and can play ductees into the Indiana Basketball 
Jackie Gaughan, owner ofEI Cortez. on the final two days was on the ton and over -~7." against anyone in their league. Hall ofFame. "We didn't have much business at Redskins, to whom bookies were At the Stardust Hotel's sports The loss dropped Ohio State into a Buck, the Anderson Madison all." giving three points on the spread. book, one of the biggest in town, the four-way tie for third place behind Heights coach since 1967, was 
Gaughan said that although his "At the end, most of the people mood was upbeat. Indiana and Minnesota. Ohio State, selected along with John Ford, Lou sports book won about $1 5.000 on did like the Redskins, but there was a "It was a tad less than last year, hut Illinois, Iowa and Purdue are all Watson, Bob King and the late Karl the Super Bowl, it would have been lot ofactivity on both sides," he said. we did a lot of business on the locked together with 4-.) records Dickerson. much more if the action had been Most oddsmakers had the over­game," said assistant hook manager while Northwestern is a step behind The five men. along with six heavier. under line at either 56 or :P points Red Sperberg. "We would up on the at 3--1. others announced earlier, will he in­
"We bear the game, but we just around Las Vegas. meaning gamblers plus side." Three games are scheduled ducted at the annual Hall of Fame didn't have the handle to win big," could het whether the total score of Sperherg credited a heavy last­tomorrow night with Wisconsin at dinner March 24 in the lndana Con­he said. "It was a tough way to end the game would go over or under minute surge with putting the Star­Indiana, Iowa at Illinois and vention Center. 


Super Bowl betting not so ''super'' ~among Hall 

the season.'" that figure. Most. Reizner said. took Sonny Rt:izner, oddsmaker at the the over and won easily when the 
Mama 


Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
If vou think ltakUJ h1od is just spaghetti :md pizza. w~·w got a mouth-opl·ning experienct· waiting ti1r 1·ou erer. \kdneslbl" night tfom 'i:IHI IO:W p.m. at "11w lwking <;l:L~s l{~·staur:UJt in the South Bend \\arriott. 
~1troduLing \\:Ultl \\arriott·s -a /Juu11 gustu <UTa\" of :mtip:L'-;t:t. minestrone. t(·ttucim·. cacl"iatorl'. I:L~agne. p:l~ta :UJd ti 1t1r saLJL"es. chet'St'. hrealb :md dt·sSt.·rt:-;. 
It"s aJI serwd up iii a btilt' ltali:u1 atmospht·n· -­dwckl'rt'd tahledoths. a strolling musici:m ­till' works 
AJI mu r:UJ eat ti1r Sb ll~. Childr('f! undl"r l~ --S\ l):; 
FREE CHIANTI 
just prl'sent this ad to mur llaitt•r ami we II gilT 1ou a fn·l' bottle of Chianti tnenjnl" wJtli l"tlur llll'al :llld kl'ep the l~1ttll' :L~ :1 StiUI"l'llir 
Offer valid th;ough February 23, 1983. One coupon per table 
.4 m·l!dem-' 

South Rt·nd/;\\orriott Hotel. 12~ ~-St. Joseph St.. South Bend (219) 2~4-2000 
dust close to what it did in previous Northwestern at Purdue. Ford led Indianapolis Cathedral to 
years. 

PC-1500 POCKET COMPUTER 160 CE-150 Color pnnter wl cassette mtertace 165 CE-155 BK Memory 105 CE-159 BK Memory wl battery backup 125 CE-158 RS-232 175 PC-1211 POCKET COMPUTER 65 CE-122 16 dig1! pnnler wl cassette 1ntertace 45 PC-1250 Handheld Computer !New) 80 
C~1~ ~ 
HP-10C Scientific (New) . . . . . . . . . . $54 HP-11C Scientific . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 HP-15C Scientific (New). . . 92 HP-12C Financial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92 HP-16C Programmer (New) 92 
HP-41C .... 1149 HP-41CV. . . 209 Opticel Wend . . 95 Card Ruder. .149 Printer (B2143AJ. . . . 283 
Memory Exp.~na1on Modules (HP41] 
Qued Mod. Ext. Funct. Mod. Ext. Mom. Mod. 


Illinois was the only team to win the Catholic state champion~hip in twice last week and the Illini did it the early 19:~Os. He went to Notre the hard way with victories at Michi­Dame, captained the Irish team and gan and Michigan State behind the later was freshman coach there. 
• • • LaSalle 
for LaSalle this season. hut his pas­
con/inuedfrom page 12 
sing ability and defensive skills have 
The team's assist leader at tilUr a made him a valuable asset. game, Tiano has been pitching in al­Another valuable commodity on most three points a game as a quar­this LaSalle team. especially in 
terback for Enin's team. Black's absence. is forward Ralph 
Also seeing time at guard for the Lewis. The 6-S sophomore is averag­Explorers is (;ary Jones. The 6-2 ing I-1 points and nine rebounds a freshman is second in assists for game. LaSalle. Averaging just two points a Also returning to the front line ti.>r game, Jones has started ten games the Explorers is Butts. The 6-9 soph­

omore is averaging 12 points and ten rebounds a game. The team leader in
:!BASKETBALL 
minutes played, Butts is lhe type of unselfish ballplayer that would NBA hendit any team.
Eastern Conference Atlantic Division Holding down the pivot spot tor w L Pet. GB 
LaSalle is the ~-1 Piotrowski. The 
Ph1ladelph1a 39 6 867 Boston 35 10 778 4 2-10-pound senior is the Explorers·
4 

New Jersey 29 17 630 10 5 lone player with a wealth of ex­
Washmgton 20 24 455 18 5 
perience. Averaging ten points and
New York 18 2; 400 21 Central Division five rebounds a game. Piotrowski ac­Milwaukee 31 16 660 
counts for nearlv 60 percent of the
Detro1t 23 23 500 7 5 Atlanta 22 23 489 8 playing time f(>r the Explorers seven Ch>cago 16 31 340 t5 
upperclassmen.
Indiana 14 30 318 15 5 Cleveland 9 36 200 21 With his current ~quad suffering 
Western Conference 

the growing pain" that LaSalle faced 
Midwest Division 

w L Pet. GB last season. Phelps can onlv wait for 
San Anton1o "29 18 617 his voung unit to gel. KansasC>ty 23 22 511 
"We're pla1·ing well enough to
21 23 477 65 Denver 22 25 468 win eH-ry tinK out now. hut we're 18 29 383 t1 
Dallas 
Ulah not doing the things v. e nenl to get
8 37 178 20 Pacific Division done in pressure situations in the Los Angeles 34 9 791 
Houston 
last few minutes." says Phelps.
27 19 587 65Portland 

"When we're down or the score is
Phoenix 27 20 580 9 Seattle 25 20 556 10 til'd. we've got to hit the free throws Golden State 19 26 422 16 
or get the key rebounds. We've got
14 32 304 21 5 Yesterday's Results to be the team thal makes the big New Jersey 120. lnd1ana 111 
San D>ego 
play when it counts. and that's some­
Atlanta 93. Cleveland 84 Ch1cago 129. Houston 76 thing we're still growing into as a Philadelphia 133. Denver 124 
team." 
M>lwaukee 115. Portland 99 


lhe~crer======================================= 



~~4()l~~===========================W=e=d=n=e=s=d=ay='=F=e=b=ru=a=ry==2='=1=9=8=3===p=a=g=e=l=l 


Bloom County 
MAVP£ I SHOU~I'T HAV€ RWUE:5TI>D /HIS 

ADV£RT151N0 FOR A TRANSFER 10/HE;; 
MATE IN1HHLA55!Fif'.D5... &AC.ON'!I Nf.W 
PRETTY Wt;IRD 5T1.1FF 
IFYOVASK ME:.

-·~R50NAl-S" 
= o HI 



Simon 
...YMII... S/?!3 /fE!?E THI/T 't(XI't7E J/, 13tiT IT lfl50 5HY5 TIII/T 
Ytxl~ .Y/1/IfE 15 CYNTI/111 Hl//1/lfEtf:,T/fND. 
\ 


Asprin Man 
I TUOUGHT I'D 
WORI( WID£RCOVER 
roDAY, SO I '1'1 DIUSSCD AS THE J..ONE ASPIRIN.
(J) •I , ' 
0 ! 
0 



The Daily Crossword 
::--~;---,..,---r:-,---,
12 
-:-:--+-~f----+--1 --+-~f----+--1 -:-:--+-~f--+-._-+~ 
'"""""+-f--l 25 Murderer 28 Mean --+-.....,f----1 dwellings 

©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Why You Should Go to Florida with the Student Union! 
Reason no. 1 

THE PLAZA 
* Accomodations in the most demanded hotel during Spring Break 
*Located right in the middle of the Strip, and on the ocean 
Berke Breathed 

JUST !MAGIN£'. 
WHAT KIND OF NUT 
11-115 SORT OF 1HIN0 
lnTRACl:J .•. 



Jeb Cashin 
WEU I i?ECKOJI
£/L /J/1... I 

lf!fiT'5 1/lt !?!GifT
Wf(E rr IXJfs . 

YOt) GO 01>/ IN
r>HE /') J!.J !tND 

fiNlJ lffiVE Rid/
I liM H£1i ()f./)£~ 
'MOTf/ER 
\ 
ACROSS 1 Piquancy 5 Make neater 9 Common 
complaint 13 Case 14 Term in 
math 16 Mother of Zeus 17 Absolute 
musts 20 Application 21 Bitter: Fr. 22-Crown 23 Love god 24 Black-and· 
white birds 
*King size swimming pool 
*Color television, air conditioning, and 24 hour direct dial telephone 

GEE
71iifi.!Ks-' 
1 
David). Adams 

~----~··· =i 


: T.V. Tonight 

_&nior Bar 
\.)~ Drnft Beer Specinls 
evety Wednesday nite 
Pitchers on SpeciQI too 
Campus 
•1 
:30 p.m. -Art lecture, "Current Directions and Developments in Holography," Rosemary Jackson, Moreau Gallery •--1:20 p.m.-Physics Colloquium, "The Physics of Light-emiuing Diodes. Schouky Barriers and Metastable Semiconductor Alloys," Dr. John D. Dow, 118 NSH •--1:.~0 p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "Structure and Regulation ofPotassium Transport System inE. coli," Dr. Wolfgang Epstein. Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium •--!:30 p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "Inverse Spectral Theory and Hyperdliptic Jacobians," Prof. Emma Previato, 226 CCMB 

•5 
p.m. -WHC Faster's Mass, Lewis Hall Chapel 

• 
.., p.m. -Swimming, NO Men vs. Albion, Rockne Memorial ..., p.m. -Film Series, "1, Claudius," CCE, ETS Theater, Sponsored by Department of Modern and Classical Languages, Free 

•7:30 
p.m.-Pax Christi General Meeting, Cen· ter for Social Concerns Lounge 

•':30 
p.m. -Religious leaders Program lecture, Fr. Vincent Donovan, Library Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Men vs. LaSalle, ACC 

•8: 
1 5 p.m. -lecture, "John Paul ll's Encyclical on Work. Laborem Exercetzs." Fr. Edward O'Connor <..:.S.C., II 5 O'~haughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Thomas More Society 

•9 
p.m. -Co-ree Soccer, Angela Athletic Facility,SMC 


7p.m. 16 M-A·S·H 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
7:30p.m. 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
8p.m. 16 Shogun 22 CBS Special: "The Scarlet and the 
Black" 28 Tales of the Gold Monkey 34 Great Performance~ 
9p.m. 28 The Fall Guy 10p.m. 16 Quincy 28 Dvnasty 
The Far Side 
up here in a cloud bank?" 
32 Burrows 33 Be frugal 
with 34 Doily 35 Amos of 
baseball 36 Rackety 37 Servant of 
a kind 38 Operated 39 Cook's 
creation 40 Beer 41 "-That 
Roared" 43 Stony 
chamber 44 Seaweed 45 Helper 46 Smoking 
device 49 Record 50 Toper 53 Musts 56 Olwings 57 Sing in 

the Tyrol 58 Beverage in cans 59 Actress 
Diana 60 Proboscis 61 Spouted 
pitcher 
DOWN 1 Asian ox 2 Greek 
letters 3 Destined 4 Four·in· 
hand 5 Seism 6 Hare or 
tortoise, 
e.g. 7 Roman road 8 Wrong: pre!. 9 Talented 
one 10 Fragment 11 Crusty 
slice 12 Naturalness 15 Doorkeeper 18 Titles 19 Peace 
goddess 23 Certain votes 
24 Stage 25 Abbreviated 26 Indian 
water vessel 27 Dress 
shape 28 Season 29 Simulacrum 30 Keen 31 Boat part 33 "The March 
King" 36 Misbehaving 37 Cover with 
tar 39 Kind of 
goose 40 Fastener 42 Creators 43 Term in 
chess 
45 "-togo before I sleep" 
46 Chief 47 European 
capital 48 Eskers 49 Pedestal 
part 50 TV inter· terence 51 Be flirta· 
tious 52 Ruler 54 Charged 
particle 55 Sherbet 
Wednesday, February 2, 1983 -page 12

S~orts 

Redskins ownerjack Kent Cooke upon bis team's arrival at Dulles Airport Monday nigbt. Unfortunate()' for Reagan,joe Tbeismann is now the talk of the town in Washington. See jim Murray's column on page nine.(AP Photo) 
Irish play host to Explorers tonight 
By RICH O'CONNOR Ten of LaSalle's games have been Spurts Writer decided by less than three points, and the worst los~ was by only eight 
Can you say inconsistency? I knew points at the hands ofTexas A&:\1. 
you could. "You have to respect what (Dave) La..'ialle College will be Notre 'Lefty' Ervin has done with that team Dame's opponent tonight in the when you see them take Villanova to ACC. Tip-off is slated for H p.m. the buzzer without Black," says 
Losing two-point games to New Phelps. "He's a tough player to lose, 
Jersey's Rider College, Digger but obviously their other people an: Phelps' alma mater, and a one­coming on for them." pointer to Canisius in the past week, The Explorers play a deliberate 
the Explorers seem to be having brand of basketball; patience is the problems playing without the key. They work the ball around until services ofSteve Black. 
they have a good shot. and thev hit The 6-3 guard, LaSalle's leading 
the boards. In typical eas~ern· scorer and, the leading freshman 
basketball fashion, LaSalle never scorer in Division 1 last year, has gives up. been sidelined since Jan. 3 with a Although Notre Dame holds a 9-2 stress fracture in his right foot. 
series lead over the Explorer~. the Since Black's injury, the Explorers 
last three games have been decided are 3-4, losing one-point games with 
by a total of ten points -with Duke and Villanova at home while 
LaSalle Wlnning the two games deti::ating Towson State by one, Du­
played in the Palestra in Philadd· quesne by six and Hofstra by 16. phia, and the Irish taking a one-point But the record could be very dif­decision at the ACC two season~ ago. ferent. In last year's contest, the Ex­plorers' tenacious defense held Irish 
all-America guard John Paxson to an uncharacteristic 2-of I 1 shooting performance, and a total of five points as Notre Dame lost 66-61. Black led all scorers in that game 
After weekend victory 

Track team anticipates Midwest Cities meet 
wi1:h 20, but Albert (Truck) Butts, By DEAN SULLIVAN and Loyola ( 6 ). Adams came in a close second. Notre Dame took first place in Tom Piotrowski and Dallas Philson Sports Writer Led by a host of first -place finis­Notre Dame continued its four out of the tlve field events, the each scored I I. 
hers, the Irish put on an exciting dominance in the distance races, triple jump being the elusive event. With four Marters back from last 
In a six-team track meet held at show for the small crowd of track taking the I 000-yard run and the James Patterson, who competes in year's I6-I3 squad, LaSalle looked to the ACC last Friday, the Notre Dame enthusiasts. In all, 13 blue ribbons one and two mile runs. five different events, won the long be a greatly improved team, but in­track team easily outdistanced the (out of 16 events) went to Notre SophmoresJim Tyler ( 2: I2.7) and jump with a leap of22-II. Freshman juries have hurt them. Besides competition and won the contest Dame. Bill Courtney beat the tleld in the Todd Lezon put the shot 50-10 to Black's stress fracture, freshman with a total of 130.5 points. In I000 yard run and the Irish swept take first place, with teammate Frank sensation Chip Greenberg also suf­second place was DePaul with 41.5 Senior Mark Wozniak started the the mile with Sophomore Tim Can­Rielly coming in third. John Langdon fered a leg fracture earlier in the 
-points, followed by Bradley ( 38), ball rolling, capturing the three-mile non ( 4:15.2) and Juniors Andy Dil­cleared the bar at 13-6 to win the season. Valparaiso ( 26 ). Northwestern ( I2 ), run in 14:24.6. Sophomore John lon and Ralph Caron finishing pole vault. Sophmore Chuck Con­The 6-4 guard has only recently one-two-three, respectively. Junior stablt: Fosbury-tlopped his way to returned to the Explorer lineup EdJuba posted a 9:09 in the two mile the high jump title with a jump of where he picked up right where he to take first place easily in that event 6-8. left off. One of Pennsylvania's most Senior Co-captain Steve Dziabis won With a few exceptions, one being heavily recruited high school

Ball State women 
the 880-yard dash in 1:56.2. DePaul's James Birgens (who won seniors laM year, Greenberg is John McCloughan ran in Renaldo the 300-yard dash and bested Allen av,rraging Il.3 points and three as­Nehemiah-fashion and had relatively Pinkett by one-tenth of a second in sists a game.

swim past Irish 
no problem with the competition in the 60-yard dash), the best athletes Filling in for Black at the other By THERON ROBERTS in the 400-yard individual medley the 60-yard high hurdles. In the 440-on the track were the Irish as the guard spot is Philson. The 5-1 1 soph­with a time of 4:52.20. yard dash split end turned sprinter score indicates. omore is averaging eight points and
Sports IVrlter 
Top Irish diver Mary Amico set a Van Pearcy broke the tape first with The Irish face a tough test this three rebounds a game. Sharing time Despite breaking seven varsity new mark in the one-meter diving a time of ·t9.2. Teammate Jan Kania Friday in their first-ever Midwestern with Philson is 6-_>, sophomore Pete records, the Notre Dame women with a 183.05 point total. The final came in third place. John McNelis City Conference meet, which will be Tiano. swimmers again lacked the depth record went to Gam boa, topping her won his heat and the race in the 600-held at 7:30 p.m. in the north dome 
see LASALLE, page 10 needed for a victory, as the Irish fell own record in the 50-yard fly with a yard run. of the ACC. to Ball State, 83-66, last night at the :27.76 time. Rockne pool. Cochiolo led the Irish finishers
... 
A "special" team
Two relay records were broken. with two individual firsts, winning Raili Tikka, Venette Cochiolo,"Gina the SO· and 200-yard breaststroke. Gamboa and Karen Korowicki won Korowicki notched a victory in the the 400-yard medley relay in a I00-yard free and ended in second 
SMCswimmers to enteJf4 nationals 
record time of 4:I6.22. Julie Boss place in the 200-yard free. 
ByJUDY MCNAMARA into improving times and swimming Christmas l)reak and worked out
and Jean Murtagh joined Gamboa Sheila Roesler turned in a superb Sports Writer faster. That's not our team goal. with over 100 other collegiate
and Korowicki for a win in the 400-performance for Notre Dame. She "We have to walk a fine line where teams in order to stay in shapeyard free relay with a new mark of was victorious in the 200-yard but­
Something very special at Saint we are dedicated enough to im­during the long layoff. 
Mary's goes on every ·afternoon in prove but not interfere with "\X'e were the only team out of all the swimming pool behind Regina acedemics/' the others down there who didn't hall's south lounge. The women's swim team seems to cancel practice because ofthe cold," 
A women's swim team works out have found the right formula for Trees said. "The water temperature in the dimly lit, cramped pool there. success in both areas. Despite their was 58 degrees but we still ran a full This team qualifies as being special ahbreviatt;.d dual meet schedule, workout. It was really awesome the because, for the tlrst time in many Saint Mary's has qualified 14 of its amount of work they did." years, Saint Mary's is sporting a team swimmers for the national swim Saint Mary's main incentive that has overcome the problem that championships and will mo~t likely during its Florida workouts was its plagues the sports departments of qualify the remaining team mem· meet with Notre Dame shortly after many academic-oriented institu­bers at the state swim champion­re·turning from break. The Belle~ tions like Saint Mary's. The problem: ships on Feb. 10 and 1 I. In the past, were defeated by Notre Dame, but How much schooling should one Saint Mary's has sent one or two not by the usual wide margin that forgo in favor ofgreater success ath­swimmers to nationals, but never an has separated the two teams in the letically? entire team. past. 
An equilibrium has been found by Much of the team's success can be "The ND meet was an upswing for 
the swim team at Saint Mary's. The attributed to the special unity that is us because the meet was fairly close 1982-83 squad, for the the first time present between its members. and went really well," agreed senior in it's history, has qualified over 80 "Going to Ft. Lauderdale really Lucy Hanahan. percent of its members for the Na­helped a lot, we're like a family What lies ahead in the next few tional Assosiation for Intercollegiate now," commented sophormore El­weeks for the Saint Mary's swim· Athletics national meet, as well as len Byrne. mers? "Just workouts and one more 
maintaining a team policy ofallowed A comment from junior freestyler dual meet against Kalamazoo Col­absences for all team members Rosey Whalen reflects another team lege which I really think we'll win," whenever their school work con­attitude: "Our goal is for the whole said Trees. "We're working right flicts with workouts. team to qualify for nationals, not just through the state meet since most of "It's hard to explain our team to a certain individuals. This is the first our girls have already qualified for outsider," commented Belles coach team I've heard about at Saint Mary's nationals and plan to use the meet as Scott Trees. "I don't coach with the that has been so close." a learning experience and hopefully idea that everything should be put The team traveled to Florida over have a little fun." 
3:49.3. 
On the individual side, Tikka es­tablished two team bests. She set the record in the 50-yard bac t kstroke in 
:30.71 and in the 200-yard back­stroke with a time of 2:27.98, al­though she did not win either event. Cochiolo broke the varsity standard terfly and finished second in the 500-and 1000-yard free events, en­ding a grueling meet for the senior co-captain. 
The loss drops the Irish to 4-5. The next meet for the women swim­mers is Friday, Feb. 4, when the Irish host DePauw. 

Pitt upsets St. John's, 72-71 
PITISBURGH (AP) -Billy Goodwin hit a layup just before 
Culbertson sank six foul shots in the final buzzer to cut the Pan­the final two minutes as Pitts· thers' final margin to one point. burgh, led by 24 points each from St. John's, 18-2, lost for the 
Clyde Vaughan and Andre Wil­second time in nine Big East liams, stunned fifth-ranked St. games as the Panthers pulled off John's 72-71 last night in a Big their first major upset since East Conference basketball game. joining the conference this 
season. 

Culbertson, a junior guard, St. John's, which got 20 points clinched the victory by sinking from Chris Mullin, built an early the front end of a one-and-one 15-7 lead, but the Panthers with seven seconds to go to lift charged back late in the first half the Panthers to a 72-69 lead over to score seven straight points and the Redmen. St. John's Billy take a 30-25 advantage. 





