.. 
• • • WSND-page3 

VOL. XVII, NO. 117 the inucpcndt:nt ~tudent new~paper ~crYing notre Jame and ~aint mary's WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 1983 
Artificial heart recipient 
Clark's kidneys 'shut down' 
SALT LAKE CITY ( AP) -Artificial heart recipient Barney Clark's kid­neys were "shutting down" late yes­terday, and while doctors said death was not imminent, they were 
anxiously trying to find out why the organs were failing. 
"His death is not imminent. If the problems persist, however, they have the potential of being very serious," University of Utah Medical Center spokesman John Dwan said ofthe 62-year-old Clark. 
"The mood's pessimistic. They're concerned. They're working 'very hard and they've called in many con­sultants," Dwan said. 
Dwan said doctors were consider­
ing changing Clark's condition from 
fair to serious and moving him back 
to intensive care, bur hesitated late 
yesterday partly because they didn't 
want to deal the patient an unneces­
sary psychological setback. 
"His kidneys are shutting down. 
They have not shut down complete­
ly, but they are not doing very well," 
Dwan said late yesterday. 
i-le said doctors would decide ear­
ly ~oday whether to move Clark to 
intensive care. 
"They will be deciding whether 
the negative trend is continuing and whether to downgrade his condi­tion, or leave it the same; move him back to ICU or leave him where he is," he said. 
Clark's latest kidney problem began Saturday and doctors have run sever-al tests to determine why. 
Dwan said doctors, in discussing Clark's kidneys, believe "the pos­sibilities vary from simple blockage to terminal kidney failure." 
Dwan said Clark's temperature 
had fluctuated, but had gone as high 
as 102 degrees. There were no im­
mediate plans to place Clark on 
dialysis, he said, "but he continue to 
deteriorate." 
Clark wa still listed in fair condi­tion and in a private room at the hospital yesterday, his 11 1th day with the plastic, air-driven heart. 
Clark's wife, Una Loy, saw her hus­band yesterday morning, Dwan said. "She's depressed, not feeling well," because of her husband's condition, he said. 
Dwan said doctors had a long dis­cussion yesterday on whether to change Clark's condition. He said Dr. Lyle Joyce, one ofClark's attend­ing physicians, decided to wait until today to see whether that would be 
necessary. 

"Dr. Joyce said, 'We've been in 
tight spots before and we've got him 
out of them. It's a tight one,"' Dwan 
said. 
Dwan said Clark began develop­
ing a fever during the weekend and 
that his kidney function began to 
deteriorate. Doctors ran tests Mon­
day, but results yesterday gave no in­
dication ofthe source ofthe fever or 
kidney problems. 
Dwan said doctors "are almost certain he has an infection," and have ordered another extensive round of tests. 
In a prepared statement released at midday, Dwan said Clark's condi­tion had not improved in the pre­vious 24 hours. 
Dwan's statement said there were "many possible causes" for the infec­tion and reduced kidney function, all ofwhich were being investigated by Clark's doctors. "But in the meantime, any speculation is premature," he said. 
Clark has experi t enced an inter­mittent fever for the past two weeks, hospital and family sources said. Since March 3, he has been battling aspiration pneumonia, but docors had said they were pleased with his progress against that illness. 
In Wisconsin 
Babies live in spite of abortions 
MADISON, Wis. (AP)-The live not declining. ofPlanned Parenthood Inc., said that 
births of six babies whose mothers However, Dr. David Grimes, chief in 1980 -the last year for which 
had abortions at Madison hospitals ofabortion surveillance for the Cen­complete figures are available -1.6 
in the past 10 months have shocked ters for Disease Control in Atlanta, million abortions were done 
residents, become a rallying ·point cited a CDC study that found 400 to nationwide, about 10 percent of 
for abortion foes and prompted one 500 live births following abortions them in the second trimester. A total 
hospital to drastically curtail the annually in the mid-1970s. of 12,860 abortions were done after 
procedure. Since then, Grimes said, the num­the 21st week of pregnancy, the in­
All six babies died within 27 hours ber of such births has "diminished stitute said. of birth, four at Madison General considerablt' as more women seek Since the last live abortion birth Hospital and two at the University of abortions earlier in pregnancy. He here in late February, Madison Wisconsin Hospital. The reasons declined to estimate the number of General has barred all abortions af­they were born alive remains un­such births now occurring. ter 18 weeks' gestation unless the clear, as does the question of how The Alan Guttmacher Institute in often such live births occur after New York, the former research arm 
See BABIES, page 4 abortions. All six pregnancies were in the second trimester -the second three months ofdevelopment in the womb -a point when few infants 

Senator Leahy to.keynote nuclear conference 
have survived delivery brought on 
by natural causes. 
After two births from abortions in By TOM MOWLE points. He added that "nuclear 100 Catholic colleges, Newman and Notre Dame students will be 
as riiany t days at UW Hospital last StaffReporter weapons are a grass-roots issue," and Clubs on state campuses, and peace allowed to attend the workshops. 
May, Dr. Ben Peckham, chief of the conference will "encourage colleges in Indiana, Illinois, Iowa,. The reason for this, Weissert ex­
obstetrics and gynecology, said such Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy people to speak." Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, and Wis­plained, is to "prevent the con­
an occurrence was "very uncom­of Vermont will be the keynote Reg Weissert, conference coor­consin. She expects about 200 stu­ference from being overrun by our 
mon" and that he had seen only two speaker at a regional conference on dinator, sent invitations to about dents from 25 schools to attend. students" and to preserve its 
such births "in thousands of cases" nuclear issues at 8 p.m. Friday in the Leahy is a member of the regional character. There is a five 
over the past decade. Library Auditorium. Committee for Agriculture, Nutri­dollar registration fee for the 
"It's not a one-in-a-miliion fluke, The conference, "Justice in a tion, and forestry; the Appropria­workshops; registration is in the but a risk of the procedure," coun­Nuclear Future?" will offer . 14 tions Committee; the Judicial Center for Social Concerns from 8:5­ters Timothy Warner, a spokesman workshops on Saturday which will Committee; and the Select Commit­daily. for Madison General, where four cover issues related to nuclear arms. tee on Intelligence. He also is a Weissert said the idea for the con­babies were born alive during 20 Strategies for disarmament and ference was conceived last year by second-trimester abortions since formation of a network of Catholic students in the "Unseen City" class 
Leahy is "a rising
May. "I wish it were a one-in-a­university and college students will which follows the Urban Plunge million complication, but .. .it is be discussed at the workshop. spokesman on nuclear program. The students decided to not." Student contact Michael O'Brien weapons" and can "speak make the conference a regional Other experts say live births are said Leahy was chosen to speak be­event, rather than a national one, be­
on the Catholic
rare after abortions, but disagree on cause he is "a rising spokesman on cause of the time and distance in­how often they follow pregnancies nuclear weapons," has "a reputation position." volved for students from outside this terminated in the United States each for defending First Amendment area. year. rights," and because he is a Catholic member of the Commission on The conference is being co­
Dr. Christopher Tietze, a consult­and can "speak on the Catholic posi­Security.and Cooperation in Europe sponsored by· the Center for Social ant with the Population Council, a tion" regarding nuclear issues. which monitors the 1975 Helsinki Concerns, Campus Ministry, CILA, New York-based research group, The purpose of the conference, Accords on Human Rights. His Howard Hall, Pasquerilla West, Pax 
said that according to a 1976 study, O'Brien said, is "educational -to speech will be followed by a Christi, the Sociology Department, 
about 200 live births follow abor­get together with Catholic and question-and-answer period. and the Student Union. Other 
tions in the United States each year. Christian students to discuss the While Leahy's speech will be open groups, Weissert said, still may 
He said the figure is still valid, and is issue and summarize our view-to the public, only 50 Saint Mary's become co-sponsors. 



Hy The Obsert,er and The Associated Press 
nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. He is known internationally as a spokesman for social justice and a charismatic advocate for human rights. The film is an intimate biography and a graphic presentation ofDom Helder's compassionate concern for the poor and oppressed ofthe world. Interested members ofthe Notre Dame community are invited to view this t11m which is being presented. free ofcharge. by the Howard Hall Religious Commission. -The Observer 
John J. Kozak. professor of chemistry, has been ap· pointed assistant dean ofthe College ofScience for a three-year term effectiveJuly 1. Kozak succeeds Daniel.H. Winicur, associate profes­sor of chemistry and assistant dean since 1979,'who was recently appointed registrar. Kozak joined the Notre Dame faculty in 968 and was promoted to full professor in 1978. He received his Ph.D. from Princeton University in 1965, and from 1965-67 Kozak studied un­der Nobel prize winner Ilya Prigogine at the Univers t ity of Brussels before completing an additional year ofpostdoctoral research at the University ofChicago. Atheoretical chemist, Kozak will continue his research on cooperative phenomena in chemistry and physics. 
The Observer 

Notre Dame professor of philosophy 
Cornelius Delaney has been elected president ofthe American Cath­olic Philosophical Asociation. Delaney, who joined Notre Dame's faculty in 1967, was chairman ofthe Department ofPhilosophy from 1972 to 1982. Author ofseveral books and articles on the history of American philosophy, epistomology and political philosophy, he serves on the executive committee of the American Philosophical Association. Delaney will give the presidential address at the As­sociation's 1985 national meeting. -The Observer 
The chairman of the philosophy depart­
ment at Hebrew University in Jerusalem, Father Marcel Dubois, will give three public lectures on the relationsip between Judaism and Christianity this month at Notre Dame. The lectures, "A Theological Perspective on Judea-Christian Relations Today," "The Spirituality ofJudaism," and "The Meaning ofJerusalem for Christians," will take place today, March 28 and March 30 at 8 p.m. in the University's Galvin Life Science Center auditorium. Father Dubois, who was born in Tourcoing, France, has been a member of the Dominican Order since 1938. Ordained a priest in 1946, he studied philosophy and theology at the Dominican Faculties of Le Saulchoir in Paris, at Har­vard and at the Pontifical University ofSt. Thomas Aquinas in Rome. 
Father Dubois' lecture series, the second ofseveral being planned by Notre Dame's Department ofTheology, is supported by the Crown­Minow Endowment for Jewish Studeis at the University. -The Ob­server 
The eighth annual Alumnae Phone-a-thon at St. Mary's generated pledges. totaling 566,000 during its recent four­night session. Volunteers, including students, faculty, administrators and local alumnae, contacted 2,650 alumnae, and 1,589 promised contributions. The average pledge was $41.54. That figure helped the Phone-a-thon surpass its 550,000 goal by 32 percent. The monies received will be used to offset the operating costs of the College. "We are very happy with the results of the Phone-a-thon," said Thomas M. Becker, director of development at Saint Mary's. "We raised 31 percent more money than we did last year, and we surpassed our goal by almost the same figure. I think the results tell us that our alumnae believe in what Saint Mary's College does. They 
are proud to support such a fine tradition."-The Observer 
The Justice and Peace Center will observe 
the third anniversary ofthe death ofArchbishop Oscar Romero ofEl Salvador tomorrow. The public is invited to participate in a prayer vigil for justice in El Salvador at the Federal Building in downtown South Bendt at noon. Also, a liturgy will be celebrated at 5 p.m. at the Moreau Seminary Chapel commemorating Bishop Romero. Pope John Paul II during his recent trip to El Salvador asked that Romero be respected as the "zealous and venerated pastor" who "sought to end the violence and re-establish peace."-The Observer 
Two people were killed and three others were 
injured when a South Shore Line commuter train slammed into a van at a Gary, Ind. crossing, police said yesterday. Their deaths raised the state's traffic death toll for the year to 184 compared with 127 on March 22, 1982. The accident occurred in the Miller section ofGary about 9:30p.m. (CST) Monday. The train was en route from South Bend to Chicago. Killed were Ronnie Steele, 28, the driver ofthe van, and a passenger, Joanne Ledbetter, 20, both of Gary. Three passen­gers in the van were admitted to Gary Methodist Hospital in critical · condition. They were Annett Irvine, 22; Cedric Hatcher, 18; and). Carol Ledbetter, 20, all ofGary. A passerby rescued the three before the van burst into flames. Delays were reported on the commuter line yesterday morning as crews worked to clear the debris from the accident scene, a crossing about three miles east ofdowntown Gary. Witnesses said the van was behind some cars at a closed crossing gate when the driver swerved the van around the cars and began to cross the tracks. -AP 
Sunnyand cold todaywith the high around 30. Clear and very cold again tonight with the low ranging from 10 to 18. Partly sunny and cold tommorrow with the high in the low 30s. ­
AP 
.. 

Although the six inches of white fluffy stuff outside may have pushed the thought of spring to the back of everyone's mind, it's never too early to start planning. 
Margaret Fosmoe 

Before you know it, the recent snowfall will have 
Managing Editor 

. melted into a memorable mucky midwestern swamp. And after that is spring. 

Inside Wednesday 

Accompanying the arrival of the season, ofcourse, is the traditional notion ofspring cleaning. And there are a number ofthings around here that could easily stand to be cleaned, changed, fixed or improved. They include on campus. It is senseless, therefore, for these movies to the following: be shown in one of the campus' worst facilities. The 
• Now that the old Fieldhouse is really going (slowly, Engineering Auditorium is in need of serious renova­but surely) the University can move ahead with plans tion if it is to continue to be the site ofcampus movies. for that area. Contrary to rumor, the area is not going to The seats, perhaps annoying during a 50 minute class, be paved over for a parking lot. Already it can be seen are plain uncomfortable during a two hour movie. that the vacancy will create a pleasant opening in a Seating restrictions, often lax, are sometimes virtually previously cluttered part of campus. The space should ignored. The 50-odd people often squeezed into the be devoted to something more than growing grass and aisles and in the back of the auditorium are a frre mar-silver steel poles. Some grass really should be meant to shall's nightmare. The projection equipment could also walk on. The area would r-~-------------..:::.._____:.._, beupdated.Yourcinemaex­
make a pleasant park or ~ perience is not complete un­garden-type spot. Some til you've seenRaiders ofthe

3=:;::.; 
flowers, picnic tables and a LostArk in tall-a-vision.



Svflt·,nq

fountain or two would also 'l • Few outsiders realize that camouflage the scenic view the Golden Dome, the of the Huddle loading dock ,.t famous symbol of Notre
ntnq

that is now visible from the J Dame, is virtually con­
~ ~ ..,..ea 

library. ~ J demned above the fourth 
• Considering that most of 1 floor. The University has
n 

Indiana is tlatter £han a ' ~2 done a lot of building in the pancake, it's amazing how '-.. ; 1~~,<· • ,·. last few years; some time, uneven they managed to , money and consideration make the sidewalks. In some should be set aside soon to places on campus, each step renovate the Dome. The one takes is literally teeter-·•) Fieldhouse had to be torn ing on the brink of disaster. ... down because 1 5 years ago The uneven sidewalks it was deemed in chronic combined with Hoosier disrepair. The same thing weather tendencies often will happen to the Dome if create man-made lakes that '---------------------..:...---l nothing is done. This would 
rival Saint Joseph's and Saint Mary's in size. Tower quad also bring an end to the forbidden nocturnal Dome ex-residents will require a rowboat to get to dinner if the plorations by curious students. These visits are dan­reservoir on the south side of the north dining hall gets gerous, but understandable. As Notre Dame students, any bigger. If the sidewalks were fixed up a bit, maybe it's hard to accept spending four years here and never students wouldn't be so disposed to blazing new paths visiting the most famous part ofcampus. Nothing with on the quads. such immense historical value should be locked up and 
• Because of student abuses in the co-ex meal plan be-boarded offfrom the public. tween Notre Dame and Saint Mary's; Notre Dame has recently moved the co-ex distribution site to the South These are just a few suggestions. In the eight weeks Dining Hall. Notre Dame and Sai.nt Mary's officials 
until graduation both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will 

should discuss the possibility of connecting Saint Mary's to the University computer system. In addition 
be transformed into a seeming midwestern paradise to the obvious benefit at the dining halls, it would also save time when getting checks validated at the with the help of sod, spring flowers, fertilizer and, of 
bookstore. Placing both institutions on the same com­course, lots of rain. It would be impressive if a few im­
puter system would also encourage the official co­exchange policy that exists between the two schools. 
provements made during this year's spring cleaning

• Like it or not, weekend movies at the engineering auditorium are one of the most popular regular events lasted beyond the death ofthe sod this summer. 
~...,.. .....................................,..~ ...............~........................~~................................................. The-Observer 
i ~ ~ ~ ~ i ~ ~ ~ \ 
Design Editor ................................Troy lllig 1)'/Jeset!ers ............................. Reggie Daniel 
Tom MacLennan News Editor.. .................... Mark Worscheh 
! ~ ",.,..,~ ! ~ 
Copv Editor ......... Oiane got promoted!!!! Features La_vout ................Sarah Hamilton 
~ ~ 
Editorials Layout....................... Tim Neely 
\ ~ 
Sports Copv Editor............. Mike Rin·ardi N/J Da)' Editor.. . ..... Jane l'antll 
~ ~ ~ 
SMC /Ja)' Editor.. ..................... Tim Petter. Tvpist ..................................................... Betsy 
~ Everything But the Gondola ~ 
Ad Design ...................................... Paul Slota 
J Southern Italy Is Close )
Pbotographer....john (IIi Dad!) Wachter GuestAppearances Carole Clark (Sorry. I 
~ As Parisi's Italian Restaurant 
wlmpt:d oU£! ), a case, Scotty, Needles!\, 
~ Features Their Favorite Dishes ~ 
Ozave, Joe, Rabbit, Margaret, McGinn, 
and a lot of other people: who were also 
• to the Notre Dame Students and Faculty ~ 
in the way. 
~ . 
IIi Karen!!! (my iratt: sister inCA) 
i ~ ~ [!! Ravioli ~ Manicotti ~ 
The Absurderapproaches!!!! 
l l!l Pasta ~ Veal Parmiagiana ~ ~ l!l Fettucine l!l Chicken Cacciatore ~ ~ Cocktail-Beer-Wine ) ~ and of course ~ 
The Observer (USPS 598 ~201 1s 
l Don't Miss Our Own Original "PIZZA" ~ 

published Monday through Fr~day and on home football Saturdays except ~ superbly baked to your choice 
~ 

dur~ng exam and vacat1on per~ods The Observer IS publ1shed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· \ \ lege Subscr~pt1ons may be purchased 
l Open for Lunch and Dinner ~ 
for $25 per year tS 15 per semeoter) by wr~ttng The Observer P 0 Box Q 
i Tuesday-Saturday 

Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 The Observer 1s a member of The i (7 Course Meal Order Anytime) ~ Associated Press All reproduCtiOn 
~ ~Carry Out Available Iii North of Edison on Rt. 23 \
nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre 
~ 277-0578 ~ 
Dame Indiana 46556 
L ........,..~...,..............,..~ ...................,...~ ..............~..,.....,..........................,...............l 
Wednesday, March 23, 1983-page 2 




Spring Cleaning 
The Observer 

Replaces AM station 
Manager eyes rock WSND-FM 
By KELLY RYAN  funds  ~o  that WS!\'D can broadcaM  ciniak will manage the AM station.  
News Stajj  throughout  the  summer,  fult11ling  The business manager has not yet  
FCC  regulations.  Brence  did  not  been chosen. The new members will  
An FM WSND rock 'n' roll station  know  whether  any  of  the  new  take office April I.  
which would broadcast to the entire  department heads had plans to make  
South Bend area  -this is the main  changes in their departments.  
goal  for  Chris  Brence,  recently  The new WSND board, tradition­ Mark Rowland, outgoing station  
elected station manager ofWSND.  ally  composed  of  seniors,  has  manager, said that  a  new  election  
Brenet: proposed that the current  representives ofall cla!>ses for 1983­ procedure. in which the executive  
AM station be sold. possibly to Saint  8-f. Junior Will Hare will head the  hoard votes on new members, was  
Mary's,  and  a  new  FM  station  sports department, while junior Jim  used this year. In past years most of  
purchased. The current classical FM  Gallagher  is  the  new  director of  the outgoing hoard members have  
WSND station would not be endan­ production  engineering.  Sopho­ been seniors and they have chosen  
gered. Brence said that WSND is in­ more Lou Fuka is the new chief en­ their successors, but many of last  
vestigating the feasibility ofthe plan.  gineer  while  sophomore  Jeanine  year's members were running for re­ 
Brence said he  has  no  plans to  Gozedecki  is  the  news  election.  Rowland  said  that  the  
change any ofthe current formats or  manager/editor.  The  FM  manager  change .did  not  cause  any serious  
policies. He will continue the Sum­ position will be held by freshman  problems but it did make the deci­ 
mer hmd Program, which collects  Brent Kruger and freshman Jim :vtar­ sions "much more difficult."  

HPC 


Cotnmittee to study lottery options 
By MIKE KRISKO 
.Vews Sttl}f 
IIPC Pre~ident \fike \kAulifk e'­tahlished an Ad lloc Committee ". further ~tudy the housing situati• m ,md to suggest alternatives Eu .1 lot­terv at la~t night's meeting ot tne Hall P1·csidents Council. 
St. 'Ed's President Brian c.n >uth. President-elect of Carroll Hall \lark Lombardi and Cavanaugh President _lim Leous will join Student Govern­ment Housing Commissioner Jorge Valencia on the committee which will present its suggestions at next week's HPC meeting. 
Valencia reminded the council that March 30 is the deadline for rescinding housing contracts with­out penalty. "After that we will know 
the number of students that might 
have to face a lottery." he ~aid . 
After establishing the commtttee. the council also approved the final version ofa letter to FatherJohn· \'an Wolvlear. vice president tor student affairs. propo~ing guidelines for the possible housing lottery. The ktter was the same one that .\tcAulilk presented to the '>tudcnt Senate :vtonday night. 
In other bu~inc-ss. Howard llall 
President Tim Connollv recom­
mended that the incoming presi­
dents continue the "Chance to 
Dance" program. He added that 
steps should be taken to reserve 
Chautauqua for Fridays during the 
fall semester. 
Counoliy mentioned that he 
thinks the new council will be in a good position to ask \"an Wolvlear ti>r improvements in LaFortune Stu­dent Center. "We've demonstrated that it can be successfully used. and that ·with further improvements it (the Chance to Dance Program) can lw even better." he said. 
Tht· hall presidents also were given II PC All-Star Team Certificates to present to· members of their respective dorms. Two members of 
c.u:h interhall team will be awarded the certificates. 
The Hall Elections Committee suggested that hall elections should take place between RA selections in early March and Spring Break, so that all new presidents will take office at the same time. 

Sanctions not necessary 
Innoculation drive at IU is successful 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­
Enough students rolled up their 
sleeves for measles shots or proved 
they didn't need them yesterday to 
make Indiana University and state 
health officials optimistic that sanc­
tions may not have to be imposed. 
At an immunization and verifica­
tion center set up in the Indiana 
Memorial Union, 499 students were 
immunized and 1,300 proved their 
immunity yesterday, said Ken Al­
lman. public health adviser for the State Board of Health. 
"We are very optimistic about the numbers ofstudents from yesterday and todav. The last contlrmed case of measles was found Friday with an Il' student from Fort Wayne," said Allman. who is in charge of the veritkation and immunization cen­ter. 
State health oftkials plan to con­
tinue surveillance on campus until 
three weeks from today. when free 
inoculation~ ti>r the German and 
old-fa~hioned measles will he 
available from I 0 a.m. to -1 p.m. Offi­
cials also will continue to check stu-

Abiogenesis Dance Collective "Moves"-A Concert 8pm Saturday, March 26 2:30pm Sunday, March 27 Washington Hall Notre Dame $1 Donatio_n 

Wednesday, March 23, 1983 page 3 

dents' immunity today. 
But after today, students who are unaccounted for will receive letters from the State Board of Health encouraging them to get a vaccina­tion, Allman said. 
Then, on April 5, the board of health will hold one more verification-immunization clinic. Any students not immunized after that date may be subject to sanctions from the university, he said. 
"Hopefully, after April 5, no sane­cafeteria privileges, check-cashing privileges and withholding diplomas and grade cards. 
tions  will  be  necessary,"  Allman  
added.  
Possible  sanctions  include  
denying  students  dormitory  

About 21,000 students on the campus of 32,000 were vaccinated between the outbreak of old­fashioned measles in earh· Februarv and before spring bre;k which ended :vtonday. 


Wottied About Q Lottety? Be PtepQted 
JUNIOR CLASS 0-C ORIENTATION 
Presentations by the South Bend Police, off-campus students, and Rich Hunter. 
Keenan Basement 7:00 Wed. march 23 
a CHANCE to DANCE 





;ntheCHAUT~U:::UR/NG 6 
Friday M~:::::n::::~~::m L1rJE''i Door pnzes & refreshments ~~ll__~V__--"-'--'...;.:_---'--1__\....., 
NDISMC~~ cequ;<ed/ \ 
L----------------------------J 
THE OBSERVER! JOHN WA<.HTER 

Hall Presidents Council President Jfike .lfcAu/iffe addresses the council last nigbt. JfcAuliffe established an Ad Hoc committee to stud}' altenwlil•es to a bousing lottery. See .Hike Krisko's story• at left. 


................................................................................... "'"'""1 
c.Atte~tto~· ~awyetr 'g u\flght CWed, uUanch 2g, 7:00 pm 
~----------------------------,
I 

Back by popular demand!!  I t  
Citizen Kane  
COTH presents three showings  
Thursday, March 24 at 5:15, 7:30, &9:45  
Annenberg Auditorium  
Snite Museum of Art· Notre Dame  
Admission $2.00  


The Picture Man 
Junior Parent's Weekend pictures are in! Pick-up at LaFortune South Alcove 
Wed. March 23rq Thurs March 24th Noon--S pm 
Re-orders taken at this time 
The Observer 




200 demonstrate 


Train travels with warheads 
Seven protesters lay on the ground blockading a line of cars going into the main gate as a military security official points at them at the ASSOCIATED PRESS Vandenberg Air Force Base earzy Monday morn­ing. The protesters are demonstrating against the testing ofnuclear missiles on the base. 
BANGOR, Wash. (AP) -A train believed carrying nuclear warheads pulled past a crowd of demonstrators into a submarine base yesterday ending a 2,000-mile journey. Police arrested six people who tried to block the tracks. 

Two hundred people who had gathered peacefully with flowers and signs were ordered back as the 
train passed through the tence made the last leg of the trip. surrounding the base at noon. The The gathering here was the lar­crowd surged forward, but the train gest. didn't stop 
The train's journey from Texas The trip began Friday near Amaril­was marked by vigils at yards and lo, Texas, home of a Pantex Corp. crossings throughout the hydrogen warheads are assembled. Northwest, and protesters gathered in five Washington state com­Government ofticials declined to munities as the heavily guarded train say what the train was carrying, but 
said it was the kind that would 
transport nuclear weapons. Anti­nuclear groups said the train was 

believed to be carrying about 100 warheads for the l1SS Michigan, the 
mt 1\Uigltt.& ofllTt<!Iastlt 
Haircut Shampoo Blowdry 
second Trident submarine, which 
arrived March 16 at the base on 
Hood Canal. 20 miles west ofSeattle. 
& Condition Reg. $15 
NOW $8.50 with coupon 
Wednesday, March 23, 1983-page 4 

Ex-EPA official returns to post. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -William 
D. Ruckelshaus returned yesterday to the battered Environmental Protection Agency, drawing a thun­derous cheer from thousands of its employees with the simple promise 
that "We will administer and en­force the laws as they're written by Congress." 
President Reagan's nominee for EPA administrator spoke from a stage in the shopping mall where the agency's oftices are located. "Our job," the Indianapolis native told the beleagured headquarters staff, "is to serve the people, not to condemn them, not to bully them." 
Ruckelshaus, who says he has a 
"free hand" from Reagan to restore 
the agency's integrity, is the man 
who opened its doors as the first El' A 
administrator in December I970. 
"Welcome Back, Bill" declared a 
huge hanner waved in front of him. 
At that, he joked, "It's necessary 
for me to fill out more forms than 
EPA has paper." 
"I have to go through an FBI check. I ought to be able to pass that," said the one-time acting FBI director. "When I left the FBI, I took my t11e with me." 
President Reagan, he said, was committed to cleaning up the en­vironment and will give the agency the resources to do the job. 
continued/rom page I 
pregnancy threatens the woman's 
health, Warner said. The hospital 
never did first trimester abortions. 
Warner said a combination ofurea and the hormone prostaglandin was u~ed to induce labor and kill the fetus in the ahortions at Madison Ceneral. That combination is less 

Haircut only $6 with coupon 
54533 Terrace Lane, 
South Bend (Across from 

(Hair must be washed day of cut)
Martin's on S.R. 231 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 

th€ 0BS€RV€R
THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 SAT. 8:30-5:30 

272·0312 277-1691 
($6 otter only applies to male patrons) 
IS now accept1nq applications roQ th€ POSitiOn or 
FINAL DAY Senior Formal Bid Sales 



assistant ~eatuues €b1tou 
Lemans Lobby 3:30-5:30 
LaFortune Lobby 3:30-5:30 

applications must B€ m sy ~RJbay, 5 pmGet your bid today for "The Main Event" 
call SaRah at 239-5313 ~OR moR€ m~oRmatJon
of 1983 and GET PSYCHED!!! 
Easter Break ...uDaily Rental 
The ND Student Union presents *Rates starting at $16.99
the HOT concert film... available March 30

The Grateful Dead LIVE 
These rates are non-discountable.

at Radio City Music Hall 
Cars must be returned to renting location. 

~­
~ 
r 

To this, the crowd listened quietly 

without applauding. 
There was silence, too. when he 

made an obvious reference to the 
administration's philosophy of less 
regulation. 
"The protection must proceed 

with the winds ofchange ofpolitical 
life. If American people want to see 
regulation lessened, we have to find 
another way," he said. 
But he quickly added, "where 

firmness is necessary, where it's 
necessary to get the courts to help, 
we will ask them." 
Ruckelshaus, a graduate of Har­vard University Law School, began his political career as an Indiana deputy attorney general in 1960, moved up to become chief counsel to the state attorney general by 1963 and was elected to the Indiana House ofRepresentatives in 1966. In 
1968, he went to Washington with the new Nixon administration. 
Ruckelshaus, with his dark-framed glasses, t left the EPA in 19.,3, the same year he held the FBI job and then moved to the Justice Depart· ment as deputy attorney general. 
There, on Oct. 20, 1973. he resigned rather than fire Watergate special prosecutor Archibald Cox, as Cox sought access to President Nixon's tape recordings. 
• • . Babies 

likely to harm the woman than the saline solution previously used, he said. and could be responsible for more live births. 
Grimes, however, said urea and prostaglandin are widely and suc­cessfully used in second trimester abortions nationwide. 
Madison General formerly did on­

ly "genetic" abortions -those done 
after the 20th week because tests 
have shown the fetus has a genetic 
defect which can cause death or 
severe retardation. Amniocentesis 
and other tests for genetic defects 
can only be done in _the second 
trimester. 
"Neither the people who seek abortions nor the doctors are negligent in waiting too long to per­form these abortions because they can only work as quickly as medical technology does to determine if there is a defect," Warner said. 
Spokeswoman Priscilla Arsove said UW hospital would continue to do abortions until the end of the 23rd week after the woman's last menstrual period. The hospital has yet to compile total abortions figures for the last two years, but did 
1,362 abortions in 1980, including 
435 in the second trimester. 
UW hospital now requires that all 

women pregnant longer than 20 
weeks and wishing abortions to have 
ultrasound, a test that is the most ac­
curate way to determine the gesta­
tion of the fetus. 
The policy was instituted after the 

aborted babies which survived were 
found to be more advanced in their 
development than had been 
diagnosed. In one case, the preg­
nancy was determined to have been 
26 weeks' duration instead of the 21 weeks that had been believed. 
Last year, the births following abortions prompted some Wiscon­sin lawmakers to try to ban abor· tions in public hospit.ab. a measure that passed in the Asscmhly but died without a Senate vote. 
State Rep. Wayne Wood said the 

births "certainlY addnl fud to the 
fire and directed !'>OI1ll' ;Jttention w 
the problem," but he would have 
called for restrictions anyway. He 
said second trimester abortions are a 
"heart-wrenching" problem for doc­
tors who first try to kill the fetu~ and 
then must work to save it. 

.Editorials 
Wednesday, March 23, 1983-page 5 


A dubious affirmation of a doubtful election 
A five-member committee of the Notre Dame Judicial Board has decided that the March 1 election for the Class of 1985 officers is valid. Speaking for the committee, Judicial Coordinator Kevin Stierer stated: "It is our opinion that there were not enough substantiated cases of infringement upon an individual's right to vote to warrant another election for the Class of 1985 officers." 
Allegations of voting irregularities were first cast by John Decker, presidential candidate of the Mob ticket. Decker. charged that a shortage of ballots prevented some students from voting. Director ofOmbudsman Tom Koegel admitted that, in at least one case, a student was turned away from polling place when his dormitory ran out ofballots. 
It is strange that in a university which so prizes fair play such voting irregularities would be allowed. Stierer interviewed eight students who claimed to be victims of the shortage; eight such victims could have indeed altered the outcome of an elec­tion which was decided by only four votes. 
A week before the actual validation of the election, Stierer was quoted as saying, ''I'd be surprised ifwe (the committee) changed anvthing." 
If Stierer's comment is any indication of the mood of the committee before it investigated the allegations, one must doubt the objectivity of a committee which "followed the assumption that a mistake was made in the ballot distribution." 
Stierer never stated how many claims would invalidate the election. The commit­tee agreed that one student's claim was valid. One can but wonder ifthe committee only wanted to avoid the trouble of rescheduling the election. 
Stierer does admit, however, that the committee's decision was based on "grey areas," namely the voting intentions ofthe alleged victims, the inconvenience ofthe wait for new ballots once the original supply had been exhausted, and the time at which the supply ofballots ran out. 
Any decisions on such "grey areas" are by definition subjective. It seems that from the outset of the investigation, committee members did not strive to maintain an objective approach to the allegations. And the affirmation of the election results by the committee can only point to unprofessional and highly dubious methods by which the committee reached its decision that a new vote would be unnecessary. 


Liberating education from despair 
MICHIGAN CITY -A cab driver here rare­ly clears S I 00 per week. In a city where the two major industries are the Indiana State Penitentiary and Lake Michigan resorts, little money ever changes hands much less trickles down from corporate investment. 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 

Another city, 37 miles east on the Indiana Tollway faces a similar problem, only the problem, like the population is three times greater. The two major industries are an auto parts manufacturer and a university. And neit­her Bendix nor Notre Dame prosper during a depression. 
Despair -it's not a pretty word, nor a word that too many of us ever experience. It's a word for the "down and out" of skid row or the refugees of a war-torn countryside. But little by little, despair is infecting the minds and hearts of students whose anger was only 1 5 years ago focused on the abuses and evils.of 
a Southeast Asian debacle. 
It is despair in Webster's purest sense, "to give up hope for or beliefin success, progress, or achievement." 
But why have those who have dedicated their education to the pursuit of "knowledge for its own end" grown despondent in the great age of academic freedom? Why have spoiled children forsaken the hope ofa future 1\lll of space-age progress? Why do learned men and women fret the end of a college education which promises academic fulfill­ment? 
We leave the world ofco-existence to enter the world ofco-extinction. 
We receive training in order to perform a function; we do not absorb the ambiance and breathing spirit of knowledge. We eat its grapes and burn the vine because its takes up too much room. (And no one would want to take up unnecessary room -it would be un­economical. ) 
Society only wants winners, and the num­ber of winners increases arithmetically while the population increases geometrically. What we get is a greater proportion of"losers," and less representation per man and woman. There is no spot, no job, no title for second best, even when second best is undeniably qualified for a job. 
Our society boasts only one leader per field of study. A worker reports to a boss, pledges allegiance to a president, and watches a champion on television at night. Fifty years ago, America had approximately the same amount of winners as today, but today it has three times the population. Older people say the young have few heroes; there are the same number of heroes, just more worshippers. 
And students gradu<iting from the Univer­sity, especially arts and letters majors, are 
discovering  that  the  only  hope  for  
"successful"  employment lies  three years  
away, past the Bar Exam.  

Parents used to ask their arts and letters children if they were going to be teachers; af­ter all, what else was philosophy, theology, or English good for? 
But now, parents ask their children if they really want to study liberal arts as teachers with 20 years ofexperience are being laid off, and as even the Peace Corps now rejects those who have "no technical skills." No one wants an arts and letters graduate except a graduate or professional school. 
There is no place because there are too many over-qualified applicants for the posi­tions available. The only career which promises rapid promotion based on the in­centive and knowledge gained by a liberal arts education is the military. And the two are simply incompatible for most BA recipients. And for those high-principled men and women who do not want to sell out, the only options are blue collar jobs or unemployment lines. 
The world we have attempted to synthesize 
for four years falls apart amid rejection slips 
and rent notices. The education which was to • 
shield us from driving taxi cabs and screwing 
bolts on an assembly line has only told us how 
miserable we should be when we take such 
jobs. 

Cardinal Newman's liberal education must 
content itself with studying knowledge for its 
own sake, because there is nothing else. 
P.O. Box Q  
UP/wire Dear Editor: By now many ofyou will have noticed the new creature in the Lafortune Student Cen­ter. I refer to the computer-driven red diode matnx mtormation display system output device located above the entrance to the South alcove in the main hall. I call it the Red Line. Those who claim responsibility for its presence are the student government and student union, the director ofstudent affairs, and an organization called the Electronic News Network ( ENN for short). At it s current snail's pace, much slower than ordinary speech, the Red Line's memory hold~ about eight minutes worth of news. Currently this includes only encap­sulations of UP! wire stories, but room will soon be made, we are told, for information concerning cultural events ofinterest to the Notre Dame community, and for advertise­ments of some of the less obnoxious com­mercial products available nationwide. Other than the advertising, the Red Line will contain almost no information that can't easily be found in The Observer, hence it is supertluous. Its only real attraction is that it  is a cute electronic marvel formerly seen on­is watching it. ly in science tktion (e.g. Buck Rogers or Or­The ENN people would like to see thewell's 1984 ). proliferation of these unsightly Red Lines. They want them at the dining halls. theThe Red Line is strongly biased in favor of library, the main circle, and more. Perhapspassivity of the reader. A newspaper reader they'd like one at the Grotto. too. There isselects the features he likes, then reads them good reason to believe that those whoat whatever pace is comfortable for him. per­elected to have the Red Line installed did sohaps stopping occasionally to assimilate or with admirable motive. But the result is ut­discuss the facts and ideas. But the Red Line terly deplorable. The Red Line should bewordwatcher is a t1xed station, receiving removed.overmediated facts in predetermined order john Rodesat an invariable rate. The Red Line is terribly intrusive. To entirely avoid seeing it requires con­President Hesburgh siderable effort, because it projects a con­stantly changing pattern of highly intense light in a very narrow spectrum. This sort of DearEditor: light is at least mildly harmful to vision and Two articles were printed recently in The general health, besides being annoying and Obsen1er criticizinng Father Hesburgh. One ostentatious. editor suggested he retire, and the other la­mented being "identified" with Hesburgh. Bv providing a mediated information Both implied that Hesburgh might be more stre~m over which the "receiver has ab­concerned with promoting his own solutely no control, the Red Line sets a notoriety than with championing the pur­precedent very dangerous to human suits of the rest of the Notre Dame com­freedom. Even a n' set can be shut oft~ but munity. the Red Line must be endured constantly; To suggest that a man who has spent his even (philosophers take note) when no one entire adult life challenging Notre Dame to  excellence was motivated by selfish con­cerns is outrageouslY naive. In addition, Hes­burgh would be the last person to expect total agreement with every position he has taken over the years. In fact, he would be disheartened if an intellectual dialogue did not exist on campus about the vital issues of the day. \1ost of us are lucky enough to spend only four years at Notre Dame. I am certainly thankful that a young Hesburgh decided al­most fifty years ago to stay at Notre Dame. Who knows, if he hadn't, he may have become President of the United States, rather than a priest. And then where would the University of Notre Dame be today? jim Twist, M.D. Buffalo, New York Editor's .Vote: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily space con­straints of the editorial page. Letters should he under 250 words and address specitk issues. They must he typed and bear the addres~. telephone number, and signature of the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, or letter~ addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. All letters are sphject to editing.  


IheO~r========~== 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of eit.'ler institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinionson ompus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239·5303 
News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide
Editorial Board 
NewsEditor.................................Mark Worscheh 
Editor-in-Cbief............................David Dziedzic Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe Department Managers Executive Editor..............................Paul McGinn Production/Graphics...........Joseph Musumeci BusinessManager .............. -.......Daniel 0'Hare Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi Controller ............................................Alex Szilvas Saint Mary'sEditor...............Anne Monastyrski Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Features Editor...... , ..................... Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Photo Editor.......................................Scott Bower SystemsManager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3, 1966 
r------------------------------------------~ 



~SHOWC 

T
he political aspirations of mobsterJohn 'Big Tuna' Deck­er were finally laid to rest Monday night as the Student Senate voted unanimously to affirm the con­troversial junior class elections. 
"Tired of the s;me old bull? Make it our business." With this as their slogan The Mob collected 32 percent ofthe votes in the first election. 

Kevin 8inget 

features 
Decker, "The Boss," is a short, stout blonde. A smart operator, Decker likes to tell stories and make insinuations but he never names names or sticks his neck 
out. One of Decker's favorite tales concerns a "family" dinner held in B-line of the North Dining. Hall during the campaign. Dressed to kill in their best gangster duds, the family marched into dinner and created quite a stir. "The family simply wanted to eat dinner together," Decker said. 
"We weren't campaigning. We never mentioned a word about the elections." This is an important dis­
tinction since campaigning in 
public places is strictly forbidden. 
"We just went in as a group and sat down together," Decker said. "We did say grace. We are a religious family." 
Decker fairly beamed as he recounted how everyone instantly recognized them as The Mob. 
"A couple ofguys threw some j~llo at us and the rest ofthe crowd booed them," he said. "One ofour hit men, Big Lou D' Agostino, went over and straightened them out with a hand on the back ofeach of their necks." They don't call him Big Lou for nothing. D'Agostino 
doesn't tower over anyone but, 
like a big oak stump, it's much 
easier to take the time to go around 
him than to try to move him. 
Decker implied that another 
candidate may have been behind 
the jello incident but ofcourse 
won't come right out and say it. 
"It was a vicious attack on us," said Brian 'Peach' Potasiewicz of the jello incident. Potasiewicz is 
"The Banker." Tall and slender with curly black hair, Potasiewicz is clearly the brains behind the or­ganizaion. He is philosophical, a thinking man. "To tell you the truth, we were 
just out there to grab attention," 
Potasiewicz said. "We love atten­
tion. We love the limelight. The 
primary thing was to have fun with 
it -and we did." 
"We would take the job serious­
ly, but within reason," Potasiewicz 
said. "All the class president really 
is anyway is a social commisioner." 
The whole concept of"the 
Mob" originated with Potasiewicz. 
"We were just fooling around 
thinking ofcreative ideas," he said. 
"We made up the whole platform 
in about 30 minutes one Saturday 
night." 
Some of the ideas he andJim 
'Speakeasy' Gibbons conceived 
were selling St. Mary's into white 
slavery and improving com­
munications with the administra­
tion through wiretapping and 
surveillance. 
Gibbons is the "Vice Boss." He 
and the boss are exact opposites, 
two complementary halves ofa 
greater whole. While Decker is 
subtle and leery ofsticking his 
neck out where it might get 
chopped off, Gibbons is very much 
a man in search ofa chopping 
block. 
He is blunt and harsh and does 
not avoid controversy. He is con­
stantly being hushed by the rest of 


SE Wednesday, March 23, 1983-page 6 
Designs for a mall, sch 
Charles Lennon, the executive



Robett Walsh &Thomas Pietonek 
director ofthe Alumni Association, 

features 
A
s the dust settles on the rubble, 
the future ofthe fieldhouse site 
is certain. A landscaped mall is 
planned for the lot. The Alumni As­
sociation as well as numerous 
South Bend firms are already 
working on salvaging usable parts 
of the building, with much being 
distributed to alumni as souvenirs. 
The long-range plans and the t1nal 
condition of the Old Fieldhouse 
before its demolition are not so af­
t1rrned. 
Immediate plans for the site where Irish cagers once trodded have been tlnalized according to physical plant director Donald Dedrick. A landscaped mall, com­plete with sidewalks, trees, shrub­bery and benches, will till the vacancy. A hub, similar to the one in front ofNieuwland Science Hall will be constructed in the center of the mall where all of the walkways will converge. 
Work on the park will begin shortly after graduation and con­tinue throughout the summer. In the meantime, it will be four to six weeks before the debris is removed. Once all the rubble has been cleared, a hard surface composed ofdirt and topsoil will flank the spot until after Com­mencement Exercises in May. 

Eulogy for 'Big Tuna' and ffiob 
the family. Gibbons, slenuer with 
short black hair, is·obviously the 
instigator within the group. He is 
the proverbial straw that stirs the 
drink. 
"We decided it would be fun to shake things up a little bit," Gib­bons said. "After reading the other 
platforms, I was surprised we didn't get more votes than we did. The other platforms said 'resume' 
all over them." 
Gibbons' favorite part of the campaign week was the family's tour through the library. "It was in­credible. We would walk into a room and everybody would recognize us. The guard wanted to check our briefcases and we pulled our guns on him. I think it was the tlrst time the guy ever laughed in his life." 
Dave 'Bugsy' Minion is the fourth and most mysterious mem­ber ofthe family's power structure. He is the "Right Hand Man." Mini­on doesn't like to talk to reporters. The tall, powerfully built blonde tends to remain silent when out­siders are present. Known mainly for his dry wit and gymnastic ability, he sits back and takes in everything. 
Now that the last nail has been driven into the coflin of Decker's political career, the 'Big Tuna' is once again john Decker, Flanner Hall sophomore. He looks back upon his campaign without bitter­
ness. 
"We were surprised at how 
many friends we got after we 
decided to run," Decker said. 
"Girls would want to take pictures 
with us when we were going 
around. One girl wanted me to 
autograph one ofour posters. The 
girls really ate it up." Too bad for 
The Mob that four more of them 
were not so hungry for their kind 
ofgovernment. 


~,~:-~,~ -~··iiiiiiiiiii;ii=iiiiiiiiiii~~~~~;~~~~;~~~~.;~~;~~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~~a~n~e~-a~r~l~y~m;o~r~n~in·g~c~la~s~s~.'11111!~~........................~ 


The Observer Features Section 
1 ednesday, March 23, 1983-page 7 

mes for souvenir SQies 
that sale is private, numerous remained in quality condition. Fur­structure came down in one piece South Bend firms have been bid­thermore, although the roofwas as further evidence. ding for the right to sell other weak in some spot ofthe older bricks as well as any salvagable structure. Ritschard felt this was 
Odd isn't it that the Physical seats. due to lack of maintenance rather · 
Plant Department called the 
Long range plans remain un­than excessive age. He again structure "terrible" and "in very, settled. Many suggestions have pointed to the double planking of very, poor shape" only weeks been brought forward. Ellerbe Ar­the roof as proofofquality and the before the structure was chitects' 1967 master campus plan fact th~t the roofof the new demolished. which called for the demolition of the Fieldhouse. proposed a physics building to he erected on the site. Many studenb believe the grpund could be the site ofa student cen­ter, particularly because ofits central location on campus. Francis Kervick, a professor in the Architecture Department in the early 1900s, in ·his 1920 master plan of the campus called for such a center. which literallv would have wrapped around the Fieldhouse. Although the idea was 
not used, much of Kervick's plan was, including the ti>rmation of South Quad. 
Ritschard Brothers ofSouth Bend said the demolition went well with nothing unexpected, ex­cept the weather. Surprisingly, the Ritschard representative added that the structure was in good shape. particularly the 192'i structure which he thought was excellently constructed and 


ated... 

tial pause in the destruction process, the wrecking­identified in yesterday's paper as jack Horvol, started the decimation of the twin-towered facade. The man obviously been doing this for some time, and has a for the dignity deserved ofsuch a moment and the ·ofthe sort ofpeople (yes, like me) who can't bear building funeraL He began at the north end ofthe wall, tower and a healthy expanse of brick with one fell he slowed down, working with a surgeon's touch, aving the south tower alone, tottering on an eroded s and stones that were already grinning through their 
, 

shing to see that this man had a sense for the value of e was systematically destroying. He must have thought e Old Fieldhouse deservd one more exciting finish to trious history. The finale was as momentous as a water­. neral for an American president. When the smoke )Wer was gone. still continues as the debris from the cataract of 

masonry is gradually carted away to be packaged for sale to gullible sen­timentalists. But the Fieldhouse is gone, and much as I cannot say that I ever had that close a relationship with this building, I will miss it. 
When you are busy amassing the 
best memories ofyour life, it is disturbing to lose a landmark part of the way through. 
I cannot help but wonder if we would have deserved to have kept the Old Fieldhouse, had we had the chance. The night before the work commenced, I was sitting up here in the office, enjoying the prospect of fairer weather, when a shatter of glass snapped my reverie. Some 



(r 'T~~~~~~i~~~n~«com 
pmy, <he D"P'"' Dmcmoflndi• will P«foem

gentlemen down in the courtyard 
I 
:he classic dances of their native land tonight on thewere derivmg their evening jollies Cll stage ofSt. Mary's Little Theatre. The performance

by rossing bricks through the few U ' begins at 8 p.m. and admission is three dollars. Tickets
remaining windows in the C may be purchased in Room 239 of Moreau Hall. Call 
hollowed-out building. These same A 284-4626 for ticket reservations.
people were probably not too long U Since its formation in 1949, by the celebrated South
ago shouting "Save the Fieldhouse." It's a sad day when a building com­Q Indian dancer Mrinalni Sarabhali, the company has 
toured over 40 counrries in Western and Eastern

mands more respect than people. Europe, North, Central and South America, the Near But sometimes the buildings 
East and Southeast Asia. · deserve it, after years oflong service 
Sarabhali's daughter, Mallika is the featured dancer and patient acceptance ofabuse by 
tonight as the troupe brings three traditional Indian puerile fools with bricks. How many 
dances and a taste of Indian culture to a Midwestern --·-----.peopk <.·;~n say the same? 
campus. 


No nonsense Itis 
E
ver since Donnie Iris released his hit Love is I ike a Rock, it was ap­parent that he had a talent for making good, upbeat rock songs. Music critics have shown their approval by garnering him acclaim in many publications, such asRolling Stone. Even with the critics on his side, however, he hasn't been able to achieve superstardom, and for this reason many people haven't become acquainted with his music. Very unfortunate. Now, with his latest release, The High and the Mighty, he offers us an oppurtunity to do exactly that, because the album is a solid set ofrefreshing, pure rock songs. 
"'· . 
First ofall, his approach to rock is simple, which means that his al­bums don't have "deep messages," or artistic pretensions, and aren't overly serious which, today, is a blessing. Also, his songs about love don't get too sentimental or downright wimpy like those ofthe group Air Supply. Instead, his music is refreshing because it em-
Pat Beaudine 
tecotd teview 

phasizes a punchy beat, bright harmonies, commercial choruses, and 
conventional lyrics, which, in other words, means that nothing gets in the way ofhis music. 
The whole first side echoes that same thought and gets underway with a good song called "Tough World," and with its catchy guitar line and chorus, it doesn't even matter that he's talking about the problems of the world because he sounds positive anyway. In a sense, he feels that he's going to pull through even if the world can be cold and rough. 
The second song, "Wann:t Tell Her," as well as the other two cuts on the side, "Glad All Over," and "Parallel Lines" have all the hal­lmarks ofthe first tune: a bright chorus, Beatle-esque harmonies, a lighthearted approach, and spontaneous beat. An important point about these songs is that the music itself is excellent and that every song is highly entertaining, which is an exception in most oftoday's music. 
On the tlip side ofthe album, one standout cut entitled t "ThisTime it Must Be Love," actually transcends the music on side one and shows Iris at his most stylish. It even compares very favorably to "Love is Like a Rock," because ofits commercial appeal and that feat is hard to accomplish. Noteworthy aout this song is that he feels comfortable singing lines like, "1 am torn apart/ What's this pound­ing in my heart?/! can't walk away/It gets stronger everyday/ I can't sleep at night/ I fear it might be tragic/! ain't eating right/ This time it might be magic." This stance is a definite and welcome switch from the stud mannerisms oftoday's many rock groups, and even though some ofthe songs contain cliches, he never sounds less than originaL 
This quote also exposes his optimistic side and this attitude also 
· contributes to the success of the album. Throughout The High and theMigh~y. he deals with the magic oflove, the freedom and joys ofa Saturday night, and the feeling of being wholly content In other words, the listener doesn't tire ofhearing these things, especially when the music is good and uplifting. 
Finally, altho.ugh this album is overall a very solid eight songs, it is no masterpiece. Not every cut is of the same caliber as the music on the first side or "This Time it Must Be Love." The title track, for in­stance, is a little too repetitious and "You're Gonna Miss Me" doesn't have half the power that "Tough World" has, but these songs do not 
wholly discredit the album itself And even though the only thing that might be holding him back from superstardom is that Iris is not able to put together a full album ofgreat music, The High and the Mighty, would be a good investment ifyou like rock without all the nonsense. 


Sports:;~~~;:r~i~e;t_;;_S;;:===:;:=:;===========w=e=ct=ne=sct=a=y,=;Mr=ar=c=h=z=3,=1=9s=3==P=ag=e=s 
By The Obserz,er and The Associated Press 
Weather permitting,the Notre Dame baseball te~m will play St. Joseph's College in Renssaelear this afternoon. The Insh are coming offa 3-8 Southwestern swing, and are searchingfor some lost offense. Notre Dame batted only .188 on the trip. The twinbill is slated to begin at 3. -The Observer 
Bookstore Basketballwill hold its mandatory cap­tains· meeting Monday, March 28, at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. At least one representative of each team must be present. Teams which have not paid the 54 registration fee must bring the money to this meeting. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore signups will be held 
tomorrow in the LaFortune Ballroom from 5 to 6:30. Team captains need to bring a $3 entry fee, the names of the players on the team, and the name of the team. Also, if there are any players who will be going to the Senior Formal or taking the EIT's, their names should also be given. Games will begin after Easter. -The Observer 
Shirts being sold in the dining halls with the words Bookstore BasketballXII on them are not authorized by the tourna­ment. The shirts are being sold by a group of MBA students. The commissioner and his staff have no control over the money that is collected in the sale. -The Observer 
The Knute Rockne Mass and Breakfast, com­memorating the 52nd anniversary ofthe coach's tragic death, will be held this Sunday, March 27. The Notre Dame Club of Saint Joseph Valley, which sponsors the event, invites all ND-SMC students, faculty and staff. The Mass will begin at 8:1 5 a.m. in the South Dining Hall. The breakfast will begin at 9:1 5 a.m. The guest speaker at the breakfast will be Tony Roberts, NO football play-by-play announcer for the Mutual Radio Network. Co-captains Blair Kiel and Stacy Toran will attend also: Special guests include members of the Rockne family and former Rockne players. The cost of the breakfast is $4.25 for adults and $3.25 for children. For reservations, call the NO Alumni Office (239-6000) or Chris Twist (evenings at 272­0 164 ). -The Observer 
Tony Hunter has decided to leave the University for the remainder ofthis semester for personal reasons. Hunter, a 6-5, 235· lb. senior tight end on the 1982 Irish wiii return to school at a later date to complete work on his degree. Hunter is on the protected list of the United States Football League's Chicago Blitz, but he has not signed a contract with the team. He has returned to Cincinnati to tend to an illness in his family. -The Observer 
The NCAA Mideast Regionalwomen's basket­
ball tournament at Notre Dame this weekend will feature Big Ten champion Indiana, an 87·76 upset winner over No. II Kentucky last week in Lexington, No. 8 Georgia, the Southeastern Conference champion, No. 9 Tennessee, the region's top seed, and No. I3 Missis­sippi, also of the powerful SEC. Tickets are available at the ACC to students and the general public. The semifinals are set for Friday at 7 and 9 and the final is Sunday afternoon at I2:30. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will hold a meeting, which will include a film on Baylor head football coach Grant Teaff, in the Library Lounge at 8 p.m. tonight. All are invited. -The Observer 
Junior varsity lacrosse players are reminded that the Notre Dame J.V. will practice at 4 this afternoon. Assistant Coach Austin Henry asks the players to be prepared to practice outdoors. -The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athetics has announced the following times for the captains' meetings for the following events: Women's softball, this afternoon at 4:30; and Men's softball and Grad softball, tomorrow at 4:30p.m. Also, weigh-ins for the NVA wrestling tourna­ment will be Monday ofnext week from 4 to 8 p.m. at the NVA office in the ACC. The wrestling tournament will be held Wednesday, March 30 at 4 p.m. in the ACC Pit.-The Obserz1er 
The Water Polo Club has practice today and Thursday at 4 p.m. at The Rock. -The Observer 
LaTaunya Pollard ofCal State-Long Beach, who leads the nation in scoring in women's basketball, has been chosen Player of the Year in the third annual all-America coaches' poll by the Shreveport journal. Old Dominion's Anne Donovan, the I98I-82 Player ofthe Year, was named with Pollard to the coaches' first team and became the only player chosen to that unit for three consecutive years. Other first team members include Kentucky's Valerie Still, a senior like Pollard and Donovan. They are joined by juniors janice Lawrence of top-ranked Louisiana Tech and Paula McGee of No. 2 Southern California. Leon Barmore, who shares the Louisiana Tech head coaching duties with Sonja Hogg, edgedjody Conradt ofthird· 
rated Texas in voting for Coach of the Year. Southern California's Cheryl Miller was named Freshman ofthe Year and also was chosen a third team All-America. -AP 
• • •• Heart 

continuedfrom page 12 
hind the dark cloud, however. Freshman joe Franklin led Notre Dame in scoring with two goals and an assist, while another newcomer, senior justin Driscoll, added two more goals. Kevin Rooney scored the other goal. When the game started, the Irish shocked the veteran Blue Devils by playing a very tight defense and playing them nearly even. The first halfended with Duke holding a slim 4-2lead. All hopes for a Notre Dame upset disappeared, however, in the third quarter as the Blue Devils forced many Irish mistakes and outscored Notre Dame 6-2 in the period. "We looked good in the first half, but then our lack ofexperience hurt. us," explained O'Leary. "Our inten­sity was pretty good and the overall play was improved, but they pressured us in the second half and we kind offell apart." Once again, it was the newcomers who played a big role for the Irish as Tom Grote and Bob Trocchi each had two points to lead the team. Dan Pace, Steve Pearsall, Joe Hart. and justin Shay each contributed a goal to the cause. While his team's play was a biter­ratic, O'Leary did get the oppor­tunity to see some things that gave him some confidence about starting the Midwest Lacrosse Association schedule. "The tlrst half of the Duke game was det1nitely the high point of the trip," he said. "We stayed with a team that we expected to be much better than us. "We can do it, but we've got to do it for a whole game. not just a half." IRISH ITEMS -A scrimmage against the Michigan Lacrosse Club which was scheduled for today has been postponed until next Wednes­day ... The team's MLA opener is this Saturday when Kenyon College visits Cartier Field. If the weather does nQt improve. that game could also be postponed. 
Classifieds  The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p m However. classtfteds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to msert1ol'l. All classJIJeds must be prepatd. etther tn person or througn. the mat I  
!.__No_T_IC_Es_____.l L--1_w_A_N_TE_o____.lll...-_F_o_R_sA_LE____.I TYPING NEED RIDE TO CHGO AREA THIS FAI FOR SALE 1980 Yamahopper MC Jack1e Boggs FOR DEPAUL GAME 1664 or 1266/7 Low m1leage. Excellent cond1t1o~-$300 664-6793 Please call Dan at x6824 RIDE NEEDED TO CLEV 3/25 SEAN FOR SALE 1980 Yamahopper MC 233-6031 Low mileage. Excellent cond111on ­$300Save on natural vttamtns_ Free catalog Please call Dan a1 x6824H1ll House. SUite 427. 495 Old York Road, Jenkmtown, PA 19046 INDY! Two w1ld women need a nde to IN­DY thiS FRIDAY MARCH 25 Can leave Students! Remember to shop at Pan­TYPING AVAILABLE. 267-4062 dora's books where you'll find bar,anyt1me Call CAROLYN at 3707 gains everyday of the week. This week's special, all History and TYPING IN MY HOME (resumes, letters, Psychology are 50/ off. Stop in reports. term papers. etc.). NEAr. AC­NEED RIDE TO PHILLY OR HARRIS­and look around. 937 So. Bend Ave. CURATE WORK. REASONABLE BURG AREA LEAVING THIS FRIDAY­HATES. 233-7009. MARCH 25 CALL MIKE AT 8947. EX •ERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO NEED RIDE TO/FROM CLEV AREA 1 , ··lNG VERY REASONABLE RATES FOR EASTER CALL PAM 8851 tor sale 1bm seletnc typewnter tnl1ngual CALL287-5162 ball excellent conditiO about $ 290 call Dr Pa1va 239-7796 or 288-0994 Need R1de to Syracuse/Binghamton NY area tor Easter 3516Expenenced Typ1sl. Mrs. Bedford. 288­2107. Hours Mon.thru Fn. 8 am to 5 pm Need nde to JERSEY tor Easter Call Pat al1066 FOR RENTBe a Cert1fled Horse·s A--. Beautiful Wall Cert1hcate and Wallet Card, Only $3 00. Postpaid. DAD's,Box 822S, Centralia, Il­Need RIDERS to TOLEDO or VICinity. FURNISHED HOMES FOR NE'XTlinois 62801 leav1ng Th. 3-24 J1m 8706· 7 SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND 277­3604 NEEDED R1de/R1ders to Boston over PITISBURGH CLUB .EASTER f::i'lEAK Easter. Leav1ng 3-30. Call Tom x6802 BUS SIGN-UPS. .Wed March 23 at7pm ~tudent Rental, 5-bedroom home· $420 Lafortune L1tlle Theatre mo. 233-6779 NEED RIDE TO NYC OR Ll AREA FOR CLOTHES MADE TO MEASURE EASTER BREAK.Can leave any t1me TAILORING AND ALTERATION Wed the 30 Call CHRIS 3069 902 N NOTRE DAME -4 BEDROOMS. Fabnc cost. plus labor FULLY FURNISHED. 9 MONTH LEASE, Call232-7175 need llal1an Book Prego Urgent ph.3204 GUARANTEED UPPER liMIT ON HEAT. $335/MONTH 684-0933 (LOCAL CALL)Need Alders Roch, Syr, Ut1ca. NY tor Si1EILA WHALEN AND PAULA BAL­Easter Leav Tues. aft.(3-29) XPaul6981 LANTINE McCANDLESS HALL GOV"T R1de needed to Aurora IL area. 25-27 or Houses for rent -Furn1shed. I mt from VOTETHURS 26-27. Susan 4010 SMC campus 4-9 bdrm. 2 baths Call2773461  \LOST/FOUND \ LOST A bnght blue knapsack w1th a suede bottom It conta~ned a notebook. keys and calculator PLEASE return 10 room 334 P W or call2722 The contents are needed tor a group project Thank you LOST A Khaki overcoat w1th plaid lin1ng It s a London Fog from Brooks Brothers. Please call8152 1f found Reward thanks Lost-To the young lad1eswho are holding my LAUNDRY CARD hostage· I need my laundry PLEASE RETURN NICK x8232 LOST CANON AE·1 CAMERA BEFORE BREAK WILL ppv REWARD, NO QUESTIONS ASKED CALL 283-1388 ASK FORAL I PERSONALS I APEX ROCKS THE CHAUTAUQUA LAFORTUNE BALLROOM FRJ NITE FROM 9 30 TIL 1 30 If you know Tom Bertsche don r w1sh him a Happy 22nd B1rthday today He m1gh1th1nk he s popular or something HOW DO YOU SPELL UGLY? T-1-M R·E·l-L·L·Y NEED TO LOSE WEIGHT? CALL JANET 283-6808lor how to 1nfo! Boston! A1de nef:lded th1s weekend to Boston or Spnnglield area Call Colleen at 283­8641 GOOD LUCK BARB PRES OF BP love deb  ··EXCUSE ME, AMERICA" JUSTICE IN A NUCLEAR FUTURE? A Documentary Film On Conference--Interested students may DOM HELDER CAMARA apply at the Center tor Soc1al Concerns Internationally known spokesman for {239· 7869) before Thursday, March 24 at soctal JUStice and chansmatlc advocate 5 00 pm 50 students from Notre Dame for human nghts and soc1al change wtll be accepted on a ftrst come first serve Tomorrow basts $5.00 regtstrahon fee MARCH23 7:00PM, HOWARD HALL STUDENTS w1lling to host V1S1t1ng stu­dents attendtng student conference over­HEY SMC JUNIORS! GET INVOLVED night Fnday. March 25. please contact AND SIGN UP FOR AN INTERVIEW TO Center tor Soc1al Concerns (239-7869) BE A SENIOR CLASS COMMISSIONER' 'vtsttors will be brtngmg steeping bags SIGN-UPS IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES MARCH 22-25. IF ANY QUESTIONS To those who enJOY stealing stuffed CALL MURPH (5151) OR DENISE an1mals. or to the Mo. larry, and Curly of (5173). the other sex You may have Nutu but that sa long way away from gelling out of the kttchen stgned. Gtve me a year andHOW DO YOU SPELL UGLY? there wtll go the career T-1-M R-E-1-L-L-Y DANCE FEVER HOPEFULS-A PASS· OUT REMATCH IS IN ORDER WE CAN KATHY McCLURE. PLAY SNOWBALL-FOOTBALL AFTER. Happy 19th B~rhtday Th1s weekend 1s KAREN­REMEMBER HE WHO yours LAUGHS LAST LAUGHS LONGEST LOVE, ENOUGH PILLOW-ZONING. LETS SET Tod A DATE FOR SEVERE WRECKLAGE · P S No! I won 1 have any problems lh1s BUDDIES FOR LIFE weekend If you know what I mean: and, 1 thmk you do1 Snake Wt1at was your ::,ubStltute for a tan? PITISBURGH CLUB EASTER BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS Wed March 23 at For a 1a.,.·nas11t year tn McCANDLESS 7pm. Lator1une Little Theater HALL, vote SHEILA WHALEN AND PAULA Future Augusta Restdents Vote Thttrs BALLANTINE lor RYNASKI and WEBER .Pres and elecltons Thursday Vtce-Pres SmoKer I need a nde to Phtlly-Trenton.N J area Jsn t bJJster atun word? lor Easter Can leave Wed. afternoon (do you exerctse) Call Maureen at 4320 Spac1a1 So tell us Dor1hy Crash Doran H1t any H'T>m {cheap keyJ good ditches lately??? Chaos DEAR ELAINE Tnv1a What makes everytt11ng grow? Well. the tnp up was pretty scary but we made 11 I sure am glad I got my $1 12 To future Hoiy Cross Restdents For a back-·1111 sure come 1n handy Stop by Sw,ng,ng Dorm vote Cathy Mcisaac & El­and see us sometime I m outta here len Bvrne Pres1dent & Vtce-Prestdent Davtd Steve. Grow up  

The Observer 
Wednesday, March 23, 1983-page 9 
Elite Eight 


NIT announces quarters pairings 
Associated Press 
The National Invitation Tourna­
ment, the nation's oldest post­
season playoff, has reached the 
quarterfinals and the teams are 
beginning to see the New York City skyline down the road. 
"We're in Newark, just across the bridge," said Ken Turner, Mississip­pi's assistant coach, after the Rebels advanced with a 65-57 victory over South Florida in one of eight NIT games played Monday night. 
But the road to Madison Square Garden, where the NIT finishes up, can be a dif­t1cult path. Just ask DePaul and 


Texas Christian, which ~queezed in­
to the third round with narrow two­
point victories. 
TCll edged Arizona ~tate 78-76 and DePaul downed ~orthwestem 65-63. In other games, it was South Carolina 75, Virginia Tech 68; Fresno State i 2, Michigan State 58: Wake Forest 65. South Florida 57; Nebraska 85, Iona 7~: and Oregon State 88, New Orleans 71. 
NIT action resumes tomorrow night when TCU plap; at Nebraska, Wake Forest goes agains~ South Carolina at Greensboro, N.C., and Fresno State plays at Oregon State. 
On Friday night. .\l1ssissippi plays 
DePaul at Rosemont, Ill. 
TCU figured it was in trouble against Arizona State when high scorer Darrell Browder fouled out with 9:52 to go. Browder had 29 points and the Horned Frogs were nursing a narrow 60-59 lead. But with Browder g~>;Jt 1 h1ug ·\rnold picked up tht ·,: ., '·. illd rmish<·:.l with 26 as TCi IJUD);. <~11 tor the vic­tory. 
Byron Scott scorn! '\~tor Arizona ~tate but miss~:d the shot at the end that would have tit"d the score. 
It was to be, howevn. for DePaul, 
forced into an impromptu last­
second j5-foot shot that fell for Ken­
ny Patterson. The plan formulated 
b}· Coach Ray \lever. called for 
either Bernard Kandolph or Tyrone 
Corbin to take the final shot. 
'·But they overloaded on both of 
them," explaint·d Patterson. "So 
they threw the ball hack to me, figur­
ing the worst it would he would he a 
tie." Instead. it was a victory. 
lona Coach Pat Kennedy missed 
his team's loss to Nebraska. Kennedy 
had stayed at home Sunday when his 

Specid! Stop :->ir.Ji<.•,.·Wrist Snapp in· Red Rubber Banct: Get one free from vour American Canct>r-Society... 
I 
IAMERICAN r~­

wife gave birth to a son, and then Delaney Rudd scored 21 points, was unable to make connections for 15 in the second half, to move Wake a flight to the game Monday. Forest past Vanderbilt. He also held 
Stan Cloudy's career-high 24 Phil Cox, the Commodores' scorer, points, eight rebounds and five as­to six points. sists, beat the Gaels for the Cornhus­
kers. Fifteen points each by Mike Brit-Oregon State used a tight defense to beat New Orleans. tain and Brad )ergensen led South 
A.C. Green's 18 points led five in double figures for the winners. 
Carolina past Virginia Tech, and Mississippi scored 10 straight 
points midway through the first half 
Fresno State got 16 each from Ron 

to take control against South Florida. Carlos Clark scored 30 points and 
Anderson and Desi Barmore in

Ole Miss held Charlie Bradford, the NCAA's No. 2 scorer with a 28-point average, to just 16. beating Michigan State. 

DePaul's Walter Downing (left) and Kenny Patterson (right) sandwich Northwestern's Michaeljenkins (3) in Monday night's NIT second round game. Patterson's last-second shot beat the Wildcats, 65-63. 

.. 


The Observer Wednesday, March 23, 1983-page 10 

··" CNmpiomohlp RiedllAdam$ {1682) v. winnet ot Sttank/Pmeda v. ~Club ~'Arm)' l;)nusl!O Mict~<~Ux/Gayhartjt 
·· -~ F<!tlrigi'Qutblf\ (27NH49) 11..V8,!1derbeek/F!itiie K :ali$i:w:QUEt&ALL .. {27NWl3) · ' ..,..ct.nlploMhlp . Scllne<der {6721l)JMllla (8742) v. F\aste< 
Mike vanck!rbedi~-2163) v, Tom Sci\Jetl(283-(l780)/Hogan(180t) 
J667) · · · 8rowniEISe'Ogtuber(3261)Y. O'TOQ!&(8324)/Jones 
Summer Special Rates 



STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683-1959 

• 
VERY CLOt-;E TO CAMPUS 

• 
APPROX: 1 !. MILES NORTH US 31-33 


•GATESOPF~ALLDAYSUNDAY 

Master l~fini Warehouses 
r~-~~------------------------,
k ~ Pittsburgh Club S 1/f Easter Break Bus Sign-ups 
Jj 

~ LaFortune Little Theatre ~ I! 1, t/f Wednesday Ma.rch ~3~ 1~~3, 7/m ~ ~ 
it .;~:~-fo.~ ~,~~'-''· ~ 
Buses will leave ND/CCE and SMC/Holy.Cross: Thursday March 31,1983 at 4 pm 
Buses return from Pitt Greyhound Terminal: Monday April4, 1983 at 1 pm 
@ 48.00 round trip 
Fares 
29.00 one way 


FIRST COME, FIRST SERVED I NO REFUNDS 
Note: Meeting for anyone interested in running for ~'· .; club o~ficer follow.ing sign-ups_!'$4 $~·®~·.·. Questions call Bnan at 1743 · · 
L--~---------~---------------J 

Recent Work By: 


John Schlesinget Deb Jonns 
Isis Gallery ~ 3td Floor West: Rrt Building fJlQtCh 21-ffiarch 25 
Reception for Artists Wednesday, march 23 
.. 

8:00pm 
At Hilton Head 



Fischette impressive on spring trip 
ByMARYARN 
!,j}(Jrts Writer 
"We always seem to play our matches in spurts" says Women's Tennis coach Sharon Petro. 
For Petro's team, Spring Break consisted of a healthy spurt of five dual team matches and two in­dividual player tournaments in llil­ton Head, S.C. The team hasn't come anywhere near the thick ofits sea~on as, Easter weekend kicks off the schedule in earnest with four tough road matches. 
The Irish compiled a 2-3 record in 
Hilton Head, but Petro feels the 
numbers which were truly in· 
dicative of their performance were 
the individual set score~. 
"Our toughest losses went to 
three sets in many cases and our girls 


Corby•s Wednesday "ight Special 

Molson Hight 
$1_!90 
If you'd like to make new friends and keep in touch with them, then the PEN PAL NEWSLEITER is the WRITE way to do so! 
This newsletter will be devoted exclusively for those wishing to make new friends, and through this newsletter, your letters will be published' 
The PEN PAL NEWSLETTER will also feature a PEN PAL PUZZLE SEARCH, a PEN PAL SPOTLIGHT OF THE MONTH. and much more' 
The first issue of the PEN PAL NEWSLEITER will be published in JUNE 1983 and every month thereafter. When you subscribe, your subscription is LIFETIME and you will automatically be listed within this first issue along with others all across the country. 
Subscribe now and receive as a gift, a FREE Pen Pal Wnting Set. which mcludes a Pen Pal Pen, pencil, stationery, and a Pen Pal Folder! 
Go ahead... REACH OUT AND WRITE SOMEONE! 
NAME _______________________________________________
r-----------------------------------------------~ 
ADDRESS------------~--------------------------­
____ZIP
STATE

CITY------------­
AGE ______ 

MALE_ FEMALE_ 
MY HOBBIES ARE: 

(Enclose check or money order (or $10.00 for your LIFETIME subscription to the PEN PAL NEWSLETI1:.R and send to:) 
PEN PAL NEWSLETIER Graham-Sentral Publishing Co. P.O. Box 10307 2250 Lake Avenue/Suite 200 Fort Wayne, IN 46851 
L-~---------------------------------------------~ 
gave nothing away," commented Petro. 
c~mspicuously missing from the No. I singles and douhles spots was Sue Panther (out with a back injury) meaning that the girls were playing well in spots t one competitive level above their normal spots. 
The Irish downed George Wash­ington University, '-2, and Georgia Southern University, 5--l, on their first day on the courts. Petro was particularly pleased with the victory over GSll and considers the match indicative of the squad's overall im­provement. Last year GSL' was na­tionally ranked fourth in the AlAW, 
in  which  Notre  Dame's finbhed  
sixth.  
l'nfortunately,  the  weather  

cooled and the Irish record became equally dismaL Losses came at tht· 

ATIENTION·... STUDENTS! TEENAGERS! ... ANYONE!!! 
The new nationwide "PEN PAL NEWSLETTER" is here! 
hands of Wake Fort·st ( 5--! ), the Uni­
versity of Virginia (H-I), and Miami 
ofOhio ( 9-1 ). 
Individually, the Irbh fared much 
better. The teams divided their 
singles players into two groups, 
Flight A -:'llo. I.1 and 3 singles 
players, and Flight B -No. ·t5 and 6 singles player~. In the Flight A tournament. Mary Colligan ad­vanced to the semifinal round before losing to Miami's Anna Van Watleghem 6-2. 6-1. Pam Fischette also reached the semi-final round in the flight B tourn.tment. Fischeue's individual performance came as no surprise to Pt"t n>. 
"Pam played up to her potential, 
over and over again,'' said Petro. Fis­
chettt: tallied the lone singles vic­
tories againM Wake Forest and 
Virginia, and h>rced her opponent to 
a full three set' a~ainst Miami. Pam 
paired with .\1ary Colligan in the 
doubles tournament where they 
again advanced to the semifinal 
round. 
The next round of matches b slated for Eastt:r Break against very ~tiff t·ompetition. Petro hopes to emerge with a 2 2 record and ~pirits intact. The lri~h take on Eastern .\1ichigan and Michigan State on 
April 1, and the li>llowing morning meet tht' l nivu~itv of Michigan. Af. ter a hrief re"t. tile Irish will face an extrem~l\ important match on Mon­day, .\pril 1 .;rpinst \forehead State of .K.entuck,· . 
.. Morehead v. a" the first team from the :\1idwest to go to the NCAA Division II Nationals last year," said Petro. "This match will be a key in a bid for the Nationals in May." 
The lenni~ team faces a schedule consisting mainly ofDivision I teams this year, including a sixth-ranked Northwestern team on Wednesday, April 6. The Irish women haunt the Courtney Tennis Center behind the 
ACC 
ADULTS! 

-~ -~-­
----------------------~----------­
Ihe~rver========================================== 



~~4()l~~===========================W=e=d=n=e=s=d=ay=·=M=a=r=c==h2=3='=19=8=3====pa=g=e=l=l

-

Wednesday, March 23, 1983-page 12
S~orts 
-
Notre Dame sophomore-to-be Allan Pinkett will be sidestepping defenders again beginning this weekend . .. that is, ifMother Nature will al­low Coach Gerry Faust to open his third spring training camp. First drills are setfor Saturday af­
That time 
ofyear... 
ternoon ... for now. 

NCAA fencing 
Lack of depth ~inks Irish women 
ByMAITJOHNSON respectively, into the contest. "The competition was much !:>ports Writer Valdiserri, a returning all­stronger than last year," said American and freshman Albertson, DiNicola. "We were under pressure 
After compiling an impressive 17-who is the first Irish woman fencer from the very beginning." This year's final team standing
6 record and turning in several spar­to receive a grant-in-aid, were the marks a drop ofsix slots for the Irish,
kling performances this season, the team's mainstays, coming off good as they finished sixth overall last
Notre Dame women's fencing squad performances at the Great Lakes finished 12th in a field of 12 last meet. 
year. week at the NCAA Championships at Notre Dame's lack of depth, 
In the individual competition, Val­University Park, Pa. however, proved to be fatal. 
diserri finished 17th overall after 

Capturing the National Cham­The competition proved to be too tinishing 1Oth in the nation last year. pionship was the host school, much for the Irish women, however, Unfortunately, Valdiserri was ham­highly-touted Penn State. as they were eliminated from the na­pered by minor injuries in the finals. 
Representing the Irish were stal­tional championship draw in four wart performers Susan Valdiserri, straight matches by Temple Univer­On the bright side, Albertson's 51 Sharon DiNicola and Charlotte Al­sity, the University of Pennsylvania, victories marked the first time one 
bertson, who brought personal Barnard College and University of of the Irish have surpassd 50 vic­records of 50-13, 35-29 and 51-IO, Wisconsin. tories in one season. The natve of Gothenburg, Sweden, represents the bright future the Irish women have, as juniors DiNicola and Mary Shilts, who had surprisingly good


Irish drop two in trek 
meets at the Great Lakes, will be back to key the Irish women's at­tempt to again crack the national


to lacrosse heartland 
Top 10. 

Golfers look to season after Florida fourth 
By MIKE SULLIVAN though, because the tournament !>ports W'riter was played on three different courses which was a big disad­
Coming off one of its most im­vantage for teams from the Midwest pressive finishes in a long time and because they can't get used to a heading into its first year as a mem­course by playing on it for four ber of a conference, Coach Noel rounds." O'Sullivan's golf team is looking at a For a few bright (rather, cloudy) chance to make this its best season moments, it appeared that ever, including a possible trip to the O'Sullivan's young squad was going NCAA finals. to finish even better than it did as the 
O'Sullivan is extremely optimistic entire six-man squad of Leyes, 
about his team's future and has good O'Donovan, Pangraze, Moorman, 
reason as his golfers finished fourth Craig Peters, and captain Stoney 
in the 18-team Florida International Ferlman, toe up the course during 
Sunshine Tournament over break. the early going in the third round, 
The fourth-place tinish was the best putting the Irish into second posi­
position finish for the Irish in tion. 
O'Sullivan's ten years as golf coach. It was not meant to be, however, 
The scores were also the best ever as rain and lightning washed out the 
registered by an O'Sullivan team. round and forced Notre Dame to 
"Last year I made a statement that settle for fourth. 
I had lots of talent," says O'Sullivan, The bit of bad luck did not lessen 
"but the talent didn't jell and we had O'Sullivan's delight, however. 
an off-year. People probably thought "Finishes like this, with a couple I couldn't judge talent. of firsts and seconds -that's what "But we have those same players we're aiming for," said O'Sullivan. this year and now the talent is really The Sunshine Tournament marks showing." a good start to a season that 
In the Florida tournament, the O'Sullivan is hopeful will end in an 
player who was most responsible for appearance in the NCAA tourna­
proving O'Sul:ivan right was junior ment in june. 
Frank Leyes. The South Bend native It is Notre Dame's participation in 
posted a 54-hole total of225 ( 77, 71, a new conference, the Midwestern 
77) which earned him a tourth-place City Conference, that is the basis for finish in the medal competition of NCAA hopes. While there are no 108 players. automatic bids for conference win­
In fact, the medal winner from ners, it is an unwritten rule that con­
Boca Raton College finished only ference winners are picked for the 
three shots ahead of Leyes. If it were tournament before any non­
not for a poor double bogey-bogey­winners, no matter how much bet­
bogey finish, Leyes could have ter one team is than another. 
tinished even higher. "We've never had a chance to go Leyes' scores led a string of good to the NCAA as a team," explains Irish finishes. juniors Dave Moor­O'Sullivan. "They'd usually take the man ( 75, 78, 79 -232) and Dave Big Ten champ, the Mid-American Pangraze (79, 76, 86 -24 I ), and champ, and the best other team from freshman sensationjohn O'Donovan the Midwest. Our chances as an in­(76, 78, 82-236) combined with dependent were very slim. We'd Leyes for a 936 total, five shots be­have to finish high in every tourna­hind host Horida International. ment and that's too much to ask 
Florida Atlantic, another Florida from any team. 
team that is able to play year round, "Now we have a shot at the 
tinished first. NCAA's and, with this as motivation, 
"The Notre Dame golf program is it is an objective, not a goal, because 
on its way to being pretty decent," it's reachable. 
said O'Sullivan after the tourney. "The players realize that they're 
"We proved that on any given day no longer reaching for a star," he 
we could be competitive. continues. "We're now talented 
"Because of the good weather enough to be conference champs. 
here in South Bend, we were well­"You get the idea that, when the prepared both psychologically and talent matures and jells, it looks like physiologically. We had to be, a very bright spring." 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
For the second straight year, 
Coach Rich O'Leary led his Notre 
Dame lacrosse team directly into the 
fire, bringing it to the hotbed of the 
sport -Baltimore and Chapel Hill, 
N.C., where the season opened a few 
weeks ago -in order to launch his 
team into its third varsity season. 
As can be expected of a young 
team playing its first games against 
seasoned veterans, mistakes played a 
major role in a pair ofIrish losses ­
17-5 to Yale in Baltimore and 13-5 to Duke in Chapel Hill. 
"We knew we were going to make mistakes," said O'Leary. "Obviously it's early in the season for us and it made a difference. 
"The trip did give us an good op­portunity to recognize our weaknesses. We are improving, though, and we just need more game experience." 
The East Coast trip did allow O'Leary to get a good idea about what he could expect from the many new faces in the lineup. While their inexperience cost them a few tur­
team in scoring and also played a major role on the defensive end of the field. "We're still feeling some people out," admitted O'Leary, "but it looks like we were pretty right all along." The Irish began their annual trek East with the game against a very im­proved Yale team and it did not take long for the Elis to demonstrate why they should be an Ivy League force this year. Before the first 15-minute period was over, Yale had jumped out to a six-goal lead and had ex­tended that lead to 11-1 by halftime. Forced to play catch-up, Notre Dame played the Elis even, but not before Yale took a 14-2 lead and began going to the bench. "(Going into Break) we hoped we could beat Yale," said O'Leary, "but we didn't count on them being as good as they were. They were strong in the midfield and we weren't ready for it. We had a lot oftrouble backing up each other, so they got a lot of unassisted goals. "On offense, we just couldn't hold on to the ball. We kept throwing it away. "It just wasn't a very good game," 
Men~ tennis 

Notre Dame preps on Coast trip 
By THERON ROBERTS different players at different posi­cautious in making his determina­Sports Writer tions, particularly in the doubles tion. category." "It's hard to generalize what the 
A trip to the West Coast for Spring After winning its first seven con­season will be like on just one week 
Break? Seems like an enticing tests, Notre Dame faced San Diego of play," McMahon noted. "The 
thought. State, a perennial contender in the upcoming matches we have against 
Well, the Notre Dame men's ten­West. Midwestern teams are very impor­nis team did just that. I was not, The Irish fell to San Diego State by tant and will good ways of gauging however: just for fun. This was a a tight score of5-4. In the remaining ourselves." training trip -a time to brush up on match, Notre Dame, showing the ef­McMahon, sophomores Mike Gib­the finer points the game in a. com-, fects of fatigue, were upended by bons and john Novatny, and fresh­petitive setting. Minnesota, 7-2. man joe Nelligan expect to fill four 
"The match with San Diego State of the top six singles seeds for the 
Women'S tennis wasa tough loss," said senior captain rest of the season. The other players 
Mark McMahon. "But, we gave it a in the two singles and the three
-page 10 

tremendous effort. Coming out of doubles positions will be continual· 
The Irish men emerged from their the week with a record of 7-2 ly rotated until individuals settle in trip with a record of 7-2, playing exceeded our expectations." their positions. nine matches in nine days. Wins came in matches against Idzik thinks that the Irish have 
Coach Tom Fallon was pleased Claremont ( 6-3 ), Pomona (7-2), Cal what it takes to be a good team. that each member of his squad took State-Los Angeles (7-2), Pierce (7­advantage of the opportunity to get 2 ), Whittier ( 6-3 ), Redlands (5-4), "The team members are in­in a lot of playing time. He was also and UC-San Diego (5-3). terested in each other," says Idzik. happy with the success the Irish The match with Point Lorna was "We all work hard, as evidenced by 
enjoyed. rained out. last week.".. "They played well, especially "I think this is the strongest team novers and mistakes, the new O'Leary admitted. "We were just 
players also gave their coach some never in it." reason to be optimistic about the There was some silver lining be-
considering the short time we've we've had in three years," said The men's tennis team is season. 
had to practice," Fallon said. "I had a senior Pau!Idzik. scheduled to face Western Michigan See HEART, page 8 
chance to look at combinations of Captain McMahon is a little today at Kalamazoo. 
In both games, newcomers led the 
·"
It L_ 
--~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 






