.------------~--~--~~~-------~---------------~---------------~-------------------------.. 
• • • Fun in the sun -page 5 


By TOM MOWLE 
StaffReporter 
The Student Union was renamed 
the "Student Government Activities 
Board" by a 12-4 vote at last night's 
student senate meeting. 
The primary effect of the change according to Student Body Presi­dent Lloyd Burke, will be to give the Senate more control over the stu­dent government budget. "As it is," he said, "not one elected ofilcial is responsible for the usc offunds" be­cause "appointees affect half the budget, while elected officials have little control over how money is spent." 
The purpose of the constitutional amendment, Student Body Treasurer John Eichenlaub said, is "to change the negative connotation that student government and the Student Union have on this campus as 'do-nothing' groups." The amend­ment's sponsor, Pat Borchers, ex­ecutive coordinator of the student government, said its "thrust is to more fully integrate the Student Uni­on with student government." 
Student Union Director Steve Strake said he no longer is in favor of the change because it would "only 
Official discusses human rights 
Editor's note: Theresa Tull, direc­tor oftbe Office ofHuman Rights at the U.S. State Department, delivered a lecture at Saint Mary's College last week. Observer News Editor Tim Vercellotti interviewed Tull prior to the lecture. 

Theresa Tull 
Q: When did you join the State Department, and what is your cur­rentposition there? 
A: I entered the department in August 1963. I am now the director of the Office of Human Rights, and that is one of three offices in the Bureau of Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs. The office that 
head monitors human rights developments around the world. 
Q: How are human rights developments monitored? 
A: It is an ongoing process. There is information coming in daily. The first and most important source of information is the foreign service of­ficers at the embassies. We also meet in the bureau with foreign officials as they come through, and with op­ponents of the various regimes. We try to deal with the ins and the outs. And we receive a variety of informa­
tion from non-governmental groups, international organizations that are assessing certain elements of human rights in various countries. We read that• information. We do not always agree with it, but we try to take it into account. 
Q: For what purposes do you use this information? 
A: We keep track of what is happening to determine what ac­tions, if any, the United States could or should take with regard to alleviating a particular problem. And then, of course, there's an ongoing process of reviewing the human rights situation when it comes to 
making foreign assistance decisions. 
Q: What steps would the U.S. take in addressing particularproblems? 
A: We look into individual cases around the world to stop people from being abused. That's really private; it is not something you read about on a daily basis in the newspapers because this administra­tion prefers to use traditional diplomacy where it is possible. Where it isn't possible, we use whatever we think might work, such as public statements or aid cutoffs. 
First, you try to exhaust the diplomatic means. 
Q: Is that a significant change from the approach ofthe Carter Ad­ministration? 
A: It is a distinct tactical difference between the two administrations. I've worked under both of them in this field. This (the Reagan) ad­minstration has as a conscious policy the preference to use the traditional diplomatic means. 'Quiet diplomacy' it has sometimes been called. Now, the Carter Administra­tion used that too, but there was more of a public statement as well, particularly in dealing with friendly countries. This (the Reagan) ad­ministration feels that if you're trying to persuade a friend to stop a poor practice, it is better to do it in private than by hitting them in public with a press statement and denunciations. If it doesn't work, then we use what we think might work in a given situation. And that might require public statement, even about our friends. 
Student Senate 
Student Union renamed 
McBrien promotes ND as Catholic institution 
Q: You mentioned earlier that your office uses human rights as­sessments to make decisions on as­sistance. A few weeks ago, the State Department announced that it 
would re-certify El Salvador as having madeprogress in the area of human rights. There were objec­tions from independent groups over this announcement. Do you stand by the decision? 
A: Absolutely, that wasn't even a 
difficult decision. Not this time. see Q&A, page 4 
cause confusion." Eichenlaub stated the name change would actually decrease c·onfusion in the students' minds by stating "the purpose ofthe board" in its name. 
Another effect of the name change, noted Student Body Vice­President-elect Peggy Prevoznik, will be to "increase the visibility of Student Government." Brian Callag­han, Student Body President-elect, agreed "most people do not see the connection between the Student Union and student government," but with the change, "student government would carry more weight and would show influence." 
Senior Class President Mark Mai argued there "now is no relationship except for the budget." Eichenlaub stated the Student Union and Stu­dent Senate are "not supposed to be 
By POLLY HUDAK 
News Staff 
"Notre Dame is probably as Cath­olic a university as you could find in this country," says Father Richard McBrien, chairman of Notre Dame's theology department. He goes on to explain what "Catholic" means in terms of his recent publication, Cat­holicism, and what it· means in today's society. 
"Sacramentality, mediation and communion" are the fundamental ideals incorporated by McBrien in his book and in the opening pages of the PACE (Priorities and Commit­ments for Excellence) Report. In or­der to maintain its Catholic identity, the authors of PACE stress that the University must envision God in all things,"working through persons, events and material objects." 
The PACE Report also states that 
Naturalist reflects on trip with Thoreau 
By HOLLY ANN HINSHAW 
News Staff 
Ah! The Old West: freedom, individual survival. Edward Abbey, naturalist and modern cowboy, developed these themes in his essay "Down the River with Henry Thoreau" last night as part ofthe Soph­omore Literary Festival series. 
Abbey reflects on his trip down the river as "loafing." He calls us 
the " luckiest of nations," in contrast with the rest of the world's nation's, which are either starving or fighting. 
Abbey also says that survival is difficult in our " expanded empire of industrialization." He feels we cannot manage with dwindling resources. He used Thoreau's idea of having one inhabitant per square mile as the ultimate solu­tion to the resource probem. 
Through his down-to-earth humor, Abbey presented a message concerning our "overdeveloped" nation -a na­tion where no great man has been produced since the killing of the great Indian leaders in the nineteenth century, he said. 

two separate entities." Borchers noted the two were "conceived as more of a single body" and the change would "'increase the impact of the Student Body President." 
The amendments passed at the meeting must be approved by two­thirds ofthe Hall Presidents' Council and two-third~ of the Hall Councils before entl:'ring the constitution. 
Other amendments passed by the Senate restructured the Steering Committee, which sets the budget for all Student Union activities and set one duty of the Student Body Treasurer and clarified the defini­
tions ·  of  "petition"  and  
"referendum."  
The  first  of these  two amend­ 

ments places the Student Body see SENATE, page 4 
the ideal Catholic relationship with God "is communal, not individualis­
tic." 
McBrien locates the role of Cat­holicism in education as an open-mindedness to all areas of in­quiry which leads us to truth. He . notes that the principle ofsacramen­tality is "God is present in all crea­tion, so the more we know about creation, the more we know about God." Therefore, McBrien con­cludes, Notre Dame should promote those disciplines which provide sub­stantial resources and competence in the inquiry into truth. 

"A good Catholic university has to have more than a liberal arts col· lege," McBrien maintains, though he believes the arts and letters program should be the core ofthe university. 
The Catholic university has to be a place where scientific inquiry is en­couraged as we're always looking to find the causal connection among things, and ultimately, the causal connection between all things with God." This is the basis for McBrien's second principle of mediation. 
At Notre Dame, McBrien believes adequate attention is given to the science and other departments. He feels, however, that "legitimate question can be raised as to whether or not the college ofarts and letters has the kind of prominence it ought to have." McBrien adds that this is not his original thought, but one shared by many at the University. 
"Community" is the third charac­teristic of Catholicism discussed in the PACE Report. McBrien as­sociates this final concept with the family-type relationship he believes Notre Dame inspires among stu­dents, faculty and alumni. He describes it as "the type of atmos­phere wherein if something goes wrong, there's a sort of pulling to­gether which you wouldn't find at any other unversity." 
Father David Tyson, executive as­sistant to the president and assistant 
see THEOLOGY, page 4 
school.  Unfortunately,  many  people  at  my  school  
resented the honest reports  
I presented on flagrant class  
cutting  and  faculty  
romances. And my opinions  
on  the ecology club  were  
also taken quite otfensively.  
Not  only  did  I  learn  a  
valuable  lesson  in  respon­ 
sible  journalism.  hut  also  
one on  job insecurity  - I  
w:L~ forthri).!ht replaced ;':0  •  
mousy-looking girl. De!<pite this minor  set·  /.:-·  
back,  my  incerest  in  jour­ 
nalism  burned  brightly  
inside of me.  I managed to  
live through high school, en­ 
roll at Notre Dame and join  
The Obseroer staff-or vica­ 
versa. I've enjoyed my time  
here, but never more so than  


..-------~-~--~-~---------­

ewsBrief§ 
By The Obseroer and The Associated Press 
Notre Dame's Theology Department 
has planned a series of Lenten Prayer Services for Theology majors. These services will take place on Tuesday evenings at I 0 p.m. in the Farley Hall Chapel. Professor Ellen Weaver, assistant chairman ofthe Theology Department, will conduct the first ofthe series tonight. On succeeding Tuesdays the services will be conducted by the follow­ing members of the Theology faculty: March 1, ProfessorJosephine Ford; March 8, Professor Catherine LaCugna; March 22, Professor Elena Malits; and March 29, Professor Eileen Kearney. Interested members ofthe Notre Dame community are cordially invited to join the Theology majors in the Prayer Services. -The Obseroer 
The recently revised Canon Law code will 
be the topic ofa lecture by FatherJames H. Provost, executive direc­tor of the Canon Law Society of America and associate professor of Canon Law at Catholic University of America, Thursday at 8 p.m. in the auditorium of Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education. Provost, a priest ofthe Helena, Montana, diocese, has written several popular and scholarly articles on Canon Law for a number of jour­nals, including America and The jurist. Father Provost's lecture is sponsored by the Theology Departmem at Notre Dame. -The Ob­
seroer 
After One year of the Reagan administration's war on drugs, the government's own figures show that on U.S. streets heroin and cocaine are slightly more plentiful, cheaper and purer, and marijuana prices have remained stable. Top-level officials of the Drug Enforcement Administration acknowledge there was no decline in the overall availability and consumption of illegal drugs in the United St01tes in 1982. Acting DEA administrator Francis Mullen conceded in a recent interview that the effort hao;ically protltu.:nl a dr~.w in the battle with traffickers during it~ first year. But he remains contident that the addition of more than 1,000 new agents and prosecutor!> this year will produce a detectable reduction in the problem. Gary Liming, assistant DEA administrator for intelligence, said, "Drug traffickers paid a higher price to operate in 1982, but we haven't hurt them bad enough for them to make major changes. They've just made adjustments so far, but that day will come." -AP 
Gov. George Wallace . hospitalized yesterday in Montomery, Alabama, complaining of stomach pain:s, probably will remain there most ofthe week, an aide said. Press secretary BillyJoe Camp said Wallace's appointments were canceled through tomor­row and he was expected to remain hospitalized "probably the majority ofthe week." Wallace, 6 3, was admitted toJackson Hospital shortly after midnight complaining of stomach pains. Dr. Hamilton Hutchinon said Wallace was suffering from a stubborn intestinal virus. but his condition was not believed serious. Preliminary tests showed Wallace has "a slight inflammation to the left colon area," but further tests were scheduled to make sure there is no intestinal blockage, Camp said. -AP 
The murder offemale babies, a frequent practice long ago in rural areas, is .on the rise again in China, where the government prohibits more than one child per family. China's new family policy-aimed at keeping the population under 1.2 billion in the year 2000 -is enforced by fines as high as $2,000 for an extra child. Although no government statistics on infanticide are available, the official press is filled with grisly tales ofthe killing ofhundreds of girls by parents determined to have a son. Sons work i.n the fields, take care oftheir parents in old age, inherit property and bring wives home to work. Daughters cost money to feed, need dowries and arc married off into other men's families. Girl babies are drowned, strangled, tossed down public toilets and left to die in the wilder­ness, according to the news reports, which say some local authori­ties "look the other way" ifa little girl toddles off, trips into a well or dies ofexposure. -AP 
When OwnerS Of the $1 million homes in a Beaver Creek, Colorado hideaway snuggle up in front of their fireplaces, a computer that has their phone numbers will be watching. and waiting. As soon as the valley air is choked with too much wood smoke, a little red light will go on in each home. If homeowners don't let the blazes die, polite telepone calls will tell each one not to throw any more logs on the fire. "We expect some grumbling, but not much," said Cliff Simonton, environmental coordinator for Vail Associates, the company that is developing this once-empty valley eight miles from Vail into a posh resort with homes that sell for as much as S3 million. "We believe that air quality is an important feature here and that it is cost-effective to preserve it," he said. -AP 
Preliminary soil tests in this dioxin-tainted town show the toxic chemical is present in some areas at 300 parts per billion, nearly three times higher than levels reported earlier this year, a federal survey map shows. But a member of a cleanup task force said yesterday the test results shown on the Environmental Protection Agency map are only "raw data" and might not be ac­curate. The EPA map, copied by an NBC television cameraman, shows at least nine blocks ofTimes Beach contaminated with dioxin at levels up to 300 parts per billion, compared to the 12 7 parb per billion shown by earlier tests. The new tests were taken after tlood· ing i~ December made the town almost uninhabitable. -AP 
Considerable cloudiness and mild Tuesday. High mid 50s. Mostly cloudy Tuesday night. Low in upper 30s. Partly cloudy and cooler Wednesday. High mid 40s -.-tP 
Tuesday, February 22, 1983 -page 2 
A headline-making career 
I grew up reading newspapers. One of my earliest memories memories -when I was four -is of fum­bling through the classified ads in The San Francisco Chronicle. I figured that any page with so many letters had to be important. It didn't matter, since I couldn't read anyway. 
Once I went to school, I not only learned to read, but also eventually became involved in "student jour­nalism," a fascination of mine that to this day seems never ending. One of my earliest efforts was to write about events at my high school for the local paper, The Santa Cruz Sentinat. My editor, who became a close friend of mine, told me that most articles written by students were dull and that I should make mine dif­ferent. I did. 
The Sunday following my first meeting with him, 30,000 subscribers to The Santa Cruz Sentinal were were treated to my first "inside story," a look inside my 
la.~t week when Features Editor joe Musumeci and myself attended a week-long journalism conference in Miami, Florida. 
"Miami!" t people exclaimed, "you're just going there to get a tan'" My delicate skin aside, I would have felt better telling people we were going to Toledo. However, we didn't let such jealous comments phase us. 
The seminar dealt with how to package and edit a newspaper for the eighties. Since we have no journalsm school here at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's funneling talent into The Observer, we're always looking for sources ofprofessional advice. This we found in Miami. And once Joe and myself get done regurgitating all we learned from the statt: I hope you will notice some changes for the better in the paper. 
The seminar was not only a success t<>r The Observer, but also a personal one. You see, for some time the prospect oflife after Notre Dame has been on my mind. 
The Observer 
~ 

.' 
Happy Birthdt~l' George! 
Design Editor. small Geor!(e Washington Design Assistant .......... Neely John Adam' Layout Staff...... .... a couple: ofwhigs T_ypesetter.'\ ....... Klng (,eorgc Mal:Lcnnan, Molly Pitcher's rahhit News Editor......... Thoma.,Jdfcrson liar rington 
Copy Editor.......................... ..John Jay May B&T Lavout ........ Alex Hamilton Konrady Editorials Lavout. ... Abhy Adam, Brown Sports Copy liditor ... Aaron Burr Sullivan NO Day Editor.................... Dolly Madison SMC Day Editor ......................... Ahhy again Typists ......... ....James Madison O'Connor Ad Design....... Martha Washington Larkin Photographer....John Marshall Niemeyer GuestAppearancesfrancis Scott Key and her star-spangled cymhab, Count Dzi!ve Pul"'ki, Joe 'Ben franklin' Mu,umeci, El Paso Sal, Betsy Ros. Hinshaw. Henry 
Knox Szilva.,, The Birthday Mowle 
The Ob11erver 1USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacatton penods The Observer ts publtshed by the sludents of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col· lege Subscnpttons may be purchased for $25 per year t$t0> pPr serne~ter) by wnttng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
The Observer ,s a member ol The Associated Press All repiOrJucllon · nghts dre re-;erved Second class postage patd at 1\Jotfe Dame lncltana 45556 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
PRESENTS 
SPRING BREAK INDAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 11 -20, /983 
Arrtu~r~m~nlt by ECHO TRII YEL. INC. 
!tfCUll1JF 
N.D. SIXP£RROOM TRIP INCLUDES 
• 
Round tnp motorcoach lran•ponat.on v.a modern hisJlway coachei to Daytona Beach, Aond.alcaVlnl Fnda). March II. 

• 
Seven mghts accommodauons at the exciting Plaza Hotel of


$185 
Daytona Beach LocateJ at600North Atlantic Ave .• II 11 the most demanded hotel on t~ Jltip at th.lttime 
• A truly great schedule of &ct1Vi11es includm& our famous pool deck partie~ and belly flop contett. 
FOUR PER ROOM • OptJOnal excursions available 10 Di1ncy World, Epcot, and Jevcral other attraction•. 
• 
Numerous bar and restaurant discount•. 

• 
The services of fullume tr.o.vcl rcprc~ntattvea


$199 
• 
All taxes and gratu1UCS. 

• 
Guaranteed kit~;benctte or occanlront avatlahle at r.roall addtttonal charge. (4 per room only) 


A QUALITY TRIP-A LOWPRICE-A GREAT TIME 
The: Plan Hotel, located nght m the middle of the r.tnp, 11 dcftnttcly the place to be durin& ~pong break Asll. anyone who has been to Daytona The hotc:l has a pool, btl party deck, rc"auranc. four bars. color TV, atrcondmoned rooms and plemy ofacuvitin. P1ctura arc a\atlablc where you stgn up Our motor coaches art nothmg butthe tughe!t qualuyhtabway coaches Y.. e al~o s•vc you more extrn wtth our mp than anyone el.e. Don't blow 11 and ao on it lower \jUaht) tnp LAST YEAR OYER B,IHHJPEOPI.E ENJOYED THIS TRIP. 
SIGN l'P NOW AT THE . TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE MON.-FRI. 10 AM-4 PM OR CALL 239-5213 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor 
Inside Tuesday 
The advantage ofbeing an arts and letters student is that you can do almost anything you want with your degree. Unfortunately, this often times is "nothing." l thought to myself that when those letters from the alumni office swoop like vultures into my mailbox, I want to have something to feed them. 
Thus I began to question my original plans ofa life in journalism. I was tempted by the scheming world of advertising, and I cast glances at the facades of public relations. I was wavering until last week. 
The seminar was held at the headquarters for Knight­Ridder Newspapers. They are one of the largest chains ofpapers in the country, and unlike the more well known Gannet, which raped it~ papers of assets to start up the breezy l!SA TodaJ'. Knight-Rid<..!cr b knn1~11 for il-., so1it..1 jnll!n;tii:'\nl ,u1d ,.,.. ,_:t"ll..:r.l ir.tiniii~. 
During the week I il;nl the plcasurt· of working with some very talented people. Most were edttors from papers in towns like Detroit, Philadelphia, Boulder. Ak­ron and Tallahassee. What impressed me most during the day at the seminar and 
through the night at "Johnny Raft·a·s Lobo Lounge." was not just these individuals' capacity for beer. It was their dedication. Most of them could double their salaries by quitting journalism and getting a job in some other in­dustry. Because they don't doesn't make them martyrs. but it does mean they are selfish. Self1sh enough to work at a job they really enjoy. 
Of course a career in newspapers ensures neither moral sainthood nor absolute peace-of-mind, but it is a good example of how personal happiness can take preference over what is the bottom line for many people -money. Why should you put time in at a job you don't like, when you can make your working hours your richest? Last week convinced me to go with my feelings; l hope all ofyou are able to go with yours. 
A tina! note on the newspaper industry. Despite the closing of a few large papers, overall it is a healthy in· dust!)'. Profits are up. and with the decline ofautos and steel, it has become this countl)''s largest employer. Also. research shows that newspapers will remain a major medium into the next century. 
The Observer 
Commencement Weekend housing 
Students must demand extension 
By MARY EILEEN KENNEY  mittee has maued brochures to the  received an accurate account of the  
News Staff  parents  of prospective graduates.  number of undergraduates who re­ 
The brochures state the guidelines  quire  accommodations  tor  the  
With  commencement  weekend  ·for  securing  housing  and  meal  weekend.  
only 82 days away, the Commence­ service for May 1.3, 1-t, and 1 S only.  Lombardo expects ci,OOO parents  
ment Accommodations Committee  The  housing  and  meal  option  is  and guests to reside on campus and  
is urging all undergraduate students  available to all parents and guests of  participate in  the commencement  
who wish to remain on campus that  the prospective graduates and all re­ activities this year. The Commence­ 
weekend to request written permis­ quests will  be handled  on  a  first­ ment Accommodations Committee  
sion by March -t.  come,  first-served  basis.  The  has published a tentative schedule of  
To qualify for extended housing,  requests must be received from the  events for the weekend which in­ 
students must be a member ofan or-.  parents of prospective graduates by  clude: a lawn concert performed by  
ganization  connected  with  com­ April22.  the  university  concert  band,  Phi  
mencement  weekend  or  have  a  The  Commencement  Accom­ Beta  Kappa  installation,  the  Bac­ 
brother, sister, or fiance( e) who is  modations  Committee  will  be  calaureate Mass, a cocktail party and  
graduating.  unable  to  honor  requests  for  buffet supper,  and  a  concert  per­ 
According to Peter ]. Lombardo,  housing  and  meal  services  for  formed by the University of Notre  
conference coordinator  the  com- parents  and  guests  until  it  has  Dame Glee Club.  

Hindu/Catholic speaks 
Christians urged to be ecumenical 
Tuesday, February 22, 1983 -page 3 

By PATRICK MULLEN 
News Staff 
"If Christianity wants to be taken seriously in the world, it has to take other religions seriously." This was the message ofRaimundo Panikkar, a Catholic priest, Hindu mystic, and prolific author, speaking yesterday on "Christianity: Challenges From Asia." 
Panikkar is one of the world's leading experts on "cross-cultural religion", philosophy, and economic and political systems. He holds doc­torates in science, philosophy, and theology; has taught at Harvard, Mysore, and Benares (India); and is presently teaching at the University ofCalifornia. 
The son of a Hindu father and Catholic mother. Panikkar is a man well-versed in the different religions and philosophies of the world. His 
Raimunda Panikkar 
lecture centered on the importance of the Western and Eastern cultures developing a a mutual understand­ing ofeach other's religions. He em­phasized that the Western world needs to come to the realization that "the Christian concept is far from bei t ng universal." 

Christians are convinced that only their religion holds the ultimate truth, said Panikkar. He said that Christians should understand that Christianity is based on Western culture and on Western understand­ing and is therefore not applicable to all cultures. He noted that Christians have tried to proselytize for cen­turies by establishing colonies and missions in the non-Western world, but have had little success because 
..................................................
~· 
Roc.co's Hair · 
i]styling 
531 N~ Michigan St., 
South Bend 
Phone 233-4957
&1..................................................1; 
non-Westerners cannot accept a religion which has no basis in their culture. "Christianity," Panikkar said, "existed and still exists as a foreign body in the East." 
Pannikkar said that Easterners would have little difficulty accept­ing Christianity if Christians abandoned their "triumphalistic" ideas of their religion and culture and conformed their views with those of the rest of the world. 
Panikkar spoke of the necessity of establishing a "pluralism" in the world through which all cultures would come to the realization that their religion was not the only way to the ultimate truth. Once different cultures accept other religions, they accept other cultures, said Panikkar. 
"One cannot take a culture seriously if one does not take its religion seriously." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Theology Department, the Economics Department, and the O'Neill Chair in Education for justice. 
'Snow Week' continues despite spring weather 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mary's Executir•e liditor 
Planners of the first annual "Snow Week" Festival at Saint Mary's _were expecting a little help from Old Man Winter, but he did not cooperate. Nevertheless, Senior Class President Beth Bunker insists en­thusiasm for the festival hasn't melted away. 
"I think it's going to be even better because of the weather," said 
Bunker. We might have to change the name to 'Snow/Spring' Week, 
but we encourage eve·ryone to come out and enjoy themselves." 
Today marks the opening of the "Snow Week" Festival at Saint 
Mary's, sponsored by the Senior Class. 
The festival events will remain the same, regardless of the recent 
spring-like weather. 
"Snow Week" activities will take place daily, through Friday. 
An ice cream social will be held tonight from 10:30 p.m. to mid­
night in the LeMans Lobby. Cost will be 25 cents per scoop. 
Tomorrow the singing group "Trinity" will perform in Stapleton 
Lounge from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. Cost is 25 cents and refreshments will 
be served after the performance. 
Thursday's activity, ice skating at the South Bend Park District rink 
on jefferson Boulevard, was scheduled for 4 p.m. This event will be 
cancelled unless winter weather reappears. 
"Snow Week" closes Friday with a Happy Hour at Rafferty's On the 
Race, 401 E. Colfax Ave., from 4 p.m. to 6:.30 p.m. 
ELECTRO-OPTICS 
beginning at the University of Dayton 
August 24, 1983 
• 
A master of science program for electrical engineers and physicists 

• 
A one year, 30 semester hour program 

• 
Research assistantships available 

• 
Program also open to selected persons in chemistry and applied mathematics 


Contact Electro-Optics, Kettering Laboratories 262, University of Dayton, Dayton, Ohio 45469, (513) 229-2241. 
i + 
The University gfDayton 
Israeli soldiers stand around theirjeep on the Beirnt-Damascus highway in Lebanon as they waitfor bulldozers to clear the road for an Israeli army convoy. A blizzardstruck the mountainseast of Beirnt andfroze 34 motorists to death while stranding many more on the mountain section ofthe highway. (AP Photo) 

The Observer Tuesday, February 22, 1983-page 4 

• • . Theology 
their perceptions of the mission's 
·. 
A scientific satellite for X-ray obseroation in outer space is launched Sunday from Uchinoura, japan, after a four-day postponement. {AP Photo) 
6.000WAYS 
WE HELPSTUDENTS 
GO TO COLLEGE. 


Army ROTC has more than 6,000 four-. three-, and two-year scholarships in effect at any given time. And each year, hundreds are available for which your students can compete. 
Scholarships cover tuition books, and lab fees. and pay students a living allowance of up to $1000 for each aca­demic year the scholarships art in effect. 
Our four-year scholar­ships may be used at 303 col­leges and universities across the countrv. Three-and two-
year scholarships may be used 
at more than 700 additional 
institutions. Schools where 
students can earn both a com­
mission and a college degree. 
So ifyou'd like to see more 
of your students headed for 
college, show them the way. 
. ARMYROTC. 
BEALLYOU CAN BE. 
CALL: 
.. 
CAPTAIN GREGORY A. CANNATA PHONE 239-6264/6265 
(P.J td for by Ar.ny ROTC) 
·\.___ 
·-------~~~·----------~--------------~· 
continuedfrom page I 
professor of management. elaborates further on tht· cotKept of community at Notre Dame. The basic element which he believes keeps the university family together is a unique tradition ofcontinuity. 
Tyson refers to the source of this continuity as Notre Dame's "mis~ion statement," or collection of ideab and goals which distinguish the Un­versity as a leading Catholic institu­tion. According to a case study conducted by Tyson several years ago, Notre Dame's mission state· ment is. built into the University's heritage so that all who experience Notre Dame become aware of the Catholic ideals it defines. 
"There is little apparent dif­ference among students, faculty and administrators in their knowledge of the university mission, as well as 
impact," Tyson concludes in his study. 
In what ways do individuals become most aware of Notre Dame's Catholic message? 
Tyson offers an interesting supplement to the efforts of the theology department. 
"Knowledge of the University's mission statement is frequently at· tained in an informal and tacit fas­hion," he claims. 
By "an informal and tacit fashion," Tyson means that members of the Notre Dame community come to know the mtsston statement through such basic campus com­ponents as the buildings, liturgies, 1 figure-heads and various university symbols. 
"Even the ringing of Sacred Heart's bells conveys the message," Tyson notes as he reflects on the powerful tradition which continual­ly touches the growing community of Notre Dame. 
In summarizing his ideas, Tyson describes the unique continuity as "an A1 example of organizational saga." 
Professor Jay Dolan, director of the center for the study ofAmerican Catholicism, acknowledges the fact that Notre Dame supports a unique Catholic community. Nevertheless, he feels that since Vatican II, Cat­holicism has been redefined. Conse­quently, the modern Catholic university needs to continually reevaluate its ideals. 
·'Thirty or t1fty years ago, 'Catholic' could be defined in more concrete terms," Dolan explains. "Since Vatican II, the ideals Cat­holicism represents no longer are so clear; there is much more question­ing." 
Dolan believes that in ..:stablishing 
its hest Catholic identity, Notre Dame should "concentrate less on the definition of Catholic and mort· on what i~ Christian behavior. Then what is truly Catholi<.· will come narurally." 
In evaluating the areas through which Notre Dame might improve its Catholic identity, McBrien offers some fundamental suggestions. The expansion of the theology depart­ment to accomodate more faculty would be a valuable improvement, McBrien reasons, as it would provide the opportuniy for wider selection of theology courses to stu­dents. McBrien feels that the two semester theology requirement is sufficient with respect to present faculty resources. 
McBrien and the rest of the theol­ogy department, however, feel that "three semesters of undergraduate 
theologv woulrl he itl~al. for it 
continuedfrom page I 
Thete have been very measurable improvements in the past six months in the situation in El Sal­vador. 
The certification document that you refer to addressed four areas that Congress requires be addressed: reforms in the economic and agricultural situation, move­ment toward popular participation in government, control over the armed forces and efforts to end 
human rights abuses. In addition, we 
looked into the question ofthe mur· 
ders of the various American 
citizens, and the progress of bring­
ing suspects to triaL 
But looking at what the situation 
continuedfrom page I 
President, Vice-President, and Treasurer on the Steering Commit­tee, while removing one Student Union commissioner. This way, the Senate gains more control over the budget process. The addition of the Vice-President was advocated by Mai, as the Vice-President currently has no well-det1ned duties. This amendment passed 14-0. 
The other amendment calls for the Student Body Treasurer to chair the Budget Committee. This amend­

<C :a 
Q :1> 
<C 3: <C 2 Tuesday; February 22 :1> c 
a: -An Experience You'll Never Forget-:1> 
<C :a 
Q It's M*A*S*H* :1> 
<C 3: 
2 :1> 
<C NITE c 
a: :1> 
at Daniel's Den Lounge
<C :a 
Q ......................... :1> 
<C 3: :E Assorted gifts and cash prizes for the most :1> <C original MASH uniforms -c a: :1> 
75¢ glass of beer; $3.00 a pitcher plus all your other favorite drinks 
<C :a 
Q Dance to the fantastic sound of "the Phoenix 
:1> 
Band" from 9:30 to 2:00AM NO COVER CHARGE 
<C 3: 
2 
<C
a: 
VOVWVt;l. .'· .• ,.,..,VOVINV~. 
.·.-· -~ ... _.• _.. '"···-··,··~ ·····•· ··or.--~ • .:.-':·•·-·~-.~ J... 
:1> 
c 
:1> .. . .: VOV.WVl:t 
.---·: ..... ~, . ·-· ,. ·.~· .. • : 
would give the student the l'hance 
to specialize more." 
McBrien emphasizes the: relative· ly large responsibility of the theol· ogy tkpartment at Notre Dame. noting that it include~ the under· graduate program, till' masters program, as well as a large doctorate program. McBrien says "we might express our Catholicism even more dramatically" if the theology depart­ment had ib own building on 
campus and even some day was a separate school of theology and pas­wral ministry to truly demonstrate the importance of theology on campus. 
Additional areas on McBrien's list of improvements for Notre Dame's Catholic identity are fairer treat­ment of clerical staff and the con­tinued recognization of women's rights. 
• • • Q&A 
was six months ago, and what the situation was at the end ofJanuary of this year, we saw definite, clear-cut improvements in land reform ­
some slow, too slow, and some ef­forts at having better control of the armed forces -a very, very clear decline in the number of politically-
motivated civilian deaths. By the same token, the report we sub· mitted on this did not try to say everything is perfection. We had 40 
pages that said that there are a lot of human rights problems remaining, but on balance, we thought there had been enough improvement to justify moving ahead. 
• • • Senate 
ment passed 12-1, as did one which makes changes Borchers said "only I would notice": the term "initiative" 
was  changed  to  "petition"  and  
"referendum"  was  changed  to  
"initiative."  

In other matters, the Senate recommended that "at least one stu­dent member" be added to six Uni­versity committees, and that each member be appointed by the Stu­dent Body President and approved by the Senate. Four ofthese commit­tees currently have student mem· hers, but none are appointed by the Student Body President. This resolu· tion passed 12-1; Burke noted, "if the Campus Life Council also ap­proves the measure, then Vice­President of Student Affairs Father John Van Wolvlear must take ac­tion." 
The Senate unanimously advoca­ted the creation of a student-operated FM rock station. 
In addition, Joseph Heller, author ofCatch-22, is being considered as a speaker for later this year. 

STUDENT DISCOUNT 
of""' e~~.b 
S -+.S cf 'T 
o~'~ ~~"'~ 
20°/o OFF 
Good Mon · Thurs onlv 
STUDENT DISCOUNT w/Student I.D . Offer not valid with any 
other Aurelio's special discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 

The Observer Tuesday, February 22, 1983 -page 5 
--------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Fun in the February sun 


The quads are alive with action as the warm weather continues. It seemed like everyone "blew off' yesterdar afternoon to enjoythe beautifu sunshine. Even a wayward puppy (below), who has been temporanly adopted by some Walsh residents, got into the act. And luckily, there's no end in sight, as today's forecast calls for continued mild tem­peratures. 

.... 
Photos by Lucian Niemeyer 
Business & Technology Tuesday, February 22, 1983-page 6 
MarketingUpdate 
(.~neral Motors Corp. is conceding that the Japanese are better at building small cars by joining with Toyota Motor Corp. to produce a subcompact in California, industry analysts say. The move also will teach GM, the world's largest automaker, howJapanese profitably build small cars with few quality problems, and how they manage their plants, analysts said. The deal indicates to the public "GM has gone out and selected Toyota and is saying 'Hey world, Toyota builds a great car, we want to sell your product,"' said Mar;rann Keller, analyst at Paine Webber, Mitchell Hutchins & Co. in New York. During the past several years, the Japanese have earned a reputation for making profitable, good quality subcompacts, while U.S. automakers have had difficulty recouping their expenses on their small _cars. -The Observer · 
EconomicUpdate 
Six Persian Gulf oil-producing nations 
facing a possibile worldwide price war called an emergency meeting for yesterday. A Saudi newspaper said they planned rollbacks ofup to 57 a barrel. The state-run Saudi Press Agency said ministers at the Saudi-led Gulf Coordination Council would meet in Riyadh to dis­cuss "current trends in the petroleum market" because of price reductions by Nigeria, Britain and Norway. A price war would benefit gasoline consumers in the United States because each S l · drop in the price of a barrel of crude oil represents a two and a half-cent drop at the pump. But major reductions in prices would hurt Third World oil producers, which rely on petrolem sales to pay off their foreign debts to Western banks. Nigeria, whose oil minister is current chairman of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, broke with OPEC polir.y Sunday, ann<'"lOcing a 55.50 price cut to $30 a barrel. That announcement came after Britain and Norway, non-OPEC producers, dropped prices to $30.50 a barrel for North Sea crude, Nigeria's main competitor in the European oil market -AP 
-Science Update 
Earthquake monitoring equipment in 
the crater of Mount St. Helens. shows that the lava dome is still build­ing, but scientists say the weather has been too cloudy for them to see for themselves. Instruments shows the relatively quiet, dome­building eruption that began Feb. 7 is continuing, said Chris Trisler at the University of Washington geophysics center in Seattle. Since an apparent weak steam burst Wednesday, seismographs have indi­cated only low-level earthquakes and occasional rockfalls from the dome. which was about 700 feet high before the latest eruption, she said. Tuesday was the last time U.S. Geological Survey crews were able to enter the crater and confirm that the eruption was continu­ing. In each eruption ofMount St. Helens, she added, t seismic activity is monitored to show the to~al energy released by the volcano and a graph is made of the resulting figures. In the current episode the energy release has been greater than in past dome-building erup­tions, she said. -AP 

, 
. 
Ir----------------,
at ffiacri's Deli II 75 cent Heine ken Night I I Tues. Feb 22 6pm -close I
I*If you don't like Heineken, Don't come. I 
I (located behind Jeremiah Sweeney's) ..II 

Bruno's original family pizza 
ttClw Second Location North on US 31, less than 1 1/2 mi. from N.D. 
FREE delivClrY to campus Mon.-Thurs. 7:00pm and 10:00 pm Order before 6:30 for the 7:00 delivery Order before 9:30 for the 10:00 delivery 
Please call 2 7 7-4519 
$1,037,448 for month 
ND research grants announced 


More than 90 percent of the Sl,037,448 in grants to the Univer­sity of Notre Dame during January went toward research. The 
5987,912 awarded for research in­cludes: 
• 
5169,641 from the Union Carbide Corp. for research on the erosion of dual-phase microstructures by Dr. Thomas Kosel, assistant professor of metal­lurgical engineering. 

•SI47,102 
from the National Science Foundation for the study of structured models for biological waste treatment systems by Dr. Robert Irvine, associate professor of civil engineering; Dr. Charles Kupla, associate professor of microbiology; and Dr. Eduardo Wolf, associate professor ofchemical engineering. 

• 
S127,921 from the National In­stitutes of Health for studies of the intermediary metabolism of intes­tinal worms by Dr. Howard Saz, professor ofbiology. 

• 
S86,736 from the Environmen­tal Protection Agency for research on the effect ofspeciation on the be­havior of metal ions by Dr. Thomas Theis, associate professor of civil engineering. 

• 
$76,060 from the U.S. Air Force for the study of vortex loop dynamics and turbulent boundary layer struc,ture by Dr. Stephen Batill, associate professor, and Dr. Thomas Doligalski, assistant professor, both in aerospace and mechanical engineering. 

• 
570,957 from the National In-' stitutes of Health for research on the ecology of vectors of Jamestown Canyon Virus by Dr. Paul Grimstad, assistant professor ofbiology. 

• 
S59,744 from the Environmen­tal Protection Agency for infrared studies of tluid-solid systems by Dr. Eduardo Woll; associate professor of chemical engine .ering. 

• 
S52,0 l 0 from the National In­stitutes of Health for research on II­


glycolipd biosynthesis in lymphomas by Dr. Subhash Basu, as­sociate professor of chemistry and Manju Hasu, assistant faculty ft:Jlow. 
• SSO,OOO from the Bowyer Foundation for research in the Lobund Laboratory and microbiol­ogy department by Dr. Morris Pol­lard, director of the Lobund Lab. 
Dr. Thomas H. Kosel Dr. Morris Pollard Dr. Thomas L. Theis 

Dr. Charles F. Kulpa Dr. Robert L. Irvine Dr. Paul R. Grimstad 

Dr. Eduardo Wolf Dr. Stephan Batill Dr. Thomas L. Doligalski 
Quasar's energy holds mystery for scientists 
Editor's Note: This is part one ofa What ifyou could look all the way two part story' dealing u•ith out -all the way to the last thing quasars. Part one is an introduc­observable? Is there such a limit' Is 
tion to quasars and their energy. there a boundary in space where there are no more physical objects anywhere? Astronomers are
By FRANK GABRIELE 
considering this question and some
B&T Ref)()rfer 
believe the answer to be yes. 
Take a second and look out some Cal Tech astronomer \1aarten nearby window at the sky. Think Schmidt and colleagues Don about what you're doing -you're Schnieder of Cal Tech and James looking right off the earth's surface Gunn of Princeton have peered far into space. With the aid of a tele-into space and have fount d that their scope, you might see the moons of prime targets of interest, quasars, do Jupiter, the rings of Saturn, or even not seem to appear beyond a certain beyond, depending upon the distance. strength of your scope and the Quasars (short for quasi-stellar clarity ofthe sky. objects) are relatively new 




==============================phenomena in the study of the 
'Killer'adspromote military purchasing 
NEW YORK ( AP) -The ad shows a sleek multimillion dollar fighter plane, outtltted with missiles, waiting in a hangar. The sales pitch reads, "While others get older, Eagles get better." 
The advertisement for McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s f-1 '\fighter is one of several placed in newspapers, magazines and scholarly journals by arms builders in a growing battle to intluence political and military leaders, according to industry oftl­cials and analysts. 
"It's symptomatic of the times," Raytheon Corp.'s Van Stevens said of the proliferation ofads. 
Once such ads were seen only in a few military journals. Now, several American arms builders regularly advertise planes and warships in major papers such as The New York Times and Washington Post, and in popular news magazines, such as Newsweek and Time. Foreign Af­fairs Quarter~y, read around the world as a guide to lJ.S. policy, recently had an ad for Grumman's Hawkeye early warning plane. 
Advertisements for weapon!> dif­
fer little in approach from those for 
cars or washing machines. With 
vivid pictures and catchy slogans, 
they promise efficiency, satisfaction 
and prestige. 
"It's really like buying a car," said a 
defense analyst who asked not to be 
identified. "Ifsomeone is looking for 
an anti-tank gun he's going to look at 
those ads for whatever catches his 
eye." 
An official ofAviation Week, who asked not to he identified, said a plan for a missile can run to thousands of pages ofcomplex technical detail. A vivid ad can have more impact on some ofthe legislators and senior of­ficers who select arms, he said. 
Several large defense companies declined to comment on how much they spend on advertising. But a single-page ad in a trade periodical such as Aviation Week costs more than 57,000, according to business manager William Cockren. A full­page ad in a major U.S. newspaper can cost 540,000, several company officials said. 
cosmos, having been first identified just twenty years ago (by Schmidt 
•and others) as bluish, starlike ob­jects at the fantastic distances of 12 billion light years and more. Being visible at such great distances implies that quasars produce an equaHy fantastic amount of energy (about the equivalent of 10 trillion ofour suns), but the biggest surprise is their relatively small size, much 
less than that ofan average galaxy. 
This astronomical paradox ofsize 
and energy has led astrophysicists to 
the conclusion that at the heart of 
some of the most distant quasars lie 
black holes, the mystical remnants 
of millions or billions of stars that 
have collapsed together into virtual 
nothingness, leaving behind only 
their immense gravity and tremen­
dous internal energy. While the 
majority (more than 90 percent l of 
quasars are classified as visually in­
active, it is the distant, visually active 
ones (those with black holes) which 
are creating the most excitement. 
How, exactly, do black holes go 
about supplying all of this energy to 
quasars? No one knows. In fact, 
quasars do not all behave in the same 
way and can be as diverse in charac­
ter as clouds are in shape. 
But what makes quasars so interesting is that they are on the outreach -the most distant thing man knows of. 
-,~--------------------~ 
Editorials 
Tuesday, February 22, 1983 -page 7 
Recent bishops' letter addresses war and peace 
This past weekend, the U.S. bishops' ad hoc committee on war and peace met to revise the second draft of the Proposed Pastoral Letter on War, Armaments and Peace. Father Richard Warner CSC, Superior of the Indiana Province of the Holy Cross Fathers, is an appointed member of the committee and attended this meeting. In light ofa recent conversation with Warner, the following editorial presents a background of information out of which the final version will emerge. 
Kimberlee M. Curnyn 
Guest Columnist 
The nuclear arms race has thrust the world into an age of crisis. During this crucial time, the possibility ofnuclear war threatens the ex­istence of life on our planet. In an address to scientists and scholars, Pope John Paul II stressed that, "from now on it is only through a conscious choice and through a deliberate policy that humanity can survive." 
In an effort to facilitate such decisions, the bishops ofthe United States have convened in order to present the moral and religious resources ofthe Catholic tradition. Due to ap­pear in its final draft in June of this year, the bishops' "theology of peace" is set forward in a pastoral letter to the church's community of believers. Already acknowledged by the European bishops as a courageous move, the pastoral letter has gained international atten­tion. 
Drawing upon biblical studies, systematic, and moral theology, ecclesiology, and the ex­perience and insights of members of the Church "who have struggled in various ways to make and keep the peace in this often violent age," the bishops have presented a 
"fresh reappraisal" ofthe war and peace issue. These reflections have served to establish the conceptual framework of the letter's peace theology. 
About to undergo its third revision, the pas­toral letter now stands more as an invitation to continue the new reappraisal of war and peace than a final synthesis of such an ap­praisal. One must commend the bishops for this desperately needed "invitation." For in matters of nuclear threat, the bishops are applying the teachings ofJesus Christ to issues that have never before been faced by the human race. Indeed, the bishops' letter on the challenge of peace cannot offer any "proven" 
answers. 
In an effort to openly debate and delineate their ideas on a peace theology, the bishops have been engaged in an international range 
ofdialogue. As a result, the bishops' European counterparts have all convened to discuss their views on the nuclear issue relative to their individual country's situation. Such dis­cussion recently culminated in an episcopal conference including representatives from the United States, England, France, Germany, and Wales. The movement to increased religious and secular dialogue, as catalyzed by the early drafts ofthe bishops' letter, was most recently joined by the Church of England. An increased openness to international interac­tion and discussion may prove to be a monumental contribution from the United States bishops to the establishment ofpeace. 
Although the fundamental elements of the peace stance are almost always accepted in such dialogue, the method of employment ol these principles has not been fully agreed upon. The existing second draft of the letter which condemns targeting of nuclear weapons or their installation near populated 
centers has not been supported by the French or West German clergy. It has been criticized as undermining the West's deterrent capability. The Reagan administration has also used this point to criticize the letter which states deterrence is acceptable only if it is used, "as an instrument to work towards sin­cere and verifiable negotiations." 
This and other questions concerning the 
weak points ofthe second draft continue to be raised. For example: Is there not more validity to the Catholic just war theory than implied in the present letter? Does the West have the right and duty to defend its citizens because of its moral superiority (human rights, free elec­tions, rule of law)? Cardinal Bernadin of Chicago claims that the final version will address distinctions between the political sys­tems of the United States and Soviet Union as well as expanding upon the "just war" theory. 
In addition, Warner predicted that other topics to be addressed and more clearly resolved during this past weekend would in­clude: a more in-depth Scriptural analysis of both Old and New Testaments, a more clearly delineated argument of the deterrence issue and the bishops' conclusion, as well as a series ofpeaceful alternatives and pastoral practices that would educate and involve the lay com­munity. 
There can be no doubt that each step towards a final version of the pastoral letter serves to increase the effectiveness of such a letter as well as initiating a series of dialogue that has international ramifications. Yet, it is also important to note that along with the bis­hops' struggle to establish a "theology of peace" comes a renewed appreciation of the Catholic tradition and respect for the role it is to play in the future. 
P.O. Box Q  
morals" on others. When human life is the countries? Anyone who has been abroad can issue, what distinction should there be made attest to this. Already Mr. S t nyder has chosenChallenge? among the morals of men? All men must his red-white-and-blue-toned spectacles with recognize and preserve the sanctity of which to scrutinize life and culture in London. Dear Editor: human life -all human life. If my pro-life On to "far more weighty matters," to coin a I am writing this letter in response to the stance suggests I am unjustly inflicting my phrase from the article. In his analysis of the .editorial entitled. "The challenge to be pro­morals on others, should not then the author socio-political climate in England, Mr. Snyderchoice," which contained several contradic­decry our laws themselves likewise as the chooses to presume that "class mobility," tions. imposition of someone else's "judgments of "privileged economic status," and "politicalThe author asserts. "our concern should good conduct onto other members of freedom" are universal variables. be for the qualitv and potential ofafl:lrmative society"' The pro-lifers need not justify their The fact that we in the U.S. arc nurtured on life." Indeed. as responsible social in­argument for. such individuals who fail to these values does not imply that others-­dividuals we should seek to advance the recognize that abortion is killing. including our European ancestors--were as quality of human life. This, however, does Contradictions and distorted values were well. There is a sense that Mr. Snyder takes a not grant us the right nor the ability to pass not the only foibles of this pro-choice condescending stance towards the British judgment on the quality of another in­editorial. The author also revealed his or her culture for their inability to live up to dividual's life. How ironic it is that the ignorance of the pro-life movement in American standards. author should lament the life of a fetus general. Anyone familiar with the activities Does he really believe that. given the op­shown to have "fetal deformities or brain of the anti-abortion movement would portunity, most Britons would prefer to live in damage" in the same editorial wherein he or realize that pro-lifers do not fail to be the U.S.? If he indeed believes that the value she states. "to deny this fetus a right to life "sensitive to the problems of unwanted weas Amercans place on economic and politi­implies the idea that an abnormal life is use­pregnancies." Contrarily, their numerous as­cal freedom is almighty and ultimate, then he less." The author's self-contradiction is sistance programs reflect respect and sen­has been whipped into a national superioritymanifest. sitivity for the lives of both mother and complexA similar paradox is evinced in the child. The value and dignity of human life is The way in which U.S. culture operationallyproposition that "we should seek to limit not arbitrarily granted to any select group. defines "greatness" is not the be-ali. end-all to family size" for those who cannot pay the One should "openly consider pro-choice greatness. Alternative criteria do exist; but emotional or financial "cost" of children. arguments." And if he can resist the appeal of how many of us can--or even care to--quantifyHow does the author reconcile making such their subliminal selfishness, he will see that the smiles and kind words of the people a judgment with "reproductive freedom" it is indeed no "challenge" to be pro-choice.and the ideals ofour "democratic pluralistic Rather, it is a comfortable and convenient society"' Even in our society freedom has its rationalization. limitations. One's right to swing his fist ends Teresa Dono1•an where another man's nose begins. to quote the well-known epithet. Ifone justifies abor­tion .tS "a means of not undesirablv altering Disturbing view one's total way of life," how does he dismiss that life which has been terminated' DearEditor: This brings about the basic issue -the I write this comment as an expression ofmy existence ofabortion as the killing ofhuman immediate and somewhat disturbed reaction life. In light of this factor, life itself, con­to Robert Lloyd Snyder's editorial of February siderations of "economic distresses," I 5, "America: Land of Beauty and Advantage." "vocational objectives," and the "view ofthe Without further apology. I would like to chal­optimal number of children" reflect rather lenge not only the "greatness" of the United distorted and certainly selfish priorities. States of America but also the political One cannot merelv shrug off the fundamen­mindset which fosters such a nationalistic tal question of life to advocate the socio­belief. economic advantages and personal " .. .it starts off with minor items" is a claim convenience ofaho;tion. with which I am not unfamiliar. Yes, there are At this point ""'fame Withheld" would many little "pleasures" in this country, but are probably protest that I am "imposing my there not also small joys unique to other ci,­-' ~ =~­_, --· ----­... ___.,._  around us? Perhaps I should mention that I have never been to London, England, or even Europe. Nevertheless, it is my concern that illiberality of the mind extends beyond "minor items" ("cheap gasoline," "cheap hamburgers," and Kentucky Fried Chicken, for example); beyond even Mr. Snyder's "far more weighty matters" such as "class structure" and "political freedom"; and irito the realm of in­terpersonal, intercultural, and international communication. It is only by becoming aware of our own value system, then questioning it, and finally setting it aside in order to be open (and yes. vulnerable) that we can make a sincere effort to communicate with other individuals, cultures, and nations. I suspect that Mr. Snyder's commentary retlects a worldview not unique and noncon­formist, but quite common, acceptable, and even respected in this country. The conse­quences ofsuch a nationalistic outlook in the late twentieth century are disturbing, for the narrow mind is the ultimate obstruction to global peace. Laura Nitsos Saint Mary's '83 ~0, ..~t:S OUR BE~T CUSTOI'\ER­~EOWES US BILLIONS. . =  


Editorial Board Department Manage~s 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executi1•e News Editor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
the ~licie~ of the administration of eit'ter institution. The news is reported as ac­
!;MCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objet·ti\·ely as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems 1Hanager ........................... Bruce Oakley
the views oftlteir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ...................... ... joe Musumeci
and the free expression ofvarying opinionson pmpus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ........................ ........Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219)239-5303 
~-~~--~~....--..-----.~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
I
Sports·=/=J=r=i:e:J.:.S===============T=u=e=sd=ay=,=Fe=b::;ru=ary=2=2=,t=9=B3===p=ag=e=s
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hold a meeting tonight in St. Ed's Chapel at 8 p.m. All are invited. -The Observer 
Any remaining participants in the men's un­dergrad and men's grad singles racquetball tournaments should call the NVA office at 239-6100 to report results and keep the tourna­ment moving. -The Observer 
Tomorrow is the deadline for registration for 
two interhall tournaments. The open racquetball tournament, open to anyone on campus -students, faculty, and staff-will be a single elimination tournament, best ofthree games, one round per week. A wrestling tournament also will be held-the weight classes arc 123, 130, 137, 145, 152, 160, 167, 177, and unlimited. Halls may sign up as teams. Call 239-6100 or srop by C-2 of the ACC to register for either ofthese tournaments before tomorrow. -The Obsen•er 
Windsurfer class starts today for Free University, at 7:30p.m., 105 O'Shaughnessy. At that time, a time and place will be set for a simulator session and a $5 fee will he collected for supplies. Any questions, call WIND at 1582. -The Observer 
Prospective cheerleaders take note. There will be an organizational meeting for those interested in trying.out for the 1983-84 squad on Tuesday, March 1, at 7:00p.m. at Rathskellar. 
-The Observer 
The Notre D31Ile Rowing Club will hold a mandatory meeting tonight in the LaFortune Little Theater for all those members interested in going to Austin over break. A $30 deposit will be collected and raffle tickets will be distributed. The meeting will begin at 9:00. If you have any questions, call Tom at 277-1705.-The Observer 
The Notre D31IleJudo Club competed in the 
Milwaukee Open and Purdue Invitational over the past two weekends. Coached by four-time National Champion Charles Hooks, Mark Peffen got third place andJim O'Loughlin took fourth in Milwaukee. The same two players both finished in first place at Purdue this past weekend.The team practices Sunday at 2:00 and Wednesday at 7:00p.m. in the Rock. New members are welcome and wrestlers are especially encouraged. Call Mark at 861 0 for addi­tional information. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club will hold its first 
meeting of the spring semester tomorrow night at 6:30 in 204 O'Shaughnessy. New members are welcomed. -The Observer 
The Ultimate Frisbee Club will be practicing 
behind Jake Kline field, wether permitting. The practices will run from 3:30 to S:30 Monday through Friday. New members are welcome. -The Observer 
Driver Bruce Jacobi, injured at Daytona lnterna· 
tiona! Speedway last week, was breathing with help of a respirator yesterday and not responding to treatment, a hospital spokesman said. Jacobi, who is from Speedway, Ind., has been in critical but stable condition at Halifax Hospital since last Thursday, when he suffered a head injury in a violent crash while trying to qualify for Sunday's Daytona 500 stock car race. "He is not responding at this time and his prognosis is not good," said hospital spokesman Jay Sweeney. "We do not anticipate an improvement in that condition in the near future." Jacobi, 47, suffered a bruised brain stem when his· car flipped wildly through the muddy infield grass Thursday. In a release issued Saturday, doctors said they are waiting for swelling and bleeding around Jacobi's brain to subside. At that point, they said, they hope the driver will show some response to outside stimuli. Meanwhile, driver Darrell Waltrip was released from Halifax at 8:30 a.m. yesterday after being kept overnight for observation. Waltrip was shaken up when his car spun into an infield wall during the 63rd lap ofthe Daytona 500. -AP 
Connors gets his sixth Indoor title 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) -At the age of .30. Jimmy Connors could be sitting back and resting on his ac· complishments. Instead, he's looking forward to new challenges and more championships. 
"My time isn't up," Connors said after destroying Gene Mayer "'-S, 6·0 Sunday to capture a record sixth U.S. National Indoor Tennis Champion· ships. "I'd like to play about three more years. I'm not going to stay out there and play poorly." 
Playing poorly is something Con. nors admits he never has done since becoming a professional in 1971. 
"I don't ever play poorly," he said. "I play well all the time .... and sometimes I play great." 
It took the world's top-ranked player and the tournament's No. 1 seed only one hour, 1 1 minutes to destroy Mayer, who is ranked ninth in the world and was seeded third in this 64-draw field. Connors zoomed through the second set in just 23 minutes, losing only nine of the 35 points. 
In one stretch, after Mayer had gained the advantage in the second game of the second set, Connors ripped off the next 12 points and l 5 of the next 16. 
"You don't get multiple chances against Jimmy," Mayer said, "and when he's hitting well it just doubles your problems. You're under so much pressure against him anyway." 
The Observer w1il accept class1fieds Mon­day through Fnday. tO a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. class1fieds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to insertiOn All class1fieds must be prepaid. 
e1ther in person or through the mail. 
,Classifieds 
LOST MENS N 0 RING. '84 BLUE RIDE NEEDED TO ALBANY NEW YORK NED IV NED IV NEO IV NED IV Ride needed. GREAT BOOKS..GREAT MINDS·­STONE. FULL NAME ON INSIDE LOST FOR SPRING BREAK..·CAN LEAVE Are you com1ng back from or lhrough AI· MEET FACULTY AND STUDENTS OF
Ill-_NO_T_IC_ES______J ON TOWER QUAD CALL JOHN 8212 ANYTIME WILL SHARE USUAL CALL lanta after spnng break? THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUOIES CHRIS AT 3510 OR 8573 ANYTIME ... ED MANIER'S 9:30 Darw1n and Freud Are you com1ng back early. say, on MONDAY FEB 28. 6:30 PM.. GRACE and h1s 1.15 Technology and SoCiety Fnday. March t 8? PIT
LOST.opal nng w/ lh1n gold band b/1 
townhouses and brown son on sat, 19th. Need RIDE to CLEVELAND lh1s classes WILL NOT MEET on Tuesday. I need a nde, I hen. Got lo take GMAT'sITYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
Feb. 22. 
Call Jeb at 864 t. Thanks
Great sen11mental value PLEASE CALL weekend. Call Jack 1 588 OONT WORRY, MARGARET-WE'RE 
CINDY 771 1 1f you found 11
I 
Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car, Friday NOT INTERESTED IN CHILDREN noon til Monday noon 529.95 Includes BEAUTIFUL RUSSIAN NEEDS' AAlOE ANYMOREI Gretchen,
Lost: TOTAMPA AREA FOR SPRING BREAK 
tSO tree miles. Sales tax & Insurance TODAY IS THE DAY! ALL FARLEY RYANDJOEi Gym's Jim shorts... er... uh... Jim's WILL SHARE USUAL CALL JANNA AT Have a Happy Birthday !II Remember 
extra. Phone Rob for reservations 25~ WOMEN' VOTE FOR KELLY
lo celebrate LIKE HELL!!! 
Gym shorts. Gray shorts w/ black and 6746. PLEASE HELP!!!
8459. FITZGERALD for PRESIDENT LAURIE HELP' NEED RIDE TO WEST PALMYour B1g Bro.
whrte stnpes down the srde Lost between MERITT lor VICE·PAESIOENT Make FOR BREAK' CALL JAY at 1404The o·Siepan and Sianford. (Honest) Please NEW JERSEY RIDE NEEDEO TO
TYPING FARLEY lhe BEST! Ded1cailon Deter­PLEASE! 
call Gym... er uh. JIM at 8641 ThanK NORTH/CENTRAL NJ FOR SPRING Look out Loyola....here comes SPOTIIIJack1e Boggs minatiOn Enlhus1asm VOTE TODAY!!!I 
you. BREAK. PLEASE CALL KATHY 7906. 
684·8793 
TOM MURPHY AND SUZANNE: WAS NEW HOURS FOR CENTER FOR SO· "REO" FUN? FOUND Cas1o sc1enl1flc calculalor. fx·58. Milwaukee Need A1de lh1s weekend Call 
CIAL CONCERNS Monday thruHELPI HELPI HELP! I need a nde lo M1l·tn engtneenng audttonum Call Kevtn at EDalt068 
3201. late mghl H1 Jayne. h1 Matt. lhiS IS Surplus ,eeps, cars and trucks avatlable. Thursday .. 8 AM· 11 30 PM. Fnday .. 8 HUMPY THE CAT 1S alive and well and
waukee lh1s weekend. If you re g01ng my
Many sell tor under $200 Call 312·742· AM -10 PM. Salurday .. 2 PM · 5 PM hvtng 1n Chtcago
way. please g1ve Ju11e a call at 3882free! Need lwo ndes lo Long Island area for
f 143 Ext. 7316 for InformatiOn on how to Sunday-· 6 PM-tO PM 
Spnng Break. Can leave any11me. Call Ann al SMC 4287 or Maureen al SMC WANT TO BE OF ·SERVICE TO So hang already ! 
purcnase Ga1l· 
·I 
Introducing the latest lad: HUMPY THE CAT hairdosTYPING WANTED 277·8534 6· 10 PM M· 4273 OTHERS? Come lo lhe Center for Soc1al Lloyd 
F. ALL DAY WKNDS Concerns on THURSDAY. FEBRUARY
To I he guy who was weanng a BLUE AND 
FOR RENT 
Need a nde for 21o lheCh1cago Suburb of 
24. 6 30 PM to hear Edw1na Gately. foun· TO THE DANCING MACHINES OF RESUMES -ProfeSSIOnally prepared 
Glenv1ew for Feb 25·27 W1ll share ex· der of the VOLUNTARY MISSIONARYGREEN STRIPED 0 P JACKET al Flan· GRACE HALL GRACE IS A TOWER.IT
ner on Saturday, why d1dn ·1 you 1n1roduce
232·6362. penses Call Kathleen 4365 (SMC) MOVEMENT, a lay movemenl lor HOUSES ALL MEN IT'S TO House:4 bedroom. near ND. $290 per mo. 
mtsstonary work rn the Church
yourself? 
THREE. TWO AND ELEVEN.THIS NOTE Grand Canyon Summer Jobs Employers Fail or summer No ullliiles. Phone (319) 
WE 00 PEN WITH THESE GREAT DAN· To my Favonle Rock Slar, To celebrate
RecrUiting Now. Complete Detalls·$2.00 322·8735. Patty Kat1e My compliments to the chef CERS WE HAVE LOTS OF FUN. GOOO 
your birthday How about some pas·
Wnte. Canyon. Box 30444 Tucson. AZ Thanks for the wonderful brunch FRIENOS ARE QUITE RARE. WE'RE
_I FOR SALE 
sronate, ammahstrc 1ovemak1ng unt1l allAPTS NEAR NO FOR RENT UTILS PD85751 
GLAD WE HAVE SOME LOVE.Ihe three LESS GAS PH 2720261 
hours of I he morntng? orphans lrom LEWIS ND · SMC SKIERS Col. M1ke. Sm1ggs.
for sale 1977 BMW 3201.LUXUS Hey Va . Jyar bulyful·wllh love, Ph1l 
John. & Ruth Nahonal Qualifiers '83 lnsh 
ALISON SAYS. Pub·closed? B1111ards ...Sk1 TeamPACKAGE.FLORIDA CAR.GREAT 
I ONLY EAT FISH ON FRIDAYS!' Mom Check out lh1s cab1n!. Fred Its
SHAPE,$6,800 Call283· 1 166 TO THE MEN OF 210 Loose L1ps S1nk 
P S. 
!\LOST/FOUND I I Sh1ps. Babooll!!!ll THANKS FOR THE
WANTED 
the rad1a1or 84 mph. Beer Galekeeper& 
IT'S LENT YOU KNOW Just eal. sleep, and sk1 .. Kenl FOR SALE Marantz model 1 030 30W PHONE 
slereo amp Marantz 1 10 tuner Sony PS Stale Sauna 1n the Mens room .. Cry ol
CLASS NAME CHRIS, (lhree·
j LCST NO RING(83), L...------------' CATHY AND CARRIE.
·LX2 aulomallc, direct·dnve lurnlable w/ lhe Banchee ntce b1nd1ngs M1ke. W811. 
fourths of lhe Russ,an quad)l can llhank li-;,,JDE. BLUE STOME. LOST POSSIB· NORTH JERSEY. RIDE NEEDED for Spikehead Ryan sez thiS IS my last race! Hten at Stanton cartndge Advent 9 two·way 
you guys enough (so whats th1S?) lr L A r SMC(MOREAU-0 LAUGHLIN break Can leave 3/1 t One·way only "Like. I'm headed oH lo the most gnarly spkrs PHONE 8929 
top .Chug!. E M.l. B1b Stroh at bol· Fnday Was I sur~r1sed? A ta1r question-·H-,LLI. LAST SEEN OVER WEEKENO W1ll share usual Please call JOYCE beach. you know, and like everybody tom .Chug! Get some cardboard Star 
yes' I should have guessed whe11 you ac· OF 1/28-t/30. BIG REWARO $$$OF· x6778 who's anybody knows whal a senouslySTEREO EQUIPMENT Hassle free hl·fl 
Trek Thanks for everything, and mak1ng tually cleaned the 1oom• Thanks··! love FERED. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO lubular beach lh1s IS, like om1god. I can't my last race the best!! Yours '" snow 
1 delivered qu1ckly nghl 10 your door you guvs more than ute 1tself (not my hte·­PLEASE CALL 283·3346 need RIDERS 10 COLOMBUS,OHIO wa•t to see the dolphtns and catch some 
Protess•onal consultation and Jnstallatton! 
Woody but sofTleone s I'm suren from 2/24 to 2/27 call ANDRE x7449 bogus curlers. you know. and like Peer
Avatlable at spec1al dtscount pnces for 
Patnc1a I LOST MY LAUNDRY IN THE SOUTH records too, oh what a groovy smedly Yes, we're back from Miami and we're PS-To those who 11elped celebrate··vou students at ND/SMC SAVE $$$·call J.B 
al283·8286
C.NING HALL..·IF YOU FINO THEM NEED RIDE TO CHGO AREA THIS FRI knockoul sp1kehead surf punk lime. fer better than ever! The Ry and hla effer· mdde rt esoe~1ally spec.1al p·_EASE CALL BRENDAN AT 7997 FORDEPAULGAME 1684or1266/7. sure, ler sure like lets go tor some vescent traveUng companion are back ANYTIME..J HAVENT CHANGED MY cokes. yo~ know in town and accepting aall manner ot 
8FTH LOEBEL! BETH LOEBEL! BETH UNDER WEAR IN FOUR DAYS!!!! Need nde loTaledo 1eav1ng early Fn. Call bribes, favors and Illicit favors. Yo" 
LOEI:IF.• hapP.y B1rthday, Happy Dave at 3675 ATIENTION WOMEN OF ND/SMC
LTICKETS 
know where to find ua .•. Come and B1rttld~y 1-iapp'!' B1rth11av!! Have a wud To the person who removed my blue Or· Today marl<s the 20th B~rtllday of OWEN getuafll 
one . .,c.\,.nan• TOOdle~. Marv game Chemtstry noteoook from the South NEED RIDE TO SARASOTA AREA FOR "CHOQ-CHOO" MURRAY. lhal party The returned boat people/journalist 01mng Hall on Fnday. Feb. 11 between t SPRING BREAK' WILL SHARE USUAL Need DePaul llckets w1ll pay $$$ call antmal from Ph1lly W1ll he meet up w1th >ypes 
Thank you to· !he t:owers & t 30pm. I would apprec1a1e 11s 1m· CALL MARY 2179 Mark 8919 ELKA tontght or stmply down a taw med1a1e return. I'll be glad to let you Mr· orange whtps? Greet htm wtth hugs and 
TIM I WANT VQLJR 6 row 1t some 11me when I don t need 1t! My HELP NEED RIDE TO NYC/LONG IS· NEED 3 DAYTON TICKETS ..JULIE 3725 k•ss~s •n J47 Cavanauq)'l or g1ve hrm a Don 1 worry Joan. Tom's NOr really gay! name and number IS on 1t so call rne! LAND FOR SPRING BRt:AK LEAVE call al Xt522 -
Goou LUCio! to MAR 10. MARK316 ......,. Farley WOMEN I(ELLY I'ITZGERAI.[J & lAURIE MERITT Founo: Girl's watch outs1de North 01mng CAROLYN WHAT A SUPER SIS' Don't forgello choose lhe best 
vou'rtJ lh~ BEST and Hall on lhe t 6th. Call2905 Surfs up 1n So. California Onv1ng to THANX FOR THE N 0 EXPERIENCE! 
WERE All bo-t'IINC Y')U!!I Cahtorma tor spnnq break'J I could use a XOMARIE 
LOST PAIR OF SILVER fRAMED lift G1ve M1ke a call al x1688 Thanks. Tracy· you sp1kehead you'
.1 PERSONA'i] 
GLASSES IN PLASTIC BROWN CASE Good Luck MaryBeth and Maureen!'! 
JOt:t!iAZ-
THE CASE WAS FALLING APART AND Nee1 nda to Virglma 101 sonnQ nreai< W1ll aosron Were behind you all I he way' We know 
A !FOR FRIDAY) NOTHING AT ND 'Tt)£> sun IS our, and sn r~. my Ch•·':i· IS HELD TOGETHER B'l A. PIECE OF share usua1. Please call Ang•e at 1284 'leed Me to Boslon on Fri or Sat March you II ao a goaat tob• Love. The ::.ect1on· MARY & LISA 
thea~­SILVER DUCT TAPE. !F ;:ouND 2~ or 26 !Thai's the weekend after spnng P S FARLt:Y DON'T FORGET TO VOTE 
those ;emme~ who are ,, tne ~enow about 
PLEASE CALL PHIL AT e295. R1ders needed to N Y C. lor br'3a.k Call bre•~ Willmg to share cost et al Call Jeb TODAY"' WACKOWSKI McGII.LIS lOr '0 A CLOSE FRifND PLEASE RARE 
such thi'1gs can centact Gwseppe in 'he DESPERAELYNEEOED!!!!!I!!!!!!!I!! Kart x3t 13 at ~G4 1 -hanks 'Iall r're>. ano VY YOURSELF TO US MARY & LISA 
OH1ce 
The Observer Win two out of three 
Swinttners finish dual meets. 
By THERON ROBERTS 
\ports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming team closed out it:-. dual meet season by losing a thriller at Bradley on Saturday after eeking out victories against Illinois-Chicago and North­ern Illinois on Friday. 
The Irish swimmers came 
through the weekend with a pair of 
wins and one loss in their quest to 
prepare for the Midwest Invitation­
al, which begin \1arch ~ in Chicago. 
The team swept a "double dual" meet with Northern Illinois and Illinois-Chicago. beating Northern 62-5I and whipping t:IC, 80-33. 
The meet against Northern Il­linois came down to the last relay, but the 400-yard freestyle relay team of Glenn Battle, Greg Bohdan, Dan Carey and AI Harding escaped with a victory, six-tenths ofa second faster ·than the Huskies' team. 
"It was a real pressure battle for us at Northern Illinois," said Irish coach Dennis Stark. "They keyed on this meet and were up for us, and be­cause ofthat they swam well. 
"Glenn had a good split and got an 
early lead for us in the relay. After 
that we just held on for the win." 
Battle also swam well in his in­
dividual races. He won-the 200-yard 
backstroke in both meets and 
captured a first place in the 200-yard 
l.M. against Chicago. 
Paul McGowan also had three in­dividual firsts in the two meets. He took first place in the one-meter diving against the Flames and was victorious in the three-meter diving on both occasions. Dan Flynn tallied a pair of first-place finishes in the 200-yard butterfly, while Blaise Har­ding won the 200-yard breaststroke both times. 
Tim Bohdan ( I 000-yard free) and AI Harding ( I 00-yard free) were also winners against Chicago. Bill Green won the 50-yard free against the Huskies. 
The action was just as exciting at 
Bradley, but the outcome was not 
the same. However, the same type of 
circumstances determined the 
result. 
Notre Dame lost the medley relay by just one-tenth of a second to the Braves. That proved to be the mar­gin, although the rest of the meet was equally close. 
"Bradky was prelty tough, but we weren't that far out of it," Stark said. In addition, Stark pointed to out­standing individual performances by Blaise Harding and Brian Casey. 
Harding was a double winner for the Irish, placing first in the 200­yard l.M. and the 200-yard breaststroke. His time of 2:16.4 was only three-tenths ofa second off the varsity record, his best time while at Notre Dame. 
Casey won the 200-yard butterfly with a time of I :56.8, an all-time per­sonal best. 
The 400-yard freestyle relay team of Battle, Greg Bohdan, Carey and AI Harding also won, making it a sweep for all three meets in that event. 
"These three meets were a good way to set up for the Midwest (Tournament)," said senior Lou Bowersox. "The combination of confidence in winning and excite­ment in the closeness of the meets was good preparation." 
The men's swimming team con­cluded its dual meet season with a record of9-4, and next competes in the Midwest Invitational March 3, 4 and 5. 

continuedfrom page 12 
what awed by Notre Dame's strength and aggressiveness," said Rupert. "We were more emotionally tired from playing the three games in four days. 
"We weren't tired physically but we were just stale emotionally." 
Tonight Notre Dame's opponent will be Hofstra. The Flying Dutchmen arrive at the ACC with a record of I7-6 -good enough for first place in the East Coast Con­ference. 
Third-year Hofstra coach Dick Berg's squad is led by forward David Taylor. The 6-8 senior is scoring I 7.1 points a game and is the team rebounding leader averaging 9.3 rebounds a game. Taylor leads the ECC in blocked shots with 56, and his scoring, 59 percent field goal percentage and rebounding totals all 
are good for second place in the 
league. 
Running the Dutchmen's offense is guard Doug Mills, a 6-I junior is the only other Hofstra player to average in double figures. Scoring I3.2 points a game, Mills also is listed tenth on the NCAA statistics for steals with 78. 
Chris Rankin. a 6-5 senior for­ward, combines with sophomore center Myles McPartland, a 6-9 transfer from Providence, to round 
out the Dutchmen's frontline. 
Averaging 19 points between them, 
Rankin and McPartland give Hofstra 
its rebounding power. 
Completing the starting lineup is 
6-2 senior guard Eric Harvey, who 
averages 7.4 points a game. 
While Hofstra is never mentioned in the same breath with Indiana or North Carolina, their respectable record has Phelps wary of "another Fordham." 
"History will show that we've had two tough games with Hofstra," says Digger Phelps. "In the NCAA tour­ney (90-83 in I976-77) and in the ACC (65-55 in I980-81), they hold their own. They play that tough brand ofEastern basketball. And this year, HofStra seems to have put it to­gether as shown by their first-place standing in the East Coast Con­ference." 
Phelps expects the Flying Dutchmen to stall should they get into the lead in tonight's game and emphasizes the need for the stu­dents to respond once again for the Irish. The conference that Hofstra leads is the same conference that in­cludes American University (a team that beat Georgetown) and LaSalle College (a team that led Villanova before falling at the buzzer). Expect the Flying Dutchmen to be in the NCAA tournament at season's end and look for a difficult game for the Irish tonight. 
IRISH ITEMS -Tom Sluby came 

SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
Special Price on Soft Lenses 
$99 pair price 
Price Includes: 
*Daily wear soft contact lenses *Professional and fitting fees *Free cold care solution kit *Free training in proper handling 
Call one of our convenient locations today tor an appointment. Present this ad tor the 
Special $99 price. 
Professional Vision Associates ... the professionals in eyecare. 
1635 N Ironwood 277·1161 2211 S. Michigan St. 289-7272 Bellville Shopping Ctr. 287·5949 
• • • Zips 
down with the flu and asked to be removed from the game. Phelps is hopeful that Sluby will be alright tor tonight's game with Hofstra ... 
II,345 fans attended, marking the fifth capacity crowd at the ACC this season. The Irish have played before just two sellout crowds on the road (Villanova and Marquette) ... Walk­on Karl Love excited the crowd by hitting a tremendous off-balance 25­footer with 3 seconds remaining to reach the scoring column ... Akron center Tim Spikes suffered a badly sprained ankle midway through the second half. Although Spikes is only 6-7, he is the second tallest member of the Zip squad (only walk-on Darius Moss is taller) ... The Irish started the same lineup that was used at Pittsburgh (Paxson, Sluby, Kempton, Varner, and Dolan). The lineup is the ninth different starting combination employed by Phelps this season. 

Every Tuesday night in the 
Wild Wheel 
Terrace Lounge, experience Wild Wheel 
Crab Races/ 
Crab Races! 
FREE Registration at 8:30 p.m. select a crab from our stable, and anxiously await the 9:00p.m. post time! Prizes will be awarded to the winners. 
Between races, drink discount prices will be spinning on our Wild Wheel! Wherever the wheel stops, that's the price for drinks during the next 15 minutes, as low as 50¢! 
Come out. of your shell at the Terrace Lounge every Tuesday for South Bend's only Wild Wheel Crab Races! 

The Observer Tuesday, February 22, 1983 -page 10 
,. 

By DEAN SULLIVAN 
.\ports Writer 
'I11e Notre Dame track team faced its stiffest competition of the year at the Central Collegiate Conference meet last weekend and finished thc weekend with mixed results. Al­though the team's eighth-place finish did not quite put the Irish among thc top seven as Coach Joe Piane had hoped, there were some 
sterling individual efthrts from the 
runners. 
Assisant Coach Ed Kelly, who tilled in for Piane who was away on personal husine"'s, led his runners in­to the Kalamazoo tournament only to he met hy some of the fastest times the Irish had seen all year. For instance, the Notre Dame distance medley relay team ofJohn McNelis, Jan Kania, Jim Tyler, and Tim Can­non were just .2 seconds off a meet record hut only came in fifth place. 
Co-captain Steve Dziahis placed the highest among Irish runners, finishing in a second place in the SOO meters. He also qualifit·d for the NCAA by more than one second with a time of 1:01.7. 
There were several other Notre runners who also did well. Graduate student John McCloughan tlnished third in the high hurdles, while Can­non and Ed Juha each took seventh places, Canon in the two-mile run andJuha in the ';000 metcrs. 
Dziahis thought the C.C.C. t1eld was the best since he has been at Notre Dame. 
,....,.....,_ ":'!""""·~-~-. ~'!'!'! • -·,·--·---~---,..----, 
International Coffees. -. 
GENERAL FOODS® INTERNATIONAL COFFEES AS MUCH A FEELING AS A FLAVOR 
QENlRAL FOODS 
© 1982 General Foods Corporation 

Central Collegiate meet 
Irish keep up with tough foes 
"Most every event was spec­Another reason fi.>r his optimism is tacular," said the senior from North the return of injured t.·o-captain Jim Manchester, Indiana. "There were at Moyar who returned to action last least one or two good individuals in weekend. every race and the times showed that. There were quite a few national Next up for the track team is the qualifiers." Illini Classic at the University of Il­
D:liahis is conlldent that the team linois. The Classic is an individual is in good shape as far as the future is meet without tt'am standings. The 
concerned. lie expects a few more IC4A competition in Princewn, national qualifiers, such as Van New Jersey will ht' held the follow­Pearcy and McCloughan. ing weekend. 
============================= 
• • • Belles 
continuedfrom page 12 
the :H free throws for the game. Saint Mary's was 2--i of ,;o from the charity strie, including a perfect seven-fi.>r-sevcn by Suess who finisht:d with I,; points. 
"You can't ask for any more than that," Rouse said of tht' Belles' free throw pertormance. 
The Belles, who tinished 9-1 ,;, had moved to a 26-9 lead barely I 0 minutes into the contest before tht Pumas made their move. Saint Joseph's outscored the Belles 28-16 in the last half of the period before intermission to trail only 42-,; 7 at the half. 
"The first ten minutt's were the 
best we've played all year," Rouse 
said. 
Saint Mary's switched from a man­
to-man defense in the tlrst half to 
various zone dt'fenscs in the second. 
"I thought I'd change it up to try 
to protect us," said Rouse of the 
Belles' switch to a zont' deft.·nst' in 
hopt:s of protecting their player.~ in 
t(Jlll trouhle. "I told the girb to give 
tht'm the outside shot. If they make 
tht'm, we're in trouble." 
BELLE RINGERS Saint 
Joseph's H~ points represt'nts the 
most points scored against tht' 
Bdlcs this season ... The Pumas arc a Division II team offning four full scholarships to none for Saint Mary's . . . Suess tinished as the Bellt!s leading scorer with an average of 16.1 points per game. Van Orr was next. scoring 14. 5. Short also averaged in double figures at an even I 1.0 game, while McGinnb was a shade short of double digits, averaging 9.H. 
• • . Bruno 
continuedfrompage 12 
Besides sidelining Andreeti, the flu 
clearly showed in Golic throughout 
his match. Bruno says that a number 
of his other wrt'stlers were also 
plagued with the tlu that has been 
going around. 
The · win ovt'r Siena Heights is 
therefore attributable, in the eyes of 
Bruno. to superior conditioning. 
"In spilt' of :Ill our sickness, we 
~till outconditioned them," 
rt'marknl the pleased coach. 
"Hopefully Wt' will he OVt'r most of 
this hv next weekend. 
"We will work them real hard the 
tir~t three days of the week and then 
let up to ease them into rcgionals." 
Cotby's 
"Tuesday Night Special" 

I Heineke~ Dr~ft•••••••Sl.OO I 
I 
I 
Go N.D. basketballers, beat HofstraI 
The Picture Man PRESENTS 
Ju~Loh cpahe~tg CUJeekeftd 
"Proofs on Display" 
Where: LaFortune Student Center When: Thurs and Fri, Feb 24, 25--Mon, Tues Wed, Feb 28, March 1, 2 Time: 12 noon--5 pm each day 

Bring your cou~_on for a FREE picture ..
..._.._.._.S~ou._.t.h•~A1)11.I•Ic o•v•e•R•o•o•m.a-.........l~-:.).
• llfi II
10 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
1~~=================================== 
T0 d3:x============T=u=e=sd=a=y=,F=e=b=ru=ary=2=2='=I=9B=3==p=a=ge=II 



(1/N YOU l W!W'T­~££P q !ELL ft 
j I 
,'5f(lf£T? :XJtll' 
I 

NO OV£ &IT J (Jt/P£R· YOU ·9ND I t5T!INO•.. KNOW. I '1.1.. MY 
NOT/f/!16. 
Fate 


The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 2/22/113 


T/1 TELL/116 !1Y IJP5 YOU IN THE. !lf?E SEIIt.tiJ. 
fl171ot>T CONF/­
~NC£. 

ACROSS 34 Artful 
1 Garret dodger 
5 Paroxysm 35 Research 10 Sail center 
support 37 Joshua, 14 Medley for one 15 Casals' 38 Encore! 
instrument 39 Roman gold 16 Exhort coin 17 Carton 42 Potation 18 "It's-!" 43 Concept 
(agreed) 45 Clever 19 Origin raillery 20 About to 46 On the 
crack agenda 23 Candid 48 Gear cogs 24 Under: pref. 50 Series of 25 Bent four plays 30 Borsch 52 Greek 
vegetables letter
Monday's Solution 

Berke Breathed 
Campus 
•1 
:30 p.m. -Workshop, Sophomore Literary Festival, Edward Abbey, Library Lounge 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Seminar, "Suspensions of Rigid Rods: From Infinite Dilution to Modern Concentra­tions," Prof William B. Russel, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•7:30 
p.m. -Reading, Sophomore Literary Fes­tival, Barry Lopez, Library Auditorium 

•s 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Men vs. Hofstra, ACC Arena 

•8 
p.m. -Fellowship of Christian Athletes Meeting, St. Ed's Chapel 


T.V. Tonight


6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7:00 !>-ffi.
Cfll'r' YOU NO... YOU 

trtEP ll &Trf:.R /'lOT 
7:30 
Photius 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9:00 p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
54 Chime 21 Fencing 55 Blunts foils 63 Stone and 22 Confer 
Space knighthood 
16 NewsCenter 16 28 Newswatch 28 34 3·2·1 Contact 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC World News Tonight 34 Making It Count 16 MASH :a Laverne & Shirle,· 
28 Joker·~ Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 Allin The Family 
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic l'ac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
16  The ATeam  
22  Special Movie Presentation:  "Will  
There Really be a Morning?"  
28  Happy Days  
34  Nova  
28  Laverne and Shirley  
16  Bare Essence  
28  Three's Company  
34  American Playhouse  
28  9 to 5  
16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Hart to Hart  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Indiana Lawmakers  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Quincy & McMillan & Wife  
28  ABC News Nightline  

64 "The Velvet 25 Ledger Fog" entry 
The Far Side 
65 Relative of 26 Slurover 
a wheeze 27 Signal 66 Banjo ridge flare 67 Witch's 28 Select 
city 29 Family man 68 Cum's land 31 Poetry muse 69 Sunbathes 32 Wire: abbr. 70 Brings up 33 Rundown 71 Invites 36 Certain 
commuters 
DOWN 40 Kindled 1 Crazy 41 Argot 2 Pearl Buck 44 Certifies 
heroine 47 African 3 Symbolof country defiance 49 Owns 4 Initial 51 Vibra~ion advantage 53 Absolute 
5 Ray Bolger 55 T.R.'s SUC· in "The cess or Wizard 56 Taj Mahal ofOz" site 
6 Pedagogue 57 Acute 7 Shake­58 Sharpen 
(hurry) 59 Wagnerian 8 Metal dross earth 9 Breakwaters goddess 
10 Shoo-in 60 Skiff 11 Spur equipment 12 Eager 61 Antiair· 13 Network craft fire 
of nerves 62 Bogs 

• 
.. 
.. 

!IHIIIHIIt...HI....IIHHIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIII.........IIIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
ditectftom Broadway! . 
''AffiR DEUS'' 
1981 Tony Award winning play!! see it with your student union march5 At Chicago's Schubert Theater 
1Tickets available atthe Student Union ticket office S35.00 
..................-........-..~·i-g·~·~·;;·~·~;..;;;;";h;-;·983'''''"'"'"'"'"""'"'""'""'1 u\ia00 u'\Jtugic Covnpetitiott . 
uUallch4&S  
first prize  $15 0  4th place $75  
2nd place  $125  5th place $50  
3rd place  $100  

Musical acts!! sign up now and win$$$! pick up applications and rules from the Student Union office starting Feb. 10 Applications due Friday Feb 26 at 8 pm! 
i~!~~~~~~~~.e~!~!~~~~~-u--••~~~~~~~~~lLHIInH-fllllllln-outi-IIHHHfiiiHj 
------~ 
• 

Tuesday, February 22, 1983-page 12 
Hofstra visits tonight 
Paxson, Irish~zap the Zips 
ByWILLHARE game high 1 5 rebounds. finished with 19 points, had scored 
It did not take long for Notre at least 20 points in each game this Dame to take advantage of the fact season. If one notices the list of the that Akron was playing its third "We didn't do anything special for NCAA's leading scorers, one sees game in four days as Bill Varner and joeJakubick," said Phelps. "We tried names such as Kelly of Texas South­
Sports Writer 
Kempton each contributed vicious to deny him the ball. My concern ern, Bradley of South F:orida, and blocked shots in the opening was not letting Jakubick get 42 Yates ofGeorge Mason. 
minutes to subdue the Zips. Notre points like he did in their big win At the top of the list isjakubick of 
Dame soon opened up an 18-H lead Saturday against Eastern Kentucky." and did not look back. Jakubick has had games of 46, 4-i, Akron. 
While these players compile their "Notre Dame executed well no 47, and 4 2 points so far this season. A impressive scoring feats for relative­matter ifwe used our man-to-man or noted three-point ~hooter in the ly unknown teams, John Paxson of our zone," stated Akron coach Bob Ohio Valley Conference. Jakubick is 
Notre Dame showed what distin­Rupert. "We were lost against their averaging nearly.'\ I poims per game. guishes an All-American from a matchup zone defense." However, the NCAA does not 
scoring machine as he led Notre After making just 29 percent ( 8 of recognize three-point ~hots in its of­Dame to an easy 80-45 rout overJoe 28) of their tlrst half shots, Akron tlcial statistics. Jakuhick and the Akron Zips at the tlnbhed shooting 36.4 percent for "Any time you play a great player, 
ACC last night. the game. it is a challenge." said Paxson. "We Paxson. averaging I7 points per The Irish meanwhile received knew he was good in the transition game compared to Jakubick's lofty 
solid offensive output from forwards game so we pressured turn. 28.~ tlgure, scored a game-high 24 Jim Dolan and Varner. Dolan posted "If he would have gonen started. .... 13 points and 10 rebounds while he might have made every shot he
points while chipping in with ti>ur assists and a pair of steals. Jakubick 
Varner ~cored in double figures for took." fired in 19 points for the losers. 
the twelfth time this season with I I For the Irish, it was a ~urprisingly "He (Paxson) just wanted to say points. easy victory. Riding the coattails ofa I'm John Paxson and welcome to 
"In the first half we wanted to hit win over OVC leader Murray State, college basketball," said Irish coach the boards as much as possible," said Akron was too flat to take on a power Digger Phelps, referring to the Dolan. "They weren't a bad club but like Notre Dame. Paxson-)akubick matchup. they were oversized. We were too "We were alright the first two 
Notre Dame raced to a 40-16 big for them." (Tlinutes but then we became some-halftime lead behind Paxson's 8 of The Irish ended Jakubick's string 
see ZIPS, page 9 I 0 shooting and domination of the of 20-point games. Jakubick, who boards. Tim Kempton equaled the Akron first half total of 10 rebounds while the Irish outrebounded the 
Belles lose in their
Zips 27-10. 
Kempton, averaging 14.5 points and 6. 5 rebounds over his last six games while shooting at a .698 clip, 
final game of season 
maintained his outstanding play by 
By DAVE IRWIN Foul trouble cursed the Belles in scoring 16 points and grabbing a 
Sports Writer the closing minutes as Saint Mary's finished the game with just three 
Saint Mary's basketball team's players on the court. Van Ort, who season ended on a sour note as the paced all scorers with 24 points, was Belles dropped a 84-74 decision to the first to go with 5:28 showing and visiting Saint Joseph's College last the Belles trailing 75-66. 
night. Saint Mary's made a last ditch ef­
Wrestlers' last home meet a win 
The Belles stung the Pumas in the fort behind the efforts of Chip swan opening minutes of the game, but Ayotte and Short. Ayotte's two free
ByJEFF BLUMB season. was senior Doug Skinner's hot shooting by Saint Joseph's in the throws and a lay-up closed the mar­
Sports Writer "It was a great accomplishment song. In his finale before a home 
second half, as well their own foul gin to 76-70 and Short's lay-up off afor us," said Bruno of Baty's win. "I crowd, the 150-pound native of trouble, plagued them. nifty pass from Elaine SuessBefore a host offamily and friends, was most impressed with him today. Elkhart posted a 19-l0 victory in a Saint Mary's led 42-37 at the half narrowed the gab to 76-72 with still
the Notre Dame wrestling team And did you see that smile on his match featuring takedown after behind Missy Van On's 17 points. 1 :52 left. 
topped Siena Heights College 33·8 face after the match?" takedown. But with less than six minutes gone As the tlnal seconds ticked away,
Saturday afternoon in the ACC Pit to Bruno also was impressed with Other winners for the Irish Satur­in the second half, the Pumas went Saint Mary's committed two tur­
raise· its season mark to 18-2, the the showing of heavyweight Mike day were co-captain Don Heintzel­ahead for the first time, 52-51, on a novers and missed in its final three
best in Irish wrestling history. Golic. In the most emotional match man, 1 0-5; John Krug, 8-1; and Eric three-point play by Penny Salm. chances from the field. The PumasThe meet, originally scheduled to of the day, Golic drew 6-6 with his Crown and Louis Carnesale, both by The Belles drew ~ven at 62-62 on put the final touches to its sixth winbe a quadrangular -with with Siena Heights foe, a two-time junior forfeit. 
..  Miami ofOhio and Southwest Michi­gan also participating -ended up being a dual meet. Miami of Ohio was forced to cancel because of  college national champ who had beat him earlier this season. The crowd was on the edge of their seats as the two bruisers  Losing their matches were fresh­man Mark Johnson (filling in for the sick joe Andreeti) at 134 and Matt Stamm at 190.  a jumper by Cyndy Short from the left-hand corner at the 9:37 mark. But they could muster just five points in the next 6:26 and fell be­ in 22 outings by hitting eight of its last nine free throws as Mary McQuillan, Teresa McGinnis, Suess, and Short all fouled out before the  
travel problems and Southwest Michigan because of a scheduling conflict. And so it was the Irish and the  battled to a 5-5 tie after two periods. Spurred on by a large contingent of his fellow football players present ­in addition to his brother Bob of the  Sickness has been a big problem for the Irish wrestlers latetly. see BRUNO, page 10  hind 76-67. "Lack of depth," moaned head coach Mike Rouse, who finished his first campaign 9-13.  game was over. Saint joseph's connected on 26 of see BELLES, page 10  
Saints squaring off by themselves.  NFL's Cleveland  Browns  - Golic  
Notre Dame had previously bested Siena Heights in a number oftourna­ pulled an escape move in the last half-minute to take a narrow 6-5 ad­ Best amateur athlete  
ments, including the Siena Heights Invitational earlier this season (which the Irish won) but still Irish  vantage. And that was the score showing on the scoreboard as time ran out.  Tabb wins Sullivan A ward  
coach  Bro.  Joseph  Bruno,  C.S.C.,  However,  the  Siena  Heights  
thought the meet would be much  heavyweight was credited with one  INDIANAPOLIS  (AP)  - Long­ for the indoor mile three times last  for the second year in  a row, and  
closer.  point for having the most riding time  distance runner Mary Decker Tabb,  year,  with  her  best  clocking  at  skier Phil Mahre was a finalist for the  
"Although  we  finished ahead of  in the match, knotting the score at  who broke seven world records and  4:20.5. During a 41-day span starting  second time in three years. Mahre,  
them  in  all  those  tournaments,"  six.  10  American  standards  last  year,  lastjune 5, Tabb set three world and  who finished third in voting behind  
Bruno said, "each time it was by only  Ironically, it was the first time that  received  the  Sullivan  Award  last  six  American  records.  The world  Heiden and Louganis two years ago,  
a  few  points.  And  at  their  own  the Irish had used riding time at a  night  as  the U.S. Amateur Athletic  marks were in 5,000 meters, 3,000  did  not  attend  yesterday's  award  
tournament I think that they came in  home match this year.  Union's top athlete for 1982.  meters, and the mile.  ceremony because of competition  
second or third right behind us."  Golic's record is 24-3-1  heading  The  winner  of the  prestigious  She said her long-range goal is the  in Europe.  
The meet marked a landmark in  into  the  Midwest  Regionals  this  award,  presented  annually  since  Olympics in Los Angeles next year  Among other favorites this year  
the wrestling career of sophomore  weekend at the University of Ken­ 1930 by the AAU, was announced at  but more immediate, she said,  are  was distance runner Alberto Salazar,  
Phil Baty. Although Baty set an Irish  tucky.  an awards dinner at the Indianapolis  the world championships this com­ also ofEugene, Ore.  
record for most wins in a season last  One wrestler who  will  not  be  Convention Center.  ingjuly.  Salazar, 25, who set a record in the  
year as a freshman ( 3 3) he lost to the  going  to  Kentucky  but  who  still  Last year's Sullivan Award winner,  Among the other nominees was  Boston Marathon in 1982, won the  
same Siena opponent twice.  wrestled well Saturday is 126-pound  track  star  Carl  Lewis,  made  the  diver Greg Louganis, 23, a Sullivan  U.S. indoor title, placed first in the  
And after Baty lost to that same  freshman Glenn Glogas. Replacing  presentation to Tabb.  finalist for the fourth straight year  U.S. cross country trials and finished  
guy two more times this year, he was  the  injured  Mark  Fisher,  Glogas  "This  is  the  most  prestigious  and runner-up in the balloting to  second in the world cross country  
all the more determined to win this  pinned  his  opponent  in  an  im­ award  an  athlete  can  win,"  said  speed skater Eric Heiden two years  championships in Rome.  
time.  pressive 50 seconds.  Tabb, 24, a native ofNewJersey who  ago.  Meagher,  18, of Louivville, Ky.,  
In one of the day's better matches,  "It was spectacular," said Bruno of  now lives in Eugene, Ore.  Among the other Sullivan finalists  has been the world's top butterfly  
Baty did beat his nemesis from Siena  Glogas' win. "He is newer to college  "The  only  thing  beyond  this  last night, swimmer Mary T. Meag­ swimmer since  1979, holding the  
Heights, 3-2, in a hard-fought battle  wrestling so his win is all the more  would  be  an  Olympic  medal.  It's  her was contesting for the award for  record in the 200 meters. In 1982,  
to the finish. Baty's winning margin  important."  gratifying just to be among a group  the third straight year. Synchronized  she  won  the  U.S.  long and  short  
was  an  escape  move  worth  one  Being  the  last  home  wrestling  ofathletes like this."  swimmer  Tracie  Ruiz-and  figure  course and placed first in the world  
point.  ~e  is  now  at  32-7 for  the  meet of the season for the Irish, it  Tabb set women's world records  skater Scott Hamilton were finalists  championship trials.  

