News Showcase 
Scalping 
Tailgating ­


Inside•• 
page3 
page9 

Vol, L~ 


Saturday, September 17,1983 


The -Observer-_:--~ 

• 


___g to sa e Spartans 
Irish need to be wary of new MSU attitude 
ByLOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
Fired up from a successful debut last week under new head coach George Perles, the Michigan Spar­tans will enter today's gaine against Notre Dame with an enthusiastic and confident outlook. 
"Anytime a new coach comes into a program there's a lot ofenthusiasm generated, and I don't think there's any question George Perles has done that at Michigan State," says Perles' Irish counter­part Gerry Faust. "An opening day win like that (a 23· I 7 comeback against Colorado) can do won­ders for the confidence ofyour players. So I'm sure they'll come down here Saturday and feel like they can play with anybody." 
The fiery Perles is a sharp contrast to the grandfatherly image that Mu ddy Waters seemed to portray for the Spartans the last three years. A su­perb leader, Perles served as the Pittsburgh Steelers defensive coordinator through their glory years in the 1970's before resigning the post last year in order to fill the vacancy left by Waters. 
Within one year he has already outrecruited Bo Schembechler in the state of Michigan, conducted the most intense and grueling practice sessions at Michigan State in years, and instilled a confident at· titude within the team that it lacked during last year's woeful 2-9 campaign. 
"Notre Dame and Michigan are the games I'm paid to win," says Perles. "I don't intend to see us lay down and die just because we see blue and gold.'' 
While Perles doesn't feel intimidated by the Notre Dame mystique, he is very aware ofits talent. "Notre Dame is one ofthe bigger teams in the 
see SPARTANS, paRe :Z 



A rough reunion 
Summer acquaintances, Bell and Banks, meet again 
By STEVE LABATE 
Spurts Writer 
One game concluded. One game won. And at least one thing is certain with regard to the Notre Dame football team -Greg Bell is back. 
The question whether he would be back or not was answered when Bell took a pass from Blair Kiel in the first period last Saturday, then faked right, sidestepped left, and scampered into the endzone. The one-year wait to return was over. A lot must have been going through Bell's mind as the referee raised his arms signifying Notre Dame 6, Purdue 0. 
"Mainly what was running through my head was that it had been a long time since I got the chance to cross the goal line," recalls Bell. "It was a feeling like, 'I'm back. I'm healthy. And against the people who last year stopped what I considered could have possibly been one ofmy better years. This (the touchdown) is one ofa lot to come.' 
"I wanted to go across that end zone a lot that day," smiles Bell, "and I eventually did. It was real sweet.'' 
These are happier days for Greg Bell, a native ofColumbus, Ohio. Last season he suffered what doctors termed "a serious injury," a broken fibula in his right leg. Finished for the season, Greg sat and watched his teammates -something that was more painful to him than the break itself: 
"Anytime you're hurt, you are going to he upset." says Bell, "especially since we weren't doing so great in the won-loss column. I'm happier now. I'm hack in action and have a chance to have some fun and play a little football." 
He has a chance to have some fun because his rehabilitation ofthe leg went very well. Forced to sit out spring drills in order to give his leg extra time to heal, Bell contemplated his role on the team in wake ofAllen Pinkett's emergence at tailback. He came back to Notre Dame this summer with a lot to prove -to himsel( 
"I really did not have much to prove to Coach Faust," says Bell. "I think he knows what I can do. I just had something to prove to mysel( I had an ankle injury which was considered a bad injury. I wanted to prove to myselfthat I could come back from it and be just as good as I was before." 
It is still too early in the season to predict, but it would appear that Greg may have come hack better. Last Saturday in Ross-A de Stadium, Bell weaved, slashed, leaped, and barreled into the end zone -not once. hut four times. 
Bell erased any doubt anyone had concerning his recovery on his first score, and proved that he may he better than ever on his last. 
On the play, he took a pitchout from Kiel on the '5-yard line, and started left towards the flag. After breaking free from defensive tackle Chris Scott's grasp, Bell used second and third effort to muscle through the Boilermaker pursuit to score. 
see BELL, page 15 
Greg Bell Irish Tailback 


MSU Saturday, September 17, 1983-page 2 
George Perles comes from the pros 

Rebuilding a tradition: to get MSU football back on track 
George Perles Spartan Coach 


continU«Jfrom page 1 
country and has as much talent as any college 
team. ' says Perlcs. "On paper, I call them tops in 
the nation." 
Like last year's I I·~ Notre Dame victory at East 
Lansing, Notre Dame-Michigan Statt· games have 
traditionally been hard-hitting defensive battles. 
Senior Carl Banks, an all-America candidate at 
linebacker, will lead another strong Spartan 
defensive unit that has not let Notre Dame into the 
Michigan State endzone since the t1rst quarter of 
the 19H I game. 
While Michigan State's linehacking and secon· 
dary corps are well-stocked with talent, its 
defensive line is suspect because ofa lack of game 
expereince among the starters as well as a lack of 
great size. The line averages out to 6-2, 2·H 
pounds, small by collegiate standards, hut Perles 
says that his team can and will compensate for its 
lack ofsize by using technique and leverage. 
llnderslzed or not, Faust singled out the quick· 
ness of .Mkhigan State's offensive and defensive 
line as the most impressive attribute of the team. 
''I'm very impressed with their down people on 
the defense," praises Faust. "Ouroffensive lineman 
are going to have to he more protkient with their 
blocking because ofthcir quickness." 
Because quickness is the biggest asset for the Spartans this year, Perles has promised that a lot of blitzing will he used by the Spartans in order to pressure the opposing quarterback. 
The off<:nsive line for the Spartans, though big· 
ger than tl .:ir defensive teammates, impressed 
l'aust even more with its quickness. 
The much improved Michigan State offense will he even mort· effective since tailhack Aaron Roberts is expected to sec a lot ofaction after having sat out most of last Saturday's game against Colorado with an ankle injury. Roberts, a junior, was regardt·d as the top prep running back in the nation three year~ ago and was heavily recruited by Notre Dame. After a tine freshman seas ton in which he kd the team in rushing ;md averaged live yards a carry. Roberts had a hitter and frustrating sopho· more campaign in which he openly disagreed with 
coaching philosophies on the team and sat on tht· 
hench for most ofthe year. Spartan fans are still 
waiting for Roberts to live up to his tremendous potential. 
Freshman Bobby Morse, son of 1956 Notre Dame nptain.Jim Morse, will probably get the starting nod at tailback..Morse, like his coach, made a dazzling debut last week hy scoring both Michi· gan State touchdowns. 
The otlenst· hardly revolves around the tailback,
I 
I though. Because the otli:nsive lint· docs comeotf I the hall so quickly, the Spartans like to run a lot of 
l I 
Editor's Note: The following is a reprintfrom a spring issue of MSU Alumni Magazine. 
By ROBERT BAO 
Editor 'IISU Alumni 'llagazine 
lie looms over Spartan Stadium, looking professorial in tweed, his relentless face softened by a "say cheese" smile. Just as the camera clicks, the wind turns his hair into renegade, tluttering strands. It's a rare glimse of Creorge Perles, who seldom lets his hair down these days. 
Michigan State's new football coach has hit the ground sprinting since his arrival in December. His watch always set t1ve minutes fast, a habit that thwarts even punctual associates, Perles has thrust the rebuild· ing timetable into overdrive. 
"l want to turn things around immediately," he ex· plains. "By the time next season hegins, I want to go int< every game feeling we can win." 
Is instant success realistic? "It's realistic to me," he snaps. 
He sinks into a chair in his office, after several hours in meetings, glancing ever so slightly towards the clock. fie sits erect, exuding confidence. Behind his cavalier optimism lie hours upon hours ofgroundwork he and his staff have expended. 
In just three months they have imposed order, dis­cipline, and organization on a program that was reeling from three straight ignominious y tears. Initial con· troversy over MSU's S175,000 settlement with the Philadelphia Stars, a payment made from athletic revenues and not tax dollars, has not prevented them from making concrete progress on three crucial fronts 
• • .Spartans 
quick trap plays with junior fullback Carl Butler. 
Butler led Spartan rushers last week, gaining 80 
yards on 2 I carries. 
The passing attack appears to be pretty solid too with sophomore quarterback Dave Yarema. Yarema, one ofthe most sought after quarterbacks in the nation two years ago, took over as the starter last year in the eighth game an went on to lead the Spartans to their only two victories. Yarema com· pleted an impressive 15-of-23 passes for 179 yards last week against Colorado. 
Michigan State's passing attack consists ofa straight drophack style that, at times, sends out as many as tlve receivers. The best of them is senior split end Daryl Turner who caught six passes for 12H yards against Colorado. An honorable­mention Big·Ten selection as a sophomore, Turner is a constant deep threat with his great speed. He scored the Spartans lone touchdown two years against Notre Dame on a 63-yard pass play. Ever since his arrival as a freshman, Spartan coaches have said that Turner is destined.to become an All· American and one ofMichigan State's all-time great receivers. 
Junior punter and placekicker Ralf Mojsiejenko, meanwhile, will probably have a lot to say about Notre Dame's field position. Faust listed good field position against Purdue as one ofthe keys to Notre Dame's rout of Purdue last Saturday. Mojsiejenko, however, is one of the premier punters in the na· tion and hopes to keep the Irish pinned deep in their territory. He averaged 44.6 yards per punt last year, and is also an outstanding placekicker as evidenced by the 50-yard field goal he kicked against the Irish last year. 
"I've always liked Michigan State's skill position people," says Faust. "Ifthey continue to play with cont1dence, they'll do a lot ofdamage. They only won two games last fall, but both of them came af· ter Yarema moved in at quarterback late in the year." 
As for the Irish, Faust simply concludes that the team has to play errorless football in order to win. 
"We didn't play poorly for an opener, but we've got a long way to go and a lot ofthings to improve," says Faust. "I think we found out that we weren't in as good shape as we thought we were, and that's going to be crucial in these warm-weather games." 
Notre Dame will not play at home again until Oc· tobcr 22 when they entertain Southern Cal. Miami and South Carolina are just two ofthe warm­weather sites Notre Dame will play at after the Michigan State game. He'll see just what kind of shape the team is in. 
But nothingwould compare to the heat the team might feel if it overlooks a confidf''1t and enthusias­tic Michigan State football team today. 
-recruiting, conditioning, and strategy. 
In just five weekends, MSU recruited a class that raised as many hopes in East Lansing as eyebrows in Ann Arbor. It includes 7 ofthe 15 Michigan players on the Detroit News "Blue Chip" list. 
"Michigan State sells itself," explains Perles, who himselftook a S70,000 a year pay cut to work at MSU. 
The administration helped mightily. President Cecil Mackey, or Vice-President Kenneth Thompson. or a senior University officer personally met every single recruit visiting campus. When taken to Spartan Stadium, each recruit saw his name !lash across the scoreboard. They also likely did not miss Pcrles's diamond Super Bowl ring -one offour he won with the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
You can't win without great players, but you can lose with them. 
-Perles 

Recruiting alone, however, is not enough. "You can't win without great players," says Perles, "but you can lose withthem." Players need training and experience. And conditioning. 
Assistant coach Carl "Buck" Nystrom, All-American MSU guard in 1955, devised a physical preparation program "as tough and demanding as I've seen," accord­ing to Perles. Agrees senior offensive tackleJim Lamb: "It's triple what we ever did before." Adds co-captain and All-American candidate Carl Banks, "It's really tough, but it's positive. Everything goes according to schedule. There's much more discipline." 
The rigorous workouts, it is hoped, will sustain MSU performance in the fourth quarter, a period that sealed seven heartbreaking losses in 1982. 
Strategy changes will give MSU football what Perles calls "the Pittsburgh look"-a lot oftrappingand drop· back passing on offense, with heavy use ofdouble-wing !(>rmation which can send up to five receivers cris· scrossing upfield. 
Defense will rely on the 4· 3 formation. "It'll he tough, aggressive, with lots ofblitzing," notes Perles. "We'll pressure the other team's quarterback." 
The strategy conferences unfold over long sessions that sound like pig Latin. 
"We have to establish a common terminology," ex­plains Perles, as he glances towards the clock, anxious to return to a meeting with some strategists on loan from the Steelers. 
While Perles rewrites the MSU playbook, many ob· servers have begun to rewrite the book on Perles. 
Those who have long known him marvel at the way he has overcome his youth in a "tough, melting-pot neighborhood near Tiger Stadium," as administrative aide Ed Rutherford, his high school coach, puts it. "Rough around the edges" is a common description of the old Perles. One sportswriter called him "an open­collar guy" whose "idea ofa good time is six beers and six hours of telling football stories." 
Perles's character, however, has always been rock solid. He is intensely loyal, hard working, genuinely concerned about athletes and their education, with W· perb leadership and organizational tal ens. "A lot ofplain vanilla," says Buck Nystrom. "He's an endless worker and never feels the job can't be done." 
Duffy Daugherty, who coached Perles and then hired him as an assistant in 1967, recalls him as "a tireless worker with great knowledge who knows how to im· part it on the field." Predicts Duffy, "We'll be ready in the fall, just watch." 
Pcrles's good qualities remain intact. But, with his wife Sally's advice, his rough edges have been dramati· cally smoothed out. He works in coat and unloosened tie in a profession dominated by sweat suits. The sil· houette that earned him the nickname "Georgie Porgie" has been trimmed by ridding red meats from his diet and by jogging three miles a day -rain, hail or snow. And no more six-beer bull sessions. 
His idea of relaxation? To Sally's delight, it's cooking (and cleaning up afterwards). "Cooking is a form of love," says Perles, who brietly owned a resteraunt in Pittsburgh. "I love feeding my friends, !'ceding my wife, feeding my kids." 
';1hat does he cook? "Anything and everything," he says. Quiche? "No," he laughs. "What I cook depends on ·'·who Fm cooking for." Next fall the gridiron chef may find reason to serve crow in Ann Arbor and South Bend. If things work out the dish should arrive exactly t1ve minutes past the fourth quarter -Perles's time. 

' . \ ~ !_. 
r 


VOL XVIII, NO. 16 the.: indepemknt ~llldent rww~papcr ~t-r\·ing notrt· dame and ~ailll m;rn , SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1983 




Cap'n Crunch -week is latest bo-wl game 
By AMY STEPHAN 
Copy Editor  
He's bechero. Columns  ome are  sort of written  a cto  ampus praise  

him. Students stage sit-down strikes at the dining halls in his honor. And on Oct. 17 Cap'n Crunch is coming to Notre Dame. 
During the third week ofOctober, Cap'n Crunch -the famed breakfast cereal -will be under the Golden Dome, distributing T-shirts, free trips to Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., during Spring Break, and of course, Cap'n Crunch cereal. 
Before it's over, the Quaker Oats Co. will spend a reported $60,000. 
The week "could be one of the most exciting events on campus this year," said Sophomore Class Presi­dent Lee Broussard. The chain of events that created Cap'n Crunch week -which will lead up to the USC game -began when the sopho­more class officers promised on their platform last spring to throw a Cap'n Crunch party. 
After winning the election, the of­ficers "realized this would cost some money," Broussard said. They ap­proached Bill Hickey, director of Notre Dame food services, who gave them the name ofsomeone to talk to at Quaker Oats. 
The officers wrote to the firm ask­ing for a few cases offree cereal for the party. Quaker Oats turned the letter over its advertising agency, "which was very excited about it," said Jim McDonnell, director of stu­dent activities. 
The agency then submitted a proposal for Cap'n Crunch week, Oct.17·21. "When I read the proposal, I just get over it," Hickey said. In addition to 12 trips to Florida, prizes include tickets and transportation to Notre Dame-Penn State football game. A video-cassette recorder will be given away. And Quaker Oats will give n,ooo to a charity named by the sophomore class. 
"It's not your typical class­sponsored ev~t," McDonnell said. "It's a very expensive PR effort by 
Quaker  Oats ...This  is  a  college  
market  and  cereals  are  geared  
toward little kids."  

Quaker Oats has reportedly been 
TheObservt:r/Ilun Bralley 

Center dedicated 
Raymond Sprague (above) con­ducts the Saint Mary's Womens' Choir at yesterr:lay's dedication of the Haggar College Center. junior Kathy Krempasky (left) sings solo in front of the crozat gathered on the tenrlce of the new center. The 
11.4 million renovation ofthe old library was begun more than two years ago. Replacing the books and periodicals are a new bookstore, student offices, a travel bureau, a bank branch and a new snack bar. Student reaction to the new center bas been favorable. Stories on page 6. 

Fatberjolm Van Wolvlear 
in contact with the three television 
networks,RealPeople andThat's In­credible. 
The event is the first corporate­sponsored event of its kind that the administration has approved, McDonnell said. 
"Many industries are trying to get into the college market," said McDonnell, "and the beer industry is trying the hardest. We're being bombarded by requests from in-
see CAP'N CRUNCH, page 5 

Ticket scalping is hard to stop before big games 
By KEVIN BINGER threaten them (ticket scalpers StaffReporter around the stadium) with trespass­ing," said Terry. "They're on private S35 will get you a ticket to today's property making a profit on some­game. thing they just don't have a right to. S30 will get you a Navy ticket. If they don't cease and desist, we But the keys to Fort Knox won't might just bring them in on trespass­get you a USC ticket if Notre Dame's ing charges and wrestle with the still undefeated. prosecuter's office when it comes to 
Notre Dame Security Director that." Glenn Terry's voice reveals frustra­Another tool used to discourage tion and anger when he discusses scalping is discontinuing season ticket scalping. tickets of people caught scalping. 
"There's very little in the law that This happened once last year when we can do about it so we don't even Orsini heard about a scalper in South want to talk about it," he said. "We Bend and hired an undercover can't stop it, but we would )ike to tell policeman to buy tickets from him. those people to just disappear from The tickets cost S75. The scalper's this campus." name was scratched from the 
There is, in fact, nothing in In­season-ticket list. diana law against ticket scalping. Orsini estimated that this has hap­According to Michael Barnes, St. pened five to I 0 times in the last 20 Joseph County prosecuting attor­years. ney, the law against ticket scalping A related problem that happens was dropped from the Indiana penal much less frequently is ticket for­code in the late 1800's, about the ging. Terry remembers uncovering same time Notre Dame was founded. forged tickets after a Marquette· 
"It's been the position ofthe state Notre Dame basketball game three of Indiana that the dollar amount years ago. listed on a ticket is adequate warn­"Tickets were not that hard to ing to anyone wo might be in a posi­come by and somebody came up tion to buy it," said Barnes. with a pretty good replica," said Ter­
The Notre Dame position is just ry. the opposite. The Universtiy frowns But there have been no known on the hundreds of posters blanket· cases of forgery since Orsini took ing bulletin boards across the over at the ticket office. campus and personals in The Ob­The tickets are printed on a spe­server pleading for extra tickets, and cial "safety stock" paper that is made it frowns even more on the hawkers of several multi-colored layers who'll be outside the stadium today. which are visible when the ticket is 
"Anything on campus is under our ripped. jurisdiction," said Ticket Director 
The ticket.~ are printed by Wel­
Steve Orsini. "There is a campus law don, Williams & Lick in Fort Smith, against scalping." 
Ark., -the same company that But because it is difficult to prove prints the tickets for the Super Bowl 
that someone was actually scalping -and are very expensive.
and because the security force has many other duties on game days, no "We pay top dollar hut we feel it's arrests have ever been made. worth it for the security," said Or­
"What we end up doing is to sini. 
Drunk-driving la-w tnakes arrests easier 
someone guilty ofdriving under the
ByJEFFREY CHOPPIN 
influence.
Assistant News Editor 
The law removes the burden of impairment by making a Breat­
Drinking and driving is now more halizer reading of . I 0 percent or
likely to cost you 30 days without greater an automatic Class C mis·
the right to drive because of a new demeanor. Even if the police are
law in Indiana. unable to prove that a driver is im­
And Captain Thomas Gargis ofthe paired, the driver faces at least a 30­
Traffic Bureau in St. Joseph County day suspension of his license if he
said more police will patrol the area fails the Breathalizer test.
around campus today and tonight. A Breathalizer is a device to
St. Joseph County Prosecutor Mic­determine the percent alcohol in a
hael Barnes said the South Bend, St. person's bloodstream.
Joseph County and Indiana state If a driver refuses to take a Breat­
police depart tments "have made en­halizer test, his license is automati­
forcement (of the new law) a cally suspended for a year in the
priority item." state of Indiana. Indiana has recipro­
He added that the South Bend and cal agreements with many states
St. joseph County departments have regarding suspended licenses which
received federal funds to aid their ef­fort. 
see DRUNK DRIVING, page 8 
Gargis advised students: "Use discretion ifyou're planning to go to drink. The best idea is not to drive if you've been drinking, ·especially if you think you'll fail the drinking tests." 
The law, which went into effect Sept. 1, makes it easier for the In­diana police departments to find 
To our readers: 
Stories in today's paper that are written by Observer reporters ran in editions ear­lier this week. They are presented again to update visitors on campus events. 
...
-------------------------------------------~--------------­
The Observer Saturday, September 1 7, 1983 -page 4 
' 




In Brief -­
C>' • ' • • • ~ 
Go Irish, ;t Mishawaka publication which covers Notre Dame football, recently reached an out-of-court agreement which will settle ;1 pair of lawsuits involving the magazine. Fan Action, publishers ofGo /risb, sued the University last September claiming that the school was interfering in its normal husiness operation. The Univt·rsity countersued, alledging the magazine was trying to appear to he conne<.·ted with Notre Dame. The settlement requires the puhlication to change its name to Blue and Gold Illustrated, while the University will grant basic press priviledges to the magazine. ­
The Obsen,er 
More than 2 million Moslems from 65 
countries converged yesterday on Saudi Arahia's Mount Arafat chanting prayers to Allah at the climax of the annual pilgrimage season. Waves of men in seamless white rohes and women in dresses and head scarves poured onto the storied plateau as security police supervised the march from scores of helicopters and hundreds of patrol c;1rs. Saudi state television called it "the largest traffic jam in the world." It was televised live hy satellite to more than 25 countrks. The pilgrimage, known as the Haj, began Sept. 5 and was initially marked hy attempb to give the ritual a political tone. Saudi security forces quietly hut firmly halted Iranian pilgrims' attempts to organize demonstrations and distrihute revolutionary pamphlets. 
The Iranians surged through the holy city of Mecca last week 
shouting, "Death to America, death to the Soviet Union, death to 
lsrad" About :~0 pilgrims were reported injured in clashes with 
police. -AP 
Members ofthe Teamsters Union, despite high 
unemployment among their own ranks, yesterday smashed a plan that could have slashed the wages of laid-off truckers in return for bolstering their chances of being rehired. The proposal was turned down 9'l.OH6 to I_'\,OH2, a union spokesman announced from Wash­ington. Teamsters president jackie Presser had urged union mem­bers to go along with the rider to their current contract as a way to 
"restore economic dignity and security to thousands of laid-off Teamsters and their families." There was no immediate reaction from Presser to the defeat. He was quoted in the union's announce­ment of the vote results as saying he "hoped that labor and manage­ment jointly could continue to find ways to put unemployed workers hack to work." -AP 
The stock marketclosed out a losing week with a rally yesterday as traders kept their regular vigil for the latest statistics on the money supply. Transportation issues paced the advance in an­other relatively quiet session on Wall Street. The Dow jones average of .~0 industriab rose 10.6~ to 1,225.71, reducing its loss for the week to 1-UH points. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 75.55 million _,hares, against ..,0.42 million Thursday. -AP 
i Of Interest -. · 
I 
Members of Alpha Phi Omega; a national 
s~·rvice fratnnity, will he. reading work!> of Shakespeare hy the llagpolc on South Quad this morning from I 0 a.m. until 1 p.m. Dressed in cloaks. the Notre Dame chapter will collect donations to benefit SisttT Marita's Primary Day Scl10ol. The dramatic readings are an annual tradition of the fraternity. -The Ohserz•er 
The Curriculum Committeeofthe University 
announced this week that it is re-examining the core requirements for graduation. The committee is examining both the necessity of some n:quirements and the structure ofsome courses. Additionally, the committee is considering adding a mandatory computer course for freshmen and sophomores. Provost Timothy O'Meara and Vice Chairman Father Edward Malloy head the committee. -The Ob~ 
sert'er 

VVeather · · 
Partly sunny at game time. Tailgaters will en­joy highs in the low ..,Os. Partly cloudy tonight. Low upper 50s. Partly cloudy tomorrow with chan<.T ofshowers. lligh around 80. -AP 


The pilgrimage to the University for the first home football game began building up force yesterday ciS a/urns and parents alike des­cended upon Notre Dame. Coun­terclockwise from above, Mike ':"iuper Fan" Gretkowski pleads for two tickets near tbe Bookstore. 
Mike Kroll has control of his daughter Denise while walking along the SouthQuad. DickEichten 
( l. to r.),jobn Ulrich and Dan Coc­coran, all from Stillwater, Minn gather infront ofthe stadiwnfor a cup oftheir favorite beverage. They Stry they've /Jeen coming to ND games for 8 years. Andfinally, the Bookstore crowds continue today in search of all the Notre Dame paraphernalia. -Photos ~ Thorn Bradley. 



_ The_Obs.erYer_ 
Composition Editor.................. Tom Small 
Peruse The Observer Today page care·
layout.\'taff.................. Mark, !lob and)etf Typesetters .......................... Tom and Kevin 

fully for the next three weeks ...
News Editor.................... llob Vonderheide CopyEtiitor....................... Mark Worscheh Sports Copy Etiitor.....................)eff lllumh 
Features Layout ................ Sarah Hamilton 
ND Day Editor ....................... Dehhie Stack .\MC Day Editor............... Mary Ann Potter Ad Desl11.n ............................................... Mary Pboto11.rapber ....................... Thorn Bradley 
Guest Appearances...... Old Ohservcrices 
includin): Chris and Pam Smith, South Bend. and Thomas). O'Neil, New York. (Class of 1977) A inehriated Fos, John 
"Fruit Fly" Coen, Fos' roomie Martha. 
The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Fr1day and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacahon penods The ObMrver IS publl shed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1n1 Marys College. Subscnpt1ons · may be purchased lor $25 per year 

There will soon be a contest to deter·
($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The ObNrver. P 0 Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

mine this year's campus comic strip! 
The ObMrVer is a member of The Auocl8ted Preu. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
-Ibe____Qbsener=======!~!!~:~~e~-~ar~ .......... David Dziedzic Department Managers 
/lox !_). !Vt •tn• /)a me. /\' -16 'i 'i(> I 11 'J) 13')-'i303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager. _............. Daniel O'Hare 
The ( )hs«'TH.,. "rht' mtkpemknt nn~·spaper puhhsht·d hv the students of the Llni­Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ..... _................ Alex Szilvas n-rslfv ol Notrt· l>anll" du Lac and ~aifll Man·'s College It docs not neccssarilv rellect News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen rhe poliut·, ol the admm.-trarion ol t'lther mstilution. Tht· new' is reported as at­News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzauue i..a Croix curatdv and as ohjtTII\TI\· as pos.-.hk l n'ignnl nllforials n·presenr tht· opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor ... ......... Anne Monast)a"~~~/ Circulation Manager . .... __ ....... Mark Miotto nt.JIOflt\' ol the hhtonallloard (:ommentant·'· kut·rs. and tht· lnsidt· Column prt·sent Features Editor . ............... Sarah HamiltoA System Manager ......... , ..... Kevin Williams tht· new' oltht·1r authors <.olumn 'pace ts a\·a•lahk to all membt·rs oltht· communlfv. Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower a nell he lnT t·xpn·ss•on or Lln·ing op1mons on c1mpus. through ktters. '' t·nn>uraged. 
Sports /;"ditor. . ........ \liehad Sullivan_ Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer Saturday, September 17, 1983 -page 5 


Dogbookarrives 
Freshmengangedup around the table inlaFortuneStudentCen­ter whereDog Books, alias Freshman Registers, were beingpassed outyesterday. The book contains thepictures and a briefdescrip­tion ofal t l Notre DameandSaintMary'sfreshman. Itproves to be an invaluableaidforsome in the searchforSYRdates. 
By MICHELE MARCHAND 
News Staff 
Only two of the original 41 stu­dents temporarily housed in study lounges are still without a per­manent room. 
But until more housing is built on campus, more students may have to put up with temporary housing next year, according to Director of Housing Father Michael Heppen. 
This year, as dormitory space 

became available, the University 
moved the students to another 
room. 
During the first two weeks of school, all the men on waiting lists were moved out of the Grace and Flanner lounges. 
And as ofThursday, all but two of the women were moved out of the Pasquerillas. Many characterized the final move as a relief -a feeling of finally belonging, although there was difficulty in leaving new friends behind. 
Encephalitis epidetnic hits area, ND researcher says 
ByAMY STEPHAN 
Copy Editor 
The South Bend area is "right in the middle of an encephalitis epidemic," according to Dr. George Craig, director of the Notre Dame vector-biology laboratory. 
Ten cases of Eastern Equine En· cephalitis were reported in horses in St. Joseph and Elkart counties last week. 
This is the first time since 1975 that EEE -a disease that usually af­fects horses, but can affect humans -ha-; occurred in St. Joseph county, said Craig. A widespread epidemic of EEE took place in Michigan and parts ofnorthern Indiana in 1980. 
Craig said there is no known cure for EEE and his department is "not doing much but keeping score." 
"There is very little we can do to stop it," said Craig, adding that he is "not prepared to recommend a spraying program at this time," be· cause there are not enough cases. If the number of cases increases, however, he will consider recommending a spraying program. 
For now, Craig said he is "praying for snow." 
The mortality rate for EEE is 60 to 80 percent. Although a vaccine is available for horses, the vaccine it· self has a 1 percent mortality rate and is therefore too dangerous to be used on humans. Craig emphasizes, however, that the disease is rare in humans. 
EEE is an explosive disease which usually occurs in outbreaks or epidemics, said Craig. It is difficult to predict where or when outbreaks 



Cap'n Crunch 
Only 2 students still lack permanent housing 
will occur. 
Researchers are not sure what in­sect transmits the virus from one or­ganism to another. Craig said that coqutllettidis perturbans, a type of mosquito which breeds in lakes or swamps where there are emergent reeds, is a suspect. 
This species is "difficult to study, because it cannot be raised in the lab," said Craig. Coquil/ettidis larvae attach themselves under· water to hollow reeds and breathe through these reeds like air tubes. 
"If we are right, it's a tough species to get rid of," said Craig, who was named a member ofthe Nation­al Academy of Sciences last April. "The only way to destroy the larvae is to get rid ofthe cattails and other water reeds or drain the lakes and swamps where they live." 
The EEE virus is maintained in a cycle between bird-; and insects that inhabit a swamp or lake. One type of mosquitoe spends its entire life in the swamp and doesn't infect humans or horses. The virus can he picked up by a coquillettidia, if it bites a disea~e-carrying birds. In· fected coquillettidia can then pass the disea'ie onto men and horses. 
Craig, the George and Winnifred Clark professor of biology, said that every species of mosquito is down this year except for the coquillet­tidia. "This is not surprising," he said, "because they are not depend· ent on rainfall to breed." 
Humans afflicted with EEE can ex­perience a stiff neck, disorientaion. fever and pain all over, leading often to coma and death. 
"Pharmaceutical companies are 
making no particular effort to research this disease because there's 
no money in it," said Craig. Because several years can pass with no out­
breaks of EEE in a particular area, Craig said it is difficult to obtain funds to research this disease. "How 
do you convince people of the economic value of a disease that didn't happen?" he asked. The Notre Dame vector-biology 
laboratory is currently researching~~ different type of encephalitis, l.a Crosse. Craig said that the lab docs not plan to research EEE in the near future because "we have enough to do with La Crosse. We can only solve 
one problem at a time." 
~-----------------~--------------~ 
: I 
I 
I I I 

Earlier this week, Heppen said there no longer was housing problem l:>ecause most of the tern·· porarily housed students have rooms. 
Heppen said students should l:>e able to adjust to any emotional dif­t1culties caused hy the temporary housing ifthey wish to attend Notre Dame. He said the Department of Student Housing, however, actually has no say in the enrollment num­ber. 
It all began with an apologetic let­ter from the housing department in late July. Due to an unusually large number of acceptances this year, there were not enough rooms to house all the incoming freshmen. On Aug. 26, the University placed the 41 students in study lounges in Flanner, Grace, and the two Pasquerillas. 
Kim Kohlhaas, a freshman from St. Paul, Minn., explained that when she first got the letter from Heppen, she pictured a huge, uncarpeted room with 40 women and a draft. 
The administration tried to 
provide the study lounges with all 
the comforts of a permanent room. 
Each lounge had three beds, three 
new wardrobes and two desks. 
But some complained that for a week there were no locks on the doors. 
The emotional aspect of living in the lounges was much more difficult to adjust to. Pasquerilla freshman 
Julie Pietras said, "It was just like being a visitor. For the first week we were still giving out of our suitcases." 
Some of the freshmen was adjust· ing to the change once they were finally moved out of the lounges. Having made friends in their tern· porary dorms, it was hard to move. 
Some students said she felt vic­
timized by a cold, impersonal 
computer. Pietras said one reason 
she chose Notre Dame was because 
she said it does not treat students by 
their I.D. numbers. 
JOANBENOIT ... SPORTSMED 10K WEEKEND...JIMSPIVEY : 
Sponsored By: Sports Medicine/Health Awareness of St.Joseph's Medical Center1 
Health Fair* Clinic* Banquet* 1OK * Fun Run • 
continuedfrom page 3 
dustry to sponsor events on campus. 
"Our policy is to say no to all beer and tobacco companies. Any other requests we consider on a individual basis ...This is the first big event we've approved." 
McDonnell said that part of the reason the event was approved was because the idea was initiated by the , sophomore class. He added that in order for any corporate-sponsored event to be approved, it would have to be sponsored by an inside group. 
"Had they (Quaker Oats) come to us, we would have probably said no," said President for Student Af­fairs Father John Van Wolvlear. 
The event was not, however, ap­proved as it was first proposed by Quaker. Van Wolvlear insisted that no events be held on Saturday, or in the stadium. 
Van Wolvlear said that he is "not overly plea'ied with the extent ofthe celebration. We're here to study, not eat Cap'n Crunch." 
Saturday, October 1 
* 
Health Fair /Running Expo 11 a.m.-5 p.m. (Century Center) 

* 
Race Registration/Packet Pick-Up (Century Center) 

* 
Clinic with Jim Spivey and Dr. David Costill, 2:30p.m. (Century Center) 

* 
Pre-race Banquet (Marriott Hotel) 

* 
Race Director's Workshop 11 a.m.-3 p.m. (Century Center) 

* 
Joan Benoit -Jim Spivey Clinic ­8 p.m. (Century Center) 



Sunday, October 2 1 
* 
Sportsmed 10K at 2:00p.m. I 

* 
Computerland Fun Run 2:05p.m. I 

* 
Scenic course starts and finishes near Century Center, South Bend, IN

* 
Individual, open, school, and corporate team competition

* 
Over $1,000 in random merchandise prizes

* 
$5,000 TAC prize 


* 
Post Race Party-Century Center 

* 
T-Shirts 




Last Name••••• _. ____ •••••••••• ____ • _. _First Name. ___ • • • ••••••••••••••• __ • Mailing Address ••••••••• _••••••• ____ • ____ •• __ •• ____ ·• _. _• _____ • ____ •••• ____ _ 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Zip•••••••••• Age•• _. __ • Male•• __ ._ Female. __ _ Team Status (check, If appropriate) Open •••• _•• School. ••• ___ Corporate••••••••• Exact Team/School Name•• _•• __ • ___ •••• __ ••••••••••• _••••• _•••••• _••••••••• 
Sportsmed 10K, age 12 and over •••••• $8 (after 9-27-83 $10) 
Sportsmed 1OK, age 12 and under • • • • • • $6 
Fun Run, age 12 and over ••••• _ $8 
Fun Run, age 12 and under •••••• $6 
Banquet ••••••• _•••••• _•• _•••••••••• $8 each 
• • • • • • • • Total (check payable to Sprtsmed 10K) 
WAIVER (MUST BE SIGNED) In consiqer~tion of the foregoing, I for myself, my heirs, e)(ecutors and administrators waive and re­lease any and all rights and claims for damages I may have against any of the sponsors or organizers of this event for any and all claims of damages, demands~d~..uons whatsoever which may arise as are­sult of my participation in this event. I attest and verify that I am physically fit and have sufficiently trained for the complet1on of this event and my physical condition has been verified by a licensed medical doctor. Further, I grant full perm1ss1on to any and all of the foregoing to use my likeness for any purpose whatsoever. 
Signature and Date 

(Parent"s signature if under 18)_________________ • _______________________________________ _ 
Clip and se11d to: Sportsmed 10K, P.O. Box 6574, South Bend, IN 46660 Additional entries available from: BurQer King, Athletic Annex. Hook's, Computerland 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Saturday, September 1 7, 1983 -page 6
The Observer 
New SMC college center eases social space need 
By THERESA GUARINO 
Stat] Reporter 
It took two yetr~ and SI. 1 million 
dollar'. but no i~ complaining. 
Tht• new llaggar Collt:ge Centn -OJltT tlw Alumn;tl' Centenni;tl Library -b ju~t what Saint Mary\ 'tutknt.' and t;tnJity ha\T wanted for 
•1 long time. 
The n·ntt·r wa~ otlicially ded­icated in a ceremony yesterday. en­ding a Wt'l'k designated as "lkdic.:ation Wet·k" at Saint Mary's. 
The nt·w college center provides much nt•etkd inti>rmal social space on campus. It include~ tht· Shaheen Bookstore on the ground floor. And oftkes. previou~ly located all over campu~. art· now centt-red in the llaggar Center. 
Student <iovernment, Scudent Ac­tivities, I st Source Travel, The Ob­senJer and the Hlue Mantle yearbook have relocated there, in addition to a I st Source Bank branch olfict:. 
Many studt·nts and staff involvt:d in sllldt·nt organizations hope that the nt·w accc~~ibility of the otlkes will encourage mort: participation in student government and ac­tivities. 
"I would hope that tht:re would he more involvement. simply he­cause students can sec tht:se people a~ active," said Senior Class Presi­dent Kathleen Murphy. "Before, they wert: all tucked away in the basement of Regina and no one knew they were there. I can see im­provement in participation now simply because we're more visible." 
The snack bar has expanded its line in the new center. New menu option.~ indude Bun Appetite (a grill line), a Deli, the Corner Market (cash and carry) and the Wild Pizza. 
Addreee --------­City ______ 
State ­
Zip 
Send check or money order to SCRUBS 
P.O. Box 595, Bethel Puk, PA 15102 
Shirt,  S,  M,  L, $ 9.95  
Pante,  S,  M,  L, $11.95  
Set,  S,  M,  L. $19.95  


Circle eize and write in the number of SCRUBS (Plus $1.50 for Postage and Handling) 





EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 

"The Snack Bar is a lot nicer since its more centralized," commented senior Kate Livingston. "They're still in an organization process hut once they get through it, things will be great, especially weeknights, after the library." 
Tht: llaggar Center also includes 
met:ting, recital and movie rooms. in 
addition to a hospitality lounge. 
Also, a large dance area was added, 
enabling organizations to have more 
dances on campus including dances 
like the "Chance to Dance" at Notre 
Dame. 
Sophomores Lisa Wilson and Ann Murphy agree that the social space was needed "It's a nice diversity as compared to what we used before in that now we have a place to enter­tain," said Murphy. 
The Berezny Game Room holds video games, pool tables and ping pong tables. A terrace added to the Marti Jones browses through the new tradebook shelf in the Shaheen 
rear ofthe building provides a place Bookstore. Tradebooks are a new addition to the bookstore which for studying and socializing in warm to the new addition ofthe College Center from the basement weather. LeMans Hall. 
Haggar marks 21 years of"WOrk 
The()ho;(:rn::riJ>.wl Clfurclli 

By ANNE MONASlYRSKI 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Nearly 21 years ago -hefore many of today's seniors at Saint Mary's were born -Sister Mary Renata, then president of the Col­lege, announced the formal opening of the College Social Center as "a facility which we all, as a family, can use in proper respect." 
It was the first center designated specifically as social space for stu­dents and faculty, was located under the foyer ofO'Laughlin Auditorium. 
After the basement of O'Laughlin was renovated, a snack counter, furniture and decor were put in at a cost of uo.~o. The center boasted..' central air-cnmiitloning, a recrea­tion room, a TV lounge, snackbar and vending machines and art dis­play section wbich exhibited the work of several art students. A 
sunken patio off the south side of 
O'l.aughlin was added for outdoor 
recreation. 
·-Today, the space is occupied by 
the art department and Moreau 
Gallery. 
Saint Mary's has progressed during the past 20 years, and the new Haggar College Center can claim more than central air con­ditioning. 
The first center was designed to provide a ~'daily atmosphere for Saint Mar}."s students to relax and entertain their guests, t " and was "open to the public (meaning Notre Dame men) only by individual in­vitation," according to an issue of The Crux, the former Saint Mary's newspaper. 
Before the College Social Center, social space was scatterred through­out the campus. Angela Hall, built in 1892, the first recreational space 
COSIMO HAIR DESIGN 18461 St. Rd. 23 277-1875 
Men: Regularly $14, Special Price $10 • Women: Regularly $20, Special Price $1S • 
•with coupon 

created on campus, but Angela was 
the campus gym, convocation cen­
ter, and other things as well. 
When Holy Cross Hall was com­pleted in 1903, the Pebble Lounge was used for student recreation and as a meeting area. The Pebble is located in the basement of Holy Cross. The parlors in Holy Cross were used as they continued to be used today. 
LeMans Hall has provided space for many social events in the history of Saint Mary's. Several rooms and wings were used by students as dance halls, recreational rooms and m~lng rooms. The first floor busi­ness office wing was the social hall in 1925.·. 
IJ~ before SAGA's snack bar meant The Oriole, located at the east end of LeMan's basement. It was the student snack har until 1966, when the diritng hall was completed. 
UQtil the first center was con­structed in 1962. Saint Mary's had no centralized meeting place or recrea­tional area. Today, Saint Mary's has not just a social center, hut a veritahle college center, with a central location providing all stu­dents (no individual· invitations re­quired), faculry, administration and guests with meeting rooms, offices, a ballroom, snackbar, rec room and bookstore -all in one. 
The center is named in honor of Haggar Foundation of Dallas, which donated SSOO,OOO toward the Sl.42 million project. 

r--~--~------------------------------~------~ 

and Restaurant 

WARM ATMOSPHERE 
"a tavern that's more than a tavern" 
Coupon worth $1 for pitcher of beer (Bud & Mich. Dark) 
Best Hamburgers & BBQ Ribs & Chicken in Town 
Open ?am till3am-6 days OPEN SUNDAY NOON TILL MIDNITE 
Live Music & Dancing Beer, Wine, Liquor & Food to Go 
511 S. Michigan St.-South Bend, In 



289-4709 
WE HONOR BOTH 

L---------~---~--------------------------~---~ 

The Observer Saturday, September 17, 1983-page 7 
U.S., Soviet ships pass within 550 yards 
Associated Press 
Soviet and American warships searching for the wreckage of a South Korean jumbo jet in the Sea of Japan came within 550 yards ofeach other Friday and a Japanese admiral said he hoped the search would not spark a shooting incident. 
Rear Adm. Masayoshi Kato of Japan's Marine Safety Agency said the search wao; proceeding peaceful­ly, but added "I hope no shooting incident will occur between the two vessels." 
He said the U.S. frigate Badger and the Soviet guided missile cruiser Petropavlovsk maneuvered close to each other about 20 miles north of Moneron, a Soviet island offSakhalin where the plane is believed to have crashed. 
A soviet interceptor shot down 
the airliner Sept. I and all 269 
people aboard were killed. 
Kato, at a news conference in Wakkanai, Japan's northernmost city, said I8 Soviet boats -includ­ing nine trawlers with nets in the water -were taking part in the search. American boats included the destroyeJ: USS Stark, the U.S. Navy tug Narragansett, the Navy salvage ship Conserver and the U.S. Coast Guard CutterMunro. 
The American-vessels hope to find flight recorders that will shed light on the why the plane flew over Soviet territory and on the final minutes ofthe flight. 

Japanese ships and shore parties found a woman's business card, a child's sandal and a sneaker believed to be from the wreck of the South Korean plane. The business card was the first concrete link to one of the 61 American passengers, police said. 
The card had the name Kathy Brown, which was not on the pas­
senger  list,  but  there  was  a  K.  
Brownspier,  a  female  from  New  
York.  

Officials said personal items col­lected will be put on display in Sap­ooro, Japan, beginning Oct. I and those identified as belonging to vic­tims will be given to families. 
In Tokyo, sound experts decip­hered a few more phrases on the garbled tapes of radio transmissions from the pilot of the plane to . Tokyo's airport, giving the first words from the pilot describing what Wa'i wrong after the plane was hit. The pilot reported "rapid decompression" in the plane SO seconds after it was hit, according to Matsumi Suzuki, director of the 
Japan Sound Research center. The pilot's voice is agitated and highly pitched. 
He then said "one-zero-one," an apparent reference to loss of 
Soviets' w-ord barrage tnost sustained ever 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Lambasting Ronald Reagan as a bloodthirsty "ignor amus," the Kremlin has turned its propaganda barrage over the South Korean airliner into one of the angriest and most sustained per­sonal attacks against any U.S. presi­dent. 
Departing from previous policy toward American presidents, the Soviets have named Reagan in vir­tually every press commentary on the plane over the past two weeks, lending a highly personal touch to the constant flow of anti-American propaganda in the state-controlled press. 
A soviet interceptor shot down 
the South Korean jumbo jet Sept. I, 
killing the 269 people aboard, and 
the Soviet Union has accused the 
United States of sending the plane 
over Soviet territory on a spy mis­
sion. 
Government newspapers have run a series of biting cartoons caricaturing Reagan as a blind cow­boy, a bloody-fanged gorilla and a Nazi-like propagandist bellowing in­to a megaphone. 
"Reagan came out with some statements to the world public at the outset and an attack from Moscow was inevitable," a Western diplomat said yesterday, 
Anti-Reagan rhetoric began right 
after he took office and intensified 
with the president's depiction ofthe 
Soviet Union as an "evil empire." 
During Reagan's embargo on the 
sale of U.S. technology for the 
Siberian gas pipeline, anti-Reagan 
slogans were painted on the pipes. 
The flap over Jimmy Carter's brief-
International probe ordered into downing 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL-The International 
Civil Aviation Organization yester­
day ordered an investigation of the 
Soviet downmg of a South Korean 
passenger jet, rejecting Soviet objec­
tions that the decision was 
"unacceptable to us." 
Meeting in emergency session, the governing council of the ICAO voted 26-2 with three abstentions to accept the resolution "deeply deploring the destruction of an aircraft in commercial international service resulting in the loss of 269 innocent lives." It did not directly condemn the Soviets for their ac­tion. 
The resolution urges all parties ­
including the Soviet Union -to 
cooperate with the ICAO's probe of 
the downing of Korean Air Lines 
Flight 007 on Sept. I. The Boeing 
747 was shot down by jet fighters 
when it entered Soviet air space ing book produced a flurry ofSoviet criticism of the president, and Reagan is singled out in stories about the Middle East. 
But the airliner disaster served as afocus for the Kremlin's clear dislike of Reagan. 
Even before a Soviet fighter shot down the Boeing 747, a Soviet source who insisted on anonymity, predicted personal attacks on Reagan would increase and that their tone would get nastier as the 1984 election approaches. 
With Reagan standing firm at U.S.­Soviet arms talks, opposing the Soviets around the world and spearheading the Western response over the airliner, observers believe the Kremlin would like nothing 
more  than  to  see  him  denied  a  
second term.  
Although  the  source  said  the  

Kremlin would like to tarnish Reagan's image with the American electorate, it appeared questionable that such a Soviet campaign world have that result in the United States. 
In the first "government state­ment" on the airliner, the Kremlin immediately singled out Reagan as the purported mastermind of what the Soviets insist was a spy mission. 
Saying Reagan "makes himselfout as an ignoramus" about internation­al law, the Soviets accused him of fanning anti-Soviet hysteria to dis­rupt the Geneva arms talks and drum up support for his military policies. 
"The flight of the spy plane and the hullabaloo raised by Washing­ton ...are far from accidental," Pravda analyst Vladimir Bolshakov wrote Friday. "On the mudy wave of pathological anti-Sovietism, the White House is trying to get agree­ment ...on all the issues which in the recent past encountered opposi­tion." 

The Soviets have claimed all along that Reagan "callously'' ignored the safe ty of those aboard the South Korean plane, but Bolshakov took that one step farther. He claimed the 747 "was sent deliberately into Soviet airspace with an obvious hope that it would be destroyed by the Soviet Union.." 
The campaign has been or­chestrated to blame Reagan and the Unitea States, to defend the Soviet action and to assure Soviets that the· Kremlin acted properly in shooting down the airliner. 
Some of the commentary on the plane disaster has compared the Reagan administration to the Nazis -an image sure to produce fear and revulsion among Soviets, for whom World War II is a burning and bitter memory. 
"The Nazi parallel seems clearly for domestic consumption," said a Western diplomat, who spoke on condition he not be named. "There is an effort to portray the govern­ment and military in a good light and the anti-Reagan attacks serve as a vehicle for that." 

vvith 
Class 


fipnk
shorter 
sports

wear® 

September 16-18 
pressure, and "two-delta." "Delta" is a word used by pilots to describe change in speed or altitude. 
Previously unintelligible phrases were made audible by an electronic technique to filter out the static, Suzuki said. 
In Moscow, Boris Bugayev, the head ofthe Soviet airline Aeroflot on criticized the United States and the West for imposing sanctions against Aeroflot. He said President Reagan's order closing Aeroflot offices in the United States and forcing American air carriers to sever links with the 
Soviet airline was just the latest ac­tion proving Reagan's "anti-Soviet" intentions. 
In Montreal, Western nations pressed the United Nations' aviation agency to approve a motion condemning the Soviet Union and call for an inquiry into the shooting down ofthe plane. 
DORM 
ROOM 

SPECIAL 
• MITSUBISHI 
-"AUDIO SYSTEMS 
I IIIII '},'} 
• 985'----~-~~ • 

•:->1:>?~ ------------­
receiver \
Great features, great sound and a 3 year warranty! 
Mitsubishi DP-12 Turntable 

, 

A fully automatic belt-drive table with cartridge installed 
GENESIS 


The Basic­Loudspeaker is a compact, full-range speaker with a lifetime warranty 

BASIC LOUDSPEAKER 
~,\0 
0\)U ~\·"·


&'\O 
Go Irish!!! Beat State!!!  FREE,57.99 T-Shirt with shoe purchase (Non-Sale Items) HEx~rcise__Your_f!fg_llJio The Very Best~'-­\Jnl>wer•ity Common• Llnway Piau 8cotlada.. Mall Q) Mishawaka Golhen Iouth Bend • c, :::J ;r;~;~~-~·,­·~~~:=·= ~~~  
When Army Nurses Move, They Take Their Seniority With Them. Anny nurses are officers. They nt:\et" -.,;bymoving, as so often happens in ARMY. BEAllYOU CAN BE.  In the past, when a nation felt threatened by unruly mobs, the Queen called her professionals the Royal Lancers. Today, when you feel threatened by unruly hair, call on the professionals at THE ROYAL LANCER University Commons Courtyard (S.R. 23 next to Tempo Fashions) ~ Walk-Ins are welcome W Weekdays 9·6 Saturday 9-3 Men and Women's Hairstyling 272-7880 . ' -"  
,,401 N. Michigan South Bend, IN 46601 (219) 234-5001 




The Observer Saturday, September 1 7, 1983 -page 8 
Heroin charges filed against KennedyJr. 
Associated Press 
RAPID CITY. S.D. -Robert 1'. Kt·nnedy Jr., whose !light bag was searched as he traveled to South Dakota seeking help for a drug problem, was charged yesterday with heroin possession. 
The felony charge carries a maxi­
mum penalty of two years in prison 
and a S2,000 fine. 
An arrest warrant was issued. 
"We've filed a one-count felony complaint against Mr. Kennedy charging him with possession of heroin," said Rod l.efholz, Pen­nington County state's attorney. 
The 29-year-old son of the late Sen. Robert Kennedy will appear in court in Rapid City within two weeks, l.efholz said, adding he could not be more specific because Ken­nedy has admitted himself to a hospital for treatment of a drug problem. 
l.efholz said he docs not know where Kennedy is being treated. 
The delay in the initial court ap­pearance is not uncommon in drug or alcohol cases, said the prosecutor. 
"Obviously, we don't just jerk 
people out of a hospital bed," he 
said.  "Frankly,  we're  not  too  
worried:'  about  Kennedy  not  
showing up in court, he added.  

Kennedy, a former New York City assistant district attorney, came un­der investigation Sunday after he got sick on a !light from Minneapolis to Rapid City. 
Officials continued to refuse yes­terday to say what led them to get a warrant to search Kennedy's flight bag for "contraband and controlled substances." 
According to Bill Walsh of Dead­wood, a hotel owner and family friend, Kennedy was on his way to the Black Hills to seek help for drug dependency. 
Walsh, a former Catholic priest who has helped establish mental health programs in western South Dakota, said he and Kennedy planned to spend a few days discuss­ing Kennedy's options before he en­tered a drug program. 
Kennedy wa charged after the results of a drug analysis became available Thursday night, said the prosecutor. 
The Oar House Cold Beer& 

Liquor Carry Out Till3 am 

ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
Live OJ and Dancing 
10-3 AM 
"TWO BARS" 


II 
•i 

$ 1 00 otf any p1zza 
Qn, • ·~01 of'<'' per fl!Zl~i. Exr'IIR~ 
Fast. Free Delivery 
f-'h'1n<~ 277-2151 

: I (Ill
1; r5RI 
~~~~-----~----~~-------J 

Druse militiamen in the CboufMountains village the LebaneseAirForce's sixplanes and damaged two . of Kalounia, lebanon, east of Beirnt, man their others.Itwasthefirstcombatmissionfortheplanesin 122mm trnck-mounted multiple rocket launchers more than tenyears. Story below. Thursday. Yestentcry, Druse gunners shotdoum one of 



Gunners dow-n Lebanese jets 
Assoclatcd Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Druse gun­ners bloodied Lebanon's air force on its first combat mission in a decade yesterday, shooting down one of its five operational warplanes, damag­ing two others and forcing a fourth to make an emergency landing in Cyprus. 
As the fighting raged, both Syria and Israel put planes into the air ­Syria on Lebanon's northern border and Israel over southern Lebanon. 

But neither entered the battles, 
which spilled over onto the U.S. 
Marine comgound at the airport and 
the zone around the U.S. and British 
Embassies. 
No Western casualties were 
reported. 
The Lebanese government's ground and air offensive in the mountains came as several days of intense diplomatic efforts by Saudi Arabia and others to gain a cease-fire appeared to break down. 
Western military sources said Lebanon's army was fighting to clean the Druse and Palestinian fighters from villages on either side of the key ridge line from Souk el-Gharb to Kabr-Chmoun, nine to 12 miles southeast of Beirut and high above the capital. 
Army communiques said Lebanese soldiers took the Druse­held towns of Aitat and Keifoun. along with nearby hills. 
Drunk Driving 
continuedfrom page 3 
would mean that a person's license is suspended in those states as well. 
Under the old drunk-driving law, the state had the burden ofshowing that a driver was impaired, even if the Breathalizer reading was .1 0 per­cent or more. The defendant had the right to produce evidence that he was not impaired. 
The state also had to prove that 
there was a "good stop," that the 
defendant was behind the wheel 
when the car was being driven, and 
that the driver was impaired by al­
cohol with a Breathalizer reading of 
greater than .1 0 percent. 
The new law still requires a that the police show there was a "good stop" and that the driver was behind the wheel, hut the requirements for a "good stop" have been altered. 

There must be "articulable suspicion," which is a lesser require­ment than "probable cause" for stopping an automobile. This new requirement calls for a suspicion to which "you can give words to," according to the law. 
Reasons for a stop include any violation of normal traffic laws, any malfunctioning of the car's lights or tum signals, or reckless driving. 
If a driver is found guilty ofdriving 
under the influence, the presiding judge can require the defendant to attend an alcohol program set up by the court system. The defendant still has his license suspended for 30 days. 

The suspension can be for a lon­ger period of time and may be ac­companied by a fine and attorney's fees. 
If a person is caught driving during the period in which his license is suspended, there is a man­datory jail term ofat least 30 days. 
A second conviction of drunk 
driving carries a minimum jail term 
of five days in addition to a possible 
felony charge, at the discretion of 
the county prosecutor. 
Barnes, the county prosecutor, "reserves the right to make final decisons" regarding drunk drivers. 
Barnes said that there will be 
more cars on the street in the 
general area ofthe Five Points, partly 
due to incidents which occurred la~t 
year on days of Notre Dame football 
games. 
Barnes said that there will be "a step-up in visibility" intended to be a deterrent "The object is not to ar­rest everybody." 
One of the means by which the 
department~ intend to enforce the 
law is the use of roadblocks. 
These roadblocks have faced a 
challenge in the court system. 
"Given certain prerequisites, (the roadblocks) do pass constitutional muster," Barnes said. "Around the 
state  we  are  being challenged in  
court.  We'll  know  the  courts'  
answer  soon.  The Supreme Court  

(in deliberation of the State of Delaware vs. Prouse) has suggested ways in which the roadblocks could be legal." 
Barnes added that there have been six roadblocks already this year. 
During a roadblock, the police will pull over ten vehicles in succes­sion. This is designed to be an indis­criminate fashion in order to avoid charges of discrimlantion. The of­ficer then asks for license and registration and performs a short safety inspection of the car. The of­ficer will check the lights, tum sig­nals, tire baldness and other items. 
If during the course of the presentation of the necessary docu­ments, the officer has a basis to believe that a driver has been drink­ing, he administers a field test. 
If the officer deems it necessary he can take the driver to the St. joseph County jail to administer a Breatalizer test. The officer will secure the car and if the driver fails the Breathalizer test then the driver is given an opportuntity to call relatives and friends to take care of the car. 

ALL YOU CAN EATI 
Everything's Induded ... 
Fried Chicken • Swedish Meat Balls North Atlantic Baked White Fish Lasagna • Homemade Bread Dressing Country Sausage • Amish Style 
l'.S. 31 & Ireland Rd., 

Noodles • 24 Items on the Jenny's Salad Bar • Oven Fresh Biscuits • 
291-9009 
SOl'TH BE""'D 

Hot Vegetables • Wide Variety of 
Beverages & Desserts • Make Your 
Own Ice Cream Sundae! 
FREE BANQUET & PARTY ROOMS TO DINING GUESTS 

Saturday, September 17, 1983-page 9







Showcase 
Who's the lady with the paintbrush? 
ten brings them financial reward. about painting whatever building is 
by Nick Laflamme Mrs. Helen Pike is one such anist. wanted. Recently the I.aw School The wife ofa Notre Dame history chose two ofher paintings to be dis­professor, Mrs. Pike is quietly build· played in the new law center in Lon· 
D
rifting across campus, one often ing a reputation on campus as a don, which was dedicated this pastcomes across people recording talented anist despite having summer. Still, she doesn't considertheir impressions ofNotre Dame in painted for only four years. Often that to be the greatest honor the Uni·
forms more permanent than their seen occupying the same spot for 
versity could confer upon her. She
memories. Some are alumni snap­days on end during the late after­
would love to have the Notre Dame
ping pictures oftheir families on the noon hours, Mrs. Pike staned paint·
old stomping grounds, while others Magazine publish one ofher paint·
ing after retiring as a music teacher 

are anists trying to capture the ings in color, but even that would
in the local school system. She tookbeauty ofthe scenery on canvas. 

an an class as a way ofgetting out of not be her idea ofthe ultimate Many ofthe anists, and photog­the house, and soon discovered a honor. To this fan ofNotre Dame,raphers fall shon oftheir goals simp· hidden talent. 
having one ofher paintings
ly because ofa lack ofskill or 
reproduced in a football program
dedication. Others, however, ex­Mrs. Pike does ac­
perience artistic success which of· cept commisionsand, has no qualms would be her greatest triumph. 

A summer under the Dome 
by Margaret Fosmoe 
D>ur-color glossy brochures ofan .l'idyllic sunny lakeside haven are how most students are introduced to Notre Dame. The brochures are splashed with shotsofthe Dome, the Grotto, the football stadium and smiling students swimming in St. Joseph's Lake and riding bikes. The literature that accompanies them paint a colorful pastoral picture ofa pensive yet carefree midwestern setting. 
Then the students arrive in In· diana and find out that the Dome is closed off, the fish in the lake nibble and it's very hard to maneuver a bike through three feet of...now. 
Most forget all about the brochures and settle in for four years of books, dining hall cuisine and Hoosier weather, punctuated by the occasional football game, happy hour and summer vacation. 
There are some, however, who freely elect to experience a summer under the Dome. 
Asummer on campus is a glimpse at a pan ofNotre Dame that most people never see. It's like finding a way into the founeenth floor ofthe library or sneaking a peek into Hes· burgh's office when the secretary isn't looking. 
A summer under the Dome changes your whole perspective on the place. Any picture ofNotre Dame is not complete without the summer. 
The campus, desened after graduation, takes on a totally dif· ferent personality. For once, the lakes become the focal point. The ducks, no longer tormented by legions of joggers, flock day and night to the nonheast comerofSaint Mary's Lake. 

Wandering across an empty quad without the fear ofbeing decked by a errant frisbee or a careening golf can is an odd sensation. Thousands ofdollars wonh offlowers and greenery added a few weeks earlier for commencement seem to be there just for you. 
One ofthe most striking dif· ferences is the color. Most under­grads are all too familiar with the dull brown ofdying sod in late August and the endless white that pervades a yard deep through most of the winter. But)une at Notre Dame is dripping in a deep brilliant emerald green. 


Adding flair to your tailgater 
aving returned from their rout of Purdue, the Irish will be 
orne this weekend to take on the ichigan State Spanans. In prepara­ion for today, the football team 
as spent the week drilling and practicing and trying to forget that they just walked all over the Boiler­makers. Just as Gerryand the boys are priming for the season home opener, so can you. What better way is there to inaugurate the 1983 
orne season than with a tailgater with your friends? 
This son ofgathering can be amusing, but it can too soon become stale. More often than not, a student tailgater on Green Field becomes nothing more than a keg ofbeer and a swarm of thirsty young Domers. 
One way to avoid a flat tailgater might be to avoid the flat beer. In­stead ofa barrel ofbrew, perhaps a drink to temper the weather. Iflast 
. Saturday's scorching weather makes a repeat performace this weekend, no drink could be more fitting than an Everybody's Irish Cocktail. However, iftraditional football 

' weather sets in, a Hot Brick Toddy may serve better. Both recipes are included on these pages. Pick up a copy of 11r. Boston Deluxe Official Bartender's Guide for more al­ternatives to the suds. ( -11r. Boston Deluxe Official Bartender's Guide, New York, Warner Books, 1982.) May the luck ofthe Irish be with you andyour tailgater. Happy times! 
The handful ofpeople here be­tween the depanure ofthe seniors and the arrival ofthe summer ses­sion students are housed in Lyons and Morrissey. Living in a traditional dorm on one ofthe oldest parts of campus makes one very much aware ofthe history that pervades ND. While the modern decor and com­fons ofthe Pasquerillas and the towers are convenient, there is a sense ofcharacter in the buildings next to the lake that is noticeably lacking on returning to the Tower Quad. 
Nature is very visible. The usual chipmunks, squirrels and birds are everywhere. Watching the growth ofthe new additions to the nearby Domer poultry community becomes a daily habit. And, unless you've spent a summer at Notre Dame, you've probably never seen the muskrats that populate the lakes. 
The things that alums romanticize on football weekends and the stu· dents ridicule the rest ofthe year don't seem so schmaltzy in summer. The campus is very conducive to relaxation and thought. Walks around the lake, a rarity during the year, become second nature. The Dome viewed from across the lake seems just the proper distance to put your life in perspective. 
It's a few·weeks later, when the summersession students arrive, that you're reminded this is a learning in· stitution. Even then, it's different. Classes are more light-beaned, stu­dents and professors are more laid back. 
Warm sunny Saturdays, a rare gift during the year, are plentiful. Some­how, though, Sundays are even bet· ter. During the year, Sundays are hectic irksome reminders that Mon­day looms just beyond the horizon. But a summerSunday at Notre Dame is the way Sundays were meant to be. 
A summer under the Dome also means experiencing the assoned groups that meet at Notre Dame each year. The Charismatics, the sports camps, the Marriage Encoun­ter groups, the home show people, the)ehova Witnesses all dwell on campusfor pan ofthe summer. For a week inJuly when the American Youth on Parade conveneshere, you don't dare go outside without looking up to avoid an ill encounter with a stray baton. 
Alumni take on a whole new ap­pearance in the summer. While chat· ting with a grad experiencing his fiftieth year reunion, it really hits home how ephemeral four years here are. Lewis Hall is transformed into Alumni Family Hall, summer vacation spot for hundreds ofalum and their families. Listening for the 
thinieth time to a middle-aged alum 
describing his carefree undergrad 
years in Lyons to his wide-eyed 
listening progeny cannot help but 
leave one a changed person. 
The summer also means being on 
hand to guess where they're going to 
add the new sidewalks this year, to 
watch the Huddle decor move into 
the '80s and to forge new paths as a 
means ofavoiding the obstacle 
course created by the evening 
sprinklers. 

The best pan ofa Notre Dame 
summer is that, for perhaps the first 
time, you grow to appreciate the 
place. So much ofour time here is 
spent cursing the administration, 
cussing the food and complaining 
about college life in general. But 
watching the bats circle the Dome 
on a clearsummer eveningorsitting 
on the bench next to Old College 
late ona sunnyafternoon changes all 
that. Suddenly you find it doesn't 
matter that the Dome is closed off; 
the fish don't seem as voracious as 
before and somehow you know that 
winter will never return. Even the 
oppressive heat takes a back seat to 
other things. 

In the summer, keg rules don't matter, the food seems almost bareable and campus parking tickets go ignored. Even the transcripts that arrive inJuly listing you as a fresh­man ROTC medieval history major seem laughable. For the· first time, it's really enough just to look around and think to yourself, hey, this place isn't so bad. 
In early August the summer ses­sion students leave and the campus , is once again desened. For a few weeks the campus is your own again. The new sidewalks are dried, the summer ducklings are almost full­grown and the sod is turning brown. 
Then the studentsstan wandering back to campus, you relocate your­selfin your regular dorm and things return to normal. The food is bad again and there's no more time for reflective walks around the lake. Memories ofsummer get pushed to the back ofone's mind. 
But after a summer under the Dome, you never quite view the place in the same way as you did before. When your roommate stans another endless barrage ofIndiana jokes or complaints about a profes· sor, the weather or the football team, you have to smile to yourself. It's almost like knowing a secret. A summer at Notre Dame is a thing that most people never experience. The silver posts look the same and the people don't act any differently, but somehow you're different be­cause you've seen the complete picture. 



Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will play its 
annual alumni game today. The game, which pits former team mem­
bers against the present team, will he played on Cartier Field begin­
ning at 10 a.m.-The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Open golf tournament con­
cludes this weekend at the Burke Memorial golfcourse. It will mark the culmination of a week of competition among approximately 60 undergrads. The tournament consists of72 holes ofstroke play. The top three finishers will receive medallions on plaques ofthe Golden Dome. -The Obseroer 
The ND-SMC Equestrian Club is holding a 
general meeting for all members in Room 2D of LaFortune at 7:00 Tuesday night. All are welcome. Anyone with questions should call Maureen Babis at 283-8004. -The Obseroer 
Saturday, September 1 7, 1983 -page 10 
All Saint Mary's students who are interested in participating in competitive swimming and diving should come to a meeting on Tuesday, September 20, at 10 p.m. in the lounge in Regina that overlooks the pool. -The Observer 
The Women's Golf Team will ne having a man· 
datory 18-hole practice tomorrow. Members should meet at noon at the starting shack at Burke Memorial. -The Obseroer 
A special NCAA committee has recommended 
the basketball tournament committee consider expanding the 
tournament field from 53 to 64 teams, an NCAA official said yester­
day. NCAA officials stressed the committee actions Tuesday were 
only recommendations. The recommendations by the special com­
mittee on Division I criteria must be approved by the basketball 
tournament committee, the executive committee, and the NCAA 
convention. The earliest the tournament field could be expanded 
from 53 teams would be 1985, said Ted Tow, an assistant NCAA 
executive director who serves as liason to the special committee. 
The special committee, which met Tuesday in Chicago, also recom­
mended that the number of automatic qualifiers be limited to one­
halforless ofthe total number ofteams in the expanded field -AP 
• • • Faces 
continuedfrom paxe 14 
game. Allen Pinkett walked through the canyon they had created for 35 yards. 
In all, Irish hacks rushed for .H9 yards, a testament to the effective­ness of their blockers. 
Then there was Mark Bavaro, the heir apparent to Tony Hunter at tight end. While he did not make the number ofcatches that Hunter used to make, he did one thing Hunter could not do at all last year -catch a touchdown pass. 
So, obviously, things look bright for the future. Ifthe new guard con· tinues to improve like it should, there will not be any weaknesses for the opponertts to exploit. 
The Observer LaFortune ofice accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per
Classifieds seven characters, per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE US. GOVERN· MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY' CALL (312) 742-1142. EXT 7316 
THE OBSERVER OFFICE AT SAINT MARY'S IS NOW OPEN MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY FROM 12:30 TO 3. THIRD FLOOR HAGGAR CENTER, 214-53415. 

ILOST/FOUND I 
LOST-NO nng wrth 1nrt1als P.R.M. Dartt purple stone set 1n gold. Call Paul at 239­5313. or at 277·4851 $40 reward. no queSiions asked. 
MISSING YOUR MANNERS? Watch The Observer! 
Lost Art Traditions worltbook. Gardner's "Art Through the Ages" Nama M1m1 Korbuly Please contact the art dept 
LOST 6 KEYS ON A KNIFE KEYCHAIN CALL MIKE AT 8677 
lost. Sliver watch last week. Watch has engraving on the back. II tound call Cohn 8604. REWARD 
LOST---KEY RING WITH 3 KEYS. LOST BEHIND STEPAN ON WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 7. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1421 AS SOON AS POS­SIBLE I 
LOST· Keys on dlgrtal watch cha1n. II found. call Sheila at 2&4-5433. Lost "' area ol Flanner-Grace night ol Sat.. Sept. 
3. 
LOST ONE YELLOW DUCK WITH GREEN EYES. IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO GLADYS IN MCCAND· LESS HALL 
LOST ONE YELLOW DUCK WITH GREEN EYES. IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO GLADYS IN MCCAND-· LESS HALL 
FOR RENT COMPLETELY FUR· NISHED APARTMENT 1 BEDROOM, LIVING ROOM.BATHAOOM.KITCHEN 2 BIG CLOSETS CALL JOE LACOPO 731 DIAMOND AVE 233·2203 
NEEDI:D ONE FEMALE ROOMMATE WITH EXCELLENT STEHEO TO SHARE fOWNHOUSE. CALL 272·5139 

~---W_'A_N_T_E_D____
....J.l 

Wanted: 2 dependable lemales 10 share ltvtng expenses tn a ntce. furntshed house. $150.00 per month (Includes rent and ut1hl18s). Non-smokers please. Call 239-5930 belora 5 00 or 291-9644 af!er 5:00p.m. 
I NEED 2 GA'S OR STU TIX FOR MSU II CALL JOHN AT 3217 
Agress1ve man who ijkes to ~Met people to make appointments lor owner to sell home improvements EARN UP TO 
300.00 PEA WK. ATRANSPORTA­TION FURNISHED Call MR, Calloway 7to 9 pm 2899056 
WANTED· 28" 3-speed bll<e, mens or womens; call272-8229 af!er 5. 
HELPII I NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL PAY $$$ CALL BRENDAN 7791 
WANTED NO-USC t1x. Call 716·377­7075 even1ngs 6-10 p.m. 
NEED 2 MICH STATE GA OR STUDENT-BIG MONEY -CALL JILL 6293 
NEED 2 MICH STATE GA OR STUDENT-BIG MONEY -CALL JILL 6293 
WANTED RIDERS TO AND FROM CLEV BUF OR ROCHESTER OR ANYWHERE ALONG 190. LEAVE THUR 9/22 BACK 9/25 . RICK 1877 
AIDE NEEDED TO MIAMI (OHIO) FRI 9/23 SEAN 277-1405 
WANTED RIDERS TO AND FROM CLEV BUF OR ROCHESTER OR ANYWHERE ALONG 190. LEAVE THUR 9/22 BACK 9/25 . RICK 1877 
RIDE NEEDED TO MIAMI (OHIO) FRI 9/23 SEAN 277-1405 


FO~ SALE 
FOR SALE: STEREO SYSTEM: NAD STEREO RECEIVER, NAD TURN­TABLE, AR SPEAKERS AND STEREO CABINET. CALL JIM OR ANN ANY EVENING BUT PLEASE NOT AFTER 10 P.M. 272-5518. 
Portable TV B/W, good conditiOn $30 277-2543 
POP MACHINE FOR SALE $95 25~ 
9507 
FOOTBALL EQUIPMENT REAL CHEAP-MIKE 1760 
FOR SALE: G.E. 14" COLOR T.V., MAR­TIN D-18 GUITAR WITH CASE, ETRRR STEREO SPEAKERS, ZENITH BINOCULARS, 2 PAIR SNOWSHOES. STEREO HEADPHONES. CALL DAVE AT 272-0387. 
FOR SALE · AEFRIGERTOR, EXCEL· LENT CONDITION 4.3 cubic fl.. largest s1za allowed at NO ONLY 90.00! Call today 277-7392 
Charm1ng Cape Cod close to N.D. at 1501 EaSI Mad1son "' N.E. 2 B.A. panneled bsmt. lam1ly room or studio, 2 baths. lenced yard. Ideal lor professional couple. Pnced to sell at $35.500.00 Forbes/ Vaner 287-7293 Evamngs 291­0810 
LEACH AACKETBALL RACK­ET,GRAPHITE.BEST OFFFEA.277-5153 AFTER 5 PM 
BIG BAA lor BIG PAATIESII Must sell 


!"'-;;~;~;;~· 
TICKETS NEEDED FOR USC-MUST HAVE---CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 
NEED GA TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.PETE 255-91911 
Need 4 GA's for MICH STATE GAME. Call Kra1g at 1608. 
NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA's OR 1 GA AND 1 STUDENT TICKET. CALL KATHY AT 2966. 
I HAVE 4 MSU AND 2 PITT TICKETS, BUT I NEED USC INSTEAD. LETS TALK. CAU JERRY AT x1713 AFTER 
Need 4 MSU GAs; Pat 1238 FOR SALE: 8 MSU tixl Call Dave at 291­2853 af!er Spm or Chip at 284·5283. 

MICHIGAN STATE GA tickets neededl!ll Call Andy at 3676. 
I NEED 2 USC TIX. WITRADE 2 MSU GA'S FOR 2 USC TIX. CALL 284-5532. 
PLEASE HELP! I need 2 GA tickets lor USC. Call Jamos at 6984. 
HELPIll 
This is my parents Wrst trip out ofWest Vir­ginia and they want to see what a real football game is like. Help me out with a MICHIGAN STATE GA. Call ScO/Iy at 1219. 
I NEED 3 MICH. ST. GA's. WILL PAY WELL CALL RANDY AT 6700. 
NEEDED 2-10 tickets for Mich St game Any pnce acceptable Call Bruce at 6760 Can deal lor Colorado.Miami, or Army tickets 
Please Trade I offer 2 Michigan State GA sand$50 lor 2 USC GAsCall Steph 2172 
NEED 4 MSU G.A.'s. WILL PAY BIG BUCKSI CALL KEVIN at 8636 
Relatives coming to see first N.D. game. I need 3 M.S.U. tickets. Call John at 3187 
Desperately need Penn State game tick­ets. Call Bnan at 8795. 
..................... Need 3 stud. 1 GA MSU t1x. Please call Joe 8257 
NEED USC TIX WILL TRADE 2 MSU GA OA PAYBIG$CALL ROB 1193 
NMd 1, 2 or 3GA ttx for Mich. St. ganMI and all ho11M1 games. PleaH call Helen, SMC5501. 
NEED 2 USC GAS CALL BRIAN 6981 
HELPI NEED USC TIX STUDENT OR 
G.A. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277-4309 
NEED MANY MSU GA'S. $$$$$$ CALL 1154 
.............................. 
Desperalely need 2 MSU GA's. Call Mike x8708/8709 
NEED USC TIX. PLEASE CALL 8584. 
WARNING! Selling your two extra MIChi­gan State tickets WILL be a MONEY MAKING EXPERIENCEII CALL PAT 8 762 lor details 
TWO MICHIGAN STATE G.A.'s NEEDED FOR MY PARENTS WHO ARE MAKING THEIR FIRST TRIP TO NOTRE DAME CALL 3211 OR 3209 FOR $$$$$$$$$ 
MSU TIX NEEDED. CALL 1776. 
AVAILABLE 2 MICHIGAN ST GAs!!! WILL TRADE FOR 2 NAVY GAs. CALL ERIC AT 8691 
I NEED 2 MICH. ST. TICS, GA OR STUD. CALL RUSS 1827 $$ 
NEED MSU TICKETS PLEASE CALL TAACY4347. 
MSU TICKET NEEDED. STUDENT OR GA FOR LITTLE BROTHER. CALL LAR· RY 234-9114. 
I NEED 2 MICH. STATE STUDENT TICK­ETS, CALL PAUL 8301 or 3697 
NEED 2 STU. OR 2 GA TIX FOR MSU GAME. CALL JOHN 8301. 
Need MSU stu & GA's. Call1695. 
I need 1 student ticket for MSU. Please call Ann at 1342, late night 1s best. 
NEED 1 TICKET FOR MICHIGAN STATE. CALL SCOTT AT 1219 . 
I NEED 2 MICH. ST. TIX CALL JIM 3597 A horribly burnt child needs 2 G.A. 'sand 1 student ticket to !he M.S.U. game. Please call 289-5379 il you want to make a hor­ribly delormed child very happy. Ask for Slick. 
I NEED 1 GA FOR M.S.U WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR! CALL MIKE 1770. 
Need MSU or USC T1x call Chas. 1588 
Young missvisiting from West VIrginia just got her first pair ot shoes. Now all she nMds to make her Uta complete Is a ticket (student) to the MICHIGAN STATE game. Call Kirk 818765. 
Will trade lor 2 GA's or student tix to M1chi· gan State. Oflenng cash and/or keys to a '76 Pinto Oust kidding). Call KEN at 8767. 
I Have 2 MSU GAs and willing to trade tix and/or SS lor 2 USC GAs II interested or just bored in general MIKE 82001 
NAVY GA'S needed call E~t 1108 
NEED 1 MICH. ST. G.A. CALL TOM AT 4521 
HELPIIII NEED 2 STUD OR GA TIX FOR THE MSU GAME. PLEASE CALL -­JULIE AT 4434!1 
NEED TWO (2) tix, student or GA. lor MSU 8906 
NEEDED· 6 MSU GA TICKETS (PREFER f-AIRS OR BETTER). PAYING BETTER THAN TOP DOLLAR. CALL MIKE ANTONY AT 291-4998 EXT 6328. 
HAVE 2 M.S.U. GA'sl NEED Air Force GA'sl TRADE? CALL DAVE 8238. 
NEED 2 GA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICH. ST. KATHLEEN 284-5515 
NEED 1 MSU GA TICKET Call Schmitty at 1687or 1773 
TRADE -I nMd MSU G/A or student. Will give you Navy ticket. Call Paul at 239­5313 or a\277-4851 -Call anytime, day or night. 
HELP! NEED TIX FOR NAVY AND PITT­CALL PEG 1314 
In DIRE NEED ol 1,2,or3 MSU student or GA tix; Call Scott 3271 
FOR SALE-ONE MSU ST TICKET. BEST OFFER.CALL 289-8363 AFTER 10 
one student season ticket for best offer call bruce af!er 8pm 289·6015 or 272­3619 
I need lour G. A.s for Mich1gan State. Call Bill at 3434. $$$$ 
Need 6 USC GA's and 2 P1t1sburgh GA's and possibly a fa~ry godmother I've got plenty ol gold. Call Kerry at 234-9114. 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 
2845084 

NEED ONE, OR TWO TICKETS TON D. MICH. ST. PLEASE CALL GREG 256­0432 
DESPERATELY WANTEDII! 2 or 4 MICHIGAN STATE TIX. many$$$ to be pa1d. PLEASE call Stacey at x3762. 
FOR SALE· 2 Mich. St. General Admis­sion Tickets. Call1402. 
NEED MSU TIXS CALL 1 584 

7 TICKETS TO M.S.U. ONLY $1400.00. PLEASE CALL 1779 AND ASK FOR SHYLOCK. 
TICKETS WANTED FOR Southern CAL. TOP dollar paid call; 287-6277 HOWIE 
Need 10 G.A.'s to the U.S. C. gama. Will pay any amount for tickets. They need not be together. Please call Dan at 1779. 
MORE DESPERATE THAN ALL THE REST! NEED 1.2 OR 3 GA'S FOR MSU. CALL PAT AT 2160. 
For Sale· Two MSU GA's 50 yd. line. NOT CHEAP. 284-5064 
$$$$ NEED 2 GA TIXS FOR MICH STATE. CALL MIKE AT 1475. 
Need 3 GA's lor MSU game 234-7033 
ATTENTION Need 2 MSU GA TIX Bnan 8315 
MORE DESPERATE THAN ALL THE REST! NEED I .2 OR 3 GA'S FOR MSU CALL PAT AT 2160. 
For Sale Two MSU GA's 50 yd. line. NOT CHEAP. 284-5084 
$$$$ NEED 2 GA TIXS FOR MtCH -8TATE. CALL MIKE AT 1475. 
Need 3 GA's for MSU game 234-7033 
ATTENTION Need 2 MSU GA TIX Brian 8315 
PE~SONALS 
NEEDS$$? 
Uke a challenge? Tum your spare time 1nto money. Groups or individuals needed lo promote college vacation tours. For more Information call· 
(414) 781-0455 orwnte 
Designers on Travel 4025 n. !24th St. Brookfield, Wise. 53005 
MULTIMILLIONAIRE FRIEND WILL PAY MULTI-DOLLARS FOR 4-8 TICK­ETS TO MSU OR USC. CALL BILL AT 
x1713. 
I need 1 student ticket lor MICh. State. Call Mike x8770. Thank-you. 
Proper MANNERS are a sign of good breeding .. 
Bill 'BUBBLES' Bastedo. although I no longer live at Notre Dame, my leelings for you still are the same and I remember your infamous luvtub without shame 
INTRAMURAL BEER DRINKING TEAM Call and sign up NOW. The Brewery 3482 
Any type of FILM for only S50. Call1312 for more Information. 

PARTY-PARTY·PARTY Sodom and Gomorrah 1406 South Bend Ave. Thla Friday nile All are welcoma to come out and prepere lor Mlch St. PARTY­PARTY-PARTY 
Boston club Kickoff Tallgatar Mem­bers, friends and parents welcome. Come one, come all. Plenty of refreshments. Beg1ns at 11 a.m. 
APPLICATIONS fOR JUDICIAL 80 AT STUDENT ACTIVITIES IN HCC OR 174 LM 
Boston Clubbers come pahty before Michigan State. Ta1lgater by sen1or bar. Everyone must come. Start1ng around 11 
a.m. 

Everyone welcome to the Boston Club Tallgater. Bring parents and lriends to the pahty near SeniOr Bah. Aefreahm-s as usual 
THE OBSERVER Sa1nt Mary's office IS now Open lrom 12:30 to 3 ·oo, Monday through Friday, 3rd floor, Haggar Center, 284·5365. 
Going home early lor October break? L.A. GAL NEEDS 4 G.A.'S to see NO beat USC. Will pay MUCHO $plus I'll take you to DINNER! call Michelle 284·4138 
Kathy and Alice· As we promised, here are a few words of wisdom from your Qenerous guardians 1n Grace. Have aWild 11me dunng your lirst NO football game. but alway remember YOUR BIG BROTHERS AARE WATCHING YOU! 
P.S. You can bnng the w1ne for dinner 
VERA. HERE IS THE PERSONAL THAT I ALWAYS PROMISED YOU. NITAKUN­GODEA MILELE 
Welcome to NO Bernadine, the Wildest Croat1an mother 1n Arkansas--I hope you have a most enjoyable parent's weekend!!! Love, Your Baby-Kim 
Mom. Dad. Carne, Katie, and Greg­Welcome to Notre Damell I'm glad to have you all here-you're guaranteed a good lime (especially you Camel) And we may even w1n the game II Love. Megan 
GORGEOUS (Mark Bassett)· Welcome back to NDI I've m1ssed you. Thank you for our three special, wonderful years. Look~ng forward to ma ny more. I love you. -Mary 
MIND YOUR MANNERS 
MIND YOUR MANNERS 
MIND YOUR MANNERS 
NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH. ST. PLEASE CALL 272-5651. 
THE DOME WELCOMES C & J ENGINEERING TO NOTRE DAME. HAVE A GREAT WEEKENDIII 
OK. Sports Fans I Here are my fliCks lor Week 2 of the season. Aga1n. all picks are aga1nst the published point spread, and not neces­sarily the outcome ol the game. 
Georgia over CLEMSON Iowa over PENN STATE OKLAHOMA ovar Ohio State M1ch1gan over WASHINGTON Texas over AUBURN ILLINOIS over Stanlord MIAMI over Purdue MARYLAND over West Virg1n1a Missoun over WISCONSIN Arizona State over UCLA Northwestern over SYRACUSE DUKI:: over South Carolina M1Ch1gan State over NOTRE DAME 
TENNEESSEE KEGGER II ALL NO & SMC STUDENTS INVITED. ESPECIAL· L Y THOSE FROM TENNESSEE. SEE Y'ALL THERE I 
NEW FACUL TV MEMBER FROM PALESTINE NEEDS HELP GETTING ORIENTED TO SOUTH BEND. SHE HAS A CAR AND DRIVER'S LICENSE. BUT NEEDS HELP LEARNING MAIN STREETS. NEIGHBORHOODS, ETC.. CAN YOU VOLUNTEER YOURSELF ONE OR TWO AFTERNOONS IN THE NEXT WEEK? CALL LYNN AT 239-5293­·CSC 
Dave· A little less teeth!!!-From the many lnends ol P1f. 
Frank McCafferty The International Male 
ALL JACKSON PARTIERS WELCOME TO THE BREWERY!! ARE YOU READY TO PARTY?! 
Dr. Mark, Do they teach you how to g1ve bourbon shoals in mad school? Live 1t up. birthday boyI! Love. Sparlty 
TOM O'LEARY STUDY SESSIONS WITH YOU ARE SO REWARDING II LET'S KEEP IT UP. HAVE A HAPPY 20THII LOVE, SHERYL AND JODY P.S. Tim. will I ever reach the differential eqLia­IIOn level? 
Rich cousin stra1ght from IRELAND ready to party lor MSU weet<end but doesn't have a ticket! call John at 8830 to help out the lad. 

The Observer Saturday, September 17, 1983-page 11 
Aussie II appeal sinks 
NEWPORT, R.I. (AP) -Australia II, unable to win on the water, lost on land as well Friday when an inter· national sailing jury denied its protest oflJ.S. defender Liberty's vic· tory in the second race of the America's Cup. 
The decision leaves intact Liberty's 2·0 lead in the best-of· seven series, with the third race scheduled for today. 
The Australians had claimed that Liberty skipper Dennis Conner tO\cked into their water on the second windward leg Thursday, cut­ting too sharply to the left in front of the challenger and forcing Aussie helmsman John Bertrand to veer off to avoid a collision. 
A five-member jury ofthe lnterna· 
tiona! Yacht Racing Union, after 
hearing more than four hours oftes­
timony and evidence, upheld 
Liberty's l minute, 33 second vic· 
tory. 
The jury ruled that the two boats cleared by about 4 feet at their closest point, not 18-24 inches as claimed by the Australians. 
And the jury said Australia H, "moving marginally slower than Liberty," could have kept clear either by maintaining her course and passing astern or, as she did, veering off. 
The Australian syndicate head, Alan Bond, said his bowman had been in better position to judge the distance between the boats and vowed not to drop the matter, al· though he would not say what recourse he had. 
"We were not satisfied that the 
photo evidence submitted was suffi­
cient," Bond said. 
"I thought we would win the 
protest. I'm surprised that we didn't 
and I'm very disappointed." 
Liberty's crew " :s predictably 
satisified with the decision, at least 
the sixth time in America's Cup his-
Basketball all-star· game set 
INDIANAPOUS(AP)-A college basketball all-star game, co­sponsored by the national Order of Elks and the Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame, is scheduled for May 5 in Market Square Arena, officials of the two organizations announced 
yesterday. 
NBA talent scout Marty Blake, who is on a committee to select players after the National Collegiate Tournament next spring, said the game is expected to attract 20 ofthe best senior players in the country. 
"And I guarantee you we will have two of the greatest coaches in the history of college basketball to coach the game," Blake added with­out elaborating. 
The Elks-Hall of Fame game will follow the championship round of the Elks Hoop Shoot Contest, also scheduled for May 5 in Market Square Arena. The finals ofthe Hoop Shoot, which draws more than 3 mil­lion boys and girls between the ages of8 and 13 for a national free-throw shooting contest. have been here since 1980. 
Lee Williams, exe~utive director of the Naismith Hall of Fame, said both groups of officials are working for a national television contract for the all-star game. fk added that the NCAA is expected to sanction the ' game jan. 4. 
Both the Elks and the basketball 
llall of Fame, located at Springfield, 
Mass., are non-profit organizations. 
Proceed~ from the game are to help finance construction of a new llall of Fame at Springfield. Brady 'aid more rhan SR million already has been rai~d fur the $11-million huilding. 
Baseball Standings 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 
w L Baltimore 89 56 Detroit 84 63 New York 82 63 Toronto 81 66 Milwaukee 79 66 Boston 71 77 Cleveland 64 82 
West Chicago 87 60 KansasCrty 70 75 Texas 69 79 Oakland 66 81 California 65 81 Minnesota 64 84 Seattle 55 91 
Yesterday's Resuns Boston 6, Detroit 1 Baltimore 8. Milwaukee 1 New York at Cleveland ppd. Chicago 7. Seattle 0 Minnesota 11, Toronto 4 Kansas City 6. Oakland 5 California 8, Texas 6 
NATIONAL LEAGUE  
Pet.  GB  East  
.614  w  L  Pet.  GB  
.571  6  Philadelphia  77  70  .524  
.566  7  Pinsburgh  77  70  .524  
.544  10  Montreal  75  71  .514  1.5  
.537  11  St. Louis  73  73  .500  3.5  
.460  19.5  Chicago  65  62  .442  12  
.438  25.5  New York  61  86  .415  16  
West  
.592  Los Angeles  85  62  .578  
.483  16  Atlanta  81  65  .555  3.5  
.466  18.5  Houston  76  70  .521  8.5  
.456  20  San Diego  73  74  .497  12  
.445  21.5  San FranCISCO  69  78  .469  16  
.432  23.5  Cincinnati  68  79  .463  17  
.377  31.5  
Yesterday's Resuns  
Pittsburgh 9, Montreal 0  
Cmc1nnati 8, Houston 3  
Atlanta 6, San Diego o  
Philadelphia 3, St. LOUis 2 13 innings  
Chicago 7, New Vorl< 4  
San FranCISCO 1, Los Angeles 0  

tory that a foreign protest had been denied. 
Only twice has a race result been overturned, and both of those were foreign victories, by the Australian challenger Gretel II in 1970 and by the British boat Valkyrie Ill in 1895. 
"The facts weren't much different than what came from the crews," said Tom Whidden, tactician -on Liberty. "It was just a matter of how close the boats were and how the jury determined the rule." 
The jury said that when the inci­dent happened, with Australia II on port tack and Liberty on starboard tack, the challenger was about one boat length from the defender but 

"The course sailed by Australia II was clearing Liberty's stern," the ruling said. 
But as Uberty began her turn, Australia II tacked away, clearing Liberty's stern anyway. 
"When Australia ll's how and Liberty's stern swung toward each 
other, they cleared by about 4 feet at their closest point," the decision said. 
Earlier, Bertrand said after testify· ing at the protest hearing that videotape ofthe race supported the Australian claim. 


,:,aruroay, ~eptember 17, 1983 -page 1~ 


continuedfrom page 14 

that helped the Reds to their fourth 
consecutive victory. Bruce Berenyi, 
8-14, allowed six hits over eight in­
nings for the victory. He also helped 
himselfby collecting three hits. 

Esasky started the fourth-inning 
outburst against rookie Jeff Heath· 
cock, 1-1, with his 12th homer to tie 
the game 3-3. Paul Householder 
then walked, stole second and 
scored on a throwing error by first 
baseman Ray Knight to put the Reds 
ahead. Berenyi's double chased 
Heathcock, who was making his first 
major-league start. 


Braves 6, Pads 0 

ATLANTA (AP) -Dale Murphy 
slugged out four hits and Craig 
McMurtry tossed a four-hitter last 
night as the Atlanta Braves clipped 
the San Diego Padres 6-0. 

Murphy, who had his first four-hit game of the season, now has 28 hits in his last 54 at-bats. Murphy started Padres starter Tim Lollar toward his 11th defeat in 18 decisions when he doubled to lead offthe fourth. 
One out later, Brad Komminski, the International League Rookie of the Year, belted another double to make it 1-0. Bruce Benedict then followed with another double. 
McMurtry, 13-9, had made 10 starts without a victory. He struck out five and walked one. 
Cubs 7, Mets 4 

NEW YORK (AP) -Rick Reus­chel, making his second start since being recalled from Class A, went 7 and 2/3 innings for his first major­league victory since 1981 as the Chicago Cubs beat New York Mets 7-4 last night 
The 34-year-old right-hander, sidelined for all of the 1982 with a shoulder injury, allowed five hits while striking out two and walking one in getting his first decision ofthe year. Reuschel, called up from Quad Cities of the Midwest League on Sept. 3, last won in the major leagues on Sept. 23, 1981, when he was pitching for the New York Yankees. 
Mike  Torrez,  9-16,  allowed  all  
seven  runs  in  5  and  II 3  innings  
pitched.  


O's 8, Brewers 1 
BALTIMORE (AP)-Rookie Mike Boddicker, backed by a I 7-hit at­tack, scattered seven hits to lead the Baltimore Orioles to an 8-1 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers last night for their 20th victory in 24 
games. 
The victory, along with Detroit's 6-1 loss at Boston, lifted the Orioles six games ahead of the Tigers atop the American League East. 
Boddicker, 14-7, recalled from the minor leagues on May 5, lowered his ERA to 2.72, second best in the American League, losing his shutout when Robin Yount homered to lead offthe ninth inning. 
The Baltimore attack included five doubles and a triple, with seven different players driving in one run apiece. Cal Ripken Jr. had two doubles and a single, while AI Bumbry contributed to three rallies with a walk, a single and a double. 
Milwaukee starter Tom Candiotti, 4-2, allowed seven hits before being lifted with two on and none out in the third. He was charged with four runs. 
• • • Baseball 

Angels8, Rangers6 

ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -Darryl Sconiers hit a two-run double and scored on right fielder Tommy Dun­bar's two-base error to cap a four­run eighth and give the California Angels an 8-6 victory over the Texas Rangers yesterday. 
The Rangers had broken a 4-4 tie in the seventh when Dave Hostetler, who homered in the fifth inning, drew a one-out walk offreliever Rick Steirer, and George Wright singled 
him  to  third  before  Dunbar  
delivered  an  RBI single  up  the  
middle.  


Sox 6, Tigers 1 
BOSTON (AP) -Rick Miller drove in the tie-breaking run with a pinch triple in the sixth inning, and the Boston Red Sox added four more runs in the seventh last night, ending Detroit's six-game winning streak with a 6-1 victory over the Tigers. 
The loss, coupled with Bal­timore's 8-1 victory over Mil­waukee, dropped the second-place Tigers six games behind the Orioles in the American League East. 
Miller, who signed a two-year contract extending through the 1985 season prior to the game, lined his triple to right off starter Dan Petry, 17-9, scoring Reid Nichols from third base. 
SMC tennis tops Depauw 
The Saint Mary's tennis team raised its season record to 2-0 yes­terday, topping Depauw by a 6-3 score at the Angela tenni~ courts. Depauw is now 1-1. 
No. I singles player Debbie Lauerie beat Sandy Gyorgyi of Depauw by scores of 4-6, 6-0, 6-2 to lead the Saint Mary's attack. 
Other winners in singles for Saint Mary's were Caroline Zero at No. 3, Kristian Beck at No. 4, and Allison Pellar at No. 6. 
Victories by the Saint Mary's doubles teams of Zern-Heather Temoseew and Pellar-Mary Ann Heckman also aided the Belles' cause. 
Saint Mary's travels to Butler today, hoping to lift its record to 3-0. 

• Southwestet"n Mic.higan.~ · 
Lar!J8Sf Anttqu. Showroom 

• Anttques, Collectabl~s. & Country Cratts 
• Back Porch Cafe . Mon. Sat. 10 00-6 OC
HOURS
· Sun. 12:00-5:00 

9-16 T.G.I.F Bud Happy Hour BIG 16 oz. Bud cans $1.25 First 50: Free Bud Caps 2 for 1 Bar Drinks & Free Munchies 
9-17 Pre-Game Party Open 11 am Double Screwdrivers & Bloody Marys: $1.00 
HATE STATE GO IRISH 

GOOD LUCK AGAINST MICHIGAN STATE FROM 

~ 

And tor valuable Savings before or after the game. here·s a winning move. 
BRING IN THIS AD FOR: 
$3°0 OFF 
A LARGE PIZZA 


$1°0 OFF 
A SMALL 
HAPPY HOURS FRI. & SAT. 9 PM-MID. 50' AMUG/12.00 APITCHER 


Our Specialty using fresh sliced apples topped with a sugar cinnamon glaze never surpassed! 




$1.00 066 
OFFER GOOD THRU 9/83 
With This Ad, Limit 1 Per Person 
Go IRISH Beat Spartans 
OPEN 7 Days a Week at 6:00 A.M. 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North in'"Rosetand 
(Across From Hohdav tr.n) 





Today____________________
s.at_u_r_d_ay_._s_e_p-te_m_b_er_1_7._1_9_8_3__p_ag_e_1_3 
Bloom County 

~------------~ 
ANrJ! 
I 



Fate 

BlAT IT STILL AINT GONNA BE EIUY DowN THfiU. SO W£'R£ALL. r.DNNA BUS DOwN T'D • 
N.D. ON FI?IDIIY. ~._.....,. 
\ 


The Boneheads 

I. VON'\ l::~W.~ ~~ WH't'PID 1-l£? 


The Daily Crossword 

N.D. vs. Miami!! 
N.D. Club of Ft. Lauderdale is sponsoring: $39 doubles at Sheraton Yankee Trader Hotel on the beach 
In Ft. Lauderdale. $10 bus from Ft. Lauderdale to game & back early Sun. morning A pep rally Friday, tailgater Sat & Mass at hotel Sunday 
Notre Dame 
Call Greg Moore (305) 566-4732 for reservations or Student Union 239-7757 for details. 

Be There Sb.ldent: Union 

b1iS15lSUtl 
Berke Breathed 


r;{ 6€0RC£I I DIDN'T F€a A'THING. = 
0 



Photius 
Saturday, Sept. 17 

•9 
a.m. -Baseball, Notre Dame Alumni Game, jake Kline Field 

•10:30 
a.m. -Volleyball, ND Women vs. South· western Michigan, ACC 

•1 
:30 p.m. -Football, Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, Stadium 


Sunday, Sept. IS 

•10:30 
a.m. -Mass, Officially opening the 14Ist school year, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Sacred Heart Church B41 p.m. -Baseball, ND Men vs. Bradley Univer­sity, jake Kline Field . 

•I 
p.m.-OpeningExhibition,ofReligiousNar­rative in the 16th Century Rome, Annenberg Auditorium 

•2 
p.m. -Reception, for new faculty members, Center for Continuing Education 




Far Side 
THE WAV I SEE 1r, 
THAT'S TH£ ONL'I WA'I 
INE'R£ G,ONNA BERT NOTtE DIIME'S /ILUHNI 
1"0 THt: BOOKSTORE. 
\ 
WANTI: 0 10 LIVE. 
~ ~O:XI:S. 
"Blast it, Henry! ... I think the dog is followin9 
us.'' 


o Chronicle Fe81urea, 1983 

ACROSS 1 Spaceage spin-off 
5 Winge~ 10 Brim 14 Mountain 
range in 

USSR 15 Mansion 16 Evening: Fr. 17 Armstrong 
and Aldrin 20 Wapiti 21 Cars 22 Passageway 23 Hostelries 24 Purpose 25 They probe 
the uni· 
verse 33 Dragged 34 Amor 35 Gershwin 36 Riverof 

Germany 37 Big cat 39 Chartof 
a piece of land 40 Continent: 
abbr. 41 Muslim 
judge 42 Penned 43 Out-of· 
this-world 
shots 47 Perfect 48 Fibbed 49 Polaris and 
Vega 52 Yawning 54 Astronaut, 
at times 
Friday's Solution 
57 Space 
station 60 Wordwith shoppe 
61 Weasel's 
kin 62 Level 63 Equipment 64 Students 65 Mariner 
mission destina· tion 
DOWN 1 Sand 
formation 2 USSR sea 3 Stint 4 In the man· 
nerof 5 Quantity 6 Chinese 
philosopher 7-Domini 8 Drags 9 Epoch 
10 Arctic native 11 Accom· 
plishes 12 Maiden 13 Irish 
Gaelic 18 Hairy, sort of 19 Secular 
people 23 Bakery worker 

24 Hebrew stringed instrument 
25 Pumps'or Oxfords 26 City of 
Italy 27 Vigilant 28 Lawful 29 Before 30 Steer 31 Museof 
lyric 

poetry 32 Cloys 37 Chat 38-Amin 39 Poke 41 Near 42 Primitive 
invention 44 Achiever 45 Joyful 46 Musicians, 
sort of 49 Weather 
condition 50 Story 51 Forever 
-day 52 In re 53 Paid 

admissions 54 Hurrah! 55 Roman road 56 Piggeries 58 Friend of 
Snow White 59 Vehicle for 17A 
~........................................ 
: ~  Meet Notre Dame I St. Mary's Alumni at SeniorBar· SE .  t ~  
~ + :  friday and Saturday Saturday will be a great victory party  ,  ~~ Bl0DRll  ~  
•: t  Don't miss it!! Hours:Friday 9:00-2:00  .1. Saturday 10:00-game; after game-2:00  


t : ;. ) i, 
l~··: ·~--~----------~----~.~--~........................~~--~.............................................................................................. 
·; (·· !. 
J' 
':··; ·..~ 

Saturday, September 17, 1983 -page 14 
New faces fare surprisinglywell 
By MIKE SULLIVAN through when needed, collecting Sports Editor six tackles and making a tremendous diving interception that led to a 
When the 1983 Notre Dame foot· touchdown. ball team took the field last Saturday. "It was real important for the two there were many familiar faces mis­of them to be successful," said Kelly sing. Hunter, Zavagnin, Clasby, of his young linebackers. "Both of Duerson, Griffith, and Larkin were them have the ability, so it was no­just some of the players who were thing I did with them." not in the starting lineup against the Kelly does deserve much credit, usually-tough Boilermakers. despite what he says. Defensive 
In their stead were names like coordinatorJimJohnson also played Kovaleski, Furjanic, Bavaro, Ballage, a major role in their rapid growth, Dingens, Golic, and Scannell. And but perhaps the most important con­there was not any question about tribution was by the rest of the whose inexperience Purdue was squad who were encouraging the going to try to exploit. new linebackers. 
In the wake of a 52-6 slaughter, "The kids were a great help," said though, Purdue must be thinking Kelly. "They encouraged the guys that Larkin. Duerson, and company real hard and were always patting were back ir.. Notre Dame uniforms. them on the back." 
Freshman Mike Kovaleski, replac· While most of the attention cen­ing the injured Mike Larkin, the tered around the play of Kovaleski player who was expected to lead the and Furjanic, however, there were a 
act, tallied one of tbe Irish goals, with Ken 
team in tackles this year, was the number of other players who were 
Harkenrider and Mark Bidinger each getting one 
most impressive. starting for the first time. 
apiece also. For more details see Monday's Ob­
Not only did Kovaleski make upS(:rvcr. 
for Larkin's absence by making a 
Sox number to one 
Naylor also had 10), but he also 
tipped two passes, which resulted in 
one interception and another near­
Bucs, Phils retnain tied 
interception. 

~Observer/Paul Citarelli
Irish beat Loyola 
Tbe Notre Dame soccer team ratsed its season record to 5-l last night with a 3-0 victory over Loyola on Cartier Field. Sophomore Cbrls Telll, picturwl above doing his Harlem Globetrotter 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Rookie apiece from Greg Walker and Jose DeLeon scattered nine hits and Carlton Fisk -in the eighth to salt rookie Marvell Wynne belted a away a victory that assured them at grand slam as the Pittsburgh Pirates least a tie for the division title. One defeated the Montreal Expos 9·0 last more victory or one Kansas City loss night, ending Charlie Lea's personal will give Chicago its first division eight-game winning streak. crown since winning the American 
DeLeon, 7-2. walked five and League pennant in 1959. struck out eight en route to his Bannister, 15-l0, posted his 12th second shutout of the season. It was victory in 13 decisions since the All­the right-hander's third complete Star break, striking out a career-high 
game of the season. Lea, 15·9, gave 12 and walking only two. up seven hits in six innings and is Baines' homer was his I 7th and now 0-6 lifetime against Pittsburgh. came with one out in the seventh in· 
Wynne's eighth-inning grand ning offloser Bryan Clark, 7-8. It was 
slam, his first in the majors and his also Baines' 18th game-winning run­seventh home run of the sea'lOn, batted-in. came off relieverJeff Reardon. 

Twins ll,Jays4
Phlls 3, Cards 2 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Rookie PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Mike 
Tim Teufel's five hits, including his Schmidt scored from third base on a 
first two major league home runs, wild pitch with two outs in the 13th 
led the Minnesota Twins to an 11-4 inning as the Philadelphia Phillies 
victory over the Toronto Blue Jays beat the St. Louis Cardinals 3-2 and 
last night. remained in a first-place tie in the 
Teufel, who is now 16-for-35 for a National League Ea~t with the Pitts­
.457 average since being recalled burgh Pirates. 
Sept. 1, also had two singles, a triple, Schmidt drew a walk off loser 
scored five runs, drove in three and Steve Baker, 0-1, to open the 13th 
extended his hitting streak to eightand took second on pinch hitter 
games.Kiko Garcia's sacrifice bunt. One out 
The Twins built a 5-0 lead after later. Schmidt went to third when 
two innings. Teufel's home run and Baker threw a wild pitch with Bo 
Dave Eugle's RBI single gave the Diaz at the plate. Baker then un­
Twins a 2-0 first-inning lead. corked another wild pitch, and 
Gary Gaetti led off the second Schmidt raced home with the game­
with a walk and scored on an RBI winning run. 
double by Tom Brunansky. With one Willie Hernandez, 7-4, was the 
out, Teufel scored Brunansky with winner with three innings of score­
an RBI single off losing pitcher Jim less relief a~ the Cardinals managed 
Gott, 9-14. Mickey Hatcher singledonly three hits off three different 
to right, giving him an 11-game hit­Philadelphia pitchers. 
ting streak, and Gary Ward followed Pitt-;hurgh routed Montreal 9·0 to 
with an infield out scoring Teufel. stay deadlocked with the Phillies. 
Rick Lysander, who relieved The Cardinals had threatened in 
Twins starter Pete Filson with one thl· top of the 15th. Porter singled 
out in the fifth, went the rest of the and eventually advanced to third. 
way to boost his record to 5-12. But Hernandez worked out of the jam by striking out Floyd Rayford and pinch hitter Bill Lyons. 

Royals 6, A's 5 
Sox 7, Seattle 0 KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP)-Butch 
Davis' eighth-inning sacrifice fly CHICAGO (AP)-Floyd Bannis­scored Hal McRae to lead Kansas 
ter fired a two-hitter, and Harold City past the Oakland A's 6-5 last Baines broke a scoreless tie with a night, for the Royals' fourth straight solo homer in the seventh last night victory. to lead the Chicago White Sox to a The victory kept Kansas City 16 
7-0 victory over Seattle, reducing games back offirst-place Chicago in their magic number to one for the the American League West and kept American League West title. the Royals, at least for one more day. The White Sox exploded for six in the race for the division title. One more run!' -getting two RBI's more Chicago victory or another 
"I made some mistakes," said 
Kansas City loss clinches the divi­
Kovaleski after his first college
sion for the White Sox. 

game, "and I have a lot to work on,
McRae opened the inning with a 
but I'm pretty well plea~ed."
triple off reliever Keith Atherton, 2­
He was not the only one pleased
3. Willie Aikens and Frank White 
with his performance. Coach 
drew intentional walks to load the 
George Kelly, who coaches 
bases, setting the stage for Davis' 
Kovaleski, was understandably hap·
game-winning fly ball. 

py. Losing a player like Larkin can 
The victory went to left-hander 
cause one to lose some sleep.
Larry Gura, 11-1 7, who pitched two Tony Furjanic
"I told Mike he became 21 in a 
innings in relid ofGaylord Perry. 

hurry," said Kelly. "He's got lots of 
Sophomore defensive back Pat
Dan Quisenberry worked the 
physical talent, but it's important for 
Ballage wa~ one of them. Most
ninth to increase his major-league 
him to mature extremely rapidly." 
people remember Ballage as the kick
record save total to 40. 

"He's a pretty cool kid," said Ger­
returner who accidently downed a 
ry Faust. "He's a competitor. He had 
kickoff on the one against Penn 
to come through for us and he did." 
State, but it will not be long before
Reds 8, Astros3 Kovaleski was not the only player 
that incident is forgotten.
that had to come through for the 
Ballage had been warned all week
CINCINNATI (AP) Nick Irish, however. Sophomore Middle 
long that he was going to be a target
Esasky, Eddie Milner, and Gary Linebacker Tony Furjanic has some 
of Scott Campbell's passing -and
Redus slammed fourth-inning home big shoes to fill also. His joh is to pick 
he was ready.
runs to power the Cincinnati Red~ to up where Bob Crable and Mark 
"I was anticipating that they'd be 
an 8-3 victory over the Houston Zavagnin left off. No easy task 
coming at me," said Ballage, "but I
Astros last night. considering that Crable and Zavag· 
wasn't scared. Players like Kovaleski 
The homers keyed a five-run rally nin led the team in tackles over the 
and myself are anxious to do real 
la~t four years. 
well."
see BASEBALL, page 12 

But, like Kovaleski, he came 
What's happening? 
Sports this weekend 
TODAY 

NO tennis  NO volleyball  
vs. DePauw  vs. Southwestern Michigan  
9a.m.  10:30 a.m.  
Courtney Courts  ACC Auxiliary Gym  
baseball  
Alumni Game  
9a.m.  football  
Jake Kline Field  \£S. Michigan State  
rugby vs. Miami (Ohio)  1:30 p.m. Stadium  
10a.m.  
behind Stepan  TOMORROW  
lacrosse  ""·baseball  
Alumni Game  vs. Bradley  
10a.m.  1 p.m.  
Cartier Field  Jake Kline Field  

There was not as much action his 
way as wa~ expected, but he wa~ 
able to come up with an intercep· 
tion off a tip by Kovaleski. 
"We're coming together real well," Ballage said. "We're starting to know what everyone is doing on defense." 
What two more new starters, Mike Golic and Greg Dingens, did on defense made life difficult for Campbell and his replacement, Jim Everett. 
Dingcns, making his first start at contain tackle, and Golic, holding down the end spot after filling in for Kevin Griffith last year, teamed up for two turnovers. Dingens sack•:d Campbell early in the game, forcing a fumble that Golic recovered. Later in the game, Golic tipped a pass that Dingens intercepted. 
The two linemen also played a major role in a good pao;s rush that forced Campbell to hurry his passes early in the game and made it a very forgettable day for the unfairly· maligned quarterback. 
There may not have been as many new faces on offense a~ there were on defense, but two of the newest played a big part in the offense. 
Tim Scannell, a sophomore wh to is taking over at left guard for Mike Kelley who ha<; moved to center, let his presence be felt early as he and Mike Shiner took out the Purdue line on the first offensive series of the 
see FACES, page 10 



~------------------------------------------------------------------­
MSU Saturday, September 17, 1983-page 15 
Rick Naylor 
Linebacker's quiet play gets no respect, just results 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
When defensive positions are considered, probably one of the toughest to master is that ofoutside linebacker. "To play the position, the player has got to be the most poised, disciplined player we've got on our defense," says Notre Dame's second-year outside linebacker coach Greg Blache. "He's respon· sible for so many things -both the run game and the p:,t.Ss game. He 
must be one ofthe most flexible ath· 
letes on the team.". 
This year's Notre Dame squad is fortunate to have this crucial spot filled by veteran Rick Naylor. Naylor, the 6-3, 227-pound senior from Cincinnati, Ohio, is starting his second season at the outside linebacker slot. 
Naylor made eight starts there during his junior campaign before suffering a hip pointer against Penn State which forced him to miss the Air Force and USC contests. 
He made nine tackles in last year's 
season opener against Michigan and 
added eight against Oregon before 
concluding the 1982 season with 45. 
Naylor made starts against 
Purdue, Michigan State, Florida State 
and Air Force in 1981 as well as 
seeing action i'l all 12 games in 
1980, his freshman year. 
So far this season, Naylor is offto a 
good start, contributing 1 0 tackles 
in last Saturday's 1983 opener 
against Purdue, tying him with fresh­
man Mike Kovaleski for high on the 
team. 
The loss of Mike Larkin for the 
entire season, combined with the 
fact that many young players are 
now seeing starting assignments for 
the first time, should certainly add to 
the supportive role of the veteran 
Naylor. 
With the dawning of this new 
season, Naylor put most personal 
goals aside, instead centering his ef­
forts on what he hoped for the team. 
"Going into this season, I'd like the 
team to do well," he says. "Since the 
trip to the Sugar Bowl my freshman 
year, we've had two rough seasons. 
It's my senior year, so I hope that this 
year we can really turn things 
around and bring respect back to the 
team." 
Although he expressed the desire 
for the team to do well, Naylor has 
also been working hard to improve 
his own play as well. 
"Over the summer I worked a lot 
with weights," says the senior 
marketing major. "Although I didn't 
put on a lot of weight, I feel my 
strength did increase. I've also done 
more running to get my body in bet· 
ter shape." 
Naylor also feels that he has im­
proved on his understanding of the 
game, and his coach agrees. "Rick 
has improved on his general aware­
ness of the opponent," says Blache. 
"He's become 1nore of a student of 
the game as far as knowing who he's 
going up against and what they're 
likely to do." 
Along with his improved skills, 
Naylor also has certain other at­
tributes that he feels are key at his 
position. 
"I'm tall and have long arms," he 
says, "and this is really important 
when it comes to playing off blocks, 
especially from opposing tight 
ends." 
"His experience is very impor· tant," adds Blache. "He's been there before and he's just got an awareness that helps him on the football field." 
Naylor's abilities are looked upon highly by his coach, but Blache notes one thing that could make him even better. 
"The only criticism I can find in Rick is that at times he's lacked con­sistency," says Blache, "and that's only because he's not that physical, nasty, looking-to-hit-somebody­every-play player. He's more of a finesse player. Ifhe were a little nas­tier, he'd make a phenomenal foot· ball player. He has a lot of inate abilities that you just can't teach." 
Head coach Gerry Faust, for whom Naylor played at Cincinnati Moeller, also recognizes Naylor's abilities as well as a new prepared­ness. 
"He's really come to play this 
year," says Faust. "I think he had a 
conflict within himself that he 
wasn't intense enough all the time, 
but he's made up his mind that he's 
going to be intense all the time. He's 
worked very hard and is really a 
silent leader on the field." 
When reflecting on his leadership 
abilities, Naylor tends to agree with 
his coach. 

"I am pretty quiet," he admits. "I try to lead by example, but ifl do see something as the game goes on, I'll say what I have to say." 
"He's not the kind that's going to 
go out and make a lot ofnoise," con­
tinues Faust. "He's very quiet and 
very steady. If he can keep up the 
steadiness and consistency he's 
shown this fall, he'll be a great leader 
as far as influence and getting the job 
done." 

Getting the job done is very im­
portant to the success of a team. 
Over the years, however, Naylor's 
successes have often been over­
shadowed by the likes ofBob Crable, 
Mark Zavagnin, or Mike Larkin. 
Naylor doesn't see it as overshadow­
ing, though. 

"Bob(Crable), Z(Zavagnin), and 
Larkin deserved everything they 
got," he says. "It really doesn't 
bother me, as long as I think the 
coaches respect what I do on the 
field." 

"Rick's got a thankless job," says 
Blache. "He's at a position where 
he's got to be disciplined. He can't 
just fly to the football, because if he 
does, we'll be giving up big plays. 
We all like to be recognized when 
we do something good, and I'm sure 
Rick's no exception." 

"I liken him to Rodney Danger­
field," continues Blache, "because 
he gets no respect for the job he 
does. He's solid, he'S sound, and he's 
not flashy. He just gets the job 
done." 

When Naylor completes this final 
season at Notre Dame, he'll be 
looking to get the job done else· 
where. 

What does the future hold for Rick 
Naylor? 

"I'd like to play pro football,"he 
says. "Ifnot drafted, I'd like to go free 
agent and hopefully be given a 
chance to make it." 

For the time being, however, the 
1983 schedule must still be com­
pleted, and Naylor's presence will 
certainly be appreciated. 
"I think it's our advantage that we 
haVf'! .. Rick Naylor," says Blache. 
"He's going to be a tough guy to 
replace when he's gone. He adds a 
dimension to our defense. He adds a 
stability that I think we really need." 
... Bell 
continuedfrom page 1 
"When I ran (on the play), it was funny," laughs Bell, "because af­ter a while I didn't know where I was going. Then I saw the line and I figured I had to get there." 
This week however, there will be a much tougher defense trying to prevent Bell from scoring. The Michigan State Spartans are coached by a man in George Perles who prides himselfon defense. 
And the pride ofhis defense is 6-6, 235-lb. senior linebacker, Carl Banks. Bell has already been introduced to Banks, both on and offthe field. 
"This summer I worked at theJack Lambert Football Camp," says Bell in explaining how he got to know Banks off the field. "Carl was one ofthe guys there. We spent a lot oftime together and we had a lot offun working with the kids at the camp. Carl is a great human being and a nice guy." 
However, once Carl Banks buttons his chin strap, it is no more Mr. Nice Guy. His ferocity on the football field has earned him first-team All-BigTen honors as a sophomore and as a junior. His coaches think he is the most dominant defensive player at MSU since George Webster wore the green and white 14 seasons ago. 
Bell has played across the line ofscrimmagefrom Banks onlyonce, but what an afternoon he had. On that day two seasons ago, Bell had runs ofI1, II, 22, 26, and 32 yards, scored two touchdowns, and had a 75-yard touchdown run called back because ofa penalty. For the day, he carried 20 times for I65 yards. 
"We tried while we were at the camp not to talk about the Notre Dame-Michigan State rivalry," says Bell. "We just more or less tried to avoid it as much as possible." 
Today, Bell will be trying to avoid Banks, for he knows just 
how well the Flint, Mich. native plays football. 
"He's a hard hitter and great football player," comments Bell. "He's playing the outside linebacker position, which is a good spot for him, because, in the middle, there's less area to cover. On the outside, he gets into a lot ofplays and makes some great tackles." 
This afterncon, Bell and Banks will be reaquainted. At least 
one ofthem, Bell, is looking forward to the confrontation. 
"When it was'time to part." remembers Greg, "all I could say to 
him was, 'Hey, see you in September."' 
September ts here and so are the Spartans. Both Bell and Banks are ready. The subject they so carefully avoided talking about must now be dealt with. Today each man will let his play do the talking. Don't expect either to be at a loss for words. 


MSU 

Saturday, September 17,1983-page 16 
NOTRE DAME VS. MICHIGAN STATE 
THE GAME 
THE STATISTICS
The 

TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TO
Megaphone 


GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Michigan St. Spanans Yards per Play 6.87 5.29 SITE.: 
Notre Dame Stadium (59,075) Yards per Ga'lle 522.0 418.0 PENALTIES·YARDS 9-73 8·68
TIME: 1:30p.m.EST;Saturday,Sept.l7,1983 
FUMBLES-LOST 0-0 5-3
TV-RADIO: WNDU-TV (Ch. 16) 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 21 21 Jeff Jeffers and Jack Nolan 
By Rush1ng 13 5 By Pass1ng 7 14 
Metrosports Replay Network 

By PenaHy 1 2 Harry Kalas and George Connor THIRD DOWNS-CONV 5-15 7·19 12 a.m. Sunday WNOll-TV ( Ch. 16) Percentage .333 .368 POSSESSION TIME 30•40 2920 1\lhnutes per Ga'lle 3040 2920
Notre-Dame-Mutual Radio Network 
Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
WNDU-AM 1500 

SERIES: Notre Dame 31, MSU 16, Ties I LAST MEETING: Oct. 2, 1982 at East Lansing 
SCORING GTD PA R-PA S FG TP 
Notre Dame II, MSU 3 

Bell 4 0·0 0-0 0 0·0 24 Johnston 1 0 7-7 0·0 0 1·2 10 RANKINGS: (AP) Notre Dame 4th, MSU unranked Pinkett 1 1 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 6 
TICKETS: Game is sold out 
Bavaro 1 0·0 0-0 0 0·0 6 Abraha'Tl 1 0·0 0·0 0 0·0 6 
NO 1 7 7·7 0·0 0 1·2 52 OPP 1 1 0·1 0-0 0 0·0 6
THE SCHEDULE 
MICHIGAN STATENOTRE DAME 

RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG 
SEPT. I0 def. Purdue 52-6 SEPT. I 0 def. Colorado 23-17 SEPT. I""' MICHIGAN STATE SEPT. 17 at Notre Dame P1nkett 15 115 7.7 1 35 SEPT. 24 at Miami (Fla.) SEPT. 24ILLINOIS Beginning in 1949, the win­Franc1sco 9 81 9.0 0 33 Bell 11 45 4.1 3 12
OCT. I at Colorado OCT. I at Purdue ner of the Notre Dame­
Groo'Tls 2 33 16.5 0 25 
OCT. 8 at South Carolina OCT. 8 MICHIGAN Michigan State game each 
C. S'Tlrth 6 33 5.5 0 18 OCT. I '5 Army at Meadowlands OCT. 15 at Indiana fall receives the Megaphone Brooks 1 5 17 3.4 0 7 OCT. 22 SOUTHERN CAl. OCT. 22 at Ohio State Abraha'Tl 1 4 14 3.5 1 10
Trophy. The trophy is spon­

Carter 1 2 9 4.5 0 9
OCT. 29 NAVY OCT. 29MINNESOTA 
sored jointly by the Michigan 
1 2 0 0.0 0 1 

NOV. '5 PITTSBl~RGH NOV. 5at Northwestern 
State and Notre Dame Alum­Beuerle1n 1• 1 ·8 ·8.0 0 ·8 
ni Clubs of Detroit. 

NOV. 19 AIR fORCE NOV. 19at WISCONSIN NOTRE DAME 57 339 5.9 5 35 OPPONENTS 40 146 3.7 0 16 TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 522 418 K1el 14 9 .643 0 166 2 Total Plays 76 79 Beuerle1n 3 1 .333 0 17 0 
GrOO'llS  2  0  .000  0  0  0  
NO  19  10  .526  0  183 2  
OPP  39  19  .487  4  272 1  
RECEIVING  G  NO YDS AVG TO LG  
Jackson  2  67 33.5  0  61  
Favonte  2  35  17.5  0  18  
Howard  2  32  16.0  0  24  
P1nkett  2  23  11.5  0  14  
Bavaro  1  17  17.0  17  
Bell  9  9.0  9  
NOTRE DAME  10  183 18.3  2  61  
OPPONENTS  19  272 14.3  1  42  
DEFENSE  TMTL-YDS PBU FA BK  
Kovaleski  10  0·0  2  0  0  
Naylor  10  0-0  0  0  0  
Brown  8  1·1  0  0  0  
Johnson  7  0·0  0  0  0  
Marshall  7  0·0  1  1  0  
Fuqan1c  6  0·0  0  0  0  
Toran  6  0-0  0  0  0  
Dmgens  5  0·0  1  0  0  
Gann  4  0·0  0  0  0  
Autry  4  1·2  0  0  0  
McCabe  4  0·0  0  0  0  
Mosley  4  1·1  0  0  0  
Murphy  4  0·0  0  0  0  
Kle1ne  4  0-0  0  0  0  
Butler  4  0-0  0  0  0  
Corsaro  3  0-0  0  0  0  
Gol1c  2  1·4  1  1  0  
DIBernardo  2  0·0  0  0  0  
Sp1ei'Tlaker  2  0-0  0  0  0  
Lawrence  2  0·0  1  1  0  
Ballage  2  0-0  0  0  0  
Dorsey  1  0·0  0  0  0  
Banks  1  0·0  0  0  0  
W1lson  1  0-0  0  0  0  
NOTRE DAME  103  4·8  6  3  0  
OPPONENTS  103  3·5  2  0  0  


PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked at the discretion of the sports editor, and some well­
~ 

known figure in the Notre Dame 
.. community predict the out­
.1:. come of the week's major col­lege football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the 
Louie Somogyi Jane Healey David Dziedzic Will Hare Mike Sullivan Steve Labate Mary DIStanlslao Marylou Yepsen
spread. In other words, it is not 
Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor Editor-In-Chief Sports Writer Sports Editor Sports Writer Guest Celebrity Random Student
enough to pick the winner of a 
11 . 2 8-5 7·8 1·6 7·6 5-8 8·5 6·7
given game. The person must pick a winner and give the underdog points. 
Georgia over ClEMSON by I.«; Bulldogs Bulldogs Tigers Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Tigers 
Iowa over PENN STATE by 2. «; Lions lions lions lions lions Hawkeyes lions Lions OKLAHOMA over Ohio State by 6 Buckeyes Sooners Sooners Buckeyes Buckeyes Sooners Sooners Sooners WASHINGTON over "fichigan by.~.«; Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Huskies Huskies Wolverines AliJI!IRN over Texas by I longhorns Eagles Longhorns Eagles longhorns Eagles Eagles Longhorns II.I.INOIS over Stanford by 6 Cardinal Cardinal lllini Cardinal lllini lllini Cardinal lllini MIA."fl ovt·r Purdue by I I.'> Hurricanes Hurricanes Boilers Boilers Hurricanes llurricant·s Boilers Hurricanes MAilYI.AND over West VirJ.:inia hy ~ Mountaineers Terps Mountaineers Terps Mountaineers Mountaineers "fountaineers Terps "fissouri over WISCONSIN by I Tigers Tigers Badgers Tigers Badgers Tigers Badgers Tigers l'CI.A over Arizona State hy 'I Devils Devils Bruins Devils Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins SYRACUSE over Northwt·stern hy 6 Orangemen Orangemen Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Orangemen ~"ildcats Orangemen I>l IKE over South Carolina by -l Devils Gamecocks Devils Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Devils Devils 
NOTRE DAME over Michigan State by 16 Irish Irish Irish Spanans Irish Irish Irish Irish 







