
Snow fight -page 2 

the independent ~tudent ncw~papcr ~lT\·ing notre dame and ~aint man ~ WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1983 

Students to choose new phone services 
By MARK POTTER universities. said Don Delaney. ln­News Staff fonet is also in use at the University ofTennessee. Eastnn Michigan llni-
New telephones and a new long versity. and George Washington distance calling system will be the University in Washington DC. University's Christmas present to Delaney.a representative from In-the students this year. fonet, was on campus this week to 
Along with this present comes the help with the early registration for task of choosing among lnfonet, Infonet. being conducted in the Saverline or MCI as a student's long lower level of LaFortune. distance calling company. Students will also he able to sign 
Over Christm;L<; break the old up for Infonet at registration in rotary dial telephones now in stu-January. But Delaney said h~: is dent's rooms will be replaced with worried that there will be long lines touch tone phones. at registration because of the stu-
Along with this change. Indiana dents' new dependence on long dis­Bell is discontinuing student billing tance telephone companies for cards. If a student wants to make making non-collect long distance long distance calls without calling calls. collect they will have to subscribe to When a student signs up for In­a long distance calling company, fonet he will receive a six digit pn­

A determined Tom Sullivan braces himself to such as lnfonet, MCI, or Saverline. sonal security code. With this code a tackle Paul Perona, who appears to have caught According to Ed Humms, the llni-student will be able to make long the football. In the background, Bryan Fenton ex-versity's assisant to the comptroller, distance calls from any student the decision to replace the phones phone on campus hy dialing th~: was made about two years ago, number they want and then their before the recent breakup of AT&T. personal code. However Infonet can
Mock Convention imitates real one, 
He said that this early is phasing start only be used from student phones saved nearly a year in getting the on campus. The personal code al­phones installed because many uni-lows for billing and keeps people

has invited contenders to speak 
versities currently are converting who are not subscribers offthe lines. their phone systems. Bills from Infonet can be sent either
By MARY HEILMANN resentativ t e to speak," said Chairman Interested students should attend 
One of the reasons behind the to the student or to the student's 
News Staff Thomas O'Leary. At the 1980 con­an organizational meeting Thursday decision is the phasing out of the home.
vention, t George Bush's son andJohn night at 6:30 in LaFortune Little rotary system by the phone com-"Infonet can save students up toInvitations to speak at this year's Anderson's daughter addressed the Theater. Students will be able to sign pany. Humms described the rotary 3S percent on their long distance
Mock Convention have been ex­audience in their fathers' behalf up to work for convention commit­system as having been an calls over direct dial rates," saidtended to Democratic presidential The Mock Convention, a tradition tees or individual compaigns. 
"endangered species for years." Delaney. He added that the averagecontenders John Glenn, Walter at Notre Dame since I940, simulates Participation in the convention is The University considered bids savings is around 10 percent. There
Mondale, Gary Hart, Alan Cranston, the national convention ofthe party open to all Notre Dame and Saint for the new system from eight dif-is no monthly fee for lnfonet, the stu­Jesse Jackson, Reubin Askew, and out ofpower. Mary's students. Each will receive an ferent companies. AT&T will install dent will pay only for the c;o_!ls heGeorge McGovern. application which should be the hardware, such as the new makes. Infonet is on the same time­"Even if their schedules do not This year's convention will be returned after Christmas. The first switching system that is being in-rate schedule as Indiana Bell, as ispermit an appearance at the conven­April 4-7 in Stepan Center, and stalled in the basement of the MCI and Saverline. This means thetion, candidates usually send a rep-preparations are already under way. see MOCK, page 3 
library. rates decrease significantly after II 
Security officers will accompany p.m. the telephone installers as they go Infonet is committed to the stu­into the rooms to install the new dents, according to Delaney. He


Ham Club tries to contact shuttle 
phones. All of the new phones will mentioned that he would like to be AT&T. look into the possibility ofa scholar­lnfonet will be managing the long ship for Notre Dame students.
ByJOHN-JOHN AMORES that shuttle communication was es­quainted with radio equipment," distance calling for what is being Students will be able choose

News Staff tablished. Weihs said, "and it can also help new called The Notre Dame Student among lnfonet, Saverline. or MCI for 
The club's antenna is con­people study to recieve their radio Telephone Network. Infonet has a their long distance phone service.
The next time you get frustrated nected to a tranceiver specially licenses." The club will also be contract with the Universtiy to

trying to call long distance after I I designed for outer-space transmis­Saverline is vying for the student provide this long distance service to users as well. Saverline is the largest
p.m., think about the Notre Dame sions located in the "Ham Shack," teaching at Free University for the students. Infonet specializes in

Ham Radio Club, which is continu­next to Holy Cross Hall. The Ham anyone who is interested in the managing long distance calling for see PHONES, page 3
ing to try to contact the space Shack also houses the club's main radio club and an FCC license. shuttle Columbia this week. transceiver, which is capable of 
The radio club is using a home­transmitting across five different AM made antenna built of two six-foot radio bands. The radio operators wood<.·n boards, two thick copper have spoken to people on all seven 


Senate studies examination policy 
wires, and a window screen at the continents, including a research base to attempt to contact the party at the geographic South Pole. shuttle, which is flying in an orbit The club has also been monitor­By BARBARA HARDIN eruptions, and the la<>t amendment said that he "wouldn't mind periodic
135 miles above the Earth. Club ing all conversations between the 

News Staff would require that exams comprise inspections" and felt other foodmember Pete Applebaum found in­shuttle and ground control, and they at least one-third and no more than sales managers would agree with
structions for the antenna in a radio have been keeping abreast ofvarious "Final exams are the single, best two-thirds ofa student's final grade. this ifthey could stay in business.
magazine. developments throughout the mis­way to evaluate what work you've Hayes said the earliest such a Peggy Prevoznik, student hody

Earlier in the 9-day mission, sion. done here," said Academic Commis­policy would be enforced is the vice president, introduced the idea
Columbia crew member Owen Gar­There are nine licensed amateur sioner Mike Hayes after listing three beginning of next school year. of holding seminars that would ed­

riott, the first ham radio operator in ham radio operators in the club, amendments for a new final exam Callaghan said h~: would appoint a ucate students in safe, profitable
history to transmit from space, had which is headed by Derek Weihs. difficulty establishing com­policy at this week's Student Senate student senate committee to con­food selling methods. Other senate
radio The members range from the novice 

meeting. sider the amendments further. Some members agreed that many people
munication with any of the licensee all the way up to the extra The amendments. which have senators, however. voiced disap­who work in dorm food sales do so

thousands of ham radio operators class licensee, which involves a trying to contact him. Poor position­great deal of knowledge about the 

been proposed hy Father James provallast night. without sufficient knowledge of Burtchaell's committee, In business: Student
ing of the shuttle's antenna and the operation of radio as well as a high are being other The food preparation. studied by faculty, staff and students. Senate addressed the issue of dorm
busy experiment schedule were degree ofproficiency in morse code The first amendment would make food sales. After health inspections Student Body President Brian Cal­blamed for the difficulties. communication. All ham radio the official time and place for exams conducted last month, it wa<> laghan addressed the senators aboutGarriott is scanning 10 Earth-to­operators in the United States must permanent. Hayes said University determined that there is a high risk the Alcohol Awareness Committee,

space frequencies at specific times be licensed by the FCC during the mission and is recording Garriott said the fact that NASA 

President Father Theodore Hes­factor in many of the dorm's and said the alcohol issue is now in all of the call numbers that he hears. allowed him to operate a ham radio 
hurgh does not approve of the vast facilities. the discussion pha-;e with the intent Garriott writes down each call num­in space "is a real breakthrough," 
amounts of students who leave for Duane Webster. manager of Stan­of "solving as many problems about 
ber and repeats it over the one main and it has allowed the U.S. space home early every semester because ford food sales, disagreed with alcohol that exist without creating of finals changed by students or terminating or limiting food sales in new ones."
frequency that the shuttle is program to develop a more intimate 

teachers. dorms. He suggested that all halls be
transmitting on. Eventually, a card relationship with everyday people. The amendment given "grace period take
with the call numbers will be mailed "The Notre Dame Ham Radio second would a to up SEE SENATE, page 3 permit absolutely no student ex-measures to improve sales." He also
back to the radio station. verifying Club allows pevpl~ to become ac­


The Observer Wednesday, December 7, 1983-page 2 


lrt.Brief 
"Th P . f H " 
e rmce 0 unger' a short film, v•ill he shown today at 7: I<; in the Centt·r for Social Concerns. Peter Walshe, professor ofgovt·rnment and economics, will hold a discussion after­ward on the: political and economic aspects of hunger. The film and dist·ussion art· sponsornl by the World Hunger Coalition. All are welcome. The Obsen,~>r 
Raffie tickets will be sold in the dining halls 
today and tomorrow at lunch and dinner. The tickets, sold by the IIall President's Council, cost S. ';0 each or 3 for St. The proceeds arc gPing to Canco, a child abuse: and neglc:ct program in South Bend. The: drawing will he: Friday, December 9. The prizes are S2'; gift tTrtificatc:s for Domino's Pizza. The ObsenJer 
NASA gave the Spacelab astronautsan ex­
tra day in orbit yesterday for a voyage that experts say already is rewriting science textbooks hy disproving a 77-year-old Nobel Prize-winning theory on the inner ear. Mission Control announced that space shuttle Columbia will land at 7:1H a.m. Pacific time tomor­row. giving tht· six-man crew a full to days in orbit. Initially the mission had bt't'n due to t•nd today. Mission commanderJohn Young 
and his crewmatcs asked for some time off if the mission was ex­tended. Flight planners arranged for the astronauts to have a break from thl'ir non-stop science and It-t them look out the window and take: pictures of the Earth. The: astronauts also plan to use the extra day for solar and materials processing experiments. · AP 
FormerVice PresidentWalter Mondale is favored to win the formal support of the National Organization for Women this weekend, but California Sen. Alan Cranston is putting up a surprisingly effective fight for the presidential endorsement, NOW officials say. Ohio Sen. John Glc:nn's chances for NOW's backing in the lkmocratic presidential race evaporated with his refusal to back federal homosexual rights legislation, NOW board members said in interviews during the past week. · AP 
A double plague oftornadoesand floods hit 
tht· lkt·p South yesterday, killing one person. tearing houses from 
tiJUndations. flinging sleeping pt·oplc: into streets and reducing barns 
to mat<:hsticks. Scauered snowstorms, meanwhile, churned t ovt:'r the 
Plains and into the East and threatened to coat countless roads anew 
with in: and snow. A nt·w. big t"hill turned the eastern Rockies into 
an icebox, with tt·mJK'raturt·s dipping to a bone-numbing 31 below 
in Colorado. St·ctions ofSdma. Ala., were kvekd. A housing project 
and colkgt· dormitory \\Trt· smashed. In LaPlatT, La., 100 people 
wne homdess. Tht· deaths stood at ont· and injuries at I'; in Selma, 
whne I2 trailers, timr houses and ';() new cars at a deakr lot were 
dt·stroynl. · AP 

·Of Interest · 
The annual snowball War between South and 
North Quads erupted last night with heaviest t1ghting reported in the main 4uad area, but correspondents have offered differing rt·ports as :o the victor of the clash. Primary sources indicate, howt"ver. that South Quad forces may have had a slight edge because they wt·rc: ahk to stymie North Quad efforts to gain a dear ad· vantage:. Tht· first wave of<iracc and Flanner recruits, later joined hy Stanford and Kt·c:nan, attat·kcd Dillon Hall at approximately I 0 p.m. ami, according to North Quad sources, captured the Dillon flag after ht·avy casualties. Pouring from the dorm in full force, Dillonites began tht· march to the tower 4uad. Meanwhile, North Quad gt·m·rals, aftt-r losing the initiative. had circled troops around the library w auack Dillon from the: cast. Dillon capitalized on the weakening of NQ forces -although met by a strong force ofsome I00 membt-rs of Grace and Flanner at the pass between the North Dining llall and farky llall, the South Quad forced the pass and surrounded Flanner llall. The: North Quad forces, pierced by the South Quad auack, regrouped. desperately attempting to hold off th<: .~i<:gc. Sit'ge weapons inclm.lc:d a slingshot -made of surgical tubing and a funnd -boule rockets, and M-HO t1recrackers. The fighting, whit'h sec-sawed past midnight saw few casualties. Cor­rc:spondt·nts reported ft'wt·r than I 0 windows broken. -The Ob· 

sen'er. 

Weather· · · -·_ 
Partly sunny and cold today. High in upper 20s. Becoming mostly dear tonight. Low in upper teens. Tomorrow it will he mostly sunny and not as cold. High in mid 30s. · AP 

Father Van's unilateral pizza freeze 
The folks at Domino's are happy. No doubt, mirth is rampant at Godfather's, too. Not to mention Barnaby's, Aurelio's, Pizza Hut. Bruno's and Rocco's. Why are all of these people so happy? 
Because FatherJohn Van Wolvlear will likely han the sale ofstudent-made pizzas on campus next semester. 
That 12-inch pepperoni which used to be a phone call and a trip downstairs away will be replaced, if Van Wolvlear has his way, with Notre Dame's answer to Coney Island: the hot dog. 
Does all of this seem a little ridiculous? Why would Van Wolvlear shut down all of the pizza-making es­tablishments on the campus? And would Leprechaun Pizza Service benefit the most from the closing offood sales? 
Unanswered 4uestions abound -too many to believe that pizza sales may shut down only because of the violations contained in the recent inspection. 
For instance: 


Mark Worscheh 
News Editor 
_Inside Wednesday 
year, including the installation ofa 52,000 pizza oven in March. Stanford Hall president Joe Lynch says that the hall relies on the average $2,000 annual revenues from food sales for many of its actitivies. Does Van Wolvlear plan to reimburse halls for any possible losses? 
o What happened to the agreement to delay action passed at a meeting of the Rectors' Committee? Two rectors told The Observer on Nov. 2H that nothing had been decided. However, Van Wolvlear has consistently told both reporters and students he probably will 
o Why did an Administration decide to allow only the sale official warn a food sales of pre-packaged foods in manager last Spring to run a food sales. "tight ship" because the l ini· These questions must he 
versity has been eyeing food answered, yet Van Wolvlear sales' incomes for several 
has not gone out of his way years? to clear this matter up. nor 
o If the conditions in food has he sought a solution in sales are so deplorable and the best interests of all in· arc such a threat to campus volved. 
health, why are they still Again, it seems that a operating now? And indeed, 
major decision concerning if Van Wolvlear did know 
students is going to be made about the supposed sad state by the vice president for Stu· of sanitation this summer, 
dent Affairs without so why did he wait until Oc· 
much as consulting the stu· tober to launch an investiga· 
dents, student government tion? And why is his chief 
or student anything. investigator denying that This episode shares much 

Van Wolvlear ever discussed the matter with him before October? 
o 
Why has Michael McCauslin, the inspector, refused to release any of the details of his report to the press? What's there to hide? Shouldn't all Notre Dame students know about the cleanliness of food establishments on campus? The release of such reports is standard practice in city health departments. 

o 
What is the sense in allowing hot dogs to be sold, but not pizzas? Hot dogs must he cooked, just as pizzas are, and hot dogs can he stored just as improperly as pep· peroni. By banning pizzas, Van Wolvlear will not ac­complish anything in terms of cleanliness; he will only get rid ofpizzas. 

o 
Has Van Wolvlear thought about the investment that many dorms have made in pizza equipment, exhaust fans, and the like? Stanford Hall last year had a new ex· haust fan installed, while Grace Hall food sales manager Mike Levchuck estimates Grace made "almost $10,000 worth of improvements" since the beginning of the 


_The_ObserYer_ 
Compo.<ition Editor .................... Troy Illig Co"tfJositlon Assistant....................... Mara 1)'Jlesetter.~ .................. Mkhdle and Carol Neu•s Editor ........ ....................~..... Shogun Copy Editor............................. Kevin Ringer Sports Copy 1-'ditor ................ jdf and Mike ND Day Editor........................ Barb Stevens SMC Day Editor ............................. Mkhelle Pbotoxrapber.............. ........ Hamil Cupero 

The ObHrver (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation periods The ObNrveris published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary·s College. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The ObNrver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The ObMrver IS a member of The AuociMed Preu. All reproductiOn nghts are reserved 
with the happy hour con· 
troversy last year. In that 

incident, Van Wolvlear sent a memo to rectors which 
said happy hours were technically against University 
rules. A coalition of student groups, rectors and 
campus governments convinced Van Wolvlear that 
happy hours weren't as destructive as he had thought. 
hut not before weeks ofcontroversy and confusion had 
passed. 
Again, Van Wolvlear is threatening to take action 
without realizing the implications or merits of the act. 
His hot dog suggestion will not cure any of the ills of 
food sales. Banning the sales ofpizzas only will increase 
costs to students while cutting deeply into the funding 
ofhalls. 
The obvious solution would be for campus health of· ficials to assist food sales managers to maintain dean operations. The right thing to do would be: to give managers a chance to clean up. as many have done al· ready. 
But that seems too easy, doesn't it? Perhaps that's why everyone is so suspicious. 

Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 121 South Niles South Bend 
STUDENT UNION NIGHT 
Your Student Union needs your talents! WHERE DO YOU FIT IN BEST? Academic. Chooses speakers and organizes lectures. Concerts. Brings performers to campus and runs ticket lotteries Chautauqua. Shows movies, sponsors donees In LaFortune Ballroom. Cultural Arb. Sponsors events such as Sophomore Lit Festival, Collegiate Jazz, and Student Players. Movies. Chooses movies and organizes showings In Eng. Aud. Publicity . Show off your artistic talents or organize a commis· sian's publicity. Senrlces. Sponsors road trips to Florida, Colorado, and Liberty Bowl, Campus Sales. and Free University. ·-~;,clal· Works to improve social opportunities on campus. 
Or help out In Darby's Place, the Nazz, or Irish Gardens. We Need you!! Find out what It's all about Thursday 7 -11pm Library Lounge 
GET INVOLVED! 

Wednesday, December 7,1983-page 3 
• • .Mock 


continuedfrompage 1 
I,000 applications will be accepted 
as delegates to the convention, 
representing their home states. 
"The wide national representa­tion among Notre Dame students provides an ideal situation for the convention, since every state will be represented," O'Leary says. 
At the convention the delegates will elect a Democratic presidential nominee and draw up the party plat­form, which will express student opinions on major political, social, and economic issues. 
According to O'Leary, this year's 
continuedfrom page 1 
An attempt is now being made by the I 0 members ofthe committee to 
circulate the dorms, talking to stu­dents and gathering input on the campus alcohol issue. Seven dorms will be visited this week. Callaghan said "some tightening of restrictions 

Robin Wood 
Members of "Robin Wood," a group fighting Platz. They showed a banner reading "it's stink­against the pollution ofthe environment throws ing in East and West like the plague. 
dead firs across the Berlin w·au at Potsdamer 
Christmas Parties? CALL  the DELI  1753 E. 12th St. Mishawaka, ln. 255-7797  
Cold Meat Trays•••  

Small $18 Large $30 

Cheese Trays••• 
Small $15 Large $25 

Vegetable Trays (with dip)••• 
Small $14.50 Large $19.50 

Party Subs••• 
3/eet$30 6feet$50 
CALL FOR DETAILS 

.IIIIIIIIIII..HIIIIIII..IHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH..IHIIIIII..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII• 



MARDI GRAS Organizational Meeting 
OPEN TO ALL 

~(!~ ri ~ ~~:~~ \\ __; 
( ".11\\i~ ~[ • • ) ' 



\fr ~~lf ~ 
Thursday, Dec. 8, 7PM Chautauqua 


PLANNING A TRIP TO CHICAGO? TAKE THE NEW SOUTH SHORE 
·----------~----------------------------~ 
Comfortable, fast, convenient service to the heart of downtown Chicago. A one -way ticket is just $7. Save even more money by buying a new 10-ride ticket (valid on all non-rush-hour and weekend trains) which is 20 percent off the regu­lar fare-or ride the South Shore on Sundays when the one-way fare is just $5.60. Weekday trains to Chicago leave South Bend at 7:00 am, 8:55 am, and 8:35am local time. 
The next two Saturdays, December 10 and 17, 
an extra train has been added departing SouthI Bend at 9:35 am. Other trains on Saturdays de· :part at 7:40am, 11:30 am, 4:40pm, and 7:35pm.1On both Saturdav and Sunday, train departures 1 from Chicago are at 12:15 pm, 3:58 pm, andI 5:58pm Chicago tin1e. For more information call : 233-3111 or 1-923-1116(Mon · Fri). 


·---------------------------------------· 


LIBERTY BOWL 
HOLIDAY INN EXECUTIVE CONFERENCE CENTER 
is still accepting hotel 
reservationsfor NOTRE DAMEFANSI 
Location: 11200 E. Goodman Rd. Olive Branch, MS 38654 (25 minutes from Memphis) 
Phone: (601) 895-2941; Contact: Alma Lyne Rates: $50/Single; $60/Double; $70/Quad 

:-...... alt W. ......... ti •••• 6 e. ol A '" • o ••• II. 
convention will emphasize the choosing of the platform more than in previous years. He also points out that the convention will be "as realistic as possible, with banners, speeches, and performances by the marching band." 
O'Leary sums up the convention as "a chance to experience an actual political event, to become actively involved in the 1984 presi t dential election, and to meet a lot of other students with similar interests. We hope to have a large response for delegate positions and committee positions." 
• • . Senate 


will definitely be made," but he added that he is "95 p(:rcent sur(: the campus won't be dry for everyone.' 
The Alcohol Awaren(:ss Commit­tee will sponsor a student study break on Wednesday, Dec. 14 from 9 
p.m. to II p.m. on the main floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
• • .Phones 

continuedfrom page 1 
long distance calling company in the South Bend area, with about 2500 customers. 
Like lnfonet, Saverline also will not charge students a monthly users fee. Usually Saverline users are charged $7. SO per month. Charles Hutson, a Saverline representative, said, "Saverline calls are discounted up to 45/ with an average savings per call ofbetween 30 and 35/." 
When a student signs up for Saverline he receives a personal identification number and a local number to call when he wants to make a long distance call. This is be­cause Saverline has their switching facilities in South Bend, which 

· directs calls out. Because Saverline's switching facilities arc in South Bend, calls can be made on the Saverline network from any phone in the South Bend area. 
Saverline is offering a drawing for two free trips to Florida over Spring Break. Hutson says this is "to call at­tention to' our service." 
Students may also choose to receive MCl, which is the largest long distance company in the na· tion. A student also gets a local call­ing number as well as a S digit personal code from MCI. MCl, like Saverline can be used from any phone in the South Bend area, and the bill can be sent anywhere, as can Saverline's bills. 
MCI has three types of service to choose from. The fulltime plan al­lows a student to call at any time. It has a Sl 0 per month service charge, and calls on it save an average of 35­40/. Also available is the Supersaver plan, which has a $5 per month service charge. It lets a student call from 4 p.m. to 10 a.m. the next day, and all weekends and holidays. Calls on it are discounted the same as on the full time plan. 
The basic plan has a one time service fee of SI 0, however calls on it are discounted only S-IS/. Calling hours on the basic plan are the same a~> those on the Supersaver plan. 
The rates from all the companies are all fairly close. A call from Notre Dame to the west coast after I I p.m. will cost approximately I9 cents per minute on Infonet, I 7 cents a minute with MCI's Supersaver package, and I 5 cents on Saverline. 
A call from Notre Dame to the east coast is I7 cents per 60 seconds with Infonet, I5 cents on MCI, and I4 cents with Saverline. The same call to the east coast between 5 and I I p.m. costs 22 cents per minute, I9 cents per minute, and 23 cents per minute, on Infonet, MCI, and Saverline respectively. 
j 

..... & & .a.'J/IO/'F4"to'.,.'~,•;-.-~,:,.·.;..;_";.,,.~;;;,;;,·,. ,.r·,..:'..:"~~
....... 

' 



ViewP-~O ____________
__l_._nt 
w_e_d_ne_sd_a_y,_o_ec-em-be_r_7,_1_98_3_p_a_ge-4 
Final exam code tests faculty patience 
It is easy to get the impression that certain ad­ministralOrs don't care about faculty and student opinion, especially in light of the Academic Council's review on final exams. 
The committee's primary goal is "just improving the 
University." To at least a few thousand people around 
<.:ampus, it is not obvious that reforming finals will reach 
that end. 

The proposal would eliminate senior exemptions, en­
force the final-exam mandate and increase the weight of 
exams to a minimum of one-third and a maximum of 
two-thirds of th~: semester grade. 

The University Academic Council chose to delay ac­tion on the proposal, and with good reason. Even Father James Burt<.:hadl, a supporter of the changes, admitted that the proposal "raises very large pedagogical issues, and it's been so long since the Council has had the op­portunity to discuss something pedagogical." 
The proposal seems ill-advised not only because ten­
sions between the administration and faculty already 
are strained, but because it would set a dangerous 
precedent. 

Many professors ignore Du Lac as it is. Several give 
non-cumulative tests, since comprehensive exams 
would force them to add another test a week or two 
before finals. Others prefer to substitute an extensive 
research paper for a final exam, believing that papers 
provide a greater learning experience than rehashing 
old material. 

In some classes, a final exam (let alone one that counts 33 to 67 percent ofthe final grade) seems out of place. Art classes, computer programing and some seminar classes come to mind. 
Few ofour nation's top schools enforce such policies, and those with similar restrictions allow a weeldong "reading period" before the start of exams. Still others 
require a senior thesis before graduation. In the end, individual professors are in the best posi­tion to decide whether a course should have a final ex­
am, how much such an exam should count and whether or not seniors should be exempt. Some professors have threatened the University's 
move, with a "just let them try it" philosophy. In order to enforce its decision, the University would have little choice but to fire teachers who fail to comply. Such a price seems unfair for such a dubious goal. 
Yes, the Academic Commission should be concerned with the academic quality of the University. But telling professors what to do -in short, dictating their teach­
ing philosophy -is the wrong way. And if anybody cares, students aren't too hot on the idea either. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Food services 
/Jear l:"ditur: 
As a li10d :o.ak:o. manager. I am extremely 
alarmnl hy till" recent findings of Mr. McCaus­
lin, Notrt· Damt·'s Environmental Safety 
Spt·cialist, concerning health and safety condi­
tions of dormitory li10<.1 saks. I do not doubt 
that thert· are problems, some extremely 
serious; howt·vt·r. the mannt·r in whi<:h Fr. Van 
Wolvkar and the Rt'Ctors Committee of the 
Oltin· ofStudc:nt Affairs han<.lkd the situa­
tion M'l"ms unfair. 
First, I undlTstand Mr. McCauslin will 
visit each food salt·s to diSt·uss recommended 
improvements; howevt·r, the initial spot in· 
spt'Ctions should havt.· lleen carrkd on with 
the lilod sales managt·r prt·St·nt. 
Thert· is nothing wrong with a spot inspec· tion, on tht· nmtrary, it is pc:rhaps the only way to accurately gauge food sales sales con· ditions; however, had Mr. Causlin walked t·ach managlT through the inspection, he could have: not only pointed out trouble areas ami necessary improvements, hut also made tlw managt·rs aware of exactly what he looks t(,r when insp<Tting and what general stan· <.lards he deems an:cptabk. 
Tht· exdusion of managt·rs from tht· inspec­
tion brings me to my second point. The 
l inivt·rsity tt·nds to believe that students havt· 
httk to contributt· when dealing with campus 
prohkms whk·h alti:ct their welfare. The 
Knights of Columbus inddt·nt. The Obsert•('T 
"St·andal" and the "go stand in the corner and 
kt·t·p qukt" mt·ntality. all reflect a dangerous 
and disturbing pattt·rn of paranoid pater· 
nalism. 
The fact that I only karned of Food sales prohlt-ms hy glancing at an Obsen•<'T headline is tt·stimony to the breakdown ofcommunica· tion ht·tween studt·nts and the incrt·asingly is­
olated Dome. 
I am insultt·d, Fr. Van. that you did not consider my opinions or input important, or t•vt·n pertint·nt -and I wonder how you ex· p<'l"t t'ooperation from a group of students you rduse to acknowledge. 
l'lThaps such language is a bit strong; howt·ver. tht"Sl' art· the unmistakahk li:elings gt·nt·rated by unilateral thrt·ats and doSt·d· door committt'l" mt•t·tings. 
llad any Food sales managers bt·en con-suited, these are perhaps a few suggestions we 

would havt.· presented: 
First ofall, the reason conditions arc so atro­
cious is not due to the ddillerate efforts of 
food sales managers. On the contrary, the 
problem exists because students operating 
these facilities have littk or no background in 
the food-services business. The conditions ex­
ist out of ignorance, and the best solution to 
this is education. 
The University could hold workshops for 
food sales managers and their employees, ex­
plaining and demonstrating proper health and 
safety procedures. Student managers could 
learn what is expected ofthem and University 
personnel could be assigned the task of 
working with individual halls and the 
problems peculiar to their business. 
Secondly, a permit system could he in­
itiated by the University where, upon passing 
an initial health and safety inspection, a stu· 
dent manager would be granted a permit to 
serve his hall. Additional inspections would 
be done periodically, and retention of a per­
mit would be contingent on satisfactory in· 
spection reports. 
Eventually. once certain standards and procedures had been outlined, the permit sys­tem could be transferred to hall governments, who would administer to their respective halls. 
These are two reasonable and practical solutions to the food sales sales problem. Fr. Van and the Rectors Committee would be wise to consider them before taking action. An acceptable compromise can be reached if the University is willing to act responsibly and reasonably. 
We stand at a crossroads, Fr. Van -either accept the challenge ofcooperation and work with food sales managers to improve health and safety conditions, or act unilaterally to in­stall your own food sales policy, only further ceml·nting the University's image of being militant and reactionary, and isolating your office even further fro.n the respect and sup­port of the students. 
David A. Dziejowski 

ND prohibition 
/Jear Editor: 
The current talk of a dry Notre Dame is reminiSt·ent of Prohibition, speakeasies, and 
The Observer~ 

1'. 0. /lox!}. .\"otre IJam(•. /.\" ·I(> 556 (.!I')) .!3'J· 5303 
I he ( JIJsert•er i~ till" indept·mlull Ill"\\ ~paper puhlishnl h\ thl" stmknts of thl" l ni· n·r~it\· of Notre l>amt· du l.ac and ~aint .\tan·~ Colkgl". It doc~ not ntTt"ssaril\· rdkn till" polil"it·~ of till" admini~tration of l·itlwr institution. The Ill"\\~ is rtportnl as ac­curatdr and as ohjectin-1\· a~ possihk l nsignnlnlitorials rt·present th~· opinon of a majority ofthl· Editorial Hoard. ( :omrm·ntarit·s. kltl-rs. and tht·lnside Column present tht· \"it·ws oftlwir authors.< :olumn spatT is a\"ailahk to allml·mhers ofthe community. amlthl" frn· t·xprl·~'ion of\"arying opinions on campus. through kttt·rs. is encouraged. 
• 
bath!Ub gin. Although I applaud the University 
for taking a serious look at the use of alcohol 
on campus, I must consider the dry campus 
option as detrimental to an already serious 
and delicate problem. 
We must look at reality before we try to solve this problem; alcohol is a major com­ponent of the social life here and until we 
change that attitude, students will feel the need to drink to celebrate, cope and forget. 
By prohibiting the use of alcohol, we are not prohibiting the students to drink, we are only forcing them to work a little harder at obtaining and using it In essence, we are not solving the problem, just whitewashing it so we can not notice it so readily. 
We should take a positive approach towards addressing this problem, instead of the negative, prohibitive action. First, we can attack the alcoholic attitude by strongly encouraging and organizing nonalcoholic ac· tivities as a permanent solution. However, this takes time. Therefore, we also need a more direct immediate plan. 
Ifwe recognize alcohol abuse as a personal problem, not merely a disciplinary problem, even for the first-timer. and if we recognize that responsible drinking is a realistic ex­pectation and skill, we can begin to affect the situation immediately. 
Swift and strong response to anyone found intoxicated is necessary. This response should include counseling, retribution for any damage and a general discussion and possible reformation of the student's attitude towards alcohol. Of course, this must be strictly and very consistently enforced in order to have any effect. 
But we must be willing to invest the needed time, effort and money into our campus. In this manner we treat the cause, not the symptoms of the alcohol problem, and we talce a positive step towards mature and responsible handling of alcohol, instead of a negative step towards behind closed doors abuse. 
Denise M. Mick 

FIRST t.'AISICAL ~RS RRST BETli~ LIN£ 5TATE STAlE 
ffi5T 'THIS (1{'§ F~ A FIRST R\JSStAlfRouLETrE STATE MICilELOB liSHT 'STAlE. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief...............................Davili Dziedzic Managing Editor ....................... Margaret Fosmoe Executi11e Editor................................. Paul McGinn News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide News Editor....................................Mark Worscheh Saint Mary•'s Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor ................................. Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor..........................................Scott Bower 
A~T ~SWE F~l ()OC.US STA1t ~ S1RAW P!llSlATE FIRST SJAAW.rolHO-SET­~-STRAW·ro..l-Mit STAT£ 

FIRST :RIN-THE·OOTfl£ SW£ 
AR5T PII-1-TllE·TAIL·ON·lllE· 
CNJDII:Io\TE STATE 

ARST ONH~TATO, TWO·roTATO STAT£ OOT TIIRKEY ~1 flA1£ 
f«JT fE~-MtENIE· MINIE-MO BrAT£ 

Department Managers Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen Controller ...............................................Alex Szilvas Advertising Manager .........................Jeanie Poole Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto Systems Manager ........................... Kevin Williams 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Sports Briefs 
An informational meeting for those who are 
interested in the NDSU's student trip to Aspen over Spring Break will be held tonight at 7 p.m. on LaFortune's Little Theater. Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are invited to attend. -The Ob­
seroer 
Ifyou have been waking up earlyand do 
not know what to do with yourself, or if you are caught in a rut and cannot.get out, or even ifyou just want a break from reality, the NVA has something for you. It is called "Wake 'em Up Week" and it is part of the Century Club for fitness. Early today there was Sunrise Swim­ming at the Rockne Pool. Tomorrow. there is an Early Bird jog. It is a 25-minute fun jog with door prizes included. The jogbegins at 7:30 
a.m. and all joggers should report to Gate 4 of the ACC. If you are planning to come, call the NVA at 239-6100 in advance. -The Ob­
server 
TEACH 

FREE UNIVERSITY 
Share your talents and skills! This is your chance to teach anything you want (almost) ... from mixology to 
auto mechanics to finger dancing to ...?! 
rpe6? y fJ® ~/~ 
Sign up with Margaret at S.U. Office today! r 
' 

• 
------~­
Wednesday, December 7, 1983 -page 5 
• • • Hope 
continuedfrom page 8 moving the ball around quickly. The were losing the ball before we even 
Mike Rouse. "We weren't hitting the Flying Dutch jumped out to an 11-4 had a chance to shoot. We just have shots and we turned the ball over so lead after five minutes ofplay, due in to play harder than that ifwe expect much that it was obvious we weren't part to many trips to the free throw to outrun and outlast teams like mentally in the game." line and a pressing defense that Hope." 
Hope College, a Holland, Mich. forced the Belles into numerous tur­After a time-out, however, the school with a 3-1 record, played a novers. Belles found inspiration as they patient and consistent game, hitting "Turnovers were a big, big reeled off six straight points to take the shots that they needed and problem tonight," said Rouse. "We the lead at 16-13. Trading points and turnovers for the remainder of the half, the teams went into the locker 
IF THERE'S LEADERSHIP 
room with Hope ahead by a basket, 27-25.
INYOU,OCS 
To begin the second half, the
CAN BRING IT OUT. 
Flying Dutch moved out quickly
OCS (Army Officer Candidate School) is a 14-week 
again, outscoring the Belles 10-2 to 
challenge to all that is in you ... the mental, the physi­
lead 37-27 with 14 minutes remain­ing_ Saint Mary's was forced to play catch-up for the remainder of the 
cal, the spirit that are part of what makes a leader. 
If OCS were easy, it couldn't do the job. It wouldn't 
game, struggling for consistency as
bring out the leader in you, or help you discover what 
guard Mary McQuillan fouled out 
you have inside. 

and back-up forward Teresa McGin­nis was out temporarily with a leg injury. Despite many opportunities 
But when you finish and graduate as a commis· 
sioned officer in the Army, you'll know. You'll know 
to close the gap, the Belles missed
you have what it takes to lead. And you'll be trim, alert, 
the key shots and Hope emerged
fit, and ready to exercise the leadership skills that 
with a convincing win. 
civilian companies look for. 

1n the scoring, foul shots made the
If you're about to get your degree and you want to 
difference as Saint Mary's converted 
develop your leadership ability, take the OCS 
13 of 19 attempts for 68 percent 
challenge. 

while Hope made 22 of 33 free throws for 81 percent. McQuillan
Call your local Army Recruiter, and ask about OCS. 
carried high-point honors for the
SGT JONES 234-4187 

Belles with 11, while Suess scored 
Call Collect 

10, Short eight, Kreber and Kris Pan­telleria six each, Betsy Ebert four,
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
and McGinnis two points. 
The Obseroer Notre Dame office, located on the third Ooor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obseroer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor ofHaggar College Center, acceptsclassifieds from 12:30 
p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday Deadline for next day clas­sifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. 
Classifieds 
Charge is I 0 cents per seven characters per day. 
NOTICES 

TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 
GERRY FAUST IS NOT A MAJOR COL­LEGE FOOTBALL COACH. 
THE GRADUATE : THE GRADUATE : THE GRADUATE . THE GRADUATE: THE GRADUATE: THE GRADUATE: THE GRADUATE: THE GRADUATE II! THIS Wednesday and Thursday at 7.9. and 11 p.m. 
WASHINGTON DC BUS SIGN UPS THURS DEC. 8 7TO 8 PM LAFORTUNE 
THE BAND DIRECTORS HAVE "NO CLASS" 
WHY ARE SOME MUSICAL DIRECORS "CHILDISH"??? 
Hrt Silky Sullivan's when you're in Memphis for the Liberty BowL Can your system handle a gallon of furniture polish, Spanish fly. and Rota-rooter juice? 
HEY BENNO. WHAT DISEASE?! HEY BILL. WHO'S WHIPPED?! 
DANCING11/2 PRICE DRINKS! FOOD! FATHER HESBURGH! ALL AT THE GRADUATE STUDENT UNION CHRISTMAS PARTY. ONLY 2$ FOR THE GALA GRADUATE EVENT OF THE YEAR 8-12 PM. FRI. DEC 9. CCE. 
CHRISTMAS NAZZ This Sat. night at 9 PM 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: HP15C CALCULATOR 
I lost my Hewlett-Packard calculator 1n the Engineering Computer Room on Wed­nesday. Nov. 9. It has btg initials of OS in the nght corner. If found, call David at 277­1326. Reward offered. No questions. 
LOST: A gold signet ring with the lnl­tlala BSA. Be-n Dillon and Alumni on Friday Nov. 18. If found call Beth 
284-<W30 
GLASSES LOST: On Monday. Novem­
ber 29, I lost a pa1r of prescription glasses 
81ther in the business building, North 
Dining Hall, or on the path in between 
They are women's glasses with black 
tinted frames and gold sidepieces. If 
you've found them. please contact 
Leanne Michelle at 7009. or come by 304 
Lewis Hall. Thank you so much I!!! 
LOST 11/30/83 BROWN LEATHER BIFOLD. DURING THE MORNING HOURS AT THE ROCKNE. PLEASE KEEP THE MONEY BUT RETURN THE WALLET. CALL 1641 EDDY LLANO 321 GRACE 
LOST: Amethyst ring at Lewis Hall Formal 12/2. Great sentimental value_ Please call6289. 
HELP! someone picked up my light brown gloves wrth wool lining at the library on 11­
30. Please call paul at 164 7 if you found them_ 
FOUND: A Silver hand held Oigrtal Clock in a brown case, Friday night at Farley's Red and Green Party_ To claim please call Patrick at 1754. 
LOST: Blue Denim Jacket Last seen in hallway with other coats at St. Ed's party Saturday night. VERY IMP'T. Please call PATil at 6825_ No questions asked. 
Lost-Woman's gold watch. Bet. Farley and O'Shag on 12/5. If found, PLEASE CALL6881. 
LOST: HARRIS TWEED JACKET_ LEFT AT HAGGAR CENTER FRIDAY NITE. REWARD CALL RAY 283-110L 
LOST 1/10 oz_ of MAN OIL from the "wee bald mouse" last friday night in the Holy Cross study room. If you know where IT is or have seen the "one who groans" please call SLAP at 3182 
lost key ring with approximately 8 keys on it. if found. please call 3270. handsome rew1ard! 
LOST: ONE PAIR OF EYEGLASSES in a gray glasses case on Friday. Decembe1 2 in the CSC building or North Dining Hall or somewhere in between. H found, please call Debbie at 6751_ 
I LOST A RED, V-NECK, IZOD SWEATER AT ALUMNI'S CHRISTMAS PARTY ON SATURDAY THE 3RD OF DECEMBER. If you have the sweater, please call7374_ 
LOST: NAVY BLUE NYLON MEN'S JACKET, SIZE LARGE, SAYS "MOUNTAIN" ON IT. REWARD. CALL 
6654. 
WANTED 
RIDE NEEDED TO NEW YORK. 
SYRACUSE OR THE VICINITY AFTER 
FINALS CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 
ANYTIME. 
Rid~r~ ~~~d~d i~ ATLANTA·~;·~~;;;;;~;~ 
along 1-75 or 1-16 & 1-95 in Georgia. Leaving after finals. Call Alan at 1402. 
AM DRIVING TO JAX. FLA FOR XMAS, VIA 1-65, 1-75. CAN TAKE 2,3. LEAVE 12/22. RETURN 1/14_ CALL 4739_ 
WANTED: Defensive backs lor game Dec. 29. No experience necesaary. Apply football omce, ACC. 
····················································-·~·-t·_,., j 
t Wanted: Dependable female to share living expenses in furnished house 15 minutes from campus. $150.00 per month Includes utilities. Non-smoker preferred. Call 239-5930 or 291-9644_ Ask for 
Brenda_ Need one rider to ea t st PA. Allen­town/Reading area for Xmas. Leaving Wed21. Call Dean 8651_ 

NEED RIDE TO BOSTON FOR X-MAS BREAK, WILL SHARE USUAL CALL MARK8906 
Why is JOE YONTO sitting behind a desk and not controlling the defense? 
Need ride to Iowa Crty Iowa for Dec. 9 return Dec. II Call J.D. 234 4511 . will share expenses. 
HORSE DIED! NEED RIDE TO BOSTON AREA FOR XMAS. WILL SHARE EX­PENSES(BARLEY.HOPS) CALL PAT 8654 
NEED A RIDE TO BUF­FALO.ROCHESTER.OR SYRACUSE OR ANYWHERE CLOSE CALL NICK 8207 
ONE RIDER NEEDED TO HOUSTON; LEAVING EARLY ON 12/21. CALL ROB 8102 
Wanted: Riders and roomates to share expenses at the Liberty Bowl Leave from erther Ohio or Upstate New York Dec_ 27 return Dec. 30 Call Jim at 1171 
Need ride to St. Louis on 19th. Call Ann 5067 or Nancy 4429 
NEED RIDE 0 ST. LOUIS CAN LEAVE SAT. DEC-17CALL284-5481 
NEED 2 RIDERS TO DALLAS/FT_ WORTH AREA LEAVING DEC_ 19 OR 2Q_ CALL KATHY AT 239-5890. 
I need my car driven back to RB. from Pompano Beach. FL. after X-MAS break. If interested. call Dee at 233-5771_ 
Need ride to CLEVELAND 12-20 after 4 pm.Call Pam 2989. 
Need ride on I-80East to East PA_Can leaveTue 12/20-ROB 1750 
WANTED: FEMALE TO SHARE 2 BOA APT. JAN-MAY $137 & UTILITIES VILLAGE TERRE APT CALL 277-5168 ATER 5 PM_ 
NEED RIDE TO O.C_ FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 5 PM ON MON_ 12/19 CALL MEGAN 4238 SMC_ 
RIDERS needed to ROCH NY 12/21 Call Dave 234-0537 
FOR SALE 
LIBERTY BOWL T-SHIRTS FOR SALE GREAT SOUVENIR AND CHRISTMAS PRESENT. CALL DON 1463 
For Sale: Accumulated criminal. civil, and corporate law books. Valued at $2.000. Will take best offer. Contact Leon at 233­5705. 
FOR SALE: '74 yellow beetle, great mec­hanically. some rust. $600. 277-1454 between 1 Opm & 12_ 
TAKING THE MCATS THIS SPRING? STANLEY KAPLAN'S MCAT COURSE BOOKS FOR SALE BEST OFFER CALL 284-5249 
LARGE HOUSE FOR SALE Near NO golf course, 5 bedrooms up. 3 baths. fireplace, carpets. garage and more_ Fuel saver. low maintenance, warrenty. $64,000. 289-1687 
SHEEP FOR SALE CALL SHEEP.. WOMAN AT 2912 
TICKETS 
DESPARATELY NEED TWO LIBERTY BOWL TIKS CALL 272-3491 
I need 6 GA's (together) to the DePaul game_ Pay$$$! Call Beth 284-4030 
I NEED UBERTY BOWL TICKETS! CALL JIM AT x1 T72 AFTER 6pm. 
PERSONALS 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR 
Lost in engineering computer room. CsJI David at 277-1326. No questions asked_ Reward offered. 
DONT PAY FULL PRICE when coupons lor discounts are as close as the yellow pages of your Campus Telephone Direc­tory. Check Today' 
PAYABLE UPON RETURN By Michael Varga. A story of loving friends and loving countries. Available Now in the Notre Dame Bookstore_ 
GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUT!! BUY A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINE. WE STILL DELIVER 9-12pm CALL 272-4453_ 
Give that someone special a Xmas gift they'll never forget Order a "Holiday Tuck In" available thru Regina Hall at SMC. Christmas Bazzar. 
PLEASE send the holy roller back to Moeller_ 
MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GODI!! MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GOO!!! MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GOO!!! MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GOO!!! MARC RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN-GOD!!! 
satisfied? 

Will the Wonder Women save this State of Independence? 
Send friends posters for X-mas! On sale now_ 
Dining halls at dinner_ Dec. 5-0ec. 9. 
Don't miss out on the Fine Arts Poster 
Sale! 

NEED TO GO X-MAS SHOPPING?-A BUS TO CHICAGO ON DEC. 12 WILL BE LEAVING AT 8:15 RETURNING AT 6 PM. BUY TIX AT STUDENT ACTIVITIES FOR$9-00. 
MADMAN RAMIREZ MADMAN RAMIREZ MADMAN RAMIREZ MAD­MAN RAMIREZ MADMAN RAMIREZ MADMAN RAMIREZ MADMAN RAMIREZ MADMAN RAMIREZ MAD­MAN RAMIREZ MADMAN RAMIREZ MADMAN RAMIREZ MADMAN RAMIREZ 
........:L.......................................·-·······-­
The Observer Production Department: It's not just a job, rt's an adventure_ Stop by the LaFortune ollie t e for more info_ 
Looking for a job next semester? Make friends and earn respect in The Observer Production Department doing latenight layout work_ A limrted number of paid positions are available_ Work schedule will be planned before Christmas break. so apply soon_ Stop by the LaFortune office for an application and more info. 
ATTENTION 
COMPOSrTION STAFFI 

Meeting on December 11 at 7:00 p_m. to 
decide next semester's work schedule. II 
rt is important to you as to the night you 
work then be there_!!! Any problems. 
Jeave a message for Suzanne. 
COMPOSITION EDITORS 
I ASSISTANTS! 

be there Sunday 12/11 to choose your 
night to work for next semester_ 7:00 in 
The Observer office_ 

ALL CONNECTICUT CLUB MEMBERS: Sign-ups for Christmas Break Bus will be this Thursday. Dec. 8 at 6:30pm. on 1st floor La Fortune_ Only first 45 students will be taken so SIGN UP EARLY!!! Ques­tions call Tim 1178. 
Theology Forum Members: Pleaae par­ticipate In the Advent Pnoyer Service tonlghletl 0:00p.m. In the Howard Hall Chapel. Profeasora Egan and l'rcle.­sor Mallts, C.S.C., both of SL Mary's Dept. of Re-llglous St&oclles, will lead the aervlce. 
ATTENTION !!! DONT MISS THE .. GRADUATE .. starring Dustin Hofffman. wrth Simon and Gartunkel THIS WED_ AND THURS., DEC_ 7th and 8th in the Engineering Auditorium : 7,9.and 11 p.m. 
ATIENTION SMC: This Thursday. 3 NO HUNKS will be dining at SMC. Here's your chance to reserve a spot at their table. Do you like animals? Call8186 and claim a spot next to a real live teddy-bear. Is tennis your raquet? Ca -112754 to set up some mixed doubles_ Would YD'J like din­ner wrth an International flair? Call27 47 to set up your Rendez-vous. BON AP­PETIT!!! 
BOAT DRINKS!!!!! NOW THAT WE HAVE YOUR A TIENTION, BE SURE TO ATIENO THE SENIOR CLASS CHRISTMAS COCKTAIL PARTY FRIDAY. DECEMBER 9 FROM 6-10 PM IN THE MONOGRAM ROOM-SEE' YOU THERE!! 

DINNER FOR 4 AT AULRELIO'S or A $25 GIFT CERTIFICATE TO DOMINO'S Buy a raffie ticket this week at the north or south dining hall during erther lunch or dinner. All proceeds go to CANCO. a charitable organizatiOn for abused and neglected children_ Raffle sponsored by HPC (Hall President's Council). 
WASHINGTON DC BUS SIGN UPS: Thursday Dec_ 8 Second floor LaFortune 7-8 PM_ Due to bus strike price is now $90 roundtrip, 
Chris Barilla is a man-god! 

GET YOUR ACT TOGETHER KEMPTON 
n·s snowing. Yea! 

REGINA 3RO SO. I KNOW THINGS MAY BE A LITTLE TOUGH RIGHT NOW. BUT REMEMBER GOO LOVES YOU AND SO DOI.MJ 
BOSTON CLUB BUS INFO... Ptane/Train unreasonable. Round-Trip on bus $135_00 (due to Greyhound strike)_ SIGNUPS on Thursday Dec_ 8 at 8:00pm in LaFortune. First come, first served_ Questions: 1434. 1498. 
ROSEANNE and MIKE: Congratulations on the new baby! Love, Maripat 

To the real Notre Dame varsity basketball team: 
Make Mary Di and Mary Murphy's homecoming to Northwestern a success­ful one. Best of luck as you take rt to the Wildcats tonight 
Mary's Oi-hards 
JUNIORS--JUNIORS-JUNIORS IN­TERESTED IN CHAIRPERSON FOR NEXT YEARS SENIOR TRIP? APPLICA­TIONS AVAILABLE IN STUDENT AC­TIVITIES OFFICE NOW! DUE BACK 12/12/83 
PUNK RAST A LOWRIDERS FROM HELL-ROCK 105! 
GREG. TEO. JIM: WE HAD A SUPER TIME ON FRIDAY NIGHT. HOPE YOU DID TOO! WE'RE STILL TRYING TO FIGURE OUT IF THE HALLWAY WENT UP ... OR DOWN! ML,LG.AND TO 
CHRISTMAS NAZZ is coming! Th1s Saturday mght 9 PM 
CHRISTMAS NAZZ! CHRISTMAS NAZZ! CHRISTMAS NAZZ! 
You know you'll never find no gold on a sandy beach You'll never drill lor oil on no city streets. You'll never find a ruby in a mountain of rocks, And there ain't no Coupe de Ville Hidin' at the bottom of a Cracker Jack box. 
-Meatloaf 

• 

The Observer 
• 

continuedfrom page 8 
the other is 6-2 Shawn Watts, whose 63-percc:nt shooting from the field led to a IS. c; scoring average as a senior. 
"They're just steady players for freshmen," evaluates Phelps. "I think (Northwestern coach) Falk is trying to get them ready for the Big Ten competition." 
In terms of personnel, Northwes­tern is much likt: the Irish. 
"Wl' have a rather young and smaller lineup," Falk says. "Notre Dame is also young, much like us. 
continuedfrom page 8 
will be trying to punch the ball into arc Mary Beth Schueth and Carrie Bates, among others. Schucth, the 6­0 center, had her best game of the year against UCLA, scoring 17 points and pulling down nine rebounds. Bates, who was named North Star Conference player of the week for her outstanding performance against the Bruins ( 18 points, six rebounds in 22 minutes), will be abk to see some action despite twisting her knee against UCLA. 
Forwards Trena Keys, Ruth Kaiser, and Lavetta Willis will help out Schueth and Bates inside, while point guard Vonnie Thompson will guide the Irish offense. Denise Bas­ford, Lynn Ebben, and Laura Doug­herty will help Thompson try to beat 
WEDNESDAY 

3 -8PM Mixed Drinks 2 for 
10-3AM Music By Dewan 


lltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii...IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'I 
NOTRE DAME Residence Hall Students!  SPECIAL STUDENT BILLING NUMBERS ARE BEING ELIMINATED AT THE END OF  
THIS SEMESTER.  

YOU MAY PICK UP YOUR PERSONAL SECURITY CODE IN ORDER TO DIRECT DIAL LONG DISTANCE CALLS NEXT SEMESTER. 
1~··· "THE NOTRE DAME 
STUDENT TELEPHONE NETWORK" 
•ON CAMPUS SYSTEM DEDICATED r----------,
TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS Early Registration : 
•DISCOUNT 
RATES THIS WEEK 

•NO 
FEE OR MINIMUM lower level of Lafortune Student Center ­


SIGN UP NOW! AVOID DELAYS AT REGISTRATION! 
....H ..........IIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIeMIIIt...IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMI....IIHM.....IItlllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllll.....l.l 
Everybody says that it is a rebuilding year for us and it is hard to disagree. We like to use the word building, though, because our program is still aspiring." 
Northwestern now stands at 3-l, its one loss coming at the hands of Loyola of Chicago. 
Last year's NIT tournament was the first ever post-season ap­pearance for the Wildcats. Just making it to a tournament was quite a boost for Northwestern; conse· quently, its win over Notre Dame did wonders for the program. 
Northwestern's pressure defense. 
"We did something Saturday we had to do," says DiStanislao. "We played consistently for the whole game and the players did as they were told. We'll have to do the same thing against Northwestern. They have some real tenacious players 
and, despite losing five letterwin­ners, Northwestern has a tradition that always maltes them tough to beat." 
Much of that tradition which the Wildcat women's basketball program has comes from DiStanislao herself, who coached NU for five years before moving to Notre Dame. DiStanislao led the Wildcats from obscurity to national prominence in her five years there, compiling a 90­27 mark and leading the Wildcats to 



HEALTH AND REHABILITATION SERVICES 
Alooholltm Council 234«12' lduullanel, tniQI'ffttii!Onel, rtfet•el tnd c_I..IIOn -w.. tlm.cl 11 rt'dvclnt It'll till OltiCOIIOhttY'I 
Arthrltlt Socltty 234-3138 AlldWIIId with United H•l!l'l ..,_ lnlormttiOI'Ial, toeh,•c:ehon tnd rtltfrel pfOiftml Comlon !ltml, 1111f·"--P ~~-• lOt" lt1hrltlt petleonu 
Ctnctr Society 234·3138 AIIIIWIItd wllh UniiN H...lh ltfvicet lnfomwtiOn, eCNnMIIng, VIIIIMIOII, t~ltrrel tnd 111f1IPO'I"Ion, comfort ltMN, d,_lngt, MtUI~ntloerulcw c-• Nl*"n 
Children'• Dent., Clink! Memori81 Hotpitll 23C·I041 
Oet~tlol tntntlon lor chlld,.n nol 1~ to obtain~ hom 1 prt~o~~~ll 
Oerl\lt\ 
Council lor tht Retarded ICFRI 288-4831 
Oeyc.teiii'Miii'ICIIIIIyMt'viCniOtiMIIt.erdlldliftd~~a.lly doa.bled O~rattl Lo.,.n Ctntlr, Lot~n lndull!....,.., 1M EvMu1110n and Rtl1rr1l Ctnllf 
Cyme F1broti1 Counc:U 293·7731 Trtttll\lnt d..,nouoc ..,.luauon. thetapy ~ -ou~nl loent lor Cyttlc:FibrOIIIPIII.nll 
Ooodwllllnduttrln 234·1681 RthtbUIItiJon, ltalnlng, twlultlon, empfoyll\lnl and planm.ntlor th• htndlc..,ld .nd dlaabl" tcl!,.llll 
H..rint and SpeKh C...tar 234-3138 Allll1111td Wllh Unltad .,_lth Slrvtc• Complall h_,1ng M'Od tc)H(h wrvlcn lor child""~ adultt 
Manul Hulth Anoclatlon 234·1049 
Mac:hton Center 234.()()61 Full rang~ of ....,vlc:M lor clllldrltfl tnd ldullt lnoQ\It pet1111tlr•t· m'"'· counMHne. crltlt inttr..,.ntlon. ADAPT Progr~ 
loclety tor Crtppttd Children 6 Adults 234·3131 Educ.tlon and r.nabihlltiOI'Iol piOfl'lml IOf phys.etlly htncbc~ lduluandchlldten lllllfmlfiY f.,.ttr Seal Soc11tv IDIOQI'Iml 
IS*:illlzed TrentportaUon SyftMI ISTI) 232.0()81 Provldn tCMCitl ntniPOftttlon ""'vic" tor m..,tally tnd DhYtlc:lolly diMbladpettOnl 
United Health Serl6c4111 IUHII 234-3138 Aflll..tad ,.I'ICln lncludl Arthrltlt loclety, ..._,lntiiii'Mi Speech Ctnter, Ctnclet locle1y tnd hUfr Seal loc:iltv. ~lth Ctubt: Mtkt Today Count, Utyf"IIICIOII'IY, O.tomy tnd Juokt ChO. 
Vbitlnt Nut'M A~~kln 234-3181 Horne hMlth Clft undtf phyuc~·· tuldenc. ·nulling, Nllth tldt 
.net ''*'PY· 
• . Revenge 
"It (the NIT win) brought credit to our program," comments Falk. "We are labelled as a winner on the outside now. And once you are recognized for post-season acheive­ment," Falk continues, "it's uplifting. It's obvious. We see it every day in our players." 
"We haven't forgotten that this is the team that beat us in the NIT," comments Phelps on his players' feelings about the game. "I think the players know that you respect Northwestern because they beat you, and we do respect them. 
• • • Test 
the quarterfinals of the AlAW Na­tional Tournament. 
But, while she still has a number of friends at Northwestern, the Wildcats will not act too friendly to the Irish as they try to build their own tradition under DiSranislao. 

"TmeConfessions ofa ·P&GBrandManager" 
LEARN ABOUT CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN ADVERTISING AND MARKETING AT PROCTER AND GAMBLE 
ALL MAJORS INVITED 
SlideShow81. PresentationPlus a Discussion of Commercials from PBI.G's HALL OFFAME 81. SHAME 
Wednesday, December 7 7:30P.M. CCE LowerLevel Auditorium -Reception Following-


Wednesday, December 7, 1983 -page 6 
Lecture Series The Artistic Process: WHAT IS ART? 
Slide lectures designed ro introduce viewers to basic ideas and techniques in the making ofart. 
December 8  "REMBRANDT f.TCHINGS" Clifford Ackley,  
7:30p.m.  associate curator of prints, drawings and  
photographs, Boston Museum of Fine Arts  

Held In Annenberg Auditorium, The Snlte Museum of Art University of Notre Dame 
In conjunclion wilh lhr Exhibilion: "THt: ARTISTIC PROCESS: IOEAS ANO Tt:CHNIQllt:S" O'ShauRhnessy Main Gallery. THE SNITt: Ml/SEllM m· ART 
Sponsored by Fr1ends ofthe Snlfe-Admmwn 11; Sl Sludt>nu and f'rtends 
ATTENTION JUNIORS!!! 
If your parents have not received Junior Parents' Weekend information by mail; pick up an information packet at the Student Activities Office 1st Floor La Fortune 



..... ,­

~t(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------~-t_~_:n_e_~_a•y•,D--ec_e_m_b_e_r_7_,_1_9_8_3__~P~~~e

..7 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
coin Center  
ACROSS  27 Sheep  48 Texas  12 Science  
The Daily Crossword  1 Bauble 5 Trudge 9 Furniture wood  28 Droop 29 Name in tennis 30 Annoy  headgear 50 Exercises 54 Unpredic· table  work area 13 Givethe once-over 21 Most modern  Far Side  
14 Sailor's  33 -boy!  56 Extant  22 Wooden  
.,--r..--r.-:--r.:-::--r.;:---.  patron  35 H au I  58 Lopez  fasteners  
saint  36 Table  theme song  25 French  
 
-:-::--+--t--+-+-~  15 Vein  spreads  59 Fatigue  river  
 
16 Assortment  37 Before  60 Enjoy a  26 Salamanders  
-=-+----1--+----11--1 17 Ladd of  38 English  party  28 Lorelei,  
movies  river  61  Simple  for one  
18 Certain  40 Thus  fellow  30 Mails  
tennis  41  Docile  62 Other  31 George or  
serves  43 Cubic  63 Pinnacle  Thomas  
19 Queen of  meters  64 Heating  32 Mysterious  
Thebes  44 Crags  apparatus  34 Bring into  
20 Manhater  46 Stannum  65 Recondite  harmony  
..,.,...-+----11--1 23 Stanzas  47 Weight of  37 Cardinal  
--+----11--1 24 Desk a pendulum Tue~ay's Solution  DOWN 1 Radiates 2 Miss-in  title 39 Felt con­trition  
"Dallas"  42 Over  
3 Hoard  43 Mouth·like  
4 Bestow  openings  
upon  45 Allen and  
5 Phonograph  Martin  
record  49 Silvery  
6 Lomond  fish  
and Ness  50 Eagle's  
7 Czech  weapon  
river  51 Useful  
8 Uninhabited  52 Analyze a  
9 -·depres­ sentence  
sive  53 Snooze  
10 Wheat  55 Origin  
1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved  12/7/83  beard 11 Dissenter  56 Bow 57 Sea god  Games you can play with your cat.  
WEDNESDAY  

BEER SPECIAL 
LAST ONE OF THE SEMESTER! 


Campus 
•12:05 
p.m. -Colloquium, "Israel and South Africa," Prof. Alan Dowty, 122 Hayes-Healy 

•4:30 
p.m. -AFROTC Job Seminar, Library Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Lecture, "Technical Con­cerns in Building Expert Systems," Prof. Bruce G. Buchanan, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "The Graduate," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Sopho­more Class, $1 

•7 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, For ND/SMC Students with diabetes interested in forming a group for diabetics, Room 2D, Second Floor LaFortune 

•7:30 
p.m. -Presentation-Reception, Proctor and Gamble -Advertising Division, CCE Lower Level Dining Area, Sponsored by Career and Place­ment Services, All interested students welcome 

•8 
p.m. -Amnesty International Meeting, 304 Haggar College Center 


TV Tonight 
6p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  The MacNeiVLehrer Report  
6:30p.m.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS News  
28  ABC's World News Tonight  
7p.m.  16  MASH  
22  PM Magazine  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  Contemporary Health Issues  
7:30p.m.  16  Barney Miller  
22  Family Feud  
28  Wheel of Fortune  
34  Straight Talk  
8p.m.  16  Real People  
22  Snow White's Christmas  
28  Fall Guy  
34  Survival Special  
9p.m.  16  FactsofUfe  
22  Wednesday Night Movie  
28  Dynasty  
34  Great Performances Uve From Un- 

U~, AC111AlLY I H€Y,1HI5 /HJNK lf'5 AN Ae(, t001(5 e:.m.. vm/MOOARY 
A1\¥\R ON i£BANON. MlJ/1€.' I 1HINK. 

Fate 
Yot.t MUST 8£ THE' 


Mellish 

Ya\H! ~ST
1
111M'5£1<£K. 
~~-~ 00.1 7HIS IS
11
f 6f{A 'ff.. 


Photius 

You TWO lWYS AX£ GQVN4
WHO Af(£ YOU 0/IOEJ( 


/WI()!£ TilE WHOI£ Cf!DW{J? 

Dave & Dave 
..E TAJf INTD A((DIQI T THE SJII0EifF1.S PtUCIITE NEUS ~ ALL TM PWSIA'/J Wf MAI;'l. 
I 


1'4AJI/115 

The Observer/File Photo 
Northwestern's Art Aaron, shown here being must stop tonight as they travel to Evanston, Ill., to xuarded by Iowa's Bob Hansen and Steve Carfino in take on the Wildcats. For more on tonight's game, see BiK Ten action last year, is the key man that the Irish jeffBlumb's story below. 
Revenge on their mind 
Irish travel to Northwestern 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
AssistantSports Editor 
With revenge on its mind, the Notre Dame basketball team travels to Evanston, Ill., tonight to face Northwestern. The Irish will be hoping to avenge last year's 7l·S7 NIT opening·round loss to the Wildcats, which ended a nine-game Notre Dame domination dating back to the 1960-6 I season. 
In order to beat Northwestern, Notre Dame will have to contain the fine forwards of the 'Cats, Art Aaron and Andre Goode. Northwestern's second-leading scorer last season with an average of 14. S points per game, the 6-8, 200-pound Aaron is the the 'Cats top offensive threat. 
Aaron started all 30 Northwestern games last year, shooting S 1 percent from the field on his way to being an honorable mention on the all-Big Ten team. A streak shooter, Aaron is also one of the Wildcats' top defensive players, as shown by the fact that he led Northwestern in steals last year with 47. 
"Aaron is a very, very quick for­ward who has good ability to get open and get a shot off," says Irish coach Digger Phelps. "Our concern is our matchup to him. He plays like a Magic Johnson with his size and ballhandling ability. We really don't have somebody that quick defensively to play him." 
Goode is the other big Northwes­tern threat. The 6-10, 22S-pound junior averaged 9.8 points per game a year ago playing out of position at the center slot. Playing in all 30 games last year as Aaron did, Goode also had a team-leading 6.7 
rebounds per game and was the 
Wildcats' top shot blocker with 22 on the season. 
"Goode is a dangerous shooter when he gets open shots in their transition game," says Phelps. "He's also very strong inside. 
"That's the key to beating Northwestern," Phelps continues. "I think if you can control those two people defensively, then I think you're controlling Northwestern." 
Playing at center for Northwes­tern tonight will be 6-8, 230-pounct senior Paul Schultz. As the NU sixth man last year, Schultz averaged only 
2.7 points and 2.1 rebounds per 
game. 

The Wildcats start a pair of fresh­man at the guard spots. One is 6-7 Chris Berg, who averaged 16.9 points as a senior in high school, and 
see REVENGE, page 6 

DiStanislao's homecoming 
ND women take on Wildcats 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports /iclilor 
The Notre Dame women's basket­hall team, now that it is beginning to t·arn some national recognition after its victory over UCLA last Saturday, faces an evt·n tougher challenge than it did hdore it picked up the big win. It has to prove that it deserves 
to he among the top teams in the country. Tht· first test that Mary DiStanis­lao's squad must pass comes tonight 
when it travels to Evanston, Ill., to take on the Lady Wildcats of Northwestern in its first road game ofthe year. It will not be an easy task for the Irish, although Northwestern has already lost twice this season. Both of those losses came to nationally-ranked teams, including No. I Southern Cal which escaped 
from  Evanston  with  a  67-6S  
overtime  victory  - the  closest  
game USC has had this year.  

-·we don't want to be known as a flash in the pan," says DiStanislao. 
Saint Mary's falls to Hope College, 60-47 
By DAVE WILSON 
.\f}()rts Writer 
Failing to carry over the team spirit and drive they used so d­fectivcly against Franklin College on Saturday, the Saint Mary's basketball team dropped a hard-fought 60-47 contest to the Flying Dutch of Hope College last night at Angela Athletic Facility. The Bdles' record now stands at 2-3 as they prepare for a two-game road trip this weekend. 
"We just weren't mentally on top of our game tonight," said junior center Elaine Suess. "I think we were so fired up from the Franklin game that we just expected more than we actually put out." 
Plagued by turnovers and poor passing, Saint Mary's seemed to have a hard time concentrating on their offensive patterns. The Belles also found foul trouble right from the start, as forwards Cyndy Short and Beth Kreher each committed three fouls after just II minutes ofplay. 
"I think you can't point to just one reason for our losing tonight", com­mented Saint Mary's head coach 
see HOPE, page 5 
"We have to come out ready to play a consistent 40 minutes every game." 
DiStanislao will be looking for the same consistency that her team showed against UCLA when Notre Dame takes the court tonight. After seeing how close the Wildcats came to pulling a major upset against USC, she knows that Anette Lynch's team wiU be looking to bring the Irish back to earth. 
TheWildcats' impressive showing this far has been somewhat of a surprise. Lynch lost five letterwin­ners from last year's I 7 -I 0 team. However, forward Anucha Browne and guards Laura Wiesen and Connie Erickson return from last year's squad to lead the team this year. 
"Anucha Browne is a fine all­around player, but Northwestern plays to its strength, which is the guards," explains DiStanislao. "They'll probably be trapping and pressing a lot. They look to Erickson to score, but it's Wiesen that con­trols the tempo and she can score as well. 
"I think they'll probably usc a 1-3­l half-court trap. Ifwe don't turn the ball over out front, we should be able to punch it inside." 
Those people who Notre Dame 
see TEST, page 6 

Wednesday, December 7, 1983 -page 8 
Irish to face Wildcats, start 'Big Three' week 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer ~-· 
~-----------1-ri_s_h_l-te_m__ ·~·s-----~.--. ~~ 
Hello again, everybody! 
Seeking revenge for last year's NIT loss, Digger Phelps and the Fighting Irish take to the road tonight to dt·dicatc the newly­refurbished McGaw Hall and to take on the Northwestt·rn Wildcats. Following tonight's game, the Irish return home to start the 19H3·84 version of "Big Three" week, playing host to Lehigh Saturday after­noon before preparing for contests with Cornell and perennial patsy Valparaiso. 
However, the way things have been going ti>r the Irish lately, maybe we shouldn't brush off any team. Phelps entered this season worried about outside shooting and rebounding, and he hasn't seen anything lately to calm his fears. Hopefully, the Irish can get their act together in Evanston tonight and come away from that snake pit known as McGaw Hall with a victory. 
" 

The St. Patrick's Day Massacre ... After failing to get an NCAA tournament berth, the Irish entered the NIT tournament last year with an "easy" first-round game against Northwestern at the Rosemont Horizon. After all, what team could beat the Irish on St. Patrick's Day? 
Unfortunately, someone forgot to tell Rich Falk's Wildcats they weren't supposed to win. After trailing by four at halftime, the Wildcats simply outplayed Notre Dame in the second half. Northwestern outrebounded the taller Irish, 43-2S, helping them coast to a 71-S7 win behind Art Aaron's 17 points. It was Northwes­tern's brightest basketball moment in quite some time, but it is also a painful memory that the Irish would like to erase tonight. 
A Word on the Wildcats ...Northwestern has lost three starters from last year's team, but Coach Rich Falk has a pair ofgood players back in Aaron and Andre Goode. Aaron is a 6-8 guard ( d.at:s right ­guard!) who loves to drive to the bucket, as he showed in the Notre Dame game last year when he collected l 7 points and nine rebounds in a forward role. Phelps compares Aaron with Magic Johnson be­cause of his size and ballhandling ability, but don't expect to see Aaron raking in a seven-figure contract or making commercials with Willie Shoemaker after the season's over. 
The 6-10 Goode spearheads a tall Northwestern front line, which includes 6-8 forward Paul Schultz and 7-0 center Colin Murray. This trio will provide another big test for the Irish big men, who had their hands b.Jll all afternoon on Saturday against the front-court players from UCLA. The Irish cannot afford to be dominated on the boards as they were when these two teams met last March. 
Engineer's Notes . . . Since Lehigh's nickname is the "Engineers," I turned to my roommates, Tom and Jim (a pair offine engineers themselves) for a scouting report on Lehigh. Here's what they had to say: 
Believe us, this game won't he on any of the major networks. Our sources tell us that the Engineers have been losing with alarming frequency, starting their season with an 0-3 record, and an 0-2 mark in East Coast Conference circuit play. First-year coach Tom Schneider has been forced to integrate several young players into the lineup, after losing six players from his program to graduation. 
Lehigh will try to maximize the offensive potential shown by sixth-man Mike Androlewicz, who has been averaging H.6 points a game to lead the offense. He will receive some support from fresh­man Mike Polaha, whose current average is eight points a game from his guardposition. Overall, we have calculated that if the Irish play with any kind ofintensity at all, the Engineers should provide little resistance to a huge scoring differential. 
IrishTarget Practice ... As mentioned earlier, the Irish have had their problems finding the mark on their shots. Against UCLA, Notre Dame posted a dismal 34 percent mark from the floor, and only managed to improve that number to 40 percent against St. Francis of Remsen St. Monday night. 
Two bright spots for the Irish have been the steady play of for­wards Tom Sluby andJim Dolan. Sluby has led the team in scoring in three of the first five contests, while Dolan has been consistently good in the early going, usually finding his name listed among the rebounding leaders. Ifthe rest ofthe team can become as consistent as these two, Digger Phelps' job will be a lot easier by mid-season. 
Pick of the Week ... Since we picked the women's swimming team last Wednesday, it seems only fair to give the nod to the male swimmers this week. Coach Dennis Stark's team will he in action this Saturday morning at II a.m., taking on Cleveland State in the Rockne Memorial Pool. 
The veteran Irish mentor lost quite a few fine swimmers from last year's squad, but he ha.'> a wealth of talent returning. Cleveland State is always a tough meet for the Irish, and the guys would appreciate your support Saturday morning. 




