Irish Extra -page 7 


Police battle mobs in Chilean protest 
SANTIAGO, Chile (AP) -Police ning. However, Communists and 
hauled hundreds of demonstrators some youth groups from the alliance in Santiago Thursday during a "Day parties formed marches downtown. of National Protest" against the Communists and other leftist military regime of President groups have called for street Augusto Pinochet. demonstrations to last through Sun­
The dt·monstrators. mostly uni­day, the 10th anniversary of the 
versity students. threw rocks and hloody coup that overthrew :\1arxist shouted "He's going to t:dl, he's President Salvador Allende and going to fall''' 
brought Pinochet to power. 
The police used tear gas, d uhs \1ore than l ,000 marcht•rs con­
ard water cannons against the verged from three directions toward 
demonstrators. Plaza ltalia, a square at the end ofthe 
Scores of people were arrested, main downtown boulevard. Hel· 
including Copper Worker's Union meted police, descending from 
President Rodolfo Segue! and for­huses and running in small groups, mer Senator Patricio Aylwin, both af. used cluhs and tear gas to try to cut filiated with the tive-party them off. Democratic Alliance that called the T~vo police trucks fired water can­protest, according to reporters on nons to disperse them, soaking al­the scene. 
liance president Gabriel Valdes, who ~· itnesst:s said policemen heat was standing nearhy watching. Aylwin as he watched a rally and put \tost of Santiago's -1 million him on a police hus. Reporters saw people stayed home from work. 
many marchers pulled by the neck ~;orne out of protest and others out or the hair onto police buses, fear of violence. The government throV\·n to the ground and stomped dosed schools for tht: rest of the 
on. week. 
The day of protest was the fifth in as many months ofrising unrt·st over Pamphlets were scattered all over an economic recession and Pinoc­the city, some urging people to join het's authoritarian rule. the protest and others suggesting 
The ncm-\1arxist alliance had they turn up the volume of their urg<.:d Chileans to heat cooking pots radios to drown. out the nobc of in their homes for an hour in the eve-clanging pots. 

1 ht• Ol'"t'r\t'r/J UCI.IIl '\u.·mt·~ t'f
Shooting for the top 
11Je \'f) dJeerleading squod tmns to /be sky i11 tmtiCijJttl u''' r~I l'ictOJT durh1g SaturdaJ's jootba/1 game against Purdue..\'quad rnemhers took adt•tmtage r~f7hursday·s SU/111)' U.'etlther to fnoclice a feu· twriol mtmem•ers IJtiore Ibe ojJellin?. kic/.wjfofthe setiS()Jl. 

Photographer's battle 

.1/emhers of !be .\otre /hone u·omen's tennis posing for Sports Information Sert•in•s outside of team seem puzzled about ll'bicb pbotograp!Jer·s /.({Fortune .\hulclll Center '/hursdar wben tbt~J' camera dt•sel"l'es tiJeir ttlterltion. 1be team was caugbttiJe t~re oftm Ohst·n·l·rpboto,l!,rapber. 
Saint Mary's names new members to 1983-84 BQard of Regents 
Special to The Observer ··James E. Jack and l.ydia Haggar director-. ol tile Tn.:as CornnH:rCl' :'\:ovakov. also will join the Board of Bank in lrYing. the a<.h'isory hoard of 
Four new memhers will yom the Regents. Jesuit College Prt-paratory Sd10ol, Saint \1ary's College Bo;trd of Jack. natin: of \ti-.haw;il.;a, ha-. the Cash \1 anagcnll·nt Protei it ioners Regents Oct. 20 wht:n tht: College's heen employed hy Associates Cor­Associ at ion. the l'inancial Ex­governing hody convenes for its tlrst poration of :'\:orth America since <'CUtives Institute.: and thc Colkge of meting of 19H~·H-l. receiving his h<tchclor's degree in Business Advisory Council at the 
Mary Lou \torris Leighton, a accouning from the l'niversit y of l ni\ersity of Tcxas·Arlington. He longtime lt:adcr in the \1ichiana Notre Damt· in 196.~. He current!~ also st·rvt·s on the committtT on community and cultural organiz;t­sen·cs as exccutive vice-presidt·nt finandal relation-. of till' American tions, will he serving her second and chief t1nancial otlicer and is a hnancial Services and i~ a Oll"mher term on the Board of Regents. She memhcr of Associates' hoard ot of the faculty of the N;ttional Install was first elected to the post in 19""c; directors. mcnt Banking ~chool at the l niver· and scrvt:d as chairman of the j<tck, who e;trned his master's of sity ofColorado. hoard's devdopment committet:. husiness administration dcgret: from Nov<tkov graduatt·d with honors 
Leighton, who also served as a Southern :vlcthodist lJniversit\ member of the library huilding com­(SM LJ ), is a mt:mher of the hoard of see REGENTS, page 3 mittee, was instrumental in t<>und­ing the College's \1adeleva Sodt:ty. which supports the annual fund 

Returning students 
through mt:mherships. Tht: 5"7 mil­lion Cushwa-l.dghton l.ihrary on the Saint Mary's campus hears her name. 

face housing problems 
A patron of th arts, Leighton is By CECILIA LUCERO Tht.·se students ;tre still nmsidcrcd
chairman of the hoard and past SeniorStajfReporter regular students of the l/niversity
president of the South Ht:nd Sym· even if they <tttcnd anothc·r unin:r·
phony Orchhestra Association, ~'hilt: many student~ who par­sity overst:as.
director of the Civic Center Founda­ticipate in Notrl· Dame's foreign After candidates for tht: programs
tion, Inc, a charter memher of In­~tudie-. programs emhark on their arc sele<.:ted. noti<.:c is st·nt to ;Ill of
diana Advocates of the Arts, a lik travels with c.:nthusiasm, the long­the otllccs of the l nivnsit~ to \erify
member of the Northern Indiana awaited rt:turn to the l niversity may the status of the students. said
Historical Society and a memher of he h;tmpl·red by prohlems with Ch<trlt·s. "All ol the otfkes. including
the South Bend Art Center. Friends housing. how.. ing. get this list ( ol qudt·nts)
of the Snite \1useum of Art, the \1ic· Confusion still exists whether who arc all rccogntznl <ts regular
hiana Arts and Sciences Council. tht· these studt·nts will actually ren·ivc ~otre Dame ~tudt·nts," she said.
National (;allery of Art, the hrdlY on-campus rc~iJem:y that they were \1cg l.ochar~. a st·nior who par­
Civic Project and OrebestraJ As­supposedly guaranteed. The issue of ticipated in the \okxico program last
social ion ofChicago. overcrowding of dorms adds to the year, t:ncountcred problems with
\-1onsignor John J Egan, director ofthe Oftke of Human Relations and conl·ern of these students ahout housing upon her return to Notre their residence. D<tme. Accordin~ to LO<:hary, she
Ecumenism for tht: archdiocese of Director of Foreign Studies Dr. had <~ntkipated returning to Bret:n­
Chica~o. will begin a three-year lsahcl Charles said that while many Philips as her roommatl" would take
term on the Hoard of Regents. of tht:sc students may not get their care ofthe necessary arrangements.
A recipient of an honorary doctor preterenct: ofdorms, they nevcrtht:· "I left with the understanding that
of humanities degree from Saint less arc guaranteed housing on­would get housing on campus,"
\lary's in 19Hl, Egan previously campus. l.och;tr~ s:tid. According to Charles,
spent l :~ ~Tars at the l niversity of "The\ will h<tn· on-campus students normalh tn· to make ar­
:'\:otrt· l><tme as director of the Cen· housing if that is their preiC:rcnce. rangements with their rectors or
tcr f()r Pa-.toral and Social \1inistn They can. like any other student, roommate~ to return to the dorms
.md spt·"·ial assistant to l nin·rsit~ choosl' to go off campus. (But) they thq had liYed in prior to their
president lkn·rt·nd Theodore \1. arc not as-.urnl that they will be in
llt-shurgh. 
. see DORMS, page 5

Two Rl·sidents of Dall;ts, Texas, the dorms tlw~ want:· Charll~·s;thl 
TheObserver Friday, September 9, 1983 -page 2 


Revive Homecoming 
Homecoming is coming back. The floats, the dances and the revelry will all be a part of the week leading up to the Pitt game Nov. 5. 
The concept sounds excellent, but already the event is losing its association with the football weekend. And I think that's a mistake. 
four days ago, the name of the event was changed to fall festival, a generic-sounding title that reminds me of the annual raffle and bazaar at the local Catholic Church. 
At Monday night's Hall President's Council ( HPC) meeting, the festival was described as a "mini An Tos­tal." In a conversation yesterday with Lisa Salvador, one of the two chairwomen, she called the event "an An Tostal for the faiL" Even HPC chairman Mike Carlin says he is not sure whether having the festival on a home football weekend is a good idea. 
To alter the original focus of the festival would be to lose a territk opportunity. A real Homecoming Week (or some other spirited name ..."Kill Pitt Week' sounds all right) would give this campus the chance to spread its spirit and en­thusiasm over the whole week. not just on friday eve­ning and Saturday morning. 
Chairwomen Lisa Sal­vador and Tina Persson have worked extremely hard since July trying to put to­

gether  this  festivaL  The  
cvenb  that  they  have  
planned  including  

fireworks. a bontlre, tloats, 
spccial T-shirts, a pep rally 
and a possible Hiergarten ­
all sound excHmg. But 
wouldn't they bc that much 
better if the evcms were all 

unmistakeably connected w the idea of heating the 
stutling our of the Pitt Pamhers? Several suggestions come to mind as possible addi­tions to the week: A banner contest in which students would paint orotherwise create banners and hang them out of their dorm windows. The festival people could judge the banners on Thursday, with prizes being awarded to the best banner~ and to the best decorated dorm. Imagine the sight of hundreds of inspiring ban­ners Happing in the breeze on friday and Saturday morning. Some sort of campus cheering session on Wednesday night, a Ia the infamous Campus Scream. It would be a scream with a purpose. Random appearances by parts of the Band, if possible, sav at some dinners during the week. This could be d(~ne if evernmc understands that abuses of the priviledge -such as food fights -would he treated harshh. 
Mark Worscheh 
News Editor 
Inside Friday 


Notre Dame has had a homecoming game in the past. The tradition started to fade in 1978, however. That year a controversy arose in the HPC concerning the election of a homecoming king and queen. The idea of such royalty was termed "regressive" by a number of hall presidents. The women's halls were the most opposed to the idea. Farley Hall President Michelle Kel­lv called the idea "childish and degrading." 
' While some halls boycotted the election, some halls nominated joke candidates. Nominees in this group in­cluded the Zahm moose mascot. the Holy Cross hog, a roach from Badin and Far­ley's janitor. 
Homecoming wt:nt on as schedukd. though. com­plete with mums, movies, a "find the Pitt Pantht:>r" con­test. a pep rally, a fireworks display, a dance and a con­cert appearance hv Neil Young. In 1979, the homecoming game was against CSC on the Saturday het(>re Fall Break, and inter­est waned markedly. Bv 19Ho, this ··rradition:. wU:-; dead. 
But there is no reason whv it cannot be revived, and revived in a bigger way tha~ it ever was. So much talk this year has been cen­tered on the spirit ofTexas A&M and its "Twelfth Man" tradition. If vou have not heard, Coach Jackie Sherrill was so impr~ssed with the spirit of the school that he formed a kickoff team out of student volunteers. I'd bet the Irish could show even more spirit if given the chance. 
When I see the enthusiasm at the pep rallies and the dedication ofstudents who stand on the benches cheer­ing from the kickoff to the tlnal gun, I see a tremendous source that remains untapped, waiting to be given the opportunity to show its stuff. 
It is up to the organizers of Homecoming (or whatever it will be called) to provide the framework t<>r such a display. The timing is right; the opponent is tough. The students should be given the chance ro show that their spirit can he turned on before Friday at 
~p.m. 


_The_Obs.er.Y:er~ 
1983 

Eucharistic Ministry Ci!II)PUS 
Workshops
m1n1stry

Colll{m.</1WI/ !:dIIIII' \i,1n IIl-ah 
( utHfJu.\t r u Jll. ts.•.-JsftiiJ f ~ut.~ulnt· I .1 <.nu' 
& ~"'·Ill (l ll.1ra 7 l'/JI'St•/1 r•r 111 \\ tlh;tlll'
"'"' \etn hlr/ur. _letlll.1rnng!"n ("/II' /til/PI' Dan \ll( ullnugh 
'f"""'-' CtJfll' !·drlw \ll~e "ulln ;m l:diiiJ/'1(//S I /1}'1•111 'I om 'm;lll 
leal/Ires I r/1'1111/ \\;In lkah 
\IJ !Jill' l'tltlcJI 

For returning ministers: 
.ttl ilt'.'lf.!lt 1\oh ..,lol.l Lucian 
(,II<'.' I IJ!{It'ctr.:IIH't'S John ( "'"' II h 
Tuesday, Sept. 13, 9:30 PM 
'2.{.110!1. I 1l11n~ Ill need :o l'or,chc 111 'll';HI 1 .\d:1m'. I\\ o l.argt· 1'1ua' '' llh 
Sacred Heart Church 
l'eppt·ronl &. .,,lll,,lgt· &. \lt~,hroofll'. 
I l.l,l\ l'. lll'ardl'd lloh \!.111. \1.1)!)-:ll. \l.u1· 
lll'f'. Allrnl '-llt"lll\\old I rn 'Jllrll. .II 
ll'a'c ). -'\otrump 

For first-time ministers: 
Thursday, Sept. 15, 7:30PM 
Sacred Heart Church 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fr1day except durrng exam and vacat1on per1ods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and 
Participation in one of these
Sarnt Marys College Su~scrrptrons 11ay be purchased for $30 per year t$ 15 pe 1 se11ester) by wr1trng The Ob­
workshops is mandatory if you
server, P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. In­diana 46556 
intend to be a eucharistic
The Observer IS a member of the Assoc1ated Press All reproduct1on r1ghts are reserved 
minister this year! 
. ··--. -·· .. -.. -·----... ~--....... _.; ···-. ..:._._· -·-....., .........,... ..... ---__ .,;. .... . 
The Observer F~iday, September 9, 1983-page 3 
·­

Women graduate students offered counseling service 
By PATRICIA CARROLL 
NeuosStaff 
"Women helping women," is the 
goal which Susan Streihe hopes to 
see realized in this first year of Notre 
Dame Graduate Women's Support 
Group ( GWSB ). 
Responding to what she saw as a 
neglected need for psychological 
support and encouragement of the 
University's graduate women, 
Streibe, a clinical psychologist for 
Notre Dame's Counseling and Psy­
chological Services Center, has or· 
ganized a counseling service aimed 
specifically at meeting the needs and 
concerns ofthis minority. 
Much of the emphasis of the Uni­

versity's counseling and psychologi­
cal services has been on its 
undergraduate population and al-. 
though undergraduates make up the 
majority of the student body a 
St. Michael's laundry alters pick-up days 
By SUSAN AYLWARD 
News Staff 
St. Michael's Laundry, which 

services nearly 4,500 students and 
faculty weekly, has altered the rota­
tion schedule for pick-up from the 
men's dormitories this year. 
The Hall President's Council revised the schedule in response to student requests for a more efficient and fair method of laundry pick-up. Within a five year period each dorm will have had their scheduled day of retrieval fall on each of the five weekdays. 
According to Norm Muller. Direc­tor of the laundry service, "Last year about 89 percent ofthe overcharges (the surpassing of the student laundry limit) were for !50 or less." This year the overcharge limit was raised to that S50 level so over­charging will he at a minimum and the same, services will he offered without the additional charge. 
An optional laundry plan for males has not yet been devised, however. Nor is a laundry service for women students likely in the near future, according to Muller. St. Michael's docs wash women's clothing on a "cash and carry" basis, but the facility is not properly equipped to wash delicate materials. 
Last semester a new com­puterized washing machine~owas in­stalled to handle the 12,000 lhs. of laundry processed each day and now that the staffhas had a chance to adjust to the new equipment the St. Michael's laundry is ready to con­tinue serving the Notre Dame com­munity. 
• • • Regents 
continuedfrom page 1 
from Saint Mary's in 1972 and 
received her master's degree in 
American government from the Uni­
versity of Norre Dame in 1976. 
A 1968 graduate of Crsuline 

Academy in Dallas, Novakov 
returned to her high school alma 
mater as a teacher in August, 1972. 
She taught American government, 
sociology and urhan studies until 
May, 1974, when she took a two­
year leave ofabsence to work on her 
master's. · 
The Saint \1ary's College Board of Regents is comprised of 30 mem­bers. Sister Mary jane Honan serves as chairman, jerry Hammes is vice chairman, Sister M. Rose Anne Schultz is secretary, and Robert J. Welsh is treasurer. 
definite need for programs targeted at graduate student's concerns does exist. Graduate women, especially, are easily isolated in an institution whose coeducation is still relativelv recent. Certain departments have few women involved in graduate work and those few can sutTer feelin,gs of divison. inadequacy, and confusion. 
After discussion with different department heads, campus ad­ministrators, and grad students, Streihe, who holds a Ph. D. in psycho­logy, decided to organize a group in which graduate women can connect with one another to share problems, interests, ideas and concerns. After two years of counseling at Notre Dame. Streihe has found that the concerns and needs of the graduate women whom she has encountered have been strikingly similar and thus a group type ofcounseling would he ideal in estahlishing, or reestablish­ing, a sense of suppport, trust and strength. 
"The philosophy behind counsel­ing and advising women is to give them a sense of power and respon­sihility," says Streihe; a sense which aids in counteracting the pressures 
and  anger  which  the  traditional meetings of the group on  
stereotype  or  cultural  role  has evenings from  
caused,  and  continues  to  cause,  
women today.  

The need to reaffirm power and responsibility is retlected in the or­ganizational structure ofthe GWSG. 
The women involved will decide upon the agenda and format them­selves. Ifa need for outside speakers or information is felt, then that need will he met. Ifa preference for group 
Juniors Juniors 
Do you want to be the chairperson for Junior Parents Weekend? 
Applications are available in the Student Activities Office now 
Applications must be returned no later than Wednesday, September 14 


discussion or qut.·stioning is expressed. tht.·n the met.'tings can he held accordingly. Thus. those attending will define what tht.· group is and what tht.·v want from it. The main thrust of the service is to provide counseling and a chance to share and compare experiences and ideas. 
"We have many high at.·hit.',·ers among our women:· notes Streihe, who suspects that the pressing issues will include the competitive pressures of an occupation, the balance of career and marriage. and the personal pressures of maintain­ing relationships. 

So far, the Counseling and Psy~.:ho­logical Services Center has funded what puhlicity has heen t·ntaikd in the t(>rmation of the support group, such as tlyers sent to off-campus townhouses, the library, the graduate student union, and 'arious academic departments. Streiht.· does not predict many rt:lated expenses, hut those that occur will he met hy the psychological st.·n·ices center. 
Streihe, with jane Pitz, the rector of the student townhouses who has heen greatly involved in ;..;mre Dame's campus minisrty, will hegin 
\1onday 
6:1 S to H:OO in the Wilson-Commons (;raduate Student Center on Bulla Hoad. Strcihc, who has already received several phone calls regarding the group, is eager to see and work with the women who attend, and hopes that a commit­ment to the group will quickly enable those involved to build a feeling of constancy, trust, and sup­port_ 
Juniors 


Philippines president cries over slain rival 
:\IANIIA, Philippim·s ( AP) 

Prt.·sident h·rdinand E. \1an:os said 
Thursday he shed tears f(>r his ass<ts­
sinated rival, Benigno Aquino. and 
called th~ killing a "national shamt'... 
Marcos· wile, Imelda. in a separate 
interview. said she had nothing to . gain from the death of Aquino and added she was considering giving up 
her vast official powers. 

Both denied governmeat involve­
ment in the Aug. 21 assassination 
and said they h;td wantt.·d to attt·nd 
Aquino's funeral. Aquino family 
members had said they wouldn't he 
welcome. 

.\htr<..·os, in an interview with The 
Associated Press and VISitmg 
.Japanese newspapt.·r editors. said tht· 
killing of Aquino ;ts he arrived homt' 
from three years' sdt-exilt: in tht· 
l"nited Statt:s was a "national 
shame." 

"I slwd tears tl.>r him, and every 
Filipino should have.·· said \tarcos. 

\lan:os acknowledged for the t1rst time that ht.· has ht-cn ill in recent weeks. although not seriou:-.ly ;ts had htTn rumored. lie said ht.· had recovert'd ;md lw appeared to ht.· in good health during the interview. 
\Irs. Marcos. in ;tlt.·ss-form;~l inter­,·icw in a '\1alacanang Palat.'t' gues­thouse, said she might step down from public oftice. 
"I am considering not running nt·xt yetr for my dccted position," Mrs. Marcos said. Sht.· s;~id she wants to give up all governmt:nt posts to work with the "privatt' sector" hack­ing Marcos· gon~rnmenl. 
"It's unfair. And how will I ht· henefited hy it, to han· sonlt"holh kilkd'" she asked 


Triangle Drafting Supply 
1021 N. Main Street Mshawaka, IN 259-2459 
M-F 8:00 till 5:30 

a Sat. 9 am till12:00 
I 
>oz 

~ Edison
<~~>o 

<1>3~ &..............~.........~~~ 
(!)<II 
en
Angela Blvd. 
:.#~I:~H-1:. ~ 

XEROX 2080 Service Jefferson Ave. Copies Made any size-Reductions-Enlaroemenh, 1• Portfolio Reductions ·Complete line of drafting supplies Trian9 
N.D. and St. Mary's Student Discounts Draft~ng
Supply 


Attention Seniors!!! Attention Seniors!!! 
SeniorPortrait Sign-ups Sept. 12 -15, 4:30·6:30 North and South Dining HaUs 0-,c Students caD Patty at 3097 orJane at 6849 
Please pay by Check or bring Exact Change .... 
Eating Disorders 

• Anorexia Nervosa slruclured lherapl 

evening, beginning 
Sepl. 27 on lhe 
~olre Dame Campus 
Umited Enrollment 
Registration doses 
Sept .22 

For Further information Contact: An illness that makes Dan R~bkki. Ps)·. n. . • •t .239-7336
p s .. · ve, vom1 or p~.~~~e becau~"' '·~"" Counseling· Psycho;ogical S!"rvices Center 
think the·. --..~ 


TheObserver Friday, September 9, 1983-page 4 

Hickory Smoked Ribs Fried Chicken Deliciously Thick Pizza 
1835LWE, South Bend, ln. Phone: 288-8240 
St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet Granger, ln. Phone: 277-3143 


WHITE SOX='""'>~~~ vs. ANGELS 
Frjday Night, Sept. 9 
$15 Ticket includes: bus ride game ticket 

rj 
.. ;.1 refreshments 
...,
.,
1 

H Tickets Available At S.U. Record Store 
~ 
:;;:: 

GetTRE NEW YORK TIMES 
delivered to your dorm or office 
for just 35c per day and $2.50 on Sunday 
For further information call Mike Stuart at 283-8620 
e\e'""
""ot'C'
\t\ft'' 


McCarthy's EST.1983 
"Saturday Morning Confusion" 
sept 10 ~·~e 
Draft Beer 
NO Ave.
7:00 ...-10' 8:00am -20' 
~~ 

9:00aa·30' ..J.$'+-e 
10:00·-.40' ~ """" \ .,.
11:oo••-so• o~ etb 

.,..~ -.0
High Nooa • 61' ~,,,. <c,~~'" 
Hill St. 
Noonon-75' 
••cP ~e
(11tiUcbeap) 

*McCarthy's 
Uncle VInnie ny•:"Drlak early aad Drlak oftea" 
410N.HW 
Frl Sat tW 2 •• 
Buy a Rib Tip &Chicken Dinner at Regular Price and get the Second at 1f2 Price Must Remit Coupon 
Complete Carry Out-Phone Ahead 
Not valid in combination with other coupons No cash value. or specials Expires Sept. 30, 1983. 
• 
• 
d 
Soviets to turn over plane debris: U .S./Kremlin relations stagnant 
Associated Prf'ss 
Japan ~ays the Soviets have found debri~ from the downeo South Korean airliner and will turn the material over, hut there was no sign Thursday of any other cooperation between the Kremlin and the na­tions ano institutions outraged O\'t'r the Soviet attack. 
An angry Secretary of State George P. Shultz emerged from a contentious meeting with Andrei A. Gromyko in Madrid and called the Soviet foreign minister's explana­tion of the attack "preposterous" and totally unacceptable. 
<iromyko told Shultz the United States had staged a "gross provoca­tion" hy sending the South Korean jumho jet into Soviet airspace and calico the act a "crimina! deed," according to the Soviet news agency Tass. 
President Reagan ordered all U.S. oft1ces of the Aeroflot to be closed and demanded that all American air carriers sever ties with the Soviet airline, the world's largest. 
Aerotlot has heen hanned from landing in the United States since 1981, and its U.S. oftkes i':J Washing­
"Papa & Mama Do The Cooking" 
Francesco's Famiglia 277-6155 Restaurant 277-6156 
featuring 
FOUR SEASONS PIZZA 
The Original Southern Recipe Lasagna, Home-made Spaghetti, Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana All Varieties of Sandwiches 
(Francesco was chejfor Holy Cross Fathersfor 21 yrs.) 
1636 N. Ironwood 
t-------·'WE DELIVER"-------1 
..____ Proprietor: Francesco Catanzariti ___-.~ 
If you are an avid fan 
of THE FAR SIDE cartoons, you'll have to have Gary Larson's newest collection ... 
And if youmissed his first~ best seller, you'd better be sure you have 
Order now if youlove humor that starts from and remains firmlyfooted in le1=t 
f~e,d! 

ton and New York hook only con· nections out of Montreal and other foreign cities. 
Earlier, Reagan announced limited sanctions on cultural ex­changes and transportation agree­ments. 
At the United Nations, A U.S.-hacked draft resolution was in­troduced in the U.N. Security Coun­cil deploring the downing ofa South Korean airliner and calling for a full 
U.N. investigation, but not explicitly condemning the Soviet Union. 
Soviet diplomats, speaking privately, said their delegation would veto it. 
British Airways cancelled its tlights to Moscow, and European pilots' associations joined in a 60­day hoycott to protest the missile at­tack that claimed the lives of 269 people. The Soviets say the plane, which flew through Soviet air space, was on a spy mission for the United States -a charge the United States denies. 
The pilots, from France, Italy, Nor­way and Denmark, were ahead of their gove t rnments in taking con­crete measures against the Soviet Union. NATO ministers meeting in 

r-------------
Piease send me: 
___ copies of The Far Side at $3.95 each. ____ copies o1' Beyond The Far Side at $3.95 each. Total amount enclosed 
anclude $1 for postage and handlmg per book ordered.J 
Mail to Far Side Books C/o The Observer · li400 Jonnson onve Fairway. t-:an 66205 Make checks payable to Universal Press Syndicate 
0 t:hed. 0 Money Q,de-r 0 VISA 
0 Ma,t.-•Cafd 
HarM ------------
Addrtu 
{>ty ____ 
Stolt _____Z>p ---­
( rrd1t <ord :1 
Moo;tf'r(c. d :nrPrbnnil a: 
Madrid were still considering how to punish the Soviets. 
The U.S. State Department cau­tioned Americans against going to the Soviet Union because the airline protests could seriously disrupt travel. 
In Tokyo, Soviet Ambassador Vlaoimir Pavlov, in a meeting at the foreign Ministry, said the Soviets would turn over to Japan recovered materials ano documents from the crasheo airliner, Japanese officials said. 
They said he also told them his government will report on its search operations off the tiny Soviet island ofMoneron. 
It appeared that the reason the plane's debris was to be turned over toJapan is the absence ofdiplomatic relations between South Korea and the Soviet Union. Seoul has repor­tedly asked Tokyo to represent it's interests in the affair. 
The Soviets have not pinpointed the crash site yet, Pavlov reportedly said, but they found fragments in four areas near Moneron. 
There were strong indications that the Soviet refusal to offer an ac­count that satisfies the United States was leading to a further deteriora­tion in relations between Moscow and Washington. 
In Madrid, a senior State Depart­ment official said Shultz probably would cancel a previously scheduled meeting with Gromyko in New York later this month. 
Gromyko said he would have no­thing to say about his meeting with Shultz for the time being. 
The United States has demanded an apology, restitution for the vic· tims' families, and assurances that such an attack will not occur again. 

Navy faces first clash in Lebanon 
BEIRUT, Lebanon ( AP) -The 

U.S. Navy unleashed its firepower in Lebanon for the first time Thursday, destroying a Druse militia battery that shelled Beirut airport while two Marine generals were inspecting Marine positions. 
No casualties were reported at the airport, where four Marines have been killed and 28 wounded since late lasf month. But police said 52 Lebanese were killed and 114 wounded in fierce Christian-Druse fighting in the mountains overlook­ing the airport. 
The Druse, in a statement issued hy their Progessive Socialist Party, claimed lebanese troops and Chris· tian Phalange militiamen burned down a Druse religious shrine in Ebey, 7 miles southeast of Beirut and "ma..'isacred" 40 ·men, women and children who had taken refuge there. 
There was no independent con· firmation of the claim, the latest in a series of reports of massacres by both Christians and the Syrian­hacked Druse since Israeli troops pulled out of the mountains Sunday. Israelis redeployed its troops to safer positions. 
On Wednesday, U.S. and French jet tighter~ roared over Lebanon for the first time in a show offorce after ~Iarine and French positions in West Beirut were ~helled. One :'vtarine was wounded and at kast two French soldiers were killed. ln­
. t(mned sources said a French soldier who was \vounded later <.lied. 
The 1.200 \larines ashore are part of a 5,-lOO multinational peacekeep­ing f(lrcc that also includes French. Italian and British troops. They han· been in Lebanon since br:tel troops forced' the evacuation of thousands of Palestine I.iheration Organization fighters from lkirut last summcr. 
The emborro~sment of morr.1ng face 


., •.,. r • .----------.-...:11"'.-.._.... _ · -•·H ~ ._ • ,. .., -• .... • .. 9 11" 't • • • ., r • • • • ....
.. • • ,_ • ._ ­
The Observer Friday, September 9, 1983 -page 5 




Nicaraguan rebel planes · attack airport, killing 
\1ANAGllA. Nicaragua (AP) -Agency (CIA), and President Reagan 
Two low-tlying planes that the earlier this year called them 
government said were piloted hy "freedom fighters." 
rebel exiles rocketed :\1 anagua But, so far as is known, the smaller 
Thursday, destroying part of the air­Democratic Revolutionary Alliance 
port's main terminal building and based in Costa Rica, has received no 
wounding three soldiers. officials help from the t;nited States. It is led 
said. by Eden Pastora, a hero of the 19""<) 
Officials of Nicaragua's Marxist revolution that placed the San­
government said one of the planes dinistas in power, and its members 
fired rockets near the home of the are mostly disenchanted Sandinistas. 
foreign minister. Deputy Interior 
Minister Luis Carrion said one plane. Carrion said one plane tired two 
a propeller-driven Cessna 402, was rockets at the home of Foreign Min­
shot down at the airport hy anti­ister Miguel d'Escoto. in Managua's 
aircraft guns. killing the two men on southwest district of \'illatontana, 
board. He said the other plane but missed. "One didn't explode and 
escaped. the other hit a tree," he said. He said 
Although the attack was blamed the plane fl~d southward towards 
on ami-government forces, neither Costa Rica. 
ofthe two rebel groups -one based 
in Costa Rica and the other in Hon­D'Escoto, a Roman Catholic 
duras -claimed responsibility. priest, was in Panama City, attending 
Elsewhere in Central America, a conference of the Contadora 
Defense Secretary Caspar Weinber­group -made up hy Mexico, 
ger inspected U.S. military exercises Colombia, Venezuela and Panama­
in neighboring Honduras, and there trying to negotiate peace in Central 
/louse in protc>sl f~/lbe .'wriel dolt'IIIJig oj t1 .\nulb 
was heavy fighting in El Salvador be­America. This was the group's eighth 
1\."orean jetliner /tis/ lt'eek. (See rdoted slor)' n11 
twe~n government troops and guer­meeting since January, so far with­
page 1) 

rillas. out success. Carrion said the Cessna 402 crashed at the base of the airport 




I-----------------------------------,
control tower. He added that tlight 
I

plans and other documents found with the dead pilots indicated the I I two planes had taken otffrom Tobias Bolanos airport, seven miles west of San jose, the Costa Rican capital. 
There was no immt.·diate com· 
I otreDame 1
ment about the attack from Costa 
Rican authorities, who claim that 
their country -which has no army 
-wants to remain neutral in the 
Nicaraguan conflict. 
Democratic Revolutionary front 

I The nrricanes ! 
rebels, based in Honduras, have 
I I
heen receiving money and training 
from the Central Intelligence 

I create a storm. 1 
• Dorms
• • I I 
continuedfrom page 1 
departure overseas. 
I EASTERN'S CLASSIC I 
Lochary said that during the semester in Mexico, she wa..s in· formed that she would not he living 
I COLLEGE FOOT-BAGL'WEEKEND-I on campus in the upcoming school year. She said the reason for this was t that she was one ofseveral students 
I ONLY $272 to $332-I 
with a leave of absence status. 
According to Lochary, however. she 

I INCLUDING AIRFARE. I
had not declared herself on leave of 
absence. 
I Now you can spend time in two are special activities planned for you by I
DuLac states that students on 
leave of absence cannot he con· I great places at the same time. your Alun1ni Association and the 1 
sidered regular students of the l :ni­
I For only $272-$3 32 per person~·, N1iami-Dade Department of Tourism. 1
vcrsity, and therefore are not 
guaranteed housing on campus. I you can spend four days and three And to help you get around, we've 1 
These -.tudents also cannot receive 
t(>r thev I nights in one of 12 quality hotels in included a General Rent-A-Car 1
academic crt.·dit courses 
take in other schools. l:arned <.-redit-. 1 beautiful sun-filled Greater Mian1i and subcompact for three days.·:· I 
can only he accepted by Notrt.· 
1 the Beaches. And you can watch Notre For more information, call your
Dame: under "special consideration" 
to he arranged with the deans of the 1 Dame take on the University of Mian1i Accredited Travel .c<\.gent, or Eastern at I 
colleges. according to Charles. 
1 at Mimni's Orange Bowl. Eastern also 639-6611 in Indianapolis. 1 
Charles s~1id that last year's 
I offers e)ther great low prices from all I1
\texico Program had bt.·en ditfc:rt.·nt from previous ~Tars. "Only two stu­
over the U.S. for Notre Dame alumni ''Prices arc effective from Chicago or Indianapolis for 
dents "\.VCrc: considc:red a part of the I 
and for students' families. travel to Miami 9/16-2 3/83 and return from Miami lJ/21-I
regular (school) vear because they 
I B 1 · h h' · 30/83 only. A minimum three-night stay is required. I
had registered for our former 
ecause a ong Wlt t lS tnp to Extra nights available at additional cost. Reservations 
program 
I Miami there's a ticket to the game at the must be made at time of purchase. Prices are per person, I 
Tht· \texico Mudents were sent to I Orange Bo\vl starting at 9 p.m. on double occupancy, at selected hotels subject to avail-I lhno Americana. said Charles. with­ability; deposit requirements and cancellation penalties out agreeme•1t with the \lt:xicm I Saturday, Septen1ber 24th. apply. Meals. gratuities, taxes arc not included. Prices I 
uniYerstt\ to tr:mslt'r the one-\Tar
. . I And when you're not may change without nl\ticc. I program there. Technically. the re"t -:-Gas. Collision Damage Waiver of 51.5G of the students on the .\texico I warehing t he game, vou can be Jailv. insurance. and dror-off fees. if 1 program werc on a lea\·c ofabscnce. 
I soaking up the sun, or fishing applicable, not included. Rental car is sub-I 
Lochary said that the prohkms or sailing or enJ'oying Miami's compact and is included for three 24-hour I with on-campus residency ··put a 
I periods only. Minimum rental age is 2l. cloud over my last few weeks in I great restaurants. Plus, there 1)1983 Eastern Air Lines, Inc. I 
Fiery protest 
A dernonstrator u:ielding o hall hoi heols a hur­ning ejfigy ofSm•iet leader}·uri.·lntlmpot• during a demonstmtion WednesdliJ' inji·ont f~/lbe \fbile 
.\texico. I was rcally disappointed in how the Administration handled 
I I
( thc situation)." 
1 

Charles said that whilt• a ft:w stu· 
EASTERN I dents haYe prohkms due to "a misunderstanding about the status 
I America's favorite waytofly' J 
of the program,·· such occurences "nrdy happen... 

L---------------------------------~­
View~_o_i_n_t_________
F-rid-ay_,s_ep-te-mb-er-9,-19-83_-_p_ag_e6 
Reforming intercollegiate athletics 
Editor's note: This is the second ofa two-part series concerning the role ofathletics in the college erwironment 
I he hi!-t~est nmtlkt in the present system of intercollegiate athletics is the diswrtion ,_~f the role the university is supposed to play m 
Mike Skelly 

Back again 
our society. Instead of presenting itself as an institution for the development of the mind, universities are all too often seen as playgrounds for athletic contests. 
This distortion has heen particularly shame­ful since it has damaged the disadvantaged 
sectors of society. As Henry Edwards com­mented. "The life circumstances of young blacks and the aspirations of student-athletes make th<:.'se students especially vulnerable to victimization." 

Major college athletics has sold far too many young people the idea that the univer­sity is a training ground for bigger and better things in tht.· professional sports world. For the vast majority of athletes this is simply not the case. Instead of telling minority students that the way up is through sound study in high school, universities tell them that the way up is through a good jump shot. Granted many 
may make it into college and even graduate, but countless others are left behind with no more saleable skills than a good jumper. 
Even Notre Dame, whose athletic programs 

have ht.·en highly praised. has reinforced this 
jump shot ethos. More than one third of the University's aid to minorities goes to athletic grant-in-aids. It is certainly admirable that the Lniversity is helping these minority student· athletes, hut it seems that the way to an N.O. education tor minorities is disproportionately tilted towards participation in athletics. 
To reform intercollegiate athletics, a few changes are in order. First of all, athletic scholarships should he severely curtailed. The resources could he channeled toward reward­
ing high school students with talents and abilities more reflective of a university's ideals. 
Athletics should be less of a revenue generating device. The richest country in the world should be able to fund its institutions of 
higher education without a systt·m which is inconsistent with the ideal of the university at best, and highly exploitative, at worst. 1-ur­
thermore, our universities should he able to sell a product to alumni which is more consis­
tent with the ideals ofhigher education than a winning football team. 
Finally the LJniversity should seriously reconsider its current drive to endow Notre 
Dame athletic programs. Since the Univer­sity's donor base is limited. the use of these 
resources to endow athletics constitutes a serious misallocation of funds. Notre Oame 
has a myriad of more worthy causes for fundraising. 

Finding time for studies and activities 
Many students attended the Activities 1\; ight at Stepan Center Monday. The overwhelming variety ofsocial, service, academic and recrca· tiona! organizations available to Notre Dame students is impressive, to say tht· Jea,t. After being introduced to these myriad activittcs, l r<:turned to nl\' room and was ruddY 
Maura Mandyck 
Focal Point 
reminded ofanother activity that demands m' time -the pursuit of t:ducation. I gloomily surveyed the stack of hooks on my desk and knew with a grim t·ertainty that the stack would only increase with time. The meager twenty four hours a day allotted to mankind arc: hopclessh· inadequate. 
After being informed at freshman orienta· tion that we should expect to dt·vote tift) hours a week to study, a small group of nen· ous freshmen gathered to discuss the 
problem. We surmised that if classes end at approximately ) o'clock. we should study wuhout ceasing to eat dinner, visit the bathroom or speak to our fellow classmates. 
journeying to the lihrary· would certainly' cut down on distractions hut the precious minutes that the trip would require could he better spent. We devised an elaborate scheme for reading in the shower, pausing e\·el)' 6.4 seconds to take a bite offood. Learning to type with our toes would fret· our hands to l'ompute math problems. Unfortunately, man~ acttvttles. such as lener-writing. shoelace-tying and wrist watch winding had to he completely eliminated. We also won­dered what to do when we lacked enough material to spend fifty hours studying. Perhaps memorizing lf'ar and Peace, conjugating in triplicate eve!)· verb in the Latin language or counting to intlnity are worthwhile pursuits. 
Later in the week. we were assured that fifty hours a week is considered somewhat ex· cc:;si\·e by even the most devoted scholar and we went hack to previous!~ forbidden ac· tivities. However, the revised schedule still left scant time to pursue all the interesting ac­tivities. 
At Stepan Center. I had with overzealous abandon committed myself to no less than five 

groups. I also work in the food sales in our dorm and had hoped to occasionally indulge the social side of my personality. Obviously there is just not enough time. I suspect many students are in the same overburdened boat. 
A ~rade school t(·acher once solemnly in­formed me that time is the most pret·ious commodity, Each golden hour set with sixty diamond minutes. J was skeptical. She was ot rather advanced age, though. and I certainly understood why she telt that way. Hut surdy I had all the timt· in the world. I dicovercd in high school that this was simply not the case. The problem has intensified in my flrst weel,;s of college. Those who are afflicted with the same burning desire to be involved in every­thing will understand this situation. 
Hut what is one to do? Obviously involve· ment is a good and commendable thing. Rather, it is overinvolvement which causes premature graying and the tendency to burst into tears at the least provocation. It is helpful to remember that, to a certain extent, we do have all the time in the world. We are young and have possibly several years of college ahead of us. What can't he accomplished this year may he accomplished th<hnext. 
Harsh words and soft actions 
The American response to the shoming down of a Korean passenger jet hy the USSR can only he termed as one ofstrong language, hut few deeds. Many people felt that we should do something to seriously punish the 
RandyFahs 

Friday analysis 
Soviets f(>r their murderous attack. The main prohkm with such a response is that there is little that we could do ro harm the USSR (short of starting World War Ill) that would have per<--civahlc effects. 
Tlw Lhm:ning of an unarmt:d civilian jet, even though it strayed over Soviet airspace, is cle~trly an act of war ~md a violation ofinterna· tiona( law. As ahhon:nt as the unnct-csssary death of 269 people is, it is still not worth reducing the earth to a smoldering cinder in~~ thermonuclear war. As far as the violation of intt.·rnationallaw is concerned, there is no in· tc:rnational court that could ent<>rce a guilty sentcnce. And with thc Soviet veto power in the Security Council, even the Lnited Nations l·an han· littlc ctfcct ht.·sides verbal con· dt·mnation and a decrcase in Kussian prestige: 
Another possible alternative would he t< put the squeeze on the USSR economically through the usc of sannions. In the past, whe:lt and gas pipeline equipment have heen restricted from export to the Soviet l inion. 
Unfortunately, these embargoes harmed lJS commerce and the commodities in question were supplied by other nations. 
In the case of wheat, the USSR purchased what it needed from Canada, Australia, and Ar· gentina. The American farmer suffered, hut the greatest costs were horn by the people of India and Pakistan who were forced to pay higher grain prices due to the increased demand caused by the Russian intrusion into the market. 
Canada and Australia are two of our closest 
allies. It was because of their actions that the 
grain sanctions failed. This points out that the 
international system is one which involves 
many complex interdependencies. It can no 
longer ht· dominated by either one of the 
world's two superpowers. or nations in their 
respective blocs. 
ror sanctions of any type to be effective against the Soviet Lnion, they must he respected by the p10dcers ofthe specific com· modity. Some opportunistic nations can dt·stroy the embargo and receive a financial windfall at tht.· same time. In this particular cast:. the satll'tion which has the greatest likelihood of holding together did not come from a group of nations, hut rather from the 
International l;ederation of Airline Pilots' As· 
sociations which called for a 60 day han on 
tlights to Moscow. 
The Reagan Administration is pushing for­
ward with the talks to restrict medium range 

nuclear weapons in Europe. In the light of what has happened, this may seem odd. Even though the negotiations will take place in a cooler diplomatic atmosphere, neither side wants to see them end for fear that US-USSR relations might destabilize. Such an occur­rence could have the gravest possible conse­
quences. 
On the domestic front, the destruction of 
the jet gives Congressional hawks more am­munition as they attempt to get the MX missile into production. 
Selecting and choosing among many op­tions is an art. Develop this art until you can decide with relative ease that it is unwise to join the karate club and the Spanish club, promise to tutor the children of South Uend. sing in a drama production and carl)· I H credit hours as well. Rather, narrow your interests to include the organizations most tmportant to you. 
In order to maintain at least a semblance of sanity. do a tCw things very well instead of many things in a mediocn· manner. Always remember that time devoted to reading an un­required novel. strolling around the lake or seeing a movie purely for entertainment's sake is not necessarily wasted time. Don't hesitate to re-evaluate if necessary. 
In a society and a university that prizes the active individual. it is essential that we remember that sometimes our first obligation is to ourselves. Ifwe are too busy to enjoy the activiucs. then the point is lost. Get involved, hut in moderation. Now ifyou will excuse me. I'm late for a meeting. 
Moura Mandyck is a freshman from Atlanta, Georgia. She intends to enter The College ofArts and Letters 
In short, though the attack on the jet is met with the strongest possible protests, there is little that can be done to punish a nation ofthe 
superpower status and still maintain peace. While this may seem frustrating, it demonstrates that the international system is one that is largely anarchic. It also shows that 
each nation is So conscious ofits power that a single international incident is not worth set­ting off a nuclear war. 

Department Managers 
Ihe_--=-.Qbsenrer=====!?r!!~:~~e~.~~~~ ......._
.. David Dziedzic 
/lox Q, Nf.•tre /Jame. II\' -16556 ( 21 <)) ..!39-5303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
The Ohsert•er is the mdcpcndcnt newspaper published by the students of the Uni· Executive Editor_ .......... _..... Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas n·rsitv of Notre l>amt· du Lac and Saint :\tar•'s College. II does not nn·essarily reflect News Editor .... ............. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen tht: polines of tht~ admimstrat1on of either institution. Tht.· news is reported as a<­News Editor .... .............. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzanne La Croix curatdy and as ohjn·tivcl\ as .possible l nsigncd editorials represent the opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor . ......... ,~Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto majority of the Editorial Board. Comrnentarics.lettcrs. and the Inside: Column present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamiltog 
SyslPm Manage.· ............... Kevin Williams 
the views oftheir authors. Column span· 1s availahlc to all mt·mhers ofthe community. Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower an1l the fret· cxprt·ssion of varving opinions on campus. through lctters. is cnnmragcd. Sports l:'ditor .. ............................ \tichad Sulli\'an 
•·ounded November J, 1966 

, 


'Spoilermakers' look to ruin another ND year 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
Tomorrow's matchup between Notre 
Dame and Purdue features two teams out to 
prove something after two straight seasons 
of mediocrity and losing records. 
Tomorrow's matchup also features a Purdue quarterback and a Notre Dame secondary that don't have to prove much. Based on their personal efforts and past ac­complishments, anyway, that is true. llnfor­tunately, Campbell and the Notre Dame secondary lately haver 't been judged hy their critics on the basis of their many suc­cesses, hut on the basis oftheir failures. 
Scott Campbell was the darling of the 
Purdue campus early in his career. His guts 
and competitive spirit were immediately 
evident in his very tlrst collegiate game 
against Notre Dame in 1980. A thumb injury 
to senior all-America Mark Herrmann forced 
the freshman Campbell into the spotlight. 
Despite facing a fired-up Notre Dame crowd and team, on natior.al television no less, Campbell rallied Purdue from an early 17-0 deficit to a close 17-10 halftime score by completing 1-l passc·s in a row. 
"I wasn't scared at aiL" said the calm Camphdl after the game. "I wasn't any more nervous than I was for any game in high school." 
The Irish went on to win despite Campbell's stats of I"' completions in 26 at· tempts for I "'H yards, hut it was apparc·nt that Purdue would continue its tradition of excellence at the quarterback position once Herrmann graduated. 
The Purdue crowd even booed Herrmann and called for Campbell in the fourth game of the season that year when Herrmann was havingone ofhis rare sub-par performance·s. 
As expe<:ted. Campbell took over as a starter his sophomore year. Since then he has passt.·d for more than 2.600 yards the past two seasons, completed his passes at a 56-percem clip, hit on ~~ touchdowns passes, and, at one point, did not throw an interception in over 200 straight pass at­tempts. 
Be's touted as one of the nation's best at his position, and coaches such as Notre 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 

'"We're Number One' buttons would vanish like rose blossoms after a spring frost. Talk of National Cham­pionships would subside. Gloom would be the order of the da)'· The symptoms were annual, and the diagnosis was simple: Purdue Depression Week." 
That's how The Observersummarized the Notre Dame 
rivalry with Purdue ten years ago. 
Today, some of the anxieties seemed. to he relieved. 
While Notre Dame has lost in its last two visits at Purdue, it 
has trounced Purdue 10 times in its last 13 meetings. Hut 
should a Notre Dame team ever take an indifferent attitude 
towards a Purdue football team or have the slightest ofan 
off-day, well, that's when Purdue hackers usually smile at 
one another and say, "A'Notre one bites the dust." 
joe Yonto, an a.'lsistant defensive line coach for Notre 
Dame from 1964·1980, rememhas well tht.' fire that 
Purdue always has in their eyes when they see Notre Dame 
Blue and Gold. 

"Purdue rises to its heights when they play us," s~·s Yonto, currently Notre Dame's special assistant to the ath· letic director. "It doesn't matter what the odds say, what the records are, or what kind of personnel they have. It's always been a great rivalry with very few lopsided scores.·· 
Before 19~0. Notre Dame had won 1-l ofits 15 prt.·vious 
meetings with the Boilermakers. It was in 1950 that the tone of the series as it is known today was set. It was the year that the Purdue football team became known in Notre Dame annals as the "Spoilermakers." 
Frank l.eahy's Notre Dame squad had t , up to then, compiled the longest winnin~ streak in Irish history at 39, and had won three ofthe last four national championships. Purdue, on the other hand, was on its way to a 2-7 season mark. 
But a sterling performance by sophomore quarterhack 
Dale Samuels, who is currently the associate athletic direc­
tor at Purdue, led Purdue to stunning 28-14 upset over the 
Irish at Notre Dame Stadium. · 
"The personal sadness of our first loss in five seasons is indescribable," said a mourning Leahy after the g;~me. "Where had I as a coach failed in our preparation tor our time-honored friends?" 
The Notre Dame football m~·stique was hrought hack down to earth. Purdue became represented as the David who, on any given Saturday, in any given year, cQuld knock out the Goliath ofcollege foothall. 
"A national holiday was declared for all of those who were anti-l':otre Dame, for the same reason some people are anti-Yankee in baseball and anti-Dempsey in boxing," wrote a sports\\-riter after tht.· 19";0 dash. "They get tired of extended success and want to st.·e the champ knocked out." 
Four years later the "Spoilermakers" struck again. 
Terry Brenn:m's tlrst Notre Dame team went 9-1, hut the 
aspiration for the national title was wiped out in the seconll 
game of the season when Purdue upset the Irish at home 
again, 2"'-14. Purdue went on to win only three mon: 
games that ye:ar. 
Soon thereafter, the fighting Irish became known as the "Fainting Irish." From 1956 to 1963, Notre Dame had three losing seasons anu three more in which it wa.' 5-S. 
The Shillelagh Trophy, which goes to the winner of this annu:ll series, became an added incentive for hoth univer­sities when the two teams first started competing t(>r it in 195...,_ The Shillelagh was donated by the late joe Mcl.au~h· lin, a merchant seaman and an Irish fan who brou~ht the shillela~h from Ireland. 
Purdue won five of the first seven Shillela~h hattles hd(>re Ara Parseghian arri\'ed in 1964. Parse~hian teams did manage to defeat Purdue in 1964 and 1966, hut tht: 1960's was an era when Purdue week ;tt Notre Dame hecame the time to "stop smiling. start grumbling, anu hegin praying:· as Tbe Ohsen•erreported hack in 1973. 
In 1965 junior quarterback Boh Griese hit 19-of22 passes for 2H~ yards as Purdue defeated a Parseghian· coached team t(>r the tlrst time. Griese's sun:essor, Mike Phipps, then h(·camt.· the only quarterback in history to heat a "'otre Dame team three years in a row ( 196...·69 ). In Jll three of those years ;\;otre Dame finisheu ~o. 5 in the 
see BATTLE, page 8 
Dame's Gerry faust get headaches just think­
ing about defensing him. 
''I've seen more than enou~h of Sn>tt 
Campbell in the last two years," said Faust 
earlier in the week. 
Amazingly, some people at Purdue feel 
that they've seen enough ofScott Campbell 
too. Purdue won 2H games and traveled to 
three straight bowl games in Herrmann's last 
three years. With C.tmphell at the helm, 
Purdue tlnished with a record of5-6 in 19H1, 
and .~-H last year. 
Included in those losin~ seasons was a nine-game losing streak which induded the final t'our games of 19H 1 and the tlrst tlve games oflast year. In ;t few ofthose games he did not play well. Hut in most of them, like the 19HI -1'5-.B loss to Ohio State in which he completed !t 1 passes in 52 ;uttmpts t<>r 516 yards, he carried more than his share of the load t(>r the te;1m. 
Although the ddense gave up .~0 points a game last year, which put Campbell and his mostly inexperienced offensive teammates in precarious positions, Campbell was an e;tsier target for criticism since he played the glamour position ofquarterback. 
In last year's tinal ~;tme a~ainst arch-rival Indiana. he threw three interceptions and led the· team to just one· touchdown in a I~-­defeat. llis critics came out at full forn·. T!le·y demamkd that .I im Evnc:tt. Campbell's backup. take over the otknsive controls. He has pressed Campbell hard for the starting position this f;lll. 
"I n<:ver had to deal with such uiticism," says Campbell. "I never had to deal with pc·ople hooing me. I quit retding the paper. I haven't read one since last year. I used to enjoy reading ahout the team and myself" 
Campbell, an active leader in the Fellow ship of Christian AthleH:s, has weathen:u the storm t(>r the most part. 
"Sun· it hothers me. But you just have to ignore it. listen to your coaches, work hard, and do what you can to help the tt:am."
•

The words could have just as easily (:ome trom tht: mouths of two Notre Dame seniors 
see MATCHUP, page 9 



Purdue Friday, September 9, 1983-page 8 
ND defensive lir
The Game Plan: Purdue defense 

Cliff Benson All-America candidate 
• • .Battle 
continued from page 7 
nation, its hopes for a national title always vanquished in 
the second gamt· of the year ;against the "Spoilermakers." 
After Parseghian-l·oached teams defeated Purdue squ;ads 
from ll)""~O to 197:~. Purdue gave Parseghian its t1tting 
farc.:wdl gift in 19":'-f -;L,.H,.20 ups~ ovc.:r the.: <.left:n<.ling 
national champions in Notre Dame Stadium. Purdue 
tlnished that season at +()-I. 
But. overall. the 1970'., was an era in which good t<>rtune 
smile<.! on the Irish at Purdut·'s Ross-A<.Ie Stadium. 
In ll)""~l for instance, tht·lrish were trailing ""~-0 wilh only 
three minutes left. It st:Tmt·d that onct" again Purdut"'s cam­
p;tign to "Stop Ar;t Pollution" would he a success. But 
Purdue's punter hobbled a wet hall in the endzone and 
Notre Dame defensive end Fred Swenson recovered it t(>r 
the touchdown. 
The Irish tallkd the two-point conversion t(>r the win hy 
way ofthe "(lenutkct Pl;ty." Tight t:nd Mike Cream:y fell to 
ont· knee (gt:nutlect) at tlw line of scrimmage. thus making 
it set:m to the ddcnders that he missed his assignment. 
Once the senm<.lary wrott• him otfas worthless in the play. 
Creane) sne;aked into the hack end of tht• t•n<.lzone and 
caught the pass that quarterhack Pat Stt:'t:'nhcrge hardy got 
otf 

In 19-.~. '\lotre Dame had a _-lo-0 lead. hut Purdue had the 
hall on Notre Dame's one-yard line with tlve minutes left to 
play. On third down. tailhack Sn>tt Dierking's pass was in­
tt:rn·pted hy l.utht·r Bradley and rerurnnl a Notre Dame­
record 99 yards t<>r a touchdown to St:'al anotht:'r dose 
Notre Dame victor\' at Purdue. 
In ll).., ... Notrt· Dame was pn:dictet~ No. I in most pre­
season polls. Dan Devine's joh was on the line though 
when his team. coming oft a loss the previous week against 
\tississippi, trailed Purdut• in the fourth quarter.!+ 1-t. In 
dt·spt:ration. Ikvint· turned to a third-string quartt:'rhack 
who had sat out till' previous season with a shouldt·r 
st:peration. to rally the team. Joe MontanJ. rt:spondt:d h~ 
completing lJ of his 1-t pass attempts t()r 1 ';-t yards and onc 
touchdown as the Irish triumphed hy a 51-2-t count. Mon­
tana went on w lead tht:' team ro the 19.,... national cham­
pionship. 

"As well as had things, we've also had good things 
happen against Purdue." smiles Yonto. "That's what 
makes this nvalry so great -there is no predictable scak 
as to what will happen." 
No. gloom doesn't pervade the ~otre Damt: campus as it 
once did during Purdue \X't:ek. 
But respe<.·t alwavs will as it should. kst "A'Notre one 
hite the dust" against the "Spoilermakers." 
By STEVE LABATE 
Sports Writer 
. Openers: "Purdue could he as impro\Td as any team in the Big Ten." starts Notre Dame Coach Gerry Faust. "They will come in dt:'termined to start things offhettt:r than last yt:ar when they lost their first five games. \X'e lost our last three last htll, so we've hoth got something to provt:' to ourselves. It should he everything you would want in a season opener... 
Irish offense versus Boilermaker defense: "An awful lot will he determined hy what happens when we've got the hall," remarks Faust. "Purdue thinks its defense is hetter, and we know our offense has to he more consistent and productive. That will tell the tale right thert:." 
The hig question centers around how much hetter the Purdut: defense will be, if it is hetter at all. Last season Boilermaker opponents had neither diftkulty moving the foothall ( 412 yards per game) nor prohlems putting points on the hoard ( 29.5 points per game). 
Purdue's outstanding defensive performer is senior linehacker Brock Spack who has a total of 25H tackles over the last two seasons. But, after Spack, there is a sharp dropotf in experience at the linehacker position. No other player has more than 90 minutes of game playing time. 
Because of this lack of experience, look for Notre Dame quartt:'rhack Blair Kiel to exploit the Purdue defense in the middle hy throwing short to t his backs and tight end. 
Kiel's front wall (from tackle to tackle) of Mike Shiner, Tim Scannell, Mike Kelley, Neil Maune, and Lar­ry Williams should afford him plenty of time to throw tht· football too. For without a douht, tht: Boilermaker defensive line is the tt:am's major weakness. 
Whether senior Melvin Menke ( 2.35 lbs.) or sopho· more Derek Wimberly ( 245 lbs.) gets the starting birth at defensive tackle, he will have his hands full playing across the line of scrimmage from Notre Dame's premier offensive lineman, Larry Williams. Williams, in addition to his two years of experience, will have at least a 35-pound weight advantagt: against either Menke or Wimherly. 
Expect Irish offensive coordinator Rod Hudson to call a lot of running plays designed to follow the strongside blocking of Maune, Williams, and tight end Mark Bavaro. 
How wdl the young Purdue secondary plays when Hudson decides to pass the hall will he a crucial aspect 
Scott Campbell 
of tomurrow's contest. Last season the secondary sur­
rendered an average 223 yards per game, hut Purdut: 
Coach Leon Burtnett claims. "Our defensive secondary 
will he vastly improved over last year due to the fact 
that our young kids now have more experience." 
The young kids are juniors Don Anderson and Corey 
Cooper, sophomore Ray Wallace, and freshman Rod 
Woodson. 
Andt:rson, the strong corner, lead the team in inter­
ceptions in 19H2 with five. Cooper, a junior college 
transfer from Northeast (Okla.), will start his first game 
for Purdue at strong safety. 
Weak corner Wallace, hailed as one of the hest tresh­
man defensive hacks in the country just a year ago. has a 
tendency to give up the hig play despite his accolades. 
Woodson is extremely quick and gifted, but he is only a 
freshman. Woodson's weak corner will he an area of 
activity all afternoon should Kiel and Hudson decide to 
pick on the frcshma t n. 
Boilennaker offense versus Irish defense: What can be said about quarterback Scott Campbell that hasn't been said already' Faust sums up the sentiments of the entire Notre Dame following when he says "We've seen more than enough of Campbell already." Faust, of course, is referring to his third game as a col­lege coach when Camphell single-handedly snatched victory from the jaws of defeat for Purdue with a last second touchdown toss and two-point conversion. 
But Campbell is only part of the story on offenst:. His tight end, senior Cliff Benson, is an all-America can­didate in his own right. "Ifhe's not the finest tight end in the country," says Burtnett, "he's certaintly one of the top two." 
Tailhack Md ·Gray is a speedster who just missed a I,000-yard season in 19H2. Gray is also a threat as a receiver, catching .3H passes just a year ago. 
Up front, the Boilermakers boast both the size and strength needed to establish a running game. Although they lost a starting tackle in Tomjelesky (2H5lbs.)due to academic problems, Purdue will still average 265 pounds on tt>e offensive line. 
If the line can open holes tor Boilermaker hallcar· riers, Campbell will he that much tougher to stop when he decides to put the hall up. The running game will also benefit from the presence of split end Jeff Price. Price runs a 4.6 40 and is a genuine deep threat. His speed will prevent Notre Dame from cheating on defense by crowding the line ofscrimmage. 
Price, Benson, and a hevy of talented backs will give 
Areal 
Freshman Ko\ 
By STEVE LABATE 
Sports Writer 

0. Henry could not have written bette Kovaleski story is not fiction, hut rathe tinues to unfold with each passing day. 
Introduction: Mikt: Kovaleski ( 6-2, 21 his junior and senior years while playin High School in Indiana. He is recruite< including Notrt: Damt: and Purdue. Kov Cbapter One:The setting now is Cartier the Fighting Irish havt: hegun their fit Kovaleski is listed fourth on the depth c 
Cbapter Tu•o.-Suddenly, the second-: hofer, goes down with an injury. Thirds the numbt:r one man, Mike Larkin, who i string. 
Chapter Three: Now it is the week hefc Kovaleski is making a run at Tom Murpl Purdue game. 
In his office, linebacker George Kelle the gutty treshman from New Castle. "H1 player," says Kelley. "I think he possess learned rapidly even though he is still i1 tine freshman prospect." 
It is a few hours before practice whe1 his room in St. Ed's Hall. All week long. n 18-year-ol<.l freshman would he starting Apparently, Kovaleski has heard them tl 
"Well. I'm a little nervous ofcourse. Yc ofhigh school," he says. 'Tm kind ofnervous, hut after I get th the game, I think that nervousness willJ, 
Who can blame him if he is nervom tonight? It is a tough and sometimes fru player makes the transition from high sc 
"Learning all the different defenses tl part," explains Kovaleski. "I have progre with each day. In high school the defense they are here." 

Purdue Friday, September 9, 1983 ·page 9 

eline must bother Cam~bell, nse must improve 
·sur· the Notre Dame secondary its toughest test of the rdue season right off the bat. How well the secondary fares 1dary will depend partially on the front wall of the "Gold · fact Rush" defense. 
Above all else, the Irish defensive line must contain .orey Campbell. The last two years have shown that. when Rod Campbell is allowed to scramble, he's deadly on a 
se<:ondary. Secondly, the line must put pressure on the mer· quarterback. Thirdly, it must stop Purdue's ground at· liege tack betore it gets started. ~a me Expect Campbell & Co. to test Mike Kovaleski, Mike 
Larkin's replacements at weakside linebacker, and rcsh· sophomore Pat Hallage at weakside cornerback. Both has a will be making their first start for Notre Dame. ades. 
•nly a Special Teams: "The kicking game is very suspect ca of and that's what scares me the most because it cost us de to three games last year," states Burtnett. 
For Purdue Walt Drapeza will handle all the kicking chores for Purdue. Like Notre Dame's placekicker Mike 
~hat Johnston, Drapeza is a fifth-year player. However he will that be a rookie at the punter position this season. cots "If I don't get a good start it'll make me start think­says ing," says Drapcza. 
tdy." For the visitors, johnston and Kiel will do the kicking col· and punting respectively. Both are solid at their posi­:hcd tion. last Intangible: Ross-Ade Stadium. "Historically Notre 
Dame has had trouble at Purdue," Faust says. "I found . His that out two years ago when they beat us there in the can-last kw second!'. That was a rude awakening for me, and 1din I'm sure our players who were there remember it." flhe Players to watch: Purdue's Rod Woodson, who 
Burtnett calls "the finest player I've ever seen in college ;ed a football at this point." Burtnett's dramatics aside, as a Woodson's speed will make him a threat to go all the way every time he touches the hall on punt and kickoff 
and returns. Jugh For Notre Dame, look for tight end Mark Bavaro to )due have a big afternoon as the short passing game should 
265 be open. Bavaro is also an exceptional blocker who 
should be especially effective tomorrow against lear-Purdue's 3-4 defense. ~Then The Key: The key tomorrow will be the defensive 
will line's ability to put pressure on Campbell while at the rice. same time preventing him from escaping the pocket . His and throwing on the run. ~·on The Pick: Football games are won in the trenches. 
Notre Dame is too strong on both sides of the line for give the young Boilermakers. 

Joe Johnson 
... 

., ,.,
..' 
!:.:··. 

.. -:.-':-~ ~ . .;. ~ . 
. 
-:-. ) ~­
aI live storybook tale 
Kovaleski suddenly finds himself in lineup 
en betterfiction. However, the Mike LJt rather a real life drama that con­lgday. ( 6-2, 210 pounds) is named all-state e playing linebacker for New Castle ecruited heavily by many colleges, ue. Kovaleski chooses Notre Dame. 
•Cartier Field, it's early August, and their first day of football practice. depth chart at weakside linebacker. iecond-string player, Ron \X'eisen­
Third string. A few weeks later. it is n, who is lost for the season. Second 
eek before opening game and Mike n Murphy to see who will start the 
~e Kelley tells a sportswriter about stle. "He is an extremely aggressive possesses quickness. I think he has is still in need of repetition. He is a 
ce when Mike Kovaleski returns to . long. rumors have surfaced that the starting against Purdue on Saturday. 
them too. >Urse. You know I'm just coming out 
·1get that first hit in the first play of ss will leave." nervous or he does not sleep well lmes frustrating experience when a 
high school to college. 'enses that we have is the toughest :progressed and seem to get better ·defenses weren't as complicated as 
Mike Larkin, however, is trying to make things less complicated for Kovaleski. 
"He's just great," says Kovaleski ofhis new mentor. "Ifl ever have a question, he's at practice and all I have to do is ask him. He knows and he'll just tell me." 
Kovaleski asks because l}e knows he has large shoes to fill in Mike Larkin's. It's possible that he won't be able to play defense like an All-American like Larkin. But, then again, no one is asking him to do so. 
If he can give the Irish the kind of performance that earned him all-state honors, that may be enough for a defense that Kelley says "exhibits confidence." 
Three chapters were completed and the writer returned to his room to continue the Kovaleski story. Suddenly, from a window, a stereo speaker blared a recent hit. 
You were up to your old tricks in Chapters Four, Five andSix 
If Kovaleski performs the same tricks that put him into the posi­tion of possibly being the only treshman starter for the Irish, then maybe, when Larkin returns, the story will become a mystery novel. Larkin or KovaleskP 

N 

The road to Purdue 

5 


continued from page 7 
in the secondary, co-captain Stacey Toran and Chris Brown. 
Like Campbell, the two won immediate fan favor as freshmen when they played key roles in the 1980 Sugar Bowl season for the Irish. The last two years, however, have had their trying moments. 
Brown, especially, was subjected to a painful trial when Campbell complet t ed a touchdown pass and then a two-point con· version against him in one-on-one coverage in the final seconds as Purdue nipped the Irish, 1 S-1 LJ:, two years ago. 
In essence, Brown and Toran have been very steady and consistent players (Toran has e'en been good enough to be named to a few pre-season all-America checklists) that quietly get their jobs done. 
But, even though they have been part of a secondary that has limited opponents to just under a SO-percent completion rate the last 
1"he 
Golde.n 
Dome 

·-·Matchup 
two years, one that gave up only seven touchdown passes last year, they are better remembered as being part ofthe unit which got burned late in the game last year by the Penn State and Southern Cal passing attacks. 
Campbell himself had 25 completions in 39 attempts for 279 yards and two touch­downs against the Notre Dame secondary last year. Can the Irish secondary contain him this year? 
"He's a great quarterback, a good runner, good team man, and a very good com­petitor," summarizes Toran. "I think we'll have problems. hut a lot of our play will depend on our defensive line and and what kind ofpressure they put on him. We plan to keep him in the pocket so he won't run all over the place and have the time to tlnd open receivers." 
Maybe the defensive backs will ex­perience problems with Campbell, hut the secondary plans to give Campbell and his outstanding set of receivers some of their own. 
"We have a smart experienced secon­dary," says Notre Dame defensive coor· dinator and secondary coach. .Jim Johnson. "We don't have the super speedy athletes, hut we are physical and we probably ust· more types of coverages than most other teams do." 
"I think our secondary has more security than ever since I've been here," says Toran defending his oft-criticized unit. Critics have unjustly put Campbell and the Notre Dame s .econdary under the gun recently. And, although they have nothing to prove to the critics, how they do fare tomorrow when they oppose each other may say a lot about the game's outcome. 
.. 

I; 
~' Purdue 
t 
Friday. September 9. 1983 ·page 10 l 
l 
t . 
NOTRE DAME VS. PURDUE 

1V-RADIO: WNDU-TV (Ch. 16) jeffjeffers andjack Nolan 
OFFENSE 
Metrosports Replay Network Harry Kalas and George Connor 12 a.m. Sunday WNDU-TV (Ch. 16) 
NOTRE DAME PURDUE 
Notre-Dame-Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL WNDU-AM 1500 SE 24 Joe! Howard 5-9 171 Jr. WR 2 Steve Grlftin 6-0 185 So. .'\ Alonzujefferson '5·9 172 Fr. 22 Rick Brunner '5·9 1""0 So. SERIES: Notre Dame 33, Purdue 19, Ties 2 QT 74 Mike Shiner 6-8 269 Sr. QT 70 Bob McCurdy 6-4 265 Jr. '""2 john Askin 6-6 261 Fr. 64 Dave Grote 6·'5 265 Jr.
LAST MEETING: Sept. 25, 1982 at Notre Dame 
QG 54 Tim Scannell 6-4 270 So. QG 62 John Fitzpatrick 6-3 275 Sr.
Notre Dame 28, Purdue 14 
94 jer11· Weinle 6·3 2"18 Sr. -4 Andrew Banks 6-2 285 Jr. C 63 Mike Kelley 6-5 269 Jr. C 55 Butch Alder 6-2 245 Sr. RANKINGS: (AP) Notre Dame 5th, Purdue unranked 62 Ron Plantz 6·4 266 So. 6'5 Gerald Boat 6-1 235 Jr. SG 79 Neil Maune 6-5 278 Sr. SG 54 Mark Drenth 6-5 260 So.
TICKETS: Game is sold out 
'5~ Tom Doerger 6·'5 272 So. 6.., Davejaumone 6·3 260 Sr. ST 75 Larry Williams 6-6 284 Jr. ST 69 Paul Alekna 6-3 265 Sr. 76 Mike Perrino 6-'5 2""1 So. 79 Doug Isbell 6·3 262 Sr. TE 82 Mark Bavaro 6-4 246 So. TE 81 Cliff Benson 6-3 235 Sr. 88 Ricky Gray 6-4 227 Jr. 8-1 Martr Scolt 6·2 22'5 Jr.
THE SCHEDULE 
QB 5 Blair K.iel 6-1 206 Sr. QB 10 Scott Campbell 6-0 194 Sr. I 0 Scott Grooms 6·2 19' Jr. II Jim Everett 6·<; 20'5 Jr.The Shillelagh is the trophy FB 32 Chris Smith 6-2 231 Jr. FB 37 Bruce King 6-2 215 Jr. that goes to the winner of .-\'5 Mark Brooks 6·3 228 jr. 20 Eric jordan 6-0 190 Sr.
NOTRE DAME PURDUE 
the annual TB 20 Allen Pinkett 184 So. TB 32 Mel Gray 175 Sr.
Purdue-Notre 5-9 5-9 
SEPT. 10 at Purdue SEPT. 10 NOTRE DAME 
2M GregBell 6-0 210 Jr. 31· Tim Richardson 6·0 20'i So.
Dame football game. It was
SEPT. 17 MICHIGAN STATE SEPT. 17 at Miami (Fla.) FL 6 MiltJackson 6-0 181 So. FL 88 JeffPrlce 5-11 185 Jr.
donated by the late Joe
SEPT. 24 at Miami (Fla.) SEPT. 24 at Minnesota I Mike Haywood '>· I 1 176 So. 48 David Retherford 6·0 I'7'5 Sr. 
Mclaughlin, an Irish fan who PK 4 MikeJohnston 5·11 185 Sr. PK 8 Tim Clark 6-0 183 Sr.
OCT. 1 at Colorado OCT. l MICHIGAN STATE 
brought it from Ireland. The 2 John Carner '5·1 0 170 Fr. 6 Walt Drapeza 6·0 208 Sr. 
OCT. 8 at South Carolina OCT. 8 at Ohio State 
teams began playing for the 
OCT. 1 5 Army at Meadowlands OCT. 15 at Iowa 
trophy in 1957. Notre Dame
OCT. 22 SOUTHERN CAL OCT. 22 ILLINOIS 
has won the Shillelagh 14
OCT. 29 NAVY OCT. 29 NORTHWESTERN 
DEFENSE
tJmes, while Purdue has
NOV. 5 PITTSBURGH NOV. 5 at Michigan 
brought it to West Lafayette
NOV. 12 at Penn State NOV. 12 WISCONSIN 
12 times.

NOV. 19 AIR FORCE NOV. 19 at Indiana 
NOTRE DAME PURDUE 
End 55 Mike Golic 6-5 251 Jr. End 86 Andy Gladstone 6-2 215 Sr. -1<; John McCabe 6·5 2-IO So. 93 Hill '-'lulchrone 6-2 200 So. FT 78 MikeGann 6-5 256 Jr. T 91 Melvin Menke 6-3 23'5 Sr. -I Eric Dorsey 6-<; 269 So. 89 Derek Wimhcrly (>.<; 2-t<; So. NT 38 Jon Autry 6-2 246 Sr. NG 92 Brad Hornor 6-2 2tt0 So. .,-Tim Marshall 6-·+ 2,>,<; Jr 60 '\ate Lindsey 6·2 2·10 .Jr CT 92 Greg Dingens 6-5 257 So. T 99 Chris Scon 6-5 245 Sr. 96 Wally Kleine 6-H 2'2 h. :-John \1orrell <>·-l 260 Fr. SLB 37 Rick Naylor 6-3 227 Sr. End 80 John McKenzie 6-2 213 Sr. '13 Rick DiBernardo 6-~ 229 So. 83 Jim Seward 6·0 220 So. MLB 58 Tony Furjanic 6-2 231 So. LB 57 Jason Houston 6-1 215 Jr. 87 joe Bars 6-<; 271 So. <; Roh Heller 6-0 22<; Jr WLB 49 Mike Kovaleski 6-2 210 Fr. LB 58 Brock Spack 6-1 221 Sr. -l"" Tom Murph~ 6-2 219 Sr. <;)Jim McKenzie 6·1 21-t Sr. SCB 30 Stacy Toran 6-4 206 Sr. SCB 15 Don Anderson 5-10 185 Jr. l2 Troy Wilson 5-I 1 1-o 1-r. ..-Tommy Lee \1yt·rs 6-2 195 So. WCB 40 Pat Ballage 6-2 197 So. WCB 43 Ray Wallace 6-0 200 So. -!8 John Mosley 6-1 19<; Sr. 19 Cris Dishman 6·2 1-c; fr. ss 27 JoeJohnson 6-2 189 Jr. SS 13 Corey Cooper 6-0 185 Jr. 3'1 Daane Spiel maker 6-1 203 Sr ·+2 Kenncd~ Wilson 6-1 I<)<; St.> FS 9 Chris Brown 6-1 196 Sr. FS 26 Rod Woodson 6-1 190 Fr. 2 5 Steve Lawrence 6-0 IHO Fr. 2-Rand' hchtncr (,.I IH<; So. 
p 

5 BlairKiel 6-1 206 Sr. P 6 Walt Drapeza 6-0 208 Sr. HO Mike \'irat·ola 5-11 1H1Sr. 21-1 \tall Kim:er 6·2 210 Jr. 

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
person does against the David Dziedzic Will Hare Jane Healey Steve Labate Louie Somogyi Mike Sullivan Mike DeCicco Mike Leary spread. In other words, it is not Editor-In-Chief Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Editor Celebrity Guest Random Student enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick a winner and give the underdog points. 
MISSOURI 1 over Illinois Tigers Illini Illini Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Washington 15 over NORTHWESTERN Huskies \X'ildcats Huskies Huskies / Huskies Wildcats Huskies Huskies MICHIGAN 15 over Washington State Wolves Cougars Wolves ·wolves Cougars Wolves Wolves Wolves INDIANA even Duke Hoosiers Devils Hoosiers Devils Devils Devils Devils Devils MICHIGAN STATE 12 over Colorado Buffs Buffs Spartans Spartans Buffs Buffs Spartans Spartans PITTSBURGH 18 over Temple Owls Owls Panthers Owls 6 0wls Owls Panthers Owls AIR FORCE 2 over Texas Tech Falcons Raiders Falcons Falcons Falcons R:.1iders Falcons Falcons SOUTHERN CAL 7 over Florida Trojans Gators Trojans Gators Gators Trojans Gators Gators Oklahoma 10.5 over STANFORD Cardinal Sooners Sooners Cardinal Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Clemson 5 over BOSTON COLLEGE Eagles Eagles Tigers Eagles Eagles Eagles Tigers Tigers VIRGINIA over Navy hy 2.5 :\tiddies .'\tiddies \Xrahoos \1iddies Wahoos Wahoos \X'ahoos \tiddies HOUSTON over Miami hy 5 Cougars Hurricanes Hurricanes Cougars Hurricanes Hurricanes Cougars Cougars Notre Dame over PURDUE hv H Irish Irish Irish Boilers Irish Irish Irish Irish 


Showcase 
Friday, September 9, 1983-page 11 
Not Hurting for originality 
chance on U.S. pop charts. The bass line, drums and keyboards are very similar to the ones in the Go-Gos'
by Vic Sciulli 
"Our Lips Are Scaled''. "Change" also has a great reggae dance (not to be confused with disco) sound. Drums are up front on many ofthe LP's tracks. On the
T
he temptation for anyone when listening to a new title track. the drum beat echoes a primal sound
band is to draw comparbons to other groups which reminiscent ofthe Talking Heads. Acoustic guitars arc
sound something like them. Because ot a lack ofex­used sparely but effectively. The Hurting is not syn­
posure to the new sound, tinding a point of reference thesizer music; though used throughout, they are never
through another band is a natural reaction. overwhelming.
Listening to the The Hurting, Tears for Fears' debut "Mad World" features a lush sound but deceptively
album evoked the same type ofresponse. Two years ago simple melody. (The latest Police album shows this
this type of music probably would have been con­style.)
sidered avant garde new wave. But thanks to the recent Tear For Fears' greatest strength lies in their writing
successes ofnew bands, such as The Fixx and Soft Cell, ability. Many ofthe song's lyrics evoke past memories of
audience acceptance ofthe new sound has augured and fear and ofchildhood. In this respect, The Hurting
is not considered as radical as it would have once been. reminded me of Pink Floyd's "The Wall" Though not as
Although many will associate The Hurting's clean, skeptical and dark, the lyrics will grab and hold you and
uncomplicated arrangements and use ofinstruments remain after the song is over.
with other bands it is not an album ofborrowed themes 
I can not grow

and melodies. There is a tremendously refreshing 
I can not move

sound to this LP. 
I can notfeel my age

Englishmen Roland Orzabal (vocals, guitar, 
The vice-like grip oftension holds mefast
keyboards and rhythm programming) and Curt Smith (vocals, bass, keyhoards) form the nucleus ofthe band. Engulfed b.v you Whatcanido
with other musicians making smaller contributions. 
When History's m;• cage 

The two formed their first b~nd, Graduate, at 19, even­
Lookforward to a future in the past
tuaHy changing their name to their present moniker. "Ideas as Opiates" is just as moody sounding as the
The band ~igned a contract with Phonowam U.K. Af­impression its title gives. A drum solo like the beating of
ter releasing their first two import singles ("Suffer the a distance heartbeat sets the ret1ective mood ofthe
Children" and "Pale Sheller"). they began drawing at­song, enhanced by Orzahal's straining lyrics.
tention from dancl· dulls on the East Coast. It wasn't un­Tear For Fears sounds like it can go in any direction
til their third and fourth singles. "Mad World" and on its next LP. The instrumental portions ofmany songs
"Change" were released that they gained a following in are very danceahle and they can easily go in that direc­
their homeland. Alter all this. the band went into the tion on their next LP. However, it would be unfortunate
studio to record what eventually became the rest ofThe if they were to go so far as to abandon their writing in
Hurting. "Sutfer the Children" and "Pale Shelter" were doing this. The Hurting is an exquisite debut album.
re-recorded for the alhum. Barring any breakup, this is one band you'll be hearing
"Sutter the Children", despite its negative sounding from in years to come.
title, has a modern. bouncy heat which could give it a 
letters to a lonely god 
On being thiO-skinned 
artitl.cial color were only trying to look more presentable to the world
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
I 
(which did not see them anyway), he kept staring at our manicured Io_v~ spunkiness, sa~siness, H. L. Mencken, as quotcd·in•,'Aon wenails with contempt in his heart." spmtedness: the attitudes with Landers" this week, wrote: "In old I would have loved the response, which fighting-mad minority mem­age, you forget faces. You forget to if it were not for the bitterness. Some bers stick up for themselves and pull your zipper up.You forget to reader obviously found my descrip­resist being treated demeaningly. pull your zipper down." It's a lovely tion unnecessarily sad or discourag­But Ihate the revisionism in which ·passage, full of truth, humor, and ing. I was not wearing a Roman the perpetrators ofthe alleged wistfulness. But after the lines were collar; my article makes it clear Iwas abuses take back, modify, or attempt published in the Baltimore· Sun, wearing a necktie. The feeling in my to soften their uses of language letter-writers complained: "He was heart -which ~ticks out all over the which have heen perceived as making fun ofthe senior citizens." printed page-was sympathy, iden­insulting. This week, Howard Cosell I write weekly for a national tification, and concern, and not con­is being roasted by cert:m critics of publication. So far, I have caught hell tempt and malice. the Black community. This summer, for hurting the feelings ofold maids I try never to be deliberately President Reagan drew flak because with a fondness for sweets, the vic­unkind. Each of us represents some he was graceless in one ofhis com­tims ofepilepsy, the hard-of-hearing truth about life, which is full ofdirty ments about women. Several years who sit next to me at weddings, trick:;. I'm not going to take back an ago, Father Hesburgh had to Christians who clap their hands impression that has haunted me for apologize because he retcrred to when they get the Spirit, and tradi­weeks, let the chips fall where they Notre Dame students as "kids." A tional Catholics offended by may. Dyed hair doesn't deny that the word once spoken, says the Lord, is knowing I have a torn pair of pants head is still young. Old dolls registered in heaven; we will be held This summer, I wrote a mood pie t ce represent the rest of us who are responsible at the judgement seat on some ofthe local color seen in fighting on the front line in a losing for every idle word we have spoken. Manhattan. battle. The best of them give us No public figure has the right to had­"Three old dolls rode across from courage by the ways they are tlesty, mouth anyone except an outlaw or a me on the downtown bus, all of but that's another story belonging to Russian. Yet there are watchdogs in them with dyed hair, one of them in another busride. S t uftkient for the the cour.try who almost seem to sandals with painted toenails. The day are the painted toenails thereof. make it a profession to he thin­middle lady had a can of liquid diet Painted toenails have a beauty of skinned. Doctors take out insurance the drugstore had given her. 'All of their own at any age. to protect themselves in mal­the vitamins I would need for a day practice suits. Speakers and writers are here,' she said. The other two lis· In a multi-media age, we are being will soon net'd a similar kind of tened thinking oftheir own vitamin · subjected to a censorship through defense against the verbal am· needs. I wondered if they worried hurt feelings; someone, ruffled by biguities. It hurts to be called a bigot. about sickness and death, and kept belonging to the human condition, A mis-placed word can betray a staring at the toes painted in is waiting to silence us, as soon as a writer by its fuzziness. In an im­defiance ofthe aging process." spade is called a spade. We alreadv precise world, where language lries. In today's mail. I got a sheet of have enough problems with the li~s. and often fails. to communicate an paper with my paragraph clipped the propaganda, the perversions, the objective truth between two highly and pasted in the corner, along with obscenities, the deliberate insults. subjective minds whose chemistry the following typed response: To Father Hesburgh's generation, changes with the phases of the "One old priest rode across from and mine, eighteen and nineteen moon, a writer hopes that a reader me, balding and with uncombed hair year olds are kids, with no disrespect will be patient enough to took for his that would have looked better with a intended. Howard Cosell says good intentions. Otherwise, poetry touch-up and dressed in his hot col­"monkey" is a word he would use to will disappear Imagery will be dis· lar on a summer night; but ofcourse his own grandchildren. President trusted as unreliable. Liveliness will that was for showing us he deserved Reagan feels ifit weren't for women, disappear from public discourse. respect, even while he took up a men would sti!l be carrying around Gingerbread men will become gin· mal~cious pleasure in calling us 'old clubs. He doesn't know what's ger persons. God will be neutered, dolls with dyed hair.' Oh, he probab­wrong with that. Maybe the human because no preacher wants to be ly also stared at the young girls, most race wuld be better off if men were labeled sexist. Bigots, not bothering ofwhom also tint their hair but with­still carrying clubs. A club, skillfully to he bland or neutral, will inherit out his scorn. And instead oflooking applied, never left a deadly fallout the earthiness. from which some of at our faces, our lined faces thar had from a mushroom cloud. Maybe the best rhetoric comes. somehow survived and, with their that's the point women are making. 

W
ho s:lys this is a dead town?Just take advantage ofsome of the events listed here and you may be convinced that South Bend is as lively as midnight in Manhattan. Well, almost. 
•fHEATRE 

This weekend the Elkhart Civic Theatre is opening its final play of 
the season, "Romantic Comedy." Written by Bernard Slade, this is a 
love story about two authors. The play will be presented tonight and 
Saturday night at 8:15, at the Bristol Opera House. For tickets call 
848-4116. 
•MUSIC 

At the Holiday Star Theatre it's Rick James with the MaryJane 
Girls, tonight at 7:30 and 11. The Stone City Band will perform Satur­
day at the same times. Tickets are S 15.95. 
•ART 

An exhibition entitled "Afro-American Abstracton" opens Satur­
day at noon in South Bend's Warner Gallery. The exhibit will feature 
some ofAmerica's foremost abstract artists and will emphasize the 
link between African art and modern art. Artist Bennv Andrews will 
speak on the topic at the Bendix Theatre tonight at 7:30. 
A"Business ofArt" workshop, sponsored by the Indiana Women's 
Caucus for Art, is scheduled for Saturday and Sunday beginning at 
8:30a.m. The workshop will take place at the South Bend Art Center, 
Inc. 
•MOVIES 

"Diner", a fairly recent and highly rated motion picture is the Stu­dent Union sponsored movie this weekend. Written and directed by Ban1· Levinson, "Diner" is a humorous and touching story ofa group ofyoung men hanging out at their favorite restaurant. The film can be viewed in the Engineering Auditorium tonight and Saturday at 7, 
9:15 and 11 p.m. Admission is S1. 
As part of the Friday Night Film Series,"Lola,'' a 1982 German movie, will be shown in the Annenburg Auditorium at 7:30 p.m., for S2. 
• MISCELLANEOUS 

Ofcourse, on Saturday afternoon not a soul on campus won't be 
glued to the TV set (or else hamming it up at Purdue), and to help 
those on the scene celebrate, theStudent Union and the Senior Class 
are S(Uing up a tailgater in West Lafayette. It will begin Saturday 
morning and will be located just north of the Golf Starter House, off 
Cherry Street. 

Baseball fans are being taken out to the ball game tonight to see the Chicago White Sox battle the California Angels. The S 1 S tickets are available at the Student Union record store. 
Finally, the Sophomore Class is heading for the Dunes on Sunday. Buses are scheduled to leave the Main Circle at 10 a.m. Tickets are S4. 

"Diner,,. the 1982 motion picture release can be viewed tonight and Saturday night in the Engineering Auditorium. See "Weekend" for times. 
___ ............. ........................... ---....... .
~ 

I 
Sports Briefs 
The Boxing Clubwill hold the first practice for novice boxers on Monday at 4 p.m. in the boxing room in the North Dome of the ACC. Enter at Gate 3. All interested students are invited to attend. No previous boxing experience is necessary. Ifthere are any questions, call Mike Latz at 8308 or Angelo Perino at .3348. -The Obseroer 
The club hockey team will be holding a meeting on Monday, September 12, in the ACC Football Auditorium at 4 p.m. for all people interested in playing for the team. -The Obseroer 
JoeYoPtO, special assistant to the athletic director, will give a lecture on "How to watch football'; at 7:30 p.m. Monday night in the ACC Football Auditorium. -The Obsen;er 
The Non-varsityAthletics Office has an-
nm.nced deadlines for signing up for more tall sports. Wednesday, .. eptember 14 is the deadline for graduate football, the golf team tourney, interhall men's soccer, outdoor volleyball, co-ree inner­tube water polo, and interhall cross country for both men and women.lfthere are any questions, cal1239-6100.-The Observer 
Varsity athletes interested in the NCAA-vFY 
(Volunteers for Youth), there will he an introductory meeting Sun­day. September 11, at 6 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns Auditorium. The group is interested in matching an athlete with a junior high student in the community. The ability to form a friendship with the youth is ofprimary importance. -The Obserz1er 
Friday, September 9, 1983 -page 12 
The men's and women's basketball 
teams will he playing a softball game on 3:30 p.m. Sunday on Jake Kline Field. Everyone is invited. -The Ohsen,er 
Ultimate Frisbee Club practice wm he held 
today behindJake Kline Field between .3 and'; p.m. There will be a match at 2 p.m. Sunday in the same place. Old and new members are welcome. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Women's Fastpitch
Softtiall Club will hold a mandatory meeting for anyone in­terested in playing this year. The meeting will he held on Wednes­day, September 14, at 7 p.m. in the basement of Lewis Hall. If you have any questions or cannot attend, call Chris Callahan at 3783. 
The OIJsen,er 

The Notre Dame Rugby Club'sA, B, C, sides 
will square offagainst Purdue tomorrow at Purdue. Matches start at 9 a.m. and will end hefore the start of the football game. -The Observer 
All ND-SMC students who have paid for their stu­dent foothall season tickets prior to their return to school must pick up the tickets at the ACC second-floor ticket office no later than today. No tickets will he held after today. Tickets not picked up hy 5 
p.m. will be refunded hy the ticket office. -The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club has a game 
against St. Mary's today at 4:30 p.m. behind Stepan. -The Observer 
Montana's arm burns Minnesota 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Quarter· hack Joe Montana threw a career­high four touchdown passes in the tlrst · half and the San Francisco secondary made five interceptions, three hy Eric Wright, as the .f9ers blitzed the Minnesota Vikings 48-17 last night in a nationally televised National Football League game. 
Montana completed only 11 of 18 passes in the first half hut four went for scores as the secondary recovered a Minnesota fumhle and picked off two passes. The 49ers added three more interceptions in the second half. 
The five interceptions tied a single-game record against the Vikings, while San Francisco's 48 points were the most scored against Minnesota in the last 20 years. 
The 49ers built a -13-7 lead after the first period as Montana threw his first touchdown pass, a 21-yard strike to Dwight Clark, and Ray Wershing kicked two field goals. 
It was the second period that proved the Vikings' undoing. though. Just over four minutes into the period, San Francisco had put three touchdowns on the hoard and added another tlve minutes later. 


The Observer LaFortune ofice accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per
-Classifieds seven characters, per day. 
NOTICES  ~F_O_R_RE_N_T~~  ~~__R_ID_ES__~  Desperate tor 1 MSU stud t1ck or GAI NEED MICH ST GAS OR STUDS BAD Money no obJect Call John 1003L Y CALL WILL AT 234-4511 NEED 1 MSU STUDENT TICKET G:AUI \ ~ICHIGAN S'T ATE GA tiCkets neededII II  Fit for the mountains and the bar'rous caves, Where MANNERS ne'er were preach'd. -Shakespeare  
CLAIRE 6826  "'tall Andy at 3676  
Typ1ng. ALL KINOS M-F Alldaywknds  277·8534 afler 5 30  House for rent 5 bdrms . furn . $1 00 mo plus utd 2 m1 from campus Call 233· 2245 or 255·6823  I HAVE CAR AND WILL TRAVEL TO ISU NORMAL IL FRI SEP 9 FOR RIDE CALL DAN 1655  HELP' I NEED 1 GA FOR MICH ST WILL PAY BIG BUCKS KATHY 3429  I NEED 2 USC TIX WITRAOE 2 MSU GAS FOR 2 USC T IX CALL 284-5532  ATTENTION OMBUDSMAN the source of all campus IS havmg an organizatiOnal meeting MONDAY Sept 12 at 7pm 1n  
TYPING AVAILABLE-287 4082 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $20 to $200 flo 1nterest·due 1n 30 days Hours 11 30·12 30 Mon·Fn OH1ce 1n LaFortune basement  FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO CAMPUS 277 3604 FOR RENT COW'LETELY FUR NISHED APARTMENT 1 BEDROOM.LIVING  TICKETS  NEED 4 OR MORE GA 'TIX FOR MICH S'T WILL PAY TOP$$ CALL MAUREEN 264 5180 Need 1 MSU T1cket Call Janet at 284 4261  Need 3·6 MSU vs NO fb t1ckets Call 616)699·7272 or (day) KOABULY/ GRAF office 233·2119 I need 10 M S U tickets Pnce no obJeCt! Call Doug at 288 9059  LaFortune Room 2 0 All are welcome to attend OK, SPORTS FANS! They tell me that th1s IS the next best thmg to ttle sports page So here are my p1cks for Saturday. September 10  
Cash Pa1d N1ghtly for Dehvenng P1zzas Must have car Full or Part T1me Apply'" person al Polish Pnnce P1zzena 18061  ROOM.BATHROOM.KITCHEN 2 CLOSETS CALL JOE LACOPO DIAMOND AVE 233·2203  BIG 731  TICKETS NEEDED FOR USC MUST HAVE·· CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279  Need Student Season T1ckets or ID at 1106  Call  MONEY FOR YOU tneed MSU STU­DENTS OR GAs TOM 277-4283  illinOIS over MISSOUri Washington over Northwestern  
! i  SA 23 after 4 The NOTRE DAME MARTIAL ARTS IN­STITUTE w1ll hold an organizational meeting th1s Fnday at 7 p m 1n room 219 of .Ihe Rockne Memonal All mtrested  NEED OESPERATEL Y 4 MSU TICKETS Will PAY$$$ CALL CHRIS OR BOB A'T 6871 Furn 1 bdrm house tor rent. E of NO Ph  HELP! Need 3 M1ch Stale t1ckets Name your pnce ·thanks Call J1m at 8277 WANTED 1 GAorSTU T1x forMI STATE Will pay well Call after 5 at 277-0953  WANTED TWO MSU TIX PLEASE CALL RON AT 3360 NEED 3 MSU GAS OR STU TIX. PLEASE CALL BILL AT 277-4273  NEED THREE GA TIX FOR MICHIGAN ST GAME. CALL CHRIS AT 234 7033 NEED TWO MICHIGAN STATE TiCK­E'TSI WILL PAY OR TRADE 'TICKETS CALL LAURA AT 2854 CANT WAIT TO  M1ch1gan over Washington State lnd1ana over Duke M1ch1gan State over Colorado Temple over P1ttsburgh Te~as Tech over A~r Force Ftonda over Southern Cal  
people  hould attend thiS meeting  272 0261  NEED 2 M1ch St GAs Will trade 2 Penn St GAs Call Martha 7915  HELP! I need 3 Navy G A s good money Calliom at 1423  W1tl pay  HERE FROM YOU•  Stanford over Oklahoma Boston College over Clemson V~rg1ma over Navy  
THE PICTURE MAN IS BACK! Call for your next pany oreventl232-1622. Ask for Nell. ,  ~NTED  Need 1 MICH ST llc-GA or Stud Doug 277 4273 Pay BIG BUCKS for 6 MSU Gas Call Pat at 277 7595  My mom w111 kill me 11 1 don 1 gel an MSU gen adm t1cker Please save my hie and sell me one Call Pete at 8317 or 8316 I thank and mom thanks you  PERSONALS  M1am1 over Houston Notre Dame over Purdue Note: All p1cks are to beat the point spread. not necessanly the other team  
ATTENTION NO AND SMC STUDENTS FROM TENNESSEE' THE TENNESSEE CLUB WILL HOLD ITS FIRST MEETING ON MONDA'I' SEPT 12 6 45PM 251 ALUMNI HALL SEE Y ALL THERE' ILOST/FOUND l  BOOKS NEEDED FOR FOLLOWING COURSES ART 45 7 IT AllAN REN . FINANCE 370. GOV 1 449. MANAGE MENT 231 AND THEO 367 WORLD RELIG BOOKS FOR SALE FOR FOLLOWING COURSES AL 300 FINANCE 231 AND AACC'T 261 CALL CHRIS AT 234 7279 ANYTIME Need 4 GAs tor any. home game Call Cmdy at 2856  Help" I need MiCH ST and PITT t1x Call Donna 8050 NEED GA TIXS FOR PURDUE AND ALL HOME GAMES.PETE 255-9196 DESPERATELY NEED 3 GAs AND 3 STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN STATE CALLCHRISORDONAT 1657  WANTED So €al tx Call J1m collect 703-456 6806 Keep try1ng I HAVE 4 MSi.J AND 2 PITT TICKETS, BUT I NEED USC !NSTEAD. LET'S TALK. CALL JERRY AT x1763 AFTER 6. Need 4 MSU GAs. Pat 1238  Uncle Gwdo wants to come see the lnsh destroy P1tt. but Uncle Gwdo wasn t able to purchase a t1cket If you want to keep Uncle GUido happy 111 IS 1n everyone s best mlerest to keep Uncle Gwdo happy) then please sell your student or general admiSSion ticket to h•s contact Call Sarah at 1311 RICH UNCLE WANT$ TICKET$ TO USC GAME. CALL x1763 ANYTIME AFTER 6  WE'RE REVIVING THE ZEPPELIN! WE'RE REVIVING THE ZEPPELIN! Led Zeppelin meetmg from 8·2am Sat n1te af­ter we waste Purdue 332 Mornssey BE THERE  
LOST -NO nn9 w11h 1n1hals P R M Dark purple stone set 1n gold Call Paul at 239 5313. or at 277-4851 $40 reward. no quest1ons asked  l1ke to party? Earn $4· 7 00 per hour Call Ne11 at 232 1622. t Oarn 5pm only):llease Help reform an Alabama fan before it's too late! We need tour tix to the MSU  WE NEED MANY MICH ST 'TIX CALL 1773 NEEDS 3 GAS AND 5 STUDENT TICK ETS FOR MSU CALL VINCE AT 3129 OR MARY AT 3141  Wanna make a BIRTHDAY GIRL happy? I dm DESPERATE for one MSU student or GA t1cket For TOP$$ Call FIFI 1271 IMMEOIATEL Yll HELP' 1 despertety need a GA for M1ch  Needed' Two handsome. strong brave and p1ous young rr.en to ass1st 1n Sacred Heart Pansh Jr H1gh. Sunday School. Sunday morn1ng from 9 15 10 30 am Call Moli1e Bernard 239-7511 ENOAD  WSND Radio 1s 1ook1ng for Arr1sts Or gan1zers Idea People tor our PubiiCity/Fromohon Dep1 More tnfo. call Tom ~6824 JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS In  
lost glasses 1n a two to"e brown case 11 found please call J1m 7816 found a pholograph of three roomates down by the lake last thursday n1ght call dav1d at 8196 to cla1m  game so that this <lemented soul can be saved! Alabama fans pay BIG BUCKS to see NO... Call 8286 and ask lor Greg or Marc Call NOW.  NEED 1 TIX TO MSU GAME WILL PAY WELL CALL LISA 6110 Need 4 GAs for MICH STATE GAME Call Kra1g at 1606  S' W1ll pay b1g $$$'! Caii2B4 5119 for sale s• u season t1cket dave 289 3079 afTer 6 FOR SALE 8 MSU 11x' Call Dave at 291·  NEED$$$? Uke a challenge? T~rn your spare t1me mto money Groups or md1v1duals ,.,eeded to promote college vacat1on tours For more ,ntormat1on call  teresred 1n pos1110n oi Cha~rperS'OI" for JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND? Ap phcat1ons ava•lable now 1n Sludent Ac tlv111es OIH1ce They must be returned l:ly Wed Sept 14  
MISSING YOUR MANNERS? Watch Observer!  The  FOR SALE FOR SALE Bedroom SUite. lots of kttchen  $$Need PURDUF T1x$$ Call 1150 1154 Need M•ch1gan St T1x Call 1695  or  2853 after Spm or Ch1p al 284 5263 ME(3A BUCKS• FOR MICH ST TICKETS DAVEX3451 Stude"' season he goes to besl olfer at  orwnte  1414) 781·0455 Des1gl'ers on Travel 4025 n 1 24th St drooklield. W1sc 53005  Women of the NDSMC commuMy II s b1ggeu1 s better. and 11 s back 111 s I he 2nd anr.ual CAVANAUGH SCAVENGER HUNT' F'lday  
1terns. TV tables Reasonable. negot1able  NEED  TWO  MSU  GA  OR  STUDENT  272 1128 afler 6 00  
pnces Phone 233·0104  TICKE'TS  WILL  PAY  WELL  CALL  MULTIMILLIONAIRE  FRIEND  WILL  MIND YOUR MANNERS  
REWARD Lost NO R1ng 84--Biue stone­ KEVIN 8822  Need 4 M.S.U. G.JI . .'s 12 and 2J W1ll Pay  PAY MULTI-DOLLARS FOR 4·6 TICK­ MIND YOUR MANNERS  
Lost wh1ie <T10v1ng 1nto Dillon. still 1n nng  80  MERCURY CAPRI  White.  blue 1nt.  $50 tor 2  1850  ETS TO MSU OR USC. CALL BILL AT  MIND YOUR MANNERS  
box KEN 1601  auto.  4  cyl.  AM/FM  stereo  cassette.  SELL ME YOUR MSU STUDENT  AND  x1763.  
console and more  $4 700 or best offer  GA TIX CA.LL GERRY AT 1604  NEED MSU GA Joi"n 1768  
Help' Sh t e s gone mad' My poor room ate  233 9570 a her 6  .  Remember  what  Mother  said  about  
Sharon a 01N1C0ta. has lost her lovety. bas1c black. no·fnlls. plastiC sunglasses  FOR SALE:  STEREO  SYSTEM:  NAD  NEED 4 MSU TIX STUDENT 0 GA WILL PAY$$ FUFILL A KIDS DREAM  Good-took1ng SISter and fnends desperately need MSU hx Student or  MANNERS  OMBUDSMAN the source of all campus ,nformaliOn returns to the ND carnpus on  
that have a sliver colored cham attached to them and she JUSt cant go on w1thout  STEREO RECEIVER, NAD TURN· TABLE, AR SPEAKERS AND STEREO  CALL 8425  GAs Call J1m at 255·7036 tmmed,atety  !!!HI, RICK II! GET WELL SOON I KEEP YOUFi'CHIN UP IN THE SKY AND YOUR  Wednesday Sep• t 4 at 1 tam There w111 t>e a new took a1 OBUD lh1s year. and we  
them' tl guess she sort a liked them) If you  CABINET.  CALL  JIM  OR  ANN  ANY  $$$for 2 PURDUE GAS call Gob 8315  PLEASE HELP ME• I NEED 2 GAS FOR  NOSE  TO  THE  MATTRESS!  !!!WE  are  anx1ous  to  nelp you  Our numbers  
hnd  these  rather  base  1ook1ng cheap  EVENING BUT PLEASE NOT AFTER 10  MiCH STATE CALL CATHY 2919  LOVE YOU!!! VICKI AND DIANNE  rema1n the same 239·6283 and 239 7799  
lh1ngs. PLEASE call ner 14432) and let her  P.M. 272-5568.  NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GAs OR 1  tc answer  any quest1ons you rr.ay have  
know' Thanks alot' km  GA  AND  1 STUDENT  TICKET  CALL  HELP• I need one MSU GA  Call J1m at  MICHAEL  ITS  NOT  LOVE.  ITS  NOT  on campus happenmgs  
;.  Lost  Art Trad•t1ons workbook  Gardners  FOR SALE NEW 13 SYLVANIA COLOR T V S 4 LEFT 277·6560 AT 17911 51  KATHY AT 2966  1723  CHORALE!!'  LA  GAL NEEDS 4 G A  s 'TO SEE NO  
'  Art Through the Ages Name M1m1 Korbu  RD  23 JUST EAST OF CAMPUS  $225  NEED DESPERATELY 1 MSU TICKET  Need 3 MSU ltx  Fam"y com1ng from NJ  I need 1 studen: t1cket for M1ch State Call  BEAT USC• PLEASE DESPERATE• call  
ly Ptease contact the art dept  - EA  WILL PAY CALL KATHY 7793  If you can help please call Deb at 3466  M1ke x6770  Thank-you  M1che11e 284 · 4138  

TheObserver Friday, September?, 1983 -page 13 
Major League Baseball 
NL West race remains tight 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY General Meeting Monday, Sept. 12 7:00PM in the Engineering Auditorium  
VAN LINES! gets you off campus this Friday & Saturday, Dining or just Getting Away. Departs from the Main Circle, Grotto, & SMC Holy Cross. Hourly trips from 6pm on Friday and 4pm on Saturday. $.50 round trip. Pay as you board  
•Corby's "Kick-off' Football Weekend FRI: Afternoon "Happy Hour" 3PM-7PM 12oz Drafts .SOc Mix Drinks 2 for one ~ SAT: Corby's "In Town Tailg8te1 12:00 noon "Bloody Mary's" 2forone 1:30 N.D. vs. Purdue 9:00-3:00 "Old Style"? _ Victory Celebration Go Irish! Beat Purdue!  


FRI 9/9 • Helneken Nlte Bottles $1.25 
Sat· During Purdue N.D. Game Pitchers $2.50 Come watch the game 
SAT PM-Little Kings Party 2 7oz LiHie Kings $1.00 
SAN  FRANCISCO (AP)  - Dale  
Murphy's second home  run  of the  
game.  a  two-out  solo  shot  in  the  

seventh, cracked t a tie and boosted the Atlanta Braves to a come-from­behind, 12-9 victory o t ver the San Francisco (riants last night. 
The Braves banged out 20 hits, including five by Rafael Ramirez, who had a homer and three RBI as they stayed two games behind the l.os Angeles Dodgers in the National League \X'est. 
They trailt:d 7-~ after the second inning and began their comeback with a four-run third that tied the game at 7-7. They took a 9-7 lead, but the Giants tied it again in the sixth. 
Giant reliever Greg Minton, 6-10, 
• • . Field 
continued from page 16 
Baltimore and Philadelphia during the October Break. Some of the best eastern teams will participate in these IYJatches and should provide a good contest for the Irish. 
The Irish will face Adrian College on Friday, September 16th, for their home opener. The game will start at 4 p.m. on Alumni Field. 
IRISH ITEMS -Sue Swithin been named assitant coach for the field hockey team. Swithin has not coached field hockey before coming over to Notre Dame. 
• • . Tennis 
continuedfrom page 16 
game, Arias reached into Noah's bag 
of tricks, hitting a ball between his 
legs. His shot sailed long and Noah 
wagged his finger at his young op· 
ponent -the youngest player to 
reach the semifinal here since the 
Open era began in 1968. 
"The whole first set he was on top 
of his game, holding serve at love. I 
thought I had no chance in this 
match," Arias said. "But when I got 
to a tie-breaker, well, I'm 16-and-4 in 
tie-breakers this year. 
"In the fourth set, down 30-Iove, I threw it away to him. I ack­nowledged we were going to play a fifth set. He doesn't get too tired, but it saved me." 
The Frenchman showed the "between-the-legs" move to Arias in the third game of the final set. But the alert Arias was there to put away a volley that Noah couldn't return. 
"These shots are only one point," Noah noted later of the crowd­pleasing acrobatics. 
The two held serve until the 12th game when Arias ripped a forehand service return to Noah's feet, which the Frenchman netted. Noah then double-faulted, and Arias had a love­~0 lead. 
Two points later, Noah sailed a forehand volley long, and Arias wrapped up the match with a wicked forehand service return that Noah could only wave at. 
"I played really well and I think he was just a little tin::d," Arias said. "He was purring more pressure on my serve than I was on his. l was pretty lucky. 
"l wasn't looking forward to a tie­breaker in the fifth set. 
Lendllost in the l'.S. Open final to Connors last year. Against \X"ilander, he was majestic, controlling almost every point. 
Top-seeded John \lcEnroe. who was upset in the -.ingles \londay. tt·amed with Peter Fleming yester­day to win their douhks semitlnal. They defeated Australians Pat <:ash and}nhn Fitzgerald 6-·!, --6. --6. and will meet fellow Ann:rican-. Fritz Buehning and \an \\'initsky in thl· final toda\. 
retired the t1rst two batters in the seventh before Murphy launched his ~Oth home run of the season, a towering blast to left. lt was his 1 I th homer against the Giants this season, including three twu-h~mer games. 
Gene Garber, 3--i, worked out of the sixth-inning jam for the victory. 
L.A. 5, Cin. 2 
lOS AN<iEI.ES ( AP) -\1ike \br­shall blasted a three·run homer and Bob Welch limited Cincinnati to four hits in eight innings as Los An­geles downed thl· Reds S-2 laM night. 
Welch, I+I I, earned his sixth straight vicrory, balking home the only run he allowed in the fourth in­ning. The Los Angeles right-hander struck out eight and walked only two in besting \1ario Soto, 15-12. 
N.Y. 6, Mil. 5 
MILWAUKEE (AP)-Don Baylor and Bert Campaneris drove in two 
runs  each, helping the  New York  
Yankees  beat  the  Milwaukee  
Brewers 6-5 last night.  

Bob Shirley, 5·6, got the win, 
allowing four hits and four walks in 
t1ve innings. Rich Gossage picked up 
his 19th save. 

The loss went to starter Mike 
Caldwell, 11-10. 

Chi. 8, Cal. 5 
CHICAGO (AP)-Harold Baines and Greg Luzinski hit consecutive homers in a tlve-run third inning, and the Chicago White Sox hung on to beat the California Angels H-5 Thursday night. 
Rich Dotson, 17-10, walked five 
and struck out two in seven-plus in­
nings ofwork. 

The loss went to Mike Witt, 7-12. 
Hou. 3, S.D. 2 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -Denny Wal ling's pinch-hit double with one out in the tenth inning scored George Bjorkman from first base and gave the Houston Astros a 3-2 victory over the San Diego Padres yesterday. 
The game ended a four-game losing streak for Houston and a four· game winning streak for San Diego. 
~kl: LWIIE/S.!DI\Ir -1WRf'\ 
C()M111JNIC!liTI{)~ 


~~--fJ·r I lr=~I()A\~ lr=IIIL~\ ~~~~~~' 
Seplember 9 Lol• (1982) Germany Directed by Aa1ner Werner Fassbinder. In German with English subtitles. 
Set in postwar Germany but denving its lnSpl',lliOil "'--'"' ··v•· ..>ternoerg s 
The Blue Angel (referring to the movie ilsel' rrol Lola the woman). Lola 
transforms the cabaret where Dietrich e'1t,ces into the site lor the 
town's most corrupt deals. the place ...nere the soclopohticar elite meet. 
where they QO to see lola. Enter an honest oow governmel"' vfficilll. 
and the dynamics of the town. the cabaret. and lola herself >'eem bound lor change 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 

~--T()N I f3 tiT-•2...._.,., 
Senior Class 
and the 

N.D. Student Union 
present a 

Tai lgater at Purdue 
Saturday before the game On the north side of the Golf Starter House off Cherry Lane 


1U~e~e? ~et?i'tJ~tu-ee 
'Ca,tt'etJ(Jift, 

1Uie-e .7 etJe~lf ?lttJ~ed41f 7-9 /t'* 
Dance lessons ranging from polka to 
rock'n'roll to disco will be given on our campus by Fran DeMarko. 
Your first lesson is FREE and the fast­stepping begins Monday, September 12 at 7:00p.m. 
L.._____________ ----·--------·-­
The Observer Friday, September 9, 1983 -page 14 

\ 
'' 
: ! 
! ·. 
I 
1 
i 
i I
l: 
I 
j 'i II 
.! 
' 
il j,J 
;) 
'' 
/'
I}
), . 
~: ~ 
~ 
jl
J) 
')
J,, 
1~.: 
J: 
I 
j
1 
l 
I' 
(• 
(:. 

USED RECORDS 25 Percent Discount 
with this ad. offer goog through 9/17/83. Collectible Records LWE &Cedar Mishawaka, IN HOURS: Tues through FRi. 5pm-8pm Sat. noon-4pm 

Seats are still available!! 
Sign up at the Student 
Union Ticket Office, 
1st floor, LaFortune. Cost is $10 
Under New Management~ 
U~t ~LL 
Chinese Americaa Restalralt I Cocktail L011nge 
•BlAND NEW CHEF •BRAND NEW STYLE 
AUTHENTIC SZECHAUN AND HUNAN TASTE 
I 
LUNCH SPECIAL 1 fREE 
ANYCOMBINATIONPLATE I HOUSE 


FORONLY I w 
INClUDES SOUP. EGG ROLL $295 I IN E 
FRIED RICE.ENTREE AND HOT TEA I 
Brian & Mary G. appearing every Friday & Saturday 9pm -lam 
272·7376 

130 Dixie Way South, South Bend ~Roset.rten (Next to Randall's Inn) 



Trio to the Vatican Exhibit 
The Department of Art, Art History and 
Design will be sponsoring a trip to the Art Institute of Chicago on September 29 or October 4 (depending on availability of tickets) to see the The Vatican Collections: The Papacy and Art. 
The total cost for the trip, including transportation & admission to the exhibit will be $15. Payment in full must be made at the Art Department office, 132 O'Shaugnessey, by 5:00pm, Monday, September 12. 

BANQUET ROOMS . & GROUP RATES AVAILABlE 


SUNNYSID 
BEVERAGES 
Beer and Soft Drinks 
11 Why buy retail when you can buy wholesale" 
1340 South Bend Ave. across street from campus FREE POSTERS 
234-1114 
20 DIFFERENT BRANDS OF KEG BEER AVAILABLE INCLUDING IMPORTS OPEN TILL 12:00 Saturd_ay 
Goralski named to SMCstaff 
• Brian Goralski officially has been named head coach of the Saint Mary's volleyball team. 
Goralski, who played volleyball at Clay High School and Ball State t:ni­versity, replaces Erin Lorenz who resigned to devote more time to her job as Director of Athletics. 
The South Bend native was a member of the Junior National and Sports Festival teams in 197H and was named Junior Olympic All­American in hoth 197' and 19'8. He played at Kellogg Community College in Michigan before finishing his competitive career at Ball State. He has coached girls' and women's volleyball for the last five years. 

DORM ROOM SPECIAL 
$429.00 
• MITSUBISHI 
i'&AUDIO SYSTEMS 
- 
111111  ,.,..,  • 95S­ _,  •  
- 
•:JI::>')Q  -------­ \----­ 

DA-RB 35 watt/channel receiver Great features, great sound and a 3 year warranty! 
$230.00 
r-.Nakamichi 
BX-1 Cassette Deck 
High Fidelity says "best buy". 20hz-20Khz response! 
$299.00 
GENESIS 
The Basic­
Loudspeaker Is a compact, full-range speaker with a lifetime warranty 
BASIC lOUDSPEAKER 
. ~0~
o•'&'\0~\•'-' 
.,401 N. Michigan South Bend, IN 46601 (219) 234-5001 


. Friday, September 9, 1983 -page 15
eekend 




• / 
/ 
-
• / 
/

Sponsored by Alpha Epsilon Delta 
/ 
• 
/ 
~ 

Friday 
Saturday
• 
/ 
~ 

Bud Night Ladles' Night
• 
~ 

Free T -Shirts Reduced Prices 
DINER • ~ 
/ 
~ 

and Hats for Ladles 
~
• 
~· 

Raffles all night 9:30-11:00
Engineering Auditorium • 
~· 
, ~·
• / 

Friday &Saturday • 
"
• 
" 

7, 9:15, 11:30 
/
•


• , / ~ 
" 

Bloom County 

fi) 5fl?"tAl7 1H6 MIW.'1HI5 IS STEVe •.• 
WHAT J~K ? I'U. 1fU. 'fA 

w~~...tfi WHAT ffi YrJJ IOOW ~ 
WHAT JUNK .•. 300 
•''A%·0-MATIC5.~ 900 
f.Vfl< GeT MY HI1N/?6

B<JRL. .M,~ ~..ORP5 ..
11-115 JUNK ~N£ 
{)J WIKJ€V€R­

(If-MOO!(X; HOrt'i-5.. YEAH ... RJUHT. .. HI!.AR/005... 
I 
SE;t(f W, c.o.v. ? 

Fate 

Berke Breathed 
I'U. Bf.. 

IN CANA~. 
RaM.


Photius 


Mellish 

Dave and Dave 

ACROSS 25 Political 1 Applaud Landon 5 Frog genus 27 Taking 9 Athlete it easy

The Dally Cross"\Vord 
Jesse 31 Support 14 Round dance 35 Virginia 15 Black, to willow 

poets 36 Tres ­16 Insertion 37 Hang down 
mark 40 Farrago 17 Selves 41 Dill, old 18 Money for style 
a special 42 Firing 
purpose caps 19 Attempt 44 Skelton 20 One in a or Ball 
strange 48 Dijon 
&nvironment season 

23 Desist 49 Arab prince 
24 Rhone 51 1400's 
tributary navigator 
Thursday's Solution 

© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 9/9/83 9/9/83All Rights Reserved 

•4 
p.m. -Spanish Club Tertulia, Lafortune Main Floor 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium. Prof David Morrison, 226 CCMB 

•7 
p.m.-Notre Dame Gaming Club Meeting, 204 O'Shaughnessy 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "The Year of Living Dangerously," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Alpha Epsilon, S 1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Lola," Annenburg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Soccer, ND Men vs. St. Francis College, Cartier Field 


Saturday,Sept.lO 
•1 :30 p.m. -Football, Notre Dame vs. Purdue, West Lafayette 
TV Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.rn. 10p.m. 10:30p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
"Okay, here we go again ... one ... two ..." 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 MASH 22 family feud 28 Joker's W'ild 34 Straight Talk 16 THA 22 Dukes of Hazzard 28 Benson 34 Washington Week in Review 28 ABC Comedy Special 34 Wall Street Week 16 TRA 22 Dallas 28 Friday Night Movie 
34 Prime Rate 34 Moneymakers 11 16 Eischied 22 falcon Crest 34 Great Railway Journeys 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 Tonight Show 22 Tennis Highlights 28 ABC News Nightline 16 Friday Night Videos 
55 More mat· ters for consldera· tlon 
59 Animal 
trail 60 Astringent 61 MeeJing ~­
place of 
old Greece 62 Gog and­63 Nothing 
more than 64 Crony 65 Quench 66 Paradise 67 Matched 
collections 
DOWN 1 Culinary worker 
2 Method of 
reasoning 3 Climbed 4 Former 
Turkish 
title 5 Gassed up 6 Touch 7 Unaccept· 
able acts 8 Few­between 9 Indian and 
Arctic 10 Dilly-dally 11 Gaelic 12 Impending 
13 Animal 
enclosure 21 ·Eskers 22 Trial 26 Coat 
material 28 Passage 29-~ ;-'--" 
30 Pompous 
talk 31 -die 32 Give 
attention 33 Involved 34 Explosive 
sound 36 Sand ridge 38 Crude 
mineral 39 Carnival 
employees 43 Gist 45 Come forth 46 Relative 
ofatm 47 Calumniate 50 Irritated 52 Pears 53 "The Last 
-Mohicans" 54 Fish 55 Hyalite 56 Professor­
ial gown 57 Positive 58 Sweet 
potatoes 59 Army men: abbr. 

.. 
.' 


Tennis team aims for big year 
.. 
I 
as 1983 fall campaign begins 
ByJANE HEALEY ·! early in the fall season. These barely eluded the team last year. Assistant Sports Editor scores provide Petro with all the "That's what's motivating us now. motivation she needs. We have to work -work hard from 
For all those making the road trip 'Tm excited to win," she said. day one. That's our attitude.'" to Purdue this weekend, there is an ''I'm tired of losing to those two Petro's outlook will be tested in attraction other than the foothall teams. I think we should win these. the new "\lorth Star Conkrt·nce game awaiting you. Tomorrow "When we played I T llinois last which Notre Dame joined in the oft' morning, the Notre Dame women's year. we had three freshmen in the season. Eight schools including tennis team will open its fall season starting lineup, and it just happeneu :"Jotre Dame are part of the newly· against the female Boilermakers at 9 to be our tlrst match of the season. formed league -Hutter, Dayton, 
a.m. That really worked to our disad­DePaul, Detroit, Evansvilk. Lciyola, 
For all those who won't be making vantage.'· and Xavier. the road trip this weekend, you can 
This year, Petro has a more ex­As of now, the onlv two teams
catch your first glimpse of the Irish 
perienced group of players on the from the North Star that the Irish
Sunday morning on the Courtney 
roster. Only one freshman, jo-Anne will f.tce are DePaul and Butler. Hut
tennis courts at 10 a.m. against an­
Biafore. will be t11ling a spot in the South Bend will be the site of the
other Big Ten opponent. Illinois. 
top six singles positions. conference tournament the
ln a schedule that Coach Sharon 
The other five spots will he weekend of Octoher l + 1'5. The
Petro characterizes as "tough... the 
determined between tive returning ~vinner of the tournament will be
inaugural weekend is an apt begin· 
players -~uzie Panther. Lisa LaFrat­crowned the :'\:orth Star champion.
ning. 

ta. Pam tischette, :\!ary Colligan, and Two other tournaments Petro is
"'X-'e have our two toughest 
Laura lxe. This weekt·nd should looking forward to are the Irish In·
matches of the season this 
help Petro solidify that lineup. for vitation (October H-9) and the tirst
weekend," she said. "It's not going to 
the time being though, she isn't \'<'ildcat Invitational which will be
be easy to heat Purdue at Purdue.the 
worried. She is pleased with the held at :'-lorthwestcrn lniversity
day ofa home football game.·· 
overall talent of the group. ( (ktober 1-2 ). a traditional power­
It hasn't been easy for the Irish to 
how-e of talent. "That (the

beat Purdue in the past either. In the "This team is much stronger than Wildcat tourney) should he somefall last year, the Boilermakers last year," Petro said. "The in­
great tennis." Petro said.

handed Petro's squad an unmerciful dividual players came hack as better 7-0 lashing in West LaFayette. The tennis players." As in every other sport. only time home court auvantage gave the Irish Raw talent won't carry the Irish to will tell if Petro's expectations will little inspiration in the spring as they their goal. and Petro knows it. he futilled. from now until May, the 
! l lost once again -:".2. "We have our eye on the National Irish will work toward that coveted lllinois was a more equal op· Championship," she said, referring and, as of yet, unattained National ponent, but still beat Notre Dame 5-to the Division II championship that Championship. 
Thc Oh,cnTr/Scutt !lower 

Pam Fishette and her Nntre Dame teammates hegin tbeyear that 
U.S. Open Tennis 
tbey bope will bring them the Division /J IVationa/ Championship. The first fall match fJ{ theyear will be at Purdue tomorrow morn­ing For more on tbe team's season, seejune Healey's stor:l' at right. 
Arias, Lendl move to semi-finals 
!\lEW YORK ( AP)-Ninth-o.;eeJed here. was serving for the opening set J·.and volley. 
r 
Jimmy Arias surprised Yannick when Arias, this year's Italian Open After having his 1<:-ft wrist taped ­
What's Happening? 
:'l:oah, .md ivan l.e1dl nJ(:'thodically and l .S. Clay Courts winnt·r, pulled he apparently hurt it when ht.· dove
II .. ,, 
and dlkiently diminatt:J \tat:-. otr his first surprise. With the score h>r tht: hall on the hardcourts at tlw
Sports this weekend 
Wilandt:r yesterday to advance to -±0-~0. Arias rn:led otfthe next three :'\\ational Tennis Center -,\rias
I the semifinals of the l :.s. Opt>n Ten­points to break the Frenchman and puled otf the only :-;enice break of 
nis Championships. pull within ';--t. the third set. hrt·aking Noah at l '; in 
The 19-year-old Arias oustc:d Tlw two then battled into a tic:· the sixth game. the tina! point com· :\loah --6. +6, 6-~, 1-6, 7-5. while bre<iker and ag.1in Noah jumpt:d out ing on a wicked backhand service 
Friday 
Soccer vs. Saint Francis 
LendIstopped Wilandt·r 6--i, 6-4, --6 front. this time +I. But Arias took return to Noah's feet.
8 p.m.-Cartier Field 
to set up a semifinal battle tomorrow the next six points and the tlrst set. Noah, who hit a ball between his in America's premier tennis event. Arias lost his serve in the fifth legs with his hack to the net in an 
,; l '' 
Saturday 
The othc:r semifinal will pit defend­game of the second set as :\loah earlier match, delighted the crowd
! ' 
ing champion Jimmy Connors evened the match. But Arias hrough£ again when, in the ninth game of the
Football at Purdue, 1:30 
against 16th-seeded Hill Scanlon. the crowd of 20,S56 to its feet in the third set, he was wrong-footed, but
Tennis at Purdue, 9 a.m. 
The women's semifinals today eighth game when Noah hit a stop was able to hit the ball behind his
Field hockey at Purdue 
will send top-seeded Martina Nav­volley and the Grand Island, N.Y., back, putting up a deep lob that Arias ratilova against No. 5 Pam Shriver, native raced towards the net and returned wide. 
Sunday 
while defending champion Chris dove to the court, just lifting the hall Noah hret:zed through the fourth Evert Lloyd, seeded No. 2 this year, over the net. set, breaking Arias in the second and
Tennis vs. Illinois 
will play No. 14 Jo Durie of Britain. Noah, who went on to win the fourth games. Hut in the fourth
10 a.m.-Courtney Center 
Noah, the 19H~ French Open game, lost that point, however, champion who was seeded ti.mrth when he netted the ensuing back-see TENNIS, page 13
I',
''·'I 
Field hockey squad 
I 
l 
'I 
: l . ~ opens year tomorrow 
By MARY SIEGER than in the past." Sports Writer Last year, the Irish went 13-H on the season and graduated several top players. To com­
Gerry Faust and the Notre Dame football pensate for these loses, Bishop has shifted team won't he the only ones facing a hattie on positions and is using a different game system the playing t1eld tommorow in West Lafayette. to provide more defense which she feels will .Jan Galen Bishop's tield hockey team will also be the key ro winning when playing tough 
. ! 
open its season tommorow at Purdue as it teams like Purdue. : ; faces a tough Boilermaker squad. In her fourth and tina! year at Notre Dame, 
Tomorrow will he the tirst time the Irish Bishop plans to work on closing the "talent have played the Boilermakers in two )Tars and gap" between Notre Dame and the NCAA Bishop expects the match to be a good chal­Division l teams. She expects to defeat at least 
lenge for her team. She feels if the Irish "can' one of the Division I squads this season and match Purdue for spec:d, then we'll he t1ne." says, "this year, we're out to get them." Bishop has named the travel squad, but has This year, Bishop feels the veterans are not yet decided who will start against Purdue. ready to face Division I teams like Purdue. . She expects team captains Janet Hlavin and "They're past the point of being scared," 
Jettsie Totten as well as returning veterans she says. "Now they want a chance to heat the Claire Henry and Molly McCabe to pertorm Division I teams." well in tomorrow's game. 
Another of Bishop's goals this season is to Although the Irish have only been practic­win the Dayton Invitational Tournament in~ for 12 days, Bishop expresses contldence which will be held on November t and 5 and in the team despite the fact that there are she is optimistic ofan Irish victory. seven freshmen on the squad. According to Bishop, the highlight of the "This is a better team than last year's," says season will he the team's trip to tournaments is
The Notre Dame field hockey team tram is trying to close the gap between 
Bishop. "There is more depth and talent. The one ofthr~e Irish reams that will begin their itself and the big powers. For more~ see 
talent level ofthe incoming freshmen is hetter see FIELD, page 13 s~a,s(Jrr. (o,morrow at Purdue. Jan Bishop's story at left. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 









