
-----------------------------------------------------~ 
• • • The Bindery -page 10 

VOL XVII, NO. 93 
rllt' indqwndeiH ~rudenr nn' ~paper ~lT\ ing nD!re dame and ~aim man··~ THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1983 
Israeli Defense .'11inister Ariel Sbaron StiJ'S be 11'illnot comment on tbe findings oftbe inquiry commission on tbe Beirut mas.wcre. Tbe commission recommended tbat Sbaron s/}()uld resign. See related stOI)' below. ( AP Pboto) 
Sharon urged to resign 
Saint Mary's elections 
New officers to be chosen today 
By MARGARET FOSMOE margin Tuesday in the Notre Dame secretary. Campus Campaign Reporter elections. •Michele Manion, president; Juniors will pick one of the two Maureen Karnatz, vice president; The fate ofthe unopposed student tickets in the race for senior class of­Patty Nolan, treasurer; and Janet body officers ticket, the nuclear tlcers: Saas, secretary. 
freeze referendum and class oftker •Caroline Adornetto, president; There are also three tickets for positions will be decided in the Saint Katie Keenan, vice president; Jackie sophomore class officers: Mary's elections today. Bott, treasurer; and Kathy Jennings, • Anne Marie Kollman, president; 
Voting will take place from 7 a.m. secretary. Sheila Flood, vice president; to 6 p.m. in dorm lobbies. Augusta •Kathleen Murphy, president; Gretchen Wroblewski, treasurer; Hall residents and off-campus stu· Denise Drake, vice president; and Kathi Hatweger, secretary. dents may vote in LeMans Hall. Maggie Walsh, treasurer; and Beth •Amy Bertrucci. president; Anne Faculty members voting on the Aisthorpe, secretary. Karnatz, vice president; Sandy nuclear freeze referendum also vote Sophomores will have three tick­Knezevich. treasurer; and Debbie in LeMans. ets to choose from tor junior class Buchan, secretary. 
The sole ticket in the race for stu· officers: •Julie Harmon, president; Mary dent body officers is Elaine Hocter, •cara Hageman, president; Michelle Sauer, vice president; Theresa student body president; Lee Ann Lopez, vice president; Mary Ann Pot­Hardy, treasurer; and Janet Biegal, Franks, vice president for student af· ter, treasurer; and Martha Jones, secretary. fairs; and Madeline Hoch, vice presi· secretary. Because of the single ticket, stu­dent ofacademic affairs. •Katie Baisley, president; Cindy dents will be allowed to vote "yes," 
This is the second consecutive Kimball, vice president; Patty Rick­See ELECTIONS, page 9
year at the College that a student ert, treasurer; and Meg Linnen, body ofl:kers ticket ran unopposed. Students will also vote on the uni· lateral freeze resolution, calling for a 

ND elections end 
U.S. freeze of the testing, produc­tion, and further deployment of all nuclear weapons, missiles, and 

with office runoffs 
delivery systems. The referendum 
By DAVID DZIEDZIC 
was defeated by almost a two-to-one 
Campus Campaign Reporter 
The Notre Dame Student Body President/Vice President race .md two Student Senate races will hi' decided in a runoff dection today_ SBP/SB\'P candidates Brian Callaghan and Peggit• Prevoznik, who earned -t6.6 percent of the vote in Tuesday's c:lection. will oppo~e

Israeli's investigate massacre 

Tim Connolly and Jim l.eous, who earned 29.6 percent.JERUSALEM (AP) -The Israeli He said most mmtsters favored coalition, met with Begin Tuc::sday 
Rob Bertino and flounder Brisson will face off for the Senate Di~­Cabinet yesterday reviewed a adopting the judicial panel's recom­night and later told reporters the 
trict I seat. Bertino rc:ceived 57.--1 percent and Brisson 51.6 percentdamaging judicial report on the mendations and that he assumed prime minister would "absolutely 
in Tuc:sday's balloting. 

Beirut mssacre, and an oftlcial who they ultimately would ask Sharon to not" tire Sharon. an important 
The District 5 race will also he decided in todav·~ hallming. Dan: attended the meeting claimed resign. The official's version of the source of conservative support tor 
McAvoy. who garnered -t3.6 pt:rcent in Tucsdav·s tally. will face Defense \1inister Ariel Sharon urged Cabinet meeting could not he con­Begin. 
Alison Yurko. who c:arned 2H.6 percent.

the ministers to remove him from firmed independently. The panel said Sharon should Bob Riley, R. Michael Quinn. and Rich Spolzino wert· t·lectnl to 
office as recommended by the com­While the ministers mc::t, more resign or be tired tor allowing the Student Senate in Districts 2, --1. and') vesterdav. 
mission. than 1,000 people gathercd in front Lebanese Christian militiamen into 
On-campus students may vote in their dorms from 1I a.m. to I :.~0 The Cabinet ended its second of the Cabinet building, chanting the Sabra and Chatilla refugee 
p.m. and --1:50 p.m. to 6:50 p.m. Off-campu~ ~tudents can vote in emergency session in two days after their support for Sharon and the camps. It also urged the chief of 
Lafortune Student Center from 1 1 a.m. to -t: 1') p.m.

3 1/2 hours. It did not announce any government. They pressed around military intelligence. Maj. Gcn. response to the suggestions made by Sharon's car as he arrived for the Yehoshua Saguy, be fired. the commission that investigated Cabinet meeting. It added that it would have recom­


Mardi Gras support
the Beirut massacre. hut scheduled a In Tel Aviv, howe,·er. about -tOO mended di~missing the military third session for this afternoon. people gathered in the streets and chiefof stall, Lt. Gen. Raphael Eytan, Sharon was quoted in several demanded that Sharon resign, as were he not retiring in April. 

decreasedfrom past 

news reports as refusing to quit his recommended by the judici;tl panel Begin came under less har~h post and insisting that Begin would that investigated the massacre_ criticism. foreign \1inister Yitzhak By PATRICK MALLEY the dining hall as an example. have to fire him. The opposition Labor Party said it Shamir was told he bore some News Staff "That's probably why so many 
But a senior oft'icial, who refused was "astounded by the insensitivity responsibility tor the massacre, hut people showed up that night." 
to he named. said Sharon proposed of the government" and demanded no punishment was recommended. It will take some time before Four to tlve hundred people at­that the Cabiet formally ask for his the Cabinet swiftly adopt the com­Begin appears to have several op­Notre Dame's new Mardi Gras tended the public dance from 9 to 1. resignation. mission's recommendations. Israeli tions, each of which could convulse generates the student support it Klocke and her assistant chairman 
The official said Sharon told the newspaper edit<lrials were almost Israeli politio. The commission's enjoyed in years past, says this year's Liz Masciale said that changing the minbtcrs to ignore: the commis­unanimous in urging the recom­tlndings have no legal force, hut al­Mardi Gras chairman Karen Klocke. site of the dance helped. "The guys sion's recommendations for punish­mendations he accepted. ready have had a clear impact on While this year's events, the last year did a great job. We moved it ing military officers criticized in the But Avraham Shapira, parliamen­public opinion that would hc impos­Talent Show and the Dance-a-thon, on campus so it would be more report. tary chairman of Begin's ruling sible for the go,·ernment to ignore. were successful, Klocke hopes for a 
See MARDI , page 5 
bigger turnout next year_ "I think it will take a couple of years tor Mardi
ND Law School 
Gras to catch on." Over 12') people attended last Friday's talent show in Chautauqua 
Error 
and 200 sponsored dancers entered the 12-hour Dance-a-thon held in

Report pushes for new construction 

What's in a name? A lot, 
By RYJ\J.~ VER BERKMOES The presem huildmg was last ex­problem for tht: school's accredita­the South Dining Hall. estimated 
especially when it comes to 
.Uanagmg Editor panded in 19-5 when an addition tion right now. hut that "it could Klocke. 
elected office. l'nfortunately,
designed In-Ellerbe and A~sociatc:s lead to a problem in the future." She blamed the popularity ofgam­
there was a name mix-up in 
During breaks between classes, was completc:d. It ...:reated the One: of the main henetlciaries of bling, the staple of tormer Mardi 
the election results chart in 
the hallways resemble zoos. boxes present lihran and abo provided any incrc::ase in space would he Gras events, and not apathy, as the 
vesterdav's Obsen•er. Con­of documents sit near leaky air con­several faculty oftlce~. "The addition .Jame~ II. Seckinger. director of the major cause of the small turnout. 
trary to ~hat was reported in 
ditioners, tiling cahint:ts can be was built to solve the prohkms then: ;\Jationallnstitute for Trial Advocacy "Notre Dame isn't so much apat­the chart, Rob Bertino led the tound on stairway landings. These (see related stOI)'). Th~ Institute, 
hetic as it is traditional. People here 

Student Senate District 1 race 
are so caught up in tradition. Some­Notre Dame: Law School that are PACE ~~ gradually expanded into space for­37.4 percent of the vote. 
are some of the condition~ at the The--------~ headquartered at :'l:otre Dame. ha~ with a vote total of .367. and
thing new takes a while to catch on. I'd ask people to dance and they'd
responsible for the necessity of an merly devoted to the law library. 

flounder came
Report .........;;;t--Brisson in 
addition to the present building. "We need at least twice the space; ask 'Why can't we gamble''." 
second, with a vote total of
"I admire the 200 people who didAn expansion of the facility is there was no anticipation of future an expansion would he a tremen· 

.31 0, and .31.6 percent of the
dance. They went out and did some­

specifically mentioned as of top needs," said Link. dous boon to us. We used to have a -vote. Bertino and Brisson will 
thing non-conformist. They are 200priority in the PACE Report. Accord­A recent revit:w of the school by nice lounge where faculty could 

square off in the District 1
oft:the-wall people." She cited theing to Dean David Link of the Law the American Bar Association meet with student~ -now it's got 

race today. The Observer
participants' after-dinner limboSchool. "We first realized five years criticized the lack of space. Link two secretaries, a Xerox machine, 
regrets the error.
dance through the occupied side of 
ago we needed more ~pace." does not feel that is a serious 
See PACE, page 5 
~ -~~ 

.-----------------------~-------------------~--------­


News Brie/§ 
By The Ohseruer and The Associated Press 

The South Bend Blood Bank needs blood 
donors of all blood tvpes. The center is located at 212 W. ~a,·arre. Those interested ~hould call 2.)-t-11 ';7. -The Ohseruer 
Notre Dame faculty and statt·members and graduate students were allowed to vote on the nuclear arms rekrendum in the Tuesday elections. The faculty were in favor of the referendum .)7 to H, while the graduate students voted 92 ti>r, ~I against the freeze. -The Obsert•er 
William M. Agee. the hespecracled businessman whose romance and ambition drew gossip and headlines, is looking for a job. Headhunters say that despite his controversial image, he is a hot property in New York. "Having a high profile doesn't mean much anymore in the business community. It's the bottom line. the dollar," Sam Bader, president of Bader Research Corp., a manage­ment consulting tlrm, said yesterday. "Of all the out-of-work ex­ecutives in the country today, I think he's the one getting the phone calls," Bader said. Agee. -tS, resigned Tuesday as president of Allied Corp. and chairman of Bendix Corp., effective june I. He will stay on Allied's board and come up for re-election at the annual meeting April 2'5. It was Agee who triggered the huge takeover battle that resulted in the merger of Bendix and Allied last month. Agee remained chairman ofBendix and became president ofAllied. -AP 
Twelve death row inmates at Indiana State 
Prison in Indianapolis have tiled a ft:deral suit asking that double­
ceiling he stopped because they fear for their safety "The plaintift~ 
are facing the ultimate and have no desire to spend the last possible 
days of our lives smelling tillll odors of another_man's body wastes 
and gases," the complaint said. "Plaintiffs have no desire to have to 
enter into possible contlict with another man because we differ on 
our standards of personal hygiene or cell neatness." fourteen of the 
I'5 men scheduled t(>r execution in the Michigan City prison are on 
death row. Jame~ Brewer of Gary is being held in the Indiana State 
Reformatory at Pendleton, where he has better access to dialysis 
treatment for a kidney ailment. Death row has 12 cells, hut one is 
unavailable for condemned prisoners because it serves as a law 
library and stqrage room. -AP 
General Motors Corp. said ye~terday in Detroit it will recall 2-lO,OOO of the .~20.000 front-wheel-drive X-cars that the federal government was investigating h>r possible brake detects. In a statement tlve davs hd(>re a government-ordered hearing on the brake problems, the No. I l '-· automakt·r said letters will he sent to owners of 20H,OOO 19HO-model Chc\Tolet Citation. Pontiac Phoenix, Oldsmobile Omega and Buick Skylark cars with manual transmissions built through the 19HO model vear. Also, (;,\1 will recall .-'>2,000 19HO models with automatic tran~missions built in the early 19HO model year run. the statement ~aid. :'llllTSA and (;.\1 have received several hundred complaints during the past three years from motorists who said the cars' brake~ have a tendency to lock prematurely, causing vehicles to go into dangerous spms. -AP 
Apresidential commissionstruggling to find a 
basing system ti>r the .\1X missile acceptable to both Congress and the Pentagon was given an extra month yesterday to search ti>r a consensus about the embattled nuclear weapon. ''I'm hopeful the commission will reach a consensus. hut I am not at the point of saying whether that will he possible," said Brent Scowcroft, head of the Commission on Stategic Forces. The 11-membcr panel, ap­pointedjan. .), was due to present its rec<.>mmendation~ to President Reagan on feb. IH. Scowcroft said the new deadline will be ncar the end of March, hut that the exau date was not fixed. lie said more time was needed to obtain information on technical is~ucs and to consult with Congres~. which ha~ rejected the two basing systems Reagan has proposed in the past. -AP 
Some people in Southwest Indiana are paying 
less than S I a gallon for gasoline now, and prices are expected to 
decline throughout the state until April, the Hoosier Motor Club 
says. Dealers operating with already-thin protlt margins appear to be 
cutting prices to move gasoline, said Hugh Orr ofthe Hoosier Motor 
Club in Indianapolis. "People are driving less with the economy the 
way it is, and right now there's a glut of gasoline throughout the 
world," he explained. "Prices probably will decline until April and 
then increase sporadically, but it's hard to predict," he added. "You 
can't go by tradition anymore." It's been three years since Hoosiers 
could buy gasoline for less than a dollar a gallon. But three Vincennes 
stations broke the barrier Monday by lowering their prices for self­
service regular to 98.9 cents a gallon. While self-serve stations in 
Evansville and nearby Henderson, Ky., aren't that low, their prices 
have softened this week. Stations along U.S. 41 between Evansville and Henderson were charging S1.049 Tuesday for self-serve regular, down I to.) cents from a week ago. In Evansville, several ofthe larger independents were charging $1.069, down a couple of pennies. ­
.4P 

Mostly cloudy today. Highs in low to mid 50s. Cloudy tonight with a .)0 percent chance of snow late. Lows in upper 20s. Cold t<>morrow with a chance ofsnow. Highs in low .)(b. -AP 
Thursday, February 10, 1983 -page 2 

Compromising for survival 
There is detlnitely ~omething to be said in defen~c of compromise. For too long, compromise has shbuldered the negative connotations of submission or backing down to another person or entity. Many people arc too proud or stubborn to even consider compromise. They would rather both parties end up with nothing at all rather than give up their deeply imbedded convictions. Often in these situations, personal pride bordering on bullheadedness takes precedence over common sense and rationality. 
But compromise, when skillfully practiced, can be a productive, effective and fult1lling exercise. Com· promise is not so much a learned behavior as it is an art form. When practiced by an accomplished artist, the results can be as satisfying and unique as a da Vinci painting. 
But in this tremendously disparate world of an· tagonistic political groups, communists and capitalists, terrorists and bourgeoisie, true compromise on sig· 
Michael Monk 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Thursday 

ferior and susceptible position to the aggressive Soviet Union. But even if the U.S. halted production of nuclear arms for an entire year while the Russians forged ahead, we would still possess enough firepower to annihilate the world dozens of times over. 
The principal consideration was whether we wanted to condone taking that tlrst step, going out on a some­what precarious limb, compromising just that little hit, in an attempt to initiate the scaling down of the arms 

nificant issues and problems race or if we wanted to ap­is about as rare as the Mona prove a status quo which has Lisa. yet to come close to 
One of the most volatile developing a serious arms contemporary issues where agreement. compromise is desperately Our position, as well as needed is nuclear arms. The the referendum itself, was insane arms race, combined largely a symbolic one. Cer­with strained international tainly no changes in tensions, has placed the American policy were to world in its most precarious result from the outcome of situation since Hitler rose to the vote. We tried to com­power 50 years ago. munciate through the 
Until relatively recently editorial that the time had those protesting the come for drastic measures development of nuclear to combat a drastic situa­arms were few in number tion. For years Russia and and politically liberal. But the U.S. have been negotiat­now, with almost one-third ing armaments treaties. In­of the government's budget stead of bringing the arms devoted to military outlays race under control, the race 

and increased awareness of the very real horrors of a limited or protracted nuclear war, political convictions are no longer relevant. Liberals, conservatives, moderates, and socialist alike are demanding a halt to this lunacy. The problem is just too enormous and threatening to allow conservative or liberal convictions to obstruct the path to controlling this situation. The problem is not one of political ideologies: it is one of survival. 
Last Monday The Obseruer took an unpopular stand at Notre Dame and endorsed the referendum for the uni­lateral freeze. We expected, and received, much criticism for this support. But the resolution was not hastily made and it certainly was a ditlicult one. The Editorial Board that made this decision includes several members who not too long ago would have expressed averse views to a unilateral freeze and who still harbor reservations about such an extreme measure. We are fully aware of the counterarguments to the freeze, mainly that it would place the U.S. in a dangt::rously in-has escalated at a frantic rate and shows no signs of abating. At the current talks in Geneva it could very easily take years to draft a verifiable treaty and that would probably he just as useless as the SALT treaties. 
Unless hell freezes over or Soviet Premier Andropov is converted to Catholicism, the Russians are not about to initiate any kind of a freeze, unilaterarl or bilateral. The U.S., as the self-proclaimed world leader and cham­pion offreedom, must take a stand now. With every day that the freeze is delayed. more nuclear weapons are deployed, more threat~ are hurled against each other, and the world slides closer to complete destruction. 
If there was ever a time for compromise, to make the tlrst move, the time is now. Of course, compro~mise also entails the other side making concessions. But if the Russians refuse to follow our lead, which is very likely, then we end the freeze and continue the arms race. But let's at least give it a chance. If we don't take the in· itiative in controlling the arms race now, we won't be around to regret the decision tomorrow. 

The Observer I 
/)esi~n Editor..... ............ Ken Ccrahona Design Assistant.. ............ :\1ary Healy 
Sarah Hamilton Luyout Staff.... .. .. . ............. Syhil Smoot TJ•pese/lers ......Jim & Tom .. I hate .~·inch paper" \1acl.ennan Neu.'S Editor... . .. ............lt"ll Harrington CofJJ' Editor.... ...... . ......... Tim :--ledv Features layout ~arah again (how rc.:-Oun­danll 
Editorials La)•out ... . .. Tari Brown 
.\jwrts CofJl' Editor Mik<' sullivan .'VI) fJUJ' Editor.... . .. Tim Peuc:r.-. S.tiC /Jm• Editor..... ........ Bruce Oakky 1)•pists ... . . . .. llt'tsv & Tari 
A.d Dest';{n.. .. . .. ........\1arilyn Larkm Photoxraphet .... . ....... llamil Cupero (,'uest Appearances.. Dzan·, Bruce. Ryan, !\olargratl, Monk, [)ennis & prohahly Jt·h will show up ar ·-t am or .-.o 
"()b to heyoung u•ben lot'e U'asfree. 
.or at least reasonable 

The Observer 1 USPS 598 9201 IS published Monday lhrough Fr~day and on home football Saturdays except dur~ng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS publiShed by the students of Notre Dame and Satnl Marys Col· lege Subscnpt,ons may oe purchased for $25 per year rStS per semester) by wr111ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The 
Associated Press All reproduCtion 
nghts are reserved 

Second class postage pa1d al Notre 
Dame lna1ana 46556 
After your lastexam, what toughquestions will you still be facing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. Foranyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers· One· Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact· Rev. Anure Leveille. C.S.C. Vocat1on Director Box 541 
Noire Dame. IN 46556 
219-239-6385 

---------· --------­
-

Thursday, February 10, 1983-page 3
The Observer 
Crowley lecture 
Bishop discusses layiDan's role 
By TIM BUCKLEY 
.Yews Stajf 
"In the area of bringing ethical principles to vocation ...we have fallen down." Although this would appear to he a pessimistic premhe, it was part of a positive forum held by South Bend Bishop Joseph Crowley last night. 
In its continuing series of lectures on contemporary issues, the Thomas More Society sponsored Crowley's lecture on "Vatican ll on the Layman's role in the professional world." 
Crowley traced the Catholic Church's evolution in the Americas, stating that· the original laity were "uneducated immigrants from abroad accompanied by priests ... Being the only educated man in the parish, the priest was the dominant figure in the church." He illustrated this point by repeating the old laity philosophy of"obey, pray, and pay." 
Although this was a deliberate ex­aggeration of the actual situation, Crowley pointed out, "lay activity is a new phenomenon in the church . . It was not until after World War II that lay people of Cat­holicism came out of our 'ghetto'." Reaching a pinnacle with Vatican Council II and tlnallv with "the elec­tion of John Kennedy, Catholics have now entered the mainstream of life." 
"The church is all of us baptized into It," said Crowley, emphasizing the laity's importance in Cardinal Newman's observation that "it would he a strange church without them." Since Vatican !I the laity have become much more active in the church. Lay people are now working in positions formerly unique to the clergy. In his opinion, this integra­tion of clergy and the laity has been highly successful. 
However, according to Crowley, "the test ofa good Catholic layman is what he's doing to bring Catholic et­hics and morals into his profession. This b the field where we've done the least ... I wonder how many so­called good Catholics stop to think about what principles are involved in their daily professional life." 
Crowley sees hope for Christian ethics in the professonal tlelds. "There is a growing interest in bring­ing moral principles into the profes­sions.... Good ethc~. must grow from good spiritual life and real faith. Faith is a gift which must be developed like any talent." 
He looks to institutions such as 
Notre Dame for leadership in this moral growth. ··The subject of moral professional ethics rarely comes up in secular and state universities. :\1any Catholic professionals are now products ofsecular institutions. It must begin in the Catholic col­leges and universities. There is a 

need for good moral ethics," he said. "We need men and women of motivation and prayer." 
"There are all kinds of training 
programs to teach lay people to 
work in the church, but we need it in 
the professions. I suppose it is up to 
the church to start seminars in the 
field, but there must also he some 
motivation. We have to have motiva­
tion, a good spiritual life, con­
fidence, and knowledge." 
Crowley praised organizations 
such as the Thomas :\1ore Society 
and Opus Dei for their interest in 
ethical professionalism. "Opus Dei is 
a group, primarily laity with some 
priests, banded together in the 
professions to bring Christian and 
moral principles to them ..a won­
derful idea." 
His outlook is one ofhope and op­
timism. He concluded hy suggt>sting 
to the individual Notre Dame stu­
dent to "read the works of Thomas 
More and take solid courses in theol­
ogy and philosophy" to achieve ethi­
cal maturity. 
73 years of service 

K of C carries on service tradition 
By MARY EASTERDAY scholarship fund in exchange," said Columbus is not nationally affiliated 
News Staff 
What is the only community service organization which has its own building? 
Which social service club on campus refuses women members? 
What NO organization can boast a membership of I,200 after 73 years ofservice? 
The only organization which qualifies for all of the above is the Notre Dame Council of the Knights ofColumbus. 
Located next to the bookstore, the Knights of Columbus is able to support its own building. There is no other organization that has the income to pay for the maintenance and upkeep of a building, according to Thomas Mason, University vice president for business affairs. He added that no other organization has the money to establish a S500,000 scholarship fund, which the Knights ofColumbus did in 1969. 
The Council's original home was the basement of Walsh Hall. Eli Shaheen, one of the original mem­bers of the Knights ofColumbus and later the financial secretary of the Notre Dame Council, began invest­ing money in a building fund in the 1930's. By 1969, there was S625,000 collected. 
In 1969 the post oftlce moved to its current location, and Father Theodore Hesburgh, Cniversity president, allowed the organization to have access to the building. 
"We took the money they had saved for a building to establish the 
STUDENT DISCOUNT 


e~~ ~ 19 ~~1\1~ 
20 0/0 OFF 
STUDENT DISCOUNT w/Student I.D. Offer not valid with any 

other Aurelio's special discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 
Mason. and the Notre Dame Council ha~ on­
Another question that has only lv 1 5 members. arisen in the last few years is why . "I wanted to join the Knights of women cannot join the Knights of Columbus because I feel they work Columbus. for a lot of worthy causes. It's time 
The University of Notre Dame for them to change and they're not began as a fraternal institution long changing," Smith said. before the Knights of Columbus. The Notre Dame Knights of But, unlike the University, the Columbus, despite minor contlicts, Knights of Columbus tradition to al­continues to be strongly dedicated low only Catholic men over the age to community service. The K of C of 18 has not changed. raises funds for charitable causes, 
"It has been a tradition for over and is perhaps best known for its 100 years. For that reason alone, I steak sandwich sales on home foot­agree with it," McCann said. ball Saturdays, the proceeds of 
A Notre Dame freshman woman which go to Corvilla House, a home does not hold this same view. for the mentally retarded. Cecelia Smith tried to sign up for the Knights of Columbus members Knights of Columbus earlier this also volunteer on Sundays at Dor-a­year at Activities Night. "They told Lin Nursing Home, assist at the me I couldn't join and directed me Council for the Retarded's Saturday toward the sign-up ~heet for the morning recreation program, tutor Ladies ofColumbus:: Smith said. children in the South Bend area, 
"Although the Ladies ofColumbus work at Corvilla House, and help the works closely with the Knights of Volunteer Services Office in tlnding Columbus, they did not seem well volunteers for special request organized," Smith said. The Ladies of projects. 
Van Lines Customers 
Service as Usual this Weekend 
Except Friday Only 
The 8:00pm run will go to the South Shore Station 
• 

Runs to Malls Fridays 6, 7, 9, 10, & 11 Saturday' 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, & 11 
1PW:M~q
~ KEENAN LEWIS PE 
IN COOPERATION WITH HOWARD HALL PRESENT... 
A Speeial Valentine's Day 
CHANCE TO DANCE 
FRIDAY, FEB. 11 9:30 to 1:30 
La Fortune Ballroom DJ, Refreshments, & 

Rh:R;R~Z~!~ 
Seniors! 
Help make the SENIOR ARTS FESTIVAL a reality. If you wish to help organize the festival, if you have ideas about the planning of events, or if you want to publicize a 
* Recital 
*Reading *Concert *Acting or 
Directing Piece 


* Exhibit or other art happening 
involving members of Notre Dame's Class of 
'83 

Please Call Theresa at6773 
or the Student Union Cultural Arts Commission at 239-5283 
Seniors, We Need You! 

The Observer Thursday,· February 10, 1983 page 4 




r.2~!r,!!J~~~L 
SZECHUAN -CAIITDNESE-AMERICAN 
CHUCK WHITE 
* *
Al The Piano Bar 
See Chuck Enr~ Tues. thru Sat. 
8:011 p.m.-1:011 a.m.....Enjoy Life! 
•Dancing•Drinks•Dinger 
•Hospitality•Reasooa~e Price' 
HAPPY CHINESE NEW YEAR 
New Year's Special $7.95 includes 
Wine, Egg drop soup, Eggro/1. 
Happy Family meal & Ice Cream. ll.:ii'===' 
Valentine's Day Special, Monday, Feb.14. 
HOURS: OPEN 7 DAYS 
I!,. 
Mon.-Thur 11:30a.m.-10:00p.m. AWEEK ... 
cri. & Sat. 11:30 a.m.-11:00 p.m. 130 OlliE HWY. SOUTH 
Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 
Happy Hour 5· 7 P M SOUTH BENO(Roseland) 
BANQUET ROOMS & Next to Randall'-: h:,, 
G:~~r~:rrs 272-7376 
X-LARGE 17 in 

FREE DELIVERY
Cheese Pizza 

Jnltslt Jrinrt (iJJtria 
18061 South Bend Ave. 
$6.79 
extra ingredients 85' 
COUPON EXP 2/14/83 '272-8030 
FINAL FIVE DAYS 
By PETER CIOTTA 
News Staff 
Labelling a fellow anthropologist a "self-righteous crusader." a col­league of Margaret Mead defended her work against accusations published in this week's issue of Time magazine. 
Robin Fox, on campus today to speak on "The Unity of Mankind: the Disunity of Anthropolgy", said in an interview yesterday that anthropologist Derek Freeman's at­tack chronicled in Time was unjus­titit'd. 
Freeman claims that Margaret Mead's best seller "Coming ofAge in Samoa" may he "one ofthe great acts 
of selfdelusion  in  the annals  of  
science."  
Fox  responded,  "Freeman  

trivializes the issue by taking it out of context and making it a personal 
MEDIUM 14in Cheese Pizza 
$4.71 
extra ingredients 62' 
COUPON EXP 2/14/83 FINAL FIVE DAYS 

r------------------------------------,
: Makes any : : other bar : 1 look like 1 
I • I 
I 'Rott'Pcz,. RoO/)) I 
I I 

: Lowest liquor prices in town!! 
I I 

24 oz glass of any draft beer $1.10
1 

I --_------­I Mon.· Thurs. SPECIAL for any N D-SMC students: 
: Pitchers of beer $2.00 & $2.50 


1 --------­
I  ND-SMC night is TUESDAY with  
:  FREE popcorn and beer specials  
I  - C{;'rnerot lrOiW.toOdand'Misha;aka A;­ - 

Fox lecture today 

Anthropologist defends Mead 
i I 
: 
I I 
1 
I I 
: 
I 
I : 
I 
L--··•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••J 
,---r r 
\ 
I 
I ~.o 1<~t o 
I tANK4~1/t I \ ,c.· ~t t~e II 

·~ 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the Terrace Lounge at the South Bend Marriott! South Bend's largest 
34 oz. tankard of beer is only 
$4.00 
and YOU KEEP THE SOUVENIR GLASS TANKARD! Refills every weekday from 4-7 p.m. (on Thursdays until closing) are just $2.00! 
.y
}
~ The Place to Be! 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
issue. To turn the issue into a game of cops and robbers is to miss the point. To understand why Mead saw things as she did is of importance." 
Mead, as reported in Time, depicted Somoan culture as one of ovenvhelming ease and casualness marked by an absence of deep feelings, loose family ties, no guilt and little contlict. Somoans condoned free love among adoles­cents, Mead said, with result that adolescent turmoil was unknown. 
"It is too simple to say that Mead just botched things up," said Fox. "This is a case where ideology acted to dominate science, which in turn int1uenced the facts. Mead's ideas about cultural determinism wer.e in­volved in an ideological debate, nature vs. nurture." 
At the time of Mead's research in Samoa, the Eugenicist movement was gaining strength in support of select breeding as a means to produce a superior race. explained Fox. Margaret Mead was sent to Samoa to disprove the claims of the Eugenicists in 1925, under the direction of Professor Franz Boas of Columbia llnivcrsity, the most famous anthropoligist in America at the time. "Mead's work under Boas was an ideological necessity to com­hat the movement of Eugenics. Mead wasn't fooled, she didn't look t()r other things that had no impor­tance in terms oi Boas' theories. She was totally sincere about her work -yes, she did look for a particular view -yet she was quite young and had no path to follow. She was a pioneer in her tldd. Mead wanted to show that the better race was not bred hut affected by their environ­ment," said Fox. 
"Freeman's remarks are another nail in the coffin which already has a lot ofnails in it. Margaret Mead was a lively and bright intelli~ence. She was remarkably honest. She was shaken by Freeman. She admits she was naive and intluenced by Boas greatly, yet she went to Samoa at an early age with sincere intentions." 
Fox noted, "Freeman was not prepared to be judicious; Mead is either right or wrong, good or bad (to Freeman)." 
Fox will speak this afternoon in the Library Auditorium at .3::'>0. 


A Touch ofIreland 
CLADD.Lt\.GH 
Rings • Pendants • Pins 
A GIFT OF LOVE FOR MORE THAN 400 YEARS 
AGUINAS 
BOOK SHOP LEARNING AIOS CENTER 435 S. MICHIGAN STREET SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46601 Telephone 219/287-1091 


PIZZA 
PHONE 232-1883 _.....FREE DELIVER¥­
Sun -Thurs 4-11pm Fri & Sat 4-1am We Accept Student Checks 


1 ---------------COUPON 1
I $1.00 offany 14" Pizza I 
I $2.00 ott any 16" Pizza I 
I EXPIRES MARCH 1 I 
L----------------~ 
• • .PACE 
continuedfrom fJll!f.e I 
..md a word processor," Seckinger '>aid. 
According to Seckinger, the school received a grant to furni~h a mock courtroom ~everal years ago. The propo~ed. addition would in­cludt· such a facilitv. 
"We otfer the be~t trial advocacy course~ in the countrv. Acourtroom setting is reallv es~ential to these 
~kinds of courses." said Link. The room could abo be used ti>r large classes, which now have to meet in the flave~-flealv Auditorium. The proposal's future hinge~ on monev. The man responsible for locating funding for l'niversitv projects is Michael .\lancuso, direc­tor of the Development Ofticc. "Some ideas suggest it ''viii cost about S3 million. I'm not sure what the t1nal tlgure will come to. "It's on our list of high priority projects; however right now we don't have any concrete funding. I'd like to see one donor cover the entire thing," ~aid Mancuso. Almost 'iOO students arc presently enrolled at the Law School. Link does not forsce any increase from this level. "The addition would al­low us to reclaim parts of the library that we've had to fill with other operations such as :\:ITA. In fact, we would have addditional library space in the new area." "By pouring money into this place, you could really see the results fast because we're small and don't have a lot of hierarchy. First you need the facilities and the endowment; then vou can attract the best talent," said Seckinger. 
• • . Mardi 
continuedfrom page I 
visible. The way to get it to catch on is to let people know about it." The dance was held at the ACC last year. 
Mardi Gras revenue totaled nearly S"',OOO. Seventy percent of the money will go directly to a number of charities under a new system of disbursement. Sellers ofraftle tickets were allowed to name which cause they wanted to help. Those receiv­ing aid include CILA, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, Head Start, the World Hunger Coalition, and Sr. :\1arita's Primary Day School. 
The remaining 30 percent of the revenue will go toward funding next vear's activities. 
... Elections 
continuedfrom pa?,e I 
"no," or "abstain" in the student of­ficers elections. Hocter's ticket must garner a majority of "yes" votes in order to officially win the election. 
In case Hocter does not win a majority, "a new open election would take place," according to Monica Gugle, election commis­sioner. 
In last year's unopposed ekction, the ticket of current Student Body President Kathleen Murphy earned 90 percent of the vote. 
LaM year 'i8 percent of the Saint \laf)·'s student body participated in the elections. 
LEAVE THE 

ENTERTAI~MENT 
TOUS! Omeoa Produr ions. Inc. is ~ow opening their :vtobile ;vtusic Di' i!>ion. Wt: can providt: any type 
of  music  for  an'  type  
of event.  Par: ies  are  our  
specialtv.  Cu •orr  nu~ic  

programming a. ·:liable Call 684-8101 ;,wj ask su~an L)r Brad for details. 
The Observer Thursday, February 10, 1983 page 5 
The Oar House Cold Beer& Liquor Carry Out Til!3am 
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
EVERY DAY 
2 for 1 Drinks 4-7 
w1th Homemade Food & Snacks 
"Snake Bite" Specia/ ... $1 every Thursday 
r-w~~~i~ht-offit;~;;rt;1 
I •.~-~ Haircut, Shampoo, I I ~~-~~:tti ". Blow Dry, & Condition I I ·· I
~ Reg.$15 
54533 Terrace Lane, S.B. 

N $8 SQ I
IAcross from Martin's on St. Rd.23 QW . WITH COUPON 
1 H . t I $6 1
Tues. Wed, Sat 8.30-5.30 wiTH Thur,Fri8:30-8:30 aucu on y couPON. 
I 272-0312 277-1691 I
HAIR MUST BE WASHED DAY OF CUT 
~---------------­
-----------------------------~ 
The Notre Dame Student Union 

is searching for 
nextyea~sleaders 
Applications for Student Union Director and Comptroller for '83-'84 are now available from the Student Union secretary Get Involved and Make a Difference 



JAZZ at the NAZZ! Friday, Feb. 11 Saturday, Feb. 12 Featuring: Joe Corpora 9-10:30 Whirlwind 9-10:30 -Comedian 1st NO Jazz Combo 10:30 Dan Brauweiler & Mark Luchini 10:30 -Guitar & Vocal  
A NEW SERVICE FROM YOUR STUDENT UNION Bus Transportation from N D/SMC to the South Shore Station. Friday Feb. 11 Sunday Feb. 13 Trains arrive at South Shore 7:50 ND Main Circle at 7:10 & 9:05pm.8:00 SMC Holy Cross Bus will be there to Transport 8:20 South Shor.e Stn. Students back toND/SMC. 8:35 Train Departs Regular 8pm Van Lines will not run. FORONLY$1 EACH WAY  

Notre Dame Law School Expansion 
mock courtroom. offices, and llll expanded library• are features ofthe proposed Lau• School ex­pansion. Tbe structure u•ould extend ji·om the
Proposed
N 

south side of the present
t 
Addition 

buildin?, (pictured 
a/Jot•e). 
Instit11te trains attorneys 
In a maze of oft'ices on the third tloor of the :\otre Dame Law School b the home of the :\ational Institute for Trial AdnH.:acv (NITA). Although :\·ITA's presenu.:: on campus 1s a quiet une. nation· all\' it enjov~ a goud reput~ttion anlllng L,tw1-ers. 
Founded in Il)-2, :\ITA's stated purpose i~ "to contribute to the development ol an adequatell trained. proles~onallv responsible tri­al bar." 
"Through programs 111 sl'l't:ral parts or the countn. we help trial lawyers imprm e their ~kills." saidJames Seckingn. :\ITA director. In addition to his:\ ITA duties. ~eckinger teaches a half-load 111 the Law School, a position he held hdore becoming:\ITA director. 
The Institute b funded h1· tuition. donations. grant~. and sales ofits publicatons. Since moving to :\otre Dame. when Seckinger wa~ named its director,:\ IT.-\ has expanded se1-eral times. 
I Taking the South Shore to 

Business & Technology Thursday, February 10, 1983 ­
page 6 

Wall Street Update . Twelfth year 
The stock market declined moderately yesterday, ad­


Students lend tax assistance 
ding to its losses of the previous session. The DowJones average of 
30 industrials, off 11.77 Tuesday, fell another 7.91 to 1,067.42. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange reached 84.52 million shares, up from 76.58 million Tuesday. Consolidated Edison of New York led the active list, off at 19 in trading that included a 975,000 sac block at that price. Nationwide turnover in NYSE-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled I 00.41 million shares. Standard & Poor's index of 400 industrials lost .68 to 163.38, and S&P's 500­stock composite index was down .70 at 145.00. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index rose 1.21 to 37053. The NASDAQ composite index for the over-the-counter market closed at 251.38, up .28. -AP 




"·...:::~:!:~rothers: 
\\'e offer the opportunity for Teaching and Pao.;toral l\llnistry with life in community. \\'e are men seeking God through 
+ shared life t shared prayer t shared ministry 
This is our ehallenge: 
Fc1r nHtrc tnfcJrtnuth.n \\'fltc to: Rev. Gene Gries, O.Praem. Vocation Director SL :'i"orbert Abbey De Pere, Wisconsin .'>4115 
:'\umt· Adrlre""" 
Zip ____
C!r,. State 
.\g..· Completed lligh Sch<x>l College 
Applications for 
Editor-In-Chief of the 1984 Dome Yearbook 
Available NOW in the 
Student Activities Office, 1st Floor La Fortune. 
Must be completed & returned to the Student Activities Office by 

Monday, February 21. 

By ALEX SZILV AS B&TEditor . 
The Notre Dame Tax Assistance Program (TAP) began its twelfth year of providing free tax return preparation for low-income Mic­hiana residents this week. 
The program is administered entirely by Notre Dame students un­der the supervision of faculty ad­visor Dr. Kenneth Milani. Since its inception in 1972, TAP has grown remarkably. Students involved with the program last year tlled more than 1,700 returns which generated in excess of 5300,000 in refunds for area residents. 
According to Chairperson Laurie Cuffe, the program is still expanding. "In the past we have provided service for taxpayers earning less than $18,000 per year," she said. "We are now handling returns for the unemployed as well." 
TAP is staffed by fifty seniors in the College of Business Administra­tion. All have successfully com-


pleted the Introduction to Federal 
Taxation course. "They have been 
trained according to Internal 
Revenue Service publications," 
Cuffe noted, "with an emphasis on 
those particular situations they can 
expect to face." 
The program operates out of thir­
teen centers in South Bend, Misha­
waka, and the campuses of Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's. The centers are 
open at various times during the 
week through Friday, April 15. 
The Notre Dame Center is located in the Rathskeller of Lafortune Stu­dent Center and is open Wednes­days from 2 to 5 p.m. The St. Mary's Center, located in the lobby of McCandless Hall, is open Mondays from 2:30 to 5 p.m. The Downtown Library (Saturdays from 9:30a.m. to 
12:30 p.m.) and the Hansel Center (Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5 to 8:30p.m.) also have Certified Public Accountants or professors available for consultation. 
A unique feature of the Notre Dame TAP is the two SWAT (Students Working At Taxation) teams. SWAT I provides tax return preparation for eligible residents in Rochester and Plymouth. SWAT II responds to calls from handicapped individuals and others who are unable to seek help from the TAP centers. These SWAT teams high­light an important goal of the program -to go directly inro the low income neighborhoods to provide help rather than merely set­ting up centers on campus. 
Although students receive one credit-hour for their participation, Cuffe stresses other reasons for in­volvement in the program. "It offers a great opportunity to put classroom accounting into practice, while also providing exposure to the problems of many individuals that students don't normally encounter." 
Social Security bill rescued 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A house 
subcommittee  wound  up  its  
hearings  on  the  Social  Security  
rescue  bill  yesterday,  but  a  

Democratic leader cautioned that the S168 billion package to save the benefit system from default still was not assured ofpassage. 
Despite an accelerated legislative pace. House Democratic Whip Thomas S. Foley of Washington told reporters, "I don't think the matter is all wrapped up, packaged and delivered." 
A house Ways and Means subcom­mittee was waiting for a revised forecast from the Social Security Ad­ministration on the system's outlook for the rest ofthis decade. 
Rep. J.). Pickle, D-Texas, chairman of the Social Security subcommittee, has said he is worried that the bailout plan -which would save the system Sl68 billion over seven years and wipe out two-thirds of its long-run deficit -might still leave the system vulnerable to a shortfall in the mid-1980s. 
Several witnesses before the sub­committee also warned that calcula­tions on Social Security's debts did . not tell the full extent ofthe system's financial troubles. 
The rescue plan includes a six­month freeze on benefits and a tax on some retirees' benefits, as well as higher payroll taxes. Most ofthe wit­nesses before the full Ways and Means Committee or the subcom­mirtee during seven days ofhearings endorsed the compromise. 




Editorials 
Thursday, February 10, 1983-page 7 
Welcome to network 'sweep' month 
I hope you don't have much 10 do this month. And so do the networks. In fact, NBC, ABC, and CBS are belling big dollars that you don't. 
February is what's known in the business as "sweeps month." November, May, and July are sweeps months as well, but none of those hanles are waged as fiercely as February is. 
But all of this will be remedied. CBS will 
atone for the aggregate sins of its competitors 
in this sweeps. All of this madness will con­
clude with the tina! episode ofMA5H, "Good­
bye, Farewell, Amen." 

Not that CBS is totally above reproach. It will, after all continue to bring us the mindless Dukes ofHazard, and treat America to a radi­cally censored I 0. 
hope it improves. But so far, it looks like ABC has bitten off more than it could chew. 
CBS is in the driver's seat. Even a rating vic­tory such as the one turned in by Roots ­another ABC February mini-series -would not boost ABC past CBS for the overall ratings championship. The older network has been too strong throughout the rest of the year. 
If you are one of the lucky ones, and have little to do this month, you are in for some excellent viewing. however. Star Trek: The li-fovie, andZorro: The Gay Blade will come !l, the small screen. Ex-Angels Cheryl Ladd and .Jadyn Smith star in The Grace KelZv Story, and Rage ofAngels, respectively. 
And there is always.'IHSH. 
Skip Desjardin On the Media In a sweeps month, Arhitron and Nielson survey the American public to find out which network they watch -and when. The results of these ratings determine the rate networks can charge for advertising in the upcoming year. A single rating poi(1t can be worth mil­lions in ad revenues. So, we have been treated to an encore per­formance ofShogun, one of the real triumphs of the mini-series genre. But we have also been subjected, to The Kid With the 200 IQ ori the same network. So far, we have been bored to death by mediocre acting in the highly-touted Winds of War.. Ali McGraw andjan-Michael Vincent seem to he reading every line ofa cue card.  NBC is the early winner in the mid-winter fracas. The tlrst episode of Shogun outdrew CBS's popular Monday night line-up, and gave ABC a run for it's money as well. . NBC executives are hoping that Americans, who just spent several consecutive nights watching the japanese epic, will not want to commit another whole week to ABC's drawn­out World War II drama. They are getting help, at least in the early episodes, from Winds itself. At S40 million, the show cost the same as Warren Beatty's motion picture Reds -though I kick myself for mentioning both in the same paragraph. Winds took over a year to tllm. The big-time bombing of Pearl Harbor sequence was shot in a day and a half, however, and the rest ofthe show look~ like a hastily thrown together excuse for more than three hours ofcommer­cials. It is an ambitious project, to be sure, and I  SEARCHING FOR MR. 600DPARTY  
P.O. BoxQ  
St. Mary's apathy Dear Editor: As concerned members of the Saint Mary's Community, we are responding to the February 8 article, "Apathy, Sheep and Rhetoric," written by Ryan Ver Berkmoes, Managing Editor and that issue's Editorial, "Obsemer endorses Saint Mary's Only Ticket." We recognize a certain amount of apathy does exist on the Saint Mary's campus, includ­ing in student government; however, the editors draw a general conclusion of apathy on the Saint Mary's campus based upon the panicipation in only two student body elec­tions. This is an unfair assumption. Student government is only one part of student par­ticipation. Do not overlook numerous Saint Mary's students who participate in the accounting club, campus ministry, social ac­tion club, swim team ...). Certainly, these students deserve credit for their involvement in our community and should not be regarded as apathetic. We realize the limited options presented to the Saint Mary's students by the one student body ticket; however, the editors fail to recognize those who considered running for student body positions. They negate the fact that competition does exist for Saint Mary's women who have the option to run (including write-ins) and have the present op­tion to vote yes, no or abstain on the Hocter ticket. As student government members, we are active representatives ofour College, who af­fect both directly and indirectly the actions and thoughts of our peers, faculty and ad­ministration. Thus, to suppose that "no one else cares to get involved in a job that they s~ as having little power or influence" is an inap­propriate assumption. An "in" group of student government leaders does not exist on this campus. Those who choose to continue with student govern­ment remain, while new individuals continue to accept the the challenge. Yours in Saint Mary's Kathleen Murphy and I I student goz,'t members  ser :s reporting on the controversy over would be to regard it as a form ofinitiation ora r ,sica! versus cultural determinism rite de passage. Whereas we specialists inVoting example surrounding the work of the late Margaret such events usually expect them to engage Mead, perhaps a crude claritkation drawn more fully the imagination, even giving rein to Dear Editor: along those lines will suffice. the exotic, a little ritual drama, perhaps, Tuesday, '1.9 percent of the Notre Dame If, on the one hand, we adopt nature or biol­masks, chants, chemical stimulants, or at least women who live on campus voted to con· ogy as our point ofdeparture, one inviting ex­a little ceremonial abstinence or license, tinue the FLOC boycott. No women's dorm planation is an analogy to the behavior of depending on taste, we remain open to the fell below a 61.9 percent support of the some earlier anthropoid, a Neanderthal, for possibility that the new symbols are invented boycott. Badin registered 77. I percent. example. Barely having crossed the critical to suit new situations. Only 47.5 percent of voting, on-campus threshold of human intelligence, familiar only Hence. that rare and beguiling concession, men favored FLOC. The low for the men was with crudely fashioned, blunt tools, and considering the source, that "hockey" may 23.9 percent while Alumni ( 57.4) registered knowledgeable only of a limited simple ter­not be "as important as anthropology" might the highest percentage for men's halls. rain, this barely recognizable ancestor ofours well constitute an efficacious and aut­44.7 percent of the women favored the uni­might easily stray and knuckle-walk into a horitative ritual formula, which in the old lateral freeze. Badin had the high with 51.4 camp of refined and fully evolved homo literature used to he called a "magic spell". percent. The low was 38.4 percent. Only 32.2 sapiens. Frightened and confused upon The effect of the pronouncement within the percent of the men favored the freeze. The seeing the manners and implements of nas­rite is to mark a social transition, to establish men's range was 20.5 to Cavanaugh's 43.7 per­cent civilization, the Neanderthal, reverting or validate new sets of relationships, a new cent. to apish instinct, lunges for the one he takes to legal and e.;:onomic status. Far he it from me to criticize the reaction­be the smallest and youngest member. But From this perspective, the left-handed tone ary male population on campus. Instead I'd here the primordial troglodyte demonstrates of the remark is correctly identified as irony, like to congratulate the women who seem to again those qualities that led to his extinction and our part in the ceremony is to modestly have focused more on the human issues. despite superior size and strength. For accept this acclaim, assuring all that we shall Most importantly, though, I want to strong­throughout the history of our species, raw aspire to live up to the new stature conferred ly encourage Saint Mary's women to vote animal muscle has proved to be subordinate by this recognition. Also, we add with the reciprocity of sportsmen, we acknowledgepositively as their Notre Dame counterparts to the agility of the human mind. our continuing interest in hockey, both as anhave. In other words, the inconsistency Sports II-. I hope that they vote to break the circle of athletic contest and as a metaphor and sur­lustrated pretends to expose on the part of fear in which the U.S. is now embroiled. I hope rogate for cold wars both on the global andadministrators who "willingly operate the that they vote YES for the unilateral freeze. local scale. depanment at a substantial 'loss"' turns out in Tom Ryan fact to be its first reference to the fastest Finally, since we in no way anticipated this College ofArts and Letters growing department in the College ofArts and timely public testimony to our presence and letters and one of the university's latest promise by a prestigious publication, we have milestones toward academic excellence. already committed considerable resources to The myopic scorn lurking behind this slug­an Inaugural Lecture Series which begins on gish attempt to use the anthropology depart· Feb. I0. As the first of several renownedSI publicity ment as the club with which to direct some anthropologists to visit our campus in-coming DearEditor: high-sticking at the athletic oftice fails altoget­months, Robin Fox, Professor at Rutgers Uni­Sports Illustrated has recently singled out her to comprehend that it has been anthropol­versity and author ofnumerous books, includ­our anthropology department for a very spe­ogy's formitable quality and increasing ing his latest The Red Lamp of Incest, will cial distinction. In the issue of Feb. 7, a quantity that led to its autonomy. It split from speak on "The Unity ofMankind: The Disunity mediocre anicle that decried the downgrad­the combined sociology and anthropology ofAnthropology." His visit which will include Ing of the hockey program uses this depart­department only this year. Could this be a few days of meetings with interested stu· ment to take a sidelong swing at those who evidence that the "fierce bottom-line men­dents and faculty apart from the public make decisions regarding athletic priorities. tality" that the Sports Illustrated article lecture, represents our innocent and meager As a branch of learning, anthropology en­ascribes to other might not also reveal their attempt to announce the department's com­deavors to study all that is human. It therefore own stage ofevolution? ing of age. We salute Sports Illustrated for its can evoke numerous methods for the ex­On the other hand, if we adopt culture as somewhat distorted by much appreciated ad­amination of this intriguing rhetorical our chief reference point, one available ex­vance gesture ofaffirmation. specimen. Since, however, for the entire pa."t planation for the circuitous allusion to our Patrick D. Gaffney, CSC week The .Veu• York Times has featured a fledgling department by the colossus ofsports Dept. ofAnthropology  

Jh~~r============ Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief. ............................. Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello 
The Obsemer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager....................... Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of eit~er institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMC Executive Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorial~ represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris :--leedles Circulation Mcmager ...................... Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems ,,tanager...........................Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Culumn space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ..................... joseph:\1usumeci
and the free expression ofvaryingopinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966
(219) 239-5303 

The Observer Sports Special -Irish vs. Tech Thursday, February 10, 1983 page 8 


Notre Dame/ Louisiana Tech 
GAME: Notre Dame vs. Louisiana Tech University 
SITE: The Athletic and Convocation Center 
TIME: 7:30p.m. EST Friday, Feb. 11, 1983
•. 
SERIES: First meeting. 
COACHES: For Notre Dame, Head Coach Mary DiStanislao, 40-33 in third year at ND, 130-58 career. For Louisiana Tech, co-Head Coaches Sonja Hogg and Leon Barmore; Hogg 238-47 in ninth year at Tech, Barmore 21-1 in first year. 
RANKINGS: ( AP) Louisiana Tech No. 1, Notre Dame unranked 
TICKETS: Students admitted free with ID. 

14-6 
THE FIGHTING IRISH 
POS NO PLA YEA  HT PPG CL  
F  22 Shari Matvey  6-1  9.2 Sr.  
25 Ruth Kaiser  6-1  6.8 So.  
13 TrenaKeys  6-1  111 Fr  
12LynnEbben  5-11  82Fr.  

c 20 Mary Beth Schueth 6-0 12.6 So. 42 Came Bates 6-1 6.4 So 32 Jenny Klauke 5-10 3.2 Jr 
G 21 Debbi Hensley 5-6 0.9 ~r. 23 Laura Dougherty 5-10 11.2 So. 33 Den1se Basford 5-9 26 Fr. 24 Theresa Mullins 5-6 11 Jr 10 Jan1ce Monagle 5-5 0.5 So 15 Lisa Brown 5-5 0 3 Fr 
21-1 
THELADYTECHSTERS 

POS NO PLAYER HT PPG CL 
F 25 Lori Scott 5-10 12.4 Sr. 44 Debra Rodman 6-2 13.8 Jr. 21 Kay Konerza 5·11 2 3 Fr 
c 51 Janice Lawrence 6-3 19.9 Jr. 50 T1a Sossamon 6-2 9 7 Sr 
G 20 Kim Mulkey 5-4 6.6 Jr. 15 Jennifer White 5-9 6.1 Sr. 22 Pam Gant 5-7 84 So 10 Julie Wilkerson 5-8 1 6 Sr 13 V1Ck1e Green 5-7 21 Fr 34 Debb1e Pnmeaux 5-4 0.7 Jr 

Bringing up baby 
Notre Dame sets out on the Techster's road ... Destination: title 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Writer 
This story begins more than a decade ago, when women were first admitted to the University of Notre Dame. 
The University, whose athletic tradition had already been mythologized by books and a movie, decided to take its time in allowing its women to become part of that athletic heritage. 
After all, how could a female athlete be molded into the image ofK.nute Rockne? 
Then came Title IX, the It aw that mandated equality in educational opportunities for women. Part of the rule required that the budget for women's sports be equal to the budget for men's non-revenue sports. 
The women's basketball program was born. 
As with most newly-formed programs, women's bas­ketball started out i~ Division III. And, despite an ab­sence of scholarships, the program became very successful. 
A few years later, after their 20-10 team had been eliminated in the round of 16 of the 19HO AlAW tourna­ment, Shari Matvey, Maggie Lally, and Missy Conboy lis­tened as their coach, Sharon Petro, announced that the Division lli Irish would be moving up to the big league, Division I, the next time they took the court. 
And that the next time they took the court, they would have a new coach. 
Marv DiStanislao, who had taken the basketball progr;m at Northwestern from nowhere to status as the huh of one of the nation's strongest women's athletic programs, had been hired to write the Notre Dame women into the book on Notre Dame "tradition." 
It was not an casv task. 
"It's a different 'sort of situation." says DiStanislao when comparing her new task to her Northwestern joh. "Notre Dame has a great name to recruit for, but, then again, everybody is gunning for you. You don't have the advantage ofanonymity." 
Building a new program at a university like Notre Dame also provided a challenge for men's coach Digger Phelps, who, as coordinator of varsity basketball, had to take on a new marketing challenge. 
"I think that women's basketball has the potential to become a big spectator sport," said Phelps. "They play a different brand of basketball (from the men's game), hut it's everv hit as exciting at it's highest level." 
The 19HO:H 1 season marked more than Notre Dame's first year in Division I, though. It also marked the first of two const~cutivc national championships for a small technical university which was founded among the oil and gas fields ofno~thern Louisiana-Louisiana Tech. 
Nine years ago, Louisiana Tech's athletic tradition consisted ofone quarterback -Terry Bradshaw. 
At that time, a physical education teacher at LTll, Sonja Hogg, 't"as given a few bucks and asked to put together a ba~ketball team for Tech's few coeds. 
Her tlrst team went 1.)-9 against a schedule made up entirely of teams from Louisiana. Since then, Hogg and the Ladv Techsters have become the most dominating ti:>rce in.women's basketball. In fact. it could be the most dominating basketball team since the Walton era at UCLA. 
flow did the Tech program get so far? 
"I was so scared in 1974, hut we were respectable in our first year," says llogg. "Then, through sheer deter· min at ion and hard work, we were able to get a lot ofthe best young ladies in the country to join the program." 
Tech's rise to power was not meteoric. It took tlvc years of hard work before Hogg's squad reaped the benefits. Hogg remembers the moment that rhc Lady Techsrers became a national power. 
"We arrived in 1979, when we upset liCI.A in LA," remembers Hogg. "When we first broke into the Top Ten. pt•ople thought we were an overnighr success. 
"But, you know, that's never the case. lr took a long time ro get where we arc now, not to mention a lot of work from a lot ofpeople." 
Hogg feels that hiring Leon Barmore as an assistant was the turning point ti:>r Louisiana Tech women's bas­ketball. Barmore was brought in ro write the X's and O's; he is the tactician in LTU's unique co-coaching scheme. , 
''I'm here to teach the game and to work out the strategies on the sidelines," says Barmore, in his fifth year at Louisiana Tech, but only his first as co-head coach. "I'm grateful to Sonja for elevating me to this position. It's a pretty successful partnership, as you can 
tell." Hogg makes the schedule, attends the conventions, does the recruiting, and is the spokeswoman for the Ladv Techster~. 
"Originally, I was coach, momma, bottle washer and all," says llogg. "Now with Leon and (Assistant Coach) Gary (Blair) available to help in so many areas, I have become more of an administrator for our entire 
women's program. I guess now I spend more time as a 
recruiter, goodwill ambassador, administrator. and 
counselor. 
"I don't believe there is a better coach anywhere 
(than Barmore). This thing (developing the program) 
has been a team effort all the way and he has done a 
tremendous job." 
The Lady Techstcrs, under Hogg, have become more 
than a women's basketball team. In Ruston, a town 
which doubles in size when LTll is in session, the 
Tcchsters arc a civic resource, much like the symphony 
of a Boston or the fine restaurants of a New Orleans. 
Their games are big time in Ruston. The women are 
celebrities. Kim Mulkey, Louisiana Tech's 5-4 
sparkplug, is as recognizable in downtown Ruston as 
7-0 Patrick Ewing would be in Washington. 
"I came to Tech because the Ladv Techsters had built 
such a tradition," says Mulkey, a· native of northern 
Louisiana. "The program has the support of the com­
munity, the faculty and the student body. Also, the 
coaching staff pushes the players to become the best 
they can become and sec that the players fit in our 
program." 
Their success is unmatched anywhere in sports right 
now. 

The Techsters arc perhaps the only basketball team 
in the country that could replace a Wade Trophy win­
ner (Pam Kelly, named the nation's best player in 1981­
H2) with an even better player -center Janice 
I.awrence. 
What Sonja Hogg has built down at LTU is a legitimate 
dynasty. But the history ofwomen's basketball is one of 
dynasties that dominated for a couple of years, then 
gave way when a bigger school proved more capable of 
maintaining a national-calibre team. 
First, there was Mary DiStanislao's mentor, Cathy 
Rush, and her powerful squad at Immaculata College in 
suburban Philadelphia. For three years, no team came 
dose to what Sports Illustrated dubbed "the real UCLA 
of the East." Then Mississippi's Delta State knocked 
them off their perch. Delta ruled the sport until Old 
Dominion's Lady Monarchs brought the women's game 
to network television for the first time. 
And now, the Lady Techsters arc the best. 
"The biggest thing is that the women's game is 
improving every year," says Hogg. "It's great being na­
tional champions. It's also unrealistic to think you can 
win it every vear." 
For now-though, the place where Hogg and Barmore 
have brought the Techsters -number one in the 
country -is still nothing more than a distant goal for 
the Irish women. 
"Tech really is No. 1," says DiStanislao. "They've got 
the tradition, the talent, and the coaching. It's quite an 
opportunity to go up against No. 1 -and I do mean an 
opportunity -because after Friday night, we'll really 
know just how good we are." 
How far away are the Irish women? 
"We're two players away," says Mary D. "We just got \'onnie Thompson. who fills our need at guard, and we really need a center. a big person to get down low. 
"We've been clos·c. hut we've had a hard time getting that center. Ccn· tcrs are a different breed that "i--.t people (like myself) don't under· stand." 
The odds would seem to dictate that the paths of these two schools , would never pas!>. /""' 
But tomorrow night at the A(' they wilL 
Laura Dougherty 


----~-----­
The Observer Sports Special-Irish vs. Tech Thursday, February 10, 1983 page9 
• • • Mary D. 



Going at 'the wall' 
Irish women take another crack at the Big Time 
By MIKE SULLIVAN ing a 10-1 home record, and it holds Sports Writer its NCAA Tournament fortunes in its own hands. "We're gonna get over that wall Not too bad for a team that is in yet." only its third year of Division I com­
These are the fighting words of petition, and playing its first solid women's basketball coach Mary DiS­Division I schedule. tanislao. She is referring to the Despite the newness of the obstacle that keeps her team from program, though, the Notre Dame coming up with the all-important schedule would give almost every win over a nationally-ranked op­team in the country a difficult time. ponent. "There aren't too many third-year 
When the big win finally comes, teams that take on the schedule that the Irish will have attained the thing we do," DiStanislao admits. that they have been striving for for It was not a case of working up to the last three years -national the big games by beating up on the recognition. weaker teams, either. 
It is this last step in the growth of The first action of the year, the the program that has turned out to Orange Crush Tournament at the be the most difficult. Five times this Rosemont Horizon, put the Irish in a year the Irish have played a ranked four-team tournament in which the team, and five times they have failed. other three teams were ranked. 
Louisiana Tech, the toughest op­Their inexperience showed as they ponent of all, will he the sixth had turnover problems and dropped chance. both t games. 
A win over the Lady Techsters It was at this time that the charac­would definitely get the Notre Dame ter of the team was first tested. In· program some immediate attention, stead of losing confidence because hut, more realistically, a good of the losses, the team rebounded showing would give the young Irish with an impressive nine-game win­players some confidence for the ning streak. next big opponent. And it was definitely a team effort. 
Despite this failure to get the big Nine players divided most of the win, however, the season is far from playing time as nobody averaged a disappointment. Notre Dame's even thirty mintes of playing time. record is an impressive 14-6, includ-There was a difkrent player who 
starred every game. 


Freshman Lynn Ebben was an ear­ly surprise as she carried a good deal of the offensive load for the first few games. Laura Dougherty and Mary Beth Schueth then took charge. Schueth in particular was impressive as she dominated the hoards every gme. 
"Mary Beth may he the best rehounder in the country," said DiS­tanislao at' the time. 
Meanwhile, the entire team showed why D:iStanislao-coached squads are known to he tough on defense. Sophomore Ruth Kaiser took charge of the defense like she had done the year before, leading the team in steals and taking the tough defensive assignment. 
A 25-point loss at third-ranked :Maryland slowed the team down, though, as the players realized that they were not yet ready for the big teams. 
As they had done betore, 
J.i however, they rebounded from the loss by winning three-of-four at home. The one loss -to Alabama ­was due in a large part to poor Irish shooting. 
See SEASON, page 13 

continuedfrom page 16 
"And I said 'sure.' She had them call me, I had an inter­
view and I was hired. 
"Oh, we were the pits," continues the 31-year-old 
native of Pennsauken, N.j., "because we didn't have the 
PE program, we didn't have the built-in jocks. People 
didn't exactly come to Northwestern to play ball. 
"But in a lot of respects it was the exact opposite of 
what we have here, because people looked and said, 
'Northwestern? They're losers. You don't go there to be 
an athlete.' So we were constantly underrated." 
Mary D. took over the Wildcats in 1975 and, within 
five years, led them to the AlA W national quarterfinals 
while compiling a 90-27 recor_d and two straight Big 
Ten titles. There was still room for improvement, but 
the re1building job was complete. 
So when Phelps and Notre Dame came calling in 
1980, Mary D. was listening. Attentively. 
"He (Phelps) didn't have to say much," she says. 
"This is a job I've always wanted to have. You grow up a 
Catholic kid in the East, you may not know where Notre 
Dame is, but you sure know what it means. 
"The first time Icame down here (while at Northwes­
tern), I took a trip through the ACC. Digger and Roger 
( Valdiserri, sports information director) were sitting 
there talking and I walked in and introduced myself. 
"I liked the situation," says DiStanislao. "And I said, 
'When you decide to build the program up, I want the 
job.' But I th1nk Digger, in seeing all the interest I'd 
taken in the program and after having seen what we'd 
done at Northwestern, felt contldent in endorsing me to 
Father (Edmund) Joyce or Mr. (Moose) Krause or 
anybody else. 
"I don't think we've let them down so far.'' 
Once she was hired, it was time for DiStanislao to appoint assistants, to hire the architects for the reconstruction. In Sharon Petro's final year as coach, Notre Dame had made the AlA W national tournament -but that was Division Ill. 
Now the Irish were leaping from Division Ill to Divi­sion I -from the farm to the big city, from Kansas to the Land of Oz. And they needed a couple of tough, hard­working assistant coaches -Mary D. clones, in other words -to lay the foundation. 
Enter Patrick Knapp and Mary Murphy. 
"Pat I had known through the camps we had done together (with Cathy Rush)," says DiStanislao ofthe 29­vear-old Knapp. "When I took the job, he indicated he was interested in being an assistant along with about 60 other people, but I knew Pat. He fit the bill because he's a good coach and he had built a program of his own (at Bishop McDevitt High School For Boys in the Philadel­phia Catholic League). 
"And he wasn't pompous to the point that he felt no women had any talent at all. I felt he was aggressive, and we needed aggressive peoyle who were going to go out and get after it." 
Murphy, 23, played for DiStanislao at Northwester and captained Mary D.'s final Wildcat team in 1 
"Mary didn't want to go itito the pros," says D lao, "and got an opportunity to come here and master's degree (in business) and work with program. 
"She too is aggressive and intelligent, and I thou would be an_ asset to the progra·m because she recruited herself and went through four years program that went from no respect to the ult' respect in the Midwest and the Big Ten." 
With these three heads working together, was inevitable. A 20-win season and an NCAA ment bid are still within reach this year, but doesn't see it as essential just yet. 
"If we make it this year, fine," she says. "But going to be a great program. People look at the v. recruit, the kind of program we run, the kind of we turn out. Because of that it's going to be cessful ...and it's successful already." 
If the decision were up to Ma and Pa a few years back, 
their daughter would he Doctor Mary DiStanislao today. 
And probably loathing every minute ofit. 
Growing up, Mary D. was the kind ofkid you'd expect -a lirtle brar who always hung around and competed with boys, a girl who burned her bra before she even knew what one was. 
"I idolized my cousins," DiStanislao recalls. "I was a 
pretty active child. My father would take me on his 
junkets on Saturday mornings -Little League, midget 
football and basketball -along with my uncle and his 
four sons. I was always in the company of boys, which 
It--·· 
was pretty interesting because I had to be aggressive just to hold my own. 
"I always enjoyed doing what the boys did. I always enjoyed being able to run around and play, and get yelled at when I got dirty. After a while, we had all kinds ofconflicts because people said, 'You're a girl; girls just don't do this'-remember, this is the late SO's." 
The conflict reached its height when Mary, after graduating from Rutgers University, opted to become a teacher-and coach three sports -at Wildwood Cath· olic High School in NewJersey. Her parents had wanted her to attend medical school. 
But basketball was still in her blood. So Mary skipped med school, quit teaching and took an assistant coach­ing job at Immaculata. Nine years later, she is one of the most respected people in her profession. 
Now what do her parents think? 
"Ah, they love it," Mary D. says. Then, she adds solemnly, "You know the way it is with parents. They have to make sure you do well at what you do. They understand that even though I didn't work hard to be a doctor, I did work hard to be something." 
If the challenge to rebuild a broken program arises, 
would DiStanislao take the bait' 
"No, I don't think so," she says. "This is a good place • 
to be and I think the next career change will be just that. 
I don't think I'd go to another school. 
"It's nice to build a program. it's a wonderful chal­
lenge to build a program, and it's your opportunity to 
put your mark on something. But it's not easy; it takes a 
toll on you personally. It ages you. 
"I really think I'm pretty lucky," she continues, 
"because I'm part of something that's never been done 
before. Not just coaching, but being a young woman 
who up until a few years ago would never have had the 
latitude that I have, the opportunitv that I have." 
Tomorrow night. Mary D. has the opportunitv of a 
lifetime against No. I Louisiana Tech. But win o; lose 
the future remains bright for her program. , ' 
"Even though the basketball wags say that Louisiana 
Tech is the best team in the countn· while we're onlv 
40th or 50th best," she says, "this is o.ne ofthe big game-s 
of the year ( nationallv )." 
And, finally, the oh~·ious. 
"I love it. I love it, because people have that much 
regard tor my program." 
And about ten times as much tor its coach. 
Mary DiStanislao 

---..------------~--~--------------------~ 

M
arried. become a literary version of France's Panama Canal Two bitchy blond daughters. project. The deeper he digs into it, the more lost in Acorpulant, fawning wife. quagmire he becomes. 
He takes to touring the world in search ofa purposeA large suburban home. 
he doesn't even know. In Australia he gets involved inBridge clubs. 
sexual affairs with two women. However. he has
·. 
Is this your idea of hell? It's mine. And it's also Henry become so detached emotionally that Bech is but a Bech's. mere spectator. He finds himselfthe propaganda junket -tours sponsored by the U.S. State Department to take John Updike is the Sybil of the bookworld. His 
American culture to foriegn lands. His audiences of numerous alter-egos make appearences in book form 
dronish State Department employees don't care, the every decade or so. Many are familiar with the popular 
people ofthe country don't care, and Bech doesn't care. Rabbit series. Henry Bech first appeared in Bech: A 
Blinded by his own apathy, and sinking deeper intoBook written in 1970. In that novel Bech was a young 
his mental morass, Bech grasps at the only rope he thinks is available, the sister ofhis former mistress. This woman is bored. She thinks that Bech, a famous author
Rynn is what she needs to brighten her dreary staus-quo ex­istence.
Vet Betkmoes 
So, Bech allows himself to be adopted. The honeymoon begins to end, while he is on his
author whose first major work became a best-seller. Un­honeymoon. The couple venture to the Holy Land, fortunately, Bech learned that it is never wise to climax where his wife has several religuos experiences amongto quickly career-wise. 
the concession stands ofJerusalem. He has a New 
Bech is adrift mentally and emotionally. Despite his Yorker's scepticism for this shclock. They fight.
love for New York. he cannot feel at home there. He has been working on his next novel Think Big for several 
Updike pulls an interesting transition in the chapter years. The title is symbolic, since the project has 
"McBech." While Bech, ajew, had found his homeland meaningless, he finds his wife's Scottish homeland
Hecb is Back, John l"pdike, Alfred A. Knop( :'\lew York, 19Hl. 19'> pa~c~. 
moving. The spark is lit. He begins afresh on Think Big 
The lengthiest chapterofBechIs Back is titled "Bech Wed." Here Updike makes the strongest and most elo­quent statement about the pitfalls of marraige I have read. Bech finds himself not so much his wife's beloved pet, hut a stranger in a suburban land. His new daughters from his wife's previous marriage have all the charm ofValley Creatures. Bech retreats -and writes. 
Most novels have their tlaws, but I am hard pressed to find any in Bechls Back. The hook is not long. It makes for an enjoyable Sunday afternoon of reading. Through the central character, it is easy to gain insight into the pratfalls oflife awaiting the unsuspecting. We have all found ourselves adrift like Bech, fortunately, we don't all have to take his drastic measures ofcure. 
Updike has emerged as one of the foremost novelists ofcontemporary life. He has a great ability to color a scene and bring it to life. One of his best involves a lovemaking session between a suffering Bech and his squeaky wife. The humor in the book is ironic and cyni­cal. Those blindly aspiring to suburbia will find many parts sacrilegious~ 
In the end, Bech Is Back is about getting one's act to­gether. Fortunately,John Updike is not entirely Henry Bech. Thus, while we may have to wait another decade to read ofBech, we won't have ro wait another decade to read Updike. 
DUST: a challenge to think1 

T
o many Americans the name Wil­liam Styron is not in the mainstream ofAmerican literature. Yet, this talented Southerner has written some of the most powerful fiction ofthe past quarter century (Set This House orz Fire, The Confes-
Joe Rodtigue.z 
sions ofNat Turner and Sophie's 
Choice). 
Being an admirer ofStyron I was somewhat apprehensive about what I would find in his latest book, This Quiet Dust. It is for Styron, a 
departure from fiction, and is in fact a compendium of his essays dealing with the events which helped shape him as an artist and a person. 
What I encountered was a fascinating potpourri ofruminations and reflective prose t. These essays enlarge and expand many of the themes Styron has dealt with in his fiction. 
Beginning with a section entitled South, Styron deals with the confu­sion and occasional certitudes that accompan} the proverbial "Southern Cons{· .ence." Particularly 
moving is the article "This Quiet 
Dust," which chromcles Styron's 

search for the story of the historical 
black activist, Nat Turner. 

Also included are some brilliant potraits ofpeople he has known, people such as Robert Penn Warren, Peter Matthiessen and George Plimpton. The latter two writers joined Styron in 1952 to found The Paris Review. 
Styron also writes appreciative 

elegies for his literary predecessors 
William Faulkner. F. Scott Fitzgerald 
and Thnmas Wolfe. 

The book is complex and thought­
ful as it explores Styron's impres­

sions of his years in the Marines, the 
William Calley incident and his 

general feelings about the American 
armed services. 

To say more about the book would be unfair to the reader who wishes to treat him or herselfto a rare reading experience: a chal­lenge. It is a challenge in the sense that Styron's essays are not merely the chronicles ofhis life, but they are a microcosm ofthe events that have been at the forefront of American life since 1940. The issues involved are provocative and probing; much 
ofthe reading is serious (though Styron does inject some wonderful! human comedy as well), and it is im­portant to approach the book with an open mind. You may not agree with some ofStyron's views, but it is difficult not to be moved by his honesty and his abilirv to evoke a special depth of human emotion through prose. 
I recommend the book on irs literary merits, ofcourse. But it is also an opportunity to scan the past few decades through the eyes ofone ofAmerica's greatest living writers. 
Thi.'i f.Juiel {)u.'i/, W1lllam ~[yron, Rantlom llou!<o«:, ~t:w York. 19H2. :\0<; pagt:!<o. 

DICK 
ANOVEL 
Ot•tldt'J'e f)i(·k. Kun \onnt:gu[, Dclacoun Pre:~:-.. s.._..w York. llJH2 2 tO p.i~t..·.., 
DEADEYE's on target 
A
n American-made neutron bomb, accidentally launched from a government truck driving down Highway 11 depopulates Mid­land City, Ohio. A neutered pharmicist suffers with the name "Deadeye Dick" after a childhood mishap involving the shooting ofa pregnant woman on Mother's Day. Combine this with a lady who develops brain tumors from exposure to a radioactive fireplace man­tel piece, and a woman who permanantly unclogs her pipes by swallowiing a cup ofDrano and you have the makings ofKurt Von­negut's latest novel, Deadeye Dick. 
Vonnegut returns to a setting from his 1973 novel. Breakfast of Champions, and using a few familiar characters from this earlier work creates an entirely new story.DeadeyeDick is the self-told life story ofa sexless pharmacist, Rudy Waltz. 
Rudy begins with a description ofhis father's early college days when he was an art student in Vienna. 1t is here that Rudy's father, Ot-
Jetty 
Young 
to, befriends one Adolf Hitler who also happens to be a struggling young artist. Otto purchases a painting from the portfolio of the broke and starving Adolf and thereby saves the life ofthis future monster. "That is my principal objection to life," Rudy comments, "it is too easy to make perfectly horrible mistakes." 
At the age of 12 Rudy commits an accidemal double murder which permanently changes the life ofhis family. His victim is an ex­pectant Mrs. Eloise Metzger who happens to he vacuuming her living room several blocks away when hit. "What," asked Rudy "was a pregnant mother oftwo doing operating a vacuum cleaner on Mot­her's Oay? She was practically asking for a bullet between the eyes, wasn't she?" 
Sent to jail for the deed, Rudy and his father are treated quite bru­tally by the police; Otto is pushed down a tlight ofsteel stairs, and Rudy is splashed with "fingerprinting" ink and then put on display in a cage where people are invited to observe and are encouraged to throw punches at the young convict. The Metzgers sue the Waltz family and win every last cent ofa chain-store inheritance with which Otto has been supporting his family. They are ruined. 
The book then jumps to Rudy's mid-life during which he ignores his teacher's encouragement in the direction ofwriting, and instead pursues the field ofpharmacy. Since he works the graveyard shift at Schramm's Drug Store, Rudy passes the daytimes writing a contest­winning play for which he is awarded with its production on Broad­way. The play flops and Rudy returns home a depressed man. 
Rudy now relocates to Haiti bur trouble continues to erupt. An Ohio snow-storm rips through Midland City and claims the life ofhis father. Later, a neutron bomb "accidentally" destroys the surviving inhabitants ofhis home town ...hut leaves material objects intact ~ thus proving the "harmlessness ofa neutron bomb." Rudy and his brother Felix, a one time President of the NBC network, escape this catastrophe because they are at their island paradise of Haiti. 
Deadeye Dick is a book worth reading. Vonnegut conveys a serious ~essage to the reader through humorous, exaggerated means. Sometimes his humor is on ... sometimes it is off; but overall Vonnegut has produced a highly entertaining work with a subtle seriousness about it. Throughout the book I found myself laughing aloud at the unusual and funny images he created. Upon finishing Deadeye Dick I found that it had inspired some thoughts in my mind on one's outlook on life. Vonnegut stressed how so many of us are victims of living our lives as epilogues; once a certain climax is reached in the action ofour lives, the story is over. His book presents these endings to emphasize this point. On the last page of the book Vonnegut offers us his own idea about how we live our lives -but I'll save this for the reader to discover. 
Ifyou liked Vonnegut before you'll love him now. Ifyou have 
never read anything ofKurt's hef<;>re, this book could turn you off for 
good. As a fan ofVonnegut I can sympathize with the man as heap­
proaches his 60th birrhdar and attempts to piece together an 
epilogue of his own life experience. In the Prologue ofDeadeye 
Dick, Vonnegut states that the unappreciated, empty spherical arts 
center building t mentioned in the book symbolizes his own head. 
Keeping this in mind, the novel seems to be an attempt to collect 
some of the debris that has found its wa~' into Kurt's head after 60 
years ofliving on this planet. 
The Observer 
''BUD'' 
c_ CASEOF ~ 24CANS
\ 
~s s729 
~~ 
HOURS 9A.M.·10 P.M. MON.-THURS. 9A.M.-11 P.M. FRIDAY -SATURDAY 
., 

Thursday, February 10, 1983 -page 11 
eoou. 
CASE OF 
$1199 
24 CANS 

LABATTS BEER OR ALE  $1 099  
CASE OF 24 BOnLES  
'"'  - 

PRICES GOOD THRU SAT., 
FEB. 12th 
LIQUOR CORDIALS & BRANDIES WINES &CHAMPAGNES 
PHILADELPHIA BLEND ____ ._115 9.99 DEKUYPER SCHNAPPS _ 150 3.99 CARLO ROSSI ___________ utTER 4.99 
DEKUYPERFLAYORED TEN HIGH BOURBON ___ 115 10.99 BRANDIES __ __ _ 750 4.99 
CHRISTIAN BROTHERS _ _____ t5 2.99 
DUCONTE CORDIALS --1o 4.99
MACGREGOR SCOTCH _____ 115 10.99 ~~ 
UIUEnO __________ 750 4.99 
GERMAN LIEBFRAUMILCH __ .J5o 2.99
CASTILLO RUM __ ___ 115 9.99 :a~ 
CHill COFFEE LIQUEUR _ 750 4.99 CALVERT GIN _____ 175 8.99 ~=-BAILEY'S IRISH CREAM __ 750 10.99 ZELLER SCHWARTZ£ KATZ __ 15o 3.99 LORD CAL VERT ___ 10.99
. 115 

FRANGELICD _ 500 8.99 
CANE IWINES ___ __ _ ______ 75o 2.99 
SEAGRAMS 7CROWN _______ 1 15 10.99 
-----.. JACK DANIELS 75o 7.99 7.99 MACKINTOSH SCOTCH ______ 115 10.99 '--1 
ZONIN ASTI ___ 15o 4.99 
CANADIAN CLUB __ ___ J5o 6.99 -... J. ROGET SPUMANTE ________ 15o 2A9 
SMIRNOFF VODKA __ __ __ __ 75o 4.99 
KINGS CELLAR VALUE 
BOODLES GIN ___________ 1so 7.99 :.~ TAYLOR CHAMPAGNE _______ J5o 4.99
VODKA OR GIN 
JAMESON IRISH _ __ J5o 7.99 YOUR CHOICE 
f.J COOORNIU . ......... .. '" 5.99 
GLENFIDDICH SCOTCH ______ 150 15.99 "'fi.......J:1: SORIA VERMOUTH ___ ___ __ J5o 1AI
SOUTHERN COMFORT _______ 1so 5.99 
FRIDAY ONLY SATURDAY ONLY
SOUTH BEND AVE STORE •~-------,-------­
I 2-11-83 I I 2-12-83 I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KELLER-I MATEUS ~ I~ 
KEG SPECIALS QUART SPECIALS I GEISTER I ROSE ~ I
1
99 279 e
BUDWEISER1f2 29.99 I I
I ~ I 750 ML I
750 ML 
MILLER1f2 29.99 BUDWEISER 8.99 L LIMIT1PERPERSON i LIMIT1PERPERSON I 
GENERIC1f2 24.99 OLD MILWAUKEE 7.. 29 I ---------------SATURDAYONLY I
FRIDAYONLY
I I I
2-11-83 2-12-83 
MICHELOB 1f2 37.99 MILLER 8.99 1 GENERIC ~ 1 HEINEKEN 1 
~D·E·P-OS·I-T:_K_E_G_~_~_P_$_9~~--------~· ~ ~; I 13~ I
4 ''"' ~ +I i
''"' I

LIMIT 1 PER PERSON LIMIT 1 PER PERSON 
7-7 SPECIAL 
FRIDAY ONLY SATURDAY ONLY
~ ------------­
RUM &COKE 1 2-11-83 . 1 2-12-83 1
750 mi. 7 Crown Castillo Rum 750 mi. 1 JOHNNIE I KESSLER 1
21. 7UP 
21. COKE I WALKER RED ~-I BLEND I 
$5.99 $5.49 II 799 ,-, _~ II 899 II
750 ML I -' .~-1.75 LITER
Save $3.00 

LIMIT 1 PER PERSON ... LIMIT 1 PER PERSON
I 

l t 

~j)l>~ts=J:J===t;t==·~~~£=S========~====================T=h=u=rs=·ct=~='=Fe=b=r=ua=~=r=Io=,=I=9H=3===P=ag=e=1==2
By The rJ!Jsen•er and !be Assucioted Press 

Any remaining participants in the men's un­
dergrad and men's grad singles racquetball tournaments should call the :'>I\'A office at 2:39-6100 to report results and keep the tourna­ment moving. -Tbe 0/Jsen•er 
Bookstore Basketball Commi~sioner Dave [)zied­
zic has announced a major rule change for this year's tourn;tment. Only one :'>ICAA Division I basketball player. past. or present. will be allowed per team. Re~t~tration tor Bookstore XII will he Sunday. \larch 6, not .\larch I 0 as previou~ly reported -Tbe ()!Jsen•er 
Marathon Oil has bought all of the remaining tickets to this Saturday's hockev game against Bowling <ireen. The company distrihutt:d most of the tickets to its dealers. The~e tickets are sold out. Howevt:r. there are 'iOO tickets remaining t(>r students and fans. The rickets can he bought at Gate I 0 of the ACC from 9 to 'i every day this week. Game time is "':50. -Tbe Obsert•er 
Open volleyball is beginning. Tht: entry deadline is ft:hruary I 'i at 'i:OO. Because thert: is a :32-team limit. <:arly signup is encouraged. The tournanwnt is open to students, faculty, and staff. It is single elimination with three I'i-point games per round. The ros­ter minimum is nine plavers. Entries can he submitted to tht: NYA oftkt: in th<: ACC. -Tbe 0/Jsen•er 
Cross country ski clinic will he held Saturday on the Burke :\lemorial Golf Course from I I a.m. to noon. Anyone in­ter<:sted should meet with skis at the first tee. Ski~ can he rented at the golf shop in the Rock from +'i p.m. on Friday, and from 10:50-5 
p.m. Saturday. -Tbe 0/Jserl'er. 
Win streak snapped 
Purdue team swims past Irish 
By THERON ROBERTS 
.\jmrts Writer 
It had been o,ix ,·ears ~ince :'liotre Dame contested Purdue in men's swimming. The Irish probably wished tht· Boilermakers had stayed home this year also, as they cruo,hcd \iD. M-1--l'i. The loss snapped \lotrt· Dame·, win streak at lour. 
Purdue. ihe toughest competition the lri~h have laced this vear. slut­
' .
tered four pool records en route to the victorv. Tht· bt·st performance l(Jr :'llotre 
Dame wa~ regist<:red by Paul :\lcGowan. The senior diver notched a win in tht: three meter diving and grabbed second place in the one mt:ter competition. 
Other individual winnt:rs l<>r the Irish wne: AI !larding in the I00­vard free. Tim Bohdan in the 200­yard backstroke, and Blaise !larding, winner in the 200-vard breaststroke. 
Bohdan broke the varsity record in the I000-yard freestyle l(H the third time this year. with a I0:0 I.'i2 clocking. !lis third-place perl(>r­mance was overshadowed by a Boiler who st·t a pool record in the race. 
The men's swimming record now stands at 6-.~­
Wayne ~tate invades the friend!\· confines of tht· Rockne Pool on Staurday, with the meet getting un­derway at 2 p.m. It is the tina! home meet of the season. 
Stark believes '\ID has a good chance to win again't \\'ayne State. 
"l.a~t year we heat them in the last event. so thev'll be out to gt·r us." 
Ran1s 

continuedfmmfJuMe 16 
spot for the Rams because of an in­
jury to 6-H Ed Bona who is suffering 
from hepatitis and is not expected to 
play. A 12-point scorer in last year's 
game, he was averaging nearly nine 
points and five rebounds a game. 
Mike Cooper, a 6--i senior, will try 
to make up for Bona's absence. He is 
averaging 9. 7 points and -!.6 
rebounds a game. The other forward 
spot is expeered to be filled by new­
comerJames Robinson. 
At center lilr the Rams is 6-10 
Goran Skoko. The Yugoslavian native has been making the transi· tion to the American game slowly, but appears to be coming on. 
Tony Mcintosh, Mark Murphy, Brendan Pierson, and Dave Rober­
son  also  return  to give  Penders  a  
strong bench.  
Phelps  will  counter  with  a  

revamped starting lineup. Along with the always steady John Paxson, he has been starting Dan Duf( Joseph Price, Jim Dolan, and Tim Kempton. 
"After the UCLA game, we felt we needed to make some changes," ex­plains Phelps. "We decided to go 
with the pt·ople whH had been playing most consistently tor us ­no matter who they were. I wa~ hap­py with the resuits in the two games. 
For the first time all season. we came down the stretch in control -and we were able to control the situa­tions instead of having to play catch­
up all the time. We played consistently lor ·tO minutes." 
Consistency is the key on which all future Irish hopes are based. An NCAA bid is dangling by a thread in the distance. Norre Dame's hopes of claiming it rest on its ability to play well down the stretch. 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Frtday. 10 a.m to 4 30 p m However. classtlteds to appear 1n the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton All classtfteds must be prepatd. 
etther 1n person or through the matl 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
2&o OFF the pnce of a student ltcket wtth lhts ad and an ID The Acttng Company for the Kennedy Center presents Shakespeare s . THE TWELFTH NIGHT 
8.00 PM. Feb t 2. at Century Center Box OffiCe: 284-9111 
TYPING 
Jackte Boggs 
684-8793 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST GOLD SEIKO WATCH LEFT IN LOCKER AT THE ROCK ON 1/24/83 IF 'FOUND, PLEASE CALL GARY AT x4388 REWARD$$$ 
LOSTIIII NOTRE DAME class nng A GOLD ladtes dmner nng. wtth a GOLD stone. lnscnpt1on on ms1de IS --B. B. F 84 --If found please call BRIDGET at 8565. or JIM at 3274 Or come by 325 Lewts or 216 Keenan Please help!! THANK YOUII 
LOST A PAIR OF NAVY BLUE NYLON RUNNING PANTS ON MONDAY JAN 31 THEY WERE DROPPED SOMEWHERE BETWEEN LEWIS AND GRACE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL KEVIN x1592 LATE NIGHT IS BEST 
L_QST Yellow folder w1th Notre Dame e'llblem on the front e1ther last Monday or ruesday (2/1 Or 2/2) labeled ··chnsttan :)cnptures·' If found please call Debbie l34-7961. Thanks. 
LOST: 1/2 carat dtamond on gold settmg for necklace e1ther rn Bus1ness Bldg. or .;cc on Wednesday. 2/2 Call 277-0458 ~arly AM 
-OST"! ND CLASS RING(83). NAME 
'ISIDE LOST POSSIBLY AT 
SMCtMOREAU-O.LAUGHLIN HALLt. 
· AST SEEN OVER THE WEEKEND OF 
/28-1/30; IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO 
''LEASE CALL 283· 3346 
To whoever accrdently took my berge overcoat at the ACC dance Fnday nrght. ;;lease return rt. I have yours I Call Bnan at 8315 
LOST-A tan RAINCOAT CVERCOAT 
al the SMC dance 1n the ACC. It had a palf 
suade gloves rn the pockets Probably 
taken by mrs-take If you 'lave rt please 
call Dave at 1866. 1can help you locate 
,ours 
LOST ONe grey. flannel kntt. wool scart Mrssrng ~rrlce tate Sunday ntght Lost on ~orth Quad Phtl x 1486 
lost gold setko quartz watch posstbly leff 1n locker room at the Rock on 2/4/83 If found. please call Ktm at 277-7401 
Dtd you go loa NEW WAVE PARTYtn the basement of GRACE on SATURDAY ntght (2·5·83)? Whose COAT dtd you wear home? Somebody took my coat It IS (was) a NAVY-BLUE P-COAT With forest green MITTENS 1n the sleeve and tns1de the m1ttens were my fnends BASKET­BALL TICKETS (packet B) I NEED my coat-espectally wtth all th1s snow PLEASE call me any trme day or n1ght--Mary Karen 284-5013 or 284-5194 PLEASE HELP ME!!!!!! 
LOST a pa1r of bnght ptnk. plasttc. bat glasses near Walsh Hall Please return them. they are qutte valuable to me Thanks Maureen xB008 
LOST On Monday Ntghfs 11 30 shuttle. an Olympus m a blue case If found please call284-5487 
Lost. Blue Tratlwtse 1acket at Farley party on Saturday Found Blue Trarlw,sejacket nearly 1dent1ca1 Call Frank 177 4 
A HANDMADE MONKEY SOCK STUFFED ELEPHANT WAS LOST NEAR THE LIBRARY ON 2171831 IT BELONGS TO ANNIE LIGHT. A FIVE­YEAR-OLD GIRL. PLEASE RETURN TO 734 P E THAN X 
FOR RENT 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREAS 2773604 
STUDENT RENTAL. 4-BEDROOM HOUSE CALL232-4057, 272·7767 
4 bdrm furnished house. near campus On Notre Dame Ave Good conditiOn. 9 mo lease $335 per mo. Call 684-Qll33 (local call). 
STUDENT RENTAL 3-BDRM HOUSE NEAR CAMPUS ON S. BEND AVE CALL 239-6244 or 283-8657 
Approved Off-campus house for rent Fur­ntshed 823 N.D Ave. Call277-3461 
Cheap Rent & low ultltltes $235, 1·3 Bedroom Apt $165-185 ott Portage 289­1687 
WANTED• ROOMMATE TO SHARE AN APT AT CAMPUS VIEW tNOUIRE AT 277-1708 OR 283-8327 
House.4 bedroom near ND. $290 permo Fall or summer No utilities Phone (319) 322-8753 Patty. 
Room tor rent, k1tCt1en. laundry pnv11eges · Males only $30/wk. Safe netghborhood 287-0173 affer 4 p m 
Sem1-Furn 2BdRm Apt nedr ND U111111es Pd Less Gus P~ 272-0~51 two Rooms Wtth Bath All Utilities Patd Male Preferred Pnvate Entrance 288­0955 

WANTED 
RIDE NEEDED to central Mtchtgan on Feb 11 Please call Davtd at 1101 
need nde to CHICAGO Feb 11 Call Kathy x6883 
Need RIDE TO PURDUE for wweekend of Feb 18-20 Call Bruce 1360 
NEED RIDE TO U OF M ANN ARBOR FEB 11 CHRIS 3184 
Need nders to John Carrolltn Cleveland Leavtng Fnday. Feb 11 Call John x3554 
Hey! We need a nde to Purdue lh1s weekend If you can help, please call Tom al3121 or Btll at 3202 
FOR SALE 
USED. OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS BOUGHT. SOLD. SEARCHED ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E WAYNE ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY­JEFFERSON INTERSECTION 
Stereo Components Ltke New In Ongtnal Cartons Crown DC 300A Power AMP Crown 1 C 150 Pre Amp PtoneerTX 7500 Tuner Thorens TD 160 C Turn table 2x AOS 810 speakers Phone 234-2937 
SALE (2) 40watt Marantz Speakers Protect/one 20walt Recetver Best Offer PH 1540 
PERSONALS 
SMAK1 
MEET A KISSER. Sponsored by Sen1or Class. Send a certJf1cate redeemable tor a KISS to your favorrte! On sale Monday through Fnday. 11.00AM-100PM. Feb 7-11. For only 25 cents tn LAFORTUNE Send a Ktss for Vatent1ne-s Day--s1gn up now !!!!!I! 
Today 1s Election Day at SMCI For Class of 85 otftcers vote 
Cara Hageman 
Michelle Lopez 
Marti Jones Mary Ann Potter Don t forget to vote! 
CATCH THAT SOPH SPIRIT' VOTE Anne Matte KOLLMA~-Pre' Shetla FLOGD-V P Kath1 HARTWEGER-Sec y Gretchen WROBLEWSKI Tres TODAY' 
: 3<1tes Jf P W VOTE SltrkS Prez McCrudden-VP of hall counc•l 
ND SOPHOMORE SKI TRIP REFUNDS can now be p1cked up 1n the Student Ac~ t1v1t1e off1ce Any questions, call Gary 8022 
Need Rtde To Connecticut For Spong Break Wtll Share Usual Please Call Dan at 6824 -
Tned the OAR HOUSE? Everyday 2 tor 1 dnnks w1th snacks 4· 7pm Tues IS Ladtes Ntght 1/2 pnce dnnks Thurs spec•al Snake 81tes $1 Gameroom & dancrng Carry out open t1l 3am every ntght 
THEO MAJORS: Today come to the So­cial Hour with Notre Dame's Professor of Judaism: NAOMI JANOWITZ-331 O'Shaughnessy, Spm. 
BAR MELODY BAR MELODY BAR MELODY More 1nto soon 
/ Hey Class of '86 Don't Look Us Over We're The Lucky Clover Vote JULIE HARMON-Pres. MARY SAUER-V.P JANET SIEGEL-Sec. THERESA HARDY-Tres. On Thursday Feb. 10 
ATTENTION ALL SMC FRESHMEN For Soph Class Offtcers-Vole. Feb 1 0 -for A. Bertucc1-Pres A Karnalz-V P S Knezev1ch~Treas 0 Buchanan-Sec For a Super Sophomore Class! 
SMC Class of 85 Vote 
MANION KARNATZ SAAS NOLAN 
for JUNIOR CLASS OFFICERS 
VALENTINES DAY IS ALMOST HERE SEND A CARNATION! ON SALE IN SOUTH DINING HALL. FEB 8-12 
Sarnt Marys student Let h1m know how (little) you care Buy Observer Valent1ne-personals Ten cents per seven 
characters (And they say you cant buy love) Come lo the SMC OBSERVER off1ce 1n the basement of Regrna South. 12 30 lo 3 p m . Monddy through Fnday 
JEFF. SINCE YOU DON T READ THE PERSONALS MAKE SURE-SOMEONE POINTS THIS OUT TO YOU SUCH AS OSCAR BY THE WAY HAVE YOU F0f1GOTTEN OUR 1215 APPOINT­MENT? A MEMBER OF THE MWF B· 
CLUB 
KATHY DOYLE IS A SPORTS FANATIC. 
BRUNO'S ORIGINAL FAMILY PIZZA A SECOND LOCATION -NORTH ON 
U.S. 31, LESS THAN 1.5 MILES FROM 
N.D. -DELIVERY TO N.D. AND SMC 277-4519. 

ATIN. Students mterested 1n volunteer· 1ng a summer 1n Atnca -a rep-resentatlve from OPERATION CROSSROADS AFRICA wtll be speaktng wtth students dt the Center tor Soc1al Concerns on Frrday. Feb 11, rn sem-1nar room 1 --11 am to noon and 1 pm to 2 30. INTERESTED PERSONS WELCOME 
SENIOR SKI TRIP BUS LISTS IN STU· DENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE IN LAFORTUNE! 
Ctndy-Here s a httle note to set your day off Hope the day turns out excellent! Jtm 
TRIO AUDITIONING proflctent acoustic gu1tar pia yer. harmony vocals For rnfo call Lynn 6459 or Dan 3549 
HEY! Want to get ahead m the sconng For 2 potnts or more call 3498. ask for M1ke. Conversation optiOnal 
Atlanta. Are you gorng to or through Atlanta tor sprtng break? I could sure use a nde Comtng back early for GMAT by chance? Need nde one way or the other Call Jeb at 8641 Thanks 
Band1es 

Want to get nd of w1nter blues rn a 
flash? 

Then come to the Band Valentrne Bash. 
Sat. 9-2, Keenan (Remember SYR?)(or 
<s 1t SYD, Jerry?) 

SUMMER PROGRAMS -SMC & ND 
STUDENTS London (May 18-June 17), Rome (June 13-July 12). Classes available in Art, Business & Econ. Education, History, Italian, Philosophy, & Music. Organiza­tional meeting on Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. (london) and 8 p.m. (Rome) in 348 Madeleva. For into, call Prot. A.R. Black (284-4460 or 272-3726). 
Hey Dtllon, Where are your snowballs? Srncerely. Your trrends from Grace 
ATTENTION ALL SMC WOMEN My servtces are ava1lable for Jumor For­mal CONTACT Dash T Studwell at 1633 
HEY BAMA·Get a clue! A certa.n SMCer likes you' (Gtve her a 
HEY ST MARYS' N D women voted 45-o m favor of the freeze N D men-32-"o Vote YES tor the unilateral freeze 
Hr there come nere oflen? 

HEY BIG BROTHER"' Just wanted to WISh you a Happv Valentines Day. Sweetie'' Love you and mtss you lots11 
Sherbv 
Hey DillON. How about some QUICHE to go wrth all the snow you ate? North 
RICK. YA·SO FU,.NY' BONZO 
MARK. 
SET YOUR OWN FREAKING ALARM' 
B 
JOHN. 01o$x?at!!l!at$x!! BRENDAN 
GO IRISH'! BEAT LOUISIANA TECH!' 
HI, ROSEMARY MAY!I! 
BHJiMonogrammed of course)­SOOOIItEEE' Happy 19th btrthday u rowdy RaLorbackr Hope your 10 doesnt equal your age(stnce Ark. 1s 50th tn Ed) We all senously hope you have an 1ntngu­1ng dayl(ln your next hfe) Love y alllots!­Farley 2A Men 
Htegel Beagle--Arkte Archy' Happy Birthday' What s a razorback? Now that you re 19 you re leqal 1n Mtnnesota & VJrgm1a-Foon to VJSJt us? I know!! Wrth your new fortune you can buy a smoke detector 818 & 727 
To Ann1e Hey hey roommate! Its your 
birthday!!! I hope 19 IS one of your best 
years 1esp. s1nce I have to put up w1th 
you) Have a great day. ya razorback! 
Love your rOommate SH 
PS I wonder whose turn 11 IS to call 
ton1gnt 
LOVE STORY LOVE STORY. LOVE STORY SEE IT THIS WEEKEND AT THE K of C 7, 9. AND 11 
MIKE SULLIVAN HAS A NOSE FOR NEWS1Does sports sttnk that bad? 
No. Doyle -Gee do you want some sports wnters to help out With some of your newstaff work? You could use our talent' 
two glass roses to last forever. two hearts as one forever be my valentine. you val­ley grappler and poetry lover love. Jane fonda bernstern p s and rn the end. the love you take lets run away from grap­plmg and JOurnalism for JUSt one day, for one day let the world come to a screech­mg halt. .:~nd then we w1ll return and to­gether scoop and the elkhart bru1ser will conquer the world' 
mar;.,·s n·uddle name 1s enc and he loves 
smc cmx e~nd lt:t s'~a!s potato ch1ps at 
work BUT whf!r~ would a bernste1n be 
w1thP1.Jt a wu-Jdword? nappy valent1ne s 
day to m·1 other (nouce I dtd nnt say better 
or wor:,a. out other . 1M not a sex 1st sumej 
half' nver crty record'S today. watergate 
hOIE'li<~ tOmOIIOW" 
r1co. nco. rrco what can 1 say to the man lhat consrstcntiv 11 mean loud nccaro' Clan t gel dny TJnn ...r'eas, now •st1ll wdnt to b.:; a. nun) .til\ "-.tY happ\ 1 ·d<t~ moan\ Jay:. ••t ,... ·.. J}lllat•· Chip!'! .mtl IXlptart.., to ..:ort1C n~m· 
Gati­
Airt..:'.;gt-'tS: ~ ..,: !ur:ny 
Ami rt:dlly 1tJ.lf'?r t, ..e 
Ht>rP .._.a sn(·r. :!t'em for you 
Tr.at doesn 1 myf'T'I~ well e11her 
Oh. we! I 1 quess. J1rn had a rough nrte 
LH 

The ObserYer Thursday, February 10, 1983 -page 13 
Irish fencers ready for 

Winter
Wayne St. showdown 
By MATIJOHNSON 
SjJOrts Writer 
It does not happen n:rv often that the top two teams in the countrv in any sport meet head on. l'sually, when it happens. it is called "The Showdown." Today. there will he one of these "showdowns" as the rop fencing team in the country, defending champion \l'ayne State, comes to the ACC to face the second hest team in the country in Notre Dame. 
In the previous confrontation he­tween these fencing powers the Irish suffered their lone setback of the year, droppng a tough 1S-12 decision at Wayne State in January. 
In that match, the Irish fenced evenly with the defending national champs throughout. only to lose in the last two hours. 
The Irish, 16-1. are currently riding a wave of success since the loss to Wayne State, amassing eight consecutive victorie~ behind the sterling performances of senior ~arc De.Jon<'S sophomore ~ike Janis, and fre~ ' ·m Jan Tivenius, among others. 
But \l("ayne Stare poses a serious threat to the Irish win streak, and it will take some consistant team play to pull out a win. 
If the Irish are successful in their ninth consecutive match, it would mean more than any of the previous eight. A victory against Wayne State would bolster the confidence of the Irish squad in its quest for a third na­tional championship. 
"We need a victory over Wayne State to convince us that we can win it." said DeCicco. 
• • • Season 
continuedfrom page 9 
Notre Dame had a I2-<f record 
when it headed out to the w·est 
Coast to give two more ranked 
teams a try. It returned hack home 
with a I 2-6 record and wounded 
pride. Two thrashings once again 
reminded the team that it was not 
quite ready. 
"We realized how much we've got 
to do," said DiStanislao. 
What they have to do is make a 
strong showing down the stretch 
when they plav their main Midwest 
competition ti>r a rournament berth. 
Wms over Loyola and Iowa State set 
them on the right track. hut the 
toughest competition lies ahead 
behind Louisiana Tech -with Il­
linois State and Indiana. 
It is hard at th1~ pointm the season 
ro judge ib succe!'>s, hut DiStanislao 
is generalh pleased with her team's 
perfi.Jrmance. 
"The expectation we ( the 
coaches) have is to 1111pro\T from 
game to game and look tor consis­
tencv." she savs. "\\'e w~mt to see tlw 
upperclassmen assume more leader­
ship and we look fur strung perli>r­
mances from individu;~ls. I think we 
got all that." 
The leadership that she was 
looking ti>r has come from ~enior!'> 
Dehhi llen~ln and Sh·.,ri \btvey. 
and junior Teresa .\lullins. llen~Jey 
ha~ started e\TrY game this year. 
scoring verv little hut playing tight 
dekn!->e on the opposition's point 
guard. 
"low. with Loubian<~ Tech stand­
ing in their wav, the Irish are going 
to have to use en:rnhing th<.:v have 
learned in their lmse~ to keep their 
tournament hopes alive. 
[)iStanblao 1s contldent that h~·r 
Leam will do exacrh· that 
"We now kll(n•; what it takes." she 
~3\'~. 
The Irish may not have wlut it takes against a team hke Louisiana Tech. hut then. wh1> dno' The1r mo­ment ol glon will come in the 1W.1r luturc and. when it doe~. team~ like Louisiana Tech will he hoping to knock off ;\;otre Dame. 
Also competing again~t the Irish 

in Michigan
todav will he l niver~ity of \-lichigan­Dearhorn. Last week, hoth the men's and 

just flies by.women's squads cruised to easy vic­tories over Tri-State, Parkside, and 
Pile your friends and your family in the car. load the 
Purdue. 

snowmobiles on the trailer. and head for a place with 
for the women. I2--Y, Charlotte 

miles of beautiful. groomed trails and more good clean 
Albertson won all c:-ight of her hours 

snow and good clean fun than you'll know what to do
to raise her personal record to <f0-H. 

with. Michigan. For snow and ski conditions, call our
Susan \'aldiserri and Sharon DiNicola also fenced well, winning 

24-hour toll-free number. 
seven and eight bouts. respectively. 
For the men, hoth Dejong and Janis turned in spotless S-0 marks for the day. 

t---800---248---5708 
They were not the only ones who had a good day as Rich Daly moved to the twelfth spot on the Irish all­

SayYes to Michigan!
time victory Jist with a 11:3-25 record. 

Good friends will be there 
come hell orhighwater. 
Your friends didn't know a serum from a dropkick. And they obviously didn't know enough to get out of the rain. But they did knmv how much this rugby game meant to you. So they hung in there-downpour and alL 
Now that 
·. -.-~~ 
the game's over, 
make vour best 
move of the dav. 
Lowenbrau for everybody. 

LOwenbriiu.Here's to good friends. 
-

r 
The Observer Thursday, February 1 0, 1983 -page 14 
College basketball 
Say Happy Valentine's Day with a personal 
Carolina readies for UV A 

; ­
-
-
left to put ~pecial emphasis on thb 
one." Smith added. 
The last time the two teams met, 

junior forward Sam Perkins scored 
.36 points, including four offour bas­
kets from beyond the ACC's ex­
perimental three-point fled goal 
semi-circle. 
"Perkins is a great inside player. 

hut he also hit his three-point shots 
against us," said Holland. "It's very 
tough to stop those. We'll have to try 
to keep him from getting a lot ofbas­
kets inside." 
Perkins leads the ACC in three­

point tield goal accuracy, hitring I 0 
of 16 for 62.5 percent. He thinks his 
performance against Sampson last 
time will pump up Sampson even 
more Thursday. 
St. John 75, Georgetown 69 
LANDOVER. Md. (AI') -Chris Mullin scored 2'i points to lead seventh-ranked St. John's over I 'ith­raked -Georgetown .,'i-69 in a Big East Conference game last night. 
:vlullin scored 16 of his points in the second half as the Redmen, who also beat the Hoyas a month ago at Madison Square Garden huilt an eight-point lead and held oft" a Hoya rally in the last minute. 
Center Patrick Ewing scored 21 

points and pulled down I 3 
rebounds for the Hoyas. But Ewing 
spent much of the game on the 
bench with foul trouble and fouled 
out with a minute left.David 
Wingate added 16 points for the 
Hoy as. 
David Russell scored 16 points. 1 I 

in the tlrst half, for the Redmen. 
• • . Swim 

continuedfrom page 16 
Katy Berg and Mimi McKelly will be the team co-captains at the state tournament this weekend. 
"Team spirit and togetherness is important to this team. There is a competative feeling, but it's friendly, not cut-throat,"observed Michielut­ti. 
"Scott is set on having everyone going,". If I don't qualify, I'll have an empty feeling. I'll wish the team good luck and wish that I could go along." remarkedjuckniess. 
"Team spirit has really grown. Everyone here is for everyone else," said Callahan. "We really want everyone to go to the Nationals." 
GUADALAJARA 
SUMMER 
SCHOOL 
University of Amona offers more than 40 courses: anthro­pology, art, bilingual educa­tion, folk music and folk dance, history, political sci­ence, sociology, Span1sh lan­guage and literature and inten­sive Spanish. Six-week ses­siOn. July 4-August 12, 1983. Fully accredited program. Tuition $400. Room and board 1n Mexican home, 
$425. EEO!AA 
Write Guadalajara Summer School 
Robert L. Nugent 205 University of Arizona Tucson 85721 (602) 626-4729 

MUSIC FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY 
3HOURS OF DANCINS FOR f150 "lCHIANAS LARSEST "OBILE "USIC SERVICE REQUESTS TAKEN 
~ 
MUSIC MACHINE BUD HALL 679-4043
~ 

GMAT 
Exam ReviewCourse 
Starts February 21 Call 237:-4191 for registration information IUSB Continuing Education 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. (AI') -been at Virginia, the Tar Heels have Armed with plenty of motives for beaten the Cavaliers five of nine revenge, third-ranked Virginia vhib times. Virginia has a 9-l record top-ranked North Carolina Thursday when Sampson scored .30 points or night in a battle ofteams both streak­more. The blemish on that slate is his ing toward the NCAA playoff.~. .30-point efti>ft in a 6'i-60 loss to the 
Virginia Coach Terry Holland says Tar Heels last season. there's no need to tag it as a "Game North Carolina was at the .500 of the Century." mark in its tlrst six games and the 
"We've been in so many show­reigning national champions soon downs the last three seasons, I think found themselves out of The As­· it's going to be hard to think of it in sociated Press college basketball 
those terms," Holland said. poll. But Tar Heels Coach Dean Smith Following an H4-74 loss to Tulsa, is preparing his team ti>r a real fight. the Tar Heels ran off I 7 straight vic­
"They're on a roll. I don't think tories to give Smith his 13th straight anybody could have done to Louis­20-win season, an NCAA record. ville what they did to them," Smith North Carolina is undefeated in said ofthe Cavaliers' 9H-H I thrashing seven league contests. of the Cardinals last month. "It will Enhancing North Carolina's 20-.3 be a battle. We have a chance." record was last weekend's sweep of 
The Cavaliers, 19-2 and "7-1 in the the Furman and Citadel, but Smith Atlantic Coast Conference, are has reminded his team that they riding a seven-game winning streak aren't exactly in Virginia's class. 
which began li>llowing a I 0 l-9'i loss Smith said it's too early to put any to the Tar Heels in Charlottesville. special emphasis on this game, al­Virginia still remembers last season's though berths in the NCAA regional -47-45 loss to Carolina in the finals of competition could be determined the ACC tournament. by the game. 
While 7-foot-"-1 Ralph Sampson has "We've got too many tough games 
BeforeWe PutYou In Charge Of TheWorld's 
Most Sophisticated Nuclear Equipment, 
We PutYouThroughTheWorld's Most Sophisticated NuclearTraining. 
It takes more than 16 
that most of the men months of intensive who operate the training to become a reactors in private fully qualified officer in industry started in the the Nuclear Navy. You Nuclear Navy.) begin with four months It takes more time of leadership training. and more effort to Then as a Navy officer become an officer in the you get a full year of Nuclear Navy. But the graduate-level training rewards are greater, too. unavailable anywhere else at any price. The rew&frds can begin as early as 
Navy training is based on more than your junior year in college. Qualify, and 1900 reactor-years of experience. Right the Navy will pay you approximately now the Navy operates over half the $1000/month while you finish school. nuclear reactors in America. And the After four years, with regular Navy's nuclear equipment is the most promotions and salary increases, you can sophisticated in the world. That's why be earning as much as $40,500. That's on your Navy training is and must be the top of a benefits package that includes most sophisticated in the world. medical and dental care, and 30 days' 
As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, vacation earned every year. More you have decision-making authority responsibility, more money, more future. immediately. You get important manage­So, if you're majoring in math, ment responsibility engineering or the
r ;:;;V~~;;U-;;;T;-----;;; 1
fast. Because in the physical sciences, and 
INFORMATION CENTER 
I

Navy, as your knowl­I P.O. Box 5000. Clifton, NJ 07015 you want to know more 
edge grows, so does I D Please send me more information about I about a future in 
becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy. t0N)your responsibility. nuclear power, fill in 
I 1
Name__v=~--<rn==<c~---.~----­
First IPlease Print) Last 1 Address Apt. II___ 
Your training and I the coupon. 
experience place you Today's Nuclear 
I I
City State Zip__
among the country's Navy is an opportunity
I Age tCollege/University I
most qualified profes­like no other in the 
:j:Year in College tGPA
sionals. (No surprise world.
I &Major/Minor:_______________ 1 
I I
Phone Number 

I 
(Area Code) Best Time to Call This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to 
I 

furfiish any of the information requested. Of course. the more we know. the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi-
J 
tions for which you qualify.

L ----------­
NavyOfficersGetResponsibilityFast. 
Ihee~Kerver~======================================= 
~~4()l~~==========================T=h=u=r=sd=a=y=,F=e=b=r=u=ary==1=0=,=1=9=8=3===p=a=g=e=1==5 

Berke Breathed 


Simon Jeb Cashin 

Fate Photius 

ACROSS 25 Fire: pref. 1 Attila 26 By means of 4 Sharp 27 Perfume 
flavors with odors 
9 Dull 31 Squealed 13 Destroyed 32 Algonquian 15 Sub 33 Irons of 16 River in the screen 
Italy 34 Ms. Claire 
17 Onetime 35 Sounded pitcher, • gently Schoolboy-37 Tolstoi 
18 Mardi Gras title word site 38 "Barney 
20 Word on Miller" some pack-. star ages 40 Fate 
22 Go-between 41 Pound of 23 Bad or mad poetry 
follower 42 Burdened 24 Campus 43 Two-year officials old sheep 
The Daily Crossword 
Wednesday's Solution 
© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 2110/83All Rights Reserved 

2110/83 
Campus 
•12 
-4 p.m. -Government Career Day, Lafortune Ball Room, Sponsored by Placement Bureau, 

•12:
15 p.m. -Fihn, "Roses in December," Center for Social Concerns, Free 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "The Unity of Mankind ­the Disunity of Anthropology," Prof. Robin Fox, Library Auditorium 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Multiplet States of Small Molecules," Dr. John L Hardwick, Conference Theatre Radiation Lab 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Ethnic Parish As Com­promise: Spheres ofAuthority in a Polish American Parish," Prof. Mary Cygan, Library Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Tours of the Snite Museum, For Dillon, Walsh, and Badin Halls 

•6: 
15 p.m. -Fihn, "Valley Curtain,' Annenberg Auditorium 

•6:30 
and 9:15 p.m. -Fihn, "Richard lll," Ar­chitecture Auditorium, Sponsored by Shakeseare Club and English Department 

•6:30 
p.m. -An Evening ofDances and Music, Folk Dances from Pakistan, LaFortune Ballroom 

•7 
p.m. -Fihn, "Running Fence," Annenberg Auditorium, Free 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:)0 p.m. -Fihn, "Brubaker," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Women's GolfTeam S1 

• 
7 p.m. -Black Cultural Arts Festival,"Portrait of an Artist," John Amos, Library Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Women and Fihn Series, "Girl Friends," Carroll Hall. Sponsored by SAPB, S I 


T.V. Tonight 
8p.m.  16  Fame  
22  Magnum PI  
28  Greatest American Hero  
34  All Creatures Great and Small  
9p.m.  16  Gimme A Break  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  The Winds of War  
34  Mystery  
10p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
34  Sneak Previews  
llp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Indiana Lawmakers  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Quincy and McCloud  
28  ABC Ne::ws Nightline  

The Far Side 

tempers rise. 

11 -Domini 12 Navy man 14 Hinge 19 Cut 21 "-was 

saying" 24 Edged, like stationery 25 City in 
Michigan 26 Skillet 28 Welling· 
ton's land 29 Shrewd 30 Wild cat 31 Cash box 32 Go astray 33 -set 35 Right of 
holding 36 Timber 39 French 
composer 41 Prized fur 43 Noonday 
meal 44 Saloon 46 Ciphers 47 Sierra­48 Pismires 49 Pike's­50 Distorted 51 Fox or 
Rabbit 
52 Floor covering, for short 

53 In the dis· tance 55 Harem room 
-

~'""~.,.,~,:)!5e.{~J>111()!1£{•~·~~~~·JiaX·~,. 
~ Go skiing for the nigh' G.;L -~­~ with the Student Union! .·~· Clly ~::~:..:::. .~ i ~ ~·FI>Ol I
I I • '--313 ,;:" Where?. Swiss Valley Ski Resort in Michigan ····(
,Lans,ng_,.._ 
~ When? This Friday, Feb 11 ,... r:·""'·, .... _ I 
~ ~:=t~i:~~ ~~;~~~~~:~::l~t, rentals, and transport~~:n I 
... Tickets a_r_e on sale at the record store, 1st floor, LaFo_rtune ' 
~~~~ oeti~~~:2::li:son~-~ . 1111'-~J
l 
44 Harte 45 Clear 47 Household 
lady 
48 "-star· cross'd lovers" 
51 Impure soda 54 City in Mass. 56 Unsophisti­cated 57 Biblical 
weed 58 Down 59 City in 
Sicily 60 "The-the 
Limit" 61 Entrap 62 "Le Coq -" 
DOWN 1 Dwellon 2 Wife in 
Rom a 3 Six states 4 African 
capital 5 Not up 6 Forthwith 7 Warden, in 
England 8 Groove 9 Authorof 
"Sister Carrie" 
10 Cartoonist Gardner et al. 

knior Bar I 
G~ lllarmup fnr tQt llleektnll witQ nur I 
I :§c4napp's :§v.erial!! II ~ 
open 9:30-2:00 
I

_____________________________.....~

Thursday, February 10, 1983 -page 16
~orts 
Fordham tonight 
Irish take on an old rival 
... 
By RICH O'CONNOR year and we also played poorly in The only Ram scorer averaging in Sports Writer our game at the Meadowlands last double figures is 6-2 guard David season, so we'd like to change both Maxwell. A steady senior. Maxwell is 
EAST RUTHERFORD. N.J. -Mec­those things around this time. averaging 14.8 points a game while ca. Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps "Tommy Penders has done a great also leading the team in rebounding. has long referred to the New York job of putting them back on the bas­Maxwell will be joined at the metropolitan area as a "Mecca" for ketball map again. They got a taste of guard position by Jerry Hobbie. The top-flight college basketball. beating us last year. and I'm sure 6-2 junior brings a six-point career 
Tonight, hoping that a strong they'd like to do it again in front of scoring average into the game while showing against the Rams could their own fans." functioning as the Rams' playmaker. pave the way for an NCAA tourna­Seven players who saw action in The forward position is a problem 
ment bid, Phelps brings his young last year's game return for fifth-year 
See RAMS, page 12 
team into the nation's media capital coach Penders. to face an old rival. Fordham Univer­sity. 
Twelve years ago, a young, 
SMC swimmers try
streetsmart coach named Digger Phelps gained his first head coaching assignment at Fordham, a jesuit uni­
for improved times 
versity in the Bronx. He took his first team to the NCAA Eastern Regional, 
By MARY SIEGER make it -they've been working so
finishing with a 26-3 record ­
Saint Marv's Spm·ts Editor hard," commented Trees.
• mcluding a win against a team from 
''I'm feeling lots of pressure right
South Bend. Ind. 
Tommorow, the Saint Mary's now. I can make it if I set my mind toBut the following year, Notre swim team will begin its journey to it and get motivated for this
Dame lured the young coach away 
the state invitational swim tourna­weekend. I think it would upset usfrom the eastern school. Starting ment at DePauw University. The all if we all couldn't go to the Nation­from scratch, Phelps finished that Belles hope to capture tlfth place in als as a team," remarkedjuckniess.
year with a record of6-20, including the tournament and will be compt­In addition to getting these threea 9-i-29 humiliation at the hands of ing against teams form every divi­swimmers qualified, Trees hopes to
Indiana and a loss to his former sion. including Notre Dame. get the rest of his team qualified in
employers. "We are not trying to get a great more events in the Nationals. At this
In every year since then, the Rams number of team points in this meet, time, Mimi McKelly, Noreen Cal­have already qualified for the Na­Belles. Although Michielutti has
from Fordham have been an op­but ourswimmers will be swimming lahan and jenni Wilson have only tionals are merely auempting to im­qualitled for the Nationals, she will
ponent ofthe Irish. Onlv twice in all these years has Fordham emerged 
against the clock." said Belles head qualified for relay events. prove their times and prepare be unable to accompany the Belles victorious. coach Scott Trees. "Our goal is not to have our girls themselves for the Nationals at this because her senior comprehensive One of those victories came last 
At this time, the Belles are quality only in relay events," says tournament. opens on the same weekend as the season in the ACC. A Fordham squad attempting to get three more of its Trees. "We want our swimmers to "I don't want our swimmers to go National Tournament. that was to finish at 18-11 and gain team members qualified for the Na­quality in individual events and to out there and look at the person "It was a hard decision to make. an invitation to the NIT jumped out tional Association for Intercollegiate have more well-rounded swim­next to her and say, 'I have to beat but art is my life and I have been to a 31-19 halftime lead en route to a Athletics (NAJA) National Tourna­mers." this person,"' said Trees. ','I would working toward my senior com­
-65-50win. ment. The Nationals, which will be McKelly, Callahan and Wilson prefer to see them say to themselves, prehensive for four years," ex­
Once again Phelps expects to held on March 4-6 in Arkadelphia, concurred that the pressure they are 'I have to beat my time."' plained Michielutti. have his hands full with the Rams, Ark., will be the keynote of the feeling at this time is the pressure "I want to see our times improve Throughout the season, the Belles who now stand at 12-9 this year and Belles season. that is being generated form within now. Faster times mean better pos­have rotated their co-captains at are beginning to play better basket­Of the five team members who themselves. They agreed that neit­tions at the Nationals and will im­every meet. This shift in respon­ball. have not yet qualified for the Nation­her the team nor any other outside prove our chances of doing well," sibilty has helped some of the 
"Fordham started slow. but als, senior Katy Berg and freshmen factor was pressuring them. added Trees. younger team members in the meets they've really turned thngs around Kathleen Juckniess and Barb Trees as well as the team mem­For senior art major Angie Mic­and has unified the team. Seniors the last few weeks." says Phelps. Blanchette are the closest to hitteing bers regard this tournament as a hielutti, the state tournament will be 
see SWIM, page 14

"They beat us at home badly last their qualifYing times. "I hope they "fun" meet. The swimmers who her final competative swim with the 

Sophomore guard Dan Duff, shown here in action in last Satur­day's game against South Carolina, will start tonight's Fordham game. Duff is part of Digger Phelps' new lineup. Rich O'Connor previews the game at the left. (Phoro by Scorr Bower). 
For Mary D., the best is yet to come 
Or: What's a tough little brat from New Jersey doing at a nice school like ND? 
By CHRIS NEEDLES she can teach basketball and she can Dame) of starting out in relative .\ports Editor .coach basketball. She's instilled her obscurity. You start out with all eyes evep temperament and discipline in on you." 
Mary DiStanislao sits, legs crossed, her players, and they execute on The words come slowly, from a addressing a small but attentive both ends of the floor. woman who is far from shy and crowd at Alumni Hall. She talks "We interviewed the coaches reserved -heck, she's Italian -but about her women's basketball team, from Penn, Rutgers, Northwestern somehow finds it uncomfortable to of which she is in her third year of -schools that are similar academi­talk about herself to her visitor. building. cally to Notre Dame. Judging by her With two-time defending national 
With an accent that after all these success at Northwestern and her in­champion Louisiana Tech visiting years is still vintage New jersey, she terest in the program, there was tomorrow night, Mary D. and her tells stories and cracks jokes -little doubt that she was the person team are the centers of attention on 
sounding very much like joan we would hire. campus for the first time. For her Rivers. Cynical. Hardened. Someone "What she has done," Phelps con­players, it will be a new experience; who has seen the bad times and the tinues, "is, one, to bring credibility but DiStanislao has been through it good, and keeps it all in proper to the program. Two, she has all before. 
perspective. recruited the right student-athletes, After a year as an assistant to Cathy 
Interestingly enough, two of the the ones that belong at Notre Dame. Rush at powerful Immaculata Col­listeners in the audience -fresh­And third, they're getting better and lege in suburban Philadelphia, DiS­men Lynn Ebben and Denise Basford more competitive on the Division I tanislao was appointed head coach -are players on DiStanislao's team. level. It's only a matter of time until at Northwestern -a school whose 
Don't they get tired ofseeing their they become a Top 20 team." women's sports programs were coach, and hearing her yell at them, even worse than its men's. every day? Isn't that the way it's "One day Cathy Rush got a call
• 

supposed to be? from the AD at Northwestern saying "No way," says Ebben. "We'n: all they'd created a full-time coaching
"Hmmm, streettlghter ...yeah, in this together, and I just enjoy position," recalls DiStanislao. "And
he may have a point there," says DiS­hearing her talk -about anything. tanislao, lounging on a sofa in her they wondered if she'd be in­She's a great lady." terested. She said no, but put her
ACC office. "I think I'm a very com­hand over the phone and sa•d to me,
petitive person. I like to protect my
• turf: I like to enlarge my turf. 'Would you be interested in a job at "She's a streettlghter," says Digger "You've gotta work hard. This is 
Northwestern?' And I said some­thing like, 'Where's that. Indiana?' or
Phelps who, as Notre Dame's coor­an interesting situation to be in, be­'Is that where the Cleavers' live?'
... dinator of varsity basketball, hired cause in reality you're building a DiStanislao. "Nobody's going to program from the ground up. You 
See MARY D, page 9

walk on her. She kno"' . basketball, don't have the luxury (at Notre 





