
• • • Scream -page 3 

VOL. XVII, NO. 133 the:: indt:pt:ntknt ~tude::nt ne::w~pape::r ~t:rving notre:: Jamt: and ~aint mary's THURSDAY,APRIL21, 1983 

Reston kicks off Red Smith lectures 
By GRETCHEN PICHLER that in washington." and MIKE RICCARDI Reston eulogized Smith, saying, StaffReporters "He had a gift of writing serious 
things in an amiable way, and with­
"The political reporter may get an out rancor. He mastered the art of argument if he's wrong. The sports criticism without hurting people, or writer will get a punch in the nose," leaving a drop of-poison in his said New York Times syndicated wake." 
columnist James Reston last night in Examining the place of politics in his lecture on the relevance of sports today, Reston replied,'' I think sports writing to political writing. it is unavoidable. The day of the Reston spoke in the inaugural Red amateur has been gone for years." 
Smith Lecture in Journalism, a He used as an example the Olympic presentation honoring the reporter games, which he said is largely an considered by many to be one of opportunity for participating na­
America's foremost sportswriters tions to propagandize their until his death earlier this year. 
countries. Smith, a 1927 Notre Dame alumnus, Reston also gave advice as he ex­is the only sportswriter to have won plained his process for writing a a Pulitzer Prize for commentary. column. "I keep in mind an intel­Father Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­ligent friend, and I write him a let­
versity President, introduced ter," he explained. "When writing, Smith's son,-Terence, who then in­be honest -be faithful to what you troduced Reston, saying, "He has an believe." He added that there is 

incurable, incorrigible case of jour­"nothing more deadly in a column nalism -he is journalism out of than being anticipated." control." Reston concluded by proclaiming Reston's syndicated, twice-"I am the last optimist in Washing­New York Times columnist james Reston ex­ton!"
weekly "Washington" column ap­
amines the obligationsofthesports writeras Uni­
pears in newspapers around the Prior to his lecture, Reston, held a 
versity President Father Theodore Hesburgh looks 
world, and he has won two Pulitzer press conference at the Center for Prizes for distinguished reporting. Continuing Education. 

Help to parents Contrastingsports to politics, Res­Accompanied during the latter ton said,"Ifa coach keeps losing, the halfof the session by Terence Smith, athletic department gets rid of him. Reston discussed, among other 
In Washington, recruiting and firing things, Ronald Reagan's political 

are remarkably casual." He said that future and Richard M. Nixon's ap­By CAROL CAMP of child abuse: that child abuse is a his suspicions to the proper authori­although his own field was interna­pearance last night in LaPorte. SeniorStaffReporter social problem which is treatable ties. tional news, during the course ofhis Nixon, appeari~g at a Republican 
and preventable. Munlin outlined the procedure career, "sports played a more impor­fundraiser, had barred the press Contrary to popular opm10n, After tracing the development of which is followed in the investiga­tant part in our lives than we from attending the function, citing parents who abuse their children are attitudes concerning child abuse, tion of child abuse cases in South realized. It was the only thing left the comfort ofthe audience. not "demons;" rather, they are Welch then cited four primary Bend. First, the County Department that was definite. They have empires "Certainly, .ut a fund raiser, "individuals who need help causes of abuse: situational stress who can settle conflicts with the developing more acceptable ways of factors ( ie., unemployment); at­See ABUSE, page 4 wave of a hand; I wish we could do See RESTON, page 8 parenting." titudes and values (including The above statement was made by prevailing social attitudes conerning South Bend's Supervisor for Child discipline, children, and violence); 
Panel discusses child abuse issue 
Go Irish suit 
Protective Services Larine Munlin individual capacities (namely, an in­yesterday during a panel discussion dividual's mental and physical on child abuse which was sponsored health, intelligence, personality, and 

Court rejects ND injunction plea 
by the Law School's White Center previous experiences); and social or for the Study of Law and Govern­institutional values (especially the By MIKE WILKINS to the word "Irish" when it is used in the off-season. ment. availability or lack thereof of day SeniorStaffReporter reference to Notre Dame football, Faccenda said that if the judge felt 
Discussion panelists JoAnne care services, counseling, etc.). said Philip Faccenda, legal the original suit would be.cleared up Welch, Executive Director of Child No single factor causes child The University's request for an in­representive for the University. The by the time Go Irish starts publish­Abuse and Neglect Coordinating abuse; rather, "there is usually a junction to prohibit the magazine University was attempting to show ing weekly again, he would be less 
Organization-CANCO; Jane Miller, combination of factors which Go Irish from printing in its current that the name Go Irish made people likely to grant the injunction. an attorney and guardian ad litem; precipitate the abuse," Welch form was denied Tuesday in Starke associate the publication with Notre 
The original suit, which was filedand Munlin each described their stated. County Circuit Court. Dame. 

by Fan Action in September, allegesrespective roles in juvenile cases. In Another interesting observation Notre Dame sought an injunction Faccenda said that he is not that the Sports Information Depart­addition to detailing the psychologi­Welch made during her presenta­as part of a counter-suit against o:;o surprised with the ruling because ment was interfering with the nor­cal reasons for abuse, each also sum­tion was that fundamentalist Irish. The request was denied be­the injunction was an 

mal business function ofGo Irish. 

marized the role of the cou·rts in religious groups often encourage cause of a lack of evidence to sup­"extraordinary request." He noted instances ofchild abuse. abuse through strict adherence to port such a move, according to that the request was made in the Groves said that Go Irish would 
Welch began the discussion by the traditional "spare the rod, spoil James Groves, attorney for Fan Ac­middle of the football season, when continue printing while awaiting the describing the three stages which the child" philosophy. She substan­tion, Inc., publishers of Go Irish, an Go Irish was printing every week. outcome of the original suit. "We American society has experienced tiated this allegation by explaining independent magazine which He added, however, that the judge will make ·an effort to cooperate in the attempt to confront the that socie t ty's attitudes concerning covers ND football. probably took into consideration with the University and hopefully 
problem of child abuse. First, in­both discipline and children have a Court action was taken because the fact that the publication was on­resolve this somewhere down the stances of abuse were vehemently significant impact upon the in­Notre Dame want~ exclusive rights ly being printed every month during road." denied by both the parties involved cidence ofabuse in that society. as well as by friends and neighbors. For example, Sweeden and After this initial denial occurred, the several Western European nations 
Nuclear power setback 
existence of the problem was ack­have far fewer child abuse cases be­nowledged by state legislatures cause these countries have either which passed laws authorizing the outlawed capital punishment, or 



States may ban plant construction~ 
removal of abused children from abandoned the practice of corporal their homes and imprisonment of punishment. In comparison, an WASHINGTON (AP) -In a major ing a 1976 California mo"ratorium on In other decisions yesterday, the the offending parents. American child witnesses more than setback to the nuclear power in­new atomic power plants, industry court: 
According to Welch, this 18,000 violent murders by watching dustry, the Supreme Court ruled spokesmen tried to play down its im­Declared unconstitutional a "punitive attitude" prevailed for al­television before he reaches his yesterday that states can ban con­pact. federal law that banned most eighty years. As researchers eighteenth birthday. struction of new plants until the "It's not the death knell for demonstrators from the public learned more about the characteris­Munlin discussed in detail the federal government devises a safe nuclear power," said Linda Hodge, sidewalks surrounding the court's tics of child abusers, however, they provisions of Indiana's mandatory way to dispose ofradioactive waste. counsel for the Atomic Industrial own building on Capitol Hill. The 
· realized that_permanently removing reporting law. Although laws The Reagan administration had Forum. justices said it violates free speech to children from their homes caused pertammg to the_ reporting of in­argued that allowing states to Robert Dobkin, a spokesman for ban pickets from the sidewalks. them to become "emotional stances of child abuse vary from prohibit new plants could seriously the same trade group, said there is Said government officials who are cripples." During the past twenty state to state, Indiana's statute re­jeopardize the growth of nuclear not likely to be any immediate im­sued successfully may be forced to years, researchers have discovered quires any individual who suspects power as a source ofelectricity. pact on the 57 nuclear plants already 
See NUKES, page 4

another dimension to the problem the occurrence of abuse to report But after the 9-0 decision, uphold-under construction nationwide. 





INews Briefs 
Thursday, April 21, 1983 -page 2 
Ill-/he ( >hsert•er and /he Associated Press 
Acolloquiumfocusing on "Social Change in Mexico" at Notre Dame last fall has won a national award for creative program­ming at the meeting of the National University Continuing Educa­tion Association in Reno, Nev. Thomas Bergin, dean of continuing education, accepted the award on behalf of the center, the Depart­ment of Modern and Classical Languages, and the Helen Kellogg In­stitute for International Studies. Authors, literary critics and academic scholars participated in the two-part colloquium held last October and November where Mexican writers joined in a discus­sion of poverty, political distrust and interplay of oligarchic inter­ests. The colloquium was directed by Dr. Jose Anadon of the language department, Father Ernest Bartell of the Kellogg Institute, and James Powell of the Continuing Education Office. -The Ob­server 
The 1983 Dome editorial board has an­
nounced their selection ofJane Bennett, a junior Finance major from Atlanta, Georgia, as Editor-in-Chief of the 1984 Dome. Bennett served as a Sports Editor on the 1983 yearbook and was a two-time editor ofher high school yearbook. Anyone interested in working on the I984Dome in photography, layout, copy, or staff, please contact the new editor as soon as possible. The I983 edition of the Dome will arrive on campus tomorrow. Distribution will begin at II a.m. and continue through 4 p.m. Students must show a Notre Dame un­dergraduate I.D. card to pick up their yearbooks at Stepan Courts. ­
The Observer 

The "Lookingfor Mr. Goodbar"contest was 
resolved yesterday morning when Chip Block, a senior from Stan­ford, was the frrst to find the Mr. Goodbar candy wrapper hidden in the drain in the reflecting pool in front of Memorial Library. The contest, which was sponsored by the An Tostal Committee, published its third clue in The Observer yesterday. Block receives a dinner for two at Tippecanoe Place Restaurant for sglving the mys­tery first. -The Observer 
Singer Paul McCartney was ordered by a West Berlin court Tuesday to pay S282 a month to a woman who claims to be his illegitimate daughter, pending the outcome ofa paternity suit. The Schoeneberg District Court said McCartney must make the pay­ments to Bettina Huebers, 20, retroactive to Sept. 29, 1982, when the suit was filed, until the matter is settled. McCartney has denied being Huebers' father. -AP 
Production workersat the tiny Avanti Motor Corp. in South Bend are slated to vote next month on whether to accept union representation by the United Auto Workers. Avanti's owner blames a few disgruntled and discharged workers for the organiza­tional campaign but a UAW official says the majority of hourly workers at the luxury sports car plant have expressed interest in unionization. "I'm not concerned about it," said Stephen H. Blake, chairman and owner of Avanti, where sleek, high-powered cars are made largely by hand. Avanti is the nation's only non-union, U.S. owned carmaker. Blake said the organizing effort, which began late last year, stems from the company's suspension and firing of some 
employees whose work was not considered satisfactory. William Nichols, an organizer for the UAW regional office in Mishawaka, noted that about "70 percent of the company's hourly worker!> have signed cards indicating an interest in UAW representation. The facility has some 140 workers. most of them production and main­tenance employees. The plant makes about one Avanti car per day. Nichols said he was confident that the workers will vote in favor of 
theUAW. -AP 

Forner President Richard Nixon expressed 
his \'iews on foreign policy to a sold-out Republican in LaPorte, Ind., 
last night. Only the holders of some -tOO SSO-apiece tickets were 
privileged to hear Nixon's comments at the LaPorte Holiday Inn. 
Others, including local reporters, had to content themselves with 
seeing Nixon as he arrived and departed. "It is an off-the-record ses­
sion with no (media) coverage," Nixon's chief of staff, Nicholas 
Ruwe said last week. There were reports that some members of the 
news media had obtained tickets to the gathering but it was not 
known if they would be allowed to take notes. Nixon's appearance was billed as "An Evening with Richard Nixon," sponsored by the LaPorte County Republican Party. For their SSO, those in attendance were to hear Nixon speak on current world affairs and then get a chance to ask questions. The p~thering was sold out weeks ago. Nixon was slated to fly into Chi• .::0's O'Hare Airport yesterday and then be driven to LaPorte. He was also supposed to attend a private gathering at the home of Rep. John Hiler's brother in LaPorte. Ruwe said Hiler had asked Nixon to appear at the fund-raiser on behalf of the county GOP organization. Several of Indiana's leading Republican politicians were not expected to be on hand, however. Gov. Robert D. Orr; Sens. Richard G. Lugar, and Dan Quayle had previous commitments and Hiler himselfwas in Washington on con­gressional business. -AP 
The sun should be shining today with a high in 
mid 50s. Fair and very cool tonight with a low around 30. Increasing -cloudiness Friday and a little warmer. High in low 60s. -A 
Blowing a reputation 
Horror, shock, anger: these are some ofthe emotions being felt around America following the bombingofour embassy in Beirut. Like the capture of our Tehran Em­bassy in 1919, this most recent action against our country has left many people with a feeling ofviolation. 
As Americans we tend to perceive ourselves as the good guys ofthe world. We are the ones in the right, on the side of peace and liberty and all that other good stuff. Thus when something so seemingly unprevoked is done against our national soul, we are not only angered, but also hurt and confused. 
Unfortunately, the rest of the world does not share our rosy view. For many nations, we are simply friends by necessity. Among these are fellow democracies. Despite frequent differences, the leaders of these na­tions are familiar with the theory of strength in num­bers. Other nations are mere leeches upon us. These nations, for one reason or another, fear domination by another world power. All too often, however, the U.S. 
ends up supporting regimes 

that are not entirely above political trends. Not one, not board in their methods or two, but hundreds of morality. Any nation that is religious factions are vying willing to be our friend can for what they think is their be one regardless of its per­share. We are highly visible sonality. Along with the supporters of Isreal. Whose good eggs are the bad ones: military tactics are just as the Viet Nams of foreign deplorable as its enemies, policy that tarnish our the arabs. Since the 1973 oil image. shortage, Arabs in general 
Our presence is felt in have been the targets of every country of the world. widely accepted racism in The focal point in many this country. countries is often an Despite our noble inten­monolithic embassy that is tions for peace, our marines all to symbolic of a deeper in Beirut are seen by many as image problem. Under the just another manifestation of guise of "National Interest," our imperialistic ways. The the U.S. often attempts to ~,..___ various Moslem sects from 
dominate the local affairs of a region in order to best suit us. We cannot see how any country could not cherish our benevolent influence. Much of this stems from our national conscience. Studies have shown Americans to be among the most content people in the world. Now ifwe are happy, why shouldn't everyone else be? 
In many parts of the world, we are not viewed favorably. In Europe, traditionally a friendly continent with many spending opportunities for tourists, a growing number qf citizens are angered by our efforts to place new nuclear missles there. Many Europeans do not really care how much we get out ofan arms treaty; they would prefer messages of peace rather than hos­tility. They know that, should the U.S. and the Soviets go to war, large scenic chunks ofEurope would be the first vaporized. 
What is the most frequent reason given for our in­volvement in Central America? The Domino Theory. This is a theory especially popular with those people 
[The_Ohs.erYer_ 
TillS STAFF IS FOR TilE BIRDS 
Desil!-11 Editor.... ....... ·Eagle' Ncely 
Desi!!.n Assistant................'Canary' Clark 
l.a)'out Stan: .......... 'Two:cty-llird' l.augier 
1)1u!setters .. . . ...... 'Toucan' Jim 
·whoppoorwill' Ruthcrl(>rd 
Nell'S Editor. .......... 'Cardinal' Harrington 
Copv Editor... ....... ·\1ockingbird' Camp 
Editorials Layout..... ..... 'Tanagt:r' Tari 
.\jJorts Copy Editor ..... 'Bahimurt' Oriole' 
Sullivan NIJ Day Bditm·. .............. ·Flamingo· Baily S,UC /Juy L'ditor... ............. 'Tanager' again 
Tvpists... ·Ycllow-hdlied Sap-sucker· Por­
ter Ad Design ........ 'Road-runner· Larkin Pboto!!.rapher. .................. 'Hawk' Wachter 
Guest Appearances... ·oown-">ft' Rabbit, 
'Buzzard' Oakley, 'I>enguin' Riccardi, 
'Dead Parrot' Needles, A Dodo and a 
Loqn and other droppings.•• 
\\\ I I/,. 
:::8~~ ... arJ bi\1 'V~ thE' finch. .


_)A./__ 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) IS publiShed Monday through Fr1day except durmg exam and vaca110n per1ods The Observer IS published by the studenls of Notre Dame and Sa tnt Marys College Subswpt1ons 'T1ay be purchased for $30 per year i$15 per semester) by wntlngTheOb­server, P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame ln­d,ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of the Assoc1ated Press -All reproductiOn ngnts are reserved 

After your last exam, what toughquestions will you still be facing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood. the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in commu!lity. 
II 
Contacl 
Rev. Andre Leveille. C.S.C. Vocat1on Director 
Box 541 
Notro Dame. IN 46556 
219-239-6385 

Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor Emeritus · 
Inside Thursday 

who believe communists lurk under their beds. This 
theory purports that, should one country down south 
go commie, all the others will too -in a line that would 
end on our doorstep. We are not even subtle about our 
motives. The message we give is, "We want you people peaceful so that we won't have to worry about commie cooties up here. Oh, and should your country find iself better off as a result ofour security, well that's quite all right." 
The Middle East is a quagmire that could strand even 
the most ardent follower of 
Iran certainly have no love for us, our presence is a thorn in their side. From the twisted point of view of the terrorist, the bombing of our embassy was logical. Beirut has been the focal point of our high-minded efforts for peace. Where there is peace there is little to gain for the radical. Thus the people responsible hope to not only embarrass us, but to instigate, as some members of Congress as now doing, a withdrawal from the region. 
Although despicable, we should not let this tragedy deter us from the cause ofpeace. On the other hand, we should remember, the best intentions lose their glow when they are int1ected with a hammer. 

Observer note______, 
The Observer is always lookingfor new talent. If you are interested in newspaper writing or newspaper production, stop up at The Observer office on the 3rd floor of the LaFortune Student Center. ' 
The Observer Thursday, April21, 1983-page 3 

ROTC cadets march in '83 review as part of Tri-Military festivities 
By DAN MCCULLOUGH 
Senior StaffReporter 
Ten percent of the student body was out marching behind the Ath· letic and Convocation Center yes· terday afternoon. 
The Presidential Review highlighted Tri·Military week, a demonstration of unity and sense of commitment by the Reserved Of~ fleer Training Corps (ROTC) cadets oi Notre Dame. 
Retired Air Force Chaplain Father Edmund J. Murray opened the Tri­Military events Sunday with a joint Mass for the cadets of all four branches of ROTC -Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines. More than 100 members of the ROTC com· munity attended the Mass in full uni· form, re-establishing the ND 
tradition of Tri-Military Union in prayer begun in 1956. 
Yesterday, the cadets ·were en­couraged to wear their uniforms from dawn until dusk as "a display of honorable respect for the uniform emphasizing the importance ofofof­ficer training as a part of the Univer­sity curriculum," according to Cadet Major Michael J. Kelly of the Air Force. 
Culminating Tri-Military week was the Presidential Review, which took place in the Red East parking lot behind the ACC yesterday after­noon. All of the cadets enrolled at the University were required to march in the review. Provost Timothy O'Meara stood in for Father Theodore Hesburgh, the customary residing officer, who was detained on business in Houston, Texas. 
"This was a once-in-a-lifetime deal for many of our cadets," said Lieutenant Frederick Fisher of the Air Force, who coordinated Tri­Military week. "It instilled an esprit de corps, pumped up the morale." 
Top cadets were presented with awards by the Provost, while the U.S. Army band from Fort Benjamin Har­rison, Indiana provided musical en­tertainment. 
"They were a fine group of young men and women of whom the Uni­versity should be proud," com­mented O'Meara. "Our ethical values are developed by all walks of life, but especially by the armed forces. This is particularly important since the weapons of destruction being used today are so potentially fatal." 
'Unofficial' commission 

P A TC fights for campus scream 
By CECILIA LUCERO Despite the "good participation last given them the reasons why." Senior StaffReporter year," Perez said that "the ad­The PATC czar described the ad­ministration didn't want to have it ministration's stand on the issue as a 
Through the efforts of a covert because it disrupted all the activities "baby-sitter type'' position. "I think People's An Tostal Commission ofstudying on campus. it's pret;y sad," he said. (PATC), the annual Campus Scream "People that are trying to study at Perez conceded that he "can see -officially ousted from the An Tos­night are bothered by all the scream­why they (PATC) would want to tal schedule of events -will ing and yelling," Perez continued. keep it going. Tradition here is a big nevertheless resound throughout "An awful lot of people are trying to thing. But we have to respect the quads at midnight tonight, sleep at that time coo." everybody." according to the organization's chief The Campus Scream was begun "czar," who requested to remain two years ago as part of An Tostal's 
'Women in Workplace'
anonymous. week long activities. The following The PATC -composed of the year, South Quad joined in; thus the czar, a vice czar, a pubiicity czar, and Campus Scream served to usher out 


Marriagcr'career skills are necessary
approximately twelve com-Gentle Thursday. m•s•oners have executed a Cries of "boola-boola-boola" and campus-wide campaign to promote "I love you Mary Kay," as suggested By HELEN LUCAITIS make a committment to a career," develop a knowledge of the or­the third annual Campus Scream. by PATC advertising, "express our News Staff said Fritz. "You have to make deci­ganization. "An organization doesn't 
sions as to how you will spend your open doors for you; you must make
Despite its demotion from an offi­animalistic behavior," the czar said. cially recognized An Tostal status, "This is only a scream. We advocate Balancing marriage and work time:" yourself visible and find out what is the Scream is expected to be a no violence, no nudity, no profanity, could become harmful without Fritz began by telling ofthe com­going on." success thanks to the efforts of the no fireworks." proper skills, says a local hospital ex­plications in her own life from On the middle managerial level, P A TC, the czar said. Perez said, "I don't understand ecutive. combining a career and a com­Fritz stressed that one should 
An Tostal Assistant Chairman why they felt they had to go off and Rita Fritz, Associate Vice­muter's marriage. She stated that develop effective communication Mike Perez said the An Tostal Com­do this on their own. Maybe they President of Memorial Hospital, "love does not conquer all" and that skills and that it is important to mittee is "not really happy" with thought that there should be a spoke about the complications of "life gets complicated when you get develop a style and appearance that 
PATC's endeavors, but added scream, but taking the matter in combining marriage and a career for involved with a career." sets oneself apart from the others. the final lecture of the "Women in Fritz explained that working skills "Women need "' stop being cute
"there's nothingwe can do about it." their own hands I don't think was Perez said that the Notre Dame the proper way." the Workplace" series in Stapelton can be illustrated in a hierarchy. She and learn to say thingspositively and 
administration had asked the An "I wish they would have come to 
Lounge at Saint Mary's College. said that the skills can be divided in­constructively." "There are a lot of pulls, bott to three levels -personal, middle Fritz explained that on the topTostal committee not to sponsor the us and asked why we weren't having 
Scream because it was disruptive. it," Perez added. "We could have professional and personal, once you managerial, and top managerial managerial level, developing per­skills. sonal skills is most important be­To attain personal skills, Fritz said cause one must possess the ability to that "the foundation ofone's life is in think ambitiously, well-tuned politi·
'Ironclad commitment' 
developing a healthy life style." cal skills, and the motivation to Second, one should have a personal "work the extra mile." value system, and third, one should In all cases, Fritz emphasized that

Social Security collapse averted 
have a personal support system. women must learn to take risks and Fritz also said that it is important to not be afraid offailure. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -In a these amendments into law, we've O'Neill, Baker and Reagan each 
celebration shared with adversary restored some much needed appointed five members of the com­and ally alike, President Reagan security to an uncertain world." mission that produced the com­signed yesterday a S165 billion So­With leaders from both parties promise on Jan. 15 after a flurry of cial Security rescue plan that and Alan Greenspan, the chairman of last minute negotiations with the "demonstrates for all time our na­the National Commission on Social White House. tion's ironclad commitment" to the Security Reform, clustered around The reforms will generate s165 
retirement program. him, Reagan signed the thick docu­billion in new revenues or savings House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill ment. for Social Security between now and Jr., D-Mass., agreed. "This is a happy The gala event climaxed two the end of 1989, and experts from day for America," he declared. years of pitched political battles on Congress and the Social Security Ad­The president's stroke of a dozen the Social Security's troubles and ministration agree they will also pens sealed the bipartisan com­how to remedy them. wipe out all of the system's long­promise to stave off impending term deficit of S 1.9 trillion. That bankruptcy of the old age trust fund figure represents how much the sys­by raising taxes, freezing benefits for tem would need in its trust funds six months and boosting the retire­right now to stay in the black over ment age by two years in the next ~The changes in this the next 75 years absent any 
century. reforms. 
Leaders of Congress, members of legislation will allow The 36 million beneficiaries will the blue-ribbon commission which have to wait from July until next
Social Security to age 
crafted the package, and hundreds of January for their annual cost-of­other guests applauded the crown­as gracefully as all of living increase, expected to run ing act in a blustery ceremony on around 3.5 percent. That delay will
us hope to do ' 

the South Lawn ofthe White House. cost a typical retiree about S 13 or 
"The changes in this legislation S 14, or roughly S80 over the six will allow Social Security to age as months. gracefully as all of us hope to do our­The payroll tax on employers will 
selves, without becoming an Senate Majority Leader Howard H. rise from 6 . ..., percent to ..., percent overwhelming burden on genera­Baker Jr., said it represented "a suc­next January. The package also in­tions still to come," declared the cessful conclusion of another chap­cludes a tax hike in 1988-89, when president, who wore no topcoat ter in the real greatness of the the rate will be 7. 51 perc~:nt. The against the 41-degree chill. American political S}~~tem -that is, self-employed, who now contribute 
"We have shared an historic mo­the subordination of our own par­9.35 percent to Social Security, will 
ment," he said at the end of the I;. 
ticular political ambition in favor of pay 1I.3 percent in 1984 and 13.02 minute ceremony, "for in signing 
the greater good." percent by 1988. 



15'o Discount 

~ not including . 
sale ttems 

N.D.-S.M.C. Students 


University Park Mall and Concord. & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
___...___ . 


After the fun at Saint Mary's, there's plenty more all night. 
I *Beer Garden at Saint Mary's $1.00 cover & 50¢ beers Listen to J P and the Cats I 8 PM to 1 PM *Irish Pub at Senior Bar The festivities and frolics continue! *Don't forget to Vote for UMOC 
--~---



Ibe_a_~:.~-~e·
-----!LDI:C~¥ .a.~--­
is accepting applications for the position of 

Production Manager. 
Applications arcz ducz 5 PM Friday. April 22. . For more information. call Margaret 239-7 417 
Lee's 8-8-Q ALL YOU CAN DRINK! 
TONIGHT9-1 S4-GUYS S3-GIRLS 

The Observer Thursday, April 21, 1983 -page 4 
Nuclear waste 

Disposal remains crucial problem 
A recent photo ofthe Three Mile Island nuclear plant at Harrisburg, Pa., shows the cylyndrical reactor which was damaged on March 28, 1979. Debate renewed with the nuclear power issue as the Supreme Court ruledyesterday that states can ban the construction ofplants until the govern­ment devises a safe method ofnuclear waste dis­posal. (See story onpage one.) 
WASHINGTON (AP) -There was once talk of shooting it into space or burying it under a polar ice cap. While those notions have been discarded, the problem of what to do with nuclear wastes that will remain lethal for thousands of years is a long way from being solved. 
Since the dawn of the atomic age four decades ago, the waste has been piling up from construction of nuclear warheads and the genera­tion of electricity at civilian power plants. 
Congress, after 25 years ofdebate, passed a bill last December that sets up a schedule for completing the first burial site for civilian wastes by 1998. 
While that gives the government 15 years to find and build the site, past history indicates that all that time and more may be needed. 
continuedfrom page 1 

ofPublic Welfare receives a prelimi­nary report, which is considered before any action is taken. Then, the family is provided with the counsel­ing services which are deemed necessary. 
Usually, the child is not removed from the home, because the primary goal is to keep the family unit intact as counseling services are provided. If, however, the child's safety is threatened by remaining in the home, the agency will petition a court to gain legal custody of the child. Finally, if it is determined that the family cannot be rehabilitated, the best interests of the child are considered, and alternative arrange­ments are made. 
One of these alternative arrange-­ments which has become increasingly utilized is the concept of guardian ad litem. According to attorney Jane Miller (who has per­sonally served as a guardian ad litem 
Join the 

Circle KClub 

on AnTostQI Satu,day.•. Play Quarte,s fo, the ffiuscula, Dyst,ophy Association I Eve-nt: Quarte-r ffille­ofQuaMta 


SMC honors children in local writing contest 
By CINDY BOYLE 
News Staff 

"/ want to be your friend,/ For ever and ever without break or decay./ When it snows in Hawaii,/ When the oceans are dry,/ When the trees are all dead ...The last tree will bold our friendship on his branches." 
This poem, entitled "Oath of Friendship," was one of the many selections written by children that was honored last night at Saint Mary's. The program, "To Flowers, Who Can Say No?" was part of the Creative Writing Festival for South Bend grade school students. 
The Indiana Committee for the Humanities sponsored three profes­sional writers in residence to teach · in three South Bend elementary schools -Kennedy, Perley, and Madison. Julie Jensen, Saint Mary's Assistant Professor in the Com· munications/Theatre Department; Jeanne Rodes, Saint Mary's English 
The problem gained new urgency yesterday when the Supreme Court upheld a California law banning new nuclear power plants until the federal government devises a safe method of disposing of the wastes. At least 12 other states have some type of restriction on plant con­struction. 
Even before the decision, the Reagan administration was pushing ahead on an accelerated schedule to meet the requirements of the waste bill to demonstrate its comm1tment to solving the problem. 
While the law requires the presi­dent to pick three sites for detailed studies by Jan. I, 1985, Department ofEnergy officials say they expect to have the three candidates picked by the end ofthis year. 
Then they will begin detailed "site characrerization" work leading to 
in several instances), a guardian ad litem can be defined as "a person ap­pointed by a court to provide for a child being represented in court." 
In all but five states, the child's at­torney customarily assumes this role. Indiana is an exception to the rule, and its statute states that a juvenile court may appoint a guar­dian ad litem at any time; however, the person who is named as the child's guardian does not have to be an attorney, but the child's attorney may become the guardian ad litem if he so chooses. 
Because the role of a guardian ad litem has not yet been detlned, a na­tional conference on the issue at­tempted to establish uniform guidelines for guardians to follow. Suggested guidelines include inde­pendent and thorough investigation lecturer; and Dolores Frese, Notre Dame Associate Professor ofEnglish, began teaching the students in January. 
Ann Kimble Loux, Writing Clinic Coordinator and Writing Proficiency Director at Saint Mary's, was the director of the creative writing project. Loux said that the idea for teaching area grade school students came directly from the schools. "There was a lot ofcuriosity in the schools. We were asked by one of the teachers to do it," she said. 
Last night's program included the readings ofpoems, short stories, and plays written by students from ages 6 to 12. Teachers, parents, and the three professional writers read the pieces. Several poems were per­formed to music, and several plays were acted out. 
The program ended with a reading ofa poem entitled "Helping Spring Come," which was dedicated to South Bend. 
the selection of one site for the waste dump by the president in March 1987. 
Two of the three sites-in Wash­ington and Nevada -have already been picked. Four states -Texas, Mississippi, Louisiana and Utah ­are in the running for the third site. All four of these sites feature under­ground salt formations. The depart­ment may decide to pick one primary salt formation for study with a back-up in case problems are found. 
The selection of candidate sites has stirred stiffopposition. 
Five hundred people turned out for hearings in Nevada last month to protest selection of the Nevada test site and Gov. Richard Bryan promised to veto a high-level dump in his state. 
• • .Abuse 
of the child's case, cross­examination of witnesses in court, and insuring the regularity of proceedings. 
Questioned about the possibility of a conflict of interest for lawyers who defend children while simul­taneously acting as their guardians, Miller acknowledged the difficulties involved in representing both the in­terests ofthe child and ofthe agency involved in the case. Since the inter­ests of the child and social welfare agencies often differ, Miller em­phasized the importance ofexpress­ing both views in the courtroom. Admittedly, the lawyer/client relationship in such cases is a unique one, for as Miller quipped, "How do you maintain a lawyer/client relationship with a one year old?" 
continuedfrom page 1 

pay "punitive" damages to prevent future wrongdoing. The court up­held a 530,000 jury award against a Missouri prison guard who was sued by an inmate who had been raped. 
Ruled that Los Angeles police may use two types of chokeholds to subdue people who resist arrest. The decision overturned a ruling that barred such police tactics. 
In the nuclear case, Laurence 
.Nukes 
Tribe, the Harvard law professor who represented California, said the decision means states can prevent plants already under construction from beginning operations. 
"The decision's underlying rationale is a total victory for the states," he said. The states' power under the ruling "plainly is inde­pendent ofthe question whether the plan has begun construction or not," he said. 

The Observer Thursday, April 21, 1983 -page 5 
League ofWomen Voters 
Town Ineeting probes nuclear issue 
By PAM RICHARDSON 
StaffReporter 
Members of the South Bend com­
munity gathered for a "town 
meeting" on the nuclear disarma­
ment issue last night at the Center of 
Continuing Education. 
The event was co-sponsored by 
the League ofWomen Voters and the 
Center for Continuing Education. 
Walt Collins, the newly appointed editor of the Notre Dame Magazine and the Assistant to the Chancellor for University Relations at Indiana University, South Bend, acted as the moderator. 
The town meeting was set up to give each panelist a total of tlfteen minutes to express his views on the disarmament issue. The second por­tion of the event consisted of ques­tions and comments from a group of distinguished citizens. The public was invited to share their thoughts and ask questions at the end. 
The panel consisted of Dr. Robert Byrnes, former Director ofthe Inter­national Affairs Center at Indiana University in Bloomington; Dr. John Yoder. Mennonite minister and professor of theology at Notre Dame; and Dr. Edward lfft, U.S. Foreign Reserve Unlimited Officer. Byrnes, whose specialty is Russian and East European history, com­mented that he "wished this type of meeting would be held in the Soviet Union." He advanced his insights on solving the nuclear threat existing in the world today, noting that if our 

Death toll rises in embassy bombing 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)-Search-officials said there were five to 10 ers dug a Marine's body from the -Lebanese applying for visas when rubble ofthe U.S. Embassy yesterday the bomb exploded. and wrapped it in an American flag. Police said the body of Lebanese while grieving Lebanese kept vigil police officer Hassan Yahya, an em­near the shattered building where at bassy employee, was recovered yes­least 49 people were believed killed terday. by a terrorist bomb. Red Cross workers also pulled the 
There still was no precise count of body of Lance Cpl. Robert V. the dead. The explosion Monday McMaugh, 21, of Manassas, Va., from caused extensive destruction and the heaps of concrete and masonry workers were finding body parts and at the foot of the devastated build­corpses so mangled that identifica-ing, and put it into a plastic bag tion was difficult. draped with the Stars and Stripes. 
conventional forces for the past 
twenty years had been ·larger, the 
fear ofa nuclear war would not be as 
great today. 
Labelling the unilateral freeze referendum passed by Saint Mary's students "utter nonsense," Byrnes said he approved ofa bilateral freeze or a multilateral freeze and felt the United States and Russia should "continue serious negotiations." 
Yoder, the second panelist, said 
that people want to know "what is 
going on in the religious community 
in America" with the nuClear dis­
armament question. He said that 
perhaps the religious community 
ought to come up with partisan 
commitments. He suggested the 
Moral Majority as being an example 
ofthis. 
lfft, the final member of the panel, is currently serving as Deputy Department of State Representative on the United States Delegation to Strategic Arm~ Reduction Talks (START) in Geneva, Switzerland. Ifft emphasized the demands ofboth the Soviet Union and the United States have on each other in the nuclear arms talks. He also discussed the SALT talks and the START talks going on today. 
This "town meeting" was the first in a series of annual meetings to be held by the League of Women Voters, according to Peggy Ruchti, the president of the League of Women Voters in South Bend. Ruchti said the association hopes to initiate annual town meetings on 
controversial issues. 


Oodg~ News PhOlo 

Notre Dame sophomore Kevin Williams joins Danyl Koch, a graduate student at the University ofMichigan, as co-winner of« P~ymouth Turismo after solving the music portion ofthe Chrysler Corporation's 1983 "Pentastar Challenge" calendar. Williams and Koch also won a 15,000 scholarship and a 15,000 grant to their schools. 
U.S. Embassy spokesman John Reid told reporters that the embas-sy's latest casualty toll listed 24 people as confirmed dead and 25 others as missing and presumed dead. 
This figure included nine Americans confirmed dead and eight missing, as well as 15 Lebanese embassy employees dead and I 7 missing. Reid said. Other embassy 
Mcmaugh, who had been in Lebanon for six months, manned the 
. embassy's "Post No. I," a bulletproof glass booth near the embassy entrance where visitors registered their names in a log book. 
Searchers are looking for the book, which could help establish a firm count ofvictims in the apparent suicide bombing of the embassy on the seaside in west Beirut. 
St. Mary's unpaid accounts postponed until next year 
By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI 
Saint Mary•'s Editor 
Saint Mary's students with unpaid accounts will not be charged inter­est until the 1984-85 academic vear. The decision was recommend~d to the Saint Mary's Board of Regents by the Committee on Finance and Budget during its spring session meetig April 14-1 5. 
The Board decided to transfer S135,000 of the 1982-83 margin to the Plant Fund for fire and safety im­provements on campus. 
The Regents also approved the granting of degree~ to the can­didates for graduation and accepted the resolutions of appreciation for Clarence Dineen, Sister Eva Mary Hooker, CSC, and Kathleen Rice who are retiring or departing from the faculty and administration. 
The Regents toured the campus and attended classes with students Thursday. Several commmittees met during the day to discuss student life and related topics. 
Retiring Regents Joseph Fahey, Mimi McKelly, Richard Nash, Franklin Schurz, Jr. and Mary Ann Heaton Spitters received citations from the Board Thursday evening. 

In Michigan 




Evacuations, toxic cleanup begin 
SWARTZ CREEK, Mich. (AP) ­Homeowners trooped into a small township hall yesterday to get money for meals and lodgings as they began evacuating their homes so the state can clean up one of the nation's worst toxic dumps. 
Clutching notices issued door-to­door Tuesday evening by state police, the Gaines Township resi­dents collected initial payments and returned home to pack their bags and be gone by Thursday midnight. 
"It will make us feel better that at last they're doing something," said Pat Wooster, who with her husb.md Eugene and two children will move to a nearby motel. 
"We were told we could get out in 24 hours," she said. "We could be out in one hour." 
State officials said 54 families and one business will be evacuated from an area about half a mile around the defunct Berlin & Farro Liquid In­cineration Inc. site. 
It will cost the state up to $150,000. 
A state police lieutenant brought gasps from a packed meeting room when he announced that the father ofthe waste dump's former operator was arrested for allegedly pulling a gun on a trooper Tuesday night as he was served with an evacuation notice. 
Clifton Berlin, 74, was charged with felonious assault and arraigned in District Court in Bu~ton, the Flint state police post said. Berlin was released on a personal recognizance bond. 

of the semester With a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. clothes. all your stuff. and Still have plenty of room for one or two other TO MAKE YOUR people and their th1ngs. so you can share the costs Compare that to a plane ticket Or even a bus RESERVATION 

Rent from the best-ma1nta1ned. most dependable fleet 1n I R 
1 

the world Ryder The best truck money can rent .......... 

-.~~·'·~.. Any oneway or local rental card rate with thisCOUPON! 
Offer good through June 30, 1983 



1ftRY~~if~~g2~~~~
2715N. BE1VDIX DR South Bend 
Movin'out? 
RENTA 




RYDER TRUCK 
If you·re 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way Irent-It-here, leave-i.t-rhere) tnp to another my Compare costs before you make plans for mov1ng at the end 
• 

A relative said the elderly man did not believe there were toxic chemi­cats buried at the site and was against the evacuation. 
His son, Charles Berlin, was a co­operator of the site. 
The company began burning waste in 1972. but its 40 acres of property now .iie muddy and rutted as the state launches the court­ordered cleanup. 
The site -no. 16 on the federal "superfund" priority list for cleanup -is laced with C-56, a toxic pes­ticide component. A lagoon on the property issuspected ofholding bar­rels of cyanide and hydrochloric acid, which could form a deadly gas ifmixed. 
CALL 277-3550 
-,-----·------~---~..~~-·--=---~--,-........-::""--,.__ ...._.....,. 
r The Observer Thursday, April21, 1983-page 6 
[ 
Cabinet members 
MX development seen as essential 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Two ranking Cabinet members put the MX hard-sell in Congress yesterday, saying it is essential to deploy the new missile because "the weaker we are the more bold and obnoxious" becomes the Soviet Union. 
But a trio of Democrats made clear they were not buying the wares of Defense Secretary Caspar 
W. Weinberger and Secretary of State George Shultz. 
"Despite the president's super­salesmanship that is being launched here today, I cannot support the recommendations," said Sen. James Exon, D-Neb. "It simply makes no sense to me." 
Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., said the administration's plan to put 100 missiles in fixed and vulnerable holes "turns logic on its head." 
"It doesn't deter," he said. "It does the opposite." 
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., said that by Weinberger's own tes­timony the so-called window ofvul­nerablity still exists "and basically these weapons systems would be sit­
~ ~ 
ND Clubs &Organizations ~ 
TIME TO RE-REGISTER FOR 83-84. NEW SYSTEM THIS YEAR! 
1. 
Registration-now thru April22. 

2. 
Activity Report-Due by April 22. 


3. Applications tor activity funds tor 83-84-Due by April 22. 
4. 
Footbal Concession Stand tor Fall, 83-Due April 22. 

5. 
Movie Application tor Fall, Spring 83-84-Due April15 


All forms available in the Student Activities Office, LaFortune. FUN OS FOR NEXT YEAR WILL BE AWARDED THIS SPRII~ 
~ 


EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE. 

How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the companv after graduation? Under a special .N'avy program we're doing just that. It's called t~e Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. An~ under 1t. you'll not only get great pay during your junior and semor years. but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other emplover. 
~f you _are a ju!lior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical sciCnces. fmd out more todav. And let your career pav off while still in college. · · 
For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: 
1-800-382-3782 
ting ducks." 

Weinberger and Shultz insisted to the Senate Armed Service Commit­tee that the weapon's military value is that it would enable the United States to match the capability of the Soviet Union to hit and destroy har­dened targets with great accuracy. 
Politically, they said, it would demonstrate the nation's will and determination to defend itself and its allies. 
They also said the signal of strength it would send would en­hance prospects for success in arms control talks with the Soviet Union. 
The present Reagan plan calls for placing the I 00 new missiles in silos now occupied by aging Minuteman missiles, while beginning work on a smaller, single warhead weapon for deployment in the 1990's. 
Weinberger acknowleged that those silos are vulnerable and will remain so until they can be har­dened. 
Exon said 85 percent of the pre­vious MX testimony heard by the committee, including that by mem­bers of the military joint chief.~ of 
staff and by Weinberger himself, 
recommends against 11asiug the MX 
in vulnerable Minuteman silos. 

"You're saying let's go back to square one and put the MX in vul­nerable holes," Exon said. 
Weinberger replied that the delay 
caused by the search for a way to 
deploy the MX permitted the Soviets 
to build and deploy highly accurate 
and powerful SS-18 and SS-19 
strategic missiles. 

He said it is now essential to 
match that capability quickly. 

"The weaker we are the more 
bold and obnoxious become their 
(Soviet) policies," he said. 

Sen. Dan Quayle, R-Ind., asked what might be gained in the way of successful arms control if the num­ber of warheads on each MX were cut from ten to five. 
Secretary Shultz replied: "I suppose we might gain a horse laugh from the Soviet Union." 
Other senators voiced support for the new program, which even critics say has a better chance for congres­sional approval than its predeces­sors. 



Reagan compromises on budget requests 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan, yielding to rebellious Senate Rt:publicans, offered a 1984 budget compromise yesterday that provides more money for domestic programs and slightly less for defense than he originally wanted. The proposal keeps intact Reagan's three-year program oftax cuts. 
Reagan dispatched three top aides to the Senate to explain the proposal. to key Republicans, and Senate GOP leader Howard Baker said he hoped agreement on a tax and spending plan was within reach. 
Several participants in the meeting, speaking on the condition that they not be identified, said the biggest stumbling block to an agree­ment was opposition by con­servatives to any tax increases over the next three years. 
"The hang-up is taxes," said one senator, adding that the moderate Republicans at the session were prepared to "swallow hard" and agree to Reagan's new proposals for spending. 
Presidential aides at the session included Chief of StaffJames Baker, Counsellor Edwin Meese and Budget Director David Stockman. 
Their visit to the Capitol marked the administration's first serious at­tempt to compromise with Senate Republicans who, after rejecting Reagan's original budget, have been 
arguing for  weeks  about  how  to  
revise it.  
These  are  the  elements  of  

Reagan's newly revised proposal, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press: 
Defense spending for 1984 would increase 7.5 percent after inflation, midway between Reagan's original 10 percent proposal and the 5 per­cent the committee voted for. Over five years, military spending would 
be slightly lower than Reagan originally called for. 
Reagan would agree to accept about S13 billion more in domestic spending over three years than he originally proposed, but the Budget Committee would have to cut S35 billion through 1986 from tentative spending plans already made. 
The plan assumes enactment of Reagan's proposal for a one-year pay freeze and partial approval for his program to revise the Civil Service Retirement pro~ram. 
..CJ'Qowe~ ffJ~ aQQ occogio"g" 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway 232-3354 

The Observer Thursday, April21, 1983-page 7 
Southern Indiana 
Conrailtnay resutne freight service 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Conrail and a group of freight shippers are close to an agreement to restore service along a 60-mile stretch of track in southern Indiana, a negotiator for the shippers said yes­terday. 
"We are very close to having a deal," Shelbyville attorney Lee McNeely said in an interview. 
Conrail stopped service on the line between Shelbyville and Lawrenceburg April 4, saying it was no longer profitable to provide service along the route. All freight traffic has been halted along the 60­mik stretch. Service has continued between Indianapolis and Shel­byville and Lawrenceburg and Cin­cinnati. 
McNeely said both sides met last Friday and "Conrail gave the ship­pers a proposal which was changed in a number of areas from what the parties had last talked about, but was something that Conrail indicated they will be willing to sign." 
The oft1cers of the shippers group reviewed the proposal and found it acceptable, he said. They have recommended that it be adopted by all of the shippers and a copy of the proposalwill be delivered Thursday to Gov. Robert D. Orr, McNeely said. 
Under the agreement, McNeely said, Conrail will continue to own the line and will provide rail service to freight shippers on a contract basis "with the hope that it will spur economic development and in­creased utilization ofthe line." 
Conrail has agreed to provide minimum service of two trains each way each week, with the possibility of more trains being added if freight demands require it, he said. 
If the shippers agree to the proposal, it must be reviewed by the Interstate Commerce Commission, McNeely said. 
"We'll be seeking the aid of the proval," he said. 

Freight could begin moving along the line as soon as the ICC approves the agreement, he said. The shippers are also trying to get Conrail to put in writing its commitment to rehabilitate the line from Beech Grove to Shelbyville and from 
Thatcher to Cincinnati, he said. 
"We're doing the abandoned seg­ment, they're doing each end," he said. 
The governor's press secretary, William DuBois, said Orr spoke with Conrail chairman Stanley Crane on yesterday about the shippers' con­cerns regarding rehabilitation of each end of the line. According to Du Bois, Crane told the governor that Conrail would agree to the provision. 
"So it's done. It's a tentative agree­ment," DuBois said. "It's as final as it can be until it's reduced to writing." 
'Functioning normally' 


Soviets launch new space mission 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Soviet government launched a new first in space missions yesterday, sending up three cosmonauts for the first ex­tended stay by so large a crew aboard one of its orbiting space sta­tions. 
Mission commander Vladimir G. Titov, 36, and space veterans Gen­nady M. Strekalov, 43, and Alexan­der A. Serebrov, 39. were sent up in a Soyuz T-8 space transport at 7: I I 
p.m. ( 8:11 a.m. EST) from the Baikonur space center in central Asia 1.:>.00 miles southeast of Mos­cow, the official news agency Tass said. 
·They were "feeling well," and all their equipment was "functioning normally," Tass reported an hour af­ter the launching. 
It said they would dock with the Salyut 7 space station, unoccupied for four months, and make their quarters in the Cosmos 1443 supply ship, which was attached to the sta­tion March 10. 
The docking was expected to take place tonight, about 24·hours after the launch. 


Wales~ encourages personal celebrations 
GDANSK, Poland (AP) -Lech 
Walesa declared yesterday that the 
working class has a right to observe 
May Day any way it wants, despite a 
government warning that 
Solidarity's call for protests on the 
holiday may jeopardize the pope's 
upcoming visit. 
"I am a worker. I will celebrate May Day in a working man's way, but I cannot tell you exactly how," Walesa said at a news conference at his Gdansk apartment. 
"The working class has a right to celebrate its own holiday the way it wants," Walesa said. 
The leader of the outlawed Solidarity labor union also said he hoped to meet with Polish-born Pope John Paul II during his scheduledJune 16-22 visit. 
May I, the international labor ob­servance, is a major holiday in the Soviet bloc. where it traditionally is marked with large, officially or­chestrated and controlled marches of workers. 
Underground leaders of the outlawed Solidarity labor union have called for nationwide protests on May Day. 
On Tuesday, the Communist Party Politburo and the government issued a joint statement warning against protests and saying the un­derground sought to "cast a shadow over preparations for, and put into question, the conditions necessary for a papal visit. 
Walesa also urged the govern­ment to negotiate with union leaders."l still hope for a dialogue and for solving our problems around a (negotiating) table," Walesa said. 
"If not, I will seek more effective means," said Walesa, declining to specify what tactics he might propose. 
Last May Day, the Solidarity un­derground staged peaceful mass rallies in more than a dozen Polish cities in the first major public protest of the December 1981 dec­laration of martial law. Authorities suspended Solidarity in the military crackdown, and interned most ofits 
top  leadership,  including  Walesa  
who was held nearly a year.  
Walesa  reportedly  !1eld  a  clan­ 

destine meeting with Solidarity's _fugitive leaders April 9-11, but has declined to endorse publicly the un­derground's call for protest marches this May 1. In the past week police have interrogated him three times about those underground contacts, and questioned his wife and driver. 
In addition to warning Poles not to take part in Solidarity's May Day demonstrations, Communist author­ities have started rounding up-un­derground activists. 
Thirty-five people were detained in the city of Czestochowa on Sun­day after a raid on clandestine print shops, the newspaper Zycie Warszawy( Warsaw Life) said yes­terday. 
The report came four days after authorities announced the deten­tion of at least 26 members of Solidarity and affiliated organiza­tions, including the coordinator of the union's underground radio net­work,JerzyJastrzebowski. 
The best-known Solidarity figure arrested in the crackdown, former national spokesman Janusz Onyszkiewicz, was charged Tuesday with underground activities linked to the planned May 1 demonstra­tions. 
governor, the senators and the af­fected congressmen to get this ap­
The official media gave no indica­tion of how long the mission would last or whether the trio would try to break the space endurance record of 211 days set Dec. 1 0 by Salyut 7's last occupants, Anatoly Berezovoy and Valentin Lebedev. 
Like that mission, the main crews in all previous extended missions aboard Salyut space stations have consisted of two men. However, they were visited by crews of two and three members for short stays. 
COUPON 

Free Pizza Drawing 
Sun, May 8, 11:30 PM 

With each order 4/21 -5/8 n Write name, phone#, ID# 0 on the back of this cou­
c
, pon and give to driver. 
0,  25 Free 10" Pizzas Cheese & 1 ingredient All NO & SMC Students Offer good with no other coupon. No Checks. Expires 5/10/83.  
COUPO  


-/ t.. 
. ----J I
-J 
..... 


.···..,....,... 

AS504..·iated Pres.~ 

Whilejoanie Caucus delights in her new baby and Zonk Harris zeros in on the perfect tan, Donald Carlton keeps on drawing. Carlton is the freelance artist who for II years finished the drawings in Garry Trudeau's Doonesbury comic strip. Trudeau starteda 20-month sabbatical injanuary. 
Jolish Jrincr ra·tzzrrtn. . 
18061 So. Bend Ave. 


272-8030 

FREE DELIVERY 
toND/SMC 

10 PERCENT OFF ANYTIME WITH NO COUPON, STUDENT I.D. REQUIRED. 
• SANDWICHES •PIEROGI• •CZARNINA •BLINTZES • 
OPEN 7 DAYS AWEEK. 4 00-1:30 A.M. 
COUPON 



14'' 
Cheese Pizza 
$5.40 
Additional Ingredients 75¢ Tax Included 
Offer good with no other coupon. No Checks. Expires 5/9/83. 
UPON 




Gentle Thursday 
• 


]ail 4:30-7:00
• 

Picnic 4:30-6:30
• 

Canoe Races 4:00
• 
Bike Race 5:00
• 

• Picnic Gamen 5:1 5-7:00 Record Breaking Event 5:30
• 

(Largest Game of Leap Frog) Mr. Campus at 7:30 in Angela
• 

Beer Garden 8:00-1:00
• 


An T~st~l 
~,......~....•••• uceuuCAcwsazcr 
f 
t 
~ • • .Reston 
The Observer Thursday, April21, 1983-page 8 

Victor Tokman, director of the International Labor an /CO meeting last night at the Notre Dame Law Organization, discusses the options to be taken during School. Approximately 40 people allended. 
continuedfrom page 1 
(Nixon) has the right to (bar the press)," said Reston, "But, that's why he's in private life." 
Smith, currently editor of the Times "Washington Talk" page, was skeptical of Nixon's reasoning. "His 'shyness' seems to be something new," he said. 

Reagan's decision on running for a second term was another topic of the conference. Smith and Reston, on that matter, preferred to hedge their bets. 
"I think that Reagan is in much the same position as (Dwight) Eisen­hower. was before the 19 t 56 elec­tion," said Reston. "Ifhe doesn't run, he'll be told, there's Jesse Helms on the right-and George Bush and Howard Baker in the center, and there will be a titanic battle for the soul of the party -and that would open the door for the Democrats. 
"But if you would have asked me three or four months ago, I would 


:IIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ 
an open m€€tlnG ~oR all thos€ IOt€R€St€b 10 h€lp1nq With 
j:R€shman 0Rt€ntatton 

Sunbay, apRil 24 7:30 lew1s PaRty Room au aR€ W€lcome!! 

................................................................................................ 
have said that he wouldn't run 
again." 

Smith added some insight, saying, "Three White House reporters were discussing the fact that they had each independently reached the conclusion that Reagan would not (run for a second term), when Jim Baker (Reagan's chief of staff) of­fered to bet each ofthem S50 that he would. 
"But then again, Baker's a rather wealthy man." 
The political discussion ranged in· to the evening's topic, ofthe effect of sports journalism on the journalistic profession. 
Reston made the point that the 
use of sports terminology in the 
political realm is a negative force in 
journalism. 

"The reports of 'Who's No. 1' in 
the arms race or 'Who's the Front­
Runner' in political races trivializes 
the complex," he said. 

"It (sports terminology) sets up 
false expectations. Sports are played 
as if on a stage. The purpose is to 
win, tear down the goalposts, and go 
home. In the world of conflict be­
tween nations, however, sometimes, 
we dare not win. 

"Using statistical terms to inter­pret the positions of candidates, through things like popularity polls, is fine for a Notre Dame football game, but a bit simplistic for a presidential election." 
Reston has served the Times for 41 years as its Washington Bureau chief, its associate editor, and then its executive editor. He was vice president of the New York Times Company for five years. In 1980 he received an honorary doctor of law degree from Notre Dame and will receive another honorary degree from his home in Glasgow, Scotland, thisJune. 
WANT TO FLY? 

l f your goal is to become a professional, you owe it to yourself not to overlook any opportunities that will help you reach that goal. THE NAVY PILOT (20/20 vision is required) is the finest in the world, flying a variety of soph­isticated high performance aircraft. THE NAVAL FLIGHT OFFICER (vision correctible to 20/20) is the quarter­back of the Naval Aviation Team with wide-ranging expertise from state-of-the-art Data Processing to Master Tacti­cian. If you are a college graduate, or are within three years of graduation, wanting to get your feet off the ground and earn over $27,000 a year within four years and attend the world's most prestigious flight school, contact or mail your resume to: 
575 N. Pennsylvania St. Office 646, Indianapolis, IN 46204
NAVAL AVIATION 1-800-382-3782 





Editorials 
Thursday, April21, 1983-page 9 
Hypocrisy in Central America 
President Reagan has finally admitted publicly what has been common knowledge for some time -that the United States is directing and financing armed groups of Nicaraguan exiles based in Honduras who are 
T.J. Conley 
Eye on the Americas 

trying to overthrow the leftist Sandinista government ofNicaragua. The president was quick to add, however, that his administration is complying with the Boland amendment, which forbids the support ofany group trying to topple the Nicaraguan government. Yet any number of reliable witnesses, including mem­bers of Congress, have charged the ad­ministration with breaking the law, while the man generally acknowledged as overseeing covert activities in the region, Honduran Am­bassador John Negroponte, told two visiting congressmen recently that the Boland amend­ment is a "legal triviality." 
The Reagan Administration is able to admit their involvement with rightest guerrillas while maintaining that they are obeying the law by cleverly claiming to be using the guer­rillas only to check the flow of illegal arms from Nicaragua to rebels in El Salvador, while denying any intention of overthrowing the Sandinistas. Depending on your point ofview, this explanation is either incredibly naive or cynical. It is an insult to the intelligence ofthe American people to expect them to believe that this support for forces whose clearly stated reason for existence is to overthrow the Nicaraguan government would ever be used for such limited purposes. 
The missing piece in the argument is solid evidence of Nicaraguan arms shipments to El Salvador. After more than three years of sur­veillance with sophisticated equipment, including specially equipped ships and the much heralded A WACs radar planes, the Reagan Administration has been unable to produce one single shred of credible evidence to justify the enormity oftheir inter­vention in the region. Their one serious at­tempt to document Nicaraguan subversion, the infamous "white paper," was quickly shot full of holes by critics and later disowned by the State Department. 
The fact of the matter is, ofcourse, that the only country exporting terror in Central Am­merica is our own. The infusion of more than S 19 million in weapons and equipment to aid a small group who seek to regain the privileges they lost when the Somoza dictator­ship was overthrown in 1979 is a prime ex· ample. Until the Reagan Administration realizes that the cause ofrevolution in Central America is not Soviet-Cuban-Nicaraguan trouble-making but the legacy ofcenturies of poverty and oppression, they will continue to aggravate the situation by militarizing an ex­tremely unstable region. The sheer hypocrisy of their position is shown by comparing the 
brutality of "democratic" governments in El Salvador and Honduras with "tolitarian" government of Nicaragua, in which not one person has been executed and sincere efforts to improve the lives of all citizens are under­way. 
Recently, Anthony Lewis wrote in The New York Times: "The most fateful foreign policy choice since Vietnam now con­fronts this country. Unlike Vietnam, the American public is on notice of what is happening before it is too late. Will our politi­cal system work this time to avoid disaster?" For our sake, as well as for the people of Central America, let us hope so. 
P. 0. BoxQ  
U.S..technologygiveaway Dear Editor: Max Lerner's editorial entitled, "Soviet diplomats have to steal" (April 13), caught my eye. Mr. Lerner made three primary points: ( l ) the Soviets do not possess the high technology they desire, ( 2) this tech­nology "can't be bought, borrowed, or begged," so that, ( 3) the Soviets must steal the technology instead. I agree with Mr. Lerner that the Soviet's techno\ogy is limited. He could quite truth­fully have been much stronger. In fact, after a massive study of the origin of technology used in the Soviet Union, Antony Sutton con­cluded that there is no such thing as Soviet technology. Further, Soviet innovation is al­most non-existent. Therefore, the Soviets must go outside their country to acquire the technology they desire. Further, the role of theft and espionage in the Soviet's acquisition of foreign technol­ogy is undeniable. But it is incorrect to imply that the Soviets can acquire the technology only by spying. It is incorrect to say that high technology "can't be bought, borrowed, or begged." The Soviet bloc is continually acquiring high technology from the Western world: primarily the United States, the other NATO countries, and Japan. This transfer occurs, not just by theft however, but even with the consent and supervision ofthe governments ofthose countries. To try to even summarize the technology transfer would take pages. Sutton, in this three-volume work Western Technology and Soviet Economic Develop­ment and in National Suicide: Military Aid to the Soviet Union, has spent over 1400 pages on the topic. But let's g1~t just a little taste. In the 1930s the United States provided the Soviet Union with the Stalingrad (now Volograd) Tractor Plant. It was built in the United States, dismantled, shipped, and re­built in Stalingrad. In its day, it was the lar­gest such plant in Europe. We provided a duplicate at Kharkov and ;; second duplicate at Chelyabinsk. For years, these plants were the mainstay ofSoviet tank production. The United States also provided ltwo massive "automobile" and truck plants, Gorki and ZIL. In modern times, these plants have been re-equipped with modern machinery. Much of that occurred m the Vietnam War at the very same time that trucks and PT-76  tanks that were manufactured in these plants Commerce, and even occasionally Defense. were being used to kill American troops in The first freeze we should implement is a Vietnam. Now, the United States has built freeze of the high technology flowing from the Soviet Union the world's largest truck the West to the Communist bloc. Then we plant, the Kama River plant. Like the other can take steps to counter the capability that plants, it also has military capabiliiy, anu as they already have. the world's largest truck plant, that capacity Brent E. Marshall is very large. That is only one industry. Then there is the strange case of a Soviet national who tried to buy a state-of-the-art accelerometer, a precise instrument used in L'il Sibs the guidance systems of aircraft, missiles, Dear Editor: and spacecraft, as well as numerous ground This past weekend over I ,200 brothersweapon systems. The FBI thwarted the sale and sisters of Notre Dame students came toonly to have the State Department, only a visit the campus for Lil Sibs' Weeke~d. Thefew months later, allow a Soviet scientist to program had been highly successful atcome to the United States to study the cur­Miami of Ohio for a number of years, andrent technology of accelerometer proved to be an equally enjoyable ex­manufacture. So instead ofhaving one copy, perience for all involved this weekend. Thethe Soviets obtained the knowledge to build success of all events can be credited to theall they want. Lil Sibs' committee, but specifically to theOverall, we have the dubious distinction chairperson of the entire program, Sueof having transferred the technology neces­Fleck. It is through her hard work and sary to propel ICBMs, guide those same dedication that this past weekend became aICBMs to the American targets, and even to reality, and a public thank-you is in order.design the nuclear warheads that would Very early in the school year, Sue ap­cause such destruction and death. That's proached the HPC and Student Senate forright; we gave it, not all at once, but in bits their input, and with their blessing began theand pieces. Now we are reaping the task of organizing the event. While reassur­"benefits" ofthis trade, supposedly intended ing many apprehensive rectors and ad­to promote peace, friendsip, and brother­ministration officials that there was littlehood. cause for concern and worry, she began toIn recent years this transfer has con' plan for approximately 300 kids to visit. Intinued. In my work for the U.S. Navy, I have the next few months however the numbersbeen involved in the evaluation of export grew, and eventually quadrupled herlicense applications. Such a license is neces­original estimate, as brothers and sisters sary to transfer strategic technology to any foreign country. I have observed applica­tions for the transfer ofstrategic technology to Communist-bloc countries move favorab­ly through various government agencies and offices. Everything from rocket technology to jet turbine technology, from integrated circuit technology to full computer technol­ogy comes through. I have even seen an ap­plication, favorably reviewed by certain government agencies, to give a Communist country the training, knowledge, machinery -everything necessary to build its own state-of-the-art, high-technology item. In the United States this· item is used almost ex­clusively for military purposes, and the new technology would greatly improve its military capability. Sure, the Soviets steal technology. They steal a lot and the threat is serious. Yet it is not nearly as serious as the technology trans­fer occurring with the favorable recom­mendations ofthe U.s.. Depa:tments ofState,  from New York, Washington, and even California decided to come out for a few days. Although there were a few difficulties with organizing buses and trying to keep all of the parents informed, everything else came off without a hitch and many of you got to show your "little siblings" your home away from home. So again, I would like to publicly thank Sue and all the members of the organizing committee for their hours of time and effort. The program has proven to be a very worthwhile one, and hopefully will become another deep-rooted tradition in years to come. Brian Callaghan Student Body President Men of mud Dear Editor: In reference to your article, "Bernardin: Medieval man in a modern age," I have but a single question. The authQT writes: "In Ber­nardi n there lies that medieval spark of religio-political synthesis: men of mud, in­spired by their faith in God and in each other seek to perfect this imperfect planet." Forgive my ignorance, but whence derives the curious if not bewildering expression, "men of mud"? jamesM. Wall Editor's note: "Men of mud" refers to a humani~y trapped in earthlinesss.  

·­


Ihe~er============ 
Box Q, Notre Dame, J.'V 4655(, 
The Obsen1er is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni-j versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflec~t the policies of the administration of eit'ler institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinionson_campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239-5303 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief............................David Dziedzic Saint Mary's Edttor ...............Anne Monastyrski Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi Executive Editor..............................Paul McGinn Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton News Editor.............................. Bob Vonderheide Photo Editor ........................................ Scott Bower News Editor.................................Mark Worscheh 
Department Managers 
Business Manager ........... ..-........Daniel O'Hare Circulation Manager ...................... Mark Miotto Controller ............................................Alex Szilvas Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley Advertising Manager ....................... Chris Owen Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer Thursday, April 21, 1983 -page 10 
Hew Wave Opening fict: The Kinetics 


Friday fipril22. 1983 9 PM till... 
Stepan Center fill You Can Eat & Drink· Soda & Munchies!! 


~a.----•T•I•C-KE•T•S•O•"•S•A•L•E•fi•T•TH•E--DO--O•R•!!--$•3•·oo--------~ 
/ 


Sports Brie/§ 
1\,· The 1)/Jser/'('1' and /be Associated Press 
Tom Fallon's men's tennis teamcontinued 
its winning ways last night, as it edged Kalamazoo, 5-4. Senior Mark McMahon paced the Irish with a pair ofvictories. Notre Dame will be gunning for win number 21 today as the Wisconsin Badgers come to town for a 3 p.m. match. Details on both matches will appear in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's softball team split a 
doubleheader with Manchester College yesterday. Manchester won the first game, 13-4, while the Belles took the nightcap, 4-1. In the nightcap, Annie Day pitched the Belles to victory, walking three and striking out two. Julie Keigher was the pitcher of record in the first game. The next game for Saint Mary's will be on Sunday when Butler University visits for a 2 p.m. game.-The Observer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team travels to 
Ohio today to take on Midwest Lacrosse Association opponent, Wooster College. It will be the first game ofa two-game road trip. A game against Denison on Saturday is the other one. The Irish, coming off a 18-1 rout ofanother MLA team, Wittenberg College, now stand at 4-2 in the conference and can ill afford to lose another game ifthey hope to win the MLA crown. -The Observer 
Jean Kerich's Saint Mary's track team travels to Marion, College today for a meet. Cyndy Short, Lisa Johnson, and Annette Isom will all be trying to improve on their school records that they set over the weekend. -The Observer 
The HolyCrossvs. Dillonsoftban championship 
game will be played tomorrow on Holy Cross field at 4:30. -The Observer 
Thursday, April 21, 1983 -page 11 
Football Ticket Applications wm be dis­
tributed to all returning Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students during the week ofApril 18-23 by the Athletic Ticket Office. For the frrst time, each student has an option ofchoosing between a 5-game season ticket package or a 4-game package which excludes the Oc­tober 29 Navy game, which falls at the end ofthe 1983-84 fall break. The price ofthe first package will be S37.50 while the latter will be $30.00. The deadline for returning the application is june 20, 1983. 
-The Observer 
Farley's Finest Flag Football Team will 
face an all-star team from Saint Mary's on Saturday at 3:30 p.m. on Stepan field. The game features the Notre Dame intramural cham­pions from 1982, a 7-2 squad that defeated P.E. for the title last fall. ­
The Observer 

The Dancin' Irishwill hold an organizational meeting for all those interested in trying out for next year's squad tonight at 
6:30 in the Little Theater of La Fortune. -The Observer 
The NVA Golf Tournament is scheduled for 
9:30am. on Sunday, April 24. Foursomes should call6100 to find out their tee-offtimes. Also, the NVA office announced that the grad school softball captains must turn in their team records. -The Ob­server 
The Men's Softball Team will hold a mandatory meeting to announce rescheduling dates for postponed games today at 4:00p.m. in the NVA office. All teams who have forfeited or have not turned in insurance forms have been disqualified from competi­tion. -The Observer 
NHL PLAYOFFS Division Finals 
PATRICK DIVISION N.Y.Iatanclera va. N.Y. Rangara Islanders lead series, 3-2 
Islanders 4, Rangers 1 
Islanders 5. Rangers 0 
Rangers 7, Islanders 6 
Rangers 3, Islanders 1 
Islanders 7, Rangers 2 
Tomorrow at Rangers, 8:05 
Sunday at Islanders, 7:05 
ADAMS DIVISION Buflalo va. Boston Boston leads series, 3-2 
Buffalo 7, Boston 4 
Boston 5, Buffalo 3 
Buffalo 4. Boston 3 
Boston 6, Buffalo 2 
Boston 9. Buffalo 0 
Tomorrow at Buffalo, 7:35 
Sunday at Boston, 7:05 
NORRIS DIVISION Minnesota va. Chicago Chtcago wins series, 4-1 
Ch1cago 5, Minnesota 2 Ch1cago 7, Minnesota 4 Minnesota 5, ChiCago 1 ChiCago 4, M1nnesota 3 (OT) Ch1cago 5, Mmnesota 2 
SMYTHE DIVISION Edmonton vs. Calgary Edmonton w1ns senes, 4-1 
Edmonton 6, Calgary 3 
Edmonton 5. Calgary 1 
Edmonton 10, Calgary 2 
Calgary 6. Edmonton 5 
Edmonton 9, Calgary 1 

The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified. advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint Mary's office in the Regina Hall basement is open from noon to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday.



Classifieds 
LOST/STOLEN FROM SOUTH I NEED A RIDE II! FINALS OVER EARLY IF YOU'RE INTO SPEED or enjoy ex­uear SWEETHEART. IN MY BODY. ITS WELL KNOWN. DINING HALL. GRAY NEW BALANCE AND GOING ACROSS tiTS. 80 DR 84 ercise 1n the spnng a~r. s1gn up lor the AN Thanks for putt1ng up w1th me and my THERE IS JUST ONE SELFISH BONE!!! 
NOTICES 

BOOKBAG PLEASE RETURN TO THE NORTHERN N.J.,N.Y.C. TOSTAL CHARITY 5K RUN th1s week mess, I know that sometimes I can be a NOTEBOOKS. THEY ARE VERY IM­METRO, OR CONNECTICUT AREAS? dunng d1nner 1n the dmmg halls. Th1s 3.1-real pest. Many ttmes I am not senous and Cai.Anne,Hart Thanks lor the PORTANT CALL 3132 · NO QUES­DESPERATELY WANT RIDE LEAVING mlle race w1ll be held th1s Saturday. There often Jest. But thts ttme I am very stntere flowers.tuck·ln(you losers) and datstes TIONS ASKED YOU CAN EVEN KEEP LATE SAT 517 OR EARLY SUN 5/8 IS a $3.00 reg1strat10n lee w1th all 1n saylfl!J that You are absolutely THE LOVE.Hamster (YOUR REAL SECRETTYPING AVAILABLE. 287·4082. 
THE BOOKS CALL PETE AT 6805 proceeds go1ng to S1ster Manta·s School VERY BEST ADMIRER) Medals lor 1st-61th men & women, ALLTYPING, Jack1e Boggs. 684-8793 The name of the guy from F1sher who got FEMALE NEEDS ROOMMATE FOR FINISHERS ELIGIBLE FOR PRIZES 1982 ND GRAD seeks hnanc1al aSSIS­
gas lor me two Fndays ago. I owe you SUMMER SUBLET IN CHICAGO. LIN­donated by Athletes Foot To Art, the Serenadmg Tucker. 
EXPEIENCED TYPIST WILL DO tance lor Dental School (loans or any
some bucks. Call John 3625 COLN PRK APT GREAT VIEW OF LAKE You opened my heart and your muSIC
TYPING VERY REASONABLE RATES other a1d) excellent tax break
CALL4418 TOGA was the key. Thanks for the song. You veCALL 287-5162 1&12) 595-0215
FOUND; ONE BASKETBALL AT 
TOGA _got a great vo1ce You tuck wonderfully. I 
59 Ham11ton St

BOOKSTORE COURTS CALL MARK at TOGA had the greatest dream Let's get together 
EARN $500 OR MORE EACH SCHOOL Bensenville. 11160101TOGA somettme. fd love to hear some more of TOGA your songs YEAR. FLEXIBLE HOURS MONTHLY 8332 to 1dent1fy and cia 1m. . .. . 
I 

PAYMENT FOR PLACING POSTERS To M1ke. Dale. J1m. Bobby. Joe. hghtcrew 
FOR SALE 
TOGA Love.
ON CAMPUS. BONUS BASED ON & cast
TOGA Mary
RESULTS. PRIZES AWARDED AS Thanks lor your unfa1hng round-the-clock
I U~S-E_D__---0--UT_·_O_F_-P_R_I_NT----B-O_O_K~S 
TOGA P S Thank M1ke. the Sandman. lor me
WELL 800-526-0883 support 1n thtS La Mancha expenence. 
FOR RENT 

TOGA 
Lei's go for~!! 

Part t1me or Summer-Energy department L-------------' BOUGHT, SOLD. SEARCHED. TOGA Jav1
DEAR MATTHEW now that you are 19 I ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E. WAYNE. TOGATOGATOGASales. Energy Auditing, L.S. Ayers 291· expect all of your ch1ld1sh wh1ms to be ex­
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY· TOGATOGATOGATOGA
7700 Ext 2028 
4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo. all CAVANAUGH plated. Now w1th the emergence Of your
JEFFERSON INTERSECTION 
SENIORS... MULDOON'S!! Check out

utiht1es 1ncluded June or Sept. Call 319· FRIDAY NIGHT maturatton 1t tS necessary that you
Board1ng horses. 1 mi. from N.D. Covered Rush Street more t1me before you
become a responsible. sophtsltcated one
322-8735 Patty House lor sale: Un1vers1ty He1ghts. 3 9:30 
arena. 277·5828 (nng 12x) graduate! $12 covers transportation, beer 
adult BUT.atas you would be so
bedrooms. $12.000 total. tmmed1ate APPROPRIATE DRESS MANDATORY 
both ways to Ch1cago. Bus leaves Wed.

6 bedroom house 4re.nt completly bonng.Ators.restez Ia meme parceque
Terms. 319-3228735, Pat
UMOC IS BACK !!!! even1ng, Apnl 27 Call Paula x3631 for
furn~sed at 806 n stto1us also secu1ty LEAVING SOUTH BEND TO SEE ALL vous etes un homme tnteressant que 
reservations Asentor month event. .. don·t·

alarm system connected to pollee· for fur­75 Austin Manna (Br~tlsh Leytand).4 cyl .4 AMERICA NEED ADVENTUROUS J'a1me. FROM UNE PERSONNE QUI
ATTN: LOGAN CENTER VOLUN­miSS It!
ther mlormat1on calif 362-7160 excellent TRAVELER TO SHARE EXPENSES3-5 AIME VOUS RASER 
door. 4 speed,cleean,52000 m1.,good condttton pnce negottable. MONTHS,LIVE CHEAP:MY CON­TEERS: Rec thiS week on SUNDAY In­
mpg, $ 1400 ,239-6298(day),234­3462(eve.) VERTED VAN. DEPARTING MAY CALL stead of Sat To be held atHOLY CROSS TOGA 
HALL near the lake from 1 :00 to 3:30 PM. Today IS Mana Groners 19th' Watch out
Summer School? Apts for Rent near N.D. FOR INFO. 288-4255. ASK FOR BRIAN. TOGA 
Remember REC ON SUNDAY FOR for a zarfmg wtld woman dancmg on
Ut1ht1es Pd. Less Gas ph.2720261 FOR SALE BY OWNER Near Notre STTRAIGHTS ONLY PLEASE TOGA 
LOGAN CENTER!!!!! Please attend!!! tabtesll love, Prepa, Scali. Sraab, Aloth.
TOGA Boston Babe Dame. 2-bedroom brtck house. fenced 
Faculty or Grad Students 4 Bedroom yard. Many extras. $37,000. Days: 232-Foo-Foo-Town: Come on out and play. Get a real TOGA party Cavanaugh
TYPING · Proless1onat and expenenced 
House. fully lurn1shed With washer/dryer 2031, ask lor Sylv1a Other t1mes: 288-Duck Cavanaugh throw a party? Ha' Hey G I R 
in all phases of typing. Call Sue 277-3878. The rav1sh1ng redhead '" 223 Reg1na I
Nlce'$400/month. 288-3109. L S 1ts not an orgy, 1ts a DILLON TOGA
6134or239-7771. 
would absolutely lov to d1ne w1th you very 

PARTY (but we are open to suggest1ons) 5-BEDROOM STUDENT RENTAL. $400 
Be a\ the DILLON PUB SATURDAY from MARK FISCHER FOR UMOC! 
day. love. C E 

233-6779 Do you want to see Nancy, Dondi, and 9-2 Henry on the Today page of The Ob­more Things you wilt never hear :
TICKETS. 
Mike Heineman IS the Ugly Man Onserver every s1ngte day next year? Does Bag the Islanders, I have to Study I"
TO GRAD STUDENT FOR FALL ,FUR­Campus. One look (If you can stand 1!)
that thought scare you? That's exactly 
Brian

NISHED. SPACIOUS 3-BEDROOM w1ll conv1ce you. Btah! tck! He·s UGLY
what w1ll happen '' we don·t get a lew W1ll somebody please change the back­
HOME. SW. SIDE OF SO BEND. ON Vote M1ke He1neman lor UMOC. He'll feel 
HELP! Last member of good CatholiC more campus comtc stnps for the famed
LOST: One Pa1r of Bronze/Brown metal BUS UN $400/MO.. ALL UTILITIES IN­ground for my fiShtank'.. lam1ly (i e large) needs SEVEN gradua­Observer Com1c Stnp Contest Submit 
be«er about h1msell. 

framed GLASSES Lost 1n the VICinity of CL. SMALL DEPOSIT. 287-3073. Marty STANFORD lobby a«er the Mr Stanford ·t respect women
tion tickets. Will pay $$$. Call M1ke at examples to The .. No! Anyth1ng but 1159 a«er 11 pm. Dond1!" Cartoon Contest. The Observer.
Contest on Friday Apnl 8. They have a TO SUBLET 1 BEDROOM APART­LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS MarkS. 
P.O. Box 0 Questions about the contest? 
high sentimental value be•ng that Without MENT. GREAT LOCATION ON II you want to send a spec1al Thanks lor , Here·s your $80. Bob· 
PLEASE HELPIII NEED GRADUATION Call Margaret. 239-5303. 
them I cannot see!! If found please call or RIVES!DE DR COMPLETL Y FUR­com1ng to vtsit me·· to your hi Sib, or even tf Pat 
TTICKETSIII Call Shern at 2965. W1ll pay
return them to J1m at 8708-07, 329-30 NISHED. FOR SUMMER MONTHS. your hi Sib d1dn't come to VISit and you ·tts rust a number, noth1ng more" 
$. INTERESTED IN WORKING WITH THE
Stanford. (REWARD) CALL SEAN 289-9309 would l1ke to send a trnte memento to h1m, Giuseppe
FLOC STRIKE IN AUGUST NEAR ·Two pants, su1t..
t-sh1rts w111 be on sale lor a reduced pnce 
HELP!!!!Need Graduation T1ckets W1ll TOLEDO? Expenses pa1d. Call Peter or
FOUND ON SOUTH QUAD; Cas10 five­of $4.00 at the STUDENT ACTIVITIES Uoyd functiOn watch. Has 1n111als on the back. Gee. lellas. tets hlt1he ·brar· 
pay$$$$$$ Call M1ke 1764 Kev1n 283·3125 
OFFICE. 1st floor LaFortune Blue. w1th Sliver watchband Call Marty at LIL SIBS LIL SIBS UL SIBS LIL SIBS Jim D. 1022 Take down that background II' 
Joan Rivers says that Tom Marshalek
WANTED 

Is so ugly 
BoMsh
SCREAM! SCREAM! SCREAM! 

that doctors had to Scotch-guard his
LOST MANS WATCH AT MUD VOL­Gee. lellas, lets hit the bars
The unoffiCial, but most popular An Tostalface
PERSONALS
LEYBALL COURTS GIVEN TO Maximus
L

Wanted to sublet two bedroom event IS back. Campus Scream ts tontght.
because his dates threw up on H so of­
We won w1th Red ROM. ten. 
SCOREKEEPER PLEASE CALL 8317 house/apt from June 1 to Aug 31 Call -----------.J M1dn1ght Assemble on the North Quad 
Coach Paul 

232 232-1603 or 233-9872 Call a«er And scream Ill you drop. 
COME PLAY QUARTERS AT ANTOS­People, this guy is ugly; he's had a are of
M1ss1ng bookbag, please return law 500.p.m Panetals a feasible means 
TAL .. MORE INFO COMING!!! hard fife. Why don't you put a little
books and notes to law school. no Ques­mcome· 
happinesss irt his decrepft fife. 
t•ons asked or$ reward ask for M1ke A Need RIDERS to DAYTON lor graduation GUESS WHAT? YOU CAN BUY 3 LIL Rob IF YOU HAVE $160 AND A WAY TO VOTE TOM MARSHALEK-UMOC 1983 
SIBS T-SHIRTS FOR $10.00, IF YOU Gee, lellas. let's go to class" LOST-PAIROFLADY'SBROWN LEAT­BUY THEM SEPARATELY. THEY COST Doug 
(Apr. 22-24). Juhe-3725 NEW YORK. YOU CAN BE IN EUROPE BY THE DAY AFTER TOMORROW TOM MARSHALEK-UGLIEST CAT ON
HER GLOVES W/TAN FUR LINING MARK FISCHER FOR UMOC! $4 OOEACHII LOST ON FRIDAY BETWEEN BADIN 
FOR DETAILS, CALL AIRHITCH. TOLL­CAMPUS FREE. (800) 372-1234 
HALL & ENGINEERING AUD OR IN Anyonecom1ng back on June 18th or 19th JJB CONN. CLUB HAPPY HOUR'! FREE ENGINEERING AUD CALL DARLENE from the Wash1ngton D.C area? Want to PAULA BOURJAILY, MEET ME IN U RAQT JMG. BEER!!! Everyone from Conn. welcome,
UMOC UMOC UMOC UMOC 
6980 wok out a nde? Call Kathleen at 2946 FRONT OF LA FOTUNE AT 2.45 YOUR Fnday, Apnl 22 1n Lyons basement. 4­SECRET LOVER QUESTION WHAT IS THE ONLY 7pm. Sponsored by the ND Atumn1 Club LOST Gold bracelet w1th charm around Going to Chicago this weekend? I need LOST. blue physiology notebook 4/18 of ConnectiCUt (CT ID requested.) 
THING FUNNIER THAN A BOMB Flanner or Grace. Fnday. Apr B If found a nde Fnday mornmg. II you re headed nght-te« S1de of South Contains registra­Therese. are you still all t1ed up thiS THREAT ? ANSWER A PUBLIC please call4340 (SMC). Reward my way. call Tom at 8737 tion matenat. REWARD 3072 weekend? BOWEL MOVEMENT MECHANICS wilt be VECTORiousllf 

The Observer Thursday, April21, 1983 page 12 
• • .Eight 


continuedfrom page 16 
points of Greg Russell and Bob Mic­haels was not enough for Brick Throwers. 
The fine defensive job that Brick Throwers did on US gunnt-r Chris Schneider, holding him to just two shots and no baskets, also was wasted in a losing effort. 
There were some other tough games, and, while they were not quite as exciting as the Brick Throwers-US contest, they kept the crowds happy. 
John Stein, a returnee from la~t year's team, keyed the second­seeded Evenless Jacksonlcs~ Five io 21-17 win over Cash Amberg and the Country Boys and and lnl it to a place in the Elite Eight. 
Ed Hjerpe grabbed I 0 rebounds and Assistant Basketball Coach Jim Baron pulled down seven to help Evenless to a large advantage on the boards. 
Rich Pascuzzo led Cash Amberg with six points. 
Sixth-seeded Macri's Preferred 
Stock nipped Mercury Morris Chose 
Coke Over Pepsi, 21-1 H, in a game of 
many free throws. 
Law student Don Strumillo was near perfect for Macri's, connecting on nine of I 0 shots. Joe Sweeney also added six for the winners. 
Tim Andree continued to be the driving force of his team, third­seeded Bad to the Bone, a~ it rolled over B.O. and the Bouncing Balls, 21-12, yesterday. 
Andree teamed with Scott Zettek to grab 21 rebounds, seven more than the entire B.O. team, and that was probably the difference in the game. 
Fourth seed John Shoe and the Sneakers beat \111.-EBB's Encore by a wide 21-9 margin. The game"s big story was not the 21-of-42 shooting of John Shoe but rather the miserable 9-51 shooting of WEBB's. 
The key to the John Shoe win was its ability to hold WEBB's big gun, Bob Keenehan, to 3-of-I 7 shooting. It also didn't help the WEBtl's cause that Mark Mazanec and Mike Stepanek could only make three of 23 shots between them. 
Bigger. Bener. Smoother . . had not one, not two, but three strikes · against it before its game with fifth­seeded Tequila White Lightning 
Good friends will be there 
come hell orhighwater. 
even started. 
Mike Shiner hurt himself in foot­ball practice yesterday and could not play. Peter Boyle broke his wrist in fifth round action and could not play. And Tim Thiry took I I stitches in fifth-round action and could not play. 
This left Bigger, Better searching the crowd tor players just minutes before their game was to begin. Enough were found to enable Big­ger, Better to play wii:h five players, but obviously, this was not the same Bigger, Better team who had made it this far in the rournament. 
Tequila \1il-'hite Lightning, for this reason, had an easy time of it, win­ning 21-1 I. Tequila hat! balanced scoring as Brian Enright, Lou Nanni, and Mike Conlin each contributed t1ve points. 
In the day's only real surprise, and a minor one at that, ninth seed 
S.W.C. topped eighth seed NEBO's IV by a 21-I 7 count. Pat Kramer scored six points and pulled down eight rebounds to spur S.W.C. 
BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -The tournament takes the day off today before continuing Friday with the Elite Eight in action .... Yesterday was the nicest weather that Bookstore XII has seen since its t1rst day ofcompetition. "It was a beauti­ful day for Bookstore," commented Commissioner Dziedzic after­ward .... See the special Bookstore Extra in tomorrow's Observer for everything you always wanted to know about Bookstore, past, present and future. 
• • .Backs 

Your friends didn't know a serum from a dropkick. And they obviously didn't know enough to get out of the rain. But they did know how much this rugby game meant to you. So they hung in there-downpour and all. 
Now that '~..,
~~·--':"-~-:-~
the game's over, make your best move of the day. Lowenbrau for everybody. 
LOwenbriiu.Here's to good friends. 
c 1983 Beer Brewed 1n US A by M111er Brew1ng Co Milwaukee. WI 
continuedfrom page 16 
At 6-2, 205 pounds, Dave Mach­rolf is also in contention for tne ful­lback spot and should provide added reinforcement to the ranks. 
When discussing his players, Moore uses a low-key approach. In order to maintain the strong com­petition in practice, he prefers not to highlight each player's abilities. but he is willing to compliment the unit as a whole. 
"I'm very impressed with the at­titude and progress both as in­dividuals and as a unit," says the newest coach on Gerry Faust's staff "All of them sense and feel that they can improve." 
When fall arrives, 5-I0, IH5­pound Hiawatha Francisco will be on hand for the Irish. The consensus high school all-America should add more support to the Irish running corps. 
With so much talent abounding, it would appear that the Irish have great depth in the running back department. Moore, however, prefers to wait and see. 
"Hopefully we have it," he says. "They've made progress, but there is still a lot of room for improvement that would give us that depth." 
It appears that only time will tell for the Notre Dame running backs. 
The Observer Thursday, April 21, 1983 -page 13 
Fifth straight loss 
Baseball teaiD drops two to NU 
• • . Popson 

continuedfrom page 16 
Popson, "but we didn't talk at all about recruiting. We play differ<ent styles (Popson is a forward, Wolf a center) and I feel we can play well together." 
Although Popson mentioned "furthering his education" in his opening remarks yesterday, it is evi­dent that his choice was strictly dlue to of his admiration for Dean Smith, the legendary 21-year coach who led UNC to the NCAA championship in 1982 and has reached the Final Four on seven other occasions. 
"I liked North Carolina because of 
their coaching staff and their 
players," Popson said. "I got along 
really well with them when I visited. 
Nothing turned me off about Notre 
Dame. It's just that I liked North 
Carolina a little more." 
Phelps was not available for com­
ment, but released a briefstatement 
to the press last night. 
"We've known since November that David was leaning toward North Carolina," the statement read. "All we tried to do was to make him aware of the many advantages of attending Notre Dame. He's a fine young man, a super basketball player, and we wish him well." 
Phelps was not the only one let down by Popson's decision. David Popson Sr., who serves as Bishop O'Reilly's athletic director, also expressed his disappointment. 
"I'm definitely disappointed," said the elder Popson. "But it's his deei· ston and, whatever he wants, we'll accept it." 
Popson averaged 21 points and 13 rebounds per game while leading his team to a 101-27 record and three Wyoming Valley Conference titles in his four seasons. He also recorded 891 blocked shots and 4 51 assists for his career, while becoming only the third player in Pennsylvania his­tory to earn first-team all-state honors three seasons in a row. 
This past season, Popson averaged almost 26 points a game in pacing Bishop O'Reilly, a small Class A school, to a 27-6 slate before it was eliminated in the Class AAA state tournament. 

nght with two outs. Northwestern tied the score in 
the fourth inning with a sacrifice fly, 
the first ball hit out of the infield off 
Irish pitcher Steve Whitmyer. Whit­
myer, 2-5, had struck out six batters 
in the first three innings. 
Northwestern made it 4-1 in the 

..
fifth, when, with one out, the Wildcats chased Whitmyer with three runs on two hits, three walks, and two errors. Relief pitcher Tom Conlin finally ended the inning with two strikeouts. 
Notre Dame narrowed the gap in the sixth with two runs. The Irish scored with a walk, a Phil Dingle double, and a single by third baseman Carl Vouno. 
Northwestern put down the Notre Dame rally in the bottom of the sixth when it scored three times to increase the lead to 7-3. The Irish were unable to make up the dif­
By NEAL SMITH 
Sports Writer 
Extending its losing streak to t1ve, the Notre Dame baseball team was defeated in a doubleheader Tuesday 
b} the Northwestern Wildcats at Evanston, IlL The Wildcats won 7-5 in the opener and 3·0 in the shor­tened nightcap. 
Notre Dame had improved a 3-11 record by winning eight of its next nine games in a stretch trom March 31 through the first game of a doubleheader April 13 against Ball State. After losing the second game to Ball State 9-1, though, the Irish have proceeded to lose two to In­diana State and now two to Northwestern. 
In the first game against the Wildcats, the Irish took an early 1-0 lead. Centerfielder Steve Passinault knocked in the run with a single to ference as the best they could do was come up with two runs in the seventh on a Rick Chyst single, a double by Vouno, and an error. 

Because of darkness, the second game ofthe doubleheader went only six innings. 
In the six innings, the Irish col­lected only two hits. First baseman Greg Hudas singled in the second in­ning and Jack Moran later reached base on a hit. 
All three of the Wildcats' runs came off of home runs off pitcher Bill Matre, whose record fell to 3-4. 
In the fourth inning, Northwes­tern broke a scoreless tie with a two­run shot that gave the Wildcats all the runs that they needed. Another home run in the fifth, this time with­out anyone on base, accounted for the final Northwestern run. 
Th~ Obscrvrr/Scott Bower 

Notre Dame pitcher Steve Whitmyer was sharp in the early in­nings against Northwestern on Tuesday, but things went sourfor Whitmyer and tbe Irish in the later innings as they lost the opener ofa doubleheader. NU also took the second game. Neal Smith has more details on tbe bad day_at the left. 
Now it's the women's turn 
Today'sco­Tomorrow's Games SIIC1 SEMIFINALS Oreosvs. TBA(4) Stepan2 WhoCaresvs.leatllerand Lace (4:45) Wonner of Oreos-TBA vs. Winner of Who Cares· leather and Lace ( 4) 
SIIC2 Wonner of Last Drool .-Negligence vs. We Aon"t So Last Drool .vs Negfogence {4) Bad-Pneumothorax (5) We Aon·t So Bad vs. Pneumothorax (4.45) 
FINALS-Sunday, April 24, 11 a.m.,ACC 



FIGHTING IRISH ''GREEN'' 
The Gap at the University Park Mall is having a sale just for you! Present your Notre Dame of St. Mary's {student or faculty) 1.0. and receive $5.00 OFF any regular price purchase over $25.00!!! Coupon is good Saturday & Sunday, April 23 & 24. eouponisrequiredtorpurchase. 
GAP Jeans ............. 13.98 GAP Cords . . . . . . . . . 14.98 GAP Superblue Jeans 16.98 
GALS Spring Casuals ..... 16.99 Stonewashed Jeans. 16.99 Misses Piped Pants.. 16.99 Cotton & Denim Skirts .... 
... 14.98-17.98 

GUYS Jackets ............ 20°/o OFF Banded Collar Shirts ..... 13.98 Canvas Casuals .... 16.98-19.98 Durango Jeans .......... 19.98 Long sleeve button down collars 
... 9.99 
Located next to Sears 

Ip----------------~
COUPON II $5.00 OFF I 1 any regular price purchase I1 over $25.00. 1 

~----------------~ 



------------·-'It'!'"-·~--"'~""------~-.._,_.._._.......,._.___~....,....,........,___~--,~w_. .......,__ 
The Observer Thursday, April 21, 1983 -page 14 
-. 

Mary Colligan (right) and Pam Fisbette, the Notre Dame tennis team's No. 1 doubles team, have been enjoying a Jot of success Lately, as bas the rest ofthe team. Afterprobablyclinching an NCAA Division II tournament spot over the weekend, the team routed Northern Illinois, a Division I opponent, on Monday afternoon. An improvement in the team's morale bas been one of the main reasons for the success. jane Healey reports on the team's match against Northern IJJinois on this page. 
t lKniglJt& oftltt<!Iastlt 
54533 Terrace Lene, 
South Bend (Across from 
Merlin's on S.R. 23) 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 SAT. 8:30-5:30 


KEGS 

BUDWEISER .................. MILLER ...................... LITE .......·.................. 
PABST .............•......... 28.99 
OLD MILWAUKEE.............. 27.99 
I I 

QUARTS 
BUD ........................... 9.39 
! ~ 
MILLER ....................... 8.99 PABST ........................ 7.49 
I l 
I 
(iplaiOJ'ap 
SPiCEDRl_."i
• 


CHECK YOUR AN TOSTAL MAGAZINE OR THE SOUTH BEND TRIBUNE FOR MANY OTHER GREAT LIQUOR AND WINE SPECIALS. 
I 
PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH BEND AVE.
' 

STORE ONLY 
I ~ 
' 
1621 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
Haircut Shampoo Blowdry & Condition Reg. $15 NOW $8.50 with coupon 
Haircut only $6 with coupOf! 
(Hair must be washed day of cut) 

272-0312 277-1691 
($6 offer only applies to male patrons) 



("*J'targan 
SPICEJJRUM 
For bettertasting rum drinks 4.99 750ML 
LIMIT 1PER PERSON 
30.99 29.99 29.99 
Women's tennis 
Irish breeze past another opponent 
~ ~iJJJ--J(uMr.t-­
~ /'Requests for Refunds 
for Lil' Sibs' Weekend will be accepted through Friday, April22. Please drop off a written request to Student Government Offices 2nd Floor LaFortune No Extentions. 



PRICES GOOD THRU APRIL 23, 1913 
I!XI'I!PT 
Ct~ SAl~•:

Mix &Match liquor &Wine Cases 10% DISCOUNT 
ITt:~S 





DAILY TRIPLE 
THURSDAY ONLY 
4·21-13 
BUSCH .1!! 
6 
99 ['~!] 
CASE LIMIT 1PER PERSON 
THURSDAY ONLY 
4·21-13 
USHER'S 
SCOTCH 
9~1~1111 
"eel~" 
THURSDAY ONLY 
4-21-13 
CARLO ROSSI 
44.~ 
4LIHR LIMIT i PER PERSON 

SATURDAY ONLY 
4·23-13 


LIMIT 1PER PERSON 
LIMIT 1PER PERSON 
SATURDAY ONLY
FRIDAY ONLY 
4·22-13 
POPOV 
~ODKA 


6~~1111 



LIMIT 1PER PERSON 
FRIDAY ONLY 



SATURDAY ONLY 
4-22-83 
4-23-83 
GLENFIDDICH 
LANCERS 

2!.~, 

LIMIT 1PER PERSON
LIMIT 1PER PE 
"They are improving and they know it," Petro said. "Our goal (getting to the NCAA tournament) seems so much more realistic to them now. The closer you get to a goal, the more excited you get." 
The excitement is not just an in­dividualistic or selfish thing, though. It's a feeling the team is learning to share with each other. 
"The team is beginning to realize that whenever they play, they have 
~...There is more 
closeness on this team 
than any team in the 
recent past. .. ' 
to win for the team," Petro said. "Person No. 6 wins only one point for the team, just as person No. 1 on­ly wins one point for the team. The kids come in as individuals and I ask them to play for a team. That feeling is evolving this year." 
This weekend the Irish will travel to Purdue to put their new team ef­fort on the line. Purdue beat Notre Dame 7-0 earlier this fall, making revenge a prime motivation for vic­tory. 
"We have something to prove," 
Petro said. "I don't know ifwe'!! win, 
but I know we're not a 9-0 team 
aginst Purdue." 
This weekend also marks the last 
road trip for the team before the na­
tional tournament. It's a fact that 
Petro relishes. 
"This is our last road trip," she said. "It's been rough with all the travelling, but this will be our last midnight run and then it's home free until the NCAA's." 
I' 
i
I' 
, 

ByJANE HEALEY 
AssistantSports Editor 
It's getting to be old hat for the Notre Dame women's tennis team as they eaily defeated another Division I team, Northern Illinois 7-2 on Mon­day afternoon. 
"It was pretty easy," said Irish coach Sharon Petro. "It wasn't really that exciting. After the first three matches were over, I think the kids realized that it wasn't going to be that difficult. There was a bit ofa let­down." 
The Irish had just come off a suc­cessful weekend during which they knocked offthe University ofIllinois at Edwardsville to assure themselves ofreceiving an NCAA invitation. The excitemnt of the previous weekend wasn't present on the courts Mon­day. 
"We could have beaten them 9-0, but we let up a little," Petro said. "At the midpoint, we had three people come offquickly and easily. But then the others began to struggle." 
The three easy victories came at the No. 2, 3, and 4 singles positions. Lisa LaFratta, the No. 2 player, defeated Torrey Lott 6-2 and 6-3, while Pam Fischette and Susie Pan­ther, the No. 3 and 4 players, respectively, both blanked their competition 6-0, 6-0. 
Despite the difficulties, every match ended in victory except for No. 1 Mary Colligan's match which she dropped, 4-6, 5-7. Laura Lee struggled with Mary Ellis before finally defeating her 6-3, 6-7, and 6­
1. Cathy Schnell battled illness and Kris Habbard before coming out on top 7-6, 6-3. 
The only other Irish loss was a for­feit. After clinching the team victory, Petro decided to default the No. 2 doubles match due to the cold weather and physical strain on LaFratta and Lee. 
Although the victory was not something to write home about, Petro is finding some big rewards in the play ofher team. 
"The team unity is really coming to a head right now," she said. "There is more closeness on this team than any team in the recent past. They're having fun together." 
The unity is a product of the vast improvement in each player, and the improvement in each player's at­titude. 

HEINEKEN 
14 9~ 

I 
' I l 



~~========================~=== 




~~4()l~~============~=============T=h=u=rs=d=ay='=A=pr=il=2=1=,=1=98=3===p=a=g=e=1=5 
Bloom County 



Fate 
Wf'Rf HER£ AT fH( !AtM. OF NOTR( DAME WHEU A 
HIAD VOL.Lf't8AU. ((AIOIE' 
PE'(ffNERJ\T£0 INfO A MUD 
WRESTLINC,. ((WT£Sf. 
JWllliWlWW.. \ 
.. -.;... 

RE'PoRT'EDL.V OVER 3> C.O~(fE WOMEN Wfr£ INI/OI...VED IN ntiS MIISSIV[ 
eRAWL.. 

The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Berke Breathed 

)eb Cashin 
I ~~ ~;' 
~ 
.. 
.(/I 
Jj \ 
"'I'" Jo; I . ~ 1 
~!j 
Photius 


TlUO" CHI£f Of CAHPLt!; SfCV.IliTY CLAIM~ If w\'IS 
TilE' liiCo4ESI 8U Sf NOR( 
l}j\t1£ HAS Eve'~( SE£t./. 
~\ 
C.~MPV.S SEC.U.IUfY 1\U,lVfD JlA.~T AfTEft ONE VOUNC., LADY LOST HE( 1-S'HIItf 
IN THE ~"fFJ...E. 


ACROSS 28 Busy bird 1 Rings 32 French 6 Not any physicist 
10 Cartogram 36 Incarnation 13 Form for of Vishnu Wordsworth 37 Suffer! 
14 Word with 42 Ginkgo, angle or for one cast 43 Company 
15 Wrath lover 16 Land in 44 German trouble street 19 Like a 46 Rams' 
wasteland consorts 20 Folding bed 50 Time zone 21 Light letters 22 Que -(what 51 Make an 
will be ...) exchange 23 Clues 55 Poker 25 Southern offering 
monogram 57 Edible 26 Pashas mollusk 
Wednesday's Solution 
£nior Bar 
0~ ]ackOarnel's Bollenmakens * 
........... 
I 

tOniGht at S€ntOR &I< ,..' *ashot o~ )0 & aseeR chaseR 
~OR aV€RY SP€CIM PRIC€!! 
open 9:30-2:00 

Campus 
•1 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Men vs. Wisconsin, Counney Courts .,4 p.m. -Seminar, "Interactions of Low Energy Electrons with Atoms and Molecules," Dr. Asokendu Mozumder, Radiation Lab Conference Theatre 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Devotionalism and the Crea­tion of an American Catholic Ethos, 1850-1900," Ms. Ann Taves, Library Lounge 

•4:20 
p.m. Physics Colloquium, "Supersymmetric Grand Unification," Dr. D. R. T. jones, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•6:30 
p.m. -AIESEC Meeting, Little Theatre 

•7 
p.m. -Colloquium, "The Church in Nicaragua and Brazil Today," Panelists: Prof. Ralf Della Cava, Prof. Michael Dodson, Prof. Alfred Stepan, and Prof. Alexander Wilde, SpQnsored by Kellog Institute, 122 Hayes Healy 

•7 
and 9 p.m. -Film, "Pixote (Brazil)," Center for Social Concerns Auditorium 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "MASH," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Irish Mauraders, S 1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Biochemical Basis of Blood Clot Formation and Dissolution," Dean Francis ]. Castellino, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by College of Science Student Council, Reception following 

•8 
p.m. -Music Department Recital, Under­graduate String Quartet, Annen berg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m.-Play, "Man ofLa Mancha," ND/SMC Stu­dent Players, Washington Hall 


T.V. Tonight 
7p.m.  16  M*A*S*H  
22  Laverne and Shirley  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  The MacNeil/Lehrer Report  
7:30p.m.  16  AU in the family  
22  family feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
Sp.m.  16  Believe You Can and You Can  
22  Magnum, PI  
28  Benson  
34  AU Creatures Great and Small  
8:30p.m.  28  Condo  
9p.m.  16  Gimme A Break  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  ABC News Closeup  
34  Mystery  
9:30p.m.  16  Cheers  

The Far Side 

Suddenly, amidst all the confusion, Fifi seized the controls and saved the day. 
&an tostal 


27-Paulo 29 Hitchcock's "-Window" 30 Down-under 
bird 31 Informer 33 "-the 
word!" 34 Looks 
closely 35 Sounds of inquiry 37 Diminutive 
endings 38 Skill 39 Destructive 
insects 40 Exuberant 41 Manhattan 
ingredient 45 Yes man 47 Prodigal 48 Program 
addition 49 Way up or 
down 52 Females 53 Cuckoo 54 Border 
flower 56 Comics' 
Miss Kett 57 Accts. 58 Novelist 
Victor 59 Void's partner 
63 Cartoonist Gardner 64 Submerge 
60 Former actress Munson 
61 Be off! 62 Concentrate! 65 Period 66 Delight 67-Madre 68 Danger 
signal 69 Spirit 70 Flanders 
commune 
DOWN 1 Served, 
as tea 2 Whole 3 Sometime 
soon 4 Zodiac 
sign 5 Adhered 6 Super! 7 Spanish 
gold 8 Chimney corner 9 Lure 10 Philippine island 11 Seed 
covering 12 Fountain 13 Holiday 
spots 17 Caviar base 18 Implant 24 Carefree 
time 

••••,------~~---·~----.--..,-.--,---,.....~-~~------w_..__........-~~--,.....·----..u...-~--"'"--~-;,_------.,._-_.."""'~..---~---.---~·~-------~-:---~-~ 
~ ;
, 
Thursday, April21, 1983-page 16
SRotts 
Wants to play for Smith 
Popson chooses Carolina 
By CHRIS NEEDLES known that he had narrowed his in the world that I have to please, Sports EditorEmeritus choice of schools to two -North and that's myself." Carolina and Notre Dame -but that It had been rumored for several 
High school basketball star David he would not make his decision until weeks that Popson was leaning Popson of Ashley, Pa., announced his senior basketball season was toward North Carolina, but events of yesterday that he will continue his completed. this past weekend created a different basketball career at the University of "Next year 1 will be furthering my set of rumor.s that he had changed· North Carolina in the faiL education and playing basketball at his mind. First, there was the an­
Popson made his long·awaited the University of North Carolina," nouncement that Joe Wolf, a 6-10 decision public at a press con­Popson said when he reached the high school star from Kohler, Wis., ference yesterday afternoon at Bis­podium. "I've always wanted to play had verbally committed to North hop O'Reilly High School in for Coach Dean Smith, and when the Carolina. Then came word that Kingston, Pa., where he was an all­opportunity came, I couldn't pass it UNC's all-America center Sam state performer for three seasons up. Perkins would stay at Chapel Hill for and became a first-team All­"My parents wanted me to go to his senior season instead of declar­
American. Notre Dame, my coach (Jim Mahon) ing hardship and turning pro. 
The announcement ended wanted me to go to Notre Dame, my The presence of both Wolf and months of speculation that began in friends wanted me to go to Notre Perkins in the Tar Heel lineup November, when Popson made' Dame. But there's only one person figured to cut into Popson's poten­
tial playing time next season, thu:;. fueling these new rumors. But Popson insisted that he had
Double Decker barely 
his mind made up all along. "I always had a gut feeling about going to Carolina," Popson told The
wins; joins Elite Eight 
Obseroer yesterday. "Coach 
(Digger) Phelps visited my house ByJEFF BLUMB 16-1 5. At this point, however, last night (Tuesday) and I told him I Sports Writer Double Decker ran off a series of was going to North Carolina. That 
points to put the game out of reach. was when I first told anyone of my Perhaps Double Decker Oreo Still, it was not the best of nights decision. 
Cookie finally realized that it could for Double Decker. Its play seemed "(Wolfs and Perkins') decisions be beaten. Although it did win, 
lackadaisical and unorganized for didn't have any effect on my think­Double Decker got quite a run for its 
much ofthe game. The players knew ing. You've got to have confidence money when it played Nutmeggers that they could turn it off and on, so in your own ability to be able to step Are Back Again yesterday in sixth they played that way. in and do the job." 
round action of Bookstore XII. 

Nutmeggers also showed just how Popson has met Wolfon two occa­tough and evenly matched the sions, most recently at the tournament field is. Despite being McDonald's All-Star classic in At­the 16th seed, Nutmeggers played lanta last week. 
Bookstore XII 
an inspired game that might have "We got along really well," said 
been enough to beat any other team See POPSON, page 13
in the Sweet 16. 

However, the Double Decker­After coming out on top by a 21-Nutmeggers game was not the only 1 7 score, the top-seeded Double game yesterday that showed the 
'Healthy' competition 
Decker was counting its blessings -balance ofthe field. three, to be exact. Another example was the game First, it was fortunate that Nut­between the seventh-seeded team, 
Wealth ofbacks vies for two spots 
meggers did not hit better than 1 7 US, anq the 1Oth-seeded team, Brick of 62 from the field. Throwers. The game could not have 
By ED DOMANSKY teels that the players can benetlt So far Pinkett is pleased, but notSecond, it was lucky that been much closer -or better. 
Sports Writer from it. satisfied with his play during the Nutmeggers was only 1-4 from the US finally edged Brick Throwers, "I think it helps that they're pus­spring.
line. 24-22, after a long, spirited battle. 
As the 1983 spring football cam­hing each other," says Moore. "There is a lot of room for im­Finally, the other players were Senior Paul DeAngelis was outstand­paign at Notre Dame nears its final "There are two or three kids at each provement," he says. "I must worklucky they had Bill Varner on their ing for US, hitting 11 of his 14 shots, week, the battle among the running position that are close and still none on certain techniques, and spring is team as he hit on 13 of 24 shots and almost all of them from the same backs rages on. Since spring practice are tied down, and no one has a posi­the time to do it."
pulled down 14 rebounds, eight spots on the court. 
began back on March 26 ·many tion (guaranteed). I think each of Sophomores Ray Carter and Les-rebounds more than anyone else on The two teams were pretty much talented individuals have been the players realize that there is
the court. even in the shooting department, competing for the fullback and tail­strong competition and this is aDespite these blessings, though, with US making 24 :>f 42 and Brick back spots. healthy situation." 
Spring Football

Double Decker was in trouble until Throwers hitting at a 22-of-48 clip, Running back coach Mal Moore, At the tailback spot, junior Greg
the end. but the red-hot shooting of DeAn­in his first season at Notre Dame af­Bell returns with an extra year of 
I ~ ---'83After Double Decker jumped out gelis eventually proved to be the dif­ter serving under the illustrious Paul eligibility after breaking a bone in to an early lead, Nutmeggers pulled ference. Even the combined I 7 "Bear" Bryant at Alabama, his ankle against Purdue in thewithin striking range, finally making recognizes the competition and second game of last season and mis­ter Flemons, both ofwhom saw mosttheir move and closing the gap to See EIGHT, page 12 
sing the remainder of the season. In oftheir rookie action with the juniorI his two games, the 6-0, 204-pound varsity, arc also working hard this 
I 
Bell carried 24 times for 123 yards spring. and one touchdown. Although cur­At fullback, junior Mark Brooks rently sitting out spring drills in or­has had to settle for a part-time role 
t der to ensure that his ankle is in his first two seasons while tuning thoroughly healed, it is hoped that up his blocking and running skills.
I 
he will be at full strength come the Last season, the 6-3, 228-pound fall. His 512 yards rushing during junior carried the ball 30 times and 198I made him the second-best gained 96 yards. Brooks is also Irish rusher, and his 5.6-yard per car­regarded as a top-notch pass ry average was best on the team. Bell receiver, as he gathered in seven was a second-team selection on the receptions for 43 yards. Active in all Sophomore All-America team as but two games his rookie year, named by Football News. Brooks accumulated 126 yards rus­
Sophomore Allen Pinkett also hing and one touchdown. returns at tailback this spring. His Junior Chris Smith at 6-2, 222 532 yards rushing last season made pounds, is also a strong contender him the team's second-leading rus­for the fullback spot. Smith played her. That total also ranks him second his rookie season at tailback and only to Jerome Heavens for most then asked to be moved to lineback­yards gained in a season by a fresh­er last season. man. Heavens had 756 for the Irish "It was a case of both frustration in 1975. Some of Pinkett's more and wanting to contribute that led notable achievements in 1982 in­me to to ask to be moved to cluded a 76-yard touchdown run linebacker and then back to fullback against Piu and a 93-yard kickoff again," said Smith earlier this spring. return for a touchdown against Penn "l see now that my playing .at ful­State. lback is the best for the team. I think 
When speaking about the upcom­my skills are more suited to the fuJ. ing Pinkett states, "I
Allen Pinkett (25), shown here blowing past season must !back position. I'm very comfortable relax and be satisfied with the five­now."
some teammates in a scrimmage, is one of the 
yard gain. I don't need a breakway
leaders ofa very deep backfield. The competition 
See BACKS, page 12run to be happy."

for tailback and fullback bas been intense this 








