John Paul -page 3 

the imkpt:mknt student newspaper sen·ing notre dame and saint man·.~ 
Ticket scalpers popular at campus 
ByKEVIN BINGER 
StaffReporter 
$30 will get you a Navy ticket. S35 will gt·t you a \1ichigan State ticket. 
The keys to Fort Knox won't get you a USC ticket if we're still un­defeated. 
Notre Dame Security Director Glenn Terry's voice reveals frustra­tion and anger when he discusses ticket "scalping," the selling of tick· ets at higher than face value. 
"There's very little in the law that we can do about it so we don't even want to talk about it. We can'tstop it, but we would like to tell those people (the ticket "scalpers") to just disappear from this campus," Terry said. 
There is, in fact. nothing in the law against ticket scalping. :\1ichael Barnes, St. Joseph County prosecut­ing attorney, said the law against ticket scalping was dropped from the Indiana penal code in the late IHOO's. 
"It's been the position ofthe state of Indiana that the dollar amount listed on a ticket is adequate warn­ing to anyone who might be in a position to buy it," said Barnes. 
Notre Dame's position is just the opposite. The University disap­proves of posters on bulletin boards and personals inTbe Obsen'er asking for tickets; and the ticket sellers outside ofthe stadium on Saturdays. 
"Anythingon campus is under our jurisdiction," said Ticket Director Steve Orsini. "There is a campus law against scalping." 
However, because ofthe difficulty enforcing the law on game days, no arrests have ever been made. 
"What we end up doing is to threaten them (ticket scalpers around the stadium) with trespass­ing," said Terry. "They're on private property making a profit on some­thing they just don't have a right to. If they don't cease and desist, we might just bring them in on trespass­ing charges and wrestle with the prosecuter's office when it comes to that." 
Another method that ha'> been used to discourage scalping is dis­continuing season ticket.~ to people caught scalping. This happened once la~t year when Orsini heard about a scalper in South Bend and hire dan undercover policeman to buy tickets from him. 
The policeman payed S75 for the tickets. The scalper's name was sub­sequently removed from the seao;on ticket list. Orsini estimated, however, that this has happened on­ly five to ten times in the last 20 
years. 
A related problem that happens much less frequently is ticket for­ging. Terry remembers uncovering forged tickets after a \1arquette­Notre Dame basketball game three years ago. 
"Tickets were hard to come hy 
and somebody came up with a pret­
ty good replica," said Terry. 
But there have been no known 
ca~es of forgery since Orsini took 
over at the ticket office. 
See SCALP, page 5 



Annual panty raid still a tradition at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame 
ByjiMPERNM. I never expected this much fun." A 
News Staff 
Saint \1ary's junior said, "It (the They came in droves, just as al­panty raid) gives freshmen a chance ways. to break through the social barrier 
Not even a strongly worded letter that exists when meeting the op· from Saint \1ary's Dean of Student positc sex." Affairs Karol Jackowski could stop One freshman confessed, "We're Notre Dame freshmen from their an­fortunate to be old enough to know nual pursuit oflingerie in last night's better; yet young enough to enjoy panty raid. ourselves." 
In a \1onday letter to Saint Mary's Other Saint .\1ary's girls were not women, Jackowski called the event as positive, however. A Regina South "mindless and degrading," and said resident said. ''I'm all for tradition, she would let students discuss the but not when it becomes so demean· necessity of the tradition. Voting ing to the participants." with their yells and tosses, students Two outside observers coming from both campuses apparently still from a performance' by the In­favor the raid, which occurs on the dianapolis Ballet Theatre on Saint Wednesday before the first home Mary's campus gave this advice: 
football game. "Enjoy what can be the best years of One Saint Mary's freshman stated, your life, but don't screw it up with "It's great to have fun in college, but something like this." 
Nevertheless, the panty raid ap­peared succt:ssful for the male par· ticipants. Some Notre Dame freshmen were ahle to collect more than a dozen panties, while others \Valkcd away with a handful of names and phone numbers. 
A Keenan freshman t:xclaimcd. "It's a great opportunity to meet girls, hut I hate to be at their mercy." Another freshman remarked, "This is why I came to collegc...for the cul­tural experience." 
By sundown the festivities were well underway. Groups offreshmen. 30 to 40 strong, joined forces, creat­ing mobs along the trek to Saint .\1ary's. With hundreds crossing Route ~I at each changing of the light, all that the Saint \1ary's security guard could do was grin and wave. 
As the evening progressed, a few strong-willed freshmen attempted to scale the walls of Regina South in their struggle to capture "just ont: more." However, most studt:nts were pulled down by classmatt:s without incident. 
Not everyone was as thrilled with the event as the fresh men. .Just after H p.m., a Notrt: Dame tiretruck arrived after an alarm had bet:n pulled in Rt:gina South as a prank. The firdightcrs were indignant at being called in for such "child-like foolishness." as one tirctlghter called the raid. 
Security cars continued to patrol the campus after the tlrctruck left . Saint \1ary's security would not dis­cuss the cvt:ning's events. Said one. "It is all contained in Dean Roemer's letter. We have no other comment." 

Throngs ofeager Notre Darne men stampede down the road to Saint Wary's to partake in the traditional pan~v raid. The brief encounter happens every fall on the Wednesday before tbe first home game. Entbusiasrn for tbe annual et•ent did not appear to waverdespite disapprovalfrom the deans ofboth schools. 
Quaker Oats' Cap'n Crunch captures college market 
By AMY STEPHAN 
Copy Editor 
Cap'n Crunch never expected to branch out from his Saturday morn­ing commercial spot onto a univer­sity campus, hut the captain will arrive at Notre Dame with treasure 
-chests to feed his fans in the college market. 
Cap'n Crunch Week, planned for Oct. 17-21, is the first corporate­sponsored event the administration has approved, according to Jim 
McDonnell, director of student ac­tivities. 
"\1any industries are trying to get into the college market," said \1cDonnell. "And the beer industry is trying the hardest. We're being bombarded by requests from in· dustry to sponsorevents on campus. 
"Our policy is to say no to all beer and tobacco companies. Any other requests we consider on a individual basis. This is the first big event we've approved," McDonnell said. 
One of the reasons the event was approved was hccausc the idea was 
initiated by the sophomore class, said .\1cDof1nell. In order for any corporate-sponsored event to he ap· proved, it would have to be sponsored by an inside group. 
"Had (Quaker Oats) come to us, we would have probably said no," said President for Student Affairs, Father John Van Wolvlcar who gave the official approval for the event. 
Van Wolvlear first heard about Cap'n Crunch week in a letter from 
McDonnell this summer. "He ( \1cDonncll) said the sophomores were all excited about it. I didn't want to thwart them," Van Wolvlcar said. 
Van Wolvlcar said that the fact that .'VIc Donnell was in favor of the event influenced his decision to ap· prove it. 
Another factor in the event's ap· proval is that it "benefits more than just the students," said Van Wolvlcar. Quaker will donate S1000 in food to a charity to be named by the sophomore class. 
The event was not, however, ap­proved as it was first proposed by Quaker. Van Wolvlcar insisted that no events be held on Saturday, or in the stadium. 
We arc "not going to advertise a product like that," said Van Wolvlcar of a proposal that Cap'n Crunch hid the students good-bye while riding a boat-shaped float around the stadium. 
Van Wolvlcar said that he is "not overly pleased with the extent ofthe celebration. We're here to study, not cat Cap'n Crunch." 
Both Van Wolvlcar and MeDon· nell view Cap'n Crunch Week as a sort oftest for this type ofcorporate· sponsored event. "We're just waiting to sec how this goes," said Van 'Wolvlear. 
\1cDonncll said that corporate­sponsored event~ that arc initiated by an inside group will have the best chance of being approved. But he adds that he doesn't want to say that no event initiated by a corporate sponsor can he approved "because someone might come up with some­thing that would be good for the stu· dents." 

Navy looks 
for 


black box 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -As a specially equipped Navy tugboat began a search for the "black box" of Korean Air Lines flight 007, President Reagan yesterday dispatched Federal Aviation Administrator ]. 
Lynn Helms to .\1ontrcal to seck an international inquiry into the Soviets' downing of the Korean jumbo jet. 
Reagan's national security adviser meanwhile predicted the Soviets would "fabricate so-called newly discovered evidence" to prove the airliner was on a spy flight. 
"The absolute· and incontrover­tible fact is that KAL 007 was not on an intelligence-gathering mission of any kind," National Security Adviser William P. Clark said in remarks prepared for the Air Force Associa­tion C.on.vention. 

The Observer Thursday, September I 5, 1983 -page 2 
~Jn.Brie£ 
Jo Ann Starr Harrelson says ~he and her husband 
Charln, convil'!nl of assassinating a federal judge, are getting a divorce as "a mutual sort of thing." \1rs. llarrdson, .f~, is serving ~0 yt·ars in a kderal prison after hdng convictt:d of conspiring to ohMrul'! justice. perjury and using a false name to purchase a tlrearm -all chargt·~ stemming /rom the \1ay 29, 1979. killing of U.S. Dis­triu .Judgt· John II. Wood Jr. llarrdson is serving consecutive life st·ntt·nn·'· "1 signed some papers last week and the divorct: is supposed to be final at the end ofOctober," she told the San Anlonio Light hy telephone Tuesday. She said tht· reason~ arc "too numerous to name." .-11' 
An impasse has been declaredintaikshetwt:cn 
Fastnn Airlines and it' 'i.HOO-mt·mher flight attendants' union, who 
willlw lrtT to strike Oct. I_; unless an agreement is rt·ached by tht:n. 
l·nkral mediators lkdart·d the impasM· Tuesday in \1iami after I H 
month' of lll'gotiations and just lh-e months aftt·r Eastern avoided a 
'trike hy it' I 5. 'iOO-•ncmher machini.,ts' union. Eastern spokesman 
Tom \tyer' said the company's late'! offer would give the highest 
paid altnHiant'. who earn S26.""'i0 after 12 years, a raise to 550.000. 
Till' rabt·, would he retroactive to ApriiAP 
About 50 police and health officials found 
thousands of gallons of illegally stored hazardous wastes during a raid yestt:rday at a LaPorte County chemical recyding firm. "This isn't just a little technical violation," said Indiana Attorney General Linley E. Pearson. "It's mammoth in scope. That's why we had so many people up there." The recycling firm, l'isher-Calo Chemicals and Solvents Corp. of Chicago. allegedly is storing hazardous materials. primarily acids and solvents, in at least five unapproved sites at Kingsbury Industrial Park, Kingsbury, ln., ahout seven miles south of LaPorte, Pearson said. Fisher-Calo's Kingsbury plant was the site of a three-day tire in 197H in which spilled toxic wastes con· taminatt·d tht· soil. The cleanup of th<lt nmt<~minatcd dirt still is the subject of legal action. LaPorte Circuit judge Rohert S. Gettinger onkred search warrants for the raid yesterday, which involved offi· dais from the attorney general's otlke, the Indiana State Board of llealth. the fc:deral Environmental Protection Agency, Indiana State Police ;mll tht· LaPorte County health and sheriffs departmentsAP 
The U.S. Army, reluctantly marching in 
stt·p with rnodnn htshion. has decided that women in uniform can wt·ar e1rrings -as long as they're not gaudy and "tit snugly against the car." Since the I <)70s, women in tht· ranks have filed "numerous requnts" for permission to wear the jewelry on duty, according to an Army spokesman. llut the change in n·gulations was ordered only last month aftt·r a long study by tht· Army's I :nifi>rm Board. The new directin· wa~ praised ye~terday hy some women workin~ at the Pen­tagon. "I like it," said Spec. 'i Dannette Halt:,'-\lVho w<ls~hb't wearing earrings, hut who said she usually wears tht:m once or twice a week. Spec ·i Jam· Thomson, wearing a tiny pearl on each car, agreed. "It's about time." But not evt·ryont· was happy. One colonel, who dt•clined to he identified because "it's Army policy now and wc'vt: got to tcJIIow it," said, "It's not likt: the old days. You sort of wonder what's corning next."AP 
Maine's state archaeologistat first tMught a hone 
found hy a construction worker in Gardiner, Maine, might be a major 
historical find. Arthur Spiess theorized that the small toe bone indi­
cated that early hunters were living in Maine 12,000 years ago ­
much earlier than had heen helieved -since it was scratched and !ound in a layer of ice-age day. He dug deeper Tuesday in search of additional evidence. Spiess found three more bones -hut below that he turned up hrick fragments, then a hoard and the sole ofan old shoe. He and Woodrow Thompson of the Maine Geological Survey also found a rose-headed nail, which Spiess said dated the trash at pre-1 H~O. He now guessed the hone came from a goat, and probably in the 1 Hth or 19th century. Tuesday's discoveries indicate the clay was dumped at the site "probably hy the wagonload -tons of it," 
said Spiess. Spiess called Tuesday's effort "a good object lesson in 
how sdt·ncc is supposed to work." "It's a worse crime not to check it 
than it is to be wrong," he said. "I'm just glad we got clear 
t·vidence.",tP 

Weather 
<> 
Increasing cloudiness and coohhursday 
wuh a 50 pen:enr t·hance of showers by e~·ening. High 70 to 7'i. An HO pern·nt dJ;~nce of rain Thur.!>day night. Breezy and warmer.' Low In the mid to upper ;;(h. Chance oflingcrin~ showers Friday. High in the.• hl\\' ..,Os_ AP 




Salty Fish and Sugar Candy 
We have not journeyed all this way across the cen­turies, across the oceans, across the mountains, across the prairies, because we are made ofsugar candy. 
Winston Churchill 

EDINBURGH, Scotland -Winston Churchill may have been speaking about the will ofthe British people against Hitler in World War II, but there is no denying that when Churchill delivered these words before the Canadia t n parliament in 1941, he probahly had a bar of chocolate in his top coat pocket. And it probahly wouldn't he too far-fetched to think he even may have had fried fish on his breath as well. 
If it weren't for sugar and salt, the Brit t ish people, especially the Scottish, could not survive. Whether meat or sweet, Scottish add the equivalent of a salt shaker or sugar bowl to everything they eat. 
But before I caught myself feeling elitist ahout the 
whole thing two days after And much likt: salty fast arriving in Edinburgh, I had food, sugar-enriched fast li\'cd the tale of the llgly food is also two-thirds tht: American, <:omplett: with price of American candy. every conceivable com­Candy rardy sells for more plaint about how much I than the 17 pence, ap· hated all that sugar and salt. proximately 25 cents, and What I had forgotten was the fierce competitiveness that Americans hide a of the companies often tablespoon of salt in hot lowers the prices to as little dogs and dissolve eight as I 0 pence for a candy bar teaspoons of sugar in soft which would sell for 40 drinks. cents in the U.S. 
Scottish fast food res­If Scottish men and taurants are no different women get tired of candy than in the U.S. -just more they can always choose personal than McDonald's, sugar-saturated pastry, often Burger King, or Wendy's. 41_____...::_.WWl.LIL----JW~:.~~n-~:-.:-as readily available as candy. 
People actually said more to 
~ Whether it's pineapple, me than "May I help you?" coconut, or strawherry (the 
although their Scottish sense of propriety rarely would allow them to look me in the eyes when they said "Thank you." 
Atrip to a fish and chipper anywhere in Scotland was enough to give me high blood pressure until I remem­bered that salt is a lot cheaper and more efficient than rt:frigeration and salt supplements. 
Scottish haddock and chips, doused in grease, salt, and vinegar, was enough to make my timid American taste buds think I was savoring an oil spill on the Great Salt Lake. 
Steak and kidney pies, sausage rolls, and meat pies also come with their complement ofsalt -so much in fact, I wondered if Morton's salt company owned every fish and chips shop in Scotland. 
But it's when Scotsmen tlnish their meals that they show their true colors and their sweet teeth. According to the Guinness Book of World Records; the average Scot consumes mort: than nine ounces of candy per 
r-The_Obs.er.:v:er__ 
Composition Editor................... Tom Sapp Composition Assistant .... Carole Laugier Typesetters ................................................. Bill News Editor ........................................... Anne Editorials Layout ............. Thomas Robert Sports Copy Editor ................ Mike and).P. Features Layout.................................... Mary ND Dap Editor..........................................]eff S~C Day Editor............................ Mary Ann Photographer..........................................Pete GuestAppearances Mark, Bob, Vic, Marc, The end ofprofimdity, A non-respondent 
D.)., Babka and Adams, Inc., Hawthorne is, keeping me up all night!!' 
"Mamas, don't let your babie' 
Grow up to be Systrm M.anager.s . .. 
\1:'.-'re back. 

I $41f you bring this ad with you. 1
The oe.twr(USPS 598 920) 18 published Monday th(~ugh Friday, 
1, 1 (offer applicab,~e:.to first lime donars only1) I and on home football Saturdays. except durmg exam and vacation 
••. For more in, 1'\tion call 1 penods. TM OtaMrver IS published 
J 234·6010iqrcomebyfh.,illncolnway West I
by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s College. Subscnpllons may lle purchuad tor $25 per year ($15 per semeater) by wrrt1ng The 

I AMERICA~";~~A SYSTEMS IObMrwr. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
A National Concern Dedicated to Extending the Lives of Others 
The ~ 15 a member of 
Tues and Sat 8am-5pm

I I
'"" AMOclMed ........ Aft 
reproduction rlqllts are reserved. 




I ..1
Wed and Fri 9am-5pm 
....4---"

---...---------------I 
I  INFLATION  -(  
I  GOIYOUI  I  
II  BLOOD BOILING?  II  
II  We can help relieve some of. that pressurel  II  

r----------------~
I 
I HOW?we will pay you I
I I
up to $16 CASH Per week for your time. 
I I
It's easy. Just come in to our new modern facility relax in comfy 
I I
reclining chairs while you donate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA. 
I I 
I 
You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your second donation within the same week...AND we will give you a 
I 

tree physical exam and over $60 worth of free lab tests. 
I PLUS I
I I
We Will Give You an Additional 
Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 


Inside Thursday 


week, the equivalent ofseven chocolate bars. 
Candy is literally everywhere in Scotland: newspapers stands, fish and chip shops, train stations and grocery stores. And stores sell mort: than just a few bars ofchocolate or a box ofmints under a glass-topped cashier counter. 
When merchants sell candy, they cram an entire rack with rows and rows ofevery imaginable sweet-every­thing from jellies to nougats to creamed fudge to chocolate-covered mints. 
national favorite), tarts serve to top offany meal, including breakfast. 
One gaze at Scottish smiles though, gives the telling price of such bountiful and inexpensive sweets ­rotted teeth and diseased gums. 

So as Amt:ricans and Scotsmen together continue to poison their mouths and stomachs with junk food. they do so with one important difference: the way in which they buy their junk food. Lazy Americans huy almost all of their junk food out of a deaf and dumb machint:. Thankfully, in Scotland, persons, though sometimes in­different to the customer. still outnumber mindles~ mt·tal boxes -and we just may have Winston Chur­chill, fish and chips, and sugar candy to thank t(>r that. 
The Observeris always tookinp.Jor neu•talent. If }'Oil are interested in newspaper u•riling or .newspaper production, stop up at The Observer office on tbe Jrd floor of the LaFortune Sllldent Center. 
.";'"... 



·•-·· 




The Observer 
Moscow remains firm; no arms reductions planned 
Associated Press Genev;, negotiations." "inappropriate" for his gov<;rn ment "But despite this incident," the to pay compensation for the 269 vic­MOSCOW The outrage president continued, "I still confirm tims of the attack. Repeating the generated by the Soviet downing of that my firm commitment to reach Soviet charge that the plane was on a a South Korean airliner will not an accord at Geneva remains un­spy mission for the United States, he force .Moscow to make concessions changed." said Washington bore the respon­in the Geneva talks on limiting Kornienko, holding his second sibi\jty for the intrusion of the air­
nuclear weapons in Europe, First news conference in five days, said, liner into Soviet airspace. lkputy Foreign :vtinister George M. "There is no connection and there 
Kornienko stood fast on PresidentKornienko said yesterday. cannot he any connection" between 
Kornienko, in statements to a the downing of the Korean jumbo 
to reduce the Soviet arsenal of SS-news conference, agreed with Presi­jet on Sept. I and the negotiations to 20s and other medium-rangedent Reagan's assessment that the limit the deployment of medium­missiles in Europe to 162, the num­negotiations will continue. But both range nuclear missiles in Europe. 
ber of British and French rockets,stood pat on their governments' last What matters, he added, is not 
and to destroy more than -tOOproposals, and a Soviet spokesman whether Soviet and American 
missiles that would be removed ifadded a new demand. negotiators in Geneva "smile at each 
the United States canceled its
Reagan -in a letter to Italian other or frown at each other" but 
deployment of 572 Pershing 2 and
Premier Bettino Craxi -wrote that the substance oftheir positions. 
cruise Tomahawk missiles in t1vethe "brutal Soviet aggression toward Asked hy an American reporter if 
European countries beginning inthe South Korean plane. the Soviet there might he concessions to offset December.
disregard of the worldwide expres­the damage done to the Soviet image sions of indignation, their attempt to by the downing ofthe plane and the The t1rst deputy chief of staff of mask the truth and their insensibility death ofthe 269 people aboard, Kor­the Soviet armed forces, Vlarsh;tl Ser­toward the victims of this tragedy nienko said :vtoscow's position gei F. Akhromeyev, appeared at the and their families have seriously would remain the same. news conference with Kornienko • damaged the atmosphere of the He also said it would be and ;~mplified Andropov's proposal. 
NATO reports Soviet increases 
' Associated Press range, the sources said. The sources said the report was The Soviet Union is distributing based on satellite observations and 
BRUSSELS, Belgium -The Soviet new nuclear-capable artillery to its other intelligence-gathering means, Union is rapidly modernizing its bat­forces in eastern Europe, including which were not described. tlet1eld nuclear forces in East bloc about 150 artillery pieces in East The Soviet Union this year countries, adding new artillery and Germany, said the sources quoting a threatened to deploy nuclear deploying sophisticated SS-21 rock­new NATO report and speaking on weapons in Eastern Europe if NATO ets at a rate of four a month, NATO the condition they not be identified. goes ahead with plans to put 572 sources said yesterday. The report was part of an intel­new Pershing 2 and cruise missiles 
The SS-21, with a range of 75 ligence update given this week at a in Western Europe starting in miles, is a mobile surface-to-surface meeting in London ofsenior nuclear December. missile being phased in to replace affairs specialists from most ofthe 16 The Soviets also are building three Frog-7 missiles with about half the NATO national dekgations. new bases. 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the ''Terrace Lounge'' 
South Bend's largest 
34 oz. tankard ·'I of beer is only 
'\ \1 

d : ·;; /1 $2.50 'i (Sorry. No mug sales this year.~ 
SOUTH BEND _\\QrrtOtt 
HOTEL 
123 ~.St. Jost>ph Slret>t. South Hend, Indiana 46601 


BANKING...NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank is pleased to announce the opening of our new office at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, on August 29, 1983! 
Free checking is available to St. Mary's and Notre Dame 
students and faculty. • In addition, our newest office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours · Monday through Friday August 29 -September 2 -9:00 a.m. -5:30 p.m. September 6-September 16 -12:00 noon-5:30 p.m. Permanent hours to be announced. 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service! 



~l:':~e 
Member F.D.I.C. 
Thursday, September 15, 1983 -page 3 
Crowding around 
Popejohn Paul II greeis Korean pi!gri•ns in Saint Peter's square during his traditional :Vednesdll}' audience. 

9-15 Arrow Schnapps Party 
schnapps shots $.75 Get the Michigan State Weekend Started 
9-16 T.G.I.F Bud Happy Hour 
BIG 16 oz. Bud cans $1.25 First 50: Free Bud Caps 2 for 1 Bar Drinks &Free Munchies 
9·17 Pre-Game Party 
Open 11am Double Screwdrivers & Bloody Marys: $1.00 
HATE STATE GO IRISH 

HOW do I know if the Lord is calling me to minister as a Brother? 
HOWdoes my being a Brother meet my need for prayer, community sharing and service? 
HOWdo I pray to discover God's call in my life? 
WHAT are the various ministries of Holy Cross Brothers? 
H 0 W do Brothers respond to the needs of our day: commitment to Jesus in the poor, the oppressed, in areas of social justice? ,.....___ 
WHAT is the process for becoming a Brother? 
Contact: 
Br. David Baltrinic, c.s.c. 103 Columba Hall Notre Dame, IN. 46556 
239-7830 


''. 
J 
The Observer Thursday, September 15, 1983-page 4 
Marine to face court martial 


CA \11' I'ENDI.ETON, Calif. -An 
lndianapoli~ \1arim· who allegcdly 
Wt'nt ht·r~crk on a rille range and 
lwgan shooting at ti.:llow \1arincs has 
hn·n on.krnl to r;tec a gt·ncral 
courl-marlial. olliciab at Camp 
l't·ndlt-ton \Iarine Corps hast· said 
yesterday. 
l.antT Cpl. Jay 1>. Jackson, I H, \\·ill 
ht· tril'd on charge.s of attt·mpted 
munlt-r, l1fting a weapon to a supe 
rior officer, kidnapping, assault and 
disohnlit·nn· of lawfltl orders. 
The dJargt·s stem from a Jum· 2.~ mcidt·nt at tht· hast· that occurred whilt-more than 200 men from Company 1'. ~th l{egi mnll. wen· engaged in a target practice ~t·ssion with thl'ir \1-16 rilks. 
\1arine otlkials say that Jat·kson sudtlt-nly startnl spraying hulleb toward his company matt·s instead of at the targt·t, then took three \iarines hostage ;;ud tried to make a gt·taway in a ':111 hcfiJre he was stopped when he was _.,hot in the hack hy one ol hi~. c.1ptives. 

The \1arint·s say Jackson comm;m­deernl a gon·rnnH'nt van and forced ih driver, and 2nd Lt. Kevin P. \1urphy, of \linlttapolis, .\1inn., and Chid \X' arrant (Htker James A. Craig, 5-t, ot llot1stc m. to accompany him to lluntin·~···n Beach so he could 'otT his ~i, !friend. 
\1ilitary po!" ,· hlocknJ hi.s escape route, how,·• n .\t that point. Jack­son told Craig w g('t out of the van to wave tlw \11'-. <,IJ, authorities said. \1oments later. \1urphy and Jackson ht·gan strug~Lng on:r a loaded rille and Craig.\\ hu had hidden a pistol in hb hack pot·J..ct, tlrt·d three shots through a closed window, hitting the suspen 
AP PhoJ, 
Chical!,o (·ity u•orker Carl Culotta clamps the first Delll'er hoot onto tm iiii!I!,CIIIl' parked car helmtl!,illl!, to
Chicago clamps down Ahmad Sbeikbt•mul Tuesday as tbe Ci~l' of Cbical!.o hel!,tm a campaiRn to recm•er some 1~/ tbe S22 million in parking fines tbat go unpaid eacb year. 





EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
~ 
Student rampage ends in death 
Associated Press But, Ncwberg said Smith walked caused Smith to go on the rampage 
out of the classroom and hack three that ended in his death. 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -An In­times .\1onday and ate two bananas \1onroe County Coroner Dr. John diana l 'niversity profcssor said yes­in class. The profcssor, agn·eing Pless said he plans to search li>r a tcrday ti>rrner Ill li>othall playcr with earlier statements hy ti>rmer medical cause of the violent be­Demer Smith was acting irrationally coaches of Smith, said hb behavior havior. 111 class a short ti mc before he was Monday was "completcly out of "What contributed to his be­shot 10 death by polict·. character." havior is still a question," Plt'ss said. 
The 'i-t(JOt-1 I. 2"70-pound senior Newberg said he ht·came con­"Something was affecting his brain. wa' shot to death .\1onday by police cerned and talked wirh Smith for It was not entircly normal." responding to a report of a distur­ahout I 0 minutes after class. Ill' said Bloomington t:ity ofticial~ haH; bance. he thought Smith acted like sc:hedult'd a news conti.:rencc today 
Sam ;\lewherg. assistant professor someone under the inlluenct· of to discu~~ tlw incident. of physical education and Smith'~ drugs, but said Smith dt·nicd being Pless said Smith appeared to han· acadt'llliC advist~r. said Smith nor­on drugs. died ti·o•n .1 shot tc the che~t. I k also mally took notes and responded to Te~ts will he conducred to had thrt'l' other gunshot wounds in class discussions. detcrmine 1f mediCal ahnormalitte~ hi-. arms and stdt·, Plt·ss said. 
Buy any pair of regular-priced or sale-priced denim jeans for Juniors, Young Men or Children, and get a credit card calculator for just 1.00! 
Juniors at Ayres: choose from Sasson, Jordache, And for girls and boys: girls' Jordache, Gloria Vanderbilt, Calvin Klein, Lee, Zena and other Gloria Vanderbilt, Zena and Lee in sizes 7 to 14 famous makers in sizes 5 to 13, 19.99 to 41.00 and Young Juniors' 6 to 14, 24.00 to 32.00. From the Varsity Shop: choose fro~l) Levi's, Lee. Boys' Lew:~,Jor~i)S:h~. Le,e and, FarW1, _in sizep 8 to 20, 
Calvih Klein, Jordache and oth~r f~ous makers i.. 16.00 .tO;' aQ~OO. J9i¥JS for toddlers-.,;f1to, 4, ·.. in Young Men's waist sizes 28 to :i_s_ , ~--~_::.99 to 38.00 ; .girls' '4 to '6x a_~~.. b.oys 4 to 7 also a~~lablei~.oo to 23.00 
I' -~· r, ~ r... ,.. "'' . . ..,,,rn1 ,Pi1
.}· '~1A't~~~i..-'i JJ .~~)w)i M ,..,, ... .:, ,.. ,
lJ..j-ry~ D(7. I • > '>1'1'.' J• 
CHARGE IT TODAY ... AT AYRES! Shop Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park today, 10:00 to 9:00. 
The Observer Thursday, September 15, 1983 -page 5 
Robert Kennedy, Jr. hospitalized while attorlleJS investigate case 

Airliner collides with plane killing ten 
PEKING -A domestic airli 1cr carrying I00 passengers colliued with a military plane just before taking off from the tourist city of Guilin yesterday, killing I 0 people, the official Chinese news agency Xinhua reported. 
The CAAC airliner carried some foreigners, Xinhua said. But the news agency did not say if any ofthe visitors had been killed or injured. 
Xinhua said 2I people were injured in the runway collision in the south China city, a frequent stop­ping place for foreigners and Chinese because of its mountains and river views. 
It was the fourth fatal accident 
involving the government airline 
CAAC in the last 17 months and the 
second crash in the Guilin area. 
CAAC stands for Civil Aviation Ad­
ministration ofChina. 
Xinhua said the CAAC three­
engine, British-built Trident was 
about to take off for Peking when it 
collided with the military plane. The 
Xinhua report, which was 
transmitted more than 12 hours af­
ter the crash, gave no details on how 
the crash occurred. 
A spokesman for the U.S. Cons­
ulate in Canton, about 240 miles 
southeast of Guilin, said the cons­
ulate had been told no Americans or 
Japanese were among the casualties. 
The spokesman asked not to be iden­
tified by name. 
••• SCALP 
The tickets are printed on a spe­cial "safety stock" paper that is made up of several multi-colored layers which are visible when the ticket is ripped. 
The tickets, printed by Weldon, Williams & Lick -the same com­pany that prints Superbowl tickets -are very expensive. "We pay top dollar but we feel it's worth it for the security," said Orsini. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Robert F. Ken­nedy Jr., under investigaticn by au­thorities in South Dakota, said yesterday he has admitted himselfto a private hospital for treatment ofan unspecified drug problem. 
"With the best medical help I can find, I am determined to beat this problem," the 29-year-old Kennedy said in a statement issued through the office of his uncle~ Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy, D-Mass. 
The younger Kennedy is the son of the late Sen. Robert F. Kennedy and a former assistant district attor­ney in New York City. 
His statement followed an an­nouncement Tuesday in Pennington County, S.D., that there is an "ongoing investigation involving Bobby KennedyJr." 
Rod Lefholz, state's attorney, said he could not characterize the probe as a drug investigation, but police secured a search warrant for " con­traband and controlled substances" in Kennedy's luggage after he became ill Sunday night on a flight to Rapid City, S.D. 

"The investigation could take days or weeks," Lefholz said. 
In his brief statement. Kennedy did not identify either the hospital he was entering or the specific drug involved. Aides in Sen. Kennedy's office declined to provide the in· formation. 
"I deeply regret the pain which this situation will bring to my family and to so many Americans who admire my parents and the Kennedy family," Kennedy said. "I am grateful for the support of my wife Emily, the other Emily, the other members of my family and my friends during this very difficult time.'' 
Meanwhile. Rapid City authorities said Wednesday the search of Ken· nedy's flight hag for "contraband and controlled substances" has been completed, hut result were not available. 
Detective Sgt. John Barley said police completed the search Tues­day night. He would not say if the contents of the hag were being tested. 
As of Wednesday, Kennedy had not been charged with a crime. 
15% Discount 

~ notincluding . 
·  sale ttems  
N.D.-S.M.C.  
FOX'S  JEWElERS SINCE 1917  Students  

DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 

niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 


Children's author dies 
MUNCIE, Ind. Children's author Dorothy Drumm Hamilton, who wrote .32 children's hooks including "Christmas for Holly" and "The Killdeer," died yesterday in Ball Memorial Hospital at age 77. 
Mrs. Hamilton had scheduled two additional .hooks for publication next year, but the manuscripts were not completed. 
Mrs. Hamilton's experience raising seven children and teaching the offspring of migrant farm workers blossomed into a writing career with the publication of her first hook in 1971 when she was 6.3. 
The worries and stesses of childhood. and how children deal with them, often became themes for her books. 
"1 think children are looking for someone or something to look up to," she said during a I978 inter­view. "There's a need for heroes." 
Her books were translated into at 
least  two  foreign  languages  and  
Braille.  
In  I982,  Mrs.  Hamilton  was  

honored by the Indiana Reading Council, and in 1979 she was awarded an honorary doctorate of letters from Ball State University. 
Services will he held at .3 p.m. Friday in Muncie Friends Church. 
Survivors include her husband, Harry D. Hamilton; daughters, Kathryn Julian, Carolyn Neessary, Lois Fitzpatrick and Frances Parkin­son; and sons, Dale, Stephen, and 
David. 


IOSTINO'S
•..,.• Welcome Football Fans & Local Patrons 
Step 
602 S. Walnut St. Southltncl 

Your Favorite Cocktail1, family Room1 

232·2494 
ond Prlvote EntrMCe. Banquet Room• 

Tolce Edc/1 St., 1o 
Available with optfQn to Create Your 

Som,W, tum Right 
Own Menu. 

on Walrwt 



.......-----------------------­
The Observer Thursday, September 15, 1983 -page 6 



Welcome Back, -Notre Dame 

Thursday, September 15, 1983 -page 7
Yiew~oint 
The moral injustice inherent in lawn-sprinkling 
There comes a time when a man cannot live with his conscience. '-"'hen the world around him spouts-off with inconsistencies, which sprinkle their effects into the minds ofall. 
Such was the deep message which inspired me as I walked the Notre Dame campus the 
·Keith Picher 
Weekend philosopher 
other night. It was a night like any other n!ght -bat~ flying around the Dome. bicyclists without headlights mowing down people on the sidewalks. and rapists hiding in the in­famous "Stqxtn Chemistry Niche." 
And a~ I walked to the Computing Center, unaware of how l~rovidcnce wa~ guiding me that night, 1\Vas haptized by the car-wash like sprinklers. Though t1rst upset at my seemingly horrendous luck, for my socks were now sog­gy and they caused my shoes to go "squish, !->quish. squish" as 1 ambled down the path, in time l came to understand the cryptic sign. 
Though a hit long winded, for I have yet to recover fully from the excitement of the event, I shall now proceed with the message I have received from on high. 
While millions of people in our world lack the proper water for drinking, washing their hair, and excreting, we at Notre Dame are content to flood our quads with oceans ofthe precious non-bodily fluid. Clearly the Univer­sity community is ignoring Christian prin­
ciples in allowing such abhorrent and murderous behavior to continue. 
And so I have devised a plan, though per­haps a hit controversial, which alumni. faculty, students, and even one day the Ad­ministration itself will thank me for suggest­ing. 
With all the influence our glorious school has mustered. perhaps some company would sell us a tew thousand miles of pipe at a dis· count. The numerous workers whom the Uni­
versity employs temporarily during the pre-graduation and pre-football weekend ru!>h, could work year round laying pipe~ from Notre Dame to various places which need water. India. the Atacama. and perhaps Saudi Arabia could take us up on the offer. 
\X'hik some technological problems might pop up (indeed. burying a pipe under the ocean b no easy task for the beginner) our keen minds will make those Arabians. who once pondered the idea of tugging icebergs from the Antarctic, look like fools. 
The pipe will be separated into three chan­nels. One will carry the excess drainage from our heavily-sprinkled lawns, and the soapy and slightly soiled water from our showers. While the water may smell and taste a hit foul, I hear it's better than most ofthe water babes in the Third World must imbibe. After all, any water tastes funny until you're used to it. 
The second channel will carry water which. though unsuitable for drinking, should be more than adequate for bathing. This will be 
recovered from the backlog at the local, and 

overburdened. sewage treatment plants which cannot purify water quickly enough to meet the demand. 
The tina! channel will convey what little rain these dry regions do receive to us, so we may use it tlrst and extend its overall useful­ness. This is a small sacritlce to pay for the great service our project will offer to these otherwise destitute people. 
And yet, you say I am a hypocrite or an ex­ploiter, to whieh I answer, am I any worse than you who worry about green grass and don't consider sending slightly crappy and squalid water to our brothers and sisters in need? 
Keith Picher, a senior philosophy and CAPP major from Winthrop, Maine, often in­cludes satirical comment in his weekly col­umn. 


Proper response to Korean air disaster 
The Soviet l Jnion downed a plane a couple of weeks ago and killed 269 people. Whether they were all innocent or not doesn't matter too much now; they are dead. For two weeks some students have pointed tlngers towards 
Mike McClory 
As it is 
Moscow and ~ccused them of various crimes, while other s tudents with their noses buried in hi hies have urged only the sinless to throw the t1r~t stone. This type of private debate is fun, but pointless. Several more important question~ need our consideration. 
What possible end c:ould the Soviets have seen in downing this plane? 
The goals the Soviets were hoping to ac­complish are not apparent. No plane should be ahle to gather vital military secrets at 40,000 feet just inside Soviet airspace. Even if 
this information could be gathered, shooting 
down a plane will not improve national security. No country, America included, is attempting to overthrow the Soviet govern­ment. Any thoughts along this line are absurd. They may, however. be natural thoughts for the military mind. Ifso, we witnessed paranoia in action. 
What is the proper response to this 
atroci~y? 

Many nations and people want to take ac­tion against the Soviets because of this crime. Suggestions include demands for money, for sanctions, or for an apology. None of these is actually worth seeking. To ask for a sum of money is simply to set an acceptable price on the downing of planes. What is it suggested the families do with this blood money-take a vacation? Politicians are really quite shallow. 
To impose economic and cultural sanctions upon the Soviets would also accomplish little. 
Those hurt by sanctions are the little people like us. They didn't order a plane shot down. Andropov will still eat steak while Russian citizens won't eat. Our arms aren't long enough to reach the real culprits. 
Asking for an apology is the most futile act of all. Those responsible aren't sorry that a plane was shot down. They would apologize during the day and laugh about it over shots of vodka at night. These people knew what they were doing. Nobody tails an airplane for two hours before killing its 269 passenger~ with­out knowing what they are doing. 
Besides outrage, tl1ere is .uo proper response except to hope that this was an is­olated incident and not representative of nor­mal Soviet action. Note that war was not even discussed; nuclear weapons make discussing war needless. 
Why does nationalism fascinate people? 
Anyone who gets too caught up in a discus­sion ofinternational politics needs a lesson in 
the basic facts of life. There are little people and there are governments. Governments are in control as long as they can con citizens into believing in the concept of nationalism. Is there anything sillier than a Soviet soldier tlghting an American soldier, a Soviet farmboy t1ghting an American farmboy, a Soviet stu­dent tlghting an American student? Ifyou feel somewhat like a pawn -good. If you don't, then wake up. We, as ordinary citizens, have no quarrels with Russian citizens. Govern­ments would like us to think that we do be­cause it suits their purposes, but we have none. Russians are like us. They are concerned with day to day living and confused about the meaning oflife. Survival without some form of government is not possible, but a system of 
nations is hopeless. 
The three answers left us from our probe are: governments are unpredictable; ordinary people are powerless pawns; and nationalism is simply a means of insuring the tlrst two answers. 


P. 0. BoxQ
Bad advice 
Dear Editor: 

So, Mr. Jurgen Brauer says it's unchristian for Americans to protest the Soviet destruc­tion of Flight 007 because, after all, America too has sometimes behaved hadly. Well, if he thinks this is such good advice, let him keep it! 
( 
1 ) His name, as well as the Germanicisms in his letter, indicate that he is not an American. So doesn't he violate his own prin­ciple in criticizing American leaders? Let him rather take the occasion to reflect on the shortcomings of past German (or Austrian) leaders. 

( 
2) And even if he's American, why is he so eager to expose for public condemnation the shortcomings of the protestors? Doesn't he have any sins ofhis own to reflect on? 


Obviously, the advise is silly (and"a misin­terpretation of the Gospel). He's surely right that malicious joy at the Soviet loss ofpre~tige is a sin. But what evidence i~ there that the sign-makers committed that ~in? And if Mr. Brauer really means what he ~ays, why was he silent about recent protests against human rights violations in Chile? Any human rights violations should give rise to outrage and protest. Though we must not hate the Soviets (not even the ones directly involved), neither should their action (and their defense ofit) be allowed to pass without protest. I invite Mr. Brauer to explain why his letter of protest was justified if the sign of protest was not. If he cannot do so, he ought to apologize for destroying the sign. 
Kenneth Kemp 
Department Managers 

=====Ibe QbserYei==== Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic 
/Jox Q, NPtre /Jame, IN 46556  ( .1 /')) .lj'J· 5303  Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare  
The Ohser1•er i~ the independent new~paper publhhed hv the studenb of the Uni­ Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn  Controller . ...................... Alex Szilva~  
ver~lly of Notre Dame du l.ac anti Saint Mar(~ College It doe~ not nece~~arih· reflect  News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide  Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen  
the poliues of the admini~tration  of either institution. The new~  is reported as at­ News Edi!Or . ................. (\.1ark Worscheh  Composition Manager . ........ Suzaum: i.a Croix  
curatd1' am! a~  ohjectivelv a~  pos~iblt·  l"nsigned editorials represent the opinon of a  Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski  Circulation Manager . ............. Mark Miotto  
rna,onty ofthe Editorial Board. Commentario. kHers. and the Imide Column present  Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamil toll  System Manager  ............... Kevin \Xilliam'  
the news oftheir authors ( :olumn ~pace is available to all members ofthe communitv. and the free exprt·ssion ofvarying opiniom on campu~. 1hrough let!ers. i~ encouraged.  Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower .\jJOrts Editor ... ...... \lichael Sullivan  

Founded November 3, 1966 
l__ 


The Observer 
4·,~"~
Jl A 

.~ [HJ@)@(Ql@)[f (C@~~@
... 


SAI~ARYS COl 


'Dedication Week' continues tomorrow with terrace ceremony, Irish Pub Night 
By HELEN LUCAITIS Apicnic on the dining hall green will be af­The Indianapolis Hallet Theatre per­Str~ff Reporter ter the ceremony. formed in O'Laughlin Auditorium last night. 
..,.,. 
. ( ;l
--.... -I 'l And "Midnight Madness Sale" in the
I "There has been a lot ofstudent participa­
'I Special activities all this week at Saint Shaheen Bookstore and an open house with
tion in the activities that have been going on
Mary's have been celebrating "Dedication films and game tournaments are on the
all week, Hoctor said. "The Haggar Center is
-n11 Week" for the new Haggar College Center. agenda for today, along with a black-tie 
always very crowded, especially the snack
Adedication ceremony, set for tomorrow dedication dinner tonight for those who
1 ·l bar area. Many faculty members have also 
at :L~O p.m. on the center's terrace, will donated to the new center in Stapleton
1 If been using the center. The whole com­
highlight the week's activities. Lounge.
1 11 munity will benefit from it." 
j And "Irish Pub Night," featuringjim Coors
l 
A Mass ofThanksgiving will be held in the

and friends, will wrap up the dedication Dedication Week began Saturday with a 
I..eMans' Chapel at 12:20 tomorrow after­'! week tomorrow night at H on the center's "Sound Showcase." Three bands performed noon. 

terrace. throughout the afternoon outside the new Elaine Hoctor, student body president, center. "The building is for the usc ofthe entire will open the ceremony, and Sister Mary community," said Sister Elizabeth Smoyer, Jane Honan, chairwomen of the Board of director ofSaint Mary's campus ministry.
This week's activities included a Mass and art exhibit on Sunday, coffee hour and
Regents, will given the opening prayer. Saint "And the entire community is involved with dedication concert on Monday, and a series
Mary's President john Duggan will give the the dedication. We thinkthat we have some­address. thing very lovely and prayerful."
ofseminars on Tuesday. 


Center has everything a student would want. • • 
By THERESA GUARINO 
StaffReporter 
It's taken two years and $1.4 m ill ion, hut no one is complaining. 
The new llaggar College Center -once the Alumnae Centennial Lihrary -is just what Saint \1ary's students and faculty have wanted for a long time. 
llle new college center provides much net:ded int<mnal social space.lt includes the Shaheen Bookstor eon the ground floor. And ofllces, previously located all over campus, art· now centen·d in the Haggar Center. 
Stutknt (iovernment, Student Activities, I st Source Travel, The OfJsen,er and theH/ue Wantle yearbook have relocated there, in addition to a Ist Source Bank branch oftlce. 
Students and staff involved in student or­ganizations hope that the new accessibility ofthe offices will encourage more participa­tion. 
"I would hope that there would be more involvement, simply because students can see these people as active," said Senior Class President Kathleen Murphy. "Before, they were all tucked away in the basement of Regina and no one knew they were there. I can see improvement in participation now simply because we're more visible." 
The snack bar has expanded its line in the center. New options include Bun Appetite (a grill line ), a Deli, the Corner Market (cash and carry), and the Wild Pizza. 
"The Snack Bar is a lot nicer since its more centralized," said senior Kate Livingston. "They're still in an organization process, but 

Saint Mary's seniors Eva Barrasso (1.) and Patricia Noonan quench their thirst in the new snack bar while ta.<ing time out to catch up on the day's events. They are two ofthe many students who frequent the already popular snack bar on the second floor ofthe Haggar Center. 
once they get through it, things will be great 
-especially weeknights -after the 
library." 

The Haggar Center also includes meeting, recital and movie rooms, in addition to a hospitality lounge. Also, a large dance area enables groups to have more dances on campus including dances like the "Chance to Dance" at Notre Dame. 
Sophomores Lisa Wilson and Ann Murphy agree that the social space was needed. "It's a nice diversity as compared to what we used before," Murphy said. "Now we have a place to entertain." 
The Berezny Game Room features video games, pool tables and ping pong tables. A terrace added to the rear ofthe building can be used to study or socialize in warm weather. 
• • .but its effect on s~ 
By KEVIN PEARTREE 
News Staff 
The lack ofadequate social and study space had been sending Saint Mary's stu­dents across the road to Notre Dame. 
The Haggar College Center is meant as an answer to that problem. 
But just how the multi-purpose building will change the social lives ofSaint Mary's students is a question as yet without an answer. 
Student Body President Elaine Hoctor thinks the center may "bring more ofthe Notre Dame community over to Saint Mary's." 
Yet other students don't think the center will greatly alter their social activities. 
"I really enjoy the change ofatmosphere, especially since we had nowhere to go before," said junior Colleen King. "There's a lot more interaction between the professors and students here." 
Notre Dame senior Nick Kuhn agreed. "This is a great place to go for lunch. I was really impressed with the cafeteria" 
Students seem enthusiastic about the new center, especially those who know what the campus was like without it. "The bookstore and the atmosphere in the snack bar is l 00 percent improved," said sophomore Mala W akin. "The deli is a good idea hut it need-; to be bigger." 
The Haggar Center will be officially ded· icated in a ceremony tomorrow, ending a week designated as "Dedication Week" at Saint Mary's. 
"It's a great place to go," said sen leen Noonan, "hut I don't think it'sr be a weekend hangout." 
freshman Michelle McNamara "It's a good place to go to he·tw·t't'n she said, but the center won't here at nighttime." 
Kathleen Nicholson said the ter won't "keep people from going Notre Dame for their social life." 
Aside from special social and events to be held at the center, Five Hall Dance on Sept. 24, some think that Notre Dame and South remain the primary sources of tivities. 
A 

'I 
·1. Thursday, September 15, 1983-page 9
1-----------------wi,---------------------­
;d·~ 

House. 
Photos by Paul Cifarelli Until the first center was constructed in 1962, Saint Mary's had no centralized meeting place or recreational area. Today, Saint Mary's has not 


C social life is unknown 
One seniorsaid Saint Mary's students have long been geared to believe that any social life will be found beyond their own campus. 
That's why it may be a matter oftime before more Saint Mary's students think they can stay on campusfor a greater part oftheir social time. 
But for now, some students said, it would be helpful to schedule more events similar to the Five Hall Dance, in order to attract stu­dents from Notre Dame. A "21 Club" on the third floor ofthe center is one proposal. 
Opening the new college center also raises security questions. Because the snack bar and game room are open until midnight during the week and 2 
a.m. on weekends, campus security has had 
to make some minor adjustments. A college center night manager will remain in the building every night until closing. In addi­tion, security personnel in the tunnels from 
Haggar represents 21 yrs. of progress 
ByANNE MONASTYRSKI 
Saint 'llary's Editor 
Nearly 21 years ago -before many oftoday's seniors at Saint Mary's were born -Sister Maria Renata, then president of Saint Mary's, announced the opening of the College Social Center as "a facility which we all, as a family, can use in proper respect." 
It was the first center designated specifically as social space for students and faculty, and was located under the foyer ofO'Laughlin Auditorium. After excavating the basement of O'Laughlin, a snack counter, furniture and other decor were put in at a cost of S20,000. 
The center boasted central air-conditioning, a recreation room, a TV lounge, snack bar and vending machines, and an art-display section that ex­hibited paintings ofseveral art students. 
A sunken patio off the south side of O'Laughlin was added for outdoor recreation. The art department and Moreau Gallery now occupy the space of the old center. 
Saint Mary's has progressed during the pa'it 20 years. 
The new Haggar College Center can claim more than central air­conditioning. 
The first center was designed to provide a "daily atmosphere for Saint Mary's students to relax and entertain their guests," and wa'i "open to the public (meaning Notre Dame men) only by individual invitation," according to an issue ofThe Crux, the former Saint Mary's newspaper. 
Before the College Social Center, social space was scatterred throughout the campus. Angela Hall, built in 1892, was the first recreational facility on campus, but it also contained a convocation center and other social facilities as well. 
Angela Athletic Facility now serves as the campus' recreational facility. 
When Holy Cross Hall was completed in 1903, the Pebble Lounge was used for student recreation and as a meeting area. The Pebble is located in the basement of Holy Cross. 
LeMans Hall has provided space for many social events in the history of Saint Mary's. Several rooms and wings were used by students as dance halls, recreational rooms and meeting rooms. The first floor business office wing was the social hall in 1925. 
Life before SAGA's snack bar meant The Oriole, located at the east end of LeMan's basement. It was the student snack bar until1966, when the dining hall was completed. 
Stapleton Lounge in LeMan's always has been a place for clubs to meet, and for receptions, but not for general use by students. Dances were held in Stapleton years ago, but the expense of moving the rugs for the dance floor proved too costly to continue the events. 
The basement lounge of LeMans, The Rectangle, was used for various events and is still a recreational and study lounge for residents. 
Regina Hall's spacious lounges in the north and south wings and the base­ment lounges directly underneath them have been the center of many ac­tivities in the past, and is still used today. 
Workshops and other small groups still meet in the Pine Grove Club 
just a social center, but a veritable college center, with a central location providing all students (no individual invitations required), faculty, ad­ministration and guests with meeting rooms, offices, a ballroom, snackbar, rec room and bookstore -all in one. 
The center is named in honor of Haggar Foundation of Dallas which donated 5500,000 toward the 51.42 million project. Construction began in january 1982. 
The Haggar College Center marks 21 years ofprogress-from a makeshift and temporary social center to a permanent college center. 

LeMans Hall to the Cushwa-Leighton Library and college center will have longer hours to coincide with the center's hours, according to Robert Foldesi, director ofpersonnel. 
Foldesi added that "as far as basic patrols are concerned, we have not added any addi­tional patrols on campus." 
But most students using the center this week didn't seem concerned about security. They're just glad the center's open. 
As Cathleen Noonan said, "It's a good step in the right direction." 
The way it was 

The foyer ofO'Laughlin Auditorium was the site ofthe College Social Center, which opened 
for Saint Mary's students in 1962 The center was not available for parties or class dances. 
Marti Jones browses through the new tradebook shelfin the Shaheen Bookstore. Tradebooks are a new addition to the bookstore which to the new addition ofthe College Center from the basement LeMans Hall. 
Thursday, September 15, 1983-page 10
The Observer 

CORKTOWNE LIQUORS, INC: 

1841 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
STATE ROAD 23 
TIN 

BEER :Old Style 6.7 6 
24 cans 
6.95 
·24 cans 
~•~• Budweiser; 7.49 MICHELOB 8.59 
24cans 
:.t 
~~ 
KEGS ~-. GOEBELS 26 99 
.................. 1 PLUS DEPOSIT • 
Old Style 
~ Keg 



$27" 
plu• d•po•lt 
udweiser 
Y4 barrel 
22 00 
plu• depo•lt • 



QUART BEER 
BUD LIGHT 
8.49 case 12 
~BUDWEISER 
8.90 case 


OLD MILWAUKEE 
~~  6.90 case  
~  MILLER  
~­ .  9.00 case  




LIQUOR SPECIALS 
Seagram's A great value on 
V.O. _____ u5t S14" KESSLERS ___ 15o mt s4" 
Wolfschmidt Stock up on 
VODKA. _____ 1.751 sa" BLACK VELVfl .1.75 sCJ C[4 
Kamchatka Clan McGregor 
VODKA ______ 1.751$799 SCOTCH _______ s1 099 
Ushers Heaven Hill 
SCOTCH_ ___ s1099 GIN---.. -____u5 $7" 
Black Label O.J. and Cream 
$3
99

ACK DANIELS_ 75o mt 5699 TANGO. ________ 
Great in mix or straight 
Tangueray SOUTHERN GIN--------750 mt $8" COMFORT___ 750 ml SS" 
Castillo 

$ Your favorite 
RUM-------750 ml 439 KAHLUA _____ 15o mt $8" 
Fighting Irish Hiram Walker 
BOURBON_ ____ ltr. $669 SCHNAPPS ___ 75o ml s469 
500 ML SPECIALS Jack Daniels. __________ !5" Southern Comfort. _________ !4~ Kesslers. _____________ '3" DeKuypenn Apple Schnapps ___'2" Jim Beam _____________ _f3•' Canadian Clull •••••••••••• ..,'4" 
'3
39
Hiram Walker Schnapps. __ Hiram Walk• ftavarld Brandy'~-~"Macintosh ScotciL _____ .'35' J&BScotdL__ •__________•6•• 
STORE HOURS: 
WEEKEtJDS 9-10 
FRI. & SAT. 9-11 





277-6805 
The Bindery 
Thursday, September 15, 1983 -page 11 
Built on good Foundations 
by Joe Musumeci 
Foundation's Edge by Isaac Asimov New York, Doubleday, 1983 $12.95 366 pages 
0 
ver the past year or so, there has been a rash ofse­quels, some successful, some not so successful. The field ofscience fiction/fantasy literature has been no exception. Last semester, The Observer published reviews of the sequels to Arthur C. Clarke's2001: a Space Oddyssey and Frank Herbert's famous "Dune" trilogy. There have been recent publications of un­finished works byJ.R.R. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis. 
Now Isaac Asim<>V has created a sequel for his "Foundation" trilogy, and in doing so, has surpassed himself as a world renowned innovator ofthe human imagination. Not long ago, the original trilogy, consist­ing ofFoundation, Foundation and Empire and SecondFoundation, was awarded a special Hugo award as the "Best All-time Science Fiction Series." It's not easy to add onto an accomplishment ofsuch distinc­tion, but Asimov has created a companion piece, Foundation's Edge, that not only proceeds from but 
magnifies the whole. 
The series was set in the same "Empire" that oc­cupied so many ofthe author's other works (Pebble in the Sky, The NakedSun). But the Empire had crumbled and the human race was destined to at least ten mil­lenium ofsavagery on its way to a new structure. Hari Seldon, a "psychohistorian" ofsuperlative talents, devises a path upon which the galaxy can travel to civilization in a mere thousand years, and sets up two foundations at the opposite ends ofthe galaxy to assure that the human race proceeds along that path. The first three books ofthe onetime trilogy dealt for the most part with the growth of the First Foundation, a society based solely in the physical sciences, and spanned a period ofover three hundred years. At the openingof Foundation's Edge, the Seldon Plan has proceeded bumpily along its course and neared the halfway mark 
offive hundred years. The First Foundation has since 
discovered and to the best ofits knowledge destroyed 
the Second, a society developing almost exclusively in 
the realm of mental technology. With only halfa mil­
lenium to go and The Plan sti II on track, the leaders feel 
confident that the Second Empire may be attained by 
the present system ofgalactic expansion ... 
Until one young senator points out that things are 
going a little too well. 

And the search for the Second Foundation begins 
again. 

The Second Foundation, which, in fact, never was 
destroyed, is also convinced that the going has been a 
little too easy. 

The book follows the two factions as they traverse 
the galaxy searching for the force that seems to be 
guiding events with a more than human adherence to 
the Plan. Their trek leads to a quest for the long-lost 
roots of humanity on a planet called Earth and a planet 
sometimes confused with it called Gaia -a planet that 
seems to be outside the realm of natural existence. 
They are at last led to a confrontation with forces that 
neither Foundation could have foreseen. 
While the book is an admirable creation ofits own 
right and can be read as a separate work, when read as a 
sequel to the trilogy, or rather as a tardy completion, it 
serves not onlyas pleasurable readingbut as an enlarge­
ment on each ofthe other three. Little was told ofthe Second Foundation in the first books; it took on the air · ofa mystical society ofunknown powers. InEdge, the Second Foundation tis examined as an equal quantity 
with the First. As a result, the entire novel concentrates 
less on the technological wonders ofAsimov's galaxy 
and settles at times into a comforting psychological 
vein which serves to give the characters a much less 
"sci-fi" nature. 

The books builds well, while retaining the somewhat 
choppy vignette framework which characterized the 
previous "Foundation" works. Watching the rival 
figures in the plot deal with parallel situations gives a 
real taste ofthe workings ofAsimov's imagination, and 
at the same time perhaps leads the reader to conclu­
sions or guesses about the outcome of the epic far 
before the protagonists. 

The finish, ifnot a shocker, is sufficiently suspenseful 
to give the reader a last minute kick. The last line tells 
the story:" ...The End (for now) ..." 

A bizarre version of the universe 
sional, serving mainly as vehicles for Adams' explanations and wild flights
by Elizabeth DeSchryver 
ofimagination. Douglas Adams lets his imagina­tion run unchecked by the demands Life. the Universe and Everything ofreason, yet rationality is his main tool in creating his bizzarre galaxy.
by Douglas Adams 
All ofhis crazyconcepts are logicallyNew York, Harmony Books, 1982 explained by the characters, who carry them to a laughable although
$9.95 
logical extreme. For example, the
227 pages 
principle oflearning how to fly: 
1
··> those ofyou who have read i.•.::>Uglas Adams' previous books, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and The Restaurant at the End ofthe Universe, his third book, Life, the Universe, and Everything will not be a letdown. If anything, this work contains a bit more ofa plot than the others. And for those of you who haven't read any ofAdam's books,Life, the Universe, andEvery­thing, like all ofAdams' books, should be pretty bizarre reading. 
lnlife, the Universe, and Every­thing, Arthur Dent, a befuddled twentieth century earthman, is saved from being perpetually marooned on prehistoric earth by his Betelgeuse friend, Ford Prefect, and by the timely intervention ofa Chesterfield sofa which transports them to England where they materialize on the pitch of Lord's cricket ground which has just been invaded by miniature white robots. From there they take offwith Slar­tibartfast in a ship powered by Bistromathics, a field ofscience based on the concept that numbers never behave the same way in a res­taurant as they do in other parts of the universe. Slartibartfast then en­lists them in the struggle to save the universe from the people of Krikkit, at present trapped in a slo-time en­velope but whose white robots are 
even now trying to assemble a key that will free them ... 
This is definitely not a book to be . read for its subtle character develop­ment. In fact, there is none. None was ever intended. Arthur Dent is an extremely obtuse and rather mourn­ful character who nonetheless manages to do the right thing at the right time (although he rarely does anything at all). Most ofthe time he 
is the object ofaction. The other characters are equally one dimen-throw yourselfat the ground and 

miss. Or to render something in­
visible: envelop it in Somebody 
Else's Problem Field. Makes sense, 
doesn't it? 
Adams does not limit himself to 
his plot, either. He flies off on tan­
gents as the whim suits him, clarify­
ing minor points that are not 
importantfor anyone in understand­
ing the story, or bringing up com­
plex bits that have nothing to do 
with what is going on. But he has a 
lot offun on the way. Adams reveals 
the true sadistic nature ofthe game 
ofcricket, the reasons behind the 
Campaign for Real Time. The plot 
does eventually come to a conclu­
sion, but not necessarily a logical 
one, ofcourse. 
Life, the Universe, andEverything 
does have its medicore side, 
however. The Abbott and Costello 
comedy routines that Prefect and 
Dent get into drag at times; Dent's 
denseness gets dull after a while. Al­
though this book can read indepen­.dently ofhis other two without 
much difficulty, you can miss out on 
little side jokes. Adams occassionally 
seems to be laughing at himself, 
which makes the humor seem too contrived in places. 
Nonetheless.Life, the Universe andEverything is an extremely enjoyable book, zany twists and well worth reading. 


A new kind of sci-fi 
by Elizabeth DeSchryver 
Special Deliverance by Clifford D. Simak New York, Ballentine Books, 1982 $2.75 217 pages 
T
ake a young English professor, add one British Brigadier, one paranoid parson, a genteel tea-making robot, an Athenian poetess and an intuitive engineer. Place on a pastoral planet with one giant uncommunicative cube, an ancient city, a singing tower, and a wall ofChaos. Stir gently, adding only an occassional pinch ofex­planations, and you'll have the basic recipe for Clifford D. Simak's book, Special Deliverance. 
Professor Edward Lansing is introduced to his odd travelling com­panions and a seemingly pointless chain ofobjects through a series ofslot machines which, among other things, fund the U.S. Welfare Department. His fellow travellers, all ofwhom come from parallel earths, are as mystified as he, and on the advice ofa local innkeeper set out to investigate the bizarre remains ofa defunct civilization, hoping to find a way back to their own worlds. This world's rem­nants, however, are not without their hazards; one by one, Lansing's companions die or disappear. They are not alone in this fate -Lan­sing and his fellow survivors eventually meet up with other groups trying to discover a way out orsimply attempting to survive-all of them as clueless to what is going on as Lansing. Deciding to retrace his steps and try to find his missing friends, Lansing discovers the solution to the maze-like puzzle and the reason for his being brought to this world. 
Clifford Simak has been called "the pastoralist ofscience fiction." This book adds justification to the title, the story taking place on a quiet world ofwell cared for puzzles, where the emptiness and lack ofaction create a sad restfulness. This story has no sudden noises, surprise attacks, or most ofthe other ingredients necessary ft orcliff­hanging suspense. There is no raging frustation, paralyzing fear, or high elation. Yet the story does keep a reader's interest; although I could put the book down, I found myselflookingforward to picking it back up again. 
One reason for this lies in the likeable and interesting characters. In many ways Simak's characters seem one-dimentional, but they hint at complexities. They have aggravating idiosyncracies, yet the reader can care about them. Another element ofthis story's attrac­tion lies in its limited perspective; the story is told totally through the mind ofthe main character, making gaps in knowledge seem reasonable rather than contrived. 
These gaps in knowledge and the lack ofexplanation for events in the story also enhance the book's appeal, for they create a feeling that anything can happen, that in spite of the external normalcy and quiet atmosphere this world is entirely unpredictable. Asense of helplessness, ofan inability to control one's surroundings, creates a vague uneasiness. Even at the end, many events are left unexplained. 
In spite ofits strengths, however, the work has small failings. Simak's attempt to create a romantic interest between two ofthe characters, while unobtrusive, strikes one as awkward. The idea seemed natural, but the way it was introduced seemed contrived. Also, while Simak touches upon several interesting scientific con­cepts and moral issues, he never really goes anywhere with them. While it is to Simak's credit that he does not shove them down the reader's throats, I was left with the feeling that quite a few things were glossed over. The ending seemed anti-climatic; my first reac­tion was why didn't they think ofthat in the first place? It seemed too simple. 
Despite its shortcomings, Special Deliverance is enjoyable, al­though it does not promote wild e11thusiasm. The book is well writ­ten, well paced, and not over long. There is really no reason not to recommend it. Ifyou run across it, you might want to take a look. 
I 

Thursday, September 15, 1983 -page 12


Sports Briefs 
Friday 
soccer

Notre Dame's Rugby Clubopenned its season Fuzzy Zoellerrode his scoring streak to a 9-under-par 63 last Saturday at Purdue with three victories. The A-Side won 24-4. and a one-stoke lead yesterday after the first round of the new Las 
vs. Loyola 

).R. Reid and Round Town Madden had two tries apiece while Steve Vegas Pro-Celebrity Classic, billed as the world's richest golftourna­
7:30p.m.

Schneider was 4 for 4 on conversions. The B-Side shutout the Boiler­ment. The official purse totals $700,000 with S135,000 going to the makers 12-0. Vince Foley and Gary Flannagan each had a try, and winner. -AP 
Cartier Field 

Tom Reidy was 2 for 2 on conversions. The C-Side won 6-0 with Tim Branigan scoring a try, and Bill Weiler making the conversion. The Rughy season continues this Saturday at 10 a.m. against Miami of 
tennis 

Ohio on the field behind Stepan Center. -The Observer 
vs. Butler 3:30p.m. Courtney Courts 
The ND-SMC Equestrian Club wilt hold a 
Former football star;oe Namath was arraigned yester­meeting tonight at' p.m. in room 2D of LaFortune. All interested day on a drunken-driving charge and pleaded innocent through an 
field hockey

faculty and students should artend the meeting or call AI Kane at attorney, but Namath did not appear in person. Namath was stoppedlH:\-6Hl9 for more information. -The Obsen•er 
vs. Adrian

by the California Highway Patrol about 10:45 p.m. on August lO as 
he drove along La Ciencga Boulevard in West Hollywood. -_,.tp 
behind the ACC 
The Observer LaFortune ofice accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per
Classifieds seven characters, per day. 
NOTICES 

Typ1ng, ALL KINDS 277·8534 aner 5 30 M·F. All day wknds 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
ND SMC WOMEN DISCOVER A MORE BEAUTIFUL YOU' LEARN ABOUT A NEW SKIN CARE PRODUCT. FOR A FREE FACIAL CALL 277-5168 AFTER 5 PM. 
THE OBSERVER OFFICE AT SAINT MARY'S IS NOW OPEN MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY FROM 12:30 TO 3. THIRD FLOOR HAGGAR CENTER, 2114-53115. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST-ND nng w1th 1n111als P R.M Dark purple stone se11n gold. Can Paul at 239· 5313. or at 277·4851. $40 reward, no questions asked. 
MISSING YOUR MANNERS? Walch The Observer/ 
REWARD Lost NDR1ng '64 .. Biue stone· Lost while rnov1ng 1nto Dillon. sttll '" nng box. KEN 1601 
LOST 6 KEYS ON A KNIFE KEYCHAIN CALL MIKE AT 6677 
lost, s1lver watch last week Watch has engrav1ng on the back. If found call Colin 6604. REWARD. 
TO THE PERSON WHO ACCIDENTAL· L Y ··BORROWED" MY MARKETING BOOK FROM THE SOUTH DINING HALL YESTERDAY AT LUNCH OR ANYONE WHO KNOWS OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. PLEASE CALL MARTHA 2769 OR RETURN IT TO LOST AND FOUND. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. PLEASE. 
LOST-.. KEY RING WITH 3 KEYS. LOST BEtiiND STEPAN ON WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 7. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 1421 AS SOON AS POS· SIBLE I 
LOST Keys on digital watch cha1n. If tound. call She1la al 284·5433. Lost 1n area of Flanner,Grace n1ghl of Sat.. Sept. 3. 
FOR RENT 

.FOR RENT COMPLETELY FUR· NISHED APARTMENT 1 BEDROOM. LIVING ROOM.BATHROOM.KITCHEN 2 BIG CLOSETS CALL JOE LACOPO 731 DIAMOND AVE. 233·2203 
NEEDED ONE FEMALE ROOMMATE WITH EXCELLENT STEREO TO SHARE TOWNHOUSE. CALL 272·5139 
NEED 1 OR 2 HOUSEMATES. CHEAP RENT. GOOD FOOD & DRINK. FAIRLY OPEN MINDED MATES. 6 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 1/2 BLOCK FROM BARS CALL MURPH 287·9252 
TICKETS 

TICKETS NEEDED FOR USC·MUST HAVE .. ·CALL CHRIS AT 234·7279 
TICKETS WANTED FOR Southern CAL. TOP dollar pa1d call. 267-6277 HOWIE 
Need 10 G.A.'s to the U.S.C. game. W1ll pay any amount lor tickets. They need not be together. Please call Dan a11779. 
FOR SALE 4 MSU hckels. Best offer. 284·4391. Anyl1me 
r4EED GA TIXS FOR ALL HOME GAMES.PETE 255-9196 
Need 4 GA's lor MICH STATE GAME. Call Kra1g at t 606 
NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GA·s OR 1 GA AND 1 STUDENT TICKET. CALL KATHY AT 2966. 
NEED DESPERATELY 1 MSU TICKET. WILL PAY. CALL KATHY 7793 
I HAVE 4 MSU AND 2 PITT TICKETS, BUT I NEED USC INSTEAD. LErS TALK. CALL JERRY AT x1783 AFTER 
8. 
Need 4 MSU GAs. Pat 1238 
HELPI I despertely need a GA lor M1ch. St. W111 pay b1g SS$11 Call264·5119. 
FOR SALE 6 MSU IIX! Call Dave at 291· 2853 aner 5pm or Ch1p at284·5263. 
Need 3 MSU !IX. Fam1ly com1ng from NJ. If you can help please call Deb at 3468. 
Desperate for 1 MSU stud. t1ck. or GA. Money no obrect. Call John at 1 003. 
MICHIGAN STATE GA t1ckels needed!lll Call Andy at 3676. 
I NEED 2 USC TIX. W/TRADE 2 MSU GA'S FOR 2 USC TIX. CALL 284·5532. 
Need 3·6 MSU vs ND lb tickets. Call 616)699·7272 or (day) KORBULY/ GRAF off1ce 233·2119 
I need 10 M.S.U. 11ckels Pnce no object! Call Doug a1288·9059 
HELP !II 

This Is my parents hrst trip out of West VIr· ginia and they want 10 see what a real football game Is like. Help me out wdh a MICHIGAN STATE GA Cal/ Scotty at 1219. 
I NEED 3 MICH. ST. GA's. WILL PAY WELL CALL RANDY AT 6700. 
I NEED. LUST, DESIRE 2·3 USC TIX TERRY 8486 
NEEDED 2·10 tiCkets lor M1ch Sl game Any pnce acceptable Call Bruce at 6760 Can deal lor Colorado,M1am1, or Army t1ckels 
NEED MICH ST. GA'S CALL JIM 277­2183 
Please Trade I offer 2 M1ch1gan Stale GA sand $50 lor 2 USC GA sCall Steph 2172 
NEED 4 MSU G.A.'s. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! CALL KEVIN at 8836 
WILL PAY BIG SS FOR 1 MSU TICKET. CALL DANNY 277·5263. 
Relal1ves com1ng to see llrsl N.D. game. I need 3 M.S.U.t1ckels. Call John at3187 
Desperately need Penn Slate game l1ck· ets. Call Bnan at8795. 
Need 3 stud. 1 GA MSU IIX. Please call Joe 6257 
HELPI NEED 2 GA TIXS FOR MICH STATE. CALL MIKE AT 1475. 
Need 1, 2 or 3 GA tlx for Mich. St. game and all home games. Please call Helen, SMC 5501. 
HELP!Ill Need 3 GA's for the MSU ga,el Call Laura a1264-4402 
Th1a ad has nolh1ng to do w1lh Michigan Stata ttx. but s1nce I'm on the subject of 
IIX. I need two GA'o for USC. You see. my lnends have never seen the Trojan HorM. You can be part of thiS edifymg ex· penance by selling 'Tie lhe bx. If you can help. please call Anne al 284·4352. Reme'T!ber. only you can 'Tlake rt happen. 
NEED USC TIX WILL TRADE 2 MSU GA OR PAY BIG$ CALL ROB 1193 
NEED 2 T USC GAS CALL BRIAN 6981 
HELP! NEED USC TIX STUDENT OR 
G.A. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277·4309 
NEED MANY MSU GA·s. $$$$$$ CALL 1154 
Desperately need 2 MSU GA's. Call M1ke x870B/6709 
HELP Ill NEED 1·4 MSU STUDENT (OR GA) TIX. $$. PLEASE. PLEASE CALL 6425. 
NEED USC TIX PLEASE CALL 8564. 
DESPERATELV NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA TIX FOR MICH ST. CALL CHRIS OR DON AT 1657. 
WARNING! Selling your two extra MIChl· 
gan State tickets WILL be a MONEY 
MAKING EXPERIENCE!! CALL PAT 
6762 '"' dela1ls 

DESPERATELY NEED ONE MSU GA TICKETI WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR! CALL BILL AT 1629. 
4 sale 1 G.A. x3636 

TWO MICHIGAN STATE G.A.'s NEEDED FOR MY PARENTS WHO ARE MAKING THEIR FIRST TRIP TO NOTRE DAME. CALL 3211 OR 3209 FOR $$$$$$$$$. 
'-4~iiirix.NE.Eoiio.•ciiLL·;·;;;;;;:··--.......... 
AVAILABLE 2 MICHIGAN ST. GA-~iii WILL TRADE FOR 2 NAVY GAs. CALL ERIC AT 8891. 
I NEED 2 MICH. ST. TICS. GA OR STUD. CALL RUSS 1627$$ 
HELPIMY FRIENDS WANT TO DRINK INN. D. STADIUM. CALL STEVE AT 277· 1308 AFTER 2 P.M. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. 
TRADE-HAVE 2 MSU 'rici<s·, ..W.AN.T 2 USCOR2A.F. TICKS CALL 1433 
NEED Msu TICKETs. Pu:iii.sE ciiLL TRACY 4347. 
............................................ 
MSU TICKET NEEDED. STLiDE.NT..CiR GA FOR LITTLE BROTHER. CALL LAR· RY 234·9114. 
I NEED 2 MiC'H:'ST'ATE'S'TUDENT'TiC'K~ ETS. CALL PAUL 6301 or 3697 
NEED 2 STU. OR 2 GA TIX FOR MSU GAME. CALL JOHN 6301. 
Doesn't anyone out there care? We're talking about one Mrlously demented lndlvlduafl This person Ia a fan of (shhhfl) ALABAMA. but Alabama fane pay big bucks to -NDI Wa only need four tlekata-le that too much lo ask for thlo cause? Call Mare or Greg al 8284. 
WILL TRADE 2 MSU TICKETS FOR USC TICKETS. CALL BOB AT 3526. 
Need MSU stu & GA's. Call1695. 
I need 1 student ticket lor MSU. Please call Ann at 1342. late mght1s best. 
A hornbly burnt child needs 2 G.A.'s and 1 studen111ckel to the M.S.U. ga'Tle. Please call 269·5379 '' you want to make a hor· nbly delor'Tled child very happy. Ask lor Shck. 
I NEED 1 GAFORM.S.U. WILLPAYTOP DOLLAR! CALL MIKE 1770. 
Need MSU or USC Tix call Chas. 1586 
STILL NEED 2 TO 4 MSU GA'S;FOR FAMILY;CALL PAT AT 1185 
I have 2 MSU GA's. I would hke to lrede lor any other ho'Tle game. Call Maureen al 4835. 
NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO MICHIGAN STATE GAME. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL 239-5313 OR 272·1723 ASK FOR JANE HEALEY 
Young miss visiting from West VIrginia Just gol her first pair of shoes. Now all she needs to make her life complete Is a ticket (student) lo lhe MICHIGAN STATE game. Call Kirk at 8765. 
Willlrade lor 2 GA's or student fiX to M1ch1­gan Stale. Offenng cash and/or keys loa 76 P1nto (JUSt k1dd1ng). Call KEN al8767. 
I Have 2 MSU GAs and w1lhng to trade t1x and/or $$ tor 2 USC GAs 1l1nleresled or just bored 1n general · MIKE 8200! 
I NEED SO. CAROLINA TIX. CALL MAUREEN AT 8024 
NAVY GA' S needed call ED at11 06 
HELP! I! I NEED 2 STUD OR GA TIX FOR THE MSU GAME. PLEASE CALL -­JULIE AT 4434!1 
NEED TWO (2) tiX, student or GA. tor MSU 8906 
I Need P1t1 GAs;wllllrade stu. season lick Call Paul233 4381 
NEEDED· 6 MSU GA TICKETS (PREFER PAIRS OR BETTER). PAYING BETTER THAN TOP DOLLAR. CALL MIKE ANTONY AT 291-4996 EXT 6326. 
HAVE 2M S.U. GA'sl NEED A1r Force GA'sl TRADE? CALL DAVE 6238. 
NEED 2 GA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICH. ST. KATHLEEN264·5515 
NEED 1 MSU GA TICKET Call Sch'Tlitly at1667 or 1773 
TRADE -I need MSU G/A or student. W1ll g1ve you Navy 11ckel. Call Paul at239· 5313 or a1277·4651 -Call anyi1'T1e. day orn1ghl. 
HELPI NEED TIX FOR NAVY AND PITT· CALL PEG 1314 
In DIRE NEED ol1.2.or3 MSU student or GA lix; Call Scott3271 
NEED 2 MSU GA SEAN 2771405 
IF YURt DOESN'T GET TWO MSU TIX HE PUSHES THE BUTTON AND NOBODY GOES TO THE GAME. CALL JAMIE 1693 
one student season t1cket tor best offer call bruce aner 8p'T1 289-6015 or 272­3619 
I need lour G. A.s tor MIChigan State. Call Bill at 3434. $$$$ 
Need 6 USC GA's and 2 P1t1sburgh GA's and possibly a la1ry godmother. I've got plenty ot gold. Call Kerry a1234-9114. 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2845084 
NEED ONE. OR TWO TICKETS TO N.D. MICH. ST. PLEASE CALL GREG 256· 0432 
NEED 1 TICKET FOR MICHIGAN STATE. CALL SCOTT AT 1219. 
I NEED 2 MICH. ST. TIX CALL JIM 3597 
DESPERATELY WANTEDIII 2 or 4 MICHIGAN STATE TIX. 'Tlany $$$ lo be paid. PLEASE call Stacey at x3762. 
FOR SALE· 2 M1ch. St. General Ad'Tlis­Sion Tickets. Call 1402. 
ATTENTION NEED 2 MSU GA TIX BRIAN 6315 
NEED MSU TIXS CALL 1584 
7 TICKETS TO M.S.U. ONLY $1400.00. PLEASE CALL 1779 AND ASK FOR SHYLOCK. 
DESPERATELY NEED YOUR MSU GA'S! CALL MIKE a11627 
WANTED 

Wanted: 2 dependable females to share llvtng expenses Jn a ntce, lurntshed house. $150.00 per 'TlOnlh (Includes rent and ut11111es). Non·s'Tlokers please. Call 239-5930 before s·oo or 291·9644 after 5 OOp.'Tl. 
RIDES 

DESPERATELY NEED AIDE FROM SAGINAW MICH. AREA· FRI. 9/16 DO YOU HAVE FRIENDS/FAMILY COMING TO ND FOR MSU GAME? PLEASE CALL JOAN A. SAP. 277·7576. 
NEED EXTRA CASH? A bold ND student with hal SIZe 6·716 IS reqwed lor one week. Sept 19th·23rd. Hours will be 4·30 to 6·30 evemngs. You will be dressed 1n a 19th century Brrt1sh cavalry umform & act as a local po1nllor THE ROYAL LANCER. Hatrstyhng tor men & women, Umverstty Com'Tlons (S.R. 23 between R1bordy's & Te'Tlpo FashiOn). For an 1nterv1ew call 272·7660 between 9:00 a'Tl & 6·00 P"' da11y. 
I NEED 2 GA'S OR STU TIX FOR MSU I! 
CALL JOHN AT 3217 
............................ 

Agress1ve man who likes to 'Tleet people 
to 'llske appoini'Tlents lor owner to sell 
home lmprove'Tlents EARN UP TO 
300.00 PER WK. ATRANSPORTA· TION FURNISHED Call MR. Calloway 71o 9 pm 2699056 
WANTED 26" 3-speed b1k~: ..;;;~~~ o; wo'Tlens; call272·6229 aner 5. 
················································· 

WANTED· ND·USC hx. Call 716·377· 7075 evemngs 6·10 p.'Tl. 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE: STEREO SYSTEM: NAD STEREO RECEIVER, NAD TURN­TABLE, AR SPEAKERS AND STEREO CABINET. CALL JIM OR ANN ANY EVENING BUT PLEASE NOT AFTER 10 P.M. 272-5588. 
Portable TV· B/W, good cond1t1on $30 277·2543 
..................... 
CHEAPI 5x6n. navy rug $20 Call 264­5490 
CHEAPI!j''jij~'s'jj.'"b;,',~~..;·~~..S2s"cA.Ll 284-5494 
········•···········•·· ··•···················· 

POP MACHINE FOR SALE $95 255­9507 
FOOTBALL EQUIPMENT REAL 
CHEAP·MIKE 1760 
............................ 

Charm1ng Cape Cod close to N.D. ~i.isol East Mad1son 1n N.E. 2 B.A. panneled bs'Tlt. ls'T11ly room or studio, 2 baths. fenced yard. Ideal lor proless1onal couple. Pnced to sell at $35,500.00 Forbes/ Vaner 267-7293 Evemngs 291­
0610 

LEACH RACKETBALL RACK· ET.GRAPHITE.BEST OFFFER.277·5153 AFTER 5 PM 
FOR SALE· MSU ga's and students. $40 each. Call 'Tllke 234-9560 
BIG BAR tor BIG PARTIES!! Must sell FAST and CHEAP Call6746 for Bar 
PERSONALS 

ciii:A'Eif:i.t'oG'ii'"oiEr···;;t:ii·N··:···;;;~~.-;~~-~-. 
personalized couseling. FREE! Cambndge Center. 256·5400. Chp lh1s ad tor savtngs! 
RICH UNCLE WANT$ TICKETS TO USC GAME. CALL x1763 ANYTIME AFTER 6 
MULTIMILLIONAIRE FRIEND WILL PAY MULTI-DOLLARS FOR 4-6 TICK­ETS TO MSU OR USC. CALL BILL AT x1763. 
I need 1 student hcket lor Mich. Slate. Call M1ke x6770. Thank-you. 
Fine MANNERS need the support of fine MANNERSin others.-Emerson 
Proper MANNERS are a s1gn ol good breedmg. 
MIND YOUR MANNERS MIND YOUR MANNERS MIND YOUR MANNERS 

If it's MANNERS that you seek, watch The Observer next week .. 
Any type of FILM lor only $.50. Call1312 tor more mtorrnatton. 
PARTY-PARTY-PARTY Sodom and Gomorrah 14011 South Bend Ave. This Friday ntte ALL ere welcome to come out end prepare for Mlch St. PARTY­PARTY-PARTY 
APPLICATIONS FOR JUDICIAL BD AT STUDENT ACTIVITIES IN HCC OR 174 LM 
NEED NEED NEED 2 MICHIGAN ST. GA'S PLEASE PLEASE CALL JOHN 3115811 

DEMPS. I MISS YOU VERY MUCH. LOVE ALWAYS JERRY 
THE OBSERVER Sa1nl Mary's off1ce IS now Open fro"' 12·30 to 3·oo. Monday through Fnday, 3rd floor. Haggar Center. 284·5365. 
Gomg ho'Tle early lor October break? L.A. GAL NEEDS 4 G.A.'S to see ND beat USC. W1ll pay MUCHO Splus I'll take you to DINNER! call M1chelle 264·4136 
N.D.· THERE'S NO PLACE LIKE DOME! I LOVE YOUI· SPICER 
Happy B·Day KEECHII How's illeello be a puedo-real 'T!an ? Call Keech at 8425 and f1nd out. 
······························ 

Chocolate chocolate Chip cookies, choc· olate ch1p cookies, peanut butter cookies, 'llolasses cook1es, Bubble Yu'll, Fnto L1ghls. M & M's, Twixes... 
HELPI I lost "'Y checkbook ( w1th 1.d.s ) AND a brown and wh1te ca'lleo nng msert Mon.. Sept 121 can youbeheve11? ). Both were poss1bly lost 1n C1 park1ng lot. Call 277-6039 11 you can help. 
WHO LOVES YOU. BABY? LOVE. AB· DUL! 
Who 1s th1s ABDUL? W111 he v1srt 711 Grace Fr1. Me? WHAT THEN MUST WE DO... ?!I 
M1ss Mary Day Ownn. What else IS so n1ce for the pnce. Reach out and touch So'llebody Thanks for do1ng 11 1n person. You're the best. Texans are better than all the rest · so let's show 'e'll what hfe's all about. Love. Ann 
The Pollee are not go1ng to be 1n concert but the Saml Mary's Observer ol1ce IS open MONDAY · FRIDAY. 12·30·3·00 
p.m. Send a personal to Sling today. 
NEED 2 TIX FOR MICH. ST. PLEASE CALL 272·51151. 
NEED MONEY? LIKE A CHALLENGE? TURN YOUR SPARE TIME INTO MONEY I Groupo or Individuals needed to promote college vacation touro. For mora Information: Call 414 711-(1455, or Wrlta: DESIGNERS OF TRAVEL, 4025 N. 124th St.-,Brookfleld, WI 53005. 
The Observer Thursday, September 15, 1983 -page 13 
• • • Scannell 
Tennis Pairings 

"I probably enjoy pass blocking

continued/rom page 16 
more than any other thing we have says. "He has been pertorming ex­to do," Scannell says jokingly, cellently this season. "because it's easier for us. 
"He is a vital part ofthat line." Sometimes during the game we can 
Just ask the Irish running backs, catch our breath between running who reeled off 339 rushing yards plays." against Purdue. 
Scannell's contribution was espe­cially evident on Allen Pinkett's 3'5­yard run. as Notre Dame drove for its initial touchdown. He and tackle Mike Shiner provided Pinkett with a tremendous hole that allowed the Irish tailback to break the big gaim:r. 
"In our offense we have a strong side and a quick side," explains Hig­gins. "Everyone know,~ that we can run to the strong side with Williams, (Neil) \1aune. and ( Mark) Bavaro over there. but since we have solid people like Scannell and Shiner on the quick side, it really helps keep the defense on their toes." 
Being part of this offensive line can make work on Saturdays quite a bit more enjoyable, even given the variety oftasks that are required. Tim Scannell 


STOCK UP FOR THE FOOTBALL GAME AT THE KING 

BEER 

However, the line cannot afford to become lackadaisical, since good football teams are the one that win the battles in the trenches. 
The main thing that must he guarded against when a team has so much talent is overcondfidence. 
"Over the past couple of years, we've tried to coach the hardest we can every week and impress upon the kids that you're never better than somebody until you've already defeated them," Higgins says. 
"All of the teams we face will be a good challenge for us," says Scan­nell. "Michigan State, for instance, has great defensive coaches, and that is a pretty big plus for them. They have a quick defense that will cer­tainly hit you. 
"They always give Notre Dame a good game. and I don't think that it'll be any exception on Saturday." 
Scannell appears to have made the right choice between Penn State and Notre Dame, if one considers this season's performances of both teams. 
All matches must be played and reported to the MIXED DOUBLES NVA off1ce by Wednesday. September 21. Men's Open Tennis Reid-Gonzales (277-7651) v. Gee-Jones (1022) Marten-Morrow (68401 v. bye 
Cogan (8057) v. Logan (1877) Moore-O'Bryan (7870) v. bye Runger (1432) v. M. McCabe Reyes-Schwebel ( 1 372) v. bye Pujals (8653) v. Ralph (1903) Gotuaco-V1IIalon (3329) v. Niii-Fay (1268) Bulon (8394) v. Boulet (8433) Reusch-Carol ( 1 073) v. Callis-O'Grady (1 288) Arellano (1461) v. Miller (1 107) Clifford-Locke (8171) v. Kelly-Toal (1073) Cooke (3316) v. Collins (8919) Stermtcke-Dolan (7891) v. Gardiner-Sloane (8646) Calloway (1527) v. Muyres (1775) Huebi-Campbell (3238) v. Russell-Russell (2895) Powers (1600) v. Welsey (6981) Rade-McEiroy (1 504) v. Jacoby-P1co (2968) Bery ( 1 177) v. Marchaunz ( 1 652) I'Tl'l)Onen-I'Tl'TlOnen (3091) v. Cooke-Schmell (331 6) P01ner (1471) v. C1erzn1ak (1 689) Thompson-Rodgers 16965) v. Gro;ean-'-/.olinsky 
lmmonen (3091) v. Goldner (6937) (1248) 
M1schke (4521) v. Guns (7743) Goulet-Duvet (277-7563) v. Para1so-Doughert)' Gee ( 1 022) v. Chou (3258) (1271) O'Bnen (1692) v. Anton1n1 (1633) Klisart-Lynch (1898) v. Stavetsk1-Stephen (8895) Wei'Tlholt (8921) v. Soergel (1575) Wall-Hagaman (1 1 95) v. Bailey-Cons•dine (3842) S•mone (3122) v. Gnff1n (1 178) Reardon-Bayle (8686) v McG1nn-To'Tlkow•tz (8173) Ja'Tles ( 1 530) v. Deeter I 1 983) Curt•s-Dalton (7443) v. Taneff-Kohlhass (1 1 29) 
Walker (1723) v. Donahue (1424) Sobczak-Delapena (1639) v. Benner-Zalud (1474) Re1dy (9070) v. Har'11an (1082) Sz t atkowski·Szat (8852) v. Sw1ec!sh (277-4 161) Duncan (1 103) v. Kelleher (8943) Ohve-Ba1ley (1596) v. COin-Schaffer (6803) Wall (1 HIS) v. Reyes (1372) Cleveland-Gallus (4514) v. Farley-Ca·neron (81 91) ls1waka (8944) v. Foley (1725) Kelly-Hofbauer (1605) v. Callaway-R1tCh1e (1527) Hayes (1 195) v. Kmpe (891 7) Ganshlrt-Cortes (1785) v. O'Bnen-AI'Tlelda (1692) Richardson (277-1.405) v We1gel (31 71) Lavoie-Kelly (8622) v. Chandoer-Berestka (7850) Sharp (3344) v. Hanna (3106) Bond-D1mello (1027) v. Meager-Greene (234-991 4) Rench (1073) v. Tuel (1478) Krenzer-Eversoll (8016) v. Deeter-Lechner (1983) Shafer (1219) v. Grunewald (6802) Randaii-RosenstrP (3417) v. Kaelin-Rowbury (1416) Defrances (1 139) v. Goulet (7563) Defeo-Deren (234-6498) v. Sacre-Bery (1 177) 
GroJean (1248) v. Hard1man (1223) Runger-Sch'Tlld (1432) v. bye Bosco-Upda v. bye Walters-Collins (3334) v. bye P01ner-Ukra1ne (1471 1 v. bye 
PRICES GOOD THRU SEPTEMBER 17, 1983 
LIQUOR WINE 
BLACK VELVET 

MILLERS 749 CANADIAN 
24 LOOSE 1.75 LITER CALVERT
BUDWEISER 
EXTRA 

24 LOOSE 
1.75 LITER 
HAMM'S 519 SALIGNAC 
24 LOOSE 
COGNAC 
750ML 
WILD TURKEY 


KINGS CELLAR BOURBON 
750 ML



BEER 
24 LOOSE 
GILBEY'S 


VODKA 
1.75 LITER 
GILBEY'S 

MICHELOB 899 GIN 
1.75 LITER

4/6 NR. 
SOUTHERN

MOLSON GOLDEN 14.99 
COMFORT 

MOOSEHEAD. 14.99 750ML HEINEKEN 14.99 LABATTS. 13.99 
QUARTS 

BUDWEISER 


OLD MILWAUKEE ....•••...••. 6.89 
-'"!• 
' ;, • )f,IT • 


We have a no hassle keg deposit policy. We accept student checks with N.D. ID's 
noonM~ 
99 9 BOLLA 


WINE 
750 ML
999 299 

' 
HJ8Rf J>t '\'F>t·· -'r~• 
CARLO ROSSI 
4LITER GAUO 
PREMIUMS 
3LITER CHRISTIAN BROTHERS 
TABLE WINES 
.ft'iiiilif 1.5 LITER TAYLOR 
CHAMPAGNE 
750ML 
BLACK TOWER
gss 
EBFRAUMILCH 
750ML ZONIN
59 9 ASTI SPUMANTE 
750ML 
ZONIN 
LAMBRUSCO 
750ML HAUS OF FRANZ 
LIEBFRAUMILCH 
BAG IN AlOX 4UTEI RED ONLY 

PEPPERMINT 

SOUTH BEND AVE. 
SCHNAPPS 

STORE ONLY 
1h PINTS 1.49 

The Observer Thursday, September 15, 1983 -page 14 

Neu• York Yacht Club, the head ofthe captain who lost the Cup will replace it. For 132 years, the U.S. has monopolized the treasured trop~y. Yesterday in Neu• York, Liberty took the first step toward addmgyet anotheryear to that reign by beating Australia11 by one minute, 10 seconds. Liber~y has a 1-0 lead in the best-of-~even 
series. 


~ Presents 
THE ORIGINAL MOVIE POSTER EXHIBIT AND SALE 
Hundreds of original movie posters and memorabilia from the silent days to the present. 
WHEN: Thur.&fri. 9115-9116 9om-5pm 
WHERE: Lafortune Center 
film clips shoWn all day long at our mini-theatre. 
DON'T MISS ITI 
Including such hi" as. Qone With The Wind Flolhdance Olllcer and a Cilenlleman l'lnkfloyd'o The WaM 
And Hundredl Morell 


THUMBS UP FOR 
HOME MADE REAL CHEESE DELICIOUS 



GOODTIME PIZZA 
836PORTAGE SOUTH BEND 
*Free Delivery To ND-SMC * 232-1883 
Sun. -Thur. 4PM -llPM Fri. -Sat. 4PM -lAM 
continued/rom page 16 
The win was the sixth straight and 19th in 22 games for the Orioles, who maintained their five-game lead in the American League East over Detroit, which beat Cleveland. Bos­ton dropped its third straight game. 
Martinez, 7-14, gave up four hits in six innings in his first appearanct' since Aug. 17. He worked out of three jams in which Boston had run­ners in scoring position with less than two outs. Stewart pitched the last three innings, earning his sixth 
save. 
Baltimore broke a scoreless tie with three runs in the fourth inning offJohn Tudor, 11-1 1. With one out, Cal Ripken singled, took second on Tudor's wild pitch and scored on Eddie Murray's ground-rule double. Roenicke, who hit a grand-slam homer against Boston Tuesday night, then hammered his 19th homer ofthe year deep over the left­
field wall. 
Hous. 4, L.A. 2 
HOUSTON (AP) -Phil Garner slammed a two-run homer in the seventh inning to lift the Houston Astros to a 4-2 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers last night. 
Loser Bob Welc.:h, 14-12, walked jose Cruz to open the seventh. After Ray Knight struck out,-Garner lofted Welch's 2-1 pitch over the left field wall for his 14th home run of the 
year. 
Despite the loss, the Dodgers held 
their four-game lead in the National 
League West over Atlanta, a 6-4loser 
to Cincinnati. Houston pulled with­
in seven games ofthe Dodgers. 
Steve Sax scored on run-scoring 
singles by Pedro Guerrero in the 
'1rst and third innings to give the 
Dodgers a 2-0 edge. 
• 
Sax started the game with a single 
offJoe Niekro. 14-12, stole second 
and came in on Guerrero's base hit 
to center Held. In the third inning, 
Sax singled, moved up when Bill 
Russell was hit by a pitch and took 
third base on Mike Marshall's fly ball 
before scoring on Guerrero's single. 
Cin. 6, Atl. 4 
CINCINNATI (AP)-Nick Esasky hit a grand-slam homer off reliever Steve Bedrosian to highlight a live­
the Cincinnati Reds to a 6-4 victory over the Atlanta Braves last night. 
The Braves took a 2-1 lead into the bottom of the seventh on the first of Dale Murphy's two two-run homers. 
Phil Niekro, 10-9, walked Eddie Milner and Gary Redus with two out, his seventh and eighth walks of the game. Dave Concepcion singled to score Milner and tie the game, and Niekro walked Dan Driessen to load the bases. 
Bedrosian replaced Niekro and Esasky hit a 2-2 pitch over the right­center field wall for his first career grand slam. Five of his 11 homers have been against the Braves. 
Reds starter Frank Pastore, H-12, scattered six hits over seven innings for the victory. 
Det. 5, Clev. 0 
DETROIT (AP) Larry Herndon's first-inning triple got Detroit rolling and Glenn Abbott tossed a four-hitter as the Tigers beat the Cleveland Indians 5-0 last night. 
It was the second successive vic­tory for Abbott, 7-4, who was claimed on waivers by the Tigers on Aug. 23. The soft-throwing right­

• • Baseball 
hander struck out t1ve and walked just one batter. No Indian advanced beyond second base. 
Alan Trammell walked in the Detroit t1rst, stole second and scored on Herndon's triple into the right-field corner, one of three Tiger triples in the game. 
Enos Cabell hit a leadoff triple in the fourth and scored on Chet Lemon's sacrifice fly -a sinking liner on which right-fielder (;eorge Vukovich made a diving catch to save extra bases. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

East  
w  L  Pet.  Gtl  
Philadelphia  76  69  .524  
Pittsburgh  75  70  .517  1  
Montreal  74  70  514  1.5  
St. LOUIS  73  71  .507  2.5  
Ch1cago  64  81  441  12  
New York  60  85  414  16  
West  
Los Angeles  84  61  .579  
Atlanta  80  65  552  4  
Houston  76  68  .528  7.5  
San D1ego  73  73  .500  11.5  
San Franc1sco  68  78  .466  16.5  
C•nc1nnat1  67  79  .459  17 5  

Yesterday's Results C1nc•nnat• 6. Atlanta 4 St. LOUIS 2. New York 1 P1ttsburgh 6. Ch1cago 3 Ph1ladelph1a 9-5. Montreal 5-0 Houston 4. Los Angeles 2 San D•ego 7. San Franctsco 4 
AMERICAN LEAGUE East 

w L Pet. GB Balt•rnore 88 55 .615 Detro1t 84 62 .575 5.5 New York 82 63 .566 7 Toronto 81 66 551 9 Milwaukee 79 67 541 10.5 Boston 69 77 .473 20.5 Cleveland 64 82 .438 25.5 
West Ch1cago 85 60 .586 Kansas C1ty 69 75 .479 15.5 Texas 68 78 466 17.~ Oakland 68 79 .463 18 Cahforn•a 64 81 .441 21 Minnesota 62 84 .425 23.5 Seattle 55 89 .382 29.5 
Yesterday's Resu~s Baltvnore 5. Boston 0 DetrOit 5. Cleveland 0 New York 4. Milwaukee 1 M1nnesota 1. Ch1cago 0 Kansas C•ty 1, Cahforn1a 0. 14 1nmngs Texas 4. Oakland 2 Toronto 4. Seattle 3
The Irish Gardens your Screw your Roommate Headquarters /Y---...., 7'! Star on campus and i~~~">­l save $$$by letting us t · · ? take care of your \: flower needs -0 ~ -~-­Dial M-U-M-5 (6867)0to place an orderJ• :::-, 0 ~ Located off the Nazz in the basement of LaFortune Hours: 12:30-5:30  
HE OR.IGINAL CONE A Dog That Always Comes When You Call Delivery Service On & Off Campus 9pm -1am Mon.-Thurs. 9pm ­2am f;ri.-Sat. Try to be our new Coney Champion!! $25 Cash & other Prizes Standing Record: 16 in one hour 289-8031 107 East LaSalle South Bend, IN 46601  


Go Irish!!! Beat State!!! 

r-------------~ 
~-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUBI 
College S!.udents 

You Can Earn $18 Per Hour Or...At Least... $540 Per Month Working On Your Own Schedule As Little As 1 Hour Per Day 
Well Established Firm Well Established Product 
Call Today Earn Tomorrow 277-5790 Ask For Mr. Stoler 



L------------..J 





']I['4(Jt~C3l~----------------------------------------T•h•u•r-sd•a•y·'·S-ep•t•e•m•b•e•r•1•5•,•1•9•8•3--·p•a•g•e--15
.. 

Slldent Union 
PRINTING SERVICE 
New -Replacing Campus Press Bring Carn$.rO;ieady poster art 
" 
·to 
S.U. Record Stor&··" ·~~:~···< · 
......... 

Bloom County 
NifTY. H~Rf. I AM AT MY 
HIGH 5CHIXX-RW-IION Wm1 A FAC€ NU¥.6 FROM iHE: 
VH OH. N05E: [;OWN. t£1'5 fm 
WH0'51HIS? I (J) ~Nanao. 
= 
~ 




Fate 
SoN, YOU'KE LOOKtN' Ar fHE MOsr POW£/fFI.CL SINC:,L£ SHOT PELLE( PISTOL ISSUED TP Norf.f 
!hSS€£. ':£EMS fAMIUAR ... 0 0 

Berke Breathed 
OH YC.S. RAt.PH ''111£ CARD" GI~PN~R. 

Photius 
FE'EL LUCKY 
PUNK? 
\ ·. 

The Daily Crossword 
9/15/83

1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

45 Marks 17 WWII 
on 23A beachhead 51 Meager 22 Arab chief 53 First 24 Cook's abbr. 
class 25 Rhino's 54 Ta-ta co~ ..._. 55 Young 28 -bene 
salmon 29 Pursues 56 Stationery 30 --mell 
printing 31 Amazon 59 "The King-" cetacean 60 Typewriter 32 Certain 
type mail 61 Afr. fgx 33 Zero Mostel 62 Hardy girl role 63 Be a con· 34 Digger's 
sumer find 64 Leap -37 Packaged 38 Pacific DOWN island 1 Enjoy group thoroughly 40 Old English 2 U. of Maine runes site 41 Mother: Lat. 3 Documents 43 Joel C. ­
ofpassage 44 Hindu 4 Dig in princess 5 Pillage 46 Old lan­6 Pen name? guage 7 Min. part 47 Ms. Lenya 8 Gets in 48 Bloated 
shape 49 Afr. lake 9 Kentucky 50 Passover specialties feast 10 Some 51 Argument 
envelopes 52 Glass 11 DNA factor sheet 12 European 57 Hebrew 
river priest 14 Adult 58 Fodder 


Campus · 
•3 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Using and Writing PROCS, 115 Computing Center 

•4 
p.m.-Radiation Lab Seminar, "Theoretical Studies on Cyclopropenyl Radical," Dr. Daniel M. Chipman, Rad. Lab Conference Theatre 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Rebecca," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, Sl 

•7:15 
p.m. -Slide Presentation, of the Vatican Collection, Annenberg Auditorium, Free 

•7:30 
p.m.m -Information Meeting, for Arts and Letters sophomores interested in the London Program, Library Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Open House, Hagger College Center SMC 



TV Tonight 
6:30p.m. 16 MASH 22 Family Feud 28 Joker's Wild 34 Straight Talk 
7p.m. 16 Gimmie a Break 22 Magnum, PI 28 Too Close for Comfort 34 The Ascent of Man 
7:30p.m. 16 MaMa's Family 28 NFL Football Special Cincinnati at Cleveland 
8p.m. 16 We Got It Made 22 Simon and Simon 34 Jazz in America 
8:30p.m. 16 Cheers 
9p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 34 Matters of Life and Death 
lOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 2H 
!0:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 CBS Late Movie 28 ABC News Nightline 
11:30 p.m. 16 Late Night with David Lettt·rman 

Far Side­
'•< 
~ 


ACROSS 1 Epistolary sign-off 5 Throaty sound 
9 Exercises . 13 Scena 14 Cowboy's 
rival 15 Iris layer 16 Mailman's 
game? 18 Capp's 
hyena 19 Ms. Merkel 20 Wrongs, 
in law 21 Onewho gazes 
23 Philate· list's con· cern 

26 Haggard novel 27 Greeting 
the dawn 30 Browning's 
"-Passes" 33 Drunkard 35 San Diego 
highlight 36 Biblical patriarch 37 Mythical 
outcasts 38 Honor 39 Fleur· 
de·­40 Hesitate 41 Goldbug? 42 Soap· 
smeared 44 Reign, in Calcutta 
Wednesday's Solution 
Thursday, September 15, 1983-page 16




Sports 

Irish unleash powerful scoring explosion on defenseless Bethel 
ByALGNOZA 
Sports Writer 
They brought along a big crowd, a handful of noisy cheerleaders, and some cute blue uniforms. One sort of had the feeling that Bethel Col­lege was all set to avenge last year's 12-0 loss to Notre Dame. 
No, it was the same old BetheL At the end of the night, the scoreboard read: Notre Dame 11, Pilots 0. 
"This was a big game for them," said winning coach Rich Hunter. "And we played very welL We suc­cessfully kept the pressure o t n them." 
The Irish dominated the game hy simply keeping the hall ·away from their outmanned visitors. By mid­first half, the Bethel fans reached delirium when their troops crossed miqfield. 
"We passed very well," said Irish captain Mark Luetkehans. "There was good communication and we seemed to control all the 50-50 balls." 
Steve Chang got the Irish on the board just six minutes into the game, triggering an offensive explosion that resulted in 3 very quick goals. Hertegen scored less than two minutes after Chang as he stole a pass in front ofthe Pilot net and beat goalie Steve Crawford low to the right hand side. 
Ohscrver Photo/Paul <:tfarclli One minute later, Mark Bidinger lofted a beauty of a cross to a charg­
SofJbomorejock Wutschlerdril¥!S pasta Bethel defender inyester­
ing Richard Hertegen who headed it
day's 11-0 drubbing oftbe Pilots. The victory followed a 7-0 Irish 
home past a clueless Crawford.
win ot•er Valparaiso on Tuesday. For game reports, see AI Gnoza's 
"That's how we've been scoring
story at ri[!,ht. 

goals lately," said Hunter of Notre 
Sophomore starts 

Scannell is fulfilling his potential 
By THERON ROBERTS 
.\j}()r/s Writer 
!'rom the heart of Pennsylvania ­Penn State country -comes Notre Dame starting quick guard Tim Scan­nell. 
That may not he the place where Ilead Coach Gerry Faust gets most of his top tlight recruits, hut he certain­ly got a good one in the sophomore Scannell. 
Scannell became a starter in the 
fall after seeing action in eight games 
last season and hdng the only fresh­
man lineman to earn a monogram in 
19H2. 

Although it is becoming increas­ingly common to see freshmen and sophomores on the field in college football, few sophomores have started on the offensive line at Notre Dame. 
Irish offensive line coach Jim Hig­gins likes to compare Scannell to tackle Larry Williams, who started last season as a sophomore. 
"lie has not yet reached his poten­tial," Higgins states, "hut he's as good a sophomore as I've seen here on the otlcnsive line. I would compare him to Larry Williams last year. 
"You don't find too many players coming in with as much maturity as Tim had. lie's had a good football background and learned the fun­damentals of the game at an early age." 
Scannell himself attributes some of his talents to the fact that he lived so close to Penn State and worked a lot on building up his strength while being advised hy the Nittnay Lion coaching statl 
"Probably the biggest area that it 
helped me was in strength develop­
ment because I did a lot of weight 
training up there," Scannell recalls. 
Since coming to Notre Dame, Scannell has had to rely a little more on technique than he has had to in the past, whereas before, he could count on the strength he packs into his 6-4, 270-lh. frame. 
"Oflensive line players use a lot of technique," Scannell says. "There's a big difference between high school and college because everyone is as big as or bigger than you. 
"I think I've caught on to what the coaches are trying to have us do, whereas it normally may take a couple of years for a person to ac­quire the proper technique." 
Learning new things isn't the only problem Scannell has experienced playing in college. 
A knee problem required Scannell to have surgery in April, and over the summer he worked ardently to get his knee hack to full strength. 
"I've spent a couple of hours each day over the summer working on the weights and with an electric simulator," he says. "I gradually worked up to running and then sprinting. Once I was within ten per­cent of full strength, I started to work on my lateral movement by playing some racquetbalL That real­ly was a good confidence builder, and it hasn't bothered me at all after that." 
Higgins was both amazed and pleased with the speed of Scannell's recovery. 
"Quite honestly. I've never seen anyone come back that well from what was supposed to be a serious injury," Higgins says. "I think that the way he worked over the summer to rehabilitate it is testimony to his character and his determination." 
Higgins continues his praise of Scannell when talking about his two best attributes. 
"The best thing about Tim is his intelligence, because of the various number of blocking schemes he has to absorb," his coach comments. "Second is his strength. He has tremendous upper body strength, and he has the ability to outmuscle most ofthe people he will face." 

So far this fall, after having a bit of difficulty maintaining the strength in his knee during two-a-days, Scannell has been doing a superb job. 
"He has regained his speed and has confidence in his knee," Higgins 
see SCANNELL, page 13 
Dame's penchant for clustering its Harkenrider, Chang, and Bea.,ley tallies. "We've been working on the also added goals to help the Irish basics, having the ballcrossed in over the Crusaders. front ofthe goal while the center for­Despite the consecutive offensive ward charges the net." dispays, Hunter found time to praise 
Also joining in the scoring orgy one of his defensemen. were Ken Harkenrider, Bidin­"Eric Watkins played super both ger(twice in the second half), Eric nights," said Hunter. "lie deserves Evans (on a smooth give and go), alot ofcredit." Steve Ryan( on a feed from Tom Now that the fun is over the Irish Daley), Joe Howe, Bill Beasley, and face a tough foe l'riday night in Pat Szanto. Loyola of Chicago. 
Howe's goal came on a breakaway "They're an improved team since as the Irish sophomore came in we heat them last year ( 3·1 ),"said alone on Crawford, faked him to his Luetke hans. "They have five scholar­knees, then punched the ball into ships in their program." the wide open right side for the final goal ofthe night. Had the game been IRISH ITEMS -The Irish fans a prizefight it would have been a were treated to a second half cold TKO much earlier. shower, courtesy of the campus 
Last night's win followed Tuesday ground crew. One sprinkler behind night's 7-0 crushing of visiting Val­the stands went berserk in the final paraiso in which Hertegen scored minutes of the game and scurried four goals -all on head balls. the already frozen faithfuL 

Phillies sweep Expos 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Mike 
Schmidt and Len Matuszek hit home 
runs and reactivated Marty Bystrom 
pitched a five-hitter to trigger the 
Philadelphia Phillies to a 5-0 victory 
over the Montreal Expos last night 
and a sweep of their twi-night 
doubleheader. 
In the first game, Joe Morgan and Schmidt each slammed two-run homers in a four-run fourth that helped Steve Carlton post his 298th career victory, a 9-5 decision. The sweep gave the Phillies a one-game lead in the National League East over the Pittsburgh Pirates, who heat Chicago 6-3. 
Schmidt hit a two-run shot in the first inning of the second game, his NL-leading 36th, and Matuszek slammed a three-run homer in the third for his first major league homer. Both came off loser Ray Bur­ris, 4-7. 
Bystrom, 6-9, in his first start since returning from the 21-day disabled list, allowed tive hits, struck out four and walked only three. 
The Expos, who started the day a half-game in front of the Phillies in the Ea.~t. slipped from first to third, falling l l-2 games in back of Philadelphia. 
In the second game, Juan Samuel opened the game with a walk, and then Schmidt bombed a ~me-out homer over the 40H-foot sign in dead center field. 

In the third, Bystrom led offwith a single and advanced to second on a single by Samuel. Matuszek, who was recalled from Portland of the Pacific Co;L~t League, then hit his homer over the right field wall to make it 5-0. 
In the opener, Carlton notched No. 29H on his sixth attempt and boosted his sea.son record to 13-1 5. The all-time major-league strikeout leader with 3,683, Carlton fanned eight and walked four in eight in­nings before getting last-inning reliefhelp from AI Holland. 
Carlton now needs just two wins to become the 16th pitcher in major-league history to record 300 victories. 
Bait. 5, Bos. 0 

BOSTON ( AP) -Dennis Mar­tinez and Sammy Stewart combined for a six-hitter, and Gary Roenicke smacked a two-run homer to lead the streaking Baltimore Orioles to a 5-0 victory over the Boston Red Sox last night. 
see BASEBALL, page 14 

Boathouse to be dedicated 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports writer 
This weekend's dedication festivities for the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Rowing Club's new boat­house marks the result ofa two-year effort to obtain the new facility. 
Starting at 9 a.m. on Saturday, the rowing club will hold its annual Alumni Row which will be followed by a tailgater preceding the kickoff of the Michigan State game. After the game, the club will sponsor a party for the rowing alumni and their families. 
The women's rowing coach, Jill DeLucia, an­ticipates a large turn-out for this year's Alumni Row and reunion due to the completion ofthe boathouse. DeLucia says the Alumni Row will allow members of the varsity crew to meet and race against some crew "legends." The row will also allow alumni to see the club's new equipment which was funded mainly through alumni contributions. 
On Sunday, Father James Burchell will conduct a 9:45a.m. dedication mass. The mass will be followed by a dedication ceremony where Atheletic Director Gene Corrigan will speak. A ribbon cutting ceremony starting at 11 a.m. will be followed by a catered brunch. 
The total cost of the boathouse was 537,000. To raise this sum, the club was granted a SI0,000 three-year loan from the University. The remaining $27,000 came from private solicitation organized in cooperation with the Developments Office. 
According to Club President Joe Stiglmeier, the club received most of this sum from alumni. "The alumni are good to us," says Stiglmeier. 
One ofthe most important advantages of the new boathouse is its proximity to campus. The former boathouse was located eight miles from campus and required a 20-minute trip for team members to get to practice. 
The new facility is located 1.9 miles from campus at the end of Notre Dame Avenue, on the river. It is hoped the new location will increase practice time and help draw larger crowds to the crew's meets. "The visibility alone will help boost morale," says DeLucia. 
Another distkt advantage to the new facility is in­creased space. The boathouse has double the equip­ment capacity of its predecessor, and it is now possible for all crew members to practice at the same time. DeLucia predicts that the acquistion of this facility will help the crew program to expand to twice its current size. 
Stiglmeier believes the boathouse "will allow the club to expand at a natural rate." He also believes that with more members and more depth, the team will be more competitive on a national level. 




