~------~--~~--~~-­
Shuttle -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO.'/ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1983
the inlkpcnucnt ~tuucnt ncw~papcr "l'n ing notn dame and ...aint mary·.., 


Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Le.banon -U.S. naval guns hammered away at Druse ar­tillery positions in Lebanon's central mountains yesterday, and for the first time a U.S. spokesman said the firing was in support ofthe Lebanese army's defense ofSouk ei-Gharb. 
The government's Radio Beirut reported that fighting raged into the night in the mountain tow11 overlooking the Lebanese capital. An army communique said a Lebanese Bulldog reconnaissance plane crashed near the Druse moun­tain town ofAley "and the fate ofthe two pilots is still unknown." 
It was the third time in the 16 days of renewed civil war that U.S. ships have opened fire and the first time since Syria warned Sunday that its troops in Lebanon would fire back if attacked by American ground, air or sea forces. 
Druse spokesmen in Beirut claimed the American shells landed in about five towns around Souk el­Gharb and an undetermined num­ber of civilians were killed. But U.S. officials insisted the guns were firing at military positions. 
Israeli Druse leaders protested to 
U.S. Ambassador Samuel Lewis in Tel Aviv, claiming Washington was supporting the Christian Phalangists against the Druse in the fighting. The Druse sect is an offshoot oflslam. 
French Foreign Minister Claude Cheysson, whose government has troops in the multinational force in Beirut, also criticized American military intervention in the civil war. He said he did not believe that the U.S. action, particularly the Navy shelling, "is the best method to achieve" a settlement. 
The destroyer John Rodgers and the guided missile cruiser Virginia fired repeated barrages in the morn­ing and again in the afternoon as the U.S.-trained Lebanese Army's 8th Brigade fought with Druse and Palestinian guerrillas attacking Souk ei-Gharb, the mountaintop town nine miles southeast of Beirut that overlooks the U.S. Marine base at the Beirut airport. 
"The naval gunfire support was conducted on military targets threatening the Lebanese armed forces defending Souk el-Gharb," said U.S. Embassy spokesman John Stewart. "Successful Lebanese armed forces defense of the area is vital to the safety of U.S. personnel, including the U.S. multinational forces, other U.S. military and the 
U.S. diplomatic corps personnel." 


Student Senate allocates $1000 for independent teacher evaluations 
By ELIZABETH FLOR tion." has allocated $1,000 to the effective, Riley feels that they will 
cause. The resolution says that open doors to more faculty coopera­"teacher evaluations would be very tion in the future. The Student Senate also approved 
News Staff 

On a questionnaire distributed to useful to students in the important faculty, "approximately 60 to 65 process ofcourse selection~" the final members of the Judicial percent wrote they didn't want us to Review Board. "Their job is to act as
Riley believes that those faculty see teacher/course evaluations at against the idea have no direct 

an appeals board beyond Dean Roemer," said Bob Gleason, Judicial
all," said Bob Riley at last night's Stu­reasons for opposition. In fact, he Chairman. The Student Government
dent Senate meeting. hopes that the evaluations will aid Board of Commissioners selected a

Riley, Student Senator for District teachers because students will take mix of"outstanding members of the
2 said he randomly sent about 100 them more seriously. faculty and administration."
questionnaires to teachers. The Student Government is uncertain Brian Callaghan, Student Body
questionnaire had five possible op­how it will summarize the evalua­president, described Project SHARE
tions, ranging from disclosing the tions and print them for student use. evaluations to all students to not Tentatively, the evaluations will 

as a move to get "all of the dorms involved, every Sunday, taking col­
revealing the evaluations to students start this fall. lections at their Masses." A commit­
at all. Student Body Vice-President Peg­tee of four to five liturgicalIn a discussion with a department gy Prevoznik hopes that the commit­commissioners from the dorms willhead who supported sharing the tee will include some faculty and decide each week which organiza­

teacher/course evaluations with department chairmen as we "do not tion will receive the money. Dorms

students, Riley was "warned that want it to be us against them," she participate on a volunteer basis

there might be a lot of adverse reac­said. starting the first Sunday ofOctober.
tions." Riley said that they would like to The Student Affairs Committee

The Senate, passing a resolution to get interested faculty on the com­will meet this week to plan an
appoint a committee to administer mittee for Students' Teacher Evalua­an "independent teacher evalua-tions. If the questionnaires are see STUDENT SENATE, page <t 


This tree located near the Knights ofColumbus building on theSouth Quad 


Memories of Vietnam linger on for soldiers in El Salvador uprising 
Associated Press snapped to a reporter. "I did the best 
I could." 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador Like many of his fellow officers, 
-They labor today in the cool this tough, crew-cut 30-year green shadows of Central American veteran, who is training hundreds of volcanoes. But for these hardened Salvadorans as commandant ofa U.S. American soldiers, struggling Army school in Panama, is more against yet another guerrilla upris­confident about the chances for ing, the memories linger of rice success this time -if U.S. support paddies, jungle trails and debacle remains firm. half a world away. The senior adviser, who for 
"We're going to do it right this security reasons cannot he iden­time," says a senior U.S. military ad­tified, spent three years in Vietnam, viser here. two working with Vietnamese army 
El Salvador and Vietnam. units. 
"There are two lessons in par­
ticular I think we learned in Viet­
TUESDAY 
nam," he said in an interview here. 
"First, we've got to keep away 
from the body-count thing." Exag­
FOCUS 
gerated reports of guerrilla 
casualties in Vietnam chipped away 
at U.S. government credibility. 
Linking the two wars draws quick "Second, we now know that small-rebuttal from the Reagan administra-unit operations at night are the way tion. to go. We weren't doing that early 
"There is no comparison with enough in Vietnam. It takes away the Vietnam," President Reagan said at a guerrillas' war of movement." July news conference, "and there's And that is the way the Salvadoran not going to be anything ofthat kind army its going as it trie~ to seize the in this." initiative in the four-year-old war. 
In a key respect, the situations dif-Encouraged hy Vietnam-seasoned fer greatly: at the war's height, American advisers, the army has 525,000 American combat troops turned to new tactics to clear an es­were in Vietnam. Here, the timated 1,000 guerrillas from the American military presence is central Salvadoran province of San limited to several dozen advisers, Vicente, sending small "hunter" uni­some shuttling in from U.S. bases in ts on nighttime patrols to keep the nearby Panama. insurgents off balance. The gunrii-
But the lldvisers themselves, the las appear to have pulled back. men closest to the action, repeated-"In the past, the operations were ly invoke Vietnam and its lessons as large-scale, with minimal contact. they plot strategy and appeal for a The army would leave an area after a stronger U.S. commitment to El Sal-week, and the guerrillas would vador. And they frequently sound come back in," explained an Army bitter. major, an El Salvador specialist and 
"Don't talk to me about why we Vietnam veteran, at U.S. Southern didn't succeed in Vietnam," Col. Command headquarters in Panama. Nicholas A. Andreacchio, holder of 
see EL SALVADOR, page 4 
the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry, 
--------------------~ -------------------,;:c_ 
The Observer Tuesday, September 20, 1983 -page 2 
. 
-~--­


In Brief 

Save the Dome 
A man charged with arson in the bombing of a hotel owned hy lollowt"rs of an Indian guru was transferred to a regular hospital room after being released from custody on bond. Stephen P. Paster, _H, of Los Angeles, who had been held in the hospital's security ward, suffered injuries to his arms, face and torso in the july 29 hla~t at the Hotel Rajneesh in Portland. He is to undergo more surgt·ry, Scot Roskelley, spokesman for the Portland Adventist Medi­cal Center, said. A woman who identified herselfas his wife, Linda C. Paster, posted bond and delivered a statement t to The Oregonian. The newspaper reported that the statement was critical of the fol­lowers of guru Hhagwan Shree Rajneesh. No details were given. ­
AP 

A teachers union has med a grievance to help find a job for Paul W. Lataille, who spent six months in jail for failing to pay alimony to his former wife. l.ataille, 51, was jailed in March on a contempt citation when he decided not to give his former wife s1~.1-100 in hack payments. The sixth-grade teacher asked for t~ree months ofunpaid leave hut was given the whole school year, leaving him johlt·ss when he was released Sept. 6 after his wife's lawyer tapped his pt·nsion fund. Union spokesman james Bryce said the grievance Hied last week protests school officials' refusal to shorten the leave and give l.ataille a recent vacancy. Superintendent Rost·marie Kavanagh said there were no jobs available. -AP 
The largest river-crossing in NATo history 
began in Wanssum in the Netherlands here today, almost 39 years to the day after the Allied river-crossing disaster_ at n~arhy_ Arnhem during World War II. U.S., British and Dutch umts built bndges and piloted ferries to move ~00 tanks hound for West Germany across the Maas and Rhine Rivers. The three-day crossing is part of"Autumn forge," a two-month-long exercise involving more than 250,000 NATO troops in Western Europe. The crossing is taking pl_a~e near Arnhem, the scene of an abortive wartime thrust by Bnttsh and American forces on Sept. 1 7, 1944. During that operation, British paratroopers seized the Arnhem bridge over the Rhin~. But they were cut off and massacred by German forces before Alhed ground troops could arrive. -AP 
Of Interest 

Urban Plunge hall representatives m~t last night t_o 11nalize plans for dorm publicity and application db~r~h!ltio~ lo-'. th1s year's Urban Plunge. Beginning next week, information wm_ he posted and hall representatives will he available for qu~st1ons concerning the Plunge -a social-awareness program held m over SO cities in january that focuses on urban problems. -The0bsert1er 
Saint Mary's Cushwa-Leighton Library has 
extended its hours on an experimental basis. The library is now open until midnight, allowing students an extra hour of studying time from the previous closing time. The library's hours are: 7:45a.m. to midnight Monday-Friday, 9 a.m. to 12 a.m. Saturday (except home football game weekends when it is open noon to 6 p.m.) and 1 p.m. to midnight on Sunday. -The Obsert,er 
"The Autobiography ofMiss jane Pittman" will he shown tonight and tomorrow at .., p.m. in the auditoriu_m of the ( .t·nter for Social Concerns. The movie documents the fictmnal hfe of a black woman from her childhood as a slave to the age of II 0. f-red Wright, asst. professor of Government and International '•tudics and director of Black Studies, will lead a discussion after the film. Professor Kathleen Weigert and Piper Griffin, a senior and a representative from the Black Cultural Arts Council, will lead tomor· row's discussion. -The Obsert'er 
The ND World Hunger Coalition woutd 
like to thank those students who pledged to fast during the Wednes­day lunch. The Coalition would also like to remind those students that the Fast hegins tomorrow. A Mass at 12:10 p.m. in the Sacred Heart Crypt will begin the fasting program. All are welcome. -The 0/Jsen•er 

Weather. . · · 
An 80 percent chance of thunderstorms and showers, windy and turning cooler today. High in upper 70s and low 80s. Much cooler and breezy tonight with a 20 percent chance of early shower~. Low in mid and upper 40s. Cloudy and very cool tomorf<lw with chance of showers. High in upper 50s a_nd low 60s. 
-AP 

We d1·eamed too small a dream. Tomorrow we will begin again and build it bigger, and when it is built, we willputa golddome on top. -Father Edward Sorin 
It will be one hundred years ago this fall that the scaffolding was removed from around the Dome and the structure stood "revealed in all its grandeur," according to aScholastic article ofthe time. 
Sorin promised Notre Dame a golden dome after his famous "even if it were all gone, I would not give up" speech in 1879. 
His collegues later reneged on the plan, thinking Sorin's foolish eccentricity too expensive. Sorin left campus vowing not to return until fellow ad­ministrators agreed to the idea. 
They agreed. 

So Notre Dame built the foundation, the skeleton and the wood facade, Saint Mary's bought the statue and the Dome was created. 
And if Father Sorin is watching today, he is not at all pleased with what has become ofhis Dome. 
Recently I was given the opportunity to explore the closed fifth floor of the Ad­ministration Building. That floor, not open to the public for the last 25 years, once housed the fine arts depart­ment and a variety ofclasses including architecture, mec­hanical drawing, speech, () music and journalism. 

The huge double-storied classrooms of the fifth floor /) stand vacant now. The skylights filter dim sunlight •· on dusty wooden floors. The faded wainscotting, falling plaster and ancient radiators appear strangely out of place next to the shiny pipes of the ceiling sprinkler system installed in 1981. 
Dusty murals of civil war battle scenes line the cor­ridors, forgotten momentos of a 19th century cyclorama promoter who ran out of mor)ey !},ere. Below the murals are wooden cases that contained Civil War memorabilia until 1942, when they were emptied after a fire scare. 
The cases now contain the dated scribblings of countless forgotten undergrads who felt the need to im­mortalize illicit midnight visits to the forbidden floor. Glancing at the names and dates, I wondered where the inquisitive student who "made it to the top in '63" is now. He is probably a corporate executive today, if he wasn't expelled for his moonlit adventures. 
Most ofthe names are dated between 1960 and 1980. After-hours flash-lit investigations seem to have dwindled these past few years, perhaps due to in­
creased security measures. 

Composition Editor ........ Thomas Robert Composition Assistant....................... Dave Layout Staff........................................... Chris Typesetters ................................. Tom & Ted News Editor............................................... Vic Copy Editor............................................ Marc Sports Copy Editor ..................................jeff Editorials /.ayout ................................... Ken Science Layo"ut ....................................... Tom ND Day Editor....................................... Dave Ad De.;i!in ........................................... jeannie Pbolo!irapber ........................................Scott Gl4est Appe<~rances And then there were 
two (Miami Road Trippers). Denise the lleezer, Sully and Maggie Manners ("Deadline? What deadline?"). Dave and Kevin visit Alberts 
"At _\:00 in the morning, when you're in hed. the Holsum Bakers are halting hread." 
Observer version: 
"At _.o\:00 in the morning, whf'n you're 
in bed, the last thinJ.t you want to hear is 
the/"&)!& pager'" 
The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) •s publtshed Monday through Fnday and on home football Salurdays. except dunng exam and vacatton penods The ObMrver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys College Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnttng The Obaerver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The ObMrver IS a member of The Aaaocl.ted Preu. All reproduction nghts are reserved 


Ma.rgaret Fosmoe.1:... J;!
, ... 

Managing Editor ... 
Inside Tuesday ·~. ·..... · 
Colorful stories describing the door to the upper bal­cony and the Dome itselfhave become a part ofcampus folklore. Those stories art' true. That famous door on the fifth floor is made ofsolid oak, plated with steel, and secured with an iron bar, three massive locks and an alarm system. 
The insurance policy allows only workmen above the fifth floor. That hasn't stopped the truly adventurous, however. Additional graffiti marring the upper balcony 
is much more visible from the top floor. 
Also more visible are massive cracks in the four­door frames on the balcony. And the deterioration of the paint on the upper walls lends a shabby air to the cen­ter of Notre Dame. 
Luigi Gregori, the artist who painted the Administra­0 
tion Building murals and maintained his studio on the fifth floor, would probably drop over in his palate if he saw the condition of his for­
0 
floors ofit. 

The decay of the Administration Buiiding started long ago. In 1959, a Scholastic writer wrote a satirical piece titled "The Decline and Fall ofthe Main Building." 
Things have gotten worse since then. 
We should not he content to let it continue deteriorating. Remember the fate of the Old Fieldhouse. 
If you happen to notice a slight change in the figure atop the Dome soon, it will probably be a downward tilt of the head. That will be Our Lady, bowing her head in shame at what has become of her building. 
ARTS AND LETTERS 
BUSINESS SOCIElY 
Organizational Meeting 
TONIGHT Tuesday, Sept. 20, 7:00pm 124 Hayes-Healy 
interested in working 


TECHNICAL STAFF 
for 

FIDDLER ON THE ROOF 
-A Student Players Production-
Wednesday, 8:00-9:30 pm 
Little Theatre in LaFortune 

,~­
The Observer Tuesday, September 20, 1983 -page 3 



New schedule, route extends shuttle service between two campuses 
By ALAN PARKIN realized some minor conflicts would News Staff occur. For example, one Saint Mary's stu­
A new schedule and route have dent complained that her class ends extended the Notre Dame-Saint at 2:05, the same time the shuttle Mary's shuttle bus' service to the leaves LeMans HalL This makes it dif­northern part ofthe campus. ficult for her to catch the shuttle to 
The new route services the take her to a 2:20 class on the Notre Douglas Road area, including the Dame campus. University Village, Moreau Semi­McDonnell explained that this nary, St. Joseph Hall and the Notre type of problem occurred last year Dame Credit Union. also. "What we do is call the bus 
The new schedule resulted from company and ask them to delay the the cooperation of Dr. James bus for a few minutes to allow the McDonnell and Mary Anne student to catch the shuttle." Both O'Donnell, the directors of student O'Donnell and McDonnell advise activities at Notre Dame and Saint against taking back-to-back classes at Mary's, respectively, along with the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's if at all student governments of both possible. schools. 
Neither McDonnell nor 
The change in the schedule O'Donnell has received any com­resulted from the number of re­plaints about the new schedule. 
quests for improved service to the However, a few students have com­northern section of campus from plained to the bus drivers, McDon­Moreau residents and tenants ofUni­nell said. One driver received a 
versity Village. 
complaint from the Village from a 
By PAUL McGINN 
Bolling's remarks came approximately two weeks af­
After receiving the support of the 
person worried about the safety of IE~cecluti1ue EdttorSaint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­ter Hesburgh announced the establishment of thesmall children when the buses are peace academy at the first meeting of a newly formeddent governments, the two activities around. 
The Notre Dame-sponsored Inter-Faith Academy of 
class called "The Nuclear Dilemma."
directors began working together 
Peace in Jeruselem will study "global challenges
on rewriting and rerouting the McDonnell and O'Donnell have represented by the nuclear arms race and the rash of Bolling, a Quaker, and former president of Earlhamshuttle bus. They tried to accom­sent new schedules to the dorms regional wars around the world," says r. Land .rum Bol­College in Indiana, now serves as research professor ofmodate everyone and considered all and other student-frequented places ling, president ofthe Ecumenical Institute for Advanced diplomacy at Georgetown University's School ofpossible conflicts; however, they to inform students ofthe changes. 
ITlile()lo:gical Studies. Foreign Service. The peace academy, to be located on the institute's In introducing Dr. Bolling during a news conference 
campus, will bring together theologians and scholars of 
at the Center for Continuing Education, University
the Christian, Hindu, Moslem, Buddhist, and Jewish

Loux named Dean of 
Provost Timothy O'Meara said that Notre Dame willfaiths. 
make the institute and academy "more independent" of
The academy will "institutionalize" the work of 
its control.

scientists and theologians who oppose the arms race,

Arts and Letters 
according to Notre Dame spokesman Michael Garvey. Founded by Hesburgh in 1972, the ecumenical in­ByTRIPP BALTZ intend to teach any philosophy 
Many ofthose same theologians and scientists met with stitute remains structurally independent of the Univer­News Staff courses this year. He hopes in the 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh at sity, though Hesburgh's fund-raising efforts continue to future to teach one course per year. 
seminars in Rome and Vienna in late 1982 and early supply approximately 90 percent of the institute's Professor Michael). Loux, former Asked if he sees any changes that 
1983 to prepare statements condemning the use of financial resources. Hesburgh also serves as board chairman of the philosophy depart­should be made in the Arts and Let­
nuclear weapons. chairman of the institute. ment, was named Dean of the Col­ters Program, Dean Loux said that lege of Arts and Letters over the two associate deans have also been summer. appointed to the program this year. Nathan 0. Hatch and Roger B. 

Family bludgeoned to death; 
Skurski will assist Loux in determin­ing the need for any changes or new programs. With their assistance, 

two-year-old daughter survives 
Loux will be able to better monitor Associated Press bery at the two-story brick home on Engle said. 
programs in the college. 
the city's southwest side. Anyone "It's at best confusing," saidLoux's main objective this year FORT WAYNE, Ind. The who entered was either led in or Ahlbrand, noting that all the victimswill be to revitalize the image ofthe bludgeoning deaths of the Fort came in through a locked door, he and the dog had bled profusely, andCollege . of Arts and Letters. He Wayne News-Sentinel's editorial said. the mother and son had movedbelieves that in recent years an in­page editor, his wife and 11-year-old "We have every indication that about the house after they were at­tensely career-oriented attitude son were described as a "brutal, there was nothing stolen," said tacked. "There was blood in areasamong students has caused a decline sadistic slaughter" yesterday by Al­Engle, adding that items such as where it was difficult to say how itin the number ofstudents in the Col­len County Coroner Roland small television sets, jewelry and got there."
lege ofArts and Letters. 
Ahlbrand. money were visible around the Ahlbrand said he expected toMany students and their parents, The victims were Dan Osborne, house. complete the autopsies by today.
he believes, are worried about the 35, who joined The News-Sentinel Osborne was found clad in shorts Stewart Spencer, executive editoravailability of jobs, and thus are in.April; his wife, Jane, and their son, and aT-shirt, lying on his back in an of The News-Sentinel, said Osbornemore supportive of a professional Ben. upstairs bedroom with bedclothes twas responsible for writing some ofmajor than ofa liberal arts program. 
His 2-year-old daughter was found pulled up to his knees, Ahlbrand the editorials that appeared on TheLoux believes that this attitude has alive in the home yesterday morning said. Beside him in the bed was the News-Sentinel's editorial page. Hechanged and that many businesses after spending more than 48 hours family's dog, which also had been said he knew of no threats that hadactually prefer a liberal arts back­


ground. 
$$ WANTED $$ USCvs.ND OOTBALL TICKET (213) 481-7079 
with her dead parents and brother. bludgeoned to death. He said the been received by Osborne or the 
Ahlbrand said the victims ap­bed was covered with blood from newspaper. parently had been attacked in their the man and the dog. Spencer said Osborne was to have sleep and that 2-year-old Caroline On the floor at the foot ofthe bed reported to work at 7 a.m. yesterday. 
underwent surgery for injuries last was the son, in a zipped-up sleeping When he didn't show up, his im­night. bag. He was clad in shorts and a T­mediate supervisor, Associate Editor "This girl was raped, a 2-year-old, shirt. T. Craig Ladwig, went to the house. to the extent that she required surgi­Mrs. Osborne was found in a "I saw both cars in the driveway. I cal repair," said a police source who downstairs room, lying face down went up and knocked on the door asked not to be identified. He added with her nightgown pulled up to her and heard no dog barking. That was 
that the child was in satisfactory waist. enough for me to call police," Lad­condition last night at Lutheran "It looked like she was injured and wig said. Hospital at Fort Wayne. tried to get away," Ahlbrand said. Ladwig, who said he was Os­
Ahlbrand told reporters after "Blood was here and there around borne's friend for about six years, completing an autopsy on Osborne the house." He said he could not described him as an unruffled, calm, and preliminary post-mortems on determine if she was sexually as­steady editor. "He was kind ofa man the other two victims that all three saulted. for all seasons," he said. 
were bludgeoned to death. Ahlbrand said he could not con­"When he is an hour late and "All three appeared to have died ceive what type of assailant or doesn't call, there was no doubt in 
Ir----··---------------------------------, from severe head injuries from a assailants could "brutally and sadisti­my mind that something grave had 
blunt instrument such as a bat," he cally slaughter these people, leaving happened." said. a two-year-old assaulted and injured 
I T~ II 
• HITMAN • The last time neighbors recalled
"This was a brutal, sadistic to wander around her house with
~ 0 seeing any members of the Osborne 
111 Pre-recorded Music Service for your 
slaughter. The word that comes to her family lying dead." 
family was about 7 p.m. Friday whenCl) Wedding-Reunion-Dance-Party mind is bizarre. This was a nice Engle said the girl was found in 
Ben Osborne was out cutting the
-g Anniversary. home in a nice area of town, and her room, playing with her toys. It lawn. One neighbor, Connie Phil­1U Dance non stop to original appeared she had gone to the
inside three people are dead -dead 
lips, said she spoke to Mrs. Osbornea. 
50's, 60'1. 70's and 80's hits for a number ofhours." refrigerator to get food, Engle said. 
about 9:30a.m. Friday.
(3 
i 
ReUOIUible rata The coroner said the slayings oc­The girl had been wandering curred sometime Friday evening. around the house and may have dis­"Everything seemed fine then. She 
THOMJEGIER 288-1354 Engle said there was no evidence turbed one or more of th-:: bodies didn't mention anything was ofa forced entry or any signs of rob-trying to awaken family members, wrong," she said. 
E ........
~l--~·-·-M·--··---···••••••••••••• J 
The Observer Tuesday, September 20, 1983 -page 4 

David Levy and discussed witb tbe President tbe forminx ofa new government by tbe Ltkud. See 
related story on page 5. 

'Earlybird' storm buries Rockies 
Associat~d Pr~ss 
An c:arlyhird snowstorm yester­day buried the: greenery of summer under a foot and a halfofsnow in the Rockies, blocking roads and causing hlat·kouts, while East Coast cities broiled in record heat. 
Hash llood!'. from up to I 0 inches of rain gusht:d neck deep across parts ofsouthern Texas. 
Two pt·opll· were kilkd in the crash of a light plane during a rainstorm Sunday night near Nacog­doches, Texa!'., and a 17-year-old 
continued/rom page I 
ll.S. advisers have gone: into the ruggedly hilly provinn·. dominated hy the brooding, 7,.200-foot Chinchontc:pc:c volcano, to hdp prc:parc the huntt·r units. But the Amt·rican!'. are undt·r strict ordc:rs to stay out ofcombat. 
The Salv;~dorans are coupling thc:st· new tactic:. with a program ­similar to tht· "pacification" plan of tht· latc: I<J60s in Vil'tnam -oftrain­ing local militiamen and rdmikling tht· provindalc:conomy. 
To a man, the almost onc: dozt·n 
li.S. military men intc:rvil'wed said morc: will have to bc: done -tht· Sal­vadoran army will have to be en­larged from 2'i,OOO men to about .~'i.OOO, the advisory force: of U.S. trainers will have: to he at lc:ast doubkd, and the United States will havt· to ship more aid dollars to the: Salvadorans. Many in the: U.S. Congress oppose: such a step-up in American involvement. 
Similarities hc:twc:c:n the: two wars arc dear. In both, Marxist-led guer­rilla f<>rcc:s rose up against what was perceived as corrupt, undemocratic governments. In both, Washington perceived the: upnsmg as en­gineered by foreign Communist powers. In both, the: U.S. strategy for victory included a land­redistribution program and dc:c­tions. 
But the differences -particularly in scale: -can he just as striking. 
The Salvadoran guerrilla force is estimated to number 6,000. The Viet Cong guerrillas numbered as many as 100,000. "The Salvadoran guerril­pregnant woman drowned when her car was swept into a rain­swollen stream in San Antonio. 

With the official end of summer still four days away, a fast-moving storm out of Canada spread heavy snow across much ofldaho <~nd.wes­tern Montana, where it was falling as fast as an inch an hour. With I 7 inches on the ground in south­central Montana and 14 inches in the suhurhs of Helc:na, the storm pushed eastward into the northern Plains and southward into Wyoming and Colorado. 
"This is about two weeks early," said Jack Daseler, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Cheyenne, Wyo., where record sub-freezing temperatures of 15 to 
25 degrees were expected over­night. "Something like this the first of October is not outrageous, but summer isn't even over yet." 
Backyard gardeners covered their plants as stores broke out snow shovel displays and street crews 
checked their snowplows in ad­vance of the: storm. Ranchers were advised to protect young and weak animals from the snow and wind. 

• • . El Salvador 

Water saftey course helps Notre Dame soph save child's life 
By STEVE GASTA 
News Staff 

While most students were enjoy· ing their first few weeks of summer basking in the sun, Notre Dame sophomoreJack Considine was busy saving a young boy's life. 
On June 2, Considine, a native of Savannah, Georgia, was working at the Savannah Golf Club swimming pool where he has been head lifeguard for the past four years. It was the first day of day camp and according to Considine there were 60 to 65 children swimming in the pool. 
" .. it was just a natural reaction'' 
A camp counselor who was in the pool suddenly pulled up five-year­old Michael Herring,Jr., who had ap­parently been under the water for a long time, and began callingfor Con­sidine who was standing about 25 feet away. 
"When she (the camp counselor) handed the boy to me he was all blue and really looked dead," said Con­sidine. 
"I laid the boy on the cement and checked for breathing and a pulse. It was apparent he wasn't breathing but he had a very faint pulse," said Considine. 
"Because he had a pulse I didn't do CPR (cardiopulmonary resuscita­tion) but went straight to mouth-to­motJtll'" '1-'esuscitation." Considine continued administering mouth-to­mouth for five to six minutes until the boy started breathing on his own. 
"It was about 30 to 40 minutes 
before the ambulance arrived. Then 
they stabilized Michael and took him 
to the hospital," continued Con­
sidine. Although Herring was not 
breathing when found, he suffered 
no brain damage. 

Considine has been a registered lifeguard for five years. He has not only Water Safety Instructor ( WSI) 
status, hut also has taken many other courses including advanced life­saving and multimedia first aid. It is to this training that Considine ac­credits his lifesaving accomplish­ment. 
"At first everything. just clicked. I had practiced so much on a dummy it was just a natural reaction," said Considine. Considine says he was not scared or nervous at the time of the incident, but admits later the thoughts of what could have hap­pened made him a little nervous. 
Even though the Red Cross is awarding Considine a commenda­tion for his effort, he does not con­sider himself a hero. "I was pleased with myself because I was able to use my training effectively, but mainly I was just doing my job," ex­plained Considine. Considine said his parents and family were very congratulatory and his mother baked him a batch of cookies, hut that was about all the thanks he ex­pected. He also said, "My friends joked about it and called me a hero, hut that cooled off after about a month." 
Considine plans to lifeguard again this summer. He does not feel he will be overly cautious or nervous, but he will be even more ready if the incident arises again. "I feel very confident and pleased with myself Although I don't want it to happen again, if it did I know I would he able to handle it," concluded Considine. 
• • • Student senate 
continued from page 1 

agenda to present to the Board of Trustees at the October meeting. Callaghan proposed some issues that might warrant their consideration such as a student center, not like 
Chautauqua  or  Senior  Bar,  hut  a  
gathering  place  serving  non­ 
alcoholic drinks.  

An experimental program is proposed at Senior Bar, opening it up one night a week to underclas­smen. Although this was tried last year, Callaghan thought that a night other than Sunday ought to he tried. 
The housing problem was also suggested as another issue to raise to the Board of Trustees. Callaghan backed a proposal for under­graduate townehouses like O'Hara­Grace Graduate Residences either on University property or long-term leases to build on non-University owned property. 
In other news, Student Union Director Dave Drouillard an­nounced that the Student llnion is sponsoring the rock group Kansas on Thursday, Nov. 3. 
Ia is not nearly as well-trained, well­equipped, tactically not nearly as protkicnt," said the major. 
Other differences give the American advisers reason for con­fidence: El Salvador's neighbors sup­port Washington; there is no North Vietnam sending its own troops into the war; El Salvador is smaller, more manageable. 
"I think one major difference," said an intdligence oft1cer, "is that we can understand the Salvadorans ' better than we ever understood the Vietnamese." 
Many Salvadoran officers have been trained in the United States, and U.S. advisers in the region in­clude many native Spanish speakers -Mexican-and Cuban-Americans, and Puerto Ricans. 
But perhaps the lesson learned best in Vietnam is the one that has kept U.S. combat troops out of the Central American conflict. 
Reagan says there are no plans to send American troops to El Salvador, (icn. Wallace H. Nutting noted in a recent interview after ending his tour as Southern Command chief 

VETERANS, YOUR PAST CAN BE WORTH $1,922 A YEAR. 
By joining the Army Reserve, you can make your military experience pay off in many ways. 
For instance, if you're an E-5 with four years' military experience, you'll earn an extra income of more than $1,922 a year, to start. 
You'll get your military benefits back. Like your PX privileges. And the opportunity to increase toward retirement. 
If you join the Reserve within 30 months of your discharge, you'll get your former rank back, too. 
But what we think you'll enjoy the most is leading and instructing new Reservists who want to train in your military speciality. 
If you have one weekend a month and two weeks a year to spare, why not cash in your past? Call us at the number below. Or stop by. 
SGT Jones 234·4187 
Call Collect 

ARMY RESERVE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 


SAVE$$$ 
2.5 cubicDormitory Refrig. 
$35.00for School Year LimitedQuantities 
BURNS RENT-ALLS INC. 
332 W. Mishawaka Ave. Mishawaka, IN 
259-2833 

The Observer Tuesday, September 20, 1983-page 5 




Soviet Union would repeat attack on airliner, ND professor says 
B) KEITH HARRISON the United States as a sign of military News Staff weakness. It is for this reason that Brinkley beleives the Soviets would The Soviet Union would repeat welcome another chance to show 
the destruction of an airliner if the their strength. 
same situation rose again, said Dr. Brinkley believes that unilateral 
George Brinkley, director of Soviet disarmament is "a bad mistake." The 
and East European Studies at Notre Soviets are "extremely vulnerable to 
Dame. temptation," he said. Ifthe U.S. were 
Brinkley believes the decision to to do away with a large portion of 
destroy the Korean airliner was their nuclear weapons, Brinkley 
made at the last minute. Soviet said, the Soviets would be more in· 
military officers had been dined than usual to partake in acts of 
reprimanded recently for being too military agression. 
soft on cases similar to the Korean Dr. Brinkley's lecture was 
airliner incident, in which foreign sponsored by Ground Zero, an or­
planes violate Soviet airspace. ganization designed to educate the 
The airliner apparently flew over student body on nuclear weapons Soviet airspace for two hours before issues. Ground Zero will be showing it was attacked Brinkley believes a videotape on nuclear war this the Soviets now fear that their Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Center for hesitance to respond may be seen by Social Concerns. 

Shamir almost certain to succeed Begin after NRP gives support 
Associated Press tary majority. inviting Labor to join him in a 
Although the NRP has only six of "national unity" government. Miss America 1984 Vanessa Williams of Millwood, 
JERUSALEM -Foreign Min-the 120 seats in the Knesset, the Is­Shamir .said he would do so but N.Y. smiles for the camera as she appears on NBC's Today Show ister Yitzhak ~hamir appeared al­raeli parliament, it has long held the has made no overtures to the yesterday. She is sitting in front ofa photo taken ofher Saturday most certain to succeed Prime balance of power because of the in­Laborites. The Labor Party has not nightas the anouncement was made thatshehad won thepageant. Minister Menachem Begin after the ability of the two major factions -said how it would respond to an in­National Religious Party, a key mem­the conservative Likud and socialist vitation. ber of Begin's coalition, announced Laborites -to win a majority. In a meeting with Herzog Sunday, 

Soviets question U.S. 
yesterday it supported Shamir. Herzog today was to complete Shamir's Likud bloc argued that it al­The NRP was one of four parties consultations with all parties and ready had an assured majority and that sent delegations to President then designate the man considered he should be designated. But the 

fitness to host 
Chaim Herzog to state their choice to have the best chance offorming a Labor Party, meeting Herzog the 
for the premiership. Deputy Foreign government. His choice will have 21 same day, also claimed the 
Minister Yehuda Ben-Meir said the days to form a coalition and can get a prerogative because it is the largest 

the United Nations 
entire delegation expressed support 21-day extension if he shows the faction in the Knesset, outnumber­
forShamir. president he is on the way to for­ing Likud 50 seats to 46. Associated Press lasts for about three months. 
NRP leader Yosef Burg, Begin's in­ming a majority. Labor claimed it could form a Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. terior minister, told reporters his After Begin on Aug. 28 announced coalition of70-80 Knesset members UNITED NATIONS-The Soviet Gromyko has headed the Soviet as­party "attaches the utmost impor­his decision to resign, his Herut but did not name them. It is banking Union yesterday questioned the fit­sembly delegation annually since tance to the speed with which a new Party elected Shamir to succeed on Likud allies or members who are ness of the U.S. to host the United 1957. But Gromyko's government government is to be formed." He him, and he got signed endorse­disenchanted with Begin's Nations, and the American delegate scrapped his trip this year because 
replied that the United States will
said he believed it would take the ments from all the parties in t Begin's economic policies, the Lebanese the governors of New jersey and 
opposition Labor Party too long to coalition. But six of the Knesset war and his campaign to increase the not stand in the way if the member­New York, upset over the Soviet 
agree on the political payoffs re­members who supported him condi­Jewish population of the occupied ship wants to move the headquar­destruction of a South Korean jet­
quired to put together a parliamen-tioned their endorsement on his West Bank of the Jordan River. ters. liner Sept. I with the loss of 269 
"The members ofthe U.S. Mission . lives, have forbidden Gromyko's 
will be down at the docks waving plane to land at NewYorkor Newark 
you farewell as you sail into the sun­international airports. The facilities 
set," Charles M. Lichenstein told are closest to the U.N. headquarters 
foreign colleagues on the U.N. Host in New York. 
Country Relations Committee on Yakovlev charged that the U.S. 
Nazis intended to create 'Museum 

of the Extinct Race' after conquest 
the eve of the 38th annual General government and press were wagingAssociated Press utensils -arrived in Prague, where ing Exhibition Service. 
Assembly session. a coordinated propaganda campaign
(he jewish curators labored to 
At a news conference Monday, of­"We will put no impediments in against his country. He said the case W ASIIINGTON -The Nazis catalog them, hoping to preserve 
ficials told the story behind the your way." of "the Korean airliner is not yetintended to create a "Museum ofthe relics of a culture that they, too, collection. 
The United States has been the clear. To put labels on it would he Extinct Race" after their conquest of thought was doomed. "Only paradoxically did the Nazis United Nations' host since 1945 and premature."
Europe, so they ordered the eight After 15 years of negotiations, the become the overseers of a project contributes a quarter of its annual 
The U.N. Secretariat said yester­workers ofthe State jewish Museum Czech government has agreed to al­that resulted in one of the world's budget ofabout S750 million. day that 38 heads of state and in Prague to assemble a vast collec­low about 350 of those relics to go greatest collections ofjudaica," said · Lichenstein was responding to government had sent word theytion of the cultural heritage of the on display outside of Prague for the project director Anna Cohn. remarks by Igor Yakovlev, a Soviet would attend the assembly's
jews. first time. "The germ ofthat project began in U.N. mission delegate, who had just opening session today. The number As the Germans systematically The exhibition will visit Washing­
1940, when Hitler ordered the crea­accused American authorities of is second only to the 42 at the 1970 sent jews to concentration camps, ton, Miami Beach, Fla., New York, tion in Frankfurt ofsomething called "actions which have made it impos­session, which celebrated the 25th trains carrying artifacts of jewish San Diego, Detroit and Hartford, the Hohe Schule, or Academy, that sible for the head of the Soviet anniversary ofthe U.N. charter. 
culture '-religious items and Conn. in a 22-month tour arranged was to be the center ofNazi doctrine delegation to come take part" in the Despite Gromyko's absence,
secular, prayer scrolls and kitchen by the Smithsonian Institute Travel-and education." General Assembly session, which heads of state of two Soviet-allied 



Interested in Taking a Class in Ballroom Dancing? 
Wednesday, September 21, will be the first lesson ofa five week ballroom dance class that will be held on Saint Mary's Campus in the REGINA HALL BASEMENT from 6:30-8:00 p.m. 
11lis class will be taught by Ray Sexton from Indianopolis and total cost is only $25 for five weeks. 
Ifyou would like to join this class, you can register at the first lesson. 
This offer is limited to Notre Dame and SaintMary's Students Only. 
We Want You! 
-----Counseline -----­
The Counseling and Psychological Services Center here at Notre Dame is· looking for vol­unteers to work on our Counseline. a free confidential telephone service offering profes­sionally taped materials covering a variety m student concerns. issues. and everyday prob­lems_ 
If you are interested in volunteering for 
Counseline, please call our Center at: 
239-7336 

Eastern European countries will at­tend -Pal Losonczi of Hungary and Henrykjablonski of Poland. Also ex­pected are two Third World leftist leaders President Mengistua Haile Mariam of Ethiopia and Desi Bouterse ofSurinam. 
Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi will report on the non­aligned summit held in New Delhi last March. Most ofthe heads ofstate and government expected at the General Assembly session took part in that summit. 
President Reagan, who attended the assembly's disarmament special session in 1981, will be the first speaker in the three-week annual policy debate opening next Monday. 
lmre Hollai of Hungary. president of the 1982 General Assembly, will open the 1983 session this after­noon, and the assembly will vote on a new president. The candidates are Davidson Hepburn, U.N. ambas­sador from the Bahamas, and Jorge Enrique Jllueca, vice president of Panama. 




@Science 
Tuesday, September 20, 1983 -page 6 

Method found for detecting, preventing acid rain damage 
By MARY CONNOLLY under ultraviolet light. many about his work with applied at certain concentrations. Acid rain is a major factor in the Scienct' lf1riler The detection of minerals with ultraviolet luminescence. He feels However, marhle appears to he unaf. weathering of huilding materials fluorescent dyes has applications in that fluorescent dyes may he useful fected hy the discoloration prohlcm. today. Acid rain is caused when sub­Detection and correction of the studying the weathering of building tools in order to study weathering Winkler is currently testing his stances such as carhon monoxide dln:ts of weathering on natural materiab. One can detect foreign pattcrns. The effects of weathering solution on the Field Museum in and sulfates are released into the at­building matniab is the object of minerals which weren't originally agents such as acid rain may he more Chicago. Several years ago concern mosphere. Such suhstances tend to fl'Sl'arch hdng dont· hy Erhard present in a stone. The presence and easily studied using this technique. was raised over the crumhling remain in the atmosphere until it Winkkr, profc:ssor of Earth Sciences location of these foreign minerals Many of the foreign minerals that marhle columns at the Museum's rains. Then these suhstances react at Notrl· Dame. can reveal weathering patterns. fluoresce arc indicators of the ef­south entrance. Some of the with the rain water to form acidic 
Thl· tirst aspl'l't of hb research in­Winkler has used fluorescent dyes fects ofacid rain. museum staff had heard ahout solutions. volve~ thl· usc of tluorc~cent dyes to to examine the weathering on the The other aspect of Winkler's Winkler's work and requested his Volcanic erruptions are one detect the mineral content within a Courthouse in downtown South research involves strengthening al­aid in preserving the weathered plentiful and natural source of the stone. A~ olkn happl·ns in sckntitic llend. The limestone building is ready weathered building materials. marhle. ingredients needed to form acid 
rt·se;Jrch. Winkkr found this ap­rain. Volcanic er uptions have been
showing outward signs of weather­He has developed a solution in his Two years ago he applied his silica plication of tluorl-~l-enn· when he ing. lah which appears to rcccmcnt or solution to a secton of one of the occuring throughout the Earth's trinl to ust· the techni4ue for ;moth­In ordinary light the courthouse reinforce crumhling marble, lime­crumbling columns. The treated entire history. However, acid rain l'f purpose. stone appears to be very slightly stone, and sandstone. section seems to be holding up very has hccn getting a lot of attention 
"I originally plannnl to usc hleachl·d in some areas, but under Winkler explains, "You can well, and have shown very little fur­recently hccause it seems that the tluore~ccnt dyes to indicate the ultraviolet light, the same area glows strengthen crumbling sandstone ther deterioration, compared with acid character of rain is becoming poro~ity of various stone samples. brightly. This tluorescence indi­where the cementing material be­the untreated marble. more pronounced. hut tiJUnd that thb was not po~­cated the presence of hidden salt tween the sand grains is hccoming Th~ Field Museum would even­
One cause ofthis is believed to he 

sihlc," ~aid Winkkr. Porosity is a (Sodium Chloride) since sodium is lost through the effects of weather­tually like to huild up the marble increased industrialization and pol­measure of the pen:cntage of the one of the minerals that glows when ing like acid rain." The same process columns to their original profile. 
lution. Factories and automohilcs volume of a rock's pore~ to its total treated with fluorescent dye. The is effective with marhlc and lime­This would involve the develop­are prime sources of the necessary

volumt·. Instead he noticed that the presence of salt in the sample stone as well. ment of an artificial marhle, an idea ingredients ofacid rain. Figures indi­fluorescent dye made mineral ca­showed the location and the extent Winkler's silica solution is easy to that Winkler thinks may be possihle 
cate that since the 1950's rain has tions (positively char~cd species) of weathering in the stone. produce and is non-toxic. He es­in the future. However, he has just hecome approximately ten times

such as calcium. ma~nesium, potas­Winkler recently spoke at an in­timates it only costs fifty cents a gal­started thinking about such pos­more acidic.
sium. phosphorus, and sodium glow ternational symposium in West Ger-lon to make in his lab. But his sibilities, and says that nothing has solution only strengthens certain yet been developed. Winkler is presently conductin~ natural huilding materials, and has His research has shown that stone his research under two grants. He no strenghthening effect on man­treated with his silica solution is has a grant from Western

Freshmen to evaluate 
made materials such as brick and ce­eroded more by distilled water than Waterproofing and a grant from the ment. it is by acidic solutions. This is sig­Skaggs' Foundation. These grants are He has also found that his solution nificant since the problem of acid for the purpose of studying the ef­


videodisc technology 
discolors some samples when rain seems to he increasing. fects ofweathering quantitatively. 
By KAREN INGWERSEN use expensive equipment without Science Writer ever exposing them to the actual equipment. 
Deep in the haseml·nt of the Miller hl"lieves that Notre Dame is Fitzpatrick llall of Engineering. one of the leaders in the dcvelop­Sl'\Tn ~tudents and two profcs~o.-~ ml·nt of videodisc technology. labor over a rl"sl·arch projl'(.'t that Nebraska and Utah are the only could ITvolutionize l·ducation as it other univl·rsities in the country i.~ known today. that art· working with videodiscs. 
Alvin Milkr. proks~or of metal­Milkr says Notre Dame hopes to lurgical engim·ning. and his as­"carve out a little area of expertise" sociate. John l.uu:y. an· dcn·loping in videodisc technology. an interactivt· vidt·mlisl· system for In addition, Notre Dame and MIT usc in the freshmen engineering are the only universities in the cour~l'. E<; 120. Miller hdieves that country in possession of a rewrite the dis1.· which they are working on machine which allows thcm to make will he the h>rcrunncr of an entirely their own videodiscs. Each new form ofeducation. videodisc has 60,000 frames which 
Milkr li:ds that the tremendou~ must he created one frame at a time. demand for <.·ontinuing education Because Notre Dame is creating which is caused by the numerous their disc here on the campus, the career changes thl· averagl· person students can offer input ahout the goe~ through will bring ahout an usefulness of individual sections of l·ducational revolution. lk believes the disc. the videodist· will he an important Miller hopes to show his work to part of this revolution. the students in this year's class in or­
Onl· of the hl·ncfits that Milkr der to determine the effect of the li:els sl'ls vic.lo:mliscs apart from lessons. Then the sections can be other educ1tional do:vices is that rewritten to make them into more they arl· truly individualized teach­cfli:ctive teaching wols without the ing tools. Thl· videodisc tl·aches the trem~ndous expense of having a ~tudent pl·rsonally. If they do not un­new master disc made. derstand the k~~on, it can he Miller and Lucey hope that the revil'wnl at the touch of a button. videodisc will enahle them to reach Through this approad1 the student their goal of teaching freshmen en­can karn at his own pace. lie can gineers how to use computers and drill himsdf over sections where he how to make computers a tool that is unsure of hi~ knowledge. or he can works f(>r them. Next fall the fresh­

No tips, please 

skip through sections which he un­men engineers will he learning the dt·rstand~. technologies of the future through The precision ofmodern robotics is demonstrated performance was part ofa robotics show held in What makes the videodisc even the usc of the educational means of hy the ability ofa robot arm to pour drinks. The Tokyo last week. 

more individualized b the fact that it tomorrow. 
i~ truly intnactive. Through the u~l· of touch-st·nsitivc screens. the stu­dent will ht· able to communicate his answl·r to the videodisc system itself. When a student touches the screen. he causes a ~hort circuit be­tween the two plastic grids that make up the touch-sensitive screen. This enables the syste-m to "feel" where the student has touched the screen. 
Furthermore, the videodisc is a random-access machine which al­lows the student to skip to any part of the disc or any lesson that he wants in less than one second. 
Miller says that practical uses for these advances arc already hcing researched hy the military for use in repairing equipment while in the field. Other examples of practical uses include home instruction of welding or tc:1chin~ students how to 

I IRELAND PROGRAM I St. Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland IMPORTANT MEETING Carroll Hall -Madeleva Building Saint Mary's Campus 

Wednesday, September 21, 1983 6:30pm 
Slides will be shown and information given by students who were at St. Patrick's in past years. 
planning to attend LAW SCHOOL 
Professor Thomas Marullo will hold a 2-part Personal Statement Writing Workshop in the Memorial Ubrarr.. Auditorium. 
MONDAY, SEPT. 19, 7:15p.m. TUESDAY, SEPT. 20, 7:00p.m. Each session will last approximately two hours. Attendance is mandatory. 
Sponsored by tbeNotre Dame Pre-Law Socetty 


Tuesday, September 20, 1983-page 7




View.eoint 
The "peace-keeping" lessons of Lebanon 
Four American soldiers have died in Lebanon and 20 have been wounded, therefore let's get the rest out. That is the zany logic coming out of Rep. Clarence Long (D· Md.) and other innocents still pursuing G~orge Washin2ton's sensible dream (at the;, 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 
time) of"no foreign entanglements." 
Clearly we are entangled with the politics, economics. and religious ethics of the Middle East, willy-nilly. The only question is how the United States can best extricate itself while helping that hapless huddle of peoples to get off each other's backs and go about their daily lives more peacefully. 
How can President Reagan convince his growing array ofcongressional critics that the entry of American naval batteries into the fighting doesn't make it a "war" within the meaning ofthe War Powers Act? 
To call the role of the Americans a "peace­keeping" one is something of a semantic dodge. They didn't and don't intend to get in· to the killing and dying, but they are drawn in anyway by the nature ofthe beast. Since there is no peace in Lebanon f'Jr "peace-keeping" forces to keep, they are in reality filling a 
military brokerage role -trying to use the power of persuasion and the persuasion of power to get the warring factions to stop planting dynamite and lobbing shells at each other, and to join in forming a Lebanese nation that doesn't yet exist under the Gemayel government. 
But the American Marines and Naval guns can be no more effective than the political clarity of the power brokers behind them in Washington. And that, alas, has been ques­tionable. 
There is a finality about policy blunders as there is about death. After the first death, wrote Dylan Thomas, there is no other. It is a sad law of history that after the first decisive policy blunder the options in foreign policy get woefully limited. 
The Israelis discovered this in starting an invasion of Lebanon they couldn't finish. The Americans also took on a messy military and political job which they too will find hard to 
.firi'i,sh -mainly because they failed to under­stand from the start that it is the Syrians who are behind the Palestinian Left and the Druze and Shiite Muslim attacks on the Lebanese government. 
Washington focused on the Israelis and got them to stop shooting and accept a ceasefire, which enabled the Syrians to strengthen their hold and the Russians to restore and redouble the Syrian missiles which the Israelis had knocked out. It is this political blunder which has led to the situation ofthe Marines as sitting 


ducks for  death trained  at  them from  the  
Shouf,  where  Syria's  Druze  allies  are  
entrenched.  

Thus the Americans all but lost their non­war in Lebanon even before the Marines and the Navy came. 
There is a debate in Washington whether the killings in Lebanon flow from a religious and ideological civil war or whether they flow from a foreign power -Syria. Obviously, both are mixed together. But the prudent and healthy thing now is to test the proposition that the Syrians are the key by training all of America's diplomatic, economic, financial and political guns on them. 
Once the U.S. is clear about who tbe enemy is, the initial blunder may just possibly be retrieved 
(c) 1983, Los An11eles Times 8!1~ 




The gift of youth 
The gift ofyouth is all too often measured in Curiosity and inquisitiveness are two ofthe of age. We cannot become mentally stagnant. urges its students to unconsciously accept the age a.~ opposed to the amount of enthusiasm, most easily observed trademarks of youth. For it is this apathetic style that leads to the ways ofthe existing status quo, it has failed in desire, curiosity and inquisitiveness present Constantly asking 'why?' and 'how?' and aging of the mind. its attempt to create strong, open-minded in­in us. Youth does not end when we graduate questioning the values and standards pressed We, as college students, are now at the dividuals to perpetuate our society. upon us. in everyday life allows us to examine point in our lives where our youthfulness and Every one ofus has been blessed with youth
T. Burke our own ideals and morals and confidently maturity can be extremely effective. Our and must not let it slip away. We must con­evaluate them. Not that we should be con­voices are beginning to be heard since we tinue to let our curiosity roam and our ques· Just a thought stantly altering our moral standards, but we now can present arguments in a confident and tions flow freely, to challenge what we feel 
should always understand the reasons govern­positive manner. And ofcourse, our votes are unrighteous. Through our words and actions from college or when we get a 'real' job, nor is ing our thoughts and actions. now counted. we can carry out our goals. We must not allow it over when our bodies begin to age. Youth is Desire and enthusiasm are equally repre­Colleges and universities throughout the our minds the chance to lose their creative a prize for those who wish to behold it. A sentative ofa youthful frame ofmind. A desire country and world play a major role i,ni>ring· capacity and grow old. Keep a youthful frame prize, in effect, which allows us to keep our for justification, understanding and peace of ing out the youth in all of us. These institu­ofmind because it does matter. lines of sight wide open and sprout oppor· mind, and the enthusiasm to act accordingly tions should urge their students·to openly and tunity to create and accept change. Youth is a to fulfill these needs are characteristics each honestly challenge what is believed unjust. Ifa Tom Burke is a senior majoring in mechani­matter ofmind. and every one ofus should possess, regardless university does not inbreed this attitude, and cal engineering from Buffalo, New York. 
P. 0. BoxQ 
Korean incident calls for reflection 
Dear Editor: 
In his letter to the editor (published on Sept. 15). Kenneth Kemp invite; me to further explain my action and my letter to the editor (published on Sept. 12). 
Mr. Kemp, I did not say that my letter of protest, as you chose to call it. was justified while the sign Soviet Uninn -Killer ofIn­nocent People was not. Both the sign and my letter are justified and justifiable. Of course, one could argue over the term "justified." In my letter l went beyond the content of the sign, in that I commented on a prevalent at­titude which has captured the American public (and the people ofother countries too) for the past two weeks. My point was to divert the energy spent hurling abuse at the Soviet Union into a more reflectory mood, which would allow us to deal with the murder that we witnessed on a rational level. Mike McClory attempted to do just that although I think -as I will outline below -he did not do a good job at it. 
When I found the piece of cardboard in 
front of the Administration Building it was partly torn up and lay abandoned (this is why I referred to environmental reasons in my let· ter) and I decided to throw it into a trashcan rather than leave it lying there. Then I started making inferences from the sign's statement and the USSR Murderers statement and all other comments we had heard thus far to con· elude that the majority of American people did not sincerely mourn the death of the airplane passengers. I did not say that it is un­christian for Americans to protest the killing. Apparently Mr. Kemp read something into my letter which I did not say! Likewise I do not understand his allusion to my nationality: I will always try to correct what I perceive to be wrong regardless ofwhere I live. When I was in Southern Africa I protested against the wrongs J perceived in Southern Africa, now that I happen to live in the United States I try to point to the wrongs I perceive in the United States. Thus, it is not a question of nationality but rather a question ofwhat is right and what is wrong. 

Mike McClory states that "some students have pointed fingers towards Moscow and accused them of various crimes, while other students with their noses buried in Bibles (that's me, I suppose, although I didn't know that I have more than one nose) have urged only the sinless to throw the first stone." McClory suggests that both kinds of students haven't really thought through the issue, and therefore he will do it for us. Mr. McClory, it is not pointless, as you suggest, to point out that a Soviet pilot clid kill people (and it is not pointless to demonstrate against the killing), and likewise it is not pointless to point out that such an action should help us reflect upon our own deeds. 
Let me reverse Mike McClory's question: doeshe make a point? As far as I am can tell, no. McCio y displays a deplorable attitude: "Anyone who gets too caught up in a discus­sion ofinternational politics needs a lesson in the ba.~ic facts oflife," he says. Which "facts of life"? McClory continues: "There are little people and there are governments." I assume 
this means that Mr.McCiory has abandoned any hope of helping to exercise democratic control over one's government. It is a fatalistic viewpoint to think that we, the "little people," can do nothing about our own government. We can! While Mike McClory thinks that a proper response to the Soviet's action is to stay out of politics, my suggestion would be ·toget involved in politi.cs. Getting involved in political issues does not mean a one-sided in­
volvement. 
]urgen Brauer 
Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the dai~y constraints of the page. Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number, and signature ofthe author. Initials andpseudo­nyms are unacceptable. Reproductions, car. bon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. Ali letters are subject to editing and become the property of The Observer. 

Department Managers 

========Ihe_QbsenE=======!~!!~!~~e~~~~~ ..........David Dziedzic 
Hox Q. Notre Oame, IN 46556 ( 2 /'}) 239· 5303 Managing Editor ...... , ...... Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ............... Daniel O'Hare 
The Ohserr•er is the imkpendent newspaper published by the students of the Uni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller.... ................... Alex Szilvas versity of Notre Dame tlu Lac anti Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen the poliues of th<: atlministration of eith<:r institution. The news is reported as at:· News Editor . ................. ~ark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzawn: i..a Croix <:uratd~· anti as ohjectivdy as possibk. l nsigned edit~>rials represent tb<: opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto majority ofth<: Editorial Board. Commentaries.let{ers. anti the Inside Column present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamiltoc System Manager ............... Kevin Williams the vkws ofthdr authors. Column space is available to all m·embers ofthe community. Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower and the free expn:ssion ofvarying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
)ports Editor ....... :........ .\lichael Sullivan 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Founded November 3, 1966 
-





Sports Briefs 
The ND-SMC Equestrian Club is holding a 
general meeting for all membt•rs in room 2-D of LaFortune at 7 p.m. tonight. All are welcome. Anyone with questions should call Maureen Babis at 285-8004. -The Observer 
All Saint Mary's students who are interested in competitive swimming and diving should come to a meeting tonight at 10 p.m. in the lounge in Regina that overlooks the pool. -The Observer 
Allen Pinkett and Tony Furjanic will be 
tonight's featured guests on WSND-AM 64's hour-long show, Speak­ing of Sports. The program begins at 10 p.m. and listeners with any questions or comments during the show may call in at 239-6400. ­
The Observer 

The Notre Dame Women's GoHteam will 
have a mandatory meeting at 7 p.m. tomorrow in Corby Hall. Anyone who cannot attend should calljulie at 7921. -The Observer 
Lake Michigan College has forfeited its Septem­ber 21st women's volleyball match with Notre Dame. The volleyball team's next match is September 28 vs. Wisconsin-Milwaukee in the ACC Pit. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Biking Cluband prospective mem­bers will meet for their first outing on Sunday, September 25 at 2 
p.m. in the Lyons basketball court area. This is the preliminary ride for their upcoming trip to Warren Dunes on Saturday, October I. There will be a short meeting following Sunday's ride. Anyone with questions should contact Frank Voegele at 3504 or Laura Sizelove at 8051. Everyone is welcome. -The Obsen1er 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will be meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Room 20 of Hayes-Healy. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team will host 
Grace College tomorrow night at 6 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's soccer teamtakes on Goshen 
College tomorrow night at 6 p.m. on Madaleva Field. -TheObserver 
Tuesday, September 20, 1983 -page 8 

NV A Tennis Pairings 
All matches must be played and re~rted to the MIXED DOUBLES iVA off1ce by Wednesday, September 21. 
Men'a Open Tennis Reid-Gonzales (277-7651) v. Gee-Jones (1022) Cogan (8057) v. Logan (1877) Marten-Morrow (6840) v. bye Runger (1432) v. M. McCabe Moore·O'Bryan (7870) v. bye Pujals (8653) v. Ralph (1903) Reyes-Schwebel (1372) v. bye Bulen (8394) v. Boulet (8433) Gotuaco· Villalon (3329) v. Niii-Fay ( 1268) Arellano (1481) v. Miller (1107) Reusch-Carel (1073) v. Callis-O'Grady (1288) Cool<e (3316) v. Collins (8919) Clifford-Locke (8171) v. Kelly-Teal (1073) Calloway (1527) v. Muyres (1775) Sternrtcke-Dolan (7891) v. Gardiner-Sloane (8846) Powers (1800) v. Welsey (6981) Huebi-Campbell (3238) v. Russell-Russell (2895) Bery (1177) v. Marchaunz (1652) Rade-McEiroy (1504) V. Jacoby-PICO (2968) Poirier (1471) v. Cierzniak (1669) lmmonen-lmmonen (3091) v. Cooke-Schmell (3316) lmmonen (3091) v. Goldner (6937) Thompson-Rodgers (6965) v. Grojean-Molinsky Mischke (4521) v. Curis (7743) (1248) Gee (1022) v. Chou (3258) Goulet-Duvet (277-7563) v. Para1so-Dougherty O'Brien (1692) v. Antonini (1633) (1271) We1mho~ (8921) v. Soergel (1575) KlisarHynch (1898) v. Stavetski-Stephen (8895) Simone (3122) v. Griffin (1178) Waii-Hageman (1195) v. Ba1ley-Cons1dlne (3842) James (1530) v. Deeter (1963) Reardan-Boyle (8668) v. McGinn-Tomkow1tz (8173) Walker (1723) v. Donahue (1424) Curtis-Dalton (7443) v. Taneff-Kohlhass (1129) Reidy (9070) v. Harman (1062) Sobczak-Delapena (1639) v. Benner-Zalud (1474) Duncan (1103) v. Kelleher (8943) Szatkowski-Szat (8852) v. Swiecish (277-4181) Wall (1195) v. Reyes (1372) Olive-Bailey (1596) v. Coin-Schaffer (6803) lsiwaka (8944) v. Foley (1725) Cleveland·Gailus (4514) v. Farley-Cam&rcn (8191) Hayes (1195) v. Knipe (8917) Kelly-Hofbauer (1805) v. Callaway-Ritchie (1527) Richardson (277-1405) v. Weigel (3171) Gansh1rt-Cortes (1785) v. O'Brien-Aime1da (1692) 
Sharp (3344) v. Hanna (3106) Lavo1e-Kelly (8622) v. Chandoer-Berestka (7850) Rench (1073) v. Tuel (1478) Bond-Dimello (1027) v. Meager-Greene (234-9914) Shafer (1219) v. Grunewald (6602) Krenzer-Eversoll (8016) v. Deeter-Lechner (1983) Defrances (1139) v. Goulet (7563) Randaii-Rosenstre (3417) v. Kaelin-Rowbury ( 1416) Grojean (1248) v. Hardiman (1223) Defeo-Deren (234-8498) v. Sacre-Bery (1177) 
Runger-Schm1d (1432) v. bye Players whose names do not appear have received a Bosco-Upda v. bye bye. Welters-Collins (3334) v. bye 
Poiner·Ukra1ne (1471) v. bye 


Standings 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE East East 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB Baltimore 92 56 .622 -Ph1ladelph1a 80 70 .533 -DetrOit 85 64 .570 7.5 Montreat 78 72 .520 2 New York 83 66 .557 9.5 P1Hsburgh 78 72 .520 2 Toronto 82 69 .543 11.5 St. Louis 73 77 .487 7 Milwaukee 79 71 .527 14 Ch1cago 67 63 .447 13 Boston 73 78 .483 20.5 New York 82 88 .413 18 Cleveland 86 83 .443 26.5 West 
West Los Angeles 86 64 .573 ­
X-Chicago 89 61 .593 -Atlanta 81 67 .547 4 Kansas City 73 76 .490 15.5 Houston 78 71 .523 7.5 Texas 71 79 .473 18 SanD1ego 76 74 .507 10 Oakland 69 82 .457 20.5 San Francisco 71 79 .473 15 Minnesota 65 85 .433 24 Cincinnati 68 81 .456 17.5 
California 65 85 .433 24 SeaHie 56 93 .376 32.5 Yesterday'a Reaulta X-clinched division title rn~ ..1 ..,,r New Vorl< 5, PiHsburgh 4 Yesterday's Results Philadelphia 7, Chicago 6 Montreal 3·6, St. Louis 0-3 Boston 5, New York 3 Los Angeles 9, Houston 2 
SeaHie 9, Toronto 6 San Diego 4, San Franc1sco 2 Minnesota 7, Chicago 5 Banimore 8. Milwaukee 7 11 innings 
Kansas City 8-7, Calilorma 4-6 
The Observer Lafortune ofice accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per

Classifieds seven characters, per day. 
NOTICES  ~F_O_R_RE_N_T~~~~_FO_R_S_A_LE~  HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2845084 DESPERATELY NEED YOUR MSU  EATING DISORDERS (Bulimia Ito Anorexia Nervoaa) disrupt thousands of Uvea each year. The Counseling Ito Psychological Services Center of  THE FIRST GENERAL MEETING FOR F.L.O.C. (FARM LABOR ORGANIZING COMMinEE) WILL BE HELD THIS THURS., SEPT. 22 AT 7·00 PM IN THE  
GA'SI CALL MIKE at 1627  Notre Dame will be conducting a 10­ CENTER  FOR  SOCIAL  CONCERNS.  
TYPING AVAILABLE· 26~-4082. ACCENT Your Understanding LOST/FOUND LOST-NO rmg w1th 1011lals P.R. M. Dark purple stone set 1n gold. Call Paul at 239­5313, or at 277-4851. $40 reward. no questtons asked. LOST Keys on digital watch cha1n. 11 found, call Sheila at 284-5433. Lost 1n area ot Flanner-Grace mght of Sat .. Sept. 3.  NEEDED ONE FEMALE ROOMMATE WITH EXCELLENT STEREO TO SHARE TOWNHOUSE. CALL 272-5139 FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO ND 2773804 WANTED WANTED· 26" 3-speed bike. mens or womens; call272·8229 after 5. HELPIII NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL PAY $$$.CALL BRENDAN 7791 WANTED ND·USC fix. Call 716·377· 7075 evemngs 6·10 p.m.  Underwood/OI1veH1 typewnter. 1976 but has only 2 years use,$80.00 277-2543 FOR SALE· G. E. 14"COLOR T.V.. MAR­TIN D-18 GUITAR WITH CASE, ETRRR STEREO SPEAKERS. ZENITH BINOCULARS, 2 PAIR SNOWSHOES, STEREO HEADPHONES. CALL DAVE AT 272·0387. Charm1ng Cape Cod close to N.D. at 1501 East Madison in N.E. 2 B.A. panneled bsmt. family room or studio. 2 baths, fenced yard. Ideal for professional couple. Priced to sell at $35,500.00 Forbes/ Vaner 287-7293 Evenings 291­0810 FOR SALE 1 REFRIG EXCELLANT CONDITION. SAVE $ AND BUY ONE FOR FOUR YEARS. 234-0302.  TICKETS WANTED FOR Southern 'cAL, TOP dollar pa1d call; 287 ·6277 HOWIE Need 10 G.A.'s to the U.S. C. game. Will pay any amount tor tickets. They need not be together. P T lease call Dan at 1779. Willing to trade 5 (FIVE) Pin tickets for ONLY 4 (FOUR) USC tickets. Call 1723 Ask tor Kev. USC-ND t1x wanted. Paying most. (312) 246-4650. NEED 3 USC TICKETS PLEASE CALL RICARDO 277-0583 MUST HAVE USC TIX--MONEY NO OBJECT--NEED UP TO SIX GAS. CALL CHRIS AT 234· 7279 ANYTIME.  week structured group for persona with these disorders. For Informa­tion/registration. contact Dr. Dan1el Rybicki at 239-7336. LIMITED ENROLL· MENT. NEEDS$$? Uke a challenge? Turn your spare time 1nto money. Groups or individuals needed to promote college vacation tours. For more tnformatton call· (414) 781-0455 or write Des1gners on Travel 4025 n. 124th St. Brookfield, Wise. 53005 MULTIMILLIONAIRE FRIEND WILL PAY MULTI-DOLLARS FOR 4-6 TICK· ETS TO MSU OR USC. CALL BILL AT x1763.  ALL ARE WARMLY WELCOME. ACCENT Your Interests PSYCH MAJORS AND INTERESTED NON-MAJORS -­Important meet1ng tomght at 7 in Haggar Aud. NewsleHer, Counsehne, and graduate 1nfo. Be there or be schizoohren1cl LADIES OF COLUMBUS meeting Wed­nesday mght at 7 30pm at the K of C build­Ing Flanner Hall is sponsoring a Glrla Who Blow Notre Dame Girts Away Calander Any Interested Jun1or High School Teach· ers or CaHie Rustlers should send their entnes to Room 101 Flanner tmmedtately.  
FOUND One Chemistry 115L Lab Card 1n Huddle Call John at 174710 claim  Any ND/SMC student Interested 1n shoot· 1ng pool or starting a club. call284·5341.  Couch. ch81r, T.V., tor sale. CHEAP! 272­3605.  NEED USC GA'S NOW--CALL CHRIS AT234·7279  I need 1 student t1cket tor M1ch. State. Call M1ke x6770. Thank-you.  Desperate isn't the word, J NEED. really NEEQ a ticket to the Pin game. I'm not particular, I'll take a student or GA.  
FOUND TAN NYLON CLIP-ON CASE W/2 PIPES & AN EMPTY 35mm FILM BOX IN PARKING LOST ACROSS FROM L BRARY PICK UP AT LOST & 'FOUND IN LIBRARY  RIDE NEEDED TO BUFFALO OR ROCHESTER LEAVE ANYTIME 9/22 OR 9/23 RETURN 9/25 WILL SHARE EXPENCES RICK 1877  TICKETS  NEED USC TIX FOR A GOOD CAUSE. CALL TOMAT1748. R1ch '83 ND grad needs 2 USC tickets-­ Any type of FILM lor only $.50. Call1312 tor more tnformatton. Vote for MICHELLE COLEMAN and  Please. call1311 and otter to sell me your t1cket. Will pay b1g bucks. HANDBALL PLAYERS· Grad student look1ng for some games. Will play  
FOUND BOOK BACKPACK, CALL 1071 EVENINGS AND IDENTIFY  RIDE NEEDED TO MIAMI !OHIO) FRI 9/23 SEAN 277·1405  TICKETS  NEEDED  FOR  USC-MUST  student or GA. If you can help, call Dave at 1615.  LAURA TOPPIN the pair that Will make your year at Regtna one of the best. Prepare yourself tor dances., fun, h,m, and  anytime/anyday. Call Mike at 291-4998 1n eventngs  
found .. set ot keys on a gold ND keycha1n 1n 103 business adm1mstrat1on at 1 00 Mon. call Beth at 7947  R1de needed to NW suburbs of Ch1cago (Palattne or v1c1ntty) 9-23 return 9/25. w1ll share usual. 11 you can help. call Mary at 284-4286  HAVE---CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 I HAVE 4 MSU AND 2 PITT TICKETS, BUT I NEED USC INSTEAD. LET'S TALK. CALL JERRY AT x1763 AFTER  HELP A RICH friend is in desperate need oftwo PlnSBURGH GA's. Please help an old friend out of a jam by calling Sari at 277·  more tun. We can do it all, but only 11 you vote tor the pair that can't be topped. MIC­HELLE COLEMAN tor Reg1na Hall Presi­dent and LAURA TOPPIN lor Vice-President  JUNIORS JUNIORS·JUNIOR CLASS BOOZE CRUISE AND DINNER SAT 24 TICKETS AVAILABLE THIS WED THU & FRI FROM 12 00·1 30 IN LA FORTUNE 5$ PER PERSON  
REWRITE LOST THOMAS HOBBE'S LEVIATHAN & RICHARD TAYLOR'S METAPHYSICS. PROBABLY IN O'SHAG. CALL THERESE AT 8050  I NEED A RIDE TO INDIANA U. SEPT. 23·25 WILL COMPENSATE GENEROUSLY CALL PAUL 6802. HELP! I need a nde to Ch1cago Fr~day 9/23. Please call Tom at 1736.  8. Desperately need Penn State game tick· ets. Call Bnan at 8795. NEED 2 USC GAS CALL BRIAN 6981  1326. You will be richly rewarded. NEED 4 or 5 GAS FOR ANY GAME COULD MEAN EMPLOYMENT. CALL STEVE AT 232-0550.  NEED 2,3 OR 4 TICKETS FOR USC OR Pin GAME. I AM DESPERATE AND WILLING TO PAY. WE'RE TALKING BIG BUCKSI CALL MOAT t31 t. ITALIAN CLUB ORGANIZATIONAL  HEY ALL YOU PETE SEEGER FANSII COME TO F.L.O.C.'S FIRST MEETING THIS THURS., SEPT. 22 AT 7·00 PM IN THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­CERNS TO FIND OUT ABOUT PETE'S BENEFIT CONCERT FOR F.L.O.C.  
LOST Ze1ss Icon camera, tn a brown cas1ng. Very used and old looking Has great sentimental value Call M1m1 (616) 899-7272  RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO NORTHWEST SUBURBS CAN LEAVE AFTER 11 A.M. 9/23 AND RETURN 9/25 CALL2785  HELPI NEED USC TIX STUDENT OR G.A. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277-4309 NEED USC TIX. PLEASE CALL 8584.  PERSONALS  ...  MEETING TUESDAY, SEPT .. 20 AT 8·00PM LAFORTUNE LlnLETHEATRE ~·~HEAR YE! HEAR YE! The N.D.  ACCENT YOUR LIFE STEVE BOlE. SHEEP LOVER  
t CAMBRIDGE DIET PLAN -meetings.  Shakespeare Club Will hold an org1n1Z  
LOST· Keys on a Wimbledon key nng 1n the NAZZ or near LaFortune on Saturday n1ght. Please call Karen at6293 1f found  RIDER NEEDED TO GO EAST OCT 8 WEEKEND ANYWHERE IN NORTH JERSEY CALL TED AT 177~  NEED 2 G.A. TICKETS FOR EITHER U.S.C. OR Pin GAME CALL LAURA 284·4387  personalized couseling, FREE! Cambridge Center, 256-5400. Clip th1s ad for savtngs!  ational meeting on Wed. 9/21 at 8 00 p.m. 1n 331 O'Shay. Refresh ments Will be served.  WANTED· LOTS OF FAT CHICKS FOR THE FAT CHICKS OF ND BOOKLET  


~-----­
The Observer Tuesday, September 20, 1983 -page 9 
Phils gain on Bucs 
I 


Orioles widen lead over Tigers 
BALTIMORE (AP) -A two-om With one out, Wilson started the The Twins got one of those runs single by rookieJohn Stefero capped Mets' winning rally wih a single off · back in the top of the third when a two-run 11th-inning rally that gave Kent Tekulve, 7-5-Wilson then stole John Castino singled, but Chicago the Baltimore Orioles an 8-7 victory second just ahead of a strong throw made it 4-1 in the bottom of the in­over the Milwaukee Brewers last by catcher Tony Pena. ning when Tom Paciorek raced 
night. Brooks then followed with a home on the front end of a delayed By winning for the 1Oth time in 11 single to short center field, easily double steal. games, the Orioles increased their scoring Wilson from second and Brunansky's two run-single made American League East lead over idle making a winner of reliever Carlos it 4-3 in the fourth, but the White. 
Detroit to seven-and-a-half games. Diaz, 3-1. Sox made it 5-3 in the fifth on rookie The four-game sweep mathematical­Losing 4-2, the Mets had tied the Ron Kittle's 33rd homer, a drive ofat ly eliminated Milwaukee's defend­score with two runs in the ninth. least 470 feet onto the roof in left ing AL champions, who lost for a field. club-record 1Oth consecutive time. It was Kittle's second rooftop
Moitt. 3-6, 

.After Milwaukee took a 7-6Iead in blast this season. Luzinski has hit the top of the 1Oth, Cal Ripken three there this season.
St.L. 0-3 

singled on a chopper in front of the 
K.C. 8-7, Cal. 4-6 
plate. Eddie Murray flew out, but MONTREAL (AP) -Pinch-hitter
Gary Roenicke singled, Ken KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP)-Willie
Terry Crowley singled home Ar­
Singleton tied it with a single and Wilson doubled home U.L Washing­genis Salazar from third base with
Stefero got the game-winning hit for 
ton with the tying run with two out none out in the eighth inning for thethe second game in a row, off Tom in the ninth and then sped homego-ahead run in a three-run eighth
Tellman, 9-4. when Pat Sheridan hit an infield
inning that gave the Montreal ExposThe winner was Tim Stoddard, 4­single, lifting Kansas City to a 7-6 vic­a 6-3 victory over the St. Louis Car­3, who pitched one inning. 
tory and a doubleheader sweep of
dinals and a sweep of their the California Angels last night. 
The volleyball team is gradually improving. Their latest achievement
doubleheader last night. 

Phil.7, Chi.6 

Washington drew a walk from 
In the opener, Bryan Smith tossed was a win over Southwestern Michigan last Saturday. See Mike
Byron McLaughlin, 1-4, leading offPHILADELPHIA (AP) -Veteran 
a five-hitter and Bryan Little and Sullivan's account ofthat win on page 12.
the inning, stole second and scoredJoe Morgan celebrated his 40th Doug Flynn each knocked in a run as on Wilson's two-out double. Bobbirthday with four hits, including the Expos won 3-0. 
Lacey came in to face Sheridan, who being tagged for two runs in thetwo home runs and four RBI's, as the The sweep moved Montreal into a 

S.D. 4, S.F. 2 

hit a grounder which first baseman sixth on a single by Dave WinfieldPhiladelphia Phillies rallied to beat second-place tie with the Pittsburgh Daryl Sconiers lunged to his right to and Steve Balboni's fifth homer.
the Chicago Cubs 7-6Iast night Pirates in the National League East, SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Garry
stop. Sheridan beat Lacey to the bag Roy Smalley began the seventh
The score was tied 6-6 with Templeton's run-scoring groundout
two games behind the Philadelphia and Wilson steamed home from with a pinch homer, and Stanley
Chicago'sace reliever, Let:: Smith, t 4-Phillies with 12 games left_ The in the fourth inning broke a 2-2 tie 
second on the play. replaced Tudor. He was given an in­
10, on the mound, when Morgan led defending world champion Car­and lifted the San Diego Padres to a 
Mark Huismann, 2-1, was the win­surance run to work with in the
off the eighth with his 16th home dinals dropped their sixth str_aight 4-2 victory over the San Francisco 
ner in relief. seventh on Tony Armas' RBI single. 
run ofthe season. and fell seven games behind. Giants last night. 
The Royals won the opener 8-4 as
homer of the Tony Gwynn knocked in one of
Morgan's second Reliever Dave Rucker, 5-3, took 

Sea. 9, Tor. 6 
Don Slaught tripled home two runs 
game made a winner of Ron Reed, San Diego's runs, but his season-high 
the loss in the nightcap. 
to key a six-run rally in the eighth.
8-1, who pitched 1 1-3 innings ofhit­Jeff Reardon, who yielded one hit TORONTO (AP)-Darnell Coles major league hitting streak of 25 
Andy Hassler, 0-5, was the loser in
less relief_ AI Holland got the last two in 2 1-3 innings of relief, earned his slapped a two-run single to highlight games was snapped when he went 
reliefwhile Mike Armstrong, 9-7, got a five-run Seattle seventh inning as 0-for-3.
outs for his 22nd save. seventh victory in 1 5 decisions, the victory in relief. 
the Mariners came from behind to
Morgan, who has had 10 home while BobJames pitched a scoreless Terry Kennedy opened the San 
runs and 29 RBI's in 51 games since ninth for his sixth save. defeat the Toronto Blue Jays 9-6last Diego fourth with a single, took
Bos. 5, N.Y. 3 
night. and a double. BOSTON (AP) -Dwight Evans, AI Cowens and Dave Henderson Scott Garrelts, 1-1, went to third on 
the All-Star break, also had a single second on a wild pitch from loser 

Minn. 7, Chi. 5 
The Cubs had taken a 3-0 lead in Jim Rice, and Glenn Hoffman belted contributed to the outburst with Kevin McReynolds' single and 
CHICAGO (AP) Tom homers as the Boston Red Sox run-scoring singles, while another
the first off Phillies '•arter Marty scored on Templeton's forceout 
Brunansky drilled a two-run homer
Bystrom. The Phillies sliced the spoiled southpaw Ron G•1i~ry's bid run scored on an error. Matt Young, grounder to short. in the top of the eighth inning last
Cubs' lead to 3-2 in the fourth, only for his 20th victory last night with a 11-15, gained the victory, while The Padres added a run in the to fall behind 5-2, then 6-4, before night to give the Minnesota Twins a 5-3 victory over the New York Dave Geisel, 0-3, the fourth ofseven eighth when Alan Wiggins singled7-5 victory over division-champion
tying it in the bottom ofthe seventh. Yankees. Toronto pitchers, took the loss. with one out, stole his 57th and 58th 
Chicago, breaking the White Sox' John Tudor, 12-11, earned the vic­Buck Martinez's lOth homer of bases and scored on catcher Bob 17-game home winning streak. 
tory with relief help from Bob Stan­the season, a solo shot in the fqurth, Brenly's passed ball.
N.Y. 5, Pitt. 4 

Brunansky, who had four RBI's in ley, who posted his 30th save by had given Toronto a 5-4 lead and Right-hander Ed Whitson, 5-7, 
NEW YORK (AP) Hubie the game, broke a 5-5 deadlock with 
checking the Yankees for the final Lloyd Moseby's run-scoring single in who blanked the Giants for four in­Brooks drove in Mookie Wilson with his 25th homer of the year, scoring 
three innings. the sixth had pushed the margin to nings after they scored twice in the a single in the 1Oth inning to give the Mickey Hatcher, who had singled 
Guidry, 19-9, had a six-game win­6-4, but the five-run seventh first, was the winner with relieffrom 
New York Mets a S-4 victory last with two outs. ning streak snapped. brought Seattle back. 
Sid Monge and Floyd Chiffer. night over Pittsburgh, handing the The two-run shot gave rookie 
Evans hit a solo shot for his 22nd Pirates a serious setback in their Mike Walters, who came on in the 
homer leading off the second. 
chase for the National League East fourth, his first major-league win in 
With two out in the third, Wade 

Defense helps L.A. top 
title. two decisions. Chicago's Salome Boggs walked and scored as Rice,The loss, coupled with Philadel­Barojas, 3-3, gave up Brunansky's the American League home run phia's 7-6 victory over the Chicago homer and took the loss. 
leader, belted his 37th. Hoffman 

Miami and remain unbeaten 
Cubs, dropped the Pirates two Chicago built a 3-0 lead in the first 
made it 4-0 with his fourth homer in games behind the Phillies in the Na­two innings on an RBI double by 
the fourth. tional League East. Each team has 12 Greg Luzinski and a two-run double 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Rookie a two-yard run by Frank Hawkins.
Tudor blanked the Yankees on games left. byJulio Cruz. 
defensive end Greg Townsend The play capped a 61-yard, nine-play four hits for five innings before 
dashed 66 yards for a touchdown drive and came immediately after a with a fumble recovery late in the pass interference penalty against third quarter last night as the Los An­Miami's Glenn Blackwood put the geles defense led the Raiders over ball at the Dolphin's 2. the Miami Dolphins 27-14 in the Na­The Raiders made it 13-0 with just tional Football League. nine seconds to go before halftime 
The triumph was the third in as on a 14-yard scoring throw from many games for the Raiders, who quarterback Jim Plunkett to tight joined Dallas as the NFL's only un­end Todd Christensen. Los Angeles beaten teams. The Dolphins, who moved 80 yards on nine plays after 
Say 'auf wiedersehn' to duU Wednesday 
scored two touchdowns in the final Miami's Uwe von Schamann missed
watering apple strudel, German 

2:29 after the outcome was no lon­a 37-yard field goal. Von Schamann
night meals and enjoy Marriott's all-you­chocolate cake, gingerbread with honey, 
ger in doubt, fell to 2-1. had made 11 straight three-pointers,
can-eat Octoberfest Buffet. You'll and the list of Octoberfest delights goes 
The win also extended the including six this season, before his
on and on.

delight to all the exciting "old country" 
Raiders' incredible Monday night miss.
cooking like smoked pork loin with apple Of course, we'll be serving your favorite 
record to 20-2-1 since the nationally The Dolphins finally scored on a
stuffing, hot German slaw, steamship cocktails along with imported light and 
televised games began in 1970. six-yard pass from rookie quarter­
round, bratwurst with horseradish, and dark beer, and you'll be entertained by •· 
The Raiders have allowed only 30 back Dar. Marino to tight end Joe points this season in beating Cincin­
Rose on a fourth-and-goal play with The Marriott Octoberfest Buffet is 
nati, Houston and Miami. 2:29 remaining. M T iami then every Wednesday from 5 p.m. 
The Oilers managed only seven recovered an onside kick and moved until 10 p.m. in the Looking 
first downs against the Raiders, 
54 yards on nine plays for its second Glass Restaurant. Adults $8.95 
while the Dolphins got only nine in TD, a two-yard pass from Marino to and children under 12, $4.95. 
the first 54:45. By then, it was 27-0. Mark Duper with 20 seconds left_ Reservations are appreciated. 
Townsend, a 6-foot-3, 240-pound The Raiders now have a 13-3-1 rookie from Texas Christian, was in record against the Dolphins since the right place after linebacker Rod the Miami franchise was established Martin stripped the ball from Miami 
in 1966. The Dolphins have lost all quarterback David Woodley. The nine games in which they've faced 
play, which occurred on a third-and­
z Save $1.00 on each adult price of Marriott's~ 
the Raiders in California -seven in 6 situation for Miami at the Los An­Oakland, one in Berkeley and Mon­geles 21-yard line, blunted one of 
day night's game before a<6:rowd of

~ SOUTH BEND .,\\Clrriotf ®£!~2~61 ~ 
the few threats by the Dolphins 
57,796 at the Los Angeles Coliseum U HOTEL Offer expires October 26. 1983. Z 
while the game was close. 
and a national television audience. One coupon per table only. 
Los Angeles took a 7-0 lead with The game was blacked out in Los An­
123 N. St. Joseph Street, South Bend, Indiana 46601 
2:53 remaining in the first period on geles. 
---------------------~~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


The Observer Tuesday, September 20, 1983 -page 10 
Tuning up for spring 
Baseball team seeks to build 
By SEAN CALLAHAN 
.\ports Writer 
The fall edition of the '83·'84 
Notre Dame baseball team will host 
Bethel College for a double-header 
on Saturday and will play another 
twinbill Sunday against Valparaiso 
University. 
Coach Larry Gallo, explaining that 
the fall season, unlike the spring, is 
merely exhibition, said, "We use the 
fall as a screening process for tryouts 
and to see what we have for the 
spring." 
Gallo had planned to make cuts af­
ter a scheduled double-header with 
Bradley University last Sunday but 
the games were rained out and will 
not be made up. The field was 
playable Sunday, but the game was 
cancelled due to the forecast of rain 
and to prevent Bradley from travell­
ing four hours for nothing. 
The 45 players remaining on the 
team will be pared down to 30 or 25 
after Gallo and his staff watch this 
weekend's contests in addition to 
intra-squad games today and tomor­
row. 
Despite the fact that the full team 
has not yet been selected, Gallo hao; 
chosen outfielder Carl Vuono as 
team captain. 
Although the fall season has no 
bearing on the Midwestern City 
Conference standings, Gallo is 
taking it seriously. 

Beat the Buckeyes 
"We're going to go out there to win," he said. He pointed out that the team had a disappointing spring, and a good fall season would boost the team's confidence. 
"I'd like to look back and say, 'We 


Carl Vuono 

had a pretty good fall.' Last spring wasn't much to build on." 
Infielder Jack Moran also sees the fall season as potentially beneficial. He feels that working on the fun­damentals and simply playing again after some players took the summer offis good preparation for the spring season. 
"Inexperience across the board" plagued last year's spring squad, according to Gallo. 
Last year's 19-28 record was Gal­lo's first losing season at Notre Dame after two winning years. Following his first two seasons, the Irish schedule became tougher, partially explaining last season's losing record. 
Again this year Gallo has what he believes is a young team, despite the fact that five starters are returning. 
Gallo said, "We'll have a young pitching staff. We lost five pitchers last year." 
In tune with Gallo's statements, Moran said, "We need a lot out of our pitchers this year." 
One pitcher who the Irish will be counting on heavily is Mark Clementz, mainly because he has been statistically the best pitcher on the squad over the past two years. 
"Mark is a steady performer," said Gallo. "He throws strikes, has good breaking pitches, and hits his spots well." 
In addition to the pitching, Gallo feels the Irish defense must be im­proved. Two years ago the defense ranked tenth in the nation, but last year Irish fielding dropped con­siderably in the national rankings. 
Another problem Gallo would like to correct is the habit of falling behind early in the game. He ex­plained that his team did not steal many bases last year and played "station to station," because of­tentimes they had fallen behind and were not in a position to gamble. 
Notre Dame outsmarts OSU 
ByDAVIDROOP 
.\ports Writer 
Last Friday, the Ohio State cross country team tried to steal one from their Notre Dame opponents. When the gun went off, the OSU pack leapt from the starting line, hoping to gain an early lead, while trying to "psych­out" the Notre Dame runners. 
Apparently, their tactic granted them their former wish; five OSU runners battled Notre Dame's Tim Cannon for the lead, with the remainder of the Notre Dame pack running in small groups behind them. 
Notre Dame Coach Joe Plane ex­plained, "Ohio State went out pretty hard in their attempt to control (steal) the race. But by three kilometers our guys had caught them and by four kilometers we were clearly in control." To the dismay of the Ohio State team, the Notre Dame pack would not be denied. In other words, a fast start could not "psych-out" a talented and mentally-ready Notre Dame squad. 
As the race progressed, Ci!nnon wore down the leading Ohio State runners. Eventually all five would be "broken" by Notre Dame's co­captain and top returning letterman. 
Notre Dame seniors Ralph Caron and EdJuba, running together since the early stages of the race, were joined by Andy Dillon and Bill Courtney at the three kilometer mark. Then, Courtney dropped off the pace somewhat, while the remaining three surged to join Can· 
Tennis team wins three 
ByJERRY MELIA 
.\ports Writer 
Many Notre Dame sports fans 

might look upon last weekend as a 
lost one with Michigan State's stun­
ning upset over the Irish football 
team last Saturday. However, those 
fans who follow women's tennis 
might tend to disagree. Coach 
Sharon Petro's team went un­
defeated over the weekend and are 
now 4-0 on the seao;on. 
On Friday afternoon, the Lady Irish tennis team easily defeated But­ler, 9-0, by sweeping all six singles matches and all three doubles matches. The Irish simply outplayed the Butler team. 
On Saturday morning, the Irish had little difficulty in defeating Depauw. The singles matches were swept in straight set victories. 
Pam Fischette and Laura Lee had little trouble defeating their op­ponents. Jo Ann Blafore had a tough match but rallied In the second set to win 6-4, 6-4. 
The only point lost over the weekend came at first doubles. The team of Mary Colligan and Flschette lost on Saturday when they encoun­tered a talented Depauw first doubles team. 
This Depauw team executed and played solid tennis early in the match; therefore, they won the first set rather easily by a 6-3 count. Col· ligan and Fischette fought their way back in the second set, but it just wasn't enough. They lost the set 7-5. 
The second doubles team ofSusie Panther and Laura Lee were vic­torious by scores of 6-1, 6-0. The third doubles team of Lisa LaFretta 
and  Gretta  Roemer  were  also  
stra t ight set victors.  
And  in  a  late  result,  the  Irish  

women handily defeated Wheaton College by a 9-0 score yesterday to raise their season record to 5-0. 
Coach Petro was obviously very pleased with the performance ofher team. However, the team can only savor these victories for a short time because of the many tough matches to come in the next few weeks. 
The team would greatly ap­preciate some more fans for their next home meet, which is tomorrow against Rosary. 
non. 

By the time the lead runners had 
hit the halfway point (four 
kilometers), they had gained a solid 
hold on the race. 

The Ohio State squad did cause 
one problem for the Irish with its 
suicidal quick start. 
"Our original intention was to 
start out slow and make our move at 
about three kilometers," explained 
Juba. "Their fast start thwarted our 
race stategy because it srread us 
out." 

Fortunately, the Irish were able to 
regroup. Cannon, Dillon, Caron, and 
Juba ran the second half of the race 
in what Juba described as, "a hard 
but not overly taxing pace." 
They finished at 24:44 in a four­
way tie for first. Then, Ohio State's 
top runner, Kurt Klodnick, who had 
recently finished second in t OSU's 
three-way meet with Western Mich­
igan and Bowling Green, finished 
fifth at 25:02. 

Leading the second pack of Notre Dame runners, freshman standout Mike Collins finished sixth at 25: I 2, followed closely by Jim Tyler, John Adams, and Craig Maxfield. 
It is noteworthy to mention that this second pack ran times which are very comparable to the times of Notre Dame's lead pack two years ago on the same course. . Even better, Notre Dame's top four men are nearly a half-minute faster than their forerunners were two years ago. 
The final tally indicates Notre Dame's dominance over their Ohio State counterparts: NO I 6 OSU 4 7 (lowest score wins). · 
At this point, Notre Dame's cross country team looks strong; however, a fifth man to join the ranks of their top four runner's caliber would be a welcome addi­tion. 
Hopefully, one ofthe second four finishers (Collins, Tyler, Adams, Maxfield) will develop Into that strong fifth man. 
In any case, the student body gets a chance to play "sixth man" this Saturday when the team takes on Northwestern at 1 I am. on Burke Memorial GolfCourse. 

The Obscrvrr/FUc .,hoto 
Baseball coach Larry Gallo is pointing to a hopefully successful fall campaign, wanting it to be a solidfoundation to build on in the spring. For more details see Sean Callahan's story at left. 
• • . Rankings 

continued/rom page 12 
The Second Ten conists of 

Alabama moved into the Top Ten Auburn, West Virginia, Notre Dame, for the first time under Coach Ray Georgia, Florida, Pitt, Michigan, Perkins. The Crimson Tide clob-Southern Methodist, Boston College bered Mississippi 40-0 and rose from and Florida State. I 2th to sixth with 790 points. 
Iowa, which handed defending APTopT-nty The Top Twenty college football teams 1n The As·

·national champion Penn State its 
soclated Press poll, wrth f~rsl-place votes 1n paren­third straight setback 42-34, jumped theses, th1s season's records and total pomts. Po1nts from 13th to seventh with 732 
based on 20· t 9· 18· 17 etc. Notre Dame oponenls are 
italicized.

points. The Hawkeyes were 
foll~wed by Oklahoma, with 700 1. Nebraska (57) 3-0·0 1,178 2. Texas (2) 1·0·0 1,112
points. 
3. Ohio Stale 2·0·0 1,038 Rounding out the Top Ten are 4. Anzona 3-0·0 933 5. North Carolina 3-Q-0 847

Washington and Southern Califor­
6. Alabama 2·0·0 790 nia. Washington defeated Michigan, 7. Iowa 2-Q-0 732 
last week's No. 8 team, 25-24, and 
8. Oklahoma 1-1·0 700 9. Wash1ngton 2-Q-0 662

shot from 16th to ninth with 662 
10. Southern Cal 1-(}-1 535 points, while the Wolverines 11. Auburn 1-1·0 525 12. West Virg1nia 3·0·0 506
dropped to I 7th. Florida State, 
13. Notreo..... 1·1-G 378 whiCh had been No. 9, lost to Tulane 14. Georgia 1-Q-1 375 15. Florida 2-Q-1 362
34-28 and fell to 20th. 
16. Pittsburgh 2-Q-0 347Southern Cal climbed from 14th 17. Michigan 1-1·0 319 

to lOth with 535 points by beating 
18. Southern Methodist 2·0·0 315 19. Boston College 3.0·0 165

Oregon State 33· I 0. 
20. Florida State 2·1·0 157 


Do you have a friend or family member who has a drinking problem? Maybe our AI-Anon group is for you! 
WHEN: Every Thursday, 4:00pm beginning September 15. WHO: for Notre Dame/St. Mary's College 
students. WHERE: Counseling-Psychological Services Center. Notre Dame Student Health Center 

CONTACT: Peggy Cronin or Monica McNamara at C-PSC, 239-7336 or 239-5085 


T0 day____________________T_u_es_d_a_y_,_se_p_t_e_m_b_e_r_2_o_,_1_9_8_3__p_a_g_e_l_l 

MARSON GRAPHICS 
ORIGINAL ART PRINTS 
EXHIBITION AND SALE 
LAFORTUNE CENTER--TUES AND WED Sept. 20 and 21 
Stepan Courts, 7:00--bring J.D. 

11 am -7pm 
and socks, Skates provided. 


Bloom County 



Aspirin Man 

CI'WW CCAI1lfA; IE M 
A 3111 1Zl 00. ASTiallr liAS IE£N IIEZI'IN'-A f£1' IN /Ill PDOf'l. 
\ 
' 


The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
9120/83
All Rights Reserved 


Berke Breathed 
Photius 
WOW! HE'S 'BWLrA 
FULL StU Kff'LICII I 
• f.I!'S PICKIN6 UP . 
THE BALL ... 
David). Adams 

~!..:,.~"·~'~·"~=......d·--~ 
Campus . ·. 
•12:20 
p.m.-Slide Presentation, ofthe Vatican Collection, Annenberg Auditorium 

•3 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Tapes and Backups, 115 Computing Center 

•4 
p.m. -Field Hockey, NO Women vs. Taylor, Alumni Field 

•7 
p.m. Social Concerns Film, "Autobiography of Ms. Jane Pittman," Center for Social Concerns Building 

•7 
p.m. -Pre Law Society Meeting, Library Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Psychology Club Meeting, Haggar Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Equestrian Club Meeting, 20 LaFortune 

•8 
p.m. -Italian Club OrganizationalMeeting, LaFortune Little Theatre 


TV Tonight 
6:30p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 9:00p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10 p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 16  Tonight Show  
:Z:Z  CBS Late Movie  
:Z8  Thicke ofthe Night  
11:30 p.m. 16  Late Night with David Letterman  

Far Side 

"Yes, with the amazing new 'knife' you only have to wear the SKIN of those dead animals." 
16 MASH 
:Z:Z Family Feud 
:Z8 Wheel ofFortune 
34 Straight Talk 
16 ATeam 
:Z:Z Special Movie Presentation: "The Wiz" 
28 Happy Days 
34 NOVA 
:Z8 Joanie Loves Chachi 
16 Remington Steele 
:Z8 Three's Company 34 Lifeline 
:Z8 9 to 5 :Z8 Hart to Hart 34 Numero Uno 
:Z:Z Adam's House 34 Matters of Life and Death 
16 NewsCenter 16 
:Z:Z 22 Eyewitness News 
:Z8 Newswatch 28 
ACROSS 1 Masticate 5 Bedouin 
garments 9 Celestial 
body 14 Vow 15 Identical 16 Poplar tree 17 Short skirt 18 Market 
losers? 20 What pio­neers do 22 Gathering of people 
23 Scot's affirma· tives 
24 Be on guard 26 Utters Impulsively 
Monday's Solution 
30 Dugout 
31 Crescent· F'laped figures 
32 Heavy burden 37 Omnium· gatherum 38 Twin crystal 
39 Former secretary of state 

40 Have a sale 42 Thread used for hosiery 
43 Relax 
44 Tab of films 45 Handsome youth 



48 German 
title 49 Performed 50 Unsafe 
vessel 57 "I give to 
you this-" 59 Nevada town 60 Sellers or 
Falk 61 NYteam 62 Came to 
rest 63 Jogs 64 Part of a 
blind 65 Nativeof Odense 
DOWN 1 Hairitem 2 Call to 3 Laboratory 
vessel 4 Gee-! 5 Analyses 
or ore 6 Thailand 
money 7 Cupid 8 Antitoxins 9 Square 
danceVIPs 10 Palmyra 
leaf: var. 11 Tree cobra 12 Coal 13 "-her was 
to love ••er" 


19 Gnaw 21 E;~.i!>les ·"'·~ ,..., 25 "Danger lurks-" 26 Coalition 27 Oner 28 Single 29 Start business again 30 "-Well That Ends Well" 32 Condiment 33 Cold stuff 34 Kiln 35 Long river 36 Riverto the Elbe 38 Didn't hit the target 41 Very vocal protesters 42 Breathing organ 44 Truthful 45 Take as one's own 46 Cafe 47 "-the West Wind" 48 View 51 Munitions 52 Cuckoo of of India 53 Rosary unit 54 Cooking pot 55 Related 56 Carry 58 Soak flax 
----------.. 
Sports 
Tuesday, September 20, 1983 -page 12 
~-~~--­

Volleyball team is gradually improving 
By MIKE SULLIVAN nowski. However, after the Irish .\ports Editor committed a net violation to end their streak, the Roadrunners began The first part of the Notre Dame playing much better and began a 
volkyhall team's season is over and, streak of their own, eventually tying whilt· the record ( 4-1 I ) does not the score at"'·7. show it, the team is gradually However, Mollie Merchant 
improvin~ despite some serious in­scored off a set by Maternowski and jury prohlems. Notre Dame began a string that saw 
This Saturday's win over South· it win eight of the last nine points of western Michigan was a good the game. example ofthe team's progress so far The Irish were looking forward to this year. The Irish took the long wrapping up the match in three m:Jtch in timr games, I 5-8, I 5-8, 6-straight, but Southwestern Michigan 
15, and I 5-8. had different ideas. Playing their "The players arc improving," said best volleyball of the match and !lead Coach Sandy Vanslager, "but 
capitalizing on poor passing by their their performance wasn't at the level hosts, the Roadrunners turned a 4-4 where I want it. They're still not game into a 15-6 rout. close to the maximum level." 
Southwestern Michigan took The Southwestern Michigan themselves out of the match in the 

match showed that the team is on The performance of Blair Kiel, shown here on a day's loss to Michigan State. Mike Sullivan
fourth game, however. Trailing 6-1,the verge of overcoming the minor successful bootleg, raises one of many major discusses the game and some ofthose questions in
the Roadrunners came back to tie mistakes that have troubled it all questions that have arisen as a result of Satur-his column below. 
the score. But, after a Notre Dame year. Service errors and net viola­timeout, the SMC server served the tions were not as prevalent as they 
ball into the net and the Roadrun­
have been in previous matches, and ners never recovered, making three 

the play ofa couple of the freshmen Irish drop to 13th ­
more service errors before the Irish has improved notably. 
took the game and match. 
Perhaps the best example of the Afterwards, Vanslager had mixed Improvement wa~ in the very first 

Cornhuskers remain atop poll 
emotions about the match. 

game of the match. After falling be­"Ourserving was much better and
hind quickly, 1-0, the Irish charged By HERSCHEL NIS~ENSON of a possible 1,180 points from a place with 1,038 points.there is an increase in the level of
out to a I I-4 lead Freshman Karen 

Associated Press nationwide panel of sports writers Arizona, whose seventh-place
concentration," she said, "but weSapp began asserting herself much and sportscasters. The two voters ranking last week was its highestneed to work on the transition from

more than in earlier matches as she The Nebraska Cornhuskers, who who did not rank the Cornhuskers ever, jumped to fourth with 933offense to defense. It's better than it
served well and became a force at mangled Minnesota 84-1 3, were a No. 1 had them second.· 
points by trouncing Washingtonhas been, but the players' foot speed

the net. near-unanimous choice yesterday as The other two first-place votes State 45-6, while Notre Dameis slow and balls are dropping in
Both sides traded points after this the nation's top college football went to Texas, which opened its skidded from fourth to 13th follow­open spaces."
and Notre Dame eventually took the team, while Notre Dame, Auburn, season with a convincing 20-7 tri­
ing a 28-23 upset at the hands of game. The fact that the Irish made no The Irish will have plenty of time Michigan and Florida State fell out of umph over Auburn and moved up 
Michigan State. North Carolina service errors or violations made the to work on some of the problems as theTopTen. from third place to second with whipped Miami of Ohio 48-1 7 and victory even more important. they will not play again until Sep­The lopsided victory was the 1,112 points. The Longhorns 

went from I Oth to fifth with 847 The second game started much temher 28. They were originally Cornhuskers' third in a row, during replaced Oklahoma, which dropped 
points, while Auburn dropped from like the first, with Notre Dame jum­scheduled to play on Wednesday which they have outscored the op­from seco t nd to eighth after losing to fifth to I I th. ping out to a quick 7-1 lead on the but their opponent, Lake Michigan position 184-39. Nebraska received Ohio State 24-14. The Buckeyes' vic­serving of co-captain Josie Mater-College, forfeited the match. 57 of 59 first-place votes and 1,178 tory vaulted them from sixth to third see RANKINGS, page 10 

Will the real Irish please stand up? 
Ifyou're looking for an optimbtic column that tells you 
not to worry hecause it's early in the year, you won't find it 
here. 

If you're looking for a scathing column attacking Gerry 
faust, Blair Kiel, and all the other popular targets, you 
won't tlnd that here either. 

The reason is quite simple: after two games like Purdue 
and Micht~-:an State, it is impossihle to get a true reading of 
this Notre Dame football team. Tht•re are just too many 
4uestions that have to he answered. 

The first 4uestion is the most important one. 
Wbicb Notre Dame team is tbe real Notre Dame team? 
We have seen two different Notre Dame teams so far this 
year. Against Purdue, we saw an Irish squad that abused a 
Purdue team that was supposed to he a tough opponent. 
We saw a team that put pressure on the quarterback, didn't 
give up the big play, and both ran and passed the ball effi­
ciently. We also saw a team that seemed to possess a killer 
instinct. 

Against Michigan State, we saw a Notre Dame team lose 
to a team that doesn't have anywhere near the talent that 
Notre Dame does. We saw a team that couldn't put much 
pressure on the quarterhack and could rush, but not pass. 
Wt· saw a team that was very susceptible to the big play. 
And we saw a team that didn't want to win as much as the 
opponent. 

Which team should we expect to see for the rest of the season? If it is the team that crushed Purdue, maybe we can write off this Michigan State game as the one bad game of the season. If it is the team that we saw on Saturday, this season will be like the last two. Most likely, the real Notre Dame team is a combination of the two. The next few games will tell us what kind of team we should expect. 
Are we seeing tbe "new, improved" Blair Kiel, ordid be, like tbe rest of tbe team, have an unusually bad game Saturday? 
We have been told repeatedly that Kiel is a better quar­terback this year. He's supposedly more confident and cool under pressure. His performance at Purdue seemed to prove this. 
However, the Blair Kiel that played against the Spartans looked like the Kiel of old. In all fairness to him, he had little pass protection and was dizzy from a concussion he received in the first half. Still, the results -two intercep­tions -give one an uneasy feeling that maybe Kiel is no 

Mike Sullivan 
Sports Editor 

better this year than last. Things like fumbling the snap on an important drive late in the game also makes one wonder about his coolness under fire. Once again, though, we won't get an answer for another game or two. 
Wb_v did tbe Michigan State players want to win tbe game more than tbe Notre Dame players? 
The judgement that Michigan State wanted to win more is not my own. At lea~t three key Notre Dame players said as much after the game. 
This question bothers me more than the others right now. We all hear how Notre Dame opponents are more psyched up for Notre Dame than any other team. This I understand. However, when people use this as a reason for a loss, I have to question it. When Nebraska plays a team, it is the opponent's biggest game of the year, but Nebraska still beats it to a pulp. 
Whether or not Notre Dame is as psyched up for a game as the opponent, the ultimate goal should be to win, no matter what it takes. Notre Dame has a lot more to lose than the game, so it's necessary for them to want to win. If Michigan State loses by five, it still goes home knowing it gave powerful Notre Dame a tough game. Notre Dame doesn't have that luxury. Saturday's game might be Michi­gan State's toughest of the year, but that doesn't make people at Notre Dame feel any better. 
Now, with their backs to the wall, the Notre Dame players are going to have to show how much they want to win. 
These are the major questions that arise from the Michi­gan State game, but there are other questions. Why couldn't we get a pass rush? Why couldn't we adjust to Michigan State's defense? How badly are injuries hurting the team? Like the first few questions, they will be answered in the next few weeks. 
So we're two weeks into the season and things are not looking good for the Notre Dame football team. A loss so early in the year to a team that everyone thought we would 
roll over has had a tremendous effect on Notre Dame fans, 
alumni, and, especially, students. 
The students have been pushed to the edge. They are 
beginning to feel that this season will be like the last two. 
Seniors are already mourning their final year and kicking 
themselves that they passed up going to the Sugar Bowl as 
freshmen. Juniors are wondering if they will ever get to a 
bowl game. They are rapidly losing confidence in the team. 
For the first time in three years, I have heard people say 
that they've given up on the team. 
The players and coaches are surely getting wind of the students' unrest. Thus, they should know that the pressure's on even more than usual. How they respond over the next nine weeks is going to tell a lot about the character ofthe players and coaches. 
With all of this in mind, I'd like to offer a challenge to 
both players and students. 
I've heard a number of players say that the national championship is still within reach and I agree totally with them. But, as the saying goes, "put your money where your mouth is." There is no doubt that, in order to do this, Notre Dame would have to win the rest of its games, including a major bowl game. It won't be easy, but this team can do it if it takes each team individually and comes into the game as psyched up as the other team. 
Ifwe've learned anything over the last couple of years, it's that you cannot look ahead and take any team for granted. Before Michigan State, I thought that the team had learned this lesson, but obviously not. 
Fortunately, we have our fate pretty much in our own hands. However, the team had better realize that the stu­dents are not ready for another season like the past two. And what good is it to play for a student body that doesn't have any confidence in you. 
The challenge to the students is not to give up on the team. Everyone knows how important it is to Notre Dame for the football team to do well. Look at the effect the game had on the social life on Saturday night. Ifyou don't havt· confidence in the team, the excitement of football weekends will be lost. 
What all this means is that the biggest game in three years will be played next Saturday night at Miami. forget about Michigan State and look toward Miami. 







