-~----­
• • • Spelunkers -page 4 

tht: intkpt·ntknt stlllknt nt:w:-papt:r st:rYing notrt: Jamt: and saint mary':-WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1983
VOL XVII, NO. 138 
Egyptian President Mubarak ·assents to new Lebanon pact 
CAIRO. Egypt (AP)-Secretary of Mubarak agreed that Israel's terms this issue," he said. 
State George P. Shultz received were excessive. Israel has been Asked if he thought it might be Egyptian President Hosmi insisting on leaving behind a small possible to arrange for the Mubarak's full support yesterday for contingent of security forces to withdrawal of Israeli toops during 
what is expected to be a grueling ef­protect its northern border and on a the trip, Shultz replied, "It's certain­fort to get an agreement for the key security role for the Israeli­ly possible but we will see." withdrawal of Israeli and other backed militia leader Maj. Saad Had­Mubarak, who said Shultz gave 
foreign troops from Lebanon. dad. him a letter from President Reagan 
The effort begins in earnest today With Mubarak at his side, the concerning Middle East problems, when Shultz goes to Israel for a secretary said they discussed the ur­said he hoped the secretary's trip to meeting with Prime Minister Menac­gent need for a withdrawal agree­the region would conclude with 
hem Begin, who has set conditions ment that "honors the necessity of a "something beneficial to the whole for a troop withdrawal that Lebanon sovereign Lebanon able to rule it­region." is unwilling to meet. self" He said there must be a complete 
After a 3 1/2-hour ·meeting with ''The views of the president of withdrawal ofall foreign forces from Mubarak, Shultz gave reporters the Egvpt and the views ofthe president Lebanon. clear imnre~~ion that he and of the United States are identical on Mubarak also said Egypt considers 
Reagan's faltering Middle East peace initiative a "golden oppurtunity" for peace. He uged the Palestinians to
Tylenol exec promotes 
meet its tenns by "declaring a linkage with jordan" that will make possible peace negotiations with Is­

'right' business ethics 
rael. 
The plan, rejected by Israel and By BOB VONDERHEIDE much praise for the way it handled the Palestine Liberation Organiza­NewsEditor the Tylenol cyanide tragedy. The tion, calls for self-government for 
Washington Post said in an editorial the 1.3 million Palestinians in the 
The leading executive of Tylenol that the co'inpany had set a "new Israeli-occupied West Bank and was walking down South Quad yes­standard" for corporate response to Gaza Strip and the association of the terday as he used to do 27 years ago such tragedies, and that the anti­territories with jordan. when he was a Notre Dame senior. corporate movement will have 
It seemed like the first time in six much trouble "putting horns atop months he wasn't running. Johnson &Johnson." David Collins, chairman of the Colli,ns, speaking earlier at a Johnson & Johnson subsidiary Marketing Club lecture, said that at 

House cuts Salvadoran military aid 
McNeill Products, became the chief no time did anyone at J&J suggest organizer of the massive marketing scrapping the Tylenol label and footrace to save Tylenol when an un­reintroducing the product under a WASHINGTON(AP) -President waging a covert campaign against four U.S. churchwomen in El Sal­known killer brought the health care new, cheery name. The task force Reagan's request for S60 million in Nicaragua and Reagan promised to vador. giant to its knees last September. (set up immediately after the news military aid to El Salvador was cut in name a special envoy for Central Long acknowledged that "this is 
"What I'm trying to describe," he of the Chicago deaths reached Col­halfby a House panel yesterday as he America, whose duties will include not a perfect solution" but he said said, "is a situation so complex and lins) also decided to keep constant readied a special plea to Congress assisting the "Salvadorans in their ef­that the assurances represented sub­so fast-moving that without a sound contact with the media. McNeill and the nation to rally behind his forts to find a basis for dialogue wjth stantial progress "in view of the permanent ethic -some sort of opened several toll-free "Tylines," Central American policy. their opponents." Speculation cen­tortured history ofEl Salvador." guiding light like a path along this that eventually received some The 7-S decision by the Ap­tered on former Democratic Senator After the vote approving the 530 walk -you get absolutely lost." 344,000 calls from confused con­propriations Subcommittee on Richard Stone of Florida as their million, the subcommittee released ' 
But Collins said the values he sumers, and Jater issued 80 million Foreign Operations to slash the Sal­choice for that post. a letter to Long from Secretary of learned as an undergraduate in coupons offering to replace any vadoran aid to S30 million tollowed Long said that he supported the State George P. Shultz, in which 
l
Notre Dame's General Program Extra-Strength capsules with tablets. tie vote, 6-6, that would have barred scaled-down aid package after as­Shultz said "we favor a negotiating helped him deal with the tragedy A week after the first death, Col­any decision at all for 90 days. The surances that the new ambassador process which would lead the way that was "literally laced with ethical lins and the task force withdrew compromise was engineered by "will be charged with advancing the to a political solution through free questions at every turn." some 31 million bottles of Tylenol Chairman Clarence D. Long, D-Mo., peace process" in El Salvador. and fair elections. 
He opened the door to the Morris products. More than 8 million Extra­who just returned from El Salvador. The Maryland Democrat also said "To advance this objective, the Inn. "Everyone knows you should Strength capsules were tested for The Senate Foreign Relations he was satisfied with promised steps President will soon be designating a pursue the right," he said, "but not cyanide contamination. Incidental­Committee already had settled on an toward opening Salvadoran prisons senior U.S. official of ambassadorial everybody in the business world has ly, two more bottles were foun t d identical cut. to inspection by the International rank to act as a special envoy to the conviction that if you always go with tainted capsules. "The decision Meanwhile yesterday, the full Red Cross, freeing political Central American governments," for what you think is right that to withdraw the capsulses saved at Senate met behind closed doors prisoners, and undertaking a review 
see HOUSE, page 3
whatever the short-term conse­least two lives," Collins said. about whether the administration is of evidence in the 1980 killings of quences, things will work out right Two days after the poisonings, the in the long-term. task force decided to design a new 
"I'm not going to let the economic tamper-resistant package for the consequences of a decision prevent eventual re-marketing of Tylenol. 

Chicago profmarks finance trends 
me from making the right decision," On December 19, after an initial 80 he said. percent drop of sales, Tylenol in its Johnson & johnson has received new triple-sealed container ap­By AMY STEPHAN Miller noted that, "Generally you do qot know what peared again in drug stores. StaffReporter the price will be tomorrow." He said that economists 
Many economic experts try to discover rational patterns within this process. predicted the certain death of Current research in the field of finance was the sub­"The issue of whether or not it makes sense is more Tylenol, especally after the task ject of Merton Miller's lecture "The January Anomaly" than an academic discussion," said Miller, noting that force decided to stick with the yesterday after-stock market prices influence the distribution of Tylenol label. One economist said noon. resources.
WEDNESDAY~IM
that saving Tylenol would be as "There is no Miller stated that much research in finance consists miraculous as turning a fountain of shortage of 
of fact gathering. He said that researchers attempt to water into wine. By this month, research devise tl'\eories or paradigms to describe the "rules of



ocus
Tylenol products had regained 95 puzzles," said the game." percent of its pre-poisoning levels, Miller, the Leon Data, such as records of transaction prices for com­where it had been the top health and Carroll Marshall Distinguished Service Professor in the mon stock, serve as raw material for statistical experi­beauty aid for five years. Graduate School of Business of the University of ments, said Miller. These experiments generally 
At last count, Collins said he didn't Chicago. Miller described two such research puzzles confirm or extend the underlying paradigm, but know if McNeill's public relation and current attempts to solve them. anomalies occasionally occur which can't be explained director had delivered the fountain Miller said that research in finance involves the by theory, Miller noted. ofwine. pricing of"so-called capital assets." These capital assets Miller said that three years ago a glaring anomaly was 
The total cost of the tragedy? include such things as stock shares, fine art, and other uncovered. The computer data suggested that the smal­McNeill, Collins said, lost S 100 mil­investments, Miller stated. lest 20 percent of the market "substantially outper­lion directly "out of the pocket." Capital assets are not valued for the consumption formed the larger firms." Miller said that this evidence The loss, some experts say, might servi~es they prov.ide, said Miller, explaining that, "The violated two basic paradigms offinance. have been much less if McNeill had price you are willing to pay today (for capital assets) 
David Collins depends on the price you think you can get tomorrow." see MILLER, page 5
see TYLENOL, page 4 



~-~---~ 

News Brief§ 
wectnesctay,Apri127,19B3-page2 
~b:y:T.~ne~O~b~J~er:v:e:r:a:n:d~7~o:e:A~J:J:oc=,=at:e:d~P:r=e=J.=,~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::~~==~ 
J. D'Arcy Chisholm, assistant director of the In­stitute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, has been appointed acting director of IPSM by University provost Timothy O'Meara. The for­mer director, Monsignor john). Egan, resigned from the position effective April 1 5 when he returned to the Archdiocese ofChicago. A search committee is in the process of finding a new director for IPSM. -The Observer 
A House committee voted unanimously yesterday to cite former Enironmental Protection Agency official Rita M. Lavelle for contempt of Congress because of her refusal to testify about alleged mismanagement within the EPA. The vote by the House Energy and Commerce Committee came after the former EPA assistant administrator twice defied subpeonas to appear before the panel's investigations subcommittee. The contempt resolution now goes to the House floor. A vote there to cite Lavelle for contempt would send the matter to the U.S. attorney for criminal prosecution. Rep. john Dingell, D-Mich., chairman ofboth the full committee and the investigations subcommittee, said he would be willing to drop the issue if Lavelle cooperates fully with the congressional investiga­tion. Lavelle was in charge of the S I .6 billion "superfund" toxic waste cleanup program and one focus ofthe congressional investiga­tion into alleged mismanagement and political manipulation of the fund. She was fired by President Reagan on Feb. 7 after she refused a request by then-EPA Administrator Anne McGill Burford that she resign. She has been sought for congressional questioning ever since. -AP 
1 The Cliff-hanging"Dynasty" episode that left viewers wondering about the fate of its two beautiful stars was the most­watched show ofthe week ending April 24, and gave ABC its second weekly ratings victory. "Dynasty," the steamy soap opera centered on Denver oil baron Blake Carrington and his troubled family, finished nearly five rating points ahead of its nearest competitor in the A.C. Nielson Co. survey. The season-ending show had a rating of 27.7, while second-place "Alice" on CBS had 22.5. Its arch-rival as most popular prime-time soap, CBS' "Dallas," was pre-empted last week. "Dynasty" concluded its third year with an episode that left Krystle Carrington and Alexis Carrington trapped in a burning cabin. Linda Evans stars as Krystle, Blake's wife, and joan Collins is the malevolent Alexis, his former wife. ABC won the week with a rating of I6.0. CBS was second with I4.9 and NBC was third with 13.6. The networks say this means that in an average prime-time minute, I6.0 percent ofhomes with television were tuned to ABC. -AP 
The three commercial networks will broadcast President Reagan's address tonight to a joint session of Congress, beginning at 7 p.m. -AP 
Billy Carter says he never would have recovered from alcoholism if his family, including former President Carter, had not pressured him. The former president's brother told students at Georgia Southern College that he probably would have "flat sat there and drank myself to death" if he had not been pushed to quit drinking. Carter, whose daughter Marie is a student at Georgia Southern, kicked off a college program on problem drinking with a speech Monday. Carter, 47, spent several weeks at the U.S. Navy's alcoholism treatment center in Long Beach, Calif., in 1979. 
-AP 

Ti.tnes Beach officials moved yesterday to blockade the doomed St. Louis suburb where most of the residents have been driven out by flooding or dioxin contamination and the government wants the rest to get out. The Environmental Protection Agenncy has put up more than 533 million to buy up the homes and businesses in the town and the state government has put up more than 53.6 million. Concerned that their dioxin-contaminated roads are dangerous, city officials took the first steps yesterday toward barring rubber-necking tourists and looters from the near-ghost town, where only about 65 families remain. Meanwhile, the EPA named the 30th confirmed dioxin site in Missouri. EPA spokes­woman Romena Michaels said an area along a gravel road and driveway near Pacific in ruraljefferson County about 25 miles south­west ofSt. Louis was found to have levels ofdioxin ranging from 4 to 25 parts per billion. The EPA has ordered cleanup ofsites containing one part per billion ofdioxin. -AP 
The Soviet Union launched another Cosmos satellite yesterday, the third sent aloft in the last five days. The official Tass news agency said the Cosmos I457 satellite carried equipment that was "functioning normally" and designed for the exploration ofout­er space t. Cosmos I454 was launched Friday and Cosmos 1455 Sun­day. -AP 
Partly sunnyand mild today with a 3o percent chance ofthundershowers. High in low 70s. Fair and cooler tonight with the low in the mid 40s. Partly sunny tomorrow with a chance ofthunder­showers. High around 70. -AP 


Paying for Olympic gold 

' 

National pride. All of us talk about it, but perhaps sel­dom feel its effects. We talk ofpride in our democracy. Wetalkofprideinoureconomy. 
We are proud on Independence Day, Memorial Day, and Veterans' Day. We are proud that only Americans have walked on the moon. 
These, however, are somewhat abstract sources of pride. Most of us barely recall the 1969 moon walk. Hardly any of us remember the Allied victories in the World Wars. None of us were around on july 4, 1776. 
There is one recent source of national pride, however, that will not soon be forgotten. On February 22, 1980, in Lake Placid, New York, the underdog United States Olympic hockey team upset the powerful Soviet Union, 4-3. Two days later, the Americans defeated Finland to capture the Gold Medal. 
The spirit of pride and accomplishment emanating from Lake Placid engulfed the entire nation. Even in the warp1er states, where hockey is as recognized as cur­ling, Americans took to the streets to celebrate perhaps the greatest upset in sports history. Everyone has heard AI Michaels' call of the final seconds of the USA-USSR contest: "Do you believe in miracles? Yes! Yes!" 
The miracle did happen for 20 American kids. Only two weeks prior to the start of the Winter Olympics, the same team lost, 10-3, to the Soviet Union. The Soviet team, often referred to as the best team in the world, were the heavy favorites to walk away with the gold. Instead, 

they  could  muster  only  a  
third  place  finish  and  a  
bronze medal.  

The American victory in Lake Placid, like all other American Olympic victories, is an amazing accomplish­ment because the U.S. Olympic Committee receives no aid from the government. The United States is the only nation among the 1 51 that compete in the Olympics that doesn't give money to its athletes. 
While a good athlete with a strong desire to succeed has a good shot at Olympic gold, he needs money, and plenty of it. The USOC estimates that it costs S3,000 a year to train a top-level competitive swimmmer, S I 0,000 to train a gymnast, and 520,000 to train a figure skater. If U.S. athletes don't receive money from the private sector, they don't stand a chance. 
We've all heard the stories about the "amateur" ath­letes in other countries. It is well-known, for example, that the Soviet government searches for potential Olympic champions at a early age, takes them away from their families, and gives them special training. Many people question the amateur status ofsuch Olym­
Davl"d Dzl"edzi·C 
Editor-in-Chief 

Inside Wednesday 

pians. 

It is becoming increasingly difficult for America's ath­letes to compete against such athletic factories. That's why Congress must pass and the President must sign a bill that will create a voluntary checkoffbox on all I040 income tax forms. By checking the box, Americans could earmark SI oftheir tax return for the USOC. Ifthe taxpayer owes money to the government, he could in­crease the amount of his check by the appropriate amount. 
The USOC hopes to raise at least $25 million a year from the checkoff. It would channel the money into improving amateur athletics at all levels, and would build regional Olympic training centers so athletes could develop their world-cla.<>s skills near their homes. 
A majority of the House of Representatives and about 30 U.S. Senators favor the proposal. Those who oppose it, however, raise some serious objections. Some fear, for example, that this might be the first step toward government funding of the U.S. Olympic Team. Such a situation is certainly 
undesirable. 

Other people argue that potential Olympic athletes comprise asp ecial-interest group, and that they should not be singled out for favored treatment. Perhaps other groups should also be recognized on tax forms. Ob­viously, things could get messy. 
These, however, are weak arguments when the benefits ofsuch a checkoffbox are considered. With the 1984 Summer Olympics being held in Los Angeles, it will be important for the USA to make a strongshowing. 
U.S. athletes have sacrificed a great deal in the name of national pride -including the opportunity to par­ticipate in the 1980 Moscow Games. We owe them the chance to wear red, white and blue -and gold. 
Then, perhaps, we can once again experience the strong sense of national pride which results from American Olympic "miracles." 

YOU TOO, CAN RUN THE FUN! 
Appications for next year's 


An Tostal Chairman
Aren't we legendary.? 

Design Editor........................ Helen ofTrov 
are available this week and 
Design Assistant .. ~ary Queen ofScotch 
Typesetters ............................. Bruce & Tom 
next from ~y~
News Editor ................ Shotgun Chopppin Copy Editor....................................... Tommy 
Margaret, )n\~ l\ 
Sports Copy Editor.................Steve ~artin 
2nd floor, LaFortune. \'~ 11 
Editorials Layout Tari, Tari, not contrary 
Features Layout........................ ct tu, Mary' ND Day Editor......) ant: (without Tarzan) 5MC Day Editor ........... Tiny Tim & Tulips Ad Design ....................... , .... Pete Cottontail 

ili'''''''''''''''''"'''''''''''''''''''''''"''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''(;';';;':';'''''''''''':ii!:
Pbotograpbe.-............................... Edward II Guest Appearances....... "Shots" of Nyquil 
Hert' I come, summertime in Uuffalo is 
#I!!! Sister Carole Marie, C.F.S. Tim (who didn'l leave before midnight) 
da Boss 

i rt~~~ns~!~!, ....
da Rabbit 
David Letterman 
Bob Vonderheide 
Domino'~ Pizza 

The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home lootball Saturdays, except dunng exam and vacatiOn penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary"s Col­
lege Subscnphons may be purchased 
1.75

for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by 

I ~ I ~ wntlng The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The 
Associ3ted Press All reproduction 
nghts are reserved 

Second class postage pa1d at Notre 
Dame. Indiana 46556. 

:::: 
» ~ ·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·~:~ 
The Observer Wednesday, April27, 1983-page 3 

ND grad Darsee faces research fraud charge 
Affairs, said the cart was left outside transportation to handicapped non­to drive the cart. 
Flanner Hall because it was too late athletes. She said 29 students have to take it to the maintenance garage. used the service since it began. 
• • • House 


By MARY DOLAN 
News Staff 
The scientific community is call­ing for a reevaluation of the guid<:lines to research as a result of Doctor John Darsee's alleged fabrification of research data. 
Darsee, a 1970 Notre Dame graduate, is accused offalsifying data of animal experiments performed within the Cardiac Research Lab at Harvard-affiliated Brigham and Women's Hospital. 
Notre Dame Professor Julian Pleasants, who has offered informa· tion in the investigation of the .Har· vard researcher said, "At the time that I discovered that Darsee had fabricated the article he published in the Notre Dame Science Quarterly of 1969, it seemed an unnecessary kicking of a man when he's down to make the evidence public. But when the National Institute of Health's in­vestigative panel publish.ed their report in February of 1983 on Dar­see's performance at Harvard it was clear they had drawn the wrongcon­clusion because they lacked the evidence I had at hand." 
Although Darsee never was a stu· dent of Pleasants, upon hearing of the investigation, the microbiologist rememhe_n~d..a.seminar held.by.Dar· see 14 years ago summarizing his research on the extension ofthe life­span of rats. Pleasants recalled that the results were outstanding and, assuming at the time that these results represented the work of a large laboratory, did not question the findings. 
Only within the last year has Pleasants discovered that Darsee had published two articles in the student-edited Notre Dame Science Quarterly of 1969 detailing this presumed research. According to policy, both articles, "The Hormone Factor in Aging" and "Experimental Influence of Hormones on Lon­gevity and Vitality ofRats," were not subject to pre-publication review by fac11lty.:. 
In his own review Pleasants dis· covered these earlier falsifications. He states that "anyone who had even once tried to remove blood from the tail vein of a small rat would know how traumatic it is and would not have proposed twice-weekly bleed­ing." 
He further explains that the amount of hormones used for sup· plementation would have required thousands of rats, more than could be housed at Notre Dame. 
Pleasants did not forward this in· formation to Eugend Braunwald, director of the Harvard lab, until it became apparent to him that the research system was bearing too much ofthe burden ofresponsibility and that NIH had concluded that it was a case of circumstances rather than character. 
Pleasants countered that Darsee's actions were not an isolated response to the supposed "publish or perish" philosophy in the lab but that he had already invented data in response to the pressure of getting into medical school, a pressure which is not created by ad· 
ministrators  but  by  the  great  
demand for  a  limited  number of  
positions.  

In reaction to the Darsee case, the scientific community has called for a reevaluation of the guidelines of the research system. Pleasants is in· terested in seeing that NIH develops the best long-range research guidelines and does not want then to jump to the conclusion that pressure generated this lapse. 
.. Already. Darsee has been barred from receiving any NIH funds or working within any NIH community for the next 1 0 years. 
Pleasants considers the matter one of trust. If there will always be two researchers, one to watch the other, then only half as much will be accomplished. 
According to Pleasants, resear· chers with the character to ablely respond to pressure are needed. AI· though he does not deny that ex· cessive pressure might exist within a lab, he says that this cannot be blamed in Darsee's case. "This young man," he said, "seems to have an unusual ability to falsify informa­tion and get away with it." 
This past weekend, the Emory University School of Medicine, where Darsee studied medicine, dis· closed that Darsee is again suspected offalsifying papers he co­authored and even chapters in medi­cal books. A more extensive report will be released pending further in· vestigation. 
Ellery Lindquist, Mol~y Noland and Laura enjoying the sunny weather that boosted campus Hirschfeld pose for Observer photographer while morale. 
Court debates Reagan seat belt plan 
-WASHINGTON (AP)· The Reagan administration met skeptical ques· tions yesterday as it told the Supreme Court that its scrapping of a requirement for automatic seat belts in cars was justified because 
the  devices  would  not  increase  
safety.  
Solicitor  General  Rex  E. Lee,  

trying to persuade the court to over­turn a lower court ruling, said the Transportation Department should have "broad leeway" in setting auto safety standards without inter· ference from the courts. 
The government argued that when it rescinded a rule in 1981 that would have required air bags or passive seat belts in all new cars, it did so because of"substantial uncer· tainty" that airbags would be in· stalled or that seat belts would not be disconnected. 
But an insurance industry lawyer said the action put the automakers "back in the driver's seat" on safety. 
The Supreme Court is expected to decide by summer whether to over· 



Handicapped services cart 'laked' 
ByTOMMOWLE She said this was the first time the The cart was purchased by the Copy Editor cart had been left unlocked. Office of Student Affais to test the Security Director Glenn Terry feasibility of the service. Booms said A golf cart was driven into Saint said he has "no leads on who did it." she "hopes to continue service" Joseph's Lake Friday night but the He noted that the cart is still next year, but it will be evaluated identity of the persons iltvolved operable, although it sustained this summer. About 25 students, remains unknown. slight damage. mostly from Circle K, the Knights Sister Evelyn Booms, director of Booms saicl the cart service was and Ladies of Columbus, and the Office for Handicapped Stt:dent started on January 31 to provide Pasquerilla East, have volunteered 
IIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIHI 
Buy 
Observer 


classifieds 
turn-a mling by the U.S. Court ofAp-· peals that said the government had acted unlawfully in scrapping the seat belt rule and that passive belts should be installed in new cars as soon as possible. 
The government appealed the ruling to the Supreme Court, which heard arguments on the matter yes­terday. 
The heart of the government's case rests on a contention that the public does not like passive seat belts, which automatically wrap around a person entering a car, and 
that there is no evidence that motorists will not disconnect the belts and, thereby, provide no more protection than the seat belts now available. 
continuedfrom page 1 
the secretary wrote. 
Shultz said the envoy "will assist the Salvadorans in their efforts to find a basis for dialogue with their opponeRts on the terms and condi· tions for free and fair elections." 
On another front, the Chairman of the House Intelligence Commitee, Rep. Edward P. Bolan, D-Mass., has proposed to his committee the re­placement of covert CIA aid to Nicaraguan rebels with an open fund for democratic governments in the region to use to try to stop the clan­destine flow ofarms. 
Rep. C.W. Young, R-Fla., a mem­ber of the commitee, said a vote on the panel on the proposal might come as early as tomorrow. Con· gressional sources who asked not to be identified said Sen. Dave Duren· burger, R-Minn., had prepared a similar bill for the counterpart Senate committee. 
Boland himself said after a meeting with Reagan at the White House that the question was no Ion· ger one of whether the administra­tion is violating the law by supporting the rebels, but what to do next while maintaining U.S. crediblity. 
HIIHIIHINII.....HIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH 

I I
DePaul University
I 
25 East Jackson Boulevard I I Chicago, Illinois 60604 I I I
Plea·se send-me a brochure and application form for theI DePaul University CPA Review Course. I 
I I 
I Name I 
I Address I 
I I 
_____ *DePayiUniversity ---~£..! 
I  C1ty  State  Zip  I  
I  
-An equal opportumty educator and employer  

Wednesday and Thursday . 9 & 11 PM . $1 
DePaul University School ofAccountancy 
CPA REVIEW COURSE 
for the November, 1983, Examination (June 20-0ctober 28) 
The 55th offering of the DePaul University CPA Review is now accepting applications for the Summer, 1983, Review. The Review features live classroom instruction, an aii-CPNall-professor faculty, convenient Loop location and session options (MWF and TihS a.m.). and special repeat tuitions. The last 54 reviews maintained a steady: 
• 70% or over pass/condition rate • over 80 medals and awards (statewide and nationwide) 
NO review can match the coverage, the instruction. the faculty and the experience of the DePaul CPA Review Course. For infor­mation call (312) 321-8640. 
School of Accountancy 



The Observer Wednesday, April27, 1983 -page 4 

successful yesterday as the eight spelunkers were rescued. 

Education's shortcomings decried 
WASHINGTON (AP) -America has surrendered a for Educational Reform." post-Sputnik surge in the race for knowledge and com­"Our nation is at risk," the diverse, 18-member com­mitted "an act of unthinking, unilateral educational dis­mittee declared in its unanimous report. "Ifan unfriend­armament" that threatens its very future, a national ly foreign power had attempted to impose on America commission charged yesterday. the mediocre educational performance that exists 
The scathing report card on U.S. schools, from first 
grade through college, called for tougher standards, today, we might well have viewed it as an act ofwar. longer school days and higher pay for teachers to com­"As it stands, we have allowed this to happen to our­bat a "rising tide of mediocrity." selves. We have even squandered the gains in student 
The National Commission on Excellence in Educa­achievement made in the wake of the Sputnik chal­tion called upon all high schools"to emphasize five "new lenge," the Soviet Union's shocking, opening shot in basics":"four years of English, three years each of math, 1957 ofthe space race. science and social studies, a half-year of computer "We have, in effect, been committing an act of un­science, and, for the college-bound, two years of a thinking, unilateral educational disarmament." 
foreign language. The panel -including college presidents, high President Reagan summoned education and civic school principals, scholars and others -addressed its leaders to the White House later yesterday for a briefing 7,000-word report as "An Open Letter to the American 
on the report, titled "A Nation at Risk: The Imperative People." 
Attention! SOUTH DINING HALL STUDENTS You are invited to join the Alumni Board &Senate for lunch on Thursday from Noon to 2:00pm 
Students from the following states please eat in the East Section: Ind., Ky., Mich., Ill., Iowa, Mo., Minn., Wis., Ariz., So. Calif., N.M., Col., Kansas, Mont., Neb., S.D., Utah, Alaska, Northern Calif., Hawaii, Nev., Ore., & Wash. Students from the follwing areas please eat in the West Section: Fla., Ga., N.C., S.C., Ala., Ark., La., Miss., Tenn., Okla., Texas, Del., D.C., Md., Eastern Pa., Va., Conn., Maine, Mass., N.H., R.I., Vt., So. Conn., N.J., N.Y., Ohio, W.V., & Western Pa. 

AD DEADLINES Friday, April29 is the last regular issue of The Observer for this semester. A commencement issue will be published on May 13 
ADVERTISING DEADLINES 
For the April 29 issue: *Ciassifieds are due by 3pm April 28 *Display ads are due by 1pm April27 
For the May 13 issue: *Ciassifieds are due by 3pm May 12. *Display ads are due by May 2 at 1 pm. 

Three-day ordeal ends for trapped spelunkers 
MOUNT VERNON, Ky. (AP) -spelunkers had to crawl through a 
Eight explorers were rescued yes­30-foot corridor only 25 inches terday from a cavern where they high. Under normal circumstances, were trapped by floodwaters tor water stops two to three inches from three days, and said they <:racked the ceiling ofthe passageway; so that jokes and made up songs while bat­spelunkers can crawl in with their tling cold and fear. noses slightly above the water. 
"I literally shook for 48 to 50 Hissong said there was an air of hours," said Mark Rocklin, one ofthe uncertainty as they awaited rescue. six men and two women in the ex­"Until we discovered the pump 
pedition from the Greater Cincin­noise and the diver's line, we didn't nati Grotto, an Ohio spelunking know what was going on," he said. club. "There could have been no one out 
Rocklin said a fear of dying gave there for all we knew." way to the more immediate concern Hissong said the group had been of staying warm in 53-degree tem­surveying the main passage of the peratures I ,800 feet inside the caave cave and had reached its back wall. 1 
on Crooked Creek about 50 miles 1/2 miles from the entrance. Return' south of Lexington in a remote area ing, the team found that water ofsoutheastern Kentucky. blocked a low passage near the The spelunkers huddled together entrance. 
for warmth, nibbled on luncheon The group ultimately took refuge meat and wrapped themselves in on a familiar ledge 1,800 feet from plastic bags to conserve heat, Rock­the entrance. That was where divers 
lin said. They said they told jokes located them late Monday. and made up songs while waiting for The rescue, however, required help. hours of pumping water from the 
Veteran spelunker jack Hissong, cave to give the spelunkers breath­one of the co-leaders of the group, ing space in the low passage. said the decision to enter the cave The rescue team initially was 
Saturday morning during a frustrated when a diver was unable rainstorm was a "judgement call." to find any trace of the group after a 
"If I knew the water would come six-hour search. The diver found up that suddenly, it would have been himself in an 18-foot high cavern foolish to go in," Hissong said. which was nearly filled to the top 
The eight were trapped when a with water. rainstorm raised the water level, But another team ofdivers found a 
closing the entrance to the cave. handwritten note on a dry ledge They spent 72 hours below ground later Monday saying that the 
before a rescue team led them out spelunkers were alive and well. 
Tuesday shortly before noon. Rescuers began to bring the All declared themselves in good weary explorers out ofthe six-by-six condition. foot entrance of the cave about 10 To make their escape, the a.m. yesterday. 

Feds arrest two Thais in heroin interception 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Two Thai nationals were arrested and 80 pounds of nearly-pure heroin were seized in one ofthe largest heroin busts in United States history, federal investigators said Tuesday. • 
The surveillance operation went awry, when the two men dis­covered they were being followed, tipping the hand offederal agents who had hoped to trace the drugs further. 
The drugs were concealed in 10 packages mailed from Bangkok, Thailand, to 10 apartments in the Los Angeles area, said Ted Hunter, special agent in charge of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration in Los Angeles. 
The packages were intercepted by agents at an international postal center in Oakland, one of 21 centers across the United States where overseas mail is handled by the U.S. Customs Service, he said. 
Under constant supervision, the packages were routinely for­warded to the Los Angeles post offices and addressees notified there was a parcel ready for pickup, Hunter said. Agents staked out each of the l 0 post offices awaiting pickup. 
• • • Tylenol 
continuedfrom page I 
"The decisions we were making had enormous negative economic impact on Johnson &johnson," Col­lins said. "It's not everyday that a manager can make a decision that will cost his company 5100 million, but that's really what we did." 
Collins said his Notre Dame back­
ground helped him live with those 
decisions. "Notre Dame gave me a 
sense of otherworldliness. It makes 
you appreciate the values in life that 
are not defined by money or 
material progress. In our case, weal­
ways focused on the protection of 
the consumer. But in a sense, that 
focus reflected that ethical 
backbone that Notre Dame gave 
me.~' 
The Notre Dame-Tylenol connec­tion, Collins said, seemed to appear "everywhere we turned." One of Collins' first moves after hearing of the Tylenol tragedy was to call his former roommate, Paul Noland, an attorney in Chicago who had done some business for McNeill. Collins askeCI Noland to obtain as much in­formation as possible from the medi­cal examiner's office. "I needed my own eyes and ears on the situation," he said. 

In fact, Collins later met with Noland during the Miami football weekend in September to discuss what further McNeill should do. 
Collin's brother, who also went to Notre Dame, had a good friend who would eventually marry Chicago Mayor Jane Byrne, with whom Col­lins had to work closely with in coordinating McNeill's early efforts. 
Collin's son, Pat, is a sophomore; Noland's daughter, Molly, will graduate this year. 
"Notre Dame is very much a part of me," said Collins, whose father Chuck was one of the seven mules on the Notre Dame's famed Four Horseman football team. "No one's ever been able to radically define the Notre Dame spirit. But if I could ever capture the school's contribu· tion to this event, it would be very enlightening for me." jried to hide the tragedy under the facade of"no comm...nt." 
,. 


The Observer Wednesday, April 27, 1983 -page 5 
HPC proposes party admission fee 

By MIKE KRISKO 
StaffReporter 
A proposal to improve the quality of parties by charging people a one­dollar admission fee at parties in hall party rooms was approved by the Hall Presidents Council at last night's final meeting ofthe semester. 
The proposal, initiated by St. Ed­ward's Hall President Gary Strick­land, originally stipulated that a one-dollar admittance fee be charged for women entering parties in the party rooms of men's dorms and vice-versa. 
Lyons Hall President Suzy Joyce was in favor of the proposal. "It would be a good idea because it gives a non-embarrassing reason to collect money at hall parties," she said. 
Strickland, after mentioning that some women at his dorm's parties "can be as sociable as walls," indi­cated that the proposal would dis­courage party drifters. "It's insulting when drifters come in, drink their share, and then leave. Hopefully the proposal will discourage these people," he said. 
At the request of Lewis Hall Presi­dent Desiree Anagnostopoulos, HPC Chairman Mike Carlin, with the council's approval, replaced the wording "men and women" with "people" in the proposal. The coun­cil then approved it and sent it to Vice President for Student Affairs Father john Van Wolvlear. 
In other business, Student Body Vice President Peggy Prevoznik asked the presidents to encourage seniors to "earmark the t1fty-dollar deposit checks that they get back for t1nancial aid; that is, if they wish to give the money as their t1rst gift to the university." 
Prevoznik also mentioned that student government is looking for input as to how Homecoming could be improved. She added that anyone interested in becoming the chair­person of Homecoming should con­tact the student government offices. Homecoming is scheduled for the weekend ofthe Pittsburgh game. 
The Vice President asked for the council's input to a proposal that would require a laundry in a women's dorm on each quad be reserved for male use. "If one dorm gave up their laundry room for one day per week, the congestion at Badin Hall could be alleviated," she said. The council reared favorably and encouraged her to carry the issue further. 

Carlin next asked tor feedback on Li'l Sib's Weekend. The council agreed that the date needed to be an­nounced earlier so there wouldn't be as much conflict with hall formals and that a better transportation plan was needed. 
Howard Hall President Kevin O'Rear said his rector gave him the impression that "rectors don't want the weekend to happen again be­cause the kids came just for the parties. One rector suggested that it would be better for the siblings to come tor a Friday and attend a few classes since the purpose of the weekend is for them to see what the university really is." 
The chairman thanked the coun­cil tor their input and recommended that the council endorse the sending of letters thanking Sue Fleck for Li'l Sib's Weekend and Jay Reidy for An Tostal. The council unanimously agreed. 
Carlin also announced, with the council's approval, that Pat Carvajal from Pasquerilla East would be the new secretary of the HPC. 
The meeting adjourned with the council's singing "Happy Birthday" to a suprised Pat Shierwalt, the presi­dent ofPasquerilla West. 

PR chief calls for ND commitment 
By PETER CIOTTA Dame Award ofthe Year. the increase of the university's en­StaffReporter The award is the highest honor dowment from S3.5.million in 1945 given by the local Alumni organiza­to 5245 million in 1983. Frick at­
"This nation needs Notre Dame to tion to individuals who have made tributed this increase to the be the reflective consciousness of significant contributions to the uni­generosity ofthe families and friends society" said Dr. James W. Frick at versity and their community. of Notre Dame. the 60th annual meeting of the St. Frick, architect of fund raising Stating the educational objectives 
• • • Miller 
joseph County Notre Dame Alumni campaigns which have raised more of Notre Dame, Frick described Club last night at the Monogram than S300 million for Notre Dame seven priorities. Frick said that the Room. will receive an honorary degree at university desired to stimul;lte a continuedfrom page I when it was found that nearly halfof 
Frick, vice president for public graduation. curiosity about the world of the extra returns in these small t1rms 
Miller said that he is involved in a 

relations, alumni affairs and develop­Citing developments witnessed knowledge, to inspire creativity, to occured in January. and a substantial
test to determine if this "small-t1rm 
ment at Notre Dame, was the since 1945, such as the escalation of inspire a love of reading, to teach proportion of these in the first week
analogy" is just a computer
featured speaker of a program in the nuclear arms race, Frick stated, logical thinking, to teach students to ofJanuary, said Miller. 
phenomenon. A group of which Robert H. Michaud, "We have learned once again that obtain a level ofcopeability, to assist economists formed and maintained According to Miller, this "JanuaryAutomative Group Operation Coun­we are better at educating students in developing some sense of direc­a portfolio ofthe smallest 20 percent anomaly" is not unique to the U.S.,
sel for the Bendix Corporation and than at solving problems." Describ­tion, and to deepen and broaden of the market, to test the perfor­
but occurs in almost all countries1950 Notre Dame graduate, was ing Notre Dame's commitment to awareness of those things truly 
mance of these stocks in the real with a stock market. "We do not atpresented The University of Notre quality education Frick pointed to meaningful. 
world, said Miller. 
the moment have any kind of
Calling on the alumni and friends 
After 15 months, Miller noted that plausible clue" as to the cause ofthis
of Notre Dame to remain dedicated 
although the real-world fund has not anomaly, Miller stated.
to the University, Frick stated, 
performed as well as the computer
Colombian drug queen 
"Notre Dame has a very public com­
fund, the portfolio has performed The "January anomaly" is a major mitment to ethics and values." He 
much better than could be concern of researchers today, said added, "Notre Dame is built on 
predicted from existing paradigms. Miller. "It's there," he said, "I just 
thought and pride and hope and

led smuggling 'family' 
Another anomaly was uncovered wish I knew why." 
skill, Notre Dame is built ofsacrifice 
MIAMI (AP) -U.S. drug agents used. "Not that she's high class. She and tears." speak soberly of Veronica Rivera de survives because she has jungle Frick, explaining that the Univer­Vargas, Martha Libia Cardona de agility. And because she is ruthless sity was interested in its quality and 
~~--~J:!~:--~ 
Gaviria, and Marta Ospina -three to her enemies." not in its size, said the work ofNotre Colombian crime queens, The DEA suspects Rivera de Dame could be judged best by the 
I ass t manaq€Rs 1&Rt€nb€Rs 1 OooRm€n 
matriarchs of rival Latin American Vargas' eight brothers and sisters of type of individual it produces. Frick gangs they say have smuggled bil­complicity in narcotics smuggling, called the student body "one of the ! Apply Tonight, 5:00 
lions ofdollars worth ofnarcotics in­along with 88 other members of her most remarkable anywhere." 
to the United States. extended crime family. She is so 
"They are the black widows. And cold-blooded. the Bolivian daily El like the spiders, the female of the Tiempo said, she gave a death squad species can be especially deadly," orders to liquidate the leader of a says one Drug Enforcement Ad­rival cocaine clan, then to kill his ministration intelligence agent sent parents-in-law. to Columbia to survey illegal drug Her fatal flaw, the DEA agent said, rings. may have been that ruthlessness. 
Rivera de Vargas, 39, toured the "She became a social threat." streets of Bogota in her BMW, Rivera de Vargas now resides in a sandwiched between two Mercedes Bogota jail. She was arrested Feb. 1 1 packed with bodyguards. She owned on charges of cocaine smuggling at an ice cream parlor and crystal shop herfinca 200 miles south of Bogota in a fashionable capital mall and gar­with 14 associates, including two landed her wrists with emeralds and members of the Colombian national gold. police, said DEA spokesman Brent 
Eaton.

At the same time, she was mas­Agents seized six weapons,terminding the importation of including two machine guns, andcocaine, worth as much as S3 bil­290 pounds of cocaine valued atlion, past Customs inspectors at air­S6.6 million. It was destined forports in the United States, federal Miami. Rivera de Vargas waved aagents say, and running drug fac­Florida driver's license. and told
tories on a network of finccJs, or 
police they had nabbed the wrongfarms. where cocaine paste from woman -to no avail.

Peru was transformed into ex­''She seemed to have a lot of in­portable white gold. 
fluence in the past," said Eaton. "But 

''She was true royalty," said the she became so big and violent, I DEA intelligence agent, who spoke think the Colombian government only on condition her name not be could no longer tol_erate her.;: 
~ -•. .#. .. ~ ....:rtlt,.'%1.\t:1..'-. ---. 
Mr. C. T. Parmerlee Private Detective 
Parmerlee Detective Agency 

530 1/2 Carroll St.. Apt. B South Bend, IN 46601 
(219) 288-6621 
_ENGINEER GRADUATES 
COMPUTER GRADUATES 

BUSINESS GRADUATES A Robot•cs Trammg Program from Sheffteld School IN Ill enhance your JOb posstbtlittes and gtve you an edge over your competitton tor the better paymg JObs. 
Robot•cs w•ll be the second fastest grow•ng tndustry up untiJ 1990 and fhe fastest growmg mdustry thereafter. The U.S. alone wtll repre­sent a $2 blllton-a-year market for robottcs. Today's engtneenng, computer and bustness adm•mstratlon graduates w1ll be required to understand the vanous appllcauons of thts excttmg new h1gh technology held. 
For further details and class re.-rv11ions 
writ• SHEfFIELD SCHOOL. P.O..Box 66-10111. Miomi, Fl 33266, or collf305) 592·8080. 
1............................................................................."..............................................1 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for ND/SMO students (&x lOspace $18.80permonth) 
CALL 259·0335 to RESERVE SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKIXLEY 816 East Me Kinley 
Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 



r-mb:-~~;ntii;;~-::;;1 
I .. Haircut, Shampoo, II r~ ::-" Blow Dry, & Condition I I ·-·~ Reg.$15 I 
54533Terrace Lane,S.B. NOW $8 50 WITHCOuPoNI 
Across from Martin's on St. Rd.23 •
I I 
Tues. Wed, Sat 8:30-5:30 H • t I $6 w1rH
I Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30 a1rcu on y COUPON. 
1272-0312 277·1691 I
HAIRMUSTBEWASHEDDAYOFCUT 
~---------------­
--~ -----~--­





Editorials 
Wednesday, April27, 1983-page 6 
Saluting An Tostal 
Every spring, graduation and exams set the mood for seniors and those who would like to be seniors. But between the thaw ofice and snow and the thaw of frozen minds, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame pause to celebrate spring. An Tostal this year was, much as it has been for many years, a tradition against tradition. 
On campuses where all-night study sessions and homework are the weekday norms, An Tostal gives students and faculty a chance to relax ainid mud-filled fields basketball-cluttered courts, and 60 degree sunshine. 
If there is anything for which An Tostal stands, it is fun, complete with the primordial cries of the "unofficial" Thursday night scream, the tearing eyes of a hot chili eater, and good-humored taunts of charioteers. No matter what the game, contestants celebrated the fun of freeing themselves of their inhibitions; the only fools were those who chose not to participate. 
A hundred men and women, led byJay Reidy at Notre Dame and by Mary Anne Daher and Therese McDonald at Saint Mary's, gave up free time (and occasional­
ly classes) to put together more than 30 wacky events. For nothing more than the sheer enjoyment of contributing their effort, these volunteers gave their fellow students a chance to laugh, shout, and most importantly, relax. 
To recognize the selfless efforts of volunteers and spirited competition of participants in An Tostal, The Obseroer urges the University and College to suspend classes on the Friday afternoon ofAn Tostal week. Faculty and students alike realize classes alone make Jane and John dull students. 
As students prepare for these last two weeks of school, they must remember that their studies, while important, do allow time for the occasional laugh or toss of the frisbee. It is spring; don't let exams spoil the fun. 

One week from today, the Roman Catholic bishops of this country will meet in Chicago to decide whether or not to ratify the third draft oftheir pastoral letter, "The Challenge of Peace: God's Promise and Our Response." Throughout the earlier drafts of the letter, the bishops state their hope that this letter will not be left to "sit on the shelf' but will instead be studied by and shared with the Roman Catholic populace of this country. 
Kevin Walsh 
Guest Columnist 
In this series of articles, 1 hope to share some of what the bishops are saying, along with others' and my own insights about peace, 
while applying that to two areas of concern which arc very close to us here at Notre Dame: the ROTC program and registration for 
the selective service. 
In this tirst article, I will address the issue of the morality ofhaving the institution of ROTC at a Catholic university such as Notre Dame, and I hope to do so in light of the bishops' statement to Catholic youth. The pastoral 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~•ae~··we~kyou(youili)to&udycarefully 
' 



English: all there is 

Meeting foreigners in America has rarely made me comfortable. Without knowing any­thing about a person, I suddenly feel very small when that person speaks English with an accent. 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 

Last Sunday, while walking on a deserted downtown street in Chicago, a couple ap­proached me. The woman spoke first. In a French accent as heavy as olive oil, she asked me if I wanted to accompany her and her hus­band to a dinner. At first, I was stunned -why would anyone ask me to dinner off the street? And then my eyes caught a pamphlet on the Unification Church. 
After both of them introduced themselves, the man asked me if I was American. I rememeber my response distinctly: "Yes, but I must apologize." Somehow I was ashamed to speak only in English to two persons, both fluent in three languages. 
After the initial confession of cultural ig­norance, I explained I was on my way back to school and could not come to their ·home for dinner that night. While I was relieved I had escaped the grip of a Mooney, an uneasiness still gripped me as I said goodbye and con­tinued walking to my train. 
Up until a few minutes before that meeting, I was happily thinking about an essay I was to write for class, an essay in English for an American literature class. And suddenly the insulating bubble burst amid the needles of my deficiencies. 
We Americans are lucky. In an area the size of Europe, there is one official language. Europe boasts over 100 languages and dialects. The most the United States can boast are isolated pockets of Poles, Cajuns, and Chinese. 
But as American urban dwellers encounter the fastest row in lanuage in the world, Spanish, many realize the days ofthe "melting pot" are over. English is no longer required, only accepted. 
Few cultures hide their roots today. Days when an immigrant family forbid the speaking of the native tongue in the home are over. First generation and later descendants are reasserting the beauty and creativity of mot­her tongues. Bilingualism is accepted as an art form which communicates the links of cultures often thought to be so different. 
But while individual pockets of culture progress toward a sense of universal brother­hood, dumb Americans like me lie idle in a world of laziness and fear, demanding that every book be translated into the self­proclaimed modern-day equivalent of Latin. 
I pride myself on standardized test scores and grades. And while I can outperform many of my foreign counterparts, I cannot take the same test or course in two languages. 
Even when Americans lose their inhibitions and travel overseas, they take with them not only a phrase book and dictionary, but a singlemindedness characteristic of imperial Great Britain. 
I still dread a planned trip to the Continent this summer because I can express myself in English only, and quite imperfectly at that. But the fear of another language is often as un­founded as fear of the dark. 
A scene in the movie Breaker Morant, the main character asks an interprter to ask a Boer prisoner his name. The translator turns to the Boer and asks in Afrikaans, "Vat is your nom?" To say the least, commmon sense is many times what counts. 
Not only do Americans feel afraid of un­known alphabets, but of letters which look and sound just like English. To which we ask, "If it's just like English, why don't they just speak English?" 
And even when we acknowledge our cul­tural failings, there is not very much a 21-year­old man can do to relive his childhood period where memorization was so much simpler and concepts like grammar were the practical reminders of conversation, not the rigid typeface ofgrey-haired scholars. 
I guess the only solution is to go, to squirm 
among unknown tongues and find out how 
much I do not know. It's harder to risk embar­
rassment, but I'm finding it's the only way. 


ROTC at Notre Dame: Conflict ofinterests? 
the teaching of the Church and the demands of the Gospel about war and peace. We en­courage you to seek careful guidance as you reach conscientious decisions about your civic responsibilities in the age of nuclear military forces." 
The essential message which Jesus taught can be discovered both in the Gospel and in the records of the early Christian com­munities. It is one of peace without com­promise. Jesus did not speak of self-defense (rather, of"turning the other cheek"), nor did he belong to the Zealot movement, whic: consisted ofJewish nationalists who were wii­ling to use violence to rid the land of Roman occupation and thereby gain their basic human rights and freedoms. In the first few centuries, before the Church allied itself with the state at the time of Constantine, pacifism was a basic Christian moral stance. No Chris­tian could be in the military and receive all the sacraments, such as communion, from the Church. 
As Christians, we are followers of Christ (few of us consider ourselves Augustinians or Thomists,) and as such, we must strive to un­derstand the central Gospel message ofpeace, something about which our teacher, Jesus Christ, took a very radical stance. Seen in that light, ROTC may be a compromise of a basic Christian Principle seen in the Gospel, namely the rejection ofphysical violence, and as such a compromise, ROTC should not be sup­ported by or maintained at a Catholic institu­tion such as Notre Dame. 
Let me first state a bit of my hesitancy in 
writing such an article. First ofall, some ofthe 
students here for whom I hold utmost respect 
are in ROTC. In fact, my roommate of two 
years ago was in the Army ROTC and won one 
of its top honors that year. I respect him very 
much, and we've continued to converse about 
various peace-related Issues since he's been at 
Ft. Lewis in Washington. With friends like him, 
I do not make the mistake of srereotypically 
classifying ROTC members as "warmongers," 
"babykillers," or other "villains." He and many 
other friends who are now in ROTC maintain 
a very strong Christiafi faith, and I do not 
doubt their sincerity in that faith. Thus, I will 
try not to be self-righteous in my critique, nor 
will I judge individual members in ROTC; in­
stead, I will offer my criticisms of an institu­
tion, ROTC, which I believe has no place at a 
Catholic university. Much of the first part of this article is a reflection on the recent February issue of Scholastic, in which "Both sides of the wall" between "Notre Dame and the Military" were examined. I specifically respond to the article, "The ROTC Alternative." Above the title reads, "One out ofevery ten students at Notre Dame is in the ROTC program -a percentage higher than any other college in the country." To a person like myself who would like to con­sider himself a pacifist, this frrst fact is among the most disturbing and leads one to ask the obvious question, why? The author then spent the next several paragraphs, well over one half of the article, outlining the benefits and "opportunities afforded by a military posi­
tion."  Some  of  those  benefits  included:  
"financial  assistance"  (money)  offered  
through  the  ROTC  scholarships,  the  
"opportunity  to  join  superior  flying  
programs,"  "enjoyment  of  commission,"  

"chance for travel," "job opportunities," "internship experience," and "a wealth of other benefits." Thus, the apparent answer to the question "Why are so many students joining ROTC at Notre Dame?'' would be the "wealth ofbenefits and opportunities" offered them once they do join. 
I'm a bit disappointed in such an answer. If, as I have proposed as a basic premise, Jesus' stance was one of a pacifist and thus a central concern of his was the uncompromising promotion and maintenance of peace, and if the ROTC program, in preparing the student for war "if necessary," is not in line with that central message of peace, then I would hope that a Christian's reasons for joining such a program would go beyond materialistic ones such as "good commissions," "superior flying programs," or even "educational scholar­ship." I'm reminded ofJesus' oft-repeated line from the Gospel (though I'm sure that my quoting it in this context may be controver­tible), "For what does it profit a man, to gain the whole world and forfeit his life" ( Mk 8:36). 

A HEAVY WEIGHT TO BARE 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~----·-·-David Dziedzic 
Saint Mar} ·s f.ditor ..................Anne Monastyrski Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ....................... Margaret Fosmoe Sports fiaitor ................................Michael Riccardi 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect News Editor.............:::.................Bob Vonderheide Photo Editor..........•...............................Scott Bower the polictes of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­News Editor.................................... Mark Worscheh curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon of a 
Department Managers
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present 

Business Manager ........................... Daniel O'Hare Production Manager................Suzanne La Croix
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 

Comroller...............................................Alex Szilvas Circulation Manager.........................Mack Miouo
anct the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Advertising Manager................ :·········Chris Owen s_,stems Manager..............................Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3, 1966 
----~~--------~--~---------~--­

~~S tt0 W C fi_S_E
____---=-=W=e=dn=-es-=da-----y,_Ap_ril_2_7,_19_83_p_age__7 
--~~ --~--------­

----------------~------~~--------------------~~----~------------------~--------~--~~---~ 
~ ~ -. • -•.. ~ -,.,. 1 -; 


Tips for detecting nuts 


O
ne day it happens -you wake up shaking uncon­trollably, spittle spouting from your mouth, you at­tempt to say something, but instead all you can manage is a manic giggle. You have gone insane. 
Before you know it, worried friends have called the home. Soon you find yourselfbouncingoffpadded walls and wearing a nice white garment known as a straight jacket. Things aren't bad for long, though. After a few quick injections and a few doses of high wattage to the t:ranium, everything is beautiful. You settle back to a life tilled with numb thoughts and hours spent finger­painting ducks. 
For all too many people, the pressures oflife can result in lunacy. While the sad scene depicted above is admittedly a worst case event, we arc all susceptible to 

confused and vetbose 

some degree ofgoing bonkers. Fortunately, you don't have to wait until you or someone you love won't stop sucking their thumb; there are early warning signs to look for. 
( 1 ) Terminal sleep: Persons suffering from this sad af­fliction cannot wake up -in fact they don't want to wake up, because doing so would mean facing the world. Instead they sleep for hours on end, getting up only so that they can take a nap. Many times these people are sly about their symptoms. They sneak off to isolated carrels in the library, or pay to snooze in the back ofdarkened theaters. In extreme instances, these people have been known to go into walking trances. One portion ofthe brain feels so guilty for inactivity that it subliminally attempts to appear active. Do not awaken a victim of this ailment, as they may become 
violent or try to kiss you. So far there is no solid evidence supporting the theory that a high number of philosophy majors are so afflicted. 
(2) Burnt candle syndrome: Named for the classic "burning the candle at both ends syndrome." This is the exact opposite of terminal sleep -victims cannot 
Gone Bananas 
B
ananarama is a new British group that is fronted by three female vocalists whose lighthearted approach is evident in their name; a fact which leader Siobhan Fahey stated when she remarked, "We just wanted a silly name that expressed enjoyment and lightheartedness. Our first single was sung in Swahili, so we thought of something tropical -bananas -and added the "rama" because it sounded sil­
..

ly. 
They take their music a little more seriously than it would appear by that comment, as Fahey informed a British newspaper when she said, "We don't see ourselves as the 80's version ofThe Supremes by any means. What we're doing is something new -three girls who are just vocalists, yet in charge ofeverything they do. There's no 
Pat Beaudine 
te~otd 1•vlew 

precedent at all." Maybe they give themselves too much credit in that quote because they aren't as charming or half as rocking as The Go Go's, for instance, but their debut album, Deep Sea Skiving, ex· emplifies some potential and talent as it contains a few good pop/rock songs. 
The first side of the album has both of their British hits, ·:He Was Really Say!n' Sometllin'" and "Shy Boy (Don't It Make You Feel Good)," and also includes an emotionally captivating song entitled "What A Shambles" that highlights the disc. Although those songs aren't exactly spectacular or as totally unprecedented a~ Fahey claims, they are still good for what they're worth: entertaining and enjoyable pop. "Doctor Love" is also on the first side ofDeep Sea Skiving and the only reason why it is worth listening to, besides the fact that it's written by ex-Jam member Paul Weller, is the soulful background singing ofbaritone phenom Brian Roney and the bass playing oface guitarist Dan Poorman, who surprisingly receive no credit on the album cover. 
The second side, like the first, is highlighted by a couple of prominent rock songs:"Hey Young London," a tribute to their home town, and the follower, "Young at Heart." What sets them apart is their style and entertainment value. 
Other than that, the rest of the songs are somewhat indistin­guishable and dominated by cliches that are apparent from songs like "Shy Boy" and "Boy Trouble." "Shy Boy" is especially notable for its familiar story in which a girl meets a shy boy and turns his life around; a relationship which is clear when they sing,"He used to be a shy boy/ till I made him my boy/ Never missed a heartbeat/ sitting in the backseat." Further in the song they also sing, "Every minute we're together/ seems to last forever/ ...he gives me love like no one else." Another well trodden idea. "Boy Trouble" contains still more redundant cliches. In quotes like, "He wants to take me out somewhere/ Got tickets for a show/ I say I've got to wash my hair/ Cos' I don't want to go/ Boy trouble-I think he's here to stay/ Boy trouble-I wish he'd go away," the listener really wonders if they are doing something unprecedented and new. 
Also, many rock fans might have trouble accepting their music be· cause ofthe pop sound that is sometimes more suited for the Izod gang than traditional rock tastes. Some of Banarama's songs are mediocre at best, like "Cheers Then" which might cure any case of insomnia, and "Na Na Hey Hey, Kiss Him Goodbye" which never . really gets off the ground. Surprisingly so, because that No. 1 hit for Steam many years back could have added to the album. 
Other than that, Deep Sea Skiving is, on the whole, periodically successful although it isn't as good as some ofThe Go Go's material. Even though that comparison might seem unfair, it is unavoidable because both groups play commercially appealing music and are both all-girl groups. In other words, ifyou don't like the Go Go's you might not like Bananarama, but ifyou do, then Bananarama's d::but album might be a satisfying experience. 
FLASHDANCE: little dance, less flash 
I
nsulted once more by the."B" grade motion pictures which haunt the cinema in the springtime and enraged by the ineptitude of film critic Gene Siskel, I have refused to do a film review this week. The cause?Flasbdance, a poorly made motion picture meant to tap into the MTV vein, onto which Siskel at­tached his name and three stars. The TV lights must be getting hot. 
Thus, I have asked an engineer friend of mine, Steve Strakowski, to reviewFiashdance for me. Ifthere 

Not D. Chalifour 
movie teview 

are any calls I'll be at the Dunes. 
As an engineer, I know how those like myself are barely able to ap· preciate the artwork in a Donald Duck Comic Book, much less distin­guish varying degrees offilm excel­lence (unless the movie happens to deal with formulae, variables, and that type ofstuff). However, upon seeing the filmFiashdance, it is quite obvious that it takes no expert to watch this movie miss its steps. 
Briefly, the movie is the story ofa girl named Alexandra Uennifer Beals) striving to fulfill her dreams of joining the Pittsburgh Dance Company. By day, she works as a welder, trying to earn the money she'll need to put herselfthrough dance school. By night, she performs in a local new wave nightclub called Mawby's Bar, your typical blue col­lar hangout. Ifyou've seen Rocky or Saturday Night Fever this should all sound very familiar, with the excep­tion that this time the story is told through the eyes ofa woman~ There is certainly a lot ofpotential in this 
sleep. However, for all the hours spent somewhat lucid, 
these folks get nothing done. They are veterans oflate­
night television. Bloodshot eyes prowl listings for clas­sic old movies. They are not above watching episodes of "Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea," and "Sea Hunt." Critical cases can identify all the episodes of the above 
aquatic disasters. Daytime finds these loons yelling price hints to corpulent housewives on "The Price is Right," and cryingover the latest illegitimate pregnancy on a soap. Meanwhile, classes, papers, projects, and tests drift into academic oblivion. 
( 3 ) Twisted eating habits: There are several eating disorders that are illnesses in their own right; however, other eating patterns that on the surface seem "just kind ofstrange" can forshadow real raving. Everyone has quirks like bananas and peanut butter, or ice cream on saltines, but how about combinations like ice cream and salami, or whipped cream on that beefand pea pod stuff? Not only is that gross to look at, but it indicates a real loss ofreason. Late-night binges can be significant as well. Sudden cravings for substances normally un­available at odd hours of the morning, followed by maniacal trips to 7-1 1, are sure signs ofan impending break-down. In one sad case, a boy was known to drive all the way to Hammond for a sack of"sliders" from White Castle. 
The examples offered above are by no means the only symptoms ofinsanity. However they offer a good clue as to where to start looking. Even if someone's insanity does not manifest itself in a way requiring help from the medical community, it can still be present. Some ofthe looniest individuals claim complete sanity. They do this while popping pills to calm imagined maladies. Worse yet, many of those professionals charged with helping the demented have all-night movies and salami ice cream waiting at home. 
The best cure, should you find yourselftaking leave of the norm, is to look in the mirror, remember all the people responsible for driving you nutty (including yourself), and vow not to let them get you. In fact you could even have a nice chat with yourselfon the sub­ject, and then retire to a trunk room for a three-day snooze. 
idea, but it is never realized. 
The main problem with this film is the total lack ofcharacter develop­ment in Alexandra. We are at first presented with a very moral young woman whose only sins oflate are confessed as "telling a lie" and "thinking about sex." Furthermore, though her welding boss, Nicky (Michael Nouri), wishes to date her, she refuses, thinking it is not right. Suddenly, she changes her mind and on her first date, after getting a pizza, she strips in front him ready for ac­tion. Everyone still coherent in the theatre was left wondering what had happened to the old character. From this point on, character incon· gruities in Alexandra are almost as frequent as changes in scenery, and the lead is developed into a per· sonality that is totally unbelievable. After one particular restaurant scene involving Alex and Nicky, I was left wondering whether director Adrian Lyne and screenwriter Tom Hedley had gone to Big Dan's Bar in New Bedford, Massachusetts to ask some ofthe individuals there to help them describe the perfect woman. 
Although one could possibly get used to this ridiculous anomaly ofa character, the total lack ofconflict in the film makes one so unattached that periodic peeks at your watch become the focus ofthe film's nar· rative movement. In Rocky, we are presented with a man driven to win, working hard, suffering, sweating. Saturday Night Fever features a man climbing out of the ghetto, growing and maturing. InFiasbdance, we fol­low a woman who seems to be right where she belongs. We only see her practice once, and then we are treated to stylized close-ups ofher jogging feet and bouncing hips. The camera simply refuses to give her room to move. In her welding job, not once is there any conversation to indicate a conflict or any sort of relationship between herselfand her fellow workers. At Mawby's, she is happy and encouraging but never restless or wanting to move out. When she finally does get her chance, she rejects it upon discover­ing there was some outside help. In turn, no one in the audience was rooting for Alexandra as they would for someone like Rocky Balboa. 

In spite ofall this, there are a couple ofbright spots. First, the dance routines developed by Alex and her fellow workers are very good. They are in fact so good, that in spite of rather poor editing, the audience is able to see the talent emanating from performers who probably should not have touched this film in the first place. If these routines had been done on MTV, for example, they'd be extraordinary. Here, they are simply out ofplace. The second bright point is the character ofGrunt, Alexandra's dog. Grunt is played by a dog-actor named jumbo Red, and somehow, he manages to stay out of the stupidest scenes. He apparently has 
a better manager. 

My recommendation for this film is simple. If, on some weekend night, you find yourselfwith absolutely no­thing to do and you've got four dol­lars which you don't really need, and you really enjoy watching contem­porary dance numbers, then just be glad you're not stuck watching Flasbdance. Use the money to buy a book, put gas in your car, or throw in the alligator pond at the Brookfield Zoo. Or, better yet, stay home and study. 
Wednesday, April27, 1983-page 8




Sports Brie.{§ 

c===~======~==============================~
by The Obserz,er and The AJJocipted PreJJ 


Another first Will OCCUr at Notre Dame Stadium 
this Saturday when two women's teams, interhall champion Farley Hall and runner-up Pasquerilla East, will play after the Blue-Gold game. Farley comes into the game with a 7-2 record. The team lost two games in regular season play last fall, before winning both games to capture the title. PE also had a winning season, making the playoffs for the second time in only its second season before losing to Farley, 8-0, in the final game. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club will host the second 
annual Clean and Sweep Regatta for club members this weekend. Interested members should attend tonight's meeting in the boat­house at 6:30. Everyone is welcome to attend. -The Obsenier 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletesis 
sponsoring an evening with assistant basketball coachJohn Shumate. The presentation will be held in the library lounge tonight at 
8. The FCA promotes Christian fellowship in the hope that it will be shared with the entire community. All are invited to attend the presentation. -The Observer 
NUL Hockey Playoffs resumed last night in two 
cities. In Boston, the New York Islanders continued their quest for their fourth straight cup as they defeated the Boston Bruins by the score of 5-2. Tomas Johsson, Mike Bossy and Duane Sutter scored goals within a decisive seven minute span in the second period, and the Islanders hung on in the opening game of the Wales Conference final round. Billy Smith kicked out 30 shots for the winners. In. Ed­monton, Wayne Gretzsky and Co. scored eight goa!~ for the second game in row as the Oilers won by the score of8-2 over the Chicago Black Hawks. -AP 
The San Antonio Spursdefeated the Denver Nug­gets last night by the score of 152-133 to go up 1-0 in their series. The 285 points scored broke a National Basketball Association Record for most points scored in a playoff game. George Gervin led all scorers with 42 points whileJohnny Moore chipped in 24 for the Spurs. Denver's Alex English had 26 points for the losers. -AP 

Baseball likely 

Elway. tells Kush of his mistake 
SAN JOSE, Calif (AP) -Rated by NFL scouts as one ofthe best passing prospects ever to come out of col­lege, John Elway said yesterday he was disappointed that Baltimore did not complete a trade for him with one of the West Coast teams he preferred. 
"We have the same position we had previously," said Colts Coach Fank Kush, "We drafted him with the idea of playing in Baltimore and we maintain that position." 
Elway's father, San Jose State foot­ball coach Jack Elway, said he told Kush twice in person and then sent a letter telling him that John wouldn't play for Baltimore. Elway said the hung up." 
"We've given all the reasons why we picked him," said Ernie Accosri, Colts general manager, in declining further comment. 
Elway, a versatile passer who can throw from the pocket or hit receivers cross-field on the run, set NCAA career records with 774 com­pleted passes, 1,246 attempts and the lowest percentage of passes in­tercepted. 
Although his Stanford teams were mediocre and never played in a postseason bowl game, Elway set 17 Pacific 10 records. In 1982, he com­pleted 262 of 405 passes for 3,242 yards and 24 touchdowns. 

• • • 'little guys' 
continuedfrom page 12 
the twice-weekly Sorin intrahall league at Moreau Seminary run by assistant rector Fr. Monk Malloy, a former Notre Dame basketball player. 
But life is not all jumpshots and di~h-offs for Nanni. He spent last summer in Washington as an intern for New York senator Daniel Moynihan, and will return to Capitol Hill this summer to work on the presidential campaign of Democratic senator Gary Hart of Colorado. 
"I was recruited by some small colleges," says Nanni, who may just use his outgoing personality and Italian good looks to enter politics someday. "But I'm glad I came to Notre Dame because it allowed me to see what my other interests are besides basketball." 
Nanni could be seen with a smile on his face throughout the pressure­packed final games. His philosophy is simple, but unfortunately not uni-Colts were offered three top draft choices plus other players by San Diego, but they tuned· it down. He said the Los Angeles Raiders also ot: fered three first round choices. 
"We're not challenging the draft," Jack Elway said. "All our dealings were honest and staightforward ... I hope that Coach Kush doesn't mistake good manners for weak­ness." 
The younger Elway said he spoke with Kush immediately after the draft. 
"I don't want to be a jerk, but I told Mr. Kush 'You've been offered three ones and a quarterback, and now you have nothing.' and then I 
versally followed during Booksrore. 
"We juM go out and enjoy our­selves," he says. "I would rather play with close friends and lose than join a team ofstrangers and win it all." 
Larry "Bubba" Cunningham, US -The quickest guard in the tournament, Bubba ran -literally -the US attack. He engineered the fast break that helped register one of the most impressive wins of the tournament, a 21-3 trouncing of Three Beers and Two Grape Nehis Please in the sectional finals to reach the Sweet 16. 
"That's the way I've always played," says Cunningham, who holds the career scoring record at Naples( Fla.) High School, where he played three years of varsity ball. "We weren't as competitive as teams up north or in Miami or Orlando, but we weren't bad." 
Bubba plays year round -in sum­mer leagues in Florida. and at the Rock four or five nights a week at Notre Dame. 
An accounting major with law 
school aspirations. Cunningham will put his quick hands to good use in another capacity next year. Last month, he was named Head Manager ofSenior Bar for the 1983-84 school year. 
Of course, there are others that richly deserve mention -Casey Newell, Pete Smith, John Stein, Dan Absher, and others. I even found myself rooting for Mike Prevoznik of US, even though four years ago he hit two key free throws to help knock my high school team out of the Pennsylvania state tournament. 
But the afore'mentioned four wert: my favorites, standing out in a tournament where sentiments ran high and sentimental favorites were plentiful. 
It may be a few years until we see a repeat of Bookstore XJI, and until then we should remember 1983 as the year when Bookstore finallv reached its goal -when the littl~ guys took on the big guys . _ . 
And won. 




Classifieds 

ONE MORE TRY!!  Faculty  or Grad  Students.  4 Bedroom  I'm  looktng  for  someone  tnterested  tn  I  desperately  need  fove  TICKETS  for  Students  Interested  1n  workmg  on  the  
NOTICES  Were you at St Ed's formal before Easter? Dtd you walk out m the wrong shoes? I  House. fully furnoshed woth washer/dryer. Noce! $400/month 288-3109  traveling around Europe for awhtle 1n June and July Euraol Pass. hostels. back­ GRADUATION EXERCISES. Please call Phol at277-1759 Thanks.  transfer onentat1on comm1ttee for the Fall of 83 please call Moke Hennessey at  
have your navy Red Cross shoes, but I  packs. etc Call Jeff 1764  #1152.  
prefer  my  own  navy  Upstage  5-BEDROOM STUDENT RENTAL $400.  
'YPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  shoes .. please trade back!' Call Loz 6825 I cannot wear yours!!!  at  233-6779  GOING TO COLUMBUS. OHIO ON MAY 9th?  I DESPERATELY WANT TO SEE CAR­DINAL BERNARDIN !I! and my best  To the wattress and mattre d. at Chez  
fYPING, Jackie Boggs, 684-8793. ~-:-Jard~ng horses. 1 m1. from N.D. Covered drena. 277-5828 (rong 12x) TYPING -Pro'~sstonal and expenenced .n all phases oftypong Call Sue 277-3878.  LOST/STOLEN · FROM CHANCE TO DANCE AT STEPAN CENTER. Froday noghl, 4/22/83 broghl turqu01se Jacket containing all my keys. Please return at least the keys -they are all very Impor­tant Call 284-4307. No questoons asked. You can even keep the jacket  Clean furnoshed for 3-4 students. 931 N Notre Dame After 6 p m. 232-0535. To Sublet One Bedoom Apt. Completely Furntshed, Great Safe Locatton on Rovesode Dr Rent Negotoable. Call Sean. 289-9309 For Summer storage  Don't have too much stuff? Interested m shanng cost of rent·a-car? If so. call Dan x1501 WANTED Photos of THE KINETICS at the Beaux Arts Ball Rock 233-6068. Need a rode to BAL­TIMORE/WASHINGTON area on May  froend os graduatong I woll pay BIG BUCKS for a TICKET TO GRADUATION Call Gus at 283-1215 alter 6 pm before graduatton !!!! COMPUTER PROGRAMMERS WILL FIX YOUR GRADES OR PAY$$$ FOR GRADUATION TIX  Gerard Merct beaucoup! JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS TAKE A STUDY BREAK TONIGHT ATCHAUTAUOUA1030-1130 IT'S AN ICE CREAM CONE PARTY!  
7ypong ALL KINDS Aher 6 p.m. 277­3534. rlousesotters avaolable June-August hesponstble marned couple w1ll ex­change light matntenance for hous1ng. Call Roberta 237-4444 from 8-5. MAKE YOUR SCHOOLS OUT PARTY A c,:.1ASH. LET CREATIVE AUDIO PLAN :HE MUSIC FOR YOUR NEXT GREAT  LOST· A brown cowboy halon LaFortune lobby on Aprol 11 If found please call Steve at283-8281. LOST· Blue nylon wallet Somatome Froday near Holy Cross. Reward Call Paul3163. LOST one paor of whole. Pony basketball  call 283·3204 10 or 11 Woll share usual. Jom -277 • close to campus· secure~ plenty of space 0992 ---share 1t w1th a fnend and save--­I FOR SALE WANTED I FOR SALE BY OWNER Near Notre'-------------..J Dame 2-bedroom brock house. fenced yard Many extras. $37,000 Days 232­ CALL ART OR KARL 1682 PERSONALS 1982 ND GRAD seeks fonancoal assos­ To the best Texan ever (no comment) Crown Pornt IS gotng to m1ss you! Pasadena os pretty lucky l'lltnonk of you on the Rovoera. Actually. I'll moss you on the R1v1era G1ve Snoopy a hug whenever you I honk at your Beagle Love, JJB  
·., ·AE CALL 277-6046 MORNINGS Baggage to New York re..<e your bokes. rugs, bags. & boxes woth 1uu when you go -watch tor mto tn the •11811.  shoes between Zahm and St Ed·s. on Sunday, Aprol 23 about 4 00. Please call Brad of found. 8920. My feet are cold FOUND on North Quad area, a man's rong Call Jeff or TomS. at1764  Anyonecomong back on June 18th or 19th tram the Washongton D.C area? Want to wok out a rode? Call Kathleen at2946 FEMALE NEEDS ROOMMATE FOR SUMMER SUBLET IN CHICAGO. LiN­ 2031. ask for Sylvoa Other tomes 288­6134or239·7771 WEDDING DRESS and veol · Beautoful qoana. soze 11-12 287-8428 aher 5  tance tor Dental School (loans or any other aod) excellent tax break (312) 595-0215 59 Hamollon St Bensenvolle, 11160101  HAPPY BIRTHDAY JACK GIBBONS LOVE. IGUANA  
NY METRO CLUB  COLN PRK APT GREAT VIEW OF LAKE  WINDSURFER FOR SALE USED ONE  
LOST Gray ND sweatshort woth sleeves  CALL4418  YEAR $400 CALL MARK-8810  Easten Airlines ts proud to announce  Want to try to show that Sctence and  
cut off  At the Beaux Arts Ball. Call Rock  ots  CAMPUS  COSTCUTTERS  Technology can be onterestong? OK. I saod  
i ·----------, I LOST/FOUND  233-6068 LOST A Beoge · Members Only' waost­length jacket oaken by mostake at South  Wanted: S1ngle room on campus from May?. 12 z~prox. Woll pay$$ Call 277­2369 7 -Bpm ONLY  1210 GARLAND pay $222 87 when you assume thos 9 S'o FHA mortgage Century 21 Carmoen Really (219) 848-4477  PROGRAM. an efftctent, 1nexpensrve way 1n whtch to send your personal1tems home for the summer break. For lnforma­tron. see Tuesday·sor Wednesday"s ad 1n·  try If you do. call Scoence & Technology Edotor Tom Mowle at The Observer ,(239­7471) and have your chance to be published  
Donong Hall  I have yours and ot's too bog!  CAROLINA  CAROLINA  CAROLINA  REFRIGERATOR -Loke New Call MJ at  the OBSERVER or call Jom Forde, East­ 
.couND ON SOUTH QUAD; Casoo fove­functoon watch. Has onitoafs on the back  Please call Mary Ellen at #7974  Need Roder Jeff at 3126  Leavong Tue.  May 10 Call  7950  ern Aorhne·s Campus Rep at3632  Don·t do 11 Amy!  Tom the Axe  
Clue. woth silver watchband. Call Marty at '022.  LOST ·st Tomothy" medal and chaon on the gym at the Rock last Sat. noght. Was a gift from Grandma so please return No  82 GRAD needs female roommate Evanston IL. Call Fleno (312) 864-8494  on  Carpet. Gold. 8xt2, 1 yr old 8631.  Call Tom at  IEEE Electoons-Mon., Tues . Wed on EE Offoce REMEMBER TO VOTE FOR KEVIN BENNER. BILL MERTKA, ANNE  WORKING  IN  CHICAGO  THIS  SUM­ 
••=•)UNO: TRINITY HIGH SCHOOL Class ·I'O.ng -1982. lnotials CJJ onsode. Found ,·.-s1nk in bathroom of N1euwfand Sc1ence  questoons. Reward. Call Tom #8181  Need roders to John Carroll Unov. Leave Fro. Aprol29. Call John #3554  4 sale Onkyo 70w lnt Amp Great Shape #3155  WERNIMONT. & LARRY AUGUSTIN!! Last showong of ANIMAL HOUSE today.  MER? Roommate needed June-August Apart­ment on Loncoln Park area. 6 moles tram  
n~ll Wednesday, April 20. Call Chns :; .3184 before ot os pawned. ; JST· NAVY BLUE JACKET AT f1ECESS ON SAT. PLEASE CALL  FOR RENT  Need Ride to NYIll Leaving anytime after graduatiOn say 5/15 or 5/16. to NYC-Westchester. Usual. Frank-3164  TICKETS  woth lottie rascles preshow! Take a break from academe a and JOin 1n the bruhaha! Antmal House Antmal House  Loop. Call Tom at x8728 The GQ ... Our days grow few Dear Vera.  
'lRIAN AT 1479  4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo. all  ANIMAL HOUSE  Ask and you shall rece1ve! So here tt 1s.  
utohties included June or Sept. Call 319­ "'eed rode to 8oeton Can leave noght of  Please Help! Need One LOWER ARENA  ANIMAL HOUSE  you very forst PERSONAL.  
322-8735 Patty  May 7. Will share usual. Call Tom x6802  TICKET for GRADUATION EXERCISES  Animal House  MR MINN  
·-'JST IN MUD PITS: Polo keychaon woth  --Wtll trade one upper arena t1cket or wtU  Animal House  
234 on them. REWARD!!! Please call  Summer School? Apts. tor Rent near N.D.  I LOVE NJ and need to get hOme. Leavong  buy. Please call Debboe at 234-7961  SEEITI  In Elkhart. !hey have a cure for a lottie  
· '288.  Utihtoes Pd Less Gas ph.2720261  5/10 or atler. Spilt usual Mark at 1725  Thanks!  TUESioWEDI  cough  
-~···t  


• ...... 
......·.· "'::.-.· 




The Observer Wednesday, April27, 1983 -page 9 
Doubles trouble 
Women's tennis team slides to .500 
ByJANE HEALEY Lisa LaFratta and Laura Lee lost a AssistantSports Editor tough match to Schendel and Ye~1: 7-5, 3-6, and 4-6. Petro had been 
"There was some good tennis out hoping to count on this doubles pair here today," said Sharon Petro, after their fine showing at Purdue coach of the Notre Dame women's over the weekend. But she. found tennis team. "There were some real fault in their play yesterday. close matches out here. It's just un-"They just didn't put the ball away fortunate that we won one of them when they should have," Partro said. and they won two." "We've had that problem before. 
The "they" was We<>tern Michigan When the opportunity is there, we University which narrowly defeated don't take it." the Irish 5-4 on th Courtney Courts Everything rested on the last yesterday. The loss gave Notre doubles match with the team scores Dame a 8-8 spring season record. locked at 4-4. In the first game, the 
The easiest singles match of the Irish team of Cathy Schnell and day was played by freshman Susie Greta Roemer were beating Julie Panther. A former No. 1 player, Pan-Hawthorne and Janet Ray 5-0. But ther is recovering from a back injury the Bronco pair battled back to take and competeing at the No. 4 spot for the set 7-5. The Irish took the next Notre Dame. She easily handled one 6-1, but Ray and Hawthorne Lynne Schendel6-1, 6-l. teamed up the win the third set and 
"It was one of my easiest the match 6-3. matches," Panther said. "I felt like all "I hope they learned their lesson," I had to do was hit the ball over and . Petro said. "They were up 5-0 and I'd get the point. That's not a good · lost it. At this level of competition, feeling. you just can't do that. They have to 
"I don't like playing fourth singles. stay intense." I have to make it a challenge for The team as a whole must stay in­myself, because I don't really have to tense at this point. With a bid to the work. It's only a matter of keeping NCAA tournament almost in their myselfintense." pocket, the Irish are having trouble 
After five of the singles matches concentrating as they play out the were off the courts, freshman Mary rest of the regular season. Colligan was still battling it out with "I don't think that there is any­Amy Yeast. The Irish were down 2-3 thing seriously wrong," Fischette and a Colligan victory would make said. "We're just getting anxious the score even going into the about Nationals, and we don't really doubles action. Colligan simply think that these games are impor­wore her opponent down as she tri-tant." 
umphed 7-6,6-4. 
The No. I doubles team of Pam Fischette and Colligan quickly beat Nancy Martin and Sue Weigand 6-3, 6-3. The !(ish were up 4-3, but both 

Chance to Dance 
No. 2 and No. 3 doubles were having 
problem~. 
....................................,.......................
~ 

with the KI"ETICS
I I
STUDENTS 

: : 

Chautauqua
Ii How LIVE IN THE CHICAGO AREA?i ABOUT A suMMER joa?5 
i i And a great one! We sell RADIO i ADVERTISING nationwide by tele· i phone from our Peterson Ave. offices ! (6000 North!). Work days, or ntghts and 
i Saturdays, in casual, comfortable sur­!roundings. The money is great! What's Ethe catch? You must be an above ave· i rage student; you've GOTTA be aggres­iive; you must enjoy talking on the tele­i phone; and you must be willing to learn jcall us now at (312) 878 · 0800. We'll 

Fri. fipril 29 9:30-1:30
icall you right back to set up an mter­: view date. If accepted you can lock up ia summer job now! 15 
fidm. S1
I jPSI Marketing Consultants Inc. :i 
Sponsored by the H.D. Student Onion 
! 10 years of service to RADIO 5 i 5
...........-..........-......" ..............-............ 


INTELLECTUAL 





SEND YOUR GEAR 
SOFTWARE PRESENTS 

FLYING WITH EASTERN'S CAMPUS

s~r~~LSAT
on the 


COSTCUTTERS!
by Jonathan D. Kantrowitz, 
J. D., Harvard .law School 
Comprehensive com­puter-assisted instruction, tea­turing automatic timing, scoring, branching, extensive analysis and documentation. 
I
Apple, IBM PC disks: $195.00 
Available exclusively from: 
r.,JQueue, I~ 
5 ~pel Hill Drive Fairfield, CT 06432 1-800-232-2224 or (203) 335-0908 

.. 
Petro can understand the situa­tion the players are in. Although they lost yesterday, she did not get worried, but looked for something good to come out of the afternoon. 
"If we can just learn from our 


...
mistakes after days like this, then we are only going to get better," Petro said. "Ifwe do learn, then I'll be hap­py." 
...Defense 

continuedfrom page 10 
help with the backup roles. There speed alone will help us although we don't want to put too much pressure on them." 
The secondary will be bolstered the most by the class of 1987 as five top prospects. History has shown at Notre Dame that the secondary has been the easiest position for a fresh­man to break in to and start. From Luther Bradley in 1973, to joe Johnson in 1981, five freshmen have broken into the starting lineup sometime during the season over the last nine seasons. 
But the person with the best chance of making an immediate im­pact is 6-4 235-lb defensive-end Going over the top against the Purdue Boilermakers isfullback Robert Banks who has been Larry Moriarty. Next season Moriarty will carry the ball for the compared favorably with former Houston Oilers because they made him theirfifth round selection Notre Dame All-America and Out­in yesterday's pro draft. See story on page 12. 
land Trophy winner, Ross Browner. 
JIH FORDE, CAMPUS REP. (219) 283-3632 
FOR RATE INFORMATION, CALL: TOWNE AIR FREIGHT (219) 233-3183 

Fast service, low cost to anywhere Eastern flies in the continental U.S. 
Contact Eastern Air-Freight or your Eastern Airlines Campus Representative. 
EASTERN 
Air-Freight 
1 
1 
l 
I I l I I I 
\ 
I 
~ 
\ 
j I 
i I 
l 
l 
I 
~ 
-~-----------------~~--~­
I r 
The Observer 
... 
The Observu/Pet~ Laches 


Next season Dave Duerson, pictured above, will be doing his running on Chicago'sSoldierField. The Chicago Bears made Duer­son their third round selection in yesterday's annual National Football League professional draft. See Mike Riccardi's story on page 12. 

______ consultants to ____________ Multinational firms 
seek qualified individuals with language and area expertise on foreign markets. Expertise should be based on a stay of at least 2 years. Part-time and full-time assignments available. Fee Paid. 
Send resume or request for application form to: 
Swenson, Crawford & Paine Dept: B-33 P. 0. Box A3629 Chicago, Illinois 60690 



Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
If you think ltali;m tilod is just spaghetti ;md pizza. we ·ve got a mouth -opening experience waiting !( lf you every Wednestkty night from -1:()() ~ IO:!Kl p.m. at ·nw Looking c;(a~s Restaur:mt in tht· South llt•Jlll .\larriott 
Introducing \!;una \tarriott's -a 1Juu11 gustu array of :mtip;L~ta. minestrom·. lt·ttucim·. t~tcliatore. h-;;tgtlt'. p;L-;ta ;md !( llll' salk'l'S. chet:se. breatb ;md tbserts 
It ·s ,tll sell ed up in a !(:stin· lt;tli:m atm1 lSphere ­checkered tablecloths. a strolling musici;m­the work.~. 
All mu r:m eat t<lr Sh.lJ-) Children under 12 -StlJ-1 Reservations Appreciated 
.4 ri!'(•t/erd' 
South Bt•tKI/~orriott ttottl . 
12) N. St. Joseph St.. South HenJ (219) 2)4-2(Xl0 

Wednesday, April27, 1983-page 10 
Spring goals met 
Johnson likes what he sees on 'D' 
JJy LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
As far as Notre Dame defensve coordinator Jim Johnson is concerned, the Irish defense will return next fall with goals from this spring well accomplished. 
"First of all we wanted to give are young people ex­perience so that they can improve," says Johnson. "We've done that. But the main things we especially wanted were no major injures and a better overall foot­ball team then we started with. There is no question that we have done that." 
However, there is a major trouble spot that concerns Johnson. 
"We can't say that we're very strong up front yet," he admits. "Of course we didn't have Mike Gann playing for us this spring so that he can rest his knee. And I don't know how you just go out and replace a Kevin Griffith or Bob Clasby. We do have talented people, but they are still young freshmen who need valuable game ex­perience." 
The young freshmen that Johnson refers to are flip 
tackle Eric Dorsey and contain tackle Greg Dingens. 
"Both especially have had awfully good springs and have really found a home at their positons. They have made very good progress throughout the course of spring. They're going to have to grow up fast in the fall, though, when they get exposed to more tougher game­like situatons," evaluatesJohnson. 
Given that there may be some inexperience up front, 
the situatiion is offset in that there is not much sepera­
tion of talent between members of the first team, and 
members on the second sq!.lad. For example, Jon Autry 
returns as the number one nose guard, but the man be­
hind him is Tim Marshall who was a starter at that posi­
tion his freshman and sophomore years before he had to 
sit out all oflasi:"year with a foot injury: ­
Meanwhile, Gann logically would be considered a 
shoo-in at flip-tackle next fall after his sensational 
season last year. But after Dorsey's outstanding spring 
campaign,Johnson is not so sure. 
That is why with such good depth on the line, the 
coaching staffplans to use the second units quite a bit so 
as to constantly send fresh troops into the game, and to 
give the first unit a breather. 
"That is very much in our plans for this fall, especially 
with the way teams throw the ball 40, even 50 times, a 
game today (last year seven ofNotre Dame's opponents 
passed between 30 to 45 times in the game against the Irish)," notesJohnson. "One of the hardest things for a defensive lineman to do is to fight his way to the quar­terback since the offensive lineman of today can now use his hands," he continues. "It is a very tiring process for the defensive man especially on early in the season when the weather is hot. Hopefully, we can counter that with some good depth up front." 
From an overall perspective, the defense will have better quickness than Irish teams from the past. It will also have a greater balance of talent betwt:en members ofcertain units than in the past when a Crable stood out for the linebackers or a Duerson stood out for the secondary. 
"Furjanic (Middle linebacker Tony) has given us quickness on the inside with Larkin (inside linebacker Mike)," says Johnson. "Add to that the speed that is evi­dent in our secondary with people like Stacey Toran, Chris Brown, and Joe Johnson, and were going to have some great quickness. 
"These kids are also tremendously competitive and physical people. The tremendous hitting they put on this spring demonstrated that. It will be more of a balanced team than we've had before. If we can get the defensive line to surface, we'll be very balanced over­all." 
While Johnson has tabbed Larkin and Furjanic as "two of the better ones around at their positons" in the country, he is pleased that there really is no single player that stands out fron anybody else this year on the defense. 
"We have good leadership from five or six people out there," saysJohnson. "That makes it a good situation in that the players can help each other out on the field instead of relying on just one man to look up to for leadership." -'file biggest goal that Johnson strives for is conSis-.. tency. 
"Last year, at times we played like crazy," says Johnson," but then all ofa sudden it always seemed that we would give up a very long drive that would really kill us. We had breakdowns like that for a quarter that cost us against Arizona and Oregon." 
There is no denial byJohnson that freshmen will play a big role come fall. "I don't think any will start," maintains Johnson, "but there will be four or five that will have to step in and 
see DEFENSE, page 9 

If you're a senior and have the promise ofa $10,000 career-oriented job, do you know 
what's stopping you from getting the American Express' Card? 
You guessed it. 
Nothing. 

Because American Express believes in your future. But more than that. We believe 
in you now. And we're proving it. 

A $10,000 job promise. That's it. No strings. No gimmicks. And this offer is even good for 12 months after you graduate. But why do you need the American Express Card now? First of all, it's a good way to begin to establish your credit history. And you 
know that's important. 

Ofrourse, the Card is also good for travel, restaurants, and shopping for things like a new stereo or furniture. And because the Card is recognized and welcomed worldwide, so are you. 
So call for a Special Student Application or look for one at your college bookstore or on campus bulletin boards. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it:• . • 
Calltodayfor an application: 
soo..szs..sooo. 
OAnwrunE~{~~\.Kltll 


-~-----~-­


lheO~~==========~========================== 
Wednesday, April27, 1983.-page 11




Todax 



The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved • 



...WfUV\,Of COURSE., HAll Rf.C£NTL.Y 
I3E£,N PtSPMaJW 1D 1Ht: 
FOOIIMI\RT fOR 50M£ 'QHT·OS'10 INSUR£ A 5II'OOTH NOMINimON. 
AU. OF WHiai R£5Ut.:fE.D IN A WMRAAf3(.Y WANIMOUS !7£'CI510N. 1HE MU\WII mRTY'S 
VIC£·PR£SI~NTIAL. CAN171ffif£ 
WA51D !*: ... 
)eb Cashin 

/K!lD IT! WHfiT '6 
IPW Cf/N L FUNN'I f/f!111T /{0711.£
Tllltf(K THE fllN5 Df111e 
W/10 !1£1/N j() l ':;.;c--.: 
BuSY. 
6/IW SNtiUI./) 0£11 
CI~F'UM/ 

ACROSS 23 Puzzle 1 "-and the clue: abbr. man" 24 Amend 
5 Sudden 25 Smaller burst of number energy 28 Brightness 
1 0 Achieve-32 Roman road ments 33 Depressed 14 Coin of 38 Accepts Iran automat· 15 Part of a lcally poem 41 Begin anew 16 Tiny 42 One: Ger. 
particle 43 Overweight 17 Seaweed 44 Brlckworker 18 Group of 45 Morsel 
eight 49 Wild ox 19 Temple 50 Inferior 20 Unquestlon· 51 Practical 
ing confl· reasoning dence 58 Division 22 Egg on word 
Tuesday's Solution 

Bloom County 
Berke Breathed 
Campus 
•1:
15 p.m. -Physics Lecture, "Phenomenology: Proton Decay Catalysis and Monopolonium," Dr. Chris Hall, 401 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•2:30 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Men vs. Bowling Green, Courtney Courts 

•4:15 
p.m. -Air Force ROTC Spring Awards, Library Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Vibrational Energy Trans­fer Maps for Small Molecules," Prof George W . Flynn, 123 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Cooperation Between Cyclophospamide Tumoricidal Activity and Host Antitumor Im­munity in the Eradication of Established Tumors," Dr. Sheldon Dray, Galvin Life Science Auditorium 

•6:30 
p.m. -Preprofessional C t lub Meeting, 127 NSH 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lacrosse, ND Men vs. Chicago Club, Cartier Field 

•7:30 
p.m. -WSND·FM Meeting, for persons in­terested in becoming WSND·FM announcers, 121 O'Shaughnessy 

•8 
p.m. -ND Gaming Club Organization Meeting, 118 O'Shaughnessy Hall 


T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 16 22 28 34 6:30p.m. 16 22 28 34 7p.m. 16 22 28 34 8p.m. 16 22 28 8:30p.m. 16 9p.m. 16 28 10p.m. 16 22 28 34 10:30p.m. 16 22 28 llp.m. 28 
11:30p.m. 16 
The Far Side 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report M0A0S0 H Family Feud Tic Tac Dough 
.•
Straight Talk 
r':~"'
Real People .·.~ 
if
Zorro and Son The Fall <fit .. Live from the Met Facts of Life Wednesday Night Movie Ryan's Four Taxi Quincy, Dynasty NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Indiana Lawmakers Tonight Show Harr 10 Hart/CBS Late Movie ABC News Nightline ABC Late Night News Late Night with David Letterman 

"Blast! Up to now, the rhino was one of my prime suspects." 


59 Amphl· 
theater 60 Makes 61 Freudian 
terms 62 Device for locating 63 John In 
Minsk 64 Venture 65 Drops 
heavily 66 Title 
DOWN 1 Spirited 
steed 2 Brook 3 ThreeWise 
Men 4 Onewho 
maligns 5 Sneer 6 Spotted 
cavy 7 Against 8 Printer's symbol 9 Clothes 
menace 10 Abominable 11 Map 12 Slight 
trace 13 Guide 21 -Alte 24 Square 
column 25 Seizures 26 Coupd'­27 Flightless 
bird 28 Jostle 29-to you! 30 Tidal bore 31 Usepoor 
judgment 
34 Entered surreptl· tlously 
35 Comella­Skinner 36 Gambling town 37 Eve's 
garden 39 Desist 40 Pass off as 
genuine 44 Mothers 45 Caught 
sight of 46 Cuban dance 47 Machine 
part 48 Rebelled 49 Time 
periods 51 Dwell(on) 52 Klndof 
test 53 Renovate 54 "Pieceof 
cake" 55-Scotia 56 Line formed 
by sewing 57 Slaveof old 
Now 111£N, B£tN0 FOR 1'Ht:. MOM£NT WITHOUT A PR£51ClfNTIAI­CANLilllltlt. JH£ NOMINI\11N6 C.O~ITIE£ 5€T 10 WORK NAMIN6 M UNWCKY IN~VIP../At.. 1D U lHAr.;Kl£55 RO\.f OF VICE ­
PRE:5117€NT1A!-CAN171l711'ft. 

·. 

Simon 
.--------,QUICK~Y W6R6 1116 ~BAreS ~Elmt:l?, 1H£ 1?150./SSIONfJ lliSC.USS£17 11NI71Ht: VOTESvon:P... 


Hr.Y, tJNAr'S 'TilE DEIIL HERE? )llj( 
LEI'T Till 
FI~FM'If 
8~/ 
WELL ,;rr 1S k/NIJ oF' 
LATE I# TNE 
SU'IESrU. 
.%'If£ 6tff /IL.6r OF' 
T111MJS' :r 
7D QtJ. 


-~ 

I  
I  
I  
l  
I  
I  
I  
I  .,  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
~  
I  
I  
I  
t  
l  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I.  
I  
I  
I  
l  
t  
I 
r  
I  ..  
•  


NEW YORK (AP) -The Bal­timore Colts, unable to strike the right deal for the No. I choice in the National Football League draft, gambled and apparently lost yester­day when they picked Stanford quar­terback John Elway. Just as they tuned down trades, Elway a pure dropback passer who was called the biggest quarterback prize since Joe Namath, said he would torgo foot­ball for a baseball career with the New York Yankees unless the Colts trade him to a West Coast team in the next few days. 
"As I stand here now, it's going to be baseball," the 6'2 l/2" all­American told a news conference in San Jose, Calif. "I haven't ruled out football yet, but I'm a lot closer to baseball than I was before." 
The Colts, however, insisted they did not draft Elway just to trade him elsewhere. 
Elway told the Colts before the draft he didn't want to play for them and he left no doubt yesterday in talking with Baltimore Coach Frank Kush that he would not change his mind. 
Elway said his agent, Marvin Demoff, had been talking with Yankees owner George Steinbren­ner about a five-year escalating salary deal that would average about SSOO,OOO a year. 
The selection of Elway began a quarterback parade unmatched in NFL draft history. On three occa­
Bookstore's 'little guys' 
When they created Bookstore Basketball 12 years ago, they had these guys in mind. 
They are the little guys, the ones who have no busi­ness being on the same basketball court with 6-10 be­hemoths and bulky football players. Bookstore gave them the opportunity to test their skills against the best ,)layers on campus. 
This year, the 12th year of Bookstore, the little guys took it to the big guys like never before. This year, the little guys proved that they are the best basketball players on campus. 
Ofthe 20 players in this year's Final Four, only one­Tim Andree -was a varsity athlete. It was the first time in Bookstore history that the finals featured nary a var­sity athlete. 
That made this year's Bookstore tournament far more enjoyable than any other I've seen. Four players in par­ticular -all under six feet tall -were joys to watch, and now it's time for them to get the recognition they deserve: 
Paul DeAngelis, US -The senior guard from Drexel Hill, Pa., used a hot outside shooting touch to lead US to the Final Four and earn Mr. Bookstore honors. Much like N.C. ·state's Dereck Whittenburg, DeAngelis was able to hit several long jumpers in the clutch to thwart opponents' 2-3 zone defenses that are so popular in Bookstore. 
DeAngelis played his high school ball at Monsignor Bonner of the Philadelphia Catholic League, but his teams didn't meet with the same success as US. 
"We made the league playoffs my junior year," says DeAngelis, who averaged 16 points a game in his senior season. "But the next year we weren't very good." 
Even though DeAngelis was recruited by nearby Divi­sion III powers Widener and Scranton, he chose Notre Dame to further his academics. He is a preprofessional major, with hopes ofentering med school next year at Hahnemann Medical College in Philadelphia. 
His basketball education also continued at ND. 
"I played everything my first couple of years," says DeAngelis, who played for US in the last three tourna­ments, leading them to the Thirsty 32 and Elite Eight prior to this year. "Club ball, intrahall, interhall, engineering league. This semester it's been strictly at the Rock three or four times a week. The competition's always fair to good, and it gives you the chant ce to get in shape and try different things that you wouldn't try in the tournament." 
Joe "F.G." Sweeney, Macri's Preferred Stock ­This first-year MBA student from Madison, Wis. -the only member of Macri's who is not a law student ­captured the Bookstore MVP award in leading his team 1o nine straight victories and the championship. 
If Sweeney had his way, though, there would be five MVP trophies, one for each of his teammates. 

Chris Needles 
Sports Editor Emeritus 

"We didn't have any superstars;" says Sweeney, 
whose team upset top seeds Double Decker Oreo 
Cookie and Bad to the Bone en route to the title. "We 
just played as a team. We play regularly over at the 
(Moreau) Seminary, and we had some set plays on of­
fense and defense -they were simple, but we were 
more organized than most other teams. Everything we 
tried seemed to work." 
During his undergraduate days, Sweeney played for two seasons at tiny St. Mary's College in Minnesota, but quit the team after it abandoned a team concept, which had helped Sweeney's high school team capture the Wisconsin state championship in his senjor year. In fact, many of the defenses Macri's used in the tournament were borrowed from Sweeney's high school playbook. 
Sweeney's wife, Tami, is a weekend news reporter for WNDU-TV. The Sweeneys will celebrate their second anniversary June 12, and are expecting their first child in July. 
Now that's teamwork. 
Lou Nanni, Tequila White Lightning -He was the Napoleon of Bookstore, the little general who could always be heard barking out instructions to his teammates to counteract an enemy's defense. 
But running the show is nothing new for Lou. He has played point guard ever since he first picked up a bas­ketball, attaining all-conference honors .his junior and senior years at Akron High School just outside Buffalo, 
N.Y. He holds the school record for assists in a game ( 16), and averaged 8 assists and 16 points a game ifl his career. 
"I get a lot of satisfaction out of taking a team and getting the most out of it," says Nanni, a junior liberal studies/government major who was a third-team all­Bookstore selection. "We didn't have all that much talent this yeai. hut we got a lot out ofit. I think to play at one's maximum ability is a victory in itself." 
Nanni is generally recognized as one of the top bal­lplayers on campus, and rightly so. He has led Sorin's interhall team to the campus finals the last two years, only to lose by one point each time. As a member of Tequila the past three years, he has finished no worse than the Sweet 16 (ironically, US beat Tequila to reach the Elite Eight last year, only to see Tequila return the favor to make the finals this season). 
Nanni is also an active participant in "Monk Hoops," 
see 'LITTLE GUYS,' page 8 
Wednesday, April27, 1983-page 12 

Elway opts for baseball 
Colts roll dice and come up empty 
sions, four of them had been picked in the opening round. This time it was six; one going to each ofthe t1ve teams in the American Conference's Eastern Division, including the Colts. 
Six defensive backs also were taken in the first round, along with five offensive linemen, tour running backs, including No. 2 pick Eric Dickerson ofSouthern Methodist, to the Los Angeles Rams, and No. 3 Curt Warner of Penn State to Seattle; three defensive linemen, two wide receivers, one tight end and one linebacker. 
Pitt and Southern California had three players chosen on the first round, national champion Penn State and Arkansas two each. 
The first star of the rival United States Football League to be chosen was wide receiver Trumaine Johnson of Grambling State, the leading receiver for the Chicago Blitz. Johnson, who would have been a sure first round choice if he had not signed with the USFL, was picked first on the sixth round by the San Diego Chargers. 
But the player who counted to the NFL, the one who dominated pre­draft maneuvering, was Elway. 
Hunter fits Bills 
Not~e Dame's Tony Hunter was selected in the first round ofyes­terday's National Football League draft. Hunter, the first Irish player taken, was the 12th pick overall. 
"Buffalo's a good team with a winning tradition," said Hunter after his selection. "At first I wanted to go to a warm weather team, but that doesn't really matter." 
Hunter, who had left school this semester to tend to family busi­ness in his home town ofCincinnati, had been rumored to be going to the Los Angeles Rams. When the Rams improved their position in the draft, however, the Bills and the Denver Broncos became the 

. favorites to select Hunter, a tight end who, in the opinion of Bills coach Kay Stephenson, is in the mold ofSan Diego Charger star Kel­len Winslow. The oddity of the afternoon, however, was provided by -who else -the Chicago Bears, who selected Tom Thayer in the fourth round -three hours after the Notre Dame offensive tackle signed a contract with the United States Football League's Chicago Blitz. Thayer, in Chicago, was unavailable for comment. "We hadn't heard about the Blitz situation," said a Bears spokes­man. "It wasn't a major news item. But we retain hope of signing Thaver in the future." o'ther Notre Dame players selected in yesterday's draft were: Dave Duerson, Chicago Bears, third round; Larry Moriarty, Houston Oilers, fifth round; Bob Clasby, Seattle Seahawks, ninth round; Mark Zavagnin, Chicago Bears, ninth round. The Observer will have a full report on the Notre Dame contingent selected in the draft tomorrow. 

Sorin Hall resident Lou Nanni shown above driving to the hoop in Sunday's Bookstore XII Championship game, is one of four "little guys" who were instrumental in their team's success during the tournament. In his column today, Chris Needles profiles the four men who were short in size, but big in heart. 



