• • • NIT-page9 

VOL. XVII, NO. 116 the iudepemknt student new~paper serving notre dame and saint mary's TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 1983 

Class of '85 

Committee affirms election 
By TOM MOWLE 
StaffReporter 
The junior class election results were affirmed by a judicial review committee and the Student Senate at last night's senate meeting. 
Judicial Coordinator Kevin Stierer said the five-member committee found "there were not enough sub­stantiated cases of infringement upon an individual's right to vote to warrant another election for the class of 1985 officers." The decision by both the committee and the Senate to affirm the election was unanimous. 
Allegations were raised by John Decker oftheMob ticket that poten­tial voters were turned away from voting places because of a shortage of ballots. Decker, who failed to make the run-off by four votes, said in a later interview, "they admitted to screwing up, and they're not doing anything about it." He added, "But I'm not surprised." 
Stierer interviewed "eight or nine people" as well as the judicial board chairmen in each hall before reach­ing a decision. Areas the committee considered in reaching their deci­sion included "intent to vote, at what time the ballots ran out, and if there was a reasonable incon­venience" to voters. 
For future elections, Stierer said a five-member judicial board commit­tee will be appointed for each elec­tion which will be "responsible for the entire election," including campaigning and any disputes over the results. 
Stierer also wants to "standardize the rules for elections." Presently, the t campaign rules are different in class elections from those in senate and student body president elec­tions. 
In other action, Hall Presidents Council Chairman Mike McAuliffe reported the plan the hall presi­dent's council has approved for a possible lottery. While his plan is "not neccessarily our final position," he sent copies to Vice President for Student Affairs Father John Van Wolvlear and Director of Student Residences Father Michael J. Hep­
pen. The plan would randomly lottery 
see SENATE, page 4 
PACE report 



C.S.C. organizes task force 
Photo by SCOTT BOWER 

jack Horoot, crane operatorforRitschardDemolition, controls the wrecking ball which brought down the oldFieldhouse. 
ByPATSAIN 
StaffReporter 
Has Holy Cross involvement at Notre Dame decreased? Circle one: Yes No 
If you are like most people, you answered "yes." Fewer priests are seen in the classrooms, and Notre Dame is governed by a lay board of trustees. Even the PACE report recommends more participation by the Holy Cross in teaching, research, and administration. 

$1. 7trillion program 
U.S. arms procurement criticized 
By TIM AHERN 
AssociatedPress 
Ten years ago, the Army decided to build a light new 
bazooka that would pierce tank armor head-on and 
could be mass-produced for S75 each. One "Viper" 
now costs 5787, although it can't knock out an oncom­
ing tank and still isn't being mass produced. 
According to several new studies, the blame should 
go to the PentagOn's inter-service rivalries, politics and 
inefficiency. 
Criticisms of military procurement are almost as 
numerous as the stories about cost overruns and 
problems with new hardware. 
But the most recent studies, particularly one by a 
young Pentagon 
TUESDAY
.,,,,,,.,,,,,.~
analyst, have ruMMr·.. w ... ,. · ., · drawn close at­tention on Capitol Hill and mw.#:~m
p;ilt®!'mJtFOCUS 
given ammuni­
tion to critics of 
President Reagan's $1.7 trillion program to "rearm 
America." 
In response, the Pentagon says things have changed, 
arguing that a series of reforms by the Reagan ad­
ministratiop will help cut down overruns. 
"We are very sensitive to this problem," says David 
Chu, chiefofthe Pentagon's office ofProgram Analysis 
and Evaluation. 
The studies have a central theme: that the record 
spending which Reagan has proposed won't buy as 
many weapons as the Pentagon says. 
One of the key figures has become Franklin C. Spin­
ney, an analyst in Chu's office. 
Spinney studied 30 years ofPentagon purchasing and 
Ill weapon; systems. His two-hour briefing, entitled 
the "plans-reality mismatch," has played to standing­
room crowds before congressional committees. 
Spinney is a reluctant critic -he argues that defense 
spending needs to be increased, not cut. 
But his message is that there are "structural 
problems" that lead to cost overruns and that stronf, 
corrective action is needed. Budgets might have to be increased by as much as 30 percent to buy all the planned weapons, he says. 
One problem, says Spinney, is that contractors "buy in" to a big job by proposing an unrealistically low ini­tial cost. 
The Pentagon contributes to the problem, he argues, by continual design changes. For example, the Air Force one year proposed 360 changes -almost one a day ­in the FB-111 bomber, he says. 
"You're dealing with the most complex bureaucracy in Washington," he says. "Everybody is fighting to save their programs" and during the battle the most optimis­tic cost projections are used. 
Congress adds to the problems, he says, by "stretching out" a program to cut costs in a specific year, which saves money in the short run but eventually drives up costs because economies of large-scale production are lost, he says. 
And Congress often forces the Pentagon to buy weapons the military doesn't want, Spinney notes, be­cause of political considerations such as home-state jobs in a defense plant. 
Similar conclusions were reached in studies by the Council on Economic Priorities, which criticized the defense build-up, and the conservative Heritage Foundation, a supporter of Reagan's plans. 
Consider the Viper. Shortly after the weapon was proposed, it was redesigned with a lighter-weight ex­plosive head which had less punch. And the motor was reduced in size to cut down the noise. 
The result was that the Viper, intended to puncture tank armor head on, couldn't do the job. 
Rather than killing the weapon, the Army changed its mission -proposing that it be fired at a tank from the side or the rear. 
When word of Spinney's study began circulating on Capitol Hill, top Pentagon officials criticized it and tried to block Spinney from talking to congressional commit­tees. 
But under threat of a congressional subpoena, Spin-
see ARMS, page 3 
The correct answer is "no." Near­The task force also provides a ly 100 active Holy Cross members method of reflection and promoting are presently at Notre Dame, with the Catholic character ofthe institu­the largest number of members at tions affilated with the Holy Cross. any time being 120. "The question is, 'how are people 
A task force which studies Holy aware of our presence?' " said Mal­Cross involvement at Notre Dame loy. "There are many different kinds and other communities has been of presences: in the classroom, ad­formed by the order. Three Notre minstration, dormitories, and Dame priests -Father Edward Mal­campus ministry." loy, Father David Schlaver, and The PACE report recommends Father David Tyson, are members of that the Holy Cross put more people the task force. into teaching and research. There 
The task force was not formed in has been a noticeable decline of the response to the PACE report, but is religious in the classroom. "The lay an ongoing investigation of the faculty has always outnumbered the relationship between the Holy Cross 
see C.S.C, page 6

order and the communities it serves. 
Notre Dame Magazine 
names Collins editor 
By SONYA STINSON 
SeniorStaffReporter 

Walt R. Collins, assistant to the chancellor for university relations at Indiana University at South Bend (IUSB ), is the new editorofNotre DameMagazine. 
Collins was appointed by James W. Frick, Notre Dame vice presi­dent for public relations, alumni affairs and development. He succeeds Ronald R. Pare.nt, who died ofleukemia last August. 
The new editor praised the magazine's quality and said he has no plans to make major changes in the near future. "I will be slow to impose my feelings," he said. 
"I admire the magazine's serious tone, the quality of the writers and the absolutely superb layout and design. It is a very attractive magazine." 

Collins said he cannot predict whether he will want to experi­ment with new ideas in the more distant future. When he takes over, he will be responsible for supervis­ing a staff ofthree other editors and an art director. 
Collins is a 1951 graduate of Notre Dame. He has a master's de­gree in public affairs from Indiana Un~versity and has taught at IUSB, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege. He was on the staff of the South Bend Tribune from 1957 to 1969, beginning as a reporter and 
advancing to the position of as-· sociate editor. 

At IUSB, Collins has been involved in media relations, ad­ministrative assistance and supervision of campus publications, among other activities. He has been the book editor of the South Bend Tribune since 1962 and is a frequent moderator of television discussion programs. He is currently the consultant for The Obseroer news department. 




f.News Brie/§ 
By The Obsen,er and The Associated Press 

ThereWill be a forumtoday entitled "Roman Cath­olic and Anglican Liturgies," sponsored by the undergraduate majors in theology. The speakers are Professor Niels Rasmussen and Profes­sor Kenneth Stevenson, specialists in liturgical studies. All interested members of the Notre Dame community are urged to attend. The forum will take place at 7:00p.m. in Room 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
EdmundA. Stephan,chairman emeritus ofthe Uni­versity ofNotre Dame's Board ofTrustees, and his wife, Evelyn, have been awarded the 1983 Laetare Medal, it was announced last week by Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president. The medal, the oldest and most prestigious award given American Catholics, has its centenary this year. In announcing the honor, Father Hesburgh noted the role ofStephan, a prominent Chicago attorney, as the ar­chitect ofthe changeover to lay governance at Notre Dame in 1967. "Ed Stephan conceptualized the transfer ofcontrol from the found­ing religious institute, the Congregation of Holy Cross, to a new predominantly lay board. He also mediated the discussion that gained support from members of the Congregation and created the legal structure we have lived gracefully with for the last 16 years," Father Hesburgh said. In 1933, Stephan graduated magna cum laude from Notre Dame and after working briefly, entered Harvard Law School, from which he received his LL.B. with honors in 1939. In 1937 he married Evelyn Way, known to friends as "Evie." Con­sidered one of the most influential attorneys in Chicago, Stephan is chairman ofthe board ofthe Chicago Council on Foreign Relations, a 
director of Brunswick Corporation, Marsh and McLennan Company 
and the Arthur J Schmitt and William Benton foundations. Evelyn 
Stephan is active in church, civic and charitable affairs in Chicago. 
The couple lives in Evanston. Three of their four sons and two of 
their four daughters have Notre Dame degrees. The Laetare 
(pronounced LAY-tah-ray) Medal gets its name from the fact that it is 
announced each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday ofLent in 
the Church calendar. The Stephans will receive the Laetare Medal at 
commencement exercises May 15. -The Observer 
PaulWeiss, professorofphilosophy at the Catholic University ofAmerica, will inaugurate a new lecture series at Notre Dame tomorrow when he focuses on "The Blessings of Liberty" during a three-part series sponsored by the Program of Liberal Studies. Talks at 8 p.m. today and tomorrow in the Center for Continuing Education will deal with "Man" and "The World." A final 
talk at 3:30 p.m. Friday in the Memorial Library Lounge, entitled "The Luring Night," will be preceded by a harpsichord and violin chamber music program provided by Linda Ferguson and Kathleen Erickson, Notre Dame professor and student. The son of an im­migrant tinsmith, Weiss earned graduate degrees at Harvard Univer­sity where he served on the faculty before moving to Radcliffe, Bryn Mawr and Yale University. He is on the board of governors at Hebrew University in Jerusalem and was the first president of the Metaphysical Society ofAmerica. Among his many books is "Modes of Being," considered by some authorities as a seminal work in the history of philosophy. The new lecture series will bring a distin­guished thinker to the campus each year to develop his thoughts on liberal education. The Cities Service Company, a subsidiary of Oc­cidental Petroleum Corp., is furnishing financial support for the 
series. -The Obseroer 

St. Joseph County and Notre Dame health officials have scheduled another innoculation period in an effort to close the door on a possible outbreak ofmeasles at the University. All students and faculty who are in need ofthe innoculation are asked to visit the student health center between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. tomorrow. Almost 1,000 University of Notre Dame students have been immunized against measles and other communicable diseases during the past four weeks, and another 700 had their records updated after consult­ing with their parents and family physicians. To date no case of measles has been reported on the campus. -The Observer 
The Senate's march toward passage of the Social Security rescue bill was slowed yesterday by a new effort to thwart a government plan to have banks withold 10 percent of interest and dividend income. Sen. John Melcher, D-Mont., offered an amend­ment to the rescue bill to delay the July 1 start of withholding on bank accounts and stock holdings for six months. It was unclear how long the Senate would debate Melcher's amendment. The Senate passed ajobs bill last week after it was tied up for days by an effort to repeal the withholding plan. -AP 
Nancy Reagan's appearance on "Diffrent 
Strokes" on Saturday boosted the television show's audience to 32.5 million viewers, the first lady's press secretary said yesterday. Press secretary Sheila Tate, telephoning reporters to tell about the ratings, said the average audience of the weekly show is 26.3 million viewers. Mrs. Reagan appeared on the show to deliver an anti-drug message aimed at youngsters. The first lady "was thrilled" by the ratings, Mrs. Tate said, quoting Mrs. Reagan as saying. "I hope they all liked it." Mrs. Tate said the White House switchboard lines were jammed immediately after the broadcast and no negative calls were received. -AP 
There will be snowshowers today. It will be windy and cold with the high in the upper 20s to low 30s. The snow showers will diminish tonight but it will be very cold with the low in the teens, but higher near the lake. Mostly sunny and cold tomorrow with the high in the mid 30s. -AP 
Tuesday, March 22, 1983 -page 2 

Breaking the playground 
"Heyyy!!! Let's party!" yelled the overweight youth as he ripped the tire alarm out of his hotel room wall. The lad ran offin search offemales to plunder, stepping over a companion whose skin tone was the color ofa boiled tomato and whose consciousness was adrift in a sea of alcohol. 
This is one of many scenes that you could have wit­nessed had you been in Daytona Beach last week. Each spring, hordes of college students flock to Florida in search of sun, seduction and excuses to behave in pat­terns normally considered unacceptable. Next to Fort Lauderdale, Daytona Beach is the most popular destina­tion for the Spring hiatus. Unlike northern towns which are based on manufacturing industry, Daytona's in­dustry is pleasure, or at least the illusion there-of 
Legions ofgift and souvenir shops cater to those who can't go another minute without an inflatable alligator, plastic orange tree or genuine hand painted seashell (made in Taiwan). Some say that every time someone has sex in Daytona, they 
Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor Emeritus· 

Inside Tuesday 

who is successful at making a fool of himself can win a t-shirt. 
It's a good thing all the students on break are respon­sible and mature young adults, otherwise they might be adversely influenced by all the booze, playmates and smokes. 
The real forces behind a Daytona spring break are the promoters. Many fell on hard times dealing De Sotos and Deloreans, and are now dealing tours. These guys organize the busloads of students who come down to 
Daytona to stay in the 

build a giftshop. 
Starting with the Daytona 500 auto race in February, (when lots of cars go real fast in a circle for a long time), never-ending hordes of people call upon the town. Early in March are the annual "Rat" conventions. "Rats" are the large dudes who ride loud motorcycles. Thousands of these folks gather for a week to compare notes on their women, pistons and tatoos. 
What follows the Rats is Daytona's bread and butter: the college students. The lo­

cal chamber of commerce estimated that during the three peak spring break weeks this year, over 20 million dollars will be pumped into the local economy. Five dollar cover charges are the norm in many of the bars. (During the other 10 months of the year, the cover charges is zero.) One local businessman, though, is all heart. For only seven dollars, one can not only pay him 
money to drink at his bar, but also receive a "free" plas­tic mug worth at least 29 cents. 
Hucksters can be found at all levels. The major beer companies are operating in full force. Students scrounge trash cans for beer cans in return for the prvilege ofmaking phone calls at the brewer's expense. Playboy bunnies autograph posters of themselves endorsing brews. The sight of a faded Miss November '82 autographing hundreds of posters for people with names like "Bowser," "Biff' and "Blowey," does not match Heffner's glamorous hype. For those who con­sider drinking immoral, there are the cigarette com­panies. They sponsor lots of contests, where a person 

The.Observer 
Spring Training 

Design Editor....................... Phi !lies Neely Design Assistant.... ...................Small Cubs Lavout Staff... . .............. Draft Dodgers Typesetters ...... .Free Agent Oakley, Tiger 
Rabbit News Editor.. . . .. Pirates Doyle Copv Editor...... .. .... Red Sox May 
Editorials Layout. ......... Cardinals Brown ~ports Copy Editor... ... Mcts O'Connor, Orioles Sullivan ND Dav Editor.. .............. White Sox Pantil ~MC Day Editor... .................. llrown again Ad Design.. . .. ..... Brewers Euch Extra Layout..................Yankees Riccardi Photographer... . .. Hraves Hower Guest AppearancesAngels Dz1edzic, The 
Death of Double-line, Bonehead 
Emeritus, 'Mary D', Padres MacLennan, A lot ot' closet Oriole fans 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt ·Marys Col lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year iS 15 per semester) by wr1t1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame indiana 46556 
promoter's hotel while drinking the promoter's beer. To be a promoter one has to be able wear a capped smile and say "Hey, you stu­dents are great! We really love you, but I'm really bummed out because we have to bone you out of some more money." Many sell their sisters in the off­season. 
A certain amount of sexism can be found. In ad­dition to all the horny guys oogling all the girls, the promotions are based on female anatomy. The daily 


newspaper gave tips on how 
boys could "score," and one firm was searching for the nicest set of female "cocoanettas." No one was sponsoring any wet jock­strap contests. 
Spring Break is really an excuse to do things in <:xcess: excessive drinking, excessive sunning and ex­cessive spending. But the one excess on most peoples' minds was not that prevalent. A combination of rooms filled with roommates, evil beach patrols and second thoughts in the final stretch kept sexual activity to a minimum. Tomorrow's leaders were busy though: dropping kegs off balconies, goosing people in elevators, carving obscenities in bathrooms, passing out in stairwells and inventing and then boasting ofthe pre­vious night's exploits. 
Think of how much simpler it would be if everyone just hung out at their local playground. Of course, the promoters would be the ones in the overcoats giving out the candy. 


··-------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, March 22, 1983 -page 3 


Lerner advocates new method exploration 
By MIKE WILKINS 
Senior StaffReporter 
Cross-disciplinary integration is important to gaining human knowledge because it draws ideas from different areas and puts them together to form patterns of meaning, according to noted author and columnist Max Lerner. 
Lerner, in a lecture last night in 
Hayes-Healy auditorium, stressed 
the importance of integrating learn­
ing in order to deal with today'scon· 
tinually expanding technology. 
It is only through the integration of knowledge that we can explore new ideas, Lerner noted. Though exploring these new ideas can be dangerous, "it is the business of ideas to be dangerou~." ifthey are to develop new ideas and methods of thinking, he said. 
Lerner, holder ofthe Welch Chair in American Studies, remarked that today society is especially ready for developing the integration of knowledge because ofits integrative impulse, a drive brought about by society's hunger for structure and knowledge. 
Because of the vast amounts of specialization in many areas of knowledge, scientific and literary disciplines do not communicate much with each other. Yet, integrat­ing knowledge is especially impor­tant today because of the threat of distinction posed by the devlop­ment ofnuclear weapons. "It is very important that we give a psychologi­cal and moral force to new tech­nologies in the face of nuclear weaponry," Lerner added. 
The·climate of thinking of a par­ticular time can prevent the ad· vancement of ideas developed by people who think differently than other people of that time. "But the francs rose by 1.5 percent. The 


Student proposes LaFortune chanKes 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE "Operation Brainstorm" proposal Assistant News Editor only that the club "be open on a regular basis, maintaining regular 
Suggestions which, if accepted, ~ours on specific nights." would allow for the operation ofthe Ciotta's new proposal suggests Undergraduate Club on a permanent moving the Dome from its present 
basis have been submitted to ad· ministration officials by junior Pete Ciotta, originator of the nonal­coholic club format. 
Copies of Ciotta's proposal were given to both Father John Van Wolvlear, vice-presient of student affairs and James McDonnell, direc­tor of student activities. The proposal outlines plans which would "begin renovation of the LaFortune student center and rei­ocate the placement bureau inter­views." 
The placement bureau currently holds interviews during the day in the Chautauqua ballroom, the sug­gested location for the Under­graduate Club. The administration has repeatedly cited this as the main obstacle in implementing the club, which both Van Wolvlear and McDonnell believe must operate on 
a regular, nightly basis to be success­ful. Ciotta suggested in his 
• • .Arms 

continued/rom page 1 
ney was allowed to make his case. 
The Pentagon responds that Spin· 
ney's study is "historical" and 
doesn't take into account the 32 
procurement reforms known as the "Carlucci initiatives," after Frank Carlucci, the former deputy defense secretary who ordered them in 1981. 
The initiatives include increased second floor office to Room 1.5, the previous location of the volunteer services office, which is now vacant. Scholastic would then move into the Dome office, allowing the place­ment bureau to utilize the vacated Scholastic office space to hold inter· 
views for one year. 
"TheScholastic office can accom­
modate 15 interview locations," 
Ciotta said. "This space is situated in 
a location free from outside distrac­
tions and has its own entrance." 

Ciotta also suggested that when the placement bureau moves the in­ierviews into the basement of the library after the completion of the new faculty building, the WSND radio station, currently operating from the O'Shaughnessy building, could permanently move into the oldScholastic office space. 
No official response has yet been given by the administration to Ciot­ta's proposal. 
multi-year" funding instead of year­
to-year purchases, fixed production 
rates and consideration ofa contrac­
tor's past cost performance in 
awarding contracts. 
These changes, according to Chu and other top Defense Department officials, will make production lines more stable and curb the inefficient "boom-and-bust" cycle of military spending. 


impact of a great thinker consists of his capacity to change that climate," Lerner said. 
Often people see new technology as a drawback instead ofan advance, but it. can be good as well as bad. Technology has made progress in fields like genetics and evolutionary theory and helped develop social revolutions, but has made no progress in areas such as race rela­tions and the anatomy of human destructiveness. 
Since technology does cause problems along with its progress, Lerner believes that it is the goal ofa liberal arts education to furnish a method to deal with the new tech­nology. Integrative efforts can be tried out on college campuses to develop a "working, thinking whole out ofnew technologies." 
The lecture was the first in a series 
of lectures on the integration of 

knowledge. Lerner will also lecture Photo by SCOIT BOWER 
Monday, March 28 and Monday, 

While Notre Dame students were on break, the a !'ast array ofautomotive marvels at the Annual
April 11. Both lectures will begin at 

Athletic and Convocation Center was invaded by Cavalcade ofWheels.
7:30p.m. and are open to the public. 


Realignment causes drop in currencies 
BRUSSELS (AP) -A couple of hours after the realignment was an­nounced, the dollar bought 7.2425 French francs, compared to 6.9250 late Friday, and 2.4150 German marks, compared to 2.3900 at the 
end of trading last week. 
Under the realignment, the Dutch guilder was revalued by 3.5 percent against the agreed central rate; the Danish krone went up 2. 5 percent and the Luxembourg and Belgian Italian lira was devalued by 2. 5 per· cent and the Irish pound declined 

3.5 percent. 
A major effect of the realignment was to make French exports and tourism there less expensive and to restrain imports from Germany, France's major trading partner. 
This, French officials hope, will ease France's trade deficit that doubled from 1981 to 1982, sparked a weakening of the franc within the European Moneta!): System and necessitated the currency realign­ment. 
It was the third devaluation of the franc since Socialist Francois Mitter­rand was elected French president in May 1981. 
The talks began on the weekend when foreign exchange markets are closed. But they spilled over into yesterday forcing the finance mini­sters to suspend official trading of ther currencies for the first time in the history ofthe their monetary sys-
tern. 
COUNSELINE 
A new service to the NO community 
239·7793 

HOURS: 4-9pm Mon.-Thurs. 
Counseline is a free, confidential telephone service that offers prolesssionally taped materials that cover a wide variety of student concern 
TAPENO. TITLE 1 Friendship Building 7 Dealing with Constructive Criticism 8 Dealing with Anger 
9 Understanding Jealousy & How to Deal with It 10 How to Say "No" 16 Becoming Open to Others 18 Dating Skills 30 Anxiety & Possible Ways to Cope with II 32 How to Deal with Loneliness 33 How to Handle Fears 35 Building Self-Esteem & Confidence 37 Relaxing Exercises 38 Coping with Stress 39 Female Sex Role·Changes & Stress 44 Learning to Accept Yourself 61 What is Therapy & How to Use II 83 How to Cope with a Broken Relationship 85 Understanding Grief 90 Helping a Friend 160 Early Signs of an Alchohol Problem 161 Responsible Decisions About Drinking 402 Self-Assertiveness 431 What Is Depression 432 How to Deal with Depression 433 Depression as a Life Style 478 Becoming Independent from Parents 
.479 Dealing with Alchoholic Parents 491 Suicidal Crisis 492 · Recognizing Suicidal Potential in Others 493 Helping Someone in a Suicidal Crisis 
Counseline is a completely anonymous service offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9·5 
--CLIP AND SAVE-­
the0BS€RV€R 1s now acc€ptlnq appt1cat1ons 
~OR th€ POSitiOn 0~ 

assistant f=eatuRes €b1toR 
appt1cat1ons must B€ m sy ~RJbay, 5 pm call SaRah at 239-5313 ~oR moR€ m~oRmatJon 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J 


~~~~--~~-~-~-~~~---~~~_j 
! I l  Spring Concert NOTRE DAME CONCERT BAND Tues. March 22 nd  l II  
I  A.C.C.  f  
~  Uniuersity of Notre Dame  ~  
I ~  Admission Free 8:15pmf• I J li J I, r.j I r 1  I ~  

Live for God and His People as a ... 


Capuchin 

a what? 
Capuchin Franciscans are a religious fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's world. 
Join us in promoting peace, education and justice--in ghettoes ... in jails... iri t soup kitchens ... in parishes ... in halfwa~ houses... on radio and TV. 
Join us in working with and for the advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, native Americans and people of the -~ .:rd World in Central America. 
Check out whe,her being a Capuchin, committed to living for God and his people, in the spirit of Francis, is for you. No obligation. Write today for more information. 

...... Clip and MairTodayl ..................... Father John Holly, OFM Capuchin, 1820 Mt. Elliott Avenue, Detroit, Ml 48207 _Yes, send me information about the Capuchin way of life. Name Age ________ 
College ___________ Address 
City Stat~:~ ---------Zip ______ 
The Observer Tuesday, March 22, 1983 __:_ page 4 
~ 
i 
r 
r 
I r 
I r 
t 
t 
~ 
f 
r 
r 
I 
r 
~ 

Applications available for: 
*
Senior Formal Commissioners 

*
Senior Disorientation Week Chairperson 

*
Senior Advisory Council 


Pick up applications on Wed March 23 at Student Activities. Applications due by Tues March 29 
Questions? Call Tricia 8089 


CORBY ' S salut€S 
Coach Ph€lps anb h1s valiant 1982-83 rlqhtlnq IRISh--­
.= thanks ~OR a CjR€at SEaSOn op€n W€bn€sbay 5 pm. 


Exciting Things Ate Happening at 
Daniel's Den Lounge Ramada Inn South Bend 
Back by popular demand March 21·26: 
The Great Sleepy Martin 
M·Th  Dollar Drink Nite  
on bar liquor & domestic  
beer  
F·Sat  Each person will receive a  
2 for 1 drink ticket  
Sun  We are now open Sunday 8·12 pm  
with live country music by  
Whiskey River Band  

52890 U.S. 33 North of Cleveland Rd., South Bend, 272-5220 
As EPA administrator 

Reagan nominates Ruckelshaus 
WASHINGTON (AP) -William 
D. Ruckelshaus, tired when he refused to rescue President Nixon from the tangle of Watergate, was chosen by another president yester­day to help un~narl the political mess at the Environmental Protec­tion Agency. 
President Reagan announced Ruckelshaus' nomination as EPA ad­ministrator at an impromptu news conference where he defended his administraton's record on the en­vironment, but added, "I believe we can do better." 
Ruckelshaus said he had been promised a "free hand" in trying to solve the worst crisis in the history of the agency tllat he headed at its founding 12 years ago. 
His first priority, Rickebhaus said, will be to "get on with this enor­mously complicated job of cleaning up our air and water and protecting 
our  citizens  against  toxic  sub­ 
stances."  
Reagan's  first  EPA  chief,  Anne  

McGill Burford, resigned on March 9 in an effort to stem multiplying al­legations of mismanagement, con­flicts of interest and "sweetheart 
continuedfrom page 1 
one-third to one-half of the juniors needed to move off.campus. Anyone who chose to join one of them off­campus would not be penalized for breaking the housing contract. 
Exempt from this plan would he scholarship athletes, who are guaranteed housing, handicapped students, and resident assistants. In addition, hall officers and student senators from district 1·4 would be exempted. 
These last exemptions have been 
ruled legitimate hecause these deals" with polluters being inves­tigated by a halt~dozc:n congres­sional committee~. 
Reagan denied that he had sent out a message that the EPA should favor corporate polluters. "All that I had ever proposed was that they should be fair," he: said. 
"After the dust sc:ttles and the country sees Bill Ruckelshaus at work, our people will recognize that this administration's commitment to a clean environment is solid and un­shakeable," Reagan said. 
"lie is the: right man for the right job at the right time." 
Ruckelshaus, who was picked to head the EPA when it was created by Nixon in 1970, was given high marks as a competent administrator who 
got  the  agency  off  on  the  right  
course.  
Later,  Nixon  tired  Ruckelshaus  

when the then-deputy attorney general refused to tire special prosecutor Archibald Cox as part of the "Saturday Night Massacre" during the Watergate scandal in 1973. 
Since 1976, Ruckelshaus has served as senior vice president of 
people were elected to "represent and serve," which they would be unable to effectively do if they lived off-campus. The Student Gover·n­ment Constitution requires senators to live in the district they represent: 
Class officers, student body of­fleers, and all others not included in these exemptions would he subject to the lottery under this plan. While McAuliffe noted these proposals were all approved by the Hall Presi­dents Council "by large margins," he said Van Wolvlear and Heppen "don't have to follow any of these recommendations." 

'} ~ at LaFortune Ballroom 
l!h'qww.fM.f&M'&'A?fJ'JJ'J'J'<W/////$.4'JwJ'd/,4iW//..;W/$$$&::!'4%'??·· ~ ?0'.'''WY/0?@/Af:i/J'd'/A%· j 
F E
c • 2 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
LaFortune Little Theatre 7:00PM Tuesday March 22 





~~ 4j~ 1r~tt::STEDIN
,.,v 

• 
apnl ' HELPING TO RUN INDIVIDUAL EVENTS???? 

law and corporate affairs of the Weyerhaeuser Co., a giant timber and paper products company 
located outside Seattle, Wash.  
In Congress, leaders of parties forecast swift Senate tlrmation of the nomination.  both con­ 

"I predict he will be confirmed overwhelmingly," said Majority Leader Howard H. Baker. Leader Robert C. Byrd said Ruckelshaus was perceived as "able, a man of in­tegrity." 
Ruckelshaus said Reagan had asked him to take the job last week. He said he did not accept until he had discussed the offer "at some length with my wife" and until he discussed with Reagan and his top aides "their commitment to the en­vironment." 
Ruckelshaus had breakfast yester­day morning with Chief of Staff James A. Baker Ill and Presidential Counselor Edwin Meese before appearing with Reagan for the for­mal announcement. 
• • • Senate 

McAuliffe said Heppen told him the reason a lottery is needed is not because "more freshmen and trans­fer students are being admitted, but fewer people are moving off­campus." Several senators spec­ulated on the reasons for this. 
Student Body President-elect Brian Callaghan suggested "people stay because they are more con­servative; they take the convenience ofliving on campus and don't care as much any more about parietals and kegs because they're used to it." Senator-elect Rob Bertino said Assis­tant Vice President for Student Af­fairs Father Gregory Green told him 
this was part of "a cycle which oc­
curs all over the country." Students, 
Green said, at times tend to flock off­
campus, and at others choose to 
remain on campus. 
Junior Class President Mark 
Ruehlmann suggested having 
people double up in some dorms so 
fewer people would have to leave. 
However, Student Body Treasurer John Eichenlaub and others said that would "not be feasible" and would make the lottery unfair by affecting some dorms more than others. 
Student Body President Lloyd Burke noted that a university .com­mittee formed in response to the PACE Report, which will study "the general education requirements" of the University, does not have any students on it. McAuliffe said he believed" input from students, espe­cially seniors, would be important on such a committee." Burke said he would talk to Provost Timothy 
O'Meara and see if a student could 
be added to the committee. 
Burke also announced that the 

final PACE Report recommenda­
tions will be voted on at next week's 
meeting, the last for this administra­
tion. 
Senior Class President Mark Mai 
announced that the sale of senior 
formal bids has been extended 
through tomorrow from 3:30 to 
5:30 in Lafortune. 

-~~--­
The Observer Tuesday, March 22, 1983-page 5 
Rebound from recession 
Report shows econoiDIC• recovery 
WASHINGTON (AP) The tiona! product expanding at a 4 per­in the spring," said with a smile: "If 
economy likely will notch 4 percent cent rate during the first three one listens closely, one can almost growth in the first quarter, the best months of this year. hear a roar." spurt in two years and compelling That would be the fastest growth Private forecasters, however, evidence that recovery is well under rate since the first quarter of 1981 warned that interest rates are still 
way, a government report showed and confirm the near-unanimous too high to generate a broad and las­yesterday. view of economists that the severe ting recovery. President Reagan cited the news recession <hat began in mid-1981 
"Interest rates have to come

as a promise of a "long and strong" drew to an end last December. down some more for a good second­
rebound from the worst recession Reagan said "we're encouraged half recovery." said Allen Sinai, vice
since World War II. Other ad­that recovery is underway and that it 
president of Data Resources Inc. in
ministration officials were equally looks like it'll be long and strong." 
Ca.mbridge, Mass. "The risks are very
optimistic. White House economist Martin S. · 
high ofthe recovery petering out be­
Bur private economists were far Feldstein said the new estimate sug­
cause of high t interest rates."
more cautious about the prospects gests the economy can sustain a 
Sinai said economic activity is still 

for a robust and durable upturn that growth rate of at least -! percent for pretty tlat except for strong gains in
would put joblesss Americans back the rest of the year, a better perfor­cars and housing. That suggests that
to work. They said the recovery is mance than the 5.I percent growth the civilian jobles~ rate -which has
still fragile and could be shattered the administration had torecast for receded from a recession peak of
unless interest rates decline further. I98:'l just two months ago. lO.H percent to a current 10.-i per­
The Commerce Department's so­And Treasury Secretary Donald T. 
cent -will edge up again this
clled "tlash" report, a crude. prelimi­Regan. who misread the deep reces­spring, he said.
nary estimate of economic activity. sion a year ago by torecasting the 
·'The recovery is not broad

~howed intlation-adjusted gross na-economy "would come roaring back enough to encourage bu~iness to rehire people at a rapid clip," he said.

Nature blamed for 
David Ernst. an economist with Washington-based Evans Economics, said economic growth 
will not be as brisk this spring. "We are unequivocally out of recession, 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Federal ly fly through the shear the plane en­but the recovery still has not spread investigators said yesterday that a vi­countered. to all sectors of the economy." cious downdraft -or "microburst" Scientists have been examining -slammed a Pan American 727 jet­wind shear. which occurs when 

Pan Am plane crash 
Appeal useless
liner into the ground near New Or­there is a sudden shift ofwind direc­leans last summer, killing 153 tion, for a number ofyears. The most people. treacherous shear is believe to be The National Transportation the "microburst," a volume of air, 

Court upholds Harris conviction 
Safetv Board said the powerful wind perhaps two miles thick, that shoots 
WASHINGTON (AP) The in capital punishment cases, but it itself before a jury against theshea; hit the aircraft just seconds af­toward the ground. It has been been Supreme Court yesterday refused to possibly could be more limited than woman's allegation!> of libel and in­
ter it lifted off in a thunderstorm last a particular focus of attention since overturn Jean Harris' murder con­that. vasion ofprivacy.
July 9 -and with little warning to it was linked to the crash of an East­viction for the 1980 shooting of The court also agreed to decide The appeal for Mrs. Harris, who isthe pilot. ern Airlines jetliner in 1966 in New Scarsdale diet doctor Herman Tar­by July in dispute from Wyoming serving her sentence at BedfordPan American World Airways York City. 
nower. whether the government may con­Hills state prison in WestchesterFlight ""'59 reached an altitude of no Although there were ground-level 
The action ends any practical tinue to collect billions ofdollars un· County, N.Y., was filed last Jan. 20­
more than I50 feet and was airborne wind shear detection devices at the 
chance for Mrs. Harris, 59, to clear der the 1980 windfall profits tax on five days after its filing deadline.
only 29 secnds before it plunged in­New Orleans airport, the safety her name or have lifted her 15-year­oil. Her lawyer, Herald Price Fahrin­to a residential area and burst into board said they provided far too im­to-life prison sentence. The court last month agreed to ger, asked the justices not tot1ames. All I50 people aboard and precise information to warn the Pan The court, without comment, review a ruling that had declared the penalize Mrs. Harris "for counsel'sthree on the ground were killed. Am pilot of the shear along his flight turned away argument~ that she was tax unconstitutional. Yesterday, the inadvertent oversight." He said itAmong its recommendations, the path. 
denied a fair trial. iustices granted a Reagan ad­was caused by "several heavy profes­
safetv board urged airlines to in­Although thunderstorms were The court agreed to decide in a ministration request that oral argu­sional commitments." 
cre~e pilot training on how to deal reported in the vicinity of the air­California case whether convicted ments be held in April -makingwith such phenomena and urged the port, investigators said the wet ather murderers can be sentenced to possible a decision byJuly. 
The court has the discretion toFederal Aviation Administration to that day "was not unusual" for that death when state courts do no~ The court cleared the way for a excuse missed deadlines, but whenhasten development of better shear part ofthe country. The board said it 
study. what punishment others in trial in a Detroit housewife's lawsuit late appeals are rejected the justices
detection equipment. was "reasonable" for he pilot to take similar circumstances receive. against ABC over a I977 news never explain whether the denials ofThe board said the pilot acted off based on the information he had The court's decision could spell program she says "insinuated" she review are based on a lack ofment in
reasonably in deciding to take off available. 
out for the first time whether such was a prostitute. The court left intact the arguments raised or on the tardi­despite indications of severe 
Documents previously made "proportionality review" is required a ruling that torces ABC to defend 
ness.
weather. But it declared that the 

public have shown that the crew ...............................................
failure of equipment to adequately was concerned about the weather. detect wind shears was a contribut­They discussed procedures at length ing factor in the crash. for possibly aborting the takeoff and 
Every Tuesday 
The board held off until todav the used a higher speed than normal be­
night in the
formal release ofa list of more than a cause of concern about a possible 



Wild Wheel 
Terrace Lounge, 
dozen recommendations. Among wind shear. 
them are several urging the FAA to The NTSB said tests in a tlight 
experience 
speed up development of both simulator showed the Boeing ""'27 
Wild Wheel 
ground and airborne wind detection theoretically could have tlown 

Crab Races! 
Crab Races! 
equipment. , through the shear encountered by 
Investigators believe that such Flight 759, but that the pilot did not 
FREE Registration 
equipment would have given the have adequate warning to make the 
at 8:30 p.m. select a crab from our stable, and anxiously await 
pilot more time to adjust and possib-required adjustments. 
the 9:00p.m. post time! Prizes will be awarded to the winners. 
r----------------------------, 
Between races, drink discount prices will be spinning on our
1 it JlL Pittsburgh Club ~ I 
Wild Wheel! Wherever the wheel stops, that's the price tor

I 1/11§ Easter Break Bus Sign-ups Jj 
drinks during the next 15 minutes, as low as 50¢! 
Come out. of your shell at the Terrace Lounge every Tuesday tor South Bend's only Wild Wheel Crab Races! 
I ~ LaFortune-Little Theatre ~ It
j Wednesday March 23, 1983, 7 pm ~ ~ b .<3>·~~~ ~~~\, •. g ~ 
Buses will leave ND/CCE and SMC/Holy-Cross: Thursday March 31, 1983 at 4 pm 
Buses return from Pitt Greyhound Terminal: 

Monday April4, 1983 at 1 pm 
48.00 round trip 
@ Fares 
29.00 one way 

FIRST COME, FIRST SERVED I NO REFUNDS Note: Meeting for anyone interested in running for '· .; club officer following sign-ups~<$4 



L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------J
~ 

The Observer Tuesday, March 22, 1983 -page 6 
• • . c.s.c. 


APPhoto 
The U.S.S. Enterprise, seen loaded with aircraft, sails into Sasebo 
harbor in western japan yesterday morning. Her first port call in 
15years drewprotests byjapanese leftist and anti-nucleargroups as well as greetingsfrom right-wing groups. 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for :ND/SMC students (S x 10 space $18.80 per month) 
CALL 259-0335 to RESERVE SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY 816 East Me Kinley 
Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
• 
198g ge~Lo~ CCFotrmaQ 
CBLd gaQeg 8)(te11gLo11 today a11d tohloMow . -. ~CJ'olrhme ~obb~ g:go -s:go 
• "ffieuiAatn &ent" ob 1982 ·v+\:pltLQ g cpaQmelr ffiouge, ChLcago 
continuedfrom page 1 

Holy Cross," Schlaver stated, "except possibly when Father Sarin founded Notre Dame." 
"Teaching and research are out of our control," Schlaver said, "we have lost a number of religious on faculty because of hiring procedures, and tenure policies." 
Since the religious at Notre Dame 
must follow the same tenure track as 
the lay faculty, and because there are 
few postions open that the con­
gregation has the specialized per­
sonnel to fill, the numbers of the 
Holy Cross in teaching and research 
have been declining, Malloy pointed 
out. 

There are many religious in the theology department, and a number in the arts and leters department as well, Malloy said, but it is getting harder to put Holy Cross members on the faculty. 
"All things being equal, they are 
supposed to hire Holy Cross 
people," Schlaver said, "but things 
are never equal." 

The administrative aspect of the 
Holy Cross has not decreased. The 
Holy Cross is highly visible through 
the actions of Father Hesburgh and 
Father Joyce, and there are many 
members of the order in the ad­
ministration, Malloy said. 

The goal ofthe Holy Cross order is 
not to dominate Notre Dame, but 
"to work together with lay people," 
Schlaver said. "We could never do it 
alone," he acknowledged. 

In 1967, the Holy Cross com­
munity decided to tum the gover­
nance of the University over to a 
predominatly lay board of trustees, 
and many people thought the reason 
was because the Holy Cross Con­
gregation was "out ofit," Tyson said . 
Leadership, he stressed, still remains 
with the Holy Cross. "Our relation 
with the trustees is one of mutual 
trust; there is 'leadership without 
control.'" 

Admittedly, the Holy Cross presence in the dormitories has declined, Malloy said. However, there are many more dormitories than in previous years and one-third are for women only, preventing a male rector from running the hall. TheJoliet Franciscan sisters take the place of Holy Cross priests in the women's halls. 
"The effective number of Holy 
Cross members in the halls has not 
changed," Malloy stated. 

The Holy Cross prides itself on its "dual role," said Schlaver. Members are present in the community, (i.e., i the residence halls) as well as in scholarship. The "dual role," ·however, has become harder for 
members to maintain, because ofthe great demands of scholarship and running a hall at the same time, Schlaver pointed out. 
The Holy Cross is also very in­volved in the area of campus minis­try, Malloy said. The emphasis has shifted from "how many confessions one could hear to more of a social justice postion," Malloy noted. Fr. Don McNeil, a Holy Cross priest, is in charge of the Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns. 
The task force, Tyson said, was "exttremely optimistic, and amazing." The members of the task force interviewed people from both Holy Cross universities, Notre Dame and Portland University, including students, faculty, administration, staff, and trustees. The results of the interviews seem to indicate that "the Holy Cross presence is boh wanted and needed," Tyson said. He pointed out that the student group 
was the best in supporting the present roles of the Holy Cross, in­dicating satisfaction with the relationship between the university and the congregation, and the direc­tion they are headed. 
"No radical departure from the present situation is anticipated," Malloy said. 


Snow hits Midwest, floods hit Northeast 
CHICAGO (AP)-Spring opened its act yesterday with a heavyweight Midwestern snowstorm, freak floods that drove hundreds of people from their homes, and a chorus of howling rains and dancing tor­nadoes. 
At least three people were killed and several were injured in the violent weather, including a Purdue University student who died in an accident involving two snow­mobiles and a sled in West Lafayette, Ind. 
A snowstorm worse than any of the winter in some areas botched up cities such as Chicago, Milwaukee, Detroit and Fort Wayne, Ind., with 
half a foot or more of windblown 
snow. Drifts were waist-high in parts 
of Indiana and southern Michigan, 
where up to a foot ofsnow fell. 
Many schools closed, rush-hour traffic was snarled, and air travel was disrupted after the curtain went up on Spring 1983 at 11:39 p.m. EST the night before. Hundreds of traffic accidents were reported. 
"It's bad out there," said Robert Butler, 39, a truck driver at a truck stop at Oak Creek, Wis. "There are quite a few cars in ditches." 
Drenching rains sent streams gus­hing out of their banks and forced evacuations in several communities in the Northeast. ­


The Picture Man  
Junior Parent's Weekend pictures are in! Pick-up at LaFortune South Alcove Wed. March 23rct Thurs March 24th Noon--5 pm Re-orders taken at this time I ..~-~--~."~·)181·,_,~~  






HOFSTRA LAW SCHOOL 
SUMMER SESSIONS 1983 
SUMMER SESSION 1 May 23 to July 1 
COURSES CREDITS Business Planning 2 Child, Family & State 3 Commercial Paper 3 Conflict of Laws 3 Criminal Procedure 4 Debtor-Creditor 3 Evidence 4 Family Law 3 Individual Income Tax 4 Law and Psychiatry 3 Real Estate Transactions 4 Unfair Trade Practices 3 
SUMMER SESSION 2 
July 5 to August 15 
COURSES  CREDITS  
Administrative law  3  
Business Organizations  4  
Comparative Law  3  
Corporate Tax  3  
Estate and Gift Tax  3  
Labor Law  3  
Legislative Process  3  

For Further Information Write or Call: 
(516) 560·5916 




HOFSTAA 
UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF LAW Hempstead, Long lslana, New York 11550 
Hofstra Un1versity IS an equal educational opportunity InStitUtiOn 
Tuesday, March 22, 1983 -page 7



Editorials 
America the Greatest? 
Here in Taiwan, American domination of the world scene is felt very strongly. The fate of the people of Taiwan, like those of Palestine, Mexico, and Western Europe, is very much dependent on the United States and how it follows its so-called "American ideals." 1 would wager, though, that despite assertions to the contrary, a quick poll of any of these people might reveal a lack of faith in America's "greatness." Powerful, yes. Great, well, maybe not. 
Michael Skelly 
Guest Columnist 

One could spend much time debating the relative or absolute "greatness" of the United States. It is doubtful that any progress would be made, especially with Americans, who are told from the time that they can speak that their land is number one. To get at the root of this question, it might be worthwhile to momentarily set aside our very American penchant for superlatives and see what the im­plications of our self-proclaimed greatness are. 
Some ofthcm are rather disturbing. Implicit in the American myth of greatness is the no­tion that our country is very much worth emulating, and perhaps duplicating. It is ob­vious that ifwe could produce many Americas around the world, everyone would be much happier; the world would be led to a higher level of civilization. This is presumptious at best and rather dangerous at worst. Although America undoubtedly has a great many aspects deserving of respect, but it also has a fair number that the rest of the world would be well advised to avoid. 
It seems that not all people ofthe world are convinced of our greatness, or perhaps they've not been. told. For example, the French, xenophobically, one might say, have recently enacted laws to prevent the Americanization of their culture and lan­guage. In Singapore, the schools have recently begun to teach Confucianism in an effort to preserve their own culture and defend it against the inevitable assaults from the West. Mexico Is driving to purge her tongue of "Americanisms" from the north. 
These certainly seem to be worthwhile ef­
. forts. The Americanization of the world is a rather frightening scenario, and not such an unlikely one given the march ofAmerican cul­tural imperialism around the world. The prospect of American values !>upplanting in­digenous ones in other societies, naturally enough, does not often appeal to them. I have found few Chinese who would trade their tightly-knit families for broken American ones, and have encountered a fair few who consider American mores more than a bit too 
liberal. We no doubt would consider theirs more than a bit stifling. The point is, however, that the question of good and bad does not seem to have a great deal of bearing in a great many, though certainly not all, cultural com­parisons. America's claim to be the greatest assumes that our culture is better. 
That the United States has a great deal of power makes the myth of greatness all the more dangerous, for the power and influence of America is manifested both in dealing with and within foreign societies. If these dealing are tainted by the colonial attitude that our country is "better" than another, the effects can be extremely detrimental to the society with which we are dealing. This applies both on the intergovernmental level, where con­descension towards foreign countries may set in due to our feelings ofsuperiority. and in the economic sphere, where multinationals are given subtle justification (as if they needed any more) for marketing productsconsidered essential in the United States but which are of 
minimal ifany use to those in the Third World. People are convinced by slick marketing strategies that the latest widget from America is essential for "modern living." Along with their products these companies peddle other American goods, for example, our standards of beauty. Particularly irksome here is Taipei is the presence of chic Western models advertising various American "goods." The message is clear that to look American is to look good; to look Chinese is not commented on, though the conclusion is rather obvious. 
The new standards of civilization are not spuntaneously arrived at, but are rather care­fully marketed, packaged, and sold. The new white man's burden of spreading the "wonders" ofAmerican society has been very willingly shouldered by Madison A venue and its counterparts around the world, with very saddening results in the form of broken and dispirited cultures. 
Perhaps the most dangerous thing about 
our self-proclaimed greatness is the threat 
that it poses to ourselves. An interesting les­
son can be learned from the Chinese, who 
before they came in contact with the West, 
thought their country to be the greatest in 
their world, as well as being in its geographic 
center, hence the rendering in Chinese of 
China as the "Middle Kingdom." Upon frrst en­
countering the West, they wanted to have no­
thing to do with it or its products, for 
barbarians could produce nothing of value. 
They felt that theirs was the best possible 
society, one that had its faults but was the best men could do.. The consequence of this com­placency was a society that progressed very slowly from the nineteenth century on, and China still suffers today from her lack of in­novation and improvement during those hundreds ofyears. This is a very simplistic ex­planation but there does seem to be some basis for an analogy here. We Americans today undoubtedly think of ourselves as the Middle Kingdom, and perhaps rightly so, for we are clearly the most powerful nation on earth. However, there are very definite dangers to our s_9ciety's clinging to the myth ofgreatness. 
We, unlike nineteenth century China, do 
not face the prospect of being overrun by a 
culture more socially and technically ad­
vanced than our own. But we do face the 
threat of a growing ~omplacency. It is all too 
easy for us to look around us and see that we are richer stronger or more scientifically ad­vanced than Russia, France, Mexico or wherever, so "we're great." America is in grave danger ofsuccumbing to the temptaton 
of sitting on its laurels. Americans and America as a nation have the unique oppor­tunity to make our own society as well as the world a much better place. We sometimes rise to this task, but all too often fail to so well. Our satisfaction with the status quo keeps us from the realization of a society and a world that could be a much better place for men to live in. 
Confidence can be very useful, and Americans are without a doubt a very confi­dent people, and have reason to be, for our nation has achieved some of the greatest feats in the history of man. However, it seems that our confidence often gives way to overcon­fidence, which leads to a certain closedmin­dedness that keeps us from realizing our own failings as well as appreciating the fmer points ofour neighbors around the world. We assure ourselves that ours is the greatest nation on .. earth, and in doing so overlook the screaming injustices in our society, not to mention those that America is privy to in other areas of the world. We also fail to look outside the walls of 
our Middle Kingdom to see what the rest of humanity is doing, to see if perhaps a non­American might have some relevant ideas about what man is and how he should live. Our ethnocentricity blocks out the stimuli that are so necessary for the maintenence ofa 
dynamic society. 
America is a nation founded on dreams, dreams of a better life, a better future, and a better world. We have come a long way in achieving these dreams, but there is still a long way to go. We should appreciate America for what it is, but not lose sight of what it could be. Too much superlative talk only blinds us to the realities ofour own society, and to what_ the rest of the world is doing, and so prevents the realization of the dream that could be. 
Michael Skel(y is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters, studying at the National Taiwan Universi~v in Taipei. 

P. O.BoxQ 
Bowling Green salute 

DearEditor: 
I watched a disheartening death March 4 

and 5. 
The goal light flashed ten times more be­

hind Notre Dame netminder Bob McNamara 
than it did behind Bowling Green's Mike 
David and Wayne Collins. The final horn on 
that Saturday night did little more than serve 
as the death knell for the Fighting Irish hock­
ey team. 
Rest in peace. 

As a Bowling Green alumnus, a rabid member of BG's famed Section A and an in­terested observer of college hockey, the series provided me an insight into the heart 
ofthe amateur athlete. 
From the moment they skated out onto the ice on Friday night bedecked in those black armbands until they left the ice on Saturday night amid the cheers and fight song humming of the more than 3,400 in at­tendance, the Irish scrapped, clawed, dug, and raced against long odds. They had been doing the same in the final five weeks of the regular season, winning seven battles, losing two and tying one._;;. ~ally that lifted them 
into the playoffs. 
Unfortunately the war had already been 

lost. 
When the athletic department issued the 
pink slip, it took a lot ofpride for Lefty Smith 
and his team to go out and play in a lame 
duck situation. And it took more to work 
hard enough to make the playoffs. And they 
did it against some ofthe stiffest competition 
in the nation, let alone the Central Col­
legiate Hockey Association. 

Now it is over. Some players will graduate, some will transfer, still others may stay in South Bend to complete their educations and play for the club team. Lefty and his pink sweater are on hold. And those die-hard, green-and-gold clad Irish fans that sat stunned in the aftermath, waiting for a sense of finality to sink in, are now !eft without their favorite diversion. 
To most Notre Darners, the loss is a black 
mark, but only a minor one that can easily be 
forgotten. After all, there is the Irish football 
program, an internationally known anomaly 
carved in legend and nourished by legacy. 
There is also those co-tenants of the Con­
vocation Center, the basketball team, that 
made its name by preying on smaller schools 
ad occasionally upsetting a bigger one,(like 
UCLA). In a few weeks, in the midst of 
springtime sunbathing, the thought of ice 
hockey in pastoral Indiana will be rare, 
indeed. 

For the record, the Irish hockey program has been put six feet (or is that six figures) asunder. Odds are that this is one of the few flowers that lie on freshly turned earth, one of the few tributes. It comes from the heart, stimulated by the scene oftwenty or so men huddled together around their goal, consol­ing each other while the victors waited patiently in a single file line from blue line to opposite goal line, banging their sticks on the ice in unision with the applauding crowd. In wh::t must be a rarity in the rabidity of college athletics, most, if not all, partisan barriers had been crossed. 
And, ever the thoughtful person, Lefty took the time to congratulate each of our players and wish them luck before going to spend a few last moments with his van­quished last team. A fitting touch ofclass. 
It is much the concensus o(opinion that the loss of Notre Dame, its name and rich athletic tradition, will be a blow to the credibility and aspirations ofcollege hockey in general and the CCHA in particular. But, I feel that the loss of college hockey, "deep­sixed" during an off year, had hurt the credibility of Notre Dame far more. 
Rest in peace. 
jim Rudloff 



Ih~~r======~='==~ 
Box Q, .'Votre Dame, IN 46556 
The Obserr.·er is the independent newspaper published by the students of tht: Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies (>f the administration of either institution. The news is rt>ported as ac­curately and as ohjectively as possible. Unsigned editor tts represent the opinion nfa majority of the Editorial Board. Comm• ntaries, letter~· .nd the Inside Column depict the views ofrheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on c.ampus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239·5303 
News Editor....................~ ......... Bob Vonderheide
Editorial Board 

NewsEditor.................................Mark Worschen 
Editor-in-Chief............................David Dziedzic Managing Editor....................Marg:u-et Fosmoe Department Managers Executive Edttor..............................Paul McGinn Production!Graphics...........Joseph Musumeci Business Manager ........................Daniel O'Hart Sports Editor ...... ......................Michael Riccardi Controller....... .. ..................... ... .. Alex Szilvas Saint Mav:/s Editor...............Anne Monastyrski Advertising Manager.......'...... ......Chris Ower. Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager... .................Mark Miottc. Photo Editor....................................... Scott Bower Systems Manager ......................._....Hruct> 0akley 
Founded November 3, 1966 




Sports =l=~=r=t=·=ettl.::.s===============T=u=es=d=ay=,M:;::a=rc=h=z=z.=1=9s=3=p=a=ge=s 
By Tbe Observer and Tbe Associated Press 
Bookstore Basketball will begin after Easter vaca­tion. Watch this column for upcoming information concerning the mandatory captains' meeting, which will take place next week. 
Tbe Observer 

Rich O'Leary's lacrosse team dropped a pair of games during its trip lO the East over break, falling to Yale, 17-5, and Duke. 13-;. The team played well in spots, but was victimized by the many mistakes tha:t a young team in its t1rst games ofthe year can be expected to make. More details on the games will appear in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
' .

The men s tennts team enjoyed a very successful spring break in California as it won seven out of its nine matches. In its tirst action of the spring, Coach Tom Fallon's squad won its first seven matches beating Claremont (6-3 ), Pomona ( 7-2 ), Cal State at Los Angeles ( 7-2 ), Pierce ( ~-2 ), Whittier ( 6--~ ), Redlands ( ;-·!),and l"C-San Diego ( ;.5 ). A match wuh Point Lorna was rained out. After the ~even wins, the Irish droppc(j a close ';--t decision to tough San Diego State, and, then, showing fatigue after eight matches in etght days, lost to Minnesota, 7-2. More details on the team's trip will ap­
pear in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
Noel O'Sullivan's golfers had a very good break as they grabbed fourth place in the 18-team Florida International Sunshine Tournament. It was Notre Dame's best finish in the tourna­ment in O'Sullivan's ten years as golf coach. .Junior Frank Leyes was the star ofthe meet as he carne t d fourth place in the individual com­petition, t1nishing only three shots out of the lead. For more details on the successful tourney and a season preview, see the article in tomorrow's paper. -Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team competed in five dual meets in Hilton He<!d, S.C., over the break, winning two and losing three. The wins came against George Wash­ington, 7-2, and Georgia Southern, 5-4. The losses came at the hands of Wake Forest (5-4), Virginia (8-1 ), and Miami of Ohio (9-0). The 2-3 mark was not bad considering that all of the other teams were Division I. Notre Dame, which had been scheduled to face Michigan at the ACC today, has postponed that match to the Easter Break. :\-tore details on the trip tomorrow. -The Observer 
Kirt Bjorkbecame only the sixth Notre Dame icer to earn all-America honors last week when he was named to the American Hockey Coaches Association All-America team. It was also an­nounced that Bjork was selected to play in the AHCA senior all-star' game, slated for March 28 at the Met Center in Bloomington, Minn. 
-Tbe Observer 

The Irish ruggers begin spring practices today on the concourse of the ACC at 4: I;. For more information, call the or­ganization's president, Jeff Ried, at 283-161 ;. -The Observer 
An Tostal Inner Tube Water Polo captains will have a meeting tonight at 7 in the basement ofFarley HaiL This is very important, as matches will begin tomorrow. Any questions call Cathy Trusela at 6861 orJohn Smith at 6837. -Tbe Observer 
All prospective 1983-84 cheerleaders should note that there is a mandatory organizational meeting in the LaFortune Ballroom tonight at 7. -The Obsen1er 
Women's Bookstore Basketballsignupswill take place on Thursday from 6 to H p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. More details on the tournament will be announced in the upcoming days. -Tbe Obseruer 
The NCAA Mideast Regional women's basket­hall tournament ar Notre Dame this weekend will feature Big Ten champion Indiana..m H~-~6 upset wmner over 1\Jo. I I Kentucky last week in Lexington. "'o. 8 Gcorgia. the Southeastern Conference champion. No.9 Tennessee. the region's top seed, and No. I :i Missis­sip[Ji. also of the powerful SEC. Tickt:ts arc available at the .ACC to students and the gt:ncral public. The scmit1nals arc set for Friday at 7 
and 9 and the t1nal is Sunday afternoon at I 2:30. -The Observer 
Knute Rockne .\1ass and Breakfast. commemorating the 
;2nd anniversary of the coach's tragic death, will be held this Sun­
day, March 27. The Notre Dame Club ofSaint .Joseph Valley, which 
sponsors the event, invites all ND-SMC students, faculty and staff. 
The Mass will begin at 8:15a.m. in the South Dining HalL The break­
fast will begin at 9:15 a.m. The guest speaker at the breakfast will be 
Tony Roberts, NO football play-by-play announcer for the Mutual 
Radio Network. Co-captains Blair Kiel and Stacy Toran will attend 
also. Special guests include members of the Rockne family and for­
mer Rockne players. The cost of the breakfast is S4.25 for adults and 
$3.25 for children. For reservations, call the NO Alumni Office ( 239­6000) or Chris Twist (evenings at 272-0164). -Tbe Observer 
Former ND assistant coach Tom McLaughlin last week resigned his post as head man at the University of Massachu­setts after his second consecutive 20-loss season. McLaughlin served as an assistant to Digger Phelps from 1976-81. -AP 
The NCAA Hockey Final Four was determined in two-game series last weekend. Western Colegiate Hockey Association champion Wisconsin defeated St. Lawrence and will meet Providence, a winner over Minnesota-Duluth, in the first semit1nal at Grand Forks, N.D. The other semit1nal will pit Harvard, which ousted CCHA champion Michigan State, 9-8, and Minnesota, which eliminated New Hampshire. The championship game is Sun­day at the University of North Dakota. -AP 
• • • Trip 
continuedfrom page 12 

hits. But Notre Dame's only run in the game, courtesv ofa Chryst triple, was not enough to avert a :i-1 loss. 
Second-baseman Jack Moran wa1> the star of Notre Dame's 8-1 victory in the second game, as he drove in four runs with a triple and a single. Shortstop Jason Schomer drove in two run~. while Passinault had a double and Doming a sacratice tly to drive in the other two. Mark Clementz picked up the win as he gave up only three hits in the full seven-inning srim. He struck out ~even and walked just two batters. 
Dt:spite a tlrst-ratt:: pitching elton bv Steve Whitmvcr against a 20-·t ·\rkansas team on Thur~dav. the Irish bats were again fatrlv stlent in the 'i­0 defeat. Beton· bemg taken out in the eigth innmg, Whitmver gave up onlv one run anc.l stx hits while tan­ning nine Razorback hitters. 
On Fridav, it was Bill ~1atre's turn to have an outstanding performance on the mound. Matre gave up just t1ve singles in the nine-inning game while striking out nine in a 3-1 vic­tory over Missouri Southern. Chrvst started the Notre Dame scoring with an RBI-double in the third inning, and then scored on an error. Designated hitter Casey Snyder added an RBI-single in the ninth in­ning. 
Finally, "'otre Dame concluded the tour with a split against South­west Missouri State Saturday. The Irish were trounced in the opener. 
13-1, but rebounded for a 9-7 vic­tory in the nightcap. 
Moran drove in the lone run in the opener. A t1ve-run-t1fth-inning in the second game led the Irish to the second-game win. Vuono drove in three runs with a double and a single, while Chryst drove in rwo more and scored twice himself. Rightt1elder Henry Lang, Dingle and Dorning each drove in one run. Clementz picked up his second win ofthe season without a loss. 
Clementz, by virtue of his having gone 6-0 last year on the mound (with a 1.50 ERA), has still not lost a game in his career for Notre Dame. His 3.51 ERA this year is second to Cross' 2.6"' in eight innings. Matre ( 1-1 ) has a 'i.~7 ERA in 13 innings. 
The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Frtday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. class1f1eds to appear .n the next 1ssue must be rece1vea oy 3 p.m. the bustness dav prtor to 1nsert1on. All classtfteds must be prepatd. 
e1ther tn person or through the mail. 


IClassifieds 
LOST A bnght blue knapsack w1th a INDY! Two w1ld women need a nde to IN­txn thts ad could have been abus1ve J1m& Joseph Drop back ten and suede bottom. It conta1ned a notebook, DY this FRIDAY MARCH 25 Can leave Thanks for an enJoyabte season-tt was
NOTICES 

keys and calculator PLEASE return to anyt1me Call CAROLYN at 3707 Dave -Sorry about all of th1s, but we super! room 334 P W. or call2722 The contents realize that only a tool would do this to his Kat& W1llett are needed lor a group prOJect Thank fnend! P S. Keep watch1ng the Personals· the Hey Trouble!l 
TYPING 

you year s not over yet! This is your generic personal. Thanks tor
Jack1e Boggs HOW DO YOU SPELL UGLY? 

the p1cturesque postcard from S. F.
684-8793 T+M R-E-1 L-L·Y So, how was your break? Welcome back to ""balmy. 85 degree··LOST A Khak1 overcoat w1th pla1d hmng. 


FOR SALE 
Notre Dame. LOVE. Niser

Save on natural v1tamms. Free catalog Irs a London Fog from Brooks Brothers. 
So, Aldonza. 

Hill House. SUite 427, 495 Old York Road. Please call8152 1f found Reward thanks 
"'EXCUSE ME, AMERICA" Welcome back from the Apple! Now TROUBLE CHOW, 
Jenkintown. PA 19046 

A Documentary Film On get to work and learn those linesIll Sex on Union Street? Stoned in Golden FOR SALE 1980 Yamahopper MC DOM HELDER CAMARA A Bastard Gate Park? Topless dancmg? A new
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. Lost-To the young lad1es who are holding Low mileage, Excellent cond1t1on-$300 Internationally known spokesman for religious cult? And all in a few hours? On­my LAUNDRY CARD hOstage ·I need my Please call Dan at x6824 soctal JUStJce and chartsmatlc advocate A REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE ly you my dear could accomplish soCRUISE SHIP JOBSI Great 1ncome laundry PLEASE RETURN NICK x8232. 
for human rrghts and sacral change APOSTOLIC VOLUNTEER PROGAM much. so qwckly' Was Honolulu just aspQtentlal, all occupations For Jnformat1on 
Tomorrow w111 be on campus on TUESDAY. MARCH greal? How many hearts did you break? 
c .11· 602-837-3401, ext 866. 

MARCH23 22 to recruit students who are tnterested You"IIIUSI have to come up and v1sft me 7:00PM, HOWARD HALL 1n otfenng a year of Chnsttan servtce tn sometime big girl and tell me all about 1tl!
7vPING IN MY HOME (resumes. letters. 

educatton, pastoral mmtstry, soctal Welcome back' (Hey. I've run outotNiserreports. term papers. etc). NEAT, AC· HEY SMC JUNIORS' GET INVOLVED 5erv1ces or health care. Contact Center abuse!)

L..-_FO_R_R_EN_T____./ ~...-I_PE_RS_O_N_AL_S_...J
CURATE WORK, REASONABLE AND SIGN UP FOR AN INTERVIEW TO tor Soctal Concerns for more mfo (239-LOVe,RATES. 233-7009. 

BE A SENIOR CLASS COMMISSIONER! 5293) ""The Unsqwshable BodyFURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT 
SIGN·UPS IN STUDENT ACTIVI rtES EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO SCHOOL vEAR CLOSE TO NO 277-APEX ROCKS THE CHAUTAUQUA 
MARCH 22·25 IF ANY QUESTIONS 
Denr LJsa,

TYPING VERY REASONABLE RATES 3604 LAFORTUNE BALLROOM FRI NITE CALL MURPH (5151) OR DENISE J.R.Ioves G.W.P.N. 
Th:ml\ you for your recent correspon­CALL287-5162 FROM 9 30 TIL I .30 
(5173) That s tor you. McHugh' dence. It has conslderablv expanded theStudent Rental, 5·bedroom home. $420 tnfo tn OlJr JlJst how Wtld •s Ntser Spnnq, Typ1ng ALL KINDS 277-8534 after Spm mo. 233-6779 TO A FOOL BORN ON A FOOL'S DAY: anvwHy?·· file. Sounds ltke vou nad your­

ToK K. !f you want TRUE LOVE and AFFEC· self a not old ftme tn S F. vourself Well, as ONCE A FOOL, ALWAYS A FOOLI 
}flings fUSI aren't the same anymore,

Expenenced Typ1st. Mrs. Bedford, 288-902 N. NOTRE DAME-4 BEDROOMS. 
fOlKS.

TION. 1"11 be there I the Beatles sav. Tne love you take ts the2107. Hours Mon. thru Fn. 8 am to 5 pm. FULLY FURNISHED. 9 MONTH LEASE, DAVE: Since you were born on April CJ love you ma~e · So whdt dtd you bnngGUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON Fool's Day,l guess that means you are The more things change, the more they back from break? 
HEAT. $335/MONTH 684-0933 (LOCAL just ajokel stay the same. Trust me 
CALL) Boo-Boo. LOVE. 
lfs all my fault

Been wattmg for your call. where are The Ph1ladetph1a K1d 
you? I miSS your beautiful votce To the g(;y from an underwater school: Tom Here's to an eaJiy birthday. Don't Quote-of-the-year-thus-far Men of Notre !Jame!!! 
FOUND: NOTRE DAME JACKET AT 

WANTED celebrate tao hard. Sorry I can't be there To my Amencan stud m london. I liked w1nter betler than spnng! ·-JC Prepare yourself tor the Killer Queen /romSTEPAN COURTS ON FEB 24/25. 
lor the wild party rdo they party in San I m1ss voul Road tnp to the w1ndy c1ty Sacramento! Momc• Spnng will be here 
·IDENTIFY COLOR AND SIZ~ AND IrS Diego?!. when you c0me home to PICk up the rest Happy 21 CAROLE, Tlmo to ravage. Which ol you are man enougnYOURS. CALL MIKE AT 277-2653 of the gang. and then 1t.s PARTY. PARTY. tor har? Look 10r ner during Utile Sib's 

"NEED RIDE TO CHGO AREA THIS FRI To Arw liappy 19th B1rthday (one day and PARTY !I! Thanks aga1n tor calling .. Your Honor weekena. HELP-I LOST MY SILVER BRACELET 1n FOR DEPAUL GAME. 1684or 1266/7 late). Best of luck 1n lhe next year. Keep1ng the past alive and plann1ng on an We present MAUREEN WATZ. a future the third floor gymnastics room at the even better future. noone could ever eq­NO lawyer! (Just th1nk. 2 lawyers 1n the Rock on fnday 3-4-83 afternoon RIDE NEEDED TO CLEV 3/25 SEAN Dear Gullible. d1d you know today IS real!~ qual you (Sorry I can't tvpe'Oh well) -­tamtlyJ Congrats on the acceptance, sts! Holy Cuadalcanal. Batman. what REWARD!! Call Anne at 2968 PLEASE!! C andD '10\N??!!!
~33·6031 your birthday? Your~ 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-~ 
The Observer Sports Extra-The Road to New York-Closed Tuesday, March 22, 1983 -page 9 
• • . Exit 
continuedfrom page 12 points in the first halt; the 6-2 senior But the events ofthe past week ­
shot only one-for-eight after and their effect on thi~ young team's which the NIT is utilizing this year halftime. Paxson tlnished with 1 7 contldence -may have a more for the first time. Their game is one points, but made just six of 18 from profound impact. of patience, but the presence·of the the floor -his worst shooting per­shot clock resulted in many hurried formance since a 5-for-16 effort IRISH ITEMS -Bill Varner shots, and the faster-paced action against Indiana Dec. 7. ended his Irish career with 18 points made Notre Dame a tired basketball to lead all scorers. The senior for­team -although Phelps later would Notre Dame, meanwhile, ended· ward shot 9-for-14, and also added dispute that point. its season 19-10, and although a first­four rebounds and four assists ... 
round NIT loss fell far short of his Tim Andree started at center, but 
But the telltale signs of fatigue original expectations, Phelps played just 12 minutes, scoring two were evident in the second half: one­remained philosophical. points. Karl Love did not play ... for-five foul shooting, 45 percent shooting from the floor and, most Freshmen Tim Kempton and Jim
"Compared to what we did last
especially, a 25-9 rebounding deficit Dolan each were hampered with 
year ( 10-1 7 ), we have nothing to be 
-11-2 on the offensive boards. foul trouble, and combined for only
ashamed about,'' he said. "We'll miss 
six points before both touling
our seniors -each of them made a
"The 30-second clock had no ef­out ... Four Northwestern players
significant contribution this year.
fect on our performance in the hit double ttgures, led by Aaron's 17
But our younger players had a good
second half," said Phelps. "The dif­points. Standout forward Jim Stack
lesson tonight, and hopefully they'll
ference was that they pounded the and guard MichaelJenkins added 16
learn from it." 

boards, and we didn't hit our shots." each, while center Andre Goode chipped in 10 ... A charged-up Northwestern coach Rich Falk felt Even though the future looks crowd of8,913 -about evenly split otherwise. bright for Notre Dame basketball, it between the two teams -made the will be difficult for the Irish to adjust game part of their St. Patrick's Day 
"The 30-second clock kept NO of the loss oftheir four seniors. activities. from going into their spread of­
.... fense," said Falk. "Then we got a ten­
Second-round games 
point lead, and went to the spread ourselves (in the last four minutes, when the shot clock was turned off). 

Patterson prayer ends NU's dream 
"I think fatigue set in for Paxson. We tried to deny him the ball in the ROSEMONT, Ill. (AP) -Kenny from Tyrone Corbin and let fly for halftime margin. 
But the Deacons pulled away, hit­second half, stay close to him until Patterson's 35-foot shot at the buzz­the winning basket. The victory The game remained close through 

ting 12 of 14 free throws in the final we got the upper hand." er last night capped a nine-point ral­sends the Blue Demons in the quar­the tlrst part ofthe second half, with 1:40. ly and led DePaul's Blue Demons to a terfinal round ofthe tournament. 
Nepraska leading 56-54 at 10:30. But Danny Young followed Rudd for For Paxson, the all-America guard, 65-63 victory over Northwestern in The shot capped an unbelievable 
the Huskers'were able to connect on Wake Forest with 18 points and it was a disappointing end to a bril­the second round ofthe National In­comeback as DePaul advanced with several free throws and expanded Teachey finished with 15. Senior liant career. After pumping in 14 vitational Tournament. a 19-11 record while Northwestern 
their lead throughout the remainder center Ted Young topped Vander­Patterson took the inbounds pass dropped out with a 1 7-13 mark. 
ofthe game. bilt with 19 points.

DePaul held a 52-49 lead when 
All five Nebraska starters scored _,.... Jim Stack tied it with a three-point in double ttgures. In addition to 01' Miss 65, S. Fla. 57
-3· --_,.,. play. Stack and Gaddis Rathel shot Cloudy, Claude Renfro had 16 OXFORD, Miss. (AP) -Carlos 
__,,..., 
Northwestern into a 59-52 lead and 
points, Dave Hoppen 15, David Clark scored 30 points to lead the 

then 63-54 before the stunning
-~ Ponce 11 and Greg Downing 10. Mississippi Rebels to a 65-57 victory-· comeback by DePaul. 
Steve Burtt led the Gaels with 22 last night over South Florida in the 

Stack led all scorers with 23 
points while Rory Grimes added 19 second round of the National Invita­

points. Corbin and Bernard Ran­
and Gary Springer had 10. tion Tournament. dolph finished with 1 7 each for The Rebels, 19-11, put together a 
DePaul and Patterson added 13. S. Carolina 75, VPI 68 
10-0 spurt midway that gave them a COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) -Virginia 21-11 lead. It demoralized South

TCU 78, Arizona St. 76 
Tech guard Dell Curry scored a Florida, which ended its season at TEMPE, Ariz. (AP) -Darrell 

game-high 27 points, but a balanced­22-10 and got no closer than six Browder scored 29 points and Doug 
scoring attack by South Carolina points in the second half. Arnold had 20 of his 26 in the 
resulted in a 75-68 victory in the The Rebels led 25-18 at halftime second half as Texas Christian Uni­
second round ofthe National Invita­and opened to a 42-26 lead on versity held on to beat Arizona Sfate 
tion Tournament last night. George Buckner's 12-foot jumper78-76 last night in a second-round 

South Carolina's Gamecocks, 22-with 12:01 remaining. game of the National Invitation 
8, took an early lead but fell behind When South Florida closed to 48­Tournament. 
briefly by seven points before center 42 with 7:34 remaining, MississippiBrowder, who poured in 23 ofhis 
Mike Brittain put them ahead for pulled back into a 12-point lead and 

points in the tlrst half, fouled out 
good, 37-35, with 38 seconds left in the Bulls got no closer until the final with 9:52 remaining in the game and 

the tlrst half. Kenny Holmes added a buzzer. the Horned Frogs ahead 60-59. 
jumper for a four-point halftime After Walt Stone's jumper put lead. Fresno St. 72, MSU 58 Arizona State up 68-67 with 5:50 
In the second half, South Carolina led 48-36 but had to hold off a late

left, Arnold scored six straight EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) ­points for a 73-68 lead. 
Ron Anderson and Desi BarmoreHokie challenge that cut the lead to 

The Sun Devils, kept in the game pumped in 16 points apiece to lead
six points with 1:04 left on the clock. throughout by the 33-point effort of Fresno State to a 72-58 basketball Byron Scott, closed to 77-76 victory over Michigan State last
on Brittain and forward Brad Jergen­Chris Beasley's basket with 2:19 to son night in the second round ofthe Na­
had 15 points each. Forwards 

go. tional Invitation Tournament.
Kenny Holmes added 13 points for But Beasley missed the front end The Spartans, with a 25-20
the Gamecocks, and Jimmy Foster 

of a one-and-one free throw situa­halftime edge, maintained the five­
chipped in 11. tion with 1 :49 remaining and Brian point lead throughout most of the
The only other Virginia Tech 

Christensen sank a crucial free second half, but the Bulldogs rallied
player scoring in double figures was throw with 46 seconds left for the to outscore Michigan State 8-2 and
forward Perry Young with 19. The 78-76 Texas Christian lead. grab a 53-52 lead.
Hokies ended their season 23-11. 

The win was the Horned Frogs' Fresno State's Omel Nieves hit a fifth in the their last six games as Wake 75, Vanderbilt 68 driving layup to score the go-ahead they improved their overall record basket with 3:4 7 remaining. Michi­
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) -Wake to 23-10. 
gan State, 1 7-1 3, hit only one ofnine

Forest guard Delaney Rudd scored The Sun Devils, losing for just the shots in the stretch.
15 of his game-high 21 points in the fourth time in the last 14 games, 
second half to rally the Demon 


Oregon St. 88, UNO 71

finished the season at 19-14 despite 
Deacons to a 75-68 National Invita­19 points from Paul Williams and 14 
tion Tournament victory over Van­CORVALLIS, Ore. (AP)-Oregon from Beasley. 
derbilt last night. State forward A.C. Green had 18 Trailing 36-27 with 19:00 points and the Beavers led all the


Nebraska 85, lona 73 
remaining, Wake Forest, 1 9-11, way last night to down New Orleans LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) -Stan 
went on a 21-3 tear to build a 50-39 88-71 and advance to the third Cloudy scored 24 points to lift 
advantage with 12 minutes left in round in the National Invitation Nebraska past !ona 85-73 in the 
the game. Included in the Deacons' Tournament. second round of the National Invita­
spurt was a 1 5-0 run keyed by five_ The Beavers, 20-l0, had five tion Tournament last night. 
points from Rudd, and four each players in double tlgures led by tor­Iona, 22-9, outrebounded 
from guard Danny Young and center ward A.C. Green with 18. The Nebraska 36-27, but 30 Gael tur­
Anthony Teachey. Privateers ended their season at 23­novers compared to 1 7 for the 
The Commodores, finishing at 19-7 and they were topped by forward Cornhuskers helped Nebraska, 21-9. 
14, scored seven straight points to Mark Petteway's 14. 

lona hit 15 of its first 20 field goal cut their detlcit to 50-46 with 10:22 Oregon State ran up the first eight attempts to take a 32-26lead, but the left and narrowed the Wake Forest points of the game, then ed 10-2 as Gaels missed their last four shots in lead to three points twice in the final forward Danny Evans hit on his first the half Nebraska took a 40-39 minutes. tlve shots, all from outside. 


The Observer Tuesday, March 22, 1983 page 10 
Outdoor season now begins .....,....., 
Maryltll''ld 
Tenn Chat 
Houston 
Geoi'Q!IOW" 
Geotyetown 
Aleotn St 
Memphis St


Track team returns from Florida ­
By DEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
While most students were sun­ning in Florida, the Notre Dame track ream was running in Florida. Coach Joe Piane migrated-south with five of his athletes to compete in the Florida State Relays in Tal­
lahassee.  In  the  1 00-team,  1500­ 
competitor  field,  the  Irish  
performers fared well.  

All-American Steve Dziabis led the way for Notre Dame, blazing to third place in the quarter-mile with a time of 47.59. Co-captain Jim Moyar, showing no ill effects from an injury earlier in the year, also performed very well, placing third in the 1500­meter run, a little more than a second ahead of teammate Jim Tyler, who had just barely missed going to the NCAA meet. 

The other runners who traveled to the meet were junior Dan Walsh who came in fourth in the 5000­meter run, and John McCloughan who failed to advance to the finals in whe high hurdles. 
The Florida State Relays com­pleted the Notre Dame indoor season. Now the Irish thoughts turn to the outdoors and the South Bend spring. 
"We'll just have to play it by ear." 
That is all Piane can say about the possibility of opening the outdoor season this Saturday with the Notre Dame Invitational. Unless whether conditions improve, the meet will probably not be held. 
No matter what happens about the present whether conditions, however, Pi:me expects the outdoor season to be just as successful as the indoor season. 
"Again our strengths will be the distance and middle-distance events," he explains. 
The only chance to catch the Irish outdoors at home this season is this Saturday at the Invitational and April 9th when Notre Dame hosts the Midwest Catholic Championships. Some of the other highlights of the schedule include the Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa, the IC4As in Villanova, Pa., and the NCAA's in the first week in June. 

COLUMBIA SI1Y 
.. 
in the City of NewYork 


II:! 

.... 
The Summer Session of Columbia University offers students the opportunity to study at the most distin­guished educational institution in America's most cosmopolitan city. The challenging curriculum, outstanding faculty, excellent research facilities, and New York City itself combine to stimulate the individual and suppon the student's program of study. Day and evening graduate and undergraduate courses for academic credit will be given by more than forty arts and sciences depanments and professional schools. Arnoflg these are: 
. ··---­

Languages. Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Greek, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Russian, Spanish, and Yid­dish. 
------------------------------------··------­
Focus on Design. An introduction to the profession of architecture for those considering a career in architec­ture and those generally interested in the field. 
Pre-Medical CouiSeS. Biology; general, organic, and physical chemistry; physics. 
Study Abroad Programs. French language and an history in Paris; Italian language and an history in Florence. 
Additional CouiSeS. Students may choose from courses in a variety of areas including anthropology, architec­ture and planning, an history, astronomy, biochemistry, computer science, economics, engineering, English and comparative literature, film, geography, history, international affairs, journalism, linguistics, mathe­matics, music, philosophy, physiology, political science, psychology, public health, religion, social work, soci­ology, speech, statistics, theatre arts, and creative writing.· 
The summer student body is a select group of motivated men and women, three-quaners of whom attend 
... 
Columbia during the .academic year. College and university students are encouraged to apply for admission. Columbia's 32-acre Manhattan setting is one of America's most handsome urban campuses. All the resources of the University are at the disposal of summer students, including the extensive library collection, computer resources, recreational facilities, social and cultural activities, and residence halls. 
First Session: May 23 -July l. Second Session: July 11 -August 19, plus special three-, eight-, and ten-week sessions. 
Send 1983 Summer Session bulletin and application to address below. 
I am especially interested in 
Mr./Ms. 
Address 

City State Zip______ 
Send to: Summer Session, 303 Lewisohn Hall, Columbia University, New York, N.Y. 10027 
SUMMER SESSION 1983 
8 
........ '""'~ 
VIllanOva 
lowo 
Utllh St "'*" 
...""""' 
Tenoe!~.see 
lttnnes.sec:! 
Mllrquene 
lou•svlllofo 
I 
p,.dut" 
"'""" 
Robet't Moms 
"'"""....
-.no.~ sr 
"""'u
()hooU 
K@'nlucky 
Qldahoma 
Ol<lahoma 
Ala a.m 
Wash Sl 
Wash 51 
We~St 

NCAA Tourney 
Led ZeppUn 
t..EO 7.EppEUN 
"2" 
Doobles 
"Best Of''

tfWgJ~ 


Ms. Pac Man'Mand Phoenix'Mand


uLnEo 
Swordquest Fireworld'M IU Vanguard'M 


$27 .9Sea. uf'lmES$23.95ea. 
Reg. $32.95 All Games for the Atari 2600 system only. Reg. $27.95 

Albuquerque draws closer as the highly-rated teams begin to face each other in head-to-head com­petition. Action resumes on Thursday . 
(Fleetwood Mac] 

( "Bac~~~DB~ack" ] Eddie Rabbit ----,[ 
_ "Horizon.. ...J 

L"Gre~e0s~"Hits" 1 
C11rs ][ 
~Candy-0" 
( Pretenders ] 
Foreigner "4" 



ScotcH 
BRA NO 
VHS T-120 *Beta L-750 $9.99EA. $2.00 
FINAL 
COST 
99 
EACH 
--· 

?o1NTM"srei=\. 
$13.95 ~~,:~~95 s25.oo 81 
Less $2.00 
Rebate 
Final 
Cost 
$23.00 per pair 





CAMEIOTfJMUSIC 
IS MUSIC AND MORE! 

UNIVERSilY PARK MALL Album And Tape Prices Good Thru April lOth, Other Items March 31st. 
~---~-~ -----~--~---~---------­
,.............------------~ -~-~----·-~ 
Ihe~r======================================== 

~~4(Jl~~===========================T=u=-e=sd=a=y='=M=a=rc=h=2=2='=1=98=3===p=a=~g=e=l=l 
Bloom County 

NO•.. GO AWAY. ()1, BUT/HIS ON€.'5 MI/..O...OH GAP, GOT W£1?Y111/N6, 
WE'Ve e:mw B055 ... WOKl 

5TDP. .. NO ABSTRIIGT REf(.£(; MOR£ BAP 1!0N5 ON Il-l£ PICTUPES ... POWN10WN 

Simon 
LOills, YOU 13CTTER (OMe IN M1W yOU'LL CflTOI fWEU!10Nf/f. 



Fate 



{. ..(... ..Urn£ 
GIRU ... Feel/IN& A 5QUIRRa. 



SHt: DIDN'T RESPOND. 
I 
Berke Breathed Campus 



•12:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "The Feasibility of Workplace: Democracy in the U.S.," Prof. Ronald 

M. 
Mason, 509 Library 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Reduced Integration PenaJty Methods (or Stokesian Flows," Dr. ). Tinsley Oden, 211 Cushing Hall 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Substrate Limitation of Microvial Growth," Dr. Fredric G. Bader, 356 Fitzpatrick 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Syncretism and Mes­sianism in the Hellenistic Age to the Time of Augustus," Dr. George). Szemler, Library Lounge 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m.-Film, "Clockwork 


Orange," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Pro Musica, Sl
Jeb Cashin 
•8 
p.m.-Lecture, "Man," Prof. Paul Weiss, teE 

•8:15 
p.m.-Spring Concert of the Notre Dame Concert Band, ACC 

•10 
p.m. -Call-in Talk Show, Speaking of Sports, Will Hare, WSND-AM 64 





T.V. Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16, M*A*S*H 22 Laverne & Shirley 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
7:30 16 Allin The Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough

Photius 
34 Straight Talk 
8:00p.m. 16 TheA Team 22 Ace Crawford Private Eye 28 Happy Days 34 Frontline 
8:30p.m. 22 Gun Shy 28 Laverne and Shirley 9:00p.m. 16 Bare Essence 22 CBS Tuesday Night Movie: "The 

~ 
Other Woman," 28 Three's Company 34 Great Performances 
10:00 p.m. 16 St. Elsewhere 28 Hart to Hart 
11p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
The Far Side 



,l/0 Fl1TileR. tr'f> OFFJ(l/lllY ~f{fJN6, 1/fUO I'M GOING 76 711/fOW !1V FR~BF£. 


ACROSS 46 Small drink 3 Pegasus, 33 Kind of 
1 Jape 48 Woolly for one horse or 5 Spasmodic 50 Greek 4 Three-way hand 
laryngitis letters pipe joint 34 Speculation 10 Ziegfeld 54 Stretched, 5 Opt writer 13 Comedian as one's 6 Certain 36 Away from 
Johnson neck horse home, in 
14 Stallion 56 Carmain· 7 Lawand-Scotland 15 Vicinity tenance 8 Custom 39 Dire 16 Drink job, for 9 Green gems 40 "Auntie-" 
cadger short 42 Hopstem
10 Memberof

18 Smell 58 Bow 43 Small 
a secret 

19 Antagonist 59 Layers theater 
order

20 Top-drawer role 21 Buries 
11 Villain's 45 Parsonage60 Corsair trademark 47 Highw
23 Birch trees 63 Fairy tale 
12 Dumbarton-49 Vote into beginning
25 Buy back 15 Russian office27 Stew 64 Remus or CO·Op29 Bottoms Sam 17 Actor 51 Panama Ia32 L 65 Finnish Storch 52 Gladiator's35 Companion poem 22 Radio milieuof hollers 66 Trouble report 53 Ship's
67 Manana propeller 37 Litigate maybe? 54 Military 38 Makes a 68 Eat like a 24 Newts food 
mistake rabbit 26 Ran off 55 Separation 39 Globules to marry center 40 Vogue DOWN 28 Push 57 Ubangi 41 Digit 1 Palestine 30 Unclothed tributary 42 Beast district 31 Property 61 Genetic 
43 Whipped 2 Flynn, of document letters "I've got it again, Larry ... an eerie feeling like 44 Foes films 32 Party 62 Setup: abbr. there's something on top of the bed." 
FEATURING 


a CHANCE to DANCE 

D 

in the CHAUTAUQUA LaFortune BallroomArJj::')(FridayMarch25 9:30-1:30 
VU \ 
\ Door prizes & refreshments I \ ND/SMC I.D. required 
$1 
"' 

Tuesday, March 22, 1983 -page 12





Snorts 

On St. Patrick's Day 
'Cats hand Irish abrupt NIT exit 
By CHRIS NEEDLES west Louisiana and Marquette -to its pre-February habit of 
SportsEditorEmeritus 

even though Notre Dame had surrendering early leads. The Irish beaten Marquette in January, and led by as much as eight points mid­ROSEMONT, Ill. -The dream 
even though Southwest had lost by way through the first half, and still began a week ago last Thursday. 
21 points to Marquette in its only held a five-point advantage ( 40-35)Notre Dame had just blitzed 
true test of the season. with just under 14 minutes left in Northern Iowa in an emotional "We're obviously disappointed the game.
home finale for its seniors, and now 

not to go to the NCAA," Digger But Art Aaron's 19-foot jumper ­each senior -Karl Love, Tim 
Phelps had said on the morning af­his first ofthree long-range bombs in Andree, Bill Varner and, finally, john 
ter. "But the selection committee a row after a one-for-six first half -Paxson -took the public address has a tough decision to make, and I began a 10-minute, 26-7 Wildcat microphone for a final message to 
respect that. spurt that turned the game com­the 11,345 faithful. 
"We're looking forward to the pletely around and gave Northwes­"It's been a great four years, and 
NIT. It has a lot of prestige and tern a comfortable 61-47 lead with it's all because of you," Paxson said flavor, and through the years it has 4:20 remaining. The Irish, who had 
to the crowd. 

always survived. We're proud to be come back from a large deficit here "But we're not 
going." 19 days ear:ier to tie DePaul, could done yet. We'll 
But the Irish never were able to come no closer than 10 points the see you in the 
.recover from the committee's kick rest of the way.NCAA's." in the teeth. "They're a talented team, and they
One week 

On the other hand, Northwestern, have a lot of heart," Phelps said of later, its NCAA which finished seventh in the Big Northwestern. "They represent the title dreams dashed by an uncom-
Ten this year, had pretty much Big Ten well. When Aaron got hot, promising tournament committee, 
geared its entire season toward that was the key to the game. We Notre Dame's season came to an 
gaining an NIT bid. And once the were never able to recover." abrupt end following a 71-57loss to 
Wildcats shook off the rustiness The Irish abo were not able to ad­
Northwestern in the opening round 

from their just-completed final ex­just to the 30-second shot clock,of the National Invitational Tourna­
ams, they were unstoppable. 

ment at The Rosemont Horizon. Notre Dame, meanwhile, reverted see EXIT, page 9 On St. Patrick's Day, no less. Even though the Irish came out 
strong and held a 32-28 halftime lead against the Wildcats, one could 


Baseball team returns 
safely say that this game was lost five days earlier -onSunday, March 13. That was when the nine-man 


after dismal road trip
NCAA tournament committee ­
Creighton and Oral Roberts on Sun­

which ironically includes Notre By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
day, March 13. 

Tim Kempton (41) guards Northwestern'sjim Stack (25) in last Dame Athletic Director Gene Cor­Sports Writer 
First baseman Carl Vuono drove

week's NIT loss at The RosemontHorizon. Stack hurt the Irish with rigan -passed over the Irish when 
two with a

16 points on 8-of-1 1 shooting. NU, however, fell last !flight to selecting its 52-team field. Instead, it For the third year in a row, the in runs bases-loaded 
single in the four-run-third-inning

DePaul, 65-63. opted to take independents South-Notre Dame baseball team opened its season with a dismal spring tour. 
against Creighton. Catcher Phil 

.----------------------------------------------------------------------After starting out with an 0-7-l Dingle followed Vuono with a 
double that drove in two more runs team returned from its spring break 
record in 1981, and 2-6 last year, the for the Irish. Notre Dame, however, lost its 5-2 lead in the bottom of the sixth (in a seven-inning game) when


Now, women sing tourney blues 
tour through the southwest this year 
with a 3-8 mark. Creighton scored four runs for the
Two of the losses were at the 6-5 victory. 
hands of the nation's No. 2 ranked In the nightcap, Oral Roherts So you think Digger Phelps had a tough Spring Break? 
team, Oral Roberts, while a third simply proved to be too much in its If Eli Lilly's stock went up in the last two weeks, it's Michael Riccardi came to perennial Southwestprobably because of the number of college basketball 

Sports Editor 
I 2-3 triumph. Centerfielder Steve
powerhouse, Arkansas. "Removing the 'ifs,' we could Passinault and catcher Mike Doming coaches downing Maalox while the NCAA and National 

Invitational Tournament selection committees filled have easily gone 6-5 over the break 
had solo-homers for the Irish while atheir respective fields. 
third catcher, David Clark, doubled
which would have made it a very in the other Irish run. 
For some, the upset was too much to take -you 
good trip," states Head Coach Larry The next day was the worst for .could have launched a ship in the sea ofprinter's ink the 
Gallo. "While we are a young team, Notre Dame ofthe week, as losses toChicago papers needed to air the grievances of Loyola's "Ifthere were three or four more bids (to the NCAA), our mistakes were not really so Kansas State, 9-0, and Oral Roberts, Gene Sullivan, a man who has never taken being over­they'd be a shoo-in," says Greenberg. 

much from the lack of game ex­Notre Dame beat Indiana, the Big Ten champion and perience as they were from mental 8-0, were reflective of the .188 team looked lightly. For others, last week was a lesson in 
humility. When Dayton was passed over by both the 

Illinois State, winners of the Gateway Conference. Also errors. Those are just the things we batting average over break. The Irish
NIT and NCAA's for the second straight year, despite on NO's ledger is a victory over Miami, regular-season have to work on and put in the past." were the victim ofa no-hitter against
,.closing their season with a nine-point win at DePaul, winners of the Mid-American Conference. While their But sometimes remembering the Oral Roberts and got only four hits
Flyer coach Mickey Donoher just suffered quietly. blowout losses to Top 20 foes Louisiana Tech, UCLA, past can be beneficial. Gallo doesn't against Kansas State. 
Next to Sullivan and Donoher, Digger could have Arizona State and Maryland kept them out ofthe NCAA A two-run home-run. by Captain
counted his blessings. At least his team had a post­want to overlook the way his team's draw, teams oflesser quality were allowed into the NIT of the past two years have Rick Chryst helped Notre Dame take 
season, however short. But while the first weekend of Break was hard on men's coaches bypassed by the om­

draw. rebounded from the poor starts. The a 3-0 lead into the sixth inning against Kansas State the next day.
1981 team went 23-9 after the slownipotent selection committees, consider the plight of The women's NIT field seems to raise quite a few But as Creighton did, so too did thestart, while last year's squad was 26­the women's basketball coaches. 

questions. Going to Amarillo last weekend were Wildcats rally in the sixth inning
Last year, when the NCAA decided to conduct nation­9.
Temple, Weber State, Texas Tech, Oral Roberts, New with five runs to win by a 5-3 margin. 
"We have 43 games left," notesal championships in women's sports, critics scoffed at Orleans, Oregon State, Hawaii, and Southern Illinois. 

The Irish picked up their first win
Gallo "and depending upon how
the 32-team women's basketball field. They claimed Southern Illinois? The Salukis were the third-place team 

the next day in the second game ofa
hard this team is willing to work, itthat there were not 32 good teams in the country. The in the Gateway Conference that Illinois State won. 

doubleheader against St. Mary of the
can also be successful. The thing Plains. Brad Cross went the distance critics have been proven wrong -as this year's tourna­

ment selection process would seem to indicate. And some teams, most notably Louisiana State, which they have to realize is that they 
on the mound for Notre Dame in the

finished second in the Southeastern Conference, which won't undo the mistakes from the 
"There's just not enough bids out there for the num­first game as he struck out five,
sends three teams to the Mideast Regional here this break overnight."
ber of quality teams that deserve to go," says The walked one and gave up only seven
weekend, have arguments at least as good as Notre The team opened up its one-
Philadelphia Inquirer's Mel Greenberg. "A lot ofteams 

Dame's. week-11-game trek against see TRIP, page 8 

are going to feel that they were shafted." Another question was raised by the fact that Athletic
• And amazingly, just like the men's version, the Na­Director Gene Corrigan had reportedly received a calltional Women's Invitational Tournament, left out a lot from the NIT organizers extending a bid to the Irish.
ofdeserving clubs. 

Was the bid retracted, or never extended in the first 
Among the teams left out was Notre Dame. The night place? If this is the way the tournament is run, is it that the bids came out -March 12, the first Saturday of legitimately a "National invitational Tournament?" break, was a nightmare for Coach Mary DiStanislao and 
It seems as though the eight teams that made theher team. 
women's NIT were picked in random. Certainly the "It's very disappointing to have your season end so 
teams in last week's tourney were not necessarily the abruptly," said DiStanislao. "When you're coming off a 
eight best teams left out ofthe NCAA draw. high like the Indiana game, not getting into a tourna­ment is a real kick in the head. And I think we were Ofcourse, the more the women's game becomes like better than a lot of the teams that were going." 
the men's, the more of the same problems it takes on ­like having to leave some good teams out ofits national But were the Irish women among the top 44 teams in championship draw. the country? 
But if the proponents of this sport ever want to see it Even skeptics of Midwest women's basketball, and go big time, with the TV lights and crowds just like the 'I'· DiStanislao's critics admit that Notre Dame is at least a men, they can't allow amateurs to make a sham of what 
Top·40 club. should be a true consolation prize. 
Mary D.'s team toasts year 
It seems tobe a common thing to formalize most sports banquets, 
utilizing a series of prepared speeches and award presentations to 
keep the proceedings to a certain time limit. These banquets are nice 
events, but leave a bit ofan impersonal taste. 
Notre Dame women's basketball coach Mary DiStanislao wanted 
to avoid the avoid the formality, however, as she turned the first 
women's basketball banquet into a big Italian dinner last night at 
Francesco's Restaurant. 
In an effort to turn the banquet into a "family" get-together, DiS­
tanislao decided to forego the formal speeches and presentations. 
Instead, there were a couple of informal words from DiStanislao, 
Athletic Director Gene Corrigan, and seniors Debbi Hensley and 
Shari Matvey. 
The common subject was the lack ofa tournament bid, but rather 
than dwell on the snubbing, the speakers treated it as something that 
did not ruin an otherwise successful 20-7 season. 



