I I I 
Irish Gardens -page 3 

VOL. XVII, NO. 81 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1983 

Lines stretched past LaFortune yesterday as students waited out­side Washington Hal/to obtain tickets for the Keenan Revue. The annual variety show will be held at O'Laughlin Auditorium this Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at 8 p.m. 
Grads offer services in Holy Cross program 
By SONYA STINSON income families and assisting them 
Senior StaffReporter in making their homes more energy 
The domestic program of the efficient. 
Holy Cross Associates offers Her job is coordinating the work 
graduating students an alternative crews. The task involves doing 
to immediate introduction into the paper work, one of its few connec­
business world. tiom to her business background. 
Last year at this time, five Notre Housemate. Stacy Watson is a 
Dame and Saint :\1ary's students fourth grade teacher in an inner­
were looking for such an alter-city parochial school in Oakland. 
nati\·e. They chose the HCA pro-Most of her pupils are low-income, 
gram, and have no regrets about non-Catholics in a school which is 
the choice they made. 96 percent black. 
Fran Cackley, Mike Frawley, "I asked to be a teacher because I 
Chris Gorka, Linda Hewitt and want;d an opportunity to do 
Stacy Watson, are living and work-something I wouldn't have the 
ing together in Hayward, ·ca. as a chance to do otherwise," said Wat­
comrnunity, along with forri1er son, who plans to go to law school 
University of Portland student next year. "It's uplifting for me to 
Regina Wilson. work with children -trying to 
Each receives a stipend of about understand their condition, trying $4500, which they pool into a com-to find out what education means, mon budget to pay for living ex-and learning from them. penses. After a modest allowance . "I think that every person should for personal expenses, any remain-go back and thank his or her grade ing funds go back to HCA to help school teacher," she continued, pay for its various programs. "because now I realize what it 
Linda Hewitt, who graduated means to have to smile all the time, from Saint Mary's last May with a to be always creative and degree in International Business, understanding. It is really a strug­did not want to plunge into the gle to make teaching a vocation and nine-to-five job for which her not just a job." studies had prepared her. Before beginning their work, 
"The work I do is not a Hewitt, Watson and the others par­business," she commented. "You ticipated in a one-week orientation just give of yourself without any at-last August, during which they tention to what you get back in were prepared for working in HCA return." communities and for the style of 
In the beginning, Hewitt's job in-"simple living" which is the volved matching tutors with organization's theme. students in the Family Tutorial Placement of volunteers in th\ Program. Because many of the various services is made in the spr­students were Hispanic, her tluency ing and is geared as much as possi­in Spanish, acquired during her ble to the interests of the ap­sophomore year in Mexico, plicants, Administrative Assistant facilitated her placement in the pro-Charles Geoffrion said. gram. In addition to the Hayward com-
When that program suffered munity, HCA also has volunteers funding cutbacks, Hewitt began in Portland, Or. and Colorado Spr­working with a service helping to ings, Co. A fourth program, in pay the gas and electric bills of low-See SERVICE, page 4 
FLOC vs. Campbell's 

Debate on boycott scheduled 
By JOHN BURCHETT FLOC, decided to have a re-vote on ly passing the referendum, but also Campus Campaign Reporter the issue to let the present students to educate the Notre Dame com­decide if the boycott is to be con­munity about the issues involved. 
For the first time in the 14-year tinued. Since August of 1978, over 2,000 old conflict between the Campbell The referendum reads, "Should farmworkers under the leadership Soup Company and the Farm the University of Notre Dame con­
of FLOC have been on strike in the 
Labor Organizing Committee, tinue the FLOC boycott of the tomato fields contracted to Camp­there will be a debate between the Campbell Soup Company until the bell's and Libby. The migrant two sides, to be held next Monday two parties can reach an agreement workers, the only workers in the evening at 6:15 in the Library or a mutually agreed upon third country not covered by the Na­Auditorium. The debate will be party can reach a solution to this tional Labor Relations Act, are between a represenative of dispute." Only. Campbell's is in­basically demanding to be included Campbell's and Baldemar Valas­cluded in this vote because all in the contract discussions, which quez, the president of FLOC. Libby's products are currently are presently restricted to the pro­The devbate is an event to be held covered by the Nestle's boycott. 
cessors and the growers. The in preparation for the Feb. 8 cam­workers claim that the contracts 
pus-wide referendum that will 
Campbell's and Libby's now have decide whether Notre Dame will Campus , with the farmers to pay the migrant 
continue its boycott of all Camp­a decent wage. The strike and 
* Campaign '83
bell's products. 
boycott are intended to force the 
The Boycott is in reponse to 
canneries to take some responsibili­allagations by FLOC of unfair There was a meeting last night of ty for the plight of the migrantlabor practices against migrant the Notre Dame FLOC support 
workers. Other demands of FLOC tomato pickers caused by Camp­group intended to mobilize and include wage increases and better bell's. organize campus supporters for the housing. FLOC estimates that 
In 1980, the student body of upcoming campaign to pass the wages average only $1.96 an hour,Notre Dame voted in favor of a referendum. Representatives were and they claim the housing for referendum to support the FLOC chosen from each dorm to help 
migrant families often consists only boycott against all Campbell's and educate students on the issues in­of one room plywood shacks, with Libby's products. In response to volved. In addition, Campus no plumbing and pesticide con­
this vote, official university policy Ministry has sent letters to every taminated water supplies. has been to honor the boycott. hall urging the rectors to incor­
Another major concern of Because of the turnover of students porate this issue in their weekend FLOCis to help alleviate the at the university since the initial liturgies. 
necessity of migrant familyvote, a university boycott review The FLOC support group is con­
children to work so the family can committee with the support of fident that it can succeed in not on-earn subsistence money. 

In recently published book 
Burtchaell discusses abortion 
Editor's Note: This is the second of sion on the issue of whether the abort is to destroy one's son or a two-part series dealing with the mother had control of her own daughter." tenth anniversary of the Supreme body. The problem that vexes many 
Court's Roe v. Wade decision In Rachel Weeping, Burtchaell Catholics today is how far the legalizing abortion. writes, "Women should have con­Church should go in opposing trol over their own bodies, it is what is now the law of the land, ByJOHNCOEN said, and I agree; but not life and and how it should attempt to News Staff death control over the bodies of change it. This is the issue that has their children." spawned the pro-life movements. "Abortion, then -the willful 
While the Court addressed the In an interview published lastand violent killing of an unborn legal sid eof the subject, the Church Friday in the Catholic Telegraph,human being -is homicide." 
has a long history of being concern­the newspaper of the ArchdiocesePeriod. 
ed with the moral romponent of the of Cincinnati, Burtchaell says,Father James T. Burtchaell issue. As Burtchaell said in Rachel "The Chuch's main contribution towrites this in his recently published Weeping, "But back to the point, the pro-life movement would be tobook dealing with the subject 
the chief point, the much-avoided 
See ABORTION, page 4 
Rachel Weeping and Other Essays 
point, the only point at issue: to 
on Abortion. 
In the eyes of the Catholic Chur­ch, there is no basis for an argu­ment on the issue. Preparing or 



Pope john Paul II 
cooperating in the performing of an abortion is a violation of Canon Law, and the person involved is 
revises canon law
subject to excommunication, accor­ding to Father John Lehey, a VATICAN CITY (AP) -Pope . Castillo Lara of Venezuela.
Canon Law doctoral candidate at John Paul II signs and pro­The 1917 code had 2,414the Catholic University of 
mulgates a revised code of canons.
America. 
canon law today that will affect The Rev. Raymond L. Burke, aDirectives on this subject date the life of every Roman Catholic U.S. canon law expert, said the
back to the time of Popes Sixtus V from birth to death. revised code "draws together
and Gregory XIV in the late 16th The document, the first overall practical reflections of the life of
century. revision of the Church's legal the Church." He said the code is
The position taken by the Church code in 66 years, is 25 percent not an entirely new set of regula­
is not something hastily thrown shorter and simpler; it stresses tions but rather a compilation oftogether in response to the Supreme policy flexibility for local the innovations and changesCourt decision in the famous Roe bishops. already put into practice in recentv. Wade case. Recent events have 
Vatican sources say the Pope years.
only "smoked out a lot of public 
reviewed each I, 780 
statements" on the subject of abor­one of the In a notable exception to this, 
separate canons, or laws, drafted however, it repeals the simplifiedtion, Burtchaell said in an interview by a commission of 74 experts marriage annulment process in ef­yesterday. 
over the 17-year period following fect in the United States andIn its decision the Court did not the Second Vatican Council 1962-Australia since 1970 andaddress tt.e humanity of the fetus, 65. Experts say they think the reinstates the requirement that all rather it stated that "the word 'per­pontiff made few changes in the annulments by a marriage courtson,' as used in the 14th amend­work of the commission, which must be reviewed by an appealsment, does not include the un­
was headed by Rosario Jose panel.
born." The Court based its deci­


' 

ews Brie/§ 
By The Ohsen•er and The Associated Press 
. A. .l,llemorial Mass for Michelle and Rita Murphy, wtw died in a car accident while returning from Christmas Break, wtllbe held wday' at Sacred Heart Church at 5 p.m. University Presid,"1t Fathel"{heodore Hesburgh will celebrate the Mass and Father Gene Go~S,.R,i will deliver the homily. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's 'Students interested in running for any student government position should attend the informational meeting tonight at 9 in the Student Affairs Conference Room in LeMans Hall. Students interested in the positions of student body president, vice-president, class or hail officers, or board of gover­nance commissioners must atte)1d. For more information, contact Monica Gugle. -The Observer 
Phi Kappa Sigma fraternity at Purdue University has been disciplined by the Dean of Students office for hol<~ing a beer party. Stephen Akers, associate dean of students, said the frater­nity was being "deactivated" or barred from participation in cam­pus activities through August. Any failure in that perioQ to comp­ly with university regulations could result in Phi Kappa Sigma los­ing university recognition as a social fraternity, Akers said. He said the fraternity sent out flyers to various soroities, impling an open invitation to a party at the house on Jan. 15, resulting in a violation of the university's recommended 3: 1 ratio of guest to members at fraternity parties. The fraternity was involved in an "improper exchange of money" for beer at the party. Beer drinkers were reportedly asked to pay $1 for a plastic cup. John Hudson, fraternity president, claimed the money was being ac­cepted as donations to the "Roger B. Chaffee Scholarship Fund." Chaffee, one of the Purdue-educated astronauts, had been a member of the fraternity. He, fellow Hoosier Virgil "Gus" Grissom and Edward White II were killed Jan. 27, 1967, ina fire in a module while training as the crew for the first Apollo space flight. -AP 
The Notre Dame Student Government is 
sponsoring a student exchange with Saint Michael's Campus at the University of Toronto. Notre Dame will be hosting Toronto students the weekend of Feb. 3-6 and Notre Dame students will be visiting theToronto campus Feb. 24-27. Each Notre Dame stu­dent will host a Toronto student during the exchange. In return, that studenytstudent will be hosted by his Toronto partner during the visit to Toronto at the end of February. The activities planned for the Toronto visitors include a reception, classroom visits, and a trip to Chicago on Saturday. Students may sign up for the ex­change starting Tuesday, Jan. 25 at the Student Government of­fices on the second floor of LaFortune. The number of par­ticipants will be determined at that time. The cost of the trip will be $45. This includes round trip transportation and accomoda­tions. A non-refundable deposit of $25 must be made at the time of the sign-up, with the remaining balance due on Feb. 16. -The Observer 
Cloudy today with 20 percent chance of snow. High in the upper 20s. Cloudy tonight and tomorrow with 30 percent chance of snow. Low tonight around 20. High tomorrow in the mid20s.-AP 
Tuesday, January 25, 1983 -page 2 

Ten years after COUP 

In the Soviet Union, every five years the mysterious 
Central Planner issues an aptly named "Five Year 
Plan." It is an occasion for optimistic predictions of 
prosperity for the comrades. Five years later, the fail­
ed quotas of the "Five Year Plan" are officially 
forgotten and a gleeful new plan is produced. 
Notre Dame has its own variation on the Soviet system. Roughly every ten years or so, an all­encompassing report on every facet and nuance of the University is compiled. The latest one is the highly touted, inconsequential PACE report. Ten years ago, however, it was the COUP' (Committee on University Priorities( report. It was c:ompiled by a group of ad­ministrators, faculty members, and students. Their challenge was to chart a policy that would take the school into the eighties. 
At the time, the University was financially weak. Since then, largely because of the recommendations by COUP, the endowment has been infused with hun­dreds of millions, most of which came from the ubi­quitous "Campaign for Notre Dame." 
JC, CAlii•AI 
~~~s£.(/E( 

·. ·. ) 
~I l(tUoN )(J{f'Vf EJIII/li5T£/J OL/J MINT 
After the heady days of liberalism in the late sixties and early seventies, the authors of the report voiced concern for the colleges of Engineering and Science. Their worries have proved to be unwarranted since 

students  have  largely  returned  to  
potentially-profitable  career  pursuits.  And,  
although  women  had  just  been  admitted  to  the  
University,  the report showed  concern  that  female  

alums historically contribute less than males. The on­ly female member of the committee was Sister Madon­na Kolbenschlag. She was later denied tenure. 

The report stressed the need for increased minority enrollment. This was something that its author, and then Provost, Father James T. Burtchaell was cham­pioning to the consternation of many alums. Ten years later the minority population has shown little 
change. 
The Observer 
"Where is Hesburgh?" 
Design Editor Tom "I'm at N.D." Small Design Assistant ... Tom "I'm at N.D., too"Sapp News Editor . ... Kathleen "in-cognito" 
·D o y I e 
Copy Editor . Dan on "the planet of the 
Hesburghs" May 
Sports Copy EditorMike "in the state<''· 
confusion" Sullivan 
Typists. Joe "I'm in Vienna" Musu.neco 
Maura "in Wonderland" Murpl.y 
John "in-terested" McCarthy 
Tom "in Wanderlust" MacLennan 
ND Day Editor . ......... Jane Panfil 
Ad Design . . . . . . . .... Jeannie Euch 
Photographer ..... , Lucian Niemeyer 
StaffArtist .... , . , ..... Laurie Grin Guest Appearances ..... Riccardi, ver B e k m o e Dzave "in Rabbit's hutch" Dziedzic, Skip, Sarah, Tom Mowle, Tim Neely 

Vo. you eike m. be wifk ~? 
v~bOlt t~te KeW. P~ Vi3iftlfitm "P'UUJ'WKt at St. ~epk ~: CeKfe'l 
we£ VUe 3242 by 9cm. 29 


Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Managing Editor 
Inside Tuesday 
Parts of the report are still relevant. Hall over­
crowding and a lack of social space are mentioned as 
problems. These problems still exist. The report 
recommends Exploration ofspecific ways of enhanc­
ing the intellectual role of the rector. The success of 
this scheme is debateable. 
COUP also explained the necessity of top-notch 
graduate programs. They attract high quality faculty 
and are the true centers of learning at a University. 
Yet last week, The New York Times reported on a 

survey of the top graduate schools in 33 fields. Notre 
Dame was mentioned only once, for Chemical 

Engineering. 
Coup bluntly stated the sorry condition of the 

library and called for marked increase in expen­
ditures. Like trashy Barbara Cartland novels, this 
complaint keeps recurring. The library still has an in­
ferior national ranking. And improvement plans are 
still circulating. 
In one area, COUP missed the mark. It questions 

the cultural, and educational value of the then money­
losing WNDU stations. Things have changed. The 
stations are now based in a fine new building, paid for 
from the profit~ generated by limiting the cultural 
contribution to profitable M*A*S* H reruns. 
However the educational aspects have been exploited 
to the benefit of numerous students and interns. 
One portion of the report obviously was left out of the copies distributed to the powers that be. "Open ar­chitectual competition might ensure the involvement of the widest range of architectual talents the country has to offer." "There are qualified persons on our campus who would gladly give their advice and use their talents to help the University in finding economical solution to its prati.::al problems of buildings and grounds." It is ironic that in the same issue of Notre Dame Magazine which printed these two statements, was a news blurb about the then just­completed renovation of the Law School -designed by, you guessed it, Ellerbe Architects. 
For the most part though, the COUP report had a remarkable effect. Several of the key goals mentioned in the report have been met. Expanded chemical research and engineering facilities, an enlarged art gallery, a fine arts facility, and a faculty office building, are all almost, if not already, completed. It has been said the COUP report primed the University to take off as a first-class institution. The question now is, will the new PACE report ignite the rocket or leave us on the pad? The Observer will be looking into this question in the weeks ahead. 


Editorial Board Departntent Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief. ............................. Michael Monk Business Manager ........ ...................Tony Aiello 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller ....................... .....................Eric Schulz 
versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMC Executivt;.Editor ............ Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a 
Sports Editor...................,_...............Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto 
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ............................. Paul McGinn Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley 
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ..................... joseph Musumeci
a11d the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) 239·5303 
.. 

The Observer Tuesday, January25, 1983 -page 3 
Irish Gardens successful 

Excess in budget discussed 
By TOM MOWLE deposit is required to reserve a change would pay for storage or StaffReporter place on the bus. The rest of the $45 would pay for storage in town over total cost is due by Feb. 16. There summer. The Student Union spent less are 43 seats availble on a first-come 
A Hall Presidents' Council 
than $20,000 of its $96,700 annual first-seerved basis. If there is suffi­resolution was announced which 
budget last semester because of the cient interest, a second bus may be requested permission for students 
success of the Irish Gardens Flower rented. The $45 includes to use staff parking lots in the even­
Shop. transportation and lodging in ings and on weekends. This permis­
Because of the increased income Toronto University dormitory. 
sion would be extended only to from Irish Gardens, Director of the Toronto students will visit Notre 
students who have a legitimateStudent Union Steve Strake expects Dame on Feb. 3-6. 
reason to have their cars on cam­
"to end the year in the black." The petition circulated to save pus. The HPC passed this resolu­
As student government spent the hockey team had 2600-2700 
tion at last Tuesday's meeting. over $18,000 of its $32,000 budget, signatures. An announcement will 
The Senate unanimously passedStudent Body President Lloyd not be made concerning the fate of 
a resolution to "find an alternateBurke suggested that some of the the hockey team for another week. 
location for Placement Bureau ac­student union's excess money be Burke related Athletic Director tivities." The Placement Bureaureallocated to the student Senate Gene Corrigan's doubts as to will need to be moved from theas several costly projects are plan­whether "it is valid to continue the Chautauqua Ballroom before thened for this semester. These in­program with such low student sup­Senate can implement its plans forclude a workshop March 1-3 on port." 
developing the ballroom. 
simultaneous husband-wife The senate began to consider a careers, "Little Sibs Weekend" proposal to restructure the book ex­The committee which was study­April 14-16, and the purchase of change,as "the current exchange is ing the Faculty section of the pamphlet racks to be places around not sufficiently utilized." The por­PACE report submitted an evalua­campus. posal would give the exchange to a tion for the senate to comment on 
The also announced that money class each year, which would use it at next week's meeting. Other com­for this year's Toronto Exchange as a money-making project. The mittees are continuing to study the Program is now being accepted at proposal suggests having students remainder of the PACE report; the student government offices. Notre drop off books in the Spring to Senate will submit a complete Dame or Saint Mary's students can save them the expense of storage or evaluation to Executive Vice­visit the University of Toronto on transportation of books. The President Fr. Edmund P. Joyce Feb. 24-27. A non-refundable $25 . class which is handling the book ex-before Spring Break. 


By·~'JARNDYVALENZUELA
8
taJJ eporter 
Horse-drawn sleigh rides, cross-
country skiing, homemade chili and a euchre tournament are just a few of the attractions planned for the second annual City of South Bend Winter Celebration. The event is scheduled for Satur­day, Feb. 5, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. at Erskine Park Golf Course. "They wanted to make a point of inviting the Notre Dame _ Saint Mary's community," said Mark Mai, Notre Dame senior and member of the Winter Celebration 
Steering Committee. He describes the celebration as "a celebration that's not costing the taxpayers 
anTythhingb."d t f th" , 
e . u _ge_ or 1s ye~r s celebr~tl~n Is JUSt _$134, accordmg dt~ Mikklf SDobhskBI, edvenTtsh. coor­
mator o out en . IS was the amount raised during last year's celebration 
"Peoole .are donating services and/or materiab If we can't get It donated, we look around for 
the best price," Dobski said. The committee has arranged to pay for bought materials from the profits the Monday after the celebration. 
The day will start out with a pan­cake and sausage breakfast at 8 
a.m. before the actual festival Activities planned for the day in­
elude "Snow-Bird Softball," sled­aing and inner-tubing, Winter 
USAF ROTC Detachment 225 of the University of Notre Dame received the Outstanding Unit A ward. The detachment was one of 10 nationwide to receive this award. The honor is given for outstanding achievement and exceptionally meritorious service in cadet recruitment and retention rates. (Photo by Lucian Niemeyer) 
ND students invited t~~~;te1·>~-~--~·.,~,.~IR@.llli®DIR®i3CK:·,,~~~ 
South Bend plans winter fest I toRonto €xchany€ I 

CHel1eb~ation 
R1ufns, croquet, and 

o e-m-one go . 
According to Dobski, the pur­pose of the celebration is "to pro­
vide the residents of the community 
(a way) to be able to spend an en­joyable day in the winter... to get out of the wintewr doldrums." 
~ S fe~. 24t-27 
&::. 1'···;·.··.

I 1qn-UpS ~aRt U€S., Jan _,
2

I"" ­
• at th€ StUb€nt r..ov€Rnm€nt QffJC€S 
.,. '-f t-t-
B )'t...
1 CoSt $45 v€P0Sit $25 
~~~~:i-0.-ri:~~'l>.,··•S!IM!IIIIII®•Vi!R~ 





'SayYes toMichigan! 


Boys Concert ~~-Lotteryll 
Thursday Jan 27 in the Nazz, 7 pm 
Tickets are 512.50 
Concert is Feb. 26 
Collegiate Jazz Festival 

General Meeting 
Wednesday, January 26 7:30pm 

LaFortune Ballroom 



vice-president of studenl affairs, discuss the up­
coming student government  elections  with  in­ 
terested  candidates.  Photo  by  Lucian  
Niemeyer. 



~£1()1 -()l\£f?(l\§ 
: 17&9:30PMJ 




-=·,lrn Series

............•. ~~············ 
mon., jan 24 Wasn't That a Time (Pete Seeger) tues., jan 25 $1.00 New Center for Social Concerns 
Ruling Class (Peter O'Toole) 
wed., jan. 26 
Free Engineering Auditorium thurs., jan. 27 One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest fri., jan. 28 $1.00 En ineering Auditorium 
Roses in December (also at noon) 

mon., feb. 14 Free New Center for tues., feb. 15 State of Seige wed., feb. 16 Free New Center for Social Concerns thurs., feb. 17 
Atomic Cafe fri., feb. 18 $1.00 Engineering Audtorium 


NEED HELP WITH YOUR STUDENT LOAN? 
If you've attended college on a Guaranteed Student Loan or a National Direct Student Loan made after October 1, 1975, consider spending a couple of years in the Army. 
If you train for certain specialities, the government will release you from 1/3 of your indebtedness (or $1 ,500, whichever is greater) for each year of active duty. 
Obviously, a three year enlistment cancels 100 <l!f your debt. But if you sign up for the Army's exclusive two-year enlistment or.-tion, we'll still cancel2/3 of your debt. 
Plus, you may be eligible for generous educational incentives. To find out how to serve your country and get out of debt, call the number listed below. SGT Hamilton 234-4187 Call collect 
ARMY, BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
Mary Anne O'Donnell, director of student ac­tivities at Saini Mary's, Monica Gugle, president of the student election committee, Kathleen Mur­phy, student body president, and Elaine Hoctor, 

• • . Abortion 
Ballroom Dance Classes Continue 
The ballroom dance classes at Saint Mary's have been very popular and will continue. 
Wednesday, January 26th, will be the first lesson of a five week ballroom dance class that will be taught by Ray Sexton from Indianapolis, and the total cost is only $25 for five weeks. 
0 Sign up now in the o Saint Mary's Student Activities Otflice 284-4561 
THIS OFFER IS LIMITED TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS ONLY. 


theology at Notre Dame, derived the title of his book from an Old T<:stament passsage: "A voice was heard in Ramah. ~ohbin11: loudly 
and lamenting; it was Rachel weep­ing for her children, refusing to be comforted because they were no more." 
Rachel Weeping is addressed to the public not Catholics alone, acording to its author. Burtchaell's 
study of the issue began in 1976 when he responded to a guest editorial in Newsweek magazine by 

John D. Rockefeller, III. Rachel Weeping, according to Edward Sdlner who reviewd the book for Notre Dame Magazine, "has at­
tempted to raise the level of the abortion argument from an emo­tional harangue to an intelligent discussion." 
... Service 
continuedfrom page 1 
Phoenix, Az., is in the planning stages. 
Some examples of HCA projects are: alcohol abuse programs, counseling for the disabled and the victims of domestic violence, parish work and community organizing. 
In addition to the domestic pro­grams, there also is an international branch of HCA composed of a 
Both Hewitt and Watson stress the value of the HCA experience. group working in Santiago, Chile and one volunteer in Nairobi, Kenya. 
Applications for next year's HCA program may be submitted to Mary Ann Roemer at the Center for Social Concerns by Feb. 8. Students may call Charles Geof­frion at 239-5521 for more infor­mation. 

'k~urvivorship' 
lecture slated tonight 
The Notre Dame Student Union Academic Commission will present a lecture entitled "Survivorship: Peacemaking and Crisis Revolu­tion" by former Iranian hostage Moorehead Kennedy and his wife Louisa, who was the director of the 

Family  Liason  Action  Group,  
tonight  at  8:00  in  the  Library  
Auditorium.  

continuedfrom page I 
preach Christ crucified and to con­vey to all of us that we have nothing better to do with our lives than to give life and nourishment to our brothers and sisters in this world. 
"Only after getting that across," 
he continues, "wouldthe Church 
then find us able to understand how lethal abortion is to the spirits of those who are unready to bear children. And if we then are truly convinced that abortion is the kind of destruction we would see as crime, then the Church would have to raise its voice in the halls of government with the same freedom that any other citizen's group would enjoy." 

Burtchaell, a professor of 


~~()1"tS:L:J:~:=i=e~~~~=S==============================T=u=es=d=ay='=Ja~n=ua=r=y=25='=19=8=3==p=a=ge==5
lh /h(' ()IJS('rt'i'r anu Thi' A.ssociali'd Pri'SS 

The NVA office has announced that signups for men's and women'> interhall track will run through Wednesday, Jan. 26. The NYA also announced that cross-country ski rentals are available again this year. Call 239-6100 for more details. Finally, aerobic exercises are being held on Mondays and Wednesdays at 4:10 in the ACC.-The Observer 
Aerobic dancing for faculty and staff starts this wee~. Classes will meet on Mondays and Wednesdays at 5:15 p.m. m Gym 2 on the ACC upper concourse. A $12 fee will be charged for the seven week course. -The Observer 
Notre Dame-Fordham tickets for the Feb. 10 

game at the Byrne Meadowlands Arena are available at half-price to students at the ACC ticket office. The Irish play the second game of a double-header with Manhattan taking on Holy Cross in the first game. Student tickets are $5. -The observer 
Scott Beisel, the Saint MAry's softball coach, will con­duct an organizational meeting for all Saint Mary's students in­terested in playing on the team this year. The meeting will be held today in the Angela Athletic Facility Lounge and will begin at 6:30 
p.m. Coach Beisel encourages everyone to attend the meeting to discuss the tryout procedures, the schedule, and to answer any questions. Women who have been varsity players should attend as well as people who who have no previous varsity experience. ­
The Observer 
The Tae Kwon Do Club's practice scheduled for Tuesday, Jan. 25, has been cancelled. Practice will be Thursday Jan. 27, at 6:30p.m. in the wrestling room.-The Observer 
The NO women's track club won its meet with St. Joseph's College last Friday, 53 -49. The team fell behind early but came up with a big finish in the two-mile run and the mile relay. Mary O'Connor and Rose Marie Luking finished one-two in the two-mile run. Leslie Heineman, Rosemary Buckle, Barbara Jacobs, and Mary Kennedy teamed up in the mile relay. First­place finishers for the Irish included O'Connor (mile, two mile), Kennedy (600-yard run), and Jean Luther (shotput). -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's swim team defeated Calvin College, 73-48, at Clay High School on Saturday. The Belles finished first in II of the 16 events. Freshman Amy Studer and junior Gail Casey led the team by winning four events apiece. All of the Saint Mary's swimmers who won events were considerably faster than the NAJA national qualifying times. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be 
showing the film, "Football Fever," tomorrow at 9:00p.m. in the Library Lounge. All are invited. -The Observer 
John Paxson will answer callers' questions tonight from 

10:00 to II :00 p.m. on "Speaking of Sports" with hosts Ken Frysztak and Will Hare on WSND AM-64. -The Observer 
The Water polo club will hold an important meeting tomorrow night in the Caron Court of LaFortune at 7:00 p.m. Elections for new officers will take place. The awards dinner will also be discussed. If there are any conflicts, call John at 6837. ­
The Observer 
Interhall volleyball captains HAvE A MEETING 
ON Thursday in the ACC Auditorium. Women's captains will meet at 4:00 and men's captains will meet at 4:30. -The Observer 

The Observer (USPS 59S 920) 15 published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Da'Tle and Sa1nt Mary s Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year tS t 5 per semester) by wnllng The Ob·server P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer will accept classtfteds Mon~ day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classtfieds to appear tn the next 1ssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to tnsertton All class1f1eds must be prepatd. 
etther 1n person or through the mall


Classifieds 
CNOTICES 
O.K. NO MORE CUTE STUFF...IF YOU NEED A HAIRCUT AND DON'T WANT TO PAY MORE THAN $4(GUYS) OR $6(GIRLS) THEN CALL TODAY FOR YOUR VERY OWN APPOINTMENT. MICHOLE 233 -&456 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR Frl· day Noon Til Monday Noon $29.95 In· eludes 150 Free Miles. Sales Tax and Insurance Extra. Phone Rob for Reservations 259 -8459 
Home typing service in Mishawaka please call 259-2334. 
LOST/FOUND \ 
LOST: One dark blue CB Insulated winter jacket, with light blue stripe last seen at Bridget's Sat. night. If you took it by accident, please return it! Call Matt at 8369. 
· ·..... 
FOUND.. Palf of mens gloves'" a class­room on thlfd floor of lt e Englneenng Bu1ldmg They look pretty expens1ve Call 3656 1f they are yours 
LOST: ROOM AND MAIL KEYS OVER THE WEEI<END. INA CIRCULAR KEY CHAIN WITH THE NUMBER21BIM· PRINTED ON THE SIDE OF BOTH KEYS 
LOST -At Holy Cross party SAT. night RED wool hooded coat with navy lining, my name on the inside label -J.F. CONLEY, my tO and key are in the pockets. Please call Joan at 2702. Please, it's my ONLY winter coat. 
FOUND: One man's leather, maroon ski glove (new), in front of Knight's of Columbus Hall. Claim at Lost & Found In Adm. Biuld. 
REWARD FOR WATCH -BLUE AND GREEN BAND. CALL CAROLINE 6240. 
I.....__Fo_R_R_EN_r______,/ 
5-bdrm. completely furniShed, close to campus, ct~mfortable house for group of 5 or 6 for 1983 -84. Phone 288 -3942 alter 6. 
Student housing -6-bdrm. house, fully carpeted, 2 baths, 2 kitchens wlloft. 232 -4057 or 272 -7767. 
ONE SPACE AVAILABLE FOR WOMAN IN N.D. APTS. $80 per mon· th. CALL Caroline 6240. 
Famy open·m1nded roomate needed ~ Thlfd in 3 bdrm apt Castle Pt Apts 
lnfo:277-2657 

4 aprs. for rent, same building, h.W.W. area Room .for 12 students. Unfurnished except 
, stove and refng. Affordable for a group of students. Call616-445-2678. _;:_~----------­
MALE ROOMMATE WANTED ro snare 2 bedroom apt 2nd floor of duplex 2 m11es from campus $67 50/month plus ulililles Grad preferred 289-8118 
WANTED 
NEED RIDE to chicago (Pallatine area) for one of the last weekends in Feb. Call Jeanie at 
7834 
Two need ride to ST. LOUIS this weekend. Can leave Thurs. 1127 Call Meghan 5517 or Beth 4348 (SMC) 
................·.............. . 
need a ride to St. Louis on Friday, Jan, 28. Call Pat at 3508. 
I NEED A RIDE TO DETROIT THIS WEEKEND! JOE 1154 
Need ride to Chicago Friday Jan 28. Call Bob 8998. 
I..__··._..~-.,.~--~·s_·~_-LE_.. ··--~I 
1979 Honda Prelude S1tver grey. rac1ng stnpes. red cloth 1nt All, automatlic AM· FM stereo/Btrack Electnc-powered sun· roof 43,600 m1 . exec cond $4975 or best offer 233·3143, ext 282 after 9·30 
CASSETTES, CASSF:TTES TDK SA·90 $2 70 each No lim1t Call 289·7640 
Typewriter for sale. Gd. Cond., $25 or best offer. Phone3455. 
1978 GRAND LEMANS GOOD CON· DITtON. $3000 or best offer. Call Bob 8998. 
PERSONALS]
I 
SUMMER St:RVJct: PR:;::::CT!> 

GIRL SCOUT COOKIE SALE 
NORTH DINING HALL 
DINNER ...JANUARY 24 -27 
LOST: A set of keys with the number 
3218 Imprinted on them. Please call 
31858! if found 
MARDI GRAS TALENT SHOW 
FEBRUARY 41N CHATAUQUA!!! 
STAINED GLASS ARTIST ACCEP· 
TING WORK ORDERS CALL 2871631 
JUGGLER The Juggler is now accepting fiction, poetry, essays, photography, graphics, etc. for the Spring 1983 issue. Submissions should be turned in at the English Office, 309 O'Shag (Juggler mailbox). 
MARDI GRAS IS COMING!!! Sign up now 
in b01h dining halls. 
NEW YORK! CLEVELAND! BOSTON! CHICAGO! PHILADELPHIA! Tune to 88.9 FM Monday through Friday at 8PM for concerts by the nation's greatest or· 
Ray­let's start another personals war!!! 
HiMomandOad!­Well, you were wondering If you woulf .......................... . Hi Mom and Dad !I ­Well, you were wondering If you would ever see my name In print again-here It is!!! 
Love, 
Carol ps. When do I get to drive Mom's new car?! 
Ralonda aM Sara ­Good luck with Pe's food staes ­can't wait to have bagels again!!! 
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY LYNN CROWELL!! Behave yourself if you can fight off all your admirers trying to show you a happy birthday. (And I'll bet you didn't even know I knew what today was. Silly girl, you couldn't escape!) 
Mr. Buffalo, I had a wlld·n·crazy time the other night. Hope the fun continues. A Fellow New Yorker 
CRC MARA-Parting is all we know of heaven and all we need of hell 
EMILY BURNS: YOU ARE AN IN· Due to a lack of foresighl on everyone else's CREDIBLE ROOMMATE NOT TO poart, I am throwmg my own surpnse MENTION PERSON. YOU DID AN bmhday party. Show up by Jp Tues. the 25 at AWESOME JOB ON POP FARLEY 305 Grace to reallky surprise me. THE JOHN BUT LAST, ANYONE WHO DOES MY HAUTER FAN CLUB LAUNDRY GETS MY UNDYING ------------­
GRADITUOE. MERCI BEAUCOUP!!!! LOVE, A.M. 
To the cuckoos in the Crowe's nest: Erin-Hey Scull wanna hug? Dan-Sorry Clueless, Greg is STILL in the bathroom. Steve-You brought out the beast In us. 
be ed the Observer organizational
lnfolnformation and application~ may John· Wonder if Johnny Apple Seed 
reporters meeting on Thursday, it's 
turns red in a bean bag? not too late. Still interested in
obtained by coma..:ting Andrea Shappell at 
the Cemer for Social Concerns, 239-5293. 
becoming the Ben Bradley of your
Applications deadline: January 31. time? Call 239-5303 or stop by the Fran· You're hard to cut on 'cause you --------------Notre Dame Observer office (third LADIES. OF COLUMBUS meeting never played a sour note. mardi gras is coming!! mardi gras is coming!! floor of LaFortune} and ask for tonight at 8:30pm at the K of C. New Gregums· Get out of the bathroom 
--------------MArgaret. The time is now members welcome! 
with our earrings and eyeliner. 
chestras. This is the perfect study BOP TILL YOU DROP!!! MARDI GRAS aid from WSND·FM ... In stereo! DANCE-A-THON SATURDAY, FEBRUARY# FEATURING CHARIOT CC· Too much spaghetti makes a long walk short. 
Fraaan-Did your fantasy melt yet? Any Saint MAry's students who miss· 
MARDI GRAS TALENT SHOW 
Tom· Son of Bologna goes ROTC.
FEBRUARY If IN CHAUTAUQUA!!! 
Fitness t-atr-
Sunday Jan. 30, 1983· 1:00-4:15p.m.· Angela Athletic Facility· Saint Mary's College· SPECIAL GUEST SPEAKER· Willye White· "MOTIVATION EVERYDAY LIFE" INFO: CENTERS, PRESENTATIONS, YOGA, AEROBICS, WEIGHT TRAIN· lNG, ETC. 

Pat· Doorknob-Take your bean bag out of the closet and go to lunch at 
GOD'S COUNTRY NEEDS ELEC· 
theY.
BUY MARDI GRAS TICKETS--WIN A 
TRICITY TOO! "Advocates of 
Jim· WE WANT WIGGLE WORM! 
TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS!!! Nuclear Power Generation in South Bam-Bam· Can you spit and smile at
Dakota, tan deHueck Chairman, will 
the same time? 
DANCE·A-THON for MARDI GRAS hold its first meeting tonight in room Hugs & Kisses,
354 Alumni. Solar power's alright,
Sarurday,'February 5--sign up NOW The Exhibitionist, Whore, & Terrorist
but nukes do it all night!! 
When in Elkhart, do as the Elkhar· Writers needed: to Mlch Tech. Feb. tiansdo. 3-6. C1llex. 5480. P.S. Your hair needs combing! 
r 
--·--~·~-­
The Observer Tuesday, January 25, 1983 -page 6 
Valenzuela seeks n1illion dollar contract 
NEW YORK (AP) -Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Fernando Valenzuela asked yesterday that he be awarded a $1 million salary for 1983 as he formally filed for salary arbitration. The Dodgers reported­ly sibmitted a figure of $750,000. 
Both figures are the highest ever filed since salary arbitration was in­troduced in baseball in 1974. 
If agreement is not reached between the Dodgers and Valen­zuela before a hearing next month, an arbitrator will choose one of the two figures he was asked to con­sider. Either way, the salary will be the highest ever awarded through arbitration. 
Bruce Sutter, then a reliever with the Chicago Cubs, received $700,000 through arbitration in 1980. 
Valenzuela held out duringspring training last year, his second in the majors, and eventually settled for $350,000. He was not eleigible for arbitration until this year. 
Valenzuela had a 19 -13 record for the Dodgers last year, with an ERA of 2.87 and 199 strikeouts. 
Nolan Ryan of the HOuston Astros is the only pitcher to reach the $1 million-a-year salary level in the majors. 


Buy b erver
5
0 Classifieds . 
cont1 uedfrom page 8 
yard .reestyle ahead of the pack. 
Dan Flynn, Glen Battle, and Blaise 
Harding were the other winners as 
each performed well in a 200-yard 
race. Flynn took first in the but­
terfly while Battle won a 
backstroke race and Harding won 
the breaststroke. 
Things had turned out better. for 
the Irish against the Falcons of 
Bowling Green. Notre Dame open­
ed a large lead, powered by strong 
performances in the early freestyle 
events, and hung on to win the 'meet. 
This time it was Bohdan who 
grabbed two first-place finishes to 
lead the team. The sophomore 
standout shattered the varsity mark 
in the 1000-yard freestyle with a 
winning time of 10:02.24. His 
other victory came in the 500-yard 
free. 

Blaise Harding was also a double 
winner as he won the 200-yard in­
dividual medley and the 200-yard breaststroke. 
His brother AI made a fine show­ing by taking first in the 200-yard free and getting touched out in the 100-yard free for a second place finish. 
"There were a number of close finishes today," Irish Coach Dennis Stark said. "I was pleased to see such an enthustiastic performance. 
"It is good to start off like this after a long layoff." 
However, things did not go too well for the Irish women as they were soundly defeated by Bowling Green, 91-58. 
The Falcons who have been building a Mid-American Con­ference power in women's swimm­ing for the past few years, over­whelmed Notre Dame with their depth. The Falcons had eleven vic­tories and six 1-2 finishes, while the Irish could manage only six firsts. 
Karen Korowicki and Venette Cochiolo were triple winners for the Irish. Gina Gamboa was Notre Dame's only other individual win­
-'llo> 

ERE ARE JUST A FEW OF THE NAME BRANDS OF MERCHANDISE THAT MUST BE SOLD DURING THIS FINAL SALE! Don't miss out 
adidas ~ Wibon (,) Mt.).J~ lfjconveRs~:. =zonfiii1 J~ )t>ALDING A~F j:;D11/£~
lllJ ~BOAST ·pumft IQtY'~CYW"" 
Athletic Footwear 

over 1000 pr. in stock Qi~~~~j~~ Tennis· 
"f.a• 


a"f-~1. 
Spalding· Puma 
Wilson ·Converse 

T·SHIRTS 
re4. $5-6 value 


$2.99 
3 for 00
....
~ 


Values from $1.50-$2.50 NOW ONLY 99c and up! IZOD Sport Socks 
Now $1.49 pr. or 3 pr for $4.00 

... Swim 
ner. 
The Irish 200-yard medley relay team of Raila Tikka, Cochiolo, Gamboa, and Korowicki captured first place while Korowicki took the 50 and I 00-meter freestyle events, Cochiolo the 100-yard breaststroke and the 200-yard individual medley, and Gamboa the 50-yard fly. 
Both Irish swim teams now travel to Canada to meet Western Ontario on Thursday. They will then visit St. Bonaventure on Saturday. 
• • • Wrestlers 
continuedfrom page 8 
Carnesale are questionable at 134 
and 158 respectively. Both have 
had the flu recently and Bruno is 
unsure if they will recuperate by , 
tonight. 
Matt Stamm at 190 has been 
bothered by a knee injury lately 
and he is also doubtful for tonight. 
If Stamm should be unable to go, 
Notre Dame would have to forfeit 
for lack of a replacement. 
LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! Omega Productions, Inc. is now opening their Mobile Music Division. We can provide any type of music for any type of event. Parties are our specialty. Custom music programming is available Call 684-8100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 
~I:
.•. 
' ~< ...~ . . 
_ ....
i~ 531 N. M1ch1gan St.. . 
II South Bend I. 
a IM 
I0 Phone 233-4957 I" 
i;,;=·
..-••,..__-; •ISimwa•~. 
NEW HOURS 
WE ARE NOW OPEN FOR 
LUNCH MON. THRU FRI. 
MON-THURS 11 A.M.-10 P.M. FRill A.M.-12 MIDNIGHT SAT 4 P.M.-12 MIDNIGHT CLOSED SUNDAY 

FREE SALAD WITH ANY PIZZA PASTA OR SANDWICH ' LUNCHEON ORDER. (Dming room only) 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 
.,.01'11' '''"""

IheO~rver======================================= 



~~4()l~~=============================T=u=es=d=a=y,=J=a=n=u=ar=y=2=5='=19=8=3===p=a=g==e7 


A bus will leavt!'the Main Circle at 9 a.m. on Sat., Jan 29 and will go to State and Randolph Sts. 
Bus will leave from that site at 6 p.m. to return to N.D. 


Campus 
All day -Billiards Tournament Sign-ups,Pool Room under the Huddle 
4:30p.m. -Biology Seminar,"Maintenance of Eukaryotic Extrachromosomal DNA: Autonomously Replicating Sequences Derived from the Yeast Mitochondrial Genome," Dr. Bradley C. Hyman, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
5 p.m. -Memorial Mass, for Michelle and Rita Murphy, Fr. Hesburgh, and Fr. Gene Gor­ski, Sacred Heart Church 
7 p.m. -WOW Lecture, "Working Out and Working In: Advice Across the Ages," Mary Harris Veeder, Stapleton Lounge 
7,9:15, and 11:30 -Film, "True Grit," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Dolphin Club, $1 
7 and 9:30 p.m. -Film, "Wasn't ThaT A Time?" Center for Social Concerns Bldg., $1 
7:30 
p.m. -Wrestling, ND vs. University of Cincinnati and ~abash, ACC 

7:30 
-Film, "The War Game," 241 Madaleva, SMC 


8 p.m. -Senior Formal Committee Meeting, St. Mary's, LeMans Lobby 
9 p.m. -SMC Student Government Election, Information Meeting, SACR 
9:30 p.m. -Film, "The War Game," Hayes­Healy Auditorium 
10 p.m. -Speaking of Sports, Will Hare, WSND-AM64 11 p.m. -Captured Live, Squeeze, WSND­AM64 
The Daily Crossword 

©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
1125/83
All Rights Reserved 
ACROSS 1 Complacent 5 Sufficient 
10 Continental 
prefix 14 Topnotch 15 "The Merry 
Widow" 
composer 16 Concoct 17 Bump 18 Early US 
patriot 19 Spelunker's hideaway 20 -up (primp) 
22 Partner of call 24 Wimple 
wearer 25 Tell 
Monday's Solution 


1/25/83 
28 Remnants 54 Former 30 -de mer Indian 32 Entrance province 33 Hindu 56 Clergyman 
garment 58 Directed 34 In the past 59 Baltic gulf 35 Kind of 61 Specks 
numerals 64 Nevada town 37 Hebrew 66 "-and month ale" 40 Having 69 Card game 
frills 70 Desideratum 42 Compare 71 "-in a 44 Apropos of Country 45 Upset Churchyard" 47 Tennis cup 72 High nest 49 Extra bed 73 Prohibi· 50 Long time tionists 52 Troublesome 74 Synthetic 
one 
53 Unclose, poetically 

fabric 75 Bobcat 
DOWN 1 Grit 2 Othello, 
for one 3 Well­protected 4 Gaggle members 5 Mountain 
peak 6-culpa 7 Symbol of 
academic 
excellence 8 Byway 9 Sets up 
10 Alphabet start 11 Name in 
anthems 12 Show 13 Jesse of 
Olympics 
fame 21 Blemish 23 Persian 
silver coin 26 False god 27 Mousy 29 Song 30 African 
land 31 Petri dish 
item 36 -say die 38 At the peak 39 Memo 41 Safecracker 43 Unless 46 Letter 
opener 48 Prow 51 Kitchen 
implement 54 Mixture 55 Certain 
fisherman 57 Rope 
material 60 Festive 62 Merit 63 Hades river 65 Military 
garb, for 
short 67 Conceit 68 Opp. to 
ant. 

The Far Side 
'"Chronicle Features'", ar d'~ 
"There you go again! ... Every time the bears fight, you're right there!" 
• 

Bloom County 
ALL&I01N65 
smP,MR~JUJ 


Simon 

(/1/fOL? 
YE5? 


Fate 
EXCUSE ME, BuT L THINK YOL( HI'D B£TTfl? sroP EATIN~ mar£" 
DOWiltNUT5. 
LCT'51DRPU\:J 1HI51<UNWN BRAIN 
INID 5ffiC£ 11\15TI "" 
"'-. 
'fH(Y HAVE' A 'WAY or 
SN£1\KIN~ UP ON YOu. 
AND TH£N, WlfHOur 
WARN IN~, "PooF" 
YE:AH/EAT ANTI­
IV\ATIE-R, 
YOU SffiC£ i7UC// lEU. 'lf.1 
MK5RXK 1 

Berke Breathed 

.•. OR WAS 
IHPirMOF 
CHARACTER7 NOlNO/ 1HATWA5
\ JUST *e>lt!t 
Jeb Cashin 


Photius 
I KN£W I SHOULD 
HAY[ SAID SOMETHING SOONER.. \ 

... 

r 
Tuesday, January25, 1983-page8



snorts 
Wrestlers grab top spot in Siena tournament 
By JEFF BLUMB Man" now holds a 21-11-1 record, including two third places in tour­
"> Sports Writer 
naments. 

The Notre Dame wrestling team Another freshman, Eric Crown, had a successful afternoon Satur­has been performing well of late, day at the first annual Siena and he continued his winning ways Heights Invitational. Propelled by with a first-place finish. The liS­a number of outstanding individual pounder now has a first, a third, performances, the Irish finished and a fourth in tournaments to go first in the 10-team field. along with an impressive 18-8-1 
Notre Dame got off to a quick season mai:k. start and held the early lead in the The team's success in the tourna­tournament, but it took a clutch ment went beyond the four first­win and a little luck to gain the top place finishes, however, as co­honors. The Irish narrowly edged captain ,Don Heintzelman, 20-10 Oakland and host Siena Heights as for the season, topped the list of se­a total of less than three points cond and third-place showings by separated the three teams. grabbing second at 142. "The 
"The way we started out, I Muncie Mauler" now has a second thought we would hold first all the place, two fourths, and a fifth in way through the tournament," said the usually more competitive tour­Irish coach Brother Joseph Bruno, naments. 
C.S.C. "But then we slipped down Also taking second for Notre 
to third or fourth. Dame was Windy City native Scott "When we dropped back, I really 
Bentivenga. Bentivenga, a had my doubts that we could come sophomore now has three second back up to first. Oakland Universi­places, a fourth, and a fifth in tour­ty was extremely tough." naments as well as an 18-17-1 It came down to the last two mat­
record. 

ches. Notre Dame first needed Last year's winningest wrestler, some help from Oakland at 190, sophomore Phil Baty, joined the then neede its own heavyweight, long list of Irish winners. He took Mike Golic, to win his match in third at 167, his third strong show­order to win the meet. That is ex­ing in a tournament this season. In actly what happened. 
fact, the injury-prone Baty has It is not hard to understand why gone to only three tournaments. 

the Irish won this tournament. 
He stands at 21-3-1 in regular ac­They were involved in the finals of 

tion. 

six of the 10 weight classes. "We Bruno hopes that the team's really dominted the finals," laugh­strong showing will carry over to ed Bruno. 
tonight as his wrestlers square off Mark Fisher, the winningest Irish with Wabash and Cincinnati at 

wrestler with a 29 -6 record, once 7:30 in the ACC. 
again played a major role in the "(Wabash) is extremely toughteam's performance as he took first for a small school," says Bruno. 
place at 126. Fisher now has four "Their team is primarily composed first places, two thirds and a fourth of upperclassmen and they have a in tournament action this season. 
lot of depth in all of their weights.

Heavyweight Golic's first place Plus their coach is also the athletic 
finish was also impressive as this director, and that always helps." 
was his only tournament ap­Bruno is unsure of how well his 
pearance of the season. He has yet 
team will perform because his to be defeated in ten matches. 
lineup has been victimized by a rash Freshman standout John Krug of injuries. Joe Andreeti and Louis got his second tournament first 

place of the season at 177. "Krug See WRESTLERS, page 6 

have things well in control during a match with Depauw last week. The entire Irish team had things in control this weekend as they finished 
After long layoff 
Swimmers split weekend meets 
Super Bow/1983 


Dolphins seek glory days again 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the first of four Super Bowl preview columns by Sports Editor Emeritus Skip Desjardin, who will be in Pasadena as pan of the Obsen·er's unprecedented coverage from the West Coast this weekend. 
A decade. 
Almost hair a lifetime for some of us. Even more 
than that for others. 
It has been ten years since the Mtami Dolphins did what, almost certainly, will never be done again. They went through the entire NFL season without los­ing a game. 
In the Los Angeles Coliseum, the Dolphins ­despite an ill-fated attempt to pass by a part-time tie salesman by the name of Yepremium and the resulting interception return. by Mike Bass -defeated the Washington Redskins, 14-7, in Super Bowl VII. 
They did it without their star quarterback. They did it with a defense so anonymous they became known as the "No-Name Defense." But they did it. 
And in a small town in Maine, a kid sat glued to the TV every Sunday, waiting for word. The same kid came running home from school on Thursdays, check­ing the mail for the clippings he knew were on the way from Florida. 
See, the kid had forsaken the Patriots and the Giants -the teams most New England youngsters pretended to be when the touch football games were played in countless backyards. 
Three years before, he had travelled to Florida, and his uncle had made him a Dolphin fan. Since then, the mail and brought weekly clippings, hats, T-shirts, and bumper stickers. Everything a long-distance Dolphin fan needed to root his team to victory. 
That Christmas, a new bike and a pile of other presents went largely unnoticed as the kid wandered around showing relatives his autographed copy of Larry Csonka's book. 
And when the Super Bowl rolled around, the kid got out the hats and the stickers and the pins and the pictures. He lined them all up in front of the TV ­"for luck." 
first in the Siena Heights Tournament. For more details about the fine showing, see Jeff Blumb's story at the left. (Photo by Ed Carroll(. 
Skip Desjardin 
Sports Editor Emeritus 
And it worked. Ten years have passed. Not too long ago, the kid came across a box that still contained all the clippings. 
There was Griese breaking his leg. There was Fer­nandez making the sack. There was Howard Twilley with the fingertip catch. 
And there was the picture. 
A kid and his uncle, resplendent in Dolphin T-shirts and hats, waving white hankies. 
Ten years is a long time. But the moment the pic­ture was taken is frozen in the kid's memory. 
See, Miami is a community of many retirees, and the uncle was among them. Many are no longer around to see the Dolphins every week -riding the bus to the game and sitting in the end zone -and the uncle is among them, too. 
Moments after the picture was taken, the kid and the uncle parted for the last time. 
This weekend, the Dolphins go back to Southern California. Back to the Super Bowl. Back to face the Washington Redskins. Ten years have passed, and many of the names have changed. 
Kiick and Warfield went to the WFL with Csonka. 
Morris was sentenced to prison this week on drug 
charges. Buonoconti is doing a weekly show on HBO. 
Little is a college coach. Scott was traded to the Red-• skins before he retired. 
Now there is Duhe and Hardy and Woodley and Franklin. But Shula is still there. So are Kuechengerg and Den Herder. 
And the kid is still a Dolphin fan. 
Sunday, a white hankie will wave in the Rose Bowl -for the kid, and the uncle, and the time they've been apart. 
A decade. 
Half a lifetime for some of us. 
However, Ferris State won the event by a slim margin and took the meet, 60-53. 
Junior AI Harding led the Irish swimmers in the tough loss by win­ning. two events. He took both the 100-meter free and the 200-meter free. 
Tim Bohdan also joined the list of winners as he finished the 1000­
See SWIM, page 6 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swim team, coming off of a long six­week layoff, returned to action over the weekend and was able to split a pair of meets, winning at home against Bowling Green before dropping a tough road meet to Ferris State. 
Both meets went right down to the wire and were marked by ex­citing finishes in many events as the Irish had to battle to hold off Bowl­ing Green, 58-55, on Friday and then travel to Ferris State the next day only to lose on the last event of the day. 
At Big Rapids, Mich., Notre Dame went into the final event, the 400-yard freestyle relay, tied with the Bulldogs. A victory would have swung the meet to the Irish. 





