• • • Ice Capades -page 6 

VOL XVII, NO. 119 the independent ~tudent nnnpapcr ~t-r\·ing notre dame and ~aint maf\··~ MONDAY, MARCH 28, 1983 
Leahy supports freeze; statement passes 
ByTOMMOWLE new weapons." StuffReporter Leahy credited the nuclear freeze movement wth forcing Reagan to 
Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy "start talks in the first place" that told nuclear freeze supporters may lead to a halt of the "mad Friday night they represent the best momentum of the arms race." The hope for "slowing the nuclear tread­arms race otherwise "promises to be mill." the most dangerous and costly ever. 
Keynoting the regional con­It may be impossible to devise ference, "Justice in a Nuclear verifiable ways to control these new Future?" held here last weekend, weapons," he said. Leahy challenged the delegates to "Ifwe got into the next generation "shape the freeze idea into a prag­of weapons," Leahy warned, "these matic, viable negotiating proposal." will be so accurate and so terrifying­Responding to this challenge, the ly powerful that if any mistake is delegates passed a statement made, if one side thinks the other has endorsing "an immediate, bi-lateral, fired, war will start." verifiable freeze between the two Alluding to previous errors in superpowers on the production, tes­North American Air Defense Com­ting, and deployment of nuclear mand (NORAD) warning systems, weapons as a first step toward the senator said, "We wouldn't have worldwide control and reduction of time to find out if a mistake was nuclear arms." made. It could be the end of the 
This statement meets Leahy's con­world." ditions for Senate approval of any Two-hundred and thirty students nuclear arms control treaty: "It must and faculty from 25 schools in seven be mutual, verifiable, conducive to states attended the regional con­strategic stability, and as com­ference which filled the Library prehensive as feasible, consistent Auditorium. Workshops were held Conflict with activities with national security." Leahy does Saturday on various nuclear-related not favor a unilateral freeze because issues. he does not believe the Russians In addition to endorsing a freeze, 

Moslems denied right to prayers
would reciprocate. the delegates' statement supported 

The Vermont senator expressed the initiatives of the Catholic Bis­ByPATSAIN with scheduled activities in the people using the lounge during the concern over the competence of hops, questioned the morality of News Staff lounge. lunch hour, and ifthey find the room President Reagan, stating, "Nobody possessing nuclear weapons, and The International Student Or­busy, they should look for another in the White House understands the expressed "determination to create Several Moslem students have ganization (ISO) would like to use place to pray. They must be complexities of arms control. I a network of Catholic college stu­been denied use of the International the lounge for a coffee hour at lunch, tlexible," said Tallarida. believe President Reagan personally dents" to study the issue. Student Lounge for their daily noon but the Moslem students want to Ammar also mentioned that be­favors an arms control agreement, Student contact Michael O'Brien prayers by Father Thomas Tallarida, pray in the lounge at 12:30 as re­cause the Moslems no longer have but only one which does not inter­director of International Student Af­quired by the Koran. 
the key to the lounge, they cannot fere with his own plans to deploy See LEAHY, page 3 fairs, who says the prayers conflict "My concern is for the Interna­unlock it during the lunch hour 
tional Student Organization as a when they want to pray. The Inter­whole, not for one particular 
national Student Affairs office is 
group," stated Tallarida.
In 'uneasy truce' 
closed during lunch, he said, andThe Moslems have had a key to there is no assured way of getting athe ISO lounge for a year and a half, key to the lounge.
so they could use it for prayer in the "We have had to pray outside a 



Israelis face Lebanese challenges 
afternoons. The lounge is keptBEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) -Israeli The long stay in Lebanon while cent left means 150 people and 150 few times because we could not get
locked when not in use. soldiers in Lebanon face guerrilla at­U.S. mediators try to work out a people can cause a hell of a lot of in," Ammar stated.
Two weeks ago, Tallarida re­tacks, an uneasy truce among withdrawal agreement has proved damage when they act in groups of 

quested the students return the "It would be unfair for one group

Lebanese factions and friction with frustrating for the Israelis. There three and four." 
lounge key because the Moslem's ofstudents to have a key, and not the U.S. peacekeepers, as they patrol have been persistent hit-and-run at­Uri, who declined use of his last praying was interfering with the others," Tallarida pointed out. "No hazardous territory stretching 60 tacks on Israeli supply lines, political name in keeping with Israeli military regular scheduled activities in the one would know who is doingmiles north ofIsrael's border. unrest in the central mountains and policy, said, "I don't know ofany that lounge. Ammar said only one inci­what," he said. 

Western diplomats say there are southern Lebanon, and a growing we have caught" but added that it of contlict their noon
dent with 25,000 to 30,000 Israeli troops in coolness between Israelis and their was possible some were ap­Efforts have been made to find an 
prayer has occurred. 

Lebanon, spread outover about one­pre-war allies, the Christians. prehended. alternative place for the Moslems to
"We asked the students in the pray, said Tallarida. Campus Minis­quarter of the country. They are as "There is no doubt that there are "You have to understand that it's lounge if we could use it privately try has made Bulla Shed available for far north as Monte Verde in the groups ofterrorists coming from the very hard. If they shoot at a car and 

for religious purposes for a few central highlands east ofBeirut. area held by the Syrian army," said people are injured, it takes a few the Moslem's Friday prayer, which isminutes, and they responded very 
Even though the war stopped last Brig. Gen. Amnon Lifkin, comman­minutes before people can react," Ammar said. came away longer than other weekday prayers.
well," "I September with the departure ofthe der of Israeli troops near Beirut and he said. A meeting between the officers of
feeling that a great respect existed last Palestine Liberation Organiza­in the central mountains, during a PLO officials say the attacks are on campus for religious beliefs." the ISO and the Moslem group 
tion fighters and Syrian soldiers in recent interview at his headquarters produced a temporary solution,
the works of Palestinians. "The Moslems are not the only Beirut, Lebanon maintains a dan­in Aley, 12 miles east of Beirut. gerous place. The 50-mile-long front line with 

Israeli army spokesmen say 470 the Syrians had been relatively quiet soldiers have been killed and 2, 592 since Lifkin arrived in November, wounded since the invasion began but he said he expected increased last June 6 to push out the PLO. int11tration after the winter snows Since Sept. I alone. 125 soldiers melt. Such raids could rekindle died, 209 were wounded and eight Syrian-Israeli fighting. have been kidnapped, an Israeli "Because the Israeli and Syrian spokesman in Lebanon told The As­armies are in some places very close 
sociated Press. to each other, it will always be a pos­
The tlnancial burden of maintain­sibility," said Lifkin, a 39-year-old ing troops and heavy arms far veteran ofthe 1973 Arab-Israeli war. beyond Israel's borders has also been high. An Israeli spokesman in Far more vital to Israel's security Tel Aviv estimated that by the end of is south Lebanon, which adjoins Is­March the 11gure would be roughly rael's northern border and has been S 1.6 billion. the scene of recent demonstrations 
Diplomats say they feel the high as well as guerrilla attacks. human and material costs are a Capt. Uri, an Israeli spokesman in major deterrent to further contlict the port city of Sidon, said there between Israel and Syria in Lebanon, were 15,000 Palestinian guerrillas even though the latter is being re­and supporters in the South before equipped with advanced Soviet the invasion. He said that even if 99 
percent were driven out, "one per-
weapon~. 


SMC Dean Rice· resigns at meeting 
By ANNE MONASITRSKI 
Suint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Dean ofStudent Affairs Kathleen M. Rice announced 
her resignation at last night's Board ofGovernance meeting. 
"I feel I've done alii can at Saint Mary's," Rice said when asked why 
she decided to leave. 
"It's painful to see people come and go in my life," Rice said during 
her farewell speech to the Board. 
Rice has been at Saint Mary's for seven years. She will return to her 
home in Manltattan, New York, when her resignation becomes ef­
fective in June. 
"I think highly of Saint Mary's, I think highly ofyou," she added. 
In assessing her roles at Saint Mary's, Rice said, "I've taught, dis­
ciplined and tried to communicate. I've learned you are all very 
different; you are all unique. You are a treasure," Rice said. 
when one of the officers gave the group his key of the lounge. Tal­larida also requested the return of that key, Ammar said. 
"We thought we (the internation­al students) could resolve the problems among ourselves," Am mar said. In a recent meeting with the of­
ficers, the Moslems, and Tallarida, the officers said they could no lon­ger give the lounge key to the Mos­lems. "We were very disappointed," said Ammar. "They backed down on us." 
Ammar also mentioned that "arrangements are being made to give us a regular place to pray," and they look promising. "Many of us like being at Notre Dame, because 
religious activities are respected and emphasized along with education," Ammar said. "We were very happy to be here, because our religious ac­tivities are very important." 



By The Ohsen,er and The Associated Press 

ews Brie/§ 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University pre~i­
dent, will receive three honorary degrees this May, increasing his world record total to 96. He will deliver the commencement address at Saint joseph College, Rensselear, Ind., May 1, be honored at Education Day at Rider College, Lawrenceville, N.J., May 1 1 and preach the bacclaureate sermon at Colgate University, Hamilton, N.Y., May 29. -The Observer 
Wednesday is the last day to rescind housing 
contracts without penalty. A shortage ofon-campus housmg forced Father Michael Heppen, director of student residences, to extend the deadline nearly a month ago. If a student who has turned in a contract decides to move off campus after Wednesday, will forfeit the room deposit and have to pay a S 1 50 fine. -The Obsen1er 
California's burgeoning offshore oil 
development foreshadows a large West Coast crude oil surplus las­ting into the next century, theOil & gas]ournal reports. The weekly business magazine says that barring a radical shift in demand or a severe price slide, the West Coast crude excess will swell perhaps another 300,000 to 500,000 barrels a day through the next two decades, beyond the current surplus ofabout 700,000 barrels a day. Offshore California oil will account for almost all of that additional growth, leading to heavier, higher sulfur content oil on the West and Gulfcoasts, theJournal said. Disposing ofthat additional low quality crude will require a huge industry investment in new processing, treating and transportation facilities, it said. -AP 
Prosecutors have reopened the investigation 
of a Texas City, Texas nursing home once indicted on murder 
charges in the deaths of eight patients. Autumn Hills Convalescent 
Centers Inc. and eight current and former employees were indicted 
last year on charges of causing the deaths of eight patients through 
abuse and neglect from 1978 to 1979. The Galveston County district 
attorney agreed let the corporation plead no contest to a charge of 
involuntary manslaughter in one death, and all murder charges were dismissed. However, his successor sought to nullify the agreement and defense lawyers withdrew the plea in january. The latest grand jury inquiry began Friday, but its term ends Thursday and a new grand jury to be empaneled next month will hear most of the tes­timonv. -AP 
U.N. 
Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuell_ar arrived yesterday in the Soviet capital, where he is expected to dis­cuss Afghanistan and other issues with Communist Party chiefYuri 

V. 
Andropov. Before leaving London, Perez de Cuellar told reporters he planned to talk with Andropov and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko, who met him at the airport. Perez de Cuellar was last in Moscow in September, when he met Leonid I. Brezhnev. Brezhnev died two months later and Andropov was named to succeed him as party general secretary. A spokesman for Perez de Cuellar said earlier this month that U.N.-sponsored talks by Pakistan and Afghanistan will resume April 11 in Geneva, Switzerland. The last talks were held there in )une, 1982. The Soviets maintain an estimated 100,000 troops in Afghanistan, where guerrillas are fight­ing the pro-Moscow Marxist regime. About 2.3 million refugees from the fighting have fled to Pakistan, which demands a Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. -AP 


A deadly herpes epidemic has struck the stud 
farm for Austria's world-famous Lippizaner horses, killing 30 mares and foals and threatening 220 other horses, a government veterinarian said yesterday. The dancing Lippizaner stallions, picked from horses bred at the farm, are one ofVienna's prime tourist attrac­tions and are famed for their ballet maneuvers and aerial feats. Last year, the horses made their first U.S. tour in nearly 20 years. The epidemic has not affected the performing horses, trained at the Royal Spanish Riding School in Vienna. But the veterinarian, Dr. Oth­mar Schmehlik, said five broodmares and 2 5 foals have died since the 
beginning of March from rhinopneumonitis, a disease he said is caused by a strain of herpes virus. Five other horses apparently are infected at the farm, home for about 220 fillies, mares and their foals, he said. The herpes strain that hit the Lippizaners is specific to horses and is not directly related to the human herpes strain that has swept the sexually active population in the United States. -AP 
Thousands ofDanes marched yesterday in protest against the nuclear arms race and the planned deployment of new medium-range missiles in Western Europe. In Copenhagen, about 6,000 people gathered in Town Hall Square after a 13-mile march from the Danish Defense Command headquarters. At Aarhus, Denmark's second-largest city, and in a number of other major towns, similar marches attracted thousands more protesters. Numerous peace groups organized the protests under the slogan "A Danish No to NATO's New Rockets." In Copenhagen, demonstrators tors heard Inge Fischer Moeller, vice chairman of the opposition Social-Democratic party, condemn NATO's planned deployment of 572 Pershing 2 and cruise missiles as "another step in the arms race 
serving only to strengthen the reciprocal threats." -AP 
Snow showers and cold weather today 
with early steady temperature in the low to mid 30s. Gradual clear­ing and cold tonight with the low in the low 20s. It will be sunny and a bit warmer tomorrow with the high in the low 40s. -AP 
Monday, March 28, 1983 -page 2 
New Beginnings 


With the beginning of Holy Week, the Church begins its observance of the final days of Lent. Have these forty days slipped by already? Until yesterday when we carried palms at Mass, it may not have occurred to U!> that it is Lent. 
Hut even before Palm Sunday there have been ac­tivities going on at Saint Mary's providing students with opportunities to observe this season in several way!>. Throughout the season of Lent, Campus Ministry ha!> been providing liturgical and penitential services at various times in order to accommodate each student\ schedule. Daily Mass is offered in LeMan's chapel at 
12:20 p.m. during most students' lunch hour. 
And every Monday evening there has been a prayer service in Regina Chapel. Attendance has varied, but there has never been more than thirty students present at any one service, according to Campus Ministry. 
Volunteer Services sponsored an Awareness Week, the first week ofLent, informing students ofthe services it provides. The service posted the results of a sur­vey that revealed only 20 percent of Saint Mary's stu­dents are volunteers. Volun­teer Services acts a referral agency which finds place­
Anne Monastyrski 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Inside Monday 
the few things we vehemently gave up as children? We might accept the challenge to give up vendos orAllMy Children, but could we survive without Corby's? 
Perhaps the lack of a commercialized holiday like Christmas makes Lent all the more challenging to ob­serve. Although the media does not bombard us during Lent, the traditional Lenten purple drapes dorm chapels to remind and set the proper mood. And. except for a few, most of us know why Saga serves no meat on Fridays. So the spirit of Lent is established on campus. 
Still, it's not the same as when we were younger. and moreover, it seems to pass ever more quickly and in many cases unnoticed. 
Is it because we see no real value in Lent besides the 
ment for students wishing to devote some of their time to helping the community. 
So now we know of the various opportunities on campus in which we could have become involved during Lent. Perhaps we knew 36 days ago when the season first began. We know obligation to go to confes­sion? Or might we lack determination and will power without parents to remind U!> thar we gave up candy for Lent? It might be that Lent just gets lost in the shufile of papers, exams and Daytona. 
If at no other time ofyear, 

that there is daily Mass that we could have attended everyday during Lent, and that in order to increase the percentage of volunteering students at Saint Mary's, all we needed to do was stop by the Volunteer Services office in the basement of Holy Cross. The question is, why didn't we? 
Positive participation aside, there is still the issue of fasting and abstinence. Many ofus are relieved for once that our real i.d.s testify that we are not yet 21 -and therefore waived of the obligation to fast on Fridays. Abstaining from meat once a week may be the only way in which we actively take part in Lent. But even last Friday someone in line at the dining hall asked why there was no meat in the cleli line. 
It seems to me that when we were younger, "giving up something" was a challenge and once we gave it up, we never "cheated", not even on Sundays. Even though we were told that giving up was a negative way of observing the season, it seemed as though in the end we had done something positive for ourselves. 
Why has it become difficult to even deny ourselves 
but during the apex of the Church year, should we not attempt to make it visible to everyone that Saint Mary's is a Catholic college? We have an advantage over students attending state schools who, exposed to many religious backrounds, must take the initiative in religious obser­
vance. 
Whatever the case may be, it's already Holy Week, and Easter break begins Friday (Wednesday for some), right? Maybe not. Holy Week in the Church leads up to a 
new beginning on Easter Sunday. Afterall, Campus Min­istry invites us to participate in the liturgy every day of the year all year long. And Volunteer Services provides 
referrals and placement to students everyday, not just during these past forty. 
Just as the Church views this time of year as a new beginning, we might see this time as a chance to begin 
-to get involved in one of the many ways offer ed campus wide. 
The Observer 

Design Editor.........................)P Keyes-A.A. Design Assistant................ Pete White-PM Typesetters .............................. Reggie, B WD News Editor............................................ Dave Copy Editor............................................. Kath Features Layout ................................... Sarah Editorials Layout................................ Ubby Sports Copy Editor............................... Mike ND Day Editor....................................... Mike Typist~ .................................................... Ubby Ad Design................................................... Bill Pbotograpb<!1' .......................................... Paul Guest Appearances ................ S. Chucker's tunes, Old Mil, Hi Terry, Pete's.Joanne Hanrahan'. JP's· Maria, Par3, the single 
THANKS BR. KEN and ALI. THOSE AT THE HOLY CROSS NOVITIATE IN CASCADE COLORADO FROM PETE, JP, AND MIKE. YOU GUYS ARE GREAT! 
"Open the Pod !lay door, HAL" "I'm sorry, Dave, hut I can't do that" 
2001 
The Observer tUSPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS publiShed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
The Observer 1S a me•nber of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
'I.CU<E LWtiE.•\Ifll\.f liH"-1'\ 

CUIIVHIJNIICAilllfUN ~.....,__(JllriEAilli(IC 
~t~()~IUA\,/ lt=IIIL~t ~~112111~~ 1 
March 28 
Innocence Unprotected (19681 Dusan Makavevev. Yugos1a"1a. color 75 m1n Dusan (Montenegro) Makaveyev's w1tty med1lnl10n on nationhOod and freedom. the f1tm IS a three-nng clfcus Jf old newsreels. contemporary matenal and footage from the flfst Croat1an talkie Introducing Innocence Unarotected are two recent Amencan collage f1lms Mongo1o1d by Bruce Conner (with mus1c by Devo) and Franklllm by Frank Morris 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
........---lr~u ~ 11_,(31ti lr---$-z._._o_o_, 
monday Night I 
Special 1 
I

Ladies Night 
8-3 

"ffiix Dtink Special" (Buy 1Dtink-Get 2nd 1Fot 254) ... I**** Hot Cheese Nachos 50c***** I .. I
I 
I 

,._U.:t.R!l!RISR!ti~. ·.--.....~xw.:~-1 

The Observer Monday, March 28, 1983-page 3 
Philosopher Weiss 


Lecturer advocates liberal studies 
By CHUCK KRILL 
StaffReporter 
"An education is no education un­less it is liberal," and it must impart more than a knowledge of humanities and science, according to noted philosopher Paul Weiss. 
Weiss' speech Friday, "The Luring Night," concluded his three lecture series. Weiss' talks inaugurated an annual lecture series sponsored by the Program of Liberal Studies to study the role ofliberal education in higher education. 
Weiss, who holds the Heffer Professorship of Philosophy at the Catholic University of America, dis­cussed the purpose of science in society. Science attempts to gain "a knowledge of what holds regardless of milieu, state, privacy, myths, con­victions, hopes and fears," he said. 
This scientific knowledge does not explain all aspects oflife, accord-
Discrepancies cause changes on hall ballots 
By ANNE MONASTYRSKI Potter. SaintMary's Editor International Peace Day is Sunday. May 1st, announced Beth Tighe, vice 
All three tickets will be on the bal-president for academic affairs. Tighe lots in today's re-election of reported a campus-wide outdoor McCandless hall officers at Saint Mass is planned. 
tells all that must be said." 
The incompleteness ofeach view has lead Weiss to conclude that a more fundamental view exists. Liberal education must reflect that both science and the humanities are "limited specializations of what is more basic than either," he said. 
This fundamental view includes both scientific and personal realms but also what lies outside of them, according to Weiss. 
"We can and we do have a grasp of something more," he remarked to a responsive audience in the Memorial Library Lounge. 
He cited metaphysics as a branch of learning that helps man discover fundamental knowledge, and he em­phasized its importance in liberal education. 
"Liberal education is a practical exhibition of the metaphysical con­tention that neither the humanities nor the sciences (or any other area of learning) can rightly be set above the others," said Weiss. 
Weiss refers to the area outside human knowledge as "the luring night." The night is a "primal, radi­cally inexpressible ultimate," simul­taneously beneficial and dangerous to man. 
"By turning what we create into a controlled, specialized form of the luring night that we initially face, we can confirm that night as essentially quiet and clear," he remarked. 
Mary's because of student com­
plaints that some were refused bal­
lots in the first election, said 

Election Commissioner Monica ' · Gugle at Saint Mary's Board of 
Goverance meeting last night. 
Voting will be in LeMans lobby 
from 7:30 a.m.-6 p.m. 
New board members assumed 
their posts as President Kathleen 
Murphy turned over her position as 
student body president to president­
elect Elaine Hoctor, who had served 
as vice president ofStudent Affairs. 
Hoctor announced the formation 
ofa programming committee to plan 
campus events. The committee is 
comprised of members of the 1983­
84 Board of Goverance Commis­
sioners. The committee will be 
chaired by the vice-president ofStu­
dent Affairs. 
The commissioners on the 
programming committee include all 
hall and class vice-presidents, Enter­
tainment Commissioner Lisa Fitt, 
Movies Commissioner Kathi 
Hartweger, Speakers Commissioner 
Mary Bonich, Traditional Events 
Commissioner Mary Sue Dunn, a 
Christian life commissioner; a 
secretary, and Treasurer Mary Ann 
• • . Leahy 
continuedfrom page 1 
said the delegates decided to form a steering committee to study the formation of this network. He noted that the statement was passed "near­unanimously." ' 
At a press conference before his speech, Leahy ridiculed Reagan's proposal to develop high­technology defense systems. 
"To think we could develop aStar Wars defense system which will make us immune from nuclear at­tack -it's just not in the cards in this decade or the next," Leahy said. 
A member of the Senate Ap­propriations Committee, Leahy criticized continued funding of detense projects including the M-1 tank, the Bradlev personnel carrier. and the B-1 bomber, which he called "the Flying Edsel." 
"Reagan does the country a great disservice by getting on television and telling people that we are an in­ferior nation when we are not. This only tempts the Soviets and misleads our allies-and does absolutely no­thing for the security ofthis great na­tion," Leahy remarked. 
WED. 
MAR., 30th thru SUN. 
Apr., 3rd 

Notre Dame ACC 
7Public Shows Thurs., Fri. 8p.m. Sat., Noon, 4&8p.m. Sun., 2p.m. &6p.m. 
Wed., Teachers' Credit Union Night No Public Sole MORE 
CHAMPIONS ON PRICE DISCOUNT SHOW '~:~,~;· ICE THAN ANY OTHER SHOW! Check at Hook's Stores ~1 
PRICESs IYOU'Ll KNOW US BY NAME BUT THE SHOW'S NO~!H£ SAM'E!J 1 
$S.SO Notre Dame & Saint Mary's $7.so students 1fz price for the $8.50 following shows: 
Thurs. 8 PM-Fri. 8 PM Sat. 12 noon-Sun. 6 PM Tickets at A.C.C. Box Office 9 AM to5 PM 
Time For Just One More Ballroom Dance Class Before Summer Break 
The Ballroom Dance classes at ~aint Mary's have been very popular. 
Wednesday, March 30, will be the first lesson ofa five week ballroom dance class that will be will be held on Saint Mary's campus in the Regina Hal/lounge basement from 8:30p.m. to 10:00 p.m. 
This class will be taught by Ray Sexton from Indianapolis and the total cost is only $25 for five weeks. Q 
Sign up now in the o Saint Mary's Student Activities Office 0 
· 284-4561 
~~:tl 
THIS OFFER IS LIMITED TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS ONLY. 


the Observer/Paul Cifardli 

james Ross, a professor ofphilosophy at the University ofPenn­sylvania, currentzy on leave at Cambridge University, discussed the gradual growth ofspirituali~y in human evolution Saturdav morning in the Centerfor Continuing Education. . 
Live for God and His People as a ... 



Capuchin 

a what? 
Capuchin Franciscans are a religious 
fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in 
the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's 

world. Join us in promoting peace, education, and justice--in ghettoes... in jails ... ih I soup k1tchens.. in panshes... in halfwaj) houses .. on radio and TV Join us in working with and for the advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, native Americans and people of the --_:rd World in Central America. Check out whe.her being a Capuchin, comm1tted to living for God and his people, in the spirit of Francis, is for you. No obligation. Write today for more liiiill information. 
....................... Clip and Mail Today! . Father John Holly, OFM Capuchin, 1820 Mt. Elliott Avenue. Detroit, M! 48207 Yes, send me information about the Capuchin way of life 
~>lame-·_ Age ____ 
Cnllege ___ 
__Address 

C1ty -------State ________ Zip . 

Ritter Midwest (Division of Sybron) 
Formerly American Hospital Supply Corp. 
•Will 
be on campus April14 · 15 to inter· view accounting majors for a staff accountant trainee position. 

• 
The training program is 6 months long. 

• 
The VP Controller, Elizabeth York, will be conducting the interviews. 

• 
The position will be located in the General Office Facility in Des Plaines, Ill (a western suburb of Chicago). 

•Literature 
is available in the Placement Office. 

•We 
encourage qualified minorities and women to apply. (EOE/AAE) 


ing to Weiss. He cited the opposition between the human observation that the sun revolves around the earth and the scienrific observation 

, 
j 

The Observer Monday, March 28, 1983 -page 4 
'We will win' 

Walesa speaks to Mass~crowd 

Easter Break ..... Daily Rental *Rates starting at $16.99 available March 30 
These ratt.>s art> non-discountablE.'. 
Cars must be returned to renting location. 

t 
GDANSK, Poland (AP) -Speak­ing near the birthplace of his now-outlawed Solidarity union and flashing the victory sign, labor leader Lech Walesa told about 600 cheering supporters yesterday that "The time will come when we will win." 
It was the largest public gathering to hear Wale sa speak since he was released last November following 11 months of martial law intern­ment. 
Some people . in the crowd shouted, "Long live Leszek!" and a 12-year-old boy gave Walesa a pet turtle, saying: "It's all that I have, what I love." 
gained strength and emerged in 1980 as the only union in the Soviet bloc independent of Communist Party control. 
Walesa's last speech was to a crowd of500 who came to welcome him back to his Gdansk apartment when he was released from intern­ment. Since then, Walesa apparently has been trying to regain some ofthe influence he commanded during the 16 months he led Solidarity. 
At first, he avoided public ap­pearances, but recently attended court hearings for Solidarity activists charged with violating martial law, imposed Dec. 13, 1981, and suspended for the most part last 
The former union chief leader • Dec. 31. One ofthose on trial is Anna then raised his hand in a v-for-Walentynowicz, a labor firebrand victory salute and said, "The time whose dismissal from the Gdansk will come when we will win." shipyards sparked the strikes that 
The eight words were his only gave rise to Solidarity. remarks to the crowd, which The union was suspended under gathered shortly after a Palm Sunday martial law and outlawed last Oct. 8. Mass in St. Brygida's, the parish for Walesa said in mid-March that workers at the I.enin shipyards. It Solidarity supporters must "choose 
The Observer/Paul Citarelli was in the shipyards that Solidarity more effective and more visible means to demonstrate that we are still here and that we will not giv.e up." 
For example, Walesa has sug­gested, Poles could swear off state­produced alcohol and brew their 
own. 
The Communist Party daily of Gdansk charged Saturday that Walesa finds it "difficult to come to terms with his loss of popularity" and wants publicity to stay "at the top ofworld press reports." 
During the Roman Catholic Mass at St. Brygida's, the Rev. Henryk Jankowski, the former Solidarity chaplain, prayed for the release of union activists imprisoned or await­ing trial. 
Jankowski read the names of 102 prisoners from the Gdansk area, on the Baltic coast. 
On the first day of the Roman Catholic Holy Week, culminating next Sunday with Easter, Jankowski said in his sermon: "Let us hope ... there will be the day of victory for us." 

APPl~CAT U]~S ~1]1\1 AUA~lABlE fiJR All officer positions on Joint Engineering Council Pick up in Dean's office Return forms by 3 pm Tues., March 29  

Your resume should also be special. A professionally typeset resume is important because it shows you in your best light. We are typesetting professionals and can help you look your best.af~~nt Bring this ad with you for 10% OFF on the typesetting of your resume. Offer expires"'ma-c.;-. May 31, 1983. Offer good only for typesetting.TheNowPrinters.. 247 Dixieway North South Bend, IN 46637 219-277-3355  

Two students analyze an art piece at the Senior Art Com­prehensive Projects at Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's over the 
Marcell DuBois 
weekend. The final projects are required for graduation. 


Better Judeo-Christian link sought 
ByTOMPACE 
News Staff 
To fully understand the relation­ship between theJewish people and God, we must allow ourselves to view this link from a Jewish perspective, according to Marcell DuBois, who spoke last night in the Library auditorium. 
"There is no platonic Jew,"said DuBois, the chairman of the philosophy department at Hebrew University. DuBois maintained that we cannot hope to understand the essence of the Jewish religion from our traditionally, platonic Catholic viewpoint. 
According to DuBois, there is a series of reasons for the divergence between the traditional perspectives of the two faiths. The 
c • • • •
• 

ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
LaFortune Little Theatre 7:00PM Tuesday March 29 





A4·1~15 1r.~~STEDIN
,.-'v 
• 
apnl ' HELPING TO RUN INDIVIDUAL EVENTS???? 
essential difference is racial. "You are a Jew, or you are not," said DuBois, in pointing out the fact that God's chosen people are unified not merely by belief, but by blood. 
This inherent brotherhood allows the jewish people a much more con­crete foundation for interpretation of the Bible, affirmed DuBois. The chosen people lived in the chosen land. As a result, "every son oflsrael becomes a contemporary of his forefathers," said DuBois . 
The Jews have been invited to lis­ten to the word of God, and they must remember. From memory will come hope, asserted DuBois. These are the mainstays of theJewish faith, in DuBois' eyes. 
In our effort to come to a deeper understanding of the fundamentals of the Jewish faith, we need to realize that "Jews don't analyze life; they simply live," according to what has been handed down to them. 
College Night March 29, 1983 
3 p.m. to ~ p.m. Precision Haircut &Style -Only $7 Terrific campus cuts at super savings with 
student I.D. Free gifts &refreshments. 

R9GIS HAIRSTYLISTS 
University Park Mall · 272·1168 
·~·:ro;::.­



Editorials 
Monday, March 28, 1983 -page 5 
The strength and courage to disobey 
From childhood, we are taught to respect order. How then is a Christian to respond to form the spirit of his people and the political The necessary ingredient to a disobedient is law and order, to believe in the ideals of the mandate of faith amidst the duties of fabric ofhis nation. Martin Luther King whose courage of grand proportion. This courage democratic government as applied to our citizenship? Truly, our allegiance is with the letter from the Birmingham jail to the white comes only from the willingness to risk the society and generally to proceed as placidly as carpenter from Galilee and his ministry of clergy critics of his disobedience reflects the comfort of our lives and travel the Passover possible, not rocking the boat along the way. confrontation to the powers of earth. fearlessness of Paul of Tarsus, translated road to Jerusalem. It is not, however, a We are also taught as Christians that a man Frighteningly, our call is to the same con­Gandhian tactics to the American scene. More courage that comes easily. I participated in an once lived a quite radical life, preaching peace frontation. recently, Dorothy Day, of the Catholic act of civil disobedience on Good Friday last The thought of civil disobedience is Worker Movement who died in 1980, led the year at a nuclear weapons research center. repulsive to some. Mere mention of the term call to peace in Vietnam by organizing draft Though I crossed the police line, I withdrewJoseph M. Cosgrove evokes images ofbomb throwing students at a card burnings and was arrested at age 72 at a when my fellow activists were arrested. My campus rally or members of the Weather un­farmworker protest. One must not forget the ~·complicity in the fine tradition of Peter the Guest Columnist derground in guerrilla fatigues. These images perennial Catholic prison apostle, Dan Ber-reluctant apostle was perhaps wise given my ignore the root of civil disobedience which rigan, SJ, whose countless arrests for peact: ac-status in the legal profession; it was however a truly is non-violence. Disobedience in this tivism have put him in the forefront of most distressing affrontery to my years of 
and love, healing the sick, at times in violation vein presupposes a loving respect for those controversy, nor the recent addition to the pacifist and resistance bravado. On that day of ofthe law. For his transgressions, this man was confronted and seeks only to provide for them ranks of the disobedient, Archbishop death, I was incarcerated in fear, hostage to arrested, tried, convicted and executed all in the oft missing connection between their faith Raymond Hunthausen who has refused to pay the coward within. conjunction with the secular and religious and the actions of their lives. Civil dis­one-halfofhis federal income tax as protest to norms of his society. The image is haunting: obedience is thus prophetic in its dramatic our nuclear posture. These, and others like The strength to disobey is a bitter strength Jesus Christ, Son of God, Messiah; Jesus of witness to ultimate truths and the vul­them, are not social deviants. Their actions indeed. It flows from the power to forgive the Nazareth, scofflaw, felon, imprisoned and ex­nerability it imposes on its participants. have been based on the deepest reflections of adultress, to challenge the Pharisee, to carry a ecuted. A cursory glance at the prominent dis­their souls and are rooted in the fundamental cross. But it is a strength freely given to those 
It goes against our grain to disrupt the social obedients in recent history reveals an im­precepts ofthe gospel. They live their lives, as who have faith in empty tombs, to those able order, but we are confronted by our God­pressive guest list. In India, Gandhi used the Dan Berrigan said of Dorothy Day, as though to respond to the call ;,tnd stand broken and incarnate and his gospel of challenge to that power ofSatyagraha or "truth force" to trans-the Truth were true. bound before the Pilate ofour day. 
\ 
I 

Using powerfor the Church 
"What's the difference between Father He~· burgh and God?" the riddle asks. This joke i~ intended to poke fun at Hesburgh's om· nipotence and ubiquity, qualities which fe,, mortals (let alone university presidents) sup posedly have. 
Keith Picher Short of Profundity 
From our first visit to the campus until th,· day of graduation, the myth that Hesburgh spends too much time away from Notre Danll· bombards us continuously. At the root of tha• judgement are two more ridiculous belief, 
( I ) religious should not have the kind of in tluence and political power that Heshurgl1 has, and (2) the needs of Notre Dame arc more important than the needs of the out~idt· world. 
Many Catholics are repelled by the mixing of worldly power and religion. Perhaps th•' stems from their conception of the earl\ Church, where Jesus chose simple and unnl ucated men and women to disperse ha' message. But, like it or not, times haYc changed. We no longer live in the time of the early Church. Oursociety, for better or worse. has become incredibly complex. 
Realizing this, Hesburgh openly advocates seeking power for the sake of the Church. Young men and women who plan to become doctors, lawyers, and politicians have an im· portant role in reflecting their faith in the real world of politics, wheeling, and dealing. While we praise the Mother Theresas who show their love, they directly affect only a few people. We should respect just as strongly those who fight to change the unjust laws and means of subjugation so widespread in our world. 
The stereotypical image of the priesthood as a passive non-rabble-rousing vocation also worsens the misunderstanding of Hesburgh's very active lifestyle. Television and media in general paint a picture of the priest as a quiet, unassertive, lazy, and cold being. Priests are still seen by many as effeminate people who opt for the priestly vocation because the\' could never do anything else. When Hesburgh or any other priest lives a life contrary to this image, discord sounds in the brain. Rather than invalidate their stereotype, many choose 
to criticize the individuals who fall short of the image. 
When religious are seen less as exalted kings and queens upon thrones and more as everyday people whose calling is different from (but not superior to) that of the lain·. perhaps our misguided opinions will end. Who would object to Hesburgh's lifestyle if he were a corporate president, and not a priest' His "fault" is only in realizing that ours is a world influenced primarily by powerful men. 
Many argue that Hesburgh, since he is the president of the University, should stick around campus more and forget about what he does in his time away (i.e. avoid name dropping.) Clearly he does not agree. When The Observer began to print his daily travel plans, he objected not because he felt his time was wrongly spent, but because others criticize him unjustly. Wanting Fr. Ted to stay around campus (when the outside world clearly wants and needs his expertise) is only a sign ofhow selfish and provincial an attitude we have toward Notre Dame and ourselves. 

For those who accuse him of name drop­ping, it is more our insensitivity to his lifestyle than a case of egocentricity. Hesburgh cer­tainly feels that the issues of world hunger, economic justice, and nuclear arms reduction are extremely important. By accusing him of name dropping and egocentricity we judge our concerns. goals, and values to be more im­portant than his. 
When we open our ears and listen, we'll realize that they're not. 
P. 0. BoxQ  
Female fellows? DearEditor: After reading The Observer article on the Senior Fellow elections, I sat down and tried to figure out what had changed at Notre Dame since the time when the University started to accept women. I had heard "rumors" that the Administration dis­criminates against women, that the faculty discriminates against women when it comes to granting tenure, and that quite a few male students at Notre Dame would prefer to see all female students at Saint Mary's. I had not heard, however, that a large part of the stu­dent body, that is, the whole class of 1983, would discriminate so plainly against women, until I read it in black and white. Among the whole Notre Dame com­munity there is obviously not a single female member "who has contributed to the senior class and who embodies the values and ideals of that class." I gather this from the fact that there is not one woman among the nine persons nominated for the Senior Fel· low Award. By no means do I want toques­ tion the merits of the nominated people. the nine nominees. who are experienced in But, to see only one or two women among guiding students and in resolving doubts and nine nominees would make me furious; to questions will come and tell me that I got it see none at all can only make me sad. all wrong, and show me where my faulty What makes me even sadder, is the fact conclusions lie. that the class of 1983 does not only consist Svlvia S. Mayr of men. Men would not be expected to see their values and ideals embodied in a woman. Or would they? How about all the Unsung heroes women, however, who spent four wonder­ful years at Nurre Dame, trying to enrich DearEditor: their lives, to broaden their views, and to in­At the risk of competing with the Wallie· crease their tolerance? Do they see their hinsky Book ofLists, I'd like to put forth my values and ideals embodied only in men? own roster of those persons significant to Ifthis is the case, the question arises, "Are the Notre Dame community. As I look about there no great, loving, devoted women at this place, I'm struck by the fact that Notre Notre Dame?'' And if not, why did this in­Dame is special due to the efforts of those stitution fail to attract or keep such great, uncommon folks who do their jobs well, and loving, and devoted women? Or could it be then some. that it did not even try? Obviously, a notable institution functions No, I would rather want to believe the well because of the efforts of hundreds of other rumor than that a lot of female Notre good people, albeit the fact that "awards" of Dame students do not mind being regarded one type or another are visited on but a few. as a necessary, but decorative and entertain· Nonetheless, a few stand out, at least in my ing, evil. mind. Since this, however, is also an extremely Here tor posterity (and possibly debate) is depressing thing to believe, I hope that one of the list ofSignificantPeople atNotreDame:  Dean of Students. James Roemer -this large man with the boisterous laugh has one of the most difficult jobs here. The "General" discharges his task with enor­mous sensitivity and concern. If he had a motto, it would be "in loco parentis, with affection and measured judgment." Snite Museum Director, Dean Porter -a man of hyper energy, in love with his work, who has brought dedication and passion to the visual arts and thereby to the community at large. Professor James Carberry -this courtly teacher of Chemical Engineering transmits to his students the necessity of grounding their education in the liberal arts, as well as the sciences. His appreciation for, and knowledge of, art and music, history, politics, and literature enlarges his presence as a Renaissance man. Obviously, there are others. Add to the list as you see fit, but take time to pause oc­casionally and say "thanks, you make being here something special." ]. D'Arcy Chisholm  


• 

Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of eithe! institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, .and the free expression ofvaryingopinionson 01mpus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219)239-5303 
NewsEditor..............................Bob Vonderheide
Editorial Board 

News Editor.................................Mark Worscheh 
Editor-in-Cbief............................David Dziedzic Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe Depart:nlent Managers ExecutiveEditor..............................Paul McGinn Production/Graphics...........Joseph Musumeci BusinessManager.............. -....... Daniel O'Hare SportsEditor .............................Michael Riccardi Controller............................................Alex Szilvas SaintMary'sEditor...............Anne Monastyrski AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Photo Editor.......................................Scott Bower SystemsManager...........................Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3, 1966 

-------~~~-----~------~--~------~~--~~---------------------­
,... 
" •• f 
. ' 
:;j 
~ l 
.J 
:I I 
I 
.. .I, 
., ~, 


~Stt0 W C fi'-iiiSiiiiiE~----iiiiiiMondiiiiiiay,
Maiiiiiirch28iiiiii,
1983 iiiiiipageiiiiii6 
FQscino.ting feQtS 
T
hree o'clock in the morning, and you've finally finished the rough draft ofyour seven-page paper. You walk quietly into your room so as not to wake your roommate, but as far as you can tell, the loft is empty. Still out at the bars, you surmise. 
You sit at your desk, flick on the desk lamp, and turn on the typewriter. It buzzes into life and hums patiently. On the floor at your feet you feel a bundle ofclothes which you kick conveniently toward the wall:Nowyou're ready to type, and your fingers tap away slowly. The time wears on and on, and you stop for a moment to glance at the clock on the window sill above your desk ... 
You must have accidentally hit the t carriage return button because that's precisely what the typewriter has done, and you reach out to correct the matter, but as you do, the typewriter begins to type. 
ffiatc Ramitez 

featutes 
On its own. 

And as the letters clack onto the paper and become words, wide­eyed, you read them, 
"We killed your roommate." 
You sit in silence and stare at the message, and you try to figure out how in the world your buddies rigged the typewriter to do this sort of thing. It must be a joke, but still you can't help but feel a little bit nervous. Finallyyou decide to pull·out the liquid paper to rectify the situation, wondering just where your roommate is at this time of night. 
Suddenly your alarm goes off, and you realize that the radio is on, and now the typewriter is typing again ... 
underyour desk. This isn't funny anymore, you say to yourself You silence your alarm clock, and happen to catch a glimpse ofa bundle ofclothes in the corner, the bundle ofclothes which you thought was under your desk, at your feet. 
Now it is too quiet. The radio is no longer on, and all you can hear is your thumping heart and the hum of the typewriter. Your palms are sweating, and your feet are frozen in place, because if it wasn't that bundle ofclothes that you kicked clumsily against the wall and still happens to be clinging on to your toes, then what was it ...? 
Fear is something I've wanted to write about tor a whtle but JUSt 
haven't tried. I guess I was afraid. 
Fear is an emotion that has been experienced since the beginning of time, ever since Eve realized that Adam was coming over and she didn't have a thing to wear. It has fascinated people in many lines of work, everyone from psychologists to authors to movie directors. In my experience I have found that people react to it in various ways._ Some like to be scared, while others hate it and are just a bundle of clothes _ er, I mean nerves, when it comes to being frightened. 
Personallv I am not afraid to admit that "The Shining," "Salem's Lot," and "N·i~ht Shift" are among my favorite books, while "Dressed to Kill" and "Halloween" are two of my favorite movtes. I watch every single rerun of"Night Gallery" and was furious when "The Night Stalker" was cancelled. 
People are frightened by different things, and this led to the naming ofall sorts ofphobias. Claustrophobia and agoraphobia may be the most well-known, however, the Guinness Book ofEssential Facts (upon which I just happened one day) listed more phobias than I ever knew existed. 
Ifyou're ever at a party and find yourselfin need ofa topic ofcon­
versation, just drop a few of these phobias into the discussion: 
Clinophobia: the fear ofgoing to bed. 
Sinophobia: the fear ofChinese things. 
Terdekophobia: the fear of the number 13. 
Mastigophobia: the fear offlogging. 
Odontophobia: the fear ofteeth. 
Parthenophobia: the fear ofyoung girls. 
Coprophobia: the fear offeces. 
Inclusion ofthese phobias in your conversation will be sure to win you much attention and many lifelong friends. 
Although the Guinness Book ofEssential Facts listed about two hundred phobias (ofwhich approximately one hundred and ninety I never had heard), it left out some phobias which I have found relevant to my life and the livesofothers around me. Consequently, I have taken the liberty of naming these phobias appropriately: 
Rivetophobia: the fear ofhaving to listen to AC/DC, Van Halen, and Billy Squier for any period of time. 
DoubleEmilophobia: T self-explanatory. 
Chunkaphobia: the fear ofbiting into somethingother than veal in your dining hall "veal." Oakophobia: the fear that the Oak Room will cease to exist. Goodbyemyfriendsophobia: prevalent among juniors, this is the fear ofbeing lotteried offcampus. 
SouthBendophobia: the fear that it will snow on a sunny day. 
Hoosierophobia: again, self-explanatory. 
We'vestillgotashotattheNITophobia: the fear ofhaving a subpar basketball season. 
The list could go on and on. So as I sit here in the back office, typing my column, I decide that it's time to end. Besides, it's getting a little hot in here, a little uncomfortable ...that roach that keeps crawling around is really bothering me. How I'd like to pluck his scrawny little legs off and light a match and ... 
Here comes someone now. They're going to screw up my plans to kill that roach. Well, I'll fiX them. That Exacto knife sticking out of the drawer is shining awfully brightly ... 



Abiogenesis: Hatmony, 
' ' A biogenesis!" shouted the enthusiastic crowd 
nsaturday night at Washington Hall. It was the 
magic word for pulling scarves out ofan empty box and 
dances out onto an empty stage. The eveningwas nicely 
paced; the dancers worked well together; and stylistic 
approaches to choreography were harmonious. 
The concert opened with a delightful three-section 
structured improvisation entitled "conditionally: 
Human." The first section presented three dancers on 
stage in a group shape while others came from the 
audience adding on and shouting, "that's not right." 
I 

Holly Seatet 

dance teview 
This section ended as dancer-director Angela Adamson quietly stated, "It never is." The section worked with couples and the third with the word, "waiting" as an audience memberwhispered, "This piece is vintage An­gela." 
Abiogenesis' future director, Mitch Werner next presented his, "Zero Bars" which effectively wove flourescent feet and hands into wonderous shapes to 

music by Gary Numan. Werner used the general stage 
space and its different levels ingeniously, even though 
he was limited by lighting sources allowing for the 
flourescent look. 
The third dance, "Run through the Jungle," by Doug Maihaser did not fulfill its potential as a work of art. It lacked direction on the part ofthe choreographer, hence his statement was indistinct. The music by Credence Clearwater Revival was repetitive and over­powered any movement structure that might have evolved. The crawling entrance and exit were effective with a jungle projected on the backdrop, but how and why the dancers stood up was unclear. An upstage focus effectively highlighted dancers who were looking into the audience. Two faces come to mind, that ofStephen Blaha, and Normajohnson. 
"Critters" or return ofthe Bugswas the fourth dance. Instead ofemploying the usualJohn Cage as a sound source, the dancers resorted to their own vocal talents adding a touch ofhumor to the piece. However, the dance was in danger of being too cute. Hopefully Bugs will stay in Abiogenesis' repertory so that we may watch it evolve over the years. 




A'smutfy good' extrnvng 
T
he smurfs are coming! The smurfs are coming! When Ice Capades' all new var;ety revue, "Hello World, Hello," opens this Wednesday at the Athletic and Con­vocation Center the smurfs will make their first-ever live ap­pearance, in the fun-filled produc­tion, "Smurfs Alive!" 
In addition to Papa Smurf, Smurfette, and the rest of the gang, humans provide comicality in this year's extravaganza through feats of juggling, tumbling, bicycle riding and improvisation on ice. Kicking off the barrage ofcomedy is the new funnyman team of British-born Mike Course and Australian David Sadleir . Ice·clownjean-Pierre Romano and his unpredictable bicycles adds to the frolics. 
Possibly the most amazing ofall is 14 year-old David Lee. Skating and juggling since he was three, Lee sends scarves, rings and tennis rac­quets soaring, in the best exhibit of juggling talents ever performed by a child star. 
Comedy is far from the Ice Capades only enticement. World Champion and Olympic Bronze Smith. to the mysterious land ofBaghdad in Medalist, Charlie Tickner and U.S. 

Intermixed in this spellbinding "Flight to Kismet" with the beauti­National Silver Medalist, Lisa-Marie 
melange ofathletics and showman­fully luminescent "flying ballet." A Allen highlight the performance. 
ship is a maze ofpageantry produc­nostalgic look at the star-spangledAlso featured are the U.S. Profes­tion numbers which make a music ofAmerica is taken in "A Slice 
sional Pair Champions, Chris Har­

globetrotting trip to the bright lights ofApple Pie." The spirit-filled croon­rison and Lisa Carey, and another 
and exciting sounds of New York in. ings ofThe Blues in "That'sJazz" are 


The Observer Features Section 
but unfulfilled potential 

The fifth "Untitled" piece by Adamson was a very powerul theatre piece. I was amazed by the vocal ar­ticulat!on oftt,;; uanc:~i·-actor~. i1oth ·;olo and i;horus preSC':ntatio~~ were obviously well rehearsed. The con­tent ~fthe dance, "a response to the urban plunge ...a 48 hour immersion in city life", was a bit general. 
The next piece, also by Adamson, "Here's looking at you," lost its bubble halfway through the dance. Music by Blondie was iterative and the choreography had gone flat by the end. The costumes from the Cassidy collection were stunning and Adamson appeared par­ticularly striking in her period hair style ad blue dress. 
"The Lone Rhinoceros" danced and choreographed by Adamson music by Adrien Belew, was a beautiful solo executed center under a ofI to 
I 
I 
The ice glitters in the fabulous style
.t 1., j ofLas Vegas in the lavish finale, "Viva 
Vegas, Viva." 

Performances are Wednesday, March 30 through Sunday, April 3, ! with evening shows Wednesday, Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. Satur­day performances will be presented
.. 
( at noon, 4 p.m. and an evening show at 8 p.m. The final two performances will be held on Sunday at 2 and 6 p.m. Ticket prices are S5.50, $7.50 and S8.50. Special youth and senior citizen discounts are available for select performances. Tickets can be purchased at the A.C. C. box office, Robertson's, Sears, The Elkhart Truth. St. joseph Bank (Main Office), JR.'s Music Shop and World 
Records. 

Immediately following the eve­ning performance on Friday, April 1 the Ice Capades will be conducting auditions in search of talented skaters in the A.C.C. Prospective skaters must be at least 18 years of age or accompanied by a parent or 
guardian. In addition to figure and freestyle skating, appear:"v:e and en­thusiasm, as well as a background in hallet and/or modern dance are im­pc ~tant. If accepted, skaters must be free to travel on tour. 
So, either to view or to audition for the Ice Capades, be sure to come on out for a smurfy good time1 
music by Adrien Belew. Not havigstudied rhinos, I lack 
any expertice on the animal. Nevertheless the dance 
seemed somewhat more delicate in quality than I have 
witnessed in the zoos. 
The eighth piece "Mostly Jazz", music by Billy Joel, 
demonstrated interesting uses of rondo form and level 
changes by dancer-choreographer Kathy Wolter. It 
lacked, however, the guts of jazz. 
Music by Donna Summer accompanied the ninth dance, "State oflndependence." Choreographed by Phyllis Washington, the dance possessed much un­realized potential. I am unsure as to why some dancers wore costumes and others remained in basic black. 
Adamson's last performance, "My punk pieces" was presented as three seperate dances: "My Dream, On The Screen;" "The Sadomastic Tango;" and "Contact, or lack there of" The first dance effectively incorporated a video presentation by Eileen O'Meara into the dance. Five framed mylar strips hung upstage, and were used as mirrors with lights infront, oras T.V. screen-like images with lights behind. Dancers in black with torn white T­shirts, punk make-up and sunglasses moved around the stage. The music by Blondie, and the content of ~he 
video were a~r~priate.jne o;;;:c;;nilc.iance, aiangG, aid ~~i: demonstt-P.te a ~~dvmastic quality. Not enough risk was taken by the dancers. The last dance humorously and tragically presented people attempting to touch each other with their index fingers, and a final dash 
toward the audience. 

This, the final concert of the year for Abiogenesis proved to be an exciting one as well as one that es­tablished a direction for the company. The technical crew deserves a big hand for their support and Angela Adamson, founder and director since 1980, deserves an ovation for all ofher work, which will now be handed over to the new director, Mitch Werner. Best ofluck to the company and especially to Angela Adamson who is offto New York. 
T
here is no need to go all the way to Chicago for good 
rock music. There is plenty of musical talent right 
under our noses and WSND has managed to bring it out 
of the shadows and onto the radio with its new show, 
"The Music Mill," which premiers tonight. 
Tune into hosts Robin Brown and David Magana and listen to Notre Dame's own Par 3. Tonight on AM64 at 11 p.m. and tomorrow night after the midnight news on 88.9FM, Brown and Magana interview Tim and}. P. Keyes and Scott O'Grady. A concert by the group fol­lows. 
"The Music Mill" hopes to become a regular in the WSND program log, so ~et your dial for some home­grown music. 
Monday, March 28, 1983-page 7 
Closed on mondays 
T
wenty hours ago, I sat down to write. N?w, I have given u~ th~ at­
tempt to write well and am merely hopmg to fulfill an obhgatwn. This month (perhaps it's the entire year) has been like that for me. A brief, but passionate romance collapsed entirely. Without passion to fill my time, I started drinking too much and 
driving too fast, sometimes mixing the two. As a result, I picked up one speeding ticket; one warning for running a stop sign (on which occasion I could just as easily have been charged with speeding and driving under the influence); and one right front fender, like some ill-fated romance, collapsed entirely. 
I decided to stop driving for a while. The fact that my car did not run influenced my decision somewhat. As a result, l was forced to do most of my drinking at home. As 
Bruce Oakley 
out on a limb 

some fri~n.ds allf! !wer-: attempting to destroy IJI_jJiving !'Gum one " night·whiie drinking at hoille, we succeeded instead in destroying my eyeglasses. Idecided to stop drinking for a while. The fact that my car and my glasses were unusable influenced my decision somewhat. 
Without alcohol, my thoughts would presumably be less clouded and generally happier. Without a car, I would presumably get more exercise, improving the flow ofoxygen-carrying blood to the brain, thus helping me think more clearly and feel better. 
It's not working out that way. 
I've found that if I spend 20 minutes walking somewhere, the doors will usually be locked and I will not have the key. I will not be able to find anyone who does have the key. 
IfI do find an unlocked door, it will be to a place I had hoped would be secluded, and I will find dozens ofpeople there. They will all want my help in some project that will consume hours ofmy time and keep me from the work I had intended to do in the first place. 
The extra oxygen the exertion ofwalking sends to the brain mere­ly helps me gain a profound understanding offrustration. 
I've also found that, when I'm not drinking, such things as sports announcers and television commercials are far less tolerable. When I'm drinking, I can throw empty beer cans at the television. When I'm not drinking, about the best projectile I can tlnd is a dirty sock. 
Tossing a dirty sock at a man singing to a paper towel is just not the same as lobbing the king ofbeer cans at him. Besides, without my glasses, I often hit the stereo by mistake. A dirty sock at 45 rpm is not a pretty sound. 
I thought oftrying to change my luck by getting away for a while during spring break. I imagined an eastward swing to visit my sister (perhaps starting a brief, but passionate romance with one of her friends) in Washington, D.C., but I finally decided to stay home. The fact that mv car didn't run influenced my decision somewhat. 
Realizing that the next best thing to being there was talking into an oddly shaped piece ofplastic; I dialed my sister's phone number. Predictably, she wasn't home. 
But while Iwas trying to get over my disappointment by chucking dirty laundry at men singing to paper towels, my phone rang. When I heard mv mother's voice, I suspected that at last my luck was chang­ing, sine~ parental calls usually mean money is on the way. But Mom and Dad called to remind me that Iowed them for a phone bill run up at Christmas. 
When they asked why they hadn't heard from me recently, I said it was because I didn't want to depress them with all my bad news. Af. ter they made the mistake ofasking what bad news, I started running down the list of tickets, warnings, near-arrests, and lost loves. They hung up before I got to the part about lost love. 
They never even gave me a chance to explain about the nearly empty bank account that will make it impossible for me to pay the phone bill for another several months, ifthen. 
Isuppose ifmoney is truly the root ofall evil, I should die now and go to heaven. With my luck, the place will be closed on Mondays. 




smetd 

by Ted Ozark 



~~()rtS=J3==r==i=e~S==============================M=o=n=da=y=,M~M=c=h=2=s,=I9=s=3==p=a=ge=s 
, 
.. 
-_, 
I 
I I 
The Observer wtll accept classtfieds Mon­day through Fnday, 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However, classifieds to appear in the next issue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton All classtfieds must be prepaid, 
etther in person or through the matI.
Classifieds 
NEED RIDERS to Manchester NH, 8os· TYPING IN MY HOME (RESUMES, LET· PEAVY PA SYSTEM 6 CHANNEL NEED TO LOSE WEIGHT? CALL JANET ion area tor Easte Leavtng Tuesday 3/29 lEAS, REPORTS. TERM PAPERS. POWER MIXER, 2 CABINETS. 2 MIKES 283-6808 for "how to · tnfo![ NOTICES I at 4PM Call Kevtn 1441 ETC.). NEAT, ACCURATE WORK. ALSO LIGHT SHOW 3555 REASONABLE RATES. 233-7009 I need a nde to Boston for Easter break Need nde to DC tor break Please call FOR SALE: P.A. SYSTEM GOOD Wtlling to share costs. drtvtng, and food
TYPING 

Karen at 7939 EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO COND. CALL 277-Q915 AFTER 10 P.M. Call Jeb at 8641 Thanks.
Jackte Boggs TYPING VERY REASONABLE RATES684·8793 

Need RIDE to CLEVELAND tor Easier 287·5162. For sale couch, cha1r, end-tables. stereo Need nde to DELAWARE for break Can Call Jack 1588 stand, carpets Excellent condition 283 -leave Wed Wtll share the usual Call Ed at Everyone tS gotng CUCKOO!!! 'ONE 1069 8639.
Save on natural VItaminS Free catalog 
Need RIDE TO PURDUE FOR EASTER FLEW OVER THE CUCKOOS NEST .....~\Htll House. SUtte 427, 495 Old York Road. 
BREAK. WILL SHARE $$. CALL JIM Aprtl7.8,9 Need nde to Blacksburg, VA or nearby lor
Jenktntown. PA 19046 
8721 Easier. Can leave 3/30 Call Heaher at ~ .. SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE ts now 8151.
FOR RENT 

NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND & BACK accepttng applications for the posttton ol CAN LEAVE THURS AFTERNOON ADVERTISING MANAGER for 1983-84 lmagtne lhts THE Notre Dame -SAINT Bookstore basketball!! CALL LOUIS AT 1547 THANK YOU Deadltne tor all applicattons Aprtl6 FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT MARY'S OBSERVER. featunng YOUt
WANTED 

SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND 277-Yes, you can become a part of thts The Absurder ts comtng' The Absurder ts need nde to Staunton,VA tor Easter can 3604 hallowed publicatton THE OBSERVER ts comtngl Thts Wednesday At newstands leave anyltme Thurs. call Steve 1855 In search of wnters for 1ts Features and everywhere 
Student Rental, 5-bedroom home. $420 Edtlonals Departments. Monday, March
NEED RIDE to Maryland or D. C. area for 
ILOST/FOUND \
Need nde to Loogootee Call Manlyn, mo 233-6779 28 THE OBSERVER wtll be looktng tn the LEWIS HALL LIMERICKS Tnere was a
Easter break. Will share driving & $$­
1269. babasement of Regtna Hall wnere these young wench from Oh10 Who danced
please call Michele. 3793. 
4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo all departments w1ll be holding a mmeet1ng every weekend wtth a smtle-o A formal a NEED RIDE to CHGO Lost· To the young ladtes who are holdtng uttliltes tncluded June or Sept Call 319· for all those 1nterested 1n wntmg at 4 00 ntght Was her happy phght On. when wtllI'm gotng to Galesburg. IL tor Easter 1"11 
DWNTWN/OHARE AREA WED ah my LAUNDRY CARD hostage· I need my 322-8735 Patty pm she ever slow down-o? by-Crazy Feettake rtders to the the Quad Ctty area Call CALL 1266/7 or 1684 laundry PLEASE RETURN. NICK x8232 Too or l-could·be-tealous·buHm-not ·I·Bob8276 
SODOM & GOMMORAH FOR RENT!! St Edward s Hall thtnk Need rtde to CLEVELAND · Can leave CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CHEAP CALL Presents Wed at noon · Call Joante x2244 LOST CANON AE-1 CAMERA BEFORE JOHN ar 239·6244 OR 283·8657 ONE FLEW OVER Headed Caroltna way lor Easter? Looktng 
NEED AIDE TO/FROM CLEV AREA BREAK WILL PAY REWARD, NO THE for prospecttve female nders Those In· FOR EASTER CALL PAM 8851 Wanted 2 roommates to share apartment QUESTIONS ASKED CALL 283·1388 STAYING IN SOUTH BEND THIS SUM· CUCKOO'S NEST terested should submtl photos wtth name. 
wtlh 2 female sentors-to-be tn 1983·84 ASK FOR,AL MER? 3 bedroom house to sublet, 2.5 Aprtl7,8,9 number. and vtlals toP 0 Box Q, The Ob· NEEDED Rtde/Rtders to Boston over Call Lynn at 6359 or 7607 tor more mtles from campus tn safe netghborhood. 8PM server Easter Leavtng 3-30. Call Tom x6802 detatls. WHY DID YOU TAKE MY GLOVES OUT Rent very reasonable. Call 234-1713 at­Washtngton Hall 
OF LOCKER x151 AT MOREAU SEMI· ter6·00 Admtsston $1.00 2 gtrls desp need nde to So Carolina Need RIDERS/RIDE to U of VIRGINIA NARY? REGARDLESS OF WHY YOU Easter Brk 284-5095Rtde needed to ANN ARBOR 3/31 Jeff 
area.Leave tues/weds Call JACKx1791 DID IT I WILL PAY THE RANSOM Clean 3 BR Furntshed 3 to 4 students 931
6756 PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT 1649 THANK N Notre Dame Ave After 5PM call 232· PAD law fraterntty wtll be presenttng a so­
RIDERS NEEDED back from the Mtn· YOU 0535 Cial concerns fllrn. ··what s Bemg Done 1n ATTENTION SIGMA MU'sNEED RIDE TO NEW YORK CITY AREA 
neapolis/St. Paul area after Easter break Appalachta? thts Wednesday at 12 noon Remember The Eltle. The Wtld. TheFOR EASTER. CALL MIKE 277·6880 
Call Debbte at x3838 Who lost a gold bracelet on th1s campus? at the law school. Room 11 0 Crazy. you party an•mal, runnmg tabs and Call Rtck at x1208 traveler checks. Mary Ann Charge tt ·· Need nders tor central PA Leavtng on the 
WASHINGTON,D.C. Need rtde·wtll share Need nde to MPLS area Wtll share ex· Partytng wtth the Ptllsburgh Ptrates eventng of March 30 (Wednesday). Call 
usual Bnan 1139 LOST HELPt My backpack and books penses Please call Sarah 1332 (what sa rookte?) & the R1nghng Brothers
I PERSONALS I

Steve at 8727 were snarled from St Mary s dtntng hall too, IU, OU. OS. MSU & ND. dead babtes before break! Oh! How could tt happen? HEY McCAHTAH Ntce opentng stuptd! & Italian Assasstns. green beer & fned BUFFALOI! Desperately tn need of a nde 
REWARD. Mega-bucks! call Chrts 8174 Wanna gel homogeniZed? N/A cheese 
to BUFFALO tor Easter break Can leave TYPING AVAILABLE, 287-4082. Satnt Marys students· YOU can buy Ob­Clare, Btlly Jean, Beat 11. FACE. Stiver 
by Tues(jj;ly noon. Please call Jack at server classtfteds at the Sa tnt Mary sOb­
LOST IN ENGINEERING BUILDING CAROLC. to Gold. parktng lot rays. ooh lhat took my
x8649 CRUISE SHIP JOBSt Great tncome server oH1ce. Monday through Friday,
My santty as well as a blue Eddte Bauer Frohliches Geburtstag!!!! Hope your breath away. Those are the gtrls from la!~it potenltal. all occupattons. For tnformatton noon to 3 p.m. Send someone an Easter 
ntght. HJ, Mtster Donuts. McD s & Ben­
down Jacket Whereabouts last known 21slts the best evert Have a blast! EnJOY
REALY NEED RIDE TO DETROIT AREA call: 602-837-3401. ext. 866 personal
We.. 1esday, March 23 Please call thts your day' You rea super roomte! Happy ntgans! Could ~e cancel the cake? 
FOR EASTER BREAK, CAN LEAVE 
clueless technocrat at x6931 B•rthday sweelte Measles & bed bttes. ER & lockeo 
THUR. MORNING. I WILL SHARE Typtng ALL KINDS 277-8534 attar 6pm Buy Absurder classtfteds. Deadline 3 basernents. the Coppertone look Morn iS
C1ao! Love. driVIng, wno has me keys? Who gets the 
USUAL. PLEASE HELP CALL p.m. at the Notre Dame or Satnt Mary"s Meghan
MAUREEN 7978. Expenenced Typtsl, Mrs Bedford, 288· Absurder (oops, Observer) ofttces Last 
ffoor tontte'7 2107. Hours Mon thru Frt. 8 am to 5 pm day to buy ts Tuesday 
P.S. Now where d1d I ever learn German'> 
································································ Here comes Ron. All tne boys that turn 
NEED RIDERS TO DETROIT PLEASE 
us on tur11 us down. If you re gotng to be CALL MELINDA WERE LEAVING Be a Certtfied Horses A--. Beaultful Wall Have a ntce day Shtrley! 
To the Lauderdale Sun God Studs. John
FOR SALE 
nasty I wont serve you at all. party Marty, MARCH 31 x6965 ·Certtftcate and Wallet Card. Only $3 00. 
Wtghtktn The man of steei wtth the dtsco 
the stnpe<.l iook & square> too Postpatd DAD's, Box 822S, Centralia, II· DONT LET GRAVITY GET YOU DOWN! 
purses --are you ready tor Mtzzou? Btll Thanx for a super week Mytak Delta's Don Juan --wake up yet? Kev1n Connors· I love you, Mary! .. lose 
RIDE NEEDED TO NORTHERN NEW linots 62801 FOR SALE 1980 "Yamanopper MC Come to the meettng of the Notre Dame We couldn t have done tt Wtthout you
JERSEY/NYC (OFF 1·80) for Easter. Can Low mtleage, Excellent condttton -$300 L-5 SOCIETY Tuesday Mar 29th, 8pm 
anythtng lately?· Monotony" sucks! Let's Ruby!
leave Wed. 3-30: return Tues. 4·5. CALL CLOTHES MADE TO MEASURE Please call Dan at x6824 127 Nteuwland Hear J. Suszynskt talk 
BILL AT 3095 or 8573. TAILORING AND ALTERATION about manned orbtltng tabs. Where are (3o Back!_ 
Fabrtc cost. plus labor SMALL REFRIGERATOR. GOOD CON· ttne SPACE lovers on lhts campus? Earth Hey Hodgte Now thai the wench blew To the girl from St LOUIS who has Silent NEED RIDE TO RALEIGH.NC FOR EAS­Call232-7175 DITtON. PERFECT FOR DORM ROOM is ntce. but what do you know about space you how about paytng off your debts? btrlhdays. Happy Belated 19th Btrthday. TER. CALL KEVIN AT 1649. $80/BEST OFF · CALL 1079 '!til you vtstt? LET'S GO! Lou YOU FISH-HEAD• 
......_..........~ "'·: 

By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Bookstore Basketballwm hold its mandatory cap­tains· meeting tonight at 7 in the Library Auditorium. At least one representative ofeach team must be present. Teams which have not paid the S4 registration fee must bring the money to this meeting. ­
The Observer 
Louisville was awesome in the overtime period ofits Midwest Regional championship game Saturday, ripping offthe first 14 points ofovertime as the Cardinals sped into the Final Four with an 80-68 win over their intrastate rivals, Kentucky. The "Civil War" had not been fought since 1959. Lancaster Gordon was named the outstanding player at the conclusion of the NCAA Mideast Regional championship game Kentucky simply came unglued, and the rout was oo as the Cards, 32-3, surged to a 76-62 advantage before Dirk Minniefield's lay-up ended the Wildcats' scoreless drought with only 34 seconds remaining. The victory sends Louis­ville, champion of the Metro Conference, into a national semifinal contest at Albuquerque, N.M., next Saturday against top-ranked Houston, winner ofSunday's Midwest Regional title, 89-71, over No. 13 Villanova -AP 
The Irish baseball team endured a hard-luck weekend as it lost three games by close scores at Miami and Dayton.
• "-Toe:: ~,:-.dskin.;; brat the Irish, 2-1 on a balk in the seventh inning with two ou~. 3..!"!d 6-5 with st. unearn;Cd ru11!i-Yester~ay!, thr Irish were overtaken by UD in the bottom oftht:-500h.as. du~ tlyc~~ .'lco(eu ~·:.' runs. More of the gruesome details appear in tomorrow's issue. The Observer 
Larry Holmes, who began his pro fighting career here 10 years ago and promised to fight here as a champion, knocked down Lucien Rodriguez in the sixth round yesterday and boxed his way to an easy 12-round unanimous decision in defense ofthe World Boxing Council heavyweight championship. Holmes, who is scheduled to make his 15th title defense-against Tim Witherspoon May 20, has looked sharper, but he was sharp enough to control the fight against Rodriguez, a Moroccan-born resident of Paris, who holds the European heavyweight championship. Indeed, the 31­year-old Rodriguez fought like a man who wanted to last the dis­tance, rather than one who wanted to take the title away from the unbeaten Holmes, now 42-0. Holmes did not lose a round on any of the cards. -AP 
Ralph Satnpson, after watching Othell Wilson's under­handed shot go awry at the buzzer and give 16th-ranked North Carolina State a 63-62 victory Saturday and the NCAA West tourna­ment title in Ogden, Utah, vented the frustration ofsquandering his last opportunity of winning the national championship with a vi­cious one-handed jam. Then the two-time player of the year strode off the court, hastily dressed for a post-game new conference and departed for home, a million-dollar career in the National Basketball Association ahead ofhim. The bitterness ofthe moment poured out later. "I've had some tough losses, but this one ended it up," Sampson said softly. "I think this is probably the toughest one I've ever had." The Wolfpack won this game because Virginia, the West's top seed, couldn't prevent senior guard Dereck Whittenburg from connecting on long jump shots, or the 6-11 Bailey on short jumpers over Sampson. N.C. State, the West's sixth-seeded team, also got two bas­kets and some crucial rebouds down the stretch from sophomore forward Lorenzo Charles, who hit two free throws with 23 seconds left to send the Wolfpack to the Final Four in Albuquerque, N.M., against East champion Georgia. -AP 
Notre Datne's tennis team dropped a pair of matches this weekend, Saturday to Ball State, 5-4 in Muncie, and yesterday, 7-2, to Indiana. Mark McMahon, Mike Gibbons, Tim Noonan and Tom Pratt won singles matches to give the Irish a 4-2 lead after the singles matches. Notre Dame proceeded to lose all three doubles matches as the Cardinals won. Only Gibbons and the doubles team ofMcMahon and Idzik could win for NO, which drops to 9-5 going into Thursday's match at Purdue. -The Observer 
"""'--·.,. 
.Rich O'Leary's ;a{:!"O~Se teii..."!! opentd its Mid­

west Lacrosse Association season the right way Saturday, beating MLA rival Kenyon, 15-5. The team also won a game yesterday against Lake Forest College by a 15-7 score. The wins were the first of the year for the Irish and even their record at 2-2. More details on the two games will appear in tomorrow's paper. -The Observer 
Graduate student John McCloughan 

·t was the big winner in Saturday's Notre Dame Invitational, held in the blustery wind at Cartier. McCloughan took two firsts, in the 110­meter high hurdles and the 400-meter intermediate hurdles. Jan Kania was first in the 400 meters and Jim Moyar won the 800. Van Pearcy took first in the 200 and Andy Dillon was first in the 1,500. The Irish 1,500-meter relay came in first as well. Chuck Constable won the high jump. More details will appear in tomorrow's Ob­server. -The Observer 
• • • 'Dawgs 
continuedfrom page 12 
asked for anything more -especial­ly after such a horrendous offensive start." 
Georgia cruised into the final be­hindJanet Harris' 27 points, sending Indiana home, 86-70. And when it was all over yesterday, the most unlikely of basketball schools was sending its second team to a Final Four appearance. 
Just when you thought it was safe to write off Athens, Ga., as a place that had seen its great athletic mo­ments. 
TOURNAMENT ITEMS -The Lady 'Dawgs will go to Norfolk, Va., next weekend to take on West 
Regional champion USC, which beat Cal State-Long Beach, 71-64. No. I Louisiana Tech will take on the host team, Old Dominion, which defeated Penn State, 74-60 at Uni­versity Park, Pa., in the other semi­final . . . . Crowds of 851 and 361 were announced at the sessions. Tennessee had the largest contin­gent, while Ole Miss probably had .the most charismatic . . . The all­'<o~rn~n1ent tt';;:!!: Harris, Hllave, Theresa Edwards, Denise j acksr)n of IU and Sandra Newborn of Ole 
Miss ... The Observer's ballot listed Morton instead of Haave and Missis­sippi's Dana Fortenberry in place of Jackson. 

The Observer Monday, March 28, 1983 -page 9 
Shock Carolina 
'Underdawgs' sprint to Final Four 
SYRACUSE, NY. (AP) -Under­dog Georgia, led byJames Banks and Vern Fleming, ruined North Carolina's bid for a second straight national basketball title yesterday, shocking the Tar Heels 82-77 for the NCAA East Regional championship and a trip to the Final Four. 
The 18th-ranked Bulldogs, competing in the NCAA playoffs for the first time, will meet North Carolina State, Saturday's upset win­ner over Virginia and Ralph Sampson in the West Region, in national semi­finals at Albuquerque, N.M., next Saturday. 
The small but quick Bulldogs con­tinued their march in post-season play by dominating the Tar Heels inside and going on a 12-2 spree ear­ly in the second half to pile up a big enough lead to hold off a desperate North Carolina comeback. 
Georgia, which got into the NCAA playoffs only by winning the South­eastern Conference tournament, knocked off Virginia Common­wealth and third-ranked St.John's to advance to the regional final. Yester­day, the Bulldogs did it despite the absence of their high scorer, Terry Fair, for all but two minutes of the second halfbecause offoul trouble. 
Banks, a 6-6 junior, led the way with 20 points, while Fleming and Gerald Crosby each scored 17. 
All-American Michael Jordan of North Carolina scored 16 of his game-high 26 points in the first half, when Georgia led 37-35. 
Awesome Coogs rip 'Nova to win Midwest 
KANSAS CITY (AP) -Larry Mic­heaux and Akeem Abdul Olajuwon dominated Villanova inside and top­ranked Houston cruised to a 89-71 victory over the cold-shooting Wildcats yesterday, winning the NCAA Midwest Regional champion­ship and earning a return trip to col­lege basketball's Final Four. 
The Cougars, 30-2 with 25 straight victories, will meet No. 2 Louisville, the Mideast champion, in Saturday's semifinals at Albu-· querque, N.M. 
Houston, with the 7-0 Abdul Olajuwon and the 6-9 Micheaux, never allowed the Wildcats to work inside, and Villanova's normally sure shooting touch from the perimeter deserted the Big East Conference tri­champions. 
Micheaux had 30 points, nine rebounds and three blocked shots, while Abdul Olajuwon had 20 
points, 13 rebounds and eight blocked shots for the Southwest Conference champions, who haven't lost since a December meeting with Virginia in Tokyo. Mic­hael Young also had 20 points for Houston. 
The Cougars broke itopen with a 16-6 run during the first 4:39 of the second half, climaxed by an uncon­tested slam dunk by Alvin Franklin. Houston led by 20 points, 53-33, with more than 1 5 minutes to go. 
Attention Saint Mary•s students: 
Thcz Fczaturczs &Editorials Dczpts. of 
arcz holding a mczczting 
in the basement of Regina. March 28 at 4:00p.m. All interested writers are welcome 
Exciting Things Ate Happening at Daniel's Den Lounge Ramada Inn South Bend 
Back by popular demand March 21-26: 
The Great Sleepy Martin 
M·Th  Dollar Drink Nite  
on bar liquor & domestic  
beer  
F-Sat  Each person will receive a  
2 for 1 drink ticket  
Sun  We are now open Sunday 8-12 pm  
with live country music by  
Whiskey River Band  

52890 U.S. 33 North of Cleveland Rd., South Bend, 272-5220 
With Syracuse and St. John's al­ready gone from the tournament field, a crowd of 22,894 at the Car­rier Dome jumped on the Bulldog bandwagon and cheered them on as they played a close first half. 
North Carolina, bidding for its third straight Final Four appearance and ninth overall, finished the season with a 28-8 record. Georgia, which finished in a four-way tie for fourth in the SEC but has yet to be beaten outside the conference this season, has a seven-game winning streak and a 24-9 record, a school record for most victories. 
Fair, who had a career-high 27 points in knocking off St. John's Friday night, scored 11 points for Georgia. 
Behind Jordan for North Carolina were were Brad Daugherty with 15, Sam Perkins with 14 and Jim Brad­dock and Matt Doherty with 10 apiece. 

Georgia women's basketball star janet Harris, shown here scoring two ofher 18points in yesterday's win over Tennessee, was named the Outstanding Player ofthe Midwest Regional that con­cluded in the ACC this weekend. Georgia's 67-63 victory put it into the women's Final Four, matching the feat of the Georgia men's team. MikeRiccardi has moredetails in hisstoryon the backpage. 
~ Brano·s Original Pizza •2 
North on U.S. 31, across from Big C Lumber 272-4519 
$2.00 OFF fi"Y LfiitGE PIZZA $1.00 OFF fi"Y SMALL PIZZA 
Monday-Thursday Only 3;28 3;31 
' 
MOSTPitESE"TCOOPO" O"LYGOOD fiTBitO"o·s ~2 
~111""11"· 1\\l""lllli\\1111\111\\ \\\\"'"11\\\11111111111111 i~'liil ill
111111

'111:::::1111 I Ull ltlillil I 1 I I ,IIIII \Ill li\1, 
TONIGHT 7:00 pm 
ART and DESIGN BUILDING MARCH 28-APRIL 1 

r-#&'4<>-4W~<«Wi-ZJ@w4FAW--ffdl'1W-M> l-&W&'J'&<"J'FJ'-A'E~#,w-R##-m~ 
·. 
~ 
:1 

ATTENTION OFF -CAMPUS STUDENTS AND ~ ALL STUDENTS MOVING O.C. · 
l!Jntt 
1J1nr 

®ff-<trampus <trnmmissinntr 
for 1983 · 84 Wednesday, March 30 
11:00 · 4:00 LaFortune 
Seniors may vote 

CANDIDATES ARE PAT DEPACE and RANDY HILL 
The Observer 
Mass and Breakfast honor Knute Rockne 
-
Irish spring football opened Saturday as Blair 
Kiel ( 5) bands offto Allen Pinkett (20). Kiel and 
Pinkett are vital cogs in the 1983 Notre Dame of-
The Ob:tc::rvcr/John Wachter 

fense. We have a report on spring ballfrom Steve Labate mz the back page. 
By STEVE LABATE 
Sports writer 

"Knute Rockne. A man who has 
transcended time to remain in the 
hearts of the Notre Dame family." 
These were the fitting words of Mas­
ter of Ceremonies Tom Panzica at 
yesterday's "i2nd annual Knute 
Rockne Mass and Breakfast. 

It was over a half-century ago, 
March .31, 19.31, that the small twin 
engine plane carrying Norweigian­
born Knute Rockne crashed on a 
small Kansas farm killing "The Rock" 
and stunning the world. Yesterday, 
former players and old friends alike 
met in the South Dining Hall to pay 
<c; 1983 Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, WI 

"I MIGHT GO WORKED UR 
BUr IDOI'T GO RWD UP!'' 
-· 

homage to the greatest coach col­lege football had ever witnessed. 
Among  those  at  the  mass  and  
breakfast  were  former  Rockne­ 
coached  players  Chet  Grant  

(quarterback, 1920-21) and Paul Castner (halfback, 1920-22), 198.3 Irish co-captains Blair Kiel and StaceyToran, Special Assistant to the Athletic DirectorJoe Yon to, and the "Voice of the Irish", Mutual Radio Network's Tony Roberts. 
The first speaker of the morning was the 86-year-old Castner, an All­American haltback in 1921. Castner emhusiastically recollected the 1920's at Notre Dame with Rockne. 
However the 1922 graduate also spoke of contemporary issues such as brutality in football and academic cheating, and told of the manner in which Knute would have dealt with the problems. 
After citing a number ofoffensive innovations that Rockne brought to football, Castner closed by saying that "Rockne's greatest contribution to America was spirituaL He made the physical (college athletics) part ofthe educational system and gave it spiritual value." 
Mutual's Tony Roberts followed ca~tner to the podium and picked up where the former Irish player had left off in assessing the qualities that turned an immigrant coach into a legend. 
"Through it all," Roberts remarked. "Rockne·~ character was such that his image remained untar­nished." 
But Knute Rockne i~ remembered mostly for his association with Notre Dame where from 19 I H-19:10 he compiled a IO'i-12-<i mark. His win­ning percentage of .881 ranks fir~t among all college coaches ever to walk the sidelines. 
"Rockne was an ingenious tetlow. very intelligent. shrewd, and the greatest salesman of his time," Roberts concluded. 
"He sold college f(Jotball and turned it into a million dollar busi­ness. If he were alive today, he would own this [lniversity." 
• • . Hudson 
continuedfrom page 12 
son even coached against Walsh 
(Walsh was at Stanford when Hud­
son was at Oregon ). 

Hudson was also an aide to Mike 
White at Illinois and Terry Donahue 
at UCLA. 

"While I was there ( at UCLA) I 
learned how to really attack 
defenses," recalls Hudson, "Coach 
Donahue knew a lot about me run­
ning game." 

Hudson is working with Mal 
Moore, former offensive coor­
dinator for Bear Bryant at Alabama 
for nine years. 

"Coach Moore will get directly in­volved in calling the plays. Coach Faust recognizes his experience and knows Coach Moore can lend in­sights to our offense. 
"He has a good understanding of our offense already." 
A major concern last year was the lack of intensity exhibited by the Irish in games they were expected to win. Inconsistent pertormances against Oregon and Arizona soured impressive victories over Michigan. Miami and Pittsburgh and cost Notre Dame a bowl bid. 
··one thing I intend to establish in the spring is intense, consistent. tough coaching," Hudson says, "We will especially concentrate on taking ourgames one at a time, so we can prevent the Arizona and Oregon experiences from happening again. 
The Notre Dame faithful hope that the offense from the man upstairs will be heavenly -and also produce a lot ofvictories. 
-----~-~-----~------------------~~--~· 
lhe~r====================================== 
~~4()l~~============================M=o=n=d=a=y,=M=a=r=ch==2=8,=1=9=8=3===p=ag=e===ll 
Bloom County 
HL KIP. SAY, I .NST MIN A fm1VB OJ£R flJ MY PLAC£. GRAB f\ "IDIJEL-ANP 
1.£T'b W HI\V£ 
A M!/TUIV.. ~K. 
~/ 
··~ 
\. ~-·. 
3-2.8 


Simon 
uF SOME. KIND, f'M NOT
WHAT WAS 
SURE £XACTL'I

\ ----~WHAT? 
•· \ 

~ 
Berke Breathed 


Jeb Cashin 




The Daily Crossword 
© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 3/28/83 All Rights Reserved 


ACROSS 27 Gaps Oompah 29-acid instrument (vitamin C) 
5 Water 33 Between container wine and 10 Unruly song child 34 Less 14 Literary important 
collections 35 Peer Gynt's 15 Solo mother 16 Swiss 36 Goals 
waterway 37 Jesters 17 Ruin's 38 1151 
partner 39 Arafat's 18 Hiker group 20 Wapiti 40 Salary 21 Sty cry 41 Bumpkin 22 Scottish 42 Acquire 
dagger a tan 23 Showed 44 Meat amazement entrees 25 Grafted: Her. 45 Dill 
Friday's Solution 

•tHIIHNHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlllllfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIII...IHHHIINIIIIIIIIHIIIII"IIIII' 
The Student Union Presents: 
"Jesus Christ Superstar" 
the smash hit is at the 
CHAUTAUQUA BALLROOM Tuesday, March 29 at 7, 9, and 11 "You've heard the album, now see the movie!" -B. Barrett $1 
IIIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIfiiiiiiiii....IIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIHHIII...IIIH..a 

46 Beofcon· 
sequence 47 Region 50 Crabby 51 Debit color 54 Dark alley 57 ACopper· 
field 58 Aleutian island 59 Current 
fashion 60 Endorse 61 Harvest 62 Rapier 
or foil 63 Solidifies 
DOWN 1 Wrapping 
weight 2 Singular 3 Board game 4 Invite 5 Infants 6 "-flowing 
with milk..." 7 Short stocking 
25 Serfs of old 26 PFCs and 
CPOs 27 Trades 28 French 
soldier 29 Ms. Semple Mcr:. ..:rson 30 Relative 
of crawl 31 Ait 32 Tops off 
a room 34 Power 37 Spouse 38 Lament 40 Desires 41 "-High· 
ness" 43 Use reverse gear 44 Put to flight 46 Henri's 
heart 47 Ski lift 48 Rank 49 Judicial 
8 Sign proceedings 9 Fiber 50 Utah's 
cluster flower 10 Angel 52 Epochal 11 Roue 53 Week's 12 Surface contents 13 Sea swallow 55 Video sets 19 John J.-56 Noisy 21 Certain dispute 
tournament 57 Trail 24 Pilots closely 
1 

Campus 
•I2:
15 p.m. -Workshop, "Education and Productivity in Paraguay," Prof. Kennethjameson, Library Lounge 

•4 
p.m. -Chemistry Seminar, "Single Electron Transfer Initiated Reactions on Surfaces," Prof. ]. Cunningham, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Search for Fractional Charge," Dr. Walter Innes, 1I8 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting of the Student Senate, 2-C LaFortune 

•6 
p.m. -Speaker Series, "Everything You Wish Someone Would Have Told You Before You Started Work!" Stapleton Lounge 

•6:30 
p.m. -ND Women's Caucus Meeting, I 07 Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Innocence Unprotected," Annenberg Auditorium, $2 

•7:30 
p.m. -American Studies Lecture, "The Integration of Learning," Max Lerner, Hayes Healy Auditorium 

•8:30 
p.m. -Piano Sophomore Recital, Denni~ Arechiga, I I 5 Crowley Hall 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Aguirre, Wrath ofGod," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•II 
p.m. -Music Mill, Robin Brown, WSND-AM 


64 

T.V. Tonight 
Sp.m. 16 Little House A New Beginning 22 Archie Bunker's Place 28 That's Incredible 
8:30p.m.  22  Foot in the Door  
9p.m.  22  Alice  
28  ABC  Monday  Night  Movie  "The  

Thorn Birds" 
34 Great Performances 9:30p.m. 22 One Day at A Time lOp.m. 22 Cagney and Lacey llp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22Eyewitness News 
-

28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 TrapperJohn and Columbo 28 ABC News Nightline 
12p.m. 28 The Last Word !2:30p.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 
, . 
The Far Side 
3J c Chrotuclft Fe1h.rea. 1983 
00 0 0 


.. 
0 u 
cO; 

"Wheeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!. .. 

ND Student Union is proud to present.. .... 
IIGOBO&UGS !rOB~-~~ 88i&l IIIDI&~!I 
George Gilder  and  Robert Reich  
presents the model  ptesents the Democrats'  
for Reaganomics  model for economic recovery  
author of Wealth & Poverty  has appeared on the cover of  
Atlantic Monthly  

ADMISSION IS FREE 
~.a~ .. fib :&:cJI:!Ui~'lt' 417»w ·-·~ 
~----------------------------------------------·---------~------~----------------­
Monday, March 28, 1983 -page 12
S~orts 
Offensive Coordinator Hudson 
'Man upstairs' guides Irish attack 
By THERON ROBERTS confuse the defense. television," notes Hudson. "I've Sports Writer "I would look for a multi-been working with him for two formation offense that utilizes many years, the first time he has had that 
Whenever the Notre Dame of­dimensions. We'd also like to have opportunity. That should be a fensive unit needs a crucial first the balance among receivers that we definite plus for our offense." down or a big play this fall, it will had last year." Hudson plans to make roll-out look to the man upstairs for the With the absence of Notre Dame's passes part of the Irish repertoire proper guidance. leading pass-catcher of the past since Kiel is especially effective 
Not the Alimighty, mind you, but three seasons, Tony Hunter, Hudson throwing on the run. new offensive coordinator Ron Hud­hopes to spread out his offense, Kid's ability to read defenses is a son. On Saturdays, Hudson will making it difficult for opponents to second virtue that Hudson mentions assume his perch in the press box, key on one or two people. as a great asset. Still, Hudson will communicating with Gerry Faust "We will attempt to spread out work extensively with Kid to help and new running back coach Mal the offense -sometimes using bolster his 1982 completion per­Moore via headsets. three wide receivers -in order to centage of.546. 
For the time being, Hudson, who spread out the defense." Scott Grooms and Todd Lezon retains his position as quarterback will be splitting second string quar­coach, is preparing his offensive unit terbacking duties. for the upcoming season in spring Spring Grooms returns after sitting out
'83 
practice. the 1982 campaign following his
-FOOTBAL~

Hudson expects no tremendous transfer back to Notre Dame from changes for the Irish offensive unit Miami ofOhio. Lezon was the junior in terms of new concepts. Again, the Irish will not live and varsity signal caller in his initial 
"We will have our base !­die by the pass, for the backfield is season. formation offense and use different stocked with talent. "Right now we are working with formations stemming from it. We "We have Alan Pinkett, Mark drop back passing with a lot of play want to make the different forma­Brooks and Greg Bell (back in the action fakes, adding the sprint out af­tions easy for our offense to run, but fall), so we will also be able to move ter a while. hard enough to recognize so as to the ball on the ground." "Coach Faust doesn't want too 
With quarterback Blair Kid much passing. Last year we averaged returning for his final season, the about 28 attempts per game, which Irish should also be able to move is about right. We will, however, well through the air. The apprecia­look to move the ball up the field." tion of Kid's value to the team was Hudson says that the successful 
most evident when he had to sit out offense is one that mixes its various 
the Penn State and Air Force con­strengths so that the defense doesn't By MIKE RICCARDI not as close as the score might indi­ever done to walk into the locker tests with an injured shoulder. know what to expect. Sports Editor cate, as Georgia took charge from room and see 12 girls crying their Hence, for the first time since 1978, Hudson is well-schooled in the 
the beginning. The Lady 'Dawgs hearts out," said Van Chancellor, Notre Dame will have a No. I quar­science of offensive strategy. He Basketball, to say the least, is a pressed and hurried to an early I6-5 Mississippi's down-to-earth head terback well established before the spent time studying the concepts 
secondary athletic passion in the lead as the Lady Vols were able only coach. "Ifthere ever was a victory in fall. and coaching technique ofSan Fran­State of Georgia. While it isn't the to hit one tleld goal in the first eight defeat, that was it ... I couldn't have "Kiel is the man right now. Blair cisco 49ers coach Bill Walsh. Hud­state about which the joke was minutes of the game. has experienced all of the pressures 
Women complete 'Dawgs' double 
See 'DAWGS, page 8 See HUDSON, page 10 
-originally told, it could be legimate­However, when 6-3 Karen Mor­of sellout crowds and national ly said that there are only two .sports ton followed Lynne Collins' miss to down there -football and spring make the score I6-7, Tennessee football. began a roll that Sheila Collins Notre Dame second 
And, of course, when Herschel topped off by hitting a I 0-foot pull­Walker decided to leave the hedges up jumper to give UT a pretty of the University of Georgia's San­amazing 29-28 halftime advantage. 
Harstrom wins NCAA epee title 
ford Stadium for the concrete of Tanya Haave's I5-footer from the Giants Stadium in North Jersey, the left baseline allowed Tennessee to By MATTJOHNSON tempts as the Irish lost in their bid finished second after consecutive natives wailed and gnashed their take a 31-28 lead after the tipoff Sports Writer for a third National Championship national titles in both 1977 and teeth, mourning what they thought before Georgia's big move. Bu .t then this weekend at Wisconsin-Parkside 
1978. was the beginning of a dark era for Lisa O'Connor, who finished with I 7 They say that the third time is when they were outscored by arch­Team titles aside, the Irish sports at the university. points, scored a layup after a steal, supposed to be the charm. That is rival Wayne State for the third time finsihed strongly in the individual And the TV networks thought . then hit a jumper to give UGa a lead what they say, anyway. this year, 86-80. events thanks to the efforts of junior they wouldn't have to put up with it wouldn't relinquish. Then Janet But unfortunately for the Notre It is the second year that Wayne Ola Harstrom and senior Marc "How 'Bout Them 'Dawgs" twang­Harris took over. 
Dame men's fencing squad, the third State has thwarted head coach Mike DeJong. Both ofthe Irish fencers gar­

ing from red-clad hillbillies for a Harris, named the Regional's out­effort proved to be just as dis­DeCicco's efforts for a third national while. standing player, scored six straight appointing as the first and second at-championship. In I979, the Irish 
Well, when you switch  on  CBS  to begin a four-minute tear in which  
next weekend, what cheer do you  she tallied 12 of her 18. The Lady  
..,. think you have a pretty good chance  'Dawgs, staked to a 46-33lead, never  
of hearing'  allowed the Lady Vols closer until a  
"How 'bout them 'Dawgs!"  late rally brought Tennessee within  
Yesterday was an  incredible day  four at game's end.  
for the men's and women's basket­ "We wanted  to  play the whole  
ball teams of the University of Geor­ game as fast as we could," said Lan­ 
gia.  When the  Lady Bulldogs  had  ders, explaining how Georgia out­ 
evened their season-long feud with  hustled  the  Lady  Vols.  "We're  
the  University  of  Tennessee  by  quicker than Tennessee-we know  
defeating the Lady Vols, 67-63, the  it and they know it. Our press was  
'Dawgs  had  secured  their second  working, but fatigue set in late in the  
NCAA Final Four berth ­ ofall-time,  game. We were able, though, to keep  
yes ... but also, of the day.  our composure and confidence."  
Earlier,  at  Syracuse,  N.Y.,  the  Tennessee,  on  the  other  hand,  
Georgia men sent the defending na­ didn't, as the Volunteers turned the  
tional  champions  from  North  ball over 24 times.  
Carolina  home with  a  convincing  Friday night's  Mideast  semifinal  
82-77 victory.  doubleheader  featured  the  third  
"The  amazing thing is,"  said  a  consecutive women's game to enter  
"'I writer from  the Atlanta Journal  at  overtime at the ACC this season. No.  
the  ACC  yesterday,  "that  Georgia  13 Mississippi and the No. 9 Volun­ 
basketball was just an  afterthought  teers hooked up in a game that, no  
four years ago." This was the men's  matter  how  hard  it  tried,  just  
team's first trip to the NCAA, and the  wouldn't end.  
women's team's second appearance  Tennessee won an amazing triple  
in the national tournament.  overtime  game,  90-83.  The  Lady  
Lady Bulldog Coach Andy Landers  Rebels, down six with 23 seconds  
r:10ught of the men's success as in­ left in the second overtime, fought  
spirational  to  the  women.  "When  back as Sandra Newborn popped in  
they announced the scores (of the  the last six for Ole Miss to tie the  
I  upset win over St. John's) Friday and  game at 81 as the buzzer sounded for  
I  (of the win over Carolina) today. I was worried that it would break  the second OT. In the end,  though,  Haave  and  
I  their concentration. But I saw them react and they seemed to pick up a spark."  Morton came through for Tennessee as the Vols blitzed the lkbs, who had lost four of their starters to h>uls, in  
~  The NCAA women's Mideast J Regional championship game was  the deciding frame. "It's the most diftkult thing l'n:  
I  
r  
The I983 Notre Dame football team -minus the incoming fresh­


Moore debuts as Irish open spring ball 
men -began what they hope will be a national championship 
season when they opened up spring practice on Cartier Field this 
past Saturday morning. The practice consisted of mostly scrimmag­
ing as Coach Gerry Faust alternated his units, running the first team 
offense against the back-up defenses and the first team defense 
against the back-up offenses. 
On offense three-year letterman Blair· Kiel called the signals f<>r 

the first unit, whik junior Scott Grooms worked with the second 
squad. Senior walk·on Tom Cushing quarterbacked the third string 
on Satnday as he and sophomore Todd Lezon will alternate that 
position each practice. 
The first string running backs were Allen Pinkett and Mark Brooks. 

Pinkett looked especially good with his quick moves very visible 
from the sidelines. Lester Flemons, who is also a tailback and a soph· 
omore like Pinkett, had an impressive practice. 
On defense, the line saw the return of two players who missed the 

entire 1982 season due to injuries. Junior Tim Marshall and Fresh­
man Wally Kleine, who were both redshirted last season, hope to use 
their bulk in orderto earn themselves a starting role on the defensive 
line. 
Kleine is a very impressive and menacing looking man on the field. Only 1 H years old, Kleine runs 6-H, 2-tS lbs. But he is coming off a knee injury that wiped him out for the whole season last year. 
Finally, Saturday saw ~al .'v!oore make his debut as the running hack coach for Notre Dame..'vloore, who came to Notre Dame after I H years with Alabama, was in high spirits and h t appy to be with the Faust staff. 
Irish practices thb week will be today, tomorrow, and Wednes­day. The team will then break for the holy days of Easter. -Ste\·e Labate 
nered All-American status by placing 
in the top six of their weapons. 
Harstrom's and DeJong's accolades 
mark the 18th and 19th All­
Americans at Notre Dame under the 
22 year tuteledge of DeCicco. 
Highlighting the tournament for 
the Irish was Harstrom, who 
represented Notre Dame in the epee 
event. The junior won the gold 
medal in the event by beating his 
year-long nemesis, Ettore Bianchi of 
Wayne State. Harstrom battled to a 
23-2 personal record in the three day competition. 
Foilist Marc DeJong also captured All-American honors in his event by placing fifth overall and amassing a 20-5 record over the weekend. 
Freshman John Edwards, 
representing Notre Dame in the 
sabre competition, compiled a IS­
1 0 personal record, good enough to 
place him 13th overall in his 
weapon. 
Rounding out the tlnal top 10 teams in the nation behind Wayne State and the Irish were North Carolina with HO points; Harvard with""""; Princeton, ""S; Air Force, 73; Pennsylvania, "'2; Stanford, 69; St. John's, 6"'; ami Wisconsin, 62. 
Despite finshing second this year, the Irish can only look forward to tht.· 198-t season with optimism, as both Harstrom and Edwards will be returning, along with other out­standing pperformers su<:h as Jan Tivenius, .'vi ike \'an Der \'elden, Don 
Johnson, ~ike II iggs-Coulthard, and captains Chris (;rady, And~ Quaroni 
and .\like .Janis. 
~­





