~~--~ -~---~---~-­
-~-------~--~~­
• Hockey -page 9 

VOL XVII, NO. 85 tlw independent ~wdent new~paper ~lT\ ing notre dame and ~aim man·~ MONDAY,JANUARY 31, 1983 
Ambush renews Beirut fighting 
BEIRl T. Lebanon ( AP) -Guer~ the mother of Lebanese army Col. rillas ambushed and killed an Israeli Nazih Abdullah. soldier and wounded four more in An Israeli military spokesman said southern Beirut yesterday, and wit­the attackers were operating from nesses :.aid the Israelis retaliated an area which "in principle was with tank fire. killing two people~ supposed to be" under the control 
A french priest also was killed by of the U.S. Marine contingent. what police called Soviet-made Grad The bulk ofthe 1,200-man Marine rockets in a Druse shelling attack on contingent in Lebanon as part of an Christian east Beirut. international peacekeeping force is 
It was the first time the Lebanese stationed near Beirut airport. The capital wa~ shelled since Israel Galerie Semaan area is controlled by invaded· last summer and forced the Lebanese army troops and Italian evacuation ofthousands of Palestine troops of the multinational force. Liht>ration Organization guerrillas Meanwhile,-the French Embassy from Moslem west Beirut. said the Rev. Clothaire Semeux, 70, 
Many of the guerrillas have been was killed when three shells slipping hack, however. and the Is­slammed into the chapel of the raelis said the latest ambush was Brothers of Lazarus in the Christian launched from an area that was neighborhood of Ashrafiyeh. supposed to be under control of the A police spokesman said several tr.s. Marine peacekeeping contin­cars were destroyed or burned in 

gent. The Marines denied it. the shelling that also involved Chris­
The pro-PLO lebanese National tian and Druse villages in the hills club status. The Irish defeated the Westem .Wichi­Resistance front claimed respon­east and southeast of Beirut. gan Broncos 4-3 before 2,075 fans. (Photo by sibility for the ambush. Lebanese radio stations said two Scott Bower) 
The Tel Aviv command said four people were killed and three soldiers on patrol were wounded wounded in Druse-Christian fight­when the attackers opened fire with ing near the mountain resort town of 
Senate District 1 

rocket-propelled grenades and Aley. automatic weapons near the Galerie In jerusalem, the Israeli Cabinet Semaan, formerly a main crossing discussed the government's demand 

Candidates support cable TV 

point between east and west Beirut. for early warning "anti-terrorist su­Israeli military sources here also said pervision" stations in Lebanon as a Editor's note: The following is the District 2. plan, increased cultural awareness, an Israeli soldier was killed in the precondition for withdrawing Is­first ofa five.part series describing and the preservation of the 
ambush. rael's invasion army. the candidates in each of the five ByTOMMOWLE fieldhouse. The following is a profile State and privately owned An Israeli government official, Student Senate districts. Today's Campus Campaign Reporter ofeach candidate's position~ 
Lebanese radio and television sta­who requested anonymity, told segment profiles candidates from tions said the Israelis retaliated with reporters afterward that negotia­District 1 which consists ofAlumni, Cable TV, the use of Lafortune, machine guns and tank fire. leveling tions with Lebanon "are very hard. Carroll, Ho~y Cross, Lewis, Saint Ed­and the rental of the Knights of Campus , 
a two-story house and killing two partly because of objections put by ward's, Sarin, and Walsh Halls. The Columbus building are the major 
* Campaign 83

people, including Maryam Abdullah. the United States." series will continue tomorrow with issues in the District I Senate Cam­paign. All the candidates support bring­
Rob Bertino "knows how stu­

Links universities ing Cable TV on campus if students 
dent government operates" and
will pay for it. All agree there is a "would like to see more" of it. Theneed for more social space on 
Alumni sophomore has had ex­


CCE unveils teleconferencing 
campus, either in the Chautauqua perience as Special Projects Com­Ballroom, a remodeled Lafortune missioner for the Senate and as aBy PAM RICHARDSON WNUU-TV. Techniques," and panel discussions Student Center, or in a new student member of the Sophomore AdvisoryStaffReporter The conference tried to give a ofcase studies by local participants. center. Two candidates also believe Council and Student Affairs Advisory 

complete "overview ofthe problem. Throughout the conference par­that student~ should be allowed to 
Committee.

The first production transmitted a study of the complex action ticipants phoned-in questions for rent the Knights ofColumbus build­As Special Projects Director, he 
over a new communication network needed to reverse the current trend the panel to answer. ing. 
did research leading to the planninginvolving more than 'iO U.S. univer­and discussion of successful steps Other matters raised by the can­

Dr. Peter]. Lombardo, conterence of the installatio.1 of lights at Stepan

sities was televised at the Center for tal&n by some companies in the U.S. didates include expansion of
coordinator for the CCE hopes the Center later this month~

Continuing Education Friday. and abroad to increase produc­Darby's food service, the integration
success of thb tirst conference will

"facing the Challenge of Produc­tivity." of transfer students. a reduced meal See CAMPAIGN, page 3 tivity." was aired via satellite from After the introduction. topics bring more similar teleconterences both the I :niversity of Nebraska­covered were "facing the Challenge into the CCE. Lombardo looks Lincoln and American L:niversity. A of Productivity," a panel discussion fanJrably on the pro~pect ofa future 

Gospel concert opens 

panel in the program included ex­on "Achieving Productivity broadcast originating from N,>tre pert!'> on management from both Through :vlodern Management Dame. schools: Dr. Sang Lee, Dr. Fred Lut­han~ Dr. Richard ~chonberger. all 

Black Arts Festival 

from thl·l'niver~ity of Nebraska, and By AMY STEPHAN will he run on a "Phil Donahue-type
Dr. llerbert Striner from American Neu•sStaff format". focusing mainly on ~tudent
l'nin:rsity. questions. This event will take place
During local segments Dr. Chris An appearance hv John Amos, star at H p.m.. Feh. -! in the :'vlemorial
Ander~on. :\/otre Dame professor of of"Roots" and "(iood Times" and an Lihrary auditorium.
Psychology and author ofseveral ar­alumni forum on "Athletic Scholar­llarris stated that the students
ticle~ on indu~trial producti\·ity and ships and Career Success" are ,·ery ahout
employee behavior. acted as the lo­two "seem enthused the highlights of this year's Black Cul­speakers this year... Amos will ap­
cal facilitator. tural Arts Festival. pear on feb. -1. and Carter. who will
The 10 a.m. -'i p.m. telecon­
The theme of this year's kstival, speak on "The History of Jazz" andkrence included both . faculty which opened yesterday with a perform several numhers. will ap­memhers and businessmen from the Gospel Song Concert, is "A Portrait pear on Feb~ I 0. 

South Bend area. of a Black Artist." An appearance by Warren Bowles, a 19'0 Notre
The cost of the program was jazz singer Betty Carter. a soul tiJod Dame graduate, will lecture on thereduced from the fixed price of S90 dinner in the dining halls, and a stu­life of Paul Robenson on l'eb. 2R Allfor thost.· outside the Notre Dame­dent talent show are other events three talks will begin at -,p.m. in the

Saint :'vlary's community to S:\'i, slated for the month-long event. Memorial Library auditorium.
needed to cover the fixed cost of The alumni forum will include According to Harris, there will be
receiving the program. former Notre Dame athletes: Tom a reception after each talk at which
The National l'niversity Telecon­ference Network was the students can meet the speakers.
Hawkins, current director of sports at KABC; Larry Sheffield, vice­Harris hopes, " ...the silldents are Production 

produced with the help of the South Bend/:'vtishawaka -Area Chamber of president of finance at AT&T; and more active in coming to the events Commerce. Inc. and the WNDU Aubrey Lewis, vice-president of this year and taking the time out to studios. 
Woolworth's. talk to the speakers after the events. The system is li••ked hy tiber-optic According to Alena Harris, festival 
~ee FESTIVAL, page 6

cables located at the studios and at committee chairperson, the forum 




---~-----~ -­

r 


News Brie_& 

Hy Thl! ( Jbsl!r!'l!r and Tbl! Associatl!d Pri!SS 
A Notre Danle football player was treated at 
Saint Joseph's Medical Center early Saturday for a stab wound in his upper left arm. The student suffered the wound at approximately 3 
a.m. at Corbv's Tavern, 1026 Corby Blvd. Reports said the stabbing occurred when the student got into a shoving match with another man inside the bar. The student apparently drove himself to the hospital after the incident. Police said the student was drinking at the tavern and apparently was shoved from behind while making his way toward the bar. Authorities said a scuffle ensued between the stu­dent and Paul Vogl, 20, of85 1 Park Ave. Allegedly the student took a swing at Yogi during the incident and was stabbed. According to police, Yogi then fled the tavern but was later arrested at Notre Dame Ave. and Howard St. Vogl was taken to the county jail and charged with public intoxication and battery. Police did not locate the weapon used during the assault. -1be Observer 
An exhibition of photographs of poets and 
writers by New York photographer Layle Silbert will continue through February in the Memorial Library. Silbert's works, which have appeared on several book jackets, posters, and in such publica­tions as the New York Times, Saturday Review and Time magazine, have been displayed in major American communities as well as Central and South America. Silbert's writings and poems have been published in several literary magazines. Silbert is a graduate of the University of Chicago, one of many schools which have displayed her photographs. -The Observer 
An airplane crash-landedabout 600 yards from Kemper Arena in Kansas City, Kansas, where a sell-out crowd of more than 10,000 watched an indoor soccer game, police said. The pilot, Steve Brooks, 3I, ofShawnee, Kan., made a belly-landing Satur­day night on a levee road on the east bank of the Kaw River, said Sgt. Ron Miller. The two-engine, six-seat plane skidded to a stop a few feet from the river's edge. Brooks escaped injury. The plane developed mechanical problems and then ran out of fuel about a mile short of Downtown Airport, said Joe Frets, public affairs officer for the Federal Aviation Administration. Brooks, who was alone in the plane, said he was flying from New Orleans to the Kansas City 
airport. -AP 
Residents ofone sectionofFarley Dormitory are masters of useless information at Iowa State University, winners ofa trivia contest that drew thousands ofparticipants. Listening intently to campus radio station KPGY-FM, students at the dorm rolled up the most correct answers to trivia questions broadcast every 6 minutes for 28 hours. The winners got a trophy. The station got lots of lis­teners. The contest, dubbed "Kaleidoquiz," started Friday at 3 p.m. and continued until 7 p.m. Saturday, said organizer Cal Maise. The questions were merciless. "What was the name of the dog in the televison show 'Johnny Quest'?" asked Maise. "When the Kennedys were in the White House, what was the name of the daughter's horse?," he added. Give up? the answers are Bandit and Macaroni, respectively. The station received some 3,000 calls during the 28­hour quiz, Maise said, and a computer kept track of the point totals. Sixty-two teams, with a total of more than 5,000 people, competed, he said. -AP 
Thousands of Filipinos ignored Roman 
Catholic church outrage and lined up yesterday to see steamy sex movies from a film festival organized by first lady Imelda R. Marcos. Owners of Manila's 96 cinemas, elated over the festival's success, said they were grossing more than S500,000 a day and would easily cover the event's S I million cost. Ticket prices were doubled for the festival and organizers said leftover money will go to charity. The theaters reported continued overflow attendance despite denuncia­tions by Archbishop Jaime L. Sin, a religious leader in the heavily Roman Catholic nation. Police announced that a 37-year-old taxi driver, Victoriano Haste, had a stroke Thursday while viewing one of the films, "Virgin People," and died in a hospital. The wife of Presi­dent Ferdinand E. Marcos, who did not personally select any of the films in the festival, advised Filipino movie producers in a statement yesterday to "prevent unscrupulous elements from abusing (creative) freedom." She did not elaborate. Cinemas showing the day's only non-pornographic festival entry -the American film "E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial" -were the only ones without long lines ofpeople waiting to get in. 
Unidentified attackers threwrocks at an Is­
raeli military vehicle on the occupied West Bank oftheJordan River, injuring a civilian woman passenger in the head, the military com­mand said yesterday. The attack occurred Saturday outside Dahariye, a village 11 miles southwest of Hebron. Israeli troops imposed a curfew on the area while they searched for the attackers, the command said. The West Bank has been plagued with unrest because of tensions between the Palestinian majority and Israeli au­thorities and settlers. Israel seized the West Bank from Jordan in the 1967 Middle East War. -AP 
Highs in the low 30s today. Cloudy tonight with a 30 percent chance of light snow possibly becoming mixed with sleet. Lows in the upper 20s. Cloudy tomorrow with a chance of light snow or <>leet. Highs in the low to mid 30s. -AP 

Monday,January 31, 1983-page 2 
Crossing the threshold 
"The Universi~V of Notre Dame finds itself on the threshold ofbecoming a great universi~v. and all our 
Tim Vercellotti 

efforts should be directed towards crossing the thres­
hold."-The PACE Report, p. 1. News Editor 
~ 
The term "crossing the threshold" often evokes the 
----------------------.~' -­
image ofan energetic groom carrying his blushing bride 
1nsicle Monday " ­

through the doorway ofa honeymoon suite. It is an oc­.t.-' 
casion filled with hope, the beginning of a new life for 
the newlvweds. 

The PACE Report proposes that administrators, an expansion of classroom and student living space. 
faculty and students work together to "carry" the Uni­How will these be funded? 
versity over the threshold. The tone of the report is ap­These are a few of the areas to be explored. In addi­
propriately hopeful, and the recommendations in the tion, some intriguing proposals made in the report, 
report are amibitious guidelines for the "groom(s )" such as a faculty ext change with leading universities in 
who will do the carrying in the next several years. the Third World, an increase in the role of the clergy, 
While the guidelines are ambitious, they are also particularly from the Holy Cross congregation, in teach­
vague. Perhaps space and time limitations prevented ing, research and administration at Notre Dame, and the 
Provost Timothy O'Meara, author of the reporr, from construction of townhouses for select seniors and 
writing more specific recommendations. In some cases, graduate students will be addressed. 
perhaps no concrete details Our list of PACE Report 
were available. 
story ideas is by no means in­In any case, The Observer clusive. On behalf of the 
news department would like news department I invite 
to follow-up on a number of students, faculty ana ad­
Pace report recommenda­ministrators to give us a call 
tions. if there is a portion of the 
Beginning tomorrow, and PACE report they think continuing every Tuesday merits further examination. and Thursday for the next Tomorrow, in the first in· several weeks, Observer staff stallment of The Observer's writers will take a closer PACE Report follow-up, look at portions of the PACE Senior Staff Reporter Sonya Report, illustrating the con­Stinson will take a look at dition of various areas men­Notre Dame's doctoral tioned by the PACE programs. The report sug­committee and reporting gests that "programs of mar­the steps planned to ginal quality be suspended," upgrade those areas. and that "strong programs 
Here is a sampling of the be reinforced." Where will stories to come: the ax fall? How will this be 
•The 
report calls for an admissions limit so the size of decided? We'd like to provide some answers. the student body does not exceed 7,300 (the projected According to the PACE Report, Notre Dame is on the enrollment for the 1983-84 academic year). The report threshold ofgreatness. Crossing the threshold could be also calls for a possible increase in the number of an exciting process for all involved with the University. women to be admitted. Will this mean a stricter admis­Beginning tomorrow, we hope to shed some light on sions policy for men? that process in its initial stages. 

•"In 
the interest of improving the quality ofstudent life on campus," the PACE committee recommended the construction of "satellite social centers." What 


Have you any creative JUICes meandering through that little mind of yours? Have you an in­
would the centers feature, where would they be tense interest in spending many groovy hours on
located, and are architectural bids now being solicited? the upper floor of LaFortune, laying out a paper
•Notre Dame suffers a shortage of classroom space. 
that all your friends will applaud in the morning?
The PACE report calls for a new classroom building and Do you like Pop Tarts? If you answered yes to any
notes that need and accreditation standards require ex­or all of these questions, then the Observer is thepansion of law and life science facilities. What is the place for you. Call or stop by the Observer officesextent of the overcrowding problem, and how soon between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m.. The phone numbers aremust it be solved in the cases of law and life science? 
2:39-5303,2:39-5313, or 239-7471.

•The PACE Report calls for an mcrease m tne t:uuuw­ment for financial aid and professorial chairs, as well as 

MARDI GRAS 

Anyone needing more tickets for the dance-a-than, extra tickets are available in the Student Activities office (1st floor LaFortune) now through Feb. 4th. 
MAKE $12,200 FOR COLLEGE WHILE 
YOU'RE GOING TO COLLEGE. 
Want a part-time job that doesn't hurt your grades? Or campus life? Give 
your local Army Reserve unit a weekend a month and a couple of summers 
during college, and they'll give you over$12,000 for college. 

Up to $4,000 in college aid is yours just for joining most units. Another $6,000 for four years of monthly weekends and two-week summer stints. Plus over $2,200 that you'll earn during two summer training periods. All while you'r'! getting the most out of college. And doing the most you can part-time for your country. 
You don't have to wait for college to join the Army Reserve. If you're 17 or older and a junior or senior in high school, join us now! There's no better part-time job in town. 
Interested? Call your local Army Reserve recruiter. 
SGT Hamilton 234 · 41a7 Call Collect 
~RMY RESERVE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

The Observer 
Design Editor.. ..........................J.P. Keyes Design Assistant ... Pete Whiter than you are, Brigcrte Goulet Proofreader .............................. Ray Charles Typesetters.......................... . .... BWD News Editor. . .................... Dave Copy Editor....................... ............ Kathy Editorials Layout .. .............. Miss Brown Features Layout... ..... Sarah Hamilton Supplement Layout ............... Mike Monk Sports Copy Editor .............. Ed Konrady ND Dar Editor... ..................... Mike Boyle 
Typists.. .............................. Mike O"Conner 
Ad Design . ........................................... Bob 
Photographer . .........................Scott Bower 
Guest Appearances .......... Ryan and his 30 
"'Belgium, man. Belgium!!" 
"I don't know, I don"t care" 

The Observer !USPS 598 9201 1s published Monday through Fnday and on horne football Saturdays except dunng exarn and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Darne and Samt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons rnay be purchased for $25 per year i$15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a mernber of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
----·-------­
-----------------------------·---------·---------­
The Observer Monday,January 31, 1983-page 3 

Olympian emphasizes devotion, discipline 
attended the fair and added that the
By TONI RUTHERFORD 
low attendance was a disappoint­ment. "Nothing comes to dreamers hut 
Stt1jj Reporter 
"We were hoping for at least I00 dreams." said Willye White in people. I was told that the mistake opening the second annual tltness was in scheduling it when Notre fair yesterday at Saint Mary's Angela Dame played UCLA." said Thds,"But 
Athletic Facility. I can't keep track of the games." 
The five-time Olympic participant Theis said the fair would probably went on to refute her opening state­be continued in some form next ment in her speech entitled year because interest was high "Motivation in Eve11•day Life." among participants. 

According to White, dreams are Carolyn Garber, M.S. of the Nutri­the source of future goals. tion, Nursing Faculty at Saint Mary's, "Dreamers are the saviors of the 
helped man the nutrition booth. world. Dream lofty dreams," she "! enjoyed the opportunity to said, "For as you dream, so shall you speak, but I fed this should have 
become." been held when more students In achieving the goals of your 
could be here. I enjoyed the stu­dreams, White stressed the need for dents I had, and was glad at the inter­determination, devotion, discipline, est shown. Now is when nutrition desire and drive. She expressed the 
and fitness choices must be made." belief that evef)'One is the master of At the nutrition booth Garber and his own fate. "You are what you Mary Anne McTigue, Nutrition Con­
preparingfor tonight's speech by FLOC president 
think you are," said White. "L~:t no sultant for the Dairy Council of 
Baldemar Velasquez at 6:15 in the Memorial 
man determine your fate." Northern Indiana, did informal 
Library Auditorium. (Photo bv Scott Bou'er) 
White said that it is not our bodies measuring of body fat percentage. that stop us from achieving our Garber also gave a presentation onFor '84 goals, it is our minds. She en­evaluating fad diets. She ~aid to couraged thost: in the audience to watch for miracle claims, one food strive for their desir~:s. l!sing "Bear" powers and missing nlltrients. Diets 
Bf)·ant as an t:xamplc. she warned discussed included the Cambridge not to wait f(>r tomorrow in making Diet and the Beverly IIills Dit't. 

WASHINGTON (AP)-Here, at a people who gt:t Social Securitv. food by the changt: in the Consumer dreams reality. The Health Departmt:nt hdd a glance, an: highlights of President stamps. child nutrition aid. r~ilroad Prict: Index. is forecast to increase 
--~~----~~~--~ booth on stres~ related illnesses, and Rt·agan's proposed hudgct for the rt·tirement. veterans' pensions. and recommended a prt:sentation to he 19H-f fiscal year, which starts next veterans' disability compt:nsation. held by tiail English. :\ID, lnterni~t. 

Reagan to propose defense hikes 
slightlv from last yt:ar·s 5.9 pncent.
Oct. 1: Taxes: the plan calls for tax in­Tuc~ .. Feb. .22 at-p.m. in tht' Regina
Ddt:nse: tht: budget calls for a S50
'>pending: SH-!H. "i hillion. an in­creases of Sl-!6 billion over three Lounge. 
nease of S-!:'>.5 billion, with 550 hit­yt:ars starting in !heal 19H6 if the l.t:m Joyner. stress managn. lion of the incrca~e going for economy is in a recovery and a hillion incrt:ase in ddt:nse spending presented a program called "How to ddensc. sdective "freeze" is enacted. The to S239 billion in tiscal 19H-! and a Relax." He focu~sed on the need to 
Revenues: S660 billion. an in­new taxt·s would include a S"i-a­distinguish bt:tween n~:eds and nease ofabout 56) billion. harrd lc:vy on oil. inneasing wants.
S.W billion increast: tht· following
Dd1cits: the budget foresees a tis­gasoline prices by I 2 cents a gallon. Student nurses checked blood 
year to 52--billion.
cal 19H-f deficit of S I H9 hill ion. and a surcharge on either income pressures at their booth. They down from the 19H5 ddicit now t·s­taxt·s or income. 
reminded t:Vcf)·one that blood umated .tt S20H billion. A ddkit of Assumptions: Reagan's plan "Workfare:" Reagan proposes to prcs~urc should ht: checked regular­Sl9·t billion is predicted for tlscal assumes that the economy will grow reyuire able recipients of food 
lv ht:causc sometimt:s high blood 19H"i. by 5 percent this yetr and -! percent prt:ssure has no symptoms. 
Spending cub: tht· budget an­in 198-f. that unemployment will stamps. wclfare and some other "Today is the first dav of!he r~:st of \lollv Sullivan. B.A.. psychology ticipates savings by delaying for six peak in mid-1983 and remain high government aid programs to take your life." said White. "and ye,tcr­faculty, talked ahout on the effects of months cost-of-living increases tiJr well into 19H-i. lntlation, measurt:d public service jobs. day·~ tomorrow." alcohol. Noting alcohol's past use as 
She then divulged ht:r st:ven steps an anesthetic, Sullivan used modern to success, which are: an~:stht:tics to illustrate alcohol's d~ 
I. Think feet on bodily function~. 

2. Listen According to Sullivan the cup­••• 5. Lt:arn hork state is brought on by 
-!.S~:ek anesthauon ot tht: ct:rt:hral cortex that "Chautauyua is going over real try to "get input" from the students "i. Pray and slurring and staggering by the well," and proves "thing~ can make by att~:nding "a differt:nt hall council 6. Bdicvc anesthctization of motor m usclcs. it without liquor if they arc at the meeting each week.·· ~.Do After these stages is nausea, uncon­

Campaign 
fhe finann· major said, "Cahle TV 
right timt: and piau:.·· She thinks the Smith would abo work to White concluded her spct:ch with sciousness, and possibly dt:ath.
would be good if economically failure of I ndergraduatc Night at prest·rve the fiddhouse. The ar­a poem stressing faith and rt:minded Theis presented a program on
feasible f()r studcms." Bertino also Senior Bar is bccau~t: ofbad time and chitecture major admits that it t'\'t'f)·one that "with faith. nothing is body image. She pointed out the
·•favors the u~c of Chautauyua Ball­place. Griffin also feels Cable TY would require a "large sum of as han.! as it set:ms. ·· changing views ofhistorv in relation
room" and the cre:nion ofan l·ndcr· would be "an important asset for moncv to repair" but it would be "a The fitness fair was organized hy to holly shapt:. She noted the trend
graduate Bar, although this "would Notrt: Dame." as it would provide shame to tear it down" as it could be \laf)· Theis, assistant director of the from Reuhenc~yue hcautics through
not be nt·n-~sarv" if a new Student Center is huilt. 
"more sport~ and more movies" for ust:d for dances or a movie theater. Counsding and Career Dt:vdop­the thin trend oftoday. Iter program ~tUdtilltS. lit' hclivcs ~tudent.~ "would he mt:nt Center. Designed w help ~tu­included information on overcom­Bill Smith would like to "put willing to pay for Cahle TV" smcc dcnts "overcome tht: mid-winter ing fat phobia, catalogs of larger size
Brian "Hounder" Brisson has 
time into improving certain things "some complain about not having blahs." this year's fair was largt·r than clothing and hcing happy with your­
"good idea~ to create atmosphere" 
on campus." Tht: llol\· Cross fresh­it." As part of the social life problem last vear's and featured booth~ on selfas vou arc. tions to the ~ocial space problem." man would restore the opportunity rna,· be "apathy." Snuth wot.ld try ro nutrition, <.·oping with qrt:ss. drink­Eric \lould. Ph.D.. Biology The Alumni sophomort: would like 
on campu~ and "provide real solu­
for students to rent the Knights of "improvt: communication~" he­ing, body image, acrohics, sports in­faculty, presented fitness testing, in to "remodd to Columbus building and Holy Cross tween students ami the administra­juries. heart rate and blood pressure. which he tested heart ratt:s after ex­
Lafortune bt:ttcr servt: the student~... He also would party rooms liJr their W•t'. He would tion. Theis estimated that 60 people ercise. like to rt·gain the right for "students 
to rent the Knights of Columbus building ti>r partie~." 
Some of Bris~on·~ other ideas in­clude promoting "incrt:ased interna­tional cultural awarenc~s" by getting the international ~tudents "more in­volved" and sponsoring a seminar or festival for them. 
The (iovernment major would like to "expand the late·n•ght food service at Darby·~·· below LaFortune. try to "· egrate transfer students" into ..: Cnivt:rsitv, and promote Cablt: TV "if students want to pay for it." Finally. Brisson would try to provide a "reduced meal plan" so students who do not eat three meals a day could save money by purchasing a plan with fewer meals. 
Bridget Griffin said, "apathy at Notre Dame is very apparent.·• The Lewis junior believes a "strong stu­dent government should exist to get more people interested and in­volved." She would do her best "to incorporate students' desires." 
The Government major noted 
L--------------------------------------------------------------­
~;, !lll!-NIISI__I.R!A·I"~~XWK'~a.e-)lll<j 
II
.:::. 

THERE IS STILL TIME TO JOIN THE NEW BALLROOM DANCE CLASS 
Wednesday, Feb. 2 will be the last opportunity to join the Ballroom Dance class that just started at Regina Hall on Saint Mary's Campus from 6:30pm to 8:00pm 
This class is being taught by Ray Sexton from Indianapolis and the total cost is only $25 for five 
weeks 0.,., ~ Sign up now in the v ~ Saint Mary's Student { j., ., Activities Office 0 · ' 284-4561 
\Zll~:tJ 
THIS OFFER IS LIMITED TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS ONLY. 

I ''Carol tr··e~ ~o watc~ what she eat~ ,,I 'bot ner e~es arOt't tvic~ erto~j'h. 


~----------------------~ 

The Observer Monday,January 31, 1983 page 4 

Repeated storms, rain 'wallop' California 

LOS ANGELES (AP) -Califor­force winds up to --IH mph. nians filled sandbags and cleaned up The weather service said debris yesterday during a brief sun­problems with a faulty satellite ny break in a series of punishing which doesn't allow storms to be storms that killed at least I I people tracked during the night have and caused more than 1171 million resulted in uncertainty about the damage. force of the next storm. 
The fifth storm in nine days, due Preliminary figures from the state to arrive later in the day, was ex­Office of Emergency Services pected to be milder than last week's showed 1 I people killed in last fierce storms, hut forecasters said week's storms, .3.3 homes and one 
yet another front brewing at sea was business destroyed, 3,528 homes likely to slam the coast today and and 5.39 businesses damaged and mark the beginning of yet another more than 2,252 residents tem­week of natural violence. porarily displaced. 
"We've been walloped by a storm One more home declared unsafe every 30 to 36 hours since Jan. 21, in \1alibu yesterday brought to 1 5 and it looks like the pattern's going the number of homes in that seaside to continue through Thursday at community barely clinging to the 
least," said Glenn Trapp, lead beach, said Los Angeles County forecaster for the National Weather sheriffs Sgt. Merlin Poppleton. Four Service in Redwood City. Malibu houses and the Paradise 
Yesterday's storm was expected Cove pier were destroyed during to pass mainly through Northern the storms. California. Trapp said the storm ex­The fishing pier at Pismo Beach in
The landmark Crystal Pier in the San Diego feet of the 56-year-old, 998-foot structure was 
pected today or tomorrow could San Luis Obispo County was leaning
community ofOcean Beach collapsed under the lost. (AP) 

dump up to 3 inches of rain along but still standing yesterday, said
force of surging waves Thursday. One hundred 

the coast with a potential for gale police dispatcher Shery Lange. It 
was one of many damaged piers, including the well-known Santa Monica pier, which was heavily 
damaged. Many residents spent yesterday
Justice department study links drinking, crime 
trying to undo some of the damage wrought by wind, rains and high 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Nearly ment said. The bureau added, however, that and 25. People who were employed tides that combined to rip apart one-third ofstate prison inmates in a The heaviest drinkers were found while "it is tempting to point to very before going to prison were some­piers, pull beach homes into the sea pioneer federal survey said they to be repeat offenders. burglars, heavy drinking as the proximate what more likely than the jobless to and flood low-lying areas. drank very heavily just before rapists and those convicted of as­cause of many crimes ... the survey be daily drinkers. Divorced people Red Cross volunteers distributed committing the crimes leading to sault, according to "Prisoners and strongly suggests that for many of­weremore likely to drink very heavi­mops, brooms, scrub brushes, buck­their imprisonment, the Justice Alcohol," a bulletin issued by the fenders these are typical daily drink· ly. People who had attended college ets and disinfectant in Orange Department said yesterday. department's Bureau of Justice ing levels." were less likely to drink heavily than County. spokeswoman Debby Buck­
And 25 percent of the prisoners Statistics. Very heavy drinking was defined those with less education. alew said yesterday. The storms had participating in the first nationwide The bureau said the Census as four ounces ofpure alcohol -the Half the inmates who had been caused about S I I million damage to survey of alcohol use by criminals Bureau survey of 12,000 inmates e4uivalent of eight cans of beer, drinking just before the crime had homes un Sunset Beach, Surfside and reported drinking heavily each day nationwide in 1979 found "a greater seven four-ounce glasses of wine or usually been drinking with com­Seal Beach. during the year preceding their degree of involvement with alcohol nearly nine·ounces of HO-proof liq­panions, most likely for more than The Red Cross sheltered six crimes, the department said. than had generally been an­uor. The bureau said this "would al­four hours. Forty percent had been families overnight, hut clo~ed down 
"Applied to current prison ticipated." most certainly produce severe drinking for more than tlve hours, its emergency center because population levels, this would mean "Even allowing for some exag­intoxication if consumed within a and 20 percent had been drinking people did not want to stop working that approximately I 00,000 inmates geration ofdrinking habits, it is clear limited time." for more than nine hours. on their homes. had been drinking heavily every day that alcohol has played a major role Half the white inmates and two­or nearly every day during the year in the lives of many prison inmates," thirds of the American Indian and 
before confinement," the depart-the bulletin saic\. 


BallEt, Jazz, Jane l=onba'sWoRkout 
Contact anqela abamson 7976 ffittCh W€Rn€R 3184







411---------------.... 
Alaskan natives drank very heavily, compared to only .20 percent of the 
Regan warns against 
black prisoners, the bureau said. Female inmates were only half as likely as men to drink daily or to 

cuts in defense budget 
drink verv heavily, the report added. Very heavy drinking was most WASIIINGTON (AP)-Treasury unless you come to that table very prevalent between the ages of l H Secretary Donald Regan warned yes­strong, the other side may think, 
~ l l?~Mi~ []] /Fillfrt []/FillftRl C[]~PUTER~ZElJ 

Dating 
Service~ 
Find a Date~ Don 't Hesitate 

Cflll 282-2 2 ~ l 

terday that cutting defense increases 'Well, if we just hold off, Congress or hy any more than the S55 billion somebody else will cut the budget recommended hy the Reagan ad­and we won't have to worry about ministration would endanger the it."' he said. l'.S. armament talks with the Soviet In two sets of talks. the l'nited linion. States and Soviet l'nion in Geneva 
Tht' spending recommended for have been negotiating reduction of the military in the proposed budget intermediate-range nuclear "will give us the defense posture weapons and strategic arms. In Vien­that we want. They can do this and na, negotiators are talking about maintain a strong defense," Regan reducing conventional forces. said on ABC's "This Week with The S55 billion reduction is a cut David Brinkley." in Reagan's original plan for increas­
"We're in some very serious ing military spending over the next bargaining now on disarmament and five years. 
~----·coMPLETE--~ Pope plans June 
( A Reminder thatthe Deadline BEAUTY
l ! 1 

I for Nominating a Senior Student I ~ SERVICE ~ visit to Poland 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) workers tired or jailed for union ac­Poland's Roman Catholic bishops tivities," said one Warsaw nun who 


I I I ~FASHION I 
f 
1 for the 1 l FLAIR l proclaimed "with great joy" yester­did not wish to he identified. l day that PopeJohn Paul II will return "If he comes in June, and nothing! to his native Poland on a second improves by then, some people will 
1 I Distinguished Student ll BEAUTYI
I pilgrimageJune IR think the holy father has put his 1 The announcement was in a letter stamp of approval on what is going 
read from pulpits in Poland and on in Poland," she said.
I I I ~~-' SALON
1 

i I I ~ :1 ·. \ * REDKIN ~ released simultaneously at the A woman outside St. Anne's
I j Vatican. It marked the first time the Church in Warsaw's Old Town said, \ I is monday, Jan. 31. I ~ . -' :, SCIENTIFIC ~ long-expected visit has been an­
"It's hard for me to believe. June is nounced in Rome. still so far away. Who knows whatllHAIR CARE CENTER! The June I H date was first circ­will happen in the meantime."
l I 
; ulated in November following a The pastoral letter did not say
I Nomination forms are available in I ~ Precision Cutting, Perms, ~ 
meeting between Polish leader Gen. how long the trip would last or men­Wojciech Jaruzelski and the Polish tion the controversial issue of the

I the Student Government Office in I ~ Correcting Hair Coloring ~ 
primate, Archbishop Jozef Glemp. pope's itinerary. The Communist LaFortune or the Alumni Office I ~ Next to C1ra's Restaurant ~ Despite yesterday's confirmation, government has reportedly ruledI J Evenings by Appt. J initial reactions from some Poles out a stop at Gdansk, the Baltic Sea were skeptical. port where the now-outlawed
I (201 Main Bldg.) I i 2009 Miami ~ 
"So many people are in jail, and Solidarity labor union was formed there is no amnesty for hundreds of during strikes in August 1980.
...________________, .___._.._.._..._._.,_.,_,._.._..r

\ I ~ 2SB-0733 ~ 
,. 
., 
-------------------------------------·-----­
The Observer Monday,January 31, 1983-page 5 
Oscars ahead 



Gandhi sweeps Golden Globes 
HOLL'Y\X'OOD (AP)-"Gandhi" 
won live awards at the -lOth annual 
Golden Globe ceremonies, includ­
ing best foreign film and best direc­
tor, while the comedy "Tootsie" 
took three awards. 
The films "E.T. -the Extra· 
Terrestrial" and "An Officer and a 
Gentleman" were honored with two 
awards each from the Hollywood 
Foreign Press Association on Satur­
day night. In television categories, 
"Fame," "Dynasty" and "Brideshead 
Revisited" also won two prizes each. 
The Golden Globes given to movies are often an indication ofOs­cars to come. tllm observers say. 
One of the warmest moments of the ceremony at the Beverly Hilton Hotel came when actor Dustin Hof­fman introduced Laurence Olivier for the Cecil B. DeMille award, honoring Olivier's contributions ro film. 
The ~tar-studded audience ap· plauded at length. 
"Gandhi," the epic biography of India's spiritual leader, Mohandas Gandhi, won best direcror honors for Richard Anenborough. The as­sociation also cited John Briley for the screenplay and the tllm as best foreign picture of 1982. In addition, Ben Kingsley, who portrayed Gandhi, won double honors as new male star of the year and best actor in a drama. 
"Tootsie" won Globes for Jessica 
Lange as best supporting actress, 
Hoffman as best actor in a comedy or 
musical and the film itself as best 
comedy-nw~•cal u• l Y82. 
Meryl Streep, the haunted con­centration camp survivor of "Sophie's Choice," was declared best actress in a drama. Julie Andrews was named best actress in a comedy or musical for her role in "Victor-Victoria." 
"E.T." won as best dramatic mo­tion picture and also collected a Golden Globe for John Williams' score. Williams drew the biggest laugh of the night when he made a sweeping gesture and knocked the top ofhis statuene onto the stage. 
Lou Gossen Jr., the tough-as-nails drill master of "An Olficer and a Gentleman," scored as best support­ing acror. The film garnered another award for best song, "L'p Where We Belong." 
Economic problems 

Nigeria orders Ghanian exodus 
LONDON (AP) -Hundreds of 
thousands of panicky Ghanaians, 
fleeing Nigeria by truck and foot to 
beat an eviction deadline for un­
documented aliens, have been 
tortured and persecuted by Nigerian 
authorities, Accra radio si!id yester· 
day. 
Many "denounced the atrocities meted· out to them by the Nigerian government" as they fled the country before the deadline at mid· night today, the Ghanaian state radio said in a broadcast monitored in London. 
The broadcast did not elaborate on the alleged atrocities. But some Ghanaians who fled have told repor· ters their exodus was a nightmare of beatings and sho0tings by Nigerians. 
Weary and hungry refugees hauling bundles ofpossessions were still trekking overland yesterdav on foot or in truck convoys across Benin and Togo, which lie between Ghana and Nigeria in western Africa. 
Nigerian President Shehu Shagari 
ordered the ma5s .evi.Ctien•-;Jan,..-17; 
blaming religious riots, unemploy­
ment and economic problems on 
the foreigners who flooded into 
Nigeria looking for work during the 
country's oil boom years. About half 
the estimated 2 million unwanted 
aliens are Ghanaians. 

Authorities in Nigeria have restricted coverage of the eviction by foreign news agencies. Accounts have been largely based on inter­views with refugees reaching the border, state-run radio broadcasts and newspaper reports. 
Repeated attempts by The As­sociated Press to contact Nigerian officials in Lagos have been unsuc-
Anniversary ofNazi rise remembered 

Interior Secretary]ames Watt addresses the United States Cham­ber of Commerce in Washington Friday, u•here he spoke on his department's record since taking office. ( AP) 
Student Activities will sponsor a public forum on the upcominq Referendum to continue the Campbell's Boycott. 
Featuring Baldemar Valesquez President and Founder of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC). He will address the student body in lieu of a debate, in which Campbell's has refused to participate. 6pm Monday, Jan. 31 Library Auditorium 
CORBY'S 
monday Night Special 
"LQdies Night" Cocktails all night 
Sl.OO 
~,ee 
Hot Cheese Nachos 9 pm--midnight 
Go ND Basketballets, Beat LaSalle 


l-" 

J 
' 
f 
f 
! 
l 
~ j 
I 
r 
JERUSALEM, Israel (AP) -Fifty years later, the Nazi Holocaust is never far from Israeli eyes and minds. It may thunder through a Menachem Begin speech, or turn up mutely in the number tattooed on a arm reaching for salt at a restaurant table. 
The 50th anniversary of the Nazi accession to power is being ob­served here as the 50th anniversary 
of the greatest disaster ever to befail theJews. 
Most ceremonies were solemn, though a grenade was hurled Sunday night outside the West German Em­bassy in Tel Aviv, damaging a car. There were no injuries and no one claimed ressonsibility. 
"To us. Jan. ~0 does not com­memorate the rise of Nazism. Cross it out and forget it. To us it is the beginning of the destruction," says Binyamin Armon, who heads educa­tional programs at Yad Vashem, the complex of buildings sprawled on a Jerusalem hill where the Holocaust is commemorated and documented. 
Yad \'ashern, which means "A place and A name" in Hebrew, was the main memorial site Sunday. In its darkened. low-ceilinged Tabernacle of Remembrance, a cantor recited prayers and a girls' choir chanted songs sung byJews on the way to the gas chambers. 
President Yitzhak Navon attended the ceremony and took the occasion to chastise Israelis tor the ethnic fricion between Ashkenazi and Sep· 
hardi  Jews.  Ashkenazis  are  from  
Europe  and  Sephardis  are  Middle  
Eastern.  

"Hitler did not differentiate be· tween Ashkenazis and Sephardis," he said, "so let us not do so either." 
High school students, Ashkenazi and Sephardi, wearing jeans and ten· nis shoes, padded across a stone floor engraved with the names of concentration camps and laid wreaths on a symbolic tombstone. 
Radio stations interviewed Israeli men and women who were in Ger­many when Hitler came to power. Many marveled still at how little they knew then of what would come. 
' 

cessful. Britain's Telecommunica­tions Department reported telephone and telex links with the Nigerian capital have been severed, apparently because of a tire at the city's communications headquarters last week. 
Reports reaching London said 100,000 Ghanaians were packing Apapa port near the Nigerian capital of Lagos, waiting for a freighter from Accra that can only carry 6,000 people. Only one Ghana-bound refugee ship is believed to have left Lagos in the past two weeks. 
On Saturday, the Nigerian govern­ment warned thousands of illegals swarming the Lagos docks to leave 
immediately  or  face  "ruthless"  
reprisals.  
Articles in  Nigerian newspapers  

meanwhile have whipped up resent· ment against "those who steal work from Nigerians." 
The Sunday Times of London said the propaganda campaign "makes a bloodbath dangerously likely" be· cause thousands of Ghanaians trapped in Nigeria may not be able to meet the deportation deadline. 
The paper reported "panic along the roads leading to borders, where the logjam so thick there is a 30· hour delay tor people trying to cross." 
Ghana, wracked by economic problems and political unrest, has appealed for international aid to help cope with the .crisis raised by the int1ux from Nigeria. U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar has called for an internation­al airlift. 

r 
I r ... 
I 
I 
t 
! I 
The Observer 

Budget At-A-Glance Billions of Dollars 
800­
600­400­200­
0­

Source: Office of Management and Budget 

This chart shows the estimated deficits in the Federal budgetfor 1983, 1984, and 1985, according to the Office ofManagement and Budget. The federal deficit will skyrocket to a record $208 billion in the current fiscal year, jar above last year's record $100.7 bil­lion, administration figures indicatedFriday. Among the causes of the increased deficit is Reagan's proposal to increase defense spending from $208.9 billion in 1983 to 1238.6 billion in 1984 and S277.5 billion in 1985. Reagan is expected to deliver his 1984 tax and spending proposals to Congress today. ( AP) 

January 31 

Criss Cross rt949t Robert S<odmal-: USA 8/W 87 m.n German em1gre Robert S<odmak d~rected tn's Qu>ntessent1a1 111m no11 tale ol dupliCity and VICt'm,zat,on w1th the young Burt Lancaster ensnared by Iemme faTale Yvonne De Carlo W>th Dan Duryea 
Admission 

AnnentJerg Aud.,SniteMuseum $ 2. o o 
..........---lr1U ~II t(3lti T----__,..... 

~ ~................................................................................................................... 






ATTENTION JUNIORSII 
,,................................................................................................. 
Seating Reservations for 
JuniOR paRents' Weekenb PResJbent's 01nneR 
will beheld Monday, January 31 Tuesday, February 1 7-9 p.m. in the Nazz. 
NOTE: *Maximum of 61.D.'s per person 
~......................................:.~~~~:.~~~!.~.:.~.9..~=~~?.~.~...........................~ 
Monday,janua1ry 31, 1983-page 6 
Falsified records 



City suspends building inspector~ 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -The 
city suspended I8 building inspec­
tors yesterday after a newspaper 
charged that they had falsified time 
sheets so they could spend working 
hours in taverns or at home, Mayor 
Richard Berkley said. 

In addition, Codes Administrator Jack White was ordered "removed from his position," and city oft1cials said he would retire. 
Berkley said he "insisted" that City Manager Robert Kipp take ac­tion after he read the allegations in a copyright story in Sunday's editions of the Kansas City Star and Times. 
Kansas City has been the site of two major structural failures -the July I7, 1981 collapse of two suspended walkways in the lobby of the Hyatt Regency Hotel in which I 14 people were killed, and the col­lapse of the Kemper Arena roof in 1979, in which no one was injured. 
"We must have a thorough inves­tigation of the Public Works Depart­ment from top to bottom," Berkley said, adding that he was considering a grand jury investigation and calling in the FBI. 
He said the city council would be given a full report at a meeting Mon­day. 
The Star and Times said two ofits reporters had followed 18 of the city's 46 inspectors during a two­month period that ended last week, and compared their observed ac­tivities with their ofllcial time sheets. 
Each inspector was found to have falsified work sheeb. the newspaper said. The inspectors spent time in bars or restaurants, ran personal er­rands or simply went home early, it added. 
Among the 18 observed were the two inspectors who had been as­signed to the -!2-story Hyatt during its construction in the late 1970s. 
At a news conference, Berkley 
said the allegations raised new 
doubts about inspections at the 
Hyatt, although he said contractors .also had responsibility for ensuring proper construction. 
'Responsibility' cited 
Laxalt says Reagan will run again 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Nevada Sen. Paul Laxalt said yesterday that President Reagan has a respon­sibility to run for another term, but he added that Vice President George Bush might not be the favorite for the GOP nomination if Reagan retires. 
Laxalt, the new general chairman of the GOP and the senior senator from Nevada, said the Republican presidential nomination would be "up for grabs" if Reagan does not run for a second term. 
But Laxalt, a close Reagan friend who took over the top party spot last week, said he is personally con­vinced Reagan will run again. 
"Considering the political and economic circumstances (in which) we now find ourselves, he really has a responsibility to run again," Laxalt said on CBS' "Face The Nation." 
If Reagan does not seek reelec­tion, Laxalt said, the GOP nomina­tion would be "a brand new ball game,'' with Bush not necessarily the leader. 
"Of course, George Bush would 
be a strong contender. Whether he 
would be the leading contender is 
another matter. I just frankly don't 
know," Laxalt said. "When you have 
a primary structure of the kind we 
have now, I think it would be totally 
up from grabs." 

Failure of the economy to im­prove this year could cut Reagan's 
chances for another term, but Laxalt said he thinks the administration's program will work. 
"We have to determine sometime during this year whether this presidency is viable. Ronald Reagan, 
myself, nobody else is going to take the Republican Parry or the country over the cliff," he said. "I feel better 
at this point concerning the viability of the Reagan program than at any 
time since he has been in office .... I think we are going to have a very, very good year." 
Heavy acceptance 


British seat belt law b~;~gins today 
LONDON (AP) -"Clunk, click," read the ads, and starting today, Britons must do just that -or pay a fine ofup to $75. 
But rather than rage against anoth­er state intrusion into their lives, people here have greeted the new mandatory auto seat-belt law with a typically BrHish mixture of good­natured acceptance, eccentricity and more than a bit ofconfusion. 
The Department of Transport sponsored the "clunk, click" ads in newspapers and radio. The ads are part of the department's campaign to acquaint Britons with what it calls the merry sound offastening belts. 
Department officials predict nine out of I 0 people will obey the new law. 
A thoroughly unscientific As­sociated Press sampling of pub con­versation, radio phone-in shows and letters to the editor tends to back up the tlndings, uncovering few of the diehard beltless. 
Even Britain's generally right· wing press has been near unanimous in urging the nation's 20 million d11ivers to conform, eagerly pitching in with stories about how easy and comfortable it is. 
The nation's largest-selling paper, 
the tabloid Sun, which daily prints 
pictures of .undraped women on 
page 3, has had its models wear seat 
belts all this past week. "Belt up, like 
lovely Linda," advised one caption, 
which added the caution: "keep 
your eyes on the road fellas." 

LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! 
Omega Productions, Inc. 

is now opening their Mobile Music Division. We can provide any type of music for any type of event. Parties are our specialtv. Custom music programming is available Call 684-8100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 
In the country where George Or­well warned of the coming of Big Brother in his novel "1984," only the Tory bastion of The Daily Telegraph has dissented, question­ing -"another precedent... created for the state to tell us what is good l()r us." 
Auto crashes kill or maim 30,000 people each year in this nation of 56 million. Safety experts estimate the new law will save I,000 lives annual­ly and prevent 11,000 serious in­juries. 







Monetary eJqJerts open finance foru,m today 
ByTomPace 
News Staff 

A banker, a futures expert, and a securities specialist will highlight the finance forum beginning this af. ternoon in the Hayes Healy Auditorium. 
James H. Carey, executive vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank, will open the 25th annual forum at 
4:30. The subject of his address will be "The Impact ofStructural Change and Technology on United States In­dustrial Competition." 
Also slated to speak today is Her­bert Evers, president of ContiCommodity Services, Incor­porated. Evers is expected to make the role of futur<"~ in today's economy the subject of his address which is at 8 tonight, also in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
Charles R. Schwab, the featured speaker of the forum, will be here tomorrow night. Schwab, chairman and chief executive officer of Charles R. Schwab & Company, Inc., will concentrate on his specialty. the securities industry. Schwab, who will speak at 8 in the Center tor Continuing Education Auditorium, is expected to draw a crowd be­cause of recent news of Bank of America's interest in Schwab & Co., 
Inc. 

This Finance Fomm marks the sil­ver anniversary of the event. In honor of the occasion, Daniel Cul­len, John Carretta and Paul Conway, the forum's founders, will all be present. They will be able to judge for themselves whether or not this year's forum will continue the tradi­tion of exposing students to the i:>sues confronted every day in the business world. 
... Festival 
continuedfrom paRe 1 
Talking to the speakers at the recep­tions is one of the most exciting parts of the festival." 
The student talent show, which Harris says is "usually a riot," will t.ake place Feb. 12. A fashion show is scheduled for March 5 in the 
Monogram Room of the ACC. This event is completely planned and ex­ecuted by the students and is generally one of the most popular events of the festival. All events in the festival, except the fashion show. are free. 
A new feature of the festival is a women's volleyball tournament, beginning Feb. 6. The annual men's basketball tournament began Satur­day. 
This is the tifteenth year ofthe fes­
tival, the purpose of which is "to 
t:nlighten the Notre Dame com­
munity about the Black American 
experience," according to Harris. 
-------~~--­
"j 


Editorials 
Monday,January 31, 1983-page 7 
Lost and found 
Saturday night, I went looking for the Lost and low for that indexed quality that will let us graduates had accrued. Nonetheless, he stuck 
idealistic. Generation. I was in a funk. and I thought that detine ourselves for future generations. In it out until graduation and went on to be the Only rarely, however, was I that stupid. looking for some answers was as good a way as doing so, we have effectively cut the last line tlrst cabinetmaker in my memory that could My friend, like most of us, was too damn any to kill whatever time wasn't already dead, between us and humanity. What, in fact, read the New Testament in the original.
we sure ofexactly who he was. And too scared to late on a Saturday night. have been seeking is a title that we have al­Only he didn't. 
be something else. ready tilled. so that we may go on with the This past summer I saw him at one of those 
He thatfindeth his life shall lose it . .." mundane chore of performing the duties parties people have for the sole purpose of The Lost Generation.
1oe Musumeci 
prescribed only by our actions in the past. 
bringing people together who wouldn't or­Quite a while ago, another carpenter quit We want to be a lost generation. We are dinarily see each other at parties. I asked him his job (not, to the best of my knowledge. a
Looking In 
afraid that if we "lind ourselves," there won't how the cabinetmaking business was going. 
cabinetmaker) and took up another. because he time to run. "Oh, I'm not doing that anymore. Damn, he thought it was a better one. I wonder what You n:member the lost generation; Everybody wants to know how to think of those people are low ... I just couldn't see would have happened if. a couple of weeks 
Fitzgerald wrote about them. and so made themselves, how to name the face in the mir­.myself spending the rest of my life working 
into his new job. he had thought, "Damn, them what he wanted them to be. Faulkner ror. Fear of not knowing leads to all kinds of with people like that." 
these people are low . looked all through Jefferson, :'1-lississippi. and trouble and misunderstanding, not being able I was a little disappointed. In fact, I hated Late Saturday night, I found the Lost still couldn't lind them. They hide from the to say, "I did this yesterday, therefore I will do him for a little over a week. lt wasn't that he Generation. They were sitting down in the 
reality of themselves, because the grass is so this tomorrow." Finding out that we really had sold out. We all do, sooner or later, and it's Nazz, listening to a group make music just l(>r much greener on the other side of their col­don't know leads us to a ~ruffed trunk of lies a necessary experience of life. It wasn't even the sake of making music. They will probably lective psyche. I once heard a quote at­that we can tell when we ask for our own \D. that he gave up because he couldn't accept not be doing it forever. I stayed awhile. and tributed to Goethe -"Find myselfi Hell, if I "Are you old enough to face the real world? the people he wanted to work with. although I listened, because I wanted to he lost a little 
found myselt~ I'd run away." C'mon. kid, let's see that :vtBA -hold it so I never could reconcile myselfto his reasoning. while with them. 
I'm reasonably sure that Goethe didn't say can read it." It was because he destroyed all the hopes I Some people are too lJu,,y just liz•ing to it. at ka.'t not in such practical terms. hut this I once knew a friend that wanted to be a had of his being the one to drag a generation bother with getting lost..Hark. a friend ol is the thought that hit me as I sidestepped the carpenter. Actually, he wanted to he a cabinet­intent on losing itselfout of the closet. I knew mine from home. though mature lJevontl bis 
puddle~ that Indiana was bleeding Saturday maker. and bridled at my confusion ofthe two. that he could go to an exclusive prep school years, is too young to want to /Je lost..\lost night. That was not unusual. hut he insisted on and still become a cabinetmaker. I knew that, freshmen are, ez•en those u•ho don't go to We are another Lost Generati<'n. tinishing his education at the very exclusive even though he had spent all of his formative Notre Dame. Tomorrou· moruing, docturs Several years ago. \Ve set out to lind our­college prep school we both attended. The years in the lap of legislative luxury, he could will trv to find him in atumourat tbe base ol selves, the bastard children of a ~ociety that Jesuits were not too pleased with the thought accept a class of people different from his 
his bmin. Dedications are tedious andfutile. long ago t<>rsook the ideab of continuity l(>r of this. t<>r it would have eradicated the per­own. if only for the sake of the craft he loved. Please share my prayer that Ibis little cahmec the goal of expediency. We have looked high fect college acceptance record their As a high ~chool student, I wa~ often very retains the spleudour ofits ll'Orkmausbip. 

Rest inpeace, Irish hockey 
\\"hen :\otre Dame ~ports lntormation campus leader~ and team captains. st.-eking to have gotten nothing hut rubber stamp ap­Face it -hockey simplv is not ;~ national Dirn:tr Roger \"aldiserri heard .\likl· Ortman re,torc the Hl-or-so "cholarship~ w tho~e proval from the Board l(>r 2"i yt'ars. Because of sport. like ha,kethall. ba~ehall and l(>othall It was coming to tov. n this pa~t weekend. his non-protlt ~ports ( 20 hockey. I I track. four you guys. the1· were forced to do something is one played almo't exclu~i,eh· in the ex· reaction wa~ predic.:table. baseball. t·tc. ). they didn't want to do tor the tir~t time ever." treme north. Therefore. it alwa\~ \\a' tlitficult 
"'\\"h.Jt's he c1'>ming for'" he 1s repor~ed to Our argument was put on paper by then­Athletic Director Gene Corrigan ushered in for the entire !'>tudent hod\· to get \ t'fl han· asked with a chuckle. "to ~an· hockev'" hockev captain and Rhode~ Scholar candidate a rclre~hing new progrt·s~ive philosophy in t·nthu!'>ed about tht· "lrhh leers·· Con'i'tcnt 
~orrv Hoger (;reg \kredith. in the form of a per,onalized January. 19H I. and 'oon all of our recom­winning 11Ja\ han· hdpetl O\Trcomt· '<tudt·nt kttt'r to e\TfY member of the l niYersity's mendation' were in place. ignorance of the 'port. hut that nen·r h;lp­Board of Trustee~. The kttt-r was ~igned hy So the deeply-rooted hurt I now feel. since pened
Michael Ortman the captain' ofe'-ery varsit\ ll'am. except "oc­hot'kt'\. ha~ been ~crapp('u us a var,itv sport is 
But taking into considt'ration '\otrc· D.tnh ' 
ccr..md delin·rt·d at tht· Board's ~pring somn•·hat undt·rstandahk. And it'~ no M't rl't 
academtc standanh. con't'tcnt "innin).! "·"
Guest Columnist tlltTting 111 1\.ev Bist an1e. l·la. that l.dt\ Smith, tht· onl~· varsit1 hockey 
unlikeh I ace it -hod.;n " not Cllll,akrt d 
l'hc it't!l'f COil!atned t'•\ <> llt'.Jill poinb: coach :'\otre Dame n er h,t, had. is at rock bot­
Ill he .t 'POrt general!\ pia' nl h' 111t nl.to 
l ; '\otre Dame --. " k;~der \\hen it starh tom. In fact. eHTnHle who ever ha' heen at all 
giant-'\otre Jl.une·, ac.tdemic gn •Lind 111 .,., \\ 1!.11 "·'' r·t.rd,· " 'ocial 't·.lt d•d take ••11 a •.lilting had;. the dkcts wo11ld he It-It in even clo~t· to Lefty i~ hurting. 
did not allow l.t'fl\· "mllh Ill ,t,~emblt-a 11.11 '' '· 
l'\1"1 or ·.\•)rl.... \\hl··: <.'.a' -~ ....h.~,.·l' t•, ,)Jan: nn .nhktic d<"partmcnt in the nHmtn. and 2) the I trust C.ene Corrig.Jn. perhaps more than 
al champ1on,lup c.ilihrc team. '\•.•netll< :, ..,_
!ll<High;, ~\ Uh <>U Ill th< ._lc:!li.'\" d( lrt'h i nilcr,il\ ·, compliann· wtth Titk IX was any man I nTr han· been as,uciated with in '\otre Dame ,h,><tltl he, ommnodnlt•'' ''· •gIt,'' ),, • It>ng ·"·erd ue. t·ollt-ge athletics. Anti t'H'n though l ha\e not ahlt· t<1 'ltck tll it, ~ell llllJ""l'd 'Ianda:-,;·. 
t-,r ilh 1 "'~lPt!it ). :i1e !ll.lj'HI('. ,: -..~,u \\llo \X,. !l!.td,· tnur rn-ommcndation,. heard an adt·quatt' .lll'''er to the question. 
still tield a I"Ul' rt'Sfit•c·tlliJ/e h<Khl'\ [, .1111 
·!1111 j k.nc:\ J11 .• htll j ·nrr~··i u'llilf1 lll~l\ he!)~ ' 'l.•li ilK mnr.t!<>rll!lll •m 'L"holar,hip~. 2) ··\\ h.u h.tppt·ned to tilt' endowment nHme'''' 
.;r,h 1 , ....:n •npul..· .··. :(I~ .t11".,£1l.. ;)t.T... J~tenl. .ic'i\:·l•·prom<Jtt·llo<h<''.) ·ILTl'atc an,·ndow­I nw't bdin' that n en .tltt·rnatin,· ha~ been Oh '"fl' the 'tuJcnt' Jlllllpt',l •n '' 
l}lll'd!l .:~c ··)pl'ltl!r,..l(.' •J, ~nt ...pnng nt lllt:nt fu11•: t<'lll'ip lulltl illl' non·protit bearing considered..md th.u the .tx had to fall handw.tgon thrtT 'l'.lf' ago. \\,1\ in).: · "'' '· 
~ ~n·'i.f J i hclpl 41 -caJ ,i '. :: ~lp~r!: ~n dn 1i 1i..,,·;tnlpu" 'f'"rl' and 1 ~CII'll£111 ''ith Title IX In offering But it "till hurts. ~ttHI ..,L.tging prutt:'-lt'-1 To ~~t\l' hot h.l·\ ! .,1 "H. -~~ .. ,.1\ ~ ~ :\J... ~!__,,. ~lj~·i ·.;1-:;("! ·~pt•rt·, ,.-IJ,,l:lr,lllp' t•• "''nwn .nhkt<'' It's .m incredible shame th;ll tbe Jmin·r~it•· one thing thn ne\er 'lTillnl 101 h .tf,;, · 
\lit r iltc l II·"' ;·,n:. ,,d!11!i' ,(r;.!nr' •.lapped l'h,· i"L -uit "a' a h;l!->ch.tll h1ttn·, Jrcam -in collegiate 'pons has to cut ha~·k. But simpk was rail; hl'hind tloc t< .tmln hu\ ong lh k< i • .i. Pl,lL!ftlfllliH 1 111 !he liil.r;ll:.~ ld -.llH,L.tr~t,ip.._ ''"'-.\\till h>ur l(,r.tour economics and a dett·rior;tt ing b;~"· ofsrutkn1 The tight i' gull<· ·Tndu\1 "~'Pit .. h;t• I.,·. !<; alhlc·~·~~ Iii fltH1-p· · ··!( t:.(. l!t"Lil!IH~ '-~POrt:"-l : >nc· admini,tr;!l<>r llll•.kr till' (,olden Dome support apparent!\· ldi :'\otre Damt· no the crv ~··t n1ni'. :~·~-~~nflr"l: 1lor.~~ ·\t!P ihlrndtc!t»f later tole! me. I ;HlKr' llt·,hurgl! .md Ju\TC choi<'t'. Rest in pean 

Art controversy continues 
\\:1.11 \' .lrt' t inn beautiful building. largt·r than another s\ mho! ol gn·.ttnc" tl.c 
.\n .tgc <1ld c••ntrcl\ ·. -,, ., 'h-r<· :11-c probahll Will n a hoti,t.' ''wrapped "ith toilet paper Naturt· is beautiful hn·au.~t· it b urttouchnl 
great pnanud oiChcop'. ~Ill' i' the <lith t•>r•c .1' Ill:Ill\ ddJllHI<>n~ ,[> IIICfl .liT :lrt IOflil'. :bIll h• •llldt·nt". it i' um,idt-rt·d ;1 me,s. \\'hen a In man. Christo chooM?' these· surroundings of comp;~rison. If thiS i' modern man·, ··nn· .lll\ ).:filliP of detii:ttlon~ then· art· "lllll' huildill)~ i' wrapped with polyurethane fabric ti>r absurd projects likeSurmumled Island, in tribution to conHlKnH>ratile llltlllument'. we "hi< h .m: •ccurate "·hill'' •I her' l1.1ng on the h\ Jn arti't it i~ cun~idernl "a dramatic and which he will tran,tl•rm two i~lant.b in tht· Bi'­~hould all feel emharr.t~!'>nl. Thi' prowct i,. lrulgc· <>I \:tlidn-. Chri,toJ"··achdt lie, on the hc.tutJiul experience·· c;~vnc Ba\· into a pink splotch of plastic. or more like a ( ;uinness Book curio~it\ th.m .1 frin):!c-l'aller Curtain. a gianr. tupperware-or;,mge monument. -'O Chrhto dc~crihes one of hb next works curtain strung acros~ a pretty Colorado Admittedly. LhrJSto also ha' wonhwholc 
Joseph Ba~quc Entitled w·mfJfJed Reichstag. thi~ project in· land~t·;tpe. This injectiim ofgaudy pla~tic into projects ot legitimate art. Tbe (,ales. .1 pn•iet t \olve' !.•king a magnitlccnt building in We~t nature is about as tasteful a.' placing plastic for Central Park in Nt·w York. tiH: W"mf!Jied lkrlin .md wrapping it with polyurethane flamingos on the front lawn. lf'alku·ays ml\.;m~as City, and even hb famou'
Double Take 
fabric and datTO!! ropes. Christo claims that Running Fence in California .tre creations of · !tke t lothing of skin. it (the fabric) will ha' e Christo·~ grandest proJect is Tbe .HastafJa merit. ilowe,-er, the polnJreth;me te.tl fnr <.hrt,to'' t•xhihtt. currentiv on displa,· at the tht· 'pec.:ial hc:aut\· of irnpert inulCt'" To an of A!Ju Dbaf>i. a pt:rmant·nt, gargantuan wrapping object., olkn junip~ beyond the 
'nitc· \lu,eum of ·.-r. "a colleuum ot <Hlloookcr 11 1"""-' more like a damaged p~ ramid that will be erected t<•r the lnitt·d reasonable houndrie~ of art. onh to 'r<gtn.tltt' .tnd indu·-1 riou' crc.Jti\ itv on a 'tructur, hein~< .,,·,:rtd i(lr renovatiun A' art. Arab Emiratt·s out of over 5<JO.OOO ~tainle" depreciate the valut· of whatever it con'f' ,,·,mdi"''. ,t..lk .Ju't !u>w murll ..,r it can he •I i' no rnun: rl1.111 a cunou' and eccentric ~tecl oil barrels as a "symbol of the Emirate Or does it' An age old controver~v nm 
.•·.w.krnl .1rt b an cntirdv <ltlkrent que~-on.mstro,it\. an ugl\·. modt·rn cape t·overing a and the greatne's of Sht'ikh /.aycd... It will he tinues. 
The=Observer====== Editorial Board Department Managers 
Bo:\· Q, .\'otre Dame, 1.\' 46556 
Editor-in-Chief......,.......................Michael Monk Business Manager......... .....Tony Aiello
The Obsen•er is the independent newspaper published hy the students of the l'ni­
Managing Editor.......... ..... Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz
versity of :'1/otrc:: Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of eit'ler in~titutiorJ. The news is reported as ac­
SMC Executive Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe PrQduction Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editoriab represent the opinion 9f a 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majonty of the Editorial l:loard. Commentaries, letters. and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ..............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakle'
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor .................... joseph Musumeci
and the fret· expression ofvarying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3,1966
(219) 239-5303 

--~---~----------~
r w 

~S tt0 W C fi~SiiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMondiiiiiiay,Janiiiiiiuary3iiiiiil,
198iiiii3piiiiiage8 


Dogged ndotntion 
'V[hen a dog comes to you, tongue lagging and tail wagging, gaze V\' riveted on your eyes, you should be happy. 
Adog offers adoration freely and gives you an opportunity to express love with the simple gesture ofpatting its head. Ifpeople took simple gestures to mean so much, perhaps the world would be a happier place. 
When a dog comes to you, offering adoration for a wave ofa hand, you should smile inside. ·The world of men is not so simple. While l was home for ~· Christmas, Penny, the family poodle, came to me, offering adoration. Few moments in my life have been sadder: 
Penny is my mother's dog. She follows my mother faithfully and tirelessly. After a decade, she still whines in near-desperation when Mother leaves the house without her -and she still jumps and yaps endlessly in joyful greeting when Mother returns. In Penny's mind, 
out on n limb 
every ttme Mother leaves must seew uke it wi!l be the time she doesn't return. The dog doesn't have the casual certainty ofself­-importance that men have developed -she still thinks every mo­ment without someone's love is an eternity. Until recently, Penny only came to other members of the family 
, when Mom wasn't around. Silly as people are, we were twistedly proud ifany ofus succeeded in prying Penny's attentions away from Mother. People, convinced oftheir own worth, take pride in stealing
t.. 
for themselves love that is so freely offered to others. ) . While l was home for Christmas, I didn't have to steal Penny's at­tention. She left Mother and came searching for a simple gesture. I sadly obliged, patting her head and talking baby talk, which sh,.· took as a proofofJove. Penny is dying. She knows it; and, as she offers adoration once reserved exclusively for my mother, we know it, too. 
She sleeps in my mother's bedroom. Time was when she would not leave while Mother slept: it was clearly her duty to protect Mom from beasties and goblins and things that go bump in the night. 
Now, in the middle ofthe night, Penny i-oams the house looking for a waking soul to comfort her. A pat on the head, offered sadly, seems fragile protection from the goblins of the eternal night she faces. 
Her eyesight and hearing are failing. The attentions ofstrangers, once scorned, are now meekly accepted;partly because she is no longer so able to judge who the strangers are. Tongue lagging and tail wagging, she comes more frequently to my father and my sister, bartering adoration for comfort. 
I wonder ifshe realizes she is making up for years ofignoring them. When my time comes, l hope it will be so easy to make up to those l have ignored or scorned. 
Just before I left home, I said my own little goodbye to Penny. We always had an understanding about dinner -she would beg for table scraps and Iwould refuse to give her any. Never, in all her years ofsupplication, did l break down. l didn't want her to get fat, and per­haps l didn't want herto depend on my generosity, and possibly in my self-important humanity, my appetite just took precedence over any canine's. Whatever the reason, I never fed Penny from the familv table. ­
But I wanted her to know it wasn't because I didn't love her. So, 

one night shortly before the end ofthe holidays, when I couldn't finish my plate, I gave her the scraps. She didn't understand the im­perfection of my simple gesture, or the bittersweet fullness of the moment. But she wagged her tail appreciatively and gazed intently into my eyes. 
I think I smiled. Dogs have such a way ofaccepting love in whateverform they find it. Dogs have such a way ofoffering love freely. Perhaps they can teach the old master something new. 

What's the score? 
W
e all crowded into the huge room for a long after­Iwondered curiously where in the world Digger (not noon ofsports. First, there would be the Notre his real name) had gotten such an obnoxious red coat. Dame vs. UCLA basketball game, followed by hours of 
"Okay, the second halt's beginning," said Steve. Super Bowl pre-game and post-game hype with the ac­
"Everyone take two shots." tual playing of the game sandwiched in between. 
We had been joined by a latecomer. It f"as (youEveryone grabbed a seat. 
guessed it) my roommate Greg (not his real name). ByI figured the Irish could win this game. Two bowls, default he was entrusted with Rowan, Love, and Spen­one filled with Ruffles, the other with French onion dip, cer, but through a little ingenious fanagling. he attained were all I needed as I sat down to watch. The majority of the rights to Sluby, and finally staked his claim to the my companions had a slightly different afternoon in entire UCLA squadmind. 
"Okay, noW let's get these rules straight," said Dave 1 Paxson decided to have a big second hall-, and Dave 1 (not his real name). "A shot for every time we score, finished his second quart of liquid. and another for every time our player scores, right?" "Who got that rebound"' asked Dave 2. "Was it 
"Yeah, but you gotta pick two players," said Dave 2 Dolan?" (not his real name). "I get Price ari.d Dolan." "No, it was Kempton," informed Steve. "That's a shot for you again, James!" James barely mumbled his acknowledgement fromChris Fraser beneath the brown beanbag he had somehow crawled under. Steve happily filled James' shot glas~ for him. 
Dave 1had actually resorted to cheering against Pax­fentutes son. Paxson had exploded offensively for the Irish in the second half, and as if that weren't enough. "I'll take Varner and Barlow," claimed Vince (not his 
"Hey, Dave, Paxson got that rebound," shouted real name). "It's a shot for every time Notre Dame 
Vince. "Know what that means, don't you?" scores, and another tor every time one of your players Dave was already filling his glass. takes a shot, gets a rebound, or commits a foul." 
We were down by five. I knew we weren't out ofit byOn the television, the national anthem was on its any means, and Iwas glad they had taken Varner out. I'd home stretch. "It's almost time for the starting lineups," had a hunch that they should. Where was Barlow. I won­said Steve (not his real name)."How about two shots in dered? And more importantly, where were my Ruffles? I honor ofyour player being introduced?" 
still had a half-bowl of French onion dip to contend 
The idea was seconded and the motion carried. 
with, and the bag ofpretzels someone had offered me They were startng Andree. That was all right, I guess, just didn't seem to do the trick. 
but I wished they would start Sluby as well. Sluby made As the score seesawed between a two-point and a
things happen. four-point gap, Dave 1 had given up cheering agairtst
l poured myselfa glass ofCoke. Paxson. Besides, he desperately wanted Notre Dame to
"All right. Kempton got the rebound, put it back up win. "Anybody know what the score is?' he inquired.
and scored. How many is that?" asked James (not his "I think it's 53-49, or somethinglike that," said Vince. 
real name). "Three shots," answered Vince. "One be­"In fact, I'm sure ofit, I think." 
cause we scored, and two more because Kempton got "Somebody wake up James," said Greg. "He might
both a rebound and took a shot." Vince was on a roll. want to see the end of this game."
Varner had fi:>ur points already. "What's the score?" asked Dave I.
James, on the other hand, was in for trouble. 
Kempton had made his presence known in the game, Well, UCLA won again. It really didn't bother me a and he had only just begun. On top of that, Sluby was whole lot, because although we lost, we played well. James' other player. Kenny Fields (his real name) had gotten a key rebound. 
"Hey, UCLA called a timeout, you guys," announced It was just the way the ball had bounced. But there was Dave I, whose two players were Paxson and Buchanan. nothing for the Irish to be ashamed of. So I didn't feel "Should we all have a shot for that?" too bad about the loss. Neither did my friends. I don't 
"Let's not get ridiculous here," saidJames as the com­think halfof them knew what was going on. mercials began their appearance on the set. "Hey, who's 
I thought back to something my dad (not his real that guy on the TV there? Didn't he go to Notre Dame? 
name) had told me long ago, about there being some 
How about a shot tor that?" 

things more important than winning the ga,me. Like just They tried everything. Incentives form shots were 
being with your friends and having fun watching it. tossed up for discussion. A player's entrance into the 
"I think we lost,'' said Dave 2. 
game, free throws taken, individual turnovers, and the "Yeah, we did," confirmed Vince.
goaltending call on UCLA all were nominated. The But their spirits were not broken.
voting was simple. Those able and willing took shots. 
"Hey, when does the Super Bowl start?" asked (~reg.
James didn't. Sluby and Kempton had had an active first "Is there any more of this stuff?"
half. We were up by one at the half. We were doing well. There was no rt:ason for the tun to end yet. An<.l u Mv Ruftles were almost·gone, thanks to Dave 2. really wouldn't matter who won. 
Abusive penguin unstuffs shitts 
C
austic abusive, irreverent, and the -16-year-old Australian-born car­political bias that makes his work so often downright mean, Pat Olip­toonist churns out for the llniversal successful. His business is ripping hant stands at the fore ofthe ranks of Press Syndicate. Vastly different the stuffing out of stuffed shirts, and American political cartoonists. Ban from any ofhis contemporaries in exposing the wrongs of self­This Book, his sixth collection of both styie and content, his unique righteousness; human weaknesses editorial cartoons, reaffirms his cartoons created a nrw movement that are not el'clusive to any politi­status as the foremost commentator among American editorial car­cal persuasion. Liberals and con­on the American experience and toonists. servatives, commies and apple-pie serves as a hilarious pop history of In contrast with the popular eaters, all are prone to human in­the recent events between_july smudgy, heavy style of such well­anities and open targets for Olip­1981 andJuly 1982. known cartoonists as Herblock and 
hant's acid wit. Mauldin, Oliphant's spontaneous 
Oliphant's work has, and will Dennis Ryan and vivid style is easily recognizable continue to, vacillate with the politi­with its "squiggly lines." His figures, cal tone of the times, rdlecting and his backgrounds, and hi~ shadings possibly even intluencing the C<+ .tre all a seemingly chaotic mass of temporary mood_ The hard-hitth·~ book review cross-hatchings and roughout lines. essays of George Will and Will\ :.n The:: results however are wonderlul­Buckley can be ea!->ily fcim~·~ 
Oliphant sets his iconoclastic 

merely avoiding the long cohHUtl of tone with the cover illustration of 
ly expressive caricatures and star­
newsprint, but a short glance at an zealous fundamentalists demanding tlingly hilarious compositions that 
are the most effective comments on Oliphant cartoon gives him the 
that yet another profane book be 
many an editorial page. Although his chance to belt you with a politicalbanned, his ownBan This Book!. He drawings are often profusely haymaker right to your political con­then follows this pace unrelentingly, detailed, his message remains as sciousness. If you enjoy his cartoons making a pell-mell dash across the direct as a punch in the face. or simply like recalling the events political and social scene and batter­The:: message itself however can and attitudes ofour recent p;u,t, Ban 
ing the egos and pretences ofsuch 
be a cause for debate. Traditi,,n..li~•­This Boo/.: is for you. Ifhowever you
recent phenomena as the Neutron 
amcn!<( 1ile ~~nJ,~ ul editorial car­just like that cute. little, wise­bomb, AI Haig, the PATCO and 
toonists criticize him for being cracking penguin that he draws in baseball strikes, James Watt, and the with no the corners of his cartoons, look in
wishy-washy, set politicalMX missile plans. 
tone. However, after a perusal of stores on Valentine's day for your Ban This Book! is simply a com­Oliphant's work, one can appreciate very own "Puck the Penguin" doll. pilation of the daily editorials that that it is just thb absence of a strict When you're hot, tlood the market 
.: 
-~---------------------~----­
The Observer Monday, January 31, 1983-page 9 

' 

. 
''' 
' .
' 

---~·,.;_... ,.__ .,·,
.·.· . . __ . :tt,~ 
, _-_v·_,. _-. 
... ' 'I.,.

Photos by Scott Bowet, Ed Cattoll and --' Paul Ciffa_r9lli 
L_________________ ----­

SportS=/=l=r=i=~J..:h_s====~==========M=o=nct=a=y,=Ja=n=ua=fl='3=1=,1=9=s3===pa=g=e=10 
By The ( Jbsen•er and The Associated Press 
Notre Dame-Fordham tickets for the Feb. to game at the Byrne Meadowlands Arena are available at half-price ~o students at the ACC ticket office. The Irish play the second game ot a double-header with Manhattan taking on Holy Cross in the first game. Student tickets are S5. -The Observer 
Brother Joseph Bruno, coach of Notre Dame's 
wrestling team, was named Coach ofthe Year for Catholic Schools as Notre Dame finished second in the National Catholic Invitational Tournament this past weekend at Marquette. Mark Fisher took first in his weight class ( 126) and set a Notre Dame record for most wins in a season, 346..-The Obserz•er 
In a unique move, the Arizona Wranglers of the ne\vly-formed l'nited States Football League. have announced the retirement of Craig Penrose. a quarterback. before the season has even started. -AP 
Team America the :'1/ational Amnican Soccer League's answer to the l 'nited States weakness in World Cup Soccer and their newest franchise. namc.:d its coach. :\lketas Panagoulias. -AP 
In hockey news, tht• llartt(ml \\ hakrs rt't:alkd Stu :-.mtth. a dde:1sem.tn. from Binghamton oi )he ,\mcrican llockn· lx:~guc. The \lontreal Canadtc.:ns a~stgned Ric '\attre~~-a dc.:kn­'t::man. to \jo,·a '-c·otia ofthe ,\mcric:m lhKkev l.ea~uc.-,·lP 
College football coaching tnoves th•s 
"c-ckcnd tncludc 1\ot~t: -,tate' .tnnollllcernull ot the n·"gnauon <Jf lim t.rliH:r, head fo•Hhali coach. 111 ortkr th.<t .IK ma) "~'umc :: "'n•l.tr po~itton \\tlh lc>W.l ~£.11.-.•1nd t.orndl :1.11111111! Boh t .ult"lt-rt to .111 ,!,,i,Li!H tiJoth:~ll cuad1tll;.! pu,ilhJn -.·ll' 
~----------·-----~-~ 
By Enberg and company 
Super Bowl coverage impressive 
By DAVE GOLDBERG There was a replay that showed the line play and Merlin Olsen, a I";­Associated Press exactly why the play happened. The year veteran ofthe trenches, was the camera caught Miami cornerback perfect instrunor -~taying away The overwhelming hype that Don McNeal slip trying to follow from jargon and technical gibberish. precedes the Super Bowl must man-in-motion Don Warren I:nberg was his competent sci( al­tempt television to hype its which is, it turned out, why Riggins though when he gets excited. he coverage. Fortunately for an es­was able to power by him. gets excited about I 0 decibels timated 100 million Americans, NBC was particularly well-louder than anyone else. There were NBC resisted the temptation Sun­prepared to cover the trench also times when he was almost a day. warfare that decided the game. little too well prepared, venturing 
Overall, we got the best possible George Finkel and john Gonzalez, over the bounds of a play-by-play coverage of perhaps the most the men in charge of replays, man, but all in all, NBC showed great interesting of Super Bowls. Game provided him with shot after shot of restraint and a great game. producer Larry Cirillo and 
producer-director Ted Nathanson did the ultimate (or a television net­work: they let the game tell the story and provided voices and pictures 
• • • Men
that elaborated rather than rehashed. Oh, the pre-game show was, as 
"I figun:d I could a few of them
continued {rom paxe 16

usual, an hour and a half too long; we 
away. might have seen a replay or two 
one-point deficit. "Notre Dame now stands I0-~. from more angles than we needed. 
The lead changed hands nme tines with a crucial week ahead of it. On And the cameras might have missed 
in the second half, but when Bruin \1\"ednesdav. the lrhh face La Salk a play. like the final touchdown, hid­
sophomore Nigel Miguel hit an which beat them 6(>-61 last season at den bv fans, sideline photographers 
eight-foot jumper, UCLA was ahead the ACC. Then. on Saturday. Phelps· and NBC's camera truck. 
to stay at 43-42 with II :09 left. crew takes on a rejuvenated South But viewers got everything else. 
It proved to be Miguel's only bas­Carolina, which is I +--i and has won Take john Riggins' 43-yard touch­
ket of the game. but was one of eight in a row. down burst that gave the Redskins 
several key contributions by un­"A win today would have been the lead in the fourth quarter. It was 
heralded Bruins in the game. worth tlve as far as an NCAA hid.'" perfectly executed by Washington; 
Ofcourse, there wa~jackson, who said Phelps. "I figure I H-I 0 will get tt was perfectly executed by NBC, 
finished with l 0 points, four assists you into the tournament, if we heat right down to the shot of exultant 
and two steals. And then there was tht~ ri t glH peopk. We can't afford to Redskin owner jack Kent Cooke in 
Darren Daye, who scored a quiet I H lo~•: to the indep•·mknts·-we have the stands. 
to lx·at DePaul, Dayton and South
points. But none of the no-names 

Carolina. We.: will be a good tourna­
made a larger contribution than 
mt·fll team, hut wc.:'ve got to earn it
!>Ophomore Gary Maloncon, who 
fir~.t."

swatted away three Irish shots in the.: 
And also hope the breaks go their
Yesterday's Results late stages and hit a clutch turn­
UCLA 84, Notre Dame 53 way, So far, thq haven't. Whether or Notre Dame (53) 
around jumper with ";:I 7 left to give.: 
not they do may wdl dccidc the fate M FG-A FT-A R F p 
the Bruins a four point margin. 

team tournament
"Any time you struggle, defense of their come
Ebben 21 4-11 0-0 4 2 8 
Ka1ser 15 1-4 0-0 3 5 2 wins the game," said UCLA coach 
time.:. Scnueth 27 2-13 4 IRISH ITEMS -Pax~on lc.:ad all
3-7 3 7 Larry Farmer. "Today. the guys olf Hensley 25 0-0 0-0 2 5 0 the bt:nch made the difference scort·rs with ~ H p<>inb. while Ire~ Dougherty 38 8-18 1-2 1 5 17 
harnn Tim Kempton was imprc!'>,t\t·
deknsdvcly. They were getting a lot
Keys 26 2-9 1-2 0 1 5 
~Aulilns 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 of dribble penetration and I tigured 
again with I 'i poims. eight rd1oumb Klauke 9 3-5 0-1 4 1 6 if they were going to drive on us. we and t(ntr as,i.'t!'>. I k had I-point' 111 Basford 15 1-2 0-0 0 3 2 might a~ well have 'a force' the Dc.:cemhn game . The lrl'<h 
Bates 23 2-5 2-2 6 1 6 
( Maloncon ) hack there.: ~o throw outrcboundnl I·c L\ .?.H-.?.1 hut 
200 23-67 7-14 24 26 53 
them out." commiu't·d '1'-mort: tunlln-crs ( I 1 
UCLA (84) M FG-A FT-A R F p "I told Co;Kh Farmer at halftime 'i) and attempted c1ght lcwcr frn· Joyner 25 2·4 69 4 3 10 that I am rc.:ady to go in and ~top throws ( I t·h). "<>phomorc D:m Thurscon 25 3-9 0:? 9 0 6 ~orne of those layup,.'' ~aid .\1alon­J)uft sa\\ .I sea."tn-high 1-mi11ute· 
Thornpson 21 5-6 6·10 9 2 16 
con, who hails from (.ardena. CaliJ. as !'help' optnl to u't him i1>rcad ••:
11ardy 22 23 2·2 6 2 6 
Dean "28 1-7 6-6 5 0 8 "lie ~howell u., the 'hot chart 'at lrc,hman .J<>seph Price. '' !11> .t!' 
McCoy 26 3 6 0-1 4 3 6 halltimc and mo't of tht:ir shuts pc.trnl nen • >lh in his first l'auln .q; 
MrF-adden II 3-5 0-0 2 1 6 
were coming right under tilt· basket pnantT I CL\ lnst -o c,-ht:rc 
.Jones 28 8·12 3-6 10 1 19 
Alston 14 1-1 5 7 -(~even lrbh basket~ in the fir't half, Iridal llt).dll to •\l.ti>.una tt> -n.tp !I·
3-5 5 200 30-57 24-37 54 17 84 were from underneath. 2()-gamc l'.llllt-) ~ 1 <1' Ilion" m !>lrc:tJ.; 
·----;..-----. ---------------------------------------------­The Observer w1il dLt.ept class1f1eJs fvlu' · 
.· 
day through Fr.day 10 am to 4 30 f.J ·r 
However. class1fleds f(. a:Jpt:dr .'n the next'"'"". 
must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the buslnPss (j;;v 
pnor to msert1on All 'lass;f,eds must be prP.p;,,,_ 
e1ther 1n person or througl' the mali 




Classifieds 
=---. ==========================-=================~ 
TOZit-E-::~P1ltJ1HER :_ets,.,.., :'·1·1<
Need two non-student tiCI<ets 10 the SouthNeert nde to Cleveland area F~b 4-6 W111 
PRE-L'<W SOC!tc rv n1ght at S1 Bar
Carolina game Feb 5 W1ll pay $S$' Call ant1 A mi~Ldrr•;qr, .n P.ve-r ~ O:h·NOTICES l fFQR RENT Nancy at 7966 Oup•, •r·.~.· wr: rP ::• p.' qnt? ht1L1 1.', 8 da~o· an.,.wa, 'n~Jt3' thl!:l ~ tedns tne stnk 1 
s11are usual Call John 277-1836 Feb 1. 9·!JO tel mi(JniQhl 
~----------------~ I need 2 South Carolina fiX tor my parents 
SENIORS 

Were 1n love
Ca11 M1ke 1850 FOR 1983-84 VOLUNTEER WORK
need S C t1x call Clan 1612 lilt~ Awesorne 3-some 
:; K NO \lORE CUTE STUFF :F YOU WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES IN
5-bdrrn comlJIBtely furn1sned close to 

'lEEG A '-IAIRCUT AND DONT VVAI\IT SEVERAL US CITIES, APPLICATIONS 
campus. comtcrtable tfouse tor group of 5 NEED 61ix tor Feb 5 So Careohna game'
TO PAY V.ORE 11-'AN $41GUYS! OR DUE FEBRUARY 8TH. CALL MARY
·Jr61or 1983 84 ?~oce28B·3942aijer6 Call matt 1208 To the p1ettv vuu11g I;1C;' tn ttle se( ond
$6iGIRLSI ~HEI\I CALL TODAY FOR ANN ROEMER, 7949.
FOR SALE ] row at Tr.ursday rHte s Keenan Revue 
·fOUR vERY OW" APPOINTMEI\IT 
Studer.~ houstnq · 6-bdr"l ,Ou5e. fully who was 
MiCHOLE 233-8456 

carceteo. 2 bat~s 'Kltchen5 w/loh 232· AYEAR OF SERVICE · weanng a betqa dre"ts 4057 01 2'2·7-767 ·talktng to a h'tle blao. g1rl SJt1•ng next to
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES ONEi'-OR SALE PIOI\IEER MANUAL TURN.>oSUMES PROFESSIO"'ALI.Y herYEAR POSTGRAD WORK. MANY
~RSONALS
TABLE PL512. PERFECT CONDP<o-:'• ..:-E"emnns· 233-6581 
'liCE FURNISHED >K'MI:'3 FCR NEXT REWARDS HELPING THOSE WHO ·and couldf'l 1'5t-:e around the mus1c dHec·
CARTRIDGE NOT INCLUDED.
S:..:r<OOL YEAR CLOSE TO lliD GOOD NEED YOU. DEADLINE FEBRUARY 8 tur at the and ~ ,J lt·O StiOW
ORIGINAL PACKING 11\!LCUDED CAlL 
A~EAS 2773604 NEW YORKI CLEVELAND' BOSTON! CALL MARY J.NN ROEMER, CENTER HJI GIVf: rne d rmg-t d hke to nlE"et you
JIM 1602 
MR Furn. ~ ~dr a_pt Clean & t.tose 10 "JD or 
CHICAGO• PtjiLADELPHIA! Tune to FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, 7949. 
FOR SALE FRIGiDAIRE COMPACT 88 9 FM Mond~y lhtu Fnday at 8PM for
I LOST/FOUND l 
1U;-)k Avculah1e 1mmerJ Call233· 7631 

concerts by :he !'i-ttlon·s Qtellt~st or· Lor1 ~u Am··• :-t.=tPfne· $80 00 chestras Th1S 15 thA per1&e1 study a1d HOJJ~ ··",]' ('t}t~: 6-day IS .tuoularl)" 
REFRIGERATOR 4 3 cut•c II oil x1S35 Where IS that ESPN s1gn Rm 328 Alumn1 
Ho.~tl'"t
3-bd!M llOL.:S~ •tfV CtOSe IO Cdmpus call 

from WSIIiD-FM ·" S!ereo• ,lwesome'l!h T1me to ,)redk out some 12 ..":39-6244 ··r 21<3 xr.:;7
~our-..:c One rnan s. I&ather, ma10on ~..,~ "lEF'RIGE.RA.TOR. Donn s,ze, ~SO or best HWf. ·r~wL 1n tront of ~ntqht s of offer 19 1ncll B&W TV $20 Call 283-Unllalerj<l Nuclear Freeze? WArJTED RIDE TO PURDUE . "'.~~e. Shel. and 8•11 
POOM "OR RE N'-? BL;)CI<S ~,OUTH 

·1L ·rtJu~ ria•' Cla1m al Lnst & Found 1n 11)66 USA USSR WEEKEI\ID OF THE 4TH CALl x1256
OF N D ··o~F CuURSE $20 .2~3­

Adr.i ..-.ut!d 0 UNLIMIH:D 
F-730.233-1109 

· .JVf "1 1•lloJX Room 328 Alumn1. Hav1ng fun 1ookH1Q for
FOR SALE-1 round tnp tc• an~whttre that Push for B,lateral Aqreements 
OS... Bh..e-an1i wlltte Se•. ,>· •.;la->s K~v P1ec·-nr... nt A,!!,net-. flies S B., Vole NO on Feb 8 JOB Or' ·. "'" ",. :...;R,; TIRE PRINT 
'WO 'lOOMS I"JITH 6ATH ALL UTILIES tne ESPN sogn The Ayatollah 1s ge111ng a SHOP •.,.,,; T.Ml; '-.EAICAL WORK
Clas~ cf 82.•n,ttals 1 SM on tac:k s~r)o­~ "L. Demo3t,Boston,Dat/as.Fionda
PAID MALE PREFFEREO PRIVATE EN­11n1e fired Maybe a b1c lighter " >n order 
AND B•~::; 'A. 'f 3AAPHICS FOR
:tmt-,~~~'-dlut only Call Tom l( 139fl and many more spo~s Call Mark at 1725
IER,\NCE 28809~5 FLOC Pres~ dent t1au:temar v~II8SQUfU HI' dl Ch•"' yOUI ma1lbOx for ashes Hd! 
11\!FO CAt.L STI-··. :-.Jl ""111C AT 233­
:;,l)eak to the student oodv co11c.em1ng •..tl
-<MPLIFIER FOR E:LECTRIC GUITAR 
1·N.:.om1ng reterenC.Jm ro cont'~'ue :!l
LOST ND ClASS RING OR f.'IANO. 120 WATTS RM5 2121NCH 
Varnaha 6·st11119 acousttc gu1tar tor sale
ooycott of Campbelfs SOL•P prod'·'"'" ry,l
WEDJAN 12 SPI'~KERS. E~.C:F-_ .•_OND CALL DAN 
Monday .Jan. 31. at 615 in !he Lllli'AIY ex cvnd ca11 Greg at 3003
wANTED--\ 3114 
HAYES HEALY MENS '100M Shan CC: ...I r:-e ....tc t'~: tall caf"l 0~
1d...9 
Auditorium t;ome see tne man >Nhom 
a.wesorn~;
SECOI\ID FLO•JR 

Camphetrs has refused lo deb~te.
YELLOW GOLt:.. s~UE STONiO 
Bob Beres.. 

PLEASE CALL BP.;A~ U :77 479C a complex tw1st m option/ess md&Cision

c---..------, 
Kevtn. 'y 1• ·J (f.-a Gr.r: ,. .tell). 110w you have
JOB BANK 
a perso"'au NIP.

LOST GOLD SE!KC WA rc.n Need nde to ~~eveland artta Feb 4·6 Vv1t, TICKETS _J I Ca•r'··~ Hoc••. 31 1\1 Part-lime, Cohe-an ~uinnl LEFT IN LOCKER AT HoE ilOCK. share usual Call John 277-183n tn'ltl'ltory-s1oc~ room For 1nro. s;~JI Oave Snail we rnt::~t fnr lunch on Tuesday at our 
Garfm. 272-25-'6. 2. Job open1ng at D•s­~ilHJfflli .:udtJwalk cafe? I'll brmg the LOST A GOLD CROSS WITH A l need 3 S.Cam'• <-: G .A • (possct>:y 1o-CHEAP SEX and tickets wanted I need count ltquors m Svuth Bend Part-hme yla~es. Quote of lhe week {poss.bly the month)· DIAMOND CH!P. (1/27/83) SE'ITIMEN­9etherH()1 F~b ~. fl..::S'I\'11 Mr. ne•J no onjec:• 5.!' ·aral G.A. s t0r lhe Feb 5 So Carolina Clerk needed, for >nlo call J1m Detthng al Jab. The raho r,f!re 1S tht~e to one and I STILL TA!. '-'ALIJE. Darlene 6980. ';a!; ~ 3f.(t :"if)(; ...:-;• ·...;,· r•.· '!nk. R-nal! qame. Call Mark at x12C1 287-5211 can·t get o <Ja•e 
~----------~--------------~~-~-·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.J 


The Observer · Monday,January 31, 1983-page 11 


YOU'RE WASTING YOUR MONEY BUYING ANYWHERE ELSE 
''BUD'' 

CASE OF $1199---CASEOF 
24 CANS 

·-=-­LABATTS
·~$729 
BEER OR ALE s109~ 
CASE OF 24 BOTTLES 
HOURS 
9 a m.-10 p.m. r MON.-THURS. 
~~ ~ 
Prices good thru Sat., Feb. 5 
LIQUOR CORDIALS & BRANDIES . WINES & CHAMPAGNES 
BLEND-_1.75 9.99 OEKUYF'ER SCHNAPP$._ .750 3.99 ·. ~ .. -. TEN HIGH BOURBON ____ u5 10.99 ~~~~1~:: FLAVORED __ 4.99 CARLO ROSSL ______ 4uTER 4.99 
750 
0 

(/;T, . ~~~~~:o:U~~~~~::::: :: 1:::: :~~::::/ORDIItS :~ :: ~ ~ _ CHRISTIAN BROTHERS ____ t.5 2.99 ~ . 8 99 CHILA COFFEE LIQUEUR 150 4 • 99 GERMAN LIEBFRAUMILCH-.750 2 99

CALVERT GIN _________ us • 10 99 • 
BAILEY'$ IRISH CREAM_ ..75o • 3 99 LORD CALVERT_ __ -----us 10•99 FRANGELICO ____ ___ .suo 8.99 ZELLER SWARTZ KATL __ .75o • SEAGRAMS 7 CROWN ___ u5 10.99 ___________, CANEI WINES __________750 2.99 7 99
JACK DANIELS_: ____ --_.75o • \1\ . . --~0uss..._.,.. 1 )·..:~J. 7 99
V ---1~ ... , aa "~ ' M&R ASTI _____________7so •
MACKINTOSH SCOTCH 10 99~CANADIAN CLUL_:::·,:: 6:99 ~~~ t&~g~~;,~~~,o ~ ZONIN ASTI__ ________ Jso 4.99 
SMIRNOf f VOOKA_ -----·"' ~-:: ·~ KINGS CELLAR VALUE I. ROGET SPUMANTL ---"' 2.49 
~ ~:~~~~~ ~~~~~:::::::: ::: 7:99 YO~!~ c~~c~ IN ( l TAYLOR CHAMPAGNE_--_ '" 4.99 
-

iif ~~~~~~:~c~o!~~!~~::: ::: 1~:::1 IJ 3~~, 4~,~-7.!~..1 ~:::R::~~~~~~::::: _:: ~::: 
CLIPr,
C'Loae"'s &
Ell lis 

r-fRiD-AYONLY--. fs'ifuRoi{o"Niv 
2-3-83 7-4-83 I 2-S-Si I 
1-31-83 1-1-83 2-'2-83 
BUDWEISER MILLER PABST GENERIC MILLER :LOWENBRAU 
~LITE 
~ BEER 
I~ '

Utr ~ : 
~Sfi49 !~EERI $485 ttj~~-Sfi69 $849
I

3 as&~!.. c.; r_:__ ACASE : I ~ ACASE
ACASE ACASE 
't --I liMIT 1 per pttr5on LIMIT 1 per per.on LIMIT 1 Fe' per• >n LIMIT 1 per per•on LIMIT 1 per per.on I LIMIT 1 per per•on
L ----~~-~~-·--------------------------------­


-----------. ----------­
---------·-,
MONDAY ONLY -----------iwEilNfsoi'{o-Ni:Y' -THUR-soi'Y-o"Ni:v' r-F'RiD"AvoN'Lv--rsiruRoivoNl.v'
TUESDAY ONLY 

1-31-83 2-1-83 2-2-83 _ _ 2-4-83 2-S-83
2 3 83 

KING'S CELLAR KING'S CELLAR J &B l JAMESON
JIM BEAM 

~ KALUA IRISH
VODKA GIN
~BOURBON • SCOTCH ~ WHISKEY 
799

7~~ 7~~5 ~~ rl B~!Ml ~ 7~!0Ml
I] 9~~ ~ A750Ml f.il = 
________,.,..,._ 1
I. LIMIT 1 per per•on_a LIMIT 1 per penon J LIMIT 1 perp~en LIMIT 1 per penon LIMIT 1 per penon 1 LIMIT 1 per penon J 
~------------------·---.. ----~·-----~~~~-------------------___________ ----------, ----~-----­
~---------­
WEDNESDAY ONLY : THURSDAY ONLY FRIDAY ONLY SATURDAY ONLY 

2-S-83
~ . 2-4-83 

BE A WIN-NER & SHOP US 





While Quantities Last No Raincheclc 

~: ·~ ;: 


:: 
'• 
:: 
. 

:. ·= .... 
: 

,: :' 
. ·: 

. .:. . 
' 
:::. 


------------------------------------·­
Monday,January 31, 1983-page 12
The Observer 

Washington, Miami 



Fans celebrate, moan Super Bowl 

WASIIINGTON (AP) -At the stroke of 9:_'W, when the final score was in, they poured out of the bars and restaurants ofGeorgetown, into the streets, onto the:: lampposts and yelled: "We're:: No. I." 
A thousand, or maybe three or four, crowde::d into the main inter­se::ction at Wisconsin and MStreets, a jumping. rocking crowd of Redskins fans. 
In suburban Virginia, at the:: bar owned by Washington quarte::rback Joe Thdsmann, the parking lot was 
jammed with cars and a line oftraffic 
was crawling past, honking, 
honking. 

The song of the day, of the week, 
of the year, was "llail to the 
Redskins." All duly recorded by 
reporters and TV crews. 

"They were great. They're No. I," 
said 12-year-old Michacl Jackson, 
who came down after the game with 
his father to soak in the celebration. 
The post-game revelers were not allowed inside Thdsmann's bar where ISO to 200 peopk had bought tickets to watch the:: game on two TV sets. 
Bob Nipp, who identitkd himself as a special assistant to the U.S. Treasurer, walked to the bar after the game, and said: "Joe Theismann is chairman of the U.S. Savings Bond Committee and I know Joe. I know 
NOWTHAT YOUARE CONSIDERINGACAREER 

~~Securities Research #lt Stock and Bond Trading 
13 Economics e Computer Programming u Systems 
Analysis~; Telecommunications fffi' Capital Equipment 
Leasing %ii Real Estate ,®tr Relocation Management 
ttl$ Life Insurance • Money Market Funds vGovernment 
Securities t.u~ Municipal Bonds €9 Corporate Underwrit­
ing 'I) Liquid Cash Management¥# Commodities 
Futures ®t.t Mortgage Banking i1;4J Auditing 'W~' Branch 
Office Management qJt Institutional Portfolio Manage­
ment @~l Operations Management tltl Personal Financial 
Planning #@.f. New Product Services Development 
MEET MERRILL LYNCH. 
......... ·.·.·.·.·.··.-'··:·:;::::;.::;:;::.::;:;:::::::::::::~::::::::::.:·:·:: .·:·····. 


We have three intensive, industry-pacing train­ing programs that can launch select people on exciting careers in any of the above areas. Train­ing begins in the New York Metropolitan area and could lead to a regional assignment, depending on the program you select. Our Cam­pus Representative will describe each of them in detail. Arrange an interview through your Place­ment Office. Or write for more information and an application to College Relations, Merrill Lynch, One Liberty Plaza (165 Broadway), New York, NY 10080. 
r-----------------------,
I I I WE'LL BE ON YOUR CAMPUS I 
I I WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16 I I 
I I 
L-----------------------J 

~ MerriU Lynch 
Merrill Lynch is an Equal Employment Opportunity employer. 
John Riggins. I know Joe personally. cause or a premonition she had early 
And they still won't let me in." in the game. But still, he said. "I'm so thrilled." "I was working from II o'clock in In Georgetown, champagne corks the morning until six and the minme 
popped. A fountain of the bubbly I walked to the bar to have a drink, drenched the throng. my m;m, Jimmy Cetalo, caught the 
_ Police were ready. but they were first touchdown pass. All the girls needed only to clear a path for cars. love him. He's great. He's the best Those:: brave enough to drive looking man around," she said. through risked having hood and roof Patrons at Sunday's On The Bay, denred by fans who re::garde::d every where Nuta works, watche::d the Dol­vehicle as a trampoline. phins' National Football League 
championship quesr on three portable televisions as well as one large-screen version. 
The establishment, where cus­tomers arrive by boat as well as hy 
MIAMI ( AP) -first-half excite­car. was dotted with "ShuIa l(>r Prc~i­ment disintegrated into disappoint­dent" bumper stickers and gave ing sighs last night as die-hard Miami 



Miami 

away free drink~ every time the Dol­Dolphin fans w;,~tchcd their team phins scored a touchdown. lose:: 2...,-1: to the Washington Redskins in Super Bowl XVII. "I knew he had to he stopped. That was the only man who had to he:: stopped," fe::rnando Pe::rez, 30, 
• • • Women 
said as he watche::d a replay of Wash­ington running back .John Riggins' 
continuedfrom /Jtll{e 16
·B-yard touchdown run. "Look at that man; we had to stop him. For Notre Dame, sophomore 
"It was a tough game, but Don guard Laura Dougherty once again Shu! a knew we had to stopJohn Rig­paced the team, scoring I..., points in gins and we didn't do that. But I'm 38 minutes of action before fouling still proud because we were in the out. She was the only Notre Dame Super Bowl," said Perez, a sales player in double figures. manager who was one of the most HUSH ITEMS Notre Dame vocal Dolphin supporters at the returns to action Friday night at the Dade Athletic Pub, where a crowd of ACC against Loyola of Chicago .... more than a hundred watched the On Sunday, the Irish play host to game on a 20-foot television screen. Iowa State in the second of two 
At a bayfront bar in Key Biscayne, tuneups for the long-awaited show­waitress Diane Nuta said she down with No. 1 Lousiana Tech on thought the Dolphins would win be-Feb I 1 at the ACC ... 

Sweep 
continuedfrom paf!,e 14 

four shots on goalie Bob McNamara. They never scored on the power play. 
Saturday's game was played with­out the talents ofSteve Ely for Notre Dame and Diego Odino for Western Michigan.. Both players were dis­qualified from the series for fighting after the buzzer sounded the end of the second period on Friday. Both benche::s emptied onto the ice, hut the officials were able to isolate the two offenders and eventually separate them. 
The Irish scored the only goal of Saturday's first period after 17 minutes ofscoreless action. Bellomy skated across the blue line with a pass from Bob Thebeau for a clean breakaway on Healy who was faked out by the:: seni<)r left wing. 
In the second period, Chapman scored the only goal for both teams at 7:0-t. John Higgins passed to Bjork who had Chapman on his left. Ken Calder was the lone Bronco defen· der. Bjork shot a pass to·Chapman in tight on Healy, and Chapman simply poked it in for a goal. The score was 2-0 after two periods. 
At I:22 of the next period, on the power play, Higgins took a hard shot that Healy made a stick save:: on. But the Bronco goalie was too far out of the net when the puck dribbled be­hind him and Bjork d,we to push it into the unattended nets. 
The score was now 3-0 and the 
Irish looked more in control than 
they have all season. But a frantic ten 
minutes almost lost it for Notre 
Dame. 

At "!:08, a sprawling McNamara saw his shut out hopes disappear as he watched a bouncing puck oft' the stick of Bob Bailey dribble past him. 
Four minutes later, Bailey did it again. Joe Bowie took a slap shot from the point that was blocked by a Western Michigan player. Bailey retrieved the stranded puck and easily scored on a clean bre::akaway. 
Now only one goal down with new momentum, the Broncos pur heavy pressure on McNamara. The Irish goalie came out of the nets to clear the zone, but his pass was detlected off Jim Grillo of Western :Vlichigan. Lance Johnston had a wide open shot into the un­protected nets. That tied the score at 3-3 and made:: everyone nervous. 
But once again Deasey's line came 
to the rescue. At 16:03 DeVoe stole 
the puck from the Broncos and took 
it down ice. At the last second, he 
dumped the puck into a crowd in 
front of Healy. In the confusion, 
Bianchi finally battkd the:: puck into 
the goal for the winning point. 
Irish goalie McNamara was a key 
to the victory. fie:: had 30 saves in the 
winning eff<>rt t<>r a total of 52 saves 
in the series. 

Deasey's line playe::d well getting 
the winning goal in both nights ofac­
tiOn. But Smith didn't want to single 
out any one player or group of 
players for special praise. 
"I sec the whole weekend as being 
a ,real test of the caliber and quality 
of the kids on the team," he said. "It 
would have been easy under the 
emotional drain of this week to just 
quit when things got tough. But they 
never did give up." 

The banner hanging below the press box in the north dome quoted the motto of the inspired Irish. It read "You can kill us. hut we'll never die." 
According to Smith, the victories were all part ofgood timing. 
"Our first sweep of the:: se::ason couldn't have come at a better time," he said. "We:: arc in better shape now than ever this season." 
The sweep escalated the Irish, now 8-I...,· I, ahead of both Western Michigan and Illinois-Chicago in the CCHA standings. If the team can continue to win, their hopt.·s to make the playoft:O. will stay alive. 
"Next week we go to Miami of Ohio," Smith said. "If we can win two down there, we could possibly be in sixth place and on our way to the playoff:~." 
The Irish must continue to im­prove and transl(>rm their emotions concerning the demise of the program into positive motivation. The travel to Oxford, Ohio this weekend t<>r a rematch of a split st~ries earlier this year. 
The Observer Monday, January 31, 1983-page 13 
Fourth straight loss 
IU-PU defeats slumping Belles 
Michigan State by 16 
Skiles leads upset of Purdue 
EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) -game -an excellent. all-around Purdue Coach Gene Keady. who Busloads of fans followed the performance." Heathcote said. "This didn't want to admit his team was Purdue basketball team north to certainly gives us the feeling (that) feeling the effect ofa triple-overtime watch their team battle Michigan we're alive. It seems like an eon game Thursday at Michigan. 
State. but their hero was wearing a since we've won a game." "! don't want to use that an
as green and white Spartans uniform. Skiles, a 6-foot-l guard, ignited the excuse. but Russell Cross couldn't 
"!wish they would bus those fans Spartans with a pair of three-point go anymore," Keady said. "He up here every game," Michigan State field goals as they took a 22-1 5 lead needed a breather right at the cru­Coach Jud Heathcote said Saturday midway through the first half. cial time in the game." night after the fans watched Scott Down by nine at halftime. Purdue Derek Perry added I..., for the Skiles hit for 16 points and seven as­outscored Michigan State 20-9 to tie Spartans and 7-0 center Kevin Willis 
sists to help the Spartans whip the score at 56-56 with under I0 chipped in 10 points. Purdue 83-67. minutes remaining. However, the Cross hit for 20 points for Purdue The victory broke a four-game Big Boilermakers went cold and didn't while Reid added 12. 

Super Bowl MVP john Riggins won't talk to the press, but his 
Ten losing streak for Michigan State. score for the next six minutes. Michigan State raised its record to 
huge shadou• spoke reams to the Miami Dolphins, u•ho couldn't 
Skiles. a freshman from Plymouth. allowing the Spartans to run off 16 \0-8 overall, 3-5 in the Big Ten. 
stop the record-setting !Jack u•hose fourth quarter touchdown 
Ind. didn't let his followers down. unanswered points -led by 6-2 while Purdue dropped to 13--t and 
ended the hopes ofDolphins as the Washington Redskins u•on 27­despite playing the second half with guard Sam Vincent. who finished 4-3. 17. (AP Photo) a split lip after crashing into with a game-high 23 points. Purdue's Steve Reid. "We got up against a team that was "This was probably Scott's best hungry and needed a victory," said 


Swimmers win 3 of4 preparefor Midwest 
the Notre Dame women's team
By THERON ROBERTS 
could only manage to split their
Sports Writer 
meets, contesting the same schools as the men.
The Notre Dame men's and women's swimming teams won Western Ontario whipped the three of four meets over the Irish women. 80-69. weekend, with just over a month left 
N~w varsity standards were set in
until the Midwest Invitational for 200-yard medley relay by the team
both teams. 
of Raili Tikka, Vennette Cochiolo,The Irish men registered slim vic­Gina Gamboa, and Karen Korowickitories over Western Ontario and with a time of 1:56.7; Gamboa alsoSaint Bonaventure by identical 61­established a new record in the I00­51 scores. 
yard individual medley, (I :04.0 );Paul McGowan grabbed a pair of 
Mary Amico shattered her own
firsts in each meet. winning the one 
record in the three-meter divingand three-meter diving events •on ( 197.85 points).
1:1oth occasions. Tim Hohdan won the 500-yard freestyle both days and Against Western Ontario, Sheila swam to first place in the I000-yard Roesler, Amico, Gamboa,free in Canada. AI Harding notched a Korowicki,Julie Boss, and Jean Mur­pair of victories in the 200-yard tagh were victorious.
freestyle. 
Brian Casey was victorious in the The NO men upped their record 200-yard butterfly against Western to 4-2, and return to action Wednes­Ontario. Oan Carey won the 50-yard day. hosting Albion College. free and Gary Seve11·n placed first in The Irish women take their 4-4 the 200-yard breaststroke against slate against the Ball State Cardinals Saint Bonaventure. Tuesday at the Rockne Memorial 
Although four varsity records fell, Pool. 

By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 
Closing to within one on several 
occasions in the second half, Saint 
Mary's basketball team couldn't 
quite close the gap, losing to Indiana 
llniversity-Purdue University at In­
dianapolis, 69-57, Saturday after­
noon at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
"How many times did we have chances (to take the lead)?" moaned Belles' head coach Mike Rouse. 
Quite a few. After falling behind 51-39 with I 0 minutes left, the Belles drew within one point a couple of times in the waning minutes behind the efforts of Missy Van Ort and Teresa McGuinnis. Van Ort tallied eight points in the final I 0 minutes and McQuinnis added six. 
For the game, McGinnis was six 
for eight from the field and totaled 
I 5 points. Van Ort connected on 
seven of I 0 field goal attempts for 14 
points. Elaine Suess chipped in 14 
points, but shot five for I 5 from the 
floor_ 
Van Ort pulled down 16 rebounds. Betsy Ebert aided Van Ort on the boards. grabbing 12. Suess handed out eight assists. 
It was the Belles fourth straight loss after winning four of their five previous contests. Saint Marv's falls to 5-8 on the season. IU/PU, who trounced Saint Mary's 101-73 last year, raises its mark to 9-6. 
"! think we're over that three­
game slump," said Rouse. "The best 
thing was we kept coming back. 
That wasn't taking place earlier. 

Hopefully for the Belles it is. They 
travel to Goshen on Tuesday for a 7 
p.m. contest and are entered in the Hanover Tournment this weekend. 
"! was pleased with our defense and our intensity was there," said Rouse. "And we rebounded better. We still seem to be playing in spurts though." 
The Belles, who have suffered a rash of injuries this season, have had problems fielding enough bodies for games and practices. Saint Mary's is again experiencing that same prol>km .1~ unly eight Helles suited for the game against IU/PU and one -Chip Ayotte -was in obvious distress from bruised ribs suffered on.January 22. 

Saint Marv's owns a 4-5 record against NAL.\ competition -good for II th place in the district based on the NAJA's complicated point for­mula. The top eight teams will qualify for the district tourney. 
McGinnis is the district's leading shooter based on the lastest statisti­cal report. She is shooting 62.5 per­cent against NAJA competition. 
Suess has connected on 38 of 49 free throw attempts for 77.6 per­cent. She is sixth in that category and I Oth in scoring with 16.9 average. 
As a team the Belles are the dis­trict's most proflic scoring team with an average of 74.4. They are fourth in field goal shooting ( 41.5 ), sixth in free throw shooting (60.6) and sixth in rebounding ( 40.3 ). 


Throbbing head? 
Quaking body? Has 


Fast. .. Free 
Monday dealt anott·,er 
crushing blow? Revive 


Delivery
yourself with a well­
rounded meal from 

Call us. 
Domino's Pizza. We'll 
help smooth the wrinkles 


277-2151 

out of your day. 1835 S. Bend Ave. Domino's Pizza Plaza 23 Center ® Delivers.'" Open for lunch 
Ask about our party 11 am-1am Sun.-Thurs. 
discounts. 11 am-2am Fri. & Sat. 
© 1983 Oommo's P1zza. Inc: Coke/16 oz. cups 
r-··············-------.,
Only 
For a 16" 1-item pizza
1 1
1 plus 4 cups of Coke! I 1 $7 49 Coupon value $2.25. I1 • (Tax not included.) I 1 Good Mondays only. I 1 Expires in 2 weeks. I 
I ~~~ I
Fast,1835 S.Free DeliveryBend Ave. 

I · Plaza 23 Center I 
I ., · Phone: 277-2151 I
I [JI:. ® ~~ 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
~ ~9";;~~12~~gvery area. ~ 
L•••••••••••••••••••••.J 
The 0 bserver 


The Notre Dame hockey team swept its first series this weekend against Western Michigan, putting them back on the road to theph~voffs. See 
6-0 against Notre Dame 
jane Healey's story on this nec,er-say-die team at right. (Photo by Paul Cifarefli) 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Executit•e News Editor 

LOS A;\IGELES -How do you heat ~otre Dame' Just ask Ralph Jackson and Kenny Fields. 
The l"CI.A juniors have won all six times that they have played the Fighting Irish. Their latest victory came here yesterday h' a score of S9·S:'. Both made key contributions to the Bruin cause. 
jackson. a 6·2 point guard from nearby Inglewood, Ca.. scored I 0 points, including four free throws in the last I 2 seconds to clinch the vic· tory. 
Fields. a 6-~ forward from Los An· geles, scored only nme points, well below his team-leading average of 
18.~. But he made the most crucial 
play of the game -a rebound of teammate Darren Daye's free throw with 5S seconds left. The Bruins led hy only two at the time, hut Fields' rebound pre\Tnted the Irish from regaining possession and a chance to tie. 
According to Fields and Jackson, their sut-cess against Notre Dame is no accident. "Evt'r since our fre~h· man year. the ~otre Dame games have been vt·ry important to me:·· Jackson said. "It is a tlerce rivalry." 
fields abo looks li>rward to the 
annual l/CLA-:\lotre Dame contest. 
"The hest thing about heating ~otre 
Dame is heating Coach Phelps," he 
said. "Digger tends to be :1 showboat 
sometimes. I'm glad that I've never 
lost to him." 

l 'CLA Coach Larry Farmer, who has defeated the Irish ,til tin1 r games in which he·~ been at the Bruin helm. relies heavilv on his juniors. "Ralph is the kt·v to our olft-me," he said. "We want the hall in his hands.'' 
It was .Jacbon's layup with three seconds remaining that gavt· the Bruins a one-point victon· over the Irish at. the ACC 111 Den·mher. "I love the prt'SMire ar the t·nd of the game," he "utl. "And the tact that Notre Dame is the opponent gives me more incentive.'· 
"Ralph is our Johnny·on-the­~pot." Farmer said. "He's improved hb foul shooting sinct· hb frt~shman year. Th.n's important li>r a point guard." 
Jackson averages nearlv six assists a game, a fact that exemplifies his worth to the Bruins. "We want the 
IF YOU THINK IT DOESN'T MA'l*l'ER WHERE YOU GET CONTACTS, YOU OUGHT TO HAVE YOUR EYES 
• 
Where you choose to get your contact 
lenses can make a difference. At NuVision. we do everything to make the experience of getting contacts a pleasant one. It starts with a thorough eye examination by a Doctor of Optometry. The examination he administers is specifically designed to evaluate your eyes so he can writr your prescnption for contact lenses. 
We offer the latest developments in contJct ler.ses at NuVision. Ask about them. The Doctor of Optometry will take the time to explain the differences and recommend the best one for your vision. 
After selecting the right lenses tor you, a NuVision professional Will make sure you are comfortable with them. Whether you're wearing hard lense~. soft lenses, gas permeable lenses, or the new extended wear lenses, we'll m.Jke ~ure you know hnw to put them on, and how to care for them. 
Nu Vision offers contact lenses at reasonable prices. But what makes us different is our own brar,d of care. From eye examination through follow..up VIsits you get professional can· at NuVision. So when you've decided you want contacts, come to NuVision. The difference is clear. 
SOFT CONTACT LENSES 
from Bausch & Lomb and American Hydron Bausch & Lomb and American Hydron Spherical Soft Contacts are now just $49. Price includes:
$49 

Introductory Care Kit: 30-day Trial COMPLETE Wearing Plan. 

WE PUT THE "CARE" BACK IN EYECARE Under the direction of Dr. Eli Shapiro. 0.0 
Monday,January 31, 1983-page 14 
Notre Dame sweeps series against Broncos 
ByJANE HEALEY 
.\jJOrts Writer 

It was not simply two games that the Notre Dame hockey team won this weekend against Western Mich· igan. The lrbh gained their t1rst sweep of the season, some valuable points in the CCHA standings, and a whole lot ofpride. 
In Kalamazoo, Mich. on Friday, the Irish came from behind to beat the Broncos 8-7 in overtime. On Saturday, a crowd of 2,075 at the ACC saw Notre Dame soundly defeat the same Broncos 4-3. 
The Irish didn't really begin to play in Friday's game until the last t1ve minutes of the night. 
Going into the third period, Notre Dame was down 5-4. Two quick goals by Western Michigan widened the gap to a three goal deficit. The vengeful spirit ofthe Irish seemed to be crushed. 
But, at 16: I I, the Irish turned on the heat. Defenseman Mark Benning 
Juniors Jackson and Fields lead Bruin victories 
ball in his hand~." Farmer saitl. 

Field~ averages eight rebounds per contest. "Kennv would valuable even if he didn't score a lot," Farmer ~aid. "He clogs up the middle anti grabs a lot ofrebounds." 
Field~ and Jackson have played important roles since their freshman \Tar. "We'I'C been through a lot to­
gether." Jackson ~;1id "Wt•'ve been friend~ since high ~chool. and have remained close friends at l iCL\. It's no accident that wt· both ended up playing here" 
Jackson is quick to point out that, even though the current Bruin team has played together for a long time ( three seniors also play key roles ), 
none ol the current members have won a Pacitic-J0 Conference title. "We want to win the conference this year," ht· said. "And then we'll start thinking about the NCAA tourna­ment." 
Although the Bruins are S+ IS while jackson and Fields have been on the team, the juniors haven't had much NCAA Tournament ex­perience. They were eliminated by 
BYl" in the t1rst round their fresh· man year, and the team was declared ineligihle for the post-season classic last year. "So we really want to make a good showing this year," Fields said. 
l'CI.A graduates three seniors this year, which IS good news for Notre Dame. The had news for the Irish. however, is that Jackson and Fields will return ti>r one more year. 
wa~ in tht· penaln· box lor sla~hing and ;\lotre Dame wa~ aggressively defending a lilan short ~ituation. 
Senior Rex Bellomy ~tole the puck from Bronco defenscman Glenn Johannessen and passed to Kirt Bjork behind the Bronco nets. Bjork waited for Bellomy to set himself before he dished him a nice pass in front ofgoalie Glenn Healy who had no chance to stop the puck. 
At 17:.'\7, the Irish were only two 
goals behind when sophomoreJohn 
Deasey sparked an attack with some 
effective skating and puck handling. 
Deasey took a pass from Steve 
Bianchi down ice right past the 
Bronco defenseman and in on Healy. 
Once again Healy was helpless and 
allowed the goal. 

"Bianchi really made the play," 
Deasey said. "The defenseman 
played him instead of the puck and 
Steve just set it up for me. I had an 
open shot." 

It was after Deasey's goal, which 
put the Irish within one of Western 
Michigan, that the Irish began to 
play as if they could win the game. 
But there were kss than three 
minutes remaining. 

When half of that tense time had 
ellapsed. Kirt Bjork ~cored his third 
goal of the game to tie the game at 
Bjork passed the puck to Brent 
Chapman at the blue line. hut Chap· 
man was all tied up hy a Bronco 
player. Bjork re~cued his own pass 
and skated in solo on Healy to ~core 
his eighteenth goal ofthe season. 
Of the last 21" goab scored by 
Notre Dame. Bjork'~ !me has been 
credittetl with 21 o! them. 
In the ten minute sudden death 
pt:riod. it didn't take the Irish long 10 
kill Bronco hope~ ol a victory. 
AI I:-H. Bianchi and freshman John De\oe had .1 two-on-one with Western .\tichigan·~ Johanne~en. Everyone expected Bianchi to pas~ off to DeVoe Instead. the freshman left wing left it behind for a charging Deascy who came out of nowhere to slap the winning goal past Healv. 
The goal gave Deasey I 1 points on 
the year and made Coach l.afty Smith 
extremely happy. 

"To come hack and win it in overtime i~ one ofthe hardest things to do," Smith ~aid. "The quality and character of rhe kids really shows through at a time hke this." 
The victory wa-, the result of a balanced often~ive attack by Notre Dame. The eight goals were scort·d by t1ve different people while I 2 players added .u least one poinr to their season tallY 
The poor power pla1· ettlciency of \X estern \tid11gan also aided the Irish. The Brcmco~ had eight power play opportunitit·s. hut due to ag· gressive peno~In· killing by Notre Dame, They wert· only able to take 
See SWEEP. page 12 
Twenty-Fif1th Annual Finance Forum 
~pmv;O/l(~d btj 
t4r. 
Jan. 31 and Feb. 1, 1983 
Jan.31 ~30pn• JamesH.Ca~y 8:00pm Herbert Evers Executive Vice President President Head of Corporate ContiCommodity Lending Services, Inc. Chase Manhatten Bank 
Feb. 1 

8:00pm Charles R. Schwab Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. 

~---------.. ~­
HIIIIIIII...IIIIIHIIIH....HHIIHII...IIHHIIIHIIIHIIIHHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIH...HHIIHH 
Student Union is Gt it GgGin!! AnothergreGt Spring BreGk Trip! ~ ~0 
~~ ~o9.~ 
c_O~ 

Steamboat Springs, Colorado Six fun-filled days and five wild nights! Luxury condominiums with fireplaces and jacuzzis Informational Meeting: Tuesday Feb. 1 
LGfottune Little Thtr. 
4'11111HIIIIIIIIIIIH....IIII....III...IHIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIII.....III......HIHHIIIHIIIHH.....H ....HM 
Lowest Prices In Town! rtow at IRISH GfiRDErtS: Flowers and Plants Galore 
Reminder• Valentine·s Day Order rtow to guarentee roses 
SAY I U WITH FLOWERS 
. 
Ihe~~r========================================= 
~~~~~==========================M=~=n=d=a=y,=J=an=u=a=ry==31='=1=9=8=3==p=a=g=e=1=5
Bloom County
..:-------..... 


8 L.l YQ'l WeRE !?IMT, Sll1oN. 
TI/E WitTER 6Cl6S Cit:J«­W/.S!':

O.K. BURT, ..J /1110 IN TilE
FW5H.' 
SO<ITIIUN if£1VI­
5!'1f£1f£ WilT£!? 
/)fflff/1/S Cl>ilf'~

\ 
Ci«KW/:JE: 
Fate 
.. 



The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 1/31/83 All Riahts Reserved 

llCt*&f.t A~-fJUN NVf5...00.'1HeY JUST.•. 
00.1 IU 7W, YA ~£­1HIN:•. 00. MY U1NST1W ­m.!At....00.1HtY REAlLY... 


ACROSS 28 Psycholo· 1 Menfolk gist Joyce 6 Cuff 32 Elba and 
10 Indistinct others 13 Old French 33 "For­coin sinners 14 Island all" 
dance 34 Ottoman 15 Tops ruler 16 Mischievous 35 Handyman 
kid 39 "-Yankee 18 Accustomed Doodle..." 19 Bear: Sp. 40 A Palmer 20 Be discon· 41 Rope fiber 
solate 42 Seclusion 21 Uncommon 44 Disserta· 23 Dudgeon tions 24 Reveals, 46 Garlands 
poetic 47 Derisive style cry 25 On the 48 Look decline askance 
Saturday's solution 

Berke Breathed 

0 

50 WHIIT !lflf/£/1/S
J 

ON TilE £Q{fi/-TCI?f' 
0 

~ J/1£ TOit£15 !3/fC,I((//"/ 
~~ 
-~ \~ 
Photius 
SoRRY, I J'UST COUlllN'r 1-i(LP 
~ "'l"' 
0 0 



_ Campus 
•I2: 
I5 p.m. -Workshop, "Appropriate Techno!· ogy for LDCs: A New Version ofthe Infant Industry Argument," Prof. Patricia Succar, Library Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Finance Forum, James H. Carey, Hayes Healy Auditorium 

•6:I5 
p.m. Public Forum, Baldemar Velasquez, President of FLOC, Library Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Criss Cross," Sponsored by Annenberg Auditorium, $2 

•8 
p.m.-Finance Forum, Herbert Evers, Hayes Healy Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "M," An· nenberg Auditorium, 52 

•II 
p.m. -Captured Live, David Edmunds, WSND-AM64 


, T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 

The Far·side 

"My project's ready for grading, Mr. Big Nose .. : Hey! I'm talkin' to YOU, squidbrain!" 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 3·2·1 Contact 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC, World News Tonight 
34 Over Easy 16 M·A·S·H 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Shogun 22 Square Pegs 28 That's Incredible 34 Front Line 22 Filthy Rich 22 MASH 28 ABC Monday Night Movie 
34 The Shakespeare Plays 22 Newhart 22 Cagney and Lacey 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 2H 34 Indiana Lawmakers 16 Tonight Show 22 Trapper john and Columbo 28 ABC News Nightline 
.. 
.. 
51 Like pickle 52 Greek 
nickname 55 Ambience 56 Long-eared 
hare 59 Deposited 60 Century 
plant 61 Bring about 62 Scores for 
Rams: abbr. 63 Bother! 64 Matriculate 
DOWN 1 Voodoo spell 2 Bedouin 
garments 3 Nutty 4 Wapiti 5 Tar 6 Form 7 Onetime 
film star 
Velez 8 Mum's kin 9 Travel 
document 10 Word with man or mat 11 Places for 
wayfarers 12 Apportion 15 Floating 17 Festive 
drink: var . 22 Falk of films 

23 Peril 24 Papal vestment 25 Suva's islands 26 San Antonio mission 27 Transfer 
item 28 Misrepre­sent 
29 Old poetry collections 30 Della of 
song 31 Methods: abbr. 
33 Conjurors' rods 
36 Made of a certain grain 
37 Preserves 
container 38 Encourage 43 Trojan epic 44 Sightsee 45 Greeley 
or Mann 47 Fakes 48 Seasoning 
author 51 Bluebonnet 52 Be next to 53 Go up 54 Roman route 57 Pie-mode 58 Taboo 
Monday,January 31, 1983-page 16
S~orts 
·'close, but no cigar" 
UCLA edges out Irish, again 
By CHRIS NEEDLES 
Sports Editor 
• 
Los Angeles -For Digger Phelps and Notre Dame, it is becoming an 
all-too-familiar pattern. It is becoming as much a part of a road trip as jet lag, lost luggage, and small beds. · 
It is Notre Dame'"!i. "close but no cigar" game plan, where the Irish jump out to an early lead, the oppos­tion ties it up, and then the Irish hope the breaks go their way in the final five minutes to steal a victory. 
On one occasion, at Marquette two weeks ago, it worked. But yesterday, for the fourth time this season, it did not. 
The key free throw was not hit, the key rebounds were not grabbed, and as a result Nore Dame lost an­other nail-biter, 59-53, to lame-duck No. 1 UCLA before 11,425 here at Pauley Pavilion yesterday. 
Ironically, it was freshman Jim Dolan -the hero of the Marquette upset -who missed the front end of a one-and-one with 5S seconds left, denying the Irish a chance to tie the game at 55, and enabling the Bruins to clinch the vixtory with four tree throws oftheir own. 
Also ironic was that junior Ralph Jackson, who beat the Irish on Dec. 4 with a last-second layup, hit the deciding free throws. For the second time this year, Notre Dame, and specifically John Paxson, shut down the highly-regarded Rod Foster ­only 12 points -but for the second 
time, Jackson picked up the slack with 10 ofhis own. For Phelps, it was another dis­
~ucLA women rout Notre Dame by 31 
By CHRIS NEEDLES game that coach Mary OiStanislao Sports Editor dreads. In the Crush Tournament in 
LOS ANGELES -Contrary to Chicago in November, Notre Dame what you may think, not every UCLA tried to run with the Bruins, losing coed is a song girl. It only seems that 82-54. The other night in Tempe, 
way. the Irish found themselves in anoth­
For instance, some girls here play er track meet, and the results were basketball, perhaps because they no different. aren't song girl material, but probab­But, unlike Thursday's dismal I 1­ly because they play it well. 0 early deficit, the Irish stayed with­
The Notre Dame women's team in striking distance from the outset. 
appointing finish to a game his team was in from start to finish. "We did a great. job ofdoing what 

. we wanted to do." said Phelps, whose team dropped to I0-7 with its second straight loss. "We were ahlt­to control the tempo from the out­set. We had some positive sputs in the first half, but we were never in a position in the last five n1innutes to go for the lead with the score tied. "UCLA is a very talented team, and they beat you with their talent. (Kenny j Fields had a couple key rebounds at the end, they made their foul shots, and we didn't." Once again, Notre Dame was able to take liCLA out of its high­powered, race horse offense. The Bruins, who normaly average H:'> points a game, managed just 59 after registering only 65 in their Decem­her matchup at the ACC. "A lot of teams, when they play UCLA get anxious against their press," said Phelp~. "They turn the ball over and that leads to a lot of points. But we handled the press very well as a team, and we even created a lot of scoring situations against the press. And when we don't have it, we have the patience to pull it out and set up." As usual, Notre Dame failed to hang on to an early lead. Two buck­ets in a row by Paxson gave the Irish their biggest lead, 28-20, with 4:29 left in the first half But then ND went though a 5:30 cold spell that saw its eight-point lead become a 
See MEN, page 10 


learned this for a second time this They even led 1 1-9 after eight season as it found itself just plain minutes before UCLA, playing its overmatched for the second time on second game in two nights, finally this West Coast swing, losing 84-53 woke up. to No. 16 UCLA before 502 fans at Despite shooting 26-percent and Pauley Pavilion. getting outrebounded 37-12 in the 
Just as in Thursday's night's 25-first half, Notre Dame trailed by just point loss at Arizona State, the Irish nine, 32-23, when the teams went were unable to get the production into the locker rooms. they needed inside. Leading scorer But the Irish were left breathless Mary Beth Schueth, held to a career­in the second half by a I 5-point low two points against the Sun UCLA outburst, mostly on Devils, recorded just seven points fastbreaks, that broke open the against the Bruins. once-competitive contest. 
But it wasn't entirely Schueth's Thompson, a legitimate All­fault. The Bruins, thanks to the work . America candidate, had 16 points of a couple of 6-1 horses named and 9 rebounds, but it was the un­Necie Thompson and Charlotte heralded Jones who did most of the 'Char' Jones, clogged up the middle darr.age. Jones, a sophomore from and forced Notre Dame to bomb Compton, Calif., came off the bench from the outside. to pump in a game-high. 19 points
.. The Irish, having trouble shooting and grab 10 rebounds in 28 minutes. ( 34-percent for the game) and get­Junior Jackie Joyner added 10 for ting mauled on the boards (UCLA the winners. outreboundt>d them, 56-25) were 
See WOMEN, page 12

forced into a running game -a 
Washington Redskins' john Riggins flew over the Minnesota Vikings on the way to the Super Bowl. But yesterday, Riggins just plain ran over 
Fulfills advance billing 
Riggins bulls Redskins to victory 
By SKIP DESJARDIN and scored the longest rushing There is nobody like them in the Sports EditorEmeritus touchdown in Super Bowl history, ~orld." on his way to the MVP trophy. Although he threw twu intercep­
Pasadena, Cal. -They have been "Rig told me he needed to carry tions and broke up another possible trying times for John Riggins, these the ball 15-20 times, and I was interception himself, Theismann past few years. He left the New York skeptical," said Washington coach was 15 of 23 for 143 yards on the Jets, staying our offootball for a year Joe Gibbs. "But he just gets better as afternoon. in a contract dispute. He never quite he goes along." "I got a little shaky out there this lived up to the advanced billing that Riggins, who finished with 166 afternoon, but we man·aged to hang had been accorded him when he yards on 38 carries, turned the game together," he said. "It's not a one-or 
came into the league. around in the fourth quarter with his two-man team." Until this season. 43-yard touchdown run. On fourth Gibbs, the Coach of the Year in With playoff performances un­down and one, he went around left the NFL this season, felt that persis­
matched by any player in history, end, over cornerback Don McNeal, tence and consistency were the keys 
Riggins capped off his best year ever and all the way into the endzone. to the Redskin victory. by leading the Washington Redskins "It's a play we ran all season," ex­"I think some people underes­to a 27-17 win over the Miami Dol­plained Riggins. "We ran it seven or timated ·us because we're a total phins in Super Bowl XVII. eight times against Dallas last week. team," he told reporters. "We've 
The Redskin fullback set Super If we can get through the line we been kind of a tough, physical team 
Bowl records for rushes and yards, make a big play. I told Theismann we and I think that's what you've got to were close to breaking it several do to win the Super Bowl. You've times." got to be tough and physical, and 
The Redskins dominated much of you've got to rake your chances." the game -particularly the second half -and controlled every aspect 
For Don Shula, who walked away except one, the scoreboard. Miami 
from the champion.~hip game a loser for the third time, the unwillingness
got touchdowns on ,a 76-yard David "to take chances proved costly.
Woodley-to-Jimmy Cefalo pass and a 98-yard kickofi· return by Fulton 

Simla's normally wide-open offense sputtered and could not stay with
Walker. Beyond that it could muster the Red~kins through the whole
very little otlense. game.
"We went after it in the first half "I thought at halftime we were in
and we came up with ~orne very big good shape and all we had to do was
plays," said Miami coacn Don Simla. go back out there and keep doing
"But in the second half, we could not what we had done in the tirst half."
contain them, and we could not said Shula. 
make a first down offensively." Woodley completed just four of 

"It's going to he a tough one to his fourteen passes for 97 yards, and hav<: to live with.'' he continued, was replaced by his backup, Don "but this team, these .\1iami Dol­Strock, in the waning moments. 
phins, have accom-plished a lot of 
Former Notre Dame quarterback 

things this year, and I'm proud of Joe Theismann, on the other hand, 
that." threw two touchdown passes and 
The key to it all, however, was Rig­led a Redskin ofiense that seemed, at 
gim,.times, to move the hall almost at will. After a congratulatory phone call "I think we can all pinch ourselves from President Reagan, Riggins now," said Theismann. "The dream broke his selt~imposed silence and is over. There is no other pinnacle spoke briefly with reporters. we have to climb. I'm so proud to be "Well, I'm very ·happy," he said, a member of the Washington "and, at least for tonight, Ron is the Redskins I can't begin to tell you. President, but I'm the king." 

/. 
~--~~A. 














