--~------------------------~ 
Irish Extra -page 9 

VOL XVIII, NO. 36 the: indc:pc:ndc:nt studc:nt nc:wspapc:r st-r\·ing notn dame and saint mary's FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1983 
Hefner explores changing sex roles 
By LIZ MILLER that work. Hefner feels that cor­News Staff porate executives "must integrate time with their families with time 
Today's changing roles for men devoted to work," and that flexible and women have lifted many of the hours must become the rule rather limitations of the 1950's, according than the exception. to Playboy President Christie Hef­Changes in sexual attitudes were ner. also included in Hefner's list. "A 
Speaking last night at Stepan Cen­decade ago the priority was ac­ter, Hefner said the norms that she complishing and accomplishing saw in her childhood in the 50's well," but now the relationship is "have not been replaced by other the priority and sex is only an aspect norms but that now there are no ofthat relationship, she said. norms at all." Hefner said her observations were 
Hefner's address on "Women, based on a Playboy survey on sexual Men, and Social Change" came after attitudes and behaviors given last her lecture to business graduate stu­year. Hefner was struck by the "lack dents in the Hayes-Healy of difference between the male and Auditorium at 4 p.m. yesterday on ant the same thing: a partner, she Playboy Enterprises as a business. said. 
Hefner, who was invited to speak "We live in interesting times but I by the business college, asked for ad­find that a blessing, not a curse." ditional time to address the whole Hefner asked for questions from University on a topic ofher choice. the floor after her speech. 
These are "interesting times," The first question, which con­Hefner said, because "the rules of cerned the compatibility of 
Playboy President Christie Hefner ana~yzes the Larry Ballinger, director of the Universi~v MBA
society are changing." During the Playboy's philosophy with that of 
changing role of men and women in society as program, looks on.
50's, 75 percent of families fit the the Roman Catholic Church, traditional definition, while only 12 reflected the controversy surround­percent fit that definition today, Hef­ing Hefner's visit. She answered by ner said. She sees this not as the end asking for a definition of the 
Roemer 'does not regret' response
of the family, but as a broadening of philosophy of the Roman Catholic its definition. Church, to illustrate her idea that A reason for this change is that for neither institution has a monolithic ByJIM BASILE prohibited by university policy ant d Sept. 28 letter Roemer commented both women and minorities "there philosophy. News Staff 
on the terms of the understanding the university, "has no intt·ntion of has been a struggle for options," she Asked about Playboy's stand on whereby they occupy the building." 
asking the Knights to move. I mnelysaid. The struggle, which was suc­abortion, Hefner said the issue is Dean of Students James Roemer Roemer's strong response, hinting wanted to impress upon them the cessful in the past, has now resulted "perhaps more personal than any said he "does not regret" the strong that the Knights may have to leave 
fact that they must not allow alcohol in women and minorities having to other that we have to deal with," but position he took against the use of the building, was a reaction to in that ouilding. Alcohol is the issue. 
choose between their new-found that Playboy does support the right the Knights of Columbus building "continual problems regarding the All the other stuff is to make the 
options, she added. to choose. for parties serving alcoholic usc ofalcohol in the building. point." Roemer commented, "t have Another outgrowth of this Further evidence of controversy 
beverages. "The issue is alcohol, alcohol, al­no objection to the Knights rentingstruggle, according to Hefner, was came when an older listener asked Roemer said his response to the K cohol. The Knights must not allow 
out the building for non-alcoholic the "me decade" of the 70's, in whether Playboy didn't "prqmote C-supported Senate alcohol the the
of Student in building and parties." Roemer explained his posi­which there was increasing separa­the exploitation ofwomen by men." resolution allowing the parties was 
Senate cannot change that," Roemer tion to the leadership of the Knights tion ofthe sexes as "women tried to Hefner's answer was that people get meant to "correct any misun­stated. 
in an October I 2 meeting. find their place in the work force." "different messages from the derstanding on the part of the stu­"This is the third year in a row that Aside from clarifying the univer­The change is also illustrated with magazine." dent body." the problem ofalcohol use has come 
sity policy to the Knights, Roemer men in the workplace who "no lon­She added that readers ofPlayboy Roemer's primary goal was to up." 
tried to prevent any misunderstand­ger have a support system at home" "alert the Knights that alcoholic Roemer said the problem arose 
ing on the part of the student body.
see HEFNER, page 7

because ofthe prominence ofwives beverages in their building are despite the fact that in a letter to the He said he felt the Student Senate Dean last January the Knights in­resolution gave the impression that formed him that "alcohol will no use of the Knights building for al­longer be permitted in the K of C coholic purposes was now per­

Office computer systems donated, 
building." After reading in The Ob. mitted. Roemer explained, "the server that the Semite resolution was Student Senate has no power to passed with support of the Knights, make policy changes. No university I 

part of $500,000 Philip's program 
Roemer said he "had to move quick­know of ever forms a group outside ly and go right to the source to nul­of the administration to change uni-
Special to The Observer being used by both students and ad­John Clark, Philips initiated the 
lify the problem."
ministrative personnel. The new sys­education donation program as a see K of C, page 5
Despite the strong language ofhis
Notre Dame has received two tems will be used in the offices of way of exposing colleges and uni­high-performance automated office Father David Tyson, assistant to the versities to the concept of office systems from Philips Information University president, Timothy automation and "the growing im­
Human rights secretary
Systems as part ofa $500,000 educa­O'Meara, University provost, and pact it is having in nearly every sec­donation program. Howard). Kenna, professor ofmath­tor ofsociety." At present, Notre Dame has 21 ematics. Clark says that Notre Dame was Philips systems installed on campus According to Philips President chosen to receive the systems be­

discusses Samoza plans
cause of its reputation as a leader in the field ofhigher education and "its ByJOHN MENNELL The commission is set up for the commitment to offering its students News Staff "promotion and protection of the latest in new technologies as a human rights," Vargas said, although way of preparing them for today's Calling for an "immediate replace­"most of the time and resources la~t competitive job market." ment of the Samoza regime" in year were spent on protection." 
The new systems include a l28K Nicaragua was one of the key ways The lecture, entitled "Human memory capacity word processor the Inter-American Commission on Rights in Latin America: A Different with video display and detachable Human Rights has affected society, Perspe<:tive from the Inter­keyboard, a dual diskette drive, a 40-according to the commission's ex­American Commission" presented character-per-second letter-quality ecutive secretary. yesterday at the Center for Social 
printer and a high-level word "With Samoza in power it was im­Concerns was sponsored by the processing software package, which possible to improve human rights in Helen Kellogg Instit.ute for Interna­includes sorting capability, merge, Nicaragua," said secretary Edmundo tional Studies. locate glossary, and math. Each sys­Vargas. Before assuming his present posi­tem normally retails for $10,000. "The commission is the main or­tion with the commission, Vargas 
The Notre Dame award is the gan of the Organization ofAmerican taught international law at Latin­third in a series of donation by States," he said, "It's· impact on American universities including the Philips of more than $500,000 societies is enormous." When the University of Caracas and the Cath­worth of systems to colleges and commission is informed of human olic University ofChile. He served as universities across the country. A rights violations it contacts the a legai advisor in the administration 
spokesman for Philips said the government involved. "This initial of Chilean president Eduardo Frei 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, accepts two recipients have been chosen by communication is very important. and is the author of books and ar­new automated office systems from Philips Information Systems Philips based on nominations from Sometimes it has saved a life," Vargas ticles on international law and Presidentjohn Clark. dealers and branch offices. said. · . human rights. 


The Observer Friday, October 14, 1983 -page 2 


In Brief 
Alejandro Foxley, professorof economics at 
the L:niversity's flden Kellogg Institute for International Studies, has been elected as a member of the International Economic Associa­tion's executive commiltee for a three-year term. Foxley, who joined Notre Dame's faculty last year, is also an associate editor of the journal of Dewlopment Economics and of El Trimestre Hccmomico in Mexico. A Chilean native, he t is director of the Cor­poration for Economic Research in Latin American in Santiago. His most recent book, Latin American Experiments in Neoconservative Economics. was published last june by the University of California Prcss. -The Observer 
President Reagan gave the go-ahead on yesterday for the establishment of a campaign commiltee for the re-election of himself and Vice President George Bush. Sen. Paul Laxalt, R-Nev., who will head the effort, said "I have no doubt ... that Ronald Reagan will be a candidate for re-election." Laxalt, the general chair­man of the Republican party and the chairman of both previous Reagan campaigns for the presidency, said he would formally estab­
lish the re-election panel on Monday and file the necessary docu­ments with the Federal Election Commission. Also on Monday, the president will sign a leiter formally authorizing the step, Laxalt said, noting that "he will legally be a candidate at that point." Laxalt spoke to reporters in the White House driveway after Reagan gave him the green light. The White House press staff took pains to call attention to his visit. He said that Reagan would delay a full declaration of his candidacy until the current congressional session ends, probably shortly before Thanksgiving. "I think that his position in delaying his final announcement until after Congress adjourns is entirely ap· propriate," he said. -AP 
A 53-year-old minister in Indianapolis was held on $1 S,OOO bond Thursday after being charged with sexually ex­ploiting runaway girls, and in one case, taking them to his church's basemem, police said. The Rev. Clifton Morris of Indianapolis was booked Wednesday on four felony counts of child molesting, offi­cials said. The pastor ofthe Beech Grove Church ofGod was held in the Marion County jail on Sl 5,000 bond. The girls he is accused of molesting ranged in age from 9 to I 3, Indianapolis vice detectives said. Detective Thomas N. Wininger said Morris drove the church van or his personal t.·ar while looking for girls. He would look for young prostitutes or go to a park where runaways congregate, police said. Police alleged that Morris usually engaged in sex acts with the runaways in thc vchidcs. Oncc last summcr, however, the pastor "did transport three victims to the church basement where he had rdations," Wininger said. The incident at the dmrch appcars to be isolated, .tnd no ont.· dst.· ar tht.· church is under suspicion, dctcctives ~aid. Morri~ is married and has lwen an ordained minister 20 ycars, polict.· !'>aid. -ciP 
Samples from shipments of frozen ground bcct stort.·d in South Bend. Indianapolis, and Vincennes ·ordde<n'i>r the school lund1 program have been found free of contamination, the: Agril'ulture Depart men! said yesterday. Indiana health officials ear­lin had orderni all beef stored in these cities cmbargoed for use, pt.·nding rt.·sts l(>r contamination. llowever. one sample from a ship· ment stored in Tuscaloosa. Ala., was found to contain two "microscopic insect fragments," the USDA said yesterday. john McClung of thc department's Food Safety and Inspection Service 
s;lid, "Thes<· fragnwnts, like others reported last week, are of no human health signitkance in and of themsi:lves." The department ha!'> now found found insect contamination in seven samples ofmeat from 97 that han· undergone laboratory tests. McClung said the other 50 ~ampks reported Thursday, all found to be free of con­tamination. Thost.· included four samples from Gering, Neb., and two sampks t.·ach from meat stored in: denver; Mobile, Ala.; Columbus, (;a.; Altoona. Pa.; York. Pa.; Seattk, Wash.; Vincennes, Ind.; In­dianapolis; South Ht.·nd, Ind.; Las Vegas, Nev.; Eugene, Ore.; Duluth, Minn.; and St. Paul, Minn. Samples arc being taken from millions of pounds of frozen ground ht.-ef which had been sold to llSDA for dis­tribution to school districts across the country. The meat was bought from two plants -Cattk King of Denver and Nebraska Beef Inc ofC;t.·ring. Nt'h. -..II' 
Of Interest .. ~ : 
A workshop on communicationskills will 
he tomorrow morning in the Fatima Retreat House starting at H:30. Tht.· workshop, sponsored by the River Bend chapter of Professional St.Tretary lntcrnational. will analyze the best ways to communicate. The workshop is designed mostly for staff and faculty. Registration t.·osts $I 0. -The Ohsen•er 
Campus Masses this Sundaywill focus on the 
issuc of world hunger. in commcmoration of World Food Day. The World Hungcr Coalition, which organized the Mass theme, also is sponsoring a daylong fast on Monday with a Mass ending the fast at 
5: I 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. -The Obsen•er 


Weather 
Mostly sunny today. Breezy and very cool with a high in mid 50s. Clear and cool tonight. Low in low 40s. Increasing cloudi­ness and warmer Nmprrow witil ~ pigh i.JJ,.Io"! {iQ~..-#,, ,-,-.-,·.:,·,,·• 

Aftermath 
of Korean 
bombing 
APPhoto 

The flag-draped coffins of the Korean tJictims in Sunday's homb blast au•ait burial at the National Cemetary in southen1 Seoul yester­day. 
_ The_Ohs.erYer_ 
Composilio11 Editor.......... ..... Mary !leafy Composition Assistant...................... Susan Typesellers ...................... Michc:lk ;md Ted News lidltor.........................)cfJ flarrington Copv Editor..................... Dan McCullough Sports Cop)•Edilor)effand Mike Sullivan Fl'tllures Copy Editor....... ..... Pclcr Ciotta Editorials Layout................................. Ken 
Featurt•s Layout ................................... Sarah ND /Ja)• Etlilor................... Kathken Doyle SMC D<~)' Editor........................)ody Radkr Ad J)eslgn .................... .. ........ Rob Photographer........ ................... <:arol Galc:s c;uest Appt..'llrances....janl·t from Marion, 
Krra CroM, and rhc Auhurn Press 
Quote ofthe Da)' Country gir/,ltbinkyou're pret~J' 
CSNY 


The0baerver(USPS598920)is 
pubhshed Monday through Fndayand on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacation penods. The Obaerver IS published
by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnting The
Obeerver. P.O Box Q. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556.
The Obeenler 1s a member of The Aaocl.ted ,...... All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
South Korean Pn'me Minister 
Kim Sang-Hyup, a chairman ofthe 
national funeral committee, 
delivers his condolence address 
hefore the alter yesterday during a massive national funeral sen•ice for the Rangoon explosion victims. Thefuneral was at Yodio Plaza and was attended by an estimated one 
million mourners. 

Tu•o fami()' members of one of the /6 Koreans killed in Sundt~y·s bombing in Rangoon openZJ' weep during a burial riteyesterday at the National Cemetary after the funeral service. 


AI""*> 
japanese Forf!ign Minister Shin­taro Abe (left), Taiwanese Defense Minister Soong Cban-chlh (center) and U.S. Defense Secrf!tt.try Caspar Weinberger (right) yesterday at­tended tbe nationalfuneral for tbe 17 Koreans killed In Sunday's bomb blast in Rangoon, Burma. 
APPhoto 
r----------------~ 
I 

II 
I 
I I I I
I I,
I 
I 
1 
I
I 
1 I1 1 
. 
II 

INFLATION f GOIYOUI ILOOD BOILING? 
We can help relieve some of. that pressure! 
HOW7wewillpayyou 
I 
II 
I 
I 
1 
I 
up to $16 CASH Per week for your time. I 
It's easy. Just come in to our new modern facility relax in comfy I 
"cllolog ch•lco whllo yo" don•to LIFE-GIVING PLASMA. 
I 
You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your 1 second donation within the same week...AND we will give you a I free physical exam and over $60 worth of free lab tests. 
PLUS I We Will Give You an Additional 
I 
$4 If you bring this ad with you. I 
'(offerapplicable tofi1'1it time dono1'1i only!) I 
For more information call 
I 
234 601 0 515 L' 1
• or come by mco nway West Bring your I.D. 
I 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS I 
A N tl IC D 
I 
a ona oncern edicated to Extending the Lives ot Others Tues and Sat 8am-5pm I Wed and Fri 9am-5pm 
·.-....,·,..·.;•.;;•.,;"•;.;"•;.;"•;.;"•;;.";.•"•;."-.·".-·",;;••,;;··;.;·;.;"•;.;..·;,;"...;;."-.·"-.-".;··-~·,.-,_·:',_...·....,..··------------____... 

The Observer Friday, October 14, 1983-page 3 



Student Activities Office shells out IDore than $41,000 to campus clubs 
Special to The Observer B.C.A. F. S2,000 Keenan Review 51,000 I.S.O. f675 L-5 Society S200 
More than 541,000 has been Accountiing Association !.300 Thomas More Society S650 awarded to 84 Notre Dame clubs A.I.E.S.E.C. 5.300 Pax Christi S'iOO and organizations, according to American Chemical Society S200 Right to Life S'iOO 
Director of Student Activities James AIA/ASC S.300 Shenanigans S'iOO McDonnell. AICE 5.300 St. Edward's Theatre Players S2'i0 
The money comes from alloca­ASCE S200 Student Organization f<~r Latin tions of the student activity fee Anthropology Club 1200 America SIOO which students pay at the beginning Arts and Letters Business Society S200 Students Against Drunk Driving S200 of each semester. Clubs requested League of Black Business Students $300 Voice of Faith $100 
the money in April, and McDonnell Society ofBlack Engineers S200 Young Democrats $200 gave approval last week. .-,_ Finance Club S300 Gymnastics Club S'iOO 
Four years ago, McDonnell noted, French Club 1.300 Rowing Club Sl,SOO 
fewer than 30 clubs were given Geology Club 1200 Rugby ssoo 
about $7,000. German Club S200 Sailing Club S';OO 
The clubs receiving money this Historical Society S 100 Volleyball (Men) S300 
year are: I.E.E.E. S300 Water Polo Sl'iO Irish Marauder Drill Team S100 Weightlifting Club 5200 Joint Engineering Council 5700 Women's Fastpitch Softball S'iOO 
5250

Amnesty International Greater London Alumni Club 1200 Women's Golf S-,00 
Arnold Air Society 5200 Management Club SIOO \X'onu·n's So<.-cer S.300 $.300
Big Brothers/Big Sisters Marketing Club S.300 Women's Track and Cross Country S400 C.!.L.A. 51,000 Math Club S7'i 
Senior Class S I,700 
$';00

Circle K Physics Cluh 5100 Junior Class SI,"'OO Council for the Fun and Learn Pre-Law Society 5.300 Sophomore Class SI.700 Center S600 Pre-Professional 5.300 Freshman Class S8SO 
Council for the Retarded S2,500 Psychology Club 5200 t:nited Way Student Campaign S.300 Heads tart 51 00 Society ofWomen Engineers $200 Van Lines 52,100 NCAA Volunteers for Youth $100 Sociology Club $.300 Advertising Expenses 
swo 

The Observer/Carol Gales Neighborhood Study Help Spanish Club 5400 Legal Aid and Defender Association $7'i0 Program S2,500 Abiogenesis Dance Collective S'iOO
Mural, mural onthe wall 
Sr. Marita's Primary Day School $200 Amateur Radio Club $265 
SAVE ( Studenl Advocates and Volunteers College Republicans $200 

Interior
Debbie Condon touches up on the Canadian portion ofa mural 
for the Elderly) S70 Competition Color Guard SJtlO
she bas been painting on the wall ofthe foreign studies office. on 
STEP (Student Tutorial Education Fellowship ofChristian Athletes $100
the fourth floor of the Adminstration Building Condon, a 
Project) 5600. GamingCinh SlOO 

secretary
secretary for Foreign Studies Director /saber Charles, ·pegan . 
American Leb~ese :club 5250 Ground Zero S450
working on hergeographical design last summertofill up a bla1lf? 
wall in the new office area. 

All-You-Can-Eat Brunch 

On Sundays, it's Brunch at the Marriott 
Every Sunday, from 10 a.m. to 2:30p.m., enjoy Brunch at the Marriott. A stupendous buffet of omelettes, waffles, and bagels, plus seafood, salads, cheeses. fruits, assorted hot entrees and vegetables. 
Thp your meal off with an array of mouth-watering desserts. 
BO'ITOMLESS 
glass of Champagne

1b add to your pleasure, there's 
served 12:30 · 2:30 p.m.
live entertainment too. All for 
(no additional charge)

$9.95 for adults, $4.95 for children under 12. For reservations, please call -234-2000 
SOUTH BEND _\\orriott HOTEL 
12:J N. St. Joseph Street, South Bend, Indiana 46601 

B.C.A.C. SI,OOO Japan Club sso 
Sl.JMMER PROGRAMS 
ND-SMC STUDENTS 
LONOON 
ROME 
May 23 ·June 22 June 17 ·July 16 
Trauel in Ireland Trauel in France 
Scotland &France Germany&Switzerland 
Courses in Art, Biology, Business, Hi!~~' ~~ Italian, Music, Sociology, and Theatrv~£~~ /( Informational Meeting: Oct 17th -~~~~/ Rm 288 Moreau (SMC) . ~ AI *Slides from last year's prograr. "-·~,_ ~.~ . ' . _ to be shown. &~. l ~-~ \
for Further Info. Call r __.-~ : 
-r -J·'
Prof. A.R. Black 4460 a-271-3726 "~~~:: '::~·. 
------.... ____ -----------··· ..._-· _.. :·.~lie_ 13-~P~I?I!<;a)l'l_>'!~t}:.:·: ::: ___ ; 

nominated 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON President Reagan on Thursday named William 
P. Clark, his national security adviser and "a God-fearing Westerner," to succeed James \X'att as secrt:tary of the interior. 
Clark, a longtime Reagan con­fidante, already is one of the most powerful men in the administration. In moving from the national security post that put Henry A. Kissinger and Zbigniew Brzzinski on the global stage, Clark would appt·ar to be' taking a step down in all but title. 
But "he is a God-fearing wester­ner, a fourth generation rancher, a person I trust and I think he will be a great secretary of the interior," Reagan said. 
The president made the stunning announcement at the end ofa talk to women leaders of Christian religious organizations. White House officials earlier had talked ofa 
"really long" list of contenders for the interior post, and virtually no one had mentioned Clark as being on it. 
According to deputy press secretary Larry Speakes, Reagan didn't even tell his inner circle ofad­visers he was considering Clark until just hours before revealing the deci­sion publicly. Speakes said Clark hadn't asked for the job; "It was the president's idea." 
Clark, S2, said he was "pleased and honored that the president has expressed his confidence in me by this nomination, and look forward to continuing my service to him and this administration." 
Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker Jr. of Tennessee said he was confident Clark . would be con­firmed. 

But the environmental com­munity criticized the appointment 
: and expressed bewilderment that Reagan would choose someone with no apparent background in con­servation issues. 
"It is a preposterous appointment and an insult to the American en­vironment," said Willaim Turnage, executive director of the Wilder­ness Society. "It is the third time that President Reagan has appointed Mr. Clark to a job for which he has no apparent qualificaions ... The ap­pointment apparently is being made as a sop to the extreme right wing of 


The Observer Friday, O~tober 14, 1983 -page 4 

Wisconsin primaries' new rules 
Associated Press 
MADISON. W'i~. -Primaries open to all vott·r~ have bt:en a tradi­tion in Wisconsin evt·r since the ear­ly part of tht: n:ntury. the: legacy of <iov. Robert "Fighting Bob" La Fol­lette's victory over political 






AU 010 BONANZA
kingmakers ami their caucus systC'm. But hc:causc of a din:ctivc from tht· lkmocratic National Commit· tet", the Wisconsin Democratic 

This sale only happens once a year. Take advantage of our demo, 
prcsidemial primary -the political testing ground that helped propel 

close outs, nick and scratched, one of a kind item sale only offered to 
John F. Kennt·dy and Jimmy Carter to the White: House -will he vir­

preferred customers, especially you. Only 3 days -sale ends October 
tually meaningless next ycar. The selection of dekgates to the 
17th.
party's national convt·ntion will revert to caucust·s. 

RECEIVERS TURNTABLES 
The change: has Wisconsin Republicans smiling, and Democrats 
frt·ttin~o:­

"1 think it stinks; it's a tragedy," said Attorncy Gem:ral Bronson La Follette, a grandson of "Fighting Bob." The attorncy gt·neral, a l>emonat, battled the Democratic National Committee on the issu<" all 1. Harman Kardon 680i Reg650 Now ... 499.95 tht· way to the Supreme Court."! 

2. Harman Kardon 570i Reg430 Now ... 299.95 
think many voter~ will he so upset 8000 Reg 700 Now ... 499.95 
Phase Linear they'll stay home:," he: said. 3. Harman Kardon 460i Reg 330 Now ... 249.95 

Thorens TD-147 Reg 550 Now ... 475.00 

The lkmocratic primary used to 4. Harman Kardon 350i 
Reg260 Now ... 199.95 
determine which candidate: would Thorens TD-115 Reg450 Now ... 288.00 he: supportcd by the: state's delega­5. Nikko NR-1000 Reg680 Now ... 469.95 
Thorens TD-166 Reg 260 Now ... 219.95 

tion to the l>emonatic National Reg430
6. Nikko NR-700 Now ... 279.95 
Convcntion. But the: party's National Dual 505 Reg 169 Now... 119.95 · Committcc won a victory in 19HO 7. Onkyo TX·51 Reg450 Now ... 249.95 Nikko ND-800 Reg200 Now .... 99.95 wht·n tht· U.S. Supreme Court rulcd 
8. Sony STR VX20 Reg280 Now ... 169.95 Now.... 59.95 
Nikko ND-500 Reg 120 

that Wisconsin Dcmonats could no longer sdcct their delegatcs via the 9. Sony STR VX200 Reg230 Now ... 129.95 primary as long as the: primary was 
All these turntables include $110 cartridges:

open to all voters. Nt·xt year the delegates will bt· 
Dual 
708·55 Reg 460 Now ... 249.95 
DECKS

choscn at caut·ust·s, four davs afier Dual 528·55 Reg 360 Now... 229.95 tht· April :1 primary. 
Dual 505-55 Reg 319.95 Now ... 179.95 

Tht• Republican primary, held on th ~ame day as the Democratic Sony LX Reg 129.95 Now...•79.95 primary. also will remain open, and 
as usu;~l will dett·rmine who is sup­ported by the state's ddegation to tht· Republican convention. The na­tional Republicans, unlike the Democr<~b. haven't chalknged the 1. Harman Kardon CD401 Reg 750 Now ... 649.95 open prim;~ry· ~}·srt·m. 
2. Harman Kardon CD 301 Reg540 Now ... 475.00 SPEAKERS 
Republican lt-aders. while public ly critical of tht· lkmm:ratic Nation 3. Harman Kardon CD 91 Reg265 Now ... 225.00 
a! Committee's insistence on 4.Aiwa Reg600 Now ... 399.95 All speakers are priced as each: rt·stricting Democratic balloting to 
5. Nikko ND800 Reg430 Now... 259.95 
lkmocrab. Sl'l'm gleeful ovt·r tht· prospect of reaping political Reg 250 Now ... 149.95 Reg 775 
6. Nikko NO 600 JBL-150 Now...499.95 
hendlts. "It Cl'ftainly b a step toward ward­7. Hitachi DE33 Reg240 Now... 139.95 Infinity Ref 1.5 Reg 440 Now ... 299.95 heeler politics." said state Sen. J.M. Reg200 SonySS-65 Reg450 Now... 225.00 
8. Sony TcfX25 Now 199.95 
"Mat·" Davis. R-Waukesha. Instead of 

Reg 200 EPI240A Reg 375 Now ... 199.95 
'';0,000 voters helping dett·rmint· 8. Sony TCFX25 Now...119.95 the national convt·ntion delegation EPI180C Reg280 Now... 169.95 commitment to candidates, the task 
EPI140C Reg240 Now... 149.95 
will fall to perhaps 2';,000 under tht· 

ACCESSORIES EPI110A Reg 180 Now•..119.95
caucus systt·m. according to some observers. EPI100A Reg 140 Now.... 99.95 
Tape Head Cleaner $6.99
State GOP leaders say voters 
EPI70A Reg 120 Now .... 59.95 

might he angt·rnl if, for exampll', Tape Head Demagnitizer $15.99 St·n. John <ilt·nn did well in the Complete Record Care Kit $19.95 Sony460 Reg 129.95 Now .... 49.95 l>t-mocratic primary· hut the 
Stylus Care Kit $4.99 
' 

l':IUCUSCS deddt•d 10 end <I ddq.;a­tion supporting another contt·ndt·r to tht· lkmm:ratie National Conven­t ion. 
"The lkmonats created this prohkm :md lht·(n· going to have to lin· with it." said J. Michael Bor­den. <iOP state chairman. "I think they're going to han· a tnrihlc hack­lash." 
Stall' Rep. .Jdl'rey Neubauer. (). 

Car Stereos 20 to 40 percent off
Hadm·. a :\londak backer, said nsin could ht· an important state for 19H·t n>ntenders. even though about h.tlf the state~ will 


Phono Cartridges Up to 50 percent off 
up to 199.95 -1 
Starting at$ I 
~­
Sony EHF·90 90 minute high bias 
---chrome tape samegg as TDK SA·90 or Maxell UDLX II 
1
have conduued primaries or 
each (Only sold in dozens) 
caucuses before April. In 1')(,(), Kennedy's victory· over 



ALL·TRONICS 
lluhnt II. llumphrcy by more than I I 0,000 votes in 1hl· \\: isconsin HOURS 
MasterCard

lkmocratic primary provnt to he ~..,.. 
MOft~>.,Fri: 11 to 9PM 

the turning point in that campaign. University Center · Visa
6502 N Grape Road 
And in 11.)76, <:arter's 7, ';OO-vote vic­Sat: 10 to 8PM 
Welcomed 
tory over the favorite. Morris Udall, 

Behind York Steak House Sun: 12 to 5PM
drew media attention to the h>rmt·r Mishawaka <ieorgia governor and gave his cam­paign a hoost; •, · • .,•·:· , •. ,,;.,-,:1, .,lfJ 
The Observer Friday, October 14, 1983-page 5 
West Germans protest, want U.S. missiles out 
Associated Press 
BREMERHAVEN, West Germany -Helmeted riot police dragged away 255 anti-nuclear protesters Thursday but 2.500 others blockaded a U.S. Army base and tem­porarily sealed off a major German port. Some demonstrators handed flowers to police. 
The demonstration was the start of a three-day protest against NATO deployment of new ll.S. nuclear missiles in Western Europe. It marks the start of a series of anti-nuclear protests scheduled around West Germany in the next I 0 days in what the peace movement bills as its "hot autumn." 
The protesters were carted away from the Carl Schurz Barracks and adjoining Midgard Harbor, where 
U.S. ammunition and supplies are unloaded. The protesters went limp in a display of passive resistance, while other demonstrators shouted, "Let them go!" and chanted "We don't want your weapons." 
Police Chief Eckart Naumann said all but 55 of the protesters detained were released. The 55 were iden­tified as "troublemakers" and will be held until the protest is over. he said. 
Armored police personnel car­riers were backed hy some 6,000 of­ficers. including 5,000 riot police and border guards brought in from surrounding cities to prevent violence during the three-day blockade. 
Police said the heavy security was a response to unsigned leaflets dis­tributed in recent weeks by anti· nuclear activists who urged violence against the base. But there has been no violence so far. 
A U.S. Army spokesman confirmed that ground traffic had been halted to and from the base. Helicopters were seen landing at the base throughout the day. 
The Army refused to say whether personnel had been ordered to stay on base during the demonstration. 
U.S. military sources earlier had said such a "lock-in" would be put into 
effect  at  any  base  temporarily  
blockaded  by  German  
demonstrators.  

Ships ferried shift workers to the docks, and work inside the shipyards continued as usual, the officials said. 
The Midgard port, used by the American Military Sealift Command to bring supplies and ammunition into the country, has become a tar­get ofthe West German peace move­ment. An estimated 25 percent of the goods unloaded at the Midgard harbor are for the U.S. Army. 
Protest organizers predicted 30,000 demonstrators would be on the scene by Saturdav. 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:01 Dinner 5:00 P.M. Closed Sunda & Holid 
Wondering where to go for dinner Saturday October22? 
Come to Ramada's 
"After Game Buffet" 
in our beautiful Vineyard room. 
There will be a delicious buffet starting at 6:30 p.m. And Live Entertainment with the popular "Britches" Band. 
From 7 ·11 p.m. Adults $9.95 Children $4.95 (tax included) Buy your tickets in advance at the catering office 
272-5220 
52890 U.S. 31 North South Bend, IN 46637·" CHECK COUPON SHEET INSERTED IN SOUTH BEND TRIBUNE 
Servicing careers 

A crowd gathers around several booths in the LaFortune ballroom to gain advice and informd­tion about careeropportunities. PaulReynoldsof career/placement services estimated that more than 500 persons attended the annual Arts and Letters Career Placement Dt~y yesterday-the tar· gest turnout ever. 

South Koreans mourn 17 killed in alleged North Korean bombing 
Associated Press Sirens sounded across the nation on a gray, rainy morning to signal a moment of silent tribute at the start 
SEot:L, South Korea-With tears of the funeral in a plaza on Yo ida Is­~n.-1 wailinl!. incense and flowers. at lan.-1 in thf:' Han River that runs 
• 
General Business 

• 
Accounting 

• 
Production 

• 
Finance· 

• 
Marketing 

• 
Data Processing 

• 
Management 



Mercantile Bank has made a solid invest­ment in the future by introducing new developments in banking and state-of­the-art DP technology to respond to the needs of a changing environment. Our professional career programs match your abilities with our needs, in areas of specialization that include: 
• 
Accounting 4r Auditing 

• 
Operations 

• 
Data Processing 

• 
Commercial Lending 

• 
Trust Investment 

• 
Retail Banking 

• 
International Banking 

• 
Bond Portfolio Management 



Educational assistance is available. as well as opportunities for career advance­ment based on performance. A 6-month Management Development Program is offered to expose you to a wide variety of career options in banking. 
Make your appointment now at the Placement Office, or send your resume directly to: College Recruiting, MERCAN· TILE TRUST COMPANY NA., 721 Locust Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63166. 


atrocity, a sin against both God and mankind and a violation of both the will of heaven and the conscienu: of man. was perp~·trated hy the North Kon:a Communis!~. who are of the 
economiC p1ann111g mmi,.,ltT. ~u11 Suk-joon, Foreign Minister Lee Bum­suk, presidential chief secretary [lahm Pyong-choon and the presidential adviser on economic af­fairs, Kimjae-ik. 
• • • KofC 
continuedfrom page I 
versity policy." He also said he did 
not veto the Student Senate resolu­
tion because, "The Senate has no 
legislative power." 
Roemer continued that the only 
way the Senate could change l:ni· 
versity policy is to present their 
resolution to the Campus Life Coun­
cil, "the officially appointed board 
consisting of faculty, students, and 
administrators." The CLC could 
then present the resolution to the 
Father john Van Wolvlear, Vice 
President of Student Affairs, ti>r his 
consideration. 
Although Roemer views the Stu­dent Senate as "a good influer :e in an academic community". he added that he did not want the student body misled into believing that Senate resolutions carry the power to change Univt:rsity policy such as the alcohol rt:gulations. 


The Observer Friday, October 14, 1983-page 6 

APPboro
Book I'air 
Set>eral prosDeclive buyers browse through selectionsatan inter­national bo(hl fair which opened to the public Wednesday in Frankfurt, Wt st Germany. 
838cr~,·t~5~u4vc-,..,'-4~ 
vc.:;~t~1·&~~ ~ -,~~t ~ 'Ns4u ... le~~~ese-st.,Je ~'1'·~s 
IUA»t:.aa•Ai"IUaa Clip and save tbil schedule for easy travel planntn1! 'n.O'Hare from O'Hare 

ARRIVE NOTRE DAME 
LEAVE 
IUS O'HARE 
SHELTER 
1:30 l.m. 
11:00 1.11. 
10:30 l.m. 
1:00 p.m. 
12:30 p.m. 
3:00 p.m. 
2:30 p.m. 
5:00 p.m. 4:30p.m. 
7:00 p.m. 
1:30 
p.m. 


9:00p.m. 
1:30 
p.m. 

11:00 p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
1:30 a.m. 
TIMES EFFECTIVE THROUGH OCT. 30, 1983. CALL FOR COMPLETE UST OF PICKUP POINTS AND TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
(219) 674-6993 
OR CALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT. 

Jesse Jackson calls for formation of nationwide minority coalition 
Associated Press 

EVANSVILLE, Ind. -A new coali­
tion of blacks, women and hispanics 
can change the outcome of the na­
tional, state and local elections 
throughout the country, the Rev. 
JesseJackson said Thursday. 

Jackson also said that coalition 
may make possible his own can­
didacy for president. 

The civil rights leader was not ac­tually in Indiana on Thursday. He was in Houston but was connected with I4 Indiana cities through a telephone hookup. 
"There must be ...a new coali­
tion of small farmers, poor whites, 
blacks, hispanics and others to re­
direct the course of this nation and 
changes its leadership," Jackson 
said. 

The issues being raised by tbe 
Rainbow Coaltion are not just im­
portant to blacks or hispanics but af­
fect everyone in the country, he 
said. 

Jackson, who is of! leave from his post as president ofOperation Push, is being mentioned as a possible can­didate for national office and he did not preclude that possibility provid­ing certain conditions are met. 
But having one black man elected 
Choose from, Hank Williams, Jr., Pollee, Michael Stanley, Air Supply, Stevie Nicks, Motels, Quiet Riot, Pat 
Benatar, and 
::·:sASFl 
r_. 
120 rr . 

T ·I ~BASF VIDEO 
chrome : I L 750 

TAPE
,I~ • T-120 
• L-750 
ONIVERSilY PARK MALL 
272-4186

589EA. '10" Reg. 
Your Headquarters For BASF 
..... " , .-' ........ "' ........... , ...................... 
~ 
to national office is not as significant as "changing the political priorities from the bottom up," Jackson said. 
Jackson said he would rather have I0,000 disadvantaged or effectively disenfranchised people running for local offices from sheriff to school board than having one black running for president. 
Nonetheless, Jackson said he is 
exploring the chances for his own 
candidacy. One of the major factors 
of that candidacy is finding out if 
there is support for it. 
And, as with any political race 
these days, that support must be 
measured, at \east in part, in terms of 
dollars. 
"If the money market test is positive .. .it would be an encourag­ing note," Jackson said. "It's impor­tant to see where the money is and where it is coming from." 
The barometer is whether S5,000 can be raised in 20 states so a can­didacy can qualify for matching funds, Jackson said. 
Jackson said he is not abandoning the Democratic party in this bid, nor is he "brokering for a personal posi­tion." 
The Rainbow Coalition is the "progressive wing" of the party which is looking for "a fundamental renegotiation of our relationship with the Democratic party." 

The party is going to have to make efforts to open up its processes to blacks, women, hispanics and others ifit wishes to count on the tradition­al support of those groups, jackson said. 
The Republicans, he said, were making inroads into that traditional constituency by running minorities and women in many areas, including the south. 
Michael Malone, an Evansville member of the Rainbow Coalition, said more teleconferences will be held in others states because it provides exposure relatively cheap­ly. 
Malone said inviting members of the general public to the con­ferences also provides something else. 
"Teleconferences with the media and community people keep the media honest," Malone said. "There is a very real concern that the press, in terms of trust, leaves a lot to be desired." 
The conferences were held in An­derson, Bloomington, Evansville, Fort Wayne, Gary, Indianapolis, jef­fersonville, Kokcmo, Lafayette, Marion, Muncie, Richmond, South Bend and Terre Haute. 
TheObserver Friday, October 14,1983-page 7 

Making a statement 
Formn' U.S. Secretary ofState Henry Kissinger makes a statement afterbe and other members of President Reagan's bi-partisan commission on 
APPboco 

Central America met with Salvadoran President Alvaro Magana. From left are: House Majority Leaderjames Wright, President Magana, San An­tonio MayorHenry Cisneros, and Kissinger. 


McCarthy's 

EST.1983 
Mon: Monday Night Football ­Pitchers $2 during game Toes: Two for One Draft Two drafts .75 Wed: Talentand Ladies Nite ­
Happy Hourprices to ladies 
Thurs: Cheers Nite ­. 25 draft8-10PM Frl: Pre-Game Nite ­
wake up the echoes with us! 
Sat: Sat. Morning Confusion ­
N.D. Dome 
NO Ave. 
HUlSt. 
*McCarthy's 
Irish Omelets 12.50; draft 7AM .10 
up a dime every hour till noon 
Sat. Afternoon Pre-Game Warm-Up $2.00 pitchers 2-8 
Uncle Vinnie Says: "Dillon daTf!s to be different, 4IO N. Hill Mon-Thurs II:00-I:OO Go Big Red" Fri IJ :00-2:00 Full line ofPub Gmb served daily Sat 7:00AM· 2:00AM 
-ACCOUNTING­SENIORS 
MAIN HURDMAN'S NOTRE DAME RECRUITING TEAM INVITES YOU TO MEET YOUR INTERVIEWER AT A STUDENT RECEPTION ON MONDAY EVENING , OCTOBER 17, 1983 IN THE ALUMNI ROOM OF THE MORRIS INN. 
SPEAKER: 
7:00 P.M. DENIS J. O'LEARY '73 
7:30 P.M. REFRESHMENTS 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS OCTOBER 18th and
Mairt ~CTOBER 19th 
®Hurdman 
Cer!lfed R.bltc Acc0ll1tants 

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER (M/F) 

1.............: .,-,.,..--....._'t"":t.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.:"':.~.~.~."'.:.":,~.:"':.~.~.~.~..~,;...-~~~,-:::..-.::.~,-::.-:.~.~.-c:-,~..~-~.~-..111......... '--......... v ••,..... -.... t. • " 
Israeli defense minister resigns after failure of new monetary plan 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Finance Minister Yoram Aridor:resigned Thursday, hours after · he proposed a revolutionary scheme that would have linked the Israeli economy to the American dollar. 
Aridor's plan to solve Israel's economic crisis was immediately as­sailed from all sides. Opponents said it would surrender Israeli indepen­dence and t1.1rn the country into America's "5I~t state." The Cabinet called an emergency session to dis­cuss it, and a few minutes after the meeting began Aridor emerged and announced his resignation. 
With Aridor gone his "dollarization" plan collapsed within 12 hours of its first publica­tion. But Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's newly installed govern­ment faced its first Cabinet crisis. 
Top candidates to replace Aridor 
REFRIGERATORS 
$35 per School Year 
FREE DELIVERY 




cALL Taylor Rental 
277.2190 
1427 N.lronwood 
25eDRAFTS 
< 

• • • EVERY NIGHT! 
(Monday thru Saturday, 7 PM to 12:30 AM) Introducing 
"The Coney Quarter Club" 
COME IN AND JOIN TODAY! 
After one purchase of  coupon  Limit one card to a  
at least one  FREE MEMBERSHlP  customer  
Coney Dog, burger or chili,  with food purchase and 21 I.D.  
unlimited  (Regular lifetime dues: $1.00)  
25¢ drafts for members!  valid after 7PM only  cards are not transferable  


Two 21 I.D.'s required for each card 

when his resignation takes effect Saturday were Energy Minister Yitzhak Modai and former Defense Minister Ezer Weizman. 
But Modai faces opposition inside his own divided Liberal Party in the governing Likud bloc, while Weiz­man's dovish views are unpalatable to the right-wing nationalist side of the Cabinet. 
The dollarizati.on ;drama began Thursday morning when the daily Yedioth Ahronoth reported that Aridor was proposingto cure Israel's money troubles" by wiring its economy into the American dollar. 
Aridor confirmed the report, saying he believed dollarization ~ his own term -would reduce Is­rael's triple-digit annual inflation to the level of inflation of other Wes­tern economies. 
As Aridor explained it, Israel's existing !>)'stem of automatically compensating salary earners for in­flation had led to "terrible distor­tions in the economy." Wages and prices were constantly pushing each other up, and "somewhere along the line we have to break this vicious circle." 
Thus he proposed linking all salaries and debts to the dollar and abolishing compensation for infla­tion. 
The proposal was met with outrage from within the Cabinet as well as from the political opposition. Aridor's critics charged that the plan would leave Israel entirely at the mercy ofAmerican benevolence. 
Thus dollarization struck a tt·nder national nerve. Many Israelis talked about Israel becoming "the 5 I st state ofthe t'nited States." 
Dollars already are deeply em­bedded in the Israeli economy. Many prices are set in dollars to avoid constant calculation of the· shekel rate. Dollar bank accounts are legal and popular as protection against inflation. 
Aridor had said dollarization could ultimately lead to the dollar becoming legal tender in Israel alongside the shekel, which was in­troduced in October 1980 at a value of 17 cents, and is now worth 1.2~ cents. The shekel was chosen w replace the lira inherited from British rule in Palestine. Its name is taken from the biblical Israelite measure for gold and it was con­sidered a symbol of renewed Israeli independence. 
;t 
• • • Hefner 
continued/rom page 1 
"have a celebratory attitude toward sex" since they are concerned with 
the  enjoyment  aspect  of  the  
magazine  rather  than  the  ex­ 
poitative aspect.  

On a lighter note, when asked about her father's role in the busi­ness, Hefner replied, "He gets to wear the pajamas." The older Hefner serves as chairman of the board of Playboy Enterprises, and editor of Playboy magazine. 
The questions ended when one eager undergraduate asked about the requirements to be a Playboy photographer. Hefner replied that there is a "long waiting list." 
Hefner graduated summa cum laude from Brandeis University in 1974 with a bachelor's degree in English and American Literature. She first joined Playboy in I975, and was named president of the com­pany. in 1982. _....••.... 
.. ""' .......... ..,. 'I> 


In this diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend, Notre Dame has give-n the hest response to the May 1983 Bishops' Pa.•..tc raJ Letter on Peace. 
Notre Dame's academic course, Nuclear Dilem­ma, is a high level answer to the hishop's plea for enlightened study and research on the complex moral questions raised hy the unprecedented production of weapons for mass destruction of millions ofpe• >pie. 
I hclieve, however, as do my hrother bishops, that the supt r-powers' present day potential to destroy a vast amount of God's own creation is so threatening and ominous that reasonahlc persons 
Imagine ifever;one in the llnited States and tht· Soviet llnion 1ad a gun strapped to his or IK·r ht·ad. Tht·sc g ms would be affixed at birth and would he impossible to remove. Everyone from Andropov to peasants in the Ukraine to Paul 1-ll::wruau. tv Soutl!~d._gas 
Michael Skelly Back again 
station attcnd.m s would have one: 1nt·y would bt· diret tl~ · controlkd by Moscow and Washington, and could be t1rt·d at any time, anywht-rt·, with no escape possible. 
Sounds mort· than a little farfetched, or per· 
hap!'! it is not. Fc •r although we often fail to 
rt·alize it, this is precisdy tht· situation every 
individual in tht· J.S. and U.S.S.R. faces today. 
Tht·se guns takC' the fi>rm ofthe vast nuclear arst·nals possesseJ by the two superpowers. These weapons c Ill he unkasht:d at any time, and art· capable uf killing nearly everyone h the two countrin. 
llndoubtedly·v•e art· all awart· of, if not ex· 

quickly can sense the need for God's intervention 
to prevent a global nuclear holocaust. 
The bishops have recommended prayer, abstinence from meat on Fridays, fasting from food, and good deeds ofcharity as tried and proven efficacious ways to implore God's mercy and help. 
More than any other group in this diocese, Notre Dame students have been serious about this recommendation. I particularly commend the stu­dents' idea of"fasting for a purpose," i.e. to eat les_s so that hungry people, benefiting from alms derived from fasting, will have something to eat. 
On Notre Dame's forthcoming day offast on Oc­

:No second chance with nuclear weapons 
tremcly concerned about this situation. The gun at our heads is the reality of the world. Man now has the means of completely destroying all of civilization, and the destructive potentials grow daily. 
This prospect is unprecedented in the human experience. This fortunate lack of his­torical precedent is perhaps the biggest obstacle to the problem's solution. 
A sign outside the gates of Dachau says "Never Again." The Holocaust, because it has happened and is embedded in man's historical experience, may hdp prevent future Holocausts. 
Modern man knows what he is capable of doing, and this awareness reduces the pos­sibility of future brutality on the order of Nazism. A nuclear holocaust, will teach man no lessons, as there may be no one left to learn them. 
The prospect of nuclear war is so uni­maginable and horrific that our minds cannot grasp it. Man has enough trouble understand­ing the prospect of his own death, let alone that ofthe human race. 
tober 16-I 7 I will be in Rome to give the Pope a report on this diocese. In a face-to-face interview with him I intend to extoll Notre Dame's solid Christian traditions, and for an update, I'll tell the Holy Father about the students' Day of Fast. 
Please do it up big and get everybody into it. Be sure the fast is accompanied by prayers for peace, particularly prayers for the intercession of "Notre Dame," Queen ofPeace. 
Bishop William E. McManus 

This possibility exists, however, and to prevent it man must overcome his narrow vi­sion ofthe everyday world and come to terms with the prospect of total genocide. A super­human effort may be required, but there is no alternative. 
Imagine, again, ifevery time the negotiators sat down they each had guns at each other's heads, and back home in their respective countries their children and everyone they knew also had guns at their heads. The reality of possible destruction would be so vivid, so within their grasp, that they would force themselves to reach some agreement to get the cursed guns offtheir heads. 
No government, it seems, would be able to 
withstand the pressure of a population held 
hostage by these hideous individual means of 
destruction a way would be found to get rid of 
them. There would be little talk ofthe number 
ofguns each person had strapped to his head, 
or the calibre ofthose guns. 
Distinctions ofthrow-weights and numbers of launchers would instantly fade as each in­dividual realized the possibility of sudden death and cried out for his release from this crystal clear threat. 
Nuclear annihilation is not a pleasant thought. Its . character, however, makes it none the less real nor any less likely. Ignoring the prospect of snuffing out our civilization will not make that threat go away. 

The guns are at our heads, and ifwe are to rid ourselves of them, we must acknowl­edge their presence and learn how they got there in the first place. They will not fall offof their own accord, only we can remove them. 
It is long past time that citizens took the issue of nuclear weapons (i.e. the fate of the earth) out of the hands of the "experts," the technologists, the generals and the politicians. Given the present level of destructive poten­tials, it seems they haven't done a very good job. 
If you want to learn more about the gun at your head, and how it might be disposed of, check out Ground Zero, a non-advocacy campus group that promotes education on the question ofnuclear arms. 

Editorial Board Department Managers 

'~L-========= Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic /lox{!. Notre /Jame. IN ·16556 (.! /<)) 23<J-5303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
Jhe Ohsl'rt•l.':· is tht· intkpt·ntknt newspaper publisht·d b\· the students of the Uni­Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas n·r~H)' of Notr•· I>amt· du l.ac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarilv reflect News Editor ................. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen tht· poliut·s of tht· administration of either institution. Tht· news is reported as ac· News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzanuc: i..a Croix curatdy and a~ ohjtTtin·lv as po~s1hk t·n~igned editorials represent the opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor . ....... , .. AJme Mo~~t~J5i Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miollo matorit~· ot the hlitonallloard. Commentaries. letter~. and the Inside Column present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamilto11 System Manager ............... Kevin Williams tht· \'Jt'W'ot the 1r authors. (:olumn ~pat't' is available to all mt•mbersoftht· n>mmunitv, Photo Editor .................... Scoll Bower ancl tht· free c·xpr~:s~ion of' \'.Irvin~ opimons on campu~. throu~h letter~. i~ encouraged. 
.\ports Editor.. ..\lichael Sullivan. Founded November 3, 1966 

The Four Horsemen Don Miller Elmer Layden Jim Crowley Harry Stuhldreher 
Military Strategy 
Irish hit road again to overrun Army 

By CHUCK FREEBY 
Sports Writer 
On the road again I just can 'I tl'aif to get on the road again The life flow is making music u•itb myfriends AndI can't u•ait to get on the road again 
Gerry Faust and Willie Nelson don't have much in com­
mon, but both should be familiar with this tune by now. 
Nelson's reason for knowing these words are obvious; 
but in Faust's case, it's because the Irish are preparingfor 
their fourth consecutive road game tomorrow afternoon 
when they take on Army in the Meadowlands ofEast Rut­
herford, N.J. at 1 p.m. EST. A capacity crowd of 76,891 is 
expected to be on hand for the 45th renewal ofthis tradi­
tional football rivalry. 
While some people may already have put this one in the victory column for the Irish, Faust knows not to take the 2-3 Cadets lightly. "Army is a talented football team." notes the Irish coach. "Theycould very easily be 4-I right now. They will give us a tough test." 
Indeed, first-year Army coach jim Young's team has quite a bit ofunpublicized talent. Speedy halfback Elton Atkins has been the heart ofthe Cadet attack this season, collecting 370 yards rushing and 122 yards receiving in the first five games. Atkins is a triple-threat, as he dis­played last week in the Cadets' 20-I2 victory over Rut­gers. Against the Scarlet Knights, the 5-l0, I85-pound junior ran for I 50 yards, threw for a touchdown pass, and caught several passes coming out of the backfield. This 
week, Atkins ranks third in the nation in all-purpose rus­
hing, and he will pose a constant danger to the Irish 
defense. 
When the Cadets aren't running the football, they rely 
on one ofthree quarterbacks to execute a fine passing at­
tack. Rob Healy is the starting quarterback, but he suf­
fered an injury in the Harvard game, and is questionable 
for Saturday's contest. The sophomore signal-caller has 
amassed some impressive stats in the first five contests, 
completing 44 of76 passes for 576 yards and one touch­
down. These statistics have not escaped Faust's attention. 
"Their passing game is excellent," says Faust. "Coach 
Young always has a complex offensive scheme." 
Faust knows ofYoung's talents first-hand. In his first 
year as coach ofthe Irish, Faust took his team to Purdue to 
take on Young's Boilermakers in West Lafayette. The Irish 
fell victim to the upset bug, as they lost I S-14 on some 
pinpoint passing by Scott Campbell in the final seconds. 

By the time the Boilers came to South Bend in 19H2, Young had yidded the coaching reigns to Leon Burtnett in order to assume a position as assistant athletic director at Purdue. 
However. after eighteen years as a college football coach, Young missed being on the sidelines on Saturday, and was one ofthe first people to apply for the Army job left open by the firing of Ed Cavanaugh last December. It didn't take the Cadet athletic stafflongto hire the veteran 
mentor. 

While Young will certainly try to confuse the Irish with multiple formations, the Irish will rely on execution of the basics to beat the Cadets. The Irish ground attack has been in high geru;, thanks to a fine job done by the Irish line. Sophomore tailback Allen Pinkett is one ofthe na­tion's top rushers, averaging nearly I05 yards per con­test. His darting style ofrunning is complemented by bruising fullbacks Chris Smith and Mark Brooks, who have been running over people when the holes have not been available. Smith had his best game ofthe year against South Carolina last Saturday, picking up 75 yards on 11 carries. 
On the rare occasions when the ground game stalls, Steve Beuerlein provides the Irish with a potent passing attack. The freshman quarterback has assumed his start­ing role nicely, completing 31 of 51 passes for 458 yards and two touchdowns. Most importantly, however, Beuer­lein has yet to throw an interception in two-and-a-half games, and has found a variety ofIrish receivers. 
While the Irish offense has been formidable, the Army 
defense has been just as strong, allowing opponents only 
20 points a game this season. The Cadet defense is led by 
the linebacking tandem of)im Gentile and John Roney. 
Gentile leads all Black Knight tacklers with 73 stops, 
while Roney places second with 60 tackles. While the 
linebackers have been the key to Young's 5-2 defense, the 
defensive ends have been solidifying the Cadet line. 
Seniors Larry Carroll and Glen Veevaert have been tough 
on opposing quarterbacks, making up for a lack ofsize 
with great quickness. The weak spot ofthe Cadet defense 
appears to be the middle ofthat line, as Army has allowed 
nearly 200 yards a game on the ground, while only giving 
up 122 yards via the pass. 
Meanwhile, the Irish defense has risen to the occasion 
in the last two outings, allowing only a touchdown and a 
field goal against Colorado and South Carolina. Middle 
linebacker Tony Furjanic paces the defensive unit with 
see ARMY, page 11 
The Army Game: 
ND owes a lot to 

Cadets for rich history 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
For the sixth straight week. the Notre Dame football learn will be facing a team that is trying to regain nationwide respect. 
Despite struggling itselffor the past couple ofyears. a victory over any Notre Dame football team is regarded by any rebuilding football team as a step in the right direc­tion. 
A victory over Notre I?amc represents not only the defeat ofa nationally-renownt:d institution. but also the defeat ofits legends and !orcs-Rockne, The Four Horse­man, The "Gippcr." 
There is probably no team in the nation that would like to defeat the legend and lore of Notre Dame more than the Army. That's because no team is more responsible for helping create such legend and lore for Notre Dame than the Army teams of the past. 
It was 70 years ago that Notre Dame first met Army. The Cadet football team then, and up until World War II, was regarded as, not only the "Beast ofThe East," but also as one ofthe great powerhouse football teams in the na­tion. 
Meanwhile, the Notre Dame football program in I9I3 consisted ofsome very obscure talent. The teams ofthe previous two years had gone undefeated, but victories over St. Viator, Morris Harvey, Ohio Northern, and Wabash were not exactly wins that gained nationwide respect. In order to help make a name for the small Cath­olic Midwestern School, Head Coach jesse Harper scheduled Army as the fourth game for the 19I3 season. 
Just before the players departed for summer vacation that year, quarterback Gus Dorais and wide receiver Knute Rockne were given a football by Harper and wc;re told to throw it around in their leisure time. A rule change that would become effective that fall had removed all restrictions on the length of a forward pass (still regarded as a very radical concept in football). Dorais and Rockne prm:eedcd to practice all summtTat a beach resort in Cedar Point. Ohio. 
see HISTORY, page 10 




ByED~S{y 
,\jwrls lf'riler 
Mike (;oJic ha' been a part of Notre Dwnt·liJOthall 
longer than hh junior ra 1king would seem to indicatt·, 
Some may a'k how thh i,• po,,ihle, hut those who are at 
all Luniliar with the lamb\' namt· know very clearly why 
this is tht' CISl'. 
t )Jdcst brotht-r Bob\\ as a member of the lrhh foot­
b,lll 'quad Irom I'P'i 10 llJ~H. during which time hh 
play t'\Tntually earned Ilim unanimous all-America 
recognition as a lim·hac .;n during his senior year. 
And brother<;reg, as< nior this year, is also a member 
of the ti>Otball team. Ik is an offensive tackle. 
Ilaving bel'!I exposed to Notre Dame football for so 
long. it'' no wonder that c;olic. like his hrothers, also 
cho,t· to he a a part ol tl e program, and he explains his 
feelings \'l'f\' dearly.,, II ad tome to this place so many 
t tnll"s when Bobby wa' h :rc I saw tht· people I saw the 
'' h11k atmo.sphere of th< campus and of the football 
program and Isaid to nty ,dfthat it was great ant d that I 
wanted to he a part of it.' says the management major 
from \\'illowid.. Ohio ":,o when Coach Faust called. I 
anTptnl right away. and just told all the other colleges 
that I had t·ommittt·d." 
When it t·amt· to making tht· final decision, some may 
think that what intluencnl the younger Golic's decision 
to comt· to Notrt· Dame was the fact that he had an Ali­
Aml'fican brother alrl'ady graduate, and another 
brother currently enrollt:tl. But he ensurt:s that tht: 
dt·dsion was ldt t:ntirdy with him. "Wht:n rt:cruiting 
started, Bobhy came up o mt: and said, 'Don't think that 
you have to go to Notn: Dame hecause I went there or 
bt'l.'ause (;reg's tht:rt: n1 w. You have an opportunity to 
go to a lot ofdifft:rt:tlol p· aces so you should look 
around."' 
Since coming to Notr_. Dam<:, c;oJic has steadily im­. provnl and has seen int reasingly more playing time. 
Serving mostly as a tack e and mt·mber of the punt 
return squad his freshm 111 year. Golic playt·d in all but 
tlw Michigan gamt·. II is longest appt·arance of the 
season ctme against 1\li;~mi when he playt·d for devt:n 
minutt·s. During that tin t' he was creditt:d with sevt:"n 
tackks, three of which \'.'tTl' unassisted. 
In I1lHl, (;olic played in all dt:vt·n games while st·rv­
ing as backup to Kevin (.ritl1th at the end posttion. lie 
did, howt·vt-r, earn a Maningassignmcnt against Arizona 
wht·n (;riffith was hurt, 1s wdl as one versus Air Force 
liJIIowing Mike Gann·~ ~nee surgery. In that game, ht: 
started at flip tackk. 

Golic secured his starting position for this season with an impressive spring performance that was high­lighted by the Defensive MVP award in tht: Blut:-Gold game. 
So far this st·ason (;olic has heen a stt:adily improving playl'f, and head ddcnsive line coach Greg Blache is wdl aware of his an:omplishmc:nts. "It's a ert:dit to Mike that he is bettn each time he comes out," Blache says. "To see him get hetter each day is what b most pleasing to me. He is maturing into the position and each week you see Mikt: involved in more and more big plays and becoming more ofa force in our defense. The more experience he gains, the more it helps him." 
This season Golic is taking up for the highly talented (;ritl1th. and Blache t:mphasizes that t:xperience is a key ingredient to filling such a role. "You havt: to r<:member that Kevin Griffith was a fifth-year player," says Blache. "Mike is just a junior and as a coach I can't emphasize enough the importanct: ofexperience. You can't go to the bookstore and buy it. You just have to go out and earn it. and I think that Mike is earning his stript:s through <:xperience. Getting ht:tter each week is asign of a good playt:r." 
After five games, Golic has accumulatt:d .30 tackles which places him third on tht: team hehind linebackers Tony Furjanic and Mike Kovaleski. Nine ofhis stops have hcen hehind the line accounting for 27 yards in losses. In this category, he leads the team. In last Satur­day's game against South Carolina, Golic led the team with eleven tackles. 
Getting ready for this season, Golic set what he con­sidered to be a necessary goal for himself. "I had to get stronger," he says. "In high school I didn't lift weights early enough and it showed when I came here. It really showed freshman year and even sophomore year, so for this season I worked out really hard with Greg and Boh­hy. Now I fed a lot stronger. It's helped on the field too, in that hdort: I had to use more finesse with players, wht:reas now I am able to take tht:m on more physical­ly." 
The importanct: ofbdngphysical is crucial to heing a good playn and Blache admires Golic's desire to make himsdf more physical. "When Mike realized he had to hccome a physical playt:r to he successful on this level, he went and worked hard in the weight room and im­proved his strength as well as mental toughness," says Blache. "The difference between Mike Golic today and last year is that he has become a physical, intimidating player." Being 6-5 and 250 pounds also must be looked at as somewhat ofan asset. 
Living up to a reputation is often ditfacult, not only to do, hut to deal with as well. Golic has had to play under tht: dose scrutiny of many observ<:rs sine<: the great career of his brother Boh, yet he feds no pressure. "I nt:ver looked at it as having to live up to a reputation," he says. "I knew Bohby cam<: here and did a great job. My whole family told me that people are going to tell you that you havt· some hig shoes to fill, but I just don't look at it that way. I just look at it that I'm going to com<: in and play Mike Golic's way offoothall. Things Bobby 
did, Iwould set as goals for mysdf. Because he achieved so much, it's something to shoot for, but as far as think­ing that I have to be as good as him or I fail -I don't 
agree with that at all." 
The Golics art: a dose family and this is something that Mike is v<:ry proud of. "Just us(brothers) alone, we arc very. dose. We go out a lot together in the summer. We work out together and we run together," he says. "My father even drills us in the off-season, evt:n Bohby, and they aren't easy workouts either. My father played a year at Indiana, in the Marines, and about sevt·n years professionally in Canada so he knows how to work us hard. My mother, she provides support. She's bt·t·n through it so long, she knows how to handk things and what to say. They both come to every home game, and if the away game is dose, they go to it too. Sometimes they'll even go right from here to the stadium in Cleveland ifBobhy has a game with the Browns. They really enjoy it alL Without their help and support we couldn't have achieved anything we have." 
In addition.to football, Golic is also a heavyweight wrestler and he feels that this helps him get ready for football. "Wrestling helps quickness, strength and leverage," he says. "All of these are very important for football so I think the two tie together very welL" 
Just as with football, older brother Boh is a big help with Mike's wrestling as welL The two train together and, "Bob provides stiffcompetition." 
For the time being, however, it is foothall season and Golie's services are needed as a defensive end. And with six games still to play, there are many chances for him to become <:ven better. When Golie looks at the remaining season, his goal is not far reaching. "I just hope to im­prove every game, play as hard as I can and be able to look in the mirror after the game and say that I played as well as I could." 
lfhoth Golic and his teammates continue to improve as they have over the last several weeks, there should be many satisfied reflections in the locker room mirrors. 

Mike 
Irish defe1 

continued from page 9 

That fall, 18 Notre Dame players with a total of 14 
cleats traveled from South Bend to Buffalo by train before 
heading to West Point. Many wore their jerseys on the 
ride in ordt:r to save luggage space, and each man carried 
his own equipment. No pre-game steak dinners were 
provided, either. The team had to stick with sandwiches 
provided hy the school refectory for the trip. 
"There was no pampering in those days," recalled 
Rocknt:. "We wanted none ofit." 

Despite entering the game with a 3-0 mark, the rag-tag 
Notre Dame outfit was rated as a heavy underdog against 
the classy Cadet team which had a player named Dwight 
Eisenhower as a reserve. 

The "Air Power" attack ofNotre Dame was unveiled to 
the nation for the first time by Harper. Dorais completed 
14 of his 17 passes that afternoon for 243 yards as the 
befuddled Army team simply did not know how to adjust 
to the sophisticated new weaponry. Nothing was more 
stunning than a 40-yard bomb that was thrown to Rockne 
for one ofthe touchdowns in the 35-13 Notre Dame rout. 
"Everybody seemed astonished," wrote Rockne later 
on. "There had heen no hurdling, no tackling, no plung­
ing, no crushing offiber and sinew. Just a long distance 
touchdown by rapid transit. At the moment when I 
touched the ball, life for me was complete." 
Meanwhile, theNew York Times reported the next day 
that, "The Westerners flashed the most sensational foot­
hall ever seen in the East." 

Notre Dame now had a name. Thus, this victory over 
the Army is regarded as the single most important tri­
umph in Notre Dame football history. The Irish went on 
to post a final mark of 7-0 that season. 
Eleven years later, Rockne guided Notre Dame to its 
first national championship. The victory that propelled 
Notre Dame to its heights once again came against a 
powerful Army team in the season's third game. 
Before the 1.3-7 triumph against the Cadets, Notre 
Dame's starting backfield was known as one of the 
lightest in college football history (the heaviest of the 
group weighed 162 pounds). By the next morning, they 
became the most famous backfield in college football his­
tory. 

America woke up the next day to read Grantland Rice's story ofthe game which was to become the grandd~ddy ofall sports literature. 
"Outltned against a blue-gray Octobersky, the FourHorseman rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as Famine, Pestilence, Destruction, and Death. These are on(y aliases. Their real names are Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley, and Layden. They formed the crest ofthe South Bend cyclone before which anotherfighting Armyfoot­ball team wassweptovertheprecipiceat thePolo Grounds yesterday afternoon, as 55,000 spec­tatorspeereddown on the bewilderingpanorama spread on the green plain below. A cyclone can't he snared. It may be surrounded, but somewhere it breaks through to keep going When the cyclone starts from South Bend, where the candle ltghts stillgleam through the Indiana sycamores, those in the way musttake to storm cellars at top speed. Yesterday the cyclone struck again, as Notre Dame beat the Army, 13 to 7, with a set ofback­field stars that ripped and crashed through a strong Army defense with more speed andpower than the warring cadets could meet." 
The granddaddy ofall sports stories in America followed four years later -cnce again against Army. 

In 1928, adversity hit Notre Dame football for the first time in quite a while. The Irish lost four of their nine games that year. The feeling was that Rockne had let tht: game pass him by. Calls were made for him to step down. The team, meanwhile, was decimated with injuries. Ful­lback Freddie Collins would have to play the upcoming game against the highly-ranked Army team with his arm in a cast. It was the moment Rockne had been waiting for for eight years. 
Eight years earlier, his greatest player ever made a spe· cia! request on his deathbed. 
"Sometime, Rock, when the team is up against it, when things are going wrong and the breaks 



-



• • • History 
are beating the boys -tell them to go in there 
with all they've got and winjust onefor the Gip­
per.ldon't know u;here I'll be then, Rock. ButI'll 
know about it, and/'II be happy." 
just before the down-trodden Irish team was ready to take the field at Yankee Stadium, Rockne sat the team down, silently retold the story, paused for effect, and then stated, "This is the game." 
"There was no one in the room that wasn't crying, including Rockne and me," recalled line coach, Ed Healy. "There was a moment ofsilence, and then all ofa sudden those players ran out of the dressing room and almost tore the hines off the door. They were all ready to kill someone." 
The Irish didn't exactly kill Army, but their 12-6 vic­tory stunned the nation. The lore ofNotre Dame con­tinued, and the "Subway Alumni" following dramatically increased as the story of the "Gipper" captured many hearts in the nation. 
One more game against Army ranks as one ofthe greatest and most intense in Notre Dame history. 
In 1943, Notre Dame won the national championship. Due to the war in Europe, though, Head Coach Frank Leahy and his most talented players were shipped across the ocean to partake in more serious battles. Thus, the Army Cadets in 1944 and 1945, led by Heisman Trophy backfield mates "Doc" Blanchard and Glenn Davis, owned college football as they won back-to-back national championships. Included in those years were the two greatest defeats ever administered on Notre Dame teams 
-59-0 in 1944 and 48-0 in 1945. 
In 1946, Leahy, along with some of the greatest talent 
in Notre Dame history, returned to the campus. The Irish 
and the Cadets, the two top teams in the nation had a 
showdown for the national championship that year 
before 74,121 fans at Yankee Stadium. It is estimated that 
over five million dollars was wagered on this game as the 
gambling element in collegiate sports came into full 
force. 
The war cry for the Irish players was "Fifty-nine and 
forty eight, this is the year we retaliate." The student 
body got into the act, too. They sent daily hate mail to 
Army Head Coach Earl Blaik that was signed "SPATNC (Society for the Prevention ofArmy's Third National Championship)." 
The game ended in a 0-0 tie and is most remembered for a single tackle. Ironically, for all his tremendous ex­ploits as a Heisman Trophy winning quarterback the next year,johnny Lujack is most remembered for the tackle he made as a member ofthe defensive backfield. The great Blanchard had broken into the open field on the one potential game-breaking play in this contest. Nothing was between him after his 20-yard gain but 3 7 yards ofgreen grass and Lujack. Lujack proceeded to pin Blanchard toward the sideline t s before decking him. 
Lujack is also remebered for his involvement in this game over a couple of missed tackles. 
Realizing that justone mistake could cost the team the game, an intense Lujack was incensed on the bench when a teammate missed a tackle. 
"Oh, Bob Livingstone," Lujack hollered. "You son ofa 
A stunned Leahy turned around and exploded with a livid rage against Lujack 
"Another sacrilegious outburst like that, jonathan Lujack, and you will be disassociated with our fine Cath­olic university." 
On the next play, Livingstone missed another tackle. Leahy turned back to the bench again. "Lads, jonathan Lujack was right about Robert Livingstone." 
Despite the tie, Notre Dame was awarded the national 
championship when the season ended. It was the first of 
three national championships that Notre Dame won be­
tween 1946 and 1949. 

The last eight games against the Cadets -dating back 
to 1965 -have hardly been as exciting or intense as the 
ones in the past. Notre Dame has outscored the Army in 
those games by a 312-16 margin. 
The roles of the two teams from 70 years ago will be switched tomorrow. It would seem that for all Army has done to help make so much of Notre Dame's lore and legend possible, Notre Dame would help make it possible for Army to rebuild their own great tradition. 
Don't bet on it, though. 
• • .Army 

continued from page 9 
68 tackles, while teammate Mike Kovaleski follows with 
35 stops. While the linebackers have been rolling up the 
stats, the line has been drawing rave reviews for its play 
the last two weeks. After being condemned earlier in the 
season for a lack ofa pass rush, the front four has been 
harassing opposing quarterbacks in recent games, bring­
ing plaudits from Faust. "Defensively, we are definitely 
getting more pressure from our front line, but we're also 
starting to play well as a unit," comments Faust. 
Overall, Faust will be looking for the Irish to maintain the intensity that has manifested itself in the last two weeks. "The one thing we've done each ofthe last two weeks is dominate and take control of the game," notes the third-year Irish coach. "I would just like to continue that consistency we've shown the last two weeks." 
Ifthe Irish maintain the consistency and intensity Faust speaks of, it should be a delightful afternoon in the Meadowlands. And if the Irish do win "on the road again,'' look for Faust, the Irish, and their fans to change the sad tunes ofearly in the season to much more beautiful music. 


Your TV Guide 
When the Irish line up on offense 
NOTRE DAME OFFENSE ARMY DEFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT LE 89 Larry Carroll 6-3 225 Sr. SE 24 Joe Howard 5-9 171 91 Brad Allen 6-3 215 Jr. 
3 Alonzo Jefferson 5-9 172 LT 93 Jim Jennings 6-3 220 Jr. QT 75 Larry Williams 6-6 284 72 Bnan Gibbons 6-3 228 Sr. 65 Greg Golic 6-7 263 NG 77 Mike Staver 6-2 235 Jr. QG 53 Tom Doerger 6-5 272 46 Rob Ulses 6-2 212 Jr. 54 Tim Scannell 6-4 270 RT 92 Mike Newsome 6-3 230 Jr. c 63 Mike Kelley 6-5 269 95 Mike Sears 6-3 220 Jr. 62 Ron Plantz 6-4 266 RE 82 Glenn Veevaert 6-0 200 Sr. SG 79 Nell Maune 6-5 278 94 Eddie Gamble 6-1 210 Sr. 52 Shawn Heffern 6-5 254 LB 55 Jim Gentile 6-1 220 Jr. ST· 76 Mike Perrino 6-5 271 57 Pat Scanlan 6-1 220 Sr. 74 Mike Shiner 6-8 269 LB 54 John Roney 6-1 222 Jr. TE 82 Mark Bavaro 6-4 246 68 Jim Mitroka 6-2 230 Sr. 85 Brian Behmer 6·6 218 CB 18 Eric Griffin 5-11 180 Jr. QB 7 Steve Beuerleln 6-3 195 37 Kermit McKelvy 5-9 180 Jr. 5 131air Kiet 6-1 206 55 28 Herb Aten 5-11 185 Sr. FB 32 Chris Smith 6-2 231 19 Bob Silver 5-9 185 Jr. 35 Mark Brooks 6-3 228 FS 25 Gary Bastin 5-11 183 Sr. TB 20 Allen Pinkett 5-9 184 11 Nate Sassaman 5-11 180 Jr. 
33 Hiawatha Fran-CB 21 Dee Bryant 5-10 180 Jr. cisco 5-10 1851 22 Matt Buckner 5-9 170 So. FL 6 Milt Jackson 6-0 181 3 Joe Sartiano 6-2 205 Sr.
p 17 Alvin Miller 6-4 220 K 4 Mike Johnston 5-11 185 8 John Carney 5-10 170 
When the Cadets line up on offense 
ARMY OFFENSE 

NOTRE DAME DEFENSE POS NO PLAYER HT WT CL 
E 55 MlkeGollc 6-5 251 SE 4 Scott Spellmon 6-1 175 So. 56 Robert Banks 6-5 235 81 DaveWoolf 6·2 175 Sr. 
FT 78 MlkeGann 6-5 256 LT 70 Dave Woolfolk 6-3 248 Jr. 96 Wally Kleine 6-8 272 74 Shamus Hanlon 6·3 247 Sr. NT 38 Jon Au1ry 6-2 246 LG 66 Ron Reusch 6-2 248 Sr. 94 Mike Griffin 6-4 235 60 Dean CT 71 Eric Dorsey 6-5 269 Chamberlain 6-0 242 Jr. 92 Greg Dingens 6-5 257 
c 79 Don Smith 6-4 250 So. LB 37 Rick Naylor 6-3 227 59 Scott Sullivan 6-4 225 Jr. 43 Rick DiBernardo 6-3 228 ·RG 65 Church Mat-
LB 58 Tony Furjanic 6-2 231 thews 6-1 254 Jr. 

87 Joe Bars 6-5 237 63 Pete Edmonds 6-3 235 Jr. 
LB 49 Mike Kovaleski 6-2 210 RT 62 Karl Heineman 6-3 255 Jr. 47 Tom Murphy 6-2 219 78 Bill Kime 6-5 265 Jr. 
CB 12 Troy Wilson 5-11 170 TE 90 Mark Triplett 6-3 212 Sr. 25 Marv Spence 5-11 180 85 Scott Wuestner 6-2 215 Sr. 
CB 40 Pat Ballage 6-2 197 QB 7 RobHealy 6-2 175 So. 48 John Mosley 6-1 248 9 Bill Turner 6-5 192 So. 
55 27 Joe Johnson 6-2 198 FB 32 Art Zarone 6-0 210 Sr. 34 Daane Spiel­38 Dave Pratt 6-0 205 So. 
maker 6-1 203 HB 23 Elton Akins 5-10 185 Sr. 
FS 9 Chris Brown 6-1 196 45 Kevin McKelvy 5-10 180 So. 23 Steve Lawrence 6-0 180 FL 84 Jarvis Hot-
p 5 BlalrKiel 6-1 206 llngsworth 5-11 180 Jr. 1 0 Dave Meadows 5-11 180 83 MattOiiver 5-11 185 Sr. K 1 Craig Stopa 6-2 185 So. 
',, T < ~' 


ARMY October 14, 1983 ·page i2 







1·HE GAME THE STATISTICS 
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Army Cadets 

RECEIVING G NO YOS AVG TO LGTEAM STATISTICS 
SITE: Giants Stadium, East Rutherford, N.J. (76,891) TIME: 1 p.m. EST; Saturday, Oct. 1S, 1983 TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2159 1414 Howard 5 16 218 13.6 1 58 Total Plays 381 335 Pinkett 5 12 124 103 1 59
'IV-RADIO: WNDU-TV(Ch. 16) 

Yards per Play 5.7 4.2 Bavaro 5 8 100 12.5 2 21
JeffJeffers and Jack Nolan 


Yards per Game 431.8 282.8 Smith 5 8 93 11.6 1 26 PENAL TIES· YARDS 40-387 28·273 Jackson 5 6 138 23.0 0 61 FUMBLES-LOST 8·3 16-6 Bell 3 6 65 10.8 1 23 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 109 85 Favorite 4 4 61 15.3 0 18
Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 

By Rushing 63 34 Francisco 5 3 36 12.0 0 15
Harry Kalas and George Connor 

By Passing 40 42 Jefferson 5 2 32 16.0 0 16 9 a.m. Sunday WNDU-TV ( Ch. 16) By Penalty 6 9 M1ller 5 25 25.0 0 25 THIRD DOWNS-CONV 34-80 26-73 Williams 4 6 6.0 0 6 Percentage .425 .356 POSSESSION TIME 157:52 142 08 NOTRE DAME 5 67 898 13.4 6 61
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network 

Minutes per Game 31.50 28.42 OPPONENTS 5 81 862 10.6 5 81 Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
WNDU-AM 1500 

Gerry Faust PASSING G NO co PCT INT YDS TO SERIES: Notre Dame 32, Army 8, ties 4 
Notre Dame 

LAST MEETING: October 18, 1980 Bauerlein 4 52 32 .615 0 454 2 
DEFENSE TMTL·YDS PBU FR BK
Kiel 5 70 35 .500 5 444 4
Notre Dame 30, Army 3 
Grooms 1 2 0 .000 0 0 0 

Fur1anic 68 1-1 2 0 0
K. Smith 1 2 0 .000 0 0 0 RANKINGS: Notre Dame unranked, Army unranked 35 3 0 0
Kovaleski 2-4 Golic 30 9·27 1 0
TICKETS: Game is nearly sold out NO 5 125 67 .536 5 898 6 

Naylor 27 0·0 0 0
OPP 5 152 81 533 8 862 5 

Ball age 24 1·3 4 0 0 Johnson 19 3·11 2 2 0 Toran 19 0·0 0 0 0 Gann 17 0·0 0 0 0 RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG Brown 16 0·0 3 0 0

THI: SCHEDULE 

Autry 15 2·9 0 1 0 ARMY 
5 95 523 5.5 3 53 Griffin 12 1·1 0 0 0 5 42 259 6.2 1 37 Marshall 10 0-0 1 1 0
NOTRI:DAME SEPT. 10 lost to Colgate, I S-13 

3 33 163 4.9 4 50 D1ngens 10 3-9 1 0 0
SEPT. 10 def. Pur Jue, 52-6 SEPT. 1 7 lost to Louisville, 31·7 

4 24 142 5.9 0 33 Murphy 8 0·0 0 0 0 SEPT. 171ost to l\ISU, 28-23 SEPT. 24 def Dartmouth, 13·12 5 16 99 6.2 1 31 DIBernardo 7 1·1 0 0 0 SEPT. 24 lost to Miami (Fla.), 20-0 OCT. 1 lost to Harvard, 24-21 1 2 33 16.5 0 25 Lawrence 6 0·0 2 1 0 1 4 33 8.2 0 34 Kleine 5 1·3 0 0 0
OCT. 1 def. Colorado, 27-3 OCT. 8 def Rutgers, 20-12 

2 4 13 3.2 0 9 Dorsey 4 0-0 1 0 0
OCT. 8 def. S.Carolina, 30-6 OCT. IS Notre Dame at 

5 7 10 1.4 1 10 Banks 3 1·8 0 0 0 OCT. 1 S Army at \1eadowlands Meadowlands 5 2 10 5.0 0 6 McCabe 3 0-0 0 0 0 OCT. 22 SOUTHIRN CAL OCT. 22 LEHIGH 
1 2 9 4.5 0 9 Butler 3 0·0 0 0 0 5 14 -14 ·1.0 0 7 Spielmaker 3 0·0 0 0 0
OCT. 29NAVY OCT. 29 at Air Force 

4 1-1 -19 ·1.7 0 8 Mosley 2 0·0 0 0 0
NOV. S PITISBURGH NOV. 5 BOSTON COLLEGE 

Wilson 2 0-0 0 0 0 NOV. 12 at Penn 5tate NOV. 12 at Pittsburgh 5 256 1261 4.9 10 53 Corsaro 1 0·0 0 0 0 NOV. 19 AIR FOI~CE NOV. 2S Navy at Rose Bowl 5 183 552 3.0 3 34 Whrte 1 1·2 0 0 0 





PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The O':Jserver sports staff, a random student pic <ed at the discretion of the sports editor, .md some well-known figure in the Notr~ Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football gam~. Records are com­piled as to how eact person does against the spread. In oth ~r words, it is not enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person nust pick a winner given the underdog p)ints. 
Auburn over GEOR<;IA TECH by 14 
Penn State over SYR\CUSE by 13 
WEST VIRGINIA ovt r Virginia Tech by 13 
Ohio State over ii.LI 'o/OIS by 4 
ALABAMA over Tennessee by I 3 
INDIANA over Mich1gan State by I. S 
Miami over MISSISSIPPI STATE by 12 
Nebraska over MISS• )URI by 20 
Oklahoma over OKlAHOMA STATE by 8 
Arizona Stare over S•JUTHERN CAL by I. '5 
Texas over ARKANS\S by 9.'5 
Georgia over VAND ~RBILT by 12.'5 
Notre Dame over Army by 18 


CHEG 
446 

Louie Somogyi MikeSulllvan Will Hare Jane Healey David Dziedzic Dr. Tom Kelly "CHEG's" SporuWriter Sporu Editor SporuWriter Asst. Sports Editor Editor-in-Chief Guesl Cetebrily Random Students 41-17 39-19 l5.J3 35-33 31-37 JO..JI 35-33 .MJ .574 .515 .515 .456 .441 .515 
Eagles Jackets Eagles Eagles Eagles Jackets Eagles Uons Orangemen Uons Orangemen Uons Orangemen Uons Mountaineers Hokies Hokies Mountaineers Hokies Hokies Mountaineers 
Illini Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Illini Buckeyes Volunteers Tide Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers Tide Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans Hoosiers Spartans Hurricanes Bulldogs Hurricanes Bulldogs Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Tigers Tigers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Tigers Tigers Cornhuskers 
Cowboys Cowboys Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Devils Devils Devils Devils Devils Devils Trojans Razorbacks Razor backs Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns Bulldogs Commooores Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 


TheObserver Friday, October 14, 1983-page 13 
Colorado residents fear accident, want plutonium plant removed 
Associated Press ,.pational, the company that runs medicine at the University of Rocky Flats for the government, say Colorado Medical School. they're running a safe operation. In addition, Cobb reported, the 
GOLDEN, Colo. -Time was Safety improvements have been percentages of239 and 240 found in I when the wind-blasted stretch of made, they say, and health and the bodies were similar to those I Colorado prairie called Rocky Flats security measures are strict. found in the soil at Rocky Flats. ~I was as desolate as its name sounded. But there are worries: at least one When the AEC announced its Then, in the late 1940s, surveyors death was traced to Rocky Flats, can­plans to build the Rocky Flats plant from the Atomic Energy Commis­cer rates are higher near the plant, 16 miles northwest of Denver in sion came to build a nuclear and plutonium was discovered, 1951, its 1,000 jobs were greeted as weapons plant. through autopsies, in the bodies of good news by some. Others were 
Today, 30 years since it began nearby residents in recent years. uneasy. operations, many Denver residents Jerry Langheim, a spokesman for Then-Gov. Dan Thornton worried fear Rocky Flats as the bomb factory Rockwell International, said the that it would be as much a bomb tar­in the spreading city's backyard. plutonium levels determined by get as a place to make them. "I More than I00,000 people live with­autopsies were the same as those wouldn't be against moving the state in 10 miles ofthe plant. found in bodies around the world capital to Gunnison," a city 145 
The plant is no stranger to because of radioactive fallout from miles away in the mountains, demonstrations, and organizers ex­nuclear bomb tests. Thornton said. pect thousands of anti-war and anti­The bodies of the Coloradans, Initially, not much was known of nuclear activists to join hands and however, showed a higher con­the plant, except that parts for encircle the 6,500-acre plant centration of "weapons-grade" nuclear weapons were made using grounds Oct. 15. It is tobe the first of plutonium 239, the particular some radioactive materials. anti-arms demonstrations scheduled isotope used in 93 percent of the The first word that plutonium, a in the nation in coming weeks. work at Rocky Flats, than ofisotope man-made element known to cause
Convention planning 

The plant makes plutonium trig­240, which is more commonly cancer in test animals, was used at 
Maurice johnson, the superintendent of the U.S. Senate Press gers for nuclear bombs, hence the found in bomb fallout, according to Rocky Flats came in 1957, when Photographers Gallery looks over a scale model of the speaker's fear of radioactive contamination. a 1975-82 federal-state study by Dr. plant officials revealed that two platform for the 1984 Republican Convention. Federal officials and Rockwell Inter-John Cobb, professor of preventive workers had been injured in an ex­

BeforeWe PutYou In Ch~e OfTheWorld's 
Most Sophisticated Nuclear Equipment, 
We PutYouThroughTheWorld's Most Sophisticated Nudear Training. 
r 
It takes more than 16 that most of the men months of intensive who operate the training to become a reac~ors in plj_yate __.___. fully qualified officer in industry started in the the Nuclear Navy. You Nuclear Navy.) begin with four months It takes more time of leadership training. and more effort to Then as a Navy officer become an officer in the you get a full year of Nuclear Navy. But the graduate-level training rewards are greater, too. unavailable anywhere else at any price. The rewards can begin as early as 
Navy training is based on more than your junior year in college. Qualify, and 1900 reactor-years of experience. Right the Navy will pay you approximately now the Navy operates over half the $1000/month while you finish school. nuclear reactors in America. And the After four years, with regular Navy's nuclear equipment is the most promotions and salary increases, you can sophisticated in the world. That's why be earning as much as $40,500. That's on your Navy training is and must be the top of a benefits package that includes most sophisticated in the world. medical and dental care, and 30 days' 
As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, vacation earned every year. More you have decision-making authority responsibility, more money, more future. immediately. You get important manage­So, if you're majoring in math, ment responsibility engineering or the 
fast. Because in the r ;;;V~~;;U;;T~----; ;;;1 physical sciences, and 
INFORMATION CENTER 
I

Navy, as your knowl­I P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 you want to know more 
edge grows, so does I 0 Please send me more information about I about a future in becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy. (0Nl
your responsibility. nuclear power, fill in 
I 1
Nam~-=~---c~-.~~---.~----­
Your training and IPlease Print) I the coupon.
First Last1 Address Apt. 11--­
experience place you Today's Nuclear 
Zip._

among the country's 1 City Sta I Navy is an opportunity
I Age tCollege/University I
most qualified profes­like no other in the 
:j:Year in College tGP
sionals. (No surprise world.
I•Major/Minor________________________ 1 
Phone Number

I I 
I 
fAres CodeI Best Time to Cal1 This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to 
I 

furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi-
J 
tions for which you qualiry.



L ----------­
NavyOfficersGetResponsibilityFast. 
.... ':'l ~-:. ··­
plosion in a "glove box" where 
workers handled radioactive 
materials through lead-shielded 
gloves. 
From its opening until l974, 
when Dow Chemical Co. was run­
ning the plant for a succession of 
federal agencies, there were several 
accidents in which workers were 
contaminated with plutonium. 
There also were more than 200 fires, many caused by plutonium's propensity to smolder like charcoal in an oxygen atmosphere. Rockwell officials say the spontaneous fires don't occur now,-due to special precautions. The U.S. Department of Energy now oversees the plant. 
Two ofthe 200 fires were serious 
-one in 1957 that received little 
public attention, and another in 
1969. Dr. CarlJohnson, who has had 
several studies published on Rocky 
Flats's effects on people, said smoke 
from the 1957 fire spewed 
radioactive contamination for ·several miles. 
The 1969 fire received more 
publicity and heightened public 
concern about Rocky Flats. In recent 
years even the physicians in the 
Colorado Medical Society have 
urged that the plant be closed or rel­
ocated and its site decontaminated. An official DOE study found that such a pr.:>ject would take up to 19 years and cost about $1.9 billion. 
Other problems the plant has en­countered included the release of tritium, a radioactive hydrogen isotope, into a reservoir that supplied water to a nearby city; the autopsy reports showing plutonium in lungs, and Johnson's studies showing higher rates of cancer ­especially types of cancer linked with radiation -in persons near the plant than in people far from it. 

Open 5prn, Tues.-Sat. 7pm, Sunday 





Sh<)wcase 
Friday, October 14, 1983 -page 14 
Letters to a lonely God 

Oneofakind 
by R·~v. Robert Griffin 
__...::..
______ 
jeatures columnist 
B 
arstool analysis makes me in­stantly nervous. Barstc ol analysis Is the same as armchair analysis, except that it's d<·ne in a drinking establishment im tead of the pastor's study, or any other place amateurs practice psychiatry with­out a license. Analysis is t me of the games people play to manipulate other's egos. A professional will lis­ten to you talk twice a we ~k for a year, before making a suggestion or coming to a conclusion. 1 he amateur Imagines he's go1 your number from seeing you !;tlr a Man­hattan. 
A lady I've just met say! that she can guess from the way I t: Ilk that I'm vulnerable. That's about ~ s per­ceptive as telling a worn pair of shoes that they have hole' in them. "Vulnerable" is a tired ol(l word that describes most ofus; ever. Hitler was a little vulnerable. Only a few street­wise hustlers are tough at the way through. It's embarrassin!. w be told to your face that you're vulnerable when It means: "I see tim ugh all your defenses, and bem·ath the blus­ter and macho, you're re~liy a creampuff." The soul is a~ private as acne's scars. I thank stran ~ers to keep their hands off thost scars. Sightseers shouldn't volunteer to ex­plore the soul, looking fo · the light and darkness. 
The lady says: "You're .t priest who loves God very much." 
"There's no need to dhcuss the matter," I reply, what COl tid I say without sounding like a ~honey? St. Joan ofArc's judges asked her Ifshe was In the state ofgrace.'·IfI be so, I pray God keep me so,"sht replied."lf I be not so, I pray God ma'c me so."I struggle with faith like C\ ery other Catholic. I try to love Gcd, but it's 
Movies 

'Beyond the Limit:' 
beyond repair 
by Stephen Thomas 
J.~atures staff writer 
O
--------------~ n~: must wonder wht·ther the marquee at the Foru n Cinema here in South Bend shoui.J read Richard Gere instl·ad ofBryond The Limit. For most ofBeyona The Limit Is just that: Rkhard Gere. That is, Richard Gere trying to ac ., trying to develop an accent and trying to make something out of this film. 
A potentially good story line is ruined by a cast 111-cquiptJCd to develop it. Limit takes place in Northern Argentina. Gen· plays a doctor whose father Is be lng held as a political prisoner in Uruguay. In Argentina, Gere become! involved with rebels who are planning to 
capture the United Stat·s ,~mbas­sador when he visits In town. He­cause Gere is having an a! fair with a British Consul's wife, he i; able to obtain information concerning the car route ofthe Ambassador. When the kidnapping takes place. however, the Consul is m istakedly captured in place oftht.· Ambas­sador. Because ofGere·s involve­ment with the Consul'~ ""ife, the police suspect him as part ofthe kidnapping group. Their lead even­tually leads to a surprise t·nding, which, ofcourse, I canno: reveal. 
Beyond Tht• Limit, at first, is interesting. An interestm!. story line, what appears to be a good cast, and McCartney get the film off to a good 
start. Eventually, though, the film 
starts to slow down. We realize that 
the ~haracters will never develop from a one-dimensional level and the pace becomes more and more annoying. The best one can do at this point is just patiently wait for the film to end. 
Much ofthe film's failure is due to 
character development. Richard 
Gere makes no attempt to become 
anything more than Richard Gere. 
There is no real evidence ofan 
emotoional bond between Gere and 
his father. Gere speaks ofa love and a 
concern, but we feel nothing. Mic­
hael Caine is also a victim offaulty 
character development. The love 
that he expresses for his wife is artifi­
cial. It also is hard to believe that 
Caine feels sympathy and admira­
tion for Gere at the end ofthe film, 
especially, after he finds out Gere 
has had an affitir with his wife. 
The writers of this film are also at fault. There's not much room for characterization within the script, and, at times, the dialogue is non­sensical. For example, Caine tells Gere that his potentially pregnant wife is not on the pill becuse she's one ofthoseSpanish Catholics. I of· ten found myselfaskingwhy some of the dialogue was in the film at all. 
hard to love someone you can't put your arms around. I believe I am the beneficiary ofgraces that come from heaven. It would be embarrassing to say how much I enjoy them. 
Analysis used to be an indoor sport that students played in the dorms on Saturday nights in winter. It has varsity status In pseudo­intellectual sets addicted to watch­ing the Winds ofWar amd the Thornbirds on television. Gloria, at a cookout, says to Ralph: "You've got sensitive hands. Those hands could be at home on a brain surgeon or a violinist." Actually, Ralph's mitts arc large and uncoordinated, like the ones In the drawings ofMickey Mouse. Ralph becomes conscious of his hands as though he were posing for Michelangelo's statue ofDavid. He never doubts the sincerity of the compliment, which was invented 
when Gloria noticed Ralph picking his nose. 
I have a great deal oftrouble being the me that God intended. I'm not sure how I will turn out. Cardinal Cooke died last week in New York; from the courageous way he ac­
cepted suffering and death, he 
became a hero to the world. Ernest Hemingway, who taught us to ad­mire grace under pressure, died of a self-inflicted wound. You can feel sorry for Hemingway, but it took a 
hero to teach us how to die. Nobody can write my press notice, praising my worth, until, like a runner, I have finished the course. Until I have crossed the finish line, I am full of surprises. 
You can write yourselfoff as below or above average. Surveys measure you in relation to the repair. It would have been helpful for the directors and producers to have thought a little more hefore they made this film. The actors could have made some effort toward character development. A little more money in the film's budget could have made the film more presentable. The film gets by on just the necessary amount ofset and the characters don't seem to have more than one costume. Finally, the film's 
writers could have thought ofsome meaningful dialogue. 
Then again, with an ad that boasts Richard Gere, Michal Caine and implies tempting sex scenes, who needs quality? The ad seems to be doing a good job on its own In sell­ing this film. I think that's just what 
the nr.<VInr,.,..., un<;;II'U<OI.J. 
mainstream. National tests warn of the risks your group takes with tooth decay. The total information evaluates you as a statistic. But nobody except God can define potential. Holden Caufield in 
Catcher in the Rye tries to think of somethinggood to say about a kid doesn't like. Finally, he decides, the kid was probably a. terrific whistler. The ordinaryguy strugglesall his life to get outfrom under classifications. Uke no one else he ever heard of, he's got this wonderful talent: he's a terrific whistler. On the day the earth is nuked, he will whistle the Star Spangled Banner, and save the world's morale. On the last night of civilization, he will have this gift of music that saves the survivors from the despair ofcommitting suicide. 
· I used to collect unicorns, when they were rare and hard to find. I could go for a couple ofyears before adding a new beast to the glass menagerie. Suddenly, the unicorn poplulation exploded. Now, uni­corns are everywhere, and I am em­barrassed. I'm looking for a nearly 
extinct species to identify with. Wild geese flying lonely against the sky would be a better symbol of Christ. I've lost respect for the sillly, simpering creatures that roam in herds, suffocating from the Hallmark cuteness that makes one inter­changeable with the other, their 
reticence and shyness gone like a lost innocence. 
The lady who finds me vulnerable praises me for honesty. She says: "I know priests who wouldn't say merde Ifthey had· a mouthful." Amateur analysis lacks the poetry of reassurance. Being one ofa kind is too much magic for the amateurs to deal with. They couldn't leave uni­corns well enough alone. I don'l 'eel complimented when one ofthem tells me the way I am honest. 
•THEATRE 
This weekend Is your last chance to see Thornton Wilder's hilarious comedy "The Skin of Our Teeth," produced by the Notre Dame/St. Mary's Theatre. Curtain time is 8 p.m., tonight and Satur· day. Tickets are available by calling 284-4626. 
The South Bend Civic Theatre presents "Private Lives," an "English drawing room" comedy by Noel Coward, tonight and tomorrow night, and continuing every Thursday through Saturday to October 29 at 8:30 in the Firehouse Theatre. For reservations call 233-0683. 
The Theatre Company of Indiana University at South Bend opens Its season with Aristophanes' comedy "Lysistrata," tonight, tomor­row night, and next weekend at 8:15 p.m. The play was written in about 412 B.C. and revolves around a group ofwomen's decision to protest the war between Athens and Sparta by declaring a sex strike. Passion and humor reign as the warring husbands and protesting wives from opposing sides unite in their common goals. The perfor­mance will be in the Northside Hall Main Theatre on the IUSB campus. 
•MUSIC 

A Faculy Piano Trio in recital, sponsored by the Notre Dame Department of Music, will perform works by Haydn, Turina, and Johannes Brahms in the Annenburg Auditorium on Sunday at 4 p.m. 
The trio features Karen Buranskas on the cello, William Cerny on the piano and Laura Klugherz on the violin. The concert is free and open to the public. 
•ART 
An art conference on the art of Raphael will be held today in the Annenburg, jointly sponsored by the College ofArts and Letters, the Office ofthe Provost, the Department ofArt, Art History and Design, and the Snite Museum of Art. The principal speakers are Professor Ric~ard E. Spear ofOberlin College, from 9:15 to 10:1 5, and Profes­sor Anthony F.C. Wallace ofthe University ofPennsylvania from 2 to 3 p.m. A general session will be held from 10:30 to 12:30. 
The Student Drawings Traveling Exhibition of the National As· sociation ofSchools ofArt and Design has Its last run this weekend in the galleries ofthe Moreau Fine Arts Building. 

•MASS The Sunday Masses in Sacred Heart Church will have the following celebrants: 
Fr. Robert Griffin, at 5: 1 5 p.m. (Saturday night vigil) 
Fr. Nicholas A yo, at 9 a.m. 
Fr. Danieljenky, at 10:30 
Fr. Steven Gibson, at 12:15 
•MOVIES 
Steven Spielburg's electrifying tale of the supernatural, "Poltergeist," will be the Engineering Auditorium feature this weekend, sponsored by the Microbiology Club. The movie portrays a middle class American family and the nightmare that begins when their quiet, suburban world is transformed into one ofstark terror hy a violent, volatile phenomenon known as Poltergeist. Showtime is at 7, 9: I 5 and II p.m. and admission is $1. 
"Fata Morgana," a 1970 German film with English suhtitlcs, is playing tonight for the Friday night film series. A bizarre ami visually splendid film, "Fata" turns a placid and lyrical Sahara desert landscape image into a visual-aural circus, with abandoned World War II debris and German tourists mining an indigenous population for ethnic information. The movie is in the Annenburg at 7:30 
"Citizen Kane," the tale of the rise and fall ofa newspaper mogul. 
starring Orsen Welles and Agnes Morrehead, is the Monday night 
film feature to be shown in the Annenburg at 7:30 and 9 p.m. 
SOLA is sponsoring "Todos Santos Cuchumatan," a Guatemalan 
film at 7 and 9:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns, also on 
Monday. Discussions will follow the 7 p.m.showlng. 
•NAZZ 
Tonight Catherine McCabe and Robbie Frcebaim will perform at 
the Nazz beginning at 9, with an open stage to follow. On Saturday 
there will be an all 

excellent music provide( by Paul Beyond The Limit is beyond "They're here," the supernatural forces of"Poltergeist," in the Engineering Auditorium this weekend. 


• -' '""' ; • F • ...,.. '-. ·.:~ 








Sports Briefs 
The WOmen's SOCCer team of Notre Dame will play Marquett: at ';:30 p.m. today on Cartier Field. Sunday, the women will square off against Northwestern at 11 a.m. on Alumni field. -Tht· Observer 
Anyone interested in puntingfor the varsity 
foot hall team ~ hould come to a tryout Sunday, October 16 at 3 p.m. on Cartier Fidd. You must presently be a junior, sophomore, or freshman to bt eligibk. -The Observer 
Stepan court reservations are now being ac­
cepted. Any club, organization. or hall wishing court time should compkte an application in the Student Activities Office in Lafortune by Tuesday. (_ ·ctober 18. Reservations are for the period from Oc­tober 11 to April I. Basketball and volleyball are sports which will receive prime consideration. -The Obsen1er 
Friday, October 14, 1983-page 16 

The Notre Dame Boxing Club will hold its annual novice tournament next week. The semi-finals will be fought on Tuesday, and the winners ofTuesday's fights will meet Thursday in the finals. This tournament will feature 45 novice boxers who have participated in the six-week novice program. The tournament will be held in the boxing room of the ACC. Fights on both Tuesday 
and Thursday will begin at 4:00 p.m. 
-The Obsen1er 

The fourth annual running of The Human Race is set for I 0 a.m. tomorrow. The I 0-kilometer footrace and fun run are sponsored by the Broadway Christian Parish United Met­hodist Church and the South Bend YMCA. The race is a fund-raising event for both organizations. Registration forms for the race can be obtained at Broadway Christian Parish, the YMCA, the Athlete's Foot in l'niversity Park Mall, and the Athletic Annex stores in Scottsdale Mall and the University Commons. -The Observer 
Upsets make football race interestilig 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
Two major upsets occurred this week in women's interhall football as Lewis defeated Breen-Phillips 14­8 and Pasquerilla West beat Farley 
8-0. 
It was the first time in the history of women's interhall football that Lewis had ever defeated B.P. 
"It was an important win ti>r us be­
cause it helped u~ huild our con­
fidence and we learned it is never 
too late to recover from mistakes," 
said Lewis team captainjaneen Olds. 
Sunday's victory tied Lewis and 
Pasquerilla East each at 3-1 for the 
best records in the league. 
"It shows that no one can 
dominate this league," said Olds. 
B.P. team captain Lisa Ehrhardt said that the contest with Lewis was close and B.P.'s defense did not play as well as it had in past games. She said that although Sunday's loss put the team in a bad position for a play· off spot, she does not expect the team to drop another game this 
season. The game gives B.P. a -~-2 record as it enters its game against 
P.W. 
next week. 

P.W. 
athletic director Mary Jane Lorton said Tuesday's victory over Farley gives the team "more momentum." and will givt: the team a better chance ofentering the play­offs in November. 


Lorton credited the upset to 
defense and an improving offense. 
"We scored early and the defense 
pulled it out for us," she said. 
P.W.'s momentum began with a 
14-0 victory over Lyons on Sunday, 
and Tuesday's game gave P.W. a 2-2 
record. 
Illness has affected the Farley team this week and team captain Sharon Zoehlcr said many team members have missed practice be­
cause they were sick. "The lack of practice weakens the team," she explained. 
Zoehlcr said Farley, 2-2, plans to use more imagination and variety in its plays going into its game with Badin last night. She expected to beat Badin because the last two losses "make us mad and we're hungry for a win." 
In action this week, Lyons won its 
tlrst game of the season against 
Badin. 6-0. Lyons' team captain. 
Martha Burns. attributed the victory 
to the deknsive line and to t~:am 
spirit. 
"We really wanted it basically," 
she explained. 
The 1--l Lyons team will play P.E. 
next week and Burns expects her 
team to give P.E... a good run for the 
money." 
Although the Badin team is disap­pointed with its loss to Lyons, team captain Sally Esposito docs not ex­pect the team to lose any morale. 
"We don't think we're any worse," Esposito commented. 
Esposto attributed the loss to "an offt night" and said the offensive line is improving. The 0-3 squad played Farley last night and Esposito hoped the team would hold its own against the former league champions. 
On Tuesday, P.E. improved its record to 3-1 after defeating Walsh, 6-0. 
"The game gave us confidence," said P.E. captain Kim Zerr, and she is confident her team will be included in the playoffs this season. 
Next week P.E. will be facing its most challenging games of the season. Zerr said the squad will con­tinue to "work on the basics" in preparation for the week. 
Walsh was disappointed with the outcome ofTuesday's game and cap­tain Mary Langer believed "there were a lot of unnecessary personal fouls." She described the contest as "emotional'' and attributed Walsh's loss to penalties. 

HOW WOULD YOU LIKE TO HAVE THESE GIUYS HANGING AROUND YOUR ROOM? 


a-t~IJ3 ~m.tl/tflllM 
ACTUAL SIZE 29" x 22" 

ORilER YOUR LITE ALL·STARS POSTER TODAY!
---·----------------,
Enclosed is my check or money order payable to "1983 Lite All-Stars Poster" for: 
r 1983 LITE ----------­
I 

ALL-STARS POSTER OFFER 
-=-,..,-,--Poster(s)@ $1.00 each =$.___ 
(Quantify)
ONLY $100 
=$.___
Total Enclosed 

To order y•)ur 1983 Lite All-Stars Poster, please fill in the following information. Please moil my order to: 
NAME 
ADDRESS 
(No PO Boxes) 

CITY ______________.,TATE ___ZIP _____ 
Mail this coupon with a check or money order for the total amount to: 
1983 uta All-stars Poster P.O. Box 61325 D/FW Airport, TX 75261 

Please allow six to eight weeks for shipment. Offer good only in U.S.A. Void where prot" ibited by law. No product purchase necessary. Price includes postage and handlilg charges. No cash, credit cards. stamps, or C.O.D.'s accepted. Offer expires December 31. 1983. 
Miller Brewing Co.. Milwaukee. WI
410725 ~
L ----------------·---_,_----------..J 

The Observer Friday, October 14, 1983-page 17 
Johnson 
. -LWftf1\IBMMtH(1~ . 
CU/tVHIJNIIC!llfi{)N 
o~r.u~~-------~
~~lf~ll?~IIIU~~~~~ IfilL~\ ~1~11:2111~~ 
a 
October 14 • Fata Morgana (1 970) Germany Directed by werner Herzog. In German with English subtitles. color. 78 
' ~~~og turns a placid and lyical Sahara desert landscape •mage for the -.._-. travel-folder trade 1nto a spac1ous ghd1ng v•sual-aural circus A catalogue 
~ of dead colon•ahsm 1n the Sahara abandoned Y..' W II d3bns, and Ger­CCf~~n~~ll~~ man tounsts m1mng the ·~d•genous population for ethn•c 1nformat1on ~ make th1s aMe of Herzog s most bizarre and v1sually splendid films 
1JniVfR511Y Of nC>lR!' 1:>1'\!TlE . Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum ADMISSION$2•00 
'----...lr~u ~ 11 f3lti l~ 
_7_:ao PM -­
.. 
Located ofUhe Ifazz in the basem~nt of LaFortune Hours: 12:30·&:80 

~ 
A 

P ARMERLEE DE'TECI'IVE AGENCY MR. C. T. PARMERLEE 
Pnuate DetPctiue 
1 15S. !:.cutt Street. Apt A South Bend, IN 46601 
(219) 288·6621 
URBAN~ 

A REMINDER ! C To participate 
Z 

. -during Christmas break -G) 
m 
• 

you rrust submit yotr • application this week 
•
•
•

OCT.10-14 •
•
• 

klformation and Applications: -Center for Social Concerns -Campus Ministry Offices -Your Hall Urban Pkmge Representative · 

natned to leadMets 
Associated Press 
PHILADELIPHIA -Dave Johnson 
was named manager of the New 
York Mets yesterday, becoming the 
fourth man in three years to take on 
the job of restoring the perennial 
National League East cellar-dwellers 
to the heights they scaled a decade 
ago. 
The former Gold Glove second baseman foe four major league teams, who guided two Mets' minor league teams to championships in two years in their system, signed a two-year contract at undisclosed terms, said Mets General Manager Frank Cashen. 
"I want to thank Mr. Cashen for 
having the intelligence to hire me. I 
really felt I was qualified to manage 
in the big league three years ago," 
joked Johnson, who played a minor 
role in Mets' history when as a player 
with Baltimore, he made the final 
out in New York's triumph over the 
Orioles in the 1969 World Series. 
"I feel fortunate to come to a city 
that can make a normal human being 
and a less-than-average ballplayer a 
superst.ar" 


The Observer Friday, October 14, 1983-page 18 
• • . Trial 
Attention Volunteers 
continuedfrom p.1ge 20 

America team put out. In addition, am going to mal<.e mistakes, so long 
ND-SMC CouncU 

end is a receivt·r md must run pass he was voted lllinois Player of the as they are aggressive mistal<.es," routc:s. This re~:; uires speed and Year by the Chicago Sun-Times. notes Furjanic. "The fans can 
for the Retarded 

agility. "Playing a lot last year has helped criticize me all they want. I'll listen 
(Logan)

''The strongest Jart of my game is a lot because l got the feel for to what they say, but I won't let it my blocking." says Bavaro, playing in a game," Furjanic com­bother me." 
Dance Fri., Oct. 14 7:00-10:00 

"whereas, I need to work on my ments. "It made me less nervous Tal<.ing the stand as a character 
Zoo Trip Sat., Oct. 15 9:00-1:00 

speed of getting { ff the ball on pass about starting this year." witness is linebacker coach George 
-lunch included 

plays." Like Bavaro at tight end, Furjanic Kelly. Kelly is seen as an expert in 
While Bavaro is a sophomore felt some pressure at the start of the the field, a'> he is in his I 5th year as eligibility wise, he is in his third year season. Notre Dame linebacker coach. academkally. He wffered a hand in­"I felt a little pressure when I "I think Tony is a heck ofa player," jury early last seas•m and missed the heard Mike Larkin was injured be­Kelly remarks. "He is improving majority of the ;cason. Although cause l figured on looking to him as a from week to week." 


Ir----------------,

Bavaro could not play, which leader," says Furjanic. "Now I have Kelly continues, "Tony impressed I enabled him to ret eive an extra year to he more of a leader and set the the veteran players lao;t spring ofeligibility, he w IS able to learn by example." through his play and has earned I I watching Tony Ht. nter. At the start of the season, the their resptTt. He has tal<.en up the 
"Tony Hunter t as helped me the coaches were faced with starting leadership role, not because he calls Student Union 
I I 
most to improve just by observing two inexperienced players due to the signals, but because of how he him last year," t·onments Bavaro. Larkin's injury. plays the game." 
1 PRINTIN'G SERVICE 1 

During the Miar 1i game, several of But Furjanic notes, "The coaches All of the evidence has been Miami's player~ t ·it:d to intimidate were very patient and worked with presented. The jury has gone to I New. Replacing campus Press I the Irish by talkonl: a lot. ln response, us. They did not rush us into any­deliberate. The courtroom is quiet 
I Bring camera-ready poster art I

the Irish tried tort main cool and not thing they did not think we were as they await the jury's decision. respond. ready for." A decision has been reached. The "We tried to juH ignore them and Middle linebacker also requires a jury decides unanimously that the I to S.U. RecordStore I play," notes Bavar•>. "but that did not very versatile player. On a sweep, he two players have been the top-notch 
I ~
for your posters and table tents

work. So now we try to be more in­must force the runner outside. On a players--they were purported to be. tense and get u' for the games run up the middle, he is responsible They note that while it is too early to more.., for filling any gaps the linemen miss. pass a final decision, they recom­I I 
This intensitJ was demonstrated On a pass play, he must drop back on mend a stiff inter~entence. at Colorado. After the officials called coverage or rush depending on the For Mark Bavaro·, they recom­
I I 
a Bavaro recepti• m down on the call. mend he be sentenced to continue four-yard line, wh :n it appeared to "lam starting to play better now," the tight end tradition of Notre 



-----------------· 
be a touchdown, Bavaro showed says Bavaro. "In the beginning ofthe Dame for the remainder of this year some emotion on the sideline. year I thought l played poorly, but and the next two years. He must 
After the call an J being jeered by now I feel more comfortable and it is continue to improve to new levels. fans, he kk·ked what he thought to beginning to show." He must continue to block in a su­be an empty ke bl cket. The bucket, Like Bavaro, Furjanic has received perb manner, in addition to catching however, containt d a large amount a lot of help from another player. In numerous passes. of water and sub ;equently soal<.ed this case it is Mike Larkin. For Tony Furjanic, they recom­the boisterous fan~. "I have turned·.to Mike for a lot of mend he be sentenced to continue 
<.:oming forth a:; a character wit­answers on what to do on certain the middle linebacker tradition. This ness is receiver t s c-oach Mike Stock. plays and how l should act on the includes maldng numerous tackles Stock says, ··Mark is a young man field," says Furjanic. and beinga leader ofthe team for the 
with great potential for the future." As a young player, one is likely to duration of his stay at Notre Dame. 
He has perform :d well so far and make a lot of mistal<.es. And wh• :1 They recommend the sentences as ht· learns to read defensive mistakes occur the fan'> are quick to begin tomorrow at Giants Stadium at coverages bettt-r, he will improve react. I p.m. E.S.T. • greatly." "The coaches accept the fact that I 
l'urjanic is ~u nmoned to the stand. In addition to ! tarting at middle linebacker, Furjanic is also on the 

• • • Soccer 
punt team. 


As a freshman I urjanic played in  contmuedjrom page 20  special about  a  team  that  can  be  
every game as a ~pt cialty team mem­ Luetkehans does  not  think that  motivated the way this team is at this  
ber. He was on the kickoff team and  last weekend's defeat has adversely  point in the season. The real test of  
the punt team. He had 19 tackles last  affected  Notre  Dame.  In  fact,  he  this motivation will come tonight, as  
year.  thinks the loss has inspired the team  the Irish attempt to get back on the  
As a high schoo  senior, Furjanic  to work harder this week.  winning track.  
was  named  to  nost  every  all-1  There has got  to  be something  


BANKING•••NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. M!ARY'S 



$39.50 

1st So Jrce Bank's new office, located at St. Mary's Colle~ge in 
Hagg::u College Center, offers free checking to St. Ma1ry's and 
Notre Dame studentsand faculty. . 
Soft 

In addition, our newest office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours -Monday through Friday 
Contacts 

Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m. -3:30 p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
With this coupon save on soft contact lenses. This special price includes a travel chem-care kit. Toric, extended wear 

JC)in Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service! 
and other special lenses not included. Coupon and student/ faculty identification must be presented at time of order. 

· 1 · ""·'SO'Ulh Bend: Scottsdale Mall 291-2222
~.source 
''"""""""~ 
Elkhart: Concord Mall875-7472 f~

-.aank: "'' 
I Open All Day saturday and Sunday Mall Hours ffi
Member F.D.I.C. 

I ~
PROFESSIONAL EYE EXAMINATION AVAILABLE BY I OPTOMETRIST WITH OFFICES ON PREMISES ~ ..._~~-------~--~--~-----------~.......-.-.--..,.,---M:~~~~·'!ti·:_t.t'.~.:'_~.·~ffir~;y~~~~;~~~~~-~..~,~:'!':'~~,~·~~~·~~~ 



Weekend 
Friday, October 14, 1983-page 19 

Bloom County 

Fate 

MAll, WE fzlfTA !Uf' •tr 1/ttH£ THIS wa~. Iff T1K utsr nlf£ WL lL ~1/CIC l'tllv f'N£M. 


Mellish 
()fMJ .MEl, IT !OOlS AS IF SOML 5TUMIIT\ AI£ fltJ TM£~ WAl To Tlf SOuTH OIIAO TD PlAy SOM~ fOOT'UIL. 


JlP.LOVfJ I! HA! 

I fJXJK GRfifT!! 5UM... VIBKANr... 


THE Y'u MIINJHI> r.f 'lAS' WITM fUll ltiiNUI'I' AHI> SI.JtiPIG MOIIII&. 
DON'T Ytu EVf.N CAU ~ 




The Daily Crossword 

©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 10/14/83 All Rights Reserved 
IN FACT, I PIPN'T 7VRN 51X >€AR5 OW 
1H£ OTHE.R f?lff, .. 

Photius 
Y£P. TJHS u. BC THt" END 
IF A (fottJfT mf1Jmol(. 

Dave&Dave 

ACROSS 27 Stone­1 Welghtof cutting Asia tools 
5 Largeboat 32 Sidekick 10 Grange 33 Thorax 14 Stadium In membrane 
Atlanta 35-Pa1.1l0 15 "-a Gre­36 Hall of cian Urn" Fame's 16 Rangeof Graham and the USSR Willis 
17 Hall of 39 Ms. Claire Fame's 40 Rajahs' McEihenny wives 
20 Pork 41 Alliance 
sausage letters 21 Winnows 42 Football 22 Chemical strategies 
ending 44 Lllyof 23 Heart France 24 Red planet 45 Cheer 
Thursday's Solution 

10/14/83 


Campus 
Friday, Oct 14 
•12:15 
p.m. -Govenunent Colloquium, "Apartheid Under Pressure," Prof Peter Walshe, 309 Memorial library 

•2 
p.m. -Conference , On Raphael Lecture, "Paradigms and Revolutions in the Arts," Prot: An­thony F. C. Wallace, Annenbt:rg Auditiorium 

•3:30 
p.m. -Theology Colloquium, "Human Nature, Potency and the Incarnation," Prot: Alfred Freddoso, library Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "Arrangements," Prof Peter Orlik, 226 CCMB 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -FUm, "Poltergeist," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Microbiol­ogyClub, Sl 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night FUm Series, "Fata Morgana," AnnenbergAuditorium 

•8 
p.m.-Soccer, ND Men vs Marquette, Cartier Field 

•9 
p.m. -Benefit Dance for Logan Center, SPIZES, Chautauqua, Sponsored by Notre Dame Progressive Musik Club, U 


Saturday, Oct. 15 
•8 a.m. -Test, Graduate Record Examination, Engineering Auditorium 
•i p.m. - Foocball, ND vs. Army, East Rutherford,  
NJ.  
•8  p.m.  - Radio  Show,  "College  Football  

Scoreboard," Will Hare, WSND-AM 64 
Sunday, Oct 16 
•11 
a.m. -Mass in Spanish, Farley Hall, Rev. Don McNeil~ Sponsored by International Students and the Center for Social Concerns 

•2 
p.m. -Soccer, ND Men vs. U of Chicago, Alumni Field 

•4 
p.m. -Music Dept Concert, Faculty Piano Trio Recital, Annenberg Auditorium 

•6 
p.m. -Sophomore Class Mass, Charles Corso C.S.C., Keenan-Stanford Chapel 


Correction The campus comic strips in yesterday's ObserV-er were inadvertent~y switched. The strip concern­ing the anny ganu! was the worlz of"Fate" artist Photius. The strip dealing with Father Hesburgb's boarri address was the worlz of "Mellish" artists Dave andDave. 


Far Side 


Berke Breathed 

46 Baseball 
statistic 48 Par­51 University 

at Columbus 57 Hall of Fame's Mix 
· 59 Take on 60 Formal walk 61 Where Per· 
sepolisls 62 -Slaughter 63 Tropical 
fish 64 Courageous 
DOWN 1 Grant's­2 Eastern VIP 3 Commune 
in Sicily 
4 Fuzz 5 Petty 
officer 6 Revere 7 Soaks flax 8 USNA 
mascot 9 Stationer's 
Item: abbr. 10 Dervishes 11 Arabic 
letter 12 Carry on 13 Russian 

planes 18 Rams' dams 19 Map line 23 Arrests 
24 Children's author 25 Turn­
ear to 26 Speedup 27 Kellyand 
Hackman 28 Boorish 29 Egyptian 
dam 30 Cravings 31 Fair 32 Boricor 
carbolic 33 Soundof 
water 34 Byway 37 Verdi opera 38 Yoko­43 Gnaws away 44 Italian 
city 46 Kitchen 
gadget 47 Blacktea 48 DavisCup 
man 49 Proud 50 Japanese 
receptacle 51 Amorous 
glance 52 Jack or Tim 53 Spruce 54 Taj Mahal 
city 55 36A 56 Sea bird 58 Lunch 

<.... 


The (J~rllbomas Brown 
Susie Panllwr, shown herefollowing through on a shot, and her Notre Dame teammates will be seeing their last action ofthe fall this weekeru.' as they host the North Star Conference tournament. For more del~tis, see story at right. 
ByTIMDOYUi 
Sports Writer 

The courtroom is filled beyond its capacity of 59,07 ;. Many others arc stuck outside see <ing to buy, at any price, a ticket of admis.<;ion. Others arc glued to thdr television sets. All are awaiting whal could go down in history a<; the tria of the century. 
All rise for the honorable I.M. 
Judge. 

The trial to he heard today is that 
of two young ccliege sophomores. 
lbe charge is th.1t of purporting to 
be top-notch football players in key 
positions at the 1 Jniversity of Notre 
Dame. The suspects are tight end 
Mark Bavaro and middle linebacker 
Tony Furjanic. 

The prosecuti 1g attorney begins 
with his opening statement. 

As the 1983 lootball season ap­proaches its mid ><>int game tomor­row, it provide~. a good time to assess the progre:;s ofplayers. 
At the start of this season there were definite qut stion marks at the Notre Dame tight end and middle linebacker positi<•ns. Two relatively inexperienced players were slated to take over posi rions which in the la<;t ten years havt produced some of the more promin·~nt names in Notre Dame football hi~ tory. 
Fans recall. the names of Dave Casper, Ken Mac.\fee, Dean Maztek, and Tony Humer as the outstanding tight ends of the Ia~t decade. 
Likl·wise, the 11ames of Greg Col­lins, Marv Ru!osell, Bob Golic, Bob Crable, and Mar~ Zavagnin come to mind a<; the great middle: linebackers ofthe la~t dccadt. 
A look at the history books reveals that seven of the nine aforemen­tioned player.. v'ere all-Americans. The exceptions being Dean Maztek, who suffered a knee injury in his senior year, and Marv Russell, who had knee surgeri after starting his 
sophomore year. 

These two players here today 
arrive on the scene with relatively 
little experience and expect to fill 
the shoes vacated by the past all­
Americans. 

The defense attorney begins his 
opening statement. 

Although these players here today 
began the season with little' ex­
perience, they possessed the tools, 
such as speed, strength, skill, and 
desire, needed to achieve success. 
Bavaro, 6-4, 246-pounds, is offto a 
good start this season. In five games 
he has caught eight passes for 100 
yards and two touchdowns. While in 
high school he was a unanimous 
prep all-America choice on Parade, 
Adidas/Scholastic Coach and Coach 
& Athlete/National High School Ath­
letic Coaches Association teams. 
Furjanic, 6-2, 231-pounds, is also making a name for himself. After five games he leads the team with 68 to­tal tackles, I 9 of them solo. In addi­tion he has two interceptions, broken up two passes, caused two fumbles, and has two quarterback sacks. 
The interrogation begins with Bavaro on the stand. 
Bavaro notes, "At the beginning of the season I did not think too much about filling the shoes of past players. Rather I just went out and did what I was supposed to do." 
The position of tight end at Notre Dame is of great importance. Being in an important position means coping with the pressures that ac­company it. Bavaro's case is no ex­ception. 
"I felt pressure from the coaches because they expected me to play well and I wasn't sure how well I could play," says Bavaro. 
Bavaro adds, "I also had pressure from myself because I had worked hard and did not want to see it go down the drain in one game." 
Friday, October 14, 1983 -page 20 

ND tennis team hosts conference tournament as favorite to win NSC 
ByJANE HEALEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team will be hosting the first annual North Star Conference champion­ship tournament this weekend at the ACC. Play begins today and con­tinues tomorrow morning at 8 am. on the Courtney Courts. If there is rain, the tournament will move inside the ACC. 
According to Coach Sharon Petro, the Irish are not only the hosts ofthe championships, but the favorites, too. 
"I would expect or I would guess that we would be seeded going into the tournament," Petro said. 
Petro's assumption is based on previous competition this season. :rhc Irish demolished NSC members Butler and DePaul 9-0. 
The other members of the con­fercnce who the Irish have yet to face are Dayton, Detroit, Evansville, 
Loyola, and Xavier. 

Bavaro and Furjanic 

l~radition left in capable han€!s 
"Now that I have played a few games, I feel more comfortable." 
The position oftight end really re­quires the skills of two types of players. On a running play, he is a down lineman and must block the defensive line. This requires sizeand strength. On a pass play, the tight 
see TRIAL, page 18 

idea," she said. "You're out there on your own. It won't show who is the better team, just the better in­dividual players." 
Petro isn't putting a lot of em­phasis on the weekend, seeing that it is only the end ofthe fall season, and the Irish have an entire spring season to play -not to mention the NCAA tournament at the end of the 
year. . . 
. But, she_ can still find_ s?~e ments 
tn ~om~tmg for_the N~C t~tle. 
It will provtd~ us .~tth m(~re tournament expencnce, Petro sat~. "Since we are expected to do well, tt will put additional pressure on us. W c need all the pressure we can get 
righht now." 
Coach and players alike arc really looking forward to something other than a conference title, though. 
as~: t~~rn=~t =~~e b:h:::~~: rea y 1 or 
ships were. There will be six singles By PHIL WOLF brackets and 3 doubles groups competing in single elimination Sports Writer 
competition. Consolation rounds If th . th' h b 
. . ere JS one mg t at can c 
are scheduIed, but if ram perststs, . 
. be II d d h sa.td about the Notre Dame soccer
11

they wf_1 d cance e ue to t e team, it is that the players are in ex-lack o m oor court space. . .. 
. ·u b d . d 1cellent phystcal condtuon.
The team title wt c etermme . . 
h f h . d' .d al Smce the mtddle of August, the 
0 111

by t e s~chc~ss ht be k tvt Cu Irish have been working out togeth­
players wtt m eac rae ct. o-. 
-L' LaF b r hat er nearly everyday. Asststant Coach 
capta.tn JSa ratta _ e te~es t the flighted structure ts detnmental 
to the team effort. "It takes away from the team 
w 11 d • t • d I • h
e -con 1lOne riS d ,C M tt 

Hank Hofman has described the .. fas d . , 
team as a t, goo -runmng team, and the players have demonstrated that ability by running circles around several opponents. With almost two-thirds of the season completed, Notre Dame has shutout II teams en route to an im­pressive overall record of I 1-3. One might get the idea that it's pretty easy being an Irish soccer player right now. Wrong. Last Tuesday evening, the soccer team had a conditioning practice. They ran a lot -and they ran hard. This sort ofeffort, seen at this late time in the season, is indicative of the kind ofattitude that is prevalent on the team. Despite a disappointing 
"Our sights are set way beyond this (to the NCAA's)," LaFratta said. "It (the NSC tournamant) means something to us. We want to put the team on top of the conference in its first year, but we're looking ahead." 
Though the visions into the future are obvious, LaFratta docs not fed that the Irish are being overconfi­dent or cocky. 
. "This team gets motivated even 
' when we're playing teams we know
Iwe arc going to beat," she said. That fact can bt· verified by the spotless 9-0 record the Irish posted in dual competition this fall. 
After the NSC tournamem, the team ha~ several months off to catch up on school work and conditioning before the rigors of the spring season begin. 

arq ue e 

double-overtime loss last weekend 
to Wisconson-Milwaukee, the 
players are looking forward to this 
weekend's games with a positive 
outlook. 

The Irish will take on a very tough 
Marquette squad tonight at 8 p.m. on 
Cartier Field. Sunday, Notre Dame 
will host Chicago on Alumni Field at 
2p.m. 

Last year, the Irish shutout 
Chicago, 2-0, and grabbed a 2-1 
overtime victory at Marquette. 

The Notre Dame players had a 
chance to watch Marquette down 
Minnesota, 2-0, la<;t week. In that 
game, they were able to see that 
Marquette's defense is not as strong 
as it was last year, but that their mid­
field is very good. 

Everyone expects that tonight's game will be as close as those in past years against Marquette. 
According to one of the Irish cap­tains, fullback Mark Luetkehans, "Marquette is always an exciting game for the fans. We always seem to have close games against them." 
see SOCCER, page 18 


What's up? 
l-lere's what your teams are doing this weekend 
TODAY 

soccer vs. Marquette 8p.m. Cartier Field 
N D volleyball at Michigan St. Invitational 
SMCtennis at NAIA Districts 
TOMORROW 
football vs. Army at Meadowlands 1 p.m. 
ND tennis North Star Conference Tournament Courtney Courts 
cross country at Indiana Big State Meet 
SMC volleyball at Marion 
SUNDAY 
soccer vs. Chicago 2p.m. Alumni Field 
men's basketball walk-on tryouts ?p.m. ACC Main Arena 





