Lebanon -page 6 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------==-­

VOL XVIII, NO. 30 the independent ~tudcnt 11<."\\ ~papt:r -.t·n ing notn dame ;llld -.aint man·._ THURSDAY,OCTOBER 6, 1983 
Minors arrested at Nickle's appear before St.Joe judge 
By TOM SHAUGHNESSY 
Hunter. nmnsel for the Notrl" 
"'fk kt'ls that tht· students of 

News Staff 
Dame students. said a dt"fendant on a Notrt" I>amt· and Saint Mary"s do not "minor entt·ring a tavern" chargt.· is n.-alize tht· seriousnt·ss of going out
Ten Saint Mary's students and five 
usually allowed to entrr a pka of to tht.· hars ... hl:' st·enwd to ht· skk

Notre Dame students went befon: 
"guilty," and the srntl:'ncing is with­and tired of pt.·oplc appearing in
St. joseph County judge Hosinski 
held for six months. Iftht: ddendant front of him so oftt"n for this kind of

Tuesday morning on a charge of 
stays out of further troubk during thing." said ont.· Saint Mary's stmknt.
"minors entering a tavern." The. I '5 
this period, the prosecutor movt:s 
· Judgr l-losinski refust"d to t·om­

students were arrested in a raid of 
for dismissal ofthe chargt:s. 
ment on the matter.

Nickie's bar at~ 928 N. Eddy Sept. I0. 
According to Hunter, "the judgr

The Notre Dame students, Referring to the Nickit.-'s incident,
did not serm interested in any com­
represented by Rich Hunter, en­Dean of Students James Rol"mt·r
promise with the prosecuter."tered pleas of"not guilty." They will stated that "when studcnts arc
Hosinski "would not toleratl" les­

return to court on Nov. 3. caught in violation of criminal
ser treatment for students," he said. 
statutt·s. they must go through thc

The IO Saint Mary's students ap­The judge suggested that steps ht· criminal justice systrm -getting
peared without counsel and pleaded taken to inform Notre Dame and hood, getting an attorney, et Cl"tera.
guilty. Each was fined $2'5 plus Saint Mary's students as to what Thc llnivrrsity does not attt:mpt to
courts costs and sentenced to one procedures will be taken if they are intervt.·ne on behalfoftht: studcnts."
day in jail. Though each jail sentence arrested on such charges, said Hun­was suspended, the charge will ter. According to Rot·nwr. "the Uni­remain on each student's record as a "He basically kcturt:d us," said versity considrrs this ( kgal Class B misdemeanor. one of those involved. Several stu­process) sufficit:nt sanction for tht: 
judge Hosinski also gave the stu­dents said that Judge Hosinski asked studcnt and will not cxercist· om­dents a stiffwarning. saying if any of them what the legal drinking age current jurisdiction," Rot·mer said. them appeared before him again, was in their homr state, and if it was Neitht.·r Saint Mary's nor Notre "they would spend some lime in under 2I, were they using that as an 
Dame has taken any administratin· jail," according to one defendant. excuSt"" to drink in South Bend? 
action against tht: studt:nts. 

Walesa awarded Nobel Peace Prize 
Associated Press port ofthe labor movement. blm:, was tounded in August 1980, Polish authorities did not say aftrr a wave ofstrikes and unrest, but 
OSLO, Norway -Lech Walesa, whether they would permit Walcsa was suspended at the imposition of leader of Poland's outlawed to leave Poland to accrpt the award, martial law Dec. I 3, I 98 I, and latt:-r Solidarity labor movement, was and the labor leader said he was outlawed. awarded the Nobel Peace Prize yes­considering sending a rrlative in his A solidarity underground n·mains 

.....--.....:.~_ 

terday for his fight on behalf of the place. Soviet dissident Andrei Sak­and, despite frequent governnu·nt "unconquered longing" ofall people harov, the only other Peace Prize efforts to minimize Walesa's impor­for peace and freedom. laureate from the East bloc, did not tance and discredit him, ht: remains 
juniorjulie Berg peniSes the record and tape selection at yesterday's Walesa quickly said he would give accept his award brcause he fearrd a ht:ro of thl:' Polish proplc and a sale in Saint Mary's Shaheen Bookstore. Berg decided on Dionne War­the approximately $190,000 award he would not be allowed to return rallying point for the movement. wick's Greatest Hits, but not before browsing the classical selections. to Poland's Roman Catholic Church, home. His wife, Ydena Bonner, at­The Noht:l committee said it 
which has been outspoken in its sup-tended on his behalf. "n:gards Walesa as an exponent of the active longing for pt:at."l" and 
Record-breaking sale 
In Warsaw, deputy government frct:dom which t:xist, in spitc of unt:­

spokesman Andrzej Konopacki qual n>nditions, unconquered in all
GOP senators: Watt 'must go' 
charged that the award was political­the propks of the world.
ly motivated and said the Peace "In an age wht:'n detente and thc
Associated Press of any kind ... Ifthere was any bigotry or malice in the Prize "used to be a meaningful peaceful resolution of contlkts arc
man, prejudice ofany kind, he wo11ldn't be a pan ohhe award. Now it is devalued." WASHINGTON -Senate Republicans served blunt administration." Walesa, who wa..'> interned by the more necessary than ever bct(,rr, notice on yesterday that Interior Secretary james Watt As for the Republican caucus, Sen. Bob Dole ofKansas Communist government for I I tech Waksa's contribution is both an an
must go or face a strong vote of no confidence. But said "Some very strong feelings were expresed. Therc:'s months during martial law, was inspiration and exampk," it President Reagan said Watt "has done a fine job," and a a very, very strong feeling that Secretary Watt should harassed afterward while trying to said. "stupid remark" didn't merit his removal. leave." return to his job as a shipyard The committee said Walt-sa's work was "charat.:t~·Tized by a deter­
Senate GOP leaders said a stormy, closed-door And even Watt's must outspoken defender oflate, As­electrician, and has recently bern caucus on Tuesday had demonstrated that support for sistant Republican Leader Ted Stevens of Alaska, the object ofa news media campaign mination to solve his nmntry's Watt had waned far beyond previous estimates, and a problems through nt·gotiation and
conceded the interior secretary was in deep trouble. to discredit him. consensus emerged that the secretary should resign for "There is an increasing number of members of the cooperation without resorting to 
The Norwegian Nobel Committee

the good ofthe party. Minority Democrats, in their own majority who are of the opinion that a change will ul­violence." 
said Walesa had made his contribu­
His nmtrihution ··is ofvital impor­

caucus days earlier, unanimously endorsed a call for timately have to be made," Stevens said. 
tion "with considerable personal
Watt's removal. tance in the widcr t:ampaign to
Republicans had a wide ranging discussion of Wan at sacrifice to ensure the workers' right st·cure the universal frt"edom to ,,r­
Reagan, whose aides had pronounced the case closed the caucus, and almost all agret:d, according to par­
to establish their own organization." 
ganize -a human right as dd1ned

over Watt la..'it week, told The Associated Press board of ticipants, that Watt should resign. The Solidarity union, the only in­by tht:' United.Nations," thl" commit­
directors that the secretary "has done a fine job." 
"It became clear that the Watt thing had hurt 
drpendent labor union in the Soviet
The president said Watt made "a stupid remark" Republicans and had hurt the Reagan administration tee said. when he referred to an advisory panel on coal leasing as and was not just going to go away," said one Senate "a black ... a woman, twoJews and a cripple" two weeks Republican, who asked not to be identified. ago. Even Republicans who hadn't taken a position on But Reagan told the AP directors that he agreed with Watt before the session spoke out against him in scath­House Democratic Leader Jim Wright of Texas on the ing terms, participants said. issue. "He didn't think it was an impeachable offense, As a result, the White House ha.."i been notifit:d by and I don't either," said Reagan. Republican leaders that they would be unable to block a 
"I recognize that a mistake wa..'i made," the president "sense of the Senate" resolution calling for Watt's dis­said. "He (Watt) recognizes that, too. What he was missal, sources said. The resolutation was drafted by trying to say was not based on any malice, any prejudice Democratic Leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia. 
SMC celebrates Founders' Day 
By EDWARD NOLAN "The Walk through Time," a grap­Uniform Review. Teamsoffourfrom News Staff hic illustration on the history of the each hall will compete for a pizza College, also will be presented in the pany in the Scavenger Hunt. Alumnae from the Saint Mary's Haggar College Center Parlor Mon­Students will dress in fashions 1905-1935 classes will be on day. 
reflecting student garb from the late campus Tuesday to celebrate the There will be a candlelight dinner 1800's to the present in the Uniform College's I39th Founders' Day, for the alumnae on Tuesday in 
Review. according to Mary Sue Dunn, coor­LeMans. A I 5-minute slide presenta­The programming committee also dinator for Founders' Day festivities, tion on the history of the College 
discussed plans for another Five Hall who spoke at the programming will be presented at 7 p.m. After the Dance. The success ofthe first dance committee meeting last night. slideshow, Sister Maria McDermott which was held last month initiated 
The Obst-rver/lboma.~ Brown

Students and faculty members will lead a discussion on the Col­the discussion, according to Dunn. 
will begin celebrations Monday -lege's history. Chairful workers
The dance is tentatively each hall will sponsor a birthday Other activities for the day in­Notre Dame employees unload newplushfurniture outside LaFortune
scheduled for the weekend follow~ 

(.'ake party. 
dude a Scavenger Hunt, and ing Christmas break. .\tude,t -cimi~r, y~sterda:v 


r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---­

The Observer 

Thomas Becker, dir~ctor of d~velopmcnt at Saint Mary's, has appointed Lisa Russell O'Shea as assistant dir~ctor of development. She began her duties October 3. Currently a Ph.D. candidate at the University ofChicago, O'Shea most recently worked as r~search assistant in the major gifts division in the development oftke of the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business. A 
19...,9 magna cum laude graduate of Williams College in 
Wiliamstown. Mass.. O'Shea is a native of Middletown, Conn. -The Ohsen,er 
The Review ofPolitics has r~cieved the Harold). 
Pt:tnson award for the:-bt:sl article on American military history published last year. The article, "Power and Diplomacy: The 1920s Rt·appraist:d." was written hy John Braeman. professor of history at tht· l 'niversity of Nebraska at Lin<.:oln, and appeared in theJuly 19H2 issue of The Ret•ieu· ofPolitics, a s<.:holarly journal published here. Tht· award is given by the Eastern National Park and Monument As­sociation in memory ofthe late Harold Peterson, chiefcurator ofthe 
National Park Service who also served on the Eastern National board. Award rn:ipil"nts re<:eive 51 .000. -The Ohsen,er 
About 100 protesters, including six students in a ...mall boat. demonstratnl nt·ar tht· port ofSasebo,japan, yestt:rday as tilt' l .S. airnaft carrier Carl Vinson left after a four-day visit, police ~;ud There were no casualties or arrests. t:our prott·st<:rs were ar­rntcd in Sa...cho Saturday when tht· 91.000-ton carrit:r arrivt:d. At that time. 26 small boats carrying at least II H protesters tried to pn:vcnt the ship from entering the port. while 2,6';0 people staged l.lt-monstrations on land. Protestt·rs numht:rt:d over H.OOO Sunday and daimt·d tht· ship carried nuckar weapons, in violation ofjapan's principles banning the possession. production or introduction of nuclear arms. Tht· l'.S. Navy n:fust·s to comment on its nuclear \\Tapons dt·ployment. -AP 
Greenpeace environmental activists 
demonstrated yesterday at a fac·tory in Lin;. Austria. which used to producT dioxin. hut angry workt:rs brokt: up tht: protest as the dt·monstrator.., tried to block the plant's gates with moc·k drums of the dc·adly chemical waste. The demonstrators wert: protesting the impc·nding return of barrels of dioxin that had hn·n shipped abroad for disposal hut wt·rc being st·nt hack to the plant because the dis­posal contractor backe<.l out. About ';(} angry workers deart:d the gatt· area at the Chc:mil' l.inz plant before turning on about 20 ckmon...trators. according to police. Tht·re wert: no injuries, and the protntors drove off in vans. police said. About I 00 workers at tht: <:Ill·mie Linz plant sutfernl skin disordt:rs aftt·r an accident here in 19"7:t Thrt•t· years later. dioxin t·sc.:aped into tht.· air from a plant in St·w·so, northt·rn Italy Tht· inddt·nt was hlamt·d for a series of stil­lbirths. birth dt'f(:('(s and,hundrt·ds ofcascs of a rare skin disease. ­
AP 
A 70-year-old man tlying a homemadt: airplane he had worknl on for I "i years was killed wht·n tht: craft plummt:ted to tilt' ground. Anson William Munson. of Punta Gorda. Florida. was killed Tut·sday afternoon ncar Charlotte County Airport in the singk-c:ngint·. four-passt·ngt·r I>ykt· lkha. A witnt·ss cstimated that the plane fell from I. "iiHI fc<:t. Ownt·r oftht· aircraft.,I. Austin Kimble of !.t-high Acrc·s. said he and Munson startc<.l huilding tht· Ddta I "i yt·ar.., ago in .\1unson's shop in Llurd. :\hi. Thc Feckral Aviation Ad· ministration and National Transportation Safety Board said they would inn:stig<lll'. -AP 

Of Interest 
I 
San Diego Zoo, in an effort w t·xpand a rare-monkey breeding program. has purchasnl I:; lion-tailed mact<.JUt'S from tht· private colkction of Prinn· Rainier of \tonaco. Tht• zoo had twgotiatnl a price of S I 2500 for I H monkevs. but thrt'l' died. so tht· price probabl\ will he lowered. Sheldon Camphdl. president ofthe San Di<.-go Zoological ~(Kil't\·. ~aid Tul·sdav. "As far as I know. tht· moncy got·s to thc princT himsdf. but I guess that i~ the gon-rnment. \\ c'll pay wlwrt· wt·'re told to." Campbell said. Till' zoo ala·ady had 
I:; oftill' l'IH.langnnl animals. ( >nly :~00 to (lOO lion-taill'd mact4ut·s. natiH' to southl'rn India. arc hdit'\Td lcft in till' wild. -AP 


I Weather · · · 
Mostly sunnytoday with high in mid to uppt:r 60s. Clear tonight and cool with lows in mid -tOs. Partly cloudy tomorrow with high in uppt·r 60s. -AP 

Thursday, October 6, 1983 -page 2 
Scholastic: Quality i m proving? 
It's out. Scholastic the monthly student magazine of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's hit the streets last Friday. 
Reactions to the magazine's first issue, however, were mixed. While some praised its quality by calling it a "fine example of journalistic talent," others accused Scholastic of ingratiating itsdf to students and faculty members. One student even compared the issue to a "had high school newspaper." 
Such conflicting comments may he common for any college publication, but Jim Ganther, Scholastic's editor-in-chid. doesn't take such reader feedback light· ly. "Scholastic has made a 4uantum leap in the last five years," he says. Gamher recalls the late 1970s when the magazine ran only 16 pages per issue, a downturn whi<..-h even prompted a Notre Dame administrator to suggest Scholastic cease publishing. But under Chuck Wood, editor-in­

students' activites."
chief from 19HO to 19H2, 

Ganther also believes the
Scholastic enjoyed a rebirth 

advisory council will have
-it no longer attempted to 

much impact on this year's
compete with The Ohsen,er 

editorial direction;
for hard news; instead, Wood decided to print only in-depth news and feature artidcs. 
As a writer for S(.·holastic during Wood's t1·nure. I realized \X'ood's ability to turn student-scholars into magazine writers and 

"politically moderate"
editors -a change \Vhich \ CJ 80's
\~+c. '9 70s 

magazine which will not
rarely takes place at a 

"spoonfeed" students with
student-run newspaper or 

'Whe.rr does it-go "too many articles on
magazine. 

spirituality and social
But Wood, who now From he.~? 
works with the Washington 

D.C. archdiocest·'s newspaper Catholic Standard, left a dt:t:p hole for his 
succes~ors. 

Beth Healey Preuss. last year's editor-in-chief, was not as ecstatically received by administrators as was \X'ood. One administrator remarked that Wood's high literary standards may have "spoiled" Scholastic readers, and said the magazine under Preuss failed w reach the literary standards of Wood. Preuss, now working for Notre Dame's University Press, disagrees. 
Scholastic began paying its editors and doing its own layout for the first time last year, said Preuss. According to Preuss, quality at the magazine remained high while students became more involved in the production of 
the magazine. 

Such a change in the financial policy of the magazine promptcd University administrators to become "ridiculous" about finances, according to Preuss. Even with the new salaries, Scholastic was able to save the University over 51,000 through revamped advertising 
_ The_Obser_ver_ (.muposilion Editor.......... Carok Laugit'r (.omjmsition Assi.~tanl \1aurn·n Murphy ami Chri~ liowil'r l)'Jiest'lll'rs......... Vk Sc:iulli ami T<:tl Dore ,'Veu·s J:tlilor ................. Annt· Monastyrski Copy l:'tlitor............... ..·...................... Pal Sain .\fmrt.~ (.'of~J' l:'tlltor.... ......... Mark Ramirez 1'1'(/fUn!S /,ti)'OUI.. .... .. Man Healy S.H(. /}1/J' l:'lli/nl'... .. ...... \I an· Ann Potter .~d /Jt,sign . . ..... Boh Ciulla PbolografJh<'l'. . . .. Thoma~ l~rown (,'IlL'SI ..J.{Ifll'tlf'tl/1('('.~ ..... . Paul \kGinn I.}twit• oftbe Oar It oi/IJ' tak<'s fll'n wonts /IJ 1>/nw J'Oll illl'll)'  
The Obeerver (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The ObMrver 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s College Subscnp!lons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntmg The Obaerver. P 0 Box Q. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The ObMrver IS a member of The Auocl.ted PreM. All reproduct1on nghts are reserved  

Catering Dept. of St. Mary's College is currently in need of waitersIwaitresses for a large ban­quet to be held on October 7. Please call Cindy at 284-5542 or stop into the dining hall office to apply. 
12:30 -4 Monday-Friday 
Haggar Ctr -3rd Floor 

Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Thursday 


and circulation programs, she says. 

But more important than saving money, Preuss was able to bring together faculty, students, and ad­ministrators. Scholastic editors met with four faculty members and one administrator each semester to help 
the students assess editorial policies, she says. 

Preuss hoped such a advisory committee would help overcome the two greatest handicaps of any student­run organization: students who will not "admit to their own ignorance," and faculty members "who won't 
devote themselves to the 
• 
however, he has changed the philosophy established by Wood and Preuss who Ganther says were "too wrapped up in themes." 
Ganther says hc wants to make Scholastic less of a "soapbox" and more of a 
justice." 

Because he is a finance 
major, Ganther considers himsdf"a little bit more prag­
matic" than former editors-in-chid, most ofwhom have 
been enrolled in the College ofArts and Letters. He also 
contends he knows what students want to read: sports. general news. and and no more than "two or three ar­.tides" on a specific topic. 
But ifthe editorial policies ofWood and Preuss mean anything, Ganther's new philosophy of makingScholas­tic into a general interest magazine free of thematic guidelines may create many difficulties for the 
magazine. Wood and Preuss knew St-·holastic's purpose was to offer a publication through which students and faculty members could comment on complicated issues. And two or three articles just don't seem to be enough. 
Observer note 

The Observer needs news editors and news copy editors. Ifyou're interested in either of these paid posi­tions, see Paul McGinn at The Observer office. Applica­
tions are due Monday at S p.m. 


An out of print book you cannot locate? Try our search service! nationally circulated initial cost: $.75 no obligation 500Jo success rate eight weeks 


ERASMUS BOOKS 

noon~, Toes .-Sun: 
232-8444 

The Observer Thursday, October 6, 1983 -page 3 
Jesse Helms abandons fight against Martin L. King holiday 
Associated Press would be called up if we got unani­purpose in stalling was to push the mous consent" on the King voting vote back past the week-long recess WASHINGTON -Republican -schedule, Helms said in an inter­that starts Monday. jesse Helms of North Carolina view. "It happens all the time around 
''I'm following exactly the
abandoned yesterday his one-man this place. I don't see anything in­
strategy I started out with," Helms
filibuster against a bill honoring Mar­sidious about that." 
said. "I wanted to take this beyond
tin Luther King, Jr. with a national The Helms-Baker agreement 
the Columbus Day recess so
holiday, virtually ensuring it will be prevented the need for at least two 
senators can have time to think and
passed by the Senate and signed by cloture votes, the first scheduled 
their constituents can get to them. If
President Reagan later this month. yesterday, to limit debate. 
people don't contact their senators,
In return for not fighting a Baker and Robert Dole, R-Kan., 
so be it."
scheduled Oct. 19 vote on the King floor manager of the King holiday Helms would not specify the lan­
measure, Helms got his way on a bill bill, have said it will pass by a wide 
guage ofhis amendments but said he
important to his tobacco-producing margin and President Reagan's wanted to "delete shutting down
state. spokesmen have declared he will 
this country for anybody, including
Immediately after the Senate sign it. my own personal hero, Thomas Jef­
agreed to the King voting schedule, The House passed the measure ferson. If they want to set aside (the
Majority Leader Howard Baker -by two months ago by a 338-90 vote. holiday) on Sunday, that is fine." 
prior arrangement with Helms -It sets the third Monday injanuary brought to the floor a bill that would -starting in 1986 -as a day to Helms said he knew that his op­set price supports for dairy products honor the slain civil rights leader. position to the bill and his com­
Th~ Observ~r!Tboma..~ Brown

and tobacco. It was a measure Helms His actual birthday is jan. 15. ments that King espoused Laid to Rest wanted considered before next Helms, who said his mail was "action-oriented Marxism" would 
Pallbearers carry• the body ofBrotherAdalbert Rount u•ho u•as buried

week's Columbus Day recess. "overwhelmingly in favor of my keep him from getting any black 
yesterday in Saint joseph's Cemetery, fo/loU'ing the ftmeml mass. The

"Sure, I had the arrangement with position" against the holiday, con­votes if he runs for re-election next the majority leader that the farm bill tended in the interview his only year. 70-year-old Ho~v Cross brother died oflung cancerSundt~l'. 

"A World Of Wine IV" 
Presented by KINGS CELLAR & WYEZ 
PRICES GOOD THRU 
OCTOBER 8, 1983 
for the benefit of 
~.. 
The American Heart Assac.:1ation 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1983
SO. lEND AVE. 
5:00-9:00 P.M. Notre D1me Athletic & Convoc1tion Center W1ne and Cheese • '5.00 Donation
STOll ONLY 
TICKETS AVAILABlE AT ALL KINGS CELLAR STORES 





BEER 
LIQUOR 

WINE 
BUDWEISER EARLY TIMES $99 9 
OR BOURBON 
1.75 liTER 

CANEI

BUDWEISER LIGHT 
24 LOOSE 


WINE 
750 Ml. 

JA~~o~~NIELS J99 t---~ 
RIUNITE 
29
KINGS CELLAR 
UMBRUSCO 4
J99 
750 Ml. 
t .,

'J rw VODKA 1.75 liTER 
._ ::; ~ 
, I 
ZONIN 499 
~ if~l '".I llrl " 
ASTI SPUMANTE
WINDSOR 
750 Ml.
CANADIAN 1099 
BLUE NUN 399
1.75 LITER 
LIEBFRAUMILCH 
750 Ml.
CALVERT 
ALMADEN 
39
MOUNTAIN WINES 9
EXI~~ liTER 1 0 99 
1.5 LITER
. 
LA YIELLE FERME 9 9 
3
AMERICAN 
RED OR WHITE
499 
750 Ml.
CREAM 750 Ml.

BUDWEISER KEGS 
CORDDNIU 49 9 
SOUTHERN 
Blanc de Blanc 
750 ML
COMFORT 599 
750 Ml. 
1
2 9 99 

\12 BARREL APPROX. 200 SERVIt-JGS PER 112 BARREL HIRAM WALKER 




OiOLW 
~c-----__)

PLUS DEPOSIT AMARETTO 599 
I
~ I WINE
750 ML.

WHILE SUPPLIES LAST 
..... , 
BOll• 
299

QUARTS 
750ML
• 

OLD MILWAUKEEcASE6.79 BUDWEISER ••• cASES.79 


Students: we accept student cfiecks-wlth. N.D. LD.s 
WE WILL BEAT ALL ADVERTISED PRICES-YOU MUST BRING IN THEIR AD 
-._.............. .
_, 

. -.. ---------------·-.. --.......... -.......... -. ~ ... --·-.. \. 


The Observer Thursday, October 6, .,.. 1983 -page 4 
N.Y.'s Cardinal Cooke 'gravely ill' 

Associated Press staged, hut that's thl' way thl' man fl'els." Finn said." He.: wants this to hl' 
NEW YORK -Cardinal Tcrenn: purposeful. He.: wants his suffering to Cooke. archbishop for I.H million he.· a beautiful gift for othc.:rs." New York Roman Catholit:s, offered Catholics hdievc.: that suffc.:ring the.: pain of his leukemia "as a ht."auti­<:an be dc.:dkatc.:d w a purpose.:. ful gift for others" yesterday as his including the salvation of the souls life.: continued to slip away, a spokes­of others. man ~aid. 
Finn said at nt'ws hric.:fings yc.:ster­
fatha Pc.·t~:r finn. spokesman for 
day that Cookc.:'s <.'ondition
the Archdim.Tse of Nc.·w York. said 
remained unchanged, and "the.: un­Cooke remained ''gravely ill." under predictable course ofhis illness does
mcdic.'ation and ncar dc.·ath. 
not permit predse estimates" of
But he.· said <:ookc.· wantc.:d to 
how long he.· would live.
remain nmscious as muc.:h as pos­
sible.-so that his suffc.·ring could he 
"The omclusion can he in a mat·
"pu rposcfuI."
Terence Cardinal Cooke 
ter of hours or a matter ofdays. It's in
''Thal. might sound a little.: hit 
the.: hands ofGod. rc:ally," he: said. 
Finn said Cookc:'s physician, Dr. Kevin Cahill, had attc.:nded him throughout the: day, administering

Argentina's president 
transfusions and medication. 
' 
Priests living in the grey stone rn:·


threatens to resign 
tory hc.:hind St. Patrick's Cathedral periodit:ally.c:nterc:d Cookc:'s room 
·., • . t ' 
Associated Press 
zakz dd Solar jailed aftt."r he and prayed with the: cardinal, Finn returned from a <kht-n:f!egotiation .said. '· · · · 
'f • ~:
Bl 'ENOS AIRt:s: Argentina 

meeting in Washington. , !. Prc.·,idcnt lkynaldo' Bignone told In Rome. P<ipc john Paul II said the.· militan regime.· hC.:-' would quit Pinto Kramn ordc.·rc.·d thl' arrest Mass for Cooke.'. The apostolic hd(m: dcl'tion' (>ct. :W if a ti.:dcral on grounds that (;onzakz del Solar dckgatc.· in Washington. Archbishop judge '-UlTtTd:o. in blocking hetrayc.·d national intc.-rnts hy agrel'­Pio Laghi. told Cooke's staff that the rc.·negotiation of Argentina·, 4 huge ing to a clause in a rcnegot iation pontiff "cxprcss<.·d his pasonal and fi1rc.·ign dc.·ht. till' newspaper (,/orin contract that would giVl' forc.·ign prayc.·rful concc.:rn and lovl'" for the: ~aid \TS(('rtl~l\'. courts jurisdic.'tion in disputc.·s. Thl' <:ardinal. At the govcrnmc.·nt':-. rn.Jut·st. an judge also suspendc.·d rc.·negotiation 
Spend a "NEAT" evening with DOUG NIEDT "neet" CLASSICAL GUITARIST WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER26 
8:00PM'·· 
Bendix.th~atre ~ := ~ · ~­
CENTURY CENTER .-:-'A unique performance-by one of!he greatest guitarists in the world today! ·· 
All tickets $7.00 On Sale Now! ticket info. call284-971 · 

appt·ab court look on·r the dcht c"c.· from the.· judgt·. Fnkrico Pinro Kramer. who )Tstc.-rday frc.·c.·d the presidl'lll of the ( :l'lllral Bank from 
jail.  
The rc.·port in Cfarin.  a  mas:. cir·  
nllation daily.  came cmc.·  day after  
Bignone  appearnl  on  national  

tde\'i:o.ion during a paralyzing nationwitk strike: to in,ist that Ar· gemina would not dl'fault on its loan obligation' and imc.·nds to pron-c.-d with the elc.-ctions. dcsignc.·d to c..·nd ~c.·,·c..·n years of military ruk. 
Argc.·ntina's politic.·aJ c..Tonomic.· unc..Trtainty intc.·Jbific.·d \tonda)· wlll'n PinlO KramlT had <:c.·ntral Bank Prc..·sidc:nt Julio {;on­
' 

:: Introductory Lesson 1/2 Price \ 4 715 W. Progress Drive ) Michiana Regional Airport (219) 234-6011 :::: South Bend, IN 46628 
.. Experience the cloy of Flying :: Solo in 30 days Open 7 Days .. for under $499 a Week 
j4===.· =-=-=·::.-::.:::=·======·=="::::'::::J?~:J2Zi~»:J'j3c::_"'_=._::.._r:::..._::;:z.....-::::_·==·=·=·-·· -:-._=
.. .. ,,.,.,:~_-.,.:
ll Burn's Creative Costume Shop ~ 
IIt 608 Liberty Drive, Mishawaka • 
fi 259-4807 
!I 
Fulfill Your Wildest Fantasies
~I
I 
. \Nith Our Costumes lj Birthday Cake Dancing Beer Cans 

I . Lepracauns 
Sequin Gowns 

I Spiders Sequin Jackets Bee '
II Fly 
~~

I I I I ~ lI 
I' 
, I 
~-1 
~ 1

i I I AND MANY MORE I lj Student Discounts Stop in to Reserve f !i No Deposit with Notre Dame or St. Mary's 10 
c 

II 
lj HOURS: Mon.· Fri. 9:00am. 5:00pm 
:l 

I Sat. 9:00am · 12:00 noon
i 
, Extended Hours for Halloween 
! 
I 
fit'_.z.,.~~~....-.J.~---~-·----__-. ---~--------~--..::-~·---iloll 
ofthe.· ckhts of.~ I state corporation,. 
As a result. foreign hankers in 
Buc.·nos Aires said they had stopped 
loan dbhursals to tht· governmc.·nt. 
In ordt:ring <;onzalc.·z del Solar's rdc.·ase )TStc.·rdaY. Pimo Kramer said he was responding to "the urgency ,,.·ith which the h·dc..:ral Appt·als Chamhc.·r took ovc.:r the.· c1se." 
Pinto Kramc.-r sits in Rio <;allegos. 
1.900 milc.-s south of the.· capital. His 

onkr was rc.·ad via telephone to the.· Assodated Press hy his secretary. It dc.·scrihnl (;onzall'Z del Solar as "indictnl" hut did not spt·t·if\ any charges. 
NOTR.EbAlvl~ SNNT MN~f'S 


IHEAT~ 
~Jresents 

1HE SHIN CfOURTEE1H 
October 7, H, I {, 1-l, I'1-H:l J( l p. rn. C)'I c1ughl111 Auditorium 
tickets __ _ 
---284-4626 --­
¥'54'533 Terrace Lane il Across from Martin's il (St. Rd. 23) 
..•
..
..
.. 
•
il Hrs. Tue. Wed, Sat 8:30-5::~0 il Thur. Fri 8 _".0-H: ~0 W
t 
Mon.9-2:3o 

***********************.JCOUPON ********* 
BANKING•••NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's new office, located at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to St. Mary's and Notre Dame studentsand faculty. 
In addition, our newest office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours • Monday through Friday Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m. · 3:30 p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m.· 4:00p.m. 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed' banking service! 
...... 
-
..... ·-.... 
~source
..:aank 
Member F.D.I.C. 

We want you to look your best this taU with a distinctive custom designers hair cut from the expert stylists at the Knights. 
Haircut, Shampoo Blow Dry, Condition Regular $15.00 Now $8.50 with coupon 
Applies to male patrons only 
/ . f f 

e are on Y m1nu es :rom campu 
272-0312 277-1619 

-----~----~-----­




The Observer Thursday, October 6, 1983 -page 5 


the Plants & Flowers shop 
Basement-Lemans Hall, SMC 
284-4597 
Everyday Low Prices 

Roses: $10/doz. & up Sweetheart Roses: $6.50I doz. & up 
Going to a Dance? We have corsages: nosegays-comoo•~ 
Rose Boutoniere: $1.40 & up Carry Rose: $1.95 & ap Corsages: $3.95 A up Baby breath aDd greea iacladecl 

New Jersey Club -OctoberBreak Bus Sign-ups Thurs., Oct. 6 6:30pm LaFortune Ballroom-Roundtrip $80. John-1583 








---_.. 
/1/J --­
() (: 
Saturday October 8 at 5:00pm UNCLE'S IRISH PUB ''Sausage Cookout''. 
watch N.D. vs. South Carolina Giant Screen T.D. Video Movies DRAFT $.75 Mixed brink and Pitcher Specials 
ALL NIGHTU! 

On Sat.-Century Center aox OHke or Notre Dame Student Union Ticket OHke 
• 

FOil CHARGI ORDIIt5-Call214-9111 
Toxic dumps violate permits 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Congressional investigators reported yesterday that 78 percent of the hazardous waste dumps they checked this'sum­mer were violating their federal per­mits by not monitoring for possible leaks of toxic chemicals into drink­ing water supplies. 
Two influential congressmen said they were "shocked," and vowed to ask the House to provide for criminal prosecution of dump operators who deliberately ignore health safeguards imposed by federal law. 
The sample survey of state pollu­tion officials in North Carolina and Illinois was conducted by the General Accounting Office, the in­vestigative arm of Congress, which found that 78 percent of the dumps operating under so-called "interim status pemits" were not checking for groundwater pollution, as re­quired. In Illinois, the GAO said, 33 of 38 sites were not meeting re­quirements, and in North Carolina, 18 of27 sites were not complying. 
In two other states surveyed, the GAO said, Massachusetts and 

Arizona's flood areas to get aid 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. President Reagan declared five counties disas­ter areas yesterday in flooded sout­heast Arizona, and forecasters warned a hurricane in the Pacific could bring more unwanted rain. 
Floodwaters receded under most­ly sunny skies for a second con­secutive day, allowing officials to begin toting up the damage, 

Student Organization for Latin America presents CentralAmerica Film Series 
Americas in Transition 
Thurs., Oct.6 7:oo & 9:30 Centerfor Social Concerns Discussion to follow 7:00 show 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the ''Terrace Lounge'' South Bend's largest 34 oz. tankard of beer is only 

$2.50 
'; (Sorry. No mug sales this year.) 
Thursdays are fun at the Marriott! 
SOUTH BEND ~0rri0tt HOTEL 
J:l:l \ St. .Jo~ph Strf:'t'l, South Ht-nd. Indiana 46601 
Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 
"CJQowe~m fptt aQQ occm~iottg .. 
Come in and Browse . 
327 lincolnway 232-3354 
tentatively set at more than S300 million with I0 people dead and five missing. 
In what's being called Arizona's worst disaster of the century, American Red Cross surveys indi­cated about 3,000 houses, mobile homes, and apartment units had been destroyed or damaged by the 
flooding  that  began  over  the  
weekend.  The  numbers were  ex­ 
pected to climb.  

California state officials did not 
know how many sites were in com­
pliance because few had been 
checked. 
The GAO said underground water 
pollution "is the most serious poten­
tial threat to human health and the 
environment posed by the disposal of hazardous waste." An estimated 1,350 sites nationwide are subject to the groundwater monitoring re­quirement. 
In addition, the GAO said, neither the Environmental Protection Agency, which issues the permits, nor state officials are making sure dump operators are complying with financial requirements intended to ensure that dumps can be safely closed when full and then main­tained, and that adequate insurance against accidents has been obtained. 
The GAO study was released by Rep. james Florio, 0-N.j., chairman of the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee with jurisdiction over hazardous wastes, and Rep. Norman F. Lent of New York, the panel's senior Republican. 
Florio said that even the minimal health precautions required by the interim permits were not being 
The Red Cross put out a call for more volunteer nurses Tuesday night as it opened a 16th emergency shdter -the I'; others housing more than 2,900 people -to ac­commodate evacuees from the Hol­ly Acres subdivision southwest of Phoenix. 
About half of the subdivision's 300 rt::,iut:nts left their homes Tues­day night because of heavy flow in the combined Gila and Salt Rivers. They returned yesterday after the water receded more than a foot. 
Reagan's declaration will free federal funds for assistance in Green­lee, Pima, Santa Cruz, Graham and Pinal counties. Gov. Bruce Babbitt, who toured flood-stricken areas around Tucson on Wednesday, had asked for federal aid to I0 counties. 
Bob Blair, a Federal Emergency Management Agency spokesman in Washington, said federal and state officials were still assessing damages and that other counties might be added to the list. 
carried out. The interim permits are supposed to be temporary, pending more t·ompreht·nsive permanent licensing, and con:r nearly all legal dump sites in the country 
Tht· GAO said through July 19H3. 
2-t of an estimated H.OOO facilities 
expected to require permits had 
received their permant·nt licenses, 
and the process of lit·ensing the rest 
could takt· another I0 years. 
The interim pt·rmits require dump operators to install monitor­ing wells around their sites and take periodic samples to indicatt· whether wastes have leaked from the site and are seeping toward un­derground watt:'f supplies. 
The GAO said state officials at· 
tributed the lack of compliance to 
the technical complexity and costs 
ofdoing so. A North Carolina offkial 
was quoted as saying that it costs 
about S4,000 to install a monitoring 
well and about S12,800 for thr first 
year's sampling. 
Florio and l.cnt said they would 
introduce an amrndment tu ttw 
federal wastr disposal law that nmld 
impose criminal sanc.:tions on dump 
ownrrs who deliberatdy evade per· 
mit requirements. 

Thursday, October 6, 1983 -page 6 
Lebanese people anxious for peace 
U'e shall tU!t•er understand one another until u·e reduce the lan~uage to set'('1l u•ords. Kahlil Gihmn ( 1883-193I) 
Lc:hanon. StTm~ wc._·'n: always hc._·aring had nn\'~ from the._· tiny Mate:, hmr-tlfths the size: of ( :ounc:ctkut. 
Keith Picher Profundity's demise 
Nestkd ht:t\\'t'en Syria. lsra<:l and the .\1t-diterranean. Lebanon once was praised by <iihran for its hc:auty. Now its beauty is bit­tersweet. 
Beneath the crumbling buildings and war­torn countryside is a people: -a people tired of war, sick of forc:ignc:rs and desperate for pc:an:. Nc:arly cvcryonc: has lost a sibling, parc:nt, grawJparc._·nt, or friend to shrapnel. Thc: nmntry itself will hkc:d to death soon. 
In the midst ofdespair are hc:roes. Not John Waync:s or Davy Crocketts, hut everyday people: who live superhuman lives. 
A middk-agc._·d father leaves his family to work in Alexandria. Frec:d from Beirut's violence, he earns a check for his wife and sc._·ven childrc:n Back home:. the youngest child asks her mother "When will pappa he: home'" Mom looks at the child's tearful eyes, thc:n at the southc:rn sky, wishing she knew the: answer. 
A woman of 2 I brings hope through the Rc:d Cross to a nmntryside full of hopekss pc:oplt:. Dodging bullets and offering herself foolishly as a sacrifice, she: heals the healable, and is numbed by the incurable. 
Ayoung man is unable to cross to his side: of the city. His job -no, his livt:lihood, lies hc:yond the guns which cripple Beirut. He worries about the bounty placed on his head, and the heads of his brothc:rs. With courage and conviction ht· dc:fies the threat for his family's sake. 
A young woman leaves her country for medical school in the States. Isolated for a timt' from the horror of her homt:land, she plans to rt'turn as soon as possible. Her only reminder comes on the weekend, when she turns on the TV. The New England Patriots and New York Jets appear, not as football tt'ams, but warring factions in her hellish country. 
A mother holds her blood-drained child who wailed, though he could not understand. 
His mother cries because she  understands.  
Somehow  she  survives  the  ordeal,  and  
manages to calm her children.  

A professor teaches a class, ignoring a huge knife jabbed into the chalkboard, complete with a death threat. Later, a student threatens to kidnap and murder his loved ones. The stu­dt'nt seeks a passing grade, hut the teacher does not acquiesce, refusing to share in the: t'Vil which infects his homeland. 
Outside Lebanon are relatives and friends who worry. They write letters often, as do the Lebanese. But the postal service rarely gets mail into or out of the country, and after a while: both sides stop writing. 

Lebanon suffers a terminal illness, but never dies. It screams with intense pain, but never passes out. It is a wound whose scab is picked repeatedly when nearly healed. 
Many ofits people have a nearly foolish faith that, when all the foreigners leave, the Druse and the Maronites will settle their differences. 
The Turks, the French, the U.S., the P.L.O., the Syrians, and the Israelis have all played with Lebanon, nearly trampling her to death. 
But the Lebanese have not given up. They are a strong-willed people who stare at Death daily, but refuse to give in. 
FortWayne murders add perspective to life 
Almost two weeks ago, a young family was brutally murdt:rt'd in their homt:, It-ss than a milt: from mv homt: in ft. Wavnt:. A father and hb ekven y~·ar old son wc._·r~ killt:d with the: youngster's baseball hat. probably in their 
Mike Wilkins 

Here, there, and back 
slt-ep. The: <.:hild's mother was ht'atc._·n to death wilh a large radio in a downstairs room. Tht' only survivor was a two year-old girl who was raped by tht." atta{.·ker. 
At the time, police had no suspe{.·ts and no motivc:. The._· assailant(s) apparently entered the home: through an unlockl·d door during the night. Nothing was stolen from the home. 
Record review-? 
Plc.-asc._·, not another uninformc._·d music nitk. \X'e an: talking about Bob Vonder­ht'itk's so-c.·allt-d rc.Tord rc.·vit'w "The Ballet T~tkc._·s a Nt·w Turn·· (September 2H ). It is not our intt·nt to c.·ommt·n·t on his opinion ofSpan­dau Ballc:t"s "Trut'." Anyont· has the right to 
like.-or dislike._· an album. Our concern is his tgnorancc._· of the: whole New Music 
phenomenon  and  his  gross gcnt'ralizations  
and  comparisons  whid1  lack  validity  and  
ncdihilitv.  

Fir~t. he.· misusc:s the term new wave. Nc.-w \X'avc: wa~ a term which "...des{.Tnded form the: noun:llc.· vogue. with all of the anendant overtonc:s of any fun and stylizt·d nose­thumbing." as c:xplaint'd in the August 9. 19H!t issue of The Village Voi<·e. The term Vonder­heide should ha\'t· used is "Nt·w Musk" whi<.:h includes all the.· ditfc.-rent movements includ-
The police have a few suspects, but they seem 
no closer to solving tht: bizarre crimt' than 
whc.·n tht'y started. 
My anger at the disgusting crime is ex­
traordinary. My parents and neighbors are tru­
ly frightened. Parents now stay home with 
their t"hildrt·n on tht' the weekends. Those who want to go out cannot find baby-sitters. So many pt.·ople have decided to install security systems that companies are unable to mn·t the demand. 
My family is as scared as any other family in the neighborhood. My mom sleeps very little at night and is extremely careful when she's alone: at home. The entire family makes sure that every door and window is locked at night. The practice never seemed necessary before. My father has even considered buying a gun and taking lessons. a drastic step in everyone's 
eyes, including his own. Now that I've seen what the murders have done to my neighborhood, I see my family in a little different light. Somehow when you're away at school, it's easy to let your family slip to the back ofyour mind. Thoughts of school become more important than thoughts of home, and contact can be limited to an oc­casional phone call or letter. Even if it is pos­sible to keep in touch, thoughts of one's parents often end when the phone is hung up, or the letter is put away. I'm as guilty as anyone. From now on, I'll try very hard to think of them. Now I see my family in a different 
perspective. Academic problems, which one time seemed severe, now seem a bit less im­portant. At least I can understand their impor­
tance more clearly. I think about my family 

P. 0. BoxQ 
ing Ska. New Romance, and Advant Garde 
music. 

Wt:" question Vonderheide's knowledge of 
Spandau Ballet and the other British and 
Australian groups he cites. Are British New 
Musit.· hands really "looking for American dol­
larsr We think not. The majority of British 
New Musk bands like New Order and Heaven 
I 7 arc not com:emed with making it big in the States as t'Viden{.·c:d by tht: non-conformist nature of their music and their lack of American puhli<:ity stunts. 
Although Vonderheide cites many bands, his m isconc.·eptions oftheir music is clear. The epitome of these misconceptions is his catc:gorizatinn of Haircut One Hundred's sound as "funk". Any New Music listener knows that Haircut's English Ska is situated at the opposite end of the music spectrum from urban (.'Ont'm(>(lrary funk. 
Furthermore. we find Vonderheide's gross gent·ralizations about certain groups and their 
music frustrating. For example, every song which New Order has recorded does not have a "breakneck pace" that is danceable; has Von­
derheide heard "Your Silent Face" and "We Stand Alone," two songs on New Order's latest album? Similarly, every song on Madness' al· bum carries a different beat and tempo. 
From the first sentence of his article Von­derheide reveals his myopic outlook on music. He seems unwilling to accept any new music, let alone new bands from England. 
Vonderheide is not only dosing his ears, he is closing his mind to everything that British New Music has to offer. It is a shame that his article focused on the rejection of British music, instead ofSpandau Ballet's "True." 
EdU'ardAugu.'ifine Diane Yoder 
more often now, not just when I get a letter or 
a phone call. 

It's a shame that it takes a tragedy to make people see the importance of the people around them. Death puts things into perspective so harshly. Too many times it's too late when we remember how important those close to us really are. Despite crammed schedules and vitally important tests, each of us should take more time to remember our family and friends who are so special to us. 
Don't wait for a tragedy to think about those important to you. Sit down today and write a letter to a friend you haven't talked to in a long time. Or invest in a phone call tonight to tell your parents how much you love them. Ifyou don't take th& time to put things into perspective, you may not get the chance. 

N.D. calendar 
DearEditor: 
Upon reading the many recent articles and letters on the "Men of Notre Dame" calendar, I feel obliged to add my two cents worth. 
No gorgeous hunks in bathing suits, please. Imagine, instead, Father Hesburgh in full habit inviting us to make the legendary trek up the fire escape, or Emil reclining at St. Joseph'. 
beach with his physical models ofatoms. Ho about a (male) freshmen engineer sprawled sexily in the halls of Fitzpatrick waiting for terminal on the engineering computu? One of our vemerable security guards naughtily enticing us to come on campus with our cars? Or how about an anonymous Notre Dame quarterback out for a leisurely run with an opposing defensive line joining him? I think 
we'd all prefer what we know to be a good gag to something that may or may not be for real. 
Dominique Laflamme 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief .... _... _....... David Dziedzic flo.\·(_.}. \'('frt•lhmwl \ 1(,5)(, r.! I<J) .!J<J. 5303 Managing Editor _.. _......... Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ............... Daniel O'Hare 
llw Oh.'it'TI't'T 1~ the.· mtkpentknt nc.·w-.papc.·r puhli-.hn.l tl\ the -.tmknl-. of the._· Uni­Executive Editor . . _....... ___ . _.. Paul McGinn Controller . ... _.................. Alex Szilvas H·r-.it\· ol Notre l>anw du l.ac ;.t!HI Saint \1an··-. Colkgc.· It dot·-. nut nt·c.·t·-.~aril~· rdkn News Editor .. _..... _... __ .. . Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen tile.' polluc.·-. ol the adm•n•-.tratHHl ol c._·ithc.-r m-.tltution Thl' nt'""' i-. rt•portc.·d a-. ac. News Editor . ............ _.... Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzauuc i..a Croix 
cur;lldY and a-. ohjc.-ct1 \Th a-. po-.~•hk I n-.•gnnl c.·c._lltoriab rc.·prc.·-.t·nt tht· opinon oLa Saint Mary'sEdi;';jt . .. _.... _ . Anne Monastyf-ski· · Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto m.tJOflt\' ot tilt" Editorial Bo;1nl < :01nmc.·ntanc.·-.. It-Her,_ and the.· In-.tdc.· ( ·olumn prc.·~·nt features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamihog System Manag~r ............... Kt"vin ~-illiams the.·\ •c.·w-. of their author-. < ulumn 'P;Kc.· i~ ;t\'aiiJhk to all nwmhc.·r-. nt the: c.·ummunitv. Photo l:..aitor ... _........ __ ...... Scou Bower 
\Jwrts l:'tlitor ............... ... .... .. \liehad Sulli,·;lll .
;.tllclthc.·lnT t·xpn·-.-.um ol '.1n mgopmaon-. on c.tmpu-.. through kttc.-r'. ,.., c.·nc.·nuragc.·d ··oundrd Novem~r J. 1966 


The Bindery 
Just one of those days 
friend Crosbee, the stereotypical 

Yale grad with the high tastes and
by Yic Sciulli 
atrociously overdone Boston ac­cent. And then there are the numerous jabs at Boston, which Fis­
Fisher's Hornpipe 
her contemptuously regards as "a
by Todd McEwen 
debased puppet theater on a big New York, Harper & Row, 1982 chain drive." McEwen's intellect is never offensive however and even
$12.95 
D
the true Bostonian is likely to find 256 pages more than a bit to laugh at in his analogies. id you ever have one ofthose den Pond, Fisher slips on a bump in The humor and the events are days? You know, the kind ofday the ice, splitting his head and begin­quick and spontaneous; there is a where one bad thing after another ning his "Hitchcockian nightmare" 
surprise at every turn ofthe page. happens, and all you can do is just sit in which he is falsely accused of 
While visiting Walden Lake early in back and watch helplessly as a single being crazy, violates deeply held the novel, Fisher notices Henry stroke ofmisfortune snowballs into principles, starts a fire in a public David Thoreau himself under the 
an uncontrollable series ofevents? library, gets caught nude in his office ice's surface. With dead fish in his This all-too-familiar occurrence is by the company vice president, aging beard, Thoreau flashes Fisher a the basis for the plot ofFisher's argues with one girlfriend and gets sign saying, "Go get Emerson." Fis­
Hornpipe, Todd McEwen's hilarious seduced by another and, leads a riot her, ofcourse, acts as ifthis happens first novel. ofderelicts in downtown Boston. all the time. The entire scene William Fisher, a young, crass Though Fisher's responses and transpires so naturally, one is never employee ofBoston's Institute of determination are dulled by the really sure whether Fisher is hal­accident, nothing about him really lucinating or daydreaming.
Science is the unlikely recipient of changes. People's perceptions of
the series of misfortunes. While One ofthe most immediate things him, however, do change. His
enjoying the wildlife and the early that is noticed in this novel is 
winter morning on the famed Wal-bloodied bandage and unshaven McEwen's almost complete lack of face, coupled with his already er­conventional paragraphing and ratic nature get him into even more punctuation. Quotation marks and trouble with people who think he's a commas are used very infrequently. crazy derelict. Left to defend himself This lack of natural breaks helps 

against the accusations, Fisher's ex­communicate just how quickly planations backfire and only serve to everything is happening. convince others ofhis mental in­Early in the novel, Fisher stability. befriends Frank ofOregon, a street 
Fisher regards everything around bum with a touch ofclass. As their him with sarcastic contempt, from friendship grows, Fisher's relation­his job at the Institute, to the city of ships with the other characters Boston itselfwhere most ofthe ac­deteriorate; he loses his girlfriend 
tion in the novel occurs. McEwen Jillian bacause ofhis had attitude, 
draws much ofthe novel's humor publicly embarasses Allison and al­
from the stereotyped characteriza­most gets fired from his job. 
tions ofits characters. There is Al­
lison Mapes, the attractive young The ironically funny thing is that 
librarian Fisher meets and begins to during Fisher's "downfall," he is 
date. The two are hopelessly mis­attempting to come to grips with 
matched, but he falls in love with her something real and meaningful in his 
preppie, athletic legs which he fan­life. That journey, which eventually 
tasizes as having "straddled Arabian leads him back to an old friend is tru­
horses, numerous Harvard men and ly a humorous one, one well worth 
daddy's sailboats." Then there is his travelling with him. 
A different kind offriendship 
Indeed, that is the ma~ic ofthis

by Nick Laflamme 
whole book: it presents men who defy the usual ima~e ofthe success­ful man as a loner supported only by
The Best ofFriends 
a loving wife. Michaelis shows that by David Michaelis friendship and love can exist and thrive between two men who are
New York, William Morrow & Co., Inc. 
successful and prominent in their

$14.95 
own niche ofthe world. Men don't 318 pages have to be stoic, unemotional robots; they can have feelin~s and ''vom the start, my thought was made their relationship special. still survive. 
.1.' to .:ell a series ofstories ba..ed Michaelis'stours deforce, though, Overall, The Best ofFriends is a on the recollections of men to are two ofthe longer chapters, one pleasant book. It keeps nudging one whom a close friendship with anoth­aboutjohn F. Kennedy and his best forward, not as a suspenseful hook er man mattered as much as a friend, LeMoyne Billin~s. and the that doesn't slow down enou~h to romance with a woman." Thus other about two naval officers who let you stop, but as a story that keeps opens the preface to The Best of should have been bitter rivals but in­inviting the reader to explore just a Friend-;, the new book by David Mic­stead were close friends and suppor­little bit more. haelis. In this book the author does 
Thursday, October 6, 1983 -page 7 


Advice in poor taste 
by Scott Williams 
How to Suroive Your College Daze 
by G. Brown Boulder, New View Press, 1983 $5.95 
134 pages 

I 
.,
W
ith the barra~e of"How-To" literature that has hit the market durin~ the last decade, one at first glance must wonder why yet 
I
another ofthese books is necessary. After readin~ G. Brown's "How 
I 
I
To Survive Your College Daze"(New View Press; $5.95), it's obvious that such a book is both unnecessary and is frequently insultin~ to the reader's intelli~ence. Brown attempts to take the point ofview of an experienced older sibling as he communicates the "facts" about colle~e in a unique conversational style. 
The book is divided into four sections, each providin~ advice on a particular area ofcollege life. 
Brown first elaborates on "Gettin~ There." Topics discussed un­der this headin~ include the application process, financial aid, urban versus rural settin~s. distance from home, SAT scores, and packing. The guidance offered here could be somewhat helpful, but is cer­tainly nowhere near complete. Atotal oftwenty-nine pa~es are spent 
discussin~ what are some ofthe most important decisions a college­
bound senior will make. The discussion ofschools is thus rather in­
complete at best and it seems that a decent hi~h school counselor I 
would be much more valuable to the potential college freshman I 
than Brown's book. 

Brown's next two sections, "Bein~ There," and "A Giant Slumber I 
I 
Party," seemed to be somewhat more pertinent to the average col­
I. lege freshman than the first section. Herein is found the information I 
I 
that many ~uidance counselors cannot provide, includin~ thou~hts 
on subjects such as roommates, college food, prank.-., alcohol, sex, 
I
the fraternityI sorority system, and a plethora ofothers. Brown's con­
i
versational style and "older sibling approach" to the material become a bit more appropriate in these sections, althou~h he is of­ten tasteless. A typical excerpt from this section demonstrates his style. 
Always have something in you stomach before you start drinking . .. You want to get bombed, but ifyou blow chunks, you want to have something down there instead ofgoing through the dreaded dry heaves. 
Thi'i reviewer saw two basic problems with this section ofthe 
book. First, it seems to exaggerate the extent to which most colle~e 
freshmen become involved in the areas ofdrugs, sex, and alcohol 
abuse. All students do not need a lecture on the use ofspeed, heroin, 
cocaine, quaaludes, painkillers, and mushrooms just to get throu~h 
ters ofeach other. The chapter on 
four years ofcollege. In all, Brown's discussion here reflected a poor
indeed stick to his plan ofaction. Kennedy and Billin~s tells ofa 
opinion ofthe avera~e reader, as well as bein~ in extremely poorMichaelis presents seven "couples" famous relationship that has been 
taste.

who ran~e from captains ofindustry well remembered hy both Billin~s The second problem with this section is that most ofthe valuablewho met as colle~e roommates to and the survivin~ members ofthe 
advice ~i ven could have come from an oldersiblin~ orfriend. For thejohn Belushi and Dan Ackroyd, from Kennedy clan. It benefits ~reatly average college freshman, there is surely some source more ap­
an inventor and a sculptor to a pair from nearly three decades of propriate than Brown's book from which to find out about the col­ofNavy officers who met after serv­anecdotes which Michaelis expertly Ie~e social scene. 
in~ in Vietnam. It is a widely varying draws from. 
The final section covers the topic of"Stayin~ There," includin~book coverin~ seven distinct The chapter on the naval officers, 
commentary on professors, study habits, finances, and cheating.
relationships. Four ofthe seven Leonard Picotte and Michael Ed­A~ain, this section includes some good advice but is basically filledrelationships end in the death ofone wards, is well done for a different with information that can be obtained from other sources, such as aofthe two men, yet that does not put reason. It tells ofa friendship which 
family member or friend who is a recent college graduate or current a damper on the story, for in at least exists where none would be ex­
student.

two ofthe four cases, death serves to pected to exist. As Michaelis often In conclusion, G. Brown's "How To Survive Your College Daze"
brin~ the men closer. stres....es in the chapter, the navy 
In many ways, The Best ofFriends today does not in any way make it provides some valuable information on college in a very readable must have been a difficult hook to easy for ambitious officers to be style. However, the information is at best incomplete and often taste­write since it is often extremely hard friends with eaelhlther. ftoweva, less. Even at the bargain price of$5.95, it would be impossible to to explam why two people are Picotte and Edwards have beaten recommend this book to anyone needing serious advice about col­friends. Nevertheless, Michaelis the odds and become steadfast 
lege. ~enerally does a ~ood job ofdrawin~ friend-; while at the same time risin~ Scott Williams is a sophomore arts and letters student from out from the ~urvivin~ friends what through the ranks. Arnold, Missouri. 

Sports Briefs 
.The International Student Organiza­tton is forming a soccer team. If you are an international student and are interested in playing, sign up at the I.S.O. office, or call 232­7 4 2 3. -The Observer 
The Wind Surfing Club is having a meeting on Saturday, October 8 at 2 p.m. at S t. Joe's Beach. All members are asked to bring proofofinsurance. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's basketball tryouts will start 
Sunday, October 9 from 1-3 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. -
Tbe Observer 
Speakingofsoccer,no one should be lett out. uyou are interested in joining a grad/faculty soccer league, call the Non­Varsity Athletics office (239-6100) and leave your name and num­ber. -Tbe Observer 
Thursday, October 6, 1983 page 8 
Entries for the Domer Six-Mile Run are 
now being accepted at the NVAoffice for the Domer 6-mile run. The 
run is set for October H at lO a.m. T-shirts will he awarded to all finishers and trophies to the first-place finishers in each of six divi­sions. Today is the last day to bring the S2 fee to the NVA office. The Observer 
It's not too late to become a member of the Century Club. Again, just call the NVA office (see above) to get on the newsletter mailing list, or stop by the office in the ACC at Gate 1. ­
The Observer 

The fourth annual running of The Human 
Race is set for 10 a.m. on Saturday, October 15. Tbe 10-kilometer footrace and fun run are sponsored by the Broadway Christian Parish United Methodist Church and the South Bend YMCA. The race is a fund-raising event for both organizations. Registration forms for the race can be obtained at Broadway Christian Parish, the YMCA, the Athlete's Foot in University Park MaU, and the Athletic Annex stores in Scotrsdale Mall and the University Commons. -Tbe Observer 
Netters capture tourney 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team made an impressive showing in winning the 14th annual Irish Fall In­vitational Tennis Tournament last weekend here at the Courtney Courts. 
It was the first time since the tournament began in 1970 that Coac.h Tom Fallon's squad has won back-to-back titles. The Irish, 3-0 for the tournament, had to defeat a tough Southern Illinois team in or· der to claim the tournament victory. 
Southern Illinois, 2-1, finished second, while Illinois State and Wisconsin-Oshkosh, J-2 and 0-3 respectively, rounded out the stand­ings. 
"I think we played very well," Coach FaUon said of his team's per· formance. 
And play very well they did, disposing of Wisconsin-Oshkosh and Illinois State by identical tallies of 9-0 and beating Southern Illinois, 
8-1. 

The Obs~rv~r LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. Th~ Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open from 12:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is J p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by
Classifieds mail Charge is ten ents per seven characters, per day. 
need Pitt or Navy G.A.s call Ted at288 ATTENTIONIIIIWSND REMOTES ARE URBAN PLUNGE sign-ups begin Friday, NOW AVAILABLE FOR ALL OCCA· Oct. 7. Learn first-hand what no Notre
0137

~N_O_T_IC_ES~J ~~W-~_N_TE_D~~~~__TIC_K_ET_S~ 
SIONSI FOR THE LOWEST PRICE Dame class could ever teach. Need 2 or more PITI GA. TIX; Tom at 
AYAIALABLE YOU CAN HAVE A It'a an axpertance ofa lifetime. PROFESSIONAL OJ, ENGINEER AND
3331 or 3332 

The BREEN-MACHINE is fired-up andALL THE MUSIC YOU CAN HANDLEII
2001 I need 6 GA to any home game. call Dan Desperately need Penn State game tick­ready to roll! We are a LEAN MEANTHE FOLLOWING DATES ARE NOW
Thurs& Fri at234-6496 ets. Call Brian at 8795. Need 2 USC GA'S Call BRIAN 6981 FOOTBALL MACHINE!!! 
AVAILABLE: OCTOBER 8,14,15,21­
7,9:30.12PM .. ···················· ....................... ················ KofC Hall New/semiused 8 track tapes, any style HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY HAVE 4 AIR FORCE TICKETS. WANT NOVEMBER 4, 12,17,18 AND DECEM­
HENRY SAYS: COOL ITTAMIE!!! 
$1 . Members Free music. Mark 283-7140 even1ngs. 2845084 TO SWAP FOR PENN ST. CALL PAUL BER 2,3,9,16, 17. TO RESERVE YOUR 1703. 
DATE CALL REGINALD DANIEL AT EDITORIAL CORRECTION: NOTRE
USC-NO tix wanted. Paying most. (312) 283-1153 AFTER 11 P.M. OR AT 239­DAME -WHERE MEN ARE MEN.
7425 TUESDAY FROM 3PM TO 6PM,
PRO-TYPE 12 yrs. experience. Responsible babysitter needed part time 246-4650. HELP WOMEN ARE MEN SHEEP AREAND JIM GALLAGHER AT 239-7425.
Specializing 1n dissertations. days tor infant and three year old in my SCARED. AND DUCKS ARE AFRAID OF manuscripts. theses. and student papers. home just north of campus. Sitter with Need Non-student tickets to NO vs USC A very RICH friend needs Pm GA's. He THArS WSND REMOTE$-THE BEST TAMIE
Call277·5833 for rates. own child ok. Call Jennifer 239-7278 Mon· Call collect. (312) 565-5959 x2013 or is willing to pay serious dollars for the EQUIPMENT ,THE BEST MUSIC, AT Fn. x2233. tickets. Please help by calling David at THE BEST PRICE Ill MANDATORY SAN FRANCISCO BAY
277·1326. 

AREA CLUB MEETING THIS SUNDAYNEED 2 TO USC GAME FOR GOOD You'll bd glad you did NEED 2 USC TIX CALL MARY AT SMC 10-09-83 at 7:00pm in La Fortune Little
We hoped, but the dream dies hard. 4433
OL· DAD .. ! Please call DAVE at 8919 Theater.
There must be 1 drummer out there somewhere In the N.D.·S.M.C. lands. To the wild women·· of third and fourth
NEED 2 USC GAS. CALL JACK AT 277-HELP! NEED USC TIX FOR RICH 
TO: THE FOOTBALL TEAM, WE'LL AL·
We would like to play some techno­5408 RELATIVES. CALL LON AT 8763 floor Holy Cross: Talk 1s cheap-let us be 
WAYS LOVE YOU The Ons1de Kick
dance. If Interested, call Rob at 233-the judges! 
LOST/FOUND 
The cheerleaders 
4260. 

Need 6 GA Pitt. tix. Must be in grps. of 3 or USC TIX NEEDED !! Student or GA-$$ 
were turning
. . . . . . . . .. . . I am the transparent eyeball...
more. 239-5845 Steve. CALL KEVIN x 821 t 4 NOW! WOULD LIKE RIDE TO VATICAN 
triple flips 
HELP. Lost valuable class ring. WILL EXHIBIT SOON; TOM 3331,3332 REALL Y,REALL Y NEED 4(0R 6) TICK­NEED 2 NAVY G.A."S CALL MATI NOW FORMING: The Stephen Lundeen The bands were PAY REWARD.NO QUESTIONS at1462 Fan Club. Attendance at meetings notre­breaking the 
ETS TO PITT GAME!!CALL BILL 1 763 
ASKED. 2876277. HOWIE EN DAD quired nor suggested. sound barrier. 
CINCINNATI!CINCINNATI!CINCINNATI! $$$$ NEED 2 OR 4 TIXS FOR USC The 102,000 fans I Desperately need a ride to Cincinnati I NEED 4-6 USC GAs AND 1 USC STU­HALLOWEEN APPROACHES. roared.
LOST Annotated New Oxford Bible. left GAME. CALL TOOTlE AT 239-7136 
this weekend. Will share usuals. Call DENT TICKET; CALL PAT 1238 
behind in Monday 9/26 at 2:30 p.m. 1n BEWARE THE GREAT PUMPKIN HE IS Football underdog 
DAVE at 1165. 
Room 328 Computer Center/Math Build­NEED 8 GA'S FOR PITT GAME. MUST VERY JEALOUS OF CAPTAIN was meeting 
NEED 2 STUD. TIX TO NAVY. PLEASE
Ing. Please return to office of Lost/Found BE IN PAIRS. CALL KEVIN AT 8636 CRUNCH. football powerhouse. 
CALL DEBBIE 284-4372 
(Administration Building). Thanks Ber­Underdog lost 
RIDE needed to EAST LANSING 
. ············ ......................... . ALL WOMEN AND FEMALE DOMERS
nard Deprez. $1 NEED 4 NAVY GA"$ ·GREG 6863 the toss and had to
Fnday.Oct 7.Piease call David at 1105. 
Help! Need USC tiK, student or GA, Call WHOVE BEEN WANTING AN OLDER kick. Steve at 8638 
MAN." JOHN BURKE TURNS 22 ON Whistle.
LOST LADIES MAROON WALLET GOOD$$ FOR 1 USC GA-GREG 6863 CONTAINING $.DRIVERS ······· FRIDAY AND IS AVAILABLE FOR PER­Roar 
Dan from NJ. This IS Ted. your ride home 
the weekend of the 8th. Ca111n9 1f you NEED USC STUDENT OR GA TIX-CALL 
LICENSE.PHOTOS, OTHER 10. IF still want to go. NEED TWO NAVY GAS CALL BRIAN SONAL B-DAY SURPRISES IN ROOM Boot. 
CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME 234 ALUMNI HALL. DON"T FORGET It was an onside kick! YOUR B-DAY SUIT FROM S ALLEY A strategy usually 
FOUND PLEASE CALL LAURA AT 2989 8656 
Ride wanted to/from Detroit area OCT Need NAVY stud &GA·s x1695 used near the end 
7/9 John 8318 will share costs LOST roll of Film. 135-24exp. 400 ASA RIDE NEEDED TO COLUMBUS, OHIO. of a game. Lost at South dining hall pictures are ir­NEED 4 NAVY TIX.CALL CHRIS AT 1201 WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL rarely at the beg1nning. 
replacable. please call Libby at -3435 Need ride to U of I Champaign Oct. 14-16 HOWIE AT x1765. Fans gulped. 
Piccolo player 
PERSONALS
DESPERATE! Share costs call Fran 2270 Gloom. despair. agony for me. My swallowed h1sLOST: NAVY BLUE BASKIN SPORT NEED 4 NAVY GA"s Call Pete 3114 
JACKET AT PE SYR SAT. NITE IF YOU roomate. Gandhi, is dat1ng, Pammy. a piccolo. HAVE BY MISTAKE PLEASE CALL BOB 
townie. T.V. commentatorHave 1 USC GA. Need 1 Pitt. GA or Stud. 
I HAVE 4 PITT TICKETS, AND I NEED
AT 1441 got hiccups. 
Willing to trade. Call Tracy 277-7232. 
USC GA'S. WILLING TO TRADE TICK· Attn. all Arck1es: We told Spud. the Underdog got ball. 
ETS OR PAY MONEY FOR USC GA'S.
lOST Woman·s gold Se1k0 watch. Lost I NEED 10GA'STOTHE USC GAME. Johnny Cash Smirf. we would not reveal Six plays later. CALL JERRY AFTER 6 AT x1763.
near Grotto. Please call277-3409 his true identity. Stay tuned touchdown!
WILL PAY ANY AMOUNT FOR THESE If you re an underdogTICKETS AND THEY NEED NOT BE TO­DOMER SIX MILE RUN· OCT. 8. 10 a.m. 

FOR SALE 
GIMP OF THE MONTH goes to Laurie and don't want to 
LOST: 1 BLUE BOOKBAG, TAKEN GETHER. PLEASE CALL 1ng And ASK -sign up at NVA-T-shirts and trophies. 
FROM THE SOUTH DINING HALL Oberembt for courage. determination, stay that way. 
FOR DAN. 
MON .OCT. 3 PLEASE RETURN TO and true grit above and beyond the road try the 
Great Science Fiction 
to recovery. CongratulatiOns Laurie!! unexpected for a
BRIAN LEE (X6741) AS SOON AS POS­HELP! Parents will disown us if we don't 
EXOT1C PETS-anMM., llurds, tur111s, quick score.
SIBLE. OR AT LEAST PUT IT BACK IN get them PITT TIX. Call Pat at1068 or 2001 
Thurs & Fri 

THE SOUTH DINING HALL tanlntulu, amphibians, birds, m­Attention all male friends of Jo Jo Chavez: If you·re an underdog.
Jeanne at284-4167 
Sponsored by the K of C 
mala. Largeat Mllctlon In U.S. Mid­Just because she a)calls you; b)eats watch out for wast Raptlll, 1520 Mlahawaka Ava., lunch with you or asks you to lunch; clever dogs. Love. 
FOUND: CROSS pen in LaFortune. See Need two G.A."s tor the Pitt. game. Call 
Shirley at THE OBSERVER office. 232·2095. 2 mi. from N.D. c)sm1les at you: d)asks you to an SYR. Michelle. Janet. Laura. Katie. Shiela.
Kelly 284-4074. 
I LOVE NORTH QUAD shirts $6 On sale 
does not mean that she has blood tests Beatrice, Kristen. Rita, Kelly, Maureen. mNorth Dm1ng Hall Tues. Wed. Thurs din­
FOUND: STOPWATCH AT BURKE For Sale:NEW Wilson Staff irons ... $350 scheduled and the church reserved. (3N Regina) 
I need 3 Navy GAs. Call Theresa 28<4­MEMORIAL GOLF COURSE. CALL 
Call Larry ... 1638 ner. Love. Her concerned female fnends P.S.
5442 

ERIC AT 8192 TO IDENTIFY. Don·t flatter yourselves. Just when I th0119ht I had all tha 
SOUTH QUAD: WHY? Show your pnde
AVAILABLE: 2 USC tix Call (215) 238-answers, they chllnu-f the queatlons.
with an I LOVE NORTH QUAD T -shirt On 
LOST: Red notebook. INTRO to 9052 after 5 pm. HELP!Need 2 USC or 3 PITI BETH-· PULL IT UP!! PULL IT UP!! Juat when I thou;ht I had tk:kata they
sale in North Dining Hall Tues. Wed.
ELECTRICAL NETWORKS. Left in 127 GA"S. Please call JIM at 8736. FLASH ao1c1 them. Juat when I thought my
Thurs at dinner: $6
Neiu Sci on Friday. 9/30 after blowing a dear friends from LA. couldn't come 
WANTED 4-6 GA Tix to each of the
networks test. Since it belongs to my FOR SALE: COMPLETE HOCKEY WORM--NICE HEADBAND!!ZAHM out, aome nice peraon wiH Mil me 4 
GEAR· CCM HELMET BAUER JUNIOR following home games: USC. Pitt and Party down this Friday night. 801 St. AWAITS!! LOWLY 
roommate. he's not too happy either. If G.A.'a to the USC game. PLEASE HELP 
Penn State. Call Tom Hollerbach collect Louis St. It's Jim·s B-Day. so give him a 
anyone finds this useless book, call Bill SUPREME SKATES, SIZE II GLOVES, BY SELUNG ME YOUR nxs · MIC­
at: 312/565·5959 Ext. 2081. kiss.
x1087. PANTS, SHOULDER PADS. SOCKS a KIM-· ...1only had three daiquiris and a HELLE 284-4131. 
GARTER BELT. $50.00 FOR ALL CALL peppermint... well. the first two were pret­
need two Pitt GAs call Bill 8395 Hey. s 21 & 22. your favorite liquors think 
272-7011. ty strong... why is everyone looking at me POPPY· HAPPY B-DAY LUV. THE MIN­
t d. alot of you!!! Black Velvet & Brandy 
funny?..:· NESOTA TWINS NEED 3or 4 GAs for ANY HOME Game.
COUPON BOOKLETS. ONLY 19.95. VALUED OVER Jennifer has pink shortie pajamas. And MOMO-15 DAYS UNTIL HOME · HANG
COULD MEAN EMPLOYMENT. Call BIERGARTEN $1.000.00.RESTAURANTS. PLACES she eats cap·n Crunch. too. Her ON-LUV. THE BETTER HALF 
STEVE at 232-0550. BIERGARTEN BIERGARTEN
Of ENTERTAINMENT.ETC. roommate wonders dbout her a lot Could

FOR RENT 

Thurs. Oct. 6
PROCEEDS TO CHILDREN WITH CAN· rt be she·s from California? Desperately need USC tickets I Student or
NEED 2 G.A. S FOR NAVY. WILL PAY SMC9pm-1 am
CER/LEUKEMIA CALL NANCY GA. Call 284-5502 
$$$CALL TOM 1423 21 10 Reqwed
7842638. I need PITT GA's. Call David at 277· 1326 Enterta1n your guests with M1ddle Easternwanted 2 roomates for N.D. apts. call HELP! Need 2 PITT GAs. Call Sue at · Fla1r or send a Belly Gram to someone2349116 or 1101 
72 VW BUG.rbtt eng. B/0. Leslie x2710 8050 OKTQBERFEST IS HERE Good luck Kates on your Sk1n you love. Ph. 291·8215 
... . .. . .............. .
·····························\················ 
The Observer Thursday, October 6, 1983 -page 9 


Clark Kellogg, who bad a sensational rookie season u•itb the NBA 's Indiana Pacers last _year, will be among the assembled talent at this Satur-
Crown Royal 750ML 
10.49 
Popov Vodka 1.75L 
7.86 
E &J Brandy 

750ML5.99 

NOUVELLE_ LIQUEUR· 
51 0 9 9 
DEL/ClOt'S I 

7,50 MI. 
A delightful blend of cognac & yogurt 
~ .75L. 

BARCARDI $1Q99
RUM••••• 

1.75 L. 

---,~,--~-USHER'S $1Q99 
I 
SCOTCH. 


1.75 L 

EARLY $999 
TIMES••••• 
1.75L. 

CANADIAN $107 7 
MIST •••• 
Fik Phow 

day's Logan Benefit Game between the Pacers and Detroit Pistons at the Notre Dame ACC. 
Bal1entlne 24 cans______ '"_ 4.99 Hamms 24 cans______ .. _ _ _ _ 5.49 
MILLER 24 cans _ _ _ _. ____ 7.49 Buaweiser 7.49 Lowenbrau M • ........8.99 
Bud light QUARTS 8.49 case 
Budweiser 8.9o 
OLD MILWAUKEE QUARTS 6.90 MILLER QUARTS 8.95-. 

KEGS Old Style 27 99 
% Barrel_ _ _ • 
B:atz ~ r 
~0:!!~~ _. 26.99 
BUdv. BarreL __ 22.00 
.750ML 

ANDRE $259 
CHAMPAGNE. I 
3 LITER 
~GALLO 
$449

PREMIUM•••••••
. 
.1.5 LITER $388
INGLENOOK ••••• 
.MOUTON CADET •$459 
1.5 LITER 
9

FOPPIANO • • • • • • • $19 
Low Everyday IM4
_...__..~?s;;:o 277-6805 Check Our Low, ~ 
Prices -·· · 

Ticket Distribution 
Monday All seniors 
Tuesday Juniors and all undergraduate students in the ninth semester or higher 
Wednesday Sophomores. graduate students. and law students 
Thursday Freshmen and any student who missed his/her appropriate day 
All tickets are being distributed at Gate 3 of the ACC from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

Make the connection 
~CZ?L7o~1J@1J 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
• t .. ;·':. • • 
.. . . 

Ji· 
--~ ·.· 
.:.-_,' ::;:· ~-\·-l~~--... 
-' ,-~ .• 

. --~iJ;Wt1i~~.~,. ·:;_~~' ···· 
~~ 

The Observer Thursday, October 6, 1983-page 10 
Logan Center Benefit Basketball Game 
~. INDIAN~~ACERS 
(\. ~ ~ 
Student Union 

DE1ROITPISTONS with Kelly Tripucka & Bill Lambeer Logan Center wants to say thanks to NDtSMC students Half price tickets available at S.U. Record Store 
$3 lower arena $1.50 bleacher se~ts Saturday,Oct.8 AC~ 2pmAll proceeds go to Lo~an Center 
... Sox 
continued from page 12 
Todd Cruz, who later would turn in several fielding gems to keep the game close, let this one get by him, though, as the speedy Law raced home uncontested. 
The White Sox scored without a hit in the sixth. McGregor walked Paciorek leading off. Luzinski then hit a squibber toward first, and Mur­ray let it get under his glove for an error as Paciorek raced to third. Ron Kittle's doubleplay grounder scored Paciorek. 
Dempsey led offthe bottom ofthe sixth with the third hit off Hoyt but then was erased -almost literally -on a foreceout. Bumbry hit a grounder to second. Dempsey was forced out easily, but rookie shortstop Scott Fletcher's sidewind­ing throw hit Dempsey in the hand as he was protecting his face. 
Perhaps suffering from the rain delay, McGregor's outing took yet another perilous turn inthe seventh, when he left in favor of Sammy Stewart. 
He walked Vance Law to start the inning, then balked him to second. Law was sacrificed to third. When McGregor threw a pitch in the dirt past catcher Dempsey, Law tried to score. But Dempsey scrambled after the ball, threw a strike to McGregor and Law was out. 
McGregor then walkedJulio Cruz, 

and  Rudy  Law  doubled,  chasing  
McGregor  and  sending  Cruz  to  
third.  But  Stewart  fanned  Fisk  

looking, and McGregor had exited after giving up just one earned run. He had been bested at his own game -finesse and precision. 
L.A. 4, Phila. 1 

.LOS ANGELES -Pedro Guerrero drilled a two-out, two-run triple in the fifth inning, breaking a tie and pushing the Los Angeles Dodgers to a 4-l victory in last night's second game of the National League Cham­pionship Series. 
The Los Angeles triumph tied the best-of-five pennant playoff at 1-1. Game Three is scheduled for tomor­row in Philadelphia with Charles Hudson starting for the Phillies against the Dodgers' Bob Welch. 
Guerrero's shot rewarded the pitching of Fernando Valenzuela, who scattered seven hits before Tom Niedenfuer took over in the ninth. John Denny, a 19-game win­ner during the regular season, was the loser. 
Actually, it was Valenzt,~ela who got the winning rally started, opening the fifth with a drive that sent Garry Maddox to the center field wall. Maddox, who made a cru­cial error in the fourth game of the 1978 playoff between these teams, caught the ball for an instant but . then dropped it as he fell on the warning track. Valenzuela steamed into third base on the error. 
Just when it looked like the rally would fizzle, Dusty Baker worked Denny for a walk, bringing up Guer­rero. Steve Carlton had pitched around the Dodgers' cleanup hitter in Tuesday night's opener. But Den­ny couldnt escape. On a 2-2 pitch, Guerrero sent a shot into right field that scooted past Sixto Lezcano for a triple, scoring Brock and Baker with earned runs and putting Los Angeles in control. 

501 E. Sample 
233-2590 10°/o Discount with university ID 
• RH CHARl>ING 
& STARTING SYSTEM CHECI< 

"Social Concerns Film Series Co-sponsored by Student Government (Social Concems)and the Center for Social Concerns 

Oct. 6-7-8•••...•......... 6:30 & 10:00 Engineering Au d ....•.......••. $1.00 





EASY RIDER 
• 








Thursday, October 6, 1983 -page 11 
Blootn County Berke Breathed Campus 

~IR 
I


Fate 
WHlRl 'R£ YR GtJtN'? 
I 
OV£( TD TH£ HUDOt.l 

WH.4T'S LOI~ 
To rtcr SOH£ LIIC 
AND S~t;a.S. 

I



Mellish 

I ~t+'J:JGHr RuG£~ ~·r 11f':> 1N HANA\1 
~.,_, Uf f~f~o.~ !"'~ '-t~rt-t 

~---(,(lll~( f~( 11~~~N~ i>IN[APh£~ f-0(
I· ~ANL f:' Pll~ J~ t(,<.' 
f o .,,. [.,(. V\). 

:•If f''~ illl flii'JI1 L·~tp.TAU ltf'~ ~IIVIN4" 


t 'DoN'T KNIJW AIJDUr 
DT'HU ltltar, liAr M" TN& HUDDLE IT! S/IU1al Sl'lfWII CUT IN ON~ INCH P/Ear KoLl.£0 IN .1D ·lfUL£ r£/IM &tlfX AND Sf'R4WIJ£KK'f 
OH M~ GilD I ID f{ll[,Cll[;; AIL 
ABOJT THAT! I' ~CPf HV 
PA\SPORr "A"J'r EX'•(lP. RUAX Wf ·n 
Photius 
ONI VDU MEAN .4 
Mii/JI.£·BI4.f,d(. 
I 

Dave & Dave 
UCfllE NT I 'it I',._., ASTf P AHEAD Of 


ACROSS 29 Degree tor 1 Bridge bid an attorney 5 George 30 Household or Irwin animal 
9 Imperial 33 Used 14 Pay up 37 Head of 15 Lizard: France comb. form 38 Unpolished 16 Drawout 39 Suffix with 17 Operatic aster or 
prince planet 18 S.A. monkey 40 Related to 19 Bogsdown hearing 20 Brass 41 Learning by 
22 Certain repetition global 42-double me£suremer.t (baseball 
24 NYclty hit) 26 Cheats 44 Lamb's dam 27 Canvas 45 Scrooglan 
sheet, for word short 46 Tlreout 

The Daily Crossw-ord 
10/6/83

1983 Tribune Comp~ny Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
10/6/83 

47 "Paddle 
your own-" 49 Complaints 53 Fullness 57 Musical 
study 58 Danger 59 Dimension 61 Encourage 
earnestly 
62-ear and out the other 
63 Beige 64 Cherished 65 Like Marcti 
weather 66 Headliner 67 Miscalcu­
lates 

DOWN 1 American patriot 
2 Backerof , a play 3 Weather 
word 4 Bondage 5 Fastplane 6 Greet 7 Vehicles 8 Prunellke 9 Prompt 
10 Corrects manuscripts 11 Hindu teacher 12 Made a hole In one 
•
3 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, IBM PC Fun­damentals, 11 5 ComputingCenter 

•3:30 
p.m. -Holocaust Film Series, "Warsaw Ghetto," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SMC Depart­ment ofModem Languages 

•3:45 
p.m. -Tennis, SMC vs. Indiana U. Ft. Wayne, Angela Outdoor Tennis Courts 

•4 
p.m. -Radiation Lab Seminar, "Dye Loaded Polymer Electrodes in Photoelectrochemical Con­version of Solar Energy," Dr. Prashant V. Kamat, Rad. Lab. Conference Theatre 

•6:30 
p.m. -Social Concerns Film, "Reds," Engineering Auditorium, $1 

•7 
and 9:30p.m. and 12 a.m. -Film, "2001: A Space Odessy," K of C Hall, Sponsored by Knights ofColumbus, S 1 

•7 
p.m. -Information Meeting, Scholarships and job Information for students of Japanese Studies, Father George Minamiki, Sponsored by College of Arts and Letters , LaFortune Little Theatre 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Present State ofJewish 

•9 
p.m.-Zahm Coffeehouse, Bob Corrigan and Paul McLean, Zahm Party Room 


Christian-Opportunities,"  Rev.  John  T.  
Pawlikowski,  and  Rabbi  Marc  Eli  Saperstein,  
Library Auditorium  


TV Tonight . 
6p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
6:30p.m. 16 MASH 22 Family Feud 28 Joker's Wild 34 Straight Talk 
7p.m. 16 Baseball American West 22 Magnum. PI 28 Trauma Center 34 The Ascent of Man 
8p.m. 22 Simon and Simon 28 9 to 5 34 Jazz in America 
9p.m. 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Matters of Life and Death 
10 p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
!0:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Hart to Hart/McMillan and Wife 28 ABC News Nightline 
Far Side 




13-majeste 21 Obliterate 23 -the lily 25 Craft 28 Oldtlme 
shelters for the needy 

30 Inca land 31 Latin abbr. 32 Prefix with 
scope or 

vision 33 Field 34 Black bird 35 Adorable 36 "0 Sole -" 37 Depravity 40 Idolize 42 Glove: Fr. 43 Egg­45 Pearl of 
song 47 Actor Eastwood 48 Proclama· 
tlon 50 More chaste 51 Poe 52 Menot 
vision 53 Buy -In 
a poke 54 Cafe card 55 Paid 
athletes 56 Pound the poet 60 Continental abbr. 


Sports 
Thursday, October 6, 1983-page 12 
Improving Saint Mary's team disposes ofhapless Bethel 
Bethel College, The Belles have established them­
By MICHELE MCKEEVER a weak opponent, did not challenge the team to play its selves as a come-from-behind squad.
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's volleyoall team best. But as they face more serious con­defeated Bethel College in three The team faces the University of tenders i:hey must open '.itrong and straight games 15-13, 1 5-5, and 15-Michigan at Dearborn, a more for­gain a lead. 10 before a disappointingly small midable opponent, at 6 p.m. tomor­Individual work wi.h the players, crowd in Angela AtWetic Facility row at the Angela Athletic Facility. according to Goralski, is helping the Tuesday night. Coach Goralski ts confident in the Belles' cause greatl}. Hopefully, this 
Strong aggressive play from cap­team's ability and feels that the stiff young and improving squad will be tain Loret Haney and Ann Boutten competition will improve the team's able to rise to the occasion tomor­enabled the team to quickly dispose performance. row night. of its opponent. Consistent serving by Haney, Miki Matemowski, and 
Frosh Biafore earns 
Molly Baker contributed to the vic­tory in the second game. Bethel rallied in the third game, 
starting tennis spot
pushing to a 7-2 lead. The Belles, however, quickly regained their 
ByJERRY MELIA development. It was she who in­
momentum and showed there was 
Sports Writer spired Joanne to take up the spon 
no cause for worry, outscoring Bet­
and she taught her a great deal of 
hel by ten to clinch the victory. 
Like most freshmen, JoAnne what she knows. 
While the team was playing closer 
Biafore is not yet very well known. JoAnne played high school tennis 
as a unit, and serving well, Coach 
But people who follow Notre Dame at Wooster High School in Wooster,
Brian Goralski was not pleased with 
women's tennis know that not only Ohio. Her record in high school was 
his team's performance. He feels the 
is Joanne a member of the varsity a more than impressive 109-11, and 
team is lacking intensity on the 
tennis team, but she also starts at the she won many titles in her career. 
coun and needs to show a stronger 
sixth singles position. To start on a Obviously, joAnne came to Notre 
desire to win. 

varsity spon at the college level Da.-ne with excellent credentials. 
However, Goralski also feels that 
takes a great deal of talent, deter­JoAnne chose to attend Notre mination, and hard work. Seeing Dame for many reasons, including JoAnne play, one can tell that she its great academic reputation, its possesses all of these qualities and present tradition, and its proximity 
more. to her home in Ohio. The main Coach Sharon Petro had a great reason, however, that JoAnne 
Sox hop on Orioles; LA triumphs 
Associated Press the game-winning RBI with a single, Landrum. But Hoyt then got Eddie 
surprise in store when the semester selected Notre Dame was "the
BALTIMORE-LaMarr Hoyt won and he scored an unearned run in th Murray to ground into a force out to 
began. Prior to this time, Petro had friendliness of the people." This a duel of finesse and precision with sixth without benefit ofa hit. end the game. 
never seen JoAnne grip a racquet. greatly impressed her on her visit to
Scott McGregor, pitching a five­Bearded and barrel-bellied, Hoyt This was Hoyt's ft.rst postseason 
Joanne, however, expressed her in-the campus last year.
hitter that carried the Chicago retired the first seven batters he appearance, whereas McGregor was White Sox to a 2-1 victory last night faced. Constantly working ahead of a veteran of the Orioles' 1979 over the Baltimore Orioles in Game the hitters, Hoyt used a moving playoffteam. 
Bell returning to line-up
One of the American League fastball and decent breaking ball to McGregor yielded six hits, one a In case you have not already heard, Irish tailback Greg Bell has
playoffs. confound one of baseball's most fluke, but three other hits came at a made the fastest recovery from a broken ankle in history. Actually, 
The meeting ofthese two pitchers potent lineups. Nothing got past the most inopponune time -one right 
the ankle that Bell supposedly broke in the Miami game a couple of 
was billed ali a matchup of a master infield until Cruz's hit, but the hard­after the other in the third inning, years ago, was re-examined, and, early this week, it was announced
ofcontrol, Hoyt, and a crafty, tricky est hit ball off Hoyt was probably the with two out. 
that the ankle was not actually broken.
veteran, McGregor. one hit two Orioles later. The White Sox threatened in the 
Bell may see some action in the next couple ofweeks, but, unless
The right-hander Hoyt, 24-10 and With two out and Cruz still at first, second when Greg Luzinski hit a 
his services are badly needed, he probably will be rested until the
the winningest pitcher in baseball leadoff hitter Al Bumbry hit a long high pop down the right field line to Southern Cal game on October 22.
the past two seasons, won this time. flyball to left-center field. White Sox lead off. The ball fell among first He struck out only four batters, but center fielder Rudy Law raced to the baseman Eddie Murray, second 
terest in tennis to Petro in the form played a major role in her tennis 
he walked not a soul. He had walked wall and gathered it in. And the baseman Rich Dauer and right fiel­JoAnne is making the transition
of letters. She was invited to try out 
only 31 batters in 260 2-3 innings Orioles scoring threat had expired. der Ford, who almost missed the 
from high school to college tennisfor the team, and earned a singles
•during the regular season, and he After a 42-minute rain delay in the start with a bad right foot. Murray's rather well. She feels that the big dif­
spot. was on hi5. form. He gave up three middle of the fourth inning, Hoyt throw to shonstop Ripken, covering ferences between the two levels of
To this point, Petro is verypleased
singles, to Todd Cruz, Rick Dempsey retook the mound. The clouds second, was in time but in the din. play are the competition and the
with JoAnne's play. "She is eager to 
and Cal Ripken Jr., and two doubles broke, the sun came out, and the big When R!pken couldn't handle the necessity ofa more complete game.
learn and very teachable," Petro says -by Ken Singleton and Dan Ford. right-hander, who extended his per­throw, Luzinski had a double. She means that all the aspects of a
ofher talented freshman. 
Left-bander McGregor, the sonal winning streak to 14 games, McGregor got out ofthat one, but he person's tennis game -serve, vol­Orioles top winner this year with an owned the hill. was not so lucky in the third inning. These qualities helpJoAnne fit in ley, ground strokes, etc. -must be 18-7 record, had a slightly more ad­The second game in the best-of­Law staned the rally with a clean 
well with the program established strong to win consistently in col­venturous, 6 2-3-inning outing, five series will be played tonight single up the mddle, past 
by Petro. Petro feelsJoAnne's poten­lege. She felt she could get away while benefitting from some good again in Baltimore, with Mike McGregor's glove. Carlton Fisk tial is very good and if she has a with a lot ofmistakes in high school, defense. He escaped peril in the Flanagan the staner for the Orioles followed with a bloop single to left weakness, it's that she stays at the but at the college level she knows second inning, then stingily gave up and Floyd Bannister for Chicago. that sent Law to second, and 
baseline too much. She also says that that this will not be the case. a run in the third. The Orioles scored their run m Paciorek came to bat. JoAnne should rush the net more Joanne doesn't sense any pressure
He hit a blazing one-hopper
Tom Paciorek, the White Sox's 36-the ninth ining when Ford doubled 
and be more aggressive. on the court. Instead, she tries to 
toward third. Orioles third baseman
year-old first baseman who hit .400 to left center with two out and Rip­
JoAnne began playing tennis at play the best tennis she can by giving against the Orioles this season, got ken singled home pinch runner Tito see so~ page 8 the age of thineen. Her mother it all she has. 
PlayoffBound? 
Colts back on winning track 
Associated Press falo, Miami and the New Yorkjets in and No. 1 draft choice john Elway. the American Conference East. Sud­But Kush, working with the NFL's 
BALTIMORE -It's amazing what denly, visions ofBenjones, the Sack youngest team -an average age of three victories in five games and a Pack and the division-winning 24.2 years -has developed a team share of first place can do for some Balimore teams ofthe mid-1970s ap­which is 12 points from an unbeaten people. peared before the Colts' fans. season this year (it lost 17-10 to 
Take Nesby Glasgow, a long­"We just keep improving each Denver and 28-23 to Buffalo). suffering defensive back for the week," said second-year quaner­Still, the former Arizona State previously suffering Baltimore back Mike Pagel. "We're getting to head coach refuses to take credit for Colts. know each other better, that's all." the rebinh ofthe Colts, who posted 
"As far as I'm concerned, we could The keys to the Colts' recent a 19-53-1 mark between 1978 and sneak into the playoffs," said Glas­success are simple: the league's top 1982. "This is still a people game; it's gow, a five-year National Football kicking game, a strong defense and still the players doing it," he said. League veteran. "I think we're good an opponunistic offense .featuring "I've just got to remind them what enough to be there." the NFL's second-best rushing at­they need to do." 
"I'm not saying we'll go to the tack. Now, about those playoffs ... Super Bowl -but we're good And then there's Frank Kush, the "It's an old adage and sounds enough to be respected throughout oft-maligned coach who came here corny, but that's the fanhest thing the league." last year. Kush, much to the chagrin from ourplayers' minds," Kush said. 
Such comments used to provoke ofsome players, stressed condition­And, realistically assessing the laughter throughout the NFL. After ing and fundamentals. Those who Colts' improbable dream, Kush all, the Colts won just twice in 1981 disagreed with his philosophies added: "The thing to empha<>ize is 
file Phow 

and not at all last season. were offered two options: "My way that we're not out of the woods by The Baltimore Colts are flying bigh after their strong start tbis 
But Sunday's 34-31 victory over or the highway." :my means. We have a longway to go season, sitting atop the AFC East Division in a four-u·a}' tie. But the Cincinnati Bengals lifted the Many took the highway, including before we can be thinking or dream­playoffs are the farthest thing from their minds, savs He'"ad Coach Colts into a four-way tie with Buf-All-Pro wide rel·eiver Roger Carr ing ofthe playoffs." Frank Kush. See story• a/leftfor more details. ­





