Bindery-page 7 

VOL XVIll, NO.9 the indepemknt ~tutknt new~paper ~en ing notre Jame and saint mary's THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER H, 19H."> 
Flat policy rate issued for book purchases by ROTC students 
By GRETCHEN PICHLER 
Neu•s Staff 
The practin· of inllating itemi/ed vouchers which are submilted and hllkd to the Armv hy ROTC stu· dents has prornptnl HOTC otlkials to ISMre a tlat rate policy for the pur­chase of hooks and supplies. 
As part of their scholarships. ROTC stutlt-nts han· their hooks and school supplit:s paid for by ROTC. ln the past. ROTC students tilled out vouchers which authorized them to purchast· the necessary textbooks and supplies at tht· bookstore, leaving the hill for the Army. 
According to :\lajor Robert ·Mcll­h;trgie, assistant professor of Military Science, some students with the same -;cht·dules were spending varying amounts of ROTC money for the same materials. This reason prompted the policy change. 
"We were assuming that students were honest ... it was not controlled 
as wdl as it should have been," said :\1dlhargie. 
Based upon their major, students will now lx issued a cht·ck for a flat· rare amount to purchase books. supplie.~ and other materiab the stu dent needs. The hooks "·ill he<:ome the personal property of the student at the end oftht· semester. 
The llat-rate check amou.nts per semeMer are: humanities majors. Sll l; business majors. S 1-11; English majors, S I ";9; physical sctence majors. S l ';9; social studies maiors, s1·11: and medical and analytical science majors, S 1-11. 
:\lcllhargie said that he is inquir· ing about the possibility ofstarting a book loan library similar to the sys· tem the Navy uses at present. Navy students would be issued used books to be returned after the semester to the central library where the books would he borrowed. 

The Observer/Tom Brown 
Lights, basketball, action! Within two u•eeks, hoop addicts will be able to get theirfix anytime ofday or night when the new light­ing system at the outdoorStepan Center courts becomes operation­al. 
Basketball courts at Stepan to be lighted 
By CINDY BOYLE 
StaffReporter 
The outdoor basketball courts at the Stepan Center will be lighted in response to complaints of overcrowding on the indoor Stepan courts. 
The lights will be operational within two weeks, according to 
Notre Dame Physical Plant Director Donald Dedrick. 
Student Body President Brian Callaghan said that overcrowding of 
Stepan's indoor courts was a primary reason for the in~tallation of 
the new lights. "Student government asked for the lights because we 
had requests for them from the guys who wanted to play basketball," 
Callaghan said. 
The decision to install the lights was made last May, and the instal­
lation contract was given to the Colip Electrical Company. 
·Callaghan reported that the lights and wiring are already in place. 
"We're just waiting for the poles," he said. 
An on/off and timing switch will be installed with the lighting system, according to Dedrick. "The amount of time the lights will stay on (each night) is up to security or the Student Affairs Office," said Dedrick. The times have not been decided. 

Freshman Kristin Nigro and Senior Mike Peter­Big Brotber-l.i'l Sisterpicnic outside Keemmllall son en_qage in the /iuetv art ofuml'ersatimt at/he yes/erda)' t(/lernoon. 
HPC unhapp)' about party proposal; regt1lations not clear 
By MIKE KRISKO 
Staff" Reporter 
Tht;!ie is growing discontent by Hall President Council members over a poorly worded party proposal initiated at the tlnal meeting of last year's HPC meeting. 
At the April 26 meeting, the coun­cil unanimously approved a plan to improve the quality of parties hy t charging a S l admission fee for all women entering parties in men's dorm party rooms, and for all men entering parties in the designated rooms of women's dorms. 
According to HPC Chairman Mike Carlin, the purpose ofthe proposal is to "prevent the party drifters. make the parties het;er by having more money to spend on t(>od and non­alcoholic beverages, and to get women's donils to throw more parties." 
In g<:neral, the concept ofimprov­ing parties has been well accepted. Badin flail President Dorothy David agreed with the new plan. "From a woman's point of view, I wouldn't mind paying the dollar ft:e or hosting more parties in order to take the burden otfofmen's dorms," she ~aid. 
<irace Hall President Peter DiC. hiara thought the proposal could ust· some improvement. "I agree with the ideJ behind the proposal but the wort ding could be better," he said. The pn>posal was rushed and should have been discussed further bd(>re being ~pproved, said DiChiara. 
St. Ed's Hall President (iary Strick­land, who originally introduced the plan to the council, said the proposal lacks substance. "It was an end-of­the-year proposal that was hurried through. We rushed this one he­cause we wanted the rectors to vote right away on this so it could be in­troduced to the fre~hmen now," said Strickland. 
''We didn't want to h>re<: a chang<: in policy on th<: freshmen after they get us<:d to a certain routine," he said. The plan needs the rectors' ap· proval before it can become ef. fcctive. 
At last night's III'C meeting. discussion revealnl that some of thl· presidents ~vert not aware of all the l:niversity's party regulation~ for the dorms. After ~aying that everyon<: should know th<: regulations, Strick· land said, "At least one p<:rson didn't. know the rules." 
When Strickland was asked if tlte llniversity party rule~ wt·re mad<: known to the newly-elected hall presid<:nts ai th<: April 26 meeting, he said, "The n:gulation~ ddinitely should have h<:en read last year" and 
see HPC page 4 
Mass to mark lOth anniversary of Chilean cot1p; violence continues 
Editor's note: This is the first of a three part series e,wmtining Chile and the effects ofthe coup ten years ago in u•hicb Augosto Pinochet rose to power. 
ByVIC SCIULLI 
Assistant Neu•s Editor 
The violence and bloodshed con· tinue in Chile, just as they have since the oyerthrow of President Salvadnr Allende almost ten years .ago. 
Thousands of people have been killed. wounded or exiled since Augosto Pinochet established military dictatorship. Once the old· est democracy in South America, Chile has experienced the suspen­sion of its constitution and with it, the human ri~hts ofits people. 
The problems facing this South 
American nation, however, have not 
been ignored here at Notre Dame 
A Mass will be celebrated at 10 
tonight in Breen-Phillips' chapel to 
mark the lOth anniversary of the 
jZhilean coup. 
Sponsored by the Community for 
the International Lay Apostolate and the Student Organization of Latin America, organizers hope that the Mass and an informal discussion group on Sunday will raise student awareness of the situation in Chile. father Tim Scully. who has spent the last four year in Chile, hopes stu· dents will "show a spirit ofsolidarity with ib people." 
Scully believes there is "a need l(>r sharing in prayer an expre!-.sion <)f suffering for the Chilean people. It would he inconceivable to let the event (the lOth anniversary of the coup) pass without expression," said the Notre Dame graduate. 
Isabel Dodoso, a Chilean graduate student here and t(>rmer coor­dinator of Zonal Activities for the Vicarial of Solidarity for the Arch­bishop ofSantiago, will deliver what she calls "a testimony" at the Mass. In her testimony, Dodoso will dis· cuss the connection she sees he· tween the Feast of the Birth of the Virgin Mary (which is being celebrated today in the Church) and the "rt·hirth of the Chilean people." 
Though the new regime im· mediately and etkctivcly eliminated all its oppposition, the Catholic church has remained a powerful force in the country. Chileans now possess a much greater ~en~e of hope than th<:y have had ~ince the coup. Many ~ee this strong hope as an important factor in the rebuilding of the nation·~ democracy. 
Scully is skeptical about the futur<:, however. "There is no futur<: for Chile right now," Scull) said. "The situation will continue to deteriorate li>r ~ome month~ to come. The protests will not con­tinu<: to gain momentum indefinite· ly." Prior to the coup, Chile had he<:n the oldest democracy in South America. "There was an absolute respect for human rights, very similar to any Western democracy," 
Scully said. 
Bd(>re the coup, Allende began speeding up the process of nationalizing Chile's large industries started by his predecessors. By 
see CHILE page 5 
• 
The Observer Thursday, September 8, 1983 -page 2 

Soviet Foreign Minister Andrt.'i A. <iromyko 
dedarnl ~T~terda\ hi~ govnnment was pnfcctly justified in shoot­Ill).: down a ~outh Korean jumbo jd, charging the plane violated ...,acrnl" ~ovict border~ whik on ".~pedal duty" for Washington. <.romyko and ~t·nt·tary ofStatt· <ieorge P Shullz accused each other of I~ ing about the plane -which carrkd 26l) people. including 61 Anwrican~ -when it was downed by a jet tighter over the Soviet island of ~akhalin last Thursday. The two arc to meet face·to-face in '\1adrid today. "l'afsd10od~ have ht·en continuous, and juggling of tht· facts is too mild a word for the way in which the Soviet Union has n·~pondnl to thi~ Korean plane shootdown," Shultz told reporters aher< .romyko's spt'l'ch to the ~'>-nation Conference on Security and Coopt-ration in Europe. -AP 
Two policemen, two ambulance attcn· 
dants and two doctors have btTn charged in connection with the heating dt·:Hh of an I H-year-old Solidarity supporter in Warsaw, the oflkial PAP nt·ws agt·ncy rt·portcd Wednesday. The death of <irzcgorz Pr1.cmyk on May l·t touched off a wave of anti-police outrage in Warsaw, and his May I') funeral drew 20,000 mourners. Tht· Warsaw prosenuor identified those charged only hy their t1rst narnt·s and did not indicate exactly what crimes they would he tried for. PAP said. The report said that police acted correctly in detaining Przemyk and several companions on May 12 in Warsaw's old town, charging that "they were in a state which indicated previous drink­ing and bd1aved strangely." The death aroused indignation in part lx-ctuse on May .~. Przemk's mothet -Solidarity supporter Barbara Sadowska -was beaten during a break-in hy plainclothes police at a Hom;tn Catholic relief center in a convent adjoining St. Martin's dlllrdl in Warsaw. Tht: authorities have acknowledged that plaindothesmt·n took part in the break-in, hut have not publicly ex· plainnl the incident dt·spite a sharp protest from the church. -AP 
President Reagan, who has grown 
noticeably hard of hearing in rt•cent years, wore a hearing aid in his rightt·ar yestcnlay when he appe:tred hdore a group ofbusiness and education kadt·rs at the White House to announce a new program to c.:omhat adult illiteracy. It apparently w;ts the tirst time Reagan, 72, wort· tht· small. wireless device in public. Spokesman Larry Speakes said Hcagan was fitted h>r it in a visit to a hearing specialist in Califor­nia l;tst month and wort· it in private meetings with his advisers last wn·kt·nd. Spt·akes said he had no details on the extent of Reagan's ht·aring lo~s. the medicalexpl;mation for it or the type of hearing aid lkagan wa~ using. Tht· president's wik. however, was quick to cxprt·ss hn approv;tl. Sht.'ila Tate, Nancy Reagan's spokeswoman, quotnltht· t1rst lady as saying. "I think it's great. Now I can whisper ~WtTt nothings in hi~ car. and ht·'ll he:tr me." -AP 
Politics overshadows almost everything in 
Poland. t•vcn the '1b~ Polonia beauty contest, which last night in Warsaw named Lidia Wasiak of Szcz<:cin as the tlrst East<:rn bloc t·rHrant in the Mb~ World contl·st since the Soviet-led invasion of Czt·t·ho:o;lovakia in I 96H. Miss Wasiak is a blonde, 21-year-old medi­t•al stutknt. Tht· .\1b~ l'olonia tinab, staged Monday through yester­day, combined bikini-dad beauties and political humor-the latter onn: common on Polish stages hut largely hanned since th<: Decem­ll<:'r I 9H I dec.:lar;ttion of martial law. It was the tirst beauty contest in 
l'olaml for mort: than two decades. "Every 2'> years, Poland chooses its quet:n. I don't know whether it is a longing ti.>r monarchy or ... wlwther Poles are dissatisfied." said master-of-ceremonies Wowo Bielicki. R<:gional t·ompc:tirions, which began early this summer, narrownl the: original tidd of ~-U c:ntrants to ~I. Votes cast hy the audknc<: sdt:ctt:d 20 ofthose-more than halfofthem blondes­for tina I rt·vit:w by a pant:! of 1I male judges last night. -AP 
A Mass will be t•t:lebrated tonight at 10 in Breen-Phillips' chapt·i to mark tht· lOth anniVt·rsary of the Chilean coup. Isabel l>odoso. a Chilean graduate studl·nt at Notre Dame and the former coordinator li!r the Vicarial of Solidarity for the Archbishop of San· 1iago will dclin·r a testimony. All arc invited to attend. -The Ob­
sert'er 
An auction of bicycles and other miscellaneous propt·rty t4.>Und on campus will he held tonight at..,. at Gate II, Notre Dame Stadium. The Security Department will conduct the sale. ­
1b(• Obsen•er 
Weather· . , I · 
'I . . 
Sunny today with the high in the mid HOs. <:it·;tr tonight with rhc low in the low bOs..\lost I~ ~unny and warmer l<>lllorrow lltgh., in I he Uj)Jll'f HO ro low 90s. -AP 
A Tale ofJimmy and Jim 
EDINBURGH. Scotland -l{obert the Bruce may live in the hearts of20 million native·born Scotsmen around the world, hut for those t1ve million still living in Scot­land, national heroes are as distant as Bruce's victory over the English at Bannockburn in 1314. 
What m;ttters today b that 2S to 3S perc<:nt of all Scottish men and women are out of work. In raw figures, that amounts to about one million unemployed people, a quarter million of whom are unemployed youths in Glasgow and Edinburgh. To ti.>rget their problems, they turn to rock music, alcohol, and cynicism. 
At a new wave disco in Edinburgh, I met one youth namedJimmy, who in his personal history and attitudes, symholizes the plight of th<: young Scots. He didn't stand out in the crowd -just sat silently in the crook of a corner booth and stared at the people coming in and going out of the bar. 
Jimmy looked like any other normal Edinburgh 
adult: cotton tee­
Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Thursday 

wears no earrings and has no tattoo, you couldn't tell the difference between the two, except ti.>r their ac­cents-because Jim isn't Scottish, he's American. 
Jim saved for three years to come to Scotland. But he's not here as a tourist. He's here to play the snar<: drum in a bagpipe hand which is participating in tive competitions, including the World's Championships. 
Jim's finally here -hut only t after making a great per­sonal sacrifice -his job. Jim's former job at a large Chicago department store netted him more frustration 
than income. He
young shirt, tight jeans, an earring in each ear, and a grime­black and dried blood· colort·d tattoo on his forearm which read, "Mum." 
Jimmy usually stays at this disco till dawn, and then sleeps until 4 p.m. If he gets bored with the music, he goes home earlier. Jimmy used to he a baker, but I8 months ago, he was "made redundant," a· British eup­hemism for being laid off. 
He's tried to tind work as a baker around Edinburgh but with no luck. While it would he unfair to say that Jimmy couldn't get any job, the British welfare system 

net originally worked 3..,._ S hours a week in the store's warehouse, but last spring, his weekly hours were reduced to 30. 
Jim still had to go in tive days a week and still made line more than minimum wage after taxes. After he deducted a monthly train hill of S80, there wasn't much left of his check. That is, there wasn't much left un­til he came to Scotland. 
A former boss, who knew Jim was his best worker, had said it would be okay for Jim to take off three weeks to go to Scotland. Jim's new boss, however, said Jim couldn't 
doesn't exactly encourage an unemployed and un­married 18-year-old to go out and find a job. 
When starting salaries average only 5,000 to 6,000 pounds (57,500 to S9,000) a year, one' need not be a mathematical genius to realize that a yearly welfare al­lowance of3,600 pounds ( S5,400) for doing nothing is quite a bargain. 
A flat costs Jimmy 160 of his monthly 300-pound check, so there's not too much money for food or enter­tainnl<:'nt. And as far as free entertainment goes, Jimmy long ago exhausted his visits to the zoo and trips to the museum. Bored and frustrated, he blames his plight on Margaret Thatcher's conservative Tory Party and quips, "The only good Tory is a lavatory." 
ThoughJimmy doesn't know it, an unemployed com­patriot gyrates on a small makeshift dance tloor in a smoke-congested cavern 30 feet away. The .dancer's given-name is also James, but he goes hy Jim. And ex­cept for their different nicknames and the fact that Jim leave. When jim left in early August, to fulfill his I 0­year-old dream, he wasn't politely "made redundant," he was tired. 
Unlike Jimmy,Jim doesn't really blame conservatives for his getting tired, though he reads theSun-Times and not the Chicago Tribune. Instead, Jim blames the in­sensitive corporate system which denied him the op­portunities which should be accorded a hard worker. 
So while neitherJimmy norJim have a secure future, they do have until4 a.m. to dance, to drink and to forget. And somehow, that's what matters most right now. 
Observer note..________, 
The Observeris always looking for neu• talent. if you are interested in newspaper writing or ·newspaper produaion, stop up at The Observer office on the ]rd floor of the LaFortune Student 
Center. 
_The_Ohs.erYer_ 
Comjlf).(//lon J::tlitor.............................Tom Cf)nlfJt>sillon Assisltllll.................... <:arole 1.J'jJI!Sf!ller:..·.... ...................................... Kevin .''•leu•s t'tlltor ........................................... Anne 
Cof>J' t'tlitor ........................................ Cecilia .\jmrts Copr l:'ditor ............ Mike ;mel Man· , 
Edifnrittls Lt~rout ................................... Ken 
f'ellfUres l.t~l'rJUI.......... . ........ Mary 
\D Oar l:'dltor. .. .. D<~ve 
Ad /Je.<lgn .... ..................................... l.aura 
Photographer... .. ........................ Tom 
(iuest A.ppetlranL·es ........ Mark, \'h.:. Small 
"Toni~hl. lonight. won't he jusl an) 
ni~hl 
The Ob..rver (USPS 598 920) is 
published Monday through Frtday 
except durtng exam and vacatton 
penods The Observer 1S published 
by the students of Notre Dame and 
Sa1nt Marys College Sutlscnpt<ons 
may be purchased for $30 per year 
t$15 per semester) by wnt~ng The Ob­
server, P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. In· 
d<ana 46556 
The Obser'\'er <S a member of the 
Assoc •a led Press All reproduction 
"Qhtsare reserved 

WHITE SOX 
vs. 
ANGELS 
Friday Night, Sept. 9 
I 
$15 Ticket includes: bus ride game tic:ket ~ refreshments 

Tickets Available At S. U. Record Store 
~------------j 
3  USED RECORDS  
25 Percent Discount  ~  
with this ad. offer gooGl through 9/17/83. Collectible Records LWE & Cedar Mishawaka, IN HOURS: Tues through FRi. 5pm-8pm  I t I  
Sat. noon-4pm  

I I I I 
The Observer Thursday, September 8, 1983-page 3 
Fulbright Scholarship meeting  1  D~ance lessons to be  
tonight in O'Shaughnessy Hall  offered in La Fortune  
I ByJOHN MENNELL  En:ryone is invited to participate 

Special to the Obsen•er 
year. A few scholarships provide in­Crt·ative and performing artists I Seu•sSfi(ff in the two-hour lesson~. The initial 
ternational travel only or a stipend arc not required to have a bachelor's ksson is frt'C. Subsequent lessons 
An informational meeting for stu­dents interested if) the Fulbright Scholarships will be held at '; p.m. today in Room 110 O'ShaughnesS)'. 
The Fulbright Scholarships. sponsored by the Fulbright Program and by foreign governments, univer­sities. and private dor10rs, offers ti.Jreign study oppo t rtunities for qualitkd graduare studenrs. The 198·-H-l'; competition for, the ap· proximately 6~0 awards which are available for study programs in over ""0 countries will close on Oct. 31. 
:'Ilost ofthe grants olfered provide round-trip transportation, tuition and maintenance for one academic intended as a partial grant-in-aid. 
Applicants must he U.S. citizens at the time of application: must generally hold a bachelor's dq~ree or its equivalent before the grant goes into effect: and, in most cases, should bt:' protlcient in the ianguagt:' of the host coum.ry. Except for cer­tain spcdlk awards, candidates are not required to hold a Ph.D. at the time of application. Candidates for 198-f-85 are ineligible for grants to a country if they have been doing graduatt:' work or conducting research in that country for six months or more during the 
academic year 198:S-84. 
degrt:'e, hut must have four years of professional study or equivalt:'nt t:'X­perience. Social work applicant~ 
must have at least two years of profession:~! experience after the \laster of Social Work uegree. Can­uidates in medicine must have a doc­torate at the time ofapplication. 
Application f(mns and further information for students currently enrolled at ;\lotre Dame may be ob­tained from the Fulbright Program Adviser, Prof Vera B. Protlt. whost:' 
office is located in G-1 04 Memorial 
Li?rary . The d~adline for Jllling ap-
Can you walk? Well. if vou c.m. Fran De!\larko says she c:m teach you how to danct·. De!\larko will be 
offering lessons in the LaFortune Ballroom e\Try :\1onday night at ­beginning Sept. 12. 
De:VIarko. a career dance ll:achcr. has trainnl instructors for tht: Ar­thur · '\lurray Dann· StLidios in Chicagn for morl· than I 2 vcars. I kr 
-
studl·nts took fiyc tlrst pla.._·l· aw.1rds while competing against dancers from 25 stuuios in a rect:'nt Illinois 
State Dance Competition. 
cost S.~ and ~tudcnh pay for each lesson thn attend. 
Dc'\larko"s dann· class was of­fcrl·d at Notre Dame in 1•)--1. Ll's­sons" ere also held in !he LaFortunt· Ballroom. !'\early 900 Notre Darn~· :md Saint \lary·s stuuents attended that y~:ar. ;Kcording to Dt:\brko. 
D.mcing b an exciting way to meet new friends. she said. "For 
1 
t H>st: who do not know how to dance. this is an excdknt oppor­tnnity to learn For others. it is a -• · 
goou way to rehnc some rusty steps... 
...--------------.,
I WQt 1Knig!Jf.6 nftit£Q!astlt I
pllcatl()ns on thts campus is oct.'· 
Squabble over beer cooler property I•.;..~~we;~~;:::.~:ack Haircut, Shamp??' I 
heating up at Bridget McGuire's 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Managing Editor 
The situation at Five Points isn't getting any cooler. The owners of Bridoet McGuire's
,.., Filling Station found the door to their beer cooler blocked by a large 
red carbonic gas (C02) tank Tues­
uay afternoon. 
The tank was placed there by Phil­
lip Slatt, the owner oftwo businesses 
located next to Bridget's. · Slatt 
claims the cooler is on his property. 
Slatt threatened to move the tank in front of the cooler several days ago. In an Observer interview Sun­day, Slatt said he intendt:'d to have a local engineering tlrm survey the land Tuesday before he moved the cooler. 
The survey was delayed, accord­ing to Slalt, so he decided to rely on his own measurements. Slatt, the owner of Corby Fabric Care Center and Approved Safety and Security Co., is a licensed engineer. 
State Rep. B. Patrick Bauer, co­owner of Bridget's, is seeking legal advice. "He (Slatt) said he had a sur­vey when this started. Now sudden­ly he has taken over (the land) in a vigilante manner without proot~" said Bauer. 
"This matter had been tenatively resolved," said Bauer. "Our attor­neys had worked out a solution and apparently he didn't listen to his at­torney," said Bauer. 
"I would like to avoid a lawsuit," said Bauer. "You're talking about inches of land. If you go to court, 
,
you're talking about thousands of dollars." 
Shtt said of the attorneys, "lun­derstand they had a meeting a week ago, but I haven't heard anything." 
"Survey and fence it" is how Sian describes his plans for the property. He says the survey has been delayed 
becau~e of scheduling problems with the engineering tlrm. 
The neighbors have not ap­proached each other about sharing the cost of a survey. "You don't negotiate with the Russians," said Sian. 
Teresa Bauer, manager and co­owner ofthe bar, claims Slatt dented Bridget's cooler with the crane he used to moved the tank. 
. 
Slatt demes that he damaged .the cooler and clatms the seal on his tank may have been damaged when the tank was pushed aside yesterday. 
Beer deliveries were being received yesterday "with great diftlculty," according to Patrick Bauer. 
,;There's more than Mr. Slatt in­volved," believes Patrick Bauer. "I think there is a group behind him prodding him to do these things." 
The Bauers say their relationship with Slatt was once very friendly. "He testitled before the Board of 
Zoning Appeals and said he was wil­ling to share parking as we had for years," according to Patrick Bauer. 
VAN LINES! 
gets you off campus this Friday & Saturday, Dining or just Getting Away. Departs from the Main Circle, Grotto, & 

SMC Holy Cross. 
Hourly trips from 6pm on Friday and 4pm on Saturday. $.50 round trip. Pay as you board 
r--woRLo-sAZAAR~----, 
I BACK-TO-SCHOOL I 
~~~PING LlgJ SPECIAL! l 
' ! ~~.o;l2 5 /0off all regularly priced I rlf~iu.tJ ...wl. ·b'!Jm:;> ,merchandise in store with this coupon. I f" lL-'f"tl.& ~~ ~"' Books. tuition. parking fees, notebooks­~-Kt.Jd ~&~ '~ __' the list of student bac_k·t?-scho'?l expenses is I ·'-~ , endless but your budget 1sn t. That s·why World j;a.ttlltt r_u;.wlA ~' ;~ · Bazaar offers you a money-stretching 25% off all I 
,_____,.,. -, 
-_ c ~.'k f~otU---~ -~ -~.rM<L.t.U--=---=-:=-_-~ . _-P'_·-r;...,--IlL.~-_-~--' . ~· 
, merchandise in the store. -Broaden your buying power and your aesthetics w1th great 25% savings on furn1ture. accessones and 
I 
gifts galore to beautify your abode...all at direct import prices. 
I I 
valid through October 15, 1983. 
~~-VISA 
must be presented. Not valid on sale merchandise. 
L'.""-"-'-~1 --­
I •.."~ andstudm" Blow Dry, !.;~~dlttonl
I N I!;4533 Terrace Lane, S.B. 
Acro·ss from Martin's on St. Ad.23 QW $8.50 WITH COUPON
1 ITues. Wed, Sat 8:30. 5:30 •
I Haircut only $6 c:~:N
Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30 ~.;272·0312 277 ·1691 IIOffer oppllea to MALEp.trons only, I He~rmuotbewoolleddeyolcut ... ~-------------­

Make the connection ~ryry..~1HID 1J 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
.......... 
The Observer Thursday, September 8, 1983-page 4 
Blood test may detect 
Saint Mary's 
• • .HPC 
plans new 
early stages of AIDS 
dentsJames H.oemcr was un:tvailahlc 
continuedfrom page I 
BOSTON ( AJ>) -Ablood test that marker for AIDS," said Dr. James J.
for comment. 
activities 
that they "wiJII)e n:ad nt:xt tim(:." David said that people in her 
measures a rare tiJrm of interferon Goedert of the National Cancer In­
Onl~· a lew council memhcrs had dorm arc undecided about the 
may help doctor~ spot seemingly stitute in Bethesda, Md. 
ByGRETCHEN HOLLAND 
heahhy people who have early There is no known cure for AIDS.
copie~ ot la~l ~·mc~tcr's proposal. proposal. "Even my social commis· 
News Staff
stagL·s of AIDS hut no outward bur Goedert said the test could be
"In f(JUr months" time we've forgot· sionc:r came: to me and asked if spe· 
ten how the proposal went," David ci:tl arrangements had to he made in 
symptoms of the devastating disor· used to screen blood donors and 
A "Five Hall Dance:" planned for
der, researchers say. help prevent the spread of the
~aid. order to collect a fee at an upcoming 
Sept. 24 was one of the first events 
Their study tiwnd that months disease. The researchers found the
ThL·re is still omfusion cum:t·rn· hall party," said David. 
scheduled hy the new Saint Mary's
ing the current statu~ of the Though the status of the proposal 
before the appearance of clear signs unusual kind of interferon in three 
Programming Committee which
proposal. Rc(:tors held a meeting last i), unknown. Rector Committee 
of acquired immune deficiency vtcums of hemophilia who 
held its first session la..-;t night.
\fond:.r to di!><."U11s tht· i!>osuc:. but did Chairman father Thoma~ King said, 
syndrome, some victims have high developed AID~. Two previously 
The dance is being sponsored by
nm reveal what wa~ said. The: rcc· "I personally think the: proposal is :1 
blood levels ofa protein called acid· published studies discovered it in 
the five residence halls on Saint 
tors did not reach :. decision. workahlc idc:a." lie: said that a com· 
labile alph;t interferon. homosexuals with the disorder. 
Mary's campus: Regina, McCandless, 
"I would say that if an inflividual Interferon is a natural virus-killing
l'r. John Van Wolvlc:ar, vice prcsi· mitcc:(: of rc:L·tors will meet with a 
Holy Cross, l.eMans and Augusta.
dL·Ill ofstudent affairs, said he would delegation from the UJ>C in a closed 
had high levels of acid-labile. inter· chemical that is produced in tiny 
The informal event is free to all Saint 
lUll otter a comment until the rec­session on Sept. I.-\. King issued no 
kron on several occasions, that amounts b)· cells throughout the 
Mary's and Notre Dame students, 
wrs rcad1 :1 decision. Dean of Stu· further comments. 
would probably he a very specific body. 
with or without dates. 
,.. 
The Sealor"lnfonaal" Weekend Ia near!! Sept. 23-25 
The Package: $48 2 nights at Hotel Continental & Sat. night 
LOUIE's FAMILY RESTAURANT 
I Ill! ISSF" 
Thursday Night is LADIES NIGHT present your student I D for $2 off on a Large Pizza 
FRIDAY-SATURDAY NIGHT SPECIALS $1.50 off a Large Pizza $1.00 off a Medium Pizza 


dinnerI party or, separately , $35 2 nights Hotel; $16 dinner I party; $4 party alone Registration: Sept. 6-812-1:30 pm & 6-8 pm Lafortune Lobby Also sign up for tickets for: Second City, Cubs Game, Great America, Vatican Exhibit, buses to Chicago and more! 
Al.-o Rellieter at SMC at HCC Sept. 1.9.12 10 a•.5 ·­
MasterCard 
9AM -10 PM 
BEER BY THE CASE 
49 
~~ MILLER LITE
Ulr 24 LoosE 
11....~1 MICHELOB BUDWEISER 
24 LOOSE 
HEINEKEN 
4/6 NR LaBatt's Canadian case.. 1 0

1199 
Molson Golden case..... . 

Jack Daniels 750  799  
Tan~ueray Gin 750  899  
Wild Turkey 101 750  g99  
Fighting Irish  
Bourbon ltr.  &99  

BUDWEISER 
KEGS 
Yz BARREL
2999 
PLUS DEPOSIT 
APPROXIMATELY 200 SERYIISS Miller keg, V2 b ••..•...• 32.50 QUARTS 
699
Old Milwaukee •....•. case Budweiser .•..•...... case. 899 
I LIQUOR 
Seagrams Seven 
Crown 1so 499 Kings Cellar Vod. 1.1s 799 Kings Cellar Gin 1.75 899 Everclear Grain 
Alchohol 190 proof 750 &99 Southern Comfort 750 599 Bailey's Irish Cree:-Jl 750 1Ogli Crown R<3yal 750 1099 
Stolychn~ya 
Vodka f.o 750 899 Bacardi Rum 750 499 
I 
The dance will be held on the terrace ofthe Haggar College Center and the snack bar will serve non· alcoholic beverages. The time of the dance has nor heen determined )'Ct. 
The committee also discussed ac· tivitics for next week's dedication of Haggar College Center. Several bands will perform this Saturday on Haggar Field from 2:30·7:30 p.m. Haggar Field is the lawn area west of the center. Dedication Week ac· tivities will end on Friday, Sept. 16, with Irish Puh Night, feaiUring Jim Coor and Friends. The hand will per· form on the terrace. 
"Participation in the events is es· sential to the success of Dedication Week," said Lee Ann Franks. chair· 
woman  of the programming com·  
mittee.  
The:  new  Programming  

Committee. a suhcommittee of the Board ofGovernance was formed to plan campu~ events. The hoard will continue to deal with student government issues. The 1H-memher 
commiuee includes hall and classlvice-presidents. 
CARLO 
ROSSI 
4UTER 
INGLENOOK 
349 
ALMADEN 
MOUNTAIN 349 
WINES 
1.5 LITER 
CODOIIIIU 
BLANC de BLANC4 9 9 
CHAMPAGNE 
7501L 
ZONIN 199
LAMBRUSCO 
750ML 
Bacardi Rum 151 750  899  
Aranas Tequila 750  499  
H.W. Schapps 750  499  
Gflbeys Gin 1.1s  799 .  
Gllbeys Vodka 1.1s  999  


-----------------.--------------------------------­
• • . Chile 
·' 
.. '
The Observer 
continuedfrom page 1 
nationalizing these industri_es, Al­lende would he return-ing their con­trol to the Chilean people. 
The Nixon administration 'made the decision to intervene in the nationalization process, pumping millions of dollars into government opposition of the Allende regime to protect American interests. 
Nixon also feared Allende's relationship with Moscow would grow and that Chile could become "another Cuba." If Chile fell under Marxist control, Nixon feared that surrounding nations may eventually fall in a dominoe effect and that the southern cone of South America would eventually become a bed of Marxism. 
After the junta took power, mini­sters of state were tortured and exiled and mass public tortures became common. Opposition mem­bers were placed in concentration camps. 
Over the years there was a gradual institutionalizaton of violence in the country. An article added to the con­stitution eliminated democracy by giving the government the power to suspend all the other articles if na-
Three killed in explosion inChile 
Associated Press 
SANTIAGO, Chile Three people died last night in a house that exploded and caught tire during a shootout hetween its occupants and memhers of Chile's secret police, the government news agency ORBE reported. 
The shootout occurred at a time of political tension over an opposition-led "Day of National Protest" planned for today against President Augusto Pinochet's military government. 
ORI:lE said the bodies of two men ;md ;1 woman were found in the wreckage of the house in the upper­class neighborhood of Las t Condes, and a fourth person escaped. Other details of the incident were not clear. 
The agency said the gunmen were suspects in the Aug. 30 assassination of retired army Gen. Carol Urzua, governor of the Santiago Metropolitan Region, in the same part ofthe city. The government has blamed that killing on leftist guerril­las. 
In preparation for today's protest -the fifth in as many months -the government declared a school holiday starting at noon yesterday and urged citizens to organize to defend their neighhorhoods in case ofviolence. 
Three jets 
land safely 
after problems 
Associated Press 
Three jetliners, including one carrying sportscaster Howard Cosell, landed safely at airports in New York and Omaha, Neb., on yes­terday after developing engine or electrical problems, officials said. No one was injured. 
A Northwest Airlines jet f;arrying 87 people, including Cosell, landed safely at New York's La Guardia Air­por( when the pilot ret ported two of the 1plane's -three engines had lost some power after takeoff, officials said 
~eanwhile, · a Trans World Airlines plane carrying 75 people andl a Frontier Airlines jet with 25 aboard both experienced electrical problems and landed less than two hours apart at Eppley Airfield in Omaha, according to ~irport _aut~o.r­itics. 
... "' 
. ·...··..·-~ ~·:·. ·4~~:;;.... ·--~· . ~ ~; ·, 
"' •r ,• • ••. • • . •
l';>~~);:..:~·-;·.,~ ~ ..•. .:: .:.,-.:. ; "" 
...:. 
Thursday, September 8, 1983-page 5 

---~-------------------------,
WHO:  GRADUA·TE  
WOMEN  
WHA·T:  SUPPOR·T'  
GROUP  
WHEN:  MONDAYS,  
BEGINNING SEP.T'. 12  
6:15-8 pm  
WHERE:  WILSON  
COMMONS  
CON-TA.C·T!  SUAN STEIBE  
JANE PI·TZ  Coons. & Psych. Ser.  
•Gra~. ·Townhouses  Center  

(239-5368) (239-7336)
L----------------------------­
LEE'S BBQ TONIGHT Thursday, Sept. 8. 
:$2 pitchers all night 
21 I D Required. 
Plants& Rola!.rS S4LEI 
10perantoff on all plants 
Thursday· SabJrday 
Aowers.C~& 
Boutinefrsavailable 
\ : 
---------------------,I ''. ~ 
.,. '•.
Plants& Rowers 
I ·1 •• ~ ::.:
I i
AD outC1D111P011
rtame I to l"eeldve 
-.u~~~--------------I ciiDDUIItiDI J~cldrms I tiiiB'chwlng l»hone I for 2r........ 
-~,~~-------------------1~<....~ · 10pnmtoffon all plants 1 5qlta••Q 
.... -----I 

-·----------------------~--------1 
. . ·:. :~~-~~P:. : 
: .. ~' .;"/"' 
....... 
tiona! security was ii1. jeopardy. 
This past spring, however, the voice of opposition b~came strong­er. Copper union workers called for a one-day strike as a sign of protest. The government, however, mobilized forces, surrounded the villages and: the the strike was averted through the threat offorce. 
On May 11, a national day of protest was called as a non-violent means to express. discontent with the government. Many students did not attend school. Citizens were advised not to leave their homes but instead to beat pots and pans loudly as a sign of protest. Although the government was skeptical, the protest was considered a tremen­dous success. 
Another national day of protest was-called on June 14. Though marked by more, violence than the first one, it was even more success­ful. Although the military was upset, they did not use extreme force to wipe out the protest. Scully referred to this day as "the beginning of the craziness of the government." 
Repression of the protest became violent in August. On August 11, 180,000 government troops were called to keep the protest under control. At least thirty-one people were killed, the majority innocent slum residents, and hundreds of others wounded by police tire. 
Pinochet recently tired his inte­rior minister and replaced him with Sergio Onofre Jarpa, a layman. Only minor improvements have been made, such as the lifting of a curfew and the return ofexiles to Chile. The .government has allowed a national day of protest today sponsored by the Democratic Alliance hut has for­bidden all other forms of pro1cst, including the banging of pots and 
pans. 

Trio to the Vatican Exhibit 
The Department of Art, Art History and Design will be sponsoring a trip to the Art Institute of Chicago on September 29 or October 4 (depending on availability of tickets) to see the The Vatican Collections: The Papacy and Art. 
The total cost for the trip, including transportation &admission to the exhibit will be $15. Payment in full must be made at the Art Department office, 132 O'Shaugnessey, by 5:00pm, Monday, September 12. 
What Does the Student Union Record Store Have in Store for Me 
CHEAPER PR/CES...s,,_U-JZ•ffli.•tprim! MOST CURRENTSINGLES-!'6.sorcompurt·ut 18.99/ist) CUT-OUTS...sz.9s.ss.9s GREATSELECTION... Sprm,.tl't!n, f·o,elher". St«•e~e 
Nick!i, Chnstopher Cross, Moody Blues, Par Benutur, Journey and 
many, mu11y more... 
A L SO. . . recurdni and blank rapes 0 l'atlable. 
CONVEN I EJVCE. .. The NDSU Record Stm·e ts Jo,uted on I he Matn Floor ofLaFortune. Plus-orderedalbums toke only one wnk to urm•e! 

:. 
DISCOVER 
. :; CILA 
:
·:.: 
ORIENTATION WEEKEND 
·: 
Swimmlag, Boating, Reflection at Lake McLure Friday, Sept. 9 ·Saturday, Sept. 10 
Register at CSC Building by Thurs., 9/8 Registration Fee: $8.00 Transportation leaves ND Ubrary Circle at 6pm & SMC Holy Cross at 6:15'pm ' Returns Saturday at 8 pm. Questions? More lnfoi'IDation? 
, can Tim Marph.y 3657 (NO) ~-~. SheBa La•b 284-5101(SMC) ' 
~ \., ;. •t.'....-~ ...~ ,. .... : .. ' : .... ••·•' ...,-t.•..# ·. ~ ~ -·. -4 .. ' .• ' . .
Jl. • 
·.........\. 
.."·, ~ 
:: 
:·: 
.. 
View~_O_l_·_n_t_________
r_hu-rs-da-y,_se-pt-em-b-er-8,_19_8_3-pa-ge-6 
Flight 007 and nuclear politics 
Thl· "Kon·an Air Lint· Massacre" is thl: con­sequl'nlT of the Soviet !inion's paranoid fear of bonkr violations -;1 kar which docs not vindicatl." them from assuming rl:sponsibility and .mswcring to the world for tht·ir actions. 
Michael L. Brennan 
And so it goes 
President Hcagan has responded with lon·~ight b~ limiting countermt·asure; to till' arl·a ol civil avi;llion. ;md hy not turning the inl'idl·nt into soldy ;I l .S.·Sovil't conflict. l'or­tunatd). Hl';lgan hl:l'lkd thl· advkT of Sl'l'rl·tan Shultz and did not imposl." sanctions that would "gl·t thl: hl:;llllines h1r a day or two... onI\· to spend the nl·xt six months trying 
to undo them. 
The challenge now is to avoid letting the tragic incident have a lasting and detrimental impact upon the relationship, and particularly on arms control efforts. 
In his address to the nation, Reagan cc:nsurcd the Soviet Union and rightly denounced the act of "barbarism", but made the mistake of using the cvc:nt to plug his "peace through strength" defense stance, and to try to win congressional support for the MX missile program. The unfortunate deaths of l6<J civilians do not suddenly justify the Prcsi­tknt's desire for the 10-warhead MX, which the Scowcroft Commission proved was usc· less in revealing the absurdity of the "window of vulnerability". 
Dl:spitc President Reagan's proclaimed 
commitment to arm's control, the downing of 
Korean Flight "1 will undoubtedly have at least short term repercussions on the Intermediate-range Nuclear Force Talks (INF) that resumed in Geneva on Tuesday. The tragic episode has overshadowed the Soviet's two·wcek old offer to dismantle their SS-20 arsenal in Europe down to 162 missiles, equal to the combined French and British forces. 
Realizing that he will be coming under increasing pressure from West European governments to reach an agreement, Reagan exercised reason and foresight in ignoring the suggestion from right-wing supporters that the U.S. withdraw from the negotiations. But the talks have suffered a setback nonetheless. The respective negotiators, Paul Nitze and Yuli Kvitsinsky. will have to work at putting the incident behind them, as they try to t1nd a 
compromise solution before the scheduled 
deployment of Pershing II missiles in West 
Germany this December. 
Hopefully, the unjustified massacre will not 
push the already deplorable state of U.S.­
Sovict relations into a dismal abyss. In the 
opinion of Dr. George Brinkly, Director of the 
Soviet and East European Studies program, the 
event itself should have "little or no lasting 
effect on the rdationship." It would be unfor· 
tunatc if we allow this tragic incident to fuel 
hostilities with so much at stake in our super­
power relationship with the USSR. As 
Lawrence Eaglcburger, Undersecretary of 
State for Political Affairs, warned the day after 
the plane's disappearance, we arc still on the 
same planet as the Soviets. 
Michael Brennan is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters.from llu.f.falo, New York. 
Sports and the university-a conflict of interests? 
1'1/i/fll' .1 /1()/1' '/ 111.1 is /lw firs/ of <1 11/'ti'/Jtll'l '''~'"'·' <'.\'t/111111111,~ /lw role of !Jig lillie lllb· /1'11< ·' 111 llw nJ/II•,I.!,t' 1'11/'II'U/11111'111. llll't'<' ll,r, IHTil llllll'll dr'l·u,slon l't'Cerll h ;rhrnrt lilt· t'\l't''·'t'.' ol our IJ;Ition·.~ collq.:t· ath· 
Mike Skelly 
Back again 
ll'tl< program' Till' tale~ ol illlll'rate gr;ldll.ltl·~. ht1hes to ,ltlllctl''· and gnwrall\ poor lwh;11 1111' bv n>,l<"ll<'' and athll·tll' dlrt'l'· tor' nl·t·dn't he rcpc;ltl'll. lor most olu~ arc at 1l'.1st 1 .1gucl\ larml<ar 11 ith them. 
\ ,1rrou' ITmcdll'' ha1 l' lll'cn proposed to UHinll'r tltl''l' l''-l't'"l'~. lllliS( flTelllfl till''< .:\t\·, Hull' tH. "hich "'"certain mmimum .1chit'l t'llll'llt stand;1nh lor freshman athletl''· r\lthough thi' 'l'l'llls like a ~l'n,ihle enougll proposal. one wonders ho\\ Wl' got into th1s business olminunum stand.1rds lor :nllktcs in thl' lir~t placl' The vt·q fact that a national org;uu:uion oluniver.~itie.~ i., .~etllng standard.~ lor athletes suggc.:sts that athletes are ;..onll'· how dilll·n·nt Irom ordinan students 
lllg tlllll' colkge athlete;.,, namcl1 basketball and toot hall planTs. arc a group quite distinct from other ~tudents The processes by which thn are admittl'd, the wa1 till'\' spend their I Ifill'. the means ol financing tlwir t·ducations. and even the coursl·s of study thq general!\ pur~lll' set them apart from the typical stu­dent The fact that athktes are a distinct and diltlTl'lll group of students should make us wonder about the rdationship between ath­letics and the university. 
lnhl'rl·nt in the classical ideal of education is the cont'l'pl that nll'ntal dt'l'l'lopml'llt ~hould lw accompanied h) phvsical develop· ment. !'rom this idea came intra and tht·n m­ten:ollcgiate sports. 
Colleges quid.:ly realiznl th:ll winning team;., meant more gate receipts and clo;.,cr alumni l(rllowings. rl."sulting 111 more richl) endowed cotkr;.,. Sdwlarhips wcre added .111d gradually today';., system cvolvnl. 
l·nder this system major college athletic;., Sl'f\'l' as a ti1cal point for alumni support and often as a re\'l'nue gcuerator. \\'inning is dear· lv very important. It inllucnce;.. gate receipts and has a positin· rdationship with the amount of ~upport many ;llumni are 1villing to give. Universities arc in the t·ntcrtainml·nt business, and a quite lucrative one at that. 
Well. so what' Is it such a very big deal that most of our Americari univl."rsitie~ hal'l' ath­
letic program.~ that serve as revenue generating arm~ irf thl· school' It seem' that it is. There are soml· ITrv basic contradictions between what a university b supposed to lw 
and  thl·  prcs~t  structure  of major collegt·  
sports.  
The llrst  probll'm  is  a  radical  departurt·  

from the classical idea ofwell-roundl'llmcntal and phy;.,ical dcvdopment. Instead the univcr sity ha;., a group ol students many of whom must spend thirl) or more hours a week in training lor their rc.pectin· sporh. Nothing is wrong with thi;., sort ol rl·gimen per sc: however, the que;.,~ion is, sh,;uld it takl· placc.: in the context of the univt·rsity and can stKh studl:nt·athletes reasonably bt· cxpt·cted to 
pt:rform adequately in the classroom'' 
Mike Skell)' is a senior in the College ofArts and l.ellers from Roanoake, Virxinia. 
P. 0. BoxQ  SJlWJS.''H[LP 'IJ.\tlitD GJFER. MUST B£ CLASSY GUY DWOTt.D TO tv\r\INTt\INING THt. DIGNI~IED IMA.GE a: OUR NJJIO.t\1. P:>.STit<\t''  
ND behind the times? lkar hlitor, present Notre Dame community is perhaps Altn rl·ading till' "lnsidl· Tul·sday" column not the anarchroniMic university <:enter that  
ol ~l·ptl·mlwr 6, I am com(ll'llnl to write and some students obviously think it is. COill'Ur with author \largarl·t !'osmol· that NnTrthell."ss. despite the rather con· Not rl· D;ulll' is most l'l'rlainl\' not "ten years servative political and economic kanings of hl·himl t hl· t iml·s... Just bl·cause paril·tal thl· ND student body during the last several regula! 1011.~. an cxdusil'd~· mall' l;uuulq ~Tars. most students have remained almost 'l'l'\'ll'l', '111gk ~l·xnl li1·ing arrangenll'nts. r;1dically livid about antiquated Dulac dogma rl·,t ril'l it >11~ against beer J..t·gs in stulknt conn·rning visiting hours, alcohol policy, and dorm~. and other suda policil'S halT long lwen stmknt sodal arrangements. !knee, in n·moiTd or at least ;lml·ndnl from otlwr prl·s rl'S(K'Cl to tht· ND socialmillit·u, one can simp· 11grou' unil'ersit\ ·~ lists of rules and regula II look at eithn thl' spacious and socially at· lions( 1ndud111g-gasp'-Catholil' onl·s like tractive \'antkrhilt l'nivnsity student center llo~ton ( .olft'gl· ;and ( •l'Orget0\\'11 l niversit~· ). in Nash1·ilk. or at an enjm·abk c;rn·lrcc keg in dol·~n·t llll';ln I h;1t :\otrl· Dame is "ten ) t·ars a llan·anll 'niiTrsity residt·ncc hall, or simply bl'hind thl' tlml's'" at a quiet and informal co-ed g;llhering at l:OS Thl' l(Ul'sllon hanlh sel'ms debatable r\.:\1. in a l'nil'nsity of Illinois dorm room to Coi\l·n that. tod;l\. with our countr) conclude absolutely that Notre Dame is not (ll'l'Ciriousl) riding till' wa\'l·s ol a shak~ indenl"tcn years behind the times" but more l'l'Onomll' rt't'OHTI. mam ND stulknts halT like twenty or even thirty distressful(\ sunJ..l·n into a consl·rv;ltil'l· politi· cal and l't'onomic mold which probably ac­coulll~ h1r \liss l'osmot·'s claim that thl' Peter A (;raham  

-Obset:ver== EditoriaJ Board 
Edilor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic Managing Edilor ............. Margaret Fosmoe 8usiness Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare Execulive Edilor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller. , ..................... Alex Szilvas News Edilor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . ............ , . Chris Owen News EdiiOr . ................. Mark Worscheh Composilion Manager . ........ Suzanne La Croix 
Saint Mary's Edilor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulalion Manager . ............. Mark Miotto Fea/Ui'es Edilor . ............... Sarah Hamiltoll 
System Mana~er ............... Kevin William~ Photo Edilor . . . . . . . . . . ......... Scolt Bower Sports l:'ditor . \11chad Sulli1·;m Founded November 3, 1966 
Ihe__ 
Uo.1· (!. /llt•lre naml', /\' ·161';6 (.! I'J) .!39· 1303 
!be ( Jh.wn•er is the mtkpl'ndent nl·wspap~·r published h1 thl· stutlent;., of tht· Uni· \Tr~itl· of Notrl' Dame du L1c and ~amt \lan··~ Collegl· It dot·s not necessarih· reflect the polines ol till' admin1str;1tron ol either in~tllution. The nl·ws 1s rl·ported a~ al­curatl'lv and as ohjl't'tll'l'l\' as p<l'siblt' I nsignnll'ditorials rq'rt'sl·nt thl' opinon of a majoritl' ol the hl•tonallloard < omml·ntarics. letH·r~. and the lnsidl· Column present thl' l'iews olthl'ir authors <:olurnn space 1s ,1\ ;ulabll' to allnwmht'fs ofthe communltv. 
•111<1 th<· lrt'l' <'X(Hl'S.~IOII oh .1n 111gopmrons on c.llllfHI'. through kttt'fs. is t·ncouragcd. 
Department Managers 
·•
... 
·~ 

Thursday, September 8, 1983-page 7
Bindery 
Searching for America and a single theme 
capable of, and in fact did make pathy, defending Carter's motives mjstakes. Its leaders were too often but !llever denying he was a failure in 
by Sarah Hamilton 
short-sighted. White carries this the White House: point home in his mention of the 
Carter had done his best to 

Bretton Woods Agreement, U.S.
A111eriea in Searcla ofItself 
do the people's will, to give 
energy policies (or lack thereof),
by Theodore White _ them, as he hadpromised, a
the ever escalating number of New York, Harper & row, 1982 bureaucracies. The list goes on. government as good and All the while, the tempo is build· df!cent and compassionate as 
$15.95 
ing. White feels that everythingfrom the American people them­433pages 1956 on (perhaps even before then) sdves. His motives were wa.'i leading to the election of 1980. 
H
pure; but his thinking was ad the Greek poet Homer lived muddled. He was for a gov­
been the whole book) is his analysis Every event pointed in that direc­in the twentieth century, he ofthe shift in American ideas and tion. Ronald Reagan became the 
ernment ofcharity and a 
could not have summarized America politics. White first describes the climax after which the drama would 
government ofausterity at 
from 1956 to 1980 in more epic America ofthe first halfof this cen· take a different turn, a revolutionary 
the same time. His problem, 
proportions than did Theodore tury. It was a land ofpolitical one. 
in essence, was that he could 
White inAmerica in Search ofItself ma<'hines; ofChicago's Richard And this is where the second 
not quite understand the 
In this, t the latest of his series on Daley; ofTammany rule in New purpose ofthe book takes over: tbe 
presidential politics, White attempts York, finally broken by the little MakingofthePresident 1956-1980. world in which he lived. Nor to draw a "sketch ofthe transforma­flower; ofthe "package_s''.Jielivered These years included six elected his party, which he took over tion of politics" over the past quar­by machine bosses to presidential presidents. Hut White's coverage of in shambles and left in 
ter century. In the same 433 pages hopefuls. Then there came a these men and elections is sporadic. shambles. Nor the Congress, he tries to analyze the six elected reasonably sudden jolt -the elec­In discussing one of the presidents 
whose partnership he sought 
prt·sidents since 19';6, always build· tion Eisenhower in 19S6. It was a the author delves into his per­
yet disdained. Nor the grime 
ing in a crescendo to the c:lection of time rich in both "hails and sonality, wh_ile others he all hut 
and fear ofthe big cities, 
19HO and Ronald Rl·agan. farewells." With dramatic narration, ignores. (White seems to have for· 
whose decay could not be 
Although most hooks should not White tells of national conventions gottt:n Ford even hdd the office.) In 
tumed about by any call to 
hl· judged hy their covl·rs, the reader taking their tlnal bows as the true writing about Eisenhower. White 
will recognize from this one that nominating processes, and ofthe exposes his biggest blunder: how brotherhood. Nor, most of White b endeavoring to handle too primary systems, the convt:ntions' Ike, through the Suez Canal crisis. all, the world ofwicked and much material. The complete title successors. undid "the grand alliance that w<,.l paranoid men, who were 
rl·ads, America in Search ofI /self; What followed was a gradual, hut World War 11." Yet he mentions little changing the globe beyond 
Ihe MakinK ofIbe President 1956-eV(.'r quickening, shift in politics: else. Maybe that wa~ all there was to the seas. He was a man 
/<)HO. Even the master hiswrian of "ideas in motion." America in Eisenhowc"r, hut the reader b left 
caught and gripped, then contemporary politics could not Search ofitself defines the U.S. as wondet'ing 
squeezed and crushed, by 
convey the spirit, or rather spirits of "above all, about ideas and 
those stupendous forces of
a nation. as well as disect six dreams ... It was a succession of The reader is also left to wonder a 
history rising from a world
presidential c:lections and their vic­ideas, molding, changing kneading lot about Kennedy,Johnson and 
America had once freed and 
tors and losers. in one hook. Some­together for common purpose Nixon. Each of these men made hb­
dominated-where Jimmy 
thing is hound to get lost in the type. migrants from all the world. It ws tory in the Oval Oftlce, hut White 
Olien it i!-the reader. nor a timciful set ofideas. But the Carter's moralities were
docs not cover them adequately. l!pon realizing that America in underlying idea.~ ofbrotherhood Then again, how could he cover irrelevant. Search ofItself cannot be digested and opportunity was so compelling three such big men and the 
Hence, the election of 19HO and whole, the reader can sit hack, sift that, when it was invoked all other surrounding events in one text.' 
Ronald Reagan. White analyzesthrough the words and enjoy the considerations had to yield, all 
Why did he even try? every element of the election: the hook. It is unfortunate that White politicians how." Chapter seven, "The Stewardship 
times, the men, the parties, and pos· did not limit himsell: for he dis· The book then rel~tes the crea­
ofjimmy Carter," may in fact be sihly most importantly, the media. cusses all of the political aspects of tion ofAmerica's domestic Grt:at White's ma.~terpiece. In these pages 
Not a pebble is left unturned. Upon the years in question moderately Society. As this society took shape, the person ofjimmy Carter is ex· 
completion, the reader has a full well, at worst. He gives body to the U.S. as a world power and in­
plained. Although many people comprehension of that election. It issues, form to spirits and emotions, fluence was losing its foothold on regarded Carter as an incompetent 
leaves one wishing the author had color to events, and life to names the globe. And soon enough, both 
chiefexecutive, White does not ac­spent equal space (actually separate 
and faces. However, White simply would start on their rapid decline. cept this judgement at face value. He titles) on each election. 
offers more than can he gra.~ped As no textbook can, White explains provides rare understanding oftht· White must be given credit for his 
from one volume. this era, the events, the motives, the 
peanut farmer from Georgia who attempt. America in Search ofItself The most insightful part of plain undeniable facts. An underly· became president. 
exhibits experienced journalism.White's text (perhaps it should have ing theme surfaces: America is The chapter carries a tone ofsyrn · The author recalls travels with the 
Michener steps out ofbounds 
by Nick LaFlamme 
Spaee by James A. Michener New York, Random House,1982 $17.95 622 pages 
they only serve as comic relief in· senator. stead oftheo intended human interest 
Other subplots, while not guite as stories. For instance, the wife ofthe 
ridiculous, belabor Michener's fictitious senator(from the fictitious 
opinions about conservative state ofFremont, no less) comes un­
politics, the hedonistic drug-abusing der the charm ofa con man whose 
tendencies ofAmerica's youth, and schemes are generally built around 
the old-time religions that have people's curiosity about space. 
emerged in the last decade. No one E-verybody else knows he's a con 
is a sim:ple, realistic, normal man, but this slow-witted 
American; everyone is either a characature ofa person can't see the 
mover-:;haker or a relative involved obvious and eventually ruins her 
.in some outrageous subsection of husband's career as a journeyman 
America of the last forty years. 
E
very so often james Michener 
anecdotes covering forty years in Another flaw is a lack ofa sense ofwrites a historical novel en­the lives of Michener's tentpole 
compassing almost completely the characters. Because these charac­
time in the book. Months and 
history ofsome area and its culture. ters are placed in the upper ec­sometimes years seem to pass be· 
These lengthy books, such a'> Cen · helons ofthe military and NASA, it tween appearances ofcharacters, 
tennial about the American West both minor and major. This is uncer­
becomes in many ways a discussion 
and The Covenant about South tain, though, for there are very few
ofthe various philosophies which Africa, usually cover one set of were in conflict in the space references to actual dates, historical 
characters and their decendents events, or even years. Events often
program since its inception. Mic­over a period ofcenturies mixing hener does include the obligitory ·seem to be isolated from one anoth­
er, although the really big events
real life people among Michener's tales ofa.'itronauts playing test pilot fictitious characters. His 1982 novel such as the fictitious space launches
and ofsome tktitious missions in the Space is like his previous hooks in its Gemini and Apollo programs, but do not suffer from these discon­tinuitues. This causes the book to
mixture of real and imaginary mostly the book is about the politics 
characters over an period in history, seem to be more a set ofanecdotes
ofthe country and ofthe space but breaks the trend by covering a program. In that sense it is not a tal~ than a book with a real plot. concept that is only forty years old, ofadventure and challenge, but of However, it would be nearly impos­the American space program. . sible to just leafthrough the book
political conflict. Because the subject matter is an reading only certain sections; the
Michener does try to add spice to 
area well known and remembered events do build on each other in a
the story by detailing the personal by the American people, Michener skeletal form so that one must pay
lives of the main characters and of 
does not !>O muc t h tell the ba.'iic his­those who built and exploited the relatively close attention. 
tory ofthe idea a.'i much as concoct a space program, but these individual It is very unfortunate that Mic­
series offour hundred rdated hener made this so much a book of
tales are often so outrageous that 
L--~~-------------~ 
(Edward) Kennedy caravan on its primary journeys, conversations with Reagan on his airplane, and 
other knowledge only acquirable 
through years on the beat. 
For some reason, White is not as 
perfect as is to be expectt.d from the 
list of publications to his credit. His 
transitions are a little weak. Once 
again, this traces to the enormous 
amount ofinformation he wishes to "transmit. He cannot fit it all together. 
White's only other major stylistic problem is his word structure. Sometimes it is awkward and dif· ficult to follow. Sentences tend to be long and drawn out. In discussing an unfamiliar issue, it is essential to be as clear as the Englbh language al· lows. 
AppreciatingA merica in· Search ofItselfdoes not require a great deal ofprior knowledge ofthe subject. What it does demand is concentra-· tion. If you are searching for a hook about the last seven presidents of the U.S.. this is not it, but if you want a feel for political America hetweeh 
19';6-19HO, and you can db· criminate, and sift through the in· formation. Theodore \X'hite'~ climactic book olfcrs ;ust thar. It is a detailed and at the same tiri1e. panoramic look at Am rica in the ­second halfofthb century. But per· haps, it is too comprehensive. 
11/f lUKJ\'GOFTHE 
I'1<1~~11JEVT 19!)6-1980 

politics and so little a book ofpeople and emotions. How much nicer it would be to see how the fictitious a.'itronauts would react to the real missions of the astronauts after whom Michener evidently modeled them. It often seems that the only events Michener's characters react to are the calamities Michener so eagely heaps upon his them. We know how scientist Henry Mott feels about his son the drug dealer, but how does astronaut .John Pope feel when the crew ofApollo 1 die while awaiting their launch? The only 
reference to that event evidently takes place at least seven years later, when Pope has tlown his last space mission, the Apollo IH, and is a col· lege professor ofastronomy. 
IfMichener was so determined to write a book on contemporary politics, he could have written just as easily about something more mundane such as the Bureau ofl.and Management and all ofits dams in the West. A subject such as space and the space program deserves a better treatment emphasizing the in· herent excitement ofsuch a program. A mostly dull. plodding set ofanecdotes enlivened onlv everv hundred pages or so hy so~e fan~i­ful adventure does not do the sub­ject justice. 
The Observer Thursday, September 8, 1983 -page 8 
Old 'Style Y2 barrel $27.99 plus deposit 
we have a no hassle keg deposit policy We accept student checks with N.D.I.D.'s 
STORE HOURS: ­WEEKDAYS 9-10 FRI. &SAT. 9-11 
·,. 
I• , ~ • • ::. •• 
"'" 0 : 
·.· ·. 
.·.......... . 
Sports Brief~ 
The Boxing Clubwill hold the first practice for no~ice boxers on Monday at 4 p.m. in the boxing room in the North Dome of the ACC. Enter at Gate 3. All interested students are invited to attend. No previous boxing experience is necessary. Ifthere are any questions, call Mike Latz at 8308 or Angelo Perino at 3348. -The Obseroer 
The club hockey team will be holding a meeting on Monday, September 12, in the ACC Football Auditorium at 4 p.m. for all people interested in playing for the team. -The Observer 
The off-campus intramural football 
team is now being organized. There are mandatory tryouts going all week at 4 p.m. on Green Field next to Senior Bar. If you are in­terested, call 233-7261.-The Obseroer 
·Water Polo Practice is going on this week at the Rockne Memorial Pool from 4p.m. to 6p.m. Anyone interested must attend. Ifthere ar-:: any questions, callJohn at 6854 or Steve at 8428. -The Obsen1er 
Purdue ticket lottery winners are posted in 
the LaFortune Ballroom near the Student Union Ticket Office t /Record Store. Tickets are s12 and may be picked up at the Ticket Ollice. Each winner can buy one ticket and must bring a stu­dent ID. -The Obsen,er 
Varsity athletes interested in the NCAA-vFY 
(Volunteers for Youth), there will be an introductory meeting Sun­day, September 11, at 6 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns Auditorium. The group is interested in matching an athlete with a junior high student in the community. The ability to form a friendship with the youth is ofprimary importance. -The Obsen:er 
The Non-varsity Athletics Office has an­
nounced deadlines for signing up for more fall sports. Wednesday, September 14 is the deadline for graduate football, the golf team tourney, interhall men's soccer, outdoor volleyball, co-ree inner­tube water polo, and intcrhall cross country for both men and women. Ifthere are any questions, call239-6100.-The Obseroer 
I 
Thursday, September 8, 1983 -page 9 
• • .Kiel 
The men's and women's ba~sketball 
continuedfrom page 11
teams will be playing a softball game· on 3:30p.m. Sunday on 
Jake Kline Field. Everyone is invited. -The Obseroer available to fill in if necessary. The 6-3, 195 lb., California native was chosen as one of the top 100 fresh­men for 1983 by both The Sporting
The Rowing Club will hold a ge11eral meeting 
News andFootball News. tonight at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. All members, new 
Coach Hudson notes, "Steve has and old, must attend. Returning oarsmen must bri111g checkbooks 
great potential. He has displayed and proof of insurance. If you have any questions, call John 
composure and poise to the point Thompson at 1414. -The Obseroer 
that we are pleasantly surprised. 
"Steve is a freshman and he is still learning the system. He is forcing some yet. He has to improve on his
Ultimate Frisbee Club practicewm be hetd 
arm strength also." today and tomorrow behind Jake Kline Field betwem 3 and 5 p.m. 
"The college game is more ad­There will be a match at 2 p.m. Sunday in the same place. Old and 
·vanced than high school," admits new members are welcome. -The Observer 
Beuerlein. "Everything is taken one step further which means I have to learn one more thing in each area.
Football ticket distribution continues today 
Right now things have become afor freshmen until 5 p.m. Distribution begins at 8 a.m. Students who little mindboggling, but in time Iwilldid not buy tickets over the summer will get their chance after tl:)e understand them."
freshmen have picked up their tickets. -The Obserou 
"We arc in a better position to fill in for Blair should the occao;ion arise," comments Hudsori. "This is due to having better players and
The Tae-Kwon-Do Karate Club of Notre Dame will 
using the same system."
be holding its first practice tonight at 7 p.m. in the fencing gym of As the seao;on opener approaches
the ACC. New members are encouraged to auend. -The Obseroer 
there are further indications of the recognition of Blair Kiel's ability. This is evidenced by a quote by for· mer Irish quarterback joe Thef.o;.
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes is 
mann in the Chicago Tribune on
holding their first meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Howard Hall Sunday.
social space. All are welcome to attend. --The Observer 
The Redskin quarterback predicts Kiel will have "as good a year as any Notre Dame quarterback has had since 1970. That's the year I left."
TheWindsurfing ClubofNotre Dame will meet at 
In just two days, another edition7 p.m. on Wednesday, September 14 in the Lafortune Little Theater. 
of Notre Dame football will begin.
All those who signed up for lessons please bring ~ small deposit. 
For Steve Beuerlein it will be hisMembership fees will be S10. -The Obseroer first. For Scott Grooms it will be a continuation. But for Blair Kiel it
The ND Women's Soccer Club has a game 
will be his last. It will be his last against St. Mary's tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. behind Stepan. -The Ob· 
chance to achieve the goal he has al· 
server 
ways had. That goal of his is to help the team to achieve success. Whether or not he gets the recogni­
JoeYonto.special assistant to the athletic director, will give 
tion he deserves for being a skilled a lecture on "How to watch football" at 7:30p.m. Monday night in 
quarterback, he will always be trying the ACC Football Auditorium. -The Observer 
to help the team first and foremost. And he will have a lot of help from 
his backups. 
The Observer Lafortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per seven charac­
Classifieds 
ters, per day. 
Need Mtchtgan St TIX Call1695 I HAVE 4 MSU AND 2 PITT TICKETS, 80 MERCURY CAPRI Whtle. blue tnt. Needed! Two handsome. strong. brave BUT I NEED USC INSTE,,D. LET'S auto, 4 cyl, AM/FM stereo cassette. and ptous young men to asstsl tn Sacred NEED TWO MSU GA OR STUDENT TALK. CALL JERRY AT x1?63 AFTER console and more $4.700 or best oller Hearl Pansh Jr Htgh. Sunday School. 
TICKETS WILL PAY WELL CALL 6. 233·9570 affer 6 Sunday mormng from 9 15 · 10 30 a m KEVIN 8822 Calf Mollie Bernard 239·7511 ENDAD 1 ttcket jGA or student) needed for MSU SELL ME YOUR MSU STUDENT AND game Call Steve at 277·0455 TYPING AVAILABLE· 287·4082 
___NO_T_IC_ES~' ~'__TIC_K_ET_S~ 
TICKETS NEEDED FOR USC·MUST Always remember to mtnd you MAN­
GA TIX CALL GERRY AT 1604 
LOST/FOUND 
NERS
HAVE···CALL CHRIS AT 234·7279 
Need 4 MSU GAs. Pat 1238 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student 
NEED 4 MSU TIX STUDENT OR GA WILL PAY$$ FUFILL A KIDS DREAM
loans $20 to $200 t'o tnterest·due tn 30 HELP! Need 3 Mtch State hcketS-Name LOST -NO nng wtth tntllals P A M Dark Banquet Room avatlable at LOUIE S days Hours 11 30·12 30 Mon·Fn Olftce your pnce-·thanks Call Jtm at 8277 purple stone set m gold Call Paul at 239· FAMILY RESTAURANT. 744 N Notre
CALL8425 '" LaFortune basement 5313. or at 277·4851 $40 reward. no Dame Ave . South Bend Have your club
RIDES~
WANTED 1 GAorSTUTtxlorMI STATE questtons asked meehngs. btrthday parties For tnforma·
$$$lor 2 PURDUE GA Scali Bob8315 Sr Mantas Pnmary Day School Or· Wtll pay well Call affer 5 at 277-0953 !ton call 233-4044 gamzattonal Mealing Thurs 8th (lontght) lost glasses tn a two tone brown case tf
NEED 2 MICHIGAN STATE GAs OR 1 
7 00 at the esc bulldtng NEED 2 Mtch St GAs Wtlltrade 2 Penn St f HAVE CAR AND WILL TRAVEL TO ISU found please call Jtm 7816 THE MAUREEN MOORE SCHOOL OF
GA AND 1 STUDENT TICKET CALL GAs Call Martha 7915 DEFENSIVE DRIVING WILL COM·
NORMALIL FAt SEP 9 FOR AIDE CALL
KATHY AT 2966 
5 FOOT 2 & TAllER SIZE 9 & SMALLER DAN 1655 found a photograph of three roomates MENCE ITS FAll SESSION NEXT OPPURTUNITY TO MODEL FOR AN IN· Need 1 MICH ST ltC·GA or Stud ·Doug down by the lake last thursday ntght call WEEK SPECIALTIES INCLUDE THE
NEED DESPERATELY 1 MSU TICKET TERNATIONALLY KNOWN HAIR 277·4273 davtd at 8196 to clatm AVOIDANCE OF LARGE OAK TREES.
WILL PAY CALL KATHY 7793 
DESIGNER AND MAKEUP ARTIST IN· BACKING OUT OF DRIVEWAYS AND TERVIEWS HAGGAR CENTER Pay BIG BUCKS lor 6 MSU Gas Call Pat MISSING YOUR MANNERS? Watch The NUMEROUS OTHERS CALL NOW FOR
I NEED MICH ST GAS OR STUDS BAD· 
WANTE[CJ
STMARY S COLLEGE SEPTEMBER 8. at 277·7595 Observer! RESERVATIONS AND YOUR FREE
LV CAll Will AT 234·4511 
7 PM 284·4561 MMSDD T-SHIRT I need 1 or 2 ttckets lor the Purdue game 
NEED 1 MSU STUDENT TICKET CALL OUTDOOR ENTHUSIASTS!!! Volunteer
Campus Btble Fellowship Thurs 8 00 Call John at 283·1766 MULTIMILLIONAIRE FRIEND WILL
CLAIRE 6826 N D students needed to help as camp
p m La Fortune Aud Ktck·olf meettng PAY MULTI-DOLLARS FOR 4-6 TICK·
leaders tor a church-sponsored camptng 
PERSONALS
Frlm-lrfe Worth fhe Llvrng Everyone rs Help'! I need MICH ST and PITT ltx Call ETS TO MSU OR USC. CALL BILL AT
HELP! I NEED 1 GA FOR MICH ST club CRUSOE OUTPOST CAMP
wefcome Donna 8050 x1763.
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS KATHY 3429 Crusoe Outpost Camp. a 5-year club. provtdes wilderness expenences such as
The NOTRE DAME MARTIAL ARTS IN· NEED GATIXS FOR PURDUE AND ALL CAMBRIDGE DIET PLAN meettngs. I need 1 student hcketlor Mtch State Call
NEED 4 OR MORE GA TIX FOR MICH sknng. camptng. rock chmbtng, rah~ng.
STITUTE wtll hold an organllaltonal HOME GAMES.PETE 255-9196 personalized cousehng. FREE! Mtke x6770 Thank-you
ST WILLPAYTOP$$ CALLMAUAEEN etc , lor children elementar~ thru jr htgh
meetrng thrs Fnday at 7 p m '"room 219 Cambndge Center. 256·5400 Chp thts ad
284·5180 As an ecology tnpptng club Crusoe butlds
ol the Rockne Memonal All tnlrested DESPERATELY NEED 3 GAs AND 3 for savtngs! IIIHI, RICKIII GET WELL SOONI KEEP
poslttve envtronmenta1 values We need
people should allend lhtS meettng STUDENT TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN YOUR CHIN UPIN THE SKY AND YOUR
Need 1 MSU Ttcket Call Janet at 284· canng (must enjoy ktds thoroughly).
STATE CALLCHAISOADONAT1657 Uncle Gutdo wants to come see the lnsh NOSE TO THE MATTRESS! IIIWE
4261 crazy (lun-lovtng) leaders GurtarfbanJO 
destroy Ptll. bul Uncle GUido wasn 1able LOVE YOUIll VICKI AND DIANNEplayers also needed lor carnphres Tnps
WE NEED MANY MICH ST TIX CALL to purchase a ttcket II you want to keep
Need Student Season Tteke1s or 10 Call once a month on weekends Call Bttl
1773 Uncle Guido happy (II IS tn everyone s ENTREPRENEUR WANTED
a11106 
Staunton. 234·49951or mor•e details 
bestonterestto keep Uncle Gutdo happy) 1 Wanlto make money? 2 Want to get a NEEDS 3 GAS AND 5 STUDENT TICK· then please self your student or general great recommendation 1n travel. banktng.
WANTED TWO MSU TIX PLEASE
FOR RENT j 
GOING EAST T g.g? Need nde to EXIT 7
ETS FOR MSU CALL VINCE AT 3129 admtsslOn ttd<et to htS contact Call Sarah bool<keeptng. markelmg and adverttstng?
CALL RON AT 3360 OAMAAYAT3141 at1311. 3 Are you an entrepreneur person whoL----OHIO PIKE cor anywh9"9 close) call 
Steve 1516 
wantstobeatourdrrector>~ Doyousttek
NEED 3 MSU GAS OR STU TIX. NEED 1 TIX TO MSU GAME WILL PAY woth a jOb unlit you succeed? 5 We pay House lor rent 5 bdi'TT1S. turn. $100 mo 
PLEASE CALL BH.l AT 277·4273 WELL CALL LISA 811 0 commtssoon plus FREE.TRtPS to skt andplus uttl 2 mt lrom campus Call 233· NEED AIDE TO MILWAUKEE 9/9 PM He was a well-MANNERED man 
2245 or 255·6823 Will SHARE USUAL CALL MARY HELP! Need 3 GAs lor MtChtgan State spnng break areas 6 Send us your
6868
HAVE MSU TIX AND CASH! NEED to resume wllh your address and 1elephone
Game! Call Jay Sullivan at 1396 Wtlltalk HELP WANTED · ENTHUSIASTIC
FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO TRAOE lor PITT TIX lor parents Call number We wtlf be '" tOUCh 7 Send tm·
about$ Need 4 GA s lor any home ga"'e Call CAMPUS REP to self ski/beach tnps
:::AMPUS 277 3604 GREGat3317 medtatefy to COASTAl TOURS. INC
Ctndy at 2856 Earn FREE TRIPS & commiSSIOns SUN HELPI 1 need 3 Navy G A s Wttl pay 
P 0 Box 68. Oak Forest.ll60452 Phone
& SKI AOVENTt!RES 1·800·621·4031
Need 4 GAs lor MICH STATE GAME 13t2) 535·3212
~OR RENT COMPLETELY FUR goodmoney Ca11Tomat1423· 
CaiiKr~~tg at1608
NISHED APARTMENT SOCIAl CONCERNS FILM SERIES SO· 
RICH UNCLE WAMTI TlCICET$ TO USC
BEDROOM.LIVING My mom wtll kdt me 11 I don 1!11'1 "" MSU CtAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES SO· 
GAME.CAU.x1713 ANYTIIIE AFTER I
NEEDDESPEAATELY 4MSUTICKETS
ROOM.BATHROOM.KITCHEN 2 BIG gen adm tteket Please save my Ide and CIAL CONCERNS FILM SERIES
FOR SA~
WILL PAY$$$ CALLCHRISORBOBAT 6871 
CLOSETS CALL JOE LACOPO 731 sell me one Call Pete at 8317 or 8316 I MINO YOUR MANNERS 
DIAMOND AVE 233·2203 thank Clf'ld mom thanks you INDONESIAN REVOWTION A YEAR MIND YOUR MANNERS 
...... "" FORSALE Bedroom SUite .loisof kllcnen OF LIVIIIIG OANGEAOUSLY Tomght at MINO YOUR MANNERS 
Furn 1 bdrm 1lOuSe lor rent. E ol NO Pl1 $SNeed PURDUE TtJ$$ Call 1150 or WANTEO So Cat 11 Call Jtm collect uerns. TV tables Reasonable. negohabte 100 and t 30 €ngmeenng Auddonum 
272.()2fi1 1154 703·456·6806 Keep •rytng P"tCeS P"-233-0104 SOClAL()ONCI;RNSFILM SERiES · .i.lbeltf.?. ·-.; :~ · ·-.i;' • · ·· 
. .,,.·~/ .·}~~··: ,... ~~· ..j~:·.::_,·~ •..t.:.:·~:-:_;,:_·_::~-~.:_.~;_~.:.:._·_~;:_~.;~·~.:_}.,~.~-1:.~ :.;_·,:::.:_.~:.'.·.~_·.:::','·.
. ,,..._. ;..-. ·-·.·... .. ...
··:.•_;,· .....
..·_.:.~:..·_.:,_,_~.JJ_; :_.-.;,:~_,_".·..:._~r_::···:·.• ..~:~-~-~,~-::~~i~.·.·.~.: :~:·:_·.··
<.\{ )S~\~r~·r~:~~:;;;;.,.:~.-v .~ ··.. _. ---· ,-,:~ :-:---:-j~~ ·-~-.:~. _,
~· '.•. 

The Observer Thursday, September 8, 1983 -page 10 

EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 
AL·ANON 
Do you have a friend or family member who has a drinking problem? Maybe our AI-Anon group is for you! 
WHEN: Every Thursday, 4:00pm beginning September 15. WHO: for Notre Dame/St. Mary's College 
students. WHERE: Counseling-Psychological Services Center. Notre Dame Student Health Center 
CONTACT: Peggy Cronin or Monica McNamara at C-PSC, 239· 7336 or 239-5085 
usc 
UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOLS COMMITTEE 
Become a representative of the Admissions Office to your High School over October or Christmas break. 
For applications and further informa­tion, stop by the Admissions Office, Room 113 Administration Building. 
Application deadline, September 15. 
THUMBS UP FOR 
• • . Baseball 
Indians last night. 
continuedfrompage 12 
In the tirst game. Llake \1cBride Chi. 8, Oak. 7 
18th homer in the third off rookie 
scored three runs and Larry ~oren­
Scott Garrelt~. who was making his CIIICA<,u , AP) -.Julio Cruz 
sen fired a st·ven-hitter as the Indian~ 
Hrst major league start. rolled a single through a drawn-in in­
won "'-I. 
Clark kept the score at 1-0 in the tkld to score lfarold Baines in tht· 
Dan Petry. 16-H, allowed st·ven 
seventh wht·n he made a perfect hottom ofthe Hllh inning to gin· the 
hits. striking out five ami walking 
come­
throw from right tlcld to end an At­Chicago Whitt· Sox an H-..,
three for the victory in the nightcap.
lanta threat. nailing Claudell Wash­from-behind win last night over the 
John Martin recorded the last two 
Oakland A's.
ington at the plate as he tried to outs in the nimh in relief 
score from second on a single hy 
Ernie Camacho. 0-1, took the loss.Ratad Ramin:z. Soi ensen, I 0-9. struck out f(>Ltr St. L. 5, Pit. 2 ;md didn't walk a bauer in rq.;iMer­
Cle. 7 ·3, Det. 1· 7 l.OLIS (AI') Hookie Danny
~T. ­
ing his llfth victorr without a loss {n 
Cox pitdH:d l'ighr ~rrong inningsCLEVELAND (AI') -Pinch-hitter 
his last seven starts in the firM game. 
and OZ7.ie Smith rappt:d 1hreeJohn Wockenfuss grounded a bases­
It was his ~eventh complete game. 
~ingles, leading the St. Loui~ Car­
loaded single in the ninth to hreak a 
He lost a shutout when Lmce Par­
dinals paM the Pittsburgh Pirate~ "i-2.~-.3 tie and the Detroit Tigers went 
rish homered with one out in the 
la~t night.
on to a 7-.~ victory for a split of their ninth, his 25th of the season. 
-The loss,.couplcd with Montreal's
douhlcheader with the Cleveland 
Loser \1ilt Wilcox now is H-1 0. 

6-I victory over Chicago, dropped the Pirates one game behind the first-place Expos in the National League East.
Senior Class 
Phil. 6, N.Y. 1
and the 
NEW YOHK (AP) Joe
N.D. Student Union 
Lefebvre's two-run single high­
present a 
lighted a four-run seventh innin~ as the Philadelphia Phillies defeated the New York Mets 6-1 last night. 
Tailgater at Purdue 
John Denny, 14-6, scattered nine
Saturday before the game 
hits while striking out live and walking none. The .30-year-old right­
On the north side of the Golf Starter House 
hander yielded George Foster's 24th
off Cherry Lane 
home run in the fourth inning. 
Mike Schmidt helted his .34th home run for Philadelphia in the ninth inning off reliever Scott Hol­man. 
Len Matuszek's bases-loaded sacritice ·lly in the tirst inning gave the Phillies the lead hcfore they ex­tended the margin against starter Walt Terrell, 6-7, in the seventh. 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the ''Terrace Lounge'' 
I 
South Bend's largest 
'I. \ 
34 tank d
\\ 11 oz. ar i :; of beer is only 
: ·,, II $2.50
/ II 
/I 11 (Sorry. No mug sales this year.) 
Thursdays are fun at the Marriott! 
SOUTH BEND ~Qrriott 
HOTEL 
123 ~-St. Joseph Strf't'L South Hend. Indiana 46601 
HOMEMADE REAL CHEESE DELICIOUS 
-., 
GOODTIME PIZZA 
836 PORTAGE SOUTH BEND 
*Free Delivery To ND-SMC * 
.232-1883 
OPEN 7 DAYS Sun.-Thor. 4PM-llPM Fri. -Sat. 4PM -lAM 
BANKING•••NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank is pleased to announce the opening of our new office at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, on August 29, 1983! · 
Free checking is available to St. Mary's and Notre Dame 
students and faculty. In addition, our newest office bring5 you the convenience vf 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours· Monday through Friday August 29 • September 2 -9:00 a.m. • 5:30 p.m. September 6 ·September 16 -12:00 noon-5:30p.m. Permanent hours to be announced. 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service! 
~.source I
-.Bank 
Member F.D.I.C. 
'JI['~~C3L~----------------------------------------·~.r_h_u_rs_d_a_y_,s_e_p_t_e_m_b_e_r_s_,_1_9_8_3___
P_a_g_e_l_l 
Bloom County 

SuCH DEVIANt BEHAVIOUK. IS OF(£!-/ L!IJKfJJ 1'0 SOMWIING 
ri.AUI'IATIC IN ONE'S CJIILDHfJOD. 



Darby's World 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 28 Attlcan 61 Pedro's 1 Exalted township uncle 6 Readyfunds 30 Support 62 Pilfer 
10 Old soldier 32 -tea 63 Backusor 13 Breakfast 33 Aromatic Palmer food herb 64 Vegas 14 Succulent 36 Pulling attraction 
plant 38 Continuous 67 American 15 Year: Sp. 42 Hesitant humorist 16 Utter 43 Fine fellow 68 Ellipsoidal 
contusion 44 Wooden 69 Bring Into 18 Chief: abbr. runner being 19 Asiari sea 45 Misplace 70 Debussy's 20 Remlnls· 46 "Adam's-" "La-" 
cences 48 Certain 71 Construct 21 Slender tide 72 Ululates 
tube 52 Follow 23 Bristle 54 Famous DOWN 24 Rorem and sheriff 1 Came clos•t 
Beatty 57 Antltoxlas 2 fussy 26 Rapids 59 Home of the 3 Tumult rider Buccaneers 4 New Guine-a 
Wednesday's Solution city 
5 VIolinist Mischa 
6 On•tlme British dominion 
7 Muhammad's son-in-law 8 From -to nuts 
9 Relo~tlng to blood 10 Province in Spain 11 In a row, 
touching 12 Rocky 9/1/83 pinnacle 
Sponsored by Alpha Epsilon Delta 
DINER 
Engineering Auditorium Friday & Saturday 7, 9:15, 11:30 
·Campus ·.· 
•Lunch 
and Dinner -Wed. Lunch Fast Sign­ups, North and South Dining Halls, Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Radiation-Induced Redox Reactions of Iodine Species in Aqueous Solution," Dr. George B. Buxton, Radiation Laboratory Con­ference Theatre 

•4 
p.m. -Army ROTC, Awards Ceremony, Library Auditorium 

•4:15 
p.m. -Lecture, "Unions and the Mexican Auto Industry," Or. Ian Roxborough, 220 Hayes Healy 

•7 
p.m. -S.T.E.P. Mandatory Meeting, for those interested in working with Juvenile Delinquents, 124 Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -Fellowship of Christian Athletes Meeting, Howard Hall Social Space 

•7 
p.m. -Placement Meeting, For all Finance, Management and Marketing Seniors, CCE, Sponsored by Career and Placement Service. 

•7 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "West Side Story," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, S1 

•7 
p.m. -Art Lecture, "The Visual Artist: Staying Alive," Houston Conwiil, 232 Moreau Hall, SMC 

•7 
and 9:15p.m. -SAPB Film, "Superman," Car­roll Hall 


TV Tonight · 
7p.m. 16 Gimme a Break 22 Magnum, PI 28 Irish Preview 34 The Ascent of Man 
7:30p.m. 16 Ma Ma's Family 28 Too Close for Comfort 
8p.m. 16 We Got It Made 22 Simon and Simon 28 Reggie 34 Flickers from Masterpiece Theatre 
8:30p.m. 16 Cheers 28 It Takes Two 
9p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Middletown 
13 SomEIIRS men  10p.m.  16 22  NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News  
17-for the  28  Newswatch 28  
monEIY  
22 Actre·ss  

Janis. 25 Locale 
The Far Side 
27 Nervi)US 29 Sandusky's 
I lake 31 Dr.J's specialty 34 Cert11in prOffiSSIOn· al:abbr. 35 Certa1ln stud•ant 37 Smil'it 38 Give the eye 39 Mldclay 4{) Filmy 41 Conc:ert hall 47 Bull Run eve111t 49 Skip 50 Forvtard past> 51 Publishes 53 -Downs 55 Edg1a 56 Tako illegally 58 Busy as­60 Part of T.A.E. 63 Bad spot 65 Shade tree 66 -• Magnon 
Senior Bar Back by . Popular Demand 
Thursday Night 
BEAT THE CLOCK 
Thursday, September 8, 1983-page 12
S~orts 
IU-PU -Ft. Wayne soccer team beats Irish in more ways than one 
ByAI.GNOZA Tuesday's game was that no one rebound caromed in front of the net \j)(Jr/s Writer from tht· winning team was hooked to a waiting Paul Diaz who knocked and tingerprintc:d. To say that fort it home for the only tally of the 
Tho!'>t' of you who like soccer as a Wayne played rough is a little: like game. non-contact sport are better off not saying that the hoys on death row Diaz not only scored the winning having sn·n the IUPU-I'ort Wayne tt·nd to be a little aggressive:. goal, hut also personally accounted tt·am in anion. In its game with Two players -Dom Driano and for the premature departure of four Notre Damt· on Tue!'>day llJPll added Chris Telk -sutl't:red concussions, Notre Dame players. When Telk an entirely new dimension to the with Driano separating his shoulder decided to retaliate against the crus­Ulii<.Tpt of ''physical'' a!'> it dekated t(Jr good measure. lronman Mark her he was immcdiatc:ly ejected, the Irish in their season opener. 1-0. Luetkc:hans had to receive tlvc leaving the Irish one man shy for a 
"Till'y gan· us tht· worst physical stitches to close a cut under his chin. good part of the second half heating wt·'vc cn-r had in my 7 years' Tom Daley and Hoh Snyder were "I don't teach my players to play here." fumnl losing coach Hich llun­both shc:lvnl for a couple of weeks that Wa), Hunter said. "They tn "Tht· oftil'iallet the gamt· gt·t out aticr heing kicked in their legs. Ted shouldn't have to resort to that." of hand and we got butchered... Schwartz injurt·d his achilles tendon At one time Notre Dame had more 
The most 'tartling lite! ofthe game and may miss tomorrow's game with than its share of rough and ready was not that "<otrt· Damt· outshot its St. I'rands. Luckily no one was killed. hluc collar players who could throw ho.,ts 2·t to 'i. nor that tht· Irish con· Somewhere amongst all the their weight around with anyone. trolled the hall HO percent of the brutality. l'ort Wayne found the time But lately the Iri~h have become time. Not even that live Irish players to score a goal. The goal came after morl.' of a tlnl.'ssc tt.'am. From the 
had to he tal..en out of tht· game ht·­Irish goalie Mark Steranka mbplayc:d Broad St. Bullies to the Icc Capades. caust· of injuries. a shot. enabling the ball to bounce This stunning upset enables one No. the most startling aspect of dangerously off the goal post. The to draw many conclusions. In tht: first place, Illi'U is making the hig move from Division Ill to Division II 
competition successfully. Secondly, the game shows that many programs are catching up with the Notre Dame soccer program. 
Orioles and White Sox 
continue winning ways 
"Fort Wayne is a good example of 
!\lli.WAI KH (AI')-Willie Han­l. how other teams are greatly improv· dolph rappnl thrn· hits and scored Bill Hussell started Los Angeles' ing," said Hunter. "As far as us three runs ;md Don Baylor and Don winning rally against Ben ll;tyc:s, 4-4, competing with teams like Indiana, I Mallingly each drove in a pair of with a one-out single and Dusty doubt if we'll ever be able to reach runs to lt·ad the New York Yankc:c:s Bakn followed with a single to left. that level with our present status." to ;111 11-'i win on·r the i\lilwauktT sending Russell to third. The Hells Hunter gave his team Wednesday BrewTrs last night. then intentionally walked Pedro off in order that some of the bumps 
The loss dropped Milwaukt't: to Guerrt·ro. t11ling the bases for Mar· and bruises might heal. The Irish will lin· gamt·s behind the frorll-runnin$ shall, who followed with his I Sth give it another shot tomorrow night Orioles, while Nt·w York remained 'i home run and tlrst career grand against a hopefully milder St. francis II 2 hack in the American Leagut· slam. team. East. Tom Niedenfuer, H-2, the third 
Yankees' starter Hay Fontenot, 6-Los Angeles pitcher, earned the vic­l.,earned the victory. allowing seven tory. 
Quarterback corps 
hits in seven innings. walking thrn· and striking out one. Mont. 6, Chi. 1 New York st·ored three times in MONTREAL ( AP) -Tim Raines' tht· senmd to chast· Brewers' starter 
two-run double capped a four-run 
Improve(\ Kiel is starter again
Chuck Porter. 6-...,_ (;oose (;ossage 
second inning and Steve Rogers picked up hb I Hth save. fired a live-hitter as the Montreal Ex· ByTIMDOYLE "I think ht•'ll have a great season, touchdowns. 
pos won their fourth straight game .\jwrfs Writer and I don't know whether I would "Versatility is a word that fits Blair Bait. 5, Bos. 2 by ht:ating the Chicago Cubs 6-1 last have said that the last two years." well," says lludson. "lie is an excel· night. When th<. conversation among "Blair has worked hard to im­lent athlete who can run in addition 
BAI.TI MORE ( AP) -Joe Nolan The victory gave Rogers, 17-9, the sports enthusiasts turns to football, prove," says offensive coordinator to his strong throwing arm." 
douhlnl home the tirst Baltimore National League lead in wins. The one of the tlrst topics discussed is and quarterback coach Ron II udson. When the Irish offense takes the run and singled to launch another right-hander struck out four and the position ofquarterback. Very of­"lie wants to become a better quar· Held this Satunlay under Kid's direc­rally as the strt.'aking Orioles walked two in pitching his 13th ten the tirst question asked is, "Who terhack. Also, he feels more com­tion, one can expect a mix of of­ddeated the Boston Red Sox 'i-2 last 
complete game of the season. is your starting quarterhack?" ti.:>rtahle with the system and his fensive plays. 
night with dutch relief pitching hy 
Montreal erased a 1-0 deficit with For the better part ofthe last three teammates." "Ideally we: would like to throw 1'ippy Martinez. 
their t(Jur-run outburst against years, the answer to this question for Kiel is not one to disagree with his the hall 2'; to .-~0 times a game," com­The victory was the 15th in I 'i Dickie Noles, S-9. (;ary Carter the Notre Dame ti.Jothall sports en­coaches. ments Hudson, "but it all depends games for the Orioles, who are in doubled, Terry Francona walked, thusiast has been Blair Kid Once "I have always had contidence in on the game situation. If we arc one of thl'ir patented late-season and with two outs, Doug Flynn again this year the answer remains myself," says the 6-1, 206-lb. native having trouble throwing the ball we spurts. 
singled home the tying run. Blair Kid. of Columbus, Ind., "hut I detlnitely will tum to the run and vice versa."
Nolan doubled off the right-Ht:Id However, people are responding have more contldence this year. The Should the worst happen and Blair Ken Singleton, who
wall to score: S.F. 2, Atl. 1 in a much more confident manner reasons I have more confidence in­Kiel were to get injured, junior Scott 
had walked with one out in the: this year. The reason, perhaps, is that clude the team voting me captain Grooms is ready to take over.
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Jacksct·ond inning, then came home on a people arc beginning to appreciate and having the same offensive sys­As you may recall, Grooms, 6-2,Clark hil his 19th homer of thesingle by <iknn (;ulliver. 
his skills and leadership. In addition tem to work with." 197 pounds, transferred to Miami ofseason, a two-run, two-out shot offWith two outs in the fourth, Nolan the t·oaches and Kiel himself have "I think my injury last year was a Ohio aticr his sophomore season,Pascual Perez in the eighth inning, toami Gulliver lan·d singles and Nolan more confidence in his abilities. blessing in disguise. I gained con­but then transferred hack to Notre
give the San francisco Giants a 2-1scored on a ground-rule double by 
Head Coach Gerry Faust says, Hdc:nce while I was injured because Dame last fall. After sitting out thevictory over the Atlanta Braves lastl.cnn Sakata to make it 5·1. 
"Blair seemed to he a changed per­many people came up to me saying 19H2 season in compliance with
night.
Boston starter Dennis Boyd, -4-'i, 
son beginning last spring. He has so how much the team really needs me NCAA rulc:s, he worked his way to
Perez, 1.~-7, allowed only four hits
gavt· up the last of hb eight hits in 
mu<.:h more confidence in himself, and how important I was to the the number two quarterback slot
through seven innings, and thethe Hfth when Eddie Murra,­and we have the same feeling about 'team's success." this past spring.
llravt·s led 1-0 on Chris Chambliss'
doublcd and scored on a two-out 
him. Ifone were to look at Kid's statis· "Scott has gotten better and bet­
single hy Singleton. see BASEBALL, page 10 
tics, you could sec the improvement ter," says Hudson. "lie has pt·r·
Winner Mike Flanagan, 10-5. 
from year to year. formed welL l-Ie knows what his 
yielded I 0 hits before being lifted in As a freshman he had 4H compk· problems arc and is working on 
the seventh after Reid Nichols hil a tions in 124 attempts for S 3 I yards. rectifying, these problems. I have
Mary Di names assistant
leadotf homer. 
As a sophomore he was 6 7 -of-1 '; I great contldcnce in Scott as a backupMartinez fanned Wade Boggs. tht· 
for 936 yards and seven touch· quarterback if needed."
Notre Dame women's basketball coach Mary DiStanislao now hasmajor leagues' kading hitter, and downs. Last year he was 118-ot~219 Since his return to Notre: Dame,a new assistant coach.
Jim Rict·, the American League's for 1,275 yards and three touch­Grooms, like Kid, has acquiredIt was officially announced yesterday that Jill Jeffrey, an assistant
homt· run and HBI kader, to notch 
downs. His completion percc:ntagt· more contldcncc in himself. 
coach at Northeastern University in Boston, has joined Mary Di'shis I'ith save. 
has risen from 59 percent in his "I am more confident in my ability
staff. Jeffrey replaces former Notre Dame assistant Pat Knapp who freshman year to S4 percent last as a player now", says Grooms. "I
L.A. 7, Cin. 3 
has taken over the head coaching responsibilities at New Mexico year. know that I have to throw the hall onState.
LOS AN<iHES ( AP) -Mike Mar­"A key to Blair's improvement is time and he able to read the defenses"We're thrilled to have: Jill join our staff." said DiStanislao. "She hasshall smashed a grand slam home that ht' wants to improve", says Bud· better because my arm is not as 
a tine knowledge of the game and an understanding of how we playrun with one out in the bottom of 
son. "He has become a student ofthc strong as Blair's arm.
and teach basketball at Notre Dame."
the I Oth inning to power the Los An· 
game. lie has worked on under· "I am sure that I could go into a
Jcffrt·y is a 1980 graduate of Montclair State where she playedgdes Dodgers to a 7-.~ victory over standing defenses and attacking the game and replace Blair if I had to,varsity basketball for four years. She captained the team as a seniorthe Cincinnati Reds last night. 
weak points." whereas as a freshman I don't think Iand helped her squad to a third-place tlnish in 1978.
The victory snapped a three-game The senior marketing major also could have."
The Allentown, Pa. native also spent a year as a player and assistantlosing streak for the Dodgers and ex­has the ability to run the ball if Steve Beuerlein may argue: thatcoach of the New Jersey Gems of the Women's Professional Basket·tt·ndcd their lead in the National necessary. In his career thus far, he point. The freshman sensation is alsoball League. 
League West to two game!-! over At· 
has rushed for I72 yards on I46 

lanta, which los! to San Francisco 2· 
carries. He also has rushed for five· see KIEL, page 9 

