Irish Extra -page 9 

VOL XVIII, NO. 45 the in<.lqx·n1.knt ~IU<.lent new~p~1x·r ~en·ing notrt dame and ~ai,nt mary·~ FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1983 
White rule declines in Soutllt Africa 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Afri.ca­South Africa took its first step away from exclusive white rule in 35 years Thursday, giving "a thun­derous yes" to a new const1 tution that sets up separate chambers of Parliament for Asians and people of mixed race. 
Although whites voted neal'ly 2-1 for the charter, militant Indian, mixed-race and black leaders said the new system offers only token rights and fails to address the central issue in South Africa-the denial of political rights to the more than 21 million blacks. 
Final results of the whiu·s-only vote showed that a record tuntout of more than 2 miUion, 76 pen·ent of the electorate, gave a heavy majority in Wednesday's referendum to Prime Minister P.W. Botha's Nation­al Party. 
liberal and ultra-right opponents lost in 14 of 15 voting district1·. With the final margin 1,360,223 in favor to 691,577 opposed, analysts agreed the ruling Nationalists had earned a solid mandate to move ahead with the new constitution. 
The Johannesburg Star had a ban· ner headline: "a thunderous Yes." 
A delighted Botha told hundreds of supporters in Pretoria, "A new basis for unity has been laid. We must strive to lead this lovely country ofours more and more with a spirit of fairness. Now w<: must begin working anew and builc:ing." 
The new constitution creates an 80-seat chamber of Parliament for the 2. 7 million coloreds, as the regime calls people of mixed race, and a 40-seat chamber for the 800,000 Asians. But The 166-~at chamber representing the country's 5 million whites will stay the same, and the white state president will be empowered to overturn any deci­sions taken by the new chambers. 
Both now must win over enough Asians and people of mixed race to make the new system credible. He said he was confident the system could be in place by the second half of 1984 after a still undetermined test of opinion among Asians and people ofmixed race. 
Allen Hendrickse, leader of the moderate Labor Party for people of mixed race, said the referendum vote showed "a clear majority of white South Africans have opted for a process of joint decision-making. We coloredsare goingto have a plat­form to speak where it counts," he said. 
But Cassim Saloojee, an Indian leader of the multiracial United Democratic Front, said, "As far as we are concerned, it is 8 percent of the population who are imposing their will on the rest ofSouth Africa. This constitution is not acceptable. The vast majority of our people would reject this constitution." 
Nthato Motlana, an anti-apartheid leader in the black township of Soweto, said Borha "could have gone for real reform, not this worth· less constitution." 



Quinn Fanning and Greg Hendey adjust the structing floats at Stepan Center yesterday, but chicken wire ofthejunior classfloat in prepara­thf. freshmen seemed to have the jump on their tion for tomorrow's game against Pittsburgh. elders in the race to finish before tonight's pep Work progressed slowly for all four classes con-rally. 
Author says energy is surplus crisis 
ByJOHN MENNELL history of the cnsts demonstrates News Staff that energy problemsstemmed from attempts by world powers to stifle 
Despite the apparent lack of surplus supplies. 

available energy sources today, the "The point at which our energy 
energy crisis is a crisis ofsurplus, not crisis began was 1911 when Chur­
of deficit, according to James chill decided to c·onvert the British 
Ridgeway, a Washington columnist fleet from coal to oil," he said, ad­
and author of eight books on the ding that this decision led to the im­
politics ofenergy. portation of oil and the 
In a lecture last night on "The development ofa cartel that was set 

Politics of Energy: Ten Years after up to guard against a surplus. 
the First Crisis," Ridgeway said the "The price ofoil from the east wa.-; 
lowered by the U.S. oil companies, resulting in OPEC and the 1975 em· bargo which set off the energy crisis," according to Ridgeway. "The energy cnsts has pretty much receded but the ramifications of it are very much with us." 
One of the ramifications is the "tremendous glut of oil now on the market," Ridgeway said. 
The postponement of develop-
see ENERGY, page 4 

Deaf theatre comes to Saint Mary's 
ByjOHN NEBLO 

NewsStaff 
The National Theatre of the Deaf, a theatrical company that syn­thesizes spoken English and American sign language, will be at Saint Mary's next week. They will perform "The Hero with a Thousand Faces" Wednesday, Nov. 9 at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium as part of the Saint Mary's Performing Arts Series. 
Now in its seventeenth season of touring, the National Theatre of the Deaf directs its performances to both deaf and hearing audiences. The audience both hears the play's dialogue as it is spoken by the hearing actors and sees the play's language in the hands of all the ac­tors, both hearing and deaf 

"The Hero with a Thousand Faces," based on Joseph Campbell's play, was adapted by Larry Arrick, also the play's director. The comedy examines man's use of myths and fairy tales to give him a sense of humor and help keep him sane in an otherwise terrii)'ing and crazy world. 
The theatre troup will also hold two free workshops on Wednesday. 

A visual theatre workshop is scheduled for 10 a.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Theatrical expression using the total body will be demonstrated, including the basics of movement, kinetic imagery, sign language and mime technique. 
A lecture-demonstration, focus­ing on the concept and history ofthe theatre of the deaf. will be at I p.m. in the auditorium. 
The National Theatre of the Deaf was established in 1967 by artistic director David Hayes with the help of federal grants. During its I 7 year run, the company has been in­strumental in fostering improve­ments to the social health of the deaf The National Theatre of the Deaf has helped remove the stigma from sign language, legitimize its usc on television, and popularize its study. 
But the National Theatre of the Deaf should not be confused with a theatre/or the deaf. The company's performances are aimed at both deaf and hearing audiences. 
"The ability of the deaf to st·nse and communicate by means other than verbal is fanta.-;tic," says Mr. 
see DEAF, page 4 

Juniper Press to publish graduate student's play 
Special to The Observer 
A play written by a Nmre Dame graduate student in developmental econpmics at Notre Dame ha.'i been selected by Juniper Press as its latest publish· ing project. 
The student-operated publish­ing house selected the play, Payable on Return by Michael Varga, from 12 literary works submitted for consideration. 
The play is a story ofa reunion of two college roomates whose lives have taken different paths. It goes beyond the topics of friendship and relationships to the controversial issues of race, sex, and prejudice. Student jurists selected the play for its ap­peal both to students and non­students. 
Juniper Press was created dght years ago by Elizabeth Christman, associate professor of American Studies, novelilt and former literary agent, to permit her students to acquire ex­perience in all phases of the publishing business. This was the first time a play was selected. Pre­vious efforts included two books by Professor Ralph Mcinerny and a collection of campus cartoons by Michael Molinelli. 

The Observer 
In Brief , · 
Five Notre Dame students yesterday were t(nmd guilty of being in a tavern as minors. St. Joseph County Judge llosin~ki !Inn! each ofthe students S2S plus court costs and one day in jail. The jail sentence, however, was suspended by the judge The five were arrt·sted in a Sept. I 0 raid of Nickie's Bar. 928 N. Eddy St. ­
The Ohsen•er 
A resident of the O'Hara-Grace townhouses for graduatt· women rt·ported an intrudt·r in her apartment shortly after H p.m. Tuesday. Wht·n the student returned to the apartment-after a brid absence, she reportedlr found the stranger standing ncar a kitchen table. She told sc<:urity ofikcrs that the man invited her in but left when ordered to. The cord on her telephone had been slashed. lie was decribed as rcing in his late 20's, about 6 feet tall, short brown hair with a receding hairline, and wearing silver, wire· rim hlasscs. -.\fJecial to the Observer 
Astrik Gabriel, directoremeritus ofNotre Dame's Mt·dicval Institute, has been elected an honorary member of the llungarian Academy of Sciences. An internationally known scholar in the history of medieval education, Gabriel is also a member ofthe Frt·nch and Bavarian Academics, as well as a fellow of the Medieval Acadt·my of America. lie was director of the French College in Hun· gary and a professor at tht· I :niversity of Budapest prior to coming to North America in 1947. lie joined Notrt· Dame's faculty in 1948 and wa~ director of the University's Medieval Institute for 23 years. 
-7be Ohsert•er 

Of Interest 
Fall Festival continues tonight with the tradition· al pep rally at-::' p.m. in Stepan Center. However, the organizers ofthe festival have added a new twist to the cheers this year: a fireworks display and a bonfire on White field. across the street from Stepan Held, after the rally. Tomorrow morning at I 0, a parade around the ctmpus will hq~in followt·d by judging of the class floats. After the Pittsburgh game. a "New Tradition" datKc will he held in the South Dining llall. Tickt·ts cost S2. S3 for couples. In addition, various raflk ti<:ket~ will ht· sold in the dining halls today and tomorrow. The Wt't'kt·nd will end with a Mass celehratt·d by Father Theodore lies· burgh, Univnsity presidt·nt, in the Stanford-Keenan chapel at 7 p.m. -7be OfJsen•er 
The Department of Music will present Darlene Catdlo in a harpsit:hord recital today at 8: IS p.m. in the Library Auditorium. ller program will include works of Bach, Louis Couperin, ami Carlatli. Catello has received a performance degree from Notre Dame and has studied Baroque music in summer in· stituties at the I lniversity of Michigan. Her teachers have includci:l' Sue-Sdd Martin. Pt·nelopt· Crawford and presently Edward Parmen· tier. -The Ohsen•er 
A change in the Nazz'ssaturday night concert has htTn ;umoutKt'd. John Kt·nnnly and Joe Dolan will be singing in the Nazz lKginning at 9 p.m. This rt·presents a change from the posters on campu~. -7be Ohsen•er 
Charles Tompkins, organist ti>r Harnline uni· vt·rsity of St. Paul. Minnesota, will present a gut·st recital at 8 p.m. Sunday in Sacrnl Heart Church. Tompkins won first prize in tht· national organ playing <:ompt·tition sponsored by the Boston chap· tn of the American Guild of Organists in 197S. The following year he was tht· winner of the lldt·n Gruvn Kline competion sponsored hy the National Sodt·t~· ofArts and Letters. -The Ohsen•er 
Sunday, Nov. 6 is Band-Aid Sunday, and the ~llldent ~en-icc organization Circle K will he collecting dona· tion~ to ht·ndlt ProjtTt Concern. a Cali!(mJia-hast·d group which supplks mnlil'altreatmt·nt and knowlnlge to nn·dy children of the world. For one dollar. tht· donor will receive a Band-Aid. designed to serve as a symbol ofcompassion. Circle K volunteers will be in hoth dining halls f(>r lunch and dinner on Sunday. -7be Ohsen•er 
An Urban Plunge workshop will be held Sun· da)' at I :50 p.m. in the Mcmoriall.ihrary Auditorium. The workshop will introdtll'l' this ~Tar's plungers to some of the experiences they will etKountn in January. More than .~40 students will be going to 'iH sitt·s around I he country f(>r the 19H4 l lrban Plunge. -The Ob­

sert'('l" 
0

Weather · · • 
0 
Mostly sunny today and very cool. High in upper 40s. Clear and cold tonight with a low in upper 20s. Sunny tomorrow and not as cool. High in low SOs. -AP 

Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 2 
Concerts: for or at ND? 
The Kansas concert, originally scheduled for last night, was cancelled after it had been approved and par· tially promoted by the Student Union. 
Virtually all chances for Student Union-organized concerts in the ACC this semester have been reduced to dust in the wind. 
So comes the word from Student Union organizers who say they have been stifled in attempts to bring popular musical groups to the ACC. 
Sl; Concert Commissioner Ed Konrady said he has submitted approximately IS band proposals to the SU steering committee, which must approve all concerts. Kansas was the only band accepted by the committee. 
That approval was reversed by the committee when it "started having second thoughts" about the risks in· volved with hiring the group, Konrady said. "If the Stu· dent Union loses money, it's possible to wipe out the whole budget if the loss is huge enough ...The risk was unacceptable." 
Kansas was cancelled since too few students showed interest in the 
group, said Laureen Powers, last year's assistant concert commissioner. 
the Student Uh\on 
Student Union has suf· fcrcd consistent setbacks in 
pre.sen-ts~


trying to book groups at the ACC -and many of those setbacks will remain. 
Many of the recent bands have been booked only he· cause of their appeal to the South Bend audience. The interests of Notre Dame arc secondary when outside promoters book such low student interest groups as 
Barbara Mandrell, ZZ Top, 
AC/DC, and Billy Squire. 
A common student complaint is that many concerts arc booked during breaks or in the summer. Styx, Dcf Leopard, and Journey came to the ACC last summer while Joan Jctt and Lovcrboy both made the trip to South Bend over fall break. 
It's understandable that promoters consider the in· terest of the entire South Bend community since the vast majority of each concert crowd consists of non· Domers. Only 1,000 of the S,400 tickets sold for last year's Chicago concert went to students, according to Powers, and both Konrady and Powers agree that sales of 1,000 student tickets arc above average. 
A continuing dilemma is that the Student Union should be committed toward providing student enter· tainment, but it cannot plan concerts without com· munity support. 
Student Union organizers argue that they were seriously hurt when they lost their preferential treat· ment at the ACC last year. Until last fall, the ACC 

Jeff Harrington 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Friday 
~· 


charged outside promoters 20 percent of the gross 
profits for rental while the Student Union was only 
charged 1 5 percent. 
Now, since outside promoters and the SU are both charged 1S percent, the Student Union rarely has a con· cert sponsored in conjunction with an outside promoter looking for a cheaper rate. Thus, the Student Union has lost any influence it used to have overoutside promoters. 
Clearly, Student Union organizers cannot be con· 

demned for the void in con· certs for ND and Saint Mary's students. Several of the key problems in attracting and promoting popular groups are inherent to both the area and the setup of concert ap· proval: •South Bend itself is a secondary market and many top performers refuse to come here simply he· cause ND is not ideally located for concert toll rs. 
•The 
option of dealing with professional promoters in· stead of students is more appcalling to many groups, thus the Student llnion is handicapped from the out· set in negotiations. 

•The 
decision-making 



process is long and drawn out at the Student Union, with bands needing the approval of the steering com· mittec, the vice-president for student affairs, and sometimes the Student Senate. In light of such in· herem difficulties, Konrady notes that he is "cautiously optimistic" about the chances for booking popular groups next semester and beyond. He added, however, that he is still worried about the concert commission's potential since none of the problems have been resolved. 
Despite the limited monetary worth of student tick· 
ets, the Student Union is making a grave error when it 
loses sight ofstudent interest in favor ofprofit. As a stu· 
dent organization, the Student Union should realize that 
it is not a professional promoter, and that breaking even 
is acceptable. 

However, if the Student Union cannot manage to break even in scheduling musical groups attractive to the student body, then the value of any sort ofconcert commission at all is seriously questionable. 
Composition Editor...... Suzanne La<:roix Composition Assistant....... Susan O'llara Typesetters.. .. ........... Michelle and Ted Neu•s Editor......................... ) elf Harrington Copy Editor............................. Kevin Binger Sports Copy Editor............... Mike Sullivan Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy 
J:i:litorlu/s Layout ............... Kt'n Ccrahona ft•atures Lt~J·out ............... Sarah llamilron ND IJay Editor.... .. ......... Kathy Doyle .\~W(.' Day Etlitor . ............. Mary Ann Pottc..'r Atl Design.. .. ..................Jean Eud1 PhfJio!{rapbt..,. ........ Car(JI <.ialt.·s Citu•sl.·tppt•ara1lce.\· Tbt•IJ/adt) only hirl'~ 
tall P<"opk, The volkyhall star. llapp\' Birthday Obsert•er 
Qu"te "[the IJav Peace through superiorfin.•pou.•er 
The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) IS published Monday ihrough Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The ObMrver IS published by the sludents of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys College. Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semesler) by wnllng The Obeerver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The ObMf'\ler 1s a member of The Auocleted ~... All reproduction nghts are reserved. 

RESIDENT PHYSICIANS 
In 
Orthopaedic Surgery Otolaryngology General Surgery Anesthesiology OB/GYN Urology 
$28,000 MINIMUM ANNUAL SALARY 
Paid by the U.S. Navy in your final year or two years of civilian resident training 
Excellent benefits include: 
• 
Malpractice insurance absorbed 

• 
Health care benefits (for family, too!) 

• 
30 days of vacation earned each year 


Your only obligation is to complete residency training then serve a minimum of two additional years on adive duty as an officer in the U.S. Navy 
Contact: t feutenant Greg Thompson 
Phone: 269-6339 local or Toll Free 1-800-382-9782 
*Navy rep on campus 30 Nov. &1 Dec. 
L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~·~·----------------------------~ 
The ObservE~ Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 3 

Keep offth4~ fence! 

Dan Mulhall might be wary about campus directives outlawing fence leaning as well as those prohibiting walking on the grass after this little spill. The Howard Seniorgot a squin-el's-eye view of a recent South Quad section football 
game. 

'Red Line' to return to LaFortune Center 
By RICH INGRASSIA 
News Staff 

The Electronic Bulletin Board, missing since April, will return to the first floor of Lafortune Student Center as soon as renovations are complete there, according to Om­budsman Director Andy Tucker. 
The message board is operated through two private news agencies in Dallas: the Electronic News Net­work and the Brunner Broadcasting Company. These Texas companies compile national and world events, sports, and other news and through private telephone lines relay the in­formation to many universities around the United States. 
It actually costs Notre Dame no­thing, because the networks are sponsored by various national ad­vertisers. However, such business practices are a source of con­troversy and prevents the installa­tion of another system in the dining halls where it would obviously receive the most attention. 
In addition to news, a portion of the daily broadcast will soon be devoted to memos from student or­ganizations, University bulletins and 

CATHOLIC WORKER COMMUNITY 
••• "Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty, a stranger or naked, sick or in prison, and did not come ~o your help11 Then he will answer, 11 1 tell you solemnly, >n so far as you neglected to do this to one of the least of these, you neglected to do it to me11• 
Dear friends, 
We at Anawirn uouse ( 111lnd.Wim11 is Hebrew for "humble people of God 11 ) are engae::;ed in an apostolate of livin~ in community with the mentally retarded, believing it is more important to live with them than for them. lt is a ministry and life style which has evoived out of the dual influences of Dorothy Day and the Catholic Worker l':ovement and the L' A.rche concept of "Little Houses of Peace" in which the mentally retdrded and their co-workers make family with "Jne ?-not~er. ~Jornmon to both these influences is the emphasis on !'10Sp~ tal.l ty towards the lec..st of nur brothers and sisters, as enjoined by Jesus in the Last Judgment story. 
~resently a community of four mentally retarded teenagers and four co-workers, our endeavor to faithfully follow the Gospel call to love God by loving one another means we share our lives with one another. He work, laugh, pray, and play together, aware of our many failings yet also aware of our Christian faith which makes all failure surmountable. Kt times this melding of unlike personalities yet common commitment proves draining and quite unromantic--the Trapp family or the '1/altons we are not--but our caring continues both in Anawim House and in the lar~er community. We are involved in the 
·operation of i:i community soup kitchen, believing that whenever one gives bread in love one does not give bread alone, and in a local peace alliance, aiming to comfort the afflicted and to afflict the comfortable, as did Dorothy Day. 
Nhile aware of our own shortcomings we are nonetheless equally aware of the necessity and v&lue of our witness and hope to establish & second .house. To do so it will be necessary for us to be joined by others willing to cast in their lot with us, lf you are intri~ued by this opportunity for volunteer service the~ we invite you to meet with us at the Center for Jocial Concerns on Tuesday afternoon, November 8. Nhether you choose to accept our invitation to community or not, we will gladly welcome your visit and your questions, for you will never be a stranger to us. ~eace to you, 
campus events. 
Last year, the system in LaFortune was removed in April. The constant­ly moving "red line", as it was referred to in a letter to The Ob­sen,er was apparently a source of distraction to several students?? In one incident, the machine was un­plugged and the entire memory was erased. 
The Reader will be installed near the OBUD information bar. OBUD will oversee the operation of the Reader and field any complaints, suggestions or requests for messages. Ombudsman Director Andy Tucker facilitates Notre Dame's connection with the Dallas networks, andJunior Carrie Burke of OBUD is separately in charge of the system's upkeep and maintainance. 
Tucker said that suggestions to improve the reader are welcome, noting that it is OBUD's function in general to field student comments and aggravations on anything, not just dining hall complaints. 
Director of Student Activities James McDonnell insists that the sys­tem must be useful, and be worth the time and energy that has already been put in. 
'Accent' to provide speakers 
ByJIM BASILE 
News Staff 
The Student Union feels that 
having only Digger Phelps and Gerry 
Faust speak at the various dorms is 
not nearly enough. 
"This leaves a lot of untapped 
potential in the faculty and ad­
ministration," said the Student Uni­
on's Maureen Carson. 'There are 
many people willing and able to 
speak." 
Carson is in charge of the Student Union's new hall speaker program, 'Accent.' 
Accent was initiated "because we 
feel there is a need for more informal 
interaction between the students 
and their faculty and administra­
tion," according to Carson. the 
pogram coordinator. 
Last spring the Accent coor­
dinators distributed questionairres 
to faculty, administration, and staff 
members. They were asked to list 
areas they would be willing to speak 
to students about. 
"We recieved responses from 80 people who are willing to speak on everything from religion to politics to windsurfing," said Carson. 
Currently the Student Union is creating a brochure listing the names and topics of the participat­ing university staff. When the brochure is completed it will be dis­tributed to hall academic commis­sioners. The individual halls can then decide what topics and people they would prefer. Funds are being allocated from the Student Union academic budget to provide for the program. In addition to the brochures, funds are being provided for the halls to buy refreshments or possibly gifts for the speakers who will be participating on a voluntary basis. 
Carson hopes that the speakers and refreshments will, "encourage mens and womens dorms to get to­gether on the projects. This will en­courage larger audiences and greater interaction." "This is not a formal lecture series," Carson was quick to point out. "Since the goal is interaction on campus the speakers will hold infor­mal discussions with the students. Currently there is no such program on campus." 

----------~---­
The Observer 
Senate approves Nicaraguan aid 

WASIIII'IIGTON (AP) The lkpuhli<:an-controllc.:d Sc.:nate agrn·d yc.:stt·rday to allow continued CIA-hacking for guerrillas trying to ovt·rthrow the lc.:ftiM Sandinista gov(·rnmt·nt in Nicaragua. 
Tht· exact amount of money is 
secrt·t officially, hut sources said the ll)H-t intelligence authorization hill -approved hy voict· vote -con­tains S ll) million to support an es­timated I ';,000 rchds operating throughout Nicaragua. 
Despite tkhatc.: on tht· question, tlwre was no separate floor vote spc.:citlcally on continuation offimds tilr CIA activity in Nicaragua. The Senatt· lntdligence Committt·c ap· provnl the operation hy a I5-2 vote in Sc.:p.t·mher. 
Tlw Ikmot·ratk Ilouse has votnl 
twi<:e to cut off all money tor covert operations in Nicaragua and tough negotiations on the issue are ex­pt·ctcd in a conference committee. 
Even if both houses eventually agree to legislation cutting off the money, President Reagan could veto the measure and it would take a two­thirds vote in both houses to override him. 
The House included S';O million 
in open military aid for U.S. allies in 
Central America to usc in counter­
ing arms flow from Nicaragua and 
Cuba to rebels in countries like El 
Salvador and Honduras. 
During a brief debate, some Dt·mtKratic members of the Senate Intelligence Committee said their support was based on assurances hy CIA chief William Casey and 

Greyhound workers go on strike 
Assodated Press 
PIIOENIX, Ariz. -(;rcyhound 
Bus Lines lm:. shut down 60 pnccnt 
of the nation's intercity hus service 
f(lr at least two wn·ks Thursday as 
thousands of drivers and other 
workers went on strike ratht·r than 
acn·pt l). <; pc.:rn·nt wage cuts. 
Pickets marched in front ofdepots 
ami passc.:ngt·rs went looking for 
st·ats on otht·r bus lines or simply 
stuck out their thumbs. 
And long lines of joh applicants appeared outside (;rc.:yhound offices in responst· to nt·wspapt-r ads sc.:t·king nt·w c.:mployn·s. Btll thert· was littk animosity ht·tween pickets and tht· joh applicants. 
"If I was unt·mployt·d. I'd he in lint· too," said 49-ycar-old bus driver Jesse Ellison of Buft;tlo, N.Y., who was picketing at the Niagara Frontier 
• • . Deaf 

continuedfrom page 1 
nwnt ofsyntht·tk fueb. nuclear fueb and other alternatives has resulted from what Ridgeway called a "politks of surplus." 
The prit't' of natural gas could also 
have some afkct on currt·Jll politics, 
ht· said. "Tiwrc.: is a class of people 
who can't afford gas." 
Ridgeway addnl that right now in­
tt·rnational affairs art· overshadow­
ing the energy prohkm. 
(hit' reason gin·n hy Ridgeway as 
to why surpluses ot·cur lit's in the 
ditlkulty in determining the amount 
of enngy in the l ·nited States. 
"Tht·rt· has nt·ver htTn an attempt by 
tht· government to mt·asure our 
rt·st·rvc.:s. \X'e han· no idea of what 
wt· rt·ally own." he said. 
• • .Energy 
continuedfrom page 1 
llayes. "llt·ctust· of the synthesis of spokt·n English and ~ign language the NTD is abk to communicate to audientT~ with.a kind of depth and intt·nsity we han· never StTn hdort·." IIEAR INC., a local non­profit organization. is installing a spt't'ial Fi\1 transmittt·r in O'l.aughlin Auditorium h1r the performance. l't·oplt· who art· hard of ht·aring may hring a transistor radio wth them and pick up the audio portion of the play 1hrough an car plug on Fl\1 dwnnd IOH. Work on tht· device is ~ponsornl hy the Rotary Club of South lkntl. 
Ti(:kets f(>r the play c..·ost S'; for adults and S2 for students and senior citizens. Saint Mary's students arc admitted frn:, hut sttu.knts must pick up tickets prior to the pt·rfor­manct·. Tickets may he reserved hy calling the Saint ,\lai]·'s Ticket Office at 2H.f-46.U>. 
Secretary ofState George Shultz that the administration was not trying to overthrow the government in Managua. 
Instead, the officials told the com­mittee that hy aiding the rightist Nicaraguan rebels, the United States hopes to pressure the Sandinista~ in­to lessening or halting the military resupply of guerrilla movements in El Salvador and other countries. 
Intelligence sources who spoke on condition of anonymity said the S19 million likely will run out in three to six months, at which point the Senate intelligence panel would take another look at whether to ap­prove additional support. 
Transit Authority Bus Terminal in Buffalo. 
"I have to get to Bar Harbor by tomorrow," Louis Kowitch of Wash­ington, D.C., said after the Wnlnes­day midnight strike stranded her in Portland, Maine. "I've got a joh inter­view there. and if I don't make it, goodbye joh. I don't have enough money to go hy airplane, so I'll prohahly hitchhike." The strike left the I :~S-mile stretch between Portland and Bangor without any bus service. 
Rival companies added routes and buses and honored Greyhound tick­ets. Amtrak also accepted Greyhound tickets. But long passen­ger lines were reported in some places anyway. 

Trailways ticket 'clerk David Har­per said in Tucson, Ariz., that he was laid off two weeks ago hut was called hack to help. This normally is the slowest season of the year for inter­city hus travel. 
Greyhound will remain shut for two weeks and will "invite the employees to return to their jobs," said spokeswoman Dorothy l.orant. She said copies of Greyhound's tlnal offer -including wage cuts -were mailed to members of the striking Amalgamated Transit Workers. 
No talks were scheduled. Negotia­tions broke off Monday night, a few hours before expiration of a three­year contract. 


OPEN at noon -Outdoor BBQ "Happy Hour" 3-5 PM MIX DRINKS 2 for 1 Drafts ....soc 

Cosimo Hair Design 
18461 St. Rd. 23 277-1875 
Men: Regularly $14.95. Special Price $10 • Women: Regularly $20. Special Price $15 • 
• with coupon for Notre Dame students only 
Co-Designers Only: Men $7 Women $10 

AGOSTINO'S Welcome Football Fans & Local Patrons 
•...,.,,.• 
102 S. W1lnut St. South lind 


Your Favorite Cocktails, Family Rooms 
232-2494 

and Private EntrMCe. Banquet-Room•Tolce Eddy St., 1o 
Available with ~n to Create Your
s.n,N, tum Riflht 

Own Menu. 
on Wolrwt 


HELP WANTED 

Student or students to take over an 
established New lJ!ork Wimea campus route for fall term.\ Jobs duties include set up, selling and early­morning delivery of the 
New fnrk IDimts. 
For full details, please 
call NEW YORK TIMES 
at 1-800-621-0159. 
Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 4 
Conference Site 
Christian leader Suleiman Franjteh enters his car outside Inter­continental Hotel in Geneva, site of the Lebanese reconciliation conference Wednesday afternoon, after refusing to submit to security measures. 
Attention Seniors 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all 
those interested in working at the Senior Block Party. Meeting is on Monday, Nov. 7 · at 6:30 in the Little Theater. 
Please Attend! 
0 


N.D.S.U. Needs Poster Hangers 
& people to put up 
Table Tents 
in the dining halls Call239-7605 & leave your name and number for Ann \ 
___J) 


World Health Organization Listed Medical School 
Spartan Health Sciences University is located on the island of St. Lucia in the West Indies. Openings are still available in the Jan. 84 class. 
OFFERING 
•36 
month M.D. degree program 

• 
Instruction in English 


• 
Clinical clerkships in the U.S. 

• 
W.H.O. listed· students eligible to take the ECFMG exam 

• 
Graduates have been accepted to specialty training in U.S. hospitnls 

• 
Scholarships, loans, and bursaries are available 

• 
Transfers welcome 



Spartan Health Sciences University 
U.S. Office: P.O. Box 85 EIPaso,Texas79941 Phone 915·532·5890 Name___ _ ______ _ _ ____ _ Address _____________ 
City State ____ Zip -·-__ 
Phone~---~----------------­
Mail this coupon for more information. (We are formerly know as St. Lucia Health Sciences University) 
The Observer Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 5 

The U.S. flag flies at halfmast in the South Quad in front ofthe law building in memory ofltrst week's Beirut bombing. The toll of American marines killed in the attack on the U.S. military basebas risen to 2]0. 
Relief Hotel Manager Part Time Will Train 
Law or MBA :student preferred for a natit:>nal company Please call 233-·1 154 for appointment 


EAS1'RIDER 
TO AND FROU CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY 2 HiOURS EVERY DAY 

P----------~--------------,I 
I 
FALLIS HERE! I 
I I I I I I I 

I I I I I I I 
I 
II I I I I I I I I I I I I I
and so are sweaters and coats 

I I I at the best prices in town! I 
I 
Goodwill Plaza I 

I I
(across from Nickie's) 

I I
Mon-Thurs 9-7 PM Fri 9-8 PM Sat 9-6PM 

I I 
I I 
1 I 
L----------~--------------J 
Grenadian governor vows to name non-political transitional regime 
Associated Press 
ST. GEORGE'S, Grenada -the governor general of this troubled is­land nation said yesterday he will name a non-political transitional government by early next w~ek, and added that elections might not be held for a year. 
Sixteen Libyans, including four diplomats, left for London on a U.S. military plane. Preparations con­tinued to evacuate 49 Soviet citizens and members of the Cuban diplomatic mission, although the Cubans said they would not leave until the estimated 600 Cuban prisoners being held on Grenada are repatriated. 
After Governor General Sir Paul 

Scoon's order earlier this week that 
the Cubans leave the country, U.S. 
paratroopers surrounded the Cuban 
Embassy, not allowing anyone in or 
out except top officials taken under 
guard tG meetings with State Depart­
ment representatives. 
Scoon said the Cuban prisoners would leave in a day or two. The governor general is a 
Grenadian appointed to his largely ceremonial post by Britain's Queen Elizabeth II in her capacity as titular head ofstate ofGrenada and head of the Commonwealth. 
Scoon said the elections may not be held until this time next year be­cause it will take that long to set up a bureaucracy that can oversee voter registration and balloting. 
Charles Gillespie of the U.S. State 
Department said Bernard Coard and 
Gen. Hudson Austin, leaders of the 
bloody coup that precipitated the 
U.S.-led invasion of Grenada on Oct. 
25, would be turned over to 
Grenadian authorities in a day or so. 
Coard and Austin, who went into hiding but were captured last weekend, are being held on American helicopter aircraft carrier Saipan, off the coast. 
Roadblock checks for weapons in cars driven by Grenadians will con­tinue, Gillespie said, "until we're sure we've found everything there is to find." 
Officials also were preparing for 
the scheduled arrival today of a 
group of U.S. congressmen on a fact-
The Oar House Cold Beer& 

Liquor Carry Out Till3 am 
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
Live OJ and Dancing 
10-3 AM 
"TWO BARS" 


The HUNT is on I 
Which hall has the craziest floor? Will they be in Alumni? Dillon? Lewis? Holy Cross? Walsh? Regina? McCandless? Grace? 
The Picture man will be photographing all hall floors that enter. Deadline to enter Nov. 15 Deadline for photography Dec. 4 Official entry forms available from hall presidents 
GRAND PRIZE for the winning floor: $100 from the Picture Man All you can eat pizza & drinks from DOMINO'S PIZZA 
MEET WITH YOUR FLOOR AND ENTER TODAY! 

finding mission. 
As more American troops prepared to leave the island, Gil­lespie said he believes there will be "no need' for U.S. military presence here six months from now. 
Air Force Gen. Robert Patterson 

said 1,800 members of the Army's 
82nd Airborne Division would be 
flown out this morning. They are ex­
pected to return to the divisional 
base in Fort Bragg, N:c. 
President Reagan said in Washing­ton that all hostilities had ceased on Grenada. "Our objectives have been achieved, and as soon as logistics permit, American personnel will be leaving," Reagan said. 
Even before Reagan's announce­ment, military officials here said the number ofU.S. troops on Grenada­which peaked at 6,000 about a week ago -would dwindle to 3,000 by the end of the day. One thousand Marines who had been in the Oct. 25 invasion force left earlier in the week for Lebanon, and 2,000 more army troops were returning to Fort Bragg. 
Soviet sub suffers problems 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON A Soviet 

nuclear-powered attack submarine 
with unknown mechanical 
problems was bobbing in five-foot 
seas in the Atlantic Ocean 470 miles 
east of Charleston, S.C., yesterday, 
Pentagon officials said. 
The 341-fO<~t long sub has not 

issued a distress call or an "SOS," the 
Pentagon said, but was moving at on­
ly 2 knots -just enough to keep it 
headed into the wind. 
The sub was spotted early Wed­

nesday by a Navy P-3 Orion on 
routine anti-sub patrol from jack­
sonville, Fla., and was being watched 
by U.S. forces, Navy officials said. 
It is a Victor-3 class sub. a type first 

built in 1978. The Soviet Union 
began building the original Victor-! 
classsubsin 1967. 
Victor-3 subs, designed to hunt 

other ships, do not carry long-or 
intermediate-range nuclear 
weapons. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $ 4 Pitt Ga Tix Needed $
$ 
Price Negotiable $ 

$ Call Collect: Mike Mulligan $$ between 10·4 312-775-4427 $$ after 5 312-751·1111 $ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
UPTOWN FUNK 
BAND 
WITH Priscilla Phillips 
Thursday thru Saturday 
featuring Bill Boris 
winner of N.D. Collegiate 
Jazz Festival Award 
Featuring: 
Fresh Blue Point Oysters & 
Large Gulf Shrimp 
Jazz &Blues 6 nights a wee!( 
Open 5pm TUES. THRU SAT. 
7pmSUNDAY 





The Observer 

Birthday brigade 
Members of Notre Dame's naval ROTC corps listen to a speech in celebration ofthe combined 
Judge orders Atty. General to study CIA 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -A fnkral judj.ll' Yl"Stcrday ordcrnl Allorncy (icncral William Frl·nch Smith 10 in­n·Migatl' the CIA's covert auivities in war-torn Nicaragua to dl"tl·rmine whethl"f the agency had violatnl the 
Neutrality A1.:1.  
li.S.  Dbtrict  Judge  Stanley  A.  
Wil"gd  gave  Smith  'JO  days  10  
dcll-rmirll"  thl·  legality  of  

"paramilitary cxp<.:ditions" in that Cl·ntral Amcric-;m l·ourury or dse appoinr a spl·dal proscn11or for the inn·Migar ion. 
!lis ruling. in a lawsuit filed hy l J.S. lkp. Ronald\'. lkllums. D-Calif., and two woml·n, caml· as the Senate ap­ptovnl continued CIA support for rebels battlinj.l thl· ldtiM Samlinista gon·rnml·nr in Nicaragua. Thl· voii..T votl" set the stagl· ti1r a llousl··Senatl" conkn·ncl· commiun· ballk over whl·rhl·r the llnitnl States should hack some I 'i,OOO guerrillas, c~r­n·ntly supported hy the Reagan ad­ministration. 
The suir sought an order lilrdng Smith 10 study whl·thl"f tht· consent of the president and administration officials to paramilitary opl·rations violatt·d rhl' Nl·utrality Act. That law makl·s it a crimt· to oq~anize or launch a paramilitary expedition against a nllllltry with which the llnitnl Stall'S is not at war. 
The judge strcssl·d that his deci­sion malk no judgement on "whether or not any fnkral official has violatl·d any fednallaw." But he added that "it is the duty ofthl· attor­nl'Y general to invl·stigate" that pos­
sibility. 
Thl· Justice Dl·partment planned no comment until oftlcials in \X'ash­ington read the ruling, spokesman John Russell said. 
lkllums had dainlt·d in the suit tiled July H that Smith's rdusal to launch an inquiry c.kprivt:d him of his right as a congressman to vote on whetht·r the l lnitt·d Statt'S should makt· war on Nicaragua. 
UNIVERSITY CENTER Mon ·Sat 10-8:30 Sun 12-5 
McCarthy's EST.1983 
Mon: Monday Night Football ­Pitchers $2 during game 
N.D.

Tues: Two for One Draft Dome 
Two drafts .75  
Wed: Talent and Ladies Nite  NDAve.  
Happy Hourprices to ladies  
Thurs: Cheers Nite  - 
. 25 draftB-lOPM  Hill St.  
Fri: Pre-Game Nite  - *McCarthy's  
wake up the echoes with us!  
Sat: Sat. Morning Confusion ­ 

Irish Omelets $2.50; draft 7 AM .10 
up a dime every hour till noon 
Sat. Afternoon Pre-Game Warm-Up 
$2.00 pitchers 1·4:00 PM 
Uncle Vinnie Says: 

"You can't 4IO N. Hill Mon-Thurs Il:OO-I:OO Party Enough" Fri II:00-2:00 
Full line ofPub Grub served dai~y Sat 7:00AM-2:00AM 
Navy and Marine Corps· 208th birthday. Assistant Dean of the Law School W. 0. McLean was the keynote speaker for yesterday's ceremony in the library auditorium. 

Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 6 
Rev. Jackson officially announces candidacy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -the Rev. Jesse 
L. Jackson formally started his quest for the Democratic presidential nomination Yesterday, vowing to "give a voice to the voiceless, representation to the unrepresented and hope to the downtrodden." 
Jackson, only the second widely known black candidate to try for the presidency, is starting months and millions of dollars behind the seven white men also seeking the 19H4 Democratic nomination. 

The 42-year-old Baptist preacher and civil rights leader told more than .3,000 singingand ch t cering sup­porters he wants to win. But his 40­minute announcement speech also 
suggested  he  holds  no  illusions  
about  his  chance  of  being  the  
nominee.  

"My candidacy will be a quest for a just society and a peaceful world," he said. "My candidacy will help to change the present course ofour na­tion and to rekindle the dormant flames ofidealism for all Americans." 
He said his campaign would focus on forming a "rainbow coalition" ­blacks, Hispanics, other minorities, women and the poor -that would inspire millions of new voters to register and elect thousands of new officeholders. 
"''m not talking about one man 

no obligation eight weeks 
1027 E. Wayne 
.. : 232-8444 
: .. 
running for an office," he said. "It's 
about elevating the masses, the 
people." 

"If I got across the finish line first and my wagon was unhitched. I may have a gold medal hut I would be a loser. If I got across the line last. but my wagon was full of registrars and tax assessors and legislators and school board members and sheriffs ... it's about lifting the boats that arc stuck at the hottom." 
Jackson has never sought public office hefore. He gained national prominence as head of the Chicago­based PUSH, an organization that emphasizes black's efforts to hdp themselves. 
A protege of the late Martin Lut­
her King, Jackson stood ncar Presi­
dent Reagan at the White !louse on 
Wednesday as the president signed a 
hill making King's birthday a nation­
al holiday. 

Yesterday, he attacked the presi­dent's record. saying the answer to Reagan's key question in 19HO ­"are you better off today than you were four years ago?" is a resound­ing no. He said Reagan is "anti-black, anti-Hispanic, anti-civil rights, anti­woman." 
But Jackson also challenged the Democratic Party, labor unions and corporate America, saying there has to be a "new covenant" sharing the power and economic health of the nation with minorities. 


SUNNYSIDE BEVERAGES 
·------·---DRAFT BEER---·-------­BRAHD COST Of POSIT TOTAL
ACROSS STREET 

------------..-----------------------------------------­
FROM CAMPUS 1/2 BARREL PABST 29.50 
1340 S. Bend Ave. PABST Ill 30.50 ANDEr.ER J4.50 BLAII 27.00 OLD STilE ll.OO OLD STYLE L T J2.00 SP. EXPORT 35.00
234·1114 

OREWRYS 27.00 ~RAU11£1STER 25.00 AUGSBURGER JJ.OO HUBER 25.00
FREE POSTERS SCHLI Tl JJ.50 SCHLI Tl l T 12.50 OlD "'LWAUI:EE 29.00 OlD "ILWAUHE LT JO. 00 SCHLI Tl "AU llQUOR 34.00
OPEN~ TILL 

SCHLI T I DA~I 31.50 "OLSON TAX 5J.OO
5:00 Weekdays 

HARP ALREADY 
IO.OQ 

INCLUDED
~2:00 Saturdays KEG BAG 2.00 
HAND PIJIIP •~; ;!~~ ].00 CUPS 1/1001 4.00 ~:'~-~ CUP~ 1/CSE IOOOi 'UO
··~ 

GO IRISH!! ~~~ 118 LB ~61 2.50 
J.ft(l COIL ~01 5(1.00 ELECTRIC 801 tt bO.(•(I 
~OPSE IAN~ 1~.•)0 
b.OO JS. ~~ b.OO 3b. 50 b.OO 40-5(1 
b.OO n.~o b.OO J),qQ b. 00 38.00 b.O(I H.O<i b.OO JJ. 00 b.liO JJ. qo b.O~ Jl. 00 b. 00 !1.00 b.OO J:.SO b. 0(1 18. ~0 
b. 00 Js. on b. 00 lb. 00 b. 00 40. no b. 0(1 37. so b. 00 59.(1q 
b. no )b. 00 
2.00 JO. 00 13.00 4.00 
32 •.50 
2.50 
15.•.1(1 18.00 
70-00 1~0.1~n b(l. 00 
35. oo so.···~ 

The ObserVE~r Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 7 

APPboto

King's Day 
President Reagan and Vice-President George Bush escort Caretta Scott King at the start ofceremonies in the Rose Garden Wednes­day, where Reagan signed into law a holiday commemorating Martin Luther Kingjr.'s bir,~hday. 
MATH (MAJORS/MINORS/APTITUDE) ... 
Yourr4~ Needed All ()verthe \\forid. 
Ask Peace Corps Moth volunteers why their degrees ore needed in the classrooms of the world's developing notions. Ask them why ingenuity and flexibility ore as vital as adopting to a different culture. ThE•y'll tell you their students know Moth is the key ro a solid future. And they'll tell you -that Peace Corps •· odds up to a career exp•:-rience full of rewords and ac­complishments. Ask them why Peace Corps is the toughest job you'll ever love. 
Peace Corps Reps on Campus Nov. &, 9 &10. =nterested Seniors sign up for ~nterview in the Placement Office 
PEAC:E CORPS 


Audit of Mishawaka license branch reveals faulty processing procedure 
Associated Press 
MISHAWAKA, Ind. -a state auditor said yesterday that "hundreds of transactions" at the Mishawaka license branch were not processed through the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in Indianapolis. 
An audit by the State Board of Ac­counts earlier this year showed 5244,000 in branch funds missing. After the, state audits were com­pleted, the branch closed last month and its manager, Don W. Sprague, resigned. 
Under Indiana law, profits from 
the sale of license plates go to the 
party ofthe sitting governor after ex­
penses are deducted. Sprague is the 
former Mishawaka GOP chairman. 
This patronage system has been a major bone of contention in state politics this year, including the upcoming South Bend mayoral elec­tion. 
Michael A. Claytor ofthe accounts board said the lack of data has made it difficult for state officials to reconcile a plate-by-plate inventory ofthe branch recently completed by state auditors. 
Meanwhile, two search warrants 
unsealed Wednesday allege that 
Sprague received cash payments 
from license plate fees and paid per­
sonal expenses from a branch hank 
account. 
Sworn statements with the search warrants indicate police are suspi­cious ofirregular transfers ofmoney, the South Bend Tribune reported Thursday. 
Claytor, who said he was unaware of the search warrants or of any ir­regularities in fund transfers within the branch. explained BMV records indicated "a certain number of plates should be sitting on the shelf (at the branch) as unsold." Those plates appear to he missing, he said. 
"There are just so many excep­tions," Claytor said of the inventory. "Things that just don't match." 
One search warrant unsealed Wednesday sought from the license branch a black t ledger book contain­ing names of people and the license plates issued to them. The warrant also sought fund transfer reports for the bureau from Jan. I, 1982 to Sept. 30, 1983. 
The other warrant sought copies of the license branch's canceled checks, desposit and withdrawal records and other financial transac­tions from 1982 and 198~. 
The search warrants were accom­panied by affadavits from William Sorukas, a state police detective. based on interviews with Sprague, branch office managerJane Byrd and other employees. 
Sorukas said Byrd admitted cross­ing out notes on fund transfer 


~ 
~) 


GO IRISH!! .......... POUND PITT!! 

Fireworks &,Bonfire 
(8:30 est) (9:00 est.) 
following the pep rallv. 

r---------------------------------------1
iGENERAL MILLS !
I"An Unexpected World of I
i I  Opportunities in Finance"1  
Tuesday, Nov. 8, Morris Inn, 7-9 pm Seniors & Juniors Welcome  

Presented by: Steve Waller Controller, Golden Valley Div 
I 
Also AHending: Stanley Mam Recruiting Manager Reception FoUowing Presentation 

·--------------------------------------­
reports indicating Sprague received various amounts of cash. Byrd also admitted giving Sprague the cash amounts recorded. 
Sorukas noted the total amount of notations, according to state auditors, was about S I ~2.000, an amount identified as going into branch cash registers hut not deposited into any branch account. 
The warrants wen~ scaled when issued two weeks 'ago. St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes said he thought some witnesses "might be harassed or intimidated," which might "impede the progress of the investigation." 
He asked a Superior Court judge to unseal the documents Wednes­day because he thought the inves­tigation was far enough along that the chance of intimidation was diminished. 
New watches may save soldier's lives 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas -Resear­

chers have started work on a medi­
cal monitoring device that, when 
worn like a wrist watch, could help 
rescue workers locate and care for 
soldiers wounded in battle, a Purdue 
University scientist says. 
The device, caled a Personal 

Monitor and c;ommunicator, would 
establish whether a soldier was con­
scious and relay vital information 
about his condition to medical 
workers, said Dr. Willis Tacker, 
research scientist at Purdue Univer­
sity's Biomedical Engineering Cen­
ter. 
Tacker, the director of the 

project, announced the develop­
ment plans here during a meeting of 
the Association of Military Surgeons. 
A prototype system could be available in three years after techni­cal problems in security and electronics are ironed out, he said Wednesday. 
"The device will act as a two-way 

transmitter, capable ofreceiving sig­
nals and relaying information back 
to a receiver," Tacker said. "The 
transmission will tell medics where 
a wounded person is located and 
how badly he is injured." 
The device also could be used to 

locate soldiers buried under rubble, 
such as in the recent Beirut blast, 
which claimed the lives of more 
than 230 servicemen, Tacker said. 
"The personal monitors could tell rescue workers how many persons were involved, how badly they were injured and where wounded in­dividuals may be located to speed up rescue attempts," he said. 
The monitoring device could be activated by medics from field hospitals, military ambulances, helicopters or on the battlefield by using a remote transmitter, the scientist said. 
Upon command, two electrodes placed on the back of the device would send a mild stimulus to the wearer, and those who were not injured could push a button to report on their conditions, Tacker said. 
Ifthe button was not pushed, sen­

sors in the device automatically 
would start monitoring the soldier's 
heart rate, body temperature and 
movement, he said. 
The medics also could use a video display that would indicate a sol­dier's position and condition, Tack: ersaid. 
"Medics will interpret this information to determine whether the person is slightly injured, criti­cally wounded or dead," he said. 

Vieweoint 
Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 8 
Hong Kong's questionable future 
It will hl' intl·rt:sting to st:c how Great Britain and thl· l'l·opk's lkpuhlic of China resolve tht: Hong Kong b~ut:. Perclll'd at tht: doorstt:p of<:ommunbt China and lying in the crossroads of Asia i~ thl· British Crown Colony of Ilong Kong. 
Francis J. James ] 
Eye on the East 

This small capitalistic enclave, a remnant of the British l·mpire, will hLcome tht.· focal point of world attention more often as the in­tcrn.ttional community waits to sec how China attempts to regain sovreignty over the colony. 
llong Kong is an anomaly in itself. Situated on thl· Chint:sc mainland, !long Kong opt·rates as a capitalistic haven with the tacit approval of the largest Communist power, its idl·ological adversary. It is an exotic fast· 
A voiding wrong and not doing right 
Whik in l'ul·rto Rico I engaged in one of my favorite l'ntt.·rtainml·nts -watt.·hing tdl·vision. What I was watching is not really important, what was important was the message. 
AbiudAmaro 
Guest Opinion 

:\ charming. single man was daring an equal· ly charming. singk woman. They stopped going out when thl· man discovered she wa.o; a nun. Not very courtnmsly, the man cut her out of his lifl·. 
Shl· had to confront him. Sht· nlllldn't un­dl·r~taml why hl· would not even considl·r her as a frkml. l"Vl'n though she happened to he a nun. Tht:y argunl until finally the nun told him that he wa.., just another arch· t.·onst·rvativt· Irish Catholic. The man 
rn:ognized his mistake. lie accepted her as a 
friend. 
I do not blame him hct:ausc I probably would havt· reat:tcd in the samt· way. The rl·al·tion, howt.·vl·r. is a mistake. The man changl·d his rdationship with hl·r blTause he knl"W there would hl· many thing.o; he could not do with lll'r. Instt·ad of seeing her good silk, he found lll·r shortt.·omings. Good old Catholic guilt intlul'IKed him heavily. Instead of ~lTing what hl· could do, he saw what hl· could not do. At Notrl' Dame one finds a ddlnitiVl' Catholic atmo~pherc. What will it Ill", the had< :atholidsm ofguilt or the positivl· <:atholidsm of thl· nun·' It depends on what paced place where Ea'it meets West and busi· ness is king. 
It sometimes seems as if Hong Kong's sole purpose is business. This is not an inaccurate view of its history. The island of Hong Kong and the adjacent Kowloon Peninsula were ceded to the British by China a'> a conse­quencc ofthe Opium Wars in the mid IBOO's, and the New Territories were leased for 99 years from the Chinese in 189H. 
From the very beginning Hong Kong was a convenient entrepot between China and the West, and its wealth was founded on this trade. Even today, almost half of China's foreign exchange is from Hong Kong. 
Manufacturing has also become a major source ofincome for the colony. Today Hong Kong is the third largest financial center in the world after New York and London. It serves as the banking and financial hub ofAsia. 
In fourteen years this British colony will revert back to Peking's control. How the 
you are here for. If you arc here for studyin;: you arc probably on the positive side. If ym' art: here to administer, you arc probably on the side ofthe ignorant playboy. 
Check out the communications from the Golden Dome. Our good Dean of Students tells us where we cannot bring kegs and what we cannot do at parties, Our social life (wherever it might be) is further crippled by the administration's attitude toward a decent swdcnt center. They fear that students may not usc the center as expected. Is this good administration? 
No, it isn't. It suffers from a major disease. Instead of trying to do what is right the ad· ministration is tries to avoid wrong. Instead of telling students what they cannot do, why not suggest what they can do, where they can go, what facilities they can usc? Why not try to fix a problem that even our illustrious president admits is had~ 
Our students, however, are not from the same mold a'> our administrators. The stu­dents' openness and desire to be responsible differs greatly from the administration's spirit ofguilt. 
This is why some Domcrs have a love-hate 
rdationship with th~'i\~ivcrsity. This is why 
some people say the lx.-st view ofthe Dome is 
from the rear-view mirror. This is why some 
people -like me -have concluded that. 
were it not for the people of this university, 
they would have transferred a long time ago 
It is a pity. In the tdcvision show, the 
couple did have a good time after the man 
overcame the limitations ofhis tunnel vision. I 
gul·ss happy endings only happen on the tube. 
H11.\· {}. N1 •tr-t• I )ami'. If\' ·1(, ')')(I (.! /'}) .!J<J-'i"JOJ 
nw Oh.Wrt'l'T ·~ tht• llltkpt·mknt nl·w~paplT puhli~ht·d h\ tht• ~tUdl'ntS of the Uni­n·r~lt\" of Notn· J>anll" du l.ac and Samt Marv·~ Colkgt·. It dol·~ not nclT~sarih· rcflct.·t tht· poliul·~ of !Ill" admm1~tration of l'ither institution. The news i~ rcportt·d as at· curatdy ami as ohtt"l"li\Tlv a~ po~~ihk l·n~•gnt.·d cditoriab rt·prt.·scnt the opinon of a m;1forn}· ol the hhtonal Board Commt·ntant·~. Jeuer~. and thl· Insidl· Column pn·scnt tht· new., of their authors ( ,olumn span· is a\·a,Jahk to all mt·mrn:r~oftht· n•mmunit\·. . mel till" frt'l't'xpn·s~lon of\·arnngopimon~onl·ampu~. through lt:ttcr~. i~cnn>uragcd. 
Managing Editor ............. Margaret fosmoe Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzaum: La Croix Saini Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto Features Editor . ............... Sarah HamilloA System Manager ............... Kevin Williams Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower· 
Sports Editor . . . ..... \lichad Sullivan . Founded November 3, 1966 British and Chinese governments plan to af. feet this transition is the most pressing ques­tion for the people of Hong Kong. What will the future status ofthe colony be and how will it affect their present lifestyles? 
A large percentage of the population offive milUon purposely left China to escape com· munism, and now they are fdced once again with that ominous threat. Will it be possible for Hong Kong to maintain its open capitalist philosophy under direct communist control? 
The pany leade,rs in Peking ha·•e promised not to alter the system but to make the area into a special economic zone wherein the people would retain a certain degree of autonomy, freedom and other privileges. 
These a..surances, however, and occasional veiled threats that China can takeover its sovereign territory at any time has done little to allay the fears of the Hong Kong resi<Jents. The economy is experiencing a serious downturn as investors are increasingly wary 

r---------------------~--~------~~--~~-----------, 

K of C coverage 
Dear Editor: 
On September 2S, we (KOC) 
drafted Resolution 104. The bill had a dual 
purpose: to alleviate social space discrimina­
tion in the South Quad and to promote 
responsible alcohol use by students. The bill 
also would have allowed the KOC more 
Hexibility in uses ofits space, something both 
the Knights and the administration supported. 
Some students backed it strongly (see Eric 
Scheeman's letter to the editor 10/7/83). We 
arc glad to have supported Resolution I04 and only regret that it was not given a fair chance for debate between the students and the administration. 
from September 26 through October 14, The Obseroer created the "Knights of Columbus controversy. "By acting irrespon­sibly, The Obsen1er reporters helped destroy a necessary student government bill." 
If Resolution 104 was so good, why did it become controversial and why was it subse­quently defeated? The answer is because The Observer practiced poor journalism, which caused the KOC, student senate and Dean Roemer to view each other with undue suspicion. 
Let us present some examples of the poor coverage the KOC issue received: 
I )The Obsen•er. due to a lack ofcampus ac­tivity, took a simple issue and made it con­troversial. By doing this The Observer seemed to be interested only in exciting its readers with the KOC issue. A newspaper's main ob­jective is to inform, not to excite. Even Mar­garet Fosmoc refers to this in her 10/11/83 editorial. 
2 )The Obsen1er took an impt>rtant campus issue and dealt with it superficially. It never attempted an in-depth analysis of the KOC issue. Instead of analyzing the merits of Resolution 104, which would have been the proper thing to do, The Observer sen­sationalized the issue by publishinggossip and hcrcsay. The Observer acted in a manner similar to that ofsupermarket tabloids. 
3) In several articles, especially Michael Chmiels' ( I 0/ I0/83), the reporting was un­fair to the parties involved and to the readers. Quott."S were not verified, and people who were criticized were never contacted for comment. For example, it wao; rept>rtcd that "the resolution was passed without consult­ing the Knights of Columbus." If Mr. Chmiel had checked with all ofthe parties involved he would have known that the KOC knew about 

ofinvesting in an uncenain future. 
Capital a'iscts are being withdrawn from the colony and the Hong Kong dollar has taken a severe beatingdue to this crisis ofconfidence. lbcre is an increasing sense of paranoia, an "abandon the sinking ship" attitude, as the up­per and educated cla'is emigrate in increa'iing numbers to more stable futures in the United 
States, Canada or Australia. 
Ifone looks at past history for an indication ofChina's directive, the colony's future is dim. The pt>rt city of Shanghai surpa'>scd Hong Kong's present stature during the early 1900's. Since the communist takeover, Shan­ghai has become a shadow of its past mag· nificence. Hong Kong and its free-wheeling brand of capitalism hardly seems compatible with a communist doctrine. _ China will surely assert sovereignty in 1997 if not sooner, but just what that will mean no one knows. Catch it while you still can. There's really no other place like it! 
quently the public was misinformed on a cru· 
cia! point. 
We aredisapointcd that Resolution 104 wao; 
never given a chance. Although the bill would 
have improved campus life, this is no longer 
the issue. The issue is that The Observer, at 
times, practices irresponsible journalism and 
produces superficial, not in-depth, articles. 
Hopefully, in the future the editorial staff of 
The Observer will only publish well· 
researched stories. Ifthe staffdoes not want to 
do this, the least they can do is to stop the 
presses. No news is better than misleading 
news. 
David MeA uoyjoe Anthony 

Editor's note: The Observer stands behind 
thefairness and accuracy ofall stories writ· 
ten on this issue. The Senate, the Knights and 
Dean Roemer were all given a chance to 
speak. The paper also stands behind Michael 
Chmiel's article and his statement that the 
Knights bad only one hour's notice that the 
bill would be considered. Chmiel's inter· 
views with Mr. Anthony were taped, and thus 
the quotes were verified. 
Reagan rhetoric 
DearEditor: 
Thomas Gregg's left-handed defense of the Reagan foreign policy is a model of con· servative cynicism. Obviously, the problem with this administration's view ofworld affairs does not spring from "the demands ofdomes· tic politics," but rather from the constraintsof Reagan's own addiction to ideology. After all, it is Reagan, not the bulk of the American public, who believes that the world's obscure and intricate problems arc reducible to a struggle "between right and wrong and good and evil, and we arc enjoined hy Scripture and the I.ordjcsus to oppose it with all our might." 
Like so many conservatives, Mr. Gregg un­derestimates the inteUigcncc of his fellow Americans. In fact, it is precisely the demands of public opinion which have restrained the President's trigger finger in Central America, compelled him to pursue relations with main­land China, ;u,d even prodded him into taking a few perfunctory steps in the direction of arms control. "The sober, second thought of the people," said Martin Van Buren, "is never wrong, and always efficient." In any case, it is a great deal shrewder and more subtle than the fantasies which turn up these days in Presidential addresses. 
Rev. Isaac McDaniel, O.S.B. 

Editorial Board Department Managers "....11;:======== Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic 


' 

Sophomore tailback Allen Pinkett leads NO charge THir~K PINK: as he begins adding his name to Irish record book 

By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
Last year, what many experts felt was one ofthe best crops 
offreshman running backs to come around in a long time 
made a major mark on the college football scene. Players like 
Marcus Dupree ofOklahoma, Dalton Hilliard of L.S.U., and Bo 
Jackson ofAuburn were com;tantly the focus ofattention. 
But. beginning on November 6, 1982, another freshman 
made a major mark and forced the experts and media to begin 
to think "Pink"-Pinkett, that is, as in Irish tailback Allen 
Pinkett. On that day, Pinkett nn for two fourth-quarter touch­
downs to lead Notre Dame to a 31-16 upset ofthen-No. 1 Pitt. 
Since then, Pinkett has run hi!, way into the hearts oflrish fans 
and into the pages of the Notre Dame record book. 
"IfAllen Pinkett is stopped, then Irish eyes won't he 
smiling," wrote Doug Looney ofSp'orts Illustrated. 
Robert Markus oftheChicago Tribune reported that, "Allen 
Pinkett has led Notre Dame from the brink ofoblivion." 
At 5-9, 184 pounds, Pinkett hardly would seem to be the 
one to carry the burden on his shoulders. He would be the first 
to admit that statements such as the ones above are grossly ex­
aggerated. However, it is tru<~ that his performance is one of 
the major reasons that Notre Dame is back in the hunt for a 
major bowl bid. He may be small, but opponents have dis­
covered that looks are deceptive. "Allen has got a lot ofpride 
and a big heart," says first-year running back coach Mal Moore, 
whose transition from offensive coordinator under Bear 
Bryant at Alabama to backfield coach on Gerry Faust's staffhas 
been made much easier by his star pupil. "Football is impor­
tant to him and this team is important to him." 
One look at Pinkett's statistics this year will make it obvious 
that he is very important to the team. He has rushed for 100 
yards or more in seven ofthe eight games this year, tying the 
Notre Dame record for most 100-yard games in a season. He 
All-American Bill Fralic Pitt's massive tackle 

stood for. Not just because he won, but also because it was a 
good organization. Ididn't know anything about the school it­self, but that didn't matter. I remember seeingsome special on '60 Minutes' on Coach Hayes and Ohio State. They showed the coach teaching psychology or philosophy. I just remember him discussing the word 'apathy,' but I always had this dream ofplaying for him." 
Maybe Ohio State should have listened to Hayes' speech on apathy, because its apathetic attitude toward Pinkett eventual­ly reduced his dreaming. "After Woody Hayes left, my feelings about Ohio State went down. They went down even more when Ohio State didn't really recruit me." Maryland and North Carolina did, though. and it appeared that Pinkett might become a Tar Heel -until Notre Dame entered the picture months after every other school. 

"I never thought Notre Dame would recruit me." says Pinkett. "In fact, I was not too fond ofNotre Dame at that point because they always won. They were like the Dallas Cowboys. 
While a lot of teams contacted me in the spring of my sopho­
Allen Pinkett 
more year, Notre Dame waited until November of my senior year. It was the last school to contact me. I was impressed, though, that they were interested even a little.
currently stands sixth in the nation in rushing offense at.d 
"December 1 was the first day that schools could actuallyranks ninth among all-purpose runners. He also is among the visit you and Notre Dame was the first at my doorstep.
scoring leaders with 12 touchdowns. Only a sophomore, he Carolina was still my first choice, though, until I came up to appears to be on a course that would make him the all-time Notre Dame on January 15, 1982. It was so cold that the hairsleading rusher in Notre Dame history, passing the_current in your nose would freeze as soon as you stepped outside. Butleader, Vagas Ferguson. 
I liked the nice family atmosphere, there weren't any cliques, and the Dome was real pretty. NO took the No. 1 slot aftei" theOhio State and North Carolina are probably kicking them­visit even though I had visited Carolina five times unofficiallyselves that Pinkett got away. The Tar Heels were the final by then. There were just too many pretty women at Carolina.
losers in the recruiting battle for the native ofSterling, Va., a It would keep·me away from my work."
town about 30 miles west ofWashington. However, it was In what may go down as one ofthe more successful recruit-
Ohio State that Pinkett rooted for as he grew up. "I had dreams ofplaying for Woody Hayes," explains 
see PINKETT, page 11
Pinkett. "I was in eighth or ninth grade, and I liked what he 
The Incredible Hulk 
Bill Fralic continues to plow along 
By MARK A. SINDLER Those, too, were the years when current 
Sports Editor prosjimbo Covert, Russ Grimm, Mark May, 
The Pitt News and Emil Boures anchored an immovable 
line. Clearly stated, Fralic will likely surpass 
Eight and a half minutes remained in the even their highly-rated talent. football game, Pitt hanging on for dear life "I never tried to imitate anybody or any­and leading Florida State, 1 7-16, five thing," the homegrown Fralic from subur­weekends ago. Pitt quarterbackJohn Con­ban Penn Hills says. "I feel fortunate they've gemi was having problems restarting a been here before me to establish a tradition sputtering machine all afternoon. because, since Coach (Joe) Moore (Pitt's of­
So it was with great trepidation that he fensive coordinator) has been here, he's started out for his own 12, hoping just to turned ouroffensive line into one ofthe best keep the ball away from the explosive in the country year in and year out." Seminoles. His strategy was obvious -slug Fralic came to Pitt in I 9R I and proceeded it out on the ground and pray the clock to become the first freshman to start for the expires in the doing. Panthers since Heisman Trophy winner 
What followed turned into an awesome Tony Dorsett in I973. While a frosh. Fralic display ofpower. In that 19-play drive which earned the coaches' "Offensive Player of the Congemi executed, there were 12 handoff~ Game" award in a 29-24 victory over Boston to tailbackJoe McCall, all off-tackle com­College, the first such honor for an offensive binations. The power didn't come from lineman since the dinosaur age. McCall, though. This year. Fralic picked up the award for 
Instead the spotlight was glaring down at the second time this season for his Bill Fralic, Pitt's behemoth ofa left tackle at commanding performance against Florida 6-5, 290 pounds. This prize bedrock per­State. formed on that Saturday afternoon in Pitt Although it may seem obviou·s that weight Stadium just as has been his custom ever training affords Fralic a Superman-like since a college scout mistook him for a high presence in perfecting run-and pass­school junior when he was in eigth grade. blocking technique, his 500 lb.-plus bench 
Nowadays, this serious contender for the press is merely complemented by a mental Outland and Lombardi Trophies -awarded factor. annually to the nation's premier lineman -"Weight is the main thing," Fralic said, is regarded in an equal light. "hut your head is the most important thing 
"As a freshman, Fralic looked like a third­playing football. You can be the biggest, year pro," s t aid Navy coach Gary Tranquill. strongest guy in the country, but that , "He could be the best there is." doesn't mean you're a good football player. 
Funny, former Pitt head coach jackie "It takes a lot ofself-confidence and a lot Sherill showered similar praise upon Fralic. ofaggressiveness. It's a mixture ofthings." 
"Ifhe improves like everyone else, we To better understand the Fralic may not ever see another player like that," Philosophy, and accordingly apply it to com­said Sherril. bat in the trenches, last week's nail-biter 
That was two years ago when Fralic was an 18-year old freshman. 

see FRALIC, page 10 

PlnSBURGH Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 10 
Coming down the homestretch 
Irish must avoid late-season slump against Pitt 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Vmrts lf'rilt'r 
Ikading into the homt· stretch of lht: 
I'JH.~ season, the Notre DanJl' fi>othall tl'<lfll 
hopes to avoid th~· late season collapse that 
has prevented it from garnering a howl hid 
in lhrt'l' oft he last four years. 
Since I')7'), the Irish .\port a 5-') red>rd in their final thrt-c: games of tht· sc.·ason (including a ~ugar Bowl loss iJ' I'JHO ). With Pittsburgh. Penn Stall', ami Air Force slated as till" final thrn· n·gular season games, the Irish will htc.'l' another formidable late­season chalkngc.· this year. 
"Thb is what it's all about -the nt·xt thrn· Wl'l'ks, with Pill corning in here Satur­day and Pn111 State and Air Force coming up as lhe next two gamc.·s," says Notre Daml· Ilead< :oadl (il·rrv Faust. "We'vl' worked hard to improve each week, am! these thrn· games will bl· a good measuring stick fi>r us to Sl'l' how good a fiH>!hall team we can he. 
"Pitt obviously is in nearly till' samt: posi­
tion. l.aM yt·ar Wl' lost PUr last three games, 
so I thin!-.. our playl·rs h. now what it can mean 
if we can rl·n-rse that situation." 
Although the Panthers lost l·i starters 
from last }Tar's learn that was ranked No. 
li>r most of the rc.·gular season -hdi>rc 
losing to Notre Dame in till' eighth gaml· ­
the team still has outstanding taknt. Like tht· 
Irish, till' Panthc.-rs own a 6-2 record. After 
losing hack-to-hack heartbreakers to No. 7 
Maryland ( 15-.,) and No. 14 West Virginia ( 2·1·21 ), Fogt· Fazio's troops have come hack to win thdr last four in a row. 
"I wouldn't c.·xpel't Foge to have many prohkms motivating his players this week," says Faust. ''I'm sure they'll remember that Wl' knockt·d tht·m off the first time last year. Pill's tt·am really st·cms to have come around during tht· last month -a lot like our team." 
Ovnall, the prognosis for tht· game looks to hl' a "rock-em. sock-em" affair, according to Navy Ill-ad Coach (iary Tranquil, who had to face hoth teams in conscc.·utivc weeks. 
When Pittsburgh lines up on olknse, they will he led by what many coaches, scouts, and ohsl·rvers throughout the nation believe is one ofthe most irrcsistahle forces to ever put on a fiJOthalluniform. Junior offensive tackle Bill Fralic, who last year became the tirst sophomore offensive lineman in rec.·ent llll'mory to gain frist-string all-America honors, has been the mainstay who has l'nahkd Pill to cope with the losses ofsuch 
outstanding taknl on offense as quarterback 

Dan Marino, split end.Julius Dawkins, and tackleJimho Covert. 
lkspite Fralic's presence, Pittsburgh's of fcnsivc line will ht: grt:atly tested hy Notrt: Dame's rejuvl·natcd ddl·nsiVl' line. Three sophomores start in the Pitt offensive line. and thl'Y will have to ward otf a rush by the 
Irish that consistently pressured USC's Sean Sali.,hury and Tim (ircen into had passes two weeks ago, and one that sacked Navy quar­terback Rick Williamson sen·n times last week. 
Faust has also bt:en impressed with the devdopmt:nt of freshmen Mike Kovaleski and Troy Wilson at the inside linebacker and l'OrlltThal·k positions, and the blossomingof sophomore Tony Furjanic at the other inside lint·backer position. 
"I can't say ~·nough about our deft·nse," praises Faust. "Wl· had somt: worrit:s there early in tht· st:ason. but some ofour younger players have really maturt·ll. Our secondary hasn't allownl a touchdo-wn pass the last fiVl' games, and that's even with our captain, Stan·y Toran, out most of that I ime." 
The Notre Danll' deknsl' currently ranks third in the nation in total defense, and has allowed only 27 points in the last t1ve games. 
The skill positions on otlense for Pitts­burgh st•t·m like a carbon-copy of Notre Dame's. Although the Panthers don't have an Allen Pinkett at tailback, they do have a young outstanding prospect at quarterback, a great one-two junior punch at fullback, and a well-balanced receiving corps. 
Sophomore John Congemi has taken over the quarterbacking chores which belonged the previous four years to Marino. He has completed I 0 1-of-1 82 passes this year for 1,1 :B yards, eight touchdowns and six inter­ceptions, while guiding the well-balanced Panther offense. His favorite receivers arc speedy flanker Dwight Collins, who has caught 2'; passes for .H3 yards and four touchdowns, and Bill Wallace, who has latl:hcd onto 19 passes for .H3 yards and ti>Ur more touchdowns. Collins may not he healthy enough to play Saturday, however. 
Junior fullbacks Marc Bailey ami Marlon Mclmyre have split time at fullback this year. Bailey leads the team in rushing with 366 yards and has averaged almost six yards a carry. Mcintyre, meanwhile, has picked up 290 yards on his 57 carries. 
At the halfback position, seniorJoe McCall has split time with freshman Chuck Scales. McCall's 83 carries leads the team, but he is second to Bailey in rushing with 346 yards. Scales has picked up 213 yards on his 50 carries. 
Defensively, the Panthers are quite sound and cxpcrit:nced as I 0 of their I I starters are t'ither juniors or seniors. It is a defense that has givl·n up points grudgingly to some of the tinl·r offensive teams in the nation. Against three ofthe more explosive offenses in the nation -Tennessee, Maryland, and Florida ~tah: -the Panthers yielded a combined total of two touchdowm· 
While Fralic is considered by many to be the top offensive lineman in the nation, senior defensive tackle Bill Maas, also a tlrst string all-America last year, is considered by many to he the tincst defensive lineman in the country. Maas, along with end AI Wenglikowski, help to form a very strong front line against a Notre Dame oflensivc line that has also been crushing pt·ople of late. 
Three-year starter Tom Flynn returns at safety and is another bonafide all-America candidate ti>r Pitt this year. It was when Flynn was removed with an injury in last year's game against Notre Dame that the Irish took the lead on a tlca-llicker toJoe lloward. Flynn is also one of the t1nest punt returners in the nation. 
How Notre Dame's tremendous ground gamt· fares on Saturday against the Panther defense may spell the ditkrence between victory and defeat in what is expected to he a low-scoring, hard-hitting affair. Pitt has allowed only an average of 133 rushing yards a game this year, but it did give up 177 yards to Navy's Napoleon McCallum two weeks ago. 
If the Notre Dame offensive line can do the job it has the last weeks, it could mean another big day ti>r the nation's No. 6 rusher, Pinkett. The 5-9, 184-pound sopho­more tailback needs only 102 yards to become the third Notre Dame back in his­tory to gain over 1,000 yards in a season. 
"We're not an overpowering offensive team, but it has been tough for other teams to shut offour ability to run," says Faust, "And Steve ( Beuerlein) has proved he can throw the hall as much as we need to put it up. 
"I feel like we're in a good position heading into November," says Faust. "We've played well the last month and proved we're still a good football team." 
The real proof, however, will come in these next three weeks when the Notre Dame football team will try to conquer the late-season jinx that has plagued it the last four years. 


.... 
I ., I 
,, ~ 
.•jl 
,. 
*l ~,,•. jl 



continued from page 9 
against Syracuse which Pitt won in the final 
seconds provides the perfect backdrop. 
"I can gl'l a lot better," l'ralic said without twitching. "Attn a game like this, I'm happy Wl' won. but it's hard li>r me not to think of all the plays I screwed up. Even your great players-Jim Brown. say-they didn't get thlTl' by being satisfied. Everybody has good plays, but the people who minimize the bad plavs arc the ones you hear about. 

, 
"lfyou don't let them hothn you, then 
, 
that's whl·n you start making •nore and more .( had plays. It's tough ti>r me not to get that 


.. out of my mind. Mistakl·s. If you lose. that's when they rcallv irritate you." Still. ,\loorc knows a lot ht'tll'r than to overlook his on·rall ability. 
· Bill Fralic b simply a gr,·at. great ti>othall playc.-r... Moorl' says. "As a frt·shman. his pass­blocking was unhclievahlt-. In his sopho­more rear. his pass-bl()(:king improvnl. As a freshman, his run-blocking was outstanding. !lis sophomore year. hl· improved Ius run­hlocidng. 

Ifhe continues to make the same improve­ment, I feel he has a chance to become one of the greatest, if not the greatest, offensive lineman to play the college game. 
"He is the best tackle in the country. He possesses all the tools. How well hedevelops now depends on his own personal motivation." 


Last season, Fralic developed so much that he more than seriously entertained thoughts ofclosing the bridgehead between Pitt and the llnited States Football League. The infant kague rapidly cswblishcd itself upon sig­ning llcrschel Walker, then the NCAA's latest premier running hack. 
In Fralic. they saw the chance to gc.·t the NCAA's premier lineman. 
"At that time. I was allt·xcitcd about get­tingpaid to play ti>othall," Fralk recalls c)f this past spring. "They mentioned my name in l 1.\A Today about being one of the people they (the llSFL) would go aftl·r. I got excited about it. 
"But af'tt-r I sat down and thought about it a little while. it sort ofdied down. After no­thing happened after a coupk ofwc.-cks. I was thinking of myself as perfectly happy here." 
Fralic admits that his plans ofreturningti>r his senior year still remain intact. But he can­not shake the feeling that hi is rights are somd10w being violated. 
"My nghts \verc infringed upon last year," he says, referring to the unwritten rule that college liJOthall players remain in school a fullli>ur years bdi>rc turning pro. "I didn't really care, but I could sc·e how it umld. I don't thi:lk it's right. If certain people might not want to do that (be forced to play four 


PlnSBURGH Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 11,_ 

The man behind the scenes 
Neil Maune makes life easier for better-known teammates 

ten about and, and y's 's great." that exact 
continued from page 9 
ing days in Notre Dame football history, Notre Dame received verbal commitments from Pinkett and standout lineman Eric Dorsey on the same day. It wasn't long before Notre Dame began to think "Pink.., 
• 
When you are an incomingfreshman tailback and find a for­mer all-America candidate (Phil Carter) and a very talented junior (Greg Bell) in front ofyou, you usually do not have hopes for seeing a gr,~at deal ofaction. Pinkett was no excep­tion. "My idea of playing as a freshman was playing on special teams and getting in en blowouts. I just hoped that when I was a sophomore I could compete for a starting spot. I was very patient. I knew Bell a11d Carter were ahead of me, so I didn't expect much." 
Well, there were not any blowouts, but the job ofkick retur­ner was available. Th<:n, in the second game of the season against Purdue, Bell broke his ankle and was sidelined for the year. That put Pinketl at second string bepind Carter who did not have the size to take punishment for the entire game. When opportunity knocked, Pinkett was ready. "I got a lucky break and took advantage ofit," he says. "I grew up fast be­cause I was thrust'into the situation. I'd like to think that I'm still growing up." 
Pinkett did not re<~lly draw attention to himself until the 
fourth game of the season against Arizona when he scored his 
first Notre Dame touchdown on a 25-yard run. It was the only 
Irish touchdown ofthe game. When he scored the only Irish 
touchdown in the ntxt game against Oregon and Carter went 
down with an injury. he got the starting job against Navy. One 
touchdown and 127 yards later, Pinkett showed Irish fans that 
he was ready. The Pi1:t game which followed showed the na­
tion that he was ready as he scored on runs of76 and 7 yards, 
piling up 11 2 yards 011 10 carries. Notre Dame had a new. star. 
He finished the season as the ninth-best kick returner in the 
nation, thanks to a 9:i-yard return against Penn State. He also 
finished second on tll e team in rushing behind Carter. Despite 
the return of Bell thb season. Pinkett had won himselfthe· 
starting job at tailback. He has not looked back -except to 
see opponents chasing him into the endzone.
•
What makes Pinkett so successful? There are three major reasons. First, there ~.re his teammates. He has two of the best blocking fullbacks in the nation in Mark Brooks and Chris Smith. He has an enormous offensive line that is getting better as the season progresses. He also has four excellent running 

backs beside himselfin Bell, Hiawatha Francisco, Brooks, and 
Smith. He is able to stay fresh by carrying the ball anywhere 
from 15 to 25 times a game. So, as the opponent gets worn 
down by his teammates, Pinkett is able to stay fresh and dash 
around and through the defense. 
Second, there is his physical ability. He runs a 4.5 40-yard dash, while also being able to bench press 375 pounds. His lack of height is an advantage because he can hide behind his blockers while he picks his hole, and his low center ofgravity makes it hard for tacklers to get a good piece ofhim, helping to reduce injuries. 
Finally, Pinkett is a very intelligent player. "Allen has the knack for making the right breaks," explains Moore. "He has a lot ofsavvy about when to make the breaks. He also has a knack ofnot taking blows and that has helped him stay healthy." 
Pinkett, himself, has an answer. "The thing that helps me is that I'm never satisfied with what I do. I will be pleased by a certain performance, but I am never really satisfied." 
• 

It is the policy ofmany colleges to put the picture ofa Heis­man or all-America candidate on the cover of their football guide. Some schools even devote a number ofpages just to their star. Pitt did this with Dan Marino, Michigan did it with Anthony Carter, Air Force did it with Marty Louthan, and the list goes on. Notre Dame does not lobby for its stars in such a manner. Allen Pinkett's biography, while longer than many of the other players', is listed among the "P's." However, Pinkett is doing his own lobbying on the field. 
The Notre Dame record book is filled with names like Gipp, 
Bertelli, and Theismann. Pinkett realizes that his name could 
eventually be at the top ofthe list ofall-time rushers (he is al­
ready among the top 20 ), but he knows better than to let his 
personal statistics get in the way of the team's progress. "(Being the all-time rusher) is a ·goal ofmine, but I'd like to think that my goals and my success go along with the team's goals and the team's success." 
Allen Pinkett is only a sophomore and it is obvious that his success is important to the team's success. It might wear blue and gold, or it might even wear green, but the Notre Dame football team knows that Pink is what brings true success. 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
As tfie Nmre Dame football team marches down the 
field in quest ofa score, almost everyone's attention is 
focused on the Beuerleins, Pinketts or Howards, the 
guys who are most likely to chalk up the points and to 
he seen dancing excitedly in the endzone. Lost, 
however, in the crowd ofexcitement or buried at the 
bottom ofa goal-line pile are those playerswho pushed 
and shoved 10 clear the way to the endzone and make 
the score possible. These players are the offensive 
linemen, and Neil Maune is one ofthese often un­
recognized heroes of trench warfare. 
The lack of recognition does not bother Maune. 
though, as he understands the importance ofhis job in 
helpng his teammates to be successful on the field. "If 
we do our job, Beuerlein will have time to throw, the 
backs will gt t some yardage, and everything will work 
out," he says "Doing our job will help us win the game, 
and that's most important." 
The 6-5, 275-pounder from Marthasville, Mo., has 
served as a starter at the strongguard position since the 
fourth game oflast season against Miami. That was his 
first action ofthe season. The spot opened up for Maune 
when an injury sidelined starting center Mark Fischer 
and the coaches decided to move guard Tom Thayer to 
his spot. 
As the only senior starter on the 1983 Irish offensive 
unit, Maune has had to work extremely hard to sur­
mount injuries which plagued his first two seasons un­
der the Golden Dome. 
Although now a member of the offensive unit, · Maune's No1:re Dame career began on the other side of 
the line where he worked at defensive end. His time at 
defensive end was shortlived, however, as he suffered a 
shoulder injury in the third game ofthe 1979 season 
against Michigan State. The injury forced him to miss 
the remaind<~r ofthe 1979 season as well as all ofthe 
1980 campaign. 
"When I was having trouble with injuries, I didn't 
know if! wa~ ever going to play here," he says. "It took a 
long time to get back after the injury. It was my left 
shoulder and everytime it seemed healed, it kept get­
ting reaggravated in practice." 
The start ofthe 1981 season brought forth a clean bill 
of health for Maune, and because he missed the fresh­
man campaign, he was granted an extra year of 
eligibility. This time he was an offensive guard. "I was 
switched to offense because ofmy shoulder," recalls 
Maune. "It was just before Coach Faust came, and, when 
he arrived in the spring of 1981, I was probably about 

the fourth man at offensive guard. They gave everyone 
time to show what they could do, and I just went out 
and did my best-and I got my chance." 
Maune then went on to earn his first monogram while assisting Randy Ellis and Mike Kelley at the left guard slot during the 1981 season. 
Chosen in 1978 as the Missouri prep lineman ofthe year and having served as defensive captain his senior year, Maune came to Notre Dame with one basic goal. "When I first came, I just wanted to play," he says. "I wanted to be able to contribute to the Notre Dame foot· ball team." 
Now after four years and several bothersome shoul­der injuries, Maune's goals for this season are just a little different. "I just wanted to start every game and be healthy," he now says. "I was also hoping that we could win a national championship. Even though we're probably out ofthat picture, I'd at least like to go to a major bowl game, because I never got to play in the Sugar Bowl three years ago." 
Despite his veteran status on this year's team, Maune doesn't see himselfassuming a significant role as a team leader. "I don't really think I'm in a leadership role," he says. "Blair Kiel is the real leader ofthe offense. Even though he's not playing now. he's got a certain air of confidence about himself, and I know it has helped me. And I think it helps other players too, especially the younger ones. He's such a good role model. Pinkett and Beuerlein are also great leaders. They really help to get us all going. 
"Offensive linemen really aren't in a leadership posi­tion, we just have to go out and do our job and when we do, everything works out." 
Making everything work out is very important and, because of his great size, Maune is able to hold up his share of the work very well. 
"My height gives me the advantage oflonger arms to pass block," he explains, "and my quickness helps me when I have to pull, and both ofthese are necessary to help the offense be successful." 
Maune is impressed with the way the team has gradually improved as the season has gone on. He cites a change o'fattitude as a possible key to the way things have changed. "The first three games, everyone played in fear oflosing and that really wasn't the right ap­proach. Now we come out ofthe lockerroom and storm on the field with the attitude that we're going to tear these guys apart. We're just going to knock some heads and make things happen." 
With just three games remaining on the season's schedule, the usual question that confronts seniors has not eluded Maune either. What about professional foot­
• • • Pinkett 

ball after college? The thought has runthrough Maune's 
mind, and in keeping with his usual easy-going per­
sonality, he chooses just to wait and see what will hap­
pen. "I don't know if I'm good enough or not," he says. 
"A lot ofteams have written me, but what does that 
mean? I try not to think about it too much. I can't let it 
worry me. If it happens it happens. IfI'm given a chance 
to try, I'll certainly try. It's better to try than to look back 
years later and ask yourselfwhat could it have been like. 
I'll just give it my best effort." 
Over his years at Notre Dame, Maune has met many 
friends and had many memorable experiences, and 
being a part ofthe Notre Dame football team is one of 
his most unforgettable. 
"Coming out ofthe tunnel for the Air Force game will 
be tough," he says. "I've been here so long and after that there's no more games. That's the last. That's it. It'll be my last time playing in Notre Dame Stadium. It's very -emotional. It's hard to express. To many people it may 
not seem like that big ofa thing, but it is because playing 
football for Notre Dame has become such a big part of 
my life." 

When Neil Maune and the rest of the Irish offense 
takes the field for the last two home games, it might be 
nice to recognize the efforts of him and others like him 
who have given so much and who all too often have 
gone unrecognized for aH their hard work and exhaust­
ing efforts. Players like Maune don't score the touch· 
downs or get mobbed by reporters. but their jobs are 
just as important to the success ofthe team. 

John Congemi Panther quarterback 
PlnSBURGH ' 
Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 12 
NOTRE DAME VS. PlnSBURGH 
THE STATISTICS
THE GAME 
GAME: Fig• 1g Irish vs. Pittsburgh Panthers 

TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG SITE: Not !)arne Stadium ( 59,075) 
TIME: 3:4) . n. EST; Saturday, Nov. S, I983 
The 

TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 3322 2024 Pinkett 8 167 898 54 1t 53 Total Plays 601 523 Smith 8 62 349 5.6 1 37 Yards per Pia y 5.5 3.9 Franc1sco 7 38 189 5.0 0 33
Upset 

Yards per Game 415.2 253.0 Bell 4 37 169 46 4 50 TV-RADIO: CBS Sports Regional Telecast( Ch. 22) 
PENALTIES·YARDS 59-593 46-409 Brooks 8 30 158 5.3 2 31 Gary Bender and Pat Haden 
FUMBLES-LOST 15-7 19-8 Machtolf 3 14 78 56 0 13 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 174 122 Howard 8 4 61 15.2 0 30 By Rushing 105 47
November 6, 1982 Flemons 2 13 52 40 0 34 Notre Dame 0 10 0 21 31 
By Pas,sing 60 62 Grooms 1 2 33 16.5 0 25
Pittsburgh 3 3 7 3 16 

By Penalty 9 13 Abraham 6 13 32 2.5 1 11 Harry Kalas and George Connor 
Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 

THIRD DOWNS-CONV 63-129 39-120 Miller 8 1 19 19 0 0 19 Percentage 488 .325 Carter 1 2 9 4.5 0 9 
Scoring 

POSSESSION TIME 257.32 222 28 Jackson 8 1 10 0 1 PITI-Schubert48 FG
Notre Dame-Mutual Radio Network 

M1nutes per Game 32.12 27.48 Kiel 8 17 -7 ·04 1 7
PITI-Schubert22 FG Tony Roberts and AI Wester 
Beuerle1n 7 19 ·18 ·0 9 0 9NO-Johnslon 38 FG 
NO-Morianly 3 run (Johnslon kick)
WNDU-AM I 500 

PITT-Thomas 1run (Schubert k1ck) NO 8 420 2023 4.8 20 53 
NO-Howard 54 pass from K1el (Johnston kick) OPP 8 297 868 29 5 34 SERIES: Notre Dame 32, Pittsburgh I3, ties I 
I 

PITT-Schubert 48 FG LAST MEETING: November 6, 1982 
NO-Pinkett 76 run (Johnston k1ck) ,, ~ 

,, PASSING G NO co PCT INT YDS TO SCORING GTD PAR-PAS FG TPNO -Pinkett 7run (Johnston k1ck)
Notre Dame 31, Pittsburgh 16 
:~ 

Beuerle1n 7 97 52 .536 2 693 4 P1nkett 8 12 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 72
u 

II K1el 8 77 39 .506 5 491 4 Johnston 8 0 29-29 0-0 0 8·15 53NO PITI ;\ 
Pinkett 8 1 1 000 0 59 0 Bell 4 5 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 30
F1rstdowns 10 25 '1
RAN KINGS: ( AP) Notre Dame I Hth, Pitrsburgh unranked 

Rushing attempts 33 46 !; Howard 8 1 1 000 0 29 1 Bavaro 8 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 TICKETS: Game is sold out 
Net Yards Rush1ng 197 124 ;! K. Smith 5 2 500 0 15 0 Sm1th 8 2 0-0 0·0 0 0-0 12 Net Yards Pass1ng 126 Cush1ng 2 1 1 1.000 0 12 0 Brooks 8 2 0·0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Passes comp-attempled 6·15 Grooms 2 0 .000 0 0 0 Jackson 8 2 0-0 0·0 0 0-0 12 Had 1n1ercepted 0 
,.;~I 

Abraham 6 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6
Tolal Nel Yards 323 438 

NO 8 181 95 .525 71299 9 Howard 8 1 0·0 0-0 0 0-0 6
Fumbles-los! 0·0 6-2
THE SCHEDULE 

OPP 8 226 115 .509 141156 5 K1el 8 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6
•1 Penalties-yards 5-36 4·30 Team 8 0 0·0 0·0 1 0·0 2
:1 Punts·average 8-43.5 6-40.3 

RECEIVING G NO YOS AVG TO LG NOTRE DAME PITTSBURGH 
NO 8 29 29-29 0-0 1 8·15229
I Howard 20 286 14.3 1 58 OPP 8 10 6-7
SEPT. IOdef. Purdue, 52-6 SEPT. 3 def. Tennessee, I3·3 -~ Individual Leaders 8 0·3 0 5-6 81 
Pinkett 8 19 183 9.6 1 59 
SEPT. 17 lost to Michigan State, 28-23 SEPT. I 0 def. Temple, 35-0 RUSHING -N0lre Dame Pinkett 10-112: 
1 Bavaro 8 13 224 17.2 3 59 
SEPT T. 24 lost to Miami (Fla.), 20-0 SEPT. 24 lost to Maryland, I3·7 
' 

OCT. I dt:f. Colorado, 27-3 OCT. 8 def. South Carolina, 30-6 OCT. I 5 dt:f. Army, 42-0 OCT. 22 def. Southern Cal, 27-6 OCT. 29 def. Navy, 28-I2 NOV. 5 PITTSBURGH NOV. I2 at Penn State NOV. 19 AIR FORCE 
OCT. I lost to West Virginia, 24-21 OCT. 8 def. Florida State, I 7-I6 OCT. I 5 def. Louisville, SS· 10 OCT. 22 def. Navy, 21-14 OCT. 29 def. Syracuse, 13-10 NOV. 5 at Notre Dame 

Morianly 9·55. Howard 1·18. Carter6-10. Pittsburgh. Thomas 27·93: McCall6·18. Mcintyre 6-17: 

Jackson 8 9 184 20.4 2 61 DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK Smith 8 8 93 11 6 1 26 
'I Favorite 7 6 92 15.3 0 18 FurJamc 100 3-5 3 0 0 PASSING -Notre Dame K1el 6-15·0.126. Pitts· !: 
Bell 4 6 65 10.8 1 23 Kovaleski 62 2·4 4 0 0burgh: Manno 26·42·0.314. 
Francisco 7 5 51 102 0 15 Golic 46 10-28 1 2 0 Jefferson 8 3 47 15.7 0 16 Naylor 41 0·0 1 0 0 RECEIVING-Noire Dame. Hunler 2-16. Howard 
Brooks 8 2 14 7.0 0 11 Ballage 41 2·4 5 0 0
1-54: Moriarily 1·30: Pinkelt 1·17. Haywood 1-9: ~ 

Miller 8 1 25 25.0 0 25 Johnson 35 3-11 3 2 0Pittsburgh Collins 8-109: Dawk1ns 4-47: McCall4·69: ~ Abraham 6 17 17.0 0 17 Gann 28 0-0 1 0 0
Thomas 3·29: Mclnlyre 3·9: Wilson 2·16: Compton l 

Machtolf 3 12 12.0 0 12 Autry 26 2·9 0 1 0
1-20: Williams 1·15: ~ 

Williams 5 6 6.0 0 6 Brown 25 0-0 4 0 0 Toran 19 0-0 0 0 0
Altendance -60.162 ~ NOTRE DAME 8 95 1299 13.7 9 61 D1ngens 16 3-9 2 0 0 OPPONENTS 8 115 1156 10.1 5 81 Dorsey 15 1·2 0 0 


PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week, The Observer sports staff, a random student picked at the discretion of the sports editor, and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's m::tjor college football games. Records are com­piled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it is not 
enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick a winner given the underdog points. 

Louie Somogyi Jane Healey Will Hare Mike Sullivan David Dziedzic "Big Ed" Tom Small 
Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Editor Editor-In-Chief Guest Celebrily Random Studenl 
56-37·1 S0-43·1 49-44·1 49·44·1 45·48-1 47·46·1 49-44·1 
.601 .537 .527 .527 .484 .S05 .527 
NORTil CAROIJNA over Clemson by 7. 'i Heels Heels Tigers Heels Tigers Heels Tigers
1 

Georgia over l'lorida by I. 5 (at Jacksonville) Gators Gators Bulldogs Gators Gators Bulldogs Bulldogs Allllt:RN over Maryland by H.'i Terps Terps Tcrps Terps Eagles Eagles Eagles Oklahoma over MISSOURI by 2. 'i Sooners Tigers Sooners Tigers Sooners Tigers Sooners liCI.A over OREGON by I I Bruins Bruins Ducks Ducks Bruins Bruins Ducks Arizona State over CALIFORNIA by 7.'i Devils Devils Bears Devils Devils Bears Dn•ils SOUTHERN CAL over Stanford by 12 Trojans Cardinal Trojans Trojans Cardinal Trojans Cardinal FLORIDA STATE over South Carolina by I:1 Seminoles Semilnoles Seminoles Gamecocks Gamecocks Seminoles Seminoles Washington over ARIZONA by I Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Huskies Huskies
Wildcats Alabama over L<;lJ by 8. 5 Tigers Tigers Tide Tigers Tide Tigers Tigers MIAMI over East Carolina by 13 Hurricanes Hurricanes Pirates Pirates Hurricanes Hurricanes
Hurricanes Iowa over WISCONSIN by 6 Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Badgers Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Badgers Hawkeyes NEBRASKA over Iowa State by 45 Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Cyclones Cyclones Cyclones Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Texas over HOUSTON by 20 Longhorns Longhorns Cougars Cougars Longhorns Cougars Longhorns NOTRE DAME over Pittsburgh by 7 Panthers Irish Panthers Irish Irish Irish
Pantbcn 


..._.............................,
.....--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Show·case 
Friday, November 4, 1983-page 13 
Letters to a Lonel~v God 
The lost hour 


your front window." 
His friends had frightened me 
with their stories. The guy was on 
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 

Y
drugs, they said. He had spent the esterday, the feast ofAll Saints, a "Do you drink a lot?" He wasn't wil­night, planning to kill himself Now, young man, quite drunk, ling to answer. Maybe his real ten years later, I couldn't tell this stopped me as I was leaving the problem wa-; with drugs. He needed graduate student that I had gone into Catholic Center at the University of more help than I could give on a his apanment, expecting to find a Wisconsin. He wanted to talk to me briefdash through his campus. good-bye note. He wasn't curious about a family problem. I tried to "Give up drinking, and try again," enough, yesterday, to ask questions. brush him offbecause I had a bus to I advised. He looked surprised, be­I wanted him to know he wasn't just meet, and talking to a drunk person cause I was blaming him for his mot­another fuce in the crowd, though I 
turns out to be as useless as writing on water. He kept insisting. It was my duty to talk with people ifthey had family problems, he said. 
Finally, because I was embar­rassed by his tagging after me, beg­ging for attention, I questioned, "How can I be ofhelp?" 
His eyes glittered with tears. "My 
mother told me she wished that I 
had never been born," he replied. 
The streets, filkd with passers-by, seemed very still, as though the globe had stopped for breath in the cosmic dance. There is a dark magic in language that frightens me. Words influence events as though they were invested with power to cast spells or undo creation. I'm too Irish to be comfonable with wishes that sound like a curse. 
Ican imagine a parent, out ofgrief or despair, saying to a kid hell-bent for disa-;ter, "Rather than seeing you like this, I wish you had never been born." I can also envisage the bitter quarrel, resulting from years ofag­gravation, in which a parent, out of momentary hatred from the grim side ofcaring, spits out the rejection, "I regret bringing you into the 
world." 
A busload ofGlee Clubbers was 
depending on my punctuality. A 
snap judgement was as much inves­
tigation as I could give this crisis. 
"Have you been drinking today?" I 
asked He admitted his inebriation. 
Records 
her's heanlessness. "You're probably causingyour fumily a lot of pain by the way you live," I said. 
He wanted to talk longer. "I couldn't help you, until you're sober," I said. He made me take down his address and phone num­ber so that I could call him later. I will keep the paperon which I wrote down his name. 
He asked me to shake his hand. I dislike touching people who seem none too clean. It would have been a sin ofmy conscience to refuse him this small ritual ofhumanity. As a Christian who meets a lot oflosers, I'm not very brave. Years ago, I stopped going to the Catholic Worker House where Dorothy Day lived, out offear ofpicking up lice from the street people. On the way back to the bus, I stopped at an an museum to wash after helping an In­dian, also drunk, who needed money because he was catching a freight. 
Descending the stairs, I sawan old grad from Notre Dame smiling up at me. It was so long since I had seen him that I had to ask his name. He was on his way to becoming a Ph.D. 
"Once, when you were a senior," I told him, "Your friends were worried about you. Because oftheir concern, I waited two hours in your apanment for you to come home. When I caught up with you later at Darby's Place, you were fine. I spent an anxious afternoon staring out of 

couldn't remember his name. On a 
bitter cold day in winter, I had im­
agined I was battling for his life. 
The mailman just came to pick up the letters from the box in front of the Nonh dining hall. "He's early," I thought. Then I realized, coming back from a different time zone in the middle ofthe night, I had forgot­ten to change mywatch. I had lost an hour; it was later than I thought. The month is November, the feast is All Souls. Keeping to time tables, I had lost sixty minutes, the period it takes to have lunch in Madison, Wiscon­sin. Yesterday, I got offthe bus, looking for a cheeseburger. I met students who reminded me oflife and death, as though I were keeping appointments with entrances and exits. Then, in the darkness, an hour got lost. I must have left it in Madison. 
Last week at breakfust, in a St. 
Louis restaurant, I poured syrup 
from a carafe into a cup, thinking it 
was coffee, adding Sweet 'n' Low. 
The waitress said, "I saw it happen, 
but I thought it was something Cat­
holicsdo." 
"Death is the only thing we haven't succeeded in completely vulgarizing," wrote Huxley. Huxley never met the Irishman who wants to have a leprachaun sewed on his shroud 
It seems easier to die than never 
to have been born at all. 
Alpha: ~5orneone should cry 
•MUSIC 

A harpsichord recital by Darlene Catello will be presented by the Notre Dame Depanment ofMusic tonight at 8: I5 in the Library Auditorium. 
Charles Tompkins will perform this Sunday at 8 p.m. in Sacred Hean Church in a Guest Organ Recital, also sponsored by the Depanment ofMusic. 
The Michiana New Music Ensemble will perform Sunday at 8 p.m. at Saint Mary's Little Theatre. The ensemble will play, among other numbers, works by Igor Stravinsky and Pulitzer Prize-winning com­poserJoseph Schwantner. Admission is $4 general, S2 for students. For ticket information, call 284-4632. 
Tonight ACDC will be at the ACC arena, in a concert beginning at 8. 
•DANCE 

"A new tradition" will be the theme for the Fall Festival Dance, 
which will be held tomorrow night at South Dining Hall. The dance 
will go from 9:30 to I and admission is S I. 
•ART 

An exhibition entitled "The Artistic Process: Ideas and Tech­niques" opens Sunday in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries ofthe Snite Museum. The show investigates basic working techniques and fun­damental conceptsofan in a varietyofmedia, and explores the ques­ton ofwhy specific works ofan take the form they do. 
An exhibition of recent paintings and graphics by Notre Dame Associate Professor Douglas Kinsey opens also on Sunday in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries. An opening reception will be held at I p.m. to introduce the exhibition, which will run through December I8. 
Adisplay ofPolish crafts will be held by the Chopin Fine Ans Club 
at the South Bend Public Library Sundayfrom I to 5 p.m. The fuir will 
include Polish dolls, stitchery, holiday crafts, crystal, wood carvings, 
music boxes, weavings and paintings. The display's owners will be 
present to discuss the works. 
•MASS 

The Masses this Sunday in Sacred Hean Church will have the 
following celebrants: 

Fr. Roben Griffin, at 5:I5 p.m. (Saturday night vigil) 
Fr. George Wiskirchen, at 9 am. 
Bishop William McManus, at I0:30 

Fr. Steven Gibson, at 12: I 5 In addition to these there will be a campus-wide Mass celebrated be Father Theodore Hesburgh in the Stamford-Keenan chapel at 7 
p.m. Sunday. 
•MOVIES 

The Friday Night Film Series presents "Night ofShooting Stars," a 
I982 Italiam movie, tonight at 7:30 in the Annenburg. The film 
depicts a woman's remembrances ofher childhood during the last 
days ofWorld War II and the experiences ofltalian villagers during 
these events. 

On Monday at 7, "The Long Goodbye," an update ofthe novel in 
which a hard-boiled detective character becomes an eccentric who 
doesn't quite fit in with the alienated 1970's, will be in he Annen­
burg. 

"Network," a I976 film in which ''I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore" is the slogan that drives a TV newsman from low ratings and suicidal tendencies to being a folk hero and media star, shows in the Annenburg. Three stars ofthis probing look 
at the cynical world ofTV won Oscars for the movie. 
•NAZZ 

Shenanigans will sing and dance to popular music tonight at the Nazz beginning at 9. Saturday, John Sistro, Lorie Struzik and friends twill perform, also at 9 p.m. An open stage will follow both these per­formances. 
by Vic Sciulli 
features staffwriter 

Y
ou've just gotta hate Asia How and why can four talented musicians like Carl Palmer,John Wetton, Geoff Downes and Steve Howe, who in the pa-;t have played with some ofthe most progressive bands in rock, put out such a lacklus­ter and frivolous effon likeAlpha, their latest LP? 
One good guess would be the band was pressured to put out an­other blockbuster album. The band's self-titled debut album was the biggest selling album last year. Although flawed, Asia was an ac­ceptable compromise between the bands' progressive sound and com­mercial rock. FM radio stations leaped on the LP and played it to death. Unfortunately, the four this time have completely missed the target. 
You don't have to wait long before you suspect there's going to be 
Don't cry now that I've 
found you 
Don't cry take a look 
around you 
Don't cry it took so long to 
find you 
Do what you want, but little 
darling please 
Don't cry 
No damage was done apparently since the song did as well as "Heat" and garnered enough attention to get AM radio station airplay. Gag me with a spoon and all that -this song deserved to die a quick death 
WhyJohn Wetton is leading the band is a mystery. Though his throaty, lush vocals have become as much a part ofthe Asia sound as Steve Howe's guitar, his pretentious­ly silly lyrics have also been the focus of the criticism heaped on the band. Thougl·1 extremely limited in his vocal range, Wetton's voice has Wetton and would probably have 

taken the group in some more 
interesting direction. 
Asia was billed as "the first super­group ofthe eighties" when the four band members joined earlier in the decade. Indeed there was a lot of truth to this: all four came from some ofthe most progressive bands in rock history: Howe from Yes, Wetton from U.K. and King Crimson, Downes from Yes and the Buggies and Palmer from Emerson, Lake and Palmer. Unfonunately, these four have not continued in the progressive mood. Instead they have become one ofthe best examples of 
the slick, formulized corporate rock sound. 
The great disappointment in this album stems from the fuct that a great deal oftalent is being wasted. Yet, all four are enjoying the greatest commercial success oftheir careers and will probably ride this sound as long as fans continue to buy their al­bums and concen tickets. These guys have sold out big time. 

trouble. "Don't Cry," the albums remained relatively unchanged •MISCELLANEOUS opening and most annoying track since his days with King Crimson Tonight after the pep rally at 7 there will a fireworks display at and the first single released, im­and U.K. Unfonunately, Wetton 8:30 and a bonfire at 9, to get the campus fired up for Pitt. mediately evokes memories of (and Downes, who co-wrote nine of A video pany with hours ofMTV will be held in Chautauqua "Heat of the Moment." ("Heat" was the LP's ten songs) fuil to define or tonight from 9 to 2, co-sponsored by Fall Festival, The Progressive the openingtrack and the first single establish any single theme in their Musik Club, WSND, and the Student Union. Admission is $1. and worst song on their debut al­songs and as a result, produce tunes The great balloon race, sponsored by Fall Festival and Pepsi, will bum. Coincidence?) The song's that end up sounding nothing more color tomorrow's game, during which hundreds ofhelium balloons guitar opening is fine but the rest than words built around a single will be released and a winner wil recieve a S50 prize. goes all down hill -as soon as pretentious thought. The Notre Dame Depanment ofTheology presents a lecture, vocalist Wetton opens his mouth to Palmer and Howe's performances "Providence and Evil in Saint Augustine," Monday at 8 p.m. in the sing. The sappy, sticky sweet lyrics rise above the lyrical rubbish and are Library Auditorium. Henry Chadwick, regius professor ofdivinity are, unfonunately, characteristic of the only redeeming qualities to the emeritusofthe University ofCambridge, will give the lecture, which many ofthe album's tracks. LP. Both are fur more talented than is open to the public. 

f_ 
The Observer Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 14 
******************************************************************************************* 

Compatible Atari 2600 Colecovision Compatible Compatible
$24~A~ 
$29!P. $32!P. 
Albums $
and 
Cassettes. 
icro Radio AM/FMStereo 
maxell Beta Reg. '1999 L-750

2099 SPECIAL TWO· 
Includes Batteries 
and Headphones. 

Reg.s24" EA. PACK SAVINGS 
CAMEIOTfJMUSIC 
UNIVERSilY PARK MALL 
2724186

IS MUSIC AND MOREl 
******************************************************************************************* 
Sports Briefs 
DelrayBrooks,a much-heralded high school basketball star, has scheduled a press conference this morning at which he is expected to announce his college choice. Brooks, a 6-4 guard from Michigan City, Ind., is strongly considering to attend Notre Dame. Irish coach Digger Phelps has expressed some optimism regarding Brooks' decision. He is conside:~ed the top candidate for Indiana's "Mr. Basketball" award which is awarded to the state's most out­standing player each season. -The Obsert,er 
The Sorin-Stanfo1rd interhall football playoff game will be previewed on WSND Sportstalk today at 4:30. Sorin Head Coach RaPJy Jefferies will be the featured guest. Bill Dempsey will host thP mterview on WSND-AM 64. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's intramural volleyball league 
still has some room for more teams. The league is open to Saint Mary's students. administration, f:tculty, and staff. Teams may regis­ter at the Angela Athletic Facility by Wednesday, November 9. For more information, call 5549. -Tbe Observer 
I 

Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 15 
The second annual ''Turkey Shoot," a co-ree target shooting contest, is being sponsored by NVA. No ex­perience is necessary. You must reserve a time for your team oftwo men and two women. The deadline for sign-up is Nov. 11. Call 239­6100 for more information. -The Observer 
Windsurfing T-shirts are now in. The club will 
meet in LaFortune at 7 p.m. today. Members are asked to bring $7 to the meeting. -The Observer 
Wednesday, November 9, is an important 
deadline for many NVA activities. It is the deadline for both men's and women's interhall basketball sign-ups. The club and graduate basketball deadline is also on this day. November 9 is also the deadline for interhall hockey and squash. Ifyou have any questions, call the NVA office at 239-6100 or talk to your hall athletic commis­sioners. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 16 

English loses court battle 
As>.<X:iated Press 
WASHINGTON -jon English, Tulane's ineligible quarterback, lost a plea to a Supreme Court justice yesterday to be reinstated for the team's final two games ofthis season. 
Justice Byron R. White, without 
comment, turned down an emer­
gency request by English that he be 
allowed to play against Viginia Tech 
on Saturday in the New Orleans Su­
perdome and against Louisiana State 
on Nov. 24. 
English, after playing in Tulane's first six games in 1983, was forced to sit out the next three for violating the National Collegiate Athletic As­sociation's college transfer rules. 
The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertisin& from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Obsef'l'er Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of 
Haggar Coll~ge Center, is open from 12:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in per­son or by mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per
Classifieds 
day. 

NOTICES j·  FOUND-Wallet at Ice Rink with Mike M. from IL. D in it. Inquire at ice rink.  FOR SALE: TWO PITT GA'S CALL ROSEMARY AT 6232 NEED PITT STUD & GA TIX. CALL  I pity the sucka who won't sell me four Pitt tickets! I'm givin' you 48 ~ours to gel smart. sucka, so call Greg at 8284 before your time runs out. Don't play with your  FALL FESTIVAL T-SHIATS! FALL F6S­TIVAL T-SHIRTS! FALL FESTIVAL T­SHIRTS! On sale in all dining halls during lunch and dinner  Fri & Sat nights. see PSYCHO at the K of C hall. Sponsored by the Knights of Columbus.  
CHRIS AT 283-1657 OR SUSAN AT 284­ life, fool.  WILL HE LOSE IT TONIGHT? WHO  
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVER,.._ MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY!  [J:oR RENT  5203. HAVE 4 PITT GA'S WANT TO TRADE  PITT GA'S BEST OFFER GREEDY No. 8831  Knowt11e UNDERDOG theme song??? Drink FREE at GRACE tallgaterlll  WILL BE THE LUCKY YOUNG WOMAN? FOR THE ANSWER TO THIS AND OTHER QUESnONS, COME TO  
CALL (312) 742-1142, EXT. 7316.  FOR OR BUY PENN ST TIX CALL 1796  THE VINCENT E. WEHBY DEBUTANTE  
HOUSEMATE: FEMALE. $175 MO. EX­ FOR SALE: 2 PITT GA'S BEST OFFER  BALL TONIGHT, 10:00 • 2:00  
TYPING SERVICE  CELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD. CLOSE  HELP !! I DESPERATELY NEED PITT  CALL MATT 234-7080  URBAN PLUNGERS  
Professional experience with math equa­ TO NC. GROCERY STORE. FUR­ GA"S OR STUDENT TIX. PLEASE CALL  GRACEHALLIII  
tions, statistical and general typing. For  NISHEC. 233-6081.  DICKAT288-7273  NEED ONE OR TWO PAIR "'lA FORCE  Don't forget the workshop this Sunday at  GRACEHALLIII  
last & accurate service. call 256-5469.  GA'S CALL TOM AT 1543  1:30 at the Memorial Ubrary Auditor ;um.  GRACEHALLIII  
Prices vary.  AC/DC AT THE ACC FRI. NOV 4 GET  9AMSATURDAY  
YOUR TICKETli AT THE ACC NOW I!!!  NEED 2 PITT GA"S. TOP DOLLAR. CALL  anybody that helped out with the trojan  BE THEREIIIITS WABASH DAYIII  
PRO-TYPE. 12 yrs. experience. Specializing in dissertations, manuscripts, theses. and student papers. Call2n-58331or rates.  CwANTED  NEED 4 OR MORE GAS FOR PITT GAME. WILL PAY BIG MONEY. CALL 284-5180. MAUREEN.  JILL6293. For Sale: 2 Pitt GA's. Best offer. 284-5064  horae go out and help again. Your class needs you float building today at stepan  Anyone from WABASH drinks free at GRACE'S Tallgaterlll  
NEED 1 PITT GA OR STU TICK BAD­ PEOPLE PEOPLE WE NEED PEOPLE  -4-WEST KEENAN HALL.  
EXPERIENCED TYPIST Mrs. Bedford 288-2107 Hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m .. Mon. thru Fri. EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. Reasonable rates Call 287· 5162. PSYCHO Fri& Sat  LVII CALL 1972 FOR A GOOD DEAL. AAFFEFITYS IS HIRING COOKS WAITRESS AND HOSTESS SIMILIEA TO.T.G.I.F. MENUE APPLY MON-FR14­6 PITT GAs needed 234-8248thats all NEED AIDE TO PURDUE NOV 11 OR 12-CALL PEG 1314  I NEED 4 PITT GAs, ALL TOGETHER OR ANY 2 PAIRS. ERIC-3597. Help! Little sis needs STU TIX for PITT call JAM a11586 Big City FAT CAT needs two Pitt GA · s at any price HELP ME, PLEASE  FOR SALE: ONE PITT GA. BEST OFFER BY FRIDAY. CALL MICHELE 6730 HELP GREAT AUNT AND UNCLE COM­ING FROM NEW YORK. NEED TWO PITT STUDENT TIX. CALL BILL 1079 HELP! I need Pittsburg and Air Force tick­ets. call Brian 256-0432 6 PITT GA's Best Offer Call Joe No. 1004  The senior class needs people to help out in Building the float that the class is sponsoring tor the tall festival. Come to Stepan between 7 and 12 and help your 4 classmates PEOPLE PEOPLE WE NEED PEOPLE HEY GIRLS, I KNOW DAVID CROUCH'S ROOMATE WITH THE SAME FIRST NAME IS TALLER AND BETTER LOOKING THAN HIM. BUT ITS DAVE'S  TONIGHT Is the night. The Notre Dame Progressive Musik Club will have their Second Annual Video Party in Chautau­qua, from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. Admission is only one crummy buck! Come and see over five hours of videos on huge screens, while dancing with the one you would love. That is tonight. That is enter­tainment. Rebel and Rabbi adv1se your attendance. Dance it off.  
8.10.12 PM  BIRTHDAY THIS WEEKEND SO BE  
KofC Hall $1 . Members Free $ $ Part time employment available for  Need a ride to East Lansing 11/11. Please c"ll Melody 284-4298 NEED RIDERS TO ERIE PA OR BUF­FALO AFEA.LEAVE 11-10 RETURN 11­ AN ALUMNUS FRIEND IS COMING ALL THE WAY FROM BOSTON TO SEE THE IRISH CRUSH PITT. HE NEEDS TWO GA'S FOR THE GAME. CALL DAVID AT 277-1326.  NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR AIR FORCE GAME. CALL AMY AT 4684. SELLING TWO PITT GAs. CALL MIKE AT1108.  NICE TO HIM AND WISH HIM A HAPPY ONE WHEN YOU SEE HIM Boston Club Pitt Tallgater on Green Field near Senror Bar. Refreshments and  To the King in Cavanaugh-ElVIS. Elvis 1esterday was the day A drunken state is on the way You're 21, a real nam now Have a drink and take a bow To the meanest dude we've ever seen Love  
energetic student Good sales ex­perience. Set own hours. Reputable. expanding company. For Interview call Bob at 259-3957  13 ANNIE' 6808 Ted to Puper: DROP DEAD I Well. not really (yet, anyway) .but now  SH-Til (& not just on Pitt!) I'm in dire need of 3 GA"s or 3 student tickets lor ND vs. Pitt. Call Jean at 284-4147.  NEED PITT nCKETS 2 GA or STu­DENTS NEEDED CALL 8094 LOU  food. Everyone welcome. Begins at 11 a.m .. ends at midnight. Look tor MASS state flag.  Gail. Ellen and Eileen XOXO l"d REALLY rather wrestle But at least I didn't have  
ATTENTION URBAN PLUNGERS Remember the Urban Plunge Workshop will be Sunday at 1:30 in the Library Auditorium. Th1s Workshop will1ntroduce you to some of the experiences you will encounter on the Plunge.  that I have your attention I need a ride to Philadelphia (Pa.. not Miss.. sorry Marcus) or environs tor Turkey Day break. I <:an leave anytime aher the Air Force game on 11/19 (the earlier the bet­ter) and can return anytime from Sunday 11/27 on (the later the better). Call Tim before 6 om at 282-2478  I have 4 PITT GA"s!!! Will TRADE tor 4 STUDENT wilD. Lynn No. 1285 Need 2 PENN ST. GA"S. Call Lisa x7835. HAVE 2 PITT G.~'S.40 yd. line.Asking reasonable.Call after 9 pm 1170  NEEDED AIR FORCE TIX 2 GA"S CALL CHRIS 1762 HELP! Need 4 A1r Force GA"s call Candice 284-4254 WANTED: 2 PITT GA'S. CALL SHIRLEY 5303  Boston club Pitt Tallgater on Green Field near Senior Bar. Refreshments and food. Everyone welcome. Fun begins at 11 a.m. and ends at m1dnight. Look lor MASS state flag. ALUMNI TAILGATERIIIIIIALUMNI  to wait 21 years. Win a color T.V.. Sony Walkman. or 4 wet Burritos at Hacienda! Buy a raffle ticket LeMan Lobby 3-5.7-9 Monday thru Thur. Nov. 7-10. Support SMC Finance Club. Happy 21st B-Day. Paul Niland' You·re  
INTERESTED IN WEIGHT TRAINING BUT DONT KNOW MUCH ABOUT IT? COME TO THE NVA SHOAT COURSE ON WEIGHT CONDITIONING. CALL 239-6100 FOR DETAILS.  [JoR SALE  Girl friends leh town. Need 4 AESV. Tix lor Air Force. Call Chuck M-F 8-5 234­0229 or 234-2090. I WANTEM BACK I NEED PITT GA'S CALL TOM 1154  sale student football tickets (2).1ast two home games. best student offer. Call 272­7553 5:30-7:30 p.m ..  TAILGATERIIIIIALUMNI TAIL­GATERIIIII SATURDAY 11-GAMETIME FOOD-BEvERages-DJ TUNES ALUMNI TAILGATERIIIIIIALUMNI TAILGATERIIIIIALUMNI TAIL­GATERIIIII  now at the peak of your back-gammon talent, so go for it, n1-ni! Have Fun! JOHN. Have a GREAT 21st Birthday. HAPPY LEGALITY!!! Love. your sis Chris  
ATTN SMC lrosh! 60's party Flanner Party Room. Saturday aher Pitt game.  CLOTHI~IG­IZOD SWEATEAS(ALL COLORS) S,M,L.XL -$25  PITT TIX-2 ON THE 50 YARD LINE-­BEST OFFER CALL 283-8046  PERSONALS  ································································ HEY DILLON! ALUMNI PARnED BEFORE THE NAVY GAME-WHERE  MICHAEL. IF ITS NOT LOVE AND ITS NOT CHORALE. IT MUST BE YOUR DOOM-A-LOOM-A-DOOM-A-LOOM­ 
Call No. 1004 SLOW DEATH ... You'll die laugh1ng. LOST/FOUND LOST: Wire eyeglasses with brown case. Call 8297. HELP! Can't see! LOST: pair of glasses. Gemini'" in black case (EYE CARE DOC­TORS. WICKLIFFE. OHIO). Brown frames. clear plastic lenses. LOST 10-19 possibly in Engineering audtorium. Call John3254  SHOATS(RUGBY-$12 SOCCER-$?) S.M.L MITRE TURF SHOES 8,9.10,11 -$25 CAL MIKE 1729 One Pitt Sttic available. Best offer by 5:00 Friday. Cc II Mark. 4586. FOR SALE: 1 h.p. F& Wwater pump. new motor. $1:!5. 40 gal. pressure tank. $40. 272-3753 •her 5. for sale: woman's diamond engagement ring.14 kHat yellow gold,.35 ct. stone. orig. valuu $950. will sell for $450. call Terry at 2:19-7735 GITANE PROFESSIONAL SUPER CORSA 10-SPD. BICYCLE COM­PANOLO COMPONENTS REYNOLDS 531 DBL-13TD FRAME. LIKE NEW. 234­2937.  HELPII NEED PITT GA'S.272~306,232­1466. Filthy rich parents are coming tor Pitt game. It you want to make mega-bucks and you have 2 Pitt GA"s call Thorn at 2n-7577. Need One. Or Two Tickets To ND vs PITT. Please Call GREG 256-0432 4 SALE 5 PITT TIX. BEST OFFER CALL 3669. I need PITT GAS call Mary 284-5084 FOR SALE: 4 PITT GA"s; BEST OFFER BY FRIDAY GETS THEM. CALL TOM AT 3537  SODOM AND GOMORRAH GET PSYCHED FOR PITT THIS FRIDAY NITE AT SODOM AND GOMORRAH ENJOY PRIME RIB AT AGOSTINO"$ WHISTLE STOP 602 SO. WALNUT CALL FOR RESERVATIONS AT 232­2494. /NEED PITTGA'S. CALLDAVIDAT277­1326. Halloween Movie PSYCHO See the midmghl show if you dare I YES. AGAIN SMC COFFEEHOUSE IS HERE AGAIN. COME OVER AND US·  WAS YOUR TAILGATER??? ONCE AGAIN, DILLON STINKS. ALUMNI TAILGATER THIS SATURDAYIII ALL YOU CAN EAT/DRINKI!! BE THERE!!!!! TIM & JOY NEUVILLE WELCOME TO Notre Dame' Name the BABY Joel-Your favorite cousin JOE B. LOVES ART IN THE BUFF -JUST ASK HIM CHRIS, THANKS FOR MAKING THE MKTING CLUB'S LATE NIGHT CATAMARAN TRIP A SUCCESS. YOU ARE AN HONORARY MEMBER. LOCK THE SNITE!! THE TRUTH IS REVEALED ABOUT JOE IN THE BAHAMAS. A TRUE ART LOVER!  A'S!!! NOW OPEN -Tennessee Southern Bar­B-Que. 113 DiXIeway N.. Roseland. Tues.-Thurs.11-10:Fri.11-Midnight:Sat. 12-12. Ribs. Rib Tips. Chicken. Shoulder sandWiches, Beef sandwiches. Dining & carryout. 2 doors S. of Big C Lumber. NANCE & AL Hi you London GOD­DESSES! Hope you·re having a great time We miss you! AI. bring back some Z's from Italy for us & Nance. make sure you·re saving to get numbers. Take care & WE LOVE YOU! T1.T2.T3.MF.CB JFP ·GREAT IN BEDI! JOE T-MOTIVATE ME!!I DANCE DANCE DANCE FALL FEST  
LOST:BLACK TOTES SLIMLINE UMBRELLA IN 127 NSH. HAD INITIALS  FGA SALE:2 PITT GA"s call John 8367  NEED TWO GAS AND 1 STU TICKETS  TEN TO SOME TERRIFIC TALENT. NO'S OWN MICHAEL REINHART WILL  CHRIS--GET SOME MONEY OR GET OUT OF TOWN' YOUR DAD.  SAT NITE DANCE DANCE DANCE South Dining Hall 9:30-1:00. $1 DANCE  
RPM ON HANDLE CALL RICH 8731.  FOR AIR FORCE GAME. PARENTS  PLAY THERE WILL ALSO BE AN OPEN  DANCE DANCE  
f  COMING ALL THE WAY FROM P.R..  STAGE. SO COME WATCH OR PEA­ HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY KATIE  
SOMEONE PICKED UP MY LEVI DENIM JACKET AT GRACE'S PARTY BEFORE BREAK. DO YOU KNOW WHERE MY JACKET IS? CALL JOHN AT 1647.  'C)icKETS j_ •.-:-.~: •.....-::-•...••7.. .. : ............. ~:-:.-:..::.::: PITT GA"S NEEDEDIII Will pay big$$$$.  CALL MARGIE AT 3687. ···············································-··············· Do you want FIVE PITT GA'S? Two sets of two and a single. Best offer. Call Greg at 283-8866.  FORM! FRIDAY. NOV. 4TH. 8 PM IN THE HCC CHAMELEON ROOM. BE THERE! ATTENTION STUDENTS INTERESTED IN POST GRADUATE SERVICE OP­ KEYES! HAVE A GREAT DAY! LOVE. YOUR BIG SIS ····················· ··················••··················•••· My gawd!! ROPER was almost coherent while INSIDE.  ... A New Tradition.. Fall Fest DANCE Sat. Nov. 5 South Dining Hall 9:30-1:00. $1 A.B.C., CULTURE CLUB, TALKING  
LOST:NAVY BLUE LIGHT-WEIGHT  Call Tom Hollerbach collect at (312) 565­5959.  CANADIAN COUSIN AND FRIENDS  PORTUNITIES: THE CENTER FOR SO­CIAL CONCERNS IS FEATURING A  What could It mean??  HEADS, MEN WITHOUT HATS, B-52'S. These 8/e but a few ofthe videos that will  
PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET.TO THE  FROM CALGARY ARE ON THEIR WAY  WEEK OF VOLUNTEER PROGRAMS  be seen when the Notre Dame  
BEAUTIFUL GIRL WHO CALLED AND  NEED 8 GAS FOR PITT. MUST BE IN  NEED PITT TIX. CALL JIM AT 3578  WITH REPRESENTATIVES ON  Progressive Musik Club sponsors their  
LEFT THE MESSAGE THAT SHE  PAIRS. r.AI_L KEVIN AT 8636.  CAMPUS AS FOLLOWS: Fri. Nov. 4­ Jimbo.Wally.Krames & Mosie-HOWDY  second annual VIdeo Party. The Place:  
FOUND IT. PLEASE CALL JOHN AGAIN AT8810.  I need tickets to any remaining home  needed 2 to 4 penn state GA's call Mat 8689  0PERATION CROSSROADS AFRICA­Center for Social Concerns-3-5 PM  from Sunny South Bend' Hope all is well tor Y'all down in D.C.-I can hear those  Chautauqua. The Time: Friday. Novem· ber 4th, from 9 p.m. til 2 a.m. (that"s  
game (NAvY. PITT. or AIR FORCE) Call  Mon.Nov. ?-DOMINICAN APOSTOLIC  wedding bells from HERE! Luv. little Etta  tonight tor all or you engineers... ) The  
LOST: GREY CASSETTE CARRYING  Joe a11208 BEFORE you sell yours.  need 9 Pitt GAs or student tickets. call  VOLUNTEER PROGRAM-Lib.  Cost: one measly dollar! V1deos Will be  
CASE CONTAINING APPROX. SEVEN  Rob Kabob 2n·5263. Will top your best  Concourse-9 AM-4 PM Tue. Nov. 8­ shown on a wide-screen viewer and on  
CASSETTES. POSSIBLY LOST  WANTED: 3 STUD. PITT. TIX. CALL  offer. for sure!  ANAWIM HOUSE-Waukegan. IL-Center  HI EVERYBODY  two 25-inch television monitors. Come  
BEFORE USC GAME IN PARKING LOT D2. PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 1128  STEVE 88l:9-'i'fi~\~~-. :"P(r<'~"  NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'S. Call Meg at  for Soc1al Concerns-12-6 PM Wed. Nov. 9-JESUIT VOLUNTEER CORPS-Center  and dance it off to five hours ot video! Rebel and Robbi say... be there or  
WITH ANY INFO.  NEEDED AT LEAST 6 GA TIX FOR THE  8013aher10.  for SC-9 AM-5 PM-Call 239-5293 tor ap­ WE HATE PITT PARTY TONIGHT!!! BE  beware.  
PITT GA~IE ON NOV. 5TH. CALL  pointment. Fri.Nov. 4 (AM only) Warren  THERE!! 114 CASL TE POINT  
Found. Hand Knit sweater on path near  CATHY No 6n3.  HEY!!!!!NEED 2 PITT GA's!!!CALL DUDE  Wright from JVCs will be at the CSC to talk  TONIGHT: THE EVENT OF THE  
Music Bldg. on Tues. Call2n-3443.  1150  wrth students. Thur.Nov.10-VIDA  WABASHIll  SEMESTER: THE VINCENT E. WEHBY  
Need Pitt til:. Call1695.  VOLUNTEERS of Southern Colorado­ DEBUTANTE BALL. 4-WEST KEENAN  
FOUND Gold Pendant outside of  Need 1 Penn State ticket. Jim 283-1558.  Library Concourse-9 AM-4PM CALL 239­ Drink FREE If you are from WABASH at  HALL 10:00 ­2:00. BE HERE AS OUR  
Madeleva Hall it has initials of MWM on  DESPEAATEL Y NEED TWO PITT GA"S  5293 FOR ADDITIONAL  GRACE HALL tallgaterlll  FAVORITE SON FROM NASHVILLE  
llle front call 4389 and Identity.  TOGETHE,~I! CALL JEFF 8917  NEED 2 STU or GA for PITT. TOM x6842.  INFORMATION.  MAKES HIS DEBUT IN SOCIETY.  


... 
The Observer Friday, November 4, 1983-page 16 
Friends 
mourn Halas 
Associated Press 

The funeral for former Chicago Bears owner Gt·orge Halas yesterday was attended by members of Halas' immediate family and a constella­tion of NFL owners, Hall of Famers, journeymen Bear players from decades past, stars of the present. and rookies who barely knew the man who guided the team for more than 60 years. 
NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle headed the list of mourners who in­cluded 80-year-old Pittsburgh Stec:lers owner Art Rooney, Dallas Cowboys General Manager Tex St·hramm, Los Angeles Raiders owner AI Davis, NFL players Associa­tion president Gene Upshaw, foot­hall oddsmaker James "Jimmy the Greek" Snyder. DePaul University basketball Coach Ray Meyer, Hall of Fame Hear running back Gale Sayers, t·urrent Hear Coach Mike Ditka, and ti>rmer Chicago Mayor Michael Hilandic . 
. . . Women 
continuedfrom page 20 

Court this term, contends the legislation applies only to programs receiving direct federal funding, and not extra-curricular activities like sports. 
The NCAA. which went co court to successfully gain control of women's athletics from the Associa­tion of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women. has long contended that Title IX docs not extend to privatdy-financed activities. 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
$  4 Pitt GA Tlx Needed  $  
$  Price Negotiable  $  
$  call collect: Mike Mulligan  $  
$ $  between 10-4 312·775-4427 after 5 312-751-1111  $ $  

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
BETIER DATING 
Compatibility Cords! Expand Friendships! Give, exchange the new revealing "DATE-A-CARD"'m 
4o cards $2, plus .75 Posl./handllng. Write: MARIGOlD SUPPLY Box 309BN, Warren, Ohio 44485 


SAVE40% ON CASIO a 
FX700 ¥ 
computer system 

pr~~~=rdee: 125 00 cassette 1nterface • pr1nter CBSSBtte program 

Mfr. sugg. ret. 20985 
• • . Briefs 
continuedfrom page 15 

The off-campus hockey team is being 
formed. If you are interested in playing, call Warren at 277-6295. Rosters must be submitted by November 9. -The Observer 
A one-day grad/fac soccer tourna­
ment set for Nov. 12 has been announced by NVA. Bring in a roster and $5 to the NVA office. If you would like to play but don't have a team, you may play on the "open team." Bring fifty cents to the NVA office to add your name to the list. Deadline for rosters is today. -The Observer 
A run-a-thon sponsored by the Fellowship of Christian Athletes will take place tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. on Cartier Field. Members are accepting pledges. Proceeds will go to the St. Vincent de Paul Society. -The Observer 
The Flying Fathers, known as "the Harlem 
Globetrotters ofice hockey," will play a game next Wednesday, Nov. 9, at the ACC for the benefit ofPhoenix House, the halfway house for recovering alcoholic women in South Send. The Fathers, an internationally-known group of priests, have all at one time played either amateur or pro hockey prior to entering the seminary. They will play 20-minute periods against the Notre Dame club hockey team, the St. Joseph's High School hockey team, and the Ice Boxers ofthe Michiana Senior League. -The Obsen1er 
Notre Dame Women's GolfTeatnmembers are reminded to pick up their Pitt programs from Julie or Jane this afternoon. Also, there will be no meeting this week. -The Obsen1er 
© 1983 Beer Brewed by Miller Brewing Co, Milwaukee, WI 

AND BEFORE I KNEW IT, THEY DONE ROUNDED UP 
MY WIFE AND KIDS AND SHOVED 'EM INTO THE DARN SPACESHIP. 

{ T 
? 
The Observer Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 17 
NHL Stctndings 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvlslon  
W  L  T  GF  GA  Pis  
Edmonton  10  2  1  73  55  21  Boston  
Calgary  5  6  2  44  48  12  Quebec  
Vancouver  5  7  1  62  62  1 t  Buffalo  
Los Angeles  3  6  4  54  60  1 0 : Montreal  
Winnrpey  3  8  2  43  68  8 Hartford  
Norris Division  

Chicago Detroit Toronto St. Lours 
Minnesota 8 5 0 56 47 16 NY Rangers 6 3 2 47 46 14 Philadelphra 6526666 14 NY Islanders 6 7 0 46 51 12 Washington 4 7 1 47 65 9 Pittsburgh 
New Jersey 
Yesterday's Results Detroit 7, Chrcago 4 Montreal 3, Quebec 2 Boston 9. St. Louis 5 Los Angeles 6, Philadelphia 5 Pittsburgh 3. Calgary 3, tie 
Adams Division 
W  L  T  GF  GA Pis.  
8  3  1  58  35  17  
8  6  1  79  55  17  
6  4  3  50  47  15  
6  7  0  57  52  12  
5  6  1  43  51  11  
Patrick Division  
9  4  1  58  46  19  
9  4  1  60  44  19  
7  6  0  56  52  14  
5  8  0  38  48  10  
4  9  1  37  52  9  
1  11  0  34  58  2  


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Tom Lasorda, who led the Los Angeles Dodgers to the National League West title in what was supposed to be a rebuilding year, was named yesterday as NL Manager of the Year by the Baseball Writers Association ofAmerica. 
Earlier yesterday, the BBWAA gave the American League award to Tony LaRussa, who led the Chicago \l~'h1te Sox to their first champion­ship in 24 years. 
· Lasorda, working with a young team full of new faces, piloted the Dodgers to their fourth division title since he became their manager in 

Howtohavt~ classbetweenclasses. 
Managers of the Year 
Lasorda, LaRussa win awards 
1977. L.A has won three league championships under the leadership of the 56-year-old manager who signed a new three-year contract with the Dodgers last week. 
Lasorda edged Bob Lillis of Hous­ton for the award, 10-9 in balloting by the BBWAA panel. Chuck Tanner of Pittsburgh received four votes and Paul Owens of the champion Philadelphia Phillies got one. Lasorda also beat Lillis by a single v tote, 28-27, to win The Associated 
Press NL Manager of the Year poll last month. 
The White Sox had the best 
record in baseball this season with a 
99-63 mark and won AL West Divi· 
sion title by a record 20 games over 
second-place Kansas City. It was 
Chicago's first baseball crown since 
1959 when the Sox were American 
League champions. Baltimore 
eliminated Chicago in four games in 
the AL ChamPJ'i'llship Series and went on to win the World Series. 

";he 28-man BBWAA panel composed of two writers from each league city, gave LaRussa 17 votes. joe Altobelli, manager of the world champion Orioles, was second with seven, and Bobby Cox of ther Toronto Blue Jays finished third with four. 
It marked the first time the BBWAA has given awards for manager of the year. The writers an­nually name Cy Young Award win­ners for the best pitchers in each league, most valuable player awards. and rookie ofthe year awards. 
LaRussa. a licensed attorney in the state of Florida, has been managing the White Sox since mid-1979 and is second only to Sparky Anderson of Detroit in seniority in the league. He also was named American league Manager of the Year by The As­sodated Press. 

Indulge yourself in a warm of Cafe Vienna. It's a light and cin­namony touch of class. And just one of six deliciously different flavors 
from General Foods® International Coffees. 

GENERAL FOODS® INTERNATIONAL COFFEES A~) MUCH A FEELING AS A FLAVOR 
GENERAL FOODS 

©General Foods Corporation 1983 ._____. 
StUdent Union 
PRINTIN.G SERVICE 
New·Replacing campus Press 
Bring camera-ready poster art to S.U. Record-Store for your posters and table tents 
Notr·u Dame 


Francesco's Italian Dining 
Original Southern Italian Home Cooking 'Everything is a· homemade' 
1636 N. Ironwood Ph. 277-6155  Spec1alizmg in: Spaghetti a Ia Carbonara  And a vanety of pasta and  
-6566  Melanzam· stuffed  sandwiches.  
Deliveries Available  egg plant  A/so teaturing  
to NO & SMC  Braciol1 alia Calabrese­ Francesco's Four Season Pizza  
BEER AND WINE  stufled beet roll  
10% discount on dinners and any  

New Hours: Fri4 PM-12 Sat 11 AM·12midnight Sun4-10
large pizzas with coupon 
to ND & SMC students 

Francesco is a forrr.P.r chef of the Holy Cross "Go Irish· Welcome Fans" Fathf.·r~ lor over 21 years 
The New Owners of the Ice House Present 
' I I I I I I
i 

The New Ice House Restaurant featuring exceptional steaks 

~JCR' . seafood & special entrees ' ·1 
f-5-6:30p.m. on FridayandSatw .y
ouseLr

H J I
Noon until 9 p.m. on Sunday ~ESTNJ.RANT No ~oupons Please 1 1 100 Center For reservations call 259-25 

. . . ... . . ... ... . " .... ..
~ ~ 

The Observer Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 18 
• • . Hockey 
continuedfrom page 20 
Whitmore. The fourth isJohn Tiberi, Tom Parent, and Becker. 
On defense, Smith has a core a 
veterans stacking thrt·e pairs. The 
first is Bowie teamed with sopho­
more Bob Thebeau. Rob Ricci has 
returned to the lineup after sitting 
out a semester, and his defensive 
partner is senior Tony Bonadio. The 
third pair is junior Steve Ely and 
sophomore Greg Duncan. 
The biggt·st transformation the Irish will go through is in their schedule. After partie t ipating in both the Western Collegiate Hockey As­sociation and the Central Collegiate Hockey Association, Notre Dame is now a part ofthe Central States Con­ference. The league was formed about IS years ago and includes Marquette, Northwestern, Illinois, Illinois State, Iowa State, St. Nor­bert's, and the University ofAlabama at Huntsville. All ofthe teams except Alabama are club squads. 
The conference is a loosely held 
group of teams. The only require­
ment is that a team play I S games 
against any ofthe other league mem­
bers. The top four teams at the end 
of the season will compete for the 
championship to be held at Notre 
Dame on March 2 and 3. 
The teams Notre Dame will face arc Iowa State, Illinois State, St. Nor­bert's, Northwestern, Illinois, and Marquette. In addition, the Irish will go on a roadtrip to meet Alabama­lluntsville. 
One special feature of the schedule is a trip to Penn State on February I 0-1 I. The town of Johnstown, Penn., and the Johnstown Amateur Sports Associa­tion is sponsoring Notre Dame's trip in the hopes of advancing amateur hockey in the area. The series will not be played on Penn State's campus, but in Johnstown. 

Looking ahead and evaluating practice so far, Smith is excited about the future. 
''I'm really pleased with the at­titude of the team," he said. "It's been tremendous. They've worked really hard on the ice, and have even worked hard running and condition­ing." 
The only fear Smith harbors is his lack of knowledge about any of the teams Notre Dame will face. 
"We don't know much about many of these teams," he said. "We play 12 varsity games. Those should be competitive, but otherwise we don't know anything." 
Bowie senses an anxious feeling among his teammates to find out about their opponents by playing them. 
"So far things have been really positive on the team," he said. "We've been skating together for four weeks. We're pumped up to play against someone competitively. We've been skating hard, and we can't wait." 
What's up? 
Here's what your teams are doing 
TONIGHT 
field hockey at Dayton Invitational 3:15p.m. 
hockey vs. Illinois State 8p.m. ACC North Dome 

this weekend 
TOMORROW 
volleyball vs. DePaul noon ACC Main Arena 
field hockey 
football vs. Pittsburgh 3:45p.m. Notre Dame Stadium 
hockey 

at Dayton Invitational at Northwestern 
SUNDAY 

volleyball hockey vs. Evansvi lie vs. Northwestern 11 a.m. 7:30p.m. ACC Main Arena ACC North Dome 
Large Screen TV 
Rafferty's Monday Night Football 
-Ladies in Nighty's­Everytime your team scores a touchdown-a free draft beer 

November 4 

Night of Shooting Stars 119821 Italy Drrected by Paolo & Vittono Tavranr Italian wrth English subtitles, color, 110 min A woman's remembrances of her childhood experience of the last days of World War II metamorphose into a wondrous collective vis1on by aU the villagers caught up in these events 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum ADMISSION$2.oo 
~---lr ~u 

P-M__, 

::: 
DINNER HOURS -NORTH AND SOUTH DINING HALLS < 
7:00 PM -8:30 PM 

ALL AMERICAN DINNER GUESTS OF THE UNIVERSITY ARE WELCOME 
$6.00 

OAK ROOM CAFETERIA 7:00AM -8:30 PM CASH -A LA CARTE OPERATION 
"SUNDAY FALL FESTIVAL BRUNCH" SPECIAL: SPECIAL: SPECIAL: 11 :00 AM -1:30 PM 
BRUNCH PRICE $3.75 

FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIAL 7253 
.. 
:::~:::.:::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:.:;:::::.:::::::. :-:::.:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::;: ~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.: .::: 
Weel<end 
Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 19 
Berke Breathed

Bloom County 
L£MIIf, fEU. YA ... fl€./N' A ROCK STAR 15 NO GRf.P.f 5HAK~5 ... U~, SINe£ YOO CA,..; HAV(; ANY1HIN0 YA WANT, rT fXN'f 5tf,M ANY G<XX7 
WH€N YA ~T IT... / NO JJKE.. 
Fate 






Campus. 
•12 
p.m. -Physics Seminar, "Turbulence in Liq· uid Mixtures Near a Critical Point," Prof. ]. V. Maher, 401 NSH 

•12:15 
p.m. -Govt. Dept. Colloquium, "The Problem of Minorities in Rousseau," Prof. Edward Goerner, 509 Memorial Library 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "(Relativistic) Electronic Structure and Bonding of Hg(Ch3 )2 and Hg( CN )2 · Hartree-Fock-Slater Results," Sponsored by Prof. Roger DeKock, 123 NSH 

•5 
p.m. -Social, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Am­nesty International 

•7 
p.m. -Pep Rally, Stepan Center 

•7 
p.m. -Art Opening, Photographs by Steve Prinster, ISIS Art Gallery 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Night of Shooting Stars," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Ice Hockey, NO Men vs. Illinois State, 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, AC/DC, ACC, 511.50 and $12.50 

•8 
and 10 p.m. and 12 a.m. -Film, "Psycho," K of C Hall, Sponsored by Knights of Columbus, S 1, Members Free 

•8 
p.m. ND Gaming Club Meeting, 204 O'Shag 

•8 
p.m. Coffeehouse Musical Entertain­ment, Michael Reinhart, Chaeleon Room HCC, Free 

•8:
15 p.m. -Concert, Darlene Catello, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Music Department 


Saturday, Nov. 5 
•10:30 
am.-Volleyball, NO Women vs. DePaul, ACC 

•3:45 
p.m. -Football, NO vs Pittsburgh, Stadium 

•8 
p.m. -Slldeshow, "Space Weapons-The Next Arms Race," Sponsored by Center for Social Con­cerns, Free 

•8 
and 10 p.m. and 12 a.m. -Film, "Psycho," K of C Hall, Sponsored by Knights of Columbus, S1 

•8:30 
p.m. -ND Gaming Club Meeting, 204 


O'Shag Sunday, Nov. 6 
•11 
am. -Volleyball, NO Women vs. Univ. of Evansville, ACC 

•1 
p.m. -Workshop, Sponsored by Urban Plunge, Library Auditorium 

•1 
p.m. -Opening Exhibition, Douglas Kinsey: Paintings and Graphics, O'Shaughnessy Galleries 

•7 
p.m.-Campus wide Mass, Fr. Theodore Hes­burgh, Stanford Keenan Chapel, Sponsored by Fall Festival 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ice Hockey, NO. Men vs Northwes­tern,ACC 

•8 
p.m. -SMC Concert, Little Theatre 

•8 
p.m.-Film, "IfYou Love This Planet," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Educational Media, Free 

•8 
p.m.-Reception, for all Fall Festival Workers, Lewis Party Room 


Far Side. 

tAti\P't\( 
~ ~jll.~(l;l\ 
Photius 
NOW Tfi£Y f)tJ 
TfiEtf WORLD-FAMWS "STflii~HT IJNE '· ROUTINE · OH CoME, O!Jll Cftf'£5 
~JiFJ§~\ 


OH W[U, .. 
56 Deserter 
57 Dramatic conflict 59 Moneyol 
a kind 61 -mignon 63 Apace 65 Freezers 66 Muddled 67 Sucre's 
land: abbr. 68 Simpletons 69 Fever: abbr. 70 Country 
monogram 
DOWN Everglades state 
2 Dwells 3 Islets 4 Black or 
Red 5 Church sections 6 Sicilian volcano 7 Donna or Rex 8 Poisonous snake 9 Craft 10 More like a beach 
11 Cistercian abbey near Monmouth 
12 Bend in a ship's timber 16 Less ruddy 17 Towel word 21 Roadwork 
sign 25 Horse feed 27 Both: pre!. 28 Vane 
letters 30 Fastguys 31 Combo 34 State in 
Bordeaux 35 Writer 
Yutang 38 Sheltered 39 Pair 40 Agt. 41 Greed 42 Run of 
musical 
notes 45 Bobs 46 Coronation 
bracelet 47 Likesome 
rugs 49 Tchrs.' org. 51 Not final, 
in law 53 Rodent 54 Against 
something 58 Mountain pass 60 Philippine 
city 61 Fruit 62 Lao·­64 Seance 
sound 

The Daily C1rossword 

ACROSS 1 -Lippo Lippi 4 European basin 8 Aides: abbr. 13 Greeting 
lor Don Ho 14 Fleuret 15 Santander's 
land 16 Without 
delay 18 Coin 19 Originate 20 Termini 22 Time zone 
letters 23 Hat 24 Ponselle or 
Bonheur 26 Women 29 Capital of 

Macedonia 31 Planes 32 File 33 Anatomical 
tissue 36 Carried 37 Part of 
Asia 40 Relative of the badger 43 Williamsor Warhol 44 Word of 
comparison 48 Obvious 50 Michael 
the actor 52 Zoroastrian 53 South of 
France 55 Gremlin 
Thursday's Solution 

·······················l·················..·············liil···
! WHATDOESTHE i
. -· .
i STUDENTUNIOJ~RECORDSTORE !
. -. 
; CHEAPER PRICES... saveU-32~/Istprices! HAVE FOR ME? : ; MOSTCURRENTSINGLES-s.uo(comparea• : : $8. 991ist) : ; CUT-OUTS... s298-S5.98 : ; GREATSELECTION... Springsteen, Fogelberg, Steveie : e Nicks, Christopher Cross, Moody Blues, Pat Bena10r, Journey and • 
e many, many more... • 
: ALSO... recorded and blank tapes available. :
•e CONVENIENCE... TheNDSU Record !;tore is loct}ted 8• : on ihe Main Floor o;'f.aFortune. : • Plus-ordered albums take only one week to arrive! • 


Fall Festival Concludes 
Prepare to pound Pitt! 

D.J. Mike Dardurand 
I 
I 
I Sports Friday, November 4, 1983 -page 20 
Hockey team ready to start season tonight 

ByJANE HEALEY evaluate their performances and Assistant Sports lidttor make a decision about the remain­der of the season. Until then, the 
Tonight is the hq~inning of a new three goalies will battle it out. na in Notrt· Dame hockey. After 13 Sophomore Gary Beckn, a new years as a varsity sport, the Irish dub member, will he filling the right begin their I 9H3-H4 season with the wing position on Smith's fourth line. status of a dub team. The opening While another new face, freshman game is against Illinois State at H p.m. Tom Smith, will be on the left wing in the ACC. on the third line. 
Tomorrow night, the team will be lbe addition of the new people in Evanston, Ill. taking on Northwes­has not created any disturbances on tern, and, on Sunday, it's hack home the team that Smith has noticed. to host the Wildcats at 7:30 p.m., "There is more of a division be· also in the ACC. tween our top twenty and the other 
With the departure of eight var­team than there has been in the sity players (out of a possible 26), past," Smith said. "But the new club Coach Lefty Smith had to pick up an members have fit in well. They've extra I I dub players. Three ofthose got an excellent attitude." 

TONIGHT 
hockey vs. Illinois State 8p.m. ACC North Dome 
TOMORROW 
volleyball vs. DePaul noon ACC Main Arena 

Co-captain joe Bowie sees an even smoother transition than Smith 
does. Tht ObKrvn/Paul Cif:uclli 
"Everything is going really well Defenseman joe Bowie, one of this year's co­Illinois State visits the ACC at 8 p.m. There is.fn!e with the new guys," he said. "I don't captains, arul his teammates on the Notre Dame admission for students with an J.D. For more on think we notice the differences." hockey club will begin their first season since the hockey team, see the related stories on this 
The team members returning bein~ demoted from varsity status tonight when page. from last year fill out the rest of the lineup. Co-captain and left wing 
Trying to form blueprint 

Brent Chapman, the second-leading scorer last season for the Irish, will be joined by juniorTim Reilly on the right wing and sophomore Mark 
Women athletes discuss future 
Benning at center to complete the 
first line. Benning played defense for Associated Press • gold-medal winner and current William Simo, president ofthe U.S. the Irish last year but was switched president of the Women's Sports Olympic Committee and one of the to center to fill Smith's needs. Foundation. "We may have come a organizers of the conference, told 
"We were weak at the center posi­WASHINGTON -Some of the longway, but there is still a long way the newspaper USA Today: "Only 35 tion," he said. "Mark has a good biggest names in women's sports to go." percent ofthe Olympic competition hockey sense, and we hoped he gathered in the nation's capital yes­Featured speakers will include is for women and that's wrong. It's could adapt. It has worked out well terday for the start ofa four-day con­tennis great Billie jean King, golfs time the world sports leaders move so far." ference aimed at forming a modem Carol Mann, marathoner joan into the 20th century." 
The No. 2 Irish line has senior blueprint for women's athletics. Benoit, Olympic track gold Women's athletics received a 
will ht· a part of the starting lineup Adam Parsons at center, Mike Brought together under the ban­medalists Wilma Rudolph, Wyomia boost in 1972 following passage of this weekend. Metzler to the right and Dave ner of "The New Agenda" by the Tyus and Madeline Manning, Janet Title IX of the Education Amend­
Freshman Tim Lukt·nda will he Waldbillig on the left side. Women's Sports Foundation and the Guthrie, the first woman to race in ments Act. starting in goal for the Irish against The third and fourth lines have U.S. Olympic Committee, more than the Indianapolis 500, and Sally Ride, Five years after the act was passed, the Wildcats at home. Upperclas­shown promise for Smith, hut he b 500 delegates are to discuss the America's first woman astronaut. more than 64,000 women were par· smen Marc Guay and AI Havercamp still waiting for them to become future ofwomen in the sports world. Topics to be discussed include ticipating on school sports teams, will ht.· responsible for the nets consistent. The third is comprised of the physiological concerns of more than double the number of during the ISll and the first Smith, Jeff Badalich, and Steve "The time is right for a national women in sports, promotion and women participating in 1971, the Northwestt·rn game. At the conclu­review of women's sports," says public acceptance of women in year before Title IX was enacted. 
see HOCKEY, page 18

sion of tht.· wtTkend, Smith will Donna de Varona, former Olympic sport, and athleticism and sex roles. Lately, however, Title IX ha~ been 
Questions regarding involvement criticized by both the justice 
of women in the Olympics and Title Department and the National Col· 
IX, the federal legislation forhidding legiate Athletic Association. 
sex discrimination by any school The justice Dcptartmcnt, in a suit
Hockey's future rests with students 
receiving federal money, arc also ex­to be argued before the Supreme 
pected to be aired during the con­see WOMEN, page 17
ference.
It's starting all over again. 
When tht· Notre Dame hockey club takes the ice tonight, tht· whole hockey issue will be renewed. 

Jane Healey 
Last st·ason is over. Eight players have left. The team is officially a duo sport. But the' speculations, expecta­Assistant Sports Editor tions, and analyzations go on. 
What will happen next year? Will the Irish return to 


varsity status? What level of competition if they do  
hecomc varsity? What does the varsity issue depend on?  
I've got an answt·r some people might not like. The  maintain a credible Notre Dame student-athlete image  ByJERRY MELIA  Gold Illustrated.  Wei! will be a'i·  
studt·nt body now ha~ the responsibility ofbringing var·  as a cluh squad?  Sports Writer  sistcd by Cindy Salvino who is cur­ 
sity hot·kt·y back to life.  The answer to that question seems in the bag. Last  rently Ms. South Bend.  
Deriving that conclusion wa~ easy. All I had to do was  year, during the fight for varsity status, and even after  On  Tuesday  evening  of  next  Wei!  will  put  down  the  myths  
examine tht· facts. Figuring out how to deal with that  that status had been revoked, no team member ever lost  week, there will be a group instruc·  about weight training in this discus­ 
conclusion is tht· problem.  his cool or embarassed the school's reputation.  tion session  on  strength and  con·  sion session. The ba~ics  of muscle  
"Jbt· athletic administration told us la'it year that the  To quote Smith from last year: 'Tm proud ofthe class  ditioning  at  8  p.m.  in  the  ACC  physiology and bodily adaptations  
two rt·asons for the demotion of the hockey program  and dignity this team displayed all year. There were no  Football Auditorium. The class will  to weight training will also be dis·  
were the <."ost of the program and the lack of student  emotional outbre-aks or embarassing moments. They  then separate into two groups. Wed·  cussed.  
support. 'lbey added though, that ifthc fans were there, the dollars and cents could be justified. So this yt·ar, a~ a club, the money ha~ been cut back. Tht· hudgt·t is reduced. "Jbere are no additional scholar­ships ( tht· existing I H will he fufilled ). The players have to huy thl'ir own skates. lbc team isn't in the CCHA, and the travd expt.·nst·s have been cut. Otherwise, tht· practicing, the competing, and the wondering go on. Right now no one -not even Coach Lefty Smith -can know what will happen next year. I can guess after talking to Smith that the decision won't even be made until tht· end of the sca'>on after the team has been  displayed character Notre Dame can be proud of." The last requirement will be fun support. Well, here we go again. This is the only area in which this club team is going to encounter problems -in fact, has al­ways encountered serious problems. For some reason (I wish I knew which one) Notre Dame hockey is about as popular on campus as the dining hall food. Last year, the average student attendance at games was hetween 200 and 300 people. The administration loved to men· tion that fact. The South Bend-Mishawaka community ha~ provided Notre Dame hockey with good fan support. The Blue Line Club and the IndianaYouth Hockey League ( lYHL)  ncsday, November 9, the women will meet at 7:30 p.m. in the ACC Varsity Weight Room. Then, on Thursday, the men will meet on the same time and place. Gary Wei! will be conducting this NVA short course in weight training. Wei! is a professional in strength and conditioningand has been the coach for this kind oftraining for all varsity athletes at Notre Dame over the past two years. Wei! ha'i an extensive background  "lberc will also be a presentation on the different programs that a per­son can use to train depending on how a person wants to train, and for what reason he what to train, he it for physical fitnes~ or fr r a particular sport. Through demonstrations and handouts, W eil will show proper techniques on how a person can condition each part ofthe body. This part of the session will also include tips on how to prevent injuries.  
eva)uated on sevt·ral different levels.  have supplied their share offans to the games. I .t's the  in this  area.  He received  his hac·  Salvino will address the  women  
Obviously, wins and losses will be important. Smith  Notre Dame students who arc not showing up.  helor's degree in Physical Education  and discuss the way women should  
doesn't know much about the teams Notre Dame will  By now, you see what I'm driving at. The team can  and later his Masters in Kinesiology  go about this kind oftraining.  
f.tn· (four ofthe 12 opponents arc varsity squads). With  handle the wins and losses. The team can manage its  at Arizona State.  He  was a  weight  This program is open to all Notre  
I H returning Division I varsity players, though, a betting  own good character. The rest is up to the students. The  training consultant to the Los An­ Dame students and staff. The session  
person would put lots of money on a successful Irish  students have to provide the needed fan support ­ the  geles Raiders of the NFL and the Ed­ will last for about an hour. There is a  
campaign. I'd go as far to say that Notre Dame could be  support the adminstration said wa'i lacking.  monton  Eskimos  in  the  Canadian  J2 fee for both evenings. It is impor­ 
the best dub team around.  Do you think you can handle that? I certainly hope so,  Football League. He has published a  tant to remember to register prior to  
Secondly, the team members will be judged on the  because ifnot, you'II probably never see varsity hockey  number of articles on the subject in  the first session. Registration is at the  
character they display throughout the season. Can they  at Notre Dame again.  The Sporting News and Blue and  NVA office in the ACC.  



