----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Liberty Bowl -page 12 

VOLXVlll, NO. 57 the independent student m:wspaper st-r\·ing notrl dame and saint man ·s MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1983 

Unsanitary conditions reported in food sales 
By MARY HIGGINS frequent disposal of garbage; insect News Staff and rodent infestations; and ex­cessive fire hazards. 
Conditions in residence hall food According to McCauslin, Indiana sales are "deplorable," according to state food laws require any and all a report on inspections conducted operations that sell, serve, or dis­earlier this month. tribute prepared food must be 
The inspections were conducted licensed to do so. As a result, should 
on Nov. 8 and Nov. II. In his report a problem develop relating to the to Father john Van Wolvlear, vice hall food sales, the University would president for student affairs, campus be liable. Environmental Safety Specialist, "A potential foodbome disease 
Michael McCauslin stated, outbreak would wreak untold "Generally ...conditions found havoc," said McCauslin. within the residence hall food sales The report recommends that all 
are deplorable." food sales be limited to pre­Van Wolvlear said because of the packaged food. This would 
University's liability. certain fire eliminate the need for dishwashing hazards and improper sanitation facilities, most utensils, potentially conditions jeopardize the Univer· hazardous food storage problems, sity's insurance policy. Thus, inspec· and most fire-hazard-related items. tions were conducted by McCauslin, Also, all food sales operators are Fire Captains Mark Esenwein and recommended to have some food Fred Schleiger, and Firefighter service knowledge or receive 
Wayne Bishop. proper training. 
McCauslin listed several This is the first time that hall food problems prevalent in hall food sales sales have been inspected. Student including: unsanitary floors, walls, managers were not forewarned and and ceilings; unsafe food storage (i.e. will not be in the event offuture in­on floor, under sewer lines, etc.); in· spections. 

Controversial TV show raises questions about nuclear war 
Associated Press public meetings in dozens of cities several weeks seems to avoid much told the crowd that had just seen is really at stake in a nuclear war." throughout the week. of the radiation from the nuclear ABC-TV's "The Day After." Longhurst called for a meeting be· 
After weeks of hot debate, TV Many teachers planned to discuss strike on Kansas City. However, at "This is still the day before," he tween U.S. and Soviet leaders on the viewers yesterday saw for them­the show and feelings about nuclear the end of the movie, a message on said. nuclear arms race, and he said it was selves "The Day After," and war with their classes this morning. the screen says the results of a full The ceremony was sponsored by "our ultimate duty" to prevent Secretary ofState George Shultz said ABC executives called it "the nuclear strike would likely be much Let Lawrence Live, peace group or· nuclear war. the ABC movie depicting a nuclear most important movie we or anyone worse than those depicted in "The ganized around the film that depicts 
The ceremony took place beneath 
attack on Kansas City is "not the else have ever made" and it came Day After." a nuclear attack and its aftermath in a full moon at a flagpole on a hillside future at all." against the backdrop of a debate in After seeing the film, Dr. Howard this college community of53,000 in just below the Memorial Campanile,"The film is a vivid and dramatic Europe over whether U.S. nuclear Baucbner, a staffpediatrician at Bos­northeast Kansas. 
a 120-foot·tall bell tower on the Uni­
protrayal ofthe fact that nuclear war missiles should he stationed in West ton City Hospital said he was "We saw our community versity of Kansas campus that is simply not acceptable," Shultzsaid Germany. "struck by what would be destroyed this evening," Longhurst honors alumni who died in Worldin an interview on ABC immediately The movie "points out a crying everyone's impotence, especially said. "We saw all of the nightmares War II.
following the broadcast. The policy need for a renewed emphasis on medicine, after the event." come true. We got a glimpse at what of the United tates "for decades civil defense," said Patrick Breheny, About 500 residents of Lawrence now," has been "based on the idea regional director of the Federal lit candles for peace near a hilltop that we simply do not accept a Emergency Management Agency in war memorial last night after watch· 

Application deadline 
nuclear war, and we've been suc­Kansas City. He also said free ing the movie in which their cessful in preventing it." government information on disaster hometown is devastated by nuclear The only reason the United States planning can be obtained by writing holocaust. 

approaches for jobs 
has nudear weapons, Shultz added, FEMA. "I do not want this film to be a "is to see to it that they aren't used." In the movie, a Missouri farm fami· preview of coming attractions," And he said the destructive ly that hides out in the basement for Lawrence Mayor David Longhurst By GWEN TADDONIO favorable, more applicants would 
News Staff have found jobs. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Associa· The application asks for the stu· tion is offering summer job place· dent's occupational goals, two club ment opportunities for 1984, but location preferences, travel limita· 
the Nov. 30 application deadline is tions, and dates available for fast approaching. employment. The applicant must 
Tim Truesdell, assistant director also provide three names of faculty ofthe Alumni Association, corrected members for reference and general several misconceptions students educational background. Forms are 
have when applying. "This (the ap­availahle in the Alumni office and plication) does not always guaran­should be typed and returned hy tee the applicant a job, but Nov. 30. 
establishes communication be· The Student-Alumni Relations tween the student and city alumni Group provided students with an­club presidents," he said. other opportunity to enter the job 
After a student has applied, alumni market with a Career Orientation officers supply him or her with in­Day on Nov. 10. Forty juniors and formation needed to get in touch seniors travelled to Indianapolis for 
with specific club presidents of this event. major cities. From that point on, it is Each student was assigned a Notre the student's responsibility to Dame alumnus from the In­
pursue the job opportunity. dianapolis area working in a career 
Truesdell emphasized the of interest to the student. Par­program is designed mainly to help ticipants spent the day touring cor· college students meet rising costs of porations, asking questions, and education rather than to provide a getting a fed for their career inter­job corresponding to the student's ests. At an Alumni Club dinner that career interests. "Many students evening, students had the oppor­think they will be able to find a job in tunity to discuss informally with 
The O!Mtna-Thom Bradley
Psychiatrists set up hot lines to line with their major. Most of the their hosts the events ofthe day.
Into Irish eyes
help viewers handle the specter of time, this is not the case," he said. Overall, Truesdell described the 


nudear war. Anti-nuclear groups _NotreDame Lepracbaun RichMcNamara nuzzlesa youngfan atFriday Last year, one-third of the ap­day as a major success. Long range scheduled candelight vigils in mght'spep rally. McNamara was carried offthe field during the AirForce plicants found part-time employ­deas are being exc!Janged for future Kansas City and Lawrence after the football game, but only bad the windknocked out ofhim. He returned to ment. Truesdell stated that had the trips to other ·cities including movie, and planned rallies and thefield later in the game. economic situation been more Chicago and Detroit. 
The Observer Monday, November 21, 1983-page 2 

In Brief 
lWO teet1-agers last sec:n hunting near the site of an enormous dynamitt:· blast in Pkasant llill. Iowa remained missing )'l'Stt·rday. and authorities theorized they may have: fired shots that st:·t otr the blast felt up to -l'; milc:s away. llowc:vc:r. Polk County Sheriffs Deputy llarold Strashourg c:rnphasized that that was just a theory and that invt:·stigators wert· still seeking the cause of the ex­plosion in a bunkt·r containing 12 tons ofdynamite:. Authorities had not rdc:a.o,c:d the: names of the missing youths. Deputy Mark llrt:·nt:·man said ifanyone was near the explosion. in an industrial part of this suburh on tht· t'a.'t side of Iks Moines "the: chances ofsurvival arc slim." No othc:r injurit·s wer<: rc:portc:d. but the: explosion, at about 4:50p.m. Saturday, was fdt for milc:s around and kft a crater 50 fc:t:·t dc:t:·p and I00 feet across. -AP 
High winds, rain and what citizc:ns descrihc:d as a funnc:I cloud rippt:·d through the: Tippc:canoc: Mall in Lafayette, Ind. yc:ster· day. hc:avily damagin g two stores and several homes and apartment buildings. No s~:rious injuries wt:rc: rc:ported. Lafayette Police Lt. (it·nt· Rn·d said thrc:c: funnc:l clouds w c:re r~:ported sitc:d as the had wc:athc:r movc:d through tht· wc:st cc:ntral Indiana city at ahout 8:.30 
a.m. "Tht· wind only appc:ared to last for .30 to .3'; minutes. It was wind and rain damage," said Lafayette: Sgt. Edward Moser. "Several citizt:·ns spottc:d a funnd cloud." Mosc:r said there: was only reported injury. a man who was struck hy dc:hris. lle was treatc:d and rdeased at an art· a hospital. Mosc:r said. -AP 
Iran launched a major assault against Iraqi positions in the Kurdish mountains in the: northc:rn battlefront, hut Iraq claimed a "grt:·at victory" yestc:rday. saying its forcc:s killc:d near­ly I I.OOil Iranians. Iran's official Islamic Republic Nc:ws Agc:ncy said heavy batt It-s wnc: still raging yc:stnday "aftc:r tht:· succc:ssful opc:ra­tion" southwest of the Iraqi bonkr town of l't:·njwin. It said an Iraqi battalion and li>ur companies wc:re dc:stroyed. That could mc:an a total forn· of around 2,000 soldiers. A war communique: hroadc;~st by Iraq's Baghdad radio said that aftc:r the: "containmc:nt and final nushing" of the Iranian attackc:rs, the lighting wa.' confinc:d to ar· tillny c:xchangn. Iraqi warplanc:s and hc:licopter gunships mounted raids both in the area of the offc:nsive and dc:c:p inside Iran Saturday and yt:stcrday. the: broadcast said. It claimed I0,984 Iranian soldiers wc:re kilkd and a large: nurnhc:r were: wounded or captured along with a large: quantity of usable: wt·apons. -AP 

About 4 million Americans will he travc:ling by airplane, train or hus this Thanksgiving wec:kend, according to the Travd Industry Association of Amnica. That will make I he: Nov. 25-2~ paiod the husic:st wec:kc:nd of the: year for scheduled transportation. the: industry group said in a news rc:lc:ase. According to the association. more than 2. S million pt:·opk will use the intercit}' bus system. I.'; million will take commercial airline tlights, and at least I00.000 will ride by train. Spokesmen for various transporta­l ion n>mpanies advist·d thosl· planning to travc:l over the holiday W<Tkl'lnl lO makl· rcsl-rvations if possihk and to allow extra time to makl· sure they catch their trains or huses. -AP 
Violence flared in impovl'fished Oaxaca state. Mexico as votns cast ballots in spl-cialekctions yesterday li>llowing a hitter campaign bl'tW<Til communists and Mexico's governing Institution­al Revolutionary Party. In ,\tagall'na Tequisistlan, the mayor said two men and a woman wne shot to death and 20 people: were wounded in a dash hctWlTn lal'tions of tht:· Institutional Rl·volutionary Party -I'Rl. Mayor Arid Zaratt:· Cabrera said somt:· 1,200 people were marching in support ofJesus Montt·ro Tolc:dano who had wanted to reprt·sent the party in tht:· mayoral election. W'hen they approached a polling plan·. tlu-y WTre met by 50 armed men who fired into the 
crowd. Zaratt· said. An t·stimatc:d one million voters across the south­ern statt:· went to the polls to ekct S70 mayors. with the PRI ex­IKCted to win most of the races. Local officials said they did not expl'<:t any results to ht:· announced until this afternoon, and it would probably take a week to compile otlicial results. -AP 
Of Interest 
Staying over Break? The World Hunger Coalition is sponsoring a Thanksgiving dinner at St. Augustine's soup kitcht:·n for the needy residt'nts of the area. Anyone interested in hdping to Sl'f\T the dinner from I I a.m. to 2 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day should t:·ontat:·t Carol aJ "''>.~5 or :\tall at 5';~8. Transportation will be pnl\'idnl. -Tbe ( J!Jsen •er 


Weather· __ ,· 
Becoming partly sunnyand mild today. Highs in the: mid to upper SOs. Partly cloudy and not as cold tonight, with lows in the low to mid 40s. Partly cloudy and mild tomorrow. Highs in the mid and uppn ';Os. -AP 


Photo 1File Americans overseas 
Honduras 
Three U.S. Marines lay next to a road during joint U.S. -Honduras military' exercises near Puerto Cas­tilla, Honduras, Friday. Near~y 1500 Marines and Honduran sol­diers participated in thisjoint am­phibious landing. 

_Th.e_Obseryer_ 
Composition Editor..... ...... Caruk Composi/i(Jtl Assistant ............ Chris 
'l)•peseti<'TS ..................... Michelle anc.l Ni<'k 
Neu's Editor ....... ......................... ......... Tom Copy Edilor ......... Amy anc.l Pel<' 
Sports CopJ' Editor... Roseann's very best 
friend Features Copy Editor ...... Sarah and Mary Vieu·piont Layout. . ................... Tom 
SMC Dav Editor. ...................... : ... Mary Ann Photographer. ....... Tht>m 
Guest Appearances......... A nuclear war; a 
lovesick Long Islander, and a sick one; 
Donnhy, Kansa"i, and highwinds; Kevin, a 
holy man with unholy Janguag~; a call 
from Rico, a call to Davi~.. 
Quore.ofthe !Ja}' "17-1 5-1 and they mak~ hockey a dub 
sporr!" 
''Tht: gods or whot"ver make thl' world go 'round shuftkd when they should've cut." 
The ObMrver USPS (599 2-4000) IS publtshed Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacatoon penods The ObMrver IS publtshed 
1 I
234-6010 or come by515 Lincolnway West
by the students of Notre Dame and Sa.nt Marys College. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased lor $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt.ng The ObMrver. P 0 E!lox 0. Noire 
I AMERICA~,;~~~~A SYSTEMS I 
Dame. Indiana 46556 
A Natrona! Concern Dedicated to Extending the Lives of Others 
I
The ObMrver is a member of The Auocl.ted PreN. All 
I 1
Tues and Sat 8am-5pm reproduction nghts s1re reserved. 
I I
Wed and Fri 9am-5pm 
~--~-----~-------­
Lebanon 

Two U.S. Marines who are part of the newly arrived 22nd MAU in Beirut walk past the remains ofthe destroyed headquarters, Saturday afternoon, where 239 Marines died in a bombing last month. 
APPhoto 
Grenada 

U.S. soldiers hoard a military• cargo plane Thursday, beginning their trip home from from Grenada's Pearls Airiport. Military• operations are scaling down since the Oct. 25 U.S.-/ed im•asion of the Caribbean island. 
r----------------~ 
I 
II 
I 
II 


INFLATION / I GOTYOUI I 
BLOOD I 
BOILING? I 
I
We can help relieve I some of that pressure! 1 
I HOW?wewillpayyou I 
I up to $16 CASH Per week for your time. I 
I I
I 

It'' "''. Jootoom• ioto ooc o•w mod•m faoi Uty mta> iooomfy reclining chairs while you dorwte LIFE-GIVING PLASMA. 

I: ~~
You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your 
1 I 
I 
second donation within the same week...AND we will give you a free physical exam and over $60 worth of free lab tests. 
PLUS I 1 We Will Give You an Additional 
I 
I $4 If you bring this ad with you. 1
I '[r~ffer applicable to first time donors on~y!)' I I I
For more information call 




· · · · 

The Observer Monday, November 21, 1983-page 3 
impossible to determine what hit the plane. 
The pilot parachuted into an area

Applications for 
held hy the Lebanese army and was later picked up hy an Israeli air force 
For this week and Sunday 

when you arrive back at N.D. 
helicopter. the Israeli military com­
MOCK CONVENTION 
mand announced.

COMMITTEE HEADS 
The plane crashed in the Sfeir
BRUNO will deliver a 
neighborhood about a half-mile

and CAMPAIGN 
from the Beirut airport, headquar­
Large 18" Pizza 
ters for the the I ,800-man l :.s.

MANAGER POSITIONS 
Marine contingent of the multina­tional force patrolling the capital. 
FREE to campus 
For only $8 any toppings 
There was no official word on casualties in the bombings, hut a 

should be picked up at the Student Govt. 
Offices at LaFortune before Thanksgiving 
statement from the Syrian-hacked
277-4519 

and turned in by TUESDAY, NOV. 29 
Druse militia said Israeli bombs killed at least two civilians and
Open 4·11 
wound ed eight in the Druse-.
7 days a week 
controlled town of So tar. It gave no other details. 

The Notre Dame Alumni Association, in cooperation with the Career & Placement Services Office, will again sponsor the Summer Job Placement Program in 1984. 
If you are interested in applying for summer jobs in an alumni club city, obtain an application from the Alumni Office, 201 Admin. Bldg. Applications must be completed and returned by Nov. 30 
OVERSEAS JOBS 
Summer/year round. Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Asia. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightseeing. Free info. Write IJC, Box 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
Ir------------------1 
I  I I  
Buy two regular dinners and receive $2 off with this  
coupon.  


Well-dressed men 
jim Herr and Chris Pomasl, Glee Club singers, 
vocalize during Friday night's concert in Washington Hall. Over 100 Glee Club alumni were in the audience, whichfilled the ball. 

Andropov sends letter to Germans 
Associated Press 
BONN. West Germany -Soviet President Yuri V. Andropov sent a letter to Chancellor Helmut Kohl, a spokesman for Kohl said yesterday, the eve of a debate on the deploy­ment of NATO nuclear missiles in West Germany. 
Meanwhile, police reinforced security in the government district to discourage violence by anti­missile activists, and said they will ring the Parliament building today during the debate on an issue that pected tomorrow is not necessary. 
The Parliament debate is ex­pected to be heated, particularly af­ter the Social Democrats' rejection of the missiles. 
BRUNO'S PIZZA II 
(Across from Big "C" Lumber) 
has divided the country. chancellery Friday evening by 
Chancellery spokesman Alexan­Soviet Ambassador Vladimir der Allardt declined to reveal what Semyonov, Allardt said. the letter from Andropov said. But Kohl wrote to Andropov Oct. 29 the conservative Hamburg to ask that the Soviets make a new newspaper Bild Am Sonntag said the proposal at tile Geneva arms talks on Soviet president warned that the medium-range missiles. West German government must be Kohl will be the first speaker in prepared to "take the conse­the Parliament debate today. He is a quences" if it goes through with the staunch supporter of the deploy­missile deployment. ment and his governing coalition has 
The first battery of nine Pershing a 58-seat majority in Parliament, so 2 missiles could be placed in West the missile plan is expected to win Germany as early as Wednesday. approval. The chancellor says the The letter was delivered to the parliament's 1981 approval was suf­ficient and this new vote -ex­

Change in party roles considered successful 
By ERIK HICKEY 
News Staff 
Several hall presidents have expressed satisfaction with the results of the new Hall Presidents Council policy to charge women $1 at parties in men's dorms. 
The dollar fee is intended to im­prove the usually sparse fare of snacks and non-alchoholic beverages provided at dorm parties. The resolution also ensures the privacy of parties by requiring all men to be on a guest list and every person admitted to show a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's II:'. 
Since the passage ofthe resolution both Zahm and Keenan Halls have held in-hall parties and enforced the $1 charge. Keenan Hall Social Com­missioner Mark Greenwood es­timated approximately $120 was collected from women at the last Keenan party. Greenwood said the money will be used to reduce men's expenses and to insure an ample supply of soft drinks and snacks at future Keenan parties. 
According to Bob Johnson, Zahm Hall president, resolution guidelines were followed "to the letter" at the 

Israeli plane downed during retaliatory raid 
Associated Press State radio said as many as 18 warplanes struck a half-dozen BEIRUT, Lebanon -Swarms ofls­
villages in the 4"i-minute attack, the raeli fighter-jets rocketed and third Israeli retaliatory strike this strafed positions in the Syrian-held 
month against targets in Syrian-held 

mountains ea.-;t of Beirut in a parts of Lebanon. retaliatory raid yesterday, and Syria claimed two Israeli planes ground gunners shot down at least were downed, hut the Israeli 
one ofthe planes. military command in Tel Aviv 
The fighters came sweeping in reported the loss of only one._lt said from the Mediterranean, roared low the plane was shot down by ground over Beirut and hurtled east starting 
gunners and the pilot parachuted to at 2 p.m. (7 a.m. EST). They made at safety. least a dozen runs over the capital Witnesses in Beirut saw one plane and the mountains. suddenly slow, sway and plunge, crashing in flames. They said it was 
Zahm party, but the atmosphere at the party did not suffer. 
Johnson observed, "Some giris turned away at first, but then they would stop and look back, and decide to pay." He adds that for the most part women seem to think the resolution is a good idea. 
Walsh Hall President Karen Kos­tecky would disagree. While she herself is in favor of the resolution. she said many girls only want to talk to a few friends and don't actually drink while at parties. "I wouldn't want to pay a dollar for every party (if attending more than one)," she said, adding that a dollar is only a minor factor in deciding whether or not to attend more than one party. 
Farley Hall President Kelly Fitzgerald agreed the SI charge is only a minor dcterent to party hop­ping, hut explained the resolution has not been in effect long enough t<> sec any definate results. 
All hall representatives contacted expressed support for the resolu­tion, and most made note of the im­proved quality and better atmosphere ofparties held since the resolution was enacted. 


Expires 11-23-83 
L------·-----------1 

.._._______._____ .-.••••.. -... -_ .. --... _______ ..... ··-·-l 

.... "-"'· ..___ ... "· "l.. • ..........._ ........... " -. -........................ ~ l •. 1 
..-.........................................,....,,.,. 
The Observer Monday, November 21, 1983 --page 4 
Cublltn refuses to leave until material returned 
30 Cubans arc hiding out in the hills or on Grenada's tiny out-islands. ST. GEORGE'S, Grenada -The 
Associated Press 

The Cubans on Grenada when the lone Cuban diplomat on Grenada 
invasion occurred were construc­says he's staying put until Cuba tion workers at the airport project recovers $2 million in equipment 
and soldiers who Diaz said advised ust:d to construct the airport the 
Prime Minister Maurice Bishop or Reagan administration contends was 
were "engineering and technical ex­becoming a Cuban and Soviet perts." military base. 
Bishop, a Marxist and staunch sup­"lt is only right," says Gaston Diaz, porter of Cuban President Fidel who remains in the Cuban Embassy Castro, was killed Oct. 19 after a in St. George's with an aide, Pablo military junta seized power in a Mora "I will not: leave until I get a power struggle in his ruling socialist positive respon~c." party. The invasion toppled the junta, and the occupying forces or­
"It's paradoxical and ironic that dered captured Cubans sent h.Jme.
the country that accused us ofbuild­ing the airport for military purposes After the invasion, Grenada's has now turned it into a military governor general, Sir Paul Scoon,base," Diaz said during an interview asked Cuba to reduce its diplomatic
\ at the embassy.
The Observer !lllom Bradley force to one person.
Blocked out 
He said Cuba spent more than S35 Diaz, 35, took charge of the em­
afternoon in the ACC. University President Father million on construction and equip­Sam Engalboom, Kerry' Zalud, and her sister Deirdre Theodore Hesburgh and Football Coach Gl'17'Jv Faust at­ment for Point Salines airport, about bassy after the evacuation of Ambas­enj(~y themselves at the Senior Block Par~y, held Friday tended the seniors-onlyparty. sadorJulian Rizo and helped oversee
a dozen miles south of St. Gebrge's, the return of the bodies of Cubansthe capital. 
killed during the invas.ion. The Charge d'Affaires wants the


Reagan record in Congress mixe~d 
United States and Grenada to return Diaz denied U.S. contentions that vehicles, he2vy equipment and mac­
Associated Press Reagan's starkest defeats were in Powers Act for the first time to the Port Salines airport was going to 
hinery the Cubans were using to
domestic social policy, where restrain a president's power to send be used by Soviet and Cuban build it.
W ASIIINGTON President liberal and many moderate mem-troops into action on his own, but in warplanes. Like Bishop, he insisted Reagan didn't get everything he hers ofCongress lined up against the doing so it gave Reagan permission Diaz also insist" on the return of a that the facility, with itts 9,000-foot­wanted from Congress this year, but president's conservative ideology. A to keep Marines in Lebanon for 18 Cubana Airlines plane parked at long runway, would allow jumbo 
he continued his three-year string of constitutional amendment to permit months. Pearls Airport, Grenada's only com­jets to land on Grenada and bring victories in holding down -if not prayers in public schools never even As the year began, Reagan faced mercial airstrip. much-needed tourism to the 133­cutting -ft·deral spending. got within range of passage, and the dire predictions that the D<emocrats, square-mile island, which bases its 
The dii;lomat 'tnd his aide say they
The lawmakers did vote to .spend Republican-controlled Senate whose House majority had been economy on nutmeg, cocoa and 
are the only Culbans left of 784 who
about SI I billion on domestic rejected Reagan's plan to provide reinforced by 26 new members bananas. 
were on Grenada when the Unitedprograms Reagan said he didn't private school tuition tax credits. An elected in 1982, could finally halt States and C1ribbcan forces invaded The airport "would have beenwant, and they cut a like amount administration plan to give poor the Reagan juggernaut that had the island Oct. 25. U.S. Army Gen. finished on time, in March of nextfrom the money he requested to families vouchers that would help dominated the 97th Congress. Plans John Farris has said he believes 12 to year," Diaz said. 
continue tht· nation's defense buil­them pay private-school tuition were laid to block the thi1rd year of dup. But wht·n measured against ad­never went anywhere either. the three-year, 25 percent income ministration expectations at the The Senate also voted down a tax cur: Reagan had won early on, start of the session, Reagan con­proposed amendment to ban abor-and substantial tax increases were Dear_ Stacey,sidered the results quite satisfactory. tions, but the House and Senate contemplated to cut into the huge 

We hope that your 19th is 
agn:ed to prohibit federally financed deficit deplored by membt:rs ofboth White Houst· spokesman Marlin health insurance programs from parties. the best •~ver. We love you. Fitzwaer, reviewing the final flurry paying for them. The president resolved to veto 
We are p1roud of you, and
of kgblation after Congress ad­Reagan boasted about passage of any tax increase and vowed he journed Friday night, said the ad­rcvtstons in Medicare that he would not permit a resumption of hope that you have one for ministration was generally pleased predicts will save 520 billion in the high spending levels of earlier 
us tonight. Have fun, and 
with tht· outcome. hospital payments during the next years. Administration concerns 
hope you feel O.K. in the 
"Tht· bt·st evidence: is we're not five years. But missing from the final were borne out by early defeats in vt·toing anything," Fitzwater said. measure were his proposals to tax both the House and Senate, which "We went in thinking there would private health insurance benefits as bolted from Reagan's budget re-be at least four or five (spending income and give Medicare quests and set their own guidelines bills) we couldn't accept." recipients the option ofbuying their calling for new taxes and only 
own insurance with federal vouc-modest spending cuts. 
Students-Campus Reps 
r----------------1
lhers. l':~~~t 

=============================== 



Thanksgiving Meal Hours 
Thanksgiving Day
NORTH HALL IIIAKFAST ------9:30 A.M. -11:00 A.M. SPECW. IUFFET DINNER---2:30 P.M.. 5:00 P.M.
Lust Meal, Wed. Lunch Nov. 23 Reopens, Sun. Dinner Nov. 27 Frt., Sat., Nov. 25, 26 
4:30 P.M.-6:30 P.M. 
CONT. IREAKFIIST 9:00 A.M.. 10:00 A.M. .UNCH 11:30 A.M.· 1:00 P.M. SOUTH HALL DINNER 5:00 P.M.. 6:00 P.M. 
Wed., Nov. 23-Dinner 4:30-6:30 P.M. 
Sun., Nov. 27 CONT••IAKFAST 9:00 A.M. -10:00 A.M. .UNCH >""'-'"'. 11:30 A.M.. 1:00 P.M.
A 
SUPPIR 4:30 P.M.· ..JO P.M. 
Part-Time-Evenings-Weekends 
SALES JOBS 
Earn extra dollars calling on people who have requested information on our products. We see mainly by appointment in a dignified and professional manner. Complete training offered. For details, call Dr. Thompson at 287-2926 
ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA 
Congress invoked the War
""'.;.••••••••••••••••G,~~il ' EVERYONE DOES IT! I
OF, ROMANCE" 
~"n~ ~ Now, Have A Place to Keep Them. t
CHEESE FONDUE 

~~:Pa.r!Dr
A BASKET OF FRESH BAKED BREADS 
A V,.._T'W Of PONDUl 
' Elegant Clc~h, Send $3.9!5 ea. '

8rt1
' with draw Olrd, 1 • er~. and your printed ' 

CHUNKS OF APPLE ... 
Historical Perspective "" name & address ' A POT OF MELTED CHEESE ... per and morE~. ~'""~"" for use as a label. '
255-~~~L~I t 
2
5

EVERY MON. & TUES. S 0 per•on ' UNIQUE ag . To: QUIBBLEOICKER t 
' P.O. Box 7651 

MICHIANA'S SLOW FOOD RESTAURANT t GIFT Pittsburgh, PA 15214 t 
li'I'EN I.E\ EL • M.\1-.; HRE\\ ER\ HLU<;. • 100 LEYI'EH 
L ____s~~ ~c~N~s~F~lt~~d_;_ ___ j 
8 
~========== 


Vieweoint 
Monday, November 21,1983-page 5 

Reflections on service in Arizona 
Holy Cross Associates is a post-graduate volunteer service program that is operated under the auspices o~ and run in affiliation with, the Holy Cross order religious. The HCA program attempts to integrate into social 
Jim Baglini 
Guest column 
service an added dimension often lacking in secular volunteer programs, that of spirituality. 
Community living and a simple lifestyle form an important part of the experience. Each HCA group is fortunate to have in its area a local Holy Cross religious community that helps provide the group with a sense of sup­port, assistance and guidance. 
The challenge that awaits a Holy Cross as­sociate is the challenge to grow in the knowledge of oneself and of others. It is the challenge to seek in one's life the realizaton of the Christian ideal within a culture full of violence and injustice. It is the challenge to join, in such a world, our ideas with action, in order to reconcile the rich with the poor, the. Church wth the world, and faith with reason. 
The call is a difficult one, for it is an ongoing struggle to make our Christian faith a real part ofour daily lives, and yet to be true witnesses to the message of Christ, it is something that we must strive to do. 
Awareness is a key to the struggle; until I came out to Arizona with the program I never really gave much thought to what life was like as a migrant farmworker or what it was like trying to support a family at a wage far below the poverty level. 
I had never seen transients or street people before, and now I am working with them every day at an emergency shelter in downtown Phoenix. I never knew what life was like for the poorest of the poor. 
The homeless people that I am working with at the shelter are each wounded in some way; the spiritual, physical and mental scars run deep. These people have been systemati­cally and catagorically oppressed throughout their lives by the extant social structure, and their souls are filled with anger and hate, with fear, and a deep, deep lonliness. They are the helpless, crying out for help, and getting no answers. 
Notre Dame and home seem so far away in the face of such experiential learning. I am being challenged each day to try to under­stand what all this means with respect to my faith and how I will live my life as a doctor, .ny intended career. 
It has been almost three months now that I have been out here, and the adjustment process has at times been full of very difficult educational experiences, however there have been many pleasant·-and enjoyable ex­periences also. 
We have the household chores-cleaning, cooking, shopping and repair and main­tenance -divided up with reasonable equity. After four years of revelling in the squalor of empty-beer-can-laiden floors in Dillon, I guess that it is part ofmy responsibility as a graduate to start picking up after myself. 
We have a house meeting once a week to discuss community business, to air out any problems we have been having, and to discuss any other topics that might affect the com­munity. Every Tuesday night we have Father Bill Dorwart over to the house for dinner and Mass. It is a good time for us to get together in a structured way so we might strengthen our bonds as a community and get to know each other better. 
We al5o usually have a discussion on a previously agreed upon subject. The topics generally are about social concerns or thoughts on the readings at Mass, or maybe just on how work has been going and things we have been dealing with. 
The experience of this year will change me in many ways. I will not be the same person I was before the year. I will have new perspectives and a new and more critical way of looidng at things. I will be tested and strengthened by experience, and with firm trust in God, I will be able to integrate them into my lifestyle and my profession. 


P.O.BoxQ 
I have some prime beach property in Beirut In all reality though, something must be turned out to be just nice guys" and '"non­you might be interested in. The decision has done. If not, the void which we call Notre great quarterbacks?" (By the way, check your
Campus alcohol 
already been made and no matter how many Dame will become an abyss. dictionary, I think you've just invented a new DearEditor: letters like this one are written, it will not be Timothy Schajbauser word. Let me be the first to congratulate you!) 
Can it be true? Is this really happening? changed. The pressure that Blair Kiel was exposed to First, there was Gerry Faust as head coach ofa Two, the social life here is already com­was tremendous for a student his age. I major (?)college football team: a little hard to parable to the social life of a Tibetian monas­wouldn't wish it on anyone. As fellow stu­

Kiel articles

accept at first, but after his sparkling record tery. Without alcohol, they might as well put dents, you above all should treat him with the 
who could deny the wisdom in that move. the closed signs out at ten o'clock. Students respect and dignity that he deserves. jour­
Then there was the "new" pre-registration will go off campus for a good time, and we all DearEditor: nalism carries heavy responsibilities; I believe 
system that will cut down on lines in january. I know the advantages of a downtown South The Epic of Blair Kiel ...a two-part series that your sports staff has fallen short of those 
would much rather stand in line and wait now Bend social life. recently printed by the The Obseroer, and responsibilities. 
while missing classes than wait in line in So what's to be done? Don't ask me, I'm only written by that aspiring sportswriter, l.ouis In your words Mr. Somogyi, "Kielleaves the January when there's nothing to do. a lowly student. Perhaps conferring with the Somogyi, will soon be turned into a "made for legacy which shows that the mark ofa winner 
And now this: THE DRY CAMPUS. I per­faculty will help, since they are to be asked television series" starring 0.). Simpson as Blair extends far beyond what the stadium sonally think it would be the best move the their opinion. Personally, I am in favor of Kiel and Victoria Principal as the beseiged scoreboard or stat sheet says." Fine words but University could make. Who needs a social life violent protest with riots and burnings. Coach Faust! And so it goes. perhaps if you had used them as your thesis anyway. I thought Paraguayan night at the Desperate situations call for desperate Hasn't The Obseroer printed enough heart­statement versus the last paragraph in a two dining halls was bad. measures. Let's start with the office of the as­less comments and shallow postmortems on part series, I would have granted your 
Let's face some facts. One, if you think the sistant to the executive vice-president of the Notre Dame football? Must we continue to put opinions slightly more respect. University is only considering the dry campus, University. up with headlines that speak of'·kgends that Garrett R. Frakes 
••• 01 ~lt. ' ('.HI "JI:JN 

Campus comments: If Notre Dame went dry, would you move off-campus? 
No, because the bars are always No, I wouldn't because the campus No, I would wait to see how strictly No. For one thing, I don't drink. And If campus went dry, the administra­open to people who are 21, and is the center of things at Notre it would be enforced. anyway, I came to college to learn, tion would probably compound people on campus would still have Dame. not to drink. the drinking issue, not eliminate it. parties anyway. But I don't think the My parents would object to my University should take the privilege living off-campus, not to mention of responsible drinking away from the fact that off-campus housing is us. limited. 
Susan de Carvalho JeffDivney Scott Harders Sylvia Ross Jeannette Wolfe 
English/Spanish Aerospace engineering Electrical Engineering AL pre-professional AL pre-professional 
Classof'84 Classof'86 Classof'86 Classof'86 Classof'87 


P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the t:ni· versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to aU membe_rs o~t~:~~!llmunity, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, tflrougnTetters, IS encouraged. 
Editorial Board DepartmentManagers 
Editor-in-Chief.......................... ....David Dziedzic Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Controller ...............................................Akx Szilvas News Editor....................... .........Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager .........................Jeanie Poole News Editor.................................... Mark Worscheh Circulation Manager ......................... Mark Miotto Saint Mary•'s Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski s:vstems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan Composition Manager.............Suzannt· La Croix Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor.......................................... Scott Bower 
Founded November 3, 1966 



Showcase 
Monday, November 21, 1983-page 6 

Miss Manners 
The proper letter after an 18-year visit 
by Judith Martin 
K
nowing what Miss Mannns thinks ofpeople who can spend a weekend in someone else·~ house and not write a letter there af­
terward, youl.·an imagine what she thinks ofthose who spend I 7 or 
I H years in the same house and then go off to college and never 
write. 

Although the offense is greater, the penalty is less because the stu­dent is going to be invited back. Parents can be as offended as anyone with a display of bad manners but they lack the recourse ofsaying, "You can tdl what kind ofpeople he must come from." 
Miss Manners is not suggesting mat a thank you note is needed for tht· simpk task ofchild-rearing. Nor is she suggesting that it is neces­sary to St'nd one's parents a running commemary ofeverything that happt·ns to a teen-ager away from home -they deserve better than that. 
But no d1ild ~hould bt: allowed to tkpart his nativt: city for school without an mukrstanding with his parents about how often they cx­pt"Ct bulktins. Mi~s Manners recommends that a sizable percentage of tht·se he in tht· form of ktters, rather than collect calls, not only h~.:cause of the expcnst· hut to give the parents a chance to see if the nlucation is taking. (It is not, howevt:r, up to tht·m to issue grades. Part·nts who rt·turn kllcrs with spdling mistakes circled do not deservt· 10 gt·t any.) 
Evt·ry once in a while, each child is expectnl to write a letter that contains no mention of money or services ht· would like to receive from home. And tht· ones that do must n~.:ver open with these re­qut·sts. 
It is not nect:ssary 10 trouble parents with the new eating habits and hours a child tries out on his first extended sojourn away from homt·. llowevn. if there arc natural consequences, the child is obligatt·d to notifY the parents before the college infirmary does. 
Miss Manners is sympathetic with the wish ofevery devoted son and daughtt·r 10 hdp parents live happily in a fool's paradise. Nt·vt·rthdcs~. unconccalablc trouble is best stated first by the stu­dent -with the opening of"Don't worry, but ..."that stops every parnll's heart -before the dean, their friends who have children in tht· samt· class, or the evening news tells them what the matter is. 
Surprisingly. there arc also students who neglect to inform their parents ofthe approach ofprizes and honors. Th:u is not only incon­sideratt·. but it sct·ms 10 contradict the very achicvt"ment involved. Nobody with any brains would neglect to report succt"SS where it is most appreciated. 
A stmknt is required to invite parents to all ceremonies or parents' days, and it is no good saying that tht· student has made the tkcision not to attend. Tht· choice is the parents'. A student Whir rt·ally wants to avoid this writes, ''I'll feel terrible ifyou don't stay with me. I'll arrange to borrow sleeping bags for you, and I hope the noist· won't hothn you." 
School holidays arc presumed to be ti>r the expressed purpose of visiting homt·. That doesn't mean that one always has to go home, of n>urst· -only that failure to do so must be properly and regretfully eXCU!'>l'tl. 
A modd kiter from a child who is not going home is: "I've been looking t<>rwanlto stTing you so much that I hate to have to wait un· til Christmas. But it does st-em silly to have you spend all that money fi>r juM timr days, when most of it would be used-up traveling, anyway. So I thought. since l'vt· bt-cn studying so much that I have rwglt-cted gelling any exncist·, I'd just do a little skiing near here, ami then gt·t hack to work. I certainly will miss having Thanksgiving dinner-which I would have missed, anyway, since Ican't gt"t away until Thur!->day-and I'll be thinking of you then." 
Dear Miss Manners -Pkasc advise on tht: propt:r way to pay for a 
lunch or show gratitudt· when one asks his boss to lunch. Super­
visors ht·rc usually pay for lunch no matter who invites. 
Gentle Reader-Heach ti>r the check saying, "No, no, thb is pure­
ly social -I juM thought it would he fun to have lunch with you. 
Tht· boss will he so startled aft_er that, that it doesn't matter who final­
ly ends up with the chn:k. 
Dear Miss Manners -I am 7 ft-ct tall. This is the source ofsome dif­
finrlty. as t·very·when: I go Iam accosted by imbeciles demanding to 
know how tall I am. 

Perti:ct strangers then name t'Vt:f)' near or distant relative or ac­
quaintance whom they consider tall: "I've got an uncle who is6 fi>ot 
2, and I thought be was ta:t' But you're really tall." 
Genth• Reader-The bd1avior ofpeopk who kd compelled to comment on olwiou~ physical characteristics is, as you say, imbe­cilic, and Miss Manners trusts that you scrupulously refrain from making such observations when you meet twins, redheads, very short pt·opk -and, indeed, anyont: at all. 
You may not he rudt· in response hut Miss Manners will allow you 
to say, "I rt·ally don't know -I haven't measurt"d myselffor some 
months." ifyou do so pleasantly. 
jutlitb Martin's "Miss Manners' Guide to Excrnciating(v Correct /Jehm,ior" (Atheneum) is now twalablefor eliquett emergency consuIta lion. 
Copyright 1983, United Feature Syndicate, Inc. 


Thanksgiving adventures 
---------------------------------·-----------­
b~~ Chris Fraser 
jE~atures columnist 
A
s I'm sure you all know, Thursday is Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving is known as a time for food, a time for football, and most especially, a time for family. However, due to logistical problems, many Notre Dame stu­dents are forced to spend this holiday at someplace other than home (or even Grandma's house)­St"niors like myself have long since adjusted to this inconve][lience. For many freshmen, on the other hand, this first Thanksgiving spent in foreign surroundings can be a traumatic occasion. 
On this topic I speak from ex­perience. I remember my first Thanksgiving away from home not because it proved to be at particular­ly depressing or momt"ntous happening but because it tumt"d in­to somt"thing ofa wacky advt"nture. Allow mt" to explain. 
Sinct" none of us would bt" able to make it home, I and three of my friends, jot", John and Ka1rl, con­sidered ourselves fortunate because we would bt" able to escape the clutches ofSouth Bend ti:>r a few days. That's becauseJoe's aunt in In­dianapolis wa~ kind enough to invite us all down to share their turkey and trimmings. Surely, Wt" needed a few last days ofrelaxation before that dreadful first set offinals about which we were all being warnt"d. 
All we needed, then, wao; a mode oftransportation to get us down to Indy. Four ofus, we figured, would never be able to get a rid1r together so we came up with the idea ofren­ting a car. We were, after all, I 8 year old adults who could travd around the country in adult ways. Unfor­tunately, that line of reasoning did not sit well with the major rental car companies all ofwhom wanted 2 I yt"a.r olds with major credit cards. But just as Wt" began to ponder dining hall turkey, we stumbled upon a company that would rent us a car. Pacific Rent-a-Car w~k'i its name and Wt" found it through an ad in The Observer. It seemed a little strange that they had a long distalllce phone number, but they said to call collt"ct. So Wt" did. Joe wao; given the job to make the call. 
"We'd like to rent a car for Wed­nesday through Friday,"Joe said in his deepest, most mature voice. 
"Ask ifwe need a credit card," said L 
"Ask ifwe have to be 2I," joined in KarL SoJoe asked ar.d much to our surprise, we needed neither. All we did need was 5 I 8 a day plus a hundred dollardeposit for which Wt" could write a •Check. Certainly, that was no problem. As freshman we loved to writt" checks. 
"Wht"rt" caJll we pick up the car?" 
askedJoe. 
"The airport," they told him. We 
were all st"t and I must admit we 
Wt"rc quite t"Xcited about this, out 
first college roadtrip. 
When Wednesday rolled around, we scrounged up a ride to the air­port and offwt" wt"nt. We pulled up to Michiana !tegional and sentJoe in to get the car. Out ht" came in five minutes but with no kt"ys. 
"No one knows whert" Pacific 
Rent-a-Car is," ht" said." 
"It's got to be around here some­
where," l rc.l.~oned. 
"Maybe it's just not in the tt"r­
minal," suggested john. 
"Wait, I've still got the ad hert"," said Karl,"Give'em a call." So we thrt"wJoe the ad and a dime. Can't hl" do anything right we thought. An­other five minutes and back came 
Joe. 
"They said it was right next to Dollar Rent-a-Car and that cop said Dollar Rent-a-Car is down in those buildings over there. So we drove down a few hundred yards to a small cluster ofstructures surrounded by a bunch ofprivate planes. There, we found Dollar Rent-a-Car. 
"It must be in thert", go check it 
outJoe," one ofus ordert"d.Joc 
frowned but went. He was stuck 
with the legwork bt"cause he had 
made the rest"rvations. This time, he 
emerged in but a minute, again with 
no keys. 
"They've never even heard of 
Pacific Rent-a-Car," he moaned. We 
wt"re beginning to get a bit nervous 
but Wt" were g.-own college students 
and we were not about to panic ­
just yet. 
"Call them up again," suggested 

Karl. Having lost some confidence in Joe, we all gathered around tht" phone and watched him makt" the collect calL He proceedt"d to iden­tify himself in a less than pleasant tone and he explained our wandt"r­
ings through the airport. I could jus 
imagine us all a~ dupes in a lkrtz 
commt"rcial wildly running around 

while 0.). Simpson cautioned,"Dol"s 
this happen to you when you rent a 
car?" Anyway, Wt" ht:ardJoe getting 
the Sanlc directions from thest" 
Pacific clowns and we were 
thoroughly confust"d. 
"Wait," saidJohn, "maybe we're at tht" wrong airpt>rt." Obviously, none ofus were familiar with the South Bend area 
"What airpt>rt are you at anyway?" inquired Joe who was beginning to lose his patknce. W{· wt"re all hunched around the phone and heard the response. 
"LAX." they said. Ah, we were at 
the wrong airport but we remained 
unenlightened. 
"LA.X., hmmm ...well, we're at 
Michiana Regional, where is LAX.?" 
questionedJoe. Finally, this whole 
affair would be resolved. 
"L.A.X.!" they cried, "you know, 
L.A. as in Los Angeles, Los Angeles In­tt"rnational Airport!" 
"Oh ...urn, I'd like to cancel that reservation," Joe muttered. 
We were all in something ofa state ofshock but soon Wt" were able to sort out the pieces and put tht" puzzle together. Clearly, this t"X­plained the long distanct" phone call and I knew I'd recognizt"d that 2 I 3 art"a code from somewhere. Why would tht"y advertise in The Ob­server? Wdl, because the USC-Notre Dame game was to he played out tht"re ofcourse. We double-checked the ad and it said nothing specifically about picking the car· up in Los An­geles. I suppose they thought it wa~ pretty obvious what with Pacific Rent-a-car and that 2 I 3 area code. But remember, we were only fresh­
men. 
As an epilogue, I should note that we were resourceful enough to get a last minute car through Ug~y DucklingRent-a-Car. Wearrivedin Indianapolis, weary and shell­shocked, aboutfive hours late. The turkey, by the way, was delicious. 
Marclt in protest of the Bontb 
b~l Kathy Lawyer 
guestfeatures writer 
I also went to the march to protest te actions ofthe lJ.S. in Grt"nada and El Salvador. I agree with the Catholic Bishops when they state that, "the human person is the clearest reflec­tion ofGod's presence in the world." This statement refers to every per­son-indudingthe ones that live in Cuba, Grenada, Russila, El Salvador and Nicaragua. I do not believe in condoning the killing ofGod's people. Moreover, our killings of 
persons in Grenada, E1 Salvador and other countries are a breeding ground for nudear suicide. 
Pe.haps it was the avoidance of violence between ouf group and a protesting rally ofVict Nam veterans wht"n members ofour march placed themselves betwt"en the opposing groups and held hands in a non­violent way. Perhaps it wa~ the joking between some: polict" and protestors about polict" overtime pay. Regardless ofthe rt"ason, while the impact ofthis first-of-its-kind protest on public opinion cannot yet be assessed, its impact on in­dividuals wa~ evidt"nlt. 
D
riving along the Ohio Tumpikt" at 4 am., listening to The Clash, it wao; as though we were returning to Notre Dame from mid­semt"ster break. However, Mike Brennan,John Murphy, Bridget Sul­livan and myselfwere noll coming back from break, we were rt"tuming from the Nov. 12 march in Wa'ihing­ton D.C The purpt>St" ofthe march was primarily to prott"St the nuclear arms buildup and the intervention of the U.S. in Grenada and EI Salvador. 
Why did I drive 24 hours in one weekend to walk all day \vith '50,000 other people? Iwent for the purpt>se ofprotesting the existence of nuclear Wt"apons. I agrn: with tht" Catholic Bishops' recent pastoral letter which statt"s that, "nuclear war threatens the existence ofour planet." One can readily ~;ee the Catholic Bishops are justified in this view. 
Tht" Pershing II missiks that are soon to be placed in West Germany 
(the 1962 Cuban missik crisis in rt"Vt"rse) can reach the Soviet Union within six minutes after deploy­ment. It takes longer than six minutes to discover computer launching errors. There were I 5'5 such errors·in 1982. The Russians currt"ntly thrt"att"n to put their missiks on a launch-on warning sys­tem. This would then leave our fate, in the event of an error, to Russian computers. It has been statt"d that the Russian computt"rs arc not con­sistently reliable. 
For myself, the existence of nuclear weapons is sinful. The Tri­dent submarine can crt"att" an in­ft"rno many times more destructive than the OVt"ns ofAuschwitz. Should a nudear war begin, "I do not want to agonize, "it is now too late." Jesus said, ."Blessed are the peacemakers," not the peact"/overs. Soldiers have risked much in war. What are we willing to risk for peace? 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­Monday, November 21, 1983 -page 7
Showcase 
The age of the dinosaurs returns at the Moreau Galleries 
by Margaret McCabe 
features staff writer 
W
ho says dinosaurs are extinct? Obviously, they haven't been to Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's lately to see how Keevie McCarthy has managed to bring back a little bit of The Mesozoic Era 
According to Keevie, a senior art major, she woke up one February morning and, "wanted to do some­thing really big." Well, six months, 50 yards ofchicken wire, and 60 pounds offlour later, big is exactly what Keevie had. "Bruno," named by those around who watched him come to life, is a 1 5 foot long and seven foot tall papier-mache 
dinosaur. 
Some ofyou may have seen Bruno displayed in the lobby ofO'Laughlin Auditorium during the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre's production of"The Skin ofOur Teeth." 
Besides her hopes ofcreating something big, Keevie wanted her work ofart to "generate enthusiasm in people and spark interests and ideas." Bruno clearly demonstrates Keevie's determination to do just thaL The dinosaur was not made as an art class project, but was an inde­pendent undertaking. Thus, besides consuming a great deal ofher spare time, Bruno consumed ap­proximately $1 00 ofKeevie's spare money. 

This sum covered the costofwire, flour, lacquer sanding sealer, and a gold dust powder that gives Bruno his color. The paper that was used is the brown type found on rolls in public bathrooms. This was the only material used that didn't require funds as it was graciously supplied by the Ladies' room at Moreau. 
Keevie did not refer to books or pictures in making Bruno, only her imagination. She started her project in a dark, damp, quiet crawl space in Moreau. According to Keevie, "The atmosphere was conducive to creat­ing a creature from the past." 
In favorable weather, Keevie worked on Bruno outside and soon discovered that there may be a market for papier-mache dinosaurs. One passer-by wanted to put Bruno on top ofhis house for a graduation party. Another wanted to mount the dinosaur on top ofhis car. (It could be fun at tailgaters.) 
With many new projects under way now and graduate school in her future, Keevie is looking for a home for Bruno. There is a possibility he will be donated to a local park. In this case, Keevie would add a coat of plastic sealer to make Bruno weather resistant. Ifnot, Keevie may sell herdinosaur, as is, to anyone out there who is looking for a little, or rather, a big conversation piece for his or her dorm room. 




'Made in Italy' 
shownatSMC 
Special to The Observer 
'T"'he works ofGiuseppe Gattuso 
.l l..omonte, professor ofprintmak­ing at the Academy ofFine Arts in Florence, Italy, and the director of the Santa Reparata Graphic Arts Cen­ter in Florence, are on display in the Hammes Gallery at Saint Mary's Col­lege from now until Dec. I 5. 
Tht· exhibit, entitled "Giuseppe Gattuso Lomonte: Made in Italy," will include etchings and lit­hographs and some studies, drawings and photographs ofhis present work in sculpture. 
A native ofToretta in Sicily, Gat­tuso Lomonte has exhibited steadily throughout Italy, Europe and the United States since 1960. His im­agery deals with primeval clements ofchildho<:.d myths and is ap­proached with the same childlike simplicity. 
Agraduate ofthe Academy ofFine Arts in Florence, Gattuso Lomonte received a prize from the West Ger­man government at the III Biennial InternationalofGraphic Art at Palaz­zo Strozzi in Florence and was awarded first prize for the best sculpture at the XI Rassegna Arti Visive at Campi Bixenzio. 
The Saint Mary's galleries are open from 9:30a.m. to noon and I to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The galleries are closed on Saturday, but are open from I to 3 p.m. on Sunday. There is no admission charge. 
Since 1970, Gattuso Lomonte has concentrated on sculpture. He has worked with clay, plaster, wood and metal. He often ha~ directly painted, drawn orscratched on the sculpture to conform to his imagery. His ap­proach in printmaking has the same directness. 

A gift of history 
Professor A.L. Gabriel, director emeritus of the University's Medieval Institilte, holds the first of10 incunabula he is donating to the Notre Dame Memorial Library. Incunabula are books published before /500, and Gabriel's initial gift volume contains the Sunday sermons on the Gospels preached by Dinkesbuhl, a teacher at the University of Vienna, published in /496 in Strassburg, France. A collector ofrare books, Gabriel has been instrumental in building up Library's holdings in medieval studies. 
~~---___------­
Sports B,riefs
! 
I I 
I 
The ND Football Banquetwill be held today. at 
the ACC. The night begins with cocktails at 5:30p.m. with dinner following at 7 p.m. Former Irish all-American running back Creighton Miller will be the toa~tmaster for the night. The featured guests and speakers will be all six of Notre Dame's Heisman Trophy winners. Ticket information is available by contacting Hugh Reynolds at either 232·3992 or 289-4303.-The Observer 
Sign-ups for the Insilco Squashtournament 
can be obtained at the ACC squash courts or by calling Sean at 277· 
1405. The Dec. 3-4 tournament features 'B', 'C', and 'D' divisions. It is 
open to studentsant/ faculty. Winners ofthis tournament advance to 
the regionals held in t Chicago in January. -The Observer 
A one-on-one basketball tournament 
is being sponsored by tht· NVA Office. The tournament, which will be played on Friday, Dec. 2, will be divided into three divisions­one for women, one for men under six feet tall, and one for men more than six feet tall. It will be singlt:-elimination with the early rounds being played to five. The tourney is open to all under­graduate and graduate students, except college basketball letter winners. Trophies will bt· awarded to the winners in each division and T-shirts will be given to the final four. There is a S 1 fee to register and the field is limited to 32 entries per division. You must sign up in the NVA office by November 23.-The Observer 
Windsurfing Notre Dame will have its la<;t 
meeting before break at 7 p.m. on today, in LaFortune. Dring any unsold shirts and receipts. -The Observer 
Men's interhall basketball will have a meeting of team captains tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. at the ACC Football Auditorium. -The Obsen,er 
Any interhall men's football player who didn't return his equipment at the scheduled time should return it tomorrow between 6:00-7:30 p.m. Enter gate 9 of the stadium. ­The Observer 
Dillon hall won its 2tst consecutive game and their third straight intcrhall championship with a 21-6 victory over Stan­ford hall yesterday. A game story by Tom Antonini will be in tomor­row's paper. -The Observer forget is the last 13 minutes of the game in which it saw its 12-point lead quickly disappear as the defense, which had been very ef­fective for three quarters, started to collapse. The key play was a dropped interception by Chris Brown that fell into the hands offal­con wide receiver Mike Kirby. 
Following the touchdown and a missed extra point by Air Force kick­er Sean Pavlich, Irish kick returner Alonzo Jefferson returned the kick­off 91 yards for the score. However, the exciting run was called back be­cause ofa clipping penalty. 
The Falcons began what proved to be the winning drive with 6:52 left on the clock and the end.zone 74 yards away. On the second play of the drive, Brown took the handoff, went up the middle, cut to the left sideline, broke a tackle, caused one cornerback to slip, and pick•~d up 42 ofhis 148 yards. 
The run got Air Force to the Notre 
Dame 34-yard line. From there, the 
Falcons hulled the ball up the 
middle of a suddenly porous Irish 
defensive line. Finally, John 
Kershner broke a tackle and fell into 
the endzone for a one-yard touch· 
down with 1:35left. 
Kiel, who deserved a better en­ding than he received, promptly led the Irish downfield. Starting from the 29, Kiel hit Pinkett with two passes to get the Irish into Falcon territory. Two runs by Chris Smith and another pass to Pinkett set up Johnston's field goal try. 
"I felt like I hit it solid," said Johnston. "I still had my head down when I heard it hit. I didn't see the line break down but Coach told me that somebody just blew an assign­
ment." 
"We felt their kicker was a low 
kicker and it was a slick fi-eld that 
would also cause a kick to go lower," 
,, . 
NOTICES 
TYPING 277-8534 after 5.30 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -PLEASE CALL PAUL McGINN AT 277-4651 OR 239­5313. 
HAIRCUTSII GUYS $4 GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT 288 3501 
Dtd you know that Stacey Snyder. who turned the btg 19 today, sttll tnes tc beat up her brothers? II you cannot belt eve that she has tndeed turned 19 today. you should gtve her a call at 284-4106 in order to confirm the valtdtty of thts tact. 
Experienced tyJ)Ist will do typtng. Very reasonable rates. Call287-5162. 
HALF PRICE! 50 off! $2 50 off! 5&o offt Coupons in the yellow pages of your Campus Telephone Directory! 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: HAND KNIT SWEATER ON PATH NEAR MUSIC BLDG. ON TUES. DAV, 1111. CALL277·3443. 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR 
I lost my Hewlen-Packard calculator tn the Engtneering Computer Room on Wed· nesday. Nov. 9. n has btg tndtals of OS in the nght corner.lllound, call Davtd at 277· 1326. Reward offered. No questiOns. 
IOST:'WALTHAM GOLD WATCH. Great· ly appreciated il returned. Please call Jennifer Payne at 3570. 
LOST: Whoever accidentally removed my shoe tram Haggar Center (SMC) please contact me. No ?'s. 284-4285. 
LOST: II anybody pk:klld up a Croaa gold pen In SMC parking lot, pleue contact me. II haa GREAT oentlmentat value. 284-4275. O.K. Katie? 

LOST Setko watch. stlver wtth gold bands. grey lace REWARD. Call Kevin at 3401 Thanks. 
LOST SET OF KEYS, FRIDAY, NOV 11. SOMEWHERE BETWEEN A GRACE PARTY AND CARROLL HALL. ONE OF THE KEYS WAS MARKED WITH 425 N ON IT IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 284-4230 OR MARC AT 6741 IT IS VERY IMPORTANT THAT THESE ARE RETURNED 
LOST. NAVY BLUE LIGHTWEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET. TO THE BEAUTIFUL GIRL WHO CALLED AND LEFT THE MESSAGE THAT SHE HAD FOUND IT. PLEASE CALL JOHN AGAIN AT8810. 
LOST: brown umbrella on 11/15 inCus­htng 1st floor ladtes room. II found. please call Meghan 283-7060. 
LOST HARD COVERED BLACK BOOK IN AM 120 O'SHEA LAST WED. BOOK NAME MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. IF FOUND CALL 8086 
REWARD!! LOST A HP-41CV CAL· CULATOR WITH MATH PAC AND USER CARD!! PLEASE RETURNII PAT 277­6464 
LOST: To you who received the suprise gift of a checkbool< and Casio calculator in your backpack at the North Dining Hall; please return them to Dave Wilson al 229 Pangborn or call8388. My mistake.. !II! 
LOST: A light blue/light yellow reversible Jacket sometime before Fall Break. If found. please return to Dave at 229 Pangborn Hall or call 8388. Reward it necessary. 
My name Goober. I LOST. I Cryl Help. JOEY. Help I! A-GOO 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSE, CLOSE TO N.D. GOOD AREA 277-3604. 
GARAGE 2 BLOCKS FROM N 0 277­3604 
WANTED 

NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -CAN LEAVE ANYTIME -CALL PAUL McGINN AT 239-5313 OR 277-4851. 
HELP WANTED-BRUNO'S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER. CALL 277-4519 OP 288-3320. 
I desperately need riders to Connecticut or Westchester County lor Thanksgiving break. Will leave Tues. or Wed. Call Man­3300. 
Desperately need ride to Cincinnati lor Thanksgiving Break. Will share any ex­penses. Call Mike 8989 
Need a nde lor 2 to Central Iowa on 1·80 will leave lue. noon Kim 284-5506 
NEED RIDE to MIAMI, FL. lor Xmas break & back. Leave 12/21.AZMAT 6764 
·······························. 

Need riders to middle Tennessee lor Thanksgiving break. Please call Sandra at 284-5025. 
Need Ride to ATLANTA AREA lor Turkey Day. Leave anytime after noon 11/22. Return 11/27. Call Mary x2733. 
NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO FOR THANKSGIVING-CALL ROB 1777 
Rtders needed to Pittsburgh leaving Wed. 22 at 3:30. Call Tom at3540. 
NEED RIDE TO MADISON. WIS FOR THANKSGIVING WILL SHARE USUAL CALL MARK 8906 
NEED RIDE TO PHILA AREA FOR TY · WILL FAY CALL BETIY 284-5392-DAY 272-6258-EVE 
NEED A RIDE TO DAYTON FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK. CALL STEVE AT 8105. 

FOR SALE A DELCO CAR STEREC CALL 283-8046 BEST OFFER 
FOR SALE:1974 VW Bug great mechant­oally, some rust. Bnght yellow $800/best >ffer. Call before Bam 277-1454. 
FOR SALE · a three month old Signal­
man Mark VII modem. Thts is a 300 baud 
direct connect modem with: 
Auto answer capabilities 
Auto dial capabilities 
Audtble signals, not led's. so you can tuck it out of sigtht. 
Normally this modem sells lor more than $150. but lor this one time offer, I'll take the best oiler bener than $100. 
Call Nick at l!83-t426 
I or Sale ND·IU Basketball Tix Court level call Bryan (812)337-8786 
I PER'SONALS I 
BRUNO'S PI.ZZA NEEDS A DRIVER CALL 277-4519 OR 288-3320. 
LOST: HI'15C CALCULATOR 
LDst in engineoring computer room. Call David at 277·1326. No questions asked. Reward offered 
For a gift that is unique. send a Bellygram to your shetk. Phone 272-1 858 or 291· 8215. 
Over the river and through the woods, to Grandmother' a house we go, in Youngstown, Ohio. We need a sleigh (at least two rides) to get there, though. We'll supply hay and oats ($$) generously. Leaving Wedn·•sday at noon. Please call Mary or Sarah at 1311. 
Do you>INant to eat your Thanksgiving turkey in Younstown. Ohio or there­abouts? And l1ave you no way to get there? II so, and if you would like a ride. callt3tt 
Monday, November 21, 1983-page 8 
• • Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
explained Hatfield. "We told our guys not to come in low like they usually do, but ~tand up and stay high." 
The strategy worked as lineman Chris Funk, who had already blocked a 50-yard Johnston attempt, got his left hand up and deflected the kick. 
"We showed what could be ac­
complished when the players 
believe in each other and the ad­
ministration and God," said Hatfield. 
"They pulled together. It was a 
tremendous game, and I couldn't be 
prouder ofour team. 
"It shows its fun to play the game offootball and it shows that anything can be accomplished in life. The team is bigger than the individual." 
It is good to sec that somebody is having fun right now, because the Irish sure are not. Maybe the Liberty Bowl could changt: all that. 
Saturday'a Game 
A1r Force 0 10 0 13 -.z: Notre Dame 0 7 9 6 -2:i Scoring 
AF-Pavlich 25 FG 
AF-Kershner 2 run (Pavltch kick) 
NO -Ptnken 7 run (Johnston kick) 
NO-Johnston 37 FG 
NO-Jackson 9 pass from Ktel (kick blocked) 
NO-Howard 67 pass from Kiel (pass I at led) 
AF-Ktrby 48 pass from Louthan (ktck latled) 
AF-Kershner 1 run (Pavlich ktck) 
AF N[ First downs 22 Rushtng anempts 60 ; Net Yards Rushing 283 23 Net Yards Passtng 124 28f Passes comp-anempted 7-12 17-27 Had intercepted 0 l 
Total Net Yards 407 521 Fumbles-lost 1·1 1-C Penalties-yards 6-43 9-8E Punts-average 5-43.8 3-42. 
Individual Leaders 
RUSHING-Atr Force: Brown 16·148. Kershne 21·77: Louthan 19-39: Sunquist 3-15: Jones 1-4 Notre Dame. Ptnken 27-197: Smtth 6-33; Brooks 1-4 Kiel2··1: 
PASSING -Atr Force: Louthan 6·11·0, 119; Zol ntnger 1-1·0. 5: Notre Dame: Kiel 16-22·1, 285 Beuerletn t-5-1. 3: 
RECEIVING-Air Force: Kirby 4-100: Rose 1-10 Brown 1·9: Cameron 1-5: Notre Dame: Ptnkett 5-93 Jackson 5·58: Bavaro 3·28: Howard 2·90: Smith 2 19: 
Anendance-59.075 
McCandless victorious in flag football final 
ByJEAN CRUTCHER 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's intramural flag football season came to a close yes­terday afternoon with McCandless defeating Off-cantpus 21-6. Earlier this season when the two teams met, McCandless won by a much closer score of6-0. 
On a cold and windy afternoon when passing wa~ near impossible, running plays became the key to vic­tory. 
· Sophomore Jenny McCauley scored the first of her three touch­downs for McCandless early in the first half. With a successful attempt at the extra point, McCandless led 7 · 0. 
Second half action saw McCauley score her second touchdown on a long rardage running play. McCand­less converted the extra point and 
led 14-0. 
Off-campus finally got on the board in the second half when senior Mary Schneeman carried the ball into the endzone for the touch­down. After the extra point failed, off-campus trailed 6-14. 
The final touchdown of the after­noon came as McCauley scored for the third and final time on a short yardage play with less than one minute remaining in the game. On a pitch out McCauley successfully scored the extra point and the cham­pionship for 1983 went to McC~nd­less. 
Final standings for the season have McCandless on top with an 8-1 record, OffCampus in second with a 5 and 4 record followed by Holy Cross ( 4-4 ), and Regina and LeMans tied at the bottom with 2 and 6 records. 
The Obseroer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsen>er Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor ofHaggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 
p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for nelCt day clas­sifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per seven characters per day. 


I'm desperate' I need a ride home lor turkey dinner! Please g1ve me a ride to St. Louis. Can leave Tues. or Wed Will pay usual. Call Maureen at 1311. Please call!!! 
You should all be aware that Stacey Snyder of Regina South Hall at Saint Mary's today turned 19, and legal In some states. You should call her Ill 284-41 06 to arrange a time to give her a big birthday smooch. 
Stacey Snyder tS t 9 today! 
Can rt be? Yes .... Stacey Snyder is 19 today. 
B.P.IS I~ACKI 
I AM A VERY ATTRACTIVE GIRL WHO NEEDS A RIDE TO EASTERN PENN. FOR BREAK. CALL JULIE AT 272·1723. 
LOOK OUT, WORLD II! RICK MCBRIEN 
TURNS ~IFTEENIII 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, RICKI WE'LL BE 
COMING HOME SOON FOR TURKEY 
BREAK... AND THIS TIME WE'LL DO IT 
FASTER!tl WE LOVE YOU! VICKI AND 
DIANNE 
Jim Landsman Happy 21st Love. M. 
Thanksg•ving is lor turkeys. 
MARK RAMIREZ IS NOT A MAN!!!II 
REGINA, This is your Birthday present · HAPPY BIRTHDAY. Love. Mom. Dad, Julie. Momca 
NEY and MCH Thanks lor puntng up with 
ham and cheese" in he mtddle of the 
night. and Mt. St. Helen's at 5:30 in the 
morning. Thanks. also, or helptng me get 
through a week wrthout a puffin •• I mean. 
a puff. (Smoking s against everything 
else....) I appreciate it. Lots.-K. 
Mark Naoy 143 
SPUD (ALIAS RUSTY) BETTER KNOWN AS JULES BUDULES: HOPE YOU HAD A VERY HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! LOVE.MIMI 
Yo. Mamasan-HAPPY GOB· BLINGILove,Roomte 
MONSIEUR LE DIRECTEUR.YOU LOOK LIKE YOU NEED A GOOD BACK­RUB. HANG IN THERE BABY·LA FEMME AVEC TON ECHARP 
JUNIORS!! 
JUNIORS!! 
LOTTERY FOR ROOMS IN THE MOR­
RIS INN FOR FEB 17·19(JUNIOR 
PARENTS WEEKEND) WILL BE HELD 
ON NOVEMBER 30TH AT 7:30 IN THE 
LAFORTUNE RATHSKELLER 34 
ROOMS WILL 8E LOTTERIED 
0-C Students There wtll be an 0-C Chnstmas dinner on Thwsday Dec 1. It will be a uuftet dinner with a speaker The cost wtll be $5.00 per person. Tickets wtll be available in the LaFortune beginmng Monday after Thansgitvtng. 
..and NOW, from ANGERS. FRANCE lor MONSIEUR STEPHEN L. PFEIFER. Yes, rt's really me! Just wanted to say Happy Happy Birthda yll And I hopa you have a wonderful dayl Je t'aime tres tres tort! Yours, Katy P.S. Where's that awesome smile?--Beautyl 
PATIY WARTH-THAT GORGEOUS HUNK CAME BY AGAIN...! HAD TO TELL HIM THAT SORT OF THING IS AGAINST YOUR MORAL STAN· DARDS... PLUS I KNOW HOW MUCH STUDYING YOU HAVE TO DO THANK ME LATER 
T.P.R.-Inthemud SCUM QUEEN! I really wtll miss you. JIB· Jotn Tom in the mud I 
PR1 MED FOR SUCCESS PR1 MED FOR SUCCESS PR1 MED FOR SUCCESS 
Yes, you can use the PAt ME to solve Dltl Eq's!!! 
Far beyond these castle walls, Where I thought I heard Tiresias say Ufe Is never what it seems, And every man must meet his destiny. 
-Styx 

,..-------------------------------------------------­
' 
('_.,__,. .... 

The Observer Monday, November 21, 1983 -page 9 
NFL standings 
NATDNALR:l01BA1..L I...EAGl..: NATDNALCXlNF6lENCE 

East  
w L  TPct.  PF  
Dallas  10  2  0 .833  382  
Washngtm St.Louis  10 5  2 6  0 .833 1 458  414 282  
Philadelphia  4  8  0 .333  172  
New York Gt<rns  3  8  1 .292  215  
Central  
MinllfOOta  7  5  0 .583  365  
Green Bay  6  6  0 .500  324  
Dellort  6  6  0 .500  257  
Ch!Ca!P  5  7  0 .417  228  
Tarpal3ay  1 11  0  .83  158  
West  
San Francisco  7  5  0 .583  329  
LARans  6  5  0 .545  242  

AMERICANCCN'ERENCE 
East 
w L T Pet. 

PA Miant 8 4 0 .007 200 Buffalo 7 5 0 .583 255 Balhrore 6 6 0 .500 356 New Engl<rd 6 6 0 .500 :n> NewYorkJets 4 7 0 .364 262 Central 
Pittsburgh 9 3 0 .750 285 Clevel<rd 7 5 0 .583 332 Cincinnati 5 7 0 .417 244 Houston 1 11 0 .83 
2:33 West 286 LA Raders 9 3 0 .750 
Denver 7 5 0 .583 2:32 Seattle 6 6 0 .500 256 Kansas City 5 7 0 .417 
New0rlea1s Atlanta  6 5  5 6  0 .545 :m 240 0 .455 234 :m  SanDiegl  4  8  0 .333  
Yesterday's Results  
Miant37. Buffalo 0  
Clevel<n::t 30. New Engl<rd 0  
Ch(:ag)27. TarpaBayO  
NY Gmts 2:3. Phila:lelphia 0  
LA Raders 27. Buffalo 24  
Mmesota 17. Pit1s00rgh 14  
Detlort 2:3. Green Bay 20  
St. L.ouis44. SanDiegl14  
Cincmati38. Houston 10  
W<Blrgton 42. LA Rans 20  
Atmta 28. San Frarcisoo 24  
Dallas 41 .Kansas Crty 21  
Denver 38, Seattle 27  
Tonl!#lt'SGimes  
N.Y. .letsatNewOr1e<rn ·  

"'-''" IA11E. Ml'\.r 1WJ<f"\ 
C()itvHIJNIICAIJII()N ~__.,__(;llriEAIJii(fc 
'"Mt()~I[)A\.'/ lfiiiL~\ S~ll?lll~~ 
a 
New York, New York (t977) usii.=<:hartoff·Winkler Productions Directed by Martin Scorsese. Color, ~ 63 mtn -._-. Scorsese (Last Waltz. Raging Bull) make_s lull use of sound-stage tech· ~ n~ues to creAte an ongtnal and tmagtnahve tribute to the Hollywood communteAIIOn musteals of the Forttes. Robert DeNtro and Ltza Mtnnell• contribute 
0. I H f A I R f outstanding per1ormances as a saxophone player and a s.nger as the story follows thetr tumultuous relationship through several years
IJnMR51TY Of I"IOIRf DA1Tlf 
PF PA 262 181 228 247 196 272 
2:37 2:32 
225 226 
241 198 252 241 
278 225 203 356 
319 268 
:m 22:3 
301 285 243 264 262 345 

Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum 1\dmissiQ~J..., 
..______.lr1() ·~ II tl3 ti lr--$.~·-0 -0 -~ 
SPECIAL RATES AVAILABLE FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK 
Wednesday noon to Thursday noon 
..-·· See us for all ofyour car related needs. 
Four Day minimum rental 

,~ 
8 CAMPUS CLEANERS 
i 
*Drop off laundry *Professional Dry Cleaning *Alterations *Shoe Repair *Suede and leather cleaning 
-REASONABLE RATES· 
441 E. Howard(off Notre Dame Ave.) 233-5227 M·F 9 to 5, except Thurs. 9 to 4 
·conege football roundup 
UCLA-Illinois in Rose Bowl 

Associated Press 
For the second straight year, the University of Washington Huskies have come away with the best con· solation prize in sports. 
Hoping to avenge a 1982 loss to 
Washington State that knocked 
them out of the Rose Bowl and into 
the Aloha Bowl, the Huskies found 
that lightning does indeed strike 
twice. Saturday's 17-6 loss to Wash· 
ington State, coupled with UCLA's 
27-17 victory over Southern Califor· 
nia, rerouted the 15th-ranked 
Huskies out of the Rose Bowl and 
onto the beach at W aikiki for their 
second straight appearance in the 
Aloha Bowl, this time against Penn 
State. 
But there was jubilation in Los An.. geles, where UCLA, which recovered nicely from an 0·3·1 start, defeated Southern Cal and made it to the Rose Bowl for the second straight year, a first 
Ironically, the Rose Bowl is UCLA's home field. Fifth-ranked Miami also will be performing before the home folks on jan. 2. The Hurricanes, who completed a 10·1 regular season a week ago, accepted a bid to meet No. I Nebraska in the Orange Bowl. 
The bowl bids were all an· nounced Saturday with only one recalcitrant from the reported pairings ofa week ago. Notre Dame, which wound up a 6-5 campaign by losing to Air Force 23..22, had second thoughts about its Liberty Bowl commitment to meet No. 18 Boston College. 
The rest of the bowl lineup looks like this: Cotton -no. 2 Texas vs. No. 7 Georgia Sugar -no. 3 Auburn vs. No. 8 Michigan. Rose -no. 4 n.. linois vs. UCLA. Sun -no. 6 South· ern Methodist vs. No. 16 Alabama Holiday -no. 9 Brigham Young vs. No. 19 Missouri. Fiesta -No. 10 Ohio State vs. No. 17 Pitt. Gator ­no. II Iowa vs. No. 12 Florida Hall of Fame -no. 14 West Virginia vs. Kentucky. Florida Citrus -no. 20 Maryland vs. Tennessee. Bluebonnet -baylor vs. Oklahoma State. Peach -florida State vs. North Carolina Independence -Air Force vs. Mis.. sissippi. California -Northern II­
NFL roundup 
linois vs. Fullerton State. 
In other games involving bowl-bound teams, Texas beat Baylor 24-21, Illinois crushed Northwestern 56-24, SMU blanked Arkansas 17-0, Michigan edged Ohio State 24-21, Brigham Young trampled Utah 55·7, Iowa bombed Minnesota 61-10, Syracuse upset West Virginia 27-16, Pitt and Penn State tied 24-24, Boston College trounced Holy Cross 47-7, Kansas stunned Missouri 37·27, Maryland whipped North Carolina State 29·6, Tennessee beat Kentucky 10-0, Ole Miss nipped Mississippi State 24·23, North Carolina outlasted 34-27, Ok· lahoma State trimmed Iowa State 30· 7 and Northern Illinois belted Ohio u. 41-17. 
Nebraska, Auburn, Miami, Geor· gia, Florida and Alabama had the weekend off All but Miami have at least one regular game left. 
Washington State got two short touchdown runs in the second period from freshman Richard Cal· vin to beat Washington, while soph· omore Kerry Porter rushed for I70 yards. 
Meanwhile, UCLA trailed South­ern Cal 10-6 at halftime, but Rick Neuheisel threw a 7-yard touch­down pass to Karl Dorrell, Kevin Nelson scored on a 12-yard run and Bryan Wiley ran 17yards for another TD, all in a six-minute span of the third period. 
Rob Moerschell scored on a 1­yard run and tossed a 6-yard touch· down pass to Mike Chapman as Texas built a 24-7 lead over Baylor and then withstood a fourth-quarter rally. 
jack Trudeau threw four touch· down passes, including two short ones to Tim Brewster and a 47­yarder to David Williams, as Illinois clinched its first Big Ten title in 20 years by routing Northwestern. 
SMU's Reggie Dupard rushed for I 75 yards, including touchdowns of 60 yards and I yard, and the Mus­tangs shut out Arkansas. 
Steve Smith passed for two touch· downs and ran for another as Michigan blew a I 0-0 lead and then rallied to defeat Ohio State. 
BYU's Steve Young completed 22 Of 25 paes for ~8 yards and six touchdowns against Utah. He set or tied nine NCAA records, including 
395.1 yards per game in total of· fense, a 71.3 completion percentage for the season, 306 completions in a season and 22 consecutive games with at least one TD pass. 
Eddie Phillips ran 80 yards for a touchdown on the first play of the game and finished with three touch· downs and I 72 yards to became Iowa's all-time rushing leader with 2,144 in the Hawkeyes' rout of Min· nesota Wingback Ronnie Harmon also scored three times. 
Bob Paulling kicked three field goals to lead No. 13 Clemson over South Carolina 22·13. 
Harold Gayden rushed for two short touchdowns and put Syracuse in position for two more scores with a 57-yard run and a 58-yard recep· tion as the Orangemen knocked off West Virginia 
Nick Gancitano kicked a 32-yard field goal on the final play to give Penn State its tie after Pitt had gone ahead 24-21 with 1:15 remaining on John Congemi's third touchdown pass to Bill Wallace. 
Troy Stradford ran for 165 yards and two touchdowns as Boston Col· lege beat Holy Cross and Frank Seurer threw two TD passes and set a Big Eight passing record as Kansas upset Missouri. Boomer Esiason passed for 215 yards and a TD as Maryland downed N.C. State. 
In other action, Duke's Ben Ben· 
nett became the most prolific passer 
in major-college history when he 
threw for 323 yards and two TDs 
against North Carolina Bennett 
wound up his career with .9,614 
yards, bettering the mark of9,536 by 
BYU'sJim McMahon . 
Arizona State's Luis Zendejas kicked four field goals in a 24-17 tri· umph over SanJose State, giving him 62 for his career, snapping the record of 60 by Clemson's Obed Ariri and equaling the Pac-10 mark of 25 in a season by Washington's Chuck Nelson.. 
And Oregon and Oregon State battled to a 0·0 standoff, the first scoreless game in the major-college ranks since Northern Illinois and Eastern Michigan did it on Oct.. 6, 
I979. 
Dolphins thrash Baltimore, 37-0 

Associated Press 
The Miami Dolphins opened some daylight for themselves in the tight Ainerican Conference East race with a 37·0 thrashing of the Bal· timore Colts on an embarrassing day for many National Football League teams. 
Along with the Colts' whitewash· ing, no less than three other teams were shut out on a day marked by lopsided games, as the Cleveland Browns whipped the New England Patriots 30-0, the Chicago Bears beat the Tampa Bay Bucs 27·0 and the New York Giants blanked the Philadelphia Eagles 23·0. 
Dan Marino's 85-yard pass to Mark Duper and Mark Clayto t n's 60-yard punt return for Miami touchdowns only 42 seconds apart in the second quarter triggered the Colts rout. The victory gave the Dolphins an 8-4 record and a one-game lead in the AFC east over the Buffalo Bills, 27-24 losers to the Los Angeles Raiders. 
In other early afternoon games, the Minnesota Vikings upset the Pittsburgh Steelers 17-14; the Detroit Uons defeated the Green Bay Packers 23-20 in overtime; the St. Louis Cardinals bombed the San Diego Chargers 44-I4 and the Cin· cinnati Bengals crushed the Hous· ton Oilers 38·1 0. 
In late afternoon action, the Washington·Redskins routed the Los Angeles Rams 42-20; the Atlanta Fal­cons edged the San Francisco 49ers 28-24; the Dallas Cowboys whipped the Kansas City Chiefs 41-21 and the 
Denver Broncos outscoreo the 
Seattle Seahawks 38-27. 
Tonight, the New York jets play 
the New Orleans Saints in the Su· 
perdome. 
john Riggins smasbed into the end 
zone on three short touchdown runs 
as the Redskins overpowered the 
Rams. The win kept the Redskins in a 
first-place tie with Dallas in the NFC 
east with a 10·2 record. The Rams, 
now 7·5, remain tied for first place in 
the NFC west with San Francisco. 
Riggins' three touchdowns ran his 1983 total to 19 and tied him for the league lead in TDs with Rams rookie Eric Dickerson and also equaled an NFL mark for touchdowns rushing in a single season, shared by three other players. The Redskin defen· ders intercepted Rams quarterback Vince Ferragamo four times and held Dickerson, the NFL's leading rusher, to just 3 7 yards on I2 carries -the fewest yards in his brief pro career. 
Steve Bartkowski fired a despera­tion pass of4 7 yards to BillyJohnson on the final play of the game to lead Atlanta over San Francisco. Bartkowski threw the ball into a crowd of players inside the 5-yard line and it was tipped out to the 7 to Johnson, who squirmed into the end 
zone. 
The game-winning play capped a 73-yard drive that started with I :04­remaining, six seconds after Joe Montana had given the 49ers a 24-21 lead by scrambling II yards for a touchdown to cap a 51-yard drive. 
Tony Dorsett, who had branded 
the Dallas running game "disgraceful," scored two touch· downs and became the ninth player in NFL history to gain more than 8,000 yards, carrying the Cowboys over the Chiefs. 
Dorsett dashed 28 and 32 yards for touchdowns as he went over the I ,000-yard mark for the sixth time in seven seasons. 
Denver rookie quarterback Gary 
Kubiak, who had never before taken 
a snap in an NFL game, passed for 
one touchdown and ran for another, 
and Rich Karlis booted five field 
goals as the Broncos defeated the 
Seahawks, who lost eight turnovers. 
Kubiak was forced into a starting 
role when rookie John Elway c;une 
down with the flu yesterday morn­
ing. 
Duper's scoring catch, just one yard shy ofMiami's longest pass play ever, boosted the Dolphins' lead to 17·0 with 1:42 to go in the first half and they were on their way. 
Marino said Duper "came up, I looked at him and he took off and I just threw it as fur as I could. It was a great play by Mark." 
"He's the one that made the play," Duper said of Marino. "He held the ball until I could get across the field." 
After Miami's defense held, Clayton took Rohn Stark's punt on one bounce, scooted past one Colt, sliced to his left and scampered be­hind a wall ofblockers for his TD. 

The Observer Monday, November 21, 1983-page 10

Yugoslavian stars signs to play Irish basketball 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Writer 

Nineteen-yt:ar-old Drazon Petrovic, a 6-4 guard for the Yugos­lavian National basketball team, has signed a national letter of intent to attend Notre Dame, Irish head coach Diggn Phelps announced late Friday morning. 
"He signed the papers the other night," said Phelps. "Thrrgives us, I think, another solid class hehind this class." 
Petrovic, whose 24 points led all scorers in last Wednesday night's 7';-7.3 Notre Dame victory over the Yugo~lavians, first caught the eye of lrbh fans last Nov. 21 when l).e scored 1.-\ points in the Yugoslavian team's visit to South Bend. 
Petrovic also plays for Club Sihenka in Yugoslavia and is a mem­hn of the Yugoslavian Army, in which he still has six months ofduty to serve. He will continue to be busy right up until the time he returns to campus next fall as a freshman. 
"He still plays on the National team and in the Olympics," said Phelps. "After the Olympics, he'll be here as a freshman. That's his plan now. He is signed to do that. If he comes to the United States to play college basketball, he's coming to play at Notre Dame. Between now and then, hopefully he shows up." 
Phelps later quipped, "We signed him. But watch the Russians start a war and we'll lose him." 
Petrovic is the fourth player to commit to Notre Dame for next season. Already signed are Dave Rivers, a 6-0 guard from Jersey City, N.J., Matt Beeuwsaert, a 6-6 forward from Santa Ana, Calif., and Gary Voce, a 6-9 forward from the Bronx in New York City. 
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar The Notre Dame hockey team faced its toughest competition ofthe season as they sweptSt. Thomas 3-2 and 7-5 this weekend, J.•eeping their record perfect at
scores 3,OOOth point 
PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) -For 
more than 14 seasons, Kareem 
Ahdui-Jahhar has played his finesse 
game against the bruising centers of 
the National Basketball Association. 
"I've played well a long time," the 
7-foot-2 veteran of tht· Los Angeles 
!.akers said. "It don't come easy." 
Perhaps the points didn't come 
t·asy, hut they did come. Saturday 
night, Abdul-Jahbar became the 
second player in NBA history to 
score 50.000 points in hi~ career. 
"This is really something more for 
the basketball fans to talk about," 
Ahdui-Jabbar said after reaching the 
milestone. 

Now, it appears likely that the 
soft-spoken, .36-year-old, with a new 
two-year contract, will break the all­
time scoring record o£31,419 points set in 14 seasons by Wilt Chamber­lain. The record is not an all­consuming goal for Abdul-Jabbar. 
"If I get it, I'll get it," he said. 
"I hope he gets it this year," said 
!.akers' Coach Pat Riley, adding with 
a smile, "Maybe I'd like to hold him 
hack and get him motivated for next 
year." 

No other player is close to 
challenging Chamberlain's record. 
Elvin Hayes of the Houston Rockets, 
who is in the twilight ofhis career, is 
third on tht· all-time list with 26.975 
points. 

Playing in his 1,10 Ist NBA game Saturday night, Abdul-Jabbar scored 20 points in a I I7-I I0 Los Angeles victory over Portland, giving him .30,007 career points. 
"lie's been consistent for 14 years," Riley said. 
"It's remarkable that a player can have the offensive production he's had year after year," said Portland Coach Jack Ramsay. "To average 27 points a game like he has is tremen­dous." 
Hamsay said it was poimless to ask who was a better player -Cham­berlain or Abdui-Jabbar. 
"They're just different players," Ramsay said. "Wilt was a power player and Kareem is a finesse player." 
Ramsay also said that the addition this Sl·ason of backup center Swen Natn will help add to Abdui-Jabhar's longevity as a player. 
"This year he doesn't have to play !)ig minutes," Ramsay said. "It looks likt· he'll he ahlc: to play 30 minutes or so per game." 
Abdui-Jabbar needed 13 points against Portland to reach the 30,000-point plateau. He scored I I points in the first quarter. 
"I wanted him to get it in the first quarter and get it over with," Riley said. 
But he missed his only shot in the second quarter and didn't get his next two points until he was fouled by Portland guard Darnell Valentine 
with 5:07 left in the half 

Down the stretch, Abdui-Jabbar 
helped thwart a Portland rally with 
seven points, including an important 
three-point play in the closing 
seconds. 

Portland's Mychal Thompson 
marve!ed at Abdui-Jabbar's achieve­
ment. 

"That is the epitome of consis­
tency for him to be that good," he 
said. 
, 


\.1 I hi I 1·m \ 11'\1 U·U-.1'\ 
fCCOIWHIJNIICAIJIICON ~----0 JlrlfcAIJ"IC ~\t()~I()A\, 1 1r111L~\ ~rfll2111~~~ ~ ~ 
AI, Novembe,21 9p.-. Kiss Me Deadly 11955) USA Directed by Robert Aldnch 8/W, 105 m•n CAT on \ When the Object of M•ke Hamm~r·s quest IS lmally revealed, ltus 111m
1

~O~~~nk 1 ~ f suddenly looks less hke an •nexcusably sleazy detective story and more I nMRsnv Of noiRE DAmf ., 1 like a bleak parable descnbtng the atomiC .:~ge 
AdmissioP

'-Annen berg Aud.,SniteMuseum $ 2. oo
Tt() ~ II t(3 Ill lr___,;;;..,;;.....;~ 
Mll\#o___,.. 0 • •• • • -A;.. sA".. ...,.,......_............ 
PHOTO ART SALE 
taken by 
National Geographic Photographers 
& other Beautiful Christmas Gifts 
Prices: $2to $15 
Dates: Nov. 21-22 Mon.-Tues. 
Location: Student Union Lobby 
SMC Lemons Hall 

,.•.....•............, 
: Large Screen TV : 
: Rafferty's : : Monday Night : : Football :
• 

: -Ladies in Nighty's-: e Everytime you·r team scores a e e touchdown-a free draft beer • 
• 

. ' ... ' .. 
' • f> '4 " • 'I ' I t . 
* • • • • • " I t • • " 1111 • ' • • t • 4 -. "' I,. ' ' ll "' '• ...... -.. "• .• ·•• 'P., ·-." ••• o. ..11 \o •.,; •''" •-. • • .. ,;;. ·4 •
• o 
7-0. See EdDomansky'sstory• on page 12for the details on the teams mostphysical matcbup so far thisyear 
Multiple
Choice 
Don't leave your dinner to guesswork.
D 
3 oz. 
(serving) 
Protein t2g Fat tOg 


Domino's Pizza is the best Coka available choice. Just 2 slices are 16 oz. bottles more nutritious, lower in 
Our drivers carry less than $:!0.00.
fat and higher in protein 
Umlted delivery area. 
11:1983 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
than either a taco or 
cheeseburger. 
Nutritional information from: Table l. 
NutritiOnal Analyses of Fast Foods.
So give us a call and put 
United States Agriculture Research us to the test. Service. 
r··--------------------,I 
Mondays only. Only $6.99 for a 16" 
1-item pizza plus 2 16 oz. bottles of Coke. One coupon per pizza Expires: i 1-30-83 
$6.99 
Fast, Free Delivery~ 
1835 South Bend Ave. Pla:1:a 23 Center
II. 
Phone: 277·2151 
35167/2650 
~----------------------~ 


r--------------------------------------­
~~4tllC3L~--------------------------------------M•o•o•d•a•y,•N•o•v•~--b.e_r_2_1_,_19_8_3
__•P•a•g•e·l-1 

Bloom County 
~------------,
fT'S 6./'f ~M. ''TifH?1Y Af1!1?1 Kfi'5 (Jot 1V t.A5T Nf6HT. !31/PfN'Tl.Y, 
'5/R ?. .. Ji/'5T A WORP? 
WlfTCH/Nv 7Hf WOI?£Il WRC${7 8Y Nl/a£Af? WAR HA5 IUT f)i.lf? MAN 1£/?f A 8fT 5HA/I&N. OH 51/U. 5/R, MAY M; HAlle AIJI?/CF CfJf;IM£.1/T ON YOUR ~(.JfKJS 1HI5 MOI?NIN& _? 





Mellish 

The Daily Crossword 

Berke Breathed 


Photius 
BosroN COLJ.EG-t A«£PTEE).. . BliCK 17J YoU ltRR. 
Dave&Dave 

ACROSS 26 Kind of 1 Courage oil 5 Roto 29 Pilgrim 
feature father 10 Thing to go 33 Was indis­
out on posed 14 Lieutenant 34 Phobias 15 Painter's 35 "Norma-" 
need 36 Top banana 16 Biblical 37 Phylum twin division 17 Not guilty, 38 Seamen 
e.g. 39 Tread the 18 Hand or boards band 40 Top social 19 Chinese group dynasty 41 Move 
20 Tailor crabwise 22 Rolling-42 Pettifog­24 Emit gers 
25 Coat or 44 Most mature collar 45 Coup d'­
Saturday's Solution 


26 Madrid lfouses~ · 27 Alphabet 
letter 28 Bluish-gray 29 Defeats 30 Play the 
market 31 Noblemen 32 Adjust 34 Makeeyes 37 Most lucid 38 Gambler's 
contacts 40 Major 
follower 41 Models 43 Furniture 
purchase 44 Rodeo performers 46 Bridge supports 
47 Fairy tale opener 48 Longevity 
unit 49 Impudence 50 Busy place 51 Student's 
concern 52 Wedding symbol 53 Mulligan's dish 56 Impair 


~0;::::/NG?
I 

O'HARE --$9.00 
Student union bus leaves Wednesday 1:00 PM Sign up at S.U. Ticket Office/Record Store by Tuesday 4:00PM *Also South Shore Shuttle from station to campus on Sunday night 
')CCICCI CCI 
50 Jazz fans 54 [ike a per­
fectionist 55 Zola 57 Stage 
direction 58 Lawyer's concern 59 Banker's 
favorite 60 Marathon 61 Gaelic 62 Lock of 
hair 63 Merganser 
DOWN 1 Blanks 2 Vex 3 Fantasy 4 Truckdriver 5 Vex 6 Abhorred 7 Glacial 
ridges 8 Perfection rating 9 Senior citizens 
10 Ade ingre­dients 11 The fat­the fire 12 Neck hair 13 Jitter and 
litter 
Campus · 
• -Photo Art Sale, LeMans Hall, SMC, Sponsored by Angel Gifts, $2 to $1 5 
•Workshop-"Tuna 
Wars in the Pacific,", Prof. Linda Hudgins, Memorial Library Lounge 

•2 
p.m.-Papal Council Meeting, "The Meaning ofCulture,", Herve Carrier, CCE 

•4:15 
p.m. -Kellogg Institute Lecture, "Fearmonering, Youth Gangs, and Ideological, Control in the University Setting,", Pro~ Larissa Lomnitz, 105 Law School 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Kiss Me Deadly,", Annenberg Auditorium 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Tommy,", Engineering 


Auditorium, Sponsored by Knights of Columbus, Sl 
•7 
p.m.-Discussion, of the 1V movie "The Day After,", Prof Bill McGlinn, and Prof Mitch Lifton, Center; for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero, CSC, and Educational Media, 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meetingofthe Faculty Senate, 202 CCE 

•7:30 
p.m. -Graduate students Ecumenical Fellowship, Campus Ministry Office, Badin Hall, 


0­
•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Atomic Physics in the 1980's", Dr. Walter R. Johnson, Notre Dame, Library Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Michiana Brass, Little Theatre 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series II, "New York, New York,", Annenberg Auditorium 


I TV Tonight 

II-~ 
~ 
"Yes, they're all fools, gentlemen ... But the question remains, 'What KIND of fools are they?'" 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. llp.m. 
Far Side . .· 
16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 34 Straight Talk 16 Boone 22 Scare Crow and Mrs. King 28 That's Incredible 34 The Making ofa Continent 16 NBC Monday Night Movie 22 After MASH 28 Monday Night Football 34 Great Performances 22 Newhart 22 Emerald Point N.A.S. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 34 Straight Talk Rpt 
Student Union takes you to••• *
* *
* *
* 
*** ASPEN **
* *
* *
* 
*
* 
*
* *
* *
* including 6 nights condo accomodations *
* 
* 
5 day lift ticket
* 
*
* $265.00 *
* *
* 
*
* *
* Start thinking about SPRING BREAKI *
Jl.
* 
Monday, November 21, 1983 -page 12 
Irish going to Liberty despite loss to Falcons 
By MIKE SULLIVAN best game ever in his last pt·rfor­Sports Editor mance at Notre Dame Stadium, and Fakon running back Mike Brown. 
Folks at Boston College probably And there were three blocked kicks, were saying, "How could they do three turnovers, and I '5 penalties. it?" Folks at Arizona State and Wash­However, Notre Dame football ington State might have been saying, fans did not think the game was "I'm glad they did it." And folks "great." They saw their team lose for around Notn· Dame and the nation the second straight time to Air arc saying, "I'm getting too used to Force, they saw them drop a 12­it." point lead that even the television 
The "it" is the Notre Dame foot­announcer thought safe, they saw ball team's 23-22 loss to Air Force them lose their third straight game, Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. and they saw them lose their la~t five Despite the loss and a 6-5 record, games on national or regional televi­however, the Irish players have sion. voted to pla_y in the Liberty Bowl'Jn "When is this going to change?" December29. wondered Faust. 
The defeat added to the miserable "This game ha~ become a game of record that Notre Dame ha~ breaks and we ju!tt have not gotten compiledduringtht· last few years in them," said Pinkett who broke a the last three games of the season. number of school records Saturday
The Obscrv<r/Stcve Jegier 

Blair Kiel's last home game proved to be his best That mark stands at 1-8. It also gave with 197 yards. "We seemingly al­
23-22 loss to theAirForce. See Mike Sullivmr's story at 
statisic:all_y, as thefour-year commander took overfor Notre Dame a 2-3 record at home, ways end up on the short end ofthe
right for game details and the latest on tbe Liberty starter Steve Beuerlein. Hower1er, even Kiel's best bowlpicture. the first time a Notre Dame team has stick. The seniors deserved to go out caret'l"game statistical~y couldn't save the Irishfrom a had a losing record at home since in style. We played our butts offand 
1963. that's why it's so frustrating to lose." The loss to the Falcons was the The Notre Dame performance didMetzler stars second straight heartbreaking loss not change much from the other for the Irish. Last week, Notre Dame four losses. Some bad luck did not fell to Penn State in the last minute. help, but bad mistakes proved fatal.
Notre Dame sweeps St. Tho1nas 

The two games were similiar in that The three blocked kicks, two inter­the Irish lost fourth-quarter leads. ceptions, nine penalties, a number of BY ED DOMANSKY Only three minutes later, fresh­Benning added three assists to missed and a
However, while Penn State had the opportunities, Sports Writer man Tom Smith's powerplay goal support the Irish effort yesterday. final scoring opportunity, Notre defensive collapse in the fourth 
knotted the score at three. Chapman added two assists to his 
Dame had the final chance against quarter were the difference. Three unanswered third period St. Thomas came rolling back, team-leading scoring total. He now the Air Force. A 3I-yard Mike Despite these errors, though, the 
goals by senior wing Mike Metzler striking twice within two minutes has eight goals and ten assists. Ben­Johnston field goal attempt was Irish could have won ifAir Force had 
gave the Notre Dame hockey team a near the end of the stanza to take a ning is now tied for second with blocked as time ran out, though, and not played such an inspired game.7-5 win overSt. Thomas College yes­commanding two goal lead into the Thebeau. They each havt: 15 points 
the result turnt:d out to be the same. "I should have the team in here terday afternoon, and a weekend final period. on four goals and II assists. "It certainly was a great game for (in the media room), not me," said a !>Weep ofthe Tummies at the ACC. Smith rep;aced junior goalk AI The Irish played without the 
the fans. But it was tough on the happy Air Force coach Ken Hatfield. The undefeated Irish now have a Haverkamp with Friday's starter, services of Bonadio. He and St. 
coach," said Faust, echoing his com­"No one up here felt we had a 7-0 overall record and a 5-0 mark in freshman Tim Lukenda Lukenda Thomas's Olson were eje<:ted Friday 
ments after the Penn State loss. chance which only helped us. I'd the Central States Collegiate Hockey shut out the Tummies in the final for fighting and sat out their one­
If "great" means exciting, then like to thank you for voting us 14­League after the non-leagut: sweep. period, while the Irish came up with game suspension yesterday. 
Faust was right. Nobody can deny point underdogs. Notre Dame had a In Friday's action, the leers came 
four goals to earn the victory. The weekend sweep giyes Smith a that it was an exciting game as the lot going for them. I told my players out 3-2 winners as junior left wing Senior center Adam Parsons 2-0 coaching advantage over his for­
Irish erased an Air Force lead by that, whatever happens today, you'll Steve Ely connected for the game pulled the Irish to within a goal at mer player and St. Thomas coach, scoring 22 unanswered points remember for the rest ofyour life." winner at the 3:49 mark of the third I:53 of the third period. He rifled a Terry Abram. Now, Smith is one before the Falcons countered with What Notre Dame would like to 
period. slapshot past T.ubbs to cut the game .500 he upped his
over as 13 unanswered points of their own. The Irish scored first, taking a 1-0 Tommie lead to 5-4. career record to 259-258-27. 
There were great performances by see IRISH, page 8 lead on a good by sophomore Dave Just :45 seconds later, Metzler 
Allen Pinkett, Blair Kiel, who had his Waldbillig at the 5:49 mark of the scored the first ofhis three goals on a first period. Metzler accounted for slapshot through the legs ofTubbs. 
Kiel's best performance 

the other Notre Dame goal, coming The score remained deadlocked in the second period. Sophomore at five until the 14:13 mark when dcfenseman Qob Thebeau con­Metzler picked up what proved to 
Seniors J~id farewell to home crowd 

tributed two assists on the evening. on Irish his teammates. "The line did a great
be the game winner an was picked up by Air Force's Mike
By ED•DOMANSKY

lbe gamt· was fao;t and rough, but power play. 
job and my teammates have had con­Kirby. The Falcons scored two plays
Sports Writer 

the fact that no penalties were called Then, with under one minute to 
fidence in me all year," he said. "That later to pull within six. in tht.· first period, was no evidence play, Metzler completed the hat For Irish football coach Gerry 
made my job a lot easier to come in "It was one of those things," said of this. A sudden change of events trick and iced the victory for Notre Faust and most of his players, the 
with us behind." Brown. "I was more concerned with occured in the second period, Dame with an assist from junior co­primary halftime thought Saturday 
For placekicker Mike johnston, running with the ball rather than however, when 14 penaltit-s were captain Brent Chapman. was finding a way to cut a 10-7 Air 
the day wao; not quite as memorable. catching it. · whistled against both teams. The Metzler said the victory was a big Force lead 
His career string of consecutive Tri-captain John Mosley was notpenalty situation reached its peak one for the team. But for 24 seniors some st:ntimen­extra points was snapped at 51 when sure to react after Saturday's

howwhen Notre Dame's Tony Bonadio "ll was the first time all seawn tal feelings may have crept into their attempt the

his conversion on game. "I don't know how I feel," heand St. Thoma~·s Steve Olson were that we. trailed," he said. "Between golden helmets. 

second Irish touchdown wa~ said "I don't know whether to cryor

ejected from the game for fighting periods we were just saying let's go It would be the final time that they blocked. "The extra point (kick) laugh. I feel good about us as a teamjust past the half-way point. out and show what we got. I was for­would charge onto the field at was low," he said. "That's what I was -a~ a unit. I realized that winning atTht· hard-hitting Tommies gave tunate enough to get the three goals famous Notre Dame Stadium. 
told anyway." 
anythmg reflects the group. In win­the Irish their strongest challenge and we just never gave up." Quarterback Blair Kiel came out On the blocked field goal attempt ning or losing, we shared a feeling.

thus far this sea~m. Smith was very proud ofhis team's knowing he could end his college that could have won the game, a dis­We felt as one and that's what Notre·"St. lbomao; wa~ a real good test effort. career by guiding the Irish to a appointed Johnston remarked, "It Dame is all about."
for us," said Irish coach I.efty Smith "ll shows a heck ofa lot ofcharac­come-from-behind win. And when felt like I hit it solid Usually when I The other tri-captain. cornerbackafter yest<.·rday's game. "They were ter to come from behind," he said. Faust put him in the game halfway hit it solid, it should be good." 
Sta(·ey Toran. chippt.·d in with threev<.·ry saappy and wanted these "It gave the kids a chance to show through the second quarter, the 50-yard at­Johnston also bad a tackles in his final home appearance.

games very b'adly." what they were really made of." senior tri-captain did well, but it wa~ tempt blocked in the first quarter. 
Linebacker Rick Naylor playedThe next action for the leers 

Smith also emphasized that not enough. Cornerback Chris Brown said that 
well and added seven. 

comes next weekend a~ the team deft-nse was a key to the game. "Personally I felt good to come off he was depressed after Saturday's Tim Marshall saw a<:tion at flip
travels to tht· University of "The difference goes back to the bench and contribute," he said. loss. "To go out and play ao; hard as Michigan-Dearborn. defense," he said. "We were better "But it hurts to lose." you can and lose is a very frustrating tackle, but made no stops. On the offen;;ive side of the line,
Sunday, Notre Dam<.· fell behind deft•nsivcly than they were, and it Kiel saved his best career perfor­feeling," he said. 'Td rather we had Neil Maune and Mike Shiner turned
for the first time this sea~on when St. had a marked effect in the whole mance for last as he accounted for not driven downfield and had it all Thoma~·s Mark Vanelli S<:orcd at series. They handled the intensive 285 of the team's 288 pao;sing yards. taken away." in solid performances, opening up '5::\8 ofthe first period. forechecking very well." He connected on 16 of 22 attempts The pomp and circumstance of big holes for tailback Allen Pinkett 
lbe lead wa~ short-lived, After a solid performance in the for two touchdowns with one: inter­his final home game was far from and protecting Kiel in passing situa­however, after the Irish scored two nets on Friday, Lukenda found it ception. Brown's mind until the game wao; tions. of the sca~m·s unprettiest goals. somewhat awkward to take over in Although it was his last chance to over. "Not until after the block did I Greg Golic also saw some action 
Sophomore defenseman Greg the third period. prove himself in front of the home realize that it was all over," he said. at quick tackle. 
Duni.:an bounced tht.· puck past St. "I knew the team was fired up," he crowd, K.iel experienced regret "Ever since I've been here, we've yet Mike Favorite appeared at split 'Iboma~ goalie Mike Tubbs at 7: I 0 of said, "and I knew it was up to them. I about having to take over for fresh­to win our last game. I wanted to go end, but had no receptions to his the first period. About six minutes just tried to make a few stops and man Steve Beuerlein. "I feel bad for out in style-a winner." credit. later, Waldbillig deflected a Mark help us get back in it." Steve," said K.iel. "He's been our At one point, what looked like a For all 24 seniors, the game had to Benning shot past an off-balanced "It was a good team effort," said quarterback all year and he's done a sure interception for Brown, turned have been a special one, whether Tubbs to put the Irish in front 2-1. junior defenseman Ricci. good job. It would have been nice instead be they played or not. All ofthem were
Rob "It out to a 15-yard pass 
Midway through the second showed that we worked together for bothofusifwe could have Jpulled completion for Air Force. Early in able to wear the blue and gold and period, St. Thomas scored two goals and came out on top working as a out a win." the fourth quarter, a Falcon pass say that they were truly a part ofthe in just 13 seconds to take a 3-2 lead. unit; and that's the key to success." K.iel shared his day's success with Notre Dame football tradition.
bounced out of Brown's hands and 

-------___________________________. 






