-~-­
• • Perfect Valentine -page 9 
• 


to a small but enthusiastic crou•d. (Photo bv Scott Bower) . 
Hinckley alive after suicide attempt 
WASHINGTON (AP) -John W. Hinckley Jr., found innocent by reason of insanity of shooting Presi· dent Reagan, was hospitalized in serious condition yesterday after an 
apparent suicide attempt,  authori·  
ties said.  
Hinckley,  connected  to  a  

respirator, may be in danger of dying. 
"He is stable and we believe he'll be all right," said Dr. James Levy, president ofGreater Southeast Com· munity Hospital, where Hinckley was taken. "We will not be able to tell you with certainty for the next 24 to 48 hours whether he's out of the woods." 
The incident was at least the third apparent suicide attempt by Hinckley since he shot and wounded the president and three other men outside the Washington Hilton Hotel in March 1981. 
Hinckley, 27, was found semicon· scious at about 8:30 a.m. yesterday on the floor of his room at St. Elizabeths Hospital, where he has been in indefinite confinement since last year's trial, said Wayne Pines, a spokesman for St. Elizabeths. Cardio-pulminary resuscitation and oxygen were administered. 
"There is every reason to believe he did take a substance," Levy said. 
He said doctors had some idea what the substance was, but he declined to identity it. "I would say it was related to a medication taken at St. Elizabeths. I would say he took an excessive amount." 
The manner in which Hinckley obtained the medication is under in­vestigation, Pines said. 
Levy said Hinckley's color was blue when he reached the hospital yesterday, "He was not breathing at all well" and the level of acid in his blood was raised severely. 
"He has improved but is still seriously ill," he said. 
Levy said Hinckley was on a respirator in the critical care unit, where he had round·the·clock nurs· ing and security protection. 
Asked if Hinckley were in danger ofdying, the doctor replied, "Yes." How much danger? 
"It's a little hard to ·characterize that. I can't give you a prognosis." 
Asked about the substance that Hinckley took, Pines said it usually takes about 24 hours to make a com· plete evaluation. 
He said it was "a little early" to characterize the incident as a suicide attempt. But, pressed by reporters, he said that given Hinckley's history, "I think it's a reasonable assumption." 
"He attempted to commit suicide this morning," Detective Mike 
McClary of the District of Columbia police criminal investigation divi­sion said yesterday morning.. 
In May 1981, Hinckley took a cache of Tylenol tablets while he was undergoing psychiatric tests at the Butner Correctional Facility in North Carolina. Justice Department spokesmen said at the time that Hinckley's life had not been in dan· ger. 
On Nov. 1S, 1981, he used a jacket 
See HINCKLEY, page 5 

Warsaw police disperse 2, 000 demonstrators 
WARSAW, Poland (AP)-Several hundred police, lobbing tear gas grenades and flailing rubber batons, dispersed more than 2,000 people demonstrating last night outside a church for the outlawed Solidarity labor union. It was the largest protest demonstration in Poland in three months. 
Between 200 and :100 police moved into position outside Holy Cross Church in downtown Warsaw as a commemorative Mass ended for Solidarity members who had been interned after martial law was imposed Dec. 1_>,, 19H1. 
A crowd estimated at between 2,000 and :1,000 moved into the street, singing pro·Solidarity songs and chanting "Down with the junta!"and "Leszek! leszek!" the nickname of Solidarity union chief Lech Walesa. 
Police fired about four tear gas cannisters at the crowd and then at· tacked with long riot batons, chasing small groups through the downtown streets. 
Western reporters saw police detain about a half dozen people. 
:'vteanwhile, CardinalJozefGlemp, in his first sermon since becoming a cardinal 11 days ago, defended him· self against criticism that he has taken too moderate a stance toward the communist government. 
"Some people say the primate should be more militant, should be sharper" in dealing with authorities, he said in a sermon at St. Andrew's Church, also in downtown Warsaw. 
"Everyone wants the hierarchy, the episcopate, to carry out their programs, but the church must be faithful to the program outlined in the Gospel," he added. 
Glemp, S-1. was elevated to car­dinal by Polish·born Pope John Paul II in Vatican ceremonies feb. 2. 

Betty Carter 

On-campus housing lottery possible 
By MIKE WILKINS 
Senior StaffReporter 
The possibility of a lottery for next year's on·campus housing was announced by father Michael Hep· pen, director of student residences, late friday. 
The lotten· would be in response to "an unusually high number of room contracts for the 19H:I-H·t academic year," according to a hul· letin released by Heppen. 

The increase in room contracb has caused the Otlice of Student Residences to cancel the forfeiture of room deposit and the S 1 SO tine for students who have returned room contracts and have now decided to move otl··campus. Stu­dents who ha\-e turned in room con­tracts for next year and arc considering moving off-campus will have until March :10 to do so without penalty. 
Hcppen said he thought ap­proximatelv 200 men and ~:; women who have already turned in room contracts for next year would have to decide to move off-campus in order to avoid a lottery. 
"I can not predict what is going to happen," Heppen said. "If enough people decide to move otl'-campus we won't have a lottery. If they don't, we probably will." 
Heppen noted that he is not sure how a lottery would work, if that was the decision of the administra­tion. 'Til he talking to the rectors about the possihilin ofa lottery and I'll he open 10 suggestions from them," lleppen remarked. 
Jorge Valencia, student govern· ment housing coordinator, thinks that a housing lottery would ellect only seniors, but there is no set plan for a lottery. "I would say that a housing lottery is a real possibility, but nobody is certain what would happen or how a lottery would work," I Yalencia said. 
The Student Gon:rnment will he 
providing  information  to  students  
who  are  interested in  moving off.  
campus,  according  to  Valencia.  It  

also is trying to get landlords of nearby apartmen-t complexes to provide students with as much in· formation as possible. A plan to help students tlnd off·campus housing and roommates also is being con­sidered. 
Both Heppen and Valencia said that Brother John Campbell, direc­tor of off·campus housing, will have information for students who are considering moving off·campus, including off.campus crime statis· tics that show that off·campus crime recently has diminished. 
"I really encourage people to look into the possibility of moving off· campus," Valencia added. 



Jazz singer to perform tonight 
By THERESA GUARINO 
News Staff 
Jazz singer Betty Carter, who has appeared with jazz greats like Dizzy Gillespie, Duke Ellington and Miles Davis will present a lecture on the history of jazz before her solo per­formance tonight as the Notre Dame Black Cultural Festival continues. 
In addition to performing on other jazz musicians' albums, Carter, a Hint, Michigan native, has recorded a few albums of her own. 
She currently is touring with Lionel Hampton. Carter is well known for her Ella fitzgerald·like vocal style. 
This year's Black Cultural Arts Fes· tival started on January 30 with a gospel program. The Festival began at Notre Dame IS years ago and is now an annual event. Events so far this year have included an alumni forum and a performance by televi· sion actorJohn Amos. 
The festival is organized by a committee which solicits money from various University depart­ments to fund its actiVIties. ~ponsors include the Student Union, Student Activities, the College of Arts and 
Letters,  and  the  Black  Studies  
Department.  
"We'd like  to  see more  people  

come out," said Alena Harris, this year's Festival chairman. Those who have attended have been_ very receptive, however. Attendance has been good." 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival will continue through February and end March 5 with a fashion show. 




NewsBrieb 
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
Marjorie Schreiber Kinsey, Notre Dame professor of art history, will deliver a noon talk tomorrow entitled "Constructivism: Sculpture's Emergence into Modernism or The Basis For Modern Sculpture" as part of the Great Sculptors Lecture Series. "Picasso bent cardboard into a guitar; Tatlin hung scraps of metal in a corner. Construction was an alternative to traditional met­hods of sculpture which presented new possibilities for three dimensional work that are still being exploited," Kinsey said. The lecture, 12:10-12:55, will be held in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum ofArt. -The Observer 
Unemployed residents of Wells County, Indiana and their dependents don't have to let financial troubles make them neglect their physical needs, thanks to the_ "We Care Clinic." The clinic is offering routine medical care for acute medical problems for S5 per person per visit. The clinic handles sore throats, fever, back pain, diarrhea and eye, ear, nose and throat infections. Wells County had a 12.4 percent unemployment rate in December. The no­appointment, walk-in clinic began operating last week. The program was initiated as a three-month experiment by the Caylor-Nickel Clinic and medical center. -AP 
Poor and elderly Los Angeles County residents can take home a share of 4.6 million pounds of federal surplus cheese and butter, to be handed out in another government warehouse­cleaning beginning today. Tile giveaway is largest in the county since the federal government started emptying its warehouses of excess dairy products last year. Joan Pinchuk, spokeswoman for the 
county Community Development Department, said Saturday about 460,000 households would benefit. People who qualify will receive a 5-pound block of American cheese and five 1-pound packages of butter. -AP 
A police dispatcher made a series oferrors that may have added 1 5 minutes to the time it took officers to reach the home ofa woman fatally stabbed while waiting for help, Dallas Police Chief Billy Prince said. Price told a City Council committee Friday the delay was caused by "human error" and a shortage ofofficers during a shift change.Jackye Patrick, 29, was found deadJan. 27 in her home in the Oak Cliffsection ofDallas half an hour after she called police to report prowlers in her back yard. Prince told the City Council's Public Safety Committee that an internal police report showed squad cars were routed to less important calls during the 31 minutes. Prince said he could not determine if the errors con­tributed to the death. The dispatcher, who was not identified, was not disciplined. -AP 
U.S. trade representatiVe William Brock left for home yesterday at the end of a four-day visit, taking back a pledge from Japan's top trade official to limit car exports to the United States for the third straight year. During his visit, Brock held a series of trade talks with Japanese officials and attended a trade conference 
with participants from Japan, the European Community and Canada. At the trade conference Friday, Brock and his counterparts dis­cussed the world economy and agreed to fight protectionist pressures they said threaten global recovery. On Saturday, Brock met with Minister for International Trade and Industry Sadanori Yamanaka anJ discussed bilateral trade problems. Yamanaka told Brock Japanese automakers would again limit auto exports to the United States to 1.68 million units in fiscal 1983, which begins in April. -AP 
Vice President George Bushsaid yesterday that the United States would find it difficult to deal with Soviet leader Yuri Andropov if he is implicated in the assassination attempt on PopeJohn Paul II. At the same time, Bush stoutly denied suggestions that the United States was trying to downplay the possibility that Andropov was involved in the plot out offears that would jeopardize arms negotiations with Moscow. "The idea we don't want the truth to come out is absolute hogwash, total," Bush said on CBS--TV's" Face the Nation." "We are not upplaying it or downplaying it,'' said Bush. "It's in the courts ...We are very interested to see the truth come out on this matter. It's a matter of conscience, it's a mau:er that has shaken the entire world."-AP 
Gunmen believed to be Basque separatists killed a pregnant woman and seriously wounded her industrialist husband by spraying submachinegun fire into their car in the center of the Basque country town of Tolosa, Spain police said. Patricia Yanillo, 32, was killed in the attack Saturday night. Her husband, Jose Luis Alonso Alvarez, 44, was in the hospital with two bullet wounds in his chest, police said. Officers quoted witnesses as saying two young men opened fire on the couple's car in Tolosa and then fled in a waiting car toward San Sebastian. Police said they found bullet shell_s at the scene of the type often used by the Basque terrorist group ETA. -AP 
Mosdy sunny and warm today. High in low and mid 40s. Fair and cool tonight. Low in upper 20s to around 30. Increasing cloudiness and mild tomorrow. High in low 40s. -AP 
Monday, February 14, 1983-page 2 
Tylenol's coming back 
There was an emergency that sunny morning inside 
the New Jersey redhrick headquarters of the 55.4 
billion-a-year health care giant, Johnson &Johnson. 
Something about some people in Chicago -West Chicago-and they had died ( wasn'.t one still in critical condition') and Tylenol, the kind in capsules, was laced with an unknown poison -reporters were saying cyanide -but anyway, something was terribly, dread­fully wrong with Tylenol. 
David Collins, a 1958 Notre Dame graduate, was still on the phone when his secretary poked her head in to say the chairman of J&J needed Collins in his office upstairs immediately. Collins, a former general counsel and company group chairman, was barely a month into his new job as chairman of McNeil Consumer Products, maker of Tylenol and subsidiary of)&J that controlled 35 percent of the billion dollar analgesic market. 
Fifteen minutes after his phone conversation, Collins learned he would be in charge of directing J&j's response to what would evolve as the greatest 
medication crisis in recent lot of talk about trust, and times. A company helicop­how much more expensive


TYLENOL
ter flew him, a lawyer, and a public relations adviser 60 miles to Fort Washington, Penn. where McNeil has its laboratories and where Col­lins would begin the long and expensive road to save the giant that had been brought to its knees by an 
unknown killer. 
"We had no idea where it would end,'' Collins said last November. "It looked like the plague. And the only in­formation we had was that we didn't know what was going on." 

Collins' first move was to call his Notre Dame roommate of some 25 years before, an attorney who had handled some Chicago business for J &J, and ask him to get the facts of the situation from the medical ex­aminer's office and caH him back at McNeil. Said Collins, "I needed my own eyes and ears on the scene." 
It's been four months since that sunny morning last fall, and Extra-Strength Tylenol has reappeared on the shelves of drug and grocery stores. The new triple safety-seal, tamper-resistant package is to protect Tylenol from ever having to face such a disaster again. The box flaps are now glued, a plastic shrink neckband covers the cap, and finally, an inner foil seals the mouth of the bottle like paper liners seal coffee jars. The federal Food and Drug Administration issued new packaging standards for over the counter drugs, but McNeil had finished designing the new container two days after the poisonings. 
Overcoming the crisis that received more media 
Bob Vonderheide 
News Editor 

Inside Monday 

coverage per time than the Vietnam War will not be easy or inexpensive. "There's no way we can come riding in on elephants blowing horns and saying here we are," Collins said. Indeed, despite a horn-blowing advertising campaign, McNeil's main surge to regain the market has been to convince doctors to begin recommending Tylenol to patients as McNeil did 23 years ago when Tylenol was first produced. 
The cost? Tylenol was expected to reap a record S500 million this year, but analysts say half that will be 
lucky. Paranoid consumers 
will first have to swallow a 
Tylenol will cost the con­sumer in the long run remains to be seen. 

' . But the fact that the name Tylenol has not vanished from the market is remarkable in itself. From the start, despite an initial SO percent drop in sales, J&J refused the obvious but un­derhanded alternative of 
--l--111r-+-l---l--i--+-i reintroducing the same pain 1 j reliever under a new, cheery
1 

_...,>lilt~-+-+,.-12 label.
~--r-, 
~."':?-Through this whole -episode, McNeil and J&J 
have received much credit for remaining honest and open rather than hiding all the facts ofthe facade of"no comment."]&J has been a step ahead of all the federal and local regulations that naturally develop in the hysteria ofcorporate tragedies. Can J&J's business friends in Detroit say as much? The anti-corporation movement may very well have trouble putting horns atop Johnson & Johnson's headquarters. Tylenol is coming back, and Johnson & Johnson wouldn't have it any other way. 

Observer notes____-. 
The Observer is always looking for new people. We need people in layout, production, news, sports , etc. If you would like to get involved call 239-5303 or just stop up and talk to one ofus here. We're located on the third floor of LaFortune. 
The Observer OBSERVER LOVE BOAT Design Editor......... Captain J.P K~y~s.th~ Love Angler Design Assistant...... Due Pete( this won't hurt a bit..) TJ'Pesetters . ............................ R~ggic-lsaac, BWD-Goph~r (Tonight's Episod~) News Editor ........ Vic ("The expert Com-put~r") Copy Editor...... ... Kathy (Quit~ a Lady) Features LavoutSarah (Bur hr:'s my boss) Editorials it~vout Tim (Not some more) Sports Copv Editor...... lEd (That's Not My Wife) NDDavEditor Jane (We ncv~rsaw her..) .\MC Dav Editor... .. ...... Libby.... TJ'pists.... . ................. "Fast ringers" A.d Design ... ...... Bill (I just put them in) Photographer. Scott (It's how you us~ it) Guest Appearances... l.ihhv (red lights in the darkroom) Pete's-Nancy, Kassy. Noreen, Bunny, and Mary Anne. j.P.'s-Mari~L. Lisa, Denise, and Elephant Ankles Margar~t (Growing pains) We promise something for everyone.  
The Observer !USPS 598 9201 rs published Monday through Ft~day and on home football Saturdays except dut~ng exam and vacatron penods The Observer rs published by the students of Notre Dame and Sarnl Mary sCot­lege Subsct~ptrons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester! by wrrtrng The Observerr P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lndrana 46556 The Observer rs a mernber of The Associated Press All reproductron rrghts are reserved Second class postage pard at Notre Dame lndrana 46556  



--~ ~------~--------~· 

---~--·-,-----~-~ 
The Observer Monday, February 14, 1983 -page 3 

Hesburgh to dedicate Concerns Building 
By POLLY HUDAK. Nouwen, a former Notre Dame News Staff psychology department faculty member, came to the University in 
A Mass concelebrated by Father 1966, at the request of Psychology Theodore Hesburgh, University ProfessorJohn Santos. Santos was, at President, and guest homilist Father the time, setting up Notre Dame's Henri ]. M. Nouwen are among the Psychology Department. special events planned for the the Though scheduled to teach for new Center for Social Concerns only two semesters, Nouwen stayed Dedication, April 14-16. an extra year by invitation of Hes­
The ceremony will begin with the burgh. blessing of the new center by Hes­Upon leaving Notre Dame, burgh in the cemer's multi-purpose Nouwen continued his studies in room, before the Dedication Mass. psychology, concentrating on its There will be a reception and dinner theological aspects. In the early 70's, at the Center tor Continuing Educa­he assumed the position ofassociate tion. professor at Yale's Divinity School. 
A number ofother guest speakers Nouwen has published severaland alumni will participate in the
night in the Library Auditorium. (Photo by Scott books, among them,Jntimacy, taken
dedication.
Bower) from a Notre Dame lecture series he
Dedication services will continue delivered in 1969. Since Intimacy,with a collection of "Social Con­Nouwen has had a number of cerns in Catholic Higher Education" theological works published.
symposiums and reflections on so­Nouwen integrates his works withcial concerns service, learning and personal experience.
analysis. Center Director Father Don 
McNeil and Assistant Directors Sis­"I have felt it crucial to think and 
terJudith Anne Beattie and Kathleen write about things in such a manner By KATHLEEN DOYLE The newest service offered by C & tions of the old infirmary chapel. It Maas Weigert will moderate these that people who listen will be able to AssistantNews Editor PSC is Counseline, which is was redecorated for use by the discussions. recognize the experience and say 
operated in a separate room within C&PSC for workshops, films, and Father David Tp;on will host a 'You articulate something for me 
More than 350 people attended the Center. Counseline is a con­lectures. The C & PSC did not dedication luncheon on April 1 S at that I know, but still need to hear. It the Open House of the Counseling fidential, completely anonymous previously have a room large the CCE. An Open House from :\-5 is just over the threshold of my con­and Psychological Services Center telephone service which began last enough for such functions. p.m. will follow. sciousness,"' said Nouwen. last Friday at the Notre Dame Stu­Wednesday. Tapes on a variety of dent Health Center. student concerns can be heard Mon. 
The Open House was the formal -Thurs., 4-9 p.m. 

350 attend Center Open House 

Government reconstruction 
announcement of the recently Counseline has been successful, merged university Counseling according to Michael Mond, acting Services and the Student Psychologi­director of C & PSC. An average of 


Hocter asks for Board's help 
cal Services Center. The merge, 25 calls a day have been received planned during the 1981 spring since the start of the program. By LAURA HARTIGAN and the first women's college to The question of reserving space semester, was implemented this As a result ofthe mergerr the Cen­News Staff make a formal statement in favor of for incoming freshman in tradition­
. 
summer and effective with the start ter's library has been expanded and the unilateral freeze. ally upperclass dorms was "put on ! : ofthe 1982-83 academic year. new resource materials have been Elaine Hocter, next year's student Michele Manion, chairman of hold," according to Susie Miller, I· The Open House included a tour obtained. Films, tapes, and texts body president, asked for help and Little Sister's Weekend, was pleased 
chairman of the freshman council.
of the improved facilities by the staff dealing with a variety ofpsychologi­suggestions in reconstructing Saint that many people signed up to help \ The Housing Committee has
members. A new wing of office and cal problems are available through Mary's student government at last with the event. Ideas tor the decided to wait until next year,
therapy rooms has been added, as the Center. night's Board of Governance weekend include roller skating, a well as a library, an enlarged waiting Those who attended the Open meeting. sock-hop and a swimming party tor when more student input can be room, and an audio-visual room. House were able to view the renova-Monica Gugle, elections commis­the little sisters. Little Sister's generated to take any steps to in­
sioner, said that voter turnout on Weekend will be held April 1 S-17. tegrate the dorm. election day "was phenomenal." Eighty percent of the student body

Police discover bodies 

voted in the elections. According to Gugle, the high tur­nout is "the reason we are sticking to 
(having voting polls setup in) the


in massgrave 'garden' 
\ 

\ 

LONDON (AP) -Police dug up 
more bones yesterday in what 
British newspapers call a mass mur­
derer's "garden ofsecret graves" and 
let reporters tour the adjoining 
house where they say the killer may 
have chopped up 1 7 victims. 
They also appealed to anyone 
who once lived in the house to come 
forward and help in the murder 
probe. 
The bones, found at various loca­
tions in the backyard of the building 
in the Cricklewood district of north 
London, have been sent to a pat­
hologist for examination. Detective 
Supt. Norman Briers, leading the 
search, said they were most likely 
human but did not elaborate. 
Scotland Yard has said it expects 
to find rotting pieces of as many as 
17 victims of a mass murderer who, 
according to published reports, met 
young drifters in north London 
pubs, lured them home, strangled 
them, hacked up their corpses and 
boiled the pieces. 
Dennis Nilsen, 37, a state employ­
ment oftke executive, ex-army cook 
and former probationary London 
policeman, was arraigned Saturday 
on charges of murdering the only ·.victim yet identified -Stephen N.
a•••••••••• 
• Buy : 
• I • 
:Observer : 
•ci ·r· •
: ass1 1eds: 
dorms." Sinclair, a 20-year-old drifter. Runoffs for the Freshman and 
A plumber trying to fix a clogged, Sophomore classes will be tomor­smelly sewer discovered hunks of row, 9 a.m.-6 p.m. in each of the Sinclair's body and pieces of two dorms. othercadavers last Wednesday at an­Regarding the freeze referendum, other house in nearby Muswell Hill. Beth Tighe, vice president tor Thursday, police expanded the academic affairs, said, "We should be search to the Cricklewood address, proud." Tighe noted that Saint where he used to li\·e. Mary's is the first Catholic college 





The Observer Monday, February 14, 1983 -page 4 
Without portfolio 

Sharon to remain in Cabinet 

Sibu, afour-year-old orangutan, looks up anxious~y as Pat Sass, seniorkeeperat Chicago's Lincoln Park Children's Zoo, offers him a raisin during a pre-Valentine's Daypar~}' and tea on Friday. Sibu was one of the simian guests at the party who was served cake, yogurt and candy-special Valentine's Day treats. ( AP Photo) 
Nickie's Welcomes You 928 N. Eddy St., Phone 234· 7612 Hours: OPEN 11A.M. DAILY (EXCEPT SUNDAYS) M-TV IN STEREO A 
Mon ·PITCHER Night 
A_ 
AnyTime
2.25 ALL NIGHT 
Tues. -Little Kings Night 
IICKE~~rs NICKlE's
2.$1.00 ALL NIGHT 
SPECIAL
Wed. -IMPORTED BEER NIGHT 1 ALL BRANDS $1.00 ALL NIGHT !2 lb. Burger Thurs.-LADIES NIGHT 12 oz. Fmsted Mug ALL WELL MIXED DRINKS Fries or Onion Rings 75 cents ALL NIGHT $3.75 HAPPY HOUR 4 · 8:00 daily 


CORBY's "Valentine's Oay SpE~ctal" 
St. Val.enttne' s Oay paRty! ·~ Spm-3am (~ StRaWBeRRY maRqaRttas ..... $1.00 12oz. 0Rat=ts ......................... $.60 
.:3 
~ 
SponsoR€b BY th€ 
, , 
women o~ St. 1maRy s, 
JERUSALE:vl ( AP) -Tht: Israeli Cabint:t accepted Ariel Sharon's resignation as ddense minister yes­terday but retained him as a minister without portfolio, prompting op­position charges that the decision detkd the Beirut ma.ssacrt: commis­sion's recommendations. 
Prime Minister Menachem Begin will take ovt:r the Defense Ministry tt:mporarily afit:r Israel's Parliament, tht: Knesset, approves the rt:shuffie today or tomorrow, Cabinet Secretary Dan Meridlor announced. 
Cabinet ministers belonging to tht: factions in Begin's ruling coali­tion said that keeping Sharon in the Cabinet avoidt:d the nt:t:d for early elections. 
But opposition partks protested that the reshuftk of portfolios dis­regarded the inquiry commission's intt:ntion that Sharon leave the Cabint:t. The small Communist Party submitted a no-confldt:nce motion to bt: debated this wet:k, but the governmt:nt is t:xpt:ctt:dto ddeat it. 
Tht: Labor Party, the largt:st op­position group, said it might or­ganizt: public dt:monstrations to put "moral pressurt:" on tht: gon:rn­mt:nt to tire Sharon. 
Tht: inquiry commission chargt:d Sharon with pt:rsonal respon~ihility for failing to forest:e a massacre wht:n ht: ordert:d Lt:hanest: Chris­tian militiamen to mop up Pales­tinian rt:sistance in Bdrut's _Sabra and Chatilla rdugt:t: camps last Sept. I 6-I 8. It suggt:sted he rt:sign or be fired. 
Sharon gavt: Bt:gin his resignation after the Cabinet decided last wet:k, after three t:mergency mt:t:tings, to adopt all the rt:commendations of the Kahan Commission, named after Supreme Court President Yitzhak Kahan who headed the four-month investigation. 
Cabint:t ministt:rs said Begin wanted to replace Sharon with Moshe Arens, Israel's ambassador in Washington, hut nt:edt:d time to ar­range this transition with his coali­tion partnt:rs. 
The Cabinet now has 19 ministers: dght from Ht:rut, tlve Liberals and six from other parties in the coalition.. 
Sharon's rt:signation was a paralyzing setback to the career of the t1amboyant ex-general. But ht: has bounct:d back befort: wht:n he was passt:d 0\Tr for jobs as chief of staff and as ddense minister, and aidt:s say Sharon still wants Israel's top job once Begin rt:tires. 

Astrong backlash ofsympathy for Sharon has swt:pt across Israd, though no polls have been taken to test his popularity since the Kahan rt:port camt: out. Dt:monstrators havt: takt:n to the streets with the motto, "Sharon, tht: peopk are with you." 
Other prott:stt:rs havt: rallied in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv to demand his resignation. The protests turnt:d vioknt last week when a grenade killed an Israeli dt:monstrating against Sharon. 
Reagan administration oftlcials have blamed Sharon for what they considt:r lsrad's tough negotiation stance rt:garding withdrawal from Lebanon and refusal to stop Jt:wish st:ttkmt:nts in the occupied West Bank of tht: Jordan River. 
As minister without portfolio, Sharon is availahk to Bt:gin for spe­cial tasks, prt:~umahly including as­signments that deal with Lebanon or the West Bank. 
Klaus Barbie 

Criminal says he 'only did his job' 
PARIS (AP) -Nazi war criminal 
Klaus Barhit:, known as tht: "Butcher 
of Lyon," said in a television intt:r­
view airt:d yestt:rday that he has for­
gotten his past and the rest of the 
world should forgt:t it too. 
Barbie, head of the Gestapo in 
Lyon from 1942 to 1944, said he was 
only doing his job when he fought 
the French resistance. He is accused 
ofexecuting 4,000 people, torturing 
thousands more and deporting 
7,SOO French Jews to concentration 
camps. 
For those crimes, he was sen­
tenced to dt:ath twice by French 
courts in abst:ntia. He was expelled 
Feb. 5 from Bolivia, wht:re he hid for 
years, and France has charged him 
under a new law for "crimes against 
humanity." The death penalty has 
been abolished, and Barbie faces a 
possible lite st:ntence if convicted 
again. 
He was transft:rrt:d late Saturday 
r~..,.....,.. .............__~·~.......~ 
i COUNSELINE ~ 
1 A new service to tile NO community ~ 1 
239-7793 •i HOURS: 4-9pm Mon.-Thurs. ~ i Starting Date: Wed., Feb. 9, 1983 i \ Counseline is a free, confidential i 
• telephone service that offers [ ~ professsionally taped materials that 1 icover a wide variety of student concerns~ 
~TAPE NO. TITLE i 
{ 1 Friendship Buildi,ng [ 
l7 Dealing with Const1·uctive Criticism 

l -[a Dealing with Anger 1 
1g Understanding Jealousy & [

is Understanding Jeallousy & How to 1 
1 Deal with It [
110 How to Say "No" 1 
[ 16 Becoming Open to Others [ 
118 Dating Skills l 
{ 30 Anxiety & Possible Ways to Cope with It ~ 
l32 How to Deal with L'oneliness [
i33 How to Handle Fea,rs 1 
[ 35 Building Self-Esteem & Confidence [ 

J37 Relaxing Exercises; 1 
[ 38 Coping with Stress [ 

139 Female Sex Role-Changes & Stress 1 
~ 44 Learning to Acc•ept Yourself ~ 
[ 61 What is Therapy & How to Use It i 
183 How to Cope wl1h a Broken Relationship 1 
[ 85 Understanding Grief \ 
l 90 Helping a Friend • 
[ 160 Early Signs of an Alchohol Problem ~ 
1161 Responsible Decisions About Drinking [
i402 Self-Assertiveness J 
[ 431 What is Depression r 
1432 How to Deal with Depression ! 
[ 433 Depression as a life Style ~ 
l 478 Becoming Independent from Parents • 
[ .479 Dealing with Alchoholic Parents [ 
l 491 Suicidal Crisis l
i492 Recognizing Suicidal Potential in Others~ 
~ 493 Helping Someone in a Suicidal Crisis ~ 
i i
[ Counseline is a completely anonymous [ 
1 service offered by the Counseling & ]
i. Psychological Services Center-UNO ~ l For Further Info or Assistance • ~Call C&PSC 239-7a37 between 9-5 ~ 
i ~ 
iL ~
--CLIPANDSAVE-­
............,...~~...................,........~J 
from the Fort Montluc Prison in I.ron to Saint joseph Prison for security reasons. French authorities say it will take up to one yt:ar for prosecutors to prepart: their case against Barbie. 
"I did my duty," Barbk, 69, said in the interview with two Bolivian journalists -conducted on tht: planes that brought him fro111 La Paz to Lyon. The interview was broad­cast yesterday night. 
"I was chief of the anti-resistance group in France ... there were several groups, each with its own work," he said in Spanish. "My par­ticular job was the war against the French resistance." 
Asked about Jean Moulin, a hero of the French resistance in World War II whom Barbie is accused of beating to death personally, Barbie said: "That was part of the war." 
l.ooking for a historic analogy, he said Napoleon was condemned by all of Europe for tyranny but "200 years later, he is made a hero." 
"IfGermany had won the war, the French wouldn't he botht:ring with my case now." 

..I havt: forgottt:n. If they havt: not forgotten, it is their business. I have forgottt:n." 
Barbie rdused to talk specifically about his activitks during the war. "I can't give you details, -10 years have passed, I don't rt:memher any more," he said. 
Aftt:r Barhk arrivt:d,}ustice Minis­In Robert Badinter ordered him in­carceratt:d at the Fort Montluc prison as a symbolic move. Thousands were tortured there during the Nazi occupation. 
But security oftlcials were con­cerned that vt:ngeance-seekers might kill BariJie, and switched him to a more secure location. 
Concern for Barbie's safety arose last wt:ek wht:n the magazine Paris Match published a photograph of guards marching Barbie through the open courtyard of the facility. 
The central courtyard is open and the prison is surrounded by high buildings, suggesting that if a photographer with a long lens could take such a picturt:, a gunman with a telescopic sight could also kill Barbie. 
Reagan considers steps to break deadlock 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan is considering new steps to break the bargaining deadlock with the Soviet Union over U.S. proposals to eliminate medium-range nuclear missiles in Europe, Vice President George Bush said yesterday. 
Bush, who returned Thursday from a seven-nation Europe.m trip, suggested an interim agreement might be the best way to achieve the administration's goal of a total ban on medium-range weapons. 
An interim pact presumably would call for a reduction in the cur­rent Soviet arsenal of missiles aimed at Western Europe, and a cutback in the number of new Pershing II and cruise missiles that the United States is scheduled to begin deploying in NATO countries at the end of this year. 
"He will be making a determina­tion whether we should do some­thing different in order to encourage the Soviets to do what we've asked," Bush said on CBS-TV's "Face the Na­tion." 
He insisted, however, "We are not going to depart from this moral ob­jective, ridding the world, if you will, banishing torever an entire generation ofthest: weapons." 

On another front, Bush said the Cnited States was prepared to do whatever is necessary, along with other countries, to promote the withdrawal of foreign forces from Lebanon. He refused to say if the United States would increase the number ofU.S. troops in Lt:banon. 
On the state of U.S.-lsraeli rela­tions, which have been aggravated by the continued Israeli presence in Lebanon, Bush said, "I do worry about it, frankly. I worry about it very much." He said, however, "l don't see it getting out ofhand." 
The vice president also predicted the administration will reach a com­promise with House Democrats on a jobs and recession-relid package. He added the agreemt:nt probably would call for speeding up the spending of alrt:ady authorized funds "that will impact on those who are out of work today. But there won't be any make-work stuff." 
The Observer Monday, February 14, 1983 --page 5 
Computer competency  
Invasion hits U.K. classrooms  
LONDON (AP)-The computer  two  teachers  to  be trained  at  in­ "!like pushing the buttons and tel­ 
has invaded the British classroom, a  ti.Jrmation  centers  under  a  ling it what to do," said Helen Be­ 
learning revolution that eventually  Microelectronics  Education  ckensale, 9. "A computer can only  
will  affect  every  student  in  the  Program.  do things logically. one simple step  
country's  .3:\,000  elementary  and  The  program  was  extended  to  at a time. If you make a mistake, it  
high schools.  primal')' schools last July. and so tar.  won't understand you."  
"Every secondary school in  the  "",000 of Britain's 2"",000 elementary  At another keyboard, a group dis­ 
Llnited  Kingdom  now  has  at  least  schools have applied for computers,  cu~sed  how  to  have its computer  
one  microcoml)uter," said Michael  Page said.  draw an octagon using as few com­ 
Page of the Department of Educa­ He  estimated  the  2-year-old  mands as possible.  
tion,  "and  in  two  years,  every  program will cost about 5:\8 million  Nine-year-old Brett  Mickelburgh  
primary school will have one."  by 19H-!.  tried telling the machine to move its  
The aim is to make students and  "It's a bright, new development in  pen forward and turn -!5 degrees to  
teachers "computer competent"  - education  computers  bring  the left eight times. A few taps on the  
able  to  use  computers  - and  to  variety and novelty into what can be  keyboard  and  the  octagon  took  
provide  a  versatile  new  teaching  dull," he said.  ~hape.  
tool  while  boosting the  country's  Charles Bake's class at Woodside  "The  octagon  problem  teaches  
burgeoning  microcomputer  in­ Junior School in Croydon. a suburb  the children geometry concepts and  
dustl')'.  I 0 miles south of London, agrees.  logic almost without them knowing  
The  state  Industry  Department  "You can really be creative," said  it," said Bake. "Just in attempting the  
has partially funded one microcom­ 9-year-old  Robert  Morrison,  as  he  problem they have become fluent in  
puter  for  nearly  every  one  of  typed instructions for the computer  handling computer commands and a  
Britain's 6,000 secondary schools.  to  play  back  a  tune  he  and  four  keyboard."  
Tighe, vice-president for academic affairs, were present at last eve­ Page said.  Each school is sending  friends had composed on the screen.  Programs teach a variety of skills,  
ning Board ofGouernance meeting at Saint Marv's. Hoefer asked  he said, not all of them easily tested.  
for the Board's help in reconstructing student goz~ernment. (Photo by Scott Bou•er)  21-gun salute greets  For the class's once-a-week session with the machine, Bake chooses from about :\0 programs including:  
Fire kills 64people  Queen in Jamaica  -Amath drill that adds cars onto a train for right answers and takes them away ti.>r wrong ones;  
in Turin movie theater  KINGSTON, Jamaica (AP) -A red-coated Defense force honor  the queen in Hollywood, with elegantly attired attendants serving  -A game where children iden­tify an unknown animal by asking questions about its charactc.-ristics,  
Tl'RIN, Italy (AP)  -Flames and  Police  did  not  have  the  exact  regiment and band greeted Queen  actors Frank Sinatra, Bob Hope, and  and  
smoke raced through a Turin movie  number of injured,  but said  only  Elizabeth II with a 21-gun salute and  Edward Asner.  - "Adventure,"  game  among  
theater last night, killing 64 people  three  were  hospitalized  and  the  the Jamaican national anthem yes­ Jamaican oflkials say the queen's  computer  buffs,  where  players  
and injuring dozens in the crowd of  others  were  treated and released,  terday as she left an air force jetliner  visit will highlight this Caribbean is­ search for treasure through  a sim­ 
500, Police Chief Antonio Fareillo  with many suffering from smoke in­ to begin a four-day visit.  land's revived economy and provide  ulated maze of tunnels and rooms,  
reported.  halation.  The British queen and her hus­ a potential boost to tourism.  using  special  devices  to  escape  
Police said the fire might have been caused by a short circuit or by fireworks set off as a joke by pranksters celebrating Carnival, which is being observed throughout Italy. They reported a pistol was found on the floor, but said it ap­parently had nothing to do with the blaze.  Officials said that Raimondo Capello, the 51-year-old theater manager, was arrested and charged with manslaughter. They gave no details, but several witnesses claimed some of the 10 exit doors were locked and had to be battered open.  band, Prince Philip, had left chilly London aboard the Royal Air Force jet for the monarch's most extensive tour of the Western Hemisphere since she was crowned in 1952. The month-long trip will include a visit to President Reagan's ranch in Santa Barbara, Calif. On March I, the royal couple will give a dinner  "There is vel')' good will between the people ofjamaica and the queen. The moment she steps on this soil, she will be accepted as the queen of Jamaica," said Sir Florizel Glasspole. After four days here, the royal couple will travel to the Grand Cavman islands. and tly to Acapulco,  monsters and traps.  
The  death  toll  soared  when  Most of the victims were young  aboard the yacht Britannia off the  Mexico,  on  Thursday.  They  will  
firemen found more than 20 bodies  people. The bodies were placed on  California coast for Reagan and his  board the Britannia feb. 22 for a trip  
in a second-flooF bathroom and in  the snow-covered sidewalk outside,  wife,  Nancy,  to  celebrate  the  up the Pacitlc coasts of Mexico and  
rooms used by the management for  and hundreds of people gathered as  Reagan's .31st wedding anniversary.  the l:nited States.  
offices or storage.  parents searched for their children.  London's  tabloid  yesterday  Its first stop in the United States  
Fareillo  had  reported  that  66  Cardinal Anastasio Ballestrero, arch­ devoted its centerfold to an artist's  will be San Diego, where it arrives  
people perished, but he said later  bishop of Turin, arrived and blessed  conception of a Feb. "H dinner ti.>r  Feb. 26.  
two bodies were counted twice.  the bodies.  
Ten die in cable car  
crash in Italian Alps  
CHAMPOLL;,  ITALY  (AP)  polu in the north western province  
Powerful winds ripped three cable  of Hosta, between Italy's frontiers  
cars off their tracks during a blizzard  with France and Switzerland.  
yesterday and dropped  them  l 50  Carabinieri.  Italy's  paramilitarY  
feet onto a mountainside at a fancy  police. hovert:d in two helicopters  
ski  resort.  killing eight adults and  ti.>r  nearly  tlve  hours  to  pull  four  
two children. police said.  people to safer\· from  a fourth  car  
Police  and  rescue  oflkials  said  swinging  wildlv  in  the  dri\·ing  
two others were seriously injured in the accident. Thev said all the dead and injured were Italian. Six skiers died instantlY in the crash; four other~ died of injuries af­ snowstorm. The state-run television network said the rescued people were french and Italian. The crash occurred at the H. I00 foot level of Collt: Sarezza peak.  a: LL  Expires 2/28/82 MEDIUM14"  COUPON MEDIUM 14" CHEESE  m ~ <  
ter rescue squads pulled them out of the snow and two more were listed in serious condition at local hospi­tals. :\1ore than 200 police, tire-lighters and members of ski-borne rescue  rescue authorities said. Oflkers said thev believed a powerful gust of wind blew one of the covered egg-shaped cars on· the cable. It then collided with the next car climbing the mountainside  CHEESE PIZZA With addl. ingred. and liter of  PIZZA $4.71 Extra ingredients  
squads raced to the scene of the crash ncar the alpine slope at Cham­ tracks and it in turn dragged down a third.  ACCOLA • I •7  $.62  
• • Hinckley•  >a:  10 PERCENT OFF ANYTIME WITH NO COUPON, STUDENT J.D. REQUIRED' .  ., ~  
continuedji·om page I as a mai,;eshilt noost· in an unsuc­cesstul suicidt: trv in the Fort \leade. \hi.. cell where he was being held awaiting trial. In a report last August to tht: trial  who ··thin!,;~ daih about killing (actress )Jodie Fo~ter." "I don't n~:cessarilv aree with their opinion." Hinckley said shortly bct(Jre Parker ordered him contlned indctlnitcly to the mental hospital.  w ~ ~  ltnlislt llrince1li55tria 272-8030 ·'  m ~ ~  
judge. Harrington hiarrists at St.  D. Parker. Elizabeths  p~~-c­said  During the trial. psychiatrists hired lw the detense said HinckleY  1 W  t8061 SOUTH BEND AVE.  ~  
llincklcv is "at the preseryt time and will in the reasonable future he dan­ had a one-side lovt: afl.air with \1iss Foster and had hoped the shooting  1f2 Block west of Ironwood on State Road 23 in South Bend  <  
gerous to himselfand others."  of the president would win her at­ 
They described Hinckley as an "unpredictably dangerous person"  tention and hring the pair a "magical union."  AH3AI130 33H.:I  AH3AI130 33H:I  


Monday, February 14, 1983 -page 6
The Observer 


~ Bruct'l: Violin Concerto No. 1 
~ Bach: Double Violln COncerto 
inD minor Beethoven: '""'~='" David & Igor Oistrol<ti 
PIANO=cc= SONATAS -
Kempff
PRIUIIIEiiE 

Choose From Deutsche Crammophon's createst Artists and Repertoire Including ... 
Albums & cassettes 
DEUTSCHE GRAMMDPHON/PRIVILEGE MKTD. BY POLYGRAM 
Beethoven: ~~ Symphony No. 7 Sir Colin Davis 
r I 
•J• 
PHILIPS 
r I 
•J· 
r T 
rJ• 
r I 
'rJ• 
r I r II 
""''•J· 
e 
!itii."';,;.l 

Brahms: e 
Symphony No. 4 Haitink 
Concertgebouw 
Albums & cassettes 

Also From Sequenza 1Philips Are ... 
DVORAKITCHAIKOVSKY: Cello Concertos -Walevska WACiNER: The creat Choruses -Bayreuth Festival MOZART: Piano concertos 21 & 26-Haebler, Rowicki MOZART IN CHELSEA· Divertimenti & contradances 
Marriner1Academy PROIKOFIEV: "Romeo and Juliet" Highlights -de waart STRAVINSKY: "Orpheus" & "JE~U de cartes"-Colin Davis 
CHOPIN: Piano sonatas 2& 3 Tamas vasary 
HAYDN: Symphonies 
NOS.94&101 
Richter1Berlin Philharmonic 
MOZART: Symphonies 29& 33 Karajan 1Berlin Philharmonic 
SCHUBERT: "Death & The Maiden" Quartet Amadeus Quartet 
SCHUBERT: Piano sonatas Kempff 
STRAUSS: Don Quixote Fournier I Karajan 1 Berlin Philharmonic 

HANDEL WATER MUSIC 
••COMPLETE MUNCHINGER 
Albums & cassettes 
8.49 
LONDON RECORDS MKTD BY POLYGRAM 

SEOUENZA I PHIUPS MKTD. BY POLYGRAM 

••.And Many More From Which To Choose! 
AVAILABLE AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
-----~--------~--..........~-----~­
Editorials 
Monday, February 14, 1983 -page 7 
The real election issues 
Dillonites supported one of their own Thursday. 
Dillon Hall single-handedly elected Dave McAvoy to the Student Senate. thanks to its 271-1 1 support of their favorite son over Alison Yurko. 
Tom Mowle 
Current Line 

Senate elections tend to be personality con­tests rather than issue-related because most students perceive the senator as an ineffective t1gurehead with very little power to imple­ment any real changes. Dillon and this elec­tion are the most prominent examples of this tendency. Whie both candidates claimed to emphasize the issues, each said the other seemed to base his or her candidacy on per· sonal matters. 
Both pro-and anti·Dillon sentiment was present in the election. McAvoy, and some in Pangborn, Morrissey, and Howard, felt his being from Dillon may have hurt him as much as it helped him. I think that is exaggerated ­he was not hurt 260 votes' worth -but it is true enough to say it hurt McAvoy enough to cost him Howard or Badin, leaving him with an actual win only in I3illon. 
Dillonites have a lot ofspirit. That is general knowledge throughout the campus. Ignoring the value of such (blind') support, and also the value ofbeing able to campaign at the Hall Mass, it is worth noting that had Lyons given Yurko the same support (96.1 percent of a ~5.8 percent turnout), she would have won the election by a sizable margin. 
But Lyons didn't rally around Yurko for two major reasons. She moved to Lyons from Lewis this semester, so she is not that well known there. Lyons was almost just another South Quad dorm for her, in terms of natural support. In addition, those I have spoken to 
mentioned  that  Lyonites tend  to  be  more  
independent-minded  than  the  residents  of  
most other dorms.  

MeAvoy stated that his support in other dorms shows that he was indeed a viable can­didate, and that he would not have had the support of Dillon had this not been so. This may be true, but that logic also works the other way; Yurko's even stronger support in the other dorms would seem to indicate that she was an even better candidate. Also, I have spoken to more Dillonites who had no idea 

who Dave McAvoy was, but voted tor him be­cause he was from Dillon, than I have to Oil· lonites who voted for him because they had heard both candidates and felt he was the bet­ter choice. 
Campaigning for the run-off Wednesday night, Yurko mentioned that T McAvoy would have Dillon's overwhelming support and that she would need a lot of help from the other dorms to overcome that deficit. Some of McAvoy's campaign workers felt she was trying to use his being from Dillon against him, emphasizing the hall rivalries over the real issues. 
Those I spoke to in Howard said they believed Yurko was not actively using the D!l· Jon connection against MeA voy. She was merely aftlrming a fact which was public knowledge and asking for help. While she did not emphasize the issues as much at this time, Yurko said this was because this was her second campaign trip, and most of the people already knew what she stood for. 
In any case, tor many people, the election came down to whether they would vote for a person from Dillon, and whether they would vote tor a female candidate. The campaign was trivialized to this extent because students have little faith in the Senate's ability to ac­complish its goals. 
The Senate's usual method of action seems to be to ask the Administration for permission to look into an issue, and then make recom­mendations to the Administration on it. In other words, the Senate has very little actual power, and the students know it. 
Whether this condition will change or not is up to the present senators and the Ad· ministration. A lot will depend on the Ad· ministration's reception of the PACE repdrt reccommendations. Ifthey are given as much consideration as the teacher evaluation reports, the Senate will continue to lack the enthusiastic support of the students. 
On the other hand, ifthe Senate now proves that it can be effective, the elections may in fact become truly issue-related rather than personality contests. When this happens, the "home-dorm advantage" will no longer be a crucial part ofan election. 
Dave McAvoy is in the Student Senate be· cause Dillon's support of him offset the other dorms' support of Alison Yurko. While both had excellent platforms, the District 3 elec· tion did not turn on issues. And until the Senate proves its effectiveness, elections will continue to be dedided by matters irrelevant to the actual virtues ofeach candidate. 
Common cents and academic credibility 
We must excel as a university in every• sense ofthe word ... 
That is the t1rst recommendation in Notre Dame's recently completed PACE report. It is a noble, if not unsurprising, way to initiate the 
RandyFahs 
Monday Analysis 

goals that the University has set for its future. These goals include the upgrading, strengthening, and revising of nearly every major area, as well as the experimentation of new and untried ideas. 
These changes will come gradually, but 
there is one area which can't afford to wait. Its 
deficiency prevents many highly qualified and 
creative people from coming to Notre Dame. 
This area is Financial Aid ...that's right, Finan· cia! Aid. It may not be as well-publicized or as glamorous as issues like a new student center or the signing ofa top football recruit, but it is far more important to Notre Dame's emer· gence as a truly great university. 
For the majority of the students at Notre Dame, rising college expenses and inadequate t1nacial aid means that mom and dad will have to dig deeper into their pockets, or that we'll have to work harder and spend less during the summer. In other words, things will be a little tougher on the old wallet, but most of us will pull through without serious difficulty. 
For some people though, things won't work out as well. Financial reasons will cause some people to leave the University, turn down ac· ceptances, or fail to even fill out an applica­tion. It is tragic that many people will not graduate from Notre Dame because of their inability to pay the bill. 

Money should never be the overriding con­cern in someone's education. but we all know that this is only a pipe dream. Money can and will be major factor in the choice ofwhere to go to college. It might seem to be an obvious point, but you can't maintain your credibility as an academic institution if money is a major factor in who gets an education. 
The PACE report seeks to triple the frac· tion of the endowment tor undergraduate s udent aid by 1990. That's wonderful for 1990, but what about here and now in 19H:P The PACE report also states, "It is further recom· mended that the present policy of using only endowment income tor financial aid be con· tinued." In other words, Notre Dame will oot be increasing financial aid in the present. 
We've all heard about Notre Dame's more than S200 million endowment fund. I ask why they aren't willing to spend part of it in the short run until suftkient t1nancial aid resources art: developed? It may be a bad short term use of the money from a business standpoint, but I would point out that the lar· gest chunk of the endowment came from Notre Dame alumni. This means that in the long run, investments in future alumni are the soundest business decisions that Notre Dame could evet make. 
If just one potential student fails to come to Notre Dame (or just one existing student leaves before completing a degree) fi.Jr t1nan· cia! reasons, then the L'niversity has failed in its primary goal. How can Notre Dame excel as a university in the fullest sense of the word if we don't have the best possible student body? I guess that common sense in academic credibility boils down to dollars and cent~ in the student body. 
P.O. BoxQ 

Social Concerns Series continues 
DearEditor: 
Two films in the Social Concerns Series highlight the tragic side ofsocial conflicts in Latin America, and remind us of the destructive policies of the United States in that area of the world. Roses in December is a sensitive documentary that will be shown tonight. State of Siege is a political thriller that will be shown on Feb. l 5 and 16 at the Center for Social Concerns. The former is 
concerned about compassion, the latter about justice. These two films provide an ominous destraction from our immediate problems of unemployment. crime, and nuclear rivalry. 
Roses in December was originally produced for TV and examines the last days and death ofJean Donovan, one of the four missionaries murdered in El Salvador on Dec. 2, 1980. It is an extraordinary story of human compassion and religious commit· ment in the face of violence and death. The four women were assaulted in various ways and shot by tlve members of the Salvadoran security forces. According to reliable tes­timony, they acted on orders. No one seriously expects a fair trial for the mur­derers. Klaus Barbie would be safe there. The diary and death of Donovan are as elo· quent as all the reports of the congressional delegations that recently visited that country. 
Thomas Enders, Assistant L:ndersecretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, admitted betore a Senate subcommittee that American foreign policy in the area is mightily confused. Quite so. By next year we will have given a billion dollars in aid and arms to the military rulers of El Salvador, much of which seems to reach the hands of the insurgents. 
The State Department and Congress play games over the certification ofhuman rights when all military and economic aid should be immediately suspended until the specit1c conditions tor negotiations are met by all parties. 

Roses in December may not shed new light on the political content of these con· tlicts but it represents a quiet and irresis· table testimony to human dignity in contrast to immoral policies and irresponsible power. 
State ofSiege recalls the execution of Dan Mitrione, and AID offician sent to instruct the Uruguayan police in torture and repres­sion, a short time before the coup of 1973. The tllm has a visceral journalistic im­mediacy, being itselfa kind ofpolitical act. It opens with much tension and excitement, and some humor, but is then transformed in· to a complex political argument. The outline of Unitetl States foreign policy in Latin America is reconstructed piece by piece through the testimony of Mitrione to his ac· cusers. This reconstruction does not appear to be as dramatic today as it was in 1973 when the tllm was tlrst released. Yet, we know that Uruguay suffered more devasta­
tion and violence from ib military rules than did Brazil, Argentina, and Chile. People were eliminated on the slightest pretext. Even now, many parts of :\tontevideo an: neglected, with little of the life and youthful spirit that once made the city so attractive. 
While State ofSiege may show that politi­cal power without justice is self-destructive, Roses in December suggests that however degraded and disintegrated a society has become, it can still be redeemed by its com· passionate martyrs. 
Claude Pomerleau, CSC 

Editors note: Roses in December will be shown tonight at the Centerfor Social Con· cerns at 7 and 9:30p.m. Refreshments and discussion led by Kathleen Weigert willfol· low each showing. State of Siege will be shown Tuesday and Thursday at the Center at7 and 9:30p.m. Refreshments willfollow all showings and discussion led by Father Pomerleau will follow the 9:30 p.m. showings each night. 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Satre Dame, IN 46556 

Editor-in-Chief. ............................. Michael Monk Business Manager.............................Tony Aiello
Tbe Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Mr ;ager...........................Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ..................... joseph.Musumeci
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) ...39-5303 

The Observer Monday, February 14, 1983 -page 8 
r~
" ;•. 

~.-. 
I 
l ~ 
HELP SEND THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME TRACK TEAM TO THE SUNSHINE RELAYS 
.c-~"~ 
.. 
,, 
$1.CK> donation for every pizza sold 
YOU CAN DEMONSTRATE YOUR SUPPORT 
When you present this $1.00 contribution certificate along with your purchase of any pizza from Domino's between February 14, 1983 through February 27, 1983, Domino's Pizza will donate $1.00, in your name, to the University of Notre Dame Track Team to help send them to the 1983: Sunshine Relays. 
Your name will appear in the March 11, 1983 publication of the Notre Dame Observer as a supporter of the track team. 
i/ t!' 
::...-.·
,, 
~ 
~\" .. .~· 
:;-:·· 

-. ::.:·...... .:.·~-~.~-t~L~·).· -~~·.:~:8·;;~~../·;...Wf!i/#{~::· .:;::.·::.:-" .. ·.· . 
Domino's Pizza wil donate $1 .00 for every Fast, Free Delivery contribution coupon 1835 South Bend Ave. received toward sending Phone: 277-2151 University of Notre Dame athletes to the Domino's Pizza Relays, an NCAA-sanctioned track and field event held every March in Tallahassee, Florida. In addition to the oppor­tunity t6 participate in a national competition, top performers will receive a $500.00 scholarship. Drivers carry under $20.00 Limited delivery area. 
©1983 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 

r----------------------,I TO SHOW.MY SUPPORT... $II ~ COHtrrmRI BUT I 0 N ~ 
I To help send the Notre Dame Track Team to I the 1983 Sunshine Relays. : (only 1 contribution or coupon per pizza) ; 
Enter my name as a supporter of the I : University of Notre Dame Track Team. 1 I (Please print your name as you want it to I I appear). 1 
Name of I
I1 ~
Contributor 
I $1 Contribution can only be made between I 1.. 2-14-83and2-27-83 
J 

~---------------------­
----....
----~~-----------­
···························~····················································
SH0 we__ Febru~ary14,~1983~page9
iSiiiiiiEiiiiii.'~~Monda~y, 
Senrching for thnt perfect vnlentine 
W
ell, Valentine's Day is finally here. 
We've been expecting it for some time now, 

ever since the bookstore replaced all the Christmas 
cards on its shelves with valentines and heart-shaped 
boxes ofcandy. The second day ofJanuary was an 
excuse forK-Mart to sell the same products as 
Valentine's Day specials instead ofas New Year's Day 
bargains. 
And every year it's the same; after today come St. Patrick's Day and April Fool's Day specials, and after that comes all the Fourth ofJuly hype, followed by all the leftover hot dog buns and six-packs of Like Cola going on sale tor Labor Day weekend celebrations. The day af­ter Labor Day the store windows are covered with 
orange and black as Halloween aperoaches with 
marc Ramirez 
features 

Thanksgiving right behind it. Even before Thanksgiving arrives, the Christmas trees are up and Santa is riding a Norelco razor across your television screen, and as soon as he's gone, Sears begins its Everything-You­Wanted-But-Couldn't-Get-For-Christmas sale. Finally, liquor stores have a field day with their NewYear's'Day 
specials, and then it starts all over again. 
Or had you noticed that already? 
I ventured into the bookstore a few. days ago to pur­chase valentine~. and I didn't have to look too hard to figure out where they were. The crowd looked like the 
12:15 lunch lines at the dining hall. 
Most of the mob centered around the section tilled 
with valentines directed toward friends and 
"sweethearts." I stood behind the crowd while trying to 
decide what exactly I needed. 
First of all, I wanted to send one to my sister, so I made my move toward the section of family-oriented cards. It wasn't verv crowded, and I soon discovered the reason why. Th.ey had five different "Dad" cards, and all were corny. There were four different selections for grandparents, but they all had ducks and bunnies on the front and cute little rhymes inside. IfI were about ten years younger l might have thought about buying one of them. 
The "Sister" cards were all to "A Sister and Her Fami­ly". My sister, being only sixteen years ofage, really hasn't gotten the chance to acquire a family as ofyet, much less a husband. 
The brother cards were the same way. My brothe.r is 
ten years old and I couldn't see myselfsending him a 
card that said, "What is a Brother?" 
I couldn't believe the overflow of"Son" and "Daughter" cards the bookstore carried. That took some ingenious marketing decision-making. How many ofus really have sons and daughters at this point in our lives, not to mention sons and daughters who are old enough to read the cards we buy them? 
Well, you never know, I guess. 
Alii wanted were cards for my two sisters, my brother, my grandparents, and a couple offemale friends at home. But what did I get? Lots offancy little 
. categorized markers that conveniently advertised the wide selection available there in the bookstore. They had everything but what I wanted. There was "Mom" and "Dad" and "Mom and Dad" and even "Religious Mother." There seemed to be no category for "Religious Father," however. Then there was "Sister and Her Family," "Brother and His Family," "Son," "Dallghter," "From Your Secret Pal," and my favorite category to hate, "Across the Miles." Try as I might, I couldn't find categories for "Lassie and her Litter," "From Your Worst Enemy," "To a Spe­cial Maid," "Acros_s the Quad," or "To Your Illegitimate Unborn Child." They seemed to have everything else. I ended up buying a whole lot ofArgus cards that forced me to write my own message on the inside. If there's any moral to the story (besides prices not being the only thing for which you can't depend on the bookstore), I guess it's that it is better to write what you want to say to somebody rather than try to find a card that will say it for you. Finally, I want to wish a Happy Valentine's Day to cer­tain people for whom the bookstore didn't have categories. To My Roommate. Thanks for t1nally getting around to setting the turntable up. To My Fan Club From Alumni. Geez, guys, I thought you had forgotten me. To ATrio ofBP Roomies. The flowers are still alive. If God had meant for us to walk everywhere, He wouldn't ·have allowed us to invent cars. To My Fellow NBA Coaches. Almost halfway through regular season. Milwaukee will be back. To The Assistant Features Editor. Don't worry about the mix-up. 
And finally, since I'm running on a delayed schedule, to Everyone Else Who Reads This, Especially The Quad at Lyons, The Moore Sisters, Chris Fraser, and Fr. Gene: Happy Valentine's Day. 
ffiATCHGIRL lights up stnge 

T
he Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre opened their 1983 season for a small but enthusiastic crowd. The event was the Dance Theatre's recital, a full length ballet adapted from the Hans Christian An­derson fairy tale, The Little Match Girl Ihe production was 
Angelo Adamson 
dance review 

choreographed by Professor Debra Stahl, who chose music by Corelli, Gounod, Haydn, Kabalevsky, Khac­haurian, Paganini, Rossini, Saint­Saens, and Vivaldi to accompany the ensemble. 
The tale revolves around a poor matchgirl who freezes to death in the streets on New Year's Eve. To keep warm, she lights matches. The flame produces various visions. The death ofthe matchgirl, and in fact, the entire tragedy, was handled ta-stefully; the ballet is det1nitely suitable for children. 
Mary Scheiber dances the title role ofthe matchgirl. Scheiber has matured as a performer, and handles the part competently. The ballet opens as she wanders in the streets amidst the townfolk, trying to peddle her matches. She meets with no success. Children, energetkally played by Molly Walsh, Collet>n Dwyer and Denise Gagnon, romp spiritedly through the crowd. The crowd fades away leaving the matchgiri alone. She strikes one of 
her unsold matches and then anoth­er, to warm herself. The action provides one ofthe notable special 
effects ofthe production -the 
match tip lights up! The girl has a vi­sion ofchildren around a stove and ofa family at table. 
After intermission, the matchgirl envisions a Christmas scene. This scene is the climax ofthe ballet. Car­mela Esposito bounds across the stage as a sprightly jack-in-the-box -her performance is to be noted. Other outstanding contributions in­clude the soldiers, Kara Amis and Charles Dobson]r. whose pas de deux produced oohs and aahs from the audience. Dobson's partnering was strong. Amis experienced a wobble or two, hut her stage 
presence carried her through. 
The highlight ofthe evening came with the pas de trois for the three ballerina dolls, who doubled as an­gels later, for a truly celestial perfor­mance, danced by Barbara Cosgrove, Maureen Meagher and Jennifer Ferrick. Technically strong, these women demonstrated some of the best ballet seen in this region recently. Maureen Meagher, always a favorite, sparkled. 
The t1nal scene, in which the matchgirl sees her grandmother and joins her in heaven, contains the final special effect -a black sky t1lled with stars. 
The production was not without 
, its flaws: the strength of the special effects was diminished by such elementary problems as a scr .im that was not rendered opaque enough to conceal dancers getting into place; there were long silent gaps in the taped music that left both performer and audience uncomfortable; in the first scene, there was a marked in­congruity in one villager carrying Christmas packages on New Year's Eve. Choreographically, there were a few weaknesses: the openingscene was filled with unmotivated entrances and exits (solved in the second act by leaving all dancers on stage}; several solos seemed incom­patible with the music selected to accompany them; many mime sec­tions tended towards the melodramatic. Overall, however, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's students·of the Dance Theatre presented a fine eve­ning. Their hard work was evident, and they deserved the applause and kudos they received. 

Time-worn formulns 
T
he old man's familiar voice descended from the altar, though some ofits old force had apparently been drained during his recent stay in the hospital. 
But his oratorical style had not changed -he still spoke slowly in 
the pious, yet officious tones one might expect ofan auxiliary bishop 
ofa large diocese. In other words, he was still boring. 
As he droned on at this New Year's Mass, I reminded myselfoc­casionally that l had not come to be entertained. Not that I had come for any higher purpose: I attende~ mainly because my father would not have allowed my absence. 
My girlfriend was visiting, and ifshe went, Iwent-at least, that's the way it would have been in the Church as my father knew it. And so that's how it would be in the Church as he brought it to his children. 
Bruce Oakley 
out on a limb 

At a Mass attended out ofa sense offamily responsibility, the last thing I needed was a celebrant whose sermons harked back to the days ofNathaniel Hawthorne -vacant, doctrinal rhetoric tempered with all the worst offire and brimstone. 
Boredby the bishop, !looked around the church where my faith was formed and lost, at the followers ofthe faith that hadbeen mine. Most ofthem were old men and women, repeating formulas they had learned in Latin generations ago. 
God knows if they understood the new Mass, or if they even un­
derstood why they continued to go to Mass. 
One or two young couples also were present, the cries oftheir 
babies occasionally competing with the bishop's monotone. 
One little toddler caught my eye just as the bishop began hisser­
mon. The boy sat to my right, one pew ahead ofme, and had perhaps 
the winningest smile in all ofcreation (as if any child younger than 
three could have anything other than a winning smile). 
He stared at me, and I smiled back at him, which he seemed to 
think was the grandest thing. He chuckled and his blue eyes danced, 
and l wanted more than anything to know how to make my eyes 
twinkle to let him know that, right then and there, I loved him more 
than anything on Earth. 

The voice tumbling from the lectern was going on about how God's grace, freely given, is necessary for the salvation ofour immor­tal ... 
Just then, the child offered me his comic book. God knows if the 
bishop would ever understand more ofGod's grace, freely given, 
than that boy demonstrated then. 

I felt sorry for all those people, echoing tormulas without vitality. I wanted to put the child on the lectern and let his unspoiled joy speak ofgrace in vibrant tones. His mother had other ideas, though, and grabbed the boy before he could wander across the pew to present the book to me. 
The boy started to cry, and l felt a twinge ofguilt at having started 
the whole thing. But then he discovered that if he hid behind his 
mother and I looked away once in a while, we could have a mar­
velous game ofpeek-a-boo. His frown. and my guilt disappeared to­
gether, never to be found. 
The Mass went on without us. 

But at Communion, the young couple took their evidence of 
God's grace out ofthe church, leaving me alone to search for faith in 
time-worn formulas. 

The child no longer dominating my attention, another voice in 
competition with the bishop's intruded on my consciousness. An old 
woman, no longer in full possession of her faculties, turned and 
asked her husband if it was time to leave yet. 
She had been asking the same question throughout the Mass, 
every time the participants stood up. The man, with infinite patience 
and understanding, quietly told her to wait each time. 
l envied the man tor his continuing devotion to his wife, and for 
his endless patience. 

The Mass mercifully came to a close. The bishop gave his blessing; 
the woman turned to her husband and posed her question one more 
time. This time, he took her arm and escorted her out ofthe church. 
Formulas repeated endlessly, seemingly without life, may be 
heard after all. 
God knows. 

smetd 


The Observer Monday, February 14, 1983 page 10 

The Observer will accept classifteds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. classifteds to appear tn the next issue must be received by 3 p.m. the business day pnor to tnsertion. All classtfteds must be prepatd. 
etther in person or through the mail. 
Classifieds 

Julie To MATT STOLWYK, You re across an ocean, so far away. Dan and Bob. 
Excuse me Str, S1r,

I hope the Revue was JUst the frrst of many Happy Valentines Day! Learn1ng about htstoncal places From 2 dipper lovers to two others 
Rumor has 1t that rt s Valentines Day
NOTICES 

enjoyable t1mes together Happy S1gned. I ve stayed here, and mtss you more ev·ry Happy V.D. Was 1! really worth 1t? We 
Dtd you thtnk I was too tar away?

Valenllne·s Day Wrshmg to be Nottced day; thought so London has Toblerone, and Btg Ben too! 
But a sm1le appears and my pulse races But somethtng ts mtsstng Could 1t be 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 ln anttctpatton of that heaven, Hey BOZO, 
you???MICHAEL--SOMEBODY LOVES YOU IN JPO When we meet agatn on May twenty­Congrats Mr CPAI E W IS ok but God Love, Growtng tn EuropeTYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 seven made P.W. No.1 Happy Valentines Day. 
DENVER' I LOVE YOU KATHLEEN I love EWE a bushel and a PECK' 

Happy Valentines Day!I Happy Valentines Day Counselor Love, Ugly_ Duckling Rent-A-Car, Friday G J. Love. Brown Eyed Gtrl L1sa ROSES ARE RED noon til Monday noon $29.95 includes Roses are Red 
VIOLES ARE BLUE 150 free miles. Sales tax & insurance And heari.s are Prnk 
ONIONS FOR LUNCH? exlra. Phone Rob lor reservations 259-Thus 1ts on thiS Day MAUREEN, HAPPY BIRTHDAY to sem1nanan Tod T Mom Shary, 
CANT WAIT TO KISS YOU' 8459. Of you I Thmk HERES SOME ADVERTISING FOR Who on h1s 20th would love to make Happy Btrthday and Valentines Day· 
HAPPY VALENTINES BOBBYWhat comes to Mmd YOU HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. whopee Don't do anythtng we wouldn t do Love, 
CASIRGES TYPING Is the matches I F1nd CAREER COUNSELOR You gtrls could make hrm come al1ve L1sa and C1ndy Jack1e Boggs Remrndmg me of what we ve Done By d1almg 239-7735 684-8793 The good trmes spent m the snow and And ask for the Valentmes Day Baby 
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO LUCY. 
Sun TO THE GHOST OF TIM NEELY­

To the Pessimist'" 117 Cavanaugh. 
JULIE & MIKE. LOVE FROM MOM, DAD 

011. grasshoppers. bubbles,-and we You were a great destgn edrtor Happy V-day Mark, 
& SHEILA. LYONS HALL FOODSALES DELIVERS F1ll my m1nd to the Nth Degree Happy Valentlne·s Day! BILLY G llove you more than I can say--It Love Marn1e FRESH THICK CRUST PIZZA TO ALL And then when I recall the idea of Day Kathy gets easter every day!! 
Tom OF SOUTH QUAD. PRICES CAN'T BE One 
To the guy who has all he can handle 

BEAT. CALL x1853 know numbers have stopped or had Its V-Day and Been gettmg calls 
for Valentines Day-ME! I love you verynever begun HEY GIRLS' Open new DOORS to your KIM IS Walling for a BRUSH of REAL From whom rve no guess 
much Need nde to St Lou1s 2/17 or 2/18. Laura soc1al l1fe VISit the MORRISON HOTEL romance Could 1! be you 
Happy Valentines Day

4432 at 129 Zahm For reservations, call8905 CHRIS IS PENN-ed 1n for a REAL man SecretS S? 
Love AdeleMy dearest Karlene. my beloved LJ IS thorny for a flighty affair KS Valentine of all ages. my whole life •s a b1g JAMIE ENGELS, If you really have and yaa fat zero wrthout you Wrll you marry me? ·PERCEPTIVE PERCEPTIONS., You d KATHY IS ready, but w111 her phone ever Shirley

Love, M K know I d like lo hear from you HAPPY nng?! TO MY LITTLE IRISHMAN, 
Happy SAINT Valentine's Day!!!

LOST/FOUND Love
VALENTINES DAY! Every look Every smrle Every Chns, Gene, and J1m lyd1a, 
touch I fall 1n love w1th you all over 
two office angels

Hope you all have a great Valentme s as I search my vocabulary agatn LOSTIIII NOTRE DAME class nng A Day! Call us tf you have any fun tdeas for words to rhyme, Love your fatr Englrsh Ma1den 
Laune 

GOLD lad1es d1nner nng, w1th a GOLD Tom and Sandy does your tmpattence .ncrease
My turn th1s year Happy V-Day I love Happy Valentines Day to stone lnscnpt1on on tnstde ts --B B.F ·a4 wtth the passtng t1me? To the GREATEST B1g Bro.
you Cara Bnan 
--If found please call BRIDGET at 8565. well at least l tned and Thanks so much for all your Jove & Tracy or JIM at 3274 Or come by 325 Lew1s or DonO: Without further delay-fnendshlp, thiS year Especially last 
Mary Ann 216 Keenan Happy Valent1ne s Day' have a great time on xour weekend and through these tough limes 
MynamPlease help!! THANK YOU!! Tom 21st btrthdayll love always, 
Hey. Toledo-Meltssa 
happy valentines day too! Your av Ill sts
Frankly, I d watch MASH anywhere w1th Tnsh lost gold se1ko quartz watch poss1bly leh you. l"ve enjoyed our love. J D Srx of the greatest gtrls around! 
travels these last 1n locker room at the Rock on 2/4/83 If Hey Staffers! 
few months the early days 1n NYC. the 

found, please call K1m at 277-7401 Happy Valentines Day! Love you all! John
fragrant wastedumps of Jersey. To all The Observer's bleed1ng hearts Tonr Job Bank It will be forever and a dayI
(hmmm I can., seem to remember D1d you go to a NEW WAVE PARTY 1n the Job opentng at Wtlltams Home Center tn KAN
much about the JOurney through Pennsyl­HAPPY basement of GRACE on SATURDAY Ntles Part-t1rne work needed 1n sales and
vania ), across the flat expanses of VALENTINES n1ght (2-5-83)? Whose COAT d1d you Carol C. stock For mfo call Deb K1efer at 683·
Ohro, and onward to a certain rustiC town DAY wear home? Somebody took my coat. It ts May lucky pennres always cross your 2700 I d JUSt like to say ha.ve a great day to T1m,
tn northern lnd1ana l d go anywhere Love, (was) a NAVY-BLUE P-COAT w1th forest path, and may you always cross mrne wtth well, as far Job opemng at W1ll1ams Home Center 1n Colleen, and Laura! 
you perhaps as one of your own green MITTENS 1n the sleeve and 1ns1de Happy Valent1ne s Day S B Summer help needed 1n full and love,
Ch1cago anyway Remember IItke you a the m1ttens were my fnends BASKET­Love, part-t1me sales and stock For 1nfo call Kathleen
lot Happy Valent1ne s Day BALL TICKETS (packet B) I NEED my T1m Greg Richard at 291-8500 
Surfer Girl, 

coat-espectally wtth all thts snow. Job openrng at S1nger Gen Ttre, Inc m
Hey, M1ke (the figure-bonehead) Happy Valentines Day'PLEASE call me any t1me day or night-­S B Work needed tn sales on a commis­Ohmtgooooood!!!
Where s the gun? Happy Valentines Lers have more good tJmes rn the next Mary Karen 284-5013 or 284-5194 Dear Awesome Kathy, Day -SIOn bas1s For tnfo call Tom Shanahan at I can't believe rm not here tor few weeks! 
Fos1 Ver Manker 
PLEASE HELP MEI!!!II Happy Valentines Day from Ken Sorry I 291-4616 Valentme·s Day! Sol guess Ill Just have to Love,could not be more romanttc but lam falhng say Happy V-Day'" a personal So thiS IS 

TomM LOST a patr of bnght pmk, plastiC. bat asleep! KK-Do you want to LOSE WEIGHT? ACT for you, Tont, and Tan, and Carol, and glasses near Walsh Hall. Please return xoxoxoxoxox 'rhanks for a great mght of mudp1es, NOW' I'll show you how Call JANET 283-Suzanne, and Shrrley, and thousands of _them. they are qutte valuable to me pmas, J R , and good limes 6808 others, but espec1ally tor two special
Happy dear norm Roses are red Vrolets are blue Thanks Maureen x8008 Wenches, one a sculler of recent acquatn­
Valentines Day Our sox smell better because of you Your 
Happy Valentines Day to the FaiJulous -MW dear Pam, tance and the other the Mother who s 
Cupids LOST On Monday N1ght s 11 30 shuttle, Four 1n 404 P W From Your Secret Ad­Welcome to the b1g N D ! It may not be made 11 all impossible, to whom I can only an Olympus tn a blue case If found mtrers Costa Area, but I hope 11 wtll do You·re the say, See you early Saturdayr please call 284-5487 greatest! 
To all my female co-workers at TheSarah Ham1lton 
Observer:

Ken Doll, Just because you re somewhat love, Mana A temporary Boat Person 
· You are the lovllest and most charmmgLost· Blue Tra1lw1se jacket at Farley party Happy Valentines Day. and I hope you paranotd when 1n the doesn t
rm room on Saturday Found· Blue Tra1IW1se Jacket enJOY your card--tmmensely! Remember, mean that I'm not out to get you anywhere 
Happy Valentines Dayl

nearly Identical Call Frank 1774 I adore surpnses Tom Thanks to all those who supported me 1n Margaret Fosmoe, 
Uncle Ryan 

Love. The Awesom9 One the recent senate electtons, especrally You st1ll owe me a date 
Wh1le true. the above ts gooky-even for

A HANDMADE MONKEY SOCK RAILI TIKKA!II'!II! Bob Gleason. Frank Dawahare, Father Guess who 
STUFFED ELEPHANT WAS LOST There could be no more romantiC ttme Mark. Mary. Jane, Amy, L1z. Celeste, me 
NEAR THE LIBRARY ON 2/7/83/ IT to proclaim to the world that I do, 1ndeed, Susan, Gary. Sp1tey. Joe, Ted, M1ke. Dan 
BELONGS TO ANNIE LIGHT, A FIVE­Gretchen Hot L1ps Luepke, know you and May the Ma1d Marcta Maclennan SMC Class of 86
YEAR-OLD GIRL PLEASE RETURN TO HAPPY VALENTINES DAY!I Love, SCRUT Dave McAvoy Are you sattsfted? 
Here we go aga1n ­734 P E THANX 

Hello from S. Bend' Tom 
CATCH THAT SOPH SPIRIT' Watch out for those Italian men! 
Vote Anne Mane KOLLMAN-Pres

Lost: Santty. If found, return to 3rd Floor Crao Bella, Kathy Doyle, Hey, Mary D How·s 1! go1ng, you tough She1la FLOOD-V P
LaFortune BWO Your Sts OKI!I Enough abuse. Nothing per­little brat? Anyway. best of luck, lets get PERFECT. Kathl HARTWEGER-Sec y
sonal, you know. Just promise not to to the tourney, thanks for everything YOU ARE Gretchen WROBLEWSKI·Tres
LOST-one ttger and one mtnd Do you underestimate us sportswriters. We're HAPPY Valentines Day R 
on Tuesday'know where they are Dt? (No towels HAPPY CUPIG DAY not so bad. Why most of us can even Love please) 3rd Fl Walshltes' talk intelligently about some other M1ke 

things. Need R1de To Connecticut For Spnng DFtv<. Happy Valentines Day Babe' I Very sportingly yours, Break Will Share Usual Please Call Dan know I don·t have to tell you all the th1ngs MikeS. at 6824 Hey North Quad! We all know DILLON 1S
TO THE D.T. "STUDS" YOU MAKE MY 
I d like to. what the heck I cant anyway P.S. Just remember that the back page THROAT AND STOMACH BURNt! the best. out DILLON IS only one dorm.
FOR RENT 

HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, LOVE YOU
(But that so-kay ) Hang '"there sweet1e. is really the front pageI!! JOHN Y & SHIRLEY -Happy 26th. whtle you re a whole QUAD Aren t there neD " thanks for my 21'! I love you! any halls on the North Quad w1th any
ALWAYS, "RED EYE" 

Mary. Mary. qu1te contrary guts? The women of NO and SMC STUDENT RENTAL. 4-BEDROOM GERIANN. How does your garden grow DEAR BETH. COLLEEN. AND VER­BAR MELODY HOUSE. CALL 232-4057. 272-7767 RITA,
I REGRET THAT I HAVE BUT ONE DIN­w1th silver bells and cockle shells BAR MELODY Hey Babe. NER TO GIVE FOR MY VALENTINE' and pretty matds alltn a row BAR MELODY It doesn·t matter tf were on a roll -I love
THANKS FOR BEING SUCH GREAT 4 bdrm furntshed house, near campus ROOMMATES AND FOR MAKING ME you! Happy V-Day
LOVE. ,JOHN More mfo soon On Notre Dame Ave. Good condrtlon. 9 HAPPY VALENTINES DAY. FEEL SO WELCOME HAPPY T ootste Lips 
mo lease $335 per mo. Call 684-0933 Mary D. (Mom), Mary Ellen, Mary the VALENTINES DAY!! LOVE. MAUREEN SJS I LOVE YOU! MTK (local call) PS ANYBODY WANT TO GET A PIZZA
To that lall diStingUished look1ng Secretary, Mary Beth (Schoothie), gentleman (wtth the canservattve shoes) Mary Joan, not to mention Mary Shari Big feet and Racinian:
TONIGHT? 

Approved Off-campus house for rent Fur­who halls -from Hershey My heart IS held (sounds like hawaiian punch), Mary TO LISA AND MARY OF BP When eating all those cream-filled V D nished 823 N.D Ave Call277-3461 Dear Meat-Happy Valentines Day' Love,
captrve m the Tower of London awarttng Debbi, Mary Ther•osa, Mary Jenny, YOU A~E TWO OF THE MOST SENSA­cand1es. watch out! They m1ght dflbble. 
p

your rescue (you handsome prrnce). I Mary Laura, Mary Carrie Mary Lynn, TIONAL WOMEN I KNOW YOU MAKE Love, Cheap Rent & low ut11it1es $235, 1-3 lave and mrss you..sweet pea Maureen Mary Denise (there's a lot who would LONG NIGHTS AT NO BARE-ABLE A happy carrot Bedroom Apt $165-185 off Portage 289-like to), Mary Lisa, Mary Dava, Mary DEAR PAUL ·(ALIAS MAX. PJ, OR HVD 
1687 PASQUERILLA WEST RESIDENTS Diane, and last but not least, Mary Pat. PAULl E). A 'CLOSE FRIEND Don·t forget to vote for W1th ·broadest affections, 
HAPPY VALENTINES DAYII II House 4 bedroom. near NO, $290 permo KATHY KEMP-HALL PRESIDENT Mary Mtke and Mary Mtke LOVE,MAUREEN 
Fall or summer No utilitieS. Phone (319) KATHLEEN DOYLE -HALL VICE­P S We would have sa1d Mary Cathy, but Patt1, Jill. Beth. Kath, LA, Barb. Came. 322-8753 Patty Suzanne love of my l1fe .I can·t hve wtth­
PRESIDENT someone else already dtd Trace, etc Happy V-day to my favonte NISER SPRING, NISER SPRING out you Dum, the Polack and come With
sweethearts! Thanx for be1ng such cut1es Room tor rent. krtchen, laundry pnvrleges. SULLIVAN AND RICARDI, To Mary and Therese YOU SWEET AND DARLING, to me' I hope y'all s day 1s TONS great' 
me and I Will take you away from all thiS tnsanttyMales only. $30/wk. Safe neighborhood I may hate SPORTS. but I love SPORTS To the two best SISters (and moms) YOU SEXY THING TONS of love-L1s P S Sorry y all-I m1ssed 287-0173 aher 4 p.m. ed1tors! Happy Valentines Day! anyone could ask fort the carnation deadline-! hope your

WILL YOU BE MY VALENTINE? 
The 1920's Flapper, News Opt I love you noseha1rs aren·t too disappointed Sem1-Furn 2BdRm Apt near NO Ut111t1es Anne LISA CHOW, LISA CHOW LIKE HEY 
(your cute valenttneJ Raccoon.

Pd Less Gas Ph 272-0261 BUFFALO-BUFFALO-BUFFALO! BABY, LIKE WON'T YOU BE MY To the Dolls of 7-B· -1-!rpe y all's V-day 1s VALENTINE? ARE YOU WOMAN Read between the hnes and bnng
Meet1ng for Buff Club Mon Feb 14, 7PM TONS of tun'Y'all are all sweet­two Rooms W1th Bath All Ut11i!les Pa1d at Farley Hall, Pop Farley Room To UGSL & UGSC-ENOUGH? hearts!TONS of love-LIS 
plenty of small change I LOVE YOU,

Male Preferred Pnvate Entrance 288-(basement)!!! I love you two ugly room1es! 0955 ELLIE. GINGER, SUE & MARY ELLEN ta lap1n
UGSA Goofball MAC-You're something special.
ROSES ARE RED, MY HAIR ISN'T FURN 2 BDR POSS 3 AVAIL. IMMED GRAY Dav1d,
You gotta have your Hemeken·s ~~Mar­Clown NEAR NO CALL 233-7631 WILL YOU BE MY SWEETHEART Thanks tor showmg me the mean1ng of 
guentas -Ya thmk that"s good? -watt Class of 86 Valenunes Dav Here·s to many more!

THIS VALENTINE DAY? LOVE , 1111 Mon. at the Hac1enda vote over tor our lucky clover! 
Love,

If that's not great-Julie Harmon pres SUMMER PROGRAMS -SMC & NO 
Suzanne

VIC P S Coograts 
You·ve got me' Mary Sauer v1ce pres STUDENTS 
Happy V-Day Janet Biegel sec London (May 18-June 17), Rome (June
WANTED 

Love. Theresa Hardy treas 13-July 12). Classes available in Art, Hobert on Tues.. Feb. t 5th Business & Econ, Education, History,
JEFF, Well did you get 11 thiS weekend or 
To all the cast and crew ot Marathon 33: 

Italian, Philosophy, & Music. Organiza· I'd w1sh you all a Happy Valentnes Day.
are you oH to New York, New York? M 
I need a nde or someone to share rent-a­S.M.C Sophomores tional meeting on Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. 
but I have a massacre to go to 

car to Cleveland, weekend of Feb. 18-20. Jeff, Chns, Ruds, Tom. Bn. JD, Scan-Make a chotce you won·t regret! Vote (london) and 8 p.m. (Rome) in 348 Mr. Forbes
Please call Bruce x6256 Thank you. You guys deserve the best' That's why Manion Madeleva. For info, call Prof. A.A. 
p s. hy the way, IS your hte msurance pa1d

you ··have·· us! Karnatz Black (284-4460 or 272-3726). 
up?
MIKE.
Happy V-Day! Saas Thanks for betng responstble to~ me

Kath, Mo. Patty, Peg, All, Stacy. M1chele Nolan TO JENNY, 
on Thursday mght

lor Junior Class Officers Feb. 15t "THE HARD LUCK WOMAN,,. 
It I m go,ng to be .aclive, 1 hope tts wtthDentse
PERSONALS 

MY FAVORITE N.D. ATHLETE: you
To my Essent1al To Anne 1n 217 Reg1na North: I LIKE YOU LOTS! 
Happy VolentiMIS Day!

I never thought 11 was go~ng to happen, In my oprnton, you deserved to w1n Happy Valent1ne s Day More NEIL GORDON, but 11 d1dl I've fallen very much 1n like w1th Keep try1ng-I know you can do 11! By the surpnses awa1t you, for males have thetr
To John Goose ATLAS SI-'RUGGED BUT I WONT you. Here·s to thrs semester! way, Happy Valentines Day! plans
Lucky me to know wonderful you AYN RAND p Love, Maureen TN
love. Anne 
See CLASSIFIEDS, page 11 

Monday, February 14, 1983 -page 11
Sports Brieft 
~~~======~================================= 
lh Tbe rJhsen·er and lbe -lssucioted Press 
Any remaining participants in the men's un-

Jergrad and men·~ grad singlc:s racquetball tournament~ should call the :\YA ofilcc at 239-6100 to report results and keep the tourna­ment mo\·ing. -TIJe Obserz•er 
Open volleyball is beginning. The entry deadline is Tuesday 5 p.m. Because there is a 32-team limit, early signup is en­couraged. The tournament is open to students, faculty, and staff. It is single elimination with three 15-point games per round. The roster minimum b nine players. Entries can be submitted to the NVA office in the ACC. -The Obserz•er 
Interhall indoor track is scheduled for Wednes­day. The tield events will begin at 7:45 and the tirst starting gun for the runners will go off at 8 in the North Dome of the ACC. -The Obserz•er 
The NO wrestling team tinished tifth of 26 teams in the Wheaton Invitational, with Mike Golic (Heavyweight) finish­ing tirst, and Bill Baty ( 167 ) tinishing third. Co-captain Don Heintzel­man ( 1-12) won the award for most pins in the tournament. The team's next match is Saturday against Miami of Ohio and Sienna Heights at the ACC. -The Observer 
The Observer sends its congratulations to Erin Murphy, Saint Mary's College Athletic Director, who was married a week ago yesterday to joe Lorenz. And it's not even spring yet .... -The Obseruer 
Julius Erving scored 11 of his game-high 25 points during a third-quarter spurt that lifted the East to a 132-123 victory, its fourth straight triumph over the West, in the 33rd National Bas· ketball Association All-Star game yesterday. Erving of the Philadel­phia 76ers, dazzlc:d the sellout crowd of 17, 505 at The Forum with his usual brilliant assortment of dunks and finger-roll layups that have become almost routine in hb 12-year pro career. Erving was named the .'>lost Yaluable Player in the game, an honor he also won in 
197-:' although the East was defeated in that game. Sunday's victory gave the East a 22-l l series lead. -AP 
See BRIEFS, page 13 

In Men's swimming 
"Best series all year" 

Belles finish third at UW-GB 
By DAVE IRWIN "The steals off our press got us Saint Mary's led most of the way Sports Writer going." said Rouse. "Our press was against Chicago State, but could verv effective. It was the best never put the Cougars away. The Saint Mary's basketball team defense we played all year. Belles built a 38-32 halftime margin captured third-place in the lOth an­"It was our biggest win all year in and led ~2-63 in the waning mo­nual l niversity of Wisconsin-Green regards to beating some pretty ments of the game before the Bay Invitational tourney held over decent competition.' Cougars battled back to cut the lead the weekend at the Phoenix Sports Short kept the Belles close in the to two, 7 3-71, with eight seconds Center. tirst half with l 0 of her 16 points. remaining and possession ofthe ball. 
The Belles defeated Northland She also grabbed l 1 rebounds for A !().footer. however, by Chicago College (Ashland, Wis.), 65-55, the game. State failed to drop giving the Belles Friday night to advance into Satur­Suess put Ashland away with 19 third-place in the tourney. day's semi-tina!. Saint Mary's second-half points. Chip Ayotte "They definitely had some talem," dropped a 7 7--J8 decision to the host scored six points in the second half said Rouse. "They had some girls and eventual tourney champions in after starting center Missy Van Orr that could play. They were quick its t1rst game Saturday before bounc­fouled out. Betsy Ebert also touted and they could jump." ing back and edging Chicago State, out. Besides Short's 20 points, Van Ort 7 3· 7 1, in the nightcap. Green Bay. 2H-9 last year, added 1-J points on-a 12-for-16 per­
"We were 2-1 and got third-place dominated Saint Ma~J·'s. The host led formance at the free throw line. against excellent competition," said 35-1 7 at halftime. The Belles could Teresa McGinnis regained the Rouse. ''I'm pleased. It was the best get no closer than S2-39 in the shooting touch that enabled her to series we played all year." second half. climb to tifth nationally in the NAIA 
Elaine Suess paced the Belles "They had a great advantage," said field goal percentage category by during the weekend scoring -J9 Rouse. "They sat up and watched us bagging seven of 16 from long-range points. Her efforts landed Suess on play Friday night." Green Bay and to match Yan Ort's 1-J points. 
the all-tournament team. Northern \1ichigan had tirst round Suess added 12 points. Ebert 
"She was very conistent," byes in the six-team tornament. battled Chicago State on the back­anaylyzed Rouse of Suess' 23. 1-J, "They came out and pressed us," boards for 12 carroms. and 12 point games. continued Rouse. "They are ve~J' Saint :\1ary's has won three of its 
Cyndy Short also sparkled, tally­talented." last ti ve games after sulfering ing SO points in the three games. She \'an Ort showed her talent tor the through a six-game losing streak af­led the Belles in the consolation Belles pumping home 16 point~ and ter Christmas break. The Belles are game with 20 points. powering her way to 21 rebounds. H-12 on the season. The eight vic­
"Cyndy probably had her best Short and Suess each added 1-J tories match last season's victory to· three game series ofher career," said points. lal. Rouse. "We gave her and a lot of the others more freedom to play their games. They seemed more relax and less rigid." 
The Belles trailed l '"'-6 early in the 

• • • Women 
t1rst half against Northland before unleashing a devasting full-court stand, about -12 points shy of the
continuedji·om page"16 
defense that rattled the Wisconsin women\ basketball penthouse. It's schooL Saint Mary's forced layup oft' a theft of Rodman, and a time to turn w the business of es­Northland into an incredible 51 pair ofassists. tablishing themselves at the top of 
t1rst-half turnovers and 52 for the "She (Brown ) showed a lot of the Midwest's women's hoops elite. 
game. chutzpah in practice all week," said IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame Ma~J' D. "And she deserved the shot. begins its tina! push for the Tourna­She did a good job in the second half ment next week in Peoria and Nor­when we were sputtering." mal, lll., with games Friday night at 
By the time Brown entered the Bradley and Saturday night at Illinois 


lineup, Louisiana Tech had taken the State .... The official attendance of competitiveness, as well as the 3.--120 was merely a count of ticket·
Notre Dame defeats Wayne State 

crowd. which for the tirst half had holders that showed up. Studenb been ve~J· involved, out ofthe game. who came were not included. An un­By THERON ROBERTS the ten-minute mark in the 1000-Bohdan ( 1 00-yard free), Lou Bower­
Sports Writer yard freestyle, finishing with a time sox ( 200-yard back), and Blaise Har­"They were a tremendous ofiicial estimate counted about 900 crowd," said Barmore. "A ve~J' vocal students, which would have brought
of9:57.6. ding ( 200-yard individual medley) The Notre Dame men's swimming AI Harding also had a sterling per­had additional second-place bunch ofstudents, and that was part the 3ttendance to around -J,300 .... team closed their home season formance for the Irish. Harding tinishes. of the reason we came out so On the sidelines were freshman for­Saturday afternoon in impressive fas­grabbed tirst-place in the 200-yard tentative." ward Lynn Ebben and hard-luck hion, handing \X'ayne State a 66-47 free ( 1:-17.3) and the 100-yard free Rounding out the list of nine Irish 
Aside from the Notre Dame fans, junior center Jenny Klauke. Ebben, 
defeat. ( :48.9 ). He joined Paul Benz, Dan winners: Brian Casey captured the which for the tirst time provided a who has a sprained right ankle, will "sixth man" for DiStanislao's
Sophomore Tim Bohdan, quickly Flynn, and brother Blaise for a -JOO­200-yard lly. Dan Carni won the 50-be out ti.>r next weekend, as will becoming the 'rising star' for the yard medley relay win. yard free, and Paul Benz was vic­women, Tech had to overcome a Klauke, who has a stress fracture of 
Irish. led ND to the viclOIJ' with The 400-yard freestyle relay team torious in the 200-yard backstroke. protracted case of battle fatigue, as her right ti.>ot .... Key~ and Schueth well as the loss of Mulkey, in this led Irish rebounders, snaring seven
record-setting performances in the of Gary Seve~J'n, Glenn Battle, Jeff 
'500-and l 000-yard freestyle events. Hauswirth, and Greg Bohdan took The Irish improved their record game. apiece . . . . Rodman checked in 7 "We've been on the road I 5 ofthe with a game-high l H points and
Bohdan led the pack in the 500-first in that event. Paul McGowan to -3.. and are in action again on past 23 days," Barmore explained. Lawrence added I~ . . . . The
yard free, winning the race with a placed second in both the one-and Friday when they oppose lllinois­time of -J:-15.9. He abo became the three-meter diving competitions, Chicago Circle and Northern lllinois 
"But we have a lot of pride. Techsters racked up 18 steals, 12 in Evervwhere we go, there are record
t1r~t i'Ootre Dame swimmer to break while Flynn ( 200-yard lly ), Greg in a triangular meet in Chicago. the second half. . . . Notre Dame crowds. and that puts a lot of was called for its tirst 30-second pressure on us not to disappoint violation in the tirst half. 
them. That helps us get motivated." 
Coach MaryDiStanislao, who had insisted all week that playing No. l Tech was a "great opportunity" t()r 
... Classifieds
her young squad, held to that asser­tion after the game. "Now, my kids know what it's like 
continuedfrom page 10 
to run with the best," said DiStanis­
Dear Cygne. Roses are red.
lao. "They realize how much it takes 
V•olels are blue 
to compete with these teams ...and 
I wtsh I was home. Instead of I U 
they realize that your shots have got 
Runmng and books. 
to drop, too." 
F1ll most of my VJew 
But the core of my heart. Is devoted to you' 
The importance of thb ba~ketball 
game was not in the tina! score. 
Happy V-Day Love, Gumby
While the Irish women were unable 
to go toe-to-toe with the Lady 
Lad•esof P W 
Techsters, DiStanislao on friday 
vOTE night learned exactly how far her 
St~rks · Prez McCrudden · VP
team was from the big time. She 
of hall counc•l 
decided to use the terminology of a coach in the middle of a hot recruit­
GrapefrUits and her three hormonal Inends
ing battle. 
May all of mtne you ve ever seen fulfill 
your lives •n the days ahead
''I'll hold to the contention that 
HsppyV.D.

we're only a center and a point 
Ryan 

guard awa,·," said DiStanislao. "I'm convinced that this was a good ex­
SENIORS 

perience ti.H our kids. They know 
Valenttne s Day Celebratton at Corbys. 9·1 am

what playing the best is all about. 
Strawberry Margantas &

and to become the best you·ve got to 
Draft Beer Spec•als 
john DeVoe's fourth goal oftbe year proz•ed to Green. See jane Healey's story· on page 16. (Photo 

plav the best."
IJe a timefJ' one as it lifted the Irish to an insur­by Paul Cifare/li) 
The Irish know now where they
---~ -~-~­

The Observer Monday, February 14, 1983 -page 12 
• • • Hockey 

Irish hockev coach LeRv Smith saw his team win three out ofa possible four points this weekend, upseting top-ranked Bowling Green. See Lef~v's remarks in jane Healey's story starting on page 
16. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
~ 'I.Uiit.~ LrVtl[ \.'-11'\J 'n-IJ<f'\ 
C{)ltVHIJNIICAIJII{)N 
~.......--0JlrlfAIJ~fc ~\~f)~I[)A\,/ lfiiiL~\ ~1(1~111~~ 11 
Feoruary 14 
Enthusiasm (1931) Dz1ga Verlov. USSR. 8/W. 90 mm Former Russ1an fu1ur1s1 Dz1ga Venov made thiS. h1S f11st sound f1lm. as bo1h a documen1ary-collage of Sov1e1 1ndus1ry and deliriOUS demons1ra­lion of lhe formal poss•bil111es of ed111ng and creat1ve use of sauna 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 1 
........---lr~u ~ 11~13lti lr.....-$._z_._o-0 ,~ 
ENGINEERS 
Tucson, Arizona A Place in the Sun Local Interviews in February for Hughes. 
Hughes is one of the world's most sophisticated facilities for advanced missile technology. 
Some of the world's most advanced missile systems were developed here in the early 50's. Today. the highest level of missile technology has set the standard for tomorrow's sophisticated electronics. 
Hughes is developing AMRAAM. A system so highly developed, it can chase a target beyond visual range. 
TOW, Maverick. Phoenix and more. Incredible technology! And Hughes is one of the few companies that can offer such diverse and innovative technology nght here in Tucson. 
Hughes people have the option of a wonderful continuing education program. Here at the University, they may pursue college degrees or advanced studies. Be part of a company w1th more than 1,500 projects underway. 
Current openings exist for experienced. as well as new. eng111eers w1th degrees in EE. ME. Chem E, Physics or Metallurgy 
Microwave Design Engineers 
RF/Microwave Test Equipment Design 
Production Support Test Engineers 
Test Equipment Design Engineers 
Hybrid Support Engineers 
Process Development Engineers 
Hybrid Microelectronics 
Production Engineers 
Project Engineers 
Process Engineers 
If you'd like to be part of a story that's still unfolding, wnte yourself in. 
For an 111terview in the local area. please call collect (602) 746-6200 or send your resume io: Cathleen Woodward. Hughes Aircraft Company. Professional Employment Dept A21-NC. P 0. Box 11337, Tucson. AZ 85734. 
Crealtnf! a ne.u: u·orld U'llh electroruc.s 
r------------------, 
:HUGHES: 
L------------------~ 
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPA,..,.T 
MISSILE SYSTEMS -TUCSON 
Proof of U S C1t1zenshlp Requ1red Equal Opportunity Employer 
~ 
continuedfrom page 16 
Samanski's stick was legal or not. While the falcons prematurely celebrated victory, the ref determined that Samanski had scored the goal with an illegally curved stick. The goal was -dicounted, Samanski got a two­minute penalty for his offense, and 
the Irish were still alive. 
Only four minutes later, Brian 
Hills of Bowling Green centered to 
Wilson who seemed to score the 
winning goal. A~ the Falcons 
huddled rogether rejoicing, Chap­
man hurst into the middle and 
grabbed Wilson's stick which had 
been slyly handed to a teammate. 
The oftkials checked and re­
checked until the roar of the home 
crowd signalled that Wibon had also 
been caught for using an illegal stick. 
The goal was not allowed and the 
game went on to end in the 4-4 tie. 
"I've never had a game where one 
goal has been disallowed in 
overtime, let alone two goals," said 
Smith. "I've seen the call made 
before, but never to end a game like 
this." 
McNamara ended up with 48 
saves and the Irish gained conidence 
for Saturday's game. 
"We started out slow, but we real­
ly carried the play from the I 5­
minute mark of the first 
period,"Smith said. "I'm proud ofthe 
way the kids hung in there." 
The t1rst period on Saturday was a 
virtual plethora of penalties. There were 14 whistles blown -eight going against the Irish. Out of those 1--i, eight were the result of one par· ticular incident. After a whistle stop­ping the action. Benning stood up in front of McNamara. Dave Randerson came from behind to level the fresh­man. Benning and his teammates retaliated sparking a malay of sorts. Five Irish pla}'Crs ~queezed into the penalty box, while only three Fal­cons were penalized. 
"It seemed almost unhelievahle," Smith said. "Either I'm blind or the refs are, hut I'd sure like to see that incident again." 
The brawl overshadowed the fact that Notre Dame was leading 2-1 at the end of the period. Sophomore Wayne Collins, who replaced David in the Falcon net, made nice saves on shots hy Tony Bonadio and Steve Ely. But, he could not repel a tip in by Higgins at 7:22. 
Almost ten minutes later, from the corner Bjork centered to Chapman moving in on Collins. Chapman slid his shot under the goalie's legs to make it a 2-0 game. 

Seconds later, Bowling Green's Dan Kane silenced the crowd on a clean breakaway. Kane out maneuvered McNamara for the goal. 
The Irish kept pressure on though. At 2:19 of the next period, Thebeau shot at Collins on a breakaway of his own. Trailing was Chapman who knocked the rebound high into the net. 

CCHA roundup McNamara honored 
By The Associat,ed Press goalie Bob McNamara made 95 saves in the series to earn CCHA For the second time in two weeks, player-of-the-week honors. lead-leading Bowling Green ran into 
Ohio State kept its winning streak a hot goaltender and collected just alive with a 6-2, 6-I sweep of Wes­one point as the race for t1rst place tern Michigan to pull into a tie forheats up in the Central Collegiate second place with Michigan State. 

Hockey Association among the Fal­The Buckeyes have won nine cons, Michigan State and Ohio State. 

straight and lost just once in theirThe Falcons, flying high with a last 20 games.

safe lead just two weeks ago, met a tired up Notre Dame squad and the Michigan State fell into a tie with 

opener ended in a 4-4 tie and the the Buckeyes just three points be­Fighting Irish won rhe second game hind Bowling Green by splitting two 5-.3 over the weekend as senior games at Michigan Te.rh. 

???????????????????????????????????? 
Are You Registered for the Draft? 
Are You Concerned About the Possibility of Being Drafted into the 
Military? Do You Think You Might Be A Conscientious Objector? 
Would You Like to Know What Being A Conscientious Objector Entails? 
If These Questions Are of Concern to You, Then You Should Inquire About 
Registration & Draft Counseling at Campus Ministry Badin Hall** *239-5242 
The Falcon~ came back w tie the 

score at 5-.3 on goals by Dave Ellet 
and Samanski. Both goals were 
scored on two-on-one situations as 
the Falcons had trouble setting up a 
controlled offense. 
The Irish had a pretty breakaway 

of their own at exactly 1-t:OO of the 
second period. Chapman kd a per­
fect lead pass to Bjork alone on Col­
lins. For Bjork, the goal gave him 51 
total point!'> on the sea~m, while 
Chapman's assist was his sixth point 
on the weekend and his -t2nd point 
on the year. 
"Our line is continuing to play 

well," Chapman said. "Whether I 
score or Kirt orJohn, our whole line 
deserves the credit." 
The third period had most of the 

capacity crowd on their feet as the 
clock ticked oft·and the Irish held on 
by one goal. 
Then, at I 7:05, John Deasey and 
DeVoe found a break. On a two-on­
one, Deasey drew Collins wide and 
slipped a pass to DeVoe who shot 
the puck low on Collins. DeVoe's 
fourth goal ofthe season was a badly 
needed insurance point for the Irish. 
"Deasey intercepted the puck off 

one of their guys," DeVoe said. "He 
passed it over to me right in front of 
their defenseman. I kept the puck 
down and just as he was going down, 
it went between his legs." 
At 19:14, the Falcons pulled Col­
lins. After Higgins and Doman went 
to the penalty box followed by 
George Roll of Bowling Green, the 

Falcons had a five on three ad­
vantage with 26 seconds. Their ef­
fort was to no avail. When the buzzer 
sounded, the final score was 5-3, 
Notre Dame. 
Most of the praise must be directed at McNamara. His 47 saves on Saturday totalled a remarkable 95 saves on the weekend. The barrage ofshots is not all bad as long as most do not go in. 
"I find it easier to stay in the game when there are so many shots," McNamara said. "My concentration is better when I have to constantly be aware." 
McNamara got a lot of help this weekend from his defense. 
"The defense kept guys out in front of me so I had a good look at the shots," he said. "They did a good job of covering the points and back checking aU weekend." 
The Chapman-Higgins-Bjork line continues to roll, scoring 3'7 of the last 50 goals. But Smith focussed his attention on the third Irish line. 
"Bianchi's line (DeVoe and Deasey) has shown so much im­provement," he said. The two fresh­man and lone sophomore have only been playing togt·ther for the last three weekends. "They did and ex­cellent job of li>re checking all weekend. They kept Bowling Green in their own zone all night." 
Besides the "atrocious" officiat­ing, Smith wa!> pkased. The Irish are now I 0-16-2 with 22 points in the CCHA standings. They possess ~lie ownership <>f eighth place. Next weekend they go to Columbus, Ohio to try and up!->et third place Ohio 
~tate_ 

STUDENT DISCOUNT 

6>~~ 
cf #9 
~1\t~ 
20 0/0 OFF 
STUDENT DISCOUNT w/Student I.D. Offer not valid with any 
other Aurelio's special discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 

C'RR\Oll UllOHR\
277-4950

OIIDI'll' '\'II 'II( 
The Observer Louisiana Tech yardstick 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
A yardstick. 
That is what the Louisiana Tech women's basketball game was supposed to be. It was supposed to show how far the Notre Dame' program had to go before it would rank among the country's finest. 
Things worked out as planned. 
When the yardstick was ex­amined, it showed that the Irish are still a few years and a couple of players away from competing on the level of Louisiana Tech. 
Before you give up hope that the team will be a power before you graduate, though. remember that there is only one other team in the country, USC, that can compete with the Lady Techsters. 
"When Mary D. gets a couple more players, they'll be tough," says Tech coach Sonja Hogg. "The team's very well coached, but the big cen­ter is missing." 
C01ltinuedfrom page 16 
the day. In a town called Havre de Grace. Md., we found a motel -it 
made  Motel  Six  look  like  the  
Waldorf-Astoria,  but  it  probably  
saved our lives.  

By the time the snow had stopped Saturday morning, the damage had been done -a record 30 inches of snow in Northern Maryland. We tried to push it to Raleigh, but the roads were still in bad shape. So we had to settle for another motel here in Richmond, 170 miles short of Raleigh, and watched the game on TV. 
As our luck would have it, the Irish pulled off their biggest win of the season down in Raleigh, 43-42 over the Wolfpack. 
It was just as sweet 170 miles away. 
********* 


janice Lawrence (50). Louisiana Tech's 6-3 all-American center, won this tip easilv (Jl'er 6-1 Shari Matuey (22) ofNotre Dame. LTV went on to outclass the Irish 81-39. See .'Ifike Sullivan's story at left. (Photo bv Scott Bower) 
Missed Kempton and Dan 
end, but Terry Gannon's 20-footcr went awry. Kempton's rebound scaled it, and suddenly the Irish are back in the NCAA Tournament hunt again. 
Notre Dame is now 13-8 after its biggest win of the year -one that came with most ofthe nation watch­ing and listening to the influential voice of AI McGuire, who also saw the win as a major step toward a tournament bid. 
The Irish can perhaps afford to stumble one more time on the road to a bid. And while a 6-1 record the remaining of the season may be ask­ing too much, the situation looks a lot brighter than it did two nights ago. 
********* 
was 
shots blocked the first 
intimidated afterwards missed some easy layups. If what Hogg and 
when DiStanislao 
programs. 
Louisiana Tech, someone who was, limited in her 
in its third season 
of the game. Both teams have 

Monday, February 14, 1983 -page 13 
-.­


$$$$$ FINANCIAL A I D $$$$$ 
OVER $900 PER MONTH TO QUALIFIED 
SENIOR AND JUNIOR ENGINEERING STUDENTS NOW 
The United States Air Force has a special program that will pay you over $900 per month for up to 12 months prior to graduation. This program is called the College Senior Engineer Program (CSEP). Besides the money, you will also receive complete medical and dental care, free legal service, 50 percent off on airline tickets and much more. 
WHAT IS THE CATCH? There are no hidden commitments. During these 12 months your only job is to remain a student at your school and also maintain a minimum 2.5 GPA. No uniforms, no meetings, no summer training camps, no special classes. When you graduate, you will attend a 12 ·week Officer Orientation Course and then serve a total of 4 years with the Air Force as a Engineering Officer. To qualify for this program you must be a U.S. citizen, meet physical and moral require· ments, and be majoring in an accredited engineering discipline with a minimum 2.5 GPA. There will be an information dinner about this program in the near future in the South Bend area. If you would be interested in attending or would like more information about this program, complete and mail coupon below to: 
MAIL TO: MARTY lAZAR, AIR FORCE OFFICER PlACEMENT 125 S. Bill St., South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 2)6-8208 CALL COLLECT 
m~-----------------------------
ADDRESs 

DISCIP~=-=~------------------------------~G=PA~----­
PHONE # 

YES N~O--=I~W~o=ULD=--=-L==IKE=-=ro=--=-A==TTEND=~y~o==UR~D-=INNER=~.­
~please circle) 

co~s·------------------------------------------­
BEGINNER OR ADVANCED· Cost is about the same as a semester 1n a room Standardized tests show our students' language skills supenor 
U.S. college. $3, t89. Pnce Includes jet round tnp to Sev1lle from New to students completing two year programs in U.S Advanced courses York, room, bOard, and tu1tion complete. Government grants and loans also. available for eligib)e students 
Hurry, it takes a lot of lime to make all arrangements. Live w1th a Spanish family, attend classes four hours a day. four days a 
SPRING SEMESTER-Feb 1 ·June 1/ FALL SEMESTER-Sept. 10. week, four months. Earn 16 hrs. of credit (equivalent to 4 semesters­
Dec. 22 each year. taught 1n U.S. colleges over a two year t1me span). Your Spamsh 
FULLY ACCREDITED ·A program of Tnmty Christian College. studies will be enhanced by opportunities not available 1n a U.S. class-
SEMESTER IN SPAIN 
For full information'-write to: 
2442 E. Collier S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 (A Program of Trinity Christian College) 
It was the type of game Notre Dame likes to play -a half-court game where the Irish, if they control the boards, can control the tempo and keep the score low. As evidenced Thursday night in New Jersey, the Irish can't even beat Fordham when the score reaches 70. 
The score was just 21-18 at halftime and Notre Dame stretched the lead to as much as six in the second half But for the first time all season, Notre Dame had to clinch a key victory with foul shots, and al­most let it slip away. 
The sky also looks a lot brighter than it did two days ago, and we should make it back to Notre Dame by Monday without too much trouble. 
But for a while there it didn't look too prom1smg stuck in a snowdrift in the middle of the worst snowstorm the East Coast has ever seen, and with no civilization in sight. Suddenly, Notre Dame, as depressing as it is in the middle of February, didn't seem too -bad after all. 
It'll be good to get back home. 
• • • Briefs 

continuedfrom page 11 
Sports transactions over the weekend include the Chicago White Sox signing of Fran Hirschy, a pitcher. In !basketball, the Atlanta Hawks traded guard Rory Sparrow to the :-.lew York Knicks for forward Scott Hastings and cash. The Seattle Scahawks traded forward Ray Tolbert to the Atlanta Hawks for forward Steve Hawes. In Uited States Football League action, the Detroit Panthers signed running back Ken Lacy and punter Herman Weaver. -AP 
Three ClUtCh free thrOWS by Dwayne McClain propelled 12th-ranked Villanova to a 56-53 upset of top-ranked North Carolina on Sunday, ending the Tar Heels' 18-game college basketball winning streak. The Tar Heels, 21-4, had pulled within 49-45 on a jump shot by Sam Perkins with 1 :46 remaining. With North Carolina having a chance to cut the deficit to two points, McClain intercepted a pass by Steve Hale and was fouled by Perkins. McClain sank one free throw with 1:16left, giving Villanova a 50-45 lead. He hit two more with 59 seconds left, making it 52-45. Jim Braddock's jumper with 53 seconds remaining brought North Carolina within five points, butJohn Pinone hit two more foul shots, giving Villanova a 54-47 lead with 47 seconds left. A layup by Mike Mulquin with 31 seconds left sealed Villanova's victory, raisig the Wildcats' record to 17-4. -AP 
The Observer Monday, February 14, 1983 -page 14 
Belles finish seventh 
Irish capture second at state 

·~··"' 
Though he didn't play against North Carolina State, JoJo Buchanan playedfine defense in Thursday night's match up. It was fellow guard Dan Duff who was the hero Saturday, as his free throws helped the Irish to a 43-42 victory over the Wolfpack. See the story on page /6. (Photo by 
Pete Laches) 
By MARY SIEGER 

Thi~ weekend, the Notre Dame women's swim team captured second place after earning an in­credible 735 points at the State In­vitational Women's Swim Tournament which was held at DePauw Universil:y, A tough Ball State team swam to claim 1168
-.­
points and the championship. Saint Mary's swim team finished seventh with 310 points, but qualified four more swimmers for the Nationals. 
"We had some good swims at this meet and I think our girls did well, but we were no contest to Ball State," explained Irish Head Coach Dennis Stark. "We took the lead in the first event," continued Stark, "but we fell behind after thhe second and we n(:ver caught up to Ball State after the fourth." 
Stark named Karen Bobear, Venette Cochiolo, Gina Gamboa, Karen Korowicky and Irish co­captain Sheila Roesler as the out­standing, swimmers in individual events. Stark also commended the members of the relay teams on their performances at the tournament. 
"I think we did real well consider­ing Ball State has nine girls on scholarship and Notre Dame has none," noted Cochiolo. 
"The team really came together this weekend and demonstrated an outstanding team effort," reflected Roesler. "I think we did better than we expected agai111st Ball State ancl 

~Itt 
W.hma-{. 
TheNowPrinters,. 
held our own... continued Roesler. 

Stark and his team are looking ti.>r­ward to the Midwest Invitational Tournament which will be held on February 24-26. "The Midwesterns are our big meet because we are not going to the Nationals. It will be our last and toughest meet because we will be facing the most competition we've seen all season," commented Cochiolo. 
On Wednesday, the 5-5 Irish will be travelling to Kalamazoo to face Kalamazoo College. This is an im­portant meet for the Irish because the outcome ofthis meet will set the mood for the Midwesterns. 
"We want to go out on a winning note and if we do well, it will be a real plus going into the Midwes­tern's,"said Roesler. 
The Saint Mary's College swim team also competed in this weekend's tournament finishing in seventh place with a total of 310 points. 
"I don't want our swimmers to get depressed over our finish in the State Tournament because I don't feel this is any indication ofhow our team will do in the Nationals," stated Belles Head Coach Scott Trees. 
In this weekend's tournament, the Belles qualified four more team members for the Nationals. In addi­tion to swimmers Katy Berg, Kath­leenJuckniess and Barb Blanchette, diver Colleen Ambrose also qualified for the Nationals. 
"I'm really excited about going to the Nationals because I never dove 


MetroPcolitan 
Insurance Companies 
Representatives of Metropolitan Life Insurance CompanJ(S Group Insurance Company will be on 
campus Tl1ursday, Feb. 24, 1983. We are looking for 
interest111d individuals who desire to become an 
Your resume should also be 

Employee fJenefit Marketing Representative, which is 
special. A professionally typeset 
resume is important because it 

a salaried position in the Chicago Group Office, 
shows you in your best light. We 

serving e;r:isting clients with primary emphasis on 
are typesetting professionals and 

Marketing 1&mployee benefit programs to new clients 
can help you look your best. 

tl1rough brokers and consultants. 
Bring this ad with you for 10% OFF on the 

Formal clcrssroom and on-the-job training. Starting 
typesetting of your resume. Offer expires 

salary commensurate with experience and educational
May 31, 1983. Offer good only lor typesetting. 

backgroull!d. This is a long-term career opportunity. Sign-up earJ1y on the Metropolitan Life. Chicago Group 
Office ~;chedules, located at the Placement &
247 Dixieway North 

Recruiting Office. We'll be glad to talk to you on
South Bend, IN 46637 

FE1b. 24th about a rewarding career. 
219-277-3355 

FRESHMEN INTERESTED IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS The Dean's Meeting with Freshmen who plan to enter the College of Arts and Letters will be held on Monday, February 14, 1983 a1: 7:30P.M. in the Auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. Following are the topics which will be covered: 
1. 
Dean Burns· The Collegte of Arts and Letters and Liberal Education. 

2. 
Michael R. Smith · lntrodluction of the ALSAC members present and a brief description of the composition and func:tions of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council. 

3. 
Dean Waddick· Degree requirements in the C<ltllege of Arts and Letters, and career goals 10f liberal arts students. 

4. 
Dean Austgen ·The ALPP and AE programs. The second major in Alpa. 

5. 
Dean Neiman· The Core Course and the Program of Liberal Studies. 

6. 
Cathy Flanagan· The Lo,ndon Program. 



I 
7. Dean Burns· Concludin~~ remarks. A question/answer period will follow the presentath>n. 
on the National le\'el before ami 
going to tht· :-.lationab should be a 
good experience," commented an 
enthusiastic Ambrose. 
At this time, 18 Saint Mary's swim· 
mers have qualified for the Nation· 
als. However, two of these 
swimmers will be unable to accom­pany the Belles on their journey to the Nationals. One of the swimmers is going to Rome, and the other has her art comprehensive on that date. This is the first time that the majority of the Saint Mary's swim team has qualified for the Nationals. 
"I'm really happy to go down to the Nationals with the team. Scott really set us up well and the other swimmers were really concerned about myself and the others qualify· ing,"reflected Juckniess. 
"It really was no problem about taking seventh place. We really weren't concerned with those results we only wanted to get more girls qualified and improve our times,"explained Gail Casey. 
"There were no other NAIA schools at the meet. I would like to swim some NAIA schools because it would be a better indication ofhow we stack up in our Division," com­mented Trees. 
On Friday, the Belles will be travelling to Kalamazoo College for its last meet before the Nationals which will take place on March 3-5 in Arkadelphia, Ark. Trees believes that the Belles will win the meet if the Belles take the meet seriously. 
"I would like to see more girls qualify for more events at this meet," stated Trees. 
"Kalamazoo will be a tough meet, but we should win so long as the seniors and the others are up for it," commented Casey. 
REJOIN THE ARMY 1 WEEKEND A MONTH 
Miss the friends you made in the Army? And the special benefits like PX priveleges? The Army Reserve can help bring them back for you on a part-time basis. And with a new pay raise, an E-4 with 3 years now earns over $1660 a year for just a weekend a month plus two weeks of annual training. Besides PX priveleges, you'll keep those retirement points going and more. You'll also like the people you meet. People who understand and appreciate what you've done for your country. Stop by and see us, or call: SGT Hamilton 234-4187 Call Collect 
ARMY RESERVE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
; ..............-.......................................-. 
fShelly H. 
!: Why are you frightened-can't you see that E it's youSThat ain't no ghost-it's a reflection of you $Why do you turn away-an' keep it out of sight ! Oh ·don't live up to your given roles i There's more inside you that you won't show iBut you keep it hidden just like everyone5You're scared to show you care· it'll make you ! vulnerableiSo you wear that ghost around you for 5 disguise 
5But there's no need just 'cos it's all we've 5 known :There's more inside you that you haven't 
shown So keep on movmg, movmg, moving your feet Keep on shuf-shul-shuffling to this ghost 
dance beat Just keep on walking down never ending 
streets One day you'll walk right out of this life And then you'll wonder why you didn't try To spread some lovmg all around Old fashioned causes l1ke that still stand Gotta rid this prejudice that lies you down How do you feel at the end of the day Just like you've walked over your own grave So why are you frightened. can't you see that 
it's you At the moment there's nothing-so there's nothing to lose Lift up your lonely heart and walk right on 
through Haoov Valentine's Dav Bob C. 
:~ ...................nk~••••--"•••••i••••••••••••••••l! 

--------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-~-----------~~--~------~---­
-~----~ --~---­
---~ 
Ihe~~r======================================= 
~~4tllC)L~=========================M=o=n=d=a=y,=F=e=b=ru=a=ry==14=,=1=9=83===p=a=g=e=1=5
Bloom County Berke Breathed
,....;..______ 


_ 
ffff'..Vf,, F:llf$Y H6Y!1HI5 11Mf. YOV DO IS AV6RY SG¥iTHIN0 UK€. CHARMIN0 11-115, YOUG£1 
ICf..P.! ARR£51W.•.NOJJ fiJ HOMf-l
\ 
~ 


Jeb Cashin 

Photius 



Campus 
•6 
p.m. -Student Senate Meeting, 2C, LaFortune 

•6:30 
p.m. -ND Women's Caucus Meeting, So­cial Concern Room, LaFortune 

•7 
p.m. -BCAF Concert, Betty Carter, Library Auditorium 


•: 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Enthusiasm," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•: 
and 9:30 p.m. -Social Concerns Film, "Roses in December," Social Concerns Building 


•7:30 
p.m. -Mandatory Meeting, For all those interested in running for class officer, Student Government Oftkes, LaFortune Student Center 

•8 
p.m. -New York Philharmonic, WSND-FM 88.9 

•9p.m.-MondayNightFilmSeries, 
"Triumph of the Will," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 


T.V. Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30tp.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 
10p.m. 
llp.m. 

16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 2!l 34 ~-2·1 Contact 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 34 Over Easy 16 M·A·S·H 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 Joker's Wild 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 16 Little House A New Beginning 
22 Square Pegs 28 That's Incredible 34 Front Line 22 Filthy Rich 16 TV Censored Bloopers 22 M-A·S·H 28 Movie 34 Great Pertormances 22 Newhart 16 Fame Special 22 Cagney and Lacey 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 2!l 
34 Indiana Lawmakers 
Fate 
PARDON M[, SONNY, BllT I THCLI.C:.H T 'IOU 'D Ll Kf" lo I\NOW THAf YOU. HAVt AlirfLf SOI-1HHI NG 

r-rHENOTRtDAMESTuDENTUNiON-i 1 is searching for II next year's leaders 1 1 Applications for Student Union Director I 
I and Comptroller for '83·'84 are now I available from the Student Unnon secretary
I Get Involved and Make a Difference Applications are due Feb. 18
I 
1
1 
1 I 

66 Easy job 37 Priest's book 
DOWN 38 Eggs 1 Coffee 39 Philippine 2 Go drink 3 Chancy 42 Greeted 4 Country 43 Columbus 
monogram campus 5 Negligent 45 Lasses 6 Provoke 46 Existing: 7 Beethoven's Lat. 
"-Solem-47 Help! nis" 48 Sprite 8 Part of 49 Rope fiber TGIF 51 Part of 9 Musical -N. Eng. 
subject 52 Oaf 10 Sincere 53 Apollo's 11 Brightest mother 
star 56 -podrida 12 Describing 57 Cry some floors 59 Rabble 13 Part of a 60 Lady of the meerschaum house 
The Far Side 

tUBin(j atB€n01X!!! 
Sat. , i=eB. 19-.(BUS lEaVES ffialn CIRClE at 1Oam) Only 45 spacEs availaBlE, so s1qn up now! S1qn-up ShEEt-SEE ffiaRqaR€t (S.U. SECREtaRy) 
In StU~Ent UniOn orriCES (2n~ rtooR la(:oRtUnE) 
.... 
,.__.. 

---------------------~ 
Dufrs free throws 

Notre Dame outlasts W olfpack 
This Debra Rodman (44) shot cleared the reach ofNotre Dame forward Trina Keys ( 13) but two otherLouisiana Tech shots didn't in Friday night'sgame. Keys scored 14 points as the1risb lost81-39. See Mike Riccardi's account below. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) -Notre Dame reserve: Dan Duff hit three free throws in the tlnal three minutes ­
· his only points-as the Irish held off North Carolina State for a ·B---t2 col­lege: basketball victory Saturday. 
While Duff turned out to be the hero, he nearly carried the goat label back home. Dutl hit two free throws at the 2:';..., mark to give Notrt Dame a 42-~6lead and hit one of two with I :26 left. 
After Lorenzo Charlc:s hit two free throws for N.C. State to cut the lead to --H--12 with I: 16 left, Duff had an opportunity to clinch the victory with ~I seconds remaining. An H"''.'; percent shooter, Duff missed the front end of the bonus with the Wolfpack's Thurl Bailey grabbing the rebound. 
N.C. State called a timeout with 22 seconds left and followed that with another timeout I I seconds later to set up it" tina! victory hid. 
The: Wolfpack got the ball w long­range: "hooter Terry Gannon, hut his 19-tilOtt'f hounded off the rim and Tim Kempton rebounded for the Irish, enabling them to raise their record to I~-H. 
:'-Jotre Dame. who led by as much as seven in the tlrst half. lost that lead momentarily in the second halt~ hut Tom Sluby's jumper at the 1-1:.20 mark put them ahead to stay. 
The Irish hit Hof II field goal at­tempts in the second half, compared with 9 of 2~. or .39.I percent in the first half N.C. State shot 42 percent on I 7 of 40 tlcld goal. 
Sluby led Notre Dame with I 1 points and John Paxson added 8. 
N.C. State, also 1.3-H, was led by 

Over 3,400 paid 
Irish outclassed by Louisiana Tech 

By MIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team's coming-out party was held at the ACC Friday night, but No. I Louisiana Tech University showed the record gathering of .3,420 that the Irish women had a long way to go in reaching big-time sratus, rol­ling to an 81-.39 victory. 
The Lady Techsters, 22-1, despite the loss of all-America point guard Kim Mulkey, lived up to their billing as the most dominating collegiate basketball team in the nation as they physically overwhelmed the Irish from the start. 
Center Mary Beth Schueth drove for Notre Dame's first shot, which 6­3 all-America Janice Lawrence redirected into Schueth's face. Lawrence rejected NO forward Shari 
Matvey on Notre Dame's next trip down the tloor to set the tone for the remainder of the evening. 
"I don't think we were emotional­ly intimidated," said Coach Mary DiStanislao, whose Irish women fell to 14-7. "But Lawrence is a great player. With players like that, it's ob­vious they're gonna stick it in people's faces. Rodman and (Tia) Sossamon are forces just because of their size." 
While Lawrence was aggressive, Tech's offense, was tentative with­out its sparkplug. LTU's first four buckets were scored from long-range, as the two-time defending na­tiona! champions struggled a while before finding an inside game. 
"(The loss ofMulkey) affected our transition and fast break," said Tech co-Head Coach Leon Barmore. "I didn't want to tire our kids by run­ning them so much. It was a shock to learn we had lost her just an hour before the game." 
Only freshman forward Trena 

Keys seemed utterly unfazed by the cruised to an early 15-.) advantage, Keys rejected forward Lori Scott from behin,d, and followed that with a 15-foot jumper. On Tech's next trip, Keys detlected a shot by guard Pam Gant and was able to follow Ruth Kaiser's miss at the offensive end. 
Keys, who t1nished with team­highs of 14 points ansd seven rebounds, was a major reason that the Irish were abk to stave off the Tech blowout for a while. 
When Louisiana Tech answered a 17-foot Keys bomb from the right wing with I I straight points, the Irish were looking at a 26-9 deficit and effectively out of the contest. 
Notre Dame had less trouble than expected establishing an inside game on the Lady Techsters. However, when Matvey, Schueth, Ruth Kaiser and Carrie Bates were able to get position, Lawrence or Rodman were able to put it back in their face. 
"Our inside people got inside," said Assisstant Coach Patrick Knapp. "But when you've got the 6-3 aircraft carrier (Lawrence) taking away the lane, we couldn't do any­thing once we got there (inside). Our shooting percentage bears that out." 
Notre Dame hit 28 percent of their first half tries as the Irish were intimidated into taking poor shots and blew more than a couple layup opportunities. If the sbots were dropping for the Irish, they could have been in a les:s uncomfortable situation than they were in at halftime. 
"I thought that our players did pretty well in the first half," said DiS­tanislao. "Our team is young, they were all fired up to play the No. 1 team and we hung in there with 'em. 
"Our first half shooting was a result of good defense on Tech's part. They forced us into a lot of and go in down .3I-I7 isn't all that bad." 
"They had us scouted real well." said Tech co-Head Coach Sonja Hogg. "They're just very well 
coached. The big center, though, is missing ....when Mary D. gets a couple bigger players, they'll be a dangerous team. But Trena Keys did a tremendous job." 
Notre Dame came out tlat in the second half, and Louisiana Tech carne out storming, scoring 13 un­answered points to establish a 46-17 lead. 
A touch of the surreal was added when DiStanislao inserted freshman walk-on Lisa Brown into the lineup with I5:~'; left in the contest. The 5-5 guard responded with 16 in­tense minutes of play, a driving 
See WOMEN, page 11 --·-----·---· 
· Ernie :\1yers with I'; points and Charles with I 2. 
"Today we gambled and won," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "We've: got a bunch of young players who sometimes don't under­stand what it takes to win on the road. !liked our composure: because I felt we had to control t the tempo. 
"Gannon is a good shooter, hut we didn't want them to have a chance to pump it inside and get the foul," Phelps said of the closing seconds. t 
"The second timeout, we told them to run our -~-2 set," N.C. State coach Jim Valvano said. "That's when we put the hall in the hands of Sidney (Lowe) and put our two best shooters, Gannon and :\1yers, on the wings. 

"Terry really was wide open. You couldn't :t"k for a hrtter shot. He'd just hit one right before. We wanted that to happen and it did. The just didn't go in. What are you going to do'" Valvano asked. 
Phelps was also plc:ased with Sluby's performance:. which in· eluded ';-for-'; from the: tloor. 
"We've: been waiting three years for Tom Sluhy to explode: in a big game like: thb," Phelps said. ·~we thought State would he: vulnerable on the basdinc: in driving situations and that's what he did." 
IRISH .ITE:\1~ -The: last time Notre Dame: scored so few points (··d) and won was on February 2~. 19--t9, when the Irish defeated \lich­igan State by the: same score, --1~---12. 
Reborn leers take revenge on falcons 
ByJANE HEALEY 
.SjJOrts Writer 
It was a series full of exciting scoring, bizarre penalties, and in­evitable tights. In the words ofNotre Dame hockey playerJohn DeVoe, "It was great fun." 
DeVoe and his teammates had just upset tlfth-ranked Bowling Green 5­.3 on Saturday night after they dead­
locked  with  the  Falcons  4-4  on  
Friday.  
"It  was  a  super  effort  all  

weekend," Coach Lefty Smith said. "To come up with three out ofa pos­sible four points against a team that swept you earlier really takes some­thing." 
The stellar performance of Irish goalie Bob McNamara deserves praise as the key to Notre Dame's success. Bowling Green came out smoking on Friday, tiring shot after shot on the senior from Toronto. But McNamara rejected 27 of those at­tempts, letting in only one goal in the tlrst period. 
"Bob has to be given a tremen­dous amount ofcredit for the job he did," Smith said. "He came up big in the tlrst period to save our tail." 
Brent Chapman scored a goal for the Irish at 1.3:5H of that period to make it a 1-1 tie. Sean Regan and McNamara got the assists. 
In the second period, the Irish quickly dropped behind. At 2:06, Perry Braun took a shot a little to the right of McNamara that slid past the upright goaltender. At 4:20, the Fal­con's Peter Wilson, at the end of a nice passing combination scored a power play goal with Mark Benning in the penalty box for cross check-

ing . 
But the "never say dk" Irish did not let a two-goal dc:lkit kill them. On the power play. Kirt Bjork skated down ice with control of the puck. He left it behind for John Higgins who dished it right back to Bjork drawing goalie \1 ike David out of position. Bjork smartly passed to Chapman on the open side who scored his second goal ofthe night. 
At 9:.30, captain Mark Doman tied the score at .3-3. Bob Thebeau fed Doman a pass in front of David. Doman adeptly turned and tired a shot for his ninth goal of the season. 
But with only ~9 seconds left in the period, it seemed as if the Fal­cons effectively took the wind out of the Irish sails and sent them to the locker room sulking. Gino Cavallini scored a goal to put Bowling Green up 4-3 for the third period. 
After ten tense, scoreless minutes of the last period, Benning took a slap shot that Bjork got a stick on. The puck managed to squiggle through David's pads to tie it at 4-4. 
"1 didn't even know it went in un­

til 1 saw Chapman lift his stick and 
start yelling,'' Bjork said. "The time 
before I hit the puck between my 
legs, so this time I turned to face the 
net and it went in.'' 
The goal sent the game into sud­den death overtime. This is where fate took a strange twist for the Fal­cons. 
Only 52 seconds into the overtime, it appeared that a John Samanski goal had killed the Irish hopes of victory. But Dornan asked the referees to check whether 
See HOCKEY, page 12 

StrjandedEditor gets snow job 
RICHMOND, Va. -This is as far as we got. And all because Iwas just trying to be a nice guy (for once). Sure, I could have tlown to New York and North Carolina to cover 
Notre Dame's two-game road trip this weekend. The reservations were made and everything. 
But, as a favor to one ofmy writers _ Rich O'Connor, who's done a lot ofwork for me this year-I decided to let him take the trip with me, free of charge, as long as he wanted to drive. 
Richie, who doubles as a statis­tician for the basketball team, lives just a short distance from The Meadowlands in northern New Jer­sey and took me up on the offer. 
Adumb move. 
Chris Needles 

..;S;;.!:p:..:o;.;.r,;,;ts;..;E;;;,;d;.;.i.;.;to;.;,r_____________:.~• 
%>,...-,·--­
'~ 
DePaolo, was equally dumb, as he decided to come with us. He would come to regret it. 
The trip out to Jersey Wednesday night was easy. The loss to Fordham Thursday night was disappointing, but Mrs. O'Connor's lasagna was a good consolation prize. The next morning, we would leave for Raleigh, N.C. for Saturday's must-win at N.C. State, knowing full-well that a possibly severe snowstorm was on the way. 
But if we left early, we thought we trouble. 

We did not beat the snow. 

If you've seen the pictures on the evening news, you know the rest of the story. 
A jack-knifed truck turned the New Jersey Turnpike into a parking lot for two hours Friday morning, and that proved to he our downfall. By the time we reached Maryland, Richie's front-wheel-drive Datsun was no match for the high snowdrift~. and we were done tor 
See SNOW, page 13 

~y T~hMcrL ~cr T~~~o~o~r~ili~o~t~s~-~B~L~tt~to~~s~~~o~o~t~li~k~e~t~h~a~~~~~·~~~n~o~ili~e~r~f~r~ie~n~d~~o~f~m~i~n~e~,;M~ic~k~·~c~o~u~l~d~b~e~a~t;t~h~eimow ~iliout any 
.r..·" 
,. 



