Theatre -page 6 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 10, 198.1
VOL XVIII, NO. 32 the independent ~tudcnt ncw~papcr ~crYing notn dame and ~aint mary 

Watt gives in to pressure,resigns as Interior Secretary
Associated Press protecting the environment. His terior Department official. dedication to public service and his The controversy was touched off 
WASHINGTON Interior accomplishments as secretary ofthe Sept. 21 when Watt told a Chamber Secretary James Watt resigned yes­interior will long be remembered." of Commerce breakfast that an lnte­terday, ending three weeks of Reagan said Watt informed him of rior Department advisory commit­uproar over his latest verbal gaffe his decision to resign during a tee contained a "a black ...a and a stormy two and a half year telephone call shortly after 'i p.m. woman. twoJews and a cripple." career as manager of the nation's EDT. The rt·mark prompted sewral land and natural resources. Watt said he resigned because Republican senators to demand his 
President Reagan reluctantly ac­"our usefulness ... has come to an resignation and led Senate Minority cepted the resignation and said Watt end." His letter of resignation was Leader Rohert C. Byrd. D-W.Va.. to would remain on the job until a suc­hand delivered to the president at 6 propost_· a formal resolution calling cessor is chosen. p.m. EDT. for Watt to resign. 
Watt made the announcement in a There was no immediate word on As recently as last Wednesday. cow pasture at'a ranch where he has Watt's successor. But White House Reagan was defending Watt, dedar­been vacationing near Santa Bart bara, aides have said for the past several ing that his statement was a "stupid" Calif., telling reporters "the time has days that candidates included for-remark hut was not an impeachable come" to step down. mer Sen. Clifford Hansen, R-offense. 
Reagan said Watt "has initiated a Wyoming;).). Simmons, a Democrat But Watt's support continued to careful balance between the needs who works at Interior; and Energy deteriorate in the Repuhlican­of people and the importance of Secretary Donald Hodel, a former In-controlled Senate. 
Knights of Columbus feel abused by Roemer and Student Senate 
ByMICHAELJ. CHMIEL from this location all parties other told him (McAvoy, the author of the News Staff than the K. of C.'s. The senate failed resolution) don't even hother with as Roemer refused to reconsider the the Knights of Columbus issue be­
The Knights of Columbus feel issue. cause we can't rent out the building they are being treated like a Anthony's concerns center anymore." "political football" in the recent around the process by which this However, the resolution was controversy between the Student resolution was passed and the passed without consulting the Senate and Dean of Students James resolution itself. When contacted by Knights of Columbus. Deputy Roemer. Dave MeA voy a short time before Knight Jim Hickey stated, "They 
"We were tainted by the whole the meeting out ofwhich this resolu­seem to think that we are a suh­process," says Grand Knight Joe An­tion came, Anthony "did not have sidiary. They don't realize that we thony. "The Student Senate's passing the time to fully discuss the pros and are an autonomous organization." the resolution without our cons of the issue." Anthony added, "Who is he (Brian knowledge of it and Dean Roemer's "We could get something set up Callaghan) telling us what we letter which unnecessarily with Roemer to get everything ciear should be doing? We run this or­threatened us -we had done no­because of the problems of last ganization the way it's to be run." thing." year," thought Anthony, "then I The main concern of the Knights 
Last week, the Student Senate ap­came up here and the resolution was of Columbus is that they were not proached Roemer with at resolution on my desk and would be in the Ob­able to sit down with the Senate and in favor of renting out party space in server tomorrow -I didn't expect go through the proposal word by the Knights of Columbus building. student-wide publication (before word. As a result, the question of in­Due to a lack of party space in the my meeting with Roemer)." surance was finally brought out into south quad, the senate tried to According to Anthony, "Mike 
see SENATE page 3
reverse last year's decision banning (McCann, last year's Grand Knight) 
Cleaning service bolts Saint Mary's 
Claire Knever, a junior Industrial Design major, uses her im· agination as a vehiclefor perfecting her class project. 

citing lack of security against theft 
ByJOHN-JOHN AMORES are to blame. 
who~e sit~ation to a landlord-tena~t Long infirmary waits 
News Staff On the other hand, Earl May, relauonshtp. "Ifyou were a tenant m director of purchasing at the Physi-a building, would you want your Plagued by theft, and at odds with 
cal Department, says that. the locks landlord to give out your ~ouse keys 
not re suit of ep1•dem1• c 
Saint Mary's over a lock change on are among t the finest avatlable, and to people that you dtdn't even 
their establishment, the Campus that security throughout the build-know?" Cleaners at Saint Mary's have ing has been enhanced. After it was determined that By MARYJACOBYNews Staff requiring the services of the infir­decided to discontinue their May said that the locks are being Shawhan's cleaning service would mary. services when their contract expires changed at Saint Mary's because not return, May obtained the There is not a flu virus at Notre For the period ofOct. 3 through 6 on Oct. 31. with the older locks, anyone who services of another laundry. The Dame, although there has been an the infirmary saw an average of I 72 
The cleaners' departure is the wanted to duplicate a key to one of new cleaners agreed to the contract, increase in the normal amount of students per day in the outpatient result of a dispute with the Saint the campus buildings could have a and May said that they would be ful­patients the paSt week, according to clinic, a suhstantial increase over the 
Mary's Physical Department over key made in a local store. "Now, the ly responsible for the clothes taken Sister Marion Ruidl, the infirmary's normal 100-120 patients per day. the installation of a master lock on new locks are stronger and more in. But Shawhan is quick to point out head administrator. Also, 18 of the infirmary's 22 beds the door of its business, located in durable, and the keys cannot be Sister Ruidl said an increase in were filled at one point.
that the new laundry service would
the basement of LeMans Hall. The copied anywhere in the area," he patients is normal for . this time of Although there were some cases 
not be the same as hers. The new
lock change is a part of a lock re­says. year. "I can graph for you exactly of the flu, students were admitted 
cleaners, she said, will simply pick
placement program that is supposed However, for Shawhan, who has what's going to happen for the year," with various other problems such as 
up the clothes, clean them, and drop
to improve security on campus. been running the cleaning service she said. gastroenteritis, strep throat, colds,
them off. They will not provide
Sandy Shawhan, owner ofCampus for the last seven years, if only two Recent complaints of long waits and injuries. 
emergency cleaning and pressing as
Cleaners, rejected the proposed people have a key to her business, for attention or admittance to the in­As for the waits, Sister Ruidl said 
she does. And since they will not be
contract because it relieves Saint that could be one too many. firmary have prompted speculation that the best solution would be to 
using the Campus Cleaners room for
Mary's ofall responsibility for stolen Shawhan has already had items about the existence ofa flu virus and hire more doctors, which is not storage in the first place, the
goods. Her insurance only covers taken from her room without any questions about why people must practically or economically feasible. 
lock the
theft when there are signs offorced forcible signs ofentry, including the problem of a master on wait so long. Currently, the infirmary employs
door does not matter to them.
entry; with the master keys she feels theft that occurred over the sum­Sister Ruidl does not attribute the two full-time doctors, Dr. Bernard that it is too easy for someone to gain mer. Many times, Shawhan has come Shawhan says that she has had increase and subsequent longer Vagner and Dr. Robert Thompson, access to the shop. to work and discovered that an in­many faithful customers in the last waiting room periods to a flu who are also on call for emergencies 
During the summer, all of the truder has been in the room. seven years, and that she regrets her epidemic, but rather to such normal when not on duty. locks were changed in LeMans Hall, "People have used my machines and decision to leave. But her buisness is factors as stress, midterm examina­"We want our st.llf to be chal­including the one at the Campus gone through the clothes, all after I dropping off because of the thefts tions, weather changes, and the lenged," Sister Ruidl ~aid. "And with Cleaners. At this time, some items have locked the place up," she says. and the resulting bad publicity, and usual sicknesses. too much staff •,, ,. would have were stolen from the cleaners, and Since she rents the room from she doubts if.she ·could continue to But there has been a definite in­Shawhan believes that the new locks Saint Mary's;, she ·compar~· the operate witha profit:·· ·, · ,· · -..,crease in the number of students see FLU page 4 


.--------------------------------------------­ -~­ ----­ 
J  
The Observer  Monday, October 10, 1983 ­ page 2  



In Brief· 
A terrorist bomb apparently meant for South Korean President Chun Doo-hwan ripped through a memorial site yesterday in Rangoon, Burma, killing four of his Cabinet ministers, the ambas­sador to Burma and several top aides. The gov ernments ofBurma and South Kort.·a said 16 South Koreans and thrt.·e Burmese jour­nalists \\'t.·re killt.·d hy tht.· t.·xplosion at tht.· Martyr's: Mausoeum minutt.·s hdilrt.· <:hun arrived filr the ceremony. They said atlc:ast 4H peopk \\Trt.· wounded, including two Burmese Cabinet ministers and I<; high-ranking South Kort.·ans. South Korean officials accused North Korc1 of t.·ngineering tht.· explosion, which devastated the 
senior leadership ofChun\ government. It camt.· on the first day ofa schnlulnl I H-day presidential goodwill tour. -.4P. · 
Ann Sutherland Harris, professor oran history at the .Juilliard School, will ht.· at Saint Mary's as scholar-in-residence today through \\.nlnesday. During her stay, she will offer a public lenure on Artemesia <ientileschi, a l...,th-century woman artist, at 7 
p.m. Wt.·dnt.·sday in tht.· Cushwa-Leighton Library Mt"dia Ct'nter. Tlwrt.· is no admission charge. llarris, who received a senior fellow­ship from the National Endowmt.·nt of the llumanitics last year. has writtt.·n over 60 books and articles, including the exhibition catalog "Womt.·n Artists, I <;<;0-19<;0," "Andrea Sacchi" and "Selected Drawings hy (iian Lon:nzo Bernini." llarris, considered an expert on Renais!-.ance ami Baroqut.· Art, <:urrently is working on a complete catalog of the drawing!-. and paintings of Benini. -The Obserr•er 
Dr. William Gray, associate professor of civil enginening at Princeton l :niversity, will join the Notre Dame faculty nt.·xt tall as chairman oftht.· dq)artment ofcivil engineering. A native of San Francisco, (iray recl'ived his bachelor's degrn· in cht.·mic•l enginening from tht.· llniversity of Caifornia at Davis in I969. Ik rt.'l"l'ived mastn's and Ph.D degrees in chemical engineer­ing from Prirll"t."ton. wlwrt.· ht.· has been teaching and conducting rt.·st.·arch .~ince Il)-..t_ I k has also servnl as director of graduate 
studies in civilt.·nginecring since 197'. (iray's research interests in­clude computt.·r simulation of flow and transport in rivers and es­ruarit.·s, physics of multiphast.· flow in porous media, paramt.·tt.-rization of dispersion in porous media and rt.·mcdial tedl­niques for groundwater pollution by landfills. -Tbe Obseruer 
Of Interest 
Ground Zero, the nuclear war t.·ducation dub on campu~. is sponsoring two films this week. "Tht.· La~t Epidemic," a .~6-minutt· lilm on the mt.·dical consequt.·nccs of nuclear war produn·d by the l'hysi<."ians for Social Responsibility, will be shown 
on tonight and tomorrow. "War Without Winners II," a 29-minute 111m on tht· arms race and the implication~ of nuclear war. will bt.· airnl on Wednesday and Thursday. Both films are going to he shown at 6 p.m. in tht.· LaFortunt.· Littk Theatre and arc free. All those in­t<.-rt·stnl in the fururc of their planet are urged to attt.·nd. 
AttorneyJames Bopp, National Right to Lift: legal counsd. \\ill _,peak at H p.m. in tht.· Library auditorium. fk will dis­nlss his attnnpt to rt·snK· "lnt;mt Dot.·" from ddiheratc starvation. -l"bt· Ohsen•er. 
Cap'n Crunch Registration for the Eating con­
tt·~t and< :ostumc <:ontt.·st runs tonight through Thursday from6 to') 
p.m. in l.aFortum·. Fin· ID's and entry fee of so; is required for registration lilr Eating Contest. Costumt.· Contest is frt.·c. -Tbe Oh­sert'er 
n.e Student Organization for Latin America 
prt."!-.t.'nts the st.Tond of its fin1r-part Central America Film Series tonight at -and I 0 p.m. at the Center f(lr Social Concerns. The ft.-aturt.· thi!-.t'\"l'ning is "From the Ashes: Nicaragua Today," and there will he an informal discussion aftn the t1rst showing. All arc invited. -Tbe 0/Jsert•er 

Weather : ­
Partly cloudytoday with highs in the upper 5Qs. Chance of showers tonight, lows in the upper 40s. Clearing and warmer tomorrow with highs in the 60s. -The Observer 


Changing Cleaners 
Changing cleaners is as easy as changing locks at Saint Mary's. To prove it, Campus Cleaners will no longer be at the College provide its service to the campus, ef­fective Ike. 31, 19H3. During the summer maintenance changed the old lock on Campus Cleaners' door and a 
installed master lock, unlocking a room full ofsweaters and suits to just about anyone with a master key. It's like having a key to The Limited at University Park Mall: clean, pressed and ready for the picking. 
Several students who had clothes in storage during the summer no longer had any to pick up. Ever since the lock change, theft at the dry cleaners in LeMans base­ment has not been uncommon. During the seven years th.ll Campus Cleaners has been at Saint Mary's, it has not b( en immune to theft; however, according tu owner Sandy Shawhan the lock change has caused the increase which is driving her out of business. 
Campus Cleaners refuses to sign the contract which is up tilr renewal at the end of this year ht.·cause of the increase in theft. The con­tract releases the College of all liability due to theft. In the past Shawhan agreed to rite' clause, hut not anymore. 'oigning the contract now th.tt tht.· new lock has been in!itallcd would.bc like ask­
ing to he run out ofbusiness. 
Too many people have access to this room. Accord­ing to Mr. Earl May, director of purchasing for the Physi­cal Plant department, the new locks arc about the best you can get and the master keys cannot be duplicated anywhere in the South Bend area. Then why the sudden increase in stolen sweaters? Every day there arc signs of people having been in the room. There is evidence that !>omeone has been sifting through the racks of dothes rearranging them after choosing her or his new wardrohe. _ 
So why change the lock~ in the first' place? May says the locks were changed to increase security. Suppo!>cd­ly only a few people have a key to the ckancrs. The school told Shawhan a m;L~tcr lock was installed to al­low quick access for emergencies such as fire or a broken water pipe. Firemen do not usc a key when it's 
~.ngling from the doorknob, and once a water pipe has busted, the dama-ge is dont·. The new lock is allowing ca~y access to just ahout anyone with a master key, other than tlrcmcn and plumbers, of course. For seven years Campus Cleaners has been providing con­venient dry cleaning service to the students and much more. Campus Cleaners presses, hems, and mends five days a week at omvenicnt hours. They even do emer­gency, last-minute work for the students -they run a 
Anne Monastyrski 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Inside Monday 

personal bus.incss. There is also a ~hoc repair service at the <:leaners which sends work to a downtown shoe repair shop. 
Since the clt-aner!> refuses to sign their death warrant they arc being asked to leave. No matter that scores of students have signed a petition to keep Campus Cleaners at Saint Mary's. 
There would be a cleaners to replace Campus Cleaners. But it would provide only a pick-up/drop-off service once a week with none ofthe personal services 
Shawhan's business docs. Ifa student is in classes and can­not get to the cleaners on that day, she will have to wait a whole week to take care of her cleaning. That is not a bad deal unless the item is a dress for that night's dance. 
How about listening to the students? The petition is concrete evidence that Saint Mary's students arc satisfied with the services Campus Cleaners provides. Students want a cleaners that will do one-day emergency service and show repair. They war11 a <:leaners that will serve tht.· 
students  at  their  <.'on­ 
venicnce,  not  one that  is  
convenient for the cleaners.  

There is an easy solution to the contract dispute. Campus cleaners would accept rt.·sponsihlity if un­known persons did not have unlimited access to the room in LeMans. The lock can he changed as easily as the last one. After all, what deaners in South Bend ha~ a master lock so that firemen, plumbers, housekeeping people and others from all ofSouth Bend have acn·ss to the business. It kind of defeats the purpose of business hours. 
Observer note________, 
The Observer neu•s depm·tmerzt reminds all repor­ters and editors tbere is a meeting tonigbt in 123 Nieuwland Science Hall. Attendance is mandatory. 




r----------------~
~-The_Obs.erYer_ 
I INFLATION (. I I GOTYOUI I 
CtJrtl/UJSition Editor ...............................J.P. 1)'/H!Sf!ilers. .. Mi<.:ht.•lk, Nick 

I BLOOD I 
N1!U'S /:'tlitor ..... Mr. Mowlt-CojJ)' l:"tlitor. ........................................ Marc Sports Copv Editor ............................... Sully 

I BOILING? I 
Ft•cltures CtJfJ_l' EdittJr ............................ R(Jb Fditorials l.t~}'otll.... . .......................... Tom 
I We can help relieve I 
Featun•s J.ayout... .. ...... Sarah and Mary .\1\IC /h~l' Editor... . .. . . . ....... Mary Annt: 
I some of that pressure! 1 
Ad /Jt•.'lign. .. ....... Mary Pbotop,rapber ... .. .. ... Not Thorn 
I HOW?we will pay you I
(;rwst AfJpt•arances.... ... <iX A<..T Com hal, Shaun an(.] jay. Scotty 0'. Brian. The 
\'okt· of l.ihhy. drt·am~ of spit. Amy 
I up to $16 CASH Per week for your time. I
(sorry ... ), Tina (sorry to you, coo ... ), a rn~ntal hlank 
I 1
It's easy. Just come in to our new modern facility relax in comfyI reclining chairs while you donate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA. I 
Quote ofthe Dt1y 
lf'h)'? ll"h)•? 
I You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your 11 second donation within the same week... AND we will give you a I free physical exam and over $60 worth of free lab tests. 
Michaeljackson 
I PLUS I
I I
We Will Give You an Additional I $41f you bring this ad with you. 1
The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) ts publtshed Monday lhrough Friday 
I '(r)i/er applicable tofirst lime donors on(y!) I 
and on home football Saturdays. 
except dunng exam and vacatton 
I I
For more information call penods The ObMrver ts publtshed 
1 234-6010 or come by515 Lincolnway West 
by the sludents of Notre Dame and 
Satnl Marys College. Subscnpltons 
., I I
Bring your J.D.

may be purchased for $25 per year 
($15 per semester) by wnttng The 
I AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS I
ObMrver. P.O Box Q, Notre 
Dame. Indtana 46556 
A National Concern Dedicated to Extending the Lives of Others I 
The ObMrver ts a member of 
I Tues and Sat 8am-5pm I
The Anoclllted PreM. All t--. r~!?'P~'!C!'~'! '.!Q.h!s_~'! r:.eJ!~':..~­
I Wed and Fri 9am-5pm .I 
~---------------­
The Observer Monday, October 10, 1983 -page 3 



Urban Plunge exposes students to realities of urban poverty 
ByPATSAIN The program, according to Doyle, SentorStaffReporter has an average of 250 students who participate each year in about 60 dif­
Nearly 250 students will spend ferent Plunge sites around the two days during their Christmas country. Applications for this year's break in the slums of America this Plunge are due Friday afternoon, and year, as part of the Urban Pl•mge. may be picked up at the Center for The Urban Plunge is a program Social Concerns, the Campus Minis­which strives to make people aware try offices, or from hall of the conditions that exist in the representatives. poorersections ofthe nation's cities. The sites for the Plunges are 
Paul Doyle, coordinator of the chosen by the students who are program, said students on the going on the Plunge itself. Upon program are not workers. The applying, a student names a city of purpose is to meet and talk to per­his or her choice to go to, and that sons, to see what the city is like, and choice is honored ifat all possible. If chiefly, to get new insights about a program has never existed in a par­people. ticular city before, efforts will be 

made to start one there. went on the Plunge because "I have programs that exist to help the poor. 
Students are put into small groups never really been exposed to the ur­"It seemed that everywhere we offour to six according to the city to ban life ofthe city which I have lived went, Uncle Sam was paying at least which they are going. "Contacts" so dose to for seventeen years. I un­part ofthe bill." within the city are in charge of run­derstand this life only in terms of 
Seidel said that on her Plunge she 

ning the actual Plunge itself "We fear, dirt, and a few shy glances out a went to a soup kitchen, and helpedlook for people in inner cities who car window." 
out by serving lunch to 140 people, are operating social programs, ·or "There are some situations which working in agencies trying to al­simply require experience to allow 

toured a Medical Center and a leviate the problems and injustices," understanding to develop," said school, and then had dinner with a said Doyle. Mary McAuliffe, a senior. "It is not Nicaraguan immigrant. 
The Center lfor Social Concerns always enough to say 'I've read 
"My experience (before the 

also knows most ofthe contacts per­about that.' The Urban Plunge Plunge), in poverty sections of sonally, said Doyle. The contacts provides the experience." 
Washington was quite limited, as 1 have schedules which are Ramona Seidel, who made a had not gone beyond looking at low-

structured so students can get the Plunge last year in Paterson, New most out of the program, and they Jersey, said "Going into the Plunge, I income, low-opportunity areas from have definite guidelines in which was not sure what types ofprograms a car window," said Brian Callaghan, the students operate, said Doyle. were available to the ...poor in student body president "lt is an ex­
Kelly Quinn, a senior who went generaL" Following the Plunge, she perience 1 will value for a long time. on the Plunge last year, said she said she saw many of the federal I urge everyone to go." 

U.S. troops alleged aiding sweeps 
Associated Press scheduled to last at least four more troops participating in anti-guerrilla months. operations. The officer was inter­
CATACAMAS, Honduras -Hon­The Honduran troops told an As­viewed in the Honduran capital, duran soldiers patrolling the road to sociated Press reporter here that a Tegucigalpa. the El Aguacate base outside this dozen armed U.S. soldiers were 
But the American officer con­

mountain town say American troops present when 100 government firmed local news reports that U.S.
frequently join them on their search troops trapped th e leader ofa rebel military helicopters shuttled somefor leftist guerrillas. U.S. military offi­band and killed him and seven com­Honduran troops to the Mosquitiacials deny involvement in the opera­panions. The Hondurans said the region near the Caribbean coast totions. 
Americans did not take part in the 
cut off any attempt by the rebels toJoining anti-rebel sweeps would firefight. 

escape back into Nicaragua by that go beyond the announced scope of A U.S. military officer, who spoke route.

joint U.S.-Honduran military ex­on condition he not be identified, ercises that started in August and are denied any knowledge of American 
At U.S. Southern Command head­quarters in Panama, officials denied any involvement in anti-guerrilla operations. 



__Ihe ObserYer 
News Department Meeting 
• • .Senate


TONIGHTat6 
continued/rom page 1 

123 Nieuwland Science Hall 
the open and negated the entire proposal. Hickey explained, "We on­


Attendance is mandatory 
ly have insurance for Knights. 
"If the Student Senate could have given us more than an hour or so notice (before the initial meeting) then we could have checked on this.'' 


If the Knights were to rent out their space, they could lose their in­surance policy. Hickey expressed a concern that they wanted to keep their policy the way it is with its al­ready exorbitant premiums.
Armanao·s Barber & Hair Sty)e Shop 
Expressing a concern for their building. Anthony commented,HOME OF THE IRISH 
1437 North Ironwood Drive Sputh Bend. IN 
"Besides the f:tct that we'd like· to Four Stylists to Serve You 
help out the campus, the only Five minutes from cam us 
d:tmage we'd ever had is when other groups come in . This is our building and we "tke pride in the building." 


Other than their concern with the 
methods used by the Student Senate, the Knights of Columbus are also puzzled by Roemer. After the re~olu­tion, free of K of C. influence, was presented to him, he wrote them a letter flatly rejecting the resolutll'{l· Also, he inferred or advised the K of 
C. to move out of its building. 
"Until I talk to him (Roemer), I won't know the way he feels," said Anthony, "(but) we're gonna stay." 
When asked what would happen if the K of C. had to leave, Anthony commented, "We'd probably ask for three quarters of a million (dollars) back and I think we could buy a comfortable house for that." 
For the future, Hickey explained, "If the Student Senate would ap­proach us personally and give us some of their hopes and expecta­tions, maybe we could work out something reasonable and agreeable to both sides. Until such a point, we're just going to smile and say, 'sorry guys, you could make aU the stands you want, but there's nothing that we're going to do to support you.' (However), we'd like to work with them." 
Grand Knight Anthony explained, 
"I got a letter ofapology from Brian (Callaghan), but I'm still waiting for an apology from (I>e.tn) Roemer. It's given us bad publicity." 


ON OCTOBER 17th! 
The Observer Monday, October 10, 1983-page 4 


SMC coffeehouse promotes talent • • .Flu 
ByJOE INCARDONA 
StaffRt•Jmrter 
The rnTnt opt·nin~ of tht: Cof· li.:ehousl' in Saint Mary's llaAAar Col· ll·~t: Centl·r ha.' t-rt·atnl a rww outlet for budding l'ntl'rtainl·r:-. of th«: Notrt: Damt·/Saim Mary's com­munity to rdtnl· thdr talents. 
Tlw <:ofll:d>ous<·, modded on a cuntTpt similar to that of Nolrl' Dam«:'s popular nighbpol "Tiu­Nazz," ollkially opened in tht· llag· gar Center Sept. 27. Although there ha:-. bn·n a cofll:chousc on the Saint Mar(s campus f(>r seVl-ral year,,, school otlkials rdocatcd thl' facility to the llaggar <:cntt·r this y«:ar when tlwy IIHmd that its previous location was inadequate. Previously, its loca­tion alternated hl·twecn the Saint Mary's Clubhouse and the hascmt·nt 
oftht· dinin~ haiL 
"We've had colkchouscs before," says Mary Ann O'Donndl, Saint Mar(s director for student ac· 

tivitics. "Our prohkm was that we rt:ally didn't have a space to have it whert· the atmosphere was rt:ally like a coffeehouse and where peopk really fdt like they could go and en­joy themselves. We figured that with the space hcrt: (in the llaggar Cen­tt·r ). if we could really open up a nice area with a better atmosphere wht·rc pn>pk would he more com­ll>rtable, then more p<!opk would take advantage pfthc place." 
Anotlwr dilli.:rcncc between the new Cofti.:ehousc and those of past yt·ars is the greater frequency of scht:dukd t·vcnts. "What is new this year is that we will have more per­formers than t•vcr heforl','' said O'Donndl. "While in the past we 
may have had only two or three cof­fcehoust· events a st·mcstcr, now we would like it to be more of a regular weekly event." 
O'Donnell said the Coffeehouse will katurc a diverse range ofenter­tainment, including some films and "comedian-type" acts as well as musical performers both from outside and from within the Saint Mary's student body, faculty, and staff. She also stressed that aspiring Notre Dame student performers are encouragt·d to participate. 

As to the success of the new Cof­li.:ehouse, O'Donnell noted that she and the student commissioner in charge of entertainment arc still ex­perimenting to find the right com­bination of interesting performers and appropriate dates for the events to be scheduled. "The only 
weeknight performance we've had so far was not well-attended, but the Friday nights have been great," said O'Donnell. "We just need to try a kw diffcrt:nt things to see when we can draw the best crowds, but I think that for the beginning of the year and for just getting started on it, we've been very plea.o;ed with the whole thing." 

Infant Doe attorney speaks tonight 
By MICHAEL SPELLMAN 
NL'u•sStt<ff 
Tht· auorney for Infant Doc will 

speak  on  kgalized  infanticide  
tonight  at  H  in  tht·  library  
auditorium.  

The attorney,James Bopp, was the lq:al reprt·scntative of the baby In· fant Doc who wa.o; allowed to die of starvation in an Indiana hospital durin~-: tht· spring of I 9H2. The ltTturt· is sponsored hy ND/SMC Ri~ht to Life. 

On April <J, I<JH2, a hahy hoy was horn at Bloomington Hospital. The hoy was horn with Down's Syndrome. which causes varying dqo:rt'l'S of mental and physi<:al rl·tardation, and also had a deformed 
esophagus which prevented him from taking food orally. 
Tht· parents, after conferring with doctors, decided to withhold in­travenous feedings, and forgo cor­rective surgery on the deformity. The hospital had refused to make the infant's condition public, and when the press did find out, the boy was on the vergt· ofdt·ath. 
There were many families willing to adopt the child. Bopp representt:d one of these families, and fikd suit to give guardianship of the baby to the state. The child's parents did not want the child adopted, and their decision was up­hdd by the Indiana Supreme Court. The baby died on April I 5, and since the parents' names were withheld for their protection, the boy is known only as Infant Doe. 

Bopp will draw on his own ex­perience in the Infant Doe case to discuss the Iegallity of infanticide 
and its ramifications. He believes that infanticide must be stopped not only because it is bad in itself, but also because it will lead to other atrocities such as euthanasia. 
Mary Ellen Harrington, resource st:cretary for the ND/SMC Right to Life, says, "You would think the right to life issue is a Catholic concern, but it isn't, and there is terrible apathy towards it on campus. It's one of our goals to educate our fel­low students and make them aware ofthe issues." 

Challenging opportunities are offered in the following areas of business management: 
• 
Finance 


• 
Contract Administration 

• 
Retail Merchandising 

• 
Food Service 

• 
Inventory Analysis and Purchasing 

• 
Transportation and Distribution 

• 
Fuel Planning and Analysis 

• 
Computer Systems 

• 
Operations Analysis 



Visit with representatives of the U.S. Navy Supply Corps to learn how your degree in accounting, economics, business administra­tion, computer science, or engineering can prepare you for an exciting business career. 
October 19

Presentation: 
Hayes-Healy Center 6:00p.m. 
October20 Placement Office 
continuedfrom page 1 

wasted talent during offperiods." 
Univt:rsity Health Services main­tains an outpatient clinic on a general "first come, first serve" basis. Emergencies are handled first, 
but Sister Ruidl said that appoint­ments are not made because of the students' odd schedules. Also the in· firmary likes to keep students who do not think they are seriously ill a 
little longer for examination to be 
sure the person is all right. 

"We don't ever do wholesale," Sis­ter .Ruidl said. Consequently, in­dividuals are sometimes· kept there were ten students in the waiting room, varying in condition. 
waiting  because  of the  thorough  
policy.  
On  a  recent  weekday morning,  

Freshman John Lavoie, who has been recovering from ga.~troen­teritis in the infirmary for several 
days, was generally complimentary of the staff and the service. 
"The nurses are very nice and 
concerned, and everyone makes an effort to see that you're com­fortable," he said. 
* * 

Ihe~t: 
is accepting applications 
for the positions of 
*Copy Editor and *Assistant News Editor. 
******************* 
Applications due 5 p.m. today 
For information contact Paul McGinn at The Observer office.
* * 
Outward Bound Is a shot of high adventure In the wilderness. And a lot more. If~ a trip thalli show you what you'rt made of. 
You can discover you can do almost anything you want-lfyou try. 
Our 3·Wt:t'k t:Xpt"rlence In sr-Jf. con(ldence sure Isn't easy. But u mlghtjusllast you the rest ofyour I!fro. 
Your first challenJe: •end for fulllnformatJon. 
N.amr 

Cit)' Statr Zip 
&hool 
PhoM 

Cht'rk tht roul'lin Ihilt lntt'rrst you 
CanoC'Lf\Je _ ~strt t'XPf'dllton--
WhuC' .-.IC'r WlldC'fRC'IIol ra(ltn,t -baC"kJMirktn~ 
Satllng _ Mountatn«"rLnR 
a.---.co. 
314AIMdPolntRd.. 
-CT00030 
_ ..._(100)2.U-102D 

No ~x~rf.~nr~ nrct'ssary Ourward Bound adrnus sludf'nl!l qf an11 
f.f!x. raror. color and national or ~thntc ~~~~a!~/;.~a~:./:C,~' o'iantzauon. 
'<"!:·~ 

Outward Bound" 
Tht courv that JV:Yer" enda
•' 

Louie'sFamilyRestaurant "special" -~----------------------~­Buya large pizzawith one item­geta FREE pitcherofpop or quartofbeer (mustshowproofofage for free beer) EJq>Lnes:l0-20~3.. linitone perpizla_______________.._.,___________,.,.. Nou'<m display: Paintings f?v local artist and St. Ma111's graduate­MelanieMirozd lfllio I·., ·;~,I 'HIIIJII 744 N. Notre Dame A~. Open Mon.-Sat. at5pm. 233-4044  

Monday, October-10, 1983-page 5






ViewP-oint 
·Coping with pressure and seeking help 
The tension hangs in the room like cigarette smoke in a barandyourpalmsfeel feel sweaty asyou pick up yourpen. You try to tellyourself!bat it is no big deal, yet you 
feel as though someone has their hand s around your neck while another person stands on your chest. 
RandyFahs 
Monday analysis 

A short while lateryou feel much more at ease. Now there is a spring-like airiness in every step you take. You've passed the test, and can relu.x: for a bit, but that captiuating monster we call pressure remains rl'ithin. It u•aits like malaria for its next chance to become active and debilitate its host. 
Academic pressure is a part of every stu­dent's life. We all feel it, but to different degrees. Some individuals deal with it better, feel it less frequently and are less likely to alter their behavior due to its effects. Others find it to be a constant menace which restricts their sleep, upsets their eating habits and exerts a negative effect on personal relationships and academic performance. 
Acertain amount ofpressure is good. With­out it we would avoid bettering ourselves. We would feel more complacent and self­satisfied. The problem is not pressure, but our ability to cope with it. 
If a person has a major exam and claims to 
feel no pressure. then chances are they are 
taking it too lightly, or they are lying. Denial is 
one way of covering up anxiety and tension, 
but it is not an adequate coping mechanism. In 
fact, it may cause the situation to worsen ifthe 
pressure continues to build without any way 
ofreleasing it. 

The individual must find his or her own way to cope with pressure, because it is not a short term thing confined only to a person's academic career. In fact, as most graduates will attest, undergraduate pressure is only the tip ofa very large iceberg. 
Coping mechanisms range from physical activity to light reading and almost everything in between. The specific method is not impor­tant, as long as the person identifies the anxiety and puts it in proper perspective. On­ly then willtht· individual. avoid suffering any undesirable side effects. 
There is nothing wrong with seeking help from a friend or trained professional if you are unable to cope with tension on your own. Too many people go around tearing their insides out as they strive for the top grade, the pres­tigious graduate school, or the important job. 
Those who are unwilling or unable to cope with the strain and tension should ask if the goal they seek is really worth it. In my mind, the long-term effects on health and personal relationships are too great a price to pay for some type ofpublicly recognized success. But for some, it is obviously a cost they are willing to bear, regardless ofwhat they lose along the way. 

I don't think the drinking age should be raised since people have to be . trusted at some age. But it shouldn't be lowered either. 
Kevin Passino Dept. ofElectrical Engineering Teaching assistant 
Yes, it should be lowered. Kids wouldn't have to sneak into bars, and they might drink more respon­sibly. There should be a consistent country-wide drinking age. 
Molly Mulligan English Classof'84 
After enjoying the pubs in London · last semester, being unable to drink as a senior in South Bend is a bitter pill to swallow. 
Dan Osborn English Classof'84 

Yes, I think it should be lowered. If people are treated more responsibly they will act more responsibly. 
Laura Dowden 
English 

Classof'87 
No, I think it should remain the same. We should keep younger people out of the bars. 
Paul Thieken Electrical engineering Classof'84 

Editorial Board Department Managers 



==Ihe_Obseaer==
Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic Hox Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (.! 19) 239-5303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
The Ohserr•er is the independent newspaper published hy the students of the Uni­Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarilv reflect News Editor ................. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . ............... Chris Owen the poliCies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as al.­News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzauuc: i..a Croix curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miotto majority ofthe Editorial Hoard. Commentaries. letters. and the Inside Column present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamiltou 
System Manager ............... Kevin Williams the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe n>mmunity, Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower and the free expression ofvarving opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. Sports Editor... .. .. \1 ichael Sullivan Founded November 3, 1966 
( 
···. 

Showcase Monday, October 10, 1983-page 6 
theatre 

Surviving by more than the skin ofits t A contedy of every ntan featuring a dizzy but dazzling ~ 
vi val? In an age ofsilent movies

by Kenneth Moore 
every man comedians missed features guest columnist avalanches by inches, stepped 
P
laygol·rs entnl·d the ()'Laughlin Auditorium Saturday night sharing thl· news that Notre Dame led .l:\ to 0 at thl· half. Notre Dame, it SlTml·d, would make it through an­otlwr wn·k. But what about the human race? Would it survive? 
<>n stage, in Excd.,ior, New jer­Sl'Y, till' Antrobu~ family falTS the crises of humanity. A nl·w ice age is approaching; the glacin ha<; moved thl· Montreal Cathl·dral to rural Ver­mont. I! is Augu~t. but it's freezing outsidt· and mammoths, dinosaurs, philosophers, prophl·ts and profes­sionals arc seeking refuge in the Antrobus home whl·rc Sabina, the maid, a tritk dizzy, but shrewd and Sl'XY, keeps lt-tting thl· fire go out. But there is hope for us all, the human spn:ks. that is. Mr. Antrobus, having invented the k-vn has almost complt-tcd the first wheel. lie has 11nishnl the multiplk·ation tables and is working on the alphabet. lie has st·parated M from N, and will return home tiumphantly, his work 
dmll'. with the lt-tta Z. What could he funnier than a play about the pratfalls of human sur-



Drop back and punt 
by Chris Fraser 
features staff columnist 
T
here is something about trivia 
questions that brings out thl· hid­
dt·n intdlcct ami bravado in people. 
>\nd tht·re is something ahout a 
boring lilothall game that can start 
the trivia qul·stions !lying. These arc 
the explanation~ I havl· devisl·d for 
thl· ~illinl·ss that took plan· in my 
room the Saturday of the Colorado 
football game. 
As you may rememhn. that was thl· wtTkt·nd when the young men of our football tl·am \'\Tnt west to challengl· the (;ollk-n Butts (that's Bufh as in llutlalm·s. not as in trivia )Uih) of the I'niversity of Colorado. \'ou probably rt·mt·mlwr that we won the gaml' and you may evl·n remember the scon·. I do not hut that i~ no matter. What I do rl·mt·m­lwr is that till' gamt· was not t·spc· dallv exciting. 
ll~·nn·. as the 11rst half progrl·ssl·d 
the trivia questions 11l'gan to gt·t 
tossnl around the room. We all had 
~omt· great qut·stion~. We also all 
had the .~a me qul·stions. This. aher 
all, wa~ not the 11rst boring game we 
had ever witne~Sl·tl. 
It was thl'n that wt· dug out the 
ICJIU Notre IJame 1-'!mthal/ Guide 
.md till' rt·al fun began. Till' foot hall 

guide is a sort ofyearbook !lllt·d with facts about -what dst·-this year's team. But it also indudes·an abun­dance of nanu·s, date~ and ligures of past Notre Danw tt·am~ and players which can be the soun.T of many an intl'ft·sting l(Ul'Stion. 
Soon. a few standard Irish lilOthaJJ .JUt·stions were raisnl. The Four llor~enu-n? Crowley. Miller. Layden. .md Swhldreher (no one l·an n·ally"'Y Stuhldrd1er so his name is al­ways slurrl·d in with the other thrtT ). First Irish player to win the I It-is man Trophy~ Angdo lkrtdli. 'Too easy," we alltkdtled. 

It was al~o halhimt· by this time .111!1 we wen· looking lilr sornt·thing to occupy our intellects. So we 
turned to some statistical questions 
concerning ycar-hy-year leaders in 
various caregories. These we based 
on information from pages I00 and 
I 0 I ofour trusty football guide. Trivia hounds wiJJ immediately recognize that such questions are not really trivia. A true trivia ques­tion must have some special point of interest. It must concern something distinct or unusual. It should bl· trivial in thl· senst· of being unique and ironic, not in the sense ofbeing arcane. 
Anyway, these questions started out being pretty f~ICt-orientcd. Irish passing lt-atkr in 197-P Tom Cle­ments. In 19~9" Rusty Lisch. Again, too t·asy. <>kay. how ahout passing leader in 19.~H. or rushing leader in 19'i7? Not only did we not know the respectivt· answers to such esoteric qul·ries (Bob Saggau and Nick 
Pit·trosante) hut we couldn't l'Ven pronmmcl· the names aher learning thl·m. 
Meanwhile. the Irish were drub­
bing the Buttlloes. Now don't get me 
wrong: we were quite plcast·d at the 
way the gamt· was going. But, for 
some rt·ason. Wl' just weren't riveted 
to tht· TV scrn·n. At least not l"n<mgh 
to prevt·nt the t(Ucstions from 
hn:oming a hit more interesting 
(silly might he a better word.) 
Irish scoring leader in 19;\'i? Ohst·urc, you say~ He also wrote a play or two. Bill Shakespeare. Lt:ading receiver in 196.j? Don't know? Jack Snow! 
A ft-w chuckles and we were of[ What Irish runner would have made a great chemistry teacher? Knute Hw.:km·" No. no. You're all mixed up. It is Emil .Sitko. ofcourse. who led the team in rushing from 19.j6 to 19·19. Not only was Rockne an end hut he actually was a chemistry teac­ht-r. Thus. somt· ruks ofour arne were taking shape. Because ofour 
resource, all answers had to be an­
nual statistical leaders in offensive 
categories. More importantly, the 
answers had to evolve from some 
peculiarity in the player's name. 
Questions took on whole new 
meanings. 
Holiest running back~ Jerome 
Heavens. 
Stately quarterback?Joe Montana. 
Outdoorsman scoring leader? AI 
Hunter. 
On the TV the Irish were driving and in our room we were on a roJJ. Our giddiness knew no bounds and some more obscure answers began to pop up. The puns were !lying. 
Back who belonged in prison? 
Neil Worden. We should have been 
locked up for that one. 
Log rolling quarterback? Johnny 
Lujaek. (Get it? Lujack as in short for 
lumberjack.) I think that one should 
have heen axed. 
Pao;sn named for a geological formation. Rocky Blier came to mind hut he was a running back. And, we learned, he never was a rus­hing leader. This game wa~ fun and edul·ational. Oh yes. the answer: Cliff Brown. 
By now, Notre Dame was sending in the reserves and our giggles were turning into guffaws. While you will he glad to know that it wao;n't long before the final gun sounded we weren't quite through yet. Priestly receiver? Paul Host. 
And finally, quarterback with a musical instrument for a name? Daryl Lamonica (if that's not an in­strument it should be). 
We were hysterical. But as our laughter died down. we realized that the final pun had gone off. Hmmmm... well, I guess you had to be there. 
Author's note: Susan Kin~. Don Sk/oss, Mike Pigott, Mike Schierel, john (.)'ll'inski, and She/~)' lm­hriaco prubabtvdon't u•ant to ad­mil that they took part in this aftenwon ofpun hut I cannot take all the credit. Please hlame them. 

unknowingly over open manholes and dodged locomotives, bullets and wild horses with a dance step. Such is the humorofTheSkin ofOur Teeth. But it's better than that, for the comedy is imbued with a love of humanity, its frailty and genius. 
The seriousness ofthe threat to the human species is made official early in the first act with a WNDU­TV new report from Mike Collins. But at home, in Excelsior, is Sabina, the housekeeper who lets us know that ali is mad confusion. The author hasn't even "made up his mind whether we're living in caves or back in New jersey." 
Mrs. Antrobus enters, asking, "Sabina, have you milked the mam­moth?" No she hasn't, and she is going to quit her job. When she tells the returning Mr. Antrobus that she is giving a two-week notice, as re­quired by law, the head of household says he'll check it out with Moses, who incidently is in the house warming himself. 
We, the human species, the 
playwright lets us know, survive on­
ly by "The Skin ofOur Teeth." Life is 
a comedy amidst impending doom. 
Sabina says let's have our fun now. 
She is ofcourse the eternal "other 
woman." Mrs. Antrobus, on the 
other hand, is the personification of 
the maternal instinct. She's a warm 
loving mother, a homely and settling 
nurturer, but ifshe has to, she'll kill 
to protect her children. 
And the children are not all that 
great. Henry Antrobus has a weapon, 
a slingshot which he aims with child­
ish treachery where it will do the 
most harm. Mother Antrobus combs 
his hair over a nasty wound on his 
forefead, that is as red as ever, and 
she would like to forget his former 
name, Cain, and just caJJ him Henry. 
Gladys Antrobus, a bouncy little 
daughter at the hopscoth age is fast 
becoming a woman. Are they the 
future of humanity? My God. 
In Act II, the Antrobus family is in Atlantic City at the convention of the Ancient Order of Mammals, sub­species Humans. Mr. Antrobus has been elected president ofthe sodety and is preparing a speech to the whole world. Sabina re-emerges as the reigning beauty queen of the convention. Did Mr. Antrohus fix it for her? Maybe so. Does Sabina, the temptress, have designs on Mr. Antrobus? Yes she does, and she decides that getting him for her own is the most important thing she'll ever do. She lures him off to a beach cabana, he seems to have no choice, but while he's there the worst of storms appears on the horizon, and he selects to return to his family, leading them and all the animals, two by two, to temporary safety. His wife is glad to have him hack, even though she knows he's nothing spe­cial. But she's moved by the promise 
that has kept them together for 500( 
years. As Act II is a testimonial to kin­
ship, thus is Act III a celebration of 
civilization. 
Act III begins following a war. War isn't all that bad, Sabina tells.us. It was exciting at times. She's not sure she'JJ enjoy the quotidicn pace of normal living in the post-war era, 
meals on time, the evening news. It's all so predictable. She likes a little ac­tion. The great minds ofwestern thought, e.g., Aristotle, Plato, Spinoza, and the wisdom that lives with us is dramatized in outrageous confusion in Act III. Also. Henry, the son, malicious, war-loving, evil in­carnate, returns from battle, ex­
hausted and still dangerous. Gladys, 
wouldn't you know, has a baby. It sort of happened. And that's the sign ofhope. Man will endure tragedy. Evil's within him, maybe even in something so basic, as the father-son relationship, Wilder suggests, but the maternity of Mrs. Antrobus keeps her son withing the family unit. We understand! Sabina told us in the first act that Mrs. A. thinks her children are perfect. 
The Skin ofOur Teeth is an American cla-;sic by a playwright whose humanity and decency are unsurpassed by any ofhis era. One must return to Mark Twain for his equal in spinning the tale ofthe human comedy. The play's every man roles present a particular chal­lenge and opportunity for the actor to test technique, style and percep­
Showcase Monday, October 10, 1983-page 7 



eth; 
abina opens at SMC 
tion. In every sense, Sabina, played by Orajones, is a brilliant success. She lights up the stage with each entrance. Sassy and sexy, she makes u~ all a friend ofthe working girl. She tells it like it is -the whole human mess, and we love her for it. 
Mrs. Antrobus is portrayed with feeling and skill by Brid~et Dolan. Her husband George speaks with authority and resonance, as portrayed byJoseph Musumeci. Indeed the voice saves the role, al­most covering the deficiencies of characterizaton. We believe George Antrobus chases prettygirls and gets himselfelected president ofthe 
society of Moose, Elks, or Mammals, but this oafcould not have invented the wheel or given us the al­phabet. The challenge is there. The 
Antrobus wife is maternal yet wise, 
her husband is paterfamilial but the 
wisdom ofhis gender never comes 
through. 
The Skin ofOur Teeth offers op­
portunities for staging and walk on 
parts. Here the presentation is un­
even. A mime opens and closes each 
act. A great ide~, but what ofthe art 
ofmime? There's none ofit here. 
Grand scenes bring a host ofcharac­
ters before us. Some knew their 
stage directions. As for character 
portrayal, the doctor was ridiculous 
(but not funny), Homer wasn't very 
blind and Moses, the lawgiver, was 
unsure ofhimself. The three muses 
were portrayed with skill and har­mony by Christina Smith, Katie Byrnes and Kathleen Loftus. The Fortune Teller, commanding in her scenes, could be even better having once decided on a particularaccent. 
The third act used projections of World War II scenesas backdrops. A sense ofthe impending threat of nuclear war is called for at this point in history. 
The playwright pays homage to the great minds ofhistory, and the omnipresence oftheir ideas. The Skin ofOur Teeth has commun­icated the wisdom ofThorton Wil­der for 41 years -the wisdom of Thorton Wilder that is-not Samuel French -who gets equal billing with the author on the program cover. A note on Wilder would in­form us that he is also the author of Our Town and The Bridge ofSan 
Luis Rey. It would remind us ofhis 
time and the mileu ofhis creativity. 
In the forthcoming The House of BernardAlba we witness the art of 
Federico Garcia-Loca, who some 
would say died for his art. His life 
and times are rich material for 
program notes. 
The Skin ofOurTeeth continues 
its run this coming Thursday, Friday 
and Saturday. It is a most enjoyable 
evening, bright and entertaining, 
hilarious and mocking. This perfor­
mance is a good one, with some ster­
ling performaces, particularly 
Sabina,who as the saying goes, is by 
herselfworth the price ofadmission. 
The problems in staging and in some 
of the minor parts are balanced by 
other little gems. (The head us­
herette in the third act is wildly fun­
ny.) But the real gem is the play 
itself, the story ofhuman frailty and 
genius, ofsurviving and enjoying life even while we face one crisis after 
another. 
' . h . ,f
Kenneth Moore ts c mrperson oJ 
the Anthropology Dept. 



Before the curtain rises. •• 
by Kerry Barnett 
features siaff writer 
. or the last four weeks, thirty-five ning oftheatre: This is achieved to architecture, English to engineer­
F

ofyour fellow students have been through teamwork. ing. You can find people backstage spending their evenings together at reading Mallory, studying Emil,
Under the guidance ofthe direc­
St. Mary's. They haven't been panty­discussing Brecht and Stanislavski,
tor, Dr. Reginald Bain, the actors ex­
raiding and they haven't been doing preparing a market analysis, or
perimented with interpretation and
water ballet in the pool at Regina. writing up a biology lab report.
expression and explored the pos­
They haven't even been enjoying sibilities in Wilder's text. The Besides representing a diversity of the new Haggar Center. They've technical director, Tom Leff, scholastic interests, cast members been workingtogether to create The designed and supervised construc­also participate in various activities Skin ofOur Teeth, the current tion ofthe set and lighting while apart from theatre. They are band production being sponsored by the Linda Wigley, the costume designer, members, Nazz performers, and ND/SMC Theatre Department. 

planned and prepared her original ROTCs. They play interhall basket­What does it mean to "create" The ideas. Both designers were assisted ball, work in the Dining Hall, and 
Skin ofOur Teeth? During there­

by a staff ofstudent workers. sing in Chapel Choir. You may even hearsal period, the play must know one ofthem without realizing progress from a script, director, and Regular production meetings it! 
thirty-five assorted students to a insured that each facet of the play All four ofthe undergraduatewell-planned and entertaining eve-would harmonize with the others classes are represented and there
and with the director's idea ofthe 
are two first-year graduate students,

production. Mary Riley, the Stage 
one in the seminary and one in the

Manager, and Kathleen Maccio, As­
MBA program. The uniting ofall

sistant to the Director, co-ordinated 
these differences to work towards a 

many ofthe factors that contribute 
single goal is one ofthe most excit­

to the production ofthe play. 
ing aspects ofparticipation in

Publicity, props, backstage crew, 
theatre.

box office staff, ushers, and Like any team, each member of 
programs must all be arranged and 
the cast and crew ofa play must con­made ready. 

tribute to the best ofhis ability, Many hours ofpreparation go into whether his task is to focus the spot­the production ofa full-length play. light, play a major role, or type u The Skin ofOur Teeth runs ap­the copy for the program. Each part 
proximately two-and-a-halfhours, is a necessary component ofthe yet there have been more than one whole; each job to be done is essen­hundred hours spent in rehearsal. tial for the realization ofthe final 
Who ar~ these "fellow students" goal: presentation ofa well-planned who give up their precious 
and entertaining evening of theatre. evenings, their Saturday and Sunday Whether this goal was achieved is afternoons, and the majority oftheir partly for the audience to decide. social lives to be part ofthe show? The Skin ofOur Teeth continues its 
Are they freaks? malcontents? malad­five-show run with performances justed? They must all be theatre this Thursday, Friday, and Saturday majors, right? Wrong. Ofthe thirty nights. So why don't you grab a 
cast members, thirteen are theatre friend, head over to O'Laughlin, and majors. The majors ofthe other judge for yourself. Come and see this seventeen range from anthropology team in action. 





1.----------------~ 
Monday, October 10, 1983-page 8·
Sports Briefs 
Saint Mary's basketball tryoutswill bt· The fourth annual running of Till.' !Iuman 
held todav. Thur~doty, and Friday from 6 p.m. to R p.m. For more Race is set for 10 a.m. on Saturday. October I'i. The I0-kilometer 
information, call 2H+'i'i4H. -Tbe Ohsen•er footrace ami fun run are sponson·d by the Broadway Christian Parbh l;nited Methodist Church and the South Bend YMCA. The race is a fund-raising event for both oq,~anizations. RegiMration forms for the race can be obtained at Broadway Christian Parish, the YMCA. the 
.The International Student Organiza-Athlete's Foot in University Park Mall, and the Athletic Annex stores tion is forming a so<.Ter team. If you are an international student in Scottsdale Mall and the University Commons. -The Observer otnd are interested in playing, sign up at the I.S.O. office, or call 232­7423. -Tbe Obsen•er 
Stepan court reservations are now being ac­Anyone interested in joining a grad/faculty soccer cepted. Any club, organization, or hall wishing court time should league, call the Non-Varsity Athletics office ( 239-6100) and leave 
complete an application in the Student Activities Office in LaFortune your name and number. -The Observer 
by Tuesday, October 18. Reservations are for the period from Oc­tober 31 to April I. Basketball and volleyball are sports which will receive prime consideration. -The Observer 
It's not too late to become a member of the Century Club. Again, just call the NVA office at 239-6100 to get on the newsletter mailing list, or stop by the office in the ACC at Gate I. -Rich Hunter's soccer team ended its weekend on a 
The Observer 
down note after picking up two impressive wins. Wisconsin­Milwaukee defeated the Irish, 2-1, in overtime in the finals of the The Non-Varsity Athletic Office has an-Wisconsin-Milwaukee Tournament. In the first game, Notre Dame 
nounced its next set of deadlines. Wednesday, October 12 has been beat St. John's, 2-0. Mark Steranka, Rich Herdegen, and Dom Driano set as the deadline for the grad volleyball tournament as well as the made the all-tournament team. On Friday, the Irish bombed Findlay, co-ree basketball league. October 12 is also the deadline for men's 6-0, as five different players scored. More details on the weekend team racquetball, a different concept for racquetball competition. will appear tomorrow. -The Observer Women's team racquetball and staff-faculty team racquetball deadlines are the same day. Ifyou have any questions, call 239-6100. 
-The Observer 
The Notre Dame cross conntry team, 
coming off a big upset ofMarquette from the previous weekend, was upset itself this weekend as Bowling Green scored an impressive victory over the Irish in the Notre Dame Invitational. A story on the
The Saint Mary's volleyball team. won its 
upset will appear in tomom>w's paper. -The Obsen;er
last home game of the 19H3 season on Friday as it beat Michigan­Dearborn, I 'i-2, 1.~-1 <;, 'i-1 <;, I 'i-9, and Ic;.7. More details on the game will appt·ar in tomorrow's paper. -The Obsen>er 
The tefm.is tealns from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Anyone with a background in springboard competed in the seventh annual Irish Invitational this weekend. diving and intnested in trying out for the Notre Dame women's 
Notre Dame had better luck than the Belles as they finished second team should n·port to the Rockne Memorial Pool at 'i:30 p.m. today. 
in the tournament, losing to Western Michigan, 4-2. Saint Mary's did 
not do so well, splitting a match with Toledo and getting swept hy Notre Dame and Western Michigan. ore on both teams will appear in toorrow's paper. -The Observer 
-Tbe Obsen•er 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
E8111  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Dallas  6  0  01.000  178 128  
Washington  5  1  0 .833  182 122  
Ph1ladelph1a  4  2  0  667  t04  t01  
NY G1ants  2  0  .333  109 t18  
St. LOUIS  1  0  t67  103 t91  
Central  
Minnesota  4  2  0 .667  130 t53  
Green Bay  3  3  0  500  16t  166  
Ch1cago  2  4  0  .333  129 123  
Detroit  2  4  0  .333  tt6  116  
Tampa Bay  0  6  0 .000  81  152  
Weal  
LA Rams  4  2  0 .667  125 104  
New Orleans  4  2  0 .667  145 123  
San Francisco  4  2  0 .667  171 109  
Atlanta  2  4  0 .333  124 118  

AMERICAN CONFERENCE Eul 
w L T Pel. PF PA Baltimore 4 2 0 .667 130 125 Buffalo 4 2 0 .667 116 123 Miami 3 3 0 .500 116 tt2 NY Jets 3 3 0 .500 132 1t3 New England 2 4 0 .333 118 144 
Central Cleveland 4 2 0 .667 118 115 Pittsburgh 3 2 0 .600 115 101 Cincinnati 1 4 0 .200 77 98 Houston 0 6 0 .000 109 174 Weal LA Raiders 5 1 0 .833 145 94 Denver 3 3 0 .500 88 100 San Diego 3 3 0 .500 170 174 Seatl1e 3 3 0 .500 126 122 Kansas City 2 4 0 .333 107 106 
Yealerday'a ReauHa Washington 38, St. Louis 14 Denver 26, Houston 14 Minnesota 23. Chocago 14 Cleveland 10, New York Jets 7 Detroit 38, Green Bay 14 New Orleans 19, Atlanta 17 Buffalo 38. Miami 35, OT 
Baltomore 12, New England 7 San Diego 28, Seanle 21 
L.A. Raiders 2 t, Kansas Coty 20 LA Rams 10, San Francosco 7 Dallas 27. Tampa Bay 24. OT Pholadelphoa t7. New York Giants 13 
Tonight's Gamu Pittsburgh at Ctnctnnatl 
The Observer Lafonune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through 
Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open from ll:JO p.m. to J p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by

Classifieds • mail Charge is ten ents per seven characters, per day. 

TYPING REASONABLE RATES CALL 287·5162. 
Wilson Dnveaway Cars ava1lable tor stu· dents to dr1ve anywhere 1n the country Call 288· 7060 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST 1 BLUE BOOKBAG. TAKEN FROM THE SOUTH DINING HALL MON .OCT 3 PLEASE RETURN TO BRIAN LEE (X6741) AS SOON AS POS· SIBLE. OR AT LEAST PUT IT BACK IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL 
FOUND. STOPWATCH AT BURKE MEMORIAL GOLF COURSE. CALL ERIC AT 8192TO IDENTIFY 
LOST· Tl58 Calculator. Noeuwland Scoence Hall on 10/5/83 Reward Call Mochael McCarthy, 8294. 
LOST one black Tl-30 calculator on 3rd floor physocs lab call8719 of found 
TO WHOEVER PICKED UP AN CALC & MATERIALS BOOK AT THE S. DINING HALL WED. NIGHT. PLEASE RETURN THEM. CALL 288·5420 
LOST: CLASSIC BLACK CROSS PEN. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE CALL BEN AT 1420. 
FOUND: one black and whrte shoulder bag wrth a red-colored bord on HMateroalos of the Mexocan-rug type. Call Mol<e 234­7080. 
LOST ONE BLUE VELCRO WALLET Please return to or call Mike. 234·7060 

FOR RENT 
wanted 2 roomates for N.D apts call 2349116 or 1101 
Female roommate wanted. Large house apt. 2BDR Close lo canpus. 1/2 rent $125. Call232-3245 or 272-4263 
COUPON BOOKLETS. ONLY 19.95. VALUED OVER $1 ,000 00 RESTAURANTS, PLACES OF ENTERTAINMENT.ETC. PROCEEDS TO CHILDREN WITH CAN· CER/LEUKEMIA CALL NANCY 784· 
263ll 

ROYAL TYPEWRITER, PICA, MANUAL. $40, CALL ERIC, 8192 
'72 VW BUG,rbll eng. B/0. Leslie x2710 
TWO ETR·18 HIGH FREQUENCY STEREO SPEAKERS. $85 00 ALSO ZENITH 7X35 EXTRA WIDE ANGLE BINOCULARS WITH CASE $40.00 CALL 272·0387 
butcherblock tooseball table tor sale Uke new call255 0116 

WANTED 
I need 6 GA to any home game. call Dan at234·8496 
NEED A RIDE TO ROCH./UPSTATE NY FOR OCT. BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL. TERRY X8725. 
NEED RIDE HOME TO BUFFALO ON WED OR THUR BEFORE BREAK WILL SHARE AS USUAL. MIKE 8719 
..............................................,................ Riders needed to Minnesota. Leaving Qc. Iober 13 Call Ann 5262(SMC) 
...................... 
PITTSBURGH Need RIDERS for 10/14­10/16. Call Jim at 1070. 
Need ride to CINCINNATI for Break. Can leave FRl.10/21.Terry6737 
Need ride to CLEVELAND after USC game and back to ND on Oct.30. Please call Pam No. 2989.Will share exp. 
Ride needed to Chicago or N.W. suburb area on 10/14. Call Chris 3417. 
HELPI NEED RIDE TO IU­BLOOMINGTON OCT.22 OR 23 $CALL HOLLY 2844113$ 
Desperately need Penn State game ticl<­ets. Call Broan at8795 
. .. •,• ......._._._._ ...
~­
HELP I NEED usc TIX CALL MARY 284­
5084 
USC·ND tix wanted. Payong most. (312) 246-4650. 
Need Non-studenl tickets to ND vs USC. Call collect, (312) 565-5959 x2013 or x2233 
NEED 2 TO USC GAME FOR GOOD OL' DAD"I Please call DAVE at891 9 
REALL Y.REALL Y NEED 4(0R 6) TICK­ETS TO PITT GAME!!CALL BILL No. 1763 
I NEED 4·6 USC GAs AND 1 USC STU­DENT TICKET: CALL PAT No 1238 
Need NAVY stud.&GA's x1695 
NEED 4 NAVYTIX.CALLCHRISAT 1201 
NEED4 NAVY GA's Call Pete 3114 
I NEED 10 G.A.'S TO THE U S.C. GAME. WILL PAY ANY AMOUNT FOR THESE TICKETS AND THEY NEED NOT BE TO­GETHER. PLEASE CALL 1779 And ASK FOR DAN 
NEED TWO NAVY GA'S CALL BRIAN 8656 
Need two G.A.'s for the Pitt. game. Call Kelly 284·4074. 
HELP!Need 2 USC or 3 PITT GA'S.Piease call JIM at 8736. 
Oh. please. I need your help! My koala bear has been kidnapped and is beong forced to listen to Cullure Clubl She won't be returned unless I get two Navy GA's! Call Vinny at 8241 rt you can help. Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. you're my only 
hope. 
NEED 3or 4 GAs for ANY HOME Game. COULD MEAN EMPLOYMENT. Call STEVE at232·0550. 
NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR NAVY. WILL PAY $$$CALL TOM 1423 
need Pitt or Navy G.A.s call Ted at rat288 0137 
Need 2 or more PITT GA. TIX: Tom at 3331 or3332 
NEED TWO GA's FOR USC. CALL KATHY AT 2966. 
Please help a student who's continuing educahon is riding on her ablity to obta1n 2 or more NAVY GA's soon. PLease call Mary Elien at 2981. A mind is a terroble thing to waste 
·-· ..... 
Need 2 USC GA'S Call BRIAN 6981 
...... .............. 

HAVE 4 AIR FORCE TICKETS. WANT TO SWAP FOR PENN ST. CALL PAUL 1703. 
HELP 

A very RICH friend needs Pm GA'a He Is willing to pay serious dollars lor the tickets. Please help by calling David at 
277-1326. You'll be glad you did 

HELP! NEED USC TIX FOR RICH RELATIVES. CALL LON AT 8763 
USC TIX NEEDED !! Student or GA -$$ CALL KEVIN x 8214 NOW I 
NEED 2 NAVY G.A.'S. CALL MATT at rat1462 
$$$$ NEED 2 OR 4 TIXS FOR USC GAME. CALL TOOTlE AT 239-7136. 
NEED 8 G.A.'S FOR PITT GAME. MUST BE IN PAIRS. CALL KEVIN AT 8636. 
NEED TWO NAVY GA'S CALL BRIAN 8656 
$$$$$$$$$$$$TWO GA'S NEEDED FOR USC GAME$$$5$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$Call Sean x8606$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ eendad 
I need 1 or 2 USC STUDENT TIX. PLEASE CALL BILL AT 234-7080 
NEED AIR FORCE TICKETS: CALL JOHNAT1881 
NEED 2 USC STUD OR GA's. Call Dan 1022. 
NEED NAVY TIX CALL ERIN 2773 
............................................. 

NEED 2 USC STUDENT OR G.A'SWILL 
TRADE TWO PITT G. A'S CALL ROBERT 
AT 288-5814 

DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA NAVY TIX-­CALL ERIC AT 1465 
NEED USC TIX. CALL 1695. 

HELPI I need 4 Navy GA's. Call Dave at 1801. 
NEED 4 OF THE BEST GA's for USC (40 yd line or better) Money no object! Steve 1178 
NEED 4 STUDENT Tic's for USC. Smitty 1178 
Help! I need one AIR FORCE GA. call Paul 8737/8736 • 
I NEED 2 USC GAs. CALL JACK 277­3315 . 
HELP!I I need 2-4 USC or PITT GA lixlll Please call· Julie at 4434! 

PERSONALS 
ATTENTIONIIIIWSND REMOTES ARE NOW AVAILABLE FOR ALL OCCA· SlONSI FOR THE LOWEST PRICE AVAIALABLE YOU CAN HAVE A PROFESSIONAL OJ, ENGINEER AND ALL THE MUSIC YOU CAN HANDLEII THE FOLLOWING DATES ARE NOW 
AVAILABLE: OCTOBER 8, 14,15,21-­NOVEMBER 4, 12, 17, 18 AND DECEM­BER 2,3,9, 16,17. TO RESERVE YOUR DATE CALL REGINALD DANIEL AT 283-1153 AFTER 11 P.M. OR AT 239­7425 TUESDAY FROM 3PM TO &PM, AND JIM GALLAGHER AT 239-7425. THAT'S WSND REMOTE5-THE BEST EQUIPMENT ,THE BEST MUSIC, AT THE BEST PRICE Ill 
NEED 2 USC TIX CALL MARY AT SMC 4433 '· 
SMC-NOTRE DAME SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LONDON AND ROME. COURSES IN TEN DIFFERENT AREAS. INFORMATIONAL MEETING OCT. 17, IN ROOM 228 MOREAU SMC AT 7 PM. INFO. CALL AP. BLACK 284-4460. 
RIDE NEEDED TO COLUMBUS, OHIO. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL HOWIE AT x1765. 
I need PITT GA'a. Call David at 277­1326. 
URBAN PLUNGE •• , URBAN PLUNGE 
Urban Plunge applications are due Oct. 
14. Get the applications from your dorm representat/V&s, at the c.nter for Social Concerns, or at Campus Ministry. 
For en experience u.t wlll leal • 
-... 
Ju.t when I thought I had 1111 the ..._., they cllenged the q.-lonL Jual when llhougtlll had tlcUia they aold them. JU81 when I thought my deer friends from L.A. couldn't come out, aome nice peraon will eell me 4 G.A.'ato the USC game. PLEASE HELP BY SELUNG ME YOUR TIXS • MIC­
HELLE 284-4138. 
Desperately need USC t1ckets! Student or GA. Call284·5502 
l..osten pal, thos is how old TUT really is...21 Will he lose the battle? Will he dis· appear? Will he go 0 for 4? 
Hey Beth, gove me a call ~ you're not doong anythong tonoght. Love, the dirty old man tram the Holiday Inn. 
Need 2 or 4 tickets to Pitt game. G.A. thai is. Please call 131 1 and sell me your tick· ets. 
WASH OC, MD, VA BUS SIGN·UPS WED OCT 12 7-8 PM LAFORTUNE LOBBY PRICE· $65 BRING MONEY TO SIGN-UPS. LV 10/22 AT 7 PM 
I poly the sucka who ain't sellon' me two Navy GA'sl You got one mo chance or you dead meal! Call Mr. V at8241 if you got em! 
HEY MIMI AND JENNIFER WHEN ARE WE GOING OUT?? (DREW'S BUYING) 
ROAD TRIP· NO/Army Game-14.15,16 Oct. $60 package incl. lockets, transpo. accomodations, party. Call David 272· 6815, Angoe 7515. or Tom 6891 
RB POLL WEEK OF 10/3 Rob 4·1(4)32 Bob 2-0(2)30 Joe 4· 1 28 Larry 1-3 17 John 1-412 Adam 0·3 7 
MO AND THE MARRIOT, A GREAT COMBO I 
Study program on MEXICO·SJYing Semester. PROGRAM IN GLOBAL COMMUNITY. Interest meeting: Tues.. Oct. 11, 7pm, Center lor Social Concerns. 
HAPPY NINETEENTH BIRTHDAY HAP· PY JACK!I from the VERMIN I 
ELLEN HAPPY BIRTHDAY Finally rn.M M18ye.._ Loveye. YourFrlenda on4N 
THE BLUES BROTHERS WED OCT 12 2rM HAGGAR 7&9:30 CARROLL ONLY 1$ SPONSORED BY SMC JUNIOR CLASS 
MRS. ROBINSON WE HAVEN'T HEARD MUCH FROM YOU. I GUESS ITS BEEN SNOWING TOO LOUD. POOL SHARK AND SIDE KICK. 
Steve Zahn is a Man·God! 
3 DAYS UNTIL MIKE ROBERTS BIRTHDAY SAY HAPPY BIRTHDAY BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE 
a belated HAPPY BIRTHDAY to the nut· liest guy .KEVIN GARDEN YOU DANCE MACHINE 

I ~ 

The Observer 
FLORIDAHOMESAND HOMESfiES 
Amyou seriously considering thepurchase 
ofa homeorhomesite in Florida? Obtain 
thefacts andfigumspublished f?y 
floridaTrendMa~zine, 
offered free f?yHomeRealty, yourloadFloridaagent. 
233-9403 

..home realty 
Oclober 10 Monsieur Hulot's Holiday 119531 France Otrected by Jacques Talt 8, W, 85 mtn Taft stars as the well·meamng and d'E!hghtfully tnept M Hulet In lhts ftlm he turns a seastde vacahon tnto a flawless senes of stghtgags the hkes of whtch have not been seen stnce Keaton's heyday 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
'-----~r '() ~ 11 '171ti lr--$.._:?·-0 -0 "' 





MultipleChoice 
Don't leave your dinner to guesswork.
D 
3oz. (serving) 
Protein 12g Fat 10g 


• 

Domino's Pizza is the best Coke available choice. Just 2 slices are 16 oz. bottles more nutritious, lower in 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
fat and higher in protein 

Umlted delivery area. 
C)1983 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
than either a taco or 
cheeseburger. 

Nutritional information from: Table 1. Nutritional Analyses of Fast Foods, 
So give us a call and put 

United States Agricu~ure Research us to the test. Service. 
r·······-···-----------,
I 

Mondays only. 
I 

Only $6.99 for a 16"
I 

1·item pizza plus 2 16 oz. bottles of Coke. 
I I $6.99 
I 

One coupon per pizza 
I 

Expires: 10/31/83 
I 

Fast, Free DeliveryN
I 

1835 South Bend Ave.
I 

Plaza 23 Center
I 






I Ill. 
Phone: 277·2H~,1,.,,,.,., ,•u~
I 35167/2650 ...~ -· -· .. ~.• 
I 
I I 

~----------------------~ 

Monday, October 10, 1983-page 9 
• • . Rotnp 
continuedfrom page 12 
yards per carry on the ground and 82 total passing yards, but they thoroughly intimidated and pressured the opposition with an in­tensity unmatched in the previous games. The defense has also come to terms with the option (veer) which has traditionally frustrated Notre Dame defensive squads in the past. 
Notre Dame's offense was consis­
tent and effective although the 
Gamecock defense nearly rallied at 
the first part ofthe second half 
On the first Notre Dame play from 
scrimmage, Pinkett ran the baH for 
53 yards to the Carolina I9-yard 
line. Unfortunately, an interference 
call set the Irish back 1 5 yardswhere 
johnston kicked his long 49-yard 
field goal for an early Notre Dame 
lead. 
On the next offensive drive, 
Beuerlein hit Mark Bavaro for 21 yards and then completed a short pass to Chris Smith who ran the ball 27 yards for the touchdown. The Irish needed nine plays to go 68 yards. 

During the next Gamecock posse­sion, the Irish defense pressured quarterback Allen Mitchell to throw an interception into the waiting hands of Chris Brown. The offense then drove the ball to the Carolina 29 wherejohnston booted home an­other three points. 
The Irish did not stop, though, capitalizing on a Gamecock fumble to score three more points on a 4I­yard field goal. 
With II:33 left in the half, Beuer­lein connected with Pinkett for the final score of the half. Beating a Gamecock linebacker, Pinkett grabbed a short bullet and took off for 59 yards, giving the Irish a 23-0 lead going into the lockerrrom. 
The game got a little more 

Student Organization for Latin America presents CentralAmerica FUm Series 
From theAshes:Nicaragua Today 
Mon., Oct. 10 7:00& 9:30 
Centerfur SocialConcerns Discussionto fOllow 7:00 show FREE 

Exciting Things Are Happening at Daniel's Deo Lounge Ramada Inn South Bend 
Back by popular demand March 21·26: 
The Great Sleepy Martin  
M·Th  Dollar Drink Nite  
on bar liquor & domestic  
beer  
F·Sat  Each person will receive a  
2 for 1 drink ticket  
Sun  We are now open Sunday 8-12 pm  
·."'ith live country music by  
Whiskey River Band  

52890 U.S. 33 North of Cleveland Rd., South Bend, 272-5220 
interestingin the third quarter when the Gamecocks scored a touch­down. However, they failed on the conversion, making it 23-6. 
South Carolina made one final bid as they moved to the Irish 8-yard line. However, on fourth down, Mike Gann caught Gamecock quar­terbackjim Desmond for a nine-yard loss. 
Notre Dame then proceeded to put an end to it, as Pinkett capped off another fine day by scooting around the left side for the final touchdown ofthe day with less than five minutes remaining, 
October B's Game 

NotreDame 13 10 0 7 30 
South Carolina 0 0 6 0 6 
Scoring 
NO-Johnston 49 FG 
ND -Smith 26 pass from Bauerlein (Johnston 

kick) 
NO-Johnston 27 FG 
ND-Johnston 41 FG 
ND -Pinkett 59 pass from Bauerlein (Johnston 

kick) 
SC-Hagood 1 run (pass failed) 
NO-Pinkett 2 run (Johnston kick) 
ND SC 

First downs 17 16 
Rushing attempts 48 48 
Net Yards Rushing 199 157 
Net Yards Passing 163 82 
Passes camp-attempted 9-14 10-25 
Had intercepted 0 2 
Total Net Yards 362 239 
Fumbles-lost 1-1 5-1 
Penalties-yards 9-105 8-90 
Punts-average 4-49.5 5-38.6 
Individual Leaders 
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Pinkett 23-110; Smith 
11-75; Brooks 5-24; Francisco 5-12; Beuerlein 3--8; 
Kiel 1-14; South Carolina: Hagood 14-79; Dendy 9­
33; Lewis 7-23; Hillary 1-1 0; M~chell9-5; Desond 8-7; 
PASSING-Notre Dame: Beuerlein 9-13-0,163; 
Kiel 0-1-0.0; South Carolina: Mnchell4-14-2,14; Des­
mond 6-11-0,68; 
RECEIVING -Notre Dame: Sm~h 3-45; Pinkett 
2-61; Howard 2-20; Bavaro 1-21; Favorite 1-16; 
South Carolina: Dendy 4-41; Poole 2-37; Hagood 1­
6; Hillary 1-4; Lewis 1-2; Berry 1--8; 
Attendance -74, 500 
. . . Ball 

continuedfrom page 12 
The pitching will have to hold up 

this weekend when the Irish travel 
to Bethel College for another 
doubleheader. Again Gallo wiilllook 
at his younger players. More cuts 
still need to be made and Gallo said, 
"We'll probably decide at the end of 
the fall." 
On Sunday the squad will be at Valparaiso for the last doubleheader of the season. Victories this weekend possibly could give the Irish the confidence Gallo wants for the spring season. 
COUNSELINE A service to the NO community 239-7793 HOURS: 4-10pm Mon-Thurs. Counseline is a free, confidential telephone service that offers professionally taped materoals I hat cover a Wide va~i~~~-~~.-~!udent concerns  
TAPE NO TITLE 1 Fnendshtp Butlding 7 Oeal•ng w1th Construct•ve Cntrctsm 8 Dealtng with Anger 9 Understandrng Jealousy and How to Deal wtlh 11 10 How to Say "NO'" 16 Becommg Open to 04hers 18 Dattng Sktlls 30 Anxtely and Posstble Ways to Cope with II 32 How to Deal wtfh Lonlmess 33 How to Handle Fears 35 Butldmg self-Esteem & Confidence 37 Aela~emg Exercises 38 Copmg Wtlh Stress 39 Female Sex Rote-· Changes and Stress 44 Learnmg to Accept Yourself 61 What rs Therapy & How to Use II 83 How to Cope wtll': a Broken Retattonsh1p 85 Understandtng Gnel ~ Helptng a Fnend 160 Early stgns of an Alcohol Problem 161 Respons1ble Dec1S1ons About Drinktng 402 Self-Asser11veness 431 What is Depress1on 432 How to Deal w1th DepressJOn 433 Depress1on as a Life Style 478 Becommg Independent from Parents 479 Dealing with Alcoholic Parents 491 Su1c1da1 Crisis 492 Recogm.ling SUICidal Potential in Others 493 Help•ng SO_rf!~?~!!.~~-~-SuicJdal CriSIS  
Counsefine is a completely anonymous service otter"d by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9-5 • ··CLIP AND SAVE·­ 

The Observer Monday, October 10, 1983-page 10 

Basketball ticket distribution 
Monday All seniors 
Tuesday Juniors and all undergraduate students in the ninth semester or higher 
Wednesday Sophomores, graduate students, and law students 
Thursday Freshmen and any student who missed his/her appropriate day 

All tickets are being distributed at Gate 3 of the ACC from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

Octobet 10 
Slngln' In the Rein (19521 USA-MGM 
Otrected by Gene Kelly and Stanley Oonen Color, l 0 1 mtn 
Gene KeHy and Oebb1e Reynolds are learned 10 perhaps the 
f1r1est musiCal comedy ol all lime, set ctunng the era when the 
mov1es were chang1ng from silent to talkieS · 
1

Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission
$ 2. 00
T t() ~ II f3 t-J·lr......._ ___, 
Burn's Creative Costume Shop 
608 Liberty Drive, Mishawaka 
259-4807 Fulfill Your Wildest Fantasies \tVith Our Costumes 

Dancing Beer Cans Sequin Gowns 
Birthday Cake 
Leprechauns 


Sequin Jackets
Spiders 

, Bee ,.
Fly 

AND MANY MORE Student Discounts Stop in to Reserve No Deposit with Notre Dame or St. Mary's ID 
HOURS: Mon.-Fri. 9:00am-5:00pm Sat. 9:00am-12:00 noon Extended Hours for Halloween 

Mondays Only 
Bruno will deliver a 
16" with any toppings for $6.95to'campus FREE 

277-4519 Open 4-11 7days a week 
NFL roundup 

Co-wboys pull out another -win 
penalties.  tied it 35-35. Miami had gone ahead  
Elsewhere, it was Buffalo 38,  for the first time on rookie Dan  
Miami 35 in overtime; Cleveland 10,  Marino's 14-yard pass to Mark  
The Dallas Cowboys remained the  the New York Jets 7; New Orleans  Clayton with 3:06 remaning.  
National Football League's only un­ 19, Atlanta 17; Washington 38, St.  Houston lost its 13th in a row as  
beaten team -barely -with a  Louis 14; Denver 26, Houston 14;  isiting Denver, ranked 28th in the  
comeback 27-24 decision over the  Minnesota 23, Chicago 14; Detroit  NFL in total offense with an average  
winless Tampa Bay Buccaneers on  38, Green Bay 14; Baltimore 12,  of 245 yards, had 262 at the halt  
yesterday.  New England 7; Philadelphia 17,  Steve DeBerg, replacing No. 1 draft  
The host Cowboys won the coin  New York Giants 13; the Los Angeles  pick John Elway at quarterback,  
toss to start overtime and marched  Rams 10, San Francisco 7; San Diego  threw for:! ~o scores. Rich Karlis  
into Buccaneers' territory. Rafael  28, Seattle 21; and the Los Angeles  kicked four field goals and Sammy  
Septien, given another'chance after  Raiders 21, Kansas City 20.  Winder rushed for 165 yards for the  -,  
Tampa Bay's Thomas Morris  Buffalo, shut out 12-0 in its last  Broncos.  
roughed him on a futile 50-yard field  meeting with Miami, edged the Dol­ Rookie Eric Dickerson, the NFL's  
goal try, moving the ball to the  phins on Joe Danelo's 36-yard field  leading rusher, picked up 142 yards  
Tampa Bay 28, hit a 42-yarder.  goal. Joe Ferguson also was a hero  and the visiting Rams' only touch­ 
Dallas, 6-0, tied the game with 43  for the Bills as he passed for 419  down. Chuck Nelson kicked a 41­ 
seconds to go in regulation as Tim­ yards and five touchdowns,  yard field goal for LA and Ivory Sully  
my Newsome completed a 52-yard  completing 38 of 54 passes against  blocked Ray Wersching's last­ 
scoring pass play by tightroping  the NFL's No. 1 pass defense. Fer­ second field goal attempt.  
down the sidelines the last 35 yards  guson's scoring passes went nine  At San Diego, the Seahawks built a  
with a Danny White pass. Operating  and 30 yards to Byron Franklin, 11  21-0 margin, but the Chargers  
with no time outs and 79 seconds to  yards to Booker Moore, and four and  charged back. Andre Young streaked  
play, the Cowboys went 74 yards in  one yard toJoe Cribbs.  40 yards with an intercepted pass to  
five plays for the tying score. Ron  Danelo's game-winner came after  score the winning touchdown with  
Springs caught three passes before  Miami placekicker Uwe von  2:04 to go. Quarterback Dan Fouts,  
White and Newsome hooked up.  Schamann missed on field goal at­ playing his third game with a broken  
The Bucs, who were humiliated  tempts from 52 and 43 yards in OT.  wrist, ignited the 21-point second·  
only a week ago 55-14 by Green Bay,  Ferguson's fifth touchdown pass  half rally by hitting Bobby Duck­ 
outplayed the Cowboys despite  of the game, a one-yarder to Cribbs  worth on a 59-yard TD strike in the  
having more than 170 yards in  with 2 3 seconds left in regulation,  third quarter.  

BANKING•••NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's new office, located at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to St. Mary's and Notre Dome students and faculty. 
In addition, our newest office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours • Monday through Friday Mon. thru Thurs. 11:30 a.m. -3:30 p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service! 
~source ~Bank 
Member F.D.I.C. 






PROGRAMS 
Sponsored by the COUNSELING AND PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES CENTER IINlVERSITY OF NOTRE OANE 
BUILDING SELF-ESTEEr1: A program designed to help students ide'ntify thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that affect self-esteem, and to explore and practi.ce new ways of increasing positlve feelings. 
BEGINNING DATE: Wednesday, October 19, 1983 TIME: 6:30-8:30 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: __5"--­
RELAT!ONSHIP ENRICHMENT: A program designed to teach partners to communicate effectively and enhance their relationship by learning about exploring and practicing new skills to express their feelings in constructive ways. Both partners are required to attend. 
BEGINNING DATE: Tuesday, October 18 1983 TIME: 6:30-9:00 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: _...:_4__ 
DEVELOPING ASSERTIVE BEHAVIOR: A rrogram designed to help students to realize the importance of assertiveness, recognize and increase assertive behaviors, and distinguish assertive responses from bther behaviors. Each student will have the opportunity to practice assertive behaviors through the use of role play techniques. 
BEGINNING DATE: Monday, October 31, 1983 TIME: 6:00-8:00 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: _....:._5__ 
STRESS MANAGEMENT: This program will focus on skills to successfully deal with stress. The purpose of the group will be to help students better understand the nature of stress, how it affects them, and how they can effectively cope with stressful factors in their daily lives. Each student will be nssistcd in desigining his/her own stress management program to meet his/her own individual needs. 
BEGINNING DATE: Tuesday, November l 1983 TIME: 3:00-5:00 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: ---'-4__ 
MEN 1 S AWARENESS GROUP: The purpose of this group is to bring men together co examine the effects of being born male, the sex role expectations men have, the responsibilities of being male, explore new ways of dealing with the demands made on males, to help students understand and clarify their own personal needs as males, and discover new ways of relating with others. MetTibership is restricted to males. 
BEGINNING DATE: Wednesday, October 19, 1983 TIME: 7:00-8:30 p.m. NO. OF SESSIONS: All semester 
TO ENROLL: CaZZ the CounseU'1!il,ari;fsy~h~'Jtl..Se~ices Cer.t.er at 239-7336 between 
9:00 a.m. and 5:00p.m., Monday· -F'"i"iday. To participate in some of the groups, you may first need to make an appointment to see the leader. AU groups have limited enrollment, so call or come by soon if you are interested. 
The CounseZirlfl and Psychological Services Center iP located or. the 3rd. floor of the Student Health Center. 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­




'JI['~~C3L~----------------------------------------·M•o•n•d-ay_,_o_c_t_o_b_er--10•,•1•9•8•3---p•a•g•e•l--l 
Bloom County 


~------------~ 
PeNOOIN: A SMALL-OCEAN 131R!7 -mAT 5Mat-5 OF OW, wer HU5HPUPPif5 ANI? WHICH HA5 ANO~ IHf 51lf 
Of MA55Ac.HUSU1S ... 
I 


You KEA.LLY UK.r IT?
1H£ !1£W MAU.'S PKEfTY 
S~CI<tr TO ME LiKE AN
Cool-. 
~WFUL LOT OF UMCI(( lfND I WIILKWif~ Tl/lfr Q0 CVEieY· 
.( 
WlfY CXC£Pr THE W'lfY 5rtA()£NrS (¢l 


Mellish 
MADMAN,HOWDJD Gmt: Wf.LL, 
YOUR SHORT STORY DONALD. IM .J'UST NOW PUITING THE mUSHING 
TOI.IC~ES ON IT. 


fHAT 'S WHI!r I M{N</ 
ffS I! NEW FK.r>/JTt£1(. 
HE C~RESAll HE CAN, HOWEVER, THOIIG H HE MANAGE~ To C.HECK THE A'llfUL DIS~~E 1 ~~ 
CANNOT SAVe HINSELF. 
HE DIES A HE~o •. 

ACROSS 28 Gross 1 Food for components 
hogs 29 Dregs 5 Ireland 30 Malt 9 In re beverage 
13 Bone: pref. 31 Fuss 14 Soul 34 Dolt 16 Mslt 35 Ophidian 17 Baseball weapons 
players 36 Cabbage 19 Franchot Item of films 37 Land: abbr. 
20 More 38 -Python inclined 39 Carapace to cry 40 From that 
21 Reached time 
heights 42 Eyelid 23 A Guthrie droop 24 Permanence 43 Tristram's 25 Sign of pal 
the zodiac 44 Inadequate 
Saturday's Solution 

Will you ever live on the moon or planet hesburgh? Will your children do their homework and write papers on your family home computer? Will you hear 'Radio Moscow' on your Walkman because of satellites? 
Find Out! 

Dr. Gerard K. O'Neill "Our next Century on Earth·and in Space" 
8 PM Library Auditorium Tuesday Oct. 11 
NOTE: one 1tudent will be ..locted to attend • p,.locturo dinner with Dr. Onle/1. In 25 word1 or loss stele whr rou would enJor dining with our gue•tlecturer. Return to: Acedemlc Commission, 2nd floor L.IJFortune br Mon. Oct. 10 wltlr: nemo, eddreSI, phone number 
Berke Breathed 
AC.TUAU.Y, I MAPf MY NOS£ IHAT UP. ANI? I AWAIT A (.AVISH 
Photius 

C'/'ION, UT'S C~o~r /I(UIS'; THC (?Rifss HEK£. 
I 


Dave & Dave 
THAT'S V~RY NOViNI>,NA~I.fAN. WMT'5 TilE TITLE~ 
I 

''PRAIRIE PR,OCTOL061~T' 
Campus· 
•7 
p.m. -Social Concerns Film Series, "From the Ashes: Nicaragua Today," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by SOLA, Free 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Claiming Our Uves: The Quest of the Woman Writer," Dr. Sonia Gernes, Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Sponsored by N.D. Women's Caucus. Open to the public 

•7:30 
p.m. -Scholastic Writers' Meeting,Scholas­tic Office 


TV Tonight . 
6p.m. 6:30p.m. 7p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 10p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
llp.m. 11:30p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 

16 MASH 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel of Fortune 
16 Boone 22 Scare Crow and Mrs. King 28 That's Incredible 34 Survival Special 16 NBC Monday Night Movie: "Adam," 22 After MASH 28 Monday Night Football: Pittsburgh at Cincinnati 34 Great Performances 22 Newhart 22 Emerald Point N.A.S. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 34 Big Red Football 16 Tonight Show 22 Hart to Hart/ Columbo 28 Newswatch 28 16 Late Night With David Letterman 
The Daily Crossword 


©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 10/10/83All Rights Reserved 


Will you ever tip a ro~ at your favorite restaurant? 

Far Side 

"Look out, Lorry! ... That retriever has finally found you!" 
45 Elaborate 46 Serving 'to combine 50 Novello the actor 51 Dessert 
items 54 Dear­55 Pacific 
island group 56 Roman 

family 57 Being: Sp. 58 Celt 59 Punta 
del-

DOWN 1 Greatest number 2 Tennis 
name 3 Greek porch 

4 With raised 
levels 5 Painters' needs 6 Preface, 
for short 7-Grande 8 Ruler: abbr. 9 Reach 
10 Wall St. ploys 
11 Former Chief Justice 12 Was in dabt, 

15 Court sessions of a kind 
18 Wearies 22 Hedge with 
a guardrail 24 Blurred 25 Agreement 26 Capri 27 Quick 
drink 28 "Inferno" 
author 30 Old weapon 32 Limp watch 
painter 33 Night birds 35 Most loving 36 Deficit 38 Thaw 39 Calmone 41 Grating 
in sound 42 Of bridges 43 Cobbthe 
journalist 44 Cleanse thoroughly 45 Riverto the Seine 47 Eisenhower 
and Turner 48 Opening 49 Essential 
being 52 Swine 53 Stop­
dime 

Come On ·N· Give It a Try 
The Fall Festival Variety Show Sign-up 
All interested acts are needed to sign-up before October 11 with either Mary Hronscek (3352) or Curt Shim (152n The show will be November 1 Prizes will be awarded tor the 


----------~----­
Monday, October 10, 1983-page 12 
Angry Irish shut up 'Cocks, cro"Wd 
By SCOTI BOWER Beuerlein, who threw his first two Sports Writer touchdown passes as a Notre Dame: quarterback to Allen Pinkett and A Columbia disk jockey a.o;ked an Chris Smith, played his role with audience of disgruntled Carolina more than due modesty, giving fans:"Gamecocks, can you take it?" credit to the size ofNotre Dame's of· 
Apparently not. The U.S.C. home fensivc line and stressing the skill of crowd which was expected to be a the Irish running game. major game factor, went anemic a.~ "After all," stated Beuerlein, Notre Dame trounced the "being a freshman I still need to be Gamecocks, 30·6, in a very ag· brought along." gressive game of football. The The freshman quarterback com· record crowd of 74,500 quickly pletcd 9 of 13 passes for 163 yards. diminished as the Irish and Mother Tailback Allen Pinkett, who also N~ture dropped a lot of rain on recicved a touchhdown pass from South Carolina. Beuerlein, was the key to Notre 
Carolina was a quick, aggressive Dame's running game. Pinkett ran opponent still pumped up after for II 0 yards on 23 carries, exceed· beating Southern Cal, 38-14, last ing 100 yards for the fourth time this week. Unfortunately for the season. Gamecocks, the Irish got tired of Placekicker Mike johnston also criticism and decided to play tough. contributed greatly to the scoring The Notre Dame squad took the by kicking three field goals, includ­field and quickly set out to in· ing a career-best 49-yarder.

Steve lleuerlein feels some beat butgets offa pass to 

timidate the 'Cocks as well as the "We played with great intensity
fullback Chris Smith (32) that Smith turned into a Beuerlein touchdownpasse. For more on the game, see 
crowd. and realy kept loose throughout the
first down. Earlier, Smith bad caught the first oftwo the story at right. 
The importance ofshutting down entire game," said Johnston. "It wa.o; the crowd or twelfth man was em· just a matter of time to to put the phasized by quarterback Steve pieces together."
Fall baseball season Beuerlein who had another fine day Things really came together for in charge ofthe Notre Dame offense. the Irish defense which played a su­"We had to keep the crowd perb game. Not only has their per­
NO splits t~o ~ith Le~is 
down," said the freshman. "It was formance improved, allowing only 3 
still hard (after scoring) to hear the see ROMP, page 9
calls." .\ports Writer had men in scoring position," said Freshman Ken Soos had two hits Gallo. "We just didn't get the fly and was hit by a pitch. He did not If you hear the crack of a bat com· ball." play this summer due to a blood clot 
By SEAN CALLAHAN "From the second inning on we tions. He saw much he liked. 
Nebraska has close 
ing from Jake: Kline: Field, you're not The Irish pitching in the second in his shoulder, and he won't be able hearing things. Although it has not game against Lewis appeared better to throw until the winter, although been publkized much, the Notre than their hitting. Although Tom he obviously can hit. 
one, Texas rontps
Dame baseball team is busy with its Conlin took the loss, Gallo said, Dan Harrington, a transfer senior, 
version of the exhibition sea.~on -"Tom pitched a good five innings. I played well also, getting a walk along Associated Press Oklahoma State, unbeaten but the fall sca.o;on. was fairly pleased with the way he with two hits, including a three-run also unranked, gave mightyLarry Gallo, Irish baseball coach, did." double. 
Nebraska all it could handle, but the received one more: of the victories Conlin gave up three runs, two Kevin Rudge, a freshman, Cornhuskers, who had routed five he desires in this fall exhibition earned, in his five innings, striking impressed Gallo by going two in· Top-rated Nebraska had its first previous teams by a combined score sea.<;on when his team split a out five and walking three. Gallo has nings and giving up one run. The run close call of the season, while of 289-56, survived 14-IO on a pairdoubleheader yesterday with Lewis been pleased with his pitching staffs came when "he made a very foolish runner-up Texas whipped eighth· oftouchdown passes by Turner GilL University. control n:cently, but one ofthe men pitch when he was way ahead," ranked Oklahoma and defending na· It was their 16th consecutive tri· The Irish are now S-3 in what Gal· Conlin walked ended up scoring. according to Gallo. Another fresh· tiona! champion Penn State umph, longest streak in the nation. 

lo has termed a "profitable and prct· "It seems every time we walk a man, Mike Woodcock, "played well continued its comeback from a "At least I don't have to explainty successful fall." He explained, "I man he ends up scoring," Gallo com· all weekend." 
rocky 1983 start by beating third· why we didn't run up the score,"think the fall's important, because plained. "I found out a lot about our 
ranked Alabama. said Tom Osborne, who became the it's something to build on in the Buster Lopes, who relieved Con· pitchers this weekend," said Gallo. were the highlights of a
Those winningest coach in Nebraska his· 
spring." lin, gave up no walks or hits, and Despite the loss of Brad Cross, Gallo rare college football Saturday that tory with 102 victories in 11 So far the Irish have made this fall faced the minimum six batters in his said, "Our pitching has been okay. 
ran mostly true to form -except in seasons, surpa.~sing Bob Devaney. "It worth building on. They even two innings. Most of his outs came We're not walking people." 
Stillwater, Okla.. and State College, was fun to play full-out for 60 played well in yesterday's .3·1 loss of on short fly balls. "His pitches were see BALL, page 9 Pa. minutes and not worry in the second the nightcap. They got seven hits moving a little, jumping around. 
half about how not to score and all and nine walks, getting many run­That's why they popped it up," Gallo that stuff. Everyone's been saying ners on ba.o;e. In each of the final six explained. 

we're unbeatable and we wanted a 

innings the Irish had a man in In the first game, which the Irish 
close game like this." 
s<:oring position but only managed won 5·4, the pitching again was In Dallas' Cotton Bowl, Texas, one run. good. Freshman starter Dan Sacchini trailing 10-7, struck for three touch· "To say we didn't get the timely threw four-and-one-third innings, downs in the third period, cappedhit would be an understatement," giving up two runs and earning his by freshman Edwin Simmons' 67· said Gallo. second victory ofthe fall season. 
yard jaunt, and trimmed Oklahoma In the second inning, after walks "He pitched a good game, but Dan 28-16. 

to d<·signatcd hitter Carl Vuono and has a long way to go," said Gallo. 
"Edwin Simmons gives them an third baseman Jim Dee and a Mark Clementz relieved Sacchini, extra dimension in the runningsacrifice by catcher Brian Gibbons yielding two runs but nonetheless game that they haven't had in a few put men on second and third with picking up a save. The final out was years. He is going to be a great one out, Steve Passinault struck out made by Moran who stopped the player," said Oklahoma Coach Barryand Rich Vanthournout bounced to ball diving to his right and quickly Switzer, whose standout sopho·the shorstop to end the inning. getting up to throw out the runner. 

more, Marcus Dupree, wa.'i held to The next inning was similar. The Irish made better use of their 50 yards on 14 carries. 

Second-baseman jack Moran ba.o;crunners in the first game. Down Penn State, which lost its first followed outfielder Mike Wood· 2-0 in the bottom of the fourth, the three games this season, evened its cock's single with a walk, and a Irish scored three runs. With two record at 3·3 by rolling up a 34· 7 sacrifice by outfidder Mike Trudeau outs and the bases loaded, Mike An· lead on Alabama, then withstandingagain placed men on second and gclina singled in two runs, and an· a furious fourth-quarter rally as thethird with one out. After first· other run scored when Moran Crimson Tide suffered its first lossbaseman Mike Metzler hit a short fly reached safely on an error. 
(34-28) in five starts under Coach 

to right for the second out, Vuono In the next inning they added two Ray Perkins. 
walk<·d to load the bases, but Dee more runs. Shields singled and, after Alabama was on the Penn Statestruck out to end the threat. Vuono flied deep to left, Dee hit the two-yard line when the game ended The Irish left the bases loaded game-winning home run into a stiff after officials had ruled that tight end again in the fifth. With two outs and breeze in left. 
Preston Gothard did not have pos·Trudeau on first, Vuono singled and "Dee's home run was, of course, session of an apparent touchdown Dec followed with a walk, but the in· the bigshot ofthe game," said Gallo. 

pass on the previous play, althoughning ended when Brian Gibbons hit On Saturday the Irish played what replays indicated otherwise. 

a line shot right at the ccntcrfielder. Gallo termed "JV games" against Elsewhere, fourth-ranked North In the seventh the Irish again left Glen Oaks Community College. 
Carolina trounced Wake Forest 30· three men on base. With two outs, Glen Oaks won 3· I and I 0-6, but the 10, No. 5 West Virginia wa.<; idle,pinch-hitter David Clark singled and games will not appear on the Irish sixth-rated Ohio State downedfall record.

pinch-runner Casey Snyder moved Larry Gallo's Notre Dame baseball team is swinging away Ibis 
Purdue, 33·22, No. 7 Auburn to third. A walk to another pinch­Gallo used these games to "play a fall as it works out some of the kinks for the important spring 
trounced Kentucky, 49-21, ninth· hitter, Tom Shields, loaded the bases lot of different kids." He used many season. The team basplayed well sofar, including a doubleheader 
ranked Florida defeated Vanderbilt,for Woodcock, who, nonetheless, of his newcomers, wanting to see 

split with a tough Lewis te_am yeterday. For more, see Sean Cal­
29·1 0, and No. I 0 Arizona thrashedstru<·k out to end the game. how they would react in game situa-laban's story to the left. 

Colorado State, 52-21. 




