• • • The Bindery -page 7 

VOL XVII, NO. H3 rlw indqKndcnl 'tudnll 11t'\\ 'paper 'lT\ ing notre dame and 'aint man·, THURSDAY,JANUARY 27, 1983 

Keenan Revue costs triple from last year 
ByVIC SCIULLI decided against chargu1g for tickets 
Assistant News Editor 
to raist: the additional money 
needed. "This is our ( Ket:nan Hall's) The product:r and director of tht: gift to the community," Fahs said.
Keenan Revue have estimated that "They want to be entertained. We this yt:ar'!> production cost of S3,300 g<:t a lot out of it. We like doing it." 
is thrt:e timt:s the amount spent last There has never bct:n a charge for year. Tickets, howevt:r, havt: tickt:ts in the st:vt:n-year history of rt:maint:d frt:e, sine<: a varit:ty of the Rt:vut:. 
sourct:s havt: covered the additional Organizers of tht: Rt:vut: mad<: expenst:s. 
tinancial solvt:ncy one of the goalsThe largest single t:xpense, tor this yt:ar's production. "We hadS 1 ,900, is the fee for the use of to keep the hall trt:a!>ury out of thisO'Laughlin Auditorium, wht:rt: rht: year's Revue," Magana said, notingRevut: will be held. Randy Fahs and that past Revut:s havt: put the hall in­David Magana, tht: Revut:'s product:r to dt:bt. 
and dirt:ctor. learned earlv last Charging studt:nts for tickt:tssemt:stt:r from O'Laughlin Tt:c.hnical 
would havt: raised the pricetag ofManager Randy Brown that the use tht: Revue. KeLnan currently pays a
of tht: auditorium would cost lower let: for us<: of the auditorium
S2,300, more than twice last vear's since it is a non-protlt organization.
figure. · Charging for tickt:ts would change
Fahs and Magana, set:king to the Revut:'s cla!>sitication and, con­
reduce the sum, spoke with William
Saint Mal)•'s sophomores (from left) Mary jo 
sequently, the tee.
Hickey, vice-president and dt:an of
Hogan. Cathleen Colfer, Chris Hart, and Man• 
Fahs and Magana receivt:d S1,000faculty at Saint Mary's. Hickey
Beth Bruton enjov the finer pleasures of life t~t 
from James McDonnell, dirt:ctor of
brought tht: rt:qut:st befort: College student activitit:s. who. they said,
officers, who eliminated tht: rental
Psych Services 
was very rt:ct:ptive to their request.
fee, rt:ducing the total cost to The Saint Mary's Studt:nt Activitit:s$1,900. 
oftict: was "sympatht:tic" but couldIncluded in this is the use oflights, not providt: any mont:y, Magana


Eating disorders confronted 
a sound system, a · piano, said.
microphones. three hired By MIKE WILKINS mention," he noted. The study groups were started last employt:es to lights Another S8SO was obtained in a
run the and 
SeniorStaffReporter Anorexia nervosa is a form ofself­year in an open-ended form. but this sound, ckanup and st:tup. November raftk. Fahs and Magana starvation that causes people to lose year the groups are mort: structured, printing tickt:ts purchased of tht: prizes,
Tht: of and two two 
Recently, a great deal ofattention up to 2'; percent of their body discussing a particular toprc each programs, the purehast: ofprops and tickt'ts to tht: Pt:nn State game from 
has been given to eating disorders. weight. Though it is more common ~::vening. This semestt:r the group make-up, and refreshmt:nts for the Steve Orsini. tickt:t managt:r at the 
in high school, it is still a major will bt: meeting every Monday night
especially anorexia nervosa and rt:ception after Saturday's pt:rtor­ACC, and a dinner for two at Eddy's 
bulimia. The two problems have problem with college-age students. 
mance makt: up tht: additional costs. Restaurant. Tht: tootball tt:am con­
see EATING, page 4
become so widespread that Notre People with bulimia tend to eat large Revut: organizers, however. tributed an autographt:d football. 
Dame Psychological Services has quantities of high-calorie food and 
decided to do something to help stu­then vomit or use laxatives or large 
dents learn to deal with them. amounts of exercise to purge their 
Dr. Dan Rybicki and Psychologi­systems. Both disorders involve in­Rush lecture 
cal Services have formed special tense fear ofbecoming fat and can be 
study groups to inform people about very damaging both physically and 
eating disorders and teach them mentally. 
Activist cites youth problems
what to do to help cure the Rybicki noted that current statis­
problems. tics indicate that approximately one 
By CATHY PAX 
only a myth.
Rybicki says that well over SO per­out ofevery I 5 people has an eating 
major role tht:y play in the li.S. cent of his caseload is taken by disorder. That statistic is on the rise, StaffReporter She cited as an t:xample the govnnmt:nt. Rush ft:ds otht:r people with either anorexia nervosa but doctors are not sure if that is be­American nuckar weapons that sup­Americans must act against this
Young peopk on college
or bulimia. "A lot oftimes it may be a cause there are more people with post:dly are aimt:d at the Soviet moral injustice also. Sht:
campust:s refuse to fact: problems 
missik locations. Sht: asked almost
problem that people who are in the disorders or because more paraphrased tht: Epistk ofJames: "If
that are vital to their future, accord­
humorously if tht: govt:rnmt:nt was
other treatment have and don't even peo~le are reporting them. you don't act on what you bdievt:,
ing to \-lolly Rush, a Catholic peace 
planning on tiring tht:se missiks as a you rt:ally don't bdieve it."
activist and member of Plowshares 
rebuttal after tht: Sovit:t ont:s had kft 
Rush bdit:ves "tht: most human
8, a local activist group. 
ti>r the U.S. Rush poimed our~ that

Republicans oppose 
and moral way to livt: one's life is to
Rush spoke yesterday night in the 
then tht: military would be aiming all be in contlict with the nuckar arms
Holy Cross bast:ment to a group of 
its power at empty silos. Sht: used system."
approximatdy 25 Saint Mary's stu­
this argumt:nt as basis for her claim Apathy on t he part of tht:

nuclear referendum 
dt:nts as part of the campaign for tht: 
that the Amqican governmt:nt is Amt:rican public is decreasing,By CATHY PAX "arms reduction talks are dept:ndt:nt l;nilateral Nuclear Freeze Referen­planning a first-strikt: offensivt:. 
howt:ver. Rush has noticed that
Campus Campaign Reporter upon equality betwet:n the two dum. 
Rush described the Pentagon as "pt:opk are opening up and becom­
bargaining nations," said Lynch. "Young people have dneloped a an entire office building devott:d to ing more responsive and acting onThe Collegt: Republicans are con-The I -tO-member organization is system of blinders," said Rush, so war and (.kstruction. "If's sort of a tht: problem of nuclt:ar arms."
ct:rnt:d that students will not contident that it will bt: ahk to that they can avoid dealing with catht:dral of the L:.s." Sht: belit:vt:s Rush rt:commends mt:ntal andrt:cognizt: tht: diftert:nce betwt:t:n a defeat the proposed rdert:ndum. issues such as war and pt:ace. She that the amount of mont:v allocatt:d spiritual opposition to the Americanbilateral and unilatt:ral freeze said a common reaction on college to tht: Pentagon b an a~curare in­nuclear arms system as a tlrst step ofreferendum. Campus campuses today is that students "just of tht: nation's
, dication Amt:rican 
want to live day to day." protest. "Wt: can all find ways toIn order to educate the student soul.
~ Campaign 83 rd'use to coopt:ratt: with a svstem
body about the referendum, the Rush bdivt:s that studt:nts art: With this realizarion in mind, 
that is bent on our destructio~," she
leadership of the College painfully awart: of the nuclear arms Rush contident will
is Americans said. Tht: common practice of livingRepublicans has decided to actively They will be distributing informa­crisis, yet bt:cause offear they refuse rt:alize that "building wt:apons that day to day and pot thinking about oppose the Unilateral Nuclear tion that emphasizes the difference to think about it. "Thq-'re scart:d to threatt:n the livt:s of hundreds of tht: future is only coopt:rating withFreeze Referendum. between a unilateral and bilateral death !>O they block it out." thousands ofpeople must be viewt:d the system, according to Rush.
The Republican leaders feel that a freeze to the student body. In a uni­Rush bdievt:s "a whole genera­as a moral qut:stion." Rush con­The Thomas Merton Pt:ace Movt:­unilateral freeze would be unaccep­lateral freeze, the t:nited States tion has to be awakened and con­tinued. "You can't care about the ment that Rush chairs in Pittsburghtable and dangerous to the security would stop production of nuclear frontt:d with its rt:sponsibility." She poor or hungry childrt:n and build has organized telephone bill andof the l'nited States government. weapons regardless of the Soviet stated that peopk who refuse to bombs." 
income tax evasion as an effective ~lark Lynch. chairman ofthe College Lnion's actions. look to the future or hope for The probkm with Amt:rican means of prott:st.
idt:alism not
Republicans, said that the organiza­Lynch said that most of the mt:m­are full peopk. defenst:, according to Rush, is that Rush's own major form of protesttion believes that the thn·.. , of bt:rs ofhis organization as wdl as tht: "Getting a job and earning a lot of "we're putting all our st:curitv into was ht:r activity with tht: PlowsharesAmerica's initiation of a nuclear war majority of Notrt: Dame studt:nts mont:y is not a good rt:ason for life." 
bombs instt:ad of in a God ofl~vt:." 
8 group. The group dt:rivt:d theirkeeps the Soviet Lnion from ag­would support a bilatt:ral frt:t:zt: Ru!>h said that the Amt:rican She asked another question, "How name from a Biblical passage that or­
gressive action. "The l nited States rdt:rendum. public continually is "bt:ing brought 
can you lovt: your ndghbor with a dered swords to bt: beaten intomust always have the weapons to Chris Bt:t:m, chairman oftht: Two­to an acct:ptanct: ofa military system bomb under your arm'" 
plow!>hart:s. They t:ntt:rt:d a Gent:ralcounterattack." said Lynch. Campus Nuclear Freezt: Coalition. that is continually being Rush said that she realized in 19""9 
Electric plant in Pennsylvania toThe most important reason that a said ht: b not surpr!st:d that the Col­revitalized." It must stop and realize that the nuckar arms race was more dt:stroy two nuclear \varheads byunilateral freeLe is unacceptable to leg<: Republicans are opposing the that tht: term "defense" when a moral than political question and 
the College fi.epublicam i' that unilater.ll freeze. applied ro the deft:nse department is decided to prott:st actively the 
see LECTURE, page 3 
~------~ 
· 
Thursday, january 27, 1983 -page 2



NewsBrie_b 
======~======~~============================~ 
Bv The Ohsen·a and TIJI' Associated Press 
Martin E. Marty, professor ot the history of 
modern Christianity at the University ofChicago, will give a lecture entitled "Tradition: Conservatively Radical, Radically Conservative" tonight at H in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Marty is associate editor qfThe Christian Century and author ofseveral books, among which the most recent are The Public Church: Mainline­Et'angelicai-Catbolic; Healtb, Medicine and Faitb Traditions: An Inquiry' into Religion and Medicine, and A Cr)' ofAbsense: Reflec­tions jor the Winter oftbe Heart. !\>~arty's lecture. which is free and open to the public, is sponsored by Notre Dame's theology depart­ment. -Tbe Obserz•er 
President Reagan's sneak preview of his 
19H.f budget was panned yesterday by congressional critics who want much deeper cuts in military spending. Senate GOP leader Howard Baker said the administration faces "a real donnybrook" on the issue. House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill agreed. and vowed that Congress would look both at the Pentagon and a possible repeal or scaledown of this year's tax cut in the quest to stem Reagan's projected detkit of S 1 H9 billion in fiscal I9H-l. Democrats, sounding a long-standing complaint about Reaganomics, said it was insensitive to America's needv to call for a selective freeze of social programs while keeping the .Pentagon's checkbook hip-pocket warm. "I can't see that there is fairness." said Senate Democratic Leader Robert Byrd. Byrd, of West Virginia, said he plans to organize task forces among Senate Democrats to come up with alternatives to Reagan's prescription for reducing deficits while ending the recession. -AP 
The third big blow of the week flogged 
California with tree-toppling wind. booming surf and driving rain 
ye~terday. washing away beaches, wrecking property and dnsing 
harbors with mudslides and sand. The California storms that began 
over the weekend had killed at least five people, including a highway 
worker swept 300 feet down a ravine by a mudslide Tuesday. As 
yesterday's downpour arrived. a foot ofrain was forecast in the Santa 
Cruz Mountains, about 90 miles south of San Francisco. where IH 
people died when mudslides crushed several homes last january. 
Officials in Fresno, Calif .. were making plans to convert three miles 
ofa freeway into a giant storm sewer. Beachfront residents in coastal 
cities stacked tons ofsandbags to protect their homes against a high 
tide coupled with 15-foot waves, which tore boats loose from 
moorings. -AP 
The Reagan administration, while claiming 
human rights progress in El Salvador, admits that evidence points to the involvement ofSalvadoran security forces in two mass murders. That and other allegations of official abuse were in a State Depart­ment report to Congress. last week that concluded that the Sal­vadoran government "is making a concerted and significant effort" to protect human rights and deserves continued U.S. military aid in its war with leftist guerrillas. The human rights certification is re­quired by Congress every six months as a condition for El Salvador to receive that aid which will total at least S26 million this year. The report also cited "compelling evidence" that Salvadoran security forces were responsible for manv of last vear's civilian disap­pearances, estimated at between -!50 and H50. And the report ack­nowledged that in previous six-month periods there were "substantiated reports of widespread abuses" stemming from government military operations. -AP 
An unusually large number or deaths from 

brain cancer and other tumors of the head among workers at the Rockv flats nuclear weapons plant sparked new calls yesterday for independent monitoring of the n;ltion·~ atomic program. AstudY hr Los Alamos ~ational Laboratory shows the incidt·ncc ot death from brain cancer and unspecitled head tumors among workers and t<>r­mcr workers at the Colorado plutoniuni plant over 26 years could be nearly twin· tht· national average. While t·xpressing concern. Dcpa~trncnt of Energy officials maintain the epidemiologic stmlics show no connection between plutonium, orH" of the most toxic sub­stances known. and the deaths. Other researchers, who arc as· sociatcd with critics of the Rocky Flats plant, questioned the . objectivitv of the Los Alamos study and accused govcrmcnt scien­tists of attempting to conceal new and important evidence relating 
to brain tumors. -AP 
The remaining section of a nuclear-powered 
Soviet spy satellite is expected to fall into Earth's atmosphere and 
burn between Feb. 6 and Feb. 10, the Pentagon said yesterday. Last 
week, Pentagon oftlcials ~poke generally of mid-February as the 
period in which they anticipated the return of that section which 
thev believe contains the enriched uranium nuclear fuel that 
po~'Cred the spy satellite's radar. L'.S. observers on the British­
owned island of Diego Garcia reported seeing the main hulk, weigh­
ing about H,OOO pounds, as it tumbled into the atmosphere over the 
mid-Indian Ocean last Sunday. The smaller section, described as 
weighing about 200 pounds ~nd about a -neter or less in length, 
continued to circle in orbit. Experts say it probably contains about 
IIO pounds ofradioactive fuel. As of II :30 a.m. EST yesterday, it was 
in ·.tn orbit that came within 125.6 miles of Earth. It had dropped a 
little more than u mile in the previous 27 hours. North American 
Aerospace Command experts calculated its probable re-entry 
during the period between I p.m. EST, Feb. 6, and 2 p.m. EST, Feb. 
10. That "window" is likely to narrow in the days ahead. -AP 
Sunny and cold today with the high in mid to upper 20s. Fair and cold tonight with low in the teens. lncreasmg cloudr­ness and warmer tomorrow with the high in the mid 30s. -AP 

Thimk 

I tbink, therefore I am. 
Anyone who has ever sat through Philosophy I 0 I should recognize Rene Descartes' assertion concerning the proof of his existence. But if human existence is dependent on thinking, then we could all be in a lot of trouble. 
Thinking is such a versatile aspect of human life. Philosophers thrive on it, college students shrink·from it, Russians aren't allowed to do it, and politicians often pretend they know how to do it. The versatilit;· <>fthink­ing is matched hy its great importance to our lives; not the kind of thinking involving what choice of b.:er to purchase for the upcoming weekend, but real thinkmg, using the old cranium to analyze, synthesize, draw con­clusions and make inferences. We probably don't do as much real thinking as our predecessors did. We may memorize a lot of what we are taught in college, but rarelv are we challenged to really think. 
Th.e ability to think clearly 

Michael Monk 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Thursday 


that is not a misprint. 
The so-called average American is becoming no more than a passive receiver of int<>rmation. He stares at images tlickcring on the television or hears sounds emanating from the radio. The use of the mind, the in­tellect, imagination, are all threatened by this revolutionary age in which we live. Computers do our planning and teach our children, calculators do our homework for us and prolonged exposure to the sheer idiocy of most television programs rots our minds. The 
ability to think clearly and 

and to communicate logically is eroded with each thoughts in a lucid manner meaningless rerun of Gil­are probably the most ligan's Island. In a recent valuable assets a person can report THe New York Times possess. But are we using supported what many our intellects to their fullest people have known for a capacity or are we allowing long time; the intellectual our brains to erode and impotence and the d<;cay from lack of use' If deterioration in thinking vou chose rhe latter asser­skills is caused mostly by tion, you thought right. And "the influence of television you're not alone. Many col­viewing (and) the lessening leges and other learning in­of reading for pleasure ..." stitutions are realizing that Many schools, such a~ their students can't think Marymount Manhattan Col­and are taking Meps to teach lege, have taken this seriou~ them the thinking process. problem to task by requiring 
Many people, especially all students to take such young people who have courses as "Critical Think­
caught the full, diverse ef­fects of the communications revolution, have drifted through life without ever mastering the ability to analyze and synthesize information. Others have had this valuable ability at one time, but their brains now lie 
in state due to lack ofstimulation and challenge. 
The tremendous impact of this extraordinary age of electronics is evident in the computer and communica­tion svstems industries. It is abo largely responsible for helpi~g transt<>rm our cerebral matter into so much mush. One of the reasons: television (surprise! ). A recent study bv the Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) reve.aled that the average American adult watched over I,500 hours of television in 19H I. That's over tour hours a day of such intellectually stimulating programs asjuanie Loves Chacbi, Fami~}' Feud and the ever-popular and ever-inane /Jukes of Hazzard. The same studv showed that adults spent onlv ..,0 hours that year readi;1g books ( t<>llowed closely hy playing video games!), and hlltr hours attending cultural events. No, 

ing," which explores the analytical skills essential to learning. At Notre Dame such courses as Freshman Seminar and the Arrs and Let­ters Core Course train students how to think clearly and logically. But much more is needed. Course~ on the process of thinking are fine but we can't treat them like we do calculus and forget everything as soon as the test is over.. Thinking must be a constant and challenging process if we arc to conquer the problems and dilem­ma~> facing us each day. 
Havelock Ellis once said, "The greatest task bet(>re civilization at present is w make machines what the~ ought to be, the slaves. instead of the masters of men.'' Although Ellis said that over HO years ago. his message is even more relevant today. \X'e cannot allow ourselves to become the slaves to our own creations. And the most effective way to prevent this tragedy from happen­ing is through thought. 
Think on that for awhile. 
The Observer lh•:;,gn Fditor... . Kc:n <.t·rahona nesign ..tssistan/ .... ... ~arah ltamilton \lan Ileal\ l.a)•out .\laJf. .. .John Kraft, ~vhd ~moot Trpesellers ... Bnu..T & Burnhlmg l~ahhu \t•u•.... l:'tiLfor. . J(.\11 Harnngttm COfJI'f'tlilor. Belh lloac~ett. Tun :\cd~ feature.... l.lll'OUI .. \kntor \1u!'-umct:i & a ~tar <tt H!'J zt:nith t:ditorials l.a)'tntl .... Tari Brown II&7'/.tiJ'Oit/ ... .. hJ Konrady .\ports (.O/Jl' l:'tlitur.... ......Janl' IIt-all'\' \'/J /Jal' l:'ditor .. Ann Hail<'~ ~H(.' /)cl}' lidilur..... Bruce< )akll'y TJ•jJisls .\tar\' Beth Porter Art Oe.<l!/11 ... .. . .....\larilm \.ark in Photographer ................ Ed Carroll Guest Appearances ....... A-.!'lorted Stud~ in ~weat~. ;\;cec.Jk,~. kntT~ ~mall. R1cco. ~upervi,ing ~zal\'a!) ..Arrtvedt'Tt.:i Amcnca..  
The Observer 1USPS ~98 !1201 1; Publ<shed Monday lhrough Fflrlay and on home loot\)all Salurdays excepl dur<ng exam dna vacal<un pefluds The Observer <S published by lhe sludenls of Notre Dame and Sa•r: Marys Col lege Subscr<pl<ons •nay be purchased lor $25 per year iS 1~per semesler 1by wr1t1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Noire Dame lnd<ana 46~56 The Observer •S a •r.ember ol The Associated Press All repruduLI<on nghls are reserved Second Class poslage pd•d al Nulre Dame ind<ana 46556  

After your last exam, what toughquestions will you still be facing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions. · 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact: 
Re\. Andre Leveille. C.S.C Vocatton Dtrector Box 54\ Notre Dame. IN 46556 
219-239-6385 
-.--­

-------------. --------------------·----­
·rhe Observer Thursday, January 27, 1983 page 3 



U.S. defense system 
... Lecture 

harmless to Russians
She s~~y., ~.;.:;.: h,,..., "no id-.:J. if any­
continuedfrom page I 
By BILL HOGAN nuclear deterrence may be con­
thing l'\e uont: changes ont: iota ofbeating them with hammers. This 
Neu•s Stclff sidered morally acceptable."
this arms ract: to destruction." She act of dbarmament was "reallv, real­
"Since beti:)re the Kennedy Ad­does fed, howevt:r. that her actionly scary to me." ~aid Rush. The eight 

The United States has the ministration," said Rice, "the Unitedhas hdped ht:r to bdit:ve in theprayed together for three to four 
capability to build a defenst' systt"m States and the Soviet L:nion havefuture.
days beti:>re entering the plant carry­that will not "kill a single Russian," been t<>llowing the policy calledRush supports tht: unilateral
ing hammers and baby bottles full of according to Professor Charles Rice MAD," which stands for "Mutually
freeze movement because it ti:>rceshlood under their coats. After 
in a lecture last night sponsored by Assured Destruction."
Americans to view the: problem notdestroying the: wc:apons the: group the Thomas :\-lore Society. This nuclear defense policy isin the light of tht: arms race. but in acirclc:d around them to pray. Thc:y 
The system, calkd "high frontier." based on a "continuous buildup of
deeper. moral sense. The bilateral were arrested, tried. and convicted. utilizt"s "off-the-shelf technology" to gr~::ater and greater offensive powef,
fret:ze is more conct:rnt:d withRush, a mother ofsix and grandmot­destroy Soviet strategic nuclear without any civilian defense," saidpolitical stratc:gy.
hc:r oftwo. ha~ spc:nt I I week~ in jail. 
weapons in spact". Rice. Each country is "holding tht'RLt~h was ont: of tht: three: womt:nand may have: to r<:turn. 
'"High frontier' is morally accept­other's cities hostage."
consulted hy the Amt:rican bishopsRush finds fault with an American 
abk to the tt"aching authority of the Rice said that :\lAD is morally con­in tht:ir war and peace study. ~hemc:dia systc:m that forces people to 
Catholic Church bt"cause it can only demnable according to tht: Church'swas the only woman who was not a 
act radically. "There's somc:thing 
be used for national defense, which just war teaching, which states thatmember ofa rdigious order. 
wrong ahout our idc:a of what is is a right -indeed a duty -of the in ordt:r ti:>r a war to be just, it mustRush will spc:ak again tonight in 
news that force:~ pt >pie to drastic 
statt'," said Rice. have a defensive purpose and it mustthe llayt:s-Healy Auditorium at -::\0. 
measures to gc:t a cau:.e puhlicizc:d." 
Rice began tht' talk by quoting the be a last resort waged by the proper Second Vatican CounciL "The tt:ach­authority. "Mayor Part'nt could not
Junior Parents' Weekend ing authority of the Church rests declare war against Franct'," said with the pope and the bishops in Rice. union with the pope." Nuclear weapons are "a genie 
\X'hile "thert' has nc:ver been any which has het'n let out oftht' bottk,"

Event captures large response 
statt'ment bv the teaching Church said Rice. "and I don't think you're tions. that war itself i~ immoral," said Rice. going to put it hack." As a result, the
By BILL O'BRIEN bet:n made for more than :\,000.
Since early last fall, the "no ont' has spoken more ckarly ''critical distinction is between of­
.Vews Staff Other activities include academic
16-member executive committee about the arms race and disarma­fensive and deknsive weapons sys­
workshops, a performance at Wash­
has hdd weekly meetings to make ment than Pope John Paull!." tems, not ht"tween nuckar and
The number of replies to invita­ington Hall by tht' singing/dancing
plans for the :\I st annual Junior Rice cited a recent spt:ech gi\-c:n non-nuckar weapons."
tions for junior Parents Weekt:nd show choir Shenanigans, special
Parents Weekt"nd. schedukd t(Jr by the Popt'. "Tht"re is no other ra­Rice calkd the proposed "high
has ht:t:n much grcatt:r than last showings of the movie Wake Up tbe
Feb. 18, 19, and 20. tional and profitable path than that frontier" ddense system "exciting,"
year. reports Amy Seach: an ex­Ecboes, hall parties and a closingA cocktail dance at Ct'ntury Cen­of disarmament ...kt us promist' because it would dt'tt'r nuclear at­
ecutive coordinator of tht: program breakfast on Sunday.
ter will open the festivities Friday "I definitely encourage all juniors our fcllowmt'n that we will tirelessly tack by defensive mt'al}s, whert"ascommittee. Invitations wert: st:nt 
night. Previously held at Stepan Cen­to participatt', ' including those do our utmost t(>r disarmament and \lAD relies upon fear of massiveout last November and. as of Tues­ter. this will he the tlrst time the whose parents art' unable t'J attend," abolition of all nuclear weapons." nuclear retaliation ti:>r deterrence.

day, --to families had madt: n:serva­opening event ha., taken place off said Shari Terpin, committee chair­However. the Pope has also said "There are things we can do t(>r 

campus. 

man. that "under curn·nt conditions, ddense." said Rice. 
A Mass at Sacred 1-lt:art Church Juniors art' reminded that the Saturday afternoon will be t<>llowc:d deadline for reservations is :\-londay 
SMCleaders 
by the President's Dinner at the and that seating arrangements will ACC Seach noted that this dinner be determined in the basement of
appointed to traditionally has marked the high LaFortunt" :\londar_and Tuesday at­point of the three-day occasion as p.m. t(>r those who wish to bt' seatt:d evidenced by its large attendance. near friends at the President's Din­

top positions 
This accommodations have ner.
year 

By SCOTT HARDEK 
\'taff'RefJr!r/er 
John Duggan, presidt·nt of Saint 
:\-fa!!·'s, and William Hickey. \·ice 
president and dean of faculty, 
rect:ntl\ were appointnl to top 
kadership positions for the upcom­
ing Indiana Conferc:nct: of Higher 
Education in :"Jovember. 
Duggan, who sen-c:s as prc:sident­
clect of this year's conference, will 
begin his term as president of the 
conference in 19H 1. 
Hickey will t·hair a separate 
meeting of deans at the conference, 
a position he assumed last ~0\Tm­
b,·r. 
The conference diSCL\sses issues 
pertinent to inMitutions of higher 
learning, explained llickey. It meets 
annually in central Indiana. and this 
\T,tr. as in the past few \-cars. the 
location will be Indianapolis. 
The agt'lllla of the conference in­cludes two sets of meetings. first will he a joint discussion between the presidents and the deans. after which the two groups will hold separate meetings. ~ubjects regular­ly discussed include t'nrollmt·nt pat­terns and ways to improve: education through long-rangt' plan­oinK 
llickt'Y said he kds that tht' con­
krt'nce has "a uniyuc: form" because 
of its biparti~an naturt'. including 
rt·presc:ntative~ of both public and 
indepemknt learning in~tiwtions of 
Indiana. .\lost similar conkrences 
include t'ither one or the other kind 
ol in~titut1on. ht' ~aid. 
Each memhn in~titution ~t·nds its proident .md hight'st ranking ad­mini~trati\T officc:r. u'uall\' till" dean. The conference i~ funded lw a regi,tration lt'e pa1d lw each in,titu­tum 
****************
'* . ·Y..· 
; Buy : 
·X. ·X· 


: Observer i 
* * 
~-Ciassifieds~
* * 
***************~* 




Dance-a-thon 
Sponsor a dancer and you get more ! ! ! 
$2.00 

ClGCh tickClt 


free admission to thv dancv 9pm -1 am 
Chance atdoorprizvs.and 
$2 ·00 Off a dvlicious Barnaby's pizza 
aardvark 




AUDI® 
100 Center Complex, Mishawaka, ln. 46544 
phone 258·1188 
IHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIttllllllllllllllllltltlllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllll 
Anyone Interested in working at 
Sr. Marita's Primary DaySchool 
An alternative school for inner-city children who have failed in public school 

Times for work are any day. Tuesday-Friday, 1:10-3:15. 
Transportation Provided 
lllltllllllllllllllllll..llllllll......." ...................................................... 
FREE Speaker Clinic Sat. Jan. 30 
Nagatron 
Nortronics 
Oracle 
Proton 
Pyramid 
Sherwood 
Sumo 
Systemdek and more 


Like a Photograph that is out of focus, a speaker that presents a Hazy, Clouded Image will never make music 
Have YOUR SPEAKERS evaluated for performance to within t3DB of an Anechoic Chamber! Be able to ask dumb questions and have them answered by people who know what they are talking about. 
Present your Notre Dame, IUSB, Ivy Tech or other student ID card for Special Deals and Free Delivery to Campus! 
sound real.

-Largest selection of Pre-Owned Equipment in the area­
...j 
I 
' 
Acoustat Adcom Akai Apature Audiomaster Audio-Technica Bedini 
B&W 
Bose DBX DCM Discwasher Fidelity Research Grado Hitachi Keith-Monks Last Marantz Max ell Micro-Seiki Mitsubishi Mordaunt-Short Monster Cable NAD 



Thursday,January 27, 1983-page 4
The Observer 

Dr. Kathryn Mettler encourages young women to consider the medical profession as a z•iable optum during a lecture at Saint Mary•'s last night. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 

SKI 
PRIME TIME 
-UNCROWDED SLOPES -ALL LIFTS OPEN 
-NO LIFT LINES  -GROOMED SLOPES  
-SKIING PRICED RI GHT  
10am-4pm Lift-$6  10am-10pm Lift-$10  
Rental-$8  

MONDAY TH Rl J FRIDAY 1 Oam-4om 
, -..... 

TUESDAY 
RIDE THE FREE SKI BUS! 
The SWISS VALLEY Bus willstop at the NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION every TUESDAY at 9:05am. Bus arrives at Swiss Valley at 10:10am and leaves the ski area at 3pm. 
TUESDAY-A GREAT DAY TO SKI! 
.... 
'6·10PM 6-10PM

TWO FOR ONE 
EveryFRIDAYandSATURDAY night Two can ski for the Price of One! Friday Saturday 2LIFTS $10 2LIFTS $11 2 RENTALS $8 2 RENTALS $9.50 
. ~ 

, ~ SWISS VALLEY SKI AREA 
JONES, Ml 
just 40 minutes from the NOTRE DAME CAMPUS. Take Rouie 23 to M-60 East. Follow signs to area. 
GROUP RATES AVAILABLE 
616/244-8016 
Mettler Speech 




Medicine attracting more women 
ByRENEFOY 
Neu•sStajf 
'Women are making it in the medi­
cal profession. Now more than ever, 
the tleld of medicine is attracting 
women. The former hia~es against 
women doctors have faded and the 
macho ideab disappeared. 
This encouraging news was 
presented by Dr. Kathryn Mettkr at 
her lecture last night at Saint Mary's. 
Mettler spoke of the growing . number ofwomen that are accepted 
i~to medical school. She graduated 
from Saint Mary's in 196-i, when few 
women were considering a career in 
medicine. The percentage of 
women in medical schools was only 
six percent. Now ~I percent of 
medical students are women. 
There is a dellnite "movement 
toward equal representation," 
according to Mettler. As an admis­
sions hoard member the last two 
years of medical school, she wa~ 
"not allowed to question women 
med sd10ol candidates as to their 
plans for marriage and family." 
:\<1ettler said that one of the n1ajor 
reasons for the former male 
dominance of the medical profe~­
sion was the problems ti>r women 
with raisin!-: a family and pursuing 
such a demanding career. "Most 
people are raised with set ideals of 
women's and men's role~." Mertler 
said, "hut there b no reason why 
fathers couldn't share child rearing." 
Mettler mentioned several op­
tions that are now available in t ,the 
medical profession that would allow 
time ti>r a more normal family life. 
The tleld of emergency medicine is 
popular because of the less demand­
ing work load and time schedule. 
Shared residence programs allow ti>r 


·--------------------------·Men's Hair Styling at its finE~st I
1 ~ 1 ,'.~r: ' 'The Knights ofthe Castl·e' 

1
I For the total look on a styled Hair Cut: I
I Hair Cut ShampoO
I Blow Dry &Condition Hrs. Tue. wed. Sat H:30-5:}ii Reg. $15.oo
I Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30 I Closed Mon Now $8·50 with coupon 272-0312I 

Now $6

277.1s91 Hair Cu!Only ·00 with coupon I 
154533 Terrace Lane Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. I (St. Rd. 23) I &: M t., Weareonlyminutesfromcampus
lAcross ,rom ar m s 




1.-----------coUPON•----------..1 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the Terrace Lounge at the South Bend Marriott! South Bend's largest 
34 oz. tankard of beer is only 
I I $4.00 and YOU KEEP THE SOUVENIR GLASS TANKARD! Refills every weekday from 4-7 p.m. (on Thursdays until closing) are just $2.00! 
y
:J 

~ The Place to Be! 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
...........·,, 
two students to split one joh hut still fultlll the required schedule. 
One drawback mentioned by Met­tler: "If a woman chooses to rake a less intensive internship, she may tlnd herself on a slower career track." The field has always been demanding and a doctor's family has always had to cope with long separa­tions, she added. 
~ettler introduced the idea that with the addition of women to this high stress profession "the field is becoming more human because women are saying that it is possible." 
continued.from page I 
for I 0 weeks beginning next week. Rybicki notes that people who arc interested in joining the group should contact Psychological Services to get more inti>rmation about the group and to help decide if the group is right for them. The groups are entirely confidential. 
Rybicki feels that the group teaches people new ~kills to help sol\'c problems that contribute to the disorders. It also deals with issues that will allow ~tudents to determine whether they wbh to un­dertake individual therapy or to pur~ue goals on their own. 
"We have developed a format that includes eating dinner with people in the group, which is a lirtle scary for them at tlrsr, hut gives them a chance to eat a reasonably sized meal in a safe way that doesn't have to he frightening fi>r them. They also get to learn that they can socialize during a meal and enjoy a meal for the tlrst time." 
Later the group discusses varivns ~~>pies conncctt'"d '"rith f6~tt1nn th~or­

"tlu!~ , I 
'IICCIIS I 
~/.( ~ 
I 
Ofall medical students surveyed in a study, 90 percent of the male~ wanted a family while H'; percent of the females were considering a fami­ly. 
If \1ettler's life is any indication of changing trends in opportunities for women, it appears clear that women are gaining ground. It was nor until l-1 years after marriage and several children that ~ettler decided to pursue a career in the field of medidne. Mettler attrihures her success to the "love and support" of her family. 
... Eating 

ders ranging from anger to stress management to women's issues. The last part of the group is spent in group discussion and support, as well as discussing more of the psy­chological aspects of the problems. 
Rybicki noted that the success rate of the groups, which generally consist of I 0-12 members, is be­tween 60 and ~o percent. "For these disorders, that is doing very, very well," he remarked. 'These are two of the hardest disorders to treat." 
People who know possible suf­ferer~ from an eatfng disorder are encouraged to contact Psychologi­cal Sen·ices !0 learn what they can do !0 help that person deal with the problem. 
Rybicki added that the University ha~ been especially cooperative in helping the people from Psychologi­cal Services learn more about eating disorders. "This helps us set up a real top-notch program," Rybicki remarked. "We're one ofthe few col­lege centers like this that have an eating disorder program of this scope." 
._... 


Business & Technology_T_hurs_day,_Janu_ary 19-83_Pa_ge.,
2_7, 

~arketing Update 
Ford Motor Company's new product strategy will help make I'JH~ "a turning-point year" in the history of the com­pany. Ford Board Chairman Philip Caldwell said in a recent speech to the U.S. Steel Corporation's Good Fellowship Club in Pittsburgh. Mr. Caldwell called "producb that grab the imaginations ofour cus­tomers" the key to the company's recovery. When confronted with enormous revolutionary changes in the U.S. automotive industry. Caldwell said that Ford "chose to stand our ground and fight the competitive battle in our home territory" rather than "fold our tents <.nd start to move offshore to manufacture cars and trucks in low­cost countries and import them -like the Japanese. Deciding to fight the battle here at home meant investing in the long-term future of U.S. industry -even though near-term financial results would be affected." -The Obserl'er 

Wall Street Update 
The stock market turned in a mixed showing yester­day in a lbtless response to President Reagan's State of the l'nion speech. Hut some individual stocks in high-technolO!-,'Y businesses gained ground. In his message Tuesday night, Reagan spoke of high technology as "vast frontier ofopportunity." The DowJones average of ~0 industrials, after tluctuating in a narrow range all day, closed with a -1.0-1-point loss at l.O:P.99. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange slowed to a three-week low of 7 3. 72 million shares from -9.7-1 million Tuesday. Analysts said traders found no big surprises in Reagan's message Tuesday night, in which he called for a "freeze" on federal spending and standby tax increases for future years. 
Standard & poor's index of 400 industrials lost .I 7 to 1 '59.0-t, and S&P's '500-stock composite index was down .21 at l·t I. '5-t. Tht:: _ American Stock Exchange index rose 2.2--i to 3'5-t. 7 2. The NASDAQ composite over-the-counter index closed at 2-ti.-t~. up 2.2-t. -AP 

•"CCJQowettg {;ott aQQ occag[o~g" 
Come in and Browse 
327 lincolnway 232-3354 
~ ~
................................................................................................................... 

I !.\I~~~!·~~;~·~g~l£~.§.1..! 
]t1n1on panents' Weekenb PR€Sib€nt's b1nneR 
will beheld Monday, January 31 Tuesday, February 1 
7 -9 p.m. in the Nazz. 
~ NOTE: *Maximum of 61.D.'s per person 
Academic, actuarial, law 
Math major market expanding 
ByPATSAIN 
B&TReporter 

Do math majors have jobs after graduation? In theory -yes. In fact, the job market is even improving, due to the growing computer in­dustry, and the demand for training in systematic and logical thinking. 
According to Professor Warren Wong, chairman of the math depart­ment. the academic, actuarial, medi­cal and law tlelds are all looking for people with the analytical thinking abilities that mathematical training provides. 
Academic positions in math will be opening up in the future, said one Notre Dame professor, because the professors who were hired in the fifties and sixties and now have tenure. will be starting to retire. and · with three to tlve years of graduate school and six years on the faculty of a university with a Ph.D., a person will be up for tenure as the others are starting to retire. 
"Undergraduate degrees in math­emathics are also useful in applying to law school or medical school," commented Wong. "The accep­tance committees are looking for something unusual, and a math de­gree, with all the logical thinking and training that it implies, is very good to get into this kind of school. A math degree shows that a person can think analytically and logically." 
One job that is very big is tne ac­tuary field with insurance com­panies, according to John Derwent, former chairman ofthe math depart­ment. He said that the position opens the way to rapid promotion and that many people who start out working in the actuary tleld often end up very high in the management postilions. 
Wong described the job of 
the actuarian as "very responsible 
well-paid position." These people 
do not compile the tables used by 
insurance companies, but rather, 
they use them to determine rates. 

Another job tleld that is just begm­ning to boom is the computer field. The positions that are promising are not the program ming ones, but the systems lmalysist ones, according to Wong. These people hold "responsible positions" and analvze what is going on in companies, ~nd make suggestions to improve et: ficiency. 
ROTC and the armed forces also like the math majors, because of their training in math, and their clear thinking. 
The Notre Dame math program has never had huge numbers. The most, at· any one time. has been about I20 students. Presently, there are about -o students enrolled in the college. Derwent savs that he ex­
pects the enrollment to reach the 
I20 mark in a few years, however. 
The surge ofinterest is mainlv due to the rise of the computer ind~strv. In fact, the most popular major in math is with a computer option. This program has about 55·-60 students. 
"Twenty years ago," Derwent said, "eighty percent of the students who graduated went to graduate school. Now the situation has more than reversed. only five percent are going to graduate school." 
He expects the tlgure to rise. a~ the prospect of teaching at the uni· versity level becomes brighter. 

Bethlehem steel sets record quarterly loss 
PITTSBl :RGH ( AP) -Bethlehem Steel Corp. lost SI.-t-billion in 19H2 and S I. I '5 billion in the tlnal three months of the year -a record quar­terly loss by a L:.s. company. the steelmaker said yesterday. 
The quarterly detlcit announced by the nation's second-largest steel­maker. based in Bethlehem. Pa.. surpassed the previous record of s 1.0 I billion posted by Internation­al Harvester Co. in the fourth quar­ter of 19H2. 
Bethlehem's loss for the year came on sales of S'5.2 billion and compared with net income of S2I 0 million, or S-t.H~ a share, for the pre­vious year. The company earned S~ I. I million, or ~I cents a share, tor the 19H I fourth quarter. 
Sales were 57.5 billion in I9HI. including SI.6 billion for the last three months. 
Besides its fourth-quarter loss. In­ternational Harvester posted a year­ly total net loss of S1.6-1 billion. Harvester's yearly loss was topped by Chrysler Corp.·s Sl.~I billion deficit in I9HO. 
Bethlehem's annou11cement came 
a day after the industry leader. t:.s. 
Steel Corp., declared it lost 5~6~ 
million in the tlnal quarter and 
ended 19H2 with a s.~6I million 

NOTRE DAME sn:DENT L'NION 
PRESENTS 
SPRING BREAK ~~DAYTONA BEACH 
MARCH 11 -20, 1983 
Arrantrm~nll b}' ECHO TRA Jl£L, /W. 

MCI52571F SIX PER ROOM TRIP INCLUDES 
• 
R<lUfld trtp motor coach tran~por!atmn V•J modern highway !:<lacht'S w Daytona Beach. Floru.la leav1ng Fnday, March II. 

• 
Se\en ntght~ actommodatton~ at the exctung Plaza Hotel of 



$185 
();n10na Beach Located at600~orthAtlanllc Ave ,IIIli the moSt demanded hotel on the smp at that tlme. 
• A trul\ great \Chedu!c of ao:tndtte~ Lndudmg our famous pool deck partu:s and belly nap contest. 

FOl R PER ROO.l'tf • Optwnal ncursltlm d\adablc to Disne) World, Epc01. and ~e,eral Nheranracuom 
• 
'\;umerous har and rel!.taurant dL~counh. 

• 
The ~en tee~ ol fulltlmt tnnel representatiVeS



$199 
• -\lltaxe' and gralutiJes 
• (iuardnteed l..nchcnette-o' o.::eantront a~aLiablc at small addutonal .:;hargc 14 per room only~ 

A QUALITY TRIP-A LOWPRICE-A GREAT TIME 
t h~ f'IM.I Hutcl located nght 10 the mtdd\e olthc ~tnp. ts del!nuely the place to be dunng 'IHtn~ r>rcal.. •\,),. lin~ one ""ho h;~, hccn to Da~tona The hotel ha~ a pool. btg party .:!eel., re,taurant I<>Ut h~r'. ~olor I\ . atr cnndtttoncd room~ and p!c-nt\· of actt\Jttes Ptctures 1sre .J\dddhh... "h~rc '"u ''P." up Our motorcoache~ arc nothtnp. hut the htghest quaht) htghway ~·>at:hc' V. r 41\ll !l-''c ~nu mt,reextrd' ""''h JlUt tnp than dn~one else Don't blow 11 and go on ,, tn\\er 4u<~ht~ mp LAST rtAR OYER 8.0(}(JP£0Pl.E E."''IJ0)'£D THIS TRIP 
SJG:'Ii l'P :-lOW AT fHE 
TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE MON.-FRI. 10 AM-4 PM OR CALL 239·5213 
detlcit. 
Bethlehem took a pre-tax loss of 
S950 million in the tourth quarter 
and S I.0'5 billion t(>r the y~:ar from 
the restructuring and closing ofnon­
profitable operations, including 
plants in Lackawanna, !\I.Y., and Johnstown, Pa. 
"(The) 1 'JH2 loss from operations was primarily due to exceptionallv poor customer demand in every market which Bethlehem serves. Shipments declined steadily throughout 1982," Chairman Donald Trautlein said. 
Bethlehem said it operated at only 3-percent of capacity in the I 'JH2 t(>urth quarter and -1H percent of capacity tor the year. down from more than ""'0 percent in both 19H I periods. 
Trautlein said Bethlehem's operating losst::s ~hould continue through at least the tlrst halfof 19H3 even though he expecb the nation·~ economy to begin recovering this 
year. 
"Any ~ignitlcant ii?provement in the steel business is not likely to oc cur until 198-t." Trautlein said. cau­tioned that steel historicallv lag~ behind economic recovery by six ru nine months. 


NEW HOURS 
WE ARE NOW OPEN FOR LUNCH MON. THRU FRI. 
MON-THURS 11 A.M.-10 P.M. FRI11 A.M.-12 MIDNIGHT SAT 4 P.M.-12 MIDNIGHT CLOSED SUNDAY 

YALUAaU COUJIOII 
12" OFF LAI'E PIID 11" OFF SIAU 01 
IEDIIII'IID 
Of'FER NOT \IA.UO WITH ANY OTHt:.R AURhtO S SP£0AL DeSCOUNT OA COUPON VALID AT S 8 
AURlUO"S ('lN.l Y 
Coupon expires Feb. 1, 1983. 
YALUAaU COUJIOII ,,,; 
IEL.IYEIY SPECIAL 
-"'-fi(IIOJWJ'I 
IOJftll ..... 
~OOWINIMU ... OfFE.R ...c)T VAUO~TH ANY OTHER AUAHIO"S SPEO.Al O.SCOU"'T OA COUPON VALID A.T S B 
AUREUO'S ONl't 
Coupon expires Feb. 1, 1983. 
FREE SALAD WITH ANY PIZZA, PASTA OR SANDWICH LUNCHEON ORDER. (Dining room only) 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 
H«UOll 277-4950 ""'""' 
OltDI,EI'-""It 4.1111

~......................................:.:9.~.~::.~:~.~.?..~.~.?..~:.~~.?.~.:...........................~ 
----~------~ --~---­
Thursday, January 27, 1983-page 6





Editorials 
NBC stands alone in quality 
Is there a light at the end of the tunnel for NBC? The network has fallen far behind its competitors in the ratings race, and has restructured its line~up in an effort to keep from losing even more ground~ 
Skip Desjardin 
On the Media 

On Monday, january 10, NBC's ratings nationwide dropped 18 pen..ent. But, ironical­ly, that may he a sign that NBC is headed in the right direction. 
On that night 61 stations across the country were airing Mobil Oil's presentation of Dick· ens' Nicbolas Nickelb_v. Ten of those stations were NBC affiliates. Ratings dropped because NBC had to compete with the program in some markets-and couldn't even air its own shows in others. 
But the moderate success ofNickei/Jv and other independent programs such as Opera~ tion Prime Time's A Woman Called Golda bodes well for NBC. 
It is alone among the ; networks in tryinj!, to consistently offer quality, intelligent program­ming -like Nickelby -even at the expense of ratings. 
The Thursday night line-up is still the best on TV-despite the departure of Taxi. 1\BC chairman and chief executive officer Grant Tinker and entertainment president Brandon Tartikoff are committed to giving the public programming with some substance, hut they arc desperately trying to get the network into financial shape first. 
"I don't think TV has to grind away witkssly like Muzak or something," Tinker says. "But I think vou have to he healthier than we are." 

Last week RCA-NBC's parent company­announced that the network\ protlts in­crea~ed for the tlrst time in five years this season. 
And now there is some indication that the public is coming around as well. 
While the general agreement is that a 25 share of the ratings is necessary li>r programs to ~urvivc, NBC's Thursday line-up -which features the best comedy of the year. Cheers, and the best dramatic program. Hill Street Blues -drew an average share of 21 last week. 
"I'm not going to hire skywriters to go out and say we got a 2 percent ~hare Thursday," says Tartikoff. "But here and there, there are signs oflife." 
There are plans li>r some long-awaited returns at NBC next fall. Norman Lear and Earl llamner, the most successful series producers of the 19...,0's, will both bring programs to tht· network. 
Lear. the gcniu~ behind A./I in tbe Family. will produce a situation comedy about a local news show entitled, Good E1•ening, lie Lied. Hamner. whose show Tbe Waltons dominated its time slot for years. will bring to the airwaves a dramatic series about a country-Western idol. and follow his career from the 19·~0's through the present. 
Patience is the watchword at NBC 
"\X'hcn arc we going to usc this great machine to do even better things~" Tinker asks rhetorically. "My only answer is, as soon as we can 
Let's hope the money holds out, and the public com<:s to its senses. NBC is the shining light among the nation's networks. and it would be a shame if they discovered that these grand plans are just not going to work 


Contraceptives for minors: should parents know? 
Recently Secretary of Health and Human Services Richard Schweiker announced his resignation. But he is not doing so without a blaze ofcontroversy. Schweiker supports, and has begun to implement, a regulation 
Tim Neely 
My Turn 

whereby any teenager who goes to a federally­funded clinic for contraceptive devices will have her parents notified ofthe visit. 
Already this has stirred the ire of many groups nationwide. The American Civil Liberties Union has filed suit to have the law 
overturned. The state of Oregon is supplying its own funds to replace those which can no longer be used so that teens may continue receiving contraceptives without having to worry about their parents finding out. What these, and others, are saying is that such a law can have only detrimental effects, and I agree with them. 
As much as some may not like it, today we live in a more permissive society than we did 20 years ago, or even I 0 years ago. The Health and Human Services Department seems to be blaming the relatively easy and confidential availability of contraceptives to those teens who want them for this "new morality." Therefore, by letting parents in on their kids' secret, teenage sexuality will be reduced. Or so they claim. 
There is something that is not right about 

informing people of things they have no right to know about. The teen years are a difficult time for nearly all who go through it. Adoles­cents like to feel they are growing up, and they experiment with things which make them feel "grown up," whether their parents would ap­prove or not. Over the past few years, the courts have ruled that in certain cases, parents of teenagers have no right to violate the privacy oftheir children. This seems to be one 
of those cases. 
Let's face it, many teens have a hard time talking to their parents about anytbing, much less something which can be as sensitive an issue as birth control. If adolescents are going to make love, they may as well be responsible about it. What this law will do is lead to ir­responsibility. . 
If this law. by discouraging teens from obtaining contraceptives, is intended to reduce teenage sexual activity, it will fail. A recent survey indicated that only two percent of teens using birth control are likely to stop having sex because of the new ruling. What they will do. rather than risk having mom and dad find out about their activities, is stop using contraceptives. What will result when that happens? More teenage pregnancies, more abortions, more unwanted childrt:n -all of which are far greater problems than the pill, 
the IUD, and the diaphragm. 
In.the case ofcontraceptives, if a teen really feels that hn (in most cases) parents should know she is using birth control, she, and she alone, should be the one to tell them. When Schweiker's replacement is named, one of the tlrst things that should be done is to strike this rule .from the books. 
., 
P.O. Box Q
•. ' 


Vote ''for'' unilateral freeze 
DearEditor: 
The upcoming election is a chance for us to express our view, as a community, on the most fundamental moral question that we have to face: nuclear weapons. on Feb. 8, stu­dents will vote on this profound issue. Endorsing the unilaterally-initiated freeze is a way for us to take an unambiguous and un· qualified stand on this isssue. Old argu­ments, with ruots deep in the fear and insecurity of the cold war, are trotted out as supposedly persuasive, cautioning us against this endorsement, but the following cir­

.. 
cumstances can not be denied: 
.. 
I) We are responsible for what our own country does. Over its actions we have some hope ofcontrol. Thus, the freeze for us must begin at home. 
2) Bilateral conditions are easily turned into conditions preventing any freeze, by those who wish to do so. Moreover. a bilateral freeze continues to work within ob­
Editor's Note: Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number and signature of the author. Initials and pseudo­nyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, car­bon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. :\ll letters arc subject to editing. 
solete and foolhardy notions ofwar and self­interest. 
3) In the past ten years, we are the ones who have threatened to use nuclear weapons. 
4) The millions uselessly spent producing more bombs should be spent on improving the lives of the poor. The nuclear arms in: dustry may be goo·d busmcss, but our responsibility to our fellow humans demands that our nation's wealth not be 
.wasted on instruments of human annihila­tion. 
5) The arms race is presently at a state ot essential equality. Understanding this, as well as the undeniable level of mutual over­kill, even assuming the unworkable concept of deterence, more warheads are simply su­perfluous. It would be, truly and uncon­sciounably, pouring money down a missile silo. 
.. 


6) If the human community is to survive, we must begin thinking of our lives as inter­connected. We must stop operating out of an "us verses them" mentality, in which nationalism is the most important value. We must choose for the human community. Einstein said: "The unleashed power of the atom ha~ changed everything except our way of thinking. Thus we are drii••ng toward a catastrophe beyond comparison. We s~all require a substantially new manner of think­ing if we are to survive." 

l  
I.I.  
'I· I:  Box i2, Notre Dame, IN 46556 The Observer is the independent newspaper published by tbe students of the Uni­versity of Notre Da~e du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect  
the policies of the administration of eit~er institution.· The news is reported as ac­ 
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa  
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict  
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community,  
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  
(219) 239-5303  

This is what we believe. And we believe that the ND/SMC community has a respon­sibility to express itselfon this issue in a way that cannot be misunderstood. We need to say by voting for this resolution, that we care about and will stand up for the human com­munity, and that we no longer wish to be part of the possibility of its destruction. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Cbief........... ................ Michael Monk Managing Etlilor................Ryan Vcr Bcrkmoes Executil'e Neu•s Editor .............. David Dziedzic SMC Executive Editor............ Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor ···~··········~-............. Paul ,\1cGinn 
_Features Editor ..................... Joseph Musumeci Pboto Editor ......................... ......... Rachel Blount 
We hope that you will come to some or all ofthe following events: Thurs., Jan. 27: Molly Rush -member of 
the Plowshares 8 
Tues., Feb I: Film:From Hitler to tbe MX 
Thurs., Feb 3: Film: War witbout Winners 
and The Las.! Epidemic Mon., Feb 7: "Teach-in: A discussion on the nuclear freeze" 
The Two-Campus Freeze Coalition 

Department Managers 
Business Manager ........ . ....Tony Aiello Controller ............ . ..... Eric Schulz Adt•erlising Manager.................... ..Chrb Owen Production Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager.... ... Mark Miotto Systems Manager......... . ............. Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3, 1966 

------
---~------~---­
-· 

The mind of a god 
E
ditor's Note: (iod Emperor of an intricate study of the workings of Leto, through his ancestral Dune was released in the mind ofa man who has assumed memory, has actually lit•ed all of his­bardboundform in May 1981, and the powers ofa god. tory -he is a receptacle'of all the paperback t•ersion was printed Herbert again works with the human suffering. He is painfully in April 1982./n the South Bend themes ofconservation; man's place human, yet his grotesque worm area, howet•er, copies ofthe book as a part of, and yet apart from. the body makes him equally painfully in­were difficult to.find until last cosmos; and what he calls "the myth human. month. And so, Bruce Oakley of the Messiah" -themes in­
The God Emperor has accepted

ret•iews HeriJert's work toda}' as troduced in Dune, Dune !11essiab 
this burden in order to save The Observer introduces its book and Children ofDune. 
mankind, yet he is perceived by his fJaKe. Leto II, a member of the tlouse of 
subjects -even those who hc~t un­Atreides, (a powerful family tracing 
derstand him -as an evil. unfeeling
its lineage through the milcnnia 
tyrant serving only his own ego. And directly to Atreus, founder ofAt­
indeed, that part of him which is hens) is God Emperor of the planet 

Bruce 
worm is selfish. Arrakis (known as Dune). 
The fragile balance Leto manages


QQkley 
He has come to power in the 
between ancestry. future and 
course of the first three hooks of the 
metamorphosis is sensitively
;cries, as a result of the breeding 
presented by Herbert, and that alone

God Emperor ofDune, the fourth 
program of the sisters of the Bene 
makes for enjoyable, thought­

hook in Frank 1-lcrherfs popular Gesserit order, power struggles he­provoking reading.
"Dune" series, is an interestingstudy tween the great houses. and the 
of the psychological implications of But Herbert is concerned with
spice-drug dependence of the 

a kind of"just tyranny.' The work is more than one man's ordeal of iden­

navigators ofthe Spacing Guild con­

tity. A major point of the entire 2001: Odysse:J-• Tu'O, Arthur C. Clarke, Ballantine Books, New York, 1982.291 pa~es.
trolling interplanetary commerce. God Emperor ofDune. Frank Herbert, Berkley series is that history will run its
Giant sandworms on the deserts 

Book.•, New York, 1981. 358 pages. 
course despite individuals, hut not
of Dune produce a spice known as 
without them. Each individual has a
melange, which increases the 
role to play in a totality ofhuman ex­
abilities of the Guild navigators and 


New Etn's ODYSSEY
perience, and although individuals
enhances the Ben·e Gesserit capacity 
shrink into the depths of history
to see the future. Leto II, a product of 
those parts must he played to the
the sisterhood's program to breed a full. 

man with the gifts ofprescience and "open the Pod Bay door, Hal." Herbert presents an interesting
ancestral memory, sees into the ''I'm sorry, Dave, but I can't do that." future and realizes that he must study of the interdependence ofall 2001: A Space Odyssey 
forsake his humanity and become a 
things in the cosmos, and of the forces that shape humanity.

sandworm through a ~.000-year The above quote froze millions to their seats in theaters across process in order to save mankind. For fans of the action and plot in­America almost tlfteen years ago, as a very personable computer 
Herbert examines the pain of tricacies of the first three hooks, committed the ultimate mutiny against his human master. transition from fragile man to nearly GodEmperor may he a bit ofa disap­The tllm 2001 became and remains the standard tor serious invincible God-worm-man. The pointment. But the perspective from science fiction t1lms. an apex which, it appears the industry might book presents Leto's intense which God Emperor is thought­struggle to maintain his identity provoking enough to make the work 
Joe
despite the forces that are pulling more interesting than its predeces­him apart. sors. 


musumeci 
never equal. Stanley Kubrick's innovative cinematic style and the
Sparsely populated PLANET 
technical and narrative brillianct: ofArthur C. Clarke combined to create an eerie and unforgdtable vision which promised to stand alone in the minds ofa technically advancing society tor countless 
S
orry, all you English majors, hut story is a moral one; Horton does not this is portrayed subtly, without 
years, a true 20th century classic. despite the title, Shakespeare's feel right in abandoning Carnivore: didactic meditations or dramatic. 
The years aren't countless any more. Planet has little to do with the old nor does he feel able to take Car­moral decisions, hut because of As 19H2 came to a close, Ballantine Books released a classic for a hard. nivore with him. In addition, Horton Simak's rt:straint. many ideas are left new era:2010: Od}'ssey Tu•o. Clifford D. Simak, has created the must cope with the fact that with his undeveloped and may be missed by 
The original Space Odyssev (the novd and the movie) left a 
world as the central staging area ofa fellow explorers dead, and earth in the reader. 
startled audience pondering myriad questions concerning the 
seemingly a standard science fiction near0ruin, according to Elayne's 
"space child" and the obelisks Clarke so artfully scattered through­
WhileShakespeare's Planet

tale which. upon closer examina­report, his entire mission has no out our system, not to mention the possibility ofa sequel. With the
presents, with artistry, new con­

tion, presents some sensitive in­purpose -yet there is nothing to do publication of this novel, all the questions are answered -and new
cepts, the events that portray tht:se

sights concerning motives, hut continue. 
ones are posed.
ideas remain episodic, only loosely

relationships. and commitment. The characters appear primarily as: The Discol'ery is still in orbit around Jupiter, and the impetus for
connected by their occurring in the
observers, almost bystanders in the Clarke's Mriking tale is a ~alvage mission to bring it back to Earth. a

same location, to the same people.
drama that takes place on this new. 

mission which due to time requirements must he accomplshed
The book lacks an overall theme or


Beth 
world. One possible reason for this aboard a vessd of Russian allegiance. the only onc that could be

purpose to hind the events and
is that we arc given very meager in­readied in time to save tht: relic from its decaying orbit.

theories together. Greater develop­
formation concerning many of the


Deschryver 
But the essential relevance of the salvage mission is eclipsed by
ment and unification ofactions and
main characters. We learn oftht: 

the events that unfold once the shipLeonou has left home ground.
ideas could have given ' 

Ship, the partially united conscious­To go into any plot synopsis would int:vitably dampen the effect of
Shakespeare's Planet more easily

Although episodic, the main plot ness of three human brains which Clarke's imagination and tlair for precisely-timed exposition, but an
appreciated depth and have distin­

opens with earth geologist Carter control Horton's craft. We know the examination ofsome ofthe "answered questions" might tend to give
guished it from the run of mediocre

Horton's awakening after two background ofthese lives in detail as an idea of the scope of this epic. Dave Bowman, the apparent sur­
science fiction.

thousand years in suspended anima­each one reflects on his different vivor of the last hook, docs indeed return (in a sense). The purpost: 
tion. Horton sets out to explore a motives for volunteering for this behind the black obelisks which had littered the terrain and historymission.
new world for po~~ible habitation ofmankind is explained (in a sense). The namre ofthe mishap which with the aid ofa bipod robot, We also learn ofShakt:speare's cracked HAL 9000's impregnable ~anity is revealed (in a sense). And Nicodemu~. En routc. he encounters thoughb. as he lived on this world the whole thing come~ to a hcad at the end of the circle; mankind 
Carnivore. a stranded sentient who trapped with only the primitive Car­
stands by and watches Creation revisited. begs the two to repair the planet's nivore for companionship. From this Clarke has don<: much more; howe,·n, than simply extend the oh­defective star tunnel. the present journal we also learn ofCarnivore. 
viou~ story possihilitit:s presented by the original. The manner in who is acclaimed by his people as a 
culture's means of interplanetary which he accomjJlisbes this rcveab his awareness of the new age travel. As Nicodemus Jttempb this. great hero for his pur~uing and kill' 
that social and technical man has shaped for himself. Women play Horton explores the new world. in­ing the greatest champion~ of manr 
much more ct:ntral and well-developed roles than in the literary vestigating the horne of worlds to which he travels. The 
predecessor, scrving as respectt:d and competent technicians in the ~hakespearc, a human. Trapped like characterofCarter Horton i~ incnrri­actual !light ofthcLeonor•. The technical aspects ofthe tlights. dock­plete, serving to tie the other charac­
Carnivore, "ShaK _.,peare·· had ings. etc., contained in the plot are detailed much more intricatdy ters together more than as an
~crihhlcd hl!> joumal i!l the margins for a generation of readers who have grown accustomc:d to ~eeing ofTbe Compleft Work:: of individual in hb own right. 
computers in the kitchcn or den a' well as in corporate offices. Sbakespeare. Horton ..t~o encoun­Simak suppllies tht: majority ofthe All this sounds like a run-of-the-mill science fiction classic; such is ters a woman Ela~·!e, a liquid life retlective philosophizin~ in ~-mall not the cast:. Clarke has reigned supreme in his gt:nre, dispensing form, a force liclu o~ · uspended encapsul _1do~<:.,,\\ ith luk scienCl'·tech litt·raure oftht: highest calibre. t<>r more years than time. and numn.Ju' riddle~ that cul­added rununation by tht· m;:;'1 m•>st writers h:~ve bct:n working. But with this novel, his work finally m in ate in a rrnm~t rou··, b;Htk character. Simak ~ccms to hav'~ tr.mscends the genre ofwhich he has hn:omc an undisputed master. planncd long before their arrival. taken care not to O\'Crcstimatc the· The social, philosophical, and yes, even theological implications of 
The situation m.ty set•rn well worn reader's capacity for ahMractions. this work arc so intriguing as to override:: the naft of technology with use; hov. t· •·t r, th·: n...rrative ~any sensitive and perceptive ideas, upon which the epic of2001 was firmly based Th1s piece should he holds the readc.:r'~ ..nt nti.)n while however. are prest·ntcd through the a sure pick for the 1-lugo Award, hut this time the honors \Viii not ~top still moving at a relaxed pace. events of the ~tory particularly con­thcrt·. Shakespeare's Planet is :1ot a blood cepts concerning 'ieath, the bonds Oh. n·s -plans for a film han· ht:><:ll rumoured; be prepared for and gore, fa~t .!Ction "ckncc fiction of friendship and gift-giving, and the tht: ' -:Tmatic -~xperience ot ye•.1r life 
thriller. The pnm ~--•. ·unt1ict of the commitment ro dun· artd honor. All 





~j)l>~tS=jEJ===~=1=·~~~~S========~=======================T=h=ur=sd=a=y=,J=an=t=lar=y=2=~=,I=9=H=~==p=a=g==eH 
lh !be ( ihsl'rl'<'r and lhl' ..tssocitlletl1'ress 

Hiawatha Francisco. one ofthe top high school run· ning bacb in the nation, said yesterday he will play llt'X[ Season f(H' Notre Dame. Francisco. who ran tiJr 3.31 S yards on S~ -l carries in tiJur year. scored I~ touchdowns his senior year for Cincinnati Moel­ler High SchooL He was named by Parade magazine and USA Today as a high school All-American. -A.ssociatetl Press 
Notre Dame-Fordham tickets for the Feb. 10 
game at the Byrne Meadowlands Arena are available at half-price to students at the ACC ticket office. The Irish play the second game ofa doubleheader with Manhattan taking on Holy Cross in the first game. Student tickets are SS. -The Ohsen•er 
The ND-SMC women's golf team will hold 
an organizational meeting £()night at ..., in Corby Hall for all those interested in joining the squad. Please come in the main entrance. and bring your spring schedules. -The Obserl'er 
The Gymnastics Club of Notre Dame-Saint :\lary's placed second last Friday in a four-team competition. The l'niversity of \X'hitewater finbhed first. while Wheaton College was third and the Purdue University Club ended up fourth. Anne Stubbs placed tlrst on the floor and balance heam events, and took third in tlw all-around competition. Cheryl Sydon tied t(Jr first place in the vault· ing event. The club's next meet will he this Saturday at Valparaiso. ­
The Obsen,er 
Chuck Knox was named coach of the Nl'L's Seattle Seahawks yesterday just a day after resigning as coach of the Bufblo Bills. Knox, SO, would not disclose the terms of his contract nor its length. Knox's hiring as the third head coach in the seven-year his­tory of Seattle's National Football League franchise .~urprised many who expected him to return to Los Angeles to 1111 the vacant Rams joh. Knox. who has a 91-S 1-1 NFL record, refused to say why he left Buffalo with one season remaining on a six-year contract. -As­
sociated Press 
'Kooch' takes long wa~r to bowl 
PASADENA, Calif -Ill' b a vestige of things past ­
one of the last remnants ofa by-gone era. 
Boh Kucchenherg was an ofknsive lint·man tiJr thc .\1iami Dolphins the last tinll" they wcrc in the Super BowL Hc also will he starting this weckend when the Dolphins play tiJr the NFI. championship again. 
In the nine intervening ycar~. the te.Jm could ncver mangage to get it all together again. Pro tiJOtball obser­vers ht·gan to call returning to the Super Howl "a monkey on the back" ofCoach Don Shula and his team. 
"Thi~ is the ycar of thc monkcy killer," Kuechcnherg 
says now. 

Kuechcnherg, a 1969 Notrc Dame graduate, holds 
club records for starts and gamt·s played. lie will add to 
both ofthosc record~ hcre Sunday. 
(;etting hc:re was not easy, howevn. 
As a uJIIt:g<: ~ophomorc. he ~tarred at right guard, and faced off against Buhha Smith in rhc famous I0-10 tie with Michigan Statc. Thc next scason. he moved to the defensive lim·. To this day, hc insists that thc move co~t him a ~hot at bcmg a first-round draft choice. lie was. instead. dratied in the tilllrth round by thc Philadt:lphia Eagles. 
He was cut. 

The Atlanta Falcons -likc Philadelphia. a.?.-12 team the previous ~eason -picked him up. 
Hc was cut. 

The ncxt stop was the Continental l.caguc's Chicago Owls, wht-re he playt·d ninc games tiJr a total of S600. Then. hc signed a!> a frce agcnt with the Dolphins. 
"I didn't pay any attention to him in camp," Shula told Sports 11/ustmted carhcr this season. "Hc had thc stigma of bl'ing cut by two teams. I started Maxie Wil­liams at left guard, ahead of Kooch, and it was one ofthe biggest mistakes I've cvcr made. Maxie was a holdover. a holler guy, but looking back on it, he couldn't hold a candle to Kooch." 
Kuechentwrg thought the shift to defense at Notre Dame had been a disaster, hut Shula says it was his 

Skip Desjardin 
Sports Editor Emeritus 
saving grac<:. 

"Bob took over when Maxie got hurt in the ninth 
game in 19'0, and just aoout that time our offensivt· line 
took on a ncw dimension of toughncss," Shula savs. 
"Kooch had bcen a defensive lineman at Notre Dan;e, 
and you could sce it in hb temp,erament. A street 
tighter, a clawt"r and a scratcher... 
It took Shuta a while to appreciate Kuechenbt"rg's 
talcnts, and it took Kucchenbcrg some timc to figure hb 
new coach out as wdl. 
"As a young playt"r recentlv from :-.lotre Dame undcr 
Ara Parseghian, l was uscd to the rah-rah approach," he 
says. "Tremendous excitement. So when Slutla simplv 
talkt:d about execution, ahout mental toughness, ahout 
doing your job, I thought: 'WlH:rt"'s the punch linei 
Where's Rockne! Whert"'s the t~ipper( 
"Then I realizcd that you can't win one for the (;ipper 
l·l year~ in a row. But he (Shula) is so consisten!. Wcck 
aftt·r month after vear, he works." 
Work has been the hallmark ofKuechenbcrg's career. 
Work and guts. 
In 19-:'2, Hall-ot~Famer Bob l{llv embarrassed him in 
the Super Bowl. as the Dallas Co~·hoys rolled to a 2+5 
victory. But hc worked. 
By the 197-t Super Bowl. the 6-2, 22S-pound Kuec­henberg had worked hard enough to stop future Hall-of­Farner (and former teammate) Alan Page cold. And he .did it despite the fact that, just five weeks before, doc­tors had placed a pin in his left forearm to hold it togeth­
see SKIP, page 1 0 

The Observer wtll accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 am to 4.30 p m However. classtfteds to appear tn the next tssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to tnsertton All classtfteds must be prepatd 
either tn person or through the mat I 






Classifieds 
Student housrng · 6-bdrm house. fully FOR SALE FRIGtuAIRE COMPACT REDSKINS' REDSKINSI REOSKINS! JOB BANK 
SHEILA and EMILy· 1S Farley full of glfiS carpeted. 2 baths. 2 kitchens wllort 232· REFRIGERATOR 4 3 cubtc It call x1535 REDSKINSI See the Rodney Danger· Carnage House. 31 N . Parl·l1me. 
who look as good as you do? If tl tS were
NOTICES 405 7 or 272-7767 $80 00 l1elds of the NFL finally gel lhe respect rnventory-stock room For rnlo, call Dave mov1ng to Zahm See ya thursday? they deserve as they demolrsh the Dol· Garhn. 272·2526 Mrlady Shop. Unrver­NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT Trckets for ND basketball game agarnsl phrns on Super Sunday!' Go Skmsr Stty Park Mall. Part-trme sales. ladtes 
APPLICATIONS FOR THE SOCIAL SCOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO GOOD DePaul at the Rosemont Horrzon on Feb REOSKINS' REDSKINSI REOSKINSI sportswear For mfo. call Mrs Pat Tor"ley. 
CONCERNS SEMINAR OVER SPRING NEED A HAIRCUT AND DON T WANT BREAK IN WASHINGTON, D.C.. ARE 0 K NO MORE CUTE STUFF If' YOU 
AREAS 2773604 26 Call Jam1e 284-5490 REOSKINS' GO SKINS! II 277·3200 
AVAILABLE FROM THE CENTER FOR MALE ROOMMATE WANTED to share 2 AlthOugh I was molested Anne 
TO PAY MORE THAN $4(GUYS) OR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS. APPLICATIONS bedroom apt. 2nd floor of duplex 2 m1les As I stood !here by the sea. You·ll be payrng a h1gh lee
$6iGIRLS) THEN CALL TODAY FOR 
ARE DUE FRIDAY, JAN. 28. from campus $67 50 /month plus I gave pleasure to the trrgrd It rn blessed mamage you fOrn. 
YOUR VERY OWN APPOINTMENT 
MICHOLE 233·8456 
Utilities Grad preferred 289·8118 but E!SpecraUy to me For you w1ll never see 
I need a rrde to C111cago. Fn 1·28 M1ke at
TICKETS 

Carbary. Chapsk1 Nottolrn1, and 
6336 ONE SPACE AVAILABLE FOR WOMAN Snowwench Doyen 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR Fnday 
Noon T11 Monday Noon $29 95 1ncludes IN N 0 APTS $80 per month CALL 
THEO MAJORS: Today, come to a Carolrne 6240 Love. 
150 Free Mtles Sales Tax and Insurance 
Extra Phone Rob for Reservattons 259· meeting with N.D.'s job-placement 8459 NEED 2 Keenan Rev1ew ilckets Wtll pay HAPPY BIRTHDAY BEN SUPLICK" T Dad specralist. Mr. Paul Reynotds---5 2 bdrm-plus. furmshed apt . close to NO. $1 0. Call3042 or 3044 Congratulatrons-you made tt through the PM.33t O'Shaughnessy. clean & safe Cal1233-7631 cavtty-prone years
Home typmg servtce rn Mtshawaka 
CHEAP SEX and ilckets wanted I need Cant make 11 to Ch1cago tonrgnt tor tne
please call 259-2334 Furn 2 Bdr apt Clean & close to NO or several G.A s lor ll1e Feb 5 So Carolina SENIORS concert? J01n WSNO FM 88 9 for tomghl s I USB Ava1lable 1mmed Call233-7631 B-ball game Call Mark at x1201 FOR 1983-84 VOLUNTEER WORK full length concert by the CHICAGO SYM· Wt/1 trade 2 Saturday KeenaA Revue to' 
WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES IN PHONY Kurt Masur drrects prantst for 2 Frtday t1x Cmdy 2948 Help' I need 3 GAs for the Feb 5 So SEVERAL US CITIES, APPLICATIONS Andre-Michel 1n Beethoven s Emperor Carolrna B-Ball game IT om 288·8004 DUE FEBRUARY 8TH. CALL MARY Concerto plus Brahms Sympnony ~o 1 Lom at SMC You frnally made 1t1Happy 
ANN ROEMER, 7949. Curta1n t1me IS 8 PM on 88 9 FM 18 Mom and Dad 
LOST/FOUND \ .__I_w_A_N_TE_o_____JI. 
A YEAR OF SERVICE Job Bank H1 Cathertnett~ Love. Pat 
FOUND--Pall of mens gloves m a class-HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES ONE Job opentng at DISCOunt lrquors rn S.outh room on thrrd floor of the Engmeerrng YEAR POSTGRAD WORK. MANY Bend Part-lrme Clerk needed. lor rnfo call Dan Keusal and Frtends at the Nazz
PERSONALS
Need a rtde to St Louts on Fnday. Jan

Bu1idtng They look pretty expensrve Call REWARDS HELPING THOSE WHO J1m Den ling at 287· 5211. Fnday Jan 27 Be there" 
28 Call Pat al x3508

365611 they are yours NEED YOU. DEADLINE FEBRUARY 8. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER, CENTER rnard1 gras IS corntng!! mard1 gras ts com­Est -ce qe le pettt Chten qr est nomme
I NEED RIDE TO DETROIT THIS

FOUND One mans leath9r. maroon sk1 FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, 7949. rng!! Monster Keeper Dog un bon petri
WEEKEND I JOE 1154

glove (new). 1n front of Kmght's of chr!.m?
Fttness Fa1r Columbus Hall Cla1m at Lost & Found 1n Sunday. Jan 30.1983 TO THE GOD QUAD AND THE GANG. MARDI GRAS IS COMING Ill S1gn up now 
Need Rrde to Chrcago Fnday Jan 28 Call 

Adm Bu1id 1 00-4 t5p.m BEST OF LUCK IN THE REVUE GUYS' rn both d1n1ng halls CONGRATULATIONS ANNE AND
Bob8998 Angela Alhletrc Fac1hly 

LOVE. LOU MIKE!!! FOUND One ESPN s1gn. The Ayatollah Sarnt Mary's College MARDI GRAS DANCE-A-THON Satur· 
Need rrde to Cleveland area Feb 4-6 W1ll

knows all! WHAT'S THE BUZZ? day. february 5. I 983---srgn up lo dance To the arky on the fourth floor Zahm. Hap· 
SPECIAL GUEST SPEAKER 
share usual Call John 277· 1836 WrllyeWh1te 

NOW rn both drnrng halls py brrthday flam d leltow Jerseyrte LOST The w1ts of Rm. 328 over the" m1s· Bob Becht, BreeS
MOTIVATION EVERYDAY LIFE INFOI need 3 S Carolina G.A s (possibly to­

s1ng ESPN s1gn They d best follow the BUY MARDI GRAS TICKETS--WIN A P S What s lhrs stuH about you hkrng I hat 
CENTERS. PRESENTATIONS. YOGA. You m•sgutded martyr!
gether)for Feb 5 game Money no obrecl

Ayatollah's advrce! Hat Hat Wtll they ever AEROBICS. WEIGHT TRAINING, ETC You rnnocent puppet' TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS!" w1mp group REO? 
Call1360 and ask lor Frank

get 11 back? Only the Ayatollah knows · P Prlate 
P S See you Fn Nrte DANCE·A·THON for MARDI GRAS GRANDPA AND GRANDMA. Have aGIRL SCOUT COOKIE SALE NORTHNeed R1de to Prltsburg area the weekend
LOST Blue-and·whrte Senror Class Key Saturday February S--s1gn up NOW good tnp to FLonda! Don t forget my
DINING HALL DINNER JANUARY 24·of February 4.5 Call Eldrne at 7835 W1ll

C! -ISS of 82. mttlals TSM on back Sen­27 PIEROGIES postcarrl. Grandpa Love. Karen 
share usual 

<~m•'ntal value only Call Tom x1396 PIEROGIES BOP TILL YOU DROP"' MARDI GRAS SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 
PIEROGIES DANCE ·A· THON FEBRUARY 5 Wench 
PURDUE PURDUE We need rrders'

1'0UNO At the GODDESS QUAOOESS Information and applications may be BP PARTY ROOM Thdnks for the Talk. the laugns. ar'ld thE· 
Leavrng Fnday, lhe 28th. at 3 p m . back 

nappy hour (the soc1al event at the obtained by contacting Andrea Shap­FRI JAN 28 MARDI GRAS DANCE-A-THON SATUR· btJt:erv eggs Ought to be done aqatn
by Sunday afternoon Call284·4295

season!) on Foday. January 21. one blue DAY, FEBRUARY 5 FEATURING dtmens•onlec;~tv. fo:der. and one blue note-book--wrth no 239-5293. Application d~edline: ALL ARE WELCOME' CHARIOT You. me. God e! al 
pell at the Center for Social Concerns, '0·2 
Neer:l rtders to U of I (Champargn) Fn Jan 

n..tmes tn thern! The fotder ts from an January 31.
28·30 Call Pat M x3498

Arnencar"J Govern-ment course. and the Wnat IS short ana round and •s rol!rng tnto MARDI GHAS TALENT SI10W ri?'J notebook from a Fmtle matnemattcs South !:lend Fnday n1ght? FEBRUARY 4 IN CHATAUOUA'" Ur.tldi.er~l Nut:ll=)ar ;.:reeze?
Need nde to Creve!and area Feb 4-6 Wrll 

;o•Jrse 1f they re voun,, come by room COME TO PANDORA'S AND SAVE. Pudgel lJSi-1 USSR
share usual Call John 211· 1636

403/404 l.ew1s hall to cla1m thern, or call MANY NEW AND USED BOOKS TO STAINED GLASS ARTIST ACCEPrtNG v u:-,,t>,~,TED ''753. "' <8983 Than•>' CHOOSE FROM. WE NOW CARRY Wnat 's snort. alwavs complarns and WORK ORDERS CALL 2871631 P:.;~h 'rr 81i::t'eir'.l ~greements 
ART PRINTS. STOP IN TODAY. 937 carr ttts a btg ~ttck' Vot•• NO on Feb d LOST -A gold cham bracelet wrh sanj SOUTH BEND AVE.. OR CALL 233-Dirt! rrn the only sane·one up here r:t01tar ch:1rm Last Thursday Please call [ FOR SALE 2342. Jtm. C~ns anC' -.tmo -from Stantord 
284·5198 --------------~ Have you f1ugyerl d SMC Sor,r:·J, ·-'•-9 
Of'\ to 'JA> tn Elkhart now that wtnter s 1ubtna "'' .:i grqdfl Thanto..s d 101 ·.~.-1 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MEU"'DA TrlANKS v'E'f? You better ~turrv before :t •c. ' u J :"lerr~ '1a\·~;: 'C."<et~: tor 'he 1\eendn F4t:"~·ue . LOST NO rt_ASS RING WED JAN 12 USEJ. OUT-OF PRINT BOOKS FOH BEIN..:O A GRE:.AT StSTEFl o.OVE Be A Sophomore Weelot" !S L~ver" Tnev rt-frpe •' vo•J pay tor the muv:~ HAYES HEALY MENS ROOM BOUGHT. S0LD. SEARCHED MO Writers Needed: ToMich Tech. Fob. 3-l=ron1 Lo'i SECOND FLOOR YqLOW" GOLD !:;RASMUS BOOKS 1027 E WAYNE De•rest Molly 6. Call ex. ~4HO. bLUE STONE PLEASE CALL BRIAN AT ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY·· Do you remember that lib••'; ctate you Ht}' : '·'<;i' 277-479G JEFFERSON INTERSECTION HISTORY IN THE MAKINGI B•l(ten.ar promrsed •ne? Ill prck you up aruund 7 00 Mo!t1er Goose J--''CJ lo~tiW vour '"'none ratI£ Keer .1. Velasquez. prestd~?r,t of t'l£ ,-: Jrm ; abo~ ::-.~~ .wenmg 11 tnat s alright It not. a lrtue 1-ir:tppy Brfthdi:l vr We salute you on thrs 1nq q.Mntl'mtl€· ~·h Nann Mc.;Canaless 1978 GRAND LEMANS GOOD CONDI­Orgt=tntzmg ComrTMiee !FLOC.• dtll1 a rr>p­1?1 e1-r:t1on never hurt anyone anywdV Lett ­
-nomentus day Rtght. anf1 Flvt •)J,·Pf~-the t•.ofl .J~.:·opte h\'e 
TION $3000 or • <t$t offer Call Bob 8998 rese~•tatrve lrorn C<:tmpbP:I Soup "'\Jtn­HWhiSHHt pany wr!l face off rna debdtt:J or· Monday, Mr Buffalt. I FOR SALE PIONEER MANUAL Janudry 31 ar 6 15 rn !he Mernonar I had d w•ld-n-crazy t1me the other TURNTABLE PL512, PERFECT COND Lrbrary AlHirtonum The subject of the n1ght Hope you had as much Tun Allen E BLirrlS. beauty sucn as vour s HAFPY BIRl HO.~ Y JOANN IE "
IL:~,~..,~:~IJ 
CARTRIDGF NOT INCLUDED rnust be a srn 11 s so good tu look at If you
deoate rs tho upcom10g <::ampbelrs A Fellow New Yorker campus. cOmfortable house tor group of 5 ORIG'NAL PACt<ING INLCUO::-'i CALL ljoycott Referendum P S Yc1ur rtatr needs comb1ng. ·Jon t tdk.e go out aya1n Thurs. n1te. Ill huy vou a M1 S&norrta 1Fe:,z Cumpteancsl Mu01o or6for 1983-84 Phone288·3942 arter6 Jll\f 1602 ll•e hat oft dnnk arru)j S\ .:.lat;O 

--------------· --. 

The Observer Thursday,january 27, 1983 page9 

'Lunch pail worker' 
Higgins steers icers in rough tide 
By STEVE LABATE 
.\ports Writer 
"Any team thrives on X number of lunchpail workers," ~aid Notre Dame hockey coach Charles "Lefty" Smith when asked to describe one of his senior co-captain~. "john Higgins is that kind of kid. He'~ not in­terested in glamour. He's hard nosed, a great competitor. for four years he has given I I 0 percent_·· 
john Higgins is quite simply a coach's player, or perhaps a better description would he a player's player. "When the kids picked him as captain, it indicated to us that they felt the same way about John as we did," remarked Smith. 
After a somewhat slow start, Hig­gins has picked up the slack of­fensively in the team's last eight games. Over that span of time the Toronto native has collected 1.1 
The Top 20 
Men's 
The Top Twenty mens college basketball teams m The Assoc1ated Press poll. w1th ftrst·place votes m parentheses. tnts season s records and total pomts Po~nts based on 20-19-18-17 etc Notre Dame op~ 
ponents are ttaiiCJZed  
t  UCLA (28)  13-1  1,146  
2  Indiana (25)  14·1  1,135  
3  North Carolina (5)  15-3  1.024  
4  Nevada-Las Vegas (1)  16-0  974  
5  MemphiS State 1 1 1  14-1  906  
6  Vtrgtma  t5-2  898  
7  St Johns  17-1  859  
8  lOUISVIlle  15-2  809  
9  Houston  15-2  679  
10  Kentucky  13-3  627  
t1  Villanova  12-3  580  
12  Arkansas  15-1  551  
13.  Mtssoun  14-3  389  
14  Iowa  12-3  379  
15  Georgetown  13-4  331  
16  Mtnnesota  12-3  233  
17  tthnoJs State  14-1  213  
18  Syracuse  13-3  200  
19  Wake Forest  13-2  114  
20  Oklahoma State  13-2  83  

ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
EVERY DAY 2 for 1 Drinks 4-7 
with Homemade Food & Snacks 
Margarita Carafes $1.50 every Thurs. 
IIIIIIIIIIHtH..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllle4 
You Are Invited to Have "The Time of Your Life" at the Student Union Roller 
Skating Party 
at Rainbow Roller Rink Friday, Jan. 28 7pm-11pm 
ONLY $1 PER PERSON 
Bus wrllleave Main Circle (N D) at 7pm and will return at 11 pm 
Sign up with Margaret· SU Office Second Floor LaFortune 
~................................................"''"............................................ 
State. Currently John is averaging a point per game. He currently has I 2 goals and I I assists making him third on the team in scoring. 
Hut so linI..-nf what lnhn lliP.gins supplies the team can be measured by his goal production. Said his Coach, "john Higgins would be the guy you want in the fox hole or who is with vou back to back in a durk alley tight. When there are tough times that's when the cream rises to the top." The times haven't been any tougher than thev are right now. 
But an inspection of the statistics would indicate that Higgin~ himself is part of the reason for the team's improvement. Playing right wing alongside center Kirt Hjork and left winger Brent Chapman, Higgins has played his best hockey ofthe season. 
"It's a blend of all three people," said Smith. "hut John has had a great influence." 
Women's 
The Top Twenty women s College basketball teams 1n The Assoctated Press poll. w1th f1rst-place · votes 1n parentheses. th1s season s records and total pomts Po1nts based on 20-19-18-17 etc Notre Dame opponents are italicized 
1 Lows1ana Tech (37) 16-1 1.005 2 USC(11) 13-1 978 3 Maryland (31 15-0 922 4 Texas t3-2 862 5 Cheyney State 13-1 794 6 Old Dommton 12·3 764 7 Kentucky 14-1 731 8 Tennessee 13-4 636 9 Georg1a 14-2 614 10 Kansas State 13-3 533 11. MtSSISStppl 15-t 504 12 Long Beach State t2-4 461 13. Mtssoun 14·2 417 
14 Arizona State 15-4 329 15 UCLA 11-4 272 16 Rutgers 11-4 236 17 Auburn 13-3 194 18 Penn State 14-4 126 19 Oregon State 14-3 113 20 North Carol1na State 11-4 48 

Cold Beer& Liquor Carry Out Till3 am 
It is hard to disassociate Notre Dame hockey from its 2 million dol­lar budget deficit these davs, but Higgins sees the February I crucial decision as a way of providing extra inspiration to himself and his teammates. -"Becau:.e of the situation, people are more motivated," remarked the soft-spoken senior. ":o.iore or less, the players are playing as if they were all seniors." 
In a few short weeks, John will 
culminate his career in organized 
hockey when he plays his last game 
for Notre Dame, but he'll always 
have the admiration and respect of 
his players and coaches. No one has 
more to say aboutJohn Higgins than 
his Coach Lefty Smith: 
"John's got a great personality and a fantastic sense ofhumor. He's a plugger and a worker whethe in the classroom or on the ice rink. And I think over the course of a four year period, Notre Dame has not only had a very big impact on John Higgins, but John Higgins has had a very big impact on Notre Dame." 
The 

Alternative 
Spring Break 
Vacation! 
From ONLY






$369 
J 

1. 
Must be eJTolled in e11 approved BSH JIOgTCill. 

2. 
Must meet all other conwnissioning criteria. 


3. 
Automatic 30 days vacation with pay each yea-. 

4. 
Match steady adve11cement with competitive saary. 

5. 
Attend a oorse internship in a modem. wei-equipped Air Force heatth 

cc.e facility. 


6. 
Abenefits package second to none. 


1 
For rti(Je infonnatioo contact 
.----------------------___________________________.A.llll>J~, 

SSgt. Gary M. Absher 
1 
•

219-289-6019 collect 
Irish co-captain john Higgins has been a big reason that the team has hung tough in the face of uncertainty. Stet'e Labate features the senior on this page. (Photo brEd Carroll) 
8Roundtrip Airfare on Boeing 707 Charter to Freeport or Nassau. 
87 nights Deluxe Hotel Accommodations. 8Roundtrip Transfers from 
Airport to Hotel. 8Baggage Handling. 8Taxes & Gratuities. 
SUNDAY CHICAGO 

DEPARTURES~EKLY 
GO FREEl Organize a group of25. or 15 for 1/2 FREE TRIP! CALL NOW for Resetvations! Space is definitely UMITED! 1st come, 1st Served! 
Reservations after Feb. 1 on a Space Available Basis Only. 
CONTACT: Sun & Ski Adventures 2256 North Clark Street Chicago. IL 60614 
312-871-1070 

*'• 


f 
~ 
• 
The Observer Thursday,January 27, 1983 -page 10 
-~~~-lll!ll'-~~-·j-I.(JIJ!'!..Ii'~~ 
~ Weekend Activities at ~ 
...Skip


~:~ THE NAZZ I 
continuedfrom page 8 

Hv tht: I<)~-1 Supn Bowl, tht: 6-2,
IThursday, Jan. 27: Open Stage I 
22';:pound Kuechenh~:rg had worked hard enough to stop futurt:
I 9pm-? I 
llall-of-famer (and former ~ ~ teammatt:) Alan Pagt: cold. And hl· 
did it de~pitt: tht: fact that. ju~t f"ivt: weeks hd(Jrt·, doctors had plact:d a Dan Keusal & Friends 9:30-11 ~~; pin in hb left f(Jrt:arm to hold it to­gt:ther. 

1 Friday, Jan. 28: ~ 
Saturday, Jan. 29: i 
But there would ht: an nTn gr~:at~:r di~play of gub.
"The Return of Boorne" 9-10:30 I~;:; 
In I <)T', Kut:cht:nhng hrokt: two vntehrat: in his hack. But ht:
.-. with little sister & Mr. James 
I 

workt:d, and returnnl, and b playing ·· Steve Wimmer 10:30-? S. as well as ~:ver. In fact, last sunmll:.­:..,:>.-.x::::~»::;c.:::·{~~;~~::O:!ItK'>X{XCK·>.3E~C"".:.C!t;~~::J%,C~i>..:c±!i in training camp ht: ran the fastest 
';0-yard dash of his career. 


No~. at :'!';, he's back whne ht:'s always wanted to he. 
"This is like deja l'U," he says of sunday's game with the Redskins. "The first tim~: we won the ~uper Bowl was here in Los Angeles against Washington. I fed like the whole thing is pre-determined. 
"I said in the prt:-st:ason we'd be hack. I knew it when .Jimmy Connors won at Wimbledon. The: last time we were in it was tht: year Connors won there. 
"Than!,. you. .Jimmy Connors." 

There has heen a l!rt·:H ckal of!:Ilk 
that the same thing docs not happen again by playing tough tlefenst:. h~ making the hig pass or steal. or hy doingwhatt:\Tr it takt:s to win. 
In other words. In· doing tht: I itt le things right -con~istt:ntl\'. 

r.2B!¥.!!r,~~~~L ...ASU 
$1ECHUAII -CANTONESE-AMERICAN 
CHUCK WHITE 
* *
At The Piano Bar 
See Churk her) l"ues. thru Sat. 1!:011 p.m.-1 :00 a.m ..... Enjo) Life! 
•Dancing•Drinks•Dinoer 
•lfm.pitalij)•Reasonal»e Price' 
Lunch Special $1.99 to $4.25 
Dinner Specials: Feef Liver $2.95 Pork Fried Noodles $3.00 Pork Egg Foo-yung $3.25 
"The Best Chinese Food You've Ever Had" 
HOURS: 
Mon.-Thur 11:30 a.m -10:00p.m cri.&Sat.11:30a.m.-11:00p.m. 
Sun. & Holidays 4 p.m.-9:00p.m. 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
130 DIXIE HWY. SOUTH SOUTH BEND(Roseland) 
LIQUOR KING WILLIAM 
750 ML 599
86° SCOTCH CLAN MACGREGOR 499 
_ 7_10 Ml __ __ _ _
SCOTCH 
599 
710Ml __ ..
FINLAND lA IMPORTED VODkA 
WHILE QUANTITIES LAST-NO RAINCHECKS 
MAKER'S MARK -------'~ 0_._,_----S" 
JACK DANIELS ________,:o_•_,_____ 7" CANADIAN CLUB ______ -'~0-".'-____ 6" WINDSOR CANADIAN __ ':': ~~:E~ __ 10" JAMESON IRISH WHISKEY ____ '_'~_•-'_ __ __ 7" 
GLENFIDOICH SCOTCH _•7:0_"_' _ _ _ 15" SEVEN CROWN _____ .':': ~~:E~ ___ 10" J&B SCOTCH ________ --'~0-".'--___ 8" SMIRNOFF VODKA ____ _':o_•:_____ 4" CALVERT GIN _______ 1:7: ~~~E~ _____ 8" BOODLES GIN ___ ______,:o_._,_____ 7" 
CASTILLO RUM ------'-'= ~I:E~-----9" 
KINGS CELLAR VALLf 
VOI)KA OR GIN 
YOUR CHOICE
499 
750 ML 1.0 LITER 1.75 LITER 


... Ruth 
continuedji·om page 12 
what we're doing hack here." Kaiser. The Ast· game is the: s~:cond 
"I appreciate the scheduling," sht: "homecoming" perl(mnance t(lr says. "It's a chance liJr tilt: pt:oplc Kaist:r. Last year, the lrjsh women who saw me in high school to Sl'e traveled ro Champaign to play 11­
hard (to hecome one of the: top linois in a game witnessed h\' more 
teams)." · than I00 of her friends and acquain-
Arizona State, the nation's 12th-tanccs from Chatsworth, Ill., tht: rated team. will he another stepping town in which she was horn and stone for tht: still-growing Irish raisnluntil age I';. women's program. It is a big game as Illinois ht:at Notre Dame. H:'l-'i5. such, hut the homecoming makt:s it in that homecommg. Today. in a bigger-than-life experience f(Jr Tempe. Kaiser will try to make sure about Super Bowl VII here this w~:ek. and the undefeated season. But Kuechenberg shed~ some: nt:w light on that tc:am. 
"I think our hest team was in 19~ 3,'' he says. "It was better than our undefeated team. The: WFL broke up the Dolphins-something nohodv else could have: don~:. It took a~·ay Larry Csonka. Jim Kiick and Paul Wartkld. Where: would the Steekrs have ht:en if they'd lost guys like Franco Harris. Rock\' Bider and 
Lynn Swann~ "We would ha\"e kt:pt on hdng a great team if that hadn't happc:ned." 
But it did. And Boh Kuecht:nberg -the nan Shula counts among the greatest offcnsivt: linc:mc:n t:\·cr ­simply went hack to work, )Tar after year. l'ntil ht: brought his team hack ht:rt:. 
"If wt: play like we've ht:en playing, wt:'ll win it all thi~ year." he says contldently. 
Tht" ye;~r of tht: monkt:v killer. 

IheO~rver======~================~~============== 

~~4()l~~===========================T=h=u=rs=d=a=y=,J=an=u=a=ry==2=7=,1=9=8=3===p=a=g=e==ll 
Bloom County 


Fate 
Wf\Af Dl [) t fEU. YO\A 7 All 



NON-VIOLfN(t ANO 
IT TAI\ES IS ONE I'10VIt 

NULLfAR. DETERR.~Nl(
CONlfRN([), THAI 

Mour THtr1AN AND £VfRt-
I'HtLOioPHV t~ llAN(R.UPfl

ONE Tiit'nt 
I 

ACROSS 27 Wayward 1 Word with tuft of


The Daily Crossword 
duck or hair brain 31 Edifice 5 Dido columns 10 Thin nail 34 Aged 

Berke Breathed 


52 Tocsins 24 Friend 54 Peak 26 Invalidates 56 Greek 27 Isle of-
letter 28 Leek kin 59 -Strip 29 Yellow 60 Ball park flowering 

Campus · 
•4 
p.m. -Rad. Lab. Seminar, "Competitive Energy Dynamics in TEA-C02 Laser Induced Mul­tiphoton Chemistry of Some Fluorinated Molecules," Dr. Jai P. Mittal, Rad. Lab. Conference Theatre 

•4:.30 
p.m. -Mathematical Seminar, "A Brief Survey of the Research on Ordinary Differential Equations in China," Prof Qichang Huang, 226 CCMB 

•6:.30 
p.m. -Meeting, "SMC Semester Around the World," Dr. Cyriac Pullapilly, Carroll Hall 


•: p.m. -WOW Lecture, "Working Women," Niki Scott, Carroll Hall 
•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Personal Directions," Ruben Nunez, Moreau Gallery 

•7 
and 9:.30 p.m.-Social Concerns Film, "One Flew Over the Cookoo's Nest," Engineering Auditorium, Free 

•"":30 
p.m. -Lecture, "A Christian Perspective on the Nuclear Freeze," Molly Rush, Catholic Peace Activist, and Member of"The Plowshare~ 8'\ Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by The Two Campus Freeze Coalition 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Tradition: Conservatively Radical, Radically Conservative," Prof Martin E. Marty, Library Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Keenan Hall Review, O'Laughlin Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -NAZZ Open Stage 




T.V. Tonight 
7:50p.m.  1(>  All in the family  
22  family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
8p.m.  16  Fame  
22  Magnum PI  
28  Greatest American Hero  
34  All Creatures Great and Small  
9p.m.  16  Gimme a Break  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  Too Close for Comlort  
34  Mystery  
9:30p.m.  16  Cheers  
28  It Takes Two  
lOp.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Sneak Previews  

The Far Side 

--1-----1~-1-~ 14 Greek coin 15 Beast of burden 16 Tops --1-----1~-1-~ 17 Accounts recorder 19 Mystery 20 Not at home 21 Prod 1-:-=--1--t---1 22 Made a living f----1--t---1 24 Blackbird 25 Massaged ~-+--4-+---i  35 Not nice 37 Wager 38 Compassion 39 Before 40 Light beige 41 Legendary bird 42 Onset 44 -couteur 45 Respired 47 Abbreviate 49 William Randolph­51 Avail  figure 63 Dill 64 Diorama 65 Field 66 Breathing sound 67 Spent 68 Abate DOWN 1 Timber wolf 2-Ben Adhem 3 Debatable 4 Wapiti 5 Church member 6 Shake­(hurry) 7 Document 8 Scottish uncle 9 Cheese dish  shrub 30 Works with dough 32 French income 33 Dutch painter 36 Timetable abbr. 40 Expose 42 Hit hard 43 Most succinct 44 Biblical prophet 46 Effervesce 48 Buued 50 Spud 52 Culture medium 53 Turner or Cantrell 55 Movie  
10 Cask 11 Circuitous 12 -of Cleves  56 Type of type 57 -of  
66  13 Act 18 Isle of  plenty 58 Arrow  
© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved  1/27/83  Pines 23 In a pro· ticient manner  poison 61 -·fi 62 Playing marble  




&nior Bar Warm yourself up at 
Boys Concert 
GJ Senior Bar with our Thursday 

Lottery!! 


(~~_§cQnapp·s ~tdal
'~,, llfeppttmint, ~turmint •<!Linnllll1lln 
Live Music with Mike Thorton 
--~----------~­
Thursday, January 27, 1983 -page 12



Snorts 
l 
Women at Arizona State 
1: 
ND in desert to run down Devils 
r 
I 
I 
By MIKE RICCARDI No. 1-t Arizona State llniversity, and "Wt·'re strong instde with 
.\jJOrts Writer tipoff in Tempt' will bt:' 7 p.m. EST ( ') Hampton and Jones," confirm~ 
p.m. in Arizona). Arizona State coach Juliennt· I Notre Dame women's basketball Tonight's game will lead otf Notre Simpson. "And Cassandra Lander is coach Mary DiStanislao has been Dame's two-game Wt:'Stt:'rn road trip, excdlent at getting the ball in running her team through an tht:' tlrst of its kind for the Irish thtre.'' interesting drill at the end of women. The swing ends with Sun­Lander, at 'i-6 a natural point practices recently. day's rematch with No. I') liCLA. guard, runs the ASl. attack. and tlmls Dividing tht· team into "blue" and "I think the voters art' waiting for time to rack up nearly 15 points a "white" squads, she would have As­Notre Dame to win a big game," says game herself. Simpson will utilize sistant Coach Mary Ellen Murphy set women's basketball expert Mel Lander's offensive talent to a greater the ACC clock at less than 50 (;rt:'enbng, who compiles the Top degree by using her as the off guard seconds, and give the "biue team" a 20. "A good effort against a team "Cassandra is quick. and she's not four-or th'e-point detkit to with a reputation (of ASl' or t.:CLA) afraid to drive herself." says overcome. is all they need. Tht:'y have a pretty Simp~on. "~he'll set it up, drive. The idea, of course, is to get the good shot this weekend." shoot, even get some boards." team acclimated to late-game Arizona State, I 'i--t, had been "That 'i-6 leaper oftheirs can hurt pressure situations before they hap­rated as high as ninth bd(>re losing you on the otknsive boards," says pen. Sometimes it works. However, in three of their last four outings. A NI> coach DiStanislao. "She's quite there is no substitute for real ex­two-point loss to then-No. 1 USC in an offensive threeat.'' perience in big games going down to Los Angeles was followt:'d by a 2-f­Like most teams that have played the wire. :'1/otre Dame possesses pre-· point blowout defeat to t:CLA and the Irish this season. the Sun Devils cious little of that. for the most part, an upset loss to Stant(,rd. The Sun tigure 10 try to run :-.lotre Dame 
· final seconds with a big game on the Devils turned around the bad streak ragged. liCLA was able to do that line is no-man's land .t(>r the Irish by bettering San Diego State, 78-75. successfully in No\'l:mber, and women. The Devils feature a twin-tower Maryland ran on Notre Dame, albeit 
Tonight, Notre Dame will go to offense keyed by junior center Kym le~s extensively, three weeks ago the desert Southwest in an attempt Hampton and senior t<>rward Olivia The potential of Arizona State's to chart a courst:' through that no­Jones. Both of the 6-2 bookends running gamt:' may be hampered be­man's land. average 19 points per game, and cause of the absence of point guard 
The bi!:j·namt:' opponent will be combine to sweep 22 boards a night. Lynn Harley, whose knet· injury has put her out ofaction. Harlt'y is being spelled by Jodie Rathburn. who. al­though she is ranked among the na· tion's top 20 free throw shooters, is 
Home to Tempe 

Ruth Kaiser keeps Irish women on even keel 
not the ballhandler Harley is. By MIKE RICCARDI point scoring average will not light is a statistic most guards wouki Coast road trip this afternoon with Arizona State's number of turnovers up any Broadway marquees, her covet, and her freshman mark of H9 Ruth's "home" game in Tempe has climbed from 1-t to I H per game
Sports Writer 

steady play has been a constant on a feeds is a school record. against Arizona State. after four outings without Harley. Consistency -it's a quality that's Notre Dame team that has had its up Her defensive and ballhandling "I'm very excited," said the two­The Irish shot very well in last skills have resulted in a team-leading year starter before the team's weekend's wins over Detroit and
easily overlooked, not only in the and down performances. "In high school, I had to take con­50 steals this year, after swiping the departure yesterday. "But I'm trying Illinois-Chicago, and the emergence
real world, but also on the basketball court. trol," says Kaiser of her days at ball 61 times (a team-high) a year not to think about it -we're con­of Notre Dame's reboundmg 
Marcos de Niza High School in ago. cerned with practice and prepara­prowess. led by sophomore center
While the leapers and bounders 

with the flashy stats are easily Tempe, Ariz. "The papers would al­"Ruth is an excellent all-around tion right now.'' Mary Beth ~chueth, has increased recognized, it may be the ones that ways say that 't(>r Marcos to upset player," says OiSt~nislao. "She al­In the stands will be her Notre Notre Dame's ability to control the make the subtle contributions -a Coronado, Kaiser will have to play a ways draws the tough defensive as­Dame family -Kaiser's father is a tempo of a game. well-thrown pass, a nicely-set pick, a such-and-such kind ofgame.' signment, and does a good job with 19-t5 alumnus and two of her four DiStanislao stresses the impor­clutch free throw -that are most "Here. though, I don't have to it. She's very dependable." older brothers graduated in the mid­tance of di~allowing ASl' second 
important. (take control). I look to get the ball Nevertheless, it wa~ quite a dif­I970's. That family tradition was shots if the Devils are to be har­"That's just fine, thank you," say nessed tonight.
inside to Schoothie (Mary Beth ferent set of tlgures that won Kaiser enough to convince Ruth to come to 
most. "But we see it every day." Schueth) or over on the wing to honors as top player in the state of Notre Dame. "We won the rebounding statistic Oh. Laura (Dougherty) or Lynn (Ebben) Arizona her senior year -she "ASU is in Tempe, so I'd have been in the Alabama game (a 71-';6 loss See it every day. or whoever. I don't even look to averaged 21 points and 15 rebounds close to home and been able to play two weeks ago)," poinb out DiS­At every Notre Dame women's score that much, because we con­a game, and holds the state record the top teams," says Kaiser. "But tanislao. "But Alabama got a ton of 
Notre Dame provided a great oppor­
basketball game, the spectators can centrate on defense rather than of­for career points scored. baskets on second and third shots. be assured of two tlungs -Coach fense. I don't care if! score so long as "She wasn't surrounded by the tunity. I didn't come here because of Their shooting percentage wasn't Mary DiStanislao will put on a show, we win and I can contribute." kind of offensive talent we have the weather. that much better than ours. and No. 2';, sophomore Ruth Kaiser. But while statistics don't mean here," says DiStanislao. "She had to "It's a challenge to try to establish "I don't think it's so easy to run on 
to Kaiser, has do more .. .I wish she would show yourself as one of the top teams -the of a
will play a fine ball game for the Irish. much Ruth she us. With exception few -produced some numbers. especially off for us, because she has the like Coach says, the name (of Notre minutes here and there. we were
And they will probably never notice in the steals and assists categories, ability.'' Dame) and 2'> cents won't get you a able to control (No. 3) Maryland."
the latter. 

that demand attention. Kaiser will gt·t to show offher new cup of coffee. You've got to work "We had Maryland," agrees Irish scoring column in a game this The '>·I 0 forward's -t :1 assists so role for her home folks as the Irish see RUTH, page 10 see ASU, page 10 season. But, although her seven-far this year, many in key situations. women begin their t1rst-ever West Kaiser has yet to lead the Irish 



Paul 'Bear' Bryant dead at 69 
TUSCALOOSA. Ala. (AP) -Paul W. "Bear" Bryant, the llniversity of Alabama legend who retired last month ;!S the winningest coach in college football, died yesterday ofa heart attack. He was 69. 
The craggy-faced man in the houndstooth-checked hat had amassed a record 525 wins during his 3H-year coaching career. 
"He was a monumental figure in intercollegiate ath· lt:tics, a man who set standards not easily attainable by men," said Penn State Coach Joe Paterno. "He was a giant and we will miss him." 
Bryant. born in fordyce, Ark., where he earned his nickname by wrestling a bear as a teenager. said when he announced his retiremem Dec. 1-t that he was "a tired old man.'' 
Bryant's physician, Dr. William Hill, said Bryam's heart stopped at 12:2-t p.m. CST at Druid City Hospital, where he had been admitted late Tuesday complaining ofchest pains. 
"We did put a pacemaker through his chest and were able to restore a weak heartbeat for about an hour," he said. Bryant was declared dead at I :50 p.m., he said. 
Only hours before his death. officials at the hospital had reported Bryant in "good spirts" with his vital signs stable. 
former New York (iiants coach Ray Perkins, who was named to succeed Bryant as Alabama coach, visited him yesterday morning, Hill said. 
"This morning he joked about going to Las Vegas," Hill said. "He said one thing he wanted to do was go back to Arkansas and do some duck hunting." 
Brvant had been on medication t(>r mild heart troubles the past few years and was bt"ing monitored in the cardiovascular unit before his death, Hill said. 
Bryant was visiting a friend when he complained of chest pains Tuesday and was taken to the hospital by ambulance, Hill added.· 
''I'm shocked," said Florida coach Charley Pell, who played under Bryant. "I talked with Coach yesterday (Tuesday) morning and he was in good spirits and laughed often. It was the best talk we've had since I've known him." 
Former Mississippi coachJohn Vaught said: "I have to say that this has to be one of the biggest ~hocks I have had since I lost a member of my family. What can you 
say at a time like this?" 

A few hours before going to the hospital, Bryant had talked about his life since retiring Dec. 29 after the Liberty Bowl, a 21-I') Alabama victory over Illinoi~ that gave him a final coaching record of 525-H'>-1 7 over 5H 
years at Maryland, Kentucky, Texas A&\<1 and Alabama. 

"I don't wake up in the middle of the nigilt any more sweating and worrying some more about what might bt· happening" among his player~. Bryant said then. ··1 haven't looked at a t<>otball film. I may never ~ee anoth­er football film." 
But, he said, "I'll never get tired of t(mtball.'' 


I 
I 





