Manners-page 5 


Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon The 

Lebanese army turned back two 
more attacks by Druse and Pales­
tinian militiamen on Souk ei-Gharb 
yesterday, and U.S. military obser­
vers came under fire in the strategic 
Christian town overlooking Beirut. 
There was no resumption of the 

heavy U.S. Navy shelling that on 
Monday hit Druse positions around 
the hilltop town where President 
Amin Gemayel's government and its 
army face their biggest test. 
Monday's Navy action marked the 

first time that U.S. forces had directly 
supported the Lebanese army in its 
battle for Beirut against Syrian­
backed Druse and Palestinian 
militiamen. 
The Reagan administration has -emphasized that it is determined to 
protect Souk el-Gharb and one key 
administration official said army 
control ofthe town was "vital." 
Lebanese turn back attacks; 
U.S. observers fired upon 
ByJANE KRAVCIK gested several guidelines for parties. News Staff A SI fee would be charged to all women entering parties in men's 
A revised party proposal was dorms party spaces. The fee could passed at the Hall Presidents' Coun­not be charged in order to make a cil held last night in Keenan Hall. profit. 
The revised proposal, which will All men entering a party in a dif­
affect only the men's dorms, sug-ferent men's dorm would be re­quired to be on a guest list, and only students with a valid college LD. are permitted to enter parties.
Wovlear says parietals violated; 
These guidelines will be enforced by the H.P.C., and any dorm which violates this policy will loose 50/ of
Letter reminds rectors of rules their H.P T .C.-allocated funds for the 
U.S. planes flew frequent recon­naissance flights over the area yes­terday. Pentagon sources in Washington said Syrian troops may have fired an anti-aircraft missile at a Navy F-14, which was not hit. 
Despite the continuing fighting, an informed government source who refused to be identified by name said the Lebanese government was hopeful that Saudi Prince Ban­dar bin Sultan's mediation efforts would produce a cease-fire within the next 24 hours. 
But former Prime Minister Saeb Salam, who is involved in the meditation effort, said he doubted the negotiations would succeed soon because the Syrians "are playing for time." 
A lebanese army communique said "insurgents" tried to infiltrate Souk ei-Gharb before dawn but were driven back. 
A second infiltration attempt came in the afternoon, about an hour after a party ofsix or seven U.S. Army and Marine observers headed by an Army colonel arrived in the town. 
The Americans apparently were conferring with the local Lebanese command at their headquarters in the local hotel when the fighting broke out about a mile away. An hour-long battle followed in which hundreds of shells and rockets were exchanged, but there was no report that any Americans were wounded. 
Marine spokesman Major Robert Jordan of Shenandoah, Ga., said the team had been sent to collect in­formation on the situation at Souk ci­Gharb. Another Marine spokesman, Warrant Officer Charles Rowe ofSan Francisco, Calif., denied the obser­vers were sent to direct the fire of the Navy ships offshore. 
In Washington, President Reagan and congressional leaders resolved their dispute over the application of the War Powers Act 

Revised party proposal passed; HPC suggests party guidelines 
ByPATSAIN 
Copy Editor 
Rectors have not been uniformly enforcing parietals rules, said Father John Van Wovlear, Vice President of Student Affairs in a recent letter to all rectors. 
In a letter, Van Wovlear said he had been informed by students that not all parietals violations are being referred to Dean ofStudents. 
According to Dean of Students James Roemer, the letter reminded rectors that all parietals violations are to be referred to the Dean ofStu­dents. Neither rectors nor hall judi­cial boards have the authority to deal with parietals violations, Roemer said. 
Once a violation is referred to the Dean of Students, Roemer said he has the authority to recommend ap­propriate constructive activity, monetary fines, transfer of residence, probation, suspension, or even dismissal from the University, depending upon the seriousness of the violation. 
"If the facts clearly show, in a fair way, that a person stayed overnight in the room of a student of the op­posite sex, that violation could result in the student being separated from the university," said Roemer. "In the nine years I have been here, I do not know of an overnight viola­tion that has not resulted in the stu­
dent  being  separated  from  the  
University."  
No  specific  penalties  are  

described in DuLac, the University's Guide to Student Life, concerning parietals violations. "It would be ter­ribly difficult and unfair," said next year. Roemer. "We have to consider each case individually." 
"Ifsomeone passes out because of 

'The women's dorms seem 
medical reasons," an excuse would 
satisfied with the way in 
exist, he said. "If someone acciden­
in which their parties 
tally fell asleep in a room belonging 
are held now'
to someone of the oposite sex, however, and woke up the next morning, he would be charged with an overnight parietals violation. When asked why only men's 
"Most students do not find them­dorms were included in the selves falling asleep in strange proposal, H.P.C. president Mike Car­rooms," said Roemer. "You have to lin replied , "The women's dorms plan for it." seem satisfied with the way in which 
In the past, students have tried to their parties are held now." make the parietals rule fall under the The H.P.C. also passed an alcohol jurisdiction of both the Hall Judicial policy. The policy, which is the same Boards and the Dean of Students, one that was passed by last year's Roemer said. The change was not ap­H.P.C., encourages dorms 'to place proved because it would have more emphasis on "socialization in­weakened the parietals rules. stead of drinking" and to utilize the 
services of the Couseling and Psy­chological Services Center in 
dealing with any problems with al-
HPC distributes activity calendars 
cohol which they may encounter. 
Carlin felt that the proposal was useful only to the extent that it is en­forced. "The presidents sh9uld realize their roles to their dorms." 
The allocation of H.P.C. funds to each dorm for this year was also presented. The Sl8,100 was divided among the dorms for use in hall im­provement, with an average alloca­tion of S750. St. Edward's, Morrissey, and Howard Halls received the highest allocations of 
S820 each. Pasquerilla West received the lowest allocation of S520. 
A member of the Fall Festival 
Committee presented the plans for a 
variety show to be held during the 
festival week on Nov. 1. Each dorm 
was asked to prepare at least one 
comedy act to be presented in the 
show. A prize willbe awarded to the 
dorm with the best act. 
Rob Bertino, a student senator, 
discussed his plan to encourage the 
use ofSt. Michael's Laundry by Notre 
Dame women. Bertino has discussed 
this plan with St. Michael's, who 
have decided to measure the 
response to this publicity and offer 
their full services to women il 
enough interest is shown. Presently 
women are required to take theii 
laundry to St. Michael's and pay for i1 
on a cash and carry basis if they ust 
the service. If enough interest i~ 
shown, this service will be ex 
panded to include laundry pick-u( 
at women's dorms 

By TRIPP BALTZ 
News Staff 
This Monday, activities calendar books were distibuted to the stu­dents by the Hall Presidents' Coun­
cil. The books were put together by the Notre Dame Student Union. 
The book contains the academic calendar for both semesters and in­cludes lists of organizations, hall Masses, SU commissions, and other valuable information the average Domer needs. 
In past years the Student Union has published a smaller calendar book that was not popular among the student body. 
The idea came from Villanova Uni­versity, which publishes an activites calendar along with the rules of the University, similar to the purpose of 
Dulac. 
SU Public Relations Manager Mary Easterday was in charge of the production, and said the calendar book should be well received at Notre Dame, because it will inform 
students of events on campus each 
Miss Manners starts today
week. The activities book will be free this year because other caleadars 
"Miss Manners," a nationally-Martin was a critic and society 
were available to the students in the 
syndicated etiquette column by reporter during a long career at The 
bookstore. The total cost of the 
Judith Martin begins today in the Washington Post. She was barred 
5,000 calendars was $3,500. 
Showcase section of The Observer. from the wedding of Tricia Nixon 
The books were late because the 

Martin's tongue-in-cheek approach because of her comments on Tricia 
decision to produce them was not 
made until July, she said. 
Easterday said that next year more 

than 100 newspapers. The Observer including Miss Manners' Guide to 
information may be contained in the 
is the first college newspaper to car-Excruciatingly Correct Behavior. 
calendar, and possibly the informa­
ry "Miss Manners." 
tion in Dulac, also. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 21, 1983-pa~ 2 
I 

In Brief 
I 

A high-level nuclear waste shipment across northern Ohio and Indiana should he halted pending a federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission review, Attorney General Anthony Celehrezze told the NRC on Tuesday. "The proposed transpon of (spent) nuclear fuel ... involve~ ~ignificant potential for accental rt"lea~e of extremelv hazardou~ material." Celehrezze said. li.S. Dis· trictJudgeJohn Elt\;in in Buffalo, N.Y., has ordered the spent nuclear fud rotb moved from a defunct reproces~ing plant at West Valley, N.Y., and returned to utilitie~ in llhnoh and Wisconsin, where the material originated. Davida Matthews, spokeswoman for the Ohio Di~a~ter ~nvice~ Agency, said that federal ofticiab have chosen ln­ter~tate HO to the Ohio Turnpike acros~ Ohio as the preferred ship· ping route. -:IP 
The Reagan administration used illegal coercion last year when it tried to persuade four million aged, blind and disabled welfare recipients to disclose how much they are worth, the U.S. Court of Appeals ruled in Washingon yesterday. The court, in an opinion byJudge Ahner Mikva, said a form mailed to the four million recipients of SSI seeking access to the information "makes a mockery of the consent requirement." "The form itself contained poorly veiled threats that the recipients' benefits would he terminated if they failed to sign the forms," Mikva wrote. An es­timated three million SSI recipients signed the forms. The court or· dered the IRS not to turn the tax returns over to the Social Security Administration. -AP 
John Downey climbed the Great Wall 
for the first time in 1952 under heavy guard. He was a CIA spy sen· tenced to life imprisonment hut given a captive's holiday to marvel at the new Communist China. This time accompanied by his Chinese-horn wife Audrey, :\-year-old son jackie and and a cheery guide from the state-run China Friendship Association, he climbed it as "an old friend" ofthe country that jailed him for 21 years. Downey was 22 when his spy plane was shot down over Manchuria on a CIA mission during the Korean War. He had spent halfhis life in prison by the time China freed him I 0 years ago in the first warming of U.S.­Chinese relations. Now 5:3 and a lawyer in New Haven, Conn., Dov.lney recently returned for the first time on a goodwill tour with his family. The Chinese feted them with banquets and toasts to Chinese-U.S. friendship while recalling the doings of the "former American spy," duly reported by the government-run press. -AP 
le~~::~~~~d ~~~~~~is~~as~~!~~~~~e~!~~~! 
heath of 01 con,titutional dbpute over war power~ while authorizing thl· adminhtr;~tion to keep 1.200 Marines in Lebanon for the next IH month~. Tht· compromi'e promi'e' to stem a burgeoning confronta· t•on about wht·thcr the prn1dent had overstepped hi~ authority hy rdu,mg to tkclare the Marint·s' peacekl·eping mis~ion a matter sub­ject to n>ngrt·,sional approval under the War Powers Act. The settle· mt·nt acknowlcdgt·~ the congressional rok and imposes specific limib on the peacekeeping assignment. But it effectively guarantees that the military mission will not he scuttled hy the lawmakers for IH months. It also serves to remove the issue from 1984 presidential 
politic~. -.·IP 

A nuclear freeze resolution and a substitute 
proposal for a "build-down" in nuclear weapons were sent to the Senate yesterday by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee with a suggestion that both proposals be defeated. The freeze resolution, originally sponsored by Sens. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and Mark llatlield, R-Ore., calls for the United States and the Soviet Union to negotiate a mutual and verifiable freeze of nuclear weaponry at present levels. It was defeated by a I0·., vote, with Democrat Ed· ward Zorin~ky of Nebraska, joining the solid Republican majority. Percy's alternative endorses the so-called build-down, which would allow continued development of new weapons in conjunction with tht~ removal ofolder weapons at a faster rate. -AP 
Weather. · I 
Considerable cloudiness on today and cool with a high in mid to upper 50s. Cloudy and cool tonight with a chance of sprinkles, and low in the low to mid 40s. Cloudy tomor· row and still cool with high in mid to upper 50s. 
Attracting attention unattractively 
Some people get all the breaks. 
Take Christine Craft, for example. Just three years ago, Miss Craft was just another news anchor at just an· other television station in just another city -Kansas City, Mo., to he exact. The station's new~ ratings were not spectacular. In fact, the news director felt that the show was not attracting a large enough audience. 
So Miss Craft was demoted to the position ofoil"-the· air reporter. According to her, she was told hy the sta· 
tion·~  news  director  that  she  was  "too  old,  too  
unattractive"  and  would  not  "defer  to  men."  She  
resigned rather than accept the demotion.  

Ofcourse, it doesn't sound like Craft got any breaks. But you've only read part of the story. 
Miss Craft took her case to court. She sued KMBC-TV and Metromedia Inc. (which has since sold the station) on charges of fraud and sex discrimination. The case took two years, hut a federal court jury in Kansas City finally awarded her s.n'i,OOO in actual and 
5125,000 in punitive damages. Metromedia is appealing the decision. 
As if that isn't enough of a hreak, Craft is now also enjoying the many benefits of instant fame and popularity. In recent weeks she has appeared on ABC's "Nighline," NBC's "Late Night with David Letter· man" and the syndicated "Donahue." 
Craft's popularity has also taken her to the speaking tour. She'll he giving 30 talks in the next 12 months, including stops at Marquette University and the Young Presidents Association. She'll be making $4,250 per 

lecture. She has even quit her job as anchor at KEYT-TV in Santa Barbara, Ca., to devote more time to her new· found celebrity status. 
Not had for someone who was demoted because of poor ratings. 
Craft won her suit based on two points: I ) fraud; and 
2) sex discrimination. Craft was able to convince the jury that KMBC hired her for her jourmilistic creden­tials, and therefore, could not validly demote her for any other reasons. If Craft thought her joh was to be a journalist -and she thinks she performed this job well -she could not he demoted for being "unattractive." 
This point is well-taken. An employee must know his/her joh, and the grounds on which he/she can lose that job. An employee must he aware of the standards which must he met. Ofcourse, if an employee's perfor­mance falls below the established standard, he/she· could he demoted. Miss Craft claims that she was never told that her job security dep~nded upon her good 
_The_Obs.eryer_ 
Composition Editor...... ............. Troy Illig Composition Assistatlt .,o,tilllooking Typesetters .............. Michelle, Carol Cialc' News Editor. .....j elf Chopin Copy Editor....................... . ....... Pat Sain Sports Copy Edltor..................jane Healey Editorials l.ayoul........................ Tom Sapp Features Lay~ul ........................ Mary Healy ND Day Editor................... Kathleen Doyle Ad De.~i!(n ................................... llill O'Brien Pbolo!(mpber.......................... Paul Cifarelli Guest Appearances .. H·p•t~t' foz, "Paging Dr. William' ...". Assorled helpful elve' 
Dear Tuesday nite staff-/bank you for perservin!( my sanity. The paper will make deadline. 
The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The ObMrver.•s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa.nt Marys College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($t5 per semester) by wnt.ng The Obeerver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lndoana 46556 
The ObMrver IS a member of The Auocleted Pre... All reproduction nghts are reserved 

phys_\cal 
dttrCAdiVe,he 

David Dziedzic 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Wednesday 

looks. Her demotion for not being attractive seems un· 
fair. 
However, Craft and the jury are off base when they 
raise the sex discrimination issue. Craft was not 
demoted because she was an unattractive woman, she 
was demoted because she was an unattractive anchor· 
person. 
There are three important qualities which a televi· sion anchor must posses: journalistic ability, intelligence, and physical attractiveness. 
The last quality is not essen· tial for a newspaper writer, or a radio announcer. But it is a must for a television per· sonality. Any attempt to deny the importance of this quality Is ridiculous. 
1 Craft states, however, that "Getting the story and get· ting it straight, that's· first. Looking good should be down the list." Probably no one in the business would argue this point. However, looking good should not be so far the list that it is dis· regarded. Physical at· tractiveness adds to the image of credibility that a news anchor must display. 
Television is a visual medium, and in order to be suc­cessful, the product must be attractive. just as most female anchors are considered good-looking, so are most male anchors. There is not a double-standard in this area. 
There are, however, many inequities in the business of television news. Women anchors have been arguing for quite some time that they are underpaid with respect to their male collegues. Only a few women anchors ever hit the big time, but even fewer hit the big bucks. Many analysts claim that such a situation exists in many occupations, and that television news is not dif· ferent. 
But Craft's suit had nothing to do with equal pay for equal work. And she has not traveled around the country to proclaim "the plight offemale anchors." In· stead, she is raking in the bucks by telling everyone how she stood up against the industry. 
Some people get all the breaks. 


HOWdo I know if the Lord is calling me to minister as a Brother? 
H0 Wdoes my being a Brother meet my need for prayer, community sharing and service? 
HOW do I pray to discover God's call in my life? 
WHATare the various ministries of Holy Cross Brothers? 
H 0 W do Brothers respond to the needs of our day: commitment to Jesus in the poor, the oppressed, in areas of social justice? 
---+-4--­

WHATis the process for becoming a Brother'? 

Con:~act: 
Br. David Baltrinic, c.s.c. 103 Columba Hall Notre Dame, IN. 46556 
239-7830 

L. 
-----·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, September 21, 1983-page 3 
Police search for clues to help investigation of editor's death 
Associated Press 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -Police sought clues yesterday in the slayings of a Fort Wayne newspaper editor, his wife and son, while a 2­year-old girl -the only survivor of the "brutal, sadistic slaughter"­recuperated in a hospital. 
Police spokesman Thomas R. Engle said investigators have no known suspects or substantial leads in the deaths of Dan Osborne, 35, editorial page editor of the Fort Wayne News-Sentinel; his wife, Jane, and their 11-year-old son, Ben. 
Fort Wayne Deputy Police Chief David Racine issued an urgent plea at a news conference yesterday, ask­ing the public to come forward with any information that might help au­thorities in their investigation. 
Osborne and his son apparently were bludgeoned in their sleep Friday night with a blunt instrument, Allen County Coroner Roland Ahlbrand said following autopsies yesterday. Mrs. Osborne was killed by blows to the head with a flatter object, which Ahlbrand said could have been a hand. 
Ahlbrand said he believed Mrs. Osborne was raped, but he could not confirm it medically. 
Osborne's daughter, Caroline, 2, was, found in her room .playing with toys about 10 a.m. Monday after spending more than 48 hours with her dead parents and brother. 
Caroline underwent surgery at a Fort Wayae hospital for injuries sus­tained when she was sexually as­saulted, said a police source who asked not to be identified. 
"She is reading books with nurses and playing with toys and carrying on like any 2-year-old," he said. 
Mrs. Osborne's parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Dewell of Tulsa, Okla., flew to Fort Wayne Monday night to talk to police and take custody of 
Caroline. 
Ahlbrand, who Monday night described the slayings as a "brutal, sadistic slaughter," said the three victims appeared to have died from severe head injuries from a blunt in­strument such as a bat. 
Police later said they recovered "a bloody baseball bat," believed to be a m~rder weapon, from the girl's bedroom. They also were examining a portable radio, believed to belong to Ben Osborne, that was found next . to his mother, covered with blood and hair. 
Engle said investigators were in the midst of collecting evidence, making background checks, telephone contacts and looking into the victims' activities since they came to Fort Wayne in April from Kansas City, where Osborne was as­
sistant business editor of the Kansas City Star. 
Notre Dame invites 'four often' 
1 
top anthropologists in the world 
ByJOHN MENNELL 
News Staff 
Within the next two months, Notre Dame will be the host to what Notre Dame Anthropology Chair­man Kenneth Moore considers, "four of the top ten anthropologists in the world." 
Moore said these four anthropologists have had, "tremendous impact on their field," and that they, "have more readers in the general public than in anthropol­ogy." 
"For an undergraduate student who does not totally understand the subject matter, it would still be an enriching experience to see one of these' world renowned scholars," said Moore. 
Bdtish social anthropologist Mary-
Haggar holds first social activity 
By MEGAN KOREMAN 
News Staff 
Students will have an opportunity to dance on the Saint Mary's College campus this Saturday, Sept. 24 from 9 pm to 2 am. The "Five Dorms Dance" will be the first major stu­dent social event to be held in the new Haggar College Center. 
"The goal of the present student government is to get more unity be· tween the halls, " said Ellen Byrne, chairman of the dance committee. "We hope that the dance will help to increase campus unity as well as celebrate the opening of Haggar Center." 
Notre Dame students who present their identification cards will be admitted to the dance free of charge. "We're doing this in the hope that Notre Dame students will come over and familiarize them­selves with the Haggar Center be­cause it really is a beautiful place," Byrne said. · 
Tickets for Saint Mary's students will be available at the door. A coupon for a free drink will be in­cluded in the fl admission price. Because no alcohol is allowed in the Haggar Center, that drink will be a non-alcoholic strawberry daquiri or frozen margarita. Also discount snack bar coupons will be handed 1 out at all the doors. 
The disc jockey for the "Five Dorms Dance" will be Pangborn resident Buster Lopes. He is slated to play a variety ofdancing music. 
Douglas will speak tonight on "The based on his analysis of ritual in 
Four Humors and Other Struc­primitive society." Turner's lecture turalist Fanttasies." She studied at will be presented Oct. 4 at 8:00 in Oxford and is now the A val on the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Professor in the Humanities at Anthony Wallace, "the leading Northwestern University. Her latest psychological anthropologist in the book Risk and Culture is co­world " according to Moore, will be authored with Aaron Wildavsky of the third lecturer. Wallace received the University ofCalifornia, Berkley. his PhD at the University of Pennsyl­Her other publications include Im­vania where he is now a professor. 
plicit Meanings, Natural Symbols Wallace's lecture "Paradigms and 
and Purity and Danger. "Her books Revolutions in the Arts" will be 
are truly profound," Moore said. presented as part of the Art Depart­
The lecture, sponsored by the ments Rafael Conference on Oct. 14 
Theology Department, will be 8:00 at 2:00 in the Snite Museum. 
in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Marvin Harris will be the fourth 
Victor Turner, wlw__ cur.n;Slty speaker in the Inaugural Lectures holds the Commonwealth Chair at series. Harris studied at Columbia the University of Virginia, will University and is now a Graduate lecture on the "Body, Brain and Research Professorat the University Culture." ofFlorida. 
Turner's lecture is the third in Moore referred to Harris' The Rise 
"The Notre Dame Inaugural ofAnthropological Theory as "the 
Lectures in Anthropology." The first major work of the 1960's." Harris 
two lectures were last year. Accord­will lecture on Nov. 15 at 3:30 in the 
ing to Moore, "Turner's reputation is Memorial Library Auditorium. 
I IRELAND PROGRAM I 


St. Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland IMPORTANT MEETING Carroll Hall -Madeleva Building Saint Mary's Campus Wednesday, September 21,1983 6:30pm 
Slides will be shown and information given by students who were at St. Patrick's in pastyears. 

Meetingfor all those 
interested in working 
TECHNICAL STAFF 
for 
FIDDLER ON THE ROOF 
-A StudentPlayers Production-
Wednesday, 8:00-9:30pm 
Little Theatre in LaFortune 



SENIOR INFORMALITES 
Pick Up Your Ticket Packets In The LaFortune Lobby Between 12:30 And 7PM. TODAY ONLY!! 
ALSO -Tickets For The Saturday Night Party May Be Bought At The Door For Anyone Not Signed Up. 
Questions and info., call Teresa (1737) or Mark (1855) 
IT LOOKS LIKE A CHECK & WORKS LIKE A CHECK 

SO WHY IS IT CALLED SHARE DRAFT? 
Because it"s better ...There·s no service charge and no minimum balance required. Plus, any balance over seven hundred and fifty dollars earns daily interest. Plus. you may choose overdraft protec­tion at no charge. Plus you get an instant duplicate of every check and monthly statements. Compare that with any other checking in town. If you·re a member. it"s easy to start your share draft ac­count. You see. it"s called Share Draft because members own a share of the Credit Union. If you·re not a member. ask about that. You may be pleasantly surprised to find you can be part of this financial cooperative called the Notre Dame Credit Union. 
JUST LIKE CHECKINGo;;J/v 
YOUR 
NOTRE DAME

' D
CREDIT UNION 
239-6611 


$$ WANTED $$ USCvs.ND fOOTBALL TICKETS (213) 481-7079 
--SENIORS!-:---­
We still have spots available for Senio·r Portraits. 
I 

Call RightAway. 
239-5183 9:30 a.m.-5:00p.m. Patty 3097 jane 6849 after6:30 
-


SAVE$$$ 
2.5 cubic Dormitory Refrig. 
$35.00 for School Year Limited Quantities 
BURNS RENT-ALLS INC. 
332 W. Mishawaka Ave. 
Mishawaka, IN 
259-2833 

View~~o__i_n_t________w_e-dn-es-da-y,-Se-pt-em-b-er-21_,~-98_3_p_ag_e4 
Are you planning to go to law school? 
As a governmt·nt major, I face this question 1.:ontinuou~ly. and ;llways give the same respon~e: "No." It b a phrase as 1.:ommon as the oft-rept·ated student groan, "I have so mu(.'h work to do." 
Michael L. Brennan 
And so it goes 
At times I feel as though my entire peer group is marching inexorably in the direction of law school, lured hy three more years of student life, a versatile degree that is highly re.~pccted in our society, ;md hy a job market that has held up remarkably well despite recent sharp increases in lawyer production (last year, 9S'l. of those who passed the Bar exam landed jobs in law-related fields). Money, as always, also contributes to law school's popularity. Starting salaries for recent graduates range from $11,000 to S43,500, with the average earnings for attorneys start­ing in private industry being $21,000. 
In the United States, there are roughly 42S,OOO lawyers, and another 127,828 en­rolled lawyers-to-he. Here at Notre Dame, 199 students from the class of '83 wt;re accepted to law schools across the country, represent­ing 13/. of last year's graduating class. Law school has obviously become one of the most popular places for America's best and brightest students to congregate. Do we need any more lawyers? Or do we simply need more good lawyers? 
When friends tell me oftheir tentative plans to attend law school, I ask them why. Their responses vary, hut revolve around three main themes: it is "safe" (i.e. one can avoid the evils ofthe real world for three more years), it provides sound mental discipline and thought-process training regardless of the profession they eventually choose, and third­ly, the often heard response, "What else is there to do?" Rarely do people actually want to go to law school, and less frequently do they want to correct a flawed legal system, or fight injustice on a local, national or global scale. 
If future lawyers do not thirst for justice, who will? Do they care that Congress has voted to spend S 11 5 million on the produc­tion of nerve gas while 50/. of Nigerian children die of malnutrition before the age of five? We arc surrounded by injustices, includ­ing the not-so-subtle sexism on campus. Does the Pre-taw Society care? 
Many of those who plan to attend law school do care, they care a lot -they are cut­out for law careers because it is something that springs from their hearts. Many others ap­pear to respond only to the expectations of society, oftheir parents, oftheir peers. Parents 
all too often expect to see dividends from the $40,000 investment called Notre Dame. If a student attends law school only to avoid let­ting his parents down, is he letting himself down? 
We need good lawyers. But we could also use some better politicians, teachers, and definitely some better television screen writeI rs. Are the studies ofpoetry, philosophy, music, art, or history too impractical for our increasingly computerized and pragmatic society? Has our society killed the Renais­sance man? 
Before taking the U>AT's, ask yourself (honestly) if you want to be a lawyer. Con­sider the options of a temporary job, volun­teer work, travel, graduate school, or study abroad. If you come up with anything good, let me know -I need something to do with my life ... 

Will the lunch lines ever go away? 
The one place virtually every student must visit cad1 day is the dining hall. Unfortunately, it is also one of the higge.~t .~ources offrustra­tion on campus. 
Mike Wilkins 

Here, there, and back 
The lines in tht· dining halls ;1re, once again, unhearahly long. The lunch line~ arc especial­ly h;1d, hut thi' year the dinner lines and sofTletime~ even the hreakJ:1st line~ arc much longer than tht·y ·'hould he. The long lines of· ten cause ~tudenb to ru~h through a meal to avoid hcing latt· to class, a ~ure source of frustration and indigestion. 
This has ht·cn a frequent problem in the past hut this year it seems worse than ever. Tht· lines have dit'd down some ~ince the ht·ginning of tht.· year, a~ they do every year 
when students hecorne adjusted to their new schedules. Hut they are still troublesome, especially at noon. 
Students and the administration have looked for answers to this problem before, but no one has ever come up with a workable solution. Each year the problem is tolerated, though not ·without complaint, and students continue to rush through meals. Perhaps now, since the problem has become so had, a solu­tion should he found to put an end to long lines for good. 
The lines are worst during lunch on Tues­days and Thursdays, especially between the end ofthe I 1:00 class and the beginning ofthe 1·1 c; class. Almost everyone has a class scheduled during one of these periods, and many have classes at hoth times. An incredibly large number of people, therefore, are eating lunch between I2: IS and I:00 on Tuesday and Thursday. 
An obvious answer to this problem would be to schedule classes during the noon hour on Tuesday and Thursday as is already done on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. While this might require some schedule adjusting, the effort would he worthwhile. With more students in class during the times when the lines are currently the worst, fewer people would be eating lunch at any particular time. Long lines in the dining hall would become a thing of the past. 
Another answer to this problem would be to have all the lines open throughout lunchtime. In the North Dining Hall, where lines are the worst, having certain lines closed until around noon causes a hack-up of stu· dents before the rush of people comes from 
I I :00 classes. This has also been a problem in the morning, since some lines are closed during breakfast, causing long backlogs in the lines that remain open. 
As a long-term answer, the Administration should find within its heart and its budget, plans for a new dining hall. The area between the Pasquerillas and the library would he a perfect place to locate a new dining hall. This would be an ideal location for students living in the Pasquerillas, Flanner, Grace, and even Farley and Hreen-Phillips. The building would . also serve students corning from the library or 
any of the other buildings in that area. 
There may he problems, financial and 
otherwise, with the solutions to the problem 
oflon·g lines in the dining halls. But an answer 
to this prohlem must be found as soon as pos­
sible. Long lines have been a problem for too 
long and are causing too many problems for 
both students and dining hall workers. The 
solution to this prohlern may not be an easy 
one, but it is a solution which must he found 
to end one of the most frustrating problems 
students face each day. 

P. 0. BoxQ 
Improper response to attack 
JJear Editor: 

Just a brief reaction to Mike McClory's 
column of September IS concerning the 
Korean Air l.incs massacre. In his section on 
what our rt·sponse to this attack should he, he 
hasically ridiculed tht· Reagan administra­
tion's po~ition. Referring to the U.S. demand 
th;u the Soviets compensate the victims' 
t:1milie~ for their lossc~. McClory states that 
asking li>r money is "~imply to set an accept­
able price on the downing ofplam:s." llow ah· 
surd. Tht· li.S. sec~ this crash a~ one where 
someone ( tht· Sovit't IInion) is at fault, and 
that somt·ont· should ht· sued li>r damagcs (as 
commonly happt·ns when a plane crashes 
l'lst·whert· dut· to CIU,t'S othn than missile at· 
tack. ) In .,hort, the I·....,. docs not st•t· the 
downing of Flight oo-as worth a certain 
amount of money; rather it kds that the 
families left fatherless should he compensated 
in ~orne way li>r their rcspcctivt· losses. In this 
way, the survivors can at lea~t cx;tct some pleasure in seeing the Soviets implicitly admit their mistake. 
Moreover, instead of making demands similar to those of the Reagan administration, McClory would act diJlerently: simply hope that this massacre doesn't happt.·n again. llow useless. Hope, hy itself is not enough to coun­ter the ever-existent Soviet threat. Some form of action in protest, however minimal, is necessary to show our absolute disgust at this terrorist act. Perhaps such action would prevent this form of harharisrn from recur­ring. McClory's "proper response" to this act, being in fact a nonresponse, is simply insuffi­cient. 
Michael]. Beaudine 

Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is sul>ject to the dai~v constraints of tbe page. /.etters should be brief and deal 
tl'itb specific issues. They must be tvped and /Jectr the addres.~. telephone number, and signature ofthe author. b.itiats andpseudo­nyms are unacceptable. Reproductions, car­lum copies, or letters addressed to persons otber than the editor are not acceptable. All letters are subject to editing and become the propertv of The Ohserver. 
Editor's note: The Observer is looking for talented editorial cartoonistsfrom the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. Call 239-747I and ask for Keith. 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic /fox IJ. v,.tre name./.\' ·/6))(, I.! I')J.!3<J· 'l303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
nw Oh.wrt'<'l' 1, the Hlllqll'ndent nt'WSJXtpcr puhhshnl h1· tht· studenb ot the llni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas l't·r,ttl' ot Notre l>amc du l.ac ;md 'oainl .\I an··,< ollt-ge It dot·s not nece~sanh· rdltTI News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen the poltnt·' ot the adnunl\tratton of nthcr 1n,ttiUtHHl The new' i~ reportt•d as at News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suz<tu"" i..a Croix cur;ltdY JJHI ;,, ohttTtlll'h a~ po'"hll' I n'ignnlnlllonals rcprt·~t·nt the opinon of a Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . ............. Mark Miotto m.IJontv of till' l·.dnon.llllo.lrd < ommt·nLirl<''· lt·ut-r~. JtHI the lns1de < :olumn prt·~cnt Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamiltoc System Manager ............... Kevin Williams the l'll'W~ of thnr author' < olumn 'Pa<t· "av,nl,ll'lt-to all memht·r~ olthe n1mmunitv. Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower .md t ht· frt'l' I.'SIHt'"" 111 ofl ,lnlllg opinion' on t Jlll))ll'. 1hrough lctter,. 1s encouraged. .\ports /:'dilor .... . ........... \lichacl Sullivan 
Founded November 3, I966 
Showcase 
Wednesday, September 21, 1983-page 5 
Passionate Heart 
Miss Manners 
Courtship in reverse 
by Judith Martin 
H
ow does one conduct a courtship backward? What are the steps for proceeding from the greatest intimacy to opening an ac­quaintanceship that one hopes will lead to friendship and then romance? 
1t took Miss Manners a long time to understand the question. When people first started asking her what to do after they spent the night together, she thought they had confused her area ofexpertise and were consulting her about what makes a nutritious breakfast. 
Sometimes it would be spelled out to her that the social event was what is known as a one-night stand and that the question was what was required afterward. Most ofthose who made the inquiry were feeling aggrieved because nothing happpened afterward. Then she would have to spell out what the name meant and explain that no, dear, she could not chastise a participant for not calling and sending flowers the next day, because those gestures had to do with another, unrelated social form called courtship. 
The surprise was that the two forms are sometimes related, at least sequentially. Some people apparently do call the next day, voluntari­ly, but are then stymied as to how to proceed from there to begin the courtship. 
My, my, isn't modern life full ofsurprises? Now that Miss Manners understands the question, she is perfectly willing to address it. 
The answer is that there are stages ofcourtship that cannot be skipped ifany sort of romance is to ensue. Getting to know some­thing about another person's background, opinions, and tastes is es­sential in addition to memorizing the features so as to be able to recognize the face by daylight. 
Drawingout the thrill and uncertainty ofdiscovering that a person you find attractive also finds you attractive has generally been con­sidered one of the most rewarding aspects ofcourtship, and that, of course, is lost ifthere is no intermediate step between the exchange ofglances between strangers and the exchange ofeverything else, except possibly surnames, between strangers. It does seem to Miss Manners a shame to remove the suspense from the drama oflife. 
But be that as it may, it does not serve as an excuse for removing the civilities as well. In courtship, these consist of: 
I. Establishing what seems like disinterested interest in the other person. That is, one shows a lively attention to discovering the other's attributes hut with no sense that one is going to appropriate them. You would be, for example, fascinated hy the other person's field ofendeavor, hut not the least curious about how much dis­posable income thi~ might provide to anyone who teamed up with that person. 
2. 
Indicating an interest that you seem to be fighting, because your life is in good order and, rather than hoping to improve it trough an alliance, you are afraid that an alliance might disrupt it. 

3. 
Allowing yourselfto be won over, in spite ofyourself, because ofthe other person's superiority. 


There will be those who disdain this sequence as being baroque, which indeed it is, and demand to know why they cannot simply state their needs at the beginning and skip these preliminaries. 
Well you tried that, didn'tyou? The fact is that no one is pleased to find that he or she has simply filled a minimal, uncomplicated need. We want to have all those individual interior complications ex­amined, admired and adored, along with our outsides. 
So one must, however incongruously, refrain from using the ul­timate intimacy as an excuse for assuming other intimacies, which have not been duly earned. By being pleasantly aloofin other respects, one encourages others to pursue emotional intimacy through the time-honored steps ofcourtship. 
Anybody who remembers when movies were routinely shown 
con tinuously, and it was necessary to be able to see a finale and then dismiss it from one's mind and start at the beginning as iffresh, will understand what Miss Manners means. 
Dear Miss Manners -Have you ever heard ofa bride-to-be being reproved for writing thank you notes too soon? 
My daughter had a shower on a Saturday evening and wrote and mailed the thank yous the very next day. Some ofthe guests received their notes on Monday. Her fiance gently chided her for being so prompt. Having never seen such a question raised before and not being able to find an answer, I hope you can come to our rescue. She has written each thank you on the day a gift was received, but is now holding the notes for fear of being chided again. 
Gentle Reader -Is it too late to put a stop to this wedding? That child ofyours is a treasure and Miss Manners does not want her marrying someone who does not appreciate her. 
Ifonly he realized how lucky he is. Her promptness is not only a sign ofefficiency that could fill the rest ofhis life with ease and pleasure, but her politeness -and what is it but the most flattering politeness to appear enraptured with a present that you cannot stop yourselffrom showing immediate gratitude?-is a rare graciousness that will he the crowning touch to a well-organized household. 
The immediate benefit to him, if he but knew it, is that he will never encounter his own mother in a state ofanger or despair, pas­sing on the complaints offriends that Charlotte hasn't thanked anybody, along with the request that he "make her" do so. 
The long-range benefits are beyond description. 
Now that Miss Manners has given vent to her astonishment, she feels obliged to admit that yes, she did hear once before ofa similar case, in which the bride had been advised that it was "wrong" to write thank you letters for wedding presents until after the wedding. As Miss Manners suspected, this outrageous misinformation was traceable to a source who invented it from wishful thinking because she had planned to write these letters on paper marked with her married name, and knew she couldn't use that before the wedding. 
by Vic Sciulli 

features staffreporter 
A 
lot more people are going to hearPassionworks, Heart's new album, than their last album, Private Auditions. Auditions was a good album, but the first single released, "This Man is Mine" was one ofthe weakest songs they ever put out and gave fans a wrong impression ofwhat the rest ofthe album was like. 
Fortunately things won't repeat themselves this time around.Passionworks is more laid back than Heart's earlier LPs. Screaming guitars and poundingdrums have given way to a more mellowed and bluesy sound, but with a greater emotional intensity. Ann Wilson's voice is more seductive than angry, adding to the mellowed sound. 
"How Can I Refuse," the LP's first single, definitely won't alienate fans. Heart has always had strong drum­ming and Denny Carmassi doesn't disappoint here. The rest ofthe song, though, is pretty routine, including the bass opening, which sounds like Foreigner's "Hot Blooded." Speaking ofForeigner, remember "Juke Box Hero" from a few years ago? Well, we see a womanized reincarnation ofthat song in "Blue Guitar." "Guitar" is about a female rocker who finds the guitar and "makes herselfa local scene" with it. Again, nothing spectacular, except that the band resists the temptation to turn the song into a heavy metal overture. 
Heavy metal is one phrase that often has been used to describe the hand in its eight year existence. Founded by sisters Ann and Nancy Wilson in Seattle, the band's debut albumDreamboatAnnie took them to the top of the rock world. All did not go so smoothly afterward, though; the band experienced numerous personnel changes and problems with its record company in the following years. The latest personnel change came last year after the release ofPrivate Auditions. Drummer Michael Derosier and bassist Steve Fossen left the band and were replaced by current drummer Carmassi and bassist Mark Andes. Heart's album have always reflected the events in their personal lives and this one is no exception. Listen to "Johnny Moon" and you'll see how much the Wilson sister's attitudes about things have changed. There is a feeling ofcontent and satisfac­tion that runs through the entire album. "Johnny Moon" is another encounter with the magic man and, !ike the first time, his charms are too hard to resist. This passive attitude toward men is a far cryfrom the fury ofBebeLe 
Strange which was recorded after another difficult time 
for the hand three years ago. Compare "Break" from Bebe to "Johnny Moon." 
The dust is gathering where I stand Now I know there's a crack in thisplan Aftera while therejust ain't no more magic, man My patience ran out I gottarun out ofa habit that used to befun. 

Now, "Johnny Moon." 
johnnyI wannafollow you outside I wannafeel that high johnny, you I can pretend with You're the only oneI can really bend with Take me across the river Styx Fill my eyes withfire tricks Anythingyou got upyour sleeve Anythingyou tell me,]ohnny, I'll believe. 

There are a few real rockers and "Sleep Alone" is one ofthe album's best, with some wicked guitar licks and upbeat drumming. "Allies," a rock-n-roll version of the you-and-me-against-the-world theme, is one ofthe album's real gems. Written byJourney memberJonat­han Cain, the song features nice piano and synthesizer work by David Paich which gives the song aJourney­like sound. Definitely a potential hit for the band. 
Vic Scuilli is a junior Arts and Letters major from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He is also an Observer news editor_ 

An epic ofthe old South 
by Prof. Frederick Wright 
I
n fashioning his 1971 novel, Author Ernest Gaines gave the reader a great, albeit fictional black woman whose 110 years spanned the period ofsocial and political revolution begun by the emancipa­tion proclamation and continued through the civil rights struggles of the current century. The world which Gaines created for MissJane Pittman is frequently not the place a Harriet Tubman or a Mary McCloud Bethume would have inhabited. Pit­tman's environs were too far off the beaten path for the likes ofa Booker T. Washington or a Frederick Douglas; hence, the author's preference for fiction. Jane's uni­verse was small (she never left Louisiana), it was dreary (she worked for whites as a domestic all ofher life), and it was dangerous. Yet, because we have so Iitle in­formation about those black mil­lions who did live through Redemption, vigilante rule, and agrarian peonage, MissJane Pit­tman's story became not only in­structive but also fascinating and exciting. 
Often the process oftransferring a novel to the screen results in failure. Happily however this 1974 made­for-television movie actually seems to improve the original product. The script, written by Tracy Keenan Wynn, and the great acting ofCicely Tyson combined to hand television and the viewing public one ofits finest evenengs. This week the 
N utre Dame community gets an op­portunity to view this fine film. 
It's been more than a century since the end ofReconstruction, and since that time most ofus have come to accept and live with certain generalizations about the American South and the role ofrace in shaping that region. So finely crafted is Gaines' book and so respectful ofthe original text is this film, that these generalizations about the civil war and race are challenged. 
Unlike several generations of American Historians, Jane Pittman seems never in doubt about the causesofthewar. In herworld there was only one reason to fight, and a Union victory could mean only one thing, freedom. Although she was born a slave, and as an eleven year old freed-woman lived through the heydays ofthe Ku Klux Klan and other self-styled racist law and order organizations, Jane realized that all whites weren't evil. Still, Jane Pit­tman and others, both black and white, were constantly at the mercy ofevil men. 
The skillful youths ofthe movie's characters allow us to witness an in­adequate attempt at Reconstruction, a retreat from the promises ofthe 14th and 15th amendments, the ad­vent ofracial segregation, and the . ways in which cotton and its dominance subdued blacks in much ofthe South. 
While violence and its threatened use held most people in check for decades, in the end it was really the willingness of regular and ordinary folks to defY local custom and risk life and property in demanding equal rights which usht!red in the civil rights movement ofthe 1950's and 1960's. Like Rosa Parkds, Miss Jane Pittman simply arrived at the morning when she could no longer be frightened. And in her bravery the community within which she lived was also able to join the 2th century and the effort aimed at realization ofemancipation. 
Frederick Wright is an assistant professor ofgovernment at Notre Dame. 
The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social con­cerns. There will be a discus­sion afterwards, led by Pro­fessor Kathleen Weigert and Piper Griffin. 

r 
' 
Sports Briefs 
Try-outs for the ND women'sbask~tball team will he held Monday, September 26 in the ACC Pit at 7 p.m. Ifthere are any questions, call 239-5420. -The Observer. 
The Saint Mary's tennis team beat Goshen College 9-0 yesterday to make its record 4-0. At No. 1 singles, Mary Ann Heckman defeated Susan Yoder 6-0, 6-1. At No.2 singles, Caroline Zero downed Bonnie Raber 6-1, 6-2. Christin Beck beat Katra Bashir Ali 6-2, 6-0 at third singles. In the fourth slot, Karen Brady defeated Sharon Mast 6-1, 6-4. At No. 5 singles, Jody Radler demolished Cyndie Mellinger 6-0, 6-3. Lastly, Carrie Casey beat Tamie Herr 6-2, 7-5. In doubles, the first team of Zero and Heather Temoffew heat Yoder and Raber 6-2,6-3. The No.2 doubles team of Beck and Radler downed Bashir Ali ad Brenda Stolzfus 10-4. And Casey and Heckman rounded out the scores witha 6-1, 6-1 victory over Herr and Mellinger. -The Observer 
I 

Wednesday, September 21, 1983-page 6 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team will host Grace College tonight at 6 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. -Tbe Observer. 
The SaintMary's soccerteamtakes on Goshen 
College tonight at 6 p.m. on Madaleva Field.-Tbe Observer. 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club will hold its weekly 
meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. at the boathouse. Topics will include lessons and this weekend's regatta at Kent State University. All mem­bers are requested to attend. New members are always welcome. ­
The Observer 

The Notre Dame Women's Golfteam will 
have a mandatory meeting tonigbt in Corby Hall. Anyone who can not attend, please call)ulie at ...,921. -The Observer. 
Today tennis vs. Rosary College 3:30p.m. Courtney Courts 
Tomorrow field hockey vs. U. of Chicago behind the ACC 

••••••••••--•••..clip & save•-•••••••••••••t 
. ·Advanced programming­the 
• • Cup

• power in a pocket size.. 
DELI
.

continuedfrom page 8 
1753 E. 12th st. Mishawaka, IN

Take on everyday problems in science, math or engineering The victory brought to an end the 
with the shirt-pocket-size HP-llC. light air dominanc.: in hch Australia I 
PARTY SUBS

• Dedicated scientific funct!ons for quick answers to 
II had led at 11 straight marks. In ad· 
computations

dition to leading all the way in a 3· 
3 Meats, 2 Cheeses 
• Easy-to-learn programming with up to 
minute, 14-sccond victory· on 
~ 
q tJ n.lf d I' , 
203 program lines 

Sunday, Australia II showed Liberty 
& Choice of Toppings J

l \1 H d II ll h , 
.. • Handy program editing tools 
its stern at all five roundings Satur· 
3 feet serves 20-25 ... $30.00 
l ---• Continuous Memory saves your 
4'•n
day hut was denied a victory when 
the time limit expired with Bertrand 
programs and data 

4 feet serves 25-30...$37.50 
in control by almost six minutes. 
HP-llC Slim-line Programmable 
5 feet serves 30-35...$45.00 
Scientific .......... . 
6 feet serves 35-40 ... $50.00 
The loss was the first in which the Australians failed to experience equipment problems. They lost the 
ALSO:MEATTRAYS,CHEESETRAYS
Get a 10% discount when you present your 
first race hy I :I 0 and the ~econd hy 
student I.D. Other HP calculators available. 
&SALADS

l::B. 
I ..I.
This time, it was all Conner, whose ability to find wind shifts was a major factor in Liberty's previous 
255-7797 I 
I

victories. 
Georgetown Center 
I I

52303 Emmons Road 277-4972 
..

Or(ter Party Subs Two Days in Advance I

The United States, making its 25th : defense of the Cup, owns an li1· 11 
Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 I I 
record in the competition named for 
the schooner America, which 
Jeff Etoll, owner, N D '78 I 
I

deteated a fleet of British boats 
I•• 1 I 
around the Isle of Wight in 1851. 
!.••••••-••--•-clip & save -·······•-•••••" 
Fhe Observer LaFortune ofice accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per

Classifieds seven characters, per day. 
NOTICES 
Typ1ng. ALL KINDS. 277-8534 after 5·30 M-F. All day wknds. 
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082. 
class 
ACCENT Your Underslandong 
PIANO OR FRENCH HORN LESSONS? UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MUSIC GRADUATE. TWO YEARS TEACHING EXPERIENCE WITH AGES 6 TO 50. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 287­0757. 
DRUMMEASIIIII. Established rock and roll band is seat rchtng a seriOus versatile percussiOniSt. Contact·Dan Meakon 277­3306 or J1m 283-8801 
LOST/FOUND 

LOST-NO ring Wllh 1nrt1als P R M. Dark purple Slone se11n gold. Call Paul at 239· 5313. or al 277·4851. $40 reward, no queshons asked. 
LOST· Keys on dtgdal walch chain. II found, call Sheila at 284-5433. Lost in area of Flanner-Grace noght of Sal.. Sept. 
3. 
FOUND One Chem1s1ry 115L Lab Card 
•n Huddle. Call John at17471o claim. 
FOUND· TAN NYLON CLIP-ON CASE W/2 PIPES & AN EMPTY 35mm FILM BOX IN PARKING LOST ACROSS FROM LIBRARY. PICK UP AT LOST & FOUND IN LIBRARY. 
FOUND BOOK BACKPACK. CALL 1071 EVENINGS AND IDENTIFY. 
lound ··set of keya on a gold NO keycha1n In 103 business adminoslrallon al 1·00 Mon. call Belh al7947 
REWRITE LOST THOMAS HOBBE'S LEVIATHAN & RICHARD TAYLOR'S METAPHYSICS. PROBABLY IN O'SHAG. CALL THERESE AT 8050 
LOST· Ze1ss Icon camera. in a brown cas1ng. Very used and old looking Has great senllmenlal value. Call M1m1 (616) 699-7272 
LOST· Keys on a Wimbledon key ring in lhe NAZZ or near LaFortune on Salurday n1ght. Please call Karen at 6293 if found. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO NO 2773604 
WANTED 
HELPIII NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL PAY $$$.CALL BRENDAN 7791 
Any NO/SMC sludent 1nleresled '"shoot­ing pool or start1ng a club. call284-5341. 
NEED RIDE TO MUNCIE.IN ON SEPT.23 WILL SHARE USUAL CALL Xt474 ASK FOR GARY 
nders needed, U of !(Champaign) Leave 9/23 Relurn 9/25 Call Mike 277-4463 af­ler 7 
...................................................... 
ATTENTION Cow massagers wanled in Shanan. If onlerested, call Linda-!1523. 
FOR SALE 
Underwood/Olivetti lypewriler. 1976 bul has only 2 years use,$80.00 277-2543 
FOR SALE 1 REFRIG EXCELLANT CONDITION. SAVE S AND BUY ONE FOR FOUR YEARS. 234·0302. 
Couch, chair, T.V., lor sale, CHEAPI272­3605. 
RIDES 
. . . . ... . . .... . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . ... . . . . . . Ride needed to NW suburbs of Chicago CPalallne or vicinily) 9·23 relurn 9/25. will share usual. If you can help, call Mary at 284-4286 
I NEED A RIDE TO INDIANA U. SEPT. 23·25 WILL COMPENSATE GENEROUSLY. CALL PAUL 6802. 
HELP! I need a nde to Ch1cago Friday 9/23. Please call Tom al1738. 
Need ride to northern Oh10 near Turnpike Exil 7 on Sepl. 30. No return trip needed. Call AI al3889. 
RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO NORTHWEST SUBURBS. CAN LEAVE AFTER 11 A.M. 9/23 AND RETURN 9/25 CALL2785. 
I NEED A RIDE TO PITTSBURGH SEPT. 23RD. CALL LINDA MORAY 5026 
TICKETS 
TICKETS NEEDED FOR USC-MUST HAVE---CALL CHRIS AT 234· 7279 
Desperately need Penn Slate game lick­ets. Call Brian al8795. 
NEED 2 USC GAS CALL BRIAN 6981 
HELP! NEED USC TIX STUDENT OR 
G.A. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277-4309 
NEED USC TIX. PLEASE CALL 8584. 
I NEED SO. CAROLINA TIX. CALL MAUREEN AT 8024 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2845084 
Need 10 G.A.'s lo the U.S. C. game. Will pay any amounlfort1ckets. They need not be logelher. Please call Dan at 1779. 
Willing to Jrade 5 I FIVE) PITT tickets for ONLY 4 I FOUR) USC tickets. Call 1723 Ask forKev. 
USC·ND tix wanted. Paying most (312) 246-4650. 
NEED 3 USC TICKETS PLEASE CALL RICARDO 277-0583 
MUST HAVE USC TIX··MONEY NO OBJECT--NEED UP TO SIX GAS. CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME. 
NEED USC GA'S NOW--CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 
NEED USC TIX FOR A GOOD CAUSE. CALL TOMAT1748. 
Rich '83 NO grad needs 2 USC tickets·· sludenl or GA. II you can help. call Dave at 1615. 
HELP 

A RICH friend Is in desperate need oftwo PITTSBURGH GA's. Please help an old friend out of a jam by calling Sarl at 277­1326. You will be richly rewarded. 
NEED 4 or 5 GAS FOR ANY GAME COULD MEAN EMPLOYMENT. CALL STEVE AT 232·0550. 
PERSONALS 
IF YOU HAVE OR HAVE NOT REGIS.. TERED FOR THE DRAFT, HAVE OUES.. noNS ABOUT CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECnON, DEFERMENTS, EXEMP· TIONS, THE CHURCH'S POSmON ON BEARING ARMS. .. CONTACT MAR· GARET GARVEY, CAMPUS MINISTRY, BADIN HALL (2311-5242) FOR DRAFT AND MILITARY COUNSELUNG. 
Any type of FILM for only$.50. Call1312 lor more information. 
We all live under the same sKy. but we don't see the same horizons. Get a clear view on your firs! fabulous year al SMC in Regina Hall. Vole for MICHELLE COLEMAN and LAURA TOPPIN for Presidenl and Vice-President 
Seductress, Only three years lo go ... A DeadMan 
NEED 2.3 OR 4 TICKETS FOR USC OR PITT GAME. I AM DESPERATE AND WILLING TO PAY. WE'RE TALKING BIG BUCKSICALLMOAT 1311. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY CINDY! I HOPE YOU CAN BREAK AWAY FROM THE BOOKS LONG ENOUGH TO ENJOY IT. LOVE ALWAYS, GEORGE. 
HEAR YEI HEAR YEI The N.D. Shakespeare Club will hold an orginiz a11ona1 mee11ng on Wed. 9/21 aJ8·00 p.m. in 331 O'Shag. Refresh menls will be served. 
3 YEAASIII3 YEAAS1113 YEAASIII 
THE FIRST GENERAL MEETING FOR 
F.L.O.C. (FARM LABOR ORGANIZING COMMITTEE) WILL BE HELD THIS THURS.. SEPT. 22 AT 700 PM IN THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. ALL ARE WARMLY WELCOME. 
ACCENT Your Interests 
LADIES OF COLUMBUS meellng Wed­nesday night at 7·30pm atlhe K ofC build· lng 
Desperale 1sn't the word. 1 NEED. really NEED a lickello lhe PITT game. I'm not particular. I'll take a studenl or GA. Please, call1311 and oHer lo sell me your 
licket. Will pay big bucks. 
HANDBALL PLAYERS· Grad studenl looking for some games. Will play anytime/anyday. Call Mike at 291-4998 in evenings. 
JUNIORS JUNIORS·JUNIOA CLASS RIVERBOAT CRUISE AND DINNER SAT 24 TICKETS AVAILABLE THIS WED THU & FAI FROM 12·()()-1·30 IN LA FORTUNE 5$ PEA PERSON 
HEY ALL YOU PETE SEEGER FANSII COME TO F.L.O.C.'S FIRST MEETING THIS THURS .. SEPT. 22 AT 7·00 PM IN THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­CERNS TO FIND OUT ABOUT PETE'S BENEFIT CONCERT FOR F.L.O.C. 
TRACY THOMAN AND MARY ROE FOR PRES. AND VP OF REGINA 
GEARY FAUST -ll's beg1nnong 10 look a lol loke Chnslmas! S1gned. Terry Brennan 
FREE SEX ONE FREE USC TICKET WITH EACH VISIT. CHECK BLUE LIGHT SPECIALS--PHYSICALLY CONTACT K­MART OR FR. JOHN ph.1806 
TO THE GUY WHO STOLE A PONY KEG FROM MY TAILGATER 4 DAYS AGO. YOU ARE NOT A WILD PARTY ANIMAL. YOU ARE A THEIF. WHAT YOU DID WAS JUST PLAIN UN­COOL.CALL ME 1226. 
No mailer how you Howland moan, ME seems like you have a screw Lucey. 
RON(ALOO) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY (Whal day is il anyway?) Well you've finished a year of college and look how much you've grown. !Though your feel sllll haven'!) You've read Wtnnte-the-Pooh, You've had ex­penance 1n pelly !hell, you've expen­menled ex1ens1vely 1n lhe eHeCis of beer on homework, and you've written your f~rst comedy Ieven if the Mr. Campus judges d1dn'l appreciale it-But then aga1n maybe 11 was Karl's execulion that was al faull) That's preny good lor an engo-nerd. Those folks back in York must be mighly proud oC you. You've even invenled your own dance. Surely it Will only be a short 11me before the whole country is doing "The Ron".' Jus! th1nk of all the prospects of things you can do lh1s year. Perhaps you'll doscover somelhmg elselo do wh1le hstenong 10 Bolero; Perhaps you"ll f1nd somethong olher than pennies hidden around your room; hopefully you'll realize lhe fact !hal all real men are in Arts & 
Parties. Have a Super Day, Ron ...... The Whole Gang 
NEED RIDERS TO SAINT LOUIS LEAVING 29TH. CALL LAUREN 277­4428 


']I['4(Jt~C3L~--------------------------------------·VV•e•d•n•e•s•d•a•y•,S•e•p•t•e•m•b•e•r•2•1•,•1•9•8•3----p-ag•e--7 
Berke Breathed 
John Gibbs 
MARSON GRAPHICS 
ORIGINAL ART PRINTS 
EXHIBITION AND SALE LAFORTUNE CENTER--··wED 
-~ 
Sept. '21 ,(~­11 am-7pm 
Bloom County 



Fate 
I THINK THEY fHOULD ALSO HAVE II ~WOMEN OF NDT« DN1E "CN..£~(. 


ACROSS 32 Circle 1 Noisy section Insect 34 Gennan 7 Thread article holders 35 Exalted
The Dally Crossword 
13 Doting 38 Send to 15 Cotton Coventry fabric 40 Ending to 16 Arranged Chin or In groups Malt 17 Overdue 41 -·Magnon 
debts 42 Wine 18 Tennis star beverage 20 Part of a 43 Relative 
famous ofatm 
signature 44 Hold-up 21 Duct 47 Peopleof 22 Divided note 26 Flatfish 48 Mineoor 28 Uraeus Maglie 31 Circus 50 Nobel physi· 
performer cist 
Tuesdays' so1ut10n 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 9/21/83 All Rights Reserved 

Campus 
•12:
15 p.m. -lecture, "Outlook for Financial Markets," Dr. Roy Moore, 121 Hayes Healy 

•12:15 
p.m -Workshop, "Productive and Un­productive Investment and the Diversion of Capi­tal," James Rakowski, Library Lounge 

•
3 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduction to SAS , 115 Computing Center 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Women vs. Rosary, Courtney Courts 

•4 
p.m. -lecture, "Outlook for Financial Markets and the Role of the Business Economist in the Banking Inustry," Dr. Roy More, 122 Hayes Healy 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Seminar, "Alkaloids from Alangium lamarckii of Biogenetic Impor­tance," Dr. Satyesh Pakrashi, 123 NSH 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, of students interested in the Ireland Study, Program, Carroll Hall, SMC 

•6:30 
p.m. -College Republicans General Meeting, 204 O'Shaughnessy 

•7 
p.m. -Volleyball, NO Women vs. Lake Michi­gan College, ACC 

•7 
p.m. -Social Concerns Film Series, "Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman," Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -American-lebanese Meeting, NAZZ 

•8 
p.m. -lecture, "Perception ofAnamoly: Key to the Bias of Classifiction Systems," Prof Mary Douglas, Library Auditorium 

•9:30 
p.m. -Meeting and Slide Presentation, Notre Dame-St. Mary's Right to Life, LaFortune Little Theatre 


TV Tonight 
7p.m.  16  Real People  
22  Archie Bunker's Place  
28  The Fall Guy  
34  American journey  
7:30p.m.  22  Gloria  
8p.m.  16  Facts of Ufe  
22  Wednesday Night Movie  
28  Two Marriages  
9p  .m.  16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Dynasty  
10p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  

Far Side 

''So, Foster! That's how you wont it, huh? ... Then toke THIS!" 




Tennis star 59 Poemby Walter 
Scott 60 Peniten­
tiaries 61 Hex 62 Leak 
stopper 63 Do a floor job 64 Plough soles 
DOWN 1 Singer 
Johnny 2 Notion 3 "The-Is 
Green" 4 Kin of a 
scena 5 Opposite 6 Conductor 
Dorati 
7 Tennis' Pam and family 
8 Outer garment 
9 Butterines 10 Scandina· vian name 
11 Calabrian cash 12 Call-up org. 14 Kelly and Autry 15-Tech 

I• 
19-volente 22 Bewildered 23 Hiatus 24 "Forever-" 25 Kinsman: 
abbr. 27 Medieval 
lyric poem 28 Motto 29 Organize 30 Iron 33 Party· 
loving 36 Tennis star 37 Long time 39 Marvin or 
Remick 45 Timetable abbr. 46 Large umbrellas 
48 Summer capital of India once 
49 Strange 51 Tiresome 
ones 52 Yielded 53 Writer Leon 54 Vane 
letters 55 Mallorca, 
for one 56 Burden 57 -of Cleves 58 Atlantic 
crossers 59 Matelot's milieu 
Sports 
Wednesday, September 21, 1983-page 8 

Ohsuv~r Photo/Pete Laches 

john Paxson, seen here in his senior campaign picked him in lastjune's NBA draft. See Frank La at Notre Dame, is In the midst of a contract Grotta's story below for more details on Paxon's dispute with the San Antonio ,\purs, the team that situation. 
Paxson continues to work out while contract talks stalemate 
By FRANK LA GROITA 
Sports Writer 
Editor's note: Frank La (;rolla is a former Ohserver sports writer. He was xraduatedfrom Notre Dame in 1980 and xained his postxraduate dexree In 1981. 
DAYTON, Ohio -The game has 
always heen so easy. 
Get the hall, shoot, and score. Or 
go to the hoop, and score. Or get 
fouled, and score. It's always seemed 
like John Paxson could do anything 
with the hasketball. 
Until now. 

All ofa sudden the game that once 
flowed so smoothly from baseline to 
baseline is stuck between the offices 
of Larry Fleischer, Paxson's agent, 
and Angelo Drossos, the owner of 
the San Antonio Spurs, the National 
8askethall Association team that 
made Paxson its first-round draft 
pick last June. 
Drossos is offerihg Paxson a con· 
tract the player calls 
"unacceptahle." Paxson is asking for 
a contract the owner calls 
"unacceptable." 
So, with his future on hold, Paxson 
remains at home In Kettering, Ohio. 
His routine hasn't changed much 
from his days at nearby Alter High 
School, or at Notre Dame. 
"My whole day is geared around working out," he said over dinner at a restaurant in Kettering last week. "I get up in the morning, I go to work out at a place that has a Nautilis, play basketball in the afternoon with the guys at lJD (the University of Dayton, where his father and older hrother, Jim, hoth had all-American careers) and I run at night." 
He Is visihly trimmer than he was a year ago, his last season at Notre Dame. 
"I just watch what I eat-I cut out the breads and sweets -and I dropped from about 190 to 180," he says. 
He runs -4, sometimes 5 miles each night -along the uphill, downhill streets in his neighbor­hood. 
"The hills don't bother me," he says with a laugh. "When you up one, you get to go down one." 
He likes to run hy himself, he al· ways did, without one of those fas­hionalbc Walkman radios with the styrofoam headsets that joggers like to jam in their ears. 
"I like to concentrate when I run, 
"he says. "I think.It's a good time to think." 
A lot of his thinking is about bas­
ketball, which he loves, and about 
the Spurs and Drossos, who he 
doesn't understand. Drossos is a man 
with a reputation for frugality when 
it comes to players' salaries; a man 
Paxson has never met. 
Sometimes he worries about his 
future and how frustrating it is that 
things aren't working out the way he 
always thought they would when he 
was just a kid on a court in a 
playground in Kettering, and the 
pros were just a dream to sheot for 
like the iron rims on the backboards. 
He's engaged now, to a girl he's known since high school. They're getting married next summer, and as funny as it may seem to people who think all pro athletes are indepen­dently wealthy, the hard fact is right nowJohn Paxson doesn't have a job. 
"I told her she doesn't get to keep it unless I sign," he jokes as his fian­cee, Carolyn Ziehler, displays her engagement ring. 
Perhaps the hardest thing for Pax­son to accept is that he simply has no 
Victory leads 3-1 
control over the situation. It's a strange feeling in his athletic world, where hard work and extra practice always could solve anything. 
"It's in my agent's hands now," Paxson says. "I don't even call him that much -maybe once every two weeks. I trust him (Fleischer also represents Paxson's brother who plays for the Portland Trailblazers). He'll call me if something comes up." 
Ifnothing comes up by September 29, the day the Spurs open training . camp (and Paxson's 23rd birthday) 
he says he won't report. 
"I have to do it," he says about staying away. "I won't like it but I'll have to do it. I just can't go for what they want to pay me." 
Although the financial details are kept quiet, Paxson's demands are by no means out of line in light of pro basketball's present salary scale. 
"I'm hoping, you know, that some­thing happens before training camp opens," he says. "I just want to play basketball. I just want all this to end. I can't imagine ever getting tired of playing basketball. 

US could clinch Cup 
NEWPORT, R.I. (AP) -Skipper Dennis Conner of defender Liberty outsailed Australia II in the challen­ger's light winds yesterday to put the United States within a single victory of retaining the America's Cup. 
It was a striking turnahout for the Americans, whose hold on sailing's most prized trophy had seemed in doubt Sunday after suffering the worst defeat by a U.S. boat since 1871. 
But Liherty obviously made some adjustments during Monday's lay day to overcome Australia II's pre­vious superiority in winds similar to yesterday's I0-I 5 knot breezes on Rhode Island Sound. 
The 43-second victory, which took just 3 hours, 29 minutes and I7 seconds, gave Liberty a 3-I lead in the best-of-seven series. The next race is scheduled for today. 
Conner, who trailed Aussie skip­per John Bertrand after the first windward leg in each of the first three races, led there this time and held a safe, steady lead the rest ofthe way. 
The final margin, the closest so far in this series, was just five seconds less than Liberty's biggest lead ofthe day and just eight seconds more than the smallest lead. 
After jumping to a 6-second lead at the start, Conner could not be coaxed into a tacking duel with the quick-turning Aussies. 
He built a 36-second lead in the first 4.5-mile weather leg, stretched it to 48 seconds in the first of two 3.I-mile crosswind reaches and held that margin through the second. 
The Aussies managed to gain just 
• two seconds in the next weather leg. They picked up another II in the 4.5-mile downwind run and began the final leg 35 seconds behind. 
Again, Conner could not be drawn into a close ticking duel where the Aussies' celebrated winged keel had let Bertrand pick up as much as a boat's length per turn in the first three races. He moved in a protective pattern aimed at blocking winds to the tailing boat. 
see CUP, page 6 

Hurricanes plan 
to blow Irish away 
~~rt~;~,:,reeby ~-. 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiriiisiih-'tiiieiiimiiisiiiiiiiiiiiil..ti•·. ~1~~ 
Hello again, everybody! While Irish fans have quickly stifled their talk of an undefeated season, last Saturday's loss to Michigan State is not as catastrophic as some people would make it appear. The Irish can still maintain hopes ofa major bowl bid, and possibly a national championship, but it can only come one step at a time. 
Last Two Years: Thrills and Spills ...Last year's Miami game featured all the dramatics associated with Notre Dame football. After an interception of a Blair Kiel pass with 2:58 remaining on the stadium clock and Miami owning a one-point lead, one Hurricane player remarked to Irish guard Tom Thayer that the game was over. Thayer replied This is Notre Dame. It's never over! 
Sure enough, the Irish defense forced a punt, and the offense took over on their own 30-yard-line with I :3 '7 left. An inspired student body lent support, as Kiel calmly drove the Irish into a field goal range. With II seconds remaining Mike Johnston came onto the field, and booted home a 32-yard field goal to give theIr t ish a 16-14 win. 
On the other hand, Faust and Notre Dame fans had their Thanksgiving weekend ruined two years ago by the Hurricanes in a nationally-televised 3 7-1 5 upset. In that one, the Irish looked like leftover Thanksgiving turkey, as Miami quarterbackJim Kelly carved up the Irish defense with two touchdown passes. No doubt about it, Faust and Co. would like to settle the score by knocking the stuffing out ofthe Hurricanes this weekend. 
Schellenberger Shines ...Fifth-year Hurricane coach Howard Schellenberger has done a tremendous joh, placing the Miami program into national prominence during his brief tenure. Miami has a 32-16 record under Schellenberger, and an amazing 20-2 ledger at the Orange Bowl in the last four years. Prior to Schellenber­ger's arrival, the Hurricanes had used a revolving door for coaches, changing the head man six times in eight years. Now, it seems Schel­lenberger has a tlrm grip on his job, and he has established some much-needed continuity within the program. 
Hurricane Heroes ...While Schellenberger has lost the aforementioned Jim Kelly to the NFI., Miami has plenty of talent on both sides of the line. On offense, freshman quarterback Bernie Kosar has led Miami to a 2-I start this fall. Kosar possesses a rifle arm, as he displayed with three TO passes against Purdue last Saturday. Sophomore flanker Stanley Shakespeare (no relation to the Bard of Avon) caught two ofthose scoring aerials, and is a threat to go deep. IfShakespeare is covered, Kosar will look for senior tight end Glenn Dennison, a big man with good speed. As in past years, the Hur­ricanes will put the ball in the air often, and that could spell trouble for the Irish. 
Six starters return on defense, including Sporting News pre­season All-Americans Jay Brophy and Ken Calhoun. Brophy mans op.e ofthe linebackerspots in the 5-2 defense, and led the Hurricanes with I32 tackles in I982. Calhoun stars in the rover position, where he came up with 59 stops last season. 
ForYour Fighting Irish ...Thre is no reason to expect the Irish to change their offensive game plan. Greg Bell and Allen Pinkett ran for IOO yards each last week, so the running game is in high gear. Look for the Irish to run at the right side ofthe Miami defense, where the Hurricanes are weakest. The Irish offense simply needs a better game out ofBlair Kiel than they got last week, and Kiel will probably ddiver on that request. 
While the Irish defense remains strong against the run, the defensive line needs to apply more ofa pass rush to give the folks in the secondary a fighting chance. Last week, Spartan quarterback Dave Yarema had enough time to visit the concession stand before throwing. The Irish need to remedy this situation, or it may be a long evening in Miami on Saturday night. 
Grab Bag .. .Irish assistant coach Carl Selmer returns to the Orange Bowl with revenge on his mind. He was the coach at Miami from I975 to 1976....CBS will televise the game in prime-time Saturday night. Miami promoters are billing this game as a Classic College Football Weekend, and have made extravagnt plans since the network chose to televise the game last spring ... Mike Shiner will t return to the starting quick tackle spot this week. His twisted knee injury has apparently healed ...This is the first of four con­secutive road games for the Irish who will not return to Notre Dame Stadium until October 22. 
Congratulations! ...Two Irish athletes entered their names into the record books last week. In field hockey, senior wing Clare Henry scored her 40th career goal to go atop the all-time Notre Dame scoring list. She surpasses Kathy Ray, who established the mark just last year. 
In women's tennis, senior Pam Fischette notched her 66th singles victory Saturday, defeating Cathy Walsh of DePauw, 6-I, 6-I to set the record for most singles victories by an Irish player. The previous record was 65 held by Carol Shukis since I98I. Setting records has become commonplace for Fischette. She now owns seven Notre Dame women's tennis records. 
Pick ofthe Week ...This week's pick is an easy one, indeed. It's not often that you see the Irish play a number-one ranked team, hut that will be the case Sunday afternopn when Rich Hunter's Irish soc­cer team ta.kies on top-ranked Indiana at Alumni Field at 2:00 p.m. Hunter has a crusade against Indiana, as a victory against the Hoosiers would show that the Irish belong among the best teams in the Midwest in soccer, and would go a long way towards an NCAA berth. 

