2Q 'W. 
uzu 

• • • Draftees-page 9 

VOL XVII, NO. 139 thl' indqwndent student newspaper serving notre Jame and saint mary's THURSDAY, APRIL 28, 1983 
Reagan urges support for Central America 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President operated video games," The presi· Reagan urged the nation and a dent said. skeptical Congress yesterday night 
"What the administration is askingtu embrace his Central America for on behalf of freedom in Central program on grounds that the United America is so small, so minimal ­States has a "vital interest, a moral considering what is at stake, " heduty and a solemn resonsibility" to added.

protect the region from Leftist revolution. Reagan said the Caribbean Basin 
In a rare address to a joint session region is "a magnet for adventurism" of Congress, Reagan said, "I say to primarily sponsored by the Soviet you that tonight there can be no Union and Cuba. "Ifthe Nazis during 
question, the national security of all World War II and the Soviets today the Americas is at stake in Central could recognize the Caribbean and America. Central America as vital to our inter­"If we cannot defend ourselves 
ests, should not we also?" he asked. there," said Reagan,"we cannot ex­pect to prevail elsewhere. Our Reagan noted the seizure in Brazil 
credibility would collapse, our al­of four Libyan cargo planes loaded 
liances would crumble, and the with arms enroute to Nicaragua, and safety ofthe homelan<!_would be put said "violence has been Nicaragua's in jepardy." most important export to the world. 
Reagan's nationally broadcast "It is the ultimate in hypocrisy for address was primarily an attempt to the unselected Nicaraguan govern­salvage a proposed n 10 million in ment to charge that we seek their U.S. aid for the beseiged regime in El overthrow when they are doingSalvador. Congress so far has balked everything they can to bring down over all but S30 million ofthat. 
the elected government of El Sal­But Reagan pressed Congress to vador." said Reagan. approve his full request for aid for all 
Disputing charges leveled inof Central America, totaling about Congress and elsewhere, Reagan

S600 million for 1984. "That is less than one-tenth of what Americans 
See REAGAN, page 4 

will spend this year on coin-

Population density increases in America 
WASHINGTON (AP) ing by 53 percent from 642.8 over Americans are getting closer to each three decades. other. It's not a question offienship. Overall the census counted It's a simple matter ofnumbers. 226,546,000 people in 1980, up 
The increase in population has in­from 203,302,000 a decade earlier creased population density by more and from 179,323,000 in 1960 and than half over the last 30 yeas. 151,326,000 in 1950. 
The 1980 Census found an While the population has shifted average of 64 Americans per square toward the Sunbelt in recent years, mile; up from 42.6 in 1950. the Northeast remains the most 
New Jersey is the most crowded densely populated region by a wide state; there are 986.2 people per margin. square mile. Alaska is the emptiest The Middle Atlantic states -only 0.7 people per square mile. aveaged 368.9 people per square 
Population density in the 49th mile in 1980, up from 300.1 in 1950. state has more than tripled since New England -the second most 1950 when it had 0.2--per square closely packed region -had 196.0 mile. The growth in NewJersey was people per square mile; up from close to the national average; climb-147.5. 

Air Force Cadet Arthur Huber accepts the Air Force Historical Foundation Award from Sister john Miriam jones, assistant provost, during the AirForce ROTC awards ceremony last night in the Library Auditorium. Huber was the only cadet in the nation to receive the honor. Other major award recipients include seniors Sheryl Barr and Kevin Betz; junior joseph Sirrianni; sophomore David Maloney; and freshman julie Schuessler, who was named cadet ofthe year. 

Career outlook glum for graduates 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE The College Placement Council prospective employers "from coast 
News Editor reported last week an even poorer to coast." But Willemin said, "it isn't 
picture nationally, with only half as just the quality of students or just 
Nearly 75 percent of the Notre many students as last year receiving the national enrollment we have. It's 
Dame chemical engineers will job offers. what happens to students when 
graduate this year unemployed. "It may be the toughest year since they're here. After all, this is Notre 
The top students with grade point World War II," said John Singleton, Dame, isn't it?" 
averages approaching 4.0 are rarely director of placement at Michigan With the unemployment rate at 
receiving more than one job offer, State University that conducted ana­10 percent, Willemin said, many 
and students with a modest GPA of tional survey of placement bureaus companies are finding "a pool of 
2.8, who used to receive three to last fall. The MSU report predicted qualified applicants without having 
four offers with starting salaries well -nearly accurately -a 1 7 percent to look to college campuses for 
above $20,000, are failing to get drop in the hiring of the 1.4 million tclent." 
second interviews. graduating students with bachelor's But Manpower, Inc., the nation's 
degrees, and a 12 percent decline largest temporary service frrm,The career news in most other for graduate students in master's reported last March that "employersfields is no better. Civil engineering, programs. are forecasting a sharply improvedliberal arts, and management are Electrical engineering and com­job situation during the comingsuffering while finance, accounting, puter science, however, are "riding three months " mechanical engineering and science a crest," Willemin said, and hiring "The most dramatic improvementare fairing only slightly better, more than ever. IBM, the nation's in job opportunities," said Man­according to statistics of Notre largest computer company whose power President MitchellDame's Placement office. 
profits increased 24 percent to near­Fromstein, " is expected in those 
"The outlook is slightly worse ly $1 billion last year, filled 33 inter­sectors which were hardest hit than last year (at Notre Dame)," said view schedules at Notre Dame this during the recession -construc­Placement Director Richard Wil­fall, far more than most companies. tion and manufacturing of durable lemin. Less than half of the students Notre Dame students, Willemin goods." Manpower said 23 percent who have reported in have a definite said, traditionally do better than the 
See JOBS, page 3

job offer, he said. national average, drawing 

The Westward schooner awaits action from seafaring students. 

Student completes sea program 
ByVIC SCIULLI 
Assistant News Editor 
Learning about the sea can be adventurous and challenging, according to a Notre Dame student who recently completed a journey to exotic isles as part ofa University program. 
Sean Kerwin, a junior chemistry major, recently completed a 6-week study at sea as part of the Sea Semester program. Sea Semester is a college level course designed to teach undergraduates about the sea 
The program is divided into two components: six weeks of classwork in Woods Hole (located at the port to Martha's Vineyard), followed by six-weeks aboard the schooner Westward where students had the opportunity to work on research projects. 
At Woods Hole, students completed three courses: Introduction to Oceanography a course based in biology, geology, chemistry and physics, with special emphasis on the geographic areas to be visited during the cruise; Introduction to Nautical Science which taught concepts of navigation, naval architecture, ship construction, marine engineering systems and ship management; and Introduction to Maritime Studies, a multi-disciplinal-y study of maritime heritage, which examined how the oceans have influenced history, politics, literature and economics. 
Classes ran from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. five days a week, with classes held only half-days on Saturday~. Ker­win said that his courses weren't as demanding as many ofthe chemistry courses he has taken over the years. 
Kerwin became interested in the program when he saw a sign outside ofthe Dean's office. At the time, he was uncertain of his future and could not decide between a career in pure chemistry or one in applied chemistry. 
At lunch that day, Kerwin happened to sit down next to a student who had just come back from Sea Semester. He became even more interested after 
See SEA, page 5 
-u: 
Thursday, April 28, 1983 -page 2



News Brief§ 

~~==~====~================================ 
by The Observer and The Associated Press 
Saint Mary's Department of Music will sponsor its annual Spring Choral Concert at 8 tonight in the Little Theatre on campus. The Collegiate Choir, Women's Choir and Chamber Singers will perform during the concert, organized and directed by Raymond Sprague, assistant professor of music at Saint Mary's. The concert will feature a variety of music, including folk songs, gospel tunes, hymns, popular pieces and classics. The concert is free and open to the public. -The Obseroer 
Michael K. Sain will speak on "Feedback: A Modern Parable" at 4 p.m. today in the Center for Continuing Education auditorium during his inauguration as the Frank M. Freimann Profes­sor of Electrical Engineering at Notre Dame. Sain joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1965 as an assistant professor. He was promoted to associate professor in 1968 and to full professor in 1972. He received bachelor's and master's degrees in electrical engineering from St. Louis University and his Ph.D. from the University ofIllinois­Urbana. Prior to coming to Notre Dame, Sain had been an engineer with the Sandia Corp. of Albuquerque, N.M. and Vickers Electric of St. Louis. He has served as a visitig scientist at the University of Toronto, Canada, a consultant to the Energy Controls Division ofthe 
Bendix Corp. and has authored or coauthored more than I00 publications. -The Obseroer 
Thomas F. Klimek, president of Computer Crea· tions, Inc. of South Bend, will give an illustrated presentation, "Computer Graphics: The State of the Art," at 8 p.m. today in the faculty dining room of Notre Dame's South Dining Hall. Klimek's presentation is part of the annual banquet and awards dinner of the Notre Dame Chapter ofSigma XI, the national science and research honorary society. Induction of 39 young scientists and engineers into the society and announcement ofthe 1983 Award for Outstand· ing Research recipient will be prior to Klimek's talk, which is open to the public. -The Obseroer 
Secretary ofState George Shultz embarked on his first attempt at shuttle diplomacy yesterday and heard Israel's explanation of why it is not ready to withdraw all its troops from Lebanon. Prime Minister Menachem Begin told him Israel's security interests must be protected in any agreement on the withdrawal of foreign troops from southern Lebanon, Begin's spokesman Uri Porat told reporters. Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir told Shultz the Lebanese army can't do the job, Israel wants no foreign protectors on its borders, and that it demands some Israeli troops remain in southern Lebanon on joint patrol with Lebanese soldiers, a senior Israeli official said. The official said Shamir also discussed Israel's insistence on putting security in southern Lebanon in the hands of Maj. Saad Haddad, who quit the Lebanese army and commands a militia in southern Lebanon that was armed and trained by Israel. ­
AP 
u.s. Embassy staffers in Beirut, Lebanon, have turned their homes into offices and are busy stripping the bombed out ruins of the embassy of all salvageable equipment. Still shaken and grieving from last week's bombing, the American and Lebanese staff who survived the bombing are already at work in temporary headquarters. The press of troop withdrawal negotiations and the visit of Secretary of State George P. Shultz have left little time for anything else. "Nobody is pretending this is easy," said embassy press officer John Reid who was injured in the blast that killed at least 17 Americans and an estimated 32 Lebanese staff. "Three ofmy employr.es were killed; some others were hurt. It's had a terrible effect on everyone else. -AP 
A 6-year-old boywho was waiting for a liver transplant -ied yesterday in Memphis, Tenn., as University of Tennessee sur­geons gave a new liver to a 17-year old Memphis youth. "Time just ran out," on Jerry Harrison, Jr., said Gary Hall, the organ transplant coordinator at the UT Centerfor the Health Sciences. "We just didn't have a donor." But for the parents of Randy Braxton, the news was good. "I'm just overjoyed," said Mrs. Leroy Braxton as surgeonscom­pleted the tedious transplant procedure at UT's William F. Bowld Hospital. "All the news Igot is good news. Everyone has been so nice ... I'm thankful to God for all the support we've had." -AP 
The Justice Departmentsued a Maryland preservation group yesterday alleging it had misused a n million endowment from the late philanthropist Eli Lilly in its management of the Hampton National Historic Site in Tomson, Md. Attorney General William French Smith said the civil suit was filed in U.S. District Court in Baltimore against the societyfor the Preservation of Maryland Antiquities, which operates the site north of Baltimore. The Hampton mansion was purchased by the federal government in 
1948 and designated as an historic site on June 22, 1948, by the secretry of the interior "to preserve, enhance and exhibit with its allied formal gardens and outbuildings the most monumental Geor­gian mansion of late 18th century America" ·-AP 
I t won't be as warm today as it was these last few days. There is a 50 percent chance ofthundershowers. The high will be in the upper 60's. Continued mild tonight with a 40 percent chance of showers. The low will be in the low 50's. Cloudy Friday with a slight chance ofthundershowers and a high in the upper 60's. 
-AP 

Peoria or Beyond? 

The festive spring atmosphere that characterizes this time of year may strike one as ironic in terms of the snowballing academic load. This time ofyear -hectic for all -marks an especially active period for one group: the graduating seniors. In addition to the missed classes, late papers and all-nighters, the seniors have the additional task offacing up to the cold mirror ofreality. 
For some seniors this means a few last-minute scrambles for post-graduation jobs along with the addi­tional worry of whether they will be graduating. For others this time is seen as a last chance to be as irrespon­sible as possible before accepting the challenges of the real world. 
Graduation should be more than a frantic fight with academic requirements. Otherwise, that will be the ex­tent of college memories afterwards. Graduation also means taking time to realize the culmination of one's four (or more) years here. 
On the other hand, graduation does not mean a free ticket to irrespon­sibility. It is not a temporary reprieve from all commit­ments. Maturity is the wil· lingness to take responsibility for your ac­tions but it is not synonymous with gradua· tion. Maturity should occur betore the ceremony ­commen,cement is the climax of the maturing process. 
Ahappy medium between the two extremes is pos­sible. 
All seniors must take some time out in the next few weeks to examine them-· selves and their values. The word "commenceiTient" in· dicates a beginning -the start ofsomething new. Every cornerstone, however, is based on a foundation. Every beginning is based on what comes before it. 
In many ways life is comparable to a cross-country journey: You start out on the east coast and slowly make your way across the countryside. Of course, you're bound to run into a few Newarks and Toledos along the way, but you can only accept these and continue your trek. As you travel, you pick up various friends -pas­sengers -that make the trip more pleasant. Ultimately, however, you reach a major interchange -such as Chicago -and lind you must change vehicles and go on alone. 
In less than three weeks some seniors, perhaps for the first time in their lives, will have to deal with the con­cept ofexistential aloneness. Up until now, there have always been others -parents and schoolmates -to lean on. Coming to college was really a dress rehearsal for the ultimate step into the real world. 

However, in coming to college a student was sur­rounded by others in the very same situation. Entering the working world involves competing with others who have already made the transistion. Finally the senior will have to learn whether he is capable ofstand­ing on his own two feet. 
This is the real challenge of graduation: testing your own independence. Of course, some students will never successfully make the transistion. In many ways 
our education system en­courages this. The student has relied on Mom and Dad and various institutions for so long, that by age 21, he can't accept anything else. 
If a senior is willing to ac­cept the responsibilities that come with independence, the post-graduation period could be the happiest of his life. With the proper con· fidence and sense of self­worth, the graduate's potential is unlimited. Faith in oneself and a goal are tJ:!e essential elements in each perspective climb to the 
top. Making this trip alone is 
important. Seniors should not be too quick to take on the additional respon· sibilities ofspouse and family. This will probably be the only time in their lives that they will have only them· selves to worry about. The time should be viewed as an opportunity to learn responsibility for oneself before making any life-long commitments. 
The diploma handed out at commencement should signify much more than the sacrifice of a sheep. One's college education should be used as a stepping stone to self-awareness. 
Only with the proper experience upon reaching Chicago will the graduate be able to make a responsible choice between pulling off the highway l!t Peoria or continuing <;m life's journey. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe editorial board or staff. 
Our LastVoyage Aboard the S.S. Observer 
Design Editor ....................... Ken Cerabona "Your Captain" Design Editor .............................. Tim Neely "Your Cruise Director" Layout Staff................................Joe Zellner "Your Token Gilligan" 
Typesetter···'··························· Bruce Oakley "Your Engineer" No-Longer Typesetter ................... Al Novas ""Your Resident RudeParlier" News Edltor ......................... Jeff Harrington "Your Broiled Lobster at Sea" Copy Editor ............................. Beth Hackett "Your Ug~v Person on Cruise Sports Copy Editor ..................... Tim Neely "Now, Your Gopher'" Editorials Layout..................... Tari Brown "Not Your Bartender, Issac" Features Layout ........................ Mary Healy "Your Skipper" Sports Layout ......................... Mike Sullivan "Your Shuffleboard Swabber" ND Day Editor .......................... Anne Bailey "Your Water Bailer" SMC Day Editor ........................ Tari Brown "But Is Your Bouncer" Ad Design ............................. Marilyn larkin "For Crew Only" Typist................................ Mary Beth Porter "Your First Lady ofthe Line" Photographer ....................... Hamil Cupero 
'•Your Crow's Nest Man" 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) is publtshed Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays, except dunng exam and vacatton penods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary·s Col­lege. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writtng The Observer. P 0. Box Q, 
Notre Dame, lndtana 46556. 
The Observer ts a member of The 
Associated Press. All reproductton 
nghts are reserved. 
Second class postage patd at Notre 
Dame, lndtana 46556 


The Observer Thursday, April 28, 1983 -page 3 
• • . Jobs 

continuedfrom page 1 
of Midwestern employers are plan­
ning to increase hiring levels in May. 
The Manpower study, however, 

did not explicitly consider college 
student employment. 
The drop in job offers to college graduates, the College Placement Council said in its report, does not necessarily mean a drop in the num­ber of jobs available. "In a more competitive year," a CPC spokes­man said, "employees frequently had to make numerouS-job offers to fill a position, especially in engineer­ing. But due to the tight job market, many students are accepting jobs earlier, often after only a few offers, and employeers don't have to make as many offers." 
Here's the outlook: • Engineering: 

Except for electrical engineering, 
the number of job offers is down 
sharply -16 percent in chemical 
engineering, according to the MSU 
study. Civil engineering is suffering 
because high interest rates have 
drastically decreased capital expan­
sion, Willemin said. Recent cutbacks 
in government funds by the Reagan 
administration have also hurt in­dustrial projects. 
• Business: Finance majors are find­ing relatively little change in the job 
___..._____ 
Parmerlee Detective Agency 
530 1/2 Carroll St., Apt. B South Bend, IN 46601 
(219) 288-6621 
market, as some major banks includ­ing Citibank and Bank of America in California actually increased hiring. Accounting majors at Notre Dame, usually strong in the job market, are receiving slightly fewer job offers than last year. Marketing majors will find a small decrease, the MSU study 
predicted. 
• Science: Computer science stu­dents are receiving several job offers and the surge will continue for the next I 0 years. Physics and math (except students who also have computer backgrounds) are ex­periencing modest to steep decreases. But Willemin said health care companies have begun to hire more and more Notre Dame biology and microbiology students. 

• Arts and Letters: "A kid is going to have a tough time selling an employer on'a philosophy degree," said Steven Salway, director ofplace­ment at New Mexico State Univer­sity in Las Cruces. An economics degree is looking the best this year, but, Willemin said, "liberal arts stu­dents_ traditionally face an uphill battle to get involved in business." Students with concentrations in computer applications, however, are finding as much success as the electrical engineers. 
"I would hope that we have 50 percent placements by May 1," said Willemin. "By September 1, most students will have some type of job, but not necessarily in their career fields." 


The Obs~rvcr/Hamll CuperO 

Hungry students experiment with the finer arts of hotdog cooking during the Senior/junior. Picnic yesterday afternoon at Saint Mary's Madeleva Green. 
Chance to Dance with the KltiETICS Chautauqua 


Fri. flpril29 9:30-1:30 fldm. $1 
Sponsored by the H.D. Student Union 
WANT TO FLY? 

If your goal is to become a professional, you owe it to yourself not to overlook any opportunities that will help you reach that goal. THE NAVY PILOT (20/20 vision is required) is the finest in the world, flying a variety of soph­isticated high performance aircraft. THE NAVAL FLIGHT OFFICER (vision correctible to 20/20) is the quarter­back of the Naval Aviation Team with wide-ranging expertise from state-of-the-art Data Processing to Master Tacti­cian. If you are a college graduate, or are within three years of graduation, wanting to get your feet off the ground and earn over $27,000 a year within four years and attend the world's most prestigious flight school, contact or mail your resume to: 
575 N. Pennsylvania St. Office 646, Indianapolis, IN 46204






NAVAL AVIATION 
1-800-382-3782 
The Observer Thursday, April 28, 1983 -page 4 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE. 


How many corporations would be willing to pay you over$1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company after graduation? Under a special ~avy program we're doing just that. It's called the l'\ uclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. And under it, you'll not only get great pay during your junior and senior years. but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other ·employer. 
If you arc a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical sciences. find out more today. And let your career pay off \\'bile still in college. 
For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: 
1·800·382·3782 

OLD MILWAUKEE 
5
99 

CASE 1621 SO BEND AVE 
• . PRICES GOOD THRU SAT., APRIL 30, 1983 
... Reagan 


-LIQUOR 
KINGS CELLAR VODKA OR GIN
7•• 
419 319 

1.75 LITER LITER 750 ML 
GORDON'S VODKA  311  
750 ML  
GORDON'S GIN  _,.,  411  
750 ML  
KESSLER'S  911  
1.75 LITER  
POPOVVODKA  711  
1.75 LITER  
BEAM BOURBON  411  
750 ML  
DEWARS SCOTCH 750 ML  811  

LORD CALVERT 
1 011 
1.75 LITER 

JACK DANIELS 711 
750ML 

BEAM BLEND 311 
750ML 

CASTILLO RUM 311 
750 ML 

KEG SPECIALS OLD MILWAUKEE . 27.49 BUDWEISER ••••• 31.99
I 
PABST. . . . . . . . 27.99 MICHELOB ....... 36.99 
continuedfrom page I 
said the United States was not seeking the overthrow of the leftist government ofNicaragua. "Our only interest is to insure that it does not infect its neighbors throught the ex­port of subversion and violence." the president said. 
In a warmup for the prime-time speech, Reagan told a newspaper publishers' meeting in New York that Americans are not accustomed "to worrying about possibly a military threat in our own hemi­sphere. .We've almost taken for granted the friendly, independent neighbors that we have." 
But "we can no longer ignore that there's a fire started and burning in our front yard," he told the newspaper executives. 
His speech in the House chamber marked the first time Reagan addressed lawmakers on a foreign policy issue. Usually presidents address Congress only to give the annual State ofthe Union report. 
The speech came one day after the House Appropriations subcom­mittee chopped in half his request to shift military aid worth S60 million to El Salvador from amounts all­ocated for other countries. At that, the panel approved the lesser amount by just a one-vote margin. 


fficGann fot ffiayot ote may 3td "Committed to uphold student rights •••" 
consultants to 

Multinational firms 
seek qualified individuals with language and area expertise on foreign markets. Expertise should be based on a stay of at least 2 years. Part-time and full-time assignments available. Fee Paid. 
send resume or request for application form to: 
Swenson, Crawford & Paine 
Dept: B-33 
P. 0. Box A3629 

Chicago, Illinois 60690 



DAILY BEER SPECIALS 
QUART SPECIALS MILLER ........... 9.29 BUDWEISER ....... 9.39 
-

THURSDAY ONLY 4-28-83 
STROH'S 


69!E 
LIMIT 1PER PERSON FRIDAY ONLY 
SATURDAY ONLY 

4-29-83 
4-30-83 

HEINEKEN 
MICHELOB(r
899 
r. ~I 
~~ICHELCA!.__" 
"'1-.r


14!~ 
CASE 
-=-­

LIMIT 1PER PERSON 
GRADUATES, ORDER YOUR GRADUATION CHAMPAGNES, NOW! 
The Observer Thursday, April28, 1983-page 5 
... Sea 

continuedfrom page 1 
their: discussion and decided to app­ly. 
Kerwin said that the students in the program were fro.m. a number of schools across the country. Not all the students were science majors. One English major from Dartmouth, he said, had a more difficult time get­ting through the courses but com­pleted them nevertheless. 
Students taking the course earn a full semester's credit from Boston University. 
Woods Hole is the center for many scientific groups and in­dustries, including the National Geographic Survey and the National Oceanographic and Atmosphere As­sociation. Kerwin described Woods Hole as a "quaint town" where there were tremendous opportunities to meet people and do things. "There was too much to do in too little a time." 
After the five week course at Woods Hole, 26 students and resear­chers set sail from Miami on the Westward, a 120-ft steel-hull stays­hip schoner. Most of the students had little or no experience in sailing and Kewin said that there was some confusion at first about what to do. 
The cruise track included port stops in the Bahamas, Haiti, Roatan in the Honduras, and ended in Gal­veston Texas, During the cruise, stu­dents were able to examine many oceanographic and marine biologi­cal problems in near shore and 
•Jpen-ocean habitats. 
All students aboard the ship were involved in independent research projects. Kerwin's research project 
'... There was too much to do in too little time . ..., 
on calcium-carbonate unsaturation involving potentiometric titrations utilized many of the principles learned in his chemistry classes over the years. Because of his great knowledge of chemistry, Kerwin was in charge of the many chemical assays take., during the cruise. Ker­win is currently an undergraduate researcher in chemistry and is working on the synthesis of beta­lactans. 
Kerwin described the semester as "very disciplined and structured." One of the goals of the semester, he said, was to matce the students reel akin to the sea. No tape decks, radios or stereos were allowed on board the schooner but musical instru­ments were encouraged, he said. 
Kerwin said that he learned a great deal in the semester and realizes the incredible opportunities which he has experienced that would have normally been impos­sible and recommends it to anyone interested in learning more about the ocean. 
Ted Hunter, specialagent in charge ofthe U.S. DrugEnforcement Administration, speaks to members of the press in Los Angeles concerning the confiscation ofa record 80 pounds ofheroin that were seized b_y agents atan internationalpostalcenter in Oakland Monday. 
fficGann fot mayor oteffiay3td ~ 

"Committed to uphold student rights •.." 

r-m4;int;-ntf4;;;;ii;1

I ·~~(--~-2 Haircut, Shampoo, I I '" Blow Dry, & Condition I I Reg. $15 I 
54533 Terrace Lane, S.B. 
N $S 50 1
IAcross from Martin's on St. Rd.23 Q W . WITH COUPON 1 Tues. Wed,_sa_t 8:3~-5:30 H • t I $6 WITH I 
Thur, Fn 8.30-8.30 atrcu on y COUPON.
I 272•0312 277·1691 
S601ferappliestoMALEpatronsonly.---=... Hair must be washed day of cut. 
I 


AD DEADLINES 

..C(IQowettg fp~ oQQ occog[ong'' 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway 232-3354 

Friday, April29 is the last regular issue of The Observerfor this semester. A commencement issue will be published on May 13 
ADVERTISING DEADLINES For the April 29 issue: *Ciassifieds are due by 3pm April28 
For the May 13 issue: *Ciassifieds are due by 3pm May 12. *Display ads are due by May 2 at 1 pm. 
students: Special Rates -Summer Storage 
Bring friends and share a space 
Store all your peraonal ltema 
•Furniture 
• Recreational equipment • Automobile• •lnventorlea •Recorda 
•Boata 
IIZU •Paved 5xl •Lighted 10 X 10 •Fenced 10 X 20 
• Patrolled 
'5vli:J*\ 
Cleveland 
\. oso \ f /
c UniVOfSily
r.\; ~' t:!..' • "' 2 lJNIVUSIH-/ Po<k Mall V ' ~';/ tl Toll Road ~ II:T-J•-S't_l 
c~~~ ---S-1-In~-M-ory ~v· /
Douglas 
Not<o Domol 
I * 
'"LOCal~ Qlreclly t)el'llnd ANYTHING GROW$ L•wn •nd Garden Cent.,· 


Movin'out? 
RENTA 






RYDER TRUCK 
It you·re 18 or over you can rent a Ryder truck to use locally or on a one-way {rent-it-here. leave-it-rhere) trip to another city 
Compare costs before you make plans tor moving at the end 
ot the semester W1th a truck you can take along your stereo. 10-speed. 
clothes. all your stuff. and still have plenty of room tor one or two other 
people and the1r th1ngs. so you can share the costs. Compare that to a 
plane ticket Or even a bus. 

Rent from the best-maintained. most dependable fleet in [R 'I ~--·. 
________Any-onewa-iorfocaf 
rental card rate with thisCOUPON! 
Offer good through June 30, 1983 at 2715 N Bendix Drive, South Bend. 
RYDERTRUCKRENTAL 
2715N.BENDIX DR South Bend 



~-­
Editorials 
Thursday, April 28, 1983 -page 6 
ROTC: An unreasonable compromise 
Editor's note: This is the second in a three part series examining pacifism and ROTC. 
Kevin Walsh 
Guest Columnist 
The issue of primary importance concern­ing the ROTC programs seems to be that of the financial assistance or scholarships given to the students by the program. Ofthe persons whom I've known at Notre Dame in ROTC, the most often-cited reason for joining the program was that, without the ROTC scholar­ship, many of the students could never afford to come to such an expensive school as Notre 
Dame. Having paid my own way through school by a combination of earnings from summer jobs as well as grants, loans, and scholarships from high school and Notre Dame, I can certainly sympathize with those persons who are not from wealthy families and who must rely on some sort of outside assistance to afford Notre Dame. However, if the price paid to gain such scholarships com­promises one's Christian values (as espoused by Jesus in the gospels) somewhere "down the line" in the military such a price, regard­less of the "good" gained (such as a Notre 
Dame education) cannot be worth it. 
The February Scholastic article raised an­other ,:::oncern related to the question of federal aid (military or otherwise). The author states: "part of the reason for the in· crease (of ROTC members at Notre Dame) lies in the increased scholarship opportunities initiated by Congress in 1981." Most students who receive federal aid will remember that it was in that very same year, 1981, when Congress decreased much of the other stu­dent federal aid programs, such as the BEOG and SEOG, as well as some ofthe federal loan programs. When one considers this phenomenon, an increase in military student scholarships and a decrease in non-miliatary student scholarships, one realizes that what actually occurred in 1981 was not a "drastic cutback" in student federal aid but rather a transfer of that aid from students not in the military programs to students who are in such programs. 
As a Christian, I see such a phenomenon as both tragic and unfortunate for all students concerned. I say for all students because not only were those ofus who once received such aid hurt by the cutbacks, but also many stu­dents who otherwise never would have joined ROTC (and thus possibly com­promised some basic gospel values) felt 
forced to do so as the only means of paying high tuition costs. In response to such a tragic scenario, I adv­ocate two proposals: that as Christian stu­
dents, we oppose any such transfers offederal aid from non-military usage to military usage in the future, and as a replacemet to the ROTC scholarship (and program) at Notre Dame, we develop and institute some type ofalternative scholarship fund, to which Christians who are dedicated to peace might contribute, and from which students who are qualifted for yet otherwise could not afford Notre Dame, might draw. Ifsuch an alternative scholarship fund did not receive sufficient donations through ordinary contributions, then those Christians who see the value in such a fund could withhold that percentage of their federal taxes which goes to the military es­tablishment and contribute the withheld money to the scholarship fund. This "alternative scholarship fund" is obviously just a suggestion and would require much 
work and imagination to implement, yet it · certainly does not seem impossible, non­desirable, or unnecessary. 
Another area of major concern involving ROTC and the Catholic faith involves a ques­tion of loyalties -loyalty to the nation (and its military leaders) versus loyalty to the Church (and its leaders). Except for the recent past, in the case of Catholicism in the United States this was not a question ofloyalty to one or the other; they both seemed to go "hand in hand," and the Church was, for the most part, supportive of the state. Col Webster of ROTC at Notre Dame, in another 
Scholastic article, summed up this historical viewpoint quite well when he stated that Notre Dame "has always supported the military!" and that "the moral responsibilities that Catholics have typically had are to sup­port the national as well as the Church." What happens when the Church has stated con­cerns directly against a certain governmental policy, yet the ex-ROTC-now-military-person is ordered to maintain that policy? Obviously, the question is not a hypothetical or abstract one, for on two major United States policy positions in recent years, one concerning American involvement in El Salvador and the other concerning nuclear warfare, the leaders ofthe Roman Catholic Church in this country has publicly criticized and condemned that policy. To which does the post-ROTC student remain loyal, the Church or the military establishment? If the military and Catholic institutions were not so intertwined, as the ROTC program is at Notre Dame, then such a question of loyalties would not arise. The bishops state in their letter, "We are com­ing to a fuller awareness that a response to the call of Jesus is both personal and demand­ing ... To obey the call of Jesus means to separate· ourselves from all attachments and affiliations that could prevent us from hearing. and following one's authentic vocation." ROTC at Notre Dame is one such "attachment" or "affiliation" and thus should be removed from this campus. 
.i 
:! 
,I
,, 
,. 
;/ 
,, 
: .. 
• ,J I 
.,tj 
P. 0. BoxQ 
A muddy band 
DearEditor: 
I would like to express my anger and dis­appointent with the students who were at the mud pits last Saturday. 
I was a member of the "Mud Band" that each year leads the chariot procession. All of the band members who participate in this event do so because they enjoy it. At least in past years it has been enjoyable. 
This year was different however. As the band began its traditional march across the pits, approximately 200 people pelted us with rocks and mud. I don't know why they did this. Was it fun? Did some group men­tality cause them to be oblivious to their own actions? Regardless of their reasoning, 
t heir actions were childish, dangerous and just plain stupid. Not only could someone have been seriously injured, but also our in­struments, worth more than SlO,OOO, could have been damaged. Luckily, our hasty retreat allowed us to avoid both conse­quences. 
Let me say that I enjoy having a good time at An Tostal. This was not a good time. Let me also say that I believe that Notre Dame students usually act responsibly while having fun. This was an exception. However, last year Bill Granger abused me in his second article after Iwrote to him in defense of Notre Dame students. I told him that we are able to celebrate without being the jackasses he described in his column. 
I hate being wrong. 
Tom ~i!fY 
Wasted eggs 
DearEditor: 
I agree with Sylvia Mayr (April 20); the An Tostal Egg Toss is sinfully wasteful, and does say something about our society's values. 
Yet while Ms. Mayr is mourning the fate of 
a few dozen eggs, I wonder ifshe is aware of 
a much more serious misuse offood at Notre Dame. As a part-time worker at the North Dining Hall, I can attest to the fact that large amounts of food -sometimes untouched platefuls -are sent daily to the slop lines there. 
Granted, some items that look good at the servingcounter may not prove to be quite so tasty at that first bite. But if the often hc:ard complaint about the monotonous repetition ofdining hall meals is at all justified, most of the students should have an idea of the taste ofalmost every entree within weeks of their arrival as freshmen. 
Has Ms. Mayr thought to address the issue of dining-hall wastefulness? Has she chastised her fellow students upon seeing them plunk a full tray onto the belt? Food does not have to be thrown to be wasted. 
Furthermore, to claim that Austrians have cornered the market on moral responsibility is absurd. A recent participant in the Angers program, I have visited a number of \Vest European nations, including Austria. Eating in student cafeterias and restaurants alike has convinced me that people in Austria are just as wasteful as Americans. Apparently, members of affluent societies everywhere do not care to consider that what they play with and throw away is desperately needed for survival in most ofthe world. 
Ms. Mayr, you say that you are a "dumb, arrogant foreigner." I don't know about that. I do know that you are a little chauvinistic, however. Unfortunately, that has also made you more than a little penny-wise and dollar­foolish. 
Central America 
DearEditor: 
In response to T.J. Conley's article on "Hypocrisy in Central America": From your analysis, Mr. Conley, we can deduce the very reason why the Reagan Administration has opted to use such "naive or cynical" response to the American involvement in Central America. Because ofyour lack ofun­derstanding, or better yet, your blatant ig­norance, I suggest you research your topic better next time (i.e. forget the The New York Times), and instead of keeping an Eye on the Americas, open both!! 
Roberto]. Fabian MBA Graduate 
Mice experiments 
lJearEditor: 
Sending a mouse to "College" sounds fine, even noble. For a mere 87 cents it seems a bargain. But consider what the mouse receives for 87 cents. He is educated in torture, torment, and agony in the name of "Science"; he undergoes excruciating tests without respite in the name of "Research"; and he suffers all devisable means ofcruelty without painkillers. A "bargain" at 87 cents. 
The pennies could be better spent. 
"Thousands" of live animals are not needed 
for research. Human lives can be saved by 
other tests -none of which destroy life for 
so little a return. 
And it is a small return. Anything tested on animals always undergoes a trial run on humans; so different are the two that a similar outcome on man is never guaranteed -indeed, disastrous results occur. Yet, ironically enough, scientists claim there are substantial similarities between animals and man: ifso, should man even be inflicting pain on them? 
Before spending 87 cents to send a mouse to the College ofTorture, think again: do you 
really  want to be responsible  for  his  
"education"?  
Tammy Sestak  

Editor'sNote: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints ofthe editorial page. Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone num­ber, and signature of the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not acceptable. Reproduc­tions, carbon copies, or letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not accept· able. All letters are subject to editing. 

THE WINDON OF VUI.NtR~ILlTY 
========~==~======~~----~~~~*  
Saint Mary··s f.ditor ..................Anne Monastyrski  
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239·5303  Managing Editor....................... Margaret Fosmoe  Sports Editor ................................Michael Riccardi  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­ Executive Editor...::............................ Paul McGinn  Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton  
versity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect  News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide  Pboto Editor..........................................Scott Bower  
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­ News Editor....................................Mark Worscheh  
i I i. f  curatel-y and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, leHers, and the Inside Column present the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, anti the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966  Depanocnent~ge~ Business Manager ...........................Daniel O'Hare Cor~ troller...............................................Alex Szilvas Advertising Manager..........................Chris Owen  Production Manager................Suzanne La Croix Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto S,stemsManager..............................Bruce Oakley  


-~ ....... ·~ -~ ----------------· 
__stt_0W C (~iiiiiiiSiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiTiihuiirsdiilayii,Aliipriiilzsiii,1ii9siii3~piiiiageiii7 
Tout the nQtion on BLUE HIGHWAYS 
T
ravelling the great Interstates ofour land is not unlike undergoing a frontal lobotomy. Ribbons of pale concrete stretch into infinity, acres ofbland land roll past; occasionally, an interchange leading to some obscure town will appear. However, if you are like most drivers, you are mesmerized by the rotating digits ofthe odometer. Upon reaching your destination, friends may ask: "hpw was your trip?" The answer is not easy -if 
Ryan Vet Betkmoes 
book review 
you have travelled in the East, all you can remember is the succession ofpig farms in Ohio, if you've been through the West, it's probably the parade ofsquashed desert varmints. God help you if you ventured through Kansas or Nebraska. 
Once upon a time, though, there were no Interstates. Not only was car-tripping not so easy, it was much more adventurous, and a heck of a lot more interesting. The roads were narrow and in many cases tortuous. Just when you would get up speed, another hamlet would appear around the ben-d. Although-nOt-as efficient as a cruise-controlled trajectory, it was hard to get bored because in each ofthese little burgs, and not in some an­tiseptic reststop, can be found the real America The trains and buses claim to let yousee America, but mostly you see America's backyard on the train, and America's derelicts on the bus. 
An easy way to touch our nation's soul can be found on any road map. Overshadowed by the bombastic red lines ofthe multi-lanes are the secondary roads, the roads which have gone into their asphalt autumn. In their heyday these routes were the nation's arteries, like 

Blue HighwMys, Wifliam Least Heat Moon, Lillie, Brown and Company, 
Boston, 1982. 420 pages, I I 7.50. 
U.S. 66, whose dotted lines a whole generation followed to populate the west. Today these roads are content to provide passage for farmers going to market, and their sons and daughters out to wreck the new pick-up. 
InBlueHighways, William Least Heat Moon travelled these roads, finding national insight and per­sonal inspiration. Moon had been a teacher in Missouri when the pink slip arrived. The next day he tossed his sleeping bag into his van and followed the blue high­ways (traditionally, secondary roads are denoted on maps in bluo ink). He found more to them than the color ofink, as he says in his opening statement. 
On the old highway maps ofAmerica, the main routes were red and the back roads blue. Now even the colors are changing. But in those brevities just before dawn and a little after dusk -times neitherday nor night -the old roads return to the sky some ofits color. Then, in truth, they cany a mysterious cast of blue, and it's that time when the pull ofthe blue high­way is strongest, when the open road is a beckoning, a strangeness, a place where a man can lose himself" 
During his trip, Moon hit such hotspots as Nameless, 
Tennessee, Lookingglass, Oregon, the Cajun country of 
Louisiana, and a place ofhis ancestors in New York. 
Moon is an American Indian, which makes his journey 
through what is truly his native land more meaningful. 
Moon has a gift for gab. As he and Ghost Dancing, the 
name ofhis van, crest each hill, Moon fmds a new reason to pull over to the side and meet some new people. This is what makesBlue Highways special. It is not a travelogue ofscenery, something National Geographic has done first and better, but rather it is a chronicle of people. These are not special people, they are not the dog-faced boys, three-legged ladies, or other eccentrics others exploit to spice otherwise dull tomes, instead they are the common man and woman. Moon shines by illuminatingthe innate fascination all people have to of­fer. His liteQil portraits ofhitchhikers, middle-class diners, and'=tderly bar owners are further enhanced by 
the frequent inclusion ofpictures. These serve to add a sense ofreality to a book that is often overwhelming. 
To read Blue Highways is to experience an ad­venture that few people enjoy first hand. During times ofpessimism and self-doubt it is good to be reminded that a nation does not exceed the sum of its people. Blue Highways offers plenty ofreasons to be happy. 

Right messQge, but wrong delivery 
P
erhaps Eugene Changey's message should be expressed. Indeed, I think it should; however, "All Souls are Mine" does not do so adequately. In his personal testa· ment, Changey reminds readers of man's continual cruelty to man and the fact that this will only lead to uni­versal disaster. The author prescibes prayer and profound faith in God if we are to surive as a civilization. However, he does so through a nar­rative that is a little less than 
Sarah Hamilton 
book review 
believable at times. It's not exactly light reading for the beach. 
"All Souls are Mine" focuses on about 15 years ofthe author's life, during which he suffered a series of mental breakdowns and, according to him, recovered by turning to God and prayer. The author calls this book an autobiography and also "a biography ofGod asHe exists today." But he spends more time condemning mankind and profess­ing extreme pessimism concerning humanity than telling his story. The most depressing aspect ofhis work is that very rarely, if at all, does Chan­gey say anything positive about man. As far as he is concerned man must make a complete turnaround ifhe wants the world to continue revolv­ing after tomorrow. And this is not true. Man posseses and exhibits a great amount ofgood, which Chan­gey ignores. 
There is value in Changey's words, despite his negligence. He verbalizes fears about nuclear destruction that are now coming to a head in the form offreeze referen-
As for the style, it is flat but clear.
"<!."'_,______.._ 
dums. He emphasizes the impor­
tance of rectifying the present situation by redirecting our efforts: "Ofcourse, the government can't af­
ford to help these innumerable or­
ganizations. The defense ofthe country must come first. How many billions of dollars are spent to kill and maim people instead of money spent to help them. Ifonly cancer and other research organizations had a part ofthis money, how much advancement would be made in 
these fields!" 
As for the story itself, it is difficult to read in one sitting, even though it is so short -it lacks excitement. Af­ter Changey's first shock treatment, the hospital scenes are monotonous for the most part. Possibly the greatest suspense in the book comes when the author storms the White House in hopes ofshowing the Presi­dent his autobiography and sharing with him the Light that is the living God and that he possesses. I'm not about to expose the climax ofthis one semi-exciting scene. 
Even if you are not one to demand action and thrills at the turn ofevery page, you still may not be satisfied with Changey's narrative. Much of the plot is the relation ofdreams and visions which the author ex­perienced. He insists that they are true. Aware that we are only receiv­ing his viewpoint, it is hard to accept all ofChangey's "visions" at full face 
value. He reports several instances 
ofwhat he refers to as God guiding 
his destiny. To the average person 
and to the non-religious psychology 
expert these may seem like ordinary 
cases ofdeja-vu or phenomena that 
could be explained by some other 
psychological theory. Something 
just isn't kosher. 
His language is simple and straightforward. Consequently it is often dull and lifeless. Changey ob­viously has some brilliant insight but it will not be recognized if his words cannot convey it properly. 
Interspersed throughout the text are quotations from scripture. These seem to be added merely to substan­tiate Changey's own story. They ap­pear just weak alibis and often seem out ofplace. The quotes do, however, break up the monotony of the author's own words. 
It is unfortunate that Changey could not have related his message to the world in a more effective way. His not-so-subtle hints ofnuclear proliferation are very applicable today. And it would be terrific if people gained a greater faith in God. But I don't thinkAI/ Souls are Mine 
will accomplish this. The wealth of the book can actually ba acquired within its first 20 pages. After that you would be betteroffto spend the time praying for the world's salvation. 

All Suuls orr Mint, Eugene Clancy, Carlton Press, Inc., New York, 1959, III pages, I].75. 
lstQeli intrigue 
Inthis era oftension in the Middle East, countless stories ofintrigue have been written. Few if any ofthese accounts are as suspenseful and as fascinating as John Le Carre's The Little Drummer Girl. 
LeCarre's latest literary effort deviates from his usual works in that he has abandoned the continuation ofhis omnibus series The Quest for Karla in order to pursue new themes and to develop new charac­ters. The Little DrummerGirl is a break from LeCarre's literary tradi­tion that will be welcomed not only by his faithful readers, but by those (like myself) who have never read any ofhis other novels. 
The Little DrummerGirl was written in Palestine, thus adding ad­ditional depth and authenticity to the story. In preparing his work, 
Carol Camp 
book review 

LeCarre worked with both Israeli and Palestinian sources in order to provide his characters and his readers with the most accurate his­torical background possible. 
Set against this background, LeCarre's story of mystery, intrigue, and suspense begins. An elusive and extremely dangerous Pales­tinian terrorist is being relentlessly pursued by Israeli intelligence officers throughout Europe. The search is made even more compli­cated because the only element which distinguishes this man from any other is his trademark-the coil ofwire which he uses to make small homemade bombs to murderJewish dignitaries in Zurich, Leyden, and other European cities. Although he is isolated from his terrorist associates, he nevertheless coordinates an extensive net­work ofterrorist activity on the continent. ··.I 


Kurtz, the Israeli intelligence officer, is charged with the respon­' ' sibility ofhunting this elusive quarry. Uke the man he pursues, Kurtz prefers to do his dirty work with the assistance ofa bloodthirsty private army. The competition between the two men is intense: both are schemers -ruthless, vicious, and not above resorting to any and all tactics necessary to achieve their overall objectives. 
Unlike his prey, Kurtz does not choose to work alone; rather, he enlists the aid ofhis old friend Joseph, a veteran ofthe Israeli special forces, and Charlie, a beautiful young English actress. It is through her eyes that LeCarre ties together the story's plot and counterplot, its internal and external dramas. As he takes his characters on a whirlwind chase throughout the cities ofEurope and Palestine, the drama unfolds through Charlie's performance in what Kurtz calls "the theatre ofthe real." Indeed, it is through Charlie that the reader is introduced not only to the conflict, but to its intensity as well. 
In order to whet the potential reader's appetite, I do not wish to reveal too much ofthe plot except to say that anyone who loves a suspenseful work set within a modern historical context will not be disappointed. Although the book is a bit difficult to get into at first, it's worth the effort to take some time and delve into its contents. In my opinion, it is a rewarding endeavor, because ofthe perspective on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict which LeCarre provides. Many times, it is difficult for us to understand the rationale behind the in­tense emotions which play such a vital role in the Middle East. For two groups ofpeople, Palestine is home, sanctuary, identity ­
indeed, survival. In Tbe Little DrummerGirl, LeCarre attempts to­and does-personify those aspects ofthe conflict within an intrigu­ing framework. 

-----------~------~ ~~~----~ ----­
Thursday, April 28, 1983 -page 8
Sports Brief§ 
c===~=======F==============================~
by The Obserz,er and The Associated Press 
• • • Cable 

Nolan Ryanofthe Houston Astros broke one ofbaseball's 
continuedfrom page 12 panics for coverage of their games. Large state universities are career in the eighth inning ofa game at Montreal against the Expos. 
most durable records when he struck out the 3,509th batter of his The possible shift in the influence predicted to create strong regional
In the future Wussler believes the 
of the NCAA will cause changes in packages with the networks and theThe victim was pinch-hitter Brad Mills, who was caught looking at a 
impact of ,cable on the media could 
the television coverage ofcollegiate cable companies. Wussler thinkscurveball on a 1-2 count. Ryan broke the record held for 55 years by 
create a national collegiate women's 
football. Wussler predicts that the that each network and the cableWalter Johnson, Hall of Farner for the Washington Senators. By the 
basketball league and that some of 
major football schools who are operators wil1 feature a "game oftheway, the Astros -and Ryan -won 4-2. -AP 
the smaller schools and the black in­
members of the College Football As­week," and that Turner Broadcast· 
stitutions should receive more 
sociation will unite to form a nation­ing has the money and resources to 
coverage. "These things will not 
al football package. form cable networks in the future. 
happen overnight, but they are 
Rice agrees with Wussler on this According to Wussler, "I think
The ND-SMC Sailing Club will host the second 
probables for the future," says Wus­
point and predicts that the role of there is a lesson to be learned outannual Clean and Sweep Regatta for club members this weekend. 
sler. 
the NCAA in collegiate football will there ...we can put things togetherInterested members should attend tonight's meeting in the boat· 
The impact of cable television on 
be similar to its role in basketball. on an ad boc or a regular basis.
house at 6:30. Everyone is welcome to attend. -The Observer 
collegiate sports still remains to be 
Rice believes that the NCAA will Tomorrow: Tbe effect tbe cable 
seen in the eyes of many major uni· 
deal more with championship foot­revolution could bave on Notre 
versities. Most major institutions 
ball games in the future. Dame. 
still regard cable as an unknown en­
The SMC tennis teamdefeated St. Francis of Illinois tity. 
yesterday, 6-1. Debbie Laventie, Maureen Fitzgerald, Ann Huber, 
"Cable television is a mystery to 
Baseball team loses 
Christian Beck, and Allison Pellar won their singles matches, and the 
us right now," says Homer Rice, ath· 
first doubles team of Laventie and Fitzgerald defeated its St. Francis 
letic director at Georgia Tech. "The 
opponents. -The Observer 
money is not there yet, but it looks like it will be there," he continues. 
doubleheader to BG 
Saint Mary's track team finished second in a tri· 
angular meet at Taylor University yesterday. The hosts won 96 points to Saint Mary's 36 and Goshen College's 31. Annette Isom won both the 1500-and 3000-yard runs, and Cindy Short set a school record in the 800 yards with a 2:17.1. Lisa Johnston also broke a Belles' standard while finishing second in the I00-meter hurdles in a time of 16.4. -The Observer 
Afl informal afternOOfl of Ultimate Frisbee will 
take place on Sunday beginning at I p.m. behind Jake Kline Field, 
sponsored by the Ultimate Frisbee Club. Come out and see the Gnar-·. 
Iy Buzzards; Ultimate Buzz; Fisher, An Tostal champions; Ultimate 
Mutt; The Losers; and more. For more information on this event contact Tom Limanek at 8797. ~ Tbe Observer 
Rice believes that cable television will continue to expand in the future and claims "the Atlantic Coast Con­ference is getting ready to get in­volved with subscription cable." 
Turner Broadcasting is not currently planning to increase its coverage ofcollegiate athletics. Tur­ner Broadcasting, the networks, the NCAA, and its member institutions are waiting for an overdue court decision concerning the legality of the NCAA's role as negotiator in football television contracts. 
"Ifthey lose control over football, it's the beginning of the end for the NCAA," predicts Wussler. If the cur­rent television contracts are found to be illegal, then individual schools will be free to negotiate directly with the networks and cable com-
By NEAL SMITH 
Sports Writer 
Making it the lOth loss of its last 11 games, the Irish baseball team was defeated 4-1 and 7·2 Tuesday at Bowling Green State University. 
"We just didn't score any runs. It's just the same old story all year," commented Coach Larry Gallo. "They (the players) feel as though we're not capable of scoing many runs." For the season, Notre Dame, 12-22, is batting .224 and has scored 117 runs compared to their op­ponents' .290 average and 169 runs. 
In the opening game against the Bowling Green Falcons, the Irish collected only three hits. 
After two first-inning runs by the Falcons, Notre Dame picked up .its 
lone run on a double by centerfiel­der Steve Passinault. 
In the third inning of the second game with one run and the bases loaded, Bowling Green made it 5-0 with one swing of the bat. The Fal­cons'John Basy hit Bill Stonikas' first pitch to him out of the park for a grand slam. Basy had been called out on strikes in the first inning with the bases loaded and two outs. 
Bob Hickey replaced Stonikas ( 1­
3) and proceeded to give up a single and a double to make the score 6-0 in the fourth inning. 
In the sixth, Notre Dame made it 6-2. Rick Chryst hit a solo home run and Jim Dee had a run scoring double. 

Classifieds  Tbe Observer Lafortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:30p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint Mary's office in the Regina Hall basement is open from noon to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per day.  
LOST/STOLEN -FROM CHANCE TO To Sublet: One Bedoom Apt. Completely DANCE AT STEPAN CENTER. Fnday Furnished, Great Safe Location onNOTICES night, 4/22/83 bnght turquo1se jacket Rives1de Dr. Rent Negotrable. Call Sean. containing all my keys. Please return at 289·9309. least the keys • they are all very ImpOr­tant. Call 284-4307 No quest1ons asked. TYPING AVAilABLE 287-4082 You can even keep I he jacket. TYPING, Jackie Boggs. 684-8793. LOST: t Members Only style jacket With ~W_A_N_TE_D~~ no brand name -SIZe 40R -color tan Boarding horses. 1 mi. from N.D. Covered FOUND: t Members Only style jacket -arena. 277-5828 (nng 12x) tan 1n color-s1ze 13/14 Anyonecom1ng back on June 18th or 19th Housesitters ava1lable June·August. LOST-A brown cowboy hat in LaFortune from the Washington D.C. area? Want to Responsible mamed couple will ex­lobby on Apnl t t. If found please call wok out a nde? Call Kathleen at 2946 change light maintenance for housing. Steve at 283-828t. Call Roberta 237-4444 from 8·5. FEMALE NEEDS ROOMMATE FOR LOST: Blue nylon wallet. Sometime SUMMER SUBLET IN CHICAGO. LIN­MAKE YOUR SCHOOLS OUT PARTY A Friday near Holy Cross. Reward. Call COLN PRK APT GREAT VIEW OF LAKE 3MASH. LET CREATIVE AUDIO PLAN Paul3163. CAlL4418 rHE MUSIC FOR YOUR NEXT GREAT TIME. CALL 277-6046 MORNINGS LOST· one pa1r of while. Pony basketball CAROLINA. CAROLINA .CAROLINA shoes between Zahm and St. Ed's, on Need A1der. Leav~ng Tue. May tO Call Baggage to New York Sunday. April 23 about 4·oo. Please call Jeff at 3126. Take your b1kes. rugs. bags, & boxes with Brad if found, 8920. My feet are cold. ynu when you go ­watch for info in the 82 GRAD needs female roommate 1n 'llail. FOUND in North Quad area, a man's rrng. Evanston IL. Call Rem (312) 864-8494 NY METRO CLUB Call Jeff or TomS. at t 764 Need noe to Boston Can leave mght of ~4eed rides to your storage location? LOST: A Be1ge '"Members Only'" wa1st· May 7. Will share usual. Call Tom x6802 'iave station wagon. Price ­roughly $5 length jacket taken by m1stake at South Jar trip. Call 6827 for appointment. Dimng Hall. I have yours and 1t"s too b1g! I'm look1ng for someone mterested in Please call Mary Ellen at #7974. traveling around Europe for awn1le 1n ~--ofessional typing. $1 per page Free June and July. Eura11 Pass, hostels. back· prck up and delivery. 282-1805. LOST: '"St. T1mothy" medal and cha1n 1n packs, etc. Call Jeff 1 764 the gym at the Rock last Sal. mghl. Was a!'"____________,.. 91ft from Grandma so please return. No GOING TO COLUMBUS. OHIO ON MAY questions. Reward. Call T1m #8181 9th? Don't have too much stuff? Interested 1nLOST/FOUND Lost or "Borrowed'" ­My hght brown Jox shanng cost of rent-a-car? If so, call Dan --·---------------~ running shoes from outs1de Flanner "A" x150t Section door (nearest P.W.) 4/25. FC·LIND ON SOUTH QUAD; Cas10 five· Anyone who'd take a npped up muddy WANTED Photos of THE KINETICS at the furrction watch. Has initials on the back. and wet pa1r of shoes needs them more Beaux Arts Ball. Rick 233·6068. Blue, with silver watchband. Call Marty at than me. You're welco to keep them, just 1G22. return the keys that were in them to Mike I Need a nde lo BAL • at 1068. TIMORE/WASHINGTON area on May FOUND: TRINITY HIGH SCHOOL Class 10 or 11. Will share usual. J1m -277­F.ing-1982. lnrtials CJJ inside. Found 0992 on stnk in bathroom of Nteuwland Sc1ence ":an Wednesday, April 20. Call Chris I LOVE NJ and need to get home. Leav1ng FOR RENT .: J 184 before 11 is pawned. 5/10 or after. Split usual. Mark at 1 725 LOST: NAVY BLUE JACKET AT RIDER WANTED TO CENTRAL NJ. 4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo. allRECESS ON SAT. PLEASE CALL Leave Tue 5/3. Call Jack 277-1185 utilities 1ncluded June or Sept. Call 3 t 9·t<RIANAT1479 322-8735 Patty Need nde to Boston on May t 0. Anna ONE MORE TRY!! 1316 Summer School? Apts. tor Rent nearN.D.Were you at St Ed's formal before Easter? Utilities Pd. Less Gas ph.272026tDid you walk out in the wrong shoes? I Hey Mack -Can you spare a gradua· have your navy Red Cross shoes, but I tion lt~kat'! Faculty or Grad Students. 4 Bedroomprefer my own navy Upstage If you have 1 extra ticket lor sale,House, fully furnished with washer/dryer. shoes ... please trade back!! Call Uz at please call Tncia 2959 NICe! $400/month. 288-3t09.58251 cannot wear yoursI!I call Liz a 6825 RIDE: Carpool wanted to Portland. Ore S·BEDROOM STUDENT RENTAL. $400. Call Br~an #8t64 I_OST IN MUD PITS: Polo keychain with 233-6779. .11234 on them. REWARD!!! Please call Need a nde to NORTH JERSEY. Can Clean furnished lor 3·4 students, 931 N.1288. leave after 5:00 5/10. Share usual. Little Notre Dame. After 6 p.m. 232-0535. luggage. Call Shelly 8026. LOST Gray NO sweatshirt with sleeves For Summer storage call 283-3204 close cut off. At the Beaux Arts Ball. Call Rick Need ride to Minn.. St. Paul area 5· t 0 orto campus ·secure • plenty of space 23S-6068 later. Will pey. Call She1la 284-4186.---share it with a friend and save---· ·····~·-······-·;·:--···············~~···-=-~"''••············ . .~···•.:.:;;1 ······:·~··~·····~···········;-······:·""~:··~~··:·~·  Waiters, wa1tresses, cooks. Expenence I DESPERATELY WANT TO SEE CAR­The GQ ..• Our days grow few helpful but not necessary. May throu DINAL BERNADIN !!!.. and my besl August. Wa1ters and waitresses must be fnend is graduating. I Will pay BIG BUCKS 2t. Hudson's dept. store 277·7100 Ext. for a TICKET TO GRADUATION.. Call To the g1rl that keeps buying me Per­2520,9-11 a.m. for appt. Gus at 283-t 215 aHer 6 pm before sonals· graduation 1!1! I sa1d that I would stop With the Personals and so drd you. If you are going to go COMPUTER PROGRAMMERS WILL around break1ng promrses you should~,------~ FIX YOUR GRADES OR PAY$$$ FOR probably look in the Wanted section, GRADUATION TIX tomorrow. CALL ART OR KARL 1682 Love. the non-Europe tourist. _ FOR SALE -I RIDE NEEDED to BALL CarnattonsSTATE/MUNCIE Fnday 4/29. Ray Carnattons272·2531.USED, OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS Send a flower for a dollar BOUGHT, SOLD, SEARCHED. Send 11 to a sen1or to WISh Good Luck ERASMUS BOOKS. t027 E WAYNE. Send 11 to a fr1end 1n Apprec1allon ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY­Send it to a prof for mercy on the f1nals JEFFERSON INTERSECTION Selling this Saturday and SundayPERSONALS delivered on Study Days FOR SALE BY OWNER. Near Notre Dame. 2-bedroom bnck house, fenced Boston Club Elections yard. Many extras. $37,000. Days: 232­Sunday May 1 at 7 p.m. in LaFortune 203 t, ask for Sylvia. Other t1mes: 288­1982 NO GRAD seeks f~nanc1al aSSIS­Lrttle Theatre. All rnterested in running 6t34 or 239-7771 tance for Dental School (loans or any must be there All welcome to run and other aid) excellent tax break. vote. WINDSURFER FOR SALE USED ONE (312) 595-02t5 YEAR. $400 CALL MARK-8810 . 59 Hamilton St. Boston Baggage Truck Bensenville, 11160101 Will load May 8. Details 1n newsletter or 1210 GARlAND pay $222.87 when you come to elections. assume this 9.Sb FHA mortgage Century Eastern Atrhnes ts proud to announce tis 21 Carm1en Realty {219) 848-4477 CAMPUS COSTCUTIERS PROGRAM, TOMMY RYAN an effictent, mexpenstve way m whtch to There's never been a dull moment -REFRIGERATOR-L1ke New Call MJ at send your personal tlems home tor the thanks for 4 excrt~ng, unpredictable. 7950 summer break. For rnformat1on, see eventful years. /love you! Tuesday's or Wednesday's ad 1n the OB­ANNIE (alias BABYCAKES) Carpet, Gold, 8x12. 1 yr old. Call T1m at SERVER or call Jim Forde. Eastern 8631 A~rline·s Campus Rep at 3632. Mary& Joe Good luck des1gmng your plane -4 sale Onkyo 70w lnt Amp Great Shape Students tnterested tn worktng on the remember the land1ng gear so you can #3155 transfer onentallon committee for the Fall come back and see us. of "83 please call Mike Hennessey at Love, Dorm Room Relngerator. Bargain Pnce. #1152. Anne & Therese Call6729 Come one -come all HAPPY BIRTHDAY JENNY!! G1ant 1nventory-reductton sale CHORALE Concert Love. ND Sportswear and Souven~rs Fnday, Apnl2~ Sara ICE RINK-PRO SHOP-GATE 3-ACC 9 p.m. Sacred Heart Church May 2·8-tO a.m.-5 p.m. Hear lavorrtes such as '"Le Chant des BOSTON CLUB ELECTIONS Oyseaux" and '"Cantata Dom1no Sun 7 p.m. LaFortune. For Sale: 1 way a1r t1cket So. Bend to San All MASS resrdents welcome Jose, CA. $100. 25 · -6704 evenrng Want to try to show that Sctence and ELAINE HOCTERI CAR FOR SALE Technology can be Interesting? OK, I sard HAPPY BIRTHDAY KIDDO! Honda -good condition. Call 277-8546 try. If you do, call Science & Technology Hope you enjoy your 21 stl Squeeze afterSp.m. Editor Tom Mowle at The Observer (239­·em!!! 7471) and have your chance to be pubfished. Connec:tlcut and Rhode Island Bagg1J9'1Truck: Contact Bill at 1694 or WORKING IN CHICAGO THIS SUM­Lluat7884.TICKETS MER? Roommate needed June-August. Apart­THIS ONE'S FOR YOU!: ment in Lincoln Park area, 6 miles from "COMPROMISE, in the trad1honal sense Loop. Call Tom at x8728. Please Helpl Need One LOWER ARENA of the term IS Simply UNTHINKING TICKET for GRADUATION EXERCISES WEAKNESS when one cons1ders the ac­--Will trade one upper arena 11cket or Will ToEA(842): tual reasons lor crude relattonshtps wtth buy. Please call Debbie at 234-7961 Je t'atme, mon amte. the ANIMALS" Thanks I TC BOSTON CLUB ELECTIONS 1 desperately need five TICKETS for GIRLS, GIRlS, GIRLS: Today is "RIP'' SUNDAY GRADUATION EXERCISES. Please call "GRAF'S 19th Birthday. G1ve him a call at Ph1lat 277-1759. Thanks. x 3579 and wake him up from the dead. I'll never get to Elkhart  

! 

The Observer Sports Extra-ND and the draft Thursday, April 28, 1983 -page 9 


Larry Moriarty 
Moriarty picked up by Oilers in 5th 
Big fullback wants to show scouts they are wrong 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
Larry Moriarty is facing another big challenge in his life. 
At age 16, he was given the challenge of survival. First, he cracked his skull in an accident causing him to lose his hearing in his left ear. Six months later he laid in a hospital bed with a severe case ofspinal meningitis. 
He survived. 
Later, Moriarty decided to challenge his body, which he considered frail, to its greater potentials. Today he is recognized as the strongest man in None Dame history with his ability to bench-press 485 pounds, squat 660, and dean and jerk 330 pounds. 
His older brother, Kerry, then suggested that he meet 
the challenge ofplaying junior college footbalL 
After just one year, his performance at Santa Barbara City College was spectacular enough to earn a scholar­ship to Notre Dame and face another challenge. 
He finished his career at Notre Dame with a 6.2-yard average gain every time he toted the footbalL He opened his senior year with a dazzling 116-yard perfor­mance on 16 carries against Michigan on national television, and then rocked Purdue for 106 yards on 19 rushes the next week. He finished the year with 520 yards on only 88 carries and five touchdowns, despite missing two games with an injury. An excellent pass receiver, he also latched on to 18 passes for 173 yards 
and two more touchdowns. His seven touchdowns led 
the team. 
And now there is another challenge. 
He is upset because he feels that people in the Nation­
al Football League greatly underestimated his explosive 
talents. 
"I'm not disappointed with going to Houston," said the candid Moriarty. "In fact, I'm happy with the place and I just thank God that I still have the opportunity to play football at aiL But I'm very disappointed in the round I was selected in. From all the talk before the 
draft, I expected to go in the second or third round. The thing that really gets me, though, without mentioning any names, is that I know that some of the fullbacks selected before me don't have the athletic ability that I do." 
Beingdrafted much lower than he expected to be has not given him the "Gee whiz, I just hope to make the team" attitude. Rather, a man who has the reputation of reaching the goals he sets for himself has regained that hungry feeling he had when he started lifting weights and playing competitive football again. 
"I'll tell you, I'm a very competitive person," Moriarty stated firmly. "As upset as I am now, it has made me set some high standards for myselfnow. I want to show the league that they made a mistake in overlooking me the way they did." 
Clasby pleased as he is picked by Sea. in ninth 
ByJANE HEALEY 
AssistantSports Editor 
Right after Mark Zavagnin went to the Chicago Bears in the ninth round of the NFL draft, teammate Bob Clasby was taken by the Seattle Seahawks. 
"I think it's great," Clasby said. "They showed a lot of interest in be before the draft. Ifanyone was going to draft me, I would have expected it to be them." 

Clasby was also not surprised at 
going in one ofthe later rounds. 
"I expected to go around then," he said. "I wasn't even sure I would go at all -it was a S0-50 chance. Ninth is fine with me. As long as I'm drafted, I have an equal chance to make the team like anyone." 
Clasby, a Milton, Mass., native, was a two-year letterman for None Dame. He had 65 tackles and broke up two passes for the Irish in his defensive tackle spot last season. 
Clasby is excited about his new prospects on the West Coast. 
"They're an up-and-coming team," he said. "The coach, Chuck Knox, is one ofthe best." 
Knox contacted Clasby after the draft, telling him that he was happy he would be with the team. Knox also said that Clasby might not play defense for Seattle, but may move to the offensive line. 
"It'll be a tough change," Clasby said. "But I'll try it." 
Even though Clasby has never been to Seattle, he is looking for­ward to the move. 
Bears choose Zavagnin in Itinth 
Linebacker thinks he'll beat odds despite late pick 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 
The man who had to face the challenge of stepping into Bob Crable's shoes in the middle -and met the challenge -must now face an even bigger challenge. He must make the Chicago Bears despite being a low -ninth round -choice. He is not afraid of meeting this new task, however. 
"Whether you're picked in the first round or the ninth round, you still have to make the team," said Zavagnin. "I feel that I'll make the team." 
Like his fellow co-captain Dave Duerson, he will be playing dose to his home in Evergreen Park, IlL It is this fact, plus the fact that the Bears need a lot ofhelp, that makes him optimistic about his chances. 
"I figured if I was going to be picked in the late round, being picked by the Bears was the best thing that could happen," he said. "I feel it was my best opportunity to make a team. And being dose to home also makes it nice." 
Zavagnin is also confident that he has prove wrong the scouts that say he lacks mobility to go along with his toughness. 
"~think I can move side to side real welL I'll work on my speed and I'll be ready for camp. I have a lot ofincentive now. All I can ask for is a chance." 
And if that chance is as a special teams players, that is fine with Zavagnin, who was the team's leading tackler in 1982. "I played special teams when I was a freshman. Just being able to get into the game and contributing to the team would be nice." 
Ifhe meets this challenge like he met the last one, people at Notre Dame will be watching him on television quite a bit in the years to come. 
Bears hope for great things from Duerson 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 
Dave Duerson, one of last year's co-captains, is out to prove that 13 is not just a bad number -and has a good chance to do it -as he joins the Chicago Bears. He was the 13th defensive back chosen in Tuesday's draft as the Bears picked him up as the eighth choice in the third round. 
The 6-3, 202-lb. Duerson will not, however, be playing the same posi­tion -free safety -as he has for the last two seasons at Notre Dame. He will instead be moved over to cor­nerback to fill ne of the Bears' weaknesses. 
"They (the Bears) told me I'll play on the corner," said Duerson. '·'I played there for my first two years at Notre Dame and that's fine with me." 
Duerson, who was the 64th pick overall in the draft and the fourth choice of the Bears, is also happy to be playing for the Bears. Not only is it the type ofteam that needs a lot of help, but it is also dose to his home 

Mark Zavagnin 
6-3,228 9th round Chicago Bears 
in Muncie, Ind. 
In addition to playing cornerback, he may also be using his talents as a punt returner to help out the Bears. Whether he will be used as a starter at this position will be determined next year, but, because punt retur­ners live the most dangerous life of any football player, being a starting punt returner does not mean that you will be a starter for long. 

Meanwhile, Duerson will try to 
Dave Duerson 

live up to his scouting reports as someone who can use his speed to 6-3, 202 cover on passes and his toughness to 
3rd round 

come up to stop the run. 
Chicago Bears 

• • • Thayer 
continuedfrom page 12 
those two positions for the injury-riddled offensive line of the Blitz. 
Thayer, a Joliet, IHinois native, was drafted earlier in January by the Blitz. He admitted that he was more attracted to the USFL be­cause it would be less ofa risk. 
"I signed with the Blitz because I always wanted to play in my home town," Thayer said. "This was assured. In the other league, it was one chance in 28, and the Bears never even said that they were that interested. Washington, Philadelphia, Miami, a,nd Detroit all expressed more interest in me." 
On Tuesday, only hours after putting his name on the dotted line, .Thayer was already playing for the Blitz. Allen said that Thayer may 
even see action in this Sunday's game in Los Angeles. The thought doesn't bother Thayer one bit. "I've lost 25 pounds from a foolish 290-something I played in the 
Hula Bowl the last ofJanuary to a serious playingweig t ht of267," he said. 'Til play tomorrow." 
• • • Hunter 
continuedfrom page 12 
Coordinator Tom Lichtenberg, Hunter was positioned at wingback, an aU-around offensive position which called for Hunter to perform as a running back and a receiver. The experiment backfired after five games, and he was switched to wide receiver, then tight end, as Hunter searched for an offensive home. 
''I'm not the least bit concerned about what happened to him in college," said Stephenson. "He is a Kellen Winslow-type player who can line up on the line or wide out. He canbe a dominant National Football League player for the next 10 or 12 years." 
Hunter is being touted as another Winslow (the San Diego Char­ger superstar tight end); however, he feels he has a lot to prove before attaining that status. 
"I think that I have been blessed with the same type of ability (as Winslow)," said the product of Cincinnati's Moeller High School. "The only difference is that Winslow is an AU-Pro and I have to prove myself." 
Hunter flew from the draft in New York to Washington to meet with his agent, Rob Bennett, and will be in Buffalo for a press con­ference Monday. 
' 
J'• 
.. 
The Observer 
Free Pizza 
14''
Drawing Cheese
Sun, May 8, 11:30 PM With each order 4/21 . 5/8 Write name, phone#, ID# 

Pizza 
on the back of this cou· pon and give to driver. 
$5.40
25 Free 10" Pizzas 
Additional Cheese &1 ingredient 
Ingredients 75e~: Tax Included All NO & SMC Students Offer good with no other 
Offer good with no other coupon. No Checks. 
coupon. No Checks. Expires 5110183. 
Expires 519183. 

MOMAQE
TO  \ ··.  
ISADORA  
A Presentation by the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's Dance Theatre With guest artist Kathleen Quinlan April 29, "30, May 12, 13 at 8:00pm May 1 at 2:00pm  O'laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College $3 General Admission $2.50 Students. Senior Citizens. Faculty & Staff Opening Night: 2 for the price of 1 Information: 284-4640  

MANAGEMENT INTERNS 
Glendale Federal is currently seeking highly motivated men and women for its MANAGEMENT INTERN PROGRAM. Enthusiastic individuals with a 4-YEAR DEGREE {prefer Business), who possess LEADERSHIP QUALITIES are needed to help meet future management needs. Eighteen-month program provides an overall perspective of an expanding financial institution and offers the right individuals rewarding and challenging career opportunities. 
For immediate consideration,please send your resume with salary history to Employment Department. 
CiLEI\DALE FEDERAL 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER ANO LENDER 
350 S.E. Second Street Ft. Lauderdale, FL 33301 
Thursday, April28, 1983-page 10 
... Tennis 

continuedfrom page 12 
No. 4, defeated Russell Santos in straight sets, 6-4,6-3, for a 23·9 slate. 
Freshman Joe Nelligan added win number 18 against 13 losses in his 6-2, 1-6,6-3 beating ofjim Demos at No. 3, and at No. 6, junior Tim Noonan jumped to 22-6 with his tenth straight victory, a 3-6, 6-2, 6-3 comeback against Warren Kramer. 
Even after losing 3-6, 6-2, 5-7 to Steve Beir, sophomore Mike Gib­bons, playing No. 2, still boasts the best team record at 24-9. Counter­ing the loss and clinching the team win, sophomore Tom Pratt finished the regular season at 11-6 in his fifth spot by taking the honors, 6-4, 4-6, 6-3 over Allen Benson. 
Continuing their dominating play, the Irish kept rolling in doubles competition as the first team of Noonan and Novatny blasted Con­lon and Demos, 6-3, 6-1, to up their record to 15-12. McMahon and classmate Paulldzik dropped to 17­8 on the season at No. 2 as Beir and Benson snapped a six-match win­ning sireak, 6-3, 6-4, but at No. 3, Gibbons and sophomore Paul Najarian remained undefeated at 4-0 after a 6-7, 7-6, 7-6 squeaker over Santos and Kramer in the last match of the day. 
"I am very happy to have finished the season at 23-9, because I had had my doubts after the end of last season, but the new players stepped in and did well," commented Fallon. "I think we are back on. stride now, and we are very optimistic heading int6 the conference champion­ships." 
According to Fallon. the Irish must be considered contenders in the conference as they are certainly in the "upper echelon" of the teams · there. Action begins Saturday morn­ing at Evansville as the Irish attempt to climax their season with a team conference championship. 



Thursday Plight Special 
Mix Drinks 2 for 1 9·1 0 Budweiser Cans 9 5 c 1 0 ·close 
TONIGHT 9:00 &11:00 PM $1 
CHICKEN ENCHILADAS • CHEESE ENCHILADAS . BUILDYOUR OWN TACos+ CHIMICHANGAS 
• Refried Beans • Mexican Potatoes • Tortillas • Chili • Rice 
Help yourself to as much as you like of these Mexican specialties and freshly prepared items. Offer valid April 25·29. 
Offer good on -above dates during dinner hour~ only. Cannot br u~td in lOilJUllOIO!l \\ith other otter~. Tax and tip not included. Producb mu5-t be consumrd on prrmi~·.,. • 
52885 U.S. 31 North. South Bend. 272-5478 _. 


Ibe~~er======================================= 
~~4()l~~===========================T=h=u=rs=d=ay='=A=p=ri=l=28=,=1=9=8=3==p=a=g=e=l=l 


Bloom County 

~------------~ 
C'MON•.. I KNOW YOU'RE Ht:Y.' THE CAMPA10N 
CUTiER l CVT/f.R JOHN I 
IN H£R£ HIWIN0 AN CDMMiffEE NW15 
'IN11MA1t: CDNFE:Rt:NG€' YCJJR VaT£ . HE:Y l 
WITH BOBBI HARWW. H£Yl YOO HOO l 
I 
I 
~~) 
--,~~1
. ·' I 
Simon 
f/5 I 517 WtrTCIII#G TilE ({)LLlG/11T£ ~N SETTING UFOR£ f'1E, 1 P!rEfl/li'E!fflELf'... TilE /fEfif)II(E~ IS /1LL . 
T/fOIIGI/ I KMlW 
&lNG. 
YA KNOJJ, POU TICA(..(..Y 
%AKIN&. YOU'RE: 13£/N& V£RY 
iRR£~PON~IBl.t. 
H€Ufl 1 H€U.O _7 I 
-~ 
~~'\"~~~ 
Campus
Berke Breathed 
•1:
15 p.m. -Physics Lecture, "The Future of Monopoles," Dr. Chris Hall, 401 NSH 

•3 
· 6 p.m. -Seminar, Ivan Mestrovic: 1883­1962, A Centenial Seminar, Annenberg Auditorium 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Women vs. St. Francis, Courtney Courts 

•4:30 
p.m. -Army ROTC Spring Awards, Library Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Nonsimply Con­nected Theory," Prof. Michael H. Freedman, 226 ­CCMB 

•6 
p.m. -Sigma XI, ND Chapter Meeting, FacultyDining Room, 2nd Floor South Dining Hall 

•6:30 
p.m. -AIESEC Meeting, Little Theatre 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "The Kids Are All Right," Chautauqua Coffeehouse, Sponsored by NDSU, 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "The World According to Garp," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Water Polo Club, S1 

•7, 
8:45 and 10:30 p.m.-Film, "Dr. Strangelove," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Coali­tion for Peace, Free 

•7:30 
p.m.-Concert, Ronnie Milsap, ACC, S9.50 and $10.50 

•s 
p.m. -Mestrovic Seminar, "A Reading ofThe Battle ofKossovo: A Serbian Epic Poem," Prof. John Matthias, and Prof. Vladeta Vuckovic, Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, SMC Spring Choral Concert, Little Theatre 


T.V. onight 
8p.m. 16 Gimme A Break 22 Simon and Simon 28 Too Close for Comfort 34 Mystery 
8:30p.m. 16 Cheers 28 It Takes Two 
9p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 I Claudius 
10p.m. 16 NewsCemer 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
11:30p.m. 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
The Far Side 
OI<AY. BINKu;Y... HEY 1 WHOI\l (..10HT UP NOOOI7Y Hf.RE. 
1HRT £N17... BUf us 
fl.AMMABI.£I FR00S.' 
.\\' 
Jeb Cashin 
Fate 
HEY MAN, DC THE WO~LD A FAVOR AND VCTI IN 
Tltr'.DAY. MAYC<'AL PRIMP·<Y 

WHO DO YOU THINK YOU AKt-MR MODE:'L CiT/2.017 
I 
The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Wednesday's Solution 
4/28/83 
Photius 
... 

ACROSS 1 Warmth 5 Basketball 
player 1 0 Bill notation 14 City on the Tiber 15 Paris 
farewell 16 Actor Ray 17 Frosted 18 People to 
emulate 20 Broken-down 
horse 21 Field: pref. 22 Member of 
Indian sect 23 Famous collie 25 Center 


26 CIA fore· 
runner 27 Drummers 31 Lacking 
helpers 35 Chopper 36 Injure 37 Neckline 
style 38 Arabian prince 39 Women's 
cause 40 Yam 44 Best 
athletes 46 Over there 47 Many: pref. 48 Substitute 51 General 
J. E. B. ­54 Bed support 

55 Pt. of army dlv. 
57 Discussion after an event 
59 Rum cake 60-fixe (obsession) 61 Mother-In· law of Ruth 62 Israeli 
seaport 63 Drops off 64 Not flighty 65 Actual 
DOWN 
1 Toothy smile 2 Kind of 
train 3 Alpha to­4 Attach 
firmly 5 Good-sized 6 Worship 7 Metric 
weight 8 Shoewidth 9 LeoMcKern 
TV role 10 Army chaplains 11 Malt 
liquors 12 Unused 13 Measured 
amount 19 Fitted for rowing 
21 Helper: abbr. 24 Arrange 25 West 
Pointer 27 Knives, 
old style 28 Parent 29 Way out 30-Wolfe 31 Home of 
the Jets 32 Fling 33 Spoken 34 Artist 
Milton Clark­38 Italian 
volcano 40 Attack 41 John Boy's 
family 42 Giza landmark 43 Painter 
Jacob van­45 Outpourings 48 Fragrant 
resin 49 Vestige 50 Horselike 
animal 51 Short ride 52 Agitation 53 Exploited 54 Greek 
portico 56 Scotsman 58 Hamelin 
pest 59 Saloon 
• 


Thursday, April28, 1983-page 12 
Two goals met 
Offensive unit makes progress 
ByTHERON ROBERTS -Hudson points out that injuries having 47 carries in the first three? Sports Writer during the · season could test the Hudson attributes changes in depth that many people say the Irish game plan from week to week as the 
Going into spring drills, offensive have. cause ofthat disparity. coordinator Ron Hudson had two "There is always going to be an in­"The teams we played took it (a major goals for his offensive unit. jury factor that requires a team to be part of the offense) away, so we had 
"The two things we felt that we at least two players deep in every to do something else," Hudson ex­really needed to do in the spring position and be three deep at the plains. "If we execute the plays were to get the players to really un­~kill positions. called for in the game plan, we can derstand our offense and do a good move the football against the best job with it," says Hudson. "Also, teams." from a coaching standpoint, to be Spring Football '83 What about the many passes com­
consistent with the things that pleted for gains offive yards or less? Coach Faust wants." "We have been working on inter­mediate and longer pass routes, as
Even though Hudson terms the "I don't anticipate that we will be evidenced by last Saturday'swork of the offensive unit in the platooning our running backs unless scrimmage, and I am pleased withspring as a success, he still sees a things change in the fall," notes Hud· the progress of Blair ( Kiel) and thelittle improvement possible in the son. "Right now we would like to be receivers.
fall. 
at least as deep as we are in the back­
The Irish offense has a chance to
"We will be trying to solidify our field. 
look at its capabilities in Saturday's
passing game and simplify our pass Last year, the Notre Dame offense 
Blue-Gold game, Notre Dame foot­
patterns to benefit our receivers and at times could be described as in· 
ball's spring showcase.
quarterbacks." 
consistent and sputtering, as it could
... "I hope we can move the ball well 
A rash of injuries in the last two only manage two touchdowns total 
enough to win, and end the spring in
weeks have put a damper on the in the three games against Michigan 
a positive way," Hudson said joking­
major accomplishments of the State, Miami and Arizona. 
ly.
spring. 
Another oft-raised criticism of theAlthough quick tackle Mike offense in 1982 was that the IrishShiner's ankle has healed, and he is 
coaching staff was too conservative Rival to networks 
ready to play, quick guard Tim Scan­and predictable in calling plays ­nell and strong guard Mike Perrino the case of Carter, Hunter, then are still sidelined and will not suit up 
bring on the punter, as one Observer 
WTBS changing face of TV sports 
for the Blue-Gold game on Saturday. 
writer put it.
Tight end Brian Behmer jammed his What about fullback Larry Editor's note: This is the first of a co sports. there's another player on the field."' 
neck in practice yesterday but Moriarity? Why did he rush only 41 two-part series on the impact of Turner Broadcasting recently dis­Wussler believes the probably will play. 
times in· the last eight games after cable television on college sports. played its increasing influence in the Georgetown-Virginia venture was 
media when WTBS snatched the profitable not only to WTBS, which By MARY SIEGER coverage of the Dec. 17, 1982 earned a 9.4 national rating on the Sports Writer Georgetown-Virginia basketball game, but also to the universities. 
game from CBS. Wussler sees a bright future for Sports and television coverage go Since the two teams do not meet cable television in collegiate ath­together like pizza and beeror Notre regularly, the schools wanted the letics, especially football. He Dame and football. In the past, the game to be held early in the season. believes that cable television will aid 
Tennis team concludes 
schedule with victory 
networks have dominated the CBS, however, wanted to postpone various athletic programs in dif­coverage of major sports events. the game until later in the season -ferent ways. "There is going to bematch winning streak with the vic·
By MARK B.JOHNSON 
Now, thanks to the development of an idea the schools resisted. WTBS lots ofmoney out there for some col­
Sports Writer tory over the Falcons. The team's 
sophisticated communications won the right to cover the game by leges and they will have to budgetpeak came just in time for the end of satellites, a rival to the networks has accomodating the schools and their football programs," predictsCoachTom Fallon's men's t tennis the season, and the players are appeared on the field -cable televi­agreeing to broadcast the game on Wussler. 
team ended its regular season in hoping to carry it through the Mid­sion. the scheduled date. Wussler believes that a school'sstyle yesterday afternoon under sun­western Cities Conference cham­Atlanta-based Turner Broadcast­Executives at WTBS regard the consistency on the field willny skies at Courtney Tennis Center pionships at Evansville. 
ing, which owns and operates the Georgetown-Virginia game as a tur­determine the amount of money it .s the Irish dominated their Bowling Senior captain Mark McMahon Cable News Network, Cable News ning point in the expansion ofcable receives from television. "If a teamGreen guests, 7-2, to finish with an won his sixth straight at No. 1 for a Network-2, and WTBS, Superstation television in collegiate sports. has a couple of bad seasons in theoverall 23-9 record before this 20-5 record as he easily downed Fal­17, is one ofthe most famous and in­Robert Wussler, executive vice­future, it will affect them for the nextweekend's conference champion­con Gary Conlon, 6-4, 6-2, while fluential cable companies in president of Turner Broadcasting, four or five years," comments Wus­ships. sophomore John Novatny, playing America. WTBS, which markets it­believes the game "put us in the big sler.
Finishing the regular season on a self as "America's favorite nework," league ofsports. It said to promoters
See TENNIS, page 10 See CABLE, page 8
high note, the Irish completed a six· devotes over halfofits programming and other networks, 'OK, you guys, 

• 
Several ND players get ready to take on the pros 
Bills pick Hunter in first, Bears goof, pick Thayer say he'll be next Winslow after he signs with Blitz 
By MIKE RICCARDI ByJANE HEALEY 
Sports Editor Assistant Sports Editor 
Tony Hunter, who never quite grew comfortable enough at Notre "It was an honest mistake," was what General Manager Jim Finks Dame to become the superstar recruiters thought he would be, had said about it. His team, the Chicago Bears, had just drafted Tom his talent re-endorsed Tuesday as the Buffalo Bills made him their Thayer of Notre Dame in the fourth round of the NFL draft. But, first-round selection, the 12th overall pick in the entire National Thayer had signed a three-year contract with the Chicago Blitz only Football League draft. hours earlier. Hunter, who played three different positions in the span of three "We had no idea he had signed," Finks said. "To be honest with weeks, will most definitely be a tight end in Bills coach Kay Stephen­you, we didn't even consider it."
1st round/12th player chosen 
son's offensive framework. Thayer was surprised by the Bears' reaction. "I was shocked "We were quite surprised to see that Tony was still available," said Buffalo Bills (about being drafted by the Bears)," he said. "I thought my agent Stephenson. "We had him rated as the fourth best player in the draft, 
(Robert Bennett) had told the NFL people I was signing with the behind Oohn) Elway, (Eric) Dickerson and (Curt) Warner." 
Blitz. I don't want any hard feeling between myself and the Bears." The native of Cincinnati had originally wished to be drafted by a 
On the other side of town, the Blitz were relishing the flx that the w:l!'m-weather team (he had been rumored to be going to the Los Bears were in. 
Angeles Rams until L.A. traded up in the draft), but expressed "No, Bennett did not tell the NFL that Tom had signed with us," pleasure at being selected by the Bills. Bruce Allen, the Blitz's general manager said. "Let's just say that I like "I met Coach Kay Stephenson at a scouting combine:: in Seattle," 
to watch things happen. The NFL tries to get every edge it can on us." said Hunter. "He told me that if they took me, they'd be putting the Allen's father, former NFL coach George Allen who is now the ball up quite a bit more." Buffalo's attack had keyed in its recent coach of the Blitz, decided to announce Thayer's signing at a press years on running backJoe Cribbs. conference on the day that the world should be watching the NFL. "(Stephenson) said that they needed a tight end who could go His intent was to steal a little thunder for the USFL. deep and take the pressure offtheir wide receivers." "I don't care what the NFL thinks," said Allen. "If I could find an­The intermittent position switches for the 6-5, 225-lb. receiver other player like Tom Thayer, I'd do the same thing all over again." led to an unsettled four years with the Irish. Touted as Notre Dame's 
The 6-5, 268-pound Thayer played guard and center for Notre best offensive athlete by Head Coach Gerry Faust and Offensive Dame last year. Coach Allen said that Thayer will resume either of 
See HUNTER, page 9 See THA\'ER, page 9 








