• • • Kissing record-page 4 

VOL. XVII, NO. 98 the independelll ~tlllll"nt nl"\\~paper ~erving notre dame and ~aim man··~ WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16,1983 

WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan gave his first public blessing to a multibillion package of emer· gency jobs and recession relief yes­terday, as Republicans moved to protect their party's S4.3 billion 
program from Democratic "tinkering." 
Reagan conferred with Republican congressional leaders, who then cautioned that adding . provisions opposed by the president -and more spending -could sink the entire effort to pass emergency jobs legislation quickly. 
The House Republican leader, Robert Michel of Illinois, said the GOP program could could provide the first of "several hundred thousand jobs" by this spring. 
"We must resist build-on, pump­up, Christmas-tree" legislation, said Senate Majority Leader Howard H. Baker Jr. of Tennessee, who told
showed up ar the employment office, many of 
reporters that departing from what
them vaulting counters and climbing desks to get 
Reagan sees as "socially useful
applications. (AP Photo) · 
jobs ...would sabotage the 
package." 
HPC warns campus lottery threat is real 
By MIKE KRISKO 
News Staff 
HPC President Mike McAulifte, warning that the threat of a housing lottery is real, last night encouraged students who are considering moving off-campus to attend an in­formative open house for them next Thursday in LaFortune. 
McAuliffe made the comments at the Hall Presidents Council meeting, after hearing the Student Govern­ment's Housing Commissioner, Jorge Valencia, announce that Direc­tor of Student Residences Father Michael .J. Heppen has cancelled "the forfeiture of room deposit and the SI50.00 fine for any on cam­mpus student who returned a valid contract and who decides now to move off campus. The only provi­sion is that the Office of Student 
Residences must be notified of such a change by March 30, 19H3. After March 30, the forfeiture of the deposit and the S I 50.00 tine will be enforced," he said. 
Copies of Heppen's letter were placed in campus dormitories over the weekend. 
Valencia indicated that not as many seniors are planning to move oft'-campus as had been expected. A~ a result, student~ who were con· templating moving off-campus are again given the option to move. Valencia was not able to reveal precisely how many students must move oft--campus in order to avoid a lottery, but he agreed that the num­ber is large. 
Heppen, however, was quoted in Monday's Obsen•er saying that "approximately 200 men and 75 women . :.would have to decide to 

Soph., junior officers elected at Saint Mary~ 
By ANNE MONASTYRSKI 
Campus Campaign Reporter 

Michelle Manion, Maureen Karnatz, Patty Nolan and Janet Saas were elected junior class officers in Saint Mary's runoft· elections yesterday, defeating the ticket of Cara HagemaIn, Michelle Lopez, Mary Ann Potter and Martha .Jones in what Manion called "such a close race." 
.Julie Harmon, Mary Sauer, Theresa Hardy and Janet Siegel were elected sophomore class officers. The Harmon ticket defeated the ticket of Anne :\tarie Kollman, Sheila Flood, Gretchen Wroblewski ami Kathi Hartweget'. The Saint Mary's Election Committee would not release any figures concerning the election. 
"We're going to put all our effort into our class." Manion said about her ticket's new post. Manion's priorities as president of the junior class are to "push.Junior Disorientation Week," and to work to improve Junior Mother's Weekend, she said. 
Harmon said her ticket is "excited to get going. We hope to ac· complish all our ideas and to do the job the ones who elected us expect us to do," said Harmon. 
The runoff was held because none of the ticket~ received the majority needed in last Thursday's election. 
move offcampus in order to avoid a tion, Ray Wise, Valencia announced lottery." that there will be an open house for 
"There have been many warnings students considering moving off­in the past, but this time there is a campus next Thursday from noon real chance for a lottery," em­until tlve in the LaFortune Student 
phasized McAuliffe. "I'm afraid that Center. not enough students are taking this Landlords from various housing seriously," he said. complexes, including the Campus Reading a letter from the Student Government Director of lntorma-See LOTTERY, page 3 



Reagan supports GOP's jobs bill 
The Democrats, said House Majority LeaderJim Wright ofTexas, "have no intention ofsabotaging the package." 
House Democratic leaders in­sisted, however, that they may want to revise the president's proposal, either by switching some of the funds from one program to another, or by increasing the overall amount. 
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D-Mass., said Monday that Democrats might want to add as much as SI billion to Reagan's 54.3 billion for summer employment, nutrition programs for women and children, and weatherizing low­income housing. 
And Democratic Party Whip Rep. Thomas Foley of Washington said White House. aides clearly under­stood that may be the case. 
Foley and White House Chief of Staff James A. Baker lll were ex­pected to meet today about specific items in the legislation. 
Baker, meanwhile, sought to dis­courage Democrats from increasing the administration's proposal by suggesting other legislation could be used later in the year to increase spending on jobs programs. 
Reagan, Baker, House Minority Leader Robert Michel oflllinois, and other Republican congressional leaders met for more than one hour with Reagan, who told. the group that he hoped "we can pass on a bi­partisan basis a bill that does not contain any make-work jobs but does provide on an emergency basis real jobs and on a one-time basis 
See REAGAN, page 5 

In Latin America 

Renovated Church awaits Pope 
MEXICO CITI' (AP) -A renovated Latin American Church, more sensitive to social issues and with a more disciplined clergy, awaits Pope John Paul II when he visits Central America next month. 
The visit -the pontiffs fourth to Latin America -is expected to emphasize the Church's commitment to human rights, individual liberty and spiritual freedom, a message to be repeated even more strongly when he visits his native Poland later this year. 
The message will take on special signitkance in tur­bulent Central America, where civil war and factional violence plague most countries and threaten the rest. The Church a!­most always is in­

WEDNESDAY!KIIIJ.
volved. At least half a dozen priests are 

!Brll~wro CUS
.. . . ~ 
fighting alongside guer­
rillas in El Salvador and Guatemala and five hold public oftke in Nicaragua in detlance of a papal ban on such 
activity. 
By contrast, a reawakened spirit is visible elsewhere in Latin America, where half the world's 7HO million Roman Catholics live, churchmen say. 
DuringJohn Paul's first Latin American pilgrimage ­a 19~9 trip to Mexico -he found a church deeply divided over ideological issues, experiencing growing radicalism among both priests and faithful. 
At a meeting of the Latin American Bishops Con· terence, or CELAM, in Puebla, the pope reaffirmed the Church's commitment to social justice, helping the pom and the oppressed -but ordered clergy to stay out of politics and public oftke. 
Only the Church itself has the weight and authority to push for reforms -individual clergymen do not, he said. Priests and nuns also must stay single and chaste. Abortion and artificial contraceptives are forbidden. 
John Paul's guidelines appear to have ended the crisis of the 1960s and 1970s, when dozens of priests and nuns quit to get married with or without dispensation, organized social protest movements, advocated mar­riage among the clergy and quick divorces and abortion for others. 

Since then, church conservatives have turn'ed more liberal and the hierarchy has been interceding in social issues it had ignored for centuries. The "Theology of Liberation" has lost its radical edge and become a fractured element. 
Chilean rheologist Segundo Galilea in his book Theol­ogy ofLiberation after Puebla says the movement has split at least four ways, and it persists only in a more moderate form. 
"It's the law ofthe pendulum. After an epoch ofcrisis, today we have a rebirth of mystique," the Rev. Guillermo Melguizo, Secretary General of the Colom­bian Bishops Conference, said in an interview in Bogota. 
"Maybe it is because evangelization has intensified, something the Puebla conference emphasized." said Melguizo, who keeps in close touch with the Bogota­based CELAM. 
As evidence ofchanges in the Church, Melguizo and others cite "a very notable resurgence of the priestly vocation, not only in Colombia but through Latin America" and a sharp increase in attendance at Mass. 
John Paul's March visit will include stops in Costa 
Rica, Nicaragua, Panama, El Salvador, Panama and 
Belize, followed by a visit to the impoverished Carib­
bean nation of Haiti to address a CELAM conference 
there. 
Church leaders in Central America say they ha:ve gone through considerable soul-searching in defining their role in the midst of violent change. For centuries, the Church in C<[ntral America was identified with the ruling classes.' 
Now priests have died fighting alongside rebels, and 
at least 30 church workers or members of the clergy 
See CHURCH, page 4 





ewsBrie/§ 
By The Ohserr,er and The Associated Press 
PresidentReagan will holda news conference 
tonight at 8 p.m. EST, his 16th since taking office, the White House 
announced yesterday. ABC and CBS said they would broadcast the 
news conference; NBC said it did not yet know if it would. -AP 
More than 800 people showed up at Indiana Uni­versity for free measles inoculations yesterday, the first day ofa mass immunization program prompted by an "unusual incidence" ofold­fashioned measles in Bloomington, Ind. Nancy Tardy, director ofthe IU Student Health Center, said the center detected a dozen .cases of measles over the weekend. Another two cases turned up at Bloomington Hospital. No new cases were reported yesterday. In­diana University officials decided late Monday to offer free inocula­tions in the solarium of the Indiana Memorial Union through Friday. The State Board of Health recommended mass inoculations as a precautionary measure, school officials said. "This is an unusual out­
break, even for this time of year," said Dr. Robert Hongen, health center medical director. He added that up to 20 percent of the stu­dent population, or about 6,000 people, could be at risk. "We hope we have caught it in time to prevent such high numbers," he said. In yesterday's Observer, it was reported that health officials had dis­covered that 66 percent ofthe American students and 88 percent of the foreign students at Notre Dame lack proper immunizations. The Student Health Center has announced it will be providing shots at cost for students who are not protected. -The Observer 
Indiana had the sixth highestseasonally ad­
justed jobless rate in the nation in December at 12.9 percent and is among 22 states, up from nine a year earlier, that had double-digit un~mployment in December, the Labor Department said yesterday. Indiana's jobless rate rose from 12.2 percent in December, 1981. The figures for December placed West Virginia -with a 17.8 per­cent unemployment rate -at the top ofthe list, followed by Michi­gan, 17.3 percent;, Alabama, 15.9 percent; Ohio, 14.1 percent; Tennessee, 13.3 percent; Indiana, 12.9 percent and Illinois, 12.6 per­cent. Unemployment figures for South Bend indicated a jobless rate of I 0.4 percent -AP 
The Soviet Union has fired a new intercon­
tinental ballistic missile in a test which could raise questions about 
whether Moscow is violating the unratified SALT II nuclear arms 
treaty, U.S. intelligence sources said late yesterday. Officials said a 
small, solid-fuel missile was launched Feb. 8 from Plesetsk and that 
preliminary analysis ofinformation picked up by American monitor-t 
ing equipment suggests it may have been the first successful test ofa 
second new Soviet ICBM. "It was a missile we haven't seen before," 
said one oft the sources, who spoke only on condition they not be 
named. U.S. officials confirmed last December that the Soviets had 
test-fired a medium-sized, solid-fuel ICBM. The SALT II treaty 
specifies that the Soviet Union and the United States may flight-test 
and deploy only one new type of ICBM, which must be a light one, 
according to aJuly 21, 1979. letter signed by then-Secretary ofState 
Cyrus Vance in submitting the treaty to President Carter. There was 
no formal comment from either the Defense or State departments. 
Officials cautioned against jumping to the conclusion that the 
Soviets have broken the agreement -AP 
ADetroit police officer and t<>ur employees of 
the Michigan secretary of state's office were among -t6 people in­
dicted in the breakup ofa major "steal to order" car theft ring dealing 
in 10 states, including Indiana, and Canada, ll.S. Attorney Leonard R. 
Gilman announced yesterday. Robert]. johnson. 29, a patrol oftlcer 
in Detroit's 16th Precinct, was charged with one count of mail fraud, 
three counts of interstate transportation of a stolen \Thiele and one 
count ofconspiracy to transport stolen automobile~. Gilman said 5.., 
ofthe -t6 suspects had been arrested. However. he said,john~on wa~ 
not among them "for reasons we cannot explain." Gilman said more 
than 100 vehicles valued at close to Sl milli<->n were recovered­
mostly -!-wheel-drives and late-model Cadillac~. Mercedes, Cor­
vettes, Lincolns and BMW models. The vehicles were stolen in the 
Detroit area and delivered to customers a~ far away as Opelousas and 
New Orleans, La., Oklahoma City, Tampa and Jacksonville, Ha. and 
Montreal, Gilman said. Other destinations for the hot cars included 
Cleveland, Dallas, Houston, Pittsburgh and Indianapolis, agents said. 
Approximately 25 of those indicted were charged with purchasing 
stolen vehicles, Davis said. -AP ­
"The Winds of War," ABC's $-tO million. 18-hour production about the seeds of World War ll, is the second highest rated miniseries in television history, falling only behind "Roots." The seven-night telecast, which ended Sunday. drew an average rating of 38.6 and share of 53, according to A.C. Nielsen Co. tlgures released today by ABC. "Roots," telecast by ABC in 1977, had an 
average rating of 45 and a 66 share. NBC's "Shogun," telecast in 1980, had a rating of32.6 and a share of51, dropping to third place. A rating measures the percentage ofall TV sets that are tuned in to the show, while a share reflects the percentage of sets in usc that are tuned in t to the program. Producer-director Dan Curtis spent four years and $40 million shaping Herman Wouk's "The Winds of War" into a one-week prime-time blitz, but he says it all paid off when the ratings came in. -AP 
A 50 percent chance oflight rain today and toward evening, light snow. Cool with high in upper 30s. A chance ofsnow flurries tonight and tomorrow. Low around 30 and high in mid 30s. The Observer 
Wednesday, February 16, 1983-page 2 
So long, 4077th 
On February 28, the tina! episode of M•A•s•H will be aired on CBS. This will mark the end of 11 years and more than 250 episodes ofthe show. For many, the end of M*A•s•H also signals the end ofan era. 
The continuing popularity of the show has as­tonished fans and critics alike. Few remember its early days, when the show was almost lost in the shuffling and reshuffling ofthe CBS schedule. 
Even the show's most loyal fans must agree that it is time to end the show. Good plots are becoming scarce. The storylines in recent years have become redundant and increasingly self-righteous. 
Through it all however, the ratings have remained high. Obviously, the successes of the past make up for the flaws of the present. Such loyalty would not remain for other shows. M*A*S*H has garnered a flock of fol­lowers unparalleled in television circles. 
Most present college students grew up with M*A*S*H. For the post-Vietnam generation, it is about the closest contact we have 
with any concept ofwar. 
I remember reading a column by a television critic a few years ago. He planned to watch only shows he felt were worthwhile for a week and keep track of his viewing. At the end of the week, he found his list con­sisted almost entirely of reruns ofM*A*S*H. 
I had to agree with him. After countless viewings of some episodes, I'd still rather watch a rerun of M*A*S*H than anything new on television. And I know I'm not alone. 
To what can M*A•s•H at­tribute its success? 
On the most basic level, M*A*S*H provides pure en­tertainment. Satire, slapstick and puns are the staples of the show. The laugh track is the most obvious part of the many inane sitcoms that thrive on the networks. Many longtime viewers have never noticed the un­necessary laugh track that accompanies the dialogue on M*A*S*H. 
Second, the creators of the show credit their viewers with some degree of intelligence. In the vast wasteland of television, this is a rare occurrance. We arc bom­barded nightly with the such worthless fare as "Laverne and Shirley," "Love Boat," and the classic "Dukes of Haz­zard." It is a compliment to the viewer to tirst assume he has a brain. 
M*A*S*II has become the traditional yardstick hy which to judge all other shows. It seems too easy to say to other producers: "Look, here isM*A*S*H. The show is good, the l(mnula works and people love it. Can't you come up with something like it'" Apparently not, for it 
The Observer 

nesi~n Editor. Troy "~ht· ~a1d I'm cure:" II 
Jig /)esign Assistant Caruk "givt.· me a tickt•t to London" Clark 
Lti)'OUI Stajf Maurn·n "my throat hurt~" Burkl· 
1)·pesellers ....... lkggit: "\X-'S~ f) 1~ great·· 
Damt:l 
Tom "I l·an do anythmg you tell nw" .\llacl.ennan .-\"eu•s Editor.. ........ Mr :\1ark "~In··~ gUJII~" \X."or:-.<.:heh Copl' J:.'ditorl>iant.· "~t:nd me a v.tlentirw" D1rker!'o 
Features l.t~l'OU/ ... Sar~lh "h'~ not my fault I'm :-.ic~" Hamilton 
l:"ditorialsl.al'OUt .... Tim "llovt.· tht·Oh sert'er" Ncdy \"port..:; Copy Editor .. <:ltrh "pit.'aM..' ahu~t.· me'~ Needle~ 
!\'/) n,~l' Editor.Jant: "Ohsert'£'1', can I hdp 
you?" Parltil 
S.'HC /Ja)' Editor. ..Tim ''It'..., londy ovt-r 
ht.·re" Pcrtcr!'o 1)•pists Marc "dHJckk, chuckle" Hamirt.·z Ad Design ............ Marilyn (I think) Larkin Photographer Eli "lldt at I(UO" Carroll Guest Appearances Love's Themt:; Dave: 
"1 don't do drug~" Robmson; Who are the half point?; Who's wearing the one point': Thanks l(>r letting me leave Troy": I love teddybears; · 
Dougie, send u l 1aleutinel 
The Observer (USPS 598 9201 ts publtshed Monday through Frtday and on home football Saturdays except durtng exam and vacalton penods The Observer 15 publtshed by lhe students ol Notre Dame and Satnt Marys Col~ lege Subscnpttons may be purchased lor $25 per year IS.t 5 per seme&ter) by wnllng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lndtana 46556 
The Observer ts a member of The Associated Press All reproductton rtghts are reserved 
Second class postage patd al Notre Dame. lndtana 46556 

Margaret Fosmoe 
Saint Mary's Exec. Editor 
Inside Wednesday 

has been attempted, but never with the same degree of success. M*A•s•H remains the show to top in the busi­ness. Yet, year after year the networks continue to pour out the same banal fare. 
The most credible part of the show is its accurate portrayal of human experiences. The characters are complex and believable. We grew to know tht:m and to care what happened to them. We identitled with the characters -we have all met the Frank Burns's, the Charles Emerson Winchester's and the Colonel Flagg's 
mand respect. 
Perhaps the saddest part ofthe end ofthe series is the void it will leave behind. CBS used to be known for its so-called "quality" programming-meaning CBS didn't sink to quite the levels of the other two networks. Today, while NBC is striving for some degree of excel­lence, CBS is the home of some of television's worst: ''Filthy Rich," and "The Jeffersons" -not to mention their friday evening lineup. 
CBS already is planning a spinott' of M*A•s• H, to fol­low the post-war exploits ofColonel Potter, Klinger and Father Mulcahy. Is there life after Korea without Haw­keye? To true M*A*S*JI fans, this venture may sound about as unlikely as a sequel to Gone with the Wind. 
I I 

of the world. 
Even the heroes of the show had their flaws, making them all the more human. Hawkeye and his sidekicks were far from per­fect, but admirable nonethe­less. Margaret blossomed into a mature and independ­ent -but still vulnerable ­career woman. The war marked the threshhold of 
maturity for Radar. Klingc;r's 
eccentricities made us ques­
tion our own notion of 
"normal" at times. And 
M*A*S*H showed us that it 
is possible to be a nice guy 
-Henry Blake, Colonel Pot­
ter, Father Mulcahy, Sidney 
Freedman -and still com­

~*********************************:IiiiJALOiiS: I 18LBS. : THANKS TO NUTRI/SYSTEM, AND ** ALMOST 15 INCHES FROM MY* WAIST, HIPS AND BUST!" * : "This weight loss is the end of a really long struggle ** for me. Iweigh just what Iwant to, I'm wearing size** 7 clothes and Ifeel terrific I Nutri/System made it all ** possible-and they taught me how to keep my weight* off without any trouble. Ihaven't put back a pound * * in over a yearl" * ** "NUTRI/SYSTEM, I RECOMMEND ** YOU TO EVERYONE!"* No diet pills, no injections ** Medically supervised ** No starvation or food decisions ** •Wide choice of delicious Nutri/System meals ** Mistake-proof food plan, no constant calorie-counting ** •Nutri/System guarantee: Follow the Nutri/System ** program and lose weight quickly, often up to a ** pound a day. Achieve your goal by the date speci­** tied, or pay no additional charges for Nutri/System ** services until you do. * * CALL TODAY FOR A FREE, NO-OBLIGATION CONSULTATION. * i. ~r:l•imnn;:~®_ !* "' -weight loss medical centers ...=.. * * u ' * ~ ; LOSE 20 POUNDS FOR $89.00 :* ~ One per customer CALL * * ~ Cost of exam not included. 256-5678 * f ~ Offer expires Feb. 28, 1983 l******* As people vary, so do their weight losses. *******!:  

( 
The Observer Wednesday, February 16, 1983--page 3 
'acelebration of literature' 

Soph. Lit. Festival begins Sunday 

By GRETCHEN PICHLER 
News Staff 
Novelists, short story writers and poets -including a 1966 Notre Dame graduate -will be on campus beginning Sunday for the annual Sophomore Literary Festival. The week-long festival presents a well­known contemporary author each day for afternoon workshops in the lih~ary lounge and readings at ...,:30 
p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The festival is sponsored primari­
lv bv donations and the Student Uni-u"n. -Past speakers have included 
The last speaker of the festival is Tony Harrison, dubbt·d "the white hope of English poetry" by editor and critic David Wright. His poetry is collected in Continuous, Earthu•orks, and .Veu•castle Is Penz. Harrison has taught at Charles Uni­versity in Prague, and Ahmadu Bello l iniversity in Zaria, Northern Al­geria. He became the Resident Dramatist at the National Theatre in London, and has received the Chol­mondeley Award, the faber Memorial Award, and is a two-time recipient of the Northern Arts Fel­lowship. 
Ex-prison warden will reflect on 'Brubaker' career 
By CECILIA LUCERO confinement at Cummins uncon­
-"'NOI'llfan-M"a1iff.1CUrT'\'onnt'gut,-wiT----7?mjfR-eportPr--------.-----·--·-----stitttti<ma:lcAilflmtgh-therulin~ vi:nd--­
liam F. Buckley, and Tennessee Wil-Iiams. 
This is the 15th Sophomore Literary Festival, which is brought to the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­
munity annually for the students' en­joyment, says sophomore Brian Ulicny, the organizer ofthe 1983 fes­tival. "It is a celebration ofliterature." 
The week-long event will be openedbynoveliMandshortMory writer Susan Sontag. Her essays have been published in the book Against Interpretation, and two novels ­The Benefactor and Death Kit -ex­pand on her philosophy of aes­thetics. A I 9...,8 winner of the National Boob Critics Circle award, the New York City native has studied at the llniversity of Chicago and Harvard l'niversity. \1ary Robison, Monday's speaker, has had short stories print<:d in The Nell' Yorker, as well as the Enquirer. ller short story "Coach" wa~ selected to he in the 1982 edition of 
The Best American Short Stories .. 
The third speaker is naturalist Bar­ry Lopez, a graduate of Notre Damt·. His most popular work, Of Wolves and Men, won the John Burrough's Medal for distinguished natural his­tory writing. The novel also won the Pacific Northwestern Booksellers Award t<>r excellence in non-tlction. 
Wednesday brings Richard Brautigan, whose novels draw from both the beat movement of the 1950's and the youth revolution of the 1960's. His second novel, Trout 
Fishing in America, made him a cult figure for remnants of the love generation. His other works include In Watermelon Sugar and The Tokyo Montana Express, his latest. 
The son of an Irish Catholic bar­tender, Jim Carroll spent his youth hustling a drug habit while playing basketball to preserve his sanity. Basketball Diaries, the journal he kept during this time, has been ex­cerpted in theParis Review and also won the Random House Young Writers Aw~d in 1970. Carroll will discuss this journal and another work -Organic Trains, and Four Days ofUps and Downs -at his ap­pearance Thursday. 
The sixth speaker, Larry Wiowode, is a novelist, poet, and reviewer. He has written three novels and one book of poetry, and has had over two dozen short stories printed in The New Yorker. His novel What I'm Going to Do. 1 Think won the William Faulkner l'ountiation Av. anl tor best tlrst novel in 1969 and has been published in foreign periodicals in Russia and Poland. 
..­Tom Murton, the controversial 
prison reformer and penologist, will 
open a series of lectures tomorrow 
night at 8:30 at the Center for Social 
Concerns. Murton, 52, will discuss 
"The Future of the Penal System" 
and reflect on his career as a prison 
warden, as portrayed in the movie 
Brubaker. 
Theillm,M~ringRohertRedfur~ 

depicts Murton's unorthodox ap­
proach in reforming a corrupt 
Arkansas prison system during the 
late 1960s. 
Hired in 1967 by the late Arkansas 

governor, Winthrop Rockefeller, 
:\-lurton employed hi~ "quasi­
democratic" methods of reform to 
clean up the abuses at the Tucker 
Prison Farm. In January 196H. he 
transferred to Cummins State 
Prison, Tucker's parent institution. 
Three weeks after his transfer, 

:\-turton, against the governor's or­
ders, uncovered three skeletons of 
prisoners that apparently had been 
murdered and buried in unmarked 
graves. Murton invited television 
crews and reporters to witness the 
unveiling of a world-wide scandal 
brewing within the state's penal sys­
tem. 
After state officials threatened to 

indict Murton tor graverobbing, 
Rockefeller tired Murton and asked 
him to leave rhe state. 
In 1970, an unprecedented deci­

sion by the Supreme Court declared kated Murton, he has been denied positions in penal systems ever since 
his dismissal from the Arkansas Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, responded to prison. questions concerning a variety of topics last night in Morrissey Murton holds four college 
Hall. Students questioned Hesburgh about the death of varsity 
degrees, including a doctorate in 
hockey and the lack of social space on campus. Hesburgh also 
Criminology from Berkeley. He is 
emphasized the value ofa liberal education, a topic about which he 
also the author of Accomplices to 
will lecture tonight at 9 in the Annenberg Auditorium. (Photo by
the Crime and The Dilemna of 
Ed Carroll)
Prison Reform. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~­
continuedfrom page I 
View Apartments, along with t(>rmer off-campus residents, and a repre­sentative from the police dt"part. ment will be present. Valencia asked the hall presidents to encourage their residents who are considering the move to go to the open house ami exarnine the opportunities. 
\tcAuliffe pointed out that "because so many studenb haven't moved offcampus, many prime locations are still available. It's the best time to get the choice apart­ments," he said. 
In other business, a motion to 
place the responsibility for an HPC 
anendence policy in the hands of 
the individual hall councils was 
passed unanimously. 
The council agreed to pass the responsibility tor the allocation of the S\ ,500 received from the 

Ihe ~er. is currently acceptingapplications for the following positions 
Managing editor Business manager 
Applications are due in The Observeroffices by 5 p.m. Monday, February 21. 

BEGINNER OR ADVANCED· Cost is about the same as a semester 1n a room StandardiZed tests show our students' language skills supenor 
U.S. college. $3.189. Pnce Includes 1et round tnp to Sev1lle from New to students complet1ng two year programs 1n U.S Advanced courses York, room. board. and tUitiOn complete. Government grants and loans also available for eligible students. 
Hurry, tl takes a lot of t1me to make all arrangements. L1ve w1th a Spamsh fam1ly, attend classes four hours a day, four days a SPRING SEMESTER-Feb 1 ·June 1I FALL SEMESTER-Sept. 10 · week. four months Earn 16 hrs of credtl (eQUivalent to 4 semesters· Dec 22 each year taught 1n U.S colleges over a two year t1me span). Your Spamsh FULLY ACCREDITED -A program of TnMy Chnst1an College studies wtll be enhanced by opportuntttes not avatlable m aU S class· 


SEMESTER IN SPAIN 
For full information-write to: 

2442 E. Collier S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 (A Program of Trinity Christian College) 
• • • Lottery 

Budget Committee to the incoming hall presidents. 
Howard Hall President Tim Con­nolly reported that last l'ridav's "A Chance to Dance" took in S-t~O.OO, and that aftn deducting expenses, the entire program will have taken in approximately s1,000 to date. 
The council agreed to examine Student St·nate Resolution I I~ which asks the l'niversity to install sidewalks at selected sites, to main­tain lights, to maintain or take out cable fences, to improve drainage in certain areas, and to fix the potholes. The resolution will be discussed at the next meeting. 
finally, Keenan Hall President and SBP-elect Brian Callaghan an­nounced that applications for next year's student government cabinet posts will he available next week. "Any freshman. sophomore. or junior who has the time and the in­terest should apply," he said. 

f"'...-....ATIENTIO'NJUNIO'RS..........­
1 

==I ·==
Junior parents weekend registration in LaFortune 
1 Thurs.Feb17I Fri. Feb 18 12 noon-9:00pm 1 1 (moved to Century Center dance) : 
1 9:00 pm -12:00 am 1 
l ~------------------------------7:00-10:00pm I 1 -I 
1 

Sat. Feb 19 9:00am-12 noon • 

1-----------------------------~ 
Packet may be picked up by 
I 

either student or parent i 
lllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIHIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMI.IIHIIII..........IIHIHIIIIIIII~ 
REV. TttEODOKE ttE.SDt.JRQtt C.J.C. 
..THE V~Lt.JE Of A LIDER~L ~KTJ EDt.JC~TION .. 
sponsored by 

The Arts and Letters 


Student Advisory Council 
ANNCNBrl!6 AUDITOI!IUM SNITr MUSrUM Of AIH UNIVCI!SITl' or NOTI!C DAM[ 


'P' 
The Observer 


Deno DeLorean and Barbara Kane share a hug as they set the kissing record in Los Angeles Monday afternoon. The couple broke the record for the Guiness Book of World Records for the longest kiss lasting five days and 12 hours. The two-some set a record of their own with 144 hours of smacking, or six days. (AP Photo) 
Applications are now available for Student Government Judicial Coordinator, at the Student Government offices. 
Questions contact Kevin Stierer 239-6778 
f 
~ 





1!df))alj(Jrl
f 

with special guest 
RED RIDER 
Saturday, Feb. 19 8 PM Notre Dame A.C. C. 
All seats reserved: $11.50 & $10.50 
Tickets now available at A.C.C. Box office only. Tickets on sale Tuesday at A.C. C. Box Office, Sears (University Park Mall, Orchard mall, Pierre Moran Mall, & the Catalogue Store), Robertson's (South Bend & Concord Mall), St. Joe Bank (main branch), The Elkhart Truth J.R.'s (La Port), and World Records (Goshen). 
Wednesday, February 16, 1983-page 4 
Seek resolution on peace 


PLO to decide on Reagan plan 
ALGIERS, Algeria (AP)-One of Vasser Arafat's chief aides said yes­terday that the Palestinian exile par­liament will adopt a "clear-cut resolution" on President Reagan's Middle East peace initiative at its meeting this week. 
Abu jihad, Arafat's deputy military commander in the Farah guerrilla or­ganization, refused to elaborate. But Ahmed Abdel Rahman. the Palestine Liberation Organization's chief spokesman and one of PLO chair­man Arafat's closest aides, said at a news conference: "The Reagan plan has definitely not been rejected out­right." 
The 400-member Palestine Na­tional Council opened a week-long session Monday to consider various Middle East proposals, and Arafat's said they felt contldent their views would gain support. 
He told reporters that Jebril "openly defied" Arafat on tlve main issues: 
• 
Arafat's acceptance of the peace plan adopted by Arab leaders in Fez, Morocco, last September, callingfor peaceful coexistence between Israel and the Arab states including a sovereign, PLO-ruled Palestine. 

• 
Arafat's refusal to reject Reagan's peace plan calling for Palestinian "self-government" in association with jordan. 

• 
Arafat's willingness for King Hus­sein to open peace talks with Israel without a PLO delegation and to en­visage confederation between jor­dan and an Arab Palestine. 


• 
Arafat's willingness to establish relations with "democratic and progressive forces" within Israel including Zionist groups recogniz­ing the PLO as the "sole legitimate representative" of the Palestinian people. 

• 
Arafat's effort to bring Egypt back into the Arab League from which it was expelled in 1979 for signing the Camp David peace agreement with Israel. 


Shrourou claimed the Syrianinfluenced leaders ofthe Saiqa guerrilla organization and the "Arab struggle front" sided withjebril. 
But Abu Jihad predicted that the council's final communique, ex­pected next weekend, "will be an embodiment of national unity." 
moderate majority clashed openly and acrimoniously on the sidelines 


Prof. predicts robots
with a Moscow-influenced, hard­line minority oppoSed to peace moves through jordan's King Hus­

will replace workers
sein. But the pragmatic approach of 
the PLO chiefwas virtually certain of overwhelming support. 
Abu jihad and Abdel Rahman ack­nowledged that there were sharp differences among the PLO leaders, but Abdel Rahman told reporters these "are being narrowed, and the council's resolutions committee is drafting compromise wording that will unite all ranks of the Palestinian revolution." 
Leading the fight against Arafat was Ahmed jebril, head of the Syrian-based Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command. His chief spokesman, Fadel Shrourou, admitted the hardliners were a small minority but 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) ­Factories of the future won't need many blue collar workers, and those who remain will be repairing and maintaining robots and machines that do their current jobs, a Purdue 
University professor says. 
Future industrial workers "will have a very good job," says Gavriel Salvendy, professor of industrial engineering. "Given another 30 years or so, the blue-collar worker will pretty much disappear." 
By then, factories will be made up ofnumerous manufacturing systems that will include up to a dozen "intelligent machines" such as 


Eastern Airlines 727 makes belly landing 
MIAMI (AP) -An airliner carry­
ing 6 7 passengers and seven crew 
members made a successful emer­
gency belly landing on a runway last 
night after its landing gear failed to 
retract fully after takeoff. 
Seven people suffered minor in­
juries, and there was some damage 
to the Boeing 727. 
"It made a belly landing," Eastern Airlines spokesman jim Ashlock said after the Boeing 727 touched down at about 8:30p.m. at Miami t Interna­tional Airport. "He pulled all of his gear up and slid her in on her tummy -her belly." 
Eastern Flight 194 slid to a safe stop on Runway 9R, sparks flying, as emergency equipment stood by. The plane was then sprayed with foam as a fire prevention. 
The passengers, red-faced but smiling, left the plane by its emer­gency chutes and were taken to the airport terminal by three buses and moved into a private lounge by East­ern personnel. 
"1 was crying," said second-grader jena Cohen of New York City. "I really hated it because 1 was scared something would happen to the plane; that we might get hurt." Her mother, Ronnie Cohen, 33, said her 4-year-old daughter Brett slept through most ofthe landing. 
Florence Costello, of Cold Spring 
Harbor, N.Y., said she scraped her 
hands and knees jumping off the 
plane's wing. She said another pas­
senger also suffered similar injuries. 
"There was a lot of apprehen­sion," said Steve Albrecht, 29, of Boca Raton. "People didn't like the idea ofa crash landing. 
"Afterward, it wa!\, incredible. Everybody on the bus was hugging everybody. When we got off the plane we went into the field. All you could hear was people on the side streets clapping." 
"It was a smooth landing, believe it or not," one young woman said. 
Another man added, "They told us everything we needed to know, and they were super." 
Gail Nemec, of West Palm Beach, who was headed to New York for meetings, said "It was very orderly." 
"I never thought an emergency landing would be that smooth," she said. "We were aware the whole time. Eatern told us exactly what was going on. There was no panic. It was marvelous." 
Earlier, the 727 had circled as offi­cials prepared the runway, which runs along the Dolphin Expressway, for the landing. 
continued from page 1 
have been murdered by rightist death squads in the past five years, including four American women and El Salvador's Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero. Romero was assas­sinated as he celebrated Mass in San Salvador in March 1980. 
But a majority are preaching peace, regularly speaking out against torture, killings and other abuses and condemning violence by both rightists and leftists. 
The revival appears strongest in countries like Argentina, where people widely believe the pope helped end the Falklands war with Britain when he made a quick trip there last june. His mediation al'>o is credited with helping avoid war be­tween Argentina and Chile. 
Argentine churches, almost empty five years ago, now fill up regularly for Mass. A single priest was ordained in 1975. compared with 19 in 1982 and 23 expected this year, and the number of semi­narians is growing. 
robots and other programmable devices, Salvendy predicts. 
Those machines will be capable of performing a variety ofjobs blue col­lar workers now do -machining, painting, welding and assembling, he says. 
A computer network will link the intelligent machines to each other and to other similar systems. A central computer will control the entire operation. 
"We visualize that the human will be sitting at the computer terminal monitoring the activities of the various machines," he says. "And the question will be, 'How much do we want to allow the human to impact on the system operation?' 
"Ifwe give too little responsibility to the operator, he is bored. His productivity is low. But if we give the operator too much respon­sibility, we overload his information-processing capability and he will make errors because he has too much load. If an emergency occurs, he can't deal with it." 
In addition to being bored or overloaded with information, the worker also may suffer from loneli­ness because he will work in isola­tion at a computer terminal, Salvendy says, adding, "Many people like their jobs because of the social interaction." 
Nevertheless, Salvendy, who also ischairman ofthe Human Factors In­terdisciplinary Graduate Program at Purdue, says the new science of job design must evolve in the next few years to prevent chaos in the fac­tories ofthe 21st century. 

• • • Church 
In Brazil, the world's largest Roman Catholic nation, Cardinal Paul Evaristo Arns of Sao Paulo has been helping church authorities in Argentina pressure that country's military regime to disclose the fate of 14,000 persons who "disappeared" and are feared killed. 
Cardinal Eugenio Sales of Rio de janeiro has been defending Brazilian prisoners against brutality. Fellow prelates speak out against laws ban­ning labor strikes. 
Although not very forceful in its pronouncements, the church is about the only opposition to abuses in Paraguay, ruled by Gen. Alfredo Stroessner since 1954. 
In Chile, leftists accuse the church 

of nor speaking out strongly enough 
for a return to democracy while con­
servatives accuse it of meddling in 
politics. 
Cardinal Raul Silva Henrique calls the cntlc1sm unjustified. The Church, he says, is still "the voice of those who have no voice" under Gen. Augusto Pinochet's nine-year­old rightist dictatorship. 
--~ ~------~~------­
·-----·-------------~·-·----~--~­
The Observer Wednesday, February 16, 1983-fage 5 
Revised faculty requirements 
Canon law rewording helps ND 
By The Associated Press 
Thanks to a few re-shuffled Latin verbs, the University of Notre Dame is still a Catholic school. 
Notre Dame officials were worried after reports reached this country that revisions ofthe Code of Canon Law of the Roman Catholic Church would require all theology teachers to be Catholics and abide by church doctrine. 
But the release of the new code's text last week shows "a much more reasonable" code on colleges, uni­versities and seminaries which bends to the needs of Notre Dame and other U.S. Catholic schools, said the Rev. Richard McBrien, chairman of Notre Dame's theology depart­ment. 
Notre Dame officials have been watching the Vatican's revision process for the last two years, when word came out that early drafts of the canon laws could affect the breadth of theological philosophy taught in U.S. Catholic universities and conflict with federal regulations regarding funding. 
The controversy involved two clauses which dictated that to be designated a Catholic institution Notre Dame would have to have a 

."pontifical faculty," in which those teaching theology must have "canonical mission" granted by the "competent ecclesiastical author­ity." 
In short, it meant the local bishop would have to approve all appoint­ments of Notre Dame's theology 

Bike gangs involved in organized crime 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Outlaw motorcycle gangs have graduated from macho beer busts to sophisti­cated teams that carry out execu­tions for organized crime, infiltrate police forces and launder profits from drugs and prostitution into legitimate businesses, a Senate panel was told yesterday. 
The president of one gang, the 
Pagans, was said to be paid the same 
salary as President Reagan 
5200,000 per year. 
Two former gang chieftains, 
police officials and a prosecutor said 
the "Big Four" clubs -Hells Angels, 
Outlaws, Banditos and Pagans -are 
so rich and powerful that they are 
virtually out o{ reach of local and 
state authorities. 
Federal action, they said, is needed since gangs terrorize small­town police, use female associates to infiltrate law enforcement agencies and are almost spy-proofthemselves since they require aspiring members to commit crimes. 
"Motorcycle gangs are involved with traditional organized crime 
families such as the Mafia," Cpl. Terry Katz ofthe Maryland State Police told the Permanent Subcom­mittee on Investigations. 
He estimated the combined nationwide membership of the four gangs at 4,000, with each person un· der a club's"colors" having about 10 "associates." There are another 900 smaller U.S. outlaw gangs, Katz said. 
"The Big Four gangs operate in 
geographical territory much like the 
traditional organized crime 
families," Katz said, with the Angels 
paramount on the West Coast, the 
Banditos in the Southwest and ·south, the Outlaws in the Central states and the Pagans on the East Coast. 
Testifying behind a screen that hid them from the public, two men told of their Pagan days in the early and mid-1970s, before they became part of the federal witness protec­tion program. 
William Jackson -an assumed name -said he went from being tight end on a college football team to an outlaw biker. With the Pagans, he held the simultaneous titles ofna­tional vice president, sergeant-at­arms and enforcer. 
Pagan policy is set by the Mother Club -a board of directors -and the organization is run by a presi­dent whose salary is purposely the same as that of the president of the United States, jackson said. 

"I dealt continuously with in­dividuals who purported to be as­sociated with a New York organized crime family," he ~aid. adding that he knew of Pagan contacb with the Testa family in Philadelphia and the Gambino and Genovese families in New York. 
Jackson said that as Pagan enfor­cer, he dispatched the gang's "Black T-Shirt" hit squad at least five times to intimidate police, witnesses or prosecutors. 

faculty. Since some of Notre Dame's 
current faculty are not Catholics, 
that spelled trouble. 
The broadest interpretation ofthe draft made it possible that a Catholic university's scientific research, if considerate of such issues as abor­tion, might disqualify it from being designated Catholic, McBrien ex­plained. 
The draft "was not good law, precisely because it raises more problems than it solves," McBrien said. 
When copies ofthe published text reached South Bend, university offi­cials found a juggling of Latin verbs that softened and broadened aspects dangerous to American universities. Now, only institutions with the word "Catholic" in the name must have a "pontifical faculty," a clause which affects only The Catholic Uni­versity of America in Washington, D.C. 
"Canonical mandate" places "canonical mission" in the final text. In the most complex semantic shuffle, the word "need" in reference to needing a canonical mandate is replaced by a verb which means both "need" and "would be appropriate," McBrien said. 

Cathie Brault casts her vote in runoff t;lections yesterday in LeMans 
Each is considered a softening, he Hall, Saint Mary's. Kiley Moran looks on. For results of the election, see said. 
Anne Monastyrski's story on page 1. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 



Doctors cure deadly immunity deject 
BOSTON (AP) -For the first time, doctors have cured a deadly as­sault on the body's immune system, saving the life of a week-old baby with an experimental treatment called monoclonal antibodies. 
"We were able to stop what was clearly a fatal reaction," said Dr. Fred Rosen of Children's Hospital Medi­cal Center in Boston. 
The child developed the deadly reaction following a blood transfu­sion because ofa rare birth defect ­he had no thymus gland. 
But many other people develop the reaction, known as graft-versus­host disease, after bone marrow transplants used to treat leukemia and other diseases. Rosen said the new treatment holds great promise 

in reversing the often-fatal com­
plication in these patients. 
Rosen said that newborn Bryan Ahlers of Buffalo, N.Y., is the first patient saved from severe graft­versus-host disease with monoclonal antibodies. The ~-day­old infant was brought to the hospi­
tal last Thursday with the first stage of this disease, a lobster-red rash. 
Such a condition is grave. Or­dinarily, the victim's blood cells are damaged, and he bleeds to death. 
"I've never seen a fatal graft­versus-host reaction stopped before," said Rosen, who is chief of immunology at the hospital. "This child was having a fatal reaction, and it was stopped." 
Sometime this week, doctors 
• • • Reagan 
continuedfrom page 1 

Democrats and Republicans are humanitarian relief." working contains $1 billion in grants 
The president's comments in the to local governments and a variety of closed meeting were relayed by other proposals that the president deputy White House Press Secretary threatened two months ago to veto Larry Speakes. as "pork barrel," according to con­
The proposal on which both gressional sources. 
-----------------------------,
Now that you've seen "Brubaker"... 
· rommuRTON 
prison reformer whose story was depicted in the movie 
"BRUBAKER" 
will speak on the future of the penal system and the mov1e. 
Thurs. Feb 17 8:00pm esc Bldg. 
s.u. series on the future of American Society 


L----------------------------j
.........,....~ ...,..............,... ........ .,..........~.~-·........ ...........................,...........................__............1
~ 
ltusmqatsenbJX!!! :~~ 1 
~ Sat. Feb. 19--(Bus leaves Main Circle at 1pm) .~ ~ \ only 45 Spac 'S available, SO sign Up now! ' f~~ ~ ~ sign-up sheet ~ee Margaret (S. U. secretary) 





'w ,

\ in Student Un1\n offices (2nd 11oor LaFortune) ~j' ~ ~ \ ~~~ ~ \ 
~ ~ =:--::=w .. . / / \ 
• <>-i _.d; -_.., . ~ /~ r \ .--h---·-;;-'t;·J; Q~ ,.,...--:--:: ~/ -~ 
....... , ---,.._-J
L.....,...._..._...,......,·-·-,._._,...._,_.~~·..,.. .............,.....~....,...~·...,.....~~...,.. 
hope to discharge Bryan from the hospital and send him back to Buf­falo. 
The baby's parents, Barbara and Leo Ahlers, were apprehensive at first about subjecting their son to an experimental treatment. 
"We really didn't have any choice," said Mrs. Ahlers. "We were scared. But it was either use this or just let fate take its course." 
Soon after birth, the baby under­went surgery at Buffalo Children's Hospital for a heart defect and was given a routine blood transfusion. Then it was discovered that Bryan had been born without a thymus gland, his mother said. 
Because he lacked a thymus, he did not have normal defenses against disease, and the foreign blood at­tacked his organs. The result was graft-versus-host disease, which the Boston doctors relieved with monoclonal antibodies. 

Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
If you think Itali~m tix>d is JUSt spaghetti ~md piz;r.a, we\e got a mouth -opming experience waiting li>r you em: \\!.'tlneStltr night !Tom S:tKl · HHXl p.m. at '11w Imking (;J~L"' Restaur~mt in the ~>uth Ilt>nd \larriott. 
~1troduLing \l~mta \larriott's -a Iilio// g11sln :uny of ~mtip~L,ta. mim·strone. fettuLim·. cacciatore. I:L':tglll'. p:L-;ta :utd tiJLtr sauces. rhet'Sl'. brt~llb :Uld dt'SSt'riS. 
It s all senwl up in atestilt· lt~~i:Ul atmosphert• -· cht't'kered tablecloths. astrolling musiri:m ­the works. 
All 1ou c:uteat ti>r Sh.lJS. Children undl'r I2 -S~ l)~ 
Reservations Appreciated 

FREE CHIANTI 
.Ju~t pn·~t·nt tim ad to n1ur waitl'r :md wt'll giH' vou a free hottll' of 
Chtantl to t'llllll wtth mur meal and keep the bottle :L' a sourenir Offer valid through February 23, 1983. One coupon per table 
.~ 11/'edero-' 
South Bt·nd/.,\\orriott ttottl . 
12) r\. St Joseph St., South l~nd (219) 234-2000 
~----­

Wednesday, February 16, 1983-page 6 


Editorials 
More of the nuclear question 
As some of you may or may not know, this call for nuclear disarmament is not unex­Father Hesburgh returned recently from Vien­pected. Hesburgh's stature as an international na, Austria, where he participated in a con­politico of import seems to put him in direct ference of international religious leaders on opposition to the current Administration in the questions of nuclear weaponry and Washington on the issue of nuclear force. nuclear holocaust. The conference also was Moreover, while the manifesto of the con­attended by such notables as Franz Cardinal ference was completely predictable in its tone 
and basic declarations, it is quite notable that the document was issued in the hopes of in­
Robert Lloyd Snyder 
tensifying the level ofcurrent nuclear debate and galvanizing world public opinion in order
Over there 
to force the respective nuclear powers to uni­
laterally co-operate in he reduction and Koning, the Archbishop of Vienna, and Arch­elimination nuclear weaponry. bishopJean)adot, the President ofthe Vatican 
Although I believe the document to he im­
Secretariat for Non-Christians. Many portant in that it will add opposition to the prominent scientists from France, the United current nuclear build-up from respected and Ststes, the USSR, and the Pontifical Academy of conservative public tlgures, I have 
some Sciences attended -all well-versed on the problems with the substance of the manifesto 
subject of"the nuclear issue." The conference itself and with the circumstances which sur· produced a manifesto titled: "Sutement bv round 1-lesburgh's participation in this call for Religious Leaders: Vienna, 1 S Janurary 1983," sanity in an increasingly paradoxical world. which joins the scientific community in its First, the declaration calls for many call for an end to nuclear build-up, nuclear developments -such as the reduction of proliferation, and eventually, total elimination nuclear stockpiles, an end to the arms race, of nuclear weaponry. and international proliftration of nudear 
l find it notable that Hesburgh, generally an weaponry, the repudiation of nuclear war as a individual who is perceived as a means to settle disputes, and a call for a "conservative," is in the forefront of this anti­dialogue between countries of the world to establishmentarian opposition of nuclear promote understanding and eliminate nuclear weaponry. While as a major religious leader, weaponry. Yet, the document does not make a 
\ \ R\VER CITY 
,
1/ 


Well, this year it is something different. This
Fowled-up food 
year someone is obsessed with chicken. DearEditor: Every chicken dish imaginable has ap­
1 honestly believe that the dining halls are peared in the serving lines this year. We have trying to do good things this year. The innova-had honey-dew chicken, barbecue chicken, tions they have attempted may have, on occa-and chicken cacciatore. All of this chicken is sion, missed the mark a bit, but I can sense that for the birds. No bones about it, we have had they are reaDt trying. For example, the first tons of chicken patties, chicken salad semester "Dessen Night" was excellent, but I sandwiches, and chicken chow mein. I am felt like a cannibal eating "Napoleon." In my beginning to feel hen-pecked. In addition, we 
mind "Mexican Night" totally failed, but once have had gobs of baked chicken, sesame 
again I appreciated the effon. Besides, one can chicken, and chicken tetrazzini. All of this is 
even see some good in that south-of-de-not to mention eggs which come from chick­
border culinary feast. My favorite night of all, ens. I have been left with a fowl taste in my 
however, was the infamous "German Night." I mouth. Someone has a cock-eyed view of 
ate twenty-three pieces of strudel. But even menu originality. On the other hand, it must 
on this unprecedented evening one thing did take great imagination just to think up so 
not achieve "super" status. Yes, I did feel that many different names for plain, old chicken. 
the fake beer fell just a bit shon ofthe mark. Well, I hate to beat a dead chicken, so that is 
Despite these brilliantly imaginative menu enough of this foolishness. variations, there has been one instance of Heti~ce, I come to my conclusion. My menu planning that has lapsed into what I like friends believed that I would be too afraid to to call "the last year syndrome." This disease's submit this editorial to the Observer. Without chief symptom is the incessant repetition of hesitation I told them that they were mis­one food item on the menu. Some avid Ob-guided. I have never been accused of being server readers may remember an editorial I chicken in my entire life. wrote last year criticizing the over abundance TimZojkie of ham we were served unceasingly last year. Planner Hall 
-


Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvaryingopinions on £ampus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239-5303 

general call to the world's population to nuder disarmament movement, l question pressure their governments to enact the the compatibility of his moral and religious aforementioned suggestions. The document denounciations of contemplation of the seems to he more ofan attempt to raise public "feasibility" of nuclear war while there are consciousness on the issue of nuclear such "feasibility" studies being conducted at 
weaponry t t han a call for action on the part of the very institution he has direct and absolute the citizens of each "nuclear" country.l find control. The irreconcilible fact is that ifFather this failure to issue a direct appeal to the Hesburgh expects to be taken seriously on populace notable; from the arguments given this subject (and I truly believe he does), then and the positions taken by conferees, one he should order a moritorium on all further would expect that the next logical step would research by University faculty relating to the be that the world's peoples would direct op­non-peaceful use of nuclear power pending a position to the nuclear build-up. The question definitive resolution on the question of whether or not to issue such an appeal was nuclear weaponry by the entire faculty. Once surely debated by these world religious Father Hesburgh "sets his own house in or­leaders, each of whom speaks with authority der," his own opposition to nuclear weaponry within their own religious communities; it is will be much more credible. puzzlng that this was not included in the This is not a question to be taken lightly; as manifesto, and I suspect that this was omitted the document produced at the conference perl)aps because of the problems that would rightly notes, "humanity for the first time in aris<: from establishment tlgures advocating history has the power to destroy itself." Per­opposition to the establishment itself. haps they are correct that "the world is drift­Whether or not my speculation is true, I still ing towards a fatalistic acceptance of the believe that this omission is glaring, and that inevitability of nuclear conflict"; if they are because ofit, this manifesto takes the relative­correct, this outlook must be altered. The call 
ly "safe" position of repeating "minimalist" for sanity in this nuclear world should speak 
disarmament arguments. with greater volume and greater intensity 
Moreover, while I applaud father lies­than exhibited at this point, and the future of 
burgh's stance on nuclear weaponry and nuclear disarament movement is something 
proliferaion and the leading position he has that every sane person on this living Earth 
undertaken in the American and worldwide should pray for. 


Dear Fluffy. • • 
Dear Fluffy, hlomle hair, so starch-like that not even the 
You probably don't know me, but I (and most furious typhoon could waver it. Your 
every other Notre Dame male, for that matter) dark roots and eyebrows provide a wonderful 
know you. My love for you is deeper than the contrast to your plastic countenance. I admire 
deepest chasm, and my respect for you, more your intelligence -not that you display it of­
mountainous than the Grand Tetons. ten, but l'm sure you have some. 
Anyhow, I was wondering if you could 
come over to a party tomorrow and get
Keith Picher bombed. Afterward, maybe we could have an 
intimate and meaningful conversation on the
Short of Profundity subject of your choosing. I really crave your 
personality. If you have any questions, feel free to write Perhaps a short introduction. My name b 
back. I'm looking forward to a verv deep and 
I. B. Stud. I like to gargle with razorblad<:s and 
meaningful relationship, if you have some 
punch brick walls. I was horn in California, 
spare time. moved to florida, and now spend my sum· 
Love, /rna Big Stud 
mers as a lifeguard in the Virgin Islands. My hobbies include surtlng, sailing, and shark Dear Prospective Suitor: wrestling. 
Thank you very much for vour interest.
P.O. Box Q 
But my favorite hobby is collecting coins. In While competition is extreme"ty stiff, I will fact, that's how I came to meet you! 
When I went to lunch the other day, you were directly ahead of me in line. In the left rear pocket of your Gloria Vanderbilt jeans (just above your leg warmers) I spotted a l967D Roosevelt dime. A feeling of immense pleasure spread throughout my veins. I'd been searching for that coin for years. Ifonly l'd had the guts to ask you for change. 
Anyhow, after y(>u accidentally dropped your fork, I found a place to sit near the milk machine. I guess you forgot to get a salad, since you made a few trips (seven, I think) to the salad bar. 
I saw you for the second time as I was leaving your dorm around 6 a.m. last weekend. I didn't even recognize you at first, as you were only beginning to put on your makeup (do you use Nuit d'Amour or Plas­teressence?) I thought it rather peculiar that you sported spiked heels and a Marilyn Monroe-like dress so early on a Saturday morning, but I hardly had time to talk, as the assistant rectress was chasing after me. 
Only two encounters have convinced me 
that you are the one with whom I want to 
spend my entire life, on weekends anyway. 
Does your infantile and dizzy little sense of 
humor beckon me? Maybe it's your bleach-review your credentials enthusiastically. I'm glad you noticed my advenising campaign, though I was a bit concerned that you missed my five trips to the Tab dispenser, to say no­thing of my excursions which led nowhere. 
Your application will be evaluated by the following criteria: G.P.A. times 200 plus MCATor LSAT score. Other influential factors include: make and model ofcar, letter jacket, extra-curricular activities (other than coin collecting), and outdoor activities (e.g. hiking, fishing, spelunking). 
Please do not be upset ifyour application is rejected, since men like you are numerous, and women like me are all too rare. 
Fluffy 
Letters policy 

Editor's Note: Letters should be brief and deal with specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone number and signature of the author. Initials and pseudo­nyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, or letters addressed to per­sons other than the editor are not accept­able. All letters are subject to editing. 
-

Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Cbief..............................Michaei Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor ............................. Paul McGinn Features Editor ............................ joe Musumeci Photo Editur ..................... ·-...... Rachel Blount 
~ 
Department Managers 
Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Systems Manager ........................... Bruce· Oakley 
Founded November 3, 1966 


~ -~---~-~----~-------~------~....,.--­

Back into the water 
"lustwhen you thought it was safe to go back in the 
water ..." 

aws, the cute gray shark with the sparkling white 
teeth ofwhich the American Dental Association would 
be so proud, started the sequel phenomenon for most of 
us. Remakes in the film industry were commonplace, 
but the sequel ... Now that was big stuffllf the original 
succeeded, then the sequel is sure to gross, even if it is 
onlyon the merit ofits predecessor.AirplaneII, TheSe­quel practicallylifts dialogue, situation, and sweat from the original. Rocky either wins or loses, depending what he did in the sequel before this one. 
We are an age ofsequels and serials. Students schedule classes around their favorite soap operas, leaving university and college administrators stunned at the prevailing tastes and attitudes on their campuses. 
Tcui Brown 
features 

Prime time has siphoned offsome ofthe cream ofthose lovers of the afternoon. Shows like Dynas~v. Falcon Crest, Knots Landing, and the granddaddy of them all, Dallas, tally up a majority ofthose precious ratings 
points. 
It is a curious trend. 
I can just envision some Freudian psychologist (sorry, Sigmund!) trying to analyze this type ofbe­havior. Perhaps he might relate it to some deep-seated memory ofbeing abandoned by one's mother, then taken back, then abandoned ... (sounds like a good plot for a motion picture ... maybe I could even get two or three sequels out of it). 
Historians could get into the act. They could research the events that led up to this sudden outbreak ofsequels and serials. Who knows what they might find? 
The whole phenomenon may be related to some political uprising that has infected the world, or economic pressures that have forced the movie in­dustry to produce winners and not take the risk on pos­sibles, or social behaviors that have arisen because of the Vietnam War or the new morality. 
Ah, the decade of the 80's, filled with the fears of un­
employment, job insecurity, and lack ofpersonal full111­
ment. It is the decade that brought the attitudes of the 
' 

60's to fruition. The "me" generation emphasized the 
concern for the individual, deemphasizing the many. 
The vision became one of"me, myselfand I," the holy 
trinity ofindividuality. 
The twenty years since the advent ofthe hippie 
movement have sharpened that attitude to: "me first 
and you later, if I have time." 
Little isolated "me's" wear down the same path each day to their corner seat in Emil's Chemistry class. They look no further than themselves for satisfaction, prefer­ring to repeat the same series ofevents and encounters than to walk in a different direction or meet a new sec­
tion member. 

These sequel-makers gestate in the hall parties, the screw-your-roommates, the happy hours. They are fed on the beerand cigarettes ofa crowded room ofpeople, some genuinely looking for sompanionship, others more selt1shly looking for the proverbial one-night­stand. The talk before the social event is made up ofthe list ofqualifications and the numerologies which became most popular with Bo Derek and 10. 
Sequel-makers stand in front of their mirrors, admir­ing the winning smiles that are going w be the envy of every other guy or girl in the room. They adjust their collars, their untrained wisps ofhair, and the fall oftheir pants' legs, putting everything in its proper place. 'Tm ready to go ..." 
Beware, other sequel-makers. This one is ready to make a mark on someone's heart or mind (leaving the tread ofa Goodyear tire) as his or her personal signature. "I have been here an,; conquered." 
Another conquest. Like that of their heroes on Dynas~v, or maybe Dallas, or maybe one of the after­noon soaps. The sequel-makers have written another episode in their never-ending personal drama. 
They are content with sequels, not originals. Sequels are easier to write than original plots and storylines. It's safer to rework an old, successful story, and count on it being a prot1t-making endeavor. 
This isn't surprising. We are an age ofsequel-makers, 
not risk-takers meday, someone is going to discover 
that there are new scripts to be played. Someday, 
someone is going to be brave enough to play them. On 
that day, we won't be afraid to go back into the water 
and get our feet wet. 
Author's note: Thank you to the handful offriends whopushed me back into the waterand the onefriend who took my hand and pulled me in over my head. 
GAND_HI proves world event 
T
he advertising strategy that Columbia pictures has adopted to tout Richard Attenborough's Gandhi places the job ofreviewing this film into quite a different light. I've got to ask myself if this fllm is really the "world event" that the ex­ecs in Hollywood say it is. Is there truth in advertising? Yes. This movie is fantastic. The plot synopsis is easy. The film is a biography of Mahatma Gandhi 

Dennis Chalifour 
movie review 

starting with his non-violent battle with the British government in South Africa and taking us through 
his entire life. "Unable to present 
every event in a man's life," a blurb 
at the head ofthe film claims, "we 
tried to get to his very soul." It 
works. For the three hours orso that 
we are in the theater we live this 
great man's life. His soul is apparent. 
The key, ofcqurse, to the success 

ofthis film is Ben Kingsley's 
portrayal ofGandhi. Kingsley is ab­
solutely stunning. He plays the 
"great soul" for 56 ofGandhi's 79 
years. Ifthe story doesn't interest 
you at all, I'd wager you could keep 
yourselfentertained by just watch­
ing Kingsley get old. But the aging process is not the only thing on the screen to watch. Kingsley is Gandhi. From his facial expressions to his manner of speech, even to his vigorous gait, it is obvious that Kingsley has done his homework 
well. 
Now ifyou think about the life 
that Gandhi led and the exacting 
reproductive qualities that this film 
has taken upon itself, you can begin to guess what kind ofan epic film this movie is. I'd dare say its the greatest epic since David Lean's Lawrence ofArabia. The first five minutes ofthe film perfectly clue the audience to the importance of this man. 
Throughout its playing time, this film does exactly what the movies are supposed to do: sweeps an audience into the screen to eagerly partake insome cinematically manipulated reality. First-time director, Richard Attenborough proves himselfa worthy guide. The visuals always ring true yet are con­sistently stunning. The expanse of the Indian countryside looks fantas­
tic on the 70mm wide screen. And 
the soundtrack is absolutely in­
credible. Don't rob yourselfof the 
experience and wait for this picture 
to be on cable 'FV. It is a cinematic 
experience. 
Yet this is not a film that is going to just be expansive without geting in­to the humanity of its characters. 
The little scenes are just as powerful as the big ones. The most intense moment ofthe film may come when Gandhi first comes to terms with the British government before a handful of people in South Africa. He is 
demonstrating that Indians should 
be considered equal and burns the 
IDs his race has been forced to carry 
about with them. This is where we 
first get a sense ofthe immense spirit 
that is within the body ofthis little 
man. It is quite a thing to see. 
The supporting actors in the film are quite good with Martin Sheen standing out in the relatively small role ofWalker, a character amalgam of the band ofwestern pressmen who followed Gandhi throughout his life. The only weak point among the cast seems to be Candice Ber­gen, portraying Life photographer Margaret Bourke· White. Her role seemed ridiculously unimportant 
against the life ofGandhi. 
The only other problem I had with the film was the relatively small role Gandhi's Hindu faith played in his life story. Instead ofdrawingex­amples from the Bhagavad-Gita when the time is right, Gandhi is shown forever drawing examples from the Bible. It's almost as ifthe producers ofthis film were trying to 
make Gandhi into a more Western 
character to insure .:udiences would 
like the guy. 
All problems aside, Gandhi is a 
world event. The film is great be­
cause it effectively portrays a great 
man. As Albert Einstein said, 
"Generations to come will scarce 
believe that such a one as this ever in 
flesh and blood walked upon this 
earth." Filmgoers can now believe it. 
Don't CQII them 
T
heir major beliefis that the human value system is deteriorating. 
They are not a religious group, nor a political one. They are The 
Call, a relatively new rock group whose attention is focused wholly 
on the human side ofsociety. Michael Been, the group's lead vocalist related The Call's views, "We're concerned with the breakdown of certain human values. There's a loss oflove today that saddens us, and we tried to reflect this in our music." This reflection is embodied in their new album, Modem Romans. Despite the artistic pretensions, however, this album doesn't work. 
The main reason for its failure is that the group, in a sense, goes too far; their message seems less serious and sometimes almost comical. They just weren't satisfied with their statement in ''Turn a Blind Eye," that the world refuses to get involved in its own problems, and 


Pat Seaudine 
Record review 
it simply ignores them. 
Instead, they compare our society to a battlefield and almost every song has mentions ofnightly military raids, colonial maneuvers, or raging battles. This exaggeration ofour sociey resembles pure com­edy in "Back from the Front," the final song on the first side. Michael Been melodramatically sings,"The crowd looks upward/ A man looks down/ A blow to the temple/ He's knocked to the ground." It is difficult for the listener to refrain from laughing, let alone take it seriously. Another ridiculous comparison to our society is evident when he sings, "The truth about war/It's a total waste/It's the ul­timate drug/It's the ultimate taste." It is a shame that this overdone melodrama gets in the way of this song because otherwise, it is not bad music. 
Beside their ridiculous portrayal of modern times, another thing detracts from their fairly competent music -the lead singer, him­self. It is not that his voice is bad. It is simply that he sounds truly obsessed and demented in every one of his songs, and it is hard to believe a man when he comes across as a common lunatic. He never • gives the listener a break from his wailing voice, throughout such depressing numbers as "Violent Times," "The Walls Came Down," and "Turn a Blind Eye," These titles are also reflections ofhis obses­sion. 
Another aspect ofModern Romans is that there is no true single on the album, or dominant member in the band, and the presence of these factors, or the lack there ofare significant because they would set the group apart and make its message more convincing. 
The music, as previously mentioned, is not what makes this album a failure; it is the various elements that get in its way. "Des-tina­tions," for example, is a good synthesizer instrumental until Been's voice is added, and "All About You" could also have potential as a single ifsomething didn't hold it back. In this case, it is again the de­
mented voice ofthe lead singer and some insipid lyrics that bring it down. 
These cases make me wonder what would happen if these guys toned down the harshness oftheir ideas and concentrated on the music. Only then can their potential, whatever it may be, be realized. These songs also highlight a few other qualities that exist on this lp. The band is dedicated; some of the songs are beat orientated, al­though not many people would want to dance to the break up of society. Other than that, the only thing this album is ideal for is using· it as a skeet shoot, or better yet, as a high speed, vinyl frisbee. 
G

erhardt Knodel, a weavemaster whose work has 
been described as both delicate and architectural will lecture on Thursday, February 17 at 8:00p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. Kodel creates sculptures of silk, cotton, metalic gimp and synthetic fibers. In 1970 he received his Master ofArts degree from California State University. Since then Knodel has been Artist in Residence and Director of the Fibers Department at Cranbrook Academy ofArt, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan. The lecture will follow a 7:00p.m. reception forthe art­ist whose work is exhibited in m·ajor collections across the country. 


~j)(),-tS=J=J=~==i=~~=S=============================w=e=dn=e=sd=a=y,=F=eb~J~ua=ry==I6=,=19=8=3===pa=g==e8
By The Observer and The Associated Press 
John Paxson has been selected to the United States All­Star team that will compete against a Big Ten Conference All-Star team in the Super Shootout II All-Star Game April 6 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Paxson, Notre Dame's senior all-America guard, will be joined by Kentucky's Dirk Minnefield, UCLA's Rod Foster, Tennessee's Dale Ellis, Wichita State's Antoine Carr, St. John's David Russell, Missourfs Steve Stipanovich, Houston's Larry Micheaux, Syracuse's Leo Rautins. Pepperdine's Orlando Phillips and Villanova's john Pinone. The U.S. team will be coached by CBS basketball analyst Billy Packer, while the Big Ten squad will be coached by NBC's AI McGuire. 
The Obseroer 

All SMC swimmers and diverswho are going to Nationals are to meet wih Coach Trees tonight at 10 p.m. in the Angela Lounge. -The Obseroer 
Introduction to Windsurfing, a Free Univer­sity course, will meet tonight in room 105 O'Shag. A~yone who is signed up or interested may attend. There will be a $5 fee to cover rental of materials. -The Obseroer 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes is sponsoring an evening with former Chicago Bear and present FCA director Dave Hale. The meeting will be held in the library lounge at 
8:00 tonight. All are invited. -The Obseroer 
The ND swimming team will be on the road this afternoon in a meet at Kalamazoo College. This will be NO's last meet before the important Midwest Invitationals Feb. 24. -Tbe Observer 
The SMC basketball team, coming otJ a third­
place tlnish in the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay Invitational 
.. tournament last weekend, faces DePauw University today at S p.m. in Greencastle, Ind. The Belles are 8-12 on the season. -The Ob­server 
Interhall indoor track meet is scheduled for tonight. The field events will begin at 7:45p.m. and the first starting gun for the runners will go off at 8 p.m. in the North Dome of the 
· CC. -The Observer 

Cecil Cooper of the Milwaukee Brewers was named as the recipient of the Roberto Clemente Award yesterday, honoring the player who best exemplifies the game on and off the field. Cooper, :B, was among I 5 candidates nominated for the award, named for the Pittsburgh Pirates Hall ofFame outtlelder who died in a plane crash on Dec. 31, 1972. Voting was conducted by a 25-man panel ofsports writers, sportscasters and baseball executives. -The Observer 
Any remaining participants in the men's un­dergrad and men's grad singles racquetball tournaments should call the NVA office at 239-6100 to report results and keep the tourna­ment moving. -The Observer 
February 2 3 is the deadline for registration for two inter­
hall tournaments. The open racquetball tournament, open to anyone 
'on campus-students, faculty and staff-will be a single elimina­tion tournament, best of three games, one round per week. A wres­tling tournament will also be held -the weight classes are 123, 130, 1.37, 145, 152, 160, 167, 177 and unlimited. Halls may sign up as teams. Call 2 39-6100 or stop by C-2 of the ACC to register for either of these tournaments before next Wednesday. -The Obseroer 
AP Top Twenty 

The Top Twenty college basketball teams 1n The Associated Press poll, With hrst-place votes tn paren­theses, lhts season s records and total pomts Pomts based on 20-19-18·17 etc Notre Dame oponents are 
itafiCIZBd  
Nevada-Las Vegas (31) 22·0  1031  
2  Indiana ( 13)  19·2  1012  
3  North Carolina (4)  21·4  931  
4  Houston (5)  20·2  918  
5  Vtrgmta  19-3  813  
6  St Johns(1)  20-2  809  
7  Arkansas  20·1  731  
8  Villanova  17·4  676  
9  LOUISVIlle  21-:l  673  
10  UCLA  17-3  602  
11  Kentucky  16·5  521  
12  Mtssoun  19-4  513  
13  MemphiS State  18·3  445  
14  Georgetown  16-6  271  
15  Wichita State  18-3  260  
16  Iowa  15-6  249  
17  Syracuse  16-5  175  
18  Boston College  17-4  125  
19  Oklahoma  18·6  85  
20  Oh10 State  '15·6  78  

CENTRAL COLLEGIATE HOCKEY ASSOCIATION 

w  L  T  GF  GA  Pet  
Bowl1ng Green  21  4  3  175 98  804  
M1ch1gan State  21  7  a  112 69  750  
Oh1o State  19  5  4  135 89  750  
M1ch1gan Tech  17  11  0  143  111  .607  
Northern M1ch1gan  15  10  3  115 96  .589  
M1am1  13  14  1  122  120  .482  
Ferns State  10  15  3  104  127  411  
Notre Dame  10  16  2  121  157  .393  
Western M1ch1gan  9  18  1  93  123  .339  
M1ch1gan  9  19  0  103  140  .321  
Lake Supenor  9  19  0  93  121  .321  
Illinois-Chicago  6  21  78  143  .230  

Saturday's Results Notre Dame 5, Bowling Green 3 M1am1 8, IllinOis-Chicago 5 Ferns State 7, M1ch1gan 4 M1ch1gan State 5, M1ch1gan Tech 4 (OT) Lake Supenor 3, Northern M1ch1gan 2 Oh10 State 6, Western M1ch1gan 1 
Friday's Results Notre Dame 4, Bowling Green 4 (OT) M1am1 4, IllinOis-Chicago 1 Ferris State 4, Mich1gan 1 M1chigan Tech 6, M1ch1gan State 3 Northern M1ch1gan 1. Lake Supenor 0 Oh10 State 6, Western M1Ch1gan 2 

This Week's Games Notre Dame at Oh1o State (2) Lake Supenor at M1Ch1gan (2) M1am1 at Bowling Green (2) M1ch1gan Tech vs. Northern M1ch1gan (home and home) 
Ferns State vs. M1ch1gan State (home and home) 

1------------------------------------------=--..,...-----------------------------1 Western M1ch1gan at IllinOIS-Chicago (2) 
The Observer will accept classifieds Mon­day through Friday. 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. However. classifieds to appear in the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bustness day pnor to 1nsertion. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
e1ther in person or through the ma11.

Classifieds 
NOTICES  lost gold se1ko quartz watch possibly left 1n locker room at the Rock on 2/4/83 It found, please call K1m at 277-7401.  Need a nde East on 1·80 to Toledo tor 2­18. J1m 8708·07  JOB BANK  G1ve em hell Sue BREAK A LEG! Aldo Roses are red. and so 1s N/A Seacow 1s dead 1f no personal today!  TO JOANNE & LAURA, JUST THOUGHT I'D WAIT UNTIL THE CROWD FINISHED SENDING THEIR LOVE TO THEIR LOVED ONES NOW  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287·4082 TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 Ugly Duckling Rent-A-Car, Friday noon til Monday noon 529.95 Includes 150 free miles. Sales tax & Insurance extra. Phone Rob lor reservations 259­8459.  Lost: Blue TraiiWISe jacket at Farley party on Saturday. Found: Blue Tra1lw1Se Jacket nearly 1dent1cal. Call Frank 1774 A HANDMADE MONKEY SOCK STUFFED ELEPHANT WAS LOST NEAR THE LIBRARY ON 2/7/83/ IT BELONGS TO ANNIE LIGHT, A FIVE· YEAR-OLD GIRL. PLEASE RETURN TO 734 P E THANX.  HELP! NEED RIDE TO PtTISBURGH!! WEEKEND OF FEB 25 CAN LEAVE ANYTIME CALL PAT 3071 NEED A RIDE HOME FOR MOMS B'DAY TO BUFFALO OR ANYPLACE CLOSE FOR WEEKEND OF FEB 18·20 NICK 8232  Job open1ng at Williams Home Center 1n N1les Part-lime work needed 1n sales and stock For 1nto. call Deb K1eter at 683-2700 Job open1ng at Williams Home Center 1n S B Summer help needed 1n full and part·t1me sales and stock For 1nfo. call Greg Richard at 291· 8500 Job opemng at S1nger Gen T~re. Inc m S. 8 Work needed 1n sales on a commiSSIOn bas1s. For 1nfo. call Tom  To whoever was kmd enough to remove my CHAIN & RING from the ROCK on 12, Feb , I would very much apprec1ate your return1ng 1t may call me at 3759 If 11 IS returned there w1ll be NO GRIPES. however, 1f 11 IS not you should hope that SECURITY finds you before I DO. Yearbook, 4 deadly curses at ND. the school Wib the  IT'S MY TURN YOU KNOW, I'VE TWO OF THE BEST FRIENDS IN THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD YOU WOULDNT HAPPEN TO KNOW WHO THEY ARE. WOULD YOU? PROC Loren. Happy 22nd b1rthday to the best RA 10 As ever had! RCA and Zenith  
TYPING Jack1e Boggs 684·8793 LYONS HALL FOODSALES DELIVERS FRESH THICK CRUST PIZZA TO ALL OF SOUTH QUAD. PRICES CAN'T BE BEAT. CALL x1853 Need nde to St. LOUIS 2/17 or 2/18. Laura 4432. Surplus Jeeps, cars and trucks available. Many sell tor under $200 Call 312-742· 1143 Ext 73161or InformatiOn on how to  LOST. ND CLASS RING('83), NAME INSIDE. BLUE STOME. LOST POSSIB· LV AT SMC(MOREAU-O'LAUGHLIN HALL), LAST SEEN OVER WEEKEND OF 1/28·1/30, BIG REWARO $$$ OF­FERED, IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO PLEASE CALL 283·3346 LOST Tl-55 It Calculator 3RD fl F1tzpatnck 2/8 Please return to Lee x8693 FOR RENT  Need nde to Dayton tor Feb 18-20 Call Cla~re 284-4379 Need nde to Cleveland/ Akron area tor weekend of Feb.18-20 Call Tracey SMC 4379 Need nde to Orlando. Flonda and back lor Spnng break W1ll share as usual. Call 3061  Shanahan at 291·4616 I PERSONALS Happy Blnhday to the Klssy Kat, It has been an Interesting 21 years. With love from The Mrs., Pa Coon, Marl Talty Woo, Nonie, Boonle, Timothy Llmothy, Michael Bones, Misty Harbor & Harold. Need A1de To Connecticut For Spnng Break Will Share Usual Please Call Dan at 6824  Golden Phlegm-Bucket HJ, JF. PW. and Phlegm Turn on the heater & I'll kill ya I'll make 1t look like phlegm-1C1de Phlegmus Maxtmus Th& next best thing to being warm in Miami, is being happy in Elkhart. L1sa and Mary. Two ND women of north quad that make long niles at ND Bare able tor real un­squlshable men Thanx always. Bob. Dan. Joe. Glen, Steve. and Matt, We don't get mad We JUSt get even  Get a clue JJ -What?????? NED IV NED IV NED IV NED IV KDM-To the prettiest fo1l to ever hit the beach-GOOD LUCK 1n Fla! Enjoy and bnng me a seashell-FA Here's to Semor Class Ski Trip memories ... Bus B is the Bestl, 69 with meal, "Making Love;" dark beer and Schnapps, Zoom-Schwanz-Figliano, match poker, "Thanks, Joel" "Shut Up Sue!" long johns, Awlui-AwluLit was  
purchase. PROFESSIONAL TYPING $1.00 PER PAGE FREE PICK UP AND DELIVERY 282-1805 SPRING BREAK IN NEW YORK NEW YORK METRO CLUB STOPS IN NEW YORK CITY AND WESTCHESTER. SIGN-UPS TUES. FEB.22 2nd FLOOR  House 4 bedroom, near ND. $290 permo Fall or summer No utilities. Phone (319) 322·8753 Patty Sem1-Furn 2BdRm Apt near ND Utilities Pd Less Gas Ph 272-0261  GOING TO IOWA on the weekend of March 5-6??? I need a fide to and from etther Iowa C1ty, Debuque. Davenport. or Cedar Rap1ds Call Ll SA at 8880 HELP! Need nde to dwntwn Chgo or O'Hare area Fn Feb 18 Marya 1266/7  JOHN Y & SHIRLEY Happy 26th. thanks lor my 21 !! I love you! Ladies of P. W. VOTE Stlrks-Prez McCrudden. VP of hall council  Dear A Fan·. Thank you tor your compliment Only one questton Who are you? Ttm C Buzo. Thanks tor bemg such a sweetheart the past lew weeks Hope you II always be my Valentine! Love ya lots. Little One  the greatest!II Thanks to Mark Mai lor doing such a great job! -the Crushed Banana ATTN BRENDAN SMITH It's me aga1n If you are try1ng to guess who I am, g1ve 1t up! You probably don't even know I ex1st Htnt x2ts commg Love, ?  
OF LAFORTUNE.  
STUDENT RENTAL. 4-BEDROOM TYPING WANTED 277·8534 6·1 0 PM M­HOUSE CALL 232-4057, 272-7767 F. ALL DAY WKNDS 4 bdrm turntshed house, near campus -RIDE NEEDED To Pittsburgh. th1s On Notre Dame Ave Good cond1t1on 9 weekend. Can leave after 9 am on Fnday mo lease $335 per mo. Call 684-0933 Call Martha. 284-1514. (local call) { LOST/FOUND I ~~_w_A_N_TE_o__,JI  FOR SALE For Sale Sony Watchman-TV Call T1m at 8891 JL..,___1_1c_KE_Ts____.  PASQUERILLA WEST RESIDENTS Don't forget to vote lor KATHY KEMP· HALL PRESIDENT KATHLEEN DOYLE • HALL VICE­PRESIDENT GET READY FOR SOME R.OCK N FUN THE ROOMS THE KINETICS AND PSYCHO CAPONES FROM CHICAGO COMING SOON HEY GIRLS! Open new DOORS to your soc1al lite V1s1t the MORRISON HOTEL  A1ders needed 1n rental car on East 1-80 as far as Sharon. PA Fnday, the 18th We leave early afternoon Call Tracey or Anne at 284-4454 Wanted MALE BUTLER tor Augusta s.ngle Duties the usual ··Only b1g ... men need apply Expenence reqUired Call Marg1e at 5329 SMC Ride needed to Central Michigan area this weekend. Call Maggie 4345.  Attn: Mary Louise Padden, A Birthday Toast· Ulcers are to Hogs as Swigs are lor Ulcers, as Bottles are lor Swigs, as "The Dukes" are to... As H20 Spons are to(?) As long as I'm-Drippy. GUYS call her-SMC 4427 WHO BROKE THE BUBBLER ON THE JRD FLOOR ALUMNI?? I HEARD IT WAS A GIRL! THE ALUMNI HALL TERRORIZING TRADITION LIVES ON...  
FOR THE PERSON WHO STUMBLED INTO THE WRONG ROOM IN FLANNER & STUMBLED OUT WITH MY WALLET. I  MILWAUKEE nde or nders needed Feb 18·20 ROG 277-6842  I HATE REO SPEEDWAGON TOO BUT I WOULD LIKE TO GO TO THE CON·  at129 Zahm For reservations. call8905 Ash Wednesday Prayer Serv1ce · Bread. Not Bombs · w1t1 be held m Sacred Heart  Somebody had a w1ld 11me at(after) the Morr1ssey formal! --Was your su1t wear and wash? --Dtd you remember your name yet?  BUBULLA, I LOVE YOUR LEGS AND YOUR CHIPMUNK NOSE. TENDER  
WOULD APPRECIATE THE RETURN OF THE CONTENTS NO QUESTIONS· TIM-1143 Lost: Reward Burgundy purse & wallet  NEED RIDE TO AKRON-CLEV AREA THIS WEEKEND FEB 18·20 JULIE X7852  CERT ANYWAY AND I NEED A TICKET CALL3601  Lady Chapel on Feb 16 from 3 30 to 4 30 All are welcome! STEVE. , I SURE HOPE THAT TURTLENECKS,  --Otd you ban or stand? --Was 11 a baby ruth or was1t real? --To the one 1n the snazy outfit aren t you mad you m1ssed 11 all? /Love the 3 loomes who know how to get  SCHMUBULLA, MOOCA MOOCAI TINEOFTOIN Pittsburgh' P11tsburgh 1 I need a nde to  
Lost at Dillon Hall Fnday. 11 Last seen 1n  REO! REO'  COLD SPOONS. AND COMBS WORK  dates!  Ptttsburgh th1s weekend! Anyone headed  
Food Sales  Please return  my hcense.  NEED  AIDE  TO  NEW  JERSEY  FOR  COMING  SOON  TO  ACC'  WE  HAVE  FOR  YOU.  CAUSE  THEY  SURE  PS  sorry we m1ssed all the  real  act1on  there and look1ng fer nders. please g1ve  
school ' d  & ptctures are 1n there  Call  SPRING BREAK CALL DAN  1487 OR  TWO  GREAT  TICKETS'  CALL  TONI  HAVENT FOR ME KATHLEEN  Thanks tor the rught. we had a not  me a call  Martha. 283-1514  Can leave  
284-5181. Thank you.  JOHN 1247 OR CARLOS 1502  AND SANDY AT SMC 5527 FOR INFO!  after 9 am on Fnday  


The Observer Wednesday, February 16, 1983 -page 9 
College basketball 
BC upsets No. 6 St. John's 

Renewed criticism 
Cosell, Patterson speak on boxing 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Former heavyweight champion Floyd Pat­terson and television commentator Howard Cosell urged Congress yes­terday to create a federal commis­sion to conrol what Cosell termed the "desperately sick sport" of professional boxing. 
Patterson, representing the New York State Athletic Commission, declared, "We just need one set of rules nationally," including man­datory use ofthumbless gloves. 
"I would not like to see boxing abolished," said Patterson, who held the world title twice between 1956 and 1962. "I come from a ghetto, and boxing is a way out. It would be pitiful to abolish boxing, because you would be taking away the one way out." 
Patterson and Cosell, of ABC-TV, testified before a House subcommit­tee on commerce, transportation and tourism headed by Rep. James). Florio, D-N.J. Other witnesses joined their call for a national boxing authority. 
Boxing has come under renewed criticism since the death of South Korean Duk Koo Kim from brain damage after a lightweight cham­pionship fight against Ray "Boom Boom" Mancini last Nov. 13. Other fighters have suffered serious eye in­juries. 
Former we t lterweight champion Sugar Ray Leonard retired last year after surgery to repair a detached retina, the same injury sustained by one-time heavyweight contender Earnie Shavers. 
Patterson, who compiled a career record of 55-8-1, outlined to the House panel the reforms the New York commission had made in that state, including the thumbless glove. He brought sets of the old and the 
new gloves to show to the panel. 
"The thumbless glove is very 

suitable for boxing." he said. "The 
main injury in boxing is not brain 

STUDENT DISCOUNT 
of"( e~~~ 
s ~s 4 ,.
o~'~ ~1\1~ 
200/00FF 
Good Mon-Thurs onlv 
STUDENT DISCOUNT wiStudent 1.0. Offer not valid with any 
other Aurelio's special discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S.BEN D AVE./23 at edison 
• ~' " ~Ml I

''"""'01\1. 111'1 I'-277 4950 ~II "" 
damage, it is eye damage." Patterson noticeable deterioration of their played a key role in developing the respect for civilization." glove. Florio said regulation of the sport 
Cosell, who said three months ago has been a "non-system" compared he would no longer announce with the other professional sports, professional fights, said boxing can which are self-regulated. He said only be saved through the creation legislation would be drafted as the ofa national sports commission. hearings identify the problems of 
"Professional boxing is a the sport. desperately sick sport," he said. "I At the least, said Florio, Congress recommend federal regulation and should create an independent ad­control. If not, l don't know what visory commission on boxing safety will happen to boxing. The nations which would be charged with of Sweden and Norway have developing future legislative abolished boxing and there is no remedies. 
I

---------------------------------------· 
The One and Only 1983 Senior Formal I I 
I 
I 

tt The Main Event" I 
I 
I 

April 9, 1983 I I 
Bids go on sale I I the beginning of March I I Start making plans now Seniors I .1 for the Main Event of 1983 ! 
~---------------------------------------~ 
Juniors Boutonniers & Corsages for The President's Dinner on sale on Tues.-Wed.-Thurs. at dinner in North &South 
Delivered Saturday Morning 
Interested in Playing Spring Soccer!! 
The "Italian Stallions," a South Bend based team, is interested in recruiting Notre Dame men for positions on: 
AAA Team-travelir)g team 
AA Team-local *Tryouts will be in March . *All people interested call ~im Leon at: 
287-7161 (4pm-7pm) 
Missy Van Ort, a sophomore from Auburn, Ind., will lead the SaintMary's basketball team into action againstDePauw today in Greencastle, Ind. (Photo by Lucian Niemeyer) 
Where? Swiss Valley Ski Resort in Michigan When? This Friday, Feb. 18 What time? 5 pm ·-11:15 pm How much? $12 includes lift, rentals, and transportation 
Tickets are on sale at the record store, 1st floor, LaFortune 
.~:.<:~~~'::,xleiisiiiisiiioiirin=$•1111@11~-~allillllJIIaa--ll 
The Student Union Presents: 


Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom Thurs.Feb.17 7,9and11 $1.00 

Representatives of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company's Group Insurance Company will be on campus Thursday, Feb. 24, 1983. We are looking for interested individuals who desire to become an Employee Benefit Marketing Representative, which is a salaried position in the Chicago Group Office, serving existing clients with primary emphasis on Marketing employee benefit programs to new clients through brokers and consultants. Formal classroom and on-the-job training. Starting ,salary commensurate with experience and educational background. This is a long-term career opportunity. Sign-up early on the Metropolitan Life· Chicago Group Office schedules, located at the Placement & Recruiting Office. We'll be glad to talk to you on Feb. 24th about a rewarding career. 

NEW YORK (AP) -Jay Murphy scored 30 points and John Garris added 20 to lead 18th-ranked Bos­ton College to a 92-75 upset over sixth-rated St. John's last night in a Big East basketball game. 
Chris Mullin had 19 points for the Redmen and Billy Goodwin followed with 18 to give him 1,000 points for his career, making him the 23rd player in St. John's history to reach that level. David Russell con­tributed 15 points and 11 rebounds for the Redmen. 
Murphy, shooting 11-for-15 from the field, also had a team-high 11 rebounds. Garris had 10 rebounds and four blocked shots. 
The teams played through nine ties in the first half and the score changed hands six times. The Red­men led 38-31 late in the half and were in command 38-35 at halftime. 
Trailing 44-40, Boston College scored 1 1 straight points early in the second half to move in front 51-44 after 5:10, with Murphy contribut­ing five of the points. The Eagles led 57-46 a minute later after a steal and a basket by Michael Adams, who finished with 15 points. 
Houston routs Texas 
HOUSTON (AP)-Clyde Drexler scored 21 points to lead No. 4 Hous­ton to a l06-63 victory over the Uni­versity of Texas in a Southwest Conference basketball game last night. 
It was the Cougars' 20th con­secutive conference victory and their 17th straight win at home. 
Houston took a 6-4 lead early in the first half on a 20-foot jump shot by Michael Young and built the mar­gin to 53-26 at the half behind the shooting of Young, Akeem Olajuwon and Reid Gettys. 

Olajuwon, the Cougars' 7-foot sophomore, also blocked 10 shots to set a seasonal record for the school with 127 blocks. He broke a record set by Dwight Davis with 125 during the 1970-71 season. 
Houston continued to dominate the game in the second half, reeling off 13 unanswered points to in­crease its lead to 66-26 with 16:17 left. 
Houston shot 53.7 percent from the field, and Texas managed to hit just 43.9 percent of its shots from the field. 
Also leading the Cougars' scoring were Young with 18 and Olajuwon with 17. Carlton Cooper had 22 points for Texas, while Bill Wendlandt had 18 and David Seitez added 12. 
-


~---·-~·­

The Observer Wednesday, February 16, 1983 page 10 

wr·····~ /' ....,. '~ ~ ~ ~ 

*. ' Faces Buffalo tonight 
Boston goalie goes for record 
BOSTON ( AP)-Ninety-six dap I'd get flustered." streak in 19'9-HO is an NI-IL record have passnl since Pete Peeters lost a Hut to his supportive defensemen, for a rookie goalie, has led the Bruins hockey game. If hl· can make it 97 who have limited the shots against to a 5H-I 0-H record, the league's tonight, the Boston Bruins' goalie him during the streak to 25.'1 per best. will tie the National IIockey game, the milestone is special. Opponents have: scored only 61 League's unbcaten streak of 52 "We're only thinking now about _goals in his 51-game streak. In his 21 games. 52 in a row." says defcnseman Mike games since missing three with a 
As much as his coach and Milbury. "We'd like to deliver it to groin injury, just 52 goals hve gotten tl·ammates want him to match that Pl'le as a little bit of a thank-you by him. In that stretch. he has live of mark, they'rc trying to avoid present li>r the kind of goal lw's his seven shutouts and seven one· emphasizing the significance of a played li>r us and the contribution goal games. win or tie against the Sahres in Buf he's made to the club." lie has held the opposition score­falo. Obtained laSI June 9 in a one-less in 26 of his last '16 periods. and 
"We're all trying to downplay it," sided trade with Philadelphia for his 2.15 goals-against-average leads says Boston Coach Gerry Chl·evers. deknseman Brad McCrimmon, the NIH.. who knows something about having Peeters started slowly. lie gave up "lie's the reason we're in tlrst unbeaten streaks ignored. nine goals in his llrsttwo games with place," says Barry Pederson. who 
It's his record, set in 1971-7l, that Boston, a win and a loss. leads Boston with i!___goals. "He's Peeters ··;;;·cti.asirig:. and Cheeve-r~---He was-in -thc-ncf.~-\\:ticn the--~~;;:~~;ncl;;la~i-;;~t ther~.-1-1~-~~~;t------­says, "I went 2H games before Bruins suffered a 5-2 loss to Quebec the kind of goalie who makes easy anybody even brought it up." here on Nov. II.Iowering his record shots look difilcult. He doesn't Peeters' streak, combined with to 6-·t-2. lie is 26-0-S since then. showboat. the Bruins' 17'game unbeaten Against Buft;tlo this season, he is S-O "He just makes the saves as if he's 
stretch, hardly has gone unnoticed and has allowed six goals. saying, 'What's the big deal, that's by the media or teammates. Hut the Peeters, whose 27-game unbeaten what I'm here to do."' 2S-year-old goalie claims he doesn't 
clutter his mind with thoughts of his achievement. 'I don't think about the streak," he Boston Bruins standoutgoalie Pete Peeters will attempt to tie the says. "If I think about those things it 
• • • Recruiting

NHL record for most consecutiz•e games without a loss tonight would take some positive things when Boston faces off against the Buffalo Sabres. See article at away from my game. I just play the right. ( AP Photo) game and try to sneak away with the continued/rom page 12 
trying to get big, mobile linemen. It

two points. I think to do otherwise, 
the country. seems like the rebuilding of the 
The position breakdown of this Notre Dame ti>othall ti>rtunes will he year·~ recruits shows live defensive· almost complete hy next fall. hal·ks, five offensive linemen, t(>Ur "It all won't mean anything until defensive linemen. four running they put the helmets and pads on," backs. three tight ends, two quarter­says Faust." Reputations are tine. hut backs. two wide receivers and tw1~ results are tht· key." linebackers. l'aust, of course. is right. These 
In trying to improve team speed, players haven't proved anything on Faust signed 10 players who have the college level. But all indicators been timed in -1. S seconds or bt·tter show that talent has been heading to in the '10-yard dash. The fastest is the Golden Dome. If the talent is Alonzojefli:rson. a S-9. 1'0-pounder here, whose fault is Notre Dame's with -!.:) speed from Wl·st I'almm I 1-10-1 record for the past two Beach, Fla. The .\f}()rling Neu•s con­years.' siders him the top receiver prospect Next year just might prove to be in the country and b doing a full­Notre Dame's -and that question page feature on him in this week's may become obsolete. issue. Parade called Alvin Miller, a "I personally think Notre Dame 6-4, 220-pounder from Kirkwood. will have one ofthe top tive teams in Mo. and another Irish recruit at wide the country," says Hadley. receiver, the best player in the Faust will have two years of head country. coaching experience under his belt. 
With the defensive line recruits The player~ and the coaches will~\);··~· coming in at a little over 6-·i and 2SO have two years of getting used to
. 

0 pounds and the otknsive line Faust and his system. measuring a tad over 6-S and 2-!2 And now ~ like Faust said -it's
~·· ~ • pounds, it is apparent that Faust is time to produce.
~~0~':'~
~ 

. 
~~ 

l.:J: Indiana Cablevision welcomes MTV, 
r-m~:-itti~ht-of~;<n;ii;1
~~ the only 24-hour video music network in 
I ·:--f>,·---. Haircut Shampoo I 
~~ stereo, to Michiana with a Rock'n'Roll dream 
~~ ' I .. Blow Dry: &Conditi~n I 
~ come true. HERE'S HOW TO ENTER: I -. ::;-~ Reg. $15 I 
Fill in the coupon below, or pick up an official 54533 Terrace Lane, S.B. N I 
entry blank at selected record stores or ~t any IAcross from Martin's on St. Ad.23 Q W $B .50 WITH COUPON 
GRAND PRIZE 

• Private limousine transportation for you and Indiana Cablevision office. Drop it in the MTV 1 Tues, Wed, Sat 8:30-5:30 H . I three friends to the February 19 REO concert box, or mail to: I Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30 alrcut only $6 c:~:~NI at the Notre Dame ACC1 WIN an MTV Night with REO Specdwagon 
c o Indiana Cablevision Corporation 272-0312 277-1691 HAIRMUSTBEWASHEDDAYOFCUT I
• 
Preconcert dinner with an MTV "video jock"' P.O. Box 62411

• 
Meet REO backstage after the concert! 

South Bend. IN 46660

• 
REO's complete 12-album set 1 


...---------------­
• MTV satin tour jackets! 

Indiana Cablevision brings you MTV, the 
SUMMER PROGRAMS

only 24-hour Rock'n'Roll video music network in full stereo, a cable television
10 RUNNERS-UP 

exclusive. For a new cable installation and 
• Two tickets to the REO concert. 
stereo hookup, call Indiana Cablevision 
LONDON 
ROME

• REO's latest album. "Good Trouble." 
today and take advantage of our President's 
• An MTV T-shirt. 

I¢ sale. Call for details. 
May 17 -June 16 June 13-July 12 

.. 
Watch the drawing live, Thursday, Feb. 17 at 8:00pm on Cable Channel 3 . Trauel in Ireland Trauel in France 
"WI'\ an \IT\' :'~fight with REO Speedwagon" Contest entr} form 
--------------··------------­
CONTEST Rl U:s 
Scotland &France Germany& Suitzerland
II

• Pnte \1/lnn.:r-. nulllicd b\ phon.: ';ame 
•Employees of WASEC. ICC and lheH adverlls•ng agency, pan•c•pat1ng stores. and dependents ~~~ble 
Addre" -------------------­
• 
'\u pun.:ho.tM" neo:......tn 


• 
V.. mner.. mu~l h\r m "• J~hl'jlh lu . 1-lkh,Jrl (. ,, ,or 


I
Courses in Art. Business. Education. History.

vt.~r .. hdiJ l u. ln'dtdn.t State -~-l1r -~~----­
I
• Oc.hh 111 .....nmnfi! Jl'rcnJ ''" numO.:r nl t'Oin.:.. 
Italian, Music and Philosophy.
• ,,, ,Uthtlllllhln ul rrut'' 

Age _____ Phone \umher --------­
• I1 Jr/t' Y.rnm·r, llJIJ\1 ht' l"i H'•lf' ul .lf!l" "' od,kr 
I 

• t nlr..tllh un~okr IJ\ \l'.Jh ••I ..t,!!l' mu'l h..t\l' ~ rlllt'll p.lll'llJ,, 
Informational Meeting. Feb. 23 'I 
~·rnu,..,un 
' I 
I 
7pm-London

• \rr.tngt·rm·nt' t.n (,r.trkl l'rlll.' v.rll hl' rn.uk h1 lndr.tn., 
( •• hie~, ..... 1/1 
Bpm. Rome

• I ntrlt'' mu\1 tx· H'\.t·nnJ t"l\ n•~<•n I nU',,J.~~ IL"h: .. or I 
I []«
1'11<1 
Room 348 Madeleva Hall 
• (lnh o1111 l'ILIII rtr Jfl,ldillf 
MUSIC TELEVISION 
I Passport Pictures Available 

\II entrie. mu\t bt• receiH'd h1 nooo I hur\da1. l·ehruan 17, t~M.l. 
________________. I...------------­
I F·o,. Further Info. Call ~-.... Pr..lf AK Bl~d< 4460 a-271-3716 




Ihe~r======================================== 
T0 d3:X=============W=ed=n=e=s=d=ay='=F=e=b=r=ua=ry=I=6='=1=9=8=3==p=a=g=e=l=l 
Bloom County
,..;....-------, 


AsprinMan 
cAN HAI(OLV

~IEVE :r Gtrr A 

/£/./TINE's DAY 
CARN~AI/ I <:AN'T' 
WAIT TO sHoW coNTAK! 
CW5£TS FUlL Of ANX/£17£5...Vf.NGEFUI.­UBRARIAN5... GIANT. 5f'()Tffil7 SNORJ<L.E.WACI<£R.6.•. 

CII!CJL. CXW m 
?i.E/15£ If/IN/) 1'1£ 111 SOIIP? 
) r51./lfE, SII'10N. 

~~ ~ 
J..OOIC. co.AITA~, I GOT A VALENTINE'S DAY CARNATION/ 
( 
TWATJs' 
6/U'. AT 
AsPI£/AII'IAN! 

..N.../.-Of WHICH CONV/NC£5 M£ 1lillTIHE 1/1511NC170N B£1WWJ R£AL.11Y AND OUR ~MWORt.l/ 15 W.Nf£ROU51.-Y 1HIN. 
I 
VVDQSH1 
cc:....__ 

.....__ 
~~~'''-\, 
-. __§,' __,-.J~ .. 


:r ~01 FLOWE!l,S FI«J~ t'IAUitffN, 'J'A;./ET I KAitEN, AN~ 
:roA.41, 1'!ARY KAY, SUE ERIN, .toR IE, Ll~·, KATHY, CONNIE ... 
Berke Breathed 
Campus 
•2 
p.m. -Income Tax Assistance Program, LaFortune Student Center 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Computational Syner· getics and Innovations In Fluid Dynammics," Dr. N. ). Zubsky, 356 Fitzpatrick, Sponsored by College of Engineering 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Radiation Laboratm-y Seminar, "Random Walks as Model for Almost Anything," Dr. George Weiss, Rad. Lab Conference Theatre 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "CP Viola· tion in Neutral Kaon Decay Revisited," Dr. George Gollin, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Biological Transformation of Hydrocarbons for Production ofSpeciality Chemicals," Dr. Wlliam D. Prevatt, Galvin Ufe Sciences Auditorium 

•6:30 
p.m.-Circle K Club Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
and 9:30p.m. -Social Concerns Film, "State ofSeige,", Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -Film Series, "I Claudius," CCE, ETS Theatre 

•7:30 
p.m. -Presentation, APPLLE lie Business Meeting, for all APPLE computer users, 120 Hayes Healy, Faculty, students, and staffwelcome 

•7:30 
p.m-Pax Christi General Meeting, Cen· ter for Social Concerns Lounge 

•8 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Men vs. Pitsburgh, Civic Arena, Televised by Metrosports 

•s 
p.m. -Panel Discussion, on Alternate Life Styles ofWomen, Walsh Hall, South lounge 

•s 
p.m. -Fellowship of Christian Athletes Forum, Dave Hale, library Lounge 

•8:15 
p.m.-Lecture, "The New Code ofCannon law and Professional Ethics," Fr. Lahey C.S.C, Sponsored by the Thomas More Society, I I 5 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

•9 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Value of a Liberal Arts Education," Fr. Hesburgh, Annenberg Auditorium 

•10 
p.m. -Mass and Community Prayer for Peace and Life, Fr. Hesburgh, Sacred Heart Church Crypt, Sponsored by Pax Christi and Sacred Heart Parish 


·The Far Side 

David). Adams 

W:,, 
~ 

••• S I). SAN, KATHY, LAU~II, JENNI F£~, OE881E ,'JAN£, 
rrJII£'1 • •• HEY, comE 13/I,K, DON'T YOIA WAIIff 
TO HEA~ ABOUT 
NORTH QUAD~} 


Fea!urea. 1983 
Sixty-five million years ago, when cows ruled the earth 



... 



The Daily Crossword 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 2/16/83 

ACROSS Places lor plants 5 lariat 
10 A Truman 
14 Bovines 15 Egyptian plant 
16 "Pretty maids all in-" 
17 Border 

18 Employed 
19 Italian cash 20 Perfume 22 Admit the 
truth 24 Mountain parrot 26 Cookie 
30 Vipers 33 Promote 37 Solves a 
problem 41 Peruvian 42 Hurries 43 Epitaph 
of a kind 44 Actress Patricia 45 -out (sup· plements) 46 Spills the 
beans 48 Framed 50 Ait, in 
England 51 "Nowl­
medown..." 52 Hasty 55 Homily: 

27 Sternward abbr.
Tuesday's Solution 

57 Speak 
frankly to 62 Insects 66 Boric or 
prussic 67 Nitwit 69 Surface 70 Asian 
mountain 71 Annoyance 72 Take a 
cruise 73 Properly . 74 Used poor 
judgment 
75 Ancient Phoenician city 
DOWN 1 Thong-and­
ball weapon 2 Way out 3 Depression 4 Devious one 5 Word of 
cheer 6 Sevareid 7 Soil: pre!. 8 Pours 9 Priscilla's 
man 
10 Fountain pen's suc· cess or 
11 Pa. port 12 Wading bird 13 Water bird 21 Raise 23 Taxi 25 Thing of 

value 27 Fields 28 Strokeof 
luck 29 Dogma 31 Heap 32 Fur piece 34 Ryan or 
Tatum 35 La-, Milan 36 Score 38 Certainly 39 Farlrom 
attractive 40 Mexican money 47 Newspaper 
notice 49 Buddy 53 Purloin 54 Onewho 
conceals 56 Ridicule in jest 57 Praise 
highly 58 light color 59 Glass 
container 60 Grandstand section 
61 -to (stopped a vessel) 
63 Food 
carrier 64 legatee 65 Vendition 68 A Kennedy 

.J) 

Wednesday, February 16, 1983 -page 12
~orts 

Another must win 

Irish face improved Panthers 
By RICH O'CONNOR and Seton Hall -Pitt hrings a record lie's also been grabbing 5.6 ~~jJOrts Writer of I 2-9 into the game. rebounds a game. "Joining the Big East is a great At center li>r Pitt is 6-7 Trent 
PITTSBURGH -fresh oft· its up­move for their program," says Notre Johnson. A junior college transfer set Saturday of North Carolina State, Dame coach Digger Pht:lp~. "And from Connors State in Oklahoma, Notre Dame travel~ here to play Pitt heating St. John's and Syracuse in the Johnson is averaging H. 7 points and tonight in search of its second con· last two weeks makes it that much 6.6 rebound~ a game. securive road victory -and it~ third more rewarding." Running the offense tor the Pan­
of the season in eight tries. "We took one step backward this thers is 6-1 junior Billy Culbertson. 
It will also be a homecoming for season to take two Meps forward," Now at I00 percent after a knee in­senior forward Bill Varner, who says Panther coach Dr. Roy Chip­jury last season, the Camden, N.J. played hi~ high school ball in nearby man. "Going into the Big East Con­native who transfered from South New Kensington. ference is obviously going to make it Alabama at the end of his freshman 
As a high school senior, Varner harder to duplicate the successes year, has ht:cn scoring nearly six scored 29 points en route to the we've had the past two years (two points a game and is leading the Most Valuable player honors in the consecutive NCAA appearances), team in assists with 85. Dapper Dan Classic, which b played hut in the long run it will make our Joining Culbertson m the back­annually in Pittshurgh's Civic Arena program that much stronger." court is George Allen, a 6-0 sopho­-the site of tonight's H p.m. game. One of the principals for a strong­more from Queens started for Pitt at Classmate Tim Andree also par­er {>anther team surfaced last season. the end of last season after being in­ticipated in that all-star game. In his first year as a starter, Clyde eligible until January. Allen then suf­
Over the years. the Classic has Vaughan, a 6-'i junior fi>rward from fered a dislocated finger that kept seen such great names a~ Moses Mt. Vernon, N.Y., averaged I H points him out of action until the I 3th Malone, Norm Van Lier, Maurice and ten rebounds a game. This year game of the season -he was start­Lucas, Tom McMillan, and former Vaughan's scoring average has risen ing by the 15th game. Notre Dame stars Adrian Dantley to 21.4 a game, while he's still pul­Add a strong bench that includes and Gary Brokaw (now an assistant ling down 9.3 rebounds. 6-5 freshman guard Joey David, 6-9 coach for the Irish). "Vaughan is as good a forward as freshman center Keith Armstrong 
The Panthers also hoast two cur­they come," says Phelps. "He's built and 6-7 sophomore forward Chip rent roster memhers who have like a Dantlcy and he really plays a Watkins, and you can see the pos­played in the Classic -junior Steve physical game." sibilities for both the present and the Beatty and freshman Matt Mik­Joining Vaughan on the front line future. lasevich both competed in their is 6-H sophomore Andre Williams. A Pitt is scheduled to face George­senior years of high school. native of Brooklyn, N.Y., Williams town on Saturday, and Chipman 
In their tlrst year of competition started for the last half of his fresh­must keep his young team from 
Notre Dame seniorforward Bill Varner returns home tonight as 
in the powerful Big East Conference man campaign, averaging 6.'! points looking ahead. Notre Dame. 
the Irish face Pitt. ~'arner grew up in nearby New Kensington, Pa., 
-which includes Georgetown, Vil­and '!.3 rehounds a game. At present, meanwhile, will return to face Akron 
where he was a high school standout. Will Hare profiles Varner 
lanova, St. John's, Boston College, Williams is the only other Panther on Monday and Hofstra on Tuesday
below, while Rich O'Connor prez>iews tonight's contest at right. 
Syracuse, Providence, Connecticut scoring in double tlgures with I 1.2. in the ACC. 
(Photo by Scott Bou•er) 

For Phelps' team, every game is a must win from here on in. Following DePaul's surprising loss to Ohio Uni­
_,.. Homecoming tonight 
versity Monday night, tl1e Irish arc in the driver's seat among indepen­
dents for an NCAA hid. 

Provided, ofcourse. that the com­ByWILLHARE llowcver. inconsistency has "Ron had the same situation. l.aimbeer, Bruce Flowers, Dave Bat· mittee decides to invite any .\j)()rfs Writer prevented Varner ti·om achieving When he was a freshman, ht· had a ton, to namt.· a few) have done in independents at all. 
Mardom in his linal campaign. lot of games. To see a whole fresh· year.~ past. IRISH ITEMS: There was a lot of 
Bill Varner has gone through ''I've hecn off and on as far a~ man class with live guys at each posi· <)therwise, Varner has many op­Irish tlavor to the Blue Demons' 65­some trving times throughout his ~hooting and defense are con­tion come in and then not get to plav tions as a Pre-Law/Communications 62 douhlc overtime !o~s co Ohio l . baskethall career at Notre Dame. t.Trned." he savs. "But. if my shoot· is hard to accept. .\1ajor. The Bobcats are coached hy Danny 
l'nlikt: many of his formt.·r and ing isn't going well, then I can help "I think if I was Ron, I would have But right now his sights are on a Nee, who wa~ an assistant here un­prc~t.·nt teammate~ tor the lrbh, he the team imide. I consider otfcnsive done the same thing," con.tinues positive lin ish li>r Notre Dame. der Digger Phclp' a few years hack. probably will not he selected in the rebounding my biggest asst.·t." Varner. "But, I wanted to stay here "To me. to go to the NCAA's and Also, the player who hit the winning first two rounds ofthe NBA draft. lie As a senior. Varner is tH:nlt:d to hit because I have a lot of friends l1t.·n: win the championship would be the free throws was none other than also has put up with too much time the clutch shots. If he docs have the and the way people an here is spe· grt.·att.·st thing that could happen," Paul Baron, brother of current Irish "riding the pines" his first two hot hand, the Irish lind le~.s pressure cial." Varner says. "If that doesn't happen. assistant coach Jim seasons here when he would have on the shooting tout. h of all­As for Varner's future, he strongly I just hope one year, even if I'm not a Baron ....Tonight's game will be been starting on most other NCAA American John Paxson and Price tksire~ a NBA tryout. I k also is part of Notre Dame. it happens." broadcast live on Channel 16 at H Division I teams. while the inside game opens up as consilkring going to Europt.· to play The rocky road that Varner has p.m. E~PN will rebroadcast the con­
This year. he has been plagued hy well. baskethall liJr a year on a trial basis travelnl here has not tarnished his test beginning at 12:30 a.m. inconsistency when he should he "If! have my shot, I'll take it," adds like several other Irish players (Bill outstanding attitude. Thursday. showing his senior experience. Varner. "lie (Phelps) hasn't told me 
But Bill Varner is still confident. when to shoot or when not to shoot. 
The 6-6 forward from New Ken· He is leaving it in my hands to deci<.k 'Well balanced' sington, Pa., knows good things can when. still happen to him as long as he con­''I'm comfortable the way I'm centrates from here on in. For one. playing even though I'm not scoring 
Varner remains upbeat despite inconsistency 
Critics applaud recruiting crop 
the NCAA tournament is lusting for that many points (9.9 points per the Irish, provided they do well in game). I know that there arc shots By DAVE IRWIN hecn since Leahy." others might have leaned towards the several key games left to be that I could take but it would seem .\jJOrts Writer Frank Leahy, you'll remember, one position," says Hadley, "This played. like I'm forcing them. I consider won or tied 39 straight games be­one is more well-rounded." 
One of chose key games will be myself a team player and I can't In the past, Gerry Faust has said tween 1946 and 1949. He was H7-"We fed this class will comple­tonight, when Varner returns home change that." that the Notrl' Dame team he in­l 1-9 in his I I years as coach. ment the other two," said Faust last to help his Irish battle Pittsburgh at Team player or not, Varner has herited from Dan Devine in I9H I On his second try at recruiting, Wednesday, the first day that prep the Civic Arena. been through his share ofhard times wasn't that big, wasn't that fast and Faust and his staff didn't match the players could officially commit to 
"We definitely must beat Pitt and at Notre Dame. wasn't that strong. I 3 Parade All-Americans they gar­any schools. DePaul to make the tournament," His first two seasons were difficult That may or may not he true. After nered the year before, but in the "Our primary concerns were says Varner. "The feeling is nice periods of adjustment. Being a all, Notre Dame was 9-2-1 the year eyes of the experts it wasn't far he­quarterbacks, tight ends, running going back home and playing in swingman, Varner rarely played before Faust arrived ht're, but to his hind. Most recruiting service~ con­backs and defensive backs," added front of my family and friends. I'm during his freshman campaign be­credit the Irish coach went out and sidered the Irish crop second in the Faust. "We wanted a couple of wide honored and excited to go hack and cause of the trio of small forwards­tried to recruit the type of players country. receivers, including one big wide play in front ofeveryone." big guard~ (Bill Hanzlik, Kelly necessary to play his style of foot­This year, Faust did it again. Ofthis receiver, and we needed some 
Varner's contribution to the Tripucka and Tracy Jackson) whose ball. year's 27 recruits, three are Parade defensive and offensive linemen for Notre Dame program has been a names now are announced in NBA Faust:s tirst attempt at recruiting All-Americans, I'! are listed among depth. ·We got everything we solid one. After averaging 10.0 arenas every evening. ( 19H I ) was nothing short of fantas· Adidas' I00 high school All· wanted except an outside lineback­points and 6.2 rebounds per game Even in his sophomore season. tic. He signed I 3 Parade All­Americans, 25 made Blue Chip's Sil· er." last year. he has maintained his num­Varner started just twice and Americans; the most Notre Dame ver List and I I were tabbed among And the Irish apparently ha\·cn't bers and has started all but four averaged only I 7 minutes of playing had ever signed bdi>re was seven. The .\jmrtinx Neu•s' top I00. lost out on their outside linehackcr games in the last two years. He has time a game. His situation was not That total surpassed the I I prep "It is unbdievable the three prospect either. Robert Banks, a 6·5, also raised his shooting percentage unlih· that of fellow Pittshurgh·er stars who signed withJohnny Majors recruiting classes he has had," says 2.10-poundcr and Parade All­(from -!:.5 percent to SH. I hetore Ron Rowan, who decided to forego at Tennessee in his first year. which John I Iadley of The .\j)()r/ing Neu•s. American. still li~ts Notre Dame last week's road trip). _ his homecoming game when he is believed to bt· the most Parade or "This one dctlnitdy stacb up among his possible choices. At least 
Because he and freshman made overtures toward transfcring hluc chips previously signt·d by any against the otht.·r two." Acconting to that'~ what Banks told the teammate Joseph Price normally to Penn State several weeks ago. school. !Iadiey, no one clst· plucked more Columbus (Ohio) Dispatch when have a decided height advantage "I made the decision to come here It also prompted Joe Marcin, the than tlve signees offSporting Neu•s' he was in Columbus Feh. I 0 to ac­over their opponent when playing and I had regret it throughout my veteran writer for Tbe Sportinx prestigious list." cept an award from the Touchdown guard, their offensive rebounding tlrst two years," says Varner. "I Neu·s to say, "This fall ( 19H I), there Hadley, although not complaining Club as the top high school player in has become an important part of decided to stick it out even though will he more football taknt on the too loudly, does lind some fault with 
See RECRUITING, page 10

Digger Phelps' game plan. my family wanted me to leave. Notre Dame campus than there has the Faust's tlrst two classes. "The 






