,-----­
.).~-.~-.-~-~··············~·· 
Cruise missile -page 5 

VOL XVIII, NO. 55 
APPhoto 
on Capitol Hill after the House f'f(jech!d a proposed revivaloftheEqualRightsAmendment. Rep. Lindy Boggs, D-La., left, cmd Rep. Patricia The 278-147 wte fell six short of the requimt 
Schroeder, D-Colo., meet with reporters Tuesday two-tbirris majorityforpassage. 

Business school given endowment 
faculty members from the Marketing college ofbusiness and marketing."

By RICHARD Pll.GER 
Department will select the Senior Mike Berry, marketing club
News Staff 
recipients based on academic president, commented, "The retail­achievement, extra-curricular ac­ing industry has much to offer the

An endowment fund for outstand­tivities, and contributions to the marketing student. With an endow­
ing Notre Dame business students 
department. ment and recognition program suchhas been established by the ex­The award itself will consist ofan as this, perhaps we can help the stu­pansive May Company of St. Louis. 
engraved plaque presented to the dents look more closely at the in­Stephen Lourie, a company repre­sentative. presented the initial 
winning student at a special dinner dustry as a viable option in determining career paths."

check of S2,500 last Friday. in the fall. The fund will be used to 
Marketing Department Chairman The May Department Stores Com­recognize up to three under­Mike Etzel praised the endowment pany is composed of eleven divi­graduate marketing majors each 
as a means "to acknowledge quality sions nationwide, which grossed student performance, and make stu­S3.6 billion last year. Several May
year. Eligible students may apply in the second semester junior year, and 
dents aware of opportunities in the Company stores, such as Famous Barr of St. Louis, are active at Notre Dame. They provide paid summer internships at positions comparable



Greek and Turkish 

to those of starting executives. On­campus interviews arc conducted by these stores in late February. 
armies prepare for war 

Lourie indicated that several uni­versities have received similar en­
Associated Press anonymity, said "a number of 

dowments from other May
military personnel have been placed 

Company divisions, and that, likeNICOSIA, Cyprus -President on partial alert." 
Notre Dame, they were selected be­Spyros Kyprianou yesterday ruled Turkish troops also were reported cause of excellence in their schools
out the use of force to reunify on alert. 

ofbusiness.
Cyprus, but Greek and Turkish Kyprianou blamed the new troops were reported on alert after Cyprus crisis on the Turkish military the Turkish-occupied sector of the government, which recognized the island declared itself independent. new state after an emergency 
Kyprianou, who is a Greek Cabinet meeting in Ankara. 
Cypriot, indicated he would ask the Authorities have closed the only UN. Security Council to impose crossing point on the heavily for­sanctions against Turkey and north­tified "green line" dividing the ern Cyprus. Greek and Turkish sectors of 
Turkey, which invaded the long­Nicosia. disputed Mediterranean island in But there was a remarkable lack of 1974, has 25,000 troops in the new­tension along the frontier. ly declared Turkish Republic of Greek Cypriot and Turkish 
Northern Cyprus -sent nine years Cypriot soldiers sunned themselves ago, ostensibly to protect the rights in the warm autumn weather ofCyprus' ethnic Turkish minority. outside their concrete bunkers in 
In Athens, Greek government full view of each other across a nar­spokesman Dimitrios Maroudas told row no man's land. n:porters the Socialist government Both Greece and Turkey are was "not contemplating to declare a members ofNATO.In Brussels Wed­mobilization or send warships to nesday the alliance expressed con­Cyprus" in reaction to the Turkish cern over this new point of tension Cypriot move. between the two countries, but 
Military sources in Athens said refused to get involved in efforts to 
army reservists in specialized units solve the problem. have been called up for duty along Kyprianou said"the usc offorce is Greece's northern border with not the answer, the answer is ef­Turkey. fective steps to change what has hap­
The sources, who requested pened." 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1983 


Council reviews examination code 
By MARK WORSCHEH and ment would not be satified or MARGARET FOSMOE replaced hy a series ofearlier exams, News Editors a take-home exam, a research paper 
or project. 
The University Academic Council •The final exam would be weighted opted yesterday to delay action on a for not "less than one-third or more series ofproposed major revisions of than two-thirds of the semester's the existing final exam policy. work in determining the final 
The proposed changes are the grade." The present policy specifies 
result ofa study conducted by a six­that the exam may not he worth member faculty hoard formed in more than one-third of the final March by University Provost grade. 
Timothy O'Meara. •Graduating seniors would no lon­
"The overriding consensus was ger be eligible for exemption from that there had not been enough dis­final exams if tht·y earned a "B" cussion on the committee's grade or higher during the semester. 
proposal within the University com­Graduating seniors arc currently munity," said Richard Conklin, eligible for such an exemption at the director of Information Services. discretion ofthe instructor. The meetingwas closed to the press. The proposal changes would not­The proposal will be sent to the affect graduate final exam policy he­
Faculty Senate, college councils and cause of "differences in graduate other campus organizations for dis­education in the various dis­cussion. ciplines," according to the report. 
Father james Burtchaell, profes­Burtchaell's presentation sor of theology, made a 30-minutc prompted an extended discussion presentation to the Cl'Uncil detailing by the Council. the committee report and proposals. "I expected that the discussion 
The suggestions in the report in­would be quite lengthly. Although I clude the following: hadn't anticipated canva.~ing the 
•The current policy that "a two­University community at large, I 
hour final examination must must be think that is an excellent turn of given at the time and place stip-events," Burtchaell said. ulatcd in the official exam schedule" would be enforced. This require-see EXAM, page 6 
Sports Illustrated 
writer to give lecture 
ByJENNIFERMD..LER such topics as brutalism. phantom News Staff courses, the hazards ofa.~troturf, and recruiting, according to Schmid. 
The Library Auditorium will be The writer ha.o; been the recipient the stage for Sport I 1/ustrated's john of several awards for his achieve­Underwood as he speaks on "The ments in exposing scandals in col­Decline in Multi-million Dollar lege athlete education, illigitimate Sport's Business and Crisis in Foot­money passed to amateur Olympic ball" tonight at 8. athletes, and the connection be­
Underwood, who has been tween organized crime and the termed "the conscience of sports," sports concession empire. has written articles for a numher of In the january I 0, 1983 issue of anthologies, includingBest ofSports Sports Illustrated, Underwood Illustrated, The Wonderful World published an in-dt·pth study ofNotre ofSports, and Best Sports Stories of Dame's athletic department. After the Year. His lecture, explains Stu­his study, he concluded that he dent Union academic commissioner admires Notre Dame's athletic Mary Margaret Schmid, "will be program more for its success in tur­primarily based on his most recent ning out educated athletes than for publication: The Death of an its victories. American Game." The lecture is being sponsored hy 
Underwood is expected to cover the Student Union. 
tween Turkish-Cypriot northern part and Greek­Cypriot southern part ofNicosia. 
-( 
The Observer Thursday, November 17, 1983 -page 2 



In Brie£ · 
• 
Astrong earthquakejotted the island omawaii yes­terday, damaging homes, breakinggas and water lines and disrupting telephone service. Four people suffered minor injuries. "It was ter­rible. The house shook like mad; I thought it was going to come down on me," said Mart.ha McNicoll of Hilo. "My house is a mess, everything is broken. I thought it would never quit." The quake, which struck at6:13 a.m., registered 6. 7 on the Richter scale, said the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center in Honolulu. Some residents said It lasted a full minute. It was centered on the southwest flank ofMauna Loa Volcano, about 70 miles southwest ofHilo, and did not generate a great wave on the Pacific, the center said. The quake was not an indication of an imminent eruption of Mauna Loa, said John Erick­son, spokesman for Hawaii Vokanos National Park. Scientists are predicting a major eruption at Mauna Loa within the next year. Many 
businesses in downtown 'iilo had broken windows and water pipes, and at least one gas main was broken, said Sgt. Charles Chai, watch l.Ommander at the Hilo police station. Police blocked offdowntown streets until mer<.·hants arrived at their stores. -AP 
Virginia has been spendingabout s26,ooo a 
day to contain the oily runoff from a pile of 7 million used tires that has been burning at a dump for more than two weeks. About $600,000 ha.~ been spent since the fire began 1o miles west of Winchester on Oct. 31. Mitzi Saverline, a spokeswoman at the state Office of Emergency and Energy Services, said Tuesday. More than 4'56,000 gallons of water and chemical runoff have been removed from around the fire, which is expected to burn for several more months. -AP 
Holy Cross Chapelat Saint Mary's will be reopened Sunday, says Director of Campus Ministry Thomas Reid, who su­pervised the minor renovations. "Statues which had been blocking windows were removed," Reid said. In addition, the chapel will have different chairs. "The old ones have been replaced by nicer ones from tht· Old College Church. Also a platform has been constructed fi>r an altar." added Reid. It replaces the old-style altar that was no longn appropriate. Reid said, "No formal ceremony ha.~ been planned to mark the reopening. Sunday masses will take place as u~ual." The chapel's renovaton was completed slightly behind 
schedule and was funded by the Campus Ministry's budget. -The Ohsen•er 
To improve relations between the administration and students, Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo is holding a series of Sunday night forums. The "60 Minutes" series, as it's called, will make a different administrator available for questioning t:vt:ry wt-ck. The program. which opened with Western Michigan Presidt•nt John Bernhard, was created by a group of resident ad­vist·rs. -The Ohsen,er 
Of Interest 
An Irish-American history expert, James \X'alsh, history professor at San Jose State University, will deliver a lccturt: entitled "Moving Up: The Irish in American Political Life" this aftt:rnoon at 4 in the Library Auditorium. Walsh, who was twice appointed Fulbright Scholar to the Republic of Ireland, has written sevt-ral artides on Irish-American history and is author offive hooks, induding "Ethnic Militancy: An Irish Catholic Prototype;" "The Irish: Amt:rica's Political Class;" and "The San Francisco Irish: 18'50­
I976." The lecture is sponsort:d by Notre Dame's Cushwa Center for till' Study of American Catholicism. -The Obsen,er 
"The Great National IndustrialPolicy Hoax" will ht: the topic ti>r a lecture by Richard McKenzie, Clemson economics professor and newspaper columnist. The talk, at 4:15 
p.m. today in the Library Auditorium, is open to the public. McKenzie has written for the Wall Streetjournal, Neu• York Times, Washington Post and National Review, and is currently a regular columnist for the Obsen•er in Charlotte, North Carolina. He is the author of several books. including the current "New World of Economics" and "Bound To Be Free." The lecture is the sixth in the Manville American Enterprise lecture series, which is intended to prt·sent outstanding speakers to examine critically the past, present and future of the American enterprise system. -The Observer 
Logan Center volunteers and Big Brothers arc working together on a program to bring 200 to 300 area children to Saturday's Notre Dame-Air Force game. Any student wishing to donate their student tickets to this cause will have the opportunity today and tomorrow in the North, South and Saint Mary's dining halls between 4:30 and 6:30p.m. -The Obsen•er 

Weather ··.~--· 
' ~· 
Becomingpartly sunny today High in the low to mid 40s. Mostly clear tonight. Low in the upper 20s to low 30s. Partly cloudy and warmer tomorrow. Highs in the upper 40s to around '50. -The Ohsert'er 


The Day After to reveal horrors of nuclear warfare 


The televison movieThe Day After has been called by some the most important contribution to the public's understanding ofnuclear war. 
Others, such as arch conservatives William Buckley, 
Rev. Jerry Falwell, and Phyllis Schlatly, have termed the 
movie peace-nik propaganda intended to scare persons 
into thinking the U.S. should capitulate to the Soviet 
Union. 

But no matter what anyone thinks about the implica­
tions ofTheDayAfter, no one can deny ABC executives 
think enough of the production to air their multi­
million dollar investment Sunday from 8-11 p.m. in 
hopes of getting U.S. moderates to make up their own 
minds about the dilemma ofnuclear war. 
Michael Brennan, founder of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's chapter of Ground Zero, saw the movie last month and calls it "a landmark movie which will bring nuclear war into America's living rooms." Ground Zero, which calls itself a "non­advocacy, non-partisan nuclear war education project," sees the movie as an expression of"horrors of that which we would rather not think about," according to Brennan. 
University professors and administrators share Bren­nan's beliefthat the movie is a major event, so big in fact, that Sr. Elaine DesRosiers, director of Educational Media, has planned to show the The Day After on a S 16,000 TV projector in the Engineering Auditorium. And she expects an overflow house for the free showing. 
But the event will not stop when the movie ends. ABC will devote its "Nightline" program on Sunday to a panel discussion of the movie. Among those invited to participate arc former Secretary of State Henry Kissin­ger, scientist Carl Sagan, and former Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara. 
Ground Zero and the Center for Social Concerns at 
Notre Dame also are planning a discussi<in of the film 
Monday at 7 p.m. to give proponents and opponents of 
nuclear war a chance to air their comments on the 
movie. 

At the discussion, communications and theatre department chairman Mitch Lifton and physics profes­sor Bill McGlinn will appraise the film according to the succt~ss of its dramatic effects and the factuality of its scientific content. 
ABC has prepared a viewer's guide to the movie which indudes a synopsis ofthe plot, sample discussion 
,___The_Obs.er_xer_ 
Composition Editer......................... Carolc Composition Assistant.. Chris and Marty Typesetters ................................. Vic and Ted Neu•s Editor............................................ Mary Cop_v Editor.............................................. Dan Sports Copy Editor........ Party Dave's Best 
Friend Features Copy Editor............................ P.-te ViewptJint ............................................... Tom ND Day Editor................................. Melinda SMC !Jay Editor .....................................Jody Ad Oesigtz ................................................. Paul PhfJIO!!,rapher .......................................... Pete Guest Appearatzces .... Beverly Hillbillies, the Atwellian Process, Ted via phone, four cheesestcaks and a girl named Mar­garet 
Quote ofthe Day 

Well/ woke up this morning I got myselfa beer Cause thefuture's uncertain And the end is always near 
The Doors 
The Observer USPS (599 2-4000JI is published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except durmg exam and vacation penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year ($t5 per semester) by writmg The Observer. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of The Anoc:l8ted Preaa. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 
questions, and a selected bibliography. Free copies of the guide are available at the Center for Social Con­cerns. 
Two notable resources for the film include an Arts and Letters Core Course book, Jonathan Schell's The Fate of the Earth, and a Congressional study, "The Ef­fects ofNuclear War." 
The movie, says Brennan, is not without f:!:;!!~. Brennan says the film is "somewhat condeS<.c::namg 
to the American public" as it presents the horrors of nuclear war "in the context ofa contemporary American soap opera." 
Yet ABC defends its tech­nique, saying entanglements in the private lives of five Kansas City residents stand to make the movie· more human and more painful than highly technical programs which examine the effects ofnuclear war on black and white graphs. 
The film transforms 38­year-old memories of the destruction of Hiroshima and Nagasaki into realistic screams from men and women who melt into the ground as the first missiles explode over U.S. cities. 

Brt:nnan also criticizes the movie because it "assumes no knowledge ofnuclear war." Such criticism assumes an audience is well-acquainted with the atomic weapons debate. Most Americans, unlike college stu­dents, have little spare time to discuss effects ofnudear warfare. 
Although the movie probably will not change the minds of those committed to either the pro-or anti­nuclear camps, the vast majority of undecided Americans who watch the movie should undoubtedly be forced to decide what they really think about nuclear war. And what they find out about the effects of nuclear warfare may not be what President Reagan wants them to discover. 
See related article, page 7 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, The Observer Thursday, November 17, 1983-page 3 
New manager enlivens Senior Bar operations 
ByJOHN MCGREEVY 
News Staff 
The appointment of M.J. Murray as part-time administrator oversee­ing the Senior Bar. has given the es­tablishment a continuity it has lacked in previous years, according to bar staff members. 
Since last July, Murray has been in charge of both the financial and managerial aspects ofthe bar. In pre­vious years, Senior Bar was managed by four student administrators. It is now managed by Murray and three students. 
Mark Ruelhman, a current student manager, said, "Senior Bar is simply being run more efficiently now. If something went wrong in the past, there was more of a panic atmos­phere because there was no con­tinuity in personnel. The financial records and organization are also much better." 
Murray, herself, is extremely hap­py with the organization of the bar this year. "The operation ofthe bar is a huge job; this is a big facility. It doesn't let the students do much else if they have complete respon­sibility." 
"In the past, this responsibility, which is a privilege, had been abused but I have been over­whelmed with the maturity that the students have shown working here. The managers and bartenders have done an outstanding job. So far, they have lived up to the challenge laid out to them three months ago: to run the bar properly." 
Comparing the management of the bar to that ofa dormintory, Mur­ray said, "Imagine what would hap­pen ifnot only the RA's left each year but the rectors did also." She added that managing the bar is much easier when someone with experience can offer advice on problems related to the situation. 
In discussing the financial situa­tion of the bar, Murray stressed its service aspect. "The bar is not a profit or loss institution. It is an or­ganization that offers a service to the students." Murray added that the bar attempts to promote responsible drinking, not simply selling as much alcohol ·as possible. 
Murray also observed that Senior Bar is trying to broaden its appeal and become mor:e ofa well-rounded club. New attractions include Chicago-style pizza, hot pretzels, an upgraded stereo system and live disc jockeys. The facility also houses video games, outdoor seating and a dance floor. 
Both Ruehlman and Murray feel that the response of the seniors to the bar has been positive, on the whole. "Our goal," said Ruehlman, "is to show seniors that Senior Bar is a great place. We think we're seeing a growing number offaces at the bar this year. We would like Senior Bar to be the place to be." 
Recent events at the bar to en­courage student attendance have in­cluded Budweiser nights, Halloween parties, special liquor promotions and wine-tasting parties. Plans are also being made in conjunction with student govern­ment for another non-alcoholic un­dergraduate night. 
Special to The Observer 

Kentucky Basketball Coach Joe B. Hall now owns a piece of Notre Dame's old fieldhouse floor, thanks to a Notre Dame alumnus. 
Jack Considine of Lexington, Ky., a 1949 graduate, presented the 


Beth Villars Brenda Shearman Pam Hertel (Three former Regis stylists) 


But We Haven't Gone Too Far!! 
SHEAR STYLE 
Now Open at 423 W. McKinley in the Federal Square 
256.5047 

(Located across from the Mish. K-Mart Auto Center) Watch for our Grand Opening celebration coming soon!! Mention this ad for a discount 

'lht:Oboerver/P!:lt' lah.-s 

Bricks and otherprecious relics were snatched in droves by students and passers-by alike when the huilding was demolished last spring 
Kentucky coach given ND souvenir 
souvenir to Hall at a meeting of the "The stains were too old for analysis, Lexington Rotary Club, on behalf of but we figured it had to be Wildcat the Notre Dame Club of Central blood." Kentucky. Considine is founder of Kentucky, coached by the late 
his local alumni club and president­Adolph Rupp, played many hard­elect ofthe Rotary. fought games on the fieldhouse The inscription on the gift said it floor. The fieldhouse was torn down 
was "in recognition of a great series in March, and a mall was put in its between two great schools." place. Hall-coached teams never "I also toldJoe that we found a few played on the floor. blood stains on it," said Considine. 
New dry cleaning shop opens at Saint Mary's 
ByJENNIFER BIGOTI 
News Staff 
S& S Dry Cleaners is now open for business at Saint Mary's, accordimg to Earl May, director of purchasing at the College. 
Under owner Harold Niemer, the new store will provide a drop­off/pick-up service very similiar to the previous cleaners, wto left two weeks ago due to a disagreement about next year's contract. 
Alterations, repairs, and summer storage off-campus will be provided by the company, along with regular cleaning services. The store is'open Monday through Friday from 1 to 5 p.m., and Saturday from 10 a.m. to 12 noon. 
One notable aspect of the new cleaners is the absence of a shoe repair service. However, there has been a good student response to the cleaners, said S & S employee Ellen Aiken. 
"I think it's great that they're going to be open on Saturday, be­cause it's hard to find time during the week to get the laundry done," said freshman Coquis Casavantes of McCandless hall. 
Campus Cleaners, operated by Sandy Shawhan, left after seven years of service due to a contract dispute involving the locking system on campus, according to May. "Since we couldn't come to an agreement she asked to be moved out at the end ofOctober," he stated. 
May, along with Saint Mary's Con­troller jason Lindower, had the final word on the new cleaners opening on campus. 
NDprofessor approves of new King holiday 
ByJOAN GillLIN 
·News Staff 
Martin Luther King deserves to be 
only the second American honored 
with a national holiday in his 
memory, according to Edward 
Goerner, a pwfessor of government 
and international studies. 
Goerner said King merits the 
honor, previously held only by 
George Washington, because "he 
represents a major coming-to­
consciousness that we haven't yet 
fully solved in this society." Goerner 
noted that King had earned the pres­
tigious distinction because he "took 
a powerful and moving stance on the 
race problem." 
King, a celebrated civil rights 
leader was assassinated in a 
Memphis, Tenn., motel in 1968. 
The bill saluting the slain activist 
would designate the third Monday 
in January as a federal holiday. 
Goerner said that he didn't think 
that the hill should be held up to al­
low history to put King's achieve­
ments into perspective, an objection 
raised by some Senate members, 
saying, "the interest in the holiday 
now is both to honor King and to call 
attention to the fact that we haven't 
yet solved the race problem; it is still 
with us." 
Goerner continued that in the 
case of George Washington s 
holiday, "there was not any burning 
public problem with Washington s 
action that needed to be addressnl 
immediately, and he was honored 
simply because he deserved it." 
President Reagan is expected to approve the bill, which begins offi­cial observation of the holiday in January, 1986. . 
~ -.... --.. ---.... :. ----.... ----·' 
--------------~---------­
The Observer Thursday, November 17, 1983 -page 4 

ritl(t/ ofc.misemissilesat theGreenlxm1 Comrm:m An elderlr protestor, c:arr)'ing a cross bearing 
Grenadian radio. 
airbase in Engkmd, Tuesday. 

the tUJmes ·.,Himshinut" arul "Nagasaki" is led 
"The Governor General was only trying to prevent any potential dan­ger to security," said Rushford, a constitutional law expert who drafted the constitution under
GI's coming home for Christmas 
which Grenada gained indepen­
Associated Press 
WASIIIN<JTON President Reagan won't ask for authority to kt·ep li.S. troops in <irenada past the Christmas deadline set by Congress. btTause the administration t.·xpects all combat forces to bt· withdrawn behlrt' then, a White llouse spokes­man said yt·stc:rday. 
IIoust· and Senatt· kaders arc: split on whc:tht-r to allow Am.:rican lim.T~ 10 rl·main on the isl<~nd under the War Powers Act. But tht.· ad­ministration·~ plan would avoid an­othn confrontation likt.· tht· one that re~ultnl in the comprombe with Congrt·s~ in SqHember that allownl 
l .s. marine!'> to stay in Ld1anon tilr 


PHOTO ART SALE 
taken by National Geographic Photographers &other Beautiful Christmas Gifts 
Prices: $2 to $15 Dates: Nov. 21-22 Mon.-Tues. Location: Student Union Lobby SMC Lemons Hall 

I H mon: months. 
Larry Speakes, the spokesman, said, "We have indicated to the Congress that there is no need for any congressional action, in our opinion, on war powers. We don't anticipate: there will be any addition­al hostilities, and combat troops will be: out, as Department of Defense said, before the 60-day period expires." 
The: 1973 War Powers Act re­quires the: president to withdraw troops within 60 days from situa­tions ofcombat or imminent danger of hostilities. unlc:ss Congress declares war or authorizes an exten­sion. 
"We do not at·knowlcdgc: the need for a 60-day pt.-riod," Speakes 

John Underwood: Sports Illustrated's Conscience 
The decline of multi-million dollar sports business and the crisis in football 
"Big business ethics and the war ethics of 
coaches/players are producing a climate of 
permissiveness that is running football" 
Thursday Nov 17 8 pm, Lib. Aud. Sponsored by Student Union Academic Comm. 
L__ 
Grenadan officials not strict on enforcement 
Associated Press 

ST. GEORGE'S, Grenada -When Sir Paul Scoon assumed control of Grenada's government following the U.S.-kd invasion, he issued a proclamation granting police sweeping emergency powers, ban­ning public meetings and imposing a nighttime curfew. 
"But the: phrase 'emergency powers' didn't mean a thing." says the new legal adviser to Scoon and the newly formed Advisory Council which will govern the tiny Carib­bean spice island until elections can be held. 
"They (the powers) were only temporary and not really enforced," said Anthony Rushford, the English lawyer hired through the British Commonwealth to advise: the new civilian administration in Grenada, a former British colony and a Com­monwealth member. 
Government documents indicate that when Scoon proclaimed a state of emergency on Nov. 4, a set of regulations was published by the Government Printing House outlin­ing his powers and broadcast by 
dence in 1974. said, but "combat troops will be out" "Arresting persons without neces­nonetheless. sarily bringing them to trial will not 
Shortly after the U.S.-led invasion be continued any longer than neces­of Grenada on Oct. 25, Congress sary." invoked the War Powers Act which He said he thought this detention meant American troops must be would last only another week or withdrawn by Dec. 24. two. But neither Rushford, Police 
Speakes would not say whether Commissioner Patrick MacLeish nor the administration regards military individual members of the Advisory construction workers, military Council could say how many arrests police or medical personnc:l as had been made by police under the "combat troops" under terms of the emergency edict. law. At the time of the invasion, about 
100 political opponents of Marxist Prime Minister Maurice Bishop's were in prison. Bishop was killed Oct. 19 following a coup by more militant member~ of his govern­ment. The invasion occurred six days later. 
The U.S. embassy said Tuesday the military prisoner-of-war camp at Point Salines had processed 530 Grenadian~ and 600 Cuban prisoners since the Oct. 25 invasion and will bt.· dismantled. 
Embassy spokesman Jim Dandridge said the Cubans were sent to Havana while all but 40 ofthe Grenadians were released. Those 40 were turned over to Grenadian au­thorities and sent to Richmond Hill Prison in St. George's. 
Rushford and the Council's tem­porary chairman, Nicholas Braith­waite. a former chief education officer in Grenada, indicated that the panel would be considering the pos­sibility of continuing, modifying or eliminating the emergency powers in the next few days. 
"There is bound to be an dement ofpolitical tension during a situation such as this," said Rushford. "Some people may want not to cooperate with the civil government, and these would certainly be picked up." 
He said the temporary restraint on public gatherings was considered necessary at the time it was issued but may no longer be valid. 
And he indicated the nighttime curfew "was simply an exortation by the Governor General: 'please stay off the streets.' It was never en­forced. It was never meant to be." 
The informal curfew's hours were from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m., but they were ignored by virtually everyone who had a need to be out at night. 
Five of the nine members of the new Council were sworn in Tuesday at Government House, Scoon's residence. Scoon plans to hold elec­tions in about six months. 
A White House task force arrives in Grenada today to discuss long­term, economic aid. 

EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. 
ANDOPENTHEDOORTOATOP 
ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
. ----~-------:--; ----···~~-------· -.: 
How many corporations would be willil&g to pay you ovtr SIOOO a r.nonth durin)! your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company :~iter graduatil)n·~ l'ndN a sr>f'cial ~avy program we're doing just that. Ic·s called che ~uclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-Colitgc Protcram. And undN it. you'll not only get grf'at pay during your junior and St:ntur ~-~ars. but ait<.>r gradu01tion )'ou'll receive a year o{ ,-aluable ~raduate·il'\'CI training that is not a\'ailable from any other employer. 
II you aw a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or ph_\'sicill scienc~'!'\, find out more today. And let your career pay o(f while Mill in college. 
Furmore informrtion. call the t-:a'-·al Management Programs OfficE at: 
Call Toll Free 1-800-382·3782 

Navy Representative-will be on campus November 30 and December 1, 1983 
·-------·----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, November 17, 1983 -page 5 

Russians to deploy cruise missiles 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The Soviet llnion is expected to deploy its own version of the American cruise nuclear missile next year aboard its Yankee­class submarines, the authoritative jane's Defense Review reported yes­terday. 
The magazine, published by the prestigious jane's publishing house, said the missile, labeled the SSN-X­21, "makes every Soviet submarine a potential strategic weapons carrier." 
Though its guidance system will be less sophisticated than the U.S.­
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Bishop George Fulcher ofLafayette, Ind., met briefly yesterday with a Soviet Embassy offi­cial inside the embassy, but the aide rebuffed the Catholic bishop's effort to deliver thousands ofletters plead­ing for exit visas for three Soviet built Tomahawk cruise missile, the SSN-X-21 "reportedly uses turbofan (propulsion) and microelectronic technology which the Soviets have obtained from the West," the Defense Review said. It did not elaborate and did not disclose the source ofits information. 
NATO plans to deploy 464 land­based cruise missiles and 108 Pershing-2 ballistic rockets in Wes­tern Europe over the next five years. The first of the cruise missiles arrived Monday at Greenham Com­mon lJ.S. air base west ofLondon. 
Cruise is a generic label for slow missiles that fly at roughly the speed of a commercial jetliner at low a!­
titutes to evade enemy radar. Ballis­tic missiks fly many times faster and rocket high into the atmosphere bef<ire stabbing down at their tar­gets. 
The American Tomahawk cruise weapon is ground-launched. It con­tains a sophistic~ted computer guidance system that follows an electronic map to keep the missile hugging the ground until it strikes its target. 
It has a range of I,500 miles, a margin oferror at its target ofjust 50 yards and a warhead of 200 kilotons -16 times times the destructive power of the bomb that leveled Hiroshima. 
Indiana bishop meets Russians 

~ ~RID(jfT ~C(jUIRfS 
~ 
·­

Sat.Afternoon
Mon. &Tues. 

Wed. 
Fri. & Sat. 

Watch the NO vs.
25¢ BEER 

2 for 1 
Beat the Clock 
Housedrinks start at 

Air Force game
Housedrinks
7 ·10 
SOc: and go up 10e 

with us and drink
Happy Hour 4-7 

Thurs. 
every hour
Mon.-Fri. 
$2.50

$1 Molsons 
Draft Pitchers 


OLD 

citizens. Fulcher had hoped to talk ith Soviet Ambassador Anatoly 
Dobrynin, but  met  instead with  a  
low-level  embassy  aide  for  ten  
minutes.  

Fulcher said the Soviet aide believes the letter-writing campaign by Lafayette area residents was ·an at­tempt to link the visas with the issue ofnuclear weaponry. 

"He says he thinks that's playing on people's fears and that's propaganda," he said. "And that's not addressing the issues as they should be," according to the aide, he said. 
MILWAUKEE•. CASE 
~~-SCHLITZ••••. CASE 699 Red, White 519 
& Blue•..••.CASE P~B~T .• ~-•• CASE 649 
KIEG BEER

2899
Strohs. ________ 

9'1 . 21:9~
ml waukee._· ~ 
WINE Riunite..._.._. 750 ML 2.69 Boones Farm...750 ML 1.49 Carlo Rossi.. __ ..4 Ltr. 4.99 M&R Asti. -..••750 ML 7.59 Vivante..._..... 4 Ltr. 4.89 
Kessler_ ___1so ML 4.99 TANQUERAY GIN-------750 ML 8.99 
Popov Vodka_ 1.75 7.49 
SmimoH 
Vodka _______,1.75 9.99 
Baileys ' 
Irish Cream--__ ·1 0.49 
Hiram Walker 
Schnapps__ 75o ML 4.79 
Bellows Gin _______ 1.75 Ltr. 8.99 
POP Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Mtn. Dew, Pepsi free, Dr. Pepper 
$7.49 CASE 
'I111.· ( l!~:rwr/Pc.1~ !"""""

Go blow your horn Facul~J' member Marshall Scott bemlds an audience offacul~)' and students at a trumpet concert gil'ell yesterdc~v in the Annen­burg, sponsored by tbe Department of Music. 
.Ihe·ObseO!er _ 
is accepting applications for the position of PRODUCTION MANAGER 
For detai Is, ask David or Margaret at 
Ihe ObseL\!er
_  __  
office.  
Deadline: 5 p.m. Thursday,  Nov. 17.  

SUNNYSIDE BEVERAGES 
-----------DRAFT BEER-----------­BRAHD COST D£POSIT TOTAL
ACROSS STREET 
FROM CAMPUS 1/2 BARREL 
1340 S. Bend Ave. 
234·1114 
~REE POSTERS SCHLITZ 
SCHLI Tl L T OLD mNAUKEE OLD "ILVAUY.H Ll SCHLITZ "AU LIQUOR
OPEN TILL 
SCHLI Tl DAil~ "OLSON· TAX
5:00 Weekdays 
ALREADY INCLUDED 
HllllP 
~2:00 Saturdays KEG BAG HAND PUftP CUPS 1/1001 CUPS 1/CSE 10001 ICE liB LB BGI TU8 COIL BOI ELECTRIC BOI tt 
GO IRISH!! 
~OPSE TAN~ 
PABST PABST lLT ANDEY.ER BLATZ OLD smE OLD STYLE L T SP, EXPORT DRENRYS BRAUHEISTER AUGSBURGER HUBER 
29.50 30.50 31.50 27.00 31.00 32.00 35.00 27.00 25.00 31.00 25.00 
JI.SO 
32.50 29.00 )0.00 34.00 31.50 53.00 
70.~ 
2.00 J. 00 4.00 
:.z.so 
2. so 
J.fl(l so. (IQ 
60.(•(1 
IS.IJO 
-~­
6, 00 J~. s~ 6.00 36. so b. 00 40. so 6.00 Jl. 00 6. 00 37.00 6. 00 38.00 6. 0(1 41.00 6. 00 33.00 6.ll0 31.00 
6.00 Jl.OO 6.00 ll. 00 
6.00 J:.SQ b. 0(1 39. SQ b.OO 15.00 6.0(1 3b.OO b. 00 40. OQ 6.0(1 31.50 6.00 59.00 6.oo 76.00 
2.00 )(1, 00 33. ~0 •• 01) 32. ~0 
2. so IS.O:IO 18.00 70.~0 12!1. !~) 
6(1, 00 35.00 SOJ10 

Thursday, November 17, 1983-page 6 
The Observer 

Feminist leader declared innocent 
Ao;.">ociated Press 
<iRETNA. La. -A jury found C.ilifornia ft.·minist leader Ginny Foat innocent yesterday of murder­ing an Argt.·ntine businessman IH years ago, rejt.·cting as lies tht· tes­timony hy her ex-husband who had implicated her. 
"Thank you, thank you, evnyone," Foat, 42, said to friends and supportt.·rs who t·heered in the packed state Distrit·t Court d.amher -as the jury rl.'!urnnl its verdict after less than two hours ofdeliberations. 
The six-man, six-woman jury had gotten the case after a plea from Foal's attorneys to look on John Sidote. her t.·x-hushand anU the prosecution''> star witness, as "a nazy man and a liar." 
Foat was chargt·d with dubbing 
• • • Exam 
continued/rom page 1 
"It would he more helpful to ex­tt·•Jd our consideration of it long enough for the faculty at large to ht-comt.· aware of the report and to l'llnsider it and t.·xpress their own thoughts on the matter," he said. 
Mkhac:l Smith, one of five student 
rt.·prcst·nt:~tives on the council, said 
"The tt.·c:Iing of tht.· Council was that 
there was not enough input by stu­
t.knts and faculty." Tht.· St.·nior noted 
that many of the professors who 
questionnl tht· proposal were from 
the Colkge ofArts and Lt·ners. 
Smith called the Council meeting "very t·onst ructive." n<iting 1 hat tht.· committt·t·'s primary objenive is "just improving the l 'niversity." 
Philip Gleason. professor of his­tory and another member of the council. said "A good number of people: wen· in agreement that it was a good issue to he raised." <ikason said he kit the outn>me of mt.-cting was "very satisfactory." 
Burtchaell said he did not expect the council to vott· on the proposal yt.·sterday. Tht.· proposal, he said, "raist·s very largt.· pnlagogical issues, and it's btTn so long since the Coun­cil has had tht.· opportunity to dis­n•ss something pedagogical." 
r-----------------­
! LEE'SRIBS 
I 
1I Buy two regular 1 dinners and receive I $2 off with this 
I 
1 coupon. 
1
I I 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I Expires 11-18-83 I 
L------------------1 
OVERSEAS JOBS 
Summer/year round. Europe, S. Amer., Australia, Asia. All fields. $500-$1200 monthly. Sightseeing. free info. Write IJC, Box 52-IN4, Corona Del Mar, CA 92625 
• 1 
j. ~--­
MICHIAIIA UnERY 
501 E. Sample 
213-2590 10% Discount with university ID 
IIH l (..HARlJING II STARTING SVSifM CHfCI< 
Argentine toymaker Moises Chayo 
to death with a tire iron in a New 
Orleans suburb in 196S while rob­
bing him of $1,400 cash. 
Jurors said the verdict was unani­mous for acquittal on the first vote. 
After the verdict was read, Foal was mobbed by people from the audience offering congratulations. Even members of the jury ap­proat.·hed her, some asking her to aut<.>graph placemats which they had picked up at lunch. 
"We covered all the angles. There was no disagreement," juror Anna Marie Whited said. "We voted. There was just one vote." 
Defense lawyer John Reed told the jurors, "You arc a wonderful jury. You were just great. This is why we have juries." 
When the verdict was announced Foal dropped her head to the table in relief, then jumped up and started hugging her two attorneys. 

"You now have the rest of your life, tht· rest ofyour life," said her 72­year-old mother, Virginia Galluzzo of New Paltz, N.Y. 
"She is tlnally free, she is finally free," said her sister Emilia Guigi, also ofNew Paltz. 
Had the jury found her guilty of murder, she could have been sen­tenced to life in prison. A manslaughter verdict could have brought a 21-year term. 
Sidote, serving an unrelated prison term in Nevada, was promised immunity from prosecu­tion in the Chayo case in return for his cooperation. 
Sidote testified that she lured Chayo out of the bar and the two of them killed him after robbing him .of the money he carried to pay his son's hospital bill. 
Assistant District Attorney Tom Porteous said the jury was being misled if it accepted Foal's attempts to picture herself as a weak person dominated by someone else. 

Bring Out Your Best... 

That's our philosophy at Anheuser­Busch. and that's the opportunity we're offering you in terms of a meaningful and rewarding career to look forward to Bringing out the best in our people demands creative management. well­defined career objectives. reasons to succeed. and tangible rewards for doing so. Some call it winning. We call it tradi­tion If you'd like the opportunity to bring out your best, consider the fol­lowing fast track challenges. 
B.S.M.E.-CENTRAL ENGINEERING If you're on your way to a B.S M.E. degree. we'll provide you with the opportunity to advance in such diverse fields as material handling, equipment layout. piping system development. steam generation. com­pressed air systems, ventilation. heat­ing and air conditioning. and high speed bottle and can packaging. 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 

B.S.E.E.-CENTRAL ENGINEERING Individuals graduating with a B.S.E.E. degree can expect involvement in such areas as electrical machine design and application. power distribution, sub­station layout along with industrial and commercial lighting, electrical control circuits and systems control. 
And You'll Both of these CENTRAL ENGI­NEERING opportunities are project­oriented, and present the challenge of 
taking the project from conception through completion 
Come Out 
HOW TO BRING OUT YOUR BEST
A Winner. 
Anheuser-Busch representatives will be interviewing on campus: 
Thursday, December I, 1983 
To reserve your personal interview 
time. sign up at the campus Plac~ment 
Office We'll fake you further. Faster 
• 
The Observer Thursday, November 17, 1983 -page 7 

Soldiers loyal to Yasir Arafat fire 84mm mortar into rebel PLO and Syrian-backed positions duringfighting in Tripoli Tuesday. 

Welcome Football Fans & Local Patrons Specializing lnr Prl._ .. 
-............. 
Yovr favorite Caddcfil1, fqmfly Rooma ,nd Private EntrtNe. Banquet·RQOma .~vallable with ~.to ·-Create Your ~Menu. 

--gQowettg ~tr aQQ occogLong" 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway 232-33541 
GET LUCKY~ Rannisters 
U LOUNGE 
2 for 1 APPY HOUR 
~Monday thru Friday 2:00pm to 7:00pm 10:00pm to Close 

~Saturday 
JO:OOpm to Close 
Hors d' oeuvres Monday thru Friday 4:00pm to 7:00pm 
a~ll~'4 
~ ~ \diARF. 
~ ~ ~olfax, at the River, East Bank, 234-4477 
~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Guerrillas run Arafat's fighters from last stronghold in Mideast 
Associated Press 

TRIPOLI, Lebanon -Guerrilla mutineers drove Yasser Arafat's fighters out of their last Mideast stronghold in fierce hand-to-hand combat at the Baddawi refugee camp yesterday. 
At the same time, Israelis flew reprisal raids against Moslem ex­tremist bases 'ln Lebanon's Bekaa Valley. 
Unconfirmed radio reports said 100 were killed and 600 wounded in the final Syrian-backed onslaught on Baddawi, and that 33 were killed and 80 wound~td in the Israeli air strikes on the Janta and Shaara camps in the Bekaa Valley, just three miles from the Syrian border. 
At least 1,000 people were reported killed in the first week of the PLO war in Tripoli, which broke out Nov. 3. On Nov. 6 the mutineers overran the loyalist camp ofNahr el­Bared, and Arafat's men fled to Bad­dawi. It was not known how many loyalists were in Baddawi when the mutineers fought their way in. 
"They entered the camp in the early afternoon," said one Palestine Liberation Organization official who tsked not to be named. "Eventually, we had to get out. We can't match them." 
The official said that some clashes continued on the southern edge of Baddawi after nightfall, hut "very limited." 
Arafat appeared at his headquar­ters in Tripoli early in the afternoon, but made no public statement. He left the headquarters a few minutes later, along with his military adviser, Khalil Wazir, for another location in Tripoli. 
The beleagured Arafat has said he will leave Tripoli only Hhen he has guarantees of safety for his fighters and Palestinian civilians. He has given his probable destination as Tunis, where he set up headquarters 1c; months ago after the Israelis forced him and his guerrillas out of Beirut. 
Beirut radio said the mutineers were led by Ahmed Jibril, the head of a small, radical PLO faction backed by both Syria and Libya, which accuse Arafat of abandoning military struggle against Israel. The attack began with a Syrian artillery assault, followed by either a Syrian or rebel tank charge. 
Just after noon, the camp ap­peared to he surrounded except for an area to the south and southeast, where heavy fighting raged. 
As reporters watched from a ridge just south of the camp, she!ls from the rebel side crashed into the camp, into orange groves near the sea on the camp's western edge. and into Tripoli itself. 
The loyalists in Baddawi fired with multiple rocket launchers and ami-aircraft guns that had their muzzles lowered to meet the attack. 
Israeli jets pounded Shiite Mos­lem guerrilla bases near Lebanon's border with Syria in reprisal for the suicide bombing Nov. 4 that killed 29 Israelis and 32 Lebanese prisoners in Tyre, and two others Oct. 23 that killed 239 American and 58 French troops in Beirut. 
Military sources quoted hy Israel radio said Israel launched the air strikes after it became clear the United States did not intend to retaliate for the Oct. 23 bombing of the Marine headquarters. 
A U.S. official, speaking on condi­tion he not he named, said the United States would not comment on possible retaliation, and that it was not consulted in advance about the Israeli raid. 
Senate defeats tuition tax credit bill 
'\ssociated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Senate, by a 59-38 vote yesterday, spurned P T resident Reagan's call for speedy enactment of tuition tax credits for parents ofprivate-school children. 
Calling the vote "a sharp blow to tuition tax credits," Sen. Robert Dole, R-Kan., said supporters would have to do a lot ofwork and organiz­ing before bringing up the matter again. 
He said he proposed the legisla­tion at Reagan's request. "It's a mat­ter he had on his must list," Dole told reporters after the vote. 
Hoping to leave town Friday for a lengthy recess, senators tabled a mo­tion to add the legislation to a minor Olympic games bill when op­ponents threatened a filibuster against it and the prospect of numerous amendments arose. 
Dole, who introduced the amend­ment, said Reagan "reaffirmed the strong commitment he's had for a long time, emphasizing the impor­tance of this on the president's agenda." He said Reagan especially wanted the Senate to express itself on the issue this year "b•~cause he made a pledge over a year ago that we'd have a vote." 
The president, terming the legisla-

Go! Notre Dame 
! 
"BLAST' Air Force! • 
~::'.~ ~~ ~('::rr;o~~-~ 
..~~-~ ~ ~'v~~ 
the Planu and Flowers ebop Ban•ent• Le•aneHall. SMC Caeh a Carry Evavdav Low Prlc-
J~.~
'i,.l,'-.;~.1 
-~ :7:
,''-' 
~--~~-~~ 
~~:J) ~~ 
~1~ 
Ro••: SIO/dOL A ap 
Sw..tlaeutRoeee: $6.50I doz. A ap caDfor •orelafo:'-284-4597 
WIRE SERVICE NOW AVAILABLE 
senators seeking support for it. 
But concern over the $200 billion federal deficit af well as the timing of the proposal marked the debate along with arguments over whether the credits would reduce support for the public school system. 
The legislation would allow parents of pupils in private elemen­tary and secondary schools a tax credit for up to halfofa school's tui­tion, 
The credit, a dollar-for-dollar reduction from taxes owed, would start at a maximum $100 for tuition paid for the 1983 school year, rising to S200 in 1984 and S300 in 1985. 
The maximum credit would be availabfi'''Only for families with gross income of less than $40,000 a year. There would be no credit for those with incomes above the $50,000 level. Saying the legislation would cost about $800 million each year by the time it became fully effective, Dole acknowledged "these costs are not insignificant" but added that they would be "a sound and prudent investment in our nation's future." 
He said families that send their children to private schools must bear a double burden in having to support the public schools with their taxes at the same time. And he said the legislation was weighted to help those in the lower-and middle­income brackets. 
But Sen. Ernest F. Hollings, D-S.C., a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, contended the legislation would "rip a revenue hemorrhage in the economic fabric" and called it "a ripoff for the rich" that would undermine the public school system. 
Sen. John P. East, R-N.C., responded that "this is not at odds with the public school system. ...What we're trying to do is in­troduce or give encouragement to greater pluralism, diversity and competition in the American educa­tion system." 
Parents warned of ABC film 
Associated Press 
These days before "The Day Af­ter" have thousands of teachers and parents across the nation preparing for the fallout from a TV movie about nuclear war that they say could trig­ger nightmares, depression and hopelessness in young children. 
The film, to be telecast at 8 p.m. 
EST Sunday on ABC, depicts in grap­
hic detail what might happen in the 
days before, during and after a 
nuclear strike on Kansas City, Mo. In 
one scene, a class of grade-school 
children is irradiated, their bodies 
turning into glowing skeletons. 
The network's last-chance warn­ing, "parental discretion is advised," is not enough for school officials who have previewed the film. They are sending notes home to parents, consulting psychiatrists and setting aside class time Monday morning for discussions ofthe film. 
"To a person we found it power­ful, gripping, graphic and , lepress­ing," the board of thl: Nation:,! Association of Independent Schools said in a letter to school principal~, many of whom forwarded the letter to parents. 
The program will be shown at Notre Dame Sunday night at 8 on a large-screen TV in the Engineering Auditorium. 
Vl·ewn_o_t._n!____-~_~-_--""--~--~
r-Thursday, November 17, 1983-page 8 
Why does the state visit? 
It was a close one for the senators when the bomb l'Xplodcd while they were not in scs· sion. For a number of them it could havt• _~pcllcd an endgame. And it would have been 
Max Lerner The Max Lerner Column 
witnt·ssed by millions on TV -which is what the little band ofplotters wanted. 
Fortunately, the Senate had canceled its ses­sion. So it has again liRhtened its security and lxcome an armt·d camp. But can it totally? And why do we have to turn our government institutions into a zoo, to be watched by tens ofthousands ofthe l.'Urious and provide a con­fusion within which the mischievous and murderous can operate? Surely we can con­· trivc saner ways ofdoing things. 
I apply this to presidential state visits as 
well. There are always reasons for them. If 
ever a trip by a president makes sense by the 
traditional logic ofstate, it ought to he the trip 
toJapan and South Korea, both ofthem vital to 
American interests in the Asian perimeter of 
challenge and power. Yet I am troubled that 
Ronald Reagan had to take it on. 
There are some presidential trips that 
became history on a grand scale. FOR's 
wartime trysts with the coalition heads of 
state, Eisenhower's I shall go to Korea visit to 
the front, Kennedy's feb bin ein Berliner as­
sertion to the cheering citizens of the walled 
city. 
The rest? I doubt whether much of it was 
worth the tension and exhaustion and danger 
it took. 

In a world ofplots and terrorism the danger is there for all heads of state. But some are especially vulnerable. On a state visit to Burma, almost the whole ofthe South Korean cabinet was massacred, and the prime minis­ter barely escaped. President Reagan prudent­ly canceled the Manila segment ofhis trip: The 
risk would have been clear and present. 
To make such state visits in an age ofterror involves bringing along a small army of security men and imposes on the host nation the massing of an even larger army of police and milit!a Its only substantive contribution would seem to be to employment in both na­tions 
It also engages a battalion of writers of speeches and communiques, which usually show the signs of pretabrication. Few deci­sions are made which have not already been reached on both sides. 
Their real function is in the area of national psychology. It would have shored up Presi­dent Marcos' faltering regime if the U.S. presi­dent had ventured a visit. The trip to Tokyo was expected to enhance the image of Prime Minster Nakasone and President Reagan to· gether. The visit to Seoul could be a useful 
defiance thrown at the terrorists of North Korea 
But is it enough? There arc extreme situa· tions in the world because there are extreme states of miRd. From Oswald to Agca, despite the Marxist theory that leaders don't coun~ in history, the KGB has been able to find recruits whose fires of hatred are used against impor­tant leader targets in the West. Why make it easier for them to reach those targets? 
Copyright 1983, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 



Alcohol problem 
IJear Editor: 

In rt·sponst· to Tut·sday's article on the Stu­dent Sen all· disntssion of the alcohol probk-m on Glmpus, it sounds as if the Senators have finally hit on the t·nd-all solution to the drink­ing probkm here at Notre Dame: simply have our incomplete!)• committed rectors lock up all male freshman and sophomores, as well as all Black stutknts coming from non­Prott"stant backgrounds, every Friday and Saturday nights. Pkase, Mr. Callaghan, k-avc your sparse sodal-psychological knowkdge out ofthe dis­cussion and addrt·ss the problem at hand. As you do so, you will sec that it does not lend itsdfwdl to these type ofgeneralizations. The article also makes it sound as ifevery alcoholc ht·veragc consumed on the campus is done so with the intt·nt to get irretrievably inebriated. Again, I beg to differ. And if Notre Dame is made a 21 campus, will students remain on-campus due to a lack ofinitiative to move off? Possibly, but witness thdr migration en masse every weekend to partit·s and bars off-campus in order to imbibe freely. This, ofcourse, entails returning to the campus at all hours of the night, more often than not in statt·s unsuitable for driving. I say far better to drink here, in a controlled atmos­pherc, than to be forced to go elsewhere and 
P. 0. BoxQ 
face the grim prospects ofdriving while under 
the influence. 
And so, realizing that newspaper accounts 
may unwittingly alter the facts, I invite Mr. 
<:allaghan or any other member ofthe Student 
Senate to offer a rebuttal if he or she sees fit. 
M h
} guess is t at I am not alone in my confu­
sion. 
Steven F. Kranz 
On ignorance 
Dear Editor: 
As a college student striving to become in­
formed about the day's issues. I am angered 
and frustrated by the gross overgcneraliza­
tions and irresponsibility demonstrated by John C. Kairis and Joseph A. Bouley in their respective (but not respectable) letters to the editor. The ignorance of their statements cx­emplifies the ill effects of being narrow­minded and shallow in one's reasoning. 
Mr. Kait is and Mr. Bouley, unfortunately enough, would have us believe that the Soviet Union is singular in its "disregard of treaties, peaceful governments, and people's lives" in asserting its global will. 
However, it seems to me that America has supported her own share of repressive regimes (e.g. the Shah of Iran) and has often resorted to even the most questionable met­hods of intervention in order to secure its economic and political interests (e.g., its 

shady involvement in the Chilean elections of 
1972). How soon we forget! 
Grenada, incidentally, does not represent the first time the United States has intervened militarily in a Latin American country ( Guatamala, 1954; the Dominican Republic, 1965, among others). Although the Soviets occupy Afghanistan and parts of Africa and Asia, the United States continues to occupy southeast Asia (even after 30 years!) ar.d, of curse, Latin America The truth ofthe matter is that both superpowers are attempting to assert their own wills on countries that would best be without them; both play in the mud 
while calling the other "dirty." Funny how we simply fail to see that! 
!love America And if one really loves some­thing, he or she must be able to see the good and the bad in it. Only by acknowledging the bad can one strive to correct it, ultimately bringing about truth and justice. 
However, ignorance keeps us from seeing the truth of the matter at hand. Ignorance, for example, sees the world in terms ofblack and white (e.g. the Soviet Union reprdcnts "terrorism" but the United States "democracy" alone-as Mr. Kairis suggests). It is this same ignorance that results in wreck­less labelling, such as Mr. Bouley's use of the term "flower children." Would that life were so easy! 
Unfortunately, it is not, and I suggest that Mr. Kairis, Mr. Bouley and their sympathizers come to terms with this reality soon. 
However, should they choose to continue wallowing in their ignorance and over­generalizations, may I suggest the following course ofaction: 
1) Stick your head in the sand (that way you will not have to contend with the truth ofsuch m<1-tters -after all, ignorance is bliss). 
2) Let your posterior wave in the breeze (we're getting used to seeing it). 
3) Do not examine the issue too hard. 
4) Then, take a hard look at who really might be the dumb a--after all. 
GerryFvley 

On death row 
Dear Editor: 
I have been on Death Row for five years, and 
have lost contact with all my filmily and 
friends. I am a caucasian male, age 37, who 
desires correspondence with either male or 
temale college students. I'd like to form some 
kind offriendly-type relationship and, more or 
less, just exchange past experiences and ideas. 
WriteJimJeff~rs, Box B-38604, Florence, Ariz. 
85232. 
jimjeffers Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the page. They must bear the address, telephone number, and signature of the author(initials and pseudonyms are not ac­ceptable). 
Editorial Board  DepartmentManagers  
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic  
P. 0. flox Q. Notre Dame. IN 46 556  ( 219) 239· 5303  Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe  Busin!J,SS Manager  ....Christopher Owen  
The Ohserz•er is the indt·pt·ntknt newspaper puhlisht·d hy the students of the l'ni­ Executiz•e Edit(Jr .................................Paul McGinn  Controller ................  .................. Alex Szilva~  
\'ersity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colkge. II docs not necessarily rdlect  Neu•s Editor .................................Bob Vonderheide  AdwrtisinR Manager ........ ............._Jeanie Poole  
till' policies of tht· administration of eitha institution. The nt·ws is reported as ac­ Neu•s Editor ....................................Mark Worscheh  Circulation Manager....  ................ Mark Miotto  
curately ami as ohjccti\'cl)' as possible. l'nsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa  Saint Mary's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski  !.)•stems Mcmager..........  .. ...... Kevin Williams  
majority oftht· Editorial Board. Commt·ntarics. kttcrs, and the Inside Column present  Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan  Composition Manager..... .......Suzanne La Croix  
tht· views ofthdr authors. Column space is availabk to all members ofthe communi!}.  Features Editor ...............................Sarah Hamilton  
and tht· free expression of\':trying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged.  Photo Editor ..........................................Scott Bower  

Founded November 3,1966 

"~PARKER 
BROTHERS 

~~~e $9999 ~:~~te.J3QOO 
iliil 
-"'.. 
ATARI 

ScotcH® 
BR.O.ND 
VHS T-120 
•

BETA L-750 
~IDEO 

plus 560°0 in accessory rebate coupons with SALE PRICE purchase ol the Atari 2600 System! 
$8?A~ 
Atari 5200 System 

SC'!Ie$15999
Pnce Less

Rebate-$3QOO 

Sports Briefs 
The ND Football Banquetwill be held Monday, Nov. 21 at the ACC. The night begins with cocktails at 5:30 with dinner following at 7. Former Irish AU-American running back Creighton Miller will be the toastmaster for the night The featured guests and speakers will be all six of Notre Dame's Heisman Trophy winners. Ticket information is available by contacting Hugh Reynolds at either 232-3992 or 289-4303.-The Obseroer 
~etl>all t:i.cl<.etsarc still available. A limityted num­ber ofnon-renewable bleacher season tivkets are now on sale for the 19H3-84 season. They will be on sale through today at Gate 10 ofthe ACC. The ticket window is open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. -The Obseroer 
Mary DiStanislao, Notre Dame's women's basketball coach, will appear on television Saturday. She is the guest on WNDU­lV's Michiana Report at 2 p.m. (not 5:30 as previously reported). Co-captains Mary Beth Schueth and Theresa Mullins will also appear on the show. 
Sign-ups for the Insilco Squashtournament can be obtained at the ACC squash courts or by calling Sean at 277­1405. The Dec. 3-4 tournament features 'B', 'C', and 'D' divisions. It is open to studentsand faculty. Winners ofthis tournament advance to the regionals held in Chicago in january. -The Obseroer 
I 
Thursday, November 17, 1983 -page 10 
The Notre Dame Women's GoH team will be holding a meeting today at 7 p.m. in Corby Hall. This meeting is mandatory for all members. -The Obseroer 
Saint Mary's Flag Football championship be­tween Off-Campus and McCandless will be Sunday at 4 p.m. at An­gela Field. -The Obseroer 
Any interhall men's football player who didn't return his equipment at the scheduled time should return it Tuesday, November 22 between 6:00-7:30 p.m. Enter gate 9 of the stadium. -The Obseroer 
Windsurfing Notre Dame wm have its last meeting before break at 7 p.m. on Monday, November 21 in Lafortune. Bring any unsold shirts and receipts. -The Observer. 
The Notre Dame Rugby Clubwillplayitsfinal match ofthe season this Friday at 3:30 against Air Force. The match is at Stepan field and the club needs support to climax a great ( 11-4) season. -The Obseroer. 
Men's interhall basketball wm have a meeting of team captains Tuesday, November 21 at 4:30 p.m. at the ACC football auditorium. -The Obseroer 
• • • George 
continuedfrom page 12 
The umpircs ruled Brett had pine 
tar too far up on handle of his bat 
whcn he put the ball into the seats at 
Yankee Stadium. 
Brett's two-run homer put Kansas 
City ahead 5-4. But the umpires' 
decision gave the Yankees the game. 
The Royals appealed to MacPhail, who ordered the game continued from the point of Brett's homer. 
After considerable objection on Steinbrenner's part that the game should be completed after the regular season, he finally bowed to MacPhail's order. The game was completed Aug. 18 with the Royals holding their one-run lead and win­ning. 
Steinbrenner has questioned whether Kuhn could give him an ob­jective hearing in the matter. In the past, the two have engaged in numerous disputes. Kuhn leaves office Dec. 31. 

The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.. Monday throuah Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Hagpr College Cooter, is open from 11:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifiods must be prepaid, either in person or by
Classifieds mail Charge is ten ents per seven characters, per day. 
NOTICES 
PRO-TYPE, t2 yrs. expenence. SpecialiZing 1n dossartatKJns. manuscnpts. theses. and student papers. Call2n-5833 for rates. 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -PLEASE CALL PAUL McGINN AT 277-4e51 OR 23&­5313. 
SLOW DEATH 18 1n need ollunny people to join the staH. When our new bu1ldlng 1s complete. we Will all have new olfices wrth electric penc1l sharpeners and shapely secretanes and maybe even DalliS~ modern lurnllure The sky·s the l1mH for thiS new publicatiOn. so ~ you are at all Interested. call8557. 1545. or t60t Ask lor Chloe. 
I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVELAND AREA NOV. 18. IF YOU CAN HELP CALL 79t1 ASK FOR JEANETIE. 
Progr.,lng Contract programmtng, tutonng. or con­suHat•on available al 18Kiy reasonable rates. Call Tomar Bruce at2n-4851 After 
6. 
HAIRCUTS\\ GUYS $4 GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT 288 3501 
WILSON DRIVEAWAY cars to all po1nts 1n the USA. only available one way. You pick up the car in ChiCago. use ol car is only 20$ plus gas 
HANDPAINTED!I SWEATSHIRTS, T· SHIRTS. ANYTHING\\ SUPRISE SOMEONE FOR XMAS W/ A PER­SONALIZED GIFT! $5.00 EA. CALL JENN AT2t56FOR INFO 
GREG HATFEILD BIG BROTHERS COLLECTING TICKETS FOR AIR· FORCE GAME tOn 
PANDORA'S 50/ OFF SALE FEATURES ALL CUFF NOTES AND POLITICAL SCJEHCE. BUY THIS WEEK OR NEXT AND SAVE 1/2 OFF. HUNDREDS OF OTHER USED PAPER­BACKS AT 36b OFF. STOP IN AND BROWSE. WERE OPEN EVERYDAY. 937SO. BEND AVE. 
TYPING IN MY HOME-RESUMES. LET· TEAS. TEAM PAPERS. THESES, DISS­ERTATIONS, ETC. NEAT. ACCURATE WORK. REASONABLE RATES. 233­7009 MAS. COKER 
LOST/FOUND 
HELPI CAN'T SEE I LOST-PAIR OF GLASSES. "GEMINI" IN BLACK CASE (EYE CARE DOC­TORS, WICKUFFE, OHIO~ BROWN FRAMES, CLEAR PLASTIC LENSES. LOST 10/19 POSIBLY IN ENGINEER· lNG AUDITORIUM CALL JOHN 3254. 
FOUND: HAND KNIT SWEATER ON PATH NEAR MUSIC BLDG. ON TUES­DAY,11/1. CALL277-3443 
LOST HELPII LOST MY UMBRELLA. IT WAS A BLACK TOTES SLIMLINE WITH INITIALS RPM ON THE HANDLE. I LOST IT IN ROOM 127 NSH. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMATION PLEASE CALL RICH 8731. THANX 
FOUND. Franc~ tam between Fitzpatnck and Snite. Call6826, to clam. 
LOST: Whoever accidentally removed my shoe lrom Haggar Center (SMC) please contact me. No ?"s. 284·4285 

LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR 
I lost my Hewlen-Packard calculator in the Eng•n-•ng Computer Room on Wed­nesday. Nov 9. It has big JnJIJals ol OS in the nght corner. ~ lound, call David at 2n· t326. Reward offefed. No questions. 
MAKE$$$. I lost my HP-41C calculator in e1ther the EG auditorium or Lafortune Thursday the 10th. II I don't have H. I can't do my homewo rt<l lllound call DominiC 1550 
lOST· WALTHAM GOLD WATCH. Great· \y appreciated 1f returned. Please call Jen· mler Payne at 3570. 
Helpl\lost my navy Mackintosh pea coal in the Keenan pany room Sat. night. ~you know ol rts whereabouts please call Julltl at7119. 
L:osl-: Ji ~~yJX;dy pj;;i...id ~P ,.-crou 
gold pen In SMC perking Jot, pi..M contiiCI me. II hu GREAT -•tlmental value. 284-4275. O.K. Ketle? 
LOST Se•ko watch. Sliver w1th gold bands. grey lace. REWARD Call Kev1n at 3401 Thanks. 
LOST SET OF KEYS, FRIDAY. NOV.tt. SOMEWHERE BETWEEN A GRACE PARTY AND CARROLL HALL. ONE OF THE KEYS WAS MARKED WITH 425 N ON IT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 284·4230 OR MARC AT 6741. IT IS VERY IMPORTANT THAT THESE ARE RETURNED 
LOST AT KEENAN BASEMENT SATUR· DAY NIGHT Jean Jacket(SB II) wrth p1nstnpes. My ID and room keys were in the pod<et. PLEASE return to Holy Cross Hall (SMC) or call 284-4380 No ques· t1ons asked Aew ard involved. 
LOST: NOTRE DAME CREW PUL· LOVER JACKET --PLEASE return if found call John Gibbon 1747 
LOST: NAVY BLUE LIGHTWEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET TO THE BEAUTIFUL GIRL WHO CALLED AND LEFT THE MESSAGE THAT SHE HAD FOUND IT. PLEASE CALL JOHN AGAIN AT8810. 
LOST: brown umbrella on 11115 in Cus­hing 1st tk>or ladies room. If found, please call Meghan 283· 7060. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSE. CLOSE TO N.D GOOD AREA 277-3604 
GARAGE 2 BLOCKS FROM N.D. 2n­3604 
TWO PEOPLE BUNGALOW PRIVATE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 288­0955/277·3604 
WANTED 
3 RIDES NEEDED TO PITISURGH FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK. LEAVING THE 22ND OR 23RD. WILL SHARE USUAL EXPENSES,ETC. CALL VIC AT 239-747t OR 283-3-406. PLEASE LEAVE MESSAGE. 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -CAN LEAVE ANYTIME -CALL PAUL McGINN AT 23&-5313 OR 277-4851. 
NEED TIX FOR AIR FORCE. DAN at 234­6496 
HELP WANTED-BRUNO'S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER. CALL277-4519 OR 288-3320. 
PART TIME EMPLOYEE WANTED TO PUT UP POSTERS ON CAMPUS NOW AND DURING 1~ 2-10 HOURS/MONTH. $4.50/HA. SEND NAME. ADDRESS, PHONE , CLASS YR. ETC. TO MS. NISTICO. 152 TEMPLE ST., 701, NEW HAVEN, CT. 06510. 
I need a ride to and from Galesburg, Ill. or the Quad cities area lor Thanksgiving Break. Can leave Tuesday afternoon. Call Cindy x4215. 
NEED nde to N.Y. suburbs lor T-giving 
can leave TUESDAY· call Beny at 435t 
Need Aide to ATLANTA AREA lor Turkey Day. leave anytime a«er noon 11/22. Return 11/27. Call Mary ><2733. 
NEED AIDE TO BUFFALO FOR THANKSGIVING-CALL ROB t n1 
NEED RIDE FROM DALLAS TO NO AF· TEA XMAS BREAK WILL SHARE COST & DRIVING. CALL PEG 1262 
HELP 11!!1! AIDE NEEDED TO D.C. FOR THANKSGIVING. WILL SHARE USUAL OR RENT LEAVE MON OR LATER. CALL8425 AFTER 1t. 
AIDE or AlDERS needed to OKLA lor T­break call Bob 83t5 
I need a ride East on 1·80 to exit 4 or 5 in Ohio. Can leave 11118. anytime. Jim 8674/72 
HELP! Need nde to Dayton.O(New Lebanon) forT-day. Can leave Mona«. or Tues. call Julia 5085(SMC) 
Need AIDE to CLEVELAND lor Thanksgiving. Can leave Mon.Jack 1584 
AlDERS NEEDED EAST ON 1-80 AS FAA AS PA.-NJ. BORDER LEAVING AF· TEANOON OF 11/22. CALL DON 8245. 
HELP! AIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO AREA TO VISIT LONELY GRANDPARENTS FOR TURKEY DAY WILL SHARE USUAL$ CALL PAUL3239 
Need ride to Cincinnati lor Thanksgiving break. Will share regular expenses. Call Mike3310. 
Riders needed to Pittsburgh leaving Wed. 22 at 3:30. Call Tom at3540. 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO MD/DC AREA FOR BREAK CALL6874. 
volunteer drivers for cart tor Handcapped Monday and Friday 9:55-11:15 a.m. Tuesday 12:30-2:45 p.m. Call 2339· 7200. 
I NEED A RIDE TO PITISBURGH Wed­nesday the 23rd. Call Unda 284·5026. 
I NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO THIS WEEKEND. CAN LEAVE AT NOON ON FRIDAY. CALL PATIY AT 7850. 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE . A DELCO CAR STEREO CALL 283-8046 BEST OFFER 
EXOTIC PETS-snakes,llzarda,1urtles, tarantulas, amphibians, birds, mam­mals. Largest selection In U.S. Mid­west Reptile, 1520 Mishawaka Ave., 232-2095, 2 mi. from N.D. 

WOOD YOU UKE A DESK? FOR SALE Wooden desk. 4 1/2 by 2 1/2 feel. Fair cond~ion. Complete with drawers and legs. Price negohble. Contact Margaret at The Observer. 239-5303. 
TICKETS ]
L 

Need 4 GA"s lor NAVY! Please call Cindy at2856. 
AIR FORCE GAS FOR SALE.272-e306 
I NEED AIR FORCE GAS.272-6306,232­
1468 

NEEDED: 2 GA"s FOR AlA FORCE. CALL CHARLENE AT 2909. 
NEED FOUR GAs lor Air Force. Pairs OK. but prefer lour together. Call Rob at 3251. 
NEED 2 OR 3 GA"S AND/OR 1 STU. TICKET FOR AIR FORCE. CALL PAT AT 2t80 
NEED 2 OR 3 GA"S AND/OR 1 STU TICKET FOR AIR FORCE. CALL PAT AT 2180 
Need GAs and student tickets lor Air Force. Tracy x4347 
NEEDED: ONEGA OR STUDENT TICK· ET CALL KEN al6864. 
need 1 stu AF tix 1100 
WANTED. AlA FORCE GA"S FOR UNCLE'S IRISH-CRAZY FRIENDS. CALL WOZ21773 
2 AF GA"S for sale. Call Bob 8315. 
FOR SALE: 2 Air Force GA"s Best OHer 2845064 
$$$Need AIR FORCE GAs. Call 1t50$$$ 
I REALLY NEED 4 Air Foce GAs !I! Please call Dan at16151 
2 A. FORCE TIX BEST OFFFEA BY THURS. 11 pm. 277-7570 
HELPJJJ Three violent aunts and a slew of insane cousins will belt-sand my kneecaps if I don't get A.F. GA"s. 2n­0911 
HEY YOU WITH THE TWO GA"s I NEED THEM. WILL PAY. CALL JEFF AT 277­4282 
AF TIX 4 AVAILABLE 317-848·2958 HOME 317-269·3223 EXT 40 WORK 
PERSONALS 
BRUNO'S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER CALL 277 -45t9 OR 288-3320. 
YOl' know you want to. So why not? KHchen Gothic SMC Utlle Theatre 8:00p.m. Nov.t7,t8.19 
Help I Need a ride to Cinninati lor T -break. Will share expenses. Please call Kristin 7570 
BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY SENIORS! Don't Forget 3AD ANNUAL BLOCK PARTY FRI. NOV. 18 3:30-6:30 IN ACC Food, Beverages. Music COME & HAVE SOME FUN! BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR 
Lost In engineering computer room. Call David at 277-1326. No questions asked. RewfJid offered. 
·····:·······························..·········..·············· 
DIATBAG'D' 
Best In '113 
MISS MANNERS assumes her reader· ship is just being FASHIONABLY LATE, but she is still waiting lor more feedback. Keep those cards and letters pouring in. Address your comments concerning the Miss Manners column to: The Showcase Editor. The Observer, PO Box Q, Noire Dame. R.S. V.Psoon please. 
Over the river and through the woods, to Gn~ndmother'o house we go, in Youngstown. Ohio. We need a sleigh (at least two rides) to get there, though. We'll supply hay and oats ($$) generously. leaving Wednesday at noon. PleHse call Mary or Sarah at 1311. 
First, there was the ·Brennen Reces­s•on......now it's the FAUST DEPAES· SIONI OUST FAUST OUST FAUST OUST FAUST!!! 
BED AND BREAKFAST Available Air Force Weekend lor ND/SMC parents. Two (2) night minimum. Ten minutes from Campus. Call 272·5640. 
Do you want to eat your Thanksg1v1ng turkey in Younstown. Oh10 or there­abouts? And have you no way to get there? II so. and il you would like a ride. call1311. 
ASHJASHIFISHIASHt 
Hey everybody. HEIFER'S t811 What?! HEIFERS NEVER agel Oh yeah? HAl!!II!!! Happy Binhday• snon snort. 
I'm desperllle' I need a ride home lor turkey dinner! Please give me a ride to St. louis. Can leave Tues. or Wed. Will pay usual. Call Maureen at 13t1. Please calli II 
B.P. IS BACKI 
"'THE DAY AFTER"', ABC'S 7 MILUON DOLLAR MOVIE ABOUT NUCLEAR WAR AND KANSAS CITY, THIS SUN­DAY AT 8 IN THE ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM. BE THERE. 
Dr. Helen C.tdlcott'a controYerlllal and Academy Awtord winning ftlm, "IF YOU LOVE THIS PLANET", LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE, TONIGHT, 6:30. 
FALL FEST DANCE PICTURES ARE HERE!!! Wed and Thurs in LaFortune. You can order them between 2:00 and 4:30. 
TO THE JUDGES OF 7TH FLOOR GRACE When does court reconvene? THIRD FLOOR-GUllTY UNTIL PROVEN INNOCENT·HOL Y CROSS 
Women'a Fair 12-3p.m. HCC Parlor 
Check HoutIRelreahmentsll 
S~nl<l(d Hall-
The' support of the Amencan people is behind you. Nancy and I wish you the best of luck 1n Sunday·s game. 
-Ronald Reagan NOTRE DAME COLORING BOOKS. l01 the hnle k1d in all of us. Get yours today. 
To the HOGS SOCCER TEAM: We dorl"t want to wallow in embarrassment. so tum Morr1ssey Manor into a Pig Pen. · Two loyal Fans 
DIRKSEN & QUIGS: YOU'D HAVE TO BE C-C·C·CAAZY TO LOSE. ARE WE GOING TO HAVE TO ADD MADMEN CANT SCORE"' TO THE LIST? · THE TORRID TWOSOME 
THE HENS ARE COMING. THERE WILL BE A LOT OF CLUCKING BUT NO COCKLE-DOODLE-DOOING. 
JOANIE (ALIAS JOHN F KENNEDY). YOUR INITIALS ARE THE SAME BUT LOOK OUT FOR THAT MIDDLE NAME! 
JOANIE-DEVOUA AN ELECTRIC PICKLE!? 
COMING SOON! JOANIFS LOVE DAY PARTY! 
B.J. MeG. 
Thanks lor Saturday mte -Sorry I was k1nd of out of rt though. That's not normal· ly me! let's do it aga~n• The Kam1kaze Queen 
Alnght SMC"s it's t1me for the declaration of t~e SO reigning queen. It does appaar thai MLM is nudging her way into the 
forever deemed a dynamo"' category Wllh MVO. TB and CAH. KC appears to be want1ng to lollow her room1es footsteps wilh a 51. Joe man of her own As always TN. TEB and PE are always slupp1ng rock to rock. MH and MB baUer get wort<rng 
Dear Reb, You·re stilllorgening but you·re still forgiven. Love. Patli not Pam. P S Thanks for warming m1ne too. 
I NEED A AIDE TO EASTERN PENN FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK THAT IS LEAVING ON TUESDAY. WILL SHARE USUAL EXPENSES. CALL JULIE AT 272·t723. 
Dear J•m. Are you hav1ng a mce day? Gotcha! Clare 
I AM A VERY ATIAACTIVE GIRL WHO NEEDS A AIDE TO EASTERN PENN FOR BREAK. CALL JULIE AT 272·1723. 
To Fisher Big 10 Inch Basement"' We Nasty G1rtsin lyons need ?inches more!! 
KERIN MANNION! KERIN MANNION! HE SLEEPS WITH TOM MORRISEY! TOM MORRISEY! 
In RadiO Wars. Can F1sher get up \he courage? Naahl We know they can't get it up 
Bowl Games? ... HA!... Foginabounem! 
Wh1p out your \OY buzzers• It's MagJC & Comedy Night at the Nazz this Friday at8 ... see M1ke Weber. Gary O'Bnen. Dan Hamgan, Oan Osbourne, Jim Leous. Dan Mischke. and Mart< W81mbolt.. and a cast of thousands! 
Once long ago A word from your Hps And rhe world fumed around. But somehow you've changed; You're so far away. I long for the pasr And dream ol the days with you, Madame Blue 
-Styx 


.........~~--···~· • .~r. .......... ~•.-....,..~·~ ......._....~ .. ---·~·~ .... ··-···,....... =--· ............'"....................... -~--. _,.,_ ____.........____ -----,.-----r-----------••• 
Thursday, November 1 7~ 1983 -page 11
The Observer 

just when you thought it was safe to sit near the scorer's table, the fiery tongue ofIrish Head Coach "Digger'' Phelps returns! His mighty wrath was raised more than once during Notre Dame's vic­tory over the Yugoslavian national team last night. See Will Hare's story on page 16. 
Phil and Steve 

Mahre brothers lead U.S. ski team 
ByJOHN MOSSMAN be allowed to participate in the !commercial contracts. AssociatedPress 1984 Olympics because he insists "A lot of people feel it's going to on retaining his B-license, an ar­be a hollow victory ifStenmark isn't 
COPPER MOUNTAIN, Colo. (AP) rangement that has allowed him to there," Phil said. "But I can tell you it -The upcoming World Cup season keep estimated S4 million to S5 mil­won't be hollow for the guy who figures to be the last hurrah for twin lion from endorsements and other wins." brothers Phil and Steve Mahre, two of the best ski racers ever and the backbone of the U.S. Men's Alpine 
Australia II causes 
team. "Skiing is still fun, but the travel­ing is more difficult," Steve Mahre 
yacht design changes 
said this week during training for World Cup competition, which begins Dec. 1 in Yugosl:lvia. "I have a Associated Press Controversy over Australia II's family now, and that makes it harder. radical-winged keel surrounded the I'm looking at this year as being my America's Cup this summer. last." LONDON (AP)-An Internation­The New York Yacht Club unsuc­
"It's getting old," echoed Phil. al Yacht Racing Union committee cessfully sought to have the "This is probably my last year." upheld the legality of winged keels Australian entry disqualified be­
Phil, 26, of Yakima, Wash., on yesterday, a move that likely cause of the shape of its keel. In the sounded the same warning a year means 12-meter yachts will be end, the NYYC lost its 132-year ago but decided to give it another redesigned to look like America's monopoly on the Cup when season, partly because this is an Cup winner Australia II. Australia II beat Liberty 4-3 in the Olympic season. But both twins in­The decision must still be ratified best-of-seven final. sist that the Olympics be kept in the by the IYRU's permanent committee 
T~ny Watts, chiefmeasurer oftheproper perspective. tommorrow. But delegates attend­IYRU, said members of the commit­"The Olympics is just another ing yesterday's meeting said this tee spent about 10 minutes on therace, really," said Phil, the three­probably would be a mere formality. 
winged keel issue and endorsed thetime World Cup overall champion. 
previous "unanimously and without''You make a mistake if you put too "This decision will change the controversy."
much emphasis on it." shape of 12-meter yachts dramati­
Adds U.S. Alpine Director Bill cally," said Gary Mull, one of two "I don't expect any problems tom­Marolt, "The Olympics is just part of Americans on the 14-member keel morrow," he said. "The permanen~ the season. It's a one-shot deal and so boat committee. committee will most likely discuss much luck is involved. But that "The advantages that wings give a the question briefly, uphold the keel doesn't mean we won't be gunning boat are enormous. All the old boat committee's decision and then for victory." drawings will now be scrapped and move on to the next item." 
Phil is the favorite to capture new yachts designed in time for the Also yesterday, approval was 
Olympic gold medals in both the next America's Cup" in 1987, he given to an application by the newly 
slalom and giant slalom events at said. formed 12-Meter Yacht Class 
Sarajevo, Yugoslavia, in February be­The committee unanimously up­Owners Association to allow a maxi­
cause of his past record and the ex­held a November 19821YRU ruling, mum keel width of3.6 meters. 
pected absence ofhis chiefnemesis, which said: "winglets are permitted "Ironically, these could sprout 
Swede~'s Ingemar Stenmark. on the keel, but they shall be fixed much wider wings than those on the 
The International Ski Federation and not capable ofbeing adjusted in keel of Australia II which measured has ruled that Stenmark should not trim or retracted." about 2.5 meters," Watts said. 

BACK 
AGAIN 

STROHS 
1f2 BBL 
27.59 

BUDWEISER  29.99  
OLD STYLE  26.89  
OLD  
MILWAUKEE  22.99  
LITE V4BBL  19.99  

QUARTS BUDWEISER 9.99 OLD 
MILWAUKEE 6.99 
LIQUOR 
JIM BEAM 
BOURBON 
1.75 Liter 
CANADIAN CLUB 
750ml 
JACK DANIEL'S 
750ml 

9.99 6.99 7.99 
KING'S CELLAR 
VODKA 
1.75 Liter 

BAILEY'S IRISH 
~EEAM 
KALUHA 
750ml 
BACARDI RUM 
1.75 Liter 

7.49 
10.49 8.79 10.89 
PRICES GOOD THRU NOV. 19, 1983 
South Bend Ave Store Only 
WE BEAT ALL ADVERTISED PRICES BRING THEIR AD 
WINE 

GALLO 
PREMIUMS 
$399 

LIMIT 1 SECOND PURCHASE 4 
'LANCERS 750ml 
2.99 
CASE BEER 
BUDWEISER STROHS
7.49

241oose Reg.& Light 241oose 
24 LOOSE
MICHELOB

LITE 7.19 OLD MILWAUKEE
6.99 

·---------------~­
"f 

Thursday, November 17,1983-page-12
The Observer 

Indiana, Michigan State 
Wide open Big Ten basketball race 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Any assessment of 
college basketball in the Midwest 
usually begins with the Big Ten Con­
ference, and any assessment of the 
Big Ten has to begin with Indiana 
and the lloosiers' flamboyant coach, 
Bobby Knight. 
The Hoosiers won the Big Ten 
title for the third time in four years 
last season, when they weren't 
supposed to win. They're not 
supposed to win again. This time the 
prt·diction might stand. But don't 
bet on it. 
Indiana doesn't figure to be 
dominant, but then neither docs 
anyone else in what could become a 
wide-open race. For beginners, 
Michigan State and Iowa are the 
teams to watch. 
Purdue, Ohio State, anu Illinois 
finished in a second-place tic last 
season. but Purdue's Russell Cross 
and Illinois' Derek Harper left to go 
to the National Basketball Associa­
tion. Minnesota lost 7-3 Randy 
Breuer through graduation. 
Coach Jud Heathcote has his best Michigan State team since 1979, when the Spartans, led by Magic 
Johnson, won the NCAA title. Kevin Willis, a 7-0 senior center, and guard Sam Vincent will lead the Spartans, whose main strength will be depth. 
Iowa Coach George Raveling in­
herited some outstanding talent 
from departed Coach Lute Olson. 
Leading the liawkeyes will be 6-10 
Greg Stokes and 6-9 Michael Payne. 
Steve Carfino and Andre Banks are 
standouts in the backcourt. 
Indiana lost Ted Kitchel and Randy Wittman, two ofthe Big Ten's top four scorers. Knight will build around 7-2 l!we Blab, Winston Mor­gan and Stew Robinson. Knight also has a pair ofoutstanding freshmen in Steve Alford and Marty Simmons. 
Despite the loss of Breuer, the Big Ten's leading scorer, Minnesota could better its 9-9 conference record of last season. Coach Jim Dutcher ha..~ four starters returning 
Students-Campus Reps 
Part-Time-Evenings-Weekends 
SALES JOBS 
Earn extra dollars calling on people who have requested information on our products. We see mainly by appointment in a dignified and professional manner. Complete training offered. 
For details, call Dr. Thompson at 287-2926 
ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA 
from a team that made it to the Na­tional Invitation Tournament. They include Tommy Davis, Marc Wilson, .Jim Petersen, and Roland Brooks. 
Ohio Stare and Illinois could be 
fac~Jrs in the race. Coach Eldon Mil­
ler at Ohio State lost Granville 
Waiters, bur Tony Campbell heads a 
returning cast that also includes 
Troy Taylor and Ronnie Stokes. 
Coach Lou Henson has made a 
habit ofproducing winning teams at 
Illinois but might have trouble in the 
middle. lip front will be Efrem Win· 
ters and Anthony Welch, who were both oustanding last season. Bruce Douglas will handle the backcourt. 
Michigan has high-scoring Eric Turner returning, but much depends on 6-11 Tim McCormick, who has had knee surgery. Coach Bill Frieder managed to recruit prep sensation A.11toine Joubert, con­sidered a can't-miss future star. 
Northwestern made it to the NIT last season but lost)im Stack, Gaddis Rathel and Mike Jenkins, so it could be a tough season for the Wildcats. The same holds true for Purdue and Wisconsin. 

DePaul, Marquette, and Notre Dame are the independent powers. DePaul figures to produce the best record of the three, but distractions coulu be a problem. This is the final season for long-time Coach Ray Meyer, who will turn over the reins to Joey Meyer, his son and top assis­tant. 
Wherever DePaul plays, it will be billed as "The Coach's I.ast Trip," and that could be distracting. DePaul -has four starters returning from the team that finished second in the NIT plus outstanding fresh­men Dalla.~ Comegys and Lawrence West, both ofwhom are expected to see a lot ofplaying time. 
Marquette has a new coach in Rick Majerus and three returning starters -Dwayne Johnson, Marc Marotta and, Mandy Johnson. 
Coach Digger Phelps lo-;t star guard John Paxson at Notre Dame, but the Irish arc loaded with young talent and might progress rapidly during the campaign. 
Steinbrenner drops Kuhn injuction suit 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK (AP) -George Steinbrenner, owner of the New York Yankees, agreed yesterday to drop his request for an injunction barring baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn from investigating his behavior in last summer's "pine tar bat" incident. 
State Supreme Court justice Irwin Silbowitz said Steinbrenner did not waive his right to contest any fin­dings by Kuhn that the Yankee boss might deem biased or prejudiced. Instead, Steinbrenner simply dropped his request for an injunc­tion against Kuhn's investigation at this time. 

Sources close to Steinbrenner have saiu he has expressed concern that he could be fined as much as S250,000 and suspended for his ac­tions in connection with the con­troversy. 
Steinbrenner was openly critical of American League President Lee MacPhail, after MacPhail overruled umpires who disallowed a two-out, ninth inning home run by Kansas City Royals star George Brett onjuly 24 and caJJed him out, ending the game. 
ste GEORGE page 10 
Dominic's Hair WOMEN&MEN Styling 
Cutting Coloring Perms Blow Drying Tuesday -Friday 9 am-5pm Saturday 8am-2pm Closed Sun. & Mon. Evenings by Appointment 
272·8560 

51333 US 31N 3 mi. No. of Campus 
The Stats 
Yesterday's Results Notre Dame 75, Yugoslavia 73 
Yugoslavia (73) 
M FG-A FT-A  R  
Knego. Andro  19  2-5  0-0  4  
Nakic. Mihovi  27  4-7  2-2  6  
Zizic, Ra1ko  33  4-7  1-4  3  
Petrovic,  
Drazo  36 10-15  4-5  2  
Mutapcic.  
Emir  25  1-5  0-0  2  
Zorkiic.  
NebOIS  14  4-6  2-3  2  
Petrovic,  
Roban  7  0-0  2-2  0  
Vu1acc.  
Jadran  9  1-3  2-2  2  
Vacirovic,  
Zark  10  0-0  0-0  0  
Sunara. Ivan  18  4-8  0-1  0  

F 3 3 3 
0 
0 
0 2 0 
2 
200 30-56 13-19 23 14 Notre Dame (7'5) 
p M FG-A FT-A R F p 4 Sluby, Tom 26 6-14 0-0 6 2 12 1 0 ~ Kempton. Tim 25 1-5 34 2 3 5 
9 : Barlow. Ken 20 1-3 2-2 3 4 4 Duff. Dan 14 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 24 Price. Joseph 16 7-16 0-0 3 3 14 Hicks. Scott 24 6-17 4-5 5 1 20 2 Buchanan. 
: Joe 26 1-3 0-0 3 3 2 10 IRoyal. Donald 
10 1-5 0-0 2 0 2 
Bowen. John 2 1·1 0-0 0 0 2 

2 Dolan. Jim 26 4-5 2-5 9 3 10 
, Rucker. Cecil 7 1-3 2-2 4 

4 200 31-72 13-18 34 20 75 
FG Pet. .431 FT Pet. -.722. Team 

0 , rebounds-41. Turnovers-16. Assists-21. 
8 Buchanan and Dolan 4. Technicals-None. 73 Halftime -Notre Dame 44. Yugoslavia 39 
FG Pet. .536. FT Pet.,· .684. Team Officials · Dave Parry. Roger Parramore. A. rebounds -29. Turnovers -25. Assists -15, 10,484. Nakic and Petrovic. 5. Technicals-Nakic. 
• • • Kiel 
difficult time." 

Although sophomore Ken Kar­
cher was given every opportunity to 
beat out Kiel in the quarterback 
derby that spring, Kid maintained 
enough competitive fire to win the 
duel hands down. 

That competitive fire led Notre 
Dan1e to four straight victories at the 
start of the 1982 season. Apoor per­
formance against Arizona in the fifth 
game, however, led one Of:~server 
columnist to bring back old ghosts. 
The quarterback situation can no longert beignored. The plain truth is that Blair Kiel is not a major col­lege quarterback. 
It's a reflection of Kicl's frustra­tion at Notre Dame that he. had to suffer an injury before fans ack­nowledged his true importance to the team. But his return the next year would eternalize new hopes. 
Sports Illustrated ran a photo in its pre-season football issue this year that turned out to be an unfortunate­ly very accurate metaphor. Kid's photo was taken with the frish 
continued/rampage 16 
leprechaun resting on his shoulders. Indeed, Notre Dame success hopes rested directly on Kid in the eyes of football followers. 
Everything seemed to be fall in place for his senior year, though -a tremendous spring performance, a marriage over the summer, operat­ing the same system for the first time in his four-year career, offensive cap­tain, talented teammates, an accep­tance and appreciation by previously skeptical fans, and peace ofmind. 
All destroyed in a period ofseven days in September. He became the scapegoat. "It hurt a lot then," says Kiel, "And it still does." 
Still he feels fortunate that he chose Notre Dame as his universiry. 
"I am going to have very fond memories of the friends I've made here, the education I've received, and of the students here," says Kiel. "They really have been good to me despite the circumstances." 
He pauses for a second. 
"As for the Air Force game," he says, "I can't wait till it's over." 

ooo~ooooo~~~xxxx~~~oo 
SENIORS! 3rd ANNUAL BLOCK PARTY 
this Friday November 18 3:30 · 6:30 in the North Dome of ACC 
FOOD, BEVERAGES, MUSIC AND FUN FOR ALL! MAKE PLANS NOW TO ATTEND! 

Dance Concert 
"We're On A Roll" 


Saturday, Nov. 19, 8:30pm Sunday, Nov. 20, 1:OOpm 
Chautauqua Ballroom 
Donations Gratefully Accepted 

Michiana's Unlimited Sight, Sound, & Taste Experience. 
-featuring.,.... 
Half Million Dollar Theatre Pipe Organs; Old Fashioned Ice Cream Parlour Twenty Four Varieties of Import Beers; And a Wide Selection of Food Attractions; 
Go East on Edison to Main St., Then North to Day Rd. · 
259-0050 
Thursday,Nov~ber 17,1983-page 13 
Belles are powerful 
Soccer flourishes at Saint Mary's 

ByKATHY MURPHY 
Sports Writer 

The Soccer Club at Saint Mary's has come a long way in the past two years. Last year, Professor John Akers cam·e to Saint Mary's to teach Spanish. But he also was given the opportunity to coach a virtually un­heard ofsoccer club. Since then, the soccer program has become increas­ingly more competitive. 
"I played soccer in college and I .have coached in the past," said Akers. "I like to coach and got a chance to know the students outside ofthe classroom." 
Last year the club consisted ofjust one team. This year interest in the program has increased so the club has been divided into two teams; SMC I ("A" team) and SMC II ("B" team). 
Both teams competed in the Mic­hiana Soccer Association. SMC I 
. finished in a tie with Goshen College for first place in the A division with a 6-2-1 record. In the tournament playoffs last weekend the Belles faced Goshen in the championship game but lost 3-2 in an exciting double overtime match. 
Sophomore Sue Schier! was the leading scorer for SMC I with seven goals this season, while junior Cindy The Oboelver/Paul Cifurelli 
Varanka and freshman Marianne Per-
Freshman Scott Hicks scored a team-high 20 points and led the ri each scored four goals. Irish to a 75-73 victory over the Yugoslavian national team last In addition to the Michiana night. See Will Hare's story on page 16. league, SMC I also faced other col­
legiate opponents such as Wheaton College and Marquette University, as well as defeating Notre Dame 3-2 earlier in the season. 
"We had an excellent season," said Akens. "We have shown that we can compete with other colleges and universitks." 
SMC II also had a successful seaSon in the Michiana league. They placed first in the B division with a 9-0-2 record and also won the league championship in the playoffs last weekend by blanking Crowe­' Chisek, 2-0. This division included a faculty and staff team from Saint Mary's and one from Notre Dame. SMC II defeated both of these teams en route to their league champion­ship. The leading scorer for this squad was freshman Gloria Eleuteri who scored 16 goals. 
Akers was very pleased with the club's performance this year. 
"We had a very balanced team and this was our strength. We had a strong offense as well as a strong defense," said Akers. "There was a lot of competition on the team and nobody had a secure position in the starting line-up." 
Akers feels that the balanced team play, the addition of experienced freshmen, better playing conditions (the addition of goal posts on the field) and harder practices have 
helped  to  improve  the  program.  
Akers  has  also  added  assistant  
coaches  Tom  Gibbons  and  Bill  

Varanka to help with the club. Next year also looks promisng for the club. 
"We will be stronger next year," said Akers. "We will have returning players from abroad as well as those returning players from this year including six freshmen who are on the first team." 
Before concentrating on next year the soccer club still has two competitions remammg. In February, the Belles will be hosting an indoor soccer tournament featur­ing some of the Midwest's finest teams. Also, in March the club will travel to Wheaton College to com­pete. 
The Soccer Club at Saint Mary's has definitely improved over the past two years, and the future ahead looks very bright. 
• • • Rank 
continued/rampage 14 
Louisville, which made the Final Four last season for the third time in four years, received the other first­place vote and 836 points to rank sixth despite losing the McCray brothers. 
Iowa was seventh. Maryland and UCLA and Oregon State complete the Top Ten. 
Louisiana State topped the Second Ten, followed by Michigan State, Fresno State, Arkansas, Boston Col­lege, Georgia, Kansas, DePaul, In­diana and Oklahoma. 
Nine of last season's final Top Twenty are missing from the preseason rankings. 
Among them are NCAA champion 
N.C. State, which lost Dereck Whit­tenburg, Thurl Bailey and Sidney Lowe, the catalysts of that cham­pionship squad. Also missing is Vir­ginia, which graduated 7-4 Ralph Sampson, three-time Player of the Year. 
Also unranked from last season's Top Twenty are St. John's, Nevada­Las Vegas, Missouri, Villanova, Wic­
, hita State. Tennessee-Chattanooga and Oklahoma State. 
ATTENTION 
ND SMC Council For The Retarded of Logan Center 
will be collecting Air Force Football Tickets for its special clients. Generous students can donate their tickets between 
4:30 -6:30 on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday at the dining halls (including St. Mary's). 
Also, anyone interested in helping the Council accompany these special persons to the game should come to Logan Center at 11 :OOam this Saturday. 
Thank you for your cooperation 

~-(;~~ ~ ~otin~~!,~~unt 
· sale ttems 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 

University Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
Notre Dame Student Players in association with Music Theatre International 
present 
Fiddler 

On The Roof 
.•· 
Dec 1, 2, 3 8:00pm O'Laughlin (SMC) Tickets on Sale at S.U. Record Store $3.50 All Seats Reserved 
Student Savings Card Bl111'1V? 
CaD the eye care professionals and receive 20 percent oft your glasses 
complete eye exa(1/;:T"m 
contact lenses 
glasses your prescriptions filled 
Dr. P. Albert Vision Associates 
1635 N.lronwood 
1 block north ofMcDonald's 
277-1161 
Dr. R. Snyder Professional 

~----------------·­COUNSELINE A service to the ND community 239-7793 HOURS: 4-topm Mon·Thurs. Counsel me is a free, confidenttal telephone service that offers professionally taped matenals that cover a wide vari.e!.v of ~tudent concerns  
TAPE NO TITLE 1 FrtendShlp Butld.ng 7 Dealmg wtlh Construct•ve Crti1Ctsm 8 Dealmg Wlll"l Anger 9 Understandmg Jealousy and How to Deal wtlh 11 10 How to Say "NO" 16 Becommg Open to Q.l.her<; 18 Oattng Skills. 30 Anxtely and Posstble Ways to Cope Wt!hll 32 How To Deal wtlh Lonhness 33 How to Har:"~dle Fears 35 Butld•ng self-Esteem & Conltdence 37 Aelaxmg"Exerctses 38 Copmg wtlh Stress 39 Female Sex Role-­Changes and Stress 44 Learntng to Accept Yourself 61 Whal is Therapy & How to Use II 83 How to Cope wttt"; a Broken Retaltonshtp 85 Understandmg Gnef 90 Helpmg a Fnend 160 Early stgns alan Alcohol Problem 161 Responstble Dec•Stons About Dnnktng 402 Sclf-Asserllveness 431 Whatts Depress ton 432 How to Deal wtth Oepresstor'l 433 Depress ton as a Ltfe Style 478 Becommg lndependen1 frQ.m Paren.t.s 479 Dealing wtlh Alcoholtc Parents 491 SUicidal Crists 492 Recogntltng Sutctdal Potential mOthers 493 Helpmg So~~-9.~~!~.~ Sutctdal Cnsts  
Counseline is a completely anonymous set"'ice oflere<l by the Counseling & Psychological Sel"'ices Center. UNO For Furtherfflfo or Assistance Call C&PSC"239-7337 between 9-5 ~ --CLIP AND SAVE-­ 


The Observer Thursday, November 1 7, 1983 -page 14 
APTop20 

AP Top Twenty
North Carolina ranked No.1 

Tom Foreman,Jr. 
Associated Press 
CHAPEl. HILL, N.C. (AP) -For 
the third time in six years, North 
Carolina has been chosen No. I in 
The Associated Press preseason col­
lc:ge basketball poll and, for the third 
time, Coach Dean Smith isn't betting 
it will last. 
The Tar Heels, national cham­pions in 1982, received 34 first­place votes and I, I 75 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and broadcasters. Smith, however, said yesterday that one team cannot be expected to reign supreme all season. 
"Take the first four in the polls and I think any one will be fortunate to say they'll bt· in Seattle," he said, rcfaring to the site of this season's NCAA basketball touflhament. "Last year, I think Louisville was the hig­hest ranked team to go to the Final Four." 
Kentucky, whose hopes are strengtht·ned by the return of7-foot­l Sam Bowie, drew 16 first-place votes and I, 12 3 points to rank second, ahead of Houston, which lost to North Carolina Statt' in last season's championship. The Cougars got four first-place votes 
and 1,042 points. 
A top-ranking in preseason is no­
thing new for the Tar Heels. They 
were picked No. I prior to the 1977­
78 season and reached the second 
round of the NCAA tournament 
before losing to the University ofSan 
Francisco. They were top choice 
again before the 1981-82 season and 
backed it up with a 63-62 victory 
over Georgetown in the finals at 
New Orleans for Smith's first title af­
ter six previous trips to the Final 
Four. 
"I don't think it makes much dif­ference whether you're one or 10 because of the great balance in col­lege basketball," Smith said. "For North Carolina State and Georgia to be in the Final Four last year demonstrates this since they were the fourth seed in their con­ferences." 
North Carolina, 28-8 last season and losers to Georgia in the finals of the East Regional, returns 6-foot-7 junior All-Amrican Michael jordan and 6-9 senior Sam Perkins. Other starters returng are 6-7 senior Matt Doherty and 7-foot sophomore cen­ter Brad Daugherty. 
Three freshmen are expected to provide immediate help, although none is likely to start. Forwards Dave 


Make the connection 
~:V:Vo~'lJ@'lJ 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
Popson andjoe Wolf, both 6-10, will help along the front line, while 6-4 Kenny Smith will fight two incum­bents -Buzz Peterson and Steve Hale -for playing time. 
1. North Carolina (34) 
2. Kentucky (16) 

"Hale is a very fast learner. It's 
3. Houston(S)

helpful because the point guard is 
4. Georgetown (4) 
5. Memphis St. (1)

required to do a lot," Smith said. 
6. loUisville ( 1)

Georgetown attracted four first­
7. 
Iowa 

8. 
Maryland



place votes and l ,024 points for the 
9. UCLA

No. 4 spot. The Big East Conference 
10. Oregon St. 

favorite has 7-foot Pat Ewing, a first team All-American, and a strong 
Other teams receiving votes and their point totals. Virginia Commonwealth, 128; Wake Forest. 1 09; St.
supporting cast. Memphis State, 
which includes 6-10 Keith Lee 
John's, 106, Wichita St., 105; Auburn, 69; Villanova, 
67; Ohio St.. 63; Virginia Tech, 53: Fullerton St., 50; 
Nebraska, 46: Notre D-e. 39; Texas-EI Paso. 38; 
among its four returning starters, 
drew one vote for No. 1 and 905 
Tennessee-Chattanooga, 34; North Carolina St., 27: 
points to gain fifth place. Syracuse, 25: lamar, 21: Nevada-las Vegas, 21: 
see RANK page 13 
AP Top Twenty 
The Top Twenty college basketball teams in The Associated Press poll. with first-place votes in paren· theses, th1s season's records and total points. Po1nts 
based on 20-19·18-17 etc. 
28-8 1.175 23-8 1,123 31-3 1,042 22·10 1,021 23-8 905 32-4 836 21-10 n1 2()-10 632 23-6 537 2()-11 491 
11. Lou151ana St  19-13  490  
12. M1ch1gan St.  17-13  425  
13. Fresno St.  25-10  417  
14. Arkansas  2€i·4  375  
15. Boston College  25-7  356  
16. Georg1a  24-10  317  
17. Kansas  13-t6  235  
18. DePaul  21-12  172  
19. lnd1ana  24-6  150  
20. Oklahoma  22-11  142  

Tulsa. 21: Illinois, 18: Alabama, 13; Missoun, 13: M,1ch1gan. 12: Minnesota, 11: Wash1ngton St.. 10, Al­corn St., 9: Tennessee. 9, Brigham Young. 8; Virgima. 
7: Xav1er. Ohio, 7: West Virginia, 6; Loyola, Ill . 4: Southern Methodist. 4: Utah St.. 3: Flonda. 2: lona. 2: South Carolina, 2; St. Joseph's, Pa.. 2: Temple, 2: Washington, 2: Marquette, 1: Ohio U., 1, Oregon. 1; Pittsburgh, 1: SW. louisiana, 1: Stetson. 1. 


VALI!f.S To 4:1.8.00 ~EDC0t.a.s·IW4f. BRNIIl> 
NCIW-Y 
~8.. 
AlHI..E'fiC fOOfWfAR 
MRI,OCO PR.IN 6TQ;.I(.~ 
Tennis, Racquetball, Basketball, Jogging, Softball, Soccer, etc. 
~,79') ~ 
Name brand manufacturers 
.... 

........'

.... ,, .' .·..... ·..... -........ .. ·, 
--------~ 
~4(Jt.cllC3L~-----------------------------------Th--und P_~-e---15
__a_y_,_N_o_ve_m_ber_.I_7_,_19_8_3_­
Bloom County 

Fate 
AtJomcK F£ATuf£ oF rH£ UNtV£RSirY l/8~1{((1 IS Tift: 
FACULTY OfffCt Af£A. 
\ 


Mellish 
lliTOffiON, INTRUV'~I\ : 1HIS IS1H~ C£NiRAL. I.R.S. CO~R OFF~. YOU ARE 
OO'-JDVCTlN6 AN IU£611L INTRU­
SION IN10 I.R.5. FIU:5. 
lliWTTFY YOORSf-Lf. 

&451CALL~ WHAT TilEY HAD 
IN 1'1/NO WAS A CJtr.IIC0/18 
MOTIF; YOU KfJOW, AN CA,I?LY CHUI(CH THEt£. 

R€f'!:AT: 
IJ7t.rffifY 
IMM£1711\1a.Y. 
ANO WITH TH£ NEW 
FIKULTY OfFICE~ B£1Nif BUtLr; THIS AWl'S 88N(J 
'TUlNED ova.. w me NAVY'S R o. r. C. PK()(jl(!lM. 


Berke Breathed 

Photius 
ff'LL Tlf St1?T OF A NtAC.LEAf ~UBHAI?tW£ UIIOfl:SEA A{)t'ENTUKC MOTIF 

Dave &Dave 

ACROSS 1 Notclosed 5 Vast 
expanse 10 Depot: abbr. 13 Tax 14 Paved area 15 On the sum· 
mit of 16 Last but 
two 19 Low 20 Bullring 21 Jolly­22 Meansof 
detection 24 Nota soul 26 Guardian 
spirit 28 Kenton or Freberg 
29 Standard 32-barrel 33 Colnsof 
Thailand 34 Medicinal herb 35 Comedienne Martha 36 Entire 
ankle 37 Bus. abbr. 38 Sch. subj. 39 Roman 
harvest 
goddess 40 Apostolic 41 Direction 
letters 42 Vases 43 Without 
admixture 

5SI Western (George city Eliot) SCI Kinsman: 28 Auctions 
abbr. 30 Of hearing 61 Kefauver 31 Comeback 62 Org.'s 33 !'iangers·on 
cousin 36 Call 37 Supervision 
DOWN 39 Imprecation 1 "-Bede" 40 Washington 2 Roman sound 
goddess 43 Turkish 3 Law officer governors 4 Liquor 45 Quercitrons 5 Certain 46 Golf score 
compositions 47 Remotely 6 Rattan 48 Part worker 50 Handle 7 Vingt·-52 River into (card game) the Danube 
8 Tree of 53 Dramatic heaven conflict 9 Negation 55 JFK's pre· 
word decessor 10 Theater 56 New Deal Items org. 
Campus 
• 
I 2 -3 p.m. -SMC WOW Fair, Haggar College Center Parlor 

•i2:15 
p.m. -Faculty Forum, "The Impact of Legislators' Play on Fiscal Conservatism," Prof. Richard B. McKenzie, I21 Hayes-Healy 

• 
I -6 p.m. -Health Immunizations, Against Measles, Mumps, Rubella, and Tetanus, Student Health Center, Free 

•2:I 
5 p.m. -Lecture, "Fiber Optic Communica­tion," Dr. David A. Duke, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•2:45 
p.m. -Lecture, "Application of Fiber Op­tics to Local Area Networks," Dr.). Richard Jones, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Moving Up: The Irish in American Political life," Prof. James P. Walsh, library Lounge 

•4:15 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Great National In­dustrial Policy Hoax," Prof. Richard B. McKenzie, 

•5:
I 5 p.m. -Mass for Life, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by ND/SMC Right to Life 

•6 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Executive Woman ofthe SO's: Is She Fact or Fiction?" Ms. Susan Holland, 303 Haggar Center, Sponsored by SMC WOW Week 

•6:30 
p.m. -Film, "IfYou Love This Planet," Dr. Helen Caldicott producer, LaFortune little Theatre, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "Rethinking God: Conver­sion and Feminism," Dr. Catherine La Cugna, I 24 Center for Social Concerns 

•7:30 
p.m. -Presentation and Reception, Aetna Life and Casualty, Math and Economics Majors Welcome, Upper Lounge of University Club, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 

•8 
p.m. -ND/SMC Theatre, "Kitchen Gothic," little Theatre, $I 

•8:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Artistic Process: Sculpture," Snite Museum of Art, Sponsored by Friends ofthe Snite, $I friends and students 


TV Tonight · 
9:30p.m. 16 Cheers 28 It's Not Easy 
10p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 
Far Side( · . 
Chroniclw Fe•lllras. la82 
"Well, when it's my turn, I just hope I go quietly ... Without a lot of running around." 

44-Talmadge of movies 45i Rarln' 
togo 47 Fields 49 Go after 51 Chinese 
export 54 Weather 
phenomenon 57 Oh,woe! 58 Reesethe 11 Lug 12 Mimic 15 Egyptian 
deity 17 Birthplace 
of Livy 18 Restraints 23 Yorkshire 
river 25 Nosebag filler 
26 Pierces 
The Daily Crossword 
Wednesday's Solution 

11117183 


TONIGHT 7:00,9:00,11:00 Engi~J,_!rlas Auditorium $1 
Sponaored bv tlae O.ncla'Jn.• 

••·••·•************************ 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
. . .. .................. 
Sports 
Thursday, November 17, 1983-page 16 

Tom S/uby scores two ofhis I2 points against the Yugoslavia national team on a jumper, but his clutch reverse layup In the closing moments ofthe game proved to be the winning shot in the Irish victory, 75-73. See Will Hare's story at right. 
Last second Sluby shot shoves Notre Dame over Yugoslavians 
ByWILLHARE 
Sports Writer 

Exciting. No, it was not picturesque. But, yes, it was exciting. 
Although only an exhibition game was on the line, the Irish reached back and p~,;lled a 75-73 victory away from the Yugoslavian National team at the ACC last night. 
Tom Sluby scored a driving layup on a pass from Jim Dolan for Notre Dame's winning goal. 
Dolan, a 6-8 sophomore, had just forced a Yugoslavian backcourt violation to give the Irish the ball with 10 seconds remaining. 
"We double-trapped and he (Yugoslavia forward Mihovi Nakic) justlost the play," said Dolan. 
The Notre Dame basketball fans saw something they have not seen for a couple of years: an exciting team. 
Behind freshman guard Scott Hicks, the Irish rallied to overcome sloppy passing an earn the narrow 
win.  Hicks,  a  6-3  native  of  In­ 
dianapolis, led  the  Irish  with  20  
points.  

"It was a real physical game," said Hicks. "At the same time, it was a very paced game and it involved a lot of transition." 
But it was Hicks who created much of the action with three crafty steals, three assists, and a slam dunk follow which left the crowd agape. 
"He (Hicks) did a lot of good things out there on the floor," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "In fact, he was our third leading rebounding out there tonight." 
Playing against a tt·am which beat them three times this summer during Notre Dame's European tour, the Irish outrebounded Yugoslavia 41-29. 
"Notre Dame is a very good team," said Yugoslavian Head Coach Rusomir Halilovic. "This was a very good game for us because they played good defense and rebounded well offensively." 
"They (Yugoslavia) know our per­sonnel pretty well, especially the up-
Box score on page 
12 
pcrclassmen," added Phelps. "What bothered me was the fact that they came in here after losing four straight." 
The Yugoslavian team consisted of about seven players that will be playing for their Olympic team in Los Angeles in 1984. One ofthese is 19-year old phenom Drazen Petrovic, who led all scorers with 24 points. 
Petrovic, a 6-4 guard from Club Sibenka, scored 13 points in a game here last year and came hack to hit on 10 of I '5 shots l~t night. He is a member of the Yugoslavian Army and is rt·turning from a long basket· halllayoft: 
The National Team is now 1·'5 on their tour of tht· llnited States with losses to Marquette, Illinois, Michi­gan State, and Ohio State. Their lone win came against Wisconsin. 
The Irish showed that they have a very quick team by picking up ten steals. However, there were a few defensive lapses in the first half that resulted in easy baskets for the op­ponents. 
Turnovers arc characteristic of young teams and Notre Dame was no exception last night, committing 
16. Tim Kempton did not particular­ly have a very good game, commit­ting nine turnovers. 
"This was not Tim Kempton's game," stated Phelps. "Siuby and Price weren't on tonight but Hicks picked us up." 
Notre Dame began the game with Sluhy, Ken Barlow, Kempton,Joseph Price, and Dan Duff. At the first sub­stitution, Phelps sent in five new players who turnnl a four-point deficit into a nine-point kad. 
"It's great to be able to suhtitute five for five," said Phelps. "That real­ly impressed me the way the young­
er  kids  ( 2  sophomores  and  3  
freshmen)  turned  the  game  
around."  

"That's how competitive this team is going to be." 

The Epic of Blair Kiel 
The man supposed to be a legend, but turned out to be just a nice guy 
Editor's note: This is thefirst part of a two-part article on Blair Kiel mul his career at Notre Dame. 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
•fJorts Writer 
Pain bas an Element ofBlank 
It cmmot recollect 
When it begun or ifthere were 
A time u•ben it was not 
Emily Dickinson. 
Today marks a very special an­
niversary for Notre Dame quarter­
hack Blair Kiel. It was exactly four 
years to this day that he led his 
Columbus East High School football 
team to the Indiana AAA state foot­
ball championship. His touchdown 
pass to his brother, Kip, provided 
the winning margin in a 21-14 tri­
umph over traditional state power, 
Hobart. 
Life was good. He made every high-school All-American squad, and was generally regarded as the number-one prep-prospect in the nation. He received the highest honor in lndtana, the Phil Eskew award, which goes to the high school senior who best excels in mental attitude, scholarship, leader­ship, and athletic ability in football. Recruiters from coast to coast pleaded for his talents, but there was only one place to be for such a talented individual -Notre Dame, the home of legends. 
This Saturday marks another spe­cial day for Kiel. It marks the final time he will don the blue and gold in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Well, it was supposed to have been a special day, anyway. 
Life was fun the following Novem· 
ber for Kid once again. He was the 
No. I quarterback for the nation's 
No. I team. His role wa~ marginal, 
though, -mostly handing off to a 
tailback tandem that gained over 
I ,800 yards that year -and so wen: 
his statistics. The first calamities 
were in the making of a dishearten­
ingcareer. 
"The emphasis was totally on the 
running game," recalls Kiel. "We 
passed only on obvious passing 
downs for which the defenses were 
ready. I was just simply never taught 
the concept of reading defenses that 
year. I thought it was somewhat of 
an unfair situation since I didn't 
know what to look at." 
What the fans and press looked at 
was a final stat sheet that showed a 
39 percent pass completion rate, on­
ly '531 yards through the air, and 
zero touchdown passes. 
Kid's freshman year typified what 
the rest of his career would hold at 
Notre Dame -an admiration of his 
politeness and the way which he 
carried himself as a person, but a 
suspicion about his capability to car­
ry on the Notre Dame quarterback­
ing tradition. One writer for the 
Scholastic summed up a prevailing 
attitude about the freshman quarter· 
hack. 
While I bad admired Blairfor his honesty when be said after a game that his passing performance stunk, I also bad to admit I bad to agree with him. 
Some leaks had opened up, but the arrival of Gerry Faust the next year opened up the floodgates. 

Confused with Faust's system of alternating him with Tim Koegel, blasted for his mistakes, and mocked from the stands for his inability to live up to the balleyhooed potential he arrived with, Kiel's spirit was being shattered. 
A horrendous start that year im­mediately put him in the doghouse. Letters to the editor piled up. Blair Kiel is not a good quarterback; bell, be's not even a good punter. Is this player suppossed to lead the Irish? Be serious. Is there no one better? 
A nightmare in Miami to close out Notre Dame's first losing season in 18 years was the final straw. 
"I was gone," says Kiel about his intention to transfer from Notre Dame while the getting was good. "It had nothing to do with the school and its students, it was totally foot­ball related. I don't think that an in­dividual should have been treated the way I was that year." 
He changed his mind over Christmas break because he still valued the more important things in his life. 
"I came here first for the quality education that I knew I would receive," says Kid with sincerity. "There were also quality srudents here who were great to me. I made a committment to come here and I didn't want to back down on it. I didn't want to be known as a quit­ter." 
"If it hadn't been for some great friends to help me through, and the arrival of Coach Hudson the follow­ing spring, I would have had a very 
see KIEL page 12 



