• • • Nl}_cfnjck_~-p_age 2 

VOL XVII, NO. 74 thl" in<kpl"mknt stulknt rH."\\ ..,papl"r "l"n·ing notrt· Jaml" and ..,aint man··.., FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1983 
Officer slain 
Police kill seven religious fanatics 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) -Police stormed a house and killed seven religious zealots yesterday in a futile attempt to save a fellow officer who had been taken hostage and tortured before he was slain, authorities said. 
A police assault team lobbed tear gas into the modest residence of a former mental patient, opened fire with automatic weapons, and burst into the house shortly after 3 a.m. 
Killed in the shootout was Lindburg Sanders, 49, an un­employed construction worker who the mayor said described himself as "the black Jesus." and six other members of a religious group that believed the world was coming to an end. Authorities said the group also be specific about the injuries or the cause ofdeath. 
Mayor Dick Hackett said officials were afraid dynamite was in the house because the occupants threatened "a surprise" if police stormed the house. No dynamite was found. 
"We knew they had food stored inside," he said. "It was there be­cause they expected the world to end and had it there for their ritual. You had this man calling himself the black Jesus and the people in the house with him who thought they were his disciples." 
Police said they had been able to provide a definite identitv onlv for Sanders, a psychiatric patient since 1973. Police said they learned of Sanders' activities and those of his followers from friends, neighbors and relatives. 

Sanders' wife, Dorothy, had left her husband last Friday and said he believed the world was going to end Monday. His psychiatrist said San­ders drank no water because he believed it was forbidden in the Bible, and neighbors said a hand­painted sign bearing the head of a pig in his front yard may have been a reference to his abstention from pork. 


:~~~~h~f~:e~~l~~t as "anti-Christ" Administration considers 
Also found dead was patrolman 
R.S. ~ester 34, who had been taken 
capttve by Sanders on Tuesday. 
Police Director John D. Holt said the decision to assault the house came after police with electronic eavesdropping devices heard someone inside the house say, "The devil is dead." 
Police said they were met by gunfire from at least two rooms of the three-bedroom house whose windows had been nailed shut with the doors barricaded with furniture. 
Authorities believe Hester, who was married but had no children, had been killed several hours earlier. 
"The battered body of the police officer was found just inside the front door," Holt told reporters. "His hands were cuffed behind his back." 
A patrolman, who asked not to be 
identified, said, "I've known Hester 
for years. After what they did to him 
1 couldn't recognize him ...We 
waited too long." 
Holt said Hester suffered 
numerous InJUries, and police 
sources said the patrolman could be 
heard screaming for help after he 
was seized. Authorities declined to 

hi•gher taxes 0 n energy 
WASHINGTON (AP) The Reagan administration is consider­ing a broad-based tax on energy con­sumption as an option for raising S40 billion or more in fiscal 1986 if it is needed to reduce the govern­ment's swollen deficits, administra­tion sources said yesterday. 
The sources said energy taxes are high on Treasury Secretary Donald 
T. Regan's list of possible revenue sources that would "trigger in" after Oct. 1, 1985, if required to keep the government's red ink below S100 billion. 
Regan disclosed Wednesday that he had proposed several contin­gency tax options to the president, including an income tax surcharge, but he refused to identify any of the other proposals, saying the presi­dent had not yet made any final deci­sions. 
A decision may come soon. Reagan must submit his budget for fiscal 1984, which begins next fall, to Congress by the end ofJanuary. 
The sources, who requested anonymity, said Regan had several variations of energy taxes and income tax surcharges in mind. 
The energy options include a fee on imported oil; a tax that could be extended to domestic oil as well as imports; a so-called BTU (British thermal unit) tax that sets levies based on the heat content of coal, hydroelectric and nuclear power, natural gas and petroleum; and a "windfall profits" tax or a severance tax on natural gas that would be tied to removal of federal price controls in 1985. 
See TAXES, page 6 

McCandless, Holy Cross 


Students relocated to new housing 
BySANDYVAlENZUELA Relocated students "were given a them in the cafeteria and I visit them 
StaffReporter 

choice of what we have available," and we know where each other said Minnie Owens, housing coor-live." Social space is now available in dinator. Holy Cross has had some com-
McCandless and Holy Cross halls as a There was a priority system, even plaints, admits Hall Director Lisa result of the relocation of students though they were in temporary Schulte, but not nearly as many as 
who were temporarily housed housing. Earlier applicants were she expected. "When we had both there.
Weigert resigns post, 

allowed to choose their rooms first. parlors with students, we had basi­The admissions department usual­"The areas they are in are where cally no social space ...We had one
accepts new appointment 
ly accepts a few more students than they wanted to be," said Owens. of the parlors back early in the they can actually provide housing According to Michelle Valley, semester." for, anticipating that some ofthe stu­McCandless hall director, there The student opinion of the parlor
By MIKE LEPRE 
dents will choose to attend another were no complaints from McCand-used as temporary housing varies. 
SeniorStaffReporter 
college. According to Sister Karol less residents about the lack ofsocial Said one student,"It didn't incon­
Jackowski, director ofresidence life, space. Since there is no chapel in venience me at all. In fact, I felt bad Kathleen Weigert, assistant dean in the College ofArts and Letters, 
however, this year's dropout rate McCandless, the masses have been that they were thrown into that has resigned her post after 3 1/2 years in order to accept an appoint­
was even lower than the usually low held in the piano room. "At this situation." Some agreed with her ment as assistant director for social analysis in the Center for Social 
dropout rate. The students tem­point,"said Valley,"there has been opinion.
Concerns. 
porarily housed in the Holy Cross no space asked for that we couldn't Another student stated that it was "Although 1 have thoroughly enjoyed being an assistant dean," 
parlor were relocated to a quint. The provide." quite an-inconvenience. "If you had said Weigert, "I am certainly looking forward to the challenges in­
students in McCandless temporary One of the students living in tern-anybody over you really couldn't sit volved in my new position." 
housing chose rooms that were porary housing in McCandless and anywhere. If you did, they'dThe recent merger ofthe Center for Experiential Learning and the 
vacated in LeMans, Regina, and now living in a triple in the same hall say,'You're talking too loud!"' Other Volunteer Services Office created the need for an administrator who 
McCandless. 

said,"! like it. As far as I can see right students agreed. "You couldn't play
could help to coordinate these two programs. 
"They knew that they would have now, we're going to get along .. .I'm ping-pong or pool. While watchingAccording to Weigert, she has accepted "a brand new position 
to move so they didn't expect to stay 
making new friends while keeping TV they'd be making noise -a little which was a direct result of the coming together of these offices." 
there," said Jackowski. At the begin­my old friends." -and the phone would ring."
Weigert calls her resignation "technically a lateral move from one ning of the semester, the students~ "It might be a little easier to meet The students that lived in the Holyposition as an assistant into another," and she believes that by 

had signed release forms which people because I'm on the floor and Cross parlor noticed the resentment "working with both faculty members and students we will be able to 
stated they would move when space always seeing people," she said. of the other residents while theyhelp to develop many educational opportunities in the area ofsocial 
was made available. "These areas are "There's really not that great ofa dif-were in the parlor. "They wanted us concerns." 
fairly isolated and they appreciated ference." out," said one student. Another Weigert's office will operate in the former WNDU building. The 
being placed with other students, In chosing her present room she added,"One girl yelled,'We can't refurbished structure now houses the newly established Center for 
especially in McCandless," she said,"I didn't want a single. I was wait until you get out of there!"' Social Concerns. She will assume her role as assistant director Mon­
added. givn a fair number of choices. I was day, and hopes to help create a "central place for students to go in 
According to Jackowski, off­familiar with the hall and how it ran. In moving, they wanted to stay to­order to help serve their various needs." 
campus students wishing a room on I knew people in the hall and wanted gether. One of the women said,'' She Because of the newness of her job, Weigert says that her oppor­
campus have had the opportunity. to get to know them better." (Owens) was really nice. She helped tunities "are wide open, and therefore they can be 1.1.sed to create 
"There are three or four spaces on She showed some regret at us out a lot and tried to keep us all many new programs." 
campus. Ifthey were offcampus and leaving her friends from temporary together." When a quint was Weigert's vacated position will be filled by Father Robert Austgen. 
wanted to be on, they'd already be housing. "We were all really close vacated, with Owens' help, the here." :1ncl """' ant alnmt reallv well I...stt_ women moved in. 






NewsBrie_b 
Bv The Obsen•er and The Associated Press 
The papersofthe late FatherJohn Cavanaugh, president of Notre Dame from 1946 to 1952, will be catalogued with the support of a S25,000 gift from Charles M. Reagan of New York City, a close triend and 1917 alumnus. Cavanaugh died on December 28, 1979, at the age of 80. Prior to becoming Notre Dame's 14th president, 
I Cavanaugh had served as vice president and chairman ofthe Faculty 
• I 
Board in Control of Athletics, as campus prefect of religion, and as
I 
assistant provincial superior of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
I 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, who succeeded 
Cavanaugh as Notre Dame's president 30 years ago, paid tribute to him as ··my mentor as well as a distinguished predecessor. Charlie Reagan's gift," he said, "betokens the great affection and admiration which we shared for a splendid priest and great university president. The Univer!>ity and I are grateful to him."-The Observer 
The number ofCatholics in the nation's House of Representatives is up, but the number of Notre Dame alumni is down by one. According to a survey by Americans United for Separa­tion ofChurch and State, 124 of435 representatives are Catholic, up from the 118 in the 97th Congress two years ago. With the defeat of Ronald Mottl ( D-Ohio ), however, there are five instead ofsix Notre Dame alumni in the House. They are Thomas Corcoran (R-Ill.), Joseph Gaydos ( D-Pa. ), Daniel Lundgren ( R-Calif. ), Roman Mazzoli (D-Ky.) and Joseph McDade (R·Pa. ). The number ofCatholics in the Senate -17 -remains unchanged. None are Notre Dame graduates. The next largest faith groups in the new Congress are the United Methodists with 73 members and the Episcopalians with 61. -The Observer 
The American Red Cross is offering courses in water safety and first aid. The Water Safety Instructors class will begin tomorrow at 9 a.m. in Rockne Memorial. Prerequisites for this class are a current life saving card and swimmer level certificate or ability. The Standard First Aid class will be held onJan. 18 andJan. 20 from 6 to 10 p.m. in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. The Advanced First Aid course will also be in 218 Rockne Memorial. The prere­quisites for this class are standard first aid and CPR. For more in­formation or to register, leave name with Brother l.ouis Hurcik in Room 215 Rockne orcall239-5043 or 239-6321.-The Observer 
The parents Ofa 3-year-old rural DeMotte, In­diana boy who was fatally beaten in August were each sentenced to 10 years in prison yesterday. Judge Duane Daugherty ofJasper Cir­cuit Court sentenced Larry and Lucy Lonadier in connection with the death of their son Bradley. Lucy Lonadier was given the 10-year sentence, with nine years suspended. With good behavior, she will be out ofJasper CountyJail on Feb. 25, authorities said. 
Larry Lonadier was given the 10-year sentence, but with seven years suspended. With good behavior, he will be released from the jail Feb. 5, 1984. Bradley died Aug. 6 following a beating Aug. 2 by his father, court records show. The Lonadiers testified earlier that Steve Jackson, leader of a religious cult at their home, had urged them to beat the child as a way of disciplining him. The Lonadiers testified that Jackson controlled the members of the Community Covenant Fellowship. Daugherty sentenced Jackson on Jan. 5 to 20 years in prison for his part in the death. He is being held in the Lake County Jail pending an appeal. -AP 
The Kremlin said today that the resignation of u.s. nuclear arms control chiefEugene V. Rostow was another sign ofthe "serious differences now rending" the Reagan administration. "The most reactionary American circles who oppose any agreements with the U.S.S.R. pressed for Mr. Rostow's resignation," Radio Moscow said. The official Tass news agency said Rostow quit because of "serious differences with Reagan's people concerning the problems of arms control, the tactics" of the Americans at nuclear missile reduction talks in Geneva. In resigning Wednesday, Rostow said, "In recent days it has become clear that the president wished to make changes. In response to his request, I have tendered my resignation." He submitted his resignation apparently after losing a battle with Senate hardliners who were displeased with his assistants and with his handling ofarms control negotiations. -AP 
Several environmental groups say they are filing a lawsuit against Interior SecretaryJames Watt to overturn his decision removing wilderness protection from thousands ofacres in 10 Western states. The suit was to be filed today in federal district court in Sacramento, Calif Terry Sopher, a spokesmanfor the Wil­derness Society, said California was chosen because it is one of the states most affected. by Watt's decision. The environmental groups are contending among other things that Watt violated requirements that he prepare an environmental impact statement on his action. Watt provoked a storm of protest two weeks ago when he an­nounced he was removing 805,000 acres ofland from further study as candidates to be included in the SO-million-acre wilderness protection system. Watt contended that the land had been im­properly included along with :?.4 million acres of Interior Depart­ment land which is being surveyed for possible inclusion in the wilderness system. -AP 
A 60 percent chance ofrain today with some freez­ing possibly occurring in the morning. The highs will be in the mid 30s. Rain changing to snow later in the afternoon. A 70 percent chance of snow tonight with the low in the low to mid 20s. Snow flurries and cold tomorrow with the high in the mid 20s. -AP 
Friday, January 14, 1983-page 2 

A nation of nudnicks? 
America, land of the free. land of liberty, land of the brave, but a land ofthe nudnicks~ I'm beginning to think so. 
While the world continues down the roau to economic ruin, most people in thi~ country have some sense of hope for the future because they are "Americans." They labor under the delusion that "here in the United States things arc always better." 
Unfortunately, this probably isn't true. All around us are signs of a national stasis. On the great track tleld of civilization, our once great country seems hound and determined to pass the baton of progress to someone else. 
Take a look on the funnies pages ofour newspapers. Back when this country was growing by leaps and bounds and proving the viability of democracy, the most popular comic strips were Superman and Popeye. Together the Man of Steel and the Man of Spinach protected the weak and promoted "Truth, Justice, and 
bought the latest collection of this drivel, "I just love Garfield because I can under­stand him. All those other comics try to be clever and I hate to think." There you have it, humor reduced to the level of the illiterate. Garfield is more than just an ex­ercise in inanity, it is a good example of the faddish plagues that routinely sweep across the land. 
Walk into any store this Christmas, and you could buy Garfield cups, napkins, posters, binders, pens, cookies, calenders, candy, and loads of other useless items to satisfy a nation too loose with its wallet. And there is more to come. The popularity of Garfield has not in­spired other cartoonists to come up with clever strips to put that feline inanity in its place. No, instead, in the past year the comic pages of America are suddenly lit­tered with ill-tempered babies, children, dogs, and as­sorted other vermin "entertaining" us with their selfish complaints. 
One local paper has filled the spot sadly left open by Doonesbury's hiatus with a bubble-headed bimbo 

Design Editor........................... Kay Holland 
Desigr~Assistants Reggie Daniel"Yes it's over!" Tom Small "This is it!" 
Typesetters ........................ Toni and Reggie News'Edltor .................................. Vic Sciulli Copy Editor............ , ..................... Tim Neely 
Features Layout ..................joe Musumeci 
Editorials Layout..................... Tari Brown 
Sports Copy Editor............ Rich O'Connor 
Typist.. .............................. Mary Beth Porter 
Monica Gugle 
ND Day Editor.......................... Tim Peuers 
.\MC Day Editor.................... Bruce Oakley 
Ad Design .................................... .. Bob Slota 
Photographer .................. Melinda Hopkins 
Guest Appearances WSNU's Sting and llis 
Magic Music Machine, Cathy says No!, A few strange people, and Griff 
"To hell with this music!" 
The Observer (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnda y and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnptlons may be purchased for $25 per year i$t 5 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
Spring Break Social Concerns Seminar 
in 


WASHINGTON D.C. INFORMATION NIGHT 

Library Lounge 7pm Nlon., Jan. 11 



Corby's '"Weekend Special'' 
Fri Introducing Budweiser 
Dra;ft Happy Hour4-8 Pitchers $2· 95 
(FREE SNACK TRA VS) 

Sat Margaritas Liters $5· 95 
(all ni~rht) FREE HOT CHEESE NACHOS 



Go ND, Beat Marquette!! 

Ryan Ver Berkmoes 
Monoging Editor 

Inside Friday 

named Cathy. Each day, she cries on about her own neuroses, stupidity, men, and food. This strip is an al­front to all women. Worse yet, a recent issue of USA Todl~V reports that by Valentine's Day, our nations stores will teaming with Cathy candy, clothes. oven mit· tens, diaries, lip gloss, and more. 
What ever happened to individuality? We as a people are informed what we: must have to make us happy and then blindly march to the store like so many drones. This year's Garfield calender is next year's component 
courages such neurosis but urges the reader to live life awash in self-feeding mental masturbation. 
Rsther than deducing a problem and taking action, we ponder it. Rather than pursuing progress and a bet· ter life for all, we pursue ourselves. Are we to become a nation ofGarfields and Cathys? 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views of The Observer or its editorial board. 

the American Way." The heroes displayed qualities of honor and modesty. 
Now look what is the most popular comic strip in the country. It is about a lazy, fat, ill-tempered cat. Each day a record number of Americans eagerly turn to the latest episode of Gar­field, a repulsive, bug-eyed creature that embodies so much ofwhat is wrong with this country. And what wit! "I hate Mondays" and "I hate >'>:·~~,.,..-r...,~ to diet" are the clever premises day after day. 
Recently while in a bookstore I overheard a cus­tomer telling the clerk as she of a New Jersey landfill, this year's Cathy underwear is next year's dustrag. 
Americans no longer seem compelled to pursue quality or individual thought. Our society is celebrating selfishness and arrogance. The pursuit of knowledge is no longer a virtue. The same bookstores that peddle Garfield and related ilk are well stocked with books on self-help. A reader who is "bummed out," "a victim of non· cheery vibes," or just not sure they are satisfied with "their life-space," can find a book that not only en· 


The Observer Friday,)anuary 14, 1983-page 3 



Dance marathon to highlight Mardi Gras 
By CATHY PAX 
StaffReporter 
This year's :'llotre Dame Mardi Gras may not outshine the gala fes­tival in :-.lew Orleans. but the many exciting events planned will liven up the t1rst week of February. 
A snow sculpture contest is scheduled to kick off the festivities "provided we have snow by then.'' said Karen Klocke. Mardi Gra~ chair­man. Students arc encouraged to sign up in groups from their hall to compete. DJ services for a party will be awarded to the two dorms with the best creations. 
On Thursday, Feb . .3. Shenanigans and a student jazz band will perform Dixieland and ragtime selections in the Nazz to help create the spirit of the New Orleans celebration. 
A talent show will be held in the Nazz the following night. 
The "biggest event" according.to Klocke will be a twelve-hour marat­hon dance contest in the South Dining Hall on Saturday, Feb. 5. It is scheduled to last from I p.m. to 1 
a.m. with music provided by WSND disc jockeys for the first eight hours. There are tentative plans for a band to entertain the closing four hours. 
Dancers are encouraged to come in costume. Prizes will be awarded for the best dressed couple as well as for their dandng ability. Couples can sign up through their Mardi Gras·· hall representatives or in the dining halls as soon as possible. 
Dancers must sell I 0 tickets at 52 each as sponsorship in order to par­ticipatc. Students who sponsor a couple are admitted to the dance be­tween <) p.m. and I a.m. and will receive a coupon for Barnaby's piz­za. Other students will be able to pay at the door. 
Dancers who sell 20 tickets. stu­dents who sponsor a couple and those who attend the dance are eligible for a variety of door prizes. 
a comprehensive plan for withdrawal of all Israeli troops from
British Prime Minister 
Lebanon. Israeli Defense Minister Ariel Sharon said he was sure the

returnsfrom Falklands 
LONDON ( AP) -Prime \1inister Margaret Thatcher returned home today from a surprise five-day tour of the Falkland Islands, the South Atlan­tic archipelago over which Britain and Argentina fought an undeclared war last year. 
The prime minister's Royal Air Force VC-1 0 jet touched down at Brize Norton Royal Air Force base near Oxford at 9 a.m. ( 4 a.m. EST) after a 23-hour, 8,000-mile journey. 
Thatcher, accompanied by her husband, Denis, and her aides, was driven immediately to London. 
The prime minister left the Falklands Wednesday morning aboard an RAF Hercules cargo plane after touring abandoned Argentine positions on Tumbledown Moun­tain, scene of heavy fighting during the 74-day conflict. 
Before leaving, she said the tour was a "personal pilgrimage" to thank the British troops who ousted Ar­gentine invasion forces from the British colony last June 14 and to reassure the islanders of Britain's commitment to defend the islands indefinitely. 
Two fully armed Phantom fighter 
jets escorted the Hercules across the 
British-impo~ed 200-mile South At­
lantic exclusion zone on the first leg 
ol its 1.~-hour flight to the mid­
Atlantic ~taging po~t of:\~cension b­
land. 
After a brief stopon:r. the prime 
mini~ter"s part\ tran~krred to the 
\ <.-l 0 tran~port jet for the !Ina) leg 
of the trip. 
Thatcher made no comment to 
reporters waiting at Brize '-;orton. 
During her surprise tour of the negotiators "will arrive at security arrangements and normalization as 
Falklands, Thatcher visited British 

the llrst stage to peace between Is­
military installations and spoke in­rael and Lebanon." 

dividually with half of the 1.800 

Through four semi-weeklyBritish-descended islanders. 
meetings in this northern Israeli Argentina invaded the Falklands town and the south Beirut suburb of 
last April 2 to assert its claim to the Khaldc. the Israelis insisted that the 

islands, 250 miles off its southern negotiators first agree on normaliza­

coast. 

tion of relations between the two na-
Eating Disorders 
• Anorexia Nervosa 
• Bulimia 
An illness that makes people starve, vomit or purge because they think they are fat 


The grand prize will he a trip to the Mardi Gras in :'~Jew Orleans. Addi­tional prizes will he awarded to couples who sell the most tickets and turn their tickets in the earliest. 
Gerry Faust and other Notre Dame celebrities are expected to at­tend. 
All money raised by the \lardi Gra~ will benefit Notre Dame and South Bend chaiities. including Big Brothers and Sisters, Logan Center. CILA. and the World Hunger Coali­tion. 
A new aspect of the Mardi Gras this year allows participating stu­dents to designate which charity will benellt from their efforts. In dorm contests, the Social Concerns chairman will select the charity. 

Funds can also be directed to a general charity fund to be adminis­tered by the Mardi Gras committee. This change will hopefully em-Pat~}' McElroy, Sue Faccenda and Patricia Pur­face the unenjoyable task of unpacking and phasize the charity aspect of the cell returnedfrom London this semesterand now moving back to campus. (Photo by Melinda Hop­Mardi Gras. 
kins) 
Members of charity organizations are encouraged to participate in the planned events and "support some­


Pressure from Reagan 
thing that supports themselves." This is the second year of a non­gambling Mardi Gras. the result of a 




Israel, Lebanon to resume talks 
1981 ruling by Bishop William McManus of the So11th Bend-Fort 

KIRYAT SHMONA, brae! (AP) ­
Wayne diocese. which prohibited 

Pressure from President Reagangambling in the diocese. The 1981 broke a three-week deadlock yester­festival. the last before the ruling. 
day as Israel and Lebanon agreed to w.a~ a I0-day carnival consisting negotiate simultaneouslv on theprimar'i1y ·of g~mes of chance that withdrawal of Israeli and other
took place iri dorm-sponsored 

foreign troop~ from Lebanon and on·booths in Stepan Center. This was a 
future relations between Israel and very successful means of raising Lebanon. 
money for charity. 

De~pite agreement on a com­Last year's total earnings. es-promise agenda giving priority totimatcd at between S6,000 and neither issue, the two governments$10,000, was much lower than made clear that in the negotiationsfigures from previous years. Klocke each would put its primary concern
hopes to rai~e S16,000 this year. 

first.
"Hopefully. since this is the second Lebanese officials in Beirut said year of the new Mardi Gras, it will be 

when the Israeli. Lebanese and more popular with students," said American negotiators get down toKlocke. 
business at their next meeting :VIon­day, their delegation would propose 
A 10-week 
structured th.erapy 
group every Monday 
evening, beginning 
Notre Dame campus 
Limited Enrollment 
For further information 
Contact: 
Dan Rybicki, PSY.D. Susan Steibe, PH.D. 239-7336 Mary Theis, M.A. 284-4565 
tions, while the Lebanese demanded priority for withdrawal of the es­timated 60,()00 Israeli. Syrian and Palestinian troops. 
At the fifth meeting Monday in Khalde, both Lebanon and Israel ac­cepted ~pecial l!.S. envoy \!orris Draper's propo~al for concurrent negotiations on all the issues. but each demanded changes. Agree­ment finally came at the ~ixth meeting after Philip C. Habib. Reagan's chief :\Iiddle East envoy. arrived from Washington with word that the president was growing im· patient and wanted an end to the deadlock. 
The Lebanese concessions in­cluded agre t eing to negotiate a for­mal end to the state of war between Israel and Lebanon. Previously Lebanon argued that no state of war existed, and that the armistice mac­hinery dating hack to the 1948 Arab­Israeli war could handle border problems. 
Another Lebanese concession was agreement to the inclusion of such peace-inducing elements as trade. open borders and an end to hostile propaganda. 
Israel compromised by dropping 
its demand that•"normalization of 
relations" be included in the agenda. 
Lebanon rejected the word 
Live for God and His People as a ... 



Capuchin 

a what? 
Capuchin Franciscans are a religious fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in 
I' , ~ the Spirit of Francis of Assisi 'in today's 
• ' world. Join us in promoting peace, education 
. ' 
· and JUstice--in ghettoes... in jails... in soup kitchens... in parishes... in halfway houses... on radio and TV. 
Join us in working with and for the advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, native Americans and people of the Third World in Central America. 
Check out whether being a Capuchin, committed to living for God and his people, in the spirit of Francis, is for you. No obligation. Write today for more 
•••information. 

...... ________ ... Clip and Mail Today! . Father John Holly, OFM Capuchin, 1820 Mt. Elliott Avenue. 
Detroit. Ml 48207 

Yes, send me information about the Capuchin way of life. 
Name Age ____ 
College ________ Address ______ State ______ Zip ____
City 
"normalization" because it feared this would alienate the Arab oil countries from which it wants reconstruction money. 
They said the withdrawal plan the Lebanese would propose at the negotiating session \1onday in Khalde would include a timetable and would declare Lebanon ready to negotiate security arrangements to facilitate the pullout of the es­timated 2';,000 Israeli soldiers in central and southern Lebanon. 
They said Lebanon would also pledge to negotiate withdrawal of the estimated 6.000 to I0.000 Pales­tinian guerrillas in northern and eastern Lebanon before the Israeli pullout and to negotiate withdrawal of the estimated :\0,000 Syrian troops in eastern and northern Lebanon simultaneously with the Is­raeli withdrawal. 


; 
The Observer Friday,January 14, 1983-page 4 

l ' 
Some students like Philo majorjohn Breslin think that it's never too early to start studyingforfinals. (Photo by Melinda Hopkins) 
··~ 
i
• 
• CII~EIHAI * 


monday night film series II 
An excellent collect•on of German fttms both claSSIC and recem and both stlent and sound To be held 1n contunct•on Wtlh COTH 320­Aspects of Ftlm German Cmema and MLGR 350-German Ctnema and sponsored by the Depanment of Communtcal10n and Theatre All showmgs at the Annenberg Auditorium, The S'lite Museum of Art, Notre Dame Campus at 9 00 P m tnd•v•duat AdmtSStons $2 00 SePes Ttcket Any 25 ftlms from three senes $30 00 Any 15 films from !llree senes $22 00 

January 11 
Cabinet of Dr. Caligari '''''91 Rooert Wrene BtW 50 mm Stlent Wtene's Silent ctasstc has exerCtSed a constderaOie ard lastrng rn­ltuence It rematns to !hts day a stnkmg ctnernatrc expenmel'lt tn expres­SIOnism 
January 24 
Nosferatu ,19221 F W Murrtau B/W 90 mtn . Stlent Along wtlh Cabmet and one or twO others Murnau·s 1921 f1lm became !he progentlor ol a Noaa of horror mov•es but nowhere has the creattve ootenttal at !he genre tJ.aen better explored than '" th1s fum 
January 3i 
M (19311 FrtiZ Lang. 8/W. 99 mtn Constdered Lang s greatest ltlm thts was the movte whiCh mtroduced Peter Lorre to aud,ences as a psychopathiC chrtd murderer 
February 1 
Blue Angeli19291 Josef von Sternberg. B.IW 94 mm Sternberg·s 1930 ftlm IS a classrc portrayal of an older professor who 1S brought down by h1s confrontalton w1th Eros. 1n the forr1 of Marlene Dtetnch 
February 14 
Triumph of the ·wllli1934i Lent Atefenstahl BIW. 80 m1n • Hlller commiSStoned the talen!ed Lent Rtelenstahl h.> do ttus 111m. one of the most polished propaganda documentartes ever made 
February 21 
Hitlerjunge Quex (19331 Hans Ste1nholf. 8/W. 92 m1n Ste1nhoffs 1933 ftlm ts an example of c1nemat1c propaganda at tis 1deolog1cal worst and techmcal best 
February 28 
The Fraulein of Barnhelm (19401 Hans Swe1kart. 8/W. 92 mtn Hans Swetkart's 1940 adaptatton of Lesstng·s comedy 1s a subtle but un~ mtstakable product of the Nazt era 
Thanks to decision 
Natural gas prices to rise again 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Natural 

gas customers, already struggling 
with price increases of 25 percent 
this winter, could see their monthly 
bills go up by as much as 2.5 percent 
on top of that this spring under a 
federal agency's decision yesterday. 
The Federal Energy Regulatory 

Commission said its decision could 
mean a price increase of S12 a year 
for the average residential customer, 
whose bills for 1983 are expected to 
total about 5637. 
The action, approved in a 5-0 vote, comes in settlement of a lengthy dispute over what prices producers should be allowed to recover for the cost ofgathering and compressing natural gas for ship-· ment on pipelines to local distribu­tion companies. 
The 1978 law decontrolling natural gas prices in step through 1985, the reason of this winter's 25 percent increase, also provided for extra charges for the cost of prepar­ing gas for transmission. The com­mission's action yesterday settles what those charges will be. 
The full 2.5 percent would apply if gas producers will be able to pass on all extra charges permitted by the commission's decision in a slack market. However, commission offi-
Marcil 7 

Young Torless 119661 Volker Schlondorlf 8/W, 87 rntn Tne mter.na11ona1 acclatm of the ··New German CtneT"'""ta· can be dated to lhtS 1966 him ot Schlondorfl an adaptatron of the Must( novel 
March 2' 

Marriage of Maria Braun •19781 Harner Werner Fassb1nder color 120 mtn Fasst:mder s rnost spectacular and successful 111m m1xes soc1al sa!lre. sexual comedy and per rod ptece as 11 chrontcles the story . ·' Marta Bra._.n Hanna Schygulla IS a stunnrng metaphOr ot postwar Germany an her rote as Mana 
March 28 

Aguirre, Wrath of God 19731 Werner Herzog. color 94 mtn Hf'r.1'oQ s 1973 masterpiece 15 a v1sually gnpptng examtna!IOn of tm­perta!rsm gone mad as 11 traces the exped1!10f1 of a SparHsh con· QUtStador m search ol [I Dorado l<':!aus Krnskt as A~u11re turns tn one of 
~he best performances of hts career 
A.pn/11 

Nosferatu ,t9791 Werner Herzog color 106 mtn Herzog·s 1nterpretat1on of the Dracula story IS a remake at and tribute to tne Murnau classtc 
Apn/ 18 

Sisters or: The Balance of Happlness(1981i Margarethe von Trotta. color. 95 mtn Margarethe von Troua·s 1981 f1lm focuses on the CO'lfiiCI between two s1sters and the difference of sens1btli!tes between the two 
Apfl/2~ 

Tales from the VIenna Woods (19811 Max Schell. color. 110 mtn Based on the 1931 play by Horvath. Max Schell's 1981 111m IS a percep­ltve exptorat1on of common people and thetr values m a decay1:1g V1en. na of 1930. a c1ty r1pe for plucktng by NaiiOnal Soc1allsm 

cials said they thought competition would hold down the increase. 
The ruling will allow for increases from all consumers, residential, commercial and industrial, of $3 bil­lion a year until 1985, when the an­nual figure will drop to 11>1.8 billion. The higher charges in the early years permit the producers to recover preparation costs since 1980, when the case first came before the com­mission. 
While commission officials said they were just carrying out the law,· consumer groups blasted the deci­sion as totally unjustified in light of the 150 percent price increases 
natural gas customers have had to shoulder since Congress began the decontrol ofgas in 1978. 
Commission General Counsel Charles Moore said consumers would not begin seeing the in­
creases in their bills until May be­cause of the time it will take to implement the decision. 


U.S. refuses to return Chinese tennis player 
WASHINGTON (AP) The United States is preparing to inform Peking it cannot return a star Chinese tennis player '\vho defected last July and has spent "months of sleepless nights" worrying about her fate, sources said yesterday. 
China has been demanding the return of Hu Na, 19, apparently on grounds that a U.S. decision to grant her political asylum could touch off a wave of similar requests from other Chinese visitors, mostly stu­dents, who number in the thousands. 
But "we would never send her back," a top U.S. official said. "We would never clamp her in irons and send her back to the mainland." 
He and other officials, who asked not to be identified_, said a State Department advisory opiniot) was sent recently to the Immigration and Naturalization Service:-whi~h has ul­timate responsibility in the case. The decisions of the immigration service normally reflect the views of the State Department. 
Meanwhile, the months of uncer­tainty have left their mark on Hu, who left her team during a tourna­ment in Santa Clara, Calif., last July and has been in hiding since. 
"l"ve talked to Hu Na and I know she"s frustrated over the very long waiting," said her attorney. Edward 
C.Y. Lau. "I also know that the unc·•·­
tainty over whether she'll be able to stay or if she'll get deported out of the country has been the source of months ofsleepless nights for her." 
Hu has been living with various Mandarin-speaking families in California and now is in the northern part of the state, Lau said. When she came here, she had the equivalent of a grammar school education and spoke no English. 
"She's studying English and trying to do her best to keep herself in some decent condition," Lau said. 
China has reacted strongly to her defection, threatening to curtail cul­tural exchanges with the United States, curbing the travel of other athletes and canceling participation in several events, including a tennis tournament in Florida last month. 
There have been unconfirmed reports that China has threatened to shut down its consulate in San Fran­cisco if Hu is granted political asylum. 
The State Department is eager for the Immigration Service to move quickly in the case. An early decision would limit the impact of the issue on the scheduled visit to Peking hy Secretary of State George P. Shultz early next month. oftkials said. 
!~:~~;~:;;;~~~~!Ji::•;!::;;~c..c•i~~;_~:ie.-.::~~~>1£<~' 

r
t~~ Attention All Those _/
~­


1 Interested In "~~N TOSTAL" ~ 
~ Interviews for Executive Committee Positions 
i! are starting now. ai See Margaret, the Student Government Se~retary, ~ p on the second floor LaFortune, for an appomtment, ~ I before Wednesday, Jan.19,1983. I ii Ant questions· cal/239·7668 ~ ~ ~ ~f~~~:~::>.1C!C9~~~ 

---~~-~----­
The Observer 
Graduate with class 

Grads invited to Commencement 


By MIKE KRISKO 
News Staff 
Students graduating at mid-term are not "left out in the cold," as some people believe. All 155 graduates and undergraduates awarded degrees at the end of the fall semes­ter were invited back to the official commencement excercises in May. 
Father Robert Griffin, University Chaplain, observed that it was sad not to have a ceremony to mark the end ofa college career. He indicated that around eight years ago, while be was the rector of Keenan Hall, he came up with the idea of holding a special Mass and dinner for early­graduating Keenan students. 
When Griffin was named the Uni­versity chaplain, he thought it would be a good idea to expand the program to include all mid-term graduates. 
Griffin pointed out that the din­ners were well attended. The ad­ministration and the student affairs commitees encouraged the program. In recent years Griffin has had to discontinue his practice. There was a time, he said, when the senior class picked up part ofthe ex­penses for the meal. Now, without the support of the senior class and with rising prices, it would be dif­ficult to sponsor such an event. 
Even though many students received degrees at the end of the fall semester, not all ofthem can par­ticipate in the May 1983 graduation· ceremony. Sullivan pointed out that students receiving degrees in seven semesters could return for the May 1983 commenceent excercises. Stu­dents receiving degrees after nine semesters ofstudy attended the May 1982 graduation ceremonies. 

Sister John Jones, the assistant 
provost, described the policy on ear­
ly graduation. 
"Earlygraduation is self-selected," she said. "The university neither promotes nor discourages the practice." Jones also pointed out that the student who returns for the May commencement excercises is not deprived of anything. "(Those who come back) have the same priv­leges as the rest of their class. They receive the same number of guest tickets, are served the same meals, and have the same access to reduced rate housing for relatives and guests," she said. 
Griffin added that finishing col­lege early can be advantageous. "The student saves a semester's tui­tion. and has a head start on the job market," he said. 
Friday,}anuary 14, 1983-page 5 

Drug .enforcement 


Cops go undercover in schools 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -It took George Flores two weeks to find a drug supplier among his classmates at Franklin High School, a girl George recalls as a "punk rocker" who sat in front of him in English class. 
"We just started talking about drugs. She knew her dealers and I asked if I could meet them. She never introduced me, but she'd buy for me." 
joe Bravo had a harder time making connections at Belmont High. "I wasn't from the neighbor­hood or Central America," where many of Belmont's students were horn. "They're very tight -it took me a month to make my first buy." 
' You try to refrain from making friends because you know you have to bust'em.' 
Every time George and Joe bought drugs, the marijuana, has­hish, PCP, psychedelic mushrooms or cocaine wound up in boxes at the Los Angeles Police Department's Juvenile Division. The two students are policemen, recruited right out of the Police Academy. 
Their deceptively youthful looks and lack of street exposure made them perfect candidates for the LAPD's "School Buy Program," an 8­year-old effort to catch drug sellers month in training before entering schools. "They all get a crash course iri what it's like to be an undercover narc. Most of them have never purchased before so they don't know how," says Taylor. 
George Flores, 1..., -actually George Lopez, 22 -signed up for English, art, auto shop, math and a health class at Franklin. In real life a I978 graduate of Los Angeles' Fair­fax High, he claimed he was transfer­ring from a high school in Texas. 
"I thought it was a lot different than when I went through high school and it really wasn't that long ago," Lopez says. "A lot of the stu-· dents I busted were lOth graders just corning into the school. They did drugs with the older kids just to get into the groups. And nobody seems to look down on it. 
"One guy I pusted was a straight-A student on the basketball team who sold me Hawaiian (pot). The prin­cipal was surprised at the people I got-they're not all lowlifes." 
Lopez made most of his buys on school grounds, bur only 14 of the 21 people he arrested were stu­dents. His biggest purchase was two ounces of PCP from the 46-year-old father ofa girl at school. 
In a similar case, Bravo -actually Joe Zepeda, 22 going on I 7 -got to the father of a girl who marketed cocaine for her parent. 
Each day after class, the two policemen would tell their super­iors whom they talked with and log what they bought. Taylor says that documentation is a key reason for the program's 95 percent convic­tion rate. 
"Most often, officers made more than one purchase from the same person. It's all documented and we 

have evidence," he said. Of the 303 
arrests last fall, 192 were repeat 
dealers. 
No one was arrested until the 10 
weeks were up. Then the "students" 
helped lead other police in a one­
shot roundup. 
Lopez expressed few doubts at 
arresting acquaintances. 
"You try to refrain from making friends because you know you have to bust ·em," he said. "It plays with your mind a little bit, but you just have to look at it that it's your job." 
Taylor conceded that emotions "periodically become a problem. An officer will develop some friendships, then realize he or she has to do what he was hired to do." 
The program withstood a legal challenge in 1975, when a Los An­geles Superior Court judge ruled against a suit by the American Civil Liberties Union. Taylor m t aintains entrapment is not an issue because "we're just providing sellers with an opportunity to sell." 
Still, ACLU legal director Fred Ok­rand insists, "Our position is it's a fundamental violation of academic freedom and students' right to privacy." 
Only the principal knows an of­ficer is at school, but not his or her identity. 
Lopez said the hardest part of his assignment was buying drugs but never taking them. When asked to parties, football games or other situations where using drugs would be hard to avoid, he told other stu­dents he had to work. 
"It gets hard leading two different lives," he conceded. "You can never act like a 17-year-old, especially with girls. They always seem to catch on right away." 
Statepolice begin to remove a woman·sitting inside a paper bag symbolizing a nuclear cooling tower during a demonstration in Point Pleasant to protest the construction ofa waterpumping sta­tion on the Delaware RitJer. Some ofthe waterfrom the pumping station would be used to cool the Philadelphia Electric Co. nuclear plant now under construction. ( AP Photo) 
CATCH THE IRISH on 


WStiD 

fiM 64 

Saturday January 15 
Live from Milwaukee 



All the play-by-play with Bill Lanesey and Steve Cassi 
at the city's 55 high schools. Users are not targeted. 
Each fall and spring, undercover officers register at I 0 high schools selected on a rotating basis. In blue jeans and sweatshirts, with no badges, guns or back-up officers to help, they spend 10 weeks pretend­ing to have few other ambitions than scoring dope. 
"The program provides a negative thing -'don't sell on campus be' cause there might be a narc around' -but it's about the only negative thing (teens) see," says Capt. Robert Taylor of the department's Juvenile Division. "Movies, rock stars, sometimes their parents -every­thing else encourages drug use." 
Based on student-officers' reports, Taylor estimates as many as 50 to 60 percent of the city's high school seniors use drugs at least once a week. 
Taylor concedes his figures are not scientific. "but I don't know anyone better qualified to make an estimate." 
Student-narcotic agents spend a 
f! SPRING BREAK -~ 


MAZATLAN, MEXICO 
March 11-18, 1983 
FROM CHICAGO $425.00 
PRICE INCLUDES:
* 
Roundtrip air transportation via Mexicana and American from Chicago

* 
Seven nights accommodations at one of the following: Playa Mazatlan, Costa 

* 
de Oro, Oceano Palace, el Pescador

* 
Round trip Airport/Hotel Transfers 

* * 
* 
10 pet. Hotel Tax-Tour Escort Mexican Departure Tax 



NOTE: Pnces are based on quad occupancy rates tor smgle, double. tnple or con­do unrts avarlable 'iln request 
DEPOSIT: $50 00 per person deposrt due by JANUARY 28. 1982 
Rooms wrll be asrgned by Frrst Source Travel unless deposrts are submrtted together 
Attn. Mary Riedle 

tlf!4 source
FQqMQRE 
Box 1602 
100 North Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana 46634 


INFO CALL: 

•Travel 


AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS for the ND Student Player's Spring Musical 







@4an ofLa Manch~ 
Sat Jan 15 
Sun Jan 16 2:00pm Washington Hall 

The Observer Friday,January 14, 1983-page 6 
Soviet satillite 
Officials claim little chance of harm 
Reagan proposal 


Commerce president replies to idea 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The new week what kind of response he was when Reagan t1rst broached the chairman of the U.S. Chamber of getting to his idea. idea, that the hiring program was Commerce brushed aside yesterday "!cannot say that I have suddenly one begun by the Rev. Leon Sullivan, President Reagan's appeal for each received, well, it has not been long founder of a job training program business to hire one unemployed enough to receive mail -that I have called Opportunities Industrializa­worker, saying, "It is probably a received a flood," he replied. "I have tion Center in Philadelphia. good idea, but nothing more than a had comments made to me by "It's been a tremendous success 
: 
good idea." people who approved of that. And (in Philadelphia), and it's now
d 
"I guess," said Robert T. some of them from businessmen moving from city to city," Meese Thompson, "the president made the who have said that it has caused said at the time. "While I don't know proposal in good faith." But he dis­them to think, and that they are that it would wipe out unemploy­missed any thought that his board going to give that some thought." ment, it certainly would make a real would endorse such a program for Presidential counselor Edwin dent and would provide a lot ofjobs, the chamber's 250,000 member Meese III had said in December, and most companies could do that." t1rms. 
"This gives the press something to chortle about," Thompson said of 
• • • Taxes

the Reagan appeal. His remarks 
came in a get-acquainted session 
with reporters. 
Another strong opponent of

continuedfrom page I
During a Dec. 23 press briet1ng at 

energy taxes is House Speaker the White House, Reagan was asked Windfall prot1ts refers -td · the Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D-Mass. 
what he planned to do about the 
excess profits that would result from O'Neill and other New England law­post-Depression record 10.8 per­
decontroL Such a tax was imposed makers are loath to support taxes cent unemployment, which has left 
on oil when prices were that add to the cost of heating fuels, some I 2 million Americans out of 
decontrolled several years ago. on which the region is heavily de­work. 
Severance refers to taxes imposed as pendent. However, congressional He suggested that the business 
gas is extracted from the ground. tax researchers have noted that a tax community could contribute 
Some officials said they doubted the law could be written in a way to mightily if only each t1rm would hire president would ever support a 
impose an oil levy on gasoline and one unemployed person. windfall prot1ts tax on natural gas, exempt heating oil. "I know that there are some but others refused to rule it out as an The congressional tax experts busineses that, themselves, are faced 
option. have estimated that an oil import fee with troubles and cannot do this," 
Reagan is known to favor the of 115 a barrel, which translates into Reagan said. "But there must be elimination of all government price 12 cents per gallon of gasoline, others that could probably take even controls from natural gas, but it is would raise about S10 billion a year. 
more than one." 
widely believed he would never get The annual revenue increase would Reagan was asked at his nationally Congress to go along without a total S21 billion if the fee were to broadcast news conference last 
windfall profits tax. cover domestic oil supplies as welL 
.....................................................................................................................,
! ~ Ihe ObserYCI II DELIVERY DRI,TERS NEEDED I 
~ ~ 

I STARTIMMEDIA'fELY !I ~-3HOURS0l'~WEEKDAYS I! pAID POSITION I 
I CALLMARKAT 239-7471 I 
~................................................................................................................................J 





·--------------------------·Men's Hair Styling at its finest 1
I 1 'The Knights ofthe Castle' 1 
1
I For the total look on a stylted Hair Cut: I

I -rftp,~eeJtS

HairCut Shampoo 1 I Blow Dry & Condition 1 
I 
Hrs. Tue, wed. sat 8:30-5:}0 Reg. $15.oo ti4e II 
Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30 I Closed Mon Now $8· 50 with coupon I 272-0312
I _ Hair Cut Only Now $6·00 v11ith coupon I
277 1619 

1154533 Terrace Lane Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. I (St. Rd. 23) I 
. • We are only minutes from campus 
I Across from Martm s 


1.-----------coUPON•----------..I 

WASHl"i(iTON (AP) -A top Pentagon otlkial said today "there is a very small chance" that hazan.lous nuclear fuel aboard a tumhling Soviet spy satellite "would survivt: intact to the surface" of the Earth. 
Dr. Richard Wagner, special assis­tant to Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger on nuclear matters, said the "much more likely" prospect is that the nuclear fuel will, in effect, burn up in the atmosphere, as hap­pened t1ve years ago when a similar Soviet satellite broke apart and showered fragments on an area in northern Canada. 
Wagner. who said he took part in the I 978 search for the satellitt· tkhn.,, told a hril'ling that tht: only nuclear material th.tt fdl to t:arth was ....,malkr than !lakes of pt:pper." 
This material dispersnl and there was "lillie or no hazard" from the few small pieces he descrihed as "somewhat radioactive." 
Under questioning, Wagner said that it would be "life-threatening" at a distance of about 200 yards if the nuclear fuel, enriched uranium, c.:tme down to earth intact without shielding. 
But, he stressed, he considers this "extremely unlikely." 
Wagner said the United States has given the Soviet Union a detailed list of questions to determine, among other things. whether thnt· han· 

hn:n any changes in the con~truc­
tion of the satellite and ih reactor 
that would alter the degree ofhazard 
from pieces raining down on Earth. 

It is too early yet to expect replies, Wagner said. 
l-Ie gave his opinion that "there is a ver'y small chance that it will dis· tribute its debris in a populated area." 
He described as "unpredictable" the time and place where the remains of the satellite will reach earth. He held to a prediction made previously by the Defense Depart­ment that this will occur probably in the last days of the month. 

The Observer Friday, January 14, 1983 -page 7 

New ACS report 
Lung cancer to continue rise 
\:EW 'I ORK ( .-\P) -While death forms of cancer for which it make~ anticipated fewer deaths than in rates for mo!'t major cancer!> level off annual forecasts are expected to 1982. For .21 other types, the projec­or decline. lung cancer is running result in more deaths this year than tions remained the same as for 198.2. 
"spectacularlv counter to trend" last. and will kill 11 -.ooo Americans this The only other cancers with sig­Information used to compile the year. 6,000 more than last year. the nificant increases in the number of latest booklet comes from the Na­American Cancer Societv reported tional Cancer Institute's gathering yesterdav. expectt>d deaths are cancer of the data program called SEER, standing 
In its projections for 19l-l3, the large intestine, expected to rise by for Surveillance. Epidemiology and society said lung cancer's "relentless I,000 deaths to 49,600. and prostate End Reults. rise" would produce an estimated cancer, expected to rise by 800 The society estimated that I:'>S.OOO new cases. deaths to 2:\300. 855,000 Americans would learn this 
Cigarette smoking causes more Projected death rate increases for year that they have cancer. not than --; percent of all lung cancer other cancers ranged from "small to 
counting 400,000 cases of superfi­
deaths. the report said, 83 percent negligible," according to a fact sheet 
cial skin cancer which are "easy to 
among men and -i3 percent among accompanying the society's updated 
detect and treat," the report said. 
women. While the societv noted the reference booklet "Cancer Facts and 
About -i40,000 people will die of 

number of smokers is declining, it Figures." 
cancer. 9,000 more than last year. 
said government statistics show Breast cancer, the leading cause of 
But unlike the 1960s and '70s,

smokers are smoking more heavily. cancer death in women. was ex­
when only one in every three 
Only 9 percent of all lung cancer pected to result in 3 7, 500 deaths in 
survived five years or more after 
patients live five years or more after 1983, 200 more than in 198.2. 
diagnosis, the society reported that 
the disease is discovered and For two forms of cancer -non­
the prospect now is that three 
diagnosed, the society said. Hodgkin's lymphoma and invasive 
patients in every eight will survive 
The society said only Iq of the 3 7 cancer of the cervix -the society five years or more. An estimated 320,000 of this year's cancer patients are expected to survive that long, the report said.
Treatment for hemophilia 
Progress has been made in curing 14 cancers that a few decades ago had poor prognoses. "Today they 
are being cured in many cases, predominantly because of chemot­
BOSTON (AP)-Doctors should Iy discovered disorder concentrated herapy advances," the report said. consider eliminating the most com­primarily among homosexual men. An "outstanding example of mon and convenient treatment for AIDS causes an apparently irre­progress·· is shown in Hodgkin's the bleeding disease hemophilia be­versible breakdown of the body's disease, a lymph gland cancer cause two new studies link it with a ability to fight disease. This allows predominant in children, the society mysterious breakdown of the body's the development of strange il­said. 
ability to fight illness, researchers lnesses, such as rare forms ofcancer Better use of new and improved say. and pneumonia. X-ray therapy plus a combination of 

linked to new disease 
junior Brian Burt samples some ofthe many deiights that were 

Because their blood does not clot The studies said the link, if con­four cancer drugs "has resulted in 
available at last night's Fondue Night in the Dining Halls. (Photo

properly, people with hemophilia firmed by more studies, may provide remarkably improved survivaJ.," the 
by Melinda Hopkins)

risk prolonged internal bleeding, a dilemma for the nation's 15.000 booklet said. 
which can occur spontaneously or hemophiliacs. A form of Factor VIII after an accident. \lost of them take seems safe. but must be kept frozen doses ofa freeze-dried blood protein in special refrigerators. 
US-USSR 
their bodies lack, a substance called So far, eight cases of AIDS have Factor VIII. been confirmed among hemop­However. studies published today hiliacs, and five of the victims have 



UN offers facilities for summit

show that some people who use this died. The national Centers for 
form of Factor VIII have an im­Di t sease Control say several other UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The to blend various peace plans already Afghanistan, Southeast Asia, South­balance in their immune systems. It possible cases are being inves­
Cnited Nations would be happy to on the table. West Africa and Cyprus as beingis similar to that seen in victims of 
tigated. provide the necessary "shelter" for a Perez de Cuellar said he planned among the most pressing.acquired immune deficiency The studies were published in the U.S.-Soviet summit, Secretary­to discuss with Reagan or with Referring to his proposal for a svndrome. or AIDS. a deadlv. recent-:-.lew England Journal of Medicine. Secretary of State George P. Shultz
General Javier Perez de Cuellar said high-level Security Council meeting, on the eve of his meeting with Presi­his proposal for a meeting of the 1 5-Perez de Cuellar spoke of "the' nation Security Council "at the hig­
dent Reagan today. necessity of achieving some im-Perez de Cuellar said yesterday 
hest possible level" to, among other


Prisoner slashes arms, 
that he "would be quite ready to of­things, give impetus to the provement in the international at­fer facilities" if Reagan raised the groundswell of public support for mosphere which would prepared question of a summit during their disarmament. the ground for further discussions 
White House session. The U.N. chief said an introduc­on the main international The secretary-general told The tory meeting between Reagan and problems." Associated Press in an interview Soviet Communist Party leader Yuri 

starts fire in jail cell 
ROCHESTER, Incl. (AP) -An Police and firefighters said they 
Wednesday that the United Nations V. Andropov "would help at least to Both Reagan and Andropov haveinmate cut his arms with a dis­did not believe Ritchie was trying to raised the possibility of a summit
also would be "the ideal forum" for create a better atmosphere for the meeting, provided it s wellposable razor blade and then started commit suicide. They said Ritchie broadened Arab-Israeli talks, with solution of so many international prepared. 
a tire in his Fulton County Jail cell had plugged several ventilation 
his staff possibly acting as a catalyst problems." He cited the Middle East, William E. Ritchie, 33, of Akron, personal belongings to a safe place Ind., was treated at the scene for in the cell block prior to the fire. smoke inhalation and cuts after the 8 
yesterday, authorities report. holes in the cell but had moved his 
a.m. incident, said Sheriff Rich Ritchie has been in jail since his ;\1cLochlin. Aug. 23 arrest on charges of at­
Balloon

Jailer Paul Atchley was serving tempted rape, battery, burglary and breakfast yesterday when he found criminal trespass, McLochlin said. Ritchie in the smoke-filled cell with Ritchie is the second inmate to his face to a hole in the steel wall. injure himself at the Fulton County 

Bouquets

Atchley chopped open the cell Jail this week. Early Tuesday morn­door lock, which Ritchie had ing, Richard C. Rutledge, .21, ofRural 
FOR All OCCASSIONS

plugged. to get into the cell, police Rochester, jabbed himself with a said. radio antenna. 
rcan't sleep at night?
I 
f 


make JJinstead! 

The Observer 
needs layout people. No experience necessary. Late night job. Paid position if you're responsible. Leave your name and phone number at The Observer office on Jrd floor LaFortune. 


THE BLUE JAY'S Nt=ST 

UNiV[RS!n' ~c~ fER, MISH. 


l77-6TI6 

1 
J 



Editorials
r • Friday, January 14, 1983-page 8 
----·--·--···· ·-·------------------­
---·-----·-"-· -~-------------------------­

What's a lackawana? 
l 
i! 
' 
:' 
L 
! 
The most famous thing to be associated with Lackawana is Philadelphia quarterback Ron Jaworski. Ifyou take a look at the way the Eagles played this season, though, he really isn't all that memorable. Another thing that one might equate with Lackawana are certain manhole covers that one might discover on this campus. The manhole covers are going to be collector's items soon because no more of them will be produced in Lackawana. 
. -­

Randy Fahs 
Friday Analysis 

Lackawana was the home of a major Beth­lehem Steel plant for over seventy years. On December 27, 1982, the corporate heads of the faltering steel company gave more than 7,000 workers the worst Christmas present that they could have dreamed of: the news of the plant's closing. The repercussions of the closing will mean the loss of an additional 5,000 jobs in industries which depend on Bethlehem Steel. Lackawana is more than the industrial community at the southern end of Buffalo, New York; it is an example of what is happening in hundreds of cities across the United States. Its scenario is one that finds a municipality and its residents hard pressed because of the closing ofa major manufactur­ing facility. 
Bethlehem Steel occupied most of the city of Lackawana's choicest waterfront lands and it paid S6 million in property taxes, almost half of the city's yearly operating budget. The plant was the city's industrial mainstay and it employed 20,000 people at its peak during the 1960s. Soon, all that will remain of the once thriving industry will be cold blast furnaces and the empty shell of a massive in­dustrial complex. It will be a deserted and broken down memorial to a golden age passed. 
Lackawana is similar to many other towns in that the loss of its steel plant is being blamed on high taxes, high labor costs, and cheaper prices of foreign imports. The fingers are being pointed in many directions by the cor­porate heads of Bethlehem Steel, but if they want to find the true scapegoat, all they have to do is look in the mirror. 
Government is being blamed because of high taxes. It is true that S6 milliort in property taxes (and similar sums in other cities with major plants) does seem to be a large sum ofmoney to pay out in one year. Bur when you consider the fact that Bethlehem lost more than $400 million in the last quarter alone, the property taxes are simply a drop in the bucket. 
Labor unions are being blamed for high labor costs. The average steel worker does make a pretty fair wage. This wage is higher than the steel workers in other nations, but in recent years foreign wages have crept steadily upward. The difference is not enough to ac­count for the fact that they can make steel abroad and ship it across the ocean at a lower price than that ofdomestic producers. 
The eftect of foreign competition is being cited as the main cause of the decline of domestic steel production (as well as the decline of many other American-based in­dustries). Many foreign companies receive subsidies and other aids directly from their governments, bur U.S. companies fail to men­tion their own tax and business incentives from the government. 
The main difference between foreign and domestic steel manufacturers is production efficiency. West Germany and Japan are the leaders in this area. American steelmakers are quick to point out that we built their plants after World War II so they are newer and more efficient than ours. They are newer and more efficient than domestic plants, but ifthese two nations were making steel with these original factories, they would still be using machines and methods which are well over thirty years old. The fact is that they are right up to date because ofthe continued reinvestment ofcor­porate profits to maximize production ef­ficiency. 
American steel plants, like pethlehem in Lackawana, are using machines and methods, for the most part, which arc about fifty years old. Indeed, parts of Bethlehem's Lackawana facility are nearly seventy years old. This state of affairs exists because the corporate heads bled off the profits from their plants for the better part of this century. The stockholders and the managers profited while we all paid the bill because many of these profits were taxed at a lower rate to encourage reinvest­ment. This never occurred and that is why American stcelmakers made money fur years and suddenly found themselves with plants so far out ofdate that they lost billions ofdollars and a large share of the marketplace. 
This whole explanation brings me back to my original question: What's a Lackawana? A Lackawana is a victim of many years of cor­porate greed and conscienceless business practices. Profits were maximized in the long run. but now the whole thing has come to a grinding halt. Don't worry about the cor­porate heads. They've made lots ofmoney and they'll go into other managerial positions else­where. The problem is what to do with the unemployed steelworkers in Lackawana and other cities across the nation. Maybe we should ask how we can help a Lackawana and prevent a repeat ofits plight in the future' 

1983: TV news boom 
There can be no doubt any longer. 1983 
will be "The Year of the News." Everywhere 
television viewers tune in the new year, they 
will be treated to more news. 
The news will be flashy, it will be in-depth, it will be on early and stay on late. The news will be everywhere from the networks to 
cable to (gasp!) ESPN. 



Skip Desjardin 
On the Media 
The Entertainment and Sports Program­ming Network just announced that they will soon unveil a 90-minute business news program that will air twice every week-day morning. 
Economist William Wolman, a former deputy editor at Bushwss Week, will join editors from Forbes and Newsweek in bring­ing early-risers a show called "Business Times." ESPN executives say the new programming will generate higher advertising revenue for the network, which has lost money every year since its inception. 
"Although we're losing money, I fully ex­pect us to break even in 1984," says ESPNos 
, senior vice-president, Roger Werner. "We're certain this will generate additional advertis­ing revenue." 
So much for "the total sports network." 
At both CBS and NBC, there are plans for new "news magazine" programs. After dismal failures with shows like "Weekend," "Prime Time Saturday/Sunday," and "NBC Magazine," the network will try again. This time, Uoyd Dobyns will get the assignment, with a program tentatively called "Monitor." 

It was no surprise when NBC officials said they'd stick with the new show even if it got terrible ratings -we've all heard that before. But it did come as somewhat ofa shock when Dobyns complained rather loudly that his show would not go head-to-head with power­ful "60 Minutes." It will be aired on Saturday nights instead. 
Dobyns was the driving force behind the success of "NBC News Overnight." He is a talented writer whose stint with "Weekend" convinced the network that he can succeed where Tom Snyder, David Brinkley, and Jack Perkins have already failed. I think they're right this time. If track record is any indica­tion, "Monitor" will be, at the very least, refreshing. 
Over at CBS, oftkials have apparently decided what to do with some of their spare talent. Bill Moyers and Charles Kuralt will team up in a prime-time show of their own. Actually, there will be two shows, shown back-to-back. Moyers will reportedly resur­rect his popular "Journal," which won high praise at PBS, and Kuralt will expand his "On the Road" segments. 
And there was word out of New York that another local boy has made good. We all know 
-that sports announcers like NBC's Don Criqui and CBS's Tim Ryan got their start at our own WSND. The stations most famous alumnus is unquestionably Phil Donahue. But add anoth­er name to the list. NBC News' Boston-based correspondent, and a former WSND station manger, Lee McCarthy, has been promoted to national correspondent. He'll be, in the words of a network press release, covering "news developments throughout the United States." 
So welcome to 1983, the year in which the news gets bigger and, hopefully, better. 

P.O. Box Q 

Uniuersity Village tenant challenges notice 
DearEditor: 
The following is an exerpr from a Decem­ber 13 notice posted by Mr. and Mrs. John Burke, University Village managers. I feel compelled to voice my opinion against these mandates which Father Heppen would impose on the Villagers. 
I. Several complaints have been made to the administrative offices of the University about the uncleanliness of the hallways in our buildings. 
2. 
It is the responsibility of the tenants, not our maintenance team, to keep the halls looking neat. 

3. 
We thank you for your cooperation in keeping the halls cleared and now ask that each of you try to make a regular habit of cleaning the hall outside your own door, at the very least, and make arrangements with your neighbors to alternate looking after the entire corridor and stairwell. 

4. 
If there has been little or no improve­ment in the appearance of the halls by mid­January, we may have to assign tenants to hall-cleaning duties on an alternate basis. 


·Please help us avoid taking such action! 
5. 
Mitch and Bob have been told by Father Heppen as well as their own bosses in Build­ing Services not to clean the halls unless there is absolutely nothing else for them to do at any given time, and as most of you know, they have quite enough to fill their schedules now making repairs, improving the appearance of the grounds and soon they'll be plowing snow. 

6. 
The heat is now on in the corridors. Therefore, we ask you to keep all newspapers, Penny Savers, etc., away from large heating units just inside the front doors under the bulletin boards and to keep the back doors closed at all times. 


N.B., the University does not provide janitorial services for the University Villages because they are trying to keep the rent af­fordable. If it becomes necessary to hire someone to clean the halls, a substantial rent increase will most likely follow. This word of caution comes to us via Fr. Heppen. ­
It is only with this most recent posting that hall maintenance is placed in the hands of the tenants. In past information booklets 
-~ 
Ihe~==== 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Tbe Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of eitlter institution. The news is reported as ac­
,curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinionson campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239-5303 
on the University Village, it was stated that the University cleaned the corridors and that the tenants kept them"clear" in accord­ance with fire regulations and for ease of cleaning by the maintenance crew. Their notice makes it seem as if we contracted to clean hallways -as if this policy has always been in effect. It has not. We did not sign a lease agreement upon occupancy stating any of these terms. 
I realize that the Village maintenance crew is very busy. But why then make a put­ting green and prepare surrounding barren land for a soccer field if the Village proper cannot be maintained as it was originally planned. The above are strictly luxuries in comparison to maintenance of the cor­ridors. 
Rules should never be promulgated ifthey cannot be enforced. When I was manager, I observed that many Villagers did not main­tain their living quarters. Do you really ex­pect them to keep the halls cleaned when there is a constant battle to keep them clear? Most tenants will refuse to clean the halls. I, for one, will clean and scrub my area, as I have for the past two years, but I will not • 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive NewsEditor ..............David Dziedzic SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe ·sportsEditor....................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Features Editor ..................... Joseph Musumeci Photo Editor ........... , ....................... Rachel Blount 
maintain common areas and regularly clean other's messes with no compensation. (And low rent is no compensation) 
Father Heppen can threaten; a low tactic. The University's only concern is rental income, not the tenants themselves. Why is the Village falling apart? In the past five years, nominal funds have been put into this place. Father Heppen expects the Villagers to maintain the halls. As our stairs crumble and no replacements are provided, he ex­pects us to clean them? Forget it! Last year he candidly suggested carpeting the halls ­painting (hem even! It seems his priorities have changed. I guess they need the money to pay for athletic buses pounded by unruly students. 
I am angry because ofthe notice. I think it very imprudent. I could write more, but it wouldn't matter. And I don't want to waste my time. I feel sorry for-the Burkes because they must face the repercussions. I thank God that I am no longer Village Manager. 
M. Natalie Halpi11 former Village Manager 


Department Managers 
BusinessManager .............................Tony Aiello Contra/let·.............................................Eric Schulz AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Production Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3, 1966 






~SH0 WC~~~sE~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiFridayiiiii,Januiiiiiary
14iiiii,198iiiii3piiiiiiijage9 

A one-shot deal 
S
he had telephoned, asking to meet me, and I had no way oftelling ifshe was disappointed. She had liked something I had written that made me, even as a stran­ger, seem very real to her, she said. Now we were having lunch at McBell's on Sixth Avenue. With the dif­ference in our ages, I could easily have been her father. All the men she talked about in a loving way sounded like father figures. I was willing to talk to her like a father, ifthat was what she wanted. I could tease her as a father teases; I could flirt as a father flirts with his daughter. The wisest way ofplaying the father was to act like a fifty-seven year old being his age. Otherwise, I could appear to be auditioning for the role ofsilver­haired daddy. She wouldn't find much real about me as the silver-haired daddy-o. 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
letters ton lonely god 

"Hungry for some lunch, I hope?" On the phone she had told me she was often depressed. Iwondered ifit af­fected her appetite. 
"Oh, yes," she answered quickly. Her face looked old­er, and her hair had more gray than l would have expected in a thirty-one year old woman. The face con­firmed the story that her life was full ofpain. 
After ordering cheeseburgers, neither ofus spoke for an awkward moment or two. I felt that she was waiting for me to fulfill some expectation ofhers. 
"You're a teacher?" I said. 
She nodded. "I teach kindergarten in a private school." 
"You have a seven year old son?" 
She nodded again. "His name is Peter," she said. Her husband. who had kft her, was three years younger. She still hadn't gotten over his decision to 
leave. She didn't understand the separation, the divorce, his re-marriage. 
"You mentioned that you keep losing people?" 
"My friends keep dying," she said in hurt tones. She named six people close to her who had died in recent months by accidents or suicide. "It's really spooky the way my friends leave me. I feel guilty, as though I were the cause, though I can't see how I'm to blame. I'm afraid to get close to people." 
"You mentioned being afraid ofyour own death wish," I said. 
She had been trying to die since she was nine, she said. She told me about the times and the ways. "The dead are better off than the living. It's better to be with God in heaven." 
"I would be afraid of God's anger," 1replied. 
We talked about God's forgiveness, with her using 
simplistic logic to convince me God wouldn't mind her 
death. "We're not allowed to give life back," I said. "I 
would dread seeing the disappointment in His eyes. 1 
can't imagine it, but I'd be afraid to find out." 
She accepted my opinion as though I had won an argument. Maybe she's tired ofshocking me, I thought. "You told me you have a counsellor, who is close to you," I said. "Do you see him often?" 
She described David, a middle-aged Lutheran pastor, who, with his wife, had befriended her. David sounded like another father-tlgure, patient and generous with his time. 
"David and Irene would like to meet you," she said "Could you come to supper? They would like to invite you to supper." 
It sounded to me like her own idea. "Ifthey invite me, I'll try to come." ''I'm inviting you now," she said. "I know them well enough. My friends are dying to meet you." "You should talk with them about a night," I said. "I would enjoy meeting David and Irene." 
Our two hour talk was full ofdeath. Her grandfather, who had left her a millionaire, killed himselfwith a shot­gun. A man with whom she was planning a second mar­riage had died in a plane crash. She had been responsible as a child for her young cousin's death in an explosion. 
"What happens now?" I wondered, as I paid the check. Being real meant being as faithful to her as David. Being real meant always having time to help, any day or night. It meant accepting her as an immediate depend­ent. Disappionting her would always be a risk. Her needs could be far greater than the strength I had to of­fer. 
It was too soon to offer her the support of my friendship. She was still a stranger. I wasn't sure what part she wanted me to play in the soap opera she had described as her life. For now, I had to treat her as the survivor ofa hundred tragedies, protecting her from the malignant starts that had shone on her birth. It was pos­sible she was playing games with me, whether she knew it or not. 
"I'll call you about supper at David's house," she said, 
as I hugged her goodbye at the subway. She hugged be 
back as though I still seemed real to her. Her face looked 
full ofpleasure as though I had not disappointed her as 
father-figure or friend. 
The next day she phoned. "Supper doesn't seem pos­
sible. My friends and I will come to see you on Friday. 
We'll let you know the time." 
They never came. I'm still waiting to hear from her. 
The other shoe is waiting to be dropped in this little drama. I keep listening for it to fall. I liked her very much. Maybe, feeling some reservations on my part, she didn't like me. Perhaps she knew, as I knew, I could never be another David. I should be relieved not to get involved in dark events happening to a troubled young woman, but I'd like to know l didn't hurt her. Not knowing hurts my self-image as a tlgure who likes to play father. How much ofa father can you be in a one­shot deal? People, if they get you involved in the'r problems, owe you a better chance than a one-~••0t deal. 

The VERDICT's in 
~e most refreshing thing about 
.1 Sidney Lumet'sThe Verdict is the conscious aim of the production to make its hero, Frank Galvin, a man, not the two-dimensional superhero that seems to be wowing audiences lately. The tllm tells the story ofa tragically reduced lawyer who has turned to frequenting funeral par­lours in order to drum up business for himself. A retired lawyer pal 
Dennis Chalifour 
movie review 

throws a sure~ fire case his way in which a woman entering the hospi­
tal for a routine delivery falls into a coma, becominga human vegetable. The result is a search for justice within the justice system, a system which seems to reward only the un­ethical and destroy those in the right. 
One might think that this whole "what's wrong with the system" angle has already been done to death. In a way this is a correct as­sumption. The plotline is quite familiar and from square one the audience is able to do some guessing on how everything will work out. This film, however, succeeds in a frame outside ofthe narrative frenzy. Lumet and star, Paul New­man, are characterizing justice in this movie by bringing the theme down from the mountain and presenting the whole thing through the fresh eyes ofa common man looking for a break. 
Much ofthe satisfaction stems from the competent hands ofdirec­tor Sidney Lumet. Bouncing back from the dreadfully flawed depths of last season'sDeathtrap, Lumet has returned to the pace we are most familiar with. The Verdict becomes the perfect centerpiece for the common-man theme through New­man's chracterization of Frank Gal­vin. Working with noted cinematographer, Andrzej Bartkowiak, Lumet shrouds the fal­len Galvin in the shadows which at­
tempt to imprison him in his doom. The lofty baroque architecture that has become associated with cour­
thouses also becomes a representa­
tion ofa ;ustce system gone awry. 
Form has entrapped the entire 
profession. 
When it comes to this particular struggle, it is the handiwork of Paul Newman which shines forth (in a strangely ironic, unassuming way) to make this movie a_detlnite must­see. Newman will knock your eyes out with just the fine-honed con­tinuity he brings to the character. 
The themes necessitate that Galvin be an extremely tough character for any actor to portray. He is only average in legal expertise and in terms ofpersonal ethics, he is as flawed as any other man. Needless to say, he's no Butch Cassidy. He's a hodgepodge ofall the human qualities and flaws that make up the folks who have taken up the legal (and medical) profession. 
The only vroblem I had with the film was screenwriter David Marner's refusal to give the Galvin character one moment of courtroom glory. I kept waiting for the big summation on the need for justice to be taken out of the baroque profesSionalism of the legal system and placed back into the hands of the commonfolks. Mamet hints at a desire to put this speech in his character's mouth but such at­tempts end up only as five or six line arguments that emerge from Gal­vin's lips whenever his blood runs high. Even the common man should be given a moment ofglory. 
One last note to anyone who has an inkling ofand an appreciation for the art of motion picture acting ­don't miss Newman's performance. It could easily be the best of his career and hopefully, a sign ofthe maturing performer we may well see get better and better. 
,.t 1t~~ t ~rrer i.-·r;... 

~~~~·· 
.. 
~ Wt?t?~t?llcl~• 
O
ne more theology to go ...Okay, theology, page 22 ... Here it is. Right after sociology .. .I need a two-or three-hundred level course. And ...they're all closed. Rats ...Theology departmental office, 56/349 ...What's a 56? ...Oh, O'Shaughnessy ...What am I 
, going to do if I can't get a class? It's my only university requirement left. I might not graduate! Oh, no!!! 
The cries ofa registering senior domer during the first week oj spring '83 semester. 
The time has come for 8 1/2 by 11 inch computer sheets to proliferate and find meaning in the little midwestern bastion of 

-,
academia known as the University ofNotre Dame and its better half, with half-size add-drop forms, Saint Mary's College. Officially, registration was Tuesday, January 11, 1983. Unofficially, today is "Should I keep Pre-Columbian Art or should I drop it for Conversa­tional Arabic?" day. Ofcourse, add and drop period goes on un­til ...Oh. I have to drop Microbiology before a certain day if I want to add something in its place. 
Funny. I didn't know that. 
More worries. 
Medical journals have devoted much research and print to the study ofanxiety, tension, and stress. They recommend that various methods ofreliefbe investigated and a few selected according to the individual's schedule, physical condition, and financial situation. If I'm worried, and that is detlnitely a form ofanxiety, tension, and stress, then I better follow the doctors' orders. 
That's what weekends are for. 
And here to make its 1983 debut is Weekend. Strict attention should be paid to the more creative ideas listed. 
•THEATRE 
Okay, all ofyou closet thespians. Now is your chance to make your 
: 
dreams come true. The Student Players will be having auditions 
tomorrow and Sunday at 2 p.m. in Washington Hall for Man ofLa Mancha. Take a chance and see your "impossible dream" come to 
life. 
•ART 
Prints from Poland and a variety ofartworks from 26 other countries make up the international art exhibit on display in the Gos­hen College Art Gallery now through jan. 23. Nine prints produced by Anurzej Pietsch, dean of the department ofgraphics at the Academy ofFine Arts, Krakow, Poland, and his students come from a larger collection brought together while professor ofart Abner 
Hershberger was in Poland in the springof 1981. Other pieces in the display will be textiles, jewelry, pottery, masks, watercolors, oil paintings, and wood sculpture from Africa Central America, Asia, the Middle East, Caribbean countries, and Eastern Europe. The gallery is located in the basement of the Good Library. Hours are 8 a.m. to 5 
p.m. Monday through Saturday; 1 to 5 p.m. Sunday; and until 10 p.m. on Tuesday. A public reception will be held in the gallery Sunday from 2 to 4 p.m. 
•MUSIC 
Reverand Charles Corso will be giving a voice recital in the An­nenberg Auditorium Sunday at 2 p.m. Corso, a baritone, is pursuing his Masters in Music, Performance at Indiana University at Bloomington. He presently teaches in the Program ofLiberal Studies at Notre Dame. 
•CHAUATAUQUA 
Chautauqua, or the LaFortune Ballroom as so many of us remem­ber it, will be busy tonight and tomorrow night. Tonight, Howard, Alumni, Pangborn, Badin, Fisher, Lyons and Lemans (pant, pant!) halls are sponsoring a"Last Chance to Dance" mixer, complete with D.). and refreshments. Admission is the usual one dollar, and for that price, anyone can afford to "trip the light fantastic." Tomorrow night, the Ballroom will bounce to the sounds of the jazz/fusion bandjuggular. This performance should give new meaning to the phrase "follow the bouncing ball," for the band includes a real honest-to-goodness juggler. Admission is one dollar. 
•MISCELLANEOUS 
Ifyou quickly glance around the campus, you will discover that all ofthe !;>rick, paint and various wall decor is still visible. This, of course, means that there aren't any posters, which in turn means that 

I 
not too much is going on. Times like these dictate that one use one's I 
i 
ingenuity. On a pint-sized campus like this, that can be difficult. I l have pur together a short list ofactivities (some more creative than 1 others) from which the desperate or not so desperate weekender can choose. ~ 
Since it opened, I am sure everyone has been saying to themselves J that I'll go when I have a chance. Well, the Snite Museum ofArt is still glued to the side ofour beloved O'Shag and doesn't appear to be 
l
going anywhere. The beginning ofthe semester looks like the per­fect occasion to view the various permanent and traveling exhibits. Because Mother Nature has decided to postpone winter, the 

t 
sculpture garden is approachable. (No avalanches to avoid.) 
As we all know, the Fieldhouse will be torn down in a matter of weeks. This yellow brick building has seen much ofNotre Dame ath­letic history made. For the past few years, it has been the home of perhaps much of the future ofartistic history at Notre Dame. Before it becomes victim to the wrecking ball, wander through the studios 
anc' the Isis Gallery. It may be your last chance.
. 
Friday,)anuary 14, 1983-page 10

ISports Brie s 
J Bv !be 1Jhsen·er .md Tbe Assuuatetl Press I NFL fiX 
The Notre Dame Boxing Club would like ro announce that practice for the 19H3 Bengal Bouts has started. Practice is from ~:jO p.m. to '5:~0 p.m. \1onday through Friday. Anyone who is interested is welcome. No prior experience is re­quired. -The Obsen•er 
The Saint Mary's intramural hoops league 

. starts onjanuary 31. Team rosters and an emry fee of S 1 are due by 5 
p.m. on Monday, january 1...,_ The league is open to all Saint Mary's students, staff. faculty, and administrators. -Tbe Obserz•er 
All students are invitedto participate in an eight­

week Winter Agility and Quickness Program starting this Monday. 
This rigorous workout will include quickness and agility drills. along 
with stretching exercises. Workouts will be held on Mondays. 
Thursdays. and Fridays from 4-6 during the eight-week session. If 
you plan on participating, please attend the first workout. Monday, 
january I-: at 3:45 in the ACC Pit. -The Observer 
-· 
The NVA office has announced deadlines for entries for some spring semester sports. January 19 is the deadline for both men's and women's volleyball. The deadline for doubles racquetball and doubles handball is january 20. The office also made some more announcements. There will be a tennis clinic on January 16,18,and 20 at 8:30-10:30 p.m. featuring Scott Ford. For more information call 239-6100. Cross-country ski rentals are available again this year. Call 239-6100 for more details. Finally, aerob_ic exercises will be held on Mondays and Wednesdays at 4: I 0 in the ACC beginning on january 
I 7. -The Observer 
The Irish fencers will wind up their Eastern trip this weekend as they face Penn State in University Park, Pa. this afternoon and travel to Philadelphia to battle Penn and Rutgers at The Palestra. -The Obsen•er 
SaintMary's swimmersshuttle to the Rock tomor­row to swim against the Irish women. The meet kicks off the second semester for both the :'>/D and SMC squads, coached by Dennis Stark and Scott Trees, respectively. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's track team will be in action in West Lafayette. Ind. and Chicago at the Purdue Invitational and the Chicago Goodwill Games as the Irish athletes begin their indoor season. -The Observer 
Mary Decker Tabb, the best woman's distance run­ner in American history, was named winner ofThe Associated Press' Female Athlete of the Year Award for 1982 yesterday. 
The 24-year-old Tabb, the first wornan track and field athlete to win the honor since Chi Cheng in 1970, received 29 votes in the annual balloting by sports writers and broadcasters. 
Tennis player Martina Navratilova finished second with 21 votes and golfer joAnne Carner was third with 9. The 1981 winner, tennis player Tracy Austin, failed to receive a vote this time. 
Gamblers tell of big payoffs 

:'IIEW YORK ( AP) -A public television documentary quotes a gambler as saying that he was in­volved in t1xing a dozen :'llational Football League ·games between 196H and 1970 in which gamblers paid off a coach, a quarterback and the defensive captain of at IcaM one unidcntit1ed team. The documentary also suggests that Carroll Rosenbloom, owner of the Los Angeles Hams, who drowned in 1979, was murdered. Screened here Thursday for the press, it will be shown next Monday as the opening offering in PBS' "Frontline" series.  :'~~either the players, the coach. nor the ·ream or teams involved in the alleged fixes are named. And the producers said they had paid an un­disclosed sum to the family ofjohn Piazza, the imprisoned gambler who made the allegations. NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle is shown in the tilm responding to specific allegations in other areas, al­though he is not questioned about Piazza's charges. Mike Kirk, senior producer on the show, said Rozelle told moderator jessica Savitch off the air that he had never heard of Piazza.  Don Weiss. the league's executive director, said yesterday that the league would have no further response until officials had an op­portunity to see the tilm. The gambler. interviewed in prison. said he was involved in fixing four NFL games each season in 196R 1969 and 1970. He said the players involved were paid a flat fee· of S300,000 plus 10 percent of what the gamblers made on the fixed game. He said the biggest payoff was S800,000 and said he actually saw players present when money changed hands.  
• • Hoops•  
continuedfrom page 16 24 turnovers and 23 fouls. There were also many missed shots inside. A good effort could have made the game even more lopsided than it was. "Poor decision-making" is the reason that DiStanislao gave for the lackluster play. "When a person you're guarding gets the ball," she explained, "you have to make a split-second deci­sion. lt should be to attack the ball. But we were hanging back and allowing a much slower person to go past us. "Offensively, poor choices were made. They were throwing into pas­sing lanes that weren't open and pas­sing into crowds. "I think that the team underrated Augustana. They knew how to score and thev were mostly juniors and seniors. i·d rather play a bad Division I team than a good Division I II team (like Augustana). They know how to win." DiStanislao had been concerned that Augustana might take advantage of her team's habit ofgetting off to a slow start, so she made some changes in the usual starting lineup in hopes that the team would come out gunning. She started freshman Lynn Ebben at guard for the first time and gave Keys and Bates their second starts at forward. The strategy seemed to work as Notre Dame moved out to a 3-:'-13 lead late in the first halfand went in­to the locker room with a 43-27 lead. Ebben was especially effective, scoring I 0 points and pulling down five rebounds in the half. DiStanislao was cautious, however, about saying whether she would keep the new lineup for the next game against Alabama. "The jury's out until we see the  game films," she said. The Irish raise their sights a couple ofnotches Sunday when they face the Crimson Tide in an after­noon game at the ACC. The contest, set for 2, is the first of three Notre Dame women's games to be in­cluded in the men's season ticket package offered to the general public. The others are defending na­tional champion Louisiana Tech (Feb. 11 ) and Indiana (Mar. 9 ). Alabama is 7-6 will begin its Mid­west swing tonight against DePaul. "They're a very 'new' team," says DiStanislao. "(Alabama coach Ken) Weeks has rebuilt his team with junior college transfers and fresh­men." Only two playecs returned Yesterday's Result Notre Dame women 87, Augustana women 66 Augustana (66) M FG-A FT-A R F p Eschoo 26 4-11 1·3 6 4 9 Garnson 30 1-5 3-5 2 1 5 Rogiers 26 3-7 0-0 5 4 6 Crosby 40 6-13 9-12 5 2 21 Tracey 34 6-17 5-5 2 2 17 Smltch 14 1-2 0-1 3 3 2 Nelson 2 1-3 0-0 0 0 2 W1esbrook 11 0-1 0-0 3 1 0 Matson 17 1-3 2-2 0 1 4 200 23-62 20-27 26 18 66 FG Pet 371 FT Pet 741 Team rebounds -4 Turnovers -10. Ass1sts -6 (Garnson 2. Crosby 2). Techn1cals-None Notre Dame (87) M FG-A FT-A R F p Keys ,?3 9-14 1-1 8 2 19 Bates 33 11-19 2-4 10 1 24 Scheuth 28 6-12 4-4 15 3 16 Hensley 21 0-3 0-0 0 4 0 Ebben 21 6-9 0-0 5 2 12 Matvey 7 0-2 0-0 0 1 0 Dougherty 18 4-8 2-4 0 1 10 Mullins 9 1-3 1-1 3 0 3 Kaiser 22 1-1 1-2 3 3 3 Basford 12 0-0 0-0 1 3 0 Klauke 6 0-1 0·0 2 2 0 200 38-72 11-16 47 22 87 FG Pet. 528 FT Pet. -688 Team rebounds -7 Turnovers -24 Ass1sts -17 (Ka1ser 4, Dougherty 3, Scheuth 3) Techn1­cals-None. Halftime -Notre Dame 43, Augustana 29  from last year's I:-I I Alabama squad, and Weeks brought in three juco players and four freshmen to give the team an entirely new look. "They're a group of very good ath­letes, and he has them doing a great number of things." Alabama's strength may be Notre Dame's Achilles' Heel -the Tide likes to play the type offast-break of­fense and pressure defense game that has given DiStanislao's team trouble so far this season. "They have been known to resort to a slow-down offense, however," warns DiStanislao, "so we don't real­ly know what to expect from them. "We're improving consistently in our ability to control the tempo ofa ballgame. It'll be important not to let Alabama establish the pace." One ofWeeks' transfers, 5-11 for­ward Cassandra Crumpton. leads the Crimson Tide offense. scoring 19 points a game. Teaming up with Crumpton at forward is returnee Terri Hilliard. The 5-l 0 all­Southeastern Conference post player, who led Alabama in eight statistical categories last season, adds IS points an outing. "(Hilliard) runs the floor well, as well as any post player I've seen." says W'eeks. "Along with Crumpton. they give us a very explosive frontcourt." Lining up against Schueth will be 6-2 freshman Carol Smith. who has pulled down 10 rebounds a game as well as added 14 points. juco transfer Dottie Kelso is the off-guard, and '5-4 senior Lisa Leonard and 5-7 freshman Betty Bryam have split time at the point guard position. . Alabama has been hurt by poor shooting -their percentage from the field is .426 -and Notre Dame may be able to capitalize if it can forct: the Tide to shoot from outside.  

I 
~lassifieds 
lr Furn 4-bdrm house lor 83-84 school yr 
I

NOTICES FOR SALE
Excelcond.closetocampus Reasonable
II.___FO_R_R_EN_T_____. 

rent Call291-5687 1."-::;...____________l 
l ; UGLY DUCKLING RENT-A-CAR, Fnday noon 111 Monday noon $29 95 Includes CASSETTES CASSETTES TDK SA­
ITYP1NG. Jackie Boggs, 584-8793 150 free mtles. Sales tax and msurance 90 $2 70/each NO LIMIT CALL 289­
4 room stngle, maJOr utilities patd. Newly
extra Phone Rob for reservattons 259-7640
remodeled $160mo 288-6721
1 
8459 

\ LOST/FOUND 
3 Bdr 2 story. gas heat. & garage 260.00 share 4-bedroom home w1th 2 other Law 
2 Graduate/Law students wanted to 2811-6721 _ 

I

Students. Completely furnished Can I PLEASE have my new black Calv1n 
TICKETS
$75/month 288-3109 

Kle1n down jacket back?--rm freezmg!! It 
was last seen at South Dming Hall last 
Room in 4 1/2 bath home in wooded area. IHL-el_p_ll_n-ee_d_so_m_e_B_B_a_llT-1-x-H-el-p-IN_o_ti.Just Thurs (12/9). Please call x2858 if you 
WANTED
Two miles from Notre Dame Swtmmmg

have any Knowledge of its whereabouts pool, rec roam w1th flfeplace Sate w1th '------------.J. any Tix Help'l need 3 GA·s for the Feb 5 
plenty of off street park1ng. Washer and So Carolina game Tom.288-8004 FOUND: One calculator 1n the language 
dryer Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 after 12 HELP'I NEED A RIDE TO PA FORlab. See Mr Abilli in Room 2500-Shag. 

noon BREAK CAN LEAVE WED AFTER 4 00 
CALL MEG 7628 Unfurnished 2 br apt near NO Utilities 
PERSONALS

FOUND: David Crockett High Ring pd. less gas, ph 272-0261 Need nde to MAR­
Class of 79. Call Matt 1 244. 
QUETTE.MILWAUKEE.th•s weekend for 
The house that Knute Rockne bUih needs NO btlall Suppon the team and g1ve my URBAN PLUNGERS · URBAN PLUNGE found: small cross m front of ACC on a tenant. 87.50/mo. ask for Bob, Matt, or fn'>Ods and I a ride to lh1s 1 8 FOLLOW-UP:BUNDAY. JAUARY 16 AT reg1stra11on dav. CaiD2748 after 10. M11<e at 289-3962. 
state!JOEx3471 7:15PM IN LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
The Observer will accept class1fieds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m However. class1fieds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be received by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to 1nsert1on. All class1f1eds must be prepaid. e1ther m person or through the mail. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS: If you have not 
· turned in your $45 deposit for the SKI TRIP, you must do so by Sat . Jan 15 Youcandropltoffanyllmeat418St Eds or 233 Walsh There IS still lim1ted space available itInterested. call8046 or 8089 
BOOKS FOR SALE FOR CLASSES GOVT 340, GOVT 343. PHILO 222. FINANCE 231 BOOKS NEEDED FOR. ECON 225. GOVT 406, GOVT 410, AL 300 STATS, CALL CHRIS AT 8573 OR 
· 3510 1\NYTIME 
Attention: ALL 1HOSE INTERESTED IN AN TOSTAL Interviews for Executive Committee posittons are starttng now! See Margaret, the Student Govern­ment/Umon secretary. second floor Lafortune for an appomtment, before Wed .. Jan 19 Any quest1ons--call Jay Re1dy at 239-7668 
BOY, ISN'T IT GREAT TO BE HOMEIII 
Dear Buck.o. /Happy. Happy. Happy Bonhday! /Love always. your Ul SIS (and favonte pain) Laura 
Cahfornia. what a great place for a vaca· tton! 
Rmg 1n the new semester tonight wtth an· other blowout at Sodom and Gomorreh, NOs No 1 pany spot 1406 South Bend Avenue Be ttteret 
For two hours we kept you a watttng, For two hours we kep! you a wattmg How very sorry we are We boughl a piZza and a 6 of Mick. llhil lost the keys to the car Wed like to make 11 uP somehow. How angry you must be, At Corby s we II watch Mary 
T. win, And your margantas wtll be free Mark&John 
Buy Observer classitieds at the Sa1nt Marys off1ce. weekdays 12:30 to 3:00 
seniors for 1983--84 volunt•r work with holy cross aasosclatea In --•1 ST ullllcltlea. epplleellon due february 8th. cell mary ann roamer, 7949. 
START OFF YOUR WEEKEND RIGHT WITH THE EARLY MORNING SHOW Ill FRIDAY r.tORNINGS FROM 7AM to 9AM ON W8MD AM641tlt!tl 

The Observer Friday,January 14, 1983-page 11 
ND grad 
Huffman gets start for Packers 
Bullock, Cross lead Purdue over Ohio St. 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -more in a row for a safe I !-point lead 
Sophomore forward Jim Bullock with four minutes to go. scored a career-high 18 points and Ohio State, falling to 1-1 in the Big ailing center Russell Cross added I 7 Ten and 9-3 overall, came no closer 
last night as Purdue, reeling off 13 than five points in the closing straight points against foul-plagued minutes. The Buckeyes were led oy Ohio State in the second half, beat Troy Taylor with 20 points, includ­the 20th-ranked Buckeyes 64-57 in a ing four three-point goals. Big Ten Conference basketball 
Purdue.'s only first-halflead was at game. 
6-4 after two straight baskets by Bill­The Boilermakers, now 2-1 in the 
lock. Larry Huggins, who had Ohio conference and 11-2 for the season, 
State's first two baskets from two­took control when Ohio State's big 
point range, then hit a three-pointer men got into foul trouble midway 
to put the Buckeyes back on top 7-6 through the final period. The 
with II:30 before halftime. Buckeyes, who led by I 0 poits in the 
Tony Campbell then followed first half, still led by five when 6-10 
with a basket and two free thro~s, freshman Keith Wesson picked up 
and the Bukeyes outscored Purdi.Ie his fourth foul. 
7-2 over the next two minutes for an Steve Reid, who finished with 15 18-Slead. points, then started the Purdue rally with a three-point goal and Bullock Cross, who missed two days :of hit two free throws to tie the game. practice earlier in the week becau:se Greg Eifert put Purdue ahead to stay, of back spasms and did not start the 40-38, with two free throws as Wes­game, scored nine of Purdue's next son fouled out with 8:47 to go. I I points, and Greg Eifert added ~n­Eifert added two more foul shots, other basket to pull the Boiler­Bullock scored on a lob pass from makers within one point with under Reid and Reid scored again for a 46-two minutes left in the half · 38 Purdue lead. Taylor then scored for Ohio State, Ron Stokes scored on a three­·and a breakaway layup by joe Con­point play for Ohio State, but 6-11 check in the final seconds have the Buckeye center Granville Waiters Buckeyes a 26-21 lead at the inter­fouled out and Purdue scored six mission. 
• • • Warriors 

continuedfrompage 16 "big games." its opponents into making offensive Tomorrow, the Irish get still an­mistakes and running the fast break other chance to spring a needed up­for the score. set, one that may help propel them "To beat Marquette we have to to an NCAA Tournament bid. continue playing with intensity," says Irish coach Digger Phelps. "We 
or draw, I'll give it my best ~hot." 
Huffman's biggest weakness is one-on-one pass blocking. hut there are ways to help him. The Packers could keep a back or the tight end in to block on pass plays, or have the center help block White. They may have quarterback Lynn Dickey take a shorter drop than usual, and they could try to keep White off-balance with running plays at his side. 
"He (Huffman) has a chance to 
prove he's a football player. That's 
how people are made," said Ernie 
McMillan, Green Bay offensive line 
coach. 
"Most teams have to make adjust­ments when they play those people," he said. "What you want to do is stay out of situations where they are teeing offthe balL You want to move the ball on first down." 

Bill Meyers, McMillan's assistant, staid Huffman "is a competitor and I .think he's looking forward to the op­portunity." 
'I'm sure Randy White will give 
him all he can handle,'' he said. "Tim 
will at least meet the challenge. He 
will not back down or go bonkers." 
"People enjoy talking about matchups, and one of the reasons they receive so much attention is that we stress here that we have to give Lynn protection. But our of­fensive line has done an excdlent job the last couple of weeks," Head Coach Bart Starr said. 
The Packers yesterday listed 
placekicker Jan Stenerud as prob­
able. Stenerud has been bothered by 
back spasms the last few weeks. 

Front line scores 
Hoosiers outshoot Rlini, 69-55 

<d~EE:-.: BAY. \X' h. (AI') -Gn:en Ba,·s Tim !Iuffman. a natin: ofDallas and a secoml-yetr guard out of :\lotre Dame. spoke with gallows humor as he considered his matchup against Randy White of the Dallas Cowboys. 
"At least they won't have to send the remains very far -15 minutes from the stadium," Huffman said. 
Huffman will make the third start of his National Football League career Sunday. His assignment is to contain White, one of the finest defensive tackles in the NFL, in an NFC playoff semifinal game at Ar­lington, Tex. 
"Randy White is stronger, faster, quicker and more experienced, which doesn't look good for me. Does it?" said Huffman, who is to start in place of injured Derrel Gofourth. although Gofourth may he available as a rc~crve. 
!Iuffman. howcver. merely was poking fun at himself. lie and the rest of the Packers' offensive linemen didn't permit one quarter­back sack in Green Bay's 41-16 rout ofSt. Louis last week. 
The 6-foot-5, 265-pound Huffman is confident that the Packers· qf­fensive line will do well again, even though Dallas' defensive line ofends Harvey Martin and "Too Tall" Jones and tackles John Dutton and White is considered one of the best in foot­ball. Dutton may not play because of a leg injury. 
"I believe inwardly that I can qo the job, but we won't know until Sunday," Huffman said. 
"I can't afford to get uptight about facing someone of his (White's) caliber," he said. "I'm happy to be in­volved in a game like this. Win, lose 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP) -In­game with 20. diana's front line may have scored "We made some good moves to 60 of the Hoosiers' 69 points, but the basket in the second half," said guard Winston Morgan got a lot of Indiana Coach Bobby Knight. "But, the credit from leading scorer Randy our defense still has some cracks in Wittman. it." 
"He got me the ball, he got Ted Wittma·l and Kitchel each got two (Kitchel) the ball, and he got Uwe three-point field goals -Indiana's (Blab) the ball,'' said Wittman, who first of the year. Knight said he did scored 27 points to lead Indiana to a not think the three in the first half 69-55 victory over Illinois last night. had much impact on the game, but 

Morgan, making his first start of the last one -by Kitchel -gave the the season, got nine assists as the Hoosiers a 10-point lead midway fourth-ranked Hoosiers boosted through the second half. their record to 11-1. Wittman said "I thought that was the biggest Morgan's play was one of the key to three-point basket," said Knight. victory. "When we went from a five-point to · Another, said Wittman, was Il­a 10-point lead, that probably was linois mistakes in the second half. the key point of the ballgame." 
"We stole the ball, forced them to Illinois Coach Lou Henson said his make turnovers," said Wittman, who young team made too many got 17 points in the second half. "It mistakes. was our patience on offense and "They forced us into some big tur­knocking the ball loose on defense." novers near the end of the first half, 
Bhib got all 13 of his points in the but the key to the game was that we first half, and Kitchel finished the had bad shot selection. We have to 
have to take the ball to score against their pressure defense. We can't get involved in a running game with them. Ifwe can control the tempo of 
EXPONENTIAL, MY 
the game we can win. "This game will give us another chance to play a great team on the 
DEAR WATSON 

road in front ofa hostile crowd. The last time we were up there Doc 
If you have at least two years of graduate or under-
Rivers beat us on a bomb at the buzz­
graduate education ahead, and you keep getting clues
er -and we know Marquette will 
that your money is running short, then a two-year Air
be ready to play against us. They al­
Force ROTC scholarship may be the solution. 
ways are against Notre Dame. Rivers 
Currently we're seeking young men and women 
is a great talent at guard, and Mar­
who would like to serve their nation as Air Force Officers. 
quette always has great quickness 
Consequently, if you're majoring in a selected technical/ 
non-technical scientific, nursing, or pre-medical field, oryear in and year out. 
~'-· 
~~~ ~ 
411.. 
~ ~ 

can qualify for pilot, navigator, or missile training, then you
"They've got experience year 
may be eligible for a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship. The scholarship pays your tuition, lab fees, (plus incidental fees), 
with Schlundt, Marotta and Dwayne 
Johnson up front," Phelps continues. 
books, and $100 per month tax free. And even if you don't qualify for the two-year scholarship, you still receive the $100 a
"It's another big test for our younger 
month while enrolled in the Air Force ROTC two-year program.
players. This probably is Marquette's 
What do we ask in return? That you serve America at least four years as an Air Force officer. Your Air Force ROTC counselor 
biggest home game of the season, 
has the details and qualification requirements. Check it out. ir might even make your education finances seem elementary.
and our freshmen have to realize that and be 3ble to go in there and 
Contact Capt. Gomez, (219) 239-6635, 

play with aggressiveness and com­posure." 
about AFROTC at Notre Dame. 

Phelps admits that the Irish need 
35 years on campus!

to win a hig game. So far, Notre 

BOTC
Dame is 1-5. hut b 0-4 in so-called 
Gateway to a great way of life. 
take better shots." 
Not all of Indiana's points came from under the basket, however. The Hoosiers scored four three­point field goals. Wittman made two field goals from beyond the 19-foot perimeter while Kitchel had one in the first half and one in the second half. 
The Hoosiers, whose biggest first half lead was six points, broke open the game early in the second halfon Wittman's outside shooting. Indiana held a 44-35 lead with 16:54 to go. The Illini fought back to within three points, but Wittman and Kitchel resumed their shooting show, building the Hoosier ad­vantage to double figures for the rest ofthe game. 
Indiana shot 58 per cent from the floor for the game, compared with Illinois' 40 per cent field goal shoot~ ing. Wittman was 11 for I 7 from the floor and Kitchel was 8 for 14. 



The Observer Friday,January Jl4, 1983-page 12 

• SPECIAL OFFER • FOR EVERY 500 ML BOTTlE OF FRANGELICO YOU BUY AT 9.99, YOU GET ONE JIM BEAM BOURBON 1.75 LITER FOR 8.99. ,.~~M~!:~v, 
********************************************************************************** ********************************************************************************** 

HAMM'S 
or Hammes Light 
5 5C~E
South Bend Ave. Store Only 
2/12 OZ. 12 CAN PKGS. 


KINGS CELLAR 
............. 8.99 
VODKA  AND  GIN  
3.99  YOUR  7.99  
750 ML  CHOICE  1.75 LITER  
KAMCHATKA  '  

VODKA 1.75 LITER 
CALVERT 
GLENFIDDICK 
SCOTCH 1.75 LITER .......... 10.99 
WINDSOR 
CANADIAN 1.75 LITER ...... 10.99 
DMELUXE BLEND 1.75 LITER . 9.99 BOODLE'S . GIN 750 ML ..................... 8.99 
CANADIAN CLUB 750 ML ................•.. 6.99 

OLD MILWAUKEE 
REGULAR OR LIGHT 
ssg 
CASE OF 24 CANS 
WINE 

CHRISTIAN BROTHERS 
TABLE WINES1.5 LITER ........... 2.99 
CARLO ROSSI BIG 
DINNER WINES .....~ ~ 1•1 ~~-....•.• 4.99 
-IMPORTED­

SORIA VERMOUTH 750 ML . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.99 LA VIELLE FER ME 750 ML ........ 3.99 LIEBFRAUMILCH 750 ML .•••.•...• 2.99 
ZELLER SCHWARTZ KATZ750 ML •.....•................ 3.99 
CODORNIU150 ML ........... 5.99 REMY PANNIER 750 ML ... 4.99 
CINZANO 
ASTI SPUMANTE15o ML .. 6.99 HENKELL TROCK . EXTRA DRY 750 ML . . . . . . . . . . 7.99 

eoou LIGHlf 2.99 
6 PACK CANS 
STROH LIGHT 6.99 
CASE 24 CANS 
~s 10.99 
BEER AND ALE 24 12 OZ. BOTTLES 
• South Bend Ave. Store Only 
Special Export 24NR8.99 Michelob Light 24NR8~99 Fall City :!4cans 6.49 
Lone Star 6.99 
Strohs Grenades 
8·7oz bottle reg. 2.29 
1.99 
case 32·7oz.reg.8.99 7.59 _ .. 


~ WE WILL BEAT ALL ADVERTISED PRIICESI YOU MUST BRING IN THEIR AD· 

~-~-~--~------~----------­
.. 

The Observer Coaches agree 
Many athletes fail new test 
(AP) -Two football coaches 
maintained yesterday that up to a 
third of today's major college ath­
letes, mostly blacks, could not have 
met new NCAA standards requiring 
minimum scores on college 
entrance exams. 
And the testing organizaions said 
no more than half of black high 
school students who take the exams 
make the minimum score needed 
for them to be able to compete in 
sports their freshman year. 
The new regulations, which take effect in 1986, were approved by the NCAA convention in San Diego this week. They require that to be eligible to participate as freshmen, athletes must have a combined score of 700 on verbal and math Scholastic Aptitude Tests of 15 on the American College Testing Ex­amination. A perfect score is 1,600 on the SATs, and 36 on the ACT test. 
The rules also require that an incoming student have a C average in a core curriculum that includes three years of English, two of math, two ·of social sciences and two of natural sciences. Few coaches took exception to that. 
But Coach Lou Holtz of Arkansas and Coach Tom Osborne of 
.Nebraska both echoed coaches and administrators at black colleges ­that the new requirements are cui­turally biased and will affect blacks far more than whites. 
"I don't think there's a correlation between test scores and success in college. I think it's more important how many get out of college, not how they get in," said Holtz, who said somewhere between a quarter and a third of the athletes in the Southwest Conference would have been ineligible as freshm411 in the new rules. 
"I feel it's discriminatory," said Osborne. He said as many as a third ofthe athletes in the Big Eight would not have met the standards. 

NCAA delegates set benefit game for Aug. 
SAN DIEGO (AP)-The National Collegiate Athletic Association ap­proved Wednesday an annual pre­season college football game between two major teams to benefit the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame_ 
Delegates to the NCAA's annual convention also permitted Division I-A football teams to add a ninth full­time assistant coach, while eliminat­ing two part-time assistants. However, they turned down a proposal to add a third full-time bas­ketball assistant. 
The delegates also attempted to cut down on recruiting violations by prohibiting off-campus recruiting by alumni and boosters and they adoped stringent ethical conduct rules which could result in athletes being declared ineligible. plus punitive action against staff mem­bers who violate NCAA regulations. 
They passed ameasure requiring schools to include in coaches' con­tracts a provision that the coach's employent may be suspended or ter­minated if he violates NCAA regula­tions. 
The preseason football game, to be known as the Collegiate Kick-Off Classic, will be played at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. ­this year's date will either be Aug. 27 or Aug. 29 -guarantees each team a minimum of 5550,000. 
The New Jersey Sports & Exposi­
tion Authority, which operates the 
stadium, has guaranteed S 1.625 mil­
lion a year for at least three years. 
The money will be divided among 
the participating teams, the Hall of 
Fame, the American Football Coaches Association and the Nation-a! Association of Collegiate Direc­tors ofAthletics. The Hall ofFame at Kings Island, 0 hio, has a S3.5 million mortgage to pay off. 
The game would not count against the NCAA's 11-game regular­season limit -a proposal for a 12­game season was rejected Wednesday -and is strictly volun­tary. 
Representatives of the National Football Foundation sought to al­leviate fears of some postseason bowls by emphasizing that this would not be a bowl game or a na­tional championship game, although such matchups as Penn State and Southern Methodist-the 1-2 teams from 1982 -would not be out of the question. 
The teams will be chosen around March I and no team would be allowed to play in the game more than once in five years. In addition, over a seven-year period at least seven different conferences and two independents would be offered an appearance. No invited team has to particiate. 
There also would be no matchup of the previous year's bowl op­ponents, no pairing of a regular­season game to be played later that year and no match between the Big Ten and Pacific-1 0 Conferences, whose champions play in the Rose Bowl. 
The S 1.625 would be guaranteed regardless ofany television contract. Participation in the preseason game would not count as a TV appearance. 

I
~------------------------·I 
I I' 
I Attention I I Photographers I 
I I I I I I ;~Obseaer-=--openings for staff I I I 1 ~ alternate photographers. I I 
I I 
; 35 mm equipment ~ I 
I 1good ll ~ Wdarkroom I I I I skills a must. I I I I I I I I I
To apply, contact Rachel Blountat
I I I I
283-7959 or 239-5343 

I I 
·------------------------· 
"You might have two individuals with the same basic intelligence. If one had not been in a good school system, had not been in a home where there are books, where a cer­tain kind ofvocabulary is in use, that person will not do as well." 
Another football coach, Leon Burtnett of Purdue, said some of his players wouldn't have been eligible and estimated that a number of other Big Ten schools were in the same boat. 
Gary· Horton, director of player personnel at the University of Il­linois, said that of the 65 to 70 prospective recruits the school is courting "probably several" would have to be scratched from the list under the new guidelines. 
"The thing the SAT and the ACT tests won't tell you about is the kids' character. I think we often know better than the people who give the 
tests  how  well  the  kid  will  per­ 
form ...and  we  recruit according­ 
ly," Horton said.  

Other college coaches and administrators said the new guidelines would have little effect on their programs. 
Prentice Gautt, assistant commis­sioner and academic advisor to the Big Eight and the first black to play football at the University of Ok­lahoma, said: "I don't look at it as black-white. I think the chief ex­ecutive officers of many schools thought something had to be done. And they said the buck stops here." 
X-LARGE 17 in 
Cheese Pizza 



$6.79 $4.71 
extra ingredients 85' extra ingredients 62' 
THE NROTC COLLEGE PROGRAM. 
$2,000 EXPENSE MONEY AND A NAVY OFFICER COMMISSION. 
The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two years of expense money that's worth up to S2.000. plus the challenge of bPcoming a Navy Officer \\ith early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During your last two ,:.'ears in college the Navy pays for uniforms. NROTC textbooks and an allowance of SJOO a month for u;:-to 20 months. 
NROTC $15,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: 
The two-year NR_OTC S~holarship Program offers you a two-year college scholarship that s worth as much as 515.000 in tuition 
During college. the .'\avy pays tumon. cost o! textbooks. instructional fees. and an allowance of SlOO a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. Upon graduation and completion of requirements. you are commissioned a :\avy Officer. 
lfyouhaveaC+ GPAorbetter,call 
us now as scholarship opportunities have 
never been better. Ask for LCDR Norrbom 
or LCDR Horstmann at 239-7274 or 239-6442. 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. 
Friday,January 14, 1983-page 13 

The Steelers Super Bowl dream ended Sunday, and maintenance crews this week went about the task of replacing the artificial surface to get readyfor baseball and the Pirates. ( APPhoto) 
MEDIUM 14in 
Cheese Pizza 

. 

..-----~------~ --~-~­
The Observer Friday,January 14, 1983-page 14 
.• 

Fonner Oriole third baseman BrooksRobinson to baseball's Hall ofFame in Cooperstou•n, N. Y andfomzer Giantjuan Marichal were elected in-Wednesday. ( AP Photo) 

* CII~EIH!ll ~ 
monday night film series I 
·p~,rteen .moonant Mm~ Tr>a; span Amerrcar and wor.d lrlm hrstory Held •r :::onJunctron wrt'"l GOTH 140 (8asrcs ol Frlm Studrec.;1 and COTH 461 !Collage 2Um-Centurv Art Forrr:l ana sponsored oy the Department of Cammun,cat1on and T~eatre All showmgs a! the Annen berg Auditorium. The Snlte Museum of Art, Notre Dame ce~mpus at 7 00 p m runless otherw1se notedl. tndt\IIOual AOmiSSIOn.:> $2 00 Ser1es T1cket Any 25 111ms from three <>enes $30 OC Any 15 f1lms !rom thr11e ser<eS $22 DO 
January 17 
Cutter's Way ,,9e1 1 
l'w'ar. Passer USA color 109 mu1 Czech-born !~Jan Passer ;:Heeled thts rev•SIOI"liSI film nolf set tn decep­tively sunny Santa Barba•a Cnpplea V1e1nam vel Jonn Heard and h1s QIQOIO fnend Jetf 8r1dges tato;e uP 'he ro1es of detectives and avengers 1n a murder case One of the most pass,onate and <ntplligent Amencan f1lms or recenT years 
January 24 
Citizen Kane ,'9411 
Orson Welles USA BIW ~, 9 m1n The young Orson Welles d1rectec h1mse1f and a brillianT cast <nc1u01ng Agnes Mooreheao and Everett Sloan <n the tale ot The r1se and tall of a newspaper mogul W1th mus1c by Bernard Herrmanll and Cinematography by Greg Toland 
January 31 
Criss Cross ''9'9' Rooert S1odmak USA B;W. 87 m1n German em1gre Robert S1odmak d!rected thrs qwntessent1al film no1r tale of dupllc•ty and VIC!lmlzatlon w1th the young Burt Lanca::;ter ensnared by femme fatale Yvonne De Carlo W11h Dan Duryea 
February 7 
The Navigator (192'1 
Buster Keaton. Donald Cnsp. BtW 62 rn1n ThtS mven11ve comedy. d1rected by B'uster Kea:on and veteran com1c actor Donald Cnsp, has Keaton and hiS g1rlfnend as upper-class tw1tS cast adnlt on a Qlant ocean liner 
February 14' 
Enthusiasm !19311 
Dz1ga Vertov. USSR. BIW. 90 m1n Former Russ1an futuriSt Dz1ga Vertov mdde th1S. h!S hrst sound 111m. as both a documentary-collage at Sov1et•ndustry and det1nous demonstra­tion ol the formal OOSS1b1il11es of echhng and creattve use of sauna 
February 21 
The Crime of M. Lange(1935i 
Jean Renotr. France. BIW. 85 mm Jean Renolf was at the peak ot hiS powers 1n th1s popular front comedt­allegory set w1th1n a smgle apartment bulld•ng Jules Barry plays an unscruputou& publisher and Rene Lefevre the dreamy creator at pulp navel nero ··A,zona J1m .. 
February 28 
a..ncelot of the uke (1974) 
Robert Bresson. France. color. 85 mm Inarguably hiS last great t11m. chreclor Robert Bresson treats the Ar­lhunan legends and the declme of ch1va1ry in a style at once concrete and metaphys1ca1 .. A film to see and see agam .. Penelope G1lhatt. The New Yorker 

•I 
I ~ 

March; 

The Red Desert,' ~6'1 
Michelangelo Anlonran, Italy color 11& mm M1Chelange1o Anton10n1 d1retted Maruca V1111 m !hiS visually elegant near Y, plotless mystery of a dl!-.aooeared ct,1ld In C1nemascooe 
March 2' 
Vivre Sa Vie 11 962t 

Jean Luc Godard France BtW 82 mm In hiS fourth learure, Jean Luc Godard directed Anna Kanna as an en1gmat,cally strong yet v1CI1m1zed proSTI!ule Godard s most Brecht1an f1lrn 11 had an enormous 1nfluence on other filmmakers 
Marcn 28 

Innocence Unprotected ,196Bt 
Dusan Makaveyev Yugoslav1a. color 75 m1n Ousan {Montenegro) Makaveyev·s Witty medl!tWon on nattonnood and freedom the him 1s a three-rmg c1rcus .:>1 old newsreels contemporary mater1at and footage from. the f1rst C•oat1an talk1e lntroduc1ng Innocence Unworecred are two recent Amencan collage t1lms Mongo!o1d by Bruce Conner (Wtlh mus1c by Devol and Franklrlm by Frank Morfls 
Aorr/4 

Shock Corridor "9631 
Samuel Fuller USA. color & 8/W 101 mm Mavenck dlfector Samuel Fuller used Constance Powers and a 8 mov1e cast 1n th1s consistently frantiC and overheated pulp allegory of Amer1ca m/as an msane asylum "Fuller IS an authentiC Amencan pr1m1t1ve whose works have to be seen to be understood -Andrew Sams 
Aon/11 

The Atomic Cafe (19801 
Jayne Loader. Kev1n and P1erce Rafferty. USA. ector. 80 m1n • An htlanous and fnghtenmg look at Amer1ca's Cold War and the cult of the atom. The Atom1c Cafe IS one of the most enterta1nmg and dlsturb­mg oocumentanes m recent years D1rectors Jayne Loader and Kevm and P1erce Rafferty nave collected and JUXtaposed government and commerc1al footage 1nto an uomc. mordant and pass1onate polem1c 
Apn/25 
Mean Streets (19731 

Martlh Scorcese. USA. color. 112 mm Marlin Scorcese·s hrst feature casts Harvey Kel!el and Robert De N1ro 1n New York·s L1ttle Italy '"an exptos1ve m1xture of the Maha the Church aod repressed v•olence One ol the most 1mportant and semtnar hlms at the 1970s 
1\i(UO:[ ()!Vfl[ \.1\111\il 'twkf~ 
C()IWHIJNIICAilii()N
0 llrlfcAil~l[ 
Irish take Western, 
N. Central Illinois 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports lf'riter 
With today's Miuwest Classic weighing heavily on their minds, the Notre Dame wrestlers beat Western Illinois 3I-I I and North Central Il­linois 49-3 last night in the ACC pit. 
Throughout the night, the Irish wrestlers abstained from fluids in or­der to make an early morning weigh­in down in Indianapolis. 
At one point, Notre Dame coach 
BrotherJoseph Bruno, C.S.C., had to 
tell his team to focus its attention on 
the two meets going on and to forget 
about weight, as the effects of no 
fluids began to show. 
Co-captain Don Heintzelman led the Irish last night with two im­pressive second rounu pins. At the time of both pins, Heintzelman held large leads. 
Heintzelman remained one of the team's win leaders as he raised his season mark to IS-7. 
Senior Mark Fisher in turn lifted his season record to I9-5 by winning with a first round pin and by forfeit at 126. 
Sophomore Louis Carnesale won a heart-stopping H-7 battle against his W.I. opponent in a match that remained undecided until the tlnal seconds. Carnesale moved his season mark up to a lofty 19-H. 
Versatile freshman John Krug, replacing injureu co-captain .John Carnesale at I 77, continued to impress all, posting a pair of vic­tories. 
Krug, who hat..! been wrestling ear­lier at I90, whipped his North Central opponent fir~>t, -I6--l. Continuing to wrestle in his fierce style, Krug shut out his Western foe 
'7-0. 
:"'ow I S-9-I. Krug will continue to 
hold down the I~~ weight class for 
the Irish until Carnesale returns 
from a broken bone in his hand in 
two weeks. 
Last season's win leader Phil Baty 
lifted his season totals to I2-I-I with 
narrow -l-2 and S-:'> victories. 
Although rather disappointed with his team's start last night. Coach Bruno remained very pleased with his squad's ·performance in terms ofthe whole season. 
"You have to remember that our team is mostly composed of fresh­men and sophomores and that we're wrestling teams made-up of juniors and seniors," said Bruno. "I have to be impressed with the way that our young guys have come along, and at this point in the !>Cason would give them a grade ofA or Aon a scale ofA to F," 
Over the holidays the Irish gave Bruno plenty of reason to gloat. On January 3 the Notre Dame grapplers rolled over Carthage College SI-0 betore beating the University of Chicago handily Jan. S. 
Last Saturday at the Olivet Invita­tional, a number of Irish wrestlers placed highly. Fisher took first at 126 and Loui~ Carnesale second at I S8. In addition Eric Crown and Phil Baty's took thirds at I I8 and I6­respectively. 
The Notre Dame wrestlers now face two triangular meets at home beti>re heading out to California the first week of February for a quadran­gular and a tournament. 
But first, the Irish must now refocus their attention on this weekend's Midwest Classk in In­uianapolis. 
SMC roller-coaster hoping to reach top 
By DAVE IRWIN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's basketball team hopes its roller-coaster season is on the upswing as the Belles will play three games in the next five days before hosting a four-team tournev next weekenu. ­
The Belles haven't played since dropping a 63-61 decision to Michigan-Dearborn 'on December 13 to snap a two-game winning streak. The Christmas lay-off is Head Coach Mike Rouse's biggest worry. 
"They've been playing all along and not coming off a break. That's the only thing I am worried about," says Rouse of Southwestern Michi­gan College, the Belles' opponent tonight at the Angela Athletic Facility. Tip-off is scheduled for 7. 
The Belles will travel tomorrow _to Lake Forest College in suburban Chicago and head for Manchester College on Tuesday. 
"Winning one or two of those games would be a good way to get back into the swing of things," says 
Rouse. 
The Belles will have to do it with­out the services of Missy Van Ort, Saint Marv's leading rebounder and No. 2 scorer. Rouse hopes that Van Ort will be ready for Tuesday night's contest. Betsy Ebert will start in Van 
Ort's place. 
"It hurts our depth," explains Rouse. "We'll rotate Chip (Ayotte), Trish (Nolan) and Betsy (Ebert) and we ~hould he alright. 
"We've reallY het:n working on our hreak. But you need rehounu· 
ing.  It  really  hurt>  without  .\l!ssy  
being in there ..  
Ayottt'  ha'  hel'n  >lowl'd  by  a  

reoccurring kmT injury am.l that ha.~n't hdpeu the S\-IC depth picture. 
"Never knowing her sitution puts 
a strain on our uepth," says Rouse. 
Even with the injury to Van Ort. 
which Rouse feel!'> cost SMC the 
Dearborn game, the Belles still 
figure prominently in the recently­
releaseu NAIA statistics. 
Forward Elaine Suess ranks in the 
Top 20 nationally in inuividual 
scoring with an average close to I 9 
points a game. She also is fifth in free 
throw shooting, canning 83-percent 
of her shots. Despite coming off the 
bench, Theresa McQuinnis is among 
tht: top eight in field goal shooting, 
connecting on 64-percent of her at­
tempts. 
The Belles rank among the na­tion's leaders in scoring margin and points per game. With the aid oftwo 100-plus games, St. Mary's boasts a scoring average of over 80 while holding its opponents to just 55 points a game. 
Despite the accolades, the Belles up-and-down season has resulted in a 3-4 record to date, but Rouse thinks the Belles are on the right track. 
"I'm pleased with where we're at," says Rouse. "I judge on perfor­mance ratJ:ler than record. 
"You can be ...,_0 or 0-7 depenuing on who you play. Our worst defeat was 10 point~ against franklin and it was probabh-our he~t game." 
Rouse abo .mnounceu that Saint Mary·, wa~ invited to play in the :\a­tionJ.l CJ.tholic Ba>kethall Tourn­ment in Dubuque, Iowa next Year. The tournn· is a fhe-J.i\ affair run similarlY to the :-.liT. The champion­ship-game will be broaucast nation­ally by ESP:'\. 


-----~----~-------------~----------------~---­
Ihe~rver========================== 
~~4()l~~============================Fr=id=a=y=,J=an=u=an==.'=1=4,=1=9=8=3===p=ag=e==15 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
,~-----­
,, I 
i• 

,,. I "'· -'l 
' 


~
N 



Simon Jeb Cashin 


Fate Photius 


HEY, LETS ~o our f~AI MUSf B( ~lf"1 NOW. 

I 


ACROSS 1 Young oyster 5 German 
philosopher 9 Fleet 
elements 14 Hope (for) 15 To­
(precisely) 16 Of punish­
ment 17 Bitter drug 18 Wheel hub 19 Bandsman 
Shaw 20 N.Y.-Conn. 
waterway 23 Timeless 24 Atlanta 
sports arena 

The Daily Crossword 
© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 1/14/83 All RiQhts Reserved 25 Commercials 46 Otherwise 26 Singing 48 Harbor 

brothers 52 Amer.-Can. 28 Surpass waterway 31 Shinto 56 An Oscar 
temple 57 Kind of 
gateway year 34 QED word 58 -avis 35 Contraction 59 Coral 36 Virginia island 
waterway 60 Unclothed 40 Assist 61 Small case 41 Furniture 62 Drying 
designer cloth 42 Concerning 63 Mimic 43 Rogers or 64 Fender mark 
Acuff 44 Jewish DOWN month 1 Marshy 
45 Shingle depression letters for 2 Airman a dentist 3 In accord 
4 Against­(displeas· ing) 
5 Sunflower State 6 In any respect 7 Leningrad's river 8 Numerical suffix 
9 Muscular contrac­tions 
10 Egret 11 Possessing insight 
12 Distress
1114183 
13 Coaster 21 Gandhi's land 
22 Perform an action, old style 
26 Bellowing 27 Old title of respect 29 Baking 
chamber 30 Saucy 31 Autocrat 32 Buckeye 
State 33 Orange 34 Norse 
collection of poems 37 Consumer advocate 38 Detecting 
instrument 39 Stimulated 44 Equally 45 Farther 
down 47 Scoop 48 Frighten 49 Egg-shaped 50 TV fare, 
sometimes 51 Character­
istic 52 Sharp blow 53 Marshal 
Broz 54 Napoleon's exile isle 55 A tide 

•3:15 
p.m.-Workshop, "Aristotle: Moral Direc­tion tor Economic Alternatives," Prof. St<~phen T. Worland, 331 O'Shauhnessy 

•';:15 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla SheJ, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Women vs. Georgia Tech., ACC Arena 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, NO vs. Miami (Ohio), Fieldhouse 

•8 
p.m.-Lions Club Travelogue, "West of the Badlands: the Dakotas, Montana, and Wyoming," 0'Laughlin Auditorium 

•9:30 
p.m. -Dance, "Chance to Dance," LaFortune Ballroom, Sponsored by Chautauqua, S 1 

Saturday,Jan. 15 

•2 
p.m. -Swimming, NO Women vs. St. Mary's, Rockne Memorial 

•7:30 
p.m. -Hockey, NO vs. Miami, Fieldhouse Sunday,Jan. 16 

•1 
p.m. -4 p.m. -Opening Art Exhibition, Biblical Narratives in Old Master Prints, Snite Musuem ofArt 

•2 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Women vs. Alabama, ACC Arena 

•2 
p.m. -Voice Recital, by Rev. Charles Corso, C.S.C., Annenberg Auditorium 

•2:30 
p.m. -FUm, South Bend Audobon Society Wild Life Film Series, Carroll Hall 

•7 
p.m. -Urban Plunge Workshop, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Center for Eperiential Learniljlg 

•7:15 
p.m. -Urban Plunge Follow-up Meeting, Library Auditorium 


T.V. Tonight 
6p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  3-2-l Contact  
6:30p.m.  16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS News  
28  ABC's World News Tonight  
34  Over Easy  
7p.m.  16  M-A-S-H  
22  Laverne and Shirley  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  The MacNeiVLehrer Report  
7:30p.m.  16  All in the Family  
22  Family Feud  
28  Tic Tac Dough  
34  Straight Talk  
8p.m.  16  The Powers of Mathew Star  
22  Dukes of Hazzard  
28  Benson  
34  Washington Week in Review  
8:30p.m.  28  The New Odd Couple  
34  Wall Street Week  
9p.m.  16  Knight Rider  
22  Dallas  
28  ABC Friday Night Movie  
34  Business Perspective  
9:30p.m.  34  Golden Age ofTelevision  
10p.m.  16  Remington Steele  
22  Falcon Crest  
llp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Indiana Lawmakers  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  C.B.S. Late Movie  
28  ABC News Nightline  
:WoO p.m.  16  SCTV Comedy Network  


I Student Union Service Commission Sponsors I
----------------------· 
I The Book Exchange I 
I DROP OFFS: THUR JAN 13 I
I 2-spm 1
1SALE: FRI JAN 14 2-6pm 1 
2nd Floor La Fortune

1 1 
I Don't Miss the Bargains! I 
~--------------------~ 

~ior.Bar 
W~&clt 
~'lmtt ~btw3 '&took 
ujoy OUit s,ecla& T~kt 
open 9:30 -2:00 am 



--------~~---­
Friday,January 1.4, 1983-page 16

Sl!orts 
..•....--.~~~---------------------------------------------­
Notre Dame looking for first big victory 
By RICH O'CONNOR balanced scoring attack. Sports Writer Despite the balance, there are
""· 
times when the Marquette offense Tomorrow. a 7-5 Notre Dame bas­sputters. At these times the Warriors 
ketball team will travel to Mil­have been calling on a little instant waukee to take on Marquette. With offense in the person of Terry the Irish still in search of their first Reason. big win of the year, defeating the 11-Reason came off the bench to 2 Warriors will be no easy matter. score 32 points on 13-for-15 shoot­
Missing from last year's Marquette ing from the field in Tuesday's vic­team -a 70-62 winner in the ACC tory over Iona. To go along with his 
-are starters Dean Marquardt and scoring barrage (the sophomore's Michael Wilson, and subs Brian previous career best was 10 against Nyenhuis and Greg Shimon. But this Maine), Reason pulled down eight Warrior team could be even better rebounds in his 34 minutes of ac­than last year's 23-9 squad that split tion. two games in NCAA tournament Also seeing considerable action play. for sixth-year head coach Hank 
Leading the squad is all-America Raymonds squad is freshman Kerry 
guard Glenn "Doc" Rivers. The Trotter, a 6-6 forward averaging just junior co-captain is only the tenth over five points a game. Marquette player to break the 1,000-The Warriors have been success­point plateau in less than three years ful in using their exceptional quick­ofcompetition. ness to atone for their lack of height 
in the front court. A good transition

Rivers, averaging 14 points a game ACC. The Redskins, bowez•er, hal'e other ideas. Ac­team, Marquette looks ·to pressure
in his career, is the Warriors leader tion begins tonight at 7. Seejane Healey's preview in assists and steals. It was his jumper See WARRIORS, page 11 below. (Photo by Paul Cifarel/i) at the buzzer that enabled Mar­
quette to defeat Notre Dame 54-52 two years ago at the Milwaukee 
Not pretty but, 

Arena. Mandy Johnson holds down the 
Notre Dame women rout Augustana, 87-66
other Marquette guard spot. Averag­ 
ing over nine points and five assists a game, Johnson and his aggressive style of play complement Rivers' talents to give the Warriors an excel­lent backcourt tandem.  By MIKE SULLIVAN Sports Writer It was not one ofthe better perfor­ Trena Keys ( 19 points), and center Mary Beth Schueth ( 16 points). In all, five players scored in double figures for Notre Dame as it set a  tanislao after the game. The Irish front line continued its recent dominance of the boards by outrebounding Augustana by 24, 54­ nine-per-game. The six-tooter from Indianapolis has impressed many observers, especially her coach. "I don't know if there is anybody  
..  The frontline of Marquette returns two starters, Terrell Schlundt and Marc Marotta and last  mances of the year for the Notre Dame women's basketball team, but some excellent individual perfor­ season mark for team scoring. Bates was especially impressive as she set a career best with her 24  30. In the team's last-four games, Notre Dame has grabbed 58 more rebounds than its oppoAents-.  in the country who is better at rebounding than Mary Beth," said DiStanislao.  
year's super Johnson.  sub  Dwayne  "D)"  mances and superior depth allowed it to rout Augustana, 87-66, last night  points. It was the highest single­game point production ofthe season  Schueth once again led the team with 1 5 rebounds. She has now  The team's offensive rebounding edge more  burst and than com­ 
Johnson is the Warriors' leading scorer, averaging 1 5 points a game. The sophomore combines with Marotta ( 10 points per game) and Schlundt (nine points a game despite splitting time with freshman Vic Lazzaretti) to give Marquette a  in the ACC. The Irish, coming off a loss at Maryland Saturday which broke a nine-game winning streak, got back on the winning track on the strength of an offensive explosion by for­wards Carrie Bates ( 24 points) and  for any Notre Dame player. The sophomore tossed in 11 out of 19 shots and was 2-of-4 from the foul line. "Carrie Bates played her best game in a Notre Dame uniform tonight," said Irish coach Mary DiS­ grabbed an impressive 45 rebounds pensated for an otherwise uni­in the last three games and leads the mpressive performance, especially team with an average of better than See HOOPS, page 10 Irish open weekend  
Right NCAA message  series with Redskins  


ByJANE HEALEY be(:n the defensive coverage and the Sports Writer for,echeckingl

Athletes are students too 
"We've been a little weak there," "I hope that black athletes across the United States 
Practice and preparation are the explains Smith. "We're not sticking got this message," said Grambling University President main concerns ofCoach Lefty Smith close enough to our opponents and 
• Josephjohnson. "These institutions don't want you." as he gets the Notre Dame hockey have gotten ourselves in some un­
Craig Chvol
The institutions Johnson referred to are the NCAA team ready to face Miami of Ohio desirable situations. schools that voted to raise academic requirements for tonight in the north dome of the "We've been particularly working incoming student-athletes. The new minimums will re­ACC. The game will start at 7 pm. on improving our skills in those quire scoresofat least 700 on the SAT or I 5 on the ACT, The Redskins enter this weekend areas, but our injuries are really kill­as well as a high school core curriculum of math, series with a 9-10-1 record and ing us." English and social and physical sciences. the vast majority of student-athletes would still earn seventh place in the CCHA. Injuries continue to be a problem 
Johnson and leaders from several other predominant­their diplomas. Miami is an experienced team for the Irish this weekend. Defen­ly black schools across the country were outraged at Admitting athletes who cannot or simply refuse to comprised mostly of upperclas­semanJoe Bowie, out with a strained the long-overdue step by the NCAA. Not surprisingly, meet the NCAA minimums amounts to a concession smen. They play a conservative, knc!e won't suit up tonight and is their mud-sli"nging consisted largely of racial accusa­that the school has no concern whatever that its ath­basic game, setting up and waiting doubtful tomorrow. Sophmore Tim tions. Such a reaction byJohnson and others leads to an letes receive an education. From the very moment such cautiously for a break or a mistake by Reilly, also plagued by a battered ugly, yet inescapable conclusion -those doing the an athlete signs a letter ofintent, that institution's presi­their opponent. knc!e will not see any action. The screaming <ion't feel that many blacks are capable of dent, its director of admissions and its coach know full The strongest position in the bruised ribs offreshman Greg Hudas meeting the NCAA's new standards. well that the athlete has about as much of a chance to Redskin line-up is that ofgoaltender. makes the injury count complete at 
Penn State Athletic Director and Football Coach Joe leave with a degree as the 10-year-old kids on the Junior Alain Chevrier ranked sixth in three. Paterno politely touched on the subject when he playgrounds of Chicago's West Side have of reaching the nation among goalies until a 13-2 Three other players, Rob Ricci, responded to·the charges ofracism by saying, "I'm real­the NBA. defeat at Michigan Tech ballooned Tadd Tuomie, and Adam Parsons ly surprised, that so many black educators have gotten It is much easier to sympathize with an athlete who, his goals against average to a still low will not suit up because ofacademic up and sold their students down the river. I think you're through no fault ofhis own, simply can't obtain even the 3.0. problems. 
• underestimilti.ng their pride and competitiveness." lenient minimum scores set by the NCAA. And possibly, "We are going to have to com­Short these six players, the Irish 
It's true. Se'lteral cit ose readings ofthe new guidelines if such an athlete has made an honest and consistent pensate for the strong, conservative wm do battle on their home ice, astonishingly show that the standards are not limited effort to learn and improve during high school, an ex­game of Miami by using a dump-and­usually a comfort in bad times. just to incoming black student-athletes. So crying dis­ception could be made. But then again, any other high run type of strategy," commented !But home hasn't been a friendly crimination when none exists either in the language or school student who can't earn those scores and doesn't Smith. "'v'e have to concentrate and place this season for Notre Dame in the intent of the requirements is a tacit admission happen to be gifted enough to run a 4.4 40-yard dash or react closely to what is happening with only one win in eight games at that a large number ofblacks can't or simply won't meet score 30 points a game in basketball would more than while always being prepared for an~· the ACC. the standards. likely be left out in the cold by college admissions breaks." "There is a certain tenseness 
Mind you, the NCAA, in laying down the law, is hardly offices as well. In practice, Smith has be'-•1 focus­about playing at home," reasons closing the doors on all but potential Rhodes scholars. Certainly, many of the nation's inner-city school sys­ing on four areas he f..-.ds the Irish Smith. "There's a lot more pressure Many athletes who are able to attain what the NCAA tems are in shambles, but the new standards don't take have been weak tl-_,s season. First, playing in front ofyour own fans." now demands would still need tutoring, super-human effect until August 1986. So potential student-athletes, the Irish are no• ,aking advantage of These home fans, or the lack of effort and occasionally an act of God to get their their parents, coaches and teachers have plenty of op­their powe· play situations. They them -average attendance is only degrees. And that is what we're all here for, isn't it? portunity to clean up their acts where appropriate. have on!y scored on 19 percent of 1500 -is another concern for 
Less idealistically, we must conclude that all but a No, it's not the NCAA institutions that don't want the their chances. Smith. handful of schools -Notre Dame, North Carolina, black athletes, instead it's schools like Grambling that Second, Notre Dame's opponents "I think having a l::rge crowd Penn State and a couple ofothers -emphasize athletics don't want them. Sure, Grambling wants their scoring connect on 35 percent of their making a lot of noise would really 
.r.. and academics in that order. And, at a lot ofplaces, such averages, the people they put in the stands and the power play situations. Far too many help the team," says Smith . a perversion ofpriorities will never change. But at every money they put in its bank account. penalties leave the Irish shor­"Especially when they are having school in the country, academics should be at least a But I defy Joseph Johnson to tell me he wants those thanded and vulnerable too often. hard times and need the support close second to athletics, which would still insure that kids as students and as people. The last two problem areas have more now than at any other time." 
• 









