
-----------------------~----~----~~------~--~..~.-~-~.-----~--~--~--------------------------­

• • • Coed-page3 

VOL. XVII, NO. 133 the indept:ndent ~wdent new~paper st·n·ing notre dame and ~aint man··~ WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 1983 
Reagan endorses latest missile plan 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Reagan embraced a plan yesterday to build 100 MX missiles and put them in existing launch silos, promising it "will mean a safer, more secure America" and put pressure on Moscow to negotiate nuclear arms cuts. 
Even congressional crrtlcs conceded the proposal has a far bet­ter chance ofwinning approval than Reagan's first two attempts to deploy the MX. 
"Preserving the peace requires more than wishful thinking and vague good intentions," Reagan said. "Concrete, positive action is re­quired to free the world from the spectre of nuclear conflict." 
The plan, drafted by the Presi­dent's Commission on Straegic Forces, calls for putting the MX, armed with 10 nuclear warheads, in Minuteman missile silos near War· reo Air Force Base in Wyoming, and beginning work on a new, single· warhead missile to be ready for deployment in the early 1990s. 
Deploying the MX missile and developing the smaller, single· warhead weapon, sometimes dubbed "Midgetman" would cost 
s 19.9 billion over the next five 
years, according to commission es­
timates. That would be in addition to 
S4 billion already spent on MX 
research. 
"Make no mistake," said Reagan. 
"Unless we modernize our land­
based missile systems, the Soviet 
Union will have no real reason to 
negotiate meaningful reductions. If 
we fail to act, we cannot reasonably 

Both campuses await .An Tostal 
Heatwave to highlight Friday dance in Stepan 
ByPATSAIN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
An Tostal, the annual release of winter's pent-up energy, has arrived at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. As usual, South Bend's weather has been overly generous in giving students time to store energy for one of the biggest events on campus. 
An Tostal, roughly translated "spring festival," is a traditional irish celebration, with athletic contests, dan­cing, singing, and other contests. 
One of the main attractions this year is the Chance to Dance Friday night in Stepan Center. The dance features the band Heatwave, along with The Kinetics, a local New Wave band. Heatwave has had four songs in the Top Ten in the past five years, and records under the EMI label. 
The Beer Gardens.at Saint Mary's tomorrow will have two tents this year, one for drinking, the other for the band. The arrangement will allow all students to enter the Beer Gardens to listen to the band, but a 21 I.D. will be needed to enter the beer tent. 
Notre Dame's "Mr. Campus" contest is "coming back with professional lighting and sound," said jay Reidy, chairman ofthe An Tostal Executive Stall The contest is back for the first time in four years, and will he held in the Angela Athletic ,Facility. 
Hot air balloon rides are a new feature this year, with the rides being given on Saturday by the Firedragons, a South Bend balloon club. 
In order to save wear and tear on the quads, new loca­tions have been announced for some activities, Reidy said. All North Quad events have been moved to Stepan 
See AN TOST AL, page 5 expect an acceptable outcome in our arms control negotiations." 

Rep. Joseph Addabbo, D-N.Y., who helped marshal a 69-vote mar· gin ofdefeat for Reagan's MX plan in the House last December, predicted it would be rejected again. "I don't believe it will be as wide a margin as we had last vear," Addabbo said. He predicted MX foes will win by less than 10 votes this time. 
Rep. Jack Edwards, R-Ala., a key backer, said, ''I'm going to get a lot of Addabbo's votes. I think it's going to pass by a squeaker." 
House Republican Leader Robert 
Michel, an MX supporter, said that if 
Addabbo was counting on winning 
by less than .1 0 votes, "I have to be 
optimistic about it." 
Standing in the driveway outside 
the White House, Michel said, "We 
only elect one president at a time. 
Members (of Congress) are going to 
think a second and a third time 
before really cutting the legs out 
from under our negotiating team in 
Geneva." 

House Democratic Leader Jim 
Wright predicted the plan would be 
approved. 

White House spokesman Larry 
Speakes said Addabbo, chairman of 
the Appropriations Defense Sub­
committee, has agreed to separate 
the MX plan from the defense 
budget, and to begin work on it next 
week. 

The administration is trying to sell 
C...arnfll 

the MX package as the product of a Diane King, a seniorfrom Pittsburgh, smiles as Dame Bookstore. Commencement will occur on bipartisan commission, just as it she isfitted byjoe While for a cap for graduation May 15 in theACC, andjoseph Cardinal Bernar­in May. Measurements for caps and gowns con· di;, will be the main speaker at the event. 
See MX, page 3 
tinue ·today until 4 p.m. in the H___a__m___m__ e_s_ .No_t_re_ _______ 

Festival kicks offat SMC with 'Gentle Thursday' 
By TONI RUTHERFORD 
StaffReporter 
A few new events and different twists -including a 
try at the world's longest leapfrog -will highlight Saint 
Mary's Gentle Thursday activities, according to Mary 
Anne Daher, co-chairman of the Saint Mary's An Tostal 
Committee. 
The Gentle Thursday events, with the exception of the Beer Garden, are all sponsored by the Saint Mary's committee, which is co-chaired by Daher and Therese McDonald. 
The committee has added two new events to the day. The first will be a new record-breaking event called ·'The World's Longest Leapfrog." Daher said she hopes to have a representative of the South Bend Tribune there to document the record breaking jump. Another new event will be a dunking booth, provided that tem­peratures are high enough tomorrow. 
Other changes in the traditional program include helium filled balloons distributed by a clown, the music of two bands and a new picnic menu. Instead of the usual hamburgers and hotdogs, this year's menu will include fried chicken, bratwurst, watermelon, corn on the cob, and assorted salads. 
"The day's schedule was set to flow smoothly," said 
Daher. The canoe race will start at 4 p.m. on Lake 
Marion, and the picnic will run from 4:30 to 6:30. Picnic 
games will be run during the course ofthe picnic, start­
ing at 5:15 and lasting until 7. The jail will be open from 
4:30 to 7, after which the focus shifts to Angela for the Mr. Campus contest at 7:30. The Beer Garden will open, at 8 p.m. and will be serving until 12:30. 
These events will all be taking place on the field near McCandless Hall. 


Cuban U.N. delegates expelled for spying 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The United States ordered two Cuban 
U.N. diplomats expelled yesterday for what the government called "hostile" and "blatant" espionage ac· tivities. 
Neither the State Department nor the U.S. Mission to the United Na­tions elaborated on the allegations, but their statements indicated the Cubans were caught in acts the government deemed a serious threat to U.S. security. 

Under a 1947 U.N. headquarters agreement between the world body and Washington, the United States has the right to take action against diplomats it believes are abusing their privileges. 
The Cuban U.N. Mission, respond­ing in a note to the allegations, said it "firmly rejects" the U.S. govern­ment's contention that the two diplomats had abused their privileges. 
Cuban Ambassador Raul Roa declined comment. 
The two Cubans, identified as Rolando Salup Canto, a third secretary at the mission, andjoaquin Rodobaldo Penton Cejas, an attache, were given 48 hours to leave the country. Their departure would bring to five the number of Cuban 
U.N. diplomats expelled in the last nine months. 
In Washington, Alan Romberg, deputy State Department spokes­man, said Salup and Penton "have engaged in hostile intelligence ac­tivities aimed at the United States in blatant violation" of the 1947 head­quarters agreement. 

joel Blocker, spokesman for the 
U.S. Mission at U.N. headquarters, said the U.S. government "takes the 
' illegal activities of the Cubans quite seriously. We regard what they have done ... as blatant and directed against this country." 
He noted that the Cuban Mission, with 43 diplomats assigned, is the fourth largest behind those of the Soviet Union, the United States and China. 
The Cubans, he said, "have a record of continuing abuse of their diplomatic privileges." 

Last july, two other members of the Cuban U.N. staff, Mario Monzon Barata and jose Rodriguez Rodriguez, were ordered expelled for "deliberate violation of the trading with the enemy act" prohibiting American citizens or companies from trading with agents of countries placed on a prohibited list. No further details were given. 
A month later, another Cuban 
U.N. diplomat, juan Sandera Perez, was ousted on the same grounds. 

In 1981, Ricardo Escartin of the Cuban interests section in Washing ton was expelled for violating the same law, and the State Department said he also was identified as having been involved in intelligence gathering activities. 
--~ -,......---~ ~-----~-----~---~-­



News Briefs 
lh· /he (Jhsen•er and The Associated Press 
New York Times columnistJames Reston will 
talk about the art of sports writing and its relevance to political writing in the inaugural Red Smith Lecture in journalism tonight at 8 
p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The lecture honors Smith, a 1927 alumnus of Notre Dame who was considered one of America's greatest sportswriters. Reston, the winner oftwo Pulitzer Prizes and many other awards, will discuss Smith's contributions to journalism and explain why literary craftsmanship is significant to all forms ofreporting. -The Obseroer 
"Nuc1ear n·tsarmatnent" will be the topic at the 
first ofa planned annual series of"town meetings" co-sponsored by the League of Women Voters and the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. Leslie Brown, deputy assistant secretary of state in the State Department's Bureau for Political Military Affairs, will head a list of speakers at 7:30p.m. tonight in the auditorium ofthe Center. He will be joined by Robert Byrnes, professor ofhistory and former director of the International Affairs Center at Indiana University, and John Yoder, Notre Dame professor oftheology and Mennonite minister. A "reactor panel" will be allotted five minutes each to make a state­ment or ask a question in what planners hope will be an open and free exchange ofviews. -The Obseroer 
A forthcoming volume, Creation and Capitalism:]ohn Pauli/'s Laborem Exercens, is dedicated to Mon­signorJohn). Egan, former special assistant to Theodore Hesburgh and director ofthe Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry. The book, edited by ProfessorJohn W. Houck and Father Oliver F. Williams of the College of Business Administration, is scheduled for publication this June by the University Press of America. Twelve essays by scholars probe the encyclica1Laborem Exercens for guidance in the world ofwork. Egan, an official at Notre Dame for 13 years, moved in April to a new assignment assisiting Cardinal Bernadin in his home diocese ofChicago. -The Obseroer 
Aquarter mile ofquarterswill be the hoped-for 
result of a drive to be held this Saturday. The Circle K Club is sponsoring the event and is seeking donations to form a line ofquar­ters from Stepan Center to the Memorial Library. All donations will go to the Muscular Dystrophy Association. Maureen Burke, chairper­son of the event, explained that the club would begin collecting donations during !'-'uch on tomorrow and Friday. She emphasized that Ifeach student donated 50 cents, Circle K would achieve its goal -a quarter of a mile of quarters. The club estimates that the line would raise approximately ll4,000 for the MDA. Donations will also be accepted between 11 a.m. and 7 p.m. Saturday at Stepan Center. -The Obseroer 
"Th Q . f p 1 . " 
e uestion 0 a estine will be the sub­
ject of a lecture by Father James Burtchaell, professor of theology, tonight at 8:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. The lecture is being sponsored by the Arab Student Organization. -The Obseroer 
ABC won the final week with help from the Os­cars, but CBS emerged the season-long Nielsen ratings champion for the fourth straight year, its regular programming outlasting its rivals' barrage of specials and mini-series. The network's "60 Minutes," "Dallas," "M*A*S*H" and "Magnum, P.I.," which finished the Sept. 27-April 17 season in that order, proved mightier than such highly rated specials as "The Winds of War," "The Thorn Birds," the Academy Awards. the World Series or the Super Bowl. ABC claimed the final week and the highest-rated show by a wide margin was its telecast of the Academy Awards ceremonies. A Barbara Walters spe­cial on Oscar night tied for third place with CBS' "Dallas." CBS won the season with an A.C. Nielson Co. rating of 18.2, a half rating point ahead of second-place ABC. ABC ended the season with a rating of 
17.7, and it was able to close the gap on CBS on the strength of its mini-series and the Academy Awards telecast. NBC was third with a rating of 15.1. The top ten shows for the year were: "60 Minutes," CBS; "Dallas," CBS; "M*A*S*H," CBS; "Magnum, P.I.," CBS; "Dynasty," ABC; "Three's Company," ABC; "Simon & Simon," CBS; "Falcon Crest," CBS; "The Love Boat," ABC; and "The A-Team," NBC. 
-AP 

Aboutfive percentmore blacksthan whites 
voted in 1982 elections in Indiana, the Census Bureau reported yes­
terday. Indiana reported that 59.7 percent of the black voting age 
population turned out at the polls last year, compared with 54.7 
percent of the white voting age population, the Census Bureau said. 
Seven other states that also reported black turnout was higher than 
white turnout were California, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mis­
souri, South Carolina and Tennessee. Black and white turnouts were 
about equal in seven other states, including Michigan, Mississippi, 
Ohio. Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Texas and Virginia, the Census 
report said. The nationwide trend toward a sharply higher·turnout 
by black voters at the polls lends support to predictions that blacks 
will play an important role in the 1984 elections. The trend was 
dramatized by Democrat Harold Washington's victory in the April 
12 mayoral election in Chicago, where he won overwhelming sup­
port from the city's black voters. The bureau's biennial report on 
voting ;md registration pegged the turnout in the 1982 elections 
nationally at 43 percent of the black voting-age population. White 
turnout was 49.9 percent ofwhites 18 or older. -AP 
Partly sunnyand cooltoday. Highs in the mid and upper 40s. Increasing cloudiness and cool tonight with a 20 percent chance of rain. Lows in the mid 30s. Chance of rain and mild tomor­row. Highs in the mid 50s to about 60. -AP 
Wednesday, April 20, 1983 -page 2 
Healthy Competition 


Recently, a candidate for Grace Hall President in­cluded in his platform a proposal to allow the hall's foodsales to sell soap, shampoo, and other personal hygiene items. His proposal was shot down as he received notice that the sale of toiletries is forbidden for foodsales. 
Similarly, an attempt by Grace. Hall Foodsales Manager Mike Levchuck to sell aspirin was banned by the Administration when he was told that the sale of medical supplies was illegal for afood sales. 
Levchuck noted that the ban on selling toiletries is "an accepted rule for all foodsales." Thus, without com­petition from hall foodsales, the Bookstore assumes to­tal command over the sale of toiletries on campus. 
As a major means of income for the University, the Bookstore has expanded during the past few years into a vast operation -selling everything from NO beer mugs to sweaters emblazoned with the famed leprec­haun. Obviously, alumni and other visitors to Notre 
Jeff Harrington 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Wednesday 
Moreover, the variety ofselections leaves something to be desired. Thus, the lethal combination of increased costs and decreased selection confronts every student as a financial nightmare. 
The notion that the Bookstore has a virtual monopoly on selling accessory items to Notre Dame students is nothing new. However, the resumption ofan enforced ban on outside competition dramatizes the serious con­sequences ofthis monopoly. 
No one would logically challenge the right of the 

Dame have blossomed into a Bookstore to earn money. A ready financial source to be cornering of the market is tapped by the Bookstore. certainly not a bad business 
However, despite the move. But when economic popularity of Domer parap­policies result in a direct hernalia,' one of the most financial burden to the stu­consistent ways of increas­dent, it is time to re-examine ing Bookstore earnings is University priorities. The through the daily sale of Bookstore's wholesome toiletries to NO students. In desire for profits is coun­its role as the "corner tered by its obligation to the drugstore," the Bookstore 
WI:;P"F=----""'"""""""-...,...,===--=-==•..."' student. serves as the chief campus The Bookstore can only distributor of soap, sham­go so far in its attempt to en­poo, toothpaste, shaving hance profits. Once student creme, cosmetics, medicine, competition is totally smot­toothbrushes, and a host of hered, the democratic other "necessity" items. capitalist spirit itself is 
Stifled by the isolated crushed. campus, though, many stu­Despite its policies, the 
dents have literally nowhere 
else to go but the Bookstore 

to buy needed toiletries. Without the advantage ofa car, 
they cannot easilv journey to University Park Mall or 
Martin's Supermarket every time they need a new bar of 
soap or conditioner for their hair. Furthermore, the closing of Kroger's on State Road 23 last year com­pounded the problem by destroying the last available competition to the Bookstore. 
A more apparent illustration of the Bookstore's con­trol over the sale of necessities lies in the practice of promoting student charge cards. The ease of"charging the bill" to Mom and Dad will naturally lead to in­creased student sales. Given the chance to take the easy way out, students will naturally allow their bill to grow to gigantic proportions before it is sent home. 
The age-old controversy of whether Bookstore 
prices are higher than market values resurfaces with 
greater vigor under the weight oflimited student funds. 
In one sense, the singular control of the Bookstore 
seems to invite such a practice of higher price setting. 

University has a genuine 
need to develop small student-run co-ops and to allow foodsales to expand their individual operations. After all, since money is being channelled back into the dorms, the University will still benefit from student sales. 
In the long run, the Bookstore itself would even benefit from allowing student competition. For, if prices continue to climb beyond the students' financial reach, Bookstore consumers will find some way to make it off campus and take their business elsewhere. Then, the real competitive battle will begin. 
Observer note__________ 
The Observer is always lookingfor new talent. if you are interested in newspaper writing or newspaper production, stop up at The Observer office on the ]rd floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 

f--The_Ohser:ver_ 
Design Editor.......................... ............ Troy 
fJesign Assistant.........  . .... Maureen  
7)•pesetters .....  .. Rq~~ic  
Tom  

News Editor. ......................................... Mark CofJJ' Editor.............................................Tom 
Features Lt~vout..... .... Sarah Editorials l.t~rout....... . ......... Kiclh 
Sports CofJJ' Editor ......................... Sieve .VD Day Editor.......... . ....Jane SMC Dt~J' Editor ...................................... Tim T.l'Pist .................................................... Betsy Atl Design ........................................ ...... Paul? 
Photographer... ............ Ed G"uest Appeara11ces..... . . .. Marilyn Nectllcss i~ doing feature~? \1c(Jinn & the wench Bruce .VIargraft ,\1ike ":\ UourColurnn" ~ullivan David Popson (Riccardi predicts) 
Ne:<t Tuestla)' Night• Pany time!! 

The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 1S 
Puh<1shed Munday lhrough Fr<day 
.. , l"P' 1ur~~g exa'Tl and vacalton 
Pt-r<ud~ The Observer IS publiShed 
by the ~ludenls of Noire Da'Tle and 
Sd1~1 Marys College Subscr~pl10ns 
lldy be puu hasea for S30 per year 
,s 15 per se·neslen by wr111ng The Ob­
server. P U Bux 0 -Notre Dame In 
•J1ana 46556 

The Observer 15 a 'Tle•nber uf lhe 
Assu( 1ated Press All reproductiOn 
r1ghb dre reserved 


mt lKni!lltt& pftlttQ!astlt 
Haircut Shampoo Blowdry & Condition Reg. $15 NOW $8.50 with coupon 
Haircut only $6 with coupo~
......,,.).JJ Terrace Lane, South Bend (Across from 

(Hair must be washed day of cut)
Martin's on S.R. 23) 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 
THURS., FRI., 8:30-8:30 
SAT. 8:30-5:30 

($6 offer only applies to male patrons) 

The Observer Wednesday, April20, 1983-page 3 



HPC votes unanimously inl favor of coed campus dormitories at ND 

By MIKE KRISKO 
Staff Reporter 
Though the Hall Presidents Coun­cil could not agree on which dor­mitories should be involved, the council unanimously voted in favor of having coed dormitories at Notre Dame. 
At last night's meeting, new HPC 
Chairman Mike Carlin picked up 
from the council's previous decision 
not to endorse the Stanford-Farley 
coed dorm proposal by opening the 
floor to discussion of more feasible 
coed housing plans. 
Grace Hall President Pete DiC­hiara suggested a 1974 plan that was proposed by former Grac t e Hall Rec­tor Father Thomas McNally. DiC­hiara said, "The project would be a one-year experiment in which four sections of Grace would house females. Sections would be equipped with the Detex system for security purposes." DiChiara said 
•h-.t the Admissions Office should not accept as many males in order to take care of those who would havt~ lived in the sections. "Accepting fewer males would help to equalize the male-female ratio. which is an objective of the PACE Report," he said. 
Carlin, with the majority of the council, stated that DiChiara's proposal was asking for too much. "It would be better to take a smaller step, similar to the Stanford-Farley proposal," he said. 
After further discussion, the coun· cil reaffirmed its belief in coed housing, but it was unable to arrive at a specific plan that would include certain dorms. Carlin decided that the issue needed more time to be· researched and that the council should delay further discussion until the next meeting. 
In other business, Executive Vice· President of the Notre Dame Credit Union Dick Van Pantea announced that "Ex.::hange" A TM cards and per· sonal identification numbers will be· available to student members in their residence halls during the 
evenings ofApril 27, 28, and 29. 
Carlin also read Chairperson of Li'l Sibs Weekend Sue Fleck's message that no refunds will be dis· tributed for no-shows after this weekend. 
Special Olympics Advisory Board Member Joe Kernan asked the coun­cil to ask for volunteers-for a door­to-door campaign to raise funds for a St. Joseph County Special Olympics. "Since the State Special Olympics has decided to limit the number of participants from each county, we would like to hold a St. Joseph County Special Olympics at Notre Dame on May 21-22. In order to have this, we need to raise an addi­tional S25,000 to pay the university for the rooms and meals." 
"The drive would cover as much of the county as possible and would end in time for the Blue-Gold Game," added Kernan. 
The hall presidents agreed to hold sign-ups in their respective dorms this week. 

FBI report 

Serious crime rates drop sharply 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -The num­"The decline is welcome news. decline. ber of serious crimes reported to Continued emphasis on the fight "With ctuzens taking an active police in America dropped four per­against crime is essential to progress part, law. enforcement agencies cent in 1982, according to FBI in the future," said Attorney General across the country have instituted figures released yesterday. It was the William French Smith, who crime resistance programs," sharpest decline in five years. launched a federal campaign against Webster said. "This reported 
The FBI said murder, robbery, violent crime, particularly drug­decrease indicates that perhaps rape and aggravated assault were related crime, upon taking office in those efforts are finally having an im­down three percent from 1981. The 1981. pact on the crime problem." far more numerous property crimes But neither Smith nor FBI director The only serious crime which of burglary, larceny-theft and motor William H. Webster claimed the showed an increase was aggravated vehicle theft dropped four percent. federal effort was responsible for the assault, up one percent over 1981. 
• • . MX 

continuedfrom page 1 
promoted the Social Security bailout plan drafted by a bipartisan group. Michel said the commission's report will give congressmen leeway "to get off of any kind of hard position" and vote for the MX. 
Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., converted from foe to supporter of Reagan's plan, said, "This is about the best thing we can get." 
Reagan's announcement starts the clock running on a 45-day congres.. sional countdown on the MX program. That is the deadline' Congress imposed on itself for accepting or rejecting a basing sys­tem. Congress deleted funds to produce the MX last December be­cause of the controversy over the basing mode. 


If you're a senior and have the promise of a $10,000 career-oriented job, American Express would like to offer you the American Express' Card. 
What are we? 
Crazy? 

No, confident. Confident of your future. But even more than that. We're confident of you now. And we're proving it. A $10,000 job promise. That's it. No strings. No gimmicks. And this offer is even good for 12 months after you graduate. 
But why should you get the American Express Card now? 
Well, if you're planning a trip across country or around the world, the American Express Card is a real help. Get plane tickets with it. Then use it for hotels and restaurants all over the world. And, if you should need any help while you're away, just go to any American Express Travel Service Office* wherever you are-and they'll help out. 
r. -~-----'-------~ 
Ofcourse, the Card also helps you establish your credit history. And it's great for restaurants and shopping right at home. 
So callS00-528-8000 for a Special Student Application l)r kx)k for one at your college lxx)kstore oroncampus hulletin hoards. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it:" 
Look for an application on campus. 

t Am~ncan brreu Cumpan~. Jytll 

A collection of36 l'intage photographs by Leu•is /line, including "Spinner and Foreman in Georgia Cotton .Hill, /'}08," are on dis­play until .Hay 22 in the Snite Museum. Considered one of this countr,•'s most important 20th-century• photographers, Hine recorded u•ith great clari~V the faces of immigrants passing through Ellis Island, slum conditions, factor,• wor~ers, field laborers and all significant social concerns. Thephotographs haz1e been loaned to the museum by the Hallmark Photographic Collec­tion ofKansas Cizv. 
The Observer Wednesday, April20, 1983-page 4 

This is a general view ofthe American Embassy in West Beirut that was damaged by a huge bomb blast Monday afternoon. The bomb collapsed the entire front of the seven story building. The embassy is located on the seaside corniche. U.S. Marines and Lebanese rescue workers report that 47persons are dead or missing andpresumed dead in the rubble. See story at right. 
~OHIOIIItiiHOOOIIIItlltiHIIOIIIOIII-HOIIIHIIHIIIII-IIIOIIOOIIIOIIIIHIIIIIHIIIIII" 

iHey Freshmen and Sophomores Need a Job for Next Year? 

The Observer is looking for a few good salesmen to work in the Advertising I Dept. Access to car preferred. 
Contact Chris Owen at 239 · 7471 or239·5313 (this week) 
................................................................................................., 
WHAT DOES THE STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE HAVE FORME? 
CHEAPER PR/CES...Su•-.14-Jl•fftulprim! MOSTCURRENTS/NGLES-~65orcomt••""' 
Sl1.991isl) 

CUT-OUTS... sl.9s-s5.9s GREATSELECTION... sprm•men, Fo.-tber,, s""" 
Nicks, C...hnstopher Cross, Moody Blues, Pur BenUiur, Journry 11nd 
many, many morr... 

ALSO... remrdedundblunk topesu~·utluble. CONVENIENCE. .. TheNDSURe<wdSJ,.·etslo<uied on the Mom F/a(Jr ofLuForrune. PIus-ordered albums luke c:ur(~· one IAlet:'l.: lfJ urnI''·' 


................~oupon................ 



Students and Staff 
of St. ffinty's nnd Notte Dnme 
additional oH


SlOO 

On your best denl on nny new ToyotQ. 1' 
Just present coupon nnd I.D. to 
ffiichnel Fnhey nt \~ 
over100stQtf, nlum, &students sold Cnii237-40S2 one per customer ................coupon............... 


Six more Americans discovered by searchers in Beirut embassy 
BEIRUT, Lebanon ( AP) -Search­ers recovered six more bodies from the bomb-shattered U.S. Embassy yesterday and continued their grim task, with 47 people known dead or missing and presumed dead from the worst attack ever on a U.S. facility here. 
Embassy spokesman John Reid said eight Americans were con­ftrmed dead and eight others were missing from the massive explosion Monday. Among the conftrmed dead was Robert Clayton Ames, the CIA's Near East and South Asian analyst, of­ftcials said in Washington in a rare case of naming a CIA agent who worked abroad. 
There was no clear picture ofhow the attack was carried out, but most accounts said a terrorist drove an explosives-laden vehicle into the compound and perished in the blast. 
Ten Lebanese embassy employees, visa applicants and visitors were conftrmed dead; while 20 others were missing, said Reid. The 47th victim listed was.an embas­sy visitor ofunknown nationality, he said. 
After Reid's announcement, workers recovered six more badly mutilated bodies and parts ofbodies from the destroyed embassy cafeteria, but it was not clear how that affected the casualty count. 
Police said 120 people were wounded in the explosion, includ­ing 22 Americans. 
The bodies were hauled from beneath chunks ofmasonry and con­crete left in huge piles by the bomb, which exploded at lunchtime Mon­day. It blasted off the center facade, collapsed all seven floors in the central section and caused heavy damage to the two wings. 
U.S. Marines, Navy personnel and other searchers used a steamshovel and two backhoes to dig through the devastation. 
Asquad ofMarines raised the Stars anJ Stripe~ at ~unrise yesterday on a flagpole that escaped the blast, and survivors returned to the scene where they watched the search and recounted their nightmare. 
Consular officer Lisa Piasik said the blast struck just as she got to the ftfth floor of the embassy for her weekly Arabic lesson. Like most of the section where she works, her ftrst floor office was destroyed. 
"If I'd been there ..." she said, her voice trailing off. 
A fanatic Lebanese Shiite group called Moslem Holy War claimed responsibility. Two other unknown groups also said they had bombed the embassy, but police blamed the Shiites. 
In Tehran, Foreign Minister Ali Kabra Velayiati was quoted by the official news agency as denying any involvement by Iran. 
Police said two witnesses reported -separately that a man wearing a black leather jacket raced a black pickup truck into the embas­sy driveway moments before the ex­plosion. Lebanese authorities said the vehicle was loaded with be­tween 330 pounds and 500 pounds ofexplosives. 
Three Mile Island 

Supreme Court allows reopening 
WASHINGTON (AP) The government can allow Pennsylva­nia's Three Mile Island nuclear power plant to reopen without ftrst weighing whether that would men­tally injure nearby residents fearful ofa recurring accident, the Supreme Court ruled yesterday. 
In a 9-0 decision, the court said potential psychological harm to in­dividuals is not addressed by a federal law requiring the govern­ment to examine environmental questions when it licenses nuclear reactors. 
"We think the context of the statute shows that Congress was talking about the physical environ­ment -the world around us, so to speak," said Justice William H. Rehnquist. "Ifa harm docs not have a sufficiently close connection to the physical environment (the law) does not apply." 
The ruling means that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission may permit 
the undamaged Unit 1 reactor at Three Mile Island to resume opera­tions without considering the pos­sible anxiety it could cause in the 
community. 

The adjacent Unit 2 reactor was damaged on March 28, 1979, in the nation's worst commercial nuclear accident. Repair ofUnit 2 is continu­ing, with no restart date likely in the near future. 
In other decisions Tuesday, the 
court: 

•Ruled, 5-4, that states may not impose spring deadlines for inde­pendent presidential candidates to ftle for the November general elec­tion. 
The court said candidates like for­mer Republican Illinois Congressman John Anderson, who bolted the GOP to become an inde­pendent candidate in 1980, should have time to see who the major parties pick in their mid-summer conventions. 
•Limited 
the federal govern­ment's power to demand access to the business records of companies that do business with it. The 7-2 decision, in a case involving the Merck drug company, denies the government authority to examine a ftrm's spending for such activities as research, marketing and promotion. 

•Made 
it a little easier for police to search for illegal goods such as drugs and weapons without ftrst get­ting a court warrant. The ruling, in a Texas case, allowed police to seize a heroin-ftlled balloon because it vvas plainly visible. 

• 
Bolstered, by an 8-1 vote, the power of the Internal Revenue Service to obtain tax records. The justices said in a California case that taxpayers cannot withhold docu­ments merely by claiming they do not have them and then refusing to answer further questions because it might tend to incriminate them. 


~ ·~ 
ND Clubs &Organizations ~ TIME TO RE-REGISTER FOR 83-84. NEW SYSTEM THIS YEAR! 
1. 
Registration-now thru April 22. 

2. 
Activity Report -Due by Apri I 22. 


3. Applications for activity funds for 83-84-Due by April 22. 
4. 
Footbal Concession Stand for Fall, 83-Due April22. 

5. 
Movie Application for Fall, Spring 83-84-Due April15 


All forms available in the Student Activities Office, LaFortune. FUNDS FOR NEXT YEAR WILL BE AWARDED THIS SPRI~ 




r---------------------------------------,
1st Annual Marketing "Ciubbers" 1 Golf Outing FRIDAY, APRIL 29th I 
I 

GETYOURFOURSOMESTOGETHER! I 
I I
Tee Off's Start at Noon 
I 
Club Cook· Out Afterwards at the I I 
Presidential Manor I I I $10.00 per person I I 
Sign · up by Fri., Apri/22 in Marketing O.ffice 



~---------------------------------------~ 

The Observer Wednesday, April 20, 1983 -page 5 
Withholding proposal cQnsidered by Senate 
Ten-year-old juan Carlos (right) watches his 14-year-oldfriend insert a.five-cartridge clip into a Czechoslovakian semi-automatic rifle during a Sandinista Popular Militia training session Sun-
Hostages freed 
Convicts end Penn. prison siege 
PITTSBURGH (AP)-Two armed convicts freed two hostages and sur­rendered yesterday, endinga six-day siege in a windowless prison base­ment room that started during a botched escape attempt. 
"It's over," prison spokesman Ken 
Robinson announced at midafter­
noon, after both prisoners had given 
their guns to negotiators and both 
hostages were out ofdanger. 
The first break in the grueling standoff had come at 10:38 a.m., when the prisoners freed hostage Kostas "Gus" Mastros, 51, from the room where he and fellow hostage Danny Kohut, 39, had been bar­ricaded since Thursday. 
News of Mastros' safe release 
prompted cheers from many of the 
I,300 inmate at the State Correc­
tional institution who had been kept 
locked in their cells during the 
drama. 
Kohut was given a hug and kiss by 
Mr. Goodbar clue 
This is the third clue in the 'Looking For Mr. Goodbar" contest. Clues will appear each day this week. Use them to determine where a Mr. Goodbar candy wrapper is hid­den on campus. 
Oz•ersea and under stone there is Mr. Goodbar's home. Make a wish upon this dwelling pitchedpennies may helpforetelling. 
If you find the wrapper, Call ~osemary at 283-6858. 
Thefirstperson tofind Mr. Goodba receives a dinner for two at Tip lpecanoe Place Restaurant. 
• • . An Tostal 
conlinuedjrom page I 
Center, and the Mattress Race and Keg Toss have been moved to Green Field. All other events will be held as stated in the An Tostal booklet. 
"All of the events are budgeted to break even," Reidy said. The events which do raise money -UMOC, Jail, and the *Serf Auction -benefit Sister Marita's Da_r Care Center in South Bend. The Center is the tradi­tional benefactor of these activities. 
The other fund-raising activity, the Circle K's "Quarter-mile of Quarters," will help the Muscular Dystrophy Association. · 
In 196"', An Tostal started as a Notre D;tme tradition. "An Tostal at Notre Dame is a little zanier than Ireland's," said Reidy. "It has become the 'last blast' on campus." 


BAKER'S BIKE SHOP 
Inc
~e~\J\lt\\\\ Bicyclles Parts, Accessories, Qnd Service for Qlll ffiQkes 277-8866 
In Roseland ·one half mile north of campus, on u.:s. 31 


WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate Republicans, badly divided over President Reagan's plan to withhold taxes from interest and dividends, weighed a compromise yesterday that would delay the provision at least four years and possibly forever. 
"I think this is going to be the agreement," said Sen. Bob Kasten, R­Wis., leader of the fight to repeal withholding. He said there was a good chance the compromise could be passed by the Senate before the night was out. 
There was no immediate response from the White House or from Sen. Robert J. Dole, R-Kan., chief Senate backer ofwithholding. 
"I don't think the president is going to have a lot of choice" on accepting the compromise, Kasten said. "We have the votes." 
Reagan's allies, sensing defeat, continued to delay a scheduled test vote on the withholding issue and used the time to explore Kasten's compromise. _ 
Acc6rding to Kasten, the new plan would delay the start of withhold­ing, now scheduled for July I, until July 1987 at the earliest. In the meantime, penalties would be raised on people who are found to cheat on the taxes on their interest and dividends, and reporting require­ments for such income would be stiffened. 
The General Accounting Office would report to Congress by January 1987 on how taxpayers are complying with laws requiring them to pay taxes on their interest and dividends. Ifthe compliance rate ­now about 85 percent -were in­creased to 95 percent or better by that time, there would be no withholding. 
Ifcompliance were under 95 per­cent, withholding could be imposed by a vote in the House and Senate. 
Kasten said there were indica­tions House leaders, who want to retain withholding, would not block action on the compromise. 
On July I, most financial institu­tions and corporations are to begin withholding for the government I 0 percent of interest earned on savings and dividends paid on stocks. The money would be sub­tracted from taxes owed when a recipient files a tax return the following year. 
Reagan, Dole and other backers of withholding portray it as an efficient way of catching some of the 20 mil­lion couples and individuals who, the Imernal Revenue Service es­timates, fail to pay tax on some or all their investment income. That eva­sion costs the government about $8 billion a year; the Treasury Depart­ment says withholding would catch between S2 billion and 53 billion of that. 
Opponents, led by Kasten, say withholding is unfair to people who already pay their taxes and that it would be far less efficient than requiring the IRS to simply match tax returns with reports of interest and dividend income. 
The issue has prompted a flood of mail from depositors, demanding that withholding be repealed. Much of it has been inspired by banks, many of which have handed out form letters and paid the postage. 
Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D­Ohio, said people are writing be­cause banks have not been telling the truth. "They have frightened people into thinking that they are going to lose vast sums of money due to the loss ofcompound interest on the money that is withheld." 
his 3-year-old daughter, Mandy, who said "I'm real proud of you daddy," according to the guard's former wife, Cathy Kohut. 
"We didn't promise the inmates anything," said Warden George Pet­sock. "We gave them nothing. We signed no agreement." 
He said the inmates were moved to avoid reprisals. 
"If you caused inmates to be locked up for six days and two staff members to be abused mcnally, then you're going to face a lot of animosity," said Petsock. 
The two prison employees had been taken captive by Richard Henkel, 45, a convicted bank robber to be tried this week for murder, and Louis Coviello, a 26-year-old con­victed murderer, in a basement room used for processing transfers. 
At 12:30 p.m. negotiators heard a muffled shot fired from the room, but Kohut came to the door and yelled out that he was unhurt. 

~~THEUNCOMMONS~~ 
BEER CARRY
still meet at 
WINE OUT 
LIQUOR 

COMMON'S 
FAMOUS FOR ITS BURGER! 
CALLING ALL CHICAGO AREA STUDENTS 
Make Summer work for you 


by earning college credits 
More than 100 courses available in 28 fields of study, including art, business. criminal justice, education, English, history, mass communications, physical sciences, psychology, sociology .... 
For a brochure, call (312) 779-3300 or send coupon today 
rT') Saint Xavier College
~ 3700 West 103rd St., Chicago, IL 60655 
Please send me a Summer Session brochure: 
Name_ 
Address 

City State Zip 
Send to Registrar, Saint Xavier College, 3700 W. 103rd St.. Chicago, IL 60655 
-~--------~--~~----~--~----~..............~..............................~ 
Editorials 
Wednesday, April 20, 1983 -page 6 
Bishops' Pastoral -peculiarly American 
The third draft of the National Council of Catholic Bishops' Pastoral on War and Peace presents the committed attempt of the 226­member body to give the American Catholic the nuclear-age equivalent of the Baltimore catechism. The prayerful mood of the letter addresses the biblical and encyclical citations as revelations offact and faith. 
Paul McGinn 

Roper Review 
But the scope of the pastoral as a universal document is tainted by the implied Americanisms throughout the document. Accepting war as a necessary condition of human existence, the bishops implicitly point to war as an everlasting antecedent to peace. In other words, there will be no lasting peace until the world crashes around itself in a nuclear holocaust. 
The bleak outlook, much of which is con­tained within the third section ofthe pastoral, "The Moral Choices for the Kingdom," stems from a peculiarly American sense of Messiah­ship. 
The remembrances of the Munich Pact of 
1938 and Neville Chamberlain's ill-fated "Peace in our time" are interwoven with the horrors of Auschwitz and Dachau. Americans hear the atrocities of the Gulag Archipelago and the cruelty of China's Gang of Four, and respond in a selfless fervor to right the wrongs of tyranny. 
While the industrial might of America was able to stem the Nazi and Fascist threats ofHit­ler, Mussolini, and Tojo, the atomic strength of Minuteman and Poseidon missiles cannot so easily rectify the wrongs of a dictator with­out devastating his tyrannized people. 
It is to the people of the United States that the pastoral is addressed. It cannot be a wordy or theologically nebulous document. It must be a strong-willed challenge to nuclear arms. But it cannot lose the support of the people, people who see religious conviction and patriotism as synonymous terms. 
Molded by the American Protestant tradi­tions of "God and Country," most American Catholics feel little conflict between American foreign policy in El Salvador and papal denunciations of violence in Central America. Simply put, many Americans feel that the pope's condemnation of violence, while commendable, is not as practical as shipping arms to fight supposed Moscow­trained insurgents. 
If anyone doubts this peculiarly American Catholic phenomenon, he need only read the inscription above the east portal of Sacred Heart Church on Notre Dame's campus: "For God, Country, and Notre Dame." 

The bishops cannot appear as if they are reacting to the concept of national defense. "Hippies" did that in the 1960s and alienated almost everyone over the age of 30. To chal­lenge national defense would incense most conservatives to redouble their efforts to match the supposed communist-inspired papal threat. 
Non-violence is a concept foreign to most 
Americans. A nation of John Wayne and 
George Patton fans label the conscientious 
objector and the pacifist commitment as 
"yellow." 

The military establishment itself must be dealt with tactfully. The bishops cannot beat a general over the head with a plowshare -he might wipe out their dioceses. 
As to the wording of the document itself, the pastoral attempts to supersede papal en­cyclicals and Scripture by remaining relative­ly general in its statements about the weapons systems and tactics of the superpowers. 
The challenge of the pastoral should have based itself in the the responses to the current threats and implications ofthe MX and Cruise missiles, the tank build-ups in Europe, the relative conventional and nuclear arsenals of the superpowers, and the foreign policies of the United States and the Soviet Union in par­ticular countries. 
The bishops should have realized that they could not produce a universal and lasting vi­sion of the state ofhuman affairs. This pastoral is a spe~itlcally American document, and must answer the the questions ofa certain period of history. 
The pastoral, just like the United States and the Soviet Union, will pass away. The bishops should have used the document only as a first move toward the publication oflater pastorals concerning the arms race and universal justice. 
The major themes of war and peace, while the highest moral challanges of humanity, ex­ist for all time. The urgency of the 1980s demands a coherent discussion ofthe conven­tional and nuclear arms race, not a patent statement on the role of peace and war in the affairs of the human race. 
The questions of the arms race are par­ticular and transient. The answers, while guided by an immutable concept ofgood and evil, must answer the ever-changing questions oftoday. It is the present which can kill us; it is the present we must answer. 
P. 0. BoxQ 
thermore, He reveals Himself so that we studied theology under the same depart­participating, and having fun. And they will might know the truth. jesus says, "For this I ment as Mr. Foubert. not consider for one moment that they
Response 
was born, and for this I have come into the Finally, I would stress that informed dis­throw, smash, and waste all these "painfully 
world, to bear witness to the truth"(John course would be better served by a reasoned sacrificed" Wednesday lunches. They will DearEditor: 18:37). analysis ofthe logic ofthe Church's teaching not consider that they turn an idea, an action 
While my letter has caused some misun­It would be a malevolent God indeed which I have tried to express than taking up that originated in a desire to help into a big derstanding to Mr. Foubert on a number of who, having told us there is truth, then aban­personal attacks on my credibility and farce. points, I will address what I feel is the most dons us so that sincere people come to divi­making obscure allusions to some"vigilante And here I am, a dumb, arrogant foreigner, critical. Mr. Foubert charactizes my ap­sion over what is true. mentality" on campus. If Mr. Foubert thinks who dares to condemn this good old proach as a "notion that the Holy Spirit It is for this reason that God, in His loving (as he has a right to) that I fail to grasp the American notion offun. Mind, I do not even reposes solely in officeholders while kindness has given His people the institu­teaching of the Church on this matter, I come from a country where millions of remaining ineffectual among the laity ..." I tional Church headed by the successors of humbly ask him to give me brotherly correc­people are starving. I only come from a regret that Mr. Foubert has read me this way, St. Peter and the Apostles. The :\1agisterium tion, not an ad homin em polemic. country (Austria) where every child is for I thought I was quite clear when I said, teaches by the authority of the Holy Spirit so Michael Quinlan taught at school and at home not to throw "The Church has always recognized the that all the world may do so with confidence B.A. Philosophy away, waste, or play with food. The more be­dynamic activity of the Holy Spirit in the that what they believe and li\'e is true. wildering it is for me to he confronted with a lives of the faithful." To bold that Christians The authority of the Magbterium cannot Catholic institution. which feels morally do not receive the fulness of the Holy Spirit be viewed as inimical to our freedom as responsible for its members in every other
Egg toss 
through the sacraments of Christian initia­secular authority is (it is not a ":\1arine Corp aspect of life, but which accepts, approves, tion (baptism, confirmation, and Holy Euc­model," as Foubert suggests). The Magis­Dear Editor: or ignores such activities. Obviously it must harist) would be contrary to the teaching of terium teaches not becau~e it has the power Egg toss -Fridt~J' 12:45 -in front of be my nationality that accounts for my not the Church and thus patent error. Let there to do so, but because it has the obligation to lower li/Jrctry•. So it says in big colorful chalk understanding and seeing the difference be­be no misunderstanding: jesus has sent the do so. In this way, it is an authority which letters oh the path outside of tween stripping in a bar in Ft. Lauderdale and Holy Spirit, the Paraclete, the "Lord and gives us freedom to be active in the world O'Shaughnessy. A lot of fun -that's what cheerfully smashing a hundred eggs. It goes Giver ofLife" to dwell in us and to guide our without having to question and ponder (almost) everybody thinks, right? A good old without saying that Ido not comprehend the feet on the way to salvation. every article ofour faith. American tradition. justifiability of food fights, either. And that I 
There is. however, a critical distinction Does all this mean that theologians have Being a foreigner, I do not know or under­am at a loss when people here try to vind­between the guidance one receives in attain­no role in the Church? Certainly not. stand good old American traditions. I know a icate all that with the words: "But we paid ing one's own salvation and the guidance of Theologians play an indispensable role lot ofstudenb who very proudly and smugly for it. That means it is ours, and we can do the whole People of God -the Church. If among the People of God. Yet, it is their give up their Wednesday ·lunches for the with it whatever we want." the Holy Spirit calls me to fast, must the great virtue to humbly submit to the author­poor and stan'ing in this world who will be I wonder -is that how slavery worked? whole Church fast? If the Holy Spirit teaches ity ofthe Magisterium when a dispute arises. in front of the library on Friday, cheering, Sylvia Mayr me that I'm to be a hermit, must the whole There is no equality ofauthority between an Church become hermits? academic degree and the divine charism of 
St. Thomas was right when he said, "One teaching authority vested in the Pope and man's virtue is another man's vice." The Bishops. Regardless of what a theologian truth, which the Holy Spirit teaches me believes, he-she is bound in humility and regarding how I am to work out my own charity to avoid division and scandal among salvation, may not be my brothers or sister's the laity caused by irresponsible academic truth. What is good for me may be a stum­speculation and discord. bling block for another. I must say that I fail to see how my letter 
On the other hand, it would be absurd to represents what Foubert characterizes as a say that the Holy Spirit may teach me that "vigilante mentaliy." Nor do I see where it Christ was not divine and to teach my sister amounts to a "pernicious and coercive that He is and to say further that both in­developmment." I should probably be an­spirations are true. We have only to recall gered by Mr. Foubert's ad hominem attack: the Arian heresy to see that sincere people "Mr. Quinlan would do better to take a can err in what they believe the Holy Spirit course in the study of scripture ... for then teaches them. he might realize the shabbiness of mis­
We must recognize that there are ab­representing other's arguments and then solute truths. God is all knowing: He knows violating the integrity of scriptural texts to the truth or falsity ofevery proposition. Fur-support his own bud<!ing P?lemic." I have 

·i 
Box Q, NotreDame, IN 46556 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni· versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheirauthors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinionson.c.ampus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219)239-5303

• <:_..,,"'--::.: ,.,...--,.._ --, ...-:_; ~ ;-·.;:. ~ _. ::-~-'-·· , -·t """""'"~"" -......;r •.;:~. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Cbief............................David Dziedzic SaintMary'sEditor...............Anne Monastycski 
Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe SportsEditor .............................Michael Riccardi ExecutiveEditor.._.......... ; ................ Paul McGinn Features Editor............................Sarah Hamilton News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide Photo Editor............................... -........Scott Bower News Edttor.................................Mark Worscheh 
Department Managers 
Business Manager···············--·······Daniell,.Hare Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto 
Controller............................................Alex Szilvas Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen Founded November 3,1966 
~StiOWC SE 
Blowing oH creQtively 
I
t happens to almost everyone, despite self­couldn't you get to class, but that you did yourself and proclamations to the contrary, despite admonish­as much ofmankind as possible a favor by not attending. ments from friends, and dire warnings from profs, you This is where many ofthe stale excuses fail. For in­blow off a class. For most people this is a vicarious thrill. stance, "Gosh, Professor Dippo, but my alarm clock You glance at the time, to gleefully discover that you've didn't work and I overslept." First ofall, this hackneyed already missed ten minutes ofclass. Images ofyour utterance paints you in a bad· light. Why make yourself academic colleagues trapped within the confines you look like a dope who can't work an alarm clock? Second· have forgone put a wry smile on your face. ly, the profprobably paled at the prospect ofanother 
The roots ofclass truancy can be traced back to most day with a bunch of bonehead students who never lis­people's childhood. Veteran blow-offers often get their ten to his or her lectures on "Goat Imagery in start at early ages. Who can forget those miserable mor· Shakespeare," and would have preferred to have taken nings ofyouth when the prospect ofanother day away the day off. from one's toys and television, tempered with the 
Instead, imagine this scenario. Your alarm clock goes prospects ofsoggy baloney lunches and girls (or boys) 
off at 7:00a.m. beckoning you to your 8:00 class. You with cooties, resulted in the plea, "Mom, I don't feel 
glance outside at South Bend's April snow showers, vou contemplate watery yellow egg-matter for breakfa;t, 
and you remember that there's a quiz today on material you never did comprehend. Suddenly, with a decisive force, you slam down the offbutton on blithering U93. As blissful quiet descends upon your room, you return 

Ryan Vet 8etkmoes 
confused and verbose 
to dreams ofpleasure. Later, you can rise near noon in good." 

time for a leisurely lunch in the Dining Hall. The youngster wailing this pitiful cry embarked on a 
But what to do about your missed test, and bummedscam that would do the most veteran con-men proud. 

prof?

Success ofthese elementary holidays hinged on one Easy.
crucial point, being sick enough to stay home, but not too sick to have fun. Going overboard with the Everyone has a soft spot in his heart for nuns. Espe­stomach-ache groans, mysterious body pains, and cially old ones. They are the ones who usually wear the general"blah" feeling, can backfire tragically and result full habits -the kind that can catch the wind like a sail. in confinement to bed, or worse a trip to the doctor to Your spiel should go something like this: be "examined." On the other hand, the individual down 
"Well, sir I marn, I was walking by the lakes looking for playing the symptoms runs lhe risk ofbeing carted off 

wounded ducks to feed, when I saw this elderly nun 

with the other sniffle-noses in the school bus. 
walking some distance away. Suddenly thishuge gust of Things aren't so easy in college, for one thing, your wind caught her habit and she flew into the lake. Well. I parents aren't around to fall for your stories. Instead stopped putting crackers into the ailing mallards peekerpleas ofill health can only be directed on the kind souls and dove in to save her. I dragged her to shore and at The Infirmary. There, people on the brink ofoblivion revived her. Afterwards, we went and said a rosary to­are probed with thermometers, violated by tongue gether. !lit a candle for you sir/mam."

depressers, given a packet of Darvon and told to scram. What is needed are excuses and reasons to legitimi;!:e 
Properly dom:, there is no way even the meanest indolent behavior. The key to success is creativity; the 
profs heart couldn't melt at astory like this. But remem· older the prof, the more he or she has heard. To be truly 
ber, be sure you're the first to use it. There are only so many elderly nuns.

effective, the alibi should give the illusion that not only 
The tont of powet tools 
S 
rudents who have classes in tion a high lady named Dulcinea; in been working round the clock to Washington Hall will have reality a kitchen slut by the name of assure that this will be the most stun· noticed a rather odd (and messy) Aldonza. The plot follows Quixote ning production the Student Players structure taking shape on the stage through the twisted hut beautiful have yet presented. Actors joke there. It began simply enough: a .vorld of his imagination to the about the "roar ofthe crowd and the ~cries of tape lines. then a few plat· climatic end of the play, when both smell of the grease paint" (or vice­forms, some stairs. Now it stands as Cervantes and his whimsical knight versa); lately, the "techies" have more or less as a monument, block· errant must face their respective been steeped in the roar of power ing oft' the entire backstage area of fates. tools and the smell of wood glue as 
the theatre. ~ost people know by the last push to finish the set gears The initial problem with design­
now that thb is the set for the NO up. 
ing the show was the dilemma ofthe

Student Players production of"Man As Ithink hack to the original con· 
set. The set is in reality a sixteenth·

of La Mancha" which opens on the ception ofthe show as we visualized 
century Spanish prison; but through­

Washington stage tomorrow night. it, it is amazing how steadfastly we 
out major portions of the play it 
have held to most ofour original
must serve as an inn, a manor house, 
plans. Usually, a set will undergo a 
a thoroughfare, and various other

Joe musumeci great number ofchanges in the con·
places in the mind ofQuixote. 
struction stages and as the designer
Therefore, it had to he very adapt· 
sees how well or poorly the cast 
able, and reasonably free ofdetail.

theatre preview adapts to it. Few such changes have
There also had to be access from 
occurred in the "La Mancha" set or 
above the set, through which the In­

Now that most ofthe work is com­costumes; we have sometimes feltquisitors could enter, into what is
pleted, it is interesting for me to look that the spirit ofQuixote himselfhas ostensibly a dunge<?n. The original
back and remember how the been gently nudging us on towards 
professional production called for a

monster we have created was con­our own "impossible dream." set ofstairs to fly in from above the
ceived. It all began back in February stage; this was a little more than the While the crews have been get­when Michael Szatkowski, the direc­budget or the rafters of Washington ting ready, the cast has been grind·tor of the Student Players, came to Hall would support; a compromise ing away, honing the show to peakme with his concept for the show. If was arrived at by building a level. Joseph Rodriguez plays Cer­
only through knowledge ofthe drawbridge which would fall across vantes/Don Quixote and Bill Borac· 
traditional showstopper tune, "The to the stairs leading down into the zek portrays his cheerful sidekick,
Impossible Dream." the majority of prison area. The necessary elements Sancho Panza. Catherine Lee fills out 
you have at least a vague familiarity such as a well and a fireplace were the leads as Aldonza, the "lady" of
with the show. The tale is a play plotted and designed early in the Quixote's dreams. These are sup­
within a play; the "real" plot con­production stages. Many of the ported by a cast of nearly two dozen 
cerns the internment of Don Miguel var.ious required settings forCer· actors and actresses, who will be
de Cervantes as he awaits trial vantes' tale will be suggested by the play a range of parts, from simple
before the Spanish Inquisition. The work of the ligting designer, Cris prisoners to horses and errible
internal, musical plot is the tale that Pomasl, who has devised several knights.
Cervantes weaves to subdue his fel· special effects to make the set more
low prisoners, a tale ofa gallant "Man of La Mancha" will be adaptable.
knight, Don Quixote de La Mancha, playing tomorrow, Friday and Satur­
Cast rehearsals have been in full 

who in a delirium ofdepressed in­day nights at H p.m. in Washington
swing since February. Recently they

sanity, rides about a fictious land, Hall. Tickets are on sale at the Stu­have been joined by the orchestra,
trying to bring the virtues and dent Union Ticket Oftke in the lob· 
conducted by Bob O'Donnell.

chivalry ofa bygone era to life again. by of LaFortune for S3.50, and will 
Technical directorJim Micalleff

In the process of pursuing his be on sak each night at the door for 
began the construction of the set

quest, Quixote meets up with S4. And when the lights come up
about three weeks ago, working in

various odd lots: muleteers, gypsies, and the drawbridge comes down,
the stage area ofChautauqua until

moors, and even the "great Enchan· remember the poor fools who are 
last Sunday, when the production

ter" ofhis darkest fears. He also still washing the paint out of their 
moved permanently into Washing·

meets and falls in love with the hair. It's not as easy to get out as 
ton Hall. Since then, crews have

woman ofhis dreams, in his imagina-makeup. 

Wednesday, April20, 1983-page 7 
If the title fits 
M
any solo artists, such as Martin Briley, have trouble receiving airplay on today's highly selective, formulized radio stations be· cause they don't have a commercially appealing single or because nothing about them is unique. Consequently, the consumers don't pay any attention to them. On Briley's new album,OneNight with a Stranger, this idea is clearly illustrated because the work is a dull, repetitive set ofnine mediocre songs with a relatively small chance for any commercial popularity. 
A T noticeable problem with this album is that Briley has no charisma and relatively little personality, That which he does have often seems corny or downright strange and this has a negative ef­fect. In "Salt in My Tears," for example, he sings, "I'll sit around and drink a few more beers/ Until the memory just disappears/ 'Cos you ain't worth the salt in my tears." That might seem like a novel way of telling a woman that she's worthless, but to me it sounds simply 
stu id. 
Pat Beaudine 
record review 

In another cut, one that has the strangest background vocals in recent rock music and is titled "She's so Flexihie," he sings, "We ain't birds ofa feather/ We're not always together/ But we're in· separable/ 'Cos she's so flexible/ !love her rubba·dubha-doo," and leaves the listener totally perplexed as to what ruhba-duhba-doo means. His corny eccentricity also emerges in "Rainy Day in New York City," where he states, "It's a rainy, rainy day/ And I say she's a cloud that won't blow away," and again the audience wonders what planet Briley came from or under what rock he's been hiding. 
Although his lyrics are som..:what bizarre, they are very uninteresting because he only deals in traditional themes and never says anything unique or original. for example, eight out of the nine songs on One Nigbt with a Stranger are about relationships with women and each one has almost identical messages. In "just a ~ile Away From Here" he sings, "And she's driving me crazy/ She knows its over/ But she doesn't want to set me free/ But I won't let her make a slave out of me," while in "Maybe I've Waited too Long" he remarks, "And I ain't gonna take it anymore/ What kind offool do you take me for/ I'm giving up and I'm locking the door/ I could be wrong/ But maybe l've·waited too long." 
He also gives us the other side of the spectrum when he talks 
about~ girl who was "like no girl! had ever known" in "Dumb Love" 
and about a love that parallels no other in "She's so Flexible," and 
consequently the audience wishes he'd change the subject. 
When he does tin ally broaden his horizon for one song, he deals 
with the power offaith healers on television, and this is not exactly a 
thrilling topic for most rock tans. 

Aside from his unoriginal lyrics, the music itself is also boring be­
cause it is altogether too conservative and amateur. There is not one 
screaming guitar solo by guitarist Don Franko, nor is there one ex· 
tended synthesizer piece by Dave Koplas, and both of those ele­
ments might have saved some ofthe songs on the album. Also, with a 
similar drum beat, every song tends to sound alike and the listener is 
almost too tired from boredom to flip the album and listen to the 
second side. His conservative approach ultimately works against 
him because since the music isn't good to begin with, it can't rest on 
its commercial appeal alone. 

In other words, the album often lapses into conservative, forget­
table, and amateurish rock which totally fails to captivate the 
audience. The only redeeming quality about the album, really, is the 
album cover, but not because of the intellectually stimulating, so· 
phisticated woman pictured in the room, but because it appears that 
Martin is drowning, which means that he wouldn't be able to make 
.mvther boring album like One Night with a Stranger. 
Observer promotion 
The Obseroer Features Department proudly an­nounces the promotion of Mary Healy to the position of Assistant Features Editor. Healy, a freshman from Con­necticut, previously worked in the Production Depart­ment as a design assistant 
Sports Brieb 
lh /be I J/JS<'I"l'<'l' and /be Associated Press 
The Men's Softball Team will hold a mandatory 
meeting to announce rescheduling dates for postponed games tomorrow at 4:00 p.m. in the NVA office. All teams who have for­feited or have not turned in insurance forms have been disqualified from competition. -The Observer 
Football Ticket Applications will be dis­
tributed to all returning Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students during the week ofApril18-23 by the Athletic Ticket Office. For the first time, each student has an option ofchoosing between a S-game season ticket package or a 4-game package which excludes the Oc­tober 29 Navy game, which falls at the end ofthe 1983-84 fall break. The price of the first package will be S37_ SO while the latter will be $30.00. The deadline for returning the application is June 20, 1983. 
-The Observer 

The ND-SMC Sailing Club will hold its weekly 
meeting tonight at 6:30 in the boat house. Among the topics to be discussed will be the team's first place finish at Xavier last weekend and this weekend's trip to Ohio State. Attendance is mandatory for all club officers and those members who wish to sail at Ohio State. Members who ordered club pictures are reminded to bring their money to the meeting. Ifanyone has questions call Skip at 1193. 
The Observer 

The HolyCrossvs. Dillonsoftball championship 
game will be played Friday on Holy Cross field at 4:30 on Friday. ­
The Observer 

Farley's Finest Flag Football Team will 
face an all-star team from Saint Mary's on Saturday at 3:30 p.m. on Stepan field. The game features the Notre Dame intramural cham­pions from 1982, a 7-2 squad that defeated P.E. for the title last fall.­
The Observer 
1 

Wednesday, April20, 1983-page 8 
The Dancin' Irishwill hold an organizational meeting for all those interested in trying out for next year's squad tomorrow night at 6:30 in the Little Theater of La Fortune. -The Observer 
The NVA Golf Tournament is scheduled for 9:30a.m. on Sunday, April 24. Foursomes should call 6100 to find out their tee-off times. Also, the NVA office announced that the grad school softball captains must turn in their team records. -The Ob­server 
The Women's TennisTeamdefeated Northern lllinois yesterday by the score of 7-2. The victory gave the Notre Dame women an 8-6 season mark. -The Obsen•er. 
The ND Baseball Team lost their fifth and sixth 
straight games yesterday in a doublheader loss to Northwestern. The score of the first game was 7-S and the second was 3-0. In the first game righthander Steve Whitmyer took the loss, while in the second game the loser was senior Bill Matre. The lone bright spots for the Irish were Steve Passinault's 2-3, 2 RBI performance, and Carl Vuono's run scoring two-bagger. -The Observer. 
Ralston Purina Company agreed yesterday to sell the St. Louis Blues hockey team to a group ofCanadian busines­smen. Ralston will now take immediate steps to obtain NHL aut­horization to transfer the team to Saskatoon, Canada. The new owners plan to buld a 544-million, 18,000-seat stadium on the out­skirts ofSaskatoon. -AP. 
NHL PLAYOFFS Division Finals 
PATRICK DIVISION N.Y.Islanders vs. N.Y. Rangers Senes t1ed. 2-2 
Islanders 4, Rangers 1 Islanders 5, Rangers 0 Rangers 7. Islanders 6 Rangers 3, Islanders 1 
Ton1ght at Islanders. 8 05 
Fnday at Rangers, 8·05 
Sunday at Islanders, 7.05 
ADAMS DIVISION Buffalo vs. Boston Senes tied. 2-2 
Buffalo 7. Boston 4 
Boston 5, Buffalo 3 
Buffalo 4. Boston 3 Boston 6, Buffalo 2 Tomght at Boston, 7:35 
Fnday at Buffalo, 7:35 
Sunday at Boston, 7·05 
NORRIS DIVISION Minnesota vs. Chicago Ch1cago leads senes, 3-1 
Chicago 5, Minnesota 2 
Ch1cago 7, Minnesota 4 
Mmnesota 5, Ch1cago 1 
Ch1cago 4. M1nnesota 3 (0T) 
Tomght at Ch1cago. 8 35 
Fnday at M1nnesota, 9 05 
Sunday at Ch1cago. 8 35 
SMYTHE DIVISION Edmonton vs. Calgary Edmonton leads senes, 3-1 
Edmonton 6, Calgary 3 
Edmonton 5, Calgary 1 
Edmonton 1 0, Calgary 2 
Calgary 6, Edmonton 5 
Tomght at Edmonton, 9:05 
Friday at Calgary, 9:05 
Sunday at Edmonton, 8·05 

The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint Mary's office in the Regina Hall basement is open from noon to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday.
Classifieds 
LOST/STOLEN FROM SOUTH Need RIDERS to DAYTON for graduatiOn COME PLAY QUARTERS AT ANTOS­GREG HARTMANN--Congratula!ions on TOGATOGATOGATOGA DINING HALL. GRAY NEW BALANCE (Apr 22-24). Juhe-3725 TAL.. MORE INFO COMING!!! your Swansong"! Yes, It'S true that the
NOTICES 

BOOKBAG PLEASE RETURN actors w1ll never speak those lmes agam NOTEBOOKS. THEY ARE VERY IM­MARK FISCHER FOR UMOCI Thinking of going to the NUMBER ONE and that you Will never d~rect another Un­PORTANT CALL 3132 -NO QUES· baseball town Is anyone Interested 1n derground play--but all Will live on in our TIONS ASKED. YOU CAN EVEN KEEP Anyonecom1ng back on June 18th or 19th g01ng to ST. LOUIS for the weekend of hearts and memones and as a part of the 
Typing ALL KINDS 277-8534after 6pm TOGA 
THE BOOKS from the Washington D.C area? Want to Apnl22-24? I really need the nders, must N D. trad1t1or of art (corny as that may 
TOGA wok out a nde? Call Kathleen at 2946 cecelebrate my 21st 1n style Call D1ane at sound}! Congratulations you old man··t
1 YPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. TOGA 
7983 (Are you REALLY 47?!?) And good luck at TOGA 
Going to Chicago this weekend? I need Northwestern! Remember, I get an
TYPING, Jackie Boggs, 684-8793 TOGA
FOR RENT TOGA
a nde Fnday morn1ng If you're headed IF YOU HAVE $160 AND A WAY TO autograph when you·re nch and famous!!! my way, call Tom at 8737 NEW YORK, YOU CAN BE IN EUROPE
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO THERE'S LEO GOMEZ. THE (sex) GOD! TOGA 
BY THE DAY AFTER TOMORROW
~YPING VERY REASONABLE ·RATES 4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo all WHAT A CUERPO! LAS MUJERES IN TOGA 
I NEED A RIDE!!! FINALS OVER EARLY FOR DETAILS, CALL AIRHITCH. TOLL­
CALL 287-5162. ut111t1es 1ncluded June or Sept. Call 319· 131 TOGA 
AND GOING ACROSS RTS. 80 OR 84 TO FREE, (800) 372-1234. 
322-8735 Pa«y THE NORTHERN N.J .NYC METRO,

EARN $500 OR MORE EACH SCHOOL Interested 1n shanng 1n THE IMPOS­
OR CONNECTICUT AREAS? UMOC UMOC UMOC UMOC 
':':AR FLEXIBLE HOURS MONTHLY 6 bedroom house 4rent completly SIBLE DREAM? Need ushers and t1cket· 
TOGATOGATOGA PAYMENT FOR PLACING POSTERS furn1sed at 806 n st1o1us also secUity takers for Thursday. Fnday. and/or
DESPERATELY WANT RIDE LEAVING 
LATE SAT 5/7 OR EARLY SUN 5/8

)N CAMPUS BONUS BASED ON alarm system connected to pol1ce for fur­IF YOU'RE INTO SPEED or enjoy ex­Saturday niles. Call Carol at 6169 (esp 7 
CALL PETE AT 6605 

·-.''=SULTS. PRIZES AWARDED AS lher mformal•on call1 362-7160 excellent ercise m the sprmg alf, s•gn up tor the AN pm to m1dn11e.) NELL 800-526-0883 cond1tron pnce negotiable TOSTAL CHARITY 5K RUN thiS week 
dunng d1nner 1n Jhe d1n1ng halls. Th1s 3 1-CONN. CLUB HAPPY HOUR!! We Siam No Dunks II ' !PING $ 75/page Fast & accurate. Summer School? Apts. tor Rent near N 0 mlle race will be held th1s Saturday. There FREE BEER!!! YES AMERICA THIS IS ITII -<II Dan. 282-1680 Ut•ht1es Pd. Less Gas ph.2720261 IS a $3 00 reg•strat1on fee With all Everyone from Conn. welcome. Fnday. IT IS NOW THE TIME FOR THE MOST
[!oR SALE 

proceeds g01ng to S1ster Manta·s School. Apnl 22 1n Lyons basement, 4-7pm AWESOME DISPLAY OF BASKETBALL ':trt lime or Summer·Energy department SUMMER RENT-3 BDRM HOUSE. Medals for 1st-61th men & women. ALL Sponsored by the ND Alumn1 Club of TALENT (OR LACK OF iT) EVER TO :les, Energy Aud1tmg, L S Ayers 291-NEXT TO CAMPUS. CHEAP CALL 8657 FINISHERS ELIGIBLE FOR PRIZES Connecticut (CT ID requested) GRACE THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS. 
House for sale, Umvers•ty He1ghts. 3

'JO Ext 2028 OR8676JOHN donated by Athletes Foot COME OUT SATURDAY, APRIL 23 TO 
bedrooms, $12.000 total. Immediate 

M1ke VanDerbeck. THE BOOKSTORE FINAL FOUR 
Terms. 319-3228735, Pat 

-ardlng horses 1 m1 from N D. Covered 4 BEDROOM HOUSE. GOOD SAFE Number 1 racquetball player Congrats COURT, LOCATED BEHIND THE ACC ena. 277-5828 (nng 12x) AREA, FURNISHED. LIKE-NEW INTE­on w1nnmg the tournament BUT the AT2:30 PM AND WATCH THE WSND­
FOR SALE dY OWNER Near Notre

RIOR $400/ mo & ut1l. MUST SEE 287-question rema1ns, when w1il you stop WE SLAM NO DUNKS BASKETBALL
Dame 2-bedroom bnck house, fenced 

.. >4QC IS BACK!!!! 3530 Day. 233-9947 N1ght dodg•ng me TEAM TAKE ON THAT INCREDIBLE 
yard Many extras $37.000 Days 232-TOGA 
JIM RESTLESS SHADE OF MOOSE 
2031. ask for Sylv•a. Other t1mes 288-TOGA My Dearest Sleepy-Head. Come on
fTN LOGAN CENTER VOLUN· Faculty of Grad Students 4 Bedroom CONTROL-THE OBSERVER RIGHT 
6134 or 239-7771 TOGA
'1-:'=RS. Rec th1s week on SUNDAY ln­House, fully furntshed wtth washer/dryer BEFORE THE SEMI-FINALS OF
home w1th me! Prom1se you beautiful
TOGA
•tc•3d of Sat To be held at HOLY CROSS N•cel $400/month 288-31 09 BOOKSTORE, IN THE MOST HEATED
beacnes. lots of sunsn1ne and all the P1na ''•'.LL near the lake from 1 00 to 3·30 PM RIVALRY SINCE THE BATTLE OF KEN­TOGA 
Coladas your heart des1res! Your crazy lvnember REC ON SUNDAY FOR NEED A CHEAP PLACE TO STORE TUCKY. BE THERE, ALOHA!
TOGA 
little Pucho ··.GAN CENTER!!!!' Please e«end!!! YOUR STUFF OVER THE SUMMER ? 
TOGA
TICKETS 

TOGA
PLEASE CALL MARIE 277-0487 LEGS. Hope you have a MIGHTY FINE birthday Don t forget room p1cks are not 

TOGA 
ATIENTION OBSERVERfTESIII 5-BEDROOM STUDENT RENTAL $400 The Annual Observer-WSND 
far away 1f you re plann1ng on movmg 1n.
Please Help! Need One LOWER ARENA TOGATOGATOGA
233·6779 Hoops Extravaganza will be held
,I. LOST/FOUND TOGA 
we owe you for the last lew weekends. SATURDAY, APRIL 23 AT 2:30p.m. be­
_______..J TICKET for GRADUATION EXERCISES TOGATOGATOGATOGA 
XOXOXOXO. Your lavonte sextupletsTO GRAD STUDENT FOR FALL. FUR­hind the ACC. If you like to dribble or just ·-Will trade one upper arena ticket or Will P S Never on a weekn1ght, ever aga1n?
,_(':3T One Patr of Bronze/Brown metal buy Please call Debbie at 234-7961
NISHED. SPACIOUS 3-BEDROOM abuse opponents, then be there. (even
1r 11ed GLASSES. Lost 1n the vtcmtty of Thanks!
HOME. SW SIDE OF SO BEND ON boneheaas are welcome.)AN FORD lobby after the Mr Stanford 
ROUSSEAU S NOBLE SAVAGES #1 
BUS LIN $400/MO.. ALL UTILITIES IN· Team w1th the fans!!! Watch out

otest on Fnday Apnl 8 They have a HELP' Last member of good Catholic LEAVING SOUTH BEND TO SEE ALL 
CL SMALL DEPOSIT 287·3073 AMERICA NEED ADVENTUROUS Bookstore XIII because the SAVAGES

''lh sentimental value bemg that Without fam1ly (I.e. large) needs SEVEN gradua­
TRAVELER TO SHARE EXPENSES 3-5 w1ll be back· only B1gger. Better. Meaner, QUESTION TO SUBLET 1 BEDROOM APART­
I. t :m I cannot seeI! If found please call or tion t1ckets W1ll pay $$$ Call M1ke at MONTHS.LIVE CHEAP;MY CON· and Smarter'!! Great Job Tom. Bnan. MIC­WHAT ISTHE ONLY THING FUNNIER 
• ·Jrn them to J1m at 8708-07. 329·30 1159 after 11 pm
MENT, GREAT LOCATION ON 1nforcl (REWARD) 
VERTED VAN. DEPARTING MAY CALL hael. Ed. and J1mmy!!! You re THAN A BOMB THREAT? 
RIVESIDE DR COMPLETL Y FUR­FOR INFO 288-4255. ASK FOR BRIAN AWESOME Guys!!! ANSWERPLEASE HELP! II NEED GRADUATIONNISHED. FOR SUMMER MONTHS A PUBLIC BOWEL MOVEMENT

'UNO ON SOUTH QUAD: Cas10 llve­TTICKETSIII Call Snern at 2965. Will pay STTRAIGHTS ONLY PLEASE 
CALL SEAN 289-9309 JEN.

h.lctlon watch. Has tmttals O'l the back $ THANKS FOR LETIING ME BE YOUR Amy Stephan. 
~Aue. wtth Stiver watchband. Call Marty at Usher out Gentle Thursday will a yell. 
FIRST PERSONAL IVE BEEN FINALLY. some respect!'!!
11122. HELP!!!!Need Graduat•on T•ckets Will That's right. The Campus Scream is MEANING TO DO THIS FOR A LONG You Know Who 
WANTED pay$$$$$$ Call M1ke 1764 here to stay. Begins tomorrow night at TIME. BUT YOU KNOW HOW SLOW I
$40 REWARD! Green bookbag lost 1n about midnight. On the North Quad. 
CAN BE TELL BETH YOU REALLY MEL 
<-outh D•mng Hall Desperately need the Yell your lights outt _)ntents to ftmsh school -Please call Bob NEED RIDE TO LU. FOR LITTLE FIVE­
MY BUTTER DOES THIS SOUND LIKE YOU??? JUST BECAUSE Gary Trudeau's Doonesbury sabba11cal
?77-6880 APR.22 JOE 1154 Mike Heineman IS the Ugly Man On
PERSONALS H B. has left you no reason to gel out ofbed in
Campus. One look (1f you can stand 11) 
the morning. You eagerly reach lor the
c~.JST· MAN'S WATCH AT MUD VOL· Wanted Backpacks Will conv1ce you Blah' lck! He s UGLY PANDORA'S BOOKS SPECIAL OF 
paper each day before you remember:
LtoYBALL COURTS GIVEN TO Do you have an extenor-frame backpack Vote M1ke He1neman lor UMOC. He 11 feel THE WEEK. ALL DRAMA AND there's no Zonker inside. The con.ics
'lSOREKEEPER PLEASE CALL 8317 you would l1ke to sell? Maybe two or better about h1mself SOCIOLOGY 50/ OFF. WE PAY CASH 
page appears as a gray sheet of unin­
three? Call Jeb, J1m, or Jim (but not Ed) at THE IMPOSSIBLE DREAM COMES TO FOR YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS. 
telligible prallle 

•·. ss1ng bookbag, please return law 8641 Thank you NOTRE DAMEIII The Notre Dame Stu­LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS If BUYING HOURS 1:00-4:00, MON.­If so. do someth1ng about 1t. Develop your 
hoks and notes to law school. no ques­dent Players present the mag1c of MAN you want to send a spec1al Thanks for THURS., 937 S. BEND AVE. own answer to the shortage of ~ntelhgent
Jns asked or$ reward ask for Mike R. 1982 Female grad student look•ng for OF LA MANCHA, com1ng to the stage of commg to VISII me·· to your hi s1b. or even 1f comiC strips today Subm•t your 1deas for
roommate to share apt. m Ch1cago. Washington Hall on April 21 ,22, and 23 your hi Sib d1dn I come to VISit and you TO THE REDHEAD IN 223 l JST-PAIR OF LADY'S BROWN LEAT­Please call (312) 687-8723 afte 7 p.m at 8 p.m. T1ckets go on sale Wednesday, would like to send a little memento to him, 
Forget about lunch today. and every a campus com~ str1p to The Whatever happened to the Iunny pages?" Com•c
'->,OR GLOVES W/TAN FUR LINING. April 13, at the Student Umon tiCket t-sh1rts w•ll be on sale for a reduced pnce day C.E Stnp Contest. The Observer, P.O Box Q.
.. •ST ON FRIDAY BETWEEN BADIN WANTED: ENGLISH TEACHER FOR off•ce. Pnces are $3.50 1n advance and $4 of $4.00 at tne STUDENT ACTIVITIES Questions? Call Margaret, 239-5303.
!ILL & ENGINEERING AUD. OR IN PRIVATE LESSONS. 5 HOURS WK. at the door There are only three mghts OFFICE, 1st floor Lafortune LIL SIBS Olga u~GINEERING AUD. CALL DARLENE CALL EVENINGS FROM 9-11 PHONE thiS year, so get your tickets early: LIL SIBS LIL SIBS LIL SIBS Olga LJ80. 234-0141, EXT 339 remember what happened to Cabaret Olga Foo-Foo-Town: Do you feel lucky? 
tickets! Don't miss the bestshow of the GUESS WHAT? YOU CAN BUY 3 LIL Olga Duck l JST: Gold bracelet w1th charm around RIDE NEEDED to Cleveland wknd of season-MAN OF LA MANCHA!Ill SIBS T·SHIRTS FOR $10.00, IF YOU Olga ' '1nner or Grace, Friday, Apr. 8. If found 23rd. Call 239-5918, leave message for BUY THEM SEPARATELY, THEY COST Olga 
T1mM. Get the Porn out of the hbranes! $4.00 EACH!! A party 1n herself!!! MARK FISCHER FOR UMOC! 
l''3a~.c-ai~-~~O (SMC). Reward. 

The Observer Wednesday, April20, 1983-page 9 

White Sox, Luzinski defeat New Yorkers 
CHICAGO (AP) -Greg Luzinski drove in five runs with a pair of homers to power the Chicago White Sox and Richard Dotson to a 13-3 victory over the New York Yankees last night. 
Luzinski hit a three-run homer, his first of the season, offJay Howell, 0­I, in a four-run first inning. The Sox' designated hitter then walloped a two-run shot in the eighth. 
Dotson, 1-1, allowed three hits and walked six over seven innings. Rudy Law opened the Chicago first by drawing a walk and scored 
continued/rom page 12 
Also providing depth at tlanker is senior Mike Favorite. Favorite, 6-4, 190-pounds, was slated to start the Michigan game last fall but was injured a few days before the game. 
The returning starter at split end is junior Joe Howard. Howard, 5-9, 167-pounds, had 28 catches for 524­yards, 2 for touchdowns, last fall. 
"Joe is having a good spring," remarks Lichtenberg. "He has great body control and runs the pass routes very well. Although small in size, he is one of the toughest receivers on the team." 
Pushing Howard is sophomore Milt Jackson. Jackson, 6-0, 170­pounds, had three receptions for 47­yards last fall. He started two games including the opener against Michi­gan. 
"Milt has gotten better and better 
each day," notes Lichtenberg, "He is 
sure to see a tremendous amount of 
playing time." 
Also available at split end is senior Mike Viracola and junior Mike Ric­herson. 
When the Irish return in the fall there will be another face in the crowd, that ofAlvin Miller. Miller, 6­-i, 220-pounds was the Parade Magazine Player of the Year. 
Lichtenberg says, "Alvin Miller will provide a new dimension in that he is tall and very fast. He will be a factor in our wide receivers, but I think it will take some time." 
"We have a long way to go as far as the little things go," comments Lich­tenberg, "but the attitude and effort has been good this spring. I think having good competition for the starting positions has improved the players because no one has a starting on singles by Tony Bernazard and Harold Baines before Luzinski homered. Baines also singled in a run in the second. 
Dotson did not allow a hit until the fourth when Steve Kemp hit his third homer after Dave Winfield drew a leadoffwalk. 
The White Sox wrapped it up with five runs in the sixth with the big blow a two-run pinch single by Greg Walker. Carlton Fisk, Bernazard, and Rudy Law each singled in a run. 
The Yankees picked up their last 

run in the seventh. 
• • • Bavaro 
spot sewn up." 
by fellow sophomore Van Pearcy. 
Pearcy, 6-2, 186-pounds, had 8 
catches for 64-yards last fall. Pearcy 
is not participating in spring 
practice due to his involvement on 
the track team. 
"Pearcy's speed allows us to use 
him at either flanker or split end. He 
provides us with a deep threat," 
comments Lichtenberg. 
Sweep over Butler 

Men's tennis teatn continues roll 
By MARK B.JOHNSON 
Sports Writer 
Although forced to battle near­freezing temperatures, a change of courts, and a serious lack of light, Coach Tom Fallon's men's tennis team, fresh off a hot weekend, turned the heat on Coach Nick Davis' Butler Bulldogs yesterday af­ternoon. as the Irish raised their record to 19-9 with a 9-0 shutout. 
Despite chilling temperatures and cool winds, Fallon and Davis decided to brave the weather and let their teams begin singles competi­tion outside at Courtney Tennis Center. 
Although dropping a string offour games during his second set, senior No. l captain Mark McMahon raised his overall record to 16-12, as he regained control to down Butler's Larry Levan, 6-2, 6-4. Still boasting the team's best individual record, sophomore Mike Gibbons earned victory No. 21 against only 7 losses at his No. 2 spot as he contained Demi Allen 6-3, 6-2. 
Freshman joe Nelligan seemed to have more trouble keeping warm than defeating his No. 3 counterpart, as he played to a 6-2, 7-5 victory over Joe Gentry. By doing so, Nel­ligan raised his record to 15-12. Sophomore John Novatny con­tinued his winning ways at his fourth spot, as he breezed by Alex Kor, 6-2, 6-3, to stay even with the team in the win-loss column at 19-9. 
While continuing to play well, sophomore Tom Pratt added anoth­er victory to his previous 8-6 mark, as he worked his way to a 7-5, 6-3 win over Bulldog Bill Edmunds. While maintaining his hot streak, junior Tim Noonan rolled over Jeff Hughes, 6-1, 6-2, to add to his im­pressive record of 18·6 and to lock up the match for the Irish. 
As the temperature dropped al­most as much as Butler's chance of winning lhe match, the teams opted to play the doubles matches indoors under tht: North Dome of the ACC. 
Although warmer, the indoor courts presented the players with yet another problem -a lack ofsuf­ficient lighting, as only one bank of 
lights  was  operational.  Not  
harrowed  by  the  lights,  or  lack  
thereof,  the  teams  warmed  up  

before starting the doubles competi­tion. 
While raising their mark to 12-1 I, Notre Dame's No. I team of Noonan and Novatny overcame some minor errors, as they dominated Levan and Allen, 6-3, 6-1, in a match that saw an inter~ing variation ofshots, includ­ing one behind-the-back by Noonan. 


Even with a few inconsistencies, McMahon and fellow senior Paulld­zik patiently outlasted Gentry and Kor, 6-4, 6-4, to augment their 14-7 mark. 
In his first shot at varsity doubles play, sophomore Paul Najarian teamed with Gibbons to bury Ed­munds and Hughes, 6-0, 6-1 and complete the Irish sweep. 
"As a team. we are looking strong, and now we have a lot of momen­tum," stated Najarian. 
Fallon and his squad will need to keep the momentum rolling, as a strong Kalamazoo team and even stronger Wisconsin team come to South Bend to challenge the Irish this afternoon and tomorrow. Ac­tion begins at 3 p.m. today and I p.m. tomorrow, as the Irish attempt to avenge last season losses to both squads. 
Celtics and Suns open playoffs with. victories 
Bird leads way 

BOSTON (AP) -Larry Bird scored eight of his game-high 26 points in the final 3 minutes last night, rallying the Boston Celtics to a 103-95 victory over the Atlanta Hawks in their National Basketball Association playoff opener. 
Bird, given a brief rest early in the fourth period, came back to rally the Celtics after the Hawks had charged from an eight-point deficit to a four­point lead. 
With the score tied for the sixth time in the final period, Bird put Bos­ton in .front 89-87 with a pair offree throws. 
Quinn Buckner, who had tied the score at 87-87 with his first two points of the game, hit an open shot to put Boston ahead 91-87. 
The Celtics held off the desperate Hawks for the opening victory in the best-of-three playoff. 
Robert Parish scored 18 ··points, and Kevin McHale 12, including 8 in the final pedod, for the Celtics. 
The  Hawks  were  led  by  Dan  
Roundfield  with  24  points,  
Dominique  Wilkins  with  21  and  
Johnny Davis with 18.  

Lucas shines 

PHOENIX, Ariz. (AP) -Dennis Johnson scored 28 points and Maurice Lucas added 12 of his I 7 in the second half as the Phoenix Suns held on to beat the Denver Nuggets 
121-108 in last night's openinggame of a National Basketball Association playoff series. 
The best-of-three Western Con­

ference mini-series now shifts to 
Denver for Thursday night. 
Phoenix, which lost four of five 
games to the Nuggets during the 
regular season, survived the game­
high 32 points from Kiki Van­

deweghe and 25 from Dan Issei. 
But the Suns limited Denver forward Alex English -the NBA's leading scorer this season with a 
28.4 point-per-game average -to 16 points and only six in the second half. Phoenix also recorded l 7 steals, setting a club playoff record. 
Vandeweghe had poured in 12 of his 18 first -half points in th~ first period while Issei chipped in .1 0 to giving the Nuggets an early 9-point lead. 
Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
If you think ltakm I()( Kl is just spaghetti :md piu~t. we\e got a mouth onening experienn· \\·ailing I( 1r you l'\WY \\ednestby night from -):!MI 10 IX! p.m. at ·nw l.mking <;h-;s Kl'staur:mt iP till' South Bend \l;UTiott 
~Jtroducing \kuna \larriott ·s -a h11u11 guslu ;UTay of ;mtiiU'>ta. mim·strolll'. lt•ttucim·. cacciatorl'. h'>agill'. p:L'>ta :md I( ntr satk'l'S. dll'<.'Se. hrt•atb :md dt·sst·rts 
It s .tll Sl'lll'd up in a ti:stiH' lttli:m atm1 •sphere -· dlt'<.'kl'rl'd tahll'cloths. a strolling musici:m -­the \mrks. 
All mu em l'at ti•r S(l l)-) Childrl'n undl'r 12 --,-S~ q.:; 
Reservations Appreciated 
.~ 1'/l'!'t/1'1'(1 1 

South Bt·tKI/.,\\aniott tfottl. 
12) ~. St. Joseph St.. South Hend (219) 234-2000 
.. 
----·------­
---------------------------------··---­
The Observer Wednesday, April 20, 1983 -page 10 
• • . us 


Woman's Bookstore 
Van Ort and Pneumothorax roll 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Oreos while Maureen Milota and keep Real Farley Women ... from Assistant .\jJOrts Editor Shari Matvey had five baskets apiece. dropping a 21-14 battle to TBA. Another seed, We Ain't So Bad, Cindy Short led TBA with eight bas· For the first time since the 19H3 had a harder time defeating Double kets, while Mary Garvey contributed Women's Bookstore ·tournament Trouble. The game was close early six. However, Real Farley began, there wasn't at least one 2 J.3 as We Ain't So Bad had shooting Women ... actually was done in by game. Of course, there was a 21-4 problems, but slowly it pulled away its own shooting problems, making and a 21-6 game, hut those were the before beating Double Trouble, 21-just 14-of-69 shots. Mary Weigand only lopsided scores of the day as 11. Carrie Luepke was the leading and Patty Hackett were the major the final eight teams were decided. scorer for the winne1.; with seven culprits, hitting just 3-of-31 between 
The first day oftough competition baskets. Double Trouble helped out them. was marked by some marathon the cause by making only I I ofits 57 So now the 60-team field has been games as the cold weather took its shots. cut to eight. The quarter-finals will toll on the shooting performances. Who Cares, led by Stephanie Kor­be held on tomorrow at Saint Mary's However, there were also some of check's eight points, advanced with beginning at 4:00. However, two of the best performances ofthe tourna­a 21-14 win over Annette the games will probably be held ment. Buford .... They were joined by the today or early tomorrow because of 
Kahlua and the Cremes scored I 5 other seeded team, Last Drool ..., scheduling conflicts. points in its losing effort against which blew past the Blow-offs, 21­Negligence, but was outscored hy 11. Clare Henry led Last Drool ... Laura Hanson of Negligence who with seven baskets, while Cristina Women's Bookstore scored I 7. Her total was the highest Weinmann and Debbi Hensley individual point total of the tourna­added six each. Yesterday's Resuns ment. The two best games of the after­
Another outstanding pt;rfor-noon featured Leather and Lace Stepan 1 Oreos 21, Cameras 6
mance was turned in hy Missy Van against Rim Wreckers, and TBA 
Negl1gence 21. Kahlua and the Cremes 15 

Ort of Pneumothorax. The Saint against Real Farley Women .... Mary's basketball star was accurate In the first game, Leather and Lace 
Stepan 2 

on I 0 of her I I shots as Pneumot­and Rim Wreckers tried to see who 
TBA 21. Real Farley Women 3 horax mauled its third straight op­could miss the most shots and win. Last Drool 21. Btow-offs 8 ponent, Chippedales, hy a 21-4 Leather and Lace could. Although 
Stepan 3

score. Van Ort has now made an in­missing 76 shots ( 21-of-8H ), it held 
We A1n't So Bad 21. Double Trouble 11 credible 23-of-25 shots in her last off Rim Wreckers, 21-17, in the best Pneumothorax 21. Chippendales 4 
two games. game of the tournament. Cathy 
All four ~ceded teams joined Schafer led the winners with 12 bas­Stepan6 Who Cares 21. Anne Buford 7
Negligence and Pneumothorax in kets in 33 shots. Dolly Duffy of Rim 
Leather and Lace 21. A1m Wreckers 17 the t1nal eight. Wreckers wasn't quite as sharp, hit· 
Oreos breezed to its second ting one of I 'i shots. Duffy's perfor­
Today's Games

straight win as it dumped Cameras, mance wasn't too bad when SMC1 Oreos vs TBA (4J
21-6. The winners used their huge compared with 'Vlartha Einhorn's 1­
Who Cares vs Leather and Lace 14 45)

height advantage to dominate the of-24 performance for Leather and boards and start a number ot Lace. fasthreak opportunities. Dava New­Kendra Erven's six baskets and 14 SMC2 
Last Drool Uvulas vs. Negligence 14J man made six of her I 0 shots to lead rebounds weren't good enough to We A1n t So Bad vs Pneumothoraxl4 451 
Wittenburg 
continuedjro111 page 12 Tilt: ;'l.otrt: iJame record now Saturday, respt:ctively Bmh art: con­climbs to 'i-'i overall and 4-2 in the ference opponents and are among 
was hard to play real tough after 'VIlA. the strongest teams in the Midwest. playing such a tough game on Satur­The game marked the return to Wooster has been the surprise day (against W t:sleyan )." grass for tlll: Irish who have been team of the year as it has emerged as 
Bdort· they tdl aslt:ep, Smith and playing and practicing all year on the a threat to perennial power~ Ohio Pearsall scored three goals each to turf of Cartier Field. O'Leary hopes Wt·sleyan and Denison. In fact. it up­kad the tt:am in scoring. .Justin Dris­that the weather will be kind and al­set Denison earlier this vear. coll and Pace contributed two goals. low the team to finish· out the year 
"Wooster has a really good
while Trocchi, Joe Franklin, Mike on the real stuff. 
goalie," says O'Leary. "That meansQuinn, Hart, Rettino, Kevin Rooney, "It's easier to pick up the hall on that we have to keep their scoreBrian McKeon, and Tom Grote the turf. hut it's also real tough on down because our score probablyadded one apiece. your knees and legs," said O'Leary. 
won't he as high ao; it usually is." 
Pat Poletti was tough in the goal "The grass is good for our hall con­all game long as he blocked nine trol offense." The preseason choice as the best 
Wittenberg shots. It was Poletti's But O'Leary has more on his mind team in the Midwest, Denison is second game in a row that he than playing surfaces as. he leads his trying to remain close to league shutout the opponent in the second team to Wooster College and leader Ohio Wesleyan after getting 
half. Denison College on Thursday and upset by Wooster. 
The Brick Throwers were tested somewhat by Armed and Dan­gerous ... but still managed to come away with a 21-1 ~ win. The I Oth seeded Brick Throwers were keyed by junior Greg Russell's nine points. 
The key for the Brick Throwers was once again a running style of play and strong rebounding. At least halfofthe Brick Thrower points yes­terday came on offensive rebounds. 
Jack Burke and Tim Andree both got 7 points as 3rd seed Bad to the Bone beat Team 305,21-12. Andree also pulled down to nine rebounds to lead all players. 
WEBB's Encore had something of a tough time with Boom-Boom Man­cini ... before finally winning 21­
18. Bob Keenahan continues to be the main cog for the 13th seeded WEBB's, this time scoring 8 points. Mark Mazanec also added five for the winners. 
Joe andJohn Meyer scored six and 
five points, respectively, to lead Nut­
meggers Are Back Again over the 
upstart Fun Bunch Five, 21-19, in 
one of the day's closer games. 

Don Franko also put in 7 for Nut­meggers while Joe Meyer pulled down a game high 16 rebounds. Rick DiBernado's I0-19 shooting and 14 rebounds weren't quite enough for Fun Bunch. 
The surprising Nutmeggers are the 16th seed in the tournament and, thus, get the unenviable task of facing top seed Double Decker Oreo Cookie in today"s ~ixth round. 
Scott Grooms hit on 10 of !6 shots to spur I 5th seeded Cash Amberg and the Country Boys over Four Jerks and A Dribbler, 21-12. Rick Naylor provided the rebounding spark for the winners, garnering nine. 
BOOKSTORE BRIEFS -The 16 remaining teams have been seeded 1-16 with I playing 16, 2 playing I 5, etc.... Today the sixth round will be played. Check the graphic on page I 0 for pairings, time, and place. 
Bookstore XII results 
Yesterday's Results 
Stepan I B1gger, Better. Smoolher. Drunker. & Ou1cker Than Average over P1g Bag by 7 
Stepan 3 Double Decker Oreo Cookie over F1nal 512 Or Bust by 12 
Stepan 5 Mercury Moms Chose Coke Over Peps1 over Play At Your Own R1sk by 4 
Stepan? Nutmeggers Are Back Agam over Fun Bunch 5 by 2 Bookstore9 
B.O. & The Bounc1ng Balls over Yank .by B WEBB's Encore over Boom Boom by 3 NEBO's IV over Team #257 by 11 Even-Less Jacksonless F1ve over Joe Jakubik by 7 
Bookstore 10 Macn s Preferred Stock over Ralph1e by B US over 3 Beers 2 Grape Neh1s Please by 1 B SWC over Pangloss by 6 Bad To The Bone over Soc1al Retards by 9 
Lyons11 John Shoe & The Sneakers over Ja's Men by 13 Cash Amberg & The Country Boys over 4 Jerks by9 
Lyons 12 Brtck Throwers over Armed & Dangerous M-21 Ex­plosive B-Ball Unit by 4 TeqUIIIa White L1ghtmng Ill over 4 Guys Who .by 
10 
continuedfrom page 12 

the admiration his family has for Notre Dame. Phelps and Assistant Coach Pete Gillen, who initiated contact with Popson, have remained confident in the past few days, despite the Carolina speculation. 
Conflicting signals have arisen during the past few months. Popson has been quoted as mentioning how important playing time would he tQ him, and the addition of Wolf to a Carolina front line which already in­cludes 6-9 Brad Daugherty and 6-10 Sam Perkins may give the Tar Heels sufficient depth. However, he is 
• • • Popson 
reported to believe that he could step in and contribute anyway. And Carolina's track record of the past few years might haveswayed him. 
Larry Koretz, Popson's 6-8 O'Reilly frontline-mate who is headed for LaSalle College, has said that Popson has decided on North Carolina. While Phelps spent last night in northeastern Pennsylvania, the entire Carolina contingent remained in Chapel Hill. They probably will not be able to go to Kingston tomorrow, as the area is snowed in. 
-The Obserl'er 

NBA PLAYOFFS Preliminary Round 
EASTERN CONFERENCE New Jersey vs. New York 
Tomghl at New Jersey. 8 
Tomorrow at New York. 8 
Sunday at New Jersey. 3 30 
(winner plays Philadelphia) 
Boston vs. Atlanta Boston leads senes. 1-0 
Boston 103. Atlanta 95 Fnday at Atlanta. TBA Sunday at Boston. 1 
(winner plays Milwaukee) 
WESTERN CONFERENCE Seallle vs. Portland 
Ton1ght at SeaHie. 11 
Fnday at Portland, 11 30 
Sunday at Seattle. 3 30 
(winner plays Los Angeles) 
Phoenix vs. Denver Phoentx leads senes, 1-0 
PhoeniX 121. Denver 108 
Tomorrow at Denver. 9 35 
Sunday at Phoentx, 9 
(winner plays San Antonio) 

Let's Give It A Try 
SUBOJqht at 

For Notre Dame, St. Mary's, and Holy Cross Every Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday Evening 9 · 12pm Free Delivery · Every V2 hour 5 Sub Minimum Order Drivers carry under $15.00 



Ihe~~================================== 
1

~~4()lCJL~====================~====W=e=d=n=es=d=ay=,=A=p=ri=l=20=,=1=9=8==3=p=a=g=e=l=l
Bloom County 


The Daily Crossword 

©1982 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
knior Bar a-~~ 
0~ LUNCHES! ~~~'-~----'
~-~~.~..__....~ 

Enjoy your lunchtime breQk Qt Senior 8Qr evety Thutsd~Q.Y and Ftiday from 11:00 till:OO Subs (toastbeef, meatbull, &hatn ) 

YOUR HONOR.' 1 OICI IT 
'0\l/S£ Hf. CAME. CN£R ON£ 
Nl(ffi AND SHAV£17 THE WOF!DS -KICK M£ " ONTIJ 111£ 
BACK Of MY CJ\T ''FRW." I'M 5UIN6 FOR $ 3 Mll.UON 
AI'W A N£W CAT. 
'/4.., 

IJf. e£TT"E lluftfiY. T"HIS' Cou &-D ee A PtllTTI!.R­or '-IFir liND C•E.ATH. 

ACROSS  29 Describing  
1 Too late•  Arabs  
5 Fight  32 Make  
10 Latvian  2mailable  
14 Corrida  33 Shellfish  
beast  34 Scottish  
15 Chatter  negative  
16 Uncomlort·  36 At any risk  
able  41  -Angeles  
17 Bysome  42 Philippine  
means  43 C:ertain  
20 Be under  pillar  
the weather  44 Tanager  
21 Cattle,  46 'T'horough·  
once  fare  
22 Broadway  48 City laws:  
light  .abbr.  

23 Bacchanalia 49 Attired beverage 50 lots 24 Baseball 52 Mare's 
clubs baby 26 Fit in 53 Relative c1f ante 
The solution to yesterdav's Observer crossword puzzle was unavailable atpress time. 


Berke Breathed 
JU[)6£ WAPNE.R BAIL.IFF... ALWAYS KN().&JS KICK 111£5£ HOW 10 DE.CID£ 1WO NUTS 
1H£5E VWCI\T£ IN1H€ BUTT. CA5£5. 
t
\ 


Jeb Cashin 
David). Adams 
56 Using lair 27 Greek means or magistrate foul 28 Rent 
60 Passage, 29 Young in anatomy codfish 61 Love 30-ear, and 
greatly out... 62 Otherwise 31 Social 63 Electrical group 
64 David's 37 Beginning daughter 38 Empty 65 Luge 39 Uses poor 
judgment DOWN 40 Deck item Greek meet· 45 Philanthro· ing place pists 
2 Anderson 46 Killer of TV 47 Powder 3 CitySSW base 
of Moscow 49 Poisonous 4 Hitshow snake 5 Espionage 50 Legend 6 Hag 51 Cough, to 7 Uncommon attract 8 -loss for attention 
words 52"-Here to 
9 Ballpoint Eternity" 1 0 Most recent 53 Vote 11 Resound 54 Soared 12 At one time 55-out 13 Son of Odin (made do) 18 Related 56 School 19 Punctual subject: 23 Custom abbr. 24 Hit hard 57 Krazy­25 Oriental 58 Room in 
servant a harem 26 Play with 59 Legal pins matter 

Campus 
•9 
a.m.-4 p.m. -Academic Apparel, For faculty and graduating seniors, Hammes Bookstore 

• 
3 p.m. ~ Tennis, NO Men vs. Kalamazoo, Courtney Courts 

• 
p.m. -Lecture, "Research in Muscular Dystrophy, One Biochemists Approach," Claudia Kent, 204 SMC Science Hall 

•4:15 
p.m. -Lecture, "Computers in Physics Research," Prof. Gerald B. Arnold, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Military Review, ROTC Parade, Green Field 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Adaptions to the Deep Sea: Contrasts Between the Typical Deep Sea and the Hydrothermal Vent Communities," Prof. George N. Somero, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•6:30 
p.m. -Video Screening, 124 Center for Social Concerns 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Ecclesiastica History of The Tridentine Reformation," Prof. Eric Cochrane, 122 Hayes Healy 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Wages and Employment in International Recessions Recent Latin American Experience," Victor Tokman, 1OS Law School 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Gaska String Quartet , Jan Ownings. Little Theatre, S3 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, James Reston, Library Auditorium 

•8:15 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Roles of the Family and the State in Sex Education," Dr. Janet Smith, 11 5 O'Shaughnessy Hall Sponsored by Thomas More Society 


: T.V. Tonight ' 
7p.m. 16 M*A*S0 H 
22 Laverne and Shirley 
28 Joker's Wild 
34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 
7:30p.m. 16 All in the Family 
22 Family Feud 
28 Tic Tac Dough 
34 Straight Talk 
8p.m. 16 Real People 
22 Zorro and Son 
28 The Fall.Guy 
34 In Performance at The White House 
8:30p.m. 22 Square Pegs 
9p.m. 16 Facts of Life 
22 CBS Wednesyday Night Movie 
28 Ryan's Four 
9:30p.m. 16 Taxi 
The Far Side 

"Uh-oh! ... Stuart blew his air sac!" 
.. 
... 
.. 
~--------------~----~---------~-------~-----~--­
Wednesday, April20, 1983-page 12
SRorts 
Down to 16 

US near perfect in Monday action 
ByJEFF BLUMB Seventh seed US had absolutely no rebounds each to help the Mercury Sports Writer problem with Three Beers and Two Morris cause. Grape Nehis Please, blitzing them Number one seed Double Decker
.. And then there were 16. Ah yes, 21-3 in a game that took only 14 continued to roll through the 1 sweet 16. Sixteen teams still have a minutes to play. tournament, this time knocking off chance to be Bookstore XII Cham­US shot an amazing 21-26 from Final 512 or Bust by a 21-9 score. pion. the field, while limiting Three Beers Bill Varner's I 1 points on 14 shots to just 16 shots for the game. and 6 rebounds paced Double Deck­Freshman Chris Schneider con­er. Stacey Toran, back in action after tinues to key the US attack. This time a one day hiatus, and Mansel Carter the first team all-Iowa player sank also notched 4 a piece. eight of nine and pulled down six Sophomore Dave Beamish rebounds to lead all players in both stepped in yesterday to replace departments. Casey Newell, who suffered a The tournament field was cut in Junior Barry Fey also added six for broken rib in Monday's action. half for the fifth time after the the winners. Newell, who will not play today, completion of yesterday's Previously seeded Play At Your hopes to be fitted for a flak jacket to Bookstore XII action. Today is the Own Risk dropped a close game to play in later rounds if Double Deck­sixth round and eight more teams Mercury Morris Chose Coke Over er advances. will fall from the tournament. Pepsi, 21-17. Final 512 hindered themselves All this leads up to Sunday's cham­Mercury Morris, now the 1 1 th with less than spectacular 9-S 1 pionship game to be played at 1:30 seed in the tournament, was paced shooting. behnd the ACC. by Pete Vrdolyak's nine points and NEBO's IV, the Hth seed, beat Here's how 32 went to 16 yester­eight rebounds. Dave Schuster and Team 257 by a wide 21-10 margin. day. Marty Roddy also added eight Senior Pete Berg had 7 points and 1 5 rebounds, while Jim Lucke con­tributed 8 points to aid NEBO's cause. 
Bookstore XII 
Bavaro appears to be 
Macri's Preferred Stock has impressed the tournament staff enough to be named the 6th seed.
heir to Hunter's spot 
Yesterday, they topped Ralphie and 
the ... by a 21-1 3 count. ByTIMDOYLE Gray, 6-4, 220-pounds, is the top There were no big individual stars Sports Writer for Macri's, once again showing their
challenger to Bavaro at tight end. 

Gray saw action in nine games last characteristic strong team play, a With the pass becoming increas­fall with the Irish specialty squads. 
trait that has taken many teams far in ingly more common in college foot­Another possibility is junior Brian 
Bookstore. ball, it is important to have skilled Behmer. Behmer, 6-4, 201-pounds, personnel who can catch the ball. saw his only varsity act t ion as a fresh­man against L.S.U. while playing at split end. 
Offensive clinic 
At the beginning of last week the Irish coaching staffdecided to move sophomore John McCabe to tight 

Spring Football 
'83 Lacrosse team beats Wittenburg 
end on a trial basis. Although 
McCabe, 6-3, 222-pounds, play 

The Notre Dame football team is linebacker last fall, he is familiar with By MIKE SULLIVAN chi, Dan Pace, and Pearsall scored barded the Wittenberg goalie with extremely well-stocked with people the tight end position having played Assistant Sports Editor three quick goals for Notre Dame 59 shots, while allowing the Witten­who can do just that at the split end it in high school. and the scoring parade was on. berg attack an incredibly low 13 
and flanker positions. The top "We noticed that he (McCabe) A couple of weekends ago, the Before it ended with a Tony Rettino shots. priority is to fill the tight end posi­has good hands and can run very Notre Dame lacrosse team beat up goal with more than 11 minutes left Understandably, the Irish players tion vacated by Tony Hunter. well," comments Lichtenberg. "But on a weak Midwest Lacrosse As­in the game, I 2 different players had seemed to lose interest in the last 
The tight end position has always assignment wise he is still in limbo. sociation opponent, Mount Union. scored goals. half. They scored their last goal with been an intricate part of the Irish of­The move was made in an effort to Rich O'Leary's squad dominated the The Irish advantage t in the dif­almost the entire fourth quarter still fense. With the loss of Hunter, the make sure we have the best people Raiders, a first-year varsity squad, so ferent statistical categories was al­remaining and slowed play down for offense is losing its leading receiver on the field, not because we have overwhelmingly that the game was most as lopsided as the score. the final minutes. ( 42 receptions). The leading can­doubts about the other players." over before the first half ended. Perhaps the most amazing dif­"I was worried that they wouldn't didates to fill the void at tight end At the flanker and split end posi­Yesterday, on Alumni Field" be­ference, however, was the number play hard," admitted O'Leary. "But it are sophomore Mark Bavaro and tions, the Irish return the top two hind the ACC, things were pretty of shots taken. Notre Dame born-See WITTENBURG, page 10 junior Ricky Gray. players at each respective spot from much the same as the Irish breezed 
Bavaro, 6-4, 242-pounds, owns last fall. past another MLA opponent, Witten­the best credentials, though he has Sophomore Mike Haywood . berg College, 18-1, in a game that yet to catch a pass in an Irish varsity returns as the starting flanker. was over almost before it started. game. He merited an extra year of Haywood, 5-1 1, 170-pounds, caught Coming offa tough game on Satur­eligibility after a hand injury kept 13 passes for 128-yards as a starter in day against Ohio Wesleyan, Notre him out ofthe final 10 games last fall. the last five games as a freshman. Dame jumped out to a large early He was a unanimous Parade All­"Mike Haywood has excellent lead and eased through the rest of American as a senior in high school. speed and is really a tough kid the game as it got ready to leave on a 
"Mark is a fine receiver and a despite his small size," says Lichten­trip to Ohio to take on some tough 

tremendous blocker," says receivers berg. coach Tom Lichtenberg. "He is Haywood will be aided at flanker having a very fine spring and is cur­rently at the top ofthe depth charts." See BAVARO, page 9 
Papson decides today 
David Popson, a 6-I 0 center from inches of snow. The Irish staff has Ashley, Pa., plans to announce today been more optimistic about landing that he has decided to enroll at Popson, as 6-10 Joe Wolf of Kohler, either Notre Dame or North Wis., spurned an offer from Mar­Carolina next semester. quette to accept a scholarship from 
The announcement will take Carolina last week (Wolfcommitted place this afternoon at a press con­verbally to Smith, but as oflast night ference set for 3 in the library of Bis­had not signed a letter of intent). It hop O'Reilly High School in had been rumored that Wolfs deci­Kingston, Pa. Popson, a consensus sion was contingent upon the com­prep all-America choice, heard Irish mittment. of Popson. Wolf and coach Digger Phelps' final pitch last Popson met last weekend at the night at his home. Tar Heel· coach McDonald's All-America Game in At­Dean Smith visited the· Popsons lanta. Monday. Conventional wisdom all along 
Phelps, who spent last night at the has had Popson going to North Rectory ofChrist the King in Blakes­Carolina, but wavering because of lee, Pa., was snowed in as northeas­
See POPSON, page 10

... 
tern Pennsylvania was hit with 10 MLA competition. 
The game did not serve as much more than a practice for the Irish who could field a second team that was better than Wittenberg. However, it did allow O'Leary to play some of his players that had not seen much action this year. 
"You have to figure that we couldn't have done much more in a practice because of the cold weather," said O'Leary. "It did give some of the guys who hadn't played that much a chance to play a lot. In fact, they played almost the whole second half." 
The main reason that he was able to clear the bench was a I 0-1 halftime lead, including six un­answered goals in the second quar­ter. By the end of the game, the Irish had scored 15 goals in a row. 
Joe Hart started the slaughter when he put in an outside shot wittJ less than two minutes gone in the , game. Goals by Kevin Smith and Steve Pearsall extended the lead to 3-0, before Wittenberg scored its one and only goal of the afternoon. 
Things went quickly downhill for the visitors at this point. Bob Troc-







