• • • Holography-page 5 

By CECILIA LUCERO Association, she said. This will allow StaffReporter the association ro develop more programs in local clubs to benefit 
Fostering student awareness of students now and after graduation. scholarship aid and eliciting student The summer job placement response to the long-awaited PACE program is one of these projects. repert comprise this year's focus of Truesdell describes this year's the Alumm Association's annual Hall emphasis on scholarship aid oppor­Visitation Program. according to tunities as "an important Tim Truesdell, assistant director of goal ...something very.tangible." the Alumni Association. The 167local alumni clubs across 
Nineteen current members of the the country and worldwide have Alumni Association board. along stressed scholarship aid as one of with ftfty former board members, their major projects. Each club will conduct presentations tonight makes concerted efforts to raise in six ofthe residence halls to inform revenue for scholarship grants for students of the Alumni Association's students of their particular at:tivities. geographical area. The Pittsburgh 
The Hall Visitation Program, Club, for example, annually spon­created four years ago. provides an sors a Cadillac raffle and funnels opportunity for students to realize proceeds to scholarship aid. "The Pont Neuf Wrapped" is among the art exactly what the Alumni Association The Hall Visitation Program this projects currently being assembled for the offers them. The Alumni Association year also hopes to spur dialogue be­Christo exhibition, scheduled ro open Sunday at "is not just people who have the tail­tween students and the alumni the Snite Museum of Art. The collection of gaters outside the stadium," com­board in response to the PACE ments Patty Dondanville, the Report. The PACE (Priorities and Alumni Association board's director Committments for Excellence) Risks nuclear escalation ofstudent relations. Report, released by Timothy 
The visitation program makes stu­O'Meara and his advisory committee dents aware that in four years or less in early December, evaluates the 
Arms chief takes strategic stand they themselves will become major problems which confront the alumni. Dondanville noted that the University in the next ten years. In WASHINGTON (AP)-President tiele. Nations. Here to begin preparing for Alumni Association serves as an out­addressing these problems, a Uni­Reagan's new arms control chief has "Rather, they are intended to the hearings, Adelman did not let for maintaining a relationship versity policy for the upcoming declared that American strategic support a range ofU.S. foreign policy return a reporter's telephone calls with the University after graduation. decade may be formulated. policy must convince the Soviet Uni­goals, including the commitment to regarding the article. It appeared in 
According to Dondanville, the The Alumni Association board's on that "the United States would preserve western Europe and even the 1981 summer quarterly of Alumni Association undertakes a presentations will take place in Flan­indeed risk nuclear escalation" to parts of the Persian Gulf against Policy Review, which is published strategic planning process so that ner, Breen-Phillips, Walsh, Morris­counter aggression against overr aggression,"hhe said. by the conservative Heritage students "find out where we (the sey, Alumni, and Zahm Halb, tonight European allies or Persian Gulfinter­Adelman, named to succeed the Foundation, a private research or­alumni) have been. where we are, at 9. The Student-Alumni Relations ests. ousted Eugene V. Rostow as head of ganization. and what we can do." Group, composed of twelve student "In other words, U.S. strategic the Arms Control and Disarmament "The redibility of extended U.S. 
The Hall Visitation Program is one hosts, along with the hall presidents, forces do not exist solely to deter a Agency, called for new and better of. deterrence depends on the Soviet 
way to spur student input and ex­will introduce the Alumni Board Soviet nuclear attack or an attack fensive nuclear weapons and beliefthat the U.S. would indeed risk 
plain what kind of interaction stu­against the United States itself," Ken­outlined a strategy that would target nuclear escalation on behalf of
See ALUMNI, page 6
dents want with the Alumni neth Adelman wrote in a 1981 ar-Soviet command centers and the foreign commitments," Adelman 
bunkers where Moscow's leaders wrote. 
would take refuge. Adelman registered his ' 'pws 
He advocated improved U.S. spy while supporting a policy direcu ve
Fighting student apathy 
satellites and other kinds of signed by President Carter shortly intelligence-gatheting systems as before he left office. Developed by well as a new ground-based Harold Brown, his secretary of
Hunger coalition optimistic 
American missile, such as the MX defense, and known as PD59, it 
now under development, and new called for a shift in U.S. nuclear 
By TIM BUCKLEY meal to the World Hunger Coali­S8,045 raised last spring. strategic bomb~rs and nuclear sub­strategy. Instead ofconcentrating on 
News Staff tion." At the end of the semester the Couch cited many reasons for the marines. massive retaliation. the United States 
money is totaled and a decision is decline in student participation. Adelman, who faces Senate con­would try to deter the Soviets by 
Despite a decrease in student par­made as to which programs the ":\1any people sign up and then tlrmation hearings in about a week, developing a more flexible nuclear 
ticipation last semester, members of WHC will fund. decide they don't want to par­is now Ambassador Jeane R, 
See ARMS, page 6
the Notre Dame World Hunger Coalition chairman Brian Couch ticipate. Others blame hard times Kirkpatrick's deputy at the United 
Coalition expressed their optimism described its objectives. "We want here at home for their lack of inter­
for the success of the program. to provide education at Notre Dame est. However, the worst of times 
Since 1974, the World Hunger concerning the effects and here can't compare with even the 
League of Women Voters
Coalition has provided funds for widespread level of world hunger, best of times •in Northern India or 
hunger relief programs in South and the students' role in alleviating sub-Saharan Africa. Still others say 
Bend as well as overseas. Operated this problem. We also wish to make that the amount of money donated 
endorses pro-choice stand 
entirely by students, this group an effort, in our own small way, at by the dining hall administration is 
provides over S10,000 annually for curing world hunger." far less than the actual cost of stu­
people in Africa, South America, and In choosing the program that they dent meals." Couch feels that a con­WASHINGTON (AP) -The na­believe~ that the government should 
Asia. Their main source of funds is will fund, the WHC, says Couch, "has siderable number ofstudenrs refuse tional League of Women Voters, af. leave the question of abortion and 
the voluntary student fast program, established three criteria. First, it to participate because of this situa­ter years of avoiding a stance on the other matters dealing with 
according to Carol Fredrick, chair­must be a Christian organization. tion. issue, announced yesterday it offi­reproduction to the conscience of 
man of the fast program. Second, this program must try toed­Brother Kieran Ryan, assistant cially supports American women's each person. 
Registration will be held at lunch ucate as well as feed these people on vice-president of University busi­right to have an abortion. League officials said the organiza­
and dinner today and at lunch a local level. Finally, the organiza­ness affairs, conducts dining hall "The League of Women Voters tion's board adopted the position at 
tomorrow in both dining halls. Stu­tion should be small in scale." finances. In response to these objec­believes that public policy in a its meeting Tuesday, almost 10 years 
dents wishing to register but unable In defense of this statement tions Ryan noted, "They're getting a pluralistic society must affirm the after the U.S. Supreme Court handed 
to at the prescribed times should Couch said, "Groups such as CARE real good deal. Seventy-five cents is constitutional right of the individual down its decision legalizing abor­contact Fredrick with their name and UNICEF maintain a giant reserve both generous and reasonable since to make reproductive choices," a tion in most situations. and I. D. number at 283-7952. of funds, while the smaller groups this is based on marginal cost. Fur­league statement said. Meanwhile, the leader of U.S. 
"Under the program," according we support have shown direct thermore. when we're feeding 6,000 League president Dorothy S. Roman Catholic bishops said yester­
to Fredrick, "students sign up and results in the past from Notre Dame students, the cost of feeding an in­Ridings said the league is not endors­day in a statement marking the an­
voluntarily skip lunch on Wednes­WHC funding." dividual is negligible. We never ing abortion itself. "This is not a niversary ofthe court action that the 
days from February 2 through April Last semester the program know who will break their fast, and statement that implies moral ap­rul:ngon):1n. 22, 1973, has poisoned 
27." She added, "For every student recorded 959 pledges, with a must assume that many will." proval or disapproval of the proce­the n..:•ional conscience, "eroding 
m the program who skips lunch on dropout rate of 189 students, result­He pointed out to the WHC, ··we dure of abortion," she said in an respect tor life and hardening hearts 
Wednesday, the dining hall ad­ing in S6,930 in funds. This interview. 
rn~~• ..... --... donate~ 7S cents per represents a drop compared to the See FAST, page 6 Instead, she said, the league See ABORTION, page 6 


Thursday, January 20, 1983 -page 2 
News Brie/§ 
By The Ohserwr and The Associated Press 
Mayor Wilce Cooke of Benton Harbor, Michigan, startt:d 1983 with a unique New Year's message for his constituents, residents of the state's poorest community. He issued a call to arms, urging citizens to buy guns. "If you are a homeowner, arm yourself against intruders," the 43-year-old mayor said at a city commission meeting earlier this month. "That is your constitutional right." The commissioners then declared a "war on crime," pledgingsupport for the local police departmenL "It's a great city ...we have great people," Cooke said recently as he drove along avenues lined with abandoned homes and boarded-up businesses. "We have a ready work force, we have vacant buildings, we have land and we offer tax abatements," he said. Benton Harbor is a prime spot for new business to locate and the publicity about the city's gun controversy lets in· vestors know what is available, Cooke believes -AP 
The Mardi Gras Dance-A-Thon is resuming its signup sessions beginning tonight at both dining halls. according to sophomore Karen Klocke, Mardi Gras chairman. Signups were originally discontinued because ofa problem in printing up the tick· ets, said Klc:.:ke. She noted, "Tickets were delayed for four davs after we had already begun signups" three days earlier. Sign ups wlll con­tinue until the marathon. -The Observer 
The deadline for housing contracts has been set at February 2, according to junior George Valencia, housing commissioner of student government. All students planning to reMde on campu~ ne.l<L year should expe~:t to recdve contracts in the mail either today or tomorrow. Valencia urged students seeking more information on living options -appartments and homes in the area that are available -to contact the Off-Campus Housing Office on the third floor of the Administration Building. -The Observer 
States already wracked by joblessness cannot con­tinue to meet the "crushing burden" of soaring unemployment in­surance debts without both immediate and long-term assistance from Congress, a group ofgovernors told Senate Finan~:e Committee Chairman Robert Dole, R-Kan., in Chicago yesterday. "The federal policies were fine at the time they were adopted," said Gov. Richard Thornburgh of Pennsylvania. "Hut they now impose a heavy burden on states with high unemployment." Because states that have ex· hausted their own jobless benefits are forced to continue borrowing federal dollars at high interest rates to keep benefit checks flowing, "what we have now amounts to a tax on states with high unemploy­ment," said Michigan Gov. James Blanchard. "That rverses a time­honored approach of helping" states which, like Michigan, are suffering disproportionately from unemployment, he added. -AP 
Britain's Princess Margaret and a dancer with the Royal Ballet have developed a close "friendship," the Daily Express reported yesterday. The newspaper's William Hickey gossip column said Margaret, 52, met dancer Derek Deane, 29, "in the romantic surroundings ofVenice last year" durnng a week of Royal Ballet per­formances and were seen together this week at a London theater. Linder the headline"A pas de deux for Margaret," the column quoted Deane as saying. "I just can't talk about the relationship. I really don't have any comment to make." The column described Deane as looking rearkably like group Capt. Peter Townsend, a divorced man whose liaison with Princess Margaret stirred controversy 30 years ago. In 1960 Margaret married society photographer Anthony Armstrong-Jones, who was given the title Lord Snowdon. They were divorced in 1978. After her divorce, the princess maintained a close relationship with another socialite, Roddy Llewellyn, who is 1 7 years her junior, before he married another woman last summer ­
AP 
A virus has blurred the vision ofTom Abernethy, but the former South Bend St. joseph's High School and Indiana Univer­sity star is not unhappy. Abernethy, who lives in central Indiana says the seven years of pro basketball he played were "more than I ever expected. If I never play again, I still have a lot to be thankful for," Abernethy told Bill Moor, South Bend Tribune spots editor, this week. Abernethy spent five years in the National Basketball Associa­tion, playing for the Los Angeles Lakers and Indiana Pacers. He then played two years in Italy where his eyesight was blurred by a virus. Abernethy is optimistic the virus that caused him to miss the last part of this season will be completely gone after two or three months of rest, Moor reported. "This kind of virus is almost an epidemic in Italy," Abernethy said. "Things wouldn't be crystal clear when I would look at them -and still aren't. Even now, I still have markings on my cornea. I played about eight or nine games that way, but I was playing more on experience and memory than on my sense ofsight." 
-AP 
Partly cloudy and cool today with the high in upper 20s to near 30. Partly cloudy and not so cold tonight with the low around 20. Mostly cloudy and cool tomorrow with the high in low 30s. -AP 
The Great N.D. Student 
The gn:at Notre Dame student. Cream of the crop. Tops in his or her class. We love to read about how great we are in magazines like Sports Illustrated. We thrive on the admiration and envy of trietlds and acquain· ranees who wished they could go to Notre Dame tO(). When speaking of this revered institution, we often use words like "community," "Christian environment," "caring." and "tradition." 
But it is becoming increasingly apparent that these words art· just that: words. Their mc.mings have some· how been lost underneath the pile of overpriced textbooks now littering our desks. It seems that the creeping disease ofsclt1shness and complacency has in· fected a large part ofthe student body. We don't have to look very hard to find its negative effects. 
The fast sponsored last semester hy the World Hun· ger Coalition is a prime example of the widespread egotism that has afflicted many Notre Dame students. Last semester only 770 students participated in the fast, down a couple of hundred from the previous semester -770 out of approximate!)' 
8.000 well-fed students that usc the dining halls every day. Nine percent ofthe stu· dent body cared enough to give up one meal a week. Of all the great C\lotre Dame stu­dents, the chosen ones, the top students and athletes in the country, only nine per· cent felt they could give up one meal a week to help those who are lucky if they have one meal every few days. 
Complacency is also evi­dent in the way in which the campus has ignored the news of the hockey team's potential demise. The same situation years ago when the future ofhockey and other so-called 
"minor" sports was threatened by lack of funds. But then the student body rallied to the cause. They gathered a :3,500 signature petition in 20 hours and then demonstrated their support vocally and by waving placards reading "Save hockey" before the start of the nationally tc:lcvised Marquette b;L~ketball game. 
Where is that spirit now? Sure, the Student Senate and the Hall Presidents Council proposed petitions at their respective meetings this week, but so far it appears to be nothing more than lip service. Where is the outcry that resounded through ND's hallowed halls three years ago? Where are the supportive banners that hung from dorm windows all over campus? 
There are plenty ofother sordid instan~:es ofstudent complacency amd carelessness. The dbappointing results of last semester's United Way drive immediately come to mind. Of course, there are many people on 
Today Father Hesburgh is: 
in Rome. Italy, attending a meeting of the Pontitkal Council "·lr Culture. 
The Observer 
Design Eciitor ................... •Ken Cer2.bona Design Assistant .......... • •Sarah liamihon 
Lavout Ste~jf.....  .. •joe Zellner, •Doug  
O'Brien,  •Eric  Haas.  • Barne\'  Gram,  
•Marv Heal\'  .  

T1•pes~tters .'..........Jim & Tom MacLennan News Editor ........... •jeff" Harrington Copy Editor..... ........ •l)zave & Tim Neely Editorials Layout. ................... Tari Rrown 
Sports Copy Editor............. Mike Riccardi ND Dav Editor........... .. .... Anne Bailev SMC Day E<litor ........................Tari Brow~ Typist-···-. ...................... Mary Beth Porter Ad Design........ . ............. Marilyn Larkin Photographer ........................ Paul Ciffardli Guest Appearances ..... Instructor Rabbit, 
the Awesome One Vivere Italiano 
•Rookies • •Experienced veteran soon to be 
Rookie Asst. Feat. Ed. 
The Observer 1USPS 598 9201 1S published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam dnd vacat:on penods The Observer IS publ1shed by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased tor $25 per year 1$15 per seme5teq by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of The Associated Press All reproduCtion nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre 
Dame lnd1ana 46556 
Michael rV1onk 
Editor-in-Chiel 
Inside Thursday 

campus that do care, but their numbers appear to be dwindling. 
As the leaders of tomorrow, are these the kind of people we are to become? Is this the kind of mercenary society we want to create for ourselves and our children? Sadly, it appear~ that the "Me Decade" did not end with the close ofthe '70's. Egocentricity and selthh· ness seem to be the style these days. 
Anxiety about the luture and the drive to succeed in 
ve world are a couple of the probable causes of this disturbing phenomenon. but it is making us into something less than human beings. If we can't make the minor sacrifice~ of today, then how are we going to deal with the tremendous problems facing us when we leave this domed Shangri-La: growing unemployment, the influx of economic and political refugees, frighten· ing poverty, illiteracy? The only way these problems can be alleviated is through hard work and sacrifice. 
We should all realize that the University certainly isn't going to conrribute to the 
a_'~-WHC or save hockey on its own. They're too concerned with seeing black ink on the bottom of their in~:ome statements. But we don't have to follow the dubious example offered by our "Christian" university. We have a committment to others, a committmenr we are obligated to fulfill. 
There's more to life than an impressive GPA and money. And it's about time the great Notre Dame stu­dent realized that. 
The l'iews e.-...pressed in the Inside column are trJe vieu•s of their author and do not necessaril\' represent the t•iews of The Observer or its editoric~l board. 

_., -.-­
---------------------------·---------------­
The Observer Thursday,January 20, 1983-page 3 
___::.. 
Saint Mary's lecture 
~~ashion/job connection stressed 
By KATHY WEISENBERGER 
NewsStafl 
"A mini-skirt and clogs probably won't get you that new job." 
That was the advice of a Notre 
Dame graduate who currently 
manages a clothing store in an 
Elkhart mall. 
In her lecture "Dressed for 
Success," held last night in Le:'vlans 
Hall of Saint Mary's College, Diane 
Killoren. manager of the Gantos clothing store in the Concord Mall, provided advice on suitable apparel for women entering the business world. 
Whereas men look for function iri clothing, women have "been so in­terested in style that we haven't looked for quality," according to Kil­loren. She said that fads quickly prove to be disastrous when attempting to build a suitable wardrobe. 
In recalling her manner of dress for her own interviews two and a halfyears ago, Killoren gasped at her combination of an expensive gray Liz Claiborne suit with an inex­pensive maroon frilly blouse. Noting that interviewers become bored by the same look. she stressed the ne..:essity of appearing neither too feminine nor too masculine. "You want to look like a professional woman. 
Several suggestions for women preparing for an interview, accord­ing to Killoren, are as follows: 
• 
A dark suit with a touch of style, but withouttrendy features such as a scalloped coliar. 

• 
A conservative blouse, preferably not the standard type with the big bow. Examples of appropriate colors are cream and other neutral tones. hut definitely not white which presents too stark a contrast. 

•"The 
best shoe to have on your foot is a pump." Strappy sandals are a "no-go." 

•No 
briefcases, clutches, or large handbags; simple purses with a shoulder strap are the most suitable for the image one is trying to present. 


Killoren also gave advice on how a woman may accumulate a working wardrobe upon entrance into the 
Parents' weekends draw student. support 
By THERESA HARDY 
Neu·sStajf 
Student interest tiJr two upcom­ing parents' weekends at Saint Mary's is up, according to the or· ganizers of both events. 
The Junior/Mothers' Weekend is Jan. 28-.30 and the Sopho­more/Parents' Weekend is slated for Feb. 25-27. 
Diane Turley, chairman of the Junior/Mother's weekend said, "Everything is going well. Right now we have sold about 250 tickets at 
S18.50 per person to mothers and daughters for the weekend." Both weekends are in the final stages of preparation. 
Turley and ten other committee members have organized a variety of events. 
The activities begin Friday eve­ning with a reception and singing entertainment in Stapleton Lounge. A brunch and fashion show sponsored by Hudson's department store takes place at the Marriott on Saturday. Later that day a tea and recipe exchange between mothers and daughters is planned in Holy Cross parlor. The movie "Where An­gels Go Trouble Follows" will be shown that evening. The weekend concludes with a Mass and recep­tion on Sunday. 
Turley noted that "The activities are basically the same as in past years. There is also a definite in­crease in interest; possibly because of the great success of last year's Sophomore/Parents' weekend." 
Lee Ann Franks, chairman of the Sophomore/Parents' weekend said, "Things are going great. There is more response this year ti:Jr helping on committees and the talent show than in the past." 
Invitations for the weekend were sent to sophomores and their parents over the Christmas break, according to Franks. The cost tor parents and their daughters is S65. 
The festivities include a talent show and reception on Friday night. On Saturday the College will spon­sor an open house, .\lass, and din­ner/dance. A brunch catered by Saga brings the weekend to a close. 
Franks said she is looking forward to the weekend and is happy with the response, adding that "We al­ready have between 800 and 1,000 people planning to attend." 

I Men's Hair Styling at its finest I
·--------------------------· 
1 /'·~~r-:~ -L-~ 'The Knights ofthe Castle' I 
I1 For the total look on a styled Hair Cut: I 
business world. Buying basic pieces of good quality that may he inter­changed with one another proves in­valuable. "Put a lot of your money into the accessories," rather than the number of clothes themselves, Kit­loren advised. In doing this, a woman may improvise and thus gain ver~atility. She said it is then easy to acquire certain "looks", such as the currently popular "tuxedo look" without wasting money on specitk garments that will soon be outdated. 
Additional helpful hints include planning purchases rather than ac­ting on impulse, buying appropriate shoes which accompany outfits, and acquiring durable fabrics such as wool flannels, while avoiding pure wools and tweeds. 
Utilization of such guidelines, Kil­loren feels, will enhance the image a woman presents in interviews and in the business world itself. 
Clothing store managerDiane Killoren displays l'arious articles ofclothing which she feels would enhance job interviews during her lecture "Dressed forSuccess" last m8htatSaintMarr's. See slOT)' at left. (Photo by Paul Cifarelli) 
1 Hair Cut ShampooI Blow Dry &Condition 
Hrs. Tue, wed. sat 8:30-S:.>o Reg. $15_
I 
00
Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30I Closed Mon Now $8·50 with coupon 272-0312
I 
277-1619 
,..et~r~~~~~~~).C.-)1£!-::~)~Wi{~ t !1~ Come Party at -~ t '-it.• .~ 1 •• • ••••.i• tt~••l~J tI l\rtin,1i 1Jrish lflub I' I"=uJi tJr:ls 11:ul£e:1itli()r1 I 
HairCut Only Now $6·00 With coupon I 
54533 Terrace Lane Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. II (St. Rd. 23) I 
. , We are only minutes from campus
I Across from Mart m s
1.-----------cOUPON•----------..I 
t.----------------­
s ~r ~ 
I LargeScreenTVforBasketba/1 
i
1 and Football Viewing 
1 
~ Tonight atterSpmI ~60 oz Bud & Bu_d Light Pitchers $3.25 1 ~ 65¢ Amer1c~n Bee~ 12ozcans ~ ~ 2 for 1 M1xed Dr1nks 
I 
*Artio, 
n ifuerubollu 5 
I ~ ND~~
! llllldcome ~
~ cleveland Rd. 
~~·~~~>.:..-~~~~~>:<~·>~~~ 
EXPONENTIAL, MY 
.-t
I! /~-, <-.,~~.
'
I
I 
•s 
~ 
-
~ 
j 
~ 
I 
tv:r1'1'-J
t ·\· >"· 1/ ' . )!\. _~ 
t :, V ) t ;;_~A,"\..,\ t \ . t , . I 
1t \ '· \, 
tA£~ , I 
'tiCCIIS I
tf4e I I 
1 
~()W 
• ~--, 
IL1l tt [ irir" • ~~~~.
Danceat~onwill be 
sat., Feb. 5 1p.m.-1 a.m. in South Dining Hall. 
Prizes include a trip to Mardi 
t ~-= ; Gras in New Orleans!! 
t ~· 0 
t -,~ 
(\-, !t 
' r!· ~ ' 
J.~6~~·· t 
,//{ ...1' ' 
..\/ 0 \J t 
/ ,~ "\ ·... t
(?7'·.....~ ! 
' 1 , 
; J! t
:£ 4:, t 
t 
t 
t---­

DEAR WATSON 
If you hove ot least two years of graduate or under-~·· 
graduate education oheod, and you keep getting clues ,~ ~ that your money is running short, then o two-year Air 41. Force ROTC scholarship may be the solution. 
r
Currently we're seeking young men and women 
who would like to serve their notion os Air Force Officers. ~ Consequently, if you're majoring in o selected technical/ non-technical scientific, nursing, or pre-medical field, or con qualify for pilot, navigator, or missi~ training, then you may be eligible for a two-year Air Force ROTC scholarship. The scholarship pays your tuition, lob fees, (plus incidental fees), books, and $100 per month lox free. And even if you don't qualify for the two-year scholarship, you still receive the $100 o month while enrolled in the Air Force ROTC two-year program. 
What do we ask in return? That you serve Americc otleost four years os on Air Force officer. Your Air Force ROTC counselor has the details and qualification requirements. Check it out. II might even make your education finances seem elementary. 
Contact Capt. Gomez, (219) 239-6635, about AFROTC at Notre Dame. 35 years on campus!

:ROTC 
Gateway to a great woy of life. 
t 


-------------------· -·--------------------------------­The Observer Thursday, January 20, 1983-page 4 
The Centerfor Social Concerns 
a.nnouncesan 
OPEN HOUSE 

NDU Students Q _' Faculty and ~iJ /Staff Invited ~ 
Friday, January 21. 1983 3:30 ·5:30pm 
................................................................................................ 
General Organizational Meeting for 
THE NAZZ 
I Anyone who is interested in working forTH E NAZZ please ATTEND THIS MEETING Thursday, Jan_ 20 · ?:pm IN THE NAZZ 
................................................................................................ 
Countryside Place Nursing Home 
is looking for volunteers to visit its residents. if you are interested, call: 
Nancy Balka or Iris Esch 
SENIORS May 1983is just months away, what next? CONSIDER an alternative 
A I year postgraduate experience stressing: service, simple living, and Christian community. HCA volunteers are in several American cities. 
Black -lung issue 
Reagan may delay UMW benefits 
WASHINGTON (AP)-,\1emhers of the United Mine Workers union will he paying close attt·ntion to President Reagan's State of the l.'ni­on speech next week to hear what he has to say about black lung 
benefit~. 
Government officials have indi­cated there could he a delay or freeze on cost of living benefits for an estimated 450,000 recipients of black lung assistance. 
John Jarvis, a UMW lobbyist, said the union is looking into the proposed freeze. "We're concerned, and we'll have to see what they come out with_" 
Jarvb said it would he easier for the F.\1W to fight a proposal to freeze black lung benetlts than one that would delay the adjustment as part of a package plan. 
The freeze in benefits could stem from a Reagan administration plan to seek a six-month delay in this year's Social Security cost of living adjust­ment. Government officials indi­cated Monday that the delay may be extended to other programs, includ­ing civil service and military pen­sions, railroad retirement plans, veterans' benefits and the black lung program. 
By law, payments to people who 
receive black lung henetlts are 
directly t-ied to federal salary scales. 
But the administration hinted last week that it will ask Congress not to give federal workers pay raises this year. 
While benefits vary according to the number ofdependents. the basic ratt~ for a single miner is s.;O-I.90 a month. Currently, federal law sets the black lung benefit at 37.5 per· cent of what is made by a govern­ment worker in the GS-2 grade. 
Arthritis treatment 
Patients may obtain banned drug 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The maker of the arthritis drug Oraflex, whose worldwide sales were suspended last August, said yester­day the drug will be made available 
to. a  few  patients  who  have  not  
responded to other treatments.  
Ron  Culp,  spokesman  for  the  

Indianapolis-based Eli Lilly and Co., which produces the drug, said about I00 physicians involved in the clini­cal trials of Oraflex before it was ap­proved will be able to order new supplies of it. 
They will be restricted to prescribing the drug for patients who participated in those clinical 
The 
trials and who since have not responded to other treatments. 
The company withdrew Oraflex from worldwide sale on Aug. 4, 1982, after reports in Great Britain and the United States linked it with at least 72 deaths. The food and Drug Administration did not ban the drug and the company is within its legal rights in offering Oraflex on a limited basis. 
FDA approved the company's ac­tion. 
Patients receiving Oraflex will have to undergo frequent laboratory tests and medical examinations at their own expense to determine whether they suffer any of the liver and kidney problems which led to Oraflex's withdrawal, Culp said. 
If this limited test is successful. the company is willing to make the drug available to a larger group of patients who have not responded to other types of treatment, he added. 
Culp said the company had received numerous requests for supplies ofOraflex from doctors and patients since it was withdrawn. But he said he had no estimate of the number of arthritis patients who might want to use it because other treatments were not working. 
Alternative Spring Break Vacation! From ONLY
$369 
eRoundtrip Airfare on 
Boeing 707 Charter to Freeport or Nassau. e7 nights Deluxe Hotel Accommodations. eRoundtrip Transfers from 
Airport to Hotel. eBaggage Handling. eTaxes & Gratuities. 
SUNDAY CHICAGO 
DEPARTURES~EKLY 
GO FREEl Organize a group of25, or 15 for 112 FREE TRIP! CALL NOW for Resetvations! Space is definitely UMITED! 1st come. 1st Served! 
Reservations after Feb. 1 on a Space Available Basis Only_ 
CONTACT: 
Sun & Ski Adventures 
2256 North Clark Street 
Chicago. II. 60614 
312-871-1070 
For more information contact: Mary Ann Roemer, .239-7949 Centerfor Social Concerns 
Applications are now auailable. Deadline for application Feb. 8, 1983 
-~ ----~----------­
Business & Technology_T_hurs_day,_Janu_ary2_o,19_83_Pa_ge 
Three-dimensional art 
-EconomicUpdate
.. ..... . "' -..~­
The recession's severity was brought out in 
Wednesday's statement by the government that the economy sank further in 1982 than in any year since the aftermath ofWorld War II. But Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said the steepest drop, at year's end, was the last gasp of the long downturn. "We're in a reces­sion, there's no question about that," said Baldrige. "But the recovery is beginning this quarter." Administration officials also had predicted recovery a full year ago, but their hopes were dashed when interest rates remained high through early summer, slowing sales and stifling business investment. "There's a big, big difference now because interest rates are down," Baldrige said. He spoke with reporters after his department released figures showing the U.S. economy -measured by real, or inflation-adjusted, gross national product ~ fell 1.8 percent last year. That small-sounding number represented the biggest one-year decline since the 14.7 percent of 1946 when U.S. industry was gearing down from its huge war effort. 
-(AP) 
Wall Street Update 
Stock prices tumbled yesterday, extending the 
decline that set in Tuesday. Analysts said a rise in open-market inter­est rates helped touch off the selling. Some of the markets' recent strength has been attributed to speculation that the Federal Reserve would soon cut the discount rate, but no reduction has been made to date. The DowJones average of30 industrials fell 11. S9 to 1,068.06. Declines outpaced advances by almost 2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 80.90 million shares, against '8.38 million in the previous session. -(AP) 
,.~ ...............,...~........--...........................,.................~~~................-............-.......... 
. ~
!SINGERS, GUITARISTS,! 
~ AND OTHER ~ INSTRUMENTALISTS 
. ~  
~ · ~  ~  SACRED HEART PARISH NEEDS YOU!  '  
~  

~ Please call the Parish Office 
. 
~ (239-7511) or Mollie Bernard ~ (255-7139)! 
~ 
L...,...-.a..r"''........a...r"• ...,....._....................._ ............ ~-·....................__..._• ...,..-................ 
mARDI GRAS SNOW SCULPTURE CONTEST 
Jan 29-30th !! theme: mARDI GRAS 
Sketches of sculptures should be handed in to the student activities office by Jan. 25. "' Sculptutes will 
..:.· · be judged on theme and otiginality 
Winning sculptors will be awarded OJ SERVICES for their hall's next party. 
L_________ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
i 
~ 
~ 
~ 
· 
~ 
~ 
. ~ ~ 
..! 
Holography exhibition begins 
By ED KONRADY 
Associate B&T Editor 
The International Exhibition of 
Creative Holography starts tomor­
row in the Moreau Gallery at Saint 
Mary's College. "Light Vistas, Light 
Visions" is the theme of the show 
which ends February 18. 
Holography creates images in 
three dimensions as opposed to con­
ventional artistic devices such as 
paintings which are only two dimen­
sional. 
This exhibition will present holography as a fine arts form rather than as a technological, scientific ad­vancement. The works of 13 holographic artists from six countries are featured in the show. 
Holography is a three-dimensional art form that uses laser light to record the patterns of light waves reflected from an object onto the emulsion of light-sensitive film. Laser light or white,light is then re­exposed on the film and the result­ing image becomes three-dimensional. 
There are three basic form of holograms. Transmission holograms are the oldest, with the original process discovered by Dr. Dennis Gabor in 1947. The holograms get their name from the positioning of the light source during viewing. A laser transmission hologram is made and viewed with laser light which comes through the t1lm from be­hind. Because the most popular laser for holography is a helium-neon type, most transmission imagery is red. White light transmission holograms were invented by Dr. Stephen Benton in 1968. These holograms are made by laser light but viewed with light from an ordi­narv bulb. White light holograms act lik~ a prism, passing through the film and breaking up into an image that can contain every color of the rain­bow. 
Reflection holograms were in­
vented by the Russian scientist Y.N. Denisyuk in 1961. It gets its name from the ·positioning of the light source during the exposure and viewing of the hologram. A laser is used to expose the film and a white bulb is used to view the image. Light passes through the front of the film, hits the object behind it, and is reflected directly back through the film towards the viewer. There are movie frame side by side on a piece of holographic film. The film is then wrapped around the inside ofa clear plexiglass cylinder. When il­luminated by a incandescent light bulb below the cylinder, the original . image appears in space in the middle of the cylinder. 
Artists have been increasing their use of holography as a means of ex­pression since the late 1960's, and 

Holography is a three-dimensional imaging technique using laser light to recordpatterns oflight waves reflectedfrom an object onto light sensitive film. After developing the film, exposure to light reproduces the images with all the dimensions ofthe original object. 
two different kinds of retlection their experiments with three­holograms, with the reflection dimensional imagery promise to ex­hologram recording the image on an pand our concept ofvisual art. emulsion-backed film strip or glass The thirteen artists use the plate. Dicromate retlection medium ofholography for their own holograms were developed in 196-special purposes. Their work ranges with the emulsion hand-coated onto from the retlections on Eastern any shaped glass surface and philosophy and mysticism of Rudie exposed by an argon laser. The Berkhout (Netherlands) to the developed emulsion has to be kept s.ttirical social commentaries of in a vacuum because no fixative for Susan Gamble (England). the image has been found yet. 
The third type of holography is The holography exhibit begins the holographic movie. This tech­with a public reception from -:' p.m. nique, invented by Lloyd Cross in to 9 p.m. tomorrow. Gallery hours 19.,2, combines holograpy and are 9:30a.m. to noon and 1 p.m. to 5 cinematography. The movie is made p.m. \tonday through Friday. The by filming the subject as it rotates gallery is closed on Saturday but is 360 degrees or 120 degrees and open Sunday from I p.m. to 3 p.m. stacking the slit holograms of each There is no admission charge. 
1. Must be e11olled in at approved BSN lfOgTatl. 
2. 
Must meet all other conwnissioning criteria. 

3. 
Automatic 30 days vacation with pay each yea-. 

4. 
Match steady advatcement with competitive saW}. 

5. 
Attend a oorse internship in a modem, wei-equipped Air Force health ~e facility. 


6. Abenefits package second to none. For more information::-.:::con::.:tac~t~ _________________...>l.Ull.-,. 
SSgt. Gary M. Absher 219-289-6019 collect 
board endorsed the right of poor women to have access to abortion on the same basis as more wealthy women. That stance, which careful­ly avoided endorsing abortion directly, was taken during the initial debates over Medicaid funding of abortion. 
At the national league convention last year, several state chapters suc­cessfully pushed a resolution direct­ing the board to adopt a position on abortion. 
Since the convention, the league has surveyed its membership on the issue. One source said that the strong results in favor of giving women a choice surprised even board members advocating that position, prompting the quick board action. 
After the board's decision, several league members in California said they would resign in protest. 
• • . Arms 
continuedfrom page 1 
response. 
He said "the new doctrine will spur and spawn newer and better of­fensive nuclear weapons." 
Explaining the Carter administra­tion's shift, Adelman said it was made "in recognition of the fact that Soviet leaders cherish most dearly not the cities, or the economic base, but the levers of control -keeping the political system, the militarv forces and the military-related economy intact and functioning at their command." 
He added, "A successful strike against military and political control targets would reduce the Soviets' ability to protect military power abroad and to sustain political authority at home." 
• • . Fast 
continuedfrom page 1 
must absorb some administrative costs incurred to keep track of the fast on a daily basis." 
In addition, he emphasized that the amo~nt was recemly raised from 50 to 75 cents through considera­tion of "an inflation factor determined by analysis." Brother Ryan sees no reason for an increase and therefore does not expect one. 
Couch respor.d; tG student cbj~(:­tions, "Regardless of the amount of money obtained from the dining hall administration, that money still goes to good use." 
He encouraged Notre Dame stu­dents to sign up for the program and stay with it. "On Wednesday after­noons your hunger will remind you of your sacrifice of giving up a meal on behalf of the hungry." 
continuedfrom page 1 
members from various geographical regions. A formal overview of Alumni Association functions will open the program followed by an in­formal question and answer session. 
Since the Hall Visitation Program coincides with the Alumni Associa­tion's winter meeting, fifty former members of the board will also take part. 
SCHEDULE OF PRESENTATIONS 
Hall  Speakers  
Alumni  Nordy Hoffman '33  
George Evans '63  
Jerry McGlynn '60  
Zahm  Don Bishop '77  
Herman Kriegshauser '54  
Mike joyce '64  
Walsh  Patty Dondanville '78  
Tom Maus '57  
Dick Byrne '52  

Morrissey Jack Nashert '54 Hal Munger '78 joe Gall '44 
B-P John Burke '69 Chuck Perrin '50 Pat Barrett '51 
Flanner Terri Keating '60 Ron Mazzoli '54 


------------------------------------------·----------------­
Thursday, January 20, 1983 -page 6
The Observer 
• • . Alumni • • . Abortion 
continuedfrom page 1 
against the most elementary claims 
ofcompassion." 
"Can we expect genuine and las­ting progress in improving the quality oflife for all Americans when the most fundam_ental law of our land rejects the inviolability of life itself?" said Archbishop John R. Roach of St. Paul and Minneapolis, president of the National Con­ference ofCatholic Bishops. 
Ridings said the decision by the league's board came after the "reproductive rights" position gained one of the highest levels of support from league chapters of any issue in the last eight years. She said 92 percent of the chapters polled supported the position. 
An announcement of the league decision was scheduled for today, but the chapter response was "so overwhelmingly positive that we saw no reason to wait," league spokeswoman Vicki Harian said. 
The league decision was not total­ly unexpected, but it clearly will generate some controversy within the national group. 


In most jobs, at 22 care of sophisticated you're near the bottom equipment worth of the ladder. millions of dollars. 
In the Navy, at It's a bigger chal­22 you can be a leader. lenge and a lot more After just 16 weeks responsibility than of leadership training, most corporations give you're an officer. You'll you at 22. The rewards have the kind of job are bigger, too. There's your education and training prepared a comprehensive package of benefits, you for, and the decision-making au-including special duty pay. The starting thority you need to make the most of it. salary is $17,000-more than most com-
As a college graduate and officer panies would pay you right out of coiiege. candidate, your Navy training is geared After four years, with regular promo­
1
k. 1 ,.....,, • b . d . l "11
t..,o rna .mg you a ..eauer. !'here Is no oot tions an pay mcreases, your sa ary WI camp. Instead, you receive professional have increased to as much as $31,000. training to help you build the technical As a Navy officer, you grow, through and management skills you'll need as a new challenges, new tests of your skills, Navy officer. --------and new opportunities
206 I
This training is r ~v~;;ORTUNITY w 1 to advance your edu-
INFORMATION CENTER
designed to instill P.o. Box sooo, Clifton, NJ o7ots cation, including the confidence by first-o I'm ready to take charge. Thll me more about 1 possibility of attending 
the Navy's officer programs. 10G I
hand experience. You I graduate school while 
Namte__~~--~-~~--~-­
learn by doing. On I you're in the Navy. 
First tPtease Printl Last
Address.________Apt. 11----
YOUr first sea tour, c· s t· ___z,·n I Don't J·ust take a
ltY'------ta e_ ~ 
you're responsible for I job. Become a Navy
Age..._tCollege/University 
managing the work of officer, and take charge. 
:t:Year in coueg:.,______+GP·"----­up to 30 men and the IAMajor/Minor·_________ I Even at 22. 
I Phone Number 
I 
(Area Code) Best Time to Call This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to fur-II 
~~~w~~fie %:~e ~~~a~h;~~0tod~~:~!e~~eck?~d~· otrNa~~~o~i: 
9
Lt:.:f::hi:.:o:::l::. ____~ ~ J 
Navy Officers 
Get ResponsibilityFast. 
-----~--~~­
Editorials 
Thursday,January 20, 1983-page 7 
Loaning thoughts© costs even less 
This is the last in a series on the implica­tions of the Copyright Act of 1976 and of economically viable alternatives to the open infringemen-t ofthat law. The question ofil­legal photocopying came to the academic forefront last December when nine publis­hers filed a copyright infringement suit against New York University for violating the ''fair use" clause ofTitle 17 ofthe United States Code. 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 
Probably the most overlooked textbook resource on campus is the Memorial Library ­and with good reason. Rarely do two copies of a class text sit among the thousands of abstracts and journals which helped rank the University 73rd among fellow graduate libraries. 
Those few textbooks which the library does keep are either placed on reserve or quickly checked out by students who hear rumors about what books may be used in their courses. The rest of the class is simply left to 
purchase the texts, and usually, very few of 
the books are used. 
Yet how many of America's high schools supply state-supported textbooks for their students? Why could not Notre Dame or­ganize its own textbook-lending system fas­hioned on the same principles as so many of our nation's public schools? 
The University need first establish a book­buying fund for the purchase of classics, an­thologies, and texts. A committee of professors would select one edition of a stan­dard text after reviewing a number ofeditions ofthe work. 
Some may argue that such a procedure would inevitably cause discord among faculty members who disagree on texts and who would require their favorite edition anyway. Yet one need only examine the Arts and Let­ters Core Course faculty to see how commit­tee selection proceeds. A total of over 400 Arts and Letters sophomore students take the required Core Course yearly. Few other courses require such a number of texts. 
Funding such a program is a possible ques­tion. The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, which grosses over Sl million annually from book sales, provides a framework in which to establish such a book-buying fund. 
'Communist America' 
Mexicans fear their own country's move toward socialism since the nationalization of the Mexican banking system recently. Conse­quently, they are concerned about what they describe as "Communist America," their neighbor to the north. 
John Regalbuto 
Would-be Sermons 
Mexicans perceive a mass conformity stemming from an intrinsic weakness in the modern American character; a lack of strength, a lack ofindividuality. 
Afriend in Monterrey, also an engineer with an interest in philosophy, explained why Mexicans are able to discern this. Their his­tory and environment have molded a strong Mexican character. Descended from both the highly civilized ~panish and the primitive native Indians, Mexicans feel lost in some ways, compelled question who they are. They tlnd it natural to think for themselves. 
Mexico suffers from the poor administra­tion ofa government riddled with corruption. Astanding joke is: "If Mexican administrators were given authority over the Sahara desert, within months they would be ilnporting sand!" Tho·~~!:! ~~t: iand is rich with natural resources, oil and silver tor example, the country remains poor and the economy sick. The corrupt elite receive little respect, and 
the people isolate themselves from the 
government and hope for better times. 
The religious conviction the first Spanish settlers brought to this continent is by neces­sity much called upon today. Living in a materiallv frustraed country, these fiercely in· depende~t people look to the Church for answers. This ninety-five percent Catholic society lives by the Church. 
Faith is so deeply integrated into the Mexican way of life that the Church and state must be kept separate. It is a statement of the Church's power that it is illegal for a priest to wear his collar in public! The foundation of faith is too deep for this separation to be much more than .t formal one. It was the government-sponsored television commer­cials during l:hristmas which had beautiful, simple themes such as, "No matter what your positon is, work with love," and "In these times ofeconomic hardship, the best gift is the free gift of love!" 
Young adults possess an almost naive sin­cerity -they know of no other way to act. A typical college scene is this: while waiting for the professor to arrive, classmates line the corridor. Another student approaches, and it's as if a basketball star were running through the tunnel of his teammates during the pregame introduction -he's shouting and shaking hands the whole way! An American might think they hadn't seen each other in months. One does not encounterjose Cool or Chic Woman, masters ofthe false front and the ulterior motive. 
I've asked more than a few ofthese men and women for their impressions of the American individual. My engineer-philosopher friend gave an answer which speaks for many. "The American is basically a very good person, but I feel he has been ~anipulated by his society." An educated Mexican will be the first to admit his dependence on and appreciation for im­ported American technology. But among these people there is a perception of insin­cerity and insecurity about the American 
How do the communist jokes originate? College students make reference to their American counterparts in fraternities and sororities: "How can so many people wear the same clothes and the same hair and act in the same way? How can so many people let a group do their thinking for them~ In America, everyone has the opportunity to be the same. They can go to work, buy their two cars. and live side by side in look-a-like houses." 
America, perhaps the freest country in the 
world, is certainly not communist. But the 
potent freedom that makes America so great 
can also be her demise. In this country, a mind 
has freedom to seek guidance from many 
more sources than religion. The weakest 
aspects of the American character which the 
Mexican character perceives, insincerity and 
conformity, are signs of insecurity catered to 
more by materialism than by true guidance 
And what is true guidance? We Americans 
can learn it from the people of the country to 
the south. Faith. Faith. Faith. 
Book-purchasing money, which now goes to the publishers each year, would be spent about once every five years. Students, many of whom spend well over S150 per semester now would pay about S30 for the use ofsuch a book-lending program. 
After five years, the faculty committee could select updated or improved editions to replace its previous choices. After five years of use, such books would need to be replaced. 
The bureaucracy involved in such a system would be no more of a prol;>lem than long bookstore lines. And the purchase and sale of books, a service on which the bookstore loses money, would decrease. 
The new computerized checkout system would eliminate any problems the program would cause if it were installed using the present antiquated card system. Under­graduates would check out books for a semes­ter at a time, as graduate students currently do. 
Such a system would also encourage more students to use the library's facilities as many would be compelled to use the library for more than only studying. 
The program itselfwould be voted upon in the upcoming student body elections and dis­cussed among the faculty and library ad­ministrators. Participation would be based on a faculty member's agreement to order only a minimum number of new books to supple­ment the library-owned copies. 
Another question concerning the purchase of books, is that many students will want to buy a book to keep for future reference. 
The library's initial purchase of any edition might only include 50 percent of the total number of books needed. In such a way, the library would not waste its time processing unnecessary books. The program need only start slowly and gradually develop accep­tance. 
With the ever-increasing cost of books, the University must enact measures similar to the philosophy of the financial aid office. Books are no longer incidental expenses, but great economic and educational investments. 
For too long, Notre Dame has held the "American" belief that new means better; but few can afford warm ink on virgin pulp, and none can legally avoid the implications of the Copyright Act of 1976. The time has come for Notre Dame to accustom itself to dog-eared pages and due date stamps. 
This series could not have been completed without the gracious assistance of joe Musumeci and Carol Camp. 
P.O. Box Q  
Abortion anniversary  
1  DearEditor: what the abortion issue comes down to is january 22, 1983 marks the ten-year an­when society wishes to value a human life. niversary of the legalizing ofabortion in this and protect it. When is that life a "person"? country by the Supreme Court. Ten years Historically, it has always been society's and ten million dead unborn children later decision to value human life, or not. Histori­the abortion issue remains unchanged. cally, the morally right decision has always Amidst all the alibis, the smoke screens, the been in favor oflife. Slavery devalued human political patronizing, the issue comes down life, and it is universally condemned. Hitler to one question: Is an unborn child a human wished to rid the world ofunwanted life, and life? If he is, abortion is the killing of .m in­is seen as evil. It is time man realized that nocent human being, and that is wrong. If abortion is a product of a similar disregard not, no human life is taken, and abortion is for the value and sanctity ofhuman life. Prin­permissible. ciples that man cherishes, such as justice, The answer seems clear. An unborn child equality, and love, should lead man to con­is a human life. We were all one at one time. demn abortion as he does slavery. It is time just as each one of us is now in a stage of man remembered these principles and human development, we were then. All that showed the sanctity he affords all human life was needed was time to develop. Science to one of life's necessary stages -its begin­has known this for years. As its capabilities nings. From its beginning to its end, life is advanced, science could see the sophistica­valuable, sacred, and worthy of protection. tion of even the beginnings of life. In 1965. Only when man cares for life's beginnings as Life magazine, in its revealing "Life Before he should will he ever really value all life as Birth" issue, said, "The birth ofa human life he should, as his principles demand. For, as really occurs at the moment the mother's Albert Schweitzer said, "If a man loses egg cell is fertilized by one of the father's reverence for any p~t ~f !if~, h~:.: ~:iH hJse spe~w cell~." NQ~ !()n~ ~gc, 1Vew~u,eeiz reverence for aii life." magazine acknowledged the same thing. Newsweek went a step further and said that Daniel R.joseph  
NO 5/;f-711EY IIAVl/17@#f !/WilY)If!.. I /IN/) 11/E l!!Vf J(/5(00{ II WIIJL£ L{)T L{!!VGE;f.,,  


Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief.............................Michael Monk Busi1tess Manager .............................Tony Aiello
The Obse;~ is tht: independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni· 
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz
versity of Notre D:~.mc du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflec. 
Executir•e .'\'ews Editor ..............David Dziedzic Advertising Manager .. ....................Chris Owen
the policies vf th<: administration of either institution. The news is reported as :tc­
~:liC E:xecutir'e Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager..................Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager.......................\1ark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ..... .............. Jost>ph Musumeci
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ........ . ................. Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) ?39-5303 
-' 
r­
' 
~j)()~tS=jEJ==~==i=~~S================================T=hu=r=sd=ay='=Ja~n=ua=l~=2=0=,=19=8=3==p=a=ge==8 
Hy The Ohserl'er and The Associated Press 
The Notre Datne Women's Trackand Field 
Club will compete at home tomorrow night. The meet starts at 7 on the indoor track at the North Dome ofthe ACC. -The Observer 
The Red Smith Writing Scholarship at 
Notre Dame was benefitted by the auction of a stud fee to harness racing champion Green Speed last weekend in East Rutherford, N.J. Bob and Jackie Greenberg of Paramus, N.J., owners of the Bunny Stable, were the high bidders. The auction was held at the Garden State horse sales at the Meadowlands. The Greenburgs won it for 
114,200. Green Speed, the 1977 Hambletonian winner and harness horse of the year, stands at stud at Pine Hollow Stud Farm in Pine Bush, N.Y. Morton Finder, president ofPine Hollow, had announced that the auction's proceeds would be donated to the scholarship fund honoring Mr. Smith. -The New York Times 
Aerobic Dancingfor faculty and staff starts this week. Classes will meet on Mondays and Wednesdays at 5: I 5 p.m. in Gym 2 on the ACC upper concourse. A S12 fee will be charged for the seven week course. -The Observer 
The Irish Rugby Club will hold an organizational meeting in LaFortune tonight at 7:30 p.m. No experience is neces­sary, and new players are encouraged to attend.-The Observer 
Notre Datne-Fordham ticketsfor the Feb. 10 game at the Byrne Meadowlands Arena are available at half-price to students at the ACC ticket office. The Irish play the second game ofa doubleheaderwith Manhattai1 taking on Holy Cross in the first game. Student tickets are S5. -The Observer 
Stan White signed with the United States Football League Chicago Blitz yesterday to become the first National Football League player to sign with the t1edgling league, which will open play this March. -AP 
The NVA office has announced deadlines for entries for some spring semester sports. The deadline for doubles racquetball and doubles handball is today, and signups for men's and women's interhall track will run through Wednesday, Jan. 26. NVA also an­nounced that cross-country ski rentals are available again this year. Call 239-6100 for more details. Finally, aerobic exercises are being held on Mondays and Wednesdays at 4:10 in the ACC. -The Ob­
sen•er 
Yannick Noah of France used his booming serve to eliminate Vitas Gerulaitis andJohan Krick continued his domination over Steve Denton last night to complete the· opening round of the S400,000 Volvo Masters tennis tournament at Madison Square Gar­den. Noah ousted Gerulaitis 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, while Krick stopped the hard-serving Denton 6-3, 4-6,6-2. The victories advanced Noah into the quarterfinals, where he will face third-seeded Ivan Lend! of Czechoslovakia tomorrow afternoon, while Kriek will meet top­seeded Jimmy Connors tomorrow night. In today's quarterfinals, second-seeded Guillermo Vilas ofArgentina will play Andres Gomez of Ecuador in the afternoon and fourth-seeded John McEnroe will take on Jose-Luis Clerc of Argentina at night. -AP 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will hold a meeting tonight in Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's at 8. Notre Dame students can meet at the shuttle stop at the Grotto by 
7:35 for transportation. All are invited. -The Observer 
The Tae Kwon Do Clubwill hold its first practice today in the ACC Pit. New members are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
Hurdler Renaldo Nehemiah was given permis­
sion yesterday to compete as an amateur in track and field events in the United States despite being a professional football player with the San Francisco 49ers. The precedent-setting decision by the U.S. Olympic Committee was announced by its president, William Simon, in Los Angeles. It marks the first tirne a professional in anoth­er sport -other than a college athlete -has been allowed to com­pete as an amateur in track :~nd field. Nehemiah, 23, is still barred from all international competition bec;IUse the International Amateur Athletic Federation does not permit participation by any athlete who is a professional in another sport. -AP 
:;:m:;BA SKETBA LLill~iMi 
Last night's Result 
Notre Dame 64, Bucknell 52 
Bucknell (52) 
M FG-A FT-A R F 
p Hegedus 36 4-11 1-2 9 3 9 Cody 25 2-3 0-0 2 5 4 S1gl 36 3-4 3-5 6 4 9 Punefoy 37 2-9 2-3 3 2 6 Andrews 27 2-9 1-2 2 0 5 McGregor 4 0-1 1-2 a 0 1 Moss 19 5-8 3-5 5 4 13 Wnght 7 1-2 1-2 0 0 3 Cos1mano 8 1-1 0-0 1 0 2 Romberger 1 0-1 0-0 1 0 0 200 20-49 12·21 29 18 52 FG Pet 408 FT Pet 571 Team rebounds -1 Turnovers -14 ASSIStS -8 (Pure1foy 5, Hegedus 2) Techn1cals-None Notre Dame (64) M FG·A FT-A R F 
p 
Varner 35 8-12 1-1 4 1 17 
Andree 20 0-1 0-0 3 1 0 
Barlow 22 3-8 1-1 4 5 7 
Paxson 35 6-10 0-1 3 1 12 
Pnce 20 1-3 0-0 2 3 2 
Sluby 20 5-7 0-1 2 5 10 
Dolan 32 2-5 10-13 13 2 14 
Rowan 5 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 
Rucker 5 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 
Buchanan 0-0 2-2 0 0 2 
Duff 5 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 
200 25-47 14-19 31 19 64 
F(?, Pet 532 FT Pet 737 Team 
rebounds -4 Turnovers -16 ASSIStS -11 
(Varner 4. Paxson 3) Techmcals-None 
Halftime-Notre Dame 33. Bucknell22 Off1­
c1als-Ed Marac1ch. Randy Drury. Art Wtllard 
(All 81g Ten) A-10.241 
EAST Fordham 60. Fa1rt1eld 58 Georgetown 62. P1t1sburgh 54 Navy 71. Lafayelte 69. 01 Villanova 75. Se10n Hall 59 
SOUTH East Carolina 58. South Carolina 48 Maryland 80. Clemson 61 MemphiS St 100, Delta St 62 Vtrgtma 74. Vtrginta Tech 64 William & Mary 90 N C Wesleyan 55 
MIDWEST Dayton 75, R1der 57 M1ssoun 84. Oklahoma 51 63 
FAR WEST Nev -Las Vegas 95. Long Beach St 83 
The Observer wtll accept ctass1f1eds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 am to 4 ~0 p m However. ctass1fleds to appear 1n the ne~t 1ssue 
must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pr1or fo insertton. All cldSSifleds must be prepa1d. 
, 
etther tn person or througn the mali.
Classifieds 
LOST: ROOM AND MAIL KEYS OVER Need a nde to CHICAGO on Fnday. Jan Too busy to eat right? Get nutnt1on In­BIG RED NOODLE-HEAD HOCKEY ATTENTION!!! The NOTRE DAME MAR· THE WEEKEND. IN A CIRCULAR KEY 21 Can leave anylime afler 3.30 pm (or surance fln&st qualtty v1tamms. TONIGHT DON T MISS IT LETS GIVE TIAL ARTS INSTITUTE has 1ts firs!
NOTICES 
CHAIN WITH THE NUMBER 218 IM· perhaps earlier) Jtm, x8739 mmerals, and doe! supplements delivered THOSE HOGS SOMETHING TO workout lh1s fnday. January 21. at g-oo PRINTED ON THE SIDE OF BOTH on campus Details. call M1ke 233-7328 SQUEAL ABOUT p m 1n room 219 at the Rock Any N D or KEYS. PLEASE CALL 1858 IF FOUND. Like to party? I need five or more parly S M C student Interested tn learntng Tae THANKS photographers to ass1st 1n my work at the Too busy too laugh much? Gel g1gg1e OBITUARY BEAUREGARD · 4 years Kwon Do and Jtu Jnsu should come 
0 K NO MORE CUTE STUFF IF YOU Ptcture Man $4-8 per hour. no ex­1nsurance --ftnest Quahty funny sk1ts, young, of 325 N Taylor Slreet and ex­prepared to work out Any Questtons. con­NEED A HAIRCUT AND DON T WANT LOST A patr ol STAN SMITH lenms penance necessary--wtll tram Call 232-songs, and mustcal performances per­resldenl of Cavanaugh Hall passed away lac! Random at 1413 or Gary al3759 TO PAY MORE. THAN $4IGUYS) OR shoes 1n etther the Rock or Alumni Hall on 1622 lormed on campus De1a1ls, go lo lhe 83 dunng Chnstmas breaK Respected by all 
$6(GIRLSJ THEN CALL TODAY FOR Keenan Revue--NEXT WEEKEND> 
Thursday. Jan 13 Please call Steve at who Knew him. feared by !hose who SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS YOUR VERY OWN APPOINTMENT 1061 for a $5 reward d1dn l Beau· never met a rodent he Information and applications may be MICHOLE 233-8456 BOOKS FOR SALE Econom1cs 11th. d1dn I like In remembrance of h1s beloved obtained by contacting Andrea Shap­
Tak1ng S1des. The Problems ot soul. an IRISH WAKE w1ll be held pell at the Center for Social Concerns, DON T MISS THE ENVIRONMENTAL Philosophy, A Short Calculus, Stai>Siical Thursday even1ng SurVI'Vtng are famtfy 239-5293. Application deadline: CONCERNS MEETING TONIGHT AT 7 Analysis Markel1ng, lnlro to Personality. members Tom. Rob. Tetsu. Hank. John. January 31.
L--FO_R_R_EN_T____,/ I.____F_O_R_SA_LE___.I
K o!C HALL Accoun11ng and L1fesav1ng call M1chole Kathie, and John 233-8456 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT A CAR Fnday GIRL SCOUT COOKIE SALE NORTH N D -S M C SKI TEAM Noon Tit Monday Noon $29 95 1ncludes 5-bdrm completely furmshed. close to The New York Times, The Washington DINING HALL DINNER JANUARY 24-MANDATORY MEETING FOR 
HOUSE BY OWNER Arlington Hts., Clay Twp , 2 5 m1les from NO and Umvers1ty Mall 1600 sq II . 4 bdrm. I 5 balh. ln-lvel, 
150 Free Mtles Sales Tax and Insurance campus. comfortable house for group of 5 Post, The Los Angeles Times, The 01>­27 -ALL MEMBERS E.-:!!.S. f~~e ~~!tJ 1cr Re:::~rvattons 259-or 6 for 1983-84 Phone 288-3942 atler 6 server. SAINT MARYS STUDENTS: Are -All HONORARY MEMBERS
2-car garage. large shaded lot, many ex­8459 you ready lo beg1n your Climb lo the pm­THEO MAJORS: Today-come to the ALL WHO TRIED OUT
tras 2 blcck!i !rom Dci~G:;;-: School. MALE ROOMMATE WANTED to share~ ~:!~1~ C! j9urn.;;;;I!C :;~,:,:;~s'; TUiiig!:! ~~ :;~.;:al Hour with Prof. Storey as guest­-All STEAMBOAT PARTICIPANTS 
$59.500 277-b19l aner6:UO p.rnBeware JUniOr htgh school gtrls--The bedroom apt 2nd floor of duplex 2 miles the ntght Come to the Sa1ni MdiY s Ob­-5:00 PM-S;ji v·~,;;i;~~~!ls~j· TONIGHT 9 00 PM BULLA SHED 
SARF ts twenty-one thts weekend! from campus $67 50/month plus Ulllil1es. server news reporters meet1ng tontghl at !;.'':I\IOUET SPONSORED BY MILLER
1979 Honda Prelude S1lver grey. rac1ng 'lTC
Grad prelerred 289-8118 · 6 p m. tn the Satnt Marys Observer offtce KAJ · Thanks for las! mght. Our game was L•o.._ Wargames! Interested m formmg a club? (basement of Reg1na Soulh) Be !here better than the one played on the baskel· For 1nfo Call Woody 277-0992 stnpes, red cloth tnt. Atr, automatic AM­
FM slereo/8 track Electnc-powered sun­MIKE 1401 2 Grad/Law students wanted to share 4-roof cond or ball court When do I get a rematch? Love. 
43,600 m1 , exec $4975 bdrm home wrth 2 other law students TRF
besl ofler 233-3143. exl 282 after 9·30 SAINT MARYS STUDENTS. Remember !he countless t1mes you ve 1oyfully
Completely furmshed $75/mo 288-ICELAND11 ! ICELAND II' ICELAND!'! 
3109 CASSETTES. CASSETTES TDK SA-90 perused the I ales! ed111on of The Observer Chariots of Fire
$2.70 each No lim1t Call 289-7640 durmg lunch and thought to yourself
lOST/FOUND 
Fnday. Jan 2tStudenl hous1ng · 6-bdrm house. tully 
··Gosh. how I WISh I could be Involved m Hey Sunman.
7:00, 9:00, 11 00Stanley Kaplan MCAT matenals Com· reportmg on the burntng tssues of our Bnng to on. dude'carpeled. 2 baths, 2 kitChens wllofl 232­$1 00, SMC, Carroll Hall 4057 or 272-7767 
plele set $1 00 00 Call Debb1e afte1 ttme ? Delay no more The t1me ts nnow
FOUND· Eyeglasses between Flanner 
10:00 272-9709 Come to the Samt Mary s news reporters
and PW See NO lost/found dept Make this your best semester ever!! Ltve 
organtzattonal meettng tontght a16 p m tn tn Knute Rockne s old house Four Why not add a bold, 1nnova11ve d1menston Them bleedm eart liberals re mtent on
USED. OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS the SMC off1ce (basemen! ol Reg1na
FOUND--Patr of woman s glasses be­bedrooms. completely furmshed for only to your nexl party. happy hour. or soc1al mak1n I he world safe for hypocracy
BOUGHT. SOLD. SEARCHED Soul h) L>mlled pos1110ns available Come
tween Stephen Chem1s1ry and the F1eld dilemma? Call Mag1c1an Gary 0 at x8318 -Woody W1lson
87 50/mo Call Bob. Mall, or Mike at 289­
ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E WAYNE early for a good seal Be there 
House To cla~rn call x3454 for free performances 
3962 ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY Hey GumbyJEFFERSON INTERSECTION 
LOST a woman·s. stze 5 long, maroon NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT Do your ears perk up at th8 mentton of Why not get a bold, mnovat1ve clue and Cneg on Cheg? t'-v--·aU wtnter coat It was lost at the South SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO GOOD Woodward and Burnstetn? Does your attend the soc1al so1ree ot the season -Love. Anne
T ypewnler for sale Gd Cond . $25 or besl offer ph x3455
c;,.: "9 Hall las1 Wed If you have seen or AREAS 2773604 pulse race when you gel a whiff of The Revue Is Com1ng ! lou:'" 1t. please contact Lily (7974) newspnnt? Are you eager to earn your Tildnks What s that. MOONWEP You don t 
Furn 1 bdr&Seml-furn2bdrontheAtver very own reporter s notebook? Do you LOST. A set of keys w1th the numtler 218 deserve lo preathe the same a1r as a lowly
Avalidble Immediately Clean & Close to have news 1n your blood? lf you answered 1mpnnted on them Please call 1858 '' LOST: One dark blue CB 1nsulatert w1nter NO 233-7631 or 234-87 43 Yep, 10 any or all of these questtons. found 
Hunky from Cleveland or a spud trom 
lderho or worst of all. a SICkly mother fromtacKf!.t.,wt!lriiQht blue stnpe last seen al 
and you are a SAINT MARYS STU­B'r.dgels"Sal n1ght. If you tool< 11 by aCCI­Furnished 1 bdrm apl Near N D $185 per TICKETS DENT, The Observer IS !he place for you The Balls. The Balls Midland? That, rny enema. IS a farce! d<11. please return 11! Call Mart at 8369 
month plus own electnc Phone 272-7767 The 1983 Satnt Marys news team IS cur­JUNIOR~>".ill'•IIORS"JUNIORSII Off.
or 232-4057 rently be.ng organtzed Come to the You can do 1t 
FJUND. A· thin gold rmg, no tdentlftca· campu:; J•JntOf\j mav p1ck up an Act1v:y
meeting and ftnd out more Thursday the -Dorran 1:5-8
Look IHeres the deal !I need 3 GAs for the s1ngle apt 3 blot's from memonal hosp .. 20th at 6 p m m !he Satnl Mary s Ob­
tton.at Keenan party on Saturday Call Caleno:u tor tha mor-llh! of Jan and Feb 
Feb 5 Bball game aga1nst So
3~ ,4 or come to 105 Keenan tn th~• 3tud€'r'IH Atl'Vttles Off1ce •n
---..'I 4 roofTls, tust remedied, maJor utlltttes Carolma OK? Tom,288-8004 server ofl1ce (basement of Regma south) P.W. 1n Grace? p.ayea 1'iO.OO 288·6721 Be !here You ve gott a be kiddmg' LaFortune 
FOUND Baskelball ticket. between Far­ley and BP Owned by female Call4~71 3 tledroom. 2 story, newly carpeted, gas D1d you lh1nk th<·se last three ads were Grace has a clue? You re definitely kid· H1 Catt.ennel!! t...et::-3. Pat turndce. garage 260 00 288-6721 Silly. wasteful. and downnghl alrheaoEO<f? dlng 1 LOST· Red gloves Without f1ngers lots of 
Do you enjoy lots of public SMC er at>u•e. sentimental value If found please call Liz 
Open1ng 1n Campus Vtew apartment for as well as equal amounts of Domer craC'ks SENIOR CL•'.!>S HAPPY HOUR this more at 8084 
PERSONALS I 
male NO student -must be dean, non­pertormed by synlhe11cally emboldened Friday at Sweeney's from 4-711 Actio: You Won't SeQ 
I 
smoker Rent $130 month. utillttes In­Keenannes? Then you JUSt can·t m•es the Celebrating our last sem,sterlfl in tha "83 KNnan Revue LOST ONE SAFE EENVIRONMENT. IF cluded Call Dave 277-0955 alter 6 pm 83 Keenan Revue We re clo&er than you Toots;e Roll · Dushn Hoffman s amaz•Pg YOU WANT TO SEE IT RETURNED, IrS TIME lhmk The Notre Dame F l 0 C Support Com­acroba*IC act! COME TO THE FIRST MEETiNG OF To start lh1nkong aboul 83-84 Student mtttee holds 1ts f1rst 1nformat1onal and or· Pope (;""'orge Rmgl Hesburgh s nse to 
THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS Government positions at SMC If you are See !he mov1e GREASE Carroll Hall ganozalional mee11ng on Monday, becoma t~e brst ·tl·;ar 01 Ghnst to form an ORGANIZATION THURSDAY AT 7, K Interested 1n running for ANY position, (SMC) Jan 19 20 7&9:30 p.m Adm January 24 at 8'00 p m 1n the Hayes­alumni :-.tub tor Fallen CathOliCS
WANTED
OF C HALL you must come to an tnformatton m-eeting $1 00 Healy Aud1lorum All interested persons. Gone w1t!"1 ~ff& Wind-1-\ famous chem1s1ry 
e1lher Jan 24 al 6:00 or Jan. 25 at 9:00 1nctudtng newcomers. are enthus1aSt1cal· profes;;cr cant help bu1 keep a cool head LOST: Gray wool KANGOL cap lost in p.m. Both sess1ons are 1n !he Studenl Af­ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS­ly welcomed Plans for the upcommg on a blus;ery (jay under the Oorne Hay'ls-Healy Please, my ears are !reez­wanled 10 buy; one reasonably pnced falfs Conference Room If you have any MEETING THURS. 7pm AT THE K of C Campbell s Boycott Referendum w1ll be A Penny For Your Thoughts · Runaway mg! Call8077 sofa call mary or marty 7994 queslions, Call Monica at 5017 DO YOU CARE? diSCUSSed lnflatlO~"' hns St Mary·s academia 
·fhe Observer College roundup 
UNC, UVa. win state showdowns 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C (AP)-Matt Doherty scored 21 points and joined Warren \lartin in closing the door on North Carolina State a~ No. 3 :'llorth.Carolina claimed a 99-81 At­lantic Coast Conference basketball victory last night. 
N.C State cut a 1+point Tar Heel lead to 55-~6 before \!actin and Doherty went to work to seal North Carolina's I Oth straight victory. 
Martin started it with a hook shot, Doherty got a tip-in and then hit a 15-footer to make it 61-46 at the I 5:59 mark. After Thurl Bailey scored for the Wolfpack, Martin grabbed a missed shot and slammed in a dunk for a 65-48 score. 
Another Martin dunk lifted the score to 66-50 at 13:42 and after the Wolfpack cut the deficit to 13, Doherty blocked a shot on one end and hit a three-point basket at the other to make it 69-53. 
North Carolina held the Wolfpack to one tield goal in six minutes while rolling to a 19-6 lead before Terry Gannon began hitting from the perimeter to help pull N.C State to within 28-24. 
But Sam Perkins hit a pair of 5­point baskets and Doherty added an­other as the Tar Heels turned back the rally en route to a 52-42 halftime lead. 
Jim Braddock added 18 points tor North Carolina, 13-3 and 3-0 in the ACC, while \lichael jordan had 15. 
Perkins I5 and Brad Daughert\', playing with a stress fracture in his left foot, added Io_ 
:-.J.C State, 8--'1 and 2-2 in league play, was led by Gannon's 18 points. Sidney Lowe added 12 while Cozell McQueen and George McClain scored 11 each. 
Virginia 74, Va. Tech 64 
RICHMOND; Va. (AP)-Reserve forward Jim Miller scored 18 points as Virginia's seventh-ranked Cavaliers opened a 10-point lead midway through the tlrst half and coasted to a 74-64 basketball victory over 17th-ranked Virginia Tech last night. Beating Tech for the eighth straight time the Cavaliers improved their record to 14-2. The Hokies, who brought a seven-game win 
streak into the comest, suffered only their second loss in I6 starts. 
Miller, who scored I 5 of his poims in the second half, was backed by Ralph Sampson with 12 points, Rick Carlisle with 11 and Ricky Stokes with I 0. 
Freshman Del Curry paced Tech with I7 poims, while Perry Young added I5 and Bobby Beecher 14. 
After a seesaw opening I 0 minutes of play that featured seven lead changes and four ties, Virginia ran off I2 straight points to take con­trol ofthe game. 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival '=ashion Show Committee presents 
"A MASTERPIECE" 
a student fashion show M 
Seeking all students interested in being a 
MODEL, EMCEE, OR STAGE WORK. 
Pick up information in the 
Black Studies Office, 345, O'Shag. 
For more information call 
•
Greg 233-7328 or Regina 283·4634 
CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS Applications tor Student Activity Funds are now available at the Student Activities Office, 1st Floor LaFortune. The second semester allocation is designed to fund groups which either did not receive funds first semester, or in special cases, groups which were funded who demonstrate additional need. Deadline for applying is Friday, February 28. 
................................................................................................. 
IN JUST A SHORT TIME ... YOU WILL BECOME A NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS OR ALUMNA! 
Meet the Alumni Board of Directors at the Hall Visitation Program and see what's in store for you after graduation: 
Thursday, Jan. 20 9:00pm 
I The following halls will host Board members: 
Flanner Alumni 
Breen-Phillips Morrissey 
Zahm Walsh 
•IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHIHIIIIIIetllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllttllllllllllllll 

Asteal and layup by AI Young gave Tech a 20-18 lead with 9:52 remain­ing ·in the opening half, but the Hokies did not score again until Cur­ry popped in a 16-footer at the 4:16 mark. 
Purdue 63, Illinois 62 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) ­Gene Keady says pressure doesn't seem to bother his Purdue Boiler­makers, and Dannv Palombizio is 
Carrie Bates (center) contests the tip in Sunday's loss to
proofofthat. . · . 
Alabama. The Irish women, 10-4, hope to bounce back this
Palombizio canned a foul-line 
weekend in home contests against Detroit and Illinois-Chicago.
jump shot with four seconds remain­
(Photo by Scott Bower)
ing last night as Purdue edged Il­
linois 63-62 in a Big Ten Conference 
basketball game. 
Palombizio's basket came just 16 
seconds after Bruce Douglas hit two 
Concett 
foul shots to put Illinois ahead 62­61. "Our strategy on the last shot was to go to (Russell) Cross low or 
LotteryPalombizio high," said Keadv. "And if they were covered try to hit Stevt: 

Thurs. Jan. 20 
(Reid) or (Kurt) Clawson on the 
7pm In The Nan
wings and let them shoot it in. "It worked out where Reid hit Danny high and he hit the basket," 
Tickets Jll.SO 
See HOOPS, page 10 
• CIINEIHAI * 
friday night film series 
A dJshngu•Shed group of recent roretgn 111ms all of wn1ch sned t~gnt on the relationship oetween aesthetiCS ancJ comemporary culture Held 1n con1unctJon wrlh GOTH 140 tBas•cs o~ F11m Stud1esJ and GOTH 3t 4 tH1story or F•lmJ and sponsored by the Oeoartment oi.Commun,cahon ano Theatre 
All ShOwtngs at !he Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art, Notre Dame Campus at 7 30 p m 
lnd1v1duat Adm•ss,ons $2 00 Ser1es Ttcl<et Any 25 lr!ms !rom three senes $30 00 Any 15 films from three senes $22 00 
January 21 
My Dinner with Andre 11% , 
LOUIS Ma1te USA. COlOr 110 mm An eventng at a restaurant becomes a vtvtd funny mov.ng account of an aStOhiShJng sprntual JOurney Much ol the Ilim s humor and Oynamrsm denves lrOIT' 1ts serendtpi!Ous 1nterp1ay between the two central characters-the elegant QUl'<OIIC spellbmamg vts1onary Anar€ ana the QUIZZICal. lumpy obtuse rat1onallst Wally ptay:ng a stubbornly orosa1c Watson 1J Anar~ s soanng Holmes 
January 28 
Kaspar Hauser (Every Man for Himself and God Against All) 119751 
Werner Herzog Germany color 110 m•n German wrth English Sub· niles Bruno S wno has appeared •n many ol Herzog s f1tms oorrrays Kaspar Mauser the young man who mystenously appears one day 1n a sma11 German tow,., 1n mag1cally compelling terms Based on a hiS!OfrCal event the film traces !hiS adul! wild cnlld s aCQUIS1!10n of culture ana language and the threat h1s na1vete poses for established soc1ety 
February 4 
Autumn Sonata "9781 
lngmar Bergman Sweden color 92 'T11n Swechsh w1fh Engt,sh ~uo­hl!es Tnts exp1ora110n of long,ng and guilt 1llum,nares the Ira,, yt>l ,ncestrucf,. 01e bonos that e'(lst Oetwee., rnome• and Oaugnter ,.,9''0 Bergman ana L1v Ullmann g1ve electqc performances 
Feoruarv 1 • 
The Last Wave ,•978> 
Pt:ter We1r Australia color 106 m1n A SOt:;llb•nO,ng thriller about the swpernatural 1n wn1Ct1 ar. Austrat.an lawyer aetend,ng l1ve abor,grr'leS agamst a murde• charge necOmes ~n­vo•vec 1n a ser,es at 1ncre3s,ng1y ,nexplicaOIP exoenences wh1Ch seem to come nat tram rnodern mans lrnear lime Out from tile aoor1g1ne s pnmeval dream t1me 
Febtua. v '8 
Chan Is Missing 11982> 
Wayne Wong USA color 89 m.n The !~tst .Ch•nese·Arner,can f11m lh1S ,ndepenaently produced f,lm nas a•reao~ ach•eved renown for rts senSII•ve portrayal ol a m1i1eu never before seen authen.t1Cal1y .on the screen Cnan juggles a suspense PlOT Wl!h sem,documentary footage 1n much ·the same way as I\Jeorea115m 
Feoruary :!5 
Claire's Knee·r,97D> 
Enc Ro"lmer France color 105 m,n French w1m EngliSh Subt,ltes Two plots 1ntertwrne m !hiS very tunny explorat,on ot modern mora111y A novehsT meets an Old lr1end by chance on no110ay ana oec•ces to use h1m as mater,al for her neV¥ book but th·s plot staus as the second ga,ns momentum-the tnena s grow1ng ObSeSSIOn w1th C•a,re s Kllee 
Marcn 4 
Circle of Deceit r19821 
Volker Schlondorfl Germany 108 m1n German w1th English subtitles Set '" the rubble ol C1v11 war-torn Berrul. Decel( 15 a compelling and lhOugtttful vtS•On of the tragedres of war Bruno Ganz plays a JOurnalrsJ whose aazea eyes mrrror the contuston of a war •n whrch everyone IS a vrCt1m 
Marcn 25 
Tragedy of a Ridiculous Man-(19811 
Berna roo Bertoluccr Italy color 11 8 mtn ltalran wrth Enghsh subtrtles An helf 15 captured by a oand of terrorrsts rn BertoluCCI s (Tne Conlorm­ISt Last Tango 'n Parrst latest commentary on the tragedres and absur­dt!leS at trvrng m a late technotog,cal socrety 
ADfl/8 
Confidence 119791 
Istvan Szabo. Hungary. color 104 mrn Hungar,an wl!h English sub1111es Two !Ug1t1ves g1ven false ldenti!IP.S as husband an" w11e t:Jy !he resrstance 1n (.Hder to evade the Naz1s W1th1n thrs 1cy enwonment of total parano1a the 111m IS also 1ntenc;ely romanhc as the two fug111ves (who never learn each other's real names) tall 1n love and expenence a total consum1ng mcandescent pass•on-romance Wllhout 1dent1!1eS Wlthour future 1n whiCh every encounter could I.Je the last 
April 15 
Montenegro ,'98•, Dusan Ma1<ave1ev Yugos1av1a ector. f.j7 m1n Absolutely anyth1ng goes at the Zanz1 Oar a gypsy hangout where bored hOusew,fe Susan Anspach f1nds a wild 11ew 1<1esty1e A fantasy tarce thai 01ends black humor With socral comment wh•le tak;,ng a sur­·~a. lOOk at sex love ana lite 
Aoru 22 
Lucia , 1 972> 
Humbert a So1as Cuba BtW 160 mm Span1sn w1tn Engltsn sub!1t1es A porHM of a woman 1n pre-anr:f posuevo1ul10nary Cuba. Luera balances n1stor,ca1 sweep ana prrvate drama 1n 11s dep1chon of soCial cnange Moreover Luc1a med•tates on the retahon of soc1al change to aesthetic forms g1v1ng us·each ol the 11'-n·s Three parts en a dilterentfllm style 
ADtr129 
Diva -'9821 
Jean-JaCQues Bem1ex France. ector 123 mrn French w•ln English sub­lilies A remarkably fresh and OfiQinat work at Jne torelront of a ktnd of French 1\ew W<Jve At the heart of thiS romantiC thnller-1980s style-•s an opera-tntox,cated 18-year-old ma1l carr,er who becomes unwrtllngly en­tangtea m a web of murder pass1on and mtr,gue 
~~~~-~~-­
, . ; . ., ­
-· 
---------------------------···-----------------·----·-----·--·-------­
The Observer Thursday, January 20, 1983-page 10 
~=====z~~~~~~~"w·~~:-%t?~~?~&$Y?~~~?#?#:~J/?#d@W#4o/J/$~ 
~~~ ~~ ll 
Friday, Jan 21 Saturday, Jan 22 ~ 
6:00 & 10:00 pm · · Eng. Auditorium $1.00 
~~~~~~~ 
~FLANNER STANFORD PW BP CAVANAUGH HOLY CROSS 

continuedfrom page 9 
Keady added. "These: kids art· so couragc:ous and work so hard, pressure doc:~n't sc:c:m to hmhc:r them." 
lliinois Coach Lou llc:nson said his tc:am defc:nsnl the: last shot wc:ll. 
"On the l:1.~t shot we wc:rc: trying to keep the hall outsidc: and when it lookc:d like: they wc:re in trouble: 
Palomhizio slippc:d in therc:." he 
said. "This was one of our bettc:r 
game~. If we can kec:p on playing this 
way, wc:'re going to he: all right." 
Illinois had a t chance: 10 win the 
game, hut Derek's Harper's 2';-foot 
~hot at thc: buzzer bangc:d off the 
rim. 
In the dosing minutes there wc:re li\'e ties and ti>ur lead changes, the last coming on Palomhizio'~ ha~kc:t. 
................................................................................................ 
FOR JUNIORS ONLY: 
......................................................................... ! 
i Juni'or Round Robin i 
~Basketball Tournament~ 
~IIIIIHAI.IHIIIIIIIINIIItllllllllllllltlltlllllllllllllllllllllllll_~~ 
at Stepan Center Captains Sign-up: Jan. 20 · 21 4:00· 5:00pm 5 players per team 
Men & Women Leagues $25 First Prize 
............................................................................................... 

• SPECIAL OFFER • 
BuY oNE ;rlingrliro
500 ML "'''"'" 
AT GET ONE l_ilf 
CASE a
gss OF ' 
' 
~ ·~ 
CELUR 
ISO Ml
VODKA oR GIN 3.99 
LORD CALVERT 
CANADIAN 1.75 LITER BEAM'S BLEND 1.75 LITER 
DARK EYES 
VODKA 750 ML 
899 ­
1.75 LITER 
1099 fl.
1.75 LITER 
799 !~
750 ML 
699 ... CANADIAN CLUB 750 ML 1Q99 ~~i~ 
I l 1.75 l " 
4.99 7.99 
999 :t
'"7 .~\ 
399:
a·· 
OLD MILWAUKEE 
REGULAR OR LIGHT 
59 
CASE OF 24 CANS 
,_...~ 
KEGS Old Milwaukee Miller Miller Lite Generic 
QUARTS Old Milwaukee Miller Lite Pabst 
27.99 31.99 31.99 23.99 
7.99 8.99 8.99 8.49 
YOU'RE WASTING YOUR MONEY BUYING ANYWHERE ELSE! 
~'RICES GOOD lHRU J,22 SOU IH ~lEND liVE_ STORE ONl t 
6 PACK CANS 
ILJI
~!Yl"'T' 6 PACK \Q.Jilil il CANS 
750ML McGUIRES IRISH CREAM 750 ML 
SABRA 750 ML 
DUCONTE 1.0 LITER 
(12 FLAVORS) 
FRANGELICO 500 ML 
DON'T FORGET THE KIDS! 
DELICIOUS 
SUNGLO 
POP 4~~SE 

. Hoops 
Tht: victon raised Purdue's over­all mark to .12-_-1, and _-1,-2 in the teague:. lllinoi~ is now 12·6 for the season and 2·_-1, in the Big Ten. 
Arkansas 69, TCU 55 
FAYETTE\'ILI.E, Ark. ( AP) -A sensational Arkansas defensive: effort in the second half liftc:d the: f(mrth· rankc:d Razorhacks roared w a 69-SS victory over Texas Christian last night. 
TCt" hit its fir~t sc:ven shots of the tlnal period to dose its detkit to -H­-! I. But Walker and Joe Kleine: each hit a· pair of shots around a TCl.1 buckc:t to make: n SZ--'1~ with H: IS remaining. 
Robertson tlnishcd with 1-l points as did john Snivdy. Darrell Browder 
lc:d the Horned Frogs with 12 points and Doug Arnold added I I. 
Arkansas is 14-0 for the season and ·l-0 in thc: Southwc:st Conference. TCU fdl to 12-4, including j-2 in thc: lc:ague. 
Memphis 100, Delta 62 
ME:\1PH1S, Tenn. ( AP) -Sopho­more forward Keith Lee scored 29 points to help sixth-ranked Memphis State breeze past Delta State I00-62 in a non-conference c·ollc:ge basketball game last night. 
The 6-10 Lee, three inches taller than anyone on the Delta State: ros­ter, also had a gamt·-high I_-1, rebounds as the Tigers ran their record to I j-1. 
Memphis State out·rehoundc:d the cold-shooting Statesmen -'18-26. Delta State managed only 26 of ~I shots for 38 percent from the tleld, while the Tigers hit 39 of 66 shots l~>r 59.1 percent. 
• • . School 
continuedfrom page 12 
c:xp16itation of athktes leavc:s these players out in the cold when their carc:ers arc: over. 
This danger will be one of the topics discussed in a CBS News documentary, "The Basketball Machine," which will be presented this evening at 10 p.m. on WSBT·TV. 
For Phdps' sake as well as everyonc:"s, all should watch. While these massive problems cannot be solved overnight, a little: awareness could produce a lot ofaction. 

Richard "D(r?,ger" Phelps 
LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! Omega Productions, Inc. is now opening their Mobile Music Division. We can provide any type of rr.usic for any type of event. Parties are our specialty. Custom music programming is available Call 684-8100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 
--~--------------~ ------------------------------------------------------------------------­
... . 
Ihe~r======~==================~========== 
~~4()l~~============================T=h=u=rs=d=ay='=J=an=u=a=ry==2=0=,1=9=8=3===p=a=g=e=l=l
Berke Breathed 


Bloom County 

Fate 
WOW', NO MORf HoCl\E'Y 
WHAT WILL 1 Vo? . 

· Campus 
•Lunchtime 
-Lunch Fast Sign-ups, Dining Halls, Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition 

•4 
p.m. -Radiation Lab Seminar, "Theory of the Spectrum and Structure of CH2," Dr. P.R. Bunker, Conference Theatre Rad. Lab­

• 
., p.m. -Candidates Informational Meeting, for all interested in running for Student Body Presi­dent and Vice President. and Student Government Offices, 2nd Floor LaFortune 

• 
.,, 9:30 p.m., & 12 a.m. -Film, "The Grateful Dead," Chautauqua Coffeehouse 

•":30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Extra-Terrestrial Life De:b~tc and Early 19th Century Religious Thought," Prof Michaei Crowe, Library Lounge 

•H 
p.m. -Fellowship of Christian Athletes Meeting, Holy Cross Hall ( SMC) 

•8:30 
p.m. -Candidates Informational Meeting, tor all interested in running for Student Senate, and Student Government Offices, 2nd Floor LaFortune 


·_ T.V. Tonight 


6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 5 ~-I Contac< 16 NBC Nightly r-.;ew' 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 34 !\1aking It Count 16 MASH 22 Laverne and Shirley 28 joker's Wild 34 The !\1acNeii/Lehrer Report 16 All in the Family 22 Family Feud 28 Tic Tac Dough 34 Straight Talk 
16 Fame 22 Magnum PI 28 Greatest American Hero 3/t All Creatures Great and Small 16 Cheers 22 Simon and Simon 28 Too Close For Comfort 34 :\Iyster)· 16 Cheers 28 It Takes Two 16 Hill Street Blues 22 1\.nots Landing 28 20/20 34 Sneak Preview' 
The Far Side 

"He was mo9nificent! Just magnificent! And I almost hod h1m! ... I can't talk about it right 
now." 
• 
• 
The Daily Crossword 

©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate. Inc. 
1/20/83
All Rights Reserved 

Don 't Miss this Movie! 
THE 

ULDEAD 
Thursday, Jan. 20 
YOuR. PROBLEMS. ~ 
I fl . 
ACROSS 26 Not so 1 Moisten in fresh a way 29 Legends 6 Moby Dick's 33 Corrida pursuer creatures 10 That was 34 Strong wind 
close! 35 Hot spot 14 -St. Johns 36 Once again 15 Fraternity 37 Cut and-
letter 38 Garden 16 Whit problem 17 Campanula 39 Paddy 
plant product 19 Very in 40 Melon 
Vichy covering 20 Blackbird 41 By itself 21 Half-human 42 Most horrid 
deity 44 Diverged 22 Go over 45 Chart of 
again lots 24 Dart about 46 Food for 25 Entity Pac·Man 
Wednesday's So1ution 

Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom $1 
47 Support, as a ruling 50 Skeletal part 51 One of the 
3 Stooges 54 Lymphatic 55 Wedding 
attendant 58 Facility 59 Red letters 60 Observes 61 Fabric 
colorer 62 Desi's co-star 63 Corpulent 
DOWN 1 Ali­2 Paradise 3 Cold cuts 
store 4 Building extension 5 Breakfast 
grids 6 Close to 7 Chopped 8 Had lunch 9 Double·­
(twice as 
powerful) 10 "Say it-" 11 Mid-East 
dance 
12 Soissons summers 13 Neighbor 
or Ore. 
18 Cozy retreat 23 BPOE member 24 Sloganof the'60s 25 Did a cob­
bler's job 26 Headliners 27 Pick·me-up 28 Betel palm 29 Obscure 30 Not hidden 31 Della­32 Completed 34 Grain for 
grinding 37 Horrible 41 Penn State 
coach 43 Cubs' 
state: abbr. 44 Corn cake 46 Bride's 
gift 47 Exploited 48 O'Neill 
product 49 Rubber tube 50 Autumn pear 51 Small 
person 52 Colliery finds 53 Ultimatum word 
56 Southern campus monogram 
57 Sailor 
&nior Bar 
GJ Vodka Tonic Special Tonight 

at Senior Bar open 9:30-2:00am 
... 
----------~--------~----~~-~--------­


• 
Freshman jim Dolan followed up his impressive Marquette per­fonnance with a big night against Bucknell yesterday at the ACC. Dolan's 14 points, 13 rebounds and 10-forlJfoul shooting keyed the Notre Dame win. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
Irish rip Bucknell as Dolan stars again 
By SAM SHERRILL 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame basketball team came out victorious last night in their final tune-up for Saturday's game with the Maryland Terrapins, whipping the Bison of Bucknell 64­
52. Bill Varner led the Irish with I7 points and Freshman Jim Dolan snared an amazing 13 rebounds to key the victory. 
As on Monday against Lafayette, the Irish appeared to be looking ahead a little to Saturday's televised match-up at Cole Field House. Head Coach Digger Phelps even admitted that he had been preparing for the Terrapins since Sunday; the assistant coaches made up the game plans for the two games this week. 
Early on. however, it looked as ifit didn't matter who came up with the game plan; the Irish raced to an 8-1 lead as Bucknell failed to hit a field­goal attempt in the first 5:29 of the game. The Bison could get no closer than three points the rest of the first half. 
Seniors john Paxson and Bill Var­ner led the way in the first twenty minutes, both collecting eight points on identical four-for-five shooting, while Dolan took ad­vantage of Bison foul trouble to hit nine of IO free throw attempts. Un­fortunately, the Irish got into some foul trouble of their own, with fresh­man Ken Barlow collecting three
• 
personals before eight minutes had gone by. 
As the teams went to the locker rooms at halftime, the Irish had an imposing 33-22 lead. But as play began in the second half, the Irish looked as tentative and unprepared as the Bison had at the game's start. They missed shots, turned the ball over, and collected more fouls as Bucknell ran off seven straight points to cut the lead to four. It took then' four minutes, but the Irish finally got some points on a Varner 
1 5-footer. Bucknell continued to hang tough, but a Tom Sluby slam dunk ~eemed to ignite the team, and
... 
points later un, the Irish were safely home with a 48-37 lead. 
The turning point of the game, in fact, came with 8:47 to play. Up to that point, the Irish had collected eight fouls. the Bison none. Over the next 4:10, however, the officials called the Bison for seven personals. During that same period. Notre Dame ran off an II-4 streak to salt this one away and send the team to its tenth victory, to equal last season's totaL 
Phelps wasn't ready to talk win to­tals or NCAA berths just yet. 
"Right now, Maryland is our main priority. We have a lot of respect for what Lefty (Maryland coach Driesell) is doing," said Phelps. " Hey, they beat UCLA (80-79 in double overtime), anti UCLA is No. 1 in the country. We should have Kempton back for that game. I could have put him in there tonight, but I didn't think it was necessary. 
"I thought John Paxson ( 12 points, 3 assists) was very unselfish tonight. He could have taken a lot more shots, but he looked for the open man. Varner ( 8 for 12, four as­sists) played well, and Sluby played a lot better ( 5 for 7)." 
Bucknell fell to 6-7. Losing coach Charlie Woollum seemed as satisfied as he could be with a loss. 
"I think the difference was that we weren't prepared for their match-up zone at first," said the Bucknell coach. " That really caught us off­guard. But I don't think we were in­timidated. But they sure do call the walk a lot more out here." 
A bigger factor was Irish defense on the Bison starting guards, holding them to combined 4-for-18 shoot­ing. 
The appetizers are out of the way, and the main course awaits a hungry Notre Dame five on Saturday. They'll take a 10-5 record into that contest, with the prize being increased na­tional respect. 
"I'd have been surprised if we 
didn't win ten games this year," 
Phelps commented. "Let's see what 
Academic integrity 
Phelps addresses S.D. reforms 
By WILl HARE 
Sports Writer 
While 1(>llowers of college ath­letics st-are in disbelief at the num­bers of schools on probation (currently, 14 Division I schools are penalized) last week's much publici!~d NCAA convention in San Diego attacked a more pressing issue: academic integrity. 
An article in The Sporting News published Oct. 25, 1982, revealed some shocking facts regarding an issue that had been swept under the rug by many coaches and athktic directors. 
According to the story, of the top I9 college basketball conferences in the country, a paltry 43.4 per cent of last year's seniors received their diplomas. Of those ranked, the Southwest Conference tlnished last with only ·i of l-1 seniors ( 16.7 per 
cent) graduating. And Rice Univer­sity supplied three of those players! 
Among other powerhouse con­ferences listed, the Atlantic Coast Conference graduated 7 of I9 ( 36.8 per cent), the Pac Ten had II of 27 
( 40.7 per cent) graduate, and the Big Ten had only 7 of 23 ( 30.4 per cent) of its players graduate. These embarassing statistics would make even the biggest ESPN basketball junkie blush. 
Despite implications of racism in­
volved with smaller schools from 
the South, tlrm action was taken. 
Athletic directors from around the nation approved new regula­tions requiring all students entering college to have a combined score of 700 on verbal and math Scholastic Apticude Tests or I 5 on the American College Testing Examina­tions. 
One of the primary advocates of this type of change in the system of college athletics is Notre Dame bas­ketball coach Digger Phelps. Throughout his tenure as coach of the Irish, he has addressed the cru­cial problems of the inherent incon­sistencies between intercollegiate athletics and education. 
Phdp~ was somewhat pleased by 
last week's activities. 
"First of all, over I00 college presidents showed up to emphasize the need for academic credibility for the student athlete," said the out­spoken Phelps. "Further, the new regulations have new passing re­quirements (a 2.0 average and I I college prep units) for the incoming freshmen." 
While rival coaches may disagree, 
Phelps' concern in these issues is 
genuine. 
For one, Phelps has recruited in the south as well as urban areas and feels a shift in the attitude of many parents in the area of academic responsibility. 
"I feel strongly that in some poor 
neighborhoods, parents are saying 
to their young sons and daughters 
that you will have a college prep 
background," added Phelps. 
"They've seen the exploitation (of 
athletes) that goes on in their own 
communities." 
Further. the new rules affect all 
high school athletes right now, 
including Phelps' son, Rick, a fresh­
man in high school with aspirations 
ofplaying college football. 
"When I heard of the new regula­
tions, I told my son, 'Rick, it (the 
legislation) went through so you 
have to take the college prep 
courses,"' stated Phelps. 
Yet there is always more to be 
done. 
While Notre Dame has tried to set 
an example for most Division I 
schools and has received national recognition for this fact. uncon­trolled circumstances at some major universities often lead to a disrup­tion ofacademic integrity. 
"The next phase is for college presidents to ~~t up progressive de­gree requirements," says Phelps. "There is not enough emphasis in progress to a degree." 
The racial implications of the NCAA action are also far-reaching. The use of ACTs and SATs as a legitimate war to judge a minority student's ability to do well in college is speculative:. 
The test~ have long been criticized as invalid for only apply­ing to white middle-class America. President Joseph johnson of Gram­bling echoed the sentiments of several presidents of black colleges by calling the convention's action "blatant racism." 
While Phelps agrees that some modifications for SAT anti ACT stan­dards can be modified for minorities, the essential issue is education in America. 
"As a parent, I'm concerned with what is going on in education," adds Phelps. "Once a good environment is provided, then comes a good school system. Then it is up to the kid himself." 
"In Detroit, out of 12.000 eighth graders, 8,000 become dropouts. The NCAA ruling puts it (the com­mitment to education) back in the high schools. Until we bring dis­cipline and curriculum back to the grade schools, then we won't be able to change this thing." 
';Onct: there is an awareness, then the next thing that comes is action." 
With less than 2 percent ofall col­lege basketball players eventually reaching the professional level. this 
See SCHOOL, page 10 
Colleges following a poor model 
There is nothing wrong with imitation. In fact, it of­ten has been said that imitation is the highest form of flattery. And so it is. 
Quite possibly, imitation is the most common and effective method oflearning known to man. Ifyou want to learn how to hit a baseball. watch George Brett; if it's talking out ofboth sides ofyour mouth that's ofinterest, listen to Pete Rozelle; if you find stuttering fascinating, pay close attention to JeffJeffers. There are, certainly, unavoidable drawbacks w this method oflearning. It is, for example, almost aiways the case that a child learns how to talk by listening to and imitating its parents. Which explain~ why Richard M. Daley was about as anxious to enter the Chicago mayoral debates as was joe B. Hall to play in the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter. 
If you're going to plunge headlong into imitation, you'd better make sure you've got a good role model. Various conferences within the NCAA, unfortunately, just don't seem to get it. Despite the fact that the on­court state ofcollege basketball is perhaps sounder than it's ever been, a tlstfui of conf<:rences have decided to tinker with the game. 
The most reprehensible of these modern-day Dr. Naismiths is the Atlantic Coast Conference. The ACC has consistenly been among the top four basketball con­ferences in the country, along with the Big Ten, the Southeastern and recently, the Big East. Nonetheless, the ACC has seen tlt to institute a 30-second clock and a three-point t1eld goal. 
The three-point line does not dramatically alter the nature of the game, and is tolerable aLcept for the fact that if the ACC's line were any closer to the basket, a free throw would he worth three points. The 30-second clock, however, amounts to rape, pillage and plunder of college basketball as we know it. 
Saturday afternoon, North Carolina and Virginia, two ACC national powers whose snail's pace game of last winter largely inspired the changes, played run-and­shoot. There was no strategy, no defense and nothing more ~han the live simultaneous games of one-on-one 
Craig Chval 
Sports Writer 
court. Or in anr i\'BA arena. 
The idea of the NCAA following the NBA's lead is al­most too ignorant for words. All around the NBA. teams are losing money and fans are losing interest. While the NBA begs for a watered-down television contract, two of the three major networks bump heads for the best college games. And there are more than enough to go around. The only thing bigger or better in the NBA is the players' contracts, albeit nor by much. 
Using the NBA as a role model to improve the game of basketball makes about as much sense as taking driving lessons from Leon Spinks. 
Once in a while, granted. the slowdown game is a little boring. But two years ago, when Notre Dame last defeated Kentuck-y, Digger Phelps effectively used a modified delay. And I fmd it diftkult to believe that any of the people who packed Freedom Hall that night ­whether they were Irish or Wildcat fans -were the least bit bored. 
Certainly, there are other times when stalls are nor so breathtaking. But rather than dramatically changing the very fabric of the game, the NCAA should leave basket­ball to its evolutionary process. 
In all sports, progressive coaches invent new strategies and wait for the rest of the world to copy them and ca'tch up. Sooner or later. somebody will devise an effective way to combat the four corners of­fense and similar delays. That kind of intellectual chal­lenge, above and beyond the raw physical talents and grace, is one of the real beauties ofsport. 
Unless the NCAA tlnds something oddly attractive about empty sears and red ink. it had better rethink its 
when Dolan scored five straight we can do from here." that you'll t1nd on any city playground or Bookstore NRA copy-cat mentality.
-
