Medical plan-page 4 

VOL XVIII, NO. 40 the indepemknt s!Udent m:wspaper st:r\"ing notn dame and saint man··., THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1983 

University orders Observer to join budget or lose funds 
ByJEFF HARRINGTON 
Assistant News Editor 
(c) 1983, The Observer 
The University administration has asked The Observer to join the Uni· versity budget program by Jan. I or face the cutoff of approximately 
S70,000 in ND student fees. 

The University request is a result of a University·conducted audit of tht· student newspaper last summer whkh revealed a $7,000 deficit from last year's Obsenwr operation and several cases of financial mis­management by members ofthe '82­'83 Observer general board. (See sidebar below). 
The Observer board yesterday submitted a counter-proposal to the University plan. The proposal calls for the hiring of an independent ac­countant to perform an annual audit 
'A newspaper cannotbeindependeni if it's not running its own finances' 
-David Dzieul.ic 

and the establishment of an alumni board of directors to act as the ul­
timate  governing  body  of  the  
newspaper.  
According  to  the  Observer  

proposal, which was sent to Univer­sity President Father Theodore Hes­burgh, the board would meet twice annually to approve the annual budget and review monthly income statements, among otherduties. 
In submitting the plan, Editor-in­Chief David Dziedzic said he "never had the intention of going along with the (University) proposal. I've always been opposed to anyone but The Observer handling the Ob­server's money. 
"The feeling was and still is ... whoever controls the money con­trols the business. If the University can refuse to sign our checks, then it can dictate our policy." 
Managing Editor Margaret 
Fosmoe, who supervises newspaper content, echoed this concern with editorial power over The Obseroer: "Financial decisions made in a paper determine its editorial content. It would always be ihreatening . . . if the financial aspect and editorial 
aspect are connected." 
The University does not plan on exercising any editorial control of the content of the paper, according to Father John Van Wolvlear, vice president for student affairs. 
"Father Hesburgh insists that they 
have complete editorial freedom. 
Otherwise it's not an independent 
newspaper," Van Wolvlear said. 
"Number one, they are editorially 
free (under the University budget 
system); number two, they will have 
financial accountability." 
The University request would place The Observer under Notre Dame's Unit Budget Control System. The newspaper would be required to issue monthly accountability statements to the University, and the University would have the right to review The Observer's annual budget. 
The Observer is the only student 
organization that currently does not 
have any type of University accoun­
!ability, ac.:oruing to Tom Mason, 
vice presicieiii fGr !Jusiness affairs 
and supervisor of the unit i:ml!i;!:! 
system. 
Mason said that transferral to the 
University system would be "far 
more organized" for The Observer, 
and he added that he feels the move 
is long overdue. 
The Observer proposal of keeping 
financial accountability in the hands 
ofthe paper "is not accountability at 
all," Mason said. 
"You need to be accountable for 
your decisions, and you must be ac­
countable to someone outside, not 
just yourself" 
Fosmoe agreed that The Observer 
has "an obligation to provide the 
University with accountability" 
since the paper does receive student 
activities funds. She added, 
however, that the accoumability 
"has to come from a third party 
outside the administration." 
Fosmoe said hiring an outside 
auditor to look at the books would 

clear up the accountability problem while avoiding University control at the same time. "If (the University) handles the money, it would deserve to have some say. "We're under their jurisdiction with the unit budget system . . . we would be technically part ofthe University." 
Not all members of The Observer general board agreed with the counter-proposal sent to the ad­ministration. Obseroer Business Manager Dan O'Hare and Controller Alex Szilvas both questioned the wisdom ofThe Obseroer's decision. 
"It was a business decision made 
by the editorial board and not a wise 
one from a financial standpoint," 
O'Hare said. "Without the student 
activity money Jan. I, we will not 
publish for all of next semester ... 
we cannot make it through. You 
can't have news without money." 

Szilvas also said he doubted the 
paper could survive without help 
from the administration. "With 35 
See ORDER, page 5 

The Observer ITom Brown
Step to the music 
jody Campbell and Tom Dugan tune up their waltzing skills at ballr~om dancing classes last night in the basement of Regina Hall at Saint Mary's. Tbe lessons were started up for students who may know how to rock to the beat but lack ballroom grace. The 7 
p.m. classes are taught by Ray Sexton. 


Audit shows deficit last year 
ByjEFF HARRINGTON 
Assistant News Editor 
A.~ internal audit of The Observer operational--..n-~~:.~~ last summer reflected a deficit of S7,206 t~r :~~ year's operation fromJuly I, I982 to 
May 3I, I983. 

Louis Cohen and William McKin­ney, both in the University's internal audit department, said in their report that the audit also showed several "discrepancies" in the finan­cial operation ofthe newspaper and made recommendations to correct the problems. 
Observer Editor-in-Chief Dave Dziedzic said the University asked The Observer to undergo an audit af­ter last year's general board re­quested a fee increase from $5 to S6 per student in March to be used as Observer funds. 
Father John Van Wolvlear, vice president for student affairs, said the audit was also conducted because of "indications of irregularities" in Ob­server finances. "We were tipped off by a member ofstudent government that there was something awry," Van Wolvlear said. "He mentioned inci­dents later brought out by the report." 
Among the questionable items and suggesi:i~!'!~ for correction listed in the audit by Cohen aiil! !':!rK.in­ney: 
• 
No budget had been prepared for the fiscal year through May 3I, I983. The report suggests The Ob­server draw up a budget for next year. 

• 
No actual set of books for all statements was compiled; the report recommends implementation of a double entry bookkeeping system "maintaining appropriate journals and ledgers." 

• 
A personal loan of Sl,OOO was issued to Bruce Oakley, systems manager, for the '82-'83 fiscal year, with interest free repayment. 


Forty-one checks totalling $13,274 were signed by only one management employee, conflicting with Obseroer policy of having two 
managment signatures on each check issued by The Obserz1er. 
• More than $1,430 was paid in bonuses to the top three manage· ment personnel -the editor-in­cniei, i:;;2 ~~~!~~ss manager, and the controller for paintiri~ !he newsroom in May, I982. 
u.C:i<:~?:]C said The Obseroer has "always had a deiicii ;;;:~never made money. The Obseroer's accountirii; system has been lacking in the past . . . There were plenty of abuses. There's no denying that." 
Observer Managing Editor Mar­
garet Fosmoe questioned the fair· 
ness ofthe audit, however, since the 
auditors released the report July I 
without talking to the auditees or 
anyone implicated in the report. 
In their report, Cohen and Me Kin· ney admit that the usual practice is to allow the auditee to review the findings of the audit before the report is officially released to make for "a clean report without any am-
See AUDIT, page 6 

ND organizers decide to pay $50 for senior Bahamas trip 
ByJOE INCARDONA 
StaffReporter 
The four Notre Dame organizers of next week's senior class trip to the Bahamas have decided to pay SSO each for the package after class officers questioned the organizers' plans to send some of the seven-member group for free. 
Senior class officers called a meeting with the Bahamas committee last week to discuss what Senior Class Treasurer Bill Kirk called "a serious error in judgment." 
According to members of the Bahamas 
committee, First Source Travel ofSouth Bend, 
the agency handling the trip, offered as part of 
its bid compensation which amounted to free 
accommodations for each committee mem­
ber and two free airfares. 
Kirk said the class officers "don't think the 
committee has done anything ethically 
wrong .... We'd like to see it corrected. If 
they feel like they have done that by each 
paying S'50, then they're going to have to 
answer for it. We've just brought it to the at­tention of the Senior Class because we think it's an important issue." 
Kirk, who said he was speakingfor the other class officers, argued that the Bahamas com­mittee's failed to conform to the way other student groups in the past have handled com­pensation. Kirk said it has been precedent for gifts or discounts to be distributed evenly to the entire class. 
The Bahamas committee was appointed by last year's junior class president Mark Ruehlmann and consists of four Notre Dame students (including Ruehlmann) and three Saint Mary's students. 
"We said at the meeting with the commit­tee that we felt that this was not consistent with what's been done in the past -not just with the senior class trip but also with other committees like the one which handlesJunior Parents' Weekend," Kirk said. 
"We didn't know exactly what was being 
given, so we asked them that first," said Kirk 
"They said there were seven people involved 
in the committee -five of them were going 
entirely free, and two of them were going for a reduced rate of 589.50. That was a big surprise to us, because we thought at most there were five on the committee." 

Ruehlmann, speaking on behalfofthe com­mittee, denied Kirk's assessment of the situa­tion. "That wasn't accurate," he said. "At the time of the meeting, the four of us (the stu­dents representing Notre Dame on the com· mittee) would have been going for free, and the Saint Mary's students would have each ac­tually been paying I think around $II0." 
Much of the controversy centers on a SI2 "administrative" fee attached to the original trip price of 5398 -a standard practice according to the Office ofStudent Activities. 
The committee members said $2.50 from 
each student's $I2 fee went to cover partial 
compensation for each committee member's 
airfare. Committee member Tom Grojean said 
the total amount of compensation came from 
only the number of Notre Dame students 
going on the trip ( 39 of the 200 are Saint 
Mary's students), and came out to be around 
$400. 
Ruehlmann said that before meeting with the senior class officers, the committee planned to use $600 out of the total money collected from the administrative fee. 
"We were told by the class officers that past class trip committees had only received S400 in total compensation from student-donated funds, so the four of us agreed to pay 550 a piece to conform to that past figure," Ruehlmann said. 
But Kirk said last night that where the com­pensation came from is "not our contention." He said that total compensation to the com­mittee this year -four trips at S41 0 minus the SSO the members are paying -comes to SI ,440. 
"That's far in excess ofwhat has been given 
(to the committee) in the past," Kirk said. 
Kirk also complained that unlike past years 
the trip committee didn't hold a raffle in 
which a senior could win a free trip. "In the 
past, there's always been a free trip raffled off, 
and that didn't happen this year," said Kirk 
Members of the committee, however, said 
see TRIP, page 6 


.. 
The Observer Thursday, October 20, 1983-page 2 


In Brief · 
One Cap'n Crunch treasure chest was found Tues­day by Bob Kempf, a senior from St. Ed's, and Kathleen Johansen, a senior from Saint Mary's. The treasurer chest was hidden behind a booked titled Breakfast Table Autocrat in Memorial Library. The lxx>k describes the founding ofthe Quaker Oats Co., makers ofCap'n Crunch. The second treasure chest rerruains to be found. -Tbe Ob­
s~ 
·. 1beNo~ DameBoardofTNSteesmeets 
ino:l1111llittt.~ today,with adaylongSt:SSion ofthe entice board settOr tomomJW. 11lt: Student AJfairs Committee of the board, a 15­mt.mhcrpand chairt."d by New York alunmus Anthony Earley, meets all day today. 11lt: committee visitt."d Counsding and Psychological St:rvict.-s and the Plactment Bureau this morning, and will meet with a group of minority students for lunch. A meeting with student government officials is set for 2 this afternoon. Much oftomom>w's mt.Tting of the fi.JII hoard will deal with reports from the trustees' seven committees. The Board ofTrustees meet-; in fi.tll twice a year, once in the fall and once in May.-7be0bseroer 
American SCientiStS WOn the 19H3 Nobel prizes 
in physks and chemistry yesterday, completing the first U.S. sweep sinct: 1976 of all tht· prestigious science awards. The announce­ments by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in Stockholm, Sweden, continued an Am<:rican dominance of the science prizes since World War II. Laureates announced yesterday were astrop­hysicists Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar of the University ofChicago and William A. Fowler ofthe California Institute ofTechnology, who shart:d tht· physics prize, and Ht:nry Taube of Stanford University. Chandrasekhar and Fowler, the second pair ofastrophysicists ev<:r to win tht· Nobd Prize, were honored for pioneering work on th<: t.•volution of stars. Taubt· won for identifying the process through which ions jump bt·tween mokcules, hdping to explain how plants makt· food, how batteries work and other common chemical reac­tions.-AP 
Safe, routine ultrasoundexams given as early as the fourth month ofpregnancy will accurately rev<:al whether a fetus is a boy or a girl, two studies show. l :ttrasound, whkh uses sound waves to take pinurcs oftht· unborn child, is often ust·d to check the fl'tus li1r birth ddi:cts and monitor growth. Although tht: test has btTn availahlt-t(1r St'\Tral year~. imprmTd equipment provides such clc:ar imagt·~ that doctors frcqul·ntly can set· the fetus' sex organs to dc:tt·rminl· ~l'X. -AI' 
T~ L . ' 
Jdllles ewts attorney acknow!~~~ni yestt'fday that hi~ dit·nt wrote a kttl'f dt·man•J:;-1g :$1 million to "stop the kill· ing" of Chicag<htr•::! ~:.:~itients by cyanide-laced Tyknol. hut denied that !.:.:·wis inremkd to carry our an extortion threat. Instead, defense lawyt-r Michad Monico told a federal jury in his opening statement, Lewis intt·ntlt-d to t·xpose financial misdeeds by his wife's former c:mployer. Ll·wis, Y", is on trial for attempted extortion stemming from a kttcr rt'lTivt·d last fall by Johnson & Johnson, makers of Tyknol, during a wavt' of random killings that lt-ft seven dead. No one: has blTn cl1arged in the: murders. -AP 
Of Interest 
Sorin Hall is sponsoring a pep rally tonight at 
H:50 on tht· ~tl·p~ of the dorm·~ porch. Featured speakt-rs include running hack Alan l'inkl·tt and ttuarterback Steve lkuerldn. Oftlct'f Timothy McCarthy. the: man who warns fans to drive sakly, will make: a gul·~t appl·ar;tlll'l'. -The ()IJser!'er 
Students who have not picked up their 
Nor rl· I>arm· identification ctrd~ ~hould do so as soon as po~siblt-al tht· rq.:i~trar'~ office. room 21 <;of the: Administration Building. Both tnnporary llh mu~t bt· turnnl in bt·fort· a pt-rmant·nt card will be is~unl. -'/be (JIJS<'rt'l'l' 
A debate between a Notre Dame professor and a Michigan congressman about l'nirnl States fordgn policy in Nicaragua will bt· featured on WNIT-TV's "Straight Talk" program today and tomorrow. Alexandl'f Wildt·. visiting associate proft·ssor of gon·rnment and international studies and a ft.·llow of the llniver­sity'~ Kellogg lnMitute, criticizes l'.S. policy, whik Rep. Mark Siljan­dc:r ( R...\lkh ), a member of the lloust· Foreign Affairs Committee, dd't·mb it. Tht· program, broadcast onchannd 5-t, will air at (J:50 and 
I 0 p.m. on both nights. -'/be OIJsen•er 

A 60 percent chance of rain today. Cool with high in tht· low to mid 50s. A 50 percent chance of rain tonight and tomorrow. -AP 


Slow Death humor magazine brings life to grave campus 
A comedian can only last till he either takes himself serious or his audience takes him serious. Will Rogers 

ll's refreshing to read good hulllOI' -especially at the expelllie of academians, ckrics and politicians. Slow Deatb, a humor mapziae jast publbhed by &vc Not~re Dame seniors, wbo caD themselves tbe tf.ll Hominf!m Club, have put together a chaHengc to rhc mediocre comedy of bathroom stalls and alumni clad in bright green pants. 
Cap'n Crunch swings over six alligators on the front cover; nuns pray next to a group of eating utensils on the back cover -Slow Death revels in what Bill Cavanaugh, one of the magazine's editors, calls "complete absurdism." 
Brian Stanley, another one of theAdHominems, says the idea for the magazine came to the group when the five were in London last semester with the Arts and Let­ters junior year program. 
Discussions during weekly appears in this issue. I am meetings at a local pub appalled at your in­produced the germ for the 
sensitive treatment of this 
magazine. 
1'('1J' delicate time in a "Since Notre Dame 
couple's life together. The 
doesn't have a humor 
naming of a baby wt/1 af­
magazine and since there is 

fect it throughout its entire 
definitely a need for one, we 
life, and it is simp~y ir­
decided to get together," 
responsible to suggest
says Stanley. 
naming it "Xrtnf" I am 
The challenge facing the 

reminded of the 'No Fat 
five is not so much a chal­
Chicks' incident of a few 
lenge of having to spend 
years ago. This is a disgrace. 
their own money for the free 
Name withheld
magazine -they published and distributed the I,200 copies of the first issue, to 
Response to the magazine men's dorms only, for ap­
has been "very positive," proximately S l 00 -but the 
says Cavanaugh, who terms
SLOW DEATH
sense of humor of the Notre Dame community, which Stanley says ranges from "poor at the administration level to scatological at the 
student level." 
So why the name Slow Death? Cavanaugh says the title "means absolutely nothing." The reason for Slow Death however, is far from meaningless. According to 
an editorial note on the la:.;t page cf thk i..:'-•u~ Slou' Death "was horn our of the apallin~ I;~·~ ~;f·~-~muine major-university typc humor magazine (no! t~) lncntion lack of humor) on this ~:-::~uiated and womb-like 
campus ..." 
~ condensation of Luke's <Jospd is one ofthe ways in which Slou• Death hopt:s to raise Notre Dame's humor quotient: 
Okay, there's this guyjesus, right? And be gets burn r)llerin Israel, on~y hegoes to Egypt for a wbile because they want to get him and because be was born in this barn. And be grows up and it turns out be's the Son of God, so be says a bunch ofrealIcY wise things and they 
I
r---------------------~-----------------•I 
_The_Obs.erYer__ 

THE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
I 
(.omfu,sifi(m l~'ditor . ........ <:arolt: l.augkr (.'runposition Assistanl . ..... ( :llri!'> Bowkr l'}•p(•setters.......... . ......... Vic and Uill Neu•s l:'dilor. ............................. ~1arr llcaly Cop)' Fditor.... ...................... 1\.t'\'in Bingt·r .\ju1r/s Copl' Etlitnr... ....... ,\1an.: Ramirt·z 
Editorials f.t~l'Olil .................... Tom Small /\//)Dell' Ftlitor ................. MdinUa Moon· .\JfC Dc~l' Fditor... .......... Mary Ann Potter Ad /Jesip,u .. ............... Boh Slota Pbolop,rctjJher.. ...................... Tom Brown Ciu'·~;t Ajlpt•arclltt'L'S.. Kelly the.: Markc.:tmg (Jut·c.:n, Snuggk.... and four holh} Sword~ 
\\ t' an: du~c.:d now! 
ronight I'm living in a t~mtasy, my o\\ n 
linlt-na..,ty world 
\'anil)' 6 
The ObMrver (USPS 599 2-4000) IS published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The ObMrver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's College Subscnpttons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wntlng The Ob~erver. P 0 Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Oblerver 1s a member of The Auocl8ted PreM. All 
reproduction nghls are reserved 

APPLICATION DEADLINE NOVEMBER 1st 
~-------------.....'--------------------------------------1 
I 
I 
Santiago 

Paul McGinn 
start capitalizing His pronouns. And then tbese guys get really mad and they kill Him, only He doesn't die, see? Exceptfor three days, and then He comes backand saves tbe world. 
But theAdHominems also parody the ways in which many hypocritical students, who treat every con­troversy as a moral issue, sermonize newspaper readers through "Letters to the Editor": 
Sir, dear: I am writing in response to the article "How to Name Your Baby," which 
the issue "a good !lr~t d-
fort." 
Is Slow Death a one-timt: deal? "No way," says Stan­
ley, who wants to get more underclassmen involved in 
the next issue which he expt:cts will appear before 
Christmas. The magazinc runs on no timetable -Slmt• Death's publication schedule is "sp~li'u>dic," he says. 
While some o!' ~!~;: si:ories and poems in Slmt• /Jeatb ~-~~ i.-y no means acccptahle to prudes, each pil'ce is in its own way tastefully donl·. 
Notre Dame students take thl'msdves too seriously -between studying for tests. writing tc:rm papers, and reading The Ohser1•er, tht:re isn't much timt: to laugh. Slow Death, then, is a wdcome change. After all, Notre Dame needs a good laugh t:very once in a while, evt:n if that laugh is at itself. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe editorial board or staff. 
I I I I I I I
.. 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

I 
SENIORS CONTACT: 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS Mary Ann Roemer 239-5293 
I 
I 



The Observer Thursday, October 20, 1983 -page 3 


on all sides of the dorms to warmly welcome the Trojans to Notre Dame. The Student Union is con­tributing 575 as an award for the best banner, to be judged on Friday from Noon to 4:30p.m. 
Two meetin~ were held for stu­
dents who wished to start a spirit 
campaign for the game, <~end the idea 
of building the Trojan Horse was 
presented to the Hall Presidents 
Cquncil..,··~verybody was ,behind it 
1oo percent,'' said ward: :-

Deim Roemer was pleased with the idea, said Ward, and when the group went to Coach Faust, Ward told him, "You give us eleven fine players, and we'll supply the twelfth." 
Ward found generous donations 

from the community in making the 
project. 
The South Bend Tribune con­
tributed paper for the banners and 
the Student Union gave S75 for the 
production of posters to be spread 
around campus. Hardware supplies 
as well as food and drinks for those 
working on the spirit project were 
offered by many other local es­
tablishments. 
Ward wanted to stress that the 

students get involved in the promo­
tion ofspirit for the football team. 
"Our slogan is, 'The Spirit is Back,' 
" he said. "We've got to bring back 
the spirit that has existed through­
out the last 100 years here at Notre 
Dame." 

Those who are helping to reconstruct the reproduction of the ancient war machine are confident that history will repeat itself. This time, however, instead of a Greek victory, it will be the Irish who overcome the Trojans. 


Orientation begins today for regents 

By REBECCA HETLAND 
News Staff 
An orientation program for newly inducted members of the Saint Mary's Board of Regents will begin today, and will kick offa weekend of meetings and scheduled activities. 
The program includes presenta­tions on the history of St. Mary's as well as a presentation on student government by Student Body Presi­dent Elaine Hocter. 
Hocter, also a s_s;cond year mem­ber ofthe Commitee on Student Life, estimated that ten students are directly involved in the board's various committees on investments, education and student life. 
Last year's board meetiHg revolved around changing the parie­tals on the St. Mary's campus. Hocter maintained that nothing of this sort of caliber will be discussed during the first meeting ofthe Board. 
Katy Whelahan, this year's student regent, serves as primary mediator between the students and the Board. As a student regent, she is required to participate in all regent activities which range from a series of meetings and dinners, and conclud­ing with the football game on Satur­day. 
Whelahan noted the topic of discussion for the student life com­mittee will be the Catholic character of St. Mary's, while the committee for eductaion will concentrate on the foreign studies program. 
Since the orientation program is the first of the two meetings which will be held in the course ofthe vear Whelahan and the rest ofthe stu.den~ committee members could not predict all topics to be discussed. 
The Cap'n is here 
The cereal character's controversial visit to campus bas begun and the Cap'n can be seen in the dining balls or riding a golfcart around the quads. He is shown here in South Dining Hall 
~


~ ~RIDGfl ~cGUIRf'S 
·­

REGULAR SPECIALS Mon. &Tues. 7-10pm 25c BEERS Wed. -7 -CLOSE 2 for 1 House Drinks Thurs.-7-CLOSE Molson $1 
ACROSS STREET FROM CAMPUS 
1340 S. Bend Ave. 
234-1114 
REE POSTERS OPEN Tl LL 
The Observer/Tom Brown 

with Paulette Heuring and Barb Stevens, two of the four Cap'n Crunch look-alike contest win­ners. 

TROUNCE TROJANS SPECIALS!!! Break Away Happy Hour ..... _........................ 4-7 Friday· BEER & DRINK SPECIALS 7-11 Beat the Clock· Housedrinks 
Starts at $.50 & Goes Up a Dime Every Hour Saturday . 11·5................... $2.50 Pitchers (any brand) 2 for 1 SCREWDRIVERS & BLOODY MARYS 

PRINTIN.G SERVICE-
New·Replacing campus Press Bring camera-ready poster art to S.U. RecordStor& 
for your posters and table tents 
Notre Dame 


SUNNYSIDE BEVERAGES 
-----------DRAFT BEER-----------­BRAND COST D£POSI1 TOTAL 
112 BARREL PABST 29.50 PABST llT 30.50 ANDHER R50 BlA11 27.00 OLD STYlE 31.00 OLD STYLE L T 32.00 SP. EXPORT 35.00 DRENRYS 27.00 BRAUKE ISTER 25.00 AUGSBURGER 31.00 HUBER 25.00 SCHLJ IZ 31.50 SCHLITZ Ll 3i. 50 OLD mMAUI:EE 29.00 OLD "ILMAUI:EE L T ]0.00 SCHI.IT! "ALl LIQUOR 34.00 SCHLJ Tl DAil~ 31.50 
5J.on

5:00 Weekdays :~~011 AL~~~DY 
70.00 

2:00 Saturdays KEG BAG 2.00
INCLUDED 
HAND PU"P 1. 00 CUPS 111001 uo CUPS IICSE 10001 02.50 ICE liB LB B61 2.Sil 
TUB ].fill

GO IRISH!! 
COIL BOI 50.00

BEAT USC!! 
ELECTRIC BOI " 60. (t(l HOPSE IAN~ 15.00 
b. 00 15.50 
b. 00 lb. so b.OO ~0. so 6.00 J:l. ~0 b.OO 37.00 b.OO 38.00 b. 0(1 ~I. 00 b. 00 JJ.OO 6.00 31.00 b.OO .Jl. 00 b. 00 )1.00 6.00 37.50 b. 0(1 JB. ~0 b.OO 15.00 b. 00 )b.OO b.OO 40. no b. 0(1 37.5Q b. 00 59. (IO b. 00 76.00 
2.00 ~0.00 ~3. 00 
~.(II) 
)2. 50 
2. 50 15.':10 18.110 i0.00 120,!~ 
bO. 00 35.00 50,11(1 

Students, prof. join to build Trojan horse 
·---------------------------------------, 





WOMEN!! 
Now that we have your attention, we would 

like to announce a support group for women at Notre Dame/St. Mary's. It is being sponsored by the Womens' Caucus and run by the 
• Couseling & Psychological Services Center. Beginning Date: Wed., Nov. 2,1983 Time: 3:30 . 5:30 p.m. Place: Counseling & Psychological Services Center 
(3rd floor of Student Health Center) Come by or call C &PSC at 239-7336 to sign up for the group 

·---------------------------------------· 
Student Savings Card Blurry? 
CaD the eye care professionals and receive 20 percent off your glasses 
complete eye exam contact lenses glasses your prescriptions filled 

Professional 
Dr. R. Snyder
Vision 


Dr. P. Albert
Associates 
1635 N. Ironwood 1 block north ofMcDonald's 



277-1161 


The Observer Thursday, October 20, 1983-page 4 
Faculty Senate voices displeasure, confusion about new medical plan 
By PATRICIA CARROLL 
1\'l'II'S Sl<~lf 
The Faculty Senate is confused about the l :nin·rsity's newly in­~tilutnl meJkal covcra~c plan. and at the senate mtTtin~ Tuesday ni~ht they discussed their dissatisfaction with tht· plan's lack of clarity and consistency. 
The main points of confusion are wht'lht·r mnlidnal costs arc covered in the plan. what limits exist in tinandal coverage, and how the 
l :niversity's  medical  insurance  
policies  arc  rclatnl  to  Blut· Cross  
anti Blut· Shciltl.  
Exasperatnl  hy  outdated  

pamphkts and conllicting verbal reports and figures, the senate mem­bers unanimously called for the llni· versity personnel office to produce a dl'tailcd synopsis of the health policy in layman's language. 
In addition, the senate moved that as soon as such a report was availahk it should he st·nt to all htculty members. 
"As a ~roup. we arc very disillu­sioned hy the personnel office," said Pro fcssor jay Dolan. "They seem to han· t;rllen down on things. The fantlty shouldn't he doin~ this work, they (the Personnel office) should be rt·sponsibk for it." 
llowevcr. Mario Bordli. prt•sident of tht· Faculty Senate, noted that progress is hein~ made towards contacting otht·r companies and considering bids regarding health bent·tit plans. A report on such a plan will be presented at next month's meeting 
Professor Donald Barrett. chair­
man of the senate committee on 
faculty affairs, also read a committee 
report on faculty compensation, and 
said he helieved it "imperative to 
recognize what ... has been done in 
the area of raising faculty salaries" 
on the part of the Administration. 
According to his report, the pay 
f(Jr full professorship has gone from 
S2H,OOO to over $50,000. Barrett 
stated that, although the increase is 
somewhat overshadowed by the 
high concentration of assistant 
professorships ranked among the 
faculty, it should be appreciated by 
the faculty as a "signal accomplish­
ment." 
Barrell's report also stated that 
ten percent of Notre Dame's 
research and teaching staff of five 
hundred are women -a figure which 
Barrett thought was poor when 
compared to peer institutions. 
"Though this difference may be 
explained by length of tenure and 
status," said Barrett, "it is one which 
must bt· further investigated." 
Lack of adequate social space and the usc of refrigerators for alcoholi< beverages were suggested reasons among the faculty for the campus al­cohol problem. The issue was briefly Jiscussed in the stuuent affairs com­mittee report given by chairman Theresa Phelps. 
Phelps said she is currently correlating the results of a faculty questionnaire concerning the problem. 
Borrelli approximated figures from the Psychological Services Center which he said concluded that "75% of Notre Dame students use alcohol and 30% abuse it." Bor-

AGOSTINO'S

....,.• Welcome Football Fans 
&Local Patrons 

Step 
802 S. Walnut St. Southltncl 232·2494 Tole• Eddy St.,1a s-n,.~e, tum Right on Walrwt 


Your Favorite Coddails, Family Rooma and Prlva.. Entr-.ce. 8onquet'.tfQO.na Available with optfqn to Cr~te Your Own Menu. 
··gQowettg fptt aQQ oceagto"g" 
Come in and Browse 
327 lincolnway 232--3354 

Mixed Drinks 3-8pm Drafts 
Corby's Fall Break Kickoff . 2 for 1 
... 60¢ 
relli compared these to the national average of 50% use and 20% abuse. The senate seemed to agree that the problem was accute at Notre Dame. 
Phelps mentioned the Admissions survey of the faculty on the "ideal student," the result~ of which she said should spur the senate and all faculty to question, "what uniform profile do we encourage ofstudents, what things do we value," and "are we rewarding the people meeting these goals?" 
Borelli expressed his appreciation of University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's attendance at the meeting and hoped that both the Administration and the student body would continue to take an in­terest in the activities of the Faculty Senate. 
FREE PIZZA Bay any size Pizza Light 
"2 Great Pizzas for 1 
Cl 
Low Price"
0 go and receive the B identk:al Pizza FREE. 
Pizza Light Delivery-$1.00 Polish Prince f'fueria 
272-80!JO 
a:p.:~ 


Restricted imports 
Sen. Bill Armstrong ( R-Col.) announced at a news conference Tuesday that he will introduce legislation to require enforcement against tbe Soviet Union ofa law tbat prohibits import ofgoods made with forced labor. On the table are wooden dolls made in Russia. 
~-F·R-EEPEPSI 
16 oz. NR bottl­whlle suppli-la•t 
4 Free Pepsi's 
with any regular menu 17"Plzza S 3 Free Pepsi's 111 
with anv regular menu 
g
14"Plzza 
2 Free Pepsi's 
with any regular menu 12"Plzza 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the "Terrace Lounge" South Bend's largest 34 oz. tankard of beer is only 





$2.50 
(Sorry. No mug sales this year.) 
SOUTH BEND ~QrrtOtf HOTEL 
J:i:l 'I; St..Jost>ph SlrP\'l. South Hend. Indiana 46601 



The Observer Thursday, October 20, 1983 -page 5 
• 

continuedfrom page 1 
percent of the monev in student fees, it would be impossible (to pub­lish) without a large donation from someone. 
"We can't raise revenue and cut 
circulation at the same time. We 
can't run the same number ofads in a 
smaller paper. To increase ads, we'd 
have to increase space and increase 
costs." 
Van Wolvlear said The Observer 
would retain "complete control" 
over its own financial operations un­
der the unit budget plan, adding that 
formulation of the budget and deci­
sions on how to spend money would 
remain under the newspaper's 
realm. 
He said, however, that last sum­mer's audit indicates that the paper opens itself up to "free embezzle­ment" when the top three manage­ment personnel are only responsible to themselves. 
"Any outfit that can take in practi­
cally 5250,000 and does not have a 
budget does not have control over 
where money goes," he said. "No 
department in the University has 
free reign ofthe money given to it." 
Van Wolvlear said hiring an 
outside firm to audit the books of 



GETLUCKYJ Bannisters 
' LOUNGE 
2 for 1 APPY HOUR 
~Monday thru Friday 2:00pm to 7:00pm 10:00pm to Close 
~Saturday 
10:00pm to Close 
mentary Hors d' oeuvres Monday thru Friday 4:00pm to 7:00pm 
e~~~~'l 
~ 
308 E. Colfax, at the River, East Bank, 234-4477 
Beat USC Special 
REFRIGERATORS $35 per School Year 
FREE DELIVERY 
cALL TaylorRental 
277-2190 
1427 N.lronwood GO IRISH!! 

The Observer would be "impractical" since it might cost ap­proximately $30,000 while the Uni­versity would conduct the audit for free. 
Dziedzic, who estimated the cost of an annual independent audit at 5800, said the use of an outside auditor is financially feasible and "definitely worth it if we are to es­tablish ourselves as not just another student-run organization." 
The latest exchange of proposals between The Observer and the Uni­versity is only part of a series of negotiations begun after the audit was releasedJuly 1. 
Van Wolvlear initially suggested that the newspaper be placed on the unit budget system in an Aug. 4 let­ter to Dziedzic. The letter states that the changeover would include "the preparation of a yearly budget, monthly printouts of all activity, deposits for each type ofadvertising, all receivables, all expenditures, including payroll ..." 
Dziedzic, after meeting with The Observer general board, sent a reply to Van Wolvlear Aug. 29 indicating that the board decided not to place The Observer on the unit budget sys­tem because "the costs and implica­
• • Order 
tions of such a move far outweigh the benefits. 
"The financial controls necessarv for rectifYing our problems mu;t come from within our own organiza­tion," the letter continues. "Even if we accepted your proposal, we would still implement our own con­trols." 
Van Wolvlear, in turn, responded Sept. 2 that the decision of The Ob­server board "really disappointed me. 
"You and your staff evidently did not consider bei.ng of assistance to The Obsen,er staffs who will succeed you. In no way will your people be able to regularize an accounting sys­tem for future staffs." 
In a follow-up meeting Sept. 29 with Van Wolvlear and Director of Student Activitiesjames McDonnell, Dziedzic said he was told student fees would definitely be cut if The Observer was not on the unit budget system byJan. l. The student fees in question totalled approximately S90,000 -with $70,993 in Notre Dame student fees and S17,660 in St. Mary's fees collected last year. 
"It was an ultimatum," Dziedzic said. "But we remained steadfast in our belief that a newspaper cannot be independent ifit's not running its own t1nances." 
Dziedzic said details of the audit and University unit budget proposal were not released to the public ear­lier because "we decided it was necessary to check on a com­promise first . . . to see what the proposal would imply." 
The Observer general board decided to release the findings now "because it is apparent there will be some change in The Observer. We have realized that things will no lon­ger be running at The Observer the way they have been running. That's why it's news," he said. 
Fosmoe also defended the board's decision to hold information until this week: "We thought we could negotiate before we went public. We thought it was in the students' best interest." 
Fosmoe said she talked to 14 for­
mer editors-in-chiefofThe Observer 
and to representatives of independ­
ent student newspapers at 10 major 
universities while checking into the 
issue. 
March of ~ Dimes 
~ SAVES BABIES 
-~~---:~~ 
.... \ .._ Corps 
enjoy yourjob and your spare time too! 
Salary 
Starts annually from $17,000 and increases anaaUy to $29,000 in four yean 
Qualifications 
BSN Degree or3yeardiploma with oney-rof mr:perlence. Yon •a.tbe atlell8t 2011-n old bat under 35 yean old. 
Benefits 
30 days paid vacation Rapid advancement Worldwide travel 
For More Info Contact Kathy Scanlon 1-800·382-9782 
Navy Repr..eatative on Campus. Sept 28-29 

The Observer Thursday, October 20, 1983-page 6 

AUDIO BONANZA 
This sale only happens once a year. Take advantage of our demo, close outs, nick and scratched, one of a kind item sale only offered to preferred customers, especially you. Only 3 days -Sale ends October 30 
RECEIVERS TURNTABLES 

1. 
Harman Kardon 680i Reg 650 Now... 499.95 

2. 
Harman Kardon 570i Reg 430 Now... 299.95 



Phase Linear 8000 Reg 700 Now... 499.95 

3. Harman Kardor: 460i Reg 330 Now... 249.95 
Thorens TD-147 Reg 550 Now... 475.00 

4. Harman Kardon 350i Reg 260 Now... 199.95 
Thorens TD-115 Reg 450 Now...288.00 

5. Nikko NR-1000 Reg 680 Now... 469.95 
Thorens TD-166 Reg 260 Now...219.95 

6. Nikko NR-700 Reg 430 Now... 279.95 
Dual 505 Reg 169 Now... 119.95 

7. 
Onkyo TX-51 Now... 249.95 

Reg450 Nikko NP-800 Reg200 Now.... 99.95 


8. 
Sony STR VX20 Reg 280 Now... 169.95 Now.... 59.95 


Nikko NP-500 Reg 120 

9. Sony STR VX200 Reg 230 Now...129.95 All these turntables include $110 cartridges: Dual 708·55 Reg 460 Now... 249.95 
CASEI I'E DECKS 
Dual 528·55 Reg 360 Now...229.95 Dual 508-55 Reg 319.95 Now... 179.95 Sony LX1 Reg 129.95 Now.... 79.95 

~--~­
il
.1rr~i'· -· 
n 

1. 
Harman Kardon CD401 Reg 750 Now... 625.00 ~· 

2. 
Harman Kardon CD 301 Reg 540 Now... 450.00 SPEAKERS 

3. 
Harman Kardon CD 91 Reg 265 Now... 225.00 


,.j) 

All speakers are priced as each:
4. 
Aiwa AD 3800 Reg 600 Now... 399.95 Reg 430 

5. 
Nikko ND800 Now... 259.95 


Reg 250 

6. 
Nikko NO 600 Now... 149.95 JBL-150 Reg 775 Now... 499.95 

7. 
Hitachi DE33 Reg240 Now... 139.95 Infinity Ref 1.5 Reg 440 Now... 299.95 

8. 
Sony T cfX25 Reg 200 Now 199.95 Sony SS-65 Reg450 Now...225.00 


8. Sony TCFX25 Reg 200 Now...119.95 EPI240A Reg 375 Now... 199.95 EPI180C Reg 280 Now... 169.95 EPI140C Reg 240 Now... 149.95 
ACCESSORIES EPI110A Reg 180 Now...119.95 EPI100A Reg 140 Now.... 99.95 
Tape Head Cleaner $6.99 EPI70A Reg 120 Now .... 59.95 
Tape Head Demagnitizer $15.99 Complete Record Care Kit $19.95 Sony460 Reg 129.95 Now .... 49.95 

Stylus Care Kit $4.99 
Phono Cartridges Up to 50 percent off Up to 199.95
399.99 
Startlngat$1995 

SONY-EHF 

Car Stereos 20 to 40 percent off 
99 
90 minute high bias chrome tape same 

as TDK SA-90 or Maxell UDLX II
1 (Only sold in dozens)
each

ALL-TRONICS 
Electronic Sales & Service 
HOURS MasterCard

6502 N Grape Road Mon . Fri: 11 to 9PM
University Center Visa 

PH· 277-1800 Sat: 10 to 8PM Welcomed Sun: 12 to 5PM
Mishawaka

Behind York Steak House 
continuedfrom page 1 
biguous statements . . . or un­resolved differences ofopinions." 
The auditors said they were "unable to carry this procedure out without incurring unknown delays." 
Dziedzic said The Obseroer has 
taken steps to correct the abuses by 
implementing or agreeing to imple­
ment all the suggestions outlined in 
the audit. 
Three new student workers were hired this fall to help in the account­ing department in an attempt to provide some continuity to the paper's operation, according to Ob­seroer Controller Alex Szilvas. 
The newspaper has also begun double-entry bookkeeping as the audit suggested, Szilvas said. 
The major financial change this year is the shift from a cash-basis to an accrual-basis accounting system, according to Szilvas and Business Manager Dan O'Hare. 
In the past, the business depart­ment of The Observer had trouble matching long-term expenses with revenues since the revenues did not always show up in monthly accounts in a cash-hasis system. 
With an accrual-basis system, one can "match n:venues as they're earned to expenses as they're ex­pended," Szilvas said. The new sys­tem will be more complex and more work, he said, but it will be easier now "to show the proper amount of income each year." 
• • . Trip 
continuedfrom page 1 
they didn't learn of the precedent 
until a few weeks ago because they 
said they had bq~un the project 
working as a group of individuals 
without the University's a~sistance. 
"We didn't purposely forego hold­
ing a raffle this year for any certain 
reason," said committee member 
Stella Ossello. "When it was brought 
up to us two weeks ago, everyone 
who's going on the trip had already 
paid for it, and it wouldn't really 
have been fair to hold a raffle at that 
point." 
Ruehlmann stressed that the Office ofStudent Activities was not a sponsor of the trip when planning began la~t On·ember. He said the committee had no way of knowing how student government commit­tees usually distribute compensa­tion. 
"First Source Travel offered us a 
package of benefits in the beginning 
that were designated to be used by 
the committee," Ruehlmann said. 
"This was before the University 
was even working with us," Grojean 
added. "So there was no precedent 
from the past -we had not been 
told ofone." 
Assistant Director of Student Ac­
tivities Joni Neal said previous class 
trips had not been successful 
enough to merit the time involved in 
planning the trip. 
"The size of the trips had dwindled in numbers, and the Stu· dent Activities people felt like they had gotten too expensive for the stu­dents to aftiJrd," said Neal. 
The Bahamas committee mt·m­hers were told last year they had to demonstrate enough student inter­est to warrant the llniversity's spon­·sorship, Neal said. By March, she said, enough people had signed up for the trip, and the committee had sought bids from travel agencies. 
Buy .. 
Observer 
Classifieds 

The Observer Thursday, October 20, 1983 -page 7 

A group of priests and relatives of missing detainees protest Tuesday outside a building al­legedly belonging to the Central National In-
Work with the Best In the Nuclear field 
The NAVY operatel'l the 1110st advanced nuclear equipr.ent in the world, an­cludang mnre than fi') percP.nt of tJ'Ie 
nuclei!!r re-.ct.nrs in 1\m~:oric~. The 
m,~n o~ho maintain and operate t11n!;P. 
reactor<~ have to be the best, 
Above-Averaye Technica 1 5 tudents 
eligible for Navy Nuclear 
Proqr.:~ms can receive: 
•Scholarships of SlOOO per 
llOnth for up to 24 monthS 
before yraduation, plus a 
$3000 si~o~ning bonus. 
•~tartln9 salary of nearly $2'1:,000 
•Rapid 
adv•nce•ent opportunitieo; 

•Immediate 
manaoement t"esponslbilitieo; 



TO QUALIFY YOU NUST BE: 
AU. s. citizen between 19 ana 27, pursuinlol a bachelor's or master's degree, and have completed dt least one year each ot calculus and calcl.llus-based phy:r.tcs with a "B" averaye or better. Students maJoring in physics, chem­tstry. enyineerlng and math are' preterred. 
CALL NAVY AT: l-ao~c~~;;; 7~l 6:~~;s\"' 
Havy Representative w111 be on Campus OCT 19 & lO (W &. Th) -P1acement Off1ce 
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. 
Bill on King holiday sits on Reagan's desk 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Senate sent President Reagan a bill yesterday es­tablishing a national holiday in memory of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. That supreme honor has been ac­corded only one other American ­George Washington. 
Reagan has promised to sign the bill, which designates the third Mon­day in January, starting in 1986, as a legal holiday in King's name. Final congressiQnal action, sought for years, came more than 1'i years after the civil rights leader was assas­sinated. 
King·s widow, Caretta, and his son, Martin III, watched from the Senate gallery as the climactic roll call was taken. The family was ac­companied by singer Stevie Won­der; Benjamin Hooks, president of the National Association for the Ad­vancement of Colored People; and Joseph Lowry, head of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference that King founded. 
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, 0-Mass., 
formation Agenc.y in Santiago, Chile. The told the Senate that King "deserves 
protesters allege that political prisoners inside the place which this legislation gives 
are being tortured. him beside Washington and 

{ 4 715 W. Progress Drive :::: :::: Michiana Regional Airport (219) 234·6011 } } South Bend, IN 46628 :::: 
lili Experience the Joy of Flying 1111 ~l~i Solo in 30 days Open 7 Days I f for under $499 a Week ~~~~ 
lt,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,"'''''''''''''''''''''''"'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''"'''"'''@''''''''''''''''''''''il: any black who knows me whether I 
Columbus. In a very real sense, he was the second father of our country, the second founder of a new world that is not only a place, a piece of geography, but a noble set ofideals." 
Earlier yesterday, the Senate, 
shrugged off a number of bitter-end 
attempts by conservatives to derail 
the legislation. 
But among those who supported 
the measure were some Southern 
senators, such as Minority Leader 
Robert C. Byrd. 0-W.Va .. and Strom 
Thurmond, R-S.C., who vehenwntly 
opposed King's crusade for civil 
rights legisbtion two decades ago. 
King. a Baptist preacher who cm­
ulated MohatJ.das K. Ghandi's crccd 
of non-violence, won the Nobd 
Peace Prize in I964. He was slain in 
Memphis. Tenn., on April 4. 1968. 
President Reagan initially 
opposed the measure, complaining 
about the cost of creating a I Oth 
paid federal holiday. The Congres­sional Budget Office has estimated the cost at S I 8 million annually in .Premium time for essential federal 
employees. 
Before the final vote, jesse Helms, 
R-N.C., persisted in peppering the 
Senate with proposed alternatives to 
a King holiday. On Tuesday, Helms 
lost a major attempt to recommit the 
bill for further study of Helms' al­
legations that King was influenced 
by communists. 
"Ifwe are going into this business 
of picking out heroes, then I think 
my No. I hero of all time deserves 
some consideration," Helms said 
during the final hours of debate in 
urging a holiday to observe the April 
13 birthday ofThomasJefferson. 
The Senate defeated, 82-1 0, that 
Helms proposal, which would have 
specified that there he no more than 
the present nine paid federal 
holidays, and that there be no King 
holiday unless Jefferson were 
similarly honored. 
Helms later told reporters: ''I'm 
not a racist. I'm not a bigot. Just ask 
We need outstanding individuals to go to work in our c01p0rate headquarters in New York. We prefer maJOrs in accounting. but will consider other majors with a minimum of three accounting courses. These positions are in the Financial Planning and Analysis Division of W R. Grace &Co. 
The Division's job is to assist the Chief Executive Officer and corp:xate management in analyzing the strategic and operating issues facing Grace's businesses. It evaluates the five-year business plans and the performance of all our operating divisions 1n chemicals. natural resources and consumer products 
As a member of this dMsion. you will review all major capital investment proposals. and under­take special projects initiated by corporate management. by the operating dMsions or by the department itself. 
If you're successful. you will spend several years in the Financial Planning ar.d Analysis DMsion. after INhich relocation outside of New York City is likely Promotion and increased responsibilities will be principally financial. opening up possible mo.tes into line positions throughout our intemational operations 

W R. Grace is an unusual company. a $6117 billion multinationaiiNhich in the last ten years has seen its income grow from S36 million to $361 million. Growth like this relies upon people with an unusual mix of professional abilities and individual characterisks If you like assuming responsibility. and can pro;e it to us; if you are an effective communicato~ and can prOle it to us. then you may have the Grace Dimension. 
If you have that dimension. the chances are you know it. and we would like you to tell us about it. or show us. 
Send your resume and we will arrange to visit with you on campus Send it to Joseph Fitzgerald. Managet College Recruitment. W R. Grace & Co. 1114 Avenue of the Americas. New York. N.Y 10036. 

One step ahead of a changing world. 
GRACE
chem•c91s • natural resources • consumer products 
Thursday, October 20, 1983 -page 8 
Vieweoint 
Unlearning 'truths' in Chile 
Editor's note: This is the first in a two-part series crmcerning the Ho~v Cross Associates program in Chile. The columns are excerpts from lellers u•rillen by Associates sen1ing in or ahoutto RfJ to ('bile for the two ami one­half year pm[!,ram. Applications for this year's pro[!,ram in Chile are due Not•ember 1 (the deadline for the domestic program is 
Febmary• 3.) 
fhe Associates 
Chile 
Lift· ht-rc.: among the.: poor -the working dass -is urgent. ll demands a tremc.:ndous capacity l(>r emotion. We never pass a day (at least not yet in a half year) without running the full gamut of t·motions ...from tragedy and hl·artachl· to ecstacy and celehra­
tion ...every day. The Christian community I live in is truly a Christian community. ll is the base of my life here. I live with three women now. 
An astonishing depth of sensitivity exists 
within our community -sensitivity to the 
person, to communication, to the Gospel. In 
the context of the community and the reality 
here.:, I'm coming to a rich understanding of 
the wholisticness ofJesus' message. His living 
testimony is an amazing challenge and invita­
tion. Try to live.: the truth, try to live love. His 
testimony certainly is the truth. 
One ofthe very strong developments 
I'm experiencing is the force of Jesus' truth 
stripping down the tmths I was raised on, so 
to spt·ak. It's heen going on since my second 
year at NO and it continues with fervor. 
Sometimes I'm scared of where it will all take 
me. 
The process is painful since I have yet to find much truth in the scheme of my society(or any society). • feel a kind of rage 

inside when I reflect on how a society raises never really got a good chance to get started. 
its own. When I think ofthe basic truths of It's more or less the same story in all the land our society -the protestant work ethic, the south of the Rio Grande. And it's all in the charity mentality, the contemporary Chris-name of the basic truths that the dominant tian rhetoric, the progress of mankind, the society lays down. good conscientious citizen, national 
It's all so well hidden (or skillfully
security, consumerism, and capitalism-I get represented) to the citizens that it provokes a strong feeling in my gut. 

very little within the hearts ofeven we Chris­It's a powerful, powerful scheme of forma­tians. For the most part the citizens continuetion and orientation of people in their world. 
their own personal way of life while the con­It's a suffocating scheme in which a person scious ones lament that things must be this 
rarely fulfills him or herselfexcept within the way. We assimilate the charity mentality along

invisible boundaries set up by the society. 

with all the rest of the truths and settle into The development of society in Latin 
ourcontemporary Christianity.
America is a sad history. The image of abor­

tion, or the conquest of man/woman in . , . . slavery would not be too strong. For the most We l~a~e far behm_d Je~us a~tagomsuc part. the society is the fruit of a ruthless denunoauon_ ofhypocnsy, ~~ burn•~gloveof domination (one well rooted in the U.S. humanity, h1s unc_o"_lpr~>m•~mg demal of the society), it's tmths and values. cn:!wn -the ass•m_llauon mto the v_alues _of 
Like all Latin American societies, Chile's th1s world. We leave m the dust ofanoent hiS­own cultural and societal development has tory the Way ofthe Cross. been aborted; aborted also in the sense that it ]oeRegotti 
AnTostal audit 
Dear Editor: 
Fahricated quotes and quotes out of con­tl'Xt compd ml' to address Mike Millen's ar­
tide on the An Tostal audit. The article neglects to mention the major points I made during the interview, in addition to the 
misquotes. 
First, I ne11er said "(Jim) McDonnell didn't kec.:p tahs on the funds." McDonnell was not the reao;on An Tostal went ovl·r hudget. Due to a decision made by Student Government four yl·ars ago, An Tostal had its own private ac­count. Thus, they could write their own t.'hlTks without the signatures of the Student Body Treasurer and Jamt.·s McDonnell. These 
signatures are required on all other Student Govanment and Student Union checks. McDonnell had no way of knowing what An Tostal was doing with their money. For those who maintain that McDonnell is at fault, l sug­gest that Student Body Presidents Lloyd Burke and Brian Callaghan should share equal responsibility. 
Secondly, l never said, "There was a general 
lal·k of control and a definite laxity regarding 
money." The reporter asked several questions 
inviting me to say just this, and when I did not, 
hl· made up a quote to that effect. In fact, l 
made sure to point out to him that, although 
the control on money was less than most 
SG/Sll projects, it was not nonexistent. I told 
thl· thl· reporter that this was not the problem, 
hut rather it was the Heatwave concert. 
Iexplained to the reporter (a fn·shman who nl·ver hao; seen an An Tostal) the prohfems with the "Irish Wake." In 1981, the "Irish Wake" was very successful, hut problems arost· from tht· excessive and hlatant use of alcohol in Stepan Center. The administration almost cancdlcd the event !(>r 1982, hut it was saved. llnfortunately, a required name changl·, late planning due to late approval, and the negative puhlicity caused the event to h;IVl' a low turnout. 
One ofJay Rddy's ( 198.~ An Tostal Chair­man) top prioritks wao; to return thl' "Irish Wake" to thl· success it enjoyed in 19H I. Jay felt that a hand with prc.:vious Top Ten hits would give tht.· l'Vent good publicity and nnlihility nlTlkd l(>r a good turnout. 
Ikatwavl· was the hest hand available at what Jay fdt was an availabk price. Plans ti>r the conn·rt wl·re made in nmjunction with Steve Strakl·, Student Union Director and Laurene Powl·rs. Sll Social Comissioner. So a numher of other Sll/S(; otlkials Y.'l"re involvl·d in the 
llccision making proc.:c:ss. 
P. 0. BoxQ 
The great error of An Tostal '83 was Jay's 
planning on 3,000 students attending the con­
cert/dance. While turnout was good, it was 
well under 3,000 and hence the concert lost more money than planned, approximately S3500. The othc:r source of loss was an accident with one of the rented vehicles used by An Tostal. This accident cost about S800. These two factors are why An Tostal came in over hudget. I mentioned both ofthese to the reporter. If 
your reporters would not think ofthemselves as junior Woodward and Bernsteins and con­centrate on the facts rather than coming into an interview with preconcieved notions, I helieve the quality and accuracy ofthe articles 
would improve. 
Mark Rolfes 
Editor's note: Although Mr. Millen may have incorrectly quoted Mr. Rolfes referral to "tabs on funds," Mr. Rolfes did suggest that funds were not watched closely by james McDonnell, ,4,irectp!j, .()/ stude11t activities. The Ohserver regrets any misunderstanding caused by the article. 
Bahamas trip 
Dear Editor: 
In rl·sponse to the letter written earlier this 
week on the Bahamas trip, I feel that the com­
mittee has done an injustice in adding the 
twelve extra dollars to each senior's fare while 
seven students are permitted to go for only a 
small fraction ofthe package price. 
Although advertising, "group incurred 
liabilities" and the Bahamas party(?) obvious­
ly cost money, this added fee could have been 
avoidl·d if the travel honuses had been more 
equitahly and judiciously distributed. 
While it appears questionahk that even the 
original committee member should receive 
such a lucrative reward for their efforts when 
others in campus leadership positions do con­siderably more work and expect no such com­pensation., this could be overlooked were it not for the fact that the.: committee has grown to seven memhers (could there he that much work when going through a travel agency?). Neither the trip participants nor the senior class president were informed. Moreover, be­cause of these covert actions, there will he no suitcase raffll: of the complimentary trips as has been traditional. 
What has transpired to this point has ap­parently heen an error in judgement on the part of a few; however, the error needs to be 
rectified before all involved seniors must pay for the mistakes ofthe committee members. I, for one, cannot afford to do so. 
MaraErkins 
Shoot or no? 
DearEditor: 
Imagine the scene! The weak light ofa pre­dawn sun illuminates the sky hut keeps the 

USC pre-game 
DearEditor: 
Well, it is the week leading up to the clao;sic college football game, USC vs. Notre Dame, at Notre Dame Stadium. While everyone endures papers, quizzes and exams, the senior class is looking forward to what it hopes will be a most memorable moment, a victory over the Trojans of Southern Cal. The Class of '84 
forest in shadow. You are a hunter in pursuit will seek to avert the misfortune of the lao;t of your prey. Tirelessly, stubbornly you two graduating classes who never knew the pursue your quarry but to no avail. For half a sweet taste of victory over USC. It's been five mile the cha'>t: quickens, and suddenly, you long years but this time hopefully it will he see a movement, a flicker of action behind a different. bush. Is this the hunted animal, the goal ofthe It should be different from the last game in morning's pursuits? Should you raise the gun, Notre Dame Stadium. The crowd was timid fire into the bush and finish the; hunt? Slowly, and weak throughout the whole game. The you raise the gun, and finger the trigger but tone was set before the game even started suddenly stop. What exactly is moving behind when th e student body wasn't waitingfor the the bush? Is it your hunted prey, or is it a bird team at the goalposts. The sight of bobbing or perhaps even a man? Yes, maybe it's a man. gold helmets slowly moving through a mob of What then will you do? Morally speaking, you fanatic Domers is one of the most awe­must not shoot, for possibly you would kill a inspiring moments in sport. man. Let's make sure USC knows everyone is to-
Now, let's dismiss this story temporarily gether in our desire to win on Saturday. The and talk about a more serious issue -abor-students should he extremely loud before the tion. Let's take this stale topic and present it in game and he on the field when the team a different light. comes firing out of the lockerroom. Take a 
The major controversy concerning abor-look at the nearest football player's door. They tion is the question of the fetus's humanity. Is are ready. Security: please let us on the field to the fetus human at the moment ofconception, honor one ofcollege football's best traditions at birth or at some nebulous time in between? and the example par excellence of Notre Some pro-life people believe that the fetus is Dame spirit. See you on the field! human from the · moment of conception. Phil Manz '84 Therefore, it follows that all abortions are acts ofmurder. 
Many pro-choice people, however, insist 

Pangborn team 
that life and humanity do not begin at concep­tion. Rather, they explain that a fetus is not DearEditor: human until actual birth or a short time In his article on interhall football (Oct. 13), before. It follows that abortion could be jus-Mr. Antonini refers to the Pangborn football tified under certain circumstances. team as "lowly." Obviously Antonini docs not 
Whether abortion is right or wrong seems know what he is talking about. At the time the 
to depend on individual opinion. But no one really knows whan a fetus becomes human. Scientists, philosophers and medical doctors do not agree, hence the confusion. 
Now, pretend once again that you are a hun­ter. No, ygu aren't climbing the hills of a des­olate countryside, and no, you aren't in a dark forest. Further, you are not pursuing an animal or a bird. Rather, you are thinking about the question of abortion. Like the disconcerted hunter in the wood, should ou fire with the helief that your target is not human? Or per-

article appeared Pangborn had tied division leading Howard, and lost to Carroll on a last minute drive aided by a very questionable pass-interference calL On top of this, Pangborn thrashed St. Ed's on Sunday. If An­tonini would like to bring his lowly face to Pangborn, he can see a good football team. 
Matt Colligan 
haps, should you wait and see? Ifyou do shoot, Editor's note: The appearatzce ofletters to the you may kill a person. editor is subject to the daily constraints of Thomas Considine the page. 
Editorial Board Department Managers 
._Ihe___Qbsene;==
Edilor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic /lox(}, N(•trt• /)a me. IN ·16556 (.! /'}) .!J'J· 5303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
The Oh.~erl't"T' •~ rhe mdqwmknt new~paper puhli~hl·d h\' thl· studl·nt~ of tht· Uni· Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas \Tr"'" ol Notre Dame du Lat.· and Saint ,\1ar\'·~ Collt·ge. It doe~ not nnT~saril\' rdlect News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen till' poliul·~ ol tht' atlmm•~trarion of e1ther in~titution The new~ is reported as al· News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composilion Manager . ........ Suzauuc i...a Croix l·uratdy and a~ ohjlTIIVd\' a~ po~-.ihlt' l'n-.ignnll·tlitoriab n·pre~ent the opinon ofa Saint Mary's Editor. . . . . . .... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miollo majonty otthe hliton;ll lluanl <:omnll'ntarie-.. ktH-rs. amlthe ln-.idl' Column present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamillou System Manager ............... Kevin Willian., tht· \'ll"W' olthnr author' ( .olumn 'pat.T i-. ;t\'ailahk to all memhl·r~ ofthe communitv Photo Editor .................... Scoll Bower and the lrlT t'XIHl''>sJon of Yar\'ing opmion-. on campus. through ktter-.. is encouraged. .\jmrts l:'dilor .. ....... \1ichacl Sullivan_ 
Founded Novrmber 3, 1966 
~­
Viewpoint Thursday, October 20, 1983 -page 9 
The politics of friendship 
In his surprise move of appointing William 
P. Clark in james Watt's place Ronald Reagan acted to keep the New Right from being total­ly miserable. He picked a deep and hard con­servative to follow a deep and hard conservative, thus serving notice that the In­terior post is ofprime importance to him, and that Watt's land and resources policies were also Reagan's own. 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 
There is no one in the President's whole political family closer to him than Clark. He is a moving symbol of Reagan's sense of con­cern. When Reagan was worried about Alexander Haig and the State Department he made Clark deputy secratary of state to keep watch on Haig. When he was worried about the chaos in the National Security Council he made Clark his chief security adviser. When he wanted to heal the wound left by james Watt's ouster under public pressure he again 
shifted Clark, this time to Interior. 
This could go on endlessly. With three posts, and Reagan's term still some I 5 months to go, think ofhow many he will have held by the end of his friend's second term -if Reagan wins it. 
Reagan took a lead from his presidential model, Franklin Rooseve!L like FOR, Reagan loves baiting the press with surprises, and showing his glee when he has pulled a fast one on the media men. 
There is another parallel with FOR, who made his best friend, Harry Hopkins, the No. 2 man in his administration. Hopkins wasn't par­ticularly trained for any big government job. He was a social worker. Roosevelt put him in charge of the Work Progress Administration (WPA), which was a leverage point for getting people back to work, using the state as employer oflast resort. 
Later Roosevelt shifted Hopkins and sent him around the world, wherever his own palsied legs couldn't carry him, to serve as his alter ego. He was at once a traveling and for­mal portmanteau secretary of state and defense, and personal ambassador extraor­dinaire. As the president's intimate he could speak for him, and he carried half the war on his invalid shoulders. Next to FOR, he was easily the most powerful man in the ad­ministration. 
William Clark had the same role as head of the National Security Council. His new post is ofa lesser power but a crucial one for a presi­dent who wants to avoid deep trouble as his reelection campaign gets under way. Reagan described Clark, to a fundamentalist women's religious group, as a "God-fearing Westerner." He might have added that he is also a good soldier. 
Reagan's critics say Clark knows little about the Interior job. But he knew even less about foreign policy, as his Senate confirmation hearings revealed. He learns fast an .d has the trust ofthe right person. When Presidentjohn Kennedy made his brother attorney general the critics noted he was barely out of law school. "I can't sec it's wrong," the president answered, "to give him a little legal ex­perience before he goes out to practice law." Anc1 it did. 


Every president has a political f.unily, which is close to nepotism but not as close as Ken­nedy's was. Kennedy had his whole clan to re­ly on. Harding and Truman had a cluster of "cronies" who did the White House harm. Reagan has Bill Clark. 

1983, LosAngeles Times Syndicate 
Engineering 101: a course in religion? 
This young Catholic engineer wonders why the teaching philosophy ofNotre Dame's Col­kge of Engineering lacks depth It seems knowledge is taught, but wisdom is not. Specifically, the overwhelming majority of· engineering courses are taught in no broader context. At the Catholic university the teach­ing of our Church is never recognized or brought into the teaching ofengineering. 
John Regalbuto 
Guest opinion 

Even more frustrating, the engineering faculty (besides being good engineers) are also good human beings. We have competent 
engineers who are caring individuals, but the two concepts never seem to be connected in the classroom. I dare say this lack of associa­tion in engineering schools on the whole is greatly responsible for the presence in this country of the "opposing faces of engineer­ing," as Dean Schmit~ d~Scribes it, the mutual mistrust and misunderstanding between scientists and engineers on the one hand, and the technologically-unknowing on the other. One cannot discredit the vast amount ofgood done by engineers who don't recognize any greater motivation than engineering itself Perhaps, however, an engineer puts himselfin a position to do greater good, and not neces­sarily material or tangible good, if he works from the context offaith. 
Direct reference to the Catholic Church is not necessary and cannot really be expected. Many ofour outstanding faculty members are from other countries and are nonchristian. But is it impossible to bring the teachingofthe Church into the classroom? Confining faith to religious terminology alone belittles it. 
Imagine a student walking into the opening class of Engineering 101 and hearing this in­troductory lecture: 
"The first thing we should do, class, is decide why you are taking this course. Let's take a bit of a tangent. Why am I here? Since we're here at Notre Dame, we can safely start from this assumption: I am here to love, and happiness is the fruit of my effortto dowhat I· can to make others happy. 
"Practically, this means using our God­given talents and abilities to do what we can for others. Each ofus has an aptitude for math and science. And so, at a deeper level we are here honing our skills, preparing ourselves to give the world those talents with which we are blessed." 

The present classroom separation between wisdom and knowledge could be mended with the help of the founders of this Univer­sity, the priests and brothers ofthe Congrega­tion of Holy Cross. Perhaps the CSC's could 
sponsor faculty workshops and inter-college colloquia Refresher courses in theology and philosophy could be offered to the faculty. These would be especially helpful to noncat­holics seeking more exposure to Catholic ideology. 
The imparting of wisdom should be a benefit made available to students at Notre Dame in each and every classroom, and should involve a common mission among all faculty to present their subjects in a broader context. 

Campus comments What do you think about Cap'n Crunch Week? 
I've never tried Cap'n Crunch, but I I like the idea and the controversy I wish I werejean LaFoote so I couk' It seems like a fun event, but I don't I can understand why some are get­
wouldn't mind going to Florida about Quaker Oats advertising, but stomp on the Crunchberry beast. know how I feel about it making the ting upset, but I think it's all in fun, it will be a better week if I find the Wall Streetjournal. : .nd we should enjoy it. It's nice to treasure chest nave a little excitement. 
Carola Sainz Dan Sullivan llollimsl ·r1s•st: Jlaul Daiber 
KathyKoon Monica Wehby Management FreshmanYear ofStudies "tlechanical engineering History Microbiology and Psychology Classof'84 Classof'87 Graduate student Classof'84 Classof'84 


-----~ 
The Observer Lafortune office accepts classified advertising 
from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open from 12:30 p.m. lo 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for nrxt day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in per­son or by mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per

Classifieds 
Thursday, October 20, 1983 -page I 0 
day. · 
NOTICES 

PRO-TYPE 12 yrs. experience. Specializing 1n dissertations, manuscnpts. theses, and student papers. Call277·5833 tor rates 
BLOW AWAY USC WITH BUBBLES 
CAMPUS SCREAM IS BACK • 11 P.M. THURSDAY 10/20/83 
ATTENTION BAHAMA BOUND SENIOASIIII REMEMBER TO BE AT STEPAN AT 2:30AM SUNDAY BAING PROPER 1.0. ANY QUESTIONS? CALL DONNA6647 OR STELLA 614t 
PART TIME BARTENDER POSITIONS OPEN TO STUDENTS HOURS FLEXIBLE APPLY IN PERSON ONLY AFTER 6 PM HICKORY HIRAM S. CORNEA OF MISHAWAKA AVE. AND MAIN ST. MISHAWAKA 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST ONE GREEN. IRISH WOOL. DONEGAL HAT CALL 283-6929 IF FOUND REWARD IF FOUND. NO QUESTIONS ASKED ENDA 
LOST:NAVY BLUE LIGHT-WEIGHT PACIFIC TRAIL JACKET THIS JACKET HAS A GREAT AMOUNT OF SEN· TIMENTAL VALUE AND SO REWARD WILL BE GIVEN PLEASE CALL 8610 AND ASK FOR JOHN 
LOST PBJr ot contacts rn a green-and· wh1te case. somewhere off campus and very possibly on St Lours Avenue. Call Don at 8262 rt you see them ·cause he sure can't. 
LOST Please. whoever found my gold watch, call Debbre at 277·4309. n was dropped on the road near the Grono, or by the trarn tracks at SMC Reward offered. 
LOST: Woman·s srlver drgrtal watch on Tues. Oct. 11, between Haggar Center and Madeleva. Please call M C at 4302. 
LOST AT SENIOR BAR BLUE MOUN· TAIN PARKA W KEYS AND SCARF IN POCKETS. tO 12 63 CALL 283-1539 ANYTIME. REWARD! 
FOUND: Portrait of grM. found in Crowley Hall of Music Written on the back is the tollowrng ·To Gary, wrth all of my love, Yours Always, Kathy 
LOST: Two Fountarn pens rn small, brown leather case BIG DOLLARS REWARD Call 277·6367 No qqes1rons asked PLEASE IIIII 
LOST. Gold Trmex WATCH wrthout num· 
bers on lace Thurs. . 10/13 between 
North Drnrng Hall & Lewrs Lrz · 331 Lewrs 
7815 
LOST A gold skrrtprn (looks like oversrzed safety prn) on SouTh Quad ear· ly Thursday evenrng 01 GREAT sen­trmental value• II found. please call Dot 3661 
found · calculator;on thursday october 13 you tell me its type and where 11 was lost and I grve rt to you 
LOST GOLD BRACELET. NORTH DINING HALL.D·LINE OR EAST QUAD REWARD CALL KARl. 4565 
LOST One parr of DIADOAA tennrs shoes .. whrte wrlh blue strrpe II lound, please contactChrrs. at3t13 THANKS!!• 
LOST To whomever took my blue NO 
bookbag from south drnrng hall at lunch on 
t 0/14 PLEASE return the contents to the 
owner (on the notebooks). You have my 
ma1or rn that bag (plus I'm blrnd w/o my 
glasses). 
FOUND BUBBLES BUBBLES BUBBLES CALL M.L. BRENNAN 266·5390 
FOUND. SUIT COAT AT T SYA AT SMC CLUBHOUSE ON SATURDAY NIGHT CALL 284-429t TO CLAIM 
LOST A SILVER COLORED BACK· PACK WITH TEAR IN BOTTOM CON­TAINS IMPORTANT NOTES HAS THE WOAD MacGregor WRITTEN ON THE SIDE IN BLACK PROBABLY LOST ON FRIDAY. OCT 14 IF YOU FIND IT. MY GRADES WILL THANK YOU REWARD IS OFFERED CALL JIM AT 1766. 
LOST Berge reversrble medrum-werght tacket rn AB lobby ot North Drnrng Hall on 10-15-83. II you know the whereabouts. please call x8728 or return to Lost and Found rn ADM Bldg REWARD 
FOR RENT 

NICE FURNISHED HOUSE 277-3604 
ET costume tor rent Make your reserva· lions now! Have the best costume on campusl Call 2869642 after 7pm Ask tor Jeanene. 
1 bedroom house, large krtchen. large yard area, Cleveland Ad 2 blks E. of Uni­versity Mall. $200 & heat and utrlrtres Call 237·0156 
HOUSEMATE. FEMALE $175 MO. EX­CELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD. CLOSE TO NO, GROCERY STORE. FUR· NISHED. 233-6061. 
WANTED 

NEED 2TO 4 PmGA'S WILL PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL MARK 1177 
RIDE NEEDED TO CONNECTICUT OR NEW YORK FOR OCTOBER BREAK WILL SHARE USUAL EXPENSES. CALL DAN 6624 
Need 2 Loverboy Trckets Jeff ( t377) 
To-or-lrom wantMPLS needMPLS brk MPLS dave3039 t1 pm 
Weal Cou1 boy desperately needs rides to, !rom WASHINGTON D.C. over break to play tourist. Would prefer to -both football gamea II possible. Call Nick at 1426. 
ROUND TRIP AIDE NEEDED to Wasl>­lngton, D.C. over break. My prev1ous nde tell through! Help me! Call Nrck at 1426. 
Arders needed to No. Va/DC area: one way or both. Leave Sun. Oct 23 Call Trish at 264-5213orMarybeth at 1277. 
NEED AIDE TO O'HARE AIR· PORT/CHICAGO IMMEDIATELY AF· TEA U.S.C. DESPERATE! KAAI.4565 
Need rrde to Jersey Frrday. Call Carlos at 1467. 
Rrde needed·COLUMBUS.OH-Oct. Break-share usuai-Errc X6192 
NEED rrde to CINCINNATI. Leaving Friday. Call DAVE at 1165. 
Need a nde to Crncinatr tor tall break lor two people Wrllrng 
Arders urgently needed to Chan. TN or pts between. ChaMes 1465. 
HELP' DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO 
D.C. CALL MEGAN AT 4236(SMC) 
Need rrde to North N.J. tor break. Can leave Fri. afternoon, writ share usual. call Aprrl SMC 511t 
NEED STUDENT DURING BREAK TO WORK WITH APPLE lie AND UST HANDLER ·WORD HANDLER SOFTWARE AT CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. PAID, STUDENT RATE. CALL 53191F INTERESTED. 
wantad: 2 trckets to navy game, call277· 4533 after 5pm 
NEED 2 PITT TICKETS PLEASE ADVISL.7979 
AIDE NEEDED TO D.C. AREA FOR BREAK CAN LEAVE SUNDAY. ~3AD. CALL PETE AT 277 ·6366 
NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL NJ FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE FAt AFTER­NOON WILL SHARE USUAL. ALSO, NEED RIDERS FOR TRIP BACK FROM CENTRAL NJ -TO NO ON SUNDAY 10/30. CALL CHARLIE AT 6811 
RIDE NEEDED, lor break. to BLOOMINGTON exrt on 1-55, will share usual Chrrs, 234· 7033. 
need Prt1 GAs 2591756 
Need Rrde back from NYC/LI area at end of Oct Break II you can help call PAUL at 277·4067 
FOR SALE 

butcherblock looseball table tor sale lrke new call255 0116 
EXOTIC PElS· snakes, lizards, turtles, tarantulas, amphlblana, birds, mam­mals. Largeat aelectlon In U.S. Mid· weal Reptile, 1520 Mishawaka Ave., 232·2095, 2 mi. !rom N.D. 
For Sale Fuzzbuster. Less than one year old. Excellant condition Pnce to Negotrate call Ruth 277-6425 
HP-41C OWNERS !IIIII! TWO HP 82106A MEMORY MODULES FOR SALE at $25 00 EACH CALL 283-1539 
FOR SALE ONE USC GA BEST OFFER.· ITS YOURS!IICALL 277·6497 
FOR SALE 4 USC GA'S ON 50 YD. LINE BEST OFFER BY THURS. 272­7580 OR 272-1579 AFTER 6PM. 
COMING SOON GROUND ZERO BUBBLES AT A DINING HALL NEAR YOU 
2 USC GA'S. THEY ARE YOURS FOR THE BEST OFFER CALL 277-6159 AF· TEA5:00. 
FOR SALE 4 USC GA'S BEST OFFER CALL JOHN 8367 
FOR SALE: 2 USC GA's. Best offer call 264-4624(days) or 277-1797 (7-10). 
One hrghly sought after USC st trk call 61 09 between 7-9 pm hrghest offer. I need money logo home I 
2 USC GA'S For Sale. Best Oner. Jim 277·0576 
FOR SALE STUDENT SEASON FOOT­BALL TIX CALL JIM 269-9172 
FOR SALE NAVY STUD TIX. CHEAP! TOMAT3230 
FOR SALE: 4 USC GA'S (REASONABLE) WORK NIGHT SHIFT: CALL LOU AFTER 4 AM. 277-1750. NO CALL ACCEPTED BEFORE THIS!! 
FOR SALE: 1 h.p. Flint & Walling wa1er pump, new motor & parts, $125; 41)-gal. preaaure tank, $50. Had to put In a new well • cannot uae old pump and tank. Call272·3753 after 6 p.m. 
For sale: 2 student trckets for USC. Call 283·7409 
FOR SALE: 2 GA'S & 2 TIX FOR USC. LEAVING TOWN SAT. A.M. CALL 1973 ANYTIME I MUST SELLI 
.................................................................. 
butcherblock tooseball table tor sale like new call255 0116 
EX~ TIC PETS-snakes, lizards, turtles, tarantulas, amphlblana, birds, mam­mals. l.argeat selection In U.S. Mid· west Reptile, 1520 Mishawaka Ave., 232·2095, 2 mi. !rom N.D. 
For Sale: Fuzzbuster Less than one year old. Excellant condition. Price to Negotrate. call Ruth 277-6425 
HP-4t C OWNERS !!!ffl! TWO HP 62106A MEMORY MODULES FOR SALE at $25.00 EACH CALL 263-1539 
FOR SALE: ONE USC GA. BEST OFFER.· IT'S YOUASif!CALL 277-8497 
FOR SALE. 4 USC GA'S ON 50 YD. LINE. BEST OFFER BY THURS. 272­7560 OR 272·1579 AFTER 6PM. 
COMING SOON GROUND ZERO BUBBLES AT A DINING HALL NEAR YOU 
2 USC GA'S. THEY ARE YOURS FDA THE BEST OFFER. CALL 277-6159 AF· TEA 5:00. 
FOR SALE 4 USC GA'S BEST OFFER CALL JOHN 6367 
FOR SALE: 2 USC GA's. Best offer call 264-4624(days) or277-1797 (7-10). 
One hrghty sought after USC st tik call 8109 between 7-9 pm highest offer. I need money to go home! 
2 USC GA'S For Sale. Best Offer. Jim 277-0576 
FOR SALE STUDENT SEASON FOOT· BALL TIX CALL JIM 269·9172 
FOR SALE NAVY STUD TIX. CHEAP! TOM AT 3230 
FOR SALE 4 USC GA S (REASONABLE) WORK NIGHT SHIFT CALL LOU AFTER 4 AM. 277-1750. NO CALL ACCEPTED BEFORE THISI! 
FOR SALE: 1 h.p. Flint & Walling water pump, new motor & parto, $125; 40-gal. pressure tank, $50. Had to put In a new well • cannot use old pump and tank. Call 272-3753 after 6 p.m. 
For sale: 2 student trckets tor USC Call 283·7409 
FOR SALE: 2 GA'S & 2 TIX FOR USC. LEAVING TOWN SAT. A.M. CALL 1973 ANYTIME I MUST SELLI 
'. 
TICKETS 
1 
Desperately need Penn State game tick· ets. Call Brian at 8795 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2645064 
USC-NO tlx wanted. Payrng most. (312) 246-4650. 
Need Non-student tickets to NO vs USC. Call collect, (312) 565-5959 x2013 or x2233. 
HELP 
A ""'Y RICH friend needs PITT GA'a. He is willing to pay serious dollars lor the tickets. Please help by calling David at 
277-1326. 
You'll be glad you did For Sale: 1 USC GA. Best offer. Call2909. 
For Sale: 1 USC GA Best offer. Call John at 312t 
I NEED 2 USC GAs. CALL JACK 277­3315 
Need 4 NAVY GAs Doug 277 4273 
I AM WILLING TO TRADE 2 AIR FORCE STUD. TIX AND/OR CASH FOR ONE PIT STUD. TIX OR GAMY GIRLFRIEND IS ALSO NEGOTIABLE. CALL BARNEY t222. 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S. BIG DOLLARS. CALL3522 
PITT TIX .. DESPERATELY NEED 3 STUD. & 2 OR MORE GAS $$$ CALL SUSANNE (SMC)5462 OR (SMC)5047 
HELP' I need 3,4,or 5 PITT GA's. Call Kevrn at 6877 
NEED 4 NAVY GAs DOUG-277-4273 
Need GAs FOR USC. PITT, NAVY GAMES Leura 4367 or Kate 5515 
I NEED USC TICKETS. WILL PAY CASH OR TRADE FOR 6 PITT. CALL JERRY AT x1763 AFTER 6 p.m. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL BEAT ANY OTHER OFFERS IF YOU WANT LOTS OF$$$$ CALL BOAT 1615 
NEED STUDENT TICKET FOR USC GAME. CALL FRANK (1240) 
Give to a worthy cause--YOURSELF! Take my money in exchange lor 2 USC GAs. Calltoday·Aob-3251. 
GOTSTA HAVE NAVY GA's x1695 
I need 2 tickets tor the USC Game tor priest who is offering eternal bliss in return!! call Kurt at 3696. 
USC Tix needed. Call1776. 
CASH lor USC tickets (G.A preferably). Call Mike at 1850. 
Rich, '83 NO grad needs 1 or 2 USC stu­dent tickets. Also, need 1 Pin student or GA Call Dave or Rod at 1615. 
HELPI I NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. CALL DAVEAT1801. 
I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUDENT TICK­ET CALL 1554 · DURING LATE EVE· NING IS BEST. 
HAVE 2 USC GA'S tor sale. Call John 1166. 
Need 5 G.A NAVY tickets call Gus at 2550392 during the day seats need not be conseecti i ve . 
PmGA'S NEEDED Ill Will pay brg $$$$. Call Tom Hollerbach collect at (312) 565­5959. 
For sale:Navy StudenT Ticket $15 Call Sheri at 2703 
MIKE BRENNAN NEEDS 5 USC STU­DENT TIXS. 288-5390. 
NEED 3 USC GAs PLEASE CALL 1627 
$$$ I NEED 4 USC STUDENT OR G A TIX $$$CALL ED 277-6295 
HELP' PARENTS WILL BEAT ME IF I DON'T GET 2 USC GA's! prevent child abuse call larry at 1506 
Nl::ED 4 USC GAS. WILL PAY BIG$$$$ AND THROW IN A CASE OF MOLSONS CANADIAN I CALL DAVE AT 3127 
HELP' I NEED GAISTU USC TIX. RECRUITING FUTURE DOMERS. LAURA6832 
Need 2 or 4 Navy GA's, Karl1596 
NEED 8 GAS FOR PITT. MUST BE IN PAIRS. CALL KEVIN AT 6636 
NEED 2 USC G!IS. CALL SUSAN 6967 
For sale: 2 stud. Navy tix. Call 6036 or 6038 it interested. 
NEED NAVY GA'S...CALL BETH AT 4541 
need 3USC,2GAs Pitt Tix Julie277·1325 
HELPII NEED USC GAS OR ANY HOME GAME.272-6306,2321466. 
Need 2 or 4 GA tlx lor USC game and 2 GA's lor Navy game. Please call Helen at 284-5501 
2 NAVY GA'S WANTED. CALL 264· 5246(SMC) 
4 NAVY GA'S WANTED. CALL WOU t773. 
NEED 1 USC GA. CALL DAN 1022 
Will trade 2 PiTt GA tor 2 USC GA. Call Mike at 1106. 
WILL TRADE NAVY GA's tor PITT. GA's. CALL PAUL or HAMIL a11527 
Need 2 or 4 USC GA's. Can trade 2 atud. tlx. Call1001 or 1072 
I DESPERATELY NEED 6 USC GA'S. I WILL BEAT YOUR BEST OFFER. CALL KERRI AT234·9114. HELP!!! 
for sale --one navy student ticket. call 6926 

DESPERATE tor 2 Navy GA'S. Writ pay $$$!Call Mrmr 7863 
HELP! I need 2 GA Tix tor Pitt game call Kelly4120 
NEEDED. One GA tor USC. Call Jan 2966. 
I NEED 4 GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME CALL JEFF AT 1809 
NEED 3 NAVY TIX CALL 272-6056 
NEED 3 NAVY GA'S BY THURS. CALL DONNA 264·9102 
NEED PITT GA Have USC Stud. Let's Deal Steve 8677 After 7p t m. 
HELP I! I need 1 STUDENT and t GA lix tor the USC game!! Please call Juhe at 4434! 
Help ! Desperately need Navy GAs. Call Joe at 6430 or Jerry at 2295 
NEED BOTH G.A AND STUDENT TIX FOR ALL REMAINING HOME GAMES. CALL MARTY AT 6639. 
GO HOME EARLY FOR BREAK. BUT SELL ME YOUR STUDENT USC TICK· ET BEFORE YOU GO. CALL MIKE x 8565. 
FOR SALE 2 STU. NAVY TICKETS-40 YO LINE FRITZ at 234-0319 
3 FRIENDS FROM KOKOMO FEEL SCALPING SHOULD BE LEGAL. NEED 3 GA TIXS FOR USC GAME. CALL MIKE AT 267-3565. 
NEED TWO (2) GA'S tor, yes USC !I $$ CALL6906 
HELP!!!! I need two NAVY GA's $$$$$ Call3672 
I need tickets to any remaining home game (NAVY, PITT. or AIR FORCE) Call Joe at 1206 BEFORE you sell yours. 
$$$$WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR 4 PITT GA'S$$$$ CALLJOHN 1610 
I AM THE O-MAN. I WANT USC TIX. I WILL NOT PAY EXORBITANT PRICES. CALL 1723 
I NEED PITT TICKETS, DESPERATELY NEED GA OR STD. TICKS FOR 4 GOR­GEOUS GIRLS· IT MAY BE WORTH YOUR WHILE If CALL TOM 6549 
FOR SALE: ONE USC STUDENT TICK· ET. BEST OFFER BY 5:00 FRIDAY. TIM x3610 
DELIGHTFUL DIANA DESPEAATEL Y DESIRES 2 NAVY GA'S. DON'T DISAP· POINT 01, DO DIAL 264-4127. 
$$$$ NEED 2 GA TIXS FOR NAVY. CALL MIKE AT 1475. 
YESII toe nead 1 USC GA or student trek­at. Please call Julre 264-5212 
I have 1 USC student ticket. Will accept best offer made by Thurs at mrdnight. Anne6156. 
NEED NAVY TICKETS. PLEASE CALL GRETCHEN. 277-4862 
NAVY TIX FOR SALE 2 stud trx. John. 3306 
NEED 4 PITT GAS. CAN'T LET MOM AND DAD DOWN CALL LISA 1839 OR TOM 1002. 
HELP I NEED 4 NAVY GAS FOR MY GRANDPARENTS WIL I. PAY WHATEVER CALL FRANK 7449 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
FOR SALE. 1 STU NAVY TIX, DAVE 2893079 AFTER 6. 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 USC GA'S $$$$CALL JACK AT 277-5406 
I NEED 2 USC TIX GA'S OR STUDENTS. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL MIKE 1770 
I AM SELLING 8 USC TIXS. WILL SETTLE FOR $20 CALL JIM t780 
PERSONALS 
GET OUT OF THE PIUA RUTII TRY A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINE NOW DELIVER· lNG MON-SAT 9-12pm. CALL 272-4453 
I need PITT GA'a. Call Davrd at 277· 1326. 
LOOK OUT-LOVER BOY AND AC/OC ARE COMING TO THE ACC .. SOONI 
I WOULD WRITE THIS WITH MY BLOOD IF IT COULD GET ME USC TICKETS. I WILL PAY CASH OR TRADE FOR 6 PITT. CALL JERRY AT x1763 AFTER ep.m. 
Court-martial the Cap'nl Court-martial the Cap'nl Court..,artlal the Cap'nl 
Cap'n Crunch Week: A badjoke run amuck! 
BUBBLES! 

Katy says, Be Decadent!" (shes so tun!) 
SODOM AND GOMORRAH FRIDAY NITE USC 'PREPARATION' 
Remember last year at USC? The touch­
down the refs gave tor tree NO-USC 
REVENGE FOR THE IRISH' T-shirtson 
sale th1s week dunng dinner · all d1n1ng 
halls$6.00 
BLOW AWAY USC BUBBLES BUBBLES BUBBLES 
DANA HOVIG DANA HOVIG DANA HOVIG BEWAAEIIII 
CAMPUS SCREAM IS BACKI 11 P.M. THURSDAY 10/20/83 
Marya -Have a safe trip. Love, Jim. 
eels & chaps· slutman and stallronman (sodrum· ah chool) · have a great trme taproca head&. & don't forget me when the llurrres tall on the 26th you're out of con· troll shake rt easy, Jellymen. & be sate I'll mrss you. Hrggs p.s. see you rn the salad next week!! 
CAMPUS SCREAM IS BACK -11 P.M. THURSDAY, OCT. 20,1983. 
Boston (;lub/Phrlly Club Tarlgater Refreshments and food way before. all durrng. and way after USC game. Look tor the Falcon and signs on Green Field near semor bah. Yo. ~~orne have some fun wrth some Wild Easterners. 
Boaton Club October Break Bus. Loadrng at 6:30 p.m. at the C.C.E . departing around 7 p.m. Relreahments as usual on the bus. Eat d1nner before the bus leaves. Have a wicked awesome break. One roundtrip and two one ways 
(Boston to NO) remarn available 
Phlily Club/Boston Club T ailga1ah Cheesesteaks, chowdah, Hoagres and Boston Baked Beans won't be served. but plenty of refreshments will. Saturday at 8 
a.m. on Green Field near Senior Bar Look lor the Infamous Falcon Everyone welcome. 
CHRIS KELLY Luck o· the Irish to you on Saturday. I know you've got what rt takes. Show them I Have a great break. 
GREATEST TALENT SHOW IN THE HISTORY OF THE WORLD I THE SO AIN TALENT SHOW. ON SORIN'S POACH. SAT. 10-12 (BEFORE THE USC GAME) COME SEE SI..,GING, DANCING, COM· EDY AND GOLDFISH. 
TO MY BIG MAD BROTHER FROM OIL· LON. HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY. HAVE A GOOD ONE. I DON'T KNOW WHAT I'D DO WITHOUT YOU. LOVE VA, LITTLE SIS 
Hey you Zarters · Rick Tony and Dave. 
Welcome to Cavanaugh Hall, we hope 
you enJOY your stay. ZARF! Oh, you have 
toilet seat covers. Lose all motor control. I want to hold your zart. I seem to have an aabnormally small mouth. Polo · an or· gasmic expenence. Eat seduct1vely We're so glad we've had thrs time togeth· er Love. The Zarle«as. Steph Marra. Carolyn 
II I only knew what I would do rt thrs IN· CREDIBLE PERFECT GUY popped up or has he? D. 
Mrss Amerrca·s quote tor the week We passed out you guys · REALLY!" 
Sparky and Phil Senor Kelly s was great' Next trme we·tt pay Thanks lor a tun trme. Moand Katie 
Senorita F1nch. T1enes unas vacac1ones tantast1casl Senor Harmon 
Boa1on Club/Phrlly Club USC Wrcked Excellent T ailgaler•See Juhus Ervrng and Larry Brrd get sloppy on Green Freid near sen1or bar. Family and fnends welcome You won't regret participating 1n th1s awesome event. 
Boaton Club October Break Bus Loadrng at 6:30 p.m. at the C C. E.. departing around 7 p.m. Refreshments as usual on the bus. Eat dinner before the bus leaves. Have a wicked awesome break. One roundtrip and two one ways (Boston to NO) remarn avarlable 
' 
SLOW DEATH-CATCH ITI 
Dear Crndy T.. Welcome to N.D. I love you. Mike 
Bergrn--When they say. Bow parr take it away" I JUSt hope the stern srx can keep upwrth us Ill 
Lynn H. · Work on those points rn the Bahamas! A 44 writ never doll 
NEED RIDE to Niagra.NY area call John at 8630 
TO LE HONEY· HAVE THE SUPER HAPPIEST LATE BIATHDAYI SUPER BABE HEART, ALL THE KITTIES. 
GREG WHITE: IT WAS GOOD FOR US-­WAS IT GOOD FOR YOU? LOVE, THE PROPOSITIONED AND THE OTHER WOMAN 
A rose is a rose IS a Roaenatrek:h (Un jour en retard, ma1s ...} Bon Ann1versa1re!!! 


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Daoie-USC gam.e, to be played on Saturday, is being shown live via closed-circuit signal in the ACC arena All tickets are S5 for the showingon a theatre-size screen, and are on sale at ACC Gate 10 and all regular outlets. NCAA regulations prohibit any live television showingofthe game. -The Observer 
TheNotreDameWeightliftineOubwill 
be holding its second meeting tonight at 7 in the thirdfloor gymnas­tics room ofthe Rockne Memorial. This is an important meeting so members are asked to please attend. Seminars, future contests, and memberships will be explained at the meeting.1bose unable to at­tend the meeting should call Matt Kelleher at 1206 after 11 p.m.­
The Obseroer 
MorrisseyHall finished first in yesterday's in­
terhall cross-country 2 1/2 mile run, the second of the season. Cavanaugh finished second. Jeff Westhaven of Morrissey came in first overall, with Frank Maneri of Alumni and Morrissey's Ed Reilly finishing second and third respectively. Morrissey also won last week's meet, with Stanford second. In that meet, Westhoven and Maneri were number one and two across the finish line with Doug Christensen ofOff-Campus finishing third. -The Observer 
Thursday, October 20, 1983 -page 11 
Those WhO participated in the Domer Six-Mile , Run can pick up their T-shirts beginning tomorrow morning at 8 at · the Non-Varsity Athletics office. -The Observer 
The Century Club has new log cards available to it5 members. They can be obtained at the Non-Varsity Athletics Office or at the Rockne pool on the bulletin board. Please turn in your completed cards and pick-up new ones. Also, due to increasing membership, the first newsletter has been delayed to include all the new members. Expect the first issue either right before fall break or right after break. -The Observer 
Student basketball tickets are still available. They can be obtained from the ticket office on the second floor of the ACC. -The Observer 
The Flying Fathers, known as "the Harlem Globetrotters ofice hockey," will play a game on Wednesday, Nov. 9 at the ACC for the benefit of Phoenix House, the halfway house for recovering alcoholic women in South Bend. The Fathers, an internationally-known group of priests, have all at one time played either amateur or pro hockey prior to entering the seminary. They will play 20-minute periods against the Notre Dame club hockey team, the St. Joseph's High School hockey team, and the Ice Boxers ofthe Michiana Senior League. -The Observer · 

...Paxson 
continuedjrompage 16 
Oliver Robinson and placed guard 
Roger Phegley on the injured 
reserve list with tendinitis. 
Head coach Morris McHone said 
he's just glad Paxson finally showed 
up for camp. 
"Even though he's behind our other guards at this time, there are still 1 0 days before regular season and that's much better than if the season already had begun," McHone said. 
Paxson's brother, Jim, is a guard 
with the Portland Trail Blazers. 
Buy 
Observer 
Classifieds 


BEER BUSCH 
24 LOOSE 



1 
Qtr _
I ~~C~!LDB 
~UArtTS 



PRICES QOOD THRU OCT. 22,1983 
WHILE SUPPLIES LAST 

:=. 
LIQUOR 
Seagrams Seven 499 Crown 1so 
ClAN lfacGREGOR 
SCOTCH 
9.79
1.75 LITER 
BEAMS 
]49
VODKA 
1.75 LITER 
KEGS 
2999
BUDWEISER 
Old Style Ya Barret 
26.99 
OLD MILWAUKEE 
23.99 
PLUS DEPOSIT 

WINE 
GALLO 
3 LITER 


J. ROGEl CHAMPAGNE 
750 Ml. 




BRING IN THEIR AD 
WE WILL BEAT ALL ADVERTISED PRICES! 
=·:: 
WE ACCEPT CHEC WITH N.D.ID 

The Observer Thursday, October 20, 1983-page 12 

(g) 
E&J BRANDY 
6UD LiGHT. $~ 99 
$($49 

750ml. $J.119 
~
KESSlER 

$~ 99 STROHS 
750ml. 

KEGS
JACK DANIELS 

\~29.49
750ml. $fJlll 

Refuses part-time 
Rose released by Phillies 
Associated P~ss 
PHILADELPHIA -Veteran first baseman Pete Rose refused an offer to be retained a.~ a part-time player, and was released yesterday by the Philadelphia Phillies. 
"I don't like to play part-time," Rose said during a press conference called by Phillies' owner Bill Giles to announce the veteran player had been relea.o;ed. 
"I've heen an everyday player for so many years it's hard for me to play three days a week. I'm sure there are some teams out there who want me." 
Giles said. "I admire him more 
than anybody who ha.o; ever been in 
uniform." 
In turn, Rose said he wanted to wish the Phillies "nothing but success in the future" and added he had fond memories of his years in Philadelphia. 
Rose, 42. insisted he can play on a regular basis and said he would even be willing to consider switching from the National League to the American League as a designated hit­ter. 
"It's major league baseball," he said. "It's ea.o;ier to DH a few days a 
CANADIAN MIST 
1 
$Q99 1

the Plants and Flowers ahop 
1.75LITER ;;g I 

S.aemeat-Leman• Hall. SMC Caah & Carry Eve111day Low Prlcea 
J
.tfrlj~
'\.','-:;~/ 
-~ ~ 
,''-' 
~-......_,.v __.-..,__ 
~.~ :Y) ~":;/ 
~1-....:: 
Roe-: $10/doz. & ap SweetheartRo•-= $6.50I doz. & ap caD for more Info: 284-4597 
WOOlEN INDAN Weetem StON TmdlagPo.t 
5AW1T1 U.S. 31 No.-8oath Bead 
Boot. 
· bt pa~aD price-2nd pair•/2 prk:el 

-~ 
.. . 
t
);
....~.
;r7':_;; 
~~ 
1:~-i
1.75 LITER >, -~
$ n..099 
l ...~." 
week and then play a few days a Rose added that league rules week." prohibit such "conversations." Rose said he turned down a part­Rose was signed by the Phillies on time role with the Phillies hecause Dec. 5, 1978, as a free agent. He had he wanted to break Ty Cohb's all­played out his option with the Cin­time major league career hit record cinnati Reds. of 4,19 L Rose has 3,990 hits and The Phillies signed him to a four­needs only I 0 hits to become the year contract estimated at S3.3 second player in major league his­million over four years. tory to reach the 4,000 milestone. When the contract ran out last season, Rose was signed to a one­
His goal. he added, also is one of 
year deal with a $300,000 buyout
his major selling points as a free 
clause, which the Phillics could 
agent. 
invoke if they decided not to renew 
"I'm going after Ty Cobb's record 
the contract by Nov. 15, 1983. Rose 
and they're (another team) going to 
collected the 8300,000 yesterday.
cash in on that reward, too," Rose 
Rose played in the recent National 
said. 
League playoffs and World Series on­
The Phillies released Rose, who 
ly because Matuszek was brought up
hit only .245 with I 7 extra base hits 
from the Phillies' Portland farm team
in the Pacific Coast League Sept. 1 . .._ 


in 1983, because they plan to go with rookie Len Matuszek next season. 
There were rumors that Rose might sign with the Atlanta Braves, and play left field. When asked about that, Rose turned to his agent, Reuven Katz, for an answer. 
"Any rumor is a false rumor," Katz said. "We haven't had any conversa­tions with anyone. We didn't know until an hour ago what the Phillies had in mind." 

Whcit's up? 
Today 

boxing Novice tournament 4p.m. ACC Boxing Room 
ND volleyball at SW Michigan 
$81j799 
750 ml 0 
TAYLOt1 SHEflRIIES $J) !>9 
1 5 LITER 1.:-'j 
KUVUfU PLUr.1 fiiHE 
$~39 750ml ~ 
INGLIE~OO~ $~88 1 SLITER ~ 
J. ROGEl 
$2
29 
750ml. 
CUSAHO LIGHT 
$'1l29 
750 ml & 
RIUHITE 
$259 
750ml 
GALLO 
$J.I99 
3 LITER  11\J'  
•BEER•  
24 CANS  $/.199 

e:u-
BAUAtmN~ 
24 CANS $ f: 49 
HAMM'S • • ;;?J 
s'TRoH's .. $7f49 
24CANS $~95 
PABST.... \QJ 
24 CANS $tQ99MICHELOB 
Tomorrow 
soccer vs. Belmont Abbey 8 p.m. at Cartier Field 
SMC volleyball at Taylor University 
_, 
The Observer Thursday, October 20, 1983-page 13 

Tournament finals 

Novice boxing concludes today 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 

Tim Roe but won a unanimous deci­sion. Leonard had to take three Sports Editor sion. standing eight counts, but came on Pat Collins and Tony Rodriguez strong in the final round. It was too It's not Madison Square Garden. were also winners, advancing to the little too late. 
It's not even the ACC Main Arena. finals. Collins outlasted Dave Simon In what may have been the best It's the ACC Boxing Room, the site of for the decision, while Rodriguez bout ofthe day, Tim Dal1len beat Pat the Boxing Club's novice tourna­won a very close fight with Jack Bauer in the 165-lb. class in a split ment. First-time boxers get to show D'Ambrosia. decision. Dahlan, using his height their ability in this tournament . Rip Grafbecame the fifth boxer to and reach to his advantage, took the which opened Tuesday and will con­reserve a bout today as he gradually first round. but Bauer was able to get clude today. got the better of Mike O'Toole after inside in the second. Dahlen 
The semifinals, which were a close first round. clinched the fight with a strong third fought on Tuesday. involved 30 Mark St. Amand and Ed Bor­round. boxers competing in 14 three-round nemann will be fighting each other lbree ofthe last four fights ended fights (two boxers received byes). in the 1 50-lb. finals. St. Amand in TKO's as the bigger boxers took While the fighters will not be showed accurate aim as he found to the ring. Peter Riley scored a confused with Sugar Ray Leonard or Bill O'Malley's face often. O'Malley knockout as he pounded Chris Boom Boom Mancini, they know stood up to his punches until the Vargus before the fight was stopped how to punch. In fact, six of the 14 referee decided that he had taken at 2:00 ofthe second round. fights ended on TKO's. enough. The fight ended with a TKO Dave Gaus won the twelfth spot in 
The first fight set the tone for a at 1:30 ofthe third round. the finals as the referee decided that rough set ofmatches as Paul Ngo ad­In Bornemann's fight with Frank Mike Renaud had been hit too many 
Veteran Pete Rose was released yesterday by the Philadelphia vanced to the semis by knocking out Pimental, he did everything but times and stopped the fight at 1:45 of Phi/lies after refusing an offer to remain on with the team as a Steve Slaughter at 1 :2 5 of the first knock Pimental out. Bornemann the second round. part-time player. Rose says be is sure that another team will want round. Ngo was joined by Steve chased his opponent all over the Tom Burger, who may be the 
him. See related story on opposite page. Badyna who had a tougher time with ring, constantly landing punches strongest boxer in the tournament, and forcing three standing eight stopped a good boxer in Jim Acker­
***************************************..'*************;, counts. son, who, nevertheless, was unable 
The boxers at 160 pounds to protect himself from Burger. The
·: r---,Men's Hair Styling at its finest --rit£~eeltS: 
reached the finals in slightly dif­bout was stopped at 1:50 of thet ~~v A ~~ 'The Knights of the Castle' ~ Jim using
ferent ways. Kelly, his second round. height and reach. advantage, got the The final eight bouts will begin at better ofa slugfest with Andy Deem. 4 p.m. today in the Boxing Room,
We want you to look your best tie, a 
Shortly into the second round, Kelly which is located inside the Norththis fall with a distinctive custom 2 7 2~0312 * caught Deem with a hard right and Dome near Gate 3. The winners in 
designers hair cut from the expert ~ put him out on the floor. each weight group may or may not:t-s4-533 Terrace Lane 
stylists at the Knights. 277..1619 ~ Kelly's opponent in the finals will fight in the regular tournament that .,. Across from Martin's be Jeff Parlina, who held off a tough everyone knows about, but they 
ie (St.Rd.23) Haircut, Shampoo 
AI Leonard before winning the deci-have gotten offto a good start. 
iC * 
... 
Blow Dry, Condition *
* 

~ Regular $15.00 
~ * 
... Now $8.50 with coupon * 
... ... ** • • . Defense 
Applies to male patrons only
il: Hrs. Tue, Wed, Sat 8:30-5:30 *
* 

t .Thur, Fri 8:30-8:3o We are only minutes from cam * continuedfrom page /6
il: Mon. 9·2:30 
* 

Wilson recovered a fumble. way starter in high school. As a
***********************'COUPON********* * 
BEGINNER INTERMEDIATE 
SKI-BOOT-BINDING SALE SKIS BINDINGS BOOTS 

~··~
.iLp ::.1!D 
ALPINA VENUS

ELAN 903 LOOK 19 RS 7 
Retail $185.00 Retail $ 79.95 Retail $100.00 Sale Sale
Sale $111.00 $48.00 $60.00 Save 40°/o Save 40°/o Save 40°/o 
~ 
v

5285 '-.& :> /! ,~........._.JI,~ 
~ 

K2 528S SALOMON 637 NORDICA PULSAR 
Retail $225.00 Retail $1 05.00 Retail $100.00 Sale $169.00 Sale $79.00 Sale $75.00 Save 25°/o Save 25°/o 
Sav;A25% 

~~==========~~ 
r_r~
_OLIN 730 _::.,-, ~ 
\. ~----.:::iiiiiiiiiO.::=:=. 
OLIN 730 TUROLLA 380D NORDICA GALAXY Retail $245.00 Retail $135.00 
Retail $140.00 

Sale $196.00 Sale $1 08.00 
Sale $112.00 Sale 20°/o Save 20°/o Save 2oo;0 SATURDAY ONLY: BE PROFESSIONALLY FIT IN A SKI-THOTIC FROM NORDICA. THE SKI-THOTIC PLACES YOUR FEET IN A NATURAL ;:':;;, POSITION & ELIMINATES..PRONATION. THE BEST FIT FOR YOUR SKIt, BOOTS FOR ONLV0$25~·oo. SATURDAY ONLY. ELKHART STORE 
.., -~:~:~:~~~~~­··,"W'. -,.,.,~-~ 
.... 
SALE STARTS· 
,q 

FRIDAY OCT. 22 


16533 Ch•vt!lantl Road 1 Gr,Jngtor, lndran.r 46530 I 771 1121 
Throughout the day he provided 

senior he gained 1.100 yards in the good coverage. On the last defensive tailback slot. On defense he play of the game he returned an in­recorded 26 tackles and one inter­terception 73 yards for a touch­ception. He was an honorable men­down, although it was called back tion choice on Adidas' Scholastic due to a penalty. Coach prep All-America team. The Frederick, Maryland native 
From the Purdue game through was a two-way starter in high school. 
the. Army game, Ballage has con­He led his team to"'tm:·'§ta"t"t'cbam­
tl'riued to improve. The main reason pionship his senior year. In his 
is not a physical adjustment, but senior year, he gained 996 yards rus­
rather a good frame of mind. Ballage hing on 92 carries playing quarter­
says his confidence has improved. back. On defense. he had nine 
Ballage says, "Chris Brown and interceptions as a senior. 
Joe Johnson have helped me by just"When I came here in August," 
having confidence in me. They'reWilson says, "my goal was to make 
not worried about having to come the traveling squad and place well 
over and back me up. That has really on the depth chart." 
helped. As a freshman many people accept 
"Coach johnson has also helpedthe so-called freshmen mistakes. 
by showing his confidence in me." However, Wilson has avoided these 
Facing llSC quarterback Sean mistakes thus far. He does acknowl­Salisbury does not seem to bother edge a need for improvement. 
Ball age. 
"My best attribute is my quick­Ballage says, "I anticipate them to ness," he says. "But I need to work throw a lot, and probably at me. 

on coming up and stopping the run." 

However, I feel I'm due for some­The other youngster in the secon­
thing to happen. maybe a big inter­.;f:lary is Pat Ballage. At 6-2, 197 lb~ .. ception.'' he possesses good size and outstand­
If the coaching staff decides that ing quickness. 
Toran cannot play, the cornerback Ballage has started every game 
positions will be manned by two this year at the weak conerback slot. 
young players. But from what has He is fifth on the team in total tackles 
been demonstrated so far, Irish fans with 26. He also has caused one 
need not worry about Pat Ballage fumble and intercepted one pass. 
and Troy Wilson being in the lineup. Like Wilson, Ballage was a two-The future looks very bright. 



' 
The Observer Thursday, October 20, 1983 -page 14 
Midterms take toll 
Women's football winds down 
By MARY SIEGER 
,\ports Writer 
The playoffs are almost here and 
the (:ompetition for playoff spots is 
getting tougher. When we all return 
from October Break, there will be 
only one week remaining in the 
regular season for women's intedtall 
football making each game an im­
portant step toward the playoff.~. 
tast night, Walsh defeated Lyons 
25-7 and in another contest, Breen­
Phillips' closed their r;easort with· a 
26-0 victory over Badin. 
"We tried to have fun, we were relaxed and we played well," ex­plained Walsh team captain Mary Langer. Walsh, 4-2 on the season, has a chance to make the playoffs. "Ifwe beat Farley, then I'm sure we will," said Langer. She anticipates a com­petitive game against Farley and said last nighr's game put her team "in the right frame of mind for Farley." 
Yesterday's game officially closed 
Lyons' season and gave the team a 
1-6 final record. "We had fun, the 
team got close and that's all we 
wanted to do," said Lyons team cap· 
tain Manha Burns. 
Burns was not disappointed witl 

last nighr's final scorl· and said the 
game was closer than the final score 
indicated. "Walsh scored in the last 
I 0 seconds. so it's a lot closer than it 
appears," she said. 
B-P's win last night gives the team a 4-2 record and a good chance to sec some action in the playoffs. "We ning's performance and praised the offensive line for an excellent game. "They were executing well and had good momentum," she said. 
With two consecutive wins at the end of the season, B-P would have momentum in the playoffs. Erhardt said the most important acheive­ment for the team this season is regained spirit in the team, "I hope we'll make it all the way ... we still want it (the. championship) back," she said. ,. 
Badin's loss last ntght can be par­tially attributed ~to midterms. According to Badin team captain Sal­ly Esposto, only 10 players arrived for the game. Those 10 players ended up covering unfamiliar of­fensive and defensive postions. "We were all playing positions we usually don't," said Esposto. 
She was not disappointed with last night's performance and the game gave Badin an 0-5 record. "It was a 
Applications for 
Chairman ofthe Mock Convention 
can be picked up in the Student Government Offices on the second floor of Lafortune They are due 4:30p.m. on Wednesday. November 2 
fun game; we were just really disor­ganized," she said. 
On Sunday, Badin dropped a game to Lewis, 9-0. Esposto described the game as Badin's best of the sea'>on. "Our defense looked good and our offense is improving with every game," said Esposto. 
In a close contest earlier this week, Pa'iquerilla West lost to B-P, 16-14. P.W. athletic commissioner Mary Jaoe Lorton said the team. .~didn't react well under pressu're.';.. 
•Although the offense has improved in recent weeks, Lorton said the of­fense is ·~too predictable." She plans to add more variety and to mix up plays more often. 
In another game last Sunday, Pasquerilla East defeated Lyons 20­
0. The game improved P.E.'s record to 4-1 and continues the tie for first place in the league between P.E. and Lewis. 

Hockey Standings 
In thts year·s NHL playoff format. the top four teams in each diviSIOn make the playoffs. regardless of over· 
ail league standtng. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE Adams Division 
w  L  T  GF  GA Pis.  
Quebec  6  2  1  50  34  13  
Boston  4  2  0  28  18  8  
Buffalo  3  3  -1  24  27  7  
Hartford  3  2  1  21  20  7  
Montreal  3  . 3. 0  32  27  6  

. N. Y.,Ranger~ Phili!(delphta ·~  Patrick Division 0 -,._.,:~ :.f ~ . ·O  -34 :lt  19 13  ·­14: Chtcago tO •. St. LoLli:;  Norris DiviSion 5 '2' i:i 5 2 0  ..; ~~ • 3'1 21J' 30 23  10 10  
N. Y ;lslandert>  4  3  0  30  at  B  Torontd  ~ 3  3  1  33  38  
NewJersey - ·5  0  17  28  2  Minnesota  23.'12727  5  
Pittsburgh  't  6  0  17  31  2  Detroit,  3  2. 23  31  4  
Washtngton  0  7  0  15  .32  o:  
Yesterday's Results  
Detrott 4, St. Louis 2  
N.Y. Rangers 3. Calgary 1  
Hartford 3, Washtngton 0  
Quebec 8, Toronto 1  
Chtcago 6, New Jersey 3  
Montreal 12, Winnipeg 2  
Edmonton 10, Vancouver 7  


Annanao·s Barber & Hair Styje Shop 1437 North Ironwood Drive Sputh Bend, IN 
HOME OF THE IRISH 
Four Stylists to Serve You Five minutes from cam us 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Dvlslon 
w  L  T  GF  GA  Pis  
Edmonton  7  0  0  44  27  14  
Calgary  2  4  1  20  26  5  
Vancouver  2  5  'O  34  38  4  
. Winmpeg  1·  4  2  23  36  4  
Los Angeles  0  4  2  16. 26  2  


501 E. Sample 
233-2590 10% Discount with university 10 
I Rll CHARI.JING & STARTING SVSHM CHECI< 


~!::::::::.:;: ::..:::;:~::-.:~~--~.·.·;.·.·--.·••_._:-·-·-·_..... : ----••..•·:.....·•• ....... -.-... ·•·.-... · .. _._._..·:.-.·.-~: ...-;.-~~---_\ 

~c:tc:let~--------------------------~Th_u_r_~_~_,o_c_to_b_er_2_0,_19-8-3--p-~-e--15 



The Daily Crossword 



45 Arthurian 18 Not a soul heaven 19 Leans 


foot 5 Start a 
garden 10 Garden tool 14 Aware of 15 More 
uncommon 16 Arabian chieftain 17 Take a firm stand 20 Certain atoms 21 Eye con· 
dltion 22 Wild hog 23 Competent 24 New York 
city 27 Tread 
33 Cheer 34 Organic compound 35 Strong point 
36 "For­jolly good ... " 
37 Afternoon affair 38 Oklahoma Indian 
39 Baseball 
teams 40 Exalt 42 Tall in 
the ­43 Tiny amount 44 Counsel, 
old style 



All Rights Reserved 
Campus 
•4-6 p.m. -Seminar, 'Brazil Today,' Dr. Sergio Abranches & Dr. Fabio Wanderley Reis, Con­ference Room, 1201 Memorial Library, Sponsored by The Helen KeUoa Institute for lntemational 
St..dics 

•4:39.p.m.-MllllllCcl
........'Stability illthe: Theory of Group Actiom,' Prof Btalyniclti Binlla, Warsaw University, Room 114, Computing Center Math Building 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Pre-Professional Society, Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation 4 Reception, American Hospital Supply Corporation, Alumni Room, Mor­ris Inn, For Senior Accounting and Finance Majors, and MBA Students 

•7-8:15 
p.m. -Bible Study, Room 114, O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by the Campus Bible Fellowship 

•7,9:30, 
& Midnight -Film, 'Long Gray Line,' Engineering Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Presentation and Reception, Morgan Stanley Company, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn, For Senior Arts & Letters, BBA, and Engineering Students 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Featuring the Mt. St. Joseph Glee Club and Saint Mary's Women's Cl)oir, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College 

•8:30 
p.m. -Pep Rally, Featuring Allen Pinkett and Steve Beuerlein, Sponsored by Sorin Hall 


TV Tonight 
7p.m. 1<' Gimme A Break 
~" 
22 Magnum, PI 
28 Trauma Center 
34 The Ascent of Man 
7:30p.m. 16 Ma Ma's Family 
8p.m. 16 We Got it Made 
22 Simon and Simon 
28 9 to 5 
34 All Creatures Great and Small 
8:30p.m. 16 Cheers 
28 It's Not Easy 
9p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 
22 Knots Landing 
28 20/20 
34 Matters of Life and Death 
10p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
Far Side· ' 
/0·20 

"Kemosabe! ... The music's starting! The mu­sic's starting!" 
48 Surfeits 
52 Put one's ­(try to impress) 
54 Feminine 
ending 55 Hurries 56 Solo 57 Burden 58 Delete 59 Jerk 
DOWN 1 Arizona Indian 2 Responsi· 
btlity 3 Preminger 4 Rose Bowl 
sport 5 Settle in advance 
6 Kindof beam 7 Sandy's 
sounds 8 Modern: pref. 9 Musical instrument 10 Changes the decor 11 Otis of baseball 12 Flightless bird 13 Piscivorous birds 
23 Large 
artery 
24 Mountain 
ridge 25 Flax cloth 26 Distend 27 Mockery 28 Tendency 29 Artist's 
need 30 AS'Pect 32 An acting 
Reed 35 Research· 
er's memo 36 Retreat 38 Evidence 39 Lowest 
point 41 Having a 
handle 42 Bristly 44 Floats 45 Genesis 
name 46 Presiden· 
tial no 47 Moviedog 48 Relative 
of a xyst 49 Scarlett's home 50 Leprechaun land 51 Neighbor of Neb . 53 Hockey great 


Sports 

Ho~y Cross willface Zahm tonight in the battlefor the playoffs fn !be !.t>aiYv Dir,isi(m ofmen's interha/1football. Dillon and Flan­ner bave already clincbed po~t3:::Json berths. See Tim Antonini's story at rightfor more details. 
Ends holdout 
By TOM ANTONINI 
SjK)rts Writer 
Flanner Hall clinched a spot in the 
men's intc:rhall playoffs and Dillon 
extended its win streak to nineteen 
games in action Tuesday under the 
lights at Cartier Field. Both teams 
will advance from the Parseghian 
Divi'iion to the playoffs while the 
Rockne and Leahy Division playoff 
teams arc as yet undecided. 
Flanner defeated Off-Campus 15­0 over the weekend before facing Grace on Tuesday night. It was a game of big plays and Flanner came up with most of them en route to a 22-7 victory. Quarterback Jack 
Seiler led the way early by tossing two long touchdown passes as Flan­ner jumped to a 13-0 halftime lead. Grace came back at the beginning of the third quarter to make it 13-7 and was moving in for the tying touch­down in the fourth. However, the Hanner defense stiffened and came up with one ofits five interceptions on the night, this one returned all the way for the game clinching score. Flanncr added a late field goal to finish up the scoring. 
The game was closer than the score indicated. "Grace was tough," Seiler said. "They have a good of­fense." Seiler is looking forward to the November playoffs. "We're ready. We had a tough game with 

Thursday, October 20, 1983-page 16 
Flanner, Dillon halls clinch spots in interhall postseason playoffs 
Paxson signs contract with Spurs 
AS..'iOCiated Press 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas -The San Antonio Spurs' No. I draft pick, guard John Paxson of Notre Dame, ended his kngthy holdout yesterday and signed a two-year contract with the National Ba'ikctball Association club. 
Paxson was the 19th selection overall in the 1983 collegiate draft. He joined other San Antonio players at a workout yesterday after­
noon and said he had "no regrets" him properly before regular season 
about not signing a contract earlier. 
begins." "I have no second thoughts," he 
San Antonio reportedly gave Pax­said. 
son $85,000 the first season, jum­Spurs General Manager Bob Bass 
ping to 595,000 the second year. said Paxson flew into town from his 
The San Antonio Express-News Kettering, Ohio, home yesterday 
said the 6-2, 185-pound guard also morning to sign the contract. 
could earn up to $100,000 a year "We are all happy that the negotia­
with the incentives in the contract. tions are finally completed," Bass 
To make room for Paxson, the said. "Now we can takeJohn and get 
Spurs waived second-year guard him onto the basketball floor. Hope­
See PAXSON, page 11
fully, we still have time to evaluate Dillon last time, but we're ready." in what should be a hard-fought 

ln other action, Dillon stopped game. The second game will feature Morrisey, I 0-0, before a large and Holy Cross, the third team in the vocal crowd. With a 5-0 record, Dil­divi'iion seeking a playoff hid. Holy 
lon will receive one of the two byes Cross, which shut out Cavanaugh, 6­for the first round of the playoffs. 0, on Sunday, will face Zahm. Morrissey ends its season with a 0-3­
2 record. The Rockne Division involves the 
The Leahy and Rockne Division closest race. Howard sits in first playoff spots are still up for grabs a'i place at 2-0-1 but St. Ed's, Sorin, and the regular sca'iOn winds down Pangborn are all right behind with tonight at Cartier. Alumni nipped 1-1-1 records. Howard and St. Ed's Zahm, 9-7, over the weekend to stay arc scheduled to play at 8:.30 with close to undefeated Stanford. The Pangborn taking on Sorin in two teams will meet at 6:.30 tonight tonight's final game. 
Able underclassmen bolster Irish defense 
ByTIMDOYLE 
Sports Writer 

Some things in college football arc accepted as matters of fact. One of these is that the University ofSouth­ern California likes to run the t<>Ot­ball. USC has a habit of producing Heisman Trophy winners at the tail­back position, and opponents' game 
plans usually revolve around the idea that successfully stopping the run will likely result in a victory. 
As usual the key for Notre Dame to win Saturday is tc ~!cp USC'; tAi:k. That is, USC's quarterback. Hard to believe, isn't it? 
One ofthe few bright spots for the 2-3-1 Trojans has been the play of Sean Salisbury. This season the junior signal caller has completed 86 of I54 passes for 1,120 yards, nine touchdowns, and four intercep­tions. He is ranked 18th in the nation in passing at 131.9 yards per game. Two weeks ago against Washington State Salisbury was 19 of25 for 256 yards and three touchdowns. 
With the task of stopping a top quarterback, the pressure will be on Notre Dame's defensive secondary. In the past few weeks this group's improvement has been a key to the improvement of the overall team. 
Last week against Army, the Irish started one freshman, one sopho­more, one junior, and one senior. No one questions the abilities of junior Joe Johnson or senior Chris Brown. However, people do tend to wonder when freshmen and sophomores start. 
Due to the injury to senior co­captain Stacey Toran, freshman Troy Wilson started at the strong coner­back position. Sophomore Pat Ballage ha'i been the starter at the weak cornerback position all sea'iOn. 
TO~!"!, 6-4, 206 pounds, is listed a~ questionable for Saturday. He did not practice Monday or Tuesday. He practiced yesterday wearing a knee brace. 
Defensive o>Ordinator and defensive secondary coach Jim Johnson said there "is an 85 percent chance that Stacey will play Satur­day. 
"If he cannot play, Troy Wilson will definitely be his replacement." 
Wilson, 5-l I, 170 pounds, replaced Toran in the South Carolina game. f-Ie started last week against Army and turned in a fine performance. 
On the first play from scrimmage 
See DEFENSE, page 13 
Let's try to use some imagination 
Ever since the Miami game and the stories and columns that followed, there have been a number of letters addrt·ssed to the sports department. These letters have been both negative and positive, with, of course, the ru·gative letters being unsigned. The only thing that seems to be consistt·nt about the lettt·rs is that they dis­cuss one topic: the Notre Dame students. 
Some of the discussion is pretty abusive. One obvious­
ly knowledgeable fan (I'm being sarcastic) complained 
that tht· Mudents, especially the one who wrote the 
negative column ("dt·grading rhetoric") after the game, 
were "embarrassing the people of the community." The 
person, who naturally refused to sig.n the kttc:r, also felt 
that "the students are a poor example of school spirit" 
and can't hold a match to the Miami students when it 
comes to helping the team to win. 
Most ofthe other letters weren't so humorous, though, and made tht· point that, whether or not the students feel disappointed about the way things have gone, their im­J>I>rtance to the success of the team is great, and their supJ>I>rt is vital if the team is going to recover. 
Even the ktter that I quoted, however, talked about the need for creativity and wit among the students. At first, I didn't pay much attention to this. After all, despite the small size of the student body, you won't find many louder. The number ofstudents that leave before the end of the game is very small, unlike student bodies ofSouth Carolina, Colorado, and Miami. And there is still nothing like a Notre Dame home football weekend. 
The fact that the letter-writers attacked the students wa'i bothersome, however. It was like a personal attack because Notre Dame students have a huge amount of pride in their team and in their own support ofthat team. 
But they were right in saying that there is a lack of l'rt'ativity among the students 
You <:an look at tht-day-to-day life at Notre Dame and sn· tht· lat·k of l'rt'ativity. Why else would something so trivial a~ Cap'n Crunch cause such a stir? It's not really the students' fault, because the university seems to like deddin for itself when the students can or can't do 

Mike Sullivan 
Sports Editor 
something unique. All this blandness carries into the ul­timate Notre Dame social event -the home football weekend. 
Think about a home football weekend. Everyone gets up in the morning to the sound of the Victory March, gathers together, and heads out to the tailgaters in Green Field. The students may move from tailgatcr to tailgatcr, but by about one o'clock, they begin to march toward the stadium. 
Once in the seats, the students stand up, one ofthe few original actions. A small number may stand around the goal posts and create a tunnel for the team, but then it's back to the same old cheers and crowd participation where the cheerleaders actually do lead the cheers. 
The only exception is a nationally-televised game where people bring big banners and flood the field in hopes ofgetting in the picture. 
Except for the efforts ofa small number ofpeople, this 
is as far a'i the creativity goes. It is almost always the same 
thing day in and day out. 
This Southern Cal game gives the students a great op­J>I>rtunity to be creative. There are some who realize this, and that is why you see T -shirts about Ia~t year's game and the creation of a Trojan Horse. The problem is that the ones who are showing this uniqueness are just a small minority ofthe student body. 
Midterms were a good excuse earlier in the week, but most studenrs are just about finished with them and yet, the creativity levc:l is low. 
Why is this game such a great opportunity? Well, if you know an thin about Notre Dame football, ou'd know that Southern Cal has given Notre Dame teams a bard time for the past decade, and has ruined many promi'iing Notre Dame sea'i<lns. No present student, except for some grad students, has ever seen the Irish beat the Trojans. This year, the Irish have a good chance to get revenge on the Trojans, on behalf of themselves and all the students who have seen USC beat the Irish time and again. 

Another rea.'iOn is last year's game in which tht· rl'ferecs 
gave the Trojans the game. The T-shirt people and tht' 
Trojan Horse people are playing this up (an artide on the 
Trojan Horse appears in the news section today). 
The best reason of all is that we are Notre Dame stu­
dents who take great pride in our team and in oursupf>l>rt 
ofthe team. We hate to be shown up by any other student 
body. When we read an article inSports Illustrated prais­
ing the Tcxa'i A&M students, it hurts. 
I will not pretend to be a creative person, so I don't really have a lot ofgreat suggestions. It would be great if there were banners all over campus tomorrow. It'd be great ifmost ofthc students went out on the field to greet the team. 
Maybe the old newspaper trick would be effc<:tive. It would be neat to see the entire student section holding up newspapers when USC comes out on the field. 
Another possibility could be that everyone wears green jerseysor shirts just like the football team did when it last beat Southern Cal in 1977. 
These are only suggestions. I'm sure that there are more creative people around than me. After all, some­body came up with the idea to paint No. I Moses' finger­nails. 
Sure, the football team hasn't lived up to expectations. 
But, this makes the test even more important. Now is the 
chance to show tht· other spectators, the alumni, and tht' 
critics that Notre Dame students arc the wittiest, the 
loudt'St, the most cn·ative -in short, the ht'st -stu­
dents in the country. 
So, even if the team is not always a sourn· of great 
pride, the support ofthe team is. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------­


