Cartoon contest -page 10 

VOL XVIII, NO. 22 thl" im.kpl"ndl"nt :-.tuul"nt new:-.papt-r :-crYing notre dame and saint mary's MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1983 

The Observer/Thorn Bradley
Brief festivities 
residents conducted their campus-wide raid on Members ofthe "Boxer Bandits"proudly display their Friday, and celebrated afterwards with some oftheir answer to the annual panty raid. The Breen-Phillips "victims." 
Student Senate plans to provide laundry service option for women 
By SUSAN SAKER said that if enough interest is shown Bertino is send ing letters to all News Staff in the next two weeks, a more per­women on campus explaining the manent system will be extended to option of laundry service from St. One of the last bastions ofa male­all women. Michael's. This letter stresses that dominated campus will soon disap­"This will all be done on a trial the service is strictly optional, but pear when St Michael's Laundry basis and although the service is op­that enough interest must be shown opens it doors to Notre Dame tional, we need to see a substantial in the next few weeks for the women. interest by women for the service," program to be implemented. Ber­In response to recent complaints said Bertino. If over the next few tino also plans to pub licize the op­regarding the Uni versity's male­weeks enough women use St. Mic­tion of women's laundry service by only laundry service, the Student hael's laundry service, then laundry posting signs in the women's dorms. Senate is working on a plan that bags will be issued to those women Response to the proposed plan is would give all women on campus who want the service and laundry difficult to predict. Dorothy Ann regular access to St. Michael's pick-up schedules will be set up for David, president of Badin Hall laundry. The new system would ex­women's dorm as in men's dorms. believes that women may appreciate tend laundry service to women on a Women customers will be billed the service, but that the plan must be purely optional basis. according to the amount of laundry . approached properly if a women's 
Currently, a small number of serviced and will be able to pay by laundry service is to begin. women bring their laundry to St. cash, check, or charge the bill to Bertino hopes that successful im­Michael's and pay the exact amount their accounts. No initial fee will be plementation ofhis proposal will al­either by cash or by charging the bill charged, as is done with the men's leviate the complaints of "sexism" to their account. Rob Bertino, stu­laundry service. that have risen in recent years dent senator in charge of the plan, To inform women of this plan, among the women ofthe University. 
Irish terrorists escape from prison 
Associated Press bedlam" at the 900-inmate jail smuggled into the jail, and a later outside Belfast, site ofthe 1981 Irish search turned up 20 rounds of am­
BELFAST, Northern Ireland -Republican Army hunger strike and munition. Thirty-eight IRA guerrillas armed home to some of Northern Ireland's As the truck sped off through the with smuggled weapons shot their most-hardened convicted bombers acres of prison grounds, a guard way out of top-security Maze prison and killers. noticed a bogus guard at the wheel yesterday in the biggest jailbreak in All roads leading from the prison and swung his car in front of the British history. They killed one were blocked, and police sealed off main gate, said the government guard and wounded six others, au­the M1 motorway, a major four-lane spokesman. 
thorities said. turnpike near the Maze, creating Inmates clashed with prison of­
Army helicopters and scores of huge traffic jams in both directions. ficers at the blocked gate, but policemen with tracker dogs A spokesman for the Northern managed to flee on foot. Many swarmed around the countryside, Ireland Office said the escapees -stopped motorists out for a Sunday recapturing 11 prisoners within all convicted Provisional Irish drive on the quiet country lanes hours. But 27 were still at large late Republican Army guerrillas from a around the prison, hijacked the cars yesterday, police said, and were segregated cellblock -produced and kept going. believed headed for the Irish border handguns, overpowered guards and Some of the escapees were or the safety of West Belfast's seized a food truck for a getaway. recaptured within hours in the open nationalist enclaves. The prisoners, some wearing countryside and others while trying 
Prisoners stopped motorists and guard's uniforms and others wearing to swim a river to safety. hijacked cars "all over the place" to just underpants, jumped in the back Police and British troops through-make their getaway, an officer said. ofthe truck. The prisoners had hand­
see BELFAST page 4
He said the escape created "total guns and other weapons apparently 

Cease-fire agreement announced by Syrians in Lebanese civil war 
Associated Press dent Amin Gemayel in Beirut. 
Bandar said, "This is the beginning 

BEIRUT, Lebanon -A cease-fire ofthe road for Arab solidarity an d for agreement aimed at halting the freeing Lebanon from Israeli oc­Lebanese civil war took effect Mon­cupation." He called the pact "a his­day morning, and authorities toric achievement that guarantees reported that gunfire halted in ob­the establishment ofa balanced rule servance ofthe truce. in Lebanon." 
The agreement had been an­Christian neighborhoods in east nounced Sunday night by Saudi and Beirut came under heavy shelling Syrian officials, hours after a yesterday from the Druse and renewed attack near U.S. Marine Syrian-controlled mountains positions at Beirut Airport. Four overlooking the capital, the state Marines were wounded during the radio said. day. Marine spokesman Maj. Robert 
The cease-fire accord, which took Jordan said mortar rounds and effect at 6 a.m. today ( 11 p.m. yester­rocket-propelled grenades hit the day), was announced in Damascus, perimeter ofthe Marine base in west where Syrian Foreign Minister Beirut about 45 minutes after the Abdui-Halim Khaddam told a news truce was supposed to have taken conference, "An agreement has hold at 7:30p.m. -12:30p.m.South been reached for a cease-fire in Bend time. Lebanon, ending the war and start­Another Marine spokesman, War­ing a national dialogue. What was ac­rant Officer Charles Rowe, said one hieved is great." Marine was slightly wounded in the 
"We appeal to all our Lebanese nighttime barrage as he and the brothers to go beyond the other men again went on their highe bloodshed and the hatred in order to state alert, diving into bunkers and start the building of Lebanon," he foxholes. said. As the shells fell, the battleship 
_Druse leader WalidJumblalt, who New Jersey patrolled offshore in a 
attended talks with Khaddam and show ofU.'>. naval might. others, said he had ordered his State radio said U.S. presidential 
militiamen to stop firing at 6 a.m. envoy Robert C. Mcfarlane told 
Monday. Lebanese President .Amin Gemayel 
Khaddam said, "We appeal to all earlier that all parties had agreed to a our Lebanese brothers to go beyond truce, and President Reagan's · na­the bloodshed and the hatred in or­tional security adviser, William der to restart the building of Clark, told reporters in New York Lebanon." that an agreement would be an­
Lebanon's latest civil war began nounced in D.amascus. Sept. 4 with the withdrawal oflsraeli Reports of an accord to end hos­troops from the mountains tilities between the Lebanese army overlooking Beirut to a new defense and Syrian-backed militias have per­line further to the south. Syrian­sisted in Beirut for days. But Syria backed Druse, reportedly aided by reportedly had blocked a cease-fire Palestinian guerrillas, battled fierce­by making new demands on the ly with Christian militiamen and Lebanese government. Lebanese army troops in the moun­One of the Marines wounded tains and on the capital's outskirts. around noon Sunday was shot in the 
Khaddam and Saudi Prince Bandar arm by a sniper east ofBeirut airport, Bin Sultan refused to provide details Jordan said. The terminal adjoins the of the agreement at the Damascus southern slums where the Shite news conference, saying they would Amal militia has been fighting the be disclosed later by Lebanese Presi-Lebanese army for three days. 

The Observer/Thorn Bradley
Flanner banner 
Following Saturday's loss to Miami, members of Planner Hall 
expressed theirdispleasure with Football Coach Gerry Faust. Game 
stories in Sports, page 12. 


Monday, September 26, 1983 -page 2
The Observer 

Travelers stranded by a sudden grounding of Con­tinental Airlines swampt·d other airlines yesterday while officials of the Tcxas-haM·d carrier worked out plans to get some of the planes back in the air. Contint·ntal, which has lost $109 million so far this year-$-!00 million over the last four years-and is S650 million in debt, annoned Saturday it is filing for reorganizatin under Chapter 1 1 of tht· federal bankruptcy laws. Formerly the nation's eighth-largest airline, Continental is the second major airline to go to bankruptc,y court. Uranitf International, also based in Texas, shut down last year. 
-AP 
President Reagan's speech before the u.N. 
General Assembly will be carried live today by all three commercial network.~. AIJC and CBS said their live coverage would begin at 
10:~0 a.m. (EDT); NBC said it was not sure when its coverage would begin. Reagan's speech is scheduled to begin at 10:35 a.m. (EDT)­
AP 
In last night's Emmy Awards ceremony, 
"llill Street Blues" and "Cheers" each captured four awards, while "St. Elsewhere" and "Taxi" won three Emmys apiece. All four of tht·st· programs appt:ar on NBC. "Hill Street Blues" was named the best drama series, and "Cheers" was honored as the best comedy series. Shelley Long of "Cheers" and Judd Hirsch of "Taxi" were named tht· best lead actress and actor, respectively, in a comedy series. The best lead actress in a drama series was Tyne Daly of "Cagney and Lacey" (CBS), while the best actor in thf~ category was f~d Flanders of"St. Elsewhere." "The Thorn Birds" captured most of the awards for a limited series or special, including Barbara Stanwyk -lead actress, Jean Simmons -supporting actress, Richard Kiley -supporting actor, and best art direction. Tommy Lee Jones of "The Executioner's Song" was the best lead actor in this catagory. SCTV Network won an award for the best writing in a variety or music program. The other awards won by "Hill Street Blues" were for directing, writing, and film sound mixing. "Cheers" also won for directing ;md writing. -AP 
•,.•pli. diu~j,. 
Of Interest ~ 
One of the best kept secrets on the Notre 
Dame campus is the Student Government Information Bureau, 
otherwise known as Ombudsman. Says director Andy Tucker, "We 
have all the information on file that could pertain to an N.D. stu· 
dent." Ombudsman can he contacted at 239-0BUD for information 
concerning movie times, bus schedules, ticket information, and any 
other activities happening on campus. In the past, Ombudsman has 
been located on the second floor of Lafortune, but it is now in the 
process of transferring its headquarters to the first floor, next to the 
Student Activities Office. Although the move was delayed when a 
newly-ordered information booth had to he returned because of 
poor construction, Tucker said, "As of today, we're supposed to be 
downstairs." -The Observer 
There will be a Fun and Learnorganization­
al meeting tonight at ..., in the Center for Social Concerns coffee 
house. Fun and Learn is a volunteer organization that works with 
children who have learning disabilites. For more information call 
Denise Spring ( 28~·129~) or Laura Lambke (284-5192).-The Ob­
server 
Weather 
Mostly sunnyand warm today.High in the mid 
70s. Southwest winds 5 to 1 0 mph. Fair and mild tonight. Low in the low 50s. Mostly sunny and a little warmer tomorrow. High in the upper 70s. -AP 

Outside the gates of paradise 
War is at best barbarism ... Its glory is all moon­shine. It is only those who have neitherfired a shot nor heard the shrieks and groans ofthe wounded who cry 
aloud for blood, War is hell.  mvre vengeance,  more desolation.  
Attributed to a graduation addt·ess at the Michigan Militmy Academy (june 1, 1879)  

Notre Dame students are often accused of being is­olated from the world's realities and existing in a sort of mecca oftheir own. 
Consider South Bend's location; the Midwest long has had the reputation of being behind the rest of the country. There aren't any fast lanes in South Bend; things seem to happen here long after they have hap· pened in the rest of the country. More than one new­corner has found the conservative way oflife hard to adjust to. 
Notre Dame students are, by choice, even more "protected" from the outside. We live in dorms with regulated hours of visitation by the opposite sex, DETEXes to make sure unwanted people don't invade our privacy, maids to ' clean our rooms and empty our trash. One can hardly call this common or typical. 
There is nothing wrong with this. I don't mind the extra protection, but I do believe that all this security can make us a bit insensitive to the realities of the world. 
Violence is one thing most of have been spared fro~ in our lives. Most of us arc lucky enough to be able to live in neighborhoods where violent crimes are infre· 
quent. None of us, however, experience the day-to-day violence the citizens of many nations experience, and because of this, comprehending the violence which does occur in these nations is difficult. <n lliw.thr .. 
Time and distance are reasons it is difficult for Americans to feel the full impact of violence in the world. The last war fought on American soil was the Civil War which ended more than 118 years ago. More 
recent wars involving the United States-World Wars I and II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War-were all fought outside of the United States. The fighting that is happening in countries like Lebanon and Chile is too far 
away for us to feel its impact; Lebanon is on the other side of the world but it may as well be another galaxy. Not one of us has been alive to see a war fought in our own country. Think about this. 
~The_Ohs.eryer_ 
Composition Edito1· ................................ j.P. Layout Staff......................................... Maura 
Vic Sciulli 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Monday 


It's been almost a decade since the Vietnam War ended. Hardly a long time, but it's rather surprising how the horrible memories have been wiped out of the minds ofso many Americans. Most ofus were too young to feel the impact of the violence in Vietnam; we only remember the grim newscasts and the magazine covers with pictures ofdead or wounded children. 
Volatile situations throughout the world have precipitated U.S. intervention and there is a real fear that one ofthese disturbances could eventually drag the 
U.S. into another war. We can't pick up a newspaper these days without reading something about U.S. in­volvement in another country. Several Marines have been killed and more have been wounded in 
~:q. Beirut. And what is going on :::;..---in Chad? 
Central America has been a growing hot spot in the last five years and has appeared 
~ ready to explode like a pow­·;P) der keg many times. . ' W The American soldiers 
~ who have been fighting a strong battle against Sal­vadoran guerillas have not forgotten Vietnam. Geographically, El Salvador 
is much different than Vietnam, hut the lessons learned in the rice paddies ofNam apply here. "We're going to do it right this time," said a senior 
U.S. military leader in El Salvador. 

The thought that someone so high up is drawing an analogy like that scares the hell out ofme. Yet, President Reagan has repeatedly denied that there is a similarity between the two countries. 
What does this all mean and how do we fit in? There is nothing we can do individually, but the story shouldn't end here. But that doesn't mean we have nothing to think about, because we do. We can't take for granted the peace that we enjoy, peace that has been denied to others. 
Notre Dame students have always shown great awareness for social concern issues; we aren't always so sure about details, but we do have a sense of justice in the world that many people lack. Let us not become so secure within our little paradises that we forget what is happening outside ofthe gates. 
Armanao·s Barber & Hair Styje Shop 
1437 North Ironwood Drive Sputh Bend. IN

Typesetters ..................... Nick and Michelle News Editor ........................................... Tom Copy Editor............................................. Amy 
HOME OF TilE IRISH 

Sports Copy Editor ............................... Sully 
Four Styllsts to Serve You 

Editorials Layout................................ Keith 
Five minutes from cam us

Features Layout................................ Mary I ND Day Editor...................................... Sarph SMC Day Editor............................................. ? Ad Design ............................................ Mary 2 Photographer ....................... _. ............... Thorn Guest Appearances ....... An inSAIN phone 
Burn's Creative Costume Shop

call, two Romper Room Rejects, a truck load ofdead babies, a lost Cavanight .. 
608 Liberty Drive, Mishawaka 
259-4807 
Quote ofthe Day This was almost fun! 
Fulfill Your Wildest Fantasies 
VVith Our Costumes 

''I'm going for points on my Physics ex· 
am tomorrow" 
Birthday Cake Dancing Beer Cans Lepracauns 
Sequin Gowns Spiders Sequin Jackets Fly Bee 

The Obeerver (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacation penods. The ObMrver is published 
AND MANY MORE 

by the students of Notre Dame and 
Student Discounts Stop in to Reserve
Samt Mary·s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $25 per year 
No Deposit with Notre Dame or St. Mary's ID 

($15 per semester) by writing The Obeerver, P 0 Box Q, Notre 
HOU AS: 111 Mon.-Fri. 9:00am-5:00pm , 
Dame. Indiana 46556. 
Sat. 9:00am -12:00 noon 

The Obeerver is ·a member of The Aaaochlted Pre... All 
Extended Hours for Halloween 
reproduction rights are reserved. 



The Observer Monday, September 26, 1983-page 3 

Filipino demonstrators threatened by Marcos 
Associated Press tion," said his orders to the military were that demonstrations without 
MANilA, Philippines -President government permits "will be im­Ferdinand E. Marcos yesterday or­mediately dispersed" with the use of dered his riot troops to crush all un­non-deadly weapons, such as tear authorized demonstrations, and gas. warned protesting businessmen "But if the military and police are they had been videotaped and met with force, they will be com­would be tracked down and ar­pelled to use force," he said. Marcos rested. last week agreed to re-arm his riot 
He rejected a proposal by Car­troops and ordered them to use dinal Jaime L. Sin to share power these arms in self-defense. with an advisory council and Opposition leaders say permits accused priests and nuns ofteaching for their rallies are rarely granted. schoolchildren to hate him. But former Sen. Jose W. Diokno, a 
Sin, the archbishop of Manila and Marcos critic, said the opposition leader of the Philippine Catholic will go ahead with demonstrations church, denied the charge and even without permits. accused Marcos ofcasting "a terrible Eleven people, including four darkness" over the land and forcing policemen, were killed and about Filipinos to choose the path of 200 were injured in rioting near the "violent confrontation." presidential palace last week. Fifteen 
He said the president was using more were injured in three protest 
"threats and other acts of intimida­actions Friday. Filipino protesters demanding the resignation of tion" instead of eliminating the Demonstrators numbering PresidentFerdinandMarcos show theirsupportfor the cause of people's "unrest and disaf­thousands have called for the goals of Benigno Aquino, who was assassinated last fection." resignation of Marcos, accusing his 
Sin also rejected the charge that regime of complicity in the Aug. 21 priests and nuns were preaching assassination of opposition leader "hatred against Marcos and the Benigno Aquino. 
government," saying schoolchildren Marcos, in his TV appearance yes­were only being taught "the real terday, called the demonstrators situation ofthe country." "drug-addicts, drunkards, gangsters, 
Alumni group to offer career day 
By BARBARA STEVENS out the application and return it, seniors, five juniors, and two fresh­Marcos, in his "Report to the Na-communists and radicals:: 
News Staff along with a S10 fee, to the Alumni men representing as much of the office by Saturday, Oct. 1. campus" and country as possible, A career orientation day is being SARG will categorize the applica­serves as a liason between students 
Tavern owner agrees
offered for juniors and seniors on tions according to field interest and and alumni. Thursday, Nov. 10. send them to the Alumni Club in In­The idea of a career orientation Thirty-five Notre Dame juniors dianapolis, which will match 35 of day began when a SARG member 
to parking arrangement
and seniors will travel to In­the students with alumni. SARG will spoke to several alumni in her home dianapolis to spend a day with refund the S 1 0 fee to all students not area and discovered how helpful alumni in their fields ofcareer inter­chosen to participate. they were in investigating job op­By MARGARET FOSMOE Bauer's attorney asked for the delayest. The Student Alumni Relations The 35 successful applicants must portunities. 
Managing Editor because Bauer was hospitalized for Group (SARG) is sponsoring this attend one of two preliminary The Nov. 10 trip will be Notre treatment of hyperglycemia. He has career orientation day to give stu­meetings at which they will be Dame's first career orientation day. 
The owner of Bridget McGuire's since been released.
dents an inside look at exactly what briefed on who their alumni hosts If it is successful, SARG plans to run Filling Station has signed a parking Bridget's formerly had a similarpeople in their prospective fields do. will be, what they will do, and what another one this spring. This second agreement with Ben Schwartz, agreement with the operator of the
"We want to help give students a they should wear. orientation day will include more owner of the neighboring Pandora's bookstore, according to Bauer. Thatbetter sense ofdirection in choosing The orientation day Itself will con­students and offer trips to Chicago Books property. 
agreement was cancelled a few

careers and help them better take sist of a student-alumni lunch, visits and Detroit as well as Indianapolis. 
State Rep. B. Patrick Bauer, partial months ago when it was learned the
advantage of active alumni in the to the host's places of employment, The success of the first career day owner of Bridget's, hopes the agree­operator's lease with Saben was on aarea," said SARG ChairmanJohn Fis­and opportunities to question and trip depends largely on the students. 
ment will convince the city Board of monthly basis.
her. talk with the alumni hosts. The day "The students have to be enthusias­Zoning Appeals ( BZA) to allow
All juniors and seniors will will conclude with a dinner for all35 tic and well-prepared to get the "We contacted the owners after 
Bridget's controversial addition to
receive applications in the mail this students and their hosts. most out of this trip," stressed Fis­the city prematurely ordered a stop­
remain standing.
...,,.,.k. Interested students should fill SARG, which consists of five her. work on the addition and 
According to the agreement, prematurely ordered its destruc­patrons of the tavern will have tion," said Bauer. 
access to 13 parking spaces on the According to Bauer, the owner
Sino-American cooperation desired 
Pandora property, 937 South Bend was contacted by Harold Rowley,
Ave. Associated Press new policy allowing the Chinese to quet after his arrival from Tokyo. The lease agreement is on a owner of the neighboring Corby's import sophisticated technology He said he hoped his visit would monthly basis, according to Bauer, 
tavern, shortly after the addition PEKING -Defense Secretary will help them modernize their 4.2 "strengthen the defense component and holds the tavern operators controversy heated up in July. Caspar W. Weinberger said yester· million-member army. of our relationship and provide a responsible for cleanup and snow Rowley apparently offered to pur· day that China and the United States China has been seeking access to removal of the lot. The agreement is 
chase the bookstore property at that

basis for the further development of should revive their strategic U.S. technology described as dual­exchanges and cooperation be­valid through August 1985 at a cost time. dialogue and cooperate militarily to use -for military and non-military of $75 a month. "Last Monday he (the owner of
tween our two armed forces." safeguard world peace. projects. Weinberger is expected to Bauer says the agreement was the bookstore property) came into 
A Chinese-U.S. strategic dialogue
Weinberger did not mention the tell the Chinse exactly what types of si~ned with Ben Schwartz, of town and found he (Rowley) wasn't 
marked the early days of resumed
Soviet Union, but his remarks were technology they can now buy under Maumelle, Ark., "sometime last interested," said Bauer. 
diplomatic relations in January
considered a clear call for resurrec­the new guidelines. week," prior to the Thursday after-The agreement refers to a possible
1979. But the discussions later
tion ofa U.S.-China dialogue to coun­"Close U.S.-China relations and noon meeting of the BZA. Schwartz sale of the property and gives Saben 
lapsed, mainly because ofChina's an­
ter what Washington and Peking cooperation in the strategic area is a partner in Saben, Inc., owner of the right to cancel the agreement if both call Soviet expansionism. serve both our national interests and ger over U.S. support for the Chinese the bookstore property. the bookstore property is sold. In his first visit to the China, Wein­also the interest of world peace and Nationalist regime on Taiwan. At last week's BZA meeting, a Bauer also has the right to cancel the berger also said President Reagan's stability," Weinberger said at a ban-Peking considers the island a decision regarding the fate ofthe ad-agreement if the tavern is not 
renegade province. dition was postponed until Oct. 27. allowed to maintain the addition. 
·----------------~ . .
1 , 1 War Powers Act compromise fails 

1 °~u!~~J?oo8m~~~ 11 !itJ~~ieve te12~!2J:l§j;Qw~~~hh~!Jgton
18

R1 OTmatlOR UTeaU which underlies the current con-When Reagan sent Marines to takeI I WASHINGTON The war trovesy, saying it "attempts to take part in a peacekeeping force inI I powers compromise that moves away authorities which the presi-Lebanon last year, he said he was ac­
9pens .Mo?day, 9/2~ 11 AM-4 P.M onto the floor of the House and dent has p~op~rly exer~ised under ting consistently with the War1.Call US With questiOnS about I Senate this week may answer some the Constltutwn for almost 200 ~owers ~ct. But he made no men­
~_. 1 of the questions hanging over the years." tlon ofa timetable, even though con­1 campUS life at 239-0BUD. u.s. Marines in Lebanon, but it is The act, passed by Congress over gressional leaders in both parties ·~--f • t t d • h ) • t t I unlikely to ease the tension between Nixon's veto in the waning days of urged him to do so. 
~!1 In ereS e ID e ping COn ac Congress and the administration the Vietnam War, requires the presi-When Congress reassembled this1 Andy or He at 239-7799. I over their powers to send troops jn-dent to notify Congress within 48 mo~th aft~r a five-week re~ess 
to battle zones. hours whenever he sends troops dunng wh1ch four of the MannesI I When Secretary of State George equipped for combat abroad. Ifthey had been killed and more than twoI I Shultz testified before congressional are in a zone of hostilities he is re-dozen wounded, the lawmakers 
committees last week, he made it quired to bring them home in 60 stepped up their demands for moreI I clear repeatedly that President days unless Congress authorizes a ofa say about what was going on. I I Reagan, in his words, "has no inten-further stay or he decides an addi-Sen. Charles Mathias, R-Md., in­
tion of turning over to Congress his ~ional 30 days is needed to get them troduced a resolution that declared · ,. constitutional authority as comman-JUt safely. the war powers clock had begun to
1 I 
der in chief." Neither Nixon nor any of his sue-run when the first Marines were 
Neither, for that matter, have cessors -Gerald Ford, Jimmy Car-killed Aug. 29, but the res<:>lution other chief executives. President ter and Reagan ever proposed extending the authorityL ----I Richard Nixon, for instance, acknowledged that Congress has for their presence in Beirut,· · 
I I 
Monday, September 26, 1983 -page 4 
The Observer 

AP Photo 
Hearse rehearsal 
Tbree lf.S . .-lrmy enlisted men pmclice burialprocedures at Hanau, 
West (,'ennany. Tbis was tbefirst time tbe army bas included mass 
L'asualty traininR durinR manuevers. 


Conference to explore secular role in society 
Special to the Ohserver 
Sixty Catholic lay people from diver't' proli:~~ional. geographical and cultural backgrounds will rnet·t October 25-.lS at Notre Damt:'s Cen· ter ti1r Continuing Education to ex­plore with a <:ommittc:c of American Catholic bishops tht• role of the <:atholic lay pt·rson in contem· porary Amcric;tn society. 
"Work and Faith in Society: Cath­olic Perspectives" is the title of the conference, sponsored hy the Na· tiona! Conference of Catholic Bis· hops' Committee on the Laity in cooperation with Notre Dame's In­stitute for Pastoral and Social Minis­try. 
One purpose of the conference, which has heen planned for two y(·ars, is "to highlight the Christian value of secular lik: in the profes­sions, in t;arnilie~. in areas ofcivic and social concern, in leisure pursuits. We :also hope to gain a clearer un· der~t:anding of the kind of Church ministry which will hest empower the lay per~on to he a transformin~ pre.~ence in Ihe world," s:lid Bi.~hop 
James llollman of Toledo, chairman 
of the Bishops' Committec on the 
l.aity. 
Six .~pcakers, cho~en from amon~ tht• participants, will give major presentations. They are Kenneth Woodward, senior writer for Newsu•eek ma~azine; Sally Cunneen, 
• • .Belfast 
continuedfrom page I 
out Northern Ireland were called out in one of the biggest manhunts ever launched in the province. 
All border crossin~o:s were hein~ watched ;md police set up roadblocks in mainly Roman Cath· olic West Belfast, where it was thou~ht the men mi~ht seek refu~e in staunchly nationalist ghettos. 
It was the lar~est single jail escape in mainland Britain or Northern Ireland, and was expected ro result in a major political row over security procedures that apparently allowed weapons and ammunition to smu).(~led into the jail. 
The IRA has m;Jsterminded several prison escapes in Northern Ireland, the last being in June 1981 when ei~ht ~uerrillas hurst out of the Crumlin Road jail in Belfast. 

Alaska Republican defends Watt 
Associated Press that without heavy lohhying froin unfair," Fahrenkopf said. He said 
the White House the vote would he Watt is not bigoted and has been 
WASHINGTON -A top Senate "very decisive" against Watt. Pack­honored in the past by jewish and Republican, saying james Watt is a wood is one of eight GOP senators handicapped groups for his policies "God-fearing man," not a bigot, who have called on Watt to resign. in the Interior Department. promised yesterday to block a Three others -Robert Dole and 
Viguerie said conservatives areSenate resolution urging his resigna­Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas and watching Reagan to see whether "hetion. But another GOP senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico­keeps one of the few conservativespredicted Watt will not last another have stopped just short ofcalling for left in the administration."

week as Secretary ofthe Interior. Watt's resignation. 
Assistant Majority Leader Ted The resolution would have no He said Watt's comment was "not 
Stevens, R-Aiaska, said Watt made a legal impact on Watt, hut would made in malice hut at the frustration 
mistake last week in referring to five prove embarrassing to the ad­of bureaucrats who force quotas on 
advisers as "a black, a woman, two ministration if it showed large-scale the American people." 
jews and a cripple." But he said Watt Republican opposition to a member 
The comment drawing fire was

shouldn't be driven from office for ofthe President's Cabinet. 
made hy Watt during a speech Wed­the blunder. Packwood predicted that Watt nesday to the U.S. Chamber of Com­

"He's not a bigot. Jim Watt is a would not last the week, but he later 
God-fearing man who is really quite told reporters that Watt may hang merce, where he described a a Christian gentleman," Stevens told on a little longer "so that it appears commission he has appointed to reporters after an appearance on he goes out with grace rather than review his coal-leasing program as CBS-TV's "Face the Nation," where under pressure." having "every kind of mix you can he defended Watt. President Reagan, who has ac­have. I have a black, I have a woman, 
The Senate is scheduled to take up cepted a written apology from Watt, twojews and a cripple. And we have debate Wednesday ofa Democratic­remained mum yesterday on talent." sponsored resolution calling for whether he would keep him on. Watt's resignation for conduct Packwood called Watt a liability 
"totally unhefitting a senior Cabinet to the White House and the GOP. 
member." But Watt was defended on the 
Stevens said the resolution will telecast by Republican National not come to a vote "as far as I am Committee Chairman Frank ). Fah­concerned." He told reporters he renkopf and Richard Viguerie, a 
would try to prevent the Senate leader of the New Right and key from voting on the resolution, hut Republican fundraiser. he did not elaborate. "What jim Watt did is inex­
Sen. Robert Packwood, R-Oregon, cusable, hut to say 'that the error said party leaders were concerned applies against President Re:1gan is 
assistant professor ofEnglish at State Father james Bacik, theologian, singer, and puppeteer; Rebecca University of New York and as­author, and campus minister in the Flores Harrington, director of the sociate editor of Cross Currents; diocese ofToledo. 
l{alph Graham Neas, executive United Farmworkers Union in Aus­Other conference participants in­
tin, Texas; Representative Marcy clude Richard "Digger" Phelps, head director of the Leadership Con­
fc:rence on Civil Ri~hts; Doris Don­basketball coach at Notre Dame; Kaptur, Democrat of Ohio; Anthonynelly, associate professor of Downs, senior fellow at the Brook­theolo~y at St. John's University and 

Paul Conrad, editorial cartoonist for president of the Ecumencial In­the Los Angeles Times; jim Douglas, ings Instituron; and Admiral William stitute of Spirituality; F:1ther john 
Walsh, director of the surface Coleman, associate professor of peace activist and co-founder of the religion and society at the Jesuit Ground Zero Center for Nonviolent warfare division in the Office of the School ofTheology in Berkeley; and Action; Karen Lee Hodgson, actress, Chiefof Naval Operations. 

* Seniors * 
Applications for Senior Formal Committees may be picked up Monday, September 26 Through Wednesday, September 27 at LaFortune or SMC Student Activities 


Due 5:00PM Monday, October 3 
Interested in 
Chicago Tribune 
or 
USA Today 


Dorm Delivery? 

The CoDege ofScience 
is seeking a Student Representative to the Academic Council. Interested Students should submit a short letter of application to the Dean's office, 229 Niewland, by Wednesday, Sept. 28. Open to all Collegfe of Science students. For more info contact 


: Still Time To : : Join the Ballroom : : Dance Class : 
:Time· Wednesday, : : September 28, 6:30-8:00 PM : :Place· Regina Hall Basement •
• 

: Lounge on Saint Mary's •
•

• Campus 
• • Teacher-Ray Sexton from •
•

: Indianapolis :Cost · $20 for four weeks •• • 
: THIS OFFER IS LIMITED •
•

• TO NOTRE DAME AND • : SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS ONLY. : 

Call Bill at 283-3314 
Monday, September 26, 1983 -page 5 

Vieweoint 
George McGovern answers the call for the presidency? 
Finallv the Democrats have a true liberal­Left l'a~didate for the presidency. George Mc<;ovcrn, answering the call of an invisible constituency, has for the third time declared hh readiness to accept the supreme power in America. Now we can all breathe more easily, knowing God's in his Hc;1ven and the Republic is safe. 
Max Lerntr 
The Max Lerner Column 

Con~ider the goodies the ex-senator and (in 19'2) ex-Democratic presidential nominee offers us. As president he would increa:-;e federal social spending and hence taxes. too, cancel the MX and B-1, reverse Ronald Reagan's defense build-up, clear out of El Sal­vador, smile benignly on Nicaragua, envelop Fidel Castro in a diplomatic embrace, and make a "significant cut" in aid to Israel ifit fails to meet his requirements for "negotiation in good faith" with its Arab enemies. 
Another goodie is .a turnabout in policies toward the Soviet Union and its global expan­sionism. Judging from his postttons, McGovern would be an easy mark for the Soviets in the Geneva arms talks. He would no longer interfere in the revolutionary currents ofsmaller nations, which is an interesting way of phrasing an isolationist inaction toward Soviet global designs. There isn't an unhack­neyed idea nor a workable one in the whole melange. 
As for the Korean plane shootdown, "it only under-scores the folly ofthe present cold war tensions." How this is distinguished from the present Soviet position toward their mur­derous act and toward the American protests he doesn't say. 
Perhaps I take George McGovern's 
pronouncements more seriously than they 
deserve. Shift 55 years hack to 1948, shift from 
South Dakota to Iowa, from George 
Mc<;overn to Henry Wallace, from Nicaragua 
and El Salvador to Yugoslavia ;md Eastern 
Europe, and you get one of tho~c ~tartling 
parallels that makes the course of history 
seem to run in circles. 
I recall attending the 1948 convention of 
Wallace's Progressive Party with H.L. 
Mencken. We listened to the Resolutions 
Committee report and to Wallace's responses 
to questions about the Soviets. Mencken was 
delighted with the entire performance · its 
ultra-liberal civic virtue, jts political in­
nocence and extravagance together, it~ ig­
norance of the realities of political Iite. I think 
of poor, sincere, deluded Henry Wallace 
when I try to make some sen~e of George 
McGovern. 
L:nlike Wallace, who thought he could win, 
McGovern agrees that he is a "long-shot" can­
didate. But I read his confident declaration ­
"I am ready now as at no previous time in my 
life to lead this nation toward justice, honor 
and peace" -and I think of Harold Stassen's 
unexpungeahle belief in the nation's need of 
his leadership, and I can't help asking what has 
happened to the "observing ego" that keeps 
most men who at some point have had a brush 
with the White House from making infernal 
fools ofthemselves. 
Now there are seven presidential can­
didates. We may be grateful that McGovern, as 
the seventh, has offered a guideline ofsorts for 
judging the positions of the other six, on 
spending and taxes, on defense, on Israel and 
the Arabs, on Castro, on the Russians. 
McGovern has gone well beyond Walter 
Mondalc, Alan Cranston and Gary Hart. He has 
blurted out the political credo that the liberal 
Left of the Dcmcratic Party believes. It isn't 
credible. It is a Never-Never Land of political 
fantasy. But it is there, and the pathos of 
McGovern's unending quest for the prize that 
has eluded him shouldn't blind us to that fact. 
Copyright 1983, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 


,,'lfi>,~~..........,.dlt"' 
'MC~RN ~ Fl\ESIDfNT1 SfCf111E WAR1 BRING 1!iE "Jli?C(P.51-b\\E!GivE *RVW!' A11m W.OOSN-JD IUKS"' WATJiJAYASAY?... ' 
P.O. Box Q 
Japan program 
Dear Editor: 

As a member ofthe Asian Committee, I have always supported the introduction ofChinese studies at the University -it would be a definite plus for ourJapanese majors program. So I recommend by all means the general point that Francis James made in his recent column (Why Notre Dame should offer Chinese, Sept. 22). 
But I greatly regret his characterization of theJapan program: "For years it was languish­ing with very few students, but suddenly blossomed into a full scale language program ..." For your guest columnist's in­formation, the program started with 1.3 stu­dents who went to Tokyo in 1967. The next year the number soared to 24 and since then it has numbered between 8 and 15. In 1968, Japanese classes were begun with 16 students in First Year Japanese. Since that time, it has developed into a four year program. When a second teacher was brought into theJapanese section in 1975, we were able to develop majors program. 
Many students with no intention of par­ticipating in the Year-in-japan Program have enrolled in these classes -and this. long before Toyotas and Datsuns began to invade the land. Five of our ~tudents have won the Ministry of Education Scholarship Award to study at Japanese Universities. Furthermore, aside from the three major languages in our department,Japanese has had the largest num­ber of majors. The thrust of our classes is to teach the language, literature, and culture of Japan -we make no attempt to touch upon things like Theory Z. TheJapan Club has been 
functioning since 1976 not only with mem­bers of the Japanese classes, hut also with other students from Japan or interested in Japan. It has always had many members. All this would hardly give any hint of "languishing." 
I know Mr. James did not intend to slur our progr;tm, but as part of the it, I feel compelled to reply on hehalfofits teachers and students. 
Actually, all this has been a blessing in dis­guise: It has given us the splendid opportunity to inform your readers about our program. llnhelievablv, frcshmt·n still come to us at the end of the ~emester totally unaware of the 
program. 
I 
Georf!.e Minamiki, Sj. 

Campus comments If you were an RA, would you report an overnight stay? 

Yes, I would turn someone in. If I decided to take the responsibilities of being an RA I would go through with the commitment. Rules would never be followed if they were not enforced. 
Karen Hagnell 
Biology 
Class of '87 
No, I wouldn't. Although I under­stand the need to have restrictions, I would just give a warning. The penalties are too severe. 
Hubie McGinley Program of Liberal Studies Class of '85 
Yes. You have an obligation to turn them in. But I don't want that kind of responsibility. 
Kelly Fitzpatrick Nursing Class of'84 

It depends on how much money they would be willing to offer me. 
Linda Douglas 
Economics 
Class of '85 
I would have to say no. Even though rules arc very important, I think every person deserves a second chance. If I caught someone twice, I'd seriously consider turning them in. 
Frank Zacherl "Finance Class of'87 
• 
Department Managers 
=======Ihe Qbset:ver====== !~!!~:~~e~-~~~~ .......... David Dziedzic 
Hox Q. Noffe name, IN '16556 (.! 19) 239-5303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
The Ohserr•er is the independent new~paper published bv the s!Udent~ of the Uni­Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas ver~ity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·~ College. It does not neces~arily reflect News Editor . ................ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen the polictes of the admini~tration of either insti!,~t~<~~-_,Th~ ~e.'"'·~ i~ reported as ac­News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzauuc i..a Croix 
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned cdttonaf~ represent the opmon of a Saint Mary's Editor . .......... Anne Monastyrski Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miolto majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentarie~.leHer~. and the Inside Column present Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamiltog System Manager ............... Kevin Williams the vkws of their authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community. Photo Editor .................... Scott Bower and the free expression ofnryingopinions on campu~. through letters. is encouraged. .\jJOrts Editor ....... .\1 ichael Sullivan 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Showcase 
Monday, September 26, 1983-page 6 
Chatauqua' s masterpieces 
donations oftime and talent to the
by Doug Murphy 
University. "Tim agreed to do the murals even without a guarantee
features staff writer 

T
that they would remain, as a result of our renovations." he familiar faces of the Heatles, 
.Jimi llendrix,JanisJoplin, and Currently, as proposals are being Jim Morrison loom large on the developed to transform Chautauqua walls ofChautauqua on the second into an undergraduate club, with a floor of l.al:'ortune. Starkly rendered portable har and booths, the pos­in black and white, these impo~ing sibility exists that the murals will be icon~ manage to dominate the room painted over. McDonnell forsees the while evoking the romance com­eventual development ofa commit­monly associated with the 60s and tee ofstudents, perhaps working out the rock stars of that era. ofstudent government, to provide 
some imput on the future of 

Tim Murphy, the artist and an 'H 1 Chautauqua and its murals, as plans Notre Dame graduate, finished the are finally agreed upon. murals only last year after having 
started them two years ago. For now, however, the portraits Sometime in 19H I when the ball­will remain, staring down at the dan­room was undergoing one ofits peri­cers and moviegoers ofChautauqua. 
odic identity crises, Murphy People's responses to the murals approached the manager of have been mixed and of both ex­Chautauqua with a proposal to tremes; it is a love or hate thing. heighten the room's musical atmos­Whatever their fate, the murals are phere with a series of wall murals. the special gifts ofa very talented
Janis Joplin 

IIi~ idea wa~ approved and Murphy· alumnus. Whether they remain or was soon working diligently, donat­not, they certainly merit the ap­ing time, taknt, and materials to the Dr. James McDonnell, Director of preciation and gratitude ofthe stu­project. By the time commt·nce­Student Activities, spoke of the dent body ofNotre Dame. ment rolled around, Tim had com­murals within the context ofthe his­
pktt·d fully tht· portrait of Morrison tory ofChautauqua itself. The old and partially tht· one of llendrix. ballroom, as Chautauqua was originally cnvisioned, was to have The remaindn of the project. been a center for musical entertain­
which included a portrait of]anis mt·nt on campus. Live acts, lectures, Joplin, two Beat It's murals, along poetry rcadings, and workshops with the unfinished Morrison 
were to have rounded out its ac­

portrait, remained unfinished until tivities. In the context ofdecorating last yt·ar. While the rest ofu~ wcre the room for such a varied theme. enduring finals, Murphy took a vac<~­Dr. McDonnell and Fr. John Van tion from his job on the East Coast, Wolvlear, Director ofStudent Af­
travelled to South Bend and com­fairs, decided to solicit student sug­pleted the project, surrounded by gestions. Murphy's idea for the 
Two students study diligently under the enigmatic gaze of Jimi workmen who were then complet­murals was one of those accepted. Hendrix-
Jim Morrison 

in~ the renovation of Lafortune. Dr. McDonnell has nothing but Dave Drouillard, director ofthe praise for Murphy's actions and his Student llnion, commented that Murphy decided to do the entire project on his own, as his contribu­

The perils of organization
tion to the University. "I rememhcr coming up here durin~ exams last year, and Tim would he working all the laundry.
the time on the murals," said Drouil­
by Chris Fraser 
lard. Organized people have halancced features staff writer checkbooks. Disorganization means you wash 
B
eing organized is one ofthose ourselves on knowing where every the dishes later, borrow pens duringthings in life that's perpetually last gum wrapper is on our hopeless­tests, and keep old phone numbers overrated. Uke drinking in the ly cluttered desks. And we don't on crumpled paper in your wallet. 
mornin~ and singing in the rain, the need to write down all ofour ap­true value ofpersonal organization pointments because we're sm;~rt 
Organization means you always have an umhrella when it rains never quite matches its lofty repuu­enough to remember anything we'd 
tion. really want to go to. Organization doesn't sound so Everyone thinks they want to he Take that you organized wimps. 
had? Don't jump to conclusions until organized and yet no one likes the "Order is Heaven's first law" said 
you consider a few more marks of superficially organized person. Per­Alexander Pope, succinctly stating the genre. hap~ this is because his hair is always the theological case for the or­
Does anybody really know whatin place and his clothes are never ganized person. But what about time it is? Well organized people dowrinkled. Why do organized people earth's law? And who exactly was and they give it to you in digital have to be so neat? These are the sort this Alexander Pope character terms. You know, they say 5:32 in­ofpeople who write down every­anyway? An eighteenth century stead of 5:30 and 8:46 instead ofthing in those nifty little assignment philosophical poet? Definitely quarter to 9. Only astronauts and

and appointment books. Now we all overrated. 
bosses really care about the timehave hought these at one time or an­Organization, like consistency, is that much. Or how about this: atother and with the best ofinten­the refuge ofthe mediocre. Unfor­some point in time, everyone plans
tions. But these little moneymakers tunately, disorganiz;~tion suggests to awake before the rest ofciviliza­
for station;~ry companies are meant undesirable clutter and tardiness. 
tion and get lots ofimportant busi­to he lost in the shuffle ofour desks Indeed that is an unfair conotation ness done at 6:00 or 7:00AM.
or buried in the hottom ofour nap­for such a prevalent condition. 
Organized people actually followsacks. We're not supposed to write However, looked at more closely, through. I mean they really get upeverything down. That's what disorganization implies activity, when their alarm clocks go off andsecretaries are for. spontaneity, even importance. Kind everything. Really.
Organized people, however, have oflike you have better things to do their whole semester, ifnot their than carefully hang your coat in the For some closing words ofwis­whole life, planned out. They write closet when the chair is right there. dom on the subject, let's hear from down when their next test is, what Or why should you dig out the per­M;~rk Twain. I have this great quote time bedtime is, and even when they sonalized stationary you got last from him somewhere (writer will go to the bathroom. Christmas to write a letter when shuffles through a diffuse assortment 
Personally, I don't want to know there are piles ofpaper in your ofpaperson his somewhat scattered when my next test is. And I like to go handy notebooks. desk)...ah yes, here it is. "Have a to bed when I'm tired even ifthat The books ofyour average place for everything" said Twain, means I won't get precisely eight (disorgnized) person are worn and "and keep it somewhere else. This is hours. The same logic applies to my rabbit-eared and never shelved not advice, it is merely custom." bowel movements. according to size or subject. Disor­
Chris Fraser is a senior arts and
Anyway, most ofus like to think of ganized people write notes on nap­ourselves as having a kind ofinner kins, keep stuff under their bed, and 
letters student from Milltown, New organization. For instance, we oride never have enough quarters to do Jersey. 
The Beatles 


Sports Briefs 
Tryouts for women's basketball will be held on today in the ACC Pit at 7 p.m. For more information, call 239·5420. -The Obseroer 
All interested in officiating either women's flag football or soccer, please stop by the Non-Varsity Athletics office or call at 239-6100. -The Observer 
Rich Hunter, Notre Dame soccer coach, will be the featured guest on Speaking of Sports tomorrow night at 10 p.m. on WSND-AM 64. If you have any questions or comments, call 239­6400. -The Obseroer 
Ameeting for the Windsurfing Clubwill 
be held this Friday at 4 p.m. in 445 S t tanford. Members should bringa proofofinsurance. Those interested in learning should be prepared to make reservations. Anyone who is interested in joining the club is welcome to attend. -The Obseroer 
The men's volleyball club will hold an or­
ganizational meeting for all those interested in playing at 8 p.m., Monday, October 26, in the LaFortune Little Theater. Ifyou have any questions, call I052. -The Obseroer 
Monday, September 26, 1983 -page 7 
The women's cross country teamcame in fourth place in the Spring Arbor Invitational this weekend in Spring Arbor, Mich. The team's next meet will be on Saturday at 10 am. on the Burke GolfCourse. -The Obseroer 
The embattled defenders of the America's Cup decided yesterday to make no further changes on the already lightened Liberty for today's deciding race against speedier Australia 
II. The Australians, pleased there would be no alterations in the U.S. yacht's weight and sail configuration beyond those made Friday, said they would reconsider their vow to protest the final race from the start. WarrenJones, executive director of the Aussie syndicate, said that decision would be made this morning. But just as the winds of controversy appeared to the dying, so did the V'rinds on Rhode Island, Sound, raising the possibility that the closest series in Cup history will not be finished until Tuesday or later. Johan Valentijn, Liberty's designer, said the Americans decided to forgo more ballast changes after receiving the latest weather report, calling for eight-knot sout­heasterly winds for today's scheduled 12:10 p.m. EDT start. And Jones added, "We'll be lucky to get a race." The forecast was for winds to shift to the south-southwe~t and build to 10-12 knots by 3 
p.m. but then die to 5-7 knots by 5 p.m. "We're quite concerned about the winds being real shifty and light and not being able to get a race in," said Mike Neilsen, meteorogolist with the Newport Weather Center, a private forecasting service used by both Liberty and Australia II. "If they start at 2, we may never see a finish." And "not much difference" is expected tomorrow, he said. -AP 
Orioles clinch ALEast 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -The Bal· timore Orioles, behind the combined six-hit pitching of Storm Davis and Tippy Martinez and home runs by Jim Dwyer and Joe Nolan, clinched the American League East title yesterday with a 5-l victory over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
The Orioles began the day needing either one victory or a loss by second-place Detroit to clinch the division. Detroit beat Boston 3-2 yesterday. 
Baltimore, which last won the division in 1979, will face the AL West champion Chicago White Sox for the league championship. The best-of-five series starts Oct. 5 in Bal­timore. Chicago is making its first­ever appearance in the AL championship series. 
Davis, 13-6, gave up one run on 
three hits over six innings before 
being relieved by Martinez, who 
earned his 19th save. 
The Observer LaFortune ofice accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:00 
p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3 p.m. All classified 
· ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. Charge is ten cents per
Classifieds seven characters, per day. 
NOTICES 
Typing, ALL KINDS. 277-8534 after 5·30 M-F. All day wknds. 
TYPING AVAILABLE -287-4082. 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! CALL (312) 742-1142, EXT. 7316. 
ACCENT Your Understanding 
PIANO OR FRENCH HORN LESSONS? UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MUSIC GRADUATE, TWO YEARS TEACHING EXPERIENCE WITH AGES 6 TO 50. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 287­0757. 
Come see the Irish Cros&-eountry team race Northwestern Saturday at noon on 
the Golf Course. 
Any Notre Dame or St. Mary's students who were involved with Junior Achieve­ment in High School and would like to join the NO-SMC JA Alumni Association in Michiana. call Vaughn at 283-1959. 
LOGAN CENTER WELCOME BACK DANCE TONIGHT 7PM AT LOGAN RIDES FOR ND 640 MAIN CIRCLE; FOR SMC 6·45 HOLY CROSS VOLUN­TEER PIZZA PARTY FOLLOWING DANCE. GUARANTEED ENJOYMENT FOR ALL. 
Freshmen: Interested in Mexico? In­formational meeting for Foreign Study Program in Mexico C~y-Tues.. Sept. 27 7·30 pm at Ce_nter for Social Concerns. 
HEY O.C.STUDENTS,need a beautiful, lovable, grey, free kitten? IF yes caii-234­9580(Tom) 
LOST/FOUND 
F·a·uN·o~··rA·N ..N.YL6N..CliP~ON:··cA·se 
W/2 PIPES & AN EMPTY 35mm FILM BOX IN PARKING LOST ACROSS FROM LIBRARY. PICK UP AT LOST & FOUND IN LIBRARY. 
FOUND· BOOK BACKPACK, CALL 1071 EVENINGS AND IDENTIFY. 
found--set of keys on a gold ND keychain in 1 03 business administration at 1·oo Mon. call Beth at 794 7 
REWRITE LOST· THOMAS HOBBE'S LEVIATHAN & RICHARD TAYLOR'S METAPHYSICS. PROBABLY IN O'SHAG. CALL THERESE AT 8050 
LOST· Zeiss Icon camera, In a brown casing. Very used and old looking Has great sentimental value. Call Mimi (616) 699-7272 
LOST· Keys on a Wimbledon key ring in the NAZZ or near LaFortune on Saturday night. Please call Karen at 6293 ~found. 
LOST-BLACK CANON SNAPPY 20 CAMERA AT GREEN FIELD ON SAT., SEPT.17. REWARD. CALL CYNTHIA AT 234-9456. 
FOUND· BEADED GOLD NECKLACE, 9/20 ON SOUTH QUAD. CALL 8584. 
Lu::. 1 : GOLF UMBRELLA, BLACK & RED WITH RED HANDLE. WAS IN BLACK COVER WHICB SAID IN WHITE LETTERS "ABERGLASS SHAFT". CALL ANDY 1579. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSE CLOSE TO ND 2773604 
FOR SALE 
Couch. chair. T.V., for sale, CHEAP! 272­3605. 
Yard sale, 813 Ashland Ave., Sept. 24 and 25. Furn~ure,clothing, home goods. Everything must go. 
GUITAR 12-string acoustic. $175-Gary 232-0550. 
FOR SALE· G. E. 14" COLOR T.V., MAR­TIN 0-18 GUITAR WITH CASE, ETRRR STEREO SPEAKERS. ZENITH BINOCULARS, 2 PAIR SNOWSHOES, STEREO HEADPHONES. CALL DAVE AT 272-0387. 
Desperately need Penn State game tick­ets. Call Brian at 8795. 
0 STATE GAME. CALL SCOTT AT 1219. 
NEED 2 USC GAS CALL BRIAN 6981 
HELP! NEED USC TIX STUDENT OR 
G.A. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277-4309 
NEED USC TIX. PLEASE CALL 8584. 
NEED 2 G.A. TICKETS FOR EITHER 
U.S.C. OR PITT GAME CALL LAURA 284-4367 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2845084 
Need 10 G.A.'s to the U.S. C. game. Will pay any amountfor tickets. They need not be together. Please call Dan at 1779. 
WANTED· TWO OR FOUR TICKETS FOR USC. CALL CHRIS 8739 
Willing to trade 5 (FIVE) PITT tickets for ONLY 4 (FOUR) USC tickets. Call NO. 1723 Ask for Kev. 
USC-NO tix wanted. Paying most. (312) 246-4650. 
NEED 3 USC TICKETS PLEASE CALL RICARDO 277-0583 
MUST HAVE USC TIX--MONE:Y NO OBJECT--NEED UP TO SIX GAS. CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME. 
NE'Eo..usc··G·;;.:;;··N·aw::c;·;;.i:i:..ci-i.Fiis 
AT234-7279 
································································ 
NEED USC TIX FOR A GOOD CAUSE. CALL TOM AT 1748. 
Rich '83 NO grad needs 2 USC tickets-­student or GA. If you can help, call Dave at1615. 
I HAVE 4 PITT TICKETS, AND I NEED USC GA'S. WILLING TO TRADE TICK· ETS OR PAY MONEY FOR USC GA'S. CALL JERRY AFTER 6 AT x1763. 
HELP 
A RICH friend is in desperate need oftwo PITTSBURGH GA's. Please help an old friend out of a jam by calling Sari at 277­1326. You will be richly rewarded. 
NEED 4 or 5 GAS FOR ANY GAME COULD MEAN EMPLOYMENT. CALL STEVE AT232-0550. 
NAVY GA's NEED 2-5 call ED 1 06li 
NEED USC GA AND STUD TIX CALL JOHN 1852 
AM WILLING TO TRADE FOR 2 USC GA'S. I AM ALSO LOOKING FOR 1 MORE USC GA. IF INTERESTED CALL BRIANAT1165 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR USC AND/OR PITT OR AIR FORCE. CALLJIMAT1501 
Need 4 GA tickets for USC Game. Please call OD at 2n-5214. 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR USC GA'SI CALL 277-1326. 
$$ NEED MANY USC TIX $$ CALL SUE 284-5173 
NEED 4 NAVY GA's. CALL STEVE AT 8079. 
NEED 4 TICKETS FOR NAVY.CALL TOMAT1201 
WANTED 
VOLLEYBALL Good sette'r wishes to be added to a competitive intramural V-ball team. Call Steve at 2_77-8785. 
Need three seniors to do in-home solar sales. Any sales experience helpful. One or two appts. per evening, 5 days week or less, possibly Sat. or Sun. Very possible to earn in excess of $700 per week wrth just two sales. Call Rick at 232-1 BOO. 
Needed· Rehearsal Accompanist for FID­
DLER ON THE ROOF. Contact Lmda 
Carvalho at 284-5311 or Mary Stevens at 239-7757. 
NEED RIDE TO MUNCIE,IN ON SEPT.23 WILL SHARE USUAL CALL X1474 ASK FOR GARY 
Need ride to northern Ohio near Turnp1ke Exrt 7 on Sept. 30. No return trip needed. Call AI at 3889. 
NEED RIDE TO MIAMI AREA FOR OCT. BREAK. ANYTIME AFTER 10/20.1 GOT­TA GET HOME! PLEASE CALL LOUIE AT 234-8482 ASAP. 
HEY BUCKY WHY DON'T YOU LEARN HOW TO RIDE IN A JEEP? SEE WHAT TO MUCH ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION GETS YOU. IF THEY HAVE TO AM­PUTATE, MAYBE THEY SHOULD DO IT FROM THE NECK DOWN. WELL AT LEAST NOW, KATE WILL BE ABLE TO CATCH YOU. YOUR FACE IS FUNNY AS A CRUTCH. GET IT? HA HA HA HA. 

riders needed, U of !(Champaign) Leave 9/23 Return 9/25 Call Mike 277-4463 af­ter? 
VOLLEYBALL Good setter wishes to be added to a competitive intramural V-ball team. Call Steve at 277-8785. 
WE ARE STILL LOOKING FOR THAT DRUMMER OF INTELLIGENCE AND RHYTHM WHO CAN TRANSFORM A BAND WHICH WILL SOON BE UP­AN[).COMING. IT IS PROBABLY NOT YOU. IF IT IS, CALL ROB AT 233-4210 OR DAVE AT 2n-1326 FOR GREATER DEATIL NEU OANSE MUSIK PREFERENCES PREFERRED. NO AC· DC FIENDS. SOBEIT. 
I need 6 GA to any home game. call Dan at234-6496 
N~·t·t;;;;·~~~i~;~·t~··;;·;~~h~~--~dfa~ 
sales. Any sales experience helpful. One or two appts. per evening, 5 days week or less, possibly Sat. or Sun. Very possible to earn in excess of $700 per week w~h just two sales. Call Rick at 232-1800. 
PERSONALS 
ROMPER ROOM LIVES!!! 

Any type of FILM for only $.50. Call1312 for more information. 
NE'Eo'2..3.oFi'4'-fic't<ET's.Fofi.usc.ofi 
PITT GAME. I AM DESPERATE AND WILLING TO PAY. WE'RE TALKING BIG BUCKS! CALL MOAT 1311. 
ACCENT Your Interests 

Desperate isn't the word, I NEED, really NEED a ticket to the PITT game. I'm not particular, I'll take a student or GA: Please, call1311 and offer to sell me your ticket. Will pay big bucks. 
ACCENT YOUR LIFE 

.........................:...................................... 
GERRY FAUST -~·s beginning to look a lot like Christmas! Signed, Terry Brennan 
NEED RIDERS TO SAINT LOUIS LEAVING 29TH. CALL LAUREN 277­4428 
NO FRAT BOYS FOR VISOR CHICK NO FRAT BOYS FOR VISOR CHICK Voot­siek Stella Vootsiek 
GOd made Notre Dame Number 1. 

Gerry Faust took them out of the Top Twenty. 
. 
································································ 
Faust Fever .•• 
Cure II! 
We were (clap/ clap!) 
N.D. (clap/ clap!) 

Will Cap'n Crunch Week be Faust's only shot at a Bowl Game? 
" ...Should have gone to the Sugar Bowl ..." 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY PATTY SUE! LOVE, YOUR FAMILY AND FRIENDS IN COLORADO. 
CROSs-COUNTRYI& 
CROSs-COUNTRY!& 
CROSs-COUNTRY!& 
Saturday at noon at the Golf Course 
GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUT! ORDER A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINE!! WE NOW DELIVER MON-SAT 9-12pm CALL 272­4453 
BUZZ CLUB IS BACKI BUZZ CLUB IS BACK! BUZZ CLUB IS BACK! 
SUNDAY NIGHTI SUNDAY NIGHT! SUNDAY NIGHTI 
711 REX 711 REX 
Happy 19th Birthday Julie! Enjoy that last year as a leenager! Love, Joe 
CINDY/LARRY--HAPPY 20THII AN­OTHER YEAR OLDER-ANOTHER YEAR WISER ... ? I WASNT DRUNK-I JUST FAINTED; YOU KNOW, THIS IS TIM'S FAVORITE SONG; I'LL NEVER WEAR DUCK SHOES TO A PARTY AGAIN; I WONT GO UNDERNEATH THE SHEETS; NU-FU; DENNY'S; FOR­GET THE SALAD-LETS GO FOR THE ICE CREAM; WE'RE NOT GOING TO AVOID ANY HALLS THIS YEAR; WHO'S YOUR BUDDY?; Y'ALL SHOULD STEAL THE SIGN; NO ONE EVER CALLS OR STOPS BY; SEP. 15, 1983--0HWHAT A NIGHT; Y'ALL, WHAT SHOULD I WEAR TOMORROW? LOVE. DI/MO & NEEN/CURLY 
I can TUNE-UP your car! 5 years ex­perience. $20.00 & parts. CaH JAM at 1586. Take care of your car before winter. 
TO DAVE A. IN 227 DILLON: Tall blond would love you to be her date to P.W.'s SYR on October 1st. Please RVSP. 
THE BEST WAY TO MOVE MATTA IS WITH A BRACH AND TACKLE. 
I HAVE 4 PITT TICKETS, AND I NEED USC GA'S. WILLING TO TRADE TICK· ETS OR PAY MONEY FOR USC GA'S. CALL JERRY AFTER II AT x17113. 
HAPPY 21at BIRTHDAY, J. PATRICK OSTRANDER. REMEMBER ... A SHEEP IN THE HAND IS WORTH TWO IN THE BUSH. .. 
TO THE PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE OF ROCK-N-ROLL: IT'S BEEN 10 YEARS SINCE YOU GAVE US A WALKING. TALKING REASON TO LIVE. FROM 'BLINDED BY THE LIGHT' TO 'REASON TO BELIEVE' YOU SHOWED THAT YOU'RE NOT HERE FOR BUSI­NESS, YOU'RE ONLY HERE FOR FUN. YOU GOT THAT GUITAR AND YOU LEARNED HOW TO MAKE IT TALK... SO WATCH OUT 33 113 JUST CAN'T HOLD THE BOSS HAPPY 34th BRUCE 
P.S. THERE'S SO MUCH THAT YOU WA;IIT YOU DESERVE MUCH MORE THAN THIS. 
SENIOR FORMAL INFO. MONDAY SENIOR FORMAL INFO. MONDAY SENIOR FORMAL INFO. MONDAY 
PEGGY-HOPE THIS BIRTHDAY IS THE BEST FOR YOU! GET PSYCHED. LUV VA, KATH,MOE,KIRSTEN 
PEGGY GOLONKA IS "19" TODAYI CALL HER AT NO. 43101 
PATTY SUE: HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO 
THE NUT FROM COLORADO WHO 
HAS AN ACCENTI YOU'RE THE BEST 
ROOMIE A GIRL COULD HAVE! LOVE, 
JAYNIE GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUT! ORDER A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINEJI WE NOW DELIVER MON-SAT 9-12pm CALL 272­4453 
ATTN ALL NO BANDSMEN: IT IS PATTY SUE'S 19TH BIRTHDAY TOMORROW SHE WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR HAPPY BIRTHDAY KISSES IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING PRACTICE ON FRIDAY. LOVE, YOUR OBNOXIOUS BROTHER. 
TO MY ANGEL-FACED CLOSET FRIEND-HAPPY 22ND 
PEG, "THIS ONE'S FOR YOU I" HAPPY BIRTHDAY! LUV. MB,S&K 
ATTENTION MALES WE WILD SMC WOMEN OF ROOM 326 HOLY CROSS ARE LOOKING FOR A MALE MAID MUST HAVE EXPERIENCE IN DOMES­TIC AFFAIRS OF OTHER AFFAIRS. IF INTERESTED CALL NO. 4389 
TO OUR PARTYING BUDDIES­...BOPPIN' TILL WE DROP, "MYM KIEL" AND HER FIGHTING IRISH-FIRST AND TEN! ...SPIKE! COME OUT AND PLAY! GOTTA LOVE THAT CONTINUOUS KEG ON TAP...FRICKER & VO LITEI LET'S GO LEAPER TIPPING .. .WHOMP! ...5·00 AM COLLECT CALL TO MONAI .. .WHO WAS THAT OBLIVIOUS MOUSEKETEER ON THE COUCH ... (HRCHJ) WHAT TIME IS IT? ...ONLY 6·00AM? -NO REST FOR THE WICKED! WHAT A NIGHT! WE LOVE PARTYIN' WITH YOU! LOVE MYRIAM. TRISH AND MISSY 
FREDERICK, VE'RE SO GLAD YOU CAME. BUT VE'RE REALLY GOING TO MISS YOU! LOVE, INGA.OLGA,AND HELGA 
...AND THIS WEEK THE SO PIG IS PASSED TO· KARlE AND MICHELE, COMPLIMENTS OF THE GANGl 
HAPPY 21at BIRTHDAY, J. PATRICK OSTRANDER. REMEMBER ... A SHEEP IN THE HAND IS WORTH TWO IN THE BUSH... 
TWO YEARS USUALLY SEEM FOREVER EXCEPT FOR WHEN THEY ARE SPENT WITH SOMEONE AS SPE­CIAL AS YOU. CAN'T WAIT TO MAKE IT THREE HAPPY ANNIVERSARY AND I LOVE YOU. 
Clarice-Hi!I! Nolie~ the weather changes? Anyway, coming from the west coast I can sympathize. Let me say that~ will get worse. So to keep warm, I suggest a night wrth me at HC's SYR. RSVP. Ar­thur. 
PS ................................ Say hi to Barfin' Betty forme. 
NEEDED· Rehearsal Accompanist for FIDDLER ON THE ROOF. Contact Linda Carvalho at 284-5311 or Mary Stevens at 239-7757. 
OHGODI OHGOD OHGOD Thursday 8 p.m. & 10:15 p.m. c·arroll Hall SMC 

Are you going home early for October break? L.A. Gal needs FOUR G.A.'s to see NO beat USC. Will pay MUCHO $ plus take you to DINNER. Call Michelle 284-4138 
The Observer Monday, September 26, 1983-page 8 
Pro football roundup 

Cowboys nip Saints on safety 
Associated Press 
Linebacker Anthony Dickerson sackl·d New Orleans quarterback Kenny Stahler for a safety with I:'5H remaining in the game ye~tcrday to give the unbeaten Dalla~ Cowhoys a bizarre 21-20 National Football l.c;tgue victory. 
Outpl.tyl'll the entire: game, Oat­las. -1-0, appe1rcd to have lost the garnc when New (>rlean~ linebacker D~·nnis Winswn intercepted a Dan­ny Whitl· pass in the end zone and ran it out to the -\-yard lint·. Hut the Saints. trying to cltch the D;~lla.~ secondary n;tpping, decided to throw thc hall. 
Dickerson, who wasn't timlcll hy Stahler'~ play-acion fake, hlitzcd and c;m~ht .'itahkr in the end zone for thl' winning two poinb. 
Hookic H<tul Allegre ki<:ked a .B­yard field goal after .J:<; I ofovertime to hoosl the Hahimore Colts to a 22­19 victory over the Chicago lkars. Alle~-:re had missed a 4"i-yard Held go:tl attempt with three second~ remaining in regulation. The Bears lost a chance to win in regulation 
conIin ued from page 12 
"We kept him in there because hl"s hcen a starter for us," Faust ex­plained. "lie's a senior and a captain and he was moving the hall." 
After the: second interception, it 
was hack to Beuerlt:in, and hegin­
ning to seem like a plague ofquarter­
back yo-yos. 
"I think it was the logical thing to do," Kiel said. "Steve did a great joh and deserved to he in there." 
A Vl'ry frustrated Kiel took per­
sonal responsibility for the loss. 
"I had two interceptions," he said. 
"Everytime I had a turnover, they 
scored." 
Enough ~loating on the ohvious mistake.~. Notre Dame aho had chances to score and never reaped the henetlts of those opportunities. 
On lkucrlein's tlrsl serit~s in the second quarter, he skillfully maneuvered the team into Miami territory. Smith and Allen Pinkett, terrorizing the right side of Miami's defensive line, tallied IH and 21 yard.~ ru.~hin~ on the drive. The team was unable to penetrate the ~oal line, however, and Faust wc:nt to 
Mike Johnston to attempt a 27-yard 
fleld goal. Out of nowhere, an un­
touched Re~ie Sutton sprung for­
ward blocking the kick. 
Beuerlein's next series had similar results. He marched Notre Dame from his own 33-yard line to Miami's 
23. Once again Johnston got the call. After a faked kick was called back due to a delay of game penalty, 
Johnston was short with his 46-yard attempt. 
In the third quarter, Kiel, who ended up 9 for 21 passing with 88 yards, also experienced the feeling. After the rushing talents of Pinkett and a \6-yard reception hy Milt Jack­son brought the: Irish down to Miami's seven-yard line, the Hur­ricanes held tight. Johnston's 24­yard attemt was once again blocked hy a blazing Sutton. 
"Re~ie's heen blocking them against us all week in practice," Hur­ricane Head Coach Howard Schnel­lenherger said. "He's a quick kid. If you don't get the hall off quick, you're in trouble." 
Finally, the Irish spent the last six 
minutes of the game under Beuer­
lein's direction marching down field 
only to have the quarterback sacked 
at the three-yard line. Its hopes of 
scoring thwarted, Notre Dame suf­when Boll Thomas was wide with his extra point attempt following Chicago's t1rst touchdown of the game. 
Veteran quartcrhack Jim Hart connected with Roy Green on a 26­yard touchdown pass with 29 seconds remaining as the St. Louis Cardinals won their first game of the season. 14-11 over Philaddphia. 
Joe Crihb.~ rushed for 166 yards, bettering his previous single-game hest, to lead Buffalo over Houston ~0-1 ~-Earl Campt>ell had 142 yards in 50 carries for the Oilers. 
Quarterback Steve Grogan and rookie Stephan Starring hooked up on a 76-yard pass play with .~:S9 remaining and the defense picked off three Pitt~burgh passt:s as New England rallied to upset the Steelers 2H-2~. Pittsburgh's Franco Harris 
gaint·d 106 yards on 2S carries, giving him a career total of I 1 ..~09 yard~. second only toJim Brown. He surpassed 0.). Simpson's career yardage total in the loss. 
The San Francisco 49ers ended a six-game home losing streak by heating Atlanta 24-20 as Joe Mon­
fered its first shutout since a ~-0 loss to Missouri in 1978. 
Beuerlein ended the game with 
I~ completions in 2~ attempts and 
14S total passing yards. 
Examining the stats, the game looked pretty even -mayhe even leanin~ toward Notre Dame. The Irish had 22 first downs, picked up 33S total offensive yards, and con­trolled the hall for 29 minutes. Miami had only 19 first downs, 296 offensive yards, while controlling the hall for 31 minutes. The decisive numhers arc Notre Dame's four tur­novers to Miami's two, and Notre Dame's lack ofpoints to Miami's 20. 
Why couldn't the Irish find the secret to crossing the goal line? 
"I honestlfiion't kno$,1111 ~iel said. ''We didn't have the drive we needed to get in there." 
Faust preferred to focus on the Miami ddense and the performance of Kosar rather than the lack of Irish killer instinct. 
September 26 
Time tor BUrning 119661 usA 
tana passed for three touchdowns. 

Joe Theismann's three touch­
down passes lifted Washington over 
Seattle, 27-17, while Miami, behind 
David Woodley's TO pass to rookie 
tight end Dan Johnson, survived a 
mistake-marred first half to edge 
Kansas City 14-6. 

Ken Riley sprinted :H yards with 
an interception for a touchdown and 
Hohcrt jackson ended a threat with 
another mterception as Cincinnati 
won its fir~t game of the season hy 
stopping winle~s Tampa B;ty 2.~-17. 
Benny Hicardo kicked his second tkld goal of the game midw:1y through the final period and Min­nesota held on to nip Detroit 20-17. 
Two touchdown passes from Jim Plunkett to Cliff Branch helped Los Angeles raise its record to 4-0 as the Raiders downed Denver 22· 7, while quarterback Brian Sipe hit tight end Harry Holt with a 48-yard touch­down just 1:S.~ into overtime to lift Cleveland over San Diego 30-24. 
Pat Leahy's 26-yard field goal 8:22 into overtime boosted the New York Jets to a 27-24 victory over the Los Angeles Rams. 
• • • Miami 
"Miami is a good football team," he said. "You've got to give their defense credit for not letting us get into the endzone. And Kosar ( 22 for 33 and 21 S yards) played just a heck ofa game." 
Ofcourse new questions will arise from this Miami trouncing, some of which Faust can try to answer. 
For instance, will Beuerlein start 
next week in Colorado? 

"No, I don't think so," Faust said. "Steve did an excellent job for a freshman. He really hung in there. But, he hasn't had time to get to know the system yet." 
Is Notre Dame really the team that was dominated by Michigan Sate and now Miami? 
"You can call me an eternal op­timist but we're still in real good shape," Faust said. "Our goal this season was to improve over last year. We can still do that." 
Are all the questions answered? Time will tell. 

01rected by W1lh..I'Tl Jersey & Bar bar a Connell B.'W. 58 m1n 
In the rac•alfy ler.~e 1960s. lhe lutheran church comm•sstoned th1s lnm 
to record an Omaha congregatron·s plan lor rmprovrng race relatrons As 
the camera watched the proJect la1led 
tnnenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission; 0
lr~u ~ Jl~l3llllr .......;$_z.,....o • , 

• The Student Union Academic Commission • • presents • 
• An evening of M*A •s•a :•• with David Reiss •• Film clips and slides "bound to have • you laughing in the aisles!"
• Wednesday, September 28 ••
• 

: 8 PM in th~ Library Auditorium : 
• one student will be selected to attend a • : prefecture dinner with Mr. Reiss. Please : • submit to the Student Union Academic • • Commission in 25 words or less why you would • : like to cttend. : 
: Return by Tues., Sept. 27 (2nd floor LaFortune) : 
Baseball Results 
NATIONAL LEAGUEAMERICAN LEAGUE EastEast w L Pet. GBw L Pet. GB _Philadelphia 86 70 .551

x-Baltimore 96 59 .619 
_5 PiUsburgh 82 74 .526 4Det1oit 89 67 .571 7 80 76 .513 6
B.S Montreal 75 81 .481 11New York 87 67 565 
11.5 St LOUIS Chicago 70 BB 449 16Toronto 65 71 .545 
Milwaukee 82 74 526 14_5 404 23 
21 .sNewYort< 63 93 WestBoston 75 81 .481 
Cleveland 67 88 .432 29 Los Angeles 88 67 .568
West 70 .545 35Allan! a 84x-Ch1cago 95 61 .609 
Houston 80 74 .519 7.5 

Kansas City 75 80 484 19_5 20 San D1ego 77 78 .497 11 Texas 75 81 481 24 San Francisco 75 80 484 13Oakland 71 ·as .455 
28 C1nc1nnati 72 83 .465 16 Minnesota 67 89 .429 California 67 89 429 28 Yesterday's ResultsSeaUie 58 97 .374 36.5 
Montreal 5. P1Usburgh 3X·Chnched diVISIOn title 

Atlanta 7, Los Angeles 1 Ph1ladelph1a 6. Sl. LoUis 5, 10 inn1ngsYesterday's Results Ctncinnatl5. San D1ego 2

Detro1t 3, Boston 2 
Chicago 11. New York 7New York 6, Cleveland 4 San Franc1sco 3, Houston 0 Balt1more 5. Milwaukee 1 Minnesota 7, Kansas C1ty 1 SeaHie 2, Texas 1 Chicago 8, Calilor"'a 5 Toronto 8, Oakland 6 

NV A Pairings 
All matches must be played and reported to the NVA off1ce by Fnday, September 30. 
Men's Open Tennis Huebl (3238) v. Toal (1073) Howard 13401) v. Sobzlak 11639) Farley 18191) v. Reymann 14686) Keller 16105) v. Hearn 11633) Grojean v. bye Sharp 13344) v. Knipe (8917) Wall 11 195) v. Harman (1082) James 11530) v. Soergal 11575) Simone v. bye lsikowa v. bye Weigal v. bye Goulet (277-7563) v. Richter 16818) Kokal 18205) v. Kremer 11068) Szatkowski (8852) v. Serrano (3285) Fay 11069) v. Shereda 16760) Kask1 (1641) v. Leyes (1082) 
Kaelin v. Beroit 13127) Norton 18324) v. Decandea (8658) Wolters (3334) v. McGowan 11069) Coleman 14645) v. Bauer 11563) Berestka (6886) v. bye lmmonen 13091) v. bye Millerv. bye Pujals v. bye Baulet v. bye Collins v. bye Poirier (1471) v. Mischke 14521) O'Bnen 11692) v. Bew/acqua 11502) McCanna 18486) v. Bond 11027) Marten 16840) v. Lyon 18376) Limcolioc 1272-1353) v. Dahl 18944) Bosco v. Bell 11423) 
Players whose names do not appear have received a bye. 
MIXED DOUBLES All matches must be played and reported by Sep•ember 30. 
Gee-Jones 11022) v. Marten-Morrow 16840) Moore-O'Bryan 17870) v. Reyes-Schwebel (1372) Niii-Fay (1268) v. Callis-O'Grady (1288) Clifford-Locke 18171) v. bye Huebi-Campbell (3238) v. Rade-McEiroy (1 504) Gro(ean-Molinsky 11248) v. bye 
Para1so-Dougherty (1271) v. Klisart-Lynch (1898) McGinn·Tomkowrtz (8173) v. bye Sobczak-Delapena 11639) v. bye Szatkowski·Szat 18852) v. bye Cleveland-Gallus (4514) v. bye O'Brien-Almeida (1692) v. Chandler-Berestka (7850) Bond-D1mello (1027) v. Krenzer-Eversoll 18016) Randaii-Rosenstre 1341 7) v. Deleo-Deren 1234­6498) Runger-Schmid (1432) v. Bosco-Upda Walters-Collins (3334) v. P01ner-Ukra1ne 11471) 
WOMEN'S TENNIS SINGLES 
Hemmer 12849) v. Blissert (6739) Sommers (381 B) v. Ehman (2964) Almeida 16722) v. Rawson 17859) Zimmerman (6736) v. Demello (1326) Malinski (1248) v. Keller 12191) Sternllzke 17891) v. Sw1ecish (277-4181) Gordon 16966) v. Delapena (1349) Demello v. Becker Thompson v. bye Mulholland I1364) v. Farabaugh 121 86) Bailey (2985) v. Ramos 11322) McGinnis (8037) v. Wong 14208) 
lmmonen (3091) v. Yepsen 11327) Konesky 11297) v. Kohlhaas 18834) Co1n 16803) v. Para1so 11271) ROZIC (6727) v. Cleveland (4514) 
MEN'S NOVICE SINGLES 
Lukas1ak (8272) v. Pernas (3288) Kennaugh (4627) v. Bernhardt (3455) B1ageH1 (1067) v. Taneff 11 129) Polasek (8102) v. O'Hagan (7721) Healy (4625) v. Marczyk 11 857) Berry (1177) v. Gardnier (8646) HuUer 16706) v. PoUer 18314) Pica (3316) v. Klisert Hayes (1194) v. bye K1m 13052) v. Jones (8387) Reardon 18686) v. Horvath (1392) 
O'Toole (8386) v. Clifford (8171) Kelly (1520) v. Geyer (8400) Reed (3378) v. Goris 11 145) Bauman (3546) v. Demarco (1392) Lusser (8989) v. Jordan (1691) 

The Observer 
needs a Day Editor. This is a paid position requiring one free afternoon per week. Experience is required. 
Call Dave at 239·5303 before Tuesday at 6 PM 
If 

Re5taurirnl 
OPPORTUNITIES 
as hot as 
CHILl PEPPERSI 
Exciting new Mexlcan Restaurante OPf:NING SOON 
Seeking responsible Individuals for the following positions: 
• 
food Servers • BusKn 

• 
Line Cooks • Prep Cooks 

• 
Bartenders • Cocktail Serven 

• 
Dishwashers • Hosta/ HosteMes 


APPLY IN PERSON on Monday 9/ 19 from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. On TUESDAY 9/20 thru SATL'RDAY 9/24 from 9 a.m. to I p.m. and frpm 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
at: CHI-cHI's ~U West Cleveland Road (North of University Park Mall) Mishawaka, Indiana 46~4~ 

The Observer Monday, September 26, 1983 -page 9 
. College football roundup 
NFL Standings 
Cornhuskers roll to another win 
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON  30 minutes of football that has ever  rated Alabama beat Vanderbilt 44­ 
Associated Press  been  played  by  a  team  I  have  24.  
coached," he said. "We threw inter­ In the Second Ten, it was No. 11  
Nebraska's Tom Osborne and Ok­ ceptions, we didn't block anybody,  Auburn 37, Tennessee  14; No.  14  
AMERICAN CONFERENCE EAST  NATIONAL CONFERENCE EAST  lahoma's Barry Switzer began their  we didn't run, and we didn't make  Georgia 31, South Carolina 13; No.  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  head coaching careers in 1973 and  anything  happen.  We  are  just  15 Florida 35, Mississippi State 12;  
Buffalo Mtam1 Baltimore  3 3 2  1 1 2  0 .750 0 .750 0 .500  68 74 84  54 57 87  Dallas Washington Philadelphia  4 3 2  0 1 2  01.000 0 .750 0 .500  114 107 59  80 73 64  their teams are traditional rivals, so it was only fitting that they should  making too many mistakes." Switzer's record is 100-18-3 and  No. 17 Michigan 38, Wisconsin 17, and No. 18 Southern Methodist 21,  
New England N.Y. Jets  2 2 2 2 CENTRAL  0 .500 0 .500  98 9t  99 93  N.Y. Giants St. Louis  1 2 1 3 CENTRAL  0 .333 0 .250  35 75  57 115  achieve their 1OOth victories on the same day.  Osborne's is 100-24-2. Meanwhile, in a couple of Top  Texas Christian 17. Florida State, the No. 20 team, was not scheduled.  
Cleveland Pittsburgh Cmctnnatt  3 2 1  1 2 3  0 .750 0 .500 0 .250  99 98 46  84 91 64  Minnesota GreenBay Chicago  3 2 1  1 1 3  0 .750 0 .667 0 .500  83 89 84  t02 87 86  There the similarities ended. Top-rated Nebraska overcame  a  Twenty showdowns, seventh­ranked Iowa defeated No. 3 Ohio  UCLA, off to its worst start since 1974 at 0-2-1, went ahead of  
Houston L.A. Ra1ders Denver Seattle KansasCrty San Diego  0 WEST 4 2 2 1 1  4 0 .000 85 131 Detroit Tampa Bay 0 01.000 89 37 2 0 .500 48 55 San Francisco 2 0 .500 81 85 Atlanta 3 0 .250 49 71 L.A. Rams 3 0 .250 101 1 19 New Orleans Yesterday's Results Dallas 21, New Orleans 20  1 0 WEST 3 2 2 2  3 4 1 2 2 2  0 .250 0 .000 0 .750 0 .500 0 .500 0 .500  68 43 131 83 94 109  81 70 86 71 87 99  10-point deficit to defeat UCLA 42­10 Saturday, while eighth-ranked Oklahoma built a 28-0 halftime lead and held on for a 28-18 triumph over Tulsa, which scored three times in a five-minute span ofthe final quarter. "I just hope I'm around here for another 50 games. That seems like a lot now," said Osborne, whose Cornhuskers lost four of their six first-half fumbles before rallying be­ State 20-14 and No. 12 West Virginia trimmed No. 19 Boston College 27­17. Four other members of the As­sociated Press Top Twenty lost to unranked teams. LSU whipped ninth-ranked Washington 40-14, Kansas shocked No. 10 Southern California 26-20, Miami handed No. 13 Notre Dame its first shutout since the 1978 opener, 20-0, and  Nebraska 10-0 on Frank Cephous' 1· yard touchdown run and John Lee's 37.-yard field goaL But the Cornhus­kers, who had outscored their first three opponents 184-39, rallied be­hind a 600-yard offensive display and scored two touchdowns in each of the last three periods. They also stretched the nation's longest major­college winning streak to 14 games.  
Minnesota 20, Detrort 17 St. LOUIS 14, Philadelphia 11 Buffalo 30, Houston 13  hind the running of Mike Rozier, who gained 159 yards and scored  Maryland, playing without quarter­back Boomer Esiason, defeated No.  "I think our first-team guys needed a game where they really  
Miami 1 4, Kansas City 6  twice.  16Pitt, 13-7.  had to go hard for three or four quar­ 
Cincinnati 23, Tampa Bay 17 New England 28, Pittsburgh 23  Switzer's  1OOth  victory  didn't  Elsewhere, second-ranked Texas  ters," Osborne said. "Our defense  
Baltimore 22. Chicago 19, OT  mean  he  was  happy  with  Ok­ beat North Texas State 26-6, No. 4  played  well  (UCLA  gained  292  
Cleveland 30, San Diego 24, OT Washington 27, Seattle 17  lahoma's sloppy performance in the  Arizona trounced Fullerton State 31·  yards) and I'm sure 90 percent ofthe  
San Francisco 24, Atlanta 20  final two periods.  10, No. 5 North Carolina walloped  teams in the country would love to  
L.A. Raiders 22, Denver 7 N.Y. Jets 27, L.A. Rams 24. OT  "This second half was the worst  William &  Mary, 51-20, and· sixth- have our defense."  
Tonight's Games N.Y. Giants vs. Green Bay  • • • Soccer  


MultipleChoice 
Don't leave your dinner to guesswork.

D 
3oz. 

(serving) 
Protein 12g Fat tOg 



Domino's Pizza is the best choice. Just 2 slices are more nutritious, lower in fat and higher in protein than either a taco or cheeseburger. 
So give us a call and put us to the test. 
Coke available 16 oz. bottles 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Umlted delivery area. ©1983 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
Nutritional information from: Table 1. Nutritional Analyses of Fast Foods, United States Agriculture Research Service. 

Ir·---------------------, 
Mondays only.

I 
Only $6.99 for a 16"

I 
1-item pizza plus 2 16 oz. bottles of Coke. 

I I $6.99 
I 
One coupon per pizza

I 

Expires: 10/1/83

I 
I 
Fast, Free DellveryN

I 
1835 South Bend Ave.

I 
Plaza 23 Center 

I 
® Phone: 277-2151 

I 
35167/2650

I 
I 
~----------------------~ 
continuedfrom page 12 
Right there went the game. Doc­torJ. will miss a dunk before Indiana will miss a penalty kick. Shmid thanked the official for his generosity and promptly drilled it past Steranka for a two-goal cushion. 
"This Indiana team uses a lot more finesse than did Hoosier teams of years past," noted Gorrity. "A couple ofyears ago we would try to use our speed to set up goals. We don't have any superstars, just a bunch of guys with a lot ofindividual skill." 
After carrying a 2-0 lead into halftime, Indiana came out even sharper for the second half. With seven and a half minutes gone, Hoosier forward John Stollmeyer sent a bullet from point blank toward the Irish goaL But Steranka hung tough and made the save to keep the hosts within striking range. 

Ken Harkenrider then took a pass in front of the Indiana net and just missed a goal when he fired wide left. At the 10-minute mark, Castro put the game on ice as he headed a cross past Steranka amidst much confusion in front ofthe goaL 
After that Indiana put on a passing clinic, a give and go here, a cross there. At 29:05 Gorrity just missed making it 4-0 when his header hit 
September 26 

Cover Qlrl(t944) USA-columbia Directed by Charles V•dor Color, 1 0 7 min Rita Hayworth stars as a nightclub girl who wins a magazme cover con­test and becomes a Broadway sensation As she nses in fame, Hollywood casts its eye on advert•s•ng, fashion, and Broadway. Gene Kelly, in his first maror film role, provides the romant1c •nterest Songs by Jerome Kern and Ira Gershwin 
Admission
.:.,Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum $ 2 . oo 
T ~u ~ 11~171t-i·lr--......__., 
$$ WANTED $$ USCvs.ND OOTBALL TICKET (213) 481-7079 
[jf:j['i
~ 
w.~~-~i 
Hickory Smoked Ribs Fried Chicken Deliciously Thick Pizza 
1835 LWE, South Bend, ln. Phone: 288-8240 
St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet Granger, ln. Phone: 277-3143 

Buy a Rib Tip & Chicken Dinner at Regular Price and get the Second at Y2 Price Must Remit Coupon 
Complete Carry Out-Phone Ahead 
Not valid in combination with other coupons No cash value. or specials Expires Sept. 30, 1983. 
the post. No matter. Shmid boomed one home minutes later and the rout was official. The weekend was not a complete loss, however. Tom Daley, Snyder, Harkenrider, and Bill Beasley scored a goal apiece as the Irish dumped Kentucky 4-0 on Friday night. Harkenrider's goal enabled him to break Kevin Lovejoy's record of scoring in six consecutive games. The goal came on a penalty kick and gave the Irish a 2-0 lead at the time. Thus, with a win on Friday and a loss yesterday, Notre Dame's record drops to 7-2 on the season.  
' I I I  

etJ.~ee.e'f-~eed 
adtJ.«t 

/ltetJ.~t 
/14u4-e? 
You. c.an tak.e. an intvte..o t and p!torriote. Jte..opon-6* ib.te. dJtink.ing de. c.i.o i on.o at NotJte. Vame.. 
BJting ljOU.Jt ide.a-6 to thi.o oJtganizationa.t me.e.ting. 
~efd~ 26 at 7:00ft• 
Litt.te. The.atJte., LaFoJttu.ne. 
Monday, September 26, 1983-page 10
The Observer 
Editor's Note: Here it is, this year's Ob­server campus cartoon contest. Here's your chance to let us know which cartoons will continue to run on a dai~y basis and which
Pick your will be given the axe. Ballot boxes are located in LaFortune Student Center, Haggar College Center and the Notre Dame andSaint Mary's dining halls. just put your 'x' on the attached coupon and drop it in one of the ballot boxes by 5 p.m. todl~V-Please vote for just one cartoon.



favorite one! 
Mellish 
DEAN ROE '-It~ M~ QIAtS fiDN
1 Co>~CfRNS 1wo oF T~t c•>~•~s·~ Mosr 
Pt8ATED [oPI<S NAMHY-KfGS ANO
1 

PARJfTALS. ~HIAr SOl~TJONS J<IOUlO YO~ OFFU 11> TH f. SO. P~o Blf"' n 
Dave and Dave 
'tJ£1l 1 M. FAA A~ KEGS GD, Til€. 

TUE HDLIDAY INN.
P'\fl'll6l.II.S OF T~[ N~. OMMUN IT 1 Mll$1 LEA•N To ~ANt>lE AltMIOl. 
"-... 

I!ESPoNS•BLY. KEGS 1 WE Fe.H, ENt0U~A6f ALtoHoL A8U~f.­


John Gibbs
Shmen 


WHL, you. SETTER MAKE YOUR I txJN'r KNoW SAID 1l>I!E OTHER 
NOT AUA IN " YEIIII, ITS TN 

lli:CJSION, WE'RE NEARING IHE ZPt-~E OF UN EXPECTANCY ... 


Aspirin Man 

r-----------. 
'THIS IS .SO E.XCITIHG/I'fY Fl~ f"ltN t£TTU! I 
CIIN'T"" Wllrr "Jt) tEAD IT/ 

I 


L_ -ul 
Spike's World 
• I WAS ltrT,_OO~D Ill Hlfol WlltN I !VAS ~EVE/II YEA~S OLD, 13'( MY f(I£#D, M~(TY 
kKfi(,II~N... • 


OKAY I I'LL HAY£ THE 
VEAL SUKYAK I MIX WiTH 
ASIDE OF TURNIP EXTRACTS 

David J. Adams 
IS EVE"AYT"HWG OICAY IN HERE l :r TIIOU&HT :r HEAR.D SO~HI~ 
1'/IU.. 

1 


Tom Wrobel 



P"----,--..-----..-----·--..-------,·----------~--·------·(•T•e•a•r•o·-u-t)----------------------------------------~ 
t. If I 
CHECK ONE: 

I 
1 I 0Mellish Ooarby's World Oshmen 0Aspirin Man [}spike's World I 
,__,_____ _ ,________________..~ I 
-----·---..-----------------------·-------I 


~4CJt.cllC3L~---------------------------------------M--o•n•d-ay_,_s_e_p.te•m--b.er
__2_6_,1•9•8•3----p-ag_e__l_l 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Campus 
&fr fl1R CUI/6R WfNPW­
aND? WIU-IN515T, Cf' COIJR5e, h/e5 fiNP 1!15 IBM 6000. 
7HifT HIS IN7F>RP6R50Nfl~ RW!­OUVFJ< '5 FflRfNT5 fiR€ WORRIW 
110N5HIPS HAV£ Nf)IFJI. !3e6N 1Htrr Hf f5N'r fl£LA1/(1Kj W6U 10 
etmR ... 

OTHfR Pf()Pt..£ .. . 
'rAP 
cJ-!.CK 1AP (Jt£f?
CJaiAP . 



Fate 
COME ON I THEY 
YOU OW£ IT TO {)5 ­

DES£f<v£ IT -ANOTH£t< 
WHY NOT?
THEY BLEw If ON 

STI~IP ABouT THE 
NATIONAL m.EVISIOI•Jl 

rEAM. 






ACROSS 25 Endured 1 Stripling 28 Greens 4 Muslim 30 Clnereous 
judges 31 African 9 -of the country earth 32 Title for 
13 Felt mama 
anguish 35 Inert 15 Humble 39 Sweet 16 Singer potato 
Adams 40 Desk Item 17 Shopper's 41 Swarm delight 42 Valparal· 18 Lowest so's land 
point 44 Overcame 19 Arrived 45 Tiny groove 20 Extremely 47 Slang of 
noiseless thieves 23 Robt. -48 Vary still 24 Hereditary 53 Coal 
factors screenings 
The Daily Crossword 
Saturday's Solution 
©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 9/26/83All Rights Reserved 
******* Grand Opening! ******* 
DARBY'S PLACE 
-Late night munchie shop ­Open weeknights 12-3 and during Nazz performances on weekends 
·l .-. .... , ­

lHANK YOV, (X.fVfR, BUT /1\Y f3IJT'f IS OKAY. GOOf?. 
Photius 


NAH, tr AIN'T fUNNY ANYMoRE.. 
IT .rUST AtN'I FUNNY.. 
Tom Wrobel 

•Lunch 
hour-Italian Table, for Italian speaking students, South Dining Hall 

•12:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "Large Projects in Brazil's Development Strategy: Policy Con­troversy," Prof. Denis Goulet, Library Lounge 

•3 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduction to Script, 1 15 Computing Center 

•3:30 
p.m. -Informational Meeting, for ap­plicants interested in Lilly Endowment Faculty Open Fellowships, 206 Administration Building 

•4:30 
p.m. Chemistry I.ecture, "Intramolecular Dynamics in Chemistry," Prof. Rudolph A. Marcus, 123 NSH 

•6:30 
p.m. -Women's Caucus Meeting, LaFortune Basement 

•
7 p.m. -Organizational Meeting for Fllm Club, 124 Center for Social Concerns 

•
7 p.m. -Monday Night Fllm Series, "The War Game," and "Time for Burning," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8:
15 p.m. -History Lecture, "The American Conservatives: Where They Come From and Where They Are Going," Dr. John Lukacs, Memorial Library Lounge 

•8:45 
p.m. -Fllm, "Man of Marble," CCE Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Fllm Series II, "Cover Girl," Annenberg Auditorium 


TV Tonight 
6:30p.m.  16  MASH  
22  Family Feud  
28  Wheel of Fortune  
7p.m.  16  Boone  
22  Scare Crow and Mrs. King  
28  That's Incredible  
34  Survival Special  
Sp.m.  16  Monday Night Movie: "Champagne  
Session"  
22  After MASH  
28  Monday Night Football: Green Bay an  
New York Giants  
34  Great Performances  
8:30p.m.  22  Newhart  
9p.m.  22  Emerald Point N.A.S.  
10p.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
34  Big Red Football  
10:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Hart to Hart/ Columbo  
111ft!p.m.  28  Newswatch 28  
11:30p.m.  16  Late Night With David Letterman  

Far Side 

"Tick-lock, tick-tock, tick-lock, tick-lock ..." 
ROLLING STONES 

IN Chatauqua "Charlie is my Darling" & "Stones in the Park" Tues .. Sept. 27 at7,9, 11 

22 Social functicSn 25 "The-In 
Red" 26 Cruising 27 Phony 28 A Thompson 29 Cockeyed 31 Shopping 
center 32 Target 33 Gobycar 34 Coaster 36 Pain ina 
nerve 37 Zoocrea· ture 36 Church ritual song 42 BlackSea 
peninsula 43 Hasten 44 Deplore 45 Pollee 
unit 
48 Evening dress material 
47 Church dogma 49 In a short 
time 50 Shoepart 51 Flyhigh 52 Austen 
title 53 Demier­56 Domestic 
animal 54-ear and 
out... 55 Caper 57 Breathing 
sound 58 Slrfol· 
lower 59 Appoint 60 Original 
thought 61 Concerning 62 Squeal 
DOWN 1 Wt. units 2 Wordof 
woe 3 Take-out place 4 Putup 
vegetables 5 Slacken 6 Art move­
ment 7 Wlfeof Osiris 8 Sultan's 
palace 9 Place position 
10 "There is nothing like-" 
11 Branches 12 Driver's 
need 14 Expunged 21 Actress 
Notre Dame 
~ 
Student Union 
i 
I 
I 


The Notre Dame soccer team bas an up-and-down However, Ken Hart kenrider(12) did seta Notre Dame weekend as it beat Kentucky, 4-0, and lost to defend-recordfor scoring in six consecutive games. For more ing national champion Indiana by the same score. on the soccer team, seeAI Gnoza's story below. 
Indiana shows muscle 
Soccer team wins one, loses one 
ByALGNOZA Joe Shmid scored 2 goals for the the large home crowd with crosses Sports Writer winners while Rodrigo Castro and through the Indiana crease, but neit­Keith Meyer had one apiece. Manuel her resulted in Irish goals. 
It was just another road stop for Gorrity picked up two assists and Then with just under 16 minutes the Indiana soccer team. And so, riddled the Irish defense with pin­left in the first halfShmid took a pass with little fanfare or emotion, the point passing. from Gorrity and beat Irish goalie Hoosiers defeated a very inspired "We've been showing a lot of Mark Steranka from 15 yards out. Notre Dame team 4-0 yesterday at teamwork lately," said Gorrity. Three minutes later the Irish were Alumni Field. "Today we got a chance to work on whistled for a push in their own goal 
The Hoosiers are simply an our passing and fundamentals." crease. Despite much protest from awesome team. Notre Dame found The Hoosiers controlled the ball Irish coach Rich Hunter, the that out yesterday as their op­throughout the first half with Notre Hoosiers were awarded a penalty ponents totally controlled the ball Dame only making brief forays into kick. and did whatever they wanted to the Indiana side of the field. Rob 
see SOCCER, page 9

with it. Snyder and Mark Bidinger stirred 
Monday, September 26, 1983 -page 12 
Miami thrashes Irish in front of nation 
ByJANE HEALEY 
AssistantSports Editor 
MIAMI -All week on Notre Dame's campus people were asking the question, "Which L~ the real Irish football team?" Unfortunately, a 20­0 thrashing by Miami Saturday night seemed an appropriate answer to the inquiry. 
"We were ready for the game," a subdued Gerry Faust said afterward. "We just made errors and you can't do that." 
The errors to which Faust is refer­ring were both the tangible, recog­nizable ones -turnovers -and the intangible, mental ones -the in­ability of the Irish to muster any scoring momentum once they travelled into Hurricane territory. 
Miami's first half 14-0 lead was the product of those tangible mistakes. With 3:10 left in the first quarter, and no score on the board, Notre Dame had the ball on their own 19­yard line facing first down and 20. Irish quarterback Blair Kiel rolled right with plenty of time to throw. When he got the pass off though, it ended up in the crook of defender Jay Brophy's arm. 
The interception gave Miami pos­session on the Notre Dame 30-yard line. Eight plays later, Speedy Neal busted three yards up the middle for the first score of the game. JeffDavis added the extra point. 
In the second quarter, with t.he Irish once again deep in their own territory, Kiel and company faced third down and 10 yards to go. A missnap muffed Kiel's hand-off to fullback Chris Smith, and Miami's Winston Moss recovered the fumble on the 26-yard line. 
Red-shirted freshman quarter­back Bernie Kosar then expertly picked out receiver Stanley Shakespeare and tailback Keith Grif­
fin for receptions of six and five yards, respectively. The Irish defense held tight though, forcing a third down and seven situation. The blitzing Irish sent everyone except conerback Stacey Toran and Pat Ballage after Kosar. Reading the blitz, Kosar called an audible and a quick-release pass led wide receiver Ed Brown into the comer of the endzone with Ballage trailing be­hind. 
"The interceptions -the tur­novers -really hurt," Faust said. "It gave them good field position each time. That's what you can't do." 
The Irish did do it again, though. Miami added a field goal on the first drive ofthe third quarter making the score 17-0. In the fourth quarter, the Irish began a drive on their own one yard line. Kiel's completions to Mark Bavaro and Alonzo Jefferson brought them up to the 39-yard line. 
On second down and 10, Kiel dropped back again with a lot of time, and spotted Bavaro across the middle. Unfortunately, Miami's Ken Sisk also spotted the open Irish tight end, and before the ball got to him, Sisk grabbed it, returning the ball to the 38-yard line. 
Kiel's second interception resulted in another Davis field goal, thus accounting for the 20-0 final score. 
After the fumble in the second quarter, Faust had sent in freshman Steve Beuerlein in to replace Kiel. 
"We wanted to try and get some­thing started," Faust said. "We had planned to use more players and substitute anyway due to the humidity." 
At the beginning ofthe third quar­ter, though, Kiel reappeared at the helm ofthe offense for reasons ofex­perience. 
see MIAMI, page 8 

The thoughts of a disheartened fan 
It's sad to say, but it appears that the real Irish football team stood up -or, rather, laid down -on.'iaturday. 
Now, I will admit that, while I know football pretty well, I'm not an expert. But I do know what I, as well as millions of other people, saw on television Saturday night. 
What I saw was a football team that embarrassed itself 
on national television, not only with its physical perfor­
mance, but also with the character that it showed when 
met with a serious challenge. 
I don't think I need to dwell too much on the physical mistakes. We've been seeing many ofthem for a few years now. The costly interceptions, the poor pass rush, the sight of linemen getting knocked on the seat of their pants by someone fifty pounds lighter. Probably most annoying was the lack off execution in the clutch (fumbled snaps and dumb penalties on third-and-one) and the inability to adjust (two blocked kicks by the same man coming from the same place untouched by the same blocker). 
In short, Notre Dame was outcoached, outplayed, and outmatched. We were beaten by a team that was better than we were. More importantly, we were beaten by a team that wanted it more. Ofcourse, in five ofour last six games, we've been beaten by a team that wanted it more. 
This is the thing that is most upsetting about the last few seasons. If we just weren't as talented as the teams that we've been losing to, I could understand"and accept that, but this isn't the case. We've got so much talent we don't know what to do with it (at least that's what the .ro-c ailed football experts say), but we still lose. 
Most of the losses aren't flukes, either. We are getting beaten all over the tleld. But there is ahsolutely no reason why we should be losing games to teams like Air Force and Michigan State. And there should have been no reason for us to lose our biggest game of the year on Saturday. 
The players and coaches all know that teams will be psyched up when they play us, so why aren't they prepared for this? They knew Miami was going to be ready, so we should have been ready for them. We weren't. 
Who do you blame for the team not be mentally 

Mike Sullivan 
Sports Editor 
prepared? Obviously, a lot of blame belongs to the coaches. 
All the coaches, but particularly the man in charge, are making the players think they are better than they are. I can understand that you have to give the players a boost from time to time, but reminding them after the Michigan State loss that the 1977 team also lost its second game is going a bit too far. 
The players should have been angry after the MSU loss, but they weren't. They acted like it never happened. All they talked about was how they were still going to win the national championship. 
One day, he is going to have to stop saying, "We're a good team and we're going to bounce back." We've been hearing that for three years and the team never really has bounced back. Not that it can't, just that it doesn't seem to have the desire to come back. That hunger for winning isn't there anymore. 
It's not all the coaches' fault, though. The coaches don't mess up snaps and miss blocking assignments -the players do. They are going to have to start realizing that Notre Dame doesn't win because it's Notre Dame. It has always won because ofhard work and a winning attitude. If you don't want to win, you won't. Don't tell me that Nebraska doesn't want to win more than any poor team they might play. 
Let's stop for a second. 
If it seems that I'm being too harsh on the team and the players, maybe I am. But I think I have the same reason as those people who are, for the first time, voicing their an­ger. 
I have been very patient during the last few years, al­ways waiting for us to explode. This year I thought was the year. Everything seemed to be going right. 
Now I had questioned the desire of the team for my first couple ofyears, but I figured that it would work itself out when the Faust recruits began playing major roles. 

Michigan State started to get me wondering again. 
When some ofthe players said that the Spartans wanted it 
more, I was really upset, but I decided to write it off as a 
bad day. 

The national television performance convinced me, 
though, that I may have overestimated the players and 
the coaches. Not all of them (you could tell who wanted 
to win and who didn't just by watching the game), but 
enough ofthem to let Miami walk all over us. 
The thing that I will probably never forget about Satur­day is the sight ofthe classless Miami players taunting the Notre Dame players -and the Notre Dame players not being able to do anything about it. I know it was frustrat­ing for me to watch it, but I sure hope it was more frustrating to the players. Here was Notre Dame, for years the big kid on the block, now playing the part ofthe little weakling who can't stand up to the bully. 
I feel somehow betrayed even though I really have no right to. But, I'm sorry, I have been through this ever since I got here. 
I don't have anything against the players or the coaches, although I don't think we arc as talented as people say we are. I hope that I'm wrong about the players' attitudes. So far, there is really nothing to make me feel otherwise, though. 
I'm not the only one that feels this way toward the team, though. I said last week that the students had been pushed to the edge. The performance against Miami pushed 95 percent of them over the edge -before the third quarter ended. 
A couple of the team leaders may have said that the players were playing for themselves, but I don't think they thought that there words might come true. 
The last eight games will show us ifthe players have got anything deep inside that hasn't come out yet. Beating Colorado won't prove anything. Beating USC won't prove anything. Only the results at the end of the season will mean anything. 
Maybe, ifthe players see where this season has headed, they will show everyone the thing that they have failed to show so many times over the last few years -the desire to win. 





