• • • Lent-page8 

WASHINGTON (AP)-CongreS1\ 
ab0!!t !325 million in food and shel­broke a final deadlock yesterday and ter for victims of the longest reces­sent President Reagan anti-recession sion since World War II, as well as 
.. 
legislation including S4.6 billion for several hundred million dollars food, shelter and public works jobs more for social programs. as well as funds needed urgently by The bill also provides $1 billion in 
more than half the states to pay un­Community Development Block 
...
employment benefits. Grants to local governments, of 
Final approval came on a voice which $375 million may pay for vote in the House, two days after the public service employment. That Senate cleared the compromise bill was a provision advocated by and with lawmakers anxious to ad­women's groups concerned that journ for a 10-day Easter recess. men would be the beneficiaries of 
As of nightfall, the measure, for the public works money provided technical reasons, had yet to be ac­elsewhere in the bilL tually delivered to Reagan. But the Most ofthe balance ofthe S4.6 bil­administration, meanwhile, told lion commits money to a variety of states whose unemployment ac­construction projects, including counts have run dry that they can flood control, highways, Veterans resume issuing benefit checks im­Administration hospital repair, air­mediately. port improvements and Tennessee 
The fmal action came as House Valley Authority programs. members accepted a Senate In addition to those elements, the proposal that will make sure that legislation carries an emergency A crowd of welfare and food stamp recipients about S2 billion of the $4.6 billion supplemental appropriation of $5 wound out the front door of the First Currency goes directly to areas where the Exchange in Rock Island trying to pick up their 
see ANTI-RECESSION, page 5
recession has hit the hardest. checks under a new, system imposed by the II­
"I think this is the best com­promise we could. achieve .. .in ter~s of targeting the money to areas of most need," said Rep. Lawrence Coughlin, R-Pa 
Added Rep. Silvio Conte, R-Mass., 
Three EPA officials submit resignations 
"I think we won a great victory here WASHINGTON (AP) The over as acting administrator just two Counsel Robert M. Perry were also expressed an interest in taking the
today." 
job permanently, but almost im­Some members feared that under Reagan administration, in a continu­weeks ago and immediately became resigning. 
mediaely he found himself the sub­
the original House bill, much of the ing effort to clean up the Environ­the focus ofcongressional investiga­The resignations were requested mental Protection Agency, asked for tions, will turn in his resignation for­in meetings late yesterday afternoon ject on congressional inquiry into
funds would go to areas represented and received the resignations yes­mally today, according to a source with White House aide Joe Ryan. his handling of a report on dioxin
by influential lawmakers. Even with close to Hernandez. "The White House apparently contamination in Michigan. 
the changes, that will still be the case terday of the acting head of the for several transportation projects agency and two other officials under Another agency source, who also feels that if those three are taken EPA officials in Chicago testified spoke on condition he not be iden­away, then the congressional inves­that Hernandez ordered them to
and building of housing on military investigation by congressional com­bases. mittees, EPA sources said. tified, said Assistant Administrator tigations will taper off," said one cooperate with Dow Chemical Co. in revising the report, which in its
Overall, the measure will provide Dr. john Hernandez, who took John A. Todhunter and EPA general source. They are just the latest in a series final version Dow's Midland plant of firings and resignations as the was the source ofdioxin contamina­Reagan administration has struggled tion i he area.
Charles A. Bowsher 
to control an expanding congres­sional probe into allegations of con­More EPA stories flict of interest, political
Reduced growth emphasized 
manipulation and mismanagement -page4 at the agency.
By CECILIA LUCERO the support of influential members steel -Bowsher observed. "High It started with the president's Perry has been questioned by a
StaffReporter of commerce, finance, law, and rates of economic growth are made firing of Rita Lavelle, chief of the congressional committee about ap­
education, including Notre Dame possible by high rates of investment Reducing the growth of defense, President Father Theodore Hes­in plant, equipment, research and toxic waste dump cleanup program, parently collecting statements he on Feb. 7. Yesterday's dephl-tures made about whether he kept a
social and entitlement ex­burgh. development, and public in­make it a total of eight top EPA offi­"green book" listing derogatory
penditures, and rebuilding the Bowsher claims that, although the frastructure. 
cials who have been fired, asked to comments about certain emplovees.
revenue base of the federal budget deficits are, "to some extent un­He continued, "Investments oc­resign or quit, and that does' not Allegations being investigatedwould alleviate the current fiscal avoidab'ie because ofthe recession," cur when savings of the economy against Todhunter include that hesituation, which is burdened by an they are still too extreme. Even with are available for private sector uses. count several others on the staffs of received a Sl,664 payment from aexpected deficit of $200 billion for an economic recovery, he claimed Savings are not available for private the eight. 
Anne McGill Burford resigned as former employer after stating workthis fiscal year, according to Charles that the deficit would reach 5300 investment when they are absorbed 
head of the agency on March 9, at the EPA. The firm subsequentlyA. Bowsher, comptroller general of billion by 1988. by the government to finance its saying she did so because she had received a 540,000 no-bid contractthe United States and head of the The deficit is detrimental to the deficits." 

General Accounting Office. continued economic growth and 
Bowsher presented "Perspective sustained recovery from the reces­on the Federal Budget" to a capacity sion, as well as to the health ofsome crowd yesterday afternoon in the industries -such as automobile and Memorial Library Auditorium, as part of the Cardinal O'Hara 
Memorial Lecture series. 
Beginning with an overview ofthe present fiscal sitation, Bowsher pointed out that recent. deficits ­$127 billion for fiscal year 1982, and S200 billion projected for this year­-have been developing over the past 
twenty years. 
"Recently, the actual and 
prospective budget deficits have 
become so large that many in the 
public press speak of an endless 
river of red ink," Bowsher said. 
"Public concern is now so high that 
last January, six former cabinet 
members formed a bi-partisan coali­
tion to draw the President's atten­
tion to the fiscal crisis." 
A coalition document, defining 
the crisis and its implications, drew from Todhunter's office although

become the focus of many of the congressional investigations. Todhunter denied any involvement 
The federal budget has absorbed 71 percent of personal savings 
Hernandez, who had been deputy 
see BOWSHER, page 6 administrator at EPA for two years, see EPA, page 4 
Over spring break 
$2, 000 taken in Lewis break-in 
By LIZ MILLER The thefts came to Baker's attention early Sunday News Staff morning when they were reported by returning resi­dents. Security was immediately notified, and the 
Doors are locked around Lewis Hall these days as a number of guards assigned to Lewis was doubled. result of a series of robberies that occurred over Also, door locks were changed Monday morning. Spring Break, in which approximately $2000 worth 
The security department has several good leads in ofgoods were stolen from four hall rooms. 
the case, Schellinge said. Terry, however, noted thatItems reported stolen include a stereo, two cas­"we:. don't have a terribly good description of the sette tape players, a typewriter, two clocks, a watch, suspect" yet. 
jewelry, a case of beer and 555 worth of food, said One Lewis resident who stayed here over break
Notre Dame security guard Ann Schellinger. heard a key in her lock late one night but apparently
Moira Baker, Lewis Hall Rector, returned from thwarted the efforts ofthe ~tential burglar.:
break late last Saturday night and discovered that her _key ring had been stolen. The key ring was later Other than the Lewis burglaries, the break was returned, but the master key had been removed. "relativley quiet" security-wise, Terry said 

ews Brie_b 
By The Obsemer and The AssociatedPress 
Today is the last dayto drop a class this semester at Notre Dame without receiving a failing grade. Upperclassmen must receive permission of the college dean, and freshmen must meet with their advisors at the Freshmen Year ofStudies. -The Obsemer 
The University of Notre Dame's 
$203,767,000 endowment is the 18th largest among U.S. colleges and universities, according to a survey published in the Chronicle of Higher Education. This is the highest position attained by the Uni­versity since the trade publication started to rank endowments by their n.;arket vah1e at the e11d of the most recent fiscal year. Harvard University's $1.7 billion lead~ all inStitutions ofhigher learning in the country, followed by the University of Texas system with S1.6 bi!­lion, the only state school among endowment leaders. Seven mem­bers of the Ivy league are among those ahead of Notre Dame. The nearest Catholic institution to Notre Dame is Loyola University in Chicago, ranked 39th with an endowment of $95 million. Other In­diana institutions listed among the 194 institutions were Earlham College, 67th, S46.3 million; Saint Mary's College, 119th, $18 mil­lion; Indiana University, I42nd, $14 million; and the University of 
Evansville, I 74th, $5.8 million. -The Observer 
Three midwest jurists will preside at the final 
arguments ofthe Moot Court Appellate Competition for the Univer­
sity of Notre Dame Law School at 4: IS p.m. today in the Memorial 
Library Auditorium. Presiding judges will be Theodore McMillian of 
the U.S. Court ofAppeals, Eighth Circuit, St. Louis; Robert Grant, U.S. 
District Court for the Northern District of Indiana, and V. Susan 
Shields ofthe Indiana Court ofAppeals. Senior students participating 
in the competition are Roy Harmon, Columbia, Tenn.; David Koth­
man, Dayton, Ohio; David Knight, Gainesville, Fla.; andJames Better­
man, Omaha, Neb. The public is invited. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's will sponsor a "Spring Day on 
Campus" April 10, for high school juniors from the states ofIndiana, 
Illinois, Michigan and Ohio. Conducted by the Admissions Office, 
the event will provide an opportunity for juniors interested in 
attending college to meet professors, administrators, and current 
students ofSaint Mary's. Those attending also will have a chance to 
interact with other high school students who share an interest in the 
College. The day's calendar includes an academic open house; a dis­
cussion of admission, career and financial aid information; athletic 
exhiitions; a student government presentation; student-guided 
campus tours, and a brunch.-The Obsemer 
The International Student organization is 
sponsoringThe International Student Festival, Sunday at 7:30p.m. in Washington Hall. The festival is pertormed for the benefit of American students and the Notre Dame Host Family Association. It will feature acts such as traditional t dances, folk songs and instrumen­tal music from Mainland China, Taiwan, Philippines, Ireland, Mexico, India and Bolivia. All the performers are Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students.-The Obsemer 
Saint Mary'S Hall Officer Elections held yesterday 
resulted in a runoffffor president and vice president of McCandless 
Hall. Candidates Susie Miller and Kate Schirger will run against 
Danita Eartly and Karen Nicholas in Monday's runoffelections. Both 
tickets received more votes than the third ticket of Sheila Whalen 
and Paula Ballantine. Rebecca Kerger and Anne Sargeant were 
elected officers of LeMans Hall over Lauren Baumann and Anne Gal­
lagher. The new Holy Cross officers are Cathy Mclssac and Ellen 
Byrne. Amy Rynaski and Barb Weber ran unopposed in Augusta Hall. 
-The Obsemer 
Derek Weihs, a sophomore marketing major from Sarasota, Fla., was appointed Business Manager ofthe WSND stations last night. Weihs, who was Sales Director last year, will take office April 1, pending the approval of the Executive Board. -The Ob­
semer 
The Graduate School of Business is hos­
ting its second invitational MBA case competition starting Sunday. 
Master ofBusiness Administration student teams, representing Ohio 
State, Illinois at Champaign-Urbana, Missouri at Columbia, and Notre 
Dame, will prepare a case in business policy and present it to a distin­
guished panel of judges, representing both business and academia. 
The competition starts Sunday evening at the Center for Continuing 
Education and continues through Tuesday. Presentations will be 
made between 10:15 a.m. and 3 p.m. Tuesday. This year's event is 
funded in part by a grant from the Johnson and Johnson Family of 
Companies, headquartered in New Brunswick, New Jersey. "We at 
Johnson and Johnson are very pleased to help fund an event which 
we feel is a valuable academic experience," said Michael Longua, 
director of corporate-college relations, and we look forward to a 
quality competition between some of the finest business schools in 
the country." The MBA degree places emphasis on the foundation, 
organization, operation, and control of a business enterprise with 
special atttention to the manager's responsibility for diagnosing 
problems. Frank Reilly, dean of the College of Business Administra-. tion, notes, "this competition provides a fitting capstone to the MBA experience and we're happy to have the opportunity to both host .and compete in this worthwhile, extracurricular activity." -The 
Obsemer 
High in upper 30s to low 40s today. Fair and not as cold tonight Low in upper 20s to near 30. Chance ofsnow develop­ing late Saturday. High in upper 30s to low 40s. -AP 
Friday, March 25, 1983-page 2 
Patrician politics 
On his way to work, a Catholic police officer noticed a crowd goggling at a man standing on the twelfth floor ledge ofa Belfast office building. 
Hoping to save the beleaguered man, the officer yelled, "For the love ofyour wife, don't jump!" 
''I'm not married," came the reply. 
Unwilling to give up, the policeman cried, "For the love ofyour mother, don't jump!" 
"My mother's dead," the man shouted. 
In desperation, the policeman called out, "For the iove afthe Blessed Virgin, don't jump!" "Who?" "Jump, you bloody Protestant!" 
In the sadness we know as Northern Ireland, such humor translates into the horror of day-to-day exist­ence among the land mines and barbed wire offear and hatred. Britain's first colony remains its greatest moral failure, as 1.5 million men and women share the burden of a 25 percent unemploy­
ment rate. sons as Nobel Peace Prize 
But the despair of a Cath­Laureates Betty Williams olic population (which and Mairead Corrigan. numbers over 500,000) And though the Northern crosses the Atlantic as the Ireland Peace Movement specific rage of some 300 died before Corrigan and 
hooded punks trained as Williams received their guerrillas of the Provisional prizes in 1977, their at­Irish Republican Army. tempts at ending the 
These "freedom fighters" violence of the Provos and 
have lost the support oftheir curbing the brutality of the citizens among Stalinist police stands as a testament rhetoric and gangland mur­to cooperation of Christians ders of such heroes as Lord dedicated to peace. 
Mountbatten and such The greatest challenge for 
nameless men as an unlucky Americans to overcome in school crossing attendant. the understanding of Ulster And with the selection of is that the Catholics. of 
Provisional l.R.A. supporter Michael Flannery as grand marshall of last week's Saint Patrick's Day Parade, the violence of a 300-year-old crisis entered the streets of New York City. But that entrance came without the offi­cial sanction ofthe Roman Catholic Church as Cardinal Terence Cooke refused to review the first half-hour of the spectacle. Flannery, who had spoken to the cardinal earlier that morning, said he respected Cooke's deci­sion and gracefully tipped his top hat to the empty steps ofSaint Patrick's Cathedral. 
But while some hard-line supporters of the "Provos" booed Cooke when he finally appeared to witness the parade, the majority of the crowd was too drunk to notice Cooke's temporary absence. 
New York's two most famous Irish-American Cat­holics, Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan and ex-Gov. Hugh Carey also refused to watch a parade which featured a "terrorist group" supporter. 
And while there is no doubt that the recent travesties of the Provos have only attested to the senselessness of 

Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy Design Assistant................ Dave Robinson ("Yeww Kaaaay!") Typesel/ers ..................................Jim &.Toni News Editor. Vic Sciulli ("We're through 
Hooligan!") Copy Editor.......... Carol Camp (Phi Slama Jama!) Features Layout ................ Sarah Hamilton Sports CopY Edltor..................jane Healey ND Day Editor........ ..... Tim Petters SMC Day Editor.................... Bruce Oakley Typists:................................... Monica Gugle AdDesign ....................................... Bob Slota Photographer.......... ................. Pete Laches 
GuestAppearances .......Jeb & Colleen M. Quinn, David and Rabbit, Tim, Mary, Chris, Marc, and an obscene phone call! 
The Observer IUSPS 598 920) IS published Monday through Fr~day and on home football Saturdays except dur~ng exam and vacatton penods The Observer ts published by the students of Notre Dame and Satnt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by wnt1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame. lndtana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press All reproduCtiOr> nghts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1d at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
. ­1\oUii.IC l:>iVHIC/\AII\If !MRH· 
C{)ltvHIJNIICAilii{)N
;,...._...__iJllrUCAilRIC lr=ll?III[)A\_, lfiiiL""l ~ltll?lllt~ 
March 25 
Tragedy of a Ridiculous Man (19811 llernardo Bertolucc1. Italy. color. t t 8 m1n. ltal1an w1th English subtitles An helf IS captured by a band of terror~sts 1n Bertolucc,·s (The Conform­lSI. Last Tango 1n Pans) latest commentary on the traged•es and absur· d1t1es of 11v1ng 1n a late technological soc1ety 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission ~--0r1() ~ 11~131tllr--$2-·0-0__, 
THEH/JRLEM
GWBETROTTERS® 
SAT., APRIL 9 7:30PM 
Tickets on sale at A. C. C. Box Office, 9AM to 5PM 

Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Friday 

violence, the feeling among many Irish Americans is 
that the Ulster question is simply a matter to be handled 
by its 25,000 law enforcement officers (including some 
i o,ooo L\.r!tish soidkrs} 
But Northern Ireland deserves more than a simple solution to its religio-political woes, and as authorJack Holland observes in Too Long a Sacrifice, that solution begins with an American understanding of the struggle between Catholics and Protestants who claim not only Marxist hoodlums and vile drum-beating Orangemen, 
but also such dedicated per­
Northern Ireland, while 
numbering 35 percent of the population, are politically powerless without a strong leader to unite the Provisional and Official wings ofthe Irish Republican Army. American Catholics, who 
compose only 25 percent of the United States popula­
tion, boast not only a former president, but also over 
100 members of Congress. Indeed, the plight of 
American Catholics has been reversed in the 130 years 
since the heyday of the Know-Nothing Party. 
A lot more than the Atlantic separates America and 
Ulster. 
Observer note.._----~ 
The Obsemer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Saint Mary's office in the Regina Hall basement is open from noon to 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day service is 3p.m. 

-:----~-~~ ~----~--~ -~ 
The Observer Friday, March 25, 1983 -page 3 
'Peace' trip 
Pope sparks conflict in Nicaragua 
By CATHY PAX advantage ofTV coverage." ton. "This position conflicts directly StaffReporter Both Pelton and Larson believt:, with the United States' military however. that the demonstration policy toward Central America, 
Although the Pope embarked on would not have continued if the however, and therefore increases his recent Central American trip to Pope had spoken more concretely the tension between the position of promote peace and to administer to to the people. Pelton said. " The 'the bishops and the federal govern­the needs of the people. his Pope and the masses were on two ment," he said. presence directly sparked conflict in different wavelengths." The Pope does not view the Nicaragua and indirectly heightened The Sandinistas showed an unjus-problem in Central America as an tensions in the United States. tifiable lack of respect toward the East/West conflict. as Reagan is 
Robert Pelton, C.S.C., Director of Pope, said Pelton. "It doesn't matter prone to do, Pelton explained. On the Notre Dame Institute for Clergy if they like the Pope," said Pelton, several occasions the Pontiff spoke Education and an authority on the "but he is the Pope and therefore directly against US and Soviet inter· church in Ct:ntral America, is unct:r­commands respect." John Paul vention in Central America. tain about the wisdom of the Pope's should not be blamed for his aver-American Catholics agree with the decision to travel to Nicaragua sion to the Marxist Sandinista move-Pope on this issue, said Pdton. during such volatile times. ment, Pelton believes. "The Pope "Most U.S. citizens are not in accord "Nicaragua is even mort: divided comes from Poland and has suffered with the ft:deral government's now. as a result of tht: visit." he said. under Marxism. Ht: rejt:cts the op-military actions in Ct:ntral America." 
Pelton agrees with Roy Larson, pression he has suffered," said Pel-Conflict also erupted when the religion editor of the Chicago Sun­ton~ "If you and I would have been Pope met one of the prie~ts who Times, about the cause of the brought up in Poland. we would act refused to resign his political posi­Nicaraguan conllict with the Popt:. the same way." tion at Papal rt:quest. The Pope Larson attended a controversial The visit also caused political believes that pnest~ should not be :\lass in \lanagua which was inter· repercussions in the l'nited States. involved in partisan politics. Pelton rupted hv a chanting crowd. "His presence and word~ thert: agrees with the Pope on this account 
Larson wrott: that the crowd was (Central Amt:rica) strengtht:nt:d tht: also.
ASMJCL\TED PRESS 
U.S. Vice President George Busb was given a standing or•ation manipulatt:d and the rebd position of both North Americ.:an "These priests art: not exercising from members of Parliame11t in tbe House of Commons during demonstration had been planrit:d by and Central American bishops who puhlicly their ministry." he said. Question Period Wednesday. Busb is in Ottawa for official talks political kader~. Pelton agrees that favor a non-military solution to tht: "Ordinarily, taking a political posi­U'lfh Prime !Hinister Trudeau and otber Canadian officials. "the rebels wt:re obviously taking Central American crisis," said Pel-tion is not the best u~e for a priest'~ 
training. They shouldn't be using the pulpit for a soapbox." 
Pelton believes that priests can­
be without political views, however. "Wt:'re all political," he said. "Priests have rights as citizt:ns. 
Two-year debate 
Congress approves Social Security bill not 
including tht: Holy Fatht:r. The 
WASHINGTON (AP) -House Shannon said House negotiators Bush and all members of Congress, retirees pay income tax on half their church should not be used for par­and Senate negotiators agreed last were willing to agree to speed up a under Social Security nextJanuary 1. bt:nefits, and delaying this July's tisan political purposes, htlwever." night to raise the normal retirement Senate safety mechanism, called a Unless Congress passes a new sup­cost-of-living increase untilJanuary. The Pope's VISit to Central age to 67 in the next century as part trust-fund "stabilizer." It would plementary pension plan or . Although a majority of the 1 5 American was still very favorably in· of the sweeping S165 billion rescue modify the cost-of-living formula modifies the currt:nt system before commission members also endorsed fluential, Pelton believes. "THe Pope package for Social Security. when trust fund reserves shrank then, the president, the lawmakers raising the retirement age to 66 then is more intluential in Central 
The agreement hurdled the last beyond a certain point. and new civil servants will have to indexing it to longevity, that was not America than he would be here (US) major obstacle to final passge of the The special commission whose pay a total of I4 percent of their part of the deal Reagan and O'Neill because more people are Roman Social Security bill after two years' recommendations formed the salaries towards Social Security and subscribed to. 
Catholic." debate, study and partisan con­blueprint for the legislation had the current civil sevice retirement troversy. recommended putting the stabilizer fund. Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, D-111., an­into effect in I988 when the trust The bill also contains provisions nounced after six hours of private fund is expected to fall below a 20 for a S2 billion, six-month extension talks, "Agreement has been reached percent reserve. Shannon said that of an emergency jobless benefits in all areas." from I985 to 1988, the stabilizer program that was due to expire at The Senate members of the con­would be in effect, but only if the the end of the month. ference committee agreed to drop reserve sinks below I 5 percent. Under the compromise agreed to their plan to raise the retirement age If the stabilizer were triggered, it by the conferees, there would be t up to 66 by the year 201 5 and cut would give pensioners the lower of to I 0 more weeks of benefits for future pensions by 5.3 percent at the average increase in consumer workers who have exhausted 55 


that point. prices or workers' wages. Pensions 
The compromise would affect now rise in lock-step with the Con­everyone born in 1938 or later. The sumer Price Index. retirement age would hit 66 in the Sen. Russell B. Long, D-La.. who year 2009 for those born in I943. convinced the Senate on Wednes­There would be no change for al· day to delay coverage of new civil 

most a decade, hut then the age servants until Congress devises a would start rising again to 67 in supplementary plan for them, was weeks of state and federal benefits 202"'. rebuffed when his Senate colleagues before April 1. Some 1.6 million job­
HIGH
A pension would still he available voted on party-lines, 4-3, to bow to less workers woul1 be affected. 
SAVANNAH 
at age 62, but at a bigger penalty than the House plan. Only Sens. Lloyd The House pass~d the bailout plan ROAD 
SMILES 
now -the discount from full Bentsen, D-Texas, and Daniel 282-1-!8 on March 9. The Senate ap­benefits would be 30 percent in­Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., sided proved its version, 88-9. late Wed­TO stead of 20 percent. with Long. nesday after six days of debate in CHINA 
1:30-3:30
Earlier. members of the con­By accepting the House plan, the which it adopted nearly 50 amend­ference committee, anxious to leave conferees also would bring all cur­ments. 1:30-3:25 2:00-4:30 5:30-7:30 town for the I 0-day Easter recess, . rent federal judges, and 3.000 other The two houses did not differ on 5:20-7:15 7:00-9:30 9:40 agreed to force new federal workers political appointees and top govern­the centerpiece of the plan: slightly 
9:30 IPGI IPGI ~ 
into the Social Security system start­ment executives, as well as Presi­higher payroll taxes in 1984 and ing in January. dent Reagan, Vice President George 1988-89; making more affluent 

'Overextended' 
Sorin Hall rector resigns 
By SUSAN O'HARA 
StaffReporter 
Fr. David Porterfield, C.S.C., has resigned as the rector of Sorin Hall because he feels he was "ovt:rextt:nded" by working two full-time jobs. 
In addition to his position as rec­tor of Sorin Hall, Porterfield is a prominent figure on the admissions board. As a member of the admis­sions board. much of his time is spent traveling, recruiting students, and serving as Chairman for the Human Relations Committee for the 
Indiana Association of College Ad­missions Counselors. 
Because Porterfield is not always accessible to his students, he feels he is not completely fulfilling his job as rector. and consequently has 
dt:cidcd to dt:vote more attention to 
his position on the admissions 
board. 
Fr. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.. and Fr. John Fitzgt:rald, C.S.C., both assistant rectors for Sorin Hall, will continue as assistant rectors until the end of this semester. Candidates are being interviewed for the position of rec­tor, but no names have been released. 
Fr. Porterfield is a 1965 Notre Dame graduate who spent the decade following his graduation teaching in Illinois and Ohio. He returned to Notre Dame in 1975, and spent three years studying in the Master's Divinity Program preparing for the priesthood. In I978, he was the first lay person to be appointed as a rector. Shortly thereafter, he was ordained, and in I979 obtained his current position on the admissions board. 
In the past,Portert1eld has become increasingly involved on the admis­sions board. He works extensively with the Counselors' Association. which is instrumental in increasing the numbt:r of minorities enrolled in colleges nationwide. 
Porterfield has also been invited to chair a panel at the NACAC (National Association ofCollege Ad­missions Council). Porterfield is anxious to become more involved in the counselors' association, but is 
quick to note that his years as rector of Sorin Hall have been "fulfilling, exciting and rewarding." 
Pink Floyd-The Wall 
ROCKY HORROR 
Fri & Sat at Midnight 
2 for 1 with this ad. 
...
0 a a a 0 0 0 0 0 0 o.a 
th€ 0BS€RV€Q 
1s nowacc€ptlnq appl1cat1ons ~OR th€ POSitiOn 0~ 
assistant ~tuRes €b1toR 
appl1cat1ons must B€ 1n BY ~RIOay, 5 pm call SaRah at 239-5313 ~oR moR€ m~oRmatlon 
---------~---------~ 
Friday, March 25, 1983 -page 4
The Observer
1
f 


Restaurant and lounge 
Open Sunday Serving beer· .75e and your favorite drinks · .90e from

0 3-7 pm. Dancing 8-12 pm. 
n 
w 1516 N.lronwood Mon-Sat 11am-1am 0 just east of campus 
Edison
m-·~--...d 
Your Host: Ron DeLaere, N.D. '64 
IHMn~~.-o.--~..~..~..~~ 
STUDENT NURSES EARN AND LEARN 
Methodist Hospital of Indiana. Inc. is pleased to offer an EARN and LEARN summer employment program to nursing students who have comQieted at least 1 guarter or semester of clinical in their curriculum. 
This will be a unique opportunity for students to have further guided educational opportunities to observe patients in a clinical environment including ancillaries. Students may care for patients, observe tests, procedures, surgeries, therapies and gain insight into continuity of care not normally available because of their limited clinical time as students. 
Limited positions are available for students for a minimum commitment of 10 weeks between May and August. Students may select their area of choice and an orientation will be provided based upon individual needs assessment. Upon completion of the initial10 week commitment students will be eligible to continue work throughout the remainder of the fiscal year on weekends, holidays in the same area or other preferred clinical selection if desired and needed. 
Students may apply beginning March 15 until all jobs are filled by calling 317-929-8931 and requesting an EARN and LEARN interview. To expedite the hiring process students must bring to the scheduled interview a transcript and a letter of recommendation from an instructor including verification of successful completion of at least 1 quarter or semester of clinicaL 
Andrea Harding, Nurse Recruiter METHODIST HOSPITAL OF INDIANA. INC. 
P.O. Box 1367, t604 N. Capitol Ave. Indianapolis, IN 46206 
An Equal Opportunity Employer MIF 
25OJo reduction 
EPA to reduce mileage ratings 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The En­vironmental Protection Agency, accused for years of inflating its an­nual auto mileage ratings, may pare the numbers back by as much as 25 percent to better reflect what motorists can expect in day-to-day driving. 
Agency officials said yesterday they hope to issue in the next several weeks proposed methods to reduce the tlgures. While the final method has not been picked, one staff recommendation would simply slash the numbers from the laboratory tests by a t1xed percent­age. 
For the city mileage t1gure, the cut might be only 5 percent to 10 per­cent, but for the highway mileage figure, the drop could be between 20 and 25 percent according to Charles Gray, director of EPA's auto testing center in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
The mileage figures are one of the government's most widely quoted statistics, featured prominently in the multimillion-dollar ad cam­paigns Detroit wages to lure cus­tomers into showrooms. 
But they have also been attacked as being totally unrealistic. A House 
Government Operations Commit­
tee report in 1980 said the gap be­
tween the figures and actual mileage 
was as high as 30 percent. 
The EPA has urged motorists to 
use the rankings only to compare 
one model against another, not as a 
prediction oftheir own mileage. 
But government surveys show consumers are ignoring this advice. 
Gray said the government will propose changing the numbers. He said the leading proposal would app­ly a tlxed percentage cut for all the figures. He said this would be the simplest approach and would not in­volve complicated attempts to change the current test procedures to better reflect road conditions. The EPA test requires each car to be run on a laboratory treadmill to come up with mileage and exhaust emission figures. 
Critics have attacked this ap­proach, saying it does not take into account weather conditions which lower mileage. But EPA defends the test as the only way to make sure that each manufacturer's car is rated on the same standard. 
Iffixed percentage cuts of I 0 per­cent and 25 percent were applied to the diesel-powered Volkswagen Rabbit, which rated No. 1 in the 198; mileage r'ltings, it would drop its city rating from 50 miles per gal­lon to 45 mpg and its highway average from 67 mpg to 50 mpg. 
The EPA since 1979 has only published the city tlgure in its an­nual rating, because the agency belived the lower tlgure was closer to the number motorists can expect to get. 
However, auto manufacturers are free to use the higher highway figure in their advertising. 
Under the proposed approach, the agency would deflate both figures and automakers would have to use those numbers in their advertising. 
Most domestic automakers said they would support the change, but Volkswagen, which has had the top­ranked car for six straight years, said it would have to review the proposal because it seemed unfair to apply the same deflating factor against all cars. 
Electromagnetic radiation 
EPA research scheduled to end 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A House panel is questioning why the ad­ministration wants to end the En­vironmental Protection Agency's research on the health effects of microwaves and other electromag­netic radiation, even as scientists are finding more apparent links with leukemia and birth defects. 
At the same time, the administra­tion has eliminated funding for a scientific advisory group that over the past decade has coordinated U.S. research on such "non-ionizing radiation." 
The House Science and Technol­ogy subcommittee on natural resources, agriculture research and environment will conduct hearings next month on the issue, said An­thony S. Clark, a technical consult­ant to the subcommittee. 
"Not much is really known about how this type of radiation affe{·ts human behavior or the human immune system," which helps protect the body against disease, Clark said in an interview. 
Electromagnetic radiation is around everyone, every day. It ranges from extremely low­frequency fields found near high­voltage power lines to the very high frequencies used for television, microwave cooking, radar and satellite communications. 
Studies published in recent months have cited higher rates of leukemia among workers regularly 
exposed to intense electrical and 
magnetic fields including power 
linemen, communications workers, 
electronic technicians and power 
station operators in this country and 
in Britain. 
Also, a forthcoming study from Sweden reports that children whose fathers work in high-voltage substa­tions tend to have a higher rate of congenital birth defects. 
Clark said the House panel has asked EPA officials for justification of the agency's t1scal 1984 budget re­quest that proposes shutting down the radio-frequency and microwave program at EPA's Health Effects Research Laboratory in Research Triangle Park, N.C. 
The administration's decision to eliminate all funding in this area for the Health Effects Research Laboratory -which currently costs about Sl.5 million a year -has prompted criticism from career EPA officials. 
Richard Tell ofthe agency's Office ofRadiation Programs said the move was "extremely unfortunate be­cause it's right now that we're proceeding forward with our development of federal guidance in the RF (radio frequency) area. Ifwe ever needed the technical support for defending our guidance, now's the time." 
EPA's proposed "guidance," to be published this fall, will.be the basis for a new federal safety standard for 
Easter Break ..... Daily Rental *Rates starting at $16.99 available March 30 
These rates are non-discountable. 
Cars must be returned to renting location. 
exposure to microwaves, radio 
waves  and  other  forms  of  non­ 
ionizing radiation.  
"Of particular  concern  is radia­ 

tion associated with high-voltage transmission lines," Clark said, ad­ding that in some laboratory experi­ments "animals exposed to frequencies associated with high­voltage transmissions have shown adverse effects." 
"The concern is whether that will happen to people. And the agency (EPA) doesn't appear to be address­ing that particularconcern," he said. 
• • .EPA 
continuedfrom page I 
in the award. 
Todhunter was also criticized for a decision not to regulate formal­dehyde as a suspected cancer­causing agent and for too much socializing over the dinner table with • chemical industry representatives. 
One agency source said that the administration was seeking the resignations now in order to ease the transition to William D. Ruckel­shaus, nominated by Reagan on Monday to succeed Mrs. Burford at the head of the agency he led when it was created 12 years ago. Ruckel­shaus still must be confirmed by the Senate, but he is expected to have little trouble winning confirmation. 
A source said that Lee Verstandig would be named acting ad­ministrator to serve until Ruckel­shaus is confirmed by the Senate. 
Verstandig was assistant secretary oftransportation until Feb. 24, when Reagan picked him among a group of respected career officials from other agencies to try to get the EPA back on track. Verstandig had head ofthe agency's congressional lobbying operation. 
......·--····-····-······-----­
CONTACT LENS i 
Replacements & Spares: 
AS LOW AS 
$14.95 
Call for details 
1 800 255·2020
I 
EYE CONTACT i P.O. Box 7770 !shawnee Mission, KS 66207! 
. .
............................................._..,..._...; 

~~~------~--·--~---~----------~----------------· 
The Observer 
High technology defense idea 'a genuine priority' 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -Senior ad· 
ministration officials acknowledged 
yesterday that President Reagan's vi· 
sion of a high technology defense 
against missile attack is an idea that 
goes back I 0 to 20 years, but they 
contended he has made it a genuine 
priority. 
After a speech announcing the in· 
itiative and a series of follow-up 
briefings, there was still no indica· 
tion from the administration on the 
ultimate cost of the project or the 
direction it might go. 
Meanwhile, there were contlict· 
ing versions as to who first sug­
gested pushing the defensive shield 
concept to the forefront as a way of 
swinging long-range security policy 
away from reliance on massive, 
retaliatory forces of nuclear 
weapons. 
White House spokesman Larry Speakes told reporters under questioning that "largely it was his (Reagan's) idea" growing out of a meeting with theJoint Chiefs ofStaff weeks ago. But senior administra­tion officials, briefing military writers in a separate room, credited the "community of chiefs" as originating the idea. 
One senior official said it was "absolutely impossible" to estimate the cost, at least until after ad· ministration officials had defined the most promtsmg research ap· proaches designed to produce an impregnable anti-missile defense by the end of the century. 
According to the officials, Reagan probably would sign a directive tomorrow setting that process in motion. 
Scientists in and out of govern­ment will lx: brought into the deliberative process, which will be under the direction of the Defense Departmeht, officials said. 
Administration scientific officials indicated the focus ofstudies will be such technologies as high-energy lasers, charged particle beams, microwave devices and what was termed "projectile technology," meaning the shooting of objects to ~ intercept enemy missiles headed for the United States. 
"This is not a new idea, it is not a totally new concept, it goes back 10 to 20 years," said one official. He conceded there has been "no specific breakthrough" in such long· standing research, but said there had been "some remarkable advances" in such key phases as aiming and tracking techniques important to concentrating high-intensity light beams or streams of electrons and other particles against targets such as approaching warheads. 
"We have not had a clearly stated goal until the president spoke last night," the official said. 
As for the fmancing ofthe project, officials said the Pentagon will have to ask Congress for supplemental funds in this fiscal year. It is uncer­tain whether such an add-on in budget requests for fiscal 1984 will be necessarv. the official said. 
The government now spends 
about $I billion a year on ballistic 
missile defense research, officials 
said, about 75 percent of it on the 
more traditional approaches such as 
interception by ground-launched 
anti-missile missiles. 
When asked whether the presi· dent's plans could result in conflict with the 1972 treaty strictly curbing ballistic missile defenses, officials said the question probably will not arise for another five to I 0 years as research progresses and that there will be "ample time to discuss this with the Soviets." 
The official Soviet news agency Tass said deployment of the anti· missile system would violate the treaty. And in a separate reaction, Radio Moscow termed Reagan's speech "bellicose" and accused him of using "new CIA-fabricated figures about the Soviet military poten­tial ... to try to justify.the unprece· dented military spending of the United States." 
Asked about the Soviet response, Reagan replied, "I didn't expect them to cheer." 
The Soviets are spending more than the United States on both ballis­tic missile defense and beam tech· nology, officials said, but they expressed doubts that the Soviets would achieve operational hardware anytime soon. 
Both the United States and the Soviet Union have major research programs in these areas. The Soviet high-energy laser program alone is estimated by the Pentagon at three to five times the U.S. effort. 
The Defense Department's recent report on Soviet military power sug· gested that a space-based, Soviet anti-missile system using high· energy lasers could be tested in the 1990s "but probably would not be operational until the turn ofthe cen· tury." "The president is turning em· phasis from offense to defense," one official said. 
Friday, March 25, 1983 ~ pa~e 5 

The recentsnowfall bas not stopped the tearing down ofthe Old Fieldhouse. Most ofthe historic 
THE OBSERVER/PETE LACHES 
building has already been torn down and bas been carried offby dump trucks. 
• • . Anti-recession 
continuedfrom page 1 
billion to assure that unemployment benefits are not cut off in 27 states and the District of Columbia. Federal officials have been juggling funds for several days to make sure the money did not run out before the legislation was passed. 
Congress made it, apparently, in the nick of time. "We've absolutely run out ofmoney," saidJack Hashian of the Labor Department's Employ· ment and Training Administration, which oversees the various state and federal jobless benefit programs. 
The $4.6 billion plan wound up slightly above the S4.3 billion that White House aides outlined Democratic leaders last month. 
biogenesis
Dance Collective 
~ 
'MOVES' ·····A CONCERT 
8 pm, Saturday, March 26 2:30pm, Sunday, March 27 
Washington Hall Notre Dame $1 Donation 

tfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHHIIIIIIIIIH 
NO Student Union is proud to present. ..... 
~OROBa!GII r:rCIDrn ~rrrrn ~®~~ »m~~arJI 
between 
George Gilder presents the model for Reaganomics author of Wealth & Poverty and 
Robert Reich presents the Democrats' model for economic recovery has appeared on the cover of Atlantic Monthly 
ADMISSION IS FREE 
~.&31 .. a•:lilt~Jma:mnr A'Ull.. &d"»i»lP~ 
•IIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIHHHIHIIIIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIH 
Attention Saint Mary•s students: 
The Features & Editorials Depts. of 

are holding a meeting 
in the basement of Regina. March 28 at 4:00p.m. All interested writers are welcome 

flPPl~LflT ~[]r.iE r.i[]l\l flUR~lflBlE f[]R 
All officer positions on Joint Engineering Council 
Pick up in Dean's office Return forms by 3 pm Tues., March 29 

The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00 P.M. 
a CHANCE to DANCE 
FEATURING 
1\ 
intheCHAUTAUOUA . ~ LaFortune Ballroom 
Friday March 25 9:30·1:30 
ND/SMC~·r requiredL../
____________
___. 
L----------------------------J 
Friday, March 25, 1983-page 6 
The Observer 
• • • Bowsher 

• 
THE OBSERVER/PETE LACHES 
Notre Dame Philosophy Professor Eman Me Mullin opened the 
conference on Evolution and Creation sponsored by the Centerfor 
Continuing Education last evening. 
budget was allocart>d tor rhest" programs in 1960, increasing to --iS percent in 1972. 
In addition. inrerest costs on the national debt consumed 11 percent of the budget. and expendirures for revenue sharing programs for states and localities reached 1 S percent. 
According to Bowsher, the "overall result of these changes has been enormous growth in federal outlays due largely to the increasing role the budget has come to play in redistributing income among the population." 
Lastly, Bowsher claimed that "major changes in sources offederal revenue and an inability of total revenues to rise as a proportion of GNP due to tax rate cuts and erosion of the tax base" have contributed to the deficits. Nearly halfofthe federal revenues are derived from personal income tax, one-third from social in­surance taxes, and 12 percent from corporate profits taxes, he said. 
The relative importance of social 
insurance taxes is due to the fact that 
Social Security, the largest of the 
programs, is self-financing. Social 
Security revenues have increased by 
the same amount as its expenditres 
have grown. Bowsher says, 
however, that, "because tax 
revenues have not kept pace with 
the growth of federal outlays, we 
have had a long string ofdeficits." 
Bowsher outlined a three-fold 
solution to the fiscal crisis. Concern­
ing the social and entitlement 
programs, he said, "Our current 
economic circumstances, unforseen 
by Congress when it indexed these 
programs, warrant some modifica­
tion in the indexing formulas. a 
more systematic review ofeligibility 
criteria, and more stringent means 
of testing to modify participation by 
certain program beneficiaries 
whose own source income levels 
are sufficient to maintain a decent 
living 'standard." 
With defense expenditures, a realistic and stable acqmsitiOn program over a period of years will alleviate the budget problem while yielding benefits to the defense posi­tion, Bowsher observed. "Federal of­ficials must carefully consider 
current and future industrial capacity with an eye toward saving taxpayer dollars when planning buys and setting procurement quan­tities and schedules." 
Bowsher said that a broad con­cept of financial management in the government, one that "encompasses the processes and functions as­sociated with acquiring, managing, deploying, and accounting" for financial resources, is needed. 

"Whenever you feel like smokin' a cigarette. instead of strikin· up a match. strike up the band-the· Larry Hagman Special Stop Smokin ·Wrist Snappin' Red Rubber Band: Get one free ;rom vour American Cancer-Society:· 
continuedfrom page 1 
during the past three years. In com­parison, only 6 percent of personal savings were claimed during the 1960s, while the level approached 36 percent in the 1970s, resulting in what Bowsher termed "economic stagnation." 
Another consequence of the deficits is high interest rates, which eventually cause disadvantages for both export industries and import competitors. In Bowsher's view, this 
"pose(s) the principal threat to a sustained economic recovery." 
Additionally, Bowsher attributes the fiscal crisis to the "Great American Inflation," changes in budget priorities, and the inade­quacy of the rt"venue base. 
Recalling the Vietnam conflict, Bowsher said that the government attempted to fund the war and main· tain social programs while sustain­ing the standard of living. Consequently, the "effort at war and social justice was financed in ways which set in motion the Great American. Inflation -an inflation which, fueled by the oil crises of 1974 and 1978, has bedeviled our economy for a decade and a half." 
Furthermore, social insurance and entitlement programs have grown. In 1982, over 50 percent of the budget was funneled toward income security, social services, retirement benefits, and the like. In comparison, only 28 percent of the 

-~------------------.-~----~--------------­
Editorials 
Friday, March 25, 1983-page 7 
Give until it doesn't hurt 
There is a great deal of charitable and ing to their manifested symptoms. To truly segregated. In essence, we are bound by our central cities and the people who try to al­altruistic activity going on within the Notre solve the problems, one is forced to change ideals to help the poor, but our attitudes also leviate the problems of the poor. We could Dame community. It seems to be part of the the environment and the social system which cause us to keep our distance from them. solve some of the problems if we could make nature ofthis place that the people here show lead to the problems. For most people, there is no conscious at­the majority of the people in the wealthier great concern for their fellow human beings. The situation of these altruistic students tempt to make life more difficult for people neighborhoods show the same type of con­Hardly a day goes by when you are not bom­becomes complicated when one realizes that with a low socio-economic status. Yet, our cern for less afiluent neighborhoods as they barded by worthy causes and organizations as Notre Dame graduates and potential quest for these nicer neighborhoods and the do for their own. We have a tendency to deal which ask for your help in easing the leaders of society, we are the ones who will resulting segregation adds up to a no-win with problems only as they affect us directly, symptoms ofour society's problems. receive the greatest profit from and most situation for poorer areas. The desirable just as we tend to give to charity only in ways vigorously fight to hold onto the system neighborhoods become more expensive, ex­which will not alter our lifestyle significantly. which causes such great ills. It is ironic that clusive, and difficult to reach. As for the In essence, we need a more metropolitan the same people who intensely believe in deteriorating areas, they lose financial view of our problems. They can only grow
RandyFahs 
helping the poor and deprived are those who resources, potential leaders (who flee to the worse ifour easy answer is to move away from also contribute to economic and social dis­suburbs), and desirability, and that con­them into the suburbs.
Friday Analysis 
parity through their elitist attitudes and com­tributes even more rapidly to their decline. Legislation can help create a more equi­fortable suburban lifestyles .• So what is the individual to do? Ifhe stays in table dispersal of resources to help solve the It is one thing to do volunteer work in the a run down area he will be subject to crime, problem of the impoverished areas, but a 
These concerned groups are staffed with most blighted area of the inner-city, but it is declining property values, and lower quality change in our attitudes is the most essential people who genuinely wish to better the lot of quite another to aid these disadvantaged schools. His lifestyle will make him look like a factor. Our charitable activities must be made others. The whole community service and people by moving them into nicer neighbor­martyr, and it will harm his children's chances to ease the suffering of the poor, not merely charity system seems to rest on the idea of hoods, with better schools, and greater for advancement. The individual is powerless act as a salve for our consciences. As long as working out solutions at the grass roots level. chances for advancement. The suburban to halt the decline of a neighborhood when the suburban altruists tend to the poor by day This is admirable, but unfortunately its scope neighborhoods that most of us will seek out the majority of people who can alford to live and flee to the suburbs by night, the ghetto of effectiveness is rather limited. It is impos­and choose to live in are highly insulated and in better areas do so. will continue to beg for help. But, how long sible to cure the ills ofsociety by merely react-racially, socially, and economically This is a rather pessimistic outlook for our will it merely cry out? 
·p~ -0. Box Q 
Second, we received approval, as outlined skin deep, or, more appropriately so, lip­ment cii;;wrts thi5 ini~::ui;.·t as eman;~tin~ in du Lac, to sell these shirts. Besides obtain­service deep. This, the Salvadorean govern­from a position of weakness, the recent im­
Arabs protest 
ing the okay of the Student Union and Stu· ment has happily realized, is all the White portant military advances gained by the dent Activities Office, the An Tostal House needs to hear in order to certifY the FMLN, point directly to the contrary. The DearEditor: Committee voiced no objection to our ef­Congress every six months that great latest proposals were hand carried by no less Sunday is the International Festival. This is forts. As we understand the organizational progress in the respect for human rights has than the Archbishop of San Salvador; Mons. 
a beautiful occasion where the internationl 
structure. the Bookstore Tournament falls been achieved, receiving as a reward for its Rivera y Damas to the three top government students, their host families, and their under the jurisdiction of the An Tostal Com­efforts another sizable amount of military officials who unanimously rejected the American friends celebrate. Unfortunately, mittee. aid. In any other context, bullets and human proposal, advised and supported by the State we will not be there. We are the members of Third, we are not affiliated with the rights would be perceived as conflicting ele­Department. the Arab Student Organization at Notre Tournament, but are just selling a novelty, as ments, one contradicting the other. In the When a signitkant number of countries 
Dame. We will not sing, we will not dance 
many groups did for the Michigan game last case of El Salvador, they go hand in hand. increasingly endorse this option as the most and we will not attend. This is a sign of September. We plan to donate part of the The issue is at best a highly delicate and appropriate for-ending the bloodshed and protest. proceeds to Special Olympics and hope that sensitive one and deserves better than the embarking upon the reconstruction ofEI Sal­
A number ofour members who are of the by raising a large amount, our donation will standard State Department rhetoric it has al­vador, legitimate fears are raised in face of Islamic faith have been using the interna­be substantial. ways received. What lies at the heart of the American intransigence. tional student lounge for their daily prayers. We hope the Notre Dame community will matter is a tormented and oppressed people, What terrible threat does a dialogue be­This doesn't exceed 20 minutes a day. The support us in our venture and especially in and it is with them -and only with them -tween the conflicting parties pose to the 
students hold a key for a year and a half. Un­our goal of at least a $600 donation for Spe­in mind that the needs to be
situation United States? Can the alternative ofanother fortunately, several attempts were made to cial Olympics. Thank you. 
addressed. More bullets and helicopters and -!0,000 lives in three years prove a blessing deprive them of this. This culminated in a 
Stephen N. Romanelli advisers will not solve the fundamental in disguise? sudden decision to change the locks of the 
MBA StudentPresident issues that underlie the civil war. Time is Paulita Pike lounge. This is very strange and very sad. 
running out, but before all hope is lost, the The fact that it comes from the very ad­
Administration must look beyond the smug ministration of the International Student 
cliches of"Soviet int11tration." Editor's Note: The appearance ofletters to Office makes it tragic. Where we expected 
Would that this civil war were that simply the editor is subject to the daily space con­entente, we found dissent, and where we ex­
Halt U.S. aid 
explained. However, in the real world, the straints of the editorial page. Letters should pected tolerance, we found intolerance. 
DearEditor: real issues are not identifiable as black and be under 250 words and address specific It is important to show that this unfor· 
_To anyone who reads the printed word­white; rather, they cover a vast range of dif­issues. They must be typed and bear the tunate state of affairs is far from being a 
be it The Observer or The New York Times -ferent hues and tones colored in poverty, in· address, telephone number, and signature of policy of the University. As a matter of fact, 
it is apparant that El Salvador has once again justice, repression, death, love. the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not we had a very positive response from the Ad­
made the news. For those who have even El Salvador needs, desperately wants acceptable. Reproductions. carbon copies, ministration of the University and we are on 
haphazardly followed the events in that peace. The opposition has repeatedly of or letters addressed to persons other than our way to find a solution. 
-country over the past year or so, another ap­fered to initiate a no condition dialogue with the editor are not acceptable. All letters are 
HanyAmmar 
parent truth that emerges is that politics and the government, and while the State Depart-subject to editing. 
President ofthe 
policy in El Salvador are painfully inter· 
Arab Student Organization 
twined with politics and policy in the United States. It is this all too familiar entanglement that periodically surfaces in the press: on the one
BBall shirts 
side we have the State Department and White House officials trying to convince the DearEditor: American public of the urgent need to I am writing this letter to clarity the confu­drastically increase military aid to El Sal­sion surrounding the short story in Sports vador under the pretense that only in this Briefs (March 23) discrediting the sale of manner will the "reform-minded govern­Bookstore Basketball XII shirts in the dining ment" be able to continue functioning. On halls. Several facts must be brought to the the other side, we have members of the attention of all. Senate (Leahy. Pell, Studds ), Congress First, the MBA Student Government is a (Solarz), along with numerous private or­legitimate non-profit organization serving ganizations, who have consistently and graduate busine~s students. We rely ex­seriously questioned the advisability -on tensively on fund raising in order to stage ethical and political grounds -of maintain­professional and social functions. Our ing a less than questionable government in greatest need is in the spring when gradua-power, whose interest in curbing human . tion programs, as well as a recepton for fami· rights violations and bringing a semblance ofIiy and faculty has to be funded. legal justice to the country has proven only 
"' News Editor..............................Bob Vonderheide
' 
Editorial Board 
NewsEditor.................................Mark Worscheh
Ihe~r=========== 
Editor-in-Chief............................David Dziedzic
Box Q, Notre Dame, LV 46556 
Managing Editor....................Margaret Fosmoe Department Managers 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Executive Editor..............................Paul McGinn
versity of Nmre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect Production/Graphics...........Joseph Musumeci BusinessManager ··············-········Daniel O'Hare
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­
Sports Editor .............................Michael Riccardi Controller ............................................Alex Szilvas
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa SaintMary'sEditor...............Anne Monastyrski AdvertisingManager.......................Chris Owen
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Columndepict FeaturesEditor............................Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, Photo Editor.......................................Scott Bower Systems Manager ...........................Bruce O;ildey
and the free expression ofvaryingopinions on c.ampus, through letters, is encouraged. (219) 239-5303 Founded November 3, 1966 

~----------------------------------.1 
Friday, March 25, 1983-page 8 
--SHOWC 

,,I! 
.j
-
'·! 
,i 
'I 
·. i 
I 
I 
:I 
~t 
; 
. i 
•·1 
Going to confession 
I 
am probably the only priest in the world who examines hts.con­science on the pages ofa newspaper. Evil often disguises itself un­der the forms ofdumbness. I'm not sure ofthe ways in which you have been dumb, but I have a pretty good idea ofmy own stupidities. Maybe we're pretty identical in the mistakes we make. Maybe the prieSt who heard both ofus in confession would say our sins sound similar. If I unburden my soul on the printed page, maybe it will en­courage you to unburden your soul in the privacyofprayer. Thomas the Apostle was skeptical ofthe resurrection until the Lord let him touch the scars. We identify ourselves to the other as family mem­bers when we let ourselves be known as sinnersfor whom Christ has d tied. Now, right away, you get uptight with suspicion. "This priest wants me to go to confession. I have no intention ofgoing to confes­
R•Y• RobettGttffln 

sion. I can tell my sins to God, and He will hear and forgive me. I 
don't need to invite a priest to look at my conscience." 
That sounds really swell to me. But did you ever get the feeling, 
when you're asking God for mercy, that you're talking to yourself? 
Have you ever gotten into a bad habit, like holding onto impure 
thoughts, ofwhich you feel ashamed? You keep telling God that you 
feel ashamed, and that you are going to put limits on your reveries of 
lust. Fifteen minutes later, because you kept feec!!.:}~ yo~~ ire~gina­
tion wiili !IT'.pl,lrit!~s, yuu feel m0re unclean t~1an ever in His sight. 
Yo1~ "Wonder if He's still listening, because in telling Him you were 
sorry, you were not sure ifyou sounded sincere. 
I need a lot offaith to be sure I'm in touch with the hidden God, 
and that my prayers have not gotten lost in the void stretching be­
tween heaven and earth. God left His church with signs through 
whicl-1 His mercy is made visible. One of these signs, or sacraments, 
given to the ministry of the Church, is offc::red through a priest em­
powered with authority to declare the forgiveness ofsins. The 
prodigal son in the parable ofJesus knelt in the dust of the road to confess his waywardness. His father lifted him up, hugged and kissed him, gifted him with a new robe and agold ring, and gave him a great party, as signs ofhis joy at the prodigal's homecoming. The old man could have stayed in the living room, looking through the curtains, 
but it wouldn't have seemed so friendly 
The sacrament of reconciliation celebrates the ritual ofour 
homecoming, after we have seriously left our Father's house. This 
ceremony at our return offers us a badly needed mercy ifwe have 
wandered far from the Father's love. It helps to feel the arms oflove 
around us, saying that we have been anxiously waited for, and ex­
pected home. 
Going to confession is hard. The beauty comes at the end, when 
we realize that because we have been honest with God, He rewards 
us with His peace. Nothing else I know ofdoes me as much good as 
this one-on-one encounter with the priest who lends himselfas an 
instrument in the ministry ofChrist. It is hard to be penitent; it's not 
easy to be a confessor. I wouldn't urge you to go through the pain of 
this sacrament if I didn't know from my own experience, as a Cath­
olic and as a confessor, how much good it does the soul. 
At my age, I have committed many more sins than you have com­mitted at your age. At 57, I recognize how selfishness can leave me uncommitted and unfulfilled as a human being. I understand also how manipulative love can be. Sin leaves me feeling vary shabby, as though I were always getting up to face the dawn in a cheap hotel."A thing ofbeauty is a joy until sunrise," someone has said. The thingof 
beauty can be a body, a bottle, an undigested pizza after midnight, or an ego trip. The first day ofthe rest ofmy life begins with a morning­after filled with regrets or maybe shame. The point is: I should have looked at the harm I was doing, when I decided to make love to my 
thing ofbeauty. 
Most Catholic students are not great sinners by the age of nineteen. That is probably why a number ofthem don't feel a great need for a religion that deals with the effects ofsin. Yet, remember­ing when I was nineteen, I wouldn't have felt that "I haven't loved enough, and I've been indifferent to the needs of the poor" would adequately describe the mischiefin my life. Even at nineteen, I had had experiences that left me feeling soiled. 
Sin is hard-core, mean and destructive, and I hide from myself the 
sins I commit. A Catholic may confess his share in society's sin, but 
fail to mention any sin that is merely personal. Sin includes 
deliberate cruelty, selfidolatry, drunkenness, drug use, fornication, 
impurity, hatred, murder, anger, theft, envy, lying, disobedience, 
pride, corruption ofthe innocent, blaspheming, exploitation, 
sacrilege. Possibly not even the devil has been guilty ofall ofthese 
sins; but is it possible, in this imperfect world, that even young Chris­
tians feel the foreshadowings ofwickedness? 
It is hard to know what has happened to sin as a Catholic ex­perience. Maybe the catechesis for confession hasn't been very good. Maybe the sexual revolution has set aside the traditional norms. The grace ofthe sacrament has more work to do than is being asked for when only personality defects and the neglect of El S'al­vador are offered to the priest for the words of mercy. For myself, I like to take a good look at my life when I know that it's time to go to 
.confession. 
Holy Week is coming. The sins that the Lord died for are my sins. I hate hanging onto guilt that His love tries to take away. Good Friday shows the world as a vengeful, murderous place. I can be better than the world, or as bad as the world. Christ made the way of the cross with my sins on His back; why do I keep them as a burden on my heart? 
I will confess my sins, do penance, and amend my life. Then I will 
offer you the peace of Easter. 

Lasers and 
loud 1 
A
pparently Wednesday provided success from here, and th1e next two a good opportunity to catch the songs, the title track from their heavy metal assault led by perennial newest album,NeverSun-ender, and iron rockers Foghat and Triumph, 
the title song from their successful
because when the lightswent down, 
AlliedForces, kept alive the momen­
the ACC was virtually a packed 
tum and again the crowd rose to its
house. 
feet to cheer the special effects. "Lay 
Foghat, a former headliner, it on the Line" followed. With its handled openers for the show and long music solos and powerful inter­turned in a respectable perforance pretation, it didn't need any special while doing what an opener should lighting to help it along, like some of 
the other songs in their hour-plus 
show. Two songs later, their latest
Pat Beaudlne single, "A World of Fantasy," in­cluded everything from a good drum solo by Gil Moore, a guitar solo by talented Emmett, and the
concertre•iew 
special effects ofdry ice and lasers. Once again the audience rose to thedo: warm ~p the audience for the 
occasion, and although the applause 
main attraction. They worked was aswild as it had been all night, it through many oftheir small hits was weak in comparison to the including "Stone Blue," "Third Time 
frenzied reaction to the last song Lucky," "Live Now Pay Later," and 
before intermission, "When the "Fool for the City," and by the time Lights Go Down." The song that the first few chords ofSlow R.!.1c" bel;an a:;; th~ same !oud roc!:. brok~ 
A!nte bios~ 
w~~~ p!;yed, t~~ diehard ~oghat
I 
animals broke into wild applause which more or less lasted to inter­mission. Their encore, "IJust Want 
1oni Rutheifotd 
to Make Love to You," turned into an ex-tended jam like most ofthe other songs, and after their final bow, it 
features 
was evident that even though one or 
two ofthe renditions of their eleven 
A ndrea Morgan Matthews is a very int< 
song set were less than great, Foghat 
.nson. I had the opportunity to speak \1 
still played a cut above many other 
day afternoon, and I found a very warm,bands of their genre. 
person. It was quite different than what I' Triumph took the stage about a 
a winner ofthe National Association ofl halfhour later and immediately gave 
ging Artists Award Competition for YoU! the audience what it was looking for 
sionals. from the band: an awesome light 
Matthews is considered to be one oft show and loud rock music. Their 
in her age category.(She is 26.) This iss first song,"Too Much Thinking," in­
woman who never even considered sin cluded all that and even though it's 
junior year at Princeton, the university not one of their best efforts, it drew 
graduated with a major in American His good applause nevertheless, while 
Once she discovered an interest in sin leading to "Magic Power," their next 
to spend more and more time with it. U tune. The crowd immediately 
she took a job as a proofreader for a sm recognized this one and was 
company and pursued her singing cared brought to its feet by spectacular 
works for Rockefellar University Press green laser effects and Rik Emmett's 
recitals. playingofhis familiar double necked 
Last fall she served as an apprentice guitar on the studio like rendition. 
Diego Operacompany, and also went to study. Matthews says ofher time in
The concert was well on its way to 
An Americ 
reflection, structured time for exercise -these goals
Bio. Joe Tagg<llt 
more than eluded me. They escaped me. 
So the stage is set for the return of that old friend of mine, the inner slayer. Something sinister within says,features "What's so different, McTaggart? You've been through 
this before. That's right -'true love could have been a 
I'm going to bea happy idiot 
contender.' You could have. You should have. You 
And strugglefor the legal tender 
didn't. Even worse, you now puffup your ego by writing 
Where the ads take aim and lay 
about it, by washing your dirty linen in public. Face it. 
their claim 
Yourlent for '83 is quickly becominga flop, a big zero.'' 
For the heart and soul ofthe spen­
Having been at this place so many times before, I 
der 
realize that avoiding those self-defeating voices and 
And believe in whatever may lie 
fighting back the guilt is the only way out of this muck. 
In those things that money can buy 
There still is a compassionate God. I did, after all, have 
Thought true love could have been 
good intentions. Perhaps shirkers of reform and 
a contender 
a voiders ofdiscipline are still part of the family. Maybe 
Areyou there? 
salvation is precisely what the word says -salvation . 
Say a prayerfor thepretender 
Upon further reflection, I find a connection. My self­
Who started outso young and 
flagellation is self-defeating. I am missing a major point 
strong 
oflent. I have entered the season with a corrupted
Only to sun-ender 
script. Despite my years, my attitude is patently adoles­cent and far from adult, farfrom a properly informed Jackson Browne Christian adult. I have bought into thepurchasing of 
L
the Christian life-good works will buy it all. I've taken ike most good Catholicsand followers ofJesus, I'm a aconsumer's course through this season ofpreparation. pretty well intentioned person. I strive to do the After all these years there still exists in me a tenacious best I can. I work at being charitable, and I attempt to clinging to the worst oflies. And the lie is this: I can pur­give the otherfellow a decent hearing. Generally speak­chase my salvation by good works. Its corollary in lent ing, I suspect I'm like most folks in the Church. I know is: your fasting, and prayer, and quiet time, your good my faults rather well. I know I need God, and I know 
works and your sacrifices, all these will make for you a even more that the Church and what it holds up for im­

·good productive lent. And further -accomplish these itation has a significant effect on me. 
successfully and they shall force the hand ofGod and Thislent is no exception. Like Browne's pretender, "1 cause him to love you even more. And that's not even 
started out so young and strongonly to surrender." Lent enough. The lie continues -you are not redeemed al­is quickly coming to an end and the best of my resolu­ready. Jesus has not saved you through his love on the tions have long since faded with the season. Down the cro.ss. You must win that from him. Beg it ofhim. Earn it tubes go this year's planned advancement in the from him. After all, he does not give freely. spiritual life. Fasting, additional prayer, quiet time for You see, my upwardly-mobile-good-intentions-eth•..: 

.-------------------------------------------~---------------------------­
The Observer Features Section 
Friday, March 25, 1983--page 9 
into a standard rowdy talk between Triumph banner was raised, it was the drummer .and the audience, and clear that the group had completed ended with a phenomonal spectacle another successful stop on their oflighting, explosions, and smoke Never Surrender Tour. that was the climax ofthe evening. Overall, the main attraction put 
The frenzied applause carried together a great showoflightingand over to their first encore, an average music, but some songs were version ofjoe Walsh's "Rocky Moun­noticeably absent and definitely tain Way," and although some ofthe could have been substituted for a fervor was lost, the encore still drew few of their long guitar or drum good response. "Fight the Good solos. Among these are "I Can 
Fight" was the final song. Excite­Survive," "Say Goodbye," and a per­ment was generated, but not be­sonal favorite of mine, "Hold On." cause ofany special effects or the However, even though the music music. Halfway through it, a crazed had its ups and downs, the show, as a fan with apparently deviant things whole, was rarely short ofspec­on his mind, rushed a puzzled Mike tacular. Levine on bass and needless to say, the roadies forcibly removed him before he could decide what to do. The song finished minutes later un­der the usual applause, and a~ the 
grateful for the expert advice and herfirst hand impres­sion ofEurope, but felt that her voice category would be more in use here, so she decided to return to the States. 
Matthews enjoys singing because it is a "kind oflife­style where you never stop learning. It's an open ended proposition." 
Her style includes opera and recitals, but she never mixes the two. Her program tonight is a recital contain­ing "art songs," whose strength lies in detail. 
Unlike musicians, Matthews says she doesn't spend a lot oftime practicing. Although practice time varies with her schedule, she does so about one and a half hours every other day. She also receives one voice les­son and one coaching session a week. 
This is an odd and perhaps too briefsketch ofsuch a proclaimed singer. Sometimes words are not enough. Alii can suggest is that you go and listen to her tonight at 8 p.m. in Saint Mary's Little Theater. Her performance is part ofthe college's voice festival. There is no charge and I think you will enjoy it. 

nwGyoflent 
has a strange hold on me. Enough work will produce al­doing, in my attempts at growth and discipline, I've most anything you want. It's an American way oflent. Its missed the basic message. The means are not the ends. creeping roots have entered the soil ofmy soul. Its Lent and its call to reform are not an end in themselves poison is killing the shoots ofnew growth planted in my as if all is lost when some of the means are not adhered heart long ago by the Lord himself. Oh, how subtlely I to strictly. Lent leads somewhere. And the point ofits have placed the value on the means and not the end. But completion is gift and not result. It is gift and not result Christ bas died; Christ is risen; Christ will come again. no matter how stoic and sustained the discipline. I am "Rend your hearts and not your garments," says the encouraged. Lord ofthe season. For me, though, the season of I am encouraged especially by a powerful dialogue at preparedness has become the season ofpurchase. Alms the end ofjesus' life. It is simple, straightforward and and fasting and works ofmercy have, in my heart, profound. It is found in a response to the good thief. become thegarments I have rent, the garments I have Here we have on public display one who was judged to wanted to rend. I have intended to do all the right things have been more than a scoundrel, one who supposedly for the wrong reason, and I know this now by the way I was guilty of more than good intentions but little ac· have evaluated my lenten resolutions. I have not been tion. Indeed, he was being put to death for his crimes. "successful." As lent draws to an end I evaluate myself a Faced withJesus and his apparent failure, faced with failure in its scope. I have not done the good works, and, Jesus and his own poverty, faced withJesus the good afterall, good works are the way I tell myself I am ac· thiefcaught the message and rent his heart. And Jesus 
ceptable in God's eyes. told him, "This day you shall be with me in paradise." Hear me out. I am in no way denegrating the univer­There was not one mention ofgood works. sal call oflent to prolonged prayer, and bodily 
Alas, lent need not be in vain for me and others like discipline, and generous almsgiving. Without these my me. The key is found in the first pronouncement ofthe brothers and sisters do not benefit from my growth in season. It has to do with the heart. It is always a grace ­
holiness and the Christian life. The end ofall lenten rarely an accomplishment. mortification and discipline is that I be changed and that more love enter the world through me. And when Even now says the Lord. more love enters the world through any humbled Return to me with your whole gesture on my part,/ experience the love ofGod in the heart, very execution ofthose deeds. With fasting, and weeping, and 
But my point now is that having evaluated my paltry mourning. growth this lent, I have noticed also a sublte but deadly Rendyour hearts, notyour gar· message. In the very willing of my good intentions I ments have connected performance with grace, accomplish· And return to the Lord, your God. ment with salvation, success with acceptance. I have in­dentified lenten discipline with a corresponding 
Joel 2:12-13
change ofheart, the central theme of the whole oflent. Alas, that way of thinking is a trick, a subtle temptation I tried once more to return to him with good works. with significantly powerful results. In the process of Funny thing, I forgot the heart and passed over him. 



•THEATRE Either to celebrate the new spring season, or to shake the winter­time blues, this weekend could be just the time to try a trip to Elkhart. Friday, Saturday, and Sunday are your last chances to view the Elkhart Civic Theatre's presentation ofthe Cole Porter musical, "Anything Goes." This stage classic features such hits as, "You're the Top," "Friendship," and ofcourse the show's title tf:!'=k. Tht: curtain rises at 8:15p.m. F..:~ay ~.nd Saturda~ anc! ~ ;:..m. Sunday at th.e R!!:;~~~ ' Oper:! !-!~u;;c in Elkhart. Reservations may be made by calling 848­4116 between 3 and 8 p.m. 
•DANCE , This is definitely the weekend for the spectator as many concerts, recitals and performances dot the calendar. Among these is the Abiogenesis Dance Collective's spring concert, "Moves." The per· formance will include a variety ofdance styles and choreographers. Premiering in the show is the company's assistant director Mitch Werner's MTV inspired "Zero Bars" set to the music ofGary Nueman. Audiences can experience this dance group at Washington Hall on Saturday at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30p.m. A $1 donation will be requested at the door. As an encore to Wednesday night's performance by the Darpana Dancers of India, the India Association ofNotre Dame presents for the first time in northern Indiana, "Ramayana," a Bharatanatyam dance-drama by Natyak.tl Ala yam. The Concord Performing Arts Center, Elkhart is the place to see this fourth century B.C. epic from India. Admission for this Saturday's, 6 p.m. performance is S6 for adults and 53 for children under 12. For tickets ad details call277­4663. •MUSIC Perhaps to flaunt their tans (they recently returned from a concert in Disney World) or more likely to share their euphonious voices with the community, the Glee Club has scheduled itsspringconcert for tonight at 8:15p.m. in Washington Hall. A packed house is ex· pected so plan on arriving early. Sunday is a big day for classical music lovers. At 4 p.m. the Univer­sity's Department ofMusic is sponsoring a faculty chamber music recital in the Annenberg Auditorium. That evening at 8:15 p.m. the department features Denise Kuehner in a graduate cello recital in Crowley Hall. Both recitals are free to the public. Notre Dame does not have the corner on musical performances this weekend as Saint Mary's highlights it with its Voice Festival. Various programs are scheduled throughout the weekend such as master classes, lectures, workshops and a student voice recital. Guest artists include the celebrated soprano, Andrea Morgan Mat­thews, recipient ofthe National Association ofTeachers ofSinging Artists Award for Young Professionals and Stanley Sonntag, author of the internaionally-acclaimed book, The Art ofSong Recital-In recognition of Palm Sunday, the 66-member Concert Choir of the Unversity ofWisconsin-Madison will give a Palm Sunday perfor­mance at 4:30p.m., March 27 in the Northside Auditorium on the In­diana University at South Bend campus. The choir performs choral literature spanning five centuries. Tickets for this concert which is co-sponsored by the IUSB division of Music and the First Christian Church ofSouth Bend are 52 each and can be purchased through IUSB, at the church or on Suunday at the box office. •ART Music is not the only fine art on display at Saint Mary's this weekend. Continuing in the Moreau, Little Theatre and Hammes galleries this weekend is the Student Senior Comprehensives Art Show. Five seniors: Kelly Ayotte, Mary Cachat, Marianne )one!>, Karen McCarter and Heather Quinn will exhibit their works in a variety of media. The Saint Mary's galleries, located in the Moreau 
Fine Arts Building are open 9:30a.m. to noon and 1-3 p.m. on Friday and 1-3 p.m. on Sunday. There is no admission charge. 
•MOVIES 
And even ifnone of these new and culture filled acuvtties entice you, there is always the old stand-by -the Friday Night Film Series. Tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium the Notre Dame· Saint Mary's Communication and Theatre Department presents the eighth film in its series, "Tragedy ofa Ridiculous Man." A Bernardo Bertollucci production, this Italian flick is accompanied by English subtitles. The plot concerns an heirwho is captured by a band ofter­rorists in this, Bertollucci's latest commentary on the tragedies and absurdities ofliving in a late technological society. 
•CHAUTAUQUA 
"One-two·three, one-two-three ... Dust offyour ball gown and press your tails; this is the weekend for all would-be Freds and Gin· gers. On Saturday night the Chapel Choir is sponsoring a waltz ball. From 8:30p.m. to whenever, Chatauquawill be swingingand waltz· ing and rhumba-ing and rocking. Besides traditional ballroom music, Latin, rock, disco and big band soundscan be heard for only a S 1 ad·· mission charge. Semi-formal attire is required. 
And ofcourse, despite wind and rain and snow and sleet (even in spring), A Chance to Dance returns! The band Apex highlights tonight's dance sponsored by the sophomore class in cooperation with H0ward Hall. Chatauqua will be rocking from 9:30-1:30 p.m. Admission is S 1, as ifyou didn't already know. 
~F4JtEE£BW 


Friday, March 25, 1983-page 10
Sports Brie s 
::~B~y~~;b::e~O~b~s:t=~~e;r~a~n~d~~;b:e~A~s:s~o:c:ia:t~e=d~P;r:e:s:s::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::r:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Bookstore Basketballwill hold its mandatory cap­tains' meeting Monday, March 28, at 7 p.m. in the library Auditorium. At least one representative of each team must be present. Teams which have not paid the J4 registration fee must bring the money to this meeting. -The Observer 
The Knute Rockne Mass and Breakfast, com­memorating the 52nd anniversary ofthe coach's tragic death, will be held this Sunday, March 27. The Notre Dame Club of Saint Joseph Valley, which sponsors the event, invites all ND-SMC students, faculty and staff. The Mass will begin at 8:15a.m. in the South Din.ing Hall. The breakfast will begin at 9: 1 5 am. The guest speaker at the breakfast will be Tony Roberts, NO football play-by-play announcer for the Mutual Radio Network. Co-captains Blair K.iel and Stacy Toran will attend also. Special guests include members of the Rockne family and former Rockne players. The cost of the breakfast is $4.25 for adults and 53.25 for children. For reservations, call the NO Alumni Office (239-6000) or Chris Twist (evtnings at 272­0164). -The Observer 
The SMC Softball Game against Grace College scheduled for tomorrow has been cancelled. It will be rescheduled fc:: 11 later date. The Belles next game is at home April 7 with Val­
paraiso. ~ Tbe C'!!~~ver. 
Walk-on tryoutsfor the 1983-84 Notre Dame football team will be held tomorrow at 11 A.M. on Cartier Field. Notre Dame students are invited to come and participate. -The Observer. 
The NCAA Mideast Regional semifinals took place last night in Knoxville, Tenn. Melvin Turpin scored 16 points to lead 12th-ranked Kentucky over No. 5 Indiana 64-59. A late Hoosier rally gave the Wildcats a scare before Charles Hurt hit two free throws with 21 seconds left giving Kentucky the five point edge. Louisville earned a spot in the regional title game by edging No. 9 Arkansas 65-63 on a Scooter McCray tip-in at the buzzer. Louisville and Kentucky meet tomorrow for the first time since the 1959 NCAA tournament. -AP 
The Holy Cross Softball Tournament 
originally scheduled for this weekend has been postponed and res­cheduled for the weekend of April 15-17. Teams are reminded to turn in their complete rosters and registration money before Easter break. Ifthere are any questions, contact Ed Cunningham at 31 76. ­
The Observer 
The Notre Dame Invitationaltrack meet will 
take place tomorrow at 12:30 on Cartier Field. Various teams from the Midwest will compete in the annual event that officially opens the home outdoor schedule for the Irish. -The Observer. 
The ND women's basketball team nailed 
down verbal committments from two high school seniors, both for­ward/centers. Mickey Skieresz, 6-0, from Westlake, Calif., will add inside strength to the Irish lineup. Skieresz averaged 17 points and 10 rebounds her senior year while earning MVP honors in her South­ern California league. Adding quickness to the running game will be 5-11 Lavetta Willis of Wayne, Mich. Willis earned all-league, all­Catholic, and all-metro honors while averaging 18 points and 10 boards at Ladywood High School. Willis was also accorded first-team all-state honors. Irish coach Mary DiStanislao is still hoping to gain at least one more committment -preferably a center-before the April 13 deadline for recruiting. -The Observer. 
The NCAA &ndwest R~gional action was in Odgen, Utah last night. Senior guard Dere~k Wittenburg topped all scorers with 27 points as North Carolina State routed Utah 75-56. Despite having Ralph Sampson in foul trouble for most of the game, Virginia was able to beat Boston College 95-92. Sampson had 19 points and 11 rebounds in only 20 minutes ofplaying time. -AP 
In NIT quarterfinal action Wake Forest easily 
defeated South Carolina 78-61 on a 1 7 point performance by Danny Young in Greensboro, N.C. Forward Bernard Thompson scored 26 points leading Fresno State in a 76-67 win over Oregon State. In Lincoln, Neb., Texas Christian University fell to Nebraska 67-57. 
AP 
Men's tennis hopes to 
•
Improve 
By MARK B.JOHNSON 
Sports Writer 
"Fired-up and hungry" is how 
Notre Dame's varsity men's tennis 
team characterizes itself as it looks 
to snap a three-game losing streak 
and improve upon its 9-3 record this 
weekend. The Irish travel to Muncie 
Saturday and Bloomington Sunday 
to do battle with improved Ball State 
and Indiana University squads. 
"We've got something to prove 
because we've lost three 
straight,"said senior captain and No. 
1 singles player, Mark McMahon. "So 
we are looking forward to playing 
these two schools." 
Under the watchful eye of Coach 
Bill Richards, the Cardinals will field 
a young, but balanced, team as they 
reiUi"i: 0!llV five players from last 
year's 14-7 squaci. ~~ Irish were 
re~ponsib!e for one of those io;;~s, 
as they topped the Cardinals 6-3. 
Because of a bit of politics and a Big Ten avoidance of independent schools, Fallon is more in the dark about what to expect from Indiana. After trying to avoid playing the Irish last season -and eventually losing 6-3 at their hands -Coach Steve Greco and his Big Red are rebuild­ing. 
Notre Dame is hoping to better last year's 3-5 slate against Big Ten competition, and a win against In­diana would certainly be a step towards attaining that goal. 
Classified office hours: Notre Dame -9 
a.m. to 4:30p.m. Saint Mary's-noon to 3 p.m. Deadline for next-day service is 3 p.m. All ads must be prepaid, either in person or through the mail. We reserve the right to edit objectionable 
Classifieds 
material. 
NOTICES 
.······--· -·----r~~~'NG~··-····~---~!-.. 
Jackie Boggs 684-8793 
Save on natural v1tam1ns. Free catalog. Hill House. SUite 427. 495 Old York Road. Jenkintown. PA 19046 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
TYPING IN MY HOME (resumes. leUers. reports. term papers, etc.). NEAT, AC­CURATE WORK. REASONABLE RATES. 233-7009 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING VERY REASONABLE RATES CALL 287-5162 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! CALL (312) 742-1142, EXT. 7316. 
Expenenced Typ1st. Mrs. Bedford. 288­2107. Hours Mon. thru Fn. 8 am to 5 pm. 
Be a Cert1f1ed Horse's A-·, Beaut1fut Wall Cert1f1cate and Wallet Card. Only $3.00. Postpaid. DAD's.Box 822S, Centralia, ll­linols62801 
CLOTHES MADE TO MEASURE TAILORING AND ALTERATION Fabnc cost, plus tabor Call232·7175 
S.A.D.D. General meeting for Students Against Dr· .nk Driving this Sunday, Mar 27 at 2:00pm In Keenan's Hofman Lounge. All are welcome. 
Everyone IS going CUCKOO!!! "ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST." April7,8.9 
LOST/FOUND 
Lost-To the young lad1eswho are holdmg my LAUNDRY CARD hostage· I need my laundry. PLEASE RETURN. NICK x8232 
LOST CANON AE-1 CAMERA BEFORE BREAK. WILL PAY REWARD. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALL 283-1388 ASKFORAL. 
WHY DID YOU TAKE MY GLOVES OUT Of LOCKER x151 AT MOREAU SEMI­NARY? REGARDLESS OF WHY YOU DID IT I WILL PAY THE RANSOM. PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT 1649. THANK YOU. 
Who lost a gold bracelet on th1s campus? Call R1ck at x 1208 
··fOR RENT­
FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND 277· 3604 
.. c.. 
Student Rental. 5-bedroom home $420 mo. 233·6779. 
902 N. NOTRE DAME-4 BEDROOMS. FULLY FURNISHED. 9 MONTH LEASE, GUARANTEED UPPER LIMIT ON HEAT, $335/MONTH 684·0933 (LOCAL CALL) 
4Rent 4 Bedroom House $250 mo. all utilities 1ncluded June or Sept. Call 319­322-8735 Pany 
Houses for rent -Furn1shed. I m1. from campus. 4-9 bdrm 2 baths Call2773461 
SODOM & GOMMORAH FOR RENT!! CLOSE TO CAMPUS, CHEAP CALL JOHN at 239-6244 OR 283-8657 
STAYING IN SOUTH BEND THIS SUM· MER? 3 bedroom house to sublet. 2.5 m1les from campus 1n safe neighborhood. Rent very reasonable Call 234·1713 af­ter6·00. 
WANTED 
NEED RIDE TO/FROM CLEV AREA FOR EASTER CALL PAM 8851 
Need R1de to Syracuse/Binghamton NY area for Easter 3516 
Need nde to JERSEY for Easter. Call Pat at1068 
NEEOED R1de/R1ders to Boston over Easter. Leav1ng 3-30. Call Tom x6802 
NEED RIDE TO NYC OR Lf AREA FOR EASTER BREAK.Can leave any t1me Wed the 30. Call CHRIS 3069 
Need R1ders Roch. Syr. UtiCa. NY for Easter Leav Tues. aft.(3-29) XPaul6981 
NEED RIDE to Maryland or D. C. area for Easter break. Will share driving & $$­please call Michele. 3793. 
rm going to Galesburg. IL. for Easter. 1"11 take nders to the the Quad City area. Call Bob 8276 
R1de needed to ANN ARBOR 3/31 Jeff 6756 
NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN NEW JER­SEY OR AREA FOR EASTER CAN LEAVE TUES AFTERNOON OR LATER RETURN MONDAY, 4/4. PLEASE CALLJANET AT 4571 
NEEDED RIDE/RIDERS TO PHILLy OR WILMINGTON AREA FOR EASTER BREAK CALL MARK x6802 
NEED RIDE TO NEW YORK CITY AREA FOR EASTER CALL MIKE 277-6880 
Need nde to Syr . Ut1ca. Schenectady or Albany. NY for Easter Can leave noon Wed (3-30) Call Kath1 5409 SMC 
Need nders for central PA Leav1ng on the even1ng of March 30 (Wednesday). Call Steve at 8727. 
BUFFALO!! Desperately 1n need of a nde to BUFFALO for Easter break. Can leave by Tuesday noon Please call Jack at x8649 
REALY NEED RIDE TO DETROIT AREA FOR EASTER BREAK. CAN LEAVE THUR. MORNING. I WILL SHARE USUAL. PLEASE HELP CALL MAUREEN 7978. 
RIDE NEEDED TO NORTHERN NEW JERSEY/NYC (OFF 1-80) for Easter Can leave Wed 3-30. return Tues. 4·5. CALL BILL AT 3095 or 8573 
NEED RIDE TO RALEIGH.NC FOR EAS· TER CALL KEVIN AT 1649 
NEED PIDERS to Manchester NH, Bos· ton area for Easter Leavtng Tuesday 3/29 at 4PM. Call Kev1n 1441 
Need nde to DC tor break. Please call Karen at7939. 
Need RIDE to CLEVELAND for Easter Call Jack 1588 
Need RIDE TO PURDUE FOR EASTER BREAK. WILL SHARE $$. CALL JIM 8721 
NEED RIDE TO MILWAUKEE can leave thurs a.m ERIC 3242 
NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND & BACK CAN LEAVE THURS AFTERNOON CALL LOUIS AT 1547 THANK YOU. 
need nde to Staunton. VA. for Easter can leave anyt1me Thurs call Steve 1855 
Need nde to Loogootee. Call Manlyn. 1269 
FOR SALE 
USED, OUT·OF·PRINT BOOKS BOUGHT. SOLD. SEARCHED. ERASMUS BOOKS. 1027 E. WAYNE.• · ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY­JEFFERSON INTERSECTION 
FOR SALE 1980 "Yamahopper MC 
Low m1teage. Excellent cond1t1on-$300 
Please call Dan at x6824 
On Fndays from 3 00 to 6 00 p.m. you'll 
save money at Pandora's Happy Hour 
i:l'g Discounts on all new and used books 
We carry fino Art Pnnts and many other 
things vou won't fmd anywhere else shop 
us and save 937 so. Bend Ave. 
for sale tbm seletnc typewnter tnhngual 
ball excellent condit1n about$ 290 call dr. 
pa1va 239-7796 or 2880994 
PERSONALS ·I 
APEX ROCKS THE CHAUTAUQUA 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM FRI NITE 
FROM 9:30 TIL 1 30 
Marianne Jones and Heather Quinn Congratulatton on completing your cam­ps. Hope you ltave a great open1ng. We're all pulling tor you! Good luck·Your fans 
HEY SMC JUNIORS! GET INVOLVED AND SIGN UP FOR AN INTERVIEW TO BE A SENIOR CLASS COMMISSIONER! SIGN-UPS IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES MARCH 22-25 IF ANY QUESTIONS CALL MURPH (51511 OR DENISE (5173). 
NEED TO LOSE WEIGHT? CALL JANET 
283·6808 for liow to· 1nfo! 
banter-to tease or make tun ofin a play­
ful, good-natured manner 
Boston! R1de needed this weekend to Boston or Spnngf1eld area. Call Colleen at 283­8641. 
I need a nde to Ph1lly-Trenton.N.J area for Easter Can leave Wed. afternoon. Call Maureen at 4320 I need a nde to Boston for Easte; break. Willing to share costs. dnv1ng. and food. Call Jeb at 8641. Thanks. 
Need nde to DELAWARE for break. Can leave Wed. Will share the usual. Call Ed at 8639. 
SENIORS!!!!! DON'T MISS THE SENIOR COCTAIL DANCE THIS FRI MARCH 25!!!!!!! 
SENIORS!!!!! DON'T MISS THE SENIOR COCKTAIL DANCE THIS FRI MARCH 25'!! 
. SENIOR COCKTAIL DANCE THIS FRIDAY. MARCH 25--DONT MISS 
IT!!!!!! 
Ang1e. Doug, Brenna, John. K1eth. Phyl· lis. M1tch, Kathy, Steve. and Norma. 
Thanks tor QIVtng me so many marketable fOb Skills! lfs been great work1ng w1th you, but I st1ll don't do Mylar 
Your Ma1d 
Julie. HOOSiers, WHY?? O.J. 
To the 2 Feckless Beavers from the W1tey V1llage of 1d1ots: That welcome ·home gave us uncontrolable goops and YOU DIE for 111 De Salamander say, .. De Cat· f1sh say you 2 Go·Go G~rls blow THE DOORS offa me, even 1f you do look like pregnant rollerskates · 
From S.P.E.C. ( Soc1ety for the Preservation of Embryo Children) 
P.S. Your Boom·Mu lesson for today IS How to Dte! 
Need nde to Blacksburg. VA or nearby for Easter Can leave 3/30 Call Heaher at 8151 
Dear Room 201 Lauderdale B11tmore. 
Thanks for the St. Pault"s but were Goebel's gtrls. we·u all have to get togeth­er and play Euker whtle danctng on the beds, 11sten~ng to Gate s box. burn1ng holes 1n the TV set. and eat1ng Frosted Flakes w1th D·s Todd and The Soc1al But· tartly at the Poop Deck Lounge (w1th Lower Deck OtSCO) 
Love. Room 204 Lauderdale B11tmore 
1mag1ne th1s· THE Notre Dame-SAINT MARY'S OBSERVER. featunng YOU! Yes. you can become a "part of thiS hallowed publicatiOn. THE OBSERVER IS 1n search of wnters for 1ts Features and Ed1tonats Departments. Monday. March 28 THE OBSERVER Will be took1ng 1n the basement of Reg1na Hall where these departments w111 be holdmg a meet1ng for all those 'nterested1n wntlng at 4:00p.m 
ATTENTION JUNIORS· ·LAFORTUNE OLYMPICS.. 1n game room thiS Sat. from 1·00 to 4:00pm. PRIZES awarded tor v1deo games. p1ng-pong. pool. and euchre tourney. Come and jotn the fun. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOHN LOGAN!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOHN LOGAN!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOHN LOGAN!! enJOY 11 but be good!! 
ATTN LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS ·DANCE TONIGHT 7 P M. BE THERE 
Megan, we had a mtlhon ttmes more fun than you all. SHAFT MAN!! 
Hey Buc-buc fam1ly. WELL EXCUSE US for acccepttng your tnvttatton Oh yeah. HAPPY ST PATRICK'S DAY I 
S.A.D.D. General meeting for all interested in Students Against Drunk Driving Sun­day, Mar 27 at 2:00pm In Keenan•s Hol­man Lounge. All welcome. 
Are you a DIVER w1th a great body(x50)? For DOUBLE TROUBLE meet the BOB· SEY TWINS GONE MAD Call CHRIS x7830 tor a MEAN MASSAGE. and USA X2244 
ATTENTION SENIORS. SENIORS, SENIORS,; LAST CHANCE to pur­chase SR. FORMAL BIDS is THIS SUN­DAY March 27, 3:30 to 5:30 PM. in Lafortune and LeMans. 
St Edward's Hall 
Presents 
ONE FLEW OVER 
THE 
CUCKOOS NEST 
Apnt7.8.9 
SPM 
Washington Hall 
AdmiSSIOn $1.00 
I-lOLL Y UNGNOWSKI. 
Well how rlor.s tl feel to have your name tn 
oold pr:nt? I JUSt wan~ed to tell you that I 
f1ope you 11avo ;~; .:]~eat 21st birthday!! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
Love. julie 
Laura. Apolog1ze tor 'lot ·,..rttlng Have a won­derful hte 
z 
My dearest. 51lhest wart Happy 1 and 1/2 years!! I tt\1nk we re headtng up on the ROLLERU)I\STER ...and we can stay there' Will you help me? I love ~ou gobs! 
·toOIS19 lipS 
Happy 21 B1rth6ay to R1ck Spnngheld s no. 1 fan Jul1e QUinn! Love. C B .. L.B. and KT. 
There s nolhtng ltke a ltttle active banter­Ing 

·­ Haircut Shampoo Blowdry  
&Condition Reg. $15  
NOW $8.50 with coupon  
54533 Terrace Lane,  Haircut only $6 with coupon  
South Bend (Across from Martin's on S. R. 23)  (Hair must be washed.day of cut)  
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30  
THURS., FRI., 8:3().8:30 SAT. 8:30·5:30  272·0312 277·1691 ($6 offer only applies to male patrons)  


Friday, March 25, 1983-page 11
The Observer 

continued/rom page 16 
he focused on his role in the dilem­ma. 
KYou wonder if it's a matter of what you as a coach have done," he says. "You examine yourself as part of the reason. Would it be better for the program ifyou dropped out and new blood was brought in?" 
IfSmith did decide to leave Notre Dame, there are very few palces he would want to go to. 
"While you're working at Notre Dame, you enjoy it and you feel comfortable," he says. "You're doing something you believe in. I'm limited as to where I could go and still feel this way." 
• • • Spring 
continuedfrom page 16 
One of the best-stocked positions for the Irish will be at the wide receiver and flanker positions. junior joe Howard (45 receptions for 987 yards in two years) returns at split end with solid backup sup­
port  from  sophomore  lettermen  
Milt Jackson.  
Sophomore  Mike  Haywood  

started the last five-game last year at flanker and latched onto 13 passes for I28 yards. Sophomore speedster Van Pearcy, who also started five games last year while catching eight passes for 64 yards. is also back. He will, however, sit out the spring ses­sion because of his involvement with the track squad. 
At quarterback, the major compe­tion will be for the backup role be­tween sophomore Todd Lezon and junior Scott Grooms. Blair Kiel returns for his fourth year of calling signals for the Irish after completing 118 of 219 passes for 1,273 yards. Questioned in the past for his com­petence, Kiel's value to the team was especially evident in the late season losses to Penn State and Air Force last year. 
Seven starters return on defense. Three-year lettermen Stacey Toran and Chris Brown head the secon­dary along with two-year starter joe johnson. Senior john Mosley and sophomore Pat Ballage are expected to battle for the final position. 
Former Moeller All-American's Rick Naylor and Mike Larkin return at their respective outside and weakside linebacker positions. The junior Larkin was second to Zavag­nin in tackles last year with 112 and had a team leading eight sacks. Three-time lettermen contributed 45 tackles last year. Sophomore Tony Furjanic, considered perhaps the top linebacker prospect in the nation two years ago, appears for now to be the heir apparent to Zavagnin's middle-linebacker role. 
junior Mike Golic is the top prospect for Griffith's end position after having lettered at that position for the past two years. Other ex­perienced playe~ returning include senior Mansel Carter, juniorjoe Bars and sophomore Shawn Heffern. 
Junior Mike Gann, a key to Notre Dame's Gold Rush last year, returns at flip tackle. He will have to sit out spring drills, though, in order to rest the knee surgery from last Novem­ber. Sophomore Eric Dorsey, who started against Navy and Southern Cal last year, will also provide a stiff challenge at the position. 
The contain tackle position that was left vacated by Clasby has soph­omore lettermen Greg Dingens as the top prospect for now. 
But as a seventh-string quarter­back namedjoe Montana raised him­self up in spring practice eight years ago to a starting position later in the fall, so too there may be lurking a hidden talent on Cartier this spring that may become the talk ofthe fall. 
The next month of spring drills should determine that -and much 
The one thing certain in Smith's 
mind is that he does not really want 
to leave the sport or the people in­
volved in it. 
"The only reason I'm coaching is 
because I love hockey and I like 
kids," he says. "I get a great deal of 
satisfaction from a kid coming in 
here and saying, 'I've got a problem. 
Can you help?' I get -a kick out of 
being able to help them." 
The input from the team members 
is important to Smith. He has been 
attempting to pick up clues from the 
team as to their feelings. Otherwise, 
Smith's input will come from what 
Corrigan has to say. 
IfCorrigan indicates that the team 
will remain at a non-varsity level for 
several years, it will be a negative 
factor in Smith's considerations. On 
the other hand, if Corrigan can tell 
Smith that the team will return to 
varsity status -no matter what 
divisional level -in the near future, 
Smith would be more postive about 
staying at Notre Dame. 1 Unfortunately, no one knows 
what is going to happen after next 
season. During his january press 
conference, Corrigan could not 
guarantee that the team would only 
be a club for one season. He would 
not put adefinite time period on t the 
club status. 
"Notre Dame will not be a club 
sport forever," Corrigan said. "We 
had to do this now for those players 
who want to transfer." 
One very serious attempt to set a 
date was made over the last 
weekend of the regular season. Irish 
captains Mark Doman and john Hig­
gins, along with some former cap­
tains and assistant coach Terry 
Fairholm, met with Fr. Edmund P 
joyce, Executive Vice-President of 
iKnigltts oftl}t C!Iastlt 
SUMMER STORAGE SPACE 
Special discount for ND/SMC students (Sx lOspace $18.80permonth) 
CALL 259·0335 to RESERVE SPACE SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka 
Security Patrol Checks 

/ I 
( 
// ,/ 
the University. 
"The decision was made relatively quickly," Doman said. "We propose to seek a solution -to find some al­ternatives to non-varsity hockey." 
After the talk, Fairholm released an official statement. "We were in­terested in opening adialogue about the current status ofhockey at Notre Dame, and the possibility of return­ing hockey to the Division I level," the statement read. "It was a con­structive meeting, but it is far too early to say much else." 
The Monday following the weekend meetings, Fairholm spoke about the situation at the annual hockey banquet. His tone was much more optimistic than the initial statement. 
"We had a very positive meeting with Corrigan on Sunday," Fairholm said. "We talked about providing guidelines for raising the money needed for the program. Division I hockey will be back at Notre Dame, not next year, but possibly after that." 
That is where the hockey situa­tion stands right now. For the 1983­84 season, Notre Dame will be club team. Who will coach the team, and whether Smith will stay at Notre Dame at all, remains a mystery, one that only Smith can solve. 
As for anything past next year, there are no definite plans. Accord­ing to Smith, if Fairholm is right in his prediction, ifthe administrtion is cooperative, the future could be bright for Notre Dame hockey. 
"To be a Division I team, we have to have a stronger committment than we have had in the past," he said. "Wecan compete, but we can't be at the top ofthe heap without that committment." 
• • . Hockey 
"This reminder is brought to you by your friendly neighborhood yearbook staff." 


One man tells another 
·n~rts 
S!cottsdale Maii!University_Park 291-2808 277-4835 Downtown ... 289-5521 
Notre Dame SENIOR FORMAL 
Tuxedo rental and more at Gilbert's Men's Store ... at the lowest prices in town ... plus, you get your first choice! Check us out ... 
--fUXEDO $38.00 ---JAILS$42.00
Sign ups during dinner at the dining halls March 24, 25, 28, 29, & 30 
more. 
O.C. students sign-up at Yearbook Office March 24 & 29 2:30-4:30 
~--~-----­
Friday, March 25, 1983-page 12
The Observer 
NCAA Women's Basketball Tournament 
Mideast Regional 
Tennessee 86 Tennessee 
S.C. State 511 
I 
Florida St. 76 
Mississippi 
Mississip~i 861 
Notre Dame. IN
Kentucky 76 
March 25 & 27 
Indiana 
GeorgiaGeorgia 721 


Design Editor Meeting 
There will be a meeting of all Observer design editors Saturday, March 26, at 10:30 a.m. in the Observer office. Attendance is mandatory!!! 
Midwest Actors Showcase Presents 
HUMPHREY BOGART: ODE TO A TOUGH GUY 
Starring National Shakespeare Company Student CHRISTOPHER REILLY as Bogart 
Century Center, South Bend AprilS, 9, 10 at SPM I April9, 10 at 2PM Students $4 -Century Center Box Office 284·9111 
(show ID when you pick up tickets) 

It:: "Reilly is a sensirive aclor and has WAOR ~Jm creared a memorable rribure ro fREEDOM ROCK a_n Ame~ican_legen~."
-Columboa Mtssour~an 
The Observer 
is accepting applications for the position of Production assistant Bring resumes/ applications to the Observer office by 5 p.m., Monday. Address to Production and Graphics Editor 
... Vols 
crowd. We'd like the Regional to strong performances from Haave, 6­
continuedfrom page 16 
come back -when we're in it," said 2 junior Mary Ostrowski and 6-1 for­to be sure," says Summitt, who built DiStanislao. ward Paula Towns to keep Connor her Tennessee powerhouse in the Tonight, though, is for Tennessee, from camping in the foul lane. mid-1970s. "And ifanybody can put Ole Miss, IU and Georgia. And of all Indiana is the tournament's Cin­NO over the top, it's Mary D. You can the regionals, the Mideast may be derella. An upset winner over the feel the tradition when you walk on the most balanced, as there is no powerful Lady Kats of Kentucky in this campus, and it's got to help. Louisiana Tech or USC as an the first round at Lexington, the 
"The football tradition helped overwhelmi~g favorite. Hoosiers slipped into the tourna­turn men's basketball around for "The Ole Miss game (tonight at 7) ment by defeating Ohio State for the Digger. I think that the tradition of should be really physical," said Sum­Big Ten title after losing to Notre football and men's basketball can't mitt yesterday. "The game will be Dame two nights before. help but rub off on the women's won inside, but we hope to exploit The Irish women beat IU by game." the transition game. Our game with corralling the Hoosiers' big people, 
Summitt and DiStanislao are them in January was a very tough Rachelle Bostic and Denise Jackson, friendly members of the coaching contest." and the SEC tournament champion fraternity. The Irish will. host the The Yols, 24-7, feature 6-2 junior Lady Bulldogs of Georgia should Lady Yois in next year's Orange Tanya Haave, who averaged 19 have the personnel to contain them. Crush Tournament, of which DiS­points a game this year, and a Sophomore forward Janet Harris tanislao is the tournament director. balanced rebounding game with a is UGa. 's aircraft carrier, and will key 
For now, though, DiStanislao will frontline that pulls down 21 the 'Dawgs inside attack with fresh­be an interested host of the rebounds a night. man guard Lisa O'Connor keepir.g RegionaL The key statistic for Mary Ole Miss, 26-5 and the nation's them honest from outside. 
D. will be the size of the crowd, not No. 13 team is paced by 6-2 Eugenia In all, there should be some pretty 
the result of the tourney. Connor, who averages 20 points an good hoop -not to mention a "I'd be gratified to see a good outing. The Ladv Yols will need glimpse at the future. 




TENNESSEE INDIANAThe Lady The Hoosiers 
Volunteers 24-7
26-5 
25-6 19-10 Ranked 13th Ranked ninth 
Ranked eighth Unranked 
nationally Seeded fourth Top seed 
in nation in nation Seeded second Seeded sixth 
1n region 1n regionin region in region SEC Tournament co-Big Ten SEC West regular SEC East regular Champion Championseason champion season champion 
MISSISSIPPI The Lady Rebels GEORGIA The Lady Bulldogs 

1983 heSUMME SESSIONS 

Georgetown Room of the Marquette Center, 820 North Rush, Chicago 
• Quality Education • Wide array of full-credit courses • Attend classes at Lake Shore Campus or Water Tower Campus • Students may register by mail. Informa­tion in the Bulletin. 
EVENING SESSIONFIRST SESSION 
May 16-July 14 
Biology, Chemistry & Physics: 
Registration
May 16-June 24 May 1 0 (Tuesday) 1 0 AM-1 PMAll Other Offerings: and 4 PM-6:30 PM
May 23-June 23 SECOND SESSION 
Registration 
Biology, Chemistry, Physics &May 10 (Tuesday) 10 AM-1 PM Accelerated Foreignand 4 PM-6 :30 PM Languages:May 18 (Wednesday) 10 AM-June 27 -August 51 PM (Excluding Biology, All Other Offerings:Chemistry & Physics) 
June 27 -July 28 Registration
Telephone: 312/670-3011 
June 16 (Thursday) 1 0 AM-or complete coupon below . . . 2:30 PM 
r--~-------------,I
The Summer Sessions
I ~(. ~I ~­_~  LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 820 North Michigan Avenue • Chicago, Illinois 60611  I  
I I  NAME ADDRESS CITY  STATE  PHONE ZIP______  II  
L  We are an equal opportunoty educator employer  NO 1  

----------------~ 
The Observer Friday, March 25, 1983-page 13 
Irish face Kenyon 
O'Leary copes with attrition 

By MIKE SULLIVAN 
AssistantSports Editor 
What can you expect from a team that plays a sport that is virtually un­known in the Midwest, does not give scholarships, and, on top of all that, loses its top two record-breaking scorers to graduation? 
If it's the Notre Dame lacrosse 
team, you can expect it to improve. 
"I'm optimistic about this season," 
says Coach Rich O'Leary, "because 
we have a marked improvement in 
skilL Unless something goes wrong, 
we'll improve all season." 
O'Leary has good reason to be op­timistic about his team's chances as he leads it into its Midwest Lacrosse Association schedule starting tomorrow when Kenyon College 
visits Cartier Field at 2:00p.m. 
Despite losing six seniors to graduation and having another major contributor decide not to play this year, O'Leary's squad is one of the most experienced in terms of lacrosse background he has ever coached. Several freshmen are ex­
last year, will add to the depth, as 
will freshman Tom Grote. 
"We have a lot ofnew people," ad­mits O'Leary, "and there are a num­ber of changes, so everybody is _going to have to make some adjust­
ments." 
There will not have to be as many 
adjustments among the midfielders 
as there are many middies returning 
from last year. They have the task of 
filling in for the loss of Bonde, who 
was second on the team in scoring 
with 40 goals and 14 assists. 
In order to replace Bonde's of­fensive power, O'Leary switched Steve Pearsall from attack to mid­field. The 6-1 junior from Green­lawn, N.Y., was third on the team in scoring last year with 23 goals and a team-high 29 assists. 
Pearsall will be joined by return­ing starter Dan Pace and Kevin Smith. Pace, a 5-10 senior who will also be one of the co-captains, scored 1 5 goals and passed offfor 18 more last year, while Smith, a 5-9 junior, contributed four goals and three assists last year while missing a 
be senior co-captain Sean Corscad­den and sophomore Steve Cloud. Both saw some playing time last year. Freshman Mike Rice and soph­omore john Walsh should also see plenty ofaction. 
Sophomores Rob Simpson and Pat Poletti are entrusted with keeping the ball out of the goal again this year. Simpson will get the starting nod on the basis of his 61-percent save percentage and his ability to handle the ball outside ofthe crease. 
O'Leary realizes that what his young team needs most is playing time to prepare for the conference games. That it why he is concerned that two games in two weeks has not allowed his players to get enough playing time. A snow-postponed scrimmage against Michigan did not help matters. 
"We would really have benefited from the playing time," said O'Leary. "It would have helped us get back on track playing Midwest competition. 
"After the (East Coast) trip, however, I'm confident that we're a much better team. We should be 
Melvin Turpin's 16 points helped 12th-ranked Kentucky beat Indiana in the semi-finals ofthe NCAA Mideast Regional basket­ball tournament last night 64-59. See Sports Briefs for more on the tournament. 
c • • • • 4i 
-,
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
pected to play a key role, as is a trans­
fer student. 
O'Leary has already had the opportunity to get a glimpse ofwhat to expect from his team as it began its season over break. Although it dropped two games to Eastern op­ponents, he is still confident that things will improve against the teams that count -the MLA op­ponents. 
O'Leary hopes to improve on last year's record of 9-6, including a good 7·3 mark in Midwest Lacrosse Association play, and an appearance in the MLA championship game. 
In order to do this, however, the Irish are going to have to beat the best teams in the Midwest, MLA rivals Denison and Ohio Wesleyan. 
"We've improved a lot from last year," says O'Leary, "but Wesleyan and Denison will be tough, and Wooster College is supposed to have a good club. With a real good effort, though, we should be able to beat them." 
Depth, a luxury that O'Leary has not enjoyed since he took over the lacrosse program 13 years ago when it was still a club sport, is going to play a major role in the team's success this year. While there are just as many players in the different positions, this year's players, from the starters to the subs, have more lacrosse playing experience than their predecessors. 
It is thisexperience that will allow 
the young team to recover from the 
loss of the two players that broke all lot of the season with an injury. 
Another co-captain, senior Tracy Cotter, will be spending time on the second and third lines. Last year, the Dearborn, Mich. native handled the faceoff chores occasionally. He will be fighting it out for the duty this year with freshman Bob Carillo. 
On the deiensive end, most oflast year's team returns. justin Shay, a 6-2 sophomore from Carlisle, Mass., who is comingoffan excellent fresh­man year, should be the leader. He scored eight points last year, a high number for a defenseman. 
joining Shay on the defense will 

1!1~ DISCOUIIT SHOW '":":::::":,';;'' ICE THAN ANY OTHER SHOWI 
....-lllleolr's torn '
5IYOU'll KNOW US BY NAME BUT THE SHOW'S NOT_THE SAilEj_] Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students % price for the 
playing well sometime on Saturday 
LaFortune Little Theatre 7:00PM Tuesday March 29 
(against Kenyon). It might not be in the first quarter, but, before it's over, we'll be alright." 
The last time that O'Leary's team played Kenyon, the Irish wot:~ I 7-8 at Kenyon. O'Leary thinks things 
Aifj~ r.~~STEDIN
should turn out about the same as 
,.,v 
apnl ' HELPING TO RUN 
last year. 
• INDIVIDUAL EVENTS???? 
IRISH ITEMS -There is another-­game scheduled this weekend for 

the Irish. Lake Forest College, in its first year ofvarsity competition after eight years ofclub competition, will take on Notre Dame at 2:00 on Sun­day afternoon. 
the Notre Dame scoring records ­attackman Steve Linehan and mid­fielder Bill Bonde. 
It will be freshmen and sopho­mores who must make up for the loss of Linehan, the team's leading scorer last year with 42 goals and 22 assists. 
joe Franklin, a 5-9 freshman from Lindenhurst, N.Y., should be one of the three starting attackmen for the MLA opener. He is currently the leading scorer (two goals, one as­sist) for the squad after its games against Yale and Duke over break. 
He will be joined by sophomores Bob Trocchi and Kevin Rooney to form a young starting attack. Troc­chi, a 6-0 transfer student from Sud­bury, Mass., arrives from the University of Rhode Island where there was no varsity team. His three assists over break was a team high. 
Rooney is the only returnee from 
last year among the trio. A 6-4 native 
of Convent Station, N.j., Rooney 
scored five goals while seeing 
limited action. 
O'Leary also hopes for a lot ofhelp on the attack from seniorjustin Dris­colL The 5-10 player from Hun­tington, N.Y. is another newcomer to the squad after spending time on the football team as a walk-on. Brian McKeon, a 5-9 sophomore from Auburn, N.Y., who played sparingly 
following shows: Thurs. 8 PM-Fri. 8 PM Sat. 12 noon-Sun. 6 PM Tickets at A.C.C. Box Office 

Exciting Thlnga Ate Happening at 
9AM to5 PM 
Daniel'a Den Lounge Ramada Inn South Bend 
COLLEy·s 
Bac.k by popular demand March 21·26: 
The Great Sleepy Martin 
SPORTSWEAR 
1813 S. Ironwood, South Bend 219-234-6149 
M·Th Dollar Drink Nite 

on bar liquor & domestic beer F·Sat Each person will receive a 
2 for 1 drink ticket Sun We are now open Sunday 8-12 pm 
LW.W. S.B. 
L.1_ 
with live country music by
R.R~. 
Whiskey River Band 
tN 
52890 U.S. 33 North of Cleveland Rd., South Bend, 272-5220 
Ironwood
* VillaR:'
Soul 
{ 
~ 
~~)I
"Qualtiy work 
special eveqt, promotion, , fraternity, or 
sorority." 
... 
team,""''""· ''"" ~ 
•Custom Screen Printing T-shirts, sweat 
shirts, award jackets &caps 
Discounts on quantities 

rhe Observer Friday, March 25, 1983-page 14 
Miami, Dayton scheduled 
Irish diamond foes uncertain 

By NEAL SMITH Sports Writer 
Who will the Notre Dame baseball team play this weekend? Miami and Dayton? Ball State? Indiana? As oflast night, nobody knew. 
The Irish were originally scheduled to play at Miami Univer­sity in Oxford, Ohio Saturday and Dayton University on Sunday after­noon, both in doubleheaders. But due to the weather, Dayton's diamond is unplayable. Irish coach Larry Gallo has been trying to ar­range the Dayton games to be played
BradJergenson scored 15 points in a losing effort last night as 
on the Miami Redskins' t1cld.
Wake Forest downed South Carolina 78-61 in NIT Quarterfinal 
However, a rule at Miami does not 
action. See Sports Briefs for more details. 
allow the ~edskins to play on their 
ENGINEERING .-TAKES ON EXCITING 
NEW DIMENSIONS 
IN THE 
AIR FORCE. 
Computer-gener<~ted design for investig<~tin.l( structur<~l strengths and weaknesses. 
Developing and managing Air Force engineering projects could be the most important, exciting challenge of your life. The projects extend to virtually every engineering frontier.. 
8 CAREER FIELDS FOR ENGINEERS 
/;; 
.\n· Force elertriral engineer ,;tud\·in.l! airrr:1ft elertriral pm\·er ,;upply ,;\·,;tem. 
Engineering opportunities in the Air Force include these eight career areas: aeronautical. aerospace. architectural, 
astronautical, civil, 
electrical, mechanic(:!\ and 
nuclear. Hundreds of diverse specialties are included in a wide variety of work settings. :For example, an electrical en (Tineer may work in aircraft desit-,1, space systems, power pn,Juction, communications or research-. A mechanical engineer might be involved in aircraft structure design, space vehicle launch pad construction, or research. 
PROJECT RESPONSIBILITY COMES EARLY IN THE AIR FORCE 
.-'1.1r Force mechani,·;Ji en,~;ineer in~pecting aircraft jet enguw turbine. 
!\!lost Air Force engineers have complete proJect responsibility early in their careers. For example, a first lieutenant directed work on a new airborne electronic system to pinpoint radiating targets. Another engineer tested the jet engines for advanced tanker and cargo aircraft. 
OPPORTUNITIES IN THE NEW USAF SPACE COMMAND 

Artist's concept of the llSCS III Defense Satellite Communications System satellite. (USAF photo.) 
Recently, the Air Force formed a new Space Command. Its role is to pull together space operations and research and development efforts, focusing on the unique technological needs of space systems. This can be your opportunity to join the team that develops superior space systems as the Air Force moves into the twenty-first century. 
To learn more about how you can he part of the team, see your Air Force recruiter or call our Engineer Hotline toll free 1-800-531-5826 (in Texas call 1-800-292-5366). There's no obligation. 
.. 

diamond on Sundays. It will not be:: known until today if the university would allow Notre Dame and Dayton to play on the field. 
Meanwhile, Gallo has been trying to arrange the Dayton games to be played on the fields of Wright State or Cincinnati University. If these plans fall through, Gallo has also tried to set up a doubleheader with Ball State University or Indiana Uni­versity at their respective campuses. 
U Notre Dame does play Miami, the Redskins will be a differnet team than expected. After a 17-25 record last year, the Redskins are now sporting a 9-0 record. They are scheduled to play Dayton in a doubleheader today. 
Last week Miami travelled to Flor­
dia and won the ~tantord Memonal 
Tournament. First year coach John 
Pavlisko, previously an assistant 
coach at Central :\-tichigan for 12 
years, said that he did not anticipate 
an undefeated record up to now, but 
he did go to Flordia expecting good 
things. 
"From what their (the Redskins') coach told me, they didn't really play top Division I competition." said Gallo. The Redskins played Millerville, Belmont, Anderson, Delaware Valley, Indiana Pennsylva­nia, Delphi, and Norwood. In the nine games,. Miami averaged a four run victory margin and 7.4 runs a game compared to the Irish's :S.O 
runs a game. 
Dayton, coached by Tony Caruso, is I-7. After the games against Miami today, Dayton will go on to play Kent State in two games tomorrow before the scheduled games with the Irish on Sunday. The last time Notre Dame faced Dayton, the Irish came away wah easy 1"'-1 and 7-3 victories. 
'It's just the psycho­logical aspect now. We need to play now. That's all there is to it.' 
Ball State is 2-7 after a spring trip 
to Georgia while Indiana is reported 
at 5-7. 
Whoever the Irish play tomorrow, 
senior pitchers Bill Matre and Steve 
Whitmyer will be the star­
tingpitchers. Matre is 1-1 on the 
young season with a 4.77 earned run 
average ( E.R.A.) in 13 innings. Whit­
myer is 0-2 with 13 strikeouts in I 2 
innings. 
On Sunday, Mark Clementz will 
take the mound in one of the games. 
Clementz is 2-0 on the season ( 8-0 
career) with a 3.1 E.R.A. in 16 in­
nings of work. The fourth starter of 
the weekend Will be one of three 
possible players -Buster Lopes ( 0­
1, 5.68 E.R.A.), Bill Stonikas (0-1, 
6.33 E.R.A.) or freshman Brad Cross (0-1, 2.67 E.R.A. ). 
If Notre Dame only plays two 
games this weekend, Gallo will use 
reliefpitchers. "I may try to throw in 
some guys just to get some work," 
Gallo said. "We haven't played in a 
week." 
Whenever the Irish do play, a new face may be seen at shortstop. Rick Chryst and .Jason Schomer have both been playing there. but both have committed three errors at the posi­tion. Freshman Tom Shields is ex­pected to see some action. 
Chryst, the captain of the team, 
has also played all three outfield 
positions this season. He leads the 
team in hitting (. 316 batting 
average), runs batted in, and 
doubles. Chryst also has a triple and 
home run in the young season. 
IRISH ITEMS -The Irish had a doubleheader scheduled with St. Joseph's Wednesday cancelled due to the weather ...Commenting on the week layoff. Gallo said. "Its not going to hurt us. It's just the p~ycho­logical aspect now. We need to plav now. That's all there is to it." ...As a team Notre Dame is batting .187 and pitching with a 6.03 E.R.A., compared to their opponents' 2. s­
E.R.A. Chryst's .316 and Henry Lange's .315 are the only batting averages over .2'50. _..Greg Hudas, John Murphy and pitcher Tom Con­lin will not make the weekend trip due to injuries....The Irish have committed 22 errors in 1 1 games...."Ir wasn't as bad as the statistics showed. What our statistics showed, we shouldn't have won a game. (However) we should've won six games," remarked Gallo on the 
11 game road. trip in the South last week. "I don't think too many people in this area, not even Michi­gan, went south and played the type of teams we played." 


I.he~~er=·========================================== 
Friday, March 25, 1983 -page 15
Weekend 
Bloom County
....:-------..... 
WAIL I 'THINK 
WHifT?
W£'V£ 60T 
:x?M61HIN6... 
I 




The Daily Crossword 

Berke Breathed 
Jeb Cashin 
Photius 
OH, AND NE'XT TIME' I'M Suf'PO.SED TO J"UMP RI&HT UP AND MAKE 
MYSELF LOOK LIKE A 

Campus 
Friday, March 2 5 
•2 
p.m. -SMC Voice Festival, Workshop-Master Class, "Innovations and Theatricality in Recital Building," Little Theatre 

• 
3: I5 p.m. -Workshop, "Public Policy: Lessons from Elsewhere," Robert Solo, 331 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

•3:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Luring Night," Prof Paul Weiss, Library Lounge 

•4 
p.m. -Conference, "Explaining Religion Away? Evolutionary Explanations of Religion and Morality," William Austin, CCE Auditorium 

•5:I5-Mass 
and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7:I5 
p.m.-StaiionsofThe Cross, Sacred Heart Church 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series , "Tragedy of a Ridiculous Man," Annenberg Auditorium, 52 

•8 
p.m. -Conference, "Production and Prospects: Reflections on Christian Hope and Original Sin," Nicholas Lash, CCE Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -SMC Voice Festival, Song Recital, Little Theatre 

•8 
p.m. -Midwest Student Conference, "Justice in a Nuclear Future?" Senator Patrick Leahy, Library Auditorium 

•8:15 
p.m.-Glee Club Spring Concert, Wash­ington Hall 

•8:30 
p.m. -Waltz Ball, Chautauqua, Sponsored by Chapel Choir, SI 

•9:30 
p.m. -A Chance to Dance, APEX Band, Chautauqua, Sponsored by Sophomore Class, SI 


Saturday, March 26 
•9:I5 
a.m.-Conference, "'God and the Natural Order," William Alston, CCE Auditorium 

•I
0 a.m. -SMC Voice Festival Workshop, "The Singer/Accompanist Relationship," Little Theatre 

•11 
am. -Conference, "Christians Get the Best ofEvolution," James Ross, CCE Auditorium 

•I2 
p.m. -Track, ND Invitational, ACC Fieldhouse 

•12:30 
p.m. -Lacrosse, ND Men vs. Kenyon Col­lege, Cartier Field 

•2 
p.m. -SMC Voice Festival Workshop, "Research: The Personal Joy and Artistic Fulfill­ment of Doing Your Own Literary and Musical Research," Little Theatre 

•7, 
9 and 11 p.m. -· Film, "Kentucky Fried Movie," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Marketing Club, SI 

•8 
p.m. -SMC Voice Festival Workshop, Voice Recital by SMC Students, Little Theatre 

•8 
p.m. -Abiogensis Dance Collective Con· cert, Washington Hall 

•IO 
p.m.-1 a.m.-MusicalEntertainment, Oak· room Cafe 


Sunday, March 27 
•2 
p.m. -Lacrosse, ND Men vs. Lake Forest College, Cartier Field 

•2 
p.m -Organizational Meeting for Students Against Drunk Drivin, Keenan Hofman Lounge 

•2:30 
p.m. -Abiogenesis Dance Concert, Washington Hall ­

•4 
p.m. -Concert, Faculty Chamber Music Reel· tal, Annen berg Auditorium 

•6:30 
and 9:30p.m. -Film, "Hamlet," Engineer· ing Auditorium, Sponsored by English Department and Shakespeare Club, S I 

•7 
p.m. -Rock in Retrospect, Jack Briganti, WSND-AM64 

•8 
p.m.-Lecture, "The Spirituality ofJudaism," Rev. Marcel Dubois, Library Auditorium 

•8:I5 
p.m. -Graduate Cello Recital, Denise Kuehner, 1I5 Crowley Hall 

•10 
p.m. -All Funk Show, Carolyn Adams, 


..
WSND-AM64 

3125/83 
ACROSS 1 Romantic isle 5 Amblerand Blore 10 "-:-do ~ny­thmg... 14 Doing 
business 15 -Haute 16 Hot under 
the collar 17 Heavy metal 18 Willow 19 Skip 20 Brubeck and 
Garroway 22 Bring into existence 
24 Maintains public order 
I I~sr WANT£0 TO 
Sft HOW FASI YOU'D 
MOV£ TO (fff HE'RE IF 


26 Nozzle 
27 Ingest 
28 Gennof films 
30 Tending toward an end 
33 Katmandu's land 37 OldWorld plant 39 Mortise's partner 41 Light sleep 
42 Victorious 
44 "South Pacific" song subject 
46 White or Red 
47 And not 49 Coloring matter 51 Coconut and banana 56 Sourceof information 57 Valuable violin 
59 Italian beach resort 
60 Broadway show 62 Kindot flooring 63 And others: abbr. 
64 Irritated 
65 Adoration 66 Weird 67 Luges 68 God of love 
DOWN 1 Brave 2 Vertically 3 Skips 4 Greatly 
involved 5 WWII theater 6 Changed 
residence 7 Celtic 8 Mediterra· 
nean island 9 Mexican shawl 10 Alone 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
11 Mime 12 Spring up 13 European 
nation: 
abbr. 21 Blemish 23 Vegetable 25 Fatty 
tissue 28 Thai 
language 29 Sea flyer 31 Once-
while 32 Ended 34 Hind part 35 Kind of 
dye 36 Barkerof 
films 38 Board game 40 Orderly 43 Religious 
official 45 Gentlemen 48 Waterways 50 Irritate 51 Stale 52 Electronics 
device 53 Polite 54 Pertaining 
to old women 55 Artillery discharge 56 Kind of 
club 58 Poor grades 61 Commercials 

Need Extra $$$ ?? 
The ND Student Union needs a St. Mary's poster hanger 
Hours are your own ... anytime between 5:00p.m. and 12:00a.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays Must be female, reliable, and responsible Inquire now with Darrell Nolan at the Student Union or ca/1239-7605 and ask for Darrell 
&nior Bar
\.;V 
The ALLEN BROTHERS ock Senior Bar Friday Nite ! 

open 9:30 ti112:00 
• 
band starts at 10:00 

Key positions open 
Hope springs eternal for Faust 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI phere along with providing great lettermen Mark Brooks and Chris 
Sports Writer leadership. It has really rubbed off Smith are major stalwarts returning 
well on our returning players. It has at fullback. Will the third time be the charm? given them an excellent attitude and The offensive line also returns a That is the question many Notre confidence for this year." wealth of experience and talent. 
Dame football fans are asking as Ger­. As always, a major priority for Junior Larry Williams and senior ry Faust and his staff begin spring spring ball will be replacing the Mike Shiner have the early nod at the practices tomorrow at Cartier Field vacancies left by the graduating tackle positions. William!' boasts the 
in preperation for the 1983 season. seniors. Each unit will lose outstand­most minutes of any returning Irish 
Students are welcome to attend the ing starters and leaders of the past offensive starter from last year, 
11:30 a.m. practice session. three and four years. while Shiner was a starter in 1980 
Weather permitting, the team will and 1981 before sitting out most of practice on Mondays, Wednesdays, last year with injuries. Fridays and Saturdays, before Spring Junior Mike Kelley, Shiner's re­
'83 
concluding the sessions on Saturday, placement last year, has been moved April 30 in the annual Blue-Gql.d in­-FOOTBALL to the center position. Last year's trasquad game. backup center, sophomore Tom 
Historically, year No. 3 has been a On defense, the line loses Kevin Doerger, will press for the starting charm for Notre Dame football Griffith along with Bob Clasby. The spot also. Ifeither Kelley or Doerger coaches. Knute Rockne was 9-0 in linebackers will lose four-year start­don't start at center, they still will 
his third year in 1920, and his team er Mark Zavagnin, while the secon­have a good chance for a starting was declared "Western Cham­dary loses another four-year starter role at tackle. Senior Neil Maune, pions." Frank Leahy's third year in in Dave Duerson. who started eight games last year, 1943 produced a National Cham­On offense, the top receiver ofthe and sophomore lettermen Tim Scan­pionship. Ara Parseghian's third year past three years, Tony Hunter, will nell are the top contenders for the 
in 1966 produced a National Cham­vacate his tight-end position. Back­starting slots at guards. 
pionship. Dan Devine's third year in up John Sweeney, a four-year letter­Tight end may be the most dificult 1977 produced a National Cham­men, will also graduate. Tom position to nail down. No lettermen 
pionship. Thayer, a stalwart on the offensive return at that position, but Faust is Then again, Terry Brennan and line for the last three years, will have quite confident in the abilities of Joe Kuharich were 2-8 in their third to be replaced at guard. Guard see SPRING, vage 11
years ( 1956and 1960 respectively). Randy Ellis, a three-year starter, and 
Faust can't help but chuckle at center Mark Fischer, two-year start­such trivia. The only history that er, are two more key figures lost. concerns him, however, is that of Phil Carter, who fmished third on 
Mideast regionals here 
the last two years. While the 6-4-1 the all-time Notre Dame rushing list, mark of last year left most fans dis­is a major loss in the backfield, as is gruntled, there were major bright fullback Larry Moriarty. 
Vols provide glimpse of future 
spots. "The one thing that's encouraging 
Besides defeating such outstand­is that we didn't have any particular By MIKE RICCARDI favored Tennessee club. The Lady challenge." ing teams as Michigan, Miami and area completely wiped out by Sports Editor Volunteers are what Mary D. some­Sonja Hogg, the co-coach of the the then No. 1-ranked team, Pitts­graduation," notes Faust. "We need day hopes to have -a perennial two-time defending national cham­burgh, a tremendous amount of to find a tight end and nail down a Mary DiStanislao has a dream. contender for the National Cham­pion Lady Techsters, feels that Sum­heart was shown in the Southern Cal couple of offensive line jobs. On She got a glimpse of that dream pionship. Tennessee has been at five mitt, who co-captained the last U.S. finale. With nothing to play for but defense we've got to pencil in last month, when Louisiana Tech of the last six Final Fours -AlAW Olympic team to compete in the pride, the Irish showed their true several new names up front, but came to the ACC. That game was a and NCAA. Summitt's career record Games, the 1976 Silver Medal team, fight by leading the Trojans in the we'll be missing only one regular at perfect touch to highlight Notre is 221-65. Notre Dame's crowd for will be able to do for women's bas­fmal minute before being robbed by both the linebacker and secondary Dame's topsy-turvy season. Despite Tech is an average crowd at UT's ketball what Herb Brooks did for what proved to be a "phantom levels. the outcome, Mary D. had a reason Stokely Athletic Center. hockey at the 1980 Winter Olym­touchdown" by the Trojans. "We're certainly losing some key to smile when she looked up and And Summitt's efforts, along with pics. 
"We struggled the first year, then individuals, but almost everywhere saw almost 5,000 people in the those of DiStanislao's, will go a long "I think that this sport will take off last season we found out how to beat we have a position to fill we can do it South Dome. way in determining the future ofthe in 1984," says Hogg, "because of the good football teams again," says with someone who has some ex­Tonight and Sunday, she'll get an­sport ofwomen's basketball. what Pat Head Summitt is going to Faust. "This time our goal is to play perience." other glimpse as Notre Dame plays Summitt, the coach of the United qo with the Olympic team in LA." with consistency every week, as This is most evident at the tailback host to the NCAA Mideast regionalst States' 1984 Olympic entry, believes If 1984 is the year for the sport of well as with intensity. I think we position where sophomore Allen Surprising Indiana University, the that the Los Angeles Games could be women's basketball, then can Notre could see things falling into place by Pinkett (532 yards in 107 carries) Big Ten champibn will play No. 8 a takeoff point for the sport. Dame make it to the Promised Land, the end of the '82 season, and we're and junior Greg Bell ( 124 yards in Georgia and No. 13 Mississippi will "A good performance in L.A. or for that matter, the Top 20, in the hoping to take advantage of that 23 carries before an injury in the take on No. 9 Tennessee, the would be someshot in the arm," says same year? now. second game last year) return. Bell, regional's top seed. Summitt. "It's a tremendous oppor­"It's an up-and:_eo_ming program, 
' 
"Last year's seniors did a great job however, will sit out spring drills in DiStanislao will be paying special tunity for the sport. And I think the see VOLS, page 12of building a family-type of atmos-order to nurse the injury. Two-year attention to Pat Head Summitt's athletes we'll have will be up to the 

One season at a time 
ByJANE HEALEY Division II Fairbanks over a ten-day period. Assistant Sports Editor These plans are all temporary until Athletic Director Gene Corrigan officially evaluates the prospects, works 
Since the athletic administration's decision to out the minor details and come.s up with a fmal downgrade Notre Dame's varsity hockey program, schedule. numerous rumors have been circulating about the The one major detail with which Corrigan has yet to future of the team and coach Charles "Lefty" Smith. deal is who will coach the Irish club. The official press Now, bit by bit, the facts are becoming known. release concerning the decision stated, "Coach Lefty 
The Notre Dame hockey program will definitely Smith, the onlycoach Notre Dame's varsity program has operate under club status next year. It is a fact. known since its inception in 1969-70, will continue as Any doubts about the program involve finalizing the coach ofthe Irish club team."
... 
details about the club. For certain, 21 players will be Corrigan also said in the January hockey press con-· returning as club members. What remains questionable ference, "We don't want a club without a coach. Lefty is is who the players will be competing against. important to the continuation of hockey at Notre 
"Many people were under the impression that being Dame." a club team meant that we only play other club teams," According to Smith, however, his future is still very Smith says. "It's a little bit ofa surprise about the people much up in the air. who want to play us. We are getting requests to play "I have to sit down with Mr. Corrigan and discuss the Division I teams down to Division II teams down to situation," Smith says. "I also have to talk things over Division 'II teams and, ofcourse, the clubs." with family. It might be a matter of a few days or a few 
Bowling Green is one ofthe Division I teams that has months. I haven't set a time limit." expressed interest in playing Notre Dame. Two other Smith would not reveal if he was leaning one way or CCHA teams, who wished to remain unnamed, have another, but he would discuss some of the ideas and also contacted Smith. questions that he is pondering. 
There are many schools with club hockey programs "At a time like this, a lot questions go through your in the Midwest. Teams such as University of Michigan-mind," he said. Smith pondered the validity of some Dearborn, Northwestern and the University of Illinois reasons for the drop in attendance such as a bad
Sophomore Bob Thebeau is one of the 21 Irish hockey players 
are possible Irish opponents. economy, changing student attitudes and the move
who have decided to stay at Notre Dame and play for for the club 
• 
The most exciting possibility for the Irish is a trip to from the WCHA to the CCHA. Most importantly though,
team. Who that team willplay, who will coach the team, and what 
Alaska slated for fall break. Notre Dame would play a see HOCKEY page 11
will happen to the team after oneyear ofclub status are questions 
two-game series with both Division I Anchorage and ' 
no one can answer right now. 

........._ 

