Volcanos -page 4 

VOL XVIII, NO. 29 tht: indt:pt:mknt !->llllknt nt:w!->papt:r !->lT\·ing notn danw and !->aint man·~ WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1983 

Three Salvadoran tra.te union leaders listen as Workers Union and Farmers Cooperative were interpreter translates a statement by Dr. Henry represented. The meeting tookplace in Florida. Kissinger. The Farm workers Union, Construction 
America.n prescence in Lebanon is instm1nental for stabilization 
By PATRICK MULLEN is to "keep the Lebanese govern­The Syrian government is News Staff ment from falling," Dowty added. factions are attempt­Dowty, a professor ofgovernment ing to overthrow this government, The United States presence in and ioternational relations, said the said Dowty. Maronite Christians, Lebanon is necessary to preserve role of the U.S. is to stabilize the who represent twenty percent of peace in the region, according to balance offorces unsettled by Syrian Lebanon's population, are largely in 
Notre Dame professor Alan Dowty. influence in the conflict. The control ofthe government. 
The U.S. is justified in keeping its Marines are in Lebanon as part of a Dowty reported that the Syrians troops in Lebanon, said Dowty, be­multi-national peace-keeping force. have a direct interest in Lebanon. cause U.S. presence in Lebanon is in­"Ifthe Syrians think they can over­"Syria claims that Lebanon is histori­strumental in achieving peace throw (Lebanese President Amin) cally a part ofSyria," he said. "Syria's between the different warring fac­Gemayel's government, they won't capital, Damascus, lies right on the 
tions. make any serious efforts to 
see LEBANESE, page 4 
The United States goal in Lebanon negotiate," said Dowty. 
Flood waters in Arizona recede; Officials warn of impending rain 
Associated Press ofArizona, flood warnings remained ·might become mixed with tropical 
in effect along portions of the Gila moisture entering Arizona from 
TUCSON, Ariz. -The sun peeked and Santa Cruz rivers, with the Mexico and if that occurs it will set out yesterday, but runoff-bloated forecast calling for scattered locally the stage for a new surge of heavy rivers still ran rampant in southeast­heavy showers or thundershowers rains, possibly today or tomorrow. ern Arizona where flooding has left through today in southeastern Arizonans have had enough 
11 people dead, two others missing, Arizona. trouble to deal with already. 
and damage in the hundrrds of mil­Bob Berkovitz of the National Interstate 10, the major link be-
lions ofdollars. Weather Service in Phoenix said 
While some streams began to moisture from Hurricane Priscilla 
see FLOOD page 5 recede, officials warned that more rain might be on the way. As helicopters earned more 
United Way representative
people to safety and eura police 
patrols guarded against looting in 
towns left in ruins, the National 
stresses social concerns 
Weather Service said a F·acific hur­
ricane might renew the downpours By THOMAS LAMB their donations to the United Way,
that have caused Arizona':; worst dis­News Staff 35 social agencies working in the aster this century. 
Southbend area.
In Washington. White House United Way representative The HPC, in an effort to improvespokeman Larry Speakes said Presi­Patrick Mangin presented a speech school spirit, is planning a bannerdent Reagan received a request late and a film at last night's Hall Presi­contest for the NO-South CarolinaMonday from Gov. Bruce Babbitt dent's Council meeting held in the game. The winner will receive S25.
asking that 10 counties in the sout­
chapel ofLyons hall. St. Ed's hall was commended for
heast part of the state he declared 
Mangin, the associate director of raising over S300 for local charitiesmajor disaster areas, releasing 
campaign and communications for at a recent off-campus party open tofederal assistance for businessmen, 
United Way, stressed the impor­all Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­
homeowners and farmers ruined by 
tance of the United Ways' actions in dents.
the four days offlooding. 
dealing with social concerns in his Also discussed at the mee.ting
He said Reagan directed the presentation. were the upcoming variety show,Federal Emergency Management 
In a week-long campaign begin­the party proposal, and efforts toAgency to "move with dispatch on ning Oct. 4, Notre Dame students change the rules governing parie·
the governor's request." 
will be asked to support, through tals.
Although skies cleared over most 
President proposes nuclear 'build-down' 
Associated l~ress with a group from the House and 
Senate before announcing the 
WASHINGTON President revised U.S. position. "Let me em­Reagan proposed yesterday that the phasize," he said. "that the United Soviet Union and the United States States has gone the extra mile." each destroy at least S percent of At Reagan's side was Edward their st rategic nuclear warheads Rowny, who will open a fifth round every year. "We want to reduce the oftalks with the Soviets tomorrow in weapons of war, pure and simple," Geneva, Switzerland. Reagan declared. 
The president, outlining a new "There will have to be trade-offs 
U.S. bargai111ing position in the dead· and the United States is prepared to locked strategic arms talks, said that make them," Reagan said as he "everything is on the table." He outlined Rowny's instru t ctions to specifically offered, also, to reporters. negotiate limits on long-range bom­Asked whether he had specific bers and air-launched cruise numbers of weapons in mi t nd, the missiles. The United States holds an president replied, "Not that I would edge in bombers of 410 to 343, and mention in advance." also is aht:ad in the cruise missiles Reagan adopted the proposal for a they carry. guaranteed "build-down" in U.S. and 
Earlier, Reagan sought to require Soviet long-range nuclear weapons substantial cutbacks in heavy at the prompting of Aspin and other missiles, which account for about members ofCongress. It wa.'i backed two-thirds of the Soviets' strategic by 45 senators. strength, while promising to take up bombers at a later stage. If the Soviets accept Reagan's 
"We have removed the dividing proposed build-down, it could 
line between the two phases of our smooth the way for congressional 
original proposal," Reagan said. approval of at least part of his MX 
But he· accused the Soviets of missile program, which would 
"stonewalling," and Rep. Les Aspin, deploy 100 new land-based missiles 
D-Wis., who played a key role in with 10 warheads each at Warren air 
White House consultations with force base in Wyoming. 
Congress, predicted "a very cold Apart from the guaranteed cut­
reaction" from Moscow. back ofS percent a year in warheads, 
The Soviets have proposed limit· the proposal also would require 
ing each side to 1,800 missiles and both sides to destroy more old 
bombers combined. Currently, the nuclear weapons for each new on t e 
United States has about 1,600 they add to their arsenals. For ex­
missiles compared to 2,340 for the ample, a senior official said, two in­
Soviet Union. tercontinental ballistic missiles 
The president met for 4S minutes might be retired for each new one. 

The Observer/PaulCifarelli 
United Way representative Patrick Mangin speaks a( last night's HPC meeting. Mangin also presented a film while HPC discussed upcomingfund-raising week. 

,...---------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, October 5, 1983-page 2 
In·Brief 
Boredom in Iowa 
Southern Indiana will receive $7 mil­lion from the: U.S. Department of Interior's Office ofSurface Mini­ng to fill hazardous mine shafts, remove trash dumps and shore up unstahlc dams. Federal and state officials, citing reasons of puhlic safety, n:fu~c:d to pinpoint the sites to he reclaimed. Although 29 mines art· indudt·d, somt· have: more than one site. "Many Hoosiers havt· lived li>r year~ with acid streams, highwalls and uncovered mint· ~haft~ for nc:ighhors. We've hecn awfully lucky in Indiana. We don't have: any record~ of people actually hc:ing killed in mine shafts," said John Alkn, assistant direuor for restoration for the In­diana lkpartmc:nt of Natural Resources. But there have been in­stann·~ in whil'h cars havt· pitched over highwalls and into water and drownt·d pt·opk, Allen said, adding that the OSM program is an attempt to prcvt·nt such disasters. -AP 
To combat the problem of acid rain, a 
task force of the: National Governor's Association called for sig­nificant reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions yesterday. But the governors halked at approving an even stronger call for specific pol­lution reductions. The task force voted 8-3 to go on record support­ing "the: development of a control program designed to achieve measurable: reductions in the acidity of rainfall." The plan calls for sulfur dioxide emissions to be reduced "hy a significant amount" by De:<:. 5I, 1990, with the possibility ofeven further reductions to be madt· hy 199'; if the Environmental Protection Agency determines they art· needed. But the: final policy statcmcn t t had none of the specific targets contained in a draft statement. That statement would have: put tht· governors on record supporting a 5-million ton reduc­tion by 1990 with large: cuthacks in sulfur dioxide coming from the states of Ohio, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, and West Virginia. 
-AP 
Prince Hiro ofjapan, second in line to Emperor Hirohito'~ throm·, took up rt·~idt·ncc at Merton College in Oxford llnivt·r~it y yesterday to start studying for an advanced degree in his­tory. llniversity officials and the japanese embassy in London 'tressed that the 25-yc:ar-old princT, eldest son of Crown Prince Akihito. wanted to live likt· a normal student and press covc:·ragc: of hi., arriv:~l wa., disn>uragc:tl. -AP 
Former congresswoman Shirley Chis­holm, who went after the Democratic nomination in 1972, says her agt· is tht· only reason she's not a candidate for president this timt·. "If I wt·rc: 49 -I'm S9 now -I would get out there," Ms. Chisholm said Monday night after a speech at Greenfield High School. "Everyhody else is running. It would be nice to elect a man who was, mayhc, 74, 75, with a woman as a running mate. It looks as 
ifthat might he: the only way we can slip in." Her speech, one ofmany she: has ddivcred in the area since joining the faculty at Mou'nt llolyokc: College:, was restricted initially to women and finanicial supporters of Greenfield Community College. But the college, whkh sponsored the: speech, moved it to the high school after protests and opened it to anyone. Chisholm was the first black woman c:lected to Congress. She decided not to seek re-election last yt·ar from her district in Brooklyn, N.Y. -AP 
Michigan baker Tom Kneeland is hoping his "Tom's Mom's <:ookies" will oust the: incumhcnt jcllyheans from tlw White llou~c More than 5.000 of Knc:c:land's chocolate-chip cookie~ han· ht'l'n ortlt-red for tomorrow night's annual W'hitc I louse Congressional Barbecue. Presidential interest in his products ~tartt·d in the ~pring of 19H2 when Kneeland sc:·nt a batch ofcookies to an aunt who works on tht· Whi t te House staff. He received a note from Prt·sidt·nt Rt·agan, which, in turn, led The New York Times to spt't'ulate that the: cookies were: challenging jellybeans, a Reagan 
favorite:, in the: first family's household. Since then, Kneeland's 
cookies have: hc·c:n rolling cast from his hakery in north Michigan. 
Last May. Kneeland flew ahout 12,000 cookies to Williamsburg, Va, 
to hdp catn the International Economic Summit Conference. -AP 
The fiction-writing profession is gone 
forevn ht'Giuse litnary magazines are dead, Kurt Vonnegut, former 
Hoosier and hest-sdling author said last night. "The opportunity to 
hec:omt· what I have hec:ome no longn exists," Vonncgut told more 
than 2,000 people at the Indiana llnivcrsity Auditorium. Vonncgut 
said he: wrote short stories for magazines to earn a living. "I wrote 
hooks with no expectation ofmaking money." The acclaimed author 
hraggc:d that he has nc·vcr used a word-processing machine, and he 
advised young authors to edit their work carefully. Vonnegut, who 
grt·w up in Indianapolis, has written I.'\ books, including 
"Siaughtnhouse Five" and "Cal's Cradle:." He now lives in New York 
City.-AP 
Weather . . · 
Partly sunny this afternoon with highs in the uppl'r 60s. Gradual dearing and cool tonight. Lows in the mid to uppt'f 40s. Sunny tomorrow with pleasant autumn temperatures. High near 6S. 
Iowa might not be nearly as much fun this time around. 
Four years ago, this normally quiet state played host to a flea market of Presidential hopefuls, each one hoping to usc an Iowa caucus victory to propel him to further primary wins in the eastern states. 
But for 1984, the presidential race already looks more and more: like a two-man show, pitting Ronald Reagan and Walter Mondak. For your average cam­paign watcher, the prospects ofsuch an event threaten to make spring primaries awfully horing. 
Iowa hardly was boring in 1980: 11 candidates for the presidency, and most of them had criss-crossed the state several times heforc the town caucuses in late january. Multiply those 11 by the number of reporters in the average press entourage, and you can get the idea ofthe coverage that the news media gave Iowa for more than a month. 
Since the Iowa caucus was the first "vote" of the 
people, the candidates 
naturally wanted the ex· 
posure, and most of the 
time, they got it. The tradi­
tional methods ofcampaign­
ing (talking to factory workers, shaking hands, etc.) soon lost their normal­ly newsworthy luster, so aspiring candidates turned to more unorthodox stunts to gain attention. 
John Connally visited a cattle show. And George Bush, during a I0-month 

span, spent so much time in Iowa that he joked he should register to vote there. 
What a farce, you say? 
lOWA 
W c:ll, you arc not alone. 
Several columnists decried 
tht· political circus of the Iowa caucuses, calling them insignificant and overhlown. A Neu• York Times editorial said the caucuses were "not rt'prescntativc of the electorate as a whole . . and may very well be miskading." 
Because of the nature of the caucuses -straw votes from less than five percent of the voting population ­the results probably were deceiving. But then again, weren't the newsreels ofall those candidates entertain­ing, or at least amusing? There was something peculiar­ly American about them. Where else could so much be made ofso insignificant an event? 
The difference between I980 and I984, however, is that the leading candidates from both parties this year seem to he far ahead of the pack. In I980, Sen. Edward Kennedy was seriously challenging President Jimmy Carter on the Democratic side, while Bush was chip­ping away at Reagan's lead in the GOP camp. 
But this year, with the Iowa caucus less than five 
The_Qbs.eryer 
Co,lposition Hditor .. . .. . ..... Troy Illg Con1posilion Assistant ... .Tom ;mdjohn 
L<IJ'OIIt.\taff... . .. .. Coppertone Tvpes••llers... .... ·............ Michdl & Carol Neu•s Editor.. . Amy Stephan Copy Editor. ...jell'Choppin .\jmrts Copy Editor....... .. ....jane Healey Features Cop)• Editor. .. ............... What? Editorials Layout... ........josephine Due Selena> Layout............ . .. ..... E mc2 Features Layow........................ Mary Healy ND Day Editor................ Barbara Stephans 
SMC D~v Editor .............................. No Clue Ad DestgtJ ................................... Bill O'Brien Photographer.. .......... .. ...... Paul Ciffardli Guest Appearances.. Mr. Snowman; Mary jane; Fred. Mark. and Kerry: llirthday 
Boy. liuMingjune. 
To party or to die chat is the: question. 
The ObMrver (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The ObMrver 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($1 5 per semester) by wntmg The Obeerver. P 0 Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Obl8nler IS a member of The Anoclated Pnlu. All reproduction nghts are reserved 
• • • I • • 41 ......-.,.·.·a·'*·,.· .. ·.., 

..IIHIHIIIIIHIIIIIIIII...HIHHI....II....IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII..IHII... 
i
:
: 
Holy Grossi 
: 
I
If 
i 
I : i 
1Gifts given ... to be shared ii 
H ...HMII...H ..........IIII...IIIIIH...IHHHIIIIIII....I ...HIIIIHHIIIIII....II..... 
Mark Worscheh 
News Editor 
months away, Mondalc has already drawn a numhc:r of aces. IIis latest campaign hoost came on Saturday when the AFL-CIO endorsed his candidacy in an unprece­dented early vote. The former vice president garnered almost 97 percent of the labor union's ballots, and the endorsement is believed to be worth SI0-I 5 million to the Mondale campaign. And in Maine, he received 5 I 
percent of the vote in a non-binding straw poll. Sen. Alan Cranton ofCalifornia finished second. Reagan is showing no signs that he wants to step 
4 to announce his hid for re-election, while Richard Nixon declared his candidacy for a second term on Jan. 7, I972. 
Despite the apparent lack of close competition. th~ primary season might not he lost for those of us who enjoy witnessing the wildness of a springtime political foray. On the Democratic side:, a jesse jackson can­didacy is a possibility. And though ex-astronaut John Glenn has encountered some recent setbacks, he cer­tainly cannot he dismissed this early. Glenn already has been campaigning hard in Iowa, and the release of"The Right Stuff," a movie documenting the early days of the space program, is still to come. 
And if Reagan, for whatever reason, decides not to seek re-election, Iowa very well could become the circus it was the last time around. 
down as commander-in· chic[ Throughout the sum· mer. the Reagan administration indicated he would run for re-election. 
Should Reagan decide not to run, the first indications of this probably would not come from his own camp. hut would appear in other circles as Bush, Baker and Dole backers scramble build campaign organizations. So far, there have been no in­dications that Reagan will not run. 
Reagan still has some time to make up his mind, at least if he follows the example of presidents before him. Jim­my Carter waited until Dec. 
Volunteer Services Center Rm 11 Holy Cross Hall Saint Mary's College 
The Observer Wednesday, October 5, 19~3-page 3 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------....
Victims' families grieve fate of (]107 passengers 
Associated Press Visions of death in an airliner jolt 
Harold  Lebow  from  h1s  bed.  
Abraham  Katz,  73. grit:ves  in  
solitude  for  his  younger  brother.  

James Martin thinks of his adopted son's body on the ocean floor, and 
he feels hate. 
Across the country, as the politi­cal pronouncements die down and the protest rallies fade, families and friends of the victims of tht: Korean Air Unes attack are left with their an­guish. 
"I wake up in the middle of the night thinking about the: plane, whether they suffered," said Lebow, whose daughter and grand~;on died in the Soviet downing of K\L flight 007 three weeks ago. "We're just tormented." 
Lebow and his wife are not alone. In Seneca, S.C., widow Mickie Burgess is "devastated." In Pelham, N.Y., Pyung Chi Rella wakes with nightmares of her older sister's death. On Bainbridge Island, Wash., Dorothy Irwin "never will adjust" to the loss of her daughter, .1( athy Brown Spier. 
Six-year-old Todd Scruton 'took crayons and drew a picture of a crying child, soon after his learned ofthe death ofhis mother, Becky. He showed it to his grandmo·:her and said, "That is how I feel." 
"He often starts a sentence by saying, 'My mom used to do this,' or 'You know what my mom did one 


time?'" said the boy's grandmother, Ethel Scruton of Ludlow, Mass. In Queens, N.Y., JamesJung prays through sleepless nights. 
"What can I do?" askedjung, w tho lost Sung Hee Kwon, a friend and for­mer house guest, when the plane was shot down over the Sea of)apan. "I pray to my God, that's all. I pray, 'Stop the shooting, no more, any country."' 
Jung's feelings of helplessness were echoed by friends and relatives ofother victims. Dr. Christian Beels, a psychiatrist at Columbia Univer­sity in New York, said the comments showed "an acute griefreaction." 
"Anybody who suffers a loss like 
this has to go through a very agoniz­
ing period of examining themselves 
to see ifthere's any fault, anything to 
be guilty about," said Beels. 
He said the process is more dif­
ficult in this case because the vic­
tims were lost over water -in the 
Sea ofJapan. 
"The fact that you don't have the body makes it worse," he said. "In order to deal with something like this you have to fix it physically in your own experience. That's what funerals are all about." 
"Even the death certificate isn't 
here," said Betty Lim, of New Mil­
ford, N.J., whose husband, Jong Lind 
Lim, died on the plane. "Everything 
is up in the air." 
see RELATIVES, page 4 

Your resume should also be special. A professionally typeset resume is important because it shows you in your best light. We are typesetting professionals and can help you look your best. 
Bring this ad with you 101 10% Off an the typesetting al your resume. Oller expires October 31, 1913. Ollet' goad only fof typesetting. 
24'7 Dixieway North South Bend, IN 46637 
219-277-3355 

jim Windt of First Source Travel speaks to Stella O'Sulla looks on at the lucky contingent Carribean-bound seniors last night at SeniorBar. who will be vacationing over spring break. 
Nicaraguan wa1r splits families 
Associated Press 
ON THE SAN JUAN RIVER, Nicaragua -Tadeo dreads the day, which he hopes will never come, that he might sight one of his brothers down the barrel of his rifle and must decide whether to kill him. 
Tadeo, who uses no other name, is an easy-going, 33-year-old guerrilla leader trying to overthrow Nicaragua's Sandinista government. One brother is a lieutenant in the Sandinista army, and another is a leader of a militant Sandinista youth group. 
And ifthat day comes? 
"I would try to talk to him over a loudspeaker if they would let me," said the bearded, brown-eyed dis­trict commander for Eden Pastora's rebel Democratic Revolutionary Al­liance (ARDE) forces at a rebel camp here. 
"I would tell him the war is not between Nicaraguan brothers. It is between true Nicaraguans and the Cubans, Soviets and Bulgarians. If it didn't work, I would carry on as I al­ways have. I only hope it never comes to that. I don't know what he would do," said Tadeo. "It's the story of Nicaragua. There are a lot of families like ours in Nicaragua." 
Family political divisions began before the fall of Dictator Anastasio Somoza in 1979, when brother often fought brother in the civil war that took an estimated 50,000 lives. 
"But after the war, at the time of the betrayal, many Sandinista back­ers split again and, for a number of reasons, I suppose, some stayed with the (Sandinista) dictatorship," said ARDE spokesman Orion Pastora, a cousin of!Eden Pastora. 
The "betrayal" refers to ARDE's contention that the revolution strayed from its early goals. 
Sometimes the split has hit high levels. 
"For example, the political ad­viser to the Revolutionary Sandinista Front (Eden Pastora's organization within ARDE) is Carlos Coronel," said Orion Pastora. "His brother is the vice minister in the Nicaraguan Agrarian Reform Institute." 
He said there was no way of knowing if such families kept in touch with each other or tried to change each others' minds. 
"I know of a lot of cases where they have· become sworn enemies but in any particular case, who can say," he said. "It is a very personal subject with them." 
Tadeo and his brothers fought to­gether with Pastora during the 1978-79 war that toppled Somoza 
and  brought  the  Sandinistas  to  
power.  
After  the  war,  Tadeo  said  he  

joined the Sandinista air force but deserted to follow the charismatic Pastora early last year. 
"I'm tolld they sent my brother to Cuba for nine months to train with the infantry and that he is now a lieutenant," said Tadeo, a former cattle rancher from the rolling hills of southern Nicaragua's Contales province. 
He said he has not been able to see his mother, in Managua, for two 
Restaurant Opportunities 
Are Awaiting You At the New 
NANCY'S WINilY CITY OPENING SjOON 
Seeking responsible individuals 
for the following posti:ons: *Pizza Makers *Cooks 
Bartenders *Food Servers *Bussers *Dishwashers *Cocktail Servers 
Apply in Person * Hosts/Hostess;es Monday thru Friday *Delivery Personnel 
Oct. 3·0ct. 7 
M t~ 
NANCY'S WINDY CITYG~ ~ell 1
2046 South Bend Ave. d;!~ ~ :·\ South Bend, IN 46637 L' \: t ~.1 !'l. 
mwwtes from Notre Dame JJ ~i_11~,AC.f~ 
(' '· ' ' -.------.--.. ....· ~-. ---· ...-­
years. His wife and children, he said, are in Costa Rica. 
"I talk to my family sometimes through a telephone-radio hookup, but I haven't seen them in many months," he said. 
Tadeo led a series of attacks by ARDE troops on the Nicaraguan military post at El Castillo on the San Juan River that started Sept. I5, his 13th wedding anniversary. He is now in charge of one of Pastora's three military zones along the river. 
"I moved in here a year ago with nine men," he said. "There are 700 of us in this zone now." 
Pastora claims to have about 3,700 armed men inside Nicaragu~ along the Costa Rican border anc the Atlantic region of the country. 
His forces man outposts along tht river, most of which he claims tc control. 
Hall lectures on resume, interviews 
By LAUREEN WOLFE 
News Staff 
"It is important for a company to know if you have a brain and leader­ship ability," said Janice Hall, per­sonnel officer at First Source Bank, in a speech to women business majors last night at Saint Mary's Col­lege. 
Hall spoke on job interviews and resumes at a lecture sponsored by the Finance Club. 
Hall dicussed the appropriate types, organization and contents of an effective resume. Her informal presentation permitted students to ask questions concerning the impor­tance of a grade point average and extra-curricular activities. Hall said, This paper (resume) should sell you." 
Relating her past experience with job interviews, Hall advised, "Be real and don't overdo it." 
Hall distributed forms to her audience with 50 questions fre­quently asked by employers during an interview with a college senior. Hall's advice was, "Frame your answers in your employer's terms, not just your own." 
She advised c,areer-oriented women, "The job market is tough; therefore, put your best foot for­ward." 


The Observer Wednesday, October 5, 1983-page 4 

.Lebanese 
Tremors force Italian town to flee 
Associated Press -a measure of ground motion on "Finally the schools have 
seismographs -burst the water reopened, but there are no buses to 
POZZUOLI, Italy-A pulsating un­pipes in her home. take my children there," she com­
derground volcano has rocked this "Hour after hour the tremors plained. 
once-quiet fishing town on the Bay come, the ground rumbles and you At the waterfront, workers are 
of Naples for the past IO months, run for cover. You never get used to building a ramp for ferries to link 
sometimes as often as I00 times a it," she said. Pozzuoli to the nearby island of Is· 
day, and forced thousands ofpeople In the town center, most stores il are 
to leave their homes. are shut after noon because of the boarded up, its I 20 inmates trans­
"The tremors have shaken the shortage of help. The cafes are half ferred to nearby prisons. The local town to its foundations and instilled empty, filled only w t ith the fisher­hospital operates with a skeleton a sense of mass hysteria," said Ric­men, artisans and factory workers staffand most residents go to Naples, cardo Boccia, the prefect of Naples, who say they can't alford to leave eight miles away, for treatment. who is coordinating government-aid their jobs. operations. Outside the elementary school, a Arturo Caccia Perugini, in charge 
Officials say 15,000 residents -woman gestured at a sign on the ofthe government's Civil Protection 
more than a fifth of the population door saying classes have been trans­Center, said most of the empty 
-have moved in with friends and ferred to prefabricated structures buildings were abandoned as a 
relatives or to nearby campsites set up in non-seismic areas on the precaution and because ofimminent 
since the tremors started. The jolts outskirts of town. danger. 
have cracked the foundations of 
houses and stores and forced the 
closing ofschools and a prison. 
• • .Relatives
Pozzuoli, best known for a few 
Roman ruins and as the birthplace of 
film star Sophia Loren, has become a continuedfrom page 3 from expanding into other 
center for disaster relief and scien· For now, for most, there is only countries," said Martin, ofAnderson, 
tific study. pain. "It's with me all the time," said S.C. 
Scientists say Pozzuoli is plagued Katz, a retired teacher whose 62· "I know what they did to that by bradyseism, a rising or sinking of year-old brother Jack died on the plane," he added. "My son's lying at the earth's crust caused by masses of flight. the bottom of the ocean, 3,000 feet molten rock churning below the Several of the bereaved said they deep. I still feel hate. That's the big· soil. were angry and disappointed -gest emotion." 
The phenomenon has been regis­angry at the Soviet Union for shoot­"It shows how godless the Soviets tered in this ancient city for more ing down the passenger plane, with are," said Gregg Burgess ofNewton, than 2,000 years. But last November 269 people aboard; disappointed at N.C., whose father, James, died on it began to strike with a frequency the U.S. response. the plane. "We need to continue to not seen since I538, when the bub· President Reagan has berated the put our missiles into Europe." bling underground lava erupted and Soviets for the attack, called for com· But Brian McNiff, of Malden, formed a massive crater known· as pensation and suspended talks on Mass., said he worried about the ten­Monte Nuovo (New Mountain) that new consulates. But U.S. grain and sions that have grown from the at· looms over the town today. technology sales continue. tack. 
Scientists say there is no im· "I don't think any ofus thinks that "I see much of the problem as a 
mediate danger of a volcanic erup­the government has done enough," result of this aggression and fear 
tion, and say that instruments said Lebow, of the Bronx, N.Y. "I that's going back and forth, and 
measuring the pressure underneath don't think we should push any but· stupidity on the Soviet part because 
the soil could predict an eruption tons, shoot down any Russian of that fear," said McNiff, whose 
weeks before it occurred. So far, no planes. But I think we do need very brother, Kevin, was on the flight. 
one has died and about a dozen strong economil: sanctions -and if Katz, of Queens, N.Y., said he 
people have been injured since the it hurts a little bit, we'll all tighten planned to contact the families of 
shakes r.csumed in November. our belts." other victims to start "a movement 
But that hasn't calmed the fears of "To us ·it's not satisfying," said to cut ourselves offfrom this gang of townspeople, who run down the Gisela Schwabe, who lost Hiroki butchers that is running Russia." cobblestone streets to the Haba, a Japanese friend who stayed waterfront each time they feel a this summer at her Scarsdale, N.Y., K41thryn McDonald, widow of tremor. home. "On the other hand, what Rep. Larry McDonald, D-Ga., anoth· 
"We have been living in terror for could have been done? Not another er victim, this week announced her months," said Giovanna De Lorenzo, world war." candidacy for the remainder of her a housewife who has been sleeping Others called for military husband's term. If elected, she said in a tent pitched in the town square vigilance. she would sponsor a congressional since Sept. 4, when a tremor "The only sol•Jtion is to keep our­resolution to "stop aid and trade to registering 3. 5 on the Richter scale selves armed and keep communism Communist countries." 
l coMPLETE compute• IPCCIGIIN
:.rutt•trod'­
401--~.~~ (2191 ~,_ 
At COMPUTO SPECIAliSTS, -comider dm.oes, monitors, ittlllrloc:et, and applications soft­ware as standard, not optional e.tra cost ON. Ewrythmg required to mok• the computet" do ewryday taslks is included. The KAYPIO is a com­pl.-lystwft. 
KAWfiD10 
'2795 
...... 
-·­

BRUNO'S II PIZZA 
(Across from Big "C" Lumber) 
Wednesday Only 
Bruno will deliver a 18" with any toppings for $9.00to campus FREE 
.-~··.. """ 1!11. 
277-4519 Open 4-11 7days a week 
continuedfrom page 1 
l.ebant.·se horder, and the shortest routl' to the ~ca from Damascus is through l.t:banon and the port dty of lkirut. Therc:fore. tht.· Syrians have a direct interest in overthrowing the pn·sl·nt Lebanese government and t.·stabli~hing one that is weaker and friendlier." 
"But if tht· U.S. fort.-cs remain prt'M'nt in Lebanon. and the Syrian~ realize that the good they can ac· complish is outwdght.·d hy tht· l"OSt of t·ontinuing the confliu, they'll he fon:ed to nt·gotiatt.·." 
In the past few weeks ll.S. forces havt.· become mort· active in the l.d1anl'Sl' conflict. In response to recent shelling and the deaths of tiwr li.S. Marinn. the: Reagan ad­ministration has authorized retaliatory artillery fire from battles· hips off the l.t.·haneS£· coaSf and air strike~ from tht.· F· l·l's on tht.· carrier 
li.S.S. Eist.·nhower. The ll.S. also is sending cargo planes ofammunition to lxhanest.· troop~. and F· 1-l's fly reconnaissarKe missions ovt·r Druse posilions in the Shouf mountains. 
Dowty said that the increased ll.S. involvt.·mcnt is justified because it will hdp bring about pt.·a<."l'. He adds. however. that there is a "natural limit" to ll.S. involvement in this war. saying that the tl.S. pn·sen<.T in l.t.·hanon should bt.· primarily a show of for<.'t.' to cotllltl'rhalanct· the Syrian intlut.·nn·. 
"'Thl· U.S. has to make it clear to the Lebanese government that our support won't be massive and that they can't rely on the U.S. to do their fighting," said Dowty. 
There won't he any quick peace, said Dowty. "Even if the Gcmaycl government and the rebel Muslim factions come to terms, the problem with the Syrians will remain. Even if unified. Lebanon will never be strong t.·nough to deal with the Syrians hy tht·mselvcs. They will need outside help." 
"The Syrians arc patient," he said. "They've been after Lebanon for years now and (Syrian President Hafez) Assad is shrewd. The U.S. has to show them that they arc going to continue to oppose them. If the Syrians see that they're running up against a wall, then they'll begin to nt:gotiatc." 
Dowty said he agrees with Presi· dent Reagan's decision not to invoke the War Powers Act whi,ch would call for Congressional approval of the dt·ployment of the U.S. troops or their withdrawal within 60 to 90 days. Instead, Congress and the Reagan Administration have reached a compromise agreement This agreement calls for the withdrawal of troops in 18 months. 
Dowty has been has been a mem­ber of the Notre Dame faculty for 8 yt·ars and rccl'ived his doctoral de· gree from the University of. Chicago. 
KANSAS 
CONCERT LOTTERY POSTPONED 
--DETAILS SOON-­

~~-~--------~ 
The Observer W'ednesday, October 5, 1983-page 5 
Electroni~cs in Silicon Glen fuel Scotland's industrial revolution 
Associated Press 
GLASGOW. Scotland-A second industrial revolution has >wept through Scotland's central lowlands, planting millions of microchip> in its wake. 
The Scots call it Silicon Glen. From Glasgow to Dundee, more than 270 companies are pumping out a torrent of computers. com­ponents. circuitry and program­ming. In the hard towns c1f the British north. it's badly needed busi­ness. 
A century ago, the first lnd Jstrial Revolution forged Scotland ,nto a powerhouse built on coal, steel and ships. 
But those fields withered in the 1980s recession. Scores of coal mines closed for lack of d t emand. Steel furnaces were banked, the or­ders going to West Germany and Japan. Shipbuilding slumped to its lowest level for decades, and the Clyde and Forth docks fell silent. 
Today, unemployment in Scot­land is 16 percent, more than three points higher than Britain's already high national average. 
But the same resourcefulness that made Scotland a cradle of the first Industrial Revolution has given it a jump on the second. 
Attracted by tax and investment incentives in the late 1950s and ear­ly '60s, electronics giants like IBM, 

APPhoto
Floral farewell 
A Christian Phalangist soldier gives flowers to a Druse refugee woman as she is about io return to the Druse community. Ap­proximately 200 Druse women and children had been housed by the Christians during the last two weeks. 
, 
Catering Dept. of St. Mary's College is currently in need of waiters/waitresses for a large ban­quet to be held on October 7. Please call Cindy at 284-5542 or stop into the dining hall office to apply. 
12:30 -4 Monda~,-Friday Haggar Ctr -3rd Floor 

Motorola, Burroughs, NCR and Hewlett-Packard established plants in Scotland or made it a hub of their 
European marketing effort.  
Today,  there's  hardly  a  major  
electronics  manufacturer  not  
represented in Silicon Glen.  

More than 42.500 people work in microelectronics in the glen, which arches from Ayr on the Irish sea to Glasgow on the Clyde to Edinburgh on the Firth of Forth to Dundee on the Firth ofTay. 
Salaries range f t rom between S7,500 and $9,000 for an unskilled worker on an assembly line, to about S21 ,000 a year for an engineering manager, says the Scottish Develop­ment Agency. That's about one-third 
cheaper than operating in the United States. Most of the new com­panies are non-union, and three­quarters ofthe American firms in the glen are non-union. 
"Microelectronics now employs more than the three traditional in­dustries -shipbuilding, coal and steel-put together," said Emrys In­ker, spokesman for the agency. 
Six major universities funnel graduates and research to the com­panies. The University of Edin­burgh's Wolfson Institute is among the world leaders in microelectronics. 
When Sir Clive Sinclair, the British electronics magnate, introduced his latest brainchild, the Sinclair Mini-
TV, he declared, "I couldn't have done this anywhere else." The 2-inch screen mite, to be produced at Sinclair's Timex manufacturing plant in Dundee, is billed as the world's smallest televi­sion set. It's half the size and half the price of the rival Sony Watchman, in­troduced nine months earlier. Sinclair calls its display tube and microchip circuitry a "major breakthrough ...The chip alone has more patents than any chip in the world." Eventually, the Dundee plant will be making 1 million sets a year. The development agency's lnker says Scotland has another big ad­vantage for manufacturers proximity to the European, and par­ticularly the British, market. 
As a source of consumer spend­ing, the I0-nation European Economic Community now out­ranks the United States. And Britain has more home computers and home videotape recorders per per­
son than any other country in the world, according to Trade Depart­
ment statistics. 
' 
Montgomery Elevator Company. Moline. Illinois 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co .. Limited. Toronto. Ontario M983S5 Offices m pnncipal cit1es of North America 
·.. ·-:..··..·_..._.....·.. . ...·..•..·-·...·,..·....•.........__•......•..•...·-·....•......·.-....•..........4-·4·.·..·......·..·.. 

The Obsen'f:'t'/Pau/ Clfarelli 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, Universi~y president gives annual address to the faculty. The content ofthe speech u•as not allowed for release in the Observer. 
Audit causes license mar1ager's resignation 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The manager of the Mishawaka automobile license branch resigned after state auditors detected a $246,319 cash shortage at the branch, officials said yesterday. The State Board of Accounts, which conducted the audit, referred its report to the St. Joseph County grand jury and the state attorney general's office for possible legal ac­tion. The branch manager, Donald Sprague, submitted his resignation on Monday. according to Don Bays, chief deplllty commissioner of the Indiana Bu:reau of Motor Vehicles. No replace·ment has been named yet, Bays sa1id. 
continuedfrompage 1 
tween Tucson and Phoenix, remained closed yesterday as Gila River floodwaters undermined bridge approaches. 
Helicopters on Monday night and early yesterday airlifted an es­timated I 50 people out of the path 
mrontgomery® 
NOTICE to all students interested in TECHNICAL SA.LES/MGMT. career positions. 
. MONTGOMERY ELEVATOR COMPANY wi~l be re~resented on ~ampus TUESDAY, OC:TOBER 11, for a 
pn~sentation 
and reception at 7:30p.m. Dc,nor's Room, Morris Inn. Refreshments and snacks will be served. 
montgomery 
ELEVATORS ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EOUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
The Board of Accounts has in­itiated another audit of the Misha­waka branch for the period between 
Aug. 22. when the other audit ended, and Oct. 3, when Sprague resigned, Bays said. 
Sprague earlier had stepped down from his post as Mishawaka Republican chairman. 
The audit, which covered the period from Jan. 1 through Aug. 22, 1983, revealed a $107.599 shortage in the account in which state fees were to be deposited and a S 1 38,391 shortage in the excise tax account. There was another S327 in branch fees due on work not processed, the report said. 
• • .Flood 
of floodwaters in and near Stanfield, a farm town 70 miles northwest of Tucson, said National Guard Col. Pete Tossi. 
A national Guard helicopter made an emergency landing 5 miles north of Stanfield after it developed mec­hanical problems, Tossi said. None of the four crewmen was injured, but the helicopter t was stuck in several feet of mud. 
Lou Parrish, a Tucson developer, watched the Santa Cruz River devour his 5-month-old, $1.2 mil­lion office complex over the weekend. 
"A thousand dollars a minute," he said. "There's no insurance. I'm done." 
Mary Jane Hoffsmith of Tucson, standing where her family's townhouse had been until the Rillito River washed it away Sunday, said, "We lost everything, all our furniture, our television and stereo and my diamond rings. We just didn't believe them when they came Saturday afternoon and told us to evacuate. We didn't think it could do this." 
Consultants to Multinational firms seek qualified mdivtduals w1th language and area expertise on foreign markets. Our clients prefer foreign nationals with advanced degrees from American Univer­sities. Visa restrictions might not apply to some of the available projects. Part-time and full-time assignments available. Fee Paid. 
Send resume or request for application form to 
Swenson, Crawford & Paine Dept B-33 P0. Box A3629 Chicago. Illinois 60690 


Vieweoint 
Wednesday, October 5, 1983-page 6 
Reagan's rhetoric and the United Nations 
Social life not Notre Dame's fault 
P. 0. BoxQ 
Recent rhetoric from the Reagan ad­ministration raises further doubt about the coherence and viability of its foreign policy. Although the initial administration response to the downing ofthe KAL jetliner was surpris­ingly reserved and calm, later comments by 
Michael Skelly 
Back again 
Reagan, Bush, and U.S. delegate to the ll.N. Charles Litchenstein point to the fact that Reagan is formulating foreign policy and rhetoric for domestic political consumption rather than in the long-term interests ofglobal stability. 
The decision by the governors of New York and New jersey to limit Soviet Foreign Minis­ter Andrei Gromyko's landing facilities, and Reagan's apparent acquiescence to this deci­sion raises the question of who is making U.S. foreign policy. By keeping Gromyko from the 
U.N. opening session the United States jeopardized the ability ofthe U.N to act as an essential forum for the discussion of interna­tional issues. It was not the UN. who shot down the jet, and its ne-atrality should not be threatened before it can begin serious discussion ofthis grave incident. 
Litchenstein's off the cuff remark that the UN. should look into moving from 
U.S. soil is short-sighted and unproductive. The administration should be striving to focus world attention on the brutality of the Soviet attack, not engaging in meaningless and coun­terproductive rhetoric. Reagan is unneces­sarily diverting attention from the downing of the jet and failing to capitalize on the Soviet error. Furthermore, off-hand remarks like Litchenstein's should not be the basis for foreign policy positions. Reagan's endorse­ment of Litchenstein's comments indicates the lack of coherent long-range thinking that 
goes into his administration's foreign policy. 
No wonder our allies have difficulty support­
ing us when contentious rhetoric dominates 
so much ofReagan's foreign policy. 
If Reagan is serious about his suggestion 
that the United Nations spend six months a 
year in Moscow "to see two ways of life," he 
should raise the issue after careful considera­
tion, not in simple knee-jerk support for an 
obvious guffaw by Litchenstein. In any event, 
the issue will probably quietly fade away, as 
Reagan failed to raise the it . in his Monday 
address to the U.N. General Assembly. 
Kicking around the U.N. is no doubt good 
for some political gain domestically, and 
relatively inexpensive at that. Regardless of 
one's feelings about the UN., it is clear that 
Reagan's rhetoric is doing nothing to further 
discussion on either the proper role of the 
U.N. or the present deterioration ofEast-West relations. 
Vice President George Bush's saber-rattling speech in Austria is further cause for despair at the poverty of this administration's rhetoric. In it he called on the Soviet Union's East European allies to make a choice "between the West or locking themselves in to societies based on ignorance, backward­ness and poverty." 
Such name-calling ignores the tough and delicate geopolitical realities that these countries face. It can only make it more dif­ficult for these countries over whom the Soviet Union all too menacingly lurks. Bush's speech also hurts those countries currently engaged in delicate economic and political experiments, which could cause improve­ments for the people ofEastern Europe. 
Strong stands are necessary in dealing with the Soviet Union. Name calling and other varieties of meaningless rhetoric, however, are no way to conduct an enlightened foreign policy. They only lead to a confusion of the issues and reduce the likelihood of con­structive dialogue on the urgent issues facing the world today. 
A popular joke about the life here is, "Notre Dame -where men are men, wom<:n arl· scarl'l', and the shet·p arc nl·rvous." 
Soml· studt·nts ft-d thl-social life here kavt·s a little to he desired. Notre Dame is ht·­hind the times. Thne is nothing to do here on Wt'l'kl·nd~ t'Xl'l'pt go to parties and get drunk, 
Michael McClory 
As it is 
gt·t drunk and go to movies, or, of course, JUSt get drunk. Thl·st· arl· daims people make. 
Students want l'Vents, activities -soml·­thing to he entertained hy. No one knows ex­actly what -a howling alley, a theatre, a new swimming pool. I suhmitthat were many or all of the requested improvements made, little about the social life would change. 
Social life has morl· in its constitution than al'livities and places. This problem in social life is deeper than just hl·re at Notre Dame. It spans society; many communities are finding tlu·msel\-es bored with cirl·umstance. 
The most important concept to be dis­cussed is the constitution of social life. If it is not activities and places which make for suc­cessful social life, what is it? The largest com­ponent is communication. There is not enough communication today to maintain the social life which people long for. 
Society today specializes in saying nothing. The: tour de force of saying nothing is the slogan. People today are slogan happy. "Think mink." "The real thing." "4 out of 5 dentists surveyed." 
The: facts, the significant data, receive little or no attention. People stare at television sets while some epicene man admonishes them, "Don't squeeze the Charmin." People used to pay no attention to someone who peddled two-ply tissue, but today he is listened to. Charmin is the top selling toilet tissue. The slogan has replaced communication. 
When slogan dominates, the expression of multiple thoughts is difficult. Having fewer ideas exchanged causes a migration of at­titude to the center. It breaks down the diver­sity in people and gives rise to the status symbol. 
People at Notre Dame probably have a dif­ficult time understanding this term, but it is quite simple. People buy the same items, dress the same way, use the same toilet tissue. 
In this is the root of the problem, the ex­pl;mation for declining social life, for the lack ofcommunication. A non-diverse people, one that is centric by nature, is afraid to commun­icate. 
It holds the slogan up as the standard be­cause it is safe. Talk becomes banal. People desire real communication, but security is precious. There is security in the slogan, in the center. 
Today's society relies on technology; tomorrow's will rely just that much more on it. People become soft because of this depen­dency. The conventions of yesterday are of less importance as we become more automated. 
'The direction this technology has turned society is not good. It could have provided more time for better communication, but it has instead led to a unique phenomena ­vicarious living. People today are weak, con­tent to live their lives through the lives of the select few individuals who move away from the center. 
People worship heroes and antiheroes. The hero worship is obvious -the muscician, the athlete, the comedian. People, however, also worship antiheroes just as much. A typical set of headlines on the evening news may be this: "Tonight's top stories -nurse beheaded in Satanic ritual, man wearing leotards leaps to death offofcity hall building, woman kills her son and impales selfon machete...." 
In a gut way, people feel real excitement because of these antiheroes. It may seem ter­rible, but the feeling is that these freaks are living more . This is not healthy. 
To recognize a social life problem at Notre Dame is commendable. To blame the school is ridiculous. The problem is much larger ­society wide. The answer is not to seek out a goat and place blame. The answer is to admit the depth of the problem and to begin to change it in your own little corner of exist­ence. 
Irish fan? 
Deur Editor: 
Pat Haden said on National TV last Saturday that whl·n he asked Blair Kid about fan critidsm afier the Michigan State game. Blair said that he, "couldn't let that bother him" since he was out there just to huve some fun. llave some fun? lie's g<:tting thousands ofdol­lars in free education to play football, and he's there to have some fun? What a disgrace to 
Notr<: Dame pride and tradition! 
But it's hardly all Kiel's fault. Gerry Faust 
and his staff have nurtured and fed his ego for 
four yl·ars, so why should we expect anything 
elsl'? 
In over 40 yt·ars of rooting for the Irish, I have nt•ver been as ashamed of a Notre Dame football team as I was that night. They were totally unprepared, playing with a sub­standard quarterback, using a pathetic assort­ment ofplays being sent from the bench. 
If your fine newspaper and student body don't start demanding and getting some changes made then I think ND football fans should boycott the games. I, for one, will do just that. 
]. Tiersack · Chester, Pa. 
Letter policy 
Editor's note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily constraints of the page. They must bear the address, 1 telephone number, and signature of the : author(initials andpseudonyms are not ac­ceptable). Letters must be well written and typed. Material shorter than 250 words will receir•e priority. All letters are subject to editing and become the property ofThe Ob­
server. 
Editorial Board Department Managers ,.,..L-========= Editor-in-Chief ___ ... __ . ___ . ___ David Dziedzic /lox{!. Nfo/r(' Ocum•. /,\' -lb <; <;r. t.!II)) .!J<.J-5JOJ Managing Editor ___ .. _____ ... Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . __ . _ . __ ....... Daniel O'Hare lbl' ()h.~err•er i' rlw mdt·pt·ndl'nt rll'w~papt·r puhli~hed h\ the studt:nts of the Uni­Executive Editor . . __ .. _ . __ .. _... _Paul McGinn Controller . ....... , . _. _.... __ . ___ Alex Szilvas \'t·r~ll\' of Notrt· l>anll' du l.al· ami Saint Man··~ Collegl' It dot·s not nel·essarih· reHel·t 
News Editor ____ _.. __ . _-. _ . __ Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .. _ . _.... _.. __ Chris Owen thl· pt.llint·~ ol thl' adnuni~tration of l'ithe~ institution. Thl· news i~ reportl·d as al­News Editor ______ .. _.. _... ___ ~ark Worscheh Composition Manag!!r _.. __ . __ . Suzauuc i..a Croix curatdv ami a~ ohtlTIJn·t,· as po~~•hle l n~igned editoriab repre~t·nr the opinon ofa Saint Mary's Editor. ___ . _ . __ .. f\nnc·.Monasi~IIU• •· .Circulation Manager. _ . __ .·-....... Mark Miotto marorirv ol tlu-hluonal Board. Comnll'ntarin. letH·rs. and thl' ln~idt· Column present Features Editor . .. -.. --. --.. --. Sarah Hamilto11 System Manager . _ . _... __ . _.. _. Kevin Williams 
Photo Editor . _.. _ . __ .. __ .. _... _ . Scott Bower 
tht· \'lt'ws ollhl'lr ;~uthor' ( :olumn span· 1s a\·ailahk to all members of the n1mmunitv. Sp11rts /:'dit11r.. . .... \lid1ael Sullivan
;md tht·lrn· exprl·~·'"'n ofvJn·in~opmums on campus.throu~h letter~. i~ t·nnluraged. Founded November J, 1966 

Sho~rcase 
Wednesday, October 5, 1983-page 7 
Movies 
Miss Manners 
Prorrtiscuous coddlers beware 
by Judith Martin 
Y
ou there, all you wonderful, warm, cuddlyspreadersofhappi­ness who advocate, and practice, hugging everybody in sight, whetheryou knowthem or not, just to make a connectionfrom one human being to another-Miss Manners has a small request for you. 
Please keep your hands to yourselfor she will call the police. 
Poor Miss Manners realizes that this is an unsympathetic position, seeming, as it does, to favor frigidity, and aloofness. Etiquette already suffers from the widespread idea that its opposite is warmth. No­thing could be further fromt the truth: It is possible to be warm and have good manners, but very difficult to be warm, in its kindest sense, and rude. 
And well-meaningornot, inflictingintimacyon people who don't 
want it is unspeal<ably rud(, not to mention contemptuous oftheir 
feelings. 
When Miss Manners was a slip ofan innocent girl, there was a 
popular argument among adolescent boys to the effect that anyone 
not always agreeable to be~;towing her affections on whoever asked 
-or at least on the boy m~iking the argument -was seriously 
damaged in the psychological department. Should the la:iy indeed 
prove psychologically sound, she would discover, after the fact, that 
the same gentleman believed that generous affection was not the 
kind ofhealthy quality he <onsidered suitable in a wife. 
It was not a nice era in which to be a trusting girl, and Miss Man­
ners had thought we had seen the last ofit. But now we have various 
mental health propagandists advocating promiscuity in social hug­
ging, with the same argument. 
The case, typically put by a psychotherapist who was recently fired for hugging patients, colleagues, other employees ofa hospital and everyone else who walked in the door, is that this shows a caring nature, similar to that exhibited by happy families in which hugging is a frequent ritual. 
One must then come oul: either for or against hugging. Miss Man­ners hates to be troublesome, but she finds herselfunable to take either position. Ifshe believes in the benefits ofthe family hug, or those ofcertain people she prefers not to name, does that mean she also has to accept the hugs ofporcupines, masked men in alleys and other proponents ofjoy anx:ious to enrich her life? 
Social kissing is ridiculous enough these days, but at least it takes place among people who have agreed to socialize with one another and does not pretend to b( a boon to humanity. And for that matter, unrequested therapy has reached silly proportions,_ and Miss Man­ners often hears from people who have grown weary oftheir ac­quaintances asking what the matter is and offering advice -when the only thing the matter is that their faces have relaxed momentari­ly from the smiling position. 
It is precisely thisemotionalcontent that makes the gesture objec­tionable to many people. Hugging need not, in a conventional context, be more than an expression of mere sociability, not much more intimate than a handl;hake. There are some families and cultures that use the hug au a standard greeting between friends ­making it a form one cannot reject without the apparent intent to repulse. In no culture, however, are respectable, free people ex­pected to accept the embraces ofstrangers. 
The type ofhugging Mis:; Manners isdiscussingis intended to con­vey, "It doesn't matter who you are -I love and accept everyone," which at best is not particularly flattering. It also precludes the recipient's conveying that it does matter to him whose touch he receives, and leaves him sc~arching for a not-so-warm gesture that conveys, "You cut that oul this minute, or else." 
DearMiss Manners An •ex-lover has been calling my house after midnight almost every night for the last three months. He neversays anything, just hangs up assoonas Isay hello. I know that he willdeny responsibility ifI confront him directly, and my roommates do not wish to change the telephone number. Can you suggest away to per­suade him to stop these a11noying phone calls? 
Gentle Reader Certainly. Invite your brother, or somebody else's trusted brother, for a midnight snack. Have him pick up the telephone and say as iftailing to you but so the caller can hear, "It's jeremy! Nowwill you give me his address so I can go overand show him what I think ofthis?" Alternatively, answer the telephone your­seU: not by saying "Hello, "but by whispering breathily, "Samuel, darling!" one night, "Kurt, darling!" the next, and so on -anything but the caller's name. 
Ifit is not your ex-lover calling, but your mother who wanted to check that you were safely in but didn't want to seem to be afteryou, you will be in big trouble. 
DearMiss Manners Rec:ently, I attended a luncheon at a friend's home. I had just taken my place at the table when I noticed, much to my amazement, that the hostess had lighted tapers on the table. I was appalled. 
Not wanting to make an issue ofit, I said nothing. How may I in­
form the hostess ofher error without causing embarrassment? I fear 
ifl don't tell her, she miglitt commit the ghastly usurpation again. 
Gentle Reader You have already done the correct thing. It is true that etiquette require:; one to refrain from the daytime lighting of a single candle, but it also forbids one to curse the behavior of those who are in the dark about the rule of waiting for tb~darkness....,; 
Feeling incorrect? Address your etiquette quistions (in black or blue-black ink on white writing paper) to Miss Manners. in care of this newspaper. 
The Big Chill is no big thrill 
by Stephen thomas 
features staffwriter 
This year the annual New York 
.1 Film Festival will be a launching pad for nine new American films. One such film receiving a lot of media attention is "The Big Chill." "The Big Chill" was sneak previewed here in South Bend on September 24 and opened national­ly on September 30. 
"The Big Chill" deals with nine 
former college students who have 
separated over the years and are 
reunited by the suicide ofone of 
their friends. Among the cast are 
several fine young, yet ac­
complished actors and actresses. 
The movie features Tom Bergner as Sam, a television private eye who thinks that his showhas no meaning; 
JeffGoldblum as Michael, a gossip writer for People magazine;John 
Hurt (Altered States) as Nick, a vic­
tim ofdrug abuse; Glenn Close as 
Sarah, a material success as a doctor, 
yet unsuccessful in other aspects of 
her life; Mary Kay Place as Meg, a 
lawyer who has lost certain aspects 
oflife due to her emphasis on work; 
Meg Tilly as Chloe, a young girl who 
is unable to empathize with the rest 
ofthe group; Kevin Kline as a suc­
cessful and happy businessman and 
)o Beth Williams as Karen, an unhap­
py, suburban housewife. 
Most ofthe film deals with the ex­change ofthoughts and ideas that take place when the friends are to­gether. The nine Univ~rsity ofMichi­gan graduates talk about who they've become since their last COlll­tact with one another. The question arises as to whether they have truly lived up to the ideals they fought for in the 60s. Most ofthem, ironically, have ended up in "The Establish­ment" that tht~y once fought agains~. 
The characters say that they find themselves doing things they never thought they would be doing in their respective careers. Miehael, for instance, who had always had a con­cern for good journalism, finds him­selfwriting for a gossip magazine. Many ofthe characters agree also that they wert! "at their best" when they were together at school. They all feel that thc:irstandardsand ideals have faltered ~;omewhat since their college years. 
At times, "The Big Chill" has a lot to say about how people and times change. It is alt these times that "The Big Chill" is impressively realistic and it is easy to identify with the character's feelings. At other times, "Chill," presents the characters as complacent, stoic, and proclaiming 
a "Well, that's life" attitude. 
The characters are confused, they never really make up their minds as to whether they went the right way or not. Unfortunately, this confusion dampens "The Big Chill." What it is trying to say is often obscured by its mixture ofattitudes toward itself. 
Thus, "The Big Chill" is sometimes a made for television comedy and, at other times, a melodramatic comment on life. It is this confusion which leaves the audience with nothing truly con­crete to take home. "The Big Chill" tries too hard to be something it never becomes. The characters seem to come to the conclusion, "that's the way it is." Perhaps ifthe characters and the film could have tried a little harder, it wouldn't have to be "the way it is." 

A tale of a dieter's woes 
by Marc RamirE~z 
feature..t~ columnist 
Rollover, Edgar. 
Seat yourseU: my friend; Fate has been kind enough to allow me to tell you my story, mirabile dictu ifever there was. 
It was only by chance that I hap­pened to request ofmy friend)ohn, the opportunity to perhaps accom­pany him on the next occasion on which he undertook the activity of weightlifting. 
To which he quite amiably replied, "Sure, oldfriend. Howabout Tuesday next?" 
This proposition was acceptable to my person, and thus I agreed wholeheartedly. 
Tuesday next found my friend in good spirits. We met on the third floor ofthe building in which we lived It was a magnificent structure, grand in its antiquity, its interior an infinite series ofhallways and cor­ridors. This building we had in­habited for a period ofmore than two years, and we shared the residence with 160 other fools of this earth. 
We made our way outside and traversed the Notre Dame campus, finally reaching our destination, the · Rockne Memorial. 
"Our purpose is that ofgetting you into shape, dear pal," said my friend 
I thought the term "our" to be somewhat odd in this instance, but said nothing. We entered the build­ing and set about our task ofgetting me in shape. 
Every dar,,~ereafter for several days, my friend and I would make our way to the Rock to stretch and strain and sweat for 90 minutes. 
On these occasions, I noticed cer­
tain exchanges between my friend and the courtly gentleman at the entrance, though the two attempted 
to conceal thdr communication. They gave th•~ appearance ofregard­ing me with (:onsiderable interest, and found it quite difficult to hide 
their mutual yet unexplainable sentiments olf joy the eve on which I announced that nine pounds had been lost from my material person. 
The following morning as I sat down to my breakfast meal, I was joined by Kathy, a fair lady equalled in beauty by no maiden. She was a heaverrly vision -an opium dream -and she made known her presence by seizing the doughnut which I had intended to devour upon complc:tion ofmy scrambled eggs. "No! You must not, dear sir!" the fair lady cried, whereupon she stabbed the helpless doughnut repeatedly until it was nothing more than a heap ofdough. 
I sat in wonder, and looked to her for an explanation. "So," said ~•he, "nine pounds you have cast away, have you?" 
"While this may be true," said I, "I observe no r•eason that you should attack my br•~akfast. I shall procure another dou1~ut, dear woman." 
I departed from the table and has­tened to the serving area. Then amazement took hold ofme as I wondered how the lady Kathy had known ofmy weight loss. A certain sensationofJ[>aranoia seized me in an instant and was gone. 
I reached for a doughnut but 
found nothing in my grasp. The 
woman behiind the counter had 
removed ev•ery pastry from its plate! 
My eyes ple;lded but I was stared 
down. Can i1t be, I thought to myself, 
that all are against me? 
I made my way toward the hot breakfast queue, and awaited my tum. "I will have the hash browns," I declared to the young maiden who was serving. 
"Verily I say unto thee," said she, "you will not have the hash browns." Her countenance was cruel and accusing, and I found myselfshaken, and took flight. 
I pushed my way out ofthe dreaded dining hall, aching for the safety ofmy own room. As I reached my dormitory, four residents were leaving the premises and com­mented on my weight loss, promis­ing that Fate would not be kind ifI regained a single pound. 
"What, have Igone mad?" I said to 
myselfas I ascended the stairs. An 
idea flashed through my mind and I 
hastened to a room inhabited by the 
eminent Mark Huber, who was 
known to keep a ready supply of 
consumables on hand in his room. 
On his door I found this poem, 
addressed to me: 
There comes a time to abandon those 
pleasuressuch as Domino's. 
Little shallyou have in store 
When the belly shallgrowl, but eat no more. 
Alas, so it was true! My fellow man 
had turned against me! Fever rushed 
to my head and flooded my being. I 
had to get out ofthat wicked place, 
to depart from this decadence. I ran 
through the hallways and corridors 
until I was free, away from them all; I 
feared I had gone insane. 
But, my friend, I am here with you 
today, driven out ofmy own dorm, 
and I tell you my s~ory so that you 
will know this: eat, drink, and be 
merry, for tomorrow you may find 
yourselfin an unadvertised weight 
loss program. 
And you ask, will I ever overeat 
again? 
Nevermore! 
I 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Clubwm hold its first meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the third floor gymnastics room ofthe Rockne Memorial. For more details. contact Pat Toole at 277-7571 or Matt Kelleher at 1206. -The Obsen1er. 
The Saint Mary's tennis teambeat Manchest~r 
Collc:gt· yesterday to make: its rt:cord 7·2 At No. I singles, Deb Launic: beat Wendy Hillgoss 6-0, 6-1. At No.2 singks, Caroline: Zern downed Shelly Wagonir 6-0, 6-0. Christin Bt:ck beat Janice Strycki 6-0. 6·2 at third singks. In the fourth slot, Mary Ann Heckman ddc:atc:d Denise Clark 6-0, 6-0. At No. 5 singles, Heather Temofecw demolished Jill Bolzc 6·0, 6·0. Lastly, Allison Pcllar beat Carla Wil­liams 6-0, 6-1. In doubles, the tirst team of Zern and Temotfcw beat Wagonir and Stryckie 6-0, 6·1. The No. 2 doubles team of Heckman and Karen Brady defeated Hillgoss and Tracy Price 7-5, 6-4. At the end of the day, Betsy Boyle and Karie Casey had little trouble with 
Bolzc and Clark 6·1, 6-4. -The Obseroer. 
The Notre Dame Women's Golf team 
will have a short meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Corby Hall. Those who cannot attend should call Julie. -The Obseroer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will be meeting tonight at' p.m. in Room 20 of Hayes-Healy. All arc invited to attend. -The Obsen1er 
Saint Mary's basketball try-OU!S wi~l.start 
Sunday, October 9 from 1-.3 p.m. in the Angela Athletic FaCJhty. A non-mandatory scrimmage tomorrow from 6:.30-H:30 p.m. All are invited to participate. -The Obseroer 
Wednesday, October 5, 1983-page 8 
All interested in officiating either women's flag football or soccer, please stop by the Non-Varsity Athletics office or call 2 39-61 00. -The Obseroer. 
The Wind Surfing Club is having a meeting Satur­
day, Octobn Hat 2 p.m. at St. Joe's beach. All members arc asked to bring proofofinsurance. All are invited to attend. -The Obseroer. 
The ND women's trackandcross country team is looking for anyone with a knowledge of track and who might be interested in coaching the team. Those interested should contact Rosemary Buckle 6232 or Tricia Booker at 6868. -The Obseroer. 
New YorkJets Mark Gastineau and Ken O'Brien were charged with third-degrt:c assault yesterday after a melee at the dis­co Studio 54 last week. The two football players went to the Mid­town North Precinct in Manhattan where they were issued desk appearance tickets and released pending later court appearances. Third-degree assault, a misdemeanor, is punishable by up to a year in jail and fines up to S I ,000. The two men pressing charges on Gas­tineau and O'Brien areJohn Benson of Manhattan and Peter Fernan­dez ofJersey City. Both men suffered broken noses in the brawl. ­
AP 
Tomorrow 
SMC tennis vs. IUPU 3:45p.m. St. Mary's 
Friday 
soccer vs. Findlay 8:00p.m. Cartier Field 
Cross Country ND Invitational Burke Mem. golf course 
SMC volleyball vs. U. of Mich.-Dearborn 6:00p.m. Angela 
The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. Tht Obstrvtr Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open from 11:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either In person or by
Classifieds mail Charge is ten ents per seven characters, per day. 

NOTICl:o 
Typong ALL KINDS 277-8534 after 5:30 
2001 
Thurs& Fro 
7.9:30.12 PM KotCHall $1. Members Free 
CHEESESTEAK CHEESESTEAK CHEESE STEAK CHEESE STEAK 
HELP. Lost valuable class nng. WILL PAY REWARD.NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 2876277. HOWIE ENDAD 
LOST: Key chaon w/6 keys on a green floating boat key chaon. NO. 8239. 
LOST: Annotated New Oxford Boble. left behind in Monday 9/26 at 2:30 p.m. in Room 328 Computer Center /Math Buold· ong. Please return to office ot Lost/Found (Admonostratoon Building) Thanks Ber­nard Deprez. 
LOST: LADIES MAROON WALLET CONTAINING $.DRIVER'S LICENSE.PHOTOS. OTHER ID IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LAURA AT NO 2989. 
LOST: roll of Film. t 35-24exp. 400 ASA. Lost at South dinong hall poctures are ir­replacable. please call Lobby at ·3435 
LOST: NAVY BLUE BASKIN SPORT JACKET AT P.E. SYA SAT NITE IF YOU HAVE BY MISTAKE PLEASE CALL BOB AT t441 
lOST Woman's gold Setko watch. Lost near Grotto. Please call277-3409 
LOST: 1 BLUE BOOKBAG. TAKEN FROM THE SOUTH DINING HALL MON.,OCT. 3 PLEASE RETURN TO BRIAN LEE (X6741) AS SOON AS POs­SIBLE. OR AT LEAST PUT IT BACK IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL 
FOR RENT 
wanted 2 roomates tor N.D. apts. call 2349116 or 1101 
WANTED 
New/semoused 8 track tapes. any style music. Mark 283-7140 evenongs. 
Responsoble babysitter needed part time days tor infant and three year old in my home tusl north ot campus. Sitter wolh own child ol<. Call Jennifer 239-7278 Mon­Fn. 
WANTED Two riders to Dallas tor Oc­tober break. I will be leaving friday October 21st. Call Chuck at1156. 
We hoped, but the dreem dl" h8111. There mullt be • drummer out tiNore eomewiNore In liMo N.D.-S.M.C. 18nd8. We would Ilk• to pley .....,. techno­denc:e. II lnterellted, c•ll Rob 81 233­4280. 
For Sale:NEW Wilson Statt irons ..$350 Call Larry ... 1638 
AVAILABLE: 2 USC lix. Call (215) 238­9052 after 5 pm. 
FOR SALE: COMPLETE HOCKEY GEAR-CCM HELMET BAUER JUNIOR SUPREME SKATES, SIZE 8 GLOVES, PANTS, SHOULDER PADS, SOCKS & GARTER BELT. $50.00 FOR ALL CALL 272-7011. 
CHEESESTEAK CHEESESTEAK CHEESESTEAK CHEESESTEAK CHEESESTEAKCHEESESTEAK 
RIDES 
CINCINNATI!CINCINNATIICINCINNATII I Desperately need a ride to Cincinnati this weekend. Will share usuals. Call DAVE at 1165. 
AIDE needed to EAST LANSING Froday.Oct 7 Please call David at 1105. 
D•n from NJ This is Ted. your ride home the weekend ot the 8th. Call 1779 d you still want to go. 
Ride wanted to/from Detrort area OCT 719 John 8318 will share costs 
Need ride to U ot I Champaign Oct. 14-16 DESPE AA TE I Share costs call Fran 2270 
TICKETS 
Desperately need Penn Stale game licl<­ets. Call Brian at 8795. 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2845084 
USC-NO tix wanted. Paying most. (312) 246-4650. 
NEED 2 TICKETS FOR USC AND/OR Pin OR AIR FORCE. CALL JIM AT 1501 
$$ NEED MANY USC TIX $$ CALL SUE 284-5173 
NEED 4 NAVY GA's. CALL STEVE AT 7980. 
N;..,d Non-stu~nt tickets to NO vs USC. Call collect. (312) 565-5959 •2013 or x2233. 
NEED 2 TO USC GAME FOR "GOOD OL' DAD"! Please call DAVE at8919 
... Ooooo000P••••000•00 0000000000000 ............. 
I desperately need 3 GA's or student tick­ets to the Pitt game. H you can help call Karen at 284-4278. Will pay BUC:K$$111 
5408 
Need 6 GA Pitt. tlx. Must be in grps. ot 3 or more. 239-5845 Steve. 
REALLY.REALLY NEED 4(0R 6) TICK­ETS TO Pin GAMEI!CALL BILL NO. 1763 
Need4NAVY GA.'s. Call Mo7812orTom 3558. 
I NEED 4-6 USC GAs AND 1 USC STU­DENT TICKET: CALL PAT NO. 1238 
HELP! MOM& DAD HAVE NEVER SEEN AN NO GAMEl NEED 2 GA's FOR USC OR NAVY. CALL DEBBIE 284·4372 
Help! Need USC lix, student or GA. Call Steve at 8638 
NEED USC STUDENT OR GA TIX-CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME 
Need NAVY slud.&GA's x1695 
NEED4NAVYTIX.CALLCHRISAT1201 
NEED 4 NAVY GA's Call Pete 3114 
Have 1 USC GA. Need 1 Pitt. GA or Stud. Willing to trade. Call Tracy 277-7232. 
Need 1 USC and 1 Navy ticket. Call Amy al4684. 
I NEED 10G.A.'STOTHE U.S.C. GAME. WILL PAY ANY AMOUNT FOR THESE TICKETS AND THEY NEED NOT BE TO· GETHER. PLEASE CALL 1779 And ASK FOR DAN. 
HELPI Parents will disown us It we don't get them Pin TIX. Call Pat at1068 or Jeanne al284-4167. 
Need two G. A.'s tor the Pitt. game. Call Kelly 284·4074. 
I need 3 Navy GA's. Call Theresa 284­5442 
HELP!Need 2 USC or 3 Pin GA'S. Please call JIM at 8738. 
WANTED: 4-6 GA Tix to each ot the lollowing home games: USC, Pitt and Penn State. Call Tom Hollerbach collect at: 312/565-5959 Ext. 2081. 
need two Pitt GAs call Bill 8395 
............................................................. 
NEED 3or 4 GAs lor ANY HOME Game. 
COULD MEAN EMPLOYMENT. Call 
STEVE at 232-0550. 
NEE.o 2 G~A>S..FOR..N.AVv. WILL PAY 
$$$CALL TOM 1423 
HELPI Need 2 Pin GA's. Call Sue at 8050. 
need Pitt or Navy G.A.s call Ted at288 0137 
.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Need 2 or more Pin GA. TIX: Tom at 3331 or3332 
PERSONALS 
IF YOU HAVE OR HAVE NOT REGis­TERED FOR THE DRAFT, HAVE QUEs­TIONS ABOUT CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION, DEFERMENTS, EXEMP­TIONS, THE CHURCH'S POSITION ON BEARING ARMS ... CONTACT MAR­GARET GARVEY, CAMPUS MINISTRY, BADIN HALL (239-5242) FOR DRAFT AND MIUTARY COUNSELLING. 
I HAVE 4 PITT TICKETS, AND I NEED USC GA'S. WILLING TO TRADE TICK­ETS OR PAY MONEY FOR USC GA'S. Co,LL JERRY AFTER 8 AT x1783. 
THEO MAJORS: Tonight lit 10:00 PM join ProfHeora Storey end O'Mewa In 
•n lntorm•l dlacuaalon -room 115 HowardH•II. 
DOMER SIX MILE RUN -OCT. 8. 10 a.m. ·sign up at NVA-T-shlrts and trophies. 
Great Science Fiction 
2C01 
Thurs& Frl 
Sponsored by the K ot C 
JEFF. TED. TOM! HOLY CROSS-THE UGLY PARTY! ONE MORE ROUND OF TURTLE I WATCH OUT-KAMIKAZES ON YOUR 6-0-CLOCKI 
CORNHUSKER CLUB MEETING WED­NESDAY OCT. 5 AT 4:30 IN LAFORTUNE. STOP 
Juicy Quinn. Marsha Brady. Natasha Kinski. T. Lyle. Violenza. Gumby and Pokey. Pam the lamb and her cousin Sam. and all other Raggs of the RAT Family, P6rtla''Prebys wishes y(j!j\'if PLEASANT day. P.S. Saini Brown Face is still watching. 
I LOVE NORTH QUAD shirts: $6 On sale in North Dining Hall Tues. Wed. Thurs dio­ner. 
SOUTH QUAD: WHY? Show your pride with an I LOVE NORTH QUAD T-shirt On sale in North Dining Hall Tues. Wed. Thurs at dinner: $6 
Happy "21" Brutus We luv ya 
Resume Workshop. Call 239-5200 and sign up. October 5, 3:30 to 5:00 p.m. Room 222, Career and Placement Services. Administration Building. Con­ducted by Joan Mcintosh. Career Coun­selor. 
Tarnie says: I could really use a man. but alii have are Domersl 
Party down this Friday night. 801 St. Louis St. H's Jim's 8-Day. so give him a kiss. 
To 
To ALL Notre Dame men: My sister TRISHA ROMANO needs at least one date before graduation! This year is going by last so call her today at Home:x8125 Office:239·5136 Thanks. her little brother Michael. Hope this works TRISHAI 
Zeus. 
So you thought you could pull a last one on usl Well. we weren't tooled tor a minute I Now we·re on our guard: just try to purge us. Remember the Condor! 
Covenant & Chosen 
Happy Birthday. Megan. you Georgia Peechl Have a good one! Your favorite roommate 
Hey. NO. s 21 & 22, your tavor~e liquors think alot ot you Ill Black Velvet & Brandy 

"JOE":MAYBE. but I'll be wa~ing tor a sign. Hopefully, in person. 
GET OUT OF THE PIZZA RUTII TRY A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINE. NOW DELIVER­ING MON-SAT 9-12pm. CALL 272-4453 
c;;;·FiRor···i:rs··ai:i:N···;;··iifiEA'r···~ 
MONTHS: LETS GO FOR 90 MOREl 
LOVE. BUTCH 
.................... 
THE SOUND OF MUSIC HAGGAR COL­
LEGE CENTER 
Wed. Oct. 5 
2pm. 7pm. & 10pm 
S 1 Admission 
-~ rilteAGARTEN 
BIERGARTEN 
BIERGARTEN 
Thurs. Oct. 6 
SMC9pm-1 am 
21 ID Required OKTOBERFEST IS HERE 
AT 205 CAMPUS VIEW You can pick your friends and you can p1ck you nose and we can even pick our friends noses... SWITCH 
CLEO 
the dog/BEAST was last seen hangong from the John Han­cock Building in Chicago on Friday night. SEND ALL INFORMATION TO THE SMC BARN POLICE AT 4431. finished 
CHESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS CHEESESTEAKS MMMMMMMMMMMMI HOWARD HALL PRESENTS WEDNESDAY NIGHT 
CHEESESTEAKSIII FREE DELIVERY FREE DELIVERY CALL 8200 between 9:0Q-11 :30 to order .... 
LOOK OUT.ND-SMCI THE BREWS BROS.-JOE.MIKE.&JEFF·ARE BACK AND OUT TO PROVE THAT WEEKENDS ARE NOT SAFE. BEWARE OR GET VICTIMIZED! 
Tricia Noonan and Lynn McCarthy! II. My friends say no don't go tor that cotton candy Son you're playing with tire the kod will live and learn As he watches hos bridges bum from the point ot no return Tonight when I chase the dragon the water will change to cherry wine and lh solver will turn to gold No we can't dance together No we can'llalk at all Soon you'll throw down your disguise We'll see be­hind those brighleyesl Thanks so much!I What a surprise! Why? Why not? Be­cause Shamrock Roots only happen once in a litetimellll Lee Ann. Vicki. and Steely Dan 
3B STUD MR. MIKE needs SYR date in­quire at 1 068 
ATTENTIONIIIIWSND REMOTES ARE NOW AVAILABLE FOR ALL OCCA­SIONS! FOR THE LOWEST PRICE AVAIALABLE YOU CAN HAVE A PROFESSIONAL OJ, ENGINEER AND ALL THE MUSIC YOU CAN HANDLEII THE FOLLOWING DATES ARE NOW AVAILABLE: OCTOBER 8,14,15,21-­NOVEMBER 4,12,17,18 AND DECEM­BER l,3,9,16,17. TO RESERVE YOUR DATE CALL REGINALD DANIEL AT 2113-1153 AFTER 11 P.M. OR AT 239­7425 TUESDAY FROM 3PM TO IIPM, AND JIM GALLAGHER AT 239-7425. THAT'S WSND REMOTE8-THE BEST EQUIPMENT ,THE BEST MUSIC, AT THE BEST PRICEIll 
NEED 3 USC TIX CALL KATY AT SMC 4334 
NEED 2 USC TIX CALL MARY AT SMC 4433 

The ObservEr Wednesday, October 5, 1983-page 9 
• • . Sullivan 
continuedjrompage 12 
what its major meaning is, it still sounds like the players are telling the students to drop dead. If the team is not going to play for Notre Dame (the student body is r.·otre Dame), then it's going to be very hard to go ·out and cheer on the team. Why not say, "We're just going to play our own way?" 
The other comment came last year over fall break. The head coach was quoted as saying that the stu­dents were a bad influence on the team. Now, what he was quoted as saying and what he actually said are probably not the same thing (the press tends to diston newswo nhy quotes), but all the students know is 
that someone connected with the team was being undiplomatic and said some negative things about their relationship with the team. 
Ofcourse, losing much more than usual does not help the matter. But, maybe the bad relationship between the team and the students has played a part in the losing. The team has to want to win for itself, but it also has to want to win for the school. Not for the people who demand that they win, but for Notre Dame itself. 
Some making up has to be done before it's too late. The football team has to realize that the students, despite what they say, do care about how the team does. The students have to realize how imponant the team is to the name of Notre Dame. Both pans of Notre Dame football have to work together. 
The team needs the students and the students need the team. Football isn't everything, and shouldn't be. However, nobody can deny that, so­cially, football is extremely impor­tant. 
So, how about a little diplomacy on both sides? If the close bond be­tween the students and the team is allowed to disintegrate, which I honestly do not think will happen, everyone can stop thinking hopeful­ly about bowl games and national championships. They just won't mean that much anymore. 
Dis,tribution Schedule 
Monday, October 10 All Seniors 
Tuesday, October 11 Juniors and all undergraduate students in the ninth semester or higher \lVednesday, October 12 Sophomores, graduate students, and law students 
Thursday, October 13 
Freshman and any student who missed his/her appropriate day 
All tiickets are being distributed at Gate 3 of the ACC from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Bas]~etball tickets will be distributed 
ByJANE HEALEY 
AssistantSports Editor 
The Ticket Office has mailed the 1983-84 m':n's basketball student applications. If you have not res­ceived your application as of today, you should go to the Ticket Office on the second floor of the ACC by Friday, October 7 and pick an appia­tion up. 
The applications and remittance made pay_ablle to the University of Notre Dame should be presented on a specified day in return for the season tickets. The distribution schedule is as follows: seniors on Monday, October 10, juniors on Tuesday, O<:tober 11, sophomores on Wednesday October 12, and freshman on Thursday, October 13. All tickets will be distributed at Gate 3 of the ACC from 8:00 am. to 5:00 p.m. 
There is only a limited number of 
continuedfrom pa'ge 12 
Phillies drew their infield in but the four-time Cy Young Award winner made that unnecessary, forcing Baker to pop up in front ofthe plate. Three Phillks surrounded the ball but it was Carlton who caught it. 
That brought up the Dodgers' cleanup hitt<:r, Pedro Guerrero, who led the team with 1 0 3 runs batted in. Carlton worked carefully and, with the count 3-2, he walked Guerrero, barely missing a called third strike. 
Young Mike Marshall was next 
and he was !limply overmatched. He 
fouled off the first two pitches and 
then swung and missed at strike 
three, leaving the runners stranded. 
In the eighth, Carlton got into 
trouble ag~tin. With one out, Sax 
Observer 
CLA~SSIFIEDS 
tickets available to students. Therefore, strict adherence to the distribution schedule will be en­forced. If you did not pick up your ticket following the schedule, you should go to Gate 3 on Friday and purchase tickets ifthere are any still available. 
A students picking up tickets for friends may only present four ID's. 
This year's package includes tick­ets for 15 of the 18 scheduled home games. Three games (St. Joseph's, Marist, and Valparaiso) fall during student holidays. The games are not split into two packages as previously done. There is only one package. 
Married students should report to Gate 3 with their respective classes. You should also bring evidence of your marital status (marriage license for example). 
StMary's students will obtain tick­ets through the St. Mary's Student Union. 
•• . Phillies 
punched his third hit. After Russell popped up, Baker dropped a single to right, sending Sax to third. 
Now, it was Guerrero's turn again and, again, Carlton walked the Dodgers slugger. That brought up Marshall and Phillies Manager Paul 
Owens went to the ace of his bul­lpen, Holland. 
The left-bander, who saved Carlton's 300th career victory, got Marshall into a 1-2 hole and then retired him on a line drive to right. 
Holland put out a threat in the ninth, after Derrel Thomas got on through Schmidt's two-out error and stole second, by getting Greg Brock to ground out. Reuss' only mistake came on a 1-1 pitch to Schmidt in the first inning. The slug­ger, who led the majors in home runs for the sixth time in his career with 40 this season, sent a shot over the 395-foot sign in left-center field. It was one ofjust five hits the Phillies got off Reuss in eighth innings 
before Tom Niedenfuer 
ninth. 
The victory was only the second all season for Philadelphia against the Dodgers. LA won 11 of the 12 regular season contests, beating Carlton twice. 
Game 2 in the best-of-five series will be played Wednesday night with 19-game winner John Denny going, for the Phillies against Fer­nando Valenzuela, 15-10. 



..---------------------------------------~----­
The Observer Wednesday, October 5, 1983-page 10 
Lineups set for AL game today 
ByJOHN NELSON 
Associated Press 
Dan Ford, Baltimore's hobbling 
ri~ht fielder, was the only question 
mark yesterday as the managers an· 
nounced their lineups for the first 
~arne of the 19H3 American League 
Championship Series between the 
Orioles and the Chicago White Sox. 
Orioles ManagerJoe Altobelli said 
Ford, if healthy, would start today's 
first game of the best-of-five series, 
despite being a right-handed hitter 
facin~ Chicago's LaMarr Hoyt, also a 
right-hander. 
"Ford was our re~ular outfielder 
durin~ the last part of the season," 
said Altobelli, who platoons at the 
other outfield positions. "We'll talk 
to him tomorrow (Wednesday) 
morning. Ifhe's capable, he'll start." 
Ford ha~ been hampered by a sore right foot, injured when he str!"lned on a base in a game late in the season. If he cannot start, then Jim Dwyer, a left-handed hitter, will play. 
Altobelli said that AI Bumbry would start in center field and bat 
Stipanovich signs with the Pacers and joins team in West Lafayette 
By Steve Hennan 
AssociatedPress 
Steve Stipanovich, the second player chosen in this year's National Basketball Association college draft, signed a multi-year contract yester· day with the Indiana Pacers. 
The 7-foot rookie from the Uni· 
versity of Missouri was to report to 
the Pacers' training camp last night 
at Purdue.Univrrsity's Mackey Arena 
in West Lafayette. 
"I'm delightrd to be here, finally;" Stipanovich told reporters at an af. ternoon news conference in In· dianapolis, referring to the lengthy contract negotiations that caused him to miss the first. four days of practice. "This morning I signed a multi-year contract, and I'm very, very t happy with it." 
The terms of the pact were not disclosed. 
George Irvine, Pacer vice presi· dent of basketball operations, said • Stipanovich is expected to join the front line with 6-1 I Herb Williams, who will bt· switched from center to forward for his third season in the NRA, and 6-7 Clark Kellogg, the team's Ieadin~ scorer la~t year as a rookie. 
"That's the kind of front line that will be with us for a long time," , Irvine said. "That's the reason we drafted him (Stipanovich), and that's 
the rea~on we're paying him a lot of dollars. The: coaches are more than · anxious to get him in practice ses-. sions." 
Stipanovich, who averaged 18.4 points and nearly nine rebounds a game for Missouri last year, said the delay in reporting to training camp "obviously" will hurt his develop· ment "to a certain extent." 
"I don't know how much. When you play by yourself or in a pickup game, it's just not the same. I think 
I'll  be  a  little  behind,  but  I'll  be  
ready."  
The  Pacers'  first  of  eight  

scheduled exhibition games will be on Saturday against the Detroit Pis· tons at Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center. 
"I realize the NBA will be a lot dif· ferent from what I'm used to," Stipanovich said. "But I'll be learning every day and taking one day at a time. It's an opportunity I'm looking forward to. Being the second playrr in the draft puts a lot of pressure on first, followed by Ford or Dwyer; Cal Ripken,Jr., shortstop; Eddie Murray, first base;John Lowenstein, left field; Ken Singleton, designated hitter; Rich Dauer, second base; Todd Cruz, third base, and Rick Dempsey, catcher. Left-bander Scott McGregor, 18·7 with a 3.18 earned run average, will be the Orioles' opening-game pitcher. 
White Sox Manager Tony LaRussa announced a starting lineup of: Rudy Law, center field; Carlton Fisk, catcher; Tom Paciorek, first base; Greg Lozinski, DH; Ron Kittle, left field; Harold Baines, right field; Vance Law, third base; Scott Fletcher, shortstop, and Julio Cruz, second base. Hoyt, the major leagues' winningest pitcher at 24-10 with a 3.66 ERA, was LaRussa's pick to start Game One. 
The Orioles won the season series 7-5 after t winning five of the two teams' first six meetings. Three of each of the club's victories was by one run. McGregor had a 1-0 record against the White Sox; Hoyt was 2-1 against Baltimore. 
me, but hopefully I can handle the Sampson, the No.I draft pick by the pressure. Houston Rockets. And he said going 
"I don't have a lot to lose," he con· head-to-head against established tinued. "Your rookie year, not much NBA stars such as Kareem Abdul· is expected from you anyway. So I'm Jabbar and Moses Malone will be just going to go out and enjoy challenging. myself" "You watch these guys on TV, and 
Stipanovich said the highlight of they're great players. I don't know his college career probably was a na· how I'll do, but I'm looking forward tionally televised confrontation last to it. It's a challenge, and l think it'll spring against Virginia's 7·4 Ralph be a lot offun." 
ISIS GALLERYART OPENING 
Figurative Gouaches By 
FATHER ANDRE BOULER October8-21 

Opening Reception Saturday, Oct. 8, 7 -9PM isis GaUery Art Department 3rd floor Art Building 
Advanced programming power in a pocket size. 
Take on everyday problems in science, math or engineering with the shirt-pocket-size HP-llC. 
• Dedicated scientific functions for quick answers to computations 
-
• Easy-to-learn programming with up to 203 program lines 
• Handy program editing tools 
.... 
• Continuous Memory saves your programs and data 

HP-llC Slim-line Programmable Scientific .......... $89.95 
Get a 10% discount when you present your student J.D. Other HP calculators a1vailable. 
Georgetown Center 52303 Emmons Road 277-497/. 
I 
.·.·....~ ....... 
LaRussa said that because of the 
teams' familiarity with each other, 
the outcome would rest with 
"execution." 
"There aren't going to be a lot of tricks. They have a lot of plays on bunts and with men on base, but you're not going to see anybody picked off in this series," he added. 
The'Orioles won their seventh AL east title this year since divisional ;Jlay was instituted in 1969, while the White Sox haven't won anything since claiming the AL pennant in 1959. Thus, the importance of ex· 
perience is a key issue in this series. 
LaRussa, who celebrated his 39th birthday yesterday said he wouldn't downplay the importance of ex· perience, but added, "I can't go into this with any negative thoughts. 
"Experience is a benefit. I never underestimate it, except to say that we have some guys with experience. As a team, they have more ex· perience, but that didn't bother us in the pennant race." 

APPhmo 
Baltimore pitcher Tippy Martinez exemplifies the confident at­titude the Orioles bring to their play-offgame today against the Chicago White Sox. The story at left details the advantage ofex­perience that the Orioles have over the sox. 
Spend a "NEAT" evening with DOUG NIEDT "neet" CLASSICAL GUITARIST WEDNESDAY,OCTOBER26 8:00PM Bendix Theatre CENTURY CENTER A unique performance by one of the greatest guitarists in the world today! All tickets $7.00 On Sale Now! ticket info., call 284-9711 

r--~~~~~~·-.--~~~ii~~·~-----------w 
1753 E. 12th st. Mfshawaka, IN
1 
'I 
11 PARTY SUBS 
3 Meats, 2 Cheeses &Choice of Toppings • 
3 4 5 6  feet feet feet feet  serves serves serves serves  20·25 ... $30.00 25-30 ... $37 .50 30-35 ... $45.00 35-40 ... $50.00  
t  

ALSO:MEATTRAY~,CHEESETRAYS
I I I &SALADS 
I! ~ ~ 255-7797 Ir 
I 
;I Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance J 11 Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 ~ ~ Jeff Etoll, owner, N D '78 I
I
-·--•-·••,..•~•--·---clip & save ___________JI 
~c:tcJlC3L~---------------------------------W--ed_n_eoo__~_,_o_ct_o_oc_r_s_,_19_8_3~-p-a_g_e__ll 
Bloom County 
val-NOW, 'rt5. I'lL 13€ MRS. SH'T\JP... AM€RICA'5 FIR~T I UNfif.R51ANI7 l-16A17!£55 'tWRf. IN NA5A'5 ~BYTERJAN 
MI~ORIIY HO!f.iEWlf£ lN5~.
PR00AAM. "' 

Fate 

Mellish 
PROJECTILE MOfiON II A TRICIIY !HING,AIW 
A BIT DWEVING To THt UNTRAiNO 
OBSE~VtR. I=OR fXAMPtf_. IF I AIN fi-41S 
PISTOL 4! THE SlE~PJN!> STUDENT IN !Hi. 
llAtK ROW, MOlT Of yru WOUlD EXPECI 1 T 
TO PIERU.. HI\ fJf.Af\1. 
1::--t ~r--­

-------.
s 
I 0 . 
~­

YOO Rf./JJ..lte., OF 
COORf£, 71-/ATYOIJR 
FACe WIU... 1% ClV IN A 

NO'N I rE'fL L1I({ AIJ
WHoA!/ HEY, HOT-SHOT, 
IDIOT. fltlfT J'IIIN4'f frU1' 
I HEAt YOU MltD£ THE 
CIII£NMt. 


flolooiHfR, 51N<f THE P41H OF THE BULLET Will BE PARABOLIC ,BY LA\J 1 THE_ PROJlc.TJLE. WilL fAlL LONC:. 
BEFORE )1 J.IIT~ THE STUDfNT. OB~HvE:.. 
Berke Breatht~d 
501HI515A VICT'OPY OF 50Rf5 
Fffi H€AP!.£55 

Photius 

Dave & Dave 

ACROSS 1 Becomes 
hairless 
6 Lasso 10 Soliloquy start 
-=--r:-:---r:-::-r.-:::--, 14 Self­evident truth 
15 Pinnacle -+--+-t--1 16 Object of worship 
'::':""'+---ir----t--t--1 17 Surrealis­tic album by 36A(for short) 
20 Refined 21 Employment -::-:--1---11---l 22 Fisheaters 23 A lot 
The DaiJly Crossword 
-+--+----1 
© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
25 Fabulist 28-accompli 29 Nab 32 Weapon: Fr. 33 Monroe or 
Harlow 35 Yoko­36 John,­
(Beatles) 39 Possessive 40 Marbles 41 Tuesday 42 Understand 43 Eye part 44 Wargod 45 Tykes 46 Sound of 
pain 49 Brief appearance 
10/5/83 
Campus 
•9 
a.m.-3:30p.m. -BookSale, Library Concourse 

•12:15 
p.m. -Workshop, "Persistent Welfare Status and the New Culture of Poverty," Prof. Richard Coe, Library Lounge 

•
3:30p.m. -Resume Workshop,Joan Mcintosh, of the Career and Placement Center, 222 Ad· ministration Building 

•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Intro. to Micros, 11 5 Computing Center 

•4:
1 5 p.m. -Lecture, "Geologists and Inter­preters of Genesis in the Nineteenth Century," Prot: james R. Moore, Library Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Seminar, "Metal Alkoxides -Models for Metal Oxides," Prot: Mal­colm Chisholm, 123 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -MicrobiologySeminar, "Antibiotic Associated Colitis," Dr. Margaret Youngbluth, Gal­vin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•7 
p.m.-Math Club Organizational Meeting, 300CCMB 

•7 
p.m. -Italian Club Meeting, LaFortune Little Theatre 

•7, 
9:15 and II :30 p.m. -Film, "Fame," Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, SI 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Hercules as an Allegory of Christ in the Inferno," Dr. Clarence Miller, Hayes Healy Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Women's Place in Evolu­tion: an Historical Perspective," Prof. James R. Moore, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, for ND/SMC Young Democrats, LaFortune 


TV Tonight 
6p_m_  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  The MacNeil/Lehrer Report  
6:30p.m.  16  MASH  
22  Family Feud  
28  Joker's Wild  
34  t 4Straight Talk  
7p-m.  16  Baseball National West  
22  Whiz Kids  
28  The Fall Guy  
34  American Journey  
8p.m.  22  Wednesday Night Movie  
28  Dynasty  
9p.m.  28  Hotel  

Far Side . 

r-----~---------------, 
.Illwy·v.-rc-a lly gol wltal il I a IH·s, t t irsg(,inglolal{''(·vnyllting Tues,Oct.4ond t t llwy'v(· gol. Wed., Oct 5 t 
t t 
t t 
f Sp?~n~c:;~~d __by Student Union t t t
t Engineering Auditonum t t 7. 9: 15. 11 :3o---=-s 1 t 
52 "Choose thine-" 
56"-Hand" (hit by 36A) 
60 Hardy 
heroine 61 Rara­62 March 
composer 63 Punta del ­64 Party 
spread 65 Evicts 
DOWN 1 Ignoble 2 Skating 
maneuver 3 Cash in Milan 4 Trivial 
verse 5 Libel 6 Declaims 7 Elect 8 Energy 9 Riverin 
England 10 Halff-boiled 11 Greek 
theaters 12 Wimbledon 
great 13 Other 18 Landers 19 Fourth-
down man 23 Skin 
disea!;e 24 Assis1:ants 25 -laz1~1i 26 Ticked off 27 Entertain 28 Worth and 
Knox 29 Foolish 
mistake 30 Slant 31 Commodities 33 Sire 34 Bank trans­
actior1s 37 Clod 38 Plea by 36A 45 High-strung 46 Antlered 
beas11 47 Nocturnal flyer 48 -on 
(et ce,tera) 49 Mention 50 Inspires 
with lrever­
ence 51 Spar 53 Promises 
to pay 54 Nece1ssity 55 Notable 
peric1ds 57 Spout 58 Egg!i 59 Single or 
double 
~---·-·····--·····················~---···
• • r• r.r• • • • -.rr• • • • • .,• r• • • • r• • r• • • • • v• • • 
Wednesday Night 
BEER SPECIAL 
We are starting a nightly drawing for cash. The pot starts at $20 and goes up $5 every night until some­one wins it all! 

Schmidt's first-inning homerun is enough for the Phillies to win 
Though the gap between students and players isn't apparent in this picture taken before last year's Purdue game, Sports Editor Mike Sullivan 
Observer Photo/Pc=tc Laches 
thinks that the separation is not only existent, it bas grown. For a more detailed account of the issue, see hiss column below. 
By HAL BOCK 
AssociatedPress 
Mike Schmidt hammered a first­inning home run and Steve Carlton made the single run stand up, with late-inning help from AI Holland, pitching the Philadelphia Phillies to a 1-0 victory over the los Angeles Dodgers in last night's openinggame of the National league Champion­ship Series. 
Carlton, baseball's all-time strikeout king, hurled a masterful game into the eighth inning, outduelingJerry Reuss in a battle of southpaws before a DodgerStadium crowd of49,963. 
Schmidt provided him with an 
early run, smashinga two-out homer 
in the first inning against Reuss, who 
has been the Phillie slugger's 
favorite target over the years. It was 
the 1Oth time Schmidt has con­
nected against the Dodger left­
bander in his career and no pitcher 
has surrendered more homers to 
him. 
It was to be the only run the Nl east champions would get this night but it was enough for Carlton, the crafty 38-year-old left-bander who won the 300th game of his career Sept. 23. 
He worked through a jam in the sixth inning and then got help from Holland when the Dodgers loaded the base t s in the eighth. 
Steve Sax opened the sixth with his second of three singles in the game. Carlton had picked him off base the first time he reached and Sax was more careful this time, advancing to second on a sacrifice by Bill Russell. 
Then Carlton made one ofhis few mistakes all night, uncorking a wild pitch on his first delivery to Dusty Baker. Sax advanced to third and came halfway home before rulling up. 
Now Carlton was in trouble. The 
see PHILLIES, page 9 
Wednesday, October 5, 1983-page 12 
Irish seek consistency against Gamecocks 

Irish Items 

Hello again, everybody! 
Charlie Brown once said "Win -have you ever noticed what a beautiful word that is?", but it could just as easily have been Gerry Faust. Faust, the players, and the fans had to be pleased with the consistent performance turned in by the Irish in Colorado, after two dismal showings in previous weeks. Now the key for the Irish is to find that consistency on a weekly basis. 
A good time to start would be Saturday night when the Irish meet the high-flying Gamecocks of South Carolina. The Gamecocks proved they are capable of a major upset last weekend when they shellacked Southern Cal 38-14. They would love to make it two in a row by beating the Irish in Columbia. 
The Last Time ...The Irish and South Carolina have not met 
since 1979, but fans ofboth teams should have memories ofthat one. 
The Gamecocks came to South Bend looking to pull off the upset, 
and things appeared to be leaning that way as the Irish trailed I 7-I 0 
with 1:36 left on the clock. Rusty tisch took matters into his own 
hands at that point, driving the Irish 80 yards in 54 seconds, 
culminating the march with a 14-yard touchdown toss to Dean 
Masztak. Still trailing by a point, Notre Dame went for the two-point 
conversion. Usch connected with sure-handed Pete Holohan to give 
the Irish another come-from-behind victory. 
Frosh Fit in Fine .. .It's not unusual for one or two freshmen to 
make an impact on a team, but when four come through in the same 
game, it has to raise some eyebrows. While most fans are already 
familiar with last Saturday's contributions from Steve Beuerlein and 
Hiawatha Frandsco, there were some fine frosh performances on 
the other side ofthe line. Defensive tackle Mike Griffin, filling in for the ailingJon Autry at the nose tackle spot, tied for the team lead in tackles with seven, while Steve lawrence (without Eydie Gorme) filled in admirably for the injured JoeJohnson at strong safety. 
Gamecock Droppings ...South Carolina went out and hired for­mer New York Giant greatJoe Morrison following last year's dismal 4-7 record, and the former New Mexico mentor seems to have evaluated this club's talent well. The Gamecocks run the option (an old Irish nemesis) out of the veer offense, and they have a pair of backs who can run it well in sophomores Thomas Dendy and Kent Hagood. Dendy is well on his way to shattering all ofGeorge Rogers' rushing records at South Carolina, and his breakaway speed must be contained. Hagood is a bruisingfullback who can get the Gamecocks two or three yards when they need them. Another sophomore, quar­terback Allen Mitchell, has raised himselffrom the fourth spot on the depth chart to a starting role, and he also likes to run with the foot­ball. The holes have been there for the Carolina running backs, thanks largely to a massive line led by 6-6, 295-pound right tackle Rusty Russell. The one problem the Gamecocks have is an im­
How about a little diplomacy? 
There's trouble brewing in that little football hot spot known as Notre Dame. 
It seems that the unity of team and school has 
deteriorated a lot during the last few weeks as the stu­
dents talk (just talk) about losing imerest and con­
fidence in the team, and the team talks about "playing 
for just ourselves." 
This is not a good situation, to say the least. Even 
though the gap between the students and team is still 
very small, there shouldn't he a gap at all. Once a gap 
appears, there is the possibility that the gap will get big­
ger. Notre Dame Football as we know it will cease to 
exist if the gap continues to widen. 
What gap is there and why is it there? 
let's look back and see what Notre Dame Football has 
meant in the past. After all, everyone always seems to 
want to look to the past when complaining about the 
present teams. 
The Notre Dame students and the team were one unit that had two parts. The team did what it could on the field, while the students did what they could off the field. No matter what the team's fortunes, this set up continued uninterrupted. The players and the students knew their jobs and went about doing them. That is why tt·ams hated to visit South Bend. They had to play thousands of united students. 
This should not be new to anyone. However, visiting Notre Dame is no longer as tough as it once was. The reason: neither side is doing the job it is supposed to do. Student body and team arc no longer one unit. Each side is now taking irresponsible swipes at the other. 
The student body is facing a big test and, right now, it is failing. It's starting to separate itself from the football team when the team needs its help more than ever. When the team is playing well, the students like to say "we" arc playing well, but when the team is doing poor­ly, "the football team" stinks. It seems that everyone forgets that it is the Notre Dame football team. Sometimes the team makes it hard, but that's the price you pay in an alliance. 

Mike Sullivan 
Sports Editor 
I'm not saying that the student body does not have 
the right to be upset with the team, but any criticism has 
to be responsible -constructive criticism. What good 
do "Oust Faust" banners and slogans do? They just make 
a bad situation worse. It's hard, but the students' and the 
players' job is to channell their emotions toward the 
opponent and not toward Notre Dame. 
However, the students do not deserve all the blame 
for the breaking ofthe alliance. The team -the players 
and coaches-deserve an equal amount ofthe blame. 
They don't deserve the blame because they are losing 
games, though. They deserve blame for trying to 
alienate themselves from the students, because, when 
the students get the impression that the players do not 
want to hold up their end of the alliance, they will not 
hold up the other end. That's what is beginning to hap­
pen now. 
The things that are giving the impression that the 
team is disassociating itself from the student body are 
some of the comments from players and coaches over 
the last two years. 
The phrase that is causing the biggest commotion, "We decided to play for just ourselves," is probably the most popular team quote now. It is a quote that has been misunderstood by the students. The players are right in saying that they have to play their own game and not listen to the criticisms of the uninformed. In this sense, the comment seems reasonable. 
But, whether it's misunderstood or not, listen to the comment. Think about how bad it sounds. No matter 
see SULLIVAN, page 9 
poverished passing game. The Irish should be able to key on the run, 
but when three people carry the ball frequently, it can pose a 
problem. 
On defense, South Carolina has shown it is tough against the run. last week they allowed USC only 49 yard'> on 4 I attempts on the ground. Ifyou run to the right side, you will more than likely run into 6-2, 296-pound tackle Ricky Hagood. If you get by Hagood, the Gamecocks have a fine linebacking corps spearheaded by seniors Mike Durrah ( 83 stops) andj.D. Fuller(56 tackles). The weak spot of the Gamecock defense is the secondary, where inexperience reigns. 
Carolina's special teams are sound, as All-American Mark Fleet­wood handles the place-kicking duties, and senior Chris Norman takes care of the punting chores. Fleetwood missed only once in I 8 tries last year, and has kicked a 58-yard field goal. Norman owns a career average of over 40 yards a punt, and he can really skyrocket the ball. 
Irish Eyes Can Smile Again ...last Saturday, the Irish running attack found some holes in the Colorado line that Orson Welles could have run through. The line did a superb job, annhilating the smaller Colorado team. However, South Carolina is a team with com­parable size to the Irish, and they have shown a tendency to stop the running game. Nevertheless, look for offensive coordinator Ron Hudson to stick with the running attack. One should also look for freshman quarterback Steve Beuerlein to put the ball in the air more this week, now that he has a game under his belt. There is no need to scold the defense for a lack ofa pass rush this week. The t Irish defense only recorded three sacks, but more importantly, they con­stantly chased the Colorado quarterback out of the pocket. The key this week will be to maintain the rushing defense which has only given up 98.7 yards a game. If the Irish can stop the option 
(something that Notre Dame teams have not done .with great success in the past), it should be a pleasant evening for the Irish in Dixie. 
Pick ofthe Week ...This week's pick features a sport I admitted­ly don't know much about-field hockey. CoachJan Galen Bishop's team has compiled a nifty 6-3-I record this season, and will return home Saturday morning for a 9:30a.m. contest with the Billikens of St. Louis at Alumni Field. 
While I don't know much about the rules, Ido know the Irish have some fine talent in high-scoring Clare Henry, talented midfielders Janet Hlavin andJoan (Jetsi) Totten, and sophomore goalkeeper Pat­ti Gallagher. This team is the Rodney Dangerfield of Notre Dame sports (they just get no respect from the students), but the gals work hard and deserve your. 
Notre Dame 
Observer 
07251318 
111111111111 IIIII IIIII IIIII IIIII 1111 IIIII 
021170 
Box: 18 
Volume: 18 
Issue: 30 
Day: Thu 
Date : 10/6/1983 12:00:00 AM 
Notes: 
Issue # Missing (may not exist) : 
Issue # Missing (probably not published) : 

L,ebanon -page 6 


VOL XVIII, NO. 30 the imkpcntknt ~tudcnt nt·w~papt-r ~tT\ in~ notn dame and ~aint nun·~ THURSDAY,OCTOBER 6, 1983 
Minors arrested at Nickle's appear befor4e St. Joe judge 
ByTOM SHAUGHNESSY 
Hunter. counsel fi>r the Notre "He kels that the students of
News Staff 
Dame students, said a defendant on a 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's do not "minor t·ntering a tavern" charge:: is realize the seriousness of going out
Ten Saint Mary's students and five 
usually allowe::d to e::nte::r a plea of 
to the bars ... he sn·med to be sick
Notre Dame students went before 
"guilty," and the:: se::nte::ncing is with­and tired of pe::ople appearing in
St. Joseph County Judge Hosinski 
held for six months. If the:: dde::ndant front of him so oftt:n for this kind of
Tuesday morning on a charge of 
stays ourt of furthe::r trouble during thing," said one Saint Mary's student.
"minors entering a tavern." The. l c; 
this period, the:: prose::cutor move::s
students were arrested in a raid of · Judge Hosinski refused to com­
for dismissal of the:: charge::s. 
ment on the matte::r.
Nickie's bar at_ 928 N. Eddy Sept. I 0. 
According to Hunte::r, "the:: judgeThe Notre Dame students, Referring to the Nickie's incident,
did not seem interested in any com­represented by Rich Hunter, en­Dean of Students Jame::s Roemer
promise with the prosecuter."
tered pleas of"not guilty." They will stated that "when studl·nts are
Hosins.ki "would not tolerate les­
return to court on Nov. 3. caught in violation of t:riminal
ser treatment for students," he said. 
statutes, they must go through the
The 10 Saint Mary's students ap­The judge sugge::sted that steps be peared without counsel and pleaded taken to inform Notre Dame and t:riminal justice system -getting bond, getting an attorney, et cetera.
guilty. Each was fined S25 plus Saint Matry's students as to what The llniversity does not attempt to
courts costs and sentenced to one procedures will be taken if they are day in jail. Though each jail sentence arrested on such charges, said Hun­
intervene on behalfofthe students." was suspended, the charge will ter. According to Roemer, "the Uni­remain on each student's record as a "He basically lectured us," said versity considers this (legal Class B misdemeanor. one of those involved. Several stu­process) sufficient sanction for the 
Judge Rosinski also gave the stu­dents said that judge Rosinski asked student and will not exercisl" con­dents a stiffwarning, saying if any of them what the legal drinking age current iurisdiction," Roemer said. them appeared before him again, was in thdr home state, and if it was 
Nt'ither Saint Mary's nor Notre "they would spend some time in under 21, were they using that as an 
Dame has takt:n any administrativl·jail," according to one defendant. excuse to drink in South Bend? 
action against the studl·nts. 
Walesa awarde~d Nobel Peace Prize 
Associated Press port ofthc~ labor movemt:nt. bloc, was tounded in August 1980, Polish authoritit:s did not say after a wave ofstrikt::-. and unrest, hut 
OSLO, Norway -Lt:ch Walesa, whether they would permit Walesa was suspended at the imposition of leader of Poland's outlawed to leave Poland to accept tht: award, martial law Dec. I 3, 198 I, and later Solidarity labor movement, was and the labor leader said he was outlawed. awarded the Nobel Peace Prize yes­considering sending a rdative in his Asolidarity underground n·mains
The Obsel"ftr/Thomas Brown 
terday for his fight on behalf of the place. Soviet dissident Andrei Sak­and, despitt: frequent government
Record-breaking sale 
"unconquered longing" ofall people harov, the only other Pt:act: Prizt: efforts to minimize Walesa's impor­for peace and freedom. laureatt: from the East bloc, did not tance and discrt:dit him, ht: n·mains juniorjulie Berg perw·es the record and tape selection at yesterday's Walesa quickly said he would give acct:pt his award because he ft:art:d 
a hero of tht: Polbh people and a sale in Saint Mary's Shaheen Bookstore. Berg decided on Dionne War· the approximately S190,000 award he would not be allowed to return rallying point for the moveme::nt. wick's Greatest Hits, but 110t before browsing the classical selections. to Poland's Roman Catholic Church, home. His wife, Yelena Bonnt:r, at­The Nobel committe<:: said it which has been outspoken in its sup-tended on his behalf. 
"rt:gards Waksa as an t:xponent of In Warsaw, deputy government 
tht: active longing for peact: and freedom which t:xist, in spite ofune­spokesman Andrzt:j Konopacki qual conditions, unconquered in all the pt:opks ofthe world. 
GOP se.nators: Watt 'tnust go' 
charged tl~at the award was political­
ly motivated and said tht: Pt:ace Associated Press of any kind ... If there was any bigotry or malice in the Prize "used to be a mt:aningful "In an age when detente and tht: man, prejudice ofany kind, he wouldn't be a part oftht: award. Now it is devalued." pt:a<:eful resolution of conflicts are ever
WASHINGTON -Senate Republicans served blunt administration." Walesa, who was internt:d by the more nt:cessary than befort:, notice on yesterday that Interior Secretary James Watt As for the Republican caucus, Sen. Bob Dole ofKansa~ Lech Walesa's contribution is both
Communist government for I I must go or face a strong vote of no confidence. But said "Some very strong feelings wert: expresed. There's months during martial law, was an inspiration and an example," it President Reagan said Watt "has done a fine job," and a a very, very strong feeling that Secretary Watt should said.
harassed afterward while trying to "stupid remark" didn't merit his removal. leave." return to job as shipyard Tht: committt:e said Walesa's
his a Senate GOP leaders ~.aid a stormy, closed-door And even Watt's must outspoken defender oflate, As­electrician, and has rect:ntly been work was "charact~rized by a dett:r­caucus on Tuesday had dt·monstrated that support for sistant Leadt:r Stevens mination solvt: country's
Republican Ted of Alaska, the object ofa news media campaign to his Watt had waned far beyond prt:vious estimates, and a conceded the interior secretary was in deep trouble. to discredit him. problems through nt:gotiation and 
consensus emerged that the secretary should resign for "There is an increasing number of members of the coopt:ration without resorting to 
The No1rwegian Nobel Committt:e
the good ofthe party. Minority Democrats, in their own majority who are of the opinion that a change will ul­violt:nce." 
said Wale:sa had madt: his contribu­
caucus days earlier, unanimously endorsed a call for timately have to be made," Stevens said. His contribution "is ofvital impor­
tion "with considerable pt:rsonal
Watt's removal. Republicans had a wide ranging discussion ofWatt at tanct: in the wider campaign to 
sacrifice to ensure the workt:rs' right
Reagan, whose aides had pronounced the case closed the caucus, and almost all agret:d, according to par­st:curt: tht: univt:rsal frt:t:dom to •>r­
to establish their own organization."
over Watt la~t week, told lhe Associated Press board of ticipants, that Watt should resign. ganize -a human right as defint:d Tht: Solidarity union, the only in­
directors that tht: secretar;r "has done a fine job." by the llnitt:d.Nations," the commit­
"It bt:came clear that tht: Watt thing had hurt 
dept:ndent labor union in tht: Soviet 
Tht: prt:sident said Watt made "a stupid remark" tt:t: said. 
Republicans and had hurt the Reagan administration wht:n he referred to an advisory panel on coallt:asing as 
and was not just going to go away," said one St:natt: "a black ... a woman, twoJt ws and a cripple" two weeks Republican, who askt:d not to be identified. ago. 
Even Republicans who hadn't takt:n a position on But Reagan told the AP directors that ht: agrt:ed with Watt before the session spoke out against him in scath­House Democratic Leader Jim Wright of Tt:xas on the ing terms, participants said. issue. "He didn't think it was an impeachable offense, As a result, the Whitt: House has been notified by and I don't eitht:r," said Re1gan. Republican leaders that they would be unable to block a 
"I recognize that a mistake was made," the president "sense of the Senate" resolution calling for Watt's dis­said. "He (Watt) recogni:~es that, too. What he was missal, sources said. The resolutation was drafted by trying to say was not based on any malice, any prejudice Democratic Leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia. 
SMC celebrates Founders' Day 
By EDWARD NOLAN "The Walk through Time," a grap­Uniform Review. Teams offour from News Staff hic illustration on the history of the each hall will compete for a pizza College, also will be presented in the pany in the Scavenger Hunt. Alumnae from the Saint Mary's Haggar College Center Parlor Mon­Students will dress in faslhions 1905-1935 classes will be on day. 
reflecting student garb from the late campus Tuesday to celebrate the There will be a candlelight dinner 1800's to the present in the Uniform College's l39th Founders' Day, for the alumnae on Tuesday in 
Review. according to Mary Sue Dunn, coor­LeMans. A 15-minute slide presenta­The programmingcommittee also dinator for Founders' Day fc:stivities, tion on the history of the College 
discussed plans for another Five Hall who spokt: at tht: programming will bt: presented at 7 p.m. After the Dance. The success ofthe first danct: 
committee mt:eting last night. slideshow, Sister Maria McDermott which was held last month initiated Students and faculty members will lead a discussion on the Col­The Observer/Thomas Brown
tht: discussion, according to Dunn. 
will begin celt:brations Monday -lt:gt:'s history. Chairful workers
Tht: dance is tentativdy each hall will sponsor a birthday Otht:r activities for the day in­scheduled for the wt:t:kend follow­Notre Dame employees unload newplushfurniture outside LaFortune 

cakt: party. clude a Scavenger Hunt, and ing Christmas break. StiutentCenier, yesterday. · ' · · 

The Observer Thursday, October 6, 1983 -page 2 
In Brief 
Thomas Becker' dirt:ctor of development at Saint 
Mary's, has appointed Lisa RusSt:ll O'Shea as assistant director of development. She began her duties October 3. Currently a Ph.D. candidate at the University ofChicago, O'Shea most recently worked as research assistant in the major gifts division in the development oftkc: of the Univc:rsity of Chicago Graduate School of Business. A 
I'J"7'J magna cum laude graduate of Williams College in Wiliamstown. Mass., O'Shea is a native of Middletown, Conn. -The Ohsen•er 
The Review ofPolitics has recieved the Harold J. f>t·ter~on award h>r tht· hest article on American military history puhlbhnl last year. The articll', "Power anti Diplomacy: The 1920s lkappraist·tl." was written hy John Brae man. professor of history at the llniversitv of Nt:hraska at Lincoln. and appeared in the July 19H2 issut· of 1he Rer•ieu· ofPolitics. a scholarly journal published here. The awartl b givt·n by tht· Eastc:rn National Park and Monument As· so<:iation in memory of the: latt· Harold Pett·rson, chidcurator ofthe National Park Sc:rvicc: who also servc:tl on the Eastc:rn National hoard. Award rtTipknts rt"t"c:ivc: S 1.000. -7he Ohsen•er 
About 100 protesters, including six stutlc:nts in a small hoat. demonstratnl near the port ofSasd)(),Japan, yestcrtlay as the ti.S aircraft carrier< .arl Vinson ldt after a four-tlay visit, politT saad. Tht-rt· \\ tTt' no t·asualtk·s or arrests. hnar prott·stt-rs wcrc ar· rt·stt·d in Sa"·ho Saturday when the l) I.OOO·ton carrier arrivctl. At that timt·. 2<> small l>o;Us carrying at lc;r.st I I H protesters trkd to prevent the ship from entering tht· port, whill' 2,(,';0 peoplc staged tlt·monstrations on land. l'rott·~ttTs numht·rt·d over H.OOO Sunday and claimed tht· ship carried nuclt·ar weapons. in violation of.Japan's priaKipk~ banning the posst·ssion, production or introduction of nuclear arms. Tht· II.S. Navy rt'fu.,t·s to t·ommt·nt on its nuclear weapons deployment. -.-tP 
Greenpeace environmental activists 
demons! ratnl \ t·stnday at a t;tctory in l.in/. Austria. which used to produn· dioxin. hut angry worker~ hrokt· up the prott·st as the dt·mon~trator~ tried to block tht· plant's ~-:att·~ with mock drums of the deadly cltt·mical wa~te. The tkmon~trators wt·re protesting tht· impt'nding rt·turn of harrd~ ofdioxin that had heen ~hipped abroad for dispos;tl but wt-re ht'ing ~ent ba<:k to tht· plant ht:cause the dis­po~.tl nmtrat'lor bat·kt·d out. About SO angry workt·rs dearcd the galt' art'a at tht· <.lll'mil' l.inz plant bdi>rt· turning on about 20 dt·mon~t rators. at't'ortling to police. Thcre wt-re no injurics, and thc protl·stor~ tlron· off in vans. police ~aid. About I00 workcrs at the <:tll'mil' l.inz plant sulti:rnl ~kin disordn~ aftn an an:idt:nt here: in I<J'5. Thrl-c ~Tar~ lattT, dioxin t·scapnl into thl· air from a plant in St'\'t·so. northern Italy The inddl·nt was blamed for a seril's of stil· !births, binh ddet'l~ am.l,hundrt·d~ ofcascs of a rare skin discase.­
..w 
A 70-year-old man flying a homemade airplant-hc had workt·tl on fi>r I<; ~Tar~ was killed when thc craft plummeted to the ground. An!'>on William Mun.,on. of Punta (;orda. Florida. was killed Tut·stlav aftt·rnoon nt·ar Charlotte County Airport in the ~ingk-engine. four-pa~M·ngt·r l>vkt· Ddt;~. A witlll'SS t•stimated that tht· plane It'll from I. 'iOO kt'l. Ownn of tht· aircr;~fi,.J. Austin Kimble of l.d1igh Ann. said he ami ,\,lunson !'>tannl tmilding the Ddt;t IS years ago in .\1unsoa!'s shop in l.aurt:l. Md. Tht' fnkral Aviation Ad· minhtration and National Tran~ponation Sati:ty Bo;~rd said tht·y \\otald inve,tigatt·. -.-IP 
:Of Interest 
San Diego Zoo, in an dfort to expand a rare-monkey hrtTtling program. has purd1asnl IS lion·tailnl macaques from the privatt· ~·olftTtion of Prince l{ainil·r of \,lonaco. Thl' zoo had nt·got iatnl a prin· of S I 2. SOO for I H nwnkt·\·s. hut thn·t· died. so tht· prit't' prohahl\ \\ill he lowtTnl. Shddon Campbell. president of the San Dil'go Zoologil·al .sot'it't\ ..'aid Tut·sd;n·. "As t;lr as I know, the llHIIH'\ goes to tht· prince himsdL hut Iguess that is tht· go\'t·rnment. \\t,.llpay what· \H,.re told to."< amphell said. The zoo already had I<; oft ht· t·ndangnnl animals.< >nh· .~00 to hOO lion-tailed macaques. natiH· to southl'rn India. arl' ht'lil'\Tdld't in the wild. -AP 
Weather · 
Mostly sunnytoday with high in mid to uppt'r 60s. Clear tonight anti cool with lows in mid 10~. Partly cloudy tomorrow with high in upper 6th. -AP 
Scholastic: Quality improving? 
It's out. 
Scholastic, the monthly student magazine of Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's hit the streets last Friday. 
Reactions to the magazine's first issue, however, were mixed. While some praised its quality by calling it a "fine example of journalistic talt'nt," others accused Scholastic of ingratiating itself to students and faculty mt'mbers. One student t'Ven compared the issue to a "had high school newspapcr." 
Such conflicting comments may he common for any college publication. hut Jim Ganther, Scholastic's cditor-in-chit:f. doesn't take such reader ft'edback light­ly. "Scholastic has made a quantum leap in the last five ~'Cars," he says. Ganther recalls the late 1970s when the magazine ran only 16 pages pcr issuc, a downturn whkh even prompted a Notre Dame administrator to suggcst Sc'holastic ccasc publishing. But under Chuck Wood, editor-in· chief from 19HO to I<)82, 
S£·holastic enjoyed a rebirth Ganther also believes the -it no longt'r attempted to advisory council will have compcte with The Ohsen>er much impact on this year's
Scholastie
for hard news; instead, editorial direction; Wood decided to print only howevcr, he has changed in-depth news and fcature 
the philosophy established artidcs. hy Wood and Prcuss who
?
As a writn l()r Scholastic Ganther says were "too during Wood's trnure, I wrapped up in thcmes."
• 
realizt:d Wootl's ability to Ganthcr says he: wants to turn student-scholars into makc Scholastic less of a magazine writcrs and "soapbox" and more of a t'ditors -a changc which "politically moderate"
\o;tc.. '"70s \'l 80':s 
rardy takcs place at a magazinc which will not studt'nt-run newspaper or "spoonfeed" students with
'w'h~rr does it" go
magazint'. "too many articles on But Wood, who now from he.~? spirituality and social 
works with the Washington 
D.C. archdion·sc's newspaper Catholic Standard, lcfi a dcep hole for his MtCCessors. 
Bcth Hcaky Prcuss, last ycar's editor-in-chid, was not as ccstatically rccein:d by administrators as was Wood. One administrator rcmarked that Wood's high litcrary standards may have "spoilcd" Scholastic n·aders, and said the magazine under Preuss failcd w reach the literary standards of Wood. Preuss, now working for Notre Dame's University Press, disagrces. 
Scholastic began paying its cditors and doing its own layout for the first time last year, said Preuss. According to Preuss, quality at the magazine n:mained high while students became more involved in thc production of the magazinc. 
Such a changc in the financial policy of the magazinc promptcd University administrators to become "ridiculous" about finances, according to Preuss. Even with the ncw salaries, Scholastic was ahle to save the University ovcr $1,000 through revamped advertising 
f-The_Ohs.eryer_ 
(.ompusiliunl:'dilor .. . .. <.arolt.· l.au,git-r 
(.ompositiun Assh;tanl Maurc.:l'n Murphy 
and Chris Uowlc.:r 
1)'/Jt'.'it'ller.'\ ........ Vk Sc.:iulli anti Tt:d Don: 
.'Vc.•II'S l:'t/itor.......... .. Annt· Monas(yrski 
Copl' Editor... .... . ............... Pat Sain 
v}(ITIS (.'(}p)' l:'t/11(}1',, ........... Mark Ramirc:z 
Fealun.•s l.a)'OUI ... .... Mar\' H~aty 
\.\1( Oar J:'difrw. .............\lar\' Ann Poll~r 
.tel Ot•sign .. ... llohCiol!a 
PhtJ/r,grctfJher... Thoma~ Brown 
(;u('.'i/ AfJfJt'tll'tlllCl'S ............. Potu! ,\1l'(~inn 
(juole oflht' /Jt~J' 
II rmll• /akt•s twu u·urtls /'o IJ/ow yuu away 
The ObHrver (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The ObHrver 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Mary s College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased lor $25 J:)er year ($15 per semester) by wn11ng The ObMrver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The Obl8fVer IS a member of The AaiiOCIIIted Preaa. All reproduction nghts are reserved 
r 
Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Thursday 

and circulation programs, she says. 
But more important than saving money, Preuss was ablt' to bring together faculty, students, and ad­ministrators. Scholastic editors met with four faculty members and onc administrator each semester to help the students assess cditorial policics, she says. 
Preuss hopcd such a advisory committee would help overcome thc two greatest handicaps of any student­run organization: students who will not "admit to their own ignorance," and faculty members "who won't 
devote themsclves to the 
students' activites." 
justice." 
Because he is a finance major, (ianthcr considers himself"a little bit more prag· matic" than former cditors-in-chid, most ofwhom have been enrolled in the College ofArts and Letters. Hc also contends he knows what students want to read: sports. gcneral news. and and no more than "two or thrce ar· 
.tides" on a spccific topic. 
But ifthc editorial policics of Wood and Preuss mean anything, Ganther's new philosophy of makingScholas· tic into a general interest magazine free of t!lematic guidelines may create many difficulties for the magazine. 
Wood and Preuss knew Scholastic's purpose: was to offer a publication through which students and faculty members could comment on complicated issues. And two or three articles just don't seem to be enough. 
Observer note 
The Observer needs news editors and news copy editors. Ifyou're intercsted in either of these paid posi· tions, see Paul McGinn at The Observer office. Applica· tions are due Monday at S p.m. 
~ 
Catering Dept. of St. Mary's College is currently in need of waitersI waitresses for a large ban­quet to be held on October 7. Please call Cindy at 284-5542 or stop into the dining hall office to apply. 
12:30-4 Monday-Friday 
Haggar Ctr -3rd Floor 

. An out of print book you cannot locate? Try ours earch service! nationally circulated initial cost: $.75 no obligation 500Jo success rate eight weeks 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
1027 E. Wayne noon-6, Tues .-Sun 232-8444 
< 

. ··= 
=,:: 
...:: ;:: . 
·: .·.
':,: ·. :; 

Thursday, October 6, 1983-page 3 

Jesse lleltns abandons fight against Martin L. King holiday 
Associated Press would be called up if we got unani­purpose in stalling was to push the mous consent" on the King voting vote back past the week-long recess WASHINGTON -Republican ·schedule, Helms said in an inter­that starts Monday. Jesse Helms of Nor1h Carolina view. "It happens all the time around 
"I'm following exactly the
abandoned yesterday his one-man this place. I don't see anything in­strategy I started out with," Helms
filibuster against a bill hc,noring Mar­sidious about that." 
said. "I wanted to take this beyond
tin Luther King, Jr. with a national The Helms-Baker agreement the Columbus Day recess soholiday, virtually ensuri11g it will be prevented the need for at least two senators can have time to think andpassed by the Senate and signed by cloture votes, the first scheduled 
their constituents can get to them. If
President Reagan later tllis month. yesterday, to limit debate. 
people don't contact their senators,In return for not fighting a Baker and Robert Dole, R-Kan., 
so be it."
scheduled Oct. 19 vote on the King floor manager of the King holiday Helms would not specify the lan­
measure, Helms got his way on a bill bill, have said it will pass by a wide 
guage ofhis amendments but said he
important to his tobacco-producing margin and President Reagan's wanted to "delete shutting down
state. spokesmen have declared he will this country for anybody, including
Immediately after the Senate sign it. my own personal hero, Thomas jef­
agreed to the King voting schedule, The House passed the measure ferson. If they want to set aside (the
Majority Leader Howard Baker -by two months ago by a 338-90 vote. holiday) on Sunday, that is fine." 
prior arrangement with Helms -It sets the third Monday inJanuary brought to the floor a bill that would -starting in 1986 -as a day to Helms said he knew that his op­set price supports for dairy products honor the slain civil rights leader. position to the bill and his com­and tobacco. It was a measure Helms His actual birthday is Jan. 15. ments that King espoused Laid to Rest 
The Observer/Thomas Brown 
wanted considered before next Helms, who said his mail was "action-oriented Marxism" would week's Columbus Day r(cess. Pallbearers carl')' the body ofBrotherAdalbert Rmt•ca ll'ho u•as buried
"overwhelmingly in favor of my keep him from getting any black 
yesterday in Saint joseph's Cemetery, following the funeral mass. Tbe
"Sure, I had the arrangement with position" against the holiday, con­votes if he runs for re-election next the majority leader that rhe farm bill tended in the interview his only year. 70-year-old Ho(v Cross brother died oflung cancerSundar. 
"A World Of Wine IV"
PRICES GOOD THRU 
Presented by KINGS CELLAR & WYEZ
OCTOBER 8, 1983 
for the benefit of The American Hearl Assoc1alion
'""'· 
SO. BEND AVE. TIHURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1983 
5:00-9:00 P.M. Noire Dame Athletic & Convocation Center Wine and Cheese ''5.00 Donation
STORE ONLY 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT All KINGS CEllAR STORES 
BEER LIQUOR 
WINE 
!BUDWEISER EARLY TIMES OR BOURBON 
1.75 LITER 
CANEI
BUDWEISER LIGHT 
~--~ 24 LOOSE 

WINE 
750 Ml. 
JACK DANIELS 
J99t-----­

750 Ml 
RIUNITE 
2
KINGS CELLAR 
UMBRUSCO 49
J99 
750 Ml.
VODKA 1.75 liTER 
ZONIN 499
ASTI SPUMANTE
WINDSOR 
750 Ml.
CANADIAN 
1099 
BLUE NUN 399
1.75 liTER 
LIEBFRAUMILCH 
750 Ml.
CALVERT 
ALMADEN
EXTRA 
1099 
MOUNTAIN WINES 
J99
1.75 liTER 1.5 liTER 
LA YIELLE FERME
AMERICAN 
RED OR WHITE 
J99
499 
750 Ml.
CREAM 750 Ml.
BUDWIEISER KEGS 
CORDONIU 
SOUTHERN 
Blanc de Blanc 499 
750 Ml
COMFORT
2SI99 599 
750 Ml. 
1
y, BARREL APPROX. 200 SERVINGS PER 1h BARREl HIRAM WALKER 

®:@
PLUS DEPOSIT AMARETTO 599 
750 Ml. 
WINE
WHILE SUPPLIES LAST 
2
99 
'~UARTS 
750 Ml. 
OLD Mll.WAUKEEcASE6.79 
I
BUDWEil)ER ....cASE8.79 
' 
SJ1Jdents: we accept student l' c~cks"wJth.N.D. LD.s i 
WE WILL BEAT AL~ ADVERTISED PRICES-YOU MUST BRING IN THEIR AD 
" ,.,......._. -..... ' ~ __.............-·... _____ .._. ... _____,;I 
------------------.-.......... -.... ---.. -. .. p ---••_ ..... ­

The Observer N.Y.'s Cardinal Cooke 'gravely ill' 
Thursday, October 6, 1983 ~ page 4 

Armanao·s Barber & Hair Styje Shop 1437 North Ironwood Drrve Sputh Bend. IN 
HOME OF THE IRISH 
Four Stylists to Serve You Five minutes &om cam us 

Spend a "NEAT" evening 

with DOUG NIEDT "neet" CLASSICAL GUITARIST WEONESDAY, OCTOBER 26 8:00PM­
. . ' 
Bendix Theatre ' :: 
CENTURY CENTER ·'A unique performance by one of~he greatest guitarists 
in the world today! 
All tickets $7.00 On Sale Now! ticket info. call284-9711 
Introductory Lesson 1/2 Price 
4 715 W. Progress Drive Mlcbiana Regional Airport (219) 234-6011 South Bend. IN 46628 
Experience the Joy of Flying Solo in 30 days Open 7 Days for under $499 a Week 
Come and See the Air Show Sat. and Sun. (Oct. 8 & Oct. 9) 
iti~-= =========·=·:::::::1m,~~---. _·
;c:,-==::::z::===-=----· 
II Burn's Creative Costume Shop
'I
li 608 Liberty Drive, Mishawaka II 259-4807 !~~ Fulfill Your Wildest Fantasies 
With Our Costumes 
\ Birthday Cake Dancing Beer Cans I Lepracauns Sequin Gowns I Spiders Sequin Jackets 
l
I 
1 i Fly Bee 
I l'i 
~ I
I! •·I 
II 'l
AND MANY MORE :I Student Discounts Stop in to Reserve~ iI No Deposit with Notre Dame or St. Mary's ID · / 1 HOURS: Mon.-Fri. 9:00am-5:00pm 
Sat. 9:00am -12:00 noon 1 111 Extended Hours for Halloween 
1 
N01R.E ~AlvtE;;: SNNT MAJZ.~f'S 
,IHEA.TR€;: presents 
1I-lE Sl~lN C* OUIZTE~TH 
Octohf'r 7. B, I~. 1·1, IS-1\:!Hl p.m. 0'1 ,wghlin Auditorium 
tickets ---284-4626 ----­

****************************************************** 
: r-~-Men's Hair Styling at its finest 1fte~-~~'Jts' a t .--~· 'The Knights ofthe Castle' """~ ~ 

We want you to fook your best . tie, a this fall with a distinctive custom 272-0312 ~ designers hair cut from the expert ~ stytists at the Knights. 277-1619 : 
-.c Across from Martin's ie (St. Rd 23) 
*
Haircut, Shampoo 
*
• Blow Dry, Condition *
* 
Regular $15.00 
*
• Now $8.50 with coupon *
*
*
•iC Hrs. Tue. Wed, Sat li 30-<):W Applies to male patrons only * iC Thur, Fri 8:30-1-1:30 f * 
: Mon.9-2:Jo We are only minutes :rom campu *
* 
***********'************~COUPON********* * 
BANKING•••NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's new office, located at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to St. Mary's and Notre Dame studentsand faculty. 
In addition, our newest office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours • Monday through Friday Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.· 3:30 p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m.· 4:00p.m. 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed' banking service! 
'0' A 
~source
..:aank 
Member F.D.I.C. 

Associated Press 
Nl'\\' 'r'OKK -Cardinal Tert·nt.T Cookl·. archbishop for I.H million Nl'w York Koman Catholics, ofkred thl· pain of his leukemia "as a heauti­ful ~ift for others" yesten.Iay as his lift: continul·d to slip away, a spokes­man said. 
Father Pl'ter finn. spokesman for thl' Archdiocese of Nl'w York. said <.ookl· rl·mainl·d "~ravdy ill," under ml'dication and nl'ar dl'ath. 
But hl· said Cooke wanted to rl'main conscious as much as pos­
'ihk so that his suffl'ring u>Uid hl' "purposdul."
'I t•n•nn• <.ardinol (.ookl' "That. might sound a lillie hit 
Argentina's president threatens to resign 
' . ' 
1.alcz dl'l Solar jailed aftn hl' returnl·d from a deht-rl·f!~~otiation Ill TN< >S AIRI'S. Argt'lllina ­
ml'l'ting in Washington.. !. l'rl'sidl'nt lk\naldo Hignont· told thl' militan rl'ginll' hl-would quit Pinto Kramt·r ordt·rt·d thl' arrl'st hd<•n· l'il'ction' ( kt..~0 if a fnkral on grounds that <ionzalez dd Solar tudgl' 'lll'lTnls in hltKking hetraynl national intl·rests hy agrl'l'­n·nq~otiation of Argl'ntina's •hugt· ing to a dausl' in a rl'nl'gotiation lorl'ign dl'ht. till' Ill'\\ spapl'r <.Iarin contract that would gin· foreign ';ud 't·stl'rd;n· courts jurbdiction in disputl's. Thl· At thl' govt-rtllllt'nt·, n·qut·,t. an judge abo suspendnl n·nt:gotiation 
staged, hut that's thl' way the man feels." Finn said. "He wams this to he purposeful. He wants his sufft:ring to hl' a beautiful gift for others." 
Catholics hdit-v<: that suffering can hl' dl'dicated to a purpos<:, including the salvation of the souls ofothl'rs. 
Finn said at news hridings yester­day that Cooke's condition remain<:d unchanged, and "th<: un­prt:dinahle coursl' ofhis illness do<:s not permit precise estimatl's" of how long hl· would live. 
"Thl' conclusion can he in a mat­tl'r ofhours or a matter ofdays. It's in thl' hands of God, really," ht: said. 
Finn said Cooke's physician, Dr. Kevin Cahill, had attended him throu~hout the day, administering transfusions and medication. 
Priests living in the grey stone rec­. tory hl'hind St. Patrick's Catht:dral pl'riodicall}· _e.ritered Cooke's room 
. . 
and prayed with the card-inal, Finn said. ' · 
In Rome. P<ipt: John Paul II said Mass for Cooke. Tht: apostolic ddegatt: in Washington, Archbishop Pio L;tghi. told Cooke's staff tha( thl' pontiff "t:xprt:ssl'd his pnsonal and praynful nmcern and lovt:" for tht: l·ardinal. 
appl'als untrt tool.. on·r the tkht cast· from tht· Jlltlgt·. l'nkriu> Pinto Kr;amt·r. "ho \Tstt-rday trn·d the pn·,idt·tll ol thl' <.nil rat Bank trom tail 
·I Ill' rl'port in (./orin. a mass cir­nalation daill·. ctnH· ont· da\ aftl'r llignont· appearl'd on aut ionaI tdt·,·ision during a paral\ling nation\\ idl' strih· to insist that Ar· gnllin;a "maid not ddault on its loan obligations and intends to pronTd "ith I he l'llTI ions. tksignnl to l'IHI 'l'\'l'n 'ears ofmilitan nalt· 
Argnll in;a's politit·al and tTonomit· llllt'l'rtaint\ intt·nsilkd \lomla, "hen Pinto Kramn had <.t·ntral Bani.. Prt·sidt·nt _Julio (ion­
' 
of the tkhts of-~ I statt·corporations. 
As a rt·stalt. fordgn hankers in 
Bueno~ Airc~ said thq had stopped 
loan dishursab to tht· govt:rnml'nt. 
In ordering (ionzall'z dd Solar's 
rl'least· \Tstt-rda\. Pinto Kramer said 
ht· was rl'sponding to "tht· ur~ency 
with whid1 tht· l'l'lkral Appeab 
<.hamht·r took o\'l-r tht· GISt:." 
Pinto Kramn sits in Kio (;alll'gos. 
1.900 milt·s south of tht· t·apital. I!is 
ordt·r was read via tt·ll'photH' to tht· .·h.wdated Press lw his stTrl·tary. It tkst-rihl'll <ionzakz dd Solar as "imlictl'll" hut did not spl-cil\-any chargt·s 

·f···-··· 
TheObsen~ Thursday, October 6, 1983-page 5 

Going to a Dance? 
We have cors•ages: nosegays-combo Rose Boutoniere: $1.40 & up Cany Rose: $1.95 & up Co~ages: $3.95 A: up Baby brea·th aud green indadecl 
New Jersey Club -October Break Bus Sign-ups nturs ., Oct. 6 6:30pm LaFortune Ballroom-Roundtrip $80. John-1583 

-~
/1/J/_­
( ' 
Fridc1y, Oct. 21-8 P.M. 
Morris Civic Auditorium-So. lend Ticlleb '11.50 & '10.50 On Sale--Century c-ter...Office or Notre De me Stvdent Union Tldcet Office FO• CH•'•GI O.DI.~Coll 214-9111 
Toxic dutnps ,violate pertnits 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Congressional investigators reported yesterday. that 7H percent of the hazardous waste dumps they checked this' sum­mer were violating their federal per­mits by not monitoring for possible leaks of toxic chemicals into drink­ing water supplies. 
Two influential congressmen said they were "shocked," and vowed to ask the House to provide for criminal prosecution of dump operators who deliberately ignore health safeguards imposed by federal law. 
The sample survey of state pollu­tion officials in North Carolina and Illinois was conducted by the General Accounting Office, the in­vestigative arm of Congress, which found that 78 percent of the dumps operating under so-called "interim status pernits" were not checking for groundwater pollution, as re­quired. In Illinois, the GAO said, 33 of 38 sites were not meeting re­quirements, and in North Carolina, 
18 of27 sites were not complying. In two other states surveyed, the GAO said, Massachusetts and 
California state officials did not know how many sites were in com­pliance because few had been checked. 
The GAO said underground water pollution "is the most serious poten­tial threat to human health and the environment posed by the disposal of hazardous waste." An estimated I,350 sites nationwide are subject to the groundwater monitoring re­quirement. 
In addition, the GAO said, neither the Environmental Protection Agency, which issues the permits, nor state officials are making sure dump operators are complying with financial requirements intended to ensure that dumps can be safely closed whe·n full and then main­tained, and that adequate insurance against accidents has been obtained. 
The GAO study was released by Rep. james Florio, D-N.j., chairman of the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee with jurisdiction over hazardous wastes, and Rep. Norman F. Lent of New York, the panel's senior Republican. 
Florio said that even the minimal health prec:tutions required by the interim permits were not being carried out. The interim permits are supposed to be temporary. pending more comprehensive permanent licensing, and cover nearly all legal dump sites in the country. 
The GAO said through July l<JH3, 24 of an estimated H,OOO facilities expected to require permits had received their permanent licenses, and the process of li<:ensing the rest could take another I 0 years. 
The interim permits require dump operators to install monitor­ing wells around their sites and take periodic samples to indicate whether wastes have leaked from the site and are seeping toward un­derground water supplies. 
The GAO said state officials at­
tributed the lack of compliance to 
the technical complexity and costs 
ofdoing so. A No;th Carolina official 
was quoted as saying that it costs 
about S4,000 to install a monitoring 
well and about Sl.Z,KOO for the first 
year's sampling. 
Florio and Lent said they wnuh.l 
Introduce an amendment tu the: 
federal wa">te disposal law that could 
impose criminal sam:tions on dump 
owners who deliberately c:vade pt:r­
mit requirements. 
Arizona's flood areas to get aid 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. President Reagan declared five counties disas­ter areas yesterday in flooded sout· heast Arizona, and forecasters warned a hurricane in the Pacific could bring more unwanted rain. 
Floodwaters receded under most­ly sunny skies for a second con­secutive day, allowing officials to begin toting up the damage, tentatively set at more than S300 million with 10 people dead and five missing. 
In what's being called Arizona's worst disaster of the century, American Red Cross surveys indi· cated about 3,000 houses, mobile homes, and apartment units had been destroyed or damaged by the flooding that began over the weekend. The numbers were ex­pected to climb. 
Student Organization for La1tin America presents Central America Film Series 
Americas in Tranlsition 
Thurs., Oct.6 7:oo & 9:30 Centerfor Social Cont:erns Discussion to follow 7:00 show 
The Red Cross put out a call for more voluntt·er nurses Tuesday night as it opened a 16th emergency shelter -the Ic; others housing more than 2,900 people -t<> ac· commodate evacuees from the H(>l­ly Acres subdivision southwest of Phoenix. 
About half of the subdivision's 300 rc~>itknts left their homes Tues­day night because of heavy flow in the combined Gila and Salt Rivers. They returned yesterday after the water receded more than a foot. 
Reagan's declaration will free federal funds for assistance in Green­lee, Pima, Santa Cruz, Graham and Pinal counties. Gov. Bruce Babbitt, who toured flood-stricken areas around Tucson on Wednesday, had asked for federal aid to I 0 counties. 
Bob Blair, a Federal Emergency Management Agency spokesman in Washington, said federal and state officials were still assessing damages and that other counties might be added to the list. 
Fightin' Irish I Inflation 
~Fighters
~ ~RID(jfT ~C(jUIRfS 
-~ 
.25 Beers 
Beat the ClockS 2.50 pitchE•rs 
Mon. & Tues. 7-10 
Frldat & Saturday
while you watch the 
2 for 1 housedrinks-Wed 
HOUSE COCKTAILS
N.D. games on Sat. 
$1 Molson -Thurs. 
8·9.. $.50 9-10.. $.60 
with us. 
10-11..$.70 11-12.. $.80
Happy Hour 4-7 Mon-Fri. 
L..------·--"'-...;.;,:,;;;.:.;;..:;....;..;.,;;.;;.;...;..~.;.;;;,;..,;,_~..&..------·'!"'!·.!""!"."""'!!.!""!".-'­
• ..,'. 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the ''Terrace Lounge'' South Bend's largest 34 oz. tankard of beer is only 
$2.50 
1; (Sorry. No mug sales this year.) 
SOUTH BEND _\\orriott 
HOTEL 
l:.!:l ~-St. JoSE-ph Strwt. South Hend. Indiana 46601 
~Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 
•·cc;Qowe~rg fptt aQQ occagiotlg ~ · 
Come in and Browse . 
327lincolnway 232-3354 
~i~~~~()__l_._ll__t_________________
Th-ur-sd-ay,_O_cto-be-r6_._19-83--pa-ge-6 
Lebanese people anxious for peace 
We shall nez•er understand one another untilu•e reduce the htn)!.lWp,e to set•ell/I'Ords. 1\ab/il Gihran ( IHH3-I'J3 I) 
lxbanon. S~Till~ we'n: always hearing had new~ from the tiny ~tate. I(Htr-tlfths the: size: of (:ounectinll. 
Keith Picher Profundity's demise 
Nestlnl hetw~Tn Syria. lsrad and the: ~lnliterran~·an. l.~·hanon once was praised hy (iihran /()r its heatH}'. Now its beauty is hit­t~-rsw~TI. 
lkneath the: crumbling buildings and war­torn countrysid~-is a p~·opk -a people tired of war. sick of foreigners and desperate for pealT. Nearly t·veryont· has lost a sibling, part·nt, gran•Jparent, or friend to shrapnel. The t·ountry itsdfwill hkl'<J to death soon. 
In the midst ofdespair arc h<:rocs. Not John Wayncs or Davy Crocketts, hut <:veryday pt·opk who live superhuman lives. 
A middk-agnl father kavcs his family to work in Akxandria. Frn·d from Beirut's viokncc, he t•arns a check for his wife and .~even children Hack home, tht· youngt·st d1ild asks hn rnotht·r "Wht·n will pappa be home~" Mom looks at th<: child's tearful cyt·s, tht·n at tht· southl'fn sky, wishing she knew the answer. 
A woman of l.l brings hope through the lkd Cross to a countrysidt: full of hopel<:ss peopk. Dodging bullets and offering herself foolishly as a sacrifice, sh<: heals the healahk, and is numh<:d by th<: incurable. 
A young man is unable.: to cross to his side of th<: city. His job -no, his livelihood, lies h<:yond th<: guns which cripple Beirut. He worries about the bounty plat·t:d on his head, and th<: heads of his broth<:rs. With courage and conviction h<: defies the threat for his family's sake. 
A young woman leaves her country for 
medical school in the States. Isolated for a 
tim<: from the horror of her homeland, she 
plans to r<:turn as soon as possible. Her only 
reminder comes on th<: w<:ekend, when she 
wrns on the TV. The New England Patriots 
and N<:w York Jets appear, not as football 
teams, hut warring factions in her helli~ 
country. 
A mother holds h<:r blood-drained child 
who wailed, though he could not understand. 
His mother cries because she understands. 
Somehow she survives the ordcaJ, and 
manages to calm her children. 
A professor teaches a class, ignoring a huge knife jabbed into the chalkboard, complete with a dt:ath threat. Later, a student threatens to kidnap and murder his loved ones. The stu­dent se<:ks a passing grade, but the teacher dot:s not acquiesct:, refusing to share in the <:vii which infects his homeland. 
Outside Lt:banon arc relatives and friends who worry. Tht:y write letters often, as do the Lebanese. Hut the postal service rarely gets mail into or out of the country, and after a whik both sides stop writing. 

Lebanon suffers a terminal illness, but never dies. It screams with intense pain, but never passes out. It is a wound whose scab is picked repeatedly when nearly healed. 
Many ofits people have a nearly foolish faith that, when all the foreigners leave, the Druse and the Maronites will settle their differences. 
The Turks, the French, the U.S., the P.L.O., the Syrians, and the Israelis have all played with Lebanon, nearly trampling her to death. 
But the Lebanese have not given up. They are a strong-willed people who stare at Death daily, but refuse to give in. 
Fort Wayne tnurders add perspective to life 
Almost two weeks ago, a young family was brutally munkrnl in thl'ir homl·, kss than a milt-from my home in Ft. Wavne. Afather and his den·n )Tar old son wer~· killed with th1: youngster's baseball hat. probably in their 
Mike Wilkins Here, there, and back 
slt-t·p. Tht· child's mother was bt·aten to death with a large radio in a downstairs room. The only survivor was a two year-old girl who was raped hy tht· attacker. 
At tht· time. police had no suspects and no motive. Tht· assailant( s) appart·ntly entered the home through an unlockt·d door during the night. Nothing was stolt-n from the home. 
Record review? 
l'kasl·, not anotht-r uninformed music l'fitil'. \X't· art· talking about Bob Vondt·r­hl'ide's so-called record rl·vi<:w "The Hallet Takes a :\lew Turn" (St:ptcmher l.H). It is not our itlll'tll to l'Otnment on his opinion ofSpan­dau Ballt·t's "Trul'... Anyone has the right to 
like or dislike an album. Our concern is his tgnorann· of tht· wholt-New Music plwnonwnon and his gross generalizations and comparisons which lack validity and lTl'llihilil)'. 
First. ht· misuses the term new wave. New Wan· was a term which "...descended form tht· nouvdk vogue. with all of the attendant OVl'ftones of arty fun and stylized nose­thumbing," as explained in the August 9. 19H~ issue of The Vil/ap,e Voice. The term Vonder­hdde should have used is "Nt·w Music" which includes all tht· different movements indud-
The police have a few suspects, but they seem 
no dos<:r to solving the bizarre crime than 
wht·n they started. 
,\1y anger at th<: disgusting crime is ex­
traordinary. My parents and neighbors are tru­
ly frightened. Pan·nts now stay home with 
their children on the the weekends. Those who want to go out cannot find baby-sitters. So many people have decided to instaJI security systems that companies are unable to meet th<: demand. 
My family is as scared as any other family in th<: neighborhood. My mom sleeps very little at night and is extremely ~areful when she's alone at home. The entire family makes sure that every door and window is locked at night. Tht: practice nevt:r seemed necessary before. My father has t:ven considered buying a gun and taking lessons. a drastic step in everyone's 
eyes, including his own. 
Now that I've seen what the murders have 
done to my neighborhood, I see my family in a 
little different light. Somehow when you're 
away at school, it's easy to let your family slip 
to the back of your mind. Thoughts ofschool 
become more important than thoughts of 
home, and contact can bt: limited to an oc­
casional phone caJI or letter. Even if it is pos­
si.ble to keep in touch, thoughts of one's 
parents often end when the phone is hung up, 
or the letter is put away. I'm as guilty as anyone. From now on, I'll try very hard to think ofthem. 
Now I see my family in a different perspective. Academic problems, which one time seemed severe, now seem a bit less im­
portant. At least I can understand their impor­tance more clearly. I think about my family 
P. O.BoxQ 
ing Ska, New Romance, and Advant Garde 
musk. 
We question Vonderheide's knowledge of 
Spandau Ballet and the other British and 
Australian groups he cites. Are British New 
Musk bands r<:ally "looking for American dol­
lars?" We think not. The majority of British 
Nt·w Music bands like New Order and Heaven 
I7 are not concerned with making it big in the States as evidt·nced by the non-conformist nature of their music and their lack of American publicity stunts. 
Although Vonderheide cites many bands, his misconceptions oftheir music is clear. The epitome of these misconceptions is his categorization of Haircut One Hundred's sound as "funk". Any New Music listener knows that Haircut's English Ska is situated at tht· opposite end of the music spectrum from 
urban conemporary funk. 
Furthermore. we find Vonderheide's gross 
gt:neralizations about certain groups and their music frustrating. For example, every song which New Order has recorded does not have a "breakneck pace" that is danceable; has Von­
dt:rheide heard "Your Silent Face" and "We Stand Alone," two songs on New Order's latest album? Similarly, every song on Madness' al­bum carries a different beat and tempo. 
From the first sentence of his article Von­derheide reveaJs his myopic outlook on music. He seems unwilling to accept any new music, let alone new bands from England. 
Vonderheide is not only closing his ears, he is dosing his mind to everything that British New Music has to offer. It is a shame that his article focused on the rejection of British music, instead ofSpandau Ballet's "True." 
Edward Augustine Diane Yoder 
more often now, not just when I get a letter or a phone call. 
It's a shame that it takes a tragedy to make people see the importance of the people around them. Death puts things into perspective so harshly. Too many times it's too late when we remember how important those close to us really are. Despite crammed schedules and vitally important tests, each of us should take more time to remember our family and friends who are so special to us. 
Don't wait for a tragedy to think about those important to you. Sit down today and write a letter to a friend you haven't taJked to in a long time. Or invest in a phone call tonight to tell your parents how much you love them. Ifyou don't take til& time to put things into perspective, you may not get the chance. 
N.D. calendar 
Dear Editor: 
Upon reading the many recent articles and letters on the "Men ofNotre Dame" calendar, I feel obliged to add my two cents worth. 
No gorgeous hunks in bathing suits, please. Imagine, instead, Father Hesburgh in full habit inviting us to make the legendary trek up the fire escape, or Emil reclining at St. Joseph' 
beach with his physical models ofatoms. Ho about a (male) freshmen engineer sprawled sexily in the haJls of Fitzpatrick waiting for terminal on the engineering computt:r? One of our vernerable security guards naughtily enticing us to come on campus with our cars? Or how about an anonymous Notre Dame quarterback out for a leisurely run with an opposing defensive line joining him? I think 
we'd aJl prefer what we know to be a good gag to something that may or may not be for reaJ. 
Dominique Laflamme 
Department Managers 
~=Ihe_Obseaer== Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ................ David Dziedzic /lux {!..VP/rt· f)a lilt'. I\' /() S S 6 I.!I'J) .!39·5303 Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager . .............. Daniel O'Hare 
lh1• ( )h.H'Tt't'r i~ t ht· tlllkpentknt m·w~papt·r publi~lu·d b\ tlu· ~tmknt~ of the llni­Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas \t·r~tt\· ol Notre l>arnt· dul.ac and _..,aint .\!an'' ( olkge II dot·, nol nt'lT~~ariJ\· rdlt'l'l News Editor ................. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager . .............. Chris Owen till' polu.tt'' ol the admmt~tration of t•ither lll~litution. Tht· nt·w, i" n·portt·d a~ al..­News Editor . ................. Mark Worscheh Composition Manager . ........ Suzauuc i..a Croix curatl'lv and a' ohjt't'tl\TI\" a~ po~~ihk l n~t~nnlt·ditoriab rt:prt·~t·nt tin· opinon ofa Saint Ma;y's~dit#': . .. ; ... _ . -:· An~e Monasly-FSili· · Circulation Manager . .....·........ Mark Miolto m.tfOrtt\" ol tht· hlttonallloard <:omnwntari~·~. leHer~. and tht· ln,.u.k <:olumn pn·scnt Features Editor . ............... Sarah Hamillou System Manager ............... Kevin Williams 1ht· new~ ol thnr Jut hor' <.olumn 'Pa~'l' ., a \"atlabk to allnwmher~ oftht· l·umrnunit\'. Pho10 EdiiOr .................... Scott Bower 
.\jwrt.• Editor.. ... \lichad Sulli,·an _
.md the lrt't' t'X(lrt'"umof' .trnngoplllulll' on carnpu~. through ktter~. i~ enn)llraged Founded November 3, 1966 

The Bindery 
Thursday, October 6, 1983-page 7 
Just one of those days 
friend Crosbee, the stereotypical Yale grad with the high tastes and atrociously overdone Boston ac­cent. And then there are the numerous jabs at Boston, which Fis­her contemptuously regards as "a debased puppet theater on a big chain drive." McEwen's intellect is never offensive however and even the true Bostonian is likely to find more than a bit to laugh at in his analogies. 
D
id you ever have one ofthose den Pond, Fisher slips on a bump in The humor and the events are days? You know, the kind ofday the ice, splitting his head and begin­quick and spontaneous; there is a where one bad thing after mother ning his "Hitchcockian nightmare" surprise at every turn ofthe page. happens, and all you can do is just sit in which he is falsely accused of While visiting Walden Lake early in backand watch helplessly ts a single being crazy, violates deeply held the novel, Fisher notices Henry stroke of misfortune snowballs into principles, starts a fire in a public David Thoreau himselfunder the an uncontrollable series ol'events? library, getscaught nude in his office ice's surface. With dead fish in his This all-too-familiar occurrence is by the company vice president, aging beard, Thoreau flashes Fisher a the basis for the plot ofFisher's argues with one girlfriend and gets sign saying, "Go get Emerson." Fis­Hornpipe, Todd McEwen's hilarious seduced by another and, leads a riot her, ofcourse, acts as ifthis happens first novel. ofderelicts in downtown Boston. all the time. The entire scene William Fisher, a young, crass Though Fisher's responses and transpires so naturally, one is never 
Advice in poor taste
determination are dulled by the
employee ofBoston's Institute of really sure whether Fisher is hal­accident, nothing about him really lucinating or daydreaming.
Science is the unlikely recipient of changes. People's perceptions of One ofthe most immediate things
the series of misfortunes. While him, however, do change. His
enjoying the wildlife and the early that is noticed in this novel is winter morning on the famed Wal-bloodied bandage and unshaven McEwen's almost complete lack of by Scott Williams 
face, coupled with his already er­conventional paragraphing and ratic nature get him into even more punctuation. Quotation marks and trouble with people who think he's a How to Survive Your College Daze
commas are used very infrequently. ---~---------------------------------­
crazyderelict. Left to defend himself This lack ofnatural breaks helps 
by G. Brown 
against the accusations, Fisher's ex­communicate just how quickly planations backfire and onlyserve to everything is happening. Boutlder, New View Press, 1983 convince others ofhis mental in­Early in the novel, Fisher $5.95 stability. befriends Frank ofOregon, a street 
134 pages
Fisher regards everything around bum with a touch ofclass. As their him with sarcastic contempt, from friendship grows, Fisher's relation­-'V{ith the barrage of"How-To" literature that has hit the market
his job at the Institute, to the city of ships with the other characters "' during the last decade, one at first glance must wonder whyyet
Boston itselfwhere most ofthe ac­deteriorate; he loses his girlfriend ano;ther ofthese books is necessary. After reading G. Brown's "Howtion in the novel occurs. McEwen Jillian bacause ofhis bad attitude, To SurviveYour College Daze"(New View Press; S5.95 ), it's obviousdraws much ofthe novel's humor publicly embarasses Allison and al­that such a book is both unnecessary and is frequently insulting tofrom the stereotyped characteriza­most gets fired from his job. 
the reader's intelligence. Brown attempts to take the point ofview of
tions ofits characters. There is Al­an experienced older sibling as he communicates the "facts" about
lison Mapes, the attractive young The ironically funny thing is that college in a unique conversational style.
librarian Fisher meets and begins to during Fisher's "downfall," he is The bookis divided into four sections, each providing advice on adate. The two are hopelessly mis­attempting to come to grips with parlticular area ofcollege life.
matched, but he falls in love with her something real and meaningful in his Brown first elaborates on "Getting There." Topics discussed un­preppie, athletic legs which he fan­life. That journey, which eventually der this heading include the application process, fmancial aid, urbantasizes as having "straddled Arabian leads him back to an old friend is tru­versus rural settings, distance from home, SAT scores, and packing.
horses, numerous Harvard men and ly a humorous one, one well worth 
The guidance offered here could be somewhat helpful, but is cer­
daddy's sailboats." Then there is his travelling with him. tailllly nowhere near complete. Atotal oftwenty-nine pages are spent discussingwhat are some ofthe most importantdecisions a college­boullld senior will make. The discussion ofschools is thus rather in­complete at best and it seems that a decent high school counselor
A difft~rent kind offriendship 
would be much more valuable to the potential college freshman than Brown's book. Bmwn's next two sections, "Being There," and "A Giant Slumber Indeed, that is the magic ofthis 
Pany," seemed to be somewhat more pertinent to the average col­
by Nick Laflamme whole hook: it presents men who lege freshman than the first section. Herein is found the information defy the usual image ofthe success­that many guidance counselors cannot provide, including thoughts ful man as a loner supported only by on subjects such as roommates, college food, prank..,, alcohol, sex, 
The Best ofFriends 
a loving wife. Michaelis shows that the fraternity/sorority system, and a plethoraofothers. Brown'scon­by David Michaelis friendship and love can exist and versational style and "older sibling approach" to the material New York, William Morrow & Co., Inc. thrive between two men who are become a bit more appropriate in these sections, although he is of­
successful and prominent in their ten tasteless. A typical excerpt from this section demonstrates his
$14.95 
own niche ofthe world. Men don't styk. 318 pages have to be stoic, unemotional Always have something in you stomach before you robots; they can have feelings and start drinking ... You want to get bombed, but ifyou " prom the start, my thought was made their relationship special. still survive. blow chunks, you want to have something down there to <ell a series ofstories based Michaelis'stours deforce, though, Overall, The Best ofFriends is a instead ofgoing through the dreaded dry heaves. on the recollections of men to are two ofthe longer chapters, one pleasant book. It keeps nudging one 
This reviewer saw two basic problems with this section ofthe
whom a close friendship with anoth­aboutJohn F. Kennedy and his best forward, not as a suspenseful book book. 
er man mattered as much as a friend, LeMoyne Billings, and the that doesn't slow down enough to First, it seems to exaggerate the extent to which most collegeromance with a woman." Thus other about two naval officers who let you stop, but as a story that keeps freshmen become involved in the areas ofdrugs, sex, and alcohol opens the preface to Tbe Best of should have been bitter rivals but in­inviting the reader to explore just a abuse:. All students do not need a lecture on the use ofspeed, heroin,Friends, the new book by David Mic­stead were close friends and suppor­little bit more. 
cocaine, quaaludes, painkillers, and mushrooms just to get throughhaelis. In this book the author does ters ofeach other. The chapter on four years ofcollege. In all, Brown's discussion here reflected a poorindeed stick to his plan of action. Kennedy and Billings tells ofa opinion ofthe average reader, as well as being in extremely poorMichaelis presents seven' couples" famous relationship that has been taste.
who range from captains ofindustry well remembered by both Billings 
The second problem with this section is that most ofthe valuablewho met as college roommates to and the surviving members ofthe advi<:e given could have come from an oldersiblingorfriend For theJohn Bclushi and Dan Ackroyd, from Kennedy clan. It benefits greatly average college freshman, there is surely some source more ap­an inventor and a sculptor to a pair from nearly three decades of propriate than Brown's book from which to find out about the col­of Navy officers who met after serv­anecdotes which Michaelis expertly lege social scene.
ing in Vietnam. It is a widely varying draws from. 
Thte final section covers the topic of"Staying There," includinghook covering seven distinct The chapter on the naval officers, commentary on professors, study habits, finances, and cheating.
relationships. Four of the seven Leonard Picotte and Michael Ed­Again, this section includes some good advice but is basically filled relationships end in the de:1th ofone wards, is well done for a different with information that can be obtained from other sources, such as a ofthe two men, yet that does not put reason. It tells ofa friendship which familly member or friend who is a recent college graduate or current a damper on the story, for in at least exists where none would be ex­
stud~~nt.
two ofthe four cases, deatl:it serves to pected to exist. As Michaelis often In conclusion, G.-Brown's "How To Survive Your College Daze"
bring the men closer. stresses in the chapter, the navy In many ways, Tbe Best ofFriends tooay.does not in any way make it 
proviides some valuable information on college in a very readable must have been a difficult book to easy for ambitious officers to be style. However, the information is at best incomplete and often taste­write since it is often extremely hard friends with eactl'other: ftoweter, less. Even at the bargain price of $5.95, it would be impossible to to explam why two people are Picotte and Edwards have beaten recommend this book to anyone needing serious advice about col­
friends. Nevertheless, Mic ltaelis the odds and become steadfast lege. generally does a good job ofdrawing friends while at the same time rising Scott Williams is a sophomore arts and letters student from out from the surviving friend'> what through the ranks. Arnold, Missouri. 
' 
by :Yic Sciulli 
Fisher's Hornpipe 
by Todd McEwen New York, Harper & Row, 1982 $J 2.95 256 pages 




Thursday, October 6, 1983 -page 8
Sports Briefs 
.The International Student Organiza­tton is forming a soccer team. If you arc an international student and arc interested in playing, sign up at the I.S.O. office, or call 232· 7423. -The Ohsert•er 
The Wind Surfing Club is having a meeting on Saturday, October 8 at 2 p.m. at S t. joe's Beach. All members are asked to bring proofof insurance. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's basketball tryouts wm start 
Sunday, October 9 from 1· 3 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. ­
The Observer 
Speaking ofsoccer,no one: should be: lett out. Ifyou are interested in 'oining a grad/faculty soccer league, call the Non­Varsity Athletics office (239-6100) and leave your name and num­ber. -The Observer 
Entries for the Domer Six-Mile Run are 
now being accepted at the NVA office for the Domer 6-mile run. The 
run is set for October 8 at 10 a.m. T-shirts will be awarded to all finishers and trophies to the first-place finishers in each of six divi­sions. Today is the last day to bring the $2 fee to the NVA office. The Observer 
It'S not tOO late to become a member of the Century Club. Again, just call the NVA office (see above) to get on the newsletter m~ling list, or stop by the office in the ACC at Gate 1. ­
The Observer 
The fourth annual running of The Human Race is set for 10 a.m. on Saturday, October 15. The 10-ldlometer footrace and fun run are sponsored by the Broadway Christian Parish United Methodist Church and the South Bend YMCA. The race is a fund-raising event for both organizations. Registration forms for the race can be obtained at Broadway Christian Parish, the YMCA, the Athlete's Foot in University Park Mall, and the Athletic Annex stores in Scottsdale Mall and the University Commons. -Tbe Observer 
Netters capture tourney 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team made an impressive showing in winning the 14th annual Irish Fallln­vitational Tennis Tournament last weekend here at the Courtney Courts. 
It was the first time since the tournament began in 1970 that Coac.h Tom Fallon's squad has won back-to-back titles. The Irish, 3·0 for the tournament, had to defeat a tough Southern Illinois team in or­der to claim the tournament victory. 
Southern Illinois, 2-1, finished second, while Illinois State and Wisconsin-Oshkosh, J-2 and 0-3 respectively, rounded out the stand­Ings. 
"I think we played very well," Coach Fallon said of his team's per­formance. 
And play very well they did, disposing of Wisconsin-Oshkosh and Illinois State by identical tallies of 9-0 and beating Southern Illinois, 
8-1. 
The Obs~rver LaFortune office accepts classified advertising from 9 o.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third noor of Hauar College Center, is open from 12:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by
Classifieds mail Charge is ten ents per seven characters, per day. 

NOTICES 
2001 
Thurs& Fn 
7.9:30.12 PM K ofC Hall S I. Members Free 
PRO~ TYPE 12 yrs. expenence Spec1ahz•ng 1n d1ssertat1ons, manuscnpts. theses. and student papers Call277-5833 for rates. 
LOST/FOUND 
HELP. Lost valuable class nng. WILL PAY REWARD.NO QUESTIONS ASKED 2876277. HOWIE ENDAD 
LOST Annotated New Oxford Btble. left behtnd in Monday 9/26 at 2:30 p.m tn Room 328 Computer Center /Math Butld· tng Please return to office of Lost/Found (Admtntstralion Butldtng) Thanks Ber· nard Deprez 
LOST LADIES MAROON WALLET CONTAINING $.DRIVER'S LICENSE.PHOTOS. OTHER 10 IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LAURA AT 2989 
LOST roll of Ftlm. t35·24exp 400 ASA. Lost at South dtntng hall ptclures are tr· ··eplacable. please call Libby at ·3435 
LOST NAVY BLUE BASKIN SPORT JACKET AT P E SYRSAT. NITE IF YOU HAVE BY MISTAKE PLEASE CALL BOB AT 1441 
lOST Woman's gold Setko watch. Lost near Grotto. Please call277·3409 
LOST I BLUE BOOKBAG. TAKEN FROM THE SOUTH DINING HALL MON ,OCT. 3 PLEASE RETURN TO BRIAN LEE (X6741) AS SOON AS POS· SIBLE, OR AT LEAST PUT IT BACK IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL 
FOUND: CROSS pan tn LaFortune. See Shtrley at THE OBSERVER ofllce 
FOUND: STOPWATCH AT BURKE MEMORIAL GOLF COURSE. CALL ERIC AT 8192 TO IDENTIFY 
LOST Red notebOOk. INTAO to ELECTRICAL NETWORKS Left in 127 Netu Sci on Fnday, 9/30 after blowtng a networks test. Stnce tl belongs to my roommate. he's not too happy aRher. ~ anyone finds this uselesa book. call Btll xt087 
FOR RENT 
wanted 2 roomates for N.D. apts call 2349116or 1101 
New/semtused 8 track tapes. any style music. Mark 283· 7140 evemngs 
Aesponstble babysitter needed part ttme days for 1nlant and three year old '" my home JUSt north of campus. SRter Wtlh own chtld ok. Call Jenntfer 239-7278 Mon· 
Fn 
We hoped, but the dream dlea hard. There muat be a drummer out there aomewhera In the N.D.-S.M.C. Ianda. We would like to play aome techno­dance. H lnteraatad, call Rob at 233­42110. 
WOULD LIKE AIDE TO VATICAN EXHIBIT SOON: TOM 3331,3332 
CINCINNATI!CINCINNATIICINCINNATII I Desperately need a ride to Ctnctnnatt lhts weekend. Will share usuals. Call DAVE al1165 
AIDE needed to EAST LANSING Fnday.Oct 7 Please call Davtd attt05. 
Dan !rom NJ This •s Ted. your nde home the weekend of the 8th. Call 1779 tf you Sltll want to go 
Atde wanted to/from Detrotl area OCT 719 John 8318 wtll share costs 
Need ride to U of I Champaign Oct. 14-16 DESPERATE! Share costs call Fran 2270 
FOR SALE 
EXOTIC PETS -llllllkea, llurda, turtlaa, t.,.ntulu, amphlblana, blrda, m.. mala. Largaat Mlectlon In U.S. Mlcl­-Repllla, 1520 Mlahawaka Ave., 232·2095. 2 mf. ln>m N.D. 
For Sale:NEW Wilson Staff irons...$350 Call Larry ... 1638 
AVAILABLE: 2 USC tlx. Call (215) 238· 9052 after 5 pm. 
FOR SALE: COMPLETE HOCKEY GEAR-CCM HELMET BAUER JUNIOR SUPREME SKATES, SIZE 8 GLOVES, PANTS. SHOULDER PADS. SOCKS & GARTER BELT. $50.00 FOR ALL CALL 272-7011. 
COUPON BOOKLETS. ONLY 19.95. VALUED OVER St.OOO.OO.AESTAURANTS. PLACES OF ENTERTAINMENT.ETC. PROCEEDS TO CHILDREN WITH CAN· CER/LEUKEMIA CALL NANCY 7842638. 
'72 VW BUG,rbh eng. B/0. Leslie x271 0 HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 
2845084 
USC-NO tix wanted. Paying most. (312) 
246·4650. 
Need Non-studenlltckets to NO vs USC 
Call collect, (312) 565·5959 x2013 or 
x2233. 
NEED 2 TO USC GAME FOR GOOD 
OL' DAD"! Please call DAVE at 8919 
NEED 2 USC GA'S. CALL JACK AT 277­
5408 
Need 6 GA Pill. lix. Must be in grps. of 3 or 
more. 239-5845 Steve. 
AEALL Y.AEALLY NEED 4(0R 6) TICK· 
ETS TO PITT GAME!!CALL BILL 1763 
I NEED 4-6 USC GAs AND I USC STU· 
DENT TICKET: CALL PAT 1238 
NEED 2 STUD. TIX TO NAVY. PLEASE 
CALL DEBBIE 284·4372 
Help! Need USC ltx. student or GA. Call 
Steve a16638 
NEED USC STUDENT OR GA TIX·CALL 
CHRIS AT 234-7279 ANYTIME 
Need NAVY stud.&GA's x1695 
NEED 4 NAVYTIX.CALLCHRIS AT 1201 
NEED 4 NAVY GA's Call Pete 3114 
Have 1 USC GA. Need I Pitt. GA or Stud. 
Wtlltng to trade. Call Tracy 277·7232. 
I NEED tO G.A.'S TO THE U.S.C. GAME WILL PAY ANY AMOUNT FOR THESE TICKETS AND THEY NEED NOT BE TO· GETHEA. PLEASE CALL 1779 And ASK FOR DAN. 
HELP! Parents will disown us it we don't get them PITT TIX. Call Pat at1066 or Jeanne at284·4167. 
Need two G.A.'s for the Pttt. game. Call Kelly 284-4074. 
I need 3 Navy GA's. Call Theresa 284· 5442 
HELP!Need 2 USC or 3 PITT 
GA'S. Please call JIM at8736. 
WANTED: 4-6 GA Tix lo each of the following home games: USC, Pill and Penn Slate. Call Tom Hollerbach collect at: 312/565·5959 Ext. 2081. 
need two Pitt GAs call Bill 8395 
I d. 
NEED 3or 4 GAs for ANY HOME Game. 
COULD MEAN EMPLOYMENT. Call 
STEVE al232·0550. 
NEED 2 GA.'S FOR NAVY. WILL PAY 
$$$CALL TOM 1423 
HELP! Need 2 PITT GA's. Call Sue at · 8050. 
need Pitt or Navy GAs call Ted at2BB 0137 
Need 2 or more PITT GA. TIX: Tom at 3331 or 3332 
Need 2 USC GA'S Call BRIAN 6961 
HAVE 4 AIR FORCE TICKETS. WANT TO SWAP FOR PENN ST. CALL PAUL 1703. 
HELP 
A very RICH friend needs PITT GA'& He is willing to pay serious dollars for the tickets. Please help by calling David ar 277·1326. 
You'll bd glad you did 
HELP! NEED USC TIX FOR RICH AELA TIVES. CALL LON AT 8763 
USC TIX NEEDED !I Student or GA · $$ CALL KEVIN x82114 NOW I 
NEED 2 NAVY G.A.'S CALL MATT at1462 
$$$$ NEED 2 OR 4 TIXS FOR USC GAME. CALL TOOTIEAT239-7136. 
NEED 8 G. A.'S FOR PITT GAME. MUST BE IN PAIRS. CALL KEVIN AT 8636. 
$ I NEED 4 NAVY GA'$ · GREG 6863 
GOOD$$ FOR I USC GA ·GREG 6863 
I~EED TWO NAVY GA'S CALL BRIAN 8656 
!PERSONALS 
I HAVE 4 PITT TICKETS, AND I NEED USC GA'S. WILLING TO TRADE TICK· ETS OR PAY MONEY FOR USC GA'S. CALL JERRY AFTER 6 AT x1783. 
DOMER SIX MILE RUN· OCT. 8.10 a.m. ·sign up at NVA. T·shirts and trophies. 
Great Science Fiction 
2001 
Thurs& Fri 
Sponsored by the K of C 
I LOVE NORTH QUAD shirts: $6 On sale in North Dining Hall Tues. Wed, Thurs din· ner. 
SOUTH QUAD: WHY? Show your pride w~h an I LOVE NORTH QUAD T-shirt On sale tn North Dining Hall Tues. Wed. Thurs al dinner: $6 
Party down this Friday nighl. 801 St. Louis Sl. It's Jim's B·Day, so give him a kiss. 
Hey, s 21 & 22. your favorite Hquors think alot of you Ill Black Velvet & Brandy 
BIERGARTEN BIERGARTEN BIERGARTEN Thurs. Oct. 6 SMC9pm-t am 21 10 Required 
OKTQBERFEST IS HERE ATTENTIONIIIIWSND REMOTES ARE 
NOW AVAILABLE FOR ALL OCCA­
SIONS! FOR THE LOWEST PRICE 
AVAIALABLE YOU CAN HAVE A 
PROFESSIONAL OJ, ENGINEER AND 
ALL THE MUSIC YOU CAN HANDLEfl 
THE FOLLOWING DATES ARE NOW 
AVAILABLE: OCTOBER 8,14,15,21­
NOVEMBER 4, 12, 17,18 AND DECEM· 
SEA 2,3,9, 16, 17. TO RESERVE YOUR 
DATE CALL REGINALD DANIEL AT 283-1153 AFTER 11 P.M. DR AT 239­7425 TUESDAY FROM 3PM TO 6PM, AND JIM GALLAGHER AT 239-7425. THATS WSND REMOTE5-THE BEST EQUIPMENT ,THE BEST MUSIC. AT THE BEST PRICEII! 
NEED 2 USC TIX CALL MARY AT SMC 4433 
To the wild women" of third and fourth floor Holy Cross: Talk ts cheap-tel us be the JUdges! 
I am the transparent eyeball. 
NOW FORMING: The Stephen Lundeen Fan Club. Attendance at meetings notre­quired nor suggested. 
HALLOWEEN APPROACHES. BEWARE THE GREAT PUMPKIN HE JS VERY JEALOUS OF CAPTAIN CRUNCH. 
ALL WOMEN AND FEMALE DOMERS 
WHO'VE BEEN WANTING AN OLDER 
MAN," JOHN BURKE TURNS 22 ON 
FRIDAY AND IS AVAILABLE FOR PEA· 
SONAL B·DAY SURPRISES IN ROOM 
234 ALUMNI HALL DON'T FORGET 
YOUR B·DAY SUIT FROM S. ALLEY 
RIDE NEEDED TO COLUMBUS, OHIO. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL HOWIE AT x1765. 
Gloom, despatr. agony for me. My roomate, Gandhi, IS dating, Pammy. a townie. 
Attn. all Arckies: We told Spud, the Johnny Cash Smirf. we would not reveal his true idenlily. Stay tuned. 
GIMP OF THE MONTH goes lo Laurie Obefembl for courage. determtnation. and true grit above and beyond lhe road to recovery. Congratulations Laurie!! 
Attention all male friends of Jo Jo Chavez: Jusl because she a)calls you: b)eats lunch with you or asks you to lunch: c)smiles at you: d)asks you to an SYR, does not mean that she has blood tests scheduled and the church reserved. Love. Her concerned female friends P.S. Don't flatter yourselves. 
......... 
BETH·· PULL IT UP!! PULL IT UPII FLASH 
WORM·· NICE HEAOBANDI!ZAHM AWAITS!! LOWLY 
KIM-· ...I only had three daiquiris and a peppermint... well, the first two were pret­ty strong...why is everyone looking at me funny?..." 
Jennifer has pink shortie pajamas. And she eats Cap'n Crunch. too. Her roommale wonders about her a lot. Could rt be she's from California? 
I need PITT GA'a. Call David at 277· 1326. 
Good luck Kates on your Skin 
URBAN PLUNGE sign-ups begtn Friday. 
Oct. 7. Learn first-hand what no Notre 
Dame class could 9Ver teach. 
It'a en experience of a lifetime. 
The BREEN-MACHINE is fired-up and ready lo rolll We are a LEAN MEAN FOOTBALL MACHINE!!! 
HENRY SAYS COOL ITTAMIE!II 
EDITORIAL CORRECTION: NOTRE DAME WHERE MEN ARE MEN, WOMEN ARE MEN SHEEP ARE SCARED. AND DUCKS ARE AFRAID OF TAM IE 
MANDATORY SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA CLUB MEETING THIS SUNDAY 10·09·63 at 7:00pm ;n La Fortune li«le Theater 
TO: THE FOOTBALL TEAM, WE'LL AL· 
WAYS LOVE YOU The Onstde Kick 
The cheerleaders 
were turnmg 
triple flips 
The bands were breaktng the sound bamer. The I 02,000 fans roared Football underdog was meeting football powerhouse Underdog lost the toss and had to ktck. Whtstle. Roar Boot. It was an ons1de k1ckl A strategy usually used near the end of a game. 
rarely atlhe begtnntng. 
Fans gulped. 
Piccolo player 
swallowed hts 
piccolo. 
T.V. commentator got hiccups. Underdog got ball. Six plays taler. touchdown! II you're an underdog and don't want to stay that way. try the unexpecled for a quick score. If you're an underdog, watch out for clever dogs. love, Michelle. Janet, Laura. Kalie. Shiela. Beatrice, Knsten. Arta. Kelly. Maureen. 
(3N Regina) 
Juat when I thought I had elf the ena-ra, they chengad the queatlona. Juat when I thought Jhad tlckat• they aokt them. Juat when I thought my dear friend• from LA. couldn't come out, aome nice peraon wilt aell me 4 G.A.'a to the USC g-.PLEASE HELP BY SELUNG ME YOUR TIXS • MIC­HELLE 214-4131. 
POPPY· HAPPY B·DAY LUV. THE MIN· NESOTA TWINS 
MOMO · 15 DAYS UNTIL HOME · HANG ON· LUV, THE BETTER HALF 
Desperately need USC tickets! Student or GA Call284·5502 
Entertatn your guests with Mtddle Eastern Flatr or send a Belly Gram to someone you love. Ph. 291·8215 
-~-~···.~-~-~-~--~·-···=·-~·-=·-~-~-~-~-. 
--. ' . ~. -··;-. 
Fih: Phnto 
Clark Kellogg, u•ho bad a sensational rookie day's Logan BenefitGame betu•een the Pacers and season with the NBA 's Indiana Pacers last year, Detroit Pistons at the Notre Dame ACC. will be among the assembled talent at this Satur-
E :  ~: • ;.,  
')  .  '  . '• . .7-;  ·;-. .. ~.  .  .  -~ '  . --­~-· . ,.. :  ('.  ~ .  

......_..: . ~,:-.. • o't'•':..<t<""'"': 
Ticket Distribution 
Monday All seniors 
Tuesday Juniors and all undergraduate students in the ninth semester or higher 
Wednesday Sophomores. graduate students. and law students 
Thursday 
~­
Freshmen and any student who missed his/her appropriate day 
~: 
: ­
All tickets are being distributed at Gate 3 of the ACC from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 

Crown Royal 750ML 
10.49 
Popov Vodka 175L 
7.86 
E &J Brandy 
7l>OML5.99 
NOUVELLE_ LIQUEUR·
$1099
DELICIOL!SI 
7,50MI. 
A delightful blend ofcognac & yogurt 
'H 1.75L. 
RA~!n: B~:RCARDI $109 9 
..~· RUM ••••• 
Ballentine 24 cans______ ~_ 4.99 Hamms 24 cans___________ 5.49 
MILLER24cans _________ 7.49 Bu(jweiser 7.49 
Lowenbrau M • .....__8.99 
Bud Light QUARTS 8.49 case Budweiser 8.9o 
OLD MILWAUKEE QUARTS 6.90 MILLER QUARTS 8.95­
KEGS 
Old Style 27 99 
Yz BarreL _ _ • 
iiioio"'i~B!atz c.r 
~o::~~-_26.99 
BUdv. BarreL __ 22.00 



·~ '\(. ~· 
";:;:~::,;:~ ~--. f.~.,;>:'cl)•::~ ,.~~~,c·."-.; "· '. ."•. 
,----------------------------------------------­
----~~~~ 
The Observer Thursday, October 6, 1983-page 10 
Logan Center 
.. Social Concerns Film Series 
Benefit Basketball Game
Co-5ponsored by Student Government (Social 
~N:tr~Dame ~ . INDIANA PACERS fll;:;,
Concerns) and the Center for Social Concerns ~ vs. \(jy 
Student Union 
DETROIT PJS TONS 
with Kelly Tripucka &Bill lambeer Logan Center wants to say thanks to ND..SMC students Half price tickets available at S .U. Record Store 
$31ower arena $1.50 bleacherse~ts ·saturday, Oct. 8 AC':, 2pmAll proceeds go to Lo~an Center 
ISIS GALLERY ART OPENING 
Figurative Gouaches By 
FATHER ANDRE BOULER October 8-21 
i 
... Sox 
continued from page 12 
Todd Cruz, who later would turn in 
several fielding gems to keep the 
game close, let this one get by him, 
though, as the speedy Law raced 
home uncontested. 
The White Sox scored without a hit in the sixth. McGregor walked Paciorek leading off. Luzinski then hit a squibber toward first, and Mur· ray let it get under his glove for an error as Paciorek ra<:ed to third. Ron Kittle's doubleplay grounder scored Paciorek. 
Dempsey led offthe bottom ofthe sixth with the third hit off Hoyt but then was erased -almost literally -on a foreceout. IJumbry hit a grounder to second. Dempsey was forced out easily, but rookie shortstop Scott Fletcher's sidewind­ing throw hit Dempsey in the hand as he was protecting his face. 
Perhaps suffering from the rain delay, McGregor's outing took yet another perilous turn inthe seventh, when he left in favor of Sammy Stewart. 
He walked Vance Law to start the inning, then balked him to second. Law was sacrificed to third. When McGregor threw a pitch in the dirt past catcher Dempsey, Law tried to score. !Jut Dempsey scrambled after the ball, threw a strike to McGregor and Law was out. 
McGregor then walkedJulio Cruz, and Rudy Law doubled, chasing McGregor and sending Cruz to third. !Jut Stewart fanned Fisk looking, and McGregor had exited after giving up just one earned run. He had been bested at his own game -finesse and precision. 
L.A. 4, Phlla. 1 
LOS ANGELES-Pedro Guerrero drilled a two-out, two-run triple in the fifth inning, breaking a tie and pushing the Los Angeles Dodgers to a 4-1 victory in last night's second game of the National League Cham­pionship Series. 
The Los Angeles triumph tied the best-of-five pennant playoff at 1-1. Game Three Is scheduled for tomor­row in Philadelphia with Charles Hudson starting for the Phillies against the Dodgers' Bob Welch. 
Guerrero's shot rewarded the pitching of Fernando Valenzuela, who scattered seven hits before Tom Niedcnfuer took over in the ninth. John Denny, a 19-game win· ncr during the regular season, was the loser. 
A(_·tually, it was Valenzuela who got the winning rally started, opening the fifth with a drive that sent Garry Maddox to the center field wall. Maddox, who made a cru· cial error in the fourth game of the 197H playoff !){·tween these teams, caught the ball for an instant but then dropped it as he fell on the warning track. Valenzuela steamed into third base on the error. 
Just when it looked like the rally would fizzle, Dusty IJaker worked Denny for a walk, bringing up Guer­rero. Steve Carlton had pitched around the Dodgers' cleanup hitter in Tuesday night's opener. But Den· ny couldnt escape. On a 2-2 pitch, Guerrero sent a shot into right field that scooted past Sixto Lezcano for a triple, scoring Brock and Baker with earned runs and putting Los Angeles in control. 




Columbus Day Special REFRIGERATORS $35 per School Year FREE DELIVERY cALL Taylor Rental 277.2190 1427 N.lronwood  Goodtimes to Go Goodtime Pizza 836Portage FREE DELIVERY (ND&SMC) 232-1883 Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 4pm-IIpm Frl.-Sat. 4pm-lam MUST PRESENT COUPON TO DELWERY PERSON Goodtimes to Go 16" Pizza your choice 2 toppings 48 oz. Pepsi, Mountain Dew, or Dr. Pepper $9.49 INCLUDESTAX Umit One Pizza per Coupon Offer Ends 9-30-83  



T0 day_______________________
T_hu_r_s_d_ay_,_o_c_t_o_b_e_r_6_,1_9_8_3--pa_g_e_l_l 

Blootn (:ounty 



I :Hij1J6Hf /i:LIGE~ N"• lit') IN 11AWA1l
~HlR!'') ...,, I Hf FLfW !"' ~fH1t">t 
WA.~ (,fTTI~G F.l( H~)ING ~INlAPpt£'> ~Oil
n,., ~·:11l: I~L"Nl r~ Pllf.. JP t<•••' 
711( H'~ Ht TRIJ!l (<;(~TAll tlf't, ~llVI/11{
f t • :1~ l ,.(. Tf' '\';.. 



ACROSS 29 Degree for 1 Brldgebid an attorney 5 George 30 Household or Irwin animal 
9 Imperial 33 Used 14 Pay up 37 Head of 15 lizard: France comb. form 38 Unpolished 16 Drawout 39 Suffix with 17 Operatic aster or 
prince planet 18 S.A. monkey 40 Related to 19 Bogsdown hearing 20 Brass 41 Learning by 
22 Certain repetition global 42-double 
me~~:suremer.t (baseball 24 NY city hit) 26 Cheats 44 Lamb's dam 27 Canvas 45 Scroogian 
sheet, for word short 46 Tire out 
The Dailly Crossword 
10/6/83
1983 Tribune Comp.<;Hiy Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 10/6/83 

I DoN'T KNOW A/JOUr 
OTHEK 11JKES, IJUr N rH£ HUDDL£ If! SI#IJII()N SPIIWN 
CUT IN ON£ INCH Pf£US KrJu£o tN .Jo ·11UL£ r£/11'1 &tlfX AtiD S'TtlfW/Jalrt 
OH ~V GOD' 10 fnROC!TE.C AIL ABoJTTHAT! I" HOPE~~ 

Berke Breathed 

f}ll/)fJJC6 ~m "T111tr ~ HAVE. (M£ 
IIVAIN CVT ONE. Of 
Photius 
DHI VDU MEAN Jf IIUME·BI«6£1f.. 
I 

Dave & I>ave 

EXCfllENT 1'Ll I'M ASJfP AHEAD Of 
NHD To ~OU THERE'6 I BlANK P<I~<HAIE 
Campus 
•3 
p.m.-Computer Minicourse, IBM PC Fun­damentals, ll5 Computing Center 

•3:30 
p.m. -Holocaust Film Series, "Warsaw Ghetto," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SMC Depart· ment ofModern Languages 

•3:45 
p.m. -Tennis, SMC vs. Indiana U. Ft. Wayne, Angela Outdoor Tennis Courts 

•4 
p.m. -Radiation Lab Seminar, "Dye Loaded Polymer Electrodes in Photoelectrochemical Con­version of Solar Energy," Dr. Prashant V. Kamat, Rad. Lab. Conference Theatre 

•6:30 
p.m. -Social Concerns Film, "Reds," Engineering Auditorium, $1 

•7 
and 9:30p.m. and 12 a.m. -Film, "2001: A Space Odessy," K of C Hall, Sponsored by Knights ofColumbus, $1 

•7 
p.m. -Information Meeting, Scholarships and Job Information for students of Japanese Studies, Father George Minamiki, Sponsored by College of Arts and Letters , LaFortune Little Theatre 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Present State ofJewish Christian-Opportunities," Rev. John T. Pawlikowski, and Rabbi Marc Eli Saperstein, Library Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -Zahm Coffeehouse, Bob Corrigan and Paul McLean, Zahm Party Room 


TV Tonight 
6:30p.m. 16 MASH 22 Family Feud 28 joker's Wild 34 Straight Talk 
7p.m. 16 Baseball American West 22 Magnum, PI 28 Trauma Center 34 The Ascent of Man 
8p.m. 22 Simon and Simon 28 9 to 5 34 jazz in America 
9p.m. 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Matters of Life and Death 
10p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
10:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Hart to Hart/McMillan and Wife 28 ABC News Nightline 
Far Side 

47 "Paddle 
your own-" 49 Complaints 53 Fullness 57 Musical 
study 58 Danger 59 Dimension 61 Encourage 
earnestly 
62-ear and out the other 
63 Beige 64 Cherished 65 Like March 
weather 66 Headliner 67 Miscalcu· 
lates 
DOWN 1 American patriot 2 Backerof a play 3 Weather 
word 4 Bondage 5 Fast plane 6 Greet 7 Vehicles 8 Prunelike 9 Prompt 
10 Corrects manuscripts 11 Hindu teacher 12 Made a hole in one 
13 -· majeste 21 Obliterate 23 -·the lily 25 C1raft 28 O!ldtime 
shelters fo·rthe mtedy 
30 Inca land 31 Latin abbr. 32 Pr·efix with 
sc:opeor 
vh;ion 33 Field 34 Black bird 35 Adorable 36 "() Sole -" 37 D11pravity 40 ld•olize 42 Glove: Fr. 43 Egg­45 Pe1arl of 
SO•ng 47 Ac:tor Ea1stwood 48 Pr·oclama· 
tic•n 50 Mcne chaste 51 Pc'l! 52 M1m of 
ViSiiOn 53 BUiy-in 
a ~1oke 54 Cafecard 55 Paid 
athletes 56 Pound the poet 60 Continental abbr. 
Thursday, October 6, 1983-page 12
Sports Improving Saint Mary's team disposes ofhapless Bethel 
By MICHELE MICKEEVER 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team defeated Bethel College in three straight games I '5-13, 15-5, and 15­10 before a disappointingly small crowd in Angela Athletic Facility Tuesday night. 
Strong aggressive play from cap­tain Loret Haney and Ann Boutten enabled the team to quickly dispose of its opponent. Consistent serving by Haney, Miki Maternowski, and Molly Baker contributed to the vic­tory in the second game. 
Bethel rallied in the third game, pushing to a 7-2 lead. The Belles, however, quickly regained their momentum and showed there was no cause for worry, outscoring Bet­hel by ten to clinch the victory. 
While the team was playing closer as a unit, and serving well, Coach Brian Goralski was not pleased with his team's performance. He feels the team is lacking intensity on the 
The Chicago White Sox took a I -0 lead in the American League 
court and needs to show a stronger 
Championship series last night, defeating Baltimon? 2-1. In the 
desire to win. 
National League, Los Angeles beat Philadelphia to tie theirseries. 
However, Goralski also feels that 
Hoyt, Valenzuela win 
Sox hop on Orioles; LA triumphs 
A.'i..<1oclated Press the game-winning RBI with a single, Landrum. But Hoyt then got Eddie BALTIMORE -LaMarr Hoyt won and he scored an unearned run in th Murray to ground into a force out to 
a duel of finesse and precision with sixth wi<hout benefit ofa hit. end the game. 
Scott McGregor, pitching a five­Bearded and barrel-bellied, Hoyt This was Hoyt's fJJ"st postseason 
hitter that carried the Chicago retired the first seven batters he appearance, whell"eas McGregor was 
White Sox to a 2-I victory last night faced. Constantly working ahead of a veteran of the Orioles' 1979 
over the Raltimort: Orioles in Game the hitters, Hoyt used a moving playoffteam. 
One of the American League fastball and decent breaking ball to McGregor yielded six hits, one a 
playoffs. confound one of baseball's most fluke, but three other hits came at a The meeting ofthese two pitchers potent lineups. Nothing got past the most inopportune time -one right was billed as a matchup of a master infield until Cruz's hit, but the hard-after the other in the third inning, ofcontrol, Uoyt, and a crafty, tricky est hit ball off Hoyt was probably the with two out. vt·teran, McGregor. one hit two Orioles later. The White Sox threatened in the The right-hander Hoyt, 24-10 and With two out and Cruz still at first, second when Greg Lozinski hit a tht· winningest pitcher in baseball leadoff hitter AI Bumbry hit a long high pop down the right field line to tht· past two seasons, won this time. flyball to left-center field. White Sox lead off. The ball fell among first He struck out only four batters, but center fielder Rudy Law raced to the baseman Eddie Murray, second he walked not a soul. He had walked wall and gathered it in. And the baseman Rich Dauer and right fiei-

Bethel College, a weak opponent, The Belles have established them­did not challenge the team to play its selves as a come-from-behind squad. best. But as they face more serious con­
The team faces the University of tenders they must open ~trong and Michigan at Dearborn, a more for­gain a lead. midable opponent, at 6 p.m. tomor­Individual work wi.h the players, row at the Angela Athletic Facility. according to Goralsll.i, is helping the 
Coach Goralski is confident in the Belles' cause greatl}. Hopefully, this team's ability and feels that the stiff young and improving squad will be competition will improve the team's able to rise to the occasion tomor­performance. row night. 
Frosh Biafore earns starting tennis spot 
ByJERRY MELIA development. It was she who in­Sports Writer spired Joanne to take up the sport and she taught her a great deal of 
like most freshmen, JoAnne what she knows. Biafore is not yet very well known. JoAnne played high school tennis But people who follow Notre Dame at Wooster High School in Wooster, women's tennis know that not only Ohio. Her record in high school was is Joanne a member of the varsity a more than impressive I 09-1 I , and tennis team, but she also starts at the she won many titles in her career. sixth singles position. To start on a Obviously, JoAnne came to Notre varsity sport at the college level Da.:ne with excellent credentials. takes a great deal of talent, deter­JoAnne chose to attend Notre mination, and hard work. Seeing Dame for many reasons, including JoAnne play, one can tell that she its great academic reputation, its possesses all of these qualities and present tradition, and its proximity more. to her home in Ohio. The main 
Coach Sharon Petro had a great reason, however, that JoAnne surprise in store when the semester selected Notre Dame was "the began. Prior to this time, Petro had friendliness of the people." This never seen JoAnne grip a racquet. greatly impressed her on her visit to Joanne, however, expressed her in-the campus last year. 
Bell returning to line-up 
In case you have not already heard, Irish tailback Greg Bell has made the fastest recovery from a broken ankle in history. Actually, the ankle that Bell supposedly broke in the Miami game a couple of years ago, was re-examined, and, early this wrek, it was announced that the ankle was not actually broken. 
Bell may see some action in the next couple ofweeks, but, unless his services are badly needed, he probably will be rested until the Southern Cal game on October 22. 
terest in tennis to Petro in the form played a major role in her tennis 
of letters. She was invited to try out JoAnne is making the transition 
only 31 batters in 260 2-3 inning.o; Orioles scoring threat had expired. der Ford, who almost missed the for the team, and earned a singles from high school to college tennis 
•during the regular season, and he After a 42-minute rain delay in the start with a bad right foot. Murray's spot. rather well. She feels that the big dif­was on his form. He gave up three middle of the fourth inning, Hoyt throw to shortstop Ripken, covering ferences between the two levels of
To thispoint, Petro is very pleased
singles, to Todd Cruz, Rick Dempsey retook the mound. The clouds second, was in time but in the dirt. play are the competition and the
with JoAnne's play. "She is eager to 
and Cal Ripken Jr., and two doubles broke, the sun came out, and the big When Ripken couldn't handle the necessity of a more complete game.
learn and very teachable," Petro says 
-by Ken Singleton and Dan Ford. right-hander, who extended his per-throw, Lozinski had a double. She means that all the aspects of a
ofher talented freshman. 
Left-bander McGregor, the sonal winning streak to 14 games, McGregor got out ofthat one, but he person's tennis game -serve, vol­Orioles top winner this year with an owned the hill. was not so lucky in the third inning. These qualities help JoAnne fit in ley, ground strokes, etc. -must be 18-7 record, had a slightly more ad­The second game in the best-of-Law started the rally with a clean 
well with the program established strong to win consistently in col­venturous, 6 2-3-inning outing, five series will be played tonight single up the mddle, past 
by Petro. Petro feels JoAnne's poten­lege. She felt she could get away while benefitting from some good again in Baltimore, with Mike McGregor's glove. Carlton Fisk tial is very good and if she has a with a lot of mistakes in high school, defense. He escaped peril in the Flanagan the starter for the Orioles followed with a bloop single to left weakness, it's that she stays at the but at the college level she knows second inning, then stingily gave up and Floyd Bannister for Chicago. that sent Law to second, and baseline too much. She also says that that this will not be the case. a run in the third. The Orioles scored their run 10 Paciorek came to bat. JoAnne should rush the net more 
Joanne doesn't sense any pressure Tom Padorek, the White Sox's 36-the ninth ining when Ford doubled He hit a blazing one-hopper and be more aggressive. 
on the court. Instead, she tries to 
to left center with two out and Rip-toward third. Orioles third baseman
year-old first baseman who hit .400 JoAnne began playing tennis at play the best tennis she can by giving against the Orioles this season, got ken singled home pinch runner Tito see SOX, page 8 the age of thirteen. Her mother it all she has. 
Playoff Bound? 
Colts back on winning track 
Associated Press falo, Miami and the New YorkJets in and No. I draft choice John Elway. the American Conference East. Sud­But Kush, working with the NFL's 
BALTIMORE -It's amazing what denly, visions of BertJones, the Sack youngest team -an average age of three victories in five games and a Pack and the division-winning 24.2 years -has developed a team share of first place can do for some Balimore teams ofthe mid-1970s ap­which is 12 points from an unbeaten people. peared before the Colts' fans. season this yr;JJ" (it lost I 7-10 to 
Take Nesby Glasgow, a long­"We just keep improving each Denver and 28-23 to Buffalo). suffering dcfensivr back for the week," said second-year quarter­Still, the former Arizona State previously suffering Baltimore back Mike Pagel. "We're getting to head coach refuses to take credit for Colts. know each other better, that's all." the rebirth of the Colts, who posted 
"As far as I'm concerned, we could The keys to the Colts' recent a 19-53-1 mark between 1978 and sneak into the playoffs," said Glas­success are simple: the league's top 1982. "This is still a people game; it's gow, a fivr-year National Football kicking game, a strong defense and still the players doing it," he said. League veteran. "I think we're good an opportunistic offense featuring "I've just got to remind them what enough to be there." the NFL's second-best rushing at· they need to do." 
"I'm not saying we'll go to the tack. Now, about those playoffs ... Super Bowl -but we're good And then there's Frank Kush, the "It's an old adage and sounds enough to be respected throughout oft-maligned coach who came here corny, but that's the farthest thing the: league." last year. Kush, much to the chagrin from our players' minds," Kush said. 
Such comments used to provoke of some players, stressed condition­And, realistically assessing the laughter throughout the NFL After ing and fundamentals. Those who Colts' improbable dream, Kush all, the Colts won just twice in 1981 disagreed with his philosophies added: "The thing to emphasize is 
Nit-Photo 
and not at all last seao;on. were offered two options: "My way that we're not out of the woods by 
Rut Sunday's 34-31 victory over or the highway." :my means. We have a long way to go season, sitting atop the AFC East Division in a four-way tie. /Jut the Cincinnati Bengals lifted the Many took the highway, including before we can be thinking or dream­playoffs are the farthest thing from their minds, savs He"ati Com:h Colts into a four-way tie with Buf-All-Pro wide receiver Roger Carr ing ofthe: playoffs." Frank Kush. See story at leftfor more details. . 


