---------------------------~------~---­
Baseball -P.9 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19,1983
VOL XVIII. NO. 17 the: inJc:pc:nJnll ~tudc:nt nc:w~papc:r ~c:n ing notn dame: and -.ailll mary·-. 
Soviets submerge sub -while warning others a-way from crash site 
Associated Press 
WAKKANAI, Jap:.n -A Soviet search vessel lowered a small yellow submarine yesterday into interna­tional waters where the downed South Korean airliner is believed to have crashed and warned aJapanese patrol boat to stay away from the area, the japanese navy said. 
In Edinburgh, Scotland, the editor-in-chief of the Soviet Com­munist Party newspaper Pravda criticized his nation's military for the six-day delay in acknowledging that one ofits fighter jets shot down the airplane. 
However the editor, Victor Afanasyev, interviewed by the British Broadcasting Corp., insisted the attack was justified, and that the Soviet Union would never apologize or compensate the victims."Any apology or compensation would amount to an admission of guilt on our part, and we do not regard our­selves as guilty," he said. 
In the Sea ofJapan, the I5,000-ton 
Georgi Kozumin opened a hatch 
near the bow and lowered the sub 
into the waters, said Rear Adm. 
Masayusho Kato of the Japanese 
Maritime Safety Agency. Three men 
boarded the underwater craft before 
it submerged, he said. 
The Georgi Kozumin signaled by flag to the Japanese vessel Rebun to "move north" away from the Soviet search zone, 25 miles north of the tiny Soviet island of Moneron, off Sakhalin's southwest coast, Kato said. 
He said the submarine was dif­ferent from one used in two pre­vious Soviet dives. 
The zone is dominated t by at least 23 Soviet vessels, including the 8,200-ton guided missile cruiser Petropavlovsk. The Rebun and two other Japanese patrol boats are moving in the area, sometimes com­ing within 500 yards of the Soviet ships, said Kato. 
At least four U.S. ships and four South Korean trawlers also were seen in the area yesterday, he said. 
A day earlier, a Soviet oil driller winched up an unidentifiable object from another Soviet vessel. Kato has said he would not speculate whether the object could have been the jumbo jet's "black box" flight re­corder. 
On the northeastern coast ofHok­kaido and in the Pacific Ocean east of the Japanese island, I 7 other Japanese vessels continued search­ing for debris and bodies being carried by eastward currents. So far the remains of at least five of the crash victims have been recovered. 
Afanasyev, who was in Scotland 
for private talks with foreign affairs 
and military experts, was asked by 
the BBC why it took Soviet leaders 
six days to acknowlFdge it shot 
down the airliner. 
"I think in this respect our 
military people are guilty," he said. 


Three students look out contentedly over the State football game. They were later asked to leave Pangborn Hall tailgater prior to Saturday's Michigan their perch by authorities. 

Ne-w college center christened 
By HELEN LUCAITIS 
StaffReporter 

Saint Mary's students should "learn how to use leisure time to cultivate their minds and hearts and to contribute to the order of life," said John Duggan, col­lege president, at the Haggar College Center dedication ceremony. 
The ceremony was held on the center's patio balcony last Friday afternoon and was well attended by students, 
The Saint Mary's College Women's Choir sings at dedication ceremonies for the Haggar College Center 
family and share our gifts with one another,"said Elaine Hoctor, president of Saint Mary's student government, who opened the ceremony with a greeting. "We are celebrating today, in one spirit, what is truly ours." 
Following the greeting was an opening prayer read by Sister Mary Jane Honan, chairman of the Board of Regents. The liturgy was then read by the Dean ofStu­dent Affairs, Sister Karol Jackowski. 
"We are celebrating the foundation of a building of activities and services for our community," said 
11M: Observer/Thom Bradley 
on Friday. 

Democrats plan use ofWar Pow-ers Act 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Senate Democrats are united as never before in their three years of minority status on one issue -a demand the president give Congress a role under 1973 law in deciding how long the Marines will remain in Lebanon. 
While aware of public uneasiness over the presence of American troops on foreign soil, few in Congress are arguing that the I,200 troops now in Beirut should come home. 
But the White House remains un­certain how much power to surren­der to the House and Senate on the issue of the troops, and the usually contentious Senate Democrats -a minority since Reagan won election in 1980 -have taken the lead in seeking to invoke provisions of the War Powers Act. 
At issue is the Vietnam-era War 
Powers Act, which requires the 
president to notify Congress when 
American troops overseas are in 
combat and to bring them home 
Senate specifically allow them to 
remain. 
Twenty-nine of the Senate's 45 
Detnocrats met last week and un­
animously approved a resolution 
which would declare that hostilities 
in Lebanon have triggered provi­
sions ofthe War Powers Act. 
Democratic leaders say they 
believe they would have nearly 
unanimous support among their 
own for that resolution on the Senate floor, and a substantial num­ber of Republicans are known to believe President Reagan is wrong to fight the issue. 
"If we get it to the floor, we will pass it," Sen. Thomas P. Eagleton, D­Mo., said of the Democratic resolu­tion. Eagleton was an original author of the 1973 law and a key figure in efforts to persuade Reagan to invoke it. 
Sen. Charles H. Percy, R-Ill., chair­man of the Foreign Relations Com­mit!ee, said his panel plans hearing~ "shortly" on the Democratic resolu­tion. 
On Tuesday, that panel votes on a proposed nuclear weapons freeze resolution. The House-passed freeze resolution is one of several arms control proposals to be considered by the committee, and opponents say the recent Soviet downing of a Korean jetliner dims chances the freeze resolution will pass the Senate. 
Both the House and Senate have 
debates scheduled this week on ap­
propriations bills for various depart­
ments, and the House will continue 
debate a bill promoting the con­
struction ofcoal slurry pipelines. 
Before Congress returned from a five-week summer recess, four Marines were killed and several were injured in atacks by Lebanese rebels firing on U.S. positions. The Marines have been in Lebanon for a year now, as part a multi-national peacekeeping force. 
Although Reagan has given 
Marine jet fighters authority to fire 


Monday~ SqJtember 19, 1983-page 2 



In Brief 
Mark Hendricks is hopingpeopte think it's sate 
to go hack into the water. After showing "Jaws" last year, Hendricks 
plans to hring another water-oriented thriller -"the Deep" -to his 
dive-in movie theater. Yes, that's dive-in. "You put a bunch of rafts 
and inner tuhes out in the pool, tack white paper on the wall, turn 
out the lif.thts and switch on a scary movie," he explained. "You 
never heard so much screaming." Hendricks, director ofintramural 
sports at Washington State University, said the showing of "Jaws" 
packed the campus pool for four nights last spring. When the shark 
headed for swimmers on the screen, he said, "people would start 
disappearing into the pool. It was great. Everyone was getting real 
scared." -AP 

Former Vice President Walter Mondale, a can­didate ti>r the Democratic presidential nomination, called on the Reagan administration yesterday to lead the Western alliance in economic punishment of the Soviet Union for the downing of a Kort·an jetliner. "I think adjectives are not enough," the former vice president said on ABC-TV's "This Week with David Brinkley." "There has to be a policy that causes it to sting when they act in a way .sud1 as this." Mondale said that a.~ president he would have sought agrn·ment among Western industrialized nations to raise the cutoff trade crt·dits and reduce their availability to the Soviets in retaliation for tht· killing of 269 people aboard the plane. -AP 
Calling its actions ·•errors, not intentional viola· 
tiom," Xerox Corp. ;tgrtTd to pay civil pt·nalties of SI ~.ooo to settle 
claims it supportnl an Arab trade boycott of Israel. Xerox signed a 
consent ;tgrtTmt·nt with the li.S. Commerce Department calling for 
a 12-month su,pension of its export licenses to 12 Arah nations, said 
Thomas Barhour, a Commerce Ikpartment lawyer. The department 
said Xerox agreed in 1980 to furnish the Arabs' Central Boycott 
Office with the names and nationalities ofcompanies owning Xerox 
~tock.. Xerox. spokesman John Rasor said, "These were errors, not 
tntenuonal VIOlations." -AP 

At least 30 members or a high school hand were injured when wooden risers collapsed during a photo session at a hand contest, police said. About 50 members of the Tipp City High School hand were standing on the risers at Tipp City Park when they collapsed Saturday afternoon during the annual Tipp City hand in· vitational competition, police said. The temporary risers were provided hy a photographer who was taking pictures of the 12 par· ticipating hands, Officer Boh Steggman said. Emergency squads transported the injured students, still in uniform, to hospitals in nearhy Troy and Dayton. All were released after treatment except lor a 16-year-old hoy who was admitted overnight, a nursing super· visor said. Band memhers complained mostly of neck, leg and hack bruises, scrapes or fractures -AP 
Of Interest 
The hunt is on again for the hest essay on the his­tory of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. Philip Gleason, history professor .md chairman of the History of the University Committee, said a prize of J50 will he awarded to the winner at the end of the academic year. There is no limitation on length and entries must be received hy April 23. -The Observer 
The Snite Museum is sponsoring an exhibition called Religious Narrative in Sixteenth Century Rome in celehration oftht• t1ve-hundredth anniversary of Raphael's birth. It features plans and studies for some of the most historically significant projects of religious art in that period. The exhihition includesdrawings by Rap· had and memhers of his workshop, celehrated studies in chalk and ink by Taddeo and Frederico Zuccaro, accomplished master dJ.twings by Paris Nogari, Cesare Nebbia and Agostino Ciampelli, .md outstanding examples of woodcuts and engravings hy Marcan­toni Raimondi and Guilio Bonasone. The collection will be shown through <ktober 23 in the Print Gallery of the Snite. It will be ac­L'<>mpanied hy a conference, The Art of Raphael: New Perspectives. <>II <ktohcr 1.2, 1.~ and 14. -The Ohserr'er 
The World Hunger Coalition of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is holding an organizational meeting at 8 tonight in 104 O'Shaughnessy. All intl·rested students are welcome. -The Ob· 
sert'l>r 

Members of the Hall President's Council should pick up the new ND activitie~ calendars for their dorms today he· tween 9 ;1.m. and S p.m. in the student activities! office on the t1rst floor of l.ai'ortune. -The Ohserl'eT' 

VVeather · 
Mostly cloudy today with a 20 percent chance of thunderstorms. lligh in upper 70s to low 80s. Partly cloudy tonight 
with  a  40 percent chance of thunderstorms.  Low in  mid 60s.  
Continuing  partly cloudy  tomorrow  with  a  chance  of thun­ 
derstorms. High In low to mid 80s.  -AP  

Haggar bids adieu to NDCU 

Saint Mary's began renovating the old Centennal Library in January, 1983, and ever since the campus had been keeping an anxious eye on what is now Haggar College Center. I stress College for reasons to be ex­plained. 
Planning for this project began before Casteel Con­struction Corporation drove their first truck on campus. After all, if a college center was to be built for the convenient use of all on campus, what makes up a college center had to be decided. 
During those days of planning I remember the per­sons involved particularly mentioned that Haggar would be a college center and not a student center be­cause office space would be allotted not only to student organizations but to college offices as well. Office space was reserved for Student Activites, Campus Ministry, a travel agency and a banking institution among others. The center would service not only the students, but faculty, staff and administra­tion, another reason for naming it a college center and not a student center. 
The College approved space for a banking institu· tion in Haggar, a wise deci­sion if the center is to provide adequate service to all who would make use of a hank's services. Of course, the logical choice would have heen to allocate the office space to the Notre Dame Credit Union ( NDCU) since so many campus mem­bers already do their hanking there. Logistics, however, were easily buried under a slip ofpaper called a bid. (A bid is a piece ofpaper with a dollar sign and a t1gure usually followed by several zeros. This amount is commonly the deciding factor in awarding a contract for space in new college centers.) The College's decision, based mainly on the bid, almost left students, faculty and staff without a credit union hranch on campus. 
I share the astonishment ofall students who, arriving early, strode through the basement of LeMans' Hall, ready to open an account or deposit their checks in the credit union only t to find the door locked and the NDCU sign no longer on the door. Not there? Of course, it moved to the Haggar Center. Not there either? It must not have opened yet. I'll come back on Orientation day, when I'm sure the credit union will he open for new students wishing to open accounts. Orientation weekend came and went with no sign of NDCU in Hag­gar. Instead, 1st Source Bank opened a hranch office in the center. 
I can only presume that providing the best service to 
Anne Monastyrski 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Inside Monday 

the College was not considered in the bid. lst Source occupies a convenient niche in Haggar -convenient and centrally located, but for whom? Certainly not for the many students and faculty who have accounts with NDCU. Stipulations in the bid made it impossible for NDCU to even participate in the bid. Odd how the specifications were not questioned while NDCU oc­cupied the office in LeMans. The credit union's charter would not allow for a 24-hour teller in Haggar since it would not be available to the public round-the-clock, 
but the bid specified a need for an automatic teller. The convenience of having the credit union in Haggar would have compensated for not having an automatic teller, I am sure. 
So NDCU lost the bid, or could not compete -take your choice. But what was wrong with allowing NDCU's branch remain in LeMans? What's wrong with a little competition. Sorry, I guess I am just being logical. Competition could mean next to no business for the Ist Source branch, in the new, centrally-located col­lege center. What ifyou hap­pen to do your banking with 
NDCU? What ifyou just ordered 200 checks last spring from the credit union? Until Aug. 26, students with no means of transportation other than the shuttle would have t had to trek to the main office on Douglas Road, or switch banks. I, like most students pleased with the services provided by the credit union, did not want to do business with Ist Source. 
Students let out a collective sif.th ofreliefwhen NDCU opened the "off campus" on campus branch if! the Tower Clock huilding located between Holy Cro:r Hall and the Convent, thanks to Holy Cro~'S Shared Services (the management arm of the sister of the Holy Cross). 
At least Holy Cross Shared Services does husiness logically. Since many of their employees have a ac­counts with NDCU, Holy Cross Shared Services decided to rent space to NDCU for the branch office. Makes sense to me. If only the College would think logically, the Haggar College Center would be a complete college center with the banking institution ofthe campus 



_ The_Qbs.eryer_ 
Composition Editor....... ........................J.P. Composition Assistant...................... Clare Tvpesetters ............................ Michelle, Ni~k NetlJS Editor ............................................Tom Copy Editor........... . . ......... lovable: Amy Sports Copy Editor ............................... Mike Editorial.< Layout................................ Tom Features Lt~vout ... ......... !'tarah NfJ Day Editor. ...... anon. .·1<1 D<•-<il(n ........ ......................... Mary PbfJtograpber. .. .............. Thorn 
Guest Appearances. 

Quote ofthe J)a_v ··1 think I tltn, /Jut my idea is unclear 
and indistinct" "Free The Observer Six!" 

USC Reminder 
General Meeting for all Veteran Members ofthe Undergraduate Schools Committee Today, Monday, September 19 7:00 p.m. in the Library Lounge 
In case ofconflicts call the Admissions Office 239-7505 
The Obeerver (USPS 598 920) 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vaca110n penods The Obeerver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys College Subscnphons may be purchased for $25 per yea( ($ t 5 per semester) ~y wnt1ng The Obeerver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. Jnd1ana 46556 
The Obl4ti'Ver IS a member of The Auocleted Pre... All reproduction nghts are reserved 

planning to attend LAW SCHOOL 
Professor Thomas Marullo will hold a 2-part Personal Statement Writing Workshop in the Memorial Library, Auditorium : (; u. 
MONDAY, SEPT. 19, 7:15p.m. TUESD~Y, SEPT. 20, 7:00p.m. ' E'a~lf session will last approximately two hours. Attendance is mandatory. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Pre-Law Soceity 
The Observer Monday, September 19, 198~-page 3 
Senior namedmelnber ofBoard ofRegents 

Lo"Wer rates likely result ofcatnpus phone revision 
By SCOIT HARDEK 
SentorStaffReporter 
The days of waiting until 11 p.m. to make a long-distance call will soon be over, due to a new phone system which will be installed over Christmas break. 
Touchtone phones linked V~<ith an MCI-type system will be installed in all dorms when students return for the second semester. 
Each student will be given a per­sonal billing number which can be directly punched into any touchtone phone on campus, nearly eliminating the need to repeat num­bers to an operator. Rates should be comparable to other long-line telephone leasing systems, said Thomas Mason, vice president of 
Business Affairs. 
The new system is a result of the split of the Bell companies and In­diana Bell's reluctance to continue the current student billing card sys­tem and service the present rotary phone and switching system. Mason explained that the University solicited bids for the installation of the system and examined eight dif­ferent bids before choosing lnfonet, Inc. for the phone and billing system and American Bell for the switching system. 
Infonet will install the phones and assign billing numbers. American Bell will install the switching system in the basement ofthe library in part 
of the area that the current switch­ing system will vacate. Computer jacks will also be installed in the dorms for terminal links. 
"It is a truly innovative system that is responding to the students' concerns and needs. We are quite pleased." said Mason. 

Security increased for gatnes 
By GRETCHEN PICIRER 
StaffReporter 
Although most Notre Dame stu­~ents don't start their "pre-game warmup" for the home football games until sometime Saturday morning, the Notre Dame security officers begin their preparations the day before. 
"It really starts Friday night," said Rex Rakow, Assistant Security Direc­tor. All work shifts are extended, and "we have just about everybody working," he said. 
Friday's activities include guard­ing the stadium after the media crews have set up their equipment, and barricading the roads for the one-way traffic system. 
"Our first concern is the personal safety of people coming to the game," Rakow said. Physical hazards, such as manholes and pedestrian walkways through traffic patterns are taken care of as part ofthe over­all security goal of "being alert ­seeing what's going on," he said. 
Binoculars and radios are used by officers in the crow's nest above the south scoreboard to survey the parking lots Saturday morning and during the game in order to stop people from breaking into cars, or il­legally soliciting items such as food and N.D. paraphernalia. "We've had 
Chemistrylab accident raises safety concerns 
By K.ATHRINE ESQUffiEL 
News Staff 
An accident in the freshman chemistry lab sent one girl to the in­firmary with acid burns last week. 
The Chemistry 115L classes were makin~ solutions last week when one student dropped a bottle of sul­furic acid on the floor and splattered a young woman standing nearby. She was wearing shorts at the time and received several bums. Lab in­structors rinsed her off and took her to the infirmary, where she was treated and released. 
This accident has drawn attention to the safety of the chemistry laboratories, especially CHEM 115L, the freshman lab. There is always a risk involved when students are using dangerous chemicals, say lab instructors, but even more so with freshmen, who may not have had ex­posure to chemistry labs before. 
The chemistry department has 
rules on safety in the laboratory. Safety glasses are to be worn in the laboratory at all times. Though not exactly at the height offashion, they protect the eyes from splashing chemicals and flying objects. 
Prescription glasses also provide adequate protection; in fact, it is recommended that contact lens wearers wear glasses to lab when 
possible. Ifa chemical is splashed in­to the eye, it can get underneath the contact lens (hard or soft) and can­not be rinsed out until the lens is removed. 
Long pants and closed shoes will usually protect skin, though many acids can eat through fabric. Lab aprons can prevent damage to cloth­
ing and may be purchased at the bookstore or directly from the chemistry department for S4.50. Many students simply wear their comfortably grungy clothes rather than risk their new ones. 
people selling everything from little hats with N.D. on them to the Uni­fiCation Church selling buttons. Any­thing you can put N.D. on, people try and turn a buck on," Rakow said. 
"We also put eight of our people onto the playing field, to patrol the stadium in various places," said Glenn Terry, Security Director. Ter­ry added that officers are also placed on campus, in locations such as the ACC and Senior Bar. 
Although there is generally not a lot ofcriminal activity, "a lot of kids report stolen football tickets... and lost ID's" said Terry. 
Security in the residence halls is partly taken care of by the janitorial staff, who are paid overtime to watch the entrances while most stu­dents and hall staff members are at the game. 
Rakow added that the police forces in the South Bend and St. Joseph areas are also stepped up, "particularly with the new Indiana laws en drunk driving." 



~oMPLET£ 

By ELIZABETH FLOR 
News Staff 
Senior . Katherine Whelahan, recently elected as this year's stu­dent representative for the Saint Mary's College Board of Regents, considers the position an honor. 
She is excited to be a part of an organization that not only discusses ideals, but places them in actual policies. "It will be interesting to see how the college operates and where the rules get their foundation," Whelahan said. Like all board members, Whelahan was chosen by the administrative members of the Saint Mary's Corporation, who reviewed recommendations of stu­dents by the administration and stu­dent government. 
Whelahan, a government major, spent her second semester last year as an in:tern at the American Bar As­sociation in Washington D.C., while participating in a program at American University. She is current­ly a volunteer at a runaway shelter, as she is interested in juvenile and 
family law. 
Whelahan is also a secretary for the government department and vice president of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Pre-Jaw Society. 
Last year, the Board of Regents was the final approval in the parietal changes at Saint Mary's. This academic year, Whelahan says that the board will examine the pos­sibility of expanding the science facilities at Saint Mary's. 
The Board of Regents, part of the Corporation ofSaint Mary's College, "continues the operation of Saint Mary's" according to the bylaws. 
The board consists of 18 to 30 Regents who represent the Saint Mary's Community. 


CWJJ rights leader jessejackson raises the arms ofAmerican sol­diers who havepromised to registerfor the 1984presidential elec­tion.jackson is touring West Germany and Berlin, meeting with servicemen. at U.S. military installations, such as this one at Hanau. 



rief 

Ihe Observer needs layout people. 
• 
No experience necessary. 

• 
Late night job. 


• 
Paid position ifyou're responsible. 



Leave your name and phone number at The Observer office on 3rdfloor LaFortune. 


compute• IPcclalllll 

Shipbound Marines -wait -while listening to cotnbat 

Associated Press 
ABOARD THE USS TARAWA 
Waiting isn't easy for the 2,000 
Marines sent to back up the multina· 
tiona! peace force in Beirut. 
Many say they'd rather be ashore in Lebanon than slowly circling out here in the eastern Mediterranean, where the war-wracked nation is just a thin brown strip on the horizon. 
President Reagan ordered the 31st Marine Amphibious Unit to the scene after two members of the 1,200-man Marine peacekeeping contingent ashore were killed by mortar fire Aug. 28. Although two more have since been killed, the White House says there are no im· mediate plans for the back-up force to land. 
"There was a little bit of shock when we heard we were going to Lebanon," said Lance Cpl. Jeff Brum­ley of Portland, Ore., an anti-tank gunner. "This is what we get paid to 
do. Most of us want to go ashore to help our fellow Marines." 
Maj. Robert Beaudoin of Acton, Mass., the commander of troops, said, "After the two Marines were killed and the order came to go, they were excited like any young Marines would be." 
The Marines were resting up after an exercise off Somalia in the Kenyan port of Mombasa when the order came to head northward. 
Most had set sail in mid-May from 
Hawaii, and had hoped to be home 
by mid-October. 
"There were some disgusted Marines, mostly because we'd been away from our families and had hoped to be back soon. The biggest concern was for the families," Beaudoin said. 
Since arriving last week, the Marines have spent their time aboard this helicopter-landing ship and two smaller vessels, patrolling the Lebanese coast, uncertain if tomorrow would bring an order to go ashore, to return home, or to just sit and wait some more. 
A few senior officers and others have flown by helicopter to the shore contingent's base at Beirut's international airport. 
But the only contact enlisted men 
have had with the violence on shore 
is the faint rumble of artillery they 
can hear while jogging on the flight 
dt:ck at dawn. 

The Marines spend from 5:30a.m. until 10 p.m. involved in physical training, classes, maintenance and normal housekeeping. But their of· fleers are keenly aware the men can· not be kept offshore indefinitely without boredom taking its toll. 
"Quite frankly, we have little with which to occupy ourselves" said Col. James H. R. Curd, commanding officer of the unit. "What we are doing is simply to be here, to serve as a deterrent. This is the sort of thing we are trained to do. The only change is the uncertainty of where we're going next." 
"The men stay relatively busy," said Beaudoin. "But after a few more weeks ... the men will be getting jumpy. It will be a letdown." 
Officers are trying to familiarize the troops with the situation in Lebanon, including background on its political and religious strife. 

Fighting in Lebanon intensifies 
Associated Press 
APPhow 

Secretary ofthe Interiorjames Watt strolls through the proposed 
Bisti Wiltlemess Area in northwestern Ne w Mexico. 
SAVE$$$ 
2.5 cubic Dormitory Refrig. 
$35.00 for School Year Limited Quantities 
BURNS RENT-ALLS INC. 
332 W. Mishawaka Ave. 
Mishawaka, IN 
259-2833 


structured therap) ~roup ever)· Tuesday 
evenin~. be~innin~ 
Sepl. 27 on the :'liotre Dame Campus 
Limited Enrollment 
Re~istration doses Sept .22 
BEIRUT -Lebanese air force jets strafed and rocketed Druse militia and Palestinian positions yesterday on a strategic ridge south of Beirut, and police said heavy artillery shell· ing of a Christian port city north of the capital killed at least 16 civilians. 
Heavy fighting between the Lebanese army and Druse rebels raged into its third week, and Syria ordered its forces in Lebanon to retaliate if U.S. warships shelled them. 
In Israel and the occupied West Bank oftheJordan River, police tear­gassed protesters demonstrating on the first anniversary of the Beirut massacre of hundreds of Palestinian civilians by Lebanese Christian militiamen. 
Israel radio said one policeman was wounded and 25 Jewish and Arab protesters were arrested during the demonstrations marking the Sept. 16·1 7, 1982, killings in Beirut's Sabra and Chatilla camps. The massacre took place while the Lebanese capital was under Israeli military control. 
Lebanese poli ce and witnesses said artillery fire from Syrian-held north Lebanon struck Christian tar· 
gets in the port of Byblos, 23 miles north of Beirut, for the first time in the civil war, as well as neighbor­hoods in Christian-populated east Beirut. 
The police said dozens of shells and rockets slammed into vehicles and damaged buildings, killing at least 16 civilians and wounding 42. 

Placement begins tomorrow-
ByJOHN NEBLO 
News Staff 
On-ca1~1pus job interviews begin
• tomorrow when senior accounting majors meet with prospective employers. About I 0,000 interviews will be arranged by Career and Placement Services this year. Last year over 1,100 students participated in inter· views in 9,300 interviews arranged through the service. 
In order to arrange all of these in· terview, two years ago the Univer· sity purchased a software program which simplifies interview schedul· ing. 
Before the computer program was implemented, seniors would sometimes stand in line overnight to sign up for the interviews of their choice. Interviews are now granted according to set criteria. 
The student's graduation date is considered first. The next criteria is the student's preference. Each stu· dent may indicate two interviews of particular importance for which he or she will be given priority. The last consideration is the number ofinter· views the student has already had. 
Job interviews are not the only services provided by Career and Placement Services. Said Director Kitty Arnold, "Basically, we are an informative organization. We provide career counseling as well as being a source ofinformation to stu· dents." 

Arnold encourages students to take advantage of the services her organization has to offer. Students may arrange meetings with one of the three professional career coun­selors on the staff to discuss any vocational questions they may have. 
Arnold, however, advises students 
not to rely on the on-campus inter­
views to find a job, but to treat the 
job search as a campaign that re­
quires careful planning. 
Planning is especially necessary for Arts and Letters majors who do not have as many prospective employers recruiting on campus as their Engineering and Business counterparts. To aid these students, Career and Placement Services will sponsor an Arts and Letters Career Day October 13 in the LaFortune 

Continuedfrom page 1 
Mary Ann O'Donnell, director ofStu· dent Activities, as she followed with the reflection. "This is an exquisite building that calls to us for further development. It will enhance the living of our Christian community, but we must do our part to make it grow. And through our parts, we will see the risen Christ in each other in 
For Further information Contal·t: Dan R) bicld, Ps). J). 
239-7.136 

pur£8 because they Counseling-Psychological think they are fat Services Center 

SENIORS! 
student center. The meeting is open to anyone and will feature representatives from 31 different AI. career areas. 
Career and Placement Services does not limit itself to seniors. Un­derclassmen are welcome to inves· tigate their vocational interests using all the available facilities. In ad· dition, Career and Placement Services aids undergraduates in find· ing summer jobs and work inter· nships. 
Seniors who have used the service recommend that underclassmen begin gathering career information before their senior year. Said one senior,"the more you know about your possibilities in the job market, the better off you will be when it comes time to make a decision." 
.Haggar 

many ways." 
President Duggan read a blessing 

prayer which was followed by an 
address. According to Duggan, "We 
have all felt a need for the new cen· 
ter, not to study, but a place for play, 
recreation, and spiritual and cultural 
nourish· ment." 
Duggan said the new center will 

benefit students because "education 
is a leisure-time activity to discover 
the joys of living and not just to get 
ahead." 
"Each individual at Saint Mary's has a task, but no achievement is worth as much as what we discover in each other," said Duggan as he thanked the llaggar and Shaheen families, adding that the center will 
"renew cur sense of awe and won· der, and lead us to the reunion ofour souls." 
Following the ceremony was a picnic dinner and an "Irish Pub Night" which concluded a week of dedication activities. 

!rM Obscrvcr/lborn Bradley 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students enjoy the Saturday afternoon. amenities ofa well-stocked tailgater in Green Field on 
Cotnrade ofexecuted spy~ said vital to Rus_sian_ technology 
WASHINGTON -A Harvard re-sctenusts and engmeers who recent-conducting an emt~•raut interview 
searcher has uncovered evidence in-ly emigrated to the United States project under a thH,-r-,year, 
dicating that a long-missing from the Soviet Union indicate that $120,000 grant from ·,the 
associate of Julius Rosenberg, ex-Sarant not only went to the U.S.S.R., Washington-based National Coun•t;:il 
ecuted ,'\0 years ago for atomic but also emerged as a founder of for Soviet and East Europealtl 
espionage, assumed a new identity Soviet microelectronics. Research. 
in the Soviet Union and played a key According to Mark Kuchment, a He said the interviews have indi­
role in the development of Soviet science historian at Harvard's Rus-cated that Barr, an electronics en­
military computers. sian Research Center, Sarant he:-ded gineer who had shared an apartment 
On Aug. 9, 1950, following Rosen-first to Czechoslovakia and then to with Sarant in New York, also went berg's arrest by the FBI, 32-year-old Leningrad, where he lived and to the Soviet Union and assumed a electronics engineer Alfred Sarant worked under a new name-Philip new identity-as joseph V. Berg. fled across the U.S.-Mexican border Georgiyevich Staros. "According to the information I with a neighbor's wife from Ithaca, "His career really developed in have, joseph Berg is still alive. He N.Y., where Sarant had been the Soviet Union," Kuchment said, works in Leningrad," Kuchment working on a synchrotron atom-noting that by the early 1960s the said. smasher project at Cornell Univer-American defector had gained the Also reported to be still living in sity. attention of Premier Nikita S. Leningrad is Staros' widow, Anna, 
A few days later, the couple Khrushchev and Dmitri F. Ustinov, who as Carol Dayton -Sarant's 
disappeared. currently minister ofdefense. next-door neighbor in Ithaca and at 
Justice Department officials at the In 1969, Staros was named a that time married to a Cornell 
time said it was presumed that Soviet state prize laureate. After he physicist -had gone with Sarant to 
Sarant and another Rosenberg as-died of a heart attack 10 years later, Mexico in 1950. 
sociate, joel Barr, had defected to an obituary appearing in the govern-joyce Milton, co-author with 
the Soviet bloc. ment newspaper Izvestia saluted Ronald Radosh of "The Rosenberg 
But for years, the fates of Sarant him as an "indefatigable scientist ... File," a recently published study of and Barr remained a mystery. No who made a major contribution to the Rosenberg case, said she was specific information reached the the inception and development of impressed by the new evidence West regarding their whereabouts, microelectronics." emerging about the Soviet lives of work or personal lives. Kuchment, who himself left the Sarant and Barr. 
Now, however, interviews with Soviet Union in 1975, has been Walter and Miriam Schneir, co­
authors of another major book on 
the Rosenberg case, "Invitation to an

Cambodian meals aid 
Inquest," said in a letter appearing in the current issue of the New York Review of Books that "A few years

refugees and charities 
ago, the former Carol Dayton con­
tacted family members in the United 

volved." States for the first time, and she has
ByJANE KRAVCIK News Staff Micheal Skelly, senior, said that since corresponded and met with the best aspect of the meals is get­some ofthem." Refugee families in the South ting students to come to the esc. "According to family members, she and Sarant lived in Mexico for
Bend area will benefit from the "These meals let students know 
money raised by Cambodian meals about the center. It really benefits six months, during which time she held at the Cent t er for Social Con-everyone -it's a good alternative to decided not to return. They married, the Huddle. Also, it's a way to meet moved to Prague and later the Soviet 
cerns last week. 
new people." Union, and had four children. SarantThese are the first in a series of Anyone who has ideas for future had a successful career as anethnic lunches benefiting charities. 
meals and the charities they should engineer-scientist and died of aIf enough interest is shown, these benefit should contact Roemer at heart attack in 1979," the Schneirsmeals will be held every two weeks. 
the esc. wrote. 
The Cambodian meals, which were served on Wednesday and Saturday, were prepared bv Thien Trinh. Trinh owns a food stand called Cambodian Egg Rolls located next to the bus station in South 
Buy a Rib Tip & Chicken Dinner 

Bend. 
at Regular Price and 

Future meals will be served by 
get the Second at 1f2 Price S;um Augusti.Je's Soup Kitchen in 
Must Remit Coupon 

South Hend and by La Casa, a Mexican-American group which 
operates a day-care center in South Bend. 
Complete Carry Out-Phone Ahead 

Hickory Smoked Ribs 
The purpose of the~;p meals, 
Fried Chicken 

according to Mary Ann Roemer, 
Deliciously Thick Pizza 
event organizer, is to "provide an 
1~35 LWE, South Bend, in. 
Not valid in combination with other coupons No cash value. or specials 

opportunity for faculty, staff and stu­
Phone: 288-8240 

dents to be together in an informal 
Expires Sept. 30, 1983.

St. Rdl. 23 at Bittersweet 
way, while connecting the Notre 
--~ranger, ln. 

Dame community with the South 
Phc:.~ne: :77-3143 Bend community and raising the 
I ·~ ...

consciousness of everyone in­
\ -..__ 


Monday, September 19, 1983 -page 5 
''Race irrelevant," says Miss Atnerica 
Associated Press behind black issues without first 
judging each situation. 
"I don't think I'm going to be torn. 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. -Vanessa I'm an individual. Just because I'm Williams began her reign Sunday as black, doesn't mean I'm going to the first black Miss America by support every black position," she asserting that people should con-said. sider her abilities and not her race. Williams receives a $25,000 
"At times I get annoyed, because scholarship and can earn more than people and the press aren't focusing $100,000 for personal appearances on me as a person and are focusing during her reign. In addition, she on my being black," Williams, 20, said she expects to be in demand by said at a news conference. many groups who normally don't re­
"People aren't used to dealing quest a visit from Miss America, "like with change, but I think it has to hap-the Urban League." pen," said Williams, of Millwood, A Syracuse University junior 
N.Y. majoring in musical performance, 
Black leaders saw her crowning as Williams said she was startled by her 
a sign racism may be waning. Ben-sudden rise to the rhinestone­
jamin Hooks, executive director of studded crown of Miss America. 
the National Association for the Ad· "I had no idea I would get this far 
vancement of Colored People, in such a short time," said Williams, 
compared her victory with Jackie who last week said she did not even 
Robinson's breaking the color bar-consider entering the competition 
rier in major league baseball. until early this year. "It was barely 
"It will also wake up America to six months ago when I started out." the tragedy ofexcluding blacks from There was more minority the competitive arenas of life, like representation this year than in any l:~w. medicine, physics," Hooks said. previous Miss America Pageant, 
President Reagan called Williams which began in 1921. One former on Sunday, said Assistant Press leader of the organization said early Secretary Mark Weinberg, and told officials barred minority competi· her, "I just couldn't resist calling to tion. say 'congratulations.' Your selection Cheryl Browne, Miss Iowa 1970, is not onlya wonderful thing for you. was the first black to compete in the It's a wonderful thing for our na-event. Until Saturday, only two had tion." reached the finals -Deborah Lip· 
.~_flother ~lack contestant, Miss ford, the 1976 representative from 
New Jersey, Sih7..e\te Charles, 20, of Delaware, and Lencola Sullivan, Miss 
Mays Landing, fil'nsneo' '~ first Arkansas 1980, who was fourth 
runner-up. -,----.._~ner-up. 
"Suzette and I placed as we did be-Four tila<:K-.-"XJ>men and a Hispanic cause we're qualified," said Wit-competed this year, but only Wit-· Iiams, who was also the first black Iiams and Charles reached the finals. woman to win two preliminarycom-j***************l­petitions leading to the nationally -tc -a.;\).~ * televised final. -tc V * 
Miss Alabama, Pam Battles, was -tc ~et * second runner-up; Miss Mississippi, ~ o~se ..~,ed.S : Wanda Gayle Geddes, was third; and ~ * Miss Ohio, Pamela Helean Rigas, was : c\aSS lt­fourth. -iC * 
Williams said she won't fall in line -ie****************j 

September 19 
The Scarlet Empr••• 11934; usA 

Marlene Oretnch turns sexual appeal 1nlo pol•hcal power m lh•s 
halluc•natory h•story of the n$e to power ol Russ~a·s Cathenne the 
Great 

Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
~---lr t() ~ llt(31ti lr__.;$_z_.o_o.,. 

FREE PIZZA 
--2 plzz--s to~ the ~rJc;e of one.~ Buy any me "piDa light" at the regular price and recetue the Identical piDa Ftw.l No other coupotu · 
Ullth thla ojfer. Free deUUfli"JJ doa not apply. 
Polish Prine• Plzz•rl• 


VieWP-~O_i_n__t________
Mo-nd-ay_,s_ep-tem-b-er-19_,1-98-3-pa-ge-6 
Notre Dame men are people too! 

A calendar of the men of Notre Dame. Sounds innocuous enough. doesn't it? Ap­parently so, or at least to a group of women in Wabh and Farley flails who have decided to produce a calendar depicting twelve pre~umahly "cute" Notre Dame males. 
Mike Skelly 

Back again 
.. 

Despite its attractiveness as an easy form of fundraising, the calendar seems neither cute nor worthwhile. Sexism is one of the biggest problems at Notre Dame, and this calendar can only exacerbate what is already a sig­nificant social problem. 
For years women have complained about male chauvinism in our society at large, and 
the resulting treatment of women as sexual 
objects, rather than people. Progress has been 
made in this area, hut the reverse sexism 
which this calendar represents will only wors­
en the cause ofequality between the sexes. 
Ifa group of men proposed a "Notre Dame 
Chics" calendar, undoubtedly there would be 
outcries from many who rightfully objected 
to it. A calendar featuring Notre Dame women 
would he a denigration of women in general 
and could not possibly represent the diversity 
of the female segment of the Notre Dame community. Why should it he any different for a calendar of men? To eliminate sexism, double standards must be done away with on both sides, male and female. 
Another problem with this calendar is the inevitable misrepresentation of the Notre Dame men that it would constitute. By calling this calendar "The Men of Notre Dame," or any permutation thereof, it purports to make some sort of statement about what Notre Dame men are, should be, or perhaps could be if they would only subscribe to the dubious qualities this calendar seeks to elicit. 

The calendar could not possibly represent the richness and diversity of this school. Be­cause this calendar will depict so-called cute male students, the calendar and the men in it will only be a gross misrepresentation of Notre Dame. 
Supporters of this calendar have predictab­ly pointed out that many other groups across the country have produced calendars depict­ing students, often in various stages of undress, at their respective universities. Some of the women of Walsh and Farley apparently see this as sufficient justification for a calendar at Notre Dame. This strange reasonin'!. h.-u;-!'.'J" seems to be excuse enouW>-!:ur the repetition ofsexism tJ..~L. Turthermore, this logic seems to sh~W that little serious thought about the 
project's implications has gone into its plan­ning. Though dorms may need funds for their un­doubtedly worthwhile projects, fund-raising 
opportunities are not so few that Walsh and Farley must resort to a sexist calendar to raise money. Hopefully, the women of these two dorms will encourage their representatives to abandon the calendar, since it will only in­crease the all too apparent tension between the sexes here at Notre Dame. 
Finally, any male arrogant enough to feel that he could accurately represent Not•.., 
Dame men in general should strongly recon· sider his motivations behind participating 
in this calendar. Anv, s~rious_s_~amination of the
-... 

calendar and its ramifications will clearly result in its extinction due to non­participation by the men of Notre Dame. 
P.O.BoxQ 
~-------------------------------------------------~----~--------------------------------------------~ However, if it is considered proper to di~-may ·~!'pear sensible in theory, but without a Mr. Kemp goes on to say "His name as well as
Juvenile fun 
continue such "mindless" and "juvenile" ac-few'-"'mindless" and "degrading" activities the Germanicisms in his letter, indicate that tivities, perhaps it is time to consider ending now and then, we would be reduced to a he is not an American." Finally, he goes on to Dear Editor: other popular traditions unique to Notre coJclrless congregation of dull, inactive stu­make brash statements about past German Dame and Saint Mary's as well. An Tost:>.'• .:.ents. Please remember, Dean Roemer and Sr. and Austrian leaders. This letter by Mr. Kemp 
Pnhaps lkan Roemer and Sr. Karol would he a good start -mommy and !daddy Karol, that we do more than just study here. is an out-and-out radical slur. The issue at Jakowski were never children. If they had would never allow us to play mud v<~tlleyball We live here. We will spend the next sixty hand (the Soviet destruction of KAL Flight been, they would be ahie to put the "childish" or compete in chariot races. And wl'lat could years of our lives being mo~ture adults. Please 007, and Mr. Brauer's disp osal of a sign lying and "juvenik"' ht·havior of their students into he more degrading than hundred•~ of mature allow us to have a little mindless enjoyment in on the sidewalk stating "'SOVIET UNION a more reasonable perspective. and intelligent _st.>lllients tlngerpainting and our last four years ofchildhood. KILLERS OF INNOCENT PEOPLE") has no­
There arc few of us who would disagree playim:., r.hilr-lish games at "recess" in the. joseph Basque thing to do with the n;Jtionality of Mr. Brauer, with the fact that the annual tradition o~ .a. '!ll.epan Center? From Emil marches before nor whether or not he is an American. The "panty raid" b childish. Of C'lltr.o;e. iK Is." But each semester exam to basketball games on United States originated when peoples of
Nationality
twin•~ \.'"li!lth.la.'wy 110 m·eans makes it wrong or snow-covered courts, we amuse ourselves various ethnic and religious backgrounds improper. All jokes aside, the "panty raid" is a with countless immature activities every came together to form a nation. While ethnic 
Dear Editor:

lot of fun. It lcb olf steam, unifies each semester. discrimination existed on a large scale during campus, and is probably the first venture to We will all eventually outgrow "panty the 19th century, much of this prejudice has Saint Mary's for many freshmen. It may be con-raids," but for now, as one freshman so elo­Regarding the letter written by Mr. Ken­diminished through time. Sadly, as one may sidered "degrading" by administrators, but it quently put it, "we're fortunate to be old neth Kemp (Sept. 15, 198.3 ), I am shocked and see in the letter written by Mr. Kemp, racism is not sexually discriminating to either !;ide. It enough to know better; yet young enough to appalled by the response which he has made has not completely vanished from this is an event both sides look forwara to and en-enjoy ourselves." These activities give our to Mr.Jurgen Brauer's letter. country, nor even from this University. joy, and its popularity remains unchecked campuses the spirit and flavor that make them First, Mr. Kemp states, "If he thinks this is despite official discouragement. special. The somber maturity requested of us such good advice, let him keep it!" Further, ]obn V. Kellenberg_ 

Campus comments 
• 

Should the administration crack down on.ticket scalping? 
Yes, ticket scalping should be un­
I don't think they should, because 
der tighter se(·urity. The cost of 
the tickets are so hard to get. Scal­
tij<;hter security should he worth the 
pers give the opportunity to get my
cost of making ticket distribution 

friends and family into the game. more fair. 
Pat Sweeney Carol Holland Classof'85 Classof'87 John McEachen Mike Kearney Accounting Saint Mary's College Father ofNotre Dame junior MBA 




Ihe_Qbseaer=======!?r!~~:~~~e~.0 ~~~ .......... oavid Dziedzic  Department Managers  
Uox {!. Nf•tre /Jame. /!1/ ·16 S ')(,  I.! I 'J) .!39-SjOJ  Managing Editor ............. Margaret Fusmoe  Business Manager., ............. Daniel O'Hare  
The IJh.H'TI'£'T ''the mdt·pendt·nt nt·wspapn published hY tht· stmknts of the Uni­ Executive Editor . ................ Paul McGinn  Controller . ...................... Alex Szilvas  
versity of Notrt· DanJt· du l.ac and Saint l\1ary"s Colkgt·. It dot·s not ncccssariiY reflen  News Ediror . ................ Bob Vonderheide  Advertising Monager . .............. Chris Owen  
tht· potiues of the administration of citht-r institution. The n~:ws is rt·portt·d a.' a<.·  News Editor .................. Mark Worscheh  Composition Manager . ........ Suzauuo: i...a Croix  
curatdy and as ohjenivdv as possible I nsignnlediwriab r~:prcscnt tht.· opinon of a  Saint Mary's Ediror . .......... Anne Mona!i_tyr:.sl<i  Circulation Manager . ............. Mark Miotto  
majority of tht· hfltorial Board Commentaries. l~:t(crs. and the lnsidt.· Column present  Features Edilor . ............... Sarah Hamilto11  System. Managn ............... Kevin Williams  
tht.· Vtt·ws oftht"ir authors. ( :olumn spatT is available 10 all mcmhcrs ofthc t.·ommunitv.  Photo Editor  .................... Scott Bower  \  
and thc frn·t·xpression ofvarnng opinions on t·ampus. through letters. is t•nt.·ouraged.  Sports Editor....  ..... \'lichuel Sulli\·an  1  
'  Foundrd Nove"toer J, 1966  
I  

l t ­
/ 
~­
··\. 

Showcase 
Monday, September 19, 1983-page 7 
Keeping in tune with the nation 

by Ed Augustine 
features staffreporter 
T
he Notre Dame Progressive Musik Club is a new organization with a mission. It is a movement determined to bring people togeth­er under the rising popularityofnew music. 
The club, led by president Barney 
Grant and vice president Rob Syd­
ner, only came into being last year. 
Presently, both men are hard at 
work to make this year's plans for 
the club truly outstanding. 
"The club must establish a strong 
membership. Once we have ac­
hieved this goal we can concentrate 
on the scheduled party plans," ex­
plains Clark. Weather permitting, 
the club plans to make an excurslbn 
to the Dunes the Saturday before the 
Miami game and intends to sponsor 
a benefitdance for the Logan Center. Also, during the October break, the club would like to make a trip to Toronto. "We would be checking out the culture, history, and partying system, because the students ofthe University ofToronto definitely party differently than us," stated Grant. Other ventures will include spontaneous trips to Chicago to see concerts. 
The club would also like to con­
tinue tailgating, especially for the 
USC game, along wlth putting on 
monthly dances similar to the 
"Chance to Dance" that took place 


Something to tell the children 
.• r.~ •• 

J
on its own. having to put a laminated card withby·Marc Ramirez They tried anyway. They wrote your picture and ID on it into a little features staffreporter letters about it, and they promised a machine every time you want to eat. noofine to anyone caught in or on Sure it's demeaning, but so is not im Pemas was right. a Saint Mary's dormitory. It was sug­
being able to decide for yourself They came in droves, just as al­gested that ifstudents wanted a so­whether or not you want to leave"a ways. cial event in which they could meet room in a dorm ofthe opposite sex And nothing stopped them. each other, they could think of at a certain hour ofthe night. The "strongly worded" letter something besides a panty raid. The Sure, it's childish and immature, didn't keep them from coming, and "necessity'' ofthe tradition was but perhaps you've heard that Cap'n the $100 fine didn't stop some from questioned Crunch is coming to campus in Oc­scaling the walls. So next year, let's do it. Let's tober. A throng offreshmen are 
No, this was the night on which change tradition. Let's have a How­looked down upon ifthey run to Notre Dame freshmen guys un­About-A-Big-Square-Dance-Since­Saint Mary's on one night ofthe year, leashed the savage beasts within, the We-Can't-Have-A-Panty-Raid party. but Cap'n Crunch is going to be run­
night on which they let loose their Or a huge bonfire where everyone ning around the campus ofthe Uni­arrimalistic emotions, the night on can stand around and talk about the versity ofNotre Dame for five days. which they ran like a herd ofhomed old days when we used to have a And, little ones, he is going to give buffalo to their destination with only panty raid and how fun it used to be. away prizes. one thing in mind. Or maybe we can have a sock raid And someday, my children, you Panties. instead. Girls can just as easily write will be able to say that not only did 
Yes, this was the panty raid, that down their names and phone num­Knute Rockne, and Pierre Trudeau, colorful event which precedes the bers on normal socks, can't they? andJimmy Carter, and Ronald first home football game each year. And the freshmen guys can run the Reagan, set foot on this campus, but 
For one night, all sense ofidentity, trek to Saint Mary's with socks on so did Cap'n Crunch, and you'll be not to mention self-pride, is lost to a their young minds, excited as ever. 
damned ifyou're going to let anyone wild night of Neanderthal-like And they can display the captured put down your alma mater. mania. socks proudly on their <!,oors and in And on that someday, you can tell Now what's wrong with that? their rooms, and the Class of'88 can them about the traditions that lived It seems to me that every culture go down in history as the first class on, and you can tell them about the has at least one occasion on which to break the tradition, and we can all Panty Raid. You can tell them about everyone is allowed to have fun and sit around and talk about how it was how the administration disap­go wild. Take New Year's Eve, or St. when Notre Dame had a panty raid, proved, and how the occasion was Patrick's Day. Every place, every and how fun it used to be ... 
really very harmless and wasn't community, has to break out ofthe Did you everget the feeling some­forced on anyone who didn't want every-day routine once in a while. thing just wasn't going to work? 
to take part, unlike the process of Enter the panty raid. Maybe they'll get mean and nasty registration. It's been called all sorts ofthings. and threaten a Sl00 fine to anyone You can tell them about the raid Fun. An experience. An opportunity. taking part in the panty raid They'd you took part in, and how the Cultural. Exciting. A great way to make a lot ofmoney ifthey did. And security guard at Saint Mary's, who meet people. A briefencounter. maybe in a couple ofyears, our real should have been against such Some people descnb\.~.it&­parents would receive a bill that shameful, mindless, degrading, ferently. Childish. Immature. Mind­/'"Vould read: demeaning, harmful activity, wasn't less and degrading. Foolish. upset and wasn't even frowning as Demeaning. T~ion J7500 you went by. He just grinned and But there is one adjective to Room and Board u 500 waved at you, because he realized describe the event which no one can Studei:tt Activity Fee J50 what you were doing and why. argue with, and this is the reason the Observ:er Fee flO It was tradition. panty raid occurred as always despite administrative objections. 
A juniorfrom Phoenix, Az., Marc It's traditional. The tradition will live on as k~>ng Ramirez is majoring in American Tradition can't be killed; ifit's as the freshmen are willing. Sure, it::; Studies. Marc writes a bi-weekly going to die, it's going to have to die mindless and degrading, but so is · · , columnfor "Showcase." 
this Friday night on the second floor of La Fortune. 
The overall theme ofFriday night's dance was a promotional one. Familiar tunes from Culture Club, ABC, and Human League in­corporated with new music from Al­tered Images, New Order and Yaz were switched on and offthe turntables. The DJ, Barney Grant, played anything that was within the frame ofdance music, such as Mic­hael)ackson, Grand Master Flash, pop music and soul. "A happy medium between the many genres ofmusic helped to make the partyan interestingone," comments Grant t. One Notre Dame junior said, "It was great that people got into the dance and were able to forget the general apathy that accompanies so many campus parties." At the same time a Notre Dame sophomore pointed out that "amidst the sweat and grime from everybody jamming, the dance 
provided a very good outlet for people who really enjoy this sort of thing." All ofthe dee-jaying is con­trolled by Grant who takes full responsibility for the music played saying,'It is like my little toy." 
With a main emphasis on new music, the PMC hopes to keep the selection of music in a Midwest uni­versity like Notre Dame up to par and constantly aware. 
Any students or faculty who are interested in finding out more about the Progressive Musik Club cancon­tact the president, Barney Grant, at 283-8362. 
The first meeting ofthe PMC will be this Wednesday night, place and time to be announced. 
Ed Augustine is a freshman from Teaneck, NJ. Though he has not declared a majoryet, Ed is thinking ofentering the Program ofLiberal Studies. 
/ 
I 

Sports Briefs 
American skipper Dennis Conner now 
knows the Australians can heat his boat in light winds, and that ifhe wants to keep the America's Cup here, he'll have to seek stouter breezes. "We're hoping to have a little different weather and see how we go in that," said Conner after Australia II trounced his yacht Liberty hy three minutes, 14 seconds, yesterday. Conner immediate­ly asked for and was given a day offtoday after the first Aussie victory m the best-of-seven cup championship series cut his advantage to 2-l. "We thought there might he more wind on Tuesday," the defending America's Cup king told a news conference after taking the worst cup defeat by a U.S. defender since 1871. How much wind would he like? "About 40 knots," Conner said to laughter. The 12­meter yachts can't go out to race in anything over 25. The Australian yacht with its secret winged keel quickly sailed off to a big lead in yesterday's race, lost some of the edge briefly, but moved ahead steadily on the last three legs. "We tried everything we could think of and she looked awfully good," Conner conceded. But he em­phasized that he is still ahead. "I'd say that with a 2-1 lead, things don't look too bleak," said the veteran of four straight cup cam­paigns. The southwest winds yesterday on the race area in Rhode Island Sound were clocked at an easy seven knots at start ofthe race and up to I 0 at the finish -conditions where Australia II has shown speed all summer. The Australians, beaten in the first two races with major equipment failures both days, were buoyed hy the win. -AP 
The ND-SMC Equestrian Club is holding a 
general meeting for all members in room 2-D of LaFortune at 7 p.m. tomorrow night. All are welcome. Anyone with questions should call Maureen Babis at 283-8004. -The Obseroer 
All Saint Mary's students who are interested in competitive swimming and diving should come to a meeting tomor­row at 10 p.m. in the lounge in Regina that overlooks the pool. -The Observer 
TonyFurjanic,Notre Dame's middle linebacker, will be one of the featured guests on Speaking ofSports tomorrow evening at 10 p.m. on WSND-AM 64. Call239-6400 with questions and com­ments. -The Obseroer 
Fuzzy Zoeller nursed home a diminishing lead with a final round 7 3 and scored a 4-stroke victory yesterday in a new PGA tour event that was billed as the richest golf tournament in the world. The happy-go-lucky Zoeller, who led or shared the lead throughout the 90 holes ofthe five-day Las Vegas Pro-Celebrity Clas­sic, acquired his second victory of the season and fifth of his Tour career with a 340 total, 18 under par for the marathon event spread over four courses in this desert resort. He collected SI35,000 -the largest winner's check on the US. tour -from the total purse of 
S1,050,000 and vaulted from fifth place into the lead in the season's money-winning race. Zoeller, a former Masters champion, ooostea his season's earnings to S413,852. Hal Sutton, the second-year tourist who had led the money-winning standings since March 28, t failed to qualify for the final round here and did not add to his S413,423 total. Zoeller, who led by a whopping six shots at the start of the day's play and once held an 8-shot margin, had to withstand the late bid of Rex Caldwell, a career non-winner who has played well so often in the desert. -AP 
continuedfrompage 12 
tie Clemson 16-16. 
Elsewhere, Alfred Jenkins' 13­
yard touchdown pass to Jon Horton 
touched offa barrage offive second­
half TDs and seventh-ranked 
Arizona, ahead only I0-6 at halftime, 
survived the loss of quarterback 
Tom Tunnicliffe with a sprained 
ankle and thumped Washington 
State 45-6. 
Scott Stankavage threw three 
touchdown passes in the first half i 
and third-string tailback William 
Humes rushed for 161 yards as No. 
10 North Carolina trounced Miami 
ofOhio 48-17. 
Walter Lewis completed 13 of 15 
passes for 230 yards and one touch­
down and ran five yards for another 
score in 12th-ranked Alabama's 40-0 
rout of Mississippi. Coach Ray 
Perkins is 2-0 since succeeding Bear 
Bryant. 
Chuck Long passed for an Iowa­
record 345 yards and two touch­
downs and scored on a 5-yard run as 
the No. 13 Hawkeyes downed Penn 
State, making the defending national 
champions 0-3 for the first time 
since 1964. 
Fred Crutcher rushed for 111 
yards -more than all of Southern 
California's runners gained a week 
ago, and Sean Salisbury passed for 
two scores to lead the 14th-ranked 
Trojans to a 33-10 victory over 
Oregon State. 
Neal Anderson rushed for 165 
yards and Wayne Peace threw a 15­
yard TO pass to Joe Henderson with 
9:22 to go as 15th-ranked Florida came from behind to defeat Indiana State 17-13. 
Pitt and Southern Methodist, the Nos. 18-19 teams, were not scheduled. 
Nebraska wingback Irving Fryar caught scoring passes of 68 and 70 yards from Turner Gill and dashed 41 yards on a reverse for another touchdown as the Cornhuskers piled up their biggest point total since a I00-0 pasting of Nebraska Wesleyan'in 1917. 
In addition, Mike Rozier gained 196 of Nebraska's 585 rushing yards on just 15 carries and scored three times in helping the Huskers roll up the most points ever against a Min­nesota team. 
Ohio State's Tomczak, who came into the Oklahoma contest as the na­tion's No. 1-rated passer, compl~ted 15 of25 for 234 yards. The Buckeyes also had I 78 rushing to I77 for the 

Monday, September 19, 1983-page tS 
• • • Upsets 
Sooners, who lost star tailback Marcus Dupree with a second­period knee injury atter he carried just six times for 30 yards. 
Texas held Auburn to a pair offirst downs and 51 yards while building a 20-0 halftime lead and made it look easy. 
George Perles pulled offa shocker in his second game as Michigan State's coach. The Spartans, heavy underdogs, used Yarema's scoring passes of 81 and 14 yards to Darryl Turner and 5 yards to Butch Rolle ­the last one broke a 21-21 tie in the final period -to spoil Notre Dame's home opener. 
Washington trailed Michigan 24­10 before beginning its comeback on Walt Hunt's 3-yard run with 9:06 remaining. With 3:40 left, Michi­gan's Todd Schlopy missed a 32-yard field goal attempt, and Washington drove 80 yards in II plays for the winning points. 
Tulane opened a 14-0 lead over Florida State on Treg Songy's 99­yard interception and Curt Baham's 77-yard punt return. But the Green Wave trailed 21-14 at halftime before English went to work. His 15 yard pass to Wayne Smith put Tulane in front 31-21 in the final period. 
West Virginia fell behind Maryland 10-0 in the first period as Hostetler had two of his first three passes picked off. But he threw a 44­yard pass to Rich Hill to set up Tom Gray's 17-yard tie-breaking run in the third period and added scoring passes of 42 yards to Rob Bennet and 43 to Rich Hollins. The weekend featured a pair of 
outstanding  place-kicking  perfor  
mances.  
Bruce  Kallmeyer  of  Kans:l!  

booted five field goals and six con versions to set an NCAA single-game record of 21 points by kicking in the Jayhawk.~' 57-3 pounding of Wichita 
State. 
And Texas A&M's Alan Smith tied the national record of six field goals in a game, connecting from 44, 45 42, 33, 59 and 57 yards -the las one after the Aggies called time out with seven seconds left -in a 38-0 rout ofArkansas State. Smith also had two conversions for a 20-poin game. 
NV A Tennis Pairings 
All matches must be played and reported to the NVA office by Wednesday. September 21. 
Men's Open Tennis Cogan (6057) v. Logan (1677) Runger (1432) v. M. McCabe Pujals (6653) v. Ralph (1903) Bulon (6394) v. Boulet (8433) Arellano (1461) v. Miller (1107) Cooke (3316) v. Collins (6919) Calloway (1527) v. Muyres (1775) Powers (1600) v. Welsey (6961) Bery (1177) v. Marchaunz ( 1652) Poiner (1471) v. Cterzniak (1669) lmmonen (3091) v. Goldner (6937) Mischke (4521) v. Curis (7743) Gee (1022) v. Chou (3256) O'Brien (1692) v. Antonini (1633) Weimholt (6921) v. Soergel (1575) Simone (3122) v. Griffin (1176) James (1530) v. Deeter (1963) Walker (1723) v. Donahue (1424) Retdy (9070) v. Harman (1 062) Duncan (1103) v. Kelleher (6943) Wall (1195) v. Reyes (1372) lsiwaka (6944) v. Foley (1725) Hayes (1195) v. Knipe (8917) Richardson (277-1405) v. Weigel (3171) Sharp (3344) v. Hanna (3106) Rench (1073) v. Tuel (1476) 
~haler (1219) v. Grunewald (6602) petrances (1139) v. Goulet (7563) ~rojean (1246) v. Hardiman (1223) 
Players whose names do not appear have received a pye. 
MIXED DOUBLES 

Retd-Gonzales (277-7651) v. Gee-Jones (1022) Marten-Morrow (6640) v. bye Moore-O'Bryan (7670) v. bye Reyes-Schwebel ( 1372) v. bye Gotuaco-Villalon (3329) v. Niii-Fay (1266) Reusch-Carol (1073) v. Callis-O'Grady (1266) Clifford-Locke (6171) v. Kelly-Toal (1073) Stermtcke-Dolan (7691) v. Gardiner-Sloane (6646) Huebi-Campbell (3236) v. Russell-Russell (2695) Rade·McEiroy (1504)-w. Jacoby-Pico (2966) lmmonen-lmmonen (3091) v. Cooke-Schmell (3316) Thompson-Rodgers (696b) v. Grojean-Moltnsky (1246) Goulet-Duvet (277-7563) v. Paratso-Dougherty (1271) Klisart-Lynch (1696) v. Stavetski-Stephen (6695) Wall-Hagaman ( 1195) v. Bailey-Constdine (3642) Reardon-Bayle (6866) v. McGtnn-Tomkowttz (6173) Curtis-Danon (7443) v. Taneff-Kohlhass (1129) Sobczak-Delapena (1639) v. Benner-Zalud (1474) r Szatkowski-Szat (6652) v. Swiecish (277-4161) 
Oliva-Batley (1596) v. Cotn-Schaffer (6603) l Cleveland-Gallus (4514) v. Farley-Cameron (6191); Kelly-Holbauer (1605) v. Callaway-Ritchie (1527) 1 Ganshirt-Cortes (1765) v. O'Bnen-Aimetda (1692) Lavoie-Kelly (6622) v. Chandoer-Berestka (7650) Bond-Dimello (1 027) v. Meager-Greene (234-9914) Krenzer-Eversoll (6016) v. Deeter-Lechner (1963) Randaii-Rosenstre (3417) v. Kaelin-Rowbury (1416) Deleo-Deren (~4-6496) v. Sacre-Bery (1177) Runger-Schmid (1432) v. bye Bosco-Upda v. bye Walters-Collins (3334) v. bye Poirier-Ukraine (1471) v. bye 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

Typing, ALL KINDS. 277-6534 after 5:30 
M-F. All day wknds. 
........!!.................................................... . 
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287·4082. 
THE OBSERVER OFFICE AT SAINT MARY'S IS NOW OPEN MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY FROM 12:30 TO 3. THIRD FLOOR HAGGAR CENTER, 
284-5315. 
.................. REMEMBER YOUR ROCK & ROLL CLASS EVERY MONDAY, 7·9PM, LAFORTUNE BALLROQM. WALK IN ALONE OR COUPLE. CHANGE PARTNERS ALL EVENING. LOADS OF FUN FOR $3 EACH CLASS. ALWAYS A BEGINNER'S CLASS/ 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST-NO ring with tnitials P.R.M. Dark purple stone set in gold. Call Paul at 239­5313, or at 277-4651. $40 reward, no questions asked. 
lost, silver watch last week. Watch has engravtng on the back. If found call Colin 6604. REWARD. 
LOST: Keys on digital watch chain. II found, call Sheila at 284-5-433. Lost in area of Flanner-Grace night of Sat.. Sept 
3. 
FOUND: One Chemistry 115L Lab Card in Huddle. Call John at 1747 to claim. 
FOR RENT 
NEEDED: ONE FEMALE ROOMMATE WITH EXCELLENT STEREO TO SHARE TOWNHOUSE. CALL 272-5139 
NEED 1 OR 2 HOUSEMATES, CHEAP RENT. GOOD FOOD & DRINK, FAIRLY OPEN MINOED MATES, 6 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 1/2 BLOCK FROM BARS CALL MURPH 287-9252 
WANTED 
WANTE·o~·-28 .. 3·s·~-~d-·bik~:··~~~~--~~ 
womens: call272-6229 after 5. 
HELPI/1 NEED 2 USC GA'S. WILL PAY $$$.CALL BRENDAN 7791 
WANTED. NO-USC tix. Call 716-377­7075 evenings 6-10 p.m. 
Any ND/SMC student interested in shoot­tng pool or starting a club. call284-6341. 
~F_O_R_SA_L_E~~ 
Underwood/Olivetti typewriter, 1976 but has only 2 years use.$80.00 277-2543 
Charming Cape Cod close to N.D. at 1501 East Madison in N.E. 2 B.A. panneled bsmt. family room or studio. 2 baths, fenced yard. Ideal lor professional couple. Priced to sell at $35,500.00 Forbes/ Vaner 287-7293 Evenings 291­0610 
5-room house lor sale. 1621 Caroline, 269-4965 ask lor Mike or Dorothy. 
FOR SALE: 1 REFRIG EXCELLANT CONDITION. SAVE $ AND BUY ONE FOR FOUR YEARS. 234-0302. 
............................... ...................... 
Couch. chair, T.V .. lor sale, CHEAP! 272­
3605. 
IRIDESWANTED 
RIDE NEEDED TO MIAMI (OHIO) FRI 9/23 SEAN 277-1405 
RIDE NEEDED TO MIAMI (OHIO) FRI 9/23 SEAN 277-1405 
Ride needed to NW suburbs of Chicago (Palatine or vicinity) 9-23 return 9/25. will share usual. II you can help, call Mary at 264-4286 
~~--TI_C_KE_T_S~ 
NEED USC TIX. PLEASE CALL 8584. 

I HAVE 4 MSU AND 2 Pm TICKETS, BUT I NEED USC INSTEAD. LETS TALK. CALL JERRY AT x1713 AFTER 
8. 

NEED 2 USC GAS CALL BRIAN 6961 
HELPI NEED USC TIX STUDENT OR 
G.A. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 277-4309 
Desperately need Penn State game tick­ets. Call Brian at 8795. 
TICKETS NEEDED FOR USC-MUST HAVE---CALL CHRIS AT 234-7279 
DESPERATELY T NEED YOUR MSU GA'S/ CALL MIKE at 1627 
HELP I NEED USC TIX CALL MARY 2645064 
HELPI NEED TIX FOR NAVY AND PITI­CALL PEG 1314 
TICKETS WANTED FOR Southern CAL, TOP dollar paid call: 267-8277 HOWIE 
Need 10 G.A.'s to the U.S.C. game. Will pay any amount tor tickets. They need not be together. Please call Dan at 1779. 
I need 3-5 Navy or Pitt GA's. Call Theresa at 284-5442. 
Willing to trade 5 (FIVE) PITI tick~ts lor ONLY 4 (FOUR) USC tickets. c,all 1723 Ask lor Kev. 
................................................................
' 
PERSONALS 

I need 1 student ticket lor Mich. State. Call Mike x6770. Thank-you. 
MULTIMILUONAIRE FRIEND WILL PAY MULTI-DOLLARS FO T R 4-11 TICK· ETS TO MSU OR USC. CALL BILL AT x1713. 
APPLICATIONS FOR JUDICIAL BD AT STUDENT ACTIVITIES IN HCC OR 174 LM 
THE OBSERVER Saint Mary's office is now Open from 12·30 to 3:00. Monday through Friday. 3rd floor, Haggar Center, 264-5365. 
Do you want to have fun this year? Have hall dances, talent shows. contests, and just plain old get togethers? Vote tor t~ pair that can't be topped -t MICHELL.; COLEMAN and LAURA TOPPI~~ ·10'r Regina Hall President a,. Vice-President. "' 
NEW FACUL TV MEMP,ER FROM PALESTINE NEEDS H~cP GETIING ORIENTF.n. T,'U 'SOUTH BEND. SHE HAS. A CAR AND DRIVER'S LICENSE, 't!UT NEEDS HELP LEARNING MAIN 
STREETS. NEIGHBORHOODS, ETC. CAN YOU VOLUNTEER YOURSELF ONE OR TWO AFTERNOONS IN THE NEXT WEEK? CALL LYNN AT 239-5293­·CSC 
Any type of FILM lor only $.50. Call1312 for more information. 
NEW FACULTY MEMBER FROM PALESTINE NEEDS HELP GETIING ORIENTED TO SOUTH BEND. SHE HAS A CAR AND DRIVER'S LICENSE . BUT NEEDS HElP LEARNING MAIN STREETS, NEIGHBORHOODS, ETC. CAN YOU VOLUNTEER YOURSELF ONE OR TWO AFTERNOONS IN THE NEXT WEEK? CALL LYNN AT 239-5293­-CSC 
···················································•············ 
NEED 2.3 OR 4 TICKETS FOR USC OR PITI GAME. I AM DESPERATE AND WILLING TO PAY. WE'RE TALKING BIG BUCKSI CALL MOAT 1311. 
HEY BOB E. LIFE IS LIKE A POSTCARD WITHOUT A STAMP -IT'S JUST NOT GOING TO GET YOU ANYWHERE, RIGHT?II I HEAR VA' •••• YOU WERE BORN A POOR BRICKLAYER'S CHILD•.•• YOUR PAPA BIJII-'1: ~.llMHJo HA!J. IMl\'o FOUR BRICKS AND HIS 
BARE HANDS •••. 
ITAllAN CLUB ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING: TUESDAY. SEPT. 20 AT 8 OOPM LAFORTUNE UTILE THEATRE 
HEAR YEI HEAR YEI The N.D. Shakespeare Club will hold an orgintz ational meeting on Wed. 9/21 at 6·00 p.m. in 331 O'Shag. Refresh ments will be served. 
d. 
And the lnSAINity goes on, amidst the COHNfusion . d. 

_.,... -...~· ..........-........,.....~-.. _.................... ~---..,....·--·----~~ -·-·--·.....,---··-........ 
The Observer Monday, September 19, 1983-page 9 
Phils grab NL East lead again 
NFL Standings 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -AI Oliver ninth. squeeze bunt, the Braves tied the and Terry Francona delivered run­The Brewers led 7-0 after two in­score in their half when Rafael 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE NATIONAL CONFERENCE
scoring hits in a two-run fifth inning nings but fell behind 9-7 when Bal­Ramirez hit his seventh homer. 
EAST EAST 
as the Montreal Expos beat Pitts­timore scored six runs in the eighth 
w L T Pet. PF PA w L T Pet. PF PA Miam1 2 0 01.000 46 24 Dallas 3 0 01.000 93 60
burgh 5-2 yesterday to drop the -including Eddie Murray's grand Hou. 4, Cin. 1 
Buffalo 2 1 0 .667 38 41 Philadelphia 2 1 0 .667 48 50 
Pirates out of a first-place tie in the slam homer. Milwaukee forged a 9-9 
Baltimore 1 2 0 .333 62 68 Washington 2 0 .667 80 56 New England 1 2 0 .333 70 76 N.Y. Giants 1 0 .333 35 57
National League East. tie with two runs in the ninth. CINCINNATI (AP)-Alan Ashby 
1 0 .333 64 69 St. Louis 0 3 0 .000 61 104N.Y. Jets 2
The loss ended a six-game Pitts­and Terry Puhl smashed solo 
CENTRALCENTRAL 

1 .667 Green Bay .667
burgh winning streak and dropped S.F. 6, L.A. 3 homers to lead the Houston Astros 
Cleveland 2 0 69 60 2 1 0 69 87 Pittsburgh 2 1 0 .667 75 63 Minnesota 2 1 0 .667 63 85
the Pirates one game behind to a 4-1 victory over the Cincinnati 
Cincinnati 0 3 0 .000 23 47 Chicago 1 2 0 .333 65 64 
Houston 0 3 0 .000 72 101 Detroit 1 2 0 .333 51 61 WEST Tampa Bay 0 3 0 .000 26 47
Philadelphia, a 5-3 winner over St. SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -Joel Reds yesterday behind the 
Youngblood drove in the first four
Louis. The Expos remained two-and­combined six-hit pitching of Mike 
L.A. Raiders 2 0 01.000 40 16 WEST
San Francisco runs as the Giants beat 
Denver 2 1 0 .667 41 33 Atlanta 2 1 0 .667 63 47 Seattle 2 1 0 .667 64 58 L.A. Rams 2 1 0 .667 70 60 
a-halfgames behind in third place. Scott and Frank DiPino. 
the Los Angeles Dodgers 6-3 yester­
l-'irates starter Rick Rhoden, 11-Ashby rapped his eighth homer of 
Kansas City 1 2 0 .333 43 57 New Orleans 2 0 .667 89 78 
13, took a 2-1 lead into the fifth and day, completing a three-game sweep the season off Mario Soto, 16-13, 
San Diego 1 2 0 .333 77 89 San Francisco 2 0 .667 107 66 
quickly got two outs before Andre ofthe National League West leaders. with one out in the second inning to 
Dawson lined a triple down the right Despite the loss, the Dodgers put the Astros ahead to stay. maintained their three-and-a-half
field line. Oliver followed with a The Astros added a run in the ground-ball single up the middle and game lead in the National League third on singles by Bill Doran, Puhl, 
Thursday's Results Cleveland 17, Cincinnati 7 
West over the Atlanta Braves, who
Francona then delivered a triple to and jerry Mumphrey. 
Yesterday's Results
lost 4-2 to San Diego in 13 innings.
break the tie. 
New Orleans 34, Chicago 31, OT

San Francisco starter Mike
The Expos put the game on ice Det. 9, Bos. 6 
Pittsburgh 40. Houston 28 

Krukow, 11-9, gave up but five hits, 
Green Bay 27, L.A. Rams 24 San Francisco 42, St. Louis 27 

with Jim Wohlford's two-run pinch including a leadoff homer in the
single in the ninth. BOSTON (AP) -Kirk Gibson, 
New England 23, N.Y. Jets 13 

ninth by Derrel Thomas, before 
Washington 27, Kansas City 12 Atlanta 30, Detroit 14 

Scott Sanderson, 6-6, worked the Lou Whitaker, and Wayne 
leaving in the ninth. Greg Minton
first 5 2-3 innings for the victory but Krenchicki collected three hits each 
Buffalo 28. Baltimore 23 

gave up two more Dodger runs on a
gave way to Bob james, who earned and the Detroit Tigers erupted for 
Philadelphia 13, Denver 1 0 Seattle 34. San Diego 31

single by R.). Reynolds before,Gary
his fifth save. five unearned runs in the seventh in­
Dallas 28, N.Y. Giants 13 

Lavelle came on for his 18th save. 
ning to defeat the Boston Red Sox 
Minnesota 19, Tampa Bay 16. OT 
9-6 yesterday. 

Phil. 5, St. L. 3 S.D. 4,Ad. 2 
Tonight's Game
Gibson had a double and infield 
Miami at Los Angeles Raiders 
single off Boston starter Dennis "Oil

PHILADELPHIA (AP) Ivan ATLANTA (AP)-Rupertjones, a Can" Boyd, then homered off
Dejesus' seventh-inning squeeze late-game defensive replacement in reliever Mark Clear in the eighth.
bunt scored the winning run as the center field, slugged a two-run 
I
Whitaker and Krenchicki each had a

Philadelphia Phillies beat the St. homer in the 13th inning to give the 
I
double and two singles, while Enos

Louis Cardinals 5-3 yesterday for San Diego Padres a 4-2 victory over 
Cabell drove in two runs with a pair

Steve Carlton's 299th career victory. the Atlanta Braves yesterday. 
ofinfield hits. 

Jones, who entered the game in 
Multiple
Winner Milt Wilcox, 10-10, scat­

Carlton, 14-15, gave up eight hits the 1Oth, connected for his 11th 
tered six hits in seven innings.

and three runs in seven innings to homer against Ken Dayley, 4-6, with Boyd, 4-6, allowed 13 hits, but five
move within one win of the 300-one out and Tony Gwynn on base 
of the eight runs charged to him

victory level reached by only 15 with a single. were unearned. He was shelled in
pitchers. AI Holland retired the final Gary Lucas, 5-7, the fourth San 
Choice
the se\'enth when the Tigers

two batters for his 21st save. Diego pitcher, gained the victory. capitalized on two errors by Eddie 
Don't leave your dinner to guesswork.
Greg Gross opened the Phillies' After the Padres had gone ahead 
Jurak and one byJim Rice.

seventh with a double and advanced 2-1 in the top ofthe eighth on pinch­
D 

to third on Bo Diaz's sacrifice bunt. hitter Kurt Bevacqua's suicide-Dejesus then dropped 1own a 1-1 
3oz. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
(Serving)

pitch from Joaquin Andujar, who NATIONAL LEAGUE I 
East
East Protein 12g I

fumbled the ball and threw too late 
w L Pet. GB 

Fat 10g Philadelphia 79 70 .530 
w L Pet. GB

to nab Gross at home. Baltimore 91 56 .619 Detroit 85 64 .570 7
The Phillies added an insurance Pittsburgh 78 71 .523 1 
New York 83 65 .561 8.5

Montreal 76 72 .514 2.5
run in the eighth on an RBI single by Toronto 82 68 .547 10.5
St. Louis 73 75 .493 5.5 
Miiwaukee 79 70 .530 13

Gary Matthews. Chicago 67 62 .450 12 
Boston 72 76 .480 20.5

New York 61 86 .409 18
Andujar, 6-15, allowed seven hits Cleveland 66 83 .443 26
Westin going the distance, but two of Los Angeles 64 
West
85 .570 
x-Chicago 69 60 .597

them were consecutive first-inning Atlanta 81 67 .547 3.5 
Houston 78 70 .527 6.5
home runs by Mike Schmidt -at 3 7 Texas 71 79 .473 18.5
San Diego 75 74 .503 10 
Oakland 69 82 .457 21

he leads the major leagues -and San Francisco 71 78 .477 14 
California 65 83 .439 23.5

Cincinnati 68 81 .456 17
joe Lefebvre that gave the Phillies a Minnesota 64 65 .430 25 Seattle 55 93 .372 33.5
3-2lead. 
x~clinched division title 

The Cardinals tied it in the fifth. Carlton's seven strikeouts Yesterday's Results
Yesterday's Results Chicago 6, New York 5 
I
Cleveland 10-8, New York 6-13 

boosted his major-league career 
Philadelphia 5, St. Louis 3 -Detroit 9, Boston 6 
I

leading total to 3,690, 29 more than Montreal 5, Pittsburgh 2 Baltimore 10, Milwaukee 9 San Diego 4, Atlanta 2, 13 innings 
I

runner-up Nolan Ryan ofHouston. Chicago 6, Seattle 0 
Houston 4, Cincinnati 1 Oakland 6. Kansas C~y 2 
I

San Francisco 6. Los Angeles 3 Texas 7. California 6 
I I

Bait. 10, Mil. 9 
I

BALTIMORE (AP) -A one-out 
I

single in the ninth inning by rookie 
I

John Stefero scored the tie-breaking 
I

run and gave the Baltimore Orioles a 10-9 victory over the Milwaukee 
I 
I

Brewers yesterday. 
.., Seprember 19 

Glenn Gulliver singled with one 
Shall We Dance? (1937) USA-RKO Directed by Charles Walters BIW, 109 mrn

out in the ninth off reliever Pete 
Astarre plays a ballet dancer who would rather tap rn one of the funmest 
and most charmrng of th\ Aslarre-Rogers musrcals A spar1drng score by George and Ira Gershwm ransforms Astarre from tugh art to popular 

Ladd, 3-4, and Lenn Sakata drew a 
walk before Stefero grounded a 
Domino's Pizza is the best Coke available
(Hollywood) art A romanr · duet on roller skates and the comic banter 
of "Lei's Call the Whole 1nrng Off'" are musrcal hrghllghts 

choice. Just 2 slices are 16 oz. bottles
single to right. 
more nutritious, lower in

The victory was the ninth in the 

..'Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
fat and higher in protein 

Umlted delivery area. than either a taco or ©1963 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
last 10 games for the Orioles, who -$2.00 
rallied from a seven-run deficit for T ~u ~ lltf3 lt-i·lr___..........,........,. 
cheeseburger.

the second time this season. The loss 
Nutritional information from: Table 1.
was a club record-tying ninth 
Nutritionol Analyses of Fast Foods, 
So give us a call and put 

United States Agriculture Research 
straight for the Brewers. 
us to the test. Service.
Tippy Martinez picked up the win in reliefto raise his record to 9-3. He was the fourth Baltimore pitcher 
I
N.D. FINANCE CLUB 

and yielded a tying home run to 
r---~------------------,
Mark Brouhard in the top of the 
Mondays only. 
Only $6.99 for a 16" 
..._.. e 

Htem pizza plus 2 16 oz. bottles of Coke. 
IMPORTANT 
$~.99

• Roc.co's Hair ~ 
One coupon per pizza 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
I. 
Expires: 1 0/1 /83
!j_]styling l 
TONIGHT 7 p.m. 


Fast, Free Delivery~ 1835 South Bend Ave.
124 Hays-Healy 

Plaza 23 Center 
Phone: 277·2151 
531 N. Michigan St., 
ii1A RA"' •. ?.Af 

35167/2650 


South Bend 
All interestedplease attend 

Phone 233-4957 
~----------------------~ 
L••--"""""""""""""""""""""""""""..s 
Monday, September 19, 1983-pagc:JO
The Observer 


1bC' Observer/lucian Niemeyer 

RalfMojsiejenko, tbe Michigan State kicker, played a major role in Saturday's game as be kept the Irish offense pinned deep in its owm territory. Mojsiejenko, who wanted to come to Notre Dame, averal(ed almost 50 yards a punt. 
TOMORROW 
field hockey vs. Taylor College field east ofthe ACC 4p.m. 

Annanao·s Barber & Hair Styje Shop 1437 North Ironwood Drive Sputh Bend, IN 
HOME OF THE IRISH 
Four Stylist5 to Serve You Five minutes &om cam us 

SAVE$$$ 
2.5 cubic Dormitory Refrig. 
$35.00for School Year Limited Quantities 
BURNS RENT-ALLS INC. 
332 W. Mishawaka Ave. Mishawaka, IN 
259-2833 

Spartan kicks Irish out ofgatne 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
Losing coach Gerry Faust called 
him "the difference in the game." 
Winning coach George Perles 
predicted that he had "a great career 
ahead ofhim." 
And he was the one responsible 
for the rain after the game. 
Who was this remarkable person? 
Was it safety Phil Parker who inter­
cepted two key passes? Was it Dave 
Yarema who passed for three touch­
downs? Was it Derek Bunch who 
had a game-high 19 tackles? 
None ofthe above. 
It was the man with the rocket 
foot, Michigan State kicker Ralf Moj­
siejenko. 
Whether he was launching ra t in­
makers that kept the Irish pinned 
deep in their own territory, or hit­
ting low liners that carried 70 yards 
or more, Mojsiejenko was providing 
that extra edge that the Spartans 
needed to pull offthe big upset. 
"I've never had a game like this 
before," said Mojsiejenko. 
Not many people have. Not only 
did Mojsiejenko average nearly 50 
yards on each punt, but he also 
boomed every kickoff into or over 
the endzone except for one. And it 
was his 71-and 58-yard punts late in 
the game that allowed Michigan 
State to keep the Irish out of the 
endzone. 
Mojsiejenko's performance was similar to that of Rohn Stark, the Florida State punter who, two years ago, kept Notre Dame bottled up for the entire game, allowing FSU to win the game in the final quarter. Stark is now among the leading punters in the NFL 
The performance of both punters 
-Stark also averaged almost 50 
yards a punt -demonstrates how 
important a dominating kicker can 
be, especially in a close game. Be­
cause of Mojsiejenko's kicking, the 
Irish found themselves with poor 
field position almost every time they 
regained possession. It was a 
problem that they did not have 
against Purdue. 
"When we came out in the second 
half," said Perles, "it was our plan 
that, every time that the ball was ex­changed, we would gain 10 yards." 
When you have a kicker like Moj­siejenko, this plan usually works, and Saturday was no exception. While the Spartans were improving their field position, Mojsiejenko was making sure the Irish were not. Michigan State improved the spot where it began its drives from their own 20 to the 24 to the 43 to the 45. Notre Dame, on the other hand, was losing ground, starting at its 27, then its 35, 18, and 14. 
Eventually, the poor field position caught up to the Irish as Parker picked off a Blair K.iel pass and 
returned it 42 yards to the Notre 
Dame 3. 
But there is another twist to the 
Mojsiejenko story. It seems that 
Mosjiejenko, who lives in nearby 
Bridgman, Mich., wanted to come to 
Notre Dame but was not recruited. 
"I was contacted as a junior by Notre Dame," he says, "but I had a poorsenior year as a field goal kicker (0-for-5) and they were recruiting me as a field goal kicker." 
He might not have kicked any field goals on Saturday, but he was able to get his revenge. 
"Beating a Notre Dame team that I wanted to play for, but that didn't want me, means so much to me," smiled Mosjiejenko. 
But, while beating Notre Dame makes Mosjiejenko feel good, the respect that he gets from his coaches and teammates makes him feel even better. While kickers are sometimes looked down on by the other players because they do not have to go through grueling practices like everyone else, a team knows when its kicker is bailing them out of tough situations. 
Michigan State faced one of those tough situations in the fourth quar­ter on Saturday. 
With just over ten minutes remaining and the score tied at 21, the Spartans faced a fourth-and­inches inside their own 30. They elected to punt, hoping that Moj­siejenko could keep the Irish from getting good field position. They were not disappointed. 
Mojsiejenko took the snap and rocketed a kick that Notre Dame returner Greg Bell could only watch fly over his head. The ball hit the 
ground 60 yards away and bounced into the endzone. Two plays later, Parker made his key interception. 
"I really enjoy it when we have a foot to go and the coach goes for the punt," said Mojsiejenko. "It shows that he has faith in my kicking." 
Millions of Notre Dame fans now believe in Mojsiejenko's kicking. More than one of them felt the rain and wondered if Mojsiejenko was to blame for that, too. 
After all, when Notre Dame loses, doesn't God cry for the Fighting Irish? 

S.plllfllber 'a GaiM Michigan State 7 t4 0 7 -28 Notre Dame 14 7 0 2 -23 Scoring 
ND -Bavaro 2 pass from Kiel (Johnston kick) 
MSU-Turner 81 pass from Yarema (MOJSieJenko kick) ND-Bell 50 run (Johnston k1ck) MSU -Butler 34 run (Mojs1e1enko k1ck) MSU-Turner t4 pass from Yarema (MojsieJenko kick) 
NO-Howard 13 pass from K1el (,lohnston k1ck) 
MSU -Rolle 5 pass from Yarema (Mojs1ejenko 
kick) 
NO-Team safety 
IISU ND 

First downs 9 25 
Rushing anempts 29 80 
Net Yards Rushing 80 283 
Net Yards Passing 165 163 
Passes comp-anempted 15-23 15-31 
Hed intercepted 0 3 
Total Net Yards 225 448 
Fumbles-lost 1·1 4-1 
Pena"ies-yards 3-24 9-69 
Punts-average 9-49 8-44 
lndlvldu•l LA..,. 
RUSHING-Michigan State: Butler 18·98: Turner 
1-2; Mobelli 1-1; Morse 2-1: Notre Dame: Bell18­
114: Pinken 25-t04: Smith 7-40; Brool<s 2·12: 
PASSING -Michigan State: Yarema 15·23­0,t65; Notre Dame: Kiel15-31·3,183: 
Anendance -59.075 
Loss 
continuedfrom page 12 
-
With Allen Pinkett doing most of the work, K.iel led the Irish back to the MSU 33-yard line. When the senior quarterback completed a fourth-down prayer to Mark Bavaro at the 18-yard line, the sellout crowd rose to its feet, and it appeared a story book ending was about to un­fold. 
However a costly intentional grounding penalty forced a third­and-33 situation. After an 11-yard 

Interested in Taking a Class in Ballroom Dancing? 
Wednesday, September 21, will be the first lesson 
ofa five week ballroom dance class that will be 
held on Saint Mary's Campus in the REGINA HALL 
BASEMENT from 6:30-8:00 p.m. 
This class will be taught by Ray Sexton from 
Indianopolis and total cost is only $25 for five weeks. 
Ifyou would like to join this class, you can register at the first lesson. 
This offer is limited to Notre Dame and SaintMary's Students Only. 
Q.Q.2.ill 0QQ Q 0000 OOQ_QOQ_Q_QOOOOOOOO O_Q.0000'_ 
completion to Bell, it was do-or-die time for the Irish. 
On fourth down, K.iel went to Howard, but Howard was forced out of bounds five yards short of the yardstick. Skeptics immediately questioned the call, but Faust had an answer for them. 
"The fourth-down play was designed to make a first down," commented Gerry. "What happened was the receiver was forced to come under short even to catch the ball." 
Although Notre Dame got a 
chance to throw one more pass after 
an intentional Spartan safety, for all 
intents and purposes, the intentional 
grounding penalty was the ball 
game. 
After the game, a pleased George 
Perles praised his team for its efforts. 
"I'm scared to say what I r<.ally think about this team. I knew they would play hard, but I didn't know if it would be enough to win. "We ·knew they were bigger and stronger. I told them to go out and play as hard as they can, and they would have a lifetime to remember it." 
Meanwhile Notre Dame's Chris Brown summed up life in the loser's locker room. 
"We can either get our heads to­gether and be up after this, or we can sit around and mope. I'm sure next week you'll see a different Notre Dame team." 
It better be a different Notre Dame team, perhaps the one that played against Purdue, or else the Irish may find themselves 1-2 with Pittsburgh, Southern Cal, Penn State and Air Force yet to come. 

' T0 day_____-_-.. ·_.·_~._____________M_o_n_d_ay_,_s_ep_t_e_m_b_e_r_1_9_,_1_9_8_3_..___......_~_:_·~-~-1-1 
Bloom County
r--------..., 
··~11'-1/6 CIAUAS..~ ANAM~ ~MY PAST...VA KNOW, AS r 
VOV 01-U ca-INW WC. UP 1D . 
AN~! 
CUPID POINT IN YAA RllliCUW\15 UTT!.E VfhA '~WAGON" 
I 

ANI7... ANP... 
\ 




Spike's World 

Fate 
H£ ff.OMt5£0 Tfi~T Wt 
WOULDN'T 8( [M8AKI:JfSSfD 
ANYMOR[, Bur [ F[[L 
EM15Af{RASS£D ANYHOW. 






CfJM[ ON, THIN(jS COU LO (Jf WORSt. 
J./ow? 
ACROSS 25 Moneyln 1 Sounds of . the pot laughter 26 Meager

The Daily Crossword 
6 Swift horse 29 Jason's s 10 Fellow ship 14 Tennis 30 Cry star Chris 33 Step 15 Chapter of 34 Protection ~+--+-t--1 the Koran 36 Basket 16 Take on fiber ~+--+-+--4 17 Infielder's 38 Manager's choice choice ~+--+-+--+.....,t--1 18 Pitchers' 41 Famous 
choices Dodger 20 Pair 42 Wilander 21 Villain's of tennis 
look 43 Nautical 23 Declare term -+--+---1 persls· 44 Daysof tently yore 24 Hat mate­45 Motherof rial Chastity 

©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 9/19/83 All Rights Reserved 
~.:;;;~~!:;;~~~~~~~ 
9/19/83 

'.rhe Irish Gardens 
,your Screw your Roommate Headquarters 
~ 

6p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16Photius  
22 22 Eyewitness News  
28 Newswatch 28You cow.o 8£ A  
6:30p.m. 16 MASH5fUD£NT .tr ~NN  
22 Family Feud  
28 Wheel of Fortune  
7p.m. 16 Bob Hope Special  
22 MASH  
28 That's Incredible  
34 Survival Special  
7:30p.m. 22 Square Pegs  
8p.m. 28 Monday Night Football: Miami at Las  
Angeles  
34 Great Performances  
8:30 16 George Burns Special  
9:30p.m. 22 Newhart  
34 Together Alone  
10p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16  
22 22 Eyewitness News  
47 Obvious  13 Annoyance  34 Big Red Football  
49 Ornamental  19 Ensnare  !0:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show  
button 50 Waterless 51 Textile design  22 Pick 24 Disengages 25 "-weall?" 26 Steeple  22 Hart to Hart/ Columbo llp.m. 28 Newswatch 28 11:30p.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman  
54 Warble  27 Switchboard  
55 Society girl, for short 58 Batter's choice  section 28 Took effect 29 The fans after a homer  I  Far Side .  
60 Lyric poem 62 Notion  30 Out of con­dition  
63 Spirit 64 Marked down  31 Oleof­and Johnson  
65 Aerie  32 Plague  
66 Pro­ 35 Pointed  
67 Young years  37 Flash flood 39 Drink of  
DOWN  the gods  
1 Influence  40 Poplar tree  
2 Admit  46 Nimrod  
frankly 3 Game winner  48 Silver, in heraldry  
4 Curve  49 Summer  
5 Stone  ermine  
pillars  50 Italian  
6 Balance  commune  
sheet item  51 Skinny  
7 Riverin  52 Adjutant  
Germany 8 Macaw  53 Hwys. 54 Card game  
9 Powder  55 Be overfond  
or soda  56 Delightful  
10 Picked  place  
11 Sound  57 Cots  
equipment  59 According  
12 Sandy's barks  to 61 "Raven" man  


Berke Breathed 
Campus · 
PJ( C:!WRC£, I 
Dllll·.flr FEa. A1HING. 

•3 p.m. -ComputerMinicourse,JCUTSO Con­
=0 

version, 115 Computing Center 
•4 
p.m. -Speaker, E. Fay Jones, Architecture Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Pre Law Society Meeting, Library Auditorium 

• 
7 p.m. -Monday Night FUm Seies, "The Scar· let Empress," Annenburg Auditorium 

•7 
and 9:20 p.m. -Shakespeare Film Series, "The Taming of the Shrew," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by College ofArts and Let­ters, Free 

•7:30 
p.m. -Scholastic Writers Meeting, 3rd. 


Floor LaFortune

Tom Wrobel 
•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "What About the Russians," Dr. George Brinkley, ND, Multi-Purpose Room of Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by ND/SMC Ground Zero 

•8:30 
p.m. -Informal Discussion, Introduction to Charismatic Renewal, LaFortune Little Theatre, Sponsored by Log Chapel Prayer Group 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Shall We Dance," Annenburg Auditorium 


' TV Tonight 

Applications are now available atS.U. 2ndFloor LaFortune for: 
PRODUCER AND DIRECTOR 
~I 
FOR SPRING PRODUCTION OF STUDENTPLAYERS 
Submit application by September 30. 
Boura: 12:80-8:80 

Stay OD ClmpUIIDdlaYI $$$ bylettin' Ulr 
?? ContactMary Stevens 239-7757 
DialM-U..JI-8 (8887) take care of JO•r Dower need.• 
~ .. \'===. -~.. E:::§»~ =e ::ftr' "" fd'~r...-• ~ 
Sports 
Monday, September 19, 1983-page 12 
Big plays lead to MSU's upset ofIrish 
By STEVE LABATE the game. Sports Writer On its next possession, MSU went ahead for the first time in the after­
Disappoinment. Frustration. An· noon. The big play this time wa~ a ger. Astonishment? No, it's no longer 34-yard pass, Yarema to Bobby a shock when a Notre Dame football Morse, that put the ball on the Irish team loses, at least it has not been 14. From there, Yarema hooked up the past four sea~ons and two games with Turner again for the score as -a stretch of time in which the the split end beat sophomore Pat Irish have gone 28-16-2. However Ballage. Saturday's lost to Michigan State The Irish offense could not get un­hurt more than most of the other tracked after that. K.iel was afforde t d losses or ties because it delivered a little time to throw the ball as a cruel jolt to the hopes of those banged-up offensive line had its people who dreamed of a National hands full with MSU's Carl Banks, Championship in 1983. Not a death Derek Bunch and Jim Morrissey. 
blow mind you, just a cruel jolt. However the Irish were able to 
The key play of the game oc· mount a drive right before the half curred early in the fourth period ended to go into the locker room with the score knotted at 21 apiece. tied 21-21. On second and one from his own 29-It appeared that perhaps Notre yard line, Irish quarterback Blair Dame would have to settle for a field K.iel threw the ball into heavy goal when they faced fourth down coverage a~ his pass pocket col­and four yards to go with :SO left on Ia~ped around him. The throw was the clock. But Faust gambled, and hurried and forced, and waiting at K.iel hit Joe Howard with a 15-yard the other end pass was MSU toss to bring the ball to the MSU 11­strongside cornerback Rodney yard line. Two plays later, the Kid­Parker who returned it 47 yards to Howard combination connected for the Irish 3-yard line. the score by the flag on the right 
Two plays later, Spartan quarter­sideline. 
Soccer team controls Loyola 
back Dave Yarema found Butch "We came back right before the Rolle in the left comer of the end half," said Faust. "I thought we did an zone for the winning score. Even excellent job of moving the ball. We 
though Yarema's third touchdown thought that would give us some ByPHILWOLF Rich Herdegen on the right wing generating an average of six goals a Sports Writer and shot it past Rambler goalkeeper game heading into the contest with
pass of the afternoon floated a bit, it momentum back in the game." Todd Wieglos for his sixth goal of Loyola, but Head Coach Rich Hunter
was not broken up because Stacey It did not. While hoards of people were the season. was not too concerned about the
Toran slipped, turned, and lost a step The second half belonged to Ralf 
on Rolle. Mojsiejenko as the Spartan punter sweating through the football pep Notre Dame continued to score. rally at Stepan Center Friday night, a dominate play in the second period, "We didn't expect a very high­
"Stacey had that tight end consistently forced Notre Dame to smaller, but enthusiastic, crowd and the Rambler defense began to scoring game," he noted afterward.
covered," said a disappointed Gerry start from deep in its own territory. 
bundled up under the lights at Car­break down under the continuous "We were expecting a real tough
Faust afterwards. "I think he slipped "I think the difference in the tier Field to see the Notre Dame soc­pressure. The Irish had numerous game, and they really gave it to us in
about two steps before he caught it game," said Faust, "wao; the ability of 
cer team shut out the Loyola scoring opportunities, as they pep­the first half, especially defensively."
for a touchdown. But those are the Mojsiejenko's punting. We were in Ramblers, 3-0. pered the goal with 30 shots, forcing The Irish will be playing tomor·
breaks ofthe game." poor field position most of the The Irish controlled the ball well Wieglos to make twelve saves before row at St. Joseph's, and they are
This wa~ an afternoon when MSU game." got most of the breaks, got the key After Rolle's touchdown from the start of the game, but a the end of the game. Loyola mus­hoping for another shutout. Six
grab 

strong Loyola defense repeatedly tered only three shots on the Irish straight shutouts would set a new
turnovers, and made the big plays -made the score 28-21 in the Spar­turned them away from the goal. goal. Notre Dame record, which Hunter
all this despite trailing 7-0 before its tans' favor, the Irish could not move It was not until there were only Notre Dame's second goal of the says is "real important to the guys."
offense could put 4Js hands on the the football until they began their 
ball a~ Notre offense last gasp drive with 5:08 remaining four minutes remaining in the first evening came at 25:19 ofthe second IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame will
the Dame half, that the Irish got on the half, as sophomore Mark Bidinger, be at home again on Friday evening
scored the first time it touched the in the ~arne. scoreboard. At 40:51, Ken Harken­unassisted, tallied his fourth of the at 8 p.m. when Kentucky comes to
football. 
see LOSS, page 10 

rider took a pass from fello"\V-captain season. Sophomore midfielder Chris Cartier Field. On Sunday, the Irish
That Irish drive was perhaps their Telk concluded the scoring with an will host Indiana on Alumni Field at 
finest of this young sea~on. Allen unassisted goal at 39:59. The goal 2 p.m. Notre Dame has been unable
Pinkett accounted for 43 yards in was Telk's first ofthe season. to defeat Indiana in five straight
the drive via the pa~s and the run, Friday night's victory wa~ the fifth years, but Hunter says that the team
but it was K.iel's needle-threading straight shutout for the Irish, now 5-be concentrating
pass to tight end Mark Bavaro that will on defense 1 overall. this week in preparation for this im­
gave the Irish its first points of the Notre Dame's offense had been portant match.
day and a 7-0 edge. After the ensuing kickoff, Yarema and Daryl Turner accomplished in 

Upsets oftop tea·ats
24 seconds what it took Kiel & Co. over six minutes to do. With all day to throw, Yarema found a wide-open 

marks college -week
Turner over the middle on a cross­ing pattern. With Pat Ballage trailing Dodge, an 84-yard
By HERSCHEL NISSENSON capped first­
him, the senior speedster headed for 

AssociatedPress period drive with a 1-yard keeperthe flag and ran to an 80-yard touch­
and Rick Mcivor teamed up with down pass reception. But the big 
On a weekend when six members Kelvin Epps on an 80-yard pass play plays were just beginning. 
of the Associated Press Top Twenty in the second quarter a~ third· Seven plays later, Greg Bell aided 
were knocked off and another was ranked Texa~ stifled Auburn 20-7. by a great Tim Scannell block, broke 
tied, No. 1-ranked Nebraska made Three touchdown passes by Dave free from a pack of Spartans and 
sure there would be no room at the Yarema, two of them following in­raced 50 yards for a score. The Spar­
top. terceptions by Phil Parker, paced tans were blitzing and the Irish 
The Cornhuskers churned out Michigan State to a 28-23 upset of 
burned them with the call. 

780 yards, scored at least two touch­Notre Dame. "We had a blitz on that, and he 
downs in every quarter and tallied Steve Pelluer pas sed 7 yard:; to went right into the meat ofthe blitz, seven times on plays of 27 yards or Mark Pattison with 34 seconds to 
cut back the other way and we 

longer in swamping Minnesota 84-play and then completed a two­missed a tackle," said George Perles, 
13. point conversion pass to Larry Mic­MSU Coach after the game. 
"I am really sorry we scored that hael as No. 16 Washington nipped
The 14-7 lead did not last for long 

many points," said Coach Tom Os­Michigan 25-24. however. Although Notre Dame wa~ 
borne. "1 just hope the people up Tulane quarterback Jon English,
dominating the game statistically, its think wehere (Minnesota) don't playing his third straight game under defense uncharacteristically 
was were vindictive. We were just run­a court order that prevented the giving up the big play. 
ning ba~ic plays." NCAA from declaring him ineligible,The Spartans set up their next 
Second-ranked Oklahoma. No. 4 directed three second-half scoring score when Phil Parker intercepted Notre Dame, fifth-rated Auburn, No. drives as the Green Wave stunned 
K.iel on the second play of the 
8 Michigan, ninth-ranked Florida Florida State 34-28. 
second quarter, returning the ball 
State, and No. 17 Maryland were the And Jeff Hostetler passed for two 1 5 yards to the Notre Dame 34-yard 
Top Twenty losers. second-half touchdowns and set upline. 
Sharpshooting Mike Tomczak another, leading No. 20 West Vir­On Michigan State's first play from fired his fifth and sixth touchdown ginia to a 32-21 triumph over scrimmage, Yarema looked for Tur­passes of the season -16 and 1 S Maryland. 
ner again, but Joe Johnson leaped 
yards to tight endjohn Frank in t the Meanwhile, No. I 1 Georgia
and batted the ball away at the ten­haJf as sixth-ranked Ohio
first -needed a 31-yard field goal by Kevin yard line. Although Johnson saved a Mark Bavaro makes an outstanding catch on a fourth down State defeated Oklahoma 24-14. Butler with 38 seconds remaining to touchdown on the play, Carl Butler 
play to keep aliveNotre Dame'sfinal drive. It was allfor naughtas Rob Moerschell, starting at quar· 
ran 34 yards on the next play to tie see UPSETS, page 8
the Irish could notscore. terback in place of injured Todd 








