• • • GoneGonzo -page 8 

TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) -The Is­event." raeli army said it reached an agree-· They flew the commander of the ment with l'.S. authorities yesterday tank patrol from Beirut to Tel Aviv reaffirming Israel's right to patrol in for a news conference at which he the area ofBeirut where three Israeli gave his account in terse but oc­tanks were challenged by a pistol· casionally mocking terms. waving U.S. Marine. Lt. Col. Rafi, whose surname also 
There was no immediate com· was withheld for security reasons, ment from U.S. officials. said his three tanks were on an anti­
Marine Capt. Charles B. Johnson guerrilla patrol following attacks told a Beirut news conference that that have killed two Israelis and when he jumped on the lead tank wounded 29 in the past six weeks. Wednesday he grabbed tlie Israeli Israel says many of the attacks commander and told him that if the originate behind Marine lines. tanks wanted to advance, "you're Rafi said his tanks were HOO yards going to have to kill me." south of the Marine-controlled 
The Israeli commander ofthe tank campus when he saw the Marine of­patrol told a Tel Aviv news con­ficer approaching in a jeep. ference yesterday he was "rather "I got offthe tank, went up to him amused" by the pistol-waving and and asked him what the problem that he told johnson. "Don't worry, was. He said, 'This is American ter· I'm not going to kill you." ritory and you're not allowed to be 
Brig. Gen. Amnon, the Israeli com­here."' mander who worked on the latest ar­Rat! said he replied that as far as he rangement, told Israel radio that knew, he was not in Marine ter· contrary to the expressions of con­ritory, but "ifwe're in disagreement, cern and anger from Washington, bring me your superior officer so we the Americans in Beirut had ad­can talk. ·But he didn't want to do mitted to him that the whole affair that." was "half-funny, half-sad, no more He said johnson then "pulled out than that." a pistol, pointed it at the sky and 
Bluebelt]oe Disa, gets afootfrom Steve Travis, TaeKwonDo Club. (Photo by larry Petras) 
The general, whose last name was 
3rd Don Black Belt Instructor ofthe Notre Dame
See ISRAEL, page 4
not given for security reasons, said the Americans told him the Marine officer acted under the mistaken im­pression that the Israeli tanks were Senate district 5 headed for Marine-controlled ter­ritory. 
An Israeli army communique said 
Candidates push for OC resident c·enter 
that at a meeting between Amnon 
and a U.S. diplomat, it was reaffirmed The following is the conclusion dictates. students, improving the D-6 parking should be done with the student that the north-south Beirut railroad of a five-part series describing the Rose Desloge and Rich Spolzino, lot, and starting a bus service for stu­center" so there will be "a place was the eastern perimeter of Marine candidates in each of the five Stu­this year's candidates, also feel the dents who do not live near Transpo where off-campus residents can get territory, and that the area east of dent Senate districts. Toda_v·s seg­university should supply more on­routes. The following is a profile of together v.·ith other off-campus resi· 
that, including"the scene ofWednes­ment profiles candidates from campus housing for students. Both each candidate's position: day's dispute, was open to Israeli District 5, which consists of off­agree that many people are living off Rose Desloge wants to "get in­Campus , patrols. campus students. campus who would prefer not to be. volved" in student government."The 
* Campaign '83.
It said the zones "will be marked Some suggestions for solving this junior believes the Senate "isn't ef. 
in the field by colored barrels to By TOM MOWlE problem include building student fective and should be more active." prevent any future misunderstand­Campus Campaign Reporter apartments on campus and building Desloge has served on the Lyons dents." She also feels more should be ing." more dormitories. Hall Council and beleives she has a done to integrate transfer students, 
The Israelis professed to be mys­A student center where off-The candidates mentioned "good viewpoint" on campus as "many are forced off campus be­tified at what a spokesman called campus residents can congregate is several other ideas. These include problems. cause they can't get housing." 
"this so-called incident. this non-a top priority of both District '5 can-giving more freedom to off-campus The biology major thinks "more Rich Spolzino says the Student Senate "needs leadership to reach its potential as a policy-making body." He feels the Senate "should have
Judaism lecture 
responsibility, not just make recom­mendations." 
Spolzino believes off-campus stu­dents "shouldn't he restricted as much as on-campus students." Off­
'Jews not bound to live by Torah,' says Rabbi 
By ANNE MONASTYRSKI tent with the interpretation of the tinued. Thejew lives by the "written haps our damnation," Wolf said .. 
campus students, he says, "have
SeniorStaffReporter Torah," Wolf said. ··1 know no one law," the Torah in "every detail." "Jewish identity is an achieve­taken on the responsibility" ofliving
who does that any more." "Jews are performing more of the ment connected to the divine apart from the university, and have
jews no longer believe that they Wolf and Rabbi Yekiel Poup)w, Torah but believing less," he said. understanding of the Torah," Wolf "proven themselves able to handle
are bound to live by the Torah, said also of Chicago, led a panel discus­Wolf thinks ihat the confusion be­said, it is not "a good feeling of it."
Chicago Rabbi Arnold Wolf last sion on "The Faces of Judaism tween performance and conviction belonging" to some community. night. Today," in the Library Auditorium is a growing trend. In formulating the problem facing 
The sophomore notes, "Many people are living off campus who
As "modernism invades the last night. "We are building on an insubstan­jews, Wolfsaid, "There is no jew but don't want to be." To solve this
Jewish community." he said, jews "Interpretation of the written law tial foundation of incoherence," the orthodox jew, and there are no problem, he suggests building more
are faced with the dilemma of signifies a bond between God and Wolfadded. orthodoxJews anymore. 
dorms and considering alternate
attempting "to makeJudaism consis-man and God and jews," Wolf con-Modernism gave rise to different Poupko understands the problem interpretations of the Torah. The of "modernity" facing the jews as housing apartments on campus, "similar to Henle Student Village at
liberal,"neo-classical" version is the something that neither philosophers Georgetown." Another issue the
personal application of parts of the nor secularized jews can solve. "The architecture major considers impor-­
Torah to one's life. "You are obliged important questions can't be tant is the improvement of the D-6
by it if it calls you," Wolfsaid. answered," Poupko said. The problem with this The Bible as a literary work 
parking lot behind the ROTC build­ing, which off-campus students and
"permissive religion," Wolf said, is helped explain how Je~ "respond "how do I know if Isaiah is address­to a great crisis," Poupko< said. "It is 
South Quad rt'sidr::nts use. ing me?" authentic Jewish thinking." 
Spolzino b'elieves there is a need· Another interpretation holdsjews Returning to the idea of"story tel­for a new'student center on campus, which could be placed where the
accountable only for the part of the ling" would help in the understand­fieldhouse now stands.
Torah which they are capable of un­ing of the problem facing Jews, he derstanding. This version is "not said. "There's no answer to why six Finally. he suggests the ad­mini~tration consider initiating a
stupid, but frightening," Wolf said. million Jews died in concentration speciai hus service to areas ofSouth
The belief that "all God wants is for camps" in World War II, but writing human beings to be good," and that about it in the same tradition as the Bend which are not near present Transpo lines and hou,·. large num­
the interpretation of the Torah does Torah could bring jews to a better bers ofstudents.
not matter is "our dilemma and per-understanding of the Holocaust.




ews Brie/§ 
Hy The Obseruer and The Associated Press 
Black student enrollment at Notre Dame thi~ 
year is 2.7 percent. according to the latest figures of the Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights. while the percent is 0.3 at Saint Marv's. Other Catholic universities and their black enrollment in­clude DePaul. 11.0 percent; Fordham, 12.4; Georgetown, 5.8; Boston College. 2.6; Marquette, 5.1; Catholic University, 5. 7; Dayton, 5.4; and Villanova. 1.8. Black enrollment at public schools include Michigan, 
5.0 percent; Alabama, 12.0; UCLA, 6.2; USC. 7.1; Texas, 2. 5; North Carolina. 8.4; and New York Unversity, 7.6. Sixty-four campuses in America are all white. -The Observer 
The three CandidateS for Notre Dame student body presid~nt will participate in a public forum Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Ombudsman Director Tom Koegel an­nounced vesterday. Juniors Brian Callaghan, Tim Connolly and Liza Salvador ~viii each make five-minute campaign statements, then answer questions from the audience. The forum is the first to be held since the 1980 campaign. -The Observer 
Sixteen of the 50 sharks in the San Diego Sea 
World's viewing tanks have died in the past week and the displays have been closed while baffled officials search for a cause. "We don't have any prime suspects at this moment," spokeswoman Jackie O'Connor said yesterday. "Just a whole lot ofthings we're looking at." Six species are represented among the 16 sharks that died in Sea World's S2 million shark collection. The most recent deaths came Tuesday, but O'Connor said "the biologists are very careful about saving it has slowed down or maybe even stopped." Some began 'wimming ~pasmodically before dying, their tails drooping. Others swam faster and bumped into their neighbors, and many had trouble breathing. Killed were bull sharks. brown sharks, lemon sharks, black­tip sharks, Galapagos sharks and bonnet-head sharks, ranging from three and a half to nine feet long and weighing from 45 to more than 300 pounds. Officials said the bullsharks struggled for hours before expiring and the nurse shark species were unaffected. Experts began dissecting the dead animals' kidneys and livers to search for toxins or micro-organisms. "It's a tough time for everybody," fish curator Ray Keyes said. "Everybody has worked so hard to establish this facility. To lose so much in a couple ofdays .. .it's hard to take." -AP 
The FalstaffBrewing Co. of Fort Wayne, Indiana announced immediate layoffs at its Fort Wayne brewery, and a com­pany official said the layoffs are the result of the independent truck­ers' strike. Falstaff plant manager Earl Thompson said yesterday 150 workers will be laid off because the loading docks are full. Thompson said few trucks are coming in to pick up shipments. He said the num­
ber of trucks .hauling Falstaff' and other generic-labeled beers has fal­
len off bv half. Most of the drivers are independents who haul for 
distribut~rs in the eastern half of the nation. The Falstaff loading docks will he completely filled with unshipped beer by today. Thompson said. The company has no warehouse space for the beer, and storage could affect the quality of their product, he said. -AP 
With state coffers running dry in Florida. 
some legislators are eying Pac-Man. Donkey Kong and other denizens of the video arcades as potetential revenue sources. Rep. T.K. Wet­herell said Wednesdav that the House Finance and Taxation subcom­mittee he chairs will .look into the possibility of applying the state's t1ve percent sales tax to video arcade games, pinball machines and jukeboxes. It's part of a review of sales tax exemptions that the sub­committee is conducting. No estimates are available on how many video games are operating in Florida, but tax officials believe such a tax would raise several million dollars each year. Ten states already tax video games, including Arizona, which raised nearly S I million from a 4 percent tax on video games in . 198I. -AP 
Gov. Mario Cuomo says he is considering legalizing betting on sports in New York to bring in millions of dollars in revenue for the state. He said in an interview with New York Dai(y News reporters and editors on Wednesday that he was "studying" the possibility ofsports betting. Cuomo said it would take weeks to work out a t1nal proposal and decide whether to seek legislative approval for it. He did not say whether he favored betting on all sports contests or limiting it to certain games. The state already has legalized betting on horse races, and also conducts lotteries. -AP 
Checks stemming from a sI6.7 million settle­
ment of old land claims have been mailed to 4,100 Chippewa In­
dians. The money, mailed this week, comes from a claim the Indians 
made years ago that their land, nearly one-t1fth of Michigan's area, 
was cont1scated in an I8I9 treaty without just compensation. The 
settlement comes to $1.2 5 an acre and means an average check of 
53,248.58 for each adult. Shares for children will be held in trust 
until they reach I8. The money was mailed out this week to 4,100 
Chippewas, including those on the Isabella County, Mich., reserva­
tion. -AP 
Snow diminishing today to tlurries and becoming partly cloudy. High in low to mid 20s. Clear and cold tonight. Lows 5 to I 0 above. Increasing clouds and cold tomorrow. High in mid 20s. 
Friday, February 3, 1983 -page 2 
Sleight of hand 
OK, boys and girls, get ready to tighten those belts just a little more. 
If President Reagan has his way in his 1984 budget 
Vic Sciulli 
proposal sent to Congress Monday, students and their 
Assistant News Editor
parents may be rc::sponsible for an even larger share of their educational costs next year. 
Inside Frid 
The educational proposals are part of a S1~-5 billion budget for elementary, secondary and higher education 

programs for the 19H.1,-1984 t1scal year, beginning Oct. 
1. This t1gure is almost $1 billion less than this year's 1114.-l billion budget. 
One of the more interesting ofthese proposals bone which will allow for the creation of "individual educa­tion accounts." The!>e !EA.'s, similar in concept to already-existing Individual Retirement Account~. would allow families with total yearly incomes under 540,000 to save $1 ,000 in an account earning tax-free interest or dividends. 
The proposal is in keeping with administration goals of having families and stu­
dents contribute a greater Russo believes that the tax share ofeducation costs as a break could provide in­means for proving their centive to think about the eligibilty in federal future. programs. It is not, however, The financial aid picture. as promising as it seemed Russo said, is "less dis­
months ago. couraging" than it was a year 
lIn like the lndividu:tl :tgo when nil ont· w:~s ccr­Retirement Accounts, the taiu when.: .md how much proposed lEA's principal money there would be. Rus­would be taxed, with only so predicts that Congress the interest and dividends will hold the line on future untaxed. There is a savings cutbacks and that the t1nan­to be had, indeed, but not cial aid picture will stabilize, nearly as great as t1rst though at a level lower than seemed. before the Reagan ad­
Skeptics who heard of the mi t nistration. 
proposal months ago feared 
SLEIGHT OF 
that it would serve only to 
soften the blow of heavv 
budget cuts in social progr~ms and other areas. In addi­tion to the lEA proposal, Reagan has asked for decreased spending in these areas as well as tighter eligibility restrictions for Pell Grants and the elimination of federal spending on three of the six major loan 
programs. 
The proposal, even if passed, would probably have 
little effect on those students who do not have the ·money to pay for their education to begin with. In his State of the Union address last week, Reagan said that the proposal "will give middle-and lower-class families an incentive to save for their children's college educa­tion and, at the same time, encourage a real increase in 
savings for economic growth." 
There is money to be saved for those families who have several thousand dollars to set aside for their children's education. but what about those families who do not' One of the results of the economic depres­sion of the past few years b the shift of priorities from 
The Observer 
Design Editor................... Deirdre Murphy /)esigTlAssistantsTom "friday Off' Small 
llavi<I"Plhily" Rohinson Typesetters .. ..................... Reggie and Toni News Editor.. .. ........... Vic Sciulli Copy Editor. .. .................. Tim Neely, Features layout..... ..................... Lucky joe Editorials Layout .................... Tari Brown !>ports Copy Editor .............Mike Riccardi !>ports Layout...... .. ...... Mike again 
ND Dav Editor... ...................... Tim Pettcrs SMCDay Editor ................... B<uce Oakley Typists ....................... .. .. Monica Guglc Tari Brown 
Ad Design......................... T_oo Many Picas! Photographer ...... larry Petra. Guest Appearances....... The Snow-bunny with snow, Hi Ann!, Sully, Needless Chris, Griff and Darby, and an eccentric 
Dolan 

The Observer (USPS 598 9201 IS published Monday through Fr~day and on home football Saturdays except dur~ng exam and vacat1on penods The Observer IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys Col lege Subscnpt1ons rnay be purchased for $25 per year($ t 5 per semester) by wr1t1ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556. 
The Observer 1S a member of The Associated Press All reproduction r~ghts are reserved 
Second class postage paid at Notre Dame Indiana 46556 
Organizational Meeting 

Sunday, February 6 7pm LaFortune Little Theatre 
(f 

future goals to more immediate ones. It is ditiicult to conceive of a struggling family puning aside S1,000 a year to send their son or daughter to school when it could be put to more immediate use by paying bills and debts. The new proposal will not do anything to help the truly needy. And tuition price~ will continue to in· crease. 
And how about the average Notre Dame student'~ family; can our parents afford to set aside this sum ol money?joe Russo, director oft1nancial aid thinks so, but 
only if families plan ahead. 
Reagan will have a dif
Hf\~D 
tkult time in Congress 
trying to pass the proposal. 
The idea of the lEA's is a good one but the revenue lo~;s 
they will create will be too great. It seems highly un­
usual for Reagan to propose this when one considers 
the vow that he has taken to reduce the federal det1cit. 
The proposal is, in essence, nothing more than a token 
offer which Reagan knows has no chance of passing in 
Congress. 
This year's t1nancial aid picture has already been painted and we now await the outcome of our FAF's. The new Congress gives J.IS some hope to the future of t1nancial aid. In the meantime. we can only wait and see and tuck in our stomachs a little bit more. 
Observer note._------, 
The Obseruer is always looking for new people. We need people in layout. production. news. sports, etc. If you would like to get involved, call 2~9-5~03. . 
An Tostal 

All interested students are urged to attend. 
i1·' t I . 
The Observer Friday, February 3, 1983 -page 3 " ~: 
Foreign study 
SMC to launch India program 

By SUSANJ. ANTONINI 
News Staff 
Fourteen professors from various 
colleges and universities in Indiana 
will participate in an "India Celebra­
tion" sponsored by Saint Mary's Col­
lege on February 6 and 7. The 
two-day program will feature sym­
posiums and informal discussions on 
Indian life and culture. 
The India Celebration is designed 
to increase awareness 0fSaint Mary's 
new foreign study program at Stella 
Maris College in Madras, India. 
The visitmg professors will speak to various classes on Monday. Each has prepared a "teaching package" which may include lectures, slides, music, and other educational media. Schedules will be posted in each classroom building with exact times, locations and topics. 
"The professors who are par­ticipating have visited India recently and have acquired fresh knowledge and experience of which students should take advantage." Pullapilly stressed. He added that the "India 
Celebration" will reach all fields of study and that "everyone can gain something from it." 
All events are open to the public at no charge. 
Control andsupervision 
Roemer·stresses lighter drinking 
By CECILIA LUCERO 
StaffReporter 
Dean of Students James Roemer 
believes that responsible drinking 
should be learned at home. 
Although he recognizes the fact 
that underage drinkers at Notre 
Dame violate Indiana state law, 
Roemer also believes that the Uni­
versity cannot ignore that alcohol is 
a part of campus life. Roemer ex­
plains the University's tolerance of 
underage drinking as an attempt to 
lower the risk of alcohol-related 
accidents by providing a place for 
drinking. 
Although "the problem of 
complying with the Indiana state 
law belongs to the student," Roemer 
contends that more control and su­
pervision can be exercised when un­
derage students drink in the 
residence halls than when they 
drink off-campus. Roemer stresses 
that drinking on campus alleviates 
the risks ofdriving while drinking. 
Roemer suggests that students' private rooms and party rooms in the residence halls are analogous to the home. "Where you live, you become responsible in some way." According to Roemer. learning to drink in moderation at home and in the dorms makes the student become a more responsible drinker. 
Increased concern about teenage alcohol abuse has bolstered a cam­paign to set the minimum legal drinking age at 21 years in all states, according to a recent Time. magazine article. The momentum behind the campaign is supplied by recent studies acknowledging the correlation between minimum legal drinking age and alcohol-related traffic accidents. 
The Time article reports that 26 
states in their 1983 legislative ses­
sions will propose to raise the legal 
drinking age back to 21. This 
reverses the trend ofthe early 19-0s 
drinking age. The trend was partlv in 
response to arguments by college 
students. who claimed that since 
they were old enough to go to war. 
they were old enough to drink. 
Recent comprehensive studies of 
alcohol abuse. however. reveal that 
a correlation doe~ exist between the 
minimum legal <}rinking age and traf­
fk accident and fatality rates. 
Dr. Donald Gallant. a psychiatrist 
at the Tulane l'niversity School of 
Medicine, reviewed several studies in the 1982 issue of Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Researcb. In a study conducted by the University of :\Iichigan Highway 
. Safety Institute. Gallant found that fatal accidents among 18-through­20-year-old drinking drivers in­creased by 132 percent over a five-year period after Michigan lowered its drinking age to 18 years. The increase for non-fatal accidents was 21 7 percent. 
Studies in Massachusetts produced similar statistics. Alcohol­related fatality rates for the same age category increased by 178 percent following a change to a legal drink­ing age of 18, according to Gallant. Furthermore, the total driving population accounted for only 5' percent offatal accidents. 
Through the concerted efforts of the citizens group "Coalition for 21 ," Michigan returned its legal drinking age to 2 I in 1978. Gallant's reviews show that Michigan's alcohol-related highway accident rates have decreased by about 30 percent since. 
Time also reports that of 20 states which have raised their legal drink­ing age, a 28 percent reduction in nighttime fatal accidents has resulted in at least eight of them. 
A study by the National Council on Alcoholism provides these addi­tional facts: drunk driving is the leading single cause of death among the I 5-24 year old category; 40-60 percent of fatal crashes involve young drinking drivers; and young drivers are more likely to have been drinking than older drivers when accidents occur. 
The attempts by state legislatures to impose a nationwide minimum legal drinking age of 21 reflect the impact of these recent studies. According to the Time article, states risk surrendering federal highway aid should they keep the drinking age below 21. 
Tom Brown, a counselor at the Mental Health Services in South Bend, says that states would also lose tax revenue as a result of the proposal to raise the drinking age. According to Brown, however. the attitude prevails that "it will be well worth it." 
Brown acknowledges the correla­tion between underage drinking and traffic accidents. He says that al­cohol abuse and related accidents increase when teenagers, who usual­ly obtain their driver's license at that age level, are allowed to drink. A minimum legal drinking age of 21, suggests Brown, reduces the acces­sibility ofalcoholic beverages to that 
age  group  most  impulsive  with  
drinking and driving habits.  
Brown  continued  that  a  con­ 

certed effort to educate young people about the effects of drinking and driving was necessary. Teenagers' responsible drinking habits begin at home, Brown claims. since those who drink more likely have parents who drink. According to Brown. parents need education about alcohol abuse as well. "Like father, like son." 

Saint Mary's new foreign study program, a Semester Around The World, will be inaugurated in the fall of 1983. Students will leave from Chicago and travel through Japan. China, Hong Kong, Thailand and Sin­
gapore  before  arriving  in  India,  
where  they  will  spend  an  entire  
semester  taking  classes.  The  

deadline for applications, obtainable in 336 Madeleva Hall, is February 15. "The program is also a great op­
portunity for the public ·to learn about another culture, which is im­portant for personal maturity and education," said Cyriac K. Pullapilly, history professor at Saint Mary's and director of the India Program. 
The showing of two films, India: An Introduction and The TajMahal, will begin the program at 7 p.m. Sun­day in Carroll Hall. An informal dis­cussion and a review of the current film Gandhi will follow. 
Judge refuses dismissal of contempt case 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A federal judge yesterday rejected the Reagan administration's attempt to sidestep a contempt of Congress case against EPA chief Anne. M. Gorsuch. That sent the Justice Department scurry­ing for compromise in the constitu­tional confrontation. 
l'.S. District Judge John Lewis Smith Jr. said he would not inter­vene, for now, in the historic battle between the executive branch and the House. where Gorsuch was cited for contempt on Dec. 16. 
That was bad news for the ad­ministration, which had petitioned the court to throw out the case so the Justice Department would not be obliged to present the House charge to a grand jury for indict­ment. But Smith dismissed that ap­peal. 
The House voted 259 to I 05 to cite the Environmental Protection Agency administrator for contempt after she refused to give sensitive law enforcement documents on haz· ardous waste dumps to a House sub­committee. Just after the vote, the Justice Department filed its first suit ever against the Congress. naming the House. Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill. committee chairmen and the chamber's officers as defendants. 
February 4 
Autumn Sonata (197Bt 
Congress two days after oral argu­ment on the House's motion to dis­miss the lawsuit. 
"When constitutional disputes arise concerning the respective powers of the legislative and ex­ecutive branches: judicial interven­tion should be delayed until all possibilities for settlement have been exhausted." Smith wrote. 
Gorsuch is the highest executive­branch official to ever be cited for contempt of Congress. Normally, the U.S. attorney in Washington, cur­rently Stanley S. Harris, would be obligated to present the case to a federal grand jury. 
Harris has refrained from doing so pending the outcome of the Justice Department suit, which Smith dis­missed. 
). Paul McGrath, assistant attorney general in charge of the Justice Department's civil division. said af­ter the ruling the administration would take the judge's advice and at­tempt again to seek a compromise With the House. 
Asked whether he would ask the court to compel Harris to act, Stan­ley Brand, the chief lawyer for the House. said such a decision was premature. 

lngmar Bergman. Sweden. color. 92 m.n Swed1sh w1th Eng11sh sub-lilies · ThiS exploratiOn• of longmg and gu11t 1llummates the I rat! yet 1ndestruct1· ble bonds !hal f. "51 between mother and daughter lngr~d Bergman and L1v Ullmann g1v£ electnc performances 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum AdSissiori ~ lr~u ~J_1l31ti lf-----2·00 

The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. Holi 
Attention Grad Students and Faculty 
................................ 
Voting on the unilateral Nuclear Freeze referendum and the Cambell Boycott referendum will take place on Tuesday, February 8, 11:00 AM · 4:00 PM in LaFortune 
l' Student Center, Main Lobby. You must have NO 1.0. to vote. 
**Off-campus undergrads also vote in LaFortune, 11:00 AM· 4:00PM 
The Observer 
Friday, February 3, 1983 -page 4 
Problems remain 
U.S., China reps conclude talks 


MARCH 11 -20, 1983 
.ArnutplfWtt.IJ by 
ECHO TRAVEL, INC. MCH2571F SIX PER ROOM 
$185 
FOUR PER ROOM 
$199 
PEKING ( AP) -Secretary ofState George P. Shultz said yesterday that friction in U.S.-Chinese relations should not obscure "how far we have come in so briefa time." 
But Chinese Foreign Minister Wu Xueqian said "obstacles" still exist, harmful to cooperation between Peking and Washington. 
The two diplomats concluded talks that left the outstanding problems unchanged: differences over arms sales to Taiwan, transfer of 
U.S. high technology to China and setting new quotas for imported · Chinese textiles. 
While Shultz said he does not dis­IT!iss the imp?~!anc_e._, of these fric­
tions and differences in approach, he chooses to emphasize the positive elements in the situation facing the two countries, which established diplomatic relations four years ago after three decades ofhostility. 
"My presence here in Peking today is a good indication that both sides recognize the potential benefit of good relations," Shultz told a group of American corporation ex­ecutives. 
"I am very pleased with the man­ner in which our talks with the Chinese arc proceeding this week," he said. "They are serious, con­structive and wide ranging." 
Wu and Shultz met for eight hours over two days. Their talks were the longest and most extensive Shultz will have with Chinese leaders in Peking, but he also meets today and Saturday with Premier Zhao Ziyang, 
Ddense Minister Zhang Aiping, Finance Minister Wang Bingqian and Dcng Xiaoping, China's most aut­horitative leader. 
In addition, Shultz has agreed to meet with Prince Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia, leader of a 
coalition ofCambodian political fac­tions resisting the occupation of the country by Vietnam. 
Refugees from Nigeria 
Food shortages plague Ghanians 
ACCRA, Ghana (AP)-Deportees from Nigeria yesterday poured into transit camps already jammed with exhausted Ghanaians suffering from food shortages, illness and the rigors oftheir long trip home. 
The sudden flood of returning Ghanaians raised government con­cerns that violence will add to the misery of the estimated half-million that have reached the camps. 
Commodore S.G. Obimbeh, coor­dinator ofthe repatriation task force, 
Susan Lang delivered her Senior Recital on trombone last el'e­
said authorities would not tolerate
ning in Annenberg Auditorium. (Photo by Larry' Petras) 
"acts of violence or unruly be­havior."
r-----------------------------1 
Obimbeh said he saw a group of 
·w~~
~f .

t 
Sugat-n-Sp1ce 
cloocnavetinoines~andy Shoppe
Downtown South Bend 
3 
(next to Robertson's dept. store) 
Scottsdale Mall Michiana Airport 
*Get your sweetheart Valentine canqy here 
*The largest variety of candy and nuts in the midwest 
~~ 
I 
1 
~~~ 
~f  ~~  
~  
I  
1  

newly arrived deportees set fire to a man in Accra for allegedly attempt­ing to steal a cassette recorder. 
The Ghanaians went to oil-rich Nigeria in the mid-1970s to get work and make some money. On Jan. 17 Nigeria, hit by the drop in oil prices, ordered the expulsion of an es­timated 2 million illegal aliens, half of them said to be Ghanaians. 
The Ghanaian government has not given official figures on the num­ber now back home. But Interior Minister Johnny Hansen told repor­ters in the Nigerian capital of Lagos on Wednesday that "about halfa mil­lion" of the expelled I million 
Present this coupon for a 10% discount off anything in our stores -for all I Ghanaians had returned. students and personnel of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Call in orders 1 
He described the mass return as a
available: phone 234-2608 1 
"national crisis." Pope John Paul II called for an ur­
L----------------------------~ 
gent and adequate solution to the NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 
expulsions, Vatican Radio reported. The broadcast said the Nigerian decision created a "grave, incredible 
PRESENTS 
SPRINGBREAKINDAYTONABEACH 
drama" and that the pontiff has in­structed Roman Catholic relief or­ganizations to extend immediate humanitarian aid to the deportees. 

In London, Nigeria's high commis­sioner, or ambassador, defended his country's decision to expel the aliens, saying the scale of the expul­sions was far smaller than similar events in European history. He did not specify which events he meant. 
Many of the deportees crossed Benin and Togo on foot to reach Ghana. Deportees were being ferried by truck to their home villages from the Agotimc-Kpctoe transit camp on the border with Togo. 
Most of the expelled were gathered around Accra, at a fairground and a sports stadium at nearby Tema. 
The deportees had been unable to begin their trek back until Ghana reopened its border with Togo, 
which had been closed to prevent smuggling. Many were caught in crowded camps in Benin and Togo -countries between Nigeria and Ghana -without adequate food or water. 
Togolese officials reported at least 20 people died while crossing their territory. 
Official Accra Radio said condi­tions at Aflao on the border with Togo showed a "considerable im­
"provemcnt" yesterday. Donated medicine, rice, sugar, milk and soap had arrived and were being distributed by an evacuation ­task force, the radio said. Canadian and German Red Cross workers helped distribute food and medical supplies in the Accra transit camps. 
Daley gains support ofChicago Sun-Times 
CHICAGO ( AP) -Richard M. Daley, battling incumbent Jane Byrne and a black congressman for the mayoral job long held by his father, has picked up support from the second of Chicago's two major newspapers. 
"They're quite a one-two blast," Daley press secretary Bob Benjamin said yest1:rday of the endorsements. "It's a tremendous boost not only to the candidate's frame of mind but to his volunteer workers." 
Daley, the 40-ycar-old state's at­torney for Chicago's Cook County, is 
TRIP INCLUDES 
• Round tnp motor coach tran5portation va3. modern hijJhway coaches to Daytona Beach, Aonda leaVUlJ Fn~y. Mar<:h II. 
montgomery® 
• Scvl!n n•ahts ;u:commod8110n5 at the exciting Plaza Hotel or Daytona Beach. Located at 600North Atlantic Avc.,11 iJ the 
will conduct 
most demanded hotel on the strip at that time. 
tnterviews
• A truly great ~hcdulc of activiti" includinJ our famoUJ 
pool deck panu:a aod beUy nop contest. 
on this campus
• Optional excunions available to Disney World, Epcot, and ~evcral other a11ract10ns 
TUESDAY, FEB. 22 & 
• Numerous bar and restau111nt discounts. 
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 23.
• The serv1cc5 of !ullt1me travel representatives. 
Career
• 
All tues and &ratuiues. 

• 
Guaranteed kitchenette 01' oceanfront auilable at small 


positions in 
addtlional chara:c. (4 per room only) 
vertical 
A QUALITYTRIP-ALOWPRICE-A GREATTIME 
transportation 
The Pla1.1. H01el. loca1ea riah1m I he middle of 1he scnp. 1s definuely the place 10 be dunna spnng break. Ask anyone who has been 10 Day1ona The hole] has a pool. b11 party deck, 
MARKETING/ 
rr:s1aurant. four bars. color TV. au condmonr:d rooms and plenty ofac11vities PICI.uru are ...aJiable when you S!Jft up Our mo1or coachr:5 are noth1n1 bul the h•ahr:sl quahly haahway 
MANAGEMENT 
coaches. We also a•vc you more u1ras WJ!h our 111p than anyone else. Don'! blow it and JO on 
will be discussed 
a lower quality tnp LAST YEAR OJIE.R 8,0H PEOPLE ENJOYED THIS TRI,, 
with degree candidates in 
SIGN UP NOW AT THE 
BUSINESS 
· TICKET OFFICE/RECORD STORE 
ADMINISTRATION.
MON.-FRI. 10 AM-4 PM 
For more
OR CALL 139-5213 
information 
about 
Montgomery 
and our future 
vtsit to your 
campus. 
contact your 
placement 
office. 
montgomery~) 
ELEVATORS ESCALATORS POWER WALKS & RAMPS 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
Montgomery Elevator Company. Moline. lllino1s 61265 Montgomery Elevator Co.. Limited. Toronto. Ont'irio M9B3S5 Offices 1n pnnc1pal CitieS of North Amenca 
. 
I 
I 
t L_ 
struggling in third place in some polls. He is opposed in the Feb. 22 Democratic primary by Byrne, her­self a protege of the late Mayor Richard). Daley, and by Rep. Harold Washington, who if elected would be Chicago's first black mayor. 
In its Jan. 23 endorsement, the Chicago Tribune said, "When death finally took the mayor's office away from one Richard Daley in 1976 af­ter 21 years, it was impossible to im­agine a set of circumstances under which the newspaper would recom­mend that the people give it back to a second Richard Daley. Unfor­tunately, such circumstances are upon us." 
The circumstance the Tribune referred to is Byrne's management of the city, a reign the newspaper calls "Chaosfcst," a sarcastic reference to the mayor's fondness for food and music festivals. 
When the Chicago Sun-Times en­dorsed Daley on Wednesday, it gave equal billing to the mayor and what it considered were her shortcom­ings. 
With the Byrne administration, the newspaper said, "it became ap­parent that government by clout and cronyism was not dead at all, but resurrected in a new and more virulent form." 
• • • Israel 
continuedfrom page I 
stood on the road." Rafi drove around him and the officer "ran after me with his pistol drawn ...The whole matter of the pistol rather amused me, althou·gh I understand that he Oohnson) was very 
impressed by this pistol." 
The Observer 
Contempt of court 
Tantrums disrupt bigamy trial 
PIIOEl\'IX. Ariz. ( AP)-Adefense Steiner used a ,-ulgar epithet to said. denying a deknse motion tor attorney was cited l(>r contempt of describe prosecutor David Stoller. a mistrial over the incident. court and the defendant was told he deputy county attorney whose ques­:\1oments earlier, Coulter had ad­had had his last warning as temper tions repeatedh· were drawing monished Vigliotto, whose anger tantrums dbrupted cross examina­sparb from \'igli~>tto. and tears had led to several recesses tion yesterday in Giovanni Vigliot­Coulter barred future exchanges and at least one cautionary session in 
to's bigamy and fraud triaL between the lawyers without his the judge's chambers Wednesday. 
The charges stem from \'igliotto's express permission. but he did not Pressed by Stoller about use ofthe Nov. 16. 19H I. marriage to a :'vtesa penalize Steiner over the contempt name Frederick Bertram Jipp which woman who charged he vanished citation. Vigliotto has said was supplied by two weeks later with more than Stoller drew a warning from the the Central Intelligence Agency 
S~6,600 in cash and property judge a bit later when. turning to a while he was working for the CIA 
belonging to her. Vigliotto has res­woman in the gallery and asking her under contract. \'igliotto began in­titled he has married IOS women to stand, he asked Vigliotto whether terrupting and Coulter ordered a since 19-t9, several of them twice he knew an Ann Gibbons. The halt. 
and one three times, and four of woman began to speak, getting out "Sir. this is your second warning," them during one ocean cruise. the name "Jipp" before Coulter cut Coulter said. "There will be no third 
Yesterday. Judge Rufus Coulter her off time. There will be no more disrup­declared Deputy Public Defender "I would admonish vou. Mr. Stol­tions from the witness stand. You Richard Steiner in contempt after ler. not to pull that ag;in," Coulter will listen to the attorney and try to 
answer his 4 uestions to the best of your ability. . .. You will not make side comments."
Republicans in Senate 
Vigliotto attempted to ask Coul­ter's permission to reply but the judge interrupted him. saying, "You 
will,not argue with me out there either."
offer alternate budget 
WASIIINGTON ( AP) -The first budget assaults from Democrats. 
At issue was a birth certificate
comprehensive alternative to Presi­Democratic leaders of the House 
saying Frederick Bertram Jipp was
dent Reagan's three-day-old budget and Senate, often at odds last year. 
horn April~-I936. in New York Citv
surfaced in Congress yesterday. a vowed to work together on 
to Silvia Saskin andjohnJipp. The
Republican plan that would trim the "emergency legislation" costing so; 
prosecution contended it
defense buildup. boost energy taxes billion to S I 0 billion and providig 
repr'esented Vigliotto's real name
and spread this year's I 0 percent t{)()d, shelter and jobs to victims of 
and that Vigliotto once had told ont'
income tax cut over two years. the recession. 
of his wives that his father was John
Leaders of both parties, Rep. Thomas Foley of Washing­
Jipp of Menlo Park, Calif
meanwhile. set out to develop jobs ton. the House Democratic whip, programs. something Rea/ gan has said the measurt' would be ready tor so far resisted. House action sometime next month. 
Republican Sen. Slade Gorton of 
At National Prayer breakfast 
Washington proposed a revised On the Republican side, GOP spending plan that would include a leader Robert H. :\tichel of Illinois SH billion cut in Reagan's S30 bil­appointed a task force to prepare a 
Reagan urges retu_rn to Bible 
lion boost for the Pentagon. program within :30 days. The 1 0­Presidential aides, meanwhile, at­member task force will be headed by WASHINGTON (AP)-President "America laces great challenges," ever known," Reagan said. Reagan told the breakfast "But
tempted to fend otf even heavier Rep. John Erlenborn of lllinois, the Rt"agan urged the nation yesterday Reagan also signed a proclamation top GOP member of the House to read the Bible, because "inside its we'vt' laced great problems before marking 19H~ as the Year of the Education and Labor Committee. pages lie all the answers to all the and we've conqut'red them. What Bible and agreed to serve as the cam­Michel said he did not want to 
problems man has ever known." carries us through was our willing­paign's honorary chairman. "When we think how many ness to seek power and protection The prayer breakfast, an annual
"dredge up a revised public service jobs program," but tlnd "something peopk in the world are imprisoned from One much greater than our­custom for ~I years, brings together
Poland 
new and fresh." for trying to read or possess a Bible, selves -to turn back to Him and to members ofCongress, their spouses, Senate Republican Leader we should take more advantage of trust in His mercy. Without His help. ambassadors, other Washington Howard Baker of Tennessee con­what we can do so easily," the presi­America will not go forward." ligures and hundreds ofpeople from
suspends UPI 
tlrmed discussions with the White dent said in remarks to the annual "Can we· resolve to read. learn, around the United States. The main House on a possible GOP jobs bilL "I address at yesterday's gathering was
National Prayer Breakfast and try to ht'ed. the greatest message
credentials 
think there is some motion," he said, He spokt' at the Washington Hil­ever written -God's word in the delivered by Gen.John W. Vessey Jr., rekrring to talks among Republican ton Hotel, the hotel whert' he was Holy Bible? Inside its pages lie all the the chairman of the joint Chiefs ofWARSAW, Poland (AP) -The 
senators as well as with administra­shot in an assassination attempt answers to all the probkms man has Staff: 



Communist government suspended 
tion officials. March :30, I98L
United Press International's news 
operations in Poland yesterday until 
the oftlcial PAP news agency is 
allowed to reopen its office in the 
l!nited States. 
The action signaled further 
deterioration in Polbh-American 
relations. whid1 have been cool 
since the Reagan adminiMration 
imposed trade sanctions against 
Poland aftn tht· declaration of mar­
tial law in December I'->HI. 
The suspension t<>llowed the ex­pulsion "I l PI's chief correspondent. Ruth E (,ruht·r. last month. and rt"taliatory .tction by the l -~--go\ tTnntt·nt. which onkn:d PAP\ onh .\merican-hased cor­respondent out of the country. 
l PI's second corrt'spondent. 
Polish citizen Bogdan Turek. con­
tmued tiling dispatches following 
(;ruher's departure Jan. I';_ 
Turek said he was summont'd to 
the Foreign \linistry and told that 
:tdwaifonhis accreditation had been suspended. lit• will be allowed to keep the UP/ oftke open to handlt' administrative chores. but is barred 
fwith special guest 
from reporting, the Foreign Ministry said. A spokesman for the U.S. Embassy 
RED RIDER 
in Warsaw said the mission "had expressed in no uncertain terms its displeasure with the arbitrary ac­tion." 
Saturday, Feb. 19 8 PM 
The ofi"icial reasons for expelling Gruber were extremely ambiguous. Notre Dame A.C. C. The Polish government said she was implicated in an "espionage" case, All seats reserved: $11.50 &$10.50 
Tickets now available at A.C.C. Box office only. Tickets on
but also described her reporting 
sale Tuesday at A. C. C. Box Office, Sears (University Park Mall, Orchard 
from Poland as "venemous" and 
mall, Pierre Moran Mall. & the Catalogue Store), Robertson's (Southcalled her expulsion a "warning" to Bend & Concord Mall), St. Joe Bank (main branch), The Elkhart Truth other correspondents who quote J.R.'s (La Port). and World Records (Goshen). 
supporters of the outlawed Solidarity labor movement. Gruber denied the allq~ations. 
Advancement 
College seniors. Ifyou plan to get a job
WITHOUT 
after graduation. why not consider
AN 
a profession? 
ADVANCED 
• In 3 months, we prepareyou for
DEGREE 
careers in law, management, finance. 
• Our 8 intensive courses are , nationally recognized for high aca­
The Institute for ParalegalTraining 
235 S. 17th SL Philadelphia, PA 19103 (215) 732-6600 
Approved by the Amertcan Bar Assoclatton 
~rated by Para-Legal Inc .. a P,nnsytvanla Corpora lion 
demic quality. 
• 
OYer 90% of our graduates secure jobs in their specialties. Over 5.000 graduates hold positions in law firms. banks and corporations in 110 cities. 

• 
We provide a substantial tuition refund if we cannot secure a job for you in the city of your choice. 


Guarantee your future. Learn how the Institute can help you advance in a career. Our representative will be on campus February 25, 1983. 
ASM 
o I would like to armnge an inter­view at another time. Please call me at one ofthe phones noted. 
D Please send me information about the Institutefor Paralegal Training. 
Name ------------------------­Address -----------­City, State, Zip 
College -----------­Graduation Pate-------­
( _ _L____~___L________ 
Present phone Permanent phone 
~ 
. 
' 
EditorialS 
Friday, February 3, 1983 -page 6 
It's that time of year again 
Feb. 8 is the date of the Student Body Elec­tions. Each year the names change, but the platforms and their ensuing results (or lack thereof) remain the same. As an editorial writer it is my job to look critically at the event so as to point out both the pros and the 
RandyFahs 
electing student government leaders, not cruise directors for the Love Boat. It is sad to admit, but it shows a realization on the part of the candidates that the areas in which they can make the greatest difference are those which have to do with social events. This is a tragic testamonial as to how ineffective stu­dent government is at Notre Dame. 
So why run for a student office? A cynical viewpoint is that it looks great when you app­
Friday Analysis ly for a job. I don't believe that our prospective student leaders are so cutthroat that their major reason for becoming a can­didate is to pad their resumes. All of thecons. However, I must admit that it is diftkult people who are in contention for the top twofor me to present a favorable account of the spots are presently hall presidents; they ap­elections for the following reasons: pear to be experienced and dedicated. EvenI )The Univetsity makes the ~tudent leaders though I disagree with some oftheir ideas andtake a back seat in all important decisions. In question whether or not the scope of whatother words, the SBP and SBVP have little, if they hope to accomplish might be too great, I any, real power. feel confident in stating that none of the tick­2 )After the elections. the support of their ets is bad or would make a complete failure.leaders on the part of the student body is reduced to a mere trickle. The students fail to The problem is that none of them will be a realize that their only real power lies in their smashing success either. The ideas and numbers. If we remain disunited, disor­programs of the Student Body President and ganized, and unsupportive of our student Vice President will never achieve anything leaders, then we throw away our only trump more than limited success (if they are lucky card. enough to do that well). In essence, what I am The first thing which comes to mind when saying is that it would not matter if we had one reads the platforms of the three SBP-SBVP great leaders or mediocre leaders, because we tickets is the prevalence of proposals having would never know the difference. This is not to do with social events. I thought we were meant to be derogatory to the student leaders  "A GREATER TAX"  
P.O. BoxQ  
graduated from predominately black entire quarter. I was not attending a "refuge and Stanford combined. And a large percent­Howard University. In addition to this, my from the hatred of countless bigots." I was age of young black pre-meds still chooseBlack colleges father just happen~ to be the Dean of attending an institution that was dedicated Mehan-y \1edical College and Howard Uni­Dear Editor: Graduate Studies at Alabama State Univer­to quality teaching and great accomplisn­versity tor their post-graduate studies. As for I ·1m writing this letter in response to the sity. Dr. Nathaniel Bogg~ Jr. has also served ment~. I had four instructors: two white, two the article. "Black public colleges: separate Editorial entitled "Black public colleges: in the capacity of Dean at such "black" in· black. One was even a graduate of Notre but equal?"-to err is human. separate but equal?" by Paul \1cGinn. In the stitutions a~ Virginia State University and Dame. I was challenged in all ofmy courses. I Lynette ,'1-f. Boggs article appearing in The Ohserz•er (Jan. 2H, Florida A & M l 'nivcr~ity. began to regain an awareness and a con­l9H3 ). Paul McGinn claims that "the exist­Yes. this M>eicty is white. And yes, the fidence which had slowly been drained out ence of such overwhelmingly black univer· black American must learn the t;tctics of the of me during my Frc~hman year at Notre Logan drive sities as Southern. Prairie View, and Alabama white man's game plan. :\tc{;inn claims that Dame. By Augu~t. I was assured that in one  
State is a mockery of social and educational "what has arisen is an uttnly dismal failure summer I had gained valuable tools that DearEditor: progress." This is a narrow, unilateral view. to give black students the means with which would help me function in the white society: Northern Indiana State Hospital and How do I know? Not only have I attended a to effectively live in a predominately white pride in myself. pride in my people. ambi­Development Disabilities Center ( NISH and predominately black university for summer society." Obviously biased. La~t summer I at­tion, a~nd knowledge. I honestly felt that DDC) is a small residential facility l(>r men­school, both of my very successful parents tended Alabama State l'niversity l(>r an Alabama State had given me a gift. l wa~ tally retarded children. many of whom are ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ready to ··c~ctivcly live in a prcdon1inately also physically handicapped. Located across white society" -I was ready to return to the street from the Notre Dame campus,1-;;nKt.R£ ON<:£ WA5.8_ ~ THE. ~N16 tiTS OF NoD Wf~ Notre Dame. NISH uses many students as volumeers inW K/NGOOM C~UED NOD w_ml C:f TWO KIND: TH~ LUl(lf McGinn exalt~ that "many black recreation and therapy programs with the10,000 CITIZENS ANO KNIGHTS AND THE fCot«J KHI6HT5. THE ECON<l'IY KNIGHTS educators have refused to even compromise residents. We now wish to appeal to all ofLARGE 5~5 Of GOLD. WON ffffi'IY BIJnLf51)3!1T T/tft their so-called principles." Evidently, them for additional support.N~VER ~O(J6Hl l'J/CI\ IINY McGinn ha~ not been exposed to too many We are sponsoring an aluminum can and~TY WHICH WIIS o. K. educated blacks or educators. This summer,f,[Cf/11Jt rHE l'JUTL£5 PI D newspaper drive to raise funds to purchase a  
NOT CO:JT MUCH. during one of our many father/daughter van with adaption for the wheelchair talks, I asked my father why he had turned children. We need to enlist the cooperation down job offers to serve as Dean at such of all ND-SMC students to assbt with our prestigious schools as Yale. MIT, and Brown. drive. Each hall is asked to set up a central llis answer was simple a~ he looked at me area where empty aluminum cans can be6ur ALL filE KINGruM and replied, "I'm needed more here." lie feltlij£ LU~UKY KNlC.HT5 FO(J&Hf deposited. Someone from the hall couldWV£D Tl!f.SE KNb6Hf5 mffT fO« Tltf KHIG-H~ and still feels obligated to personally seeing!Hf. Gtrflll WRitS fllR tiOD, B£Cfill:£ 1J1£Y f3,,()([&HT bring them to NISH during weekly businessWIKJ FOl/GtiT IN IC£lf1ND. ~HICH COOT THE Klf'K,!AJM !)flCK HORK~ OF f«11Y. .. that young hlacb arc givt'n every po~sibility hours or on Saturday morning. 
t1UCH 'OLD.., and opportunity to "make it." Is that ~uch a The Volunteer Department at NISH is bad principle? sponsoring a contest t<>r this drive. The The~e in~titutions aren't segregated. dorm that brings in the most cans over the There · were white studt·nts attending course ofthe semester will recei\~e a free keg Alabama State. l 'nlikc what :\kGinn would on Green field for the tlrst home football lead you to hdicvc. there is ctkctive in· game next fall. tcgration. But how many white studenb If you have any further questions. please would list a predominately black school as call Ken llcndricb at 252--!9S I or the their nr~t choice? And how many white Volunteer Oftlce at C\ilS!-1 at 25-!-210 1, ext. 1HI5 GROUP Cf hNIGitT::> CCOT parenb would send Junior oiJto Tu~kegn·' l-!9. We encourage everyone to get in­1H£ KlrtGOOM of NCO RealT I hope I've ~hared some "real" facb with volved' The children of NISH will reallyZSO,O{)O f'lfC£5 OF (iYD i you. Black institution~ are "preserving the hencllt from this van campaign.Tl/fr woN HltLF rttlEF\ spirit of black t·ducation." And that educa­Please note that we are abo collecting{'JRTTLES; THfY N[Vff\ Bt\Ct/G/lr tion is gO<,d and sound. dedicated and newspapers. Pam Horner (Lewis Hall -ANY Etl)fY...  
thorough~ I know If it weren't, how is it that ~260) ofthe ND Environmental Club will be Southern Lnivcrsity graduates more black coordinating the paper drive. engineers than MIT' Atlanta l :niversity Ann Lagomarcino graduates more black MBA's than Harvard Director oJCommunit)• Serz•iC!!_s  

IheJJ~rver============ 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
! 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily rellect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression C?fvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239-5303 
who are, for the most part, dedicated and hard-working. Rather it is a direct slam against the autocracy of the Administration and the apathy of the Student Body. 
It is unfortunate that opinions like mine lend an air ofillegitimacy to student elections. At present, though, they are little more than a formality to see who will get the blame for what doesn't get done. l encourage everyone 
Editorial Board 
Etlitor·in·Chief.......... .. ............ Michael Monk Managing Etlitor ................ Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor .......... ... David Dziedzic SMC Executil'e Editor............ Margaret ro~moe 
Sports Editor.............  .. ....... Chrb Needle~  
Editorials Editor  ....... ~  Paul Mc<.inn  
Features Editor.........  Jo~eph .\lusumeo  

Photo Editor ................... ~ ....... ~ ....... Rachel Blount 
to vote, but more than that, I appeal to the student body to get behind whatever ticket is elected. We are all very busy and it is easy to let support ofkey issues and our leaders fall to the bottom of our priorities list. But, if we want to do more than complain, then we will have to use the strength in our numbers. Until then, we will be voting to see who gets to put Notre Dame's sweetest plum in their resume. 
Department Managers 
Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz Advertisz'ng .11anager ....................... Chris Owen Production Manager ..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager... ... Mark Miotto S1•stems .Hanager .......... ~. ~ ..... Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3, I96h 
i I 
I 
, I I I
I 
l 
I 
j ' 
11 
i I 
j : 
I1 
f-) . 
' 
l 1 ·t 
;t ' 
t 
l_ 
Editorials Friday, February 3, 1983 -page 7 
~------------------------------------------------------~ 
P.O. Box Q 
The February 8 Referendums: Campbell boycott and unilateral freeze 
University policy 
Editor's note: tbe fullozl'ing is an exerpt 
from tbe opening speecb deliz·ered br]ames 
HcDonne/1 to tbose attending Velasquez's 
presentation oftbe FlOC lm\'cott onjmt. 31 
in the Jfemorial library Auditorium: 
<)n hehalfof the l.niversitv of:-.:otre Dame 
and the Oftlce of Student Affairs. I welcome 
vou to this evening program. 
Three \Tars ago, students of the l'niver­sitv of :"oootre Dame voted to hovcott the products of the Camphell Soup Companv and the products of its 'uhsidiaries in sup­port of FLOC. the Farm Lahor Organizing Committee. over the issues related to the migrant farm worker situation in Ohio. Since that time. the l'niversitv of :"oootre Dame has stopped purchasing such products in all areas related to Student Life -dining halls. Huddle. Deli. campus vending. Other areas ofcampus, such as Corby Hall, Moreau Semi­;:J!;'. artd h:lll fcGd sales, have also agreed to 
the boycott. 
Originalh·. this boycott issue was to ha\·~ 
been decided last vear_ However, because of 
the decision to re-vote the :"ooestle issue last 
Fehruarv. the Student Affairs Committee 
postponed the Campheii-FLOC issue until 
this vear. Roth sides were notified one vear 
ago that a vote would like!\-occur. 
In "'ovemher of 1982. hoth sides were re­
quested to suhmit updated reports to the 
Student Aft;l;rs Committee. In those reports, 
FLOC asked for a continuation of the 
hoycott. Since approximately 3/4 ofour stu­
dent body was not here for the vote three 
years ago, the Student Affairs Committee felt 
it was time for the issue to be re-voted in 
order to determine whether the students of 
the l'niversity of:"Jotre Dame wished to con­
tinue or end its bovcott. 
The Committee decided on the exact same format that was used one year ago for the :"Jestle issue -a puhlic dehate. Invita­tions extended to hoth sides were verbally accepted. A question of time did arise_ Campbell's expressed a preference for \1arch 1 as the voting date instead of Feb. 8. However, Scott Rombach. Director ofPublic Relations for Campbell's, indicated to me that if the Committee wanted the vote ear,­lier. Camphells would cooperate and par­ticipate. 
When I called \1r. Rombach on ,\1onday, Jan_ 24 to cont1rm the debate on Jan. 51. he indicated that time might be a problem. but that he would tn· to get someone to attend. He also indicated that Campbell's directors did not want to he on the same platform as \tr. Velasquez or appear in a public forum_ On Thursdav. Jan. 2-. I ~vas notified that Camphells h-ad-made a decision not to pa[ ticipate in the debate. hut instead to rely on newspaper columns. fact sheets, and the dis­tribution of literature. 
Fridav. Jan. 2R I made one last attempt to sah·age the debate_ I even offered to postpone the dehate and vote until March or April and asked \tr. Rombach it Campbell's would show up then. He indicated that he felt their decision would he the same as their decision not to come \1onday evening. 
I have taken great length to explain the above scenario. not to put down Campbell's, but to demonstrate that the l'niversity tried to he fair to hoth sides. As an educational institution. we· seek truth. \X'e want to provide opportunities for our communit\· to learn and to understand issues_ We wanted both sides to he present at the dehate -to advocate their positions. to rebut the argu­ments of the opposing side. to present in­''•rmation and fan~. to enlighten the 
eommunitv. and to answer am-and all ques­tion~ from the audience. 
No control 
Dear Editor: 
The overriding factor in the FLOC boycott is thi~: Camphell 'ioup Companv has heen singkd out as culpable in a social ~cenerio over which it l1:1s no direct control ­
• \1igrant farm workers ( primarilv from Florida and Texas l cannot find adequate emplovment in the1r own areas of re~idence. 
so thev come to Ohio and elsewhere in the ,\1 idwest to perform seasonal agricultural labor. 
• 
In past years. some ot these workers were hired by independent tomato growe~s in Ohio to harvest the tomato crops. 

• 
Economic realities -mainly the ~tift. competition from California'a highly­mechanized tomato industn· -have led most of Ohio's tomato growers to rely on machines to do the harve~ting work previouslv done by hand. 


\X'ell-meaning consumers \Vho have been exposed to material distributed bv the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC) sometime write to us demanding that "Campbell should treat its migrants fair­ly." ... "Campbell should stop exploiting migrant children," . . . and "Campbell should negotiate with FLOC" 
Franklv. am·one making such demands 
hetravs a lack ofacquaintance with the facts. 
It is a fact that there is no such thing as a "Campbell migrant." Campbell Soup Com­panv has not in the past and does not now 
ernpiv~· migrdnt farm ~·f~!!5ers_ 
Campbell coil~i:!Cts witn indeptod<:ni tomato growers in Ohio who sell their crops to our company at harvest time. In the past, some of these farmers hired migrant workers to perform the harvest. Campbell'~ contracts with these farmers have stipulated that any housing furnished for the migrant workers must he maintained in conformitY with applicable laws and regulations. that the child labor provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act mu~t not he violated. etc 
In recent vears. however. Ohio's tomato industn· has shifted to a mechanized harvest. In I9SO, for instance, more than 60 percent of the state's tomato crop was harvested by machine. The trend is expected to continue in 1981 and bevond. 
With these facts as hackground, it may he helpful f t or students at Notre Dame to con­sitler the hovcott issue from this perspective: 
I 
)Camphell's alleged mistreatment ofany workers can be specifically refuted by our company's record in the marketplace. But since Campbell has not employed migrants, does not now employ migrants, and does not intend to employ them in the future. the cur­rent question is moot. 

2 
) The independent Ohio farmers con­tracted to grow tomatoes for Campbell are committed to the statewide trend toward machine harvesting. They do not intend to hire migrant workers to harvest their tomato crops. Last year. for example. these farmers employed only a handful of migrant workers to drive trucks. None of their children per­formed work in connection with the har­vest. Alleged poor housing, child exploitation. and other such charges are therefore moot questions. 

5) 
The demand that Campbell Soup Com­pany negotiate with FLOC is irrelevant. Campbell has no employees who are represented bv FLOC. Campbell has no lahor agreement with FLOC Camphell has no lahor dispute with FLOC. The same can be said of the independent Ohio farmers who contract to grow tomatoes for our com­pany. Thev have no reason to deal with an organization having no connection with their business. Again, the question is moot. 


There is an additional factor that has fur­ther dissolved the credihility ofthis spurious hovcott: As part of our company's on-going social involvement program. last spring we explored ways that Camphell might assist with programs de~igned to help migrant farm ~vorker~. Tht~ was not an acknowledge­ment of anv culpahilitv. It was merely an at­tempt to identifv genuine need,_ (Without fanfare. Campbell ha~ for manv \Tars a~sisted a wtde range of farnih· sen·ice groups. hospi­tals. ,·outh organizations. day-care centers. minoritv by!'olnesses. and other enterprises that enable people to help themselves.) What was FLOC' response to this' FLOC leaders called a news conference. They at­lat-hed sinister motives to Campbell's gathering of intimnation on migrant programs. Then thev threatened to "take ac­tion" again~t anv organization that dealt with Camphell. 
lias the bon:ott called b\· FLOC been ef­fective' :"ooo. Sales of our products continue to he strong. And participation in our 
"Labels for Education" program (which 
FLOC has attempted to u.se as a -boycott 
vehicle) actualh-increased lw nearly 2-per­
cent during 19S2. 
Hut the real i~sue is not the hoycotfs inef­
ti:ctiveness. The issue is the boycott's lack of 
fairness. 
We at Campbell Soup Company 
wholeheartedly endorse the l'niversity of 
Notre Dame·~ commitment to justice. \1('e 
feel it is unjust for consumers to be asked to 
support a hoycott that is based on erroneous 
int(Jrmation and innuendo. We feel it is un­
just for a compam-·s products to he 
boycotted on the hasis of moot issues. 
Scott RomhaciJ Director, Public Relations Camphe/1 Soup ComfJlllll' 
Campbell view 
fJear Editor: 
Tri vote intelligently on the FLOC referen­
dum, students must evaluate hoth sides of 
tilL i~sL-e. FLOC hls pre~c!lled their side 
quite thoroughlv. A..~ ;J C.!rt1phell Soup 
employee and an "'D alumnus. I ask you to 
consider the other side: 
Campbell emplovs no migrant 
farmworkers_ Campbell doe~ contract with 
Ohio farmers who hire migrants. 
FLOC proposes Campbell participation in 
three-wav labor negotiations between the 
worker~ and the farmers. It would be im­
proper for Campbell to interfere with a sup­
plier and another organi~ation doing 
husiness together. 
Campbell actively supports migrant 
workers. Thirtv-six migrants now work full 
time at our Napoleon. Ohio plant. Camphell 
offered the Ohio Council of Churche~ 
S2SO,OOO and Clinicas \1igrantes S2S,OOO 
for migrant aid programs. (Both organiza: 
tions refused the donations.) 
Campbell does not set tomato prices in Ohio. Hunt'~ and Heinz both process more tomatoes in Ohio than CampbelL If farmers could obtain higher prices elsewhere, they would. 
In the last 19 months. I have worked at 
over a dozen Campbell operations. I have 
never witnessed one instance of employee 
mistreatment. 
Campbell does possess a corporate con­
science. 
Please make an informed vote on Tuesday. 
Catb)' Costello '8 I 
Continue boycott 
DearEditor: 
I understand that the students at Notre 
Dame have the opportunity to.renew their 
support of the ·Camphell boycott in a 
referendum on Feb. H. I 9S_;. 
The issues can become clouded when a 
hoycott extends into years a~ has the one 
FLOC is continuing. The cannery sets the 
price paid to the growers for the tomatoes. 
hut this is not high enough to enable ade­
quate housing and just salaries for the 
farmworkers. The hoycott is an attempt to 
educate the owners of the cannery 
(Campbell Soup Company) of their respon­
sibility for just wages and benefits for the 
workers. 
The hoycott is working. Some informal talk~ have begun to take place hetween Campbell and FLOC. The farmworkers need our continual support, especially now that ~orne progress is heing made. 
I hope the students of the l'niversity of 
:"Jotre Dame will vote to continue their sup­
port tiJr the boycott ofCampbell products_ 
Sister Charlene M(}Ser, OP Committee on Corporate Responsibilitv Dominican Sisters St. Catharine, Kentucky 
Bilateral instead 
DearEditor: 
On Feb. 8, the Notre Dame student body will have the opportunity to vote on 
whether lM' not the l nited States should 
implement a unilateral nuclear freeze. In 
vie\\·' of the recent letter supporting the uni­
lateral freeze ("Vote' For' 1 nilateral Freeze". 
_)an. 2-. 1985 ). we felt it was appropriate that 
we respond. 
First ofall. let us state that the referendum 
to he considered supports a unilateral 
freeze. which is ven· different from the 
nuclear freeze advocated by many in this 
country. A unilateral nuclear freeze by the 
l'nited States is a nuclear freeze hv tht· 
l'nited States alone. :"ooo mention i~ made ofa 
similar freeze by the Soviet l nion. In fact. 
the Soviet l'nion would h(' free to continue 
the build-up they have heen pursuing ~ince 
the 19SO's. 
The argument that hoth the (·nited States 
and the Soviet l'nion currently possess 
enough power to hlow up the world many 
times does not work here. The reason: if the 
l'nited States freezes nuclear weapons 
production. te~ting. and deployment. it 
would also freeze technological advann· in 
nuclear weaponrv. The Soviets. on the other 
hand. would be under no such restriction. 
enabling them to develop weapons which 
would make ours obsolete. Due to the 
ticmendoL!~ ~pc::d !)t"rt",:hnole~:~::•l advance 
these davs. it will not take iong ti1r :hat ''; 
happen. and once it does. the Soviets will he 
less cautiou~ about undertaking "little ad­
ventures" (such as Afghanistan). The l nited 
States will no longer have the power to chal­
lenge such aggres~ion. 
We arc no less frightened bv the prospect ofa nuclear contlict and no less dbturbed b,­the current worldwide build-up of nuclear weapons than are those who support the unilateral freeze. IX'e recognizt· the stronR need to call a halt to the build-up and reduce and eliminate the nuclear arsenals of the l'nited States. the Soviet l'nion. and all other nations or entities possessing them. 
However. the above cannot be ac­
complbhed hy the l nited States implement­
ing a nuclear freeze by itself The solution 
must be /Jilateral agreements between the 
two superpowers to reduce the size of their 
nuclear arsenals. 
Theret(Jre, those who support a mutual freeze by both the l'nited States and the Soviet l'nion should oppose this rekren­dum. as should those who support bilateral reduction agreements (such as the SALT treaties and future START treaties)_ Remem­ber. aunilateralfreeze by tbe United States does not require tbe Sot•iet Union to ji·eeze 
and is a dangerous and irresponsihle wav to "solve" the problem of nuclear weapons. 
Bilaterallv reducing the world's nuclear arsenals will take time and patit·nce. but it deserves our continued support. Have faith in the bilateral process. \'ore ":'IJO" on the unilateral freeze Feh_ H. 
.VlJ College Repuh/icans 
Reminder 
The Observer cordiaJiy invites all those interested in the nuclear freeze referendum to a debate between John Blandford of the Two-Campus Freeze Coalition and Mark Lynch of the Notre Dame College Republicans. 
Questions posed bv three Ob­serz,er panelists will provide the basis for an evening of open dis­cussion of the meaning of the proposed nuclear freeze referen­dum prior to the vote to be i:aken on Feb. 8. The debate will begin at 8 p.m. Sunday, Feb. 6, in Room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. 
---------------------------------------------·-------------~---------------------------------------------------.--------------~......................~----------------~~----~.. 

Friday, February 3, 1983 -page 8 
Whenyou' retiredandburntoutc 
i 
I 
I 
The Golden mean 
... 
I
n medio stat virtus; virtue is in the middle, the Roman adage says. The middle, or the midway between extremes, is called the Gold· en Mean, the law and norm ofvirtue. In medio stat uirtus favors avoiding excess and deficiency in the regulations oflife. 
lfI were a sailor or a lumberjack, instead ofa priest who needs to keep his hands nice for Mass, I would find it useful to wear the words Golden andMean as tattoos: Golden on the left fist, Mean on the right. The head and heart would be in the middle. halfway between. Strangers met at cocktail parties would avoid the Mean side, and wonder ifthe Golden left indicates I'm generous with money. I'd let them figure it out for themselves. 
The tattoos would warn me against getting carried away. People who promote causes usually get carried away; for example, non· smokers, among whom, ex-smokers are sometimes the worst. Non· smokers are the pits, when they carry on crusades. Hitler was a non-smoker. I think Hitler is alive and well, and rides beside me on 
___!he airlines .. 
Rev. Robert GriHin 
letters toG lonely god 
"You're not going to light up again?" asks the termagant in the seat bu·ckle next to mine. "That's why I asked to be seated in the sm.~~i11g ;ectioa," i replv. · "W"h~t's your eA<:~:;r?" 
··=cigarettes are ruining my world," she says. "There should be a law." 
"Adolph," I want to tell her, "I know you without the mustache." Instead, I blow smoke rings, wishing she would suffocate. Anyway, it's my world, too. 
In the Sixties, everyone had a cause. Even being uncommitted was a kind ofa cause. In politics, there were the militants and the pacifists, and the zombies who expressed no opinion. The zombies were the most truculent guys you would meet. Iknow a zombie who smashed up a bar one night because he refused to argue about Viet­nam. As the police carried him out, he was shouting that he refused to get involved in discussions about politics or religion. The judge gave him thirty days for disturbing the peace. 
I dread the company ofpeople who insist on making a statement. Greenwich Village has street corners where everyone is making a statement. The vegetarians are making a statement. The unisexuals are making a statement. The hippies and faded flower children are making statements. The sidewalk evangelists are making statements beginning: "You were neither hot nor cold ..." At McSorley's ale house, T-shirts at the next table, reading from left to right, are making statements: "Legalize Pot"; "Ban the Bomb"; "Abortion On Demand"; "I'm One OfThe Few People Who Never Slept With Shel­ley Winters." (The fellow not intimate with Shelley Winters was making aother statement by carrying a purse.) In the Village, you know where everyone stands, or lies down, and with whom. Unfor­tunately, the Village is too predictable; nobody has made an original statement in years. 
I have a problem with the nuts who go to the best restaurants to make their statements. Why go to a gourmet restaurant to make the point that you're fasting for the hunger oft .he world? The patrons don't enjoy the pictures ofstarvingchildren with their meals, so why hand them out? Why go to Sardi's to protest abo.rtions? Why go to the Four Seasons to argue with the waiter about additives, demanding that he show you labels from cans, and the bill ofsale telling where they bought the lettuce? 
The passing years leave one mellow. I no longer need to make statements by the length of my hair or the patch on my jeans. The middle way is my way, neither liberal! nor conservative, neither fanatic nor slobbish; resisting the temptation to ride offwildly in all directions, and refusing to follow the exmaple of my dog, Darby O'Gillll, who is constantly barking up the wrong types oftrees. Choosing between virtue and vice, I will follow the halfway path of morality, leading to the security ofChristian mediocrity. Fortunate­ly, Lent is coming. I can give up tea instead of Manhattans; there is enough of the cross in abstaining from Tet .ley's. At Easter, I can reward my denial with jelly beans. Lent is such a splendid seasn for moderation. lfthe Church didn't have a season ofdenial, we would have to invent one. 
In an intolerant age, Christian reasonableness is such a relief. I feel as peaceful as a cucumber, following the Golden Mean. Who wants to be Daniel Berrigan or Mother Teresa? 
The students collecting names in front ofthe dining halls, that's who. 
The good causes will always have their witnesses and their adv· 
ocates. 
I don't believe that the Lord meant it when he threatened to spit 
out the lukewarm and uncommitted. 
It's nice in the cucumber patch, believing "In medio stat virtus". 
The Latin would look lovely as a statement on aT-shirt. Personaly, 
however, I no longer believe in making statements, so I'll discon­
tinue making this one. 
For those who remember him. Feb. 3 would have been the thir­teenth birthday of the original Darby O'Gill. May he rest in peace in the Grotto. For the ten years that he lived, he was my statement to the world. Darby O'Gill II is still finding the marks he left behind. 
I
t was last night and it was dying 
fast. Sanity followed the notes into 
a pile on my desk. I needed more 
than just a break. Rock and roll 
ceased to be just a choice -it 
became an essential. 
The stereo, my faithful friend 
through the long, long South Bend 
school rears, just couldn't do it this 
time. Live music is whatI needed, 
live blood, live people listening to 
live rock and roll. 
The Observer caught my eye. 
Senior Bar. Two hands, The Essen­
tials and Nobis. It sounded perfect. 
Memories ofsenior bar came back to me. The first, homey, crowded senior bar. With a lighted dance floor, two bars always crowded and Michelob on tap. Yeah. 
But it's gone. Now there's a new bar on campus. Spacious. A huge bar. Lots ofdance room. Agreat stage with good lighting. It was worth a try. 
I handed my Jc:~1r and my il> to the checker. She smiled back and let me in. It just isn't the same going in­to a bar when you're really 21. 
The front entrance of the bar impressed me. Perhaps that is be­cause every time I went to the old senior bar the first thing I saw was the toilet. Such is the life ofa fresh­man. 
The music was at a nice level. I 
walked in and hung a left toward the 
stage area. It was open, like a square 
barn with a nice size wooden dance 
floor and lots of lighting. 
But no people. 
I turned around, heading for the bar, the first stop for any serious drinker. Senior bar is made for the serious drinker, too. Beer posters everywhere, with the dominant feature of the place being the centrally-located, easy to maneuver, easy to reach, bar. Yeah. 
Hunter S. Konrady 
But I wasn't here for the beer alone. This was a rock and roll ex­cursion cruise, first class. Love Boat, my amp. This was an opt ium den ofa 
rock and roll junkie. 
Out of the corner ofmy eye. I saw them. In a corner with little lighting, strapping electrical cords together and running them throughout the room. The area where they were playingwas acoustically comparable to Stepan Center. I talked to one of the roadies. The sound system was borrowed that afternoon when a mix-up occurred. The band was used to stuff like this, though. They were wired for rock, stoned for roll, hungry for beer. Their eyes flashed. 
· Arms jerked. Hair stood on end. The beer in my cup was splashing. It was the old bar spirit. 
The band cam~ up &nd talked to me. They were The Essentials. 
Major Mike "Bass" O'Connor. Brought the hand up from Pitts­burgh, where they still play in the summer. Goes to school here. Kicked out ofDillon! Rock and roll material. 
Captain Bill Praksti. Guitar and vo­cals. Fronts the hand with his voice; hints at the artists style yet retains in­dividuality. 
Sergeant Bill Klemms. Rhythm guitar. MIA from rock and roll wars in Pittsburgh. Too many nights. 
Sergeant Wayne "Brass" Rosso. Supposed to play the drums, but whacks the brass better than anyone I've ever seen. 
Private Pete Ferra. Keyboards. Recruited for the NO tour. 
NEW ISIS 
T ast Tuesday night the grand ~pening of the New Isis Gallery usher·~d in a new era for the Art Department, now renamed the Department ofArt, Art History and Design. Many students, faculty and staff members were on hand to wit­ness this gala event. Delia Thomas, one of the three women who make up the "administrative staff" ofisis, noted with pieasure, "There have been a lot ofpeople, students and professors, in and out all night. They weren't all from the Art Department, either. We hope it's (the opening) a beginning for total campus aware­ness (ofIsis); Isis is for all students." 
The show, the "excuse" for the festivities, was billed as a student retrospective. The exhibition is an admirable conglomeration ofpaint­ings, drawings, prints, ceramics, sculpture and fibres, indicating the variety oftastes, styles and talents that make up the artistic community at Notre Dame. The organizers ofthe show had a difficult job arranging such a diverse body of works, but af­ter solving the inevitable problems 
ofa new gallery, Thomas says heart­ily, "The space works really well. There's great potential." 
The new gallery is now located on the third floor of the new art build­ing. Eileen O'Meara, another coor­dinator ofIsis explains the philosophy behind this new gallery space: "The Snite Museum shows professional work and artists with international reputations. What we plan to do is represent student work. For the rest of the semester we will • offer one, two and three student shows, hopefully a different one every two weeks. Atter the response to the Farewell To The Fieldhouse, where we had a wild flourescent light sculpture and a super dance performance to a sound sculpture, we hope to have many different mediums represented in the future at the new Isis -things like music, video, performance, film, all emphasizing students." 
The Grand Opening ofthe new Isis Gallery was not merely another art exhibit reception, however. Itof­fered an opportunity to discuss and reflect on the new look ofthe Department ofArt, Art History and Design, especially in its most visible form, the newly renovated building. Tamera Mams, the third director of Isis says that the opening heralds a new feeling for the Art Department. "The participation that's been 
shown in theFarewell to The Fieldhouse party and the participa­tion ofstudents in organizing the gallery and this show indicates an energy and a vibrancy that has lain dormant for years." She con­tinues, commenting on the evolving nature ofthe department, "In view ofthe variety ofartists, from Chile, South Africa, Canada, Puerto Rico and all parts ofthe United States, there is a great interaction ofpoliti­cal and social ideas and ideas on what art should he. The proximity of the artists in this new building en­courages each artist to think more about his work and that ofothers. Because of this interaction and, of­ten, the combat ofideas that occurs, students now question not only each other, but their studio and Art History professors, making classes 
The atmosphere was set. Lousy stage. l'nfamilar sound system. Bad lighting. A brand-new keyboard player. Electricity was under the car­pet and in mv bodv. The hovs were
. . . 
charged. It was time to rock. 
Wayne slapped the brass and Bas~ 
pulled the strings and I saw Pete 
punch his kevs but I couldn't really hear anything anymore and Bill 
stepped up to the mike and swept his hand across the guitar body and 
it came out as Police on my Back just 
I 

and two otherexhf 
more stimulating and educational. would be to the advantage ofanyoe on campus to become part ofthis a1 mosphere." 
0'Meara elaborateson the oftimc "combative" volley ofideas: "Ther is a tendency for a lot ofartists her• to think that their work is very dif­ferent from everyone else's, but I think that there is a universal qualw in the work done here, a-unity in th variety.ofour expressions, and I think you can see that in this sho\11 Some of the art done here is very political. Other work attempts to make person to person contact. F other artists, the work serves only personal expression. But everybo is saying things about people. The tists are saying very human things ... about the broad spectn ofhuman relations. The universal 
concept is that this art is intense!) personal." 
And so the work ofcreating cor tinues, beginning now to flourish a new setting, a new building. Though some grumble about the' comparitive lack of sp:' : and the degree ofsterility in the freshly painted white walls, in comparisq 
to the wide open, albeit decrepit c panses ofthe beloved fieldhouse, with such a churning ofcreative 1 pulses, it won't take long for the l tists to make Old Chern their OWl breaking it in to suit their diverse needs and interests. 
Delia Thomas sums up the neVI building in general, Isis in particu "Everyone is welcome, engineer: ' chemists, premeds, business majors,anybody. Don't be shy; it' lot offun." 
.. -~:~j . .,; ___ -­

~ ----~-­
~----------~------------------~------------------------------------------~--~---------~ 
The Observer Features Section 

Before I was ready they swept me 
It wa.~ almost over. It's Only Rod{' 
up and the air from tJ:lat huge black 
and Roll. The Real Me. L.A. Woman. 
box aimed right at me blew right 
Lola. Destroyer. Breakdown. All 
through my shirt and the bass
gone gonzo awesome. By now, nothing else mat­
thump-thumped my stomach and 
tered. The bar behind me was 
that kevboard run with that last high 
like the Clash and I couldn't hear packed full ofpeople all looking past
note t~ok me and grabbed me and
anvmore and I could fed the me. They pushed and pushed. B­
ran up to the top of my body and it
el~ctricity coming from those cords Movie, the only original in the se t t. 
was Elvis Costello and "Pump it llp"
under the carpet and the air from the Polished as the rest. Then the finale. 
and I pumped and pumped and they
P.A. and the feedback and I couldn't Twist and Shout. Beatles. The crowd kept playing_ and the feedback. the
see ami I felt and I felt and tears came swarmed me and they danced and feedback grabbed my ears and
and it wa.~ rock and roll and it was victory was wrung. But the cam­the old times. new times, everytime. pulled them open and let the rock in paign wasn't over. The crowd asked and it was like the Who and
The song wa.o; over and I scribbed for an encore. Abar crowd. For a bar 
Squeezebox and the guitar. Bill, he
in my notebook all the things I band. An encore. Ram ones. Suzie is a 
kept picking and pounding, dragging
wanted to say right now, right now 
Headbanger. Punk rock. The Essen­to vou. Alii could sav was nice vocal 
that Domer out of me. and Wayne 
tials were going out on Their ito~:;'.;.
started singing "It's Hard" and feed­
and great power guitar and powerful Til_~ crow.:<,',;:;:pi pushing for more.

back screamed .at m•: tn suh~.'.~ i_'_; They put down the instruments and
th.~ ~,u;i~. 
pointed to the spacious stage on the other side of the bar wher.e Nobis 
End ofsong. They huddled. The 
was setting up. The crowd pushed. A 
bar was quarter-full, standing 
second encore from the best·bar 
around. Drinking. They talked. I 
band ever. Long Tall Sally. 
drank my beer, foam running down 
Everybody. They ended the set. The 
the sides of the cup. It shook. The 
audience screamed for more. The 
group went back to their places, 
band laughed.
firey eyes and jumping up, up, up. 
I smiled and got up and walked 
Bill hit his guitar. Hit it. Again. The 
out and smiled back at the checker 
rhythm picked up. The Essentials 

and went outside and my ears rang 
were going for the throat. The Clash. 
out and I felt great. 
Bill screamed "Darling won't you let 
me know" and they. Domers all, got up and moved. They started moving Editor's note: Yes, hegot to bed all past me and I thought they were right. Rock and roll has hen known 
going to leave and I couldn't believe to provide some seriousflashback it and it wa.~ the eve of the set and effects, hut we all think young this was the song that would either Eddie made it. Watch for his next push the group over the edge or sit it dangerous assignment on these down and they were moving and very pages. And remember, 
they were ... dancing. And Bill whateveryou may think ofthe new grinned and Bass grinned and Senior Bar, it's still therefor the Wayne slapped the brass and I same old reason. Figure it, huh? 
couldn't even see Pete for the 
Angela Adamson 
its art 
Gallery are examples of Mickey's strange image has become the 
Friday, Februaryp3, 1983 -page 9 
H u'"'\h. ir··s sunny :ind there isn't a cloud in the sky." So says the 
weatherman. The weatherman in Tampa, Florida, that is. Here in good old South Bend, the sun is hiding behind those flurry· filled clouds that are waiting to deposit their load until some flus­tered student has to race to his 9 a.m. class. And the activities of the day aren't an early morning golfgame and a late afternoon set often­nis. It is time to get out the ice skates and the necessary pieces of attire to greet old man winter as he storms across the Midwest, laughing at us humans as we try to rescue ourselves from his folly. 
Such is the plight ofa Midwest winter. But all need not be lost. Thereare ways to forget all ofthe drudgery oflayered dress and cold fingers and toes. The logical idea would be to stay inside, move around and keep warm. Here are a few ways to accomplish that feat. And if none of them work for you, try a good cup of hot chocolate 
with a friend. . 
•THEATRE 
What do you get when you combine one of the best Russian writers ofthe turn-of-the-century and one ofthe best contemporary comic playwrights? What you have is Anton Chekhov producing the stories from which Neil Simon formulates the script. What you get is the outrageously funny play, The Good Doctor. South Bend Civic Theatre proudly presents their 1983 production ofThe Good Doc­tor directed byJoseph Zavisca. The show will be performed tonight and tomorrow night, and the next two weekends, Thursday through Saturday, at the Fire House Theatre, 701 Portage Ave. Phone 288· 6031 or 234-5696 for reservations. Tickets are S2.75 for Thursday's performances and S3.50 for the weekends'. 
•MOVIES 
Ifthere was ever a movie that required beforehand planning, it has to be this weekend's presentation in the Engineering Auditorium. Not to leave you in the lurch or keep you guessing, Raiders ofthe LostArk is the feature film. The geniuses in the Student Union picked one ofthe few films that will assuredly fill the Engineering 
l?'<(i'dltorium all six times that it is being shown. Showtimes are 7, l9:15, and 11:30 p.m. tonight and tomorrow night. I'm not even going 'to try to predict how early you'll have to be there to get a seat. 
plate forms. Especially attractive are module, an almost surrealistic icon, The Friday Night Film Series will be presenting one ofIngmar
Hammes 
the saggar fired stoneware items. on which the artist builds her sys· Bergman's most recent films, starring Ingrid Bergman and Liv Ul·The characteristic smoky markings terns. 
!mann,Autumn Sonata. When it opened in 1978, critics noted the produced by this method lend them· The most surrealistic system is the
0 
ld Domers never die,they just sensitive portrayals of Bergman and Ullmann as the mother and 
selves easily to the idea ofinner Magic Night Landscape series. The
keep coming back to visit. Such daughter whose relationship is illuminated by the exploration of 
spaces. crystal ball appears in an other­
would seem to be the case with the longing and guilt. The film will be shown at 7:30p.m. in the Annen­
Ifyou ~tan opportunity before worldy landscape, with strange
current show ofStephen L. Mickey berg Auditorium. Admission is S2. 
February 18, the show's closing moons floating through the sky. A ceramics in the Hammes Gallery in 
date, meander into the Hammes reflection of the chalet begins to ap­•MARDI GRAS 
Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. It just Gallerv. pear in a puddle below the ball. The Karen Klocke and her fine committee ofdedicated mardi gras-ersgoes to show that football games are Ifo~ly to see a glimpse oflife after reflection grows stronger in the have spent hours upon hours in dark Student Union offices (andnot the only places to find alums, graduation. next painting and the planets in the other dark pseudo-offices at various places on and offcampus) put­, especially the artists. Mickey black sky change. The image in the ting together what they hope is the best Mardi Gras ever at Notrereceived his master offine arts de· ball is altered. In the next painting in Dame. Despite ticket difficulties for the Dance-a-thon raffle, this gree from the University ofNotre 
Little Theatet 
the series, snow fills the canvas and Mardi Gras looks like it will be one ofthe most successful ... ifyouDame in May of 1982. 
blurs the image. The snow has been take the opportunity to go out and support it. This weekend youMickey is primarily known for his enclosed inside the crystal ball in have the chance to either sit back and relax, watching and listeningoff-beat ceramics with sculptural Bebe Krimmer Brams, generally the fourth painting. Finally the crys­to some ofthe best talent between the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's overtones; the works in this show recognized for her printmaking, tal ball breaks up -in white flames campus at the Mardi Gras Talent Show ordance the night away at thefall along fairly traditional lines. The currently has an exhibit ofwork han· and the chalet flies away. Mardi Gras Dance·a·thon. Tonight, the campus stars are out to shinetitle ofthe show, New Work on In· ging in the Little Theater Gallery in The only two paintings that do not on the Chautauqua stage starting at 9 p.m. Admission is S2 and for nerSpaces, suggests that the pieces Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's College. 
contain crystal ball images are that tidy sum, you will be entertained by an encore performance byin this exhibit represent a new direc­But if you happen to wander in to "Moon Rock," and the painting next . Par 3, the Keyes Brothers and Scott O'Grady, plus a lively assortmenttion in Mickey's artistic growth. check out her work, you won't find to it," Mineral Collection." The ofother fascinating acts. 
Much of the pottery in the lithography and silkscreen on the forms in these two are related and Saturday night is the ever-popular Dance-a-thon. This event willHammes collection can be con· walls. Like Stephen Mickey, the both employ the repetition of begin for the dancers at 1 p.m. in South Dining Hall but all ofyousidered variations on a theme. For other artist currently featured at shapes to create the modular sys· closet dancers who didn't have the stamina to sign up for the Dance­instance, pieces 18 through 22 are Saint Mary's, Brams is exhibiting tern. The "Mineral Collection" is a a-thon will have the chance to dance the heart ofthe night away fromall approximately the same rounded work for which she is not generallly nice colorstudy, as the crystal forms 9 p.m. to I a.m. Ifyou were one of Mardi Gras' raffle ticket suppor·shape. The form encloses a round noted. Rather than graphics, the ex­modulate from greens to oranges as ters, you can get into the dance free with your ticket. If not ... well,space. Perhaps this is the inner space hibition is composed ofacrylic the eye travels from left to right what's a buck to dance? 
to which Mickey refers. The most painting, under the heading of 
across the picture plane.
remarkable element of this series of Modular 'leries Svstems. •NAZZ
While the exhibit is an interesting
vessels, and of Mickey's work in With the exception oftwo paiht· It's Nazz time again. And what doesjohn Warnach have lined up
one, especially for those marginally
general, is the subtle tones in the ings, all of her work includes the for this weekend? The ever-popular Open Stage leads offthe
interested in dreams and surealistic
glazes. The soft gradations ofcolor image ofa crystal ball, enclosing a weekend's events, starting at 9 p.m. and continuing until 10:30 p.m. 
landscapes, none of the paintings
evident in numbers 18 · 22 are chalet-like structure. The image ap· The evening will be capped offwith the mellow sounds ofStephanie
was particularly strong. Ifyou are in
reminiscent ofdreams. another in· pears alone, a.'> in each of the five Korcheck andJim Burns at 10:30 p.m. Tomorrow night is New Wave
Moreau Hall, though. for whatever
terpretation ofinner '>paces. Anoth· paintings which make up Magic Night at the Nazz. Propaganda will be featured, opening this new and
reason, check out the Bram's show. 
er vessel form M1ckey experiments Night Landscape, or it appears many entirely different style of Nazz entertainment at 10 p.m.
it will only be exhibited through
with is a tight-mouthed teardr0p times, to form a grid, as in February 18.
shape. "Mountain~ Modular," or in the Around the wall~ of the Hammes shape ofa geodisic dome. The 


~j)()~tS:fl:=:~:~:·~~=S========~========================F=rid=a=y=,F=e=br=u=ar=y=3='=19=8=3===pa=g=e==Io
By The (J!Jsen•er and Tbe Associuted Press 
NCAA-VFY volunteers are reminded to pick up their tickets for tomorrow's South Carolina game in Steve Orsini's office any time this week If you have any questions, contact one of the student directors. -The Ohsen•er 
The Notre Dame weightlifting club will 
hold its first meeting on Sunday at I:00 p.m. in the weightroom on the third floor of the Rockne \lemorial. Attendance is verv impor­tant. \lemberships will be taken and special club hours and policies will be explained. Anvone interested in weightlifting, bodvhuilding, or powerlifting (no experience necessarv) is welcome. If you are interested. but are unable to attend. call Vlatt at I 'iH1 nr Pat at H6--. -The Ohserz-er 
The Irish women swimmers have a meet this 
evening at The Rock aginst DePauw. Dennis Stark's team is +'ion the season to date. -The O!Jsen·er 
~ ' .
The Irish ill~!!-§ 51Nllll team has a meet tomorrow afternoon at The Rock agatnst lhe l niver~itv (ilukt10· -Tbe Ob· serz•er 
BrotherJoseph Bruno's Notre Dame wrestling team is in California this weekend. Today, the Irish will go against Cal State-Long Beach and tomorroow will participate in the Biola (Bible Institute of Los Angeles) Invitational. -The Ohsen•er 
The Saint Mary's basketball team will participate in the Hanover Invitational tournament at Hanover College this weekend. 
-The Obsen•er 
Men's and women's fencers will travel w the 
Llniversitv of Wisconsin-Parkside for a meet with l'WP. Purdue, Lawrenc~ and Tri-State tomorrow. The men's team is 15·1 and on a six-match winning streak. -The Obsen•er 
Even though he is one of the best players on the 
Notre Dame hockev team. Sean Regan rarelv draws at· 
tention. 
Though the defenseman's smart and savvy and 
knowledge of the game matches his considerable physi­
cal abilities, Regan doesn't draw attention to himselfhe­
cause he seldom makes a mistake. Rather thn having to 
make a spectacular play after being cayght out of posi­
tion. Regan is always one stride ahead ofthe opposition. 
It's simple -Regan has a real knack lor being in the 
rtght place at the right time. 
"\sa highlv-recruited high school senior at Hill \lur­
ray High School in :'liorth St. Paul, \linn., Regan -the 
son of a Notre Dame alumnus -narrowed his choices 
to :-.lotre Dame and Harvard. 
"I had three things l was looking for," remembers 
Regan. "First of all. I wanted to get a top-calibre educa­
tion. and pretty much liked the atmosphere of a Cath­
olic university -and I wanted to go somewhere with a 
Division I hockey program. 
"I was hoping I could benefit from all three at Notre 
Dame." 
During his first year, he did benefit from all three. 
OnCI: again, it seemed that he was in the right place at 
the rigiii ;;~~­
But no more. Last week's oed;;ion :2 c:!;~!1 .ge the status of the Notre Dame hockey program from Divi­sion I to club shoved Sean Regan into a very unfamiliar position. Suddenly, he was in the right place at the wrong time. And just as suddenly, Regan was going to be forced to make a decision he thought he would never have to make. 
"All the wav. though, I always thought that something would come through so that I could get my education and play where I wanted." says Regan of the ordeal that preceded the official announcement of the program's demise. "I kept thinking that some type ofmiracle woud occur until the tina! announcement." 
The harsh reality of the situation is magnified by a firm conviction within Regan and others that the Uni­versity administration had sold the program down the river. 
"The thing that people are trying to get across is that we realize that the economic situation isn't very good, hut in no way can we say that it justitles dropping the program for the reasons they gave." 
Regan skates through hockey ruin 
C • C h J 
r a Ig v a 
Sports Writer 
Regan insists that there an: options which the ad­
ministration chose to ignore. 
"I know that there are a lot ofpeople who have been 
around college hockey and know that there were 
changes that could have helped the h~>ckev program 
along. hut that would have taken some money and the 
administration didn't want to take the risk. 
"There are only two or three programs that come out 
even. and thev had to realize that trom the start." savs 
Regan. 
"They were w·illing to accept mediocritv." 
A large part of Regan's feeling that the l.'niversity 
wasn't interested in producing a program that would 
consistently challenge for league and national honors 
stems from the team's facilitv in the Athletic and Con­
vocation Center. 
"\\:'hen a potential recruit comes to the ACC he's not rr!Jllv impressed. The people don't feel part of the ac­tion ~ii!('t it."-50 Oig. ii 's not :-~:.Hy f!Oi~~· anti the rink is lost in the North Dome. 
"It was as if they just had to find a place to stick the rink and decided that this was as good a place as any. They didn't seem to put much thought into it." 
In retrospect, although Regan was caught unaware by the administation's action, he doesn't believe it was a spur-of-the-moment.decision. 
"Right when it came. it was a hit ofa .~hock. hut after giving it a little thought, I realized that the decision had been made earlier." 
Nonetheless, as an incoming freshman, Regan had no idea what kind of thin ice the "iotre Dame hockey program was skating. 
"I had complete trust that I'd he plaving at "'otre Dame for four years," he says. "But I don't hold that against Lefty or anybody in the program. I'm sure they would've told us if they knew because that's the wav 
See CHVAL, page 14 
The Observer w1ll accept class1fieds Mon­day through Fr1day. 10 am. to 4.30 p.m. However. class1f1eds to appear in the next 1ssue mt..ist be rece;ved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to Insertion. All class1fieds must be prepaid. 
e1ther 1n person or through the ma1l.
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 
Surplus Jeeps, cars and trucks available Many sell for under $200 Call 312-743· 1143 Ext 7316 for mformatton on how to purchase 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST GOLD SEIKO WATCH LEFT IN LOCKER AT THE ROCK 
LOST--gold necklace w1th a 1n1ttal charm 1 probably lost 1t tn or near the Rock. please call ann at 1822 
Lost A brown wmter jacket at Campus V1ew. Apt 207 If you p1cked 11 up by m<stake. call J1m at 3632 The jacket was lost at the party on Fnday t /28/83. 
LOST GOLD SEIKO WATCH LEFT IN LOCKER AT THE ROCK ON t /24/83 IF FOUND PLEASE CALL GARY AT x4388 REWARD$$$ 
LOST. NO CLASS RING( 83). NAME '-JSIDE LOST POSSIBLY AT \1C(MOREAU· 0 LAUGHLIN HALL). , \ST SEEN OVER WEEKEND OF 1/28· 130 IF YOU HAVE aNY INFO PLEASE 
CALL 283·3346 
LOST"" NOTRE DAME class nng. A GOLD lad1es d1nner nng, w1th a GOLD stone lnscrrpJ1on on 1ns1de IS--8.8 F 84 · If found please call BRIDGET at 8565, )f JIM at 3274 Or come by 325 Lew1s or 216 Keenan Please help'!THANK YOU!! 
'.OST A PAIR OF '-JAVY BLUE NYLCN RUNNING PANTS ON MONDAY JAN 31 THEY WERE DROPPED SOMEWHERE BETWEEN LEWIS AND GRACE IF FOUND PLEASE CALL KEVIN x1592 LATE NIGHT IS BEST 
FOUND: A book and gloves 1n 207 Cus· n1ng. Call Tim at 8428 to cla1m 
FOR RENT 
NICE FURNISHED H0\1ES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO NO GOOD ARE ~S 2773604 TWO ROOMS WITH BATH ALL UTILITIES PAID MALE PREFFERED PRIVATE ENTERANCE 2880955 
STUDENT RENTAL. 4-BEDROOM HOUSE CALL 232-4057 272-7767 
4 bdrrn furnished house. near campus On Notre Dame Ave Good condttton 9 mo lease $335 per mo Call 684-0933 (local calli 
NEAT & NEAR NO. FURN 2 BDR POS· SIBLY 3. AVAIL IMMEDIATELY 233· 7631 
NEEDED. MALE ROOMMATE TO SHARE APARTMENT AT CAM· PUS VIEW INQUIRE AT 2771708 
WANTED 
DAYTON DAYTON DAYTON Need R1ders to Dayton for Feb 4·6 Call Pat at 1694 
NEED 5 G A s for S Carolina B-Ball 
game$$$ Call Mana 284-5147 
Need nde to CHICAGO on Fnday. 4 Feb 
Call Mark at 2103 
RIDE NEEDED TO MILWAUKEE TTHIS WEEKEND---CALL JOHN at1010 ANYTIME 
MAINE. BOSTON. OR PORTSMOUTH I NEED A RIDE THERE FOR BREAK PLEASE CALL KEITH AT 8857 
HELP' I need a nde to PITTSBURGH area weekend of Feh 1 1 -13 cr back on Feb 14' Will share usual Pleat!e call TER­RI x6797 
Auah 1t...teea nde to Dekalb. Chtcago. or an,Ywnere on way HELP'Pat x 1600 
Augh! Need nde to Dekalh. ChtcaQo. or ANYWHERE on way Feb 11-13. Helpl· PatncK x 1600 
FOR SA~ 
USED. OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS BOUGHT SOLD SEARCHED ERASMUS BOOKS 102C E WAYNE ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY JEFFERSON INTERSECTION FOR SALE·1 round tnp to anywhere that Ptedmont Atr~mes fifes S. 8 . NY C.. Denver.Boston.Dallas.Fionda and many more spots Call Mark at 1725 
AMPLIFIER FOR ELECTRIC GUITAR ORPIANO 120WATTSRMS.2121NCH SPEAKERS, EXCEL COND. CALL DAN 1849 
TICKETS 
NEED TIX -STUDENT OR G a. -FOR S C. GAME SATURDAY KATIE 8050 
Need 2 GA s or student t1xs to the S Car game. Wrll pay b1g bucks'll Call Scott 3265 
HELP! I need some t1x HELP' Not JUSt any t1x HELP' I need 3 GAs ·for the So Carolina B-Ball game.Tom-288· 8004 HELP' 
Need s"carolina trx Student or G.A Call Ed 277-1705 
PERSONALS 
JUGGLER The Juggler IS now acceptmg ftctton. poelry. essays photography, graphiCS. etc for the Spnng 1983 rssue SubmiS­SIOns should be turned 1n at the English Off1ce .309 0 Shag (Juggler mailbox) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU, H'IPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU, HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEAR PAUL MULLANEY, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU. 
Unlldteral Nuclear Free7e? USA USSR 0 UNLIMITED Pu•h for Bilateral Agree­ments Vote NO on Feb 8 
SENIORS FOR 1983-84 VOLUNTEER WORK WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES IN SEVERAL US CITIES, APPLICATIONS DUE FEBRUARY 8TH. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER, 7949. 
A YEAR OF SERVICE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIA1ES ONf YEAR POSTGRAD WORK MANY REWARDS HELPING THOSE WHO NEED YOU. DEADLINE FEBRUARY 8. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER. CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS, 7949. 
Nelly, Thts IS JUSt a note to cheer you up Don·t worry about thmgs, they II work out Have a great day. Can·t·watt to see you ton•ght. 
DENEEN HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY HAVE AN EXCELLENT DAY' THE BIG COPROLITE 
JUNIOR CLASS VALENTINE DATENIGHTII FEB 10, t1x on sale Mon­day 
ORGANIC CHEMISRY got you 1n pamc? Call At tor tutor. 234 1 840.6-9p m 
The ·B.S." IS only 1n the Initials--BILL SMITH FOR DISTRICT ONE STUD-ENT SENATOR' 
Mrke. 
It'll be popeye defeat1ng Bobby R1ggs 
7-5. 6-0 thts weekend. Don I forget the stx 
of M1c (and a quart of Bud for Phil the 
Beefcake!ll) 
Heather 
ATTENTION! 
/1/ISWEATSUITS FOR SALE !Ill 
TOP BRAND, FAMOUS DESIGNER 
SWEATSUITS, REGULARLY $82 NOW 
ONLY $301! CALL GREG AT 8291 OR 
TIM AT 1651! THEY'RE GOING FAST SO 
HURRY' 
HELP' I ve lost my heart Do you know where tt tS, G.P A? 
Dear Pussycat, Let me get to the BARE facts I LOVE YOU III Your Teddybea• 
SR MARYLOU. BP WILL SURELY MISS YOU MAY GOD CONTINUALLY BLESS YOU IN ALL YOUR ENDEAVORS AS YOUR PAST TWO YEARS HAVE BLEST US 
PASTA TONIGHTI SHALOM 
Job Bank Job-opemng at Computerland m Mtshawaka Part·t1me work nP.rKied 1n retatl and computer sales For 1nfo c.dll John Nelson at 256-5688 
Happy 18th B-day Barbara' Hupf'! vOLt and Robm enjoy your weekenrl at NO Love. Mary 
DALEY FOR MAYOR Any student •n­IP.tEJStttd m helptnq the Rtch Daley for Mavor can•oatgn please attend a ITiettng on the ftrst floor of Lafortune on Saturdav Feb 5 at 2 00 P M , 
LOOK FOR THE WOMEN MOVIE WE'EK FEB 7-11 SMCCARROLL HALL Hurd tS the wurd! 
Joe know the difference between dark and Hurd? It stays dark all mght 
l"m st1ll gomg to marry you, dear 
Date: Friday, Jan. 28 Dear diary: Mom never told me about days like this. I spent the whole night with eight guys·· two of them in the back seat un­der a coat. I'm dizzy. I went ice skating­
• drinking-· roller skating--drinking­ice skating--drinking--Toronto-­drinking. Toronto?? No... Mishawaka ... and Chip made 20 cents. Mom, we'd better have another talk. 
Karin 
p.s. 
To the cripple in front of LeMans: I'm sorry. 
OH. THE HUMANITY 
Twenty Ftve more lck, tts a caltmrty. oh the humanity. get me a gun 
Ahhhhh. the joys of Toledo 
To Ltz: Honey. I mtss our two-tongue ktsses, your legs wrapped around me light. If I ever get back to jun·-c,ty grrl, I m gonna make you JUmp all n1ght. 
Tammy Y., I Love You" PatS 
s To the runner arrd Btrdwoman I vtsrted 
the btrdhouse mr:tv t go back to the 
shade? 1"11 expect you to be merctless and 
1nf1nlfe anyway Uncontrollably. The Old 
Mard s roommate PS-Grandma sends 
ner regards 
Will Joe Hurd a~er tne dance? 
Joe want to be soft but Joe got to be Hurd 
NUCLEAR FREEZE WORKERS Poster blitz after the det?ate1 Come Helpl" All Welcome 
SMAK WATCH FOR IT NEXT WEEK' 
SMA-:• MEET A KISSER, Sponsored by Sen10' Class Send a certtftcate redeemable for a KISS to your lavonle' On sale Monday through Fnday. 11 OOAM 1 OOPM Feb 7 11 For only 25 cents .n LAFORTUNE Send a Ktss tor Valentrne s Day -srgn up 
now q•nlt 
JOHN BREEN WE LOVE YOUR CHEST• Dad. 
Happy 6th anntversary of your 40th 8­
day W1sh 1 could be 1n Buffalo to 
celebrate w1th a case of Brader s. Love. 
Buffalo Bob 
PS H1 Mom. Lynn. Tom and babyJess1ca 
long Island Club Happy Hour thiS Satur­day. Feb 5th. 4.30-6:30 1n Bad1n s 24· Hour Lounge!! All Ll ers and !herr fnends 
welcome'~'' 
A message for Mana Hyatt (al•as MBR) 
Hope the puck gets 1n the net to make a 
L1 1 W1t' Hey all you handsome NO 
St•cks, g1ve The Rodent" a call at 4035 
(SMC) to w1sh her a w•ld 19th B-day1 
Love. Cloud and Lo1d 
Happy Brrthday Ugly' Have you looked tn the mtrror lately? Fred 
LISA & \11KE An unbeatable team. G1Ve em a chance You II see what we mean Vote Salvador-Carlrn Feb 8 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY FANNY• Watch out tor hard knees. wed ltke you to remember your 20th' 
ATTENTION ALL STEPH AND JIM FANS DON T FORGET TO GO TO THE NAZZ AT 10 30 TONIGHT 11 YES. THAT S STEPH AND JIM-WHEN YOU CARE TO HEAR THE VERY BEST" 
GOOD LUCK STEPH AND JIM" We II be nght up front cheenng you on 1 Tha'lks for all the qreat mustc ot the past-there s 110­thtnq better than two good fnends who can-make you feel warm 1nsrde Just by jotng ..vt"la~ tl':ey do best11 Have fun tomg11t 1Love. Vour F~::~vonte Quad 
JACk 11 ''n?-gl•ie 11 s +omorrow Happy b1rthdav to you' t-'arpy b1rthdav to you' Happy birthday dear JAAAAACK Hap­
py btrthdav to youtt Arent we onqtnaf?? Love lhe q1r1s 
To tt1e PERVERT ~I the BEST ktnd. 
Bubt"JiP.S arP 0 K but leave the handcuffs 
and ,ce q~t ho~e' I m 1101 rnat 
typl:l HlGH1 ?'n 1 fhtnk. we are rjue 'or 
some "'lore HEARTY. BURGANDY. as 
long dR Mr Pte 15n t looktng on1 Wha1_1 m 
fryrng 1 ::_. say1.:. tl1at ym.. are verv -;pec1a1 to 
me' Tn.:=:nks tr•. f!Vf"f .'thtngr LOVE. THE 
AWf·SOME I'AVIGATOR P S A.ro 
swa11S ~tier? P S G Do I stt!l rank beh1nd 
wme.hut aheoo o~ Molsons and ptzza?? 
P P S.S Are you s!tll gonna rnake tne go 
to the drug store? 


·----------­
The Observer 
Friday, February 3, 1983 -page 11 
• • . Midwest 
continuedfrom page 16 
showing on the road would have been a big boost for its tournament hopes. 
However, the last time the Irish women lost two games in a row-in the Orange Crush Tournament in November -they came back with a vengence. 
"We've been in this position before and we were able to win our next nine games," says DiStanislao. "I'd like to think we could respond just as well this time. 
"The way we bounce back this 
week will be extremely important to 
the rest ofour season." 
Loyola, which stands 9-6 under Coach Marty Hawkins in its first season of Division I play, is a team of good shooters. Six-foot freshman forward Jackie Huszti is averaging 16 points per game, leading the Ramblers, and S-8 off-guard Kathy Leyden is a dangerous baseline shooter. 
However, the main cog in the Loyola strategy is its smallest cog. 
In last week's loss to Arizona State, the Irish were reminded that good things can come in small packages as a 5-6 jumping jack named Cassandra Lander killed them, scoring 24 points and collecting an amazing 13 .. rebounds. 
Loyola's attack is keyed by a guard 
even tinier than Lander. Faith Mim­
naugh is the 5-2 sparkplug who 
ignites the Rambler attack. 
"Loyola's offense is centered 
around her getting the ball to the 
inside people," ~ays Iri~h assistant 
Mary Ellen Murphy, who scouted 
Illini upset Hawkeyes at Champaign 
CIIA:\IPAIGN, Ill. (AP)-Led bv 
Efram Winter~· 1-, point~. lllinob up­
set 13th-ranked Iowa 62-61 in Big 
Ten basketballla~t night as the Haw­
keyes' Steve Cartino missed a jump 
shot with 1 3 ~econds to go. 
Illinois' George Montgomery 
grabbed the rebound an~ gave it to 
Derek Harper, who dribbled 
through a maze of Iowa players to 
preserve the win tor the Illini, I S-6 
overall and 5-3 in the Big Ten. Iowa 
fell to 13-'1 overall and 4-4 in the 
conference. 
Iowa led through almost the 
entire first half. but never by more than seven points. The Hawkeyes were hampered by foul trouble as both Greg Stokes and :vticheal Payne collected their third fouls in the half 
Stoke!>, Iowa'3 leading scorer on the ~cason. played only eight minutes of the tlrst period. but the Hawkeyes led at the half 32-26. 
Both teams came out shooting at the beginning of the ~econd half. Il­linois never let Iowa get more than a four-point ad\·antage through the first 12 minutes. 
The game's turning point came 
with H:05 to go a~ Stokes. who was 
held to just I I points -~even under 
his Big Ten avt·ragc. t(>uled out. II· 
linois' Doug Altenherger then hit a 
free throw to give the lllini a S I-SO 
lead, their tir:-.t since the game's 
opening basket. 
LEAVE THE ENTERTAINMENT TOUS! Omega Productions, Inc. is now opening their Mobile Music Division. We can provide a'ny type of music for any type of event. Parties are our specialty. Custom r.lUsic programmin_g is available Call 684-8100 and ask Susan or Brad for details. 
the Ramblers. "She's been very ef­fective doing that, and she's an ot: fensive threat herself. She has a good perimeter shot." 
"We'll beat Loyola if we control their fast break," says DiStanislao. "Also, we have to take advantage of inside mismatches that we're gonna get." 
The Notre Dame front line of 
Mary Beth Schueth, Ruth Kaiser, and 
Shari Matvey should be able to con­
trol the boards with ease against a 
Loyola team whose leading reboun­
der is 5-1 1 junior Kathy Anderson, 
who sweeps eight an outing. 
The records may not indicate it, but this weekend's main event should be the Sunday matinee with Iowa State. The matchup possesses some charm as the ISU coaching staff is well-acquainted with their coun­terparts on the other end of the 
sideline. 
Cyclones coach Deb Oing was an assistant to DiStanislao at Northwes­tern University, and Iowa State aide Vicky Voss co-captained with Murphy in their days at NU. 
Iowa State's similarity to Notre Dame, therefore, comes as no surprise. 
The Cyclones' 6-12 record is 
deceiving. They have played com­
petitive games with No. 3 Texas and 
No.9 Kansas State, and Irish assistant 
Patrick Knapp respects their ability. "They were within two of K-State with five minutes to go .... We've never been that close to a top team." The Iowa State zone and man-to­
man defenses, as well as its offensive 
movement, will be familiar sights to 
Notre Dame t:ms, as Oing's system 
incorporates much of her old boss's 
philosophy. 
Playing the post for the Cyclones will be center Tonya Burns. The 6-1 sophomore averages I 7 points and nine rebounds an outing. 
Despite this inside threat, though, the Cyclones look to keep the ball in the hands of their guards, senior Jolene Leseman and junior Jane McConnell. Both are dangerous outside shooters, while Leseman is also a good rebounder and defender. "It'll be interesting to see what they do," says DiStanislao. "We play similar systems, and we'll see if we 
can't stop something we do well." 
Both of the weekend games are 
very important for the Irish, who are 
looking to become the major Mid­
west team in the NCAA tournament. 
In order for this to happen, however, 
they have to beat the Midwestern 
opponents that are left on the 
schedule. Ifthey can do this, there is 
a distinct possibility of a rematch 
wit"! a UCLA or an Arizona State in 
the tournament. 

Restaurant and lounge 
Open Sunday to serve your favorite cocktails with live entertainment and dancing 
1516 N. Ironwood just east of campus Man-Sat 11am-1am Sun 4pm-12:30am 

The N.D. Student Union presents 
New Wave Night 
at the 
NAZZ 
Sat. Feb. 5 from 10:00 -? 
and stop by Friday too! 
9:00-10:30 Open Stage 10:30·? Stephanie Korcheck 
•• & •• .• Jim Burns •
. ...
• 




The Observer 
Friday, February 3, 1983 -page 12 



Forward Tim Kempton looks to go to the hoop in Wednesday's L{~\'alfe game. LouieSomoJ!.yiprofiles the o-9ji-os!J, u•bo basplayed like anytbig hut a freshman tbis se{/son, at right. (Pboto IJ)• Ed Carroll) 

• 

'• 

oesn' 
• 
And you'll appreciate the opportunity to see these projects to completion. 
In the long run we think you'll find that TRW offers 
an environment that brings out 
us ... 
Frosh power forward 
Kempton refined in fiery baptistn 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Spor/s Wriler 
The old man who had been tiJilowing Notre Dame basketball since the days when Ed "Moose" Krause hdped revolutionize the game with his dominating inside play closely watched the powerful much-ballvhooed freshman that night agait;st the Kentucky Wildcats. 
Earlv in the contest, the 6-9, 240­pound. frush challenged the taller and much more experienced center of the highly-ranked Wildcats. He made his move, shot . . . and promptly was rejected by Melvin Turpin. 
The man in the stands winced noticeably and bowed his head. Alas, the poor freshman had received a degrading initiation in his first really big college basketball game. Surely, his confidence must have been slut­tered. Becoming gun-shy and tentative would be the harvest of this baptbm by tire. 
Minutes later, however, the young man gets the ball back. lie makes his move on Turpin again without a trace of being intimidated and lays home two points. 
Like witnessing a revival from death, the. old man's face was now 
At TRW it's what we're all about We've created an environment encouraging people like you to 
define and go after your individual professional goals. So when you work with us, 
you'll get a personalized approach to your technical growth. An approach that includes . 
An informal atmosphere that 
encourages insightful thinking. Co-workers who value the free interchange of ideas. 
Responsive managers who look out for your advancement 
A broad spectrum of challenging projects to choose from -­
Projects ranging from large data base software systems, communications spacecraft and alternative energy sources, to sc1entif1c satellites, hi·gh energy lasers and microelectronics. 
the u n·iqueness in you. 
TRW will be on campus February 24 25 hiring graduates in most Engi­neering and Scientific disciplines at all degree levels. 
See your Placement Office for more information. 
College Relations TRW Electronics and Defense Bldg. R5/B196, Dept. One Space Park Redondo Beach, CA 90278 
Equal Opportun1ty Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
··~··· 
glowing with admiration. 
"lie's gonna be alright," he said turning to his companion." lie's gon­na turn out just tine." 
Considering that Kempton leads the team in field goal percentage (66 percent), rebounds (about six-a­game), free throws ( 7H ), and is second in scori;;g ( I 1..3 ), assists 
( 2.3) and free-throw percentage ( 'H percent), Notre Dame fans cannot disagree that Kempton has not at all lost face from that early facial against Kentucky. 
"It wasn't the first time that I got one of my shots blocked," recalls Kempton of that night against the Wildcats, "and it certainly hasn't been or won't be the last time either. I know people look at it as a big thing, but it's really nothing more than a missed shot. You just can't let something like that get to you." 
Such a confident and optimistic outlook epitomizes Kempton's character. A friendly outgoing per· son, Kempton accentuates the positive in just about anything. 
"Ifever a young person belongs at Notre Dame, it's Tim Kempton, bc­ctuse of his spirit, his enthusiasm, and his personality," stated Digger Phdps after learning of Kempton's intention to enrolL 
The spirit of Kempt,,n that Phelps 
~peaks of wa~ well seen in the :\1ar­
quette clash thi~ year. Bleeding 
through the nose t()r much of the 
second half with a fractured sinus 
that would cause him to miss the 
next two game~. he played on and 
helped lead a courageous rally in the 
final minute. 
The enthusiasm, meanwhile, is 
evident as he speaks of his early 
Notre Dame expenence -through 
thick and thin -as "super." 
"Just playing against the great 
ones like Turpin and Stuart Gray has 
built gives you contldence in that 
you know you can compete wirh 
them and their great teams. We have 
that contldence now and know that 
we can make the NCAA tournamenr 
if we concentrate all our energies on 
it" 
Those who have watched the 
Notre Dame-liCLA games know that 
Kempron didn't play against Gray. 
He dominated him. It is perfor­
mances likt: that along with his cur­
rent status of being in the select 
company ofAdrian Dantley and Kel­
ly Tripucka as the only freshman 
frontliners in :'\lotre Dame history to 
start in their rookie campaigns and 
have a scoring average in double 
tlgures thar lead such people as NBC's expert baskerball analyst AI McGuire to call him ""the rock upon · which future Notre Dame basketball will lay a foundation for a champion­
ship team." 
"It's a great compliment, especial­
ly coming from someone like 
McGuire," says Kempton, "But I see 
it as a challenge rather than 
pressure. We have a lot of other 
great young players, and great fresh­
man coming in next year so I don't 
feel pressurized. I will work my 
hardest, though, to live up to that 
challenge." 
For now, he likes talking about the 
challenge of the tlnal third of the 
season against the caliber ofopposi­
tion right about at Norre Dame's 
level in teams such as South 
Carolina, Fordham, North Carolina 
State, Pittsburgh, DePaul and 
Dayton. 
"Except for Davidson, we've won 
the games that we had to, and even 
though we've lost to the top teams, 
we know we can he very a very com­
petitive team. We really have to 
show what we can do now." 
On Wednesday night against 
LaSalle, Kempton sure did his part. 
His 1--1 poinb in the tlrst half from 
the inside opened up room t()r John 
Paxson to operate from the outside 
and to hold off the ~crappy Explorer 
team. 
Once again he made the old man 
in the ~land~ true to ltis word ofhow 
"he's gonna he just tine." It wa~n·t 
the tir~l time he'' proven it 
.\nd one c.tn 'ery nmlidentlv 
predict thJt it won't he the la~t tiine 
l'lthcr. 
IU wins, ties Minnesota atop Big Ten 
BLOOMINGTON. Ind. (AP) ­Ted Kitchel scored 29 points, Randy Wittman added 20 to provide outside punch and l"we Blab delivered the knockout from inside last night as sixth-ranked Indiana beat Wisconsin H.)--,.3 in Big Ten Conference basketbalL 
The Hoosiers trailed Wisconsin by eight points, --1+.36. early in the second half Kitchel, the Big Ten's leading scorer, then started a 14­point Indiana surge that broke the game open. 
Jim Thomas hit two straight bas­kets, Blab scored twice on rebound shots and Kitchel and Thomas hit agJin for a 50-44 lead before the Badgers' Cory Blackwell ended the scoring spurt. 


ByJANE HEALEY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team travels to Oxford, Ohio this weekend to battle the Redskins of Miami ofOhio. 
Three weekends ago, the Irish split a series with the Redskins at the ACC, 4-6 and 9-6. 
Since that Saturday night victory, the Irish are 3-1-1 sparked by new agressiveness and inspiration. 
The reason for the momentum might have something to do with the decision of the athletic administra­tion to downgrade the hockey program. 
"That Saturday was the night the parents met With the administra­tion," Coach Lefty Smith said. "The decision has really unified the purpose of the entire club. They have real good reasons and motives to win." 
Senior Rex Bellomy, who had 2 goals and an assist in last weekend's sweep over Western Michigan noticed the new spirit of the team. 
"I definitely have noticed a change," he said. "I think it's a com­bination of the team pulling closer together and the fact that we now have to make it to the playoffs to prove something to the administra­tion." 
The recent success of the Irish is nice, but it is especially pleasing be­cause it has lifted them but of the basement in the CCHA standings. Notre Dame, 8-1 7-1, is now in eighth place, only 4 points behind the Redskins, who dropped a series to Ohio State last weekend. 
The Irish not only have the psy­chological advantage over Miami, they are also bettered prepared this weekend as to the style and strategies of the Redskins. 
"They were not conservative like we expected last series," Smith said. "This year there is a different look to them. They have more quickness 
· and stronger forechecking." 
Because to the change in Miami's attack, Smith had to make adjust­ments and improvements. 
"Last time our defense had a bad weekend," said Smith. "We didn't handle the rush and we couldn't handle the stand at the blue line. We had to. rely too much on McNamara." 
Captain John Higgins of the Irish summed up the Redskin outlook. 
"They're a sound hockey team," he said. "They're well coached and well disciplined. We have to play more defensive minded." 
In the offensive attack, the Irish could only hope for history to repeat itself. It was in that Saturday victory 
-that senior Kirt Bjork scored a record-setting seven points includ­ing the quickest hat trick in Irish his­tory. Bjork presently is fifth in the CCHA scoring race with 42 ponts. Brent Chapman, 31 points, and Hig­gins, 27 points skat with Bjork on the 
Purdue wins despite loss of Cross 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) ­An injury to Russell Cross, Purdue's leading scorer and rebounder, gave the Boilermakers a challenge they overcame in defeating Northwes­tern 67-56 in BigTen college basket­balllast night. 
"I'm very proud of the way the players hung together, and it just proves that ifyou play team ball you can win," said Purdue coach Gene Keady. "The main thing about this team is that they find ways to win, and that makes me prouder than anything." 
Dan Palombizio scored a season­high 19 points to lead Purdue. 
first Irish line. The three are the top 3 Irish scorers and have been responsible for 23 of Notre Dame's last 3 3 goals. 
"All four lines are playing up to full capacity," Smith said. "The way Bianchi: Deasey, and DeVoe came on last weekend is especially pleas­ing." 
It was Deasey's line tha got the winning goals both nights against Western Michigan. 
The efforts of all the lines will be necessary for the Irish to sweep Miami and vault into sixth place in the standings. Hopefully the new team unity and motivation will help the Irish achieve that goal. 
"We're playing a lot more 
Sean Regan (6) breaks up Western Michigan's playoff position. In today's Observer, Chris
agressive," Bellomy said. "We talk 
play in front ofthe net in a game last weekend. Needles and Craig Chval commenton theAthletic
before the game and really get to­
This weekend, the doomed team travels to Oxford, Department's decision, andjane Healeypreviews
gether." 
Ohio, to play Miami as it seeks to solidify its the upcoming series. (Photo by Paul Cifarelli) 

AEROBIC EXERCISE CLASSES 
Cindy BrQsseur, Instructor 
Mondays-Wednesdays 9:30am Mondays-Wednesdays 9:30am Tuesdays-Thursdays 5:45pm 
starting Feb. 7 & 8  1717 E. South Bend Ave.  
$24 for 12 classes  South Bend, IN  
277-2990  


r -.:;;;;p-;;;;;r;~-.·-l ~ "ow atiRISH CiARDE"S: ~ 
l ~
Flowers and Plants':\tlore 
~ Reminder• Valentine's Day ~ ~ Order "ow to guarentee _roses ~ i SAY I • U WITH FLOWERS ~ 
i . i 
L~..!!.!.t;.!9.;.~!9-.~ftf~~.!~~~~!--J 
HOURS: 9P.M.-10 P.M.-MON.-THURS. 9 P.M.-11 P.M.-FRIDAY' 
= -
SATURDAY
.. 
LABAHS
&El.DI,Ll~ 
1099~ 
CUE 0~ U tillS 
PHILADEPHIA BLEND' 11 um TEN HIGH BOURBON' 11 um CLAN MACGREGOR SCOTCH,'""" 
CASTillO RUM, '""" CALVERT GIN,.,""' lORD CALVERT WHISKEY, 11um SEAGRAM'S 7 CROWN 1 11 um JACK DANIELS WHISKEY Jlo "' MACKINTOSH SCOTCH 1 11 "'" 
CANAOIAN ClUB WHISKEY 110 "' SMIRNOFF VODKA 110 "' BOODLE'S GIN'""' 
JAMESON IRISH WHISKEY'""' GlENFIDDICH SCOTCH 110 "' SOUTHERN COMFORT'""' 
~ PABST
W BlUE RIIION ~-~ CASEOF 
Francesco's Italian Dining 
lA.C. C. 
Edison 
Original Southern Italian Home Cooking 'Everything is a' homemade' 
r 1636 N. Ironwood 
0 
n Ph. 277-6155 w 
0 -6566 D Deliveries Available 
d 
-
toND&SMC BEER AND WINE 
10% discount on dinners and any largfi! pizzas with coupon to ND &SMC students 

Francesco is a former chef of the Holy Cross Fathers 
for over21 years 
YOU'RE WASTING YOUR MONEY BUYING ANYWHERE 
ELSE 
SOUTH BEND AVE STORE ONLY 



'-----'" c!!s 
9" 
10" 10" 
9" 8" 
10" 10" 
7" 
10" 
6" 4" 7" 7" 15" 5" 

KINGS CEllAR VALUf VODKA OR GIN YO\JR CHOICE
399 499 799  
750 Ml. 1.0 liTER 1.75 liTER ~  


BUDWEISER 
CASE Of 24 
~"' 
729 
COORS 
~:11199 
USlOfl•tus 

Specializing in: Spaghetti a Ia Carbonara 
Melanzani-stuffeq eggplant 
Bracioli alia Calabrese­stuffed beef roll 
And a variety of pasta and sandwiches. 
Also featuring Francesco's Four 
Sea~a 
-: 
KEGS 
GENERIC  23.99  
MILLER  29.99  
MILLER LITE  31.99  
MICHELOB  34.99  
PABST  28.99  

CARLO ROSSI WINE""" 
QUARTS 
MILLER 8.99 BUD 8.99 
4" 
CHRISTIAN BROTHERS WINE 1, "'" 2" GERMAN liEBFRAUMilCH '" "' 2" ZEllER SCHWARZE KATZ·""' 3" CANE I WINES 11o "' 2" MARTINI & ROSSI ASTI SPUMANTE .,. "' 7" ZONIN ASTI SPUMANTI :.o "' 4" 
J. ROGEl SPUMANTE "' "' 2" 
TAHOR CHAMPAGNE'""' 4" CODORNIU "' "' 5" SORIA VERMOUTH'""' 1" 
COIDIALS AND IRANDIES DEKUYPU SCHNAPPS'""' 3" DEKUYPER flAVORED BRANOIES '" "' 4" DUCONTE CORDIALS 1 o"'" 4" AMARETTO '" "' 4" 
CHILA COffEE liQUEUR'""' 4" 
BAILEY'S IRISH CREAM 11o "' 10" I 
FRANGELICO,.. "' 
TRY A DELICIOUS 
NUTTY MONK .
g ··e
I SHOT FRUGELICO 2 SHOTS BAILEY'S 
\ ~ 
The Observer Friday, February 3, 1983-page 14 
CCihe cpQa"tg a"d C(}Qowettg ghop Roses $29.50doz. Carnations $12.00doz. 
Valentine Ivy Planters, -,.. great for gifts! Valentine Balloons 
Delivery Available FREE for SMC, .50 to LaFortune 
We Wire Flowers Anywhere 
Lemans Hall, SMC 284-4597 

PUTTING TOGETHER ABASKETBALLTEAM. START OFF WITH ACOUPLE OF TALL ONES. 
Red Auerbach 

MRYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED IN ABEER. AND LESS. 
early orders get first choice of colors 
By DEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track team com­petes in its first-ever Midwestern City Conference meet tonight at 
7:30 in the ACC. Coming off a ster­ling performance in a six-team meet last friday, Irish CoachJoe Piane has high expectations and a positive out­
look for his team. 
"We looked very good last week and established some badly needed confidence in ourselves," says Piane. "This will be our first compettion in the Midwestern City Conference so we naturally want to do well. I'm hoping the confidence will carry 
ND track enters MCC; hosts first meet tonight 
over. !fit does, we should be in pret­
ty good shape." 
The MCC contains nine teams, 
including Notre Dame. Oral Roberts 
and Butler should be the main com­
petition, but the rest of the con­
ference is not to be taken lightly. 
Oklahoma City, Evansville. Detroit, 
Loyola, Xavier, and St. Louis round 
out the field. 
"What it all boils down to is a two team meet," predicts Piane. "Oral Roberts has fine distance runners and quarter milers and some good jumpers. It'll be strength vs. strength." 
One of Oral Roberts' distance 
men is from Kenya and another is 
from finland. Butler is not par­
ticularly strong in any one area but is 
well-balanced. 
for the second straight meet, the Irish will be without the services of senior co-captain Jim Moyar, who has a foot problem. fortunately, the Irish are rich in distance and middle distance talent. Co-captain Steve Dziabis, EdJubaJim Tyler, Tim Can­non, and and other Irish all turned in clutch performances last friday and made Moyar's absence less of a bur­den. The distance events are impor­tant to a Notre Dame victory, as are the field events. These two areas are the strong points of both the Irish and Oral Roberts. 
Not only will Dziabis and Co. have to run well. but high jumper Chuck Constable. pole vaulter John Langdon, shot putter Todd Lezon. and "Mr. Everything" James Patter­son will also have to continue to per­form well. The key attribute of this year's team is versatilty. giving Piane the luxury ofslating certain athletes in several events. 
• • • Chval 
continuedfrom page 10 
they are -completely honest. 
Honesty obviously was not 
enough to save Notre Dame hockey, 
so Regan and the rest of the Irish 
lame-duck orphans are left to make 
the best ofwhat's left. 
Judging from last weekend's pair 
of wins over Western Michigan, 
their first sweep of the season, the 
Irish have apparently chosen to go 
out with a bang rather than a whim­
per. 
Saturday night. though. provided a perfect illustration of the program's woes. Despite Notre Dame's thrillng come-from-behind victory at Western the night before and the fact that it was the first home game since the program's burial, on­ly 2,000 were treated to an outstand­inggame. 
"Yeah. I had expected more. Reg admits. "But it made it easier for me. They had signed petitions in which they pladged full support to NO hockey and I expected more. The fans we get are great and I feel sorry for them." 
One person Regan doesn't feel sorry for is himself. 
"I haven't come to any definite conclusions about next year." he says. 'Til try to make the most of the change. But it's going to be hard to leave the people here. They're my friends, hut I figure I'd have to to do it ann~:ay. Thev're friend~ I made for life. 
"I just feel luckv to have had the opportunitY to play here for two years." 
You mav well feel ~orn· for Regan and the other Iri~h orphan~. but there is no need for concern over Regan as he stick handles through his uncertaintv with the ~arne poise and maturity he displav~ on iCe. 
Don't worn·-Sean Regan will be at the right place at the right time. The right place just won't be :\/otre Dame. 


Weekend 
Friday, February 3, 1983 -page 15 


~ior Bar This Saturday is 
I 
j
Strawberry Daquiri tlitcz 

l
' -1 
open 9:30 

A L A E S A R 
E E• 0 I I B E R T R A N 
0 R U S S E L L R A E.E M_ll L••• P 0 K E 
EN o•G I 0 E SIJ_~NIEn
1-AI.CUT 
A V I S 0 0 I R T H U E 
OAPHNEOUMAIR~ 
ELSE•BEBOP BELL N E 0 N..B 0 S N S I 0 E E 
1/4/83 
Blo.om County 
Campus 
Friday, Feb. 4 
• 
All Weekend-SMCJunior Moms Weekend 

•3:I5 
p.m. -Workshop, "The Quality of Working Life and the Role of the Union," Michael Maccoby, 33I O'Shaughnessy Hall 

•5:I5 
p.m. -Mass and Supper, Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry e; p.m. -Swimming, ND Women vs. DePaul, Rockne Memorial 


•"". 9:I5 and II:30 p.m. -Film, "Raider~ of the Lost Ark," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by NDSU, Sl 
•7:30 
p.m. -Track, ND Men vs. Indiana State, ACC Fieldhouse 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Autumn Sonato," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs. Loyola ofChicago, ACC 

•8 
p.m. -BCAF Alumni Forum, on athletic scholarships and career success, Library Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -Mardi Gras Talent Show, Chautal!qua Coffeehouse 

•9 
p.m.-NAZZ, Open Stage 

•I0:30 
p.m. -NAZZ, Stephanie Korchick andJim 


Borns ~alUrday, feb. 5 
•s 
a.m. -Test, Graduate Record Examination, Engineering Auditorium 

•I 
p.m. -I a.m. -Mardi Gras Danc-a-Thon, South Dining Hall 

•2 
p.m. -Swimming , ND Men vs. Toledo, Rockne Memorial 

•IO 
p.m. -NAZZ, "New Wave Night at the 


NAZZ," featuring: Propaganda Sunday, Feb. 6 
•2 
p.m. -Graduate Recital, Carrie Carlson, Violinist, Annenberg Auditorium 

• 
4 p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs. Iowa State. ACC 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting and Dinner, for Jewish stu­dents and faculty members, Wilson Commons ., p.m. -Forum, for the three candidates run­ning for Student Body President will each give 5 minute campaign statements, Memorial Library Auditorium 


•: p.m. -Rock in Retrospect, Jack Briganti, WSND-AM 6-t 
•Midnite-Alljazz Show, Nocturne Night Flight, WSND-FM 88.9 
The Far Side 
fiN[) EV£/fVCYVE , 
l:offRDWED /.D. ;:, • · 7 &:x;lf I I!()Nf)Eif WlfEfiE j£/'IKJRS «J 
011 mrotw Ni:JHT5••• 
The Daily Crossword 
All Rights Reserved 

I 
~ 
'-{{
., 
Harold would have been on his guard, but he thought the old gypsy woman was speaking figuratively. 
Thursday's Solution 
....__ 
I'P Ul'i. 10 FU\C£ AN A17 IN 'THE: CERTAINtY 
··ftR50NAL.S " 

!lEY/ /?!!EN' T YOU I/11'1YE/'1/L (llf~'S ? 
I 
Y£fiH.' I l)C;I(!fOWED I f/ 5ENIOR'J f./). 7D ;'
GET lti11£'R£. 
) 
Fate 


2/4/83 
Berke Breathed 
''SIN<i.£ Ml\l..f.., 29, 6'3'' 
ROBUST, 5TRAPPIN0 ; 
Sf£K5 F£MAI..f 
So 010 I.' 
HEY. WE'/f£ \
fR£jHfrl£/V,
TOO.' 
I 

) 
• 
46 Phys. and 
surg. 47 Travesty 49 Sherwood 
and Arden 
53 Keep one's -the grindstone 
55 Flying 
prefix 56 Fanatic 57 Netman 
Arthur 
58 Token pay­ment down under? 
61 "The bird ­
the wing" 62 A Gardner 63 Comedian 
Jack 64 Overtakes 65 Nostrada­
mus, e.g. 66 Tear apart 
DOWN 1 Blunder 2 Movie actor 
Richard 3 Water· proofed 4 Opposite 
of flow 5 Gives out 6 Throws 7 Afterboy 
or girl 8 Spaniards 9 Trojan king 
1 }»N'T KNOW. W!tliT lb Y(){!WltNT TO lb.' 
Photius 
10 Howling success in movies? 
11 lily plant 12 Longings 14 Wooded 18 Want 23 Nota­25 Incensed 26 N.C. school 28 Cream 30 Hurl 31 Minerals 32 Bristle 33 Wargod 34 Gabs about 
one's work 36 Soak 38 Indian 
babies 39 That 42 Aquatic 
bird 43 Drygulch 46 A Copper­
field 48 Hammer 
ends 49 Not so many 50 Plumber's 
wire 51 Shroud of­52 Charger 53 Fasten 54 Pelion's 
partner 55 Competent 59 Actress 
Mary 60 Distant 
ACROSS Be curious 5 "Beowulf," e.g. 9 Entreat 13 Street urchins 15 Flat-topped hill 
16 Annoy 
17 Shaky and .shady, as a business 
19 Partyto 
20 Charge for services 21 Rents 22 Moderates 24 Salad 
plants 26 Fragrant resin 

27 Unit of 
energy 28 Verve 29 Squad 
leader 32 Old Nick 35 Texas 
symbol 37 Q.E.D. word 38 Careful 
efforts 40 River into the Seine 
41 Video transmis· sion 
43 Mameand 
Polly 44 Invite 45 Early 
Ron Howard role 
:Cihe..Observer~================== 
--------F'"'~~~----~-----~-~----~----------------------~-~---~ --~­
Men's basketball 
Carolina a 'must' win for Irish 
Senior guardjohn Paxson was a one-man offense at the end of Wednesday night's win Ol'e LaSalle. Paxson, who was the player of the game in lastyear's South Carolina game, will lead the /;ish in Saturday's game against the 'Cocks. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
ByWILLHARE 
Sports Writer 
"A must win." 
Those yvere the simple words ut­
tered by Digger Phelps referring to 
tomorrow night's game with South 
Carolina at the ACC. 
While Notre Dame, 11-7, has suf­fered four defeats in its five road contests, it has put together an eight­game winning streak in the friendly confines. Yet Phelps believes South Carolina could pose some problems for his young club, anyway. 
While the Gamecocks have not been in the Top 20 this year and they certainly do not have the name ofan Indiana, Kentucky, or UCLA, a win over a fellow independent takes on significance because of its effect on Notre Dame's chances of receiving an NCAA tournament bid. "We really have got to get the students going Saturday night," says Phdp~. "South Carolina has had a lot of big wins this year." 
Though the Gamecocks were beaten at home by Florida State Wednesday night, South Carolina has won 1 0 ofits last 12 games and is 14-5 overall. The Gamecocks, along 
Women's basketball 
Midwest duo begins stretch drive 
By MIKE RICCARDI 
Sports Writer 
February is "money time" for col­lege basketball teams. 
It's the time of year when one must ignore previous setbacks and go about the business ofearning that tournament bid that one hasn't allowed himself to think about all season. 
For the Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team, "money time" begins this weekend, as a pair of Midwest opponents stand as the first 
obstacles in the Irish stretch drive we can win the rest our Midwest for an NCAA bid. games, we'll have 20 (wins), and Tonight, Loyola University of that should be good enough." Chicago comes into the ACC for a If the team is going to do this, 
7:30 game, while Sunday's op­however, it will have to have better ponent, Iowa State University, waits luck than it did when it traveled to in the wings for a 4 p.m. game. the West Coast last weekend, losing 
"You've got to look at it game by two games by large margins to game," says Coach Mary DiStanislao. nationally-ranked teams. 
of
"I try not to think about it (getting a The blowouts at the hands tournament bid). lfwe beat who we Arizona State and UCLA were the last have to beat, it will take care ofitself. things that DiStanislao's squad 
"It's important to heat the Mid­needed on the trip as a good west teams, because they're our direct competition (for berths). If See MIDWEST, page 11 with independents New Orleans ( 1 S-4 ), Marquette ( 14-4 ), and DePaul ( 13-6 ), will be Notre Dame's major competition for an NCAA bid. 
Included in those fourteen tri­umphs is a 67-63 win over Utah, a 

S9-S3 decision over Purdue, and most recently, an HS-"'!I upset of Southeastern Conference power Vanderbilt. The 'Cocks have also downed Idaho and Clemson in achieving their surprisingly lofty record. 
Jimmy Foster, a 6-8 junior center, leads South Carolina in both scoring ( 18 points per game) and rebound­ing (nine per game). He has been the key to the Gamecocks' success, top­ping the scoring list in 10 oftheir last II games (they won nine of those games). He also ranks among the na­tion's leaders in field goal percent­age, shooting over 66 percent. 
Foster and forward Brad Jergenson carried South Carolina in last year's 59-SS loss to the Irish, as Foster scored ten points and grabbed nine rebounds while Jer­genson tallied a career-high 19 points. 
Jergenson, a 6-H junior, is the second leading point man on the Gamecocks with a 9.3 scoring average. Jergenson along with junior 
Kenny Holmes add experience to 
the front line. 
Holmes, a 6-5 forward, is averag­
ing 8.8 points per game. He along 
with 6-7 Kevin Darmody, 6-IO 
Duane Kendall, and 7-0 Mike Brit­
tain add depth to the experienced 
frontline. 
The Gamecocks also play veterans in the backcourt. Senior Gerald Peacock will run the show for South Carolina. 
Peacock, a 6-0 playmaker, leads the club in assists with a 6.-average. He also had a game-high eight assists in last year's contest. 
Joining Peacock at guards are Harold Martin and Jimmy Haw­thorne, both averaging 6.9 points per game. Junior Scott Sanderson backs up Peacock at point guard. 
"You have to like what South Carolina is d6ing these: day~ " adds Phelps. "They came in with a veteran team with five starters back and they're getting a lot Qf mileage out of nine or ten people." 
South Carolina is also to be admired for keeping their com­posure during the absence of Head Coach Bill Foster. 
Foster, who coached Duke to a Final Four victory over Phelps' Irish in 1978, .suffered a heart attack following the Gamecocks' win over Purdue Dec. 11. Assistant Steve Steinwedel has taken over since that time, while Foster is recovering. 
"You hate to ~ someone with the ability of Bill Foster on the sideline, yet Steve· Steinwedel ob­viously has done a very capable job in taking over," states Phelps. "This _ is a game against a top-flight inde­pendent team that we need to win." 
With the students' support, that need will be easier fulfilled. 
IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame cracked the Sporting News Top 40 last week, entering at Number 37. That same poll included all ten ofthe Southeastern Conference's mem­bers. 
Hockey: Who~ to blame? 
It has been a week now since Athletic Director Gene Cor­rigan announced the University's decision to drop varsity hockey to club status. 
Since then, many fingers have been pointed, and many parties have been blamed. Some -like the women's basketball team -do not 
deserve it. Others. however, do. Here's who vou should blame for the death ofhockey: 1). Rev. Ed~und P.Joyce, C.S.C-Joyce is the executive 
.. 
vice president of the University. and is responsible for spend­ing the vast sums of money that pour in every year. He is also chairman ofthe Faculty Board in Control ofAthletics. ForJoyce, the latter job was supposed to have been a hobby. But it has turned into an obsession, so much so that he alone now dictates athletic department policy. The decision to drop a varsity sport is one normally reserved for the athletic director.or the Board ofTrustees. But it seems apparent that the choice to dump hockey wasJoyce's alone. Gene Corrigan's only involvement, from what we've been able to discern, was to be thrown to the wolves twice ­once before a group of angry parents and then in front of a probing press-_ to have to explainJoyce's decision. Which is a shame. Corrigan is a fine administrator who built a top-notch, 23-sport athletic program at the University ofVir­ginia. But at Notre Dame, he is but a figurehead. a "yes-man" to Joyce·~ whims. With a purely financial background, Joyce's sole interest is the bottom line; ofcourse, that's no secret. But it does raise a fundamental question: Is the purpose of sports to make mG.ley, or to promote the spirit of competition? Is sports a business or a game? 
Sure, hockey loses a lot of money -a reported S2S0,00(, last year. Of course, unlike football and men's basketball, hockey cannot support itself. If endowed, however, hockey could live a healthy life. 
-, And that brings up the SIO million question -where, oh where, bas the athletic endowmentgone? You know, the one 

Chris Needles 
Sports Editor 
that was created in 1980 to fund hockey and other minor sports. Now, we are told, it was created for all minor sports besides hockey. 
Meanwhile, a second swimming pool will be built, using some of the endowment money. But, somehow, there is no money for hockey. 
The duplicity is mind-boggling. 
Throughout its history, Notre Dame has always been able to raise funds for every cause imaginable -endowed chairs, a library, the Pasquerillas, an ugly chemistry building, etc. Cer­tainly, some sympathetic alumni would be able to endow the hockey program and keep it afloat. 
But Joyce put a stop to that, too, by forbidding the hockey parents from soliciting funds -S2 million was the figure tossed around -from NO alumni. 
So, in just three short years, Joyce has gotten his wish+-he has squeezed the life from the hockey program. His dastardly plan was ingenious: 
•First, 
Joyce gradually reduced the number of hockey scholarships by 20 percent, from 20 to 16. just imagine the football team -which has enough trouble winning these days anyway -cutting out 19 scholarships. The effect would be the same. The reduction in grants-in-aid are solely responsible for Notre Dame's 6-1 5-1 record this season. 

•After 
the failure ofthe "Breakaway" promotional program in 1980, the administration assumed that hockey was an un­marketable product. Hence, no attempts have been made to promute the team since. What Joyce and Co. fail to realize is 


that "Breakaway" was a terribly-disorganized, hastily-thrown­together campaign -a Principles of Marketing class could have done a better job. 
As any businessman will tell you, the key to marketing is the "four P's": product, place, price and promotion. The product's quality was drastically reduced by cutting scholarships. The place -the ACC ice arena -is a dump. with uncomfortable bleachers and terrible acoustics. Only this year did they lower student ticket prices to an affordable level ( sI ). Problem is, they didn't tell anyone. Promotion' It's non-existant. 
• And now, when the hockey team needs money. Joyce has 
forbade them from raising it -at least from NO alumni. 
Gee, what a nice guy. 
2). Blame yourselves -Money is not the primary reason for hockey's demise; lack ofstudent support is. Corrigan even said last Thursday that they could have lived with the financial losses if there was any student interest in the team. However, only about 300 students bother to show up every game. 
This is the f.elf-proclaimed 'No. I Student Body in the Country?" The same people that leave the student section half-empty at basketball games, and virtually ignore every other sport on campus besides footba!P 
No. 1? Not even close. 
I mean, with hockey, what more could you ask for? The home games are Friday and Saturday at "':30 -or, by NO al­coholism standards, between the happy hours and the keg parties. Tickets are just Sl. What else is going on at NO at that time (besides more drinking)' 
It is an odd, but unfortunate, combination that has killed 
hockey -a priest that should be compassionate is instead 
insensitive, while a previously sportsminded student body is 
now suddenly disinterested. 
What sticks in my mind as we make hockey's funeral ar­rangements is a quote by Fr. Joyce first stated at a 1954 NCAA convention and repeated countless times since. 
It goes: "Money bas nevergoz,erned the policies ofourath­letic program. " Today, that statement, as it was in l9S4, remains a lie. 
i/ 


