
--~------------~-------­
... 
• • • Dougherty -page 14 
Off-campus housing information available 
By MIKE WILKINS An open house has been planned Senior StaffReporter to give students more information about moving off-campus. Landlords 
Student Body President Lloyd from local aparJ:ment complexes, Burke has planned a strategy of including Campus View and Turtle "Hooding the campus with as much Creek apartments, will be available information as possible," to answer to answer students' questions, as questions students have about off­will owners of houses available for campus housng. student rental. 
Burke and his lame duck ad­Arrangements are also being ministration have produced several made with Notre Dame Legal ideas to inform students about the Services to provide students with in­advantages and disadvantages ofoff­formation about leases and with the campus housing. The information is South Bend Police Depanment t.o being collected to help students answer questions about off-campus make a decision about moving off­crime. campus because of the possibility of The on-campus housing shonage an on-campus housing problem next is not only causing people to con­year. sider moving off-campus, but may 

"If some people knew about the cause problems within the dorms luxuries of living off-campus, they next year, according ro might decide to move off," said Burke."There'.s a good possibility Burke, himself an off-campus resi­that every available bed on campus 
Colorful floats move through u sea ofrevelers .Tuesday for tbe annual Mardi Gras celebration. dent. "There is a need for a lot ofstu­will be filled," he commented. "This jamming the streets in downtown New Orleans (APPboto). dents to move off-campus." may force dorms to abandon some 
Student Government is putting of their available social and study together an off-campus housing space to make room for the over­pamphlet ro distribute to students crowded conditions."
ALSAC lecture 

who have questions about moving "I want to prevent a lottery ifat all off-campus. Student Union Housing possible," Burke said. "I think that Coordinator Jorge Valencia has dis­the only way to do that is to con­
Hesburgh praises liberal arts 
tributed university booklets on off­vince people right now to move off­
campus housing to the Hall campus. If enough people don't By DAN MCCULLOUGH tht>se back into the general cur­growing preeminence of scientific Presidents Council so they can move off-campus, we could have big StaffReporter riculum. Notre Dame attempts to of­method as a possible cause for the provide interested students in problems." 
fer every student the opportunity to decline. "The time has come for a dorms with more information. In ad­"Right now we're in a vocational pursue these ideas inside as well as change. Scientific method is fine for d~tion, Ray Weiss, student govern­Burke noted that not everybody 
trend," Father Theodore He1>burgh outside of the classroom. science and technology. It has in­ment director oi information, wrote can handle the added responsibility said last night. "Many regard' educa­"Small minds grow at confronting novated our world but it has also a letter to off-campus students ask­of living off-campus. "We have to tion as something that gets us a job, large minds, and the mind, like the given us the spectre of a value-free ing them to return to their old make sure that people who can't but if that's all there is to it, then muscle, needs exercise to grow," dorms and talk to students about off­handle living off-campus don't get education is a pretty poor buiness." said Hesburgh to the audience See HESBl.IRGH, page 6 campus living. pushed off in a lottery." 
In his lecture entitled "The Value gathered at the Snite's Annenberg of a Liberal Education," Hesburgh Auditorium. "Literature engages------------------------------------------------· stressed the imponance of learning h,uman experience to live a to be a human being and a person as thousand lives and learn from every Committee needed well as how to perform specified one ofthem. h humanly enlarges the tasks. "Adding the word 'liberal' to mind." He stressed that the well­'education' greatly enhances the rounded student should learn to do 


Alcohol abuse problem noted 

definition," he said. He went on to specific tasks well from "how to do say that every student at Notre it" courses, but should not allow Dame is required to take some these facts to be the sum ofhis or her ByAMY STEPHAN Alumni-Senior Bar. mittee is set up, it will not be "in the 

liberal arts courses in order to life. He maintained that the rut of News Staff Roemer said that he would, immediate future." become more well-rounded. this type of learning will build high­"encourage very much a group of O'Meara said that some of the 
Hesburgh spoke of specific issues er and higher walls around the mind, "Friday night." To many Notre wise, prudent and experienced things in the PACE rcpon "will not which a liberal education should and make it increasingly more dif­Dame students these two words sig­people," but that "for me to get the be enacted until it goes through the cause the individual to consider, ticult to break through them. nal timq to relax, have a beer, have committee going I think would be works, so to speak. Whether or not such as love and hate, rc;~son and One of the specific qualities that another beer, or two, or three. And somewhat inappropriate." He feels such a committee will be set up is faith, and good and evil. He weur on the liberal education develops ·is the every Friday night -as well as other the committee should take a disin­still under consideration." to comment that "how to do it" sub· ability to think clearly in order to days of the week ~ there are stu­terested look at the problem and If such a committee is to be es­jects do not raise these is1>ues. In express oneself more clearly. Hes­dents who don't stop at just a few. that he might endanger the tablished, O'Meara plans to meet recent years, higher education h·~s burgh denounced "multiple-choice 
autonomy ofthe committee. with some student representatives ignored the disciplines, such as · mania" which prevents one from Dean of the Law School David to discuss who might be on the com­
philosophy and theology, which al­learning to write well by asking only Link, who was instrumental in mittee. low students to follow up these for "chcckmarks on a test". Hes­researching this section ofthe PACE --------------­questions and it is imperative to put hurgh also mentioned that liberal report, stated "I think the right kind 
studies give the individual the ability ofcommittee -including some stu­'... too much time to evaluate, which is one of the Alcohol use and abuse among col­dent representatives -would beef­
is spent on debating 
qualities most lacking in students lege students has been an issue of fective." today. "There is no way to think much concern across the country, Link envisions an action how extensive the clearly with means and no ends," he according to The Wall Street jour­committee which would recom­noted, "and without the sense of nal. Despite many attempts to con­mend specific programs. He said, "I problem is. .. , value that this quality teaches, the trol the problem, "few believe they think too much time is spent on brightest mind can be the greatest have made any substantial progress debating how extensive the Peggy Cronin, alcohol and drug menace:· encouraging moderation." problem is. It seems to me it does 
counselor at the Counseling and The most significant quality that The PACE report addressed the not matter what the numbers arc. If 
Psychological Services Center, said liberal education offers, Hesburgh problem by recommending that there are only three people on that, "the only way the committee 
stressed, is a combination of all the "the Provost. ·with the approval of campus with alcohol-related will work ·is if there are many stu­others. "It is the elusive quality the President, appoint a committee problems these problems still dents on it...that .way students.will called learning how to situate your-,. of administrators, faculty, rectors demand attention." stand behind their (the commi1:­
self," he stated. "To be at peace and students to draw up a public While it is important to make a tee's) ide~" . inside, undisturbed, accepting of comment on responsible drinking." statement, problems cannot wait for 
Cronin noted that many students what oneis and still being able to be According to]arne~ Roemer, Dean a statement, according to Student 
are cuncerned about the alcohol superbly and broadly human." of Students, such a committee Body President Lloyd Burke. He 
problem. She stated, "Awareness (of Addressing the problems that would look at alcohol related hopes to enact some programs ti•t· alcohol problem) has incre~ed. liberal education faces in the future, problems in all areas of campus. rather than, "postponing examining 
Peoplt-are not ignoring it." Cronin Hesburgh commented on the recent Roemer envisions a committee the issue while waiting for a state­
feels tha. the alcohol-relatd deaths slipping from the former role of which will review policies concern­ment to be drawn up." 
earlier this year may have opened liberal education in institutes of ing alcohol use in dorms, off­However, Provost Timothy 
people's ~yes and made them realize higher learning. He pointed to the campus, on Green field, and at O'Meara stated that if such a com-
there is a problem. 



News Brief§· 
By The Obsen,er and The Associated Press 
Private colleges and universities .have reason to believe that a greater number offreshmen will he attend­ing their institutions next fall, despite the fact that the average first­year class is smaller this year than in some previous years, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education. A far different pattern is reported at public institutions where enrollment rose slightly last fall but data on freshman applicants for this year indicates a drop compared to last year at this time. Enrollment at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for this year's freshmen class is relatively unchanged. ­
The Obsen,er. 
Mickey Rooney, who has never won an Academy Award despite four nominations, will receive an honorary Oscar this year in recognition of a half-century of "versatility." The Oscar will be presented to the 62-year-old actor at the fity-fifth Academy Awards on April 11. Rooney, who began his show-business career at the age of two as a member of his parents' vaudeville act, was honored with a special miniature trophy in 1938 for "setting a high standard of ability in achievement" as a child actor. He was nominated for Oscars for the movies, "Babes in Arms" ( 1939 ), "The Human Comedy" ( 1943 ), "The Bold and The Brave" ( 1956) and "The Black Stallion" ( 1979 ). -AP 
Police are looking for a 39-year-otd man who at­tegedty drove his car repeatedly at actor Herve Villechaize, who plays Tattoo on ABC-TV's ''Fantasy Island." The man, who was ac­quainted with Villechaize, drove off Tuesday afternoon after the ac­tor fired a gun into the air eight times, police said. No one was injured, Officer K. Marcum of the Foothill Division said yesterday. She said the two men got into an argument while discussing business at the actor's home. Villechaize, 39, told officers that as the man left with a female friend, he twice acclerated his car toward Villechaize and the actor had to jump out of the way to avoid being hit. Villec­haize pulled a pistol from his waistband and fired over the vehicle, Ms. Marcum said. Police are seeking the man for questioning. -AP 
Joan Kennedysays Sen. Edward Kennedy is "still one of my favorite people," and she will not ask the Roman Catholic Church for an annulment of her marriage. The Boston Herald yesterday reported that Mrs. Kennedy would give no reason for her decision. "It's a very personal matter," she said. -AP 
Twelve candidates will compete for six vacancies on the board ofdirectors ofthe American Society ofNewspaper Editors, it was announced yesterday. The election will be held at the society's annual convention in Dever in May. The nominees were selected by the society's nominations committee, under the leader­ship ofchairman Richard Leonard, editor ofTheMilwaukeejournal. The first five finishers in the balloting will be awarded full three-year directorships, and the candidate finishing sixth will receive a two­year term. -AP 
Police rounded up thirty suspects for 
questioning yesterday after Mafia gunmen killed two drug and cigarette trafficers. Two gunmen wearing police uniforms shot Fran­cesco Lo Nigro Tuesday night at his home in the presence of his 
15-year-old daughter, and Giovanni Benfante was gunned down as he left home for a Mardi Gras party. Both men had cr-iminal records. Gang warfare for control ofPalermo's heroin trade and other rackets has taken nine lives this year and more than 130 in 19112. -AP 
Three stolen sixteenth century firearms that were appraised as "priceless" were recovered with the arrests of three men in the suburban town ofTonawanda, New York, located outside Buffalo, District Attorney Richard). Arcara said yesterday. Arcara said the antique weapons were among about 50 stolen in January from a collection owned by Sylvia M.B. "Mullen of Castle Rock, Colo. The guns were recovered Tuesday after an undercover investigation in which the guns were offered for sale to police for 
SIB,OOO apiece, he said. He said the guns were made by Germanic craftsmen and bore ornate designs of ivory, bpne, and mother-of­pearl. -AP 
Fog clearing by afternoon with highs in tow to mid 40s. Partly cloudy and colder tonight and Friday. Lows in mid 20s. Highs in low 30s. -AP 
Thursday, February 1 7, 1983 -page 2 

A look at our junk mail 
Newspapers get a lot of junk mail. Most of it is good 

for very little. I don't think there's anybody in this office 
interested in a newsletter called "The Saudi Report." In 
fact, there's probably no one on campus interested in it. 
But every once in a while, there is some interesting rubbish among the piles of envelopes. This was just such a week. ' 
First, The Observer received a notice about the elec­tion ofAmerica's Miss Charm. Now there's a title adoles­cent girls across this great nation dream about. 
Melanie Churella is a sophomore at Michigan State, and must be pretty charming in her own right. I mean, this is a tough competition. Any heatHy cont · ·st that re­quires young ladies to have "a wonderful r,·rsonality," must he gruelling. Forget the fact that all it takes to en­ter is a self-adressed, stamped envelope. These are un­questionably the hig leagues. 
You could be Notre Dame's Miss Charm, if you can self-address and stamp an envelope. You might win "a lovely round crown" and "a Banner to wear." 
I can see the rush on the 

post oftke now. 
As far as I know. no Notre Dame woman has ever been America's Miss Charm. Ap­parently. though, that will change. As with all other competition, the University is out to make us No. I in 
charm. 
That, co-incidentally, brings us to the second interesting piece of junk mail. 
Every month, The Ob­
' \ 
'\.

server receives a notice lis­
ting research grants awarded. The whole list ap­peared in the South Bend Tribune Tuesday. 
This month, it was announced that five physics professors have been awarded a $22,000 grant from the National Science Foundation. They'll be conducting "research on charm and beauty lifetimes and spectros­copy." 
Now, I can understand an effort to make us the most charming and beautiful campus in America. We could become a minor league -cultivating generation after generation ofAmerica's Miss Charms. 
But where does the spectroscopy fit in? 

I'm no physics major. I have enough trouble with communication arts. So I have no idea what spectros­copy is. I asked some friends about it. 
One thought it had to be a great new way to "scope" all those charming, beautiful women. 
Another thought it was a laser-type device that made women charming and beautiful forever. That would certainly explain the "charm and beauty lifetime" line. 
Skip Desjardin 
~ports Editor Emeritus 
Inside Thursday 

A third suggested I look it up. So I did. 
spectroscopy n la: the production and investiga­tion ofspectra b: the art or process ofusing the spectra­scope 2: the science ofspectroscopic phenomena. 
Oh. 
After exhaustive research, I decided that five Notre Dame profs were getting paid to watch charming, beautiful women. That's what makes this school great. 
Ingenuity. Intelligence. Ability to fleece the govern­ment. 
Leave it to the physics department to think of it first. 
Though not as smooth a transition as the first, this brings us to the third piece of mail. 
Once again, The Observer has received a letter from God. 
No, really. 
He lives in Ohio, and he's mad. Not just at Notre Dame, either. He says he's mad at the whole world for being "heathens." 

We get letters from God 
every three months or so. I guess he's too busy to write more often. Somebody said he used to call us -but you can imagine what the long­distance bills got to be. So now we get letters. 
At the bulk mail rate. 
That's how we know God's mad at a lot ofpeople. His letter's have those little green stickers on them that bulk mail sometimes has. And the mysterious blue num­bers stamped on the hack of the envelopes. 
After poking through this week's mail, I've decided not to throw things away as quickly anymore. You just never know what you'll find. 
Your junk mail can teach you a great deal. 
I think our junk mail says a lot about this place. Just this week we discovered that Notre Dame is great at ripping off the government, but even God has to use stamps. 
Isn't that a charming thought? 


The Observer 


???????????????????????????????????? 
Are You Registered 
nesign Editor.... . ......... Tim N~dy fJe.•ignAssistant ... ................. Mary lleaty 

for the Draft? 
1)•pesel/ers .. .... Tom MacLennan At Novas 

Are You Concerned 
News Editor... ........ Kathlt-~n Doyle 
Cop)' Editor... . . ................ Beth t ta<:kett 

About the Possibility of 
Editorials Laroat. . ....... Tim Nedy Sports Copy Editor.... . ... .\like ~uttivan 

Being Drafted into the 
B&l J.ayuul Ale:'( .\'zill'as 
Nf) Day EdiWr... . .. Ann Bailey 

Military?
SMC Om· Editor.... . ....... Tari llrown Tvpist....... ...... Mary Bt·th Porter 

Do You Think You 
Ad Design . .............................. \\'ho Knows and Who Carc:s 

. Might Be A 
Pbotoxrapber ............. Paul Cifavdli (i uest Appearances .................... Itoops 
Conscientious 
Needles., Dierz, LaCroix, Dziedzic, 

Objector? 
and a cast of ten:ot 

Would You Like to Know What Being A Conscientious Objector Entails? 
If These Questions Are 
The Observer tUSPS 598 920) IS 

of Concern to You, 
publiShed Monday through Fnday and on home lootball Saturdays except 

Then You Should 
dunng exam and vacation penods The Observer IS published by tne students 

Inquire About 
of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col· lege Subscnpt1ons may be purchased 


Registration & 
for $25 per year i$.15 per seme~ler) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 


Draft Counseling 
Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 The Observer 1s a member of The 

at Campus Ministry 
Associated Press All reproduction nghts are reserved Second class postage pa1d at Notre 

Badin Hall***239-5242 
Dame Indiana 46556 

-------------------~--~--~------------~------­
-------------~---------------­
The Observer Thursday, February 17, 1983-page 3 


Four-Inember panel discusses lifestyles 

Weekend event 

Campus awaits junior parents 
Kathleen Rice, Saint Mary's Dean ofStudents; Kathleen Farrar, assistant director ofSaintMary's Counseling Center; Sr. john Miriam jones, Notre Dame assistant provost; and Kathleen Weigert, 
By THERESA GUARINO 
News Staff 
Dinner with Father Hesburgh, a 
cocktail dance, and academic 
workshops are a few events that 
many juniors can expect when their 
parents arrive for Junior Parents 
Weekend tomorrow. 
Approximately 3400 people are expected to participate in the 31st annual weekend which promises a few changes from last year's program. Optional activites are planned for Saturday afternoon, while last year the afternoon was left free for the students and their parents. The cocktail dance planned for Friday night is being moved off­
campus this year to the Century 
Center. 
Food for the's weekend is being provided by the Notre Dame food service. "The food service has done a rea t lly good job for us," said general Chairperson for the Weekend, Shari Terpin. "We used to have to go with a caterer out ofChicago." 
Also new this year is a photog­rapher who will take pictures throughout the weekend. Coupons for the photos will be in the registra­tion packets, which will also include a schedule and tickets for the ac­tivities. 
Registration will begin TThursday night from 7 to 10 p.m. in LaFortune. Students can sign-up with or with­out their parents. Registration con-
Fire in high-rise kills three 
WILMINGTON, N.C. (AP) -A fire that began near a baseboard heater yesterday spread smoke through parts of a high-rise for the elderly, killing three people and injuring 18 as firemen and neighbors returning from a prayer meeting rushed to evacuate r t esidems. 
Dozens of people fled in their nightclothes after the blaze erupted on the top floor of the 11-story Har­ry M. Solomon Towers. 
Flames were "leaping out of the window" when fire trucks arrived, said assistant fire chief C.E. Bland. The hallway on the eleventh floor was so hot that firefighters wearing protective clothing could stay only a few minutes. 
"To wake people up, we beat on the doors and kicked them, whatever we could do. Some of the people could hardly get to their doors," he said. 
assistant Director of the Center for Social Con­cerns discuss alternative lifestyles for women. The discussion was held last night in Walsh Hall. (Photo by Paul Cifarelli ). 
tinues Friday from 9a.m. to 9p.m. in Lafortune. From 9 to I2p.m., it will be moved to the C:entury Center at the cocktail dance. 
Saturday's activities include ser­veral academic workshops from 9:30-I2 p.m. with the colleges of Business Administration Engineer­ing, Arts and Leters, and Science par­ticipating. 
"Shenanigan's," billed as a "singing and dancing show choir," will be performing at I2:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. The history of Notre Dame football can be viewed at I and 2 p.m. when "Wake Up the Echoes" is shown in the Library Auditorium. At 2 p.m. the Notre Dame Jazz Band will perform in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. Registration will continue on Saturday from 9-I2 p.m. at 
Lafortune. 
Saturday afternoon's activites are 
optional and, therefore, are 
scheduled for students and parents 
to participate at their leisure. In ad­
dition to the planned events, the 
Snite Museum will be open Saturday 
afternoon starting at I:OOp.m. 
A special Mass celebrated by Fr. Hesburgh at 4:30 will complete the afternoon. After the Mass, shuttle buses will be available to take people to the ACC for the Presi­dent's Dinner, beginning at 7 p.m. 
Shuttles also will be available to 
0 • 
bring parents and students back for dorm receptions beginning at ap­proximately 10 p.m. 
Sunday's activity will be a closing breakfast at IO a.m. in the ACC. 
Planning for this year's weekend began in September. Junior Parents Weekend is organized by a commit­tee, headed by Terpin, and two ex­ecuive coordinators, Amy Seach and Gary Purk. Thirteen other members form committees for all aspects of the weekend. The Faculty Moderator is Fr. Mario Pedi, Assis­tant Directtor ofStudent Activites. 
Local hotels were contacted ast 
fall :md a«ked to hlock out room 
space for the parents' accomoda­
tions. Some provided discounts and 
a lottery was held for Morris Inn rooms. 
The cost for the weekend, includ­ing all activities, is S96.50 for each student and her or his parents. Addi­tional tickets for events can be purchased at registration. 
Terpin called this year's response "incredible." "We were very surprised at the number of people coming," she added. "It's much more then in years past." 
In addition, the number of stu­dents volunteering to help with the Weekend increased over last year. "I'd like to thank anyone who con­tributed in any way,"Terpin said. "They've been a tremendous help." 
PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH BEND AVE STORE ONLY 
899
ILOWENBRAU ....1 
By SONYA STINSON 
Senior StaffReporter 

Four women from the faculties of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ­each representing a different way of life -revealed some of the chal­lenges and choices they have had to face during a panel discussion on "Alternative Lifestyles of Women" last night in Walsh hall. 
The members of the panel were Saint Mary's Dean of Students Kath­leen Rice, Assistant Director ofSaint Mary's Counseling Center Kathleen Farrar, Notre Dame Assistant Provost Sister John Miriam Jones and Assistant Director of the Center for Social Concerns Kathleen Weigert. 
Weigert, who represented the married career woman with children, talked about her ex­periences in terms of "partnership, process and prayer." She is married to Andrew Weigert, professor and Chair ofthe Sociology department at Notre Dame. She discussed some of the dilemmas they faced in the early years of their life together, emphasizing that the strength of the relationship rested on a deep, mutual faith in God and a committ­ment to marriage as a partnership. 
Weigert said that a husband and wife go through a growth process during the marriage. She mentioned that two ofthe changes she had to go through were shedding the myth of the "superwoman" and recognizing the need for open communication between husband and wife. 
The Weigerts each have a strong attachment to the Catholic tradition. Mr. Weigert is a former Jesuit and Ms. Weigert spent two years in a convent before they met and married. Although they chose n~>t to pursue religious vocations, religion is still a central part of their lives, Weigert said. "The faith is what has kept us togeth­er through the years," she said. 
Jones talked about her decision to 
enter religious life and how the 
direction ofher life has evolved over 
the years. "When I was growing up, I 
very much wanted to be a doctor," 
she said, citing the difficulty that 
women who aspired to such a goal 
faced at that time. "But the Lord en­
tered my life and changed it com­
epletely," she continued. 
Explaining that she was more 
surprised than anyone else about 
her decision to become a sister, 
Jones talked about her early teach­
ing assignment, her graduate studies 
in science, and the path of events 
which eventually led her to Notre 
CLIP AND SAVE! 
IATUaDAY o•LY
2·11-U MILLER 

Q • v LIQUOR v.\)• CORDIALS AND BRANDIES. Q.vWINES •CHAMPAGNES 
KINGS CELLAR 
KALUHA 75UL ....................._. .8"
VODKA OR GIN 
AMARETTO Dl SARONNO 750 IL .... 11HYOUR CHOICE 

399 499 799 
~--~ BAILEY'S IRISH CREAM750ML 11: 
750 ML 1.0 LITEI 1.75 LITll ~ FRANGELICO500 IL ............. _8 .~ HIRAM WALKER H
7-CROWN 1.75 Ular . . . . 1 011 
PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS750 IL .4 
KESSLER'S 1.75 um ...... 9" 

IjI=~RAAN~::~!~~ ~~~~R_E~---·· 4•WINOSOR 
10.. 
CANADIAN 1.75 LITU .... . 
DUCONTE CORDIALSu una ........_4" 
SMIRN0Fh75 um .....10" 
BEAM 10.. 
BOURBON 1.11 una ..... . 
2 Liter 
CALVERT GIN 1.n una . _ .. 8" CASTILLO RUM wuru --9" 

.COKE-r. 
$1.19:t::J:~.:s~ru _,.....__10" 
CHRISTIAN 2" 
BROTHERSuum ···-·· 
~~:~~cunu ·····-·-·· .4" 
PAUL MASSON 1.s una .3" INGLENOOK 3" 
NAYALLE WINES u una 
LIEBFRAUMILCH 75UL .2" TAYLOR 411 
CHAMPAGNES7suL _... CINZANO 6"
ASTI SPUIIANTE 7NIIl _ 
Dame. In 1966, she came to work on 
her doctorate in Mi.crobiology after earning a master's degree here through summer sessions. She was here until 1970 and later returned "to be responsible for the begin­nings ofcoeducation at Notre Dame and to catalyze its going smoothly," she said. 
Jones also discussed the impor­tance of fove, close friendship and a sense of productivity in a person's life, whatever the path she or he chooses. She emphasized the capacity to make choices as an es­sential element for a successful life. 
"Unless you can do a lot of dif­ferent things and make choices as to how your life goes together, then I think maybe your life is not your own," she said. 
Farrar is now a single parent, but said she has had "a very checkered development" of lifestyles. "I have been a teacher, a wife, a full-time mother and homemaker, and a stu­dent. I am now a single parent, beginning a career again." 
Farrar said that when she gave up her teaching career after the birth of her first child, she experienced a void in her life. She returned to school in a search for something to fill that gap, and later decided that she wanted the experience of service that a full-time career provided. Two years ago, she returned to the workforce on a ful­ltime basis. 
"I like my new lifestyle, though I am still adjusting to it. I am learning a lot of new things about myself," she said. 
Rice is a single, never-married woman without children. "When I was ten, I knew I wanted to be single," she said. "But that was not a viable lifestyle then." Instead, young women from her working class, Irish Catholic background were supposed to work for a while in some practical field, and then either get married or become nuns, she ex­plained. 
"The motivation to become what I am was very strong," Rice said. She mentioned that some of the ad­vantages of being single include the ability to engage in hospitality with­out the restrictions that marriage and parenthood sometimes involve. She also said that single people are sometimes freer to be compas­sionate and to recognize the positive aspects ofsolitude. 
"When I was little, 'single blessed­
ness'  was  another  way  of saying  
'selfish',  and  that's  not  true," she  
said.  

DEPOSIT $10 KEG $45 TAP NO RENTAL FEE IF RETURNED WITHIN 5 DAYS 
QUARTS 
MILLER 8.99 BUD 9.29 STROHS 8.79 OLD 7-38 
MILWAUKEE 

' 
) 
-~ -~~-~-~~~-~-~--~~­
---~~~~~-~---~ 
~-----------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, February 17, 1983 -page 4 
Positive indicators 




Fed claims recession end 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Produc­
tion at the nation's factories and 
mines grew a hefty 0.9 percent in 
January and housing starts hy U.S. 
builders skyrocketed a record .35.9 
percent, the government said yes­
terday. The reports were quickly 
hailed by economists as strong sig­
nals the long recession is over. 
At the same time, federal Reserve 
Board Chairman Paul Volcker 
promised Congres~ to try to boost 
the nation's money flow enough to 
help the recovery blossom without 
rekindling intlation. 
The increase in industrial produc­
tion, only the second since July, was 
fueled in large part by a boost in the 
output ofcars and defense and space 
equipment, the Fed said in its report. 
December's output was revised up­
ward to a small 0. l percent increase. 
In the second report, the Com­merce Department said total new home construction last month reached its highest level since 1979. Housing starts in January were ur>96 percent from the same month one 
year earlier. 

Press conference 

Reagan proposes aid ctnd credits 
Father john Lahev, C.S.C. discusses the pressing contemporary issues which the new canon law covers. The Thomas More Socie~v WASHLNGTON(AP)-President sponsored the lecture held last night. (Photo by Paul Cijare/li). Reagan met with congressional 
groups yesterday over his proposals for tuition tax credits and aid to Caribbean nations, then readied himself for a nationally broadcast

Save $1001month -Check into the 
news conference in prime time. Questions over a budding,


Notre Dame Ave. Apts. 
multimillion-dollar jobs program, a burgeoning dispute over environ­


Newly Furnished! 
mental protection ent(Jrcement, the Mideast and arms control were like· ly to dominate the 8 p.m. EST session 

For the 1983-84 school year 
$390 or $360 a month for 9 month lease 
in the East Room, Reagan's sixtenth formal meeting with reporters.

Plus Electric (Approx. $55/month) 
Earlier  in  the  day,  Reagan  
summoned  Republican  and  
Democratic  congressional  leaders  
to  the  White  !louse  to  discuss  

reintroduction of his Caribbean Basin Initiative, a program of direct aid and tax legislation intended to encourage development of the na­tions of Central America and the Caribbean. 
The measure was approved by the House and by the Senate finance Committee last year but the full Senate did not vote on it. 
Reagan's proposal to allow parents of children in private schools to recdvc a tax credit for some tuition costs is also being reintroduced after failing last year. 
Under a bill approved by the Senate Finance Committee last Sep­tember, which later died in the Senate, families with incomes below S40,000 a year would receive tax credits of up to $300 for private school tuition by 1985. Reagan had proposed a maximum credit of $500. 
Semester Leases Available 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia 
(AP)-A government investigation 
has declared the word "hunky" is an 
ethnic slur, but says no law prevents Bill Konyk from running a chain of flunky Hill's Perogie Restaurants. 


Konyk's opponents, led by the the Ukrainian Canadian Professional and 
Ca/1234-6647 for more info. 
The Student Union Presents: 
Business Association of Vancouver, are in court trying to keep him from spreading what they see as an insult to Ukrainians. Hut Konyk is busily



JIMMY CLIFF 
Treasury Secretary Donald Regan 
described the January gain in in­
dustrial production as "another im­
portant signal that recovery is in 
progress." 

"It's the first clear indication the 
economy is starting to move up," 
said Robert Ortner, chiefeconomist 
for the Commerce Department. 
Allen Sinai, senior economist at 
the consulting firm of Data 
Resources Inc. in Lexington, Mass., 
said, "We are already in the early 
stages ofa recovery." The recession, 
he said, ended in November. It 
began in July l9H l. 
But Michael Evans, chief economist here ti>r McMahan, Brat: man, Morgan & co., cautioned against getting "too excited" about the prospects ti>r a strong pickup in the economy. "The numbers arc not 
enough li>r me to say it's going to be more than an anemic recovery." 
Volcker, appearing before the Senate Banking Committee, said the l'ed's Open Market Committee ex· pects a much more modest rebound than those that have followed other 
Conveniently located near 
'Hunky' unacceptable 

N.D. I Laundry I Bars Newly Hired Security 

Ukrainians cite ethnic slur 
laying plans to push his fastfood franchises into the United States and to market a llunky Bill's Little Pcrogie Maker. 
"If this decision stands, then it's open season on ethnic slurs and ra­cial slurs," says Mir I. I-luculak, past president of the association. "We realize there's such a thing as freedom of speech, but how far do you go?" 
Konyk, son of a Ukrainian father 
THE MIDSHIPMEN & CADETS OF NOTRE DAME 
PRESENT 
The Tri-Military Ball 
AN EVENING OF DANCE 
Friday, February 25 ACC Monoqram Room 
GET YOUR TICKETS NOW AT THE ROTC BUILDING. 


~~ UJllJ-{~9~ 
Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom Thurs. Feb. 17 7, 9 and 11 $1.00 







EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY l HOURS EVERY DAY 
~ 
" ,Norbertlne Fathers & Brothers% \\' c offer the OJ>JXlrtunlty for Teaching 
and Pastoral Ministry with life In community. 
We are men seeking God through 
t shared life t shared prayer t shared ministry 
ThJ§ h our eballenge: 
For tnon.~ lnfonnatloh wrttc fH: Rev. Gene Gries, O.Praem. Vocation Director St. Norbert Abbey De Pere, Wisconsin Mill\ 
~UlllC .-\clclrcss Cit)· State Zip 
.-\~otc Completed 111~-th School Colle~otc 
post-World War li recessions. Its forecast is for an economic ex­pansion at the rate of .3. 5 percent to 
4.5 percent from the fourth quarter of l9H2 to the final quarter of 198.3. The economy contracted 1.2 per­cent last year. 
The Fed also expects unemploy­ment t .o average 9.9 percent to I0.4 percent of the labor force by the fourth quarter. It was l 0.5 percent in the last three months of 1982. 
Volckcr, whose agency controls the nation's money supply, told banking committee members that it would not be wise to try to spark a faster recovery through a tlood of new money. That, he said, would risk reigniting intlation. which is now running at a modest pace. 
lie indicated the Fed will slightly expand its previously stated targets ti:>r monetary growth. But he added that, after allowances arc made for shifts into new types of bank ac­counts, "money, in its various defini­tions, should grow less this year than last." 
and a German mother, says that ifhe is forced to drop "I-Iunky Bill's" as the name of his restaurants, "It would be like a Big Brother society." 
In a live-day hearing last summer behJre a one-person board ofinquiry set up by the British Columbia Human Rights Branch, witnesses said the word "hunky," -akin to "bohunk" -was used to disparage eastern European immigrants on the Western Canadian prairies, especial­ly pcopk from the Ukraine, now in the Soviet Union. · 
There are about 500,000 Ukrainian-Canadians, ofwhom an es­timated '!0,000 live in the Van­couver area. 
Zenon Pohorecky, a specialist in Ukrainian heritage at the University of Saskatchewan, testified that "hunky" was supposed to suggest a roughneck, or a stupid lout. 
In recent years, the term has al­most disappeared, hut the witnesses said it has not lost its power to resur­rect their childhood memories of degradation and insult. 
Dcrmod Owen-Flood, the attor­ney who conducted the inquiry, ruled that "hunky" was an ethnic slur but that the province's Human Rights Code does not prohibit the use ofsuch terms if there is no intent to discriminate against the people being slurred. 
"As Alice in Wonderland puts it, words mean exactly what the speaker intends, nothing more and nothing less," Owen-Flood wrote in his ruling. 
That position may be a misreading of Alice's views in the Lewis Carroll work. But more to the point, Konyk's opponents hope to per­suade the province's Supreme Court that Owen-Flood was mistaken in his interpretation of the law. A decision is not expected for several months. 
., 

The Observer Thursday, February 1 7, 1983 page 5 

Burke reflects on his term as SB president 
By CAROL CAMP 
Copy Editor 
Because "we can't affect the long­range planning of this University," Student Body President Lloyd Burke's administration has em­phasized the completion of several small projects designed to imple­ment short-term improvements in the quality ofstudent life. 
Burke, reflecting upon his ad­ministration's efforts during the past year, expressed his view that the adoption of a "realistic approach" was the most effective strategy. He commented, "By using a realistic ap­proach, we affected some of the things that we thought we could have an impact on." 
When asked to detail the major ac­complishments of his administra­tion, Burke mentioned the creation of the Job Bank, the initiation of Lil Sibs weekend. the revival of Opera­tion Brainstorm, and working more closely with the Student Union. 
Documenting his pension for suc­cessfully completing short-term projects, Burke cited the extension of bookstore business hours to seven p.m. during the first two class days this semester. Similar short­term goals include finishing the floor in Stepan Center, continuing to investigate the feasibility of cable television on campus, and reviewing a report on alternative on-campus locations for the Placement Bureau. 
Although he feels that many ofthe short-term goals which he and Vice President Yonchak established at the beginning of their tenure have been accomplished, Burke ack­nowledged that his term began slowly, and that "the transition went poorly." He also observed that the "Save the Buses" campaign "wasn't the wisest thing I've done." In order to compensate for the manner in which his term began, Burke vowed that "this year's lame-duck session will be a busy one." 
Upcoming projects include improving the book exchange program, preparing comments and reactions to the PACE report, and sponsoring a program which will ex­
amine the role of the two-career family in society today. This program will consist of discussions and presentations, and will be held March 1 through 3. Student govern­ment cabinet members Anne Moore, Nina DeLeone, and Annie Chapski are coordinating the program, and student government is subsidizing the presentation with a $4,000 al­location. When asked what his role in the transition process will be, Burke 
said, "I hope to be able to hdp Brian (Callaghan) by explaining where things are, by telling him things that went right or wrong, and by making some suggestions. However, I don't want him to feel bound to the way we did things this year. Probably the biggest thing I'm giving him is a big­ger voice in the budgetary process -student government only con­trols $210,000, and if we do it ef­fectively, we'll have a good year in 
student government." 
In brief, Burke summarized his tenure by saying that "things have picked up tremendously this semes­ter, and we've been more able to act upon what was 13lanned at the begin­ning ofthe year." 
Finally, Burke reiterated his belief that the primary goal of student government should not be one of "chasing windmills;" rather, the em­phasis should be upon "controlling short-term improvements, and doing small things for people." 


..$ 


Business networks lead to more job contacts 
By MARY PAT GOLDEN their's is an informal network ­News Staff contacts made over a golfgame or in the men's room." 
"Women's business networks are While men have always learned to the new wave of the 80's," said compete on a group to group basis, Kathy Farrar, Assistant Director and for instance in team sports, women Coordinator of Placement Services have always competed on an in­at Saint Mary's. dividual basis. 
A network is a group of contacts, "Girls grow up distrusting other friends and supporters who provide girls," Farrar said. "Women must information, job leads and advice to learn to band together. Over 48/ of one another. According to Farrar, all jobs are obtained through per­who spoke last night at Saint Mary's sonal contacts." as part of the Women in the The payoffs ofnetworking include Workplace series, network~ are vital promotions, increased visibility, and to today's career women. professional growth. 
"What's more and more impor­tant today is not what you know, it's "Networks help women realize who you know," Farrar said. their career goals more effectively," 
Distinguishing between men's Farrar said. "Networking is not just and women's networks, Farrar said, interested in helping women attain "Men have always used networking power, but rather is interested in to get ahead in business. However, humanizing that power." 
Federal officials hunt 
U.S. Marshal killer 
FARGO, N.D. (AP) -The jailed "Please, Gordon, please," Joan wife ofan anti-tax survivalist hunted Kahl, wife of 63-year-old Gordon in the slayings of two U.S. marshals Kahl, said at the Federal Building in went before television cameras yes­Fargo. "They won't hurt you." terday and begged her husband to Kahl has eluded officers since Sun­surrender. day night when a group of anti-tax 
militants blasted their way out oflaw 
A Philadelphia resident operates a snowblower bank. Clean-up continues in the East after last in an effort to extricate a car trapped in a snow-u•eek's record blizzard. (AP Photo). 

officers' attempt to arrest them. Five have ~nee been arrested, but Kahl, 
the main target, has remained at large. 

U.S. sends A WACS, 
"I've been treated real well here,"
Nimitz near Egypt 
Mrs. Kahl said in the appeal. "Our 
WASHINGTON (AP) The United States has sent AWACS planes to Egypt and has moved an aircraft carrier battle group to counter a Libyan aircraft buildup apparently aimed at the Sudan, Pentagon sources disclosed yesterday night. 
The carrier USS Nimitz and its es­corts are now operating north ofthe Gulf of Sidre, waters claimed by Libya but held by the L:nited States to be international. It was over that gulf that U.S. fighters shot down two Libyan planes two years ago. 
Accodng to the Pentagon sources, who spoke only on condition that they not be identitled. Libyan leader Col. Moammar Khadafy has moved air units to bases in Chad, the ad­jacent country to the south where Libya has been supporting one fac­tion in a civil war. 
Those units appear to threaten the Sudan, Chad's eastern neighbor, the sources said. 
Egypt has moved units of its own son is in criiical condition, two men air force to bases in southern Egypt, are de:~d, others are going to be hurt. north of Chad, to be in a position to I don't want to see you dead too." 
counter any libyan moves, the :\1rs. Kahl began to cry, sobbing, sources said. "Please, I can't take any more." Several AWACS planes haw been Mrs. Kahl, 62, her son Yori, 2); sent to E~,')'pt fro111 Tinkt:r Air Force David R. Broer, S3;-Vernon A. Weg­Base in Oklahoma, the sources said. ner, 25, and Scott Faul, 29, also have 
These planes, loaded with been charged with murder in the electronic equipment, can see slayings of the two marshals. hundreds of miles by radar and can Federal authorities who had asked 
direct air battles from far away. local TV stations to broadcast the ap­Smaller versions used by Israel ar.e peal did not appear with Mrs. Kahl. credited with playing a key role in U.S. Attorney Rodney Webb ear­Isradi-Syrian air fighting last fall that lier had called on Kahl to give up to saw some 90 Syrian fighters downed avoid further bloodshed. 
for the loss ofone Israeli plane. Webb said law enforcement ot~ Khadafy has made similar moves tkers operating from a command in the past and one occasion, the post in Jamestown, N.D., had 
Carter administration sent tanks to changed the emphasis of the inves­

tigation Jrom searching for Kahl to Egypt and Libya long have been at conducting interviews. odds and on several occasions since 
Khadafy came to power in 1969 "It is our best view or opinion that 
have sent troops to their mutual Mr. Kahl is still in North Dakota," the 
desert frontier. prosecutor said. 
the Sudan. 
ND DEA.Dum: • css wsr 
UCEIVE FAr IY MAIICR 1 School Year 1982-83 

COLLEGE SCHOlARSHIP SfAVICE OF THE COLLEGE BOARD 
Tn•F•n•nc·••••OJ•J•m,h IPP''IOt 1•nln<•l•lodl)ol' 
• lonlnt••• I•CI proQ•I"~ • 
'''''"'II"""OO'Il''"'"' 
• ''''' l<"OII<~II·L> lr 'II' 
,,..,,,,.,11uC.ntlor•, " 
Tna·"'oo"'••·onw•••·iO •·· At••••o.. co,.,o••••••'" 
••CI CSS1 f01e CSS •·•· a 
<<>"e?''"""r'09'""'''"•
ll'""''l'enn••·,.,..,,,,,, 
Mow do lopply for f from ••••• ocholoro 
CI'IK" *''"'"''0·''11'', 
th•tO'II''"'II'"Q'ol"''"'' 
lf'>l"'•"'l"IS'•0"4' H.ol ...o ,, 'J(] ,.,, •••~ 011"11~· ' 
[)t)n • ~In(!'~'" "'''• '" "'"·~•·v•·C'"'*'••<• .-,, ...,. O">' ..... 'to'"'~ ..... ' 
Mo• dol•ppiJ for f, flnoftclolold ~,. ••,.. 
YO\oiOIIO,Io•'MII!a•""' 11s ,,. QuiiiOO~ •l fo,. 
O.n!I"''"C•III•0D'.:!Q'I"' 
Whn •hould IIIII Ol 
Foi!Oulln(lonaotonlf'' Mononbllo•••"••••••I\IC rOu••11 onQuiii•On•• Ogn 
..........., C:ll .... , ... css ........ , ........ ' 
CO,.IIOtCOUIQ•A-ml). lonltell<o••(>o>ID-"-'I"u•"' otrlutt.,.amou"''""'• 
o••ow•••flentfleC!o~E•t•" 
.---------------.. :·~;:::·~;:: .. ,. 
FAF due 3/1 
Deadline for submitting the Financial Aid Form i~ :\1arch I, and the :-.lotre Damt· Office of Finant'ial Aid ~uggest~ that stu­dents ~uhmit the form by mid­rehrurarv at I he late~t. 
The I'AF i~ tile onlv form required hy :'llotre Dame for students to receive aid. Direc­tor of Finam:ial Aid Joe Ru~so advise~ all students to submit a ti1rm to the College Scholarship Servin· and not to assume automatically that they are not eligible for aid. 
The ofilce, Russo said, is hard pre~~ed to give aid to student~ who m•~~ the I'AF deadline. 
._______________.....J 
fl\1 (;:)~ •OOI '"'0 f0U I '11)1>11 lfiO••"Q lfll onlo•mii>Ofl Ifill •I\  too ro.. "''' nno ,.._,,,, o.·~ Don •­ 
u•MJIOCIOtuiiii'DU'I"""'IIIIICOntooDo.oi•O"  ,_u.rtou.. css.  
.:......,.  

WEEKEND RETREAT 
u,ouhwl"'. 
,<l,ou<hiiHIDwiJAflo 
'II'"'"'""''""(•'>•'·"'
"" 
., 
0 'TOf"~O •'••• ! "•' ""..•olrol 
..... '"".."'"tll•>"'"b" 
.....~··~~ J..... -~ ~-'""' 
•\ .."""''>\o'ol'"'\'•·•····· 
• """"'" ,, jjl' ..... ~·· 
\1\•0 .......n<, .......,.... 
....... , ...............to • ...: 
fAfto'""'""''Lol~•>' 
nto(nOOM,JIRIQ.,..,Ofo,,.. •••flt,ouag•oopoagoaor 
,,.,....... , ....,.,00>•>' 
·:..~~:.~:.:::.·.:::·:~: ... 
..,, ·~ 11• ,.,..,, •'"" 

goQLtude a"d Commu"Lty g,t Judtth u4"" CBeattle 

February 25 · 27 Lake Michigan House 
$8 

There are still a few places available on this WEEKEND 

CaII 239-5242 
~ en 
rr;--..

~ ';:}
'!J 





[J1 v 

~ ~I~ 
~~~ 
., ? CC!RJPUS E>(QJ ~ <3 m1n1Stry '-....--' <; ~ 

----~--------------------__,..--r-~·-------~--~------~~------·------~ --r ----------~-· -­
---,_..----------...--­
The Observer Thursday, February 1 7, 1983 -page 6 
Unemployment high in eastern steel mill city 
JOHNSTOWN, Pa. ( AP) -This Another tlood killed eight people mountain steel mill city, be~t known in March 19:~6 and a third killed 85 for its thrt-c devastating Hoods, has a people in July 1977. new badge of sulkring with the na­However, Johnstown has one tion·~ hight•st employment rate, 22 . ., positive national distinction -the 
percent. lowest crime rate of any urban area 
"Sure it's sad. It's no fun," Mayor for 18 ofthe last 19 years. While U.S. Herbert Pfuhl said yesterday. "But crime rose 9 percent last year, Johnstown's going to come hack. It Johnstown's crime rate dropped 6.6 has got to come hack." percent. 
Johnstown, a city of ahout 35,000 City officials, including Police people 65 miles east of Pittsburgh, ChiefJohn Kucenski cannot explain has depended on steel mills and the low crime rate. But they say the nearby coal mines for its prosperity. city's isolation and its closely knit 
"One out of five -20 percent -ethnic neighborhoods have fostered of our employment totals are in a civic pride to combat economic those two areas," said Richard and natural adversity. Uzelac, director of a local business The mayor said he is banking on development group. citizen resourcefulness at a town 
Bethlehem Steel Corp., meeting Feb. 25, when residents will Johnstown's largest employer, has be encouraged to contribute ideas laid offabout 5,100 of7,000 workers to help the city. at its 12-mile-long wire, rail, rod, "We're looking for suggestions axle and railroad car plant along the out there that no one knows about, Conemaugh River valley. something for a little nugget of
The nose ofan Eastern Airlines jet sits on the 
U.S. Steel Corp., the nation's Jar· employment here or there," said
ground as crew members talk with airport offi· 
gest steel producer, has idled about Pfuhl.
cials at the Miami International Airport late 
930 of 1,400 workers at its smaller A consolidation of Bethlehem's
Tuesday night after it made an emergency tan-
plant nearby. facilities in Johnstown with its plant "Our general manager in at Lackawanna, N.Y., will make per· 
Johnstown says 1982 was dismal and manent the layoff of 3,000 workers the short-term outlook for 1983 isn't here, but it also will bring several any better," Bethlehem Steel spokes­hundred employees back on the job, man Gary Graham said yesterday. said company spokeswoman Betty 
EPA investigation 

Release of documents considered 
"We'll see an upsurge in Johnstown Kovach. 
WASHINGTON (AP) Top gain congressional testimony by a involving her former employer, when we see an upsurge in the steel Reagan administration officials went fired EPA official who headed the Aerojet General Corp. industry." • Johnstown, the setting for Paul to Capitol Hill yesterday to outline a $1.6 billion superfund toxic waste Aerojet was one of several Johnstown is known for one ofthe Newman's 1976 movie "Slapshot," compromise that, according to cleanup program that is the subject hundred companies which used the nation's worst disasters, a May 1889 also is hoping 20th Century-Fox's fil. sources, would release disputed En· ofthe six investigations underway in Stringfellow Acid Pits, a toxic waste tlood that killed 2,209 people. The ming ofthe new movie "All the Right vironmental Protection Agency Congress. dump near Riverside, Calif., that Ms. South Fork Dam burst 14 miles up Moves" will pump about $4 million documents but would limit who in Rep. James Howard, D·N.J., chair­Lavelle's office was negotiating to the valley, unleashing a 40-foot wall into the local economy later this Congress could see them. man of the House Public Works clean up. ofwater. year. 
The documents are the focus of a 
Committee, said negotiations were -----------------------------------------------­half-dozen congressional investiga· under way with former EPA assistant tions of EPA and of a constitutional Administrator Rita M. Lavelle and Sharon conflict 
struggle between Congress and the her attorney to arrange her ap· White House. The administration's pearance before the committee. refusal to release them led to a con­"The chair feels confident we will 

Begin defeats no-confidence move 
tempt of Congress charge against have Ms. Lavelle as a witness tomor· EPA administrator Anne M. Gorsuch. row," he said. JERUSALEM, (AP) -Minister "Did you know that this is how the judges sat on the inquiry panel. Earlier, the committee issued a Menachern Begin's coalition easily war in Lebanon would develop Sharon has accused the cornrnis· 
Administration sources, who subpoena for Ms. Lavelle, but a com­defeated three parliamentary no· when you made the decision to go sion of "putting a Mark of Cain" on answered questions on condition mittee aide who insisted on confidence motions yesterday in? were these the results you ex­Israel by saying it bore indirect they not be named, said the basic anonymity said two investigators aimed at toppling the government pected? the length of the war? its blame for the massacre ofsome 700 
proposal was to show the docu­were frustrated in delivering the over the Beirut massacre inquiry. price?" Palestinians in the camps. ments only to Rep. Elliott H. Levitas, paper to Ms. Lavelle at her horne. The 64-56 vote, taken on the The four-rnan Communist Party The government, said Rubinstein, chairman of the subcommittee that "She wouldn't open the door," the three motions simultaneously by a presented a separate motion accus· was responsible for Sharon, and it originally subpoenaed them, and the aide said. Parliament in full attendance, ing Begin of causing 70,000 deaths should have "cried out: enough! ranking Republican on his subcom­Ms. Lavelle was targeted in yet an· followed party lines. It was the in the Lebanon war. stop inciting the public against the mittee. other investigation revealed yester· twelfth time Begin has crushed no· Amnon Rubinstein of the two· Supreme Court." No one else on Capitol Hill would day, this one by the Justice confidence motions since hi.-; re· man middle-road Shinui faction For Sharon, he claimed, "there is see the original documents in their Department. election in June 1981. presented the third motion, accus· apparently no limit to the chutzpah entirety, the sources said. Administration sources, who Reports circulated that serious ing Sharon of contempt of the (impertinence), no limit to the lies." spoke on condition they not be efforts were under way to draw Supreme Court, two of whose Levitas was involved in the corn· named, said the department's Begin's Likud bloc and the opposi· promise meetings along with White criminal division opened a prelirni· tion Labor Party together into a 
House counsel Fred Fielding, nary inquiry into whether Ms. "national unity government" ai t rned Deputy Attorney General Edward C. Lavelle violated contlict-of-interest at healing Israel's split over the in· Schrnults, and Assistant Attorney laws. quiry report and the ouster of Ariel • • • Hesburgh
General Carol E. Dinkins, head ofthe The sources said Mrs. Gorsuch -Sharon as defense chief. Justice Department's land and who tried to fire Ms. Lavelle before Both Labor and Likud appeared natural resources division. President Reagan succeeded in divided over whether to go ahead continuedfrom page I tion to some new projects planned 
doing so -requested the inquiry, with the union. for the Arts and Lerters department Meanwhile, another possible which concerns whether Ms. Lavelle Sharon resigned as defense minis· world that is on the brink ofdestroy· specifically. He included the new compromise was being discussed to · had participated in an EPA case ter Sunday after the inquiry commis· ing itself." He emphasized that a shift Arts and Letters faculty building, sion criticized his decision last is needed towards faith and which will allow faculty to become September to let Lebanese Christian humanity as the central theme of more accessible to students and will 

militiamen  into  two  west  Beirut  education.  provide  a  one-on-one  atmosphere  
refugee camps where hundreds of  Hesburgh reasserted the Univer· which will nurture a more positive  
civilians  were  slaughtered.  But  sity's goal to expose all students who attitude on both parts. He also men·  

Sharon remained in the Cabinet as a pass through it to some liberal tioned a projected classroom build· minister without portfolio. education, even for the most techni· ing which will feature new, The combative ex-general's cally oriented. He reassured the innovative techniques in teaching. 
accepting applications for 
weakened status was demonstrated group that employers will be "The attention given to facilities is yesterday when he was excluded looking for a "person who can learn" circular, with every college getting from a meeting of the ministerial as opposed w someone who is taken care of eventually," he said,

thefollowing positions · 
committee on the Lebanon negotia· knowledgeable in only one specific and cited recent developments in tions, ofwhich he used to be a senior field. the Arts and Letters department member. "If you get your foot in the door, such as the new art department 
Former Prime Minister Yitzhak you'll move faster," Hesburgh in· residence which recently moved Rabin led the onslaught against the sisted. "Employers will be looking from the old fieldhouse to the newly

Managing editor 
government, claiming its conduct in for a person who is good at what he remodeled chemistry building to 
the massacre wa~ indicative of its does and also broad, as opposed to support his statement. 
handling of the entire Lebanon inva· good and narrow-minded. i I'm al· ·We are on the verge of taking a 
sion that was launched June 6. most willing to guarantee t))at if he strong look at the educational cur­

Business manager 
Introducing the Labor Party's rno· ( the liberal arts graduate) is able to riculum of this University," Hes· tion, Rabin said the commission's get his foot in the door, he will move burgh concluded. He assured his findings aroused "grave worry in my up very quickly," he confided.. audience for the lecture -which
Applications are due in 
heart" about the conduct ofthe inva· The future of Arts and Letters at was sponsored by the Arts and Let· sion in general. Notre Dame is very bright indeed, ters Student Advisory Council ­"Can we be sure," he asked, that according to the University presi· that liberal education would con­
The Observer offices by 5 p.m. 
the blunders which led to the mas· dent. He cited the PACE report as tinue to hold its central position in 
sacre "did not happen in other calling for a strive for excellence in students education here at Notre
Monday, February 21. 
stages ofour involvement?" all fields ofstudy, but he called auen· Dame just as it always has. 

Business & Technology Thursday,Februaryl7,1983-page7 
Economic Update 
The Economic Recovery Tax Act, the big 
tax cut approved by Congress in August 1981, was to have reduced income taxes by nearly $750 billion over five years. But it isn't likely to achieve its goal. Even the budget for fiscal 1984 concedes that the tax reduction might amount to only :S609 billion through 1986, largely because of the recession. And, says Kenneth Simonson, a: tax economist, that is "only the beginning ofthe sad tale of of ERTA's demise." Simonson, ofthe U.S. Chamber ofCommerce also writes for its weekly Washington Report. He says Congress and the president ignored the fact that tax increases previously passed had not taken full effect. When everything is considered, Simonson claims, the net tax cut through 1986 might be only .1192 billion, "a far cry from the 
$750 billion tax cut intended by the 97th Congress." -AP 
House Republican leaders, echoing 
Democratic proposals, said yesterday they will try to pass a reces­sion relief bill later this year that goes beyond President Reagan's $4.3 billion package. House GOP leader Bob Michel of Illinois and Rep. john Erlenborn, R-Ill., head of a party task force on jobs, said they will propose minor changes in the president's program now, possibly including health insurance for the jobless. The House Democratic leadership has been talking compromise, but stands ready to add as much as S1 billion to Reagan's current plan for sum­mer youth jobs, infant feeding programs, and weatherizing low­income housing. Talk ofaltering the president's jobs bill came even as top administration aides pressed their efforts to keep the cost of the package from swelling. -AP 
Engineering Update 
A shortage ofstate engineersto review plans 
for wastewater treatment plants could cause Indiana S55 million in federal funding for construction of five plants and could delay in­definitely construction ofseven others, a State Board of Health offi­cial says. AI A. Bohner, director of the board's Water Pollution Control Division, says his division may not be able to complete man­datory reviews on time because the review section is operating at only 50 percent capacity. "We have a quite severe shortage of qualified technical people.~ Bohner told the Indiana Stream Pollu­tion Control Board on Tuesday. Plans for five of the plants, scheduled to be submitted to the state beginning in April, must be inspected by Oct. 1 or $55 million ofeligible federal funding will be lost, Bohner said. State officials say Indiana needs about six more engineers, but attracting qualified professionals would be difficult because of Indiana's low pay and the state's recently imposed hiring freeze. -AP 
Wall Street Update 
The StOCk market, stalled at the threshold of 1, I00 and the Dow jones industrial average recorded a moderate loss Wednesday despite signs of progress. toward economic recovery. The DowJones' average of30 blue chips, up more than 4 points at its best levels ofthe day, closed with a 5.67loss at 1,087.43. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 82.10 million shares, against 
89.04 million Tuesday. Before the market opened, the government reported that industrial production increased 0.9 percent in january. The daily tally on the Big Board showed almost three losers for every stock that gained ground, and the exchange's composite index slipped .SO to 85.18. Nationwide turnover in NYSE-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 96.16 million shares. -AP 
SUMMER PROGRAMS 
1

1 L.:'0NOON ~~ ~ ROME 
May 17-June 16 Travel in Ireland Scotland &France 
Courses in Art, Business, Education, History, Italian, Music and Philosophy. 
Meeting· Feb. 23

Informational 
7pm. London Bpm ·Rome 
Room 348 Madeleva Hall Passport Pictures Available 

for-Further Info. Call P;,.,f A.R. Black 4460 a-272-3716 
nU)NPO!l! $  ;')  
.aE21l~  June 13 ·July 1:2  
Travel in France  

Germany& Switzerland 

More foreign students 
American education attracts many 
By DAVID SARPHIE 
AssistantNewsEditor 
"The U.S. standard of technologi­cal and scientific development is number one in the world Why would I go anywhere else?" 
Mohammed Sarhan's words reflect his reasons for leaving Egypt two years ago to come to the United States for further research in electri­cal engineering. On a larger scale, his words reflect the reasons for the increasing number of foreign stu· dents coming to the United States for higher education. 
Coinciding with this decade-long increase here has been a decreased willingness for American students to enter Ph.D programs. 
According to the Dean of Notre Dame's Department of Engineering, Roger Schmitz, these simultaneous trends have brought the level of roreign graduate students in the department to nearly 45 percent. "I think it's a little bothersome that the pool ofPh.D students in engineering doesn't include more American citizens," he commented. 
It is from this pool that Notre Dame must draw its faculty mem­bers. Therefore, as the percentage of foreign graduate students has in­creased, so has the percentage of foreign faculty members, bringing the number to nearly 20 percent. 
Schmitz credited differing at­titudes between foreign and American students for the simul­
, taneous trends. "The academic en­vironment seems to appeal to the foreign student," he noted. "Mo~t American students, on the other hand, have been attracted by the high salaries offered in industry." 
Acknowledging that the engineer­ing department favors American ap­plicants for positions in the graduate school, Schmitz maintained that his office has never excluded foreign applicants. "Although we have made no attempt to recruit foreign stu· dents, they are always certainly welcome to apply." 
In the past those foreign students who have chosen to leave the field of research have sought employment in the United States. "That may be changing," Schmitz noted, "as the opportunities for students with visas are decreasing." Among the rea~ons for this change is the increased ap­prehension ofU. S. industries to hire foreign students who may be plan­ning to work here for only a few years before returning home. 
Other students return to their native countries to work and pay back their respective governments for the costs incurred due to their primary and secondary educations. 
Rajiv Dighe came to Notre Dame from India over two years ago for 
research in computer modeling of socio-economic systems. "My government spent over 250,000 rupees ( ll60,000) to educate each engineer," he sai<' "I feel there must be some way I c;. .. give some of this money back to the country. I want to do my part to prevent the brain drain which finds many Indians leaving the country for good." 

Davis, ownerofthe Computer Co., displayed features ofthe new Apple 11 E microcomputer to a group of computer enthusiasts last night in Hayes Hea~v Center (Photo by Paul Cifarelli). 

Electronic deposits to provide compensation 
By CATHY PAX 
StaffReporter 
The United States is 'steadily becoming a country of paperless 
transactions  according  to  Notre  
Dame's finance  department  chair­ 
man, Edward Trubac.  

"We are moving toward a check­less society," said Trubac, "but we are by no means there." 
The current trend in finance is to employ electronic deposits instead of payroll checks to conpcnsate workers. "It's the wave of the future," said Trubac, "The check is ~lowly disappearing as a medium of payment for work done." 
He stated that not only large cor­porations can. make use of these electronic deposits but also the average family. "Banks are implementing personal computers as a means for paying bills." Trubac adds that when the system becomes well-developed, a customer could pay all his bills by simply ordering 
Thursday is Tankard Night in the Terrace Lounge at the South Bend Marriott! South Bend's largest 
34 oz. tankard of beer is only 
$4.00 

and YOU KEEP THE SOUVENIR GLASS TANKARD! Refills every weekday from 4 -7 p.m. (on Thursdays until closing) are just $2.00! 
.y 
:J

~ The Place to Be! 123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend (219) 234-2000 
the transactions on the personal computer in his home. 
This system could not only make the check obsolete, but paper money as well. "I guess currency too, is going by the wayside." said Trubac. "Currency could be needed only for vending machines and for activities in the underground economy." 
The underground economy in­cludes all illegal, unrecorded trans­actions that are conducted in cash and not reported in income tax returns. Payments to babysittcrs or payments for illegal drugs arc com­mon examples, according to Trubac. 
In a paperless transactions society, underground activity would be much more difficult. Trubac believes that this type of society is definitely possible in the future. However, neither he nor Alan Gar­ner, an assistant professor oftlnance, knows of any area corporations that presently pay their employees by electronic methods. 

The Observer Thursday, February 17, 1983-page 8 
Can.on law changes disc·ussed by Lahey 
By PAT MALLEY 
News Staff 
The recent: changes in the Cath­olic Church's canon law have no great impact on today's Christian, according to fr. John Lahey C.S.C. The new canon law is a response to the need to codify the changes brought about by Vatican II. 
"There is a sense that... there is no­thing terribly new to us (in the code) becalllse we have lived through the period of time when these changes have taken place," said Lahey in a lecture before the St. Thomas Moore Society last night. He maintained that the changes were turned out piecemeal by the Vatican Council and that now the church has a codified version of these changes. 
Lahey stressed the proper role of laws within .the church. "The reason for law is so we can live in peace and harmony in the church. The basic tenor does not have to do with coer­
A costumed samba dancer sleeps on a Rio de return to normal at noon, hangovers and all. ( AP 
cion," said Lahey, "but is more of an
janeiro sidewalk Wednesday morning after four Photo). 
invitation."
days of carnival. Custom called for Brazil to 
---------------------------------------------·-------...... 
SoonerOrLater You'llGetResponsibili.,.LikeThis. InTheNavyIt'sSooner. 
You're maneuvering ment experience that 445 feet of guided could take years in missile frigate through private industry. And the navigational they earn the decision­hazards and non-stop making authority it traffic of one of the takes to make that 
world's busiest ports. responsibility pay off. 
But you'll dock As their manage­safely. Because you ment abilities grow,, know your equipment. Navy officers can take You know your men. And even when the advantage of advanced education and responsibility weighs in at 3,600 tons ... training in fields as varied as operations you're ready. management, electronics, and systems 
After four years of college, you're analysis. In graduate school it would east ready for more responsibility than most you thousands; in the Navy we pay you. civilian jobs offer. Navy officers get the And the Navy pays well. The start­kind of job and responsibility they want, ing salary is $17,000 (more than most and they get it sooner. companies pay). And that's on top of a 
Navy officers are part of the manage­comprehensive benefits program that ment team after 16 weeks. Instead of boot can include special duty pay. After four camp, officer candidates years, with regular 
r ;:;:::V~;;O;;U-;;T-;-----W-; 1
receive four months promotions and pay in­
INFORMATION CENTER 
I

of leadership training. I P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 creases, the salary is up It's professional school­I 0 I'd rather have responsibility sooner. Tell me I to as much as $31,000. 
more about the Navy's officer program. (0G)
ing designed to sharpen If you qualify to
I 1
Nam~-v=~---m~~~--~~---­
their technical and First (Please Print) Last I be an officer in the
1 Address Apt. 11--­
management skills. Navy, chances are you
1 City State Zip_ I
Then, in their first have what it takes to 
I Age__tCollege/University

assignment, Navy I succeed. The Navy just
:j:Year in Colle tGP·"----­
officers get manage-I.a.Major/Minor_________________ makes it happen faster.
I 
Phone Number

I I 
I 
(Area Code) Best Time to Call This is for general recruitment informe.tion. You do not have to{ur· I 
k~~w~~~e %~~e~~~::h!l;0tored~~=:~~~e~~ecki~d~' o~hNe.~~r~o;i~
L::f::hi::o::l:.. ______J 
. Navy Officers GetResponsibilityFast. 

Canon law covers a number of 
pressing contemporary issues. For 
example, the law spells out strict 
views on abortion. "(Abortion is) 
om; of the few left which is an 
automatic excommunication crime 
or sin." Lahey explained social dis­
regard for life as a result of abortion 
as the reason for the severity of the 
punishment. 
Lahey admitted .the code is not 
very concrete in some areas. In 
adressing professional ethics, the 
code urges men and women to con­
sider certain ethical issues that may 
arise on the job. 
"You have a number of ethical issues which can be very compli­cated," Lahey said." Business, for ex­ample, can be a complicated affair. If you have to close a factory, what will you do?" 
The new code urges professionals to become aware of both personal and professional ethics and their governing principles and to apply them to their day to day decisions. 
The code also adresses church finances and the administration of church property, setting forth a 
priest's and bishop's responsibilities. "People should be given an ac­count of parish/diocesan finances,"explained Lahey. "How is the money they put in the collection baskets being spent? How much is going to buy candles?" 
Lahey stressed the point Pope John made when convening Vatican 
II. "Canon law should play a part in the church, but it should not dominate the church." 
STUDENT DISCOUNT 
of'"' s~~~ 
S 'J...S <t 7 
Q~\~ ~1\t~ 
20 0/0 OFF 
Good Mon · Thurs onlv 
STUDENT DISCOUNT 
w/Stodent I.D. 
Offer not valid with any 
other Aurelio's special 
discount or coupon valid at 
S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 
C .. MJI\Oll IIUI\fM\
277 4950 
OIIOI'll' • .. , ..ll ..till 

DAYTONA INN BROADWAY 
IS 
SPRING BREAK 
HEADQUARTERS 
IN 
Call now for information, rates and reservations 
1-800-874-1822 
THIS IS A TOLL FREE CALL 
![;A\'"rlf1[1 ~A\ II~~ IUIJ>l A\1[."'\j~"". 
219 South Atlantic Avenue Daytona Beach, FL 32018 


-.__--r..-~•...,,.--,­
-~----~----­

Editorials 
Thursday, February 17, 1983-page 9 
USA Today succeeds as 'national' paper 
In September, the Gannett newspaper chain unveiled a "national newspaper" which they called USA Today. It began as a bold ex­periment, and has become, in its early stages, an unmitigated success. 
Skip Desjardin 
On the Media 
Gannett, which owns some 90 newspapers across the country, sunk a reported S100 mil­lion into the project -a daily paper beamed to printing presses across the country by satellite. So far, the initial investment is paying off -if not on the credit and debit sheets, at least at the newsstand. 
USA Today comes to Chicago and, repor­tedly, South Bend on March 9. That is well ahead of the original schedule set by Gannett president AI Neuharth. The premier date was moved up as a result of the success the paper has enjoyed in the handful ofmajor markets in which it has already appeared. 
Gannett officials had hoped that the paper's circulation would reach the 200,000 mark by the end of 1982. Instead, just six weeks after that, it is about to topple the 600,000 mark. -If you have never seen USA Today, you are in for a shock. It is unlike any other paper in America. It is filled with full color pages whose clarity and vibrancy rival any glossy magazine. It features news and sports from every state in the union -every day. 
If you read the Chicago papers, you have undoubtedly noticed a change in their overall "look." The sports sections of both papers have been expanded, and color pictures have -been added, along with more charts and graphs, and an expanded scoreboard section. 
All of these changes are in response to the an­ticipated arrival ofUSA Toda_y. 
USA has made its strongest advances in the field of sports coverage. They have a travel budget reportedly well over 5350,000 per month. That's just travel. 
The news sections leave a lot to be desired. They are a kind ofPeople magazine look at the news. The stories are short, without much depth, and tend to deal with showbiz and pop culture more than most papers. But the publishers did not set out to put out a New York Times clone. They admit that USA will be a second paper for many households, and they are targetting travellers who care little about hard news as a prime audience. 
USA Today is exciting to look at, and easy to read. On a campus like Notre Dame, where students are from all over the country, and sports is a top priority, USA will undoubtedly sell like hotcakes. Rut will the novelty wear oft? Do peoplereal~y want hard news after all? 
I doubt it. Americans have proven time and again that, as a whole, they are bored by in­depth analysis. Those that are looking for meaning in their news readU.S. News & World Report. Let's be realisic. Far more people read People than U.S. News. Far more watch Dan Rather's headline service than McNeil and Lehrer's intelligent probe ofthe news. 
USA Today will be a hit in every major market. But it will not adversely effect the sales of other newspapers. The Chicago papers need not worry too much. Those who want local news will have to buy their papers. USA deals with national and world events on­ly. 
The final result of all this will be that more newspapers will be sold than in many years. Gannett has taken a huge risk and made it work.. 
Human life is a gift, not a burden 
The last couple of editorials concerning Prof. Rice's article, "Sexuality and Ethics," failed to understand the relationship between abortion and euthanasia and the relationship between artificial contraception and child abuse. This essay attempts to show the 
1ohn F. McGrath, 1r. 
Guest Columnist 
relationships in the context that human life is God's joyful gift rather than our unfortunate burden. Acommon disregard and irreverence for human dignity and human life underlies each of these practices and provides the rationale for establishing the the relationship between abortion and euthanasia and the relationship between artificial contraception and child abuse. 
Artificial contraception and <_;:hild abuse share the same attitude: children are a burden. Ifchildren are born, we, as a society, find that they demand too much time, effort, and money. Children compound our economic problems. Sometimes our problems become too great, and we abuse them physically and psychologically. Child abuse increased as ar­tificial contraception was become generally accepted. This does not imply that everyone who practices artificial contraception abuses children. Obviously, people who practice ar­tificial contraception would agree with those who abuse children: children are a burden. People who practice artificial contraception think: "Children would impose on our life and the world. We don't want children and the as­sociated responsibilities." People who abuse their children think: "Unfortunately, we have children and these children are getting on our nerves. They are interfering with our life. We regret our children and the associated respon­sibilities." Child abuse and artificial con­
traception are two different acts that result from the same belief that children are a bur­den. 
Before going further, it must be recognized that not everyone who practices artificial con­traception takes such a callous attitude toward children. Many people who practice artificial contraception are well-intentioned and may even want children in the long run. But artificial contraception is wrong. Artificial contraception is the wrong solution to real problems in a world that discourages a hus­band and wife from having children. It is true that these problems -financial, psychologi­cal, and medical -discourage a good number of married couples from having children. But 
to solve these problems using artificial con­traception disrespects the fulness, the purpose, and the sanctity of the sexual union. Furthermore, the nature of contraceptibe devices attacks the dignity and infinite worth of women and even harms their mental and physical health. Popejohn Paul II understands the modern problems of married couples. Today married couples for many different reasons do not want their families to increase and yet have the need for ~nxual intercourse. Before becoming pope, K..,ol Wojtyla wrote Love and Responsibili~y, and recognized this problem. He writes, "In matrimony the man and woman belong to each other in a special way, they are 'one flesh' (Genesis 2:24 ). The mutual need ofthe two persons for each other expresses it!>elf also in rhe need for sexual in­tercourse. This being so, the idea ofrefraining from intercourse inevitably runs into certain difficulties and objections. On the other hand, a couple who do not sometimes refrain from sexual intercourse may see their family in­crease excessively." Although Pope john Paul II understands the difficulties married couples experience, he cannot accept artificial con­traception as the solution since it leaves no­thing ofthe marital relationship "except mere sexual enjoyment." Rather, the Pope proposes the practice known as "periodic continence" which is rooted in justice and truth. The point 
being made is that the Church teaches a challenging and exciting alternative which helps the family to grow stronger in love and to grow closer to God. 
Consider abortion and euthanasia. Mother Teresa stated in her address to the Nobel Peace Conference ( 1979 ), "I feel the greatest destroyer of peace today is abortion, because it is a direct war, a direct killing, direct murder by the mother herself ... If a mother can kill her own child, what is left for me to kill you and vou to kill me? There is nothing between." Abo~tion and euthanasia share a common dis­regard and irreverence for human life. A mot­her and father's love for their child is a principle representation of the basis of the moral order, and God is the basis of the moral order. The parents' love for their children symbolizes, embodies, and points to God's love for His children, mankind. If you don't recognize the fundamental evil of abortion which is the antithesis of God's love for children, you will probably be less inclined or less capable of seeing the evil in other practices such as euthanasia that aim at the destruction of human life. The Supreme Court's decision to make abortion legal and the acceptance given to the decision by many Americans testifies to a spiritual blindness that 
\ 

reveals a serious weakness, as a nation, to dis­tinguish fundamentally between what is right and what is wrong. Because the Supreme Court made abortion legal, the Supreme Court failed completely in making the right decision in accordance with the truth: human life begins at conception. Will the Supreme 
Court  make  legal  other practices such  as  
euthanasia  that  end  in  the  destruction  of  
human life~  

Because artificial contraception, child abuse, abortion, and euthanasia share a com­mon relationship in attitude against human life and human dignity, this essay supports the rejection of these practices. The world needs 
Christ; let's proclaim the primacy ofGod in all life and once conceived, protect, encourage, and sustain human life no matter what the cost. 


Editorial Board 
Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic Adr,ertisingManager.......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of eitlter institution. The news is reported as ac­
SMCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager.................. Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ............................. Paul McG!nn Systems Manager ·············;············-Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ............................ Joe Musumeci
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on ~am pus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor ...................................Rachel Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219) 239-5303 

Thursday, February 1 7, 1983 --page 10
Sports Bri~h 
~~~====~~================================= 
By The Obserwr and The Associated Press 
Andy Williams Open 
The Saint Mary's basketball team rallied in 
the final two minutes to defeat host DePauw, 67-62, last night. Soph­
Golfers anxious to take swings 
omore center Missy Van Ort and sophomore Elaine Suess led the 
Belles with 22 points each. Van Ort connected on 10 of 13 free LA JOLLA, Calif. t (AP)-Tom Wat­throw attempts. Saint Mary's, winners offour ofits last six games, will son is overdue, Tom Kite can't wait,take a 9-12 record into Monday's season ending contest with Saint and Jack Renner wants to shake a 
Joseph's. -The Observer nightmare. 
Winless since July, Watson can become the first three-time winner of the $300,000 Isuzu Andy Wil­
Any remaining participants in the men's un­
liams San Diego Open, which opensdergrad and men's grad singles racquetball tournaments should call tomorrow at Torrey Pines' scenicthe NVA office at 239-6100 to report results and keep the tourna­twin layout.
ment moving. -The Observer 
Since I977, tours stops in South­ern California have brought out the best in Watson. Almost one-fourth ofBengal Bouts tickets will go on sale on Friday and his 2H career victories have come on 
Saturday evenings in both the North and South Dining Halls. 
the lower West Coast. 
Proceeds will go to charity. The Bouts start on Sunday, Feb. 20, and The visit to San Diego couldn"t continue next Wednesday. The finals will be held on Sunday, come at a better time, he says.
February 25. -The Observer 
"I'm not at the top ofmy game, but I'm putting well and I'm very en­thusiastic. And I like playing this course," said Watson, who won the
Open volleyball captains have a mandatory 
San Diego event in 1977 and again in meeting on Monday, Feb 21, at 4:00 in the ACC Auditorium. All .32 
19HO. 

teams are expected to be represented. -The·Observer 
Forecasts of fair weather all week bode well for the No. 2 all-time money winner. In 1977! the year his rise to dominance began, WatsonThe ND%SMC Ski Team will hold a mandatory 
stormed to a course record 19­
meeting for all members at 6:00p.m. today in the LaFortune lobby. 
under-par 269 in good weather. 

Those who ordered sweatshirts or CB's should bring payment. 
Tournament officials are calling it 
The Observer 
one of the strongest fields, with seven of last year's top 10 money winners entered. 
Kite, who led the tour in scoringThe Rugby Club will begin practice on Sunday, average the past two years and wasFebruary 20, at 10:.30 p.m. at Stepan Center. Practices will continue the leading money winner in 19H1, on Tuesday through Thursday at 4:1 t S at the ACC. -The Observer has been keyed up since his victory in the Bing Crosby Pro-Am almost three weeks ago. 
llntil then he had won only fourThe Hockey Blue Line Club will host a ban-
tournaments during his I0-year
quet in honor of the Notre dame hockey team. The banquet will be career.
held on Monday, february 2H, at the Century Center. Cost is $10.00 
"I've had a taste of winning and I for members and $12.00 for non-members. Cocktails are served at like it," said Kite, :B, who is making6:30 and the buffet dinner begins at 7:.30. Reservations must be made his first appearance here in three by February 21 by calling the hockey oftlce or Thelma Hesling at years.
2.34-1:1279. All students are cordially invited. -The Observer 
Renner, a homegrown product, is bent on erasing the memory a crush· ing loss in the Hawaiian Open. lsao Aoki of Japan stunned Renner by sinking a 12H-yard wedge shot for an eagle on the final hole and a one-shot victory. 
"It will be testing from an emo­tional standpoint because I live here and everybody will be talking about what h~ppened on Sund~v." said Renner, 26. 
"He's one guy it won't have any psychological effect on," said Kite. "Most guys would have wanted to run away and hide, but he kept his composure." 
Aoki is not entered. 
Interhall info 

INTIERHALL RACQUETBALL PAIRINGS Winners' Bracket Second Round Tonight's Garnes Keenan (41) v Off·Carnpus (44). 6 p m Men's Doubles D1llon (27) v Off-Campus (36). 7 p m HatflelttoO Bnen (1 054) v W1nner of MosetloKrebs v Sayr&bOelahanty W1nners meet Sunday at 9 p m tor champ1onsh1p Pmhe1r&oKmg (6749) v W1nner o! Ket· of wmners bracket teret1oSct1anck v. TayldtoOahl Champ1ons of w1nners and losers· brackets play Jahodl~oMezzapesa (1789) v W1nner of CUll· Thursday Feb 24 at 7 p m If a second game IS der§'oOutott v HegllftoO"Donnell necessary. 11 Will be played Sunday. Feb 27 MucciiYoHennessey 11152) v Murra9'oE1senbe1s (1178) Klln,.,olrasqUine (8633) v Vanflanderll'oMcNulty (8685) Gro1eaii'.Welsh (1222) v Wmner of 
NHLstats 

Loomere,Fanmng v Gnfftth§'oGee ShanR<,Pineda (288,3051) v Mlchauii'oGayhardt PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
(4388) S~rnarr~oHannau (1153) v R1edtoAdams (1682) McDermo!\'oCrouch (2153) v Power8'oS1mpson Boston 
(277-1773) Montreal Walsi\',.Shockner (8773) v Sch1BitoM1nOndo (3667) Quebec Fahn~,Durbm (277·6149) v W1nner of Sulen­Buffalo 
tl&oWolf v Meak1ftoDesauln1ere Hartford C1ndnOoMarten (7829) v W1nner of OBneftoGunshtrt v VanderbecR<oFIItt1e Ph1ladelph1a Danc&oMooney 11649) v W1nner of NY Islanders 
Reye§'oBogaard v Schne1det'oM1IIes Washmgton Tambel!)'oMacDonald (239·7735) v Hogall'oRaster NY Rangers (1780) New Jersey 
Kvocha~oDelaus (1593) v 8rowll'oE1sengarber Pittsburgh (32611 Adams Division 
w L T GF GA Pis. 38 11 8 229 147 84 31 17 10 262 206 72 27 23 9 251 238 63 26 21 11 213 190 63 15 37 6 190 285 36 
Patrick Division 36 14 7 235 159 79 30 20 9 219 173 69 28 18 13 234 207 69 25 25 8 214 209 58 11 36 12 162 245 34 13 39 7 183 290 33 

Bertin&, Kruse (3770) v 0 Tool8'oJones (8324) CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Smythe Dvision w L T GF GA Pis
INTERHALL BASKETBALL PLAYOFFS Edmonton 31 17 10 309 234 72DIVISION A 
Calgary 24 26 9 24·1 244 57 Wmn1peg 23 29 7 221 246 53Winners' Bnicket Los Angeles 20 29 8 211 248 48Tonight's Games Vancouver 18 28 11 206 228 47Cavanaugh (23) v Sonn (15). 6 p m Norris DivisionAlumn1(6) v Grace (3). 7 p m Ch1cago 37 16 7 258 208 81 Minnesota 30 15 13 239 206 73W1nners meet Sunday at 8 p m for champ1onsh1p StLOUIS 19 30 11 209 233 49of w1nners bracket Detroit 15 31 12 184 239 42Champ1ons of Winners and losers· brackets play Toronto 15 30 10 206 239 40Thursda)l. Feb 24 at 8 30 p m for DIVISIOn champion· sh1p (los~:trs champ must w1n tw1ce. w1nners' champ Yesterday's R1>sultsneed w1n only once) If a second game IS necessary, 1! 

BuHalo 3, Boston 1 Will be played Sunday. Feb 27 New York Rangers 5, Washmgton 4 Tor onto 6. St. LoUis 3 

DIVISION B Ch1cago 5, Calgary 3 
Classifieds  The Observer wrll accept classrfreds Monday through Frrday, 10 a.m. to 4 30 p.m. at the Notre Dame offrce, and 12 30 to 3 p.m. at the Sarnt Mary"s offrce. However, clas­Stfreds to appear rn the next rssue must be recerved by 3 p.m. on the busrness day pnor to rnsertron. All classrfreds must be pre pard erther rn person or through the marl.  
LOST Pulsar Portable ALARM CLOCK, NEED A RIDE HElME FOR MOMS D1g1tal, Gold tone w1th blue face. FRIDAY. BDAY TO BUFFALO OR ANYPLACENOTICES JANUARY 27 1n the ENG CLOSE FOR WEEKEND OF FEB 18·20 AUDITORIUM!!! PLEASE call CHARLES NICK 8232 at x1496 THANKS!II Need nde to Orlando. Flonda and back lor TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 Spnng break W111 share as usual Call 3061 TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 I LOST MY LAUNDRY IN THE SOUTH DINING HALL···IF YOU FIND THEM GOING TO IOWA on the weekend of TYPING PLEASE CALL BRENDAN AT 7997 March 5-6??? I need a nde to and tram Jackie Boggs ANYTIME··I HAVENT CHANGED MY e1ther Iowa C1ty, Debuque. Davenport. or 684-8793 UNDER WEAR IN FOUR DAYS!'!! Cedar Rap1ds Call LISA at 8880 LYONS HALL FOODSALES DELIVERS GOING TO ILLINOIS THIS FRESH THICK CRUST PIZZA TO ALL WEEKEND??? I need a nde to e1therFOR RENTOF SOUTH QUAD. PRICES CAN'T BE Peona or Normal, Ill this Fnday, 2-18, BEAT. CALL x1853 returmng on Sunday Call KEN at 8762 4 bdrm furnished house, near campus································································ On Notre Dame Ave Good conditiOn 9PROFESSIONAL TYPING $1 00 PER BEAUTIFUL RUSSIAN NEEDS RIDE TO mo lease $335 per mo. Call 684-0933PAGE FREE PICK UP AND DELIVERY TAMPA. FLA WILL SHARE USUAL (local call) 282·1805 CALL JANNA 6746 House 4 bedroom. near ND. $290 permoTYPING WANTED 277·8534 6·10 PM M· Need nde to Tampa or Sarasota, Flonda Fall or summer No ut11it1es. Phone (319). F. ALL DAY WKNDS area for Spnng break W1ll share usual ex· 322-8753 Patty penses Call M1ke 1104 RIDE NEEDED To P1ttsburgh. th1s Furn 2 BDR POSS 3 AVAIL IMMED weekend Can leave aher 9 am on Fnday NEAR ND CALL 256-0596. FURN 2 Call Martha. 284·1514 BDR POSS 3 AVAIL IMMED NEAR ND FOR SALE CALL 233· 7631 WANTED' ROOMMATE TO SHARE USED. OUT·OF·PRINT BOOKS APT AT CAMPUS VIEW CALL 283­BOUGHT. SOLD. SEARCHED 8327 OR 277-1708 ERASMUS BOOKS 1027 E WAYNELOST/FOUND ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF EDDY· JEFFERSON INTERSECTION lost:gold se1ko quartz watch possibly leh FOR SALE 1978 CHEVETTEWANTED1n locker room at the Rock on 2/4/83 If AUTOMATIC.37000 MILES EXCEL· found. please call K1m at 277·7401 LENT CONDITION 1977 CHARGER AUTOMATIC.36500 MILES CALL 277· FOR THE PERSON WHO STUMBLED MILWAUKEE nde or nders needed Feb 4977 EVENINGS OR WEEKENDS INTO THE WRONG ROOM IN FLANNER 18-20 ROG 277 ·6842 & STUMBLED OUT WITH MY WALLET. I MOVING SALE. SOFA. LOVE SEAT. WOULD APPRECIATE THE RETURN NEED RIDE TO AKRON·CLEV AREA COfFEE TABLE. DESK. TABLE& OF THE CONTENTS NO QUESTIONS­THIS WEEKEND FEB 18·20 JuLIE CHAIRS. TWIN BEDS. MATTRESS ETC TIM·1143 X7852 CALL 277·4977 EVENINGS OR WEEKENDS Lost: Reward Burgundy purse & wallet HELP! Need nde to dwntwn Chgo or Lost at Dillon Hall Fnday. 11 Last seen 1n 0 Hare area Fn Feb 18 Marya 1266/7 For Sale· Sony Watchman· TV Call T1m at Food Sal~d. Please return. my license, 8891 school t.d.. & p1ctures are 1n there Call NEED RIDE TO NEW JERSEY FOR 284-5181. Thank you SPRING BREAK CALL DAN 1487 OR JOHN 124 7 OR CARLOS 1502 LOST ND CLASS RING( 83). NAME TICKETS INSIDE. BLUE STOME. LOST POSSIB· Need a nde East on 1·80 to Toledo tor 2· LY AT SMC(MOREAU-O"LAUGHLIN 18 J1m 8708·07 HALL), LAST SEEN OVER WEEKEND I HATE REO SPEEDWAGON TOO BUT I OF 1/28-1/30. BIG REWARD $$$ OF­HELP! NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH!! WOULD LIKE TO GO TO THE CON· FERED. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO WEEKEND OF FEB. 25. CAN LEAVE CERT ANYWAY AND I NEED A TICKET PLEASE CALL 283·3346 • ANYTIME CALL PAT 3071. • CALL3601  REO' RE01 COMING SOON TO ACC! WE H1\VE TWO GREAT TICKETS! CALL TONI AND SANDY AT SMC 5527 FOR INF01 Need DePaul t1ckets w111 pay $$$ call Mark 8919 PERSONALS] Need R1de To Connecticut For Spnng Break Will Share Usual Please Call Dan at 6824 PASQUERILLA WEST RESIDENTS Don t forget to vote for KATHY KEMP HALL PRESIDENT KATHLEEN DOYLE · HALL VICE· PRESIDENT lt"s the Find Ryan'stanllnes contest. B1g pnzes! Huge Rewards! Send in your entnes before 6 p.m. and receiVe at no extra cost, the ama:nng GINSU If knife set, including ""the cfE•ver cleaver" Rumor has 1t that McCahtah never Hats breakfast alone N/A To whoever was k1nd enough to remove my CHAIN & RING from the ROCK on 12. Feb I would very much apprec1ate '{Our return1ng 1t may call me at 3759 If tt IS returned there w1ll be NO GRIPES. however, tf 11 JS not you should hope that SECURITY f1nds you before I DO NED IV NED IV NED IV NED IV Pittsburgh! Pittsburgh' I need a nd·e to Pittsburgh thts weekend! Anyone headed there and look1ng for nders. please g1ve me a call Martha. 283·1514 Can loave after 9 am on Fnday R1ders needed to Madison or Milwaukee THIS weekend The usual Call Tom at 287·7306 Boston Need nde to Boston on Fn or Sat M11rch 25 or 26 (That s the weekend after spnng break ) Willing to share cost et al Call Jeb at 8641 Thanks  P·UNIT have a Happy 22nd (warmng be JOHN HAUTER GUESS WHAT WE careful where you crash -the bathrooms SAW THE OTHER DAY? A SIX FOOT at N1ck1es aren't too clean) MAYONNAISE STALK WITH CROSSED EYES WALKING DOWN THE QUAD1 PAULA C S B·DAY PARTY (N1ck1es P S HE WAS WEARING A UNIFORM' tomght) NEED RIDE TO DETROIT AREA FEB 18 THANKS KEVIN! You saved MY shoes CALL MARY 8800 THANKS N/A(He s not my brother. he s JUSt heavy.) JEFF HARRINGTON, I can't wait to see your inside. OOOhh SEACOW Sorry. I should have had morelalall A lalol and all those other words I fa1th 1n your angelic form N/Acan't pronounce. M We saw Rene naked DESPARATEL Y need nde to Ch1cago Feb 18 x6723 M1chelle HAPPY BIRTHDAY FRANK!ACCEPTING BIRTHDAY ALL FARLEY WOMEN KISSES AT 439 KEENAN Elect an EXPERIENCED. DEDICATED. & REALISTIC Pres & V·P JPW Soph s It all begms today Lets MARY BETH WACKOWSKI-­make sure everyone has a great time MAUREEN MCGILLISIII while hav1ng a great t1me ourselves MS Interested 1n study1ng or travelmg abroad? ANGERS INNSBRUCK MEXICO JAPAN WIELKOMMEN' BIENVENU' BIEN· THE OFFICE OF FORIEGN STUDIES VENIDOI cord1ally 1nv1tes you to a·n Open House to an Open House at the new Otf1ce of TODAY' Thursday 4 30 · 6 00 1n Rooms Fonegn Stud1es Progra'l1s TODAY 4 30 . 420 and 423 Admm1stra110n Bu1ld1ng6 00 m Rooms 420 and 423 Adm1mstra· Slides. exh1b1ts. and mternat1onal refresh­t1on Bu1ld1ng Slides. exh1b1ts. and ments See you there! refreshments kknow 1f you re headed that way Please DAN 0 DONNELL call Ke1th at 8857 HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY ·THE BRAT TIM MURPHY HAVE YOU HEARD ENGLEBERT"S NEW HIT AFTER THE HEY DOMER FROM GRACE WHAT BELTBUCKLE? ITS A QUICK RISING HAPPENED TO THE TUNES. TUNES. SINGLE! TUNES? MARK YOU REA SECK DECK BWANA and TANK See you next week! I cant walt' We II MATT DONAHER DON T WORRY WE have a great t1me LOVE. WONT TOUCH YOU' RENO TONY JORDAN SORRY WE SKIPPED YOU YOU RE JUST TOO HARD!!' ROCK THE SNACKBAH Tomght PAR 3 SMC Snackbar LOUISE McSHANE 830·11 30 LOUISE McSHANE LOUISE McSHANE COM!' OUT. COME OUT Dear Domer. WHEREVER YOU ARE' thank you tor the flowers I hope one day you wtll rftmove your call of secrecy so JOHN MIHALOVICH. IV HAVE YOU that I can express my apprec1at1on TAKEN A BATH WITH YOUR SOCKS DB ON LATELY? DUDLEY THE WHISKERS ARE GONE Brother Joe. You threaten us so We may BUT THE CHARM IS STILL THERE' a111ust go  


The Observer Thursday, February 17, 1983 -page 11 

Notre Dame track coach Joe Piane looks around the corner at this weekend's Central Collegiate Conference meet. The Irish are coming off a fine performance in last weekend's Indiana State Champion­ships. (Photo by Sco/1 Bower) 
man team were members of the In­diana All-Stars against Kentucky in 1958. 
They will be honored at the an­nual Indiana Hall of Fame induction 
continuedfrom page 16 
second half. 
Two foul shots by Johnson, and a steal and layup by Allen, brought the Panthers to within three with 2:15 left. But a three-point play by Kempton and a jumper by Dolan , surroundinga score by Vaughn, gave Notre Dame a six-point lead with just over a minute remaining and forced the Panthers to foul. 
ND responded by hitting six-of­eight foul shots down the stretch to seal the win. 
Notre Dame's record now stands at 14-8. Pitt drops to 12-10. 
"This was a must win," said Phelps. "We haven't been playing well on the road, so we've been trying to control the game tempo and concentrate on playing smart basketball. The NC State game and tonight have shown just how much we've matured as a road team. 
"We prepared well for this game -just as much as we prepare for a team like UCLA. We were able to confuse them by m1xmg our defenses and when it came down to the end, we hit our foul shots." 
In the end it was the intense defense preparation that was the dif­ference. ND held the Panthers to 41 percent shooting ( 19-for-46) from 
530 11 5 412 18 321 23 
Ph1ladelph1a Boston New Jersey Wash1ngton New York 
Mtlwaukee Atlanta Detro1t 
Ch1cago lndtana Cleveland 
NBA Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
w L 44 7 39 12 33 18 24 26 22 28 
Central Division 
34 18 25 26 24 28 18 35 
16 36 
13 39 
Western Conference Midwest Division 
w 1,. San Antonto 32 22 


.250  21  Cleveland 99. Dallas 96  
Milwaukee 126. Delro1t 121. OT ·  
Ch1cago 117. lnd1ana 113  
Phoemx 111. Kansas C1ty 1 02  
Pet.  GB  Utah 112. San Antomo 101  
590  Boston 1 08. Seattle 1 00  

Dallas 25 25 Kansas C1ty 25 26 Denver 25 28 
Pet. GB Utah 19 34 863 Houston 10 41 770 5 Pacific Division 
647 11 Los Angeles 38 11 480 19.5 Portland 30 21 440 21.5 Phoenix 31 22 Seattle 28 24 
654 Golden State 21 30 .490 85 San D1ego 17 36 462 10 
340 16.5 Yesterday's Results 308 18 Ph1ladelph1a 116. Denver 95 
• • . Panthers 
boasts one of the leading scorers in the nation in while Hofstra is leading in the East Coast Conference. 
With five ofthe team's six remain­ing games to be played at home, Phelps emphasizes the need for stu­dent support at et•ery game as the team makes its push for an NCAA bid. 
"The students really came out and helped us in the South Carolina game," said Phelps. "We can't look ahead to DePaul (next Saturday) and 
neither  can  they.  We really  need  
their  help  against  Akron  and  
HofStra."  

IRISH ITEMS -Vaughan, the Big East's leading scorer. led Pitt with 17 

points, four below his average. Johnson finished with 13 and Allen had 11 .... Kempton finished with 11 and John Paxson had 10 for the Irish .... ND ended a six-game Pan­ther win streak in the Civic Arena .... The officials for the game -Jim Bain, Ralph Rosser, and Bill Herzog-were all from the Big 10, a fact that the crowd of 11,127 didn't miss. Next year's game in the ACC will feature three Big East offi­cials . . . Talk about balance: the 
starting team of Paxson, Varner, Kempton, Sluby and Dolan each scored in the early minutes, giving ND a 10-4 lead. 
..C(IQowe~ fptr aQQ occagto"g" 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway 232-3354 
T H E U N C 0 M M 0 N S ""'''ll!!!!!!!!!!!!t 
BEER 
still meet at CARRY 

WINE OUT LIQUOR 
COMMON'S 
FAMOUS FOR ITS BURGER! 

MUSIC FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY 
3 HOURS OF DANCJN6 FOR $150 "JCHJANAS LARIEST "OBJLE ~SIC SERVICE REQUESTS TAKEN 
~ 

MUSIC MACHINE BUD HALL 679-4043
-'2 


.....­
FRIDAY, FEB. 18 9:30pm •••BE THERE!!! 

the field while canning an uncanny 66 percent ( 21-for-36) of its own shots. 
The Irish now return to ND to begin preparations for next Mon­day's and Tuesday's potentially­tough games against Akron and Hofstra. Akron was a winner over Murray State earlier this year and 
• • • Bob 
continuedfrompage 16 
and where they are going. 
"Everyone has gotten a chance to play as if they were seniors. When you're a senior, you're aware of it being your last year here. Well, everyone is aware of it here. They (the Administration) pulled the rug from under our feet. Everyone is mad and playing mad. We want to prove to the Administration that they made a mistake. We want to go out winners." 
Applications are now available for Student Government Judicial Coordinator, at the Student Government offices. 
Questions contact Kevin Stierer 
239-6778 
r-mi;";~;i~;-ottl,;~rt;1 
I ',_ /-"' Haircut, Shampoo, I I Blow Dry, & Condition I I Reg.$15 I 
54533 Terrace Lane, S.B. N $S SQ 1
IAcross from Martin's on St. Rd.23 OW . WITH COUPON 1 H I $ I
Tues, Wed, Sat 8:30-5:30 .

I Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30 alrcut on y 6 c~~:~NI 
._272-0312 277-1691 I
HAIRMUSTBEWASHEDDAYOFCUT 
----~-----------------~------,
Now that you've seen "Brubaker"... 
· TOm ffiURTON 
prison reformer whose story was depicted in the movie 
"8RUBAH~8" 

will speak on the future of the penal system and the movie. Thurs. Feb 17 8:30PM esc Bldg. 
S.U. series on the future of American Society 
L----------------------------~ 

BOUTONNIERS &CORSAGES for The President's Dinner on sale 
Tues., Wed., & Thurs., at dinner in North & South 
Corsages: White, red, yellow Carnation-Baby's Breath $3.00 Red Rose with Baby's Breath $4.00 Boutonnieres: White Carnation $2.00 Red Rose $3.00 Red Rose with Fern & Baby's Breath to carry $4.00 
Delivered Saturday Morning 
r 
The Observer Thursday, February 1 7, 1983 -page 12 
UNLV missing on ballots 
Tarkanian upset at coaches 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. (AP) -Jerry The 42 coaches on UPI's panel as implying that past violations were Tarkanian says he can understand vote for 1 5 teams. The 64 AP voters a fanor, saying, "I wouldn't vote for why his fellow coaches won't go rank 20 teams. Wichita State, either." along with the nation's sports Tarkanian said yesterday he knew Wichita State, No. I 5 in the AP writers in ranking his Nevada-Las ofno animosity that would cause the poll, is ineligible for the l.IPI poll by Vegas basketball team No. 1. four coaches to discriminate against agreement with the National As­
But not to rank the Runnin' Rebels him or the school. sociation of Basketball Coaches of 
• at all? That's what four coaches did Harshman, who refused comment the United States because it is on and Tanian says that it had to be to the AP and hung up the NCAA probation for recruiting viola­"for a purpose and that bothers me." telephone, was quoted by the Times tions. 
The Rebels, at 22-0, the only major undefeated team in the country and No. I in The Associated Press poll of sports writers and 
• • • Roundup
broadcasters, had to settle for No. 2 in United Press International's coaches poll this week. 
fouled again.
continuedfrom page 16

Indiana, 19-2 and second in the AP 
This time he made the two foul poll, leaped from fourth to t first in ginia is second at 8-2 in conference shots with 12 seconds left to give the UP! poll despite getting only play. 
Minnesota its final margin ofvictory. three first-place votes to 28 for 
Maryland, 1 5-6 overall and 4-4 in Cincinnati still managed to get off Nevada-Las Vegas. 
the ACC, trailed 46-40 at halftime three shots before the final buzzer Lou Carnesecca of St. John's con­but took the lead for keeps with a sounded, hut couldn't get one to fall firmed that he. was one of the I 3-point string to go up 55-48. in. coaches who left Las Vegas off his 
A three-pointer hy North Wilson had I'f points to lead the l 1Pl ballot. The New York Times Carolina's" Matt Doherty broke the <iophers, 12 in the second half. Min­~ identified the others as Digger string, but the Terps added another nesota's 7-foot-3 center, Randy Phelps of Notre Dame, Marv eight in a row to make it 63-51 and Breuer, scored only four points, Harshman of Washington, and Stan they extended their lead to 69-54 none in the second half, ending a 25­
Morrison ofSourhern California. with I 0 minutes remaining. 
game string in which he had scored joe Carnicelli, UPI's executive Branch picked up his fourth foul in double figures. sports editor, would not identify any with 13: 13 left and went to the The Gophers were in trouble ofthe four because the voting is con­bench with I 2:26 left and Maryland 
from the beginning. After Minnesota fidential. 
on top 63-51. scored 11rst, Cincinnati came hack "Morrison and Marv Harshman 
with I I unanswered points. It took really bleep me off," Tarkanian said 
the Gophers until the final minute of
Minn. 49, Cincinnati 46 

yesterday. "They're two Pac-1 0 
the first half to get the lead back at coaches. All year long there's been 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) Min-29-2H. talk about our league being as tough 
nesota guard Marc Wilson scored Also in double figures for Min­as theirs. That's what it stems from." 
the Gophers' final four points to give nesota was Roland Brooks with 12 UNL V is a member of the Pacific 
them the lead and the edge they points. Leading the Bearcats was Coast Athletic Association, which in­
needed to pull out a 49-46 victory Kevin Gaffney, who had 14 points, cludes Fullerton State, Utah State, 
over Cincinnati last night in a non­followed by Dwight Jones with 13. San jose State, Fresno State, 
conference college basketball game. California-Irvine, Long Beach State, 
Tht victory snapped a three-game 'Nova 64, Providence 58 tions and Mike Mulquin chipped dropped to 9-4 in the conferenceUniversity of the Pacific and 
losing streak by Minnesota, which with a three·point play as Villanova, and 16-6 overall. 
~ California-Santa Barbara. 
boosted its record to I 5-6. Cincin­PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) -John which upset North Carolina 56-53, Aft ter trailing 38-27 at the half,Tarkanian, who votes in the UP! 
nati fell to 11-12. Pinone and Stewart Granger had hiked its record to 18-4, including a Ohio rallied to tie it at 53-53 on apoll, said he rated his Rebels No. 4 Cincinnati had held the lead off four free throws apiece in the final league-leading 10-2 in the Big East. 15-foot jumper by John Devereauxthis week. 
and on for most of the game and minutes last night as eighth-ranked The Wildcats were outshot 25-23 with 6:42 remaining. However, the"If they would've ranked us lOth, most of the second half. The Gop­Villanova held on for a 64-58 Big in field goals, hut had the edge in Bobcats appeared to run out of gasthat would be fine," Tarkanian said. 
hers took a three-point lead early in East basketball victory over free throws. after that."But ifthey left us out ofthe Top 15, 
the second half but, with 18 minutes Providence. David Elliott hit a layup to put thethen they did it for a purpose and 
left, Cincinnati assumed command Villanova led 51-45 with 6:58 WMU 65, Ohio 59 Broncos back on top 55-53 with
that bothers me. 
and held the lead until the final remaining and then was given a 6:21 remaining and Western Michi­"Anybody can have judgment. If 
minute. KALAMAZOO, Mich. (AP)-Cor­
scare as Providence pulled to within gan never trailed again.they would have seen some of our Then, down by one point, Wilson dell Eley scored 22 points to lead
one point on two free throws by Carl Kelvin Oliver added 15 points for 
games, people would say we weren't 
drove inside and scored on a layup Western Michigan to a 65-59 upset
Hill and a three-point play by Keith the Broncos, who won only their
good. That wouldn't bother me. But basketball victory over Ohio in a
to give the Gophers a 47-46lead. He 

Lomax with 5:42 to go. third MAC game in 13 starts whilewe're 22-0 and that's enough con­was fouled and missed the free However, the Wildcats slowed Mid-American Conference game last improving to 'i-18 overall.sideration to say we're in the top 
throw, but came back after Cincin­the pace and went into a stall, for­night. 
15." 
nati had missed a shot and was The Bobcats, the MAC co-leaders Devereaux finished with 14
cing Providence to foul. who knocked off DePaul on Monday points for Ohio and Nate Cole added
Pinone and Granger each came night, appeared flat and tired as they 12 points. 
through on 1-and-1 free throw situa­
~ ~RIDGfl ~cGUIRf'S~ 
~ 
·­


EARN OVER s;1000 A MONTH. 
AND OPEN THIE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEEFtiNG FUTURE. 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join the company after graduation'? Under a special :'-Javy program we're doing just that. l t's called the :'\uclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. And umlcr it. you'll not only get great pay during your junior and senior ~·cars. but aftl'r graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
If vou arL' a junior or senior majoring in maLh, engineering or physic<il scit>nceS: find out more today. And let your career pay off while still in college. 
For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: 
1-800-382-3782 


Thursday, February 17, 1983 -page 13
The Observer 
Streak snapped 
Peeters loses bid for record book 

BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) -Boston goalie Pete Peeters Jet in a long slap­shot from Gil Perreault 12 minutes into the game and lost his bid to tie the National Hockey League record for consecutive games without a loss as the Buffalo Sabres edged the Bruins 3-1 last night. 
Perreault fired the slapper low to Peeters' stick side. Phil Housley and Brent Peterson scored for Buffalo and Rick Middleton for Boston in the third period. 
Peeters entered the game un­
beaten in his last 31 starts -26-0-5. 
The record of 32 straight games 
without a loss is held by Peeters' 
coach, Gerry Cheevers. 
Both teams came out tight. The 
Sabres, playing with seven rookies in 
the lineup due to injuries to veterans, had trouble breaking out of their own zone, picking up open men in front ofthe net and setting up on offense. 
Boston, which had beaten the Sabres five straight times this year, failed to convert on several good scoringopportunities from in close. 
Perreault's goal came on a power play from the point. It fired up the Sabres, who were anxious to beat the team they may face first in the playoffs. 
Buffalo, playing with as many as five rookies at the same time, started diving to make saves, racing to create breakaways, and scrambling for position in front of Boston's net. 
Five minutes into the second period, Peeters was forced to his knees in his net as the Sabres un­corked several hard shots from just outside the crease. 

The winning goal came 43 seconds into the third period when Peeters, whose roving style had helped set up Boston's offense all season, skated to the face-off circle 
, and fell down. Sabres right wing Mal Davis picked up the puck and whipped it to Housley, who heat Bruin defen­seman Mike Milhury with a wrist shot after Milbury stepped into the cage to cover for Peeters. Peterson scored an empty net goal with I 1 seconds left in the game after he won a face-off in Buffalo's zone and skated the length ofthe ice. 
Middleton scored Boston's only goal at 4:47 into the third period when he tipped in Tom Fergus' shot behind Sabres goalie Bob Sauve. 
Looking for gold medals 
Russia conducts genetic tests 
MOSCOW (AP) -Soviet scien­on's greatest Olympic heroes, ing physical education courses. 
tists are conducting genetics tests including high jumper Valery Brum· Several hundred foreigners from on infants to identify potential gold mel, ice hockey stars Valery Khar­countries closely allied to the Soviet medalists in Olympic events lamov and Alexander Yakushev, and Union annually attend coaching dominated by young athletes. figure skater Irina Rodnina. clinics at the institute, and there are 
Studies of genetic markers in The school's 68 Olympic gold shorter programs ofstudy for sports children -blood groups and skin medalists and 68 silver and bronze­specialists from North America, types -are part of the sports medal winners comprise the largest Western Europe, and elsewhere. research program at Moscow's State such group ofthe Soviet Union's two Practical work tor Soviet students Physical Culture Institute, the dozen sports universities. includes teaching Moscow school country's leading school for athletes Among the medalists are many kids who have shown promise as 
and coaches. Soviets who were groomed from budding athletes. The institute also 
The 2,000 fulltime Soviet students childhood for Olympic competi· operates an evening sports program 
are taught by a faculty of 460 at the tions in the country's 6,000 junior for 1,000 youngsters. modern campus in northern Mos­sports schools. Sports morphology -the selec­cow. The plant includes 19 gym­The current crop of students in­tion of athletes on the basis of 
nasiums, a stadium, ice rink, indoor cludes some fin( prospects for the biological maturity rather than age running tracks, shooting ranges, 1984 Los Angeles Olympics in fen­-is a big area of research, officials classrooms, and laboratories. cing, women's field hockey, men's said in interviews with The As­Communist Party slogans basketball, track and field, and other sociated Press. 
decorate the hallways, underlining sports, institute director Vadim 
Soviet determination to keep tur· Menshikov said. Soviet scientists try to identify 
ning out "state athletes" who can Students can specialize in one of children who could benefit the most 
outperform rivals from capitalist 17 sports disciplines, including gym· from early training at elite schools 
countries. nastics, track and field, boxing, by studying inherited physicial 
Among the institute's 30,000 wresting, basketball, soccer and ice traits, X-rays of body parts, and 
graduates are some ofthe Soviet Uni-hockey, or earn a diploma in coach-typing of muscle fibers. 

While you're in school, you'll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and years of scholarship assistance received. 
As an Armed Forces physician you'll receive officer's pay and benefits, and enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. You'll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology. 
But most important, while you're in medical school we'll help pay the bills. For more information, send in the coupon. There's no obligation whatsoever. 
~es~int~d ~eiv=ore~ma~bo~Ar~orc~alt,
Professions Scholarship. I understand there is no obligation. (OS) 
For more information mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box C 1776, Huntington Station, NY 11746
I I 
Check up tot: .fee: ArmyD Navyo Air ForceD

I I
Nam Se><--'-L--F (please pnnt) 
Addres Apt
I I 
c, Stat Zi Phone( 

Enrolled at• Schoo
I I 
.. (Month. Year) I Togra-duatein• ----Degre -L, ___ gooo..I 

The Saint Mary's basketball team won its fourth game in the last five tries last night against DePauw. The win was the Belles' ninth on the year, one more than last year's total. (Photo by Lucian Niemeyer) 
:IIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIH.........IIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIItHIIIIIHI, 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
Junior parents weekend registration in LaFortune 
1 Thurs. Feb 17 7:00-10:00 pm I 
I Fri. Feb 18 12 noon -9:00 pm I 
I (moved to Century Center dance) 1
1 9:00pm -12:00 am 1 
I Sat. Feb 19 9:00am-12 noon • 
,-----------------------------~ 
1-----------------------------~ 
Packet may be picked up by either student or parent 
lllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii...IIHIIIHIIII...II...III..........IIHIHIIIIIIII~ 

Aerodynam1cs  Computatwnal Fluid Dynamics  
Aeroelastici ty  Computer·A1ded Design  
Bioengineering  Propulsion  
Combustion  Structural Dynamics  
Structures-Composites  

Individual Tuition & Fees are $1,452 per calendar year. Total financial aid per calendar year: $13.452 Center of Excellence in Rotary Wing Aircraft 
Fellowships $14,452 Lockheed/Georgia Tech Research Assistantships $ 7,500-Research Assistantships 
$10,000 
All graduate students will participate in research. For further information contact: Dr. A.L. Ducoffe, Director 
School of Aerospace Engineering Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia 30332 (404) 894·3000 
-t' 



·-------------------­
The Observer Thursday, February 1 7, 1983 -page 14 

Dougber~y bas started to take over some of tbe leadership of tbe women's basketball team. Tbe sophomore guard bas tbe respon­sibility ofcontrolling tbe tempo oftbegame and beroutside shoot­ing is necessary for the success of tbe team's inside game. Mike Sullivan profiles Dougherty on this page. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
~. What are you doing for Spring Break? come... ~
I~,o60\\\ \)"'""\•~'~~~~> ,o-. I 
i (.0 ~\l6e\'\\ sot\\'\9, ~ ~ i "'"eS 59o'C\ .) 
r steamboat springs, colorado ~ 
Trip includes: ~1 
. ,_ ~ 5 fun days and 6 wild nights Wine and Cheese Party ri Luxury condominiums with fireplaces and jacuzzi is J \ Quality equipment rentals for a low orice St. Patrick's Day Party ~ 
c Join in the fun--stop by the S.U. and sign up!! ~ l Deadline for signups is Feb. 11 .J 
.......~...............,....,..........,_....,.....,.....,_.~~.......~....,..~ .................~....... 
SPRING BREAK IN. . • . 
FT. LAUDERDALE 
Package Includes .... 
8 Days, 7 Nights First Class Hotel accommedations in the Heart of the Famous Ft. Lauderdale Strip on the ocean. 
Welcome Party with Free Refreshments. 
Complete program of optional activities. All taxes and service charges. 
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL: 
$159perperson 800-325-0439 
HURRY ... SPACE LIMITED!! 

Offensive leader 
Dougherty s1tarts to take charge 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
.\ports Writer 
The outside threat. The shooting 
guard. 
No basketnafl team can succeed 
without someone to keep the 
defense honest. If the defense is 
allowed to sag into the middle and 
take away the inside game, a team 
might as wdl pack up and go home. 
Tim Kempton, for instance, would not have much luck if it were not for the outside shooting ofjohn Paxson and joseph Price. 
To be effective, the inside game needs someone who can pump in a few from outside or penetrate and dish off a pass to someone with good inside posit t ion. 
Laura Dougherty is that outside threat for the Notre Dame women's basketball team. 
lt is her job to keep the defense from collapsing on Mary Beth Schueth and the other front-line players who score the bulk of the points. She controls the tempo ofthe Irish offense and adjusts it to the op­ponents' defense. Naturally, her per­formance plays an important role in the team's performance. 
"Right now, she's the guard we look to for shooting and leadership on the floor," says Coach Mary DiS­tanislao. "We get a lot ofpoints from the inside game, and, if she can come offscreens and hit a jumper, we're in good shape. lf she doesn't, and if there is good inside defense, we're in trouble." 
More often than not, Dougherty fulfills her duty. She is one of three players on the team averaging in double figures. Her 73 assists is a team high and her 27 minutes-per­game is the second highest. 
The statistics do not teJJ the whole story, however. 
lt is Dougherty's job to control the tempo of each game so that it will be favorable to Notre Dame. And Notre Dame's game is a patient one in which the brunt of the 
3/20/83 


scoring load is picked up by Schueth and the other inside players. 
"My responsibility is to pull the ball outside, check out the defense, and then ge11 the hall inside," ex­
plains  Dougherty.  "The  other  
players look  to me  to  open it  up  
inside.  

"As long a~ I take the shots, the defense ha~ got to play me. Once I've spread the defense out, I should be able to kick the ball inside." 
Dougherty, a S-1 0 sophomore from Hillsdale, N.j., is part of DiS­tanislao's t1rst big recruiting class. Teamed with Schueth, Ruth Kaiser, ~arrie Bates, and this year's fresh­r'han class, she plays a major part in the future of the program. 
"She's one of those kids we wanted to build the program with," says DiStanislao. 
With the graduation of seniors Debbi Hensley and Shari Matvey at the end of the season, Dougherty's on-court and off-court leadership will be badly needed if the team is ever going to become a national power. Nev,~rtheless, like the bas­ketball program, she is still growing into her role as a team leader. 
"She's not offering quite as much leadership as I had hoped at this point," admits DiStanislao, "but as we can exp,~ct her game to come around, we can expect the rest. 
"Laura has a lot of savvy on the court. There's no doubt about that. But it just doesn't come to you ­you have to go after it." 
Dougherty is starting to realize that her strong leadership means a lot to the team. 
"I'm looked to as a leader," she says. "The others look for me to con­trol the tempo. 
"I'm not a real verbal leader, but I'll point to someone who made a good pass and I do a lot oftalking to the kids on the court. I like to give positive rt:inforcement." 
Her posit1ive thinking is going to come in ha111dy as the team heads down the stretch toward a possible 
~JU 1~~~~~~~~::«Kl.S_. 
j Go skiing for the night a.~." • l!j "th tlh S d U ~ I Coty 
/

~ WI e tu ent n.on. ~CadoUa< "' 

... 

~ ~~ 
~ ~agrna~· · 
I ) ~·
.Where? Swiss Valley Ski Resort in Michigan ..... c....s·~::n:r~, ~ . When? This Friday, Feb. 18 .,,nAnn IIWhat time? 5pm--11:15pm Ii How much? $12 includes lift, rentals, and transportation I 
i Tickets are on sale at the record store, 1st floor, LaFortune I 
..()MC<)IICI<)OIQ(~~~'=~;~~-~ 
~ 
~ 
GUADALAJARA 
SUMMER 
SCHOOL 
University of Arizona offers more than 40 courses: anthro­pology, art, bilingual educa­tion, folk music and folk dance, history, political sci­ence, sociology, Spanish lan­guage and literature and mten­Sive Spanish. Six-week ses­sion. July 4-August 12, 1983. Fully accredited program. Tuition $400. Room and 
board 10 Mexican  home,  
$425.  EEO!AA  
Write  

Guadalajara Summer School Robert l. Nugent 205 University of Arizona Tucson 85721 (602) 626-4729 
NCAA Tournament bid. A '12-point loss to No. I Louisiana Tech last Friday was not a good way to start, hut now the team must bounce back in what may turn out to be the most important weekend of the season with games at Bradley and Illinois State. 
"We can't forget about it (the loss to Tech)," says Dougherty. "We have to take it, look at the films, and see what a super team does. We have to learn something different from each loss. 
"We have to prove it to Coach, and we have to prove it to ourselves that we are better than the team that lost by 42. 
"We know that we have to be the best in the Midwest to get a playoff bid," continues Dougherty, who is the team's third leading scorer at 11 points per game. "We have to finish stronger than last year (when the team lost the last five games of the sea'>on)." 
Like any athlete, Doughuty ad­mits she likes a challenge. In fact, that is one of the reasons she decided to come to Notre Dame ­to be part ofthe foundation ofa new program. 
She and her teammates have quite a challenge ahead of them. They are one step -a win over a ranked team -from national recognition, but are finding that the last step is the hard­est. Under the leadership of a player like Laura Dougherty, the team will no doubt keep trying and not give up 
-the chase. 
"I get more satisfaction from bringing a team from nowhere to somewhere than from bringing a team from terrific to a little better than terrific," says Dougherty. 
With some help, she has already brought the team from "nowhere" to "somewhere." Now she can work on making the team "terrific." 


Ihe_~======================================= 
T0 d~x==============T=h=u=r=sd=a=y='=F=e=b=ru=a=ry=l=7='=1=9=8=3==p=a=g=e=I=5 

17 Fish:pref. against Oscar 33 Step 18 -colada 49 Elementary dela-34 Succinct 19 Equable particle 35 Desert 20 Garage job 51 Fruit DOWN green spots 23 Firearm drinks 1 Uraeus 37 Prods 24 Navy man: 52 Extinct 2 Great 39 Official 
abbr. bird narrative seal 25 Ten: pref. 54 Signal 3 Impetuous 42 Snooze ..,.,....-+---11----l 29 Forward color . 4 Indian of 43 Kind of 32 Fracas 56 Progress! Peru soup-+--+---1 36 Makes 63 Boast 5 -out 48 Reflections amends 64 Region (making do) 50 Church 6 Plunder instruments
Wednesday's Solution 
7 Norsegod 53 Variegated
=-+--+-+--l 

8 Rat to the chalcedony cops 55 Kitchen 
9 Aver gadget 10 Reluctant 56 Black bird 11 Nottaped 57 Tug 12 Currier 58 Press 

and-59 Sleuth 13 Make Wolfe leather 60 Change 21 Ms. Moran residence 
of tennis 61 Elysium 22 Bespangle 62 Spanish 25 Russian painter©1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
villa 63 Business 
"•T ~ 'C,tomc1efee1ure!l 1983
All Rights Reserved 26 Allen or name abbr. 
"What? ... They turned it into a WASTEbasket?" 
2117/83 Frome 66 Depot: abbr. 



knior Bar Gl} come out anb Rock w1th the eneRGY o~ OetROJt's ~•nest ... 
SponsOR€b By Stub€nt llnJOn llilS rn10ay, f€B. 18 9:30-Wh€n€V€R!

Bloom County 

Fate 
,.-------..., 


I't1 GriVIN~ lAP (~INC:. ANYH\IN~ FOR lfNf? 
Aif YOU C:.IVIN(r Uf 
SA<.K To THE' ~0011 DtUNK AND SICK. EVER'{ WEEKEND. 


The Daily Crossword 
MR. BINI<i£Y, 1HM'5 
1HE:: 511NKI£5T E:XCllst I'VE: 
£1/£R HE.ARP FOR fX-TIING 
OUT OF AGWM£TRY £XAM. 
OOSITOO~. 

~IVIN' UP THE ~fW: HUH? 

ACROSS 38 Bridge seat 
1 Bird nest 40 Energy org. 
6 Betsyor 41 Mom'sjob 
Barney 44 Owns 10 Touched 45 1st, 2nd, 
ground or high 14 Paddle 46 Monkey or 15 Entrance paint 16 "-Zapata!" 47 Those 
Berke Breathed 

P555T.' 

WHIIT'51H( 
PYTHA00RE.AN 
1HWRE.M? 
Jeb Cashin 

NNt, I JIAST AI NT· COMI N' 81£1< TO THE ROOM. 
65 Area and 27 Move with· 
zip out power 67 Libertine 28 Traveler's 68 Ripped stopover 69 Chrisof 30 Pola of the 
tennis silents 70 Hooters 31 Hero of 71 Bible name Father's 72 Designer Day 
Campus 

•12:I5 
p.m. -Faculty Forum, Gene Corrigan, Edward]. Cronin, and Michael A. DeCicco, Library Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Foreign Studies Information Presentation, Rms 420, and 423 Ad. Building 

•6:30 
p.m. -AIESEC Meeting, Lafortune, Little Theatre 

•7 
p.m. -Classical Guitar Recital, "An Evening ofSpanish and Latin American Music for the Classi­cal Guitar," Prof. John Akers, Stapleton Lounge 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Film, "The Harder They Come," Chautauqua Coffeehouse, ·sponsored by NDSU, SI 

•7 
and 9:30 p.m. -Social Concerns Film, "Atomic Cafe," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Government, S I 

•7 
p.m. -Discussion on Lebanese Situation, ISO Lounge, LaFortune 

•7:30 
p.m. -Discussion, "Life After Gradua­tion," Prof. Clark Power, Library Lounge 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting of the Faculty Senate, 202 CCE 

•8 
p.m. -Art Lecture, Gerhardt Knodel, Annen­berg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Human Rights Policy of the Reagan Administration, Ms. Teresa Tull, Carroll Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Chicago Symphony Orchestra, WSND·FM 88.9 

•9 
p.m. -Open Stage at the NAZZ, 


. T.V. Tonight . 
8p.m. 16 Fame 22 Magnum PI 28 Condo 34 All Creatures Great and Small 
9p.m. 16 Gimme A Break 22 Simon and Simon 28 Too Close for Comfort 34 Mystery 
10p.m. 16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 Sneak Previews 
llp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Quincy and McCloud 28 ABC News Nightline 
The Far Side 

--~-·-~--------·~­
.--------~------·-~~-----~-~ ~---·---­
Homecoming star 
Varner leads Irish past Pitt 
By RICH O'CONNOR friends." Dan Duff, who was fouled by Joey Sports Writer But, despite Varner's efforts, the David. game wasn't over yet. Duff hit both free throws to give 
PITTSBURGH -Finally able to Pitt closed the margin to just one the Irish some breathing room at 42­win its second consecutive game on point with II :37 to play as Johnson ;\8 with eight minutes left. • the road, Notre Dame, led by a 21-tipped in a Clyde Vaughan miss. Af­Matt Miklasevich hit a 1 5-foot point performance by Bill Varner, ter a Notre Dame miss, Pitt brought baseline jumper to narrow the lead defeated Pitt 60-S-t at the Civic the ball up the court with a chance again, but Varner followed with his Arena hne last night. to get its t1rst lead of the game. fifth layup of the night and was 
It was the second straight 20-plus­But Billy Culbertson was called ti>uled by Miklasevich, allowing him point pcrform:mc t e for Varner in for charging, and Varner took a feed to complete the three-point play and front of hb hometown fans in the from Dan Duff on the subsequent give the Irish a 4'i-40 lead. Another Arena. Before ht· came to Notre Irish possession to give the Irish a Varner layup on a nice pass from Tim Dame, as a senior in high school, Var­40-;\7 ·~dge with J0:;\9left to play. Kempton and two free throws by ner scored 29 points en route to A tillltl shot by Pitt's George Allen Jim Dolan brought tht· lead to 49-42 MVP honors in tht· Dapper Dan Clas­narrowed the lead to 40-;\8, but two with 3:4! left to play. sic. minutes and two Pitt offensive for the game, Varner shot 9-for-
The senior from New Kensington, charges later, the Panthers had not 1 0, including an unbdievablc six Pa., was unquestionably the: MVP of been able to capitalize and 'move in­layups. As a team. Notre Dame sank this game, too. to a tie. seven layups and did not attempt a 
It was the second-half heroics of Vamer didn't give them another shot from outside I 0 feet in the Varner that held off all Panther chance. After intercepting a long 
See PANTHERS. pa~e II

comeback attempts and allowed the pass UJP court, Varner passe,d off to.. Irish to return 10 South Bend with----·-------------------------­
the important win. After Notre Dame had moved out to a 26-22 halftime lead, Varner 
UJNC, Hoosiers are 
opened the second half with a 10­foot jumper, being llagrantly fiJllled by the Panthers' Trent Johnson in 
vi<:tims of upsets
the process. Canning the two free throws, Varner completed the un­BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) -triumph over the Hoo~>iers this year. usual ti.>ur-point play, giving the Irish Greg Stokes scored 22 points and Iowa, now 7-S in the: Big Ten, also their biggest lead of the game at that Bob H:msen snapped a tie late in the got a 12 points from Payne and 11 point, W-2.2. game and then protected Iowa's slim from Carfino. Payne also held Ted 
"Billy has done a lot t<Jr Notre lead with two free throws in the Kitchel. the leading scorer in the Dame basketball," said Irish coach closing minute as the 16th-ranked conference, to just six points.
Bill Varner, shown here driving toward the basket against Vil­
Digger Phelps. "I'm happy that we llawkeyes edged second-ranked In­Wittman hit 16 of 19 shots for In­
lanova earlier this year, was the star oflast night's wiu oz•er Pitt. 
could schedule a game just for him diana S8-S7 in a Big Ten Conference diana, which still holds a ont"-game
Varner scored 21 points in his homecoming game. Rich O'Connor 
here, and have him come home and basketball game Ia.~t night. lead in the Big Ten with 9-3 mark. 
gives more details about the game at the right. (Photo by Ed Car­
play so well in front ofhis family and Hansen broke a SO-SO tie with The game was close throughout
roll) 
4:.~0 left in the game when he the first half and neither team could canned a 10-foot jumper. The Haw­gain more than a four-point lead. keyes extended their lead to four a~ The halftime score wa~ tied 28-21:!.
Leadingplayoffdrive 
Michael Payne added two free Iowa broke a 32-32 tie early in the throws with':\:30 left. second half, running off a 7-0 spurt. Indiana. 19-;, cut the margin to They led 41-34 before Indiana
McNamara saves best for last 
54-S2 on Randy Wittman's baseline retaliated with a 8-0 run to takt> a 42­jumper with 2:41 left in the contest. 41 advantage.
By STEVE LABATE gelled into a good unit since the games. Still, McNam;£ra is not overly However, Iowa, 16-6, inched the
Sports Writer return of mjL•red Sean Regan. impressed. margin back to tour on free throws
"The defense is u:-oe of the biggest "They're not as good as they've by Steve Carfino and Mark Gannon. Maryland 106, UNC 94
Ninety-five shots. factor~ in tuming this season been playing," t he says. "I think The Hoosiers' Jimmy Thomas
No, this is not the average number around," he remarked. "The biggest they're pretty heatable, and we'll be I made ilc S6-54 with 1:07 remaining, COLLEGE PARK, Mel. (AP) ­
ofshots taken by NBA gunner Lloyd turning po~nt was when "Regs" catching them at a good time." hitting two free throws, but Hansen Adrian Branch sank consecutive
l Free in each game. (Regan) came back. We needed a Ohio State is currently tied for added two free throws with 39 three-pointers to igni[e a 29-8
Nor is it the number oftimes WBC standout and Regs is an uutstanding second in the CCHA standings, and it boxing champ Larry Holmes hit Ran­defenseman." is the Buckeyes that Notre Dame second!i remaining to give Iowa a Maryland streak at the :;tart of the
~ 
~econd half and t1nish:.d with 24

dall "Tex" Cobb in their December Unlike the first Bowling Green hopes to face in the playoffs. But no S8-S4 kad. bout. series in late November in which the matter who plays the Irish in the first Wittman, who finished the game points as the Terps whipped third­But if you attended last weekend's Falcons broke loose for many two­round. opponenb better not take·_ wi1h~3 points, hit a three-point field ranked North Carolina L J6-94 in an Notre Dame hockey series against on-one and breakaway oppor­them lightly because it is an angry goal with six seconds left, and the Atlantic Coast Conferer.. e game last~ Bowling Green, the answer is ob­tumttes, the defensemen made Notre Dame team that takes to the Hoosters had one more chance to night. win afte·r Hansen missed the fir-;t ofa It was the second consecutive loss
vious. Ninety-five is the number of McNamara's joh easier last weekend ice these days. one and one free throw opportunity. for the Tar Heels, 21-5, ..nd their first
Falcon shots that Irish goalie Bob by getting bac!,. in their zone quickly McNamara sized up where the ACC defeat. They arc 8-1 and Vir-
McNamara blocked, kick-saved, and forcing tne l'alcons to take 1982-83 players have come from However, Iowa stole a Winston
caught, covered-up, and steered poorer shots. 
See BOB, page 11 See ROUNDUP, paKe I2
Morgan pass to protect its secondaside. "The defense gave me a good look 
The result of his labors was a tie at the shots that were being taken," on Friday night, a win on Saturday said McNamara. "Most were from night, and CCHA player-of-the-week the blue line and those are fun to honors on Monday. stop because you get a chance to see 
"I've had good games before," said them better." McNamara, "but I've never put two Although the Bowling Green together like that. The performances shots were numerous and moments were the best of my career" of rest were few, McNamara ha.~ no 
All told, McNamara stopped 9'5 complaints. In fact, he prefers the ac­out of 102 Bowling Green shots on tivity. goal, making his save percentage for "The game is much easier to play the weekend an impressive . 9 31. in ( wht>n there is a lot of action). If I 
However. the highlight of his bril­only get 18 shots a game, it's much liant weekend was the first period of harder to concentrate." Friday's game when he prevented 27 Up until this past wt>ekend, out of 28 shots from entering the McNamara has been a little disap­cage. The 27 saves were only three pointed in his season. Although his short of the Notre Dame record for play has been consistent at times, he saves in a period set by Dick has been prone to give up the easy or Tomasoni in a 1969 contest against soft goal. Wisconsin. "I've had some really good games 
McNamara attributes his play to and some poor ones too," he admits. better concentration. Although the team's season can be 
"It is so hard to concentrate in characterized the same way, it ap­every game you're in," expifined the pears that both McNamara and tht· Toronto, Ont. native. "Whfn I don't Irish are putting things together at concentrate 100 percent, my perfor­the same time as they continue their mance isn't I00 percent. I was in to drive toward the playoffs this it right from the warmups on Friday weekend against Ohio State in and I didn't stop concentrating until Columbus. the end ofthe weekend." The Buckeyes took a pair from State. Steve Labate reports on McNamara's 
He is quick, however, to give Notre Dame in mid-December and thoughts and actions as he nea1s the end ofbis credit to his defense which has have only lost one of their last 20 Notre Dame career in his story to the left. (Photo bv Paul Cifarelli) 










