~--------~-------------~ ---­


VOL. XVII, NO. 103 the indt·pcndcnt ;,tucknt ncw-,papcr "t'l'\ ing notrt· d.tme and ;,aint mar, ·' WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1983 

Chicago mayoral primary 
Washington defeats Byrne 
CHICAGO (AP) -l'.S. Rep. behalf of the people of Chicago the "At this moment, this election is Harold Washington, propelled by a nomination a~ the Democratic can-too close to call," Byrne, the incum­heavy black turnout, upset incum-dictate for mayor in 198:1," Washing-bent mayor. told her supporters bent .\tayor Jane M. Byrne early ton told cheering supporters early shortly after 12:30 a.m. today. She today to win the Democratic today at his headquarters. told them to go home and go to bed nomination in his hid to become Former state Rep. Bernard Epton -and wait for final results from the Chicago's t1rst black mayor. was unopposed in the Republican election board. 
A third candidate, Cook County primary, and will face Washington Daley, a leader in early returns, State's Attorney Richard M. Daley, on April 12. A Republican has not was the first to concede defeat in his conceded defeat in his campaign to won a Chicago mayoral race in 50 bid to follow his father into City Hall. claim his famous father's old office, years. The late Richard). Daley was mayor and Mrs. Byrne went to bed after tel-Washington had captured the sup-for 21 years. ling her supporters the race was port and imagination of black voters "We all worked hard. but now it "too close to call." with his crusade-like campaign. An looks like our campaign has fallen 
Amid allegations of vote fraud, Associated Press-WMAQ-TV poll short," Daley said to shouts ofdisap­
U.S. marshals yesterday were or-~howed he captured more than 80 pointment from supporters at his dered to impound all ballots after percent of the votes cast by blacks, headquarters. they were counted -as possible whose ranks were swelled by a evidence in criminal prosecutions. major registration drive beginning 
Up-to-date results-page 3 
With 2,859 of 2,91o.i precincts last summer. reporting, the results were: Wash­ington. 410,780, or 36.2 percent; Mrs. Byrne, 380,840, or 33.5 per­cent; and Daley, 339,277, or 29.9 
Reagan offers security 
percent. The remainder was spread among minor candidates. Washington's lead of29,940 votes 

for Israeli withdrawal 
was less than 2 percent ofthe record 
1.1 7 million counted early this WASHINGTON (AP)-President U.S. troops, probably as part ofa mul­morning. Election officials said the Reagan declared yesterday he has tinational force, upon a specific re­outstanding votes were in two reversed a "truly alarming" decline quest and if their use was an overwhelmingly black wards, in America's global influence, and of essential part ofan agreement. including Washington's home ward fered to flex that renewed muscle by Speakes sought to play down the on the city's South Side, and scat­insuring Israel's border security if it president's statement, saying it was tered precincts around the citv. quickly pulls all its troops back from no change in U.S. policy. "We have 
"I proudly and humbly acc~pt on Lebanon. emphasized all along that the 
"This administration is prepared security of Israel's norchern border to take all necessary measures to is one of the principal goals which guarantee the security of Israel's the United States believes negotia­northern borders in the aftermath of tions must attain," he said. the complete withdrawal of the Is­The spokesman added it was one raeli army," the president said in a of "many, many options, none of

Sobriety test refusal equals guilt 
speech to the American Legion. which has been decided upon." WASHINGTON (AP) The He stressed, though, that "True Speakes said he did not believe
Day O'Connor wrote for the court. ruled that states may force Supreme Court told the states yes­suspected drunken drivers to take peace can only evolve through free­Reagan made the public assurance
"The carnage caused by drunk terday they can fight the "carnage drivers is well documented." sobriety tests and they may suspend ly negotiated agreements, not solu­because the Israelis had requested it. caused by drunk drivers" by using a About 25,000 Americans are driver's licenses of motorists who tions imposed by force." motorist's refusal to take a sobriety killed each year in accidents caused refuse to take them. Reagan called again for Israel, Reagan told his audience that test as evidence ofguilt. Syria and the PLO to withdraw their before he took office, America
by drunken drivers, and the problem In yesterday's decision, the court 
The court said such a refusal "is is not a new one. said that states also can use the ap­forces from Lebanon "in the shortest "simply ceased to be a leader in the not protected by the privilege She referred to a 26-year-old proach South Dakota chose -to dis­possible time." Similar pleas over world," and her weaknesses fostered against self-incrimination." Court opinion that lamented: "The courage motorists from refusing to the past months have gone terrorist attacks and a reputation for 
Returning from a four-week increasing slaughter on our high­take such tests by using the refusal unheeded. unreliability. Reagan gave no details of how the
recess in a flurry of paperwork, the ways, m'ost of which is avoidable, against a suspect at trial. Strengthening the United States justices also: United States would guarantee the
now reaches the astounding figures position in the world, Reagan said, 
• Agreed to decide whether the only heard ofon the battlefield." Justices John Paul Stevens and borders: His spokesman, Larry began with eftorts to restore the government may continue collect­The court had Speakes, said one option was using economy and bolster U.S.
high previously Thurgood Marshall dissented. military ing billions of dollars under the might. He deemed his S239 billion windfall profits tax on oil. The court 198-1 defense budget, widely will review a ruling by a federal 
criticized in Congress, as necessary
Sophomore Liter~ry Festival
judge in Wyoming last year that the 

t~ that effort. tax is unconstitutional. "Now I realize that many well­
• Let stand a ruling that strips meaninj! people deplore the ex­Parker Bros. of exclusive use of the 

Lopez makes emotional return 
pew'~.Lire ofhuge sums ofmoney for name "Monopoly" for the toy ollilitary purposes at a time of manufacturer's most popular board By PAM RICHARDSON "Garry Trudeau and I ...owe our "Searching t!>r Ancestors." Lopez economic hardship," Reagan said. game. and PAT MALLEY lives to Jim Andrew's belief in said that his experiences with a "Similar voices were heard in the 
•Ruled ....,_2 that public television Sews Stajf us, "said Lopez. scientitk expedition investigating 1930s when economic conditions stations are not automatically re­Lopez read "Trying The Land." a various Indian groups led to this 
were far worse than anything we are quired to provide additional cap­Environmental writer and fictional account of two hikers' walk journalistic account of explorations experiencing today. But the result of 
tioned news for the deaf and hearing naturalist Barry Lopez, dedicating through the great !'lorth Oregon of ancient Anasazi Indian settle­
heeding those voices then was a dis­impaired. even though they receive his readings to a fellow Notre Dame woods. and followed it with ments in the Grand Canyon area. 
astrous military imbalance that government aid. graduate, last night made an emo­Lopez showed he is not restricted 
tempted the forces of tyranny and 
•Said they will decide whether tional return to his alma mater as to writing about the land by reading a
evil and plunged the world into Grove City College students can part of the Sophomore Literary Fes­a love story entitled "The Women 
ruinous war .. receive federal loans even if the tival. who had Shells." .The president again called on Pennsylvania school won't comply Lopez, who received his Bachelor "I spent so much time with 
Arabs "to accept the reality of Israel with federal paperwork. The deci­of Arts degree in 1966, addressed a animals that people say I hate 
and the reality that peace and justicesion could carry lasting repercus­large and enthusiatic audience at the people," joked Lopez. "That is not 
are to be gained only through direct sions for federal efforts to fight sex Library Auditorium. true. I love human beings -they're 
negotiation" as he urged in his 1982 bias in education. "This is obviously a very special a great species." 
peace plan. In the drunken-driving case, the moment for me to come back to the Lopez closed with a selection jusuces reversed 7-2 a South Dakota place where I was a student,"said from Winter Court entitled "Geese He said King Hussein of jordan Supreme Court ruling that had Lopez. who Flew over a Storm." The story "should be supported in his effort to banned as trial evidence a driver's The 38-year-old author dedicated was inspired by his life-long respect bring tr bether a Jordanian­refusal to take a sobriety test. the readings to fellow alum James for teachers. Palestinian team to negotiate the State and federal courts had split Andrews, editor and tounder of the The author lives with his wife in future of the West Bank, Gaza and on that constitutional question. International Press syndicate. the wilderness ofOregon and is cur­Jerusalem." Reagan long has urged "The situation underlying this Andrews died of a heart attack two rently at work on another book. Hussein talk with Israel and case -that of the drunk driver -years ago. Lopez credits him with Lopez will hold a workshop in the Secretary ofState George Shultz said occurs with tragic frequency on our encouraging a number of artists, Library Lounge today at 1:30. The last week there is a "reasonable pos­nation's highways," Justice Sandra including cartoonist Garry Trudeau. festival continues through Saturday. sibility" Hussein will do so. 


r 
Wednesday, February 23, 1983-page 2


NewsBrie_b 
By The Obserwr and The Associated Press 
Four AFROTC students have received Air Force scholarships that will pay all educational expenses for medical school and provide a S556 each month as allowance. Karen Joyce, Mike Johnston, Chris Demaioribus and Eugene Bonventre, all from Notre Dame. were commissioned into the Air Force Reserve as win­ners ofthe scholarships. -The Obsen•er 
A}} but One Of the 2 3 school districts in St. Louis County agreed yesterday to settle the city's 1 1-year-old desegrega­tion dispute, clearing the way for the first comprehensive voluntary busing program between a large U.S. city and its suburbs. Under the agreement, up to 15,000 black students in the city would be bused to suburban schools in the county, beginning next fall. U.S. District Judge William Hungate gave the schools until March 24 to work out details. The agreement was forged on the eve of a hearing in Hungate's court to determine the liability of predominantly white suburban school districts for the segregation ofpredominantly black city schools and to determine a remedy, if necessary. Hungate waived the hearing for the 22 suburban districts which agreed to participate. The Riverview Gardens district, the lone holdout, faces a hearing April 11. Riverview Gardens, which has about 5,060 stu­dents, already has a black student population of .f2 percent: The superintendent, Ed Benton, declined to comment on the board's reasons. -AP 
The Supreme Courtyesterday let stand a ruling that protects the financially troubled Manville Corp. from some suits by victims of asbestos-related diseases. The court refused to hear an appeal by three companies challenging a bankruptcy judge's ruling that at least temporarily shields Manville from the suits. Manville, the nation's leading manufacturer of asbestos, has filed for protection from its creditors under federal bankruptcy law. The company con­tends it could be forced to pay at least li2 billion over the next 20 years if it loses the pending asbestos suits. Last August, Bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland of New York City restrained individuals and companies from proceeding with any suits against Manville. The ruling applies only to cases in his jurisdiction and not the thousands ofother cases elsewhere in the nation. The companies in yesterday's case are users ofasbestos and are themselves being sued by victims ofasbestos-related diseases. They claim they should not be put in a position to bear the full brunt of the damages while Manville is protected. -AP 
There's no pie-ill-the-skywishfulness about the 
$7,200 in cash banked yesterday by the organizers ofa LaPorte, Ind., jobs promotion stunt. People Involved in Employment, or PIE, has the cash in its bank account, and another 57,500 has been pledged for the benefit of 2,500 unemployed people in LaPorte. The cash came from pie-eating contestants and others who paid 5.3.35 apiece to pitch pudding-filled cream pies at agreeable local politicians and businessmen. LaPorte businessman Randall A. Weiss, who organized the pie party, said receipts will be used to match unemployed people with elderly or handicapped residents who need household jobs done and lack the funds to hire someone. The goal ofthe sponsoring group was 533,500 -enough to provide 10,000 hours of mini­nmum wage work for the county's jobless. LaPorte County's un­employment has been nearly 17 percent in recent months. -AP 
A woman who died of cyanide poisoning in Hil­lsboro, Ore., committed suicide, the district attorney announced yesterday. The death Jan. 4 of Patricia Bennett, .31, prompted the Food and Drug Administration to scour store shelves in the Hil­lsboro area just west of Portland for contaminated bottles of Maxi­mum Strength Anacin-.3. No other contaminated capsules were found. Capsule fragments were found in the woman's stomach. Relatives said she had taken Anacin-.3 capsules the evening before she became ill and traces ofcyanide gas were found in the bottle. No other contaminated capsules were found in the container. Washing­ton County District Attorney Scott Upham described Mrs. Bennett, of Hillsboro, as "extremely unhappy" before her death. He said her marriage had been deteriorating for a year. Upham said she com­mitted suicide with cvanide she had taken from Portland Com­munity College's Sylva~ia campus, where she was a security gbard. 
-AP 

King Fahd of Saudia Arabia has ended a 
worldwide hunt for the perfect bathtub in a Manitoba, Canada, granite quarry. The 60-year-old king has ordered more than 60 tons of red granite from an eastern Manitoba quarry to build a royal bathroom, George Lewko, a part-owner of Midwest Quarries Ltd., said Monday. "It'll be a solid tub," said Lewko. About seven tons of rock will be used for the tub, he said, with the rest for the vanity and walls. Lewko said the tub will be 9 feet long and more than .3 feet deep. In September, a New York contruction t1rm hired for the project flew to the quarry headquarters in Lac du Bonnet, 60 miles east ofWinnipeg, said Lewko. The deal was completed in November. He said the granite was trucked to Montreal and sent by a ship to Italy for sculpting and polishing. After it is completed in April, the tub will be shipped to the Saudi capital, Riyadh. Lewko refused to give the cost of the granite. -AP 
Keep that winter coat handy_, for tem­peratures will only reach the low to mid <~Os today, dtppmg mto the low to mid 30s tonight. Partly sunny during the day, followed by cloudy skies this evening. Mostly cloudy and cool tomorrow. High around .fO. -The Obseruer 
February in South Bend? 
Correct me if I'm wrong, but we are still in February. 
Aren't we' And this is South Bend, isn't it? 
Let's see -February in South Bend. That is not a 
pleasant thought. When I think about February in South 
Bend, I get the chills. Literally. 
February is usually the dreariest month of the school 
year. Everything on campus is frozen -the lakes, the 
ground, the social life, and the cars. The temperature 
remains in the teens or below, and the wind chill factor 
is almost always below zero. Valentine's Day can barely 
thaw the hearts of most Domer!>. 
February is also one ofonly two months (September 
is the other) which contains no vacations. So, since 
most people dislike cold weather and ~choolwork, 
February has many enemies. Most stu_ nts would 
prefer a double-Emil to the prospect of t;.• s long, cold 
month. 
So again I ask -is February over? Did it ever arrive? 
Or am I dreaming again? 
For the past ti>ur days, the 
harsh vision of February in 
South Bend has been no­
thing but a memory. The 
weather has been fabulous 
-nothing but sunshine, 
blue skies, and warm tem­
peratures. 
And smiles. Plenty of 
smiles. 
The campus came out of hibernation this past weekend. Nearly everyone took advantage of the un­seasonable weather. The quads were alive as students forgot about academics in order to release a winter's worth of energy. People 
played football, basketball, . 
lacrosse, baseball, frisbee, etc. Others just watched. A few early spring flings even blossomed. In any case, everyone was as warm and pleasant as the weather. 
The good cheer wasn't confined to just the weekend, either. Somehow that Ho'clock Monday morning class wasn't as dr~aded as usual because ofthe expectation of a bright afternoon. The thermometer rose to new heights that day, guaranteeing a few empty seats in af­ternoon classes. Students didn't even mind doing homework as long as the quad could serve as the study lounge. 
Mother Nature may have killed the first annual "Snow Week" festival at Saint Mary's, but she revived spring fever. And few are complaining. 
I enjoyed the weekend as much as anyone. But in reflecting on the joys ofa happy campus, I had a disturb­ing thought. What would the past few days have been like if this were a typical February? The answer is ob­vious -this would not have been a happy place. People 
The Observer 

Design l:'tlitor.... . .. Tim Nt."dy 
DesiRn AssistantDave: ··ncvott.•d" Rohin­!'!On 
/.<iJ''"'t.\tajf. ................ Troy llli~ 1)•pesetters.. .... Rc~git.· & Tom ,\'eu•s Editor..... . ...... Mark \X'orschc:h CofJ)' l:'tlitor .... . ... Diane Dirkt.·r~ Features l.t~t·oul .. ~arah llamilton 
Editorials Layout..... .Tari Brown .\jJorts CofJJ' Edilur... ...... :\1ikc Hiccardi 
NJ) IJay l:'tlilor ... ... . .....J:~m: Panfil .\ll1C /Jay l:'tlifor.. .. ...... Tim Pctlt:rs Typists ... ... B<.:tsy & who know~ who dst· Ad nesip,n... .. ... Paul Slota 
Pholo}!_rapber. ..... Ed "Early Bird" Carroll Guest AjJ/Jt'llrances .... Early .\1arilyn, Thc 
Award \X.'innt·r, Dzavt" t:l Ia lapin, .lt"h. 
Louie, Lauric Reynold!\' life. l>c:nm~. ~ul­
livan. 
and . . .sent the cue ball }~J'illJ.: tuu•urcl .liars. 

F===============~~~ 
The Observer tUSPS .598 8201 1s published Monday through Frtday and on home foutball Saturddys excepl durtng exam dnd vacalton pertuds The Observer rs publiShed by the students of Notre Dame dnd Samt Marys Col· lege Subswpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year tS 15 per seme~ter) by "'"t1ng The Observer P 0 Bux 0 Notre Dame tnd1ana 46556 
The Observer •s a member of The Associated Press All reproductton ngnts are reserved 
Second ctass postage Pd•CI at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
54533 Terrace Lane, 
South Bend (Across from 

(Hair must be washed day of cut)
Martin's on S.R. 23) 
TUES., WED. 8:30-5:30 THURS., FRI., 8:30·8:30 SAT. 8:30-5:30 

272-0312 277-1691 
David Dziedzic 
Executive News Editor 
Inside Wednesday 
would be complaining about nearly everything. Classes, homework, social life, and (of course) weather would he the sources of most complaints. 
Does the weather really have such a dramatic in­fluence on our actions and attitudes? Unfortunately, it does. Think about it. Have you ever seen anyone moping while at the beach on a sunny day? Or have you ever seen anyone smiliRg because the picnic was can­celled due to rain? The weather can make or break a day. 
But the weather is not the only element which has a profound effect on our ac­tions and attitudes. The op­posite sex, for example, often controls our lives. The mere hope of seeing a cer­tain member of the opposite sex can prompt a person to 
·wear different clothing. Then, when in that person's company, one begins to speak in an uncharacteristic manner, and to act strangely. A personality change as sud­

den  as  a  tidal  wave  can  
result.  
Money  is  another  ex­ 
-. ~  -. _, _ ample.  Some  people  

J.-:.~....-become so obsessed with 
making money that they compromise many of their values. The obvious ex­ample is a person who enters a profession only for the monetary benefits without regard to his own happiness. 
And don't forget those upstanding individuals who end up doing time for taking a bribe or for getting involved with embezzlement. 
No, I'm not a philosophy major, but still I wonder why people can't be themselves. Why do they let outside factors intluence them to such great lengths? 
And no, I'm not advocating stoicism here. Nor am I studying B. F. Skinner. 
I guess I'm just bummed out because it's raining today. 
February stinks. 

~igltts oftQt Qiastlt 
Haircut Shampoo Blowdry & Condition Reg. $15 NOW $8.50 with coupon 
Haircut only $6 with coupon 



Corby's 
"Wednesday Night Special" 
Performing Live 


''Par Three'' 
10pm-2am Draft Pitchers $2.95 all ni 
--~......""' 



----------------------·--------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, February 23, 1983 -page 3 

HPC hears debate over SU change 
By DAVID F. TRACY opposition to ·one another. IIt: said. Seu•s Stajf ''I don't want you to look on this as a power ~truggk, rathn look at it as a 
The Hall Presidents Council. 'marriage'." continuing its role as a campus Reynolds, along with commis­courtroom. last night listened to sioners John Kelly and Linda representatives of the the Student Powers, feel that the proposed Senate and the Student l·nion debate changes arc a waste of enerb'Y and the proposed constitutional amend--will not have any real henellt. ments changing the Student l nion's IIPC's establishment as an arena of name and restructuring its Steering debate began three weeks ago, when Committee. representatives of FLOC and 
The amendments were passed hy Campbell's met to discuss the the Senate on Monday, but must be boycott referendum, since passed approved by two thirds of the hall by the student body. councils before entering the con-In other IIPC business, council stitution. Voting will take place this president Mike McAuliffe an­week, and the results tabulated at nounced budget allocations for the next Tuesday's HPC meeting. halls. One-hundred dollars is the 
After the amendments were maximum amount available to each presented by Student Body hall, he said. Treasurer John Eichenlaub, Student Housing Council Commissioner Union Commissioners Bart Jorge Valencia asked the presidents Reynolds argued against the passage to encourage attendence at the off-of the amendments. "The Senate a!-campus open house, rescheduled · ready has a say in how the Student for Tuesday, March 1 in LaFortune Union spends its money. The Stu-from 12:00 to ;:OO P.M. The date dent Union's budget must be ap-was changed from this Thursday at proved by the Senate," he said. the request of landlords who found 
Eichenlaub responded, "The the day more convenient, according Senate approves the budget at the to Valencia. beginning ofthe year but has no con­trol over what it is used for after it is The South Bend Police Commis­allocated." sioner and Director of Student 
Eichenlaub argued that changing Residences Father Michael Heppan the Student Union's name and alter­will join the area landlords in atten­ing its structure was an attempt to dence. McAuliffe reiterated the im­let the students know that Student portance of the open house, saying, Government and the Student Union "There is a very healthy chance are working tO!!ether rather than in there will be a lottery this year." 
Subcommittee agrees to SS rescue plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A House subcommittee tentatively agreed yesterday to raise payroll taxes, curb benetlts and force new federal employees to JOIO the Social Security system as it pieced together a rescue plan for the giant retire­ment system. 
The actions by the House Ways and Means panel would yield S165.1 billion in savings or new revenue through the end of the decade and substantially embrace the bipartisan 
recommendations of the  National  
Commission  on  Social  Security  
Reform.  

Without recorded vote, the sub­committee tentatively agreed to: 
• Force federal employees, employees of non-profit organiza­tions, members of Congress, Presi­dent Reagan and Vice President George Bush to join the Social Security system in 1984. The plan states that it is Congress' intention that a supplemental pension system 

Termed 'suspicious' in San Antonio 
Grand jury investigating deaths 
They were all out of>iluer bullets yesterday at the Student Health Center, so freshman Elizabeth Huber settlesfor biting on her lip while receiving an innoculation from Dr. james E. Bowes, a St. joseph's Countv health officer. The shots are part of a free campus-wide immunization effort to prez•ent outbreaks of diseases, such as measles and mumps, which hlwe occurred at regional uniz>ersities. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
be added for new civil servants in ad­dition to Social Security. 
• 
Delay theJune cost-of-living ad­justment for six months. 

• 
Impose a levy on retirees benetlts whose adjusted gross income combined with ;o percent of their benefits exceeds S24,500 for an individual and S31500 for a couple. 


Accelerate payroll tax increases in 1984, 1988 and 1990. 
The actions by the House Ways and Means panel are its first steps as it moved to put together a rescue package to bail out the troubled retirement program. 
While the actions are tentative, the subcommittee is expected to ap­prove them when it completes work on the package later this week. 
Conservative Republicans on the panel tried to modify or strike the provisions, but their efforts were turned aside by the Democratic majority. 

SAN ANTONIO, Texas (AP)-A grand jury is investigating the "suspicious" deaths of at least a dozen hospitalized infants who have been linked to the same licensed vocational nurse, two newspapers reported yesterday. 
The chairman ofthe county hospi­tal district !1romised later in the day to cooperate with any investigation of infant deaths at Medical Center Hospital. 
"\X'e have not had any evidence of wrongdoing in this institution," Dr. William Thornton said at a meeting of the Bexar County Hospital Dis­trict board of managers. 
"I believe there is a grand jury in­vestigation going on at this time," he said. "We are assistng the district at­torney's oft1ce in this investigation -even though we have found no­thing wrong." 
He said he hoped to disperse "the cloud hovering over" the hospital. 
The San Antonio Express News and theSan Angelo Standard-Times reported that the deaths being inves­tigated by the grand jury occurred in the hospital's pediatric intensive care unit from late 1981 to early 1982. 
All the cases involve "strange deaths of cardiac or respiratory ar­rest," the Standard-Times quoted sources as saying. 
The newspapers both reported that a licensed vocational nurse has been linked to all the deaths at that hospital and the death of a babv in Kerrville, ;o miles to the northw~st. 
A Kerrville County grand jury was reported to he looking into the death of one baby and severe respiratory problems developed in 
seven  others,  the Standard-Times  
reported.  
The  nurse  under  investigation  

went to work for a doctor in Ker­rville after leaving the hospital here, Thornton said. She has since left that position, he said. 
The district attorney's oftke ves­terday did not return s~veral calls. 
Before yesterday's meeting, Thornton told The Associated Press that the number of deaths in the in­tensive care unit was not necessarily out of the ordinary. . 
"That's not a playroom," he said. "That's a room full ofsick kids. Some are going to die. That's unhappy. But it happens. 
"Why do you consider one death suspicious and not another?" 
Bexar County Medical Examiner Vincent DeMaio said yesterday that he was notified of the "suspicious deaths" and passed along the in­formation to the district attorney's oftke. He declined to say who notitled him or to give further detais on the tip. · 
DeMaio said his oftlce would have had trouble beginning an investiga­tion because the cases were old. 
The Express-News quoted an uni­dentitled doctor on the statf of the hospital district as saying the babies were believed to have bled to death after the nurse allegedly injected them with Heparin, an anti­coagulant drug often used to unclog blocked blood vessels. 
Both Thornton and the uniden­tified doctor told the newspaper the babies in Kerrville were given suc­cinyl choline, a muscle relaxant that can cause respiratory arrest. 
South Bend Ave Store Only 



1 Day Beet Sale 
Beet prices Gte skyrocketing. You mGy never see prices this low GgGin 
I ""\ 
Case Carling 
;~l;~k ~:beJ 
~ 

Quarts-case 
Old milwaukee  J6.79  
Sud  J8.99  
millet  J8.69 

/Cas~ 
Case 

Lite J8.89
6pack millet) Colt45
1 

Sttohs J8.59
Sttohs Sock J6.79 Cans
\.\limit 1pet

J2.49 J7.39
person. 


~-----------­

The Observer Wednesday, February 23, 1983-page 4 

Queen Elizabeth II, Mexican President Miguel de Ia Madrid, Mrs. Paloma de Ia Madrid and Prince Phillip talk before dinner on board the 
Chemically contaminated 

Government to buy Missouri town 
EUREKA, Mo. (AP)-The federal government promised yesterday to spend S33.1 million to buy the entire town of Times Beach and move its residents to protect them from dioxin contamination. 
Environmental Protection Agency administrator Anne M. Bur­ford told reporters the EPA will pay for the immediate relocation of all the town's residents and businesses, with Missouri footing the remaining 10 percent ofthe cost. 
It is the first time the federal government has ever taken such a step. 
"This is the answer to all of our prayrs," said Evelyn Zufall, 49, who has raised seven children in the town. "It's what everybody wanted, except the very few who don't realize the dangers ..." 
Homeowners are to be paid the prices their homes would have com­manded before the dioxin contmna­tion was discovered, and before floodwaters damaged virtually all of the town's 800 homes and businesses. Officials expect to decide within two or three weeks how to determine what the homes' value were. 
Dioxin, a chemical byproduct of herbicide production, causes kid­ney, spleen and liver ailments in laboratory animals. Its effect on 

r·--------------------------------------·
Why Settle for a OJ... ? When You Can Have the Real Thing: 

Apex 
For information call: 

Dan 283·1849 
Mike 283·3555 
Live Rock & Roll for all your dances & parties 
·--------------------------------------­
1983 Senior Formal "The Main Event" April9, 1983 Palmer House, Chicago 
Information & Christmas Sales 


Refunds can be received at Lemans Lobby, Feb. 28, March 1 from 6-?pm and LaFortune Lobby, March 2,3,4 from 6-7pm 
The Picture Man 
presents 
JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND "Proofs On Display" 
Where: LaFortune Student Center 
When: Thurs., Feb. 24, Fri., Feb. 25 Mon., Feb. 28, Tues., Mar. 1, Wed., March 2. 
Time: 12noon-5pm each day 
South Alcove Room Bring Your Coupon for a FREE Picture 
humans is unclear. 
The chemical was mixed with waste oil and sprayed on streets in Times Beach and other towns to control dust a decade ago. The dioxin came from a plant in Verona, which produced the herbicide Agent Orange during the Vietnam War. 
The decision to buy the town was made because health oft1cials worried that soil in Times Beach posed a risk to the residents, said Burford, who remarried on Sunday. 
"Some of these people have been exploited by recent events," she told reporters as residents of Times Beach listened to her words, which were piped into an adjoining room at a hotel in neighboring Eureka. 
"This problem came to the dimen­

sion it did because of the floods," 
Burford said. "I don't know how we 
could have moved any faster." 
About 2,400 people lived in the 
village southwest of St. Louis until 

about three months ago, when the 
Meramec River flooded. 
As the floodwaters receded, the 

National Centers for Disease Con­
trol in Atlanta recommended that 
residents remain out ofthe town be­
cause technicians in protective 
clothing and respirators had found 
dioxin along the roadside at levels 
up to 100 parts per billion. 
Dr. Vernon Houk of the CDC said 
the highest concentrations were 
found beneath city streets, which 
have since been paved with asphalt. 
He said seven samples were above 
I 00 parts per billion, ranging up to 
about 300 parts per billion. 
That level equals those t<>und in 
nearby Imperial, another of 22 sites 
in Missouri now known to be con­
taminated with dioxin. The EPA has 
previously ordered the cleanup of 
sites containing only I part per bil­
lion ofdioxin. 



EPA awards contract to contro·versial firm 
W ASIIINGTON ( AP) -The En­vironmental Protection Agency sanctioned the award of a S7...., mil­lion contract t<>r toxic waste cleanup in Indiana to an Illinois tlrm which stood accused of trying to cover up its own pollution problems. The company was represented by a former consultant to the EPA's administrator. 
The contract to Chemical Waste Managemeni Inc. has come under scrutiny by Congress as part of a ballooning investigation into whether politics played a part in the "superfund" program to clean up dumps posing threats to the health of millions. 
Chemical Waste, of Oak Brook, Ill., is represented by Denver attor­ney James W. Sanderson, who for 15 months served as a paid, part-time consultant to EPA administrator Anne Gorsuch Burford. Sanderson removed himself from considera­tion for the No. 3 job at the EPA after he was accused ofimproperly aiding another legal client while working for the agency. The FBI is investigat­ing that allegation. 
Rep. James Florio, 0-N.]., who is one of tlve House subcommittee chairmen investigating the agency, has demanded explanations from Sanderson and Burford by tomor­row of Sanderson's ties with his clients while working at EPA. 
Sanderson said yesterday he did nothing improper and "I resent being dragged back into the follies in Washington." 
Sanderson said he had no involve­ment in the negotiations which resulted in the awarding of a con­tract to-Chemical Waste to clean up the Seymour, Ind., dump or the cita­tion issued against Chemical Waste's Lowry Landfill in Denver. 

The EPA is seeking a S48,500 fine against Chemical Waste for viola­tions found on an inspection trip to Lowry on Sept. 16 and 1 7. In a com­plaint filed last month, the EPA said Chemical Waste had violated federal regulations by not stopping a leak at one of its waste ponds and by not properly informing inspectors about it. 
In the September inspection report, EPA investigator Eric Finke said he was told by two Chemical Waste employees that the former general manager of the Lowry Landfill had instructed them to keep two sets cf books, one of them a blackcolored log to be shown to in­spectors that did not reveal the leak and a yellow-colored log that did. 
The employees, Brian Culvey and Gary Holcomb, were quoted in the report as saying that when they ob­jected to this arrangement, the manager said they could show the yellow log book containing the leakage measurements if inspectors specifically asked about them. 
Jeffrey Diver, senior environmen­tal counsel for Chemical Waste, said yesterday his company did not con­ceal any records it was legally re­quired to keep. He said two sets of books were kept because data that was not required by law was kept in 
r--------------------------1
l:he=Obset:Ver-has an I immediate opening for a I temporary clerk. I You must be: I 
I

•organized 
I I
•efficient 
I

• 
intelligent I I

• 
industrious 



I I I For further details ca/1239-7471 · I 


L-------------------------J 
a separate book. 
Chemical Waste contends that the liquids trapped between the two clay liners were not from thc wastc impoundment but from rain water trapped between the two liners, Diver said. In any event, he said, the company did not regard the liquid as a leak into the environment since it was still trapped by the second liner. 
Diver also said there was "absolutely no connection" be­tween the Seymour contract and problems at Lowry. 
He and EPA officials said the Seymour contract was not with the EPA but with 24 chemical com­panies who have agreed to pay to remove 60,000 drums and 998 bulk­storage silos of toxic wastes from one of the largest dumps in the country. 
"That contract between tlhe com­panies and Seymour was agreed to by a federal judge. It was the respon­sibility of the 24 companies to clean the site up and let the contract to do the work," said EPA chiefspokesman ClayJones. 
But Florio said EPA's approval of the agreement with the 24 com­panies was made after the EPA reviewed details of how Chemical Waste would do the cleanup job. 
"The fact that the EPA inspection reports have documented a deliberate and pre-meditated at­tempt by Chemical Waste Manage­ment to conceal the existence of leaking at their Lowry facility ...one month before the EPA gave the green light to Chemical Waste to conduct the cleanup of the site at Seymour, Ind., raises grave ques­tions about the agency's ability to insure cleanup," Florio said. 
Last June, Sanderson withdrew from consideration for a high posi­tion at EPA and returned to Denver following allegations that Sander­son, while working for Burford, spoke to an EPA official in Denver about possible changes in water regulations that would affect one of his clients, the Denver Water Board. 
EPA oft1cials have also confirmed that Mrs. Burford, after talking to Sanderson last month, speeded con­sideration of an EPA permit for­Chemical Waste· to operate the in­cinerator ship Vulcanus I 8 listed as one of the disposal sites for the Seymour wastes. 
Chemical Waste was also a major beneficiary ofa decision by Burford a year ago to lift a ban on the dump­ing of liquid chemical wastes in landfills. Burford reversed that deci­sion 28 days later after an uproar, but during the 28 days Chemical Waste was able to legally dump 1,500 barrels of liquid wastes at the Lowry landfill. 
Sanderson said yesterday he "walled" himselfofffrom any agency actions that would affect his clients during the time he worked as a con­sultant. 
"I have done nothing wrong. I notified people at the agency who my clients were and I said intercept anything that would involve them before it gets to me," he said. 

STUDENT DISCOUNT 
of~ ~~~b 
s ¥--s ce 'T 
o~'~ ~~IV~ 
20°/o OFF 
Good Mon-Thurs onlv 
STUDENT DISCOUNT w/Student I.D. Offer not valid with any 
other Aurelio's special discount or coupon valid at S.B.'s Aurelio's only. 
1705 S.BEND AVE./23 at edison 


----~---~-~ ---~-~-------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, February 23, 1983-page 5 
OPEC countries lower oil price amid surplus 
RlY.\DH. '>audi Arabia (.\P) ­

The I nited Arab Em1rate!'> declan:d 
OPEC's S~-1 ba.,e price dead ,.e!'>ter­
day .md '>audi .\rabia vowed to take 
any neces~arv measures to protect 
its oil wealth 111 the lace of a' global 
prin: war. 
The two countrit:s met with let­

low Persian c;utf OPEC me'mbcrs 
Kuwait and Qatar amid reports thev 
wert· con.,idcring slashmg the price 
of their oil as much as s-a barrel, 
ti>llowing a S'i.-;o cut b,· OPEC 
member ~igen<t and S5 cuts in 
'<orth Sea oil b,· non-OPEC mem­
btT!-> liritain and :-.Jorwav. 
Qatar's oil minister. Sheik Abdul Aziz bin Khalifa al Thani. s;ud, "For surt· there will be t a price cut ...a good chance of bv more than S-1." lk made the annoncement after a three-hour meeting at the -home of Saudi C)il :\<linister Ahmed Zaki Yamani. 
Yamani said earlier that Iraq and Libva were expected to join the ses­~ion today, which would decide on lowering prices and ori future ties with other members ofOPEC. 
Yamani declared that the Gulf Arab oil producers were "the prin­cipal power within OPEC," but did not specify what steps he envisioned them taking. Possible measures the Saudis could take include cutting production. lowering prices or both. 
In oil trading centers the spot price of crude fell more than s1 a barreL Saudi crude, which sells on contract at S5-! dropped to about S2..,.2'i on the spot market· from S2H.-=; a day bet<>re. Oil on the spot market is sold to the higest bidder, independent ofcontract prices. 
The oil mini,tt>r of the I Tnited .-\rab Em1r.lles. \lana '>aced Otciba. 

wid reporrer': "There has to he a 
price reductum, or ehc we shall be 
un:.1hk to prcscn-e our IIllcrest.' and 
nur m:.Jrkcts. if we _mamtain the 
prnenr'' OPEC base priet:. 
()t,·lba lkcbrnl bdorc lca-i·ing ior 

t{i\·:Hih that the 5-'. 1 OPEC 
benchmark wa~ "no longer cxi~tcnt'' 
in 1he wake otpri·ce cub lw .\Jigeria. 
Brnam .md "orwav. the 1>rganl.ta­
tlon of Petroleum Exporting 
Coumrie~· '-ew~ Agenn in \'icnna 
reported. 
Hut in speakmg ro reporters. he 

refused w ~pt·citv a figure or ~a,· 
whether the pnce cut would be J. 
"gulfcut or an OPEC cut.·· 
"These things are what we shall 

decide tomorrow." he ~aid. 
<)fticials in Algiers "ud an ex­traordinary meeting ot 0 I'EC re­quested by Algeria could take place as earlv as tomorrow. · 
Yamani told Bahrain's Gut/ Seu·s .-lgenCJ' earlier that his kingdom wa~ not prepared to take any more pricing infringements by OPEC. 
A price war would ultimately Lower gasoline prices, but a loss <;f oil revenue by Third World producers like :-.ligeria and Mexico would make it difficult for them to pay foreign debts. 
Each s1~a-barrel drop in crude pries works out to a 2-cent-a-gallon drop in the price of gasoline and home heating oil. But cuts in retail pnces also will be intluenced by competition, demand and other facors. Retail dealers sharply cut gasoline prices last year and may now wish to increase their profit margins. 

u·bo gm•e a reading r~f some ofhis u•orks Monda)' 
night. met thtb students in the Library Lounge yesterday afternoon. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
End 122-year schism 

Presbyterians vote to reunite 
ATLANTA ( AP) -Six Southern Presbyterian presbyteries voted yes­terday to reunite with their North­ern counterparts, paving the way for a tormal vote in)une that could end a 122-year schism started by the Civil War. 
Yesterday's vote culminate5 decades ofefforts to reunite the two Presbyterian denominations after they separated over the slavery issue shortly after the war began. 
Cites unemployment 

Reverend sees little rights change 
RICHMOND, Ind. (AI') "Everything has changed and no­thing has changed" in the 2'i years vears since the civil rights move­mt·nt began, the head of the South­ern Christian Leadership Conference said yesterday. 
The Rev. joseph Lowery of At­lanta,who has been head of the con­t'erence since 19..,7, spoke to Earlham Colleg~ srudents as part of the school's obserYance of Black Hi~tory :\<lonth. 
Lowery told them the median income of blacks in 19'i.., was about 'i"' percent that ofwhites. Today, the percentage has only increased to 'i8 percent, he said. 
L'nemployment among blacks ranges from 2'i to 2-percent and as high as 'iO percent among black youths. One out ofeverv three black families lives below the pon:rty line, said the former aide to the Rev. Mar­tin Luther King. 
"We ought to learn something from the .Japanese," Lowen· said. where the goal is a high quality oflife tor all rather than "the almighty God protit." 
~ Even a +~ percent I .S. jobless rate. the tigure generally acceptable to most economists, Leaves millions of people stuck in perm~nent pock­ets 1lf poverty. he said. 
"I can't be a communist. !love the Lord," he added. "But neither do I accept a system that is satisfied with the (economic) dbparity" among Americans. "There's something wrong with our system. While we've started up the mountain. we're only at the edge of the hillside. 
Lowery, who is the minister at Central Cnited ~lethodist Church, the oldest and largest black church in Atlanta. criticized both political parties. saying Republicans ignore 
blacks  while  Democrats  exploit  
them.  
Reagan  admin~tration  policies  

could result in "social chaos" if"Mt. St. Ghetto" cxp!{)(k~ with 1ts resi­dents' frustr~tions, he said. 
On affirmative action, Lowery said. "This nation has alv.·avs believed in preferential treatment until it got to be our turn. Then all of a sudden, it became immoral. Blacks and poor people arc not responsible for our economic illnes~." 
Seven shows make Top 10 
CBS regains Nielsen ratings lead 
LOS ANGELES (AI') CBS regained its lead in the television ratings during the week ending Feb. 20 after losing to ABC for two weeks during the run of the mini-series 'The Winds of War." 
Seven CBS series made the Top I 0 and the network took fir~t place in the A.C. "Jidsen Co. ratings for the tirst time in the Februay sweeps. ABC was back in second place and :\JBC was third. 
Although CBS has dominated the ratings, ABC won the tirst two weeks of February on the enormous ratings strength generated by "The Winds of War~" Last we'tk ABC's rating was twice that ofCBS and the mini-series took the tirst six places in .the ratings. 
CBS had a rating of 18.2 for the past week, ABC had 1-.'* and NBC had 16 . .3. The networks say this means that in an average prime·time minute 18.2 percent of the televi­
sion viewing audience was tuned to CBS. 
It was the I !th victory for CBS during the current television season. which started Sept. 20. ABC has won tour weeks and NBC has won three weeks. For the season to date, CBS has a rating of 1H.2, ABC has 1-.6. and NBC has I 'i. 'i. 
The highest-rated show of the week was CB'.' "Dallas," and two other CBS shows. "60 Minutes" and "~1agnum, P~I.." were in second and third places. 
NBC grabbed fourth place with the opening chapter of its two-part adaptation of Sidney Sheldon's best­seller "Rage of Angels." Jaclyn Smith stars as the young lawyer who survives a scandal to rise to the top of her profession. 
ABC took tifih plal·e with "Who Will Love .\-ly Cluldrnl?," in which Ann-Margret made her television movie debut. She played a dying 
mother who gives her 10 children away to people: who will love them. 
:rwo new ABC comedy series, which snared high ratings hy debut­ing in the hour~ hdi>re "The WiAds of War" fell markedly last week. "Amanda's," which bowed in I I th place, dropped to ·i 1st place. "Condo" fell from 15th place to 50th place. 
Here are the Top 10: "Dallas," a rating of 2'i~H or 21.~1 million household~. CBS; "60 \!inures." 2-!.H or 20.6 million, CBS;" Magnum, P.l.,'' 2:S..~ or 19.~1 million, CBS; :-.IBC ~un­day Night :\1ovic. "Rage of Angels," Part I, 22.5 or IH. 'i million; ABC :\<londay :'light :\1ovie, "Who Will 
'Love \1y Childreni," 32.2 or IH.-!9 million; "Falcon Crest" and "The Jef­t'ersons," 22.1 or IH.-!0 million. both CBS. tied; "\1*A*~*H." 21.H or IH.I million, CB~: "The !.1 q· Boat," 21.6 or I7.99 million. ABC; "Simon & Simon," 21. 'i or L-.90 million, CBS. 
Three-quarters of the 61 pres­byteries, or regional governing bodies, of the Presbyterian Church in the United States were required to aprove the I 5-year-old plan to merge the Atlanta-based church with the predominantly Northern United Presbyterian Church in the USA. 
The six aflirmative votes yester­day boosted the presbyteries voting "yes" to the necessary -!6 to win passage~ Eight presbyteries have voted against the proposal. Seven presbyteries do not vote until this weekend. hut their decisions would not aflect the outcome. Southern church spokeswoman \larj Carpen­ter said. 
"Those of us concerned about mission to the ends of the earth 
celebrate the reunion of the Pres­byteriarr family in this country," said the Rev. Patricia McClurg, ad­ministrative director of the South­
ern  church's  General  Assembly  
Mission Board.  
The  co-chairman  of  the  Joint  

Committee on Reunion tor I_; years, the Rev.). Randolph Taylor ofChar­lotte, N.C., said the church needs to take advantage of the "season of excitement" to focus on "the future and on our mission together in this nation and the world." 
Both the Northern and Southern churches' General Assemblies voted last summer to submit the union plan to their presbyteries. The plan won approval of the necessary two­thirds of the "Jorthern church's 150 presbyteries on Feb~ l-1. 




Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
If IilLI tlunk IuJi:Ul liHid ~~!liSt spaglwttt :u1d pi1.1~1. 1\'l' I l' gol ;! Ill! llltiJ O[ll'lllllg t'\[1l'rit'lll'l' II aitlllg t( If I'I)U t'lt·n \\t·t~ll'.>tbl night trom 1:tHI IutHI p.m. at Till' !JHlK!Ilg t;h-;s I<l'staur:ull in tilt• South llt·nd \l:UTiott. 
llltroducing \\:una \brnotls -a h11u11 g11s/u :UT:ll of :UHlp:t-;ta. nmll'stn lilt'. t(·tturilll'. rarl'!atorl' h'a).,~ll'. IXL'ta :Uld ti lUI' Salll'l'S. L'ill'l'Sl'.~ hl'l':llb :UHitbSl'l'b 
It~ :til ~~·nwl up in :1 bttl t' ltalt;u1:ItillI 'spill'rl' dwckt·n·d tahll'l·lotli~. a stn dlitlg musiri:Ul­tilt• Ill lfk.\ 
-\11 1ou r:Ul l':tt ti wSh'l) Chlldn·numll'r I~ s~q-; 
Reservations Appreciated 
FREE CHIANTI 
,lust pn•st•nt thb ad to 1ottr \\ atlt·r am\ Wl'·u giw ynu a frl'l' bnttll' nf Chl:llill to t'llJ<II lltlh \lllif illl':ll ami kl't'jl tlw l~1ttle :L> a soun•nJr 
Offer valid through February 23, 1983. One coupon per table 
South Bt·nd/~arriott Hottl. 
125 :\.St. Joseph St.. South Bend (21<)) 2.)4-2000 
---~----~-----~----­
Wednesday, February 23, 1983-page 6


Editorials 
Nostalgia for the present 
Iflaughter is indeed the best medicine, then last weekend's campus showing of The Atomic Cafe may be the cure to nuclear war. In more practical terms, the film demonstrated America's fanatical yet naive preoccupation with the threats posed by atomic weapons in the 1950s. The film was chocked full ofold newsreels, defense depart­ment films, and television excerpts that produced a strange combination of humor and fear. Still, that description does not answer a more profound question -exactly what made the film so laughable? 

Thomas Melsheimer 
Essay 
Perhaps the most grisly humorous section of the film dealt with an Army exercise to test the actual battle effects of an atomic bomb used in the field. The soldiers in the experi­ment were to move as quickly as possible into the bomb blast area. While explaining the ramifications of the experiment to his troops, the commander reassuringly informed them that there were only three things to worry about in an atomic explosion: blast, heat and radiation. Casually putting aside blast and heat as typical effects of any bomb, he tries to ex­plain the dangers of radiation. He minimizes all the potential dangers of radioactive fallout and concludes that if a soldier is close enough to the bomb blast to receive enough radiation to cause something as serious as sterility, he will probably be killed by the effects of blast or heat anyway. So, as far as radiation is con­ce~ned, there is really not that much to worry about -it's not nasty after all. 

This scene, and others like it, makes the audience laugh presumably because it seems so quaintly naive. Everyone now knows and accepts the grave dangers of something like radiation and no amount of propaganda will convince Americans otherwise. It is almost like thinking back with mild amusement to childhood beliefs about the Tooth fairy or the Easter Bunny. How could we have bet·n so sil­ly? 
The film's treatment of the elaborate protections many Americans undertook to in­crease their survivability in the event of an atomic attack seems equally amusing. Given the incredible speed of today's Soviet mis~ile delivery systems, the incredible logistical problems involved, and the growing belief that a nuclear exchange could not be limited, most people today look on civil defense measures like "duck and cover" as an attempt to drain the ocean with a teaspoon. Today's Americans can laugh because they feel more rational, more intelligent, and more "civilized" than the people of the late 40s and early 50s. Ofcourse, the threat of nuclear war remains real, but our ability to look back 30 years and laugh suggests a certain degree of refinement, a certain degree of progress. 
Yet that typically American smugness masks the potentia!Atomic Cafe scenes taking place in the 1980s. llow long ago was it that a Reagan administration oftkial argued th<lt America's survivability in a nuclear war would be dramatically improved if every American was equipped with merely a shovel and a place to dig? !low long ago was it that a Reagan official advocated the possibility of tiring a "nuclear warning shot" in the event of Soviet military rnanuevers in Europe? !low long ago did a Reagan administration oftkial suggest the po~sibility of a limited nuclear war in Europe? Just last year, did not President Reagan himself argue that the nuclear freeze movement in the United States was communist-inspired? And right now is not President Reagan himself attempting to force Senate confirmation of America's chief arms control expert? A man who, during commit­tee hearings called the very exercise of arms control a "sham"? Where is the laughter now? 
As suggested earlier, The Atomic Cafe provoked laughter in its portrayal of the Army's disingenuous treatment of its soldiers involved in atomic bomb experiments. But last Mondav's edition ofThe New York Times did not put an .article entitled "Widow~ Cite A-Test Effects" under the category of"Today's Chuckle." The article reports that a recent ~urvcy of familie~ of I00 veteran~ who par­ticipated in atomic tests showed 44 miscar­riages, 2:S still births, and 120 children with congenital birth defects. In the best Atomic Cafe fashion, the gm·crnment has rcpt·atedly denied that the exposure caused any deleterious effects. Black humor indeed. 
Clearly, the mentality presented in The Atomic Cafe has not disappeared, only "mutated" its form. Americans watching the tllm mu~t laugh nervously because while they see humor in the ignorance, naive simplicity and paranoia of the 1950s, they realize that their informed intelligence and rationality has resolved the essential moral dilemmas as­sociated with nuclear war. The vocabulary has become more sophisticated -"nuclear" has replaced "atomic" and particular variety of weapon whethec it be the MX, the Minuteman, or the Cruise Missile. Yet are Americans of the 1980s any better off than their counterparts of the 50s' Probably not. A bit more informed, a bit safer because of a general thawing ofthe Cold War but not really "better off." If we need to look back into the past to laugh, we need only look into the future to tremble. 
With special thanks to T.j. Conley. 


P. 0. Box Q 
"Insulted" 
DearEditor: 
"Name withheld by request" stated in his or her "challenge to be pro-choice" article that pro-lifers, "receptiveness to and ob­jective attention for the needs and concerns ofpersons leading lives of hardship warrants serious questioning." 
I would like to seriously respond. 
Yes, it is true that I have always been open and attentive to the needs and concerns of people leading lives of hardship. For eight years, I have been actively involved with the mentally retarded and I have also worked with many outpatients. To imply that I, as a person who encourages a deep respect for the dignity of a human being regardless of what stage in life he or she is, do not "promote a truly affirmative quality oflife" is an insult to me as well as to many underpaid, overworked social workers. 
Since the landmark decision to close Pen­nhurst institution for the mentally retarded in the state of Pennsylvania, I have closely followed the pros and cons of the situation. To imp! t y that I have not intelligently dis­cerned the "best ways to promote a truly af­firmative quality oflife", insults me further. 
Finally, to state that abortion "encourages the process" of"individual responsibility in community matters" is untrue in my case. Let me assure you that abortion had nothing to do with my freely given time to the men­tally retarded. 
Mr.-Mrs.-Ms.-Name-withheld-by-request, you have truly insulted me. You have in­sulted my retarded friends whose "entitled" birth you question; you have insulted my in­telligence by implying that I have not "honestly evaluated" my deep reverence for human life; and you have most insulted be by inferring that the snuffing out of human life in some way imparts to it a truly affirmative quality. 
Thomas A. Selvaggi 


Republican reply 
Dear Editor: 
Recently, my organization, the Notre Dame College Republicans, was accused by Young Democrat Chairman Jim Malack­owski of a "huge inconsistency" in our deci­sion not to take a stand on the upcoming bilateral freeze referendum. Apparently, Mr. Malackowski and others feel that, since our campaign w defeat the unilateral freeze referendum implied support for a bilateral freeze, we are, therefore, obligated to sup­port the bilateral freeze referendum. Let me take this t opportunity to explain our position to Mr. Malackowski and anyone else who feels confused by this matter. 
First ofall, we never officially endorsed or implied support for a bilateral freeze in the recent campaign. On the contrary, our ef­forts were directed solely towards defeating the unilateral freeze. To do so, we circulated literature stating: I ) the dangers of a uni­lateral freeze and 2) the difference between "unilateral" and "bilateral". The latter is ex­tremely important because many peopie have understood it to mean that we were offering the bilateral freeze as our al­ternative to the unilateral freeze when, in fact, we were not. Instead, operating under the assumption that a great number of stu­dents would favor a nuclear freeze if they knew it was bilateral but would not favor it if they knew it was unilatt;ral, we sought to make sure that those students, many of whom did not know the difference between the two, did not mistakenly or unknowingly vote in favor of the unilateral freeze referen­dum. This can be easily seen by looking at our literature and press releases. Again, we neither supported nor implied support for a bilateral freeze. 
Second, while it is true that many mem­bers of the College Republicans do favor a bilateral freeze, I fail to sec how that forces us to support the referendum. The fact is that, while "many" of us favor the bilateral freeze, "many" of us oppose it. Our current situation is, therefore, no different than Mr. Malackowski's situation during the uni­lateral freeze campaign. Indeed, as he has in­dicated in The Ohsen•er, and to me personally, the Young Democrats were divided over that issue and chose not to take a stand. llypocricy, perhaps? 

Third, it b my opinion that the confusion in this matter could have been avoided if members of the coalition supporting the bilateral freeze referendum had approached us with an otfer to join them before launch­ing their campaign. To thb date, they have made no otkr to us, and suddenly we tlnd out that they are surprbed at our decision. I lad they approached us first, we could have explained our position to them rather easily. Instead, we arc compelled to defend our decision against the statements of those, including Mr. Malackowski, who failed to learn the whole story before shooting their mouths off. We would hope that future cam­paigns will not contain such "shoot first, ask questions later" statements. 
Mark Lynch, Chairman Notre Dame College Republicans 

Bengal Bouts 
Dear Editor: _ 
This week marks the 53rd annual Bengal Bouts, and by the number of students present at Sunday's quarterfinals, it seems that the NO campus hasn't heard about it. For those of you who don't know what the bouts are, I think it's time you found out. The Bengals Bouts arc probably the biggest an­nual student run charity drive. All the money raised from this event is donated to the Ben­gal Missions of Southeast Asia. Our popular ~logan is, "We tight to feed." What more worthwhile way to spend a few dollars, than to see some great boxing and at the same time, help in some small way to alleviate the worldwide problem of hunger. Last yt~ar we raised close to $25,000 to donate to the mis­sions. 
The boxing club has trained hard and sacritked much so that this event will be as successful as possible. We have spent many long hours practicing and getting into th best shape possible so that the great history of the Bouts will live on. If you have never attended this event, believe me, you will see some of the most exciting action present in the world ofathletics today. 
We are dedicated to the goal of helping others who are not as lucky as ourselves. The bottom line though is that the success ofthe Bengal Bouts depends on our fellow stu­dents. Get out from behind that desk or from in front of the TV set for a few hours. Come out and see what the Bengal Bouts are all about. The semi-finals are tonight at 7:30 
p.m. and the finals are on Sunday at 1:30 p.m. in the ACC. See you there! 
Tom Lezynski 


.. 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief........ ..........\\ichael Monk Business .Wanager.. . ............... Tony Aiello
The Ohserz•er is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l:ni­
Jlanaging Editor........ Ryan \'er Berkrnoes Controller................... ........Eric Schulz
versity of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It d<~es not necessarily retkct 
Executit•e .'Veu•s Edilor ............. David Dzinlzic Adt•erttsinJ.: .Hmwger..... .....Chrb Owen
the policies of the administration of eitl-ter institution. The news i~ reported as ac­
S.HC Ewcutit•e Editor .. .......:<.largaret Fosmoe Production .llmw~-:er . .............:\laura :\lurphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editoriab represent the opinion ofa 
.\jwrts Editor.. ...Chris :'1-Jcnlle~ Circulation Jlana~-:er ....... .............. Mark :\1iotto 
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict 
l:'ditorials l:'tlitor. .. .. Paul ,\lc(,inn Systems .Hmwger.......... .. .. Bruce Oakley
the views ofthdr authors. Column space is available io all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ..... Joe .\lusumt-ci
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through lcttns, is encouraged. 
l'boto l:'tlitor. ........ l{achl'i Blount Founded November 3, 1966 
(219)239-5303 


Asmall petfection 
the point of turning on your own frailty and wiping conversation. Ordinarily. I simply talk to myself, from the face of this, our mutual home. not only" the because the only one around to comment on the loon memory ofyour own fallen race but ofall the subtle per­
by the lake that talks to himself is ... well. me. fections inherent in Creation? "What's wrong with that chap'" I exclaim. "Probably a broken childhood," I reply rationally. Questions aren't easily answered when they Etc. transcend conversational expectations. Looking for a Needless to say.! bore myselfeasily and quickly. So as few conciliatory quacks I had encountered the 
I happened around the lakes early one February morn­questioning vehemence ofGod Himselfin the presence ing, I sought some new companions. ofa slight perfection. 
They were awake, as one might expect; it must be dit~ "Not a single sparrow shall fall to Earth lest He tlcult to sleep for too long on one leg. Several quacks know ... greeted me as I settled down on a convenient log and in­A while ago, the students of Notre Dame and St. troduced myself. The response was less than encourag­Mary'~ defeated a referendum demanding an immediate ing. The fact that ducks can't talk was a major hindrance; unilateral freeze on all nuclear weapons development. but there was some thing else between us, a barrier I Now there is a new referendum being presented to see 
ifthe temptation ofbilateral disarmament might at least Joe musumeci draw a positive vote. 
The reason there is much more hope, l suppose, that a second move might be passed is that we are a very dis­trustful lot. "Well, if the Russians will, we will too ..." 
looking in The College Republicans argued that any move short ofa bilateral freeze simply would not be reasonable. 
W
alking home at 5 a.m., it's difficult to tlnd good 
could not seem to breach. I was more than a little tipsy, And reason is a quality one must hope to find in a race from lack ofsleep rather than revelry, yet I persistently 
that is so bold as to call itself"homosapiens." ln the 
attempted to penetrate what I felt was an unwillingness sixteenth century, Thomas More condemned himselfto to engage in a meaningful dialogue. 
sainthood with a somewhat different stance: 
"C'mon, you guys," I said, as a majority of my "Finally, it isn't a matter of reason -finat~v. it's a 
audience ducked beneath the gentle lapping of the 
matter ofLove." 

water. "Get involved in caring! Talk to me! I don't care The duck stared at me for just a short while, and then
about what. Life. FLOC (a poor attempt at a pun). The as his fellows drifted back, still miffed by my super­
nuclear debate ..." fluous reference to the annihilation ofour world but
Early in Indiana, it was as though a shotgun report willing to let bygones be bygones, he also apparentlyhad broken the pre-dawn still. Every one of them was forgave me, and launched into a lengthy series of
gone. Some subjects ought not be mentioned in any muffled quacks which I understood to be a commentary
polite company. Even when they dress in down. Ah, on the Dallas Cowboys.
well. 
As I turned to go home. discouraged because God's !left him standing there, declaiming in loud voice the creatures seemed so indignant at the mention of Man's drawbacks of the shotgun offense; I could no longer problems, a low quack stopped me in my tracks. focus on the more mundane aspects of life. A duck's 
accusing star ad left me stunned, and it irked me that 
How do you know u•hen a duck is old? The years 
he so easily returned to the world of those not con­
rang forth in a voice that had called God knows how ot~ templating sui-genocide. I suppose that, besides a slight ten across the lake that had become home. 
annoyance with Man's tendency to nullify all-that is Feeling drawn by the authority of the bird's voice, I good in the world he shares with so many others, the turned back and knew that now. I was the audience. 
bird's real concerns with mankind were not so far I have stared into the eyes ofmany a beautiful person, reaching. seen the eddies and currents oflife swirl in the depths; it 
Thev sav that animals have no souls. Knowing, deepwas hard to accept the swelling of Being that seemed inside: it i~n't true, for the ~ake ofone blameless duck, Ijust below the surface ofa duck's eyes. 
nod and agree. Staring. When the sky lights up for the last time, he shall have Speaking, wordless. Why. What has brought you to nothing to lose. 
Like nothing you've ever seen 
0 
ne ofthe best motion pictures Instead, he uses the exotic locale to pastiche. Where Costa-Garvas ofthe year may very well be disorient his viewers, making them would have unfolded a political written offas an unsuccessful ad­totally unsure ofwhere this thriller, Weir internalizes the havoc venture t11m. The big boys at cinematic world is leading. Hamil­in the streets and paints a picture of MGM/United Artists have decided ton's reliance on Billy in this un­the human condition. The love story that Aussie director Peter Weir familiar place allows the dwarf total in the t1lm is not so much about love (whose Gallipoli became the most control over everything Hamilton successful Australian mm in history) does. In fact, Billy has control of just as it is about living dangerously. is suddenly a marketable entity. In about everything in the movie. Violence becomes a lesser factor turn, they have decided to market Viewers will certainly become above which these characters can his latest film, The Year ofLiving aware of his role as a Christ tlgure live out their lives as they wish. Yet Dangerous~y as though it were offering salvation to those who are the danger offalling from grace per­some sort ofRaiders ofthe Lost Ark, willing to accept him. The Christian sists, and Indonesia in the mid imagery is practically non-stop, yet Sixties is just about the best earthlyDennis Chalifour 
it does not intrude on the narrative. realization of hell which I can im­agine. The human condition may While I'm on the subject of Billy, have never been more truly realized. let me say that he may be one of the 
Mel Gibson is the perfectmovie review most interesting mm characters of everyman lead who brings enough
all time. He is played with such an in­
Part Two. Somehow, they got Gene soul to his part that the audience can
tense spirit that the viewer quickly
Shalit to say the movie "sizzles," and learn to like him and root for him
recognizes that he is truly the soul of
plastered that word all over the ads even when he is down. I had faith in 
the movie; through whom the other
along with Mel Gibson posed like Guy Hamilton. Sigourney Weaver
characters act out their assigned
some Saturday morning serial hero brings much life to a role that is real­
roles. Peter Weir has a tendency to
thinking he was Clark Gable. Let me ly no more than a trophy to be
assign large and interesting roles to
attempt to set the story straight. fought over and claimed. She imbues
otherwise ugly characters. The 
her role with a kind of]ackie Ken­
The Year ofLiving Dangerous~y aborigine in The Last Wave quickly 
nedy sexuality that seems rather ap­takes us to Indonesia in the middle comes to mind. But the most propriate in 1965. In any case, she1960s. just as the Sukarno regime is amazing thing about Billy Kwan b convinces the audience that she is a losing much ofits strength. Guy the fact that he is played by a woman worthy prize.
Hamilton (Mel Gibson) is an -Linda Hunt-not an Oriental, not Australian journalist dumped in the a dwarf. and most importantly, not a I. l(>r one, am looking forward to 
middle of it all. ln time. however. male. What Weir has done is given seeing this movie again through Hamilton is befriended by a half this friend-to-all character an es­more prepared eyes. It may require a Oriental and half European dwarf sence that is very different fr(Hn any bit more work to take in than most 
named Bilh· Kwan. Billv is a_limminy man. We've seen quite a few change commercial tllms. but. in the end. Cricket kind ofcharacter who some­ofgender roles lately, but thb one the eft(>rt will be well ~pent Then: how has access to just about every­takes grand prize. exist few action movio:s that otfer thing in Indonesia. including a 
Christian salvation from a Tolstoyian JO\·dy assistant to the British Embas­
This is just one example of the point of\ iew as translated hy an waY in which Wt:ir does things in Australian. Cio see The }"ear of
sy portra~ ed hv ~igourney \\·eaver. this mo\·ie which han: nen:r bdore l.il"ing /Jangemusl)'. hut
But director l'ncr \\.eir is not 
THE DISTANCE goes fnr 
T
he Distance is the latest release by long-time rocker Bob Seger and the Silver Bullet Band. Seger, whose last studio release was 1980's hugely successful and equally banal Against The Wind, has said publicly that the record company pressured him for a hit album at any cost. 
Now the No. 1 selling act at Capitol, Seger seems to be flexing his muscles. Nine Tonight showed the tlashes of brilliance that marked Live Bullet, and The Distance is one of his strongest albums. 
The story of the Detroit-raised Seger is now legendary. After playing the Midwest club circuit for over a decade, with only mild success outside the Motor City, Seger recorded Lil'e Bullet. The al­bum sold very well. becoming that rock rarity, a critical and com­mercial success. Seger'~ screaming, pleading, last-chance vocals dominate the album with strong tunes from tlrst cut to last. 
This led the way t(>r Nigbt Mol'es, the multi-platinum album that made Seger a household name. The look-alike follow up, Strangerin Toun, was sent to platinum glory. 
Ed Konrady 
record review 

After these came the redoubtable Against The Wind, which ac­hieved platinum success but little acclaim by either critics or fans. Amid rumors that Seger was dying of throat cancer, the Silver Bullet Band hit the road with Seger to record/Vine Tonight, a worthy suc­cessor to Live Bullet. 
As opposed to the fluff ofAgainst The Wind, The Distance is a thoughtful album. Seger uses the highway imagery common to many rockers, in a different way. For Seger, the highway is a two-way road. You should leave, but home is a place to which to return. 
This album's songs are very concentric -the songs surround Seger's approach to home and what this idea means to him, without ever encompassing the subject. ....-/­
The album starts with a great rocker, "Even Now." Seger's vocals" are strong on this opener but £-Street keyboard man Roy Bittan steals the song. Bittan's piano weaves in and out of the tune, strengthening the song and making it whole. Excellent when played loud. 
With a nod to his Detroit roots, "Makin' Thunderbirds" tells the story of'55 and the spirit ofthe Thunderbird. Even if you drive a Pinto, you will appreciate Waddy Watchel's guitar and the shuffle piano by Craig Frost. 
"Boomtown Blues" is the reaction ofthose who know they have to go home. The chunky sound features Chris Campbell on bass and Russ Kunkel on drums, but the lyrics excel. ("Look what you win/Look what you lose/Stuck here in Heaven/With these boom­town blues"). 
Next on side one is "Shame on the Moon." Shame on Seger for ben­ding to label pressure and putting this song on the album. When I heard it on the radio, I couldn't believe he wrote this drivel. He didn't, Rodney Crowell did. He should be ashamed. 
The last cut on the side is "Love's The Last To Know," the tlrst bal­lad. Bill Payne plays some nice piano, and DaveyJohnstone meshes into the song with his guitar. The song tells the story about love for a person and love for much more. 
Side two opens with "Roll Me Away," a classic Seger song that begins with Bittan's piano tapping softly, building to a rocking tune. Kunkel exhibits more of his mastery on the drums. 
"House Behind A House" is a chunky hard rock song with Watchel and Danny Kortchmar on guitar pounding the song ahead. Seger and Shaun Murphy sing excellently, with Silver Bullet member Alto Reed on sax. 
The oldest song on the album (written in I 979) is a ballad entitled "Comin' Home," with Seger"~ acoustic guitar opening the song. The lvric~ form a cornerstone for the album, (."You'll just tell them what they want to hear/How you took the place by storm/You won't tell how you lost it all/You'll just say you're comin' home"). 
The album close~ with "Little Victories," with Watchel on guitar in a great opening riff and later in the song. a fantastic solo. The song tdb about accepting life without fighting it. Kunkel's solid drums and great 'ocals highlight it. 
On T/w /Jista nee. Seger comes back with one of his best elforts, 
been dont·. The stYle is closely akin he prepared. It'' like nothing you've rocker~\\ ith meaning The man bd(Jre 19HO'~ fia~co waited three or potent tal action in this s!luation. to Costa-(ianas without becoming a t'\Tr seen in vour life. \Tar'. hut Bob and the Bam! ha\T come back to u~. WS?f!.t _£,§£ &WJK4 H#l-J\1&-WAJJ.ALSM.t& .AllLUZ:XO:Uti&!Qv.}A€?L,·NJ;Gi&P£11{~:~-t~~d"1J 
o\·erlY concerned with the politics 

The Observer Wednesday, February 23, 1983-page 8 
---·---­




~jb()~tS:J3::~:=i=~~~~S======~*====================w=e=d=ne=sd=a=y=,F=eb=r=u=ary==23=,=1=98=3===p=ag==e9 
H\ Tbe ()IJsen•er anu Tbe Associated Press 
The Army ROTC basketball tc:am travelt:d to 
Purdue l'niversit\· last weekend to participate in an I0-team all­ROTC tournament. The Notre Dame AROTC contingent \von the competition, defeating :'1/otre Dame Navy ROTC in the tina\, SH-5R Army co-captain Pat Sheehy was the tournament's MVP. Teams from Michigan State, Indiana, Purdue and Southern Illinois, among other schools, participated in the tourney. -The Ohsen•er 
Today is the deadline tor registration for twn in­terhall tournaments. The open racquetball tournament, open to anvone on campus -students, faculty, and staff -will be a single eli~ination tournament, best ofthree games, one round per week. A wrestling tournament also will be held -the weight classes are 12 3. 1 30, 137, 1-!5, 1 ';2, 160, 167, 1"77. and unlimited. Halls maysign up as teams. Call 239-6100 or stop by C-2 of the ACC to regtster for either of these tournaments before 5 p.m. -The Ohsert,er 
Prospective cheerleaders take note. There will be an organizational meeting for those interested in trying out for the 1983-84 squad on Tuesday, March 1, at 7:00p.m. at Rathskellar. -The Observer 
The ND-SM C Sailing Club will hold its tlrst meeting of the spring semester tonight at 6:30 in 204 O'Shaughnessy. New members are welcomed. -The Observer 
The Ultimate Frisbee Club will be practicing 
behind Jake Kline field, weather permitting. The practices will run from 3:30 to 5:30 Monday through Friday. New members are welcome. -The Observer 
Ski Team members who have not picked up their jackets, sweatshirts or ski bags should contact Phil Panny at 277­3799 as soon as possible. -The Observer 
Did Herschel sign? 
NCAA to probeWalker-USFL tie 
!\1ISSION, Kans. (AP) The NCAA contlrmed yesterday it is in­vestigating Heisman Trophy winner Herschel Walker's contacts with the New Jersey Generals of the United States football League. 
David Berst, NCAA enforcement chief, told The Associated Press his oftke has begun a probe of reports that the three-time all-American from the University of Georgia signed a professional contract with the Generals, then backed out after changing his mind. 
Walker and Georgia oftkials have denied the reports. 
Walker announced friday that he intended to play his senior year at Georgia. However, he would be in­eligible to do that if the NCAA finds that he did, indeed, sign a pro con­tract. 
"I've tried to avoid commenting directly on what we're doing," smashed NCAA precedent by publicly acknowledging the probe. 
"The fact is, (Georgia Coach) Vince Dooley has been in constant contact with us on this matter and has invited us to satisfy ourselves that we have the complete facts, in order to make a judgment. We do in­tend to talk to the various principals involved, collect information and make a judgment," he said. 
Berst declined to say how long the probe might take. "We'll try to ac­complish that as quickly as possible. 
To me, that means in about a week. To everyone else. that probably means by i p.m. tonight." 
Berst said he decided to acknowl­edge the investigation because of widespread interest and the fact that it is not actuaily an infractions mat­ter but an eligibility issue. 
Berst said Monday he tended to believe that Walker did not sign the contract. 
\X'alker met with Generals' owner ). Walter Duncan on the Georgia campus last Thursday. According to the B toston Globe, Walker signed a contract, then changed his mind. That would make him ineligible for any more college football, but Walker has denied that report, saying no offer was made. 

Tonight's Bengal card 
Pamngs for rhe semifinals of rhe 7983 Bengal Bours. scheduled ro begin ar rhe Sourh Dome of rhe ACC tonight ar 7:30 
SUPER-HEAVYWEIGHT Mark LeBlanc vs. Andy Panelli J1m Se1th vs Larry Andre1n1 
HEAVYWEIGHT M1ke Cray vs J1m K1nney John lglar vs Arthur Murphy 
17D-LB Dave Packo vs M1ke McGu1re Doug Maohater vs. John Roce 
165-LB Angelo Pen no vs. Mtke Sull1van Pat Cusack vs. Boll Butler 
155-LB Dave Roberts vs. Joe Mezzapesa Moke A Sullivan vs Greg Lezynsk1 
15D-LB Steve Sterawskl vs Mtke Mazza Dave Odland vs Tom Lezynsk1 
145-LB Paul Oerba vs Hugh Gnfflth Jeff Masc10p1nto vs Joe Beatty 
140-LB Pat Serge vs John Conaghan Edmond Kelly vs Pat Weber 
135-LB M1ke Latz vs M1ke Dandurand Tony Bonacc1 vs Dan Mclaunn 
College hoops 

-
MIDWEST Notre Dame 61. Hofstra 50 Bradley 56. Drake 52. overt1me 
EAST lona 85, Falflield 71 Pnnceton 60. Pennsylvania 49 Rutgers 78, Ouquense 73 Seton Hall 74. Pittsburgh 68 
SOUTH Flonda State 79, New Mex1co 77 LoUISVIlle 71. Wnght State 55 Tennessee 82, Auburn 74 
WEST San D1ego State 91. Cal State-Long Beach 76 

The Observer w111 accept classtfteds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m to 4.30 p.m. However. classtfieds to appear 1n the next tssue must be recetved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to 1nsertton. All classtfteds must be prepatd. 
etther m person or through the mail 




Classifieds 
MAKE 11 OUR BUSINESS the MOB 

LOST MENS N.O. RING, 84 BLUE HELP NEEO RIOE TO NYC/LONG IS­76 P1nto 4speed, Ex.Cond . Runs WANT TO BE OF SERVICE TO STONE. FULL NAME ON INSIDE LOST LAND FOR SPRING BREAK LEAVE GREAT. FM-cassette. 30mpg, $1500Call OTHERS? Come to the Center lor Soc1al 
MAKE 11 OUR BUSINESS the MOB 
NOTICES 

ON TOWER QUAO. CALL JOHN 8212 MAR 10. MARK 316 Paul1732 Concerns on THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 
24. 6 PM to hear Edwma Gately, founder MAKE it OUR BUSINESS the MOB
LOST:opal nng w/ th.m gold band bit Surfs up 1n So. California. Onvmg to ol the VOLUNTARY MISSIONARY TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 townhouses and brownson on sat. 19th. Cal1lorn1a lor spnng break? I could use a MOVEMENT, lay movement for 
VOTE MOB 

Great sentimental value. PLEASE CALL lift. G1ve M1ke a call at x1688. Thanks. miSSIOnary work 1n the Church 
TICKETS a 
TYPING CINDY 7711 11 you lound it FENWICK produces SOCIAL RETARDS 

Jack1e Boggs HELP! NEEO RIDE TO WEST PALM 684-8793 Need DePaul tickets w111 pay $$$ call FOR BREAK' CALL JAY at 1404 
Need nde to Vlfglnia lor spnng break. Will 
Lost: share usual Please call Angoe at 1284. 

Mark8919 Notre Dame N1ght at the Mus1c Box Th1s CAREERS IN PUBLISHING The Director 
Gym's Jim shorts... er... uh... Jim's PLEASE! 
Fnday! With the ROOMS and Psychool the Radcliffe Publishing Course. a SIX 
Gym shorts. Gray shorts w/ black and Riders needed to N Y C lor break. Call NEEO 3 DAYTON TICKETS--JULIE 3725 THEO MAJORS. TOMORROW-­Capones!! Wear your Blue and Gold!!! 
white strtpes down the s1de. Lost between Karl x3113 THURSDAY--COME TO THE SOCIALweek tntens1ve graduate program 1n book Stepan and Stanford. (Honest.) Please HOUR WITH FR BURRELL, C.S.C. ASand magaz1ne publiShing at Harvard Uni­call Gym... er ... uh... JIM at 8641. Thanl< RIDE NEEOEO TO ALBANY NEW YORK GUEST--5:00 PM, 331versity, Will be on campus Fnday. 
February 25. A general meetmg will be you. FOR SPRING BREAK---CAN LEAVE 

Need R1de To Connecticut For Spnng
0 SHAUGHNESSYANYTIME WILL SHARE USUAL. CALLheld at 1:30 p.m. to discuss career oppor­Break. Will Share Usual Please Call Dan 
tunities tn publishtng For further mforma· FOLJND (:~;,~ ~~~~~i11i~ ~~lculator, fx-58, CHRIS AT 3510 OR 8573 ANYTIME---PERSONALS Sad1s1C Coach--Who dressed you th1s 
at x6824. 

!ton on the gr.:>"P meet1ng check w1th the 1n engmeenng aud1tonum. Call Kevm at 
Placement Off1ce. For 1nd1VIdual appoint­3201, late night. H1 Jayne. h1 Matt, th1s 1s Need RIOE to CLEVELAND th1s 
morn1ng? 
ments call239-5200 fre~! 
weekend. Call Jack 1588 JUGGLER Shanff don't like 11. It JUSt doesn t cut 1t. 

LOST: N.O B1lllold With my 1.0 cards. The Juggler IS now accepting liclion. TYPING WANTED 277-8534 6-10 PM M­
NEW JERSEY RIOE NEEDED TO

license and detex'" it. On Fnday between poetry. essays photography. graphiCS,
F, ALL OAY WKNOS NORTH/CENTRAL NJ FOR SPRING II this IS the gravy. where s the mashed 
..

N1ewland and the Ma1n Clfcle II found, etc for the Spnng 1983 1ssue Submis­
potatoes? (We already found the turkey!) please call Jan1ce at 1336. Sions should be turn.ed 1n at the Engl1shBREAK. PLEASE CALL KATHY 7906 
RESUMES -Professionally prepared 
Off1ce ,309 O'Shag (Juggler mailbox). 
We l1ke to sw1m au natural
232-6362 Need two ndes to Long Island area lor
LOST. Burgundy tnlold wallet on Satur­Spnng Break Can leave anytime Callday the 19th dunng JuniOr Parents 
Go NO--th1s one s for poor, SICk little B1llyWeekend. Please return as contents are RecrUiting Now. Complete Oetatls-$2.00 4273 
Grand Canyon Summer Jobs Employers Ann at SMC 4287 or Maureen at SMC , 
''!Xpens1ve to re-place·-especially Conn NEO IV NEO IV NEO IV NEO IV MAKE 11 OUR BUSINESS the MOB Wnte: Canyon, Box 30444 Tucson, AZ dnvers l1cences. Please call 3498-you
85751 Need a nde for 2 to the Ch1cago Suburb of 
got my name already. HUMPY THE CAT IS REALLY PO'DI BURKE--Get an 1nterest1ng event!!
Glenv1ew tor Feb 25-27 W1ll share ex­TYPING IN MY HOME (RESUMES. LET-penses. Call Kathleen 4365 (SMC). 
Bosron HUMPY THE CAT says:FOUND. AN ADORABLE POODLE-MIX Need nde to Boston on Fn or Sat. March "Here's mud in your eye (or at leasr. on YVONNE-YVETIE--Where s your clip? 
TERS, REPORTS, TERM 
DOG. SHE APPEARED IN TUESDAY'S 25 or 26 (That's the weekend after spFing 
yourrug)"
PAPERS.ETC.) NEAT. ACCURATE TO CHICAGO FROM SOUTH BEND ­
OBSERVER IF YOU LOST HER OR break ) Willing to share cost et al Call Jeb LANE 2 L1fe 1n the fast lane!! GO SPRIN­
WORK, REASONABLE RATES. 233-ONE WAY, $15. ROUND TRIP, $28.
CAN GIVE HER A PERMANENT HOME. at 8641 Thanks. TERS' 7009. 
PHONE 234-6778. 

SHES CURRENTLY RESIDING IN WALSH CALL x8077. Ride needed. THE JAZZ SINGER Fn., Feb 25 SMC
THEO MAJORS TOMORROW-­ATTN ALL NEW ENGLANDERS'!! Con­HELP R1de needed to U of ILLINOIS Feb THURSOAY,-COME TO THE SOCIAL
Are you commg back from or through At­Carroll Hall7. 9. 11 $1 necticut Club 1S aga1n otfenng an exc1t1ng Found. Basketball at Stepan Fnday, 25 Call MARY 8148 HOUR WITH FR BURRELL, C.S.C AS
lanta after spnng break? 
·and tun·f1lled bus nde back for spnng 
2/18 Call Jerry 3321 to cla1m Are you com1ng back early say. on GUEST--S 00 PM. 331 To all SMC and NO glfls
break. Cost IS $90 and stops are 1n Falf­WANTED! ST. PAT OAY IN SOUTHIE 0 SHAUGHNESSY 
.. ·. Fnday, March 18? (You, too. Ke1th)
NEEO RIOE TO BOSTON FOR BREAKlield and Hartford Bnng money to s1gn 

LOST: BLUE AND GOLD (original I need a nde, then. Got to take GMAT's. Oon·t m1ss Ke1th 1n his birthday su1t He 
ups on Mon . Feb 28, llfst floor La PAULA 1266 Thank-you lor the !lowers 
colors, eh?) NO WRESTLING JACKET. Call Jeb at 8641. Thanks. w1\\ be makmg h1s debut soon Oon"t Fortune, 6-7pm FIRST COME. FIRST My name "BROWN" is on the front. II sweat 1t. Ketth -you rea real doll! 
Need nders to PURDUE th1S weekend!

SERVE. found, please return to Matt Brown, Sa1nt Marys student~ YOU can buy Ob­Marathon 331 
Call6781 Marathon 331

x8607. REWARDt!l serv6r class1f1eds on the Sa1nt Mary"s Marathon 331
campus Come to the SMC Observer TO THE CHAMP Need RIOE to CHICAGO Fnday Please office 1n the otftce of Regma South. Mon· BEST OF LUCK' call Tom at 3841 
day through Fnday. 12·30 to 3 p m LOVE,
LOST/FOUND I 'I._____FO_R_R_EN_T__ 
freshman sw1mmers we are freshman FROGNeeded a nde to Ch1cago lor DePaul 
sw1mmers and we are too tun' GO JOAN. game on Fnday Will share usual. Call OON McLAURIN·" GOOO LUCK JULIE. ANO VENETTO
LOST NO CLASS RING( 83). NAME House:4 bedroom, near NO. $290 permo Jack1e 4 t 64 ( SMC) TONIGHTII YOUR CHEERING SEC­INSIDE. BLUE STOME. LOST POSSIB­Fall or summer No utilitieS Phone (319) TION IS BEHIND YOU ALL THE WAY!' RIDE NEEDED TO DALLAS FOR LY AT SMC(MOREAU-0 LAUGHLIN 322-8735 Patty BESIDES. RICARDO NEEDS A GOOO GO FOR THE GRAVY AT MIDWEST!! SPRING BREAK !'CALL DREW 1 I 66 
Need nde to Ft Lauderdale lor spnngHALL). LAST SEEN OVER WEEKEND REASON TO CELEBRATEII THE
break Please call 501 I SMC HEY WOMEN S SWIMMING!! 

OF 1/28·1/30. BIG REWARD $$$ OF­Sem1-Furn 2BdRm Apt near NO Ut1lit1es FINALS ARE NEXT ATTN: ALL NEW ENGLANDERS!!! Con­
ROCK THE CASBAH FERED. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFO Pd Less Gas P T h 272-0261 necticut Club is aga1n offenng an exc1t1ngWE SWAM LONG COURSE 

PLEASE CALL 283-3346 GREAT BOOKS--GREAT MINOS-­and fun-filled bus nde back lor spnngDO IT FOR THE S.T S 
4 bdrm turn1shed house. near campus MEET FACUL TV AND STUDENTS OF break. Cost IS $90 and stops are 1n Falf­
FOR SALE 
NOTHING CUTS IT

To the person who removed my blue Or~ On Notre Dame Ave. Good condrt1on 9 THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES lield and Hartford Bnng money to s1gn gan1c Chem1stry notebook from the South mo lease $335 per mo Call 684-0933 MONDAY FEB 28, 6 30 P M . GRACE ups on Mon., Feb 28, llfSt lloor La Forune, Dining Hall on Fnday. Feb 11. between 1 (local call). PIT 6-7pm FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE. 
lor sale I 977 BMW 320i.LUXUS 

PACKAGE.FLORIOA CAR.GREAT LANE t GO GENERICS LANE 2 SHAPE.$6,800 Call283·1 166 THERE S NO SPEED LIMIT IN THE & 1 30pm, I would apprec1ate 1ts lm­
med.ale return I'll be glad to let you bor­BRUNO'S FAST LANE'! 
row 1t some time when I don·t need 111 My 6RIGNAL FAMILY 
name and number IS on 1t so call me! PIZZA
FOR SALE Marantz model 1030 30W COGS, PUGS, AND DEMAR-THIS IS
WANTED 
sl<ho amp. Marantz 110 luner Sony PS need RIOE to MILWAUKEE, ln., 2/25 call YOUR PERSONALI!! to those men ol the 
A SECOND LOCATION -NORTH ON 31. Found. Glfl s watch outs1de North D1n1ng ONE MILE FROM N.O FREE DELIVERY 
-LX2 automatic. d1rect-dnve turntable w/ Sheila 2911 Manor (IS that like lad1es ofthe Evemng 
need RIDERS to COLOMBUS.OHIO Stanton cartndge Advent 9 two-way or Just the women of Lyons?) that are our
Hall on the 16th Call 2905 TO CAMPUS MON-THURS AT 700 
from 2/24 to 2/27 call AN ORE x7449 spkrs PHONE 8929 WE LOVE YOU SENIORS!! bestest buddies 1n the world. who else
PM ANO 10 00 PM -ORDER BEFORE --thelun freshmen would lend thelf speakers lor a happy
LOST: PAIR OF SILVER FRAMED 6 30 FOR THE 7 00 DELIVERY ANO 
IIJEEO RIDE TO CHGO AREA THIS FRI STEREO EQUIPMENT Hassle free ho-!1 P S. USA all the way' hour, then play md1an g1ver m the dark
GLASSES IN PLASTIC BROWN CASE. BEFORE 9·30 FOR THE I 0:00 
<'OR DEPAUL GAME 1684or 1266/7 delivered qutckly rtght to your door and steal them back before our next one? 
THE CASE WAS FALLING APART AND DELIVERY CALL NOW 277-4519 
Protesstonal consultal1o:1 3nd tnstaUahon 1 there·s no better backruboers. adv1ce·IS HELD TOGETHER BY A PIECE OF 
~EEO RIDE TO SARASOTA AREA FOR Ava1lable at spec1al d1scount pnces for SadiSIC Coach--Who dressed you this g1vers, finance tutors. and beer dnnkers
SILVER DUCT TAPE. IF FOUND HELP! HELP I HELPII need a nde to Mol­
SPRING BREAK' WIL~ SHARE USUAL >tudents at NO/SMC SO.VE $$$-call J B mornmg? that THE COGS, THE PUGS. AND THE
PLEASE CALL PHIL AT 8295. waukee th1S weekend Jf you re go1ng my 
DESPERAELY NEEDED!!!II!!J!!IIII!! CALL MARY 2179 at 283·8286 way, please g1ve Julie a call at 3882 DEMAR' p s. IS that good enough? 
Shanff don t like 1t. It lUSt doesn't cut 11. 
.. 



The Observer Wednesday, February 23, 1983-page 10 
• • • Ease 

well ~ince there were too many
continuedjro111 page 12 Ranktn 30 4-11 0-1 5 2 8 
things on my mind. but now I McPanland 22 1-2 1-1 1 2 3 believe in my~elf and feel that I can Mtlls 38 2-7 0-0 2 0 4
fast break. and dishing out two as­
Wamgard 11 1-2 1-1 0

go up against anybody and play 3
sists after penetrating the lane. 
Harvey 26 0-0 2-4 1-4 2
wdl."
The second half ended in a 29-29 Schreyer 23 5-6 3-4 0 3 13 Sluby was also singled out by
tie in which Notrt· Dame, never Cluess 15 0-0 2-4 1 3 2 Phelps for his play as he scored a Mtnor 4 0-2 0-0 0 1 0
managed to move ahead by more 
200 20-44 1 0-17 15 19

season-high 1-t poims and a career 50
then I 5 points, hut never let llo!Stra 
FG Pet 455 FT Pc1 588 Team
._,.. 
high seven rebounds.
get within nine points. rebounds-2 Turnovers-12 Asststs-9 (Mtlls Dolan, Paxson, Sluby and Varner 2. Watngard 2) Techntcals-None 
"We had our chances to cut it combined for 5 ~of the 61 points.
down to seven and make a game ofit, Notre Dame (61) "We'rt· struggling from the bench M FG-A FT-A R F p
hut we:: couldn't," said Berg. "From having watched them right now," admitted Phelps, "but 
Varner 35 5-9 1-2 7 1 11 Dolan 37 6-7 4-5 8 4 16
we're happy to have 16 wins." 
(Notre Dame) earlier in the year, I 
Kempton 31 1-2 0-0 4 4 2 
IRISH ITEMS -Hofstra was the
can say that they arc a greatly im­Paxson 39 8-12 0-1 1 2 16 proved team. They have comt· along seventh Irish victim this year to Sluby 36 3-6 8-8 7 2 14 really well. They had some trouhles score SO or less poinrs ... The Irish Pnce 6 0-2 0-0 1 0 0 
Barlow 11 0-0 2-2 1 2 2
early in the year because they were dominared the hoards with a ;; 1-1 7 
Andree 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 young, hut their execution and Duff 2 0-0 0-0 0 0 ()
rebounding advantage over timing is very good now." Hofstra ...John Paxson passed Rich Buchanan 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Love 1 0-1 0-0 0 0 0
Branning with yesterday's 16-point
A main reason for the improve­
200 23-39 15-18 29 15 61 
ment is the recent play by the Notre output to move into I2th place on 
FG Pet 590 FT Pet 833 Team Dame starting forward tandem of the:: all-time:: Notre Dame scoring list. rebounds -2 Turnovers -18 Asststs -13 Jim Dolan and Bill Varner. 
(Paxson 5. Varner 4) Techmcals-None Hofstra (50) Halfttme-Notre Dame 32. Hofstra 21 Offt-
Dolan put on one of his best per­
M FG-A FT -A R F P ctals -Gary Muncy, Malcolm Hemphtll. Ted 
formances of the year as he sank 6-Taylor 31 7-14 1-2 5 3 15 Htllary(AIIBtgTen) A-10.305 

-
I I 
l 
.. 
t 
Sophomore center Carrie Bates' grand weekend keyed a success­ful road swing for the Notre Dame women's basketball team. Her 28points and 16 rebounds led the Irish to crucial wirts over Brad­ley and Illinois State. Mike Sullivan profiles the 6-1 power player beginning on the back page. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
TheAP's Top 20 
Women's
Men's 

The Top Twenty men's college basketball teams tn 
The Top Twenty women·s college basketball 

The Associated Press poll, wtth ftrst-place votes tn 
teams tn The Associated Press poll. With ftrst-place 

parentheses, th1s season's records and total po1nts. 
votes 1n parentheses, lh1s season·s records and total 

Points based on 20-19-18-1 7 etc. Notre Dame op-
points Points based on 20-19-18-1 7 etc Notre Dame 

ENGINEERING MAJORS HAVE 
ENOUGH STRESS WITHOUT HAVING 
TO WORRYABOUT TUmON. 
Ifone of the angles you've been studying lately is a way to pay your tuition costs, Army ROTC would like to offer some sound advice. 
Apply for an Army ROTC scholarship. Recently, we set aside hundreds ofscholarships solely for engineering majors like yourself. Each one covers full tuition, books and other supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it's in effect. So if the stress of worrying about tuition 
is bending you out of shape, get some finan­cial support. Apply for an Army ROTC 
scholarship today. 
For more informa­tion, contact your Pro­fessor of Military Science. 
ARMY ROTC. 
BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
CAPTAIN 
GREGORY A. CANNATA 
PHONE: 239-6264/65 
-~ 
1,000 950 898 793 784 693 
689 
646 605 
563 
462 388 37t 331 324 309 202 
196 
66 37 37 

of-7 tleld goals and 4-of-5 free throws, tying him for game-high scoring honors with Paxson. In addi­tion he pulled down a game-high eight rebounds and did an "excellent job of making things hap­pen," according to Phelps. 
With Tim Kempton in the throes of one of his worst nights (scoring only two points, sitting out half the game with foul and turnover problems while also being hacked around by Hofstra defenders), the perfromance by Dolan was especial­ly welcome::. 
"I've been more consistent Iatc::Iy and that's what I'm really striving for," explained Dolan. ''I'm getting open more when people:: are keying on Kempton and its just a matter of picking up the slack." 
Varner, meanwhile, has continued his tine play oflatc:: with his outstand­ing all-around I !-point (inc! uing his own behind-the-hack dribble move 
on  a  full-court  fast  break),  seven  
rebounds  and  four  assist  pert(>r­ 
mance.  

"I feel more contldcnt now more than ever," said Varner. "Earlier in the year I wasnt concentrating very 
continued/rom page 12 
to the tournament. 
"There's no reason if we:: win the last four games that we shouldn't get a bid. If we didn't, it would be really cheap. Although we:: haven't had as good a year (seven losses) as we would have wished, we haven't lost 
continued/rom page 12 
sportsmanlike conduct, in addition to any other penalty which might be imposr:d upon Coach Knight or In­diana University for such second of­fense::, Coach Knight will he suspended for one contest." 
Under another regulation in the 
The Irish Gardens 
your Screw your Roommate Headquarters Stay on campus and save $ $ $ by letting us



i~~~~~~,; 
-IJ 
take care of your flower needs 
f' ­
0 

~~ Dial M-U-M-8 (6867) to place an order 
Located off the llazz in the basement of LaFortune 

d Hours: 12:30-5:30 

first prize  $150  4th place $75  
2nd place  $125  5th place $50  
3rd place  $100  

Musical acts!! sign up now and win$$$! pick up applications and rules from the Student Union office starting Feb. 10 
Applications due Friday, Feb 26 at 8 pm! QUESTIONS--Phone John at 3319!!! 
• • • Carrie 
to a Midwest team." 
Meanwhile, Carrie Bates will con­rinue to make her important con­tributions from the bench. 
"Carrie's getting her minutes and growing in confidence," says DiS­tanislao. "And, if we gc::t into the tournament, she'll he a major factor in our success." 
• • • Knight 

Big Ten Code, Indiana University and Knight have five days to appeal if they bdieve the penalty inap­propriate or excessive. 
However. Duke said that Athleric Director Floyd has advisc~d the com­missioner that the university and Coach Knight have waived their rights to appeal the penalty. 
ponents are italicized  
1 UNLV(41)  24-0  
2. Houston (5)  22-2  
3 Vtrgtnta (7)  21-3  
4. Indiana {4)  20-3  
5 LouiSVIlle  22-3  
6. Arkansas  22-1  
7 Villanova  19-4  
8 UCLA  19-3  
9 St. Johns  22-3  
10 Kentucky  18-5  
11 North Carolina  21-6  
12. WiChita State  21-3  
13 Syracuse  18-5  
14 MemphiS State  19-4  
15 OhiO State  17-6  
M1ssourr  20-6  
17. Iowa  16-7  
18 Georgetown  17-7  
19 Boston College  19-5  
20 Tennessee  16-1  


1110 1 040 976 
939 
842 827 
777 743 
707 
637 
586 452 379 329 308 308 179 155 t46 69 
opponents are italicized 
1 Lowsiana Tech (50) 2 usc 3 Texas 4 Old Domm1on 5 Tennessee 6 Cheyney State 
7. Maryland 8 Kentucky 9 Cal State-Long Beach 
10 Arizona State 11 Penn State 12 Georgia 
13. Kansas State 14 Auburn 15 MISSISSIPPI 
16. North Carolina State t7 MISSOUri 18 Rutgers 19 Lou1s1ana State 
20. North Carolina Oral Roberts 
25-1 
21-2 22-2 18-5 21-5 22-2 
21-3 
21-3 17-6 
20-5 
20-6 19-6 18-5 19-5 21-4 18-6 17-5 
16-7 
19-5 18-6 20-0 

,J 
IheJJbre~er======================================= 

~~4()l~~=========================W==ed=n=e=s=d=ay='=F=e=b=ru=a=ry==2=3=,1=9=8=3===p=a=g=e=l=l
Bloom County 
Hf.U.O...I SAW 

AC..fiJ,
YOUR Al7 IN 1H£ OH...R6AU.y.l 
Wf.U-, I'M 5<XJN!I5 
I ENJOY YOU 

:£N<JmV£•. ~RUMPT10\b I
''P€R50NAl.'J..." wr3.1-1fL(.. 
ThNNIS... ARf.N'T1AU.? 

51NC£RE. ... AR£ YOO TI\U. 7
YOO 50UNP€11 ME. AOOVT 
JOG01N&... HOW iAl.l.

ANI7 I ~NJOY I(./}./£ REAU-Y
NIC£ ~I YOUR5a.f. 
SAI(..IN&.. ARE. YOU?

5WIMMIN0. TPU. GUYS/

CAU£-P. 
FOOTBAU.... 
f 



Simon 


Aspirin Man 
\ 


ACROSS 1 Milk:comb. 
6 Peak

The Daily Crossword form 
1 0 Govt. agcy. 14 Mrs. Irving Berlin 15 Supercili­
12 13 
ary ridge =--+---11-+---1 16 Emaciated 17 Set in rows --+---11-+---1 18 Choosy 20 Kind of -=--+---11-+-+--1 transmis­sion 
--+-~1-+-+--1 22 "-Johnny!" 23 Sty sound 24 Woods 25 Misinformed 28 Road sign 
30 Preachers of the gospel 
35 Voice imitator Mel 
36 Young fish 37 Wearaway 38 Breed of 
cattle 40 Led 41 Three-
match 42 Occur 43 Golf club 47 Agts. 48 Garret 49 Golfer's 
aspiration 54 It's your choice 

Tuesday's Solution 

1123183 

direct from Broadway! 


''AffiA DEUS'' 
1981 Tony Award winning play!! see it with your student union 
march 5 At Chicago's Schubert Theater 
Tickets available at the Student Union ticket office Bus leaves library citcle at 12:00 pm, returns 8:30pm 
Berke Breathed 

ARE> 
•..F/5HIN6... YOU 
KNimN6•. SCORIN&? SKY PIVIN6.•• 
Jeb Cashin 
David). Adams 
Campus 
•1 
:30 p.m. -Workshop, Sophomore Literary Festival, Barry Lopez, Library Lounge 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Warcinoma and Its Beautiful Alternative," Bart Saucelo, M.D., 124 Center for Social Concerns 

•4 
p.m. -Career Planning Workshop for Soph­omores andjuniors,joan Mcintosh. 222 Ad. Build· ing, Sponsored by Placement Burez 1 

•4:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Brig. Gen. Larry N. Tibbetts, Library Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "Role of Sporulation-Regulated Genes in Saccharomyces cervisiae," Dr. Mary]. Clancy, Galvin Life Science Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Dr. Anthony Black and stu­dents of the London/Rome summer program, No site ofevent given 


•: and 9 p.m.-Film Series, "I Claudius," 14 CCE 
•7:30 
p.m. -Reading, Sophomore Literary Fes­tival, Richard Brautigan, Library Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Bengal Mission Bouts, ACC Arena, SI.50 to S4 

•7:30 
p.m. -International Folk Dance Party, St. Mary's Club House 

•8 
p.m. -Choral Group, Trinity, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Sponsored by Senior Class, 


$.25 

•8:15 p.m. -Lecture, "Population Control and Economic Development," Dr. Donald Barrett, 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

T.V. Tonight 
8p.m. 
9p.m. lOp.m. llp.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
12p.m. !2:30p.m. 

16 Real People 
22 25th Annual Grammy Awards 
28 Tales of the Gold Monkey 
34 Great Performances 
16 Facts of Life 
28 The Fall Guy 16 Quincy 
28 Dynasty 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 16 Tonight Show 22 Hart to Hart/CBS Late Movie 
28 ABC News Nightline 28 ABC Late Night News 16 Late Night with David Letterman 
The Far Side 

... 

56 Ranch 
guests? 57 -Boleyn 58 Related 59 Wieldsa 
blue pencil 60 Seines 61 Leapin'­62 Sight, 
for one 
DOWN 1 Page 2 "-want 
for..." 3 154 4 Antler 
branch 5 Personal 
decision 6 Not here 7 Rivulet 8 Influence 9 Lamb's 
mother 10 Express 11 Borouf:Jh 12 Low jomts 13 "-of 
robins..-" 19 Select teams 21 Bakeshop 
wares 24 Ziegfeld 25 Fighting 
companion 26 Ananias, for one 

27 Part of the eye 28 Caleb or Joshua 29 Arabian 
garment 30 Have being 31 Stumble 32 Metal vein 33 Elysium 34 But: Lat. 36 Monastery 
resident 39 Chemical suffix 40 Stare with open mouth 42 Western capital 
43 Central American language stock 
44 Make amends 45 Trick 46 Skins 47 Sculptor 
Auguste 49 Strenuous walk 50 Hosiery shade 51 Norse war god 52 Earns after 
deductions 53 Being: Lat. 55 Coolidge, 
to friends 

----~~------------­
Wednesday, February 23, 1983-page 12


S~orts 
Dolan stars inside 
ND eases past Hofstra, 61-50 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI ~howed in the shooting and free­fouls by sinking all six of his first-half .\jJOrls Writer throw percentages." The Irish shot free throws along with a I0-foot pul­59 percent from the field and H5 per­lup jumper. llis four rebounds at the
., 
Key spurts, along with a tenacious cent from the line as opposed to end of the first half also led both 
dt:fense in the t1rst half, helped lead HofStra's 4 5 percent shooting from clubs. Notre Dame to a 61-5p triumph over the tleld and 5H percent accuaracy After missing hi~ first thret: shots the Flying Dutchmen of llotStra last from the charity stripe. and commiting two early turnover~. night at the ACC. Junior Tom Sluhy, who had spent Paxson took over in the 11nal seven 
The win lifts Notre Dame's mark Monday night in tht: int1rmary, and minutes of the first as he accounted to 16-H and sets up Saturday's show­all-American .John Paxson -played for I 2 of ;\/otre Damt:'s final 16 down against DePaul at the especially key roles in the t1rst half points in the fir~t half by knocking Rosemont Horizon for a possible spurts. down three shots from the deep cor­spot in the NCAA Tournament. Driving to the hoop with author­ners, driving the length of the floor 
After Hobtra jumped out to a 4-0 ity, Sluhy consistently drew fouls with a behind the back move on a lead, the Irish put on their first spurt from the off-balance Hofstra 
see EASE, pg. 10

of the night as they outscored the defense. Sluhy made most of the Dutchmen in the next nine minutes by a 16-4 count. Included in that stretch was an H-0 spurt by the Irish in which their aggressive defense 

Big Ten reprimands 
held Hofstra scoreless from 12:46 to 
7:21 of the t1rst half .. The second major spurt came af­

Knight for comments 
ter Hof.qra cut Notre Dame's lead to 16-I 4. From there, the Irish went on CHICAGO (AP) -Indiana Uni­the pertinent information resulted a I 0-1 tear to go up 26-I 5. versity coach Bobby Knight yester­in the conclusion that there was a Defensively, Notre Dame once again day was reprimanded by the Big Ten violation on the part of Coach dominated as it allowed only two for hb recent tirade against basket­Knight of the Conference field goals by Hofstra in the t1nal6: 16 ball oft1cials and the conference said Sporstmanlike Conduct Code," the of the t1rst half en route to a 32-21 any additional offense could result statement said. halftime lead. in a game suspension. Indiana University officials, 
"Defensively we dominated at The action was announced by Big Knight and Athletic Director Ralph times," noted Notre Dame coach Ten Commissioner Wayne Duke for Floyd were notified of the action by Digger Phelps after the game, "hut Knight's conduct in games against a hand-delivered letter yesterday then we fell tlat afterwards and Iowa and Northwestern last week. morning, according to the state­coasted." Following a 74-65 victory Satur­ment. 
"We had a breakdown for about day over Northwestern by his first­"Any person who publicly is un­four minutes in the first half," la­place Hoosiers, Knight said, "The duly critical of any game official, mented Hofstra coach Dick Berg oft1ciating in the Big Ten (this conference personnel, another uni­about the first spurt. "Once they got season) has been the worst in my 12 versity, or its personnel ... shall be the lead they were executing very years since I've been at Indiana. subject to a public reprimand for the well on offense and defense and it "It has deteriorated to the point so first offense, and a suspension for 
far that this is the worst conference one contest for an additional of­in the country," said Knight. "We fense." pay the people the most in the The league stated that suspension country to oft1ciate and they literally "in the case of a coach means that don't understand the game." the coach cannot be present in the 
The Big Ten has a gag rule against playing arena for the designated coaches criticizing the officiating number of contests, but may con­

Offbench, Bates 'carries' Irish 
publicly but Knight broke that last duct practice sessions." Wednesday in the final minute of Duke stated in the release that
I By MIKE SULLIVAN tanislao's lineup. She backs up Shari time running out. 
I Iowa's 58-57 victory over Indiana "because of Coach Knight's viola­
Sports Writer Matvey, whose name is found many "It felt good to be in at the end ofa
I when he directed his wrath against tion of Section 2-D, I must impose
times in the Irish record book, and big game," she says. "I've never been 
Duke, who was-attending the game. the aforementioned penalty. Addi­
I Notre Dame women's basketball Mary Beth Schueth, the team's in at the end of a close, important "I'm sick and tired of the gag rule tionally, Indiana University andI coach Mary DiStanislao knows what leading scorer and rebounder. game before. It's nice to know that 
I when it starts hurting kids," said Coach Knight have been advised 
Earl Weaver meant when he praised The players realize, though, that the coach trusted me in that situ­
I 
Knight. "You can't play hard when that if, within one year immediatelyhis team's "deep depth." Since she DiStanislao likes to substitute fre­lion." 
the oftkiating is horrendous." following the date of the public is­came to Notre Dame, and especially quently and that everyone will get So, like the other players on the The Big Ten issued a statement suance of this reprimand, Coach this year, she has successfully used their fair share of playing time. In team, she looks ahead to the last four saying the league has "conducted an Knight again violates Section 2-D byher bench. Nine players have gotten fact, Bates receives more playing games on the schedule with the investigation of circumstances" engaging in any act of un­a good deal ofplaying time, and only time than the person she usually feeling that they are the only barrier around the two games. · one player is averaging as much as substitutes for, Matvey. 
see CARRIE, pg. 10 "A thorough evaluation of all of see KNIGHT, PI~· 10
l 30 minutes a game. "We always keep an advantage if Center Carrie Bates is one of the 
we keep people coming off the 

first players that DiStanislao looks to bench," eplains DiStanislao. "The when she wants to make a change. kids have to think like I do and The 6-1 sophomore has made become comfortable with my pat­
' 
Bengal semis 

some major contributions almost tern ofsubstitution. exclusively as the first or second "Carrie has, so it's important that 

set tonight 

player off the bench. The second­she plays real high-quality minutes. leading scorer a year ago, she is If she gets into the mental set that second on the team in rebounding she doesn't start, it won't help her or 
The 53rd edition of Notrethis year and one of seven players the team." 

Dame's Bengal Bouts continuesaveraging more than six points a "It (playing a substitute role) 

tonight with the semifinal jousts, game, while playing less than 20 doesn't bother me," admits Bates, set to begin under the ACC'sminutes per game. Her 2-i points "She (DiStanislao) never promised South Dome at ..,:50.

against Augustana is the most by any me anything. Shari has had four good 
A pair of bouts in each of nine 

Irish player this year. years and should start, but when she weight classes make up tonight'sBates's most important contribu­isn't doing as well as she should, I'll program. Featured tonight will tion of the year, however, was her try to do the job." 
be the super-heavyweight28-point, 16-rebound performance Bates, however, realizes that part matches between defendinglast weekend against Bradley and Il­of the reason for her non-starting champion Mark LeBlanc and linois State. These offensive con­position was her own failure to train Andy Panelli and between Jimtributions were a major reason that properly in the off-season. 

Seith and last year's heavyweightthe Notre Dame women are in a "Coming into the fall, I wasn't titlist Larry Andreini. 

strong position for an NCAA Tourna­where I should be," says the Kansas Also on the card will he 
ment bid. City, Mo. native. "IfI do this summer defending champions Angelo"Carrie's really starting to come what I should've done last summer, Perino, who will face Mike Sul­on," says DiStanislao. "We knew she however, I should be the fifth player livan in the I6S-pound class, Pathad the offensive tools to be a good instead of the sixth or seventh. You Serge, the returnee at I-tO who player. She has a terrific hook shot just have to kick yourselfharder."· 
will take on John Conaghan, and and good range from the perimeter. Her hard work this season is start­135-pounder Dan McLaurin, who She's just got to take the shots. ing to pay dividends. In last goes against Tony Bonacci. 

"She had a real good weekend weekend's games, not only did she 
The Bengals will conclude (against Bradley and ISU ), which is lead the team in scoring and stand 

1n Sunday's Bengalfirst round, Edmond Kel~}' won this decision
.( 
with the finals Sunday afternoon something we really needed. We second in rebounding, but she was 

from Ed Gavagban. The 140-pounderfrom Grace will go against
I 
at I :30. The finals will be taped

I 
like her to be assertive and play with also among the team leaders in 
Pat Weber in tonight's semifinals. More on the Bengals at right, 
by NBC for broadcast on their St. 

authority." playing minutes. She was also one of 
andpairings inside. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
Patrick's week show. 

The fact that Bates has to come off the players on the court when Laura the bench shows the depth of DiS-Dougherty beat lllinob State with 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 






