.Electronics -page-7
' 

VOL. XVII, NO. 73 the independent ~!Udent Ill'\\ ~papt-r ~tT\ ing notre dame and ~aint mary·~ THURSDAY,JANUARY 13, 1983 

Reagan proposal 
. Sources predict tax overhaul 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President single persons and S85,600 or more proposals, although sources cau­Reagan plans to propose this month for married couples filing jointly. tioned that few details would likt· a major, long-term overhaul of the The idea also is appealing to be included in the fiscal 19h federal income tax system that budget director David A. Stockman, budget plan which the presiden. would include lowering tax rates in who is faced with the prospects of must send CongressJan. 31. exchange for narrowing current deficits totaling S200 billion a year The sources said this initiative is deductions, administration sources and more, because of estimates by separate from a plan for a "trigger" said todav. his advisers suggesting that such an tax increase that would take effect in 
The initiative, which one official approach would result in an overall fiscal 1986 if the deficit is still run­described as "major tax reform," is increase in revenues in spite of a ning above S100 billion a year. to be disclosed on Jan. 25 in the reduction in tax rates. Tax-raising ideas for the trigger president's State of the Union Treasury Department officials are plan are still under review, the address to Congress, according to working on specitk tax revision sources said. the sources, who asked that their names not be used. 
The thrust of the revisions is 
Reagan urges Israel
similar to what has become known as the "flat-rate" tax plan, under which personal income tax rates are 
to reconciliation
lowered but the amount of income subject to taxation is increased be­

TEL AVIV, Israel (AP)-President Lebanon. 
cause of a narrowing or elimination 

Reagan was reponed stepping up Lebanese officials said they ac­of tax deductions. 
pressure on Israel yesterday to break cepted the new American idea of a 
The deductions, which are 

the impasse in the Lebanese negotia­"composite agenda" designed to 
allowed for such items as state and 

tions, and some accounts said he was meet both sides' needs, but wanted 
local taxes, home mortgage and 

considering postponing Prime Min­the issues to be regarded as "topics
other interest payments, business 

ister Menachem Begin's visit to for discussion, not binding prin­
expenses, charitable contributions 

Washington. ciples."
and a variety of miscellaneous ex­

Presidential envoy Philip C. Habib Lebanese radio stations said the
penditures, are subtracted from the 

met yesterday with the U.S. negotiat­main item in the "composite
income subject to federal tax. 

ing team in Jerusalem, and Israeli agenda" was ending the state of war
The sources said Reagan finds the 

news reports said he was carrying a which theoretically has existed 
"flat-rate" approach appealing be­

message from Reagan demanding since the armistice ending the 1949 
cause it would simplify the tax code 

that talks be speeded up. war. Lebanon demands this agree­
and bring about a lowering of the 

The reports quoted unidentified ment be the framework for future 
"marginal" tax rates -the highest 

American sources in Washington as relations with Israel, but Israel con­
percentage at which an individual's 

saying Begin's plans to visit Reagan tends the armistice accord has been income is taxed. 
may be postponed if there is no terminated by later Middle East con­The maximum tax rate currently on solving Lebanon
progress the flicts. 
is 50 percent. That rate applies to 

crisis Begin's spokesman denied the Israeli officials said they would ask 
the taxable income in 1982, after 

reports. There was no comment for minor changes in the American 
deductions, of S41 ,500 or more for 

from U.S. officials. proposal, but they did not elaborate. 
Lebanese, Israeli and American The Israeli army invaded Lebanon negotiators were to assemble in the on June 6 to smash the Palestine Israeli town of Kiryat Shmona on the Liberation Organization and forced Lebanese border today to discuss a the evacuation ofthousands ofguer­new U.S. compromise proposal on rillas from Beirut in August, but
McNeil excitedabout neUJ center 

the thorny agenda issue. thousands more are in northern and The Israelis are insisting that the eastern Lebanon behind Syrian lines. 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE service proJects. classroom that can double as an 

agenda include talks on normalizing The Syrians have been in Lebanon News Editor Most of the 13-member staff had auditorium or theatre than being "in their relations with Lebanon. since snuffing out the 1975-76 moved into their offices by yester­between the mazes" on the eleventh Lebanon is resisting, apparently for Moslem-Christian civil war. 
A hint of sawdust still hung in the day, and a meeting ofstudent service floor of the library, McNeill said. 

fear ofalienating the rest of the Arab Israeli news reports said reasons air as Father Don McNeill and his volunteers was already being held in Shappell agrees, "The educational world, and insisting the agenda for delaying Begin's visit to the staff of the Center for Social Con­the new Volunteer Room. At least link is very important." 
focus on withdrawal ofIsraeli, Syrian 
cerns moved this week into the now five classes are scheduled this See HABIB, page 3
See CONCERNS, page 4 and Palestinian forces from renovated building that used to semester in the multi-purpose class­house WNDU radio and television room where WNDU used to film its stations. newscasts. 
Nebraska snowstorm 
But it's not just a new roof that The building is listed as the CSC excites McNeill. "There was no building on schedule sheets, said unified place (for social concerns Summer Service Projects Coor­projects)," he said Tuesday. "This dinator Andrea Shappell, but has no­

Sisters killed in auto accident 
new place will help pull together thing to do with Corby Hall or the By MICHELE DIETZ their parents Dr.and Mrs. Joseph was a freshman. "It is difficult tothese diverse groups and make a Holy Cross order as had to be ex­SeniorStaffReporter Murphy, and ten brothers and sis­capture the magnitude of Michelle'scomprehensive effort to integrate plained Tuesday to a wondering stu­ters. Dr. Murphy is a Notre Dame spirit in a few words," Hackett said.

service and reflection." dent. 

Notre Dame students Michelle graduate, as are three of the Murphy "Michelle was a woman of gentle­The center had been operating McNeill calls the classroom and Murphy, 21, and her sister Rita, 19, sons. ness, strength and love. In en­since 1977 from two different loca­the potential it has for expanding the died in a traffic accident last Sunday Michelle, an Arts and Letters countering Michelle onetions on campus Volunteer center's educational capacity "the in Nebraska. junior and Farley Hall resident, at­encountered profound opennessServices on LaFortune's second floor most exciting" part of the renovated Rita was killed instantly in the 25 tended the Foreign Studies program and warmth. I didn't know her sisterand the Center for Experiential building. "We are not just a bunch of vehicle pile-up which occurred in a in Angers, France last year. Rita, a Rita as well but having seen them to­Learning on the eleventh floor ofthe bleeding heart do-gooders," McNeill major snowstorm nine miles from sophomore in the college of Buiness gether on occasion I feel very safe in library. University officials approved laughs. "We are an educational the Wyoming border. Michelle was Administration, lived in Pasquerilla saying that the spirit of Michelle islast April a proposal to combine the facility as well." 
taken to Memorial Hospital in East. something that they shared as sis­two in the old WNDU building. The center, he said, encourages Cheyenne, Wyo., where she died the Patty Hackett, assistant rector of ters, yet no doubt each in their ownUnder a new structure, the center teaching, research and analysis following day. Farley Hall, knew Michelle since she unique way."
consists of a bureau for Social related to social concerns, and 
Both women are from Casper, Sister Evelyn Booms, rector ofAnalysis and a Service/Learning hopes to "act as a catalyst" urging Wyo., as is the drier of the car, Pasquerilla East Hall, said of Rita,bureau. Kathleen Weigert, who left students, faculty, staff and alumni to Charles Burns, a senior at Notre "She was active in hall activities,the College of Arts and Letters as as­explore the Christian call to service. 

Dame. Burns received minor in­very wholesome, involved, settledsistant dean, steps in today as the as­"Students graduating will have juries resulting in stitches, accord­in, and always with a smile." 
sist;;,m director of Social Analysis, been looked in the eye by someone ing to Father John Van Wolvlear, Both halls held memorial servicesand will oversee the popular Urban who asks some tough questions," Dean ofStudent Affairs. for the Murphy sisters -Farley onPlunge program, the Social Con­McNeill says in a pamphlet on the All three students were returning Tuesday night and Pasquerilla East cerns Film Series, Neighborhood center. "What are you going to do to the University after Christmas last night. Another service, also onRoots and other programs. with the rest of your life? You've break when the blinriing conditions Tuesday night, was held by thoseSister Judith Beattie remains on been very gifted as a graduate of this caused them to hit the back of a who attended the Angers programthe staff as assistant director and will University -now what are you truck. A semi-trailer then crashed in­with Michelle, and was said bycoordinate Service/Learning that in­going to do with that competence'" to the back oftheir car.

cludes Head Start, Big Brothers/Big And it's easier to be an education­See MURPHY, page 5
The two women are survived by
Sisters, Logan Center and summer al stimulus with a well-lit, 150-seat 


Thursday,January 13, 1983 -page 2 

On the right track 
NewsBrieh 
By The Obseruer and The Associated Press 
The Notre Dame Alumni association will honor an outstanding senior in 1983 when it presents a citation based on both servic.e to the University and community and good academic standing. Officials of the 69,000-member organization say the second Distiguished Student Award will be presented at a national meeting in late April. Nomination forms are available to members of the university community and may be obtained in the Alumni Office, Student Government, and the offices of deans and rectors. The nomination deadline isJanuary 27, and a committee, coordinated by Father David Schlaver, director of campus ministry, will study the list of proposed honorees during February. The award has been described as equal in significance to the present Sorin and Armstrong Awards presented by the Alumni Association each year to an outstanding alumnus or staffmember, respectively, on the basis of service to Notre Dame and their community. The accolade's first recipient was joseph A. Regotti, a philosophy major from Mon­roeville, Pa. -The Observer 
Warren E. Burger,chief justice of the United States, will speak at the July dedication of Notre Dame's London Law Centre. Notre Dame Law Dean David T. Link said dedication ac­tivities would be the last week in July but no precise date has been set. The Centre is housed in Notre Dame's new London facility at 7 Albemarle Street in the Mayfair district. Tbe Law Centre is under­written by part ofa 1981 S4-million bequest from the estate of Dag­mar Concannon ofChicago, a gift that funds the Concannon Program on International Law at Notre Dame. Notre Dame's full-year London law program was established in 1968 and is the only opportunity available to American students to study law abroad on an academic year basis. There is also a summer program of legal studies at the London facility. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Law School publication has changed its name from The Notre Dame Lawyer to The Notre Dame Law Review. The new name appears with the 58th volume of the magazine and is intended, according to its editors, "to reflect our continuing efforts to become a widely read and recognized legal journal." The journal, which is edited and staffed entirely by Law Students, was established in 1925. Each year, it publishes one volume in five separate issues appearing between October and june. In addition to material written by Notre Dame Law School students, the Review publishes articles and book reviews by law professors, judges and practicing lawyers. -The Observer 
Father Theodre M. Hesburgh,. university president, has been appointed by Popejohn Paul II to an internation­al council which is part of the Pontifical Council for Culture. The Pontifical Council for Culture was created by the Pope in May 1982 and is headed by Agostino Cardinal Casaroli, the Vatican's secretary of state. It will report to the Holy See on the major cultural aspira­tions oftoday's world, as well as do research on the expectations of contemporary civilizations and explore new ways of cultural dialogue. Its international council, which will meet at least once a year, was described by the Pope in a Jetter to Cardinal Casaroli as composed of"qualified representatives ofCatholic culture through­out the world." The international council will meet in Vatican City in January. -The Observer 
The 1982 United Way Drive on campus exceeded its goal with 5141,582 in cash and commitments. The goal was S140,000. Fifty-two percent of the lay faculty contributed S68,371, an average of Sl64.74. Seventy-seven percent of ad­ministrators contributed 525,883, or an average of SIll. Sixty-one percent of staff employees gave 528,870, or an average of 530. Stu­dents raised S7,925, and the Congregation of Holy Cross con­tributed S6,000 on behalf of its members who work at the University. Other contributions came from retirees and emeriti, WNDU Stations employees, Ave Maria Press and the Notre Dame Credit Union. -The Observer 
Notre Dame security officials are investigat­ing the injury of two students involved in an auto ac..:ident Sunday (Dec. 19) at the intersection of Angela and)uniper Road. Stephen Busk and Maureen Goddard, both sophomores, were treated and released from St. joseph's Medical Center. Police said their auto departed the campus from a pedestrian walkway east of Pasquerilla East and was traveling at high speed when it rolled over south of the campus. The case has been referred to the office ofdean ofstudents. Two incidents ofindecent exposure or indecent liberties were also reported to the campus police. A resident of Pasquerilla East 
reported that one of three college-age youths, wrestling on the 
ground near the residence hall, approached her and exposed himself 
about 9:30p.m., Fri. Dec. 17. Two women returning to the campus 
on foot from the area ofEddy Street and South Bend Ave. about 2:30 
a.m. Sunday Dec 19, reported a youth followed them and proposed indecent actions. -The Observer 
Mostly sunny and warm today with the high in upper 30s and low 40s. Increasing cloudiness with a 20 percent chance for light rain tonight. The low will be in the mid 30s. Partly cloudy and mild tomorrow with the high around 40. -AP 
It appears that something worthwhile actually may be happening in Southern California this week. No, they're not demolishing the television studios. The meritorious event is the NCAA Convention taking place in San Diego. And although the annual event has been noteworthy in the past only because of its irrelevance, this dubious reputation may be completely shed by week's end. The major issues being debated by the col­lege coaches and administrators of the NCAA involve upgrading academic standards for athletes entering col­leges on scholarships and swift, punitive action against coaches who violate NCAA regulations. 
The proposals are a welcome change which will at­tempt to overcome the criminal practices which have pervaded college sports tor years, all meant to entice the great high school athletes, regardless ofacademic or mental capabilities, to attend certain schools. The results ofsuch felonious acts have often been devastat­ing to the athlete involved. Completey unprepared for 
life after "college," many athletes turn to drugs, menial jobs or crime. The most shocking case is that of Billy Don Jackson who earned three varsity football letters at UCLA ( 1977·79 ). Last May he was sentenced for the stabbing death of a drug dealer. The judge found him to he illiterate and ordered remedial 
reading and writing courses for him. 
In an attempt to instill some meaning into the term "student-athlete," members of the NCAA have been · voting on a package of 12 academic proposals, any of which could drastically 
I 
The Observer 
Design Editor.................. Last stand Rabbit Design Assistants............. Sarah Hamilton, TomSapp Layout Staff................... a host of kibitzers 
r,•pesel/ers ·········'···················Tom & Bruce News Editor .................................. Vic Sciulli Copy Editor.........................)etf Harrington 
I::tliloriuls Layout ..................... Tari Brown 
Sports Copy Editor.............. Mike Riccardi ND Dar Editor.......................... Anne Bailey .~MC Day Editor ........................ Tari Brown .1)•pists......... ............................ Maura & Tari 
& Betsy & the Torch Ad IJesign.. . ........... Marilyn Larkin Photographer. .......................... Pete Laches 
Guest Appearances........ l>zave, Needless, ~tonk, Ryan, Mike Sullivan, Reggie, Tom Small, joe, Bob Slota, Michelle. Fosi the Domer. Will Hare, McGinn. Bob Vonder­heide, Shirley, 
.tmd a Penguin on the Today page! 
The Observer tUSPS 598 9201 IS published Monday tnrougn Fnday and on nome football Saturdays except dur1ng exam and vaCiit1on pei1oas The Observer 15 published by tne students ol Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Col lege Subscnpl1ons may be purcnased for $25 per year 1S 15 per seme>terl by '"''''ng The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Ddme lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a •nember ol The Associated Press All reproduction ngnts are reserved 
Second class postage pa1a at Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
Mike Monk 
Editor in Chief 

Inside Thursday 

doubt many schools are honest and sincere when dealing with student-athletes. Notre Dames's untainted record was fully documented in last week's issue of Sports Illustrated. Penn State just won a national cham­pionship doing things by the book (hey Gerry, if Penn State can do it, why can't we?). 
But even with these stringent and necessary proposals, will college athletics really change for the better? Problems are already presenting themselves even as the delegates vote. Proposal --18 has been con­
demned by presidents of predominantly black univer· sities who claim that the academic requirements will make it more difficult for black players to attend large. predominantly white in­stitutions. And while it ap­pears that the NCAA is finally putting some bite be­hind its bark, what is going to be done to insure that the measures are followed? The NCAA's book of recruiting regulations has grown a lot of cobwebs in coaches' offices throughout the country. A few more rules are not going to miraculous­ly convert all the crooked coaches and administrators, 

hut enforcement might. And not the type of wimpy en­forcement practiced by the NCAA in years past. Cheat­ing has paid great dividends for many schools. Clemson, UCLA and USC are the most prominent examples. Before the relatively stringent penalties were levied against Clemson, colleges caught with their hands in the cookie jar received no more punishment than a trip to the woodshed. 
The NCAA is now on the right track. But for the new proposals to be as effective as they appear on paper, the organization must forge ahead with closer observation and greater enforcement. Otherwise, the Billy Don jacksons will continue to fall prey to the money and prestige hungry jackals ofcollege athletics. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily represent the views of The Observer or its editorial board. 

change for the better the present corrupt nature ofcol­lege sports. 
Just yesterday, with the vigorous backing of joe Paterno and Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, the delegates passed Proposal 48 which requires a minimum number of math, English and science courses before a high school graduate can get an athletic scholarship. It also requires a ridiculously low SAT score of 700 (the national average is H93) and the athlete must maintain a GPA of 
2.0 while in college. 
If nothing else, this positive movement of a group whose previous preoccupation was pointing fingers at each other at least signals that changes are being at· tempted. Even before the vote, members of the Pac 10 and Big 10 conferences said they would impose the standards themselves even if the NCAA did not. Whether that was just meaningless rhetoric to neutralize the prying press and pacify an outraged public or genuine sincerity will never be known. No 
Featuriing:
Scott Jrord 
USPTA Tennis Pro Progressi\7·e Clinic 
Limited Enrollment Advanced Registration -Jan. 16, 18, 20 ACC Fieldhouse -8:30-10:30 p.m. On Court -Dress for Activity Bring Rac~quet 

The Observer Thursday, January 13, 1983 -page 3 
SMC security gate 
Extra guard to rem.ain posted 

By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Saint Mar)''s Executi1•e Editor 
The additional security guard posted in the :\1cCandless lot at Saint Mary's before break will continue on an unofficial basis, according to Robert Foldesi, director of person­nel. 
The guard. posted from dusk to 2 a.m., was tested in a trial period the two w~eks before break. 
According to Foldesi, "the trial period went extremely well. It was successful from the point of view that there were no (security) inci­dents" before or during break. 
There was some confusion concerning the permanence of the guard. Folde~i ~aid he has not offi-
Thieves burglarizebar over break 
By MARK WORSCHEH 
Assistant News Editor 
The Senior Bar was burglarized twice during the Christmas break. Thieves escaped with a safe in the first incident and stereo equipment in the second. said Security Director Glenn Terry. 
No suspects have been ap· 
prehended. and an investigation is 
being conducted by the Security 
Department. 
According to statements from the Security Department and Kevin Woods. a manager ofSenior Bar. the first break-in occurred sometime be­tween 12 and .., a.m. December 22. Thieves broke through sen·ice win­dows which serve the beer garden to enter the building. After search­ing a desk and prying open an empty cash register, they left with a 200 lb. safe. Woods said that the safe con· rained S52 and had a replacement cost of s I 'iO. 
In the second incident. thieves broke through some large glass win­dows short!\· before!. a.m . .January 2. They escaped with a tape deck and a pre-amp valued at sy;o. 
A S I 500 security system was in 
the process of being installed during 
. . . Habib 

continuedfrompage 1 
Cnited States would be to wait for Jordan's decision on whether to join Mideast peace talks, and for the fin­dings of the judicial inquiry into the September Beirut massacre, which could shake Begin's government in­to calling an early election. 
However. Begin's spokesman, Uri Porat, dismissed the reports as "ridiculous juvenile speculations," saying he could not imagine any u.s: administration taking such a line. 
He told The Associated Press that no date had been set for the visit. Reagan had invited Begin to Wash­ington at the beginning of the year, which could mean any date up to March 15, he said. 
)OB 


OPEtt! 
Applications are being 

accepted for the position of Assistant Features Editor for The Observer. leave appli­cations with the Features Editor by noon Monday. Resumes should include any experience in journalism writing or paste-up. 
THIS IS A PAID POSITION 
the first burglary. The system was working and an alarm rang during the second, hut Terry explained that "we didn't respond in the right way 
Other than the break-ins at Senior Bar, Terry said that the Christmas hreak was a "nice mild one." No dorm robberies have been reported, and he said that he was only aware of one theft from an automobile, a tape deck stolen from a car on lot C-2. 
Terry said that a "basic unit of eight patrols" monitored the campus during break. In a change from previous years. he said that these officers sent notices to rectors about things they found in the dorm. such as unl<Kked doors. radios left on. and windows left open. 
The Security Department. in addi­
tion to its campus duties, also hosted 
a seminarJanuary 6 entitled" Human 
Relations and Interpersonal Rela­
tions and Communication." 
Seventy-two police officers. includ· 
ing 20 from the Securil\· Depart­
ment, attended the program. which 
featured FBI agent Stel-e :\1cVay 
from Indianapolis. 
cially given the authorization to con­tinue the McCandless guard. 
Security Director Anthony Kovatch said the guard would con­tinue to be posted. 
Foldesi said that as security direc­tor. Kovatch is authorized to assign a guard. "He may have taken it upon himself to authorize ·it. I guess the answer is that he has put people out there until we come to a final deci­sion 
A number of security optiom are being considered, according to Fol· desL 
Ashack similar to the one located at the main gate of the College may be built near the McCandless lot. An­other option is placing a gate at the main entrance, similar to the ones utilized at Notre Dame, in order to monitor cars on campus after dark. This suggestion was made several years ago but turned down due ti> cost and Saint Mary's tradition as an open access campus. 
The gate is being considered again. however, according to Fol­desi. A traftk counter will be utilized soon to determine the volume of traffic on campus. 
No progress has been made in the search for suspects in the two assault attempts on campus last semester. 
Sergeant Greg Dclinski of the Detective Bureau ofthe Saint .Joseph County Sberilfs oftke said no addi· tiona! int{>rm·ation has been reported. "We're just .in a holding pattern until something breaks," he 
~aid. 

Buy 

@~;3®~W®W 
CLASS\ F'EDS 
NOW IS THE TIME TO RESERVE 
ASUMMER JOB IN THE ARMY RESERVE. 
\\'hy should you thmk ahout a summer JOh noll'' Because the 
Armv Reserve has manv dilterent skilb avadahle. including skill> in f1cld, 
like mcdJCal technnlof..'"· engmeering. and elecrwmcs By JOmmg the 
Reserve noll'. you Gm secure skill rrammg. And vou ll'on't ha1·e to ll'ail 
unnl summer to start earning money. 
The Reserve will guarantee vou summer skill rrammg ur to mnc months in ad1·ance. if vou qualifv You attend m<'nthlv ll't'l'kcnd mccnng> at vour local Reserve unit. ;Jnd after the fn-st three month' \'llU start ea~ing overS/) a month. 
Then. this summer and next. you take vour h;~sic ;~nd 'kill rraming full-time. And you get full-nmc Armv r;J\' of o1·er S1.100 e;~ch summer If vou 'd like to get a he;~d start,1n the summer 1oh hunting sea•,on. call the number bcloll' Or swr hy. 
ARMY RESERVE. BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
Sgt Messner I Mr. Bair 234-4187 
.11ost students don't look forward to buying their books but Bob Faust seems pret~)' excited about the matter. The bookstore will be bu~y this week as students rush to buy their books but extended hours me~)' shrink the lines a bit. (Photo bJ' Pete Laches) 
SENIORS May 1983 is just months away, what next? CONSIDER an alternative 
A I year postgraduate experience stressing: 
service, simple living, and Christian community. 
HCA volunteers are in serveral American cities. 

For more information contact: 
Mary Ann Roemer, 239-7949 
Center For Social Concern 
Applications are now auailable. Deadline for application Feb. 8, 1983 
COMMITMENT 
to 

CARING AS AN AIR FORCE NURSE 
A new world of nursmg opens when you become an Air Force nurse. 
You ar@ commuted Jo !he welfare of service members and their dependents. With worldwrde employment and trace! opportunities. you'll receive a highly competitive pay and compensation package. 
If you're pur"ung a bachelor of scrence degree rn nursing and are qualified. you could lwcome a member of the USAF Nurse Corps Jhrough Air Force ROTC. You may also be eligrble for on AFROTC two year nur"ng scholarship which pays full tuition. lab and incrdenJal fees. books. plus $100 a month tax-free. During Jhe last Jwo years of AFROTC. yuu wrll recerve $1~ a month tax free dunng !he school year even if not on scholar>lup 
So whrle workrng for your degree. consrder the advantages of Air Force ROTC and 
th~ exciting world of an A1r Force nurse. 
Contact Capt Gomez 
219-239-6635

BOTC 


Gateway roo great woy ollile. 

About AFROTC at Notre Dame 35 Years on Campus! 
The Observer Thursday,January 13, 1983-page 4 

continuedfrom page I 
:\lc:'\lcill said he is very pleased with the 52'"'0,000 renovation, which was under the direction of Cole Associates architecture tlrm. In addition to the classroom, the cen­ter also ha.~ a Hospitality Hoom, Cof­feehouse for informal discussions, a Hetlection Room, Heading Room and ten offices. 
And the offices have windows. "I used to have these pictures to remind me there was a world om there," McNeill joked. "Now it's like a tlshbowl," Beattie said. 
The staff members just hope the campus can now see them. "We were tucked away in corners that no one ever knew about," Shappell said. 
'With this new building, we arc saying that social conerns is a top prioi-ity t(>r the campus." The build­ing is located between Breen­Ph•llips and Memorial Library, and McNeill thinks the library's location offers the center additional ex­posure. 
The vacated offices on LaFortune's second floor will he tilled by the senior, junior and soph­omore class officers, according to Director of Student Activities Jim McDonnell. But McDonnell said that the assignment is not guaranteed on a long-term basis, and that "we are looking at the entire building to come up with a plan for using the whole building." 
The coffeehouse in the Center for 

...................................................................................................................
,,,,,,,~

i ' ~
1 Ihe ObseLVer ~ I DELIVERY DRIVERS NEEDED ~ 
~ ~ 
I STARTIMMEDIATELY !I Cfl'-· 3HOURSONWEEKDAYS Ii I

pAID POSITION I CALLMARKAT 239-7471 I 
~................, ................................................................................,,,,,....., ..........,,,,J 
J 

1. 
Must be ell'olled in "' approved BSN IJOgran. 

2. 
Must meet all _other cofll11issioning criteria. 

3. 
Automatic 30 days vacation with pay each yea-. 

4. 
Match steady adv"'cement with competitive say. 

5. 
Attend a oorse internship in a modern, wei-equipped Air Force healttl CMe facility. 

6. 
Abenefits package second to none. For mere information contact 



SSgt. Gary M. Absher 219-289-6019 collect 
...Concerns 


Fire claims life of incoming grad student 
Cindy Fitzgerald, 32, an incoming bet:n smoldenng 111 a chair in the graduate student this semester died living room. Firemen found the last Thursday from injuries suffered woman lying on the living room in a tire at her Northeast Side home floor. With burns over 80 percent of in South Bend. her body, Fitzgerald was taken to St. 
Joseph's Medical Center, where sheA candidate for the MSA program died the next day.
at Notre Dame, Fitzgerald had been a According to a friend of the vic­
teacher for about seven years· and 
tim, Fitzgerald was divorced two
was to attend Notre Dame's years ago and had no children.
graduate school this semester. 
Funeral .arrangements were made According to investigators, the by Hessel-Cheslek Funeral Home in tire staned from a cigarette that had Sparta, Mich. 
The American Red Cross is having courses in water safety and tlrst aid. The Water Safety Instructors Class will begin on Sat, Jan. 15, at 9 
a.m. at Rockne Memorial. Prerequisites for this class are a current life saving card and swimmer level certificate or ability. The Standard First Aid Class will be held onJan 18 and Jan 20 from 6 to 10 p.m. in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. The Advanced First Aid Course will also be at 218 Rockne Memorial. The prerequisites for this class are standard first aid and CPR. For more information or to register, con­tact Louis Hurcik at Room 215 Rockne or call 239-5043, or 239­6321. 
·················~·············
: Attention : : Photogr•aphers:=Observer-=-openings for staff
• 
: & alternate photographers. 
•
• 35 mm equipment &
•
: good B &W darkroom :skills a must• 
• To apply, contact Rachel Blount at :~83-7959 or 239-5313 • 

AUDITIONS AUDITIONS AUDITIONS 
for the ND Student PlayE,r's Spring Musical 
@'Jan ofLa Manch~ 
Sat Ja11 15 
Sun Ja11 16 
2:00pm Washington Hall 
Social Concerns will he open to the. campus day and night, and .'\lc:'\leill said a student architect's plans for a patio may hecome a reality hy next semester. 
The incn:ased social space, ,\lcNeill said, might "help break down the harrkr" between academics and faculty-swdent rela­tions. "We now have a place where a prof can relax with a student after class and continue the dbcussion." :'vtcNdll said the space will also he available t(>r committee meetings t<>r student volunteer projects, and will bring people in contact more of ten with the center's activities. 
But above all, McNeill says no plans ti>r use of the building's f:~eilitit>·, are •wt in cnncrete. "There will ht some critiques as we go along, ami we will he open to what the students ·want to do with this building." 
Two open houses arc scheduled t(>r .I anuary 21 and fehruan· :1 hoth from -t p.m. to S::\0. 
Currently, thert: art: nearly 20 dif ferent volunteer service groups. made up of almost I ,000 :'\lotre Dame and Saint :\laf!..s under­graduates. An activities night is scheduled t(>r Tuesday to present the programs to the campus com­munity. 
The center is one of tin: centers that comprise the 1\otre Dame In­stitute for Pastoral and Social .\1inis­tf!'. 

The Observer Thursday,January 13, 1983-page 5 

PHOENIX, Ariz. (AP)-Awoman who says she was swindled and abandoned by an admitted bigamist says she married him despite his as­sertions that he was involved in or­ganized crime and was wanted for questioning in gangland slayings. 
Giovanni Vigliotto, 53, who ad­mits he has been married 82 times, is being tried on one count each of bigamy and fraud for allegedly bilking Patricia Gardiner out of S~6500 in cash and property when he disappeared two weeks after their marriage on Nov. 16. 1981 
On the witness stand a second day Tuesday. .\Is. Gardiner. -12. a real est.tte agem and pan-time bar employee in suburhan .\lesa. ack­nowledged under cross­examination that Vigliotto had told her that his family was involved in gambling interesb in Nevada and dsewhere. that he had dealings with the Cosa ~oMra in Ulythe, Calif., and that he was being sought on a federal warrant involving 68 murders in :'>Jew Jersey. 
.\ls. Gardiner also said Vigliotto revealed during their eight-day courtship that he was being sought on a NewJersey subpoena requiring him to testify against members ofhis family in a gambling case. 
Asked how she felt about the dis­closures, :\Is. Gardiner said, "It 
didn't alarm me to any great extent." She testified that Vigliotto told her of his purported involvement in un­derworld crime and killings after they sold her house and were driving to California, en route to what she believed was his home in Hawaii, complete with servants and bodyguards. 

'"Weekend Special'' 
Thurs/ 
Introducing Budweiser 
Fri 
Draft Happy Hour4-8 Pitchers $2·95 (FREE SNACK TRAYS) sat Margaritas Liters $5·95 (all night) FREEHOTCHEESENACHOS 
GoND, Beat Marquette!! 

0 J· A...,

.\...~.., 15% Discount 
~ not including . 
' sale Items 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
Operation Brainstorm winner 
Undergraduate club proposed 
By KATHLEEN DOYLE 
Assistant .Veu·s Editor 
Imagine a bar on the :'1/otre Dame campus! 
An undergraduate club. having all the characterisitics of a bar except alcohol. was the idea selected for first prize in the "Operation Brainstorm" contest sponsored by the Student Senate. 
The social club proposal was sub­mitted by Peter Ciotta, a junior American Studies major. 
The l'ndergraduate Club would serve non-alcoholic drinks. while placing emphasis on dancing, 
popular  music,  and  lighting.  The  
Chautauqua  Ballroom  is  the  sug­ 
gested location for the club.  

"Notre Dame students under 21 need an attractive place to relax, find entertainment. and to informal­ly socialize." said Ciotta. ''In Chautauqua there are already tables, chairs, lighting, a sound system, and more than sufficient space. Easily ac­cessible exits and decorative wall murals all currently exist," he said. "Through the positioning of tables. creative use of lighting, and the playing of contemporary dance music, the Undergraduate Club could easily be a reality at no cost to the administration or students." 
Ciotta also proposed that the non­alcoholic drinks be served from "two real bars," to enhance and complete the Undergraduate Club's 
Corby's 
commitment to providing an atmos· phere that would be similar to a real bar. 
These bars. possibly built by stu­dents. would be situated directly below the murals near the main stairway. Drink possibilities sug­gested by Ciotta include fruit juice drinks. club soda, tonic water. Pepsi, --up, and non-alcoholic daiquiris. 
The club proposal also includes possibilities for student employ­ment. Student disc jockeys, barten­ders. busboys, ·and bouncers could be employed. The College of Busi­ness might easily become involved in the operation of the club, giving students the opportunity to run an actual business. 
The Undergraduate Club would be open on a regular basis, maintain­ing regular hours on specific nights. 
Ciotta also suggested live band acts, dance contests, dorm party nights, and specialty nights, such as Rock and Roll or New Wave night, as one future possibility for the Under· graduate Club. Affiliation with such groups as the New Wave club was also proposed. 
"Considering the insignificant cost and major gains -responding to and relieving the need for new so­cial space and attacking the problem of alcohol abuse -the administra­tion, faculty, and students must sup­
port  the  institution  of  the  
Undergraduate  Club," Ciotta  em­ 
phasized.  

Ciotta believes that the best way to begin operation of the l'nder­graduate Club would be on a long term trial basis. ''The club can become reality with active support If the cause of taking action against alcohol abuse is emphasized, this club will succeed. because :'>Jotre Dame people respond to just causes,"Ciotta added. 
... Murphy 
confin"uedfrom page I 
Father Gene Gorski, director of the program last year and Howard Hall rector. 
A University memorial :\-lass for Michelle and Rita will be said by Father Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­sity President, Tuesday, January 2'i at 'i p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. according to Father john Fitzgerald. Associate Director ofCampus Minis­try. Hopefully members of the Murphy family will he able to attend, Fitzgerald said. He added that memorial services will probably be said in most halls this weekend. 
Funeral services were held last night in Saint Anthony's of Padua Church in Casper, Wyo. Father Don McNeill, Director of the Center for Social Concerns, was a concelebrant of the service and Sister Jean Lenz, rector of Farley Hall. also attended. 
Attention Observer­Subscribers 
Please Renew YOUR SUBSCRIPTION NOW IF YOU WISH UNINTERRUPTED DELIVERY 
THOSE WHO ORDERED THE YEARLY SUBSCRIPTION NEED NOT RENEW 
Send Renewal and $15 ·00 check to 
The Observer 

P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, ln. 46556 


Business & Technology_Th_urs_day,_Janu_ary_l3,_198_3_pag_e6 
I. 
I. i' 
, ' 
~ 
Engineering Update 
Transit advances resulting from research at the Uni­versity of Notre D!!-me are being put to use in the transit systems of four U.S. cities to prevent costly cold weather shutdowns. Originally approved by Congress to recejve S5. 5 million of fiscal year I980 funds as the initial funding of a S20 million program, the cold weather transit technology program is a cooperative venture consisting of background research conducted at Notre Dame and design and engineering developments completed at Vought Corp. Model equipment from the project is being tested in buses and rail transit in Boston, Chicago, Lansing and Niles, Michigan. Directed by the Urban Mass Transportation Administration, the UMTA has recently called for the program to be re-oriented to produce more short-term results and has delayed further funding after having ad­vanced S I I million. -The Observer 
· EconomicUpdate 
u.s. business executives are planning to cut 
spending for expansion and modernization for the second straight year, a new government survey indicated yesterday. The cut, after discounting for spending due only to higher prices of materials and labor, would be a sharp 5.2 percent decline from the I982 level, according to the Commerce Department report. Government offi­cials and private economists had not expected spending for new plants and equipment to show much recovery before business in general starts to improve after the long recession. But the size of the newly estimated spending decline seemed to show business con­fidence at a lower level than many analysts had thought. -AP 
Wall Street Update 
The stock market finished mixed in heavy trading vesterdav. The Dow Jones' average of 30 industrials closed with a ~light Io~s at 1,083.61 after making a brief run at the 1,100 level. Analysts said some traders evidently had decided in advance to take some profits when the Dow reached 1,100 for the first time. They said hopes persisted for a broadening economic recovery. 3ut they added that there were no fresh news developments to account for today's midsession upsurge. Advances outpaced declines by almost 2 to I on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 
109.85 million share, against 98.25 million in the previous session. 
-AP 

Ir.----------------~
I I I I I I USED TEXTBOOKS I
I 25 °/o off list price 1 1 3-5 day delivery ifnot in stock 1 
I 
I IBuying used texts 1-4pm ffion.-Thut. OPEN 11-6 WEEKDAYS I 
11-5 WEEKENDS I 1 937 So. Bend Ave. 233-2342 1
·-----------------· 
Marketing research suggests 
Youth change brand preferences 
By MILTON MOSKOWITZ 
.Special to the Observer 
Two marketplaces cigarettes and automobiles -will change dramatically if you project forward the current research findings on brand preferences ofyoung people. 
Marketing experts attach special importance to establishing brand preferences at an early age. People being what they are, creatures of habit, the theory is that if you get them to start using your brand when they are young, they will stick with it as adults. You can see this message repeated over and over again in the messages youth magazines beam at advertisers. 
In the old days the surest predic­tor of which brands people would select was the brands their parents bought. These days, when television and other media start zeroing in on children when they're very young, brand prcfen.·nces are not likely to be so predictable. Kids develop their own favorites. 
If you believe the studies that have been done in the cigarette market, Philip Morris will soon be king of the hill. The maker of Marlboro, Benson and Hedges, Vir­ginia Slims, Merit and Parliament, Philip Morris has been gaining steadily on the opposition for the past 2S years. It has come from last place in the field to second place, just a cigarette's width behind longtime leader R.J. Reynolds, maker of Winston, Salem, Camel, Vantage, Now, Dora! and More. 
Reynolds now has about 33 per­cent of the total market, Philip Mor­ris 32 percent. Marlboro has been the top-selling brand since 1976 when it edged ahead of Winston. 
But what the future may bring was indicated recently by Diana Temple, a security analyst at the big Wall Street house, Salomon Brothers. Temple reported that among young cigarette smokers, people between the ages of 18 and 22, the Philip Mor­ris brands hold more than SO per­cent of the market. 
That's bad news indeed for Reynolds. If these young smokers continue to hold their current brand preferences, Philip Morris will 

DOW JONES \'------­INDUSTRIALS 
1973-83 All Time High
High <md Low for Year 
1092.35 
soo• 

1973 74 75 76 77 78 79 
Tbis chart plots the year's high and lou• for the Dow jones In· dustrial Az,erage for the period of 1973 to jan. 12, 1983. The average closed Monday at a record high of 1,092.]5. It soared to abm;e /,100 yesterday before falling to 1,083.61 to close. 
Visit 
The Oak Room Cafe 
Mon •Thur 9 • 1 2 
Fri & Sat 9 • 2 


decimate the opposition. 
The switch from Reynolds to 
Philip Morris has cultural and 
demographic overtones. Marlboro 
8 and other Philip Morris brands ­
have always been strong in uban 
areas, appealing to "urban cow­
boys." Camel and Winston are 
stronger in rural areas. Philip Morris 
is headquartered in New York, 
Reynolds in Winston-Salem, North 
Carolina. 
Equally foreboding for General 
Motors, Ford. and Chrysler are the 
results of market surveys in the 
automotive field. Here too brand 
preferences used to be tied strongly 
to family loyalty. If your father drove 
a Chevrolet, you would be likely to 
choose a General Motors product 
for your first car. Now it seems that 
young car buyers are in revolt 
against their parents. 
It's no secret that foreign cars 
have been taking bigger and bigger 
chunks of the U.S. market. Their 
share this year is over the 25 percent 
mark even though the Japanese 
companies are holding down their 
exports because ofour protests. 
Owning 2S percent ofthe U.S. car 
market is an impressive achieve­
ment. But this may be only the 
beginning. Researchers looking into 
who buys what report that among 
buyers under 30 years old, the im­
ports have SO percent of the total 
auto market. 
That's going to be a tough hold to 
shake. A buyer who's satisfied with 
his or her car tends to look for the 
same make again. Detroit has always 
stressed the importance of building 
this consumer loyalty. So if these 
young buyers of Toyotas, Datsuns 
and Hondas stay with their current 
brand preferences, the U.S. auto in­
dust!')' is going to be driven to the 
wall. 
:Sex aids ~:oro nary ,victims 
By ROBERT LOCKE 
AP Science Writer 
Sex, "one of nature's finest 
tonics," is not only possible after a 
heart attack but seems to help with 
recovery, a psychiatrist says. 
"People who return to a sexual life almost invariably have a better prognosis in terms of returning to work...and to socializing" after heart attacks, said Dr. Thomas P. Hackett, chief of psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. 
It is a damaging myth, he said Tuesday, "that once you have a (heart attack), you're over the hill and there's no sense in even talking about sex because you can't have it anymore." 
Hackett said an unwarranted fear 
of death during intercourse is givtln 
as the main reason sexual activity 
decreases by an average of 50 p ~r­
cent among heart attack survivors. A 
quarter of all such survivors never 
resume sexual n:lations, he said. 
He told an American Heart As­sociation Science Writers Forum that sex after heart problems is em­phasized because "it seems to be a key to progress in rehabilitation...lt is one of nature's finest tonics." 
Hackett is co-author ofa Heart As­sociation booklet on sex and heart disease that will be published this year. He said research has shown that sex, at least within marriage, "is relatively safe insofar as its effect on the cardiovascular system." 

Editorials 
Thursday,January 13, 1983-page 7 
Electronics toy with reality 
Christmas presents ofa few years ago quick­ly lost their luster as children, young and old either used up the batteries or grew tired of the whistling trains and erector sets. But the microelectronic toys of the past few years have survived the test of batteries and boredom with A/C rechargers and inter­changeable programs. With a subtle twist of the wrist, electronic toys have snatched bil­lions ofdollars from a docile public. 
Paul McGinn 
Roper Review 

While these new toys have made science 
more enjoyable, dots of light and periodic 
beeps have replaced reality. 
The boom in electronics is not totally new; radio primed Americans for the audio/visual revolution. All of us have heard the charming tales ofparents and grandparents who used to huddle around the house's only radio to hear FDR, Amos and Andy, and Fibber McGee and Molly. 
They tell of the family togetherness which now seems so lost among the television generation. They wonder how the young can spend five hours a day watching television in­stead of playing stickball in the street. 
But what so many of the past generation have forgotten is the massiveness of the media revolution. The changes in the media over the past decades are not inherent to the media or the messages, but spring from the numbers associated with this mass com­munication explosion. 
Just as we want the media i:o bring us everywhere, so too do we want to bring the media wherever we go. We think nothing of having a television in every room or an AM/FM stereo radio in every car. 
Christmas 1982 brought its usual share of electronic objects, but the most obviously proliferated product is the traveling cassette player, complete with headphones. The stereo revolution which sent the recording in­dustry reeling in the early sixties now appears on sidewalks and bikepaths. 
The great blooming of music which took sound from the recording studio to every home is now even challenging the birds, trees and plants. 
Our senses have become so dulled to our environment that we choose to titillate our ears while merely catching glimpses of the scenery. 
We no longer breathe, taste, smell, listen or see the sights which surround us. Our eardrums pound to the beat of music which invariably and offensively leaks from lightweight headphones. Walking no longer becomes an invigorating way to see our en­vironment, but a vector-like blindness which ends only once we arrive at our destination. 
Much as the video games tuck us into four walls, the audio toys lock us into one-sided 45-minute tracts. One wonders when com­pact audio/visual toys will strap themselves to the necks of the present Walkman wearers. These compact versions of M-TV might even include a device to signal the approach offel­low walkers, so that the audio/visual junkie might look up in time to avoid meeting a fel­low encapsuled addict. 
We no longer worry about the dangers of lack ofexercise when we use electronic toys, because we take our playthings to the very events which are socially incompatible with such toys. Monday Night Football cameras al­ways locate a crowd gathered around a televi­sion. Rarely do we go to a Notre Dame football game where someone is not plugged into a portable radio. 
We have become so lost in the mass mess of communications that we ignore the subtleties of a singular event. We instead seek a wide "knowledge" ofthe programs available on our dials. 
It seems so comical that the communica­tion boom which strives to bring the world closer to us only takes us away from ourselves. 

P.O. Box Q Tootsie reveals good risk of friendship 
DearStudents: 
Most of you saw a wise and delightful movie over Christmas break, Tootsie. You liked the warm, spontaneous, unselfish woman that Dustin Hoffman created in the movie. You almost felt she was a real person,
j. 
even though you saw with your own eyes how he did it. 
In an interview, Hoffman explained how much he had learned from transforming himself into Dorothy Michaels. He said that he was shocked to realize how much physi­cal appearance controlled the way this woman was treated by men. She was almost invisible to men because she was not young or conventionally pretty. (Her set director can't even remember her name.) Observing the way men related to him as Dorothy ­"having men meet me, say hello and im­mediately start looking over my shoulder trying to find an attractive woman" -made him very angry. "flut I also realized I wouldn't ask myself out: if 1 look the way 1 looked as Dorothy. I wouldn't come up to myselfat a party." 
"What a waste." he reflected, imagining all the people he might have passed up because they didn't fit a certain visual standard. He says he thinks most men don't feel attractive, and they want to get a good-looking girl next to them to enhance their image. Dustin Hot: fman didn't say it, but I suspect it works the other way too -a woman isn't sure of her attractiveness so ~he tries to get a handsome man beside her to confirm it. 
I fear that here at Notre Dame this kind ot emphasis on looks is spoiling the social life ofmany students, both good-looking and not so good-looking. The big crowded parties so characteristic of Notre Dame life promote the emphasis on appearance. Dense masses of people looking one another over, maneuvering, trading up, ditching a moderately handsome companion for some­body one point higher -this cannot be satisfying. 
But large-crowd parties are always like this, in the student world as in the adult world: maneuvering and trading up. Con­versation is brittle, shallow. hypocritical. No opening of hearts takes place: no exchange of real opinions or real personalities. Only the tin coinage of faddish slang and name­dropping passes back and forth. Who enjoys such parties? Who expects a churning crowd of two hundred to yield rewarding· encounters? 
If you think social life at Notre Dame is barren of rewarding encounters, it might be that you're detlning social life in a false way. A satisfying social occasion is not a hundred people; it's tlve or six people doing some­thing together that they all enjoy, such as having a picnic, going to a play, eating and drinking around a table. Or it's four people playing bridge; or three people hiking; or two people telling each other about their childhoods and getting to know each other. 
Getting to know each other does not take place at Corby's or at a hot noisy section party. At those events, social life con­centrates on the skin, the hair style, the bodi­ly contours, and the clothes. You put each other into computers; good hair, click; no pimples, click; streamlined figure, click; con­fidence, dimples, pedigree, the right accent, click, click, click, and out comes the rating. An utterly mechanical, superficial evalua­tion. 
What a waste, dear students. You're pas­sing up charming, original, funny, warm-hearted people that could make your life richer and help you grow. Look at the person sitting next to you in a class, or at a dining hall table. Say something. Open your­self. Take a risk. He or she might be as delightful as Dorothy Michaels in Tootsie. 
Elizabeth Christman 


Editorial Board Department Managers
Ihenbset:ver==== 
Box Q, Vutre Dame,/.\' ·J65;6 
Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk Business Manager................. ...........Tony Aiello
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the ~tudents of the Uni­
Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Controller .............................................Eric Schulz 
versity of l'o:otre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect 
Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic AdvertisingManager......................Chris Owen
the policies of the administration of eitl)er institution. The news is reported as ac­
,<,MCExecutive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Production Manager.................. Maura Murphy
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa 
Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto
majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters, and the Inside Column depict 
Editorials Editor ........................ .... Paul McGinn Systems Manager ........................... Bruce Oakley
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, 
Features Editor ..................... _;.-,srph Musumeci
and the free expre,.sion ofvarying opinionson campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Photo Editor...................................Rachel Bloum Founded November 3, 1966 
(219)239-5303 
-·-.. ·----...··--· 

Sports=B=r=t=·=~h.t..=s====l:===========T=h=ur=sd=ay=,=Ja=nu=a=ry=I::::3,~1~98=3==p=a=ge=s 
By The ()bsert•er and The Associated Press • • • 
w0 men 

Dan Devine wasin the news again over break, this time being prominently mentioned as a candidate for the then-open head coaching job at Philadelphia's Temple 1 'niversny. A promment Temple alum had contacted the former Notre Dame coach. now president ofthe Sun Angels. a booster club at Arizona State, and had scheduled Devine for a campus visit to Temple after the New Year. Devine had consented to the trip, but removed hu:nself from_ con­sideration the next day. Bruce Arians, an Alabama assitant. was finally 
hired. -The Observer 

Ifyou readsports Illustrated from the back. you no dou~t · d J hn lJnderwood's storv last· week detailing Notre Dame s
nouce o . . athletic program and its status as an example of a clean~y run program in an era of mischief. Underwood's story, 'Castmg a Sp~oal light', was a response to a challenge by Rev. Edmu_nd J<?-ce,_ C. S.C.. Notre Dame's Executive Vice Pres1dent, to 111\,esug~te a clean, academically sound program on the eve of the NCAA s San D1ego convention (at which Joyce was slated to speak yesterday). In It, Underwood lauds NO as an example of an athletic program whiCh does not compromise the University's academic or ethical integnty. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Boxing Club would like to 
announce that practice for the 19H3 Bengal Bouts has started. Practice is from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. Anyone who is interested is welcome. No prior experience is re­quired. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's intramural hoops
leaguestarts on January 31. Team rosters and an entry fee of s1 are due by 5 p.m. on Monday. January 17. The league is open to all Saint Mary's students, staff, faculty, and administrators. -The Ob­
server 

All students are invitedto participate in an eight­week Winter Agility and Quickness Program starting on Monday, January I"". This rigorous workout will include quickness and agility drills. along with stretching exercises. Workouts will be held on "<londays, Thursdays, and Fridays from -t-6 during the eight-week session. If you plan on participating, please attend the first workout, .\londay,January 17 at 3:-tS in the ACC Pit -Tbe Obserl'er 
The Notre Dame soccer teamwill hold a short 
meeting at S:OO on Thursday, January 15 in the ACC auditorium. ­
lbe Obsert•er 

The NVA office has announced deadlines for entries for some spring semeMer sports. January I') is the deadline ti:Jr both men's and women's volleyball. The deadline lor doubles racquetball and doubles handball is January .20. The oftlce also made some more announcements. There will he a tennis clinic on January 16, 1H,and .20 at H:.)0-1 0:30p.m. featuring Scott Ford. For more information call 239-6100. Cross-country ski rentals are available again this year. Call .239-6100 tor more details. Finally. aerobic exercises will be held on .\londays and Wednesdays at 4:10 in the ACC beginning on january I 7. -The Obsert•er 
The Baseball Hall ofFamewa~ increased by two 
more players yesterday with the election of third baseman Brooks 
Robinson and pitcher Juan .\larichal. Robinson, one of the greatest 
defensive players in baseball history during his 23 years with the Baltimore Orioles, became only the 1-tth player elected in his first year ofeligibility. Marichal. who played most ofhis career for the San Francisco Giants, won 243 games in 16 seasons. Named on more than -s-percent of the ballots returned by 10-year members of the Baseball Writers Association of America in its annual election, Robinson and .\larichal will be inducted into the Cooperstown, N.Y., shrine on August I. -AP 
continuetlfrom page 12 
The Notre Dame olfcnse was powered by sophomores .\1ary lkth Schueth and Carrie Bates, and fresh­man Tn·na Keys who combined ti:Jr S2 points on 6--percent shooting from the tloor. Junior co-captain Theresa Mullins also gave the team an unexpected offensive boost with some long-range shooting. 
Even more impressive. however. was the :'>iota· Dame S0-2.~ rebound­ing advantage. Schut·th pulled down a season-high I6 boards while fresh­man Lynn Ebben grabbed eight. 
Despite the victory, Coach Mary DiStanislao was less than pleased with her team's pt·rti>rmance. espe­cially the first and last five minutes of the game. 
"We're still coasting," she said. "They don't understand that the· games are -!0 minutes lor a reason. At least we could muster some killer instinct out of the bench." 
-Mike Sulliuan 
ND 72, Villanova 68 
VILI..AC\IOVA, Pa., Jan. 5 -Notre Dame utilized solid defense. S7 per­cent shooting from the tleld and a 41-30 rebounding edge to defeat Vil­lanova University, 72-6H in a women's basketball game at the Field House here tonight 
It took three clutch free throws by freshman forward Trena Keys to ice Notre Dame's eighth consecutive win and onlv the seventh 'Cathouse loss,for ""'ov~ in live years. The Irish survived a frantic llnish which ~aw Villanova's aggressive pressure deiense melt a nine-point "'otre D;1me advantage to three in the last 
1:-t-. 
'Nova, ranked tenth in the nation in free throw percemagt·. lived up to that ranking, mamtaining the lead for most ofthe tlrsl half. The Wildkit­tens connecrt·d on 19 of 21 charity tosses in building an early five-point advantage. However. ~otre Dame·, right ddensl· held \'ill;mova to six outside lleld goals to keep their op­ponents from taking control of the game. 
Laura Doughertv scorn! 12 of her game-high 16 points in the half to keep Notre Dame close. and Lynn Ebhen hit an outside jumper to give tht: Irish a 32-.) I halftime lead which was never relinquished. 
"I was happy with the tlrst half 
defense." said coach .\1ary DiStanis­
lao. "We effecuvely took away any 
inside game they had. But the num­
ber of tinlls made the game dis­
jointed and kt·pt them in. There was 
no question that it belonged to u:-., 
though. 
Thanks to Keys' I I second-half 
points and team-leading seven 
rebounds, the Irish were ablt-to 
build a nine-point lead before \'il­
lanova's last-gasp run. 
''I've tried to put across (the idea) that pressure defense is more a psyche than anything else," said coach Mary DiStanislao. "We failed to execute against it, and just held on. It's one thing to win a game that's nip-and-tuck all the way; it's quite another to fritter away a nine-point lead in the la~t two minutes." 
-Mike Riccardi 
ND 52 , East Carolina 50 
Dec. 30 -Notre Dame survived a furious second-half rally by East Carolina to gain their seventh con­secutive win, a S2-50 decision today at the ACC. 
The Irish, who had built a I 0­point lead, needed 1 2 points from Laura Doughety and 1 I from Shari Man·ey to hold on for the two-point win. 
Ruth Kaiser and Mary Beth Scheuth combined for I 5 rebounds in the ballgame, which provided a stiff test for a team about to embark upon a taxing three-game Eastern swing. 
continuedfrom page /0 
early, however, as they were 
defeated by Michigan Tech 9-6 in 
the opening round. The Irish 
defeated Tech last year to win the 
title. 
Tech opened the scoring at -:.~6 
of the tlrst period on a goal by Todd 
Scott. Sean Regan returned from the 
injured list for his tlrst action this 
season and knotted the "core at one. 
two mmutes later. Tech 'n>rnt 
again .It 12:02. but three minutes 
later freshman Bob Thebeau tied the 
score at two. With Mark Benning 
"enurg a controversial douhk 
mmor for being the thtrd man into 
an altercation, freshman Todd 
Tuomie connecte,d liJr una~~bted, 
~honhanded goal that gave the Irish 
a -~-2 lead. The lead was shortlivcd. 
though as Tech's Scott got his 
second goal of the game on a 
powerplay just .)•1 seconds later. 

In the second period. Tech came out charging, out~hooting the Irish 22--and outscoring them+ 1. Three of the goals, one of which was a powerplay. came within I :S6 of each other beginning at the -t:S' mark. It was Toumie again ti:1r the lrbh at 5: 19, tieing the score at tour. but Tech got goals from AI Radke and Jim Husted at 6:I3 and 6:'i5 respectively to put them ahead 6--t. 
Atter a disappomtmg second period and still trying to defend their title. the Irish came out tlghting in the third period, scoring quickly a~ senior co-captain John Higgins 
ND 75. E. Michigan 58 
December I<; -The 'l.;otre Dame women's basketball team has made ~econd-half comebacks a habit and it proved to be more of the same tonight as the Irish rallied from a seven-point halftime deficit to heat Eastern .\lichigan. -s-SH. at the ACC. 
Seventeen C\lotrc Dame turnovers 
•md an excellent 20-point, 6­
rehound performance by the 
llurons' scoring ace, forward Jane 
Shaffer. gave Eastern Michigan a .)5­
26 halftime edge. 
"Eastern came to play," explained Irish coach .\1ary DiStanislao. "They were enthusiastic. and we waited for it to come to us." 
The points tlnaih· started coming to Notre Dame in the second half as Trena Keys led a -!9-point barrage. scormg 12 of her team-high 20 points. Mary Beth Schueth added nine second-half points and senior Shari Matvey tlnished with 1-t. 
On the other end of the court, the Irish held the Hurons to six field goals in the entire half, including holding Shaffer to just one basket. 
-Mike Sullivan 
• • . leers 

cut the Tech lead to -:r.s less than three minutes into the period. Four minutes later. junior .\like .\letzler got a powerplav goal with assists from Brent Chapman and Thebeau to pull the Irish within one at --6. 
\X'ith things looking better l{)r the Irish, senior goalie Bob .\lc:\amara kept the game close with ~uperb goaltending. eventually setting a per-.•nal record lw ~topping -t-of 'ih 'hots. 
":\111 time 1 ou score six goab. it ~hould he enough to win a game... 
said  coach  Leftv  ~mith.  "\\'e  just  
weH·  not  phvsictl enough  on  our  
defensive c;nerage.  

Poor defensive plav combined with a lack of offen~i\ e punch proved to he the Irish demise in the consolation game. the next e\'ening, as they were hlastnl hy .\lichigan 12­.'> . .\lc'l.;amara was given a rest and freshman .\!arc Guay made his tlrsr start as an lnsh leer and was prompt­ly greeted by a tlying .\lichigan at­tack. "'ot being ahle to get the offense on track proved <;ostly as the 
Irish managed to score just once and trailed at the end of one period. -t-1. 
Two tournament attendance rt·conls were set this year as the crowd of IH. IHS that witnessed the tlrst night's action was a tourney record for opening night; and the crowd of 21.4_>.-the second evening was not onh a tournament record. hut according to oftlcials was the lar­gest crowd ever lll sec a hockey game in :"Jorth America. 
_-Ed1Jonztt11Sk)' 

The Observer will accept classrfreds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m to 4 30 p m However. classrfreds to appear rn the next rssue must be recerved by 3 p.m. the busmess day pnor to rnsertron All classrfreds must be prepare 
!classifieds erther rn person or through rhe marl 
unfurnished 2 br a~1 near ND Ut•ht1es pd, less gas. ph 2720261
ILNOTICES II.___r_tc_KE_Ts___, 
UGLY DUCKLING RENT -A-CAR. Fnaay noon til Monday noon $29 95 IncludesTYPING. Jackie Boggs. 684-8793 
Help' I need some BBall Tix Help'Not lUSt 
150 free miles Sales tax and msurance 
any T1x Help'I need 3 GAs for lhe Feb 5 
extra Phone Rob lor reserva11ons 259·
I So Carolina game Tom.288-8004. 
8459 : jLOST/FOUND 
Can I PLEASE have my new blac< Calvin Kle1n down Jacket back?·-1 m 'reeZif1QII It was last seen at South D1n1ng Hall last 

1~..-"_r:-~-,~-wR_s~~-~-Tw_ante----,!1L-_W_A_N_TE_D_~\ 
Thurs ( 12/9). Please call x2658 '' you have anv Knowledge of itS whereabouts share 4-bedroom home w1th 2 other Law Students CompleTely turn1shed FOUND. One calculator 1n the ••nguage $75/month 288-3109 HELP'I NEED A RIDE TO PA FOR lab See Mr Ab1lh 1n Room 250 () Shag BREAK CAN LEAVE WED AFTER 4:00 
Room '" 4 1/2 bath home 1n wooded area CALL MEG 7628 FOUND: David Crocketl H1gh R1ng · Tw0 m1les from Notre Dame Sw1mmmg Class of 79 Call Matt 1244 poot, rec room w1th fireplace. Sate With WASHINGTON DC AREA · Student 
pl.,nty of off street park1r>g. Wash..r and e~<·~<:Jerately 1n NEED OF A RIDE HOME found: small cross 1n front of ACC on orver Cdll Mrs Cooper 272-3004affer 12 FOR ThO( HOLIDAYS!!! Please Cdll Peul reg1stration d3? Call 2748 after 10 noon at 1167 (;an reave 12/2fl or later 
RIDERS wanted to MN Dec 22, 288­1917, K1m 
need Pnnc1ples of Bus•ness Law by Cor· ley anrl Roberts call Dan dl 1487 
Wanted. Mag1c1an Call 239-7~75 from 8 arn to4·45 
ll-_FO_R_SA_L_E____, 
FOR SALE: "Habla Espanol? Book Won :XX..k. and Lab Manual for MLSP nos 102 6 116 Call JOE 289 · 5964 
BOOKS FOR SALE: FOR CLASSES GOV T 340, GOV T 343. PHILO 222. FINANCE 231 BOOKS NEEDED FOR ECON 225. GOV T 406. GOV T 410, AL 300 STATS. CALL CHRIS AT 8573 OR 3510 ANYTIME 
PERSONALS 

HEY DESIREE ' We know thdt 11 IS you who doeo; e-r11enmenls tor the space snuttle .S:J t~:n·l not Qlve !he Observer an lnterv,e~-' 
SENIOR SKI TRIPIII Mandatory: Balances due January 13th! Turn in balance Thursday or forfeit depo&it. Think Snow !Ill 
ATTENTION JUNIORS If you nave not turned 1n your $45 depoSit, for The SKI TRIP. you must do so by Sa~ . Jan 15 You can drop It oH anyt1me ar 418 St Eo s or 233 Walsh There IS sroll hm11ed space ava1lable lf Interested. call8046 or 8089 
Bye 9ii ... Gregory 
Bye c;reggv The System 
ASK THE V!-. T Mr• r. <>rotecls Pup 
EATING DISO~'<C>ERS !Buhm1a Anorex1a •\lervos~J .~1'3rupt thousands of hves each tear Th~J Counsehng & Psy­choiOQ!Crtl ~u:, .·:c i Center of Notre Dame wt/1 r;o r.onduclmg a 10-weE-• struc1urej grntJp 'or persons w1th these d1sor:~ers ~or tr•,orm<"ltlon/regtstratlon. contact Dr Dan ~vb1CI<t or Dr Sue Stetbe al239-7336 ,IMITE!J ENROLLMENT 
B P SISTERS 
Ml\'1' 1HE LORG >lEVER HAVE TO 
HELP ANY OF US FOR 
BF-NEENIN(; BOTH OF YOU MEAN 
TOO MUCH TO ME FOR THAT THANK 
YOU FOR A F.A.NT.O.STIC WEEK! 
LOVE. 
·SUNSHINE 
Ct"'iQr~tLI .a-1-on:;. i.outse and John!! Besl wtshes for e1 naJJ;., ;.tf> together 

The Observer Thursday,)anuary 13, 1983-page 9 
...Wildcats 
continuedji·om page 12 
Kenny Wil~on. Cliff Trihus and John Carroll combined to score -t'i points to lead the Wildcat~ to their tlrst win ever agam~t the lri~h. a 'i+ 'i 1 overtime up~et hcfore 'i,O:'>I at the Charlone Colheum. 
The lri~h onct· again hlew a halftime lead. as they ~hot just >,6 percent ( I 0 for 2H) in the second hal( hut still had a chance to win in the final minute of regulation. But john Paxson·~ huzzer-heater fell short. and the game went into overtime tied at -t9. 
In the extra ses~ion, Davidson's Brian Rowan. who scored just tlve points the entirt: game. hit three free throws to provide the winning mar· gin. All Notre Dame could manage in the overtime was a Tom Sluhy jum­per with 2:29 left to give the Irish their last lead at 'i 1-'iO 
From there, the Wildcats took possession, and called two timeours to set up Carroll's \vinning jump shot with 27 seconds left. Notre Dame held for the last shot, hut Pax­son's turnaround jumper was off­line. 
Freshman Tim Kempton paced the Irish attack with 16 points and seven rebounds, but commined seven costly turnovers. Paxson chipped in 14, but he and Kempton received little support; the rest of the team shot a combined 1 0-for-30. 
-Chris Needles 

ND80, Wm.&Mary63 
Dec. 30 -Notre Dame con­
cluded its season opening nine­
game home stand tonight with an 
80-63 victory over the Indians of 
William & Mary. 
The triumph left the Irish with the 
6-3 mark that most predicted for the 
team to finish with in its opening 
home stand -losses to the "big 
three" of Kentucky, UCLA and In­
diana, and victories against the com­
petitive but outmatched teams from 
Stonehill, Saint Francis, Fairtleld, 
Dartmouth, Valparaiso and William 
& Mary. 
As in the Valparaiso game played 
eight days earlier, a fantastic field 
goal shooting effort of 6S percent 
( 36-for-SS) paced Notre Dame to its win. However, unlike the \'alpo game where the great majority of points came from tlte inside power game led hy Ken Barlow and Tim Kempton, the majority of baskets against the Indians came from pin­point outside shooting hy guards John Paxson and Joseph Price, and­
forward Billy Varner. 
"William & Mary packed it tight against Kempton and Barlow inside and that's why we went more to the outside shooting," explained Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. 
The strategy worked well in the first half as Paxson scored 12 points, Price scored all f()ur of his tleld goals in that stanza. and Varner was a per­fect :'>-:'> from the field as the Irish pulled out to a :'>H-2S halftime lead. 
With the outside game es­
tablbhed, Notre Dame started 
hammering away more on the inside 
in the second half as Ken Badow 
scored 10 of his 12 points in the 
second l'eriod. Paxson, once again 
rook top scoring honors as he 
finished with 20 points. 
Two of the brightest perfor­
mances in the game for the Irish 
came from the bench as Varner and 
freshman guard Joe Buchanan 
helped establish a tempo that kept 
the Indians from ever really closely 
contesting Notre Dame. 
Varner was S-for-7 from the field 
as he finished with 12 points while 
Buchanan scored six points, handed 
out three. assists, set up another 
score after a mid-court steal, and 
most importantly, helped run the of­
fense well. 
-Louie Somogyi 

ND 108 Valparaiso 70 
Dec. 22 -John Paxson's 1,000th career point, a dominating inside performance by the three freshman frontliners, and surpassing the cen­tury mark for the first time in three years highlighted Notre Dame's 108­70 romp over the Valparaiso Crusaders tonight at the ACC. 
While Notre Dame's 17 turnovers indicated some rustiness from an 11­day layoff, it was greatly over­shadowed by a scorching 6S percent shooting effort from the field (on 4S· for-69 field goals), and an amazing 
I,---------------~\ 
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
III  Welcome Back ND-SMCStudents  III  
II  The Colonial Pancake House invites you to enjoy one ofou  II  
II  many breakfast specialties: OVENBAKEDAPPLEPANCAKES  II  
I  AND OMELETTES! **************************  1  

I $1 OFF:: I 
Iourfamous apple pancakes I 
I Good through 1/23 w.,.~ I 
I ************************** I 
I U.S. 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland I 
..._________________,
\ open 6:30am 7daysaweek I 

1 j,· ·---------------------------Men's Hair Styling at its finest I 
I _/'.~c-:~~~ 'The Knights ofthe Castle' 1
I , 
"4 For the total look on a styled Hair Cut : I1 
1 Hair Cut Shampoo 1A£~ueell's 1 Blow Dry & Condition 1
1 

I 
Hrs. Tue, wed. sat 8:30-5:li-J Reg. $15.oo ti4C I 
Thur, Fri 8:30-8:30 
1 Closed Mon Now $8·50 with coupon I 272-0312 1
I 277•1619 HairCutOnly Now$6·00 Withcoupon I 
1154533 Terrace Lane Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. I (St. Rd. 23) II Across from Martin's We are only minutes from campus 
1.-----------coUPON•----------...1 
-tH-16 marin in rebounding. 
Besides matching the :'>0-point career high he set last year in the :\lichigan tlnale, Paxson became on­ly the Z"'th player (out of -i :'>0 players) in :--;otre. Dame's 8-t-year baskethall history to score over 1,000 career points. The milestone score came on a fast-break layup in which he weaved through four defenders. To top the night ofi~ the senior dished out a game-high eight 
assist~. 

While the ghost of Paxson's past and present was the big news, it was the ghost of Notre Dame's basketball future which may have pleased Irish coach Digger Phelps lhe most as the ever-maturing freshmen frontliners. Ken Barlow, Tim Kempton and Jim Dolan combined tor S6 points and 27 rebounds. 
Barlow had the best scoring night of his young career as he fired home 25 points on 11-1 S shooting from the tleld. His nine rebounds, meanwhile, were second only to Kempton's season high of 12 this night. Kempton was also a scoring force inside with his 16 points. 
-Louie Somogyi 

Freshmanjoseph Price turned in a l'ery• courageous performance in last Friday's game against Villanova. The guard from Marion, Ind., had to deal with the news ofhis father's death last week, but started both of last week's games. (Photo by Ed Carroll) 
THE NROTC COLLEGE PROGRAM. 
$2,000 EXPENSE MONEY AND ANAVY OFFICER COMMISSION. 
The two-year 1\ROTC College Program offers you two years of expense money that's worth up to S2.000. plus the challenge of rwcoming a J'\avy Oificer \\ith early respor.sibilities and decision-making authority. 
During your last two years in col~ege the :Kavy pays for uniforms. NROTC textbooks and an allowance of SJOO a month for U;:' i:o 20 months. 
NROTC $15,000 SCHOLARSHIPS: 
The two-year I\ROTC Scholarship PnJCTram offers vou ·a two-vear college scholarship that's worth as mu~h as Sl5.000 in tuition 
During college. the .'\ayy pays tumon. cost ol textbooks. instructional fees. and an allowance of SlOO a month for up to 20 months during your last two ~·ears of college. lJpon graduation and completion of requirements. you are commissioned a :'\ayy Officer. 
If you hove a C+ GPA or better, call 
us now as scholarship opportunities hove 
never been better. Ask for LCDR Norrbom 
or LCDR Horstmann at 239-7274 or 239-6442. 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. 



·~ 
The Observer Thursday,January 13, 1983-page 10 
Fourth in GUT 

ND icers set back by 1-3 break 
ByJANE HEALEY portant part of any hockey game, chances. Sports Writer and seeing two different goalies The Irish aren't exactly happy at: made the two games very different," ter the weekend, but they can't real­
The Notre Dame hockey team stated Smith. ly be disappoimed either. The fought its flrst matches of the new The abundance ofpenalties called balance of the schedule is seen by year in Sault St. Marie, Mich., against against the Irish was the other Smith as a test of Notre Dame's Lake Superior State last weekend damaging factor. Notre Dame spent determination. In Smith's words, and came out of the series with a much of the game playing shor­Notre Dame is just going to have to split. thanded due to useless penalties. "suck it up" and keep working to 
The inconsistent Irish defeated "We'd get hit, and then we'd begin winning. 
Lake Superior solidly in the first retaliate and get caught for it," com­
game, 7-3. But the Lakers, aided by a mented Smith. 
Nick Palumbo hat trick, took the The series wasn't all bad for Notre 
Great Lakes Tourney:

rematch, 4-3. Dame. On the offensive front. senior After the split, Notre Dame's over· Kirt Bjork tallied goals in both games 
Michigan Tech 9, ND 6 
all record is S-1 S -their mark is S-to end his month-long scoring 13 in the CCHA, where the Irish drought, while fellow senior Rex 
Michigan 12, ND 3 

share last place with Illinois­Bellomy grabbed his first since Chicago. November 20. 
DETROIT, Dec. 29 -The Notre 
Coach Lefty Smith could cite two Freshman Steve Whitemore Dame leers entered the 1982 Great reasons for the strange turnaround scored his first and second col­
Lakes Invitational Tournament at the team made in the series. legiate goab, and Dave Lucia added a joe Louis Arena yesterday as defend­First, the Lake Superior goalies, goal and assist to his stats. Lucia's ing champions. Their chances for playing hot·and-cold all year, have hard work on the Irish shorthanded recapturing the title were erasedbeen sharing the goaltending duties unit helped to hold the Lakers to on­
in each series. "The goalie is an im-ly two goals in 18 power play See ICERS, page 8 

FromSouthBendTo: MIAMI 
ORlANDO 
TAMPA 

DALIAS/ffW WASHINGTON 
BOSTON 
NEWARK 
-

With Piedmont's new direct and connecting servicethroughDayton,you can saveyourself time and hassle. 
Forinstance,wegiveyou the onlyno..changeservicetoNewarkancl Miami. With fast, easy connections to many other Piedmont cities. 
Just call your travel agent. Or us. After all,now that we're in to\Vn, airtravelis awhole newballgame. 
; 
....;. ;~ 


Piedmont.New To Dayton. 
Call your travel agent,orcall Piedmont in South Bend at 234~5061. 

Ihe~crer========================================= 
~~~~~===========================T=h=u=rs=d=ay=,=J=an=u=a=ry==l=3,=1=9=8=3===p=a=g=e=l=l 
-~----~ ---------~-----­
.. 
.. 



Bloom County Berke Breathed 


5 Israeli 46 Porgy, 21 Ceased coin for one being
The Daily Crossword 
10 Flue 49 Hand 24 Jar 
residue movement 25 Entertained 14 Attempt 52 Mixture 26 Papal 15 Dissemi· 55 Arrow vestment 
nated poison 27 Wading 16 Entertainer 56 Bread bird Ray spread 28 Mixture 17 London 57 Dunce 29 More frigid 
museum 58 Old Scandi· 30 Places one 18 Mixture navian land within 20 Hinders ownership another 
22 Religious 59 Nibs 32 Corrupt, 
house 60 Puts on in a way 23 Deem weight 35 Speakeasy 24 Foment 61 Small 38 Palmerof 
25 Defiled drinks golf27 Agrees 
39 Ornaments 31 Misjudged DOWN on pointed32 Bold 1 Italian roofs 33 Star city 40 Alludeto 34 Punish 2 Pretense 42 Freight:severely 3 Mixtures var. 35 Slowa 4 Narrow 43 Confections vehicle tower 45 Encourage 
36 Fleur-de· 5 Mount 46 Boutique37 Wallach 6 Step or 47 Native of 38 Dress flesh Gdansk 
style 7 Confess 48 Arabian 39 Ant, old 8-room port 
style 9 Supportive 50 Gather 41 Recount 10 Lampoon 51 Sniggler's 43 Primitive 11 Mixture catch 
weapons 12 Redolence 53 Harem room © 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 44 Hathaway 13 Stylish 54 502
1/13/83

All Rights Reserved 


I Student Union Service Commission Sponsors I
----------------------· 

tJnior Bar
I The Book Exchange I 
I DROP OFFS: THUR JAN 13 I 
Wefcmtte Back

I 2-6pm 
1 
b~tmtt crvw~ 'BitWk

I SALE: FRI JAN 14 2-6pm I ujoy OUit s,eclaf3 TN«gkt
I I
2nd Floor La Fortune open 9:30 -2:00 am
I Don't Miss the Bargains! I 
~--------------------~ 
-----· 

Thursday,)anuary 13, 1983-page 12
S_~orts 
Varner, Paxson roll 

Irish bounce back, whip Canisius 
ByWILLHARE Golden Griffins' last game versus Following a road loss at 14th­Sports Writer upstart New Orleans, Canisius only ranked Villanova and a humiliating committed four turnovers in the defeat at Davidson, it was simply a 
Notre Dame still seeks its first opening session. good feeling to notch a victory. major victory of the season, yet the "Notre Dame's pressure shut "I think to bounce back was the confidence cannot be lacking after down our offense," added Macur­important thing," said Irish coach last night's 78-47 pounding of lowly chuk. "I credit Notre Dame's Digger Phelps. "You can't take any­Canisius ( 2-9) at the ACC. pressure and man-to-man defense thing for granted wday after what 
Bill Varner and John Paxson tonight." happened to Virginia (the top­combined for 39 points to lead the Notre Dame also used hot shoot­ranked Cavaliers were beaten by Irish, now 7-5 heading into an away ing to dispose of Canisius. In all, the NAJA school Chaminade December game versus Marquette Saturday af­Irish, ranked second nationally in 24). ternoon. field goal percentage behind well­"We didn't play well at Davidson. 
Aft~;.r outscoring the visiting Gold­coached Stanford, made 32 of its 54 We can't look past anyone. We simp­en Griffins I4-2 over the last shots for 59 percent. ly have got to keep the confidence five-and-a-half minutes of the first Varner and substitutes Ron going until we beat somebody." half, the Irish moved to an Rowan and Jim Dolan combined for Even though the Irish forced an overwhelming 35-I6 lead at the in­I6-of-I8 from the floor (88.9 per­up-tempo game with the constant termission. cent). pressure, Notre Dame made far too 
"That stretch at the end ofthe first Also contributing was center Ken many rurnovers to be considered half killed us," said Canisius coach Barlow, who hauled down a game­over the hump. After losing the Nick Macurchuk. "The pressure bot­high nine rebounds while adding Davidson game solely due to ex­hered us in the first half." two steals and a blocked shot. cessive turnovers, Notre Dame was 
That was an understatement. Guard Ray Hall was the lone Gold­sloppy again, committing 15 more 
Employing full court pressure en Griffin to net double figures, turnovers. throughout the first half and an ag­scoring I3 points. Hall connected The positive sign from this game gressive man-to-man defense the on several twisting layups late in the comes from the improving defense, entire game, Notre Dame forced 23 second half but Canisius could get which made its second straight Canisius turnovers. This included I4 no closer than 20 points down over strong outing. Ken Barlow has also miscues in the first half alone. In the most of the second half. gained more confidence defensively 
after battling the strong frontline of 
Villanova. 
Should the Irish shut down the 
front line of Marquette, their next

Villanova, Davidson 
opponent Saturday in Milwaukee, Notre Dame will force a sporadic Warrior backcourt to take control of

thwart ND on road 
the game. And maybe, just maybe, Phelps and his Irish will come up

By CHRIS NEEDLES senior all-America candidate, into a with the big win they've been
SportsEditor sub-par six-point, two-assist perfor­waiting for all season.
mance in 28 foul-plagued minutes. 
PHILADELPHIA-"All we have to The Irish used six consecutive 
do is beat somebody that's good," points by Paxson to take their big­
Digger Phelps has been saying all gest lead, 37-29, with I6 minutes Lose to No.3 Marvland 
season. "Then we'll be all right." left. But the 'Cats battled back to go 
Last Friday, Notre Dame had a on top 45-43 with seven minutes left 
Wotnencotnplete 3-1 break
golden opportunity to register its on an Ed Pinckney dunk to cap a I2­2 spurt. Pinckney, the super sopho­
first big victory of the season. The By MIKE RICCARDI 25 free throw shooting was their on­Dawn Crosby. The 5-I 0 guard 
more forward from the Bronx, led all
Irish led No. I4 Villanova University Sports Writer ly decisive statistical edge. averages I9 points per game. The scorers with I9 points and a game­
by eight points with I2 minutes left, Down 46-3I at the half, Notre game, set for 7:30 tonight, was a late high eight rebounds.
only to see the Wildcats storm back COLLEGE PARK. Md. -You Dame had a chance to cut UM's mar­replacement for Georgia Tech,
Notre Dame took its final lead at
to capture a 6I-55 win before a sell­couldn't tell from the statistics, but gin to nine early in the first half, but which withdrew from the schedule. 51-49 thanks to four points in a row
out crowd of9,208 at the Palestra. the University of Maryland's third­Shari Matvey's offensive foul gave IRISH ITEMS -From the San 
by senior Bill Varner. But 'Nova im­
The loss overshadowed a heroic ranked women's basketball team Maryland a possession and Marcia Marcos, Calif society pages: Fresh­
mediately ran off an eight-point
performance by Notre Dame fresh­rolled to a 22-point victory over Richardson's drive off the fast break man Cathy O'Brien has decided to 
burst to put the game away at 57-51 
man guardJoseph Price. Notre Dame last Saturday before touched off a I3-point Terrapin lc:ave the basketball team, and the 
Price pumped in a career-high I5 with a minute left. 5,800 at Cole Field House. The Irish spurt that put it out of reach for the University in order to get married in points despite learning two days ear­Paxson tried valiantly to bring the women (9-3) lost a chance to tie Irish. July. The Maryland game was lier of the death ofhis father. The el­Irish back with two buckets in the their school record 10-game win­It was Notre Dame's ability to har­O'Brien's last on the Irish bench -a der Price died ofcancer onJan. 4 in a final minute, including an incredible ning streak and finished their East­ness Maryland's explosive fast break pre-season ankle injury precluded 
Marion, Ind., The 20-footer from the deep right corner her from
hospital. news ern swing with a 2-I mark. that kept the Irish within range in appearing in any varsity reached the team was offa mid-air pump fake, to close ND 84-62 wasn't of Dame's
while it in The verdict the first half. Laura Dougherty contests ....All Notre Charlotte, N.C. to face Davidson. within 57-55, but that was as close as 
reflected by a commanding scored I1 ofher team-high I3 points losses have come to nationally­
"Joseph showed a lot of courage the Irish could get. Maryland lead in any ofthe statistical early to help Notre Dame pull to ranked teams. "It (the Maryland to do this tonight," said Phelps. "This The loss left the Irish 6-5 on the categories. The Terrapins took one within 38-29 of the undefeated Ter­game) is a good experience if we is the first time I've had a kid's parent season, but 0-4 against teams in the less shot than the Irish, connecting rapins with three minutes left in the !.earn from it, and don't let it happen die in the middle ofthe season, and I Top 20. on five more. Notre Dame, thanks in half again," said DiStanislao ....Scheuth wasn't sure how to handle it. But he no small part to Mary Beth Schueth's But then, when Debbie Lytle, has pulled down 30 boards in the decided himself that his father game-high I4 rebounds, was only Maryland's quick guard, was last two games ....Scheuth's num­
would have wanted him to play Davidson 54, ND 51 outboarded by four, and the Irish on­awarded a basket after a foul call on bers in the classroom are as im­
tonight." ly turned it over four more times Dougherty, DiStanislao was charged pressive as her numbers on the 
Price shot six-for-eight for the CHARLOTTE, N.C.,Jan. 4 -After than their hosts. with a technical for disputing the court. Her GPA of 3.684 for the last game, and singlehandedly kept the nine straight home games to start "Their foul shooting and offensive call, and the Terps proceeded to two semesters has qualified her as a Irish in the game while John Paxson the season, Notre D t arne ventured on boards won it for them," said Irish waltz into halftime with an 8-2 spurt nominee for the academic all­searched for his jump shot. The all­the road for the first time tonight to coach Mary DiStanislao. "They gave and leave the Irish looking at a 15-America team. ND's last academic America 1uard, after a dismal one­face Davidson. themselves a lot of second chances point defici~. all-Americans were Maggie Lally and for-seven first half, scored 14 points Call it culture shock, or whatever, at their end, and turned our fouls in­"I thought they called a continua­Shari Matvey, who were accorded after intermission to dazzle the spec­but now you know why Digger to a lot ofpoints." tion basket, and they don't allow second-team honors in I98I. tators, many of whom had seen him Phelps scheduled I9 of 28 games at In fact, fourteen of Maryland's 46 continuation in women's basket­

suffer through a 2-for-I1 perfor­mance at the Palestra a year ago against LaSalle. 
"We wanted Paxson to give up the ball," said Villanova coach Rollie Massimino. "But he made some great shots, even when we double­teamed him. He's a legitimate first­team all-American." 
But, in the end, it was a little-known guard named Gary McLain that spelled doom for the Irish. The 6-I sophomore came off the bench to score eight points, including three driving layups in the final ten minutes. McLain also added four assists and two steals in his 23­minute stint, pid.mg up the slack for highly-touted teammate Stewart Granger. 
Paxson harrassed Granger, the the ACC. 


See WILDCATS, page 9 

Sophomore Ken Karcher, Notre Dame's No. 2 quarterback this past season has decided to leave the University and transfer to either Texas A & M or West Virginia. 
The Glenshaw, Pa. native com­pleted I6 of 38 passes he threw this season for 228 yards. He played most of the Penn State game and started the Air Force game when starter Blair Kiel suf· fered a shoulder bruise. Karcher also held on Mike Johnston's placekicks. 
first-half points came from the charity stripe, and the Terps' 20-of­
ball," said DiStanislao. "But what really got me mad was that he (referee Pete Reed) wouldn't ex­plain the call to me." 
More pleasant for Mary D. was the performance of junior center Jenny Klauke, whose 1~ off-the-bench points to share ND scoring honors with Dougherty. 
"What pleased me most on this trip was that I was able to use I 0 or 1I people and not lose anything," said DiStanislao. "But we have yet to put together a solid 40 minutes. When we do that, we'll roll like Sher­man through Georgia." 
Mary D. must lower her sights for 
now though, as her task at hand i!· 
Division Ill power Augustana. 
Keying the Viking attack will be 
Division III all-America candidate 

ND 78, Georgetown 68 
WASHINGTON, Jan. 6 -The 
Notre Dame women's basketball 
team played possibly its best game 
to date, beating Georgetown, 78-68, 
tonight in McDonough Arena. The 
victory is the ninth in a row for 
Notre Dame-one short ofthe team 
record. 
Some good shooting from the 
lloor and a crushing edge in 
rebounding allowed the Irish to 
overcome an earlv I 0-'l Hoy a ad­
vantage and take a lead ofas much as 
21 points. A late Georgetown surge 
fell far short. 
See WOMEN, page 8 
,( 




