• • • Ghost -page 8 


\'()f.. X\'11. '\/( ). 1 I() thl mdcpt·•Hknt ...ttuknt nn"'"P·•rn ~en mg notn: d.tml' and ~amt m.tn ·, I RID\Y. \lt\1(( .II 1. 19H ~ 
Class officer elections 
Romano, Hockett, Broussard win 
into the second floor Ombudsman "We know what's going to happn," Campus Campaign Reporter office in LaFortune. Her first reac· she said. "We're going to have a tion was to call home. "I've got to good year." Tricia Romano became the first 
BY KEVIN BINGER 
call my dad. He said I'd never make According to Kevin Stierer, Judi· female senior class president in yes· 
it; not a girl." cial Coordinator and part of Lloyd terday's runoff balloting for class of· 
"We.. want to get started right Burke's team investigating junior fleers. away," Romano said. class balloting, Vince Hqckett's vic· Vince Hockett won· the job of 
"Disorientation week is going to be tory will probably stand despite junior class president, and Lee our first event, right away at the some ballot shortages. John Decker, Broussard will be the next sopho· 
beginning ofthe year." presidential candidate of the Mob more class president. 
Romano stressed the experience ticket claimed that there were soph· Romano's ticket won with 63I, or 
of her ticket, which includes Eric omores in several dorms who who 
Wiechart, vice president; Pat Berry,
54.2 percent of the ballots cast. The 
See RESULTS, page 3
secretary; and Bill Kirk, treasurer. Dawahare, garnered 534 votes. Hockett, who finished second by nine votes to Mike Schmitt in the first election Tuesday made up ground in Wednesday's campaign· 
opposing ticket, led by Bill 
House Passes package 
ing, earning 559 votes, 51.8 percent of the number cast. Schmitt's ticket finished with 52I votes. 
of recession relief 
Runners-up in the first election rarely win in the runoff, according to WASHINGTON (AP) The measure yesterday, the bill drew Pat Borchers, Ombudsman spokes· House passe<,! 324·95 yesterday a sharp criticism from Republicans man. 54.9 billion package of recession who complained about "pork bar· 
Broussard's margin of victory relief designed to provide tern· rei" provisions that funnelled funds over his oppponent, Vito Gagliardi, porary employment for nearly one to the districts of influential House was approximately 200 votes. million people as well as food and members, as well as from 
"It feels great, I'm excited," said shelter for the neediest. Democratic liberals who com· 
Romano about her election as the The plan was attached to S5 bil· plained what the bill did not do first female class president. "But lion in funds needed to assure con· enough to deal with the long reces· that's not our full purpose." tinued payment of unemployment sion. 
Romano learned the news at benefits. Together, these provisions 
"Ifyou want to vote for pork, this about 9 p.m. last night as she walked constitute the first major anti· is it," said Rep. Delbert Latta, R-Ohio. recession initiative of the 98th 
"This bill is a frenzied feeding at Congress that took office two the public trough," agreed Rep. Judd months ago. 
Gregg, R·N.H. 
Final passage came after the House adopted a last-minute The current legislation Is es· proposal requiring that most of the timated to provide temporary jobs
President challenges TV networks 
jobs funds go to areas with high un· for almost one million people. The 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -President That decision was made after ad· this challenge: employment. The vote on that equivalent of 400,000 jobs on an an· Reagan challenged television yester· vance news accounts of the speech "April I""' through April 23 is Na· provision was 335·83. nual basis will be created directly day to dwell for a week on good had drawn refusals from all three tiona! Volunteer Week. At least The Senate is expected to approve and indirectly, according to news, namely "the magnitude of maj6or commercial networks. He during that week, America's heroic its own, slightly less expensive Democratic estimates. voluntary activity" in the nation. But noted Rather already had responded private sector's intiative efforts legislation next week. President The measure includes S 1.25 bil· the networks refused to bite on what to the president and remarked, "Dan should be given the attention they Reagan, after abandoning earlier op· lion in Community Development CBS anchorman Dan Rather called a is all up in the air about this." deserve. Then, if the ratings go position to such a jobs bill, has Block Grants to local units of discredited ploy "to try to convince Rather, in New York, called down, they can go back to bad signaled he will probably sign the government as well as S500 million the public that problems are not Reagan's proposal "a very old and I news." measure when it reaches his desk. in humanitarian assistance such as problems." would have thought discredited "Believe me," he added, "there "I hope that the president will food and shelter. 
In a speech prepared for a U.S. technique, which has been used by isn't any shortage of good stories." help us do more, by supporting a Most of the rest of the funds will Olympic Committee fundraising presidents of both parties to try to Reagan cited one he had been told second-phase program that restores go for public works projects such as luncheon, the president suggested convince the public that problems about Monroe, Ohio, which raised confidence .to those still facing transportation facilities, repair of that television news shows set aside are not problems, that the people money to build a gym for its losing economic tragedy," House Speaker public buildings and improvements April I7·23 for "National Volunteer who call attention to the problems high school football team when the Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., said in a state· in parks, forestland and flood con· Week," to test the theory that "good are the problems. school board said it could not afford ment issued after the vote. trol. news isn't good for the ratings." "With respect, for I have respect the necessary 550,000. "With II million people out or Before final approval, the House 
"Then, ifthe ratings go down, they for all presidents, I think the public Speakes said of Reagan's remarks work and two million people with· agreed on a voice vote to include a can go back to bad news," Reagan is smarter than that. There is a lot of yesterday, "I don't call it a knock on out homes, we need to enact this bill proposal by Rep. David Obey, D· said. good news on television, but the media. I call it a good-natured -and we need to do more." Wis., for S200 million for health care 
Reagan asserted that Americans politicians are always trying to sell challenge." As debate opened on the House programs. were unaware of "the magnitude of the idea that the only coverage that voluntary activity going on in this is fair is coverage that is favorable." country" because of television's Greenburg, Abandoned railroad line 
Paul executive penchant for the negative. producer of the NBC Night~y News, "The Olympic effort has the sup· said, "We get this from every ad· 
port of people like (ABC sportscas· ministration. 
Bicycle and jogging path proposed
ter) Jim McKay, (ABC News "We led last night with Barney President) Roone Arledge and, yes, Clark. That's bad news? We had a By GRETCHEN PICHLER industrial area now undergoing ex·.
and Leeper bridges, and eventually (ABC sportscaster) Howard Cosell," story on the upturn in the economy. News Staff tensive renovation.
link up with the East Bank Develop· Reagan said. ABC will broadcast the That's bad news? The pope was bad ment Area paths presently under The East Race, a canal that runs 1984 Summer Olympic Games in news? The abandoned railroad line near construction. through this area, is being Los Angeles. "What is he talking about? Should the Saint Mary's campus may be reconstructed, and will eventually
Burke said that the proposal has 
"Now I realize," Reagan's we talk about EPA where his people be an Olympic kayak training
paved over and converted into a regenerated the city's interest and 
prepared text continued. that "there have messed things up?" asked bicycle and jogging path if the course, the only one ofits kind in the
that Parent's replies have been is a theory that good news isn't good Greenburg. proposed plan is approved by the country. The canal "will provide the
positive and encouraging.for the ratings, but I only wish Dan Jeff Gralnick, the executive South Bend City Council. "It seems to be an idea that has aesthetics and uniqueness" to the 
Rather (of CBS), Tom Brokaw (of producer of ABC's World !jews 
The paved path would enable stu· been on the back burner for a num· bikeway, said Rick Carey, Senior NBC) and Ted Koppel (of ABC) and Tonight, said, "We have been dents to travel safely on a well-lit and ber ofyears," Burke said. Planner of the Department of 
others in the media would foc1,1s a bit jawboned by presidents before, and scenic route to downtown South Redevelopment in South Bend.
The bikeway would have many more on some ofthe truly admirable we will be jawboned by presidents The bikeway would "hook up to
Bend. Thomas Burke, a Notre Dame positive aspects, including limited things being done by the American again, but it hasn't caused us to do M.B.A. student, made the proposal contact with dangerous traffic, no pathways along both sides of the people." anything different than what we recently to :-.tayor Roger Parent. sharp inclines and a scenic view canal and the river bank," Carey said. Before Reagan actually spoke. have to do, report the news. We will The cost is not yet certain. A
The proposed path would start at from the bluff overlooking the St. press secretary Larry Speakes said look at that week as we do all others, the southern edge ofthe Saint Mary's Joseph River. The bikeway, which similiar project completed in Illinois the president decided to delete the and report what we deem is news. campus where the rail line leaves cost s I O·I2,000 per mile for the
would be just over one mile in names of the anchormen in his In his speech. Reagan, who coin· the mainline. It would then extend length, would link up with paths conversion of the path, which in· delivery because "he did not think it plained publicly about the "network to Holy Cross Junior College and St. now under construction East
in 
See PATH, page 4
was appropriate." evening blues" last October, issued Joseph High School, the Michigan Bank Development Area, a formerly 
~-------------~----~--~-_.._........-----~---. -~ ---------~---­
INews Brie./§ 
Friday, March 4, 1983 -page 2 
By The ( )bsen•er and The Associated Press 
Monday is Mercy Day in the South Bend-Fort Wayne diocese. Father David Schlaver, director of Notrs: Dame Campus Ministry, described the day as "a special opportunity for Catholics to seek out reconciliation with the Church." Priests will be available for the Sacrament of Reconciliation Monday at 7 p.m. at Sacred Heart Church. Schlaver also noted that there will be a Penance Service on Tuesday, March 29. at 10 p.m. at Sacred Heart. ­
The Obsen,er 
Neither heroes nor clowns. is the topic of Father John Fitzgerald's talk Sunday night at H in the Library Auditorium. The Associate Director ofCampus Ministry will speak as part ofthe Sophomore Class's lecture series on relationships. -Tbe Obserr•er 
Trans-national drug firms and the depen­dency in the Third World will be discussed by Duke University assis­tant professor ofsociology Gary Gerefi Monday afternoon at 12:1 5 in the Library Lounge. Gerefi, author ofa soon-to-be-released book on the same subject, is a graduate ofNotre Dame an<,l received a Ph.D. in sociology from Yale University. The workshop is sponsored by the Kellogg :nstitute and the Department ofSociology. -The Observer 
Augusta Hall residents for the 1983-84 year who are interested in running for an elected position in the hall govern· ment should contact Monica Gugle at 5017 before Wednesday, March 9. The available positions are secretary, treasurer, social com­missioner and judicial commissioner. Elections for these offices will be March 24. ·The Observer 
Police found a fourth live bomb on the Las Vegas Strip yesterday and said they were facing a bomber who "probably has further intentions." The latest bomb was found in front of the Fas­hion Show Mall, a plush shopping center a block from where two bombs were found Monday. Members of the fire department bomb squad rushed to the scene to remove the device to a safe area. workers at the mall were evacuated from the sprawling facility and sections of the Las Vegas Strip and Spring Mountain Road, a major east-west artery, were cordoned off by police while the bomb was identified and removed. The mall is a block from the Desert Inn and Frontier hotels, where two dynamite bombs were found Monday. A third bomb was found later that day at the Stardust hotel. Police Commander Jerry Cunningham described the latest bomb as "an explosive device similar to the three found Monday." Cunningham said there had been no extortion demands made in connection with the latest bomb. He said the person planting the bombs "probably has further intentions, which he hasn't made known to us. We just don't know what we're dealing with." -AP 
President Reagan, underscoring his commitment to free trade, is calling on-American businesses to "outplan, out· produce, and outsell the pants off this nation's competitors." In remarks prepared for delivery to the Commonwealth Club today. Reagan asserted the international recession "is giving way to a rain· bow of recovery bearing a renaissance in enterprise. "America is on the mend," he said. The White House made exerpts from Reagan·~ prepared remarks available in advance. The president also told the 14,000-member public affairs forum that "there can be no security without a strong western economy and there can be no freedom unless we preserve the competitive and international financial sys­tem we created after World War II." For too long, the pre~ident said in hb luncheon address. "the government has treated the entrepreneurs more as an enemy than as an ally. Our administration has a better idea. We will give you less bureaucracy if you give America your audacity. "We want you to outplan. outproduet:, and outsell the pants off this nation's competitors.' Reagan said. Ad­ministration officials have said the l'.S. trade detlcit could real·h a record 575 billion this year. White House officials said the speech was designed to highlight Reagan's dedication to free trade and to point the way toward more open markets for I'.:->. producers and the 
nation's trading partners. -A.P 
At least seven southern Indiana jail inmates have com­mitted suicide or tried to since Jan. 8, but a jail physician say~ suicides are like other crimes, they can come in bunches for no ap­parent reason. "There are clusters, and the logical mind would say, 'Why do we suddenly have a bunch''" said Dr. Pete Evers, physician for the Vanderburgh CountyJail. "For years you won't have any (jail suicides) and now apparently there seems to be a lot. The pendulum swings back and forth." Evers said inmates mav trv to commit suicide because of another prisoner's attempt, simllar. to recent copycat crimes involving drug tampering. But. he said, jails have a smaller percentage ofsuicides than the general public because prisoners are monitored. But monitoring does not always work. Just last weekend, two inmates attempted to hang themselves with their pants in the new Knox CountyJail, Sheriff Fred Huffman said. -A.P 
Cloudy, breezy and warm todaywith a 5o 
percent chance of rain. High in the low to mid 60s. Cloudy and mild tonight with a 70 percent chance of rain tonight, low in the upper per 40s. Cloudy and mild tomorrow with a good chance ofrain. High in the upper 50s to low 60s. -AP 
The sidewalks poll and more 
Did you ever wonder why sidewalks at Notre Dame 
never go anywhere? 
John Cerabino, the freshman who performed the 
Andy Rooney imitation in the Keenan Revue, asked this 
question, and the audience roared with laughter. It sure 
seems true. Whenever I need to go anywhere, there's 
just never a sidewalk that is going in my direction. 
Most ofthe time, only a few extra steps will get me on the right path to my destination. bt: it O'Shaughnessy Hall or the library. But other time~. the need for a sidewalk seems so obvious that I wonder how the Main· tenance Department can be oblivious to -!-foot-wide pathways bored into the earth. 
Therefore. as a public service, your Obs• :•er News 
Department has conducted the first contprehensive 
Most Needed Sidewalks Poll. Months of intensive 
research has gone into this study. and balloting has just 
been completed. 
And now, drumroll please, the result~. The top five Most Needed Sidewalks are: 
• THE , LIBRARY-·· Goto. mi 1/lot'\O'SHAUGNESSY TRAIL ­This is easily the most-used off-road trail on campus. The ground is now so hard along 
this stretch that it doesn't even get muddy when it rains. Students, professors, priests, even visitors have been spotted using this trail, and traffic gets so heavy on it during class changes that students are lined up book· bag to bookbag between the two buildings. Whoever designed the sidewalk that is supposed to serve this area ran the pavement to the cor­ner of the library. Most people enter through the 
door, however. 
• 
THE LEWIS-NORTH QUAD TRAIL -Pity poor Lewis hall. There are no sidewalks heading east from this hall, even though most Lewisites eat at the North Dining Hall. So in the tradition of Manifest Destiny, these lady pioneers blazed their own trail, and the thing is now so wide that the Michiana Regional Airport has classified it an alternative landing site for DC-9's. 

• 
THE ACC-CAMPUS TRAIL -This has got to be the strangest trail. A diagonal path approaches the quad south of the library from both directions, but it seems that no one bothered to extend it across the quad itself. A missing link, ofsorts. 


· • THE LIBRARY-STEPAN CHEMISTRY TRAIL ­Again, the same problem as the 1 trail (above). No one wants to go to the corner of the library. This trail is not as heavily travelled as the O'Shag trail. But those science majors must tread quite heavily, for puddles a few inches deep dot the pathway after a rainshower. 
Mark Worscheh 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Friday 

• THE STANFORD/KEENAN-AD. BLDG. TRAIL ­Ordinarily lhis trail would not classifv a.s a "Most Needed" sidewalk. but its intersection ~ith the Lewis trail in front of the lnfirmarv has created a muddv quagmire that only the daring will try to cross after ~ rain. Why go across Juniper to have the An Tostal mud pit? The perfect location is this beautiful black spot. 
So there you have it. Hut keep in mind that this list will be updated, so send your suggestions to me in care of this office. 
As a continuation of this exercise. I also have a few other suggestions which might make life a little better around here, and with these, a few observations. 
I have the ultimate solu­tion to the Student Center question. The students want a new center, but the word is that Hesburgh wants to be able to look at a park and the library from his 3rd floor office. The solution: Build a two-story student center where the Fieldhouse is now, and cover the top with --Astroturf. Imagine the pos­sibilities: putt-putt, sun ~"b---deck, and more. Everybody 
ends up happy. 
How many times have you read the phrase "For your convenience, we have installed ..."Right, it's that little plaque on the hand dryers in the bathrooms. Frankly, there is nothing else to do while drying your hands, so it would be the ideal place for student government to post information. It also has a little more class than put· ting up signs in the stalls, as has been done before. 
By the way, does anyone have a name for the new quad south of the library? North, South, Tower and God's Quad are taken, so send in your ideas tor this new entrant intu the quad tradition. 
And finally, the Board of Trustees no doubt had to approve the changeover from silver posts to wooden ones, and these now protect the lawn around St. Ed's. Is there no respect for tradition left? 
The l'l·ews e.\pressed in the Inside column are the z•iews of their author and do not necessaril)' express the l'iews ofThe Observer or its editorial Br~ard. 

The Observer 
/)esiRII Editor. .. lkirdr~ Murphy f)esiRn Assi:tlant ... .. Dave.: 'HAmin~o Bound' Rohin~on 
Trpe.«•llers ..... . ...... -.. Reggie H\l:'ll-wv~ mt• a drink ,'\/eu.•s Editor . \ k 'The: kid i!'t nol m~ ~on' 
Sciulli 
Copy Editor.. .... Carol Camp f'eature.'i l.t~l·out ... .....Joe :v1usemki Editorttl/$ l.a)•ou(.. ...Tari Brown Sports Co{ll' Editor.. ........ \bkc.: }{iccanll .\'0 /Jar Editor...... .... Tim Pcttcr!'l .\J.JC /Jur Editor.... .. . .. Bruce who' 7)•pi.•.-ts ... ..... Monica (,u~k Photograpb(•r .. .. L;trry Petra!<o 
Ciuest Appearances ...... 1\'t~t'dh..·,, and hi~ 
Tankarth. ~tormy thl· llooligan, Fbh 
There once u)as a man nanied OeclifJus 
Rex. 
rou 11Uil' bttl1(' beard ahoul his odd nJmfJle.,· /lis IUUJU! appean•d in Freud's uule.\· Caus(• he /ol't>tl his mother .. 
Be sweet caul kind to mother. nou· untl then hal'e a chat Bring her ca,.ull' ur }lowers or a IJrund­neu·hat But maybe 1•ou had bette~· let it go at 
tbat 
Or you may end up with a quite com. /Jiex compte....:-. You muy end up /ike Oedipus Rex 
The Observer 1USPS 598 9<!01 1s published Monday through Fnday and on home football Saturdays except dunng exam and vacat1on per1ods The Observer 15 publiShed by the sludents of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Marys Cot lege Subscr1pt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year 1S15 per seme!'.ler) by wntmg The Observer P 0 Box 0 Notre Dame lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer IS a member of The Associated Press Alt reproductton nghts are reserved 
Second class post-Bge pa1d at Notre 
Dame lnd1ana 46556 

The Observer Friday, March 4, 1983 -page 3 
Econo~nic iinbalance causes hunger problem 
By HELEN LUCAITIS 
News Staff 
The world's hunger problem is a result of the imbalance of the world's economy and not because of the lack of food, says a Catholic nun who lectured last evening in Carroll Hall. 
Sister Marie Augusta Neal, S.N.D., a professor oftheology at Emmanuel College in Boston, believes that there are many people simply do not have the money to buy food, al­though supplies are plentiful. She believes that past attempts to solve the world hunger problem have been two-fold; first, to kill people, and second, to reduce the food supply. The rationale given for this theory is that there is no technical solution to the shortage of food and other resources, and that people fear not having enough food. 
Neal feels that this is not the cor­rect approach to the problem, however. She said that as Christians, we are responsible for feeding those people who desperately need food. Additionally, she claims that if giving 

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) Thousands ofprotesters gathered in Golden Gate Park waving anti­British signs and a 10-foot effigy of President Reagan before a gala state dinner in honor of Queen Elizabeth II last night. 
Aragged half-mile-long column of demonstrators, waving Irish flags and signs protesting Britain's presence in Northern Ireland and emblazoned with such mottos as "Reagan Steals From The Poor and Gives To The Rich," paraded near clothing, food, and shelter to the poor constitutes repentance, then depriving people of these items is sinful; therefore, Neal believes that following the Gospel is the solution to the hunger problem. 


Neal is the author oftwo books,"A Sociotheology of Letting Go" and "Values and Interests in Social Change." Last night's lecture was the third in the "Christians and Justice" series which is being sponsored by the College. 
Prof. Estroff talks about mentally ill. 
"Making it Crazy: Sociocultural Factors in De-institutionalization of the Mentally Ill" will be the subject of a public lecture this Monday by Prof Sue E. Estroff, Ph.D from the School of Medicine at the University of North Carolina. The lecture will 
Popejohn Paul II rides inside the popemobile jose, Costa Rica Wednesday. See related story on
begin at 4:00 in the Hayes/Healy 
along the motorcade route into downtown San page 4. (AP Photo) · .
Auditorium. 
San Francisco 
Anti-British protestors criticize Queen, Reagan 
the M.H. de Young Memorial Museum where the dinner was to be held. 
More than 200 guests were invited to the formal state dinner. The museum was refurbished at a cost of S3S,OOO for the event. 
Two huge effigies of the presi­dent, one of them wheeled in a su­permarket shopping cart, towered above the crowd, which espoused more than a dozen causes by groups as diverse as communists and the Grey Panthers, a senior citizens or­ganization. 
Hundreds of riot-clad police watched the crowd, pointing it toward the athletic field called Big Rec, a few blocks from the museum. The field is out of sight and hearing of the museum. 
Earlier the queen, after suffering through violent storms and rowdy protesters on her tour of California, got a taste of the City by the Bay from "high camp" to "high tech," being entertained by the cast of a 
Name 
zany revue before a quick trip to the electronics-industry in "Silicon Val­ley." 
First lady Nancy Reagan, who flew to San Francisco with the royal party Wednesday night, stayed behind while the queen was driven to the city's S38.5 million Louise M. Davis Symphony Hall for a program that in­cluded entertainers Tony Bennett and Mary Martin. 
Outside the glistening white and glass structure, a crowd of about 400, some eager for a glimpse of the queen and others there to protest, greeted the queen's motorcade. 
A large banner emblazoned with the legend, "We love Queen Elizabeth," competed with another that read "Free Ireland." Flags of the United States and Great Britain waved in the brisk breeze. · 
The performance, highlighted by Bennett singing "I Left My Heart In San Francisco," · was interrupted when a man identified. by deputy mayor Hadley Roh as Seamus Gib­ney, an Irish protester, stood and shouted three times, "Stop The Torture." 
Gibney was removed from the auditorium by plainclothes officers, questioned and released. The queen glanced at the disturbance, but her expression did not change and she immediately looked away. 
The queen appeared amused at most of the entertainment, smiling as performers from Beach Blanket Babylon, a popular local revue, paraded across the stage in huge hats decorated with miniature buildings. About 3,000 guests were invited. 
After the 25-minute musical in­terlude, the queen received the key to the city from Mayor Dianne Feinstein, then resumed her jour­ney, heading south into Silicon Val­· ley, named for its computer chip industry, for lunch at Stanford Uni­versity with its president, Donald 
Kennedy and 90 guests, and a visit to 
the high-tech Hewlett-Packard Co. 
Age---­

Address -------------------------------­City State Zip 
The Observer Friday, March 4, 1983 -page 4 
In Costa Rica 
Pope prays, seeks end to hostilities 

Britain's Princess Diana glances up at a balloon during a visit Wednesday to Aylesbury•, England. The princess was there to open a new shopping center. ( AP Photo) 
I 
drive that some critics think has officials. pension plan. boomeranged. Although it would not save the Several thou!'>and mail carrier!'> The unions have made some head­government any money overall, the trooped through the halls of
N.D. Student Union Presents: 
I 
way in opposing a separate Reagan switch would bring $9.3 billion into Congress thb week, button-holing administration plan to make drastic Social Security's ailing old age trust lawmakers. Current and retired
Tickets available changes in the civil service retire­fund through 1989. federal workers have also turned out 
ment system, which the administra­The $165 billion package would in force at meetings. tion says cannot meet the cost of curb so-called windfall benefits for "I think they've hurt their own promised benet1ts amounting to career civil servants who also qualify cause," said Rep. William M. mure than a halt~ trillion dollars. for Social Security on the side, but it Thomas, R-Cali., a Republican mem­
The House Post Oft1ce and Civil makes no other direct changes in ber of Ways and Means. 
But union leaders defend the lobbying blitz and deny that it has hurt their image. 
Moe Biller. president of the 320,000-member American Postal
Ihe_Obsei'Ne~ 
Workers Union, said the lawmakers 
"are unhappy about grassroots 
lobbying, which is the basis and pil­
is accepting applications 
lar ofa democracy."
Saturday, March 5 
Biller, who said his union ha!'>
for two News Editor positions 
spent upwards of S2 million in its campaign against Social Security
Bus leaves library circle at 
coverage, said Congress may be able "to make chopped liver out ofus" on
Applications due 5 p.m., Monday, March 7 
12 noon returns after 
the issue. 
But he said, "We're not burning 
our bridges, either ...We are in the 
forefront of the American labor 
show. 


~ 
CORBY'S 
Fri &Sat Happy Hour -3·8 PM-
Heineken Pitchers $3.50 Old Milwaukee Pitchers $2.50 
SAN JOSE, Costa Rica (AP) ­Pope John Paul II made a whirlwind start on his Central American tour yesterday, praying for peace before one million people, telling nuns to stay out of politics and calling on young people to forge an end to the region's bloody political warfare. 
He also visited a hospital for retarded and seriously injured children and gave a boost to the In­ternational Court of Human Rights. 
Looking unaffected by jet lag, the white-clad pope on the first full day of his eight-day, eight country visit praised democratic revolution-free Costa Rica as a shining example of harmony in this turbulent part ofthe world. 
"I know the climate of work and peace which distinguishes you, beloved children of Costa Rica," the pope said in Spanish as he celebrated Mass in La Sabana Park for a million people, many of whom spent the night there waiting for him. 
He exhorted the Costa Ricans to remember those less fortunate, to "work for peace and fight for the elimination of injustice. You must overcome hate and violence, promote the dignity of man and feel responsible for the poor and the oppressed, refugees and displaced people." 
He also reminded them of their church's ban on artificial methods of birth control and abortion, both widely tolerated in liberal Costa Rica. 
"You must have absolute respect for life from conception and reject abortion as a crime," he declared. 
Six hours before he spoke, the Guatemalan government executed six convicted terrorists despite a clemency plea from the pope a month ago. President Efrain Rios Montt, a born-again evangelical Christian who will meet the pope on Sunday, refused to commute the sentences. 
The archbishop of San Jose, the Most Rev. Ramon Arieta, told the press the pope was moved by the peaceful crowds who showered his car with flowers. 
"In other parts ofCentral America 
it rains bullets," said Arrieta. "Here it 
rains flowers." 
John Paul scheduled a meeting in the afternoon with the country's priests and nuns in the !55-year-old Metropolitan Cathedral. Directing his speech to the nuns, he told them they are gaining importance "at a moment in history in which women are acquiring positions ofdignifying improvement." 
But he warned them, in line with the Vatican's opposition to direct political action by the clergy, "Do not let yourselves be fooled by par­tisan ideologies. Do not succumb to the temptation ofoptions which one day will ask you to pay the price of your own freedom." 
In Nicaragua, where the pope goes Friday, five Catholic priests hold high office in the revolutionary government and have rejected the Vatican's orders to quit their posts. In El Salvador, which he visits Sun­day, priests and nuns have helped or­ganize the peasants against the conservative, land-owning oligarchy with which the church is traditional­ly allied. 
Social security reform 
Civil service reforms rejected 
WASHINGTON ( AP) -With the Service Committee has rejected their current pension system. Social Security rescue plan sailing President Reagan's civil service The full House will take up the So­through Congress, federal workers' reforms and his call for a one-year cial Security bill on Wednesday and unions appear headed for a bitter freeze on workers' pay and retirees· passage by a lopsided margin is vir­defeat in their tight to keep future benetlts. tually certain. civil servants from being forced to But the bipartisan Social Security The unions, in ads that trumpet 
join the system. rescue bill, which was approved by the line that "You can't cure Social 
In a capital accustomed to politi­the House Ways and Means Commit­Security by making civil service cal-arm-twisting, the federal and tee 32-3 on Wednesday, would force retirement stick," claim that the postal workers unions have all new federal workers hired as of switch to Social Security for new mounted a loud, costly lobbying Jan. 1, 1984, into appointed federal hires would bankrupt their own 
'\lUkE (A11[ \.-j.'\1' ·1Wk1'\. movement in trying to keep the gains made over the years."
C{)ltvHIJNIICAilii{)N l ~_...__f;llrlldlll~IC 
r lfll2111[)A\~ lfiiiL~\ ~1(1[2111(~ 
March 4 
• • . Path
Circle of Deceit 119821 Volker Schlondvrlf, Germany, 108 m1n German w1th Engl1sh subtitles Set m the rubble ol c1v11 war-torn Be~rut, Dece11 IS a compell1ng and thOughtlul v1S1on ol the traged1es ol war Bruno Ganz plays a JOurnaliSt 
continuedfrom page I 
whose da~ed eyes m1rror the confus1on of a war 1n wh1ch everyone 15 a 
eluded both the posting of road 
Annenberg Aud.,SniteMuseum Admission 
signs and asphalt. The actual acquisi­tion cost of the land that the path is 
... ~r t() ~ 11 tl71tllr--s-2.00 
located on is unknown. Carey said that Conrail has ear­
a a 1 
marked an undisclosed amount of money for purchasing the land. "The 
41
'• KOINONIA • 
reason I can't give a tlgure is that we 

are in negotiations. It should be a
RETREAT 
reasonable sum," he added.
Fri & Sat Nite 
"The Common Search for God" 
The only major objection raised 
Mar. 25-27 (Fri.-Sun.) 
thus far concerns the maintenance
9·12 pm 
of the bridge over which the bikeway would travel. "I don't feel it 
at 
FATIMA RETREAT CENTER 
Michelob .99¢ 
is a viable objection" explained
For info call campus rep: Mike Connors, C.S.C. 
Burke. "If it can hold a 40 ton
Happy Hours Sponsored Moreau 219-239-7735 
locomotive, I see no problem for a 40 pound bike." 
by the women of 
Saint Mary's 
c ~
a a
• 
The Observer Friday, March 4, 1983-page 5 
Rolling Stones death contract revealed 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Hell's An­gels have an "open contract" against .\!lick Jagger and the Rollings Srones and havt:" tried at least twice to kill the British rock group, a former member of the outlaw motorcycle gang said yesterdav. 
.\ witness identified onlv as "Butch" told the Senate Judiciarv Committee that the vendetta dates hack to the slaying of a spectator at the Stones· concert in Altamont, Calif. in I969 that was captured in the film of the concert called 
Gimme Shelter. 
Authorities at the time said the gun-toting spectator was stabbed to death in a scuffle with Hell's Angels hired to provide security at the con­cert, attended hy 300,000 people. 
"Butch," whose real name was not revealed under the federal witness protection program, said the Angels were still angry because they feel the Rolling Stones "did not back them" in the subsequent furor and prosecution ofa gang member. 
"There's always been an open contract on the band," said "Butch," a convicted murderer who testified from behind a screen. 
"There's been two attempts to kill them that I know about," he said. "They will someday .....They swear they will still do it." 
He said the first attempt occurred in the mid-1970s at a location he did not identify. 
"They sent a member with a gun and a silencer" to a hotel where the Angels believed the Stones were staying, the witness said. "He stalked them, but they never showed up." 
"Butch" said that around 1979, members of the Angels' New York City chapter planned an assault by boat against a house at which the Stones were staying. 
"They were going to put a bomb in the house and blow everybody up and kill everybody at the party," he said. The plot died in mid-stream, however, when the Angels, moving in on a rubber raft, lost their plastic explosives overboard, according to the witness. 
"Butch" said that killing the rock band is an obsession with the Angels, who are believed by law enforce­ment officials to have between 500­600 hard-core members in 33 chapters in the United States and 18 

'Like other crimes' 
Suicide rising for Indiana jail inmates 
in other countries. 
"This has been discussed many times -killing the band," he said. "Anyone doing this would get in good grace with the California An­gels." The gang is headquartered in Oakland, Calif. 
A member of the Angels, Alan David Passaro. was acquitted of mur­der charges in the stabbing of :\1eredith Hunter. 1H. Defense attor­neys successfully argued that while Passaro had stabbed Hunter twice. he did not intlict the fatal wound. 
· :'-Jews accounts in 1969 said that members of the Angels' Oakland chapter were given money and all the beer they could drink to serve as bodvguards at the concert. 
TheJudiciary Committee was told that "Butch" is a 43-year-old former leader of the Angels' chapter in Cleveland.· He said he is now in prison for a 1974 slaying he ad­mitted after quitting the gang and becoming a federal protected wit­ness in 198I. 
A ci~y bus makes waves as it plows through floodwaters in Sunland, Calif, after a storm hit 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. (AP)-At least Knox County Jail, Sheriff Fred Huf­seven southern Indiana jail inmates 
fman said. have committed suicide or tried to And Monday, southern Indiana's since Jan. 8, but a jail physician says latest jail suicide occurred in the 
suicides are like other crimes, they Vanderburgh County Jail, when 19­can come in bunches for no ap­year-old Clifford E. Money hanged parent reason. 
himself. "There are clusters, and the logi­
"The fact you get them in bunches cal mind would say, "Why do we 
is one of those things that happens," suddenly have a bunch?" said Dr. 
says Dennis Wiechman, a University Pete Evers, physician for the Vander­
of Evansville criminal justice profes­sor who has interviewed inmates
burgh "~ounty Jail. "For years you won't nave any (jail suicides) and 
who have attempted suicide. "The general public says there's
now apparently there seems to be a no reason for them ever to kill them-_
lot. Evers said inmates may try to selves," said Dennis Wiechman, a commit suicide because of another University of Evansville criminal prisoner's attempt, similar to recent justice professor who has inter­copycat crimes involving drug viewed inmates who attempted tampering. suicide. "But you can't monitor But, he said, jails have a smaller them 24 hours a day." percentage of suicides than the Inmates who commit suicide fre­general public because prisoners are quently do so because of the embar· monitored. rassment and humiliation they feel But monitoring does not always after being arrested, Wiechman said, work. Just last weekend, two adding that suicide is also more like­inmates attempted to hang ·them­ly in a county jail than a pdson. selves with their pants in the new People who have reached a state 
Ninety fish samples 
Dioxin found in Michigan rivers 
EAST LANSING. Mich. ( AP) ­Fish in 10 Michigan rivers are con­taminated with dioxin, and similar pollution may exist in the water­ways of other heavily industrialized areas around the nation, researchers reported yesterday. 
Dioxin, one of the most toxic sub­stances known to man, was the chemical that last month spurred a federal offer to buy out the com­munity of Times Beach, Mo., where the material had been sprayed on lo­cal streets. 
"There is no reason to believe \iichigan is unique," said Matthew Zabik, associate director of Michi­gan State Cniversity's Pesticide Research Center, where the study was conducted. 
He said dioxin might be present in soil near industrial areas, too, al­though "it would he harder to detect" 
Dr. Harold Humphrey of the state health department's Division of En­vironmental Epidemiology, said preliminary data "would indicate that if testing were done anywhere 
State officials will study the MSU findings and consider tightening fishing warnings. 
Zabik and Swiatoslav Kaczmar, a graduate student in envrionmental toxicology who did the research, said Michigan residents should not worry about the levels of dioxin found in the fish. 
"We don't have any fear at the levels we're finding," Zabik said. There's no reason not to eat these fish." 
But, he said, "it's more widespread than we originally thought." 
Zabik said the specific dioxin detected was 2.3, 7,8-TCDD, the most toxic of the II I varities of the chemical. 
Dioxin is a suspected cause ofcan­cer and a deadly poison in small doses to animals, although its effec.t on humans is still uncertain. 
The poison is likely present in the rivers if! a lower level than in the fish, where It tends to concentrate. Zahik sa1d. 
Dioxin was found in the St. 
tested for. Other stretches of the same rivet r may show no contamina­tion, while other rivers which ap­peared clean could have dioxin as yet undiscovered. 
Rivers in the northern part of the state appeared to be clean, he said. 
The study found dioxin levels ran­ging from 1 7 parts per trillion to 586 parts per trillion in 90 fish samples from the rivers over the past two years. The average was about 200 parts per trillion, and half of the fish samples showed no dioxin, Zabik said. 
The dioxin levels found in Michi­gan carp and sucker were "about a 1,000 times less" than that found in the soil ofTimes Beach. 
Riskplays at Stepan 
tommorrow 
penitentiary usually have adjusted to their incarceration. 
Some key moments when an inmate may attempt to kill himself are early in his incarceration, during his trial and after a conviction but before being sent to a penitentiary, he said. 
"How would you feel to have the prospect of 10 years in prison?" 
Wiechman  asked.  "It  gets  very  
depressing."  
Wiechman  does  not  think  an  

inmate would be prompted to com­
mit suicide because he heard or read about an attempt in another jail. 
"Although some crime is at­tributed to influences such as televi­sion," Wiechman said, "I don't think suicide is that type of thing." 
The suicides cycle began Jan. 8 when 25-year-old Billy Robb hanged himself from a light fixture in the Posey CountyJail. 
Then on Feb. 5, Paul Walker, 50, cut his throat with a razor. Posey County Sheriff Carl Dick said the incident was an attempted suicide and said Walker required 50 stitches at Welborn Hospital. 
On Feb. 3, Chad Sharp, 15, of Il­linois hanged himself in his cell at the Daviess County Jail. That was followed by the suicide ofStanley L. Turpin, 26. of Odon, in the Daviess CountyJail on Feb. 22. 
Restaurant and lounge  
Open Sunday to serve your  
favorite cocktails with live  
s t  0 n  entertainment and dancing starting at 8 PM Sunday  
m  w*0 o  1516 N. Ironwood just east of campus  Mon-Sat 11am-1am Sun 4pm-12:30am 

....~~-~~d 
Edison 
Your Host: Ron DeLaere, N.D. '64 
~~~~--04..~..HH..H.~·~--~..~..HM..~... 

Haircut only $6 with coupon 
(Hair must be washed day of cut) 
272·0312 277-1691 
($6 offer only applies to male patrons) 
Come hear some of the BEST sounds around at: 
THENAZZ Musical Competition 
.. 
Friday, March 4 
in the industrialized areas of the Joseph, Kalamazoo, :\1uskegon. Saturday March.s 8:00PM Grand, Huron, St. Clair, Chippewa,
Cnited States you could possibly Due to the cancellation of the find the same kind of thing." 
Pine, Tittihawas~ee and Saginaw Freshman Formal, the Chicago­rivers, according to Zabik.
"It provides information we didn't based band Risk will he playing in have before," he said. "This is the He cautioned that dioxin was Stepan Center tomorrow night from INTHENAZZ! found in only some tish, at specit1c 7-1 I:30 p.m. The concert is free and Come & Enjoy NO's Finest Musical Talent 
most widespread sampling that has heen done.·· .places in the river and at the level open to all students. 
The Observer Friday, March 4, 1983 -page 6 

Ions ofoilspilledfrom the island as a result ofthe storm. The slick dissipated rapid~y in churning seas, minimizing the threat of shoreline pollu­tion. ( AP Photo) 
BOSTON (AP)-New England's financial hub was virtually paralyzed for a second straight day yesterday because a flash .tire in a manhole snapped offelectricity to downtown Boston's high-rise banks and businesses. 
Thousands of workers at brokerage houses, mutual funds, law firms and banks, including the Federal Reserve Bank's regional headquarters, were given the day off. 
Meanwhile, I00 utility workers stretched power cables above ground around the ruined manhole yesterday, trying to restore the power that was cut off Wednesday afternoon when the underground fire near Post Office Square cut seven power cables. 
Yesterday morning, knots ofoffice workers stood forlornly outside the locked doors of the financial dis­trict's office buildings, hoping 
Eight fires 
Volunteer firemen tried for arson, shock town 
DICKSON CITY, Pa. (AP)-A dress factory was damaged. A lumberyard and a department store were burned. Vacant houses were torched. 
Authorities say the men who set some of the fires went back to fight the flames. Eight volunteer firefighters, including the fire chief and captain of Eagle Volunteer Hose Company No. 1, have been arrested in connection with eight ofthe 59 fires that have plagued this small, northeastern Pennsyl­vania community since 1977. 
Eight others volunteers, ranging in age from 15 to 17, were charged with summary offenses for allegedly setting minor fires and face juvenile proceed­ings, said state police Lt. MichaelJordan. 
Jordan said "a code of silence" within the fire department stopped firefighters from telling authorities about the alleged arsons. 

FRIDAY ii 
"The majority were what we class­ify as thrill and excitement. They were set for the fun of it," said state police 
IJJM:i-FOcus 
fire marshal Walter Mochowsky. 
"You get an individual who joins a fire department to fight fires and isn't content unless he does," he said. "They'd get to drinking and decide they haven't had a fire for a while, so they'd set one. 

The Best in Aged Steaks 
120 N. Main Street Downtown, Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch 11:00 A.M. to 2:00P.M. Dinner 5:00P.M. & Hoi 
Exciting Things Are Happening at 
Daniel's Den Lounge Ramada Inn Mon.· South Bend rues­Dollar Drink Nite 
Draft Beer. .75$ 
Bar Liquor, Canned Beer 
$3.00 a 
Wed.· Ladies Nite · %price drinks, and for everyone, all canned beer & bar liquor $1.00 
Thurs.· Mens Nite · 1f2 price drinks. Mexican Border Nite ·Tequila shots: .75¢; Tequila Sunrises and Margaritas: $1.25 
Fri.· Smoking Blue Devil Dr inks -offered on Fridays only· 
Sun.· Now open 8 pm-Midnight Featuring Live Country Entertainment with the sensational "Whiskey River Band" 
The Best Live Entertainment in Michiana Feb 21 · March 5: "Phoenix" March 7 ·March 19: "High Tide" March 21 · 26: "Fabulous Sleepy Marlin" 
"The unique thing about this situation was the number of firemen in­volved," said Mochowsky, whose investigation into other fires;including the torching of the local high school and the borough building, is continuing. More arrests are expected. 
The first arrests on Feb. 3 shocked many ofthe town's 6,700 residents. 
"It's been a tragic situation," said Mayor Vincent Wiercinski."We're just going to have to pull ourselves together again. We've got a good community and we're going to stay that way. We'll survive this." 
In Pennsylvania there are no statistics on the number of volunteer firefighters who are arrested for starting fires. State police logs, for example, do not list volunteer firefighters as an occupation. 
But according to state police figures, 50 percent of those arrested for arson in Pennsylvania are under 18 and 74 percent are under 25. Many volunteer firemen come from that age bracket, said Ernie Rojahn, spokes­man for the Pennsylvania Firemen's Association. 
"There is a definite correlation between the age group of people who come into the fire service and the age group that experiments with arson," said Rojahn. 
"When 60 percent ofyour membership is young adults, and 74 percent of the arson arrests in Pennsylvania are those same young adults, we're bound to get some ofthem." 
The Dickson City arrests involve a 1978 fire at a dress factory that caused ll300,000 damage, two fires at the C&S Wood Products lumberyard and several vacant homes. Police say flares taken from fire trucks were used to start some of the fires. 
A number ofthe fires also included brush fires and garbage bins. 
One firefighter, 19-year-old Robert Lark, has already pleaded guilty to six counts each of criminal mischief and conspiracy. He was sentenced to two years' probation, fined $400 and has agreed to testify for the prosecution. 
In a statement filed with authorities, Lark told police he had been drinking witn fellow firefighter John Knutelski, 19, at a party on Sept. 11, 1981. 
The two returned to finish offtwobeers on the railroad tracks behind the firehouse when Knutelski, who faces arson charges, reportedly told Lark, "Tonight would be a good night for a fire. Let's do C&S's Dumpster." 
The lumberyard burned that night, and police say firefighters used a water hose to erase footprints they found at the site. 
In another incident, tlrefighter Anthony Drozdis, 22, said he had been drinking with Capt. Edward Filipski, 23, on July 26, 1980. In a sworn state­ment, Drozdis said he mentioned a vacant house near his home. 
After leaving the bar, Drozdis said Filipski told him, "You stay here. I'm going to light up or torch that house." Drozdis, charged with one count of criminal conspiracy, said he later saw the house burning. Filipski is charged with arson and related offenses. 
r-:r;G~t;t::io:;.~.s;s~~;.~.;:;"'je"ft:r;~Air;i:,;, 
Santana ... Hot Tuna ... Quicksilver ... Messenger Service ........... The New Riders of the Purple Sage .......... . 
IN 

in the Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom Tuesday, March 8th at 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 
"The Rock Film 
~~ 
ofthe Century" 
-Dave R. 
•a 
Francesco's Italian Dining 
Original Southern Italian Home Cooking 'Everything is a' homemade' 
* 
Specralmng rn:
1 ~. 
r 1636 N. Ironwood
C. 
And avarrety otSpaghe/lr a Ia
0 Ph. 277·6155 
pasta andCarbonara sandwrches.
"'"'!!1!1"-...~ ·6566 Me/anzanr· sluffedEdison 
Also featuring egg plan/
0 
Deliveries Available 
Francesco's Four 
d 
Bracrolr alia 
toND&SMC 
Calabrese· Season Pizza BEER AND WINE stuffed beet roll 10% discount on dinners and any Francesco IS a fr;rrrP.r chef of the Holy Cross large pizzas with coupon Farh''':.. rorover21 years to NO & SMC students 
Blackout paralyzes financial district 
someone would let them in, mused Bob Conger, an actuary for the Mass­achusetts Auto Rating and Accident Prevention Bureau. 
At the twin 41-story apartment buildings of Harbor Towers, manager Paul Morin shook his head and shrugged when a tenant on the 22nd floor pleaded for someone to walk her dog. 
"I'll pay," she promised. 
The blacked out area covered several dozen blocks from South Sta­tion to the waterfront of the North End. In all, 6,500 Boston Edison cus­tomers lost power. and officials said 4,000 of them were large commer­
cial businesses. The cause of the manhole fire had not been determined yesterday. 
Police assigned 30 extra patrol­men to the darkened neighborhoods Wednesday night. No looting or 
other  special  problems  were  
reported.  
At  the  Meridien  Hotel,  guests  

breakfasted yesterday on cold crois­sants, fruit and cereal. 
"There's no hot water. And with a cold shower this morning, some people were very upset. They seemed to blame me personally," said Room Clerk John Lychak. The hotel took 25 percent offthe nightly $110 room rate. 
At the Marriott Long Wharf Hotel, employees handed out 400 flash­lights to guests. 
Routine work stopped at many big businesses. The First National Bank of Boston sent home 3,500 employees, the State Street Bank and Trust Co. dismissed 1,100, and the Fidelity Group, a tlnancial service company, gave 600 the day off. These and some other businesses continued essential chores using emergency generators and skeleton staff. 
Also blacked out were South Sta­tion, the terminal for commuter trains to Boston's southern suburbs and Amtrak passenger service, the New England Aquarium, the federal courthouse and the Quincy Market complex ofshops and restaurants. 
Lavaflow destroys I 
I
two homes 
KALAPANA, Hawaii (AP) -A "hot mountain" oflava from Kilauea 
I 
Volcano crept toward the sea yester­day after burying two homes and threatening others in a heavily forested area ofHawaii Island dotted with 50 homes. 
The lava flow, now five miles long, 30 feet high and 500 feet wide, en­veloped a frame house late Wednes­day after suddenly picking up speed, said David Ames, superintendent of the adjoining Hawaii Volcanoes Na­tional Park. 
A second home was destroyed yesterday morning, according to Hawaii County Civil Defense Ad­ministrator Harry Kim. All residents were cleaed from the Royal Gardens subdivision Wednesday, and no in­juries were reported. 
"We are in a very. critical situation at this point," said Kim. "The flow is spreading and the speed of the flow is fluctuating greatly." 
Kim offered assistance to sub­divisinresidents in retrieving property from their homes. However, he said furniture and large appliances could not be moved. 
"The lava wall was inching down 
I the street and all of a sudden it I picked up speed and moved along like a hot mountain," Ames said in describing the destruction of the first home. "As many as eight or nine houses are threatened, depending on how the tlow goes," said Ames. 
..,.
Editorials 
Friday, March 4, 1983-page 
A very dignified funeral 
Last Saturday night 3,087 people in the North Dome of the ACC were treat~d to one of the most dignified funerals I've ever seen. (I've spent the last two summers as a gravedig­ger, so believe me I've seen a lot of them.) In case you haven't figured it out by now, I'm speakng of the last home hockey game. The team went out in style, partly because of their 8-1 victory over Illinois-Chicago, but mostly because of the character of the team and its members. 
RandyFahs 
Friday Analysis 
Originally I had planned to dip my pen in acid and turn this editorial into a bitter description of how the administration had broken the legs of the hockey program and then sent it adrift so that its termination would look like a mercy killing. Unfortunately, it is difficult to investigate the reasons behind any­thing the University does; besides, it is a little too late for anything to happen. It suffices to 
The deadline for admission to the Univer­sity and consideration for financial aid has al­ready passed. Anyone still desiring on-campus housing should return their check and com­puter card. by today. Remember -your income tax form is due April I 5. Anyone desir­ing summer internships or jobs should submit 
Keith Picher 
Short of Profundity 
applications immediately. All those interested in serving as heads ofcommissions or desiring part-time employment should obtain an ap­plication and ... 
Applications haunt nearly every aspect of our lives. Once upon a time applications were primarily reserved for job seekers. Today one can hardly have a party, volunteer time, or go to the bathroom without first filing a magical 
say that it appears to be a deliberate action on 
-the part of the highest level University autocrats. I do have one question to ask Father joyce: If your main reason for killing the program was to cut expenses, then why is next year's budget for the club level hockey team identical to the present budget for this y"ear's uarsi~y hockey team, except for scholarships' I have a hunch that we'll see the reason for the ending of the hockey program when we see where these same scholarships surface next year. 
As for the funeral itself, it was sad and sen­timental like it would be for any death, but this one also had a good measure of pride in it. An era came to an end at Notre Dame and many turned out to see the final curtain fall. The team showed the competitive spirit, unity, and class that are Notre Dame ideals and one of the University's traditions of excellence. Before the final game of the season, the players rolled out a red carpet on the ice (as they do every season) for their parents. It was a bittersweet moment when the band followed with the alma mater. It is ironic that the hockey players continued to embody the traits of loyalty and fairness that the ad­ministration seemed to have closed· its eyes on. It was one of the few moments when I wasn't proud to be a· member of the llniver­sity. 
When the game ended, the players from both sides shook hands (as is customary in hockey) and then the Notre Dame players skated around the ice for the last time as the band played Taps. It was a sign ofcamaraderie with each other, thanks to their parents and othersupporters, and unity that even the most adverse times could not extinguish. We all clapped and said goodbye. During the walk home after the game, I felt as if I had just buried a close friend. 
This weekend the team enters the playoffs against Bowling Green, the first-placed team in the league and one ofthe top college teams in the nation. It will be another uphill battle for the Irish Another uphill icers, but win or lose, you can bet that the 1982-83 Notre Dame Hockey Team, the last Division I Notre Dame Hockey Team, will give it everything they have. 
This editorial has become a bit of a eulogy, 
• so I feel I must pay my final respects: To Coach Leftv Smith: You may not be Herb 
Applying yourself 
application. 
While some people might be able to in­clude all relevant information about their per­sonality, character, and experience in a half page summary, others cannot. Applications all too often are either ignored (in which case, why do we bother to fill them out?) or taken too seriously (in which case they are incom­plete and inaccurate.) In filling out any ap­plication you should always be guided by a few simple rules: 
I. Don't quibble over the truth or other such hindrances. Little white lies (or gargantuan ones) might mean the difference between ac­ceptance and rejection. I once caught a class­mate in high school who listed activities such as chess team, Latin Club, and golfteam on his resume. While our school had a chess team, it was cut from the budget one year before he was a freshman. His other qualificatioAs were equally impressive. 
2. Be sure you understand the purpose behind 
certain questions. Beware of such seemingly innocent queries as: "What's your social security number?"; "Race?"; "Are you plan­ning to apply for financial aid?"; "How many times have you been on the cover ofTime this year?"; or "Do you have an unusual affection for small animals or large ones?" 
3. 
Be succinct. The people who read your es­says really don't care too much about you. (In fact, they're actually only looking for a good reason to avoid considering you seriously.) When asked for your solution to a major world crisis in 75 words or less, try to get by with 50. Remember, every complex problem has a simple, naive solution. 

4. 
Don't take the letter of recommendation too seriously. Anyone who would be influen­tial enough to weigh in the decision-making process would have no business associating with you. And who couldn't find one person to write a good letter of recommendation? (Is there such a thing as a bad letter of recom-


Brooks or Scotty Bowman, but you are still one of the finest people I've met since I've been at the Universty. You've been a credit to the Notre Dame community. I hope we don't lose you, but if you do decide to leave, good luck in all you do. 
To the Notre Dame players: You have banded together in adversity and played with the kind of spirit that makes us all proud. You have shown a lot ofclass as you embodied the Notre Dame sports ideal, even though the Uni­versity did not fulfill its part of the bargain to you. 
To Father Joyce and any others who had a hand in the hockey team's demise: For thirty years, you've been giving us rhetoric about ideals in major college sports and an athletic program filled with fairplay and student­athletes, not profit or loss margins. It is too bad that you didn't listen to your own words. You operated in bad faith ... and you can put that in your cigars and smoke them. 
The Notre Dame Hockey Team 1968-1983 Cut down in the prime oflife Rest In Peace 
mendation?) 
5. 
When asked to comment on the latest book you've read, Dostoevski, Bonhoeffer, and Camus seem preferable to (though certainly less entertaining than) Trudeau, Haefner, or Dr. Seuss. You might even want to read the book you write about, ifyou have some spare time some day. 

6. 
Don't fret over personal evaluation grids or scales -you can't win. If you rank youself highly they'll suspect you're dishonest and egocentric (by the way, those are bad qualities.) If you choose to rare yourself realistically they'll doubt your self-confidence and worthiness. You'd be best offcopying the latest graph from the front page of the Wall 


Streetjournal. 
7. Don't be overly opinionated. Obsequious­ness and deference are the two most exalted virtues of application filing. The less you say, the less they'll know about you, and the better they'll like you. 
P. 0. BoxQ 
Lenten season 
DearEditor: 
The Lenten season is a penitential period during which we recall and relive the pas­sion and death of jesus Christ. Imagine my chagrin and disappointment in finding that, at the height of Lent, all of the symbols of Christ's passion and death had been removed from the Holy Cross chapel. Gone were the stations of the Cross which detail and dramatize the step-by-step process of trial and condemnation, ordeal and torture and finally death. Gone also was the chapel crucifiX depicting the redemption act of Good Friday. Replacing the traditional and sacred symbols is a disappointing wall han­ging. Behind the altar, in place of a crucifix, is a free-form ink covered sheet which looks like a Rorschach test. 
It is beyond me what our campus ministry hopes to achieve with this large dose of culture shock. I cannot believe that this is what the Catholic students really want to stimulate the spirituality of their environ­ment. How much more experimentation? How much more substitution of the vulgar for the venerable? When will the students be given a larger voice in the quality of liturgi­cal celebration? 
Editor's Note: The appearance ofletters to the editor is subject to the daily space con­staints of the editorial page. Letters should be under 250 words and address specific issues. They must be typed and bear the address, telephone numbe·r and signature of the author. Initials and pseudonyms are not acceptable. Reproductions, carbon copies, '>r letters addressed to persons other than the editor are not acceptable. All letters are subject to editing. 


Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of eitl-ter institution. The news is reported as ac­curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofa majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column depict the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
(219) 239-5303 
E4itorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief..............................Michael Monk Managing Editor................Ryan Ver Berkmoes Executive News Editor ..............David Dziedzic SMC Executive Editor............Margaret Fosmoe Sports Editor...................................Chris Needles Editorials Editor .............................Paul McGinn Features Editor ............................ joe Musumeci Pboto Editor ...................................Rachel Blount 
Department Managers 
Business Manager .............................Tony Aiello Controller .............................................Eric Schulz Advertising Manager.......................Chris Owen Prod>;ction Manager..................Maura Murphy Circulation Manager......................Mark Miotto Systems Manager ...........................Bruce Oakley 
Founded November 3, 1966 

~SH0 W C fj~~SEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii:Friday, March 4, 1983 -·page 8 

Amessage at 2a.m. 
I 
began high school wanting to be a Baptist preacher. I wanted to m·emorize the New Testament from cover to cover; and as a born­again Christian, spend the rest of my life bringing sinners to accept Jesus Christ as their Lord and Saviour. "Ifon your lips is the confes­sion, 'Jesus is Lord', and in your heart the faith that God raised him from the dead, then you will find salvation. For the faith that leads to righteousness is in the heart, and the confession that leads to salva­tion is on the lips." This is what the Word of God, according to St. Paul, tells us to do; this is the message the evangelists preach. It is the way to the Father that the Bible points out. "Keep your eyes on my Son," the Lord God says. "In Him, I am well pleased." 
The Catholic faith is a complicated bureaucracy compared to the simple declaration offaith in Jesus that leads to salvation. Catholics get involved in a lot of"works"-keeping Lent, attending Mass, receiving the sacraments, lighting candles, burning incense, 
Rev. Robert Gtiffin 
letters to a lonely god 
memorizing the catechism, taking the Pope's claims seriously -that lose sight ofJesus. The Bible should be a lamp unto a Christian's feet. Catholics, busy with their useless liturgies, neglect the Bible, which is the only message God wrote to man, the only place where men can read God's plan, and be open to the mind and will of the Creator. This, at least, is the opinion of the preachers and evangelists that I watch on television. The Catholic Church, with its man-made rules and its unbiblical rituals, gets in the way ofsalvation. The Catholic Church, because it is a hindrance to Christians, is the invention of Satan, the prince ofdarkness, the father oflies. 
This is the message that comes through at two o'clock in the morning, when jimmy Swaggart, the preacher I wish I might he if! were a Baptist, gives the word. He swings his Bihle, open on his out· stretched hand, through the air, and Iam impressed with his author­ity as a prophet. I hdieve in jimmy Swaggart as a sincere man ofGod. I am ashamed I cannot present jesus as excitingly as he does. The priests I know who try to preach like horn-again evangelists make Jesus sound gimmicky. The Lord does not shine through their words; only the personality of the priest trying to sound like Jesus comes through. It worries me that evangelists seem more favored with power than priests do. 
Meanwhile, on this Catholic campus, letters get written to the newspaper. A teacher complains of the hrainwashing from prelates that keeps Catholics from thinking for themselves. It doesn't seem worthwhile arguingwith him that we are a church with traditions. A student makes an attempt at defending ahortion, and you wonder how often the message gets through that a serious commitment to 
Jesus invlves an openness to life. 
At Mass, seeing the students who come to pray, you wonder how deep their faith goes, under the editying display ofgood will, and you feel ashamed when your words have been too boring to keep their attention. There are other students who never come to Mass if they can help it: a number of them are disenchanted, embittered, indif· ferent. You're tempted to frontally attack them with the Gospel in the places where they live. Students have secrets that they keep away from priests: is there nothing you could tell them that would help them in life? Young people, in a hurry to join the rest of us failures, are so often sure that they know it all. They burn out early at the things at which they are best. I've stared at many a sad-eyed drunk and wondered where the beauty went. Ascorecard might read: age twemty-eight; two divorces, two abortions. My own scorecard is marked failure: I wasn't forceful with my warnings of that first, false step on the sands at Fort Lauderdale. 
Sometimes, I feel like invitingjimmy Swaggart to come to campus; to win soulsfor Christ. Hewouldn't win them all; nobody wins them all. The Catholic Church is not as bad asjimmy says it is. He wouldn't have the big, floppy Bible he waves over his head, if it wasn't for the Catholic Church. He wouldn't understand the Scriptures halfso well ifhedidn't have help in his interpretations from the traditions ofthe Church. But, unhampered by the politics and practices ofan institu· tional church, he has insights into truth, and his preaching burns with zeal. 
As a Catholic priest, I've figured out my faith; it's more sophistica­ted, I think, than the faith ofa fundamentalist Baptist preacher. Notre Dame -it sometimes seems to me at two a.m. -could be a spiritual powerhouse ifwe were truly evangelized. Instead, our Catholic faith just keeps us from being abnormally vicious, as we snarl criticisms at one another. 
I'd be grateful for even one ofjimmy Swaggart's converts telling me after Sunday Mass: "You've made me see jesus. I accept Him as Lord." As a priest belonging to this place, I'd like to hear that students are paying more than lip service to faith. In the good things they do, I'd like to be sure they are keeping their eyes on God's Son. 
Would it embarrass you to tell me ifyou are on your way to salva­lion? 
features 
A 
nyone who has spent a year on the Notre Dame or 
Saiint Mary's campus has heard of the ghost who in­
habits Washington Hall. No, wait, don't look at me like 
that. You know, Washington Hall-the creepy looking 
building next to the administration offices? I know 
you've heard ofit! Okay, if you insist, I'll tell you about 
both the buildingand the ghost. 
Washington Hall is a large building ofpseudo-Gothic Victorian (does that make any sense at all?) design. It was built in 1881, by Willouhby]. Edbrooke Ar­chiitects. The building actually consists of two build· ings; one an octagonal stage and theater, the second the North wing which contains offices and classrooms. It was primarily designed for music, with large practice rooms and an accoustical plan that provided the clarity necessary for musical recitals. 
Washington once also served as the general assembly hall for the university. Weekly films were held there, along wih lectures and special programs. Eventually the student body grew too large to be contained in Wash· ington, and the theater department moved in. 
In 1956 the theater was renovated for the depart· ment. New seats were installed, and the wiindows were hlacked over to prevent light leakage during daytime performmances. The origiinal murals on the walls ofthe theater were also covered to restrict light reflection. Presently the theater has limited use due to deteriora· tion. More renovations are planned for the near future. 
With the hlacked out windows giving the building a haunted atmosphere, what would he more natural than to have a ghost, right? 
Actually, the first ghost sighting Icould find record of occurred in 1920, hefore the renovations took place. At that time student professors used the huilding as a donn. They, and students from adjacent dorms. 
reported trumpets blowing at midnight. They even sa~ a ghostly figure on horseback riding up the stairs of tl hall. Those living in the building even reported the sound ofpapers being shoved under their door, but r paper appeared! 
After these sightings the ghost disappeared (from record) until 1946, when stories once again started t 
This time reports were offootsteps on the roof, sian ming doors on windless days, and, ofcourse, an actua sighting. Perhaps in keeping with the times, the ghost left his horse in greener pastures because he was now described as a figure in a bowler hat. 
Many people have claimed to have experienced the ghost since then. Most claim that it is a friendly j presence. Father Garrick, rector ofKeenan Hall, told m · that he had what might be called an encounter with ] Washington's ghost. He was a member of the student'!, theater group in the 60's and was spending the night i1 what is now called the "black box," a room in the bad ofthe top tloor ofthe North wing which painted totally black on the inside. He said that he was awakened by th feeing that someone else was in the room. He looked around, but saw nothing but the moonight· shining in : I the big windows. When he shut his eyes again, howeve, 
he saw a tall figure, about I 0 feet tall, standing hunche< over with his hands on his knees, by the window. Thil image appeared in the outlines seen on the back ofth eyelids after looking at light. He is still not sure if it was real presence, or just a trick of the imagination. 
Garrick does helieve in the ghost. He explains it as theater ghost. Theater ghosts are connoiseurs of the , theater. Thev choose theaters because of the wide spaces and the opportuniity to observe the produc-, tions. He warns that they are hard to please. and ours~ will surdy leave if the hall is ever changed from a j theater to stricti\· classrooms. This seems logical; wow 
---~----~--------------------------~--~-----~ ~ -------­
The Observer Features Section 
Friday, March 4, 1983 -page 9 

you want to haunt a classroom? -Other ghostly experiences have included toilets 
flushing, footsteps on the stairs, and even footsteps where there are no floors! Fred Syburg, a professor of the theater department, told me that the only possibly supernatural experience he has had could be explained by the settlement ofthe building. He told me that he of­
ten leaves his keys in the door of his office, and they 
have occasionally started swinging with no apparent 
reason. 
The only consistency the ghost has shown is the fact that he appears only to a single person. Even in the twentiies, one roommate would experience the nightly noises, while the other would sleep peacefully on. 
In my unending quest for information, I agreed to spend the night in the loft of Washington. However, af­ter listening to the stories people told, people who were not sure about the friendly nature of the ghost, I began to question my sanity. My editor decided to stick to his guns, and refused to listen to my pleas. He even refused to listen to my promises offood, money, and even cigarettes! 
That's how I ended up walking across campus with a group of friends (yes, I did get that concession) carry­ing sleeping bags. My assignment was to sleep in the loft, which is considered to be the ghost's favorite haunt. Well, I'm not afraid ofghosts, but I am terrified of ladders! I diu climb up'and check out the loft around midnight, but the thought ofencountering anything and ha\·ing to scramble back down those rickety lad­ders literally turned my stomach. 
I rejoined my friends on the balcony, a rather paler shade ofgreen than when I left them. and announced that I was slt:eping there. :'lleedless to say. the night proved fruitle~~-The onI\' disturbance turned, out 10 he some guys, who were also looking for the ghost (Ifthey saw anything I would attribute it to hallucinations). 
Deciding that perhaps I had too much company to be visited by the ghost and thinking ofeverything I owed my editor, I went back one evening at around I 0 p.m. ahd stayed in the loft (yes, the loft!) until 2 a.m. I still saw nothing. Perhaps the ghost has taken a vacation, or maybe he just didn't like me. I don't know for sure, but it seems to me that there are too many stories that have been around for too long, to totally discount the presence ofsuch a being. 
Where there is a ghost, there must be a person to be doing the haunting, rght? Wrong, accordng to a theory offered bv someone who was in the theater group with Garrick. This theory, relayed to me by Garrick, is that the spirit is excess energy. When an actor goes on stage, he exhudes energy to become the character he portrays. Garrick suggested that this released energy builds up and becomes the typical theater ghost. 
Another explanation has suggested that it is the ghost ofa steeplejack who fell from the fly loft while working on it in I886. 
Also offered has been the theory that it is the ghost of George Gipp -yes, the famous Gipper. He is supposed to have lived on the upper floors ofthe hall. Legend has it that the night before he caught his fatal illness, he slept on the steps outside ofWashngton. 
These are the older explanations. More recently it has been suggested that it is the ghost ofa student who fell while working on lightng equipment. 
But none of these explanatons offer a reason for a tlgure on horseback; I suppose we will never know t(Jr sure who (if anyone) haunts Washington Hall. 

= 
B
etween now and next Friday, the days become longer and the 
nights become non-existent. As required by the mythical college 
professor's handbook, one paper or test must be scheduled for the 
week before break or students will take the planned academic rest 
for granted and begin their vacat. m on Wednesday or Thursday (or 
even earlier!) The Friday before the Friday before break is here and 
the shadow ofwhat looms ahead before we depart from the guiding 
light ofthe Administration Building and Mary's watchful eye grows 
larger. Although it may seem like the shadow ofdeath, there is light 
at the beginning and end ofthe tunnel. Before all sleep is cast aside in 
favor ofthe ever-popular all-nighter, there are a few things to do to 
relax those taxed academic minds before they are taxed to their ut­
most. 
•THEATRE 
"And they are heading into their 200th hour, folks. Can you 
believe that? Look them, folks. Look at the determination on those 
faces? Will they make it?" That's the question, "will they make it." In 
Marathon '33 ,June Havoc deals with that issue as faced by her main 
character, June, and the marathoners of the I930's.Maratbon '33 
caps off the traditional dramatic productions of the Notre Dame­
Saint Mary's Theatre, with the less-known dramatic form, reader's 
theatre, taking the stage later in the semester to close out the season. 
Marathon '33 is one ofthe more ambit.ious productions in recent 
memory, including a company ofdancers who demonstrate what 
goes on at a typical marathon. This production depends on the 
audience for it to be most effective. Before going offto dance a little 
on your own in Chautauqua, stop by Washington Hall at 8 p.m. 
tonight or tomorrow evening and find out what dancing was like 
then. Tickets are 52.50 for students, faculty, and staff. 
•MUSIC 
Unless you are a member ofone ofthe campus choirs, choral 
music in performance is rarely heard here. That rare occasion to 
hear the music ofa visiting choir occurs this evening when the Val­
paraiso University Concert Choir will present an eveningofmusic in 
Sacred Heart Church. The concert begins at 8:30p.m. and admission 
is free. I. 
On Sunday, Edgar Muenzer, violinist, will present a concert of , 
sonatas by Beethoven, Aaron Copland, and Edvard Grieg at 4 p.m. in 
the Annenberg Auditorium. Muenzer studied under Diran 
Alexan ian, Edward Haines, and William Kroll, and has played with 
the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and the Chicago SymphonyString 
Quartet. He is a faculty member at Northwestern University's music 
school. Muenzer will be accompanied by William Cerny, a faculty ·member and former Chairman of the Notre Dame music depart­
ment. The recital is free ofcharge. 
•MOVIES 
Circle ofDeceit, directed by Volker Schlondortf, is tonight's 
presentation in the Friday Night Film Series. This German film looks 
at the tragedies ofwar as depicted in civil war-torn Beirut. The ac­
tion of the film is viewed through the eyes ofa journalist, played by 
Bruno Ganz, who gazes at the rubble and sees the confusion ofa war I 
in which everyone is a victim. Showtime is 7:30p.m. and admission 
is S2. 
Boris Pasternak's epic novel, DoctorZhivago, a story about the 
love oftwo people at the time ofthe Russian Revolution, was 
translated into the cinematic medium starring Omar Sharifand}ulie 
Christie. The Film Club of Notre Dame will present this film in the 
Engineering Auditorium tonight and tomorrow night at 7 and I0: IS 
p.m. Sharifand Christie are supported in their performances by Alec Guiness and Rod Steiger. Admission is a paltry SI. 
•cHAUTAUQUA 
When something is good, it catches on. That is exactly what has 
happened with theChance to Dance in Chautauqua. This weekend's 
edition is sponsored by the junior class of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's plus PW, Flanner, Lyons, Holy Cross, Stanford, and Pangborn, 
in cooperation with Howard Hall. For a little variation on a theme, Chance to Dance has a theme, "On the Beach." Come dressed ap­propriately (and that doesn't mean for the average March 4 tem­perature as recorded by the World Book Encyclopedia). The beach bash is tonight from 9:30p.m. to I :30 a.m. As enticement, there will be free refreshments and door prizes. 
And not to be outdone by those dancing folk the night before, the 
Progressive Music Club will be finding out who the real rockers are 
at the Dance Craze Dance Contest in Chautauqua tomorrow night 
from 9:30p.m. to 1:30 p.m. for Sl. There will be a video dance ex­
travaganza with a wide screen TV set up, tuned into M-TV. 
•NAZZ 
The ultimate in Nazz events takes place this weekend. What, do 
you so naively ask, is that? Why, it is onzv the Nazz music competi­
tion. The competition is tonight from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. Seventeen of 
the best campus musical acts will participate; Steve Wimmer, 
"Whirlwind", Mark Lochini, The Belletones, "Nobis", David Proctor, 
Jim Bustamante and many more. Tomorrow night will be "Winner's 
Night" at the Nazz. The five top acts will "strut their stuff' in one 
hour slots. The show begins at 8 p.m. and ends. 

I
lj;~orts~/~J~r~J~·e~;S====~======================F=n=·cta=y~,M=a=rc=h~4,=19=8=3==p=ag=e~lo 
By The ( Jbseruer and The Associated Press 
Ron Hudson has been named Notre Dame's 
new offensive coordinator in a coaching shakeup in the wake of 
Brian Boulac's move to the athletic administration. Tom Lichten­berg, offensive coordinator last season. takes over as recruiting coor­dinator and recievers coach. Jim Johnson, the Irish defensive coordinator and secondary coach, becomes Gerry Faust's assistant head coach. In a related move, Jay Robertson became NO's ninth full-time assistant. He will continue as defensive line coach. -The Obsen,er 
Brian Boulac, Notre Dame's assistant head football coach, has been named assistant athletic director in an Athletic Department shakeup announced yesterday. joe O'Brien and Roger Valdiserri, assistant athletic directors since 1976, have been named associate athletic directors. Col. John). Stephens, associate athletic director since 1976, has decided to step down from that post, ef. fectiveJuly 1. -The Observer 
Alabama's offensive coordinator, Mal 
Moore, has joined the Notre Dame football staff as running back coach. Moore fills a vacam:y created by Brian Boulac's decision to move into the Notre Dame athletic administration. ~ The Obsen•er 
The Irish swimmers continue their stand in the Midwest Invitational meet in Chicago. The Midwest began yesterday and concludes tomorrow on the campus of the University ofIllinois at Chicago. -The Observer 
The 1983 Notre Dame Lacrosse Team plays Northwestern University in a scrimmage this Sunday on Car­tier Field. The scrimmage, which will be played under game condi­
tions, marks the s4uad's t1nal warmup before beginning its third year 
of varsity competition. Faceoff will be at about 12:30. Coach Rich 
O'Leary's team will begin its regular season over break with games against Yale (at Baltimore) and Duke (at Durham, N.C.). -The Ob­server 
See SPORTS BRIEFS, page 13 
MIDWEST llhno•s 74. Oh1o St 73. OT lnd1ana 64. Purdue 41 lnd1ana St 95. Cre1ghton 87 Iowa 63, Northwestern 50 M1Ch1gan St 79. M1nnesota 67 
Notre Dame 59, Seton Hall40 Southern IllinOIS t06, West Texas State 104. 20T Wichita State 97. Bradley 96. 20T 
SOUTH Alabama 1 06. Florida 99. 20T Dav1dson 83, VMI 68 Kentucky 61, MISSISSippi 58 Lou1s1ana St 66, Vanderb•ll53 Maryland 67, N. Ca101ina St 58 MemphiS St 94. Florida St 67 MISSISSippi St. 69. Auburn 53 SW Lous•ana 80, McNeese St 59 
WEST A11zona 74, Stanford 73 A11zona St 79, Cahforma 69 Fullerton St. 81, UC-Santa Barbara 60 Houston 74, Arkansas 66 Nevada-Las Vegas 67, San Jose St 61 No Anzona 76, Montana 70 Texas-EI Paso 68, San D1ego St 66 Washington 82, USC 73 
The Observer w111 accept classtfleds Mon­day through Fnday. 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. However. class1f1eds to appear 1n the next 1ssue must be rece1ved by 3 p.m. the bus1ness day pnor to 1nsert1on. All class1f1eds must be prepaid. 
e1ther 1n person or through the mail. 
Classifieds
j_t:=:=============================l
Losl: RING OF KEYS--Volkswagen car NEED A RIDE FOR 1.2. OR 3 PEOPLE 
RIDE NEEDED TO ST LOUIS AREA for ATLANTAatlanta ATLANTA need fide to Stas Long t•me no see Love, Cec key. approx 9 others please return to TO DC AREA FOR BREAK. CALL 6749 
break Call Mary at287-0372. Atlanta for break. Can leave Fnday, noon
~I NOTICES 
Metallurg1cal Eng Off1ce or call 6328 and Call Dave at 6931 J. Parano1d? You should be WATCH
leave message for Dave. Thank you Need 1wo ndes to P•ttsburgh for break Desperately need ride to Washington 
IT Or the Mag1c Thumb w1ll get you Call Paul6251 DC area. Can leave as early as THE NEW ND HOCKEY FIGHT SONG TYPING AVAILABLE. 287·4082 FOUND NOTRE DAME JACKET AT 
Thursday 3/10 W11i be delighted to share SHAME SHAME MOLD NOTRE DAME 
MARTY WALLSTEPAN COURTS ON FEB 24/25. PLEASE HELP need nde to WASH DC usual Please call Maureen at 7978. THE ALMIGHTY DOLLAR CONTROLS 
We want youUgly Duckling Rent-A-Car, Friday 
IDENTIFY COLOR AND SIZE AND IT'S for break W1ll share usual Maura X2244 · YOUR GAMES SEND THE HOCKEY 
1n the Hare Knshnas 
noon til Monday noon $29.95 Includes YOURS. CALL MIKE AT 277-2653 DESPERATELY NEED 2 RIDES TO PROGRAM OFF TO DIE ITS Grab your tambourine and dance w1ldly150 free miles. Sales tax & Insurance 

DESPERATE' Need A1de To Northern NEW JERSEYII WILL SHARE USUAL SACRELIGOUS TO ASK WHY WHAT through the quad Hare w1ll be watchmg! 
extra. Phone Rob for reservations 259­
N J. OR NYC. Can LEAVE By 12 Noon CAN LEAVE 3/10 CALL MIKE 3389 THOUGH THE ODDS BE GREAT OR 8459. 
ON Fnday THE 12TH W11i SHARE The SMALL THE HOCKEY PROGRAM IS BEWAREI
FOR RENT 
USUAL CALLJERRY AT 3893 NEED DESPERATELY-R1de/r~ders to DOOMED AFTER ALL WHILE HER The eyes at F1sher are upon you TYPING Boston over Easter. W1ll share usual, can LOYAL SONS GO MARCHING INTO Jack1e Boggs 
SYRACUSE BOUND? I need a nde to leave 3-30 at4PM Make Ana happy, call OBSCURITY 
Happy 21st Birthday 
684-8793 House:4 bedroom, near ND, $250 per 
and/or from Syr NY for Spnng Break. Will TOM x6802 mo Fall or summer No util1t1es. Phone Rawski and Loddy! 
share usual. Call Bill x1374 (319) 322-8735. Patty. 

GOOD LUCK TO OUR HOCKEY TEAM. HELP! NEED RIDE TO BOS­
BEAT BOWLING GREEN. MOST OF US Gu1tar-man Dan. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Studennt 
Need ride to OMAHA for break. Can TON,NH,ME,VT.OR EVEN loans -$20-$200 One percent mterest. FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT 
WILL NOT BE ABLE TO BE THERE IN Beth and I talked to El and we know you
leave Wed. Call Dan x6740. OUEBEC,CANADA! WILL SHARE 
PERSON BUT O!JR LOVE AND BEST st1ll love us! Just th1nk -only 3 more
Due in one month. One day wail. Open M SCHOOL YEAR CLOSE TO ND 277­USUAL CAN LEAVE FRI .MAR 11 WISHES GO WITH YOU. SIGNED, years and we'll be seniors!! Rah. By the
F. 11:30-12:30 LaFortune Basement 3604 a RIDE TO PITTSBURGH
Need for PLEASE CALL 8580 OR 8588 THANKS 
YOUR MANY TRUE FANS way-Greg and Chr~s say hLNOTICE LAST DAY FOR MAY 83 break. Can leave on Fnday at noon Maureen
GRADS TO APPLY IS MARCH 9 !!! FURNISHED TWO ROOMS, PRIVATE 
Please call Tem x6797. Need RIDE to CLEVE• _.ND for break 
ENTRANCE MALE PREF ALL 
Call Jack 1 588 What Will the headlines read next week?
dnve a WILSON DRIVEAWAY car to your UTILITIES PAID. 277-3604 Need a nde to DALLAS tor break Call "Bates Carnes lnsh to Wms·· 
need 11de to PEORIA, Bradley U.. Tom at277-8061 RIDE NEEDED TO CLEVELAND FOR ··rrena Keys lnsh V1ctones·· 
destma1•on for break For mfo: 233-6495 can 
leave Thurs. 3/10 aHer 4 p.m. call She1la SPRING BREAK-CAN LEAVE FRIDAY · Ruth Ka1ser Rolls as lnsh Wm FURN 2 BAM pass. 3 AVAIL IMMED 
2911 RIDE NEEDED TO ANYWHERE IN AT NOON-CALL JOANIE X 2244 all right, already ...enough of the bad
TYPING IN MY HOME (resumes, letters. Neat & Near ND. Call233-7631 
reports. term papers. etc.). NEAT. AC­UPSTATE NEW YORK--BUFFALO. 
puns. Just go out and watch Carrie, Dear Karen,
CURATE WORK. REASONABLE 4 Room.s•ngle apt totally remedied, SYRACUSE ALBANY---WILL SHARE Need 11der ONE WAY to D.C. area. Leave Trena, Ruth, Laura, Mary Beth, Usa, 
llovelioveyou•loveyouohgodlioveyouRATES. 233-7009. major payed mo. 287-USUAL--CALL CHRIS ANYTIME at3510 Wed ,Mar 9 Andy 1246. Hurry! Denise. Debbi, Shari, Theresa, Jenny,
utilities 150.00 
love. Greg 8868 aHer 6:00 OR8573 
Lynn, and Janice lead the Irish women to 
their first NCAA Tournament Bid! 
HEY STUDI!!(Tom W)t1ghtStudent Rental, 5-bedroom home $420 NEW JERSEY! RIDE NEEDED TO 
SUNDAY2PMvsDAYTON 
reans. t 969D,and wed flltes at Sr
mo 233-6779 Bar!!!
NORTH/CENTRAL NJ SPRING
FOR WEDNESDAY 7:30 PM vs THE
LOST/FOUND 
PERSONALS 
Love. your blonde and brunette a~rheadsBREAK. PLEASE CALL KATHY 7906 HOOSIERS 
(She1la and L1sa)SITE: ACC ARENA NEED RIDE TON. VAID C AREA FOR 
' Need A1de To Connecticut For Spr~ng ADMISSION: FREEl!! with I.D. STUD 2(allas J P1nk) Lets do Wed mtesLOST PAIR OF SILVER FRAMED BREAK CAN LEAVE MARCH 10th
FOR SALE 
Break Will Share Usual Please Call Dan Be there or be a rhombus more often--even 1f we are a1rheads andGLASSES IN PLASTIC BROWN CASE 
caCALL JIM AT 1763. at x6824 THE CASE WAS FALLING APART AND 
your fnend IS a stud! Love who else but 
the Kantor throat and Ms NuclearIS HELD TOGETHER BY A PIECE OF KAPLAN MCAT books for sale call 7252 I need a nde to Bostton 1mean I need a ONE or TWO RIDES needed to the GAR­weapons herself! 
SILVER DUCT TAPE IF FOUND 
nde to Boston. Chns 1774 DEN STATE for Spr~ng Break Yes, we do SENIOR CLASS TAKE NOTE: Nomina­PLEASE CALL PHIL AT 8295 
MOVING SALE.COLOR TV.BUNK tions for Semor Class Fellow will take DESPERAELY NEEDED!'!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
want to go to NEW JERSEY for break. Will Hey Boys--Doni even say you d•dnl get a
BED.COFFEE PURDUE: I hve there! And unfortunately, pay the uusual Please (PLEASE) call place Tues. & Wed. March 8 & 9 1n the 
personal. Love the Muppets lover and the TABLE,BOOKCASE.DESK.MATTRESS I'm g01ng home for Spnng Break! If Sarah at 1361 or Mary at1272 Please I!!!! dmmg halls (C-D hnes 1n North) and 
nonsemor Cheg. 
Large 
IRON.HAIR DRYER.BOY anyone happens to be planmng on pas­LaFortune at lunchtime Get out there and $REWARD$ 
BICYCLE,CALL 277-Sing through there on the way to some­CONNECTICUT bound?! We need let your cho1ce be heard! P.S --No Alan -for the return or whereabouts of HP-11 C 
4977,EVENINGS,WEEKENDS place better (or even actually gomg there (desperately) ONE or TWO fides to CON­Aida's, please! 
va1n, Has your love for me gone down the calculator taken from a blue backpack at to stay), call Tom x1396 1 need a nde! 
NECTICUT for Spnng Break. Please call dram? -Your Bath1ng BeautySMC D1mng Hall Thur. n1ght, 2-24. No FOR SALE: 1980 ·Yamahopper MC Thanks Mary at 1272 orSarah at 1361 W1ll payquestions asked. Has Personal Value.­
Lowm11eage, Excellent condition -$300 
the usual 
ND/SMC GYMNASTICS CLUB, Good Oh, the humamty Please call K1m -4176 Please call Dan at x6824 RYDPLEEZ? MPLS SPRBRK DAVE luck and blow the W1ndy C1ty away Your 1 3039thanx 
Fan C1ndy ROBBIE-HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE
FOUND· G~rl's watch outs1de North 3-bdrm, bnck ranch, 611 E Angela, CIA LOOKING FOR FUN IN THE SUN OR BEST LITTLE BASEBALL PLAYER IND1mng Hall on the 16th. Call2905. and gas heat. 2-car garage, fam1ly room. HELP! Need 1 nde to N FLORIDA Can JUST HEADING SOUTH? NEED SMC ART STUDENTS Heres to a LAKEWOOD! LOVE YOU-JOANIE
screened-•n porch, 2,500 sq H. $69,000 leave almost anyt1me. Rose 7957 or 7956 RIDERS TO MYRTLE BEACH OR AIKEN LOST. Lad1es gold watch at the bars Call287-8721 SOUTH CAROLINA/ AUGUSTA GEOR­
GRAND opemng cheers! Love, N/A ATTENTION N D MEN (ESP SWIM­
I 
Saturday n1ght. Please call L1z x8084 GIA AREA CALL ED AT 233-6311 WILL JUNIORS FALL mto the Bahamas Oc­MERS & DIVERS WITH TIGHT ASSES)LOVELY LASS needs nde to In­
Thanks. LEAVE FRIDAY NIGHT
dianapolis for spnng break. I can leave tober Break 1983 8 Days & 7 N1ghts atthe FOR A MEAN RUB CALL CHRIS X 7830 
Wed, March 9 If yau·re go•ng my way, LOST Black Nylon "Loop" Jacket at the PITTSBURGH CLUB Seats Still 
Sheraton Bnt•sh Coloma! Round T11pcall L1sa at3882. Thanks!
TICKETS 
A11fare Cost $410-$150 downpayment NOBIS is backI
Blue Lme Club aHer Saturday's hockey 
available for Sp11ng Break Bus Round tnp 
game Keep the coat , but please return $45 00 and One ways $29 00 Call Bnan 
w111 be collected 1n Yes. folks. the band that won the CfiiiCSNeed A1de to eastern PA for Spnng hearts at Sen1or Bar last month •s back
my eyeglasses. Please turn 1n to lost and Break Will x1743 
found at Adm. Bldg 
I NEED 14 TICS FOR DAYTON GAME­Allentown/Hamsbg area To BABAR THE ELEPHANT Just Come see them tonight at the Nazz mthe
share usual Call Dean. 8647. Thanks 
CALL 1751 thought I'd let you know that my WISh band competition It Will be no contest!
PITTSBURGH CLUB Seats shll HELP'!! I've lost a gold cross and cha•n-­D.C. for Easter ava•lable lor Spnng Bus Call Br~an 
(from the Japanese c01n) came true Need DAYON TIX $$ J1m 233-2386 
Thanks for 1t and the great ume Saturday
Sat. nile 2/26, between Farley and D2 x1743
Need ndeto D.C. for Easter Break. Would park1ng lot. PLEASE call me, Kate. at Its our ROTC's birthday
mght. "MARGIE WHIPPERPOOL.. P S. NEED TWO DAYTON TIX $$$call Steve When s my first raquetballlesson?
hke to leave on 3-30. Please call Chuck at favonte x3838 1f you have any 1nfo--1t means a a one 11ngy d1ngy Call1ng Bella Nowalk (Airlorce, Gene?) on Saturday Call8708
1801. Thank You great deal to me. 8919 and am1che cc. co, Ang1e. and Patty Th1s and WISh Gene a Happy B1rthday! GuessSECRET SQUIRREL The Calf1sh say he
ST LOUIS ST. LOUIS Need nde to St. IS 11! The thousand Chnstmas you ve Who?
NEED 2 Dayton T1x$$$Steve 233-2651 don I apprec1ate you rougmn up hiS leek·
WERE YOU AT FLANNERS BASE­LoUis for Spnng Break W1ll pay usual been wa11-•ng for I'll get you my pretty 
MENT PARTY SATURDAY NITE? DID Please call Mo at7126 and your ltttle dog too Congrats on the less gangsters can fix 1t
or239-5845 He so you·ll never throw darts agam W1ll rumble the
YOU PICK UP MY JEAN JACKET BY completion of your semor camps Watch SMC STUDENTS!! Throw Your Hat In
6-man ~~ Th1s weekend--Common
ACCIDENT? LEVI'S JACKET, PRETY out world, Bell IS weanng a v1rg1n s dress The R1ng! Apply For STUDENT
ground, N. Quad--Our cho1ce of weapons
NEW. COULD YOU PLEASE RETURN and plans on the Wildest mght of her hfe! GOVERNMENT COMMiSSIONERS!!
WANTED 
(pillows)--YOU DIE'!! D1amond Sm1les
IT? CALL SUE AT 3560 OR 6810 FAR­Need nders to Palm Beach, FL Leav1ng Best w•shes from the melting WICked WIICh March 2-7 P1ck up apphcallons 1n Student 
LEY 315 Thurs. March 10. Call Sue 5193 SMC of the west P S You won't have seen the last of us. Act•v•t•es Off1ce DUE BY MAR 7!When you least expect•!. expec111 
Lost: A gold relig1ous medal with Mary on Surfs up 1n So. California. Dnv1ng to A1de for two needed to 0 HARE on Thurs WENEEDVOUI SENIORS!!!!!!!!! Come and dance an eve­Cahforma for spnng break? I could use a Call Kann at Wed. Thurs
the front and Lynn Mane 5/9/71 on the Mar 10 leav1ng about 7pm A rowdy crowd 1s necessary for the lnsh Need ode to ChiCaQO, or mng away m the ACC Monogram rm back. It was lost on the way to the Cred1t I1H G1ve M•ke a call at x t 688 Thanks 2910. basketball to become There w111 be hot and cold snacks, open
women·s team (March 16,17) W1ll pay gas. M1chelle 7092 
Umon on Fnday It IS of great sentimental NCAA Bound! Make a note and BE bar from 7 30 IO 9:00, ano danc1ng 1111 
value! If found, please call x1271 !! !!NORTH CAROLINA!! Need RIDE lor Desperately need a nde to MASS for THERE 1 00 You can purchase your t1ckets at Spnng Break! Can & w11ileave any S day! break can leave Thurs share usual 7 SEATS STILL AVAILABLE ON THE
Sunday, 2 pm, vs Dayton $5 00 per person from your hall rep or the 
Call J1m at8921 Dave -1766 LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS HOME FOR
Someone claimed my black ski jacket Wednesday, 7 30 pm, vs them Hoos1ers student actiVities off1ce 1n LaFortune Be
SPRING BREAK!!! PLEASE DROP
from ACC Security about two weeks oiiU there on F11day March 25. 1983!!!!!!! 
ago. IrS NOT YOURS. Please turn in to RIDERS NEEDED TO MEMPHIS TENN A1ders needed to St Pete-Tampa area or Both 1n the ACC Arena YOUR CHECK FOR $75.00 WITH JOHN 
Lost & Found orcontact me x1025. Cost FREE!f WITH 1.0. 
OR LITTLE ROCK ARK FOR SPRING en rt. Share dnv1ng and gas Leavmg ENGEMAN. 308 SORIN TODAY!!! BREAK CALL JOY 1318 Fnday 3/11 aHernoon Call Mark 287­LOST:one F---THE DRAFT button If 
5208 l"m very proud T R cuz you showed em Dear Cather1ne. found, please call 8704 anytime. VOLUPTUOUS BLONDE needs a nde who you are A b•g step tor your k1nd A The seven commandments of the lawd REWARD home to the M1nn-St. Paul area for spnng ATLANTA atlanta ATLANTA E. KEVIN ROSEl Presidential fnend. I don·t mmd Many youse god 
break If you re go1ng my way, call Sue at Need nde to Atlanta for break Can leave Yes. The Sensuous Domer IS back crazy th1ngs w1th thiS JOb anew W1th much 1) Youse shall not smoke LOST: Gold co•n necklace Sunday Feb 2170 Fnday noon_ Maybe someone g01ng thru aga1n See h1s god-like body tomght as he pnde my fnend I say, I love you! All my 2) Youse shall not eat 20 between North D1mng Hall, P. W., and FLORIDA can help Call Dave at x6931 leads NOBIS 1nto the Nazz band competi­best, NWC 3) Youse shall not stay up 
WANTED needoneRIDERtocomeback tion E K wtll s1ng h1s htt songs Boned 4) Youse shall not brUise from HOUSTON, TEXAS to ND w1ll be NEED RIDERS TO HARRISBURG PA Aga1n. Naturally . ·LIZ . and hiS filling Dear Op1e. I love you Love always MaJOr­5) Androgen y can be tun LOST 1n C-D lme of North· 1 blue N.D returmng on e1ther the 18th or the 19th of AREA OR ANYWHERE ON TPIKE CALL tnbute to Notre Dame. Take Your MBA less 6) A1n t no SIXth commandment backpack, contams· 1 red --umhed" March. W1ll spilt the usual costs Call JEFF at232-4731 School and Shove It 11 w111 be a n1ghtto 7) Youse shall not have a bad. 
the library If found please call x2966. 
bad notebook Saul Bellow s THE VICTIM, Rosemary at 6858 or Kelly al6715 remember LLD HEY KID YOU FINALLY MAE>E IT case RIDERS WANTED TO ITHACA, N Y OR NO LONGER A TEEN ill SEE YOU And you thought you wouldn I get a per­
and TIME mag. If you picked 1t up by Need RIDE to Phi adelphia or Wilmington. THEREABOUTS. TONIGHT WITH A SPECIAL PRESENT sonal! There was tnree others. but the
m1stake at Wed lunch, PLEASE call SPRINGBREAK 
8830 
De. area to. spnng break. Please call Matt CALL 282-1517 LISA 1s a Iemme fatale 1n her BLACK HAPPY 20th 8-DAY LOVE MGF system ate them 7374 LACE G1ve her a call at 2244 Me what Is MASH DEAD! P S It you re still up for tomorrow rught. a
LOST--woman·s gold T1mex watch; 1n or Anyone go1ng to MARYLAND­near o·shag on 3/1. I am very unhappy Need nde to MINNESOTA for spnng SALT /WASH. area-I really need a nde To Laune Gnff1lh. You wanted 11 and we spec1al d1spensat1on IS ava1lable tor num­
are to ber Two Hast a 
Without 1t--return 1t to me and name your break Can leave anyt1me Call Marg1e at HOME! Anyt1me before or dunng break more than happy to g1ve 11 you Hesh and Lmda Welcome to Notre Dame reward!! l1z x6825 
SMC4173. Call Gma x6961 THANKS! Love, A•ch and Scott Have a great weekend! 

!,.heObserver College Roundup 
No. 1 Coogs clinch SWC crown 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. (AP)-Top­ranked Houston clinched its first Southwest Conference regular season basketball championship last night by defeating fifth-ranked Arkansas 74-66 behind reserve· sophomore Benny Anders' 1 H points. 
The triumph gave the Cougars a 15-1 record in the SWC, which it joined in 1976, and a 24-2 overall record. They have a 19-game win­ning streak, the longest in the nation. 
Arkansas is 24-2, both losses com­ing to Houston, and 1.3-2 in the con­ference. 
, It was the first time that two SWC schools ranked in the top five in the nation ever met. 
Akeem Abdul Olajuwon added 15 points for the Cougars while Mic­hael Young scored 14 and Clyde Drexler 1.3. 
Arkansas, which entered the game with an eight-game winning streak and a 28-game winning streak at Barnhill Arena, led only twice in the game, at 2-0 and 9-8 midway through the first half. From then on, it was all Houston as Anders hit six­of-seven field goal tries in the first half to give the Cougars a .34-27 ad­vantage. 
The Razorbacks twice within the second halfpulled within two points as a rebound shot by Darrell Walker and a jumper by Joe Kleine cut the Cougars' margin to 47-45 with 11:37 remaining. 
But Drexler and Young each con­
nected on a pair ofthree-point plays 
to increase Houston's lead to 53-45. 
Kleine hit three straight baskets. Alvin Robertson hit a three-point play and John Snively put in a 20­footer to pull the Razorbacks within one again at 57-56, with 5:48 remaining. 
Houston then outscored Arkansas 8-0 on two goals apiece by Olajuwon and one apiece from Young and Drexler. 
Kleine, a 6-11 sophomore, paced the Razorbacks with 20 points. Walker added 16 and Snively 12. 
Indiana 64, Purdue 41 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)-In­diana's battle with Purdue for first place in the Big Ten Conference was a game ofemotion. 
The Hoosiers had it and the 
Boilermakers didn't. 
Randy Wittman scored 16 points and Indiana held 20th-ranked Purdue scoreless during a seven­minue span in the second half last night as the 11th-ranked Hoosiers defeated the Boilermakers 64-41 in a college basketball game. 
"Emotionally, we were just not ready to play tor the championship," Purdue coach Gene Keady said. 
"I felt like they did exactly what I expected them to do. There was no surprise. They ran their offense and played hard defense. I'm not sure if we could have plugged the dam if we had two day~ to play the game." 
Knight closed his locker room af­ter the game, allowing no players to be interviewed. 
"We had good concentration from everyone," Knight said. "We got help from people in situations in the way they played their roles." 
Knight's most emotional com­ments came just after the game ended and the crowd was on its feet. He walked to the scorers' table, grabbed the microphone and shouted, "We need you here again Saturday night, Saturday night." 
Indiana hosts Illinois Saturday night. 
Illinois 74, Ohio St. 73 
COLCMBU~. Ohio (AP) -Sub­stitute Kevin Bontemps' two free throws with 1 0 seconds left in overtime gave Illinois a four-point lead and the lllini withstood a rally by 14th-ranked Ohio State to beat the Buckeyes 7 4-7.3 last night. 
The defeat knocked Ohio State from a share of the Big Ten Con­ference lead with Indiana, an easy winner over Purdue. Ohio State dropped to 10-6 in the conference and 18-8 for all games. 
Ohio State, losing to Illinois for the second time this season, closed the gap with one free throw by Ron Stokes and two more foul shots by Larry Huggins as time expired. 
Huggins was fouled hy Illinois freshman Bruce Douglas, hut the of­ficials ruled there was no time remaining. So Huggins sank his two free throws with no players at the foul line, foiling Ohio State's chances at a rebound basket on a missed free throw. 
Iowa 63, N. U. 50 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -Bob Hansen hit a three-point t1eld goal to ignite a second half surge that carried Iowa to a 6.3-50 victory over Northwestern in Big Ten Con­ference basketball last night. 
Iowa, keeping alive its hopes for an NCAA tournament bid, led by on­ly three points at halftime, but the Hawkeyes limited Northwestern to one field goal during a span ofnearly 11 minutes in the second half and pulled away down the stretch. 
Hansen's three-pointer put Iowa ahead 45-35 with 11:11 left in the game and the senior guard followed with a rebound basket and free throw to increase the lead.to 48-35 with 9:14 remaining. 
Greg Stokes and Steve Carfino each sank a pair offree thr~ws to ex­pand the Iowa lead to 52-36 attahe 
5:06 mark before Northwestern's 
The moose is Loose at ffiacri's II! 
. 75e MOOSEHEAD 
Sunday March 6 3 pm Close 
Macri's now open on Sunday's Coming: Tuesday-.75¢ HeinekenBottles Wednesday-.50¢ Michelob bottles Both Days-5 pm close 
277-7273
Macri's located behind Jeremiah Sweeney's 
Jim Stack countered with two free throws and a jump shot. 
However, Carfino drove for a layup after a steal for a 54-40 lead with .3:49 left and Iowa was in con­trol the rest of the way. 
Carfino led Iowa with 19 points, including 1 1 in the t1rst nine minutes of the game, and Hansen added 1.3, all but two in the second half. Stack had 1.3 and Art Aaron 11 to lead Northwestern. 
Iowa sent its record to 18-H over­all and 9-7 in the Big Ten. Northwes­tern. hoping for a bid to the National Invitational Tournament, fell to 16­10 and '-9. 
Mich. St. 79, Minn. 67 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Michigan State guard Scott Skiles scored 2 5 points to lead the Spartans to a 79-6 7 victory over Minnesota in Big Ten basketball last night. 
The victory boosted Michigan 
State's record to 14-1 1 overall and 
7-8 in the Big Ten. Minnesota fell to 
17-8 and 8-7. 
The Spartans came back from a 
first-half deficit and took the lead 
midway through the second half, 
Skiles tying it at 55 with one of his 
three three-point shots. 
From there the Spartans main­
tained a slight edge until the final 
two minutes, when they extended it 
by making free throws after the Gop­
hers were forced to foul. 
The teams traded the lead back and forth in the first half. The Gop­hers gained a 39-37 advantage going into intermission when Marc Wilson hit a jumperwith three seconds left. 
Minnesota had led by as many as eight in the half, but the Spartans were able to get back into the game after each Gopher spurt. 
Friday, March 4, 1983 -page 1 1 

DePaul's Brett Burkholder drives the baseline in the Demons' 52-51 loss to South Carolina Wednesday night at Columbia, S.C. The Gamecocks' win gave a boost to Notre Dame's chancesfor an independent NG4A Tournament bid, which bad fickered after DePaul beatND on a last-second shot last Saturday. ( AP Photo) 
COLLEy·s SPORTSWEAR 
1813 S.lronwood, South Bend 219·234·6149 
LW.W. 
MlahLW.W. S.B.

~-~)1
;·~u~~~Yness,w~~~ ~ 
A.A.
team, special event, promotion, , fraternity, or 
~ 
:IE
sorority." 
&. 0 
•Custom Screen 
c
Printing T·shirts, sweat 
1-..----------------) "' ;
shirts, award jackets &caps 
* 
Ironwood VIllageon quantities Discounts 
South 
Live for God and His People as a ... 
Capuchin 
a what? 
Capuchin Franciscans ar< a religious fraternity of men trying to live the Gospel in ' the Spirit of Francis of Assisi in today's 
world. 
_ Join us in promoting peace, education, " ...J. and justice--in ghettoes... in jails... in ~ '11 soup kitchens ... in parishes ... in halfway 
llllllf' houses .. on radio and TV. 
Join us in working with and for the advancement of blacks, whites, Hispanics, Native Americans and people of the Third World in Central America. 
Check out whether being a Capuchin, committed to living for God and his people, in the spirit of Francis, is for you. No obligation. Write today for more information. 
.................... Clip and Mail Today! .................... . Father John Holly, OFM Capuchin, 1820 Mt. Elliott Avenue, Detroit, Ml 48207 Yes, send me information about the Capuchin way of life. 
Name Age __ Phone ____ 
College ________ Address _______ 
State ______ Zip ____
~ity 


The Observer Friday, March 4, 1983 -page 12 

Herschel Walker's breakaway to the United States Football League has prompted much concern on col/lege campuses across the nation. Walker, whose New jersey Generals travel to Los An­geles to play the Express in the league':> inaugural weekend Sun­day, was the first undergrad to turn pro in many decades. Steven Labate assesses the Notre Dame reaction at right. ( AP Photo) 


USFL moves in 
Irish comment on Herschel move 
By STEVEN LABATE 
Sports Writer 
Two schools of thought concern­
ing llerschc.:l Walker's decision to 
turn professiHnal and thus forego his 
senior season at the llniversitv of 
Georgia have emerged in l(JOthall 
circles. 
One view holds that the Walker 
case is an exception and it will not 
~et ott a wild dash among college 
t(mthall plavers for the big mon~:y of 
th~: protessional ranks. 
The other stance cont~:nds that 
Herschel's jump to the N~:w Jersey 
Generals of the United Stat~:s foot­
hall League is the beginning of a 
trend which will see several yo11ng 
college grid stars a year follow his 
path to the pros. 
Who's right? 
Currently, it is too difficult too 
determine, hut there is virtually 
unanimous agreement among foot­
hall insiders that Herschel Walker 
did what was best for llerschel 
Walker under the circumstances. 
"If you're 20 or 21," says Notre 
Dame head coach Gerry faust. "and 
that kind of money is being thrown 
at you. it's tough not to take it. I can 
understand what he did. 
"On the other hand, I think that 
there has to he some kind of 
restraint. I like to see a young man 
get an opportunity to get his degree. 
And when you draft or sign a person 
before he has his four years of 
schooling, then he doesn't have the 
opportunity to graduate." 
Irish tailbacks Greg Bell and Rod­
ney Morris recognize that a running 
back's career can end suddenly with 
one tackle. For this reason, both men respect Walker's decision to turn pro. 
"lie has great ability," com­mented Morris. "and t<>r him and on­ly l(>r him, it (the signing) was a good move. I think it was a unique experience. lie made a wise deci­sion for himself." 
"The reason you go to college is to get securitv for vour future," said Bell. "That\ what the man did." 
In spite of the detenses, collegiate coachc~ and administrators across the countrv are up in arms. They believe that the Walker case will create a domino eff'ect -as soon as the tirst player signs, many will f(>l­low suit quickly after him. 
Bell remarked, "I sec it afi'ecting a 
lot of people. This is going to start a 
trend." 
However, others are inclined to believe that this case will be the ex­ception rather than the rule among college football players. 
"I don't l(>resee it hurting college 
football," commented Morris. "It 
was a unique case and I think most 
people realize it." 
'viorris bases his beliefs on the fact that the Canadian Football League has been unable to lure gridder~ away from their college campuses despite their hardship program. However it should be noted that the situation involving the new USFL is quite different from the one that ex­ists north of the border. 
Through television revenue from 
the major networks and cable, the 
USFL will be able to offer more 
lucrative contracts than their north­
ern rivals. Also the differing 
geographies ofthe two leagues must 
count for something. Naturally, 
1983 Senior Formal "The Main Event" Apri19, 1983 Palmer House, Chicago 
Bids Go on Sale Next Week $65.00/couple 
The Notre Dame Student Union 
needs 
enthusiastic, hardworking, & talented people 
to assume next year's leadership roles ... Pick up applications at the N.D, Student Union's secretary's desk. QUESTIONS? Call Margaret at 239-7757 Deadline for applications is March 11. 

more plavers will he attracted to the nightlife and media ofa "Jew York or a Lo~ Angeles over the icetishing of Alberta or Saskatchewan. 
Will the l SfL prove harmful to the football program at :--Jotre Dame~ Will some Irish h>rego an extra season ofeligibility or possiblv their senior year ti>r the money of the pros' 
"I think that \'erv ~eldom will we lose a person like that (via the 
L'SfL ),"  stated  Faust.  "I  hope that  
thev'll want to stay.  
"The  kind  of  young  man  that  

we'rt· trying to oring in here are young men that want to pursue their degrees. If they go to that (signing), it would disappoint me because I want them to come here not only li>r football. hut lor Notre Dame." . 
Relations currently oetween the Irish coaching staffand l 'SfL officiab are neutral. But around the country. many colleges have let it be known that the new league is not welcome at their practices or on campus. 
USC, UCLA. Baylor. Texas, Texas A&M. Texas Tech. Georgia Tech. and Mississippi State are just some of the colleges which have made public statements since Walker's sig­ning expressing dissatbfaction with the new league and imposing sanc­tions against it. 
At Notre Dame, a "wait-and-see" approach has been taken. 
"I really have to see what's going to happen," said Faust, "before I can make a judgement on the issue. I don't know what's going to happen, and I don't know what we're going to do. I want to know the facts before I make any statements. 
"I want to sit down with the league first and see what they're going to do." 
In a sense, the whole football na­tion is waiting as well to see how well the new kids on the block will fair. If the USFL is a success, it could change the structure ofcollege foot­ball in the years to come. 
• • • Romp 
continuedfrom page 16 
Kempton earned him the last six points of the half. He finished with I 0 points. 
··we played well in the first halC' said Digger Phelps. "We're in the same groove we want to be in. We did an excellant job on the boards." 
Early in the second half, Paxson took control with a pair oflayups oft' ofsteals and the Irish led -t7-19 mid­way through the tina! session. 
The Pirates outscored Notre Dame 1 1-2 over the next five minutes in an attempt to make the score look respectahle· 
"It's getting to he fun again," said Varner, who has been on a recent tear both offensively and defensive­ly. "It's not like a job anymore." 
Varner. a 6-6 ~cnior, scored 12 of his game-high total in the tirst half hut ~hot just -t-for-9 from the foul line. 
"I was having all kinds of problem:; from the line," ~aid Var· ner. "but I blame a lack ofconcentra­tion." 
The Irish also held Seton Hall star forward \ndre \11:Cioud to four points. wei: "dow his team-high average of '·h.<) p0ints per game. 
"'-Jotre DJmt: did a good 10h against :\kCloud." .tdded Carle:-.imo. "They plaved !lard Llefen:-.!vely and I credit th6r job :!g:tinst \lcUoud." 
..They arc :-.on.e c:xcu;.cs we could 
make hut reallv :--Jotre Dame com­
pletclv outplaved u~ 111 even· facet ot 
the garne.·­
IRISH tTE~iS -lri~h guard _loe Buc.:hanan wa~ ·r. t.t\ tlt.m clothmg for the gJTe nur;.ing the thigh con­tusion he ~utfered at l CIA He did nor practice thh week hut, accord­ing to Phelps, "was resting for the Davton game." 

The Observer Friday, March 4, 1983 -page 13 
continuedfrom page 16 
have a really tough forward who I'm 
concerned about." 
The forward that she is wary of is 
Donna Burks. The 5-11 junior has 
been scoring at an impressive 22­
point pace, good enough to put her 
among the nation's Division II 
leaders. 
"Donna Burks is aggressive and 
strong," says DiStanislao. "We're 
talking about a kid who takes a lot of 
shots and makes a lot of them. Ob­
viously, we're going to have to help 
out on her. She's the player to stop, 
but she's not their only player." 
Burks' teammate at forward, 
Sharon Curd, will require attention herself. The 5-9 sophomore is tied for third on the team in scoring with seven points a game. 
Another sophomore, Leah Abla, holds down the point guard spot. The 5-6 player sparks the Flyer of­fense with her ability to drive toward the basket. 
Abla will be joined in the back­court by Sue Youngpeter, one of the few seniors on the squad. 
Youngpeter's backup, Pam Pal­mer, has also gotten a lot of playing time this year. The 5-6 junior, al­though averaging just above three points each game, showed that she cannot be forgotten as she poured in 20 points in Dayton's game with But­
• • • Sports Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 
An abbreviated Notre Da1lle track team, led by 
co-captains Jim Moyar and Steve Dziabis, will compete in the 1C4As in Princeton, N.J., today and tomorrow. Coach joe Piane and II Irish athletes have travelled to the prestigious event, along with representatives of 110 schools from the Eastern seaboard which comprbe the conference. Dziabis, who along with Ed Juba had last weekend'~ lllini Classic off, will run in the 400 meters. Juba will compete in the 5,000 meter run. Graduate student John McCloug­han will challenge in the high hurdles. Van Pearcy, who hopes to qualify for next week's NCAAs (as does McCloughan), will run the 500 meters. Jim Tyler will try to continue his winning ways in the 1 ,000, and the distance medley team, consisting ofJohn McNelis,Jan Kania, Moyar, and Tim Cannon will also try to place. Sophomore long jumper James Patterson will be Notre Dame's lone entrant in the field events. -The Obsen•e1· 
An Tostal innertube waterpolosignups will 
be on Sunday in the Ballroom in LaFortune from 4-5 p.m. Registra­tion will be limited. There is a SS fee to enter the tournament. Each team must have a minimum ofseven players, including two girls, per team. Teams may not have more than two water polo players and one varsity athlete, or two varsity athletes. -The Obsen,er 
• • . Flyers 
ler on Wednesday. "With a 6-6 center, a powerful for­ward, an outside threat (In Palmer), and a point guard who is always a threat to drive," explains DiStanis­lao, "they have a pretty balanced of­fensive attack. But we're formulating a plan that can beat them. "This is an important game, and we haven't been home for awhile (since the Louisiana Tech game on February 1 1 )." It is a new Notre Dame team that returns home, however. After the loss to Tech, any hopes of a post­season tournament seemed like pipe dreams. However, four consecutive wins on the road has given the team something to shoot for. DiStanislao is confident that her team has the tools to beat their guests this weekend. "Our inside game is on the up­swing," she says, "and Trena Keys and Laura Dougherty and their outside shooting can help us out a great deal this weekend. _ The tipoff for Sunday's game will be 2 p.m. 
continuedfrom page 16 
here's a quick rundown.: 
• 
A total ofonly three varsity foot­ball players are allowed per team ­and only two if they play with a var­sity basketball player. 

•The 
detlnition of a varsity bas­ketball player was changed this year. A participant is considered a varsity basketball player if he/she ever played Division I basketball in the NCAA. 


For instance, John Shumate can't 

Laura Dougher~v·s outside shoting will be a k~v to the Irish women's effort against Division II power Dayton Sunday. The F~vers feature a 6-6 freshman center, Theresa Yingling. Mike Sul­livan previews the game on the back page. (Photo by Scott Bower) 
• • .·Bookstore 
-~ 
Y!·~­
play with Shari Matvey. In other ex­amples, Tony Hunter, Rod Bone and Phil Carter can start a team, but Greg Bell can't play with them in a game. Now if Bell decides to play with Karl Love, then only one other football player can be on that team. 
•The games will be played regard­less of the weather conditions. Bookstore has been played in rain, hurricanes, snow and sleet in its il­lustrious past. The tlve players who start a game must tinish it. 
•Games 
are played to 21 points; the winning margin must be at least two points. Dunking and offensive goaltending are legal, defensive goaltending is not allowed. 

•Sorry, 
but until the sectional finals, it's call your own fouls. 


If there are any quesions about eligibility or the rules please ask a member of our staff for claritlcaion -before we have to disqualify your 
..
team. Let the Games begin 

PRICES GOOD THRU SAT., MARCH 51h
;f' MillER 
/IJ29 ~~-f. 
~ CI'E ~
~ 
'\, 
i·LABATT'S CASE 1os9 
BEER OR ALE 
-~ YOU'RE WAST,_IN-G-YO_U_R-MO-N-EY-=B-U=-YI_N_GA-N-YW_H_E-RE-E-LS_E_!­
LIQUOR 
-
KINGS CElLAR VALUE 
Gill ORVODU
399 499 799 
I!IOIIL 1.0 LITER 1.75 LITER 
429
GORDON'S VODKA 75o IlL 
499
GORDON'S GIN 7!10 IlL 
799
JACK DANIELS 750 IlL WINDSOR 
1099
CANADIAN 175 LITER 
9
11 
KESSLER'S BLEND 1.75 LITU 
1099
SEVEN CROWN us tnu CASTILLO RUM 115 LITER 
J & BSCOTCH 7!10 IlL 
JIM BEAM 
WINES
1\ BLACK TOWER
QUARTS • 
LIEBFRAUMILCH 7!10 IlL
MILLER LITE ..... 8.99 
· · MANISCHEWITZ 1so IlL
BUD ............ 9.29 
it..rl' PIIlA-STRAWBERRY 2 500
OLD (Yif COCOIIETTA FOR MILWAUKEE ... 7.49 ~~ J: ZOIIIM 
499
~-r ,·~ ASTI SPUMANTE 7!10 ML 
I ' 499
TAYLOR ~ *' \ CHAMPAGNES 7!10 ML. 

399 499
LEROUX AMARETTO 7!10 ML CARLO ROSSI· LIHIS KALUHA7!10ML GALLO 
299
PREMIUMS t.5Ltnl
FRANGELICO soo ML MilAM W&llll 
ALMADEll
PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS 7!10 ML 
MOUNTAIN WINES LsLim OUCONTE CORDIALS u Ltnl 
KEG SPECIALS BUD LIGHT ... 29.99 MICHELOB ... 35.99 GENERIC ....... 24.99 OLD 
MILWAUKEE .. 26.99 

DEPOSITS10KEG S45TAP NOREN' .:IL FEE IF RETURNED W>THiN 5 DAYS PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH BEND AVE 
STORE ONLY 
1 SATURDAY OMLY I SATURDAY OMLY
r--------~--------­
I  3-5-13  I  l-5-13  
II  CASTILLO RUM  II  HEINEKEN  
I Il  399 750ML LIMIT I ru rliSOM  I I+I  13~~( LIMIT I rui'£1SOM  

r----------------­
1 FRI & SAT I SATURDAY OIILY ­
I STROH I 8:~:-13 &
I LIGHT I NUN ­
i 699 i 3~~ML -= 
I CAS( I 
The Observer Sports Special -CCHA Playoffs 

\\''ill stay at ND 
Content Chapman spurs Irish on 
By ED DOMANSKY Higgins. "He's always ready to go; says Chapman. "We realize that Sports Writer he'!. a game player you. can count on we're not going to be playing with in clutch situations." most of the guys any more, and· we 
When Brent Chapman came to "I think we complement each definitely have something to show; Notre Dame last year as a freshman, other, especially with Higgs on our we're not going to lie down and quit. he just hoped to earn a starting posi­line," Bjork says. "Brent is a fantastic It's our last chance to do something. tion in the Irish lineup. Well, he did offensive power and a very good There's really no tomorrow for us." that -playing regularly in all 40 hockey player. I'm just sorry that As the final season winds down games scoring 12 goals and collect­he's not going to continue on in and the team prepares for the ing 7 assists for 19 points. This total Division I hockey." playoffs, Chapman looks hack on led all freshman scorers and was With the University's decision to two of his most memorable events good enough for 11th place on the drop hockey as a varsity sport, Chap­from the past two years. overall team scoring list. man had to .make a decision regard­"I'll never forget last year's GLIT 
'·You always feel that you could ing his future, and despite offers (Great Lakes Invitational Tourna­have done more," said the Toronto from Providence, Wisconsin and ment)," he says. "Winning the cham­native. "But I was satisfied with last several CCHA schools he decided to pionship in front of 20,000 people year." stay at Notre Dame and pursue his and being on national TV, was really 
Looking toward his sophomore education. spectacular." season, Chapman set his goals a bit "It was a tough decision," says the What will stand out the most higher. business-finance major. "It just came though was very recent. In fact it 
"I felt that I wanted to get 30 down to the fact that I don't have any was after last weekend's final home goals," he said. "That might have aspirations for professional hockey, game against Illinois-Chicago. been a little ambitious, but I came and after looking into several "Skating around the rink with our kind ofclose." schools, I couldn't find one that sticks in the air and everybody 
In fact, Chapman came very close could compare academically. I just standing up, showing us how they 
as he scored 27 goals and added 24 couldn't justify sacrificing a Notre felt, was a real emotional time. It had assists for 51 points as the regular Dame degree for two years of hock­to bring a tear to your eye." season concluded. ey." The Irish will be riding that emo­
That put him in firm command of Coach Lefty Smith realizes that it tional high as they travel to Bowling second place on the team scoring was not an easy decision for Chap­Green to take on the first-place Fal­list and just nine points behind team man and praises him for his final cons. leader K.irt Bjork, who has 60 points choice. "When we played them at the on 28 goals and 32 assists. Fellow "He had scholarship offers from beginning of the year, they were a linemate John Higgins is third with four other schools," says Smith, "and better team and they knew it," says 37 points. for a kid to go out and make the deci­Chapman. "After beating them, I 
Even more impressive is the fact sion that he's made, with his love for think we definitely have resoect that Chapman's statistics put him in the game, really impresses me; it from them. eighth place in the CCHA scoring shows me that he is very mature and Before the season got under way, race. is able to sort out his priorities. It'll aside from setting personal goals, 
The sophomore left wing does not. be a great asset to him as he goes Chapman also set a team goal to win flaunt his achievements, however. through life." · the CCHA title. Looking ahead to the Instead he is quick to give credit to When Chapman thinks of the weekend, he says, "We had to make his linemates, each ofwhom he feels situation which made his decision the playoffs and now we're there. have played key roles in making necessary, he has several comments. We're in the last spot, but anybody their line the success it has been. "When it was first announced, I had· can win from here on -we're on 
"Higgs works in the corners and expected it," he said. "I knew the our way to that goal." 
Brent Chapman winds up in last week's Irish home hockey finale. Notre Dame's late-season run earned it a playoffspot, and the Irish are playing their best hockey ofthe year going into this weekends series with Bowling Green. Chapman's performance down the strech bas boostedND's stock, as "Chaps" baspumped in 16 points in the last six games. Ed Domansky profiles the sopho­more at left. (Photo by Paul Cifarelli) 
does most of the defensive work for day Fr. Joyce was talking that he was us; and K.irt is a lot of help to me," going to cancel the hockey program, says Chapman. "He's so fast that he's and I just seemed to take it in stride. always open, and it makes such a dif­Now, however, it has really hit me 
• • • Outlook
ference when you have someone to because things are almost over, and pass the puck to. It makes things a lot I'm starting to feel a little bitter 
easier." about it." Both Higgins and Bjork share a One positive aspect ofthe Univer­
continuedfrom page 16 
great respect for their teammate. sity's decision is seen in the unity it and 52 assists. He is joined on the "He is a highly motivated individual has strenghtened among the players. Falcon's first line by John Samanski who always gives 110 percent," says "It has brought us a lot closer," (25 goals and 27 assists for 52 
The road to Detroit 
Bowling Green (I) 

Michigan series, as the graph might indicate. 
points) and Peter Wilson ( 20-26 ­
46). 
When the Irish upset Bowling Green three weeks ago, Hills recorded just two assists all weekend. Doman's line (Rex Bel­lomy and Dave Lucia) was primarily responsible for keeping the scoring machine in check. 
"It wasn't planned that way, but it ended up that we faced them more often than not," Doman said. "We found out that whoever is on Hills must constantly be on top of him and be aware of where he is. If you let him go he can be explosive." 
The Falcons' scoring punch forces Smith to be concerned about strong goaltending. The improving perfor­mance of senior Bob McNamara, who earned CCHA Player-of-the­Week honors in the last Bowling Green series for making 95 saves and allowing only 7 goals, gives Smith and McNamara added confidence for this weekend. 
"I look at this weekend pretty much the same way as last time ex­cept I have more confidence," McNamara said. "The pressure ac­tually helps me get ready for the a game. It is easier to go into this game psyched than into a game that has no big stakes to it." 
Smith is also concerned with spe­cial situations -staying out of the penalty box, handling the shor­thanded situation, and connecting on power play opportunities. 
"We have to be physical and ag­gressive," Smith said. "But we have to remain disciplined. We can't let our emotions carry us into the penalty box." 
Although the Irish shorthanded unit has been performing well of late, opponents are averaging 29 percent power play effioency. Con­versely, Notre Dame is only connecting on 21 percent of its power-play tries. 
"We have to do well on our specialty units," Smith said. "They 
are going to be an important part of 
the series." 
Concerns aside, the Irish have some strong points of which they should be confident. The first line continues to roll on a scoring binge. John Higgins, K.irt Bjork, and Brent Chapman have accounted for 48 of the last 70 Notre Dame goals (69 percent). They are the only three players above the 30-point mark this 
season. 
Bjork, the team MVP, has racked 
up 18 goals and 18 assists in the last 
13 games. He ended up fourth in the 
CCHA scoring race. 
Bjork's late-season surge can be 
matched only by Chapman. The 
sophomore left wing has tallied 16 
points in the last 6 games including a 
hat trick in last Saturday's 8-1 victory 
over lllinois-Chicago that put him 
over the 50-point harrier. His season 
marks stand at 2...,-2<; -S2. 
The only dark spot in last weekend's sweep that might carry over into this series is an injury to freshman Mark Benning. In the third period on Saturday, Benning in­curred a gash above his left eye that took 1c; stitches. TrainerJohn Whit­mer said that the stitches will not be removed before tonight's action, but they should not hamper the defen­seman's play. 
Coming off the injurt·d list is Tim 
Reilly, who saw action this past 
weekend after being out with knee 
complications. Reilly and three 
other extra players -John Keating, 
Greg Duncan, and Tom Parent ­
will be travelling with the team to 
Bowling Green, with the possibility 
ofseeing ice time. 
According to McNamara, Bowling 
Green, despite whatever advantage 
it may carry into this series, is not as 
invincible as most people think. 
"The team is really looking for­
ward to this weekend," he said. 
"They (Falcons) won'l walk away 
with it. We're going to surprise a lot 
ofpeople." 
'f 
~ 
~IheO~~er~===================================== 
Friday, March 4, 1983 -page 15
Weekend 
Berke Breathed
Bloom County 





The Daily Crossword 
© 1983 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


Photius 
ACROSS 27 Slippery 1 1250, to one Ovid 28 Italian 
5 Santa -type of 46A 10 Mimicked 31 Nut 14 Lily plant 34 Bone cavity 15 David the 35 Cut off 
actor 36 Latin abbr. 16 Mouse's 37 "-Life Is kin. It Anyway?" 17 Italian 38 African 
type of 46A antelope 19 Surface 39 Bleating 20 "-a date!" one 21 Libidinous 40 Take to 
look task 22 Of a fast 41 Portals time 42 English 24 Wisconsin type of 46A type of 46A 44 Timid 26 Arranges 45 Humid 
Thursday's Solution 
3/4/83 
Campus 
t 
Friday, March 4 
•:u
5 p.m. -Workshop, "Interdependence of Regional, National, and International Policy Issues," Richard Bartel, :B1 O'Shaughne~.sy Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Lecture, "Electron Transfer in Organic ~olecules.". Pr->f. Gerhard L. Closs, 123 NSH 

•5:1 
5 p.m. -Mass and Supper ' Bulla Shed, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7 
and 10:15 p.~. -Film, "Dr. Zhivago,", Engineering Auditorium. Sponsored by l;'ilm Club, S1 

•':1 
5 p.m.-Stations of the Cross, Fr. Daniel R. Jenky, Sacred Hearr Church 

•':30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Circle of Deceit," Annenberg Auditorium, S2 

•8 
p.m. -ND%SMC Theatre Production, "Marathon '33," Washington Hall, S3 adults, S2.50 students 

•s 
p.m. -1983 NAZZ Music Competition, at the NAZZ 

•8:30 
p.m. -Concert, Valparaiso University COn· cert Choir, Sacred Heart Church 

•9 
p.m.-Dance, Lafortune Ballroom, Sponsored 


by Progressive Music Club Saturday, March 5 
•12 
p.m. -Bus Trip to Chicago, To see Amadeus, Leaves from Library Circle, Sponsored by Student Union, S35 for transportation and ticket 

•7 
and 10:15 p.m. Film, "Dr. Zhivago," Engineer· ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, S 1 

•8 
p.m. -ND%SMC Theatre Production, "Marathon '33," Washington Hall, 53 adults, 52.50 students 

•s 
p.m. -BCAF Fashion Show, Monogram Room,ACC 

•s 
p.m. -NAZZ, "NAZZ Music Competition Win· 


ners Night," Sunday, March 6 
•2 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs. Dayton, ACC Arena 

•4 
p.m. -Concert, Edgar Muenzer, William Cerny, Anneberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Neither Heroes N01" Clowns," Fr. John Fitzgerald, C.S.C., Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Sophomore Class 


The Far Side 

Junior Class of Notre Dame & St. Mary's, Flanner, Lyons, PW, Stanford, Pangborn, and Holy Cross in cooperation with Howard Hall 
? 
Presents A Chance to Dance 
BEACH PARTY! $1 
Friday March 4 9:30 · 1:30 Chautauqua LaFortune Ballroom Door Prises & Refreshments ,._-..ND · SMC ID REQUIRED!! 
46 Dairy products 50 Expose 
a sham 52 Oil land 53 Table scrap 54 God of war 55 Swiss type 
of46A 58 Terrible 59 Snared 60 Focal 
points 61 Does a Duse 62 Fresh 63 Nick and 
Nora's terrier 
DOWN 1 Prestidigi· 
tation 2 Fabric 3 Napoleon's 
birthplace, to Napoleon 4 Relay 
segment 5 Toughen 6 Noted 
criminal lawyer 7 Actor 
Novello 8 -Aviv 9 Parallel 
10 Onward: lt. 11 French type of46A 
12 Robt.­13 Campus 
official 18 Of yore 23 Units of 
work 25 Transaction 26 Awareness 28 -Janeiro 29 Swelling 30 Wagner 
work 
31 Forcible impact: abbr. 
32 Arctic base 33 French type 
of46A 34 Garment 37 Muttonchops 38 Singer 
Ballard 40 Cleft site 41 Treaty city 43 Tipplers 44 Sterne's 
Tristram 46 Indians 47 One-man 
stints 48 Upright 49 Narrow 
groove 50 Babe's pop 51 Sevareid 52 Gremlins 56 Extinct 
bird 57-king 
tJ"ior.Bar 
Be sure to make it out 
for the Friday Nite 
Special 

Men's basketball 
Varner sparks Irish romp over Hall 
Bill Varner rolls in two ofhisgame-high 18points in last night's 59-40 win over Seton Hall in the ACC. Varner also grabbed 11 boardsagainstthePirates. WillHare has the details atright. (Photo by PeteLaches) 
Women,s basketball 
Dayton game,key to post-season 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The countdown is two. 
There remain just a pair of games 
left in the Notre Dame women's bas­
ketball team's regular season. The 
outcome of these games -against 
Dayton on Sunday and Indiana on 
Wednesday will determine 
whether the season will last beyond 
next week. 
Apair ofNotre Dame wins will vir­
tually ensure the team a place in the 
Women's NIT at Amarillo, Texas, 
and just may land it in the NCAA 
Tournament which begins during 
break. A loss would, most likely, 
send the players home for break. 
Because each game means so 
much, it is understandable that .Coach Mary DiStanislao is taking the games one at a time. Right now, she has a lot on her mind -namely, the 
Dayton Flyers. 
Coach linda Makowski's squad is currently 18-8 and ranked 11th in the most recent Division II poll. However, before you disregard the Flyers because they are only in Divi­sion II, keep in mind that it is a squad comprised mostly of Division I players -just not enough who are on scholarships to put the program in Division I. 
"Dayton is a very good team," warns DiStanislao. "People may balk at the fact that they're Division II, but, at this point, they have a scholarship limitation ofseven. 
"They're a Top 10 Division II team with Divsion I players. And they've always had a tradition of being real strong and playing a predominately Division I schedule. They are never a team to be contended with as a divi­sion below us." 
This year's Dayton team has 
ByWILLHARE 
Sports Writer 
No, it was not a nail-biting, seat­squirming, cliff-hanger, but at least it was a victory. 
Bill Varner scored 18 points and grabbed 11 rebounds while John Paxson added 16 as Notre Dame mauled Seton Hall 59-40 last night at the ACC. 
The win boosts the Irish record to 17-9, with just two regular season games remaining. Notre Dame hosts midwest independent Dayton in a crucial game Monday and then closes the campaign against North­ern Iowa. 
Entering the contest, Notre Dame was ranked the fifth best team in the nation in scoring defense and again played like it. The visiting Pirates were utterly confused on offense in the first half, shooting a staggering 28 percent and scoring a meager 1 1 points compared to Notre Dame's 33. 
Seton Hall, concluding their 
For icers, one more dance ­
ByJANE HEALEY 
Sports Writer 
BOWLING GREEN, Ohio -The question on the mind ofhockey fans at Notre Dame is "Can the Irish do it again?" 
Notre Dame arrives here today to take on Bowling Green, the CCHA's regular-season champion, in the first round ofthe league playoffs. 
Bowling Green came to the ACC three short weeks ago confident of defeating an Irish team that they had adeptly handled earlier in the year. But, Notre Dame had improved and matured since then and surprised the-Falcons, tagging them with a 4-4 tie and a 5-3 defeat. 
Nationally fourth-ranked Bowling Green will keep that weekend in mind, as well as last year's first playoffgame. The Irish upset the Fal­cons, 8-5, in that contest. 
Coach Lefty Smith is aware that these memories will be fresh in the horne team's recollection. 
"We are going to run into a fired­up Bowling Green team," he said. "We are playing a fine team -a team that beat us badly earlier and we can't forget that." 
~ Smith is also concerned about the emotional state of his own team. "How many times can we go to 
the well psychologically ?" he asked. 
"You wonder when we will get to 
the point when the emotion won't 
be there." 
Notre Dame has been riding a wave of high spirit ever since the decision to downgrade the hockey program was made. That emotion has provided the Irish with strong motivation to win and keep playing. They have a 7-2-1 record since the Athletic Department's announce­ment. 
Captain Mark Doman isn't as con­cerned as Smith about the upkeep of the team's morale. 
"I think that everyone is really pumped," Dornan said. "We've found out in tbe last five weeks what it takes to win and and what style of play is successful." 
The improvement is centered around four areas essential to a vic­tory over Bowling Green. 
"We must be strong on our forechecking," Smith said. "They (Falcons) have that excellent scoring ability.' 
Smith is refering to the powerful Bowling Green offense that has scored 200 goals in 32 games. All· American Brian Hills leads the Fal­cons, and the CCHA with 36 goals 
See OUTLOOK, page 14 
rebounded well from a dismal 1 0-1 7 
record last year, its first losing 
record in seven years. The ex­
perience seems to have helped and 
the return of four starters did not 
hurt either. 
Still, the first thing that one notices about this Flyer squad is a newcomer, freshman Theresa Yin­gling. The 6-6 center is the tallest player that the Irish have faced this year. She has used her height to an advantage as she has averaged 13 points and 8 rebounds a game. Nevertheless, DiStanislao feels that her team, whose tallest player is 6-1, should be able to keep the freshman offthe boards. 
"Shari ( Matvey) and Carrie (Bates) should be able to handle her," says DiStanislao, "but they 
See FLYERS, page 13 
regular season with a 5-22 slate un­der first-year coach P. J. Carlesimo, now moves on to the Big East Con­ference Tournament to be played March 9-12 in New York. A sickened Carlesimo called the performance "very embarassing." 
"We had a total breakdown in the first half," added Carlesimo. "We played very hard tonight and all year but I don't think tonight was in­dicative ofour play." 
"We didn't get ready for Notre Dame's defense." 
Notre Dame nearly broke the ACC record for fewest points allowed in a game but a late Pirate basket tied the mark of 40 points set by Lafayette earlier this season. 
The Irish led 23-11 with 4:43 remaining in the first halfwhen they pulled away for good. Varner scored on successive layups including an off-balance twisting layup on which he was fouled. 
Tough inside play by Tim 
See ROMP, page 12 
Bookstore XII nears; teams sign up Sunday 
By RICH O'CONNOR to attend the Senior Formal. 
Associate Buokstore Commissioner In 1972, when Fritz Hoefer 
dreamed up the idea for this ex­
When it's 60 degrees in March at travaganza, no one ever thought it 
Notre Dame, there is only one con­would become this popular. The 
clusion that can be reached. original version run by Vince 
Someone on the Bookstore Basket­Meconi had 53 teams and 
ball staff placed their order for good registration went for days just to fill 
weather alittle early. that. 
Every so often our order gets lost Since then, the tournament has 
in the mail -like last year, when we grown almost exponentially. By 
got seven inches of snow for the 1978, Bookstore had become so 
opening round. But play went on prominent that Sports Illustrated 
and Maintenance had the courts featured the tournament, ~nd the 
plowed the next day -before they manhole cover behind the 
plowed the staff lot at Stepan. bookstore. Two years ago, the In 
Bookstore rates during April. Your Face Basketball Book -a 
Hoping to eclipse last year's total rating guide of playground basket­
of 454 participating teams -which ball in the United States -included 
made Bookstore XI the largest Notre Dame, with a warning to look 
single-elimination basketball out for the manhole cover. tournament in the world -the ex­This year's staff -Commissioner ecutive committee will hold Dave Dziedzic, Assistant Commis­registration tor this year's classic in sioners Ann Hanson on the South the Great Hall of O'Shag from 3-5 Quad Louise Mudd working on the 
p.m. on Sunday. Enter via the main North Quad, Special Assistant to the doors which face the South Quad. Commissioner Skip Desjardin, 
The tournament is open to all Publicity Commissioner Ryan Ver graduate and undergraduate stu­Berkmoes, Assistant Commissioner dents, faculty and staff of Notre Tim Healy, the referees and myself Dame and Saint Mary's. To register, -are looking forward to making someone must bring their team's this the best tournament ever. 
name to O'Shag on Sunday with a Because there has been some con­registration fee of $4, the names of fusion regarding the rules this year, any varsity football players and the 
See BOOKSTORE, page 13number of team members planning 
the CCHA playoffs 
remember ND's upset tie and win at the ACC 1st 
month. jane Healey previews the series at left. (Photo by Paul Cijarelli) 


