--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Thanks for the memory -page 8 

VOL XVIII, NO. 54 till" independent ~tudent new~paper st:rvmg notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 198.3 

Where to begin? 
Salad? Fried chicken? Hungarian noodle bake? Pavlov's dog 
never bad these problems. junior Rich Cotter faces the eternal 
dilemna at the South Dining Hallyesterday -whatfirst? 


Naval attache killed by terrorist in Athens 
Council to discuss exam code 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
Managing Editor 
A report concerning proposed major revisions of the University academic code regarding final ex­ams will be discussed at today's meeting ofthe Academic Council. 
The suggestions contained in the report include the following: 
•The 
final exam would be worth not less than one-third and not more 1han two-thirds of a student's final grade for the course. 

•Graduating 
seniors would no lon­ger be exempted from final exams if they earned a "B" grade or higher during the semester. 

•The 
current University policy that "a two-hour final examination must be given at the time and place stip­ulated in the official examination schedule" would be enforced. 


Members of the committee did not know whether they would be 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Greece-A gunman on a motorcycle fired seven bullets into the car of a U.S. naval military at­tache Tuesday, killing the officer and hi'i Greek civilian driver. 
Police said the killer and his ac­complice who was driving the motorcycle escaped down a sidestreet ofsuburban north Athens after the morning rush-hour attack, which occurred as the car was stopped for a red light. 
Capt. George Tsantes, 53, serving with the Joint U.S. military Advisory Group, was hit by at least four bul­lets and died at the scene, police said. His driver died in a hospital. 
A person who called an Athens newspaper said the "November IT' terrorist group was responsible for the murders. 
That is the same group that claimed responsility for the killingof the U.S. cia station chief in Greece, Richard Welch, who was slain by masked gunmen outsie his home on 
Christmas Day I975. 
A police spokesman said the anonymous caller telephoned the left-wing newspaper Eleftherotypia and said the terrorists would "explain the reasons for killing Tsantes in a file to be sent to Greek 
newspapers." 
"November IT' is named for the 
date in 1973 that a student revolt 
was crushed by the military dictator­
ship then in power. The last acts at­
tributed to the group were the 
killings of two right-wing police of­ficers in 1976 and 1980. There have been no arrests for any of the mur­ders. 
Greece's Socialist government is marking the lOth anniversary ofthe student rebellion, which un­dermined the military regime, with celebrations throughout this week. 
"There was blood everywhere inside the car. We hauled them out of the car but there was nothing we could do for the American," said At­hens police officer Athanasios Zafirakis. 
"A bullet below the heart probab­ly killed him instantly," Coroner Haralambos Stamoulis said. "He also was wounded in the shoulder and abdomen." 
The car's driver, Nikos Valoutsos, 

62, died later in a hospital of bullet 
wounds in the chest, pole said. 

The U.S. naval officer, an American of Greek descent posted to Athens last spring, was driving to his U.S. embassy office in downtown Athens from his home in the north­ern suburb of Kifissa, U.S. embassy spokesman Peter Synodis said. 
Tsantes was from New York City, but had been posted in Washington earlier and had a home in Virginia Beach, Va, the embassy said 
Witnesses said two men on a light­blue motorscooter, both wearing crash-helmets and dark jackets, cruised up alongside Tsantes' official black limousine when it stopped at a red light three miles from the em­bassy. 

. . ..•·••.• , 
-·-'"'--~ 

........... 

By MIKE Mll.LEN 
News Staff 
Aside from the normal parties which accompany a typical home football game, the senior class can look forward to something else this weekend: the Third Annual Block Party. 

Brought about as a response to the ill-fated "Senior Death March," the Block Party has become a Notre Dame tradition to commemorate the last home game of the season. It is a huge festival designed to bring together students with members of the Northeast Neighborhood, where about one-third ofthe· seniors live. 
The event, scheduled for this Friday from 3:30 to 6:30 in the Notre Dame ACC, will include copius amounts of food, beverages, and en­tertainment for the whole family. Everything from the hot-dogs and hamburgers to the fifty kegs of beer 
wiU be served at cost. 

Accordingly, the event is not ex­pected to generate any sort ofprofit. ·.If it does, Bill Kirk, treasurer of the 
~ 
........................ . 

asked to vote on the proposed revi­sions at today's meeting. "The his­tory of the organization is that they move pretty quickly," said Thomas Swartz, professor of economics and a member ofthe committee. 
If passed, the revisions would go into effect for the spring 19H4 semester. 
Swartz told an Obsen•er reporter that senior exemptions are "pretty hard to justify." There is a "low prob­ability that the Academic Commis­sion would vote to retain" the exemptions, he felt. 
The report is the work of a six­member faculty committee formed in March by University Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
The members of the committee 

recommend that "the appropriate 
portions of the academic guide, 
which is the responsibility ofthe Ad­
ministration, be brought into con­
formity with these changes and 
suggest that the second section of this committee report might be adapted for inclusion therein," according to the report. 
Altering the existing exam policy was mentioned in a spring meeting of the council, according to several members, hut today's meeting will be the first time it is officially dis­cussed. 
Copies of the proposal and the meeting agenda were sent to coun­cil members on October 26. 
"There will be a very rigid re­quirement that all courses will have final exams." said one of the elected members of the council. Philip Gleason. professor of history. ''I'm not sympathetic to it." 
"It's somewhat controversial," 

according to council member John 
Borkowski, professor ofpsychology. 
He questioned making the exam 
see EXAMS, page S 


ND alcohol commission considers complete restriction of alcohol use 
ByJOHN MENNEIL hours but has never talked about News Staff what the policy should be. The com­mission has written 7SO letters to 
The Notre Dame campus may go parents and is now reading faculty dry, according to Father William questionnaires to discern faculty Beauchamp, chairman ofthe Univer­

Third annual block party planned 

senior class, stated that "the North­east Neighborhood will get any ex­tra (money), but it is not a fundraiser." 
Aside from the food, Chairmen Debbie Tomkowitz and Cindy Har­din have also made it clear that it is a family event: the younger set wiU be treated to clowns, balloons, and public ice-skating. 
literally thousands ofpeople have been invited, including all of the seniors, fu.culty, and administration. Ninety-one blocks ofresidents were also given invitations. As if this weren't enough, numerous city offi­cials will be present, including South Bend Mayor Roger Parent, who has showed his support for the party by contributing $100.00 to help defray 
expenses. Richard Hill, City Attor­ney, voiced that he was "100/ sup­portive" and would in fact "like to work together on other projects" with the Notre Dame community. 
There is a tri-purpose philosophy behind the Block Party. Initially, Kirk said it is done with the senior in mind, what with_ • numer_oJ.15 
of the social life. Nothing is planned without alcohol." Beauchamp said. "What would social life become? Would it move off campus? Would everything happen behind dosed 
doors?" 
The commission welcomes the 

opportunity to visit residence halls 
according to Beauchamp. "We 
welcome that type of input." 
Students' apparent lack of con­

cern over the issue surprises him. 
"Students have not taken the matter 
seriously except for a fear that a 
privilege might be taken away," he 
said. 
One reason for the concern is the 

issue of the Indiana drinking age of 
21. This presents certain liabilities to the school according to Beauc­hamp. 
"There is no particular deadline." he said ofth t e committee'sschedule. "If there will be any major changes students will know before they go home for the summer." 
sity Commission on the Responsible Use ofAlcohol. 
"Eliminating or severely restrict­ing the use of alcohol is a serious possibility," Beauchamp said in an interview Sunday. 
Beauchamp, assistant to Univer­sity Executive Vice President Father Edmund Joyce, said completely restricting the use ofalcohol would be the simplest solution to the problem of alcohol abuse but en­forcement would be difficult. 
"I stiU think enforcement could be accomplished. The first few years would be the worst," he said. 
The commission was formed to establish an alcohol policy for the University. Beauchamp said the commission has met for several 
Fr. William Beauchamp 

opinion. 
Beauchamp is uncertain about the consequences of banning the use of alcohol. "Alcohol is a central aspect "refreshments" and quality food at a reasonable price. 
Just as importantly, he added that it is designed to "enhance the sense of community" in the neighbor­hood; it will prove to be a good op­portunity to meet !i(.lme neighborhood residents. 
Finally, he stressed that it will help Notre Dame itself: "we want to have some Administration and Faculty there with whom the seniors can't usually mingle." 
Patrick Barry. who is the senior class secretary, agreed and added that in essence, "it is just a big party." Kirk said that it is akin to a "Memorial Day Block Partv," and emphasized one very important facet of the event: it is a " 'health}' kind of wild vs. a 'let's destroy' kind ofwild." He also noted that the com­mittee asked local bars to close from 6 to 8p.m. 
Kirk expects at least three-fourths of the senior class to attend, and summed up by saying that it is a "great way to start the last home 
. .footballgame.:' •••••.••••....• 
The Observer Wednesday, November 16, 1983 -page 2 

AP Photo File -Grenada


:In Brief · 

Jinl Fiedor, a 1982 graduate of Notre: Dame:, 
died early Saturday. Fc:idor suffered a blow to his head and died in his skt·p hour~ later. Fc:idor, a native: of Sht·boygan, Wise., was an t·ngint·c:ring major and a rt·sidc:nt ofGrace: Hall. Fc:idor was president of the: Rowing Club at Notre Dame:. He was living in Indianapolis. Tht· funcral will be: today in Sheboygan. -The Obsen•er 

Barclay's Meat and Produce Rc:sraur;ml, S28SS 
ll.S..~.~ N., wa~ robbed by a lone gunman yesterday morning. Police: ~aid rR·arly S.~.000 was stolen. County police: Det. Cpl. john Pav­kkovich said the: rt·staurant manager was pouring cofti:c: wht·n she llt'ard a gun~hot hc:hind l•c:r. The manager turned and saw a man armnl with a handgun. lie was wearing a hc:ige zippt·r jacket, hlue p:aid ~hirt and hlue jean~. Tht· man apparently entered the res­taurant. which had not opent·d li1r hu~inc:ss, through the rear door. Pavkkovidr ~aid the manager and the rohhc:r went to the office area where ~ht· gave him three or t<mr bag~ of money. While en route to till' ollict· art·a. the: man lirnltwo more shots. police said, hut no one wa., hun. -The rJhsen•t•r 
ABC-1V trucks will he: arriving latt· Wednesday in prt·paration l<1r the: regional broadcast of Saturday's football game: against Air Force:. The: Notrt· Dame: Security lkpartment has asked that all studt·nt~ with cars parked in the art·a of the stadium-e~;pe­cially thosc: on the: west side: of the building-move tht·m to Green l'idd hy Wednesday night. -The Obsen•er 

Of Interest 

Every official Notre Daole shirt,sweatshin, 
cap or tic: must tx: markeu:d by Champion Products Inc. james Quinn awees; Charles McManis doesn't. The two will debate the is.o;ue tonight at 6:1 5 during the annual spons and entenainment law forum, sponsored by the Notre Dame law SchooL McManis, a law profc:s.o;or al Wa.'ihington llnversity in St. Louis, will argue for com· petition of trademarks and copyrights. Quinn, a New York attorney who counsels major professional spons associations, will present tht• University position. The debate will be in the Library Auditorium. -The Obseno,er 
Marshall Scott will perform works of Henry 
Pun,:ell. Haydn. Bloch and Ted Hansen during a Notre Dame Depart­mt·nt of Music fat·ulty recital at 7:30 p.m. today in the Annenberg Auditorium ofthe Snite Muscum ofArt. The trumpet instructor will also pt:rform works with a t>ra.o;s quintet. Scott received his master's dc:grec: in music ar Notrc: Dame after receiving a bachelor's degree in music at Ohio I :niversity. lie performs with the Midwest Pops and otht·r art·a groups. -The ObsertJer 
"IfYou love lbis Planet," a 3o minute film 
produced t>y anti-nuclear activist Dr. Helen Caldicott, will be shown in l.aFonune Lillk Theatre at 6:;\0 tonight and tomorrow night. The controversial Canadian film, which won an Academy Award in April li1r ht·st short suhjet'l, was labded "political propoganda" by the Justice Department. a decision that recently was overturned by Judgt· Paul A. Ramira of Sacrc:mento, Calif Father Theodore Hes­hurgh. llnivl'fsity president, purchased the film for use in the Nudc:ar Dikmna Courst·. -The Obsen•er 

Advance registration for Saint Mary's sophomores 
and freshmnr i~ Imlay from .f-(> p.m. in Angda Athktic Facility at ~aint Mary's. Rt·gistration li1r sophomores 11l'gins at 4 p.m. and fresh­
men rc:gristration hegins at ';p.m. Student~ will he admitted to the: registration area in tc:n-minute intervals in varying alphabetic set g­nwnts an·ording to last names. Students should call the: rt·gistrar's oftkc at Saint Mary's for specific times. -Tbe OfJSt'rl'l"l' 

A bread and soup lunch will be ofti:red tomor­
row from I I :50 to I:.~0 p.m. by thc: Centl'f for Social Concerns in the center's u1fttT houM·. 'I he mt·al is a "lkndit Lunch for St. Augustim·'s," anti tht· money raisnl wilt hc: given to St. Augustine's Soup Kitcht·n in South Bend. The soup kitchen will use the funds to buy Thanksgiving meal~ l()r the poor in St. Augustine's Parish. The hcndit lunch wilt feature a typical soup kitchc:n menu -beef vegt·tahk soup. hrc:ad. and a choicc: of colti..T or tea. A donation of thrt•t· dollars will he requt·stt·d. -7be 0/Jserz•er 
-~weather· 
Sixty percent chance of snow showers today. 
Windy and cold with high in upper 50s. Cloudy and cold tonight with a chance of flurries. Low in upper 20s to low 30s. Mostly sunny and warmer tomorrow with high in mid 40s. 
Castros observe 

•-~~ Cuban President Fidel Castro(left( and his brother Raul, chief ofthe Cuban Armed Forces, stand at attention as the bodies of24 Cubans who died during the invasion ofGrenada are taken from an airplane. The planes arrived at Havana's Marti Airport 
II 

Pre-invasion incident 
This photo, made available earlier this week, shows civilia with their hands raised fleeing Fort Rupert as Soviet tanks approach. The attack on the fort Oct. 191ed to the execution ofPrime Minister M 
Grenadians line up to applyfor 
work at the government's offices 
in St. George's. Estimates indicate 
that 30-40 percent ofthe IIXi'Dutat,ron is out ofwork. 
~The_Ohs.erYer_ 
Composition Editor........................ Tro)' Ill Composition Assistant...... Sick, sick, sick 
1)1JeS<•trers...................... Mkhdlc & lklcn Neu·s Edilt1r........................ ............ Sht,~un CofJ)' Editor............................. Kevin Bingc:r .\ports C"fJ.J' Editor ....................).!'. lkaky Featun•s CoPl' l:'ditur .............]t·rry Young ND lh~J' Editor........................ Barh Stl'vc:ns .\MC /Ja)• Edit"r.. ...Jolly Radlc:r Ad 1Jesig11.............................. .... Bill O'Bric:n PhtJ/tiJ!.rapher ............................ <:an,l Cialc:s Gtwst.·1ppearalln•s .. Princt·:o.s. (:Jevdand 
St. Folk~. Sun~hinl', Bryan St. Manor. High? Kt:\'in (''But Wl' u·ere lu·rc.: until .~::~0 a.m. yt:sll.·rllay. The.: f.ll.·t that wt· ditln't gt:t hert: until .~:00 a.m. is ir· rdt•\'l·nt") \'( illi;tm~ and the.· rl'M of thl· Morris~l'~ Ba."h gang ( "llc:y Da\'t'! l.t't's ~o to Shirlc:y's!") 
')11\'lttsk Alice u•ben sbe's ten feet tall" 
~ 
\d 
The Ob1erver (USPS 598 920) is published Monday through Fr>day and on home football Saturdays. except durmg exam and vacat1on per>ods The Ou~erver IS published by the students of Notre Dame and Samt Marys College. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $25 per year ($ 1 5 per semester) by wntmg The Obeerver. P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame. tnd1ana 46556. 
The ObMrver 1s a member of 
The Auocl.ted Pre... All 
reproduction r>ghts are reserved 

r----------------~
I 
I 
I1 
~ 

INfLATION I 
GOTYOUI I BLOOD I BOILING? I 
We can help relieve I some of that pressure! 1 

I HOW?we will pay you 
I I 
I 
I
1
I I I 
~ 
I
1 I 
I I
I 

up to $16 CASH Per week for your time. I 
It'' e"Y J"'t come io too"' oew modem faoUily •ela> iooomfy 
I 
reclining chairs while you dol')ate LIFE-GIVING PLASMA. 
You will earn $7 for your first plasma donation and $9 for your 
II 

second donation within the same week...AND we will give you a free physical exam and over $60 worth of free lab tests. 
I PLUS I We Will Give You an Additional I 




$41.~.}~.~P~~!~,?.ft:~,:~,:~.:~~'~ you. ~ 
For more information call ~~ 
234·601 0 or come by515 Lincolnway West 
Bring your I. D. 
I 
AMERICAN PLASMA Sl:TEMS I 
A National Concern Dedicated to Extending the Lives of Others 
I 
Tues and Sat 8am-5pm 
1 
Wed and Fri 9am-5pm 
.I 

·---------------­
The Observer Wednesday, November 16, 1983-page 3 


U.S. foreign policy said to be 'epic' failure 
By BILL KRAIS almost certain to harm ourselves." News Staff U.S. policy has had to take two tracks in Nicaragua and El Salvador; 
"U.S. foreign policy in Central military and diplomatic, because of America is a failure of epic propor­this failure. according to Bennett. He tions," according to Dr. Douglas pointed out that the U.S. didn't even Bennett, director of the Institute of use diplomacy in Grenada. Public Policy Studies at Temple Uni­"No diplomatic track was used. versity in Philadelphia, who the U.S. refused to talk to Bishop addressed the Graduate Latin when he was in the U.S." American Students' Association. Bennett said the invasion in the 
"The roots of the failure are name of democracy was hypocriti­deeper than Ronald Reagan," said cal. There was "little or no consulta­Bennett, who stated that the U.S. has tion of Congress and no freedom of failed to realize its interests in Latin the press," he said. "We taught a America and that U.S. efforts would peculiar lesson and sent a lack of continue to fail for this reason. respect to institutions ofdemocracy 
Bennett stated that the United back home. These lessons create the States' primary interest was to keep illusion ofsuccess likely to continue leftist governments out of Latin down the military road." American for fear that they will ally Bennett believes that U.S. support with the Soviets. Union and that the of the contras will increase but that only way to achieve this goal is there will not be an invasion for through military intervention. three reasons: the Defense Depart­
"Grenada presents the illusion of ment would not stand for it, the U.S. success," said Bennett. "What was in gets what it wants from Nicaragua by such significant jeopardy that we pressure anyway, and the elections would risk condemnation of three­are getting closer. Bennett also 
This is one ofthe Esmark collection ofCurrier 
fourths of the world and European denied that the U.S. invaded 
and Ives lithographs currently on display at the 
support?" Bennett pointed out that Grenada to protect the medical stu­
Snite Museum ofArt. The Esmark collection 

there was no evidence in Grenada dents. He pointed out that "no nor­that the weapons found were to be mal channels to get the students out used for an "external movement." were used." 
"By invading Grenada," Bennett According to Bennett, "two 

Notre Dame Coloring Book sales 
said, "we ratified the Brezhnev outcomes of our invasion will be doctrine. We confirm the European increasing polarization in Nicaragua view of a blind, out-of-control and increasing bloodshed in 
to commence this weekend 
criminal, certain to harm others and Nicaragua" 
By KEITH E. HARRISON JR. Isley was helped on the project by at lunch in the dining halls. and will 'VewsStaff Margaret Derwent and Curtis continue at dinner. The sale will 
,. 

Cormane. Six other architecture stu­conclude Saturday morning before I 
You've seen Notre Dame pencils, dents also assisted Isley. the Air Force game. at the Ar­
Erratum 
I,_

pens and notebooks, so why not a "Essentially the book is geared chitecture Novelty booth in the An ad in Monday'sObseroer in­
Notre Dame coloring book? That's toward the children of the alumni South Quad. correctly stated the place of the 
what architecture student Scott Is­that come h~re for football The price of the 24 page Notre upcoming reception for Michael 
ley thought as he coordinated the weekends," Derwent said. "But Dame Coloring Book is S_'l. 
P. EspositoJr., executive vice­
Notre Dame Coloring Book. we've added a few inside jokes for "There is a possibility that the president and controller of the 
"We wanted a fund raiser that was students, as well. We have some Bookstore will carry the hook, but Chase Manhattan Bank. The 
both marketable as well as repre­drawings of alumni in plaid pants that probably depends on how well reception will be held on 
sentative of the architecture depart­and others of students running to it sells this weekend," !sky said. November 16 from 6 to 8p.m. in 
ment," Isley said. "So we chose a and from the dinng halls." 
Isley, Derwent, and Cormane, put the Alumni Room of the Morris 
coloring book that features the The 2000 copies of the Notre most of the book together in five !nn. 
buildings of the Notre Dame Dame Coloring Book will be sold days during October break. "We had campus." this weekend. The sale starts Friday a competition to determine the 


PIZZA PRICE ROLLBACK! 
OUR NEW EVERYDAY LOW PRICE 
16" LARGE....  I  • I  • $6119  
F.xtra Toppings S1.00 ea  
14" MEDIUM.. I  ••  I  $5124  



A Q c::~::·;~~ a
All Pizzas Have 


John Underwood: Sports Illustrated's Conscience 
The decline of multi-million dollar sports business and the crisis in football 
"Big business ethics and the war ethics of coaches/players are producing a climate of permissiveness that is running football" 
Thursday Nov 17 8 pm, Lib. Aud. Sponsored by Student Union Academic Comm. 
::>tudents are invited to submit in 25 words or less why they would like to dine with Mr. Underwood at a pre-lecture dinner. Submit name, phone number to 2nd floor of LaFortune--Academic Commission 
cover of the book. which I won," Derwent said. "From there most of the work involved getting suitable slides and drawings together. and then transferring them to ink boards," she said. 
The sale of the hook is a fund raiser for the Nolre Dame Associatl· Student Chapter ofthe American Ar­chitects Institute. Profits from the sale of the book will be used to fund architecture lectures and seminars throughout the year. 

r-----------------­
LEE'S RIBS 
Buy two regular dinners and receive $2 off with this coupon. 
Expires 11-18-83 
-------------------1 


KITCHEN GOTHIC, A PLAY BY JULIE JENSEN NOVEMBER ·17, 18 & 19 a:oo PM M. SAINT MARY'S LITTLE THEATRE $1.00 
,.-1-I ... IJ.!, (I 1.~1.t •' '· • 1, I •1.•;,•· <!',.I ''I' 

.. ' I~' J ' tJJ' I ' ,-.. . -' -. 
~ .......'"-.,........._-____..~.-.-•••-.-.-.-...... , ..... "'-14 tl;
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i 
'-------------------·------------.-------•• ·-____J 
j 
j 
, ,,.. ·.. ....~ .. 

The Observer Wednesday, November 16, 1983-page 4 
--It'­




Bishops urge support for pastoral letter 
Assoclat t~d Press 
WASHINGTON -Several U.S. 

hishops, including a Lafayettt:, Ind., 
hishop. said yesterday that Roman 
Catholk Church lc:aders should do 
more to rally support for their pas­
toral knt·r t·ondemning nuclear 
war. 
One suggestion was to encourage 

Roman Catholks to watch the 
tdcvision program "The Da:· After" 
next Sunday and tht·n huild st"rmons 
around tht" program's tht"mt" -tht" 
aftt·rmath ofa nm:kar war. 
Bishop (it"orgt" Fulcher of l.afavt·lte said hl" likt"d a proposal to fot·us on tht" already widely puhlicizt"d AUC program -evt"n though ht" said ht" understood the program had a rather despairing conclusion. 
·•wt" might say to our pt"ople to watch that and rt"spond to it in terms of the pt·ace pastoral because the pastoral is a me!>sagt· of hope," Ful­cher said. 
Another hishop said the church leadns should monitor rekvant ac­tions or non-actions hy tht" l inited States and other nations, speaking out wht·n appropriate. 
No firm new policy was adopted. 

The pastoral lettt"r rn·eived wide puhlicity when tht· National Con­ti.·rentT of Catholic Bishops gave it all-hut-final approval one year ago over tht· strong ohjt·ctions of rhe Reagan administration. But since then it has faded from the headlines. 
The letter supported a freeze on the production of nuclear weapons and condemned the threat of their use (deterrence) if aimed at civilian populations. 
The church leaders were told Tuesday hy Uishop Thomas Connol­ly of Uaker, Ore., that if the matter is nor pursued further, there is a dan­ger government leaders will think of them as "only 300 votes" among mil­lions. 
"If we don'r raise grassroots sup­port, then all we have done with the pastoral may end up only being an affront to tht" cause of peace. We have to put our shoulders to the wheel and work a good deal harder," he said. 
Peter Rosazza, auxiliary bishop of Hartford, Conn., suggested the his­hops group "should scrutinize" and report on nuclear-policy develop­ments. 
But Fulcher, a member of the his­hops' War and Peact" Committt"t", said that at present that was not the committee's function. 
Other hishops, including James Malone of Youngstown. Ohio, the group's president-elect, suggt"sted t·alling a conference of religious kaders of various faiths to spread tht· letter's arguments to a wider audienct·. 

Laundry trial period starts Nov. 28 
By scorr HARDEK 
SeniorStaffReporter 

A three week trial use period ofwomen's dorms' was­
hing machines hy male residents was affirmed by the 
Hall Presidents Council last night. 

The "experiment" will hegin Nov. 28 in Pasquerilla East and West, Brecn-Phillips and Farley Halls. Each women's dorm will let North Quad residents use their washers and dryt"rs one night a week from 6-I I p.m. The samt" experiment will he tried on the South Quad at a larer date. 
An appeal was made to the council by the organizers of the Student Union production of "Fiddler on the Rouf' for crew help. Anyont" who has any time to help may contact Matt Schneider at 3263 or Glen Kane at 3094. No experience is nect"ssary. 
The play will run Dt"c. 1-3 at 8 p.m. Tickt"ts are 53.50 
in advance, S4 at the door, and 53 in blocks of25. 
William Hickey, Jr., Director of University Food Services, spoke to the council. He stressed the improve· ments made during his I 5 month term of office. Hick­ey's main concern is to Improve the image and credibility ofUniversity Food Services. 
Hickey mentioned special ethnic nights and "A Taste of Notre Dame" as efforts made to improve the Food Services. He explained that the acquisition ofsome new recipes should improve the quality of thl" food hut added, "Nothing gets too nice when you're feeding three thousand people in (a) dining hall". 
Other items discussed wt"re the extension of tht" crazy pkturt" contest deadline to friday, the lack ofuse ofthe 06 parking lot and the sale ofgold and blue paper airplanes by Air Force ROTC in the dining halls for this week's game. 


Marines to withdraw by Christmas 
Associated Press 
St. George's, Grenada -U.S. inva­sion forces will withdraw from Grenada no later than Christmas, the acting American t"nvoy said yester­day after five ml"mhers of the Carih­ht·an island's provisional governmt"nt were sworn in. 
"Everything depends on security," acting t;.s. ambassador Charles Gillespie told rt"porters following the swearing-in ceremony for five members of Grenada's nine­member governing council at the of­ficial government house. Four wert" 

ShareThe Viatorian VISION The.· prunu-.cul Chn..t. ~The Kmt«dum nl GnLI:· '' n11Yo' llltll..'llc\'1.' m tho.t pnmuM" ''thct1Cdo11.:~ ullhL' V1.rtun.an "'''"'" A"' 11 Vu1tumm. ynu wuullf lx-111 a "'-'an:hmtt.ttmWIRtf ~.·nmmuml~ nl hfllthc" o1nt.l I'll"''-"'" We~ dcdh:iltnltn 'Jlfl',Mim~ the Chn,u.an Wll)' tlllllc throu!!h c..Ju~o:ill11m anti pa~tural mm,.,uy f·ur mun: mlnfntollkm wntc IK ..:1111 Rr\. JrN:ph I.of). C' \ Dm·~.·tm ut '¥1.J~:.att\tn' NDU t-.~1 W~,.·.,t Rn"':uc. ChH:al!u. IIIU\1.11., h0h~7 111:!1 <li;!,olj 71.\1 l'lcu..._. wm..lnM•n· mlt..-nlliiMIO mHn...·l..h.Jidy Nallk.' r\,!o'l' -------­AJIJr~,.•,., 1-...llkatr'IO~-­C•t)' St.Jh: -'"•r-­ 
COUNSELINE A service to the ND community 239-7793 HOURS: 4-tOpm Mon-Thurs. Couns~llne •s a frP.e. conl•denttal telephone servtce Ihal offers protesstonallylaped malenals Ihat cover a wtde vam~lv.«?f..sluden1 concerns  
T APl: NO TITLE 1 Frtendst·up SulldtnQ 7 Deilltmu wrlh Consnuclrvf! (.rriiC:ISnl 8 ~artnQ .vrth AnqPr 9 UncJersttlnd•no Jto<:~lous.,. 1n11 Ho"' to Ott<:!I wtth It 10 Huw lo Sa'!' NO 16 Boc.ornrno Opet~ to Q4hers 1R DllllngSk•lls JO Am•etv and Pusstble wa.,s lo Cupe wtltrll l2 Hnw lo o.....,wrltlLOnlrne~"' 33 How to Hanc11e Fears J!l Burldtng set! Esteem & Conl•den~.to 37 Rela•rng Eu~rctSeS 38 Copmg wrth St1ess 39 Female Se• Rule Change!'! <1nd Streu 44 l l"&rntnQ to Accept Yourst'll 61 What 15 HHuapv & How 10 Use It 83 Huw to Cope "Ntlt"' d Rrokrn AeiBitonshrp 8~ UnderstandtnQ Gnel 90 Helping a F11end 160 fally srgns ol o1n AlcOhOl Prvotem 161 Attsponarble Dec•!uons Aboul Dnnhtng 402 Sell Asser1111eness 4J I Whalrs Ocpressron 432 How to OP.al wrlh Oepreu1on 433 Oepressron as allle Sl'fle 478 Becommg /nc1eprndflnllrom Paten 479 DttalmQ wrlh AICohohc Parents 491 SUICidal C"rl!us 492 Aecognr~tng Su•c•dal Potenttal '" Olher~ 493 Helpmg Someoner!l a Sutcrdal CriSIS  
Counsellne Is a completely anonymous sen.oce ollered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9-5 ··CLIP AND SAVE-­ 

Notre Dame Student Players in association with Music Theatre International 
present 
Fiddler On The 
Roof 

Dec 1, 2, 3 8:00pm O'Laughlin (SMC) Tickets on Sale at S.U. Record Store $3.50 All Seats Reserved 
r----------------~clip & save----------------, 
Perfect For Tailgaters 


PARTY SUBS 
3 Meats, 2 Cheeses & Choice of Toppings 
3  feet  serves  20-25 ... $30.00  
4  feet  serves  25-30 ... $37 .50  
5  feet  serves  30·35 ... $45.00  
6  feet  serves  35-40 ... $50.00  

ALSO:MEATTRAYS,CHEESETRAYS &SALADS 
the 



DELI 
1753 E. 12th st. Mishawaka, IN 
Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 Jeff Etoll, owner, NO '78 255-7797 
'-•••••••••·----clip &save -•••_••••••••••.1 
unable to attend. 
Gillespie also said U.S. troops would be out of the country "certainly by Christmas." He said the withdrawal would be "within the 60 days" required by the U.S. congress, or earlier if Grenada's interim government requests it. 
U.S. forces invaded Grenada Oct. 2S with the declared mission of rescuing hundreds ofAmericans and restoring order following a bloody coup rhat left Marxist Prime Minis­ter Maurice Bishop and others dead. 
At least 18 Americans, 2 I Grenadians and 42 Cubans were reported killed in the U.S. landing. 
Before the invasion, Cuba had sent workers to build an airport, teach in schools and work in hospi­tals. The Reagan administration claimed the Cubans were plotting to seize control of the island. Cuba has strongly denied it. 
Nicolas Braithwaite, acting chair­man of the ne'"' council which will run the government until elections can he held in ahout six months, said the panel would begin "taking the administrative decisions of govern­ment." 


) ·~ 
GRAND REOPENING SAL ~\ thru Nov. 18 
·, '\ 

Take 20% off everything !i~ you want at ROBERTSON' \ You'll save as much as \ 50°/o on already reduced items 
*except cosmetics, shoes, sale perms. 
"In my job at the First National Bank of Chicagn. Iam cnnslalltly using the knowledge acquired through my paralegal trainiOR at Rnnsevelt .. 
-.'unl Hnll blllk.,._ II1U' illld ltu'L' l;rAdu•k· 


LAWYER'S ASSISTANT: 
AGROWTH CAREER FOR THE SO's 
Training as a l.awva's Assistant <:an ~o~ivt" today's <:olkge 
graduate a valuahk ed~t· in th~ joh markt:t. Entry-l~vd positions in the Chica~o~o area pay a~ mut-h as Sl.l.OOO 10 Sl ';,000-and some parale!o13ls art· now e~rning as mud1 ;u. S_U,OOO 
It take~ just three months of daytime study (six months in the evenin~) to pr~pare for a t·arnr a~ a l.awver·, Assi~tant. The program at Roosevelt l'niversity i~ the largt·st Ali A.-approved pro~ram in Illinois_ and it~ record of ~o~raduate t"mployment assistant·e is the hest thert" is 
FOR INFORMATION AND A FREE BROCHURE CALL(312)341·3882 OR MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY! 

,,..............................,.~~··········..································~····· 
ROO~E\'EI T l 'NI\' :K.~II !' l.a·wver's Assistant Program • 4W's. Mi<:h1gan A\'l". Ch•t·ago.lll. 6060'; . • 
In l'tKJPt'rilllllll '!-.tth 'lhl' ,,un,nal ( .c:nln l11r Par.. lc.·wal lt;unrn~ 
Please send me a cop) of lht· Roost'l'l'lt La11~-er's AssJslant Program catalog Iam inlert•sted in the _ Chiragoor _ ArlinRtoll llr•ghLI localion 
(I(\ 
'" 
llomt· Phone: 
Approvt"d tor \:A and Ill Slat<' (;uarantn·d Loans 19 
Koo~t.·H·U t nt\1.'1~11~ adnul.., Jll !'tllH.knl!'o tHl ttu: h.L,I!'I nr HV'" 1du.11 hi rJt.'l' (.'llicJr "tt.'X tJr 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 

Observer photo/Carol Gales 

Gene Kelly, eat your heart out. No other city offers so many prime opportunities to recreate this immortal scene. Starring yes­terday were juniors Marianne Freeh, Mary Alice Bowmen and Mark Melchior. 

_Ihe Obsener__ 
is accepting applications for the position of 
PRODUCTION MANAGER 
For details, ask David or Margaret at 
---Ih----. e-Obse.----_~~--&.-=-Y=-..,_&-= 
office. 

Deadline: 5 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 17. 
Soup and (Homemade) Bread A benefit luncheon to provide the food for the St. Augustine's Thanksgiving Day dinner. 
,., l' 
,,-,ff~,






-..•..,,
j; 
~­
Thursday, November 17 11:30-1:30 at the Center for Social Concerns 

riiOIIIIIIIHetiOHIIIHIIIII~=~;~;·;·;=;;;;IIIINOIOOIIIIIOIIIIIIIIIIIOOO 
. 
The Artistic Process: WHAT IS ART? 
Slide lectures designed to introduce viewers to basic ideas and techniques in the making ofart. 
November 17 
8:30p.m. 
December 1 
7:30p.m. 
December 8 
7:30p.m. 
"SCULPTURE" Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C., 
professor Dept of Art, Art History andDesign "GRAPHICS" Dr. Dean A. Porter, director The Snlte Museum of Art "REMBRANDT ETCHINGS" Clifford Ackley, associate curator of prints, drawings and photographs, Boston Museum of Fine Arts 
Held In Annenberg Auditorium, The Snlte Museum of Art University of Notre Dame 
In conjunction with the Exhibition: "THE ARTISTIC PROCESS: IDEAS AND TECHNIQUES" O'Shaughnessy Main Gallery, THE SNITE MliSEUM OF ART 
Sponsored by Friends ofthe Snite-Admission $2; $1 Students and Friends 

.............IIIIIIIIIHIIIIIHIHIIIIHIHIIIIH...HIHHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIHHIIII.....HIIIHto 
Wednesday, November 16, 1983-page 5 
Expert celebrates Irish US input 
By PAUL McGINN 
Executive Editor 
Irish Americans stand up and be 
counted. Your day to celebrate your 
contribution to U.S. culture comes 
tomorrow when Irish-American 
studies expert James P. Walsh 
presents "Moving Up: the Irish in 
American Political Life." 

Walsh, a history professor at San Jose State l'niversity and author of five books on Irish Americans, comes to Notre Dame at the invita­tion ofthe Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism through a 
grant from the Ancient Order of Hibernians and its ladies auxiliary 
group.  
Walsh's  works  include  Ethnic  
Mi/itam:v:  An  Irish  Catholic  
Proto~vpe,  The  Irish:  America's  

Political Class, and The San Fran­cisco Irish: 1859-1976. 
Walsh ha~ been named a Fulbright Scholar to the Republic of Ireland twice. and plans a speaking tour of Irish universities next year. 
Founded in 1977, the center has served a~ one ofthe leading research and collection centers of Catholic American literature and memorabilia, according to its direc­tor and founder, historian Jay Dolan. The Center also publishes the 
American Catholic Stud'es Neu·slet· ter and yearly sponsors a nationwide 
continuedfrom pal(e 1 
level classes," he said. 

grade worth one to two-thirds ofthe Swartz said "I have a lot of trouble final grade. "The problem is that with" putting more weight on final with freshmen. one·third is a con­exam gradt·s. "I don't think they've siderable amount of the grade if it is thought through the issue," he said. 
a course that has frequent exams, He said he was "looking ti1rward which is the case in many lower-to the discussion" in deciding about 
Go! Notre Dame 
! 

"B~ST" A~ Force! '· 
~;~a>~~ 

Crazy Picture Hunt 
Deadline to enter extended through November 18 


All entries to: 
Box 19 
Notre Dame, In 46556 

Dine among the antiques and enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 121 South Niles South Bend 
seminar on Catholic American his­tory. 
Beginning next year, the center, in cooperation with the Hibernians and its ladies auxiliary. also will award an annual research grant to a post-doctoral scholar who plans to study any area of the Irish-American culture or history. 
According to an artick about the center which appeared in U.S. Cath­olic Historian earlier this year. "the center hopes to assist the Catholic community in America to come to a better understanding of its situation in America, past and present." 
Walsh's lecture will take place at 4 

p.m. tomorrow in the lounge of the Memorial Library. 
• • .Exams 
tbe issue ofsenior exemptions. 
Finance professor Barry Keating, 
another member. felt that the 
proposed changes W(:re"more or 
less a reiteration of the existing 

policy." 
The current policy, as written in Academic Code contained in /Ju Lac, specifies that a two-hour tina! must be given in each dass. Excep­ti(>~ls to this policy must be ap· proved by the dean. (see portion of 
/Ju Lac ) 
FINAL EXAMINATIONS 
14.1 A two-hour finl!l examination must be given at the hme and place stipulated in the official e•~tmination schedule. Any C:lCCeptioos to this policy must be approved by the d<!an. Une•cused .,bsence from the semester examinotion w1ll result in the student's receiving " gr&de of "F." The instructor Md the student's dean will ddermirie whether the Clluse of absence wds sufficient to permit tho! later admm1stration of the e~aminabon. No student shall be required to take more thon two fint'll 
e:~;ominl!lions in one day or more than three final t:llt'lml· n~~lions in 1!1 24-hour period. 
14.2 At the discretion of the instrLctor, grad;..aling seniors who so request may be exempted f10m takmg the final exam1natian in on undergradu.,te course rf their wor~ in lhlll course up to the time of the fin.,l cxammobon has et~rned a grade of at let~st "8." In such cases, the semester grt~dc will be based cnhrely upon th£ d.:.'uwor~. This e~t:mptron opplie:s only to graduatmg students who are finishing tht:rr last semester t~nd who wrU be drgible lor a bo!lchelor's degre£ o!ll the successful condus'ron of the semester. 
SEMESTER GRADE REPORTING 
17.1 The semester grade of the undt:rgraduate student rn ony coune is based on two elements: (1) The classwork of the student for the whole s£m£ster, t~nd j2) the final examinatron. Finol CJ~mm<'!tions for undersradut~le courses moy not be werghted for more than one·third of the ·~mester's w01k m determming the final grades. Rcgo!lrdl, 10 of the grade rn the frnal c~omination. an rnstrudor may foil the studerit if \he student has not completed all the course work. Graduate Md law grades moy be bosed on the finals alone. 
Above are the sections ofthe current academic code that relate to the proposed revisions being considered by the Academic Council 
Currently, final exams may not be 
weighted for more than one-third of 
the semester's work. 
Senior Michael Smith, one of four 
student representatives on the 
council, says he tends to agree with 
the proposal to end senior exemp­
tions. 
However, Smith says he has dis­cussed the proposed revisions with students and "the big prohlem they find and I find is the emphasis on the amount ofthe final." 

Smith said he thinks a student should have been the committee. "Before it came to the academic council, I think it should have had some student input," he said. 
Another of the student representatives, Patrick Harry, said "Personally, I disagree with most of it." Barry says he has discussed the issue with students and the general response to the proposed r.·visions has been very negative. 
Most members ofthe council con­tacted by The Observer said they had not discussed the issue with other members. 

The meeting will be at 3:30 p.m. today in the Center for Continuing Edl'Cation . 

~i~~l!~<>__l_•_ll__t_______________w_ed-ne-sd-ay-,N-ov-em-be_r_16-,1-98_3__pa-ge-6 


Richard Cohen becomes 'Manners Man' 
I havt: a timta.o;y. (Okay, I havt: st:vt:ral, hut this ont: I ean writt: aboul.) In my fantasy, wht·nt·vt·r somt:ont: dot:s somt:lhing rudt· I t·hangt: iniO a must·ular man in a Supt:rman­likt· outfit with a big '"M'' on my c:ht:sl. In my fantasy, pt:opk will look up into tht· sky and 
Richard Cohen The Cohen column 
say, "l~>ok, it's a hird, it's a plant:, it's Mannt:rs 
Man'" 
I am Mannt·rs Man. Wht·n a group of rt:ally tough-looking kids bla.o;t ont: ofthost: monMt:r portahk radios, I go up to tht:m and ask politt:­ly that tht·y dtht:r tum it offor play a soft Baeh pkct: say tht: Goldht:. g Variations, tht· Glt:nn Gould rt:ndition. 
Tht· kills giVl' mt: a look of uttt·r contempt, offt·r somt: commt:nts on fll\ ann·stry, and of­fn to t:ngagt· mt: in fist•t·uif~. It is tht:n that I dart into a phone booth and n·turn a.o; Mannt:rs Man. I swoop down on tht·m, take tht· radio in 
It is with no small amount of trt·pidation that I pt·n my thoughts ht·re and kavt: them tc>r your snutinization. It is also with a mt·asurt· of fear and a fast fading glimmer of hopt·. Being just a kid. nint·tt:en, and regis-
Michael McClory 
As it is 
tert·d l(>r the drafi so that lt·an pay lc>r college. 
the rt·tTnt turn of world atlairs has shakt·n me 
sonwwhat. 
Men and women st·rving in till" l :nitnl 
Stall·s armed h>rtTs han· htTn llying home 
\\Taring tot· tags. My neighbor. a frknd. t'\'en. 
possibly. J could he I he next to die. This last 
thought has inspirt·d tht· soul searching I han· 
dont·. 
World atl;tirs art· nmfusing. Tht· answers to 
q111 stions likt• who wants to hlow up who and 
li r \\hat rea.o;on art· not t kar. People, hl"ing 
stupid and short.o;ighted, sn· differt·nn·s in 
r;tn·, religion. and language as signitkant 
ht·yond a supnlidal kvel, as being worth 

fighting OVt'r. 
These, of courst·, an· silly displays of ar­rogantT. l ·nwngling the mt:ss, howevt.-r, is no t·asy chore. Faus bt:comt· mixed with rrcjuditT and propaganda causing pt·opk to ht· lost and scart·d. More than anything else, 1x·opk l(:ar that their lin·s art· wrong. 
\11: orld katkrs say thq· know sonll"thing about lit<: -about what is right at·tion, wht·rt: wt· should he ht:adnl. and how to get tht•rt·. Leaders cite their expt·rience, their )Tars of st·eing lit(: from tht· insidt• out. This. in their own opinion. gin·s tht·m somt· understanding of proper dirn:tion bt-caust· tht·y can st:t: wht-rt· a nation has come from. 
l.t·adt·rs habitually sn· their own nation as an kon of truth. rightt·ousness, and propt·r dirt:ction. When tht· nation ti:ds thrt·att:nt:d, wht·n tht: itkals it stands li>r art· in jt:opanly. kadns say that wt· must tight to prt:sef\T tht·m. This, tht·y say, is a just war-ont: fought h>r tht: right reasons. 
In a war soldkrs will die; tht:y die on hoth sides. Tht· army kfi standing at war's end ha.o; pro1·n1 that it fought h>r truth and frn·dom and that its soldkrs dkd li>r tht·st· contTpts. 
my hands of stt:el, and rt:dun· the thing to a 
lump ofplastic. Then I tell tht: kids that never, 
under pain of being ht:avt:d into outt:r space, 
will tht:y play the radio loudly again. 
Back in civilian dotht:s and looking likt: tht: 
mild-mannert:d eolumnist that I am, I scour 
the city, st:arching for brt:aches of mannt:rs. I 
pay particular attt:ntion to rest rooms, appear­
ing as Mannns Man whenever I catch some­
body throwing papt:r towds on tht: floor. I 
offl'f my usual spt·c:ch about good mannt:rs 
and tht:n go on my way, kaving everyone 
opt·n-moutht:d and, ofcourst:, wiSt:r. 
Next, I sit by the phone, waiting for a call. In 
due courst:, it comes and a voice says, "Is 
Chuck thert:?" Very politdy I say, "I'm sorry, 
you must have the wrong number. There is no 
Chuck hl'ft:." Tht: caller merely hangs up. No 
sorry. No thank you. Just a dick. 
Whoosh! I become Manners Man. Through powt:rs I will not bother to explain, I fly to the houSt: of tht: caller. I find him, hig, powerful, insoknt, sitting by the phone. I come right through tht: window. "It is bad manners to get a wrong numbt:r and hang up without apologizing." lie looks at me in dismay. "You art: rudt:," I say, and with that, I grab the 
phont:, yank it from the wall and heave it in the 
gc:nt:ral dirt:ction of Krypton. 
Being Manners Man kt:c:ps me very busy. I 
have to straighten out cab drivers who givt: 
passengers anxiety attacks by not ack­
nowkdging that they heard the destination. I 
also have to do something when cab drivers 
don't say thank you after being tipped. I dt:al 
with peopk in supt:rmarkets who leave their 
carts in tht: middle of the aisk, drivers who 
empty their ashtrays out the window and kids 
who cut into movie lines. 
In fact, Manners Man spends a lot oftime in the movies. He has to straighten out people: who talk too loudly, put their feet up on the St:at, read subtitlt:s out loud. Outside tht: movies, Manners Man contend-; with people: who stop in their tracks when gt:tting off an 
escalator, not caring that the people: behind tht:m have no place to go but up their backs. He wrecks the cars ofdrivers who do not sig­nal when turning and he deals ruthkssly with sales clerks t:vc:rywherc: who ignort: a cus­tomt:r to taltc: a tc:Iephont: call. Manners Man throws tht:m clear into the lingerie depart­ment. 
A psychiatrist might think that Manners 


A decision against war 
This is a just death -a dt:ath on account of others, a dt:ath through which ideals have ht.Tn preSt:rvt:d for the nation and posterity. Lt:aders do not feel too badly about the deaths thq· havt: ordt:red; they consider it a sacrifice that they must make. 
If world t:vt:nts wert: to force mt: into a uni­ti>rm, I would bt: told that I will tight and pos­~ihly dk for what is right. In many cultures the tht: idt·a of tkath in.the namt: of ideals is con­sidered nohk. Socratt:s and Nathan Hale died f(>r thdr idt:als. Tht.·se art: tht: role: modds that kadt·rs want soldit'rs to identify with. 
Many do buy into this idt:a. At tht: prt:St:nt timt: I eannot. Timt: and expnience will help me to ultimatdy dt.Titk. Lt:t mt: explain. 
The dt:ath that leaders ask nineteen year olds like me to die is diffc:rt:nt than tht: one Socrates died. Socratt:s had lived a full life, he was rich in expt.'Tiencc:. He knew why he was going to die, he could St:e what he was dying for. I am too young, too lacking in the ex­periences oflife to sec the reasons for fighting. 

Tht: reasons have hc:c:n dc:St:ribc:d for me by doers, by lcadt:rs. but I eannot set: them for mysd[ This maltes it impossibk to dt:cide how right or how wrong the reasons for fight­ing art:. I suspect the reasons arc wrong. Thus, I havt: nothing to ha.o;c: my participation in a war on. 
I havt: always hdd outmoded be:lids. Since I could first verbalize rational thoughts I have 

MOSCOW AND IT'S NtTWORK OF W[ CAN'T BACK DOWN NOW OR LLFTIST T"U6S AND SUR~OGATES AND IT WILL STRIP ALL Tift t1LANIN6 TERRORISTS ARL BliliNO ALL Of TliiS. FllOM Til[ AML~ICAN OCATijS. 
Man is just another namt: for my super ego, that I am frustratt:d, thwarted and full of hos­tility. Mannt:rs Man, though, does not care what they think. Manners Man's only concnn is to malte the world nicer, for it to bt: less rude and ckaner and not a'> loud. To this end, like Captain Midnight (or was it somc:ont: dSt:?), Manners Man asks no quarter and gives no quarter. 
Soon, Mannt:rs Man bc:comt:s tht: scourge of motorcyclists. He hunts down those with the loudest machines and wraps their cycles around telephone poles. Manners Man demolishes garbage trueks that grind away early in the morning and it got:s with'JUt saying that Manners Man docs not, for a St:cond, put up with Billy Martin, George Stt:inbrennc:r or, for that matter, Frank Sinatra Manners Man washes out their mouths with soap. 
Unlike Superman, Manners Man is not fazed by Kryptonitt:. The only thing that can stop him is good manners, and with John McEnroe St:tting an t:xamplc for the world, Manners Man's future is assured. 
Up. up and away. 
Tbt! '&l'"asblnglon Post Co. 

been obSt:s.o;c:d with tht: notion that human life is something spt:cial. I do not bclieve life should bt: cheapent:d by people in war. 
Talking rather than shooting St:ems to be the more dfc:ctive method for worthwhile com­munication. 
Someday, maybe, I will sec through the eyes of tht: leaders. My life's c:xpt:rknct:s will tell me it is alright to kill or be kilkd in tht· namt: ofan ideal. Maybe I will rt:ach the kvd ofdis­

regard for life that kacters st:t: a.<; propt:r, though I pray that this will never comt: to pass. For ifit did, the fading glimmer ofhopt· that is still there for humanity would bt: extin­guished forevt:r. 
The-~er__  EditorialBoard Editor-in-Chi<'/............  .. ... .l)a,·id Dzinlzic  DepartmentManagers  
I' 0. /lox{}. .\'otrt'lhtlllt', /.\' 46556  (.!/'}) .!J'J-5303  JlmwKing Editor....................... Margart.·t l'osmoc:  Business Manager ..................Christopht.·r ( hn·n  
lht• 0/J.H'I"l'er h the imkpt·mknt llt"\\ ~papn puhli~hnl In till" students of tht· l"ni·  Ewcutil'e EtlittJr.................................Paul :\kGinn  Contm/ler...............................................Alex Szill"a.~  
n·r~it\' of Notn· Dame du Ltt and Saint :\tan·~ Colkgt·. It dot·s not nt·,·t·ssarill" rclkn  .\"eu·s Editor..................... ........... Bob \'omkrhcide  .-ldi•ertising Manager ..........................kanit.-Pook  
till' p1 .>1ide~ of the .Jdminhtration of eitlll'r. in~titution. The news i~ reportt·d as a~o:­ Sews Editor......................  ..... Mark Worscheh  Circulation Manager..........................Vlark :\lil>llo  
ntrateh ami as ohjel"lin·ly a~ possibk. t·n~ignnl nlitoriab reprt·~t·nt the opinon of a  Saint .\larr's Editor..................Annt: :\llma.o;tyrski  .\)•stems MmUtKer.  . .............. Kt·,·in William~  
majorit\" ofthe Editorial Board. (.onunt'lllaric~. kilns. and the ln~ide Column present  .\j)(Jrts l:"ditor ................................Michad Sullil"an  Composition MmwKer...... .....Suzanne La Croix  
till" vin~ ~ oftht·ir authors.< :olumn space i~ al"ailahk to allmemht-rs of the eomnmnitl".  Features EdittJr...............................Sarah llamilton  
and tht· frtT expres,.ion ofl·an·ing opinions on Gtmpus. through kllt'r". is l'IKOUragnl.  Pb.Jto Editor.......................... ...............St·on Bowt:r  

Founded November 3, 1966 
"ie~p_o_i_n__t__________________________________________w_e_d_n_e_sd_a_y,_N_o_v_e_m_b_er__t6_,_I_9_B3___P_a_g_e_7 

Requiem for the modern hero 
The people of this age, assaulted by the Technology Revolution, battered by senseless acts of violence, informed through the misin­formation ofour governments, fragmented by the breakdown ofour basic social institutions, are beginning to seck new answers. 
Uving in the mo~t dynamic andturbulent 
Robert Lloyd Snyder Then midweek 
years of human existence, we search for new direction and inspiration in order to give our culture and race purpose. 
We trust the leaders of this world to direct 
our nations to-policies which will best serve 
the interests of their nation, their region, and 
the world; we can only pray that these 
categories of interests are not irreconcilably 
incompatible. 
We select leaders over us whom we hope will live exemplary lives, in order that they may truly lead and inspire the people oftheir country and of the world; we eventually depose those who cannot measure up to those ideals. 
We Americans especially seem to demand a "something extra" of our leaders; again and again, studies indicate that Americans expect complete moral and intellectual honesty from our politicians, and that as a nation we cannot tolerate those who would willingly deceive 
us. 
Watergate, the national debate over Viet­
nam, and a long history of bribery and moral 
behavior scandals all attest to the fact that 
Americans generally expect their leaders to 
be beyond reproach. 
We want our leaders to be something more 
than ourselves; we want men of superhuman 
character and strength, ofincredible compas­
sion and restraint, offirmness in commitment 
and will We call for someone beyond us, but 
ofourselves. 
Our age demands great men. The age demands a hero. We are living in a period in history without heroes. 
Some people would vigorously debate this statement, replying that there are "heroes" everywhere whom we simply do not notice, 


Bagman of Notre Dame 
It's a poig1ant scene. Early .autumn sunlight glittering atop a puddle congested with vivid­ly colored fallen leaves. The edge ofthis lovely equinox has just turned, carrying us through another transitional time. Nature's beauty sur­rounds us, assaulting our nostrils with the acrid yet pleasing smell ofburning leaves, and 
Charles Geoffrion 
Reflections 

typically dreary midwestern skies are layered at lower levels with a canopy of brilliance in every direction. Tht: Notre Dame campus specializes in such an annual spectacle. 
Great atmospheric high pressure zones join in hemispheric jousts, giving way to another season in our lives. Yet this annual event (we've all been waiting for it after a hot, dry summer), this picture-parade, cannot postpone certain reality which clings fast, im­pervious to any force yet felt. 
The wheels ofa small, hand-drawn wagon ( a "radio flyer" from all of our childhoods) splits the silver-yellow puddle surf.tce, sen-


Faculty freedom 
Dear.Editor: 
It appals me to reveal that certain ad­
ministrators at this so-called Catholic Univer­
sity have unilaterally arrogated to themselves 
the power to budget, issue, and sign the 
faculty's monthly paychecks. This unwar­
ranted assault upon the faculty's indepen­
dence, academic freedom, integrity, and right 
to profess whatever it wishes deserves the 
most bitter condemnation. 
Speaking as a member of the faculty, I must 
acknowledge that the University's incumbent 
adminstrators have not seen fit to censor -or 
even to pay much attention to -anything I 
have chosen to say. And it is true that the Uni­
versity's bigwig.-; have given me an office, 
supplies, a super secretary, hospitalization, an 
audience, football, a parking space, The Ob­seroer, and unlimited access to Huddlebur­gers, notwithstanding my suspicions about their motivations for using such beneficences to manipulate and mangle my mind. 
But withal, forsooth, we of the scholarly 
community need to be free not only ofUniver­
sity influence, hut also ofany question ofUni­
versity influence in order to serve Truth. And 
the University needs us to be free -truly in­
dependent, not some misty illusion -in or­
der that we may remain accountable only to ding ripples my way as I watch a man pull past me a piled-high plastic package of aluminum beer cans. His child, a boy ofabout four years, clings precariously at the rear. 
Memories of the morning newscast violate this bitter-sweet scene of a father and son to­gether on a daily effort to gather what they need to get by. The strident voice of the an­nouncer hurries through the facts -"New car sales are up 47 percent ...this summer's draft and the government's PIK program (Payment in Kind) have combined to force up the price offresh and processed foods ...and unemployment rates remain static at high levels ..." 
I wonder what this team of collectors will do when the season changes next to cold wind and drifting snow. " ...the natural gas utility has won government approval for an­other 18 percent hike costing the average American family another $280 this season ..." 
I wonder, too, about those who discard week after week what amounts to sacks of well-drained aluminum. I wonder ifthey have a taste ofwhat surrounds us all I wonder who else has noticed the "Bagman ofNotre Dame" who "cams" 30 cents for every thirty cans he picks up from the stuffwe leave behind 
the Muses who inspire us. 
Were I moved to teach that the Con­federacy won the Civil War, might not some future administrators employ my paycheck to bludgeon me into dull conformity? Were I to profess that the world is flat and Columbusfell over the edge near the Azores, might not the Dome snatch the very bread from my table and starve me into whimpering submission? 
Were my sense ofunbridled justice to cause me to revoke all exams and to flunk every stu­dent, might not the University intrude upon my freedom by threatening to stop payment ofmy pittance? 
I therefore demand, non-negotiablywise, that the University's mandarins cease budget­ing, signing, and doling out my checks month­ly, and that instead they deposit in my account a lump sum, in gold bricks, equivalent to all the active and post-retirement income and perks I may reasonably expect to receive be­tween now and the third Tuesday of Lent, 2043. 
That sum must incorporate projections for 
emergencies, inflation, future-ifunlikely­
promotions, the fact that my 1969 Plymouth 
needs new tires, and the fact that I wish to 
commute from Hong Kong; and it must be 
rounded off to the nearest quarter. Two mil­
lion dollars and fifty cents will do. An audit 
conducted independently by my wife and my 
parakeet will guarantee my accountability. 
Bob Kerby Assoc Prof/History 

such as teachers, workers, parents, social 
workers or other people ofhigh morality and 
commitment. 
Others would reply that our Marines who 
have died in Lebanon and Grenada were 
heroes. Many would point to our current 
leaders and categorize these men as "grei!t 
men" and "heroes." 
Not to question the valor and courage ofthe 
Americans who have fallen recently in battle 
for causes they were told were "right"; but 
again, these are not the type of "heroes" 
which our age so desperately requires. 
The current world leadership is not 
composed of "heroes." Reagan is not a hero, 
nor is Andropov. The Sandinistas are not heroes, Commander Zero of the "Contras" is not a hero; Arafat is not a hero, nor is Khomeini a hero. Thatcher is not a hero. Mit­terand is not a hero. Nakasone is not a hero. John Paul II is not a hero. Hesburgh is not a hero. Faust is not a hero. Glenn, the candidate, is not a hero. These are influential men, in­dividuals of varying degrees of personal leadership. Some ofthese men have admirable 
qualities. But they are not heroes. 
And the age demands great men, and 
heroes. 

Perhaps in the media age, no individual can 
long withstand intense public scrutiny with· 
out the loss of charisma and "greatness," or 
perhaps we simply demand too much of our 
leaders, who after all, are only human. 
Nevertheless, the frequent invocation of the memory of "great men," men who were remembered as "heroes" provides ample tes­timony that the age demands a hero -a Chur­chill, a Lincoln, a Gandhi, a Martin Luther, a Martin Luther King, or a Kennedy. The age 
demands a man of perceived integrity and charisma, a man ofnew vision and foresight, a leader ofexceptional intelligence and insight. 
Our age is demanding men who can lead the human race into the 20th century, whole and intact; it demands men of wisdom and courage who could pull the world out of the malaise of"the times," leaders who will teach mankind the directions in which the race must proceed, or else perish. 
Our age demands, and must have, greatness from our leaders. The age demands heroes. 

Though it may seem so simple, good timing is the key to success in any venture we wish to undertake. Being in the right place at the right time, conversing in a manner both intrinsical­ly and extrinsically rewarding to ourselves and our company, and recognizing inap­propriate situations_are all ~alities ofthe su~~ 
T. Burke 

Just a _tho~ght 
cessful person. When an effort is made, failure (be it financial, social or romantic) is most of­ten due to bad timing. 
Being in the right place at the right time is a phrase we have all heard and experienced. However, lady luck is certainly not the only cause. Reflecting on past experience, noticing trends and heeding examples set by others will lead us to beneficial situations. 
In Shakespeare's Romeo andjuliet, lack of effort or emotion in no way led to the romance shattering dual suicide. It was just a case ofbad timing. 
We should also learn good timing in con­versation. Depending on the desired outcome, understanding those you speak to 
and arranging your own ideas can be very im­
portant. The timely release offacts in eitheran 
argumentative or social conversation will 
have a definite impact on its success. 
One would certainly not play "Friend ofthe 
Devil" at an audition for the Sacred Heart 
Church folk group. 

The third rule of good timing, recognizing inappropriate situations, is the most impor­tant ofall. There are some statements and ac­tions which never should be revealed to 
certain persons. A fine example is former Sec. of the Interior James Watt's com· ment on a newly formed congressional com­mitee. That was just bad timingJim! 
Even President Reagan based his nationally televised appeal involving Grenada on timing. As stated to the nation, "We got there just in time." 
The synergy of all methods of good timing pave the route to prosperity in the world today. The stock and commodities markets are fine examples. Ifa capital base ex­ists and good timing is implemented, cash will flow in like a mountain stream in springtime. 
For some, good timing comes naturally 
while for others, it is a talent which must be 
learned. 

P. O.BoxQ 
Showcase 
Wednesday, November 16, 1983-page 8 
34th year on TV and ~You're the reason' 
Notre Dame will thank Hope for the memory 

B
ob Hope enjoys performing on college campuses, he says, he­cause they are so full ofenergy and fun. "You don't have to warm them up; they warm you up." 
Last night in the ACC tht.· warmth 
was shared. 
Not only did last night's audience experience Bob Hope in person, they also witnessed and took part in the filming ofa television special. Hope was at Notre Dame conclud­ing a tour ofselected college campuses during which ht· compiled material for a show to he aired on NBC, Nov. 23 from 8-10 
p.m. 

Concessions must be made when viewing a taping. Voices from nowhere intermpt monologues, stutterings and slurs must be cor­rected, cue cards sometimes hide the stars. But these also add to the excitement, except for the obstruct· ing cue cards. 
A skit about football at Notre Dame featured Hope, Dionne War­wick, Joe Montana and five ofthe Irish cheerleaders. At rehearsal, that afternoon, the sketch seemed ex­tremely sexist, somewhat dry and still a little rough. In front ofthe audience and cameras it was still un­polished, but that made it all the 
by Sarah Hamilton 
features editor 
more humorous. Montana just could not call the Fighting Irish "creampuffs" with a straight face. (The guy must still have a little loyalty.) Warwick couldn't quite blow her coach's whistle with the proper austerity. And IIopt· asked Laura Lewis if she wanted to turn pro after college (football, that is). lie was supposed to questionJojo Bautista. 
Between the two tapings the television editing crt·w should bt· able to put together a complete skit. Whether or not the tuned-in audience will everget to laugh at the bit, the live crowd seemed tq·enjoy it, the bloopers as much as the polished product. 
Once the television material was 
recorded the stage area was cleared 
oftelevision camera.~ so that Hope 
could play specifically to his 
audience in the ACC. 
As he left the cue cards behind, Hope said, "That's the end ofthe television stuff and I'm coming hack to thrill you (the audience)." Besides a string of jokes about the motion picture industry -"I was in pictures when the score meant the screen" -hedid one on age -"Age doesn't mean a damn thing. It doesn't matter how you feel, just 



SMC women enter the kitchen 
Special to The Observer 
T
he Notre Dame/Saint Mary's second scene Theatre is current­ly producing"Kitchen Gothic," a full length play written and directed by SMC's assistant professorJulie Jen­sen. Performances are scheduled for November 17, 18, and 19 at 8 p.m. in the SMC's little Theatre. Admission is $1, at the door. 
Jensen has chosen an unusual ap­proach in her direction ofthe play. The cast, Elizabeth Bottum, Ave Green and Susan McGinnis, will ex­change roles each night, so that through the course ofperformances, each actress will play every role. A 
rehearsal period oftwo and a half 
months has enabled the ca.~t to ex­periment and master this unique device. 
"Kitchen Gothic" received an honorable mention at the Beverly Hills Theatre Guild National Playwriting Competition; the play, under the title "Old Wives Tales," will be performed this spring at the American Place Theatre in New York City. The play also will he per­formed in the summerof1984 at the Actor's Studio in New York City. 
"Kitchen Gothic" is a fascinating drama in which a family with five how often." 
A highlight ofthe second halfof the show was IIope's performance ofthe song "Buttons and Bows," originally from his movie, "Palef.Ice." The hand had to wait through four or five jokes hl'li1re they could get past the pien·'s rntro­duction; Hope was (ktermined to make up for a joke about Irving the grasshopper. But the audience loved the whole number. Even Irving. 
Prt·sident Kennedy h<~d once named Hopt· the country's "good will ambassador." !lope earned that title last night. He sang a medley of songs, interspersed with jokes all about the United States, everything from "Dixie" to "I Got a Gal in Kalamazoo." 
The theme ofoptimism ~hone through Hope's singing and speech. He was sure the U.S. could pull out of the current recession and would present a strong image to the world if the nation's 200 million citizens stood together. 
Even if everyone cannot share Hope's optimism about the future, all had to he impressed with his vigor. Hope is as excited with com­edy and performing as ever. After all. "you can only play golfonce a day," but performing is continuous. "Mr. Entertainment" promised that he isn't going anywhere. This is his 34th year on television "and you're the reason." Any gratitude expressed for the memory oflast night is mutual. 
children moves next door to an old­er woman who becomes frightened and preoccupied by their presence. During the course ofthe play, the woman establishes a relationship with the oldest daughter ami becomes linked to her mother by 
way ofa paralleled trauma. 
The play sets up a dynamic offear, vulnerability, and suspicion that is eventually resolved when the older woman is forced to understand both herselfand those around her. 
Information on the performance may be obtained by calling the Department ofTheatre at 284-4640; tickets will he sold at the door only.
ShipS paSSing in the night.,, TbeObaervor/ScoiiBower 
~--------~~------------­
I 

Sports Briefs 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will be meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 20 ofHayes-Healy. All are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Interhall lacrosse begins tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. at Stepan Center. The first challenge game is between Holy Cross and St. Edwards. -The Obseroer 
The ND Football Banquetwill be held Monday, 
November 21 at the ACC. The night begins with cocktails at 5:30 
p.m. and dinner follows at 7 p.m. Former Irish all-American running back Creighton Miller will be the toastmaster for the night. The featured guests and speakers will be all six ofNotre Dame's Heisman Trophy winners. Ticket information is available by contacting Hugh Reynolds at 232·3992 or 289-4303. -The Obseroer 
Basketball ticketsare still available. A limited number of non-renewable bleacher season tivkets are now on sale for the 1983-84 season. They will be on sale through today at Gate 10 ofthe ACC. The ticket window is open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. -The Obseroer 
Wednesday, November 16, 1983-page 9 
The Notre Dame Women's Golfteam is holding a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Corby Hall. The meeting is mandatory for all members. -The Observer 
A one-on-one Basketball tournament is beingsponsored by the NVA Office. The tournament which will be played on Friday, December 2 will be divided into three divisions­one for women, one for men under six feet tall, and one for men over six feet tall. It will be single elimination with the early rounds being played to five. The tourney is open to all undergraduate students except basketball letter wirnners. Trophies will be awarded to to the winners in each division and t-shirts will be given the final four. There is a $1 fee to enter, and the field is limited to 32 entries per 
division. You must sign-up in the NVA Office by November 23. For 
more information, call239·6IOO.-The Observer 
Mary DiStanislao, Notre Dame women's basketball coach will appear on television Saturday. She is the guest on WNDU· TV's Michiana Report at 5:30p.m. Co-captains Mary Beth Schueth and Theresa Mullins will also appear on the show. -The Observer 
Cowboys for sale 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -The Dallas Cowboys, one of the most successful franchises in the National Football League, are for sale under certain conditions, team President Tex Schramm said Monday. 
The stipulations include continu­ing to allow Tom Landry, the third winningest coach in NFL history, and Schramm to have a free rein in running the club on the field and in the front office. 
"Keeping the current structure is the objective and, hopefully, we would expect to have Dallas or Texas ownership," Schramm said. 
Clint W. Murchison Jr., 60, chair: man of the board, is in failing health and Schramm said Murchison "wants to get everything in order. And he's not going to let anyone buy it who will move the team." 
The Observer LaFortune office accepts classified advertisins from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, is open from 12:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. The deadline for next day classified service is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in per­
Classifieds son or by mail. Charge is ten cents per seven characters, per _day. 
NOTICES 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST Mrs. Bedford 288·2107 
Hours 9 a.m. to 5 p.m .. Mon. thru Fri. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. Reasonable rates. Call 287· 5162 
TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR THANKSGIVING -PLEASE CALL PAUL McGINN AT 277-4851 OR 23&­5313. 
SLOW DEATH iS rn need of funny people to JOin the staff. When cur new building is complete. we w1!1 all have new offices wrth electric pencil sharpeners and shapely secretanes and maybe even Danish modern lumnure. The sky's the limn for this new publication, so ~ you are at all interested, call8557, 1545. or t60t Ask 
tor Chloe. 
I NEED A RIDE TO CLEVElAND AREA NOV. 18. IF YOU CAN HELP CALL 7911 ASK FOR JEANETIE. 
Programming Contract programming. tutoring, or con­suttatlon ava1lable at fairly reasonable rates. Call Tom or Bruce at 277-4851 after 6. 
Concentration in Peace Studies informa­tional meeting Wednesday, Nov. 16. 8:00 pm. Center for Sacral Concerns. 
SOUP AND (HOMEMADE) BREAD A benefit luncheon to provrde the food tor the St. Augustrne·s Thanksgivrng Day din­ner. Thursday. November 17 11:30-1.30 at the Center for Soc1al Concerns 
HAIRCUTS!! GUYS $4 GIRLS $6 CALL MICHOLE AT 288 3501 
WILSON DRIVEAWAY cars to all pornts in the USA. only available one way. You prck up the car in Chicago. use of car is only 20$ plus gas. 
HANDPAINTED!! SWEATSHIRTS. T­SHIRTS. ANYTHING!! SUPRISE SOMEONE FOR XMAS WI A PER­SONALIZED GIFT! $5.00 EA CALL JENN AT 2156 FOR INFO 
CHEESESTEAK! CHEESESTEAK! CHEESESTEAK! MMMMMMMMM!!!I Howard Hall presents Wednesday night Cheesesteaks. To order dial8200 from 9 to 11:30 to order. FREE DELIVERY!!!!! 
GREG HATFEILD BIG BROTHERS COLLECTING TICKETS FOR AIR· FORCE GAME 1077 
••u• OU...............I.. 000u0 
LOST/FOUND 
HELPI CAN'T SEE I LOST· PAIR OF GLASSES. "GEMINI" IN BLACK CASE (EYE CARE DOC­TORS, WICKUFFE, OHIO). BROWN FRAMES, CLEAR PLASTIC LENSES. LOST 10/19 POSIBLY tN ENGINEER­ING AUDITORIUM CALL JOHN 3254. 
FOUND: HAND KNIT SWEATER ON PATH NEAR MUSIC BLDG. ON TUES. DAY, 11/1. CALL277-3443 
If you lost a watch in front of Haggar Cen­ter, I have rt. Call Lisa x5250 
LOST. HELPII LOST MY UMBRELlA IT WAS A BlACK TOTES SLIMLINE WITH INITIALS RPM ON THE HANDLE I LOST IT IN ROOM 127 NSH IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMATION PLEASE CALL RICH 8731. THANX 
FOUND: French tam between Fitzpatrick and Snite Call 6826, to claim. 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR 
I lost my Hewlett-Packard calculator in the Engtneenng Computer Room on Wed­nesday. Nov 9. It has big initials of OS in the right corner. lffound. call David at 277­1326. Reward offered No questions. 
MAKE$$$. I lost my HP-41 C calculator in either the EG auditorium or Lafortune Thursday the 1Oth. If I don't have it. I can·t do my homewo rk! If found call Dominic 1550 
lOST: WALTHAM GOLD WATCH. Great­ly appreciated it returned. Please call Jen­nifer Payne at 3570. 
Lost at Keenan party Fri. nite: Peacoat w/Detex and rm. keys in pocket. Please call 8036' 
Help! I lost my navy Mackintosh pea coat in the Keenan party room Sat. night. If you know of its whereabouts please call Julie at7119. 
LOST: Whoever accrdentally ramoved my shoe from Haggar Center (SMC) please contact me. No ?'s. 284-4285. 
LOST: If anybody picked up a Cross gold pen In SMC parking lot, please contact me. H has GREAT sentimental value. 284-4275. O.K. Klllle? 
LOST: Seiko watch. silver wnh gold bands. grey face. REWARD. Call Kevin at 3401. Thanks. 
REWARD for the safe return of one slightly soiled red unkJn suit WhiCh was removed from the first floor lavoratory in Alumni Hall. It is of great sent1mental value! 6243 serious inquiries only. 
LOST: SET OF KEYS. FRIDAY, NOV.11. SOMEWHERE BETWEEN A GRACE PARTY AND CARROLL HALL. ONE OF THE KEYS WAS MARKED WITH 425 N · ON IT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MAUREEN AT 284·4230 OR MARC AT 6741 IT IS VERY IMPORTANT THAT THESE ARE RETURNED 
LOST AT KEENAN BASEMENT SATUR· DAY NIGHT Jean Jacket(SB II) wrth pinstripes. My ID and room keys were in the pocket. PLEASE return to Holy Cross Hall (SMC) or call 284·4380. No ques­tions asked. Reward involved. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSE, CLOSE TO N.D. GOOD AREA 277-3604. 
GARAGE 2 BLOCKS FROM N.l:>. 277­
3604. 

APT UTILITIES PAID 288-0955 
TWO PEOPLE BUNGALOW PRIVATE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD 288· 0955/277-3604. 
WANTED 
3 RIDES NEEDED TO PITTSURGH FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK. LEAVING THE 22ND OR 23RD. WILL SHARE USUAL EXPENSES,ETC. CALL VIC AT 23!1-7471 OR 283-3406. PLEASE LEAVE MESSAGE. 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR 
THANKSGIVING -CAN LEAVE ANYTIME-CALL PAUL McGINN AT 23&-5313 OR 277·4851. 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO BUF­FALO FOR THANKSGIVING-PLEASE CALL PAT AT 8423 
HELP WANTED· BRUNO'S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER. CALL 277-4519 OR 288-3320. 
NEED TIX FOR AIR FORCE. DAN at 234­6496. 
PART TIME EMPLOYEE WANTED TO PlJT UP POSTERS ON CAMPUS NOW AND DURING 1983-84. 2·1 0 HOURS/MONTH, $4.50/HR. SEND NAME, ADDRESS. PHONE , ClASS YR.. ETC. TO MS. NISTICO. 152 TEMPLE ST.. 701. NEW HAVEN, CT. 06510. 
Riders needed to ROCH. NY 11/22­11127. Call DAVE 234·0537. 
I need a nde to and from Galesburg, Ill. or the Quad cities area for Thanksgiving Break. Can leave Tuesday afternoon. Call Cindy x4215. 
NEED ride to N.Y. suburbs lor T·giving ­can leave TUESDAY. call Betty at 4351. 
Need Ride to ATlANTA AREA torTurkey Day. Leave anytime after noon 11122. Return 11/27. Call Mary x2733. 
HELP! Desperately need ride to NYC or LONG ISlAND or even NEW JERSEY Must leave after 3:45 Tuesday Return Sunday Will share all PLUS! CALL 6205 
NEED RIDE TO BUFFALO FOR THANKSGIVING-CALL ROB 1777 
Need 2 rides to Ohio State this weekend. Willing to rent a car. X796 7 Julie & Nancy 
NEED RIDE FROM DALlAS TO NO AF­TER XMAS BREAK WILL SHARE COST & DRIVING. CALL PEG 1262 
Mernative Lifestyles party tonight w/DAN FEENEY 1722 
HELP !!!!!! RIDE NEEDED TO D.C. FOR THANKSGIVING. WILL SHARE USUAL OR RENT. LEAVE MON OR lATER. CALL 8425 AFTER 11. 
SYRACUSE!!! NEED RIDE TO SYRACUSE FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK WILL HELP RENT IF NECES­SARY. CALL GREG AT 1076 CAN LEAVE ANYTIME NEXT WEEK 
RIDE or RIDERS needed to OKlA tor T­break call Bob 8315 
I need a ride East on 1-80 to exit 4 or 5 in Ohio. Can leave 11/18. anytime. Jim 8674/72 
HELP! Need ride to Dayton.O(New Lebanon) forT-day. Can leave Man aft. or Tues. call Julia 5085(SMC) 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE : A DELCO CAR STEREO CALL 283-8046 BEST OFFER 
WOOD YOU UKE A DESK? FOR SALE: Wooden desk. 4 1/2 by 2 1/2 teet. Farr condition. Complete with drawers and legs. Price negotible. Contact Margaret at The Observer. 239-5303. 
r TICKETS 
• \Yf"}·"t 1"_:1~''""'":.............................. --~~-·":.. .. . 
NEED: TWO AIR FORCE GA'S--WILL PAY $$$ BECAUSE IT'S NOT MY MONEY KEN 1601 
Desperately need 4·6 Air Force GAs for New Jersey relatives!!! Call Crndy (5195) atSMC 

AIR FORCE GAS FOR SALE.272-6306 
I NEED AIR FORCE GAS.272-6306,232· 
1466 
NEEDED: 2 GAs FOR AIR FORCE. CALL CHARLENE AT 2909. 
SELLING 2 STU TIX AIR FORCE HIG­HEST BID BY WED 12AM 4261 AFTER 10:30 
NEED AT LEAST 6 GA TIX FOR AIR FORCE. CALL CATHY AT 6773. 
NEED 2 A.F. STU. TIX--3312. 
NEED FOUR GAs tor Air Force. Pairs OK. but prefer four together. Call Rob at 3251. 
I need 2 AF GAs call Mike 1723 
NEED 2 OR 3 GA'S AND/OR 1 STU. TICKET FOR AIR FORCE. CALL PAT AT 2180 
NEED 2 OR 3 GAS AND/OR 1 STU. TICKET FOR AIR FORCE. CALL PAT AT 2180 
Need GAs and student tickets for Air Force. Tracy x4347 
NEED 4 AIR FORCE TIX, CALL MIKE AT 277-1327 
Why freeze your buns off when I have 5 friends who will PAY you tor the privelege ?! Just sell me your Air Force trckel. -4520 or272·7640 
I need up to 6 AIR FORCE Tix Student or GA IF you can help Call Mary 3415 
Need 2 Air Force GA Tix. Sandra 284· 5025. 
4 airforce GA.s together to sell/low $$ call mark 1748 
NEEDED. ONEGA OR STUDENT TICK· ET. CALL KEN at 6664. 
need 1 stu AF tix 11 00 
WANTED. ~dR FORCE GA'S FOR UNCLE'S IRISH-CRAZY FRIENDS. CALL WOZZ 1773 
2 AF GA'S for sale. Call Bob 8315. 
FOR SALE: 2 Air Force GA's Best Offer 2845064 
PERSONALS 

BRUNO'S PIZZA NEEDS A DRIVER CALL 277-4519 OR 288-3320. 
You know you want to. So why not? KHchen Gothic SMC Little Theatre 8:00p.m.Nov.17,18,19 

Help! Need a ride to Cinninati forT-break. Will share expenses. Please call Kristin 7570. 
BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY SENIORS! Don't Forget 3RD ANNUAL BLOCK PARTY FRI. NOV. 18 3:30-6:30 IN ACC Food. Beverages. Music COME & HAVE SOME FUN! BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY BLOCK PARTY 
LOST: HP 15C CALCULATOR 

Lost in engineering computer room. Call David at 277·1326. No questions asked. Reward offerod. 
Big Brothera/ Brg Sisters is collectrng Air Force tix If you would like to donate e GA or Student ticket, cell1 077 or 1802 An N.D. g.,.. Ia an Incredible thrill lor the"llttles". 
Saint Mary's R.A. Applicants 
!/REMEMBER!! 
Briefing Meetings: Wed.. Nov. 16 or Thurs , Nov. 17, 6:30 p.m. Regina S. Lounge 
College to Car-Days/WOW Panicked about graduation?? Check out career planning programs today at 11:15 and 1:15 p.m. in the Student AffBirs Con· terence Room in LeMans Hall. 
MISS MANNERS assumes her reader­ship is just berng FASHIONABLY LATE, but she is still waiting for more feedback. Keep those cards and letters pouring in. Address your comments concerning the Miss Manners column to: The Showcase Editor. The Observer. PO Box 0. Notre Dame. R.S. V.P soon please. 
Betsy 
Hold on! You are not drowning, al· though I'll grant you that you may be having a M of trouble. As time allows I'd love to help as I can. but you can help you a lot just on your own. You are bright. if not the best of analytical thinkers. You might also remember that a lot of your class­mates are as badly off. Just hang in there. try not to get homesick, and take care. 
(signed), Your brother the typesetter 
To Kathy. the beautiful SOPHMORE from McCandless-was n McNeil or McNeeley?? Call Ma>1y at 3234. 
FEEL HELPLESS ABOUT ABORTION? Now you can do something to help unborn children AND their mothers! Come to our weekly SHIELD OF ROSES. We meet at the main circle every WEDS at 3:30 PM and then go to a local abortuary where we say the Rosary AS WELL AS counsel women who might be considenng abor­tion. Sponsored be ND/SMC Rrght to Life. 
Theology Forum Members: Do not miss "How To Gill A Job" -a talk by Mr. Paul Reynolds, ol the Career and Placement Bureau, tonight at 10:15 PM In room 115 Howard Hall. 
ST JUDE'S ST JUDE'S ST JUDE'S Airplanes:Gametime Sat 
HEY NO ANIMALS. One caged up. soft and cuddly white gal is interested in meeting guys who can hop and jump around with me rn my cage. Call RITA at 8915 
Thanks to everyone Who made rt a real ball 
THE KINETICS 
Need ride to Columbus. Ohio tor Thanksgiving Will share expenses. Call Janice 3803. 
Over the river and through the woods, to Grandmother's house we go, i~ Youngstown, Ohio. We need a sleigh (at least two rides) to get there. though. We'll supply hay and oats ($$) generously. Leaving Wednesday at noon. Please call MaryorSarahat 1311. 
BED AND BREAKFAST Available Air Force Weekend for ND/SMC parents. Two (2) night minimum. Ten minutes from Campus. Call272·5640. 
Do you want to eat your Thank~giv1ng turkey in Younstown. Ohio or there­abouts? And have you no way to get there? If so. and if you would hke a ride. call1311. 
need ride to cincinnati for thankSQI'-IInQ break/will share costs call mark at 1748 
TO THIRD FLOOR HOLY CROSS-SMC AFTER AN EXTENDED RECESS, COURT IS NOW ONCE AGAIN IN SES· SION. YOUR NEW TRIAL DATE IS SCHEDULED FOR FRIDAY. NOV. 18. AT 9;00 P. M. WE WILL PROCEED FROM THOSE NEUTRAL GROUNDS TO THE COURTROOM. THERE MAY BE SOME CASES TO DISPENSE WITH PRIOR TO YOUR HEARING. THE CHIEF JUSTICE WILL CONTACT YOU tN REGARD TO THE NEW LOCATION. REMEMBER. JUMPING BAIL IS A FEDERAL OFFENSE. 
Happy belated birthday. Snuggles. Hope 
your day was great. Love. Cuddles 
FISHIFISHIFISHIFISHI 
Dean. I'll cruise wrth you anytime! 
I HATE STEVE CERNICH 
I'm desperate! I need a nde home for turkey dinner! Please give me a ride to St. Louis. Can leave Tues. or Wed. Will pay usual. Call Maureen at 13t 1. Please call!II 
OK guys. What's the deal? It's dirty and it's too small for you to wear anyway. So give me back my red union suit PLEASE! 6243 
B.P. IS BACKI 
"THE DAY AFTER", ABC'S 7 MILUON DOLLAR MOVIE ABOUT NUCLEAR WAR AND KANSAS CITY, THIS SUN· DAY AT 8 IN THE ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM. BE THERE. 
Dr. Helen Caldlcott's controversial end Academy Award winning film, "IF YOU LOVE THIS PLANET', LAFORTUNE LITTLE THEATRE, TONIGHT, 6:30. 
Dear Karen Larsen: Happy 22nd B-Day to you!! Have a great day or get drcked in the head. Love, Peg. 
COOL BABY!!! Howard Hall Chesesteaks are BURNING DOWN THE HOUSE! Call 8200 between 9 & 11 :30 to order -FREE DELIVERYI!! 
FALL FEST DANCE PICTURES ARE HERE!!! Wed and Thurs in LaFortune. You can order them between 2:00 and 4:30. 
Dear Seattle Steve: Thanks for the great evening Saturday. I hope you had as much fun as I did. Miss Madison 
Cara Thanks for staying up and talking to me OOXX's Maur 
TO THE JUDGES OF 7TH FLOOR GRACE When does court reconvene? THIRD FLOOR-GUlLTV . UNTIL PROVEN tNNOCENT-HOL Y CROSS 
BLOW-OFF BILL. We take great pleasure in informing you that you have officially earned the trtle Bill the STUD. We salute you! Love, Arm & Arm 
DIRTBAG'D' Best In '83 
Time runs through your Wngers; You never hold ft at all till ff's gone. Some fragments still /Inger Uke snow in the spring hanging on. 
-AI Stewart 

The Observer Wednesday, November 16, 1983-page 10 
Accepted unanimously 
Stern replaces O'Brien at NBA 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
AP.\ports Writer 
David J. Stern, the National Basket­
ball Association's No.2 man for the 
past three years, was unanimously 
chosen yesterday by the league's 
owners to succeed the retiring Larry 
O'Brien as NBA commissioner. 
The choice ofStern came less than 

a week after O'Brien announced he 
was stepping down when his term 
expired Ft·b. I. It also came with the 
enthusiastic backing of O'Brien, 
who said, "I couldn't be more 
plea~ed." 
"I love the people, I love the 

players," Stern said. "We have a very 
exciting non-stop game. We believe 
we have great players and solid 
owners. Our television ratings are 
up and our attendance is up. Our 
health is good." 
Although Stern, who is known for 

his experience in marketing and 
television, had been considered a 
front-nmner for the post, the haste 
with which he was chosen was 
something ofa surprise. 
But O'Brien, who said he wanted 
an insider picked, had the item 
placed on the agenda for a Board of 
Governors' meeting called to dis­
cuss the referee's strike. When he 
proposed Stem, the owners quickly 
agreed, going the through the entire 
• • • B-ball 

continuedfrom page 12 
•Dayton -Roosevelt Chapman. That name is all you need to know about the Flyers this season. An Adrian Dantley prototype, Chapman averaged 23 points a game last year and will appear on many All­American teams this year. 
Dayton is beset by the graduation losses of point guard Kevin Conrad and center Mike Reichert. so it may be a difficult season for coach Don Donoher. 
South Carolina has competed with each of these teams for an inde­pendent bid in past seasons, but the Gamecocks have since joined Louis­ville and Memphis State in the Metro Conferem:e. Other independents to watch include Southwestern Louisiana and Su:tson. 
"On Nov.17th, adopt afriend who smokes:' 
Help a friend get through the day without a cigarette They mtght just quit forever. And that's important. Because good friends are hard to find. And even tougher to lose. 
THE GREAT AMERICAN 

t~~~. 


selection process in less than halfan 
hour. 
"We wanted an orderly transition. 
The perception wa~ that he was 
well-trained, knowledgeable and 
ready to step into Commissioner 
O'Brien's shoes," said Richard 
Bloch, owner of the Phoenix Suns 
and chairman ofthe Board ofGover­
nors. 
Bloch s~id there were no objec­tions from the 23 owners when O'Brien recommended Stern for the job. 
Stern, 41, ha~ been associated with the NBA almost continuously since he wa~ graduated from Colum­bia Law School in 1966 and joined the law firm of Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn, which represented the league. 
With the firm, he worked on a number of NBA cases, including the settlement of the lawsuit by Oscar Robenson, which paved the way for the league's merger with the American Basketball Association. 
In September 1978, Stem went on the league's payroll as its first full­time general counsel In 1980, he was named O'Brien's right-hand man -executive vice president for business and legal affairs, with par­ticular responsibility for television, marketing and public relations. 
It is that background that the owners hope will make him ef­fective in a league that has had both image and attendance problems. Stern said he believed the league was healthy in both areas, particular­ly with new owners in Indianapolis 
and  Cleveland,  both  financial  
trouble spots last year.  
He  said  he  expects  television  

coverage to continue to expand, particularly on cable as teams set up their own packages. He also said there is a large demand overseas for television packages of NBA games. 
As an example of countering the image problem, Stern noted the new agreement with the NBA players As­sociation imposing strict penalties -including expulsion from the league -for players caught using il­legal drugs. That agreement was ratified yesterday by the Board of Governors. 
Stem, who grew up in New York City and its suburbs attended Rutgers University. 

SENIORS! 3rd ANNUAL BLOCK PARTY 
this Friday November 18 3:30 · 6:30 in the North Dome of ACC 
FOOD, BEVERAGES, MUSIC AND FUN FOR ALL! MAKE PLANS NOW TO ATTEND! 
ATTENTION ND SMC Council For The Retarded of Logan Center 
will be collecting Air Force Football Tickets for its special clients. Generous students-can donate their tickets between 
4:30 · 6:30 on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday at the dining halls (including St. Mary's). 
Also, anyone interested in helping the Council accompany these special persons to the game should come to Logan Center at 11 :OOam this Saturday. 
Thank you for your cooperation 

Dance Concert "We're On A Roll" 
Saturday, Nov. 19, 8:30pm Sunday, Nov. 20, 1:00pm 
Chautauqua Ballroom Donations Gratefully Accepted 
this Saturday' game againstMichigan as easily as Keith Beyers breaks tackles last Saturday against Northwestern. Ifthe Buckeyes are the victor, they willface Auburn in the Sugar Bowl. See the story on page I 2 for more Bowl game details. 
r-m;-~~;u;;-~u;-, 
'' II
I · minutes from campus 

I 

I I Hair Cut Shampoo I 
I I Blow Dry &Condition 
I 54533 Terrace Lana, 
1' Soutll Band (Across lrOifl Reg. $15-00 
1I Martin's on S.A. 23) 
I Now $8-50 with coupon 
I I T, W 6:30-5:30 offer only applies to male patrons 
I 

Th 6:30-6:30
I 

I 
Fr 6:30-6:00 
s 8:30-2:30
I 

I 277-1691 272·0312 !..••••••••••••••6.50 Savings •••••-•••••••••~ 


r 
~ 

T0 day____________________ ... __ __
w_ed_n_e_s_d_ay._,_N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_16_,_1_9_8_3 P_a_g_e_l_l 




********************* 
******** ******************************** THURSDAY NIGHT 7:00,9:00, 11:00 Engineering Auditorium $1 
Spoa.orecl•y dae Daada'lrlela 


Bloom County Berke Breathed 

rt\AYB€.. 
0 
.0 
/ 


Photius 

0. K EVO?.YON£, SETTlE POWN,
1HANK (;OODIJESS /1 /(S 
Wf.'ft£ JU<;;r HEfi!C ro I'IISS 

FINALLY J.IE"RE.11 
ou.r 8UINK£T5 AND 501'1£ PteOVISION~. 171£ RESCU£ 

8.£VA rok'S OUiiHT TO 8C ii£KE AN'{ DAY. 



Campus 
•1:15 
p.m.-Seminar, "Alumnae Networking for Happiness, Friendship, and Job Search Success," Jeff Roberts and Ms. Leslie Wilson, LeMans Hall, Sponsored by SMC WOW Week 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Atoms, Molecules and Solids in A New Light," Prof Andrew Zangwill, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Lecture, "Specific catalytic and functional pieces of an enzyme produced by deletions of external and internal polypeptide segments," Prof. Paul R Schimmel, 123 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Glycoprotein Specified by Herpes Simplex Virus: Their Roles in Viral Replication," Dr. Patricia Spear, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•6:
15 p.m. -Circle K Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•6:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Selling a Community," Denise Miller, LeMans Boardroom · 

•6:30 
p.m. -Film , "If You Love This Planet," Produced by Dr. Helen Caldicott, LaFortune Little Theatre, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free 

•7 
p.m. -Judicial Board Meeting, 127 Hayes­Healy 

•7 
and 9:20 p.m. -Film, "Romeo and Juliet," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Arts and Letters, · 

•7:30 
p.m. -Concert, Marshall Scott , Faculty Trumpet Recital, Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Men vs. Yugoslavia Na­tional Team, ACC 

•8 
p.m. -Young Democrats Meeting, LaFortune 

•9 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Fallacies ofAbortionJus­tification," Prof. Charles Rice, Notre Dame Uttle Theatre, Sponsored by ND/SMC Right to life 


•4:15  p.m.  - Seminar,  "Samuel  Becket's  
Doomsday Play," Prof James E.  Robinson,  104  
O'Shaughnessy  

TV Tonight 
..---------------------­
Sports 
Wednesday, November 16,1983-page 12 
A bowl bid is on the line against Air Force 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! 
It has been a long time since full practice began in the heat of August, and Gerry Faust and the Fighting Irish have had more ups and downs than a Grace Hall elevator. Needless to say, it ha.~ bet·n a disappointing full for everyone at Notre Dame, especially when one considers the lofty presea.o;on ranking.-; bestowed upon the Irish. Nevertheless, a Liberty Bowl bid could be salvaged this Saturday with a victory over Air Force in the ABC-televised sea.o;on finale at Notre Dame Stadium. 
That victory will not come ea:.-y, though. Under the guidance of head coach Ken Hatfield, the Falcons have risen up from the statusof patsies to bowl contenders in a period of two years. The Irish know they will have to be well-prepared if they arc to shoot down this talented Air Force squad. 
selves to the No. 3 position on theAP Poll. See the 
Farewells and Felicitations ...Saturday afternoon will be the 
story below for more college football informa­
final time for 22 Irish players to charge out ofthe north tunnel in the 
tion. 

Notre Dame blue and gold. While they have suffered many disap­pointments in the last four years, they have also supplied fans with plenty ofthrills during that era. A Sugar Row! trip in 1980, a number· one ranking in '81, the upset win over top-ranked Pitt last season, and a victory in green jerseys over USC this full are just a few ofthe exciting moments Irish fans will remember. Since Bob Hope wa.'i in town last night, it only seems appropriate to say to the seniors,
The bowl bid predictions are out 
"Thanks for the Memories". By HERSCHEL NISSENSON Miami (10-1) looms as the nt>arest -Southern Methodist vs. Alabama; 
There will also be another corps ofseniors who will he putting in their last tour of duty on Saturday ...the managers. Brad Barrett,
AssociatedPress thing to a national championship Bluebonnet Bowl -Baylor vs. Ok­showdown, provided Nebraska lahoma State; Aloha Bowl -UCLA 
Tom Dieckelman, Mike Baumgarten and Co. do an unbelievable job Almost a week before the official defeats Oklahoma on Nov. 26. (provided the Bruins arc not in the 
preparing things for the team each week, and they deserve a tip of the cap for their Herculean efforts throughout the season.
bowl selection date, virtually every· The rest of the Jan. 2 lineup finds Rose Bowl) vs. Penn State; Holiday thing has become semi-official. Georgia in the Cotton Bowl, probab­Bowl -Brigham Young vs. Mis­As usual, despite all the moaning ly against No. 2 Texas; Auburn in the souri; Hall ofFame Bowl-West Vir­and groaning by bowl committees Sugar Bowl against Saturday's ginia vs. Kentucky; and Peach Bowl 
TONIGHT 
last week, the post-season picture Michigan-Ohio State winner; and the -North Carolina vs. Florida State. came into focus Monday. The most loser ofthat game in the Fiesta Bowl 
men's basketball 
surprising development is that Ok­against Pitt; and lllinois in the Rose That leaves the California Bowl, 
vs. Yugoslavia
lahoma, a traditional power, will stay Bowl against either Washington or pairing the champions of the Mid­
8p.m.
home during the holidays for the UCLA. American Conference and the first time as an eligible team since The rest of the picture looks like Pacific Coast Athletic Association, 
ACCArena 
1969 (probation prevented the this: Sooners from going to a bowl in Gator Bowl -Iowa vs. Florida; and the Independence Bowl, with 
1982 .•.Bombing at Falcon Crest ...For II years, Notre Dame 
1973-74). Liberty Bowl -Boston College vs. such teams as Air Force (7-2), East had been able to rely on a victory when they played Air Force. That The Orangt· Bowl matchup oftop­Notre Dame; Florida Citrus Bowl -Carolina (7-3) and Virginia Tech (8­was until last year, when the Falcons upset the Irish, 30-1 7, eliminat. 
ranked Nebraska ( I 1-0) and No. 5 Maryland vs. Tennessee; Sun Bowl 2) available. 
ing Irish hopes for an Astro-Biuebonnet bowl bid. 
Air Force capitalized on key Irish turnovers in the first half to surge to a 17-0 halftime lead. In the second half, the Falcons added insult to injury by driving at will on the Irish defense, with the most embarassing moment of the year coming on a 55-yard quarterback 
sneak by Marty Louthan of Air Force. It is a day the Irish players would like to erase from their memories with a victory on Saturday. 
A look at the 'Independents' 
For the greater part of the 70's, the group of teams 

Air Force's Strategic Plans ...The Falcons have flown to a 7-2 known as the "midwest independents" were quite 
record this season, thanks to an explosive offensive attack. Once
Will Hare 

respected among college basketball circles. The 
again, Marty Louthan pilots the Air Force offense, which runs out ofa foundation ofthis group lied in the three solid programs 
formation called the "flexbone", which is a derivative of the
On Basketball

ofNmre Dame, Marquette, and DePaul. 
wishbone. Louthan is a multiple threat quarterback who can run Digger Phelps had much to do with the changing of 
(648 yards and 15 touchdowns) and pass ( 1,023 yards and 2 TD's) the image ofthe midwest independents. 
with equal efficiency. He has a fine backfield behind him, headed by By bringing players such as Carr, Brokaw, Shumate, 
fullback John Kershner, who has galloped for 713 yards to lead the Dantley, Woolridge, Tripucka, and Paxson to South have a great wealth ofreturning talent led by guard Ken­
Falcon rushing game. Bend, Phelps was able to stop a UCLA 88-game winning ny Patterson and forward Tyrone Corbin. Patterson 
Surprisingly enough, the Air Force does not launch too many strt·ak, heat the Bruins four consecutive times in Pauley beat the Irish with a buzzer shot a year ago and his poise 
passes. However, when Louthan does fire a missile, his target is Pavillion, and coach teams to 20-win seasons seven could keep this club together. 
usually senior wide receiver Mike Kirby ( 32 catches for 738 yards). years in a row. DePaul also brings in 6-9 freshman Dallas Comegys 
The defense is suspect, as they have allowed 21 points a game to Marquette produced equally great players through· from Philadephia's Roman Catholic High. Comegys 
the likes ofTexas-EI Paso and Utah. The Falcons suffer from the size out the 70's. Behind coach AI McGuire, the Warriors (pronounced COMMA-geez) was a consensus high 
problems, as do all military teams, but they are extremely quick. Be were led by stars such as Maurice Lucas, Bo Ellis, Earl school All-American. Add guards Jerry McMillan and 
that as it may, the scoreboard operator could he extremely busy Tatum, Butch Lee, and Sam Worthen. McGuire also took Tony "1)" Jackson to a club which came on strong by 
putting up points on Saturday. his team to the NCAA championship in 1977. reaching the NIT finals at the end oflast season, and you Similarly, Ray Meyer's DePaul Blue Demons find the leader ofthe independent pack. prospered in this era. Standouts Dave Corzine,Joe Pon­•Notre Dame -The Irish are a mystery team. No 
Irish Prepare Counterattack ...While the Falcons arc profi· setto, Gary Garland, Clyde Bradshaw, and Mark Aguirre one, including Phelps, knows how good -or bad ­
cient at running the football, the Irish have a prolific ground game of helped DePaul move out of ancient (and tiny) Alumni this young team will be. 
their own. Allen Pinkett has left no doubt in this reporter's mind that Hall and into the plush confines of the Rosemont After looking at Sunday's scrimmage, all you really 
he is one of the best tailbacks in the nation. The sophomore sensa­Horizon. can gather is that the Irish have many players who can 
tion from Sterling, Va., has amassed an incredible 1, 197 yards this fall But what ha.o; happened to these powers? contribute. Notre Dame will heavily rely on the power 
and is already 13th on the all-time Irish rushing list. He has also tied Marquette was the lone midwest independent to game ofTim Kempton, but by no means is he the only 
the Irish record for touchdowns in a season ( 17), and he needs only make the NCAA tournament a year ago. Even so, the force on the team. However, the youthful Irish will have 
one point to eclipse Red Salmon's Irish scoring mark which ha.'i Warriors squeaked in at 19-9 and many thought their to developgood defense in order to be an NCAA tourna­
stood since 1903. NCAA bid was obligatory because Coach Hank ment contender. 
Through the air, Steve Beuerlein has regained the confidence of Raymonds was resigning. •Marquette -The Warriors have a new coach in 
the coaching staff, following his finest collegiate passing perfor· La.o;t year, Notre Dame ( 19-10), DePaul ( 21-12 ), and Rick Majerus, and no one is better qualified for this job. 
mance last Saturday against Penn State. The Fullerton freshman com­Dayton ( 18-10) all had consistently mediocre seasons. Majerus, 35, has been an assistant for both McGuire and 
pleted 14 of20 aerials for 2 57 yards against the N ittany Lions. MetroSports, the television network of this band of Raymonds for the past eleven years. 
Defense must loom as the big question mark this week, after their t'atholic schools, had to be cringing each time they ut­Marc Marotta is the leader ofthis team which may be 
worst performance ofthe year last weekend. The missed tackles that tered their slogan, "Great Independent Basketball." a little short on talent. Marquette will also be helped by 
were apparent during the five-game winning streak are starting to Will the downward trend continue? junior guard MandyJohnson. The Warriors are depend­
hurt the Irish against the better teams. Add to that point the fact the It is difficult to say, but here is a look at the midwes­ing on freshman Tom Copa to carry the load as the big 
Irish usually have their share of difficulties against a wishbone of­tern independents: man. 
fense, and it becomes apparent defensive coordinatorJim Johnson 
will have his hands full preparing for Saturday's encounter.
•DePaul -"The Coach" is making his grand lilcewell 

see 8-BALL, page 10 -one which could be a 





