

Senate results -page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. S 1 the independent ~tlllknt Ill'\\ ~paper ~en 111g notn d;ulll' and ~aint mar~·~ WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1984 

The Gipper wins another four years in office 
•• 
President wins every state but one in landslide victory 
Assodated Press But Democrats successfully battled against the Reagan tide in district WASHINGTON-Ronald Reagan after district to protect their large 
swept to runaway re-election over majority. 
' 
Walter Mondale last night, but In The Associated Press count, the Republicans struggled to translate electoral votes of South Dakota his landslide into significant gains in pushed his total past the 270 Congress. 'Jbe president won every majority mark. state but Mondale's Minnesota. 1be president said his administra­
The victorious president told tion in the past four years success­cheering supporters in Los Angeles, fully brought inflation and interest "Our work isn't finished, there is rates down, created new jobs, cut much more to be done." He said his government spending, strengthened second term goals were "strong eco· military defense and began to nomic growth without inflation and "restore traditional values in our so· to keep America strong." He said he ciety." hoped to reduce nuclear weapons Mondale's D.C. victory gave him and "ultimately ban them from the three electoral votes. His home state earth entirely." had 10. 
"You ain't seen nothing yet," the Ferraro hailed Mondale in a con­president said In an echo of a cam­cession from New York City, saying paign refrain he repeated all over the he won another battle-"that battle nation in his successful! Mondale's Mi for equal opportunity ... he opened a 
The victorious president told door that will never be closed again" cheering supporters in Los Angeles, by naming her first woman on a na· "Our work isn't finished, there is tional ticket. much more to be done." He said his The president's victory was con· second term goals were "strong eco­vincing; he and Vice President nomic growth without inflation and George Bush came close to the '50· to keep America strong." He said he state sweep they sought. Mondale hoped to reduce nuclear weapons won the District of Columbia and and "ultimately ban them from the claimed victory in his home state of earth entirely." Minnesota. 
"You ain't seen nothing yet," the The largest popular vote in his­president said in an echo of a cam· tory belonged to Lyndon Johnson, paign refrain he repeated all over the elected with 61.05 percent of the nation in his successful drive for re­vote in 1964. election. No matter what the margin,
President Ronald Reagan sbown bere wttb wife 
Mondale conceded defeat, Mondale told his supporters, "I'm at 
Nancy after bisfinal speech oftbe 1984 campaign 
telephoned his congratulations to peace with the knowlege that I gave
Montkly in San Diego. Reagan bas ended all bis 
Reagan and told cheering sup­It everything I've got." porters in St. Paul, Minn., "He has "This fight didn't end tonight. It won. We are all Americans; he is our begins tonight," he said. president and we honor him Mondale praised Ferraro and said, tonight." Democratic running mate "We didn't win, but we made history
Professors react to election results 
Geraldine Ferraro phoned Vice Pres­and that fight has just begun." 
ident George Bush, who praised his The president got news of his vic· By SCOTI BEARBY When asked to comment about quality and did not seem to have Democratic opponent -drawing tory in Los Angeles, where he and his NewsS~Dff what Reagan's second term will much of an effect on the election some jeers from his Houston sup­wife watched the returns in a Cen­
bring, the professors were not ex· results. Schmuhl said the media had porters. tury Plaza Hotel suite equipped with 
ln the wake of Reagan's landslide tremely optimistic. Both Downs and an 'obsession with polls and "She campaigned hard. She was a four television sets. last night, Notre Dame and Saint Francis are doubtful that Reagan can horserace aspects of the campaign." strong opponent," Bush said. He told reporters he hoped to par­Mary's professors expressed differ· continue economic growth in the He said he would have preferred a The GOP renewed its control of ticipate in a summlr with the Soviet ing opinions on its causes and the ef· future. Downs did admit that if the the Senate, even ifby a reduced mar­
see REACTIONS, page 6 see ELECTION, page 6
feet~ a second Reagan term will have president can attain such growth gin, and were gaining in the House. 
campaigns in San Diego, wbicb becalledbis "lucky stop." Story atrlgbt.. 
.on the country. and avoid a skirmish or war the elec· 
Saint Mary's Government Profes· tion "could signify a move towards 
sor Patrick Pierce attributes the vic­the Republican party." 
tory to Reagan's image and not to a Pierce agrees that Reagan will 
How the states voted 
support of his policies. "Public have problems being as effective as 
opinion in 1980 and 1984 was people expect him to be in the 
closer to his opponents' policies second term. He said that Reagan has 
than to Reagan's," said Pierce. alienated members of Congress by 
Donald Downs, assistant profes­going over their heads and obtaining sor ofgovernment and international victories through the people. With studies at Notre Dame, shared the his overwhelming victory Pierce opinion that Reagan's victory was a said he feels Reagan wlll also attempt result of his personal popularity. to generate support for moving far­However, Downs said the re­ther to the right. ele<:tion does show support of Pierce said he was surprised at the Reagan policies, citing the eco­high voter turnout because the race nomy's current good status as an ex­was advertised so widely as a ample of a policy supported by runaway for Reagan. Voter registra­popular opinion. tion had an effect on voter turnout 
Notre Dame Government Depart­according to Downs. He also attrib­ment Chairman Michael Francis said uted the high rate to Reagan's con­the economy was a major issue in troversial nature. the campaign. "Mondale was not The media's role in the election able to convince the people he and the future strategy of the demo­could run tht· economy better than cratic and republican parties were Cartt·r," he said. Francis said that also dis<.:ussed hy the professors. Mondalc t·uuld not convince the "The media did not have an im­voters that Rt·agan's supply-side ceo· pact on the high voter turnout," said nomics was not working. He agreed Notre Dame Assistant Professor of with Pian· that the re-election was American Studies and media critic 
Walter Mondale II Ronald Reagan 0 not a result of public agreement Robert Schmuhl. He said the overall with current policies. media performance was not of high 


The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1984-page 2 


In Brief 
The 1984 world's fair' at least $100 million in debt and just five days from closing its doors in New Orleans, filed for protection from hundreds ofcreditors yesterday under federal bank­ruptcy laws. Poor attendance has turned the fair into a financial dis­aster since its opening May 12. Instead of packing in 12 million free-spending visitors during its 184 days as predicted, the exposi­tion is struggling to reach a total attendance of 7 million by the time it closes Sunday. Williams estimated the fair will end up with a loss of at least II00 million. Other estimates have placed that figure as high as n 70 million. ·AP 
President Augusto Pinochet declared a 
nationwide state of siege yesterday in Santiago, Chile "to end a cri­minal terrorist and subversive onslaught" against his military gov­ernment. Gen. Rene Vidal, commander ofthe Santiago military zone, o:'M:red a nightly curfew in the capital from midnight to 5 a.m. Pinochet's crackdown came a week after eight people died in Marxist-led demonstrations seeking a return to democratic rule. Six policemen died in subsequent terrorist attacks. The main impact of the state ofsiege will be to allow government security forces to hold political suspects incommunicado, in secret locations, indefinitely. ­
AP 
PatNixonwas hospitalizedMonday with a lung 
infection, Nixon's office said. It was the second time this year the 72-year-old former first lady has been treated for a pulmonary infec­tion. The last time was in July. Nixon drove his wife to New York Hospital from their home in Saddle River, N.J., said John Taylor, Nixon's assistant. She will stay for several days for tests and treat­ment, Taylor said. Taylor also said Nixon and his wife had already cast absentee ballots in the general election. -AP 
U.S. Roman Catholic bishops, facing ad­
vance conservative jabs at their assessment ofcapitalism, this Sunday make public the first draft of a major teaching document on the American economy. They have been working on it for about three years, and delayed releasing it until after the election to avoid cam­pagin repercussions. Itcould set off national reaction and debate like that following the bishops' previous condemnation of nuclear war and criticism ofaspects ofU.S. nuclear strategy. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Elkhart Emergency Room Internship 
Program will hold an informational meeting tonight at 7 in Room 104 O'Shaughnessy. All interested students are invited to attend.­
The Observer 
The Center for Social Concerns will spon· 
sor an Elephant Ears lunch tomorrow afternoon from 11:30 until 
1:30. The menu will also include tacos, refried beans and rice. Cost will be three dollars, with proceeds to benefit a service and reflec­tion group in South Bend. -The Observer 
Attention Seniors -Checkmarked course sign-ups for the departments of English, Philosophy, Government and Theol­ogy, will be held tomorrow beginning at 9:30a.m. and not 8 a.m. as previously announced. The sign-ups will be held at Stepan Center. ­
The Observer 

VVeather · 
Partly sunny, breezy and 
warmer today. High in the low 50s. Partly cloudy tonight. Low in the upper 30s to around 
40. Mostly cloudy and warmer tomorrow with a 30 percent chance of showers. High in the up­per 50s to around 60. -AP 


The~Obserwr­
lbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. lbe Observeris published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for HO per year ( S20 per se· mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer is a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Production Consultant ........ Steve Foster 
Design Editor ................. Maureen Murphy 
Design Assistant ........................... Andy Saal 
Typesetters..................................... Vic ScluUi 
Mary Ellen Harrington News Editor ............................... Mark Potter CopyEdttor.................................... Uz Miller Sports Copy Edltor ....................... Phll Wolf VIewpoint Copy Editor ......... Paul Cimino Features Copy Editor ................... Ed Nolan Features Layout......................... Bob Henke ND Day Editor ............................. Earl Baker SMC Day Editor .................... Carolyn Kelly Ad Design ............................John O'Connor Pbotograpber............................. Phil Deeter 


Teacher Evaluation forms can have an effect 
Course and Teacher Evaluation Form: every student 
fills out between four and seven of these forms each 
semester, one for every course ht: or she takes at Saint 
Mary's. The scene is virtually the same for all courses: 
the instructor passes them out during the final 15 
minutes of class, shuts the door behind him or herself 
and waits for the verdict months later. Meanwhile the 
students hastily circle all sixes (if they liked the instruc­
tor, or ifthe course was a blow-oft) or circle all ones (if 
the instructor scheduled class on Fridays before 
breaks). The thrill of getting out of class early at least 
this one time is too tempting, and by doing so students 
relinquish their right to effectively evaluate courses and 
instructors which shape the futures of students and in­
structors. 
The problem may be one ofapathy (necessity forces 
the use ofthis trite word). So the course was a blow-off­
maybe that's what some students look for. Or, maybe 
the course has no reason to be taking up space: class 
space or space in the course 
selection directory. The in­
structor may have been the 
worst, but students relieved 
by just being through with 
evt:~lwJtfi~,
the course, could care less 
about evaluations. Perhaps £v~IA.a+irn-15 
it's just that students are un­
aware of the weight their 
responses carry. 
What ever the reason for student nonchalance, the situation is a problem which should not exist. Promo­tions, salary increases, and tenure are granted based on teachers' contributions to the community, on their publications, on their work in the community, on their membership in professional organizations, on their evaluations by their peers, and on student evaluations. Whik one ofseveral consid­erations, student evaluations are the only avenue for student input. It is a student's right to have 15 minutes to fill out the evaluations, and to remain anonymous without presssure or influence from the instructor. Cir­cling those numbers on the scale from one to six does have an impact· writing additional comments clarifies the evaluation and makes it more meaningful to the in· structor and department chair. 
The process begins when the volunteer student drops the manila envelope containing the evaluations at the Registrar's office. The numbers are compiled and averaged by a computer. The results are then given to Vice President and Dean ofFaculty William Hickey. The originals with comments are sent to each department chair and each teacher gets a copy of his evaluations. There is a semester lag between the time the students fill out the forms and when the information is sent out, 
AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO 

is going AM Stereo begnnning November 5th. 
Your dorm will be going AM Stereo soon--­--or-­stop by the booth in LaFortune and CHECK IT OUT 

AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO 

and while the results may not rnake a difference in a courses this semsester, the information is used in longterm evaluations. The administration, department chairs and instructors eventually see comments stu­dents make and they do make a difference. 
In an effort to identify and qualify problems with the evaluation form the student academic affairs council is distributing a survey this week. One third ofthe sopho­more, junior, and senior classes will be asked to evalu­ate the evaluations. The Faculty Affairs Committee sent 
out a similar survey to fac· ulty. A report based on the student survey will be sent to Hickey and the Faculty M­fairs Committee. The goal is to use this information to make teacher and course evaluations easier to fill out and more relevant, thereby making the form more ap­pealing to students which could result in more valuable evaluations. 
Since the surveys will be sent through the mail, there is no pressure to finish quickly. Taking the time to fill out the surveys will make a difference in the format of the evaluation form, in what it says, and in how it is dis· 

tributed and eventually used. lbe surveys will be ac­cepted even after the due date of Nov. 9, and may be dropped off at the Haggar College Center. 
Taking the time to complete evaluations forms and now, this survey, is exercising students' right to be heard without having to pound on President Duggan's door to demand an audience. 
The Obseroer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, laige-print, wide­column article on the Viewpointpage. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Obseroer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the' views of the editorial board or The Obseroer staff. 
/ 
The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1984-page 3 

Election Task Force reminds students of main issues in election 
By TERRY BLAND 
StDff Reporter 
lbe Election Task Force, a politi­cal action coalition, successfully raised the political consciousness of students during the 1984 presiden­tial election campaign, said Peter Carter, chairman of the Election Task Force. 
"I think the students have not really kept up on the issues very well," said Carter. "Some students have taken the challenge to really look at the issues, but I think some really don't see it as an issue elec­tion. They see it as electing more of an image." 
'lbe Task Force is composed of various campus organizations in­cluding Ground Zero, Women's Caucust:s, Ombudsman and the Stu­dent Lobby Commission. These groups contributed to the success of Election Awareness Week, said Carter. 
"The most successful event was the debate between Bill Healy and Mike Brogloli," said Carter. "It raised a lot of Issues and got people think· ing about the issues." 
Healy, chairman of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's students for Reagan%Bush, said the Task Force did a very good job In getting stu­dent~ Interested in the election. 
"A small group of people worked very hard," said Healy, "There are a lot of problems to get people to work together. Notre Dame has a lot of people who vote absentee, so they really weren't interested in the work of the Ta..~k Force." 
"Considering we just got back from break, the Task Force did a very good job, especially publicity," said Brogloli, chairman of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's student for Mondale I Ferraro. "I really enjoyed the debate. It gave us a chance to present our points ofview." 
The Obseroer presented the issues clearly, Brogloli said, although he wished the newspaper would have presented the issue columns be­tween the camps before fall break. 
The coalition sponsored various debates and open forums, most of which students responded to seriously, Carter said. 
There were, however, a couple of non-serious presentations at the forum. "One was on electing Bill the Cat from Bloom County," said Carter. "But It added some diversity which was good." 
Some events during Election Awareness Week received poor responses, said Carter, citing the low turnout for the debate between the Young Democrats and the College Republicans. The turnout was af­fected by people who already voted through absentee ballots, he said. 
Peggy Healy, publicity director for the Election Task Force, said the week could have been more suc­cessful with more active group par­ticipation. 
Carter got the idea for the Task Force while working in Washington, D.C., last summer. Washington revolves around politics, Carter said, and upon returning to campus he realized how apathetic students were toward the political process. 
Carter wants the Task Force to continue on a permanent basis. However he added that funds would be needed for it to continue. 

Healy views election tallies as 'a mandate' 
By DREW GREELEY 
NewsStDff 
Chairman of the Reagan/Bush Campaign at Notre Dame, Bill Healy, called the election a "mandate in Reagan's favor" and described the results of the election as "fantastic." 
Healy attributed Reagan's win to his sincerity. "Reagan makes deci­sions because they are the best for the country," Healy said, and added, "Reagan is the leadership the U.S. needs right now." 
Healy said Reagan was popular with young voters, and he said felt this was not only a help in Reagan's victory but also a boost to the Re· publican party in the future. 
The Republican party gained 15 house members in the general elec­tion yesterday. Healy described this as a "a good start;" and said "we are moving in the right direction." 
Healy said the Democratic party had "abandoned the middle class," citing this as the reason for their poor showing in the election, al­thouth he said he had "a lot of respect for Walter Mondale." 
Reagan won the election by an electoral vote count of 52 5 to 130 This is the strongest win in presiden­tial history. Reagan won 49 states losing only Minnesota, Mondale's home state, and the District of Co­lumbia. Healy said he expected Reagan to win by,a large margin but he felt Mondale would win more states, in particular Massachusetts. 
Confirmed senate results 

·lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllltiiiiiiiiiHHIHHIIIIIIIII 
I 
I SUMMER JOB APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE : 
i 
IThe Notre Dame Alumni Association, in cooperation with the Career and Placement Services Office, will again sponsor the summer job placement program in 1985. 
! 
luYOU are interested in applying for summer jobs in an alumni Club City, obtain an application from the Alumni Office, 201 Admin. Bldg. 
I Applications must be completed and returned by November 30 
tMIIHitiiiiii....HIIIHIII..........HHIIIIHIIIIIIIHIH,..IIIIIHIMIIII.....HIHMIH...H ..MH...HHIHI........HMIIIIHHIIIIIIIHHI...I< 
Alabama Arkansas Colorado Delaware Georgia Idaho Illinois Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Massachusetts Minnesota Mississippi Montana Nebraska New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico North Carolina Oklahoma Oregon Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas 
VirQinia West \lirginia Wyoming 

You Can Buy This Baby A Lifetime! 
1-t 

Heflin V" Pryor V" Dick Biden V" Nunn V" Busch Simon V" Harkin V" Maher Huddleston Johnston V" Mitchell Kerry Growe Winter Baucus V" Exon V" D'Amours Bradley Pratt Hunt Crozier Hendriksen Pell V" Purvis Cunningham Gore ~ 
'Doggett 
Harrison Rockefeller V" Ryan Smith 
Bethune Armstrong V" Burris Hicks McClure V" Percy Jepsen Kassebaum V" 
1
McConnell V" 
~ 
uncontested 
I 
1
Cohen V" 
I 
Shamie Boschwitz V" Cochran V" Cozzens Hoch Humphrey V" Mochary Domenici / V" Helms V" Boren V" Hatfield V" Leonard Thurmond V" Pressler V" Ashe Gramm V" Warner V" Raese Simpson 
IN ARMY NURSING 
YOU KEEP 


ADDING NEW 
SlOW. 
It's important that you're treated with the dignity and respect accorded an Army officer. And it's important to work in a modern medical cen­ter. earn a top salary. and travel. But perhaps the most important aspect of Army Nursing is the dedication to education. In Army Nursing you have the opportunity to attend professional con­ferences, pursue advanced degrees and study a variety of nursing specialties. 
If you're a student working on your BSN or if you already have a BSN and are registered to practice in the United States or Puerto Rico, look into Armv Nursing. Stop by or call us: 
SGT John Moore 
(815) 727-9120 CALL COLLECT 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. 
BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 

The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1984-page 4 

Hiler wins Third District in upset 
Associated Press  
INDIANAPOLIS-Republican Rep.  
John Hiler, boosted by late returns  
. from  Elkhart  and  Kosciusko  
counties,  came  from  behind  to  
defeat St. Joseph County Prosecutor  
Michael Barnes and win a third term  
in  the  3rd Congressional  District  
yesterday.  
Barnes piled  up  a  15,000  vote  
margin in St. Joseph County, but  
Hiler won Elkhart County by more  
than  10,000 votes  and Kosciusko  
County by more than 8,000.  
With  93  percent  of  the  vote  
counted, Hiler had 99,360 votes, 52  
percent, to 93,227 for Barnes.  
I  Democrat  Rep.  Phil  Sharp,  tar­ 
r  geted for  defeat in Indiana's  2nd  
i  Congressional  District by national  

I 

How the students cast their ballots 
Below are the results of the yes­terday's voting at Stepan Center. 
Results are in percentages. President Governor Attorney General 
Superintendent of Public Instruction Third Congressional District Representative 
Seventh Congressional District Representative (Vote for two) 
Judge ofCircuit Coun County Treasurer County Recorder County Coroner County Surveyor 
~-· 
~lkw ~JP~ll1c~ 
1IJJmilllimlitt~@~ illffiCCo 
Skydiving instruction and Paraplane Flight instruction 
219-586-3580 a....... 219-586-2663 Ho•e 
r.r..o-..o-.r.r-<Y"..r...o-..r.r.r.r..r..o-..o""..o-.r..r.r.r.r.r.r..crJCO""J"'"J"...ocr.r.r..r"N § For "A Night ofFun & Games" ~
I ~
Zahm Hall Thanks: 
~ 
~ Chairman: 
S Co-Chairman: Secretary: Treasurer: 
Section Leaders: ~ 
Fran O,Malley Bill Lane ~ 
Roger Diegel Mike Sullivan ~ 
Shawn Lane Chris Walsh N 
John Rashid Mike Beahan ~ 
The Best Party On Campus! 
and state Republicans, piled up large margins in eastern Indiana counties to defeat Republican challenger Ken MacKenzie and win a sixth term. 
But another incumbent, 8th Dis­trict Democrat Rep. Frank McClos­key, trailed early this morning. State Rep. Rick Mcintyre, R-Bedford, held a 51-to-49 percent lead with 70 per­cent of the votes counted. Tabula­tion of returns in Evansville, the district's largest city, was being delayed by computer problems. 
Sharp, a former college professor from Muncie, won by better than a 2-to-l margin in his .home county, Delaware, and enjoyed large leads in Henry and Wayne counties to o\"trcome MacKenzie's advantage in the Indianapolis suburbs. 
With 83 percent of the vote tab­ulated, Sharp had 92,939 votes, or 
Proceeds to benefit St. Stephan's Parish Guadalupe Society 
t!J ~ C!1 r::? C? 
Republicans  Democrats  
Ronald Reagan 58 Robert Orr 60 Unley Pearson 53 Harold Negley 46  Walter Mondale 41 Wayne Townsend 39 Greg Hahn 47 Ray Scheele 47  
John Hiler 54  Mike Barnes 44  
George Hardestey 23 T. Steinke 22  Patrick Bauer 27 T. Kromkowski 27  
William Means 48 D. Carpenter 45 Louis Mourer 44 R. Magdelinski 52 }. Sporleder 42  John Montgomery 52 W.Doran 55 Wanda Novak 56 Louis Grwinski 48 }. McNamara 57  


at the 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Thurs.,Nov. 8 11:30-12:30 
Tacos, refried beans and rice, Elephant ears and coffee 
54 percent, to 79,796 votes, 46 per­cent, for MacKenzie, a Muncie businessman. 
MacKenzie was carrying the southern and eastern sections of Marion County by more than 7,000 votes. 
"Marion is the hardest area for us," said Sharp, whose old district was redrawn to include the southern In­dianapolis suburbs by the 1981 Gen­eral Assembly. 
"In this district, it's a matter of just piecing together a victory," Sharp said. 
Noting that President Reagan ran far ahead of Democratic presidential nominee Walter F. Mondale in his district, Sharp said, "It does give you a shot in the arm when people make the effort to fight the tide to vote for you." 
I Chris Ishikawa § John Krappman ~ Jeff Sayre ~ Milt Miyashiro ~ 
The Observer/Phil Deeter

Reagan or Mondale? 
Students who live in Indiana and others who chose to vote here rather than using an absentee ballot from their home state were able to make their preference known yesterday atStepan Cen­terfrom 6 a.m. until 6 p.m. Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, reported~y waited in line to cast his vote. 

Reagan's win helps Orr 
Associated Press careful to say nothing more than that I was feeling g9od and very positive. INDIANAPOLIS-GOP Gov. Robert I've been through too many ofthese 
D. Orr, saved by an improving eco­nomy and Ronald Reagan's coattails, beat Democratic rival Wayne Townsend in yesterday's election ­but not by the margin Republicans had predicted. 
With 89 percent of the precincts reporting, Orr led Townsend 53 per­cent to 4 7 percent. 
Republican state chairman·Gor­don K. Durnil had predicted that Orr would swamp Townsend by 300,000 votes, but he won by only 100,000 votes. 
"I'm not surprised," Orr said in an interview last night. "If you've paid any attention to the things I've been saying the last several days, I've been things to have my neck stuck out." 
In 1980, Orr beat Democrat John 
A. Hillenbrand II by 344,000 votes. 
With 63 percent of the 4,752 precincts reporting, Orr and Lt. Gov. John M. Mutz had a 53-to-47 percent lead over Townsend and running mate Ann Delaney. libertarian James Ridenour had less than 1 per­cent of the vote. 
Asked what margin of victory he considered a mandate, the governor replied, "there is a sufficient mandate in a simple victory to move forward with the programs you have in place." 


The rip-roaring comedy show that ~rill knock you 
..  out of your seat!  
I  
-'iE'..' Ylll(l\ I'\)\I  "I\)llrillq l.1)11\P•lll\  COMING TO NOTRE DAME Nov. 10, 8:00pm Washington Hall  

Tickets Available at SAB Record Store $5 

Attention Saint Mary's! 
The Observer needs day editors to work in the office in the Haggar Center. Ifyou are available between 12:30 and 3 p.m. during the week (even during part of the week), give us a call. We'll train you. Call Anne Monastyrski at 239-5313 
The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1984-page 5 


Imagination powerful in business 

ByJOHN WALTERS 
News Staff 
Americans should "never under· 
estimate the power ofinnovation or 
imagination in business," said 
Donald Clark, chairman of the 
board, president and chiefexecutive 
officer of Household International, 
in his talk yesterday in the Hayes­
Healy Auditorium. 
Clark was on campus to speak to students about the effects of deregulation on the financial service industry. His speech was part ofa se­ries sponsored by The Notre Dame Finance Club. 
Clark said there is a cycle or deregulation in our capitalistic soci· ety that impels corporate leaders to react. He said presently a state of "deregulation backlash," exists in which legislation is passed seeking to put tighter restrictions on busi­ness. 
This backlash is a legislative reac­tion to large-scale failures in a deregulated environment. Clark cited the closings of sixty-five banks (the largest number of bank failures in one year since the Depression) this year as an impetus for govern­ment intervention. 
Clark said he believes the market works best for both businesses and consumers when businesses are left alone in terms of regulation. He said It is his job as a corporate head to produce innovation that will allow his business to circumvent govern· ment interference. 
Clark said he sees the eighties as,"chaotic,but a time ofexcitement for the corporate community, par­ticularly the financial services indus­try. Everyone seems to be involving themselves with financial services today." Clark mentioned that busi· nesses such as the American Can· ning Company and even Sears-Roebuck are entering this field, providing many new opportu· nlties for finance and business majors. 
He advised students to seek jobs in industries with exciting futures, where their financial tools ofinnova­tion will be put to the test. Clark said "Deregulation creates much compe· tltlon, but that's the fun ofit." 
The series will close tomorrow af. ternoon at 4 with a talk by Thomas Anderson, chairman and chief exec· utive officer of Kemper Financial Services, Inc., followed by a recep· tion in the Morris Inn. 

Prof calls assassination regrettable, but not unexpected 
By MARY HEILMANN 
News Staff 
The assassination of Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by two Sikh bodyguards, although regrettable as an act of terrorism, was to be ex­pected In view of the political, eco· nomic, and religious persecution of the Sikhs during her tenure, accor· ding to Karamjit Singh Rai, professor ofbiology at Notre Dame. 
In a recent Interview, Rai, an In­dian citizen and member of the Sikh religion, expressed regret at the loss of life, but maintained that "Mrs. 
excesses" concerning the Sikhs. He said that the India Association of Notre Dame "found it ex· pedient...not to utter a word against the carnage of Sikhs" by the Indian government in the past five months. 
As a result of this "outrage," Rai has resigned from the India Associa­tion and has sent letters to both the association and The Obseroer delineating his grievances and those of the Sikh population with the Gandhi Administration. 
According to Rai, political unrest between the Hindu majority in India and the Sikhs, who comprise only not a recent development; it has plagued the 500 year history of the Sikh religion. 
The central problem in the cur­rent dispute is that the government of India has refused to accord Sik· hism its distinct religious status in the Indian Constitution, treating the Sikhs instead as a sect of the Hindu religion. Attempting to protest this omission, the Sikhs have refused to sign the constitution, making them a target for governmental abuses and Hindu terrorism. 
"Sikhism is a distinct religion," Rai points "as distinct from Hin-

You've been studying for hours. The pages are blurring and your stomach is stirring. So why not take a break and call Domino's Pizza? We'll be there with a hot, custom-made pizza in 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed! All of our pizzas are made with 100% real dairy cheese and fresh, not frozen, toppings. Now isn't that worth contemplating! 
Menu 
All Pizzas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and 100% Real Cheese 
Our Superb Cheese Pizza 12"cheese$4.99 
6)
16'. cheese $7.19 
® 
Domino's Deluxe 51tems lor the pnce of 4. Pepperoni. Mushrooms. Omons. Green Peppers and Sausage 12" deluxe$ 8.55 16" deluxe $12.35 
Electives Pepperoni. Mushrooms. Black Olives, On1ons, Green Olives. Sausage. Ground Beef, Ham, Green Peppers. Double Cheese. Extra Thick Crust 12" pizza$ .89 per item 16" pizza $1 .29 per item 
Coke"t16 oz. bottles. 59¢. 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00 
Limited Delivery Area 
Pr.ces do no11nclude app11cable sales lax c 1984 Oom1n0 SP1zza. Inc 
r----------------------,
Pay only $3.99 for a$5.99 12" one item pizza and 2 Cokes• .
Special 

Expires in one week. 
Fast, Free Delivery™ Plaza 23 Center 


1835 South Bend Ave.  
- .  South Bend  
Phone: 277-2151  
•  JTC NA 103 2650  
•  •  ( 1984 Dommo s P1zza. Inc  

~~====~==~~~
.li ® . 
-

L••.:=:=~::. ••·-······-J 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS™ FREE. 

Judaism. Sikhs are simply asking for a cent of the total food grains 
redressal of certain grievances, ine· consumed by Indians, are not ade· 
qualities, and injustices." quately compensated for such high 
These injustices fall into three productivity. categories: religious, economic, and According to Rai, Gandhi's gov­political. In addition to representa· ernment "did not seriously tlon in the constitution, religious negotiate any of these demands. The demands include free broadcast of three times when an agreement was Sikh religious hymns on Indian radio reached between Sikhs and the gov­and the declaration of Amrits as a ernment, Gandhi scuttled it. She did holy city, similar to the several not negotiate sincerely; she kept Hindu holy cities in India. blaming the integrity of the Sikhs." 
Politically, the Sikhs demand a This situation has escalated in 
certain amount of autonomy for all recent years, culminating in govern· Indian states, including Punjab, the ment occupation of the Golden Sikh state. Rai stresses, however, that Temple, the Sikh equivalent of the at no time have the Sikhs threatened 
Vatican, and In the establishment of secession from India; to equate martial law in Punjab. Both acts autonomy with secession is, accor· were accompanied by "the virtual ding to him, "ludicrous." genocide ofthe Sikh population." "We only want proper sharing of Government troops, says Rai, power between the center and the 
have been "scouring the state and a redefining ofcertain poli­
countryside, arresting people by the tical boundaries. Secession was thousands, torturing them and kll· never an issue," Rai said. ling them for no other crime than 
The economic demands of the that they practice a religion different Sikhs · the most complex dichotomy 
from Hinduism." between them and the Hindu 
Commenting on the reprisals majority · are also among the most presently terrorizing the Sikh popu­bitter. Sikhs resent the government 
lation in the wake of Gandhi's a.o;sas· usurpation of the five rivers of Pun· 
sination, Rai says "Hindus burn Sikhs jab and the subsequent and arbitrary 
alive while the soldiers stand by. It's redistribution of these lands to sur­
a holocaust, abetted by the govern­rounding states. A Sikh protest to the 
ment." 
Indian Supreme Court was dis· missed by Gandhi. "I cannot grieve Gandhi's death 
Sikhs also question the fact that alone. I grieve the thousands that their people, who produce sixty per· she has been instrumental in killing." 
wbr fKnigltts oftltr <!Iastlr 

Men's Hair Styling at its finest minutes from ca'!lpus 
s 00 HAIRCUT$ 
-I . ~­

272-0312 . 277-1691 
$8.50 

Haircut shampoo "·•"i.~.~ rnran~ Lane ' blowdr{ (~t. Rd. 2.~) 
Ano~~ from Martm's Hair must be Shampooed day of cut 
We are onlv minutes from campus 
,.. NICK & KENNY'S 
* * SPECIALS* * 
MONDAY. . ... PITCHERS $2.95 TUESDAY.. LITTLE KINGS2/$1.00 WEDNESDAY ........... IMPORTS $1.00 THURSDAY.......... . 25~ BEER FRIDAY &SATURDAY. . . BANDS AND ASSORTED SPECIALS 
r---------------------·-------------------­The Observer 
,.. 
So, what did you think? 

Chairman ofthe Reagan/Bush campaign Bill Healy talks with' an interest­
edstudent at the election night celebration on the second floor ofthe 
LaFortune Student Center. Four large televisions were set up in the ball­
room, and refreshments were served. Student Body President Rob Bertino 
attended. 
Wednesday, November 7, 1984-page 6 
Jesse Jackson targeted speaker for 1985 Black Cultural Arts Festival 
By SCOTI BEARBY ning dorm was Grace Hall for their penny vote will go to the United News Staff 48-hour run for charity, "adopt-a­Way. Last year S600 was raised said floor" with Pasquerilla East and Neil King, photographer for the Former Democratic presidential West, and lecture series. Runner-ups event. 
candidate Jesse Jackson is the tar· were Dillon and Lewis halls. OBUD presented their upcominggeted speaker for the annual Black Mary Ann Roemer, post-graduate evenb to the hall presidents' coun­Cultural Arts Festival said spokes­service opportunities counselor at cil. They will hold a "gripe night" at 
man Greg Martin at last night's hall the Center for Social Concerns, also the North Dining Hall from 4:45 to presidents' council meeting. The addressed the presidents on the 6:45 tonight. Last month between festival, held during February, is de­"Senior Reflection Group" to be 45-55 complaints were heard at the signed to include events which sponsored by the C.S.C. 
South Dining hall; all complaints are "enrich both the Notre Dame/S.t. The program, started three years currently being acted on. 
Mary's and South Bend communit­ago by Roemer, is available to a lim­Tomorrow night OBUD will hold ies." 
ited number ofstudents who wish to their second campus life forum. This 
"Pioneers" will be this year's reflect about their times at college meeting will be held in the New Or­theme, highlighting those people and about what they have learned leans Room of LaFortune with the who have made significant strides in during their years. Roemer also. director of Saint Michael's Laundry the world today. Jackson is available asked for ideas on making the C.S.C. Service. Also, from Nov. 12 to 20 to speak, however, he is currenty as­better known to students. 
OBVD will be sponsoringking between n 5,000 and 25,000 The deadline for entering this "Operation Brainstorm," duringfor his services. year's hall section picture contest which they will be taking any ideas Martin and the Black Cultural Arts sponsored by "The Picture Man" with prizes going to the top three Festival Committee are currently and Domino's Pizza is nearing. students. 
looking for ways to raise the money. Deadline for entry is Nov. 21 with Student Government Vice Presi­Alumni organizations and other the photo deadline being Dec. 7. dent Cathy David. provided the sources are being solicited; campus The winning section, to be deter­presidents with more information 
fund raising efforts are also planned. mined by a penny vote at LaFortune 
on the "I Care Driving Club." The The September Sowder Award for 
Center, will be awarded noo and club originally began in Wisconsin outstanding hail achievement was free pizza and sodafor the section. In and is finding success across the 


--~-------------------------­
The Observer 
Iranians gather in front ofthe former U.S. Embassy in Tehran on the fifth anniversary Sun­day ofits takeover.by the Moslem students, who 
-ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS ­
Sales Career Opportunity We are beginning our search for several exception­al individuals for positions in sales and marketing with our Agency! Backgrounds in the following would find this posi­tion most rewarding and interesting: BUSINESS, FINANCE, BANKING, MARKETING, ACCOUNTING & LAW. To familiarize you with the opportunities of a career in life Insurance and financial services we are con­ducting introductory seminars in our offices on Mon­day, November 12 and Tuesday, November 13 at 10 
a.m. and 3 p.m. each day. By appointment only! 
Call Donna at 234-5600 to arrange an appointment. Attendance Is limited! 
108N. Main 800 JMS Bldg. South Bend, IN 46601 
E.O.E. M/F 
Terrific campus stylecuts at super savings with student I.D. Free gifts & refreshments. 
~ 
YOUR FATHERS MUSTACHE 
F'lmily Hatrstyllng 

University Park Mall 277-3770 
Wednesday, November 7, 1984-page 7 
ThtaJ,. Situation still serious ~:~;:~~::: in India, but riots over 
APPhoto

Remembering the takeover 
then held Embassy personnel and the guards hos­tagefor more than a year. Anti-American ban­ners were displayed during the demonstrations. 
Support the 
Ma!~!l£>LPJ!Jl..e...s _ 
Hey Mate! 
JDbe-~-needsyou.The news department Is accepting applications for 
Copy Editor 
For more Information 
contact Dan, Sarah or Anne 
at 239·5313. Applications 
aredue Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Thursday, Nov. 8 3 p.m. to 9 p.m. Precision Stylecut-Only $7.50 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI, India -A week after 
Indira Gandhi's assassination, oppo­
sition political and religious leaders 
told the new government the situa­
tion was "still serious" throughout 
much of India and urged firm action 
to protect Sikhs from marauding 
Hindus. 
A sikh leader said thousands of 
Sikhs had been killed. 
Indian army troops kept peace in New Delhi and other major cities, where Hindu mobs had ransacked Sikh shops and homes in a four-day frenzy of killing and destruction. The violence broke out after Mrs. Gandhi's assassination last Wednes­day by two men identified as Sikh members of her security staff. 
The United News oflndia said two of the senior police officers respon­sible for Mrs. Gandhi's security-G.R. Gupta, deputy commissioner of police, and D.C. Gulia, the assistant commissioner -had been suspended pending completion of an investiga­tion into her killing. 
Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, the 40-year-old elder son who succeeded his mother hours after 
her death, last Saturday dismissed Lt.  
Gov. P.G. Gavai, New Delhi's top ad­ 
ministrative officer, who was  
criticized for allegedly lax police ef­ 
forts to stop the bloodbath.  
Gandhi issued a statement saying  
his mother's assassination was the  
act of "two misguided individuals"  
and not an action of the entire Sikh  
community.  
He appealed to "all parties and  
groups" to mark tomorrow's an­ 
niversary ofthe birth ofGuru Nanak,  
who founded the Sikh faith in the  
16th century.  
Gandhi yesterday told a delega­ 
tion of ten opposition party leaders  
the government was working to  
recover property looted during the  
riots and would make restitution to  
those who had suffered injury or  
loss.  
Gandhi also said the government  
was considering a request to permit  
resettlement of peopk afraid to  
return to their old neighborhoods.  
"We cannot sacrifice religion for  
our country," Sahib Singh told The  
Associated Press. Reports in Indian news media say more than 1,000 people were killed in the rioting.  ., , 1  
Six killed  
in rioting  , 1 I 1  
Assodated Press  1 1  
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -At least six blacks were killed yester­ 1  
day in clashes with police, raising to  
16 the death toll in two days of  
protests that stemmed from a gen­ 
eral strike in black townships near  
the capital.  
Rioters set fires and threw stones,  
and police responded with tear gas,  
rubber bullets and blasts ofbirdshot,  
and sent hundred~ of officers on  
armored car patrols in Tembisa, east  
ofJohannesburg. Seven people have  
perished in Tembisa during the two­ 
day strike.  
Hundreds of thousands of black  
workers and students stayed home  
Monday in Transvaal province,  
South Africa's industrial center, in  
what organizers said was an unex­ 
pectedly successful demonstration  
of black discontent with the white  
government and its policies ofracial  
separation. Employers said the  
boycott eased only slightly yester­ 
day.  
Police spokesman Lt. Thomas Jef­ 
ferson said that in addition to the  
dead, at least 14 people were injured  
yesterday and more than 40 arrested  
in the townships.  
He said a black woman was killed  
in a stoning incident in Kwazakele,  
near Port Elizabeth, 450 miles south  
ofJohannesburg; another was killed  
in Daveyton, east of Johannesburg;  
two black men were killed during  
crowd attacks on Tembisa, and two  
other black men were killed when  
police fired shotgun blasts at a  
crowd throwing stones at K.at­ 
lehong, near Tembisa.  
Jefferson could not confirm a  
South African Press Association  
report, quoting hospital sources,  
that a 17-year-old youth died of bul­ 
let wounds and nine people were  
wounded by gunfire in At­ 
teridgeville, near Pretoria.  
Vincent Brett ofthe Association of  
Chambers of Commerce said the  
boycott appeared to be about 50  
percent effective in Pretoria and  
Johannesburg, and in industrial  
towns ea.•;t ofJohannesburg.  
In the region south of Johannes­ 
burg, 90 percent of the workers  
went on strike, he said, but nearly all  
employees reported to work west of  
the city, in an area including Soweto,  
the largest black township.  
Police ,spokesmen gave few riot  
details and reporters were barred  
from trouble spots.  

, 
Wednesday, November 7, 1984-page 8 
Accent 
Renaissance art on tour 
artistic advances. Boltraffio's "Study 
for St. Barbara" shows, through its 
geometric clarity and its sensitive 

s_a_mm__JI__o_o__r_e__________~ 
-
featuressta.ffwriter ~ attention to facial features, his mas­tery ofthe Renaissance portrait. This demonstrates one of the tri­
Art 
umphs ofthe exhibition, its showcasing ofpreviously unknown 

A n art critic recently wrote that, catalog. Northern Italian artists who have .I1ifshe lived in Antwerp, Tokyo, In 1981, Dr. Louis Jordan, escaped the attention of art his­or Sydney, she, not one to travel far Curator of the Medieval In-stitute torians outside ofltaly. for an exhibition, would hurry to and the exhibit's organizer; Robert There are also some drawings 
Washington D.C. to see this particu· R. Coleman, ho has been catalogu­from central Italy exhibited. The lar exhibition. This particular ex­ing the Institute's Ambrosiana master artist Raphael towers in hibition is Renaissance Drawings drawings; and Dr. Giulio Bora, of stature in this era; he is represented from The Ambro-siana', and it is the Istituto di Storia dell' arte at the by a study of the "Father With Son here at the Snite Museum ofArt, Universita degli studi di Milano, Possessed by Demons," which was having arrived on October 21. began traveling to the Ambrosiana, prepared for his altar piece 
The exhibition, which will residt: where they made the selections of "Transfiguration." Oddly enough, at the Snite until December 30, is a the drawings to be exhibited. The there is an ongoing argument that collection of 87 drawings. The scholars dealt bravely with the the drawing was done, not by Rap­
r" drawings span the whole Renais­number ofchannels, cultural and hael, but by his pupil, Guilio sance, and were taken from the governmental, that controlled the Romano, a lesser great ofthe 16th 
r" holdings of the Biblioteca fate of the project. They also century. Romano and Polidoro da Ambrosiana in Milan, Italy. The received, fortunately, insurance Caravaggio, another artist of the exhibition is the result ofa three­from the U.S. government; the ex­period, show in their drawings a year project between the Medieval hibition would have been too costly drift towards the Mannerist style, a Institute ofNotre Dame and the to insure otherwise. And, as the style marked by the exaggeration Biblioteca Ambrosiana. The fresh American partner in this project, and distortion of figures. 
pacing ofthe exhibition, the broad the Medieval Institute assumed Importantly, the Ambrosiana 
scope ofstyles and regions responsibility for the exhibition allowed for inclusion of all of its represented, the inclusion of many while it is touring in the United Northern European drawings in the unknown artists, especially those of States. exhibition. The most famous of 
r northern Italy, and, most impor­The Ambrosiana exhibition is these arc II drawings by Albrecht 
r tantly, the sublime beauty of the significant for many reasons. One Durer. The subject matter of 
r drawings convince one that the distinguishing feature of the exhibi­Durer's drawings ranges from Ambrosiana "project" is a complete tion is its length. A normal Ameri­landscapes drawn during his travels 
f success. can tour of foreign works runs for to and from Italy, observations on 
r To explain the impetus behind six months, and appears in three the dress of Nuremburg women, a 
r the Ambrosiana exhibition, one museums; the Ambrosiana exhibi­figure study ofa parrot, to a study Th• Observer/Chri• McLean would discover close ties between tion is running for 13 months and for the famous "Knight On Horse 
the Medieval Institute and the appearing in five museums. There back." The Swiss artist Hans Hol­Biblioteca Ambrosiana. This special are 25 drawings in the exhibition bein the Elder is re-presented by relationship began when the Arch­that have never been exhibited his sensitive silverpoint, "Head ofa 
bishop of Milan, Cardinal Giovanni before, and 11 drawings that have Woman in Profile." Pieter Bruegel Battista Montini, the future Pope never been published before. In the Elder, in his "Landscape With a Paul VI, received a honorary degree other words, before this exhibition, Mill and Two Men Walking", reveals 
from Notre Dame in 1960. He sug­no one in the world, save the his brilliance in capturing the es­gested to Fr. Hesburgh, president of Ambrosiana, knew that these 11 sence of nature. the University, that the Medieval drawings existed. Clearly the There is a dual purpose for the 
Institute reproduce the Ambrosiana exhibition is one of the exhibition "Renaissance Drawings 
Ambrosiana's collection of most important exhibitions ofthe from The Ambrosiana." For con­manuscripts, illuminations, and year, or ofany other year; it is an noisseurs of Renaissance art and art drawings. Prof. Astrik L. Gabriel, once-in-a-lifetime event. historians, the Ambrosiana exhibi­Director ofthe Medieval In-stitute, Let us survey the main features of tion offers a superior opportunity to with Monsignor Angelo Paredi, the exhibit. The earliest group of learn more about this shining era of Director of the Ambrosiana, coor­drawings date from the late 14th human expression. For the general dinated this project. With funding century: the earliest drawing was public, the exhibition offers the from a variety ofsources, most done in 13 70. These drawings, chance for one to see some of the notably the Samuel H. Kress Foun­executed with metalpoint or silver­greatest drawings, drawn by some dation, the Institute reproduced point techniques, are mainly figure ofthe greatest artiSts in history, in a copies ofover 10,000 manuscripts, studies done in the International setting that is outstanding in its black and white photographs of Gothic style. Major artists included intimate, educational format. Dr. 25,000 illuminations, and 12,000 from this period include Pisanello, Jordan says that, "this is an unique drawings, from 1962 to 1972. Gentile da Fabriano, and Stefano da opportunity for the Notre Dame 
In 1978, Dr. Ralph Mcinerny, the Verona. community to view some of the Director of the Medieval Institute, Leonardo Da Vinci's influence greatest artwork of the Italian Re­obtained grants from both the abounds in the next period ofthe naissance." For most students, Andrew Mellon Foundation and the exhibition, the Lombard-Milanese going to an art exhibit is not a fre­National Endowment for the school ofthe early-16th century. quent occurence. I am not one to 
Renaissance drawings on exhibit at the Snite Museum ofArt Humanities, in order to create a This group ofdrawings, almost all wait outside the Snite doors, catalog of the microfilmed studies for paintings, shows such waiting for that magic moment at Ambrosiana collection. The idea of artists as Bernardino Luini, Fran­10 a.m., when the Snite opens. But, an American tour showcasing the cesco Melzi, and Giovanni Antonio sincerely, everyone can gain some­Ambrosiana's finest drawings was Boltraffio successfully melding their thing from the Ambrosiana exhibi­
introduced during work on the native influences with Leonardo's tion. It won't hurt you to try. 
Like to write? 
There will be a meeting for anyone interested in 
Features 
writing for The Observer 
Wednesday, Nov. 7 at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre 
Writing topics include record, movie and book reviews, general human interest articles, and humor columns. 
For more information contact Mary Hea!y at the Observer office, 239-5313. The Observer /Chaitanya Panchal 
Billy Squier rocked the ACC last night before an audience ofenthusiasticfans 
.._________________________________ 




~----~-~ 

--------~---­
Wednesday, November 7, 1984-page 9
Accent 
Four dollar mistake, with an excellent plot 
Shelli Camfield 
features staff writer 
Movies 

D emember when a PG rating ftmeant that Bambi cussed? Or when an R rating meant that Burt could get hit with a fist and shed blood, hut stayed out of the bedroom? Yeah, right. That was when a movie cost seventy-five cents and CroMagnon mommies were taking their loin-clothed children out of the cave to sec a good Saturday afternoon matinee. Unfortunately, the days of Ozzie· and-Harriet-like innocence have gJven way to a new breed of R-ratcd movies that seem to he nothing more than twisted plots· or no plots at all -thinly disguised under a tirade of soft-core porn and bloody violence more uncivilized than the Stone Age ever was! (At least movies weren't so expensive then!) The clincher: just about anyone can see them. 
The epitome of this new breed of B-gradcs is "Body Double." Even our leading man, Jake Scully, suffers from a severe case ofsewer chops and weird fetishes. He and the entire cast, in fact, are a pretty disgusting bunch. Within two minutes of the beginning ofthe movie, we arc treated to the revolt­ing sight ofJake's wife in the act of adultery · and we are spared no detail. From that point on, we arc introduced to a series ofoff-beat kinkines" ranging from voyeurism, exhibitivtlism, and underwear fetishes to porno flicks, public displays ofa blatantly sexual nature, and other similar activities. It is not only nauseating, it gets fairly boring, fast. 

Now, wait just a minute! Sit right back down, and DON'T MOVE until you are finished reading my review. You think this sounds like a good time? You can't wait to rush off and see it? Well, please remember that there is a plot involved, too. Ad­mittedly, itis a good plot, but un· less you were once a child prodigy with an I.Q. of 200, or someone you know saw the movie and told you about it, you will never figure it out until it's too late and you're sick and tired ofeven trying. Besides, it's a long movie, and a person can get awfully frustrated trying to guess who's who and why x did what toy. Because this is a movie review, I will tell you about it briefly without disclosing the "surprise"-and stupid · ending. 
Jake, our main man, is a claustrophobic actor who leaves his wife (you know why) and looks for work elsewhere. Along the way, he meets a stranger who takes great interest in him and offers to let him stay at "a friend's" fabulous Beverly Hills home-in-the-sky. (It's difficult to describe, but suffice it to say that the Jctsons would be envious of this place.) Anyways, Jake· a grooving voyeur · disc.ovcrs that he can look through a telescope and be treated to the sight of a young, rich Beverly Hills wife who takes great pleasure in undressing before unshaded windows and prancing around her 
Guide to the perfect job 
Marc Ramirez 
features staff writer 
Books 


D
own on your luck? Can't find a job? Are you a senior? Don't feel bad, because there's help out there for people like you · real, honest, sincere help, like Charlie Haa~· What Color Is Your Parody?, which like its earlier counterpart, What Color Is Your Parachute?, helps you through the difficult job-finding process. 
Only this book is different. It steers you away from the wrong jobs. 
You don't really want to be a u>rporatc executive, or a person who sits behind a big desk all day long, or a Tupperware salesperson, now do you? Statistics, Haas says, show that fully 40 percent of those earning medical and legal degrees or MBAs become Skid Row al­coholics within six motlths of receiving their degrees. Not a pretty situation. 
So Haas lists several important points to remember right off the bat, the most helpful being those which improve your chances of finding a job, such as being obser­vant and resourceful, knowing what you havt• to offer, being •.vhite and male, and bt:ing a major stock· holder in a Fortune '500 corpora· tion during a hostile takeover situation. 
What Color Is Your Parody? is geared toward giving you the right attitude and ins-and-outs of job hunting, and goes a step further by telling you what kind of jobs to get. Too many times the job-finding process can be summarized as NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO YES, and by the time you find that job in, as usual, the last place you look, you have merely found a "dumb job," a job in which the whole business of"work" is blown up out ofproportion. You can avoid these jobs, though, by keeping clear ofanyplace that reeks of routing slips, hold buttons, overhead projectors, team spirit, Post-Its, suggestion boxes, "This pen stolen from" pens, or Discount Family Fun Days at Marriott's Great America. 
So what jobs are "smart jobs?" Well, prize stroker, for one. One of those gJrls on game shows like "The Price Is Right" or "I.et's Make A Deal" who fondles Samsonite luggage and Amana Touchamatic Radar Ranges for a living. This is the type of job that 1) cannot be even remotely described as work; 2) pays well; 3) requires brief hours; and 4) consists of an activity in itselfso weirdly amusing that it enables the job-holder to save on drugs· in short, a "smart job." 
Other "smart jobs" include gun runner in Macao, reclusive ec­centric billionaire, and profile scout for Dewar's White Label scotch. 
In Chapter 3 ofWhat Color Is Your Parody?, "What Do You Want to Do, and to Whom?", Haas warns that you must decide what your skills arc, and what you want to usc them for, or you may end up writing self-help books. The impor­tant thing to remember is that all skils involve interaction with data (forgJng, shredding, leaking), things (breaking, slipping into briefcase, disguising as legitimate expenses), and people (manipulating, scduc· ing, reducing to babbling jelly). 
What Color Is Your Parody? also details the necessary evils ofwriting resumes, dressing to impress, and job interviews. Haas admonishes novice job-seekers ofthose ques­tions which are illegal for inter­viewers to ask, according to recent court decisions. Examples are: 
Is that a full range of managerial and interactive capa­bilities you have there, or are you justglad to see me? 
Do you feel that the salary we're discussing will enableyou to live reasonab:v well while you payfor having my ••asement remodeled? 
Would you skin a human being with a Buck knife in order to in­crease our market share or brand awareness? 
How do you keep a moron in suspense? 
Haas then informs the reader of 
the ever-increasing importance of 
computer-related careers and 
entrepreneurship. These arc the 
jobs of the future. There is also a 
chapter on midlife career changes. 
Haas details them all well, and 
closes by warning against job bur­
nout: Avoid it, he says. Ideal low­
stress jobs include being an official 
greeter, society matron, Ed 
McMahon, and a refrigerator mag· 
net. 

So if you're down on your luck and up for a few laughs, What Color Is Your Parody? is the job-hunting manual for you. It's an equal oppor­tunity book, and does not dis­criminate on the basis of race, creed, sex or color. As the cover says, it's the first book ofits kind that does a job on you. 
bedroom, entertaining herself. (That's as explicit as I dare get without running the risk ofgetting kicked out ofschool.) He takes great interest in the woman, Gloria, and follows her when she goes out. Soon he discovers that another man is also following her. 
One night, while enjoying his nightly peep-show with Gloria, he witnesses her murder through the telescope. (It's not a pretty sight. The first weapon · the telephone cord-doesn't quite do the trick, so the murderer employs a huge drill instead. Ugly.) The police, who suspect jake when they find him at her home, arc not convinced by his story . In his effort to prove his innocence and find out who really killed Gloria, he journeys through an array ofwild circumstances and experiences before he discovers the surprising truth about who killed his fantasy lady. The pornog· raphy scenes follow, incidentally, so ifyou're the kind ofperson who takes sadistic pleasure in watching your date's face redden and ignite faster than Richard Pryor can say · well, you know what he says · then by all means take her to sec "Body Double." 
At this point in the movie, Jake meets porno queen Holly Body· I'm not kidding, that's her name! · and, with her help, finally arrives at the truth after what seems like hours. Furthermore, he discovers that he has, after all, played a bizarre part as witness to the murder. It is a substan-tial plot. I can't give it all away · not that anyone who ranks above borderline mental illness would actually want to run out and sec this, after I get through with it · but take my word for it: the plot is 
good. It just needs a more suitable  
environment to unfold in.  
Are you still with me? Because,  
for those ofyou who restrained  
yourselves from throwing this  
review aside and grabbing movie  
money to get a cheap thrill, I will  
remind you about the bad news  
concerning the plot. Until you arc  
thoroughly bored with trying, you  
will have a tough time figuring it  
out. And when it finally makes itself  
evident, it proceeds to annoy you  
by repeating itself, because Jake will  
get on the phone and repeat the  
entire thing to the police immedi­ 
ately after the audience finally  
knows what Is going on. This was,  
by the way, one very noticeable weakness in Brian DePalma's  ...,.  
screenplay. It is as ifhe isn't certain  
whether the audient·e has retained  
enough mental energy at this point  
to catch on. Come on, Mr. DePalma!  
You are dealing with some very  
unimpressed individuals at this  
point. Don't make a bad situation  
worse.  
What more can I say? Walking out  
of the theatre, we were greeted by a  
woman with: "Wasn't that a dumb  
movie?" (I wondered ifshe wa~  
hired to do that.)  
Soft-core porn has invaded South  
Bend. My only closing comment is  
that there are better things to do  
with four dollars. Four dollars is  
halfway to buying a Stones tape.  
Four dollars is four Cokes and two  
Milky Ways, depending on whose  
vending machine you usc. Four  
dollars is two-and-a-half Heinckens.  
And, if you are not insulted by  
degrading, smutty movies, four  
dollars is the price just about  
anyone can pay to see the nearest  
thing to X-rated since "Bolero."  

October break, down on the farlll 
by Michael McCabe 
features staff writer 
M
any ofus had enjoyable vaca­tions over break, seeing old friends or visiting new places, or perhaps shopping at big malls in bigger cities. Some, we may assume, had just 'another boring break'. For a certain group ofstudents, Fall break '84 was an unique experience rivalled by few. I'm talking about the Heifer Project International work-camp volunteers. 
What transpired for these people was a revealing, self-fulfilling and valuable week of interaction amid a different way oflifc.lfyou'rc like I was prior to break, a down home urbanite, keep reading and learn about a novel way to enjoy an ex­cursion into farm life. 
The work-camp, as my group was called, consisted often volunteers. Each year, Heifer Project lnterna· tiona! ( H.P.I.) brings several volun­teer groups to work, and live on their farm, while learning from the experience. Located in central Arkansas, H.P.I. is an organization that raises livestock · cows, goats, shecps, pigs · that will one day serve as the main form ofsubsistence for an impoverished family or commu· nity somewhere in the world. 
The livestock are transferred to the needy free ofcharge, for H.P.I. is a non-profit, self-sustaining group that relies on volunteers. The H.P.I oporating philosophy is that the a good life is best brought about by a hand-up, not a hand-out. That ex­plains the reliance on livestock, which do not merely supply the hungry with food for a day or a week or year, but for life: the living gift. The recipients of the livestock receive training in animal hus· bandry and in general maintenance 
before they arc gJvcn animals, thereby assuring H.P.I. and its vol· untccrs that their hand-up will be onto solid footing. In the strictest sense, this philosophy deals with the problem ofhunger by redress· ing the primary cause ofIt in a positive, lasting way. 
Upon our arrival in Perryville, Ark., we were quickly made aware ofour surroundings: the pervasive odor ofyou-know-what filled our nostrils immediately. Work began each morning at 8:00 and lasted until roughly '5:00p.m. Between constructing animal feeders, paint­ing structures the popular barn-red, and tending to the various animals, we all had something challengJng and strenuous to do. Some in our group rose early and milked the cows, while others found that "wrestling" sheep (while clipping their hooves) to be more to their liking. There wa~ even a certain pleasure to be found in cleaning the animal pens (although the pleasure may have only been in the laughter offriends hearing us report on that most humbling task). After four and a half days of these activities, our host..'i released us from friday after­noon's duties and allowed us to 
gather our thoughts in leisure, or, just do whatner we liked. 
Aner commg Dack to school and answering the usual post-break questions from curious friends, I realized that most of the people I know here have never experienced or been to a farm. I won't trade my ... experiences from Heifer Project for anybody else's, and I'm confident that no one else in my group would either. For some ofus it was a once in a lifetime affair. 
----------------------------------------------------~-~---------------------------­
~-­
------------------------------------------------·-----------------------------------­
View~_o__i_n__t____________
w_e_d_n_e_sd_a_y_,N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_7_,1_9_8_4--p·a-ge-10 
The stuff of which nuclear nightmares are made 
Butah! what once bas been shall be no among other things, to assess the values the Soviet Union in terms of my own experi­"strength and pride" that President Reagan morel The groaning earth in travail and in operative in our nation's foriegn policy. Con­ence, I find that I must return to my adoles­seems to value so much. However, if one at­pain Bringsforth its races, but does not trary to the opinion of some, I do not think cence. When I was younger, there were a tends to history, one will see that strength is a restore, And the dead nations never rise that this assessment was beyond the abilities number ofpeople that I considered "evil." My fleeting commodity, and that pride -of the again. of the general population. Foreign policy is piano teacher, the babysitter, and the old man overweaning variety -is very often the -Henry Wadsworth Longfellow really only a name for how a president views next door formed an "evil empire" that harbinger of self-destruction. No nation has his world, and each of us is fit to judge this seemed bent on foiling my best laid plans for ever survived long or well simply by being view in that we all have experience with our having fun However, as I grew older, I dis­stronger and prouder than everyone else. own worlds. Admittedly, a president's world covered that these people possessed qualities Rather, it has been those nations who have 
Vernon Marchal is global, while ours is generallly confined to -both good and bad-remarkably like my own. had intelligent and mature leadership that our homes and to this University. But values It has since-been my experience that the vast have been most successful. are universal, and what we learn from our own majority of people are much like myself: nei­
afterwords 
worlds is relevant to ~ny evaluation of how a ther totally good nor totally evil, but rather a As is evidenced by his view of the Soviet president views his. mixture ofeach. Union in particular and his foreign policy phi­Our relationship with the Soviet Union has Given this experience, 1 am left with a di­losophy in general, President Reagan either been the keystone of U.S. foreign policy for at lemma as to what to think ofPresident Reagan. does not possess or does not see any value in I occasionally have nightmares about nu­least as long as my lifetime. President Reagan Since his view ofthe Soviet Union is obviously this kind of leadership. Instead, he seems to 
clear war. In the worst of these, I find myself has made his view of the Soviet Union very adolescent, I have to wonder whether he think that "strength and pride" are an ade­walking through a scorched and barren clear: he sees it as an "evil empire." He ex­really belkves what he says, or whether he is quate substitute. In any age, this simplistic graveyard, where there stands but one pressed this view earlier in his term, and he saying it because he thinks it is what most view would be a scary thing. In the nuclear tombstone. It is the tombstone for mankind, recently defended it in his debate with Walter people want to hear. In any case, I am age, it is the stuff of which nightmares are and on it is inscribed the preceding quotation Mondale. Reagan's view of the Soviet Union unimpressed with a president who either him­made. from Longfellow. This vision has always struck seems to be an outgrowth of what he sees as self posse~ses a child-like mentality, or who me as being what is at stake with superpower his mandate to restore America's "strength assumes that I do. Vernon Marchal is a senior in the Program foreign policy in the nuclear age. In this and pride." I do not view the Soviet Union as harmless, ofLiberal Studies atNotre Dame and is a reg­presidential election year, we were asked, In order to make sense of Reagan's view of nor do I have anything against the qualities of ular Viewpoint columnist. 
Reagan's foreign policy is nothing to applaud 
As is usually the case in political campaigns, mysterious theme. Often we've heard the bat­Oh yeah, we had that "wonderful" victory gious terrorists. Earlier this fall, another this presidential season was marked by a lot of tle cry:"Over the past four years, we've made in Grenada over those dirty Communists. That bomb, again the work ofthese same terrorists, half-truths and lies from both sides. However, America 1 again!" was supposed to make us feel better after Iran. went off at the U.S. Embassy in Beirut. Reagan, 
What can that possibly mean? By what But it seems pretty hollow considering the while taking the blame, compared the inade­criteria are we Numero Uno? Where do they minimal opposition U.S. troops met there. In quate protection of the embassy to a kitchen Brian McKeon keep the standings for this sort of thing? addition, the Reagan administration is now re-modeling job not quite finished. Unquestionably, the turbulent decades of finding it difficult to pull out of Grenada and How about our illegal activities in the '60's and '70's left America torn, dis­leave a politically stable government Nicaragua? In case you didn't know, the CIA
reflecting 
traught, and in search of direction. Vietnam, agreeable to our interests. Some victory. has been supporting rebels in a "covert effort" 
Watergate, and the Iranian hostage crisis to overthrow the Nicaraguan revolution. there has been one claim in particular which I made their impact on all of us, shaking our. Consider some other aspects of Reagan's Beyond that, the U.S. has been mining can't figure out. self-confidence that we could dominate the foreign policy. Take Lebanon, for example. Nicaraguan harbors, an act which blatantly 
The rhetoric offered by the Reagan camp in world. What, may I ask, has Reagan done to Last year we had the case ofhelpless Marines, ignores international law. When these mini­
the area offoreign policy has centered on one turn this around? their mission ill-defined, falling victim to reli-ngs were made public, the Reagan Administra­tion, knowing full well what ruling would result, decided that the International Court of Justice in The Hague had no jurisdiction. 
This nation, it appears, has begun a"new era
Walking in Indira Gandhi's garden 
ofgood feeling." A lot of this is the result of a rejuvenated economy. But I fail to see how a disjointed foreign policy marked by embarass­She was a lonely little girl, raised by an un­Dorothy Norman, her friend and mine, to army she needed Soviet help, which meant a 
ment has had anything to do with this. happy mother and a high-flown Brahman in­bring a dozen or more writers together for an "non-alignment" policy that really aligned In­tellectual father calledJawaharlal Nehru, who afternoon ofdiscussion with her-not on India dia with the Soviet Union. 
The boast by the Reaganites ("we're 1") it
wrote letters to her from a political jail to ed­but America. We got nowhere, but no other But the: army is strongly staffed by Sikh offi­seems, is rooted in the idea that a new orucate her on world history. visiting head ofstate would have done it. cers whose loyalty she had to keep after the renewed patriotism is sweeping the country.
Her father was a disciple of Mahatma As I watched her over the years of her invasion of the Sikh temple. It was very much R.W. Apple, chief London correspondent forGandhi, who was a familiar at her home, as stormy rule I felt she wanted to be a demo­like Indira's brash self-confidence to restore a the New York Times, wrote a full-lengthwere the other leaders of Indian nationalism. cratic queen, but when she yielded to the in­Sikh lift:time bodyguard who had been feature on this new patriotism that he ob­As she grew to womanhood she watched her fluence ofher son San jay, whom she doted on, dropped from her Security Guard. He was 
served in a visit to the U.S. The Prouder­
father govern India and accompanied him on she became a tyrant queen, making a mockery joined by a fellow Sikh constable who didn't 
Stronger Times, an interesting propaganda
his campaigns, while Indian politics seeped ofconstitutionalforms to imprison thousands. belong there. 
sheet put out by !he Reagan-Bush Committee,
into her bone and brain. So when she walked that morning down the pro-claimed that Mr. Reagan "has somehow
After a spell in the wilderness she regained path ofher wooded compound to her garden 
rekindled the patriotic spirit in the souls ofthe
popularity and power. But with the trauma of for a TV interview with Peter Ustinov, the two 
voters."
her near fall, and Sanjay's death in a stunt guards opened fire and the lonely powerful
Max Lerner 
flight, she was never herself again. lady fell. 
Her prime thrust, to the very end, was to Waiting for her in the garden Ustinov Much of this has to do with Reagan's The Lerner column govern by the centralizing hub of New Delhi, reports that "the birds were chirping" . . . predecessor, jimmy Carter. Carter, mainly for against the rim of the ethnic and linguistic despite the terror not only in India but in the his lack ofability to bring the hostages home, 
states. To do this she had to use the army, as human heart everywhere. 
One day Gandhi was walking in the garden she did against the Sikhs last June in the of his host when a Hindu terrorist, who felt Golden Temple. To build a strong modern (C) I9lN, LOSANGELES TIMES SYNDICATE Gandhi was too close to the Moslems, shot and killed him, and Indira and her father mourned him. 
I came to know them both somewhat during 1959 to '60, when I reported from In­dia and taught at the University of Delhi. 
I was not as impressed with Nehru as some others who thought he was a "world titan." I found him a phrase-maker and charmer, adept at the parliamentary system, but ignorant of economics, an amateur at "planning," inno­cent ofthe realities ofglobal politics which he played at. 
I liked Indira better. At one point in 1960 I interviewed her. We walked in the garden, then sat on a kind of veranda, on a late mor­ning. She was 42, her marriage had been un­happy, she had resigned as head of the Congress Party, and she seemed a lost lady, gentle but with a furtive fire in her. We "talked of anthropology, which she had studied, and oflndian politics, which was really a form ofit. I felt she was realer and grittier than her fa­ther, ifshe could find a way to express it. 
She found it when she became prime mini­ster on her own. Once on a tense New York visit during the Nixon years she asked was perceived as a "wimp." On top of that, he 

gave an ill-advised speech on the "national 
malaise," which didn't exactly cheer anybody 
up. So along comes good ol' Ronnie riding in 
from the West to save the day. While he has 
done a creditable job in some areas, his foreign policy has been, in the words of New York Senator Daniel Moynihan, "no policy at all." But compared to the final year under Carter, anybody would look good. The nation yearned for something to feel good about, and President Reagan, with his reassuring smile and his grandfatherly tone of voice, was just the ticket. 
So are we 1? Well, that claim has no real meaning and is used mainly to appeal to the voter's emotions. At least under President Carter, whose foreign policy was based on human rights, there was some sort of direc­tion. Under Reagan, there appears to be no ap­parent overall goal except to "make us proud again." Unfortunately, its difficult to be proud of his return to Cold War policies that only make the world a more dangerous place in which to live. 
Brian McKeon is a seniorgovernment major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
-------------·-------·-·--·---------------­
"ie~P.-O_i~n_t~------------------------~-------------w_e_d_n_e_sd_a~y~,N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_7~,1~9-8_4__~P~a~ge~ll 
/-=---=-=-::---------;----:--.,.-:----;----:--;P-:-;---:-.0---;--::-;-.~B--::-:---ox_Q:----:-----:---::---:---~
Republica • h the false commitment that the men of Holy
than letting them stay the night. Instead ofhall 
ns are nc
and greedy people 
Dear Editor: 
"lbc longer I live in this nation, the more it 
disgusts me. Slowly hut surely we are becom­
ing an elitist nation. I believe Ronald Reagan 
and the Republican party are perpetuating 
this nation. 
Reagan and the Republicans arc not for the Amcrkan people. Let me rephrase that. They arc for some American people: the rich, white American. Reagan and the Republicans are for a stereotypical American citizen: married, white, upper-middle clao;s and with a blind trust in the government and its leaders. Forget blacks, hispanics, women, divorcees with children, homosexuals, handicapped people, war veterans (our most honorable citizens), eldt·rly, poor people, and college students. To me, these people are just as important as anyone else, yet the Republicans via their budget cuts have eliminated these citizens. In­stead, Republicans build more bombs and create an illusion that America is strong. Ignore the fact that we are writing offothers as unimportant and useless. America is dying in­ternally. If Reagan's policies continue the backbone of this nation, thr-middle class, will die. 
'Ibe average Notre Dame student loves Ronald Reagan and the Republicans. Domers are of Reagan's stock: rich, white and unques­tioning to authority. The domer, llke the Republicans, Is out for himself and to strengthen his grasp on the various power seg­ments ofsociety. 
In a recent letter by Warth and Magill, a comparison wa'i made with Republicans and those who "took the soup." I cannot agree more strongly. Ifyou want to vote on images, illusions and bigger pocketbooks; vote Repub­lican. 'Ibis will surely affirm the elitist stance. To he Republican, I believe one must be rich, greedy, Ignorant or cruel. 
john Oteri Cavanaugh Hall 
Rectors ruin a good weekend for Domers 
Dear Editor: 
I am directing this letter in response to the 
vetoing of the Ul' Sibs Weekend. This action 
scems to me to have been done with such 
close-mindedness on tht· part ofsome rectors 
that it borders on the ridiculous. An adminis­
trative staff which on the one hand begs stu­
dt•nts to seck social altcrnativcs on the other 
hand lets some ofIts members decide that the 
school cannot he bothered with a potentially 
positive alternative. 
It appalls me to know that one of the 
reasons given for the vetoing was the prece­
dcnt weekend oftwo years ago and the excuse 
that it wao; mainly for high school students to 
party with their big brothers and sisters. I 
agree that the partying at the weekend was 
excessive; however, this precedent cannot be 
uscd as an excuse since halls at Notre Dame 
no longer tolerate such dorm room parties. 
Owing to this enforcement of the alcohol 
policy, It seems unlikely that such a scenario 
as took place would be repeated. Another 
excuse, that hall organization of overnight 
visitors was badly mismanaged, Is not a prob­
lem ifone merely takes the initiative to seek a 
more forceful plan. If the Junior Parents 
Weekend committee can come up with an ef­
ficient way to handle such a major event, I am 
sure that a smaller event such as the Ul' Sibs 
Weekend would not be a problem. Yet, seeing 
the number of rectors who did not attend the 
presentation by the Ul' Sibs committee, it is 
clear that no Initiative would be forthcoming 
from those whose minds were already made 
up. 
Furthcrmore, the hall does not have to go 
out ofits way to accomodate the visitors other 
parties, what about organized sports between siblings and their brothers and sisters, or he-tween both and other halls? What about a pic­nic in the quad? Movies in Stepan Center? Use of recreational facilities in Rockne md the ACC? Departmentally-sponsored pi..:senta­tions of academic opportunities here at ND? Activities such as these free rectors from re­sponsibility ofholding hall parties. Were such alternatives discussed, and if so, what was the reason they were not seen as a viable altcrna­tive? I feel that the cancellation of Ul' Sibs 
Weekend is a way of telling potential students of Notre Dame that their presence on campus for a look at campus and academic life is simply too much of a bother. And I cannot think ofa better recruiting scheme than this. 
Robert M. Marovich ,Jr. Alumni Hall 
Republicans do not 
show up for debate 
Dear Editor: 

On Thursday night, Nov. 1, the Election Task Force sponsored a debate between the President of the Young Democrats and a rep­resentative from the College Republicans. I was there. The moderator from the task force was there. The College Republican was not there. Rumor has it he got wobbly knees at the last minute. The debate itself was planned for quite a while. John Hussman, President of the College Republicans, told me before break that either he or another member from his group would participate in the debate. Tom Farnan's name appeared on the press release after break, so everything seemed to be in or­der. My efforts to reach Farnan, however, were futile. His phone was apparently off the hook all day Thursday, making it impossible for me to reach him and plan a format. 
Thursday night, neither Farnan nor anyone else from the College Republicans showed up to debate. No excuses, no efforts to notify anyone; they just plain opted not to show. My preparation for the event was thus a complete waste. What happened College Republicans? Is your man so far ahead in the polls that you cannot defend him? Perhaps your action is simply indicative of the Reagan practice of avoiding press conferences and policy discus­sions. 'Ibe election on Nov. 6, despite prevail­ing Republican attitudes, really is over specific policy views, not just style and rheto­ric. Unfortunately, your action (or inaction) seems to indicate a different view. 
Paul Komyatte President NDI$MC Young Democrats 
Holy Cross calendar contradicts purpose 
Dear Editor: 

At a university where strict ideals are imposed and administrative hypocrisy in con­demned by the student body, we would like to point out an inconsistency that lies among the students. 
In a recent article published by The Observer, the men who have been commis­sioned to compose a "Women of Notre Dame Calendar" discussed this upcoming project. They defined what their criterion would be, insisting that their effort would acknowledge the female students who have contributed most to Notre Dame. The calendar choices would be based, among other things, on ac­complishments, contributions, poise, and grace. Their intentions were dear: these men wanted to avoid the cheap exploitation and somewhat sexual suggestiveness that would accompany the publishing ofa calendar based solely on beauty. 
As the women who were invited for inter­views gradually become known, we can see Cross made. We contend that the choices are well-picked-if they had been based on good looks alone; however, to say that these girls are all well-rounded students who actively participate in the Notre Dame community is an outrageous misconception. It is an exam­pie of the exact kind ofexploitation that Holy Cross had wanted to avoid. Although some of these women do participate in legitimate ex­tracurricular activities, we venture to say that the majority of them are average students with little or no involvement worth noting. We also suggest that of all the well known, outstanding female figures selected even for an initial interview was negligible. 
In addition to this contradiction ofpurpose, the indirect attack on last year's Farley-Walsh "Men of Notre Dame Calendar" was unneces­sary, and indicative ofchauvanistic tendency. The calendar was well done and, although none of the men were chosen specifically for their activities and contributions, we were never hypocritical enough to claim that they would be. 
As residents of Farley Hall, we are outraged at this judgement and we suggest that an apol­ogy is in order not only to Farley and Walsh, but especially to the women of Notre Dame who are true leaders and active participants in the community. 
Concerned Representatives ofFarley Hall 
Facts for Reagan endorsement wrong 
Dear Editor: 

Your endorsement of Ronald Reagan for President is regrettable not only because of the candidate, but because the grounds you give for choosing him are erroneous. For ex­ample, you credit the drop in inflation to Reagan, when in fact it is more properly attrib­uted to Paul Volcker and the policies of the Federal Reserve. You remark that the general business climate is upbeat and that this is due to Reagan's economic policies. Reagan's tax cut program, the foremost component of these policies, did not increase new capital in­vestment as promised, but served only to in­crease the staggering budget deficits. You say that our country is no longer "humbled by in­ternational failure" because Reagan "instills pride and confidence" and does not "languish in ineptitude," yet you fail to note the tragedy in Beirut. The bloody overthrow ofthe regime in Grenada, however unjust, did not serve to redeem the American psyche or establish our place in the world. We will succeed only by exhibiting true leadership not intimidation as Reagan would have. 
You seem to doubt the President's sincerity when dealing with the Soviets. How can his attitude even be questioned when he refers to the USSR as "the evil empire" and promises to leave it "on the ash-heap of history." Such remarks not only make true negotiation diffi­cult, they leave no question as to the Presi­dent's attitude. One should question, rather, Reagan's competence. You fail to address this issue entirely, but instead tout the virtues of "the great father figure, the great com­municator." He is, rather, an actor who portrays American values, but does not em­body them. 
Finally, you fail to mention the effects ofhis "successful" administration upon the poor. Some 35 million are now below the poverty level. The neglect ofsuch an issue only further proves that the supposed "heightened moral awareness" at Notre Dame is a mere appari­tion which fades away in the light ofselfinter­est. 
john McCurry Breen Alumni Hall 
Candidates seldom tell the whole truth 
Dear Editor: 

With reference to Reagan's position on en­vironmental bsues a'i described in Monday's Observer, I would like to question the validity of the first statement, "The President has started a wide reaching revitalization and ex­pansion of the E.P.A." In fact, funding for thc 
E.P.A. has been consistently decreased every year since Reagan took office. His cuts through 1984 total to a 29 percent decrea'ie. The 1985 budget does include a 5 percent in­crease, only to be followed by a reduction to the previous level in 1986. Projections call for a further 10 percent reduction by 1989. 
In addition, outlays for Natural Resources and Environment have also been decreased annually under the President for a total I 1 percent reduction through 1984. The 198'5 budget shows a further 8 percent reduction, and estimates to 1987 would reduce the fun­ding another 10 percent. 
The students for Reagan/Bush were correct in asserting that Reagan supports "a 56 per­cent increase in spending for the 'superfund' program. " Outlays for this program are esti­mated to be S'535 million in 198'5. The stu­dents failed to point out, however, that the Comprehensive Environment Response, Compensation and Uability Act of 1980, com­monly known as Superfund, established a trust fund of S1.6 billion to enable the rapid cleanup of hazardous waste sites. The act expires at the end of 1985, and the total spent will only be S 1.1 billion. In other words, Reagan has budgeted S'SOO million less than Superfund calls for. Of the 546 priority sites mentioned, only six have been cleaned up. One should bear in mind that these "priority" sites represent only a fraction of all the sites that actually need attention. 
We have been inundated with far too much rhetoric and far too few facts this campaign season. Even when the elections are behind us, remember to question and investigate the statistics and claims you hear from candidates and elected officials. They seldom tell the whole story. 
Pam Homer Notre Dame Senior 

Gross injustice to impartial journalism? 
Dear Edt tor: 

I was neither surprised nor disappointed to find that the Observer endorsed President Reagan for re-election. That endorsement did not bother me. What frustrated and dismayed me, however, was the presence of a severely pro-Reagan supplement in the Friday, Nov. 2 paper and the absence of an equally pro­Democratic statement. The Observer, in its context as a student newspaper, hao; a duty to present as objectively as possible both sides of an issue. I highly question this bogus approach to newspaper ethics ofimpartiality. I find this decision to include the pro-Republican docu­ment a blatant and gross injustice with regard 
to  the  goal  of  impartial  presentation  of  
journalism.  
Paulajean Wagener  
Pasquerllla West  

Editor's Note: The insert in last Friday's Observer was a paidpolitical advertisement. The advertisement was paid for by the Reagan-Bus_h '84 Committee. The decision to ron any advertising is made by The Observer's business department -not by the editorial board. The Observerdid not specif­ically solicit that advertisement. 
Letters to the editor may be mailed to The Observer, P.O.Box Q or may be hand delivered to our office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edlfor·tn·Chief. . . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager. . Dave Ta1clet Manag1ng Ed1tor Mark Worscheh Controller . Maripat Horne 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the stude11ts of the News Ed1tor . .... Sarah Hamtlton Advertising Manager . Anne Culligan Universtty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Ed1tor .... Dan McCullough Clfculat1on Manager . . Jeff O'Neill reflect the pol1c1es of the admm1strat1on of e1ther mst1tut10n. The news is reported as Sa1nt Mary's Ed1tor . .. Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager . Kevm Williams accurately and as Oh!ect1vely as possible Uns1gned ecJ1tOr1als represent thn opm1on Sports Ed1tor. Micl1ael Sullivan Production Manager. . . . Chris Bowler of a maJOrity of the Ed1tor1al Board CommentarieS. letters and the lns1cie Column Viewpoint Editor .... Dave Grote Project Manager . . Amy Stephan present the v1ews ot the1r authors. Column space 1s available to all members of the Features £d1tor . Mary Healy community. and the free expression of varymg opm10ns on campus. through letters. Photo Editor. . . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 IS encouraged. 
~------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-

Sports Briefs 
Student basketball ticket applications and pay­ment will be collected this week according to the following schedule: sophomores, grad and law students, today; freshmen, tomorrow. Distribution will be from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. each day.-The Observer 
The ND basketball teams, both the men's and women's, will be having intrasquad games Sunday in the ACC. The women's game will begin at 6:30 p.m., and the men will follow at approximately 7:30 p.m. Student tickets are on sale now for S I at gate IO of the ACC.-The Observer 
The men's volleyball club will be practicing 
tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the ACC pit. -The Observer 
The ND Weightlifting Club will be having its third annual bench press meet this Saturday, Nov. I 0, at 1 p.m. in the third-tloor weight room in the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone, including varsity athletes, who is interested may sign up in the weight room at the Rock or the ACC. An entrance fee of S2 will be charged to pay for awards. -The Observer 
Wednesday, November 7, 1984-page 12 
The Off-Campus basketball team is form­
ing. For information, call Tim at 287-1206 by today. -The Observer 
Club and interhall basketballentries are due today. Rosters and proof of insurance should be submitted to the NVA office. Complete entry rules are available at the office. -The Observer 
Jnterhall hockey entrieS are due at the NVA of­fice today. Complete entry ntles are available at the office. -The Observer 
Squash and table tennis tournaments are being sponsored by NVA. Both tournaments are open to all students, fac­ulty and staff. The registration deadline is today. -The Observer 
A one-on-one basketball tournament is being sponsored by NVA. The tournament will have two divisions for men: those over six feet tall, and those shorter than six feet. Double elimi­nation will be in effect after the second round. The registration deadline at the NVA office is Friday. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 13 
Soccer 
continuedfrom page 16 
course, they have to play in a prelim­inary game which makes it tough for them. Morrissey is very tough, too, although we haven't seen them this year. Stanford is also very strong." 
Dirksen said he is optimistic about his team's chances. 
"We've been preparing hard for the playoffs," he said. "Last year we lost in the semis to Morrissy, which was a big step from the year before when we were 0-6. Hopefully we can make a bigger step and win it all. On any day we can beat anybody." 
lnterhall soccer commissioner Gene O'Connor said he feels that the playoffs will be very tough and th:u every team has a shot at winning the title. 
The first-round games take place this weekend, with the semi-finals next Wednesday. The finals will be held next Sunday, Nov. 18. 

The Ohserr•er Notre Dame office:. located on the third floor of l.aFortun.: 

Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. unci14 p.m.. Monda)' through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary's office. ltKat.:d on the third floor of Haggar College C.:nt.:r, acn·pts dassifieds from J2:j0 p.m. until j p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for n.:xt-day dassifieds is .~ p.m. All classifi.:ds must be prepaid. either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 l'<:nts per five charac·
Classifieds 
ters erda 

l""'enn ::ttate bx.My LAST FRIDAY IN THE ROCK'S WEIGHT 69 THIS WEEKEND. BE THERE. dad, uncle, and their friends will have my I LOST MY PULSAR MAN::. WATCH MY CONGFit JSMAN-MY HERO-MY NEED nCKETS to Penn State. Parents I HEAR SMEGMOND IS GOING AFTER 1 aesperately netMJ 4 
SUMMER EMPLOYER (I HOPEI!) IS want to see first NO football game. Hey, 
ROOM. IF YOU FOUND IT, PLEASE head If I don't get them.call Steph 3738 
COMING FOR THE PENN. STATE they're my parents, what can I say. Please CALL SAM AT 4665.1 NEED IT Ill! GAME. PLEASE SEU ME AT LEAST sell me 2 GA$, 01' I am in the dog's house. LET THEM EAT CAKE!!!! EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 TWO GA nx. I CAN ALSO THROW IN calf Maureen at 1333. 
HUNGRY? CALL THE YEUOW SUB lost brown alligetOI' skin waHet a healthy SOME PENN. STATE STUD nX. THIS LET THEM EAT CAKE!!!! FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO. TH TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. reward offered: please caM 234-2275 if 8-11pm FR-SA8pm-1am 
MAN IS THE CHAIRMAN OF THE you happened to run across II. ask 101' THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS A MA· ORDER YOUR CAKE TODAY FROM
HOUSE PRC>UFE CAUCUS (I'M DES­PERATE I HAD TO MENnON THAT), NO CAKE SERVICE THRU IRISH GAR­
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 P.C. TURE RESPONSE Kathy, OK, so now you got a personal, are you happy? Hope your birthday is
DENS!!! SURPRISE A FRIEND WITH A great. Sorry about the test, but what can a 80 DO YOUR PART TO STAMP OUT 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. UORTION lilY KEEPING THIS MAN MERCY IS FOR THE WEAK B-OAYCAKE TODAY!!!! 
LOST SILVER CHAIN SENTIMENTAL pre-med do? One of ten who are inter­
HAPPY. CAU (277·7570) SAVE THE TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8117 VALUE PLEASE CALL 1718 UNBORNIIIIIII ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC JEFF-Happy Birthday ,cutie!Thanx 101'
ARMY ested. 
ROTC DOI~M RECRUITING THIS putting up with me-"it's a dirty job but
································································ 
WEEK AND NEXT!I!!I SEE YOUR Coming to a flOOI' dance near
WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING. lost: gold ring between Zahm end Lewis I Need It Bad!!!!! One Penn. St. ticket· stu­somebody's got to do it!"TONS of love­272-8827. on Thurs. night. It has sentimental value if dent 01' GA Please call Grace-3781. DORM REP. ON HOW YOU CAN APPLY LIS P.S.Precious says"Bow you:"STORK:BIRD OF PREY" "Wins found call Kim 4205. FOR 3 AND 2 YEAR ROTC SCHOLAR­Wow"(Happy Birthday!) The WHO PUT ANGEL DUST IN MY
································································ 
SHIPS. DRINK AWARD Hands down" ... AL
GET INTO A TOP LAW SCHOOL. HELP! I NEED 4 GA'S FOR PENN Send 101' free infOI'mation now. Indicate FOUND: Silver cross, on Stepan field b& STATE -BIG BUCKS $$,CAU LARRY M. Ramlru le • fool M. Ramlru Ia • "Wins The 'SHES AN OLD FRIEND BUT I 
STIU WANNA MAKE OUT WITH HER'

name, addr-. school. year, major, 01'· tween Stepan Center and Juniper Road 1506 ATTENnON FEATURES WRITERS AT· fool! Go C.Ve!Go ctevelllncll M. 
TENnON FEATURES WRITERS Award" ... Whitey;"Best Shark Dancing In to: PASS (Prolessionai/Greduate School describe fully to daim. PENN ST GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 ATTENnON FEATURES WRITERS AT· 6d Hlstay"... Sick "What Was He Applicants' Support Service), 80 wan St., TENnON FEATURES WRITERS AT· I lost my Pulsar man's watch in the weight 
genizational affiliation and position. Write on Saturday morning. Call 2045 and Ramlrula ugly! Go cave! 
HIGH???" ... NOI'm;"l Got All Choked 
That's 

ite charcoal grey coat with light grey GAS. DAVE 1753 OR STEVE 1695 mandalay meeting this Wednesday night it, PLEASE call Sam at 4665 !!!! ...Benwa. "HaHaHa,STORKER!" ... KEG; EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU stripes. It was from SFA, a reward will be at 7 in the Utile Theatre of Lafortune. "He's just a BURLY Guy" ...Wave MRS. COKER, 233-7009 offered 101' its return, and no questions will •IEED PENN STATE GAs--6's, 4's, 01' There are lots of exciting things to discuss Ok, I know it was all in fun, and you prob­
be asked. If you know of its whereabouts pairs. Call Rob at 3305. and refreshrr,ents will be served so........ ably didn't mean any harm by it. Besides, They want to have a W81 to keep their fac­Do you have a gripe about how your call Frances at284-4241. DON'T MIS!! IT DON'T MISS IT DON'T EVERYBODY would like to have a Texas tories laundry is Then, the BE A PAL! I NEED PENN STATE GA'S MISS IT DON'T MISS IT DON'T MISS IT They want to have a war to keep us on our 
Suite 614, NY, NY 10005 AI Corby's Saturday Night, I lost my favOI'­NEED 4 PENN ST '!'IX--AT LEAST 2 TENTION FEATURES: There will be a room of the Rock tll8t Friday. If you found up,But him" 
done?? attend licence plate which says NOTA OM hang­
OMBUDSMAN CAMPUS UFE FORUM. OR STUD TIX.CALL KATHY 4344SMC. DON'T MIS!! IT DON'T MISS IT DON'T ing on their wall. But I really need it back, kneea MISS IT DOflt'T MISS IT They want to have a W81 tostop us buying
so if you borrowed it from my HONDA last Help!!Desperately need 2 Stu tix 101' Penn Friday, please call Sam )4665 NO QUES­
Japanese McNollla, They want to have a war to stop Industrial 
St. Call Patty at SMC5254 TIONS ASKED!!!! OMBUDSMAN Did you know that khaki and tele­Disease CAMPUS UFE FORUM FOR SALE phone cordto.,. "In" thla y•r? -Dire Straits 
NEED 1 PENN ST tix.Piease call SMC5520 Mr. Norman Muller ANYONE INTERESTED IN Have • complaint?01-.St. Mlchael'a Laundry CANDI.EMAS SACRIFICES? 
Wanna ride to Milwaukee this weekend?? 

MUST SEU IMMEDIATELY •• COM­
Call Pickman x1784 and ask 101' Laura. If so, call Kris 1331PLETE COMPUTER SET-UP APPLE lie 
Thu....:llly, November 8 OBUD GRIPE NIGHT 
(new) Apple lie 64K & monitOI': disk drive; 
7:00PM, Haw Orlaena Rm before it's too late 
Apple Daisywheel letter quality printer,LaFortuna Studant Cant• Applewriter lie software, Basic manual, WANTED Wad.,....y, November 7 
SENIOR CLASS COCKTAIL PARTY! and EC-V surge protector (prevents elct. 
4:45 to 6:45 PM 
ThurSday, November 8, 9PM to lAM damage). Total original purchase price 
ACC Monogram Room HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY (belated) North Dining Hallwas $3455--willing to sell 101' $3000 or WANTED: NO STUDENTS OF ALL Tickets: $3.00 at the door

KIRSTEN!!!

~t offer. AVOID LONG DELAYS IN OR­MAJORS TO MEET WITH THE NOR­Semi-formal Attire 
Mary Healy, I love you (i think) Let's do Love, Weenie 
DERING ONE OF APPLE'S MOST VER· THERN mUST BANK TO DISCUSS 
Free Drinks from 9 to 11' something sometime SATILE & POWERFUL COMPUTERS. CAREER OPPORTUNITlES IN COM­Have • complaint? OJ, Dancing, Food! 
Contact Dr. Dan Rybicki 256-5275 (leave MERCIAL BANKING, TRUST AND 21 10 RequiredEXPERIENCED TYPIST WtU DO message). .,. 
BANKING OPERAnONS, SUPERVI· SENIORS, Monogram Room ThurSday
TYPING Join the Jihad!
SION, MARKEnNG AND CUSTOMER Night· Be there!!! 
CALL: 287-5162 Campus
Two rOOI'n efficiency, furnished, private SERVICE. WHEN: THURSDAY, NOV. 8, Theo MaJore and oth• tnt-'ad etu·
Crusade

entrance, good neighborhood, utilities 1984,7 ·I P.M. WHERE: UNIVERSITY Clanlll: Don't mlu the lnfOI'IIIal
lor

paid 2n-3604/288-0955. CLUB, UPPER LOUNGE. WE ARE dlacuulon with Fr. John Dunna, CSC, SMILES, STOP AND SMEU THE
Cthulhu

LOOKING FORWARD TO TALKING tonight at10 pm In 341 O'Shag. DAISIES! LOVE & STUFF 
SALE-TECHNICS SL-B2 TURNTABLE & WITH YOU! .;..................................................~ ........... 
PIONEER SK-90 (top of its line) PORTA­Help! desperately a rida to EYEBROW,INDEC.
I need ATTENTION:I/2LOST/FOUND BLE. CALL CHAD 1058 I WOULD LIKE A CALC TUTOR FOR Depauw(Greencastle) 01' Indy Nov.9 Call EXPOSURE,ARCO ON 31.1F THIS MAN CALC 125, PLEASE CONTACT PAT AT SMC5520 INTERESTS YOU, CALL KEVIN LEE
Did anyone have • good ttma at Stan­FOR SALE-96" GOLD BROCADE 3055
LOST! LOST! LOST! 3264
fonl'a SYR tnt-"and?
SOFA, EXCEUENT CONDITION, $75; Jaimie O'brien the stud NECKLACE CHRIS GOOD LUCK ON AU YOUR EX­111" GOLD HERRINCHIONE 
DRAFTING TABLE. $25; TWIN BEDS-­COMPLETE, $15 EACH. CAU AFTER ATTENTION THEODORE FLOUNDER 
EXTREIIE S£NnMENTAL VALUE! PART TIME HOSTESS FOR EXECU­AMS THIS WEEK I KNOW YOU'U DO
PITT CLUB THANKSGIVING BUS SIGN 
REWARD IF FOUND 5:30P.M. 25&-3311. TIVE COCKTAIL LOUNGE MONDAY Please contact Liss the Wonderfish im­YOUR BEST, BUT BE SURE TO STUDY 
UPS: Wado~y. November 7, 6-7 CAU 11147 THROUGH THURSDAY FROM 5:00 TO HARD FOR YOUR "METAL" SCIENCE
mediately!

p.m. In L.atortuna Little Th....,, $45 PLEASE! 7:30 P.M. KNOWLEDGE OF BAR TEST!
Rellgtoue Glfta In Sllllnacl Glua 
round trip, $30 one ny. Ou•llona?
Individually handcrafted by The Trap­Mlca-nlca
HELPS APPLY IN PERSON TO: 
c.tiA.J.atl8$7.

pistines. FOI' mOI'e infOI'mation, write HOWARD JOHNSON'S 52939 U.S. 31 Join the "I love Myron" Fan Club. THE RAMBLER AND
TO THE LOST: GOLD TIE BAR BETWEEN NO. SOUTH BEND, IN. GAMBLER AND THE SWEET-TALKING 
Santa Rita Abbey, Box 97, Sonoita, Ban the broom handle! 
Arizona, 85637. 
NORTH DINING HALL AND GRACE MAIL C~,MPAIGNS, MAIL CAM­LADIES' MAN--MOO! HOPE ON YOUR HALL ON THE TUESDAY BEFORE Need ride to Cleveland leaving on·11 /2t. PAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGNS-1:30 BIRTHDAY YOU'RE FEELING UNFET­BREAK. GREAT SENTIMENTAL Will generously share expenses. If you P.M., WED., NOV 7 AND REPEATED HEY GIRLS II Apply now to become Mrs. TERED AND ALIVE!!! HAPPY VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL can help, PLEASE calt Mike at 1688. THURS., NOV. 8, 118 NIEUWLAND SCI­Pete McNulty. If you act befOI'e midnight, BIRTHDAY FROM THE FARLEY 
KEVIN AT 4009, OR 23&-7672. ENCE. PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER you'll receive free, as Pete's gift, a set of HAREMTICKETS RIDE NEEDED TO FT. WAYNE FRI. AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. ALL IN­bal<eware with whiCh to display your ...............................,................................ FOUND LADY'S WATCH 11/01 IN 11/9 LEAVE AROUND 12:30 CAU TERESTE[) STUDENTS INVITED. HEY YOU GUYS! TODAY IS CHRIS
domestic skills. Call him at 2704. 
FRONT OF CAVANAUGH CAU TOM JOHN 2n-5559 JONES' BIRTHDAY! LOVE HIM, 2466 THANK YOU ST. JUDE SQUEEZE HIM, MAKE HIM CRINGE! 
Need Penn State tix-Student 01' G.A. Call Fran2598 
Aida needed to St. Paui/Mpta. 101' ATTENTION GIRLS!! Would you like to Thanksgiving. Willing to leave early!! LOOKING FOR go to the best Christmas fOI'mal with the Hey,Marc Rarnirez--Every time I see your LOST: A PAPER ON C.S. PEIRCE WAS Need Penn State GA tlx to help Frank (Sunday 01' Monday) Celt Mary at 2n-FAME.. FORTUNE .. .AND THE EXCITE· most handsome and exciting guy on face I start laughing so hard my insides LOST ON TUES. LAST WEEK IN CUs­and Judy (My mom and dad) celebrate 
2851. MENT ~~ HAVING YOUR VERY OWN campus? All you have to do is send a wal­are about ready to fall out!Go back to the HING OR THEREABOUTS. PLEASE their annivenl8ry. Call Maria 4174 
BY-UNE'I OKAY ... THE FORTUNE let size photo of yoursefl and a brief middle of nowhere ,because Cleveland's 
CALL MIKE 287-8264 OR RETURN TO Need extra money? St. Mary's Dining Hall PART IS LIMITED, BUT IF YOU LIKE TO description of your interests to: Mike too good 101' you! PHILOSOPHY DEPT. IF FOUND. IT IS 
is interested in hiring Notre Dame and St. WRITE, IF YOU ARE ARTISTIC, OR IF Needs A Date, 2t 9 Grace. OF EXTREME IMPORTANCE FOR MY Mary's students. Applications are YOU SIMPLY HAVE A FUNNY SENSE Need extra money? St. Mary's Dining Hall THESIS. Deeperately ,..., two PENN ST 
available at the Dining Hall Office. OF HUMOII. THE FAME AND EXCITE­is interested in hiring Notre Dame and St. G.A.'SII 
MENT ARE YOURS. COME TO THE KISSY KAT· YOU ARE MISSED Mary's students. Applications are call Tom II you can ltCCOIIIOCieta at
LOST Please hetp me recover my lost WANTED: Ride 01' riders to Plttsbu>'gh 101' OBSERVEil FEATURES MEETING available at the Dining Hall Office. 
Mechanics of Sofida Boote If you have in­1580 Thanksgiving. Leaving Mon. night. 11/19 THIS WEDNESDAY (NOV. 7) AT 7 IN John Tyler at the Nazz--Friday night 9pm­formation 01' my book please call 232­
Cell Liss at 2665 01' Susie ai3425. THE LlffiE THEATRE OF -a great way to start the weekend (101' I need a ride to Philadelphia 101' Thanks· 0912 and talk to John K. 01' leave a LAFORTU~IE AND FINO OUT HOW. NO those who begin their weekend on giving. Will pay usual. Anne 284-5181 message. need Penn State tickets call Jim 277-3616 
EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. Friday). REFRESHMENTS WIU BE SERVED. WOO! Terry Scamb-Today's the big day. LOST: HP IIC CALCULATOR!! IF 
CORDY LOVE IS A LOVE GOD-From Happy 21. Wow Loud and Schna-moo­FOUND CAU MICHEUE 1283. LOST: 
BJR, your ring has been very happy tor tha Love Dertl rah! From one party animal toanother, we LADIES GOLD WRISTWATCH. IF Wanted: 5 Penn St. tix., some in grps. of 2. PERSONALS the past w~k!!! Thank-you fOI' such a SALUTE you! Tiger fans and the wave FOUND CALL AIXA 1283. Call288-9403. $$ 
wonderful v1eekend. and we are going to DREXELUL BURRRNNHAAAMMIII say Happy Birthday. Shalom & Love 
have to improve your average. It looks like Cathleen and Ana P.S. Steve's wife is Lost a silver SEIKO Dual-chronograph 2 USC GA'S FOR SALE. CALL MARY AT SAFE TO THRASH!!! we may be Hall of Fame bound (you can HEY D.J.I LET ME KNOW IF YOU SEE looking for the bathroom we told her to go watch. If found call Scott at 3281. 3741. teach those Southerners how to party!!!) THIS ONE! HA-HA! HAVE A NICE DAY! to Flanner. Canadia Livas, ah? 
...................-............................................. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1984-page 13 
Trammell, the 



Briefs 
Hernandez gets A.L. MVP award 
continuedfrom page I 2 
Assoclated Press in 1971, and Denny McLain of lowed by Detroit's Kirk Gibson with Detroit, the last Tiger MVP, swept 96, Tony Armas of Boston with 87LeMans Hallwon the Saint Mary's flag football champion­
NEW YORK -Relief ace Willie the awards in 1968. and the Yankees' Dave Winfield withship ll!st Sunday by shutting out Regina Hall, 6-0. LeMans, which Hernandez of the world champion Three National League pitchers -83.
finished the season with a 6-0 record, earned its berth in the finals 
Detroit Tigers was named the Most bob Gibson of St. Louis in 1968, Detroit's Alanwith a 12-6 double-overtime victory against Holy Cross Hall, which Valuable Player in the American Sandy Koufax ofLos Angeles in 1963 World Series MVP, was ninth withfinished the season at 3-3. Regina topped McCandless, 12-7, in the League yeMerday, his second major and Don Newcombe ofthe Brooklyn 76 and Willie Wilson of Kansas City semifinals and finished 4-2 on the year. Holy Cross ended the season postseason award. Dodgers in l9S6-scored Cy Young had 61, completing the top 10.
at 2-3. Augusta Hall was l-3 and McCandless lost all five ofits games. ­
Hernandez, who saved 32 games and MVP sweeps. Baltimore's Cal 
The Obseroer 
in 33 opportunities and posted a 9-3 Hernandez received 16 of the 28 year's At MVP with record with a 1.92 earned run first-place votes and totaled 306 received just one average, won the AL Cy Young points in outdistancing Minnesota for a single point In this year's dec­The NVA "Turkey Shoot" will be held Nov. 13 
Award last week. · first baseman Kent Hrbek, who had tion. and IS. The team target-shooting competition Is open to teams of 
"After last week, winning the Cy five first-place votes and 247 points. two men and two women each. Equipment and supervision will be 
Young Award, a lot of the people Hrbek batted .311 with 27 home Hernandez, a veteran left-hander provided. "Ibe deadline to reserve a time at the NVA office Is Friday.­
were telling me I was the one who runs and I 07 runs batted in, leading who had managed just 27 saves in 
The Obserr•c>r 
was supposed to win this," said Her­the Twins into surprising pennant seven previous 
nandez, who was reached at his contention last season. seasons, was acquired by Detroit In a 
grandfather's home in San Juan, Dan Quisenberry, bullpen star for four-player spring trade and quickly 
Puerto Rico. "But it's unbelievable, the Kansas City Royals, finished became the ace of the Tiger bullpen. 
Basketball and hockey officials are needed 
winning these two awards in the third with five first-place votes and He teamed with for the interhall season. Anyone interested should apply at the NVA 
same year for a reliefpitcher ... It was 235 points. Quisenberry had a 6-3 Aurelio Lopez to give the Tigers air­office. -The Obserr•c>r 
like I have another win, like winning record and 44 saves, one short ofhis tight relief pitching the World Series again. major league record. opened with a 3S-5 record and led "I feel very proud of myself. I Baltimore first baseman Eddie the AL cast throughout the season. know the people in Puerto Rico feel Murray finished fourth in the ballot­Hernandez recorded the final outs
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday 
very proud." ing, receiving the other two first­in the Tigers' division-clinching vic­through "lbursday until 4 p.m. at The Obseroer office on the third He became the fourth American place votes and 197 points. tory, the last game of the AL playoffsfloor of LaFortune. Briefs must be written clearly. -The Obseroer League pitcher to win both awards. Don Mattingly of the New York against Kansas City and Rollie Fingers of Milwaukee did It in Yankees, the AL batting champion, game of the WQrld Series against San 1981, Oakland's Vida Blue won both finished fifth with 113 points, fol-Diego. 
Texas slips to third in AP Top Twenty poll 
Basketball 
Assodated Press Saturday with a berth in the Rose Oklahoma, bouncing back from APTopT-.ty
ticket 
Bowl at stake, remained No. I -the its first loss of the year with a 49-7 The Top Twenty college foolballtMma In The Al­
aoc/aled Preas poll, with first-piece vot• In pwen­
Jeff Ward's two late field goals last first team this season to do so for pounding ofMissouri, moved up one lh-.this MUOn's recorda and total polnta. Polnta 
Saturday kept the University of four weeks in a row. The Huskies, 9-notch to ninth with 686 points. Bos­baaed on 20-HHB-17 etc. Notre Dame opponenta are Italicized. 
distribution 
Texas unbeaten-but didn't keep the 0 after a 44-14 battering of Califor­ton College, ninth a week ago, Longhorns from being kicked out of nia, received 50 of 58 first-place tumbled to 16th after a 37-30 loss to 
1. Wuhlngton (50)
second place in The Associated votes and 1,14 7 of a possible 1,160 Penn State. Florida, 13th last week,
Today: 
2. Nebruka (4)
PresS college football poll. points from a nationwide panel of rounded out the Top Ten this week 3. Texu(1) Texas, which slipped past Texas sports writers and sportscasters. with 665 points. 4. Brigham Young (3) 
5. South CMoliM.
sophomores 
Tech 13-10, improving its record to The St>cond Ten consisted of 
6. Miami, Fla. 6-0-1, slipped to third in this week's Brigham Young, receiving the Florida State, I.SU, Ohio State, South­7. Otdahoma State 
grad students 
8. Georgia
rankings, receiving one first-place remaining three first-place votes and ern Cal, Texas Christian, Boston Col­
9. Otdahoma
law students 
vote and 1,032 points, 30 fewer than 1,008 points, retained its fourth­lege, Southern Methodist, Iowa, tO. Florida runner-up Nebraska, In the balloting place position. South Carolina, West Virginia and Auburn, which 
11. 
Florida State 

12. 
LSU


announced yesterday. The Cornhus­Miami (Fla.), Oklahoma State and was No. 1 in the preseason poll. 
13. Ohio State 
Tomorrow: 
kers, 8-1 following a 44-0 rout of Georgia likewise were unchanged, Last week, it was Auburn, West 14. Southern CeJ 
15. Texu Christian
Iowa State, received four first-place In the fourth-through-eighth berths. Virginia, Florida, Florida State, I.SU, 
16. Boaton College votes. South Carolina received 921 points, Ohio State, Iowa, Southern Cal, SMU 17. So. Methodist
freshmen 
18. Iowa
Washington, which meets the Miami 832, Oklahoma State 781 and and TCU. There are no new teams in 
19. Weet Virginia University of Southern California Georgia 719. this week's Top Twenty_:_ 20. Auburn 
Ripkcn Jr., last 322 points, I Oth-place vote 
major league 
right-hander as the club 
the final 
lH)-0 8-1-o 6-D-1 lH)-0 
8-o-o 
8-2-o 
7-1-o 7-1-o 6-1-1 6-1-1 6-1-1 6-1-1 7-2-o 7-1-o 7-1-o 6-2-o 6-2-o 6-2-1 7-2-o 6-3-o 1,147 
1,062 1,032 1,008 
D21 
832 
781 
719 
686 
665 
509 
481 
467 
403 
310 
258 164 158 
102 
92 

N.-&anc......_ MONEY?? Telephone Sales • Experience pN(erred but not required. Pmor FuD time. CAUIM-1571  
TYPING Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing Call Chris at: 234-8997  
All the New DIRECT SALE COMICS · now available EVERY FRIDAY 12:00NOON Also. 1.OOO's of bock issues! MICOMIX STORE 1346 Mishawaka Ave. open 7daysaweek phone: 11 :00am-9:00pm 234-1038  

The Observer Wednesday, November 7, 1984-page 14 
Faust knows he has to win more at Notre Dame 
By HAL BOCK 
AssociatedPress 
The handshake is firm, accompa­
nied by an arm around the shoulder, 
a warm greeting just a step short of 
an embrace. Gerry Faust is glad to 
see you. Step right in. 
The office is like a museum, recall­
ing the glory offootball past at Notre 
Dame, the pictures ofRockne, Leahy 
and Parseghian adorning the walls. 
Enthusiasm for the school and team 
is everywhere, especially behind the 
coach's desk, especially following an 
unexpected victory over previously 
unbeaten Louisiana State and a near­
miracle comeback to beat Navy. 
Yet, these are troubled times for 
the 49-year-old Faust, and the room, 
tinier than the quarters occupied by 
most head coaches, is almost like a 
bunker. He is largely insulated from 
the stream of controversy his three­
and-a-half-year stewardship of the 
Irish football program has produced. 
After a loss -and there have been 
many of them -there are 200 letters 
a day, as many as 30 phone calls a 
day, many from disgruntled Notre 
Dame fans, disgusted with 
mediocrity. Faust sees and hears 
only a smattering of them. Inside his 
corner office, success is always just a 
break or two away. 
"I felt it was going to be better than it has been by this time," he began, his raspy voice sounding strained. He slouched on a sofa, one leg draped over the side. "It's a chal­lenge. I like challenges. I like to see them work out. 
"The record is disappointing, but you can build on it. Sometimes, too much is made ofit when you're win­ning and too much is made of it when you're losing." 
Nowhere, though, is losing tolerated less than at Notre Dame and Faust knows it. "They parade through here because ofit," he said, referring to the long line of media guests he's entertained. "They don't go to see Perkins or Bo or Foge." 
Ray Perkins, Bo Schembechler and Foge Fazio are struggling through difficult seasons at Alabama, Michigan and Pitt. But their prob­lems are not magnified the way Faust's have been. Losing at Notre Dame, it seems, is a national aJJront. 
It's taken two straight victories to lift the Irish to 5-4. They could just as easily be 2-7. There was a last­quarter recovery to beat Michigan State 24-20, a 16-14 victory over Missouri preserved only when the Tigers missed a 39-yard field goal on the final play ofthe game, and an It­point rally in the final two-and-a-half minutes to beat Navy, 18-17. 
This, in a year that was supposed to be Notre Dame's season. For the first time, Faust had a team which he had built himself, constructed com­pletely of players he had recruited. "I felt it would be a good year," Ath­letic Director Gene Corrigan said. "More things were in place." 
The Irish were ranked eighth in The Associated Press pre-season poll, a tribute mostly to Faust's recruiting. Notre Dame had come up with a number ofwidely pursued blue chip players and seemed ready to roll. 
Except when the season started. 
Playing Purdue, a team it had walloped 52-6 last season, Notre Dame lost its opener 23-21. Then came three straight victories against Michigan State, Colorado and Mis­souri. Now 3-1, the Irish were back in the poll, ranked No. 17. 
Then, disaster. Three straight losses at home -the first time that's happened to a Notre Dame team since 1956. Miami drilled the Irish, 31-13, Air Force beat them, 21-7, and South Carolina won, 36-32, after Notre Dame blew a 26-14 fourth­quarter lead. 
Down to 3-4, the season seemed in shambles, especially with un­beaten LSU up next. But inex­plicably, the Irish reversed the tumble, ignoring punishing heat and hostile road fans to win, 30-22. 
The victory was greeted emotion­
ally by the coach, who called it a 
new beginning for his program. That 
was the same thing he said last year 
when Notre Dame beat Boston Col­
lege, 19-18, in the Uberty Bowl. 
There was considerable debate on 
campus over whether Notre Dame 
should have gone to that bowl game, 
after three straight November losses 
that left the team's record at a shaky 
6-5. 
After this year's South Carolina 
loss, Faust insisted his team still 
could go 7-4 and be invited to a 
bowl. To do that, the Irish needed to 
sweep their last four games against 
LSU, Navy, Penn State and Southern 
California. They are halfway there, 
but there is little indication that they 
will be invited to a bowl or would 
accept a bid. 
The irony of Faust's situation is 
that when his team beats a quality 
opponent like LSU, it raises ques­
tions not about the players but 
rather about the coaching. If the 
Irish can beat LSU, critics reason, 

then why can't they beat the Air. 
Force, which has beaten Faust's 
teams three straight years? Why 
must they struggle against Navy? 
"It was a hair-raiser," Faust said 
after beating the Midshipmen on a 
field goal with 14 seconds left in the 
game. "It was a good comeback. 
There have been a lot of great ones 
in Notre Dame history. This was not 
oneofthem." 
Trailing 17-7 with four minutes to 
play, the Irish rallied. On the 
sidelines, Faust assured them they 
could. "I told them we had to score, 
get a two-point conversion and a 
field goal. I told them we still had a 
chance." 
Running back Allen Pinkett, Notre 
Dame's No. 2 all-time rusher, ran for 
165 yards against Navy and caught 
the 29-yard pass that positioned the 
ball for the winning field goal. He 
was gratified with the victory, even 
if it was tenuous. 
"We'll take them any way we can 
get them," Pinkett said. "Every win is 
important for the coach. It seems his 
livelihood depends on it. That's ter­
rible. It's just a football game, not life 
and death. 
"I feel all the criticism he's had is 
unjustified. If he had shoulder pads 
and a helmet, maybe he could take 
some of the blame. It's on the 
players, not the coach. It's up to us to 
execute and get the job done. How 
can it be his fault? He's on the 
sidelines. We have the plays." 
From Faust's perspective, the 
plays are starting to work. 
"We're starting to click now," he 
said. "It takes time. We can have a 
good season. Not a great season, but 
a good one." 
Good seasons, though, simply are. not good enough here. Under the Golden Dome, where the ghosts of Rockne and the Gipper roam, where the Four Horsemen, Leahy and Par­seghian created football legends, great seasons are expected. 
Faust has not come close. 
With two games left in his fourth season here, he has a 2 3-19-1 record that includes are all sorts ofnegative numbers. He was 5-6 the first year, then 6-4-1 and 7-5. Against Top Twenty teams, Faust's Notre Dame record is a dismal 5-9. At home, his teams are only 1 0-10. In nationally televised games, where the famed "Subway Alumni" have their oppor­tunity to see the Irish play, Faust is 4-1 0 -and that includes victories the last two weeks over LSU and Navy. 
In 18 years at Cincinnati's Moeller High S<'hool, Faust's teams went 174-17-2, an avex-age ofless than one defeat a season. It was that record of success and his ebullient personalty that led Father Edmund Joyce, Notre Dame's vice president, to hire Faust in 1980. The new coach seemed to fill what FatherJoyce has outlined as the university's qualifications for the job -integrity; a leader ofmen and an educator not interested just in win­ning but in the welfare of those who play for him; competence in his field; and experience with success. 

The only question seemed to be problems. That's the~ view ofParseg­near achieving the record he had the ability of a high school coach to hian, who had a 95-1 7-4 record in 11 hoped for. Common sense says he switch to the high profile of Notre years as Notre Dame's coach. must take a look and see the effect." Dame, perhaps the most visible col­"Ifyou really evaluate it, he's a vic­Faust insists he will not walk away. lege football job in the country. lhe tim of his own enthusiasm," Parseg­"Winning is the only thing that's a last time the University decided to hian said. "He went out and question right now. Whep you win, go that route was with Terry Bren­recruited the best players and talked you're a good coach. We've won, but nan, who followed Leahy in 1954. about what a great team he had. The not enough." Granted a three-year contract, Bren­enthusiasm of the alumni and the "The record to me is disappoint­nan produced records of9-1 and 8-2 community was on a high note. You ing," Gene Corrigan said. "It's not in his first two seasons. When it measure results against expectation. something you want to stand up and dipped to 2-8 in 1956, the vultures When the expectation is not defend. It's the hardest thing in the began circling. He remained two realized, the disappointment is world to talk about." more years (7-3 and 6-4) before greater. Corrigan, hired to succeed Moose being replaced. "IfI'm a coach, I don't tell you I'm Krause as athletic director, arrived 
going to go undefeated or I'm going at Notre Dame about a month after 
So, in five seasons, Brennan as­to win a national championship. Faust. They are neighbors and sembled a 32-18 record. Faust has That gets everybody so excited. friends, yet the coach insists on call­lost one more game than that in less When you don't realize those expec­ing his boss Mr. Corrigan. And Mr. than four seasons. In fact, in 97 years tations, the accompanying rumbles Corrigan knows that the bottom line of Notre Dame football covering 23 are amplified." at any university athletic depart­other coaches, only Joe Kuharich Parseghian has been one ofFaust's ment is wins and losses. At Notre lost more games than Faust. staunchest supporters, but he, too, Dame, it's wins. Forget the losses. Kuharich was 17-23 in the four has been disappointed. "As long as they're keeping score, seasons between Brennan and Ara "My concern are the fundamental you might as well win. Our job is not Parseghian. errors being repeated," he said. to come up with excuses why we're 
The failures have frustrated Faust "This is nine weeks into the season. not winning. Our job is to win. and those around him. He hao; one Against Navy, th(~y had to call time When you don't, there's not much year left on his five-year contract out on the second play of the game you can do. You don't want to blame and Notre Dame has made it clear because of some confusion. These the coach, but you do." that it honors contracts. But even are fundamental things. That's my The coach and the athletic direc­Faust, the ultimate optimist, concern." tor have talked about the situation. recognizes that he needs dramatic Parseghian, who still lives in South Often. improvement to stay beyond next Bend, sees the pressure building on "Last season we had a serious talk season. Faust. "He has to measure the im­about his future before the bowl 
"If we win next year, I'd say yes, pact," the ex-coach said. "If it were game," Corrigan said. "We thought it I'd stay; yes, Notre Dame would me and the seao;on had ended, I'd would be awfully difficult around keep me. We can't be 6-5. We've got probably sit down and talk with my here ifwe lost that game. That's one to be 8-3 or 9-2. But I understand family. I know it's got to hurt, regard­of the chances of taking a bowl that. I don't know if I'd want to stay if less of the front he puts up. You game. He was not going to be fired we didn't have a good year." know he's wounded. He's a sensitive then, but his image and the school's 
Ironically, Faust's eternal op­man, responsive to criticism. This is image would come into play. timism may have caused a lot of his the fourth year and he is nowhere "Gerry knows he has to win." 


NOV7 DANCE VIDEOS 9-close on the WIDE SCREEN
w 

$1.00IMPORTS ~ 
NOVS DANCE VIDEOS 9-close 
75 drafts -~7
Th 
~?Q):
$1.10 mixed drinks 

NOV9 QUARTER BEERS 
F 9-close DJ Kevin Bolin NOVlO OPEN TO ALL 


s Dancing, food, friends 
sponsored lJy Emil Hofman and Freshman Year ofStudies 


Coming Soon •.. Dec. 1 
THE BOBS 

A San Francisco band in their first Midwest appearance!! 





T0 day____________________
w_e_d_n_e_sd_a_y_,_N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_7_._1_9_8_4__p_a_g_e_l_5 



Bloom County Berke Breathed 


The Far Side Gary Larson 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 32 Hurling 52 Words at 9 Cheerleader weapons the altar sound 33 Adjust 55 Comment 10 Separate 1 Lively 34 Guidonian about Jack 11 Jungle celebration note Sprat sound 5 Speed 59 Ring stone 12 Belltone detector 36 Dry as dust 60 Passageway 13 Ruin 10 Far East 37 Between: 18 Mine language prel. 61 Hair style entrances 38 Declaim 62 Dry river 19 Oust 14 Maple wildly bed 23 Air. Vii· family 39 Apply 63 Elected I age 15 Fla. city friction 64 Eng. river 
16 Lunchtime 24 Among the 
17 "And ye 40 Unrelenting missingshall 41 Desert DOWN 25 Plaintiff eat-" spots 26 Public 
20 Poetic 42 Poolroom 1 Portal meetingcontraction 
expert 2 Steady pain 21 Tapered 3 Suggestive 27 Accused's 
seam 45 Maize units look story 22 Zodiac sign 46 Relative 4 Remark by 28 Actor James 23 Respectful of inc. Sandy? 29 Rocket type 
title 5 Turning 24 R-Roger 
6 Acidic 30 Smallest 47 Neckpiece condition quantity26 Early movie 50 Hillside 7 Insane 31 Santa's comic In Scot. 8 Hqt. work crew 
32 Toper's 48 Onion retreat 49 School: 35 Roman abbr. 
bronze 50 Tops 37 Roman road 51 Sound in 38 Air. coun· breathing 
cil 52 Uncertain 40 Hopeless 
mix-up 53 Mend 41 Frequently 54 Indian 43 Orange oil 56 --tzu 44 Winged 57 Ladle 47 Stage pre-58 Cereal 
sentation grass 
Tuesday's Solution 

Campus 
•3:30p.m.-Seminar, 
Dr. Michael Bragg, Ohio State University, Room 356 Fitzpatrick, Sponsored by Aero/Mech Engineering Depts. 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, Dr. Thomas Anderson, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Kemper Financial Services, Inc. , Kemper Investors Life Insurance Co., Hayes Healy Auditorium. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Shape Change & Phase Transitions In Rapidly Rotating Nuclei," Dr. Peter Ring, Technical University of Munich , Visiting Professor at Lawrence Berkeley Labora­tory, 118 Nieuwland. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "The Hor­monal Control of Oocyte Final Maturation & Ovulation in Teleost Fish," Dr. Frederick Gotez, ND, Room 278 Galvin. 

•4:40 
· 6:45 p.m. -OBUD Gripe Night, North Dining Hall. 

•6: 
1 5 p.m. -Circle K Meeting, CSC, Sponsored by Circle K. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Toastmasters International, Organization to Improve Public Speaking, Room 223 Hayes Healy. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Mail Campaign Presentation, For All Interest Students, Paul Reynolds, Asst. Director, Career & Placement Services, I 18 Nieuwland , Sponsored by Career & Placement Services . Free. 

•
7 p.m. -Wednesday NightFilm Series, "Clash by Night," O'Shaughnessy Hall !.oft. 

•7 
& 9:30p.m. & 12 a.m. -Film,"One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1. 

•7 
p.m.-Informational Meeting, El Carte Emer· gency Room Internship Program, All Interested Students Must Attend, 104 O'Shaughnessy. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "Social & Economic Develop­ment for the Poor," Fr. Patrick Sullivan, ND, Little Theatre, LaFortune, Sponsored by Pope John Paul II Lecture Series, 5th of 7 Lectures. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Faculty Senate Meeting, Room 202 CCE. 

•8 
· I 0 p.m. -Presentation%Reception, National Broadcasting Co. (NBC), For Math, Math-Comp, CAPP, Mgt. and MIS Seniors, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services, Free. 

•10 
p.m.-Discussion, Fr.John Dunne, C.S.C., :H1 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Theology Forum. 



©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Blow on O(ier to the... 
SABRecord Store 
Pick up the new album you've been wanting! 
S~orts 
'Steady Eddie' Willen brink scores consistently for Irish 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame cross-country run­ner Ed Willenbrink is called "Steady Eddie" by both his teammates and coach. This nickname, given to Willenbrink be­cause of his consistency, seems es­pecially appropriate this year. In the five meets in which the Irish have participated. this senior has been a scoring runner in four. 
The Irish opened the season with a five-team meet, which included Northwestern and Ohio State, two strong teams. Willenbrink placed tenth overall and fifth for Notre Dame (the top five from each team count in the scoring) with a time of 
25:04.1. He followed that perfor­mance with a 14th-place finish over­all in a time of 24:35.0 at the National Catholic Meet. This placed Willenbrink fourth among Irish run­ners. 
One week later at the prestigious Notre Dame Invitational, Wil­lenbrink surprised himself and had his best meet of the year and of his college career. He placed 12th over­all and second for the Irish in a career best time of 24:29.2 for the five-mile course. 
At the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet Willenbrink ended in I 5th place overall and was Notre Dame's fifth runner. 
Next, at the Midwestern City Con­ference Meet in Indianapolis, Wil­lenbrink's scoring string finally came to an end. He placed sixth on the team, but eighth overall, with a time of26:28.9. 
Before the year began, the success ofthis year's cross-country team was uncertain. This is due to the fact that three of the top four runners from 1983 graduated, while some of the returning runners had not proven themselves consistently in the past. 
Willenbrink's consistency is one reason why the Irish cross-country team is undefeated after five chal­lenging meets. Notre Dame is ranked 17th in the national coaches' poll, as the Irish enter the NCAA Dis­trict IV Qualifying Meet this weekend at Illinois. 
"Each year our goal as a team is to make it to the NCAA's," Willenbrink said. "In the past four years I always felt that we were capable, but we haven't made it yet. This is a surpris­ing year because we've done so well, and I'm confident about the NCAA's. We've gotten lucky because wev'e had no injuries this year, but wer'e a hard-working group and that's what did it for us." 
'He's been one of our steadiest runners all year. He's ... done a fine job.' 
-Joe Piane 
Willenbrink's career began in the sixth grade when he started to run distances on his own. This early start paid off, as he was a four-year letter­winner in both cross country and track at his high school, St. Xavier Prep, in Louisville, Ky. 
After high school, Willenbrink knew he was destined to attend Notre Dame. His father is an alumnus, and his older brother was a senior when Ed enrolled as a fresh­man. 
He made the team his freshman year, but did not run on the varsity. He ran well in a few track meets, which gave him confidence and caused him to train hard the follow­ing summer, Willenbrink said. 
During his sophomore year Wil­lenbrink got the chance to run on the varsity because many people suf­fered injuries. He made the most of his opportunity by placing first in meets against Ohio State and Florida State, setting a career best time of 
25:17.4 in the Notre Dame Invita­tional. As a result of his fine year, he earned a monogram. 
Willenbrink, an architecture major, spent the 1982 school year studying in Rome. He trained during the year, but the lack ofcompetition in meets and races hurt him, he said. 
Ed came back to Notre Damt: in 1983, but had a disappointing year. He placed tenth in the Ohio State dual meet and 13th in the Midwes­tern City Conference Meet, but overall it was an off year. He ran well during the track season, with his specialty being the 10,000 meters, and trained hard during the summer to prepare himselffor his final year. 
Irish head coach Joe Piane gave further credibility for Willenbrink's nickname. 
"He's been one of our steadiest runners all year, Piane said. •· He's been consistent all year and has done a fine job. Ed ran especially well at the Notre Dame Invitational, when he finished second for us." 
Willenbrink plans to continue to run after graduation. He aims to run in marathons, which is ihe event he feels he is ultimately suited for. He entered a marathon in his freshman year andfinished with a time of 2:42. 
The Irish have a strong chance of qualifying for the NCAA's for the first time in Piane's ten-year career as the Irish coach. One ofthe main re:asons for the Irish success this year is the consistency of "Steady Eddie'' Wil­lenbrink. 
Morrissey favored 
Wednesday, November 7, 1984-page 16 

Notre Dame basketball trl-captain jim Dolan and his teammates will open the newseason informally this Sunday with an intrasquadgame in theACC. The women's team also willplay a scrimmage 5unday, and the two games are columnist Chuck Freeby's Pick of the Week Freeby's column appears below. 

Interhall soccer playoffs begin 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Writer 
Unbeaten and defending cham­pion Morrissey leads a seven-team field into this year's interhall soccer playoffs begining today. 
Striker Division champion Morris­sey (7-0 and the number one seed in the draw) received a first-round bye, as did Sting Division champion Stan­ford(6-0). 
The Cosmos Division ended in a three-way tie between Off-Campus A, Grace and Holy Cross. Each finished the season with a 4-1 record. 
In a preliminary-round game, Off­Campus will play Grace, a rematch of a game that Off-Campus won, 2-0, during the season. The winner of this contest will play Striker runner­up Alumni ( 6-I ) in the first round. The winner of that first-round game will face unbeaten Stanford in the semi-finals. 
In the other bracket's first-round game, Holy Cross, which qualified for the playoffs by edging Dillon on a last-second goal in its final regular-season game, faces Sting Division runner up Flanner ( 6-1 ). 
Holy Cross won a coin toss to avoid playing a preliminary game. Number one Morrissey awaits the winner of the Holy Cross-Flanner game in the semi-finals. 
However, Holy Cross Coach Bob Dirksen said he feels that Off­Campus is the team to beat. 
"Off-Campus was the toughest team we faced all year," Dirksen said. "Of 
see SOCCER, page 12 

Week without football provides time to reflect 
Hello again, everybody! 
A week without football has given a battered Irish team 
time to lick its wounds and prepare for the challenge of 
Penn State in two weeks. It also has given this reporter a 
chance to clean out his files and make a few comments on a 
variety of things. 
•First of all, let's put the issue of Gerry Faust's future as football coach to rest. Notre Dame is intent on honoring its contract with Faust which terminates at the end of next season. Therefore, the only way Gerry Faust is going to leave Notre Dame prior to that time is to resign. So, reporters, being the kind of people they are, ask Faust the obvious question: Have you considered resigning at the end ofthe season? ~ 
"No, sir" is Faust's reply. End of issue. 
•Faust's clarity in answering that question is typical of his plainspoken manner. Nevertheless, the Irish coach is the victim of an occasional malapropism. At a recent press conference, Faust answered a question concerning parity in college football by saying "Parity in college football has become more equalized over the last few years." 
This quote is only surpassed by a previous Faust quote in which he was referring to an article that apparently misquoted Steve Beuerlein. Faust said, "Steve was quoted out of content." 
Of course, it's our place to criticize beacuse we know reporters never make misteaks ... uh, mistakes. 
•One guy who hasn't made a lot of mistakes this year is John Carney. The sophomore placekicker has been a pleas­ant surprise this season, and he has been one of the biggest Irish heroes in recent weeks with his clutch field goals. 
Saturday's performance at Navy left Carney at 1 1-for-13 on the year in the field goal department -an admirable percentage. Nevertheless, if the Irish coaches had their 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 


way, Carney would be kicking more extra points than field goals. 
•The Irish in the Cherry Bowl? That's one oftlie rumors making the rounds concerning possible bowl bids for Notre Dame. Other bowls also being mentioned are the Hall of Fame Bowl and the Freedom Bowl. Of course, all this speculation is based on the rather large assumption that the Irish will beat Penn State or USC before bids go out on Nov. 24. 
While the Cherry Bowl is new, it should not be scoffed at since it offers $1 milljon to participating teams. The only drawback is the fact that the bowl is played in Detroit, and unless you have fire insurance on your car, you may be better offwatching the game on 1V. ::r Jl, it's an idea worth considering, because somebody will make an offer ifNotre Dame goes 6-5. Whether the Irish would accept or not is another matter. 
•The talk of the campus this week, though, has not been the play ofthe Irish football team last week at Navy, but the large crowds on hand for the opening of the Irish hockey season. A raucous group of students composed the majority of the 1,826 fans on Friday and the assemblage of 1,601 spectators on Saturday night. In fact, Friday night's crowd caused ACC officials to set up bleachers on the south side of the hockey rink. 
Now, there's no need to get carried away, as the num­bers this weekend still do not compare with the capacity crowd of4,300 that used to jam the north dome during the glory years ofthe Irish hockey team. However, this should put an end to any doubts people had about student support for hockey. 
The word is starting to spread that the hockey rink can be a fun place to spend a Friday or Saturday night, and don't be surprised if the Irish are able to draw 2,500 by season's end. 
The best bargain around may be a student season bas­ketball ticket. Nobody is thrilled about paying S56, but when you spread that out over 16 games it comes to S3.50 per game. Compare that to other universities, and it's not too bad. 
The biggest complaint last year was the fact that many people didn't want to pay that kind of money to watch Lafayette and Valparaiso come into the ACC and get knocked around. However, the home schedule this year is much more impressive. Among the teams coming to South Bend are Indiana, Dayton, DePaul, Syracuse, Washington, Brigham Young and Marquette. With that kind of competi­tion to watch, one doesn't mind an occasional St. Francis (Penn.) or Loyola ( Md. ). 
Pick of the Week ... On the subject of basketball, there will be plenty of action coming up this Sunday under the south dome of the ACC as the season kicks off with the annual intrasquad games. Coach Mary DiStanislao's wo­men's basketball team takes the court at 6:30 p.m., while Digger Phelps' men's basketball team is slated for a 7:30 
p.m. tipoff. 

Cost for students is $1, but the proceeds go to Logan Center and the Neighborhood Study Help Program, so it is well worth the price of admission. It will be your first chance to see what the freshman class looks like, as well as how much the veterans have improved during the last year. 







