
:---------~----------­
Irish Extra -page 11 

VOL XIX, NO. 20 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1984 

Corby Tavern reopens after nearly $13,000 in back taxes are paid 
By MARGARET FOSMOE Jr.'s house, at 2609 York Road, to f:xecuttve lidt.lor pick up some files. "He (Rowley Jr.) was going to 
Some of the uncertainties cloud­meet me at Corby's a little after ing the future of Corby Tavern were eight. When 1 didn't return, he came cleared up yesterday, when nearly looking for me," said Eichorst. S I 3,000 in past emplt)yment taxes "I went over to his house and ap­wen:: paid to the Internal Revenue parently surprised (the assailants)," Service. he said. "They had a gun and put it to 
lbe popular student bar my head and told me to lay on the reopened last night, 28 days after floor. They put two pillowcases over 
1. R.S. officials seized the bar and my head and tied me to a chair in the threatened to sell it within 30 days dining room." for non-payment of taxes. Eichorst said approximately two 
"Our goal was to get it opened and half hours later he was moved hdore the first home football and tied to a chair in a bedroom. He weekend, and we've apparently ac­estimates he was In the bedroom for complished that," said Michael an hour and a half. Scope:litis, attorney for Rose Rowley. Eichorst said there was definitely Rose Rowley, of Orland Park, 111., is "more than one" assailant, but he the administrator of C.T.l., Inc., the could not determine how many corporation which owns the bar. people were present. "During the She is the widow of Harold Rowley whole night there was somebody Jr., the owner of the corporation, checking me all the time," he said. 
This boom-boom girl bad to fight off several The Dillon pep ral~y, a campus tradttion, also 
who was killed in an execution-style "Conversation was muffied and it 
ardent admirers at last night's pep rally in front of featured a stirring rendttion of the Dillon Hall 
shooting in his home Aug. I. was hard to hear what they were Dillon Hall. (S)he was one of a group of lovely 
song by a group oftoga· wearing freshmen. 
More than seven weeks after the saying. I didn't really hear anything 
ladies dancing on stage during tbe annual event. 
shooting, uncertainties continue to until the shots were fired," he said. cloud the murder investigation. Rowley Jr. was shot at close range Captain Charles Mabank ofthe South once in the chest and twice in the Bend Police Detective Bureau said back of the head, according . to yesterday that there was "no prog­police. 

Area businesses to sponsor festival 
ress to report" on the investigation. "When the first shots were fired, I No motive or suspects in the started to break loose," said Eic­ByJEFF NIEKELSKI owner ofa nearby laundromat. The Festival will be in the parking slaying have been released. horst. "I didn't know it was him NewsSUl/J The Shamrock Business Associa­lot of the Goodwill Store and will in­
James Eichorst, operations (Rowley Jr.) until I broke loose and tion is a group of local business dude a Mexican food booth and a manager ofthe tavern under Rowley went out and saw him lying on the The Northeast Fall Festival '84 owners working together for the barbecue pig roast booth. Also, all Jr., told Tbe Obseroer that Rowley Jr. floor," he said. He said he freed him­will be held Sunday from noon to 6 neighborhood. "We try to get a used merchandise at Goodwill will had never mentioned any threats self by breaking the arms of the p.m. at the Goodwill Plaza at the cor­forum for businesses in the area and be half-priced. against his life. Eichorst was in chair. ner ofHoward and Eddy Streets. The solve the mutual problems we In addition to fundraislng, festival Rowley Jr.'s house when the bar Eichorst estimates he broke loose Festival, coordinated by the Sham­have," Slatt said. Goals of the group coordinators hope to "bridge the owner was murdered. "30 to 4 5 seconds after they (the as­rock Business Association, will in­include street and sidewalk im­gap between the Notre Dame and 
Rowley Jr. and Eichorst had gone sailants) left." After seeing Rowley clude food, pop, beer, a bake sale, provements, Increased police South Bend communities." Working to dinner with another businessman Jr.'s body, Eichorst said, he ran out of and a dunk tank featuring Notre protection for the public, and under the motto "Where Notre from the Five Points area on the the house and flagged down a police Dame and South Bend celebrities. housing renovations. Dame Meets South Bend," Slatt and night of the shooting. said Eichorst. squad car several blocks away. Raising money for improvements his Shamrock partners hope for a Eichorst would not reveal the other Approximately a week after the in the five corners area is the pur­"We have an undeserved bad turnout large enough to make an '85 man's identity, saying only that it murder, said Eichorst, three men pose ofthe festival, sponsored by the reputation in the area due to press version ofthe Northeast Fall Festival was "not one of the other bar came to his house and assaulted his Shamrock Business Association and coverage, and we want to develop a possible. owners" in the area. father. The men were looking for the Northeast Neighborhood Asso­positive attitude toward the five "This is our first big effort to Im­
Eichorst said he left the two other him (Eichorst), said Eichorst. ciation. "We want to make the five. points," Slatt said. Members ofSham­prove the corners," said Slatt. "It will men at a restaurant "a little after "I think after all the publicity points area a safe and clean place for rock Include owners of the bars, gas be a great opportunity for everyone seven" the evening of the shooting. students and our neighbors," said station, laundromat, and Goodwill to have some great beer and food 
see CORBY'S, page 3 
He said he planned to stop at Rowley Phil Slatt, Shamrock member and store located at the five corners. and raise money for a worthy cause." 
Sidewalk to replace roadway near Le~ans, O'Laughlin 
• 
By BETH WHELPLEY These changes are the result of NewsSUl/f · questions concerning pedestrian safety on the roadway. A committee Plans for the construction of a composed of representatives from sidewalk In lieu of the present road­both the convent and the College way between O'Laughlin was formed in October 1983 and Auditorium and LeMans Hall at Saint hired the architectural firm of Mary's are well under way. Borger/Jones Associates to lnvesti· 
In October, while students are on gate alternatives to the potentially mldsemester break, the roadway hazardous situation. 
will be dosed. It will then be Anne Reed, director of public re­landscaped, and a turn-around area lations, called the current situation a for shuttle buses will be con­"bottleneck", citing cars parked on structed. alternate sides of the road and con· 
According to Director ofAdminis­sistent parking lot traffic. Although trative Services, Bob Foldes!, Reed admits there Is no record of construction should end within 10 previous accidents, she says there days, after which the area will be have been "several near misses" and opened solely for pedestrian traffic. feels there Is "an accident waiting to Drivers using the LeMan.~ parking lot happen." will turn from the main gate road­"I think the most difficult thing 
Angela Strougel atzd Vivian Ostrowski cross tbe way on to the Madaleva street and go about this is having the driver get­mad in front ofLeMans Hall at Saint Mary's while around the north loop. Drivers will ting used to taking the alternate several cars also try to use the roadway. The con­a pedestrian walkway andshuttle bus turnaround. then enter the Le Mans lot through route...it is a matter of re-training flict between cars a"d pedestrians on Ibis street Story at right. the road opposite McCandless Hail. ourselves," said Reed. 

'lbc Obacrvcr/Carol Gales 
causes congestion and potential hazards, and the area will be restructured during October break into 
, 
r 
~ 
r 
The Observer 
In Brief 
A dissimilar response to hormonesthat may have developed before birth may be the first clear evidence ofa biological di1ference between homosexual and heterosexual men, researchers say. In measuring rising and falling levels of hormones due to stimulation by other hormones, scientists found that the responses ofhomosexual men fell in between those ofheterosexual men and women, says a report to be published Friday in the Journal of Science. In this latest work, scientists looked at the responses of hormone levels to certain stimulation and found measurable di1fer­ences between groups ofmen with di1ferent seJOJal orientation. --AP 
DannyJames Bass, who left his first wife arter learn­ing she was his mother, has married again in an attempt to "w get his life together," his lawyer said Thursday. Bass, 26, and Brenda Maylene Watts, 25, were married in a brief ceremony Wednesday evening and were honeymooning in an undisclosed location, said attorney, Doug Jackson. Bass' mother, Mary Ann Garton Bass, 43, has been charged with criminal incest for her 1978 marriage to her son, who did not know then that the woman was his mother,Jackson said. Jackson said his client had been dating Miss Watts for "several months" and was "extremely happy." --AP 
A labor relations first: management's wage offer was just too high, so a group of construction workers went out on strike until they won their demand -a smaller pay raise. Leaders of Local 32 ofthe International Association ofHeat and Frost Insulators and Asbestos Workers said they felt the contractors were trying to inflate wages so more jobs would go to non-union crews from other areas. "The employer was trying to price us out of the market," said James Grogan, business manager of the 400-member local. "In my opinion, they would like to throw all kinds of money at us." Pricing the local out of the market "was never our "intention," said Frank Lancellotti, a member of the contractors' negotiating team. He declined to comment further on Grogan's allegations or the union's request for less. --AP 
Pap smears taken regularly are so effective they have cut the incidence of cervical cancer by about two-thirds among women who had at least one screening in 10 years, a Swedish study says. The study, which followed more than 200,000 women, also found that among those women who never had smears taken, the incidence of cervical cancer was as much as two to four times higher than among those who had the tests. think this stUdy laid to rest, for once and all, the age-old question, 'Are Pap smears effective in reducing cancer of cervix?"' said Dr. Cecil Fox, one of the re­searchers. "Yes, they are." About 16,000 women in the United States will get cervical cancer in 19.84, and the disease will result in 6,800 deaths, according to the American Cancer Society. --AP 
Of Interest 
Internationally known painter, sct~lptor and print maker, Nathan Oliveira will present alecture this Sunday in the Annenberg Auditorium. Admission is free to this 2 p.m. talk. -Tbe Obseroer 
A typical Cambodian meal will be served by Cambodian refugees at the Centerfor Social Concerns before tomor­row's football game. The menu consists of egg rolls, beef-on-a-stick and a beverage. A J3 donation is requested. -Tbe Obseroer 
A sock hop is being held tomorrow in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. Music featured will be from the '50s and '60s. Admission is n.-Tbe Obseroer 
Weather 
Break out your shades! Mostly sunny and pleasant Friday. High in the upper 70s to about 80. Mostly clear and slightly warmer Friday night. Low in the mid to upper 50s. Mostly sunny and warm Saturday. High in the lower BOs. --AP 

The ~Observer-
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on hom<; football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's <:;ollege. Subscriptions may be purchased for S25 per year ( S15 per se· mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Design Editor ......................... Chris Bowler 
Design Assistant ........... Maureen Murphy 
Layout Staff............. Matthew Gracianette 
Elena Hildalgo 
jennifer Hom Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck News Edtfor ............................Amy Stephan Copy Editor .................................... Liz M1ller Sports Copy Edttor .........v····· Jeff Blumb Sports Special Layout.......... Chri• Bowler Viewpoint Layout................John MenneII Features Layout ................. Kevin Willi:uns ND Day Editor ........................ Aimee Storin SMC Day Edttor ........................Jody Radler ·Ad Design ......................... Suzanne LaCroix Photographer ............................ Carol Gales T1pist........................................ Kim Tychsen 
Friday, September 21, 1984 -page 2 
Sorry, Miss Preppy, but Notre Dame is not in Fort Wayne 
Let's get serious: 
Notre Dame sophomoresare allowed to have cars on campus, and most definitely, Notre Dame is in South Bend, Ind. 
But not according to Lisa Birnbach, author of the newly published Lisa Bif"r!bacb's College Book, which gives an extensive but silly overview of American col­leges. 
Birnbach, whose other book --Tbe Official Preppy Handbook --convinced rich collegiate males to flip up their polo collars, seemed to forget the meaning of the ;word "accurate" somewhere between the research and the writing ofher new book. 
In a two-page summary of Notre Dame, Birnbach states that: 
•
Notre Dame is in Fort Wayne, Ind. Close, Lisa, but you're a few miles off. 

•The 
provost of the University is Sister John. Hmmm. Sister John MiriamJones is an assistant provost, but at last count Timothy O'Meara's job was still se­cure. 

•The 
nearest bar is a mile away. Let's see: Corby's and Bridget's? They're probably a mile away. Chi-Chi's? Much more than a mile away. Oh, wait. There's Senior Bar. Alumni Hall resi-NotTe dents can almost fall out of Dame bed into Senior Bar. Sorry, Lisa. 

•The 
phone number for the admissions office is 283-7505. Oops. "The num­ber you have reached has been disconnected." Yeah, for more than three years. Try 239-7505. 

•Screw 
Your Roommate Dances really are designed to fix students up "with somebody who embarrasses you." Calm down, Lisa; it's just what. they're called. Students (or most anyway) don't go around looking for ugly dates for their roommates and friends. 

•Students 
are not allowed to have cars until their junior year. Unless the sophomore down the hall is in blatant violation of University Criminal Codes, I think Birnbach missed this one a little bit. 

•Restrictions 
imposed by the Vatican hinder having fun on campus. This one is my favorite. The Vatican? And the pope dictated John F. Kennedy's ac­tions, right? What an archaic idea. Soon, Birnbach will tell us that John Paul II has new plans for tl1e renovation ofLaFortune. 


People involved in newspapers ought to have special sympathy when errors make their way into print, so I shouldn't be too harsh. But to go around pumping this book as an accurate guide to American colleges (as 
Bob Vonderheide 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Friday 

Birnbach did two nights ago onlate Night with David Letterman) takes a little nerve. 
And as for bias, let's just say that Brown University comes off in her book smelling like a rose. Her alma mater? Brown University. 
There's no need to worry, however, because the book won't sell. People curious about about their col­lege can dash into their local bookstore and spend three minutes reading the description. Furthermore, people can just pick up a copy of the September 27 issue of 
Rolling Stone and read more about Birnbach's book than they really want to know. 
The best professors, ac­
cording to Birnbach, are Fa­
ther Ed Malloy and Father 
James Burtchaell, both of whom teach theology. The best dorm, she writes, is Morrissey; the worst dorms are Fisher and" Carroll (which Birnbach misspelled). 
The quality of thinking that went into this book is best reflected by Birnbach's own comments to David Letterman Wednesday night. When Letterman asked why his alma mater, Ball State, was not included in the book, Birnbach replied t~1at the name is really kind of "disgusting." 
Oh, well. At least she didn't call this place Notre Dame University. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
Drunk driving is no accident. 
Drunk driving is the-most fre­quently committed crime in the U.S., but it can be prevented when we care enough to take positive ac­tion and when our positive action becomes publicly contagious. 
New laws, endorsed by In­diana's governor, were im­plemented last fall. They set up mandatory license suspensions for those who fail breath tests and· even larger suspensions for those who refuse the test. 
But changes in law cannot solve the problem alone; changes in peo­ple's attitudes must also occur. In time this change in attitude will come about because there is no denying that a drunk driving arrest is financially expensive, publicly embarrassing, and personally humiliating. Drunk driving is ir­responsible and potentially fatal. 

Hey, let's be careful out there. 
Public service announcement by 
A 
the Governor's Task Force to Reduce ; ·Drunk Driving and The Observer 
I 
~ 
...J 
,.--------------------­
The Observer Friday, September 21, 1984-page 3 


Give us the vote 
Dave Finn and Bill Healy, from the Reagan­in this district. Today is the last day to register on Hush, Mondale-Ferraro office, (located on the 2nd campus. Interested students can register in the 
floor of the LaFortune Student Center) register dining halls. seniors Allison Yurko andjoanne Madden to vote 

Th~ Observer/Carol Gales 
Showing her/his best side 
No matter what the 'sign' says, this lovely creature bailsfrom Dillon, not McCandless. One of world-famous boom-boom girls, this Dillonite seems to have found a unique way to get around parletals. The boom-boom girls performed at last night's Dillon pep rally, and as the picture indicates, were willing to bend over backwards to please their audience. 
Reception honors lnnsbruck prof 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
StQ/f Reporter 
Austrian Professor Christian Smekal was honored by former stu­dents and faculty members from Notre Dame's Innsbruck program at a reception in the faculty dining room of the south dining hall yester­day afternoon. 
Smekal, serving as liaison for the "Freundschaftsvertrag" (friendship agreement) between Notre Dame and Innsbruck, has spent this week in conference with various faculty members discussing exchanges be­tween the two schools. 
"This (Notre Dame) is very dilfer­ent because Notre Dame is a campus university and so there is more of a community atmosphere integrated here. Innsbruck (on the other hand) is a typical European city university. People live in dilferent houses and are integrated into city life rather than university life. The problems (if any) are with the fact that Innsbruck isn't so integrated," Smekal said. 
Both Smekal, a finance professor at the University of Innsbruck, and Isabel Charles, assistant provost and 
Architecture students gain client experience 
By MARK DITI'RICH 
NewsStQ// 
Thanks to the efforts of Notre Dame Architecture Professor jaime Bellalta, and fifth-year architecture students Randy Stone and Veronica Kronstein, the St. Stanislaus Kostka Church, New Carlisle, Ind., cele­brated its 1OOth anniversary Sept. 1 5 with a new look. 
Bellalta, Stone and Kronstein worked as part of a University­sponsored program under which fifth-year architecture students in­vestigate church design and deal with clients. "No longer were we working only for ourselves, for aca­demic reasons; we had to interact with our clients," Kronstein said. 
As a part ofthe p~ogram, St. Stanis­laus Church, along with two other local churches involved in the proj­ect, awarded a $1,500 grant to the department of architecture to cover material costs for plans and models and provide a modest payment to the students. 
The church's conservative style and lighting problems were the focus of the restorations. The church was insufficiently lit, and dark wall coloring and dark win­dows created a "blah, hollow, dark" impression. Stone said. In addition, 
director of Notre Dame's foreign studies program, said they are gener­ally pleased with the overall In­nsbruck program. 
"The first goal (of the program) would be to have an experience of a foreign setting while earning credits toward a degree," said Charles. "They (the students) have the inval­uable experience of living In a foreign culture, of learning another 
Corby's 
continuedfrom page 1 
about the murder, they may have gotten scared that I saw something that night. But I didn't," said Eic­horst. 
Eichorst said Rowley Jr. "sometimes carried a small handgun that was registered." He said he did not know ifthe bar owner was carry­ing a gun the night he was murdered. 
Shortly before his death, Rowley Jr discussed selling Corby's, said Eichorst. "His plans were to get out of the tavern business and make it the altar was considerably removed from the pews. 
After taking photographs and making drawings and models of the church, Bellalta and his assistants drew up reconstruction plans. lighter colors and restructured win· dows relieved the lighting problem. A revised altar was placed closer to the congregation. The 30-member church council accepted the plans after some compromise, and con­struction began. 
Bellalta became involved in the program when local priest.'> and church council members ap­proached him last December. Bel­lalta gained much of his experience in church architecture In the 1960s when he worked on similar projects In England and South America. 
When asked for his general impressions of the project, Bellalta responded, "I am pleased with the operation. It enables fourth and fifth year students to confront real design issues." Stone added, "It's rewarding from an academic and practical stand, informative, great experi­ence." 
Kronstein said, "I enjoyed the whole experience.... Dealing with clients was great experience. There's a sense of contributing to the community." 
language, and of understanding how the rest of the world thinks." 
From his experiences with Notre Dame students, Smekal recognizes a need for "adopting better In the di­rection ofsocial and academic life." 
"With the help ofthe University of Innsbruck, we're getting closer to that goal by having the students in the classes and in the dorms (with other Austrian . students)," said Charles. 
possible for me to take it over," he said. Eichorst said Rowley Jr. was waiting until divorce proceedings with his wife:, Rose Rowlc:y, were finished. 
Eichorst was not sure whether he would be: working at the reopened bar. He said he planned to discuss it with Rose Rowley. 
Tony Anzalone, who told The Observer last night that he had been hired as manager of the reopened bar, said Corby's would be operating "with a skeleton crew this weekend. 
, We plan to have more people next week." Rose Rowley could not be reached for comment. 
NAVY MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIPS AVA-ILABLE 
Navy Medical Scholarships provide:
* 
Your full tuition, authorized fees and educational expenses.

* 
The cost of required books and supplies.

* 
Rental fees for necessary equipment such as microscopes.

* 
A monthly cash payment directly to you, to spend as you please! 


PartiCipation 1n the Navy Health Professions Scholarship Program does not Involve any mll1tary tra1ning nor requ1res weanng ot a Navy un1lorm. Your academ1c rout1ne and lifestyle w11l rematn ~he same as· otner medical students. 
Qualifications for this scholarship include: Be accepted for the next entering class or currently enrolled in an approved school of medicine or osteopathy. Be a U.S. citizen. Be phys1cally qualified for a commission as a Naval Officer. 
For more information contact Kathy Scanlon TOLL FREE 1-800-382-9782 or local 269-6199 
Or write to: Medical Programs Room 646 575 N. Pennsylvania Indianapolis, ~N 46204 
Navy Representative will be on campus October 10 & 11 at the Student Union. 
IS ALCOHOL APROBLEM IN YOUR FAMILY? 
ALATEEN 
For Young People Affected by Someone Else's Drinking 
IN ALATEEN YOU CAN: 
• 
Meet others who share your problems 

• 
Learn about alcoholism as an illness 

• 
Share your experience 

• 
Build your self-confidence 




----~-----~~--------­
The Observer Friday, September 21, 1984 -page 4 
Anonymous phone call is a ritual in Middle East terrorist activities 
Assodated Press Iamie Holy War. Some authorities his brother on a fashionable Paris believe it is just a code name used by street. 
BEIRUT, Lebanon the various Shiite Moslem fundamen­Law enforcement agencies in anonymous phone call that follows talists, who support Iran's revolu­Lebanon and other countries "have the horrifying deed has become al­tionary patriarch Ayatollah Ruhollah said that they have been unable to most a ritual in the Middle East. Khomeini but act independently. track down any of the telephone 
A bombing, assassination or kid­One Western diplomat, who calls or arrest anyone. 
napping occurs, and the phone rings asked not to be identified, said Is• A french official in Beirut, who in a news office. The caller reads a lamic Jihad and the various other spoke only on condition that he not carefully worded statement, never groups may exist only "in the minds be identified, said he believes Is­identifies himself and hangs up if oftwo, three or four angry people." lamic Jihad does not exist as a asked to say more. Even Sheik Mohammed Hussein unified group. "It is a word that 
On Thursday the call came about Fadlallah, a fundamentalist Shiite covers for a number of religious 90 minutes after the explosion at the clergyman in Beirut whom Western fanatics having connection with Iran 
U.S. Embassy annex in east Beirut. A newspapers connected with various and whose trampoline is Syria," he man telephoned the Beirut office of bombings claimed by Islamic Jihad, said. the French news agency Agence maintained he did not know if the France-Presse to claim responsibil­organization existed. The governments ofboth Iran and ity for the bombing on behalf of Is­"As an organization, we could not Syria have denied any connection lamic Jihad. discover even I percent that it with specific acts ofviolence. 
exists," he said. "It may not repre­Intelligence sources also have 
In the past two years, more than sent only one thing. Jt may represent linked a radical Lebanese Shiite 30 groups have claimed responsibil­several structures using it as a cover. militia named "Hezbollah" (Party of ity for acts throughout the world They could be Islamic ... or some God) to the bombing of the French that somehow were related to the people who want to give Islam the and American military forces. Middle East. Sometimes several brand ofterrorism." groups issue a claim for a single In that last category, he included bombing or murder. Lebanese Christians or Western in­
The best known -and also the telligence agencies. Fadlallah, who most mysterious -ofthe groups Is Is­maintains he has no connections lamic Jihad. It has claimed responsi­with violence, ridiculed Islamic dAMTECH COMPUTER WHOLESALERS bility for a long series of attacks Jihad's claim last month that it including the bombings at the U.S. planted mines that damaged ships in Embassy and at U.S. Marine and the Red Sea. 
COMPUTER RETAn JAMTECH PRICE 
French headquarters in Beirut last "This organization must be im­year that killed more than 350 mense with its sophistication that it 
IBM PC 2995 2895
diplomats, soldiers and bystanders. mined the Red Sea and all world na­
IBMPCXT 5595 4995
Last week, a caller in Beirut claim­tions were unable to find a clue," he ing to be from Islamic Jihad said the said, maintaining that the United IBM PCJR. 1295 995 group carried out a murder in Spain, States carried out the undersea oper­
APPLE lie 1595 CALL (IN STOCK)
then added the act showed "the ex­ation as an excuse to keep its navy in 
APPLE lie 1395 CALL (IN STOCK)
tent ofour operations" and ability to the Middle East. deal "a painful blow" within the Iran's state-run Tehran Radio APPLE MACINTOSH 2495 CALL (IN STOCK) United States. praised the attacks on Red Sea ship­
COMPAQ, 2 DRIVE, 256K 3195 2995 
The week before, a caller claiming ping, attributing them to Islamic 
NCR MODEL 4, 2 DRIVE 2895 2795
to represent Islamic Jihad warned Jihad. that it would strike soon at a "vital Anonymous telephone callers TEXAS INSTRUMENTS, 64K 2195 1995 
U.S. interest in the Middle East." also have said the organization was DIGITAL RAINBOW 100 2995 CALL Generally, Islamic Jihad and the responsible for bombings last 
SANYO MBC 550-2, I DRIVE 1095 899
various other groups claim responsi­December at the American and 
SANYO MBD 550-2, 2 DRIVE 1299 999
bility for attacks aimed at American French embassies in Kuwait and or Israeli interests. Islamic Jihad, for New Year's Eve bombings at the ATARI 600 XL, 16K 250 199 example, claims to have kidnapped main railway station in Marseille, 
ATARI 800 XL, 64K 299 269 
three Americans still missing from France, and aboard a high-speed 
ATARI 1200 XL, 64K 319 299
west Beirut. But the groups also train traveling from Marseille to have focused on France and, Lyon. COMMODORE 64K 799 769 recently, on the pro-Western Arab A month later, an anonymous cal­governments in Kuwait and Saudi ler claimed that Islamic Jihad shot Arabia. and killed the leading military figure 
Uttle is known about IslamicJihad in pre-revolutionary Iran -once beyond its name, which means Is-known as "the butcher ofIran" -and 
PRINTERS MONITORS 


r 
r 
, .. 
t 
! r 
APPLE 650 595 IBM 599 525 TI 850 FRICTION FEED 650 595 APPLE lie 299 225 SANYO PR-5000 (LQ) 450 399 TEXAS INS. -GREEN 350 310 DYNAX 15(LQ) 450 399 TEXAS INS. -COLOR 750 699 LUECHIP 120 CPS 299 279 ZENITH-GREEN 179 149 ATARII020 COLOR 250 230 ZENITH -AMBER 189 159
!'liebeslllas 
EPSONRX80 350 299 TEKINIKA HI RES COLOR 499 399 EPSON RX 80/Ff 449 419 TAXANCOLOR 799 559 EPSON FX 80( 160 CPS) 550 520 COMMODORE 1702 299 245
a tasteallitsowa. 
GEMINI IS-X 399 359 NEC 1215 COLOR 299 245 NEC8023AN 399 349 NEC 126 GREEN 159 99 POWER WRITER 550 499 AMDE;-. 300 GREEN 199 139 DATA PRODUCTS AMDl .~ 300 AMBER 209 159 
8 COLOR, CREATES MAPS, LQ 2599 1999 
SOFTWARE 
WE STOCK THESE PROGRAMS FOR AU SYSTEMS CALL FOR PRICES 
STOCK MARKET RESTAURANT MANAGEMENT STATISTIC PACKAGE CAD-CAM FORTRA~-GRAPHICS PACKAGE USP GAMES c FUGHT SIMULATORS LOGO FINANCE PACKAGES COBOL CP/M EMULATOR PASCAL DATABASE ACCTS RECEIVABLE EDUCATIONAL PACKAGES, ACCTS PAYABLE COllEGE PAYROll VIS/CALC INVFNTORY 
ELECTRONICS 
DISKETTES BOXOFlO 
MAXELL DS/DD 28.95 SS/DD 19.95 3M DS/DD 28.95 SS/DD 19.95 DYSAN DS/DD 34.95 SS/DD 24.95 VERBATIM DATAUFE SS/DD 19.95 OS/DD 24.95 ELEPHANT SS/DD 18.95 DS/DD 23.95 
ESCORT POUCE RADAR DETECTORS MADE BY CII'/CIN­
NATI1 MICROWAVE 295 
AlSO AVAILABLE, SATELUTE RECEPTION SYSTEMS, RAISED LEYrER BUSINESS CARDS AND OFFICE SUPUES 
CALL MS. KELLY RYAN 
COMMISSIONED SALES POSITION AVAII.ABLE 
(219) 277-7598 
SEND RESUME WITHIN 10 DAYS OR WRITE TO: TO THE ABOVE ADDRESS 
j. A. MEYER TECHNOLOGIES DEUVERED IN 7-14 DAYS FOUR WEST TIURD STREE, SUITE 275 VISA, MASTER CARD AND PERSONAL CHECKS ACCEPTED DAYTON, OH 4 5402 50 percent UPON ORDERING, 
50 percent NET 30, 2 percent DISCOUNT FOR NET I 0 
@Anheuser·SuSCh. Inc Sl lOUIS, Mo 

The Observer 
Friday, September 21, 1984-page 5 
Suicide bomber blows up U.S. embassy in Beirut, 23 killed 
All8oclated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon ·-A van driven by a suicide bomber careened past concrete barriers and through a fusillade of gunfire yesterday and blew up at the doors of the U.S. Em­bassy annex. Police said 23 people were killed in the bla~t and the U.S. State Department reported two of the dead were Americans. 
I.ebanese state radio initially put the death toll at I 0, but later said as many as 40 people may have. perished. 
lbe blast tore into the lower stories of the six-story building, in­juring a~ many as 60 people, includ­ing the British ami American amba~sadors and 2 1 other Americans, police and emergency officials said. 
State Department spokesman john Hughes said there were two terrorists in the van and that they drove 500 feet under fire from Lebanese guards. He said the van was "badly shot up." Hughes said there were 20 Americans injured. 
Police and embassy officials said they believed the gunfire from Lebanese and American ~uards prevented the van from driving into a basement parking lot and blowing up the entire building. 
About 90 minutes after the explo­sion, an anonymous caller claimed responsibility for the attack on be­half of Islamic Holy War, a shadowy terrorist group that claimed the bombings that killed 299 American and French peacekeeping soldiers last October, and the bombing ofthe 
U.S. Embassy in west Beirut in April 1983. Sixty-three people, including 1 7 Americans, were killed in that ex­plosion. 
The Ameriqm staff had just moved to the east Beirut annex in July for security reasons, because the old Britlsh compound it had transferred to after the embassy was destroyed was considered too vul­nerable. 
The main road leading to the an­nex building -in the Christian suburb of Aukar, nine miles north­east of central Beirut -is partially blocked with large concrete barriers and anti-tank traps that force enter­ing vehicles to move in a zig-zag pat­tern. 
The security also includes an electronic detection system and checkpoints. Swinging steel gates, intended to be installed on concrete barricades, were lying on the side­walk nearby. They were to have been set up within the next several days, said a Lebanese security guard. 
"If they would have done so ear­lier, the vehicle could not have en­tered," said the guard, who spoke on condition he not be identified. 
Guards said they fired on the van as it rushed for the entrance, and In Washington, Assistant Secretary of State for Middle East Affairs Richard Murphy said he was told a U.S. Marine guard shot and killed the suicide driver just before the vehicle blew up. 
Secretary ofState George P. Shultz said in Washington that two Americans were killed, and si~ Lebanese employees of the embassy were also believed dead. Shultz said about 50 Lebanese employees were believed to have been injured. The names of the dead were not immedi­ately released. 
U.S. Ambassador Reginald Bar­tholomew and British Ambassador David Meirs were In conference in Bartholomew's top-floor office 11:45 a.m. (4:45a.m. EDT) and both were slightlyinjured. 
Both ambassadors were taken to 
Abu Jawdeh hospital in east Beirut, 
where they were seen conscious 
and talking. 
In Washington, President Reagan reacted with "anger and sorrow." However, he said the United States would not be driven out of the Middle East. "We must continue," he said. "We can't just withdraw in the face ofthis kind of terrorism." 
The explosion ripped a crater 16 feet wide near the building. I,.ocal radio stations quoted police as saying the van was laden with as much as 385 pounds of TNT, and that it carried fake Dutch diplomatic license plates. State television said the van also was fitted with four Soviet-made rockets, adding to the force of the explosion. 
American guards and Lebanese Christian militia guards said they fired at the speeding van as it scraped through the concrete bar­riers. British bodyguards waiting outside the annex for Meirs also said they fired at the van and hit it several times. 
However, the vehicle rolled to a spot directly In front of the main en­trance to the annex and exploded, heavily damaging the ground floor visa section. But the building remained standing. Shrapnel damage could be seen 500 yards away. 
Police said several Lebanese citizens had been waiting in line at the visa section. .. 
The wreckage ofthe van lay about five yards from the building's main entrance. 
David Winn, embassy political of­ficer, said he heard a burst ofgunfire, which he thought was "an attempt to prevent the car from coming in." 
Winn wa'> in his office at the rear of the top floor of the yellow stone building with a Dutch diplomat when the bomb exploded. 
He said both ambassadors suf­fered minor Injuries. "The British amba'lsador had a lot of blood (on him) from what appeared to be a scalp wound. But he was clearly cogent and helpful," Wlnn added. 
U.S. Marine guard Cpl. Larry Gill of Mobile, Ala., said he was on duty at the entrance to the emba'i.'>Y annex ' when the bombing occurred. 

201 W. McKinley, Mishawaka 256-1565 
Beirut deaths unite Reagan and Mondale 
Associated Pre!l's 
WASHINGTON ··United for a day in outrage and sadness, President Reagan and challenger Walter F. Mondale spoke with a single voice yesterday In condemning a terrorist bomb attack that left two Americans and a score of others dead at the U.S. Embassy annex in Lebanon. 
The presidential rivals and their vice presidential running mates stuck to scheduled campaign trips In four separate regions of the nation. But news of the attack tended to overshadow the domestic political messages they carried. 
Reagan and Vice President George Bush vowed the United States would not be driven out ofthe Mideast by such attacks, while their Democratic opponents, who have questioned administration policies in the region, made no such state­ment. 
But otherwise their words were almost interchangeable, carrying no partisan tinge. 
Reagan spoke of "a moment of anger and sorrow" in reaction to the attack by terrorists "opposed to everything we stand for." Mondale expressed "shock and outrage" at an 
l , ,
"irrational, uncivilized, bloody act." 
,
Bush spoke of cowards trying to "snuff out any light that is the sym­bol of freedom," while Democratic vice presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro said she joined all Americans in sadness at "the sense­less loss oflife." 
Reagan said he had considered canceling his day of campaigning in Midwestern farm country, but decided to go anyway since "you're president wherever you are" ami there was nothing he could do in the White House that he couldn't do on the campaign trail. 
1
On Monday in Wa~hlngton, D.C., 
1 
Mondale had said the administration had bungled its Middle Eao;t action 1 so badly that "in that swamp of 
l
policy confusion, we lost nearly 300 
1
brave Americans who were placed 
1 
in a vulnerable position over the ob­
1
jections of the Joint Chiefs ofStafi'' -­
i 
a reference to the bombing a year ago at the Marine headquarters in Beirut when 241 servicemen died. 
~ 
But there was no political squab­bling in the immediate aftermath of ~ the new attack In which a van was driven close to the embassy annex, despite guards' gunfire, and power­ful explosives were detonated. Two American guards were among the dead. 
-~--~-~~------~--------------------------------------.. 
The Observer Friday, September 21, 1984 -page 6 
Lafayette worst college town, says· new guide 
Associated Press correctly associated Purdue with its location on the west side of the 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. Wabash River, not in Lafayette, as Lafayette hits rock bottom as "the she writes. worst college town" in the country, Nevertheless, the author takes but Richmond takes top honors as jabs at the town based on what stu­one of the best in a new college dents have told her in question­guide. naires. 
Author Lisa Birnbach, who gave "See Lafayette on a rainy day and the world the "Official Preppy Hand­you're liable never to return," she book," includes Purdue University writes. in West Lafayette and Earlham Col­Due for release Monday, Ms. lege in Richmond in her latest Birnbach's guide has already caused venture, "Lisa Birnbach's College a stir among some Purdue Boiler­Handbook." makers, who say the university may 
not be in the best college town, but 
Ms. Birnbach writes: " students certainly not the worst. say they are content at Purdue Uni­"Maybe West Lafayette the city is versity, although no one can come boring, but Purdue sure isn't," said up with a good reason why...so many Purdue seniorJennifer Fouts. "Ifshe students drink and drink heavily. had ever been here and partied with They work and they drink and they us, I don't think she'd think that." dress alike and watch their football In response to Ms. Birnbach's 
The Observer/Carol Gales 
team lose, and then they go back to remarks that students say Purdue
I'll take it 
their labs and study some more." and Lafayette offer little diversion,
james Rockwell, auctioneer, sold this dispose of items they find left about campus. Yes­
In rating Purdue, the author never junior Belen Hoyt is quick to dis­
abandoned bicycle for 115 at the security depart­terday's event was well-attended: After all, where 
visited the campus and relied in­agree.
, mentauction in thefootball stadiumyesterday. Se­else canyoupurcbasea bikefor 115? 
stead upon student questionnaires "I wouldn't say that Purdue is a 
curity sponsors several auctions every year to
r to compile her opinion. Had she partycampus, and I guess that's what r visited, Ms. Birnbach might have she means," said Miss Hoyt, 20. 
r 
,
r Pope seems fatigued at tour's close 
Associated Press last of his 12-day, 8, 500-mile The 64-year-old leader of the Canadian trip, a chant of "Vive le world's more than 700 million 
OTIAWA --Pope John Paul II, en­pape! vive le pape!'' (Long live the Roman Catholics was clearly ding his long Canadian journey yes­Pope!) rippled acrqss the huge fatigued as he closed his Canadian terday, appealed ~ainst nuclear crowd, estimated at a quarter­pilgrimage, one of the longest of his arms, economic injustice and abor­million. 23 foreign trips. tion -threats, h.: said, to "all that is Earlier, in a farewell talk to the After the papal jetliner lands in human." Catholic bishops ofCanada, a nation Rome on Friday, he is expected to 
From .!11 altar platform rising swept by liberal social trends, the spend at least a few days resting at beside the vttawa River, the Pope Pontiff expressed concern about his summer palace in nearby Castel recalled Christ's Sermon on the widespread abortion, artificial con­Gandolfo. But he will be on the 
r Moun1. traception and premarital sex. move again shortly, flying to Spain, "Happy the peacemakers," he He warned the prelates against the Dominican Republic and Puerto~ said, the wind rustling his white hair. being swayed by popular opinion. Rico Oct. 10-12. 
, 
"They shall be called children of "We must proclaim the good On the first-ever papal visit to to God." news of God in season and· out of this aftluent, increasingly At the end of the papal Mass, the season," said the Pope. secularized nation, John Paul preached a dual message -a tradi­tional line on issues of personal morality and church practice, but a 
lr Coal management, labor message of on
change socio­economic questions. He stoutly defended church
~ resume contract negotiations 
teachings against abortion, artificial 
r 
Associated Press the formal deadline for an agree­contraception, premarital sex and
r 
ment would be Sept. 30. marriage ofpriests. But he called for 
Thinking aboQt religion
r WASHINGTON --In an about-face But it takes several days for the full-employment policies in West­
r 
r that could signal progress toward contract ratification process to be ern economies, advocated worker Diana Ochoa could be contemplating the mystery ofGod, or reaching a settlement on a new coal concluded, and the union has long cooperatives, assailed just biding behind her text to scope out next week's SYR date. In industry labor contract, representa­adhered to a policy of refusing to "imperialistic" monopolies and en­any case, she was found last night in LaFortune ostensibly study­tives of management and the United send its miners to work without a dorsed the rights of native peoples ingfor her philosophy ofreligion class. Mine Workers went into marathon contract in force. Thus, Thursday to land and self-government. bargaining late Thursday. loomed as a crucial target on the His words unsettled some of his The resumption of the face-to­negotiating timetable. listeners. face negotiations just after the din­ner hour came toward the end of a day in which it seemed more likely that an accommodation would 

;-.G~t -\MLC.. 
elude both sides, leading to a strike 
Restaurant and Cocktail Loung · 
by Oct. 1. 
· Authentic Szechuan and Hunan Tas 
Asked if there was still time to achieve a tentative settlement on a 
LUNCH SPECIAL 
new pact to avcrt a walkout, UMW 
Any Combination Plate
spokesman Joe Corcoran said, "if they're going to continue on" with foronly $ the talks, sufficient time remains to 295
Banquet up to 200
get the job done. But Corcoran would not say flatly 
130DixieWaySouth,SouthBend 272-7376
that there had been any surprise 
CneKI to R~~n~t.n·a_lnnj__ concessions reached on the various issues. Nor would he say generally whether any progress was being made toward an agreement. "They are down to the crunch," said one source with the United Mine Workers as union representa­tives from the various coalfield dis­tricts assembled for high-level meetings at the UMW's international 
Get two free Cokes00 with 
headquarters. Two Free any-pizza. Dennis O'Neil, spokesman for the One coupon per pizza.
Cokes®
Bituminous Coal Operators Associa­
Fast, Free Delivery'M 
tion and an aide to chief industry 
Plaza 23 Center 
negotiator Bobby R. Brown said the 
r 
bargaining teams met for about 30 -----~a~~~;hs~~~~ send<Ave. minutes in late afternoon, then
,r -Phone: 277-2151 
parted company. He said "it is possi­in Lafortune basement 
• Expires in one week. 
ble" more negotiating would take • • JTC NA 124 2650 
~ 12:30 to 5:30 
a
r ~~~;;;;;;;;;;;=;;....;:=:::::;::::::;;:=~ c 1984 Domino·~ P1zza. Inc.
place later in the day.
r .,,..-j ®
The existing 40-monthagreement Just Call 283-MUMS 
! r 
covering an estimated 70,000 UMW 
r 
members and the unionized soft coal companies expires Oct. 1, so 


The Observer Friday, September 21, 1984 -page 7 

Economy slows down, but growth still strong 
AMoclated Press 
WASHINGTON ·· 'lne economy has slowed to a 3.6 percent rate of growth, substantially below the pace set during the first half of the year hut still strong enough to give the country its best economic per­formance in decades, the govern­ment said yesterday. 
'lne Reagan administration hailed the news and private economists agrn·d that a president running for rc-clt'ction could scarcely ask for a hcttt·r performance. 
'lne Commerce Department rt·port said the gross national prod­uct, the total output of goods and services, increased at an annual rate of .'\.6 percent in thl' current July­September quarter, for an annual total of S 1.64 trillion. 'Inc report is based on data for the first two months of the quarter and estimates for September and is often subject to later revisions. 
'Inc third-quarter figure marked a dramatic slowing from the 7.1 per­cent pace in the second quarter and the I 0.1 percent rate for the first three months of 1984. 
But the slowdown was not as se­vere as some had feared and most economists said the current level is just what is needed to sustain the current .22-month expansion. 
'lney noted the news on inflation was very good. Prices, as measured by an index tied to the GNP, rose at a 
2.9 percent rate in the quarter, down from the 3.3 percent level set in the second quarter. 
Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said the preliminary esti­mate for GNP growth "provides fur­ther evidence that the economy has shifted down to a more moderate and sustainable growth rate." 
He said investment, consumer spending and defense outlays would generate growth in the 4 percent range for "the foreseeable future." 
He said that even with the slow­down in the second half, the eco­nomy should have the "best two-year performance in over thirty years." · 
lne administration is predicting GNP growth for the whole year is likely to hit 7.2 percent · the best performance since 1951. That would compare with a 3.7 percent gain in 1983 and a 2.1 percent decline in 1981 when the country was mired in recession. 
Prosecutor absolves Meese; Reagan predicts confirmation 
AMoclated Press 
WA..'iHINGTON--A special prose­cutor absolved Edwin Meese III of any criminal misbehavior on 'lnursday, and President Reagan predicted his long-time friend would win Senate confirmation next year and become "a truly distin­guished attorney general." 
Special prosecutor Jacob A. Stein said he found no basis for "the bring­ing of a prosecution" against Meese, who was accused of ethical miscon­
duct and rewarding friends with government jobs in exchange for loans and other financial favors. 
But Stein stressed he could not render judgment on anything but the legality of Meese's actions, saying questions about the presiden-
Hey Mate! 
Ihe=ClbserYer-needs you. The news department Is accepting applications for 
Assistant News Editor 

For more Information 
contact Dan, Sarah or Anne 
at 239·6313. Application• 
are due Thureday at 5 p.m. 
Made with our own 1peciel crust. Covered w/lh 
-~· 
lreoh mouerelle chHH end your choice of mouth watering extras. 
TOPPINGS 
Ham Fresh Onion Black Olives IIAuahrooma Pepperoni Green Pepper 
Small $2.80 
Small $3.30 
Small $3.80 
Small $4.10 Italian Sauuge 
MENU 
CHEEU: PIZZA One of life'• moat oimple pleasures! 
Medium $4.00 
ONE TOPPING PIZZA Bece~JM one cannot live by chHse alone. 
Medium $4.80 
TWO TOPPING PIZZA 
Variety II the IPice of life. Medium $5.110 
TMtEE TO,.,.ING PIZZA Abundance mekas the hear! grow fonder. 
Medium $8.35 
fiVE TOPPING PIZZA 
Make your own Winning Combination. 
Small $4.50 Medium $7.00 EXTRA TOPPINGS-MEATIVEGGIES 
Large $5.45 
Large $8.110 
Large $7.110 
Larva $8.60 
Large $9.60 
Small $.50/$.20  11Aediuno>'$11l/$.30  Large $.80/$.50  
BEVERAGES  
Popal  Teem  Sunklst  Diet Pepsi  
Small 49'  Mod1um 59•  Large 65'  
284-2011  FREE DELIVERY TO SMC  

Domino's really does 
Tom Mowle and about 20 friends got sick of dining ball food and decided to do something aboul it. They bad eight pizzas delivered to the 
The <lbscrvcr/Carol (Jalc!i 
deliver 
south dining ball last night at a 10 percent dis­
count. Why trek to the south dining ball to eat 
pizza? They claim they "did Itforfun." 
tial counselor's ethics or propriety were for others to judge. 
Meese's chief critic on the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, 0-0hio, said there were inconsistencies between what Stein reported and testimony heard by the committee and called anew for Meese to ask Reagan "to withdraw his name from considera­tion for attorney general." 
Meese welcomed Stein's report and said he had been through "a long ordeal." 
"But it was essential, for it cleared the air and affirmed what my family and I have always known: that we have lived honorable lives, that we have paid our debts with our own money, and that we have never taken advantage of official position to obtain private gain," he said in a statement read to reporters at the Wltite House. He refused to answer their questions. 
Stein, a prominent Washington lawyer, began investigating Reagan's counselor in April. He was ap­pointed by a special court to look into allegations of ethical miscon­duct that arose during Senate hearings last spring on Meese's nomination as attorney general. · 
Senate hearings on the Meese nomination to succeed William French Smith were suspended pend· ing Stein's report. On Thursday, Sen­ate Judiciary Chairman Strom Thurmond, R-S.C., said he would make no effort to push the Meese nomination through his panel in the few remaining days of this congres­sional session. 
"I think the political atmosphere 
at this time would not be conducive 
to a proper hearing," Thurmond 
said. "Ifthe president sees fit to offer 
him again, of course, we'll take it up 
in January." 
Reagan was campaigning in Iowa but in a two-paragraph statement released by the Wltite House he made it clear he will not give up on the Meese nomination. He called Meese "one of the most decent and ljlonorable men I have ever known." 
"I'm confident that the Senate will confirm him, and I know he'll be a truly distinguished attorney gen­eral," Reagan said. 
With Congress in the waning days ofits session and eager to quit work, the nomination will have to wait un­til the next Congress assembles in January. If Reagan wins re-election, he will have to resubmit the nomina­tion and the confirmation proceed· ings will start fr~m scratch. 

In a statement on Capitol Hill, Metzenbaum said that although he hadn't had time to study Stein's report in detail, "There appear to be numerous cases where the tes­timony elicited by Mr. Stein and his staff are at variance with previous testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee. There is sub­stantial evidence the committee was not told the whole story by some of the witnesses." 
Stein investigated 1 1 specific alle­gations of possible misconduct, questioned 200 witnesses and summoned 45 of them, including Meese and his wife Ursula, to testify before a federal grand jury. 
In his 385-page report, Stein des­cribed his long inquiry and said: 
"Based upon the investigation described above, we find no basis with respect to any of the 11 allega­tions for the bringing of a prosecu­tion against Mr. Meese for the violation of a federal criminal statute." 
But he added, "I am compelled to 
limit my inquiry to the sole question 
of whether the evidence warrants 
prosecution under federal crimina! 
statutes." 
The allegations ranged from charges that Meese improperly kept S375 cuffiinks from the South Korean government, to assertions that he used his influnce to win a promotion In the U.S. Army Reserve, fattening his pension. 
But the most serious centered on 
an interest-free 515,000 loan to Mrs. 
Meese from Edwin Thomas, a long· 
time family friend. Meese failed to 
:lisclose the loan on the financial dis­
closure forms, as required by the 
post-Watergate Ethics in Govern­
ment Act. 
Thomas, his wife, Gretchen, and 
son, Tad, all subsequently got 
federal jobs, and the allegation was 
made that they were in exchange for 
the Thomas' generosity to Meese. At 
one time, Thomas served as Meese's 
aide in the Wltite House, and later he 
and Mrs. Thomas were appointed to 
government positions in San Fran­
cisco. 
Stein reported, "We uncovered 
no direct evidence linking the offer 
of the loan or the subsequent 
making of the loan to Mr. Meese's of­
fer of a (White House) job to Mr. 
Thomas." On the San Francisco job, 
Stein said, "The uncontradicted 
evidence is that Mr. lbomas ob­
tained this position himself, without 
the knowledge of (or any interven­
tion by) Mr. Meese." 

MR. D's 
1516 N.lronwood South Bend 
233-7747 Ron Delaere 

--------------~------------­
~i~~~_()__l_._ll__t_________________
F_ri_day-,S-ep-te_m_be-r2-1,_19_8_4_p_a-ge-8 
Why go to college 
As the days of summer draw to an end, hundreds of thousands of people across this nation, like you and me, head to institutions of higher learning. The quest for a piece ofpaper "suitable f<>-framing" has both noble and 
RandyFahs 
more Friday analysis 
practical consequences. Still, I challenge each of you to ask yourselves the following ques­tion: "What was your prime reason for going to college?" • 
Historically the answers have ranged from it being a great way to avoid the military draft, all the way to it being an easy way to move out ofthe house and still have someone else to pay for it. There are certainly a multitude of reasons to go to college and there are prob­ably several reasons which have drawn people to places like this. 
What I am mainly concerned with though are the two reasons which are basic to all ofus, so I must once again put the question to you, but in a more specified form: Aie you goingfor an education or a job? I know that it is prob­ably a cotp.bination of these two reasons and many others, but what was your prime motivating interest, brains or bucks? 
I feel that I can say with some degree ofcer­tainty that your average aerospace engineer or accounting major faces a higher salary scale 
r and better job prospects than someone who 
r studeid English Uterature or Ait History. But what ofit, is it-really so terrible that a person
~ went to college to study engineering or busi­ness?
~ 
In my mind, no, not if it is something you really want to do. Some people truly enjoy~ working out the schematics to computer 
r 
hardware artd still others are fascinated by the world offinance. For those people, I wish you much success in your career endeavors. But, for those of you who are banging your heads against the wall studing something you don't like, solely for its job prospects, then I have no sympathy for you when you find out that a di­ploma isn't an immediate ticket to the promised land. 
To study a specified field on the college level is not to learn only practical knowledge in a given area, but it is to learn how to analyze a problem and think creatively.! remember an old line which says, "If you are an Arts and Letters major and your roommate is an en­gineer, fear not, you'll get a job someday, but he'll be boring forever." While I can't agree with this statement wholeheartedly, I must admit that we will all get jobs eventually, maybe with different pay scales and opportu­nities for advancement, but we will all find gainful employment. 
The point that I am trying to make is the following: Study what you enjoy and find in­teresting, not what you think will get you a job. Too many people spend four years (or more) studying something they hate only to find that there isn't a pot of gold waiting for them immediately at the end of the rainbow. There is a lot to be said for pursuing a "Uberal Education." While mechanical engineers may design bridges and physicists may help send men into outer space, the humanities give us beauty, art, music, etc. and they help us to bet­ter understand ourselves in philosophy and the Social Sciences. 
So the next time someone says that they are only in a certain field for the financial rewards, be quick and remind them that money and jobs may come and go, but an education must last a lifetime. 
Randy Fabs is a 1984 Notre Dame graduateanda former Vkwpoint columnist. 

r 
On birthdays and
~ 
r 
r ,. other special days
r 
r 
My son turned four this past Sunday. I un­
! r 
derstand here in America such is a day of
r 
celebration. Even where I am from we celebrate birthdays. But since I've never really been there, where I'm from, there's been no necessity ·for me to learn to celebrate birthdays. Not my own, not my son's. Indeed, 
,.
, 
J urgen Brauer 
r 
reasoned culture 
~ 
r this past Sunday was not a day of joyful r celebration; rather it became a day of reflec­r tion-for me, that is, for jonathan liveshis days
r 
all the same: quiet when he experiments with 
r life and things around him, a laughing jum­pingjack never to be tamed, boistrous even, crying when he's bumped his head, seeking refuge, consolation in my arms, He, it appears to me, needs no days set aside for joyous,
f 
festive celebration -birthdays.r 
Do I need birthdays? For him or for myself? Is there anything to celebrate? No, I still don't think so. I will not teach him to be joyous one day a year. Why not be joyousevery day? Why not, some retort, make a special effort to be joyous on birthdays? Well, why not, then, make a special effort every day? You see, as I look at the world I see that special days are almost always days of excuse for efforts not made, deeds not done, words not said, sins for­given, a new beginning -which is alright but why not every day? And, indeed, is this not why Christians claim to have advanced 
beyond the stageofjudaism? Forgiven, joyous life each day? Yet, forgiven, joyous life without reflection makes us merely prone to need even more birthdays. A never ending spiral ­upward? downward? 
My son turned four this past sunday. And before I end my schooling he's scheduled to begin his. Scheduled to? Schooling? What for? To learn what? Which sins to commit that can be forgiven on birth-and other special days? My son, I am afraid to let you go to such a school. No, I'd rather have you and I continue our own school: to appreciate each other in everymood-everyday; to marvel and wonder at our fingers, ears and toes and at how our bodies function -every day; to run and play and laugh together -every day; to have an open door for people who need to come in out ofisolation -every day; to share food with one another and with whoever cares to join us -every day; to enjoy the food we grow in our garden and even ruore the food we don't ­every day; to live life not for display but just for its own sake -every day. To help qeate a world where judges judge not according· to the law but according to what is just; where those who have share with those who don't; where schools teach how to live instead of how to make a living; where people learn to withstand instead of learning how to assim­ilate -in short, a world where birth-and other special days become superfluous. 
jurgen Brauer is an economics graduate student and a regular contributing View­pointcolumnist. 
Got an opinion, drop us a line 
Viewpoint not only provides you an opportunity to respond to the columns, articles and illustrations printed this newspaper, but through 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you can address issues which have not been raised to your satisfaction in this newspaper. Viewpo.int 
encourages au of its readers to fuliy expore and voice their opinions. Simply send your letter toP. 0. Box Q or deliever it to our office. Letters should be no longer than 150 words in length and guest columns should notexceed 600 words. All works must be signed. 
Bridging the wide gap Between ND arid SMC 
"What are Saint Mary's students like?, "What is it like to study at the Memorial Library or to take a class at NO?" These are familiar ques­tions that some NO or SMC students ask one another from time to time. The only way to answer these questions is to get involved and meet people. Many ofus often get caught up in our daily routines and do not have time to en-
Janet Tabit 
guest column 
joy "the other campus" whether it be SMC or ND. There are many advantages to both schools and opportunities to meet new people by joining clubs and attending other social events. 
Many students get "hung up" about the silly stereotypes between the two schools. I am a junior transfer at NO from Saint Mary's and have heard the endless comments about "SMC chicks." For example, the typical stereotype ofSMC girls is that they are "airheads looking for a husband." This is definitely a stereotype because SMC is a highly respectable college with very intelligent students that come from the top percent of their high school graduat­ing class. Also, almost every young woman desires to get married someday, not just SMC women! Now that I am a student at NO, I hear about how all NO girls are "unattractive book­worms.:' Again, this stereotype is overexag­gerated. I have seen many attractive girls at 
ND, and they don't study any more than male 
NO students! 
Comparing the two schools, it is obvious to see that a solution is needed. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College have extremely friendly atmospheres and top notch students from respectable families. I encourage all students whether SMC or NO to "break out of their shell," join clubs, meet people -get involved. College is a time to learn, and also a time to communicate. Friends made in college are friends for a lifetime. Some suggestions for meeting people include the following: 
SMC students-Get involved in clubs at ND, 
study at the Memorial Library, take a class at 
NO, or call a friend and have dinner at north or 
south dining hall. 
NO students -Visit the SMC campus -It is amazing how many NO students have never been to SMC until after graduation. The campus is beautiful, call a friend and enjoy the fantastic scenery. Study at the new library to change from the normal activity at NO. Call a friend and have a snack at the Haggar College center, or attend mass at the Church of the Loretto. 
The time is now. Dont't be shy!! Meet people, have fun-enjoy the best years ofyour life. College only comes once, and four years go by quickly. Don't sit in your room and com­plain that "There is nothing to do." Go across Route 31 and experience the joy of meeting the friendliest people around -SMC and ND students...You won't regret it! 
janet Tabit ts a junior government major atNotre Dame. 
r-------------------------------------------------------------­"ieVVP.-O~i~n_t~-----------------------------------------F-ri_d~ay~,_se~p-te_m_b_e_r_2_1~,1~9~8-4__~Pa~g~e~9 
Notre Dame students take security in numbers 
Mario Cuomo and much of the crowd which wao; waiting outside Washington Hall la.o;t 'lbursday night have something in com­mon. He and many in the: crowd refuse to act as individuals, Cuomo in a manner shortly to he: expounded upon. and the group which ganged togt·thc:r around the hall's entrance 
John Regalbuto 
guest column 
treating the occasion a<; if it were a party or some: other fun diversion. When it became nowdc:d up front many students began mooing like: cows. 'Ibe joyfully initiated chant "We want in' We: want in!" contributed to the carnival atmosphere:. 
At the CCE auditorium, students flew paper airplanes from the balcony and treated the af­fair a-; if it were a movie in the engineering auditorium, screaming "Hit the lights!" ao; the simulcast begun, and then cheering the fellow who got up to do so. 
'Inc: behavior of these mobs might ex­emplify the commonplace American malady of taking refuge from individualistic thinking in the: security of numbers. It seems this malady has also affected the political ideology of Mario Cuomo. Not that this Catholic man is all (or even slightly) had -from his speech one could not help hut sense his sincerity and wil­lingness to further dialogue about the respon­sibilities of the Catholic politician. 
Cuomo's main defense of his explicit support of pro-abortion lc:gislation while per­~onally hdif'ving in the teaching of the 
Church, is that in defense of the freedoms of 
others he cannot impose his religious views 
on them by political action. While Governor 
Cuomo's speech was excellently delivered, 
emotionally charged, his arguments concern­
ing his consideration of other's religious 
freedom seemed like so much elegant 
rationalization and after some deliberation 
might instead be considered the sacrificing of 
principles to political expendiency. 
While the seperation ofreligion and politics 
is right, the seperation of ethics from politics 
is not. Religion hao; always been close to this 
fine line because religion is a goldmine ofwis­
dom from which ethics can be derived. 
Governor Cuomo's defense of the religious freedom of others sounds noble and in com­plete accord with the constitution. The point is, defending the religious freedom of others and upholding moral truth do not usually con­flict (and this is the basis of Governor Cuomo's argument), but there do exist cases where people with malformed religious views (or an absence of religious views) commit morally unhealthy acts. In these instances, the 
state must adhere rigidly to a supercedingsys­tem ofethics as the basis for its action. 
Political judgement infringing upon religi­ous judgement on the basis of moral grounds does have precedence. The problem with the abortion issue is that, whereas moral truth is ideally independent of religion and is univer­sally accepted, in this case It Is not. Ifthe Cath­olic's moral view on the notion of abortion were universally accepted, the politician who supports pro-abortion legislation goes beyond the crime of medical neglect; he gives the state the right to kill the innocent. 
To the Catholic politician, his fight for anti­
abortion legislation should pose no problem, 
however, for his actions in this regard would 
not be an imposition ofhis religion on others, 
but an upholding ofa basic moral truth. 
It is understandable why a Catholic politician would assume Governor Cuomo's position; by vowing to explicitly fight pro­abortion legislation he would sacrifice a lot of political support. But while the sacrifice ofan economic or foreign policy principle may be acceptable, the sacrifice of a moral one is definitely not. 
When all the dust over this murky issue settles, there is seen a genuine battle for human rights: one small group possesses the truth and has the task of convincing the greater majority ofits validity. That politicians such a<; Governor Cuomo are shirking their responsibliltiy in this fight was clearly brought out by the philosopher Mark Kraut­hammer on ABC's Nightline which followed the speech. The problem Krauthammer states was this: Mario Cuomo is expediently follow­ing the will of the majority, but, what if the majority is wrong from an ethical standpoint? The example brought up was the battle for civil rights, attention to which Governor Cuomo quickly averted. Interestingly, he brought up another human rights issue, that of slavery. 
The example of slavery has been widely used to parallel the abortion issue as a human wrong, once legally acceptable, rendered legally wrong by legislation resulting from a human rights battle. Cuomo defends the dis­creetness of his present day support of abor­tion by recalling that at the time of the Civil War, American bishops also chose to be dis­
creet in their support of slavery. If Governor 
Cuomo had been governor back then, he cer­
tainly would not have come under fire by the 
bishops; however, if this thinking is extended, 
if every state had had a Cuomo for governor, 
and if Cuomo replaced Cuomo through the 
years, slavery might still exist in this country. 
It is a shame that politicians sit hack in the 
security of numbers, while the Martin Luther 
Kings and the Dorothy Days carry on the· 
brunt of the human rights battle (and they 
work using politics, you can bet). Is It only 
when, through the work of these heroes, 
majority opinion is swayed that Governor 
Cuomo will jump on the bandwagon, too late 
to have helped in the effort? What a shame for 
an upcoming politician supposedly a new 
"leader" ofhis party. 
Governor Cuomo needs to carefully review his responsibility to the moral truth which his Church teaches. If a Catholic has to explicity sacrifice his basis of ethics to attain office, is not he as well as those he would serve better offif he works outside ofpolitics but in an ex­plictly sincere fashion? 
By giving Governor Cuomo the thunderous standing ovation we did, we students, exam­ples to who knows how many thousands of television viewers, vindicated Governor Cuomo's faulty position. Might we not have set the anti-abortion movement back years, and if we did wouldn't we be at least partly responsible for the millions of destroyed human lives which will result? 
john Reglabuto is a graduate student in chemical engineering at Notre Dame. 
P.O. Box Q 
There is only one set of Catholic standards 
Dear Editor: 
A column by Father Robert Griffin entitled 
"A Catholic University?" ha~ come, somehow, 
all the way to Virginia, though I'm not a Notre 
Dame man. It is further entitled "Letters to a 
Lonely God" though "Letters to a hanging­
loose God" might be rather more appropriate. 
At all events, in addressing the question, "Is 
Notre Dame still Catholic?" Father Griffin 
returns again and again to the counter­
question: "By whose standards?" One would 
suppose the answer would immediately sug­
gest itself: By the standards of the Holy Father 
in Rome. But that, evidently is not Father Grif­
fin's answt·r. His answer would seem to be that 
the standard of Catholicism that holds Martin 
Luther and Hans Kung to be solid Catholics is 
as good as any other. Strange, I always thought 
Martin Luther to have had leanings towards 
Protestantism. 
Anyhow, I thought I might, not precisely lay down an answer but suggest one. As Catholics often identify themselves ao; "cradle Cat­holics," I am, as it were, a "highchair Anglican"; and I learnt my faith through my mentor and friend, C. S. Lewis. But in the end, after thinking about "the question of Rome" for many years, reading). H. Newman, G. K. Chesterton, Ronald Knox and many another, I was received into Holy Mother Church. 
'Inc: question is why? Not, certainly, for the beauty of the liturgy. Not for small, beautiful churches. Not for a more loving welcome-the Anglicans are splendid at loving the neigh­hour. What then? What could persuade a life ­long Anglil'an, loving the Church of England, to wrench himself away from it? 
Well · I've "suggested" the answer to the question posed by Father Griffin. Why did I bt·comt• a Catholic in 1981? One hint: Father Griffin's column might have hindered my doing so; it assuredly would not have urged me towards that moment of decision. Notre Dame students, like Oxonians, wouldn't want me to spell out the answer. A university is a place to think. 
Sheldon Vanauken Lynchburg, Virginia 
So, little brother was listening after all 
Dear Editor: 
So, Little Brother was listening! AU this time I thought my many words of wisdom were being wasted on an indifferent little brother who wanted to look crummy at a dance and eat repulsively at the dinner table. 
Surprisingly, however, BigSjster listens too! Only a little brother can tell you your new polka-dotted dress looks like somethingout of a circus or ask when your are going to fix your hair after going through a two hour shampoo, blow dry, heat roller routine. 
Oh, we older sisters preferred not to listen as we turn to the bathroom for a complete makeover and dress change. Surely you've noticed -wasn't that you banging on the bath­room door screaming "Boy George gets ready in less time?" 
Subconciously, I suppose, brothers and sisters do feel the need to offer advice, even if it is in a "brotherly" or "sisterly" manner. Granted, telling you that your table manners resemble a hungry ape at the zoo is not the best way to encourage proper dining eti­quette, but it sticks, doesn't it? As Mom would say, "It's only because I love you." 
Well, Bob, if only you knew what I would give now if I could impart some sisterly wis­dom or hear some brotherly wisdom. Living in the big city of Dallas makes you lonely for brotherly advice. It would be nice to hear little brother say, "Mary Lynn, have you gained a few pounds?" I'd probably slug you, but deep down I'd know you cared. 
Your article made quite a statement for wo­men and big sisters everywhere. Hopefully, women will be able to listen to men the way men are making the adjustment to listen to women. We're all in this game together. 
Let us not get used to the idea that "she her­self will someday help handle the bigger things in life," but, rather, we ourselves will help handle the bigger things in life. 
Mary Lynn Vonderheide Dallas, Texas 
An economic report in plain figures 
Dear Editor: 
While I apprciate Professor James Rakowski's correction of my mistaken use of "percent" for "millions" in numbering those adversely pushed below the poverty level un­der Ronald Reagan's economic policies, I has­ten to note that the good professor implies that pessimism is misplaced. Yet even the most cursory review of the data reveals a frightening trend (whether measured in mil­lions or in percentages). 
According to The Economic Report of the President 1983 in 1980, 29.3 millions of per­sons were listed below the poverty level ( 13 percent of the 60.3 million families included in the data). In 1982, 34.4 millions ofpersons were listed below the poverty level ( 1 S per­cent of the 61.4 million families included in the data). An additional 5.1 million persons officially categorized as being at less than the subsistence is reason enough to bemoan the Reagan policies. (Ofcourse, ifwe were able to collect data on the "street people" and other marginalized citizens the picture is bound to be bleaker.) 
Whether the economic pie is cut into mil­lions or percentages, it is clear that there are now fewer and smaller pieces ofit going to the hungriest than before Reagan's "voodoo eco­nomics" mesmerized many into believing that ev<'ryone is benefitting from the Reagan tide. 
Michael Varga Graduate Student 
Rice responds to Marchal's criticism 
Dear Editor: 
I know very little about Vernon March~. 
But I do know that he did not read the eigllt 
page statement of mine that he criticized fcrr 
four columns in the September 19thObseroet·. 
Evidently he read only the five fragmentary 
sentences the Obseroer printed from the statt~­
ment. He even adopted a transcription error 
("perpetuating" for "perpetrating") made by 
the Obseroer. 
I would be pleased to provide a copy of the statement to Mr. Marchal or to any other member ofthe Notre Dame community on re­quest. In that statement I merely tried to set forth the simple fact that the teaching of the Catholic Church is clear, beyond debate, that the state is obliged to forbid abortion and that "a Christian can never conform to a law which is in itself immoral, and such is the case of a law which would admit in principle the licelty of abortion. Nor can a Christian take part in a propaganda campaign in favor of such a law, or vote for it." (Declaration on Procured Abortion, No. 22) The critical point is that the teaching Church consists of the Pope and the bishops in union with the Pope. Perhaps the most pervasive misrepresentation at Notre Dame is the falsehood that the teaching of the 
Church is found through the consensus of theologians. Of course, some theologians tell you that, but they have a vested interest in so doing. The visit of Mario Cuomo reinforced, with the Theology Department, this basic mis­representation. 
I would be pleased to provide a copy of the statement I wrote and copies of the relevant statements of the Magisterium to any who desire to read them. My phone number is S667 and my office is in Room 312, the Law School. 
Charles E. Rice Professor ofLaw 
The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Editor·tn·Chtef. Bob Vonderheide Busmess Manager . . Dave Taictet Managtng Editor . . . Mark Worscheh Controller . . Maripat Horne 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor. . . Margaret Fosmoe Adverttstng Manager . . Anne Culligan Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor . ....... Sarah Hamilton CtrculattOn Manager. . .... Jeff O'Neill reflect the poi1C1es of the adm1n1stration of etther 1nst1tution. The news is reported as News Edttor . . .. Dan McCullough Systems Manager. . Kevin Williams accurately and as ObJeCtively as possible. Unsigned ed1tonals represent the opinion Satnt Mary's Edttor .. Anne Monastyrski of a maJOrity of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries. letters and the inside Column Sports Edttor. Mtchael Sullivan present the v1ews of the1r authors Column space IS available to ail members of the Viewpotnt Editor . .. Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966
commun1ty. and the free expression of varymg op1n1ons on campus. through letters. Features Editor .. Mary Healy IS encouraged. Photo Editor. . ..... Pete Laches 
The Observer 
Saudi ship  
is exploded  
in Suez Canal  
Assodated Press  
CAIRO, Egypt --A saudi passenger  
ship on its way to pick up Moslem  
pilgrims in Saudi Arabia was rocked  
by an explosion yesterday in waters  
where 18 other vessels have been  
r,,  damaged by mines since July, ship­ping sources said. The sources, who spoke on condi­ 
r,  tion they not be identified, said the 1016-ton Belkis I reported "what  
r  sounded like  an  explosion" early  
'  Thursday in the Gulf of Suez about  
r  20 miles south of the southern end of the Suez Canal.  
~  Sources said the vessel's captain  
r  radioed there had been no injuries  
to  the  crew of about 55, and  no  
major damage to the vessel. The ship  
,f  was carrying no passengers at the time, the sources said. After Egyptian naval units arrived,  
r  the Belkls I sailed back to the port of  
~  Suez  under  its  own  steam  and  
r  dropped anchor in a waiting area.  
r  It was the first passenger ship to  
r  report an explosion since a series of  
r  mysterious blasts beginning July 9,  
r  prompting  a  multinational  search  
r  for mines in the Gulf ofSuez and ad­ 
r,  jacent Red Sea. Thursday's explosion was the first  
r  reported involving shipping in the  
~  area since Aug. 15.  
r  British Embassy sources in Cairo  
r  said the explosion took place in a  
r  sector of the gulf where four British  
r  mine-hunting ships and  a  support  
r r  vessel have been searching mines for more than a month.  for  
r  The explosion occurred as British  
r  and Egyptian salvage crews were ex­ 
r  amining a "mine-like device" found  
~  last week in the northern sector of the GulfofSuez.  

Far the largest selection of Notre Dame Apparel 
the 
Athlete's 
FOOT 
Near the campus Across from the Linebacker and King's Cellar 

Graduate Study in 
Public Policy 

The LBJ School of Public Affairs at The University of Texas at Austin L.ilphasizes public policy analysis, inter­disciplinary research ·and summer internships in govern­ment agencies in its graduate programs: 
-Master's Degree in Public Affairs -Joint Degrees Program with the UT Law School -Joint Degrees Program with the UT College of En­
gineering -Joint Degrees Program with the UTGraduate School of Business 
Financial aid and fellowships are available based on merit or need. 
MEET WITH A REPRESENTATIVE AT: 
University of Notre Dame Placement Office 

Thursday, Sept. 27, 1984 Call for an appointment 

Friday, September 21, 1984 -page 10 
SENIORS 
who have not yet signed upfor Sepjor Pomaits may do so this week by calling the DOME office 
239-7524 
evenings between 7 ana 11. 

QUEEN's CASTLE 
Students receive one free trial 
THE ROYAL BRONZE SUNTANNING CENTER 
272·0312;272-8471 
54553 TERRACE LN., S.R. 23 (ACROSS FROM MARTIN'S) 
HOUASo THURS.· 8o30-8o30 TUES., WED.. SAT. FRI.· 8o30·8o30 8o30·5o30 CLOSEDMONDAV 
with the purchase of a session! See a TAN in minutes not hours! Or refresh your tan!! 

DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU'RE GETTING FOR YOUR MONEY ON A SUN BED? 
OUR BED OFFERS: 
1. 
FACIAL TANNER 

2. 
NO COLORING CREAMS NEEDED TO OBTAIN ATAN 


INTRODUCTORY 3. NO BURNING, PEELING OR DRYING 
PRICES: 
4. SAFE WITH OVA BULBS IF THESE FACTORS ARE
5 SESSIONS ••••. 525 
PRESENT, YOU HAVE CHOSEN THE PROPER SUN TAN BED.
8 SESSIONS ••••• 535 REFRESH YOUR SJ ALL LADIES AND 
TAN IN MINUTES •••••• GENTLEMEN WELCOME GOOD THROUGH 
PRIVATE ROOMS 
AUGUST 31, 1114 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES 
NEEDS 
A FEW INDUSTRIOUS STUDENTS 


~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
, r 
~ 
r 
,r r 

POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Waiters Waitresses Bartenders Attendants 
Casual Employment Catering \ Positions 
Apply to: Dolores-North Dining Hall (6176) Jean-South Dining Hall (6147) Pat -Huddle (7157) 
By providing your name and social security number, we will clear financial aid for you. 

r 

a sports supplement
page 11 September 21, 1984 
ND hopes to stampede Buffs, win 2nd game 
Fresh .off comeback win last week, Irish look 
1 
1
for consistency over 60 minutes against CU 1 By LARRY BURKE Colorado's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense: ~ 
,
.Sports Writer Fans probably won't get bored with the Colorado offense, because there figures to be plenty ofpassing. The Buffaloes, 
~ 
Anyone who watched the Notre Dame-Michigan State game under third-year coach Bill McCartney, have a talented on television last Saturday may have thought that someone quarterback in Steve Vogel, but lack a strong running game. changed the t·hannd between halves, because it sure looked as When you consider this information, keeping in mind the state If there was a different game on the screen after intermission. of the Notre Dame secondary, the obvious conclusion is that 
Viewers also may have thought that the first half was simply the Buffs will pass and pass and pass. leftover footage from the season opener against Purdue, Vogel, a 6-4 senior, has posted some pretty impressive because, after committing five turnovers in that opening loss, numbers this season. In two games, he has connected on 43 of the Irish picked up where they left off by handing the ball over 82 passes for 626 yards and four touchdowms. With 3,106 to the Spartans four times in the first 30 minutes oflast week's career passing yards, Vogel needs only 26 more yards to contest. become Colorado's all-time leader in that category. He already 
'Jbe second half, however, looked a lot like a college football owns the school's career completion mark with 252, and his highlight film-a display of tenacious defense and high· 344 yards passing in the Buffs' opener against MSU marked powered offense. MSU managed only five first downs and 104 only the third 300-yard passing effort in Colorado history. total yardo; of offense in the second half, while Notre Dame For the Irish defense, a repeat oflast year's performance is 
converted an interception, a fumble and a blocked punt Into needed. The Irish did an impressive job against Vogel in three touchdowns. Colorado last season, holding him to 90 yards ofpassing in a 
'!bat was all the same team, though, and you're probably 27·3 win. But Faust Is aware that that feat will be a lot harder wondering what kind of effect that dramatic turnaround is to perform this year. going to have on the Notre Dame football team when they take "It starts to sound like a broken record, but we're going to the field this Saturday against the Colorado Buffaloes. After all, see another awfully good quarterback again this week in Steve the Irish should have learned something from last week's . Vogel," says Faust. "In two games this year, he's already got game, right? almost half as many passing yards as he had all last season. He 
"I hope the Michigan State game left a message with our got Colorado back in the ballgame against Michigan State players," says Irish head coach Gerry Faust. "Ifwe execute like almost singlehandedly, and he did it by throwing the ball when we're capable ofplaying, we can be a good football team. Michigan State knew it was coming. So our defensive back.s are Maybe we proved to ourselves that we can come back and win going to have another busy day." games like that. Vogel will be throwing primarily to sophomore tight end 
"We've struggled the first two week.s, but I think we learned John Embree, who has 13 receptions for 182 yards this season, a lesson or two In the second half against Michigan State. None and junior split end Loy Alexander, who has caught 9 passes of us ever stopped believing that this could be a good football for 131 yards. Sophomore tight end Ed Reinhardt had been team. Once we started doing the things we're capable of Colorado's top receiver, with 14,receptions f,Pr 190 yards and doing, we were okay. Now we've got to play with that two touchdowns, until he suffered a severe head Injury in last Intensity all the time." week's loss to Oregon. 
lbe Colorado game would be a good place to start. The Buffs are ranked fifth in the NCAA in passing yards, Lee Rouson averaging 313 yards per game. Vogel rank.s fifth in the nation in total offense at 281 yards per game, and Embree is ninth in CU running back receiving. 
Colorado's running attack centers around senior tailback Lee Rous on, who has 194 yards and two touchdowns on 53 carries this season. No other running back has carried the ball more than three times for the Buffaloes. 
see COLORADO, page 10 
The Man in the Middle 
Furjanic continues frish LB tradition 
By ED DOMANSKY sonalized, and I think that's what a student needs." Sports Writer Furjanlc receives close Instruction on the field as well as In the classroom. Under the watchful eye of 
Notre Dame football players come from high veteran linebacker coach George Kelly, Furjanlc has schools all around the country, and it is not uncom­worked his way Into his role as a valuable cog In the mon to find that they were highly recruited by other Irish defensive machinery. 
notable football powerhouses. "Tony has certainly played to our expectations and 
Junior middle linebacker Tony Furjanic is no at times beyond," says Kelly. "He is playing better this exception. And fortunately for the Irish defensive year than before and this Is the kind ofprogression we corps, Furjanlc turned down offers from some rather like to see. He is very reliable and intense, a real tempo impressive football schools. setter for our defense." 
"I was looking at Iowa and Penn State," said the 6-2, Furjanlc has Indeed made progress as a Irish football 
231-pounder from Chicago. "I like Hayden Fry and his player. As a freshman, he played in every game except program at Iowa, and I like Penn State's tradition as a the opener against Michigan, and picked up a good linebacker school. I finally chose Notre Dame monogram for his efforts. He even earned a starting 
because ofits tradition for linebackers and because I assignment against Air Force while Rick Naylor was liked the linebacker coach, Coach Kelly. I also really recovering from a hip pointer. His 22 tackles were felt that I could get a better education here than second only to Eric Dorsey among the 1982 freshmen. anyplace else." In 1983, Furjanlc started all 12 games and substan· 
Furjanic's family is very Important to him and for the tially improved upon his '82 tackle output by nearly third youngest of eleven children, personal reasons seven times. His 142 tackles, 45 solo and 48 first hits, also influenced his cholce to attend Notre Dame. were more than double any other Notre Dame player. 
"I come from a large family and I'm very close to He was also voted Notre Dame's defensive MVP of the 
them," says the 1984 winner ofthe Hering Award as '83 Uberty Bowl against Boston College for his the best linebacker ln spring practice. "I wanted to seven-tackle performance. He had at least ten tackles make sure that they could come to most of the games." In all games, Including 15 against Purdue, South "Now that I've been here, I really like it. I haven't been Carolina and Pittsburgh. able to experience it like most people or like I would Considered fo have the potential ofsuch former like to have, because football takes so much time," he Irish greats as Mark Zavagnln, Rob Crable and Bob adds. "I like the people and the atmosphere. The teachers are very good. Instruction is more per· see TONY, page 11 



...... 
COLORADO September 21, 1984 • page 12
lnsb Extra 
B0 mbs away· Pat Ball age and his secondary mates try to stop • opposing quarterbacks and quiet critical fans 
ByTHERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
When Colorado and Notre Dame take the field Saturday, there is a good chance that the ability of the Irish secondary to shut down fhe Buffalo passing game will have a profound effect on the outcome ofthe game. When one makes this comparison, it is the classic matchup: one team's strong suit against the other's major weakness. 
The Notre Dame's defensive backs have had many fingers pointed at them for the number of 
r mistakes they have made in the first two games. 
r Reasons for criticism range from loose coverage 
r to the increasing number oflong passes that are being completed amidst the defensive coverage. ~ junior cornerback Pat Ballage has received r more than his share of that criticism so far this r year. Ofcourse, Ballage has been there before. r Ballage, a native ofPueblo, Colo., started all 12 
l 
games last season and saw action his freshman year at the weak cornerback position. Much ofhis knowledge has been gained through on-the-job training. 
The 6-2, 190-pound Ballage played more minutes than any other member of the secondary 
as a sophomore. Many times it appeared that Ballage had missed an assignment when an 
opposing receiver would catch a pass and Ballage 
~ 
would come up for a late tackle. 
"Last year sometimes I wasn't sure why we did 
~ 
some ofthe things we did," he admits. "I like the defense we play now because I understand what we are trying to do." Now, after being the neophyte of the defensive~ 
backfield last season, Ballage, along with captain .Joe johnson, is a veteran of the Irish secondary. His role has changed from a pupil to a teacher. 
"Pat is an integral part ofour secondary," comments defensive coordinator and secondary coach Andy Christoff. "He can play most of the 


· 
positi0ns back there. His experience is also valuable because most of the other players in the same position have not had very much playing time." 
Even though the newcomers -offensive con­verts Mike Haywood and Hiawatha Francisco, and freshman Brandy Wells-have a great deal of athletic ability, Ballage knows that there's a lot more to playing the secondary than talent. 
"I think the younger guys who are backups are good athletes and have the ability to play," notes Ballage. :'But there's alot ofother things involved ­it's the mental parts and being able to keep your composure. 
"Ifone of the more experienced guys in the secondary were to get hurt, it would definitely hurt us as far as game experience. We've been hit with a lot ofcriticism already." 
Being a native ofColorado, the Buffalo game presents a problem ofa different kind for Ballage. "I like to go home and say that Colorado came out and we beat them," he says. "It turns out that there's a big rivalry between me and the whole state. The first question I hear when I come home is 'What happened to you guys against Air Force the past two years?' 
"Their team might have something against me leaving the state. It came down to Colorado and Notre Dame before I decided to come here. They have a good passing game and Steve Vogel is a really good quarterback." 
Ofall of the positions on defense, most people would admit that a defensive back's job is the hardest. Besides needing the quickness to react to the moves offleet receivers, they must also be able to read formations and determine what the quarterback is going to do. They also have the responsibility to make tackles on running plays that pass the line ofscrimmage. 
"A defensive back's job is so difficult because a receiver is running forward and you're running backward," says Ballage. "He knows where he's 
going, and you're just trying to guess where he's 
going and react to where he goes. In addition, the 
quarterback knows where he's going, too." 
Even though Christoft's new defensive philoso­phy only affects the alignment of the linemen and linebackers, theJob ofthe secondary has been made easier. 
"As far as assignments, it has taken some ofthe pressure offthe secondary," says Ballage. "The linebackers are now more involved in pass coverage." But that strategy has backfired in the first two games, with the injuries to starters Mike Larkin and Mike Golic requiring the coaches to use a freshman and a sophomore at those posi­tions. Still, the secondary has made some costly mistakes that have had little to do with the injuries. 
"I'm not going to make excuses for some ofthe mistakes we've made in the secondary in the first two games," says Christoff. "We have to play better." 
Making big plays can make people forget about a weakness, even for a defensive secondary. "I think Pat's capable of making big plays," Christoff says. "We've had three interceptions this year, and he's had two of them." 
Ballage knows that the secondary can come up with even more big plays ifit gets good help from the defensive line. "A good pass rush is very important to good pass defense -like good block­ing is important to a good running game," he explains. "As long as it's harder for the quarter­
back to throw a ball, whether the pass rush forces him to run or blocks his line ofvision, our job in the secondary is a lot easier." 
So far this season, though, the Irish pass rush often has been poor, and the secondary has been left alone to hear the criticism. "No one 
wants receivers to catch deep passes," Ballage says. "It's better that they catch the shorter routes. Sometimes you've got to play it that way. How tight you play the receiver depends on the situation. The hardest situation for a defensive back is when the quarterback rolls out. You don't know ifhe's going to run or pass, and all you can do is get on the who is in your zone and stay with him. 
"I prefer to play man-to-man technique," Ballage admits. "That way ifyour man catches the ball, it's one guy's fault. In a zone, it could be someone else's man. but you come there to cover up and 
John Carney 
ND kicker 
you look like the goat. In the play underneath the receiver deep. It's more like double 
Ifthere ever was a time for time. With quarterbacks like around the corner, the things together is great. And feels the pressure like Pat Ball; 
continued from page 9 
Injuriescontinue to plague the Irishdefense -particularly at the linebacker positions. Mike Larkin remains sidelined until midseason with knee ligament damage, and Mike Golic is questionable with a bruised shoulder. Inside linebacker Mike Kovaleski is also questionable after having bone fragments in his finger repaired Sunday. The return ofsophomore Dave Butler, who was suffering from infected lymph glands, will help the situation at linebacker, as will the continued fine play ofthe recently-returned Rick DiBernardo. 
Notre Dame's offense vs. Colorado's defense: 
Reisman Trophy candidate Allen Pinkett has been drawing plenty ofattention from opposing defenses, but he has still managed to score four touchdowns this season. Pinkett's effectiveness has been increased by the frequent use ofAlonzo jefferson, the sophomore tailback who contributed 40 yards on 11 carries in last week's victory. Both tailbacks figure to get the call often on Saturday, because the Irish have a great size advantage on the line ofscrimmage. 
Another reason that the Irish should run often is that the Buffs have been especially tough against the pass this season. Colorado ranks 13th in the nation in pass defense, allowing only 128.5 yards per game.through the air. 
This is a·secondary that lost two starters from last season, yet still has plenty of talent on hand. The veteran ofthe group is weak safety Kent Davis, a 6-1, 196-pound senior who posted 58 tackles for the Buffs last season. Joining Davis at the safety spot is sophomore Mickey Pruitt. The cornerbacks, senior Alvin Rubakaba and junior Solomon Wilcots, are both small and quick. 
"I feel we have the physical ability to piece together the talent in the secondary," says McCartney, "and, in time, Ron Dickerson (Colorado's defensive back coach) Will really develop a cohesive unit that will be good for the next few years." 
linebackers Don Fairbanks ( 26 tackles) and Barry Remington ( 14 tackles) lead the Colorado defense, a unit that starts eight upperclassmen. Noseguard Don Muncie is another standout veteran. 
"This is a defense that completely shut down Michigan State in the second halfoftheir game, even more so than we did," says Faust. "The only first down Michigan State got against them after the halfcame in the first few minutes ofthe third period, so they're certainly capable ofcausing problems for us." 
• • • Colo 
Injuries on offense continue to plagu the Spartans last week without the serv Miller (knee ligament damage) and joe pull). Howard should be back this wee· for a minimum offour weeks, after sutl first series against MSU. 
On the offensive line, guard Larry W questionable with an ankle injury suffe opener, andjackle Ron Plantz is recov 
inflammation in his left leg which force game. 
The kicking game and specialty t1 
The Buffaloes started the season mu< to replace a veteran kicker. Colorado h Notre Dame, however, as senior Larry I field goal tries in the Buffs' loss to MSU. 
Incumbent punter Allan Braun, who yards per kick last year, has struggled s1 
Colorado has two quality return me1l Nairn and junior Ron Brown. Nairn savl had an impressive debut this year, retul yards. Brown, Colorado's multi-purpos· on the team in all-purpose yardage last most of the kickoffs for Colorado. 
Both placekicker john Carney and p1 have performed well for the Irish so faJ need to cutdown on specialty team err particularly on the return teams. 
The keys to the game: 
The Irish have been about as predict year, playing poorly most of the time, t brilliance when least expected. Right n goal for Notre Dame to work for is coru minutes ofsolid football, and to avoid c\ 
Emotions should be riding high on S; their first game in Notre Dame Stadium, Buffaloes, out to avenge last year's 27-3' added inspiration for the injured Reinh 
With the talent they have in the bac should be able to move the ball consist provided it mixes up the plays well. 0 threat to the Irish offense J:ould be the 
Ifthe Irish don't beat themselves, ch won't. 

COLORADO September 21, 1984-page 13
lnsh Extra 

--.
~ ,' 

aan coverage we're playing now, you ,ecause you have another person rc:rage." 
he: secondary to mature, now is the Iarion Adler and Bernie Kosar just ~eon the Irish secondary to put :IU can bet that there is nobody who 1gc and thc othcr defensive backs. 
~rado 
e thc Irish, who faced 

Playing in obscurity 
Walk-ons sacrifice bodies but rarely see action 
ByJOE BRUNETII guy works as hard as another you get the same respect the Sports Writer scholarship players do. They're just like everyone else. They put their pants on one leg at a time." 
Most football fans probably think that playing football for the The amount oftime a coach spends with a scholarship player Golden Dome is the path that leads to nothing but fame and glory. differs compared to a walk-on, but the lack ofattention by the From the outside it would seem that playing football for Notre coaching staff is just another ofthe hardships the walk-on must Dame is a sure guarantee of an appearance on national television. face. 
However, this is not the case for one group ofNotre Dame "The coaches don't really recognize you when you're a football players, the walk-ons. Most walk-ons will never be seen on freshman," comments the sophomore Kvochak, "but as you get the football field on Saturdays, let alone on national television. seasoned you get looked at by the coaches. Eventually they'll get 
Playing on Notre Dame's prep team, or "meat squad" as it is around to you. That's just something you have to understand. You 
sometimes called, is hardly a job full ofaccolades and rewards. know the scholarship guys are going to come first." Prep-team players just don't make the front page of the sports By not being able to contribute directly to Irish victories on the section and their names sometimes aren't even in the game field, the walk-on must look for other rewards to being a member program. Yet, a prep-team player sacrifices his body every week in ofthe prep squad. . 
practice while preparing the first team for the upcoming game. "The knowledge that I'm contributing and giving of myself to the Then, when it comes to game-day, he is forced to either watch team is a reward in itself," says Seasly. "There Is not a lot of 
-
the game from the stand~ as a spectator or sit in front ofthe lV. recognition, but I know I'm contributing to the Notre Dame That hardly seems to be a fair reward for suffering great bodily football team. damage all week long. "When the offense does a good job like against Michigan State it 
Many walk-ons go through all ofthe pain and suffering for four gives us a pat on the back," continues the reserve defensive tackle. years, and yet they never suit up for a game until the final game of "Ifwe work hard then the first team will work hard. You know you their senior year. Rarely do they get to play in a game, but, year made those guys play better in the game." after year, they still make the sacrifice. The coaching staffdoes recognize when a walk-on performs 
"I play because of my love for the game offootball," comments exceptionally in practice, and the top offensive and defensive prep walk-on Mike Seasly. "The fact of knowing that I'm playing football players are awarded with a plaque each week. Seasly's extreme with the best people in the country provides me with a real hustle earned him the defensive award for the week of the challenge." Michigan State game. While players like Seasly play be'cause oftheir addiction to The work of the walk-ons also does not go unnoticed by the football, others receive their inspiration comes from a drive to play scholarship players. Without a good prep team in practice the first in a game for Notre Dame. team would not be as good In games, and the scholarship players "I hope that some day I might get to play," comments prep-team realize this. player Chris Kvochak. "I hope that I'll get my look (from the "The walk-ons are a major asset to the team," comments coaching staff) come springtime." defensive lineman Mike Gann. "we couldn't run practice without Kvochak and Seasly both suited up for last year's Navy game them. They're all bonafide members of the team. lbey sweat just 
when the coaches suited up the whole prep team, but,for players like we do and they don't get to play." like Kvochak, suiting up against the Midshipmen just wasn't the real Irish tailback Allen Pinkett feels that a major asset ofthe walk-ons thing. is the enthusiasm that they spread throughout the team. 
"It (suiting up for Navy) wasn't anything real special because "I have a tremendous amount ofrespect for them," says Pinkett. everyone got to suit up. It will be special if! get to suit up for a "They go through a lot ofgarbage, but they do it and they don't normal game." complain. 
Although the thought of quitting may run through the walk-on's "They contribute to the morale of the team. lbese guys are mind, the act ofactually quitting almost never becomes reality. high-spirited individuals who add enthusiasm." 
"When things get down I toy with the idea of quitting," says The ultimate goal of the walk-on is usually to either make the Seasly, "but when practice goes well I puf the thought out of my traveling squad or to play regularly. Kicker Pat Chura hao; mind. When I'm in practice I never think about it. It's only when I accomplished the first, but he does not feel satisfied by only being a look back do I start to think about quitting." member of the traveling squad. 
While at many other big time college football schools there may "It feels good to be on the traveling squad," says the transfer be a division between the scholarship athletes and the walk-ons, student, "but it's not satisfying. I'm going to continue: working hard this problem does not exist at Notre Dame. so that I can win the starting job. I still feel discontent." 
"It's just like you're one ofthe guys," continues Seasly. "Ifone When a walk-on proves to have enough talent to get some ­playing time he becomes the new kid on the block, and he must establish his credibility against the scholarship athletes. 
"At the beginning I had to do something to establish my credibility," continues Chura. "You have to prove yourselffrom the start. I think that it took more for me to prove myself to the coaches than it does for the established players." 
Mike Kovaleski 
Obviously the life ofa walk-on is not an easy one. It Is a life of many sacrifices and few rewards. But for the walk-ons on the Notre
NO linebacker 
-

COLORADO September 21, 1984 • page 14
lnsb Extra 
NOTRE DAME VS. COLORADO 
THE STATISTICSTHE GAME 
1983 
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Colorado BuJfaloes TEAM STA11S11CS ND OPP REC~G G NO YDS AVG TD LG 
SITE: Notre Dame Stadium ( 59,075) 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 599 692 Bavaro 2 7 92 13.1 0 24
Game
TIME: I :30 EST; Saturday, Sept. 22, I984 Total Plays 127 135 Pinkett 2 4 76 19.0 I 40 1V-RADIO: WNDU·lV(Ch. I6) 
Yards per Play 4.7 5.1 Howard 2 3 61 20.3 0 26 Jack Nolan and Jeff Jeffers 
Yards per Game 299.5 346.0 Jackson 2 4 61 12.6 I 26 October 1,1983 
PENALTIES-YARDS 9·61 14-141 Brown 2 4 49 12.3 0 19 Notre Dame 10 7 7 
FUMBLES-LOST 6·5 4·2 Smith 2 18 18.0 0 18 TCS/Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 
Colorado 3 0 0 0 ­
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 39 37 Miller 2 15 15.0 0 15 Harry Kalas and George Connor 
By Rushing 18 14 Brooks 2 13 13.0 0 13 By Passing 18 20 ScorlnJ 
By Penalty 3 3 NOTRE DAME 2 25 375 15.0 2 40 Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network 
THIRD DOWNS·CONV 2'H3 27·10 OPPONENTS 2 29 404 13.9 2 50 CU-Fi<ld 43 FG 
ND-Pinkett 10 run (Johnston kick) 
Percentage .560 .370
Tony Roberts, Pat Sheridan, Luther Bradley 
PASSING G NO CO PCTINT YDSTD
NO -Johnston 21 FG 
POSSESSION TIME '!5:43 64:17 
-
WNDU-AM 1500 
ND-Brooks 3J run (Johnston kick) 
Minutes per Game 27:52 32:08
NO -Smith 29 run (Johnston kick) 
Beuerlein 2 41 25 .610 4 375 2 ND -johnston 39 FG
SERIES: Notre Dame I, Colorado 0 SCORING GTD PA R-PA S FG TP ND 2 41 25 .610 4 375 2
LAST MEETING: October I, I983 
OPP 2 45 29 .644 3 404 2
Notre Dame 27, Colorado 3 
Pinkett 2 4 0-0 3·1 0 0-0 24 DEFENSE TM U-YDS Pllll FR BK
ND CU 
Carney 2 0 6-6 0·0 0 ).) 9 RANKINGS: Notre Dame unranked, Colorado unranked 
First dowru; 24 20 
Rushing attempts 54 32 
Jackson 2 I 0-0 0·1 0 0-0 6 Net Yard'i Rushing 334 108 
Kovaleski 23 1·3 l 0 0Brooks 2 I 0·0 1·0 0 0-0 6
TICKETS: Game is sold out 
Net Yards Passing 160 
Furjanic 19 0·0 0 0 0 Passes comp-aucmptcd 10·16 
Johnson 15 0-0 l 0 0 Had intercepted 0 
ND 2 6 6-6 . 4·2 0 1·1 45 Banks 9 0-0 0 0 0OPP 2 4 3·4 2·2 0 5·5 43
Total Net Yards 494 
Ball age 9 0·0 0 0 0
Fumbles-lost 1·0 
DiBernardo 8 0·0 0 0
Penalties-yards 6-H 
RUSIUNG G NO YDS AVG TD LG Griffin 6 0-0 0 0
Punts-average 2·38.5 
Wilson 5 0·0 0 0 0 Pinkett 2 44 129 2.9 3 II Gann 5 3·43 0 0 0 Brooks 2 II 48 4.4 I 12 Kleine 5 1·1 0 I 0 
THE SCHEDULE 
lndMdual Leaders RUSHING -Notre Oameo Pinken 111-132; Smith 10· 
Jefferson 2 II 40 3.6 0 9 FrancL';co 5 0·0 0 0 0
NOTRE DAME COLORADO 
Smith 2 7 14 2.0 0 7 Lawrence 4 0-0 I I 0
70; Francisco 10·49; Brooks 3·42; Flemons 4·33; Mach·
SEPT. 8lost to Purdue, 23-21 SEPT. 8lost to Mich. St., 24-2I 
tolf 4-13; Colorado: Rousson I I-S3; Johnson 9-4 Miller 2 13 13.0 0 13 Haywood 4 0·0 0 0 
Vogel 4-6; McLemor~ 3· 3i 
SEPT. I5 def. Mich. St., 24-20 SEPT. I5lost to Oregon, 27-20 
Beuerlein 2 12 ·20 ·I.7 0 5 Figaro 4 0-0 0 0 0 SEPT. 22 COLORADO 
l)lngens 3 0·0 0 0 0 NOTRE DAME 2 86 224 2.6 4 13 Dorsey 2 0·0 0 0 0 
SEPT. 22 at Notre Dame 
SEPT. 29 at Missouri SEPT. 29 UCLA 
PASSING -Notre Dame: Beucrleln 8·12·0,133; Kid OPPONENTS 2 90 288 3.2 2 23 Bobb 0 0 0
0·0
OCT. 6 at Missouri OCT.6MIAMI 
2·3·0,27; Smith 0·1·0,0; Colorado: Vogel 12·25·0,90;
I 
Bavaro 0·0 0 0 0 Marshall 3·7·1 ,37;
OCT. I310WASTATEOCT. 13 AIR FORCE 
Howard 0·0 0 0 0 KICKOFF RET NO YDS AVG TD LG 
Perrino 0-0 0 0 0 RECEMNG-Notre Dame: Howard 4-83; Francisco 
O~T. 20 NEBRASKAOCT. 20 SOUTH CAROUNA OCT. 27 at Oklahoma StateOCT. 27 at L.S.U. 
3·36; Bavaro 2·27; Smith 1·14; Coloradoo Hcstera 4-43; Jefferson 3 63 21.0 0 23 PUN11NG G NO YDS AVG LG 
NOV. 3 KANSAS 

21 21.0 0 21
NOV. 3 Navy at Meadowlands 
10 10.0 0 10 Viracola 2 7 308 44.0 50
NOV. 10 OKLAHOMA NOV. I7 PENN STATE 
! 
NOV. 24 at Southern Cal NOV. I7 at Kansas State 
5 94 18.8 0 23 NOTRE DAME 2 7 308 44.0 50 5 82 16.4 0 37 OPPONENTS 2 10 370 37.0 48 
t 
~ 
~ ... 
t. I 
I 

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other Mike Sullivan JeffBiumb Larry Burke Theron Roberta Ed Dom11naky Jim Baron Stanton Taylor words, it isn't enough to pick the Sports Editor Asst. Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Writer Sports Writer Guest Celebrity Random Student winner of a given game. The person 10-15 10-15 10-15 8-17 8-17 12-13 14-11 must pick the winner and give the .400 .400 .400 .320 .320 .480 .560 underdog points. Home team is in (last week-6-7) (last week-7·6) CAPS. 
Pittsburgh over TEMPLE by 6.5 Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers MICHIGAN over Wisconsin by 7.5 Wolverines Badgers Badgers Badgers Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Clemson over GEORGIA by 3 Tigers Tigers Tigers Bulldogs Tigers Bulldogs Bulldogs OHIO STATE over Iowa by 3 Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Buckeyes Hawkeyes Buckeyes Hawkeyes Buckeyes WEST VIRGINIA over Maryland by 11 Mountaineers Mountaineers Terps Terps Mountaineers Terps Terps NAVY over Virginia by 7 Wahoos Middies Wahoos Middies Middies Middies Middies ILLINOIS over Michigan State by 7 Spartans Spartans Spartans Spartans Illini Illini Spartans NORTHWESTERN over Indiana by 2 Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Hoosiers Wildcats Hoosiers Wildcats PURDUE over Minnesota by 13 Gophers Gophers Gophers Gophers Boilers Gophers Boilers Nebraska over UCLA by 9 Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruins Bruim Bruins Cornhuskers MIAMI over Flm:ida State by 2.5 Hurricanes Hurricanes Seminoles Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes BOSTON COLLEGE over N. Carolina by 8 Eagles Eagies Eagles Eagles Eagies Eagles Heels ARIZONA STATE over Southern Cal by 1 Devils Trojans Trojans Trojans Devils Trojans Trojans NOTRE DAME over Colorado by i0.5 Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes BuJfaloes Buffaloes Irish Buffaloes 
I
b tOt 'tr -. I' 



Showcase 
Friday, September 21, 1984 page 15 
Letters to a lonely God 
Burial rights of an embryo 
error can be a dangerous way of
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
learning maturity. Some kinds offeatures staff writer maturity make young people look old before their time. Ofcourse, I The hero ofthis story is the hus­am one of the paternalistic priests. 
A 
young husband called to tell band who called me; it was because I have official opinions from the
me that his wife, in the begin­ofhis faith I spent half an afternoon Church which I trust. Official 
ning months ofpregnancy, had suffered a miscarriage. Waking up looking for a resting place for a opinions are not so well informed candy box. The morning sickness as the experience ofpeople who
that morning, she had not been that interrupts a pregnancy is not have been there and back. I get
well; as a result, the embryonic life unusual, and the effects of the ter­invited to perform a marriage for a
got left in the bathroom as a small pool of sickness which dried on the 
mination get dealt with casually. couple, whose welfare becomes The young man wanted to be re­important to me. After a year or
linen napkin used to pick it up. The husband wanted to know ifhe 
sponsible for something belonging two, the couple make their great could bring me the towel stained 
to him. I could not use shortcuts announcement: they will be new with life, to be disposed ofwith 
without letting him down, though I parents before springtime. For do not think God would have weeks, the husband cherishes his
respect and affection. On getting the small candy box he had put the 
minded if I omitted the mini-rituals. wife with child. They look forward to their blessed event. They discuss linen in, I treated it with every saints' names for their coming child;Christian tenderness that could be I have been reading a letter from they plan the baptism which willoffered to a life so far away from a graduate complaining about the welcome the child to the Church.
birth, out of respect for the small over-protectiveness of Notre Dame: Suddenly, on a tearful day, they
miracle ofevolution that got lost on "The frailties ofthe young are discover they have lost the baby.
the way to becoming a fetus. Later, symptomatic ofimmature per­The husband brings me a Whit­
the parents would speak of losing sonalities struggling for a sense of man's Sampler box containing all
their baby; maybe they were cor­their own identities...All young they will ever know of the infant
rect, though the remains that were people learn about maturity by trial they were waiting for. "Who elseburkd were in the embryo stage, I and error. Notre Dame makes a can I give it to but a priest?," hethink, I had to make an act offaith mistake in mandating maturity by seems to ask, "since in our hearts
that blood and mucous were edict...It is not so much a parent's we loved it as an angel coming from
developed enough to have a soul so responsibility to keep 'fallen angels' God." I am not free to give it a
early, so that I could pray for the in the heavens as it is to straighten secular disposal as though it were
soul to enter heaven. Catholics are their feathers when they crash...You an appendix.
used to believing more than their cannot make someone what they I have never seen an embryo.
eyes can show them, as when on will not be. What has Notre Dame Even if! were curious, the napkinseeing bread and wine at a Euc­become in the end? Short-sighted. 
keeps its secret; nothing on thisharist, they celebrate the nearness Tragically short-sighted." 
cloth would give the clue ofanof God; or in meeting a wino hun­Over-protectiveness is a Catholic identity. My faith is not perfect. Godgering and thirsting, they believe hang-up. The Church leads the way watches what I am doing; He wouldthe kindness they offer him is a in protectiveness. Maybe it is short­be patient with someone who
service to Christ. sighted to want rules regulating decided to skip the burial, I believe.
Receiving this small container everything. Laws are essential in a He alone in all this wide world, Iwhich a local hospital would have society in which people learn by suspect, could explain the preciseburned for me, I blessed the grave experience that they cannot trust dignity of the stains on the linen I1n which I placed it, wondering If one another. After reading the place with so much care in thethe ground would be stirred by newspapers, which strangers would ground. The modest vestiges of thetrumpet blasts when the dead in you be willing for your children to lost miracle must be holy in his Christ shall rise. Other Christians, trust? The world is terrifyingly sight. I plant flowers to mark thesure of their theology, can chide me careless. The world has become so spot with love, wondering at thefor not being sure if that corruptible careless with life that it is hard to mystery the falling rain, walking planting will rise incorruptible. I believe that an amendment can be barefoot through the grass, will did the best I could for the very passed now, mandating people to find.
young remains. respect life before birth. Trial and 
Books 

•MOVIES 
Tonight and tomorrow the Student Activities Board will present 
"Excalibur." Nichol Williamson stars as Merlin in this adventure 
which takes place in the era ofKing Arthur and the Knights of the 
Rou~d Table. Showings will be at 7, 9:30, and 12 in the Engineering 
Auditorium and Admission is S1.50. 
~e F~iday ~ight Film.Series wlll present "And the Ship Sailed On. Th1s ltal1an film ( wtth English subtitles), directed by Federico Fellin!, is set in 1914 on the eve of World War I. It develops as a comic salute to art, especially music, as well as a fondly ironic recollectio.n of the lavishly irrelevant life style ofthe aristocracy. The film wlll be shown at 7:30 and 9:30 in the Annenburg Auditorium and admission will be $2. 50. 
•MUSIC 
<?n Sunday, concert pianist Kayo Tatebe will perform her second recital at Notre Dame. Highlights of the performance will be Mozart's "Sonata inC Major" and Beethoven's "Moonlight Sonata." The recital will commence at 8 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium and admission is free. 
•ART 
The Visiting Artist lecture Series, sponsored by the departments ofArt, Art. Hi~tory and Design, and the Snite Museum, will begin on Su?day w1th Its first speaker -Nathan Oliveira, sculptor and pnntmaker. The lecture will begin at 2 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. ' 
The exhibition "Andre Kertesz: Form and Feeling," which began on Aug. 26, continues at the Snite Museum and will continue through Oct. 20. There are eighty-eight photographs in this retrospective collection spanning 1914-1972. The display is on loan from the Hallmark Photographic Collection and is touring the nation. Hours at the Museum are 10 to 4 Tuesday through Friday; 1 to 4 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays; and Thursday evenings from 4 to8. 
•MASS 
The celebrants for masses at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father David Schlaver at 5: 15 (Saturday night vigil). 
Father Francis Cafarelli at 9 a.m. 
Father Andre levellle at 10:30. 
Father Mark Poorman at 12:1 5. 
-

Death rides a pale horse 
people before relieving them ofby Paul Cimino their life force. Anthony uses these characters to show his reader that
features staff writer 
death isn't fair but necessary and while it may weigh heavily on the 
A
are you one ofthose people story but at the same time the story hearts of the deceased's survivors who loves to read? Do you stop does not rely totally on them. True, they should also be happy in the ' and browse in every bookstore you this is Science Fiction/Fantasy, knowledge that the person's soul pass during a journey through a however, there always remains a has found eternal joy.
mall? If so, you may have noticed an modicum of believability. 
This book must have been the eye-catching yellow jacketed book, Zane finally decides that suicide product of many hours of with a scene on the cover depicting is his only way out. As he holds the philosophical pondering on the the Grim Reaper driving a Ferrari­pistol up to his head, he notices the subjects ofdeath, the afterlife, and spectre of Death walk through thetype automobile, littering the war. It would also seem quite possi­door. Not really wanting to die,"Bestsellers in Fiction" displays. 
ble that Anthony may have recentlyZane fires the pistol at Death andAnd if you haven't, you probably experienced a death in his ownkills him. Zane must now take thewill next time. 
family as the feeling with which his In any event, my girlfriend does 
place of Death and perform all 
messages are expressed quicklylove to read, as do I. Usually, when 
duties associated with the office 
finds its way to the reader's heart. she finishes a book, she passes it on 
until he is likewise relieved. Thus 
Anthony's style is also something to me. One day not too long ago she 
begins Zane's venture into immor­which should not be overlooked as 
handed me On a Pale Horse by tality. As Death, he is one of the five trivial to the total effect of the work. 
Piers Anthony. Now, I had heard of Incarnations; the others being Fate, ­
While the first few chapters may at Piers Anthony before but had never Time, War, and Nature. Throughout 
times seem juvenile in develop­read any ofhis books. Piers Anthony the book he converses with each of 
ment, the rest of the book finds the 
is a noted Science Fiction/Fantasy the other Incarnations and at one author blending sincerity with veryauthor and has won many awards point must even deal with the Devil light humor which is very entertain­for his writing. The book looked himself to save the Earth. 
ing. This coupled with a style that interesting enough so I thought it So, you're saying, "Paul, I have allows for easy reading makes this might be deserving of my time. I too much reading to do as it is. 
book truly a delight. 
was absolutely correct. What explanation you have leads "On a Pale Horse" is the story ofa me to believe that this book is just Overall, you can't lose with this man named Zane who is down on another piece of worthless drivel.'' book and as it is the beginning ofa larger work it will leave you eagerly 
his luck. Zane is broke, soon to be Not so, elocutionist! evicted from his apartment, and The true beauty of this literary awaiting more. So go ahead and try 
worse yet, blames himself for his work lies not in its storyline or its Death out. You may like it! mother's death. Anthony places degree ofbelievability but actually Zane and the rest ofhis characters 
in the messages which Anthony on Earth but not an Earth like the conveys to the reader. Throughout Paul Cimino is a sophomore in one we know. On this Earth people the story, Death must take the College ofScience at Notre 
study both science and magic. 
numerous people's souls and in Dame and a regular Features con­Spells play an integral part in the 
many instances he talks to the tributor. 

Showcase 
Friday, September 21, 1984 -page 16 
Art Carter art exhibit influenced by 'lunatics' 
I 
I 
.._ 
by Cathyann Reynolds 
features staff writer 
I
t was Saturday, and Notre Dame just beat Michigan, 24-20. I walked in this particular room and I felt alive. Carol Ann Carter's exhibit sang with color. I was at the Cen­tury Center, South Bend. This ex­hibit, called "For My Mother," opened September 9, but can be enjoyed until October 14. 
The history and process ofthe artist's work have intrigued her wide public audience. Unfortun­ately some ofus missed the opening show, where ~arter related her experience in Nigeria, the inspira­
tion for her current work. The slide show ofNigeria and past related works opened her exhibition with a personal touch. The stories and feelings hold together her media. Raw silk, thread, sequins, pins, Indian seed beads, buttons, horse hair, wood, twine, and old prints, mostly from Nigeria, have become an intriguing exhibition. 
Carter, an art professor at St. Mary's College, spent nine weeks in Nigeria as part ofa travel-study grant from the Lilly Foundation. The Nigerian textiles were to be her concentration but the artist 
became inspired by the "lunatics" 
who dotted the road as she 
travelled through Nigeria. 
The "lunatics," as her driver called them, dressed illogically but beautifully. They became exciting visuals for Carter. A homeless and forever wandering people, the "lunatics" emotionally inspired the artist. The attempt to resolve the observations abroad resulted in a lively, yet startling, exhibit. 
The "Mix," shown on the exhibi­tion postcard, fascinates the viewer's eye. The piece is calm from inner stability, dynamic from 

Willie Nelson brought his "family" to the A CC, favorites but still failed to establish a good rap­where he played to a predominantly non-student port Pith the audience. crowd Wednesday night. Nelson played 36 
It just wasn't the usual Willie 
by Mark Worscheh 
features staffwriter 
F
orget the analysts, drop the therapy. You got problems? One Willie Nelson concert will soothe what ails you. Usually. 
Willie sings about it all: lost loves, lonely cowboys and hard times. But before you get to feeling sorry for yourself, he picks you up with foot­tappin' country pop, the tunes that have made Willie famous for years. Everything's going to be all right, because everything's all right with Willie. 
A clean-shaven Willie brought his "family" into the ACC Wednesday night and mixed old favorites with a few new ones for almost two hours in front ofthe predominantly non­student crowd. The crowd responded warmly to Willie's mix ofsad ballads, upbeat melodies and "give 'em hell" drinking songs. 
Two songs from The Songwriter, a movie scheduled to be released by Thanksgiving starring Kris Kris­tofferson, drew cheers: "Who'll Buy My Memories" and "Write Your Own Songs," a caustic indictment of a Mr. Music Executive whom Willie tells to "lay on your ass and get richer, or write your own songs." 
Playing in front ofa giant Texas flag, Willie opened (and closed) to whoops and hollers with "Whiskey River." From there, the roller coaster ofemotions took off, with the slow and reflective "TimeJust Slips Away" and "I'm Crazy," both songs about romances gone sour. 
But there's no time for sorrow, 
for Willie's on to the next tune in a 
matter ofseconds. There are no extended ovations during Willie's 
shows: concerts are for music, not 
for listening to excess applause. 
"But It's My Life," a blues-y tune, led into Bobbie Lee Fletcher's piano solo well, but those instrumental solos got to be a little tiring. It seemed that every time the crowd started to really get into Willie, a solo would come along, and the rhythmic hand-clapping would fade, overpowered by either guitar or bass. 
The conflict was the only major disappointment in the show: Willie never seemed to establish a good rapport with the audience. The endless tune-playing was great, but cutting offthe applause left me with the feeling that my opinion wasn't wanted. Willie's occasional "Thank y'all" helped, but it did not cure the wound. 
Perhaps Willie did not feel quite right, either, for the 36-song show was short by his usual standards. There was only one encore. 
Nevertheless, the set ofsongs off Willie's best-selling "Stardust" album perked everyone up, at least for a while. The optimistic "Blue Skies" led off, followed by "Georgia on my Mind" with one of Mickey Raphael's best harmonica harps of the night. "All of Me" and the title track finished off. 
Willie took us back to the ranch with "My Heroes Have Always Been Cowboys" and "Momma Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up to be Cow­boys." Those on the floor ofthe ACC rocked from side to side with the beat, giving Willie his biggest 
ovation of the night. 
It's a shame that advertising 
works so well, because throughout 
"On The Road Again" I kept en­
visioning the United Limo bus. The 
image almost ruined Willie's emo­
tional "Always On My Mind," one of 
the band's big hits. 
Willie showed he can still keep 
the harmony, doing ex-Eagle Don 
Henley's "Uncloudy Day" and 
"Amazing Grace." Look for the 
nameJill Floyd in the next couple 
ofyears. The 13-year-old from Fort 
Worth sang a section of"Amazing 
Grace" that was truly stunning for 
an eighth grader. 
The first encore came after only one hour and 3 5 minutes ofstrum­ming, much to the dismay of the almost-filled concert set-up of the ACC. Quite a few patrons even headed for the exits, either unaware that the "required" encore was coming or uncaring. 
For that five-song encore, Willie brought out a remake of"Good Morning, America" and the popular "To All The Girls I've Loved Before," complete with a Texas twang impression of}ulio Iglesias. 
Willie's shows feature no lasers, no props or gimmicks. Yet, even though he's no Billyjoel or Bruce Springsteen in terms ofstage perfor­mance, Willie owed it to the crowd to be a little more ofa showman. For much ofthe night, I didn't feel like the "family" knew I was listen­ing. Those seeing Willie for the first time may have been quite disap­pointed. I was not, for I knew that Willie was not that far off his norm ­just a little, and just enough to make the show a bit unsatisfying. It just didn't seem like the usual Willie. 
the twists ofcloth, alive from its mension. Even those who usually 
variety ofvalues and hues. Dazzling just scan the walls ofgalleries stay pins and decorated wood stimulate and comment on the visual excite­the viewer with texture. ment. One can not help but be 
Carter says the exhibit is not intrigued with the Nigerian experi­
"polished work" but is transient for ence named, "For My Mother." her future works. The "Handbag" The exhibit is being held at the clearly shows the artist's con­Women's Art League Gallery of the tinuance and growth from her Art Center, located in the South printmaking. The piece, which Bend Century Center at 120 S. St. hangs like a handbag, uses actual joseph St., I not sell our South Bend. pieces from old prints. It is open from 12:30 to 5 Tuesday 
Artists and people who know through Saturday, and from 12 to 5 Carter are excited by her emer­Sunday. gence and transition to a new di-
Bits and Pieces Wumpus 

NO) NO,~ I 
TAKE THAT BACK. HE CALLED IT FOUL///! 
A clean-shaven Willie Nelson 

-
• 
Showcase 
Friday, September 21, 1984 -page 17 
Movies 
All ofMe -at last a real contedy 
that way throughout the film. AI/ of ME presents its characters and
by Stephen Thomas 
exposes them for what they reallyfeatures staff writer are. It Is this attention for detail that 
N
othing's harder to do than a comedy. That line is often heard in the world of live theatre where trying to "make 'em laugh" is hig husiness. The same rule applies to tell-vision. At a time when critics affirm "the death of the situation comedy," people are reluctant to laugh at predictable formula comt·dics. 
'Inc same lack of fresh comedy plagues the tllrn world. For those who seck relief from countless sequels to "Porky's" and "Bachelor Party," I bring good news. 
All ofMe is a Universal release which opens nationwide at theatres today. It is a comedy that offers fresh situations and creative humor and, best ofall, It's about people. Yes, people, something everyone can Identify with more easily than a Gremlin. 
All ofMe stars Steve Martin as Roger Cobb, an attorney who is looking for something exciting in his life. He finds handling domestic cases for a law firm unfulfilllng. 
Uly Tomlin plays Edwina Cut­water, a rich invalid who is nearing her death. Martin Is assigned to handle the affairs of her estate. When he goes to visit Tomlin, he finds her very determined to buy herself a second chance for a hap­pier life. She tells Martin that, with the help ofa guru, her soul will enter Into the body of her stablchand's beautiful daughter. 
Unfortunately, when the time comes to transfer souls, things do not go a.o; planned and (you guessed It) Tomlin's soul ends up In Martin's body. Martin finds himself on the left side of his body and Cutwater on the right. He Is truly an androgynous, yet not quite her­maphroditic, sight. 
After Cutwater enters his body, she begins to .Interfere with his daily activities. She makes a fool of him in court, ruins his love life and is forced to "help him out" in deli­cate situations like going to the bathroom. 
As the film progresses, the novelty of the situation wears off. Unlike Woody Allen'sZelig, this film Is careful not to fall into dis­


makes the film unique. Every char­advantages of being a "one joke acter, no matter how small, has movie." When the plot becomes something important to say. This is more complex, the humor is toned a type of Big Hollywood movie that down and the messages of the we haven't seen in a long time. movie begin to come into focus. After the film is over, it's hard not It's these messages which make to feel happy.Al/ ofMe not only this film special. We not only have a reflects traditional values themati­good time, but think some things cally, but stylistically as well. It's a over In the process. more traditional Hollywood prod· 
lbe themes include what money uct representing a type offilmmak­really can and cannot buy. When ing that Is sure to be a success. You Martin a.o;ks Tomlin why she's so won't find any spaceships, 
convinced that she's going to get a Ghostbusters, Gremlins, or ET's second chance at life, she responds calling home in this film. just "because I am rich." Later in the people. Go see it. 
_... 
Spinster Edwina Cutwater (Lily Tomlin) languishes in luxury as she schemes to free her spirit from her dying body. 

film, she confesses that her money did everything but make her happy. 
Second chances are another theme given much attention in the film. All the characters are given a . second chance in one way or an­other. These second chances always seem to come when the characters reveal their true selves. One charac­ter realizes that the other is not all that bad, and is willing to forgive. This leads to the most important theme -things are not always as they appear. Edwina's world of riches seems tempting, yet is not enough. Being a lawyer would seem a satis­fying job for most ofus, yet Martin is unfullfilled. 
Acomedy of lesser quality would have given us stereotyped charac­ters in the beginning and kept them 
Feature briefs 
Clean your plates! 
Associated Press 
Jay Martin uses foreign-language dictionaries and even the California Penal Code to make sure state resi­dents clean up their plates -the ones on their cars, that Is. 
Martin, 53, a great-aunt whose personalized license plate reads AUNTYJ, is chief censor of vanity plates for the state Department of Motor Vehicles. Each year, she rejects I percent of the I 50,000 applications a.'i being offensive, misleading or in poor taste. 
"It still amazes me how tricky some people can be," she said recently. 
Once she accepted a urologist's request for the plate CME2P be­cause it "was kind of cute." But she turned down 4NIC8. The applicant said it was for his brother Nick who had an 8-cyllnder car. 
"We told him that maybe Nick should get a six-cylinder car," said Martin. 
In I970, the most sought-after plate was PEACE, she said. This year the most common requests Include GO FOR IT, IM A IO and PORSCHE. 
Martin catches most off-color plates, although she said one that got through bore a Spanish word meaning "wind from the bowels." 
Studying 
the mush 
Associated Press 
Louise Dauner says soap operas are "mush that is being spooned into the mouths of the American public," but don't call to dispute that between II a.m. and noon on weekdays. 
That's when the retired Indiana University-Purdue University, In­dianapolis professor is doing re­search for her class, "Soap Opera: An American Cultural Phenome­non." 
"I, too, am in the process oflearn· ing about soap operas for this class," says Dauner, who holds a Ph.D. in literature from the University of Iowa and teaches it for a Learn and 
Bits and Pieces Wumpus 
CURSE? WHAT C 
Shop program, offered at shopping malls. 
"You can commit yourseU to doing something with every atom ofyour personality, and in the ex­ecution of that you may find happi­ness as a byproduct," she said. "But you can't really go out and search for it· except in Soapland, that Is." 
-·-·-------------------------~ 
---------~------------------·--------------­
• 
Friday, September 21, 1984-page 18
Sports Briefs 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will play Saint 
Mary's today at 4:30 p.m. behind Stepan Center. On Sunday, the 
team will travel to Bloomington to take on Indiana University. -The 
Observer 
The Notre Dame field hockeyt~am's game at Taylor College on Wednesday was cancelled. The Irish wome~ The varsity lacrosse teamwill take on a team of return to action against Valparaiso today at 4:30 p.m. on Alumm alumni tomorrow at 10 a.m. on Cartier Field. Admission to the game is free. -The Observer 
Field.-The Observer. 
see BRIEFS, page 20 
Please 
I 
support the AMERICAN 
YCANCER 
fSOCIETY® 
This space contributed as a public service. 
The Ohsen•er Notre Dame offitT. located on the third floor of Lafortune ~tutknt Center. anTpb classified adn·rti,ing from lJ a.m. until·! p.m.. \londay through fridaY. Tbe Ohserl'er Saint Maq ·,office. lot·ated on the third tloor of Haggar Collegt· Center, accepts classified., from 12::10 p.m. until :\ p.m.. ~I on· day though Frida\'. Deadline for nt·xt·day classitied' i' .~ p.m. All da"itkds mu't he prepaid. either in person or hi' mail. Charge i., I o tTnb per fil'e charac·
Classifieds 
ters erda\'. 
NOTICES  ,.  Unfurnished Apt For Rent 9 Blocks from N.D. 2 Bedrooms, Living Room, Dining Room & Kitchen  Gimme gimme gimme gimme some Colorado tix. I don't care how many, just gimme gimme gimme. Gimme gimme gimme some Colorado tix. Gimme 'em  for sale: 1 o (len) Colo. tix. all together 277-4617 ····················· HAVE FOUR COLORADO G.A.'S FOR  HETROSEXUAL HUMAN(s) WANTED. SHARE EXPENSES ON LUXURY 2 BDRM APT. CALL I!! 256-6676 (Except during: Fri. Night, or Sat. & Sun. After­ It's Time For A Change, because my empty beer glass will not mock me and MY HOBBY IS DOUBLE RINGS but I don'tgetlhem. Yesil'Slimeforachange!  
······························································· Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID?  $220 per month plus utilities & deposit Call 232-8959 or 282-1983  now. Gimme. Call the Alien at2539.  SALE--CALL LAURA AT 2764  noon)  PSYCHO CHICKEN PLEASE DIE  
Leede<Ship  Training!  Challenge'  Ad­ I NEED  2 GA TIX  TO  COLORADO.  Cindy Jerdonek is finally legal! Stop by  
venture' SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob  MIAMI,  AIR  FORCE.  AND  SO.  307 PW and wish her a heppy 21st Have  TESS BABY  
Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman ROTC Building. (239-6264)  in  the  CAROLINA, PLUS 7 USC TIX. IF YOU CAN HELP ME, CALL 277-1306 ..  PERSONALS  a great dey Cindy! Love George.  TESS BABY TESS BABY  
Are you  in need of FINANCIAL AID?  WANTED  Need 3 Colorado Tix-GA's  BONFIRE! Dance to the mualc of THE LAWII After the Pep Rally Friday night AT  
Leadership  Training!  Challenge!  Ad­ Call Kathy 3781  CARROLL HALL  0  
venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) TYPING SERVICE 277-6045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE PRQ-TYPE Specializing In student papers, dissertations. law papers resumes 277-5833 8 a.m.to 10 p.m.  ................... SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239­6264) GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559­$50,553/yr. Now hiring. Your aree. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. R-9834. EARN EXTRA INCOME. PICK YOUR  I WON'T WASTE IIY MONEY ON STUPID ADS SAYING IIY BROTHER WALKED BACK FROII VIETNAM. IN­STEAD I'LL SAVE IIY MONEY SO I CAN PAY BIG BUCKS FOR YOUR STU· DENT PENN STATE TICKET OR YOUR 2 GA AIR FORCE TIX. IF YOU HAVE ANY, CALL LARRY (283-2015).  Desparation shows its ugly lace In many ways. No one can escape the times we live in. The answetS are so simple And we all know where to look, But it's easier just to avoid the ques#on. -Ka­!!!! I NEED MIAMI TICKETS 1!!!111 ANNE 2822  HELP! My old Irish uncle from Philly is dying.His last wish is to see a NO foolball game. Will buy 2 tix-any game.3738­Steph ad Thank you St. Jude ...Me HEY, REAL WOllEN, the REAL liEN wtll be at  The countdown continues .. By Baby See ya round. Didn't I say, I wouldn't hold you down... -Diana Roea A lovestruck Romeo,.  
Wordprocessing and typing. 272-8827 TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4062.  HOURS, DAYS AND PLACES TO WORK. EASY PLAN. WRITE JOE-NO, 51625 CHESTNUT ROAD. GRANGER, IN46530.  HEY, I NEED PENN STATE TIX. PLEASE? I'LL BE YOUR FRIEND. CALL KATHY SMC4344  Marc Ramirez ­Madder Than Mad In '64  the SUNGLASSES AT  Singing the streets a serenade, Laying everybodylow, With the love song that he made. Finda a convenient streetlight,  
FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A BELLY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEK! 272­1858 ~ T-shirts, Sweats. Jet'SeyS. etc??? call ALL SPORTS for the bes1buy!!! (312) 281-8886 logoff BOOKS BOUGHT, SOLD,AND TRADEII PrMenl this ad and receive an extra 10/ OFF store books. PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342 EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. ATIENTION ALL FRESHMEN GIRLS! BRIAN BALCONI'S DOG BOOK PICTURE IS JUST ANOTHER EXAM­PLE OF THE MIRACLES OF TRICK  ~ 2 air force G.A.s need 2 air force G.A.s call steve in 419 St. Edward's hall, 2742 NEED XTRA $$ CALL THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453 Desperately ~ ride to Columbus, OH 9/21 around 12:30 I have to be horne to crown this year's homecoming queen! catl3474, THANKS! Marie! Need ride desperately to BLOOMINGTON, I.U. Friday Sept 21 will share $$$$ catl ED 1160. WANTED: FANS!!I TO CHEER THE IRISH FIELD HOCKEY TEAM TO VIC­TORY AGAINST VALPARAISO. TOOAY AT 4:30 AT ALUMNI FIELD. START THE WEEKEND OFF WITH A WIN!!I RIDE OFFERED NY,NJ.CT LEAVE 9/27 RETURN 9130 SHARE DRIVING AND  NEEDED 2 MIAMI GA'S $$$ call Mary 277-8598 Wanted: I need three (3) GA tickets to the Colorado game. If you are interested in selling me some for big bucks, call ROD at 1625. NEEDED 2 sets of 2 or 4 GA's tor MIAMI game. Very important! Will pay well! Call Dan343B .................... ····························· MIAMI TIX-Need 3 Miami tix: GA's or stu­dent-preferably GA's. Call Mike 1644. NEED 1 COLORADO TICKET NICK­3564 BIG $$$ for 1 Miami Student or GA. catl Rich al3200. I NEED MIAMI TICKETS (GA AND/OR STUDENT). PLEASE CALL 4311 FOR SALE: Two tickets to the Colorado game-cat1Janeat4190.  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT T03 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. JUGGLER! JUGGLER! JUGGLER! Bring submissions to 309 O'Shag by Sept 21 why do we kill people who kill people to show that killing people is wrong? HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AN.D TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT. AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND T,IE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE Howard Hall'a Hat and Tie Party Friday Night AI'Mrlcan Laglon P-303 Be there. HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND  NIGHT party at llorrlaMy Hall DANC1NG MUSIC FOOODRINK Friday, Sept. 21 t-? $1.00 Burger King Ia for rMI men. Be sure to call Fos "Madge" this week. Oh. Madge. it's that dishwashing liquid ... "Usterine makes me puke." --Skinlalk ············································· Shall we stay up all night (with our Fol-ger's) trying to remember who has her birthday this Monday??  Says something like, "You andme, babe, how 'bout it?" -Dire Stralta Everyone do the kitchen sink! If you can't fling with your friends Who can you fling with? Your enemies?? ...•....•••••.••••••.........•••.•..•.......••.............•1. LOUDMOUTH, O.K..so you won your rnatch,do you remerriber the score when we played? I guess I still owe you lor the abuse in Ml.,huh? Well, even though you didn't do my socka,Chicago still sounds good. I'll "Drive." catl me. Love, D-Heed  
PHOTOGRAPHY I!!  EXPENSES CALL JAY AT 1209  TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT  Tom  
0 ooooooooooOOOOOOOOOooOOOOooooOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO•OOOOomooo I FOR SALE LOST/FOUND I '-­......­.......­.......­.......­.......­.......­.......­........--'.......  Need 2 GA's for either Air Force or South Carolina. Cai1Johnat4113. COLORADO GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 I NEED 3 COLORADO GA'S BADLY  AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT ANDTIEHATANDTIEHATANDTIE Sophomore Class Sponsored -Victory  To my little Fangomlnt: You're •uch a marahmallowl Love, THE WEENIE  Smile! And have a nice dey! -S PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234­0363. 24 hour holline/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER  
· LOST LOST Woman's gold watch­Timex. Please ij you find it or have found it cai1Kimat4114. Would whoever has my Rutllian texttlool< and Byrns and Stone Economica texttlool< either put them back on the South Dining Hall bookshelves or call Mike at 2492? LOST GOLD ADQ-A-BEAD NECKLACE IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 284­5062 LOST: KEYS, Coal of Arms key ring; Room259; Markx1154 To wh~er accidentally took a while N.D. cheerteading uniform from the Badin laundry Monday morning. I desperately ~ijl call2467. LOST : NAVY BLUE "JANSPORT" BACKPACK WITH 2 IBM FLOPPY DISKS (VERY IMPORTANT) AND A AEROTHER­MOOYNAMICS/PROPULSION TEXTBOOK INSIDE. PLEASE CALL TOMx1664  For ....: Celery green velvet chair, $50.00 catl239-5930 or 291-9644 .......Ai<·c·~-~~i~j;~j;j;i;;;;...,.... 9 -'<a old. Red female. black & tan male. Good tempermenl. Call239-5930 or 291-9644 for sale 11178 malibu station wagon needs body work phone 288 0980. student car ~or sale $2()()-50 Dan AT 272­6457 76 BUICK Skyhawk,V6,manual,$1200 or best offer ,for details 272-5464 after 1 pm TICKETS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$1 Deeperately ~ COLORADO TICKET call JIM 3467 THANKS $$$$ BIG BUXXX $$$$ FOR TWO AIR  PLEASE HELP, CALL 1709 NEED ONE SOUTH CAROLINA GA: MUCHO $$$:STEVE 3059 NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'S AS SOON AS POSSIBLE CALL KATHY AT 2956 TWO COLORADO S'J'UD TIX FOR SALE -call232-4525 or 283-2770. I NEED ONE SOUTH CAROLINA GA. CALLMEAT1457. Will give two Colorado GA tickets in ex­change lortwo Air Force tickets. catl3359 Need One Penn Stale Student Ticket. catl Cheryl x4392 (SMC) Need Miami tickets. Will trade South Carolina. Call John at the cave, 3467. Anybody want a Colorado Uc:Qt? Y..h, ...1, I've got-· So If you want It, give 01' Rocldn' Tom SuUivan a cell at2547. I HAVE 1 COL STUDENT TICKET­WILL TRADE FOR PENN STATE STUD.  Dance-Win or Lose! Saturday nighl9:00 -1 :OOattheACCJus\ $1.00for D.J., food, and fun! Sophomore ANNE LAFLAMME finally turns 18 this Sunday the 23rd. She is no longer )ailbai\1!1 Be sure to wish her a happy birthday. We love you Banana Face!!! Band D Who is YOUR favorite BRUNETIE?? Happy 19th Birthday John Ralph! I'LL DIE 4 YOU I'LLDIE4 YOU I'LL DIE 4 YOU Would you die for me? HAPPY II-DAY BUBIIAI II.P. I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO OR VICINITY THIS WEEKEND. WILL !>HARE EX­PENSES. CALL MATI AT 2937.  Kathleen ­don't forget Hat & Tie TWO MORE YEARS III ...but un#l what? Seductrass, lcan'twiJit Covenant Steve Ross Why are you so shy on the phone? Haven't you ever talked to a horny girl before? The girl in the loft MUM's THE WORD!ACTUALL Y IT'S CORSAGES.BLUE-N-GOLO NO CORSAGES ON SALE IN FRONT OF THE BOOKSTORE SATURDAY!Make somebody smile.Proceeds to ND-SMC Right to Ute. GO IRISH ... BEAT VALPO!!! FUN WOW!!!  Tom: He's the Dendn' llan For more info, call1175. Attention N.D. F.-.h and all other interested folks, Please tum to Page 22 of the DogbOok and see what people have to say about Kathleen Chrlatle "An incredible gel... Beauty, briJina, style; Who could want anything else?!" -Hartalher "The epitome of what the classic ND/SMC Freshman should be... " -Fr. Haeburgh "In Kathleen Chrlatle we have truly found that specie/ something that this campus has been lacking ... " -An expert on NO Now why don't you find out what you've bean missing in your t:fe and give Kathleen Chrtatla a call right now at284­5457. OSH! Excuee me? All Chieftains want to wish you a Happy Birthday! Have a greet PARDOOSKI, ACE! Join us for SUDS and SUDS! Love, Betty Crocker and Julia  
loet: white NO jacket at Erakin CC Fri nile. Haa ID in pocket. Please call Caroline -1822.1 ~my stuff!! LOST: Friday lunch S. dining hall, blue LL  FORCE G.A. TIX CALL JOHN 283-1306 I NEED MIAMI GA'S. CALL BRIAN 3677. NEED 3 8TUD5NT OR G.A. TICKETS TO THE COLORADO GAllE. FOR VIBmNG ALUIIS. CALL OSCAR AT  OR G.A. TICKET. WILL SELL IF NO TRADE AVAILABLE 277·7570 MIAMI TIX-I NEED THREE STUD OR ·GA. DESPERATE-MONEY IS NO OB­JECT!! DAVE X4057  DELICIOUS SANDWICHES DELIVERED MQ-TH 8pm-11pm FA-SA 8pm-1am CALL THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE 272-4453  IRISH FIELD HOCKEY .. GET PSYCHED!!! IRISH FIELD HOCKEY FIRST HOME VICTORY TODAY AT 4:30 AT ALUMNI FIELD BE THERE!!!  Child P.S. Meet Chet at CORBY'S I RULES OF ST. ED'S FIRST MAIN TRAIN: 1. NO FLAMING PINK SHEETS. 2. LAX IS MAX. 3. SHEEP ALWAYS WELCOME. 4. MUST WEAR FOOD  
Bean bKI<peck. Inside was AL ata1a books, 2 notebooka, Tl calculator. Call  277-3111151F YOU HAVE ANY TICKETS TO SELL.  Needed 3 Colorado GA's. Call Kevin at 287-6262.  JULIE (BOO), Happy 20th! A SMC  IRISH FIELD HOCKEY!!!  HOME FROM LEE'S. 5. WIVES NEED­-UP THEIR -. BY THE WAY,  
John 3476/144 Morrissey.  PARENTS DON'T CARE HOW BAD WE  NEED 2 OR 4 MIAMI GA'S, PLEASE  '1amily" woman -now? (We don't ignore birthdays!) -Joe and Mike  IRISH FIELD HOCKEY!!!  WHAT'S YOUR NAME? WHO'S YOUR DADDY? SEE YOU AT MACRI'S. P.  
FOUND: Tor1oiee shell gtaaaes in pink  ARE, NEED 2 COLORADO TIX. CHRIS  CALL TIMOAT287-8264  GALORE  
P-'e VIsion Center caee. Found at  1072  CINDY LOU, Happy 21st to an all a round  
Madeleva shuttle 81op, Sept. 20. C811284­ NEED 1ST. TICKET FOR COL. GAllE.  great friend! -From 3 of your "biggest"  GO FIGHT SCORE WIN IRISH!!I IRISH  T e amo Alejandro.  
5136.  NEED 4 MIAMI GA'S!!! CaH Mike 277­ CALL Tlll1045.  buddies. HINT: The bee on "L"-skis har­ FIELD HOCKEY ... 1 !!!  
3918$$  moniously drank wine-burgandy!  The Twins turn 21!!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY  
WOULD  THE  PERSON  WHO  Need 4 Colorado Tix Mary 3445  Dear SCS, Happy Birthday! Hope year 20  Theresa & Julie! Love, Nancy & Sherri  
REMOVED  MY  INTERMEDIATE  AC­ Help!! My folks never saw Notre Dame,  Having C81 troubles?  is the best yet! Much love, DMD  
COUNTING AND FINANCIAL INSTITU­ but now Notre Dame is corning to my par­ FOR SALE: 3 GA's tor COLORADO. Call  CaiiiiR. GOOOWRENCHIIII  DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO MIZ­ 
TION MANAGEMENT BOOKS FROM  ents. But they don't have tickets to the  Chuck at 1837  Greeting Dr. Bohm Jr .. Have a Happy B­ ZOU: Call Kim4174  
THE SOUTH DINING HALL PLEASE  Missouri game. That's where you come  ...................................  Day, for the Whole day. Drink from \he  
PUT THEM BACK OR IF FOUND CALL  in. Sell me your pair of Missouri tickets. I  Need 2 GA Air Force TIX. Call Martha at  SENIORS  Goblet and remember: Descartes is a  don pEPPY pilger bob kEmPer have a  
GEOFF AT 3667 FOUND PLEASE CALL  don't have alol but, whatever I have will be  264-5120  If you want to go to NEW ORLEANS for  mechanist, life is a flux, and those are  hEPPYday!  
GEOFF AT 3667.  yours, If you sell me your Missouri tix.  the Senior Class Trip, BUT Have NOT  FACTS. Love, Heraclitus, the Cow P.S. Is  
CALL BARB AT284-4418. Thanks.  I need 7 Miami Tickets. If you can help.  Paid your Deposit. Well, PLEAZ catl Bill  it a magnetic or electric flux?  Stephanie, Heether. Becky, and Mary:  
please call Uza 5463 (SMC).  at288-4637 if you want my Deposit!!  Have fun this weekend! You know I will!  
FOR RENT  HELPIIEII I need 3 GA's and 2 student tix for the Color.do game and I need them now! My  .......................................................... Marl< Woracheh is desperate for a date with Bo Derak, (he hasn't been the same  I NEED A COLORADO G.A. Call Dave at 277-3953.  lsn'tthis morbid joke over YET! Need a ride to Missouri for the foolbell  MISS YOU II! Love, Marie! . ARE YOU FUNNY? THE OBSERVER  
parents are flying out for the game and will  since Bolero) but if he can't gel one, he'll  game Sept29. Call MARY 284-4387.  NEEDS  YOU!!  DESPARATELY!!  
disown me if I don't get them. Help out a  sellle for 4 G.A.s to the South Carolina  Mr. Jeff: Did you remember the wine?  ··························  PSYCHO  CHICKEN  STINKS  AND  
SONY'S BEST TAPE. UCX-S $3.50ea  good cause and call Joe at3296.  game. Call283-2045 if you have tickets or  Juliet  Jeff Chocolate Chip cookies are coming!  BELONGS BACK IN THE BARN WITH  
$30/103681  knowBo.  The ball is in your court ..  THE REST OF THE MANURE!  

----------------------~ ---~ ~-~-­
The Observer Friday, September 21, 1984 -page 19 
Regular season over 
Notre Dame­Tennis team sweeps Wheaton, 9-0 

By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's 
Yesterday afternoon the Notre Dame women's tennis team wound up· the regular-season portion of Its
sports weekend 
TODAY 
volleyball vs. DePaul 8p.m. ACC arena 
soccer vs. Illinois 8p.m. Cartier Field 
field hockey vs. Valparaiso 4:30p.m. Alumni Field 
TOMORROW 
football vs. Colorado 
1:30 p.m. Notre Dame Stadium 
baseball vs. NO Alumni 9:30a.m. Jake Kline Field 
SUNDAY 
baseball vs. St. Francis (2) 1 p.m. Jake Kline Field 
coach Sharon Petro. "We still need a "We're still going to work on lot ofwork with that (doubles)." some different combinations and 
Despite a need for some improve­we'll see what we can come up ment, the Irish were still able to take with," says Petro. "It's hard to beag­six straight sets and three straight gressive when you're not that aware matches from Wheaton in doubles of what your partner's doing, and play. that's our problem right now. 
Senior co-captain Laura Lee and "We've got to soon decide who's Panther began the doubles action by going to be working with who so taking Wheaton's team of Rasmus­that they can get to know each other sen and Werner, 6-1, 6-0. Colligan and learn to communicate and play and senior co-captain Usa LaFratta some aggressive doubles." won number-two doubles, 6-3, 6-0 Following their week off, the Irish from Edwards and Johnston. Com­will travel to Evanston, Ill., where pleting the sweep of Wheaton were they will compete in the Northwes­senior Cathy Schnell and Dasso, who tern Invitational. downed McCalla and Van.denBrock, "It's going to be interesting (at 6-3,6-0, at the number-three spot. Northwestern) and we'll get soine 
Realizing the need to improve on good competition up there," Petro the aggressiveness of the Irish says, "and I'm definitely looking doubles play, Petro's squad will toward that." utilize a week off in preparation for But first, the Irish women face a the upcoming fall tournaments. tough week ofpractice. 
ND Rugby Club starts season with 18-14 win 


Lunch from CAMBODIA 
A typical Cambodian meal consisting of: Egg Rolls BBQ Beef-on-a-Stick Iced Tea or Coffee Donation $3.00 
Served before the football game, Sept. 22 
11:00 • 1:00 at the Center for Social Concerns 

----------------------------· Junior Parents' Weekend
SAVE$$$ 
Chairman Applications 
Available September 18-21st
2.5 cubic Dormitory Reg rig. 
in the Student Activities $45°0 for School Year 
Office. Applications due
Limited Quantities Friday, September 21. Interviews will be held on
BURNS RENT·ALLs INC. 
332 W. Mishawaka Ave. Tuesday, September 25th. Mishawaka 
259-2833 Apply now! 
------------------~-------· 
fall schedule by taking nine straight from Wheaton at the Courtney.Ten­nis Center. The Irish now have tour­naments on three successive weekends, beginning next weekend, to close out the season. 
In singles action, the Irish lost only four games overall in taking 12 straight sets and all six matches. 
Leading the way for Notre Dame was junior first-stringer Susie Pan­ther, who had no trouble what­soever in downing Wheaton's Kim Rasmussen, 6-0, 6-0. Second for the Irish was junior Mary Colligan, who came away with a sound 6-0, 6-2 win over Kate Werner ofWheaton. Soph­omore JoAnne Biafore continued the Irish onslaught with a solid 6-1, 6-0 trouncing ofKathy McCalla. 
Rounding out the sweep of the singles matches was junior transfer student Izzy O'Brien, who downed Kathy VandenBrock of Wheaton, 6­0, 6-0; freshman Michelle Dasso con­tinued to play well as she easily took Monica Edwards, 6-0, 6-0; and, in her first start of the year, Tammy Schmidt knocked off Wheaton's Beth Johnson, 6-1, 6-0. 
"Singles are looking okay, but there still are a few problems with doubles," says Notre Dame head 
ByJOANIE GffiLIN 
Sports Writer 
The fall season for the Notre Dame Rugby Club started last Satur­day with a victory over the South Bend Rugby Club, 18-14. A strong Irish "A" squad, the defending In­diana collegiate champion, came 
NOTRE DAME 
MINORITY STUDENT RESUME BOOK 
.All Minority Students Encouraged to Participate 
For Info, Contact: Andrea-283-3880 OR David-283-1626 
back after a spring suspension ready to play hard when it hit the field to take on South Bend. 
Just minutes into the game, second-row serum Bill Hough and hooker John Lally, two of the team's talented veterans, were injured and missed the remainder of the match. South Bend then scored a try, but missed its conversion kick, tallying the first four points of the game. 
Only minutes later, Irish player Mike Carroll scored a fantastic try, making the score an even 4-4. Ful­lback Steve Schneider then put Notre Dame ahead, 6-4, by making a great conversion. 
Tom Comer scored the second Irish try on a super run, for another four points, and, once again, Schneider scored a conversion for a score of 12-4. 
In second-half play, South Bend came back to score a try and a con­version, making the score 12-10. Terry Sigler attacked with an Irish try, followed by another Schneider conversion,bringing the score to 18­10. 
Although the South Bend squad 
scored again, it couldn't conquer the 
tough Irish "A" squad, and Notre 
Damewon, 18-14. 
Ed Hughes, in his first game on the 
squad, had a good performance. 
Other Irish players who played an 
excellent game were serum-halfJoe 
Whalen, wing John Goebelbecker, 
and prop Dave Crouch. 
Of this year's squad, Notre Dame Rugby Club President Steve Schneider says, "We have a lot of new players who have really added depth to the team so far and we ex­pect great things from them." 
In a closely fought battle, Notre Dame's "B" squad lost to the South Bend team, 4-3. Tom. Reidy made a beautiful 40-meter kick for the Irish to start offthe game on a strong nl;_)te. 
But, despite the fine efforts of for­ward Brad Mollett, backs Mark Weingartner and Paul Perona, and forward Tim Branigan, the Irish lost after South Bend scored a try, leaving the final score at 4-3. 
Notre Dame's team finished off the day with a match-up of Its "C" and "D" squads for a scrimmage. 
Schneider feels that the team is off to a good start and should have a good season. 
"We had a good game, especially since we missed the whole spring season," Schneider says, "and every­one is ready to work h~d and to do well." 
The next action for the Irish squad will be on September 29·30 at the Indiana Union Tournament in Louis­ville, Ky. The next scheduled home game is Oct. 6 against the Notre Dame Rugby Alumni on Stepan Field. 

---------------~­
The Observer Friday, September 21, 1984 -page 20 
More accessible to students 
Briefs
NVA moves to new spot in ACC 

By MARKS. PANKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
Ifthe Notre Dame non-varsity ath­letic program was a box of laundry detergent, this year it would be labeled, "new and improved." Sport­Ing a new issue room, a new sign-up location, and new offices, NVA has become more accessible to stu­dents. To find their new location, a student must now only go through 
Preview 
continuedfrom page 24 
ers Tom Schl~eter and Tom Taylor, and predicts, "You can look for Zahm in the playoffs this year." 
The Parseghian Division appears to loaded with talented and hungry teams. Dillon is going to have its hands full in defending the interhall crown. 
Dillon coach Charlie Rice sights the loss, due to injury, ofteam leader Ken Munro and the fact that only seven players return from last year as reasons for anxiety over Dillon's attempt to repeat its 7-0 record. Nevertheless, Dillon had 45 players try out and its practices have been marked by enthusiasm. 
One of the teams ready to chal­lenge Dillon is Grace. The two squads meet at 1 p.m., as Grace looks to improve on its 0-3-2 record oflast year. Tailback Ed Borneman and de­fensive captain Chuck Ruwart, along with several freshmen, give Grace coachJohn Olson reasons to be opti­mistic. 
However, Dillon's most powerful foe looks to be Flanner. Flanner, whose only two defeats last year came at the hands of Dillon by scores of 3-0 and 10-0, returns an even stronger team this year. 
Coach Larry Diedrick points out that much of the Flanner team is ex­perienced .juniors and seniors. Lou D'Agostino and brothers Joe and Tim Arnold are key players in Flan­ner's quest for the interhall title. 
Squaring off against Flanner Sun­day at 4 p.m. is Keenan. Coach Kevin Keenan says his squad consists mostly offreshmen and sophomores after losing several players to Off­Campus. Keenan praises quarter­back Jim Grow and defensive back Jamie Burke as team leaders. 
In the third game, Morrissey looks to be competitive this year after a couple ofdown years, as it faces Off­Campus at 3 p.m. 
The playoffs will be run the same as last year, with the top two squads from each division participating in post-season play. Teams are credited with two points for a win, one point for a tie and zero for a loss. 
At the end of the regular season, the teams will be seeded one through six. The seeds will be deter­mined by winning percentage. Even though this playoff system allows several teams to reach post-season play, some coaches have expressed 
disappointment  with  the  seeding  
procedure.  
Diedrick felt  that  last  year  his  

squad and Dillon had the two best teams, yet, because of their seeds, they met in the semifinals instead of the finals. And since teams in differ­ent divisions do not face common opponents, team records are not al-
Weare wtnrung. 
AMERICAN 
WCANCER 
~SOCIETY® 
Gate 1 of the Athletic and Convoca­tion Center and immediately take a right turn upon entering. 
NVA moved to Its new location so students going to the ACC's gym­nasium, courts, or track would walk directly by its offices. 
"We requested a much better area in terms of traffic," says Dr. Tom Kelly, director of f'N.A. "Now the students won't have to go out of their way to reach us." 
ways accurate indicators of relative strength. 
As the season prepares to open, many coaches again tab Dillon as the team to beat. Yet, as those who fol­low men's interhall football know, any team could pull off an upset with a few big plays. 
While Howard and Stanford look to return to the finals, Flanner ap­pears to be a strong candidate to wrestle the crown from Dilton. But, while winning is important to these collections of ex-high school stars and curious first-time players, nobody can deny that the real moti­vation behind these teams is a love for the game offootball. 

,-----
·----,
/ ',iI San~:'ich $1s9 iI 
: Fries and Pepsi : 
1 Your choice of single Chopped 1 
Steak or Fish Sandwich with french II fries and pepsi-cola. No carryouts, I cannot be used with other dis-I 
Valid thru Sept. 30, 1984 counts. Tax not included. At partie· I \ U.S. 31 N (Next to No. Village Mall) ipating Steakhouses. Coupon , ' c 1982 PONDEROSA. INC . good for any party •lze_ , 
~-------------------J 
TYPING 
.._Term Papers 
*Resumes •Letters 
•Manuscripts 
•Word Processing 
CaD Chris At: 
234-8997 

50% OFF ALL ITEMS IN THE STORE 
*EXCEPT NEW GOODS 
Sunday, Sept. 23 12-6 p.m. ONLY! 
GOODWILL PLAZA EDDY ST. ACROSS FROM NICKlES 
Come and Spend the Day! Neighborhood Fall Festival Dunk Tank, Food & Beer Booths Enjoy Yourself!! 

The move also is advantageous to the coaches and secretaries next to the old NVA location. Traffic near their offices will be drastically cut as the normal 75-100 students trying to beat sign-up deadlines will ,no longer have to pass by them. 
The change in location benefits Non-Varsity Athletics in two ways. Not only does it give the rapidly­growing NVA more space, but, as Dr. Kelly puts it, "(The move) really centralizes our operation... It makes us more effective and efficient." 
Dr. Kelly is pleased with the new 
NVA offices. 
"It shows the University's com­mitment to our program, which is a commitment to the general student body," he said. Beaming proudly, Dr. Kelly added, "It was a first-class job." 
The Notre Dame non-varsity pro­gram, considered by many to be the best in the country, encompasses in­terhall sports, recreational services, and club sports. Their office hours are 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday thru Thursday, and 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Fridays. Students needing to contact the Non-Varsity Athletic office can call their 24-hour telephone answer­ing service at 239-6100. 
continuedjrompage 18 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Monday through Friday until 4 p.m. at Tbe Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs must be written clearly.-Tbe Observer 
An ultimate frisbee club is now being formed~ The schedule will include weekend fall practices and spring games against Purdue, Ohio State, Michigan, and others. If interested, call Lance or Gerry at 1 588. -Tbe Observer 
The Domer Six-and three-mile runs will be held Sep­tember 29, and the deadline for entries has been extended through today. Finishers of the six-mile run will be awarded T-shirts, and three-mile finishers will get sun visors. Trophies will be awarded to the top finishers in both races. The entryfee is S3 for the six-mile run and S2 for the three-mile run. -Tbe Observer 
Joe Plane, Notre Dame track coach, has been named the Midwest regional chairman for United States Olympic Development in the area of track and field. Piane will be helping to coordinate plans to encourage and develop Olympic prospects until the 1988 games in Seoul, Korea. -Tbe Observer 

A·DRAMATIC NEW CONCEPT IN SUN TANNING! 
Preserve your tan with our NEW tanning bed 
TAN-HAWA""N 
sun tonnr'Q solm 
2n-1026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 
Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 
The Observer Friday, September 21, 1984 -page 21 
Baseball Standings 
NATlONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Eut Elat 
w L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB Ch1cago 90 62 .592 -X-Detroit 98 54 .645 N-Yorll 83 70 .542 7.5 Toronto 85 68 .556 13.5 
Philadelphia 8t 72 .529 9.5 NewYork 82 69 .543 15.5 St. Louie 80 72 .526 10 Baltimore 81 70 .536 16.5 Montreal 74 n .490 15.5 Boaton 80 72 .526 18 Pitllllurgh 68 85 .444 22.5 Cleveland 69 84 .451 29.5 
Milwaukee 62 90 .408 36 
W•t WMI 
X-San Diego 86 68 .566 -KanaaaCity 78 74 .513 Atlanta 76 n .497 10.5 California n 74 .510 .5 
Houaton 76 n .497 10.5 Minneaota n 75 .507 1 loiAngelel 75 78 .490 11.5 Oakland 71 82 .464 7.5 Cincinnati 64 89 .418 22.5 Chicago 70 82 .461 8 SanFrai'Ciaco 62 90 408 24 Seat1te 69 84 .451 9.5 X-clinched dlvlalon Tex81 65 86 .430 12.5 IIIIa X-clinched dlvflllon 
IIIIa 
Y•tarday'a RMulta Y•t-y'a RMulta Pitllllurgh 7. Chicago 6 Minneaol8 5, Chicago4, 13 inninge San Diego 5, San Franciaco 4 Toronto 6, Milwaukee 4 Loa Angelea 6, Houaton 2 Baltimore 15, BOlton 1 Atlanta 9. Clndnnati 3 California 2, Kaneae City 0 St. Louie 3. Montreal2 

Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. ·· Mike Witt shut out Kansas City on three hits and Brian Downing cracked his 21st home run of the season last night as the California Angels trimmed the Royals' American League West lead to one-halfgame with a 2-0 victory. 
The game was played under a double protest, with the each manager claiming a batter on the op­posing team was using an illegal bat. 
California Manager John McNamara lodged his protest in the top of the second inning, claiming that the Royals' Jorge Orta had used an altered bat. Then, in the bottom of the third, Kansas City Manager Dick Howser countered by claiming that the Angels' Juan Beniquez was using a doctored bat. 
The bats in question were locked up to be examined later, and a report will be made to the AL office. 
Witt, 14-1 1, was perfect through the first four innings, but Orta sin­gled to lead off the fifth, and with one out Steve Balboni singled. 
Witt struck out seven and walked none. 
The victory gave the second-place Angels a split with the Royals in the four-game series at Anaheim Stadium. The clubs play each other four more times next week in Kansas City. The Minnesota Twins are within close striking of the lead, just a game back of the Royals in third place, following a 5-4 victory over Chicago yesterday afternoon. 
The loss last night went to Mark Gubicza, 10-13. 
Twins 5, White Sox 4 
MINNEAPOliS Minnesota's Tom Brunansky scored the winning run in the 13th inning when Chicago reliever Bert Roberge threw a wild pitch, giving the Twins a 5-4 victory yesterday. 
The victory moved the Twins within one game of Kansas City in the American League West. 
Ralph A. Casperson Books 
THOUSANDS OF USED BOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS -WE BUY USED BOOKS­
HOURS: Wed., Sat. & Sun. 9 a.m.-7 p.m. or by appointment 
lSOS Nlle•S.cll•-• Rd, Nil.. 683-2888 
Padres clinch NL West 
Angels, Twins get closer to Royals 
CORKTOWNE LIQUORS
(Under New Management) 
Your FootbaiJ Weekend 
PARTY HEADQUARTERS Gobel 

24 loose cans 
Glenntore Vodka 

1 liter 
Miller Beer 

24loose 
CHECK AND COMPARE OUR EVERYDAY LOW PRICES!! 
In the 13th, Brunansky walked, took second on Gary Gaetti's sacrifice bunt, moved to third on catcher Joel Skinner's passed ball and scored on the wild pitch. 
Ron Davis, 7-9, allowed two hits in 
two  innings of relief for  the win.  
Roberge,  3-3,  took  the  loss  for  
Chicago.  

Starters Frank Viola of the Twins and Tom Seaver of Chicago each pitched 10 innings but left with the score tied 4-4. 
Carlton Fisk's pinch-hit solo homer olfViola tied the game, 4-4, in the eighth. 
With the scored tied 3-3 in the sixth, Gaetti and Tim Teufel singled off Seaver. After Seaver struck out Tim Laudner, Kirby Puckett hit his second RBI-single of the game to make it4-3. 
Both teams turned lead-off walks into first-inning runs. 
The Twins moved ahead 2-1 in the third when Laudner doubled, went to third on Puckett's ground out and scored on Ron Washington's sacrifice fly. 
But Baines tripled in the fourth and and scored on Viola's second wild pitch, tying it at 2-2. 
After hitting his second double, Laudner scored on Puckett's single to give the Twins a 3-2 edge after five innings. But Chicago tied the game for the third time in the sixth on Ron Kittle's 31st home run. 
Padres 5, Giants 4 
SAN DIEGO --The San Diego Padres clinched the National League Western Division title yesterday af­ternoon, riding Tim Lollar's pitching and three-run homer to a 5-4 victory over the San Francisco Giants. 
Lollar homered off loser Mike Krukow, 10-12, to cap a second­inning rally in which the Padres scored all their runs. Graig Nettles led off with a single, Kevin McReynolds walked and Carmello Martinez was hit by a pitch to load the bases. Garry Templeton then drilled a two-run single before Lol­lar's blast. 
Lollar, 11-12, surrendered an RBI single to Manny Trillo and a sacrifice fly to Jeff Leonard in the third and a solo homer by John Rabb in the fourth. 
He allowed eight hits, walked four and struck out six before being lifted in the sixth. Greg Harris and Dave Draveck}· combined to finish the game. 
In the ninth, Chili Davis drove in the Giants' final run with a single off Dravecky. 
Dodgers 6, Astros 2 
HOUSTON ·-Rookie Orel Her­shiser allowed eight hits as the Los Angeles Dodgers defeated the Hous­ton Astros, 6-2, last night, eliminat­ing the Astros and giving the 
National League Western Division 
title to the San Diego Padres. 
Hershiser, 10-8, struck out five 
and didn't allow a walk in pitching 
his seventh complete game of the 
season. 
Nolan Ryan, 12-I 1, lasted only I 
1/3 innings before leaving with a 
strained left hamstring. 
The Dodgers took a 1-0 lead in the second after Pedro Guerrero led off with a single and went to second on first baseman Glenn Davis' fielding error on Greg Brock's grounder. One out later, Terry Whitfield walked to load the bases and Guer­rero scored on German Rivera's fielder's choice grounder against reliever Julio Solano. 
The Dodgers added a run in the third when Dave Anderson led off with a double and scored on Ken Landreaux's single. 
The Astros scored in the sixth on a bunt single by Craig Reynolds, an in­field out and Terry Puhl's RBI single. 
The Dodgers made it 6-1 in the eighth on Anderson's sacrifice fly off Frank DiPino, Greg Brock's RBI single and Candy Maldonado's two­run single. 
Pirates 7, Cubs 6 
CHICAGO Johnny Ray's sacrifice fly broke a 6-6 tie in the eighth and Jim Morrison collected two RBI's yesterday as the Pit­tsburgh Pirates edged the Chicago Cubs, 7-6. 
The loss kept the Cubs' magic number to clinch the National League East at three. 
The Pirates entered the eighth down 6-5 but loaded the bases against loser Lee Smith, 9-7, on a walk to pinch hitter Mitchell Page, a single by Joe Orsulak and a walk to Marvell Wynne. Lee Lacy tied It with a grounder and Ray hit a sacrifice fly to score Orsulak. 
Kent Tekulve, 3-9, the fourth Pirate pitcher, worked two-thirds of an inning for the victory. John Can­delaria came on in the eighth and finished up for his first save. 
The Cubs broke a 2-2 tie in the fifth, chasing starter Jose DeLeon. Bob Dernier singled and took second on Ryne Sandberg's groun­dout. Dernier stole third as Gary Matthews walked, scoring on Dur­ham's sacrifice fly. Keith Moreland singled in Matthews, who had stolen second, and Ron Cey doubled home Moreland. Mike Bielecki relieved and allowedJody Davis' RBI single. 
Pittsburgh made it 6-4 in the sixth on Dale Berra's RBI single and pinch­hitter Lee Mazzllli's RBI groundout. Morrison's RBI single in the seventh off Smith, who relieved Dick Ruth­ven, made It 6-5. 

Graduate Study In 
Public Policy 

The LBJ School of Public Affairs at The University of Texas at Austin emphasizes public policy analysis, inter­disciplinary research and summer internships in govern­ment agencies in its graduate programs: 
Master's Degree in Public Affairs Joint Degrees Program with the UT Law School Joint Degrees Program with the UT College of En­gineering Joint Degrees Program with the UTGraduate School of Business 
Financial aid and fellowships are available based on merit or need. 
MEET WITH A I~EPRESENTA TJVE AT 
St. Mary's University Friday, Sept. 28, 1984 Please call Placement Services Office for an appointment 


EDISON  
ACC  
Join your Classmates  
Peter'83, Joseph '84,  
Michael '85 Agostino  >0 0  
w  
602 S. Walnut  


The Observer Friday, September 21, 1984-page 22 
Reinhardt still critical 
Colorado battles rash of injuries 
Assoclated Press 
BOULDER, Colo.--The University of Colorado football team, emotion­ally spent by the severe head injury suffered by tight end Ed Reinhardt, also must battle a rash ofinjuries as it prepares for tomorrow's game here at Notre Dame. 
Reinhardt, who collapsed on the sidelines at last Saturday's game at Oregon, underwent surgery to remove a blood clot from his brain. He remained in a coma and in criti­cal condition yesterday at Sacred Heart General Hospital in Eugene, Ore. 
CU coach Bill McCartney, who 
Padres clinch division for first time in history
Assoclated Press 
SAN DIEGO --The San Diego Padres, perennial also-rans ofthe Na­tional League West for 15 years, won their first-ever divisional title in a walk. 
They did it with only one player hitting above .300 and only one starting pitcher whose earned run average was below 3.00. One Padre stole more than 30 bases; two hit more than 15 home runs. 
They did it with veterans Steve Garvey and Graig Nettles hitting nearly 30 points below their career averages for the majority of the 
NDRowing Club plans big weekend 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club has a big weekend planned for many. The club will be rowing with a group ofalumni tomorrow morning at 11:00. The races will take place at the boathouse lo­cated at the south end of Notre Dame Ave. 
Prior to the races, three boats donated by alumni will be chris­tened. This ceremony will begin at 10 a.m. 
The weekend concludes with a dedication ·Mass Sunday at 10 
a.m. in Holy Cross Hall. The boat­house, which was new last year, wiJI be named after Jim Feider, a 1983 graduate and president of the rowing club two years ago, who was later killed. 
Anyone with questions regard­ing the weekend's activities should call club president Paul Sherman at 283-4115. 
Weekend 
continuedfrom page 24 
be a key factor in terms of Notre Dame's success. 
"Ifwe can play tough defense and keep them out of the scoring column early, the better chance we'll have," says Grace. "In the second half, if it's 0-0 or 1-1, our boys will grow in confidence as In­diana's players get down on them­selves." 
A victory against Indiana could 
vault the Irish into the national 
rankings, and greatly strengthen the 
reputation of their program. 
However, the Indiana game is not until Sunday, and the Illini are . already on their way to town. In or­der for a successful weekend, the Irish must begin with a victory tonight. Only then can they start thinking about defeating Indiana and turning this into the most successful weekend in Notre Dame soccer his­tory. 
stayed at Reinhardt's side for two days in the hospital, returned to Boulder on Monday to "get back to the task at hand. Ed is very much in our hearts and our minds, but we're not talking about it. We're just taking care ofbusiness. We have great faith he will recover, and that buoys our 
spirits. I think we'll rebound and ac­cept the challenge of playing Notre Dame." 
Quarterback Steve Vogel said the team has had a "business-like atti­tude in practice," but added, "some of the enthusiasm for Notre Dame has been displaced by the grief for Ed." 
season, and Terry Kennedy 50 points below his. 
And they led the division every day after the All-Star break, by eight to 10 games most ofthat time. 
It is already the finest season in the 16-year history of the club, which had never before finished even in the upper half of the divi­sion. 
"In the truest sense, I think, this can be considered a team effort," says Garvey, the 35-year-old first baseman who witnessed four such pennant-winning efforts as a Los An­geles DodJ~;er. 
···············································:
• • : Saint Andrew Greek Orthodox Church : : Benevolent Fund : 
: "Special Leukemia Event" :
IVAN LINES. I• • 
•
•
•
•
•
: Now leaves hourly from the Main Circle : at : 5:00p.m. Fridays : and : 4:00p.m. on Saturdays
•; making stops around University Park Mall, ; Town & Country Mall ; and now an additional stop at ; North Village Mall & Forum Theatres 
•
; soe ROUND TRIP
•
•
• 

0:: 
w
UNO Q. 
z 
:::l
-, 
The Best in Prime Rib,Steaks, Seafood 
OPEN Mon-Thurs 11 a.m-2 p.m. Fri 11 a.m. -10 p.m. Sat 5-10 p.m. 
602 S. Walnut (219) 232-2494 
The Buffs -already reeling from an 0-2 start and with such stalwarts as Notre Dame, UCLA, Missouri, Ne­braska, Oklahoma and Oklahoma State upcoming -have had additional problems in practice because of a lack ofbodies at certain positions. 
Besides Reinhardt, defensive back Solomon Wilcots has been lost for the season following shoulder sur­gery. Linebacker Barry Remington will miss this week's game with a pinched nerve in his neck, and cen­ter Eric Coyle is out for three to five weeks with a sprained right knee. 
Reserve offensive tackle Steve Markstrom will play this week, but is scheduled to undergo surgery next week for bone spurs in both ankles, which will sideline him for the remainder of the season. Tailback Lee Rouson, with a groin pull, and linebacker Alan Chrite, with a hip pointer, are listed as questionable for the Notre Dame game. Both par­ticipated in light workouts on Wed­nesday. 
Linebacker Dan McMillen and defensive back Mickey Pruitt, who had been considered doubtful for the Notre Dame game with knee and foot injuries, respectively, will play. 
"We're pretty banged up," said McCartney. "It may take a perfect game for us to win. We're really going into the land of the giants. Notre Dame is the biggest, strongest football team I've ever seen. They have awesome personnel; they're as talented as any team in the country." 
ISAA Mideast Region soccer poll I. Indiana 6-0 70 2. Akron 3·1·2 61 3. Cleveland State 4-1 ~1 4. Evansville 4-1 48 5. Bowling Green 3-3 44 6. Wisconsin-Green Bay 3-4 30 7. Notre Dame 5-0-1 18 8. Marquette 5-l 14 9. Wisconsin-Milwaukee 3·2 13 10. Mtcbtgan State 1·0-1 12  
Baseball at home The Notre Dame baseball team returns to Jake Kline Field this weekend for three games. Saturday, the Irish play an alumni game featuring Frank Karpen, a former player for the New York Mets, and Jim Hannan, also a major leaguer for the Washington Senators. And on Sunday, the Irish put their 2-1-1 record on the line in a doubleheader against St. Francis, with the first game getting under­way at 1 p.m. With no set pitching rotation, Notre Dame coach Larry Gallo says, "I'm not sure yet who will start, but I intend to look at a lot of pitchers during the doubleheader, especially John Bower, who might pitch and play first base because he was hurt last weekend. I also intend to play a lot of players because I'm still looking at all thirty-five." On last weekend's season-opening four games, Gallo said, "We hit the ball very well last week and I can only be hopeful that it will continue. I know our defense can be more consistent and that's what I'll be watching this weekend." For a little pre-football excitement on Saturday, the alumni game might be worth a look.  

•
• 
:• 
: : : :
•
; : ; ;
•
•
;
•
•
•
• 
: For Pete Lampos : 
: Mini Festival : i Saturday Sept. 22 -i ! 11 AM to 11 PM ! 
; NO ADMISSION CHARGE ; ; *Gyros Sandwiches *Beer & Wine ; ; *Greek Pastry *Soft Drinks ; 
; And Live Music : 
• bythe • 
: MiniTones : 
; Special Attraction ; ; 1stAnnual Benevolent Auction : : 8PMto9PM ; 
; FREE PARKING 52455 N. IRONWOOD DR. ; : South Bend • 
PROFESSIONAL 
BUSINESS MANAGERS 
U. S. Navy Supply Corps has openings in training pr.ograms offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified applicants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to immediate managerial positions in one of the following areas: 
* 
Systems inventory management

* 
Acquisition Contracting

* 
Computer Systems

* 
Financial Management 


Starting salary $17,000 with benefits-rapid advance­
ment. Qualifications: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred. U.S. citizenship a must. Age limit 29. Call Navy Toll Free 
1·800-382·9782 
Navy representative on campus Oct. 10 & 11 at the Placement Office 
~-­
-
~~~C3L~-----------------------------------------Fr_i_da•y~,_s.ep~t_e_m_b_e_r_2_1~,-1_9_8_4__~P-a~g-e_2~3 
Bloom County 

•. flO I THINK 711€5£ fH0f{J5
Y£5. tiii/S. WNfiWIST..l'~ 56 
PAMIJ6e TH£ 'I!M£1?/CIIN
711£ f'/CTVI?t5... YffU;OT 1HEM 
1?/bHT HERE. III1VE l<rXi AN(J 111£ 
V£$T/6/AL V/1?&/N SAINT" 
M'r7H SVRROIJNPIN& fl't&eANT
Omet{ Pllb€ANT 


Psychochicken Octavio 



,AI>J'D NOW 1 0~ To \.__ THE. q.AME. ! 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 30 Of greater 53 State 1 Large area In height policeman Air. 31 Trireme 54 Kind of scout 7 Vernon of a equipment 55 Smart ., dancing team 32 "-Mable" 56 Commences 13 Threefold 33 Very nearly 
.
14 Cupidity 36 Course of study 16 Joint 39 Distributed knowledge 40 Catches the 17 Teacher's aide breath 
DOWN
18 Ramblers 41 Lunar vehicle 
1 Gr.chorus
43 Small amounts 
19 Flavorful movement
44 Blouse
21 Timetable abbr. 2 Brlstle·llke
45-out
22 Chooses structures
(annihilate)
23 Turk. money 
46 Hagen the 3 Apiaries 24 Son of actress 4 Cuckoos 
Aphrodite 47 -·nez 5 Rodent 25 Exclamation of 48 Island In the 6 Small white triumph Aegean flowers 
26 More 49 Most 7 Portable 
depressed depressed dwelling 27 Carpentry tool 51 Instruction 8 To have: Fr. 28 Regards highly books 9 Beach stuff 
£)Lml~ WHERE THE FUN PEOPLE ARE!!
§~ 
FRIDAY 
6 -8 Brats, Burgers, Spuds, Salad & 14 oz. Draft $4.00 limited supply SO COME EARLY!U 
Berke Breathed 

Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
One remark led to another, and the bar suddenly polarized Into two angry, confrontational factions: those espousing lhe virtues ol the double-humped camel on the one side, single humpers on lhe other. 
10 Preceder of 
corn or pod 11 Verbatim 12 Environmental 
area 15 Student Item 16 Indonesian 
boat 20 Primates 23 On one's toes 24 Glasgow the 
author 26 Beauty's friend 27 Eur. city 29 Contents of a 
chest 30 Provoke In a 
way 32 Dinner courses 33 Rectify 34 Outfit for 
dancing 35 Man in the corrlda 
36 Levant ketch 44 -up (learns) 37 Sustenance 45 Shore bird 38 Explosive 47 -up 
noises (energizes) 
48 Room In a casa 
40 "Elmer-" 
50 Bambi's mother 
42 Interfere 52 Nosh 
Thursday's Solution 


SATURDAY 
PREGAME CELEBRATION Brats and Hotdogs
*Brown bag lunches available 
for the game!! AFTERWARDS PARTY with us 
Campus 
Friday, Sept. 21 
•12: 
15 -1 p.m. -Fonam, "Religion, Politics, and the First Amendment," Prof. John Robinson, ND, For Faculty and Staff, Room 124 Social Concerns Center, Brown Bag or Soup and Bread, II. 

•4 
· 6 p.m. ·Spanish Club Get Together, Senior Alumni Club, Sponsored by ND Spanish Club. 

•4:30 
p.m. ·Field Hockey, ND vs. Valparaiso Col· lege, Alumni Field. 

•7 
p.m.· Pep Rally, Stepan Center. 

•7, 
9:30p.m. & 12 a.m.· Fllm, "Excalibur," Engi­neering Auditorium, 11. 50. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.· Fllm, "African Queen," Starring Humphrey Bogart, Knights of Columbus Hall, Sponsored by Knights of Columbus, 11 (members free). 

•7:30 
& 9:45p.m.-Fllm, "And The Ship Salls On,"' Annen berg Auditorium, Sponsored by Friday Night Film Series. 

•8 
p.m. -Volleyball, ND Women vs. DePaul , Arena (T), ACC. 

•8 
p.m.· Soccer, ND vs. Illinois, Cartier Field. 


Saturday, Sept. 22 
•1:30 
p.m. EST · Football, ND vs. Colorado, At Notre Dame. 

•5 
p.m. · Mass, All Are Welcome, Farley Hall Chapel. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.· Fllm, "African Queen," Starring Humphrey Bogart, Knights of Columbus Hall, Sponsored by Knights of Columbus, Sl (members free). 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 6:30p.m. 16 M•A•s•u 22 Family Feud 7:00p.m. 16 Dean Manln Celebrity Roast 22 Comedy Zone 
8:00p.m. 16 Mlama VIce 22 Move · Burning Rage ~ Washington Week In Review 
8:30p.m. ~ Wall Sucet Week 9:00p.m. ~ From Verona· Tasca !O:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News !0:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 
22 Newhart/CBS Late Movie ll:OOp.m. ~ Movie · Maltese Falcon 11:30p.m. 16 Friday Night VldC06 

© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 9/21/84 All Rights Reserved 
: Tonight and Tomorrow Night : 
! EXCALIBUR ! 
• 7:00, 9:30, 12:00 • 
$1 50
• E A d •
• ng. u . e 
into the wee hours of the NIGHT! 
9 -CLOSE BLOWOUT to : *NEXT WEEK: Dirty Harry Week* :
Open at9! 
stampede the Buffalos 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••4 
Friday, September 21, 1984 -page 24 

Volleyball team attempts to even season record tonight vs. DePaul 
By ERIC SCliEUERMANN Lambert's main goal was for the is struggling a bit against tough com­Sports Writer team to improve in all facets of vol­petition, and Lambert realizes that a leyball, both physical and mental. Al­conference championship must be 
The Notre Dame volleyball team though the record now stands at first on his list ofgoals. will try to even its record at 4-4 only 3-4, the Irish have begun to "We have to start somewhere," tonight at 8:00 in the ACC when it move in this direction. says Lambert, "and the league is faces DePaul in a North Star Confer­"The team has been improving, where we have to start." ence match. and they've improved on their con­Aiming for the conference cham­
With a loss to Illinois State last sistency," says Lambert. "But now pionship seems like the logical thing weekend, the Irish record dropped we've got to find a way to put it over to do, for the Irish have not per­to 3-4. Their chance to move to .500 the hump." formed consistently over the first comes tonight, but they will have to Perhaps the Irish will begin to do seven games. Volleyball is a sport 
beat a tough Blue Demon squad to just that tonight against the Blue that demands consistency, so the in­do it. Demons. consistency of the Irish has usually 
Last year the Demons pounded As far as Lambert is concerned, led to mediocre play. the Irish by a 3-0 score in a regular this is a very important game for his Notre Dame has been able to season contest, and swept them team. The Irish are facing a confer­defeat some less-talented teams, but again in the conference tournament.. ence foe and can move to 2-0 in the has not had much success against 
Notre Dame coach Art Lambert feels conference with a victory. The team some of the larger volleyball pro-they will be even tougher this year. "I know they had their best 
,... Soccer team heads into 
recruiting ever," says Lambert. 

"They're the odds-on favorite to take the league championship." grams. Lambert hopes to slowly gain 
two big weekend games 
ground on these more talented teams, but accepts the position ofhis By DAN MICHELINI it will set up one ofthe bigger games 
team at this time. Sports Writer in Notre Dame soccer history. On lbe Observer/Pete Laches "I'm not pleased with the record," Sunday the Irish, undefeated and Fresbman]tll Sugllch and her teammates will be trying to even says Lambert, "but I'm realistic Most coaches like to get two ranked seventh in the ISAA Mideast Notre Dame's record at 4-4 as the Irish f'!ce North Star Conference enough to know that we can't ex­things out ofan athletic contest, one region, travel to Bloomington to foe DePaul tonight at8:00 In the ACC. Eric Scheuermann previews pect more than that at this time." being a victory and the other being face the undefeated and top-ranked tontghrs important match in his story at left. At the beginning of the season, some type of learning experience. (nationally) Hoosiers ofIndiana. It is Often, only one of these ends up oc­always exciting to get a shot at the curring. This was the case last Friday number-one team, and Notre Dame 
night when the Notre Dame soccer will definitely have its hands full.
Dillon remains team to beat 
team played Michigan State to a 2-2 draw. The Irish did not win the "Indiana is the best college team game, but they might have learned ever to play college soccer," states
Interhall football begins Sunday 
something in the process. Grace, a former player and coach at playoff game last season after reach­Stanford squad lost its quarterback, "We must always have a positive, IU. "Plus, they are piaying very good
ByBRIAN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer ing the finals in 1982. However, look but, still, should be as strong as last aggressive attitude going into a ball right now and haven't lost at for the rest ofthe division, led by last year's team. Stanford's opening game," stressed Irish coach Dennis home in four or five years." Although another football game year's divisional runner-up Sorin, to game will pit it against traditionally­Grace. "If, from the game with MSU, However, Grace insists that the may be on your mind this weekend, present strong opposition. tough Alumni, which also made the we learned that we have to go into a Irish will not just be looking to keep 
men's interhall football competition Pangborn, 1-2-1last year, gets the playoffs last fall. · game thinking that we can win, then the score close. gets under way on Sunday at Stepan first crack at Howard at 2 p.m. Sun­In the second Leahy game, ZahQI the tie was worth it." "Every winning streak has to fields. As in the past, expect the day, and Pangborn coach Mike Barry faces Cavanaugh at 2 p.m. This is the type of attitude Notre come to anend," he stressed. "We're games to provide close scores and says, "We can compete with anyone Cavanaugh coach K.C. Culum Dame will have to carry with it into not going there just to stay in the emotional play. The league is organ­in the league." It was Pangborn who remarks that his team, led by quar­this weekend's games against Illinois game. I have every intention of ized the same as last year with sepa­provided the only blemish on terback Kevin Sidders, has several and Indiana. gearing us to beat them." rate divisions named Rockne, Leahy Howard's regular season record last players who have not played inter­The Fighting Illini, who come to Grace adds that one advantage and Parseghian for the small, year, a 0-0 tie. hall before but who do have high town tonight for an 8:00 game on which Notre Dame will have is that medium and large dorms, The other Rockne Division game school exerience. Cartier Field, boast one oftheir most he knows more about Indiana respectively. Sunday features Carroll vs. Sorin at 3 They will need their experience if competitve teams in recent years. players than his Hoosier counterpart 
In the Rockne Division, two-time p.m. Zahm's John Looney's optimism is "Big, strong, and extremely physi­knows about Irish talent. Also, being divisional champion Howard tries As champion of the Leahy Divi­well-founded. Looney has several re­cal," says Grace of Illinois. "The key the top team in the nation carries for three in a row. Howard, which sion last fall, Stanford will be shoot­turning players, including lineback-for us will be to play our game and to with it a lot ofpressure, which could has not dropped a regular season ing for a return trip to the finals. control the tempo." 
see PREVIEW, page 20 see WEEKEND, page 22
game in two years, lost their first Coach Chris Soha reports that the Ifthe Irish are victorious tonight, 
Are our amateurs really professionals? 
In a few months, Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps and other college coaches will be signing high school seniors to something the NCAA calls a national letter-of-intent. A letter-of-intent is, very simply, a written commitment by the senior to attend a certain school on some type ofathletic grant. 
But when a high school senior signs a letter-of-intent, is it much different than ifhe were signing a professional con­tract to play for the Boston Celtics or Los Angeles Lakers? 
I m(nknot. 
Certainly, there are some obvious differences between the two. For instance, the college player is not allowed to endorse products as the pro is, and, unlike the pro, the college player must meet certain academic requirements (although these requirements are barely existent at some schools). But when it comes right down to the bare fact, the college athlete is a professional. 
The "amateur" ts a professional. 
Sounds like a contradiction in terms, doesn't it? That's because it is. We like to think of our college athletes as amateurs, when, in fact, they aren't. Today's athletic schol­arship is nothing more than a thinly-veiled professional contract. 
Purists would argue otherwise, holding fast to romantic ideas of what an amateur athlete is and isn't. For example, many Americans laugh at the Russian idea ofwhat amateur sports are. In the Soviet Union, many athletes remain "amateurs" well into their 30's, playing for a government­sponsored team while also serving in the army. These So­viet athletes retain their amateur status and remain eligible 
Jeff Blumb 
Assistant Sports Editor 

for international competition. And many ofus laugh at this notion ofamateurism. 
But the British are laughing just as hard, if not harder, at us. To them, the notion ofan athlete still being an amateur when he is being paid to attend college is ludicricous. Tell me a full Notre Dame athletic scholarship worth $4,775 a semester plus books isn't, in some sense, pay. 
Granted, the approximately S 10,000 a year which Notre Dame pays its athletes on full scholarship pales in compari­son to what top Olympic athletes like Carl Lewis and Ed· win Moses are making through trust funds which they set up to get around the rules. Still, the fact remains that col­leges are effectively paying their athletes by giving them scholarships, and that makes the athletes professionals. 
Phelps even said as much in an interview with' Tbe Obseroer two weeks ago on recruiting violations. 
"We are big business today in college sports," says the Irish coach, "Yeah, (college athletes) are professionals. If we're going to have a student-athlete, then the next step is that they've got to be compensated. Why? Because they are special. They are special people because they do generate a lot of income to a university. They perform. Fine, pay them." 
Phelps' suggestions on payment to the athlete included only room, board, tuition, and a stipend, plus maybe one round-trip plane ticket. While hardly outrageous, such sug­gestions go against the purist notion ofwhat an amateur is. 
What is outrageous, though, are notions like that which University of Miami football quarterback Bernie Kosar recently suggested. Kosar's all-too-brilliant suggestion was that college athletes should be paid a regular salary, which, at first thought, doesn't seem overly outrageous. The out­rageous portion of Kosar's suggestion is that those salaries be based on merit, or, in other words, the better players would get paid more than the less talented ones. 
This isn't professionalism? True, few people would pay heed to the suggestions of Kosar. My point, though, is that when college athletics has reached the point where ath­letes suggest that they be allowed to negotiate salaries as professional athletes would, then we already have profes­sionalism in the game. 
The whole point of this tolumn is not that profes­sionalism in college athletics is all that bad. It's not if tight controls are maintained and rules are strictly enforced. But that is not the case right now. 
There is a bumpersticker in Texas that reads, "Support professional football -give to SMU." While most schools are not as bad as SMU in this respect, many are moving in that direction -and quickly. Although many people would deny the notion ofprofessionalism in college athletics, we need to admit that college sports are becoming the minor leagues for the true professionals. 
Is this what we want? 


