................................~~--.--.~~--------------------------------~--------~--·--~----~--~-------------------­
Beach party -page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. ~ WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 29, 1984 

Iranians hijack jet; force Iraq landing 
Assoclted Press "We did not use any weapons to 
hijack the plane. We only told the 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -A young, captain that we have explosives ... unarmed Iranian couple yesterday and that we would set them off if he forced an Iran Air jetliner to fly to did not proceed to Iraq," Behrow: Iraq, where they surrendered, freed said. their 204 captives and said they "It was an easy job. We didn't have wanted political asylum. a single problem," Behrouz said. 
Iran and Iraq have been at war for "lbe captain and the crew and the four years. Iran accused Iraq of sen­passengers were very sympathetic. ding warplanes to force the hijacked 'lbey congratulated us when we plane to land in Iraq, a charge an landed in Iraq." Iraqi official called "ridiculous." The Ferechte smiled ao; she sat next to 
-
official said the hijackers would be Behrouz. She said nothing. granted asylum. Iraqi officials escorted reporters The male hijacker, who identified to the airport's VIP lounge to inter­
himselfonly by his given name -Be­view the couple. Although reporters hrouz -told reporters at Baghdad air saw the pao;sengers and crew of the port that he and his girlfriend were hijacked jetliner at the airport, they "planning to request political were not allowed to speak to them. asylum in Iraq, because this is the The pao;sengers and crew were taken only country where we can live to a Baghdad hotel for the night, freely." Iraqi officials said. 
Behrouz said he and his girlfriend, Asenior official for the Iraqi Infor­identified only by her first name, mation Ministry said the hijackers Ferechte, "commandeered the "will certainly be granted political 
by studentsfor canoeing, rowing, or sunbathing, was 
plane 10 minutes after it took off asylum." He said the passengers and 
ll'hat is dry on the Saint Mary's campus. The lake, used drainedfor repairs. 
from Shiraz," a city in southern Iran, 
see JET, page 5 
on a flight to Tehran. 

Rowley relatives dispute administration of estate 
ByMARGARETFOSMOE by Rowley's father, Harold Rowley, Rxecuttr'e Rdttor Sr., of Palos Heights, lll., to place the  Rowley's widow, has filed a petition requesting that she be named ad­ ally be sold by the IRS. Rowley's survivors are attempting to reach an  named administrator of the estate. According to Scopelitis, at the  
estate under protection of a federal  ministrator of the estate, said  agreement on "who is going to pay  time of Rowley's death the parking  
'lbe relatives of murdered Corby's bankruptcy court. Rowley, Sr. is cur­ Scopelitis. Rose Rowley charges that  the taxes and who is going to run the  lot of the tavern was in Rose  
Tavern owner Harold Rowley, Jr., rently administering his son's estate,  Rowley, Sr. can not administer the  place," said Scopelitis.  Rowley's name. 'lbe title to the land  
an-trying to rcat:h an agreement on which includes C.T.l., Inc., the cor­ estate because he does not qualify as  Scopelitis added that after seizing  the tavern is on wa-; in the name of  
who should administer Rowley's poration which owns the popular  an Indiana resident. Rose Rowley  property the IRS usually allows two  Rowley, Jr. and James Broad, a  
estate, according to Michael student bar.  and Rowley, Jr. were estranged and  weeks to a month for taxes to be  Chicago accountant, said Scopelitis.  
Scopclitis, tht· attorncy of Rowley's Rowley, Sr. requested the hearing  in the process ofobtaining a divorce  paid before the property is sold.  Ro.wley,Jr. died without a will.  
widow. after the Internal Revenue Service  when the bar owner was shot and  The bar was seized and closed last  In other action, approximately  
Ahcaring that began Tucsday con­refused to allow C.T.l. to make par­ killed Aug. l.  Thursday.  seven creditors have filed claims  
ccrning the future of the Rowley tial or installment payments on  "One of the things agreed upon"  Rowley, Sr. is also asking the court  against the estate totalling more  
cstate will continue Friday in Super­nearly $13,000 in back employee  by Rose Rowley and Rowley, Sr., ac­ to approve an injuction to keep Rose  than S26,000. Under Indiana state  
ior Court. taxes.  cording to Scopelitis, is "to get the  Rowley from entering the bar or  law, creditors have five months to  
'lbt· ht·aring will decide: a request Rose Rowley, of Orland Park, Ill.,  bar open as quickly as possible."  Rowley's house at 2609 York Road.  file claims against an estate.  
Rescuers race to ailing  Ifthe taxes are not paid, the prop­erty and liquor license may eventu- Rose Rowley claims she owns the bar and house and is seeking to be  Friday's hearing will be at I I a.m. beforeJudge William Whitman.  
ship off Long Beach  
A.<~sodated Press arrived about I p.m. today,said Petty  
Officer Frank Brown.  
1.(>NG BEACH, Calif. -Rescue ves­"Ilte I '5-foot swells washed one  
sels rushed yesterday toward a life raft away from the freighter, and  
hurricane·lao;ht·d freighter that lay officials said the crew would be safer  
dead in the water, a gaping hole in its on hoard than on the remaining life  
how, aftt·r its "frantic" captain and rafts or rafts that could have been  
l.l. crew members stabilized the lowered by aircraft, Petty Officer  
foundl'fing ship. Rick Woods said.  
Ain:raft dropped pumps early yes­"life rafts can get blown around,  
terday to the 3'50-foot Blue Falcon, they can get blown over," he said. "I  
which t•mitted a Morse Code know from personal experience that  
mayday at 9:30 p.m. Monday saying a lifeboat looks very small out there.  
it wa.o; sinking in the: Pacific Ocean I've been on search aircraft looking  
about 900 miles southwest of San for them."  
Diego. After the Blue Falcon, registered  
"'lbe vt·ssd is no longer sinking," in Cyprus and bound for Panama  
li.S. Coa.~t Guard l.t.Ikhra Harbaugh from Honolulu, issued its mayday,  
said about 9:4'l a.m. yesterday. Offi­proceeded for several hours at about  
cials wcrt· unsure how the crew 4 knots, then fell dead in the water.  
Mabilized the ship, hut, said Ms. Har· officials said.  
hau~h. "II':. holding ils own."  
"'lbt· captain of the ship was 'lbe Coast Guard dropped three  
prctly framk and ht· wanted to aban­pumps able to move 2'50 gallons of  
don ~hip" t•arly yesterday, said Har· water a minute: to the ship about 4  
baugh. "'Ibe Coast Guard has a.m., hut officials were unsure what  
instrul'tt·d them not to abandon ship stabilized the ship.  'lbc-()bscrvcr/PC'IC' l.arhn  
unless ahsolutdy mandatory." "It could be the pumps, or il could be that they have damage control,"  Domermobile  
A merchant vcsscl speeding Harbaugh said.  


toward the scene wa.o; expected to  'Ibe freighter, carrying '5,000 tons  Dillon  junior Kevin  Bullenfield shows  off his  originally belonged to an old nun and was refused by  
arrive at midni~otht yesterday, and it  of goods including manganese ore,  school-spirited car, "Holy Rollet·," which is brightly  the poor, according to Butterfield. He insists, however,  
was to stand by and offer emergency  apparently crossed the path of Hur­ painted  with  catchy prases  and  arrows.  Tbe  car  that it runs like a charm.  
hdp  until  a  Coast  Guard  cutter  ricane Lowell.  

~---~----------------­
The Observer Wednesday, August 29, 1984 -page 2 
Dan McCullough 
News Editor 
Inside Wednesd 

social life caused by Monster Alcohol are over­shadowed by this realization that it is the legal liability about which they are actually worried. The administra­tion's rationalization for their policy is tarnished if not destroyed. 
The policy was implemented for the Administration's -not the students' -own good. 
Student sentiment will run strong on this issue. It will run so strong that the students will figure out some way to enjoy their football games as they had in the past ­
beer in one hand, pennant in the other. These are the brightest young men and women from across the country so it's a good bet that they'll figure out some way to get around the tail­gaterban. 
And the administration won't be too upset if they do. 
Father David Tyson said, "I could see that (the former acceptance of tailgaters) was a blaring inconsistency. The acceptance of tailgaters was clearly out of mind of what the committee meant by the spirit of the report." This is true. How could a the I policy hope to cure the 
campus of its cancerous social dependency on alcohol while at the same time accept the presence of tailgaters which bring out the most subliminal Dyonisian traits in every Fightin' Irish diehard. 
They couldn't. So the trustees put their collective foot down and got rid of the University-sanctioned tail­gaters. But they know this will not be the end of the pre-game festivities. They will continue to occur. Only now Notre Dame is no longer liable. They just can't be sued. 
So it turns out the administration wasn't as con­cerned with the social health of its student body after all. They were just covering their blue and gold der­riere. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 

In Brief 

The new drinking age law is recelVlng a decidedly mixed reaction on campuses nationwide. Although admi­nistrators have long been involved in efforts to reduce irresponsible student drinking, many believe the new national drinking age of 21 simply will encourage more off-campus drinking and partying, rather than eliminating alcohol consumption among 18 to 20 year olds. Administrators face potential discipline problems when they try to enforce the new laws in residence halls and at campus-wide functions. --The Obseroer 
Charles Geoffrion has been appointed faculty re­search consultant for the Institute for Scholarship in the liberal Arts by Michael Loux, dean of the College ofArts and Letters. In his new position, Geoffrion will assist Arts and Letters faculty members in the preparation of grant and fellowship proposals. Geoffrion most recently has been program director of the Firefly Festival ofthe Per­forming Arts and administrator of the Holy Cross Associates Pro­gram. -The Obseroer 
More than 70 freshmen and transfer students were welcomed Saturday at the annual Army ROTC picnic. Students and their parents discussed scholarship and career opportunities with cadre members and Army ROTC upperclassmen. Many ofthese students already are recipients ofhighly competitive four-year Army ROTC scholarships. -Tbe Obseroer 
Dr. Gordon Sargent, chairmanofthedepart­ment ofmetallurgy and materials science, has been electedsa Fellow of the American Society for Metals. A native oflincolnshire County, England, Sargent came to the United States in 1962. He was a mem­ber of the University of Kentucky materials science faculty for 15 years before coming to Notre Dame in 1982. -Tbe Obseroer 
The Financial Aid Office has announced the ap­pointments of Edwin B. Harris as associate director and Father joseph H. Carey as assistant director of Financial Aid. Harris, who received a doctoral degree in education administration at Syracuse University last year, will supervise the research and systems opera­tions of the Financial Aid Office. Carey has served as financial aid counselorsince 1979 and received his bachelor's degree in account­ing at Notre Dame in 1962. -The Obseroer 
The ~ew director of planned giving on campus ts ). Christopher Carlin. Carlin is a 1980 Notre Dame law graduate. Carlin has been a member ofthe Miller and Carlin law firm ofSt. joseph, Mich., where he specialized in business and corporate planning, trusts, charitable gifts and bequests. In his new position he will be responsible for administering the University's program for generating support through wills and bequests, trusts, pooled incomefunds, insurance and otherforms ofdeferred support. -Tbe Obseroer 
Weather 

Partly sunny, hotand humid today with a 20 percent chance of afternoon thun­derstorms. High around 90. A 20 percent chance of evening thunderstorms tonight, otherwise clear and cooler, with a low in the mid 60s. Partly sunny tomorrow and warm with highs in the mid 80s. 

The~ObserYer 
Today's issue was produced by: 

The Observer (!''"' '\')') 2-4111111) ;, Design Editor .................... ; ........... Troy Illig puhli,heu ~lorulay lhrough l'rida. and Design Assistant......................... Liz Carroll on homl' foothaH Saturdays. l:'Xt:c.·pt Typesetters .................... This has gotta stop 
Uuring t:xam and \'a<.:ation pt-riotb. The 
News Editor ................................ Mary Healy Observer is puhlished h\·lhe stu<l<·nlsof 
Copy Editor ...........................Jane Kcavchik tht· l'nivt.~rsily of N•Hrt" -Damt: and ~aint 
Sports Copy Editor .............. Marc Ramirez .\tary·~ Collt:'~t.· '-'uh!-~c.·ription~ may ht: VIewpoint Copy Editor .......... Dave Grote 
pun:ha~t:U for S2S pt:r year ( S I 'i per VIewpoint Layout.................... Dave Grote !-.t:mt.·stc:r) hy v. riting The Observer,. ND Day Editor ................... Kathleen Doyle 
P.O. Hox ().Noire: Dame, Indiana -t65.:;6 Ad Design ......................... Suzanne LaCroix The Observer b a mc.·mht.·r oflbeAs­Photographer ............................ Pete Laches 
sociated Press. All rt'production right!\ 
arc rcst:rvt:'d. 



Tailgater ban just another case of concern over liability 
The state law says a person must be twenty-one to drink alcohol. But this is not the legal point that the administration was worried about when it formulated its new alcohol policy. 
It's the current emphasis on legal liability that got their attention. You hear it everytime the subject of the new alcohol policy comes up in discussion. Students and administrators agree that the issue is liability and not necessarily obeying the state law. 
In Illinois, bartenders and liquor store clerks are reponsible for the actions of drunken customers they may have served. In some states, a host is liable for his guests after they leave a private party. And at Notre Dame the administration was worried that they would be liable for their student's actions during Notre Dame's (in)famous tailgaters. 
Notre Dame was recently a defendant in a court case in which a woman who was injured at a Notre Dame football game sued the University for $201,037. Chris­tenna Bearman, the plaintiff, was knocked down by two unidentified men outside the Notre Dame Stadium after the 1979 Notre Dame­South Carolina game. While the exact amount ofthe Uni­versity's settlement is un­known, Notre Dame was judged to be fully liable for the injuries. 
Litigation is a modern fact of life. It has become a fre­quent occurence in Ameri­can culture today. Even such television programs as the "People's Court" reflect America's fascination with lawsuits. Today, whenever there is any kind ofaccident litigation is usually the protocol. 
And the Bearman lawsuit made the Board ofTrustees 
stop and think. What ifsomething happens at a student­
run tailgater? How many more lawsuits must we lose 
before something is done? 

"No more," came the answerfrom the trustees -even though the final report from the Committee for the Re­sponsible Use of Alcohol stated, "It would be almost impossible to eliminate alcohol at tailgaters on football weekends; therefore, these should be allowed." 
But the trustees decided that it wouldn't be all that impossible after all. So they demanded and got a change in the policy. No tailgaters. No more lawsuits. Tell the students that we're doing this for their own good. 
Not quite. 

Who does the Administration think they are kidding? 
The trustees have tipped their hand. The Administra­
tion's earlier virtuous explanations of how the new 
policy would heal the cancerous wounds on student 



The Observer Wednesday, August 29, 1984 -page 3 

Annual ACC sleepout
Seniors watt In line for season football ticket overnight but a popular arrival time was 8 a.m. The distribution yesterday afternoon. A few slept out office openedfor distribution at 3 p.m. 

Provost O'Meara announces new department heads during summer 
Sp~clal to Th~ Observer 
Timothy O'Meara, University provost, announced the appoint· ment of several department chair· men this past summer. 
Howard Lanser. associate 
professor of finance, has been 
named chairman of the department 
of finance and business economics. 
Lanser received a bachelor's degree 
In electrical engineering from Notre 
Dame in 196S. 
He served a~ an officer in the U.S. Navy's (]vii Engineer Corps and received a ma~ter's degree in indus· trial administration from Purdue University. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1971 and received a doctorate in finance from Purdue the following year. 
Charles Craypo, formerly a profes· sor of industrial and labor relations at Cornell University, has been ap· pointed chairman of the economics department. Craypo, who received his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from Michigan State Univer· slty, was associate professor of eco· 
nomics at Notre Dame from 1978 to 
1982. 
The chair of the department of communication and theatre has 
been filled by Mark Cartwright Pilkinton, of the department of theatre and drama at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. A 1969 graduate of Memphis State Univer· sity, Pilkington received a master's degree in drama from England's Uni· versity of Bristol in 197S. He was tutor at the World Center for Shake· speare Studies in London and ad· junct instructor in drama at the University of Bristol, and later was assistant professor of speech and theatre at Auburn University, Mon­togomery, Ala. 
Dr. William Dwyer, a Notre Dame faculty member since 1980, has been appointed chairman of the mathematics department. Dwyer previously taught at Yale University and wao; a member of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, 
N.J. He received his bachelor's degree in 1969 from the Massachu· setts Institute of Technology. In 1981 he received a Sloan Fellowship 
for Basic Research from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation of New York. His research also has been funded by the National Science Foundation. 
A native of Romania, Dr. Anthony Michel is joining the Notre Dame faculty as chairman of the depart· 

PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS MANAGERS 
U. S. Navy Supply Corps has openings in training programs offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified applicants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to immediate managerial positions In one of the following areas: 
* 
Systems inventory management 

* 
Acquisition Contracting

* 
Computer Systems 

* 
Financial Management 



Starting salary $17,000 with benefits-rapid advance­ment. Qualifications: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred. U.S. 
ment ofelectrical engineering. Prior to coming to Notre Dame, Michel was a professor of electrical engi · neering at Iowa State University. He received a bachelor's degree in elec· trical engineering, a ma<;ter's in mathematics and a doctorate in elec· trical engineering, all from Mar· quette University. In 1973 he received a Doctor ofScience degree from the Technische Universitat in Graz, Austria. He has been teaching 
and  conducting  research  at  Iowa  
State since 1968.  
Besides  announcing  these  

departmental chairs this summer, in July O'Meara named Gerald Bruns, a professor ofEnglish at the University of Iowa, the William P. and Hazel B. White Professor of English at Notre Dame. His appointment will take ef. feet in the fall of 1985. 
Bruns, who holds bachelor's and master's degrees from Marquette University, received his doctoral degree from the University of Vir· ginia in 1966. He taught at Ohio State University for five years before joining the English faculty at the Uni· versity of Iowa in 1970. During the 
1981-82 academic year he served as Aero) Arnold Distinguished Visiting Professor at the University ofSouth· 
Couple convicted after son dies of pneutnonia 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA CITY, Ind. -Afactory foreman and his wife, both members of a religious sect that disdains the use of doctors and medicine, were convicted of reckless homicide and child neglect yesterday in the death of their infant son from an untreated pneumonia. 
A Whitley, Circuit Court jury deliberated just over two hours before returning the verdict against Gary Hall, 33, and his 27-year-old wife, Margaret, of Churubusco. 
Their 26-day-old son, Joel David, died Feb. 16. 
The Halls listened silently and without outward reaction as Judge Edward Meyers read the verdict at the end of the one-day trial. The Halls became the first members of the Faith Assembly Church to be convicted on criminal charges for withholding medical care from a de· pendent. 
The Rev. Hobart Freeman, leader 
of the Noble County·based sect, 
teaches followers to rely on prayer 
for healing and to shun conventional 
medical treatment. 
The Halls declined to talk to reporters and left the courtroom after Meyers allowed them to remain free on their own recog· nizance. 
Sentencing was set for Sept. 24. 
Appearing on the stand in their own defense. the Halls defended their religious practice of avoiding medical treatment. 
"I don't believe the law should 

force somebody to go to the doc· 
tor," Hall said. He said his family 
relies on Jesus for healing and that 
state child abuse law provides a reli· 
gious exemption for parents who 
would treat a child's illness with 

prayer rather than medicine. 
"In God we do trust," he said. 
Mrs. Hall testified that she has 

lived by the Bible since she wa~ 12 
and that scriptures sayJesus heals ill· 
ness. 
"When our s0n, Joel, got sick, I didn't take him to a doctor, I took him to Jesus and I ao;ked our doctor (Jesus) to heal him," she said. 
In his closing argument, Whitley County Prosecutor John Whiteleat· her, Jr., bore in on the specific Jan· guage in the child abuse law that provides a religious exemption. 
The exemption applies to "legitimate" religious practices a<; defined by reasonable parents, he said. But rea~onablc parents would have sought medical care for a child who became seriously ill, he argued. 
"Parents may be free to make mar· tyrs of themselves, but they are not free to make martyrs of their children," he said, quoting a U.S. Su· preme Court decision. 
Beach party to include biathlon, windsurfing 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
News Staff 
A Labor Day beach party to in· elude a biathlon, a single elimination innertube water polo tournament, and a windsurfing clinic will be held this Saturday at St. Joseph's Lake. 
The party, scheduled for 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., is being sponsored by the non-varsity athletic department. The department is expecting a large turnout though it will be the first time it has sponsored such an event. 
Admission is free. Sailing and canoeing will be availaible with op­portunities to meet with members ofthe respective clubs. 
A sound system will provide music for the event, and hamburgers, hot dogs and pop corn provided by University Food 
ern California. Services will be on sale.
............................•.,
• ~~~~~'=M1E~~ e SNNT IYIAA.'!S w.rr~S ~~SSNHr IYIAA.'!S e 
: IH~lH~ IHEA~lH~ : 
• A.LlblTlON5 
• open to all students •• •• • no expenence necessary •• 
••• AUGUST 30 •• •• 7=00 pm • 
• LIBRARY AUDITORIUM • 
------NOTRE DAME --•
• • AUGUST 31 • • 7:00pm • : LITTLE THEATRE : 
The biathlon, which consists of a half·mile swim and a two-mile run, will begin at I 0 a.m. Only the first SO entries will be accepted and deadline for registration is Friday at S. The water polo tourney will begin at noon and there will be a limit of 16 teams with at Jea~t ten people on a roster. The registration deadline is also Friday at S. 
The windsurfing clinics will con· 

sist in two-and· a-half hour sessions 
with limited class sizes. There will 
be a JS charge, and registration 
deadline is Thursday at S. The clinic 
will begin Saturday at 11. 
To register for any or all three events see Sally Derengoski, co­ordinator of recreational services in the non-varsity athletic office in the ACC. 
In case of rain, the party will be held Sunday. 
SAVE AT ELEK·TEK TEXAS INSTRUMENTS (f BA·2 533 i 11·55·2 5 33 TI·MBA 25 11·51 22 BA·55 43 TI·LCO·PROG 50 BA·SS Tl·66 52  
El5100T 543­PC 1250A 580 El5500T 70 StiArlf' CE 125 119 CE 126P 55­PC 1500A 160 El512T 28 CE 150 165  
HEWLETT·PACKARD LCD PROBLEM SOLVERS HP·11C Sc1ent1f1c $56 HP·15C Sc1entrf1c 90 HP·12C Frnanc1al 90 HP·16C Programmer 90 HP·41CV Sl61 HP·410 245 Opllcal War<J 9~ Card Reader 14' Prrni1JI82143Ar 283 HP·IL l(QIIOIIII HP·IL MOdulf 595 HP·IL Pf1nler Ploller m AcoustiC Modern 395 D•g Cassette Onve 335 HP·41CV Th•n¥Jel Prmter 3• I $161 0 S 0 0 D•sk Or•v~ 6UO  

l'd :;:.:,:;;.. 
I :·.:. 'til~ I. 
TOll fR(( OROfR UHf

citizenship a must. Age limit 29. Call Navy Toll Free 
IOO·Ul·IU9

: -----SAINT MARY'S : 
IXCfPT lllioti>. Alnke, K1w11i 
lut\~11~ dtWIUIIItcl IN Me\lti!Oid 01 V111 tly 191011 01 phtllt Mo1l (o~r 1 lhtc~ Mtftt10rd rm Chtckl1•htotlrJ 'tcln,noCODI AddUOOht

• Over 20 roles for men & women; technical •
1-800-382·9782 
•ltm SIOOto oddl1hpg 1 handl \h'" tolldd!tllodd /lltlu '•Ktl

• positions available sign up at auditions • 
Wbi Ill II'IGIIft WRm ,.. rtlll) '·· ,,.. ....,... lO· ... ,...... jMiht 

• Scripts on loan from theatre dept offices •
Navy representative on campus Oct. 10 & 11 at the Placement Office 
• do eomethlng daring • 

The Observer Wednesday, August 29, 1984 -page 4 

Space shuttle launch again delayed 
Associated Press Fueling of the shuttle's huge fuel tank had not begun. CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -The first Engineers had spent most of the 
launch of the space shuttle Dis­covery was postponed for the third time last night, this time by a prob­lem in the electronic system that jet­tisons the ship's booster rockets and fuel tank when they are empty. 
liftoff w:u. rescheduled for 8:35 
a.m. EDT tomorrow, 24 hours late. 
The space agency's prestige and the fortunes ofAmerica's space pro­gram ride on a successful flight. Twice before, the crew of six had climbed into the ship's cockpit, only to find themselves still earthbound a few hours later. 
It didn't get that far this time. The crew was asleep when top NASA offi­cials made the decision less than 12 hours before the scheduled blastoff. 

Fabricating resumes common for nearly 33 percent of all job seekers 
Spec1al to The Observer 
Looking for a new job and feeling self-indulgent? If you fabricate your resume to find that job, you are among one-third of all job seekers who attempt to boost themselves 
falsely in the eyes of a prospective employer. 
If you "give" yourself an Masters of Business Administration to ·boot, you have awarded yourself the most common ofmanufactured degrees. 
Some signs of the "ringer" are evi­
dent, according to Dr. Robert Vec­
chio, a professor of management at 
the University who addressed the 
problem of phony resumes in a 
recent issue of the journal 
Personnel. 
One of the most obvious signs, Vecchio said, is an ambiguous resume. Oddly phrased sections, many abbreviations, and gaps in em­ployment dates should be a warning. 
Vecchio said that some candidates list a number of schools they have "attended" with hope that the em­ployer will interpret that to mean "graduated." The term may not be an out right lie, but it does constitute 
misrepresentation, notes Vecchio. 
Abbreviations are another cause 
for caution, Vecchio said. He 
recalled the story of a job candidate 
who listed graduation from "USC." 
In the employer's mind, USC 
translated into the University of 
Southern California. Late in the in­
terview, however, the candidate ad­
mitted that his degree was from the 
University ofSouthern Colorado. 
Gaps in employment and dates listed with years but not months also should be questioned. Such omis­sions might imply the candidate has more past experience than he or she actually possesses. Vecchio said the technique might also mask the time it took to obtain a degree, pastfirings or worse: "Who knows, the person might have spent that time in jail." 
But even though some mis­
representations, such as inflating 
past salaries and responsibilities, 
might seem fairly harmless, Vecchio said the overall problem is hardly a trivial matter. The statistics he cited, collected by the National Credential Verification Service of Minneapolis, indicate that employers run roughly a one-in-three risk of hiring a can­didate who is misrepresented in 
someway. 
"Candidates who lose out on a job opportunity when a less qualified candidate lies are, to a large extent, victimized. Someone loses out and the career ofa qualified candidate is affected by a fraudulent candidate. Co-workers and customers are also placed at risk." More extreme cases might cause serious harm, Vecchio said, using the example ofan impos­tor surgeon. 
But the good news is that employers can weed out most ofthe day working on the electronic sys­tem problem, programming new commands into Discovery's on­board computer. 

"Even though the testing was going well, there was still a lack of confidence ... they wanted more time for more eyes to look at the software problem," said NASA spokesman Charles Redmond. 
He said the extra day will also give the crewa chance to practice using a manual backup system for discard­ing the spent boosters and fuel tank. Their dead weight would prevent the shuttle from going into orbit. 
The weather for Thursday mor­ning looked good for a launch, forecasters said. 
Redmond characterized the prob-
phonies by exerting caution and, in 
cases, common sense. Vecchio sug· 
gests that employers read resumes 
carefully, making notes on any items 
to be questioned. It is also a good 
idea, he suggested to employers, to have employees who are expert in ·the field scrutinize the resume and question the candidate during inter­
views. 
In some cases, he said, candidates' skills should be tested in an on-the­job simulation. In others, transcripts should be obtained directly from an institution, not the candidate, and references should be checked by telephone or mail. However, Vee­chio added, a uniform policy for checking credentials should be developed to avoid discrimination 
charges.When fraudulence is suspected, Vecchio also suggested trapping the candidate in his or her own lie. "You might ask the candidate if he enjoyed working on the special NASA contract when he worked at XYZ Corporation. Your knowledge that XYZ Corporation was never in­
lem as "incompatibility" between sofrware and hardware in a timing system called a Master Events Con­troller. 
He explained that the trouble was in a set of signals that are supposed to be sent simultaneously to explo­sive bolts that tie the boosters and the 154-foot-long tank to the shuttle. 
"The concern is that under cer­
tain circumstances important events 
such as solid rocket booster separa­
tion and external tank separation 
may not occur," saidan official NASA 
announcement. 
Redmond said engineers were worried because the readings they received during a test indicated the signals were firing one after the other instead ofsimultaneously, and that the ship's computer was not ac­cepting this 
volved with a NASA project will make it interesting to observe how the candidate answers the ques­tion." 
The best protective measure for employers, Vecchio said, is a signed application form. Resumes normally are not signed and are not legal doc­uments. Candidates should be asked to copy specific resume information onto a signed application form which includes a statement attesting to the validity ofthe information and agreement to the employer's right to fire ifthe information is false. 
But sometimes all the precautions will fail and a "ringer" will slip through the net. In that event, Vee­chio said, the employee should be fired as soon as the misrepresenta­
tion is discovered. It should be no embarrassment to employers, he / acdodne.d, to admit to having hired a I 
I 

"It's not a disgrace to have been I 
'fbr Lache5 

Self-improvement seminar 
james ]. Mapes, president of PSI Training Seminars, held a program on personal improvement last night in the Engineering Auditorium. Mapes claimed the program, called "Choices," could help participants to "realize their full potential" and break bad habits. 
Photographers! 
For more information, call Pete Laches at The Observer, 239-5303, or inquire at the office, 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center. 

.----------------.._.
VfFl .(1,.(1, \) \ 1J ~]J)®~® lJ, u®IT~ 0 I 
I 

There will be a short organizational meeting I 
....,.,~.-..J\1'-.....~~.......,.-~1'-....,-¥-....,1'-"-.,.,.1 experUmce necessaryfor this paid position. If II you have any questions or cannot attend, call I 
takeninbyacharmer-itmayhapp· today at 4:30 for anyone interested in more frequently than is generally I I supposed," said Vecchio. computer typesetting for The Observer. No 
GARRET ELECTRONICS 
We repair all makes of stereos and VCRs We sell all makes of stylii (needles) 
3318 Mishawaka Ave. 234-3739 
rOOOCJCJOCIOO~J"J"J"J"J'"~J"'J"'./././../~.....OOOOOOOQCIQCI00"'../ 
I Campus delivery 1I 
~ ~ ~
I INew York Times 
IContact: George Devenny ~ 283-2094 145 Stanford 
t:;.........ccr~~~~..r..r~..r..r..r~..r..r~..r..r~..r..r..r..r..r..r..r~JOO 
Hey Mate! 
The Observer-needs you. The news department is accepting applications for the following 
positions: 

• 
Assistant News Editor 

• 
Saint Mary's Day Editor 


~

For more information  
contact Dan, Sarah or Anne  "  
at 239·5313. Application~  --:  
are due Thursday at 5 p.m.  

\ Kevin at 239-5313. I 
~---------------~ 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT/GMAT 
• 
TESlN·TAPE'· LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TEST 

• 
HOMESTUDY PACKET CLASSES STARTING 


SEPTEMBER 2 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. 272·4135 
BAKER's BIKE SHOP Inc. 
sc\\V~\NN Bicycles 
Parts, Accessories, 
and Service for all Makes 
277·8866 

NOTE: Bicycle storage available from 11·8-84 to 4·30-85 Call for details 
In Roseland one half mile north of campus on U.S. 31 Closed Sunday and Monday 


.-----------------------------------------~-­
The Observer Wednesday, August 29, 1984 -page 5 

A storage truck unloads its extensive cargo of trunks, crates, boxes and bikes outside of Pangborn as some students search among the rubble for their own belongings. The process of moving into rooms is winding down as students put the finishing touches on room construction. 
Associated Press 
OSTEND, Belgium -Salvage com­pany divers began yesterday the del­icate task of retrieving 225 tons of radioactive cargo from the sunken French frei~ter Mont Louis, 12 miles off the Belgian coast. 
Belgian Environment Minister Fir­min Aerts and Guy Lengagne, France's secretary of state respon­sible for maritime transport, ob­served the North Sea wreck yesterday from the French navy pa­trol ship Glaive. 
The Mont Louis is resting in 46 feet of water at low tide, when its hull breaks the surface of the water. 
Later Lengagne told reporters, "Divers have surveyed the site and the real work can start toward the end of this week. The salvaging will take three weeks, weather permit­ting." 
The Glaive has hovered near the 4,210-ton Mont Louis since the freighter sank on Saturday after col­liding with a big car ferry carrying more than 1,000 people from the Netherlands to England. No one was hurt. 
Aerts' spokesman, John 
Huylebroeck, said French navy 

If there's one thing business students have always needed, this is it: an affordable, busi­ness-oriented calculator. The Texas Instruments BA-35, the Student Business Analyst. 
Its built-in business formulas let you perform complicated finance, accounting and statistical functions -the ones that usually require a lot of time calculations, amortizations and balloon payments. 
The BA-35 means you spend less time calculating, and more time learning. One keystroke takes the place of many. 
The calculator is just part of the package. You also get a book that follows most business courses: the Business Analyst Guidebook. Business professors helped us write it, 
and a stack of reference books, to help you get the most out like present and future value of calculator and classroom. 
C 1983 Taas lnmum<nt• 

Divers begin retrieval of radioactive cargo 
A powerful combination. 
Think business. With the BA-35 Student ..fi.1 Business Analyst. -..:t' 
TEXAS 

INSTRUMENTS 
Creating useful products and services for you. 
divers surveyed the wreck Monday ni~t and found its cargo intact, in­
cluding  30  steel  containers  of  
uranium  hexafluoride  in  crystal  
form.  

The radioactive material as a gas is used in refining uranium. The cargo was bound from Le Havre, France, to Riga, in the Soviet republic of Latvia, for enrichment of uranium to be used in West Europt"an power plants. 
"'l11ere is no damage to the con­tainers," Huylebroeck said, adding that continuous sampling of water near the sitt" showt"d no radioactive contamination. 
Divers and two salvage vessels ­one from Smit Tak International of Rotterdam, the Nt"therlands, the other from L'Union de Remorquage et de Sauvetagt" ofAntwerp, Belgium 
-arrived at the wreck site yesterday, Marc Claus, nautical director of the Belgian pilot service said. 
Spokesmen for the two salvage firms said that about six salvage ves­sels and 12 divers will be used in the operation. 
Henk Drenth, a spokesman for the Dutch salvagers, said in Rotterdam that divers carried out an Initial sur­vey of the wreck yesterday after­noon. He said one of their first jobs would be to drill holes in the hull to let air out and stabilize the vessel. 
HPCurged not to overdo alcohol issue 
By CAROL CAMP 
Senior StaffReporter 
At last night's Hall Presidents' Council Meeting, Chairman Chris Tayback urged council members to avoid overemphasizing the alcohol issue. 
"I don't want to see it become the sole focus of our Jilttention and energies so that we don't get anyth· ing else done this year," Tayback said. 
He added that determining a strat­egy which can be used to deal with the effects of the new policy is a 
problem. Because the policy has just been implemented, Tayback noted that the HPC will play a key role in representing students' concerns to the administration. 
Also, Student Body Vice President Cathy David discussed the regula­tions concerning tailgaters, stating that student~ may still have tailgaters ifsoda, food and other non-alcoholic items are served. She explained that under the new rules, dorms may still hold all-hall tailgaters. For example, Dillon Hall will continue to sell food at home football games because it provides the hall with a large source of revenue. 
Additionally, David shared the philosophy of Father David Tyson, vice president ofstudent affairs. 
"These are the rules and If you're caught violating them, you're in trouble. But, there are lots of gray areas, so don't ask stupid questions because If you're wllllng to take re­sponsibility for it, you can do it." 
Jet 
continued from page I 

crew would have three choices: "to stay in Iraq, return to Iran, or leave for any destination they choose." 
The official, who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity, dismissed the Iranian claim that the jetliner was forced to land in Iraq. "This Iranian claim is ridiculous," he said. "You have two Iranian citizens here who are stating they have hijacked the plane." 
~ ~---­

The Observer Wednesday, August 29, 1984 -page 6 
Study indicates upset skin cancer victims can better cope with disease 
Associated Press 
Toronto-Skin cancer victims who are upset by the diagnosis eventually cope better than victims who try to put it out of their minds and may even have an edge in avoiding relapse, according to a preliminary study presented yesterday. 
Upset and arousal "may actually be the work of coping" and part ofa reaction that may help the immune system fight off relapse, said Madelon Visintainer, a researcher from the Yale University Medical School. 
She reported results of the study yesterday at the annual convention of the American Psychological Asso­ciation in Toronto. 
Her paper was part of a sympo­sium on suspected influence of psychological factors on the prog­ress of cancer. Some recent studies have concluded that patients who confront their disease and cope with it have a better prognosis, but nobody knows why. 

In the Yale study, 38 patients with a skin cancer called melanoma were studied soon after diagnosis, then studied again six months after sur­gery to remove the cancer and three months after that. 
Though most skin cancers are mild, melanoma can be a killer. But 79 percent of the people diagnosed with the disease between 1973 and 1980 have survived for at least five years, based on data for Caucasians, the American Cancer Society says. 
Patients in the Yale study com­pleted several tests the day before surgery to measure traits like anx­iety, distress, ways they expected to deal with the disease and the extent of change they thought it would make in their lives. Several tests were repeated six and nine months later. 
Results were used to divide patients into two groups, depending on their style of coping. Some patients, considered to have a "problem oriented" strategy, were more willing to face the cancer and do something about it. The others were considered "problem avoidant," tending to play down the threat of the disease and try to ignore it. 
Problem-oriented patients showed greater anxiety and hostility after diagnosis. They also expected the cancer would make a greater im­pact on their lives. 
But nine months later, their psy­chological distress had fallen, while that of the other group had risen. 
Anderson endorses Mondale ticket 
Associated Press 
URBANA, Ill. -john Anderson, whose independent presidential candidacy captured millions of votes in 1980, endorsed Democrat Walter Mondale yesterday and urged his followers "to walk with me now in support of the Mondale­Ferraro ticket." 
Anderson announced his su.pport for the Democratic presidential nominee at an outdoor rally in the North Quadrangle of the University of Illinois before a crowd of mostly students estimated by the Secret Ser­vice at 10,000. 
After receiving Anderson's back­ing, Mondale was flying home to Minnesota to meet with the Rev. jesse jackson and other black leaders in an effort to energize their support for the Democratic ticket. 

Mondale met alone with jackson at his North Oaks home and then sat down with several other black leaders at a St. Paul hotel. 
While Mondale was collecting An­derson's endorsement and moving to smooth over differences with black leaders, his running mate, Geraldine Ferraro, was in New jer­sey raising questions about Presi­dent Reagan's ability to keep the peace in a second term. 
"The question is: over the next four years what will happen to my son John and your children and grandchildren?" she asked. "Will this president, unrestrained by the need for re-election, heighten the risk of war? 
"I don't want to take that chance," she said, adding that Mondale would trade "proposals, not insults" with the Soviets ifelected president. 
Anderson, a former Republican congressman, received 5.7 million votes in 1980 -nearly 7 percent of the 85 million cast. 
In 14'states carried by President 
Reagan, Anderson's vote was larger 
than the margin by which Reagan 
defeated then-President Carter. 

Carpentry 101 
Sorin junior Mark Peeler saws away at his loft. Most students are still busy constructing their rooms, but the final blows ofhammers and twisting ofscrews is just around the corner as most room con­struction must be completed by this weekend. Then, finally, one will be able to walk down the hallway without having to run an obstacle course. 
THE STUDENTACTIVITIES BOARD'S 
SERVICE COMMISSION 
ANNOUNCES: 
STEPAN MALL 
All Day Today and Tomorrow from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
All The Items Your Room Needs to Look Fantastic 
REFRIGERATORS-RUGS-FURNITURE -AND A GREAT NEW CALENDAR­
THE STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE 
TONITE FROM 6 p.m. TO 12 p.m. IN LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
Buy Your Books AtBetterPrices!I 
~i~~~_() l_._llt w_ed-n-~d-ay_,A_ug_u_st-29-,1-98-4--pa-ge-7 
SEX, DRUGS, AND ROCK ~N~ OOL~. 
W~~T KI~D Of VALULS 
ARt T"OSt? 
1 SAY WL 60 BACK TO t"L OLD VALULS. 
WI~~. WOM~N, 
AND SON&. 

Recently, I found myself being berated by the irrate mother of a former roommate. It seems she took exception to the column I wrote for the freshman orientation issue, in which I sought to orient our fine freshman 
David G. Grote 
speaking out of turn 
I found myself paralyzed in the face of the onslaught by this normally sweet and guarded lady. Eventually, though, the shock of the con­frontation began to wear off as my sensory limbs began to freeze up and exercise them­selves. 
class to the university behind the Notre Dame Mystique; a university governed by a manipulative, politically oriented administra­tion locked into an academic mediocrity ofits own choosing. 
Reagan is pleased to announce • • • 
Once my wife and I had a young scholar to dinner. His wife is Italian. and his first name is Dominic, which obviously confused another guest, who flamboyantly started telling Polish jokes. I intervened before there was mayhem. 
Garry Wills 
outrider 

lbe last name my other guest had not caught is a Polish one. 
Not that that was any excuse for the second guest, who was never invited back. jokes whose basic premise is the intellectual in­feriority of an entire people do not excuse themselves from that large ao;sumption by little niceties ofstructure or performance. 
'Ibis is a truth Ronald Reagan never grasped, as he proved in 1980 by telling a duck joke 
based on two premises, that Italians arc a) stupid, and b) dishonest. Because the press overheard him tell this inexcusable joke, with gusto and to noisy reaction, Reagan made up an improbable excuse, that he only told it in order to condemn it. The president of the United States is feasted in many places with low standards; but there is one household, at least, for which he does not qualify. Let him go tell jokes with that other boor who visited us. 
So we come to his latest "joke." This· one was not even funny, though the defense ofit is true, if irrelevant. Of course he did not mean it. Meaning is a problem for him. The offensive thing here, as in jokes about ethnic inferiority, is the assumption of a shared premise, in this cao;e, that Russia is a problem we would all like to see abolished. Reagan said he was "pleased" to announce that he had "outlawed" Russia with bombs. Here the premise is not the intel­lectual inferiority of one whole group of people, but the undesirability of their very 
Sick humor? Self-revelation? Bad taste? In­sensitivity? Political gamesmanship? It was all of those, in varying degree. The most reveal­ing thing is that Reagan himselfdoes not know it was any of those things, in any degree. As there actually are people who do not realize that it is not funny to joke about the Holocaust (heard any good Holocaust jokes recently?), there are those, more of them, alas, who do not know there is nothing funny about the possibility offuture holocausts. 
We should not take Reagan seriously, his best friends will say, bringing forward a defense that was always the sanest approach to the man. If Europeans see nothing but the ominous in what Reagan calls humorous, that is just because they are not "with it." We should loosen up a bit, and decide that noth­ing is serious in Reagan's life, not even the death of a nation. 
(C) 1984 Universal Press Syndicate
existence. Some premise. 

The Olympics and S.Africa 
What wao; the single most important event this summer? Yeah, the Olympics, but on the other sideof the globe a key political figure made a very important trip. 
P. W. Botha visited eight countries in the first full-scale European tour by a South 
Santiago O'Donnell 
free-lance 

African Prime Minister in the last twenty years. 
Botha's government must break it's world political isolation in order to survive. His mis­sion wao; to convincenot only the European leadership, but the entire world, that South Africa is no longer a bloody racist regime. The Prime Minister's evidence includes the new South African constitution and peace treaties with Angola and Zimbabwe, two independent black neighbors. 
South Africa's new constitution does ex­tend limited political rights for the first time to Coloreds and Asians; but does not extend those same rights to the blacks who constitute 80 percent of South Africa's population, and while Botha's government has increased fun­ding for black education, the truth is that fun­ding for white education remains comparatively ten times higher. And that despite Botha's changes, the gap between blacks and whites in both housing and average income continues to widen. 
The peace treaties Botha signed came after five years of continuous penetrations by the South African army into Zimbabwe (formerly Rodhesia) and a massive invasion that stormed Angola in 1979; an invasion con­demned unanimously by the Security Council of the United Nations, with the exception of South Africa's weapon supplier and a major in­vestor, the United States. 
It is certainly understandable why these 
poor, weak countries would sign a treaty with 
the aggressive South African government, es­
pecially since Namibia, another black nation, 
continues to be occupied by the South African 
army. 

Botha, a Nazi supporter during World War II, gained two important advantages in signing these treaties: the cutting off of almost all ex­ternal support for his country's black 
nationalist movements, and a welcome recep­
tion from a Portuguese government pleased with South Africa's recent conciliation with the former Portuguese colonies. 
But while much attention centers on the blacks right of vote, more heinous violations of black rights continue. Police repression remains brutal and political prisioners are kept by the thousands. Families are separated and sent to different black "homelands", clumps ofdesert land on which they face pain­ful existences. Blacks who work in the cities face a daily naked exhibition before a bored white doctor, which is required for the valida­
tion of the identification passbooks blacks 
must carry at all times. 
Hopefully, the world will realize that little 
has changed in South Africa, that the social in­
justices ofits past leaders still remain, and that 
Botha's soapbox is made ofsand. 
It seems that the Olympics, afterall, was the 
most important event of the summer, if only 
because a racist South Africa was excluded. 
Santiago O'Donnell ts a sophomore tn the Arts & Letters College at Notre Dame. 
A mother's abuse 
Thinking rationally then, I realized that a counterattack on my part would not be in the best interests of my former roommate and held my tongue. Acourse ofaction that, being a nonconfrontataionary type of person, relished. 
The next day I wa~ informed that the former roommate had spoken out in defense of my opinions, much to his parents dismay. A simple editorial had spawned an emotional debate. 
That very night as I roamed through Senior Bar, I found students who both applauded and questioned my stance. One girl described me in terms befitting a bonafide folk hero. 
As editor of the Viewpoint department, I cannot help hut revel in the controversy and the stimulated debate which a Viewpoint edi­torial inspires. The reason behind it shows me that Viewpoint is realizing its mission to stim­ulate intellectual debate, to oppose social and moral injustice and to promote constructive change. 
The Viewpoint department at The Observer, in the past, has suffered from a lack of empha­sis, organization and idea-;. It is a relatively new department and one still in the building stage. 
Ifyou were here last semester you may have noticed some changes. The normal one-page Viewpoint was more often than not replaced by two and (on rare occasions) three pages. The regular weekly columns were augmented by an influx ofguest columns. And the letters to the editor were given emphasis. 
Viewpoint is commlted to being an arena in which students, faculty and administration can present their opinions and debate not only parochial campus issues but such topics as national politics, economics and social con­cerns as well. 
If you have an opinion that you feel a need to express, ifyou can express that opinion log­ically and clearly and ifyou can handle a mot· her's abuse, the Viewpoint page is the place for you to express that opinion. 
Editor's Note. • • 
The Viewpoint department is now putting together a schedule of regular columnists. If you are interested please stop in at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center or call 239-5303 and ask for David Grote. Viewpoint is also accept­ing guest columns and letters to the editor. These may be mailed to P.O.Box Q or hand delivered to our of­fice. Letters to the editor should be no more than l 50 words in length, well­written, and signed by the author. Guest columns should noyt exceed 600 words in length and must also be signed. The Observer reserves the right to edit all letters to the editor and guest columns. 
The Observer  Editorial Board  Department Managers  - 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief. .  . .. Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .  . .. Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller . .  . .... Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor.  Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager .  . .. Jeanie Poole  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor....  . ... Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager . ......... Jell O'Neill  
reflect the polic1es of the adm1nistrat1on of either 1nstitut1on. The news is reported as  News Editor .  . ........ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a major1ty of the Editorial Board. Commentanes, letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor.....  . Michael Sullivan  
present the vwws of thelf authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty. and the free express1on of varying opin1ons on campus. through letters.  Viewpoint Editor . . . . . Features Editor . . . . .  . . Dave Grote . ... Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
IS encouraged  Photo Editor. . . . . . .  . .. Pete Laches  

Wednesday, August 29, 1984 -page 8 
' 

Sports Briefs 
Football 

If Notre Dame football is your game and you are interested in trying to make the Learn as a walk-on, meet at the South Gate ofCartier Field today at 3:30p.m. SeeJoe Yonto. -The Obseroer 
Prospective baseball players, there will be an important organizational meeting for all those who would like to try out for the Notre Dame baseball team today in the ACC Football Auditorium at 5:30p.m. Please bring a pen orpencil to the meeting. ­The Obseroer 
The laCrOSSe team will have a meeting Sunday, Sep· tember 2, at 1 p.m. on Cartier Field. The meeting will be followed by a scrimmage, so come prepared to play. -The Obseroer 
Open volleyball tryouts will be held tomorrow and Friday at 3 p.m. in the ACC Pit. Anyone interested should come ready to play. For more information, call239-5143. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Women's Soccer 
Club will hold open practice today at 4 p.m., tomorrow at 4:30 
p.m. and Friday at 4 p.m. on the Stepan Fields. All are welcome. For more information, call Karen Moritz at 1293. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Rowing Clubwm be having 
an organizational meeting today at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune little Theater. All returning members should attend. New members are welcome. For more information, call Paul at 4115. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Water Polo Club wm 
have an organizational meeting for anyone interested. New mem­bers are encouraged to attend. The meeting will be at 10 p.m. Sun­day, September 2. Anyone interested but unable to attend should call Mike at 14 71. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club wilt hotd an 
organizational meeting tomorrow, August 30, at 7 p.m. in the 
LaFortune little Theater. All interested in playing must attend. No 
experience is necessary. If you have any questions, contact Clarke 
Keough at 3686 or Steve Schneider at 272-0828. -The Obseroer 
The ND-SMC Salling Club will have a meeting 
tomorrow, August 30, at 6:30p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall. The meeting is for all present members, especially officers. -The Obseroer 
The Off-Campus Soccer teamis now forming. 
Anyone interested in playing this fall should see Mike Tullio on Mon­day, September 3, on the first floor ofLaFortune from 12 to 4 p.m. or call him at 277·8491. -The Observer 
Stretchercise,a different kind ofexercise class featuring stretching and light exercise, is being offered by the Non-Varsity Athletic Office. The classes will be held Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:10 to 6 p.m. at ACC Gym 4, above Gate 3. Call the NVA office at 239-5100 for more information. -The Obseroer 
A scuba diving class is being offered by the NVA Office. The course will run for a period of six weeks and will award YMCA lifetime certification. To find out more about living under­water, come to the organizational meeting Tuesday, September 4, at 6 p.m. in Room 219 ofthe Rockne Memorial. -The Obseroer. 
The first Set Of deadlineShas I een announced by the NVA. September 5 is the deadline for registral on for the follow­ing sports: men's and women's interhall footba ', undergrad and grad-faculty singles tennis for men and women, un ergrad and grad­faculty mixed doubles tennis, co-ree softball, ; 1d the 16-inch softball slow pitch tourney. September 12 is the de~ lline for entries for grad touch football, men's soccer, co-ree water P• lo, and the golf tourney. -The Obseroer 
Deadline for signups for a windsurfing clinic that will be given at Saturday's NVA beach party at St. Joseph's Lake is 5 
p.m. tomorrow. The clinic will last two-and-a-half hours. Other events that will be held on Saturday are an innertube water polo tourney and a biathlon (half-mile swim followed by a two-mile run). Deadline for signups for each of these events is Friday at 5 p.m. You can enter at the NVA office in the ACC. -The Obseroer 
Aerobic classesfor both men and women begin on Sep­tember 5 and 6. Classes run from 4-4:50 p.m. and 5:10-6 p.m. on Monday and Wednesday. There will also be a class from 4-4:50 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Classes will be held in Gym 4 ofthe ACC (above Gate 3 ). Advanced registration is necessary. The cost for the classes is as follows: Students -$4 (halfsemester) or S6 (full semes­ter), Faculty and staff-513 (half semester or S25 (full semester). Register in the NVA office in the ACC. -The Obseroer 
continuedfrom page 12 
athlete, played with great intensity this spring, and has worked smoothly into a starting job. 
Putting pressure on the starters are two transplanted offensive players, ex-flanker Mike Haywood, now working at the cornerback po­sition, and ex-tailback Hiawatha Francisco, who has moved to free safety. The ability of these two players to successfully make the transition to defensive back, along with solid play from sophomores James Bobb and Scott Rogers at the strong safety position, will provide the Irish secondary with necessary depth for the upcoming season. 
Freshman Brandy Wells is still ad· 
justing to the cornerback position 
after moving over from free safety 
this summer. His playing time will 
increase as he grows more com­
fortable at his new position. 
"The defensive backs have made a lot of progress over the summer," noted Christoff. "Overall, they've improved upon several aspects of the game, such as their technique and mental toughness, but they have to show more consistency. That's what we're working towards." 
Notre Dame's opening game this season against Purdue will provide Christoff's secondary with an inter­esting test. In last year's season opener, also against the Boiler· makers, the Irish won in a rout, 52-6, but as Christoff is well aware, that score is misleading because Purdue turned the ball over seven times: In between the goal lines, the Boiler­makers riddled the Irish defense for 418 yards, 272 ofthose through the air. 
"We'll be prepared for almost anything against Purdue," said Chris­toff. "They are a very improved team, who moved the ball well on everyone at the end of last year. They have a potent offense, and al­though their strength last year was their running game, we'll be well prepared for them to pass." 
Now that Christoff has prepared 
the defensive backs, their job is clear 
-to go out on the field and prove 
themselves. 

The Observer Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts dassified advertising from 9 a.m. until -f p.m., Monday through friday. The Obsert•er Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, a~-cepts classifieds from 12:50 p.m. until .~ p.m.. Mon· day though friday. Deadline for next-day dassified~ is .~ p.m. All classified~ must be prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 ~-ents per tlve charac·
Classifieds 
ters er day. 


NOTICES  ~-FO_R_R_EN_T~~~~--FO_R_S_A_LE~  NEEDED! FOOTBALL TIX FOR THE PENN STATE GAME. CALL VINCE AT 1233.  Marc needs ride to DETROIT on Friday.. please call 4141 HEY OBSERVER COPY EDITORSIII  N.D.A.A. N.D.A.A. Chicago Field Trip Sign upa on Thura. Aug. 23  
NEED  ONE  PURDUE  STUDENT  Please contact Dan or Sarah so that we  In lobby of H•yea-Healy  
Here lies the Notre Dame student of yes· terdey, now extinct. If you think of it, have a Coke for him.  Student Housing. Rated Superior. Clean. High security. smoke alarms, laundry, utilities. $110/mo. NE side. 291-1405  1980 AUDI 4000-EXCELLENT SHAPE, GOING CHEAP, 232-0265 1976 VW RABBITI For Sale, Must Sell  TICKET. CALL BILL AT 2129. NEEDED: 4 GA FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL ANNE 2822  can set up a schedule for this year. Don't be shy, we're anticipating a fun-filled, action-packed year. So call us now. You won't want to miss a minute more.  7:30A.M. ONLY 44 SPOTS! Bring $10 to algn upa  
Are you in need ol FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? LeaderShip Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) IN '84-85 there will be no parties but there will be THE BADLANDS THE IIADLAHDS The place to be. New8 Department: Copy Editors and As­sistllnt News Editors, please call Dan or Sarah so they can organize this year's schedule. Thanks. FANT ASTICI Drink Premium Wine for just Pennies per dey and make $2()()-300 per week showing others how. Free details, American, Box 1355-Y, Albany, GA 31702. EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 alter 5:30 ································································ LOST/FOUND I  HOUSE FOR RENT; 4-5 BDRM, WALKING DISTANCE TO NO. BATH AND HALF EXCEPTIONALLY CLEAN. LG LIVING AM/KITCHEN. $93.75 PER STUDENT PER MO PLUS UTILITIES. PH 287-7178 ENAD Nonsmok'n STUDENT TO SHARE APT: $234/M. inc. heat A/C, util, fireplc., lakevw., pool, tennis, sauna. 3 Mi.from N.D. 256-6676 Eve's Furnished House· Just became available -5 bdrm, 2 beth $350 per mo. Call 277­3461 or collect 616-445-8283 WANTED SOPHMORESI Interested in becoming an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239­6264) GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16, 559-$50, 553/yr. Now hiring. Your area. Call 805­687-6000 Ext. R-9834.  Good Condition.895.00 or Best Offer. 684-4621 in Niles, evenings. Olympia typewriter model XL 12 electric portable, with case. Excellent cone!. $120. Call between 7-9 p.m. 239-7261. au-size sofa-sleeper $180, Lamp 3-way $20, 2·Easy Chairs $100 each. Call233­0101. FOR SALE: Brown plaid love seat, $75.00; Velvet celery green chair, $50.00. Good condition. , 239-5930 281-9644 FtwS.Ie Large green shag carpet, $30.00 Large blue carpet, $35.00 Ca/1277-0254 TICKETS I NEED 2-4 TIX FOR THE MISSOURI  PERSONALS MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $2o-200 stu· dent loans Due in 30 Days 1/ Interest Open 11:30·12:30 M-F Basement LaFortune P•ndonl'• welcomes back students. We can help you with all your school needs. Textbooks at 25 percent off, paperbacks, reference materials, posters for your room. We're at 937 Sooth Bend Avenue. Stop in and save big. Charlie, Paul, Nick, Stan, Dan, Bob, Brian, Potter, Pete: Skid Row is back and we're baUer than ever. We're disgusting and we LOVE IT!! OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BlOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. ATIENTION ALL RETURNING OBSERVER PHOTOGRAPHERS. PLEASE CONTACT THE OFFICE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. WE NEED TO KNOW YOU ARE STILL OUT THERE.  Typists and Day Editors: How was your summer? If I haven't talked to you yet, give me a call at 1479 and let me know. At the same time, I can make sure everything's O.K. with your schedule. Thanx. Tom Mowle BASSIST NEEDED FOR GARAGE BAND; MARXIST BACKGROUND HELPFUL. DAVE 3155 LET'S GO FOR A WALKII... HI MOM DID YOU NOTICE that not only did a cer· lain midwestern Catholic institution of higher learning raise the price of soda In its vending machines in the spring, but it also hiked the price live more canta during the summer? Thought you -e going to get one by us, didn't you? And those little signs saying all the money goes to offset academic costs don't fool us either. It's no wonder evertxxty wants to drink beer. It's cheaper!  Holy Spirit, who explains everything to me, who lights my paths so that I may reach my goal. Who gives me the gifts of forgiving and forgetting all my trespasses and who is with me every instant of my life. I wish in this short dialogue to thank you for every thing and confirm once more, that I never want to seperate myself from you, although the material illusion may seem baUer, I wish to be with you and all my dear beings in perpetual grace. I thank you for your mercy for me and mine. TEXAS CLUB: Be prepared for an· nouncements in this space. HEY MARIPATI HEY MEUNDAI WELL IT WAS GREAT TO SEE YOU AND "PLAY" FOR A FEW (PERHAPS TOO MANY, MEL???) DAYS ... AND TO POUND THOSE BEERS ... WHAT CAN I SAY, YOU TWo-t'LL REALLY MISS VA'••• THERE WILL ALWAYS BE A PIECE OF FLOOR FOR YOU TO CRASH ON IN D.C.-SO HOW 'BOUT THAT ROADTRIP??? I'LL SEE YOU FOR A GAME OR TWO. AND GIRLS, LET'S TRY TO BE GOOD THIS SE­MESTER .... REMEMBER THE DE'"INI­TlON OF GOOD IS RELATIVEIIIIIII  
LOST WALLET WITH MY MONEY AND ID's-NEED DESPERATELY CALL PAT 277-6464 REWARD!'!!  WANTED: Female roommate to share living expenses in furnished house. 10  GAME!!!!!! CALL MARIPAT AT 277·2581 OR239-7471. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  THERE WILL BE A MEETING THIS THURSDAY AT 7:30 IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE FOR All RE·  And while we're on the subject-How much of your tuition increase do you think went to pay for those cute green folders they  BYE ... LOVE, USA  
minut88 from cempus. $150.00 includes  TURNING PHOTOGRAPHERS. APPLI­ put your 1.0. card in? And while we're  Some men never listen;  
FOUND: IN FRONT OF INFIRMARY ON  utilities.  CATIONS ARE AVAILABLE FOR NEW  complaining about I.D. cards-Why green?  Others never learn.  
SATURDAY MORNING A GOLD LOOP  239-5930  NEED 2GA AIR FORCE TIX AND 1STU­ PHOTOGRAPHERS IN THE OFFICE.  We had that a couple of years ago. It's•  
EARRING. CALL STEVE AT 1163 TO  291·9644  DENT OR GA PENN STATE TICKET.  FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CALL  time for a new color. How 'bout red? And  -Ganeata  
IDENTIFY.  CALL LARRY AT 283-2015  PETEAT2453.  why is everybody looking off into space?  

---·---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, August 29, 1984 -page 9 
White Sox fall to Toronto 
Cubs sweep Reds by 5-2 scores 
!National League 

Assoclated Press 
CHICAGO Keith Moreland cracked two doubles and a single and drove in two runs to lead Chicago to a S-2 victory over the Cincinnati Reds )'esterday and give the Cubs a sweep of their doubleheader. 
Chicago, the National League East leader, won the first game S-2, be­hind Moreland's homer, triple and four RBI. 
The Cubs pounded Frank Pastore, 
3-8, for four hits and three runs in 
the first inning of the second game. 
Ryne Sandberg began the rally with a 
one-out solo homer, his 17th. 
In 3 1-3 innings, Pastore was 

charged with eight hits and five runs. 
Bob Owchinko entered the game 

with the bases loaded and walked 
Ron Cey on four straight pitches, 
forcing in Thad Bosley. 
The Reds knocked out Dick Ruth­
ven, 4-9, in the sixth inning, when 
Ron Oester homered, Dave Parker 
walked and Cesar Cedeno doubled. 
Wayne Krenchicki then lofted a 
sacrifice fly to make the score 5-2. 
In the first game, Moreland hit a 

homer and a triple, knocking in four 
runs for the Cubs. 
Winner Dennis Eckersley, 8-7, 

pitched 6 I-3 innings and gave up 
nine hits and two runs before getting 
relief help from George Frazier. 
Loser Andy McGaffigan, 3-6, gave up 
five runs in six innings before 
leaving for a pinch hitter in the top 
of the sixth. 
The Reds took a 2-0 lead in the 

first inning, but the Cubs roared 
back with four runs in the bottom of 
the inning. 
NEW YORK -Walt Terrell's six-hit pitching, Mookie Wilson's two-run homer and Hubie Brooks' two-run triple led the New York Mets to a S-1 victory last night over the Los An­geles Dodgers. 
Despite the triumph, their third in a row, the Mets dropped S.% games behind the Chicago Cubs in the bat­tle for the National League East lead. The Cubs swept a double-header from Cincinnati. 
Terrell, 10-10, pitched eight in­nings, struck out four and allowed two walks. Jesse Orosco pitched the final inning, fanning three batters. 
Rick Honeycutt, I 0-8, pitched six innings in absorbing the loss. He allowed three runs on nine hits, struck out two and walked one. 
The Mets scored three times in the fifth inning as Terrell singled and scored on Wilson's eighth homer of the season. Kelvin Chapman fol­lowed with a double and made it 3-0· when Keith Hernandez singled. 
ATLANTA -A bases-loaded triple by Darrell Porter in the IOth inning broke a 2-2 tie last night and gave the St. Louis Cardinals a S-3 victory over the Atlanta Braves. 
After the Braves tied the game in the eighth, George Hendrick ignited the winning rally with a single against Gene Garber, 2-3, the Braves' third pitcher. Pinch hitter Steve Braun singled, chasing Garber. David Green then beat out an infield hit against Donnie Moore, loading the bases. Porter cleared them with a shot to left-center. 
Bruce Sutter, 5-4, picked up the victory In relief. 
joaquin Andujar hurled six strong Innings for the Cardinals, allowing just five hits while walking none. Rick Camp went the first eight for Atlanta, yielding two runs on nine hits. 
PHILADELPHIA -Sixto Lezcano and AI Oliver had two hits apiece and Lezcano drove in two runs in a seven-run second inning last night to lead the Philadelphia Phillies to an 
11-8 victory over the San Diego Padres. 
Shane Rawley, 7-3, worked six in­nings to get the victory. AI Holland, who surrendered Terry Kennedy's lOth home run, pitched the ninth to collect his 28th save. 
The Padres took a 3-0 lead in the first, as Alan Wiggins and Tony Gwynn started it with singles. Steve Garvey singled home Wiggins, and Kevin McReynolds followed with a single to load the bases. Carmel<> Martinez added a sacrifice fly and Luis Salazar a run-scoring double. 
American League 

TORONTO -Damaso Garcia's one out double in the 11th inning scored Tony Fernandez from first base and gave the Toronto Blue jays a 7-6 vic­tory over the Chicago White Sox last night. 
Fernandez lashed a single to right and Garcia then stroked his double over the outstretched glove of left fielder Ron Kittle. 
Bryan Clark, 1-l, the fourth Toronto pitcher, went one inning to earn the win. Ron Reed, 0-S, Chicago's fourth pitcher, took the loss. 
A run-scoring single by George Bell off reliever Britt Burns and pinch-hitter Jesse Barfield's two-run homer off . Bert Roberge in the seventh had lifted the jays to a 6-6 tie. 
After falling behind 1-0 in the first on Bell's RBI single, the White Sox parlayed three hits and two Toronto errors into a 3-1 lead in the second. Singles by Roy Smalley and Julio Cruz and Willie Upshaw's fielding 
Detroit 
Toronto 
Baltimore 
New York Boat on Cleveland Milwaukee 
Mlnneaota KanaaaCity Calllornla Chicago Oakland 
Texas 
Seattle 
Baseball AMERICANLEA~E~ andings 
Eaat NATIONAL LEAGUE w L Pet. GB Eaat 87 45 .659 -w L 75 56 .573 11.5 Chicago 78 
53 

71 60 .542 15.5 New York 
72 58 70 61 .534 16.5 Philadelphia 71 
58 68 53 .519 18.5 St. Louie 
65 65 59 74 .444 26.5 Montreal 64 68 55 77 .417 32 Pitllburgh 56 75 
W•t Weet 
69 62 .527 -SanD/ego 76 55 65 66 .496 4 Houlton 
68 65 64 67 .489 5 Atianta 65 66 61 69 .469 7.5 Loe Angeles 
63 69 61 72 .459 9 Cincinnati 
54 76 58 73 .443 11 San l;ranciaco 
53 77 57 75 .432 12.5 
Y•-Y'IRIISulta 
Texas 6, Kansas City o Chicago 5, ClnclnnaU 2, let {lllme Toronto7,Chicago6, 11/nninga Chicago 5, Cincinnati 2, 2nd game Cleveland 8, Milwaukee 5 San Francisco 3, Montreal 2 Minnesota 2, Boe1on 1 New York 5, Loe AngeiiiS I California 4, Baltimore 2 Philadelphia II, San Diego 8 
Detroit 5, Seattle 4 St. Louis 5, AUanta3 Oakland4, New York3, 12/nnlngs Houston 3, Pltlllburgh 2 
Pet. Gl 
.595 ­.564 5.5 .550 6 .500 12.5 .492 13.5 .427 22 
.580 ­.511 9 .496 11 .477 13.5 .409 22.5 .408 22.5 

error on Rudy Law's grounder scored the Chicago runs. 
MILWAUKEE -JoeCarter belted a three-run homer and drove in four runs, powering the Cleveland Indi­ans to a 7-S victory last night over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
Carter's home run, his seventh of the season and third in the last two games, came on an offspeed pitch from Bob McClure, 4-6. 
With the score tied 2-2, Chris Bal)do opened the fifth with a single to right and Tony Bernazard reached first on a fielder's choice when Bando beat the throw to second. 
McClure retired the next two bat­ters before Carter tagged a 1-l pitch over the left-field fence for a S-2 lead. 
Robin Yount led off the sixth with a triple and scored one out later when Mark Brouhard stroked his sixth homer to chase Neal Heaton, 9-I3, and cut the margin to 5-4. 
The Indians went up 7-4 In the seventh when Brett Butler doubled, stole third and came home on Julio Franco's single. Carter's double then drove in Franco. 
MINNEAPOLIS -Minnesota rookie Kirby Puckett led off the ninth in­j ning with a triple and scored on Tom j Brunansky's single to give the Twins a 2·1 victory over the Boston Red Sox last night. 
l 
The victory enabled first place 
Minnesota to gain a full game on 
Kansas City in the West. The Twins 
now lead the Royals by 4 games. 
Puckett led off the ninth with a triple into the left field gap. Bob Stanley, 7 -I 0, retired Tim Teufel on a line out, then intentionally walked Mickey Hatcher and Kent Hrbek. Brunansky's shot down the third 
base line scored Puckett. 
Ron Davis, 6-9, earned the victory by retiring two Boston batters in the top of the ninth. 
Jim Rice bounced into his 32nd double play in the fifth with runners on first and second and no out.~. That equaled the American League record set by another Red Sox out­fielder, Jackie Jensen, In l9S4. 

EVEN STRAIGHTliS CAN'T HELP IF YOU FWNK TUITION. 
Today, the toughest thing about going to college is finding the money to pay for it. But Army ROTC can help-two ways! 
First, you can apply for an Army ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition, books, and supplies, and pays you up to $1,000 each school year it's in effect. 
But even if you're not a scholarship recipient ROTC can still help with financial assis~ tance-upto$1,000 a year for your last two years in the program. 
For more information, contact your Professor of Military Science 
ARMY ROTC. 
BEAUlOU CAM BE. 

CALL: LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman at 239-6264 

Now looking for experienced Cocktail Waitresses and Door Men Apply in person: Mon. thru Thurs. 1-5 p.m. 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
e Responsible for all Saint Mary's sports coverage. 
esmall salary based on the number of articles submitted about Saint Mary's athletics. 
Assistant Sports Editor 
e Must have a thorough knowledge of all Notre Dame sports. 
e Responsible for sports briefs and for filing sports material. Paid position. 
Submit application and a personal statement to Mike Sullivan by 5 p.m. Friday. For more information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer Wednesday, August 29, 1984 -page 10 
···················~ 
Attention Freshmen! 
There will be an organizational meeting for all freshmen in­terested in writing sports for The Observer this Thursday at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. Whether you are in­terested in journalism or just want to get involved in the athletic department, sportswriting could prove to be a rewarding experience. All interested students, both at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, are welcome to attend. 
...................... 
A CHALLENGE . 
No one ever said delivering 
The Observer would be easy. It's a 
tough job, and we need a talented 
person to take on the challenge. 
If you would like to deliver The Observer 
on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. 
call Jeff at 239-7471. 
Student Ticket Distribution 
Juniors and all undergrads in ninth semester or higher Today at Gate 3 from 3 to 8 p.m. Sophomores, Grad students, and Law students Tomorrow at Gate 3 from 3 to 8 p.m. 
NCAA 
continuedfrom page 12 
., ofantitrust laws. 
t 
On September 15, 1982, Federal District Court Judge Juan Burciaga upheld the challenge, ruling that each university did indeed have the right to negotiate its own television contract. He also ruled that the NCAA cannot require member colleges to assign their rights to it. 
t 
The NCAA appealed the decision. The appeal was rejected by a Curcuit Court of Appeals, but, on 
t 
July 21, 1983, Supreme Court Justice Byron White granted the 
NCAA a stay of the decision while the court considered the situation. 
The flood gates opened this summer, though, when the entire Supreme Court elected not to take on the case. 
The Supreme Court's decision was almost anticlimactic. Both sides had already began preparing for the news that the present television package was invalid. The CFA, which had been growing in membership and power rapidly, attempted to form a coalition with the Big Ten and Pac-1 0, the only major conferences which had not yet joined the CFA. The two conferences decided to stick with the NCAA plan. 
The situation would have been confused if the decision had been a surprise, but, with the schools getting a running start, the atmosphere h"as been one of chaos. The two sides quickly signed contracts with the major networks for far less money than they were receiving before. With the two sides competing against each other, the exclusivity that allowed for big paychecks from ABC and CBS was 
no longer available. 
At the present time, the situation does not look promising. The Big Ten and Pac-10, as well as the smaller colleges, are upset with the CFA for breaking up the profitable NCAA package. They accuse the big­time football teams of the CFA of acting out of greed and blame them for the chaos that has resulted. 
How much greed had to do with the court action is not known, but 
t 
r t 
TYPING 
*Term Papers *Resumes •Letters *Manuscripts 
*Word Processing 
Call Chris At: 
234-8997 

the CFA continuously insists that it was acting in the best interest of college football. 
"... It was realized that the time had come when college football must stand on its own merit and not continue to be 'subsidized' through an ultra-conservative and restrictive plan," wrote Sweazy. He also claimed that the CFA plan would be of great interest to the television viewer, would be economically advantageous to the networks and cable companies, and would "be in the. best interests of college football." 
Until the two sides get together and begin negotiating with the networks as one entity, the situation is going to continue to be detrimental to all involved. A truce seems to be a season away, though. Just recently, the BigTen and Pac-1 0 filed a suit against the CFA, ABC-TV, 
Notre Dame and Nebraska involving 

MINGLE MINGLE MINGLE MINGLE MINGLE MINGLE MINGLE MINGLE MINGLE MINGLE 

RETURN OF _i.~LJ· BEE~JNIGHT 29I 
9-3a.m. r­
1'1'1 3'19NIK 3'19NIK 3'19NIK 3'19NIK 3'19NIK 3'19NIK 3'19NIM 3'19NIK 3'19NIK 3'19NIK 
LAUGH LAUGH LAUGH LAUGH LAUGH LAUGH LAUGH LAUGH LAUGH LAUGH LAUGH 
:z: Try Our New Frqzen Drink Machine!! 
9-3 a.m. Frozen Margarita Special! 
~T 30~ 
= 

H9fiVI H9fiVI H9fiVI H9fiVI H9fiVI H9fiVI H9fiVI H9fiVI H9fiVI H9fiVI H9fiVI 
TALK TALK TALK TALK TALK TALK TALK TALK TALK TALK TALK TALK TALK TALK 

* * COCKTAIL PARTY * * 
G&Ts and Imports -Come early and join the fun 5-3a.m. 
31 

)I'JVJ. )I'JVJ. )I'JVJ. )I'JVJ. )I'JV.1 )I'JVJ. )I'JVJ. )I'IVJ. )I 'IV J. )I'JVJ. )I'JVJ. )I'JVJ. )I'JVJ. )I'JVJ. 
i: PARTY PARTY PARTYPARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY !:~_RTY ~ s PIG ROAST 7.·30-3 a.m. 1 ~ 
• Sponsored by Senior Class < AJ.HVdAJ.HVdAJ.HVdAJ.HVdAJ.HVdAJ.HVdAJ.HVdAJ.HVdAJ.HVdAJ.HVdAJ.HVd 
COMING UP: September 10-14 Willie Nelson Concert Ticket Raffle *Entry blank with every frozen drink purchased* 
2 FORMS OF 10 REQUIRED 

telecasts of games between teams from the opposing sides. 
Fortunately, both sides realize 
that a truce is going to be a necessity 
in the future. 
"My hope for the future," writes Sweazy, who represents the hard­line CFA view, "is thin all concerned parties will set personalities, personal biases and self interests aside and work cooperatively toward the betterment of college football." 
Assuming nearly every school will make less this year than in the past few years, it would be a reasonable guess that the two sides will put aside their differences and work together after the season is over. 
Tomorrow: The actual television deals. More games, but less money for the schools. 

Welcomes 
You 
Back With ••• 
I
' 
I l 
~ 
t 

____-------=-----~_---_---~=1 
T0 day_____________________
w_e_d_n_e_s_d_a_y_,A_u_g_u_s_t_2_9_._1_9_8_4__p_a_g_e_l_l 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 

Campus 
fOR I, WRITCR fOR
'BR/Eff.'t, I PAU5£P 

··~/TAN"M1'6AtrJ€,
8Ef(JRf 711£ IKJTE~ /{@!' 

WAS ONlY lriOffe(fS .'MY 
~II£ WHISI'CR£[7, A5 I FROM Mf£TTN& 111£ MY!frfl/0115 
filKIN611111£ 111 COtUCT MY 

HfJ./.0 &AZ!PI/f' INW 
ANP ~Y5ro!l. PIEP PIPER OF 

•9 a.m.-'5 p.m. -Stepan Mall Furniture Sale, Stepan 
HI~ €Ye5. ~ 
1HEMU51C 
IN/1WT/iY...• 

Center, sponsored by Student Union Activities Board. 
•8 p.m. -Program of Liberal Studies Student/Faculty Meeting, featuring a talk by Prof. Walter Nicgorski on "The Uberal Arts and the Power of Powers," library Lounge. 
TV Tonight 



noonesbury 
6:00p.m. 
... coming October 1 
6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 
Gary Larson 

7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 10:00p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 12:30a.m. 1:00a.m. 

28 VP in '53 29 Tarnish, as a reputation 30 Competing " 31 Actress Verdugo 32 The -Sisters 

"My word, Frank ... Sound• like you're coming down with one hock of a cold." 

collegiate crossword 
3 Scottish caps
ACROSS 41 First-rate 4 Romeo or Juliet,

42 Word of warning
I French head e.g.
43 Compass point
5 Basketball move 5 Party supporter 10 Raise -6 "-corny as ...
44 Former Time Magazine
14 October's birth­7 Certain doc
"Man of the Year"

stone 8 Newspaper section;, 37 "-Story"
(2 wds.} 

for short 39 Of ancient W. Italy
49 To be announced: 
45 Casino words
15 One-celled animal abbr. 

9 Washington seaport
16 '50s song, e.g. 
I 0 Dairy product

(var.} 46 Adventurous
50 Grecian -(2 wds.} 
47 Assam silkworm
17 Republican election 

51 Classroom need 11 Oppos i te a f 
48 Invalidates
nightmare (2 wds.} 

55 Stupid aweather 
51 The Odyssey, for
20 Tyrants 

59 Party meeting of 12 -fixe
21 Tennis tournament one 
sorts (2 wds.} 13 The Big Apple's 
52 Ceremonial garment
favoritE' (2 wds.} 
finest (abbr.}

61 Footnote abbrevi-53 Put -on
22 Mr. Whitney 

at ion (cover up}
23 Common tattoo word 

62 Miss Comaneci 63 Neon ­
54 Dermatological mark 

24 House of -64 Yield 18 Mr. Porter 
55 "I cannot tell 
00

33 Be human 65 Inexperienced 19 "Out, damned-... " 
34 Inter-(Lat.} 66 Oo in, as a dragon 24 Part of some 56 Suffix for poet 
35 Mr. Waggoner newscasts 57 Legendary Roman 
36 Eat -DOWN 25 Diamond bungle king 38 Undeliverable mail 26 Lying flat 58 Catch sight of or water sprite I Mary -Lincoln 27 Omit in pronun­
60 Suffix for block 

-ciation 
16 22 46 16 22 16 22 16 16 16 22 
46 16 46 16 46 16 22 46 16 22 46 22 46 
16 16 22 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News 
M0 A0 S0 H Family Feud Double Trouble Crossroads jennifer Slept Here 
Facts of Life CBS Wednesday Night Movie "The Gentleman Bandit" Lester Sumrall Teaching P.O.P. Voice ofTruth St. Elsewhere Today with Lester Sumrall NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Calvary Temple 
Tonight Show 
U.S. Open Highlights Everlasting Gospel CBS Late Movie "Manitou" Kenneth Copeland Believer's Con­vention Late Night with David Letterman All in the Family Nightwatch 

40 Chicken 2 Fencing sword 
<!)Edward Julius 
HELP! 
COUNSELINE, the University of Notre Dame telephone tape service run by your Counseling and Psychological Services Center needs volunteers to handle the phones again. Thi~ semester, for a rewarding experience, 
please call 239-5486 or 239-7336 if you would like to volunteer, or stop by the Student Health Center, 3rd floor (Infirmary). 

WELCOME BACK Notre Dame Students 
from 
Beacon Bowl 

4210 Lincoln Way W. 234-4167 
located on US 20 by S.B. Airport Wakh/or 1110re •pedal• thl• year 
Observer Photo/Pete l..:.tches 

Hiawatha Francisco and Brandy Wells are two getting some work at cornerback. The secondary new faces in the Irish secondary this season. bas the necessary depth despite the loss ofstarters Francisco, a sophomore ex-tailback, bas moved to Stacey Toran and Chris Brown. Larry Burke's the free safety spot, while freshman Wells is story below. 
Confusion reigns as opposing sides battle over football telecast rights 
Editor's note: This is thefirst ofa groups to compete against each financially when the NCAA three-part story on the other. controlled the telecasts. repercussions ofthe Supreme Court It is a messy situation, to say the There were some problems, ruling that the NG4A 's control of least, but it would help to backtrack however. The NCAA placed a limit collegefootball television coverage and look at some of the events that on the number of times a school 
is illegal. led up to the present situation. 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Edt tor 
The summer of 1984 has seen American politics at its best. Not only are the Democrats and Republicans fighting each other for the highest office in the land, but now the sides have been marked off in the battle over television rights among the NCAA and its member schools. 

College Football on TV 

could appear on national and regional television, something that had drawn criticism over the past few years as some choice games have not been aired because one team had used up its allotment. The big-time schools were also concerned about the future of college football because the television ratings had been falling over the past several years. 
"If this (NCAA) plan would have 
been allowed to continue in effect, 
ratings would have undoubtedly 
As in the presidential election, For the past 30-plus years, the continued to decline because both-sides want basically the same NCAA has negotiated television audiences would have been less thing -the most exposure and contracts for all of its member interested in many of the games television money they can get-but schools. The agreements were very available for viewing, i.e., games politics are getting in the way. As it profitable -some schools would between lesser-known teams in stands now, neither side is going to have earned up to 5800,000 for a Division 1-A and games between get exactly what it wants primarily prime-time game this year. Big-time Division 1-AA and Division II teams," because it cannot work with the football schools like Notre Dame wrote Robert M. Sweazy, the Faculty other. and Oklahoma were not the only Athletic Representative at Texas 
schools to profit. Tech, a CFA school. 
The two sides in this television Division II and III schools also Two major football powers ­struggle are the 63-member College benefited from the NCAA's control Oklahoma and Georgia -finally Football Association, ofwhich Notre because part of the television decided to challenge the NCAA's Dame is a prominent part, and a package called for the Division II control of the telecasts. The schools coalition between the Big Ten and and III championships to be argued that the NCAA's actions Pacific-1 0 conferences. The televised. Division 1-AA games were constituted a monopoly in violation differences between the two are not also telecast regionally. In short, just 
see NCAA, page 10 great, but enough to force the two about every NCAA school benefited 
Johnson heads corps
! Secondary has depth despite losses 
By LARRY BURKE "What we lack is a tremendous played. A two-time letterman, Sports Writer amount of game experience. We'll Ballage led the Irish secndary in be counting on the linebackers and tackles last season at the weakside 
There will be some new faces in the defensive line to help out the cornerback position. the Irish secondary this season, but secondary." The other cornerback spot will be Notre Dame's defensive coordinator The man that Christoff will count assumed by sophomore Troy Wil­and secondary coach Andy Christoff on to provide leadership for the son, who had an excellent spring to is confident that his defensive back­young secondary is senior co­solidify a starting job. Wilson gained field can overcome their lack of captain Joe Johnson, a returning valuable game experience last game experience and provide the starter at the strong safety position. season, starting two games for the Irish with quality pass defense. A solid All-America candidate, Irish, while playing more minutes 
The loss of free safety Chris Johnson is the only senior in the than any other freshman in the sec­Brown and cornerback Stacey Irish defensive backfield. Johnson is ondary. 
• Toran, both starters last year, leaves one ofthe vocal leaders on the Notre Notre Dame without two quality Dame team, possessing outstanding The free safety position will be veterans. Christoff, however, is not quickness and big-play ability. taken over by sophomore Steve overly concerned -provided the The only other returning starter Lawrence, who saw action in six back four get continued support in the Irish secondary is cornerback games last year. The speedy from the players up front. Pat Ballage, a junior who started all Lawrence, an excellent all-around 
"I think we have very good talent twelve games last year and was see FOOTBALL, page 8 in the secondary," said Christoff. second on the team in minutes 
-------------~~-----------------­
Wednesday, August 29, 1984 -page 12 
Defense could be the only question mark 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 

Hello again, everybody! 
Yessiree, Bob, it's that time of year once again. While the nation 
has been reveling in the Chicago Cubs first pennant race since the 
Truman administration, the college football season has snuck up on 
us. With Notre Dame's season opener against Purdue at the Hoosier 
Dome in Indianapolis only I 0 days away,it's time to closely examine 
the prospects for the I984 edition ofGerry Faust's Fighting Irish. 
As in past years, the Irish look good on paper. Unfortunately, the 
last time I checked, Notre Dame will be confined to playing on grass 
and artificial turf instead of on paper. Nevertheless, a look at the 
personnel on this year's team gives one a good indication of why 
many of the "experts" expect the Irish to be one of the top teams in 
the country this season. 
Offensively Speaking... With I 0 starters returning on offense, 
the Irish should be able to keep the scoreboard workers busy. With 
so many fine players returning, it's tough to decide where to start, 
but when it's all said and done the folks who will get the glory or take 
the heat are the men in the backfield. 
The Backs -Last year, the Irish offense started and ended with 
Allen Pinkett, and he is likely to be a major factor in any success the 
offense has this season. However, Pinkett isn't the only quality player 
in the backfield. Look for offensive coordinator Ron Hudson to put 
the ball in the hands offullbacks Chris Smith and Mark Brooks much 
more often this year to cross up defenses keying on Pinkett. 
The man at the controls will be sophomore quarterback Steve 
Beurlein, who served his apprenticeship under fire last year. Now 
Beuerlein knows the job is all his, and he should display some confi­
dence and a fine throwing arm in leading the Irish attack. Still, capa­
ble backup Scott Grooms and a plethora offreshmen offreshmen are 
waiting in the wings should Beuerlein get injured or fail to perform. 
The Receivers -You would be hard pressed to find a better corps of 
receivers in the nation than Mike Stock's crew. The Irish have more 
speed on the outside thanJohn DeLorean. Beuerlein will have a host 
of targets in Joe Howard, Alvin Miller, and Milt Jackson, who will 
split time at flanker and split end. Mark Bavaro is one of the finest 
tight ends in college football, and he will be backed up well by Ricky 
Gray andJoel Williams. 
The Linemen -When you talk to any ofthe backs, they quickly tell you their success is dependent on the job done by the front line. If that's the case, the Irish are in good shape. Carl Selmer's line has more beef than Wendy's could ever hope to have. The quintet of Mike Perrino, Larry Williams, Mike Kelley, Tim Scannell, and Tom Doerger is a strong one indeed, and they are quite capable ofmaking some holes. If there is a problem in the offense, it may show if an injury occurs in this area, as depth is not a strong point. 
On the Defensive••.It seems horrible to say about a unit with 
seven starters returning, but defense is the question mark for the 
Irish this season. It won't do Notre Dame a lot of good to score 35 
points while giving up 36. Thus, defensive coordinator Andy Chris­
toff has been working hard on a new 3-4 defense. 
The Front Line -Only one starter returns to head this group, but 
nearly everyone on the depth chart can get the job done. Mike Gann, 
a three-year letterman, will anchor the left side, while 6-8, 278­
pound Wally Kleine and Greg Dingens will divide the duties at right 
tackle. If teams decide to go right up the middle, they will have the 
unenviable task ofhaving to run through Eric Dorsey or Mike Griffin. 
No thank you. 
The Linebackers -Notre Dame linebackers have a tradition of ag­
gressive play, and this year should be no exception. On the outside, 
Mike Larkin returns to hold down one side, while tri-captain Mike 
Golic takes care of the other spot. Meanwhile, Tony Furjanic and 
Mike Kovaleski return to handle the duties at both inside linebacker 
spots. 
The Deep Secondary-Fans in the lower seats may suffer from a stiff 
neck early in the season, as opposing quarterbacks will test this 
group, which has beendepleted by the loss oftwo starters, by throw­
ing often. Starters Joe Johnson and Pat Ballage return to the strong 
safety and right cornerback slots, respectively, but Troy Wilson and 
Steve Lawrence will have to prove themselves at the other two posi­
tions. 
Pray for no injuries here, because among the folks in the second 
unit, their experience in playing defensive back on a varsity college 
football team is summed up in one digit...O. 
Summing Up•.. Well, it seems there is no reason for the Irish not 
to improve enough to go to a major bowl this year. The schedule is 
not an easy one, but as experienced and talented as this team is, that 
should not present a problem. If the Irish can find the consistency 
that has been lacking in the last three years, it could be a pleasant 
season under the Golden Dome. Ifnot...l don't want to think about it. 
Pickofthe Week...Not only has the column returned for another 
year, but more importantly, the "Pick of the Week" is back. Once 
again, we'll focus on a non-revenue sports event during the week 
that should be interesting, and our first one is a dandy. 
Volleyball coach Art Lambert makes his Notre Dame debut Mon­
day night in the Auxiliary Gym of the ACC, as the Irish spikers host 
the powerful Purdue Boilermakers. It could be a tough season for the 
Irish, as they face a rough schedule with a relatively inexperienced 
squad. Nonetheless, it should be an exciting opening to the Irish 
sports season Monday night, and one you won't want to miss. 
--____________________. 





