DuLac Review -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 91 rhe i1Hkpende1H ~ll!dnll new..,papcr ....en ing nolrl dame and ...ainl man·.., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1984 

Callaghan sensed committee on alcohol policy to be secret 
By SARAH HAMILTON 
News Staff 
Student Body President Brian Cal­laghan admitted last night that he "had a good idea" he would not be ahlt· to report the proceedings ofthe Committee on the Responsible Use of Alcohol before he accepted a position on that committee. 
After a forum on "The Dry Campus Issue" last night with Father William Beauchamp, chairman of the alcohol committee, Callaghan stated that the confidentiality of the whole situation had been stressed. 
"It's been very difficult for me," Callaghan said, noting that he felt caught in "a Catch-22." As Student 
Body President, he said he has a responsibility to represent the stu­dents, yet he cannot inform them of alcohol policies being considered. Callaghan said, however, that if he were not on the committee, the stu­dents would lose a voice in the decision-making process. 
Callaghan said resigning from the 
committee was "an idea I've thought 
about." But, he added, "I think I can 
be more effective" by retaining a 
position on the committee. 
According to Beauchamp, Callag­han was selected for the committee by Provost Timothy O'Meara, as was most of the committ<:e. "Brian was appointed by the Provost as Student Body President, not as Brian Callag­han," he said. 
Concerning the confidentiality of the committee, Beauchamp said that no word was handed down from a higher authority. "We agreed amongst ourselves ...once we started considering al­ternatives ....We said this is to be between us." Defending the com­mittee's secrecy, Beauchamp repeated the stand he expressed during the forum. He said that the trustees asked to see the commit­tee's report before it was published and therefore nothing could be released until then. 
The format of last night's forum allowed for both Beauchamp and Callaghan to present opening state­ments. These were followed by a question-and-answer period with approximately 100 students who at­tended the first of the Accent Lecture series. 
Beauchamp said it would be "at least a question period, I don't know ifwe'll give answers or not." 
Beauchamp said that the alcohol issue centers around the whole 
drinking situation. including the problem drinkers" and the question of University liability but transcend­
ing both of these. "There is not a simple solution to it." 
One of the most discussed pos­sibilities was the idea of a 2 I campus, (a campus where no un­derage drinking is allowed). 
Callaghan opposes this idea. ''I'm against ·it. I think it would be inviting a lot more problems." 
In his opinion, the restrictions presented by a 21 campus policy would not do anything to improve the drinking problem. Callaghan said that he can support such restraints only after the whole social structure of the campus is changed. Callaghan advocates that the dorms no longer be the center ofsocial life. He suggested that the "stay hall" sys­tem might be abandoned to eliminate the "frat" images that have developed among the halls. In the stay hall system, residents are notre­quired to change dorms periodical­ly. 
Callaghan had earlier maintained that a 21 campus was "fine, but not really helping students ...you have to change attitudes." 
At the forum last night, Callaghan mentioned disciplinary measures against students who abused al­cohol, more social alternatives to 

see FORUM, page 3 

McGarvey named Scholastic editor 
By AMY STEPHAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Kathy McGarvey has been named editor in chief of Scholastic magazine for the 1984-SS school year. 
McGarvey, a junior Program of Liberal Studies major from Drexel Hill, Penn., sees the magazine as an "initiator of ideas rather than a reporter." She said she would like Scholastic to "challenge the in­dividual thoughtwise in both campus and outside concerns." 

"I see journalism as a respon­sibility and a creative endeavor. When used well it can really be a service to the community," said McGarvey. 
''I'll have a lot of help from some really good people on the staff," she said, adding that she is confident the new staff will produce "an excellent magazine next year." 
Excellence is a keyword for McGarvey, who plans to stress ex­cellence in writing and "the kind of thought and analysis that goes into 
it."  I  
McGarvey has  not  been  on  the  
Scholastic  editorial  staff  before,  

working as a reporter for the magazine this year. She spent her 
sophomore year in lnnsbruck, Austria, with the foreign studies program. 
"She impressed us with her com­petence," said Jim Ganther, current Scholastic editor in chief. "She is a very thorough reporter." 
Ganther said McGarvey's en­thusiasm and freshness of vision were important factors in her selec­tion. "I am very proud to have her as a successor, I think she's going to do a dynamite job," he said. 
McGarvey said she was unaware that the past threeScholastic editors in chief have been members of the charismatic renewal group, People of Praise, and doubts that the group had a significant impact on the magazine. 
According to Ganther, McGarvey will begin training for her new posi­tion immediately and will officially begin her term as editor April I. 
By BUD LUEPKE 
News Staff 

The Hall Presidents' Council gave Father Steve Gibson, rector ofCarrol Hall, the HPC Rector Award at its weekly meeting last night. 
"He (Gibson) was the obvious choice," said Mike Carlin, HPC chairman. Gibson was chosen for organizing freshmen howling trips, building a bar, remodeling the hall's kitchen, buying a pinball machine. and giving spiritual leadership with­in the hall. 
Each hall president was asked to submit a paper telling why his or her rector should receive the award. No one was obligated to submit an entry. A winner and four honorable mentions were chosen. The four are: Father William Borden, Pangborn Hall; Father Mario Pedi, St. Ed's Hall; Broth<:r Victor Grzeskowiak. Stan­ford Hall; and Father Eugene Gorski, Howard Hall. 
This is the first year of the HPC , Rector Awards. "We want to recognize the rectors for their work," said Carlin. "We are not criticizing any ofthe rectors." Carlin also said the purpose of the award was no! to motivate the rectors toward bettering themselves, al­though he said this could be an ef­fect. 
Also discusst:d at the meetmg was the possibility of subscribing to The ll?all Paper journal. a poster-like publication dealing with the job market and college lik. The hi­weekly publication is put out by the publishc:rs of Nutshell and American magazines. The Wall Paper journal, if accepted by the HPC, would appear in th<: dorms and LaFortune. Glass wall casings for the: journals would be provided by the: publishc:r. 
Karen Klocke, chairman of Mardi Gras Wt:ek, also announced that ac­tivities including a dance-a-thon and a board games nigh! will take place during Mardi Gras Week. March 6­
10. Mardi Gras Week hdps fund or­ganzations like (]LA and Logan Cen­ter. Klocke is asking thai each hall choose a charity for the week. 

Student, faculty leaders satisfied with input on alcohol 
Editor's Note: The following is the second in a series offour articles examining the role ofalcohol on the Notre Dame campus and proposals to implement a new alcohol policy. 
By CAROL CAMP 
Senior StaffReporter 
Despite allegations by some students that their views have not been adequately represemed, both student and faculty leaders maintain that the Administration has accepted outside input concerning possible changes in the alcohol policy. 
The Committee on the Responsible Use of Alcohol is considering recommending to the povost in April that underage drinking be barred on campus. 
"Any student who had something to say had a chance LO say it," said Mike Carlin, chairman ofthe llalll'residents CounciL 
Student Body President Brian Callaghan maintains that he and Carlin have been two of the committee's most outspoken members. 
"Mike and I have been two ofthe most vocal and probably most 'liberal' members." Callag­han said last wee t k. "We did not see the need for major rules changes." 
Callaghan said one reason that there has been dissatisfaction with this year's student leaders is that students fail to realize the necessity ofworking "within the system." 
He added, ' .'It's really difficult to take heat for something when you've represented the students as best you could. It's hard to take the rap when people who don't understand the committee'swork say, 'You're letting this hap­pen'." 
Callaghan said that a dry campus would "not heLp the (alcohol) problem. It would just shift it so that it would no longer be a Univer­sity burden. They wouldn't have to worry about the incongruities in their policies." 
Similarly, Callaghan sees a '21' campus as "fine, but not really helping students .... You have to change attitudes." 
???????????????????????????????????????????????????????
·•r·.
The ~~--•• 

---= ·· ·. .... ~leo hoi , • ._, Question 
??????'!???????????????????????????????????????????????? As an alternative, Callaghan has endorsed the HPC alcohol policy which would focus upon punishing individual students for drunkenness. He also supported the senate al­cohol policy which calls for improving al­cohol awareness on campus. Both policies were devised after the HPC and Student Senate received advice from meetings conducted in 16 dorms on campus. Consequently. Callaghan believes that "students have had more input than any other 
group." 
Carlin agreed with Callaghan. "We sent let­ters to 20 hall presidents, RA's and class of­ficers. We sent representatives of the commission to the dorms. If they're going to take anything away, it needs to be replaced with something else. The main focus has to be the social life on campus." 
In addition to seeking student opinion. rhe committee solicited the views offaculty mem­bers and rectors. Theresa Godwin Phelps, chairwoman ofthe Faculty Senate's student af­fairs committee, distributed a questionnaire to faculty members which asked for their views on the alcohol problem. 
The survey dealt with such topics as faculty members' perception ofstudent treatment of alcohol, the faculty's role in any change in Uni­versity policy and whether or not they believed that alcohol abuse was also a con-
see ALCOHOL, page 3 

.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, February 22,1984-page 2 
In Brief 

Notre Dame has officially suspended 
its five-year boycott of Nestlt: products, according to Father John Van Wolvlear. vice president of Student Affairs. The officers of the World Hunger <..:oalition, the student group which originally proposed the boycott, told Van Wolvlt:ar that they are satisfied with Nestle's agreement to comply with the World Health Organization's infant formula sales code. Notre Dame began the boycott Feb. 27, 1979. when 72 percent of the student body voted for removing Nestle products from the University Food Service organization. The studt·nts charged that the company's infant formula marketing practices in underdeveloped nations were responsible for thousands of infant deaths. In March, 1982, the students reaffirmed the hoycott in another referendum. Notre Dame's susptmsion will affect the two dining halls, vending machines, the Deli in LaFortune 
Student Center and the Huddlt:. -The Obsen1er 
A Flanner Hall sophomore lost approximately 
$20 to two men who accosted him in the student parking lot east of juniper Road at 8:4S p.m., Sunday. The student was treated for a minor cut on the forehead after he was struck by one of the as­sailants. The student told security officials he was returning to his hall from the parking lot when the two men approached him and demanded his billfold. They threw the billfold back after taking the money and ordcred the youth to sit down until they were out of sight. They rcportedly left in a southeastcrly dircction. The first as­sailant was described as five fcet-1 0 inches tall, about 16S pounds, white, and wearing a ski mask, cloth jacket, blue jeans and hiking boots. II is accomplice, also in his mid-20's, was described as six feet­twti irKhcs tall, about 21 S pounds, black, with medium length hair, wearing a brown leather jackct. -The Observer 
Of Interest 

So you want to be a class officer?There is a 
mandatory meeting tonight at 7 in the Lafortune Little Theater for those intt·rested in running for st·nior, junior or sophomore class oftkcr or otl-campus commissioner. Tickets for class officer include president, vice president, secretary and treasurer. -The Observer 
Martin Sheen and Helen Caldicott will 
star today and tomorrow in a double-feature vi9eo being shown in the LaFortune Little Theatre at 7:30 p.m. Sheen narrates "U.S. vs. 
U.S.S.R.." a .~0-minutc look at thc military competition betwecn the two supapowc:rs. Caldicott, from the Physicians for Social Respon­sibility, is fcawred in "Race to Oblivion," thc doctor's follow-up film to tht· medical documentary, "The Last Epidemic." The films, sponsored by Ground Zero, are free. -The Observer 
Students representing the Notre Dame/Saint 
Mary's Council for the Retarded will be collectingstudent tickets for tht· Marqucttc basketball game during dinner today through Friday. Thc tickets will be uscd to admit retarded children to the game. 
The Obsen•er 

The College ofBusinessAdministration, in associa· tion with the Centn for Continuing Education, is sponsoring a four­session course. "The Impact of Fedcrai Income Taxes on Business Ikcisions," and a two-day scminar on credit analysis. The tax course began yt·stt·niay and is conducted at 6:30 p.m. Tuesdays through Mard1 I5. Charting tht· constant changes in thc complex income tax structure. the t·ourst· is designed for owncrs or managers of businesse~ who want to take the confusion out of their tax planning. The credit analysis seminar on March I 'i and I 6 is designed for per­sons who want to umkrstand cash flow and prcpare cash budgets. Sessions will be conducted by Frank K. Reilly. dean of thc collegc, and_lames A. (icntry. professor oftlnann: at the:-University ofIllinois. They will hegin at H::'tO a.m. and continut· until 'i p.m. each day 
Tbe Obsen•er 

Applications for the CILA spring break service 
project in Wt·st Virginia art· now available at the Center for Social Concerns. Tht· trip will hc open to I 0 Notrt· Dame or Saint Mary's studcnts and will cost approximatdy S60 per pt·rson. Th<: applica­tions arc due today. -Tbe Ohser!'er 
Weather 

Another chance at spring today with mostly 
clt-ar skies and warmt-r tempcraturt·s through tonight. Highs in the 
low 'iOs. Lows in tht· low to mid 30s. Mostly sunny tomorrow. High 
in the upper ·lOs. -7be Ohsen•er 
The Observer 

Today's issue was product·d hy: 
The Ohserver (I ~I'!\ ~')'I l· tOOO l " puhlh.ht.·d .\tonda} rhrou);(h Frida' .1nll Production Consultant ........Steve Fostl'r on homt.· foolhall ~aturday~. t.·xn:pt D~silillliditor ......................... Susan O'Hara 
durin~ c:xam and vac.:alion pt.·riod!oo. The la)'<IU/ Staff...................................... <:amilk Observer •~ puhli~hc.·d hy tht.· 'llu.il-nt:o. of 1)"/J~S<·Iters ..................... Mi<·hdle,J~nnikr tht.· l 'nh'l'rsily or Notre: l>amt.· and Saint Copv Etlitor............................. Kt·vin Binger Mar~ ·!'I Collc:Mc.: Suh!'tc.:nptions nlJ} ht.· Sports Copy Editor... .. ........... Phil Wolf purdla!'tc.:d for li.!'; pt.·r )'l'Jf ( S I 'l (Wf Production Assistant................ Liz CarroiJ 
't.'fllt'!'tlc:r) b} writing 'fht.a Observer. NlJ Dt~)· Editor. ...................... Barb Stl'Vl'ns 
P.O. Box Q. Nntrt· Damc.lnLiiana ·.f6'i'lCl. SMC lJa)' lidilor........................)ody Radler 
The Observer i!'t J mt·mhc:r ofThe As· sodated Press. All rt.·prodm.:tlon ri~lll!\ oan· rc.·sc.·rvt'll. 

,--------, 
t Ihe= t t t =Obsener_Jt 
t t : would like to : t hear from you. t 
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t  t  
t t  Express your • •  tt  
t  oprnrons  t  

t through a letter t : to the editor: : t P.O.BoxQ t t Notre Dame, IN t 
t ---4~~---~ 
God, country, Notre Dame 
Every man sent out from a university should be a man of his nation, as well as a man of his time. 
Woodrow Wilson 
Margaret Fosmoe 
Managing_Editor 
Most ofus won't notice anything special about today. 
If today was Feb. 22, 1884, however, it would be 
quite memorable. Even as recently as 1 5 years ago, Feb. 

22 caused much ado under the Dome. 
For more than 120 years, the commemoration of Christmas that helped students to grasp the obligations George Washington's birthday at Notre Dame was of being a citizen. It was an annual formal acknowlege­surpassed in prominence only by the annual com­ment of the "God, Country, Notre Dame" carved in mencement exercises. Today it is remembered by a stone above the east entrance to Sacred Heart. lack ofmail on the previous Monday, ifit is remembered Notre Dame acquaints us well with the religious and at all. collegiate applications of that phrase. The national im­
Father Sorin initiated the annual Washington's pliScations are sometimes overlooked however. Beyond Birthday Exercises in 1849. Students were given a "The Star Spangled Banner" at football games, holiday (unheard of today) to honor not only Washing­nationalism is often viewed as a topic separate from uni­ton, hut America itself. Certain traditions evolved with versity life. Sorin would be appalled to learn tha~ the 
the celebration. The caps Fourth ofJuly -the day he and gowns of graduation 
choose for Notre Dame's were first worn on Washing­first commencement ex­ton's birthday. The senior ercises -is greete. with a class presented an American lack of fanfare and classes as flag to Notre Dame each usual for summer Isession year that was first flown on students. J commencement day. In Washington) age, Speeches were given, statesmen were ttfe most patriotic songs were sung talented and respected and plays were presented. members of the educated Since the 1880s, most of the class. In our own age they festivities centered in Wash­arc christened politicians ington Hall, which was ded­and view<:d with disdain. A icated to Washington and more maligned and ignored ornamented with paintings profession than modern from his life. politics is hard to imagine. 
The Father ofour country This is why the Washing­gained such recognition ton's Birthday Exercises largely though the efforts of werc allowed to die. the Father ofour University. Yet the declining reputa­It is said that when Sorin came to America, he knelt and tion of the politician is the best of reasons for continu­kissed the earth, symbolizing his adoption of this ing the tradition. Notre Dame needs an annual reminder country as his own. To Sorin, Washington represented of its duties as an American university. Every student all that was admirable in the American spirit. who leaves the University must have a firm sense of his 
Sorin was one of the most loyal public relations men obligations, not only to God and Notre Dame, but also the United States could have asked for. He required all to his country. his priests to learn and use English. American history No one but a student has such a broad field of was an important part of the early Notre Dame cur­knowledge with which to mend the tattered image of riculum. He traveled widely and purchased lands the American leader. If the blackencd view of the throughout the U!nited States. He, a French priest, was American political system is to be cleaned up, a link d<:termined to make Notre Dame a greatAmerican uni­must be reestablished between American scholarship versity. and American politics. Ifit is to be accomplished at all, it 
Certainly thcre have been American heroes to equal must be accomplished through the universities. George W ashington. There have been better presi­dents, better speakers, better statesmen. The Washing­
The views expressed in the Inside column
ton's Birthday Exercises were important to Notre 
are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­
Dame, not so much because of what t\le celebraStion represented for Washington, but what it represented sarily reflect the views of the editorial board for the University. The event was a sort of political or staff. 
YELLOW CAB 
offers the lowest rates in the city to and from N D/SMC and the airport. We have no intention of raising our prices! We also appreciate your business. Call233·9333. 
For your information, you can rent or check in Hertz rental cars and trucks at our location: 710 Niles Within walking distance from the campus! Call for reservation: 232-5871 

The Student Union and Hall Academic Commissions proudly present 
ACCENT Lecture Series 


*Featuring informal discussions in the dorm from 
N.D. Faculty and administrative members *Watch for it TOMORROW! 
Wednesday, February 22, 1984-page 3
The Observer 
SENIORS 

Students criticize DuLac policies
WinaBidFor 

The 1984 Senior Formal at the 84 Day Countdown Party Monday, Feb. 27 at Senior Bar 
Raffle tix are 50 cents each. For those unable to attend, raffle tix may be purchased by calling 283-6280. 
JOHN MARSHALL .. LAW SCHOOL 
1393 Peachtree st., N.E., Atlanta GA 30309 
APPLICATIONS NOW TAKEN February, June, September admissions Day or Evening Classes 
John Marshall Law School admits without regard to national or ethnic origin. ~.... 
APPROVED FOR VETERANS 
~~ 
IUJ 

Graduation from John Marshail meets the requirements ~or admission to the Bar Examination in Georgia and Indiana 4)nly. (404) 872·3593 
Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet Startingjanuary 11th 
Every Wednesday it's Mama Marriott's Italian Buffet in the Looking Glass. Restaurant. A"buon gusto "array of antipasta, minestrone, fettuctne, ca:x:iatore,lasagne, pasta with four sauces, cheese, breads and desserts. It's all served up in a festive Italian atmosphere-checkered table cloths, astrolling musidan, -the works. 
Every Wednesday 
5:00p.m,-10:00 p.m. All you can eat for S9.50. Children under 12 S4.75. 
$1.00 Off 

Each adult's Wednesday night Mama Marriott Italian Buffet purchased. One. roupon per table only. Offer expires May 2, 1984 
\ 
sourH BEND
.Marriott® 

123 N. St. Joseph St.. South Bend (219) 234-2000 
By BILL KRAIS 
News Staff 
The DuLac manual, which es· 
tablishes rules for student life at Notre Dame, drew heated criticism from a small group of students who met last night with the DuLac ·Review Committee of the Student 
Senate'sjudicial Council. 
The committee will present a list 
of proposed revisions to DuLac to 
Dean ofStudentsjames Roemer. 
Committee members joe Roveta, 
Bill Bergamo, Piper Griffin and 
Karen Ingwersen and the dozen stu­
dents who showed up at the open 
forum raised serious objections 
about the preamble, university rules and regulations, and residence hall regulations sections. 
The committee members blamed the small turnout on the scheduling conflict with the alcohol rules dis· cussion between Student Body President Brian Callaghan and Father William Beauchamp, chair­man of the Committee on the Responsible Use ofAlcohol. 
The committee complained that the rules and regulations are not compatible with an equitable society. The preamble to DuLac states, "Due process in a university is not necessarily the same as due process in the civil courts with its 

New Jersey Club-Spring Break Bus Sign-ups: Wed., Feb. 22 at 6:30pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Questions: John or Brian (1583) 

The Observer 
is accepting applications for the positions of 
Managing Editor 
and 

Business Manager 
Submit resume to Bob Vonderheide 3rd Floor LaFortune 
..1 .~ ,Jf"'ltJ 1 ··~ unn·r ·. 

DEADLINE: 5 p.m. TODAY 
TheInstitutefor 
ParalegalTraining
works. 
Sodoits graduates. 
Four months of intensive training can add market value to your college degree. 
A sampling of jobs our graduates hold: LEGISLATIVE RESEARCHER, MUNICIPAL BOND PARALEGAL, REAL ESTATE MARKETING DIRECTOR, ESTATES & TRUSTS LEGAL ASSISTANT, ENERGY SPECIALIST, ANTITRUST SPECIALIST, CORPORATE BENEFITS PLANNER, ENVIRONMENTAL LAW SPECIALIST 
• 
Through our corporate contacts, our national search team and our computenzed placement service, we have placed over 5,000 of our graduates m law firms, banks and corporations nationwide. 

• 
You can specialize in one of seven areas of the law. 

• 
All courses include training in computer applications to legal practice.

• 
If we cannot secure a job for you in the city of your choice, we provide a substantial tuition refund. 

• 
Financial aid and housing are available. 


We11 be at your campus on February 29 Contact your placement office to see our resource book on law-related careers and to arrange for a group presentation or a personal interview. 
r--------------~­
Mail this coupon to: RUND

To Jearn more, call collect: 
I The Institute for Paralegal Training, I

(215) 567-4811. Or, return 
I 1926 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103 I

the coupon. 
I Please send a free copy of your catalogue. 1I D Philadelphia D Houston I

THE INSITIUIE 
I Name 1

FORI¥\RAJEGAL 
I Address 1TRAJNING I City l' State __ Zip 1 
Philadelphia 
I cone:O I

Houston (yr. of grad.)
I I
Phone 

~--------------------~i--~8::~0~----~::~:_ _______J 
more elaborate precautions which are required to protect the accused from abuse." In this passage. the ad· mtnistration implies that the accused will be presumed guilty, and that rights protecting the accused will be virtually ignored, committee members stated. 
Further, the committee pointed out inconsistencies between the regulations and the punishments. Roveta said, "the rules and regula­tions are unclear so as to give the ad­ministration leeway in interpreting violations. Such interpretations lead to unjust punishments." 
"The directives passed out by the Dean ofStudents are automatic addi­tions to DuLac," said Gdffin. The committee said that students may be punished for breaking a rule published in a directive yet never declared in DuLac. 
According to the committee, the greatest problem is the inability of students to directly affect ad­ministrative policies. Committee members said the rules and regula­tions are produced without student input. 
The committee asked that any ad· ditional ideas or suggestions be for· warded to Roveta, 351 Zahm Hall. 
Roemer has not established a deadline for receiving the commit­tee's recommendations, according to RoYcta. 
Forum 
continuedfrom page 1 
drinking -both-on and off campus -and stricter enforcement of rules at parties by hall officials, as articles to be included in the committee's report to the provost. 
Although Beauchamp would not release the committee's recom­mendations, he said, "The commit­tee is definitely leaning in one direction." Beauchamp said he hopes the committee will be able to submit its report to the provost by April I. The deadline for retracting housing contracts without forfeiting the $200 deposit is April 6. Beauc­hamp added that he does not foresee O'Meara rejecting the committee's recommendations. 
~Alcohol 
continuedfrom page 1 
cern of the faculty. 
According to Phelps, faculty response to the questionnaire was "excellent." She commented, "Many people feel that there is a problem -only a minority feel that it is not a faculty problem. Most feel that there should be more emphasis upon educational programs. Whatever is done, it has to be more than just laying down the law." 
Rectors also submitted verbal and written statements to the Commit· tee on the Responsible Use of Al­cohol. Several rectors encouraged members of the committee to speak to students at hall meetings. Father Thomas King, rector of Zahm Hall, noted that committee members "came to Zahm Hall first and solicited input for over two hours." 
Father Eugene Gorski, Howard Hall rector, expressed confidence in the committee's final report: "The rectors have made very ample con­tributions to the committee, and it is my feeling that they will come out with a policy that is intelligent and sensible." 
While giving suggestions "called for a little more initiative on the part of the rectors," Lewis Hall Rectress Moira Baker said rectors have had "every opportunity to air their views." 
Asked if they had noticed an in­crease in the number of alcohol­related incidents in their halls this year, several rectors acknowledged that they had not experienced any additional problems. In Lewis Hall, for example, Baker said the number of alcohol-related cases wa:; "about the same. There are always one or two problems that you wish weren't there, but nothing unusual." 
...-............ -.... --,.. -----.................... ·-............ ·--...... ,., "" ...... -... --~ . 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~i~~~_()__i_ll___t_______________w_oo_n_e~-~-,F-eb_ru_~_2_2,_198_4__p~-e-4 
Something missing in Mondale campaign 
Walter F. Mondak strides across this state likt: the Jolly Grn·n Giant. Iil' dominates tht· polls, nccds two planes li>r his news mcdia contingcnt and makes appcaranccs that arc ht·llcr advanccd than <icn. Dwight D. Eisen­hower's at the Normandy bcachcs. Rooms for him matcrializt·_ at_ u~lpJanncd stops, couchcs 
Richard Cohen: The Cohen Report 
art· movt·d in, and rt·portcrs arc told, bcli.>rc 
they gct olf the hus for thc night, what motel 
rooms havt· hecn assignnl. 
And yt·t tlll'rc is something missing. Call it cnthusiasnl, call it t·motion. call it anything you like. The Mondak campaign walks, talks and ans like that of the dominant front­runner. It just dm·s not feel like one. 
lnstt·ad of excitt·mt·nt, therc is a st·nsc of duty or obligation about this campaign. Thc opcrativc word is "rcstore" -a word Mondak frequently uses. If elct'tnl, hc will "rt:ston·" govcrnnH·nt programs eliminated or cut hy President Reagan, cspecially those that help the agcd and the poor. He will "rcstorc" the traditional dialogue with the Sovict Union that has resulted in every recent President but Reagan reaching some sort of arms agreement. He will "restore" a sense of fairness and once again obligate the govern­mcnt to do the right, as well as the economi­
cal. thing. 

It is all good stuff and ifyou are poor, aging or out of work, wonderful to hear. But it makes Mondale thc candidate of the recent past, spccifically of the Carter administration, a kind of monarch in exile waiting for the res­toration. 
And it pits him, should he win the Democratic nomination, against Reagan, the candidate of the nostalgic past, a man who cites his all-but-imaginary hometown of Dixon, Ill., as a model for America -a movie­set town of virtue and neighborliness whose reality most Americans fled. This is what Reagan did, choosing Pacific Palisades and Rodeo Drive over Dixon and Main Street. No matter. In a contest, the nostalgic past, which is anything you want it to be, beats the recent past, which is worse in memory than in reality. 
This must have occurred to Mondale and his staff. So maybe this is just his strategy for the primaries, an attempt to unify the Democratic Party around the ideals of the recent past before he leads it on to something new and hold. The trouble is that boldness is not a Mondale attribute. His decency is matched only be his cautiousness. Unlike George McGovern, who now basks in post­Vietnam and Watergate vindiction, Mondale has never known what it's like to stake out a lonely position and see the country move his way. 
On Vietnam, for instance, Mondale was late in opposing the war. In an interview here, he now ways that's the chief regret of his public career. But he was also among the last of the Democratic candidates to call for a Mlrine withdrawal from Beirut, something he says he docs not regret. 
When it came to the Marines, Mondale says, there were so many things to consider -and there were. Because of his experience, his knowledge, he sees many trees -maybe more than the other Democratic candidates. What he sometimes can not see is the forest. 
So the Iowa campaign is one of trees. For organized labor, Mondalc offers loyalty and nary a hint ofdisagreement. For the teachers, he has an education program. For the elderly, he vows that Social Security and Medicare shail remain inviolate. And for the farmers, he promises that once again the world will be their market Only once, when Mondale told how the women's movement had enabled his wife, Joan, to "grow and blossom," did he seem to speak from the gut -and that, for many who heard him, is where the remark was received. 
Other than that, though, the Mondalc cam­paign is a trough from which a voter can feed. There is something here for everybody ­something good, something necessary. He will help them when they are hungry, educate their children, restore and protect their jobs and comfort them in their old age. 
But there is something missing, too, and you can see it in the faces of the people who come to sec Mondalc. They walk aw<ty like shoppers in a supermarket. They have bought the essential. For the vision, they will have to go somewhere else. 

The real Notre Dame security 

St-curity ht·rt· at Notre Damt· has ht·en plagued hy many misconceptions hdd by stu­dnns. La.<;t semestt·r. I dealt with our security more dosdy than most students. At the liSC game, I was struck by an ushcr while trying to run onto tht· field after our vil'tory. 
This indtknt resulted in many intervinvs 

1ohn Tallarida 
Guest column 

wuhan invcstig;Hor and a tkeper insight into tht· St'Curity lkpartment ofour university. Two major rnisnmccptions whil'h many of us hold are th;u member~ ofset:urity are uned­
ucatnl peopk with weapons and flashing lights, and that tht·y are hert· to polin· the stu­tknts. 
··1 think a lot of people don't rt·alizc that many of our ollicers have had expt·rkncc," s;1ys one invt:stigator. The amount of educa­tion that many ofour st·curity personnd have had is surprising. 
<ilenn Tary. the head ofsecurity since Sep­tember 1979, has 26 years ofexperience as an investigator with the South Bend Police Department, ten ofwhich were spent a.-; Divi­sion Chief. lie is also a graduate of the FBI Na­tional Academy, a professional management school aimed at bringing management up to date on current trends. 

Rex Rakow is also a graduate of the FBI Na­tional Acadt·my as well as being the assistant director ofsecurity since the position was es­tablished in October 1979. lie has been a sworn officer for 20 ofhis~-~ years. 
Presently, he is a trustee ofthe International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Ad­ministrators and he recently received his Mas­ters of Science and Administration from our university. 
Like their superiors, many of the I00 mem­bers of security are equally qualified. Forty­t1ve,.,;u;t· uniformed, and about one-third are sworn officers who have gone through the In­diana Law Enforcement Academy. 
The remaining uniformed personnel have attended many seminars dealing with rape, evidence, fingerprint and other related sub­jects. Of these 45 individuals, nine have B.A. degrees, including three Notre Dame graduates. Of these nine, two have their mas­ters. 
The remaining personnel are students and hall monitors who take care ofthe ACC, Snite, halls, front gates and parking lots. 
Another misconception is that security is here to watch us."They (the students) get the idea they are being policed and they do not understand that we are here for their protec­tion," an investigator, Anne Schellinger, ob­serves. "The problem is outsiders coming in," she says. Many students do not realize the dif­ficulty of patrolling tht· Notre Dame campus, which covers 1253 acres. To accomplish this task, there arc usually ten individuals pershift, Two or three ofwhom are officers. 
The shift includes two mobile units, two or three groundsmen. an investigator and dis­patcher. The mobile units are responsible for University Village, Bulla and Juniper road, and all University property on Douglas. 
The groundsmen arc responsible for lock­ing and unlocking the buildings as well as patrolling the campus. The two investigators follow up on calls, reports of suspicious per­sons, thefts and burglaries. As Rakow sees it, security is here for the protection oflife and property. 
However, this goal only compromises about 5 percent of their total duties. Mainly, Rakow says, "We arc a service organization." These services include manning the gates, transporting money from the Huddle, Oak Room, Bookstore and other similar places, and the transportation of around 3500 stu­dents per year to the hospital." 
Another common misconception is the widely accepted belief that security has a quota for parking tickets written every year. 
Rakow explains, "Decals, parking fees, any­
thing we collect, any money we collect, goes 
hack to the drpository account and we are 
restricted as to what few things that we can 
buy out of that account." The officers art: not out to make a quick buck from your mistake. 
Many students arc also oblivious to the per­sonal feelings of the oftkers. "They (security personnel) arc protective ofthe students, like they would be to a little brother or a little sis­ter," says Rakow. "The officers we have really make the system work. They care about the students." 
The Notre Dame Security Department is an institution that cares a great deal for the people it protects and takes a great deal of pride in its work. 
john Tallarida is a sopbmorePLS majorfrom Novato, California. 

P. 0. BoxQ 
"Second class" 

JJear Editor: 
Notrt· Dame has the reputation for hdng lllll' oftht· country's li.>remost Catholic univer­sitks and is particularly concerned with tht· sd10larship and reputation of its theology tkpartmt·nt. 
I'm surt· many studt·nts value highly their theological nlucation as one way of affirming, reformulating or rethinking their hdids about (iod, and perhaps enriching their faith. But this aspt'l't of our education is steadily heing compromised by the present philosophy of tht· department as to how to preserve our Catholic character in this field. 
Though undt·rgrads art· not privy to in· formation concerning how the department's philosophy is formulated or how it translates into practice, from the headline artide in last Friday's Obsenwr (Feb. I7) concerning Prof. Stanley llauerwas' possible job offer at Duke, ont.· can extrapolate what I consider to be a trend toward substantially downgrading the Catholic theological educati<>n we can receive at Notre Dame. 

Non-Catholics as well as Catholics with a deep conviction to their own religious beliefs and traditions can create an openness among students, inviting them to examine their own faith. 
Father Richard McBrien, chairman of the department, stated that "the department is at once Catholic and ecumenical," and that "those who aren't Catholic should regard themselves as full members ofthe department with full participation" in the department. I would hope that each faculty member has full participation! 
What is going on in that department that has apparently led to a less that cooperative at­mosphere? How can any non-Catholic profes­sor help hut feel like a second-class citizen when the pervasive attitude of the depart­ment supports token ecumcnism? Can we ex­pect top theologians, Catholic or non-Catholic, to flock to this expanding department, new theology building or no? 
If Notre Dame wants students to obtain an examined, reflective and rich education in Catholicism, it should create an open, receptive, and diverse atmosphere for top theologians ofall faiths. 
Laura A. Cur/iss 
I 
The Observer 
Viewpoint Dept. is seeking new writers. 
Contact Keith at 239-7471. 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
Editor-in-Chief.............................._. David Dziedzic  
P. 0  Box Q .. \'otre Dame./.\' 46'i'i6  ( 2/<J) 23<J-5303  Managing Editor....................... Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager . ................Christopher Owen  
Jbe Ohsen•er i~ the imkpt·ntknt rwwspaper published by the students of the l'ni­ ExecutiveEditor.................................Paul McGinn  Controller ........................ .................. _ ... Alex Szilva~  
n·rsity of Notrt· Dame duLac and Saini Marv\ Collcge. It does not necessarily retlcct  News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide  Adl'ertising Manager .........................jeanie Pook  
the polic.:ies of tht· administration of l'itht·r institution. The news is reported as ac­ News Editor....................................Mark Worschch  Circulation Mtmager.........................Mark Mi11tto  
curatdy and as objeetivdy as possiblt-l ·nsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa  Saint Mary•'s Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski  .\)•stems Manager...... .................... Kevin Williams  
majority oftht· Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters. and the ln'~ide Column present  SportsEditor ........................:!.'.':'.~ ..Michael Sullivan  
till' \'kws ofthl'ir authors. Column 'ipan· is a\'ailahll· to all memhers ofthe community. and I he frtT t·xpression of,-arying opinilm'on campus. through kttcrs. is encouraged.  Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton  Founded November 3. 1966  
Photo Editor..........................................Scott Bower  

Sports Briefs 
The Georgetown basketball teamwas up­
set last night by St. John's, 75-71. The Hoyas, now 23-3, trailed by as much as 22 points en route to the loss, which snapped a 10-game Georgetown winning streak. The Hoyas cut their deficit to 72-69 with 48 seconds remaining. but Mark Jackson iced the Redmen's victory with a free throw and a fast-break basket. St. John's held Patrick Ewing to just II points for Georgetown, while Chris Mullin exploded for a career-high 33 points to lead the Redmen. -AP 
The ND Rowing clubwill be meeting tonightat 10 
p.m. in LaFortune's Little Theater. All those planning on travelling with the team to Austin, Tx. during break must attend and bring the S50 deposit. Ifyou can not make the meeting. callJoe at 8198 orJ.T. at 1414. -The Observer 
Mal Moore has been promoted to Assistant Head Coach of the football team. Moore will continue his duties as coach of the running backs. He is replacingJimJohnson, who left after the Liberty Bt>wl. Moore has received many coaching offers from other schools since coming to Notre Dame, making his promotion understandable. 
-. The Observer 
Cheerleaderswishing to try out for the t984-85 squad must attend a meeting on February 27 at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. The captain of next year's team will be Bill Thallemer. Call him at 233­4331 for more details.-The Observer 
Wednesday, February 22, 1984 -page 5 
The Notre Dame men's swimming team 
lost a dual meet last night to Bradley, 69-43. The loss makes Notre Dame'sfinal dual-meet record 7-4. The only bright spotsfor the Irish were Tim Bohdan's victory in the 1000-yard freestyle and Dan Flynn's second-place fmish in the 200-yard butterfly. Bohdan missed the varsity record by 1.1 second in his event, while Flynn surpassed the pool record in the 200 fly, only to lose by .1 second to Bradley's Rob Schackle. -The Observer ' 
An interhall swimming meet is scheduled for February 28. Hall representatives must turn in a list of entries to DennisStark the day before the meet orthe interhall office, C2, ACC. For more information on the ten-event meet, call swimming coach Stark at 239-6222. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Sailing clubwm hold a spring or­ganizational meeting tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. All must attend, particularly those planning to compete in New Orleans. Complete spring schedule will be dis­cussed. -The Observer 
The Fellowship ofChristianAthletes will be meeting tonight at 7:30p.m. in room 20 of Hayes-Healy. All are welcome to attend -The Observer 
Men 
continuedfrom page 8 
hurt. That's the thing we've lost. Now we've got to take what's left and get some confidence back by winning the rest of our games. We've got to look at ourselves to get things done." 
Manhattan, which was a respect­able 15-13 last year, has managed to avoid any serious injuries this season. That is about all they've managed to do, however, recording their victories against relatively weak Ivy League teams from Brown, Harvard, and Yale, while losing to such unimpressive teams as Seton Hall, Fairfield, and Hofstra 
The Jaspers are led by 6-7 junior 
forward Tim Cain, who is averaging 
20.8 points and 6.1 rebounds per game. Guard Jim Haufier, a 6-1 junior, provides an additional 14.3 points percomest. 
Another player the Irish must watch is 6-5 sophomore guard Maurice Wiliams, Manhattan's leading rebounder at 7.6 rpg. and their third leading scorer at 9.6 ppg. 
Defensively, theJaspers play a 2-3 zone, which means that the Irish will get plenty of scoring opportunities from the wings. Phelps said he would not be surprised to see a box­and-one concentrating on Tom Sluby, however. 
The Irish plan to take advantage of the outside scoring chances and use their superior height and rebound­ing abilities to pound the boards and score easy baskets via the fast break. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFonune Student Center, accepts classified advenising from 9 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saini Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day cla'iSifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters r <lay. 

NOTICES 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT­HERS! Surfs up but our prices aren't. From just $109.00 -spend 1 tun-filled days In sunny Florida. Call lor yourseH or organl2e a small group and travel FREEl Great lor clubs, tool Call LUV TOURS (800) 368-2006, ask lor An­nette. 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME AT REASONABLE RATES. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. 
Are you in need of RNANCIAL AID? Le-shlp Training' Challenge' Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! ARMY ROTC! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building (239­6264). 
TO THE GIRL WHO WANTS HER BRA BACK. SO YOU'RE GOING TO TELL MY FRIENDS ABOUT MY PROBLEM. WELL. LET ME TELL YOU SOME­THING THE ONLY REASON I WAS A TAD QUICK WAS BECAUSE I DIDN'T WANT TO SPEND AN EXTRA SECOND WITH A COLD UGLY PIG LIKE YOUR­SELF. 
ATIENTION SOCIOLOGY MIUORS: YOUR PUPOSES FINALLY ARRIVED. YOU CAN P!CK THEM UP AT THE BOOKSTORE. 
PRO-TYPE -Over t2 yrs. experience typing dissertations. manuscripts. and student papers. Call277-5833 
WASHINGTON DC SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS THURSDAY 2123 7-8 PM SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE 
IF YOU SEE A SWIMMER, WISh HER Good Luck at the Midwest lnvrtational' 
ENOUGH!!! Hey guys. cool rt wrtll the sweats and fOCk­ets. okay? h was ONLY the Liberty Bowl! 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST. blue and grey NIKE runmng 1ackel 1n Saga(LeMans s1de) or Haggar 2/t4. Need desperately' Please call4231 
LOST: GOLD WRISTWATCH IN SOUTll DINING HALL LAST WEEK. IF FOUND, CALL CHRIS AT 6153. 
LOST: SILVER WATCH WITH GOLD SCREWS. POLEK/QUARTZ WITH ROMAN NUMERALS. MAY HAVE BEEN LEFT IN ROCK. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL CONNIE 4526. 
To whorneller took my Black '·Totes" umbrella. 
rm sure you appreciale rt as much as I, and I realize that you didn't even mean to take rt from the C-!l lobby of North Dining Hall on Friday, Feb. 11 during Breakfast. Alii ask is that you return rt to 222 Ca-.aughHloll at your earliest con­venience, or even call Nick at 1426 to ar­range its retOOl. 
Thank you 
FOUND GOLD STRAP WATCH • 2 WEEKS AGO NEAR THE ROCK. IN­QUIRE AT LOST AND FOUND OR CALL 2838768. 
please help me find a lost gold chain bracetet with jade beads and much sen­tmental Value. iflotnl call anne at 4420. 
LOST: ONE PEARL NECKLACE IN ACC IIONOGRAII ROOM. CALL CINDY 283-2856. 
LOST: N.D. KEY CHAIN (4 KEYS) SATURDAY 2/t8 BETWEEN 3:30 & 7 
P.M. BElWEEN THE ARCHIE BI..OG. AND GRACE HALL. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL_t64t EDDY 
LOST: CHEAP LITTlE CAMERA at JPW Difwe' Saturday night. T h's brown and betge. ~ has a built-in flash, and rt is held logether by a piece of tape. But rt has some JPW photos on the film inside. H fomd. please call Gil> at 1682. 
FOUND: A maroon and gray plaid wool scarf at the Ellglf1E!efing Auditorium after The Chosen." Call Patrick at 1754. 
lost: TAN CASHMERE SWEATER on Feb. 21 also a CAStO CALCULATOR WATCH al the GMAT tests ., the Engineering Auditorium Please call Ron at 277-8452 if Found. REWARD 
FOR RENT 
NEED 2 RESPONSIBLE, FESTIVE. HOUSEMATES. 112 BLK. FROM BAAS AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS. $75/MO. 287-9252 BEFORE 9AM/AFTER 12AM 
WANTED 
SO~RES! Interested in beco•mng an Army Ofticer? Interested 1n Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne R...-nan lrl the ROTC Budding (239­6264) 
DESSPERATELY need 3 Marqtte TIX lor tam•y.Call Daw at 1045 
Need rides to Daytona tor Spong Breoik:. canCindy 4407 SMC 
WANTED: A good showing at the Mid­west lnvitatJonal. Contact the best bmes department of the Women·s Swmm111g Team. 
ANARCHY IN THE UK! Needed: Riders io Lexington. KY lor February 24 -26 Wkend Call Bobat 3182 
FOR SALE 
Want to know what's really going on in the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER, the only newspaper of the U.S. Church. For sub­scription infomtation and a tree sample copy, call Paul at 217-4851. 
Audiovox .....-. AII-FII .,_..._ 
Jensen 4 112 conveflible speakers. 
Never used. $100.00.239-7516-Susan­
6-5. 
MAXELL XL 2 & TOK SA 90 tapes. $2.50 ea Call Dan Meakin 277-3306. 
Rossi s1as Tymlea brnBngs New and unused At room 109 Keenan OCNO. 2729749 
~ Capri-1974-lor sale. needs much body-but drives well-$300.00, Cathy at 233-2681. 
TICKETS 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX Mike or Keith 1180 
MARQUETTE 11X? I need two student ticl<els tothe Marquette game. Please call 1388 
SAVEAUFE!!! My father wiN Kill me ~ I don't come up with Marquette ticl<els tor hml and tis visiting friends. He's VERY popular. but also very wealthy. so money is no problem. Call Jamie at 8704. Thanx. 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX CALL MARK 
1229 
HELP! I NEED 2 MARO. TIX. MAKE GOBS OF S. CALL ED AT 1542 
HELP. I NEED 2 MU GAS. CALL DAVE AT1801. 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX BILL1059 
TOOTHSOME BLONDE WIWNG & ABLE (TO NEGOTIATE) NEEDS 4 MROTTE TX JILL SMC NO. 4274 HEIRESS TO IOWA POPCORN FORTUNE-ACCESS TO HUMON­GABUCKS 
NEED MARQUETTE TIXCaJI Chip 8831 NEED MAROJETTE TIX Call Sheila 3484 
MARO TIX: need 3 badly. Call Pat x3537 
NEEDED TWO MARQUETTE TICKETS. CALL BILL AT x1763. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Marquene. Please call Dave. x1765. 
TED HESBURGH IS A GAY old lellow who would help me if he could, but I need a pair of Marquette tickets, and my old pal seems to be outoftown again. HYOU can help me. I'm sure Ted would really ap­preciate • (~ you know what 1 mean). Call Ed at277-4851 or284-5333. Go ahead­makemyday. 
WANTED: 5 Marquene student or GA's call Jim Forde at 277-8450 
NEED MARQUETTE TICKETS (STUD OR GA) FOR VISmNG FRIENDS. CALL TODDAT8214. 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX SS$ CALL KATHY1284. 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX FOR TURGID BUDSSSSCALL MELAT 1865 
H you have MARQUETTE tickets, I need them. Call John at 12011. 
HELP!! Need ttvee GAs for Marquette Game. Please call3211. 
WILL PAY $60 !! f\EED 2 MU-ND GA'S CALL DAN 1603 URGENT!!!!!! 
NEEDED: 5 Commencement TICkets. Gall Susan 3611. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
~RecSoccer 
Tonight! 
Angela Athletic Center 9-11 PM 
Be There! 

What ever happened to Mason Reese? 
My name is Gerald Sampson, and I'm presently Incarcerated at Florida Stale Prison. I would ~ke to correspond with anyone at this school I am a black male. age 27. 6T tall and 175 pounds. Age. race or sex is not mportanl. Wnte: Gerald Sampson. No. 048268. P.O Box 747. Slarke. FL32091. 
Wanted: Prtvate 24 hour study lounge. See Paul and Karen 
N> beer bongs ,_ to order. SIIC 5485. 
PHOBIA OF THE DAY. ALPAPHOBIA. FEAR OF A REAL MAJOR. 
MARIA Today IS your lucky day -another per­sonal! When you are around me. surprises never cease. Have a great day! Lo.... Michael 
Social Concerns Film Series: Double feat,..e on South Alrica: The DISCarded People.. and Country lovers:· Discus­sion wrth Peter Walshe, 7 pm. Center for Social Concerns -Free. 
ASPEN for Spring Break! call Joe McBride 8877 
WASHINGTON DC SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS WHEN: THURSDAY 2/23 7-8 PM WHERE: SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE COST $65 ROUND TRIP $350NE-WAY 
-Dame Women Swimmenl... 
Best in the Midwest... 
Go IFISH! Do rt at Midwest!!!! 

let's win one for the Coach of the Year! 
Is there really a social dutz on 4th floor Lyons? What will this gi~ do for a man in uniform? Why did she strike out with Rag­gedy Anne·s brother? How far will she get with Old McD.? H you ever try an engage­ment stiJnl again. I'll stick the ring through yo,.. nose 
To Debbie from Dallas ... 

Happy Anniversary, Mary Ellen from your source 
Hickory. dtckory. motor inn 

For a short time the room we were inn 
The lady did call 
And out went us all 
Hickory, dickory, motor 1nn 

Hello. Shelia Boots and B-lrom the entire staff 
Tess Guanr10 IS a real woman! 
PEABODY Happy Birthday to my~ banana! Paganln~ tn1e climbing, breeze, rice or loo loos, what watch? loYe Miss K. 
For those bananas who were not in­formed. Today is Gina Farabaugh's 19th B-Day. Let her know how happy you are she was born. ENDAD 
BORED? 

Then why not take an interest in some­thing beides school, sports, or sex? Nuclear w.-~.half-hour 
videos, tonight -tomorrow, 7:30, I.JIIortune llltle Theatre. 
BETH LOEBEL BETH LOEBEL BETH LOEBEL IS 20! Bonne Anmversa.-e. Chicken' 
KP The MOOSE lives! The MJ Corp. 
Save the egg.. Save the egg... EGG DROP CONTEST luesday February 28 Info. in C. E. office. rm. 156 Fitz. Save The Egg. 
YO, P-o Head! You'D be skinned alive! 
GO ~GO LADY lASH! 
This is the pineapple in the pina colada of sw1mming! 
Midwest-DEADII 
Th1s is rt. seniors--LETS DO IT!! 
Larry, Mo. & Curly-THEY want you to do d! love, the Sultry Sophs 
BE the pool... 
Remember Puerto Rico--Let·s do ~ for Buffett!! 
GO VENETTO-Show some spunk! 
Go BURKE! Get ANGRY' 1he moor,-s out ... Scream01· Boat Drinks.. 
Hey BOSSI Get MAD!! You're a LEAN, MEAN SWIMMING MACHINE I 
M&M-HAPPY B-DAY! YOU KNEW WE WOULDN'T FORGET~ LOVE, THE CASANOVAS 
BOX FOUND -on Phily bus returning from fall break. contains g;~·s shoes.dishes.etc. Call8877 
FLAG?WHATflAG? 
COSMOS FEVER__.. CATCH ITIIIIIII 
ANY students NO or SMC inlerested in SKIING March 2-4 at Sugarloaf MI. in Cedar. Mi. $85with rental$60w/orentals Includes trans.,kxlging. and lift tix Cal! Rick at8640 by Friday. 
JACK, the Econ 123 T A The extra help was more than I eJCpllC!ed! You extended my opportunrty curve! -A satisfied Con­suner 
Wondra. How can I live without you and your HOT ROSE dress. Even I with all my magnificenl qual~ies. can., rnagine life without you. I guess Hooooosiers are people too. SPAL SPAL I realize you have a lhing tor Regina North. But remember, you are not a God, YOU'RE FROM-GAYLORD?!?!? WONDRA 
a suspension of reality ned v feb. 25 
ATTENTION NORTHEASTERNERS! n-1...-ed In living on lhe -Jenoey shore this ..........r? Rooms may be anilable...call Pill at 8762. 

The Observer Wednesday, February 22, 1984-page 6 
VanderVelden takes gold 
Two fencers make Jr. Olympics 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
,\ports Writer 
A squad of seven Irish fencers faced top competition from across the United States over the weekend in Portland, Ore., and came away with a gold medal and two spots on the 1984 U.S. Junior Olympic fen­cing team. 
The Portland tournament, which is limited to fencers under the age of 20 on Jan. I, 1984, involved three rounds of round-robin fencing, followed by two rounds of direct elimination. Sixteen fencers were matched up in thl' t1nal round of tough direl:l elimination. 
In the foil, fifth-ranked sopho­more Mike VanderVelden ( 27-6 on the season) captured the gold medal and qualified for one of three spots on thl· ll.S. foil team, which will fence in the Junior World Olympics in Leningrad, over Easter. 
Freshman foiler Charles Higgs­Coulthard, who is leading the Irish fencers with a 39-3 record, finished sixth in Portland, but he also qualified for a spot on the U.S. foil squad, since he finished second-best in the country in total number of points scored for the year. 
"Mike VanderVelden did a great job," commented Notre Dame head coach Mike DeCicco. "Charles (Higgs-Coulthard) looked like he was going to win the thing right off, ' and all ofa sudden it turned around, and Michael was the one fencing for the gold medal -it's to their credit." 
Among the other Irish fencers in Portland, freshman Kevin Stoutermire ( 18-6 on the season) finished fourth in the sabre, and sophomore Tony Consoli ( 18-2) finished ftfth. Sophomore sabre man DonJohnson ( 25-5) finished eighth. 
A surprise fencer who was able to make the trip and fence, despite an injury to his ankle, was sophomore sabre man John Edwards (ranked 
second  in  the  U.S.  prior  to  this  
event).  
"I  couldn't  move  at  all,"  com­ 

mented a disappointed Edwards who is 27-1 on the season and managed to finish in the top twenty with a valiant effort in this sabre competition. 
"The sabre men, all but John Ed­wards, made the finals, which was a plus," said DeCicco. ·Coach DeCicco believes that having the Junior World Olympics in Leningrad is attractive to all fencers. This at­tractiveness brought all of the top fencers to Portland, which is an ex­pensive venture for each fencer in itself. 
As a result ofthis top competition, the Irish proved to have the two best under-20 foilers in the country. Van­derVelden and Higgs-Coulthard will represent the United States in Leningrad ranked first and second, respectively. 
"One ofthe things that we have on our team this year that I'm excited about is that we have a number of young people, and all of them seem to be having some varying success, and that augurs well for the im­

Wednesday Specials 
8-3am Margaritas 95 cents Hot Cheese Nachos 50 cents 
New Jersey Club-Spring Break Bus Sign-ups: Wed., Feb. 22 at 6:30pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Questions: Jol:ln or Brian (1583) 


The Student Union is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Board Manager ControUer Business Manager 
for 1984-85. 

. . 
'., .~:,;;::.,.:-~ <~ > ' )1. h.::' 

mediate future," commented DeCic­co. "Ifyou get that kind of help in a program like ours, it augurs well, not only for the immediate future, but also for the next four or five years, (and) that's what excites me right now." 
The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams will con­tinue their seasons this weekend as they travel to Illinois to face rivals Illinois and Wisconsin on Saturdav. 
GOT A SCOOP? 

Pick up the phone and give The Observer a call: 
239-5303 
CHIMES 
The St. Mary's College literary magazine is now accepting manuscripts for its spring issue. 
SUBMIT: POEMS· STORIES-PLAYS 
photography-art work To: CHIMES c/o Wester 310 Madeleva Hall St. Mary's College Deadline: March 12 


Applications for SENIOR BAR MANAGERS are now available at Student Activities. 
Applications must be completed and returned by FRIDAY, FEBRUARY24. 
Black Cultural Arts Festival Come and experience entertainment at its best at our student TALENT SHOW 
Saturday, February 25, 7:00pm Library Auditorium 
. .. -. .... .. ~ . ... . . .. _... ..~ .... : ~.. ..' .................. ~"'· ... ,. ............ ... -.. , ..... ......... ·-..... -................... -............ ...
~ -~ 

~c:tcJlC3l~----------------------------------w--ro_n_e_~_a_y_,F~e~b~ru~MY~2~2~,~19~8~4~~p~~~e~7
Campus 
•3:30 
p.m.-Computer Minicourse, Tapes and Backup, 115 CCMB 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "The Gamma Ray Observatory," Dr. John W. Under, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m -Lecture, "Peptide Mediators and the Chemical Mechanism ofAction ofInsulin, Part II," Prof joseph Lamer, 127 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Regulation ofHerpes Simplex Virus Gene Expres­sion," Dr. William Batterson, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "One Hour With You," O'Shaughnessy Loft 



Mellish 

Guindon Richard Guindon 

11 has been pointed out that the way you walk can encourage or discourage muggers. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 

1 Group character 6 Room:Sp. 10 Middle-East  27 Discussion group 28 In the man· ner of  52 Climb in a way 53 Talks at length  
official  29 Give back  56 More  
14 Cook in a  money  attractive  
way  31  Strange  58 Excessive  
15 Ring  35 Munro  59 Indonesian  
decisions  nom de plume  islands  
16 MacGregor, for example 17 Devilfish 18 -man (indispen· sable one) 20 Supplement 22 Future fryers 23 Former Cairo VIP 24 Grain  37 Passe 39 Word with hard or soft 40 Lilliputian 42 Changedthe decor 44 Madrid day 45 Pies 47 Little­Annie 49 Certain  60 Catches 61 Villainous expressions 62 Magic stick 63 Location 64-Ababa DOWN 1 Writer Bombeck 2 Croaker 3 Symbol of accord 4 Bone-like  
street  5 Actor  
25 Compose  51  Musical  Lionel  
Gustav  refrain  6 Swagger  

WE WANT YOU! 
to work on the 
1984-85 ND ACTIVITIES CALENDAR 
Organizationa/Meeting .,'4 LN~~ r 
~~~ ~~l
Feb. 22-Tonite _r{c ,,..._... .~· \ ..... .,,,, 
1
6:30pm LaFortune Little Theatre if' ,' \\ 'tlf),,
"\ ­$ Paid Positions Available'\\ 
f./1. 
•7 p.m.-Lecture, "The Effect ofWomen's Roles on Eating Disorders," joe Bender, Center for Social
Dave&Dave 


Concerns, Sponsored by Women's Caucus
WAfCU THIL. 

•7 p.m. -Films, "Country Lovers," and "The Dis· carded People," Center for Social Concerns, Free 
•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, $1 

•7:30 
p.m.-Films, "U.S. vs U.S.S.R," and "Race to Oblivion," LaFortune little Theatre, Ground Zero 

•9 
p.m. -Speaker and Meeting, ND/SMC Right 


to Life, Mary Anne Hughes, LaFortune little Theatre 
TV Tonight 
6:30p.m. 16 22 28 
7p.m. 16 22 28 34 
7:30p.m. 16 22 28 34 
8p.m. 16 22 28 34 
8:30p.m. 22 9p.m. 16 
28 9:30p.m. 16 10p.m. 16 
28 
34 

11:30p.m. 16
"Aaaaaaa! ... No, Zooky! Grok et bok! • 
..... w 
.. 

7 Actor 
Tamiroff 8 Diary 9 Place for 
refuse 10 Trojan War 
hero 11 Iced 12 Tear-jerker 
need 
13 Companion to its and buts 
19-Mile 
Island 21 Challenged 24 Howled 
25 Forest animal food 
26 Wings 27 Heads 30 Social 
group 

....... 22
Shoosh! Shooshl ..." 
28 

32 Flagrante 48 Leveled 
delicto 49 Scarlett ­33 Hip bones 50 Sheer 34 Spirit fabric 36 Meant 51 Brief 38 Certain 52 George or 
fashions Irwin 41 Shows 53 Obligation boredom 54 Pakistani 43 Bram Stoker 55 Meeting: opus abbr. 46 Synthetic 57 Actress fabrics Zetterling 
Tuesday's Solution 

NBC Nightly News 
CBS News 
ABC's World News Tonight 
MASH 
PM Magazine 
Joker's Wild Contemporary Health Issues Barney Miller Family Feud Wheel ofFortune Straight Talk Real People Bugs Bunny All AMerican Hero Fall Guy National Geographic Movie: "Taps" Facts of Life Dynasty Night Court St. Elsewhere Hotel NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Indiana Lawmakers Tonight Show Police StoryI CBS Late Movie Thicke of the Night 


2122/84

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 

r~..-oo--..,...,...,.~~..,.~..,..,..,...,...,...,..,...,...,.~~...co-.....:>Q""--..,...,...,.~~..,.....ooooooo-..,.1 


"I'M Ob5crva/Paul Cifardli 
their last six games. For more on tonight's matcbup and Saturday's contest with ,W.arque(te, see Larry Burke'sstory andChuck Freeby"s column, both on Ibis page. 
S~orts 
joe Howard probably will not have many oppor­tunities to sit down tonight, as Notre Dame takes on Manhattan in Madison Square Garden. Tbe Irish will be tryinl( to enda slump in wbicb they have lostfive of 
Faust names Christoff as Irish Defensive Coordinator for 1984 
By MIKE SULLIVAN Despite spending only one year Oregon. 
Sports f."ditor on Paul Wiggin's staff, Christoff was Prior to his six-year stint at 
able to turn the worst defense in the Oregon, Christoff spent some time 
With spring football just around Pacific 10 into one of the best. The as secondary coach at Idaho ( I 970­the corner, Head football Coach Cardinal went from lao;t in pass 71 ), New Mexico State ( 1972), and Gerry faust has been taking care of defense in the conference to first, New Mexico ( 1973). He also served some loose ends before he begins and from last in total defense to as assistant head coach and his fourth season in charge. Yester­sixth. defensive coordinator at his alma day, he took care of the loosest end While this success obviously mater, Idaho, from 1974 to 1976, of all by naming former Stanford made him a leading candidate for the before joining Rich Brooks' staff at defensive coordinator Andy Chris­Notre Dame job, it was his work at Oregon in 1977. toff to the same post on the Irish Oregon, where he spent six seasons "Andy did a super job at Stanford staff. as defensive coordinator and secon­last fall, and he ha'> eight seasons of 
The naming of Christoff fills the dary coach, that first drew the atten­experience as a coordinator," said final opt.·ning on the 1984 coaching tion of Faust. Faust_ "He also has coached all three staff, a spot whkh became available "Andy originally caught my eye areas of defense, so he should be when lao;r year's defensive coor­two years ago when we played at comfortable working with any phase dinator, Jim Johnson, left the team Oregon," said Faust in an official ofour system." lao;t month to take a similar position statement. "We were awfully The 38-ycar-old Christoff will with the Oklahoma Outlaws of the impressed with their defense that have the responsibility ofrebuilding USFL It also ends a long hunt for a day, and that impression stayed with the Notre Dame defense, which wao; person with enough experience to me." largely ineffective by the end of the improve tht· erratic Notre Dame The impression ofthat 13-13 "tie" regular season. With some outstand­defense. with the Ducks hao; stayed with more ing freshmen joining the defense in 
IfChristoll's success lao;t year with than faust, but the excellent perfor­the fall, and with some receivers tht· Stanford defense is any indica­mance of the Oregon defense kept switching to defense to add some tion of what is to come for the Irish, the Irish from avoiding the huge up­depth to the secondary, the Irish then faust may have found himself set_ The game represented one of should show improvement im­an excellent coach. the highlights ofChristoft's career at mediately under their new coach. 
Need a win 
Basketball team meets Manhattan 
By lARRY BURKE then manage to avoid lao;t year's ear­haven't been anywhere near the Sports Writer ly disappointment and advan<:c to same without their regular starters. the semifinals and championship "The injuries made us a different 
The Notre Dame men's bao;ketball game, they would be hack in the ballclub," says Phelps. "We've just team wao; never more in need ofa big Garden again in late March. So got to get these other people in a win than it is right now. tonight wouldn't be a bad time for situation where they believe in Coming off their fourth con­Notre Dame to set a winning prccc­themselves. Royal and (Cecil) Ruck­secutive loss at the hands ofBrigham dem in New York City. er have to help us on the front line, Young on Saturday, and having They will have to do it without the and Howard has to be our point dropped five of their lao;t six games, services of sophomore starters Tim guard. We're doing the best we can the Irish are l<x>king to get back on Kempton and JoJo Buchanan, and we're asking some people to do track tonight as they face theJaspers however, as lx>th will miss the game things we haven't asked them to do 
of Manhattan at Madison Square Gar­with injuries. Kempton, who ha'> sat before. den. out the last three games, has a stress "For the guys who haven't been 
The Jao;pers, who have compiled a fracture ofthe right leg. tic is not ex­playing, it's their turn now to go out dismal H-17 record this season, pt.·cted to play again in the regular and do it. lbat's what we're trying to should not provide Notre Dame St"ason, but could possibly return if get across to them. It's difficult be­with a major test. tlowcver, the the Irish receive an NIT bid. Buc­cause when we were playing well a Irish, who are sometimes their own hanan, sufferingfrom recurring knee month ago, we were doing it playing worst enemy (particularly on the tendinitis, has missed Notre Dame's basically six people. lbcy road, where they are 2-7 this last two games and will remain a developed into a group that made season), cannot afford a letdown. question mark for the remainder of people look at us after we beat Vil­Nor 1..·an they get caught looking the scao;on. lanova and Maryland. But now, it's ahead to Saturday's big matchup JuniorJoe Howard hao; been filling like being a December team all over with Marquette. The Irish have al­in as a starter for Buchanan, while again. At this time of the year you ready lost any chance for an NCAA freshman Donald Royal ha'i taken shouldn't have to worry alxmt per­Tournament bid, and a loss tonight Kempton's spot in the front line, sonnel adjustments; you should be 
would make their chances for an with sophomore Ken Barlow in a groove ready to go fOr it. That's NIT bid extremely slim. moving to center. According to where we were before Kempton got Speaking of the NIT, if the Irish coach Digger Phelps, who took only should receive an invitation, and nine players to BYU, the Irish see MEN, page 5 




