------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Democratic race -page 3 

VOL XVlll N0.98 

Former ND professor designed 'bubble boy's' germ isolation system 
both had done extensive research
By MARK POTTER 
on germ-free enviroments at Notre Dame. The isolation system for David, 
StaffReporter 
"Belmear took care of David the famous "bubble boy," was very carefully," according to designed by a former Notre Dame Pollard. professor, Dr. Raphael Wilson. "I got personally involved with Another former faculty member, 
David because his parents lived 40 Patricia Belmear, was a member of miles away and couldn't always the ·medical team that treated 
come in to see him, so I was sort of David. 
his temporary mother when his real one couldn't be there," commented 
David, whose last name is Belmear. She was also involved
withheld to protect the privacy of with his education. She recalled,his family, died Wednesday, Feb. 
"He was an exceptional and very22, from complications resulting bright child." 
from a bone marrow transplant. He was born in 1971 with immune Wilson and Belmear both did deficiency syndrome, and had to be research in microbiology at Lo­confined to a sterile room for most bund. "The work at Lobund on of his life. Last October, David was bone marrow transplants was uni­Bullseye! 
The field consists of 17 players, and the tourney will Grace residents practice in their room for a dart­begin this weekend in Rm. 9/8. From left to right are
given a bone marrow transplant us­que," said Wilson. 
throwing tournament for members of the ninth floor. sophomores Tom Kirby, Rom Tyder and Jay Gentle. 
ing marrow from his sister 
Wilson joined Notre Dame's Katherine. faculty in 1959. He taught For unknown reasons, however, 
physiology, microbiology and im­his body rejected the transplant and 
munology, doing extensive research 

Right to Life to open care center 
in microbiology and germ-free en­
David became ill. ''The decision to viroments. He was also the director 
release him from the isolation By MARY HEILMANN housing, and 24-hour phone building on March 15, and will ad­of admissions and scholarshipssystem was made under duress. He News Staff counseling. minister all its activities from thatfrom 1965 until he left the Universi­had to be removed to be treated," "We've done sidewalk counseling date on."
ty in 1969. According to Fr. Jamessaid Wilson. The transplant caused The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's but this is the most ambitious,Burtchaell, a professor of theologyDavid's cells to mutate, giving rise Right to Life group has designated positive step we've taken so far," Fundraising for the center willat Notre Dame, Wilson ''took an in­to the tumors which caused his early April for the opening of a May said. "Since Birthright, a na­continue, with a phone-a-thonterest in individual students,death. 
Women's Care Center in South tional couseling organization, clos­scheduled for next month. Gerryespecially biology students." 
"The technology and equipment Bend, according to John May, vice ed their South Bend facilities last Faust has been named honoraryfor David's isolation system came president of the organization. summer, there is really nothing chairman of the phone-a-thon com­from the research here at Lobund," After leaving Notre Dame, right now in the way of help for mittee, which plans to contact 600
The Center, a project initianted
said Morris Pollard, director of Wilson went to Germany and South Bend families to solicit
by Right to Life, is the culmination unwed mothers." 
Notre Dame's Lobund Laboratory. worked at the University of Ulm funds. In addition, donations areof months of fundraising activity, Although the center was the idea "David's initial system was a with twins who had been born with of Professor Janet Smith, faculty still being accepted at the Women's 
during which $2,600 was raised
modification of the isolation immune deficiency syndrome. 
from student donations. coordinator for the Right to Life Care Center, P.O. Box 664, South systems that were being used at May, a senior preprofessional organization, May stresses that the Bend. 
Notre Dame at the time." ''That work went so well that I major, considers the amount "a center will be completely indepen­The bubble David first used had wanted to continue to work with very generous gift. We approached dent of the campus group. "We're "We're really excited about thisoriginally been designed by Wilson patients," Wilson said, ''which each dorm differently-through in the process of interviewing and project," May said. "As a result offor a boy born in Alabama who wasn't possible so I accepted a pro­dorm masses, door-to-door collect­hiring a director -a professional it, we will be able to embrace these was suspected to have immune defi­fessorship at the Baylor College of ting and informational pamphlets. counselor who will coordinate a needy women and give them theciency syndrome, but who was Medicine." Because of the position We're very grateful for the large staff.gf about ten volunteers. necessary direction to care for their later found ta not have the disease. at Baylor he was not able to stay on student reponse." "They'll begin moving into the unborn children." 
Wilson and Belmear were both David's case. 
The Women's Care Center, as
personally involved in David's case. Wilson was president of the 
described in the pamphlets, is "a
Wilson, a Holy Cross brother, was University of Portland, l.regon 
pregnancy help center which will Freshman class active present at David's birth and baptiz­from 1978 to 1981, and is now a 
provide women with the care they
ed him. Belmear is David's god­microbiology professor at Kings 
need to carry their pregnancies to
mother and Wilson is his god­College in Pennsylvania. 
term." Its services will include free 
father. They joined the medical 

in election campaigns 
pregnancy testing, help in finding

team that worked on David because see BUBBLE, page 3 
financial aid, medical care and By THOMAS LAMB in each of the halls on campus, and News Staff run-off elections will take place on March 7 between the two top 
With the approach of class of­tickets. 
ficer elections, buildings and halls have become littered with cam­


Observer/Mock Convention poll 
Candidates running for the 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students tend toward conservatism in the issues relevant to the Mock Convention platforms, according to this week's survey by The Observer and the Mock Convention Committee. A majority were against abortion and favored a national drinking age, although only 39 percent favored capital punish­ment. 
Of the 120 students interviewed, 70 percent were on-campus Notre Dame students, 20 percent were Saint Mary's students and 10 percent were off-campus students from both schools. 
The questions and results were as follows: 
On the issue of abortion, are you pro-life or pro-choice? Pro-life ... 70 percent Pro-choice ... 27.5 percent Undecided .... 2.5 percent Of pro-lifers: Are you in favor of a con­
stitutional amendment making abortion illegal? 
Yes ... 66 percent 
No ... 32 percent 
Of those who were pro-choice: Are you in favor of legalized abortion? 
Yes ... 68 percent 
No ... 32 percent 
Are you for or against a national drinking age? 
For ... 56 percent 
Against ... 44 percent 
Of those in favor: What age should the minimum drinking age be? 
18 . . . 13 percent 19 ... 32 percent 20 ... 4 percent 21 ... 51 percent Are you for or against capital punishment? For ... 39 percent Against ... 56 percent Unsure ... 5 percent 
This is the second in a series of polls on student opinion conducted by The Observer and the Mock Convention. 
The Mock Convention will be held April 4-7 and will parallel the nominating convention of the Democratic party. 
paign posters and platforms. 
Many promises have been made by each of the nine tickets running for the offices of president, vice president, secretary, and treasurer for the class of '87, each fairly similar to the others. 
The largest concern of the can­didates is focused on class unity and making the upcoming sophomore class more aware of events taking place on campus. Class trips, dinners, and masses are a constant among the candidates' promises, but there are also many interesting activities that will set each ticket apart. 
On the whole, the posters express an attitude of hope for success to come, and each ticket asks to become a vital part of the Notre Dame community. 
Elections will be held on March 5 sophomore class offices are as follows, listed in the order: presi­dent, vice president, secretary, treasurer. 
James Domagalski, Anne Jenn­ings, Mark Foley, Davod Miklos. Michael Elliot, Edward Lewis, Francis Zacher), Jane Bailey. 
Bryan P. Fenton, Brian K. Faulkner, Karen Phelps, Kelly Graham. 
Jeff Martello, Joan Harvatn, John Libert, Angela Adams. 
Patrick McCauley, Therese Kraemer, Lisa Meehan, Fritz Duda. 
Michael McNamee, Christopher McLean, Christopher Guarnotta, Francis Malone. 
Thomas Powers, Thomas Sweeney, Mary Carol Creadon, Leah Beth Weis. 
Michael Rensch, Gina Lee, Ig­nacio de Ia Piedra, William Nolan. Joseph Zahm, Hiawatha Fran­cisco, Karen Jones, Joan Carney. 
' 

.ll '\·, 




9:00 · 2:00  $1.00 at the door  
Chautauqua presents:  
It  
Started  
asa Concert  It  
Became a  
Celebratwn  
Tuesday, March 6  Notre Dame  
7.;00, 9:00, 11:00  
Admission $1.00  Student Union  

Friday, March 2, 1984 -Page 3 

Two Democrats drop out of race after severe New Hampshire losses 

Associated Press 
Democratic presidential can­didates invaded the South yester­day with John Glenn proclaiming himself the "new underdog" and Gary Hart saying he would fight for votes in the region. At the same time, two southern contenders were forced out of the race by dismal finishes in New Hampshire. 
Sen. Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina and former Gov. Reubin
Lights out . 
Askew of Florida became the se­
An Albuquerque man lights a kerosene lantern Wednesday mght 
cond and third victims of New
when a power outage affected parts of six Western states, including 
Hampshire voters. 
New Mexico. Brief outages were reported throughout the Albuquerque 
Hollings, who received four per-
area. 

Do You Have What It Takes? to be 
COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON FOR 1984-85 S.U. 
Applications and job des:ription available at 
Student Activities Office Deadline for applicationsisMarch 6 (TuES:Iay) New Committees 
·Personnel ·Publicity ·Musical Entertainment ·Calendar -Student Businesses -Special Events -Cultural Arts ·Ideas and IS!l.les -Movies -Services ·Campus Entertainment 
Spring Break Trip to DAYfONA BEACH Spaces still available call Paul at 283-4358 


"MEET YOUR MAJOR" Sophomores and undeclared 
Sunday, March 4  
Department  Room  Time  
Art Theatre  Room 127, O'Shag Washington Hall  4:00-5:00 PM 5:00-6:00 PM  
Peace (Concentration) sociology Philosophy  Room124,Centerfor Social Concerns Room331,0'Shag Room 331, O'Shag  6:00-7:00PM 7:oo-s:OOPM 8:00·9:00 PM  


~------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JQ~ 
Seniors! ........... 3 Stooges Night Tues. March 6 at Senior Bar Drink Specials and Continous Movies 
Senior Formal Raffle: 1 Free Bid 
2 Second City Tickets 
1 Free Set of Formal Pix 
Come dressed as your favorite Mo, Curly, or Larry 
~ 
§ $ NISZZ s. t;Jm1~
0.. 

~~ Music ComP.etition ·· ·. ·:_:J 
§ -;c~ §
S A f '// t f h f ~
S C S WI COmpe e Or f e top iV~ prizes ~ ,§g Friday beginning at 7pm and the winners will ~ K
;s put on a show Saturday night at 9pm. j
!l 
cent of Tuesday's primary vote, told a Washington news conference the results "got me back to a hard reality." 
Askew got only one percent in New Hampshire and told a Miami news conference, "I tried to be true to myself and my deepest convic­tions." 

Glenn spoke to the Alabama Legislature at the state Capitol in Montgomery, while Hart stopped at the city's airport for a news con­ference at which he said, "I don't expect to be rejected in the South." 
Glenn told the Legislature, "I guess I'm what you would call the new underdog today." The Ohio senator finished a distant third in New Hampshire after winding up fifth in the Iowa caucus~s. 

Hart was the surprise winner of the New Hampshire primary, and the Colorado senator quickly was challenged by Walter F. Mondale to compete for support throughout the South. 
"Well, Fritz, here I am," Hart 

said on his arrival in Alabama. 
"I think the voters of Alabama 

just like the voters of New Hamp­
shire will send a message to the 
Washington establishment and the 
special interests and will not submit 
to insider control of the 
Democratic Party," he added. 
Mondale was in Washington yesterday and planned to campaign in Maine and Georgia today. 
Bowing out of the race, Hollings said, "I announce today that I will be stepping aside as an active can­didate in this presidential contest." 
"It was one of the best educations I've ever had," he added. 
Hollings said he wasn't certain which of the remaining contenders he might support for the nomina­tion. "I won't be bashful," he said, adding that he would announce his choice at the time of the March 17 South Carolina caucuses. 
"The usual statement is 'a funny thing happened to me on the way to the White House,' " said Hollings. "Nothing happened to me on the way to the White House." 
Askew told reporters in Miami that "I believe I succeeded in meeting all my goals, yet I've not succeeded in winning any votes." The former governor said lack of money was the big reason forcing him out of the race before his home state primary March 13. 
"I think I could carry Florida, but it would also require substantial expenditures," he said. "It would put me into substantial debt and I'm not ready to do that." 
Askew sought support in Iowa and New Hampshire by campaign­ing as "the different Democrat." On most issues, he and Hollings were the two most conservative candidates in the race. 

Bubble 
continued from page 1 
Belmear received her Ph.D. in microbiology from Notre Dame in 1965. She was an associate faculty fellow until she left Notre Dame in 1971. Most of her research was in bone marrow transplants. 
"Dr. Belmear actually did most of the work with David," said Pollard. She stayed with him until he was almost five years old. Cur­rently a biology professor at Roswell Park Memorial Institute, she was also for a time at Baylor, where she did research in ex­perimental biology. 
Neither Wilson nor Belmear were in the movie, "The Bubble Boy,'' which starred John Travolta and was about a child with immune deficiency syndrome. Belmear said, "David never saw the movie 
because we didn't think it would have been good for him." She thought that the movie had some "parts that were well done." But she also felt that some of the movie was "a little far out, because :t showed things that just aren't po·,si­ble." 
Belmear said, "We taught David to love Notre Dame; he had Notre Dame sweatshirts and if he had liv­ed we were going to send him to Notre Dame." 

...
----------------------------------------------~~---· 
The Observer Friday, March 2, 1984· -Page 4 
... 
l I. 

Safe Drivingand Clever Thinking Can 

EarnYouThousands! 

Here's a contest where everyone The next step is to complete five arrival at Stroh's Spring Break Welcome:. who enters wins! STROH'S ULTIMATE special contest challenges. Succeed Center in Daytona Beach. 500 lucky SPRING BREAK ROAD TRIP"' is open and you automatically win Stroh's winners each week will 

to all registered students Spring Break T-Shirt and Stroh's also receive a record 
and it's FREE. To enter, Spring Break Survival Kit full of album by artists like 
simply mail us the valuable samples and discount Dean Ray, The Fixx, 
form below. coupons. This prize will be awarded Night Ranger, Real 
For starters, we will upon your Life, Chameleons U.K., 
send you complete con-Tony Carey and Joe 
R 
"~AI Ely from MCA Records 

tips from automotive safety experts, ,AAfl ,1 &.,.. and S.A.R. Records. 
a free ticket for two to our exclusive ...,vP.. · Now, just when you're thinking that this 

spring break premiere from Universal might be the best deal you've ever heard Pictures of "Hard To Hold" starring of, here's the clincher. When you receive Rick Springfield. And, to get your trip your Survival Kit we'll also give you a 
off on the right foot, you --------------------------------------------copy of our spring break will also receive a Mystery Postcard. Be the certificate good for a Free E N T R Y F Q R M first ULTIMATE SPRING Oil Change, Lube and Car BREAK ROADTRIPPER'" Safety Inspection from Yes, I would like to enter Stroh's ULTIMATE SPRING BREAK of the week to solve the 
Goodyear! • Drive smart, ROAD TRIP"'. Please mail m'e my Entry Kit. mystery and we'll hand you have your car in the best $5,000.00. possible condition before a Name ----------------------llli~~~~~iii~§.-J long trip. 
Address 

ADMIT TWO ***************** 
HARD TO HOW 
***************** 
A NEW MOVIE STARRING 
RICK SPRINGFIEW 
From UNIVERSAL PICTURES 

School ________ 
Mall this tonn to: Stroh's Ultimate Spring Break Road Trip 727 Penn Avenue Suite 220 Pittsburgh, PA 15221 

• No purchase necessary. You must first call for an appointment. Offer includes up to 5 quarts of regular grade motor oil and labor. Does not include the replacement of oil filter. Offer only available at participating outlets. This Goodyear offer expires March 31, 1984. 
Attention Students Traveling by Bus. You are Welcome to Enter! 

JOIC. 
The Observer • 
Friday, March 2, 1984 -Page 5 

Men 
continuedfrom page 8 
"Chapman probably is as good an individual player as we've seen all year," says Irish coach Digger Phelps. "He scores, he rebounds, and he makes them go. They're all a tough, hard-nosed group of kids, and they don't ever quit. DePaul found that out the hard way two weeks ago." 
Sedric Toney, a 6-2 junior out of Dayton, adds 10.8 points from the backcourt to go along with the 6.6 of fellow junior Larry Schellenberg. The 6-3 Schellenberg is known for his drive and reckless abandon when out on the court. 
The other Dayton starter is 6-6 Damon Goodwin. The versatile sophomore contributes 10.4 points to the Dayton cause per game. 
As for the Irish, Tom Sluby con­tinues to be the man Notre Dame looks to for the bulk of its scoring. The senior captain is now averaging almost 18 points a game(l7.9) after his 30 point showing last Saturday against Marquette. 
''Sluby probably played his finest game for us Oast Saturday), " says Phelps. "He reminded a lot of peo­ple of Adrian Dantley." 
Tomorrow, it will be to a high degree, a battle between two ex­citing offensive stars in Sluby and Chapman, but there will, of course, be much at stake for the two teams involved. 
Before this season started, Dayton coach Don Donoher asked Phelps to design new uniforms for his team, which the Irish coach agreed to do. "I hope they get uniform of the year," Phelps cracks. "It's -probably the only award I'll get this year." 
Now, near the end of this season, if Notre Dame has any hope of get­ting the award of making the NCAA tournament, it must design tomorrow's game to be a win. 

APR.28 MCAT 


.................................................................................................... 
:Buy : 
: Observer : 
: classifieds:
t.............................................................................................. 
Sophomores and Freshmen 

PHILOSOPHY: Meet Your Majors 
Sunday, Mar. 4 8:00-9:00pm Room331 
O'Shag 


REFRESHMENTS SERVED 
v 

For further information contact : Profs. Tom Morris or Mike DePaul Room 337 O'Shag, 7534 
Vote Jim Hagan for O.C. Commissioner ERective Leadership 
(People pia_...to •ov•ofl-ea•..-•eat --..a.... a•d ._aon ABE ELIGIBLE to vote 
Interested In Taking A Class In Ballroom Dancing? 
Time-Wednesday, March 7 from 6:30pm -8pm Place -Regina Hall Basement Lounge on 
Saint Mary's Campus Teacher-Ray Sexton from Indianapolis Cost -$25.00 for 5 weeks (Skip Spring Break) 
Ifyou would like to join this class, you can 
register at the first lesson 
THIS OFFER IS LIMITED TO NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STU­DENTS ONLY. 
ThisDeskCanBeachMach2. 
Some desk jobs are 
making authority. more exciting than In the air, and on the others. ground, you have 
·• J..s• a Na~y pilot management responsi­or flight officer, your bility from the begin­desk can be a sophis­ning. And your ticated combination responsibility grows of supersonic jet air­as you gain experience. 
craft and advanced electronic equipment. But you can handle it. Because Navy flight training gives you the navigation, aerodynamics and other technical know-how you need. 
In return, Navy aviation demands something of you as an officer: Leadership. 
Your path to leadership starts with officer training that's among the most demanding in the military. It's intensive leadership and professional schooling combined with rigorous Navy flight training. And it's all geared to prepare No c6mf>ai:t'y' &ffi'give you this kind of leadership responsibility this fast. And nothing beats the sheer excitement of Navy flying. 
The salary is exciting, too. Right away, you'll earn about $18,300 a year. That's better than the average corpora­tion will pay you just outof college. And with regular Navy promotions and other pay increases, your annual salary will soar to $31,100 after four years. That's on top of a full package of benefits and privileges. 
Before you settle down to an earth­
you and other college graduates for the unique challenge of Navy aviation. The program is tough but rewarding. 
One important reward for Navy officers is decision-
r -;;V-;0;;0;.;~~ ----;,-;;;1 
INFORMATION CENTER 
I 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 0 Please send me more information about becom-
I 
ing a member of the Naval Aviation Tham. (0A) 
1
Nam"--;;o::::::----:-;;;-:-:-:-::n=:-:-----;-:-::::--­
First IPlease Print) Last Address______Apt. #----1 
City_____State___ZiP---­
1
I Age__tCollege/University·_____ 
I
:j:Year in College tGPA._____I •Major/Minor:___________ I I Phone Number·-,---o;-;-,-----=-,-;;c.---,--~-I 
I 
IArea Code) Best Time to Call This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to 
I 
furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi-
L:::::~:.:~ ______j 




NavyOfficers 
bound desk job, reach for the sky. Reach for the coupon. Find out what it takes to be part of the Naval Aviation 'Tham. You could have a desk that flies at twice the speed of sound. 

,'I
GetBespOnsibilityFast. ' 

,_.-. t ..................... ' ••
r 
The Observer Friday, March 2, 1984 -Page 6 
it's going to be a total, consolidated 
team effort," said DeCicco. "If IC4A Championships 
Foil 

anyone has a bad day for either Wayne State or Notre Dame, then
continued from page 8 

the upper team will seek the advan­

Track team travels to big meet 
to ten while the Irish have captured tage. 
five of these tournaments. In the sabre, the Irish will be represented by three fencers with outstanding records. Leading the way is junior captain Mike Janis (40-3 on the year) along with sophomore Don Johnson at 35-6. Sophomore John Edwards, who has been out of action for the past two weekends due to an ankle in­jury, will complete the trio with his 27-1 record. 
The epeeists will be led by junior captain Andy Quaroni who went 34-3 in the regular season. The lineup will also include sophomore Brian St. Clair (31-9) and freshman John Haugh at 29-8. 
Among the competing Irish foilers will be two U.S. Junior Olympians -sophomore Mike VanderVelden and freshman Charles Higgs-Couthard. 
VanderVelden (32-8) won the gold medal in foil at the Junior Olympics in Portland two weeks ago while Higgs-Couthard led the Irish fencers in wins with a 43-6 record. Senior captain Chris Grady who has been truly impressive late­ly, will anchor the squad with his 29-12 mark. 
According to DeCicco, the tour­nament will be dominated by Wayne State and Notre Dame; however, "a fencer here or there will be competitive." 
"In this particular tournament 

"We match too closely (and) we can't afford the luxury of having one guy slip." 
Besides the men, the lady Irish will also be competing for NCAA bids. The Irish, who ended the season with a 13-5 team record will be represented by three underclassmen. 
Freshman Pia Albertson (37-2) and Cindy Weeks (20-13) along with sophomores Janet Sullivan (21-12) will be trying to overcome an equally strong women's Wayne State team. 
Those who fail to qualify for the NCAA tomorrow will be in action again on Sunday at Northwestern where the final bids for the national tournaments will be announced. 
By JERRY MELIA 
Sports Writer 
"It's a great meet, probably the 
best-the kids will ever run in." 
This is how Irish Track Coach Joe Piane describes the ICAAAA(Intercollegiate Associa­tion of Amateur Athletes of America) Championship. to be held this weekend at Princeton University in New Jersey. 
The IC4A is the oldest con­ference in the country. The Irish will be facing the best competition from 121 schools that will be par­ticipating in this prestigious meet. Unlike the previous meets that the Irish have been a part of this season, an individual athlete must 

Pete Culhane, the Bengal boxer who collapsed shortly after a sparring session, will be released from St. Joseph's hospital today, according to one of the Boxing Club's officers, Angelo Perino. 
Culhane, an MBA student from Seabrook, Tex., suffered a minor concussion Monday, passing out about five minutes after finishing a sparring session with a friend. After finishing the fight and taking off his equipment, Culhane had talked to some of the other fighters before complaining of dizziness. He was on his way to the trainer's room when he passed out. 
He was immediately taken to the hospital where he regained consciousness. His injury was not as serious as had been feared and, according to Perino, was never seriously in trouble. 
"One of the first things he said to me in the hospital was, 'Can I still box?' " said Perino. "He was really disappointed he couldn't fight. He really looked forward to the Bouts. 
"It's really a shar.1e bc:cause he was one of our more talented 160­pounders and he was evenly matched with the guy he was sparring with. He just got hit by a good punch." 

Monday March 5, 7:00p.m. 
GRACE PIT PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
qualify by meeting some very dif­in the mile run. James Patterson 
ficult standards set by the con­will be participating in both the tri­
ference. Qualification is done to in­ple jump and long jump events. 
crease the level of competition. Two Irish relay teams also 
Piane showw pride in his team by qualified for a trip to the IC4A's. 
noting that sixteen Notre Dame Van Pearcy, Dan Shannon, Milt 
athletes will be making the trip to Jackson, and Van Eyken comprise 
Princeton. Most of the schQols par­the mile relay team. The members 
ticipating in the meet rarely send of the distance medley relay team 
half of the Irish total. The number are John McNelis, Tim Cannon, 
of Irish athletes going to Princeton Jim Tyler, and Miller. 
is a credit to both the coaching staff Piane feels his team is about as 
and the team members themselves. ready as they will be this season for 
Representing Notre Dame in the the champioships. As in all sports, sprints are Alvin Miller, 55-meter a team is geared to peak toward the high hurdles, with Allen Pinkett end of the season when playoffs or and Phil Gilmore in the 55-meter tournaments take place. dash. Mitch Van Eyken (400-meter The IC4A and NCAA champion­run), Jim Moyar (1000-meter run), ships are the two most competitive and Jeff Van wie (1000-meter run) meets means that the athlete earns will be competing in the middle the respect of both the coaches and distance events. fellow competitors as well. This is 
The distance events will see because of the high quality of the 
Ralph Caron and Ed Juba in the competition within these cham­
1000-meter run, and Andy Dillon pionships. 

r--------~-------------------, 
Sacred Heart Parish 

LENTEN LECTURE SERIES 
Sister Elena Malitis, C.S.C. on 

"Contemporary Spritualities" 
Sunday, March 4, 8:00p.m. The Crypt, Sacred Heart Church 
L----------------------------~ 
The House of Bernarda Alba 
March 2, 3, 8, 9, & 10 8:00p.m . O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's Campus Tickets $2.50 



For more information call 284-4626 
Black Cultural Arts Festival presents 

''Silhouettes'' 
Student Fashion Show 
"drama of dreams" 
and the 
"reality offashion" 

Saturday, March 3, 8:00pm Monogram Room. Notre Dame A.C. C. Admission: $5 in advance, $6 at the doorJ 
tickets on sale in the Black Studies OftLG~15 O'Shaughnes.sy DANCE FOLLOWS 
Applications for Editor-in-Chief of the 1985 DOME are available in the Student Activities Office in LaFortune. 
Please return applications no later than March 7th. 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. ANDOPENTHEDOORTOATOP ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
How man~· corporations would b~ w11ling to pay you over SIOOO a month dunn,;: ~·uur JUnior dOd senior ~·ears JUSt so you'd join the company alter graduation! L"ndrr a spPc1al \""vy progrnm we·re doing just that. lt"s called the \"uclear Propulsion Officer Cand1date·College Prol(ram . . -\nd undrr 1t. you·ll not onl~· get gr•at pay during your junior and 
•enH;r veor.. but aiter gradu<~t•on you"ll rt-Ceive a vear of valuable l(raduote·ll'Vcl training that is not available from any other employer. 
_J 1,\·ou Hr£' a /U!llOr or senior majoring in math, engineering or phvs1cul '<:ll'nC•'<. find out more today. And let your career pav o~f while 'till 1n collc~e · 
Furmore informrtion. call the !\'a\·al Management Programs Office 
at; 

Call Toll Free 1-800-382-9782 
Navy Representative will be on campus November 30 and December 1, 1983 
-----~--............. _............................. -~--................ _____ _._ ............... ,~ ·-..., .. . 

--. . --~ .. ---.................. ·-....... -. . . . -. . . ~ . . . 







~c:tc:IC3L~------------------~-~---------------------F-r-id_a_y_,M__~_c_h_2_,1_9_84 P_a_g_e_7 
Bloom Connty Berke Breathed 
Campus 
FAG€ fT, f3A!JY. •. 1HAHARLY, 
MY GOP, GWKIA...

1'/r\ SORRY, GLORIA ..• eXCIT7Nf:l, Gf/?{lY PHAS£ OF I WANT OIJT OVR RELATIONSHIP 15 PAST... wr...(}(ff. M ANt7 T WASN'T M~A~ FOR 1HIS l!JN6-1F.RM STUff. . I WAS BORN 7lJ RUN, 8/lfJY.I ~f/N.' ) Mellish GEf. WERt our HEllO, THIS IS 60JIJ,FATHEk,OF IKJsTS. I'D FATIIER fRED FRO/II WE'RE BETTER CAll fHE N.D.. I NEED A FRESH OUT.., DISTRIBUTOR. "KUSH" OIWER IIOWEVff(,f)'E OF WAFERS FOR GCT SQM£) TOI'tJKROWI fifRA CASES MASS, Of Mrt-jf. ·s ~ l \".l i . Guindon Richard Guindon G: ' i~ ""'­. 3·2.)f ~..:..Ed-,-"1;""t,u-ld-yo_u_c-om-e-in-h-er_e_?-,,m-ca_u_g-ht_o_n_th_e__, ~ refrigerator magnets!"  ;6MP1 ;­I~ 5VffOCA17N6! "ACK!;170 YOIJ ReALIZe HOW 11-0 MINUT65. {,()N6 We'Ve KNOWN AIf</\eACH OTH~f? .? 6:30p.m. -Ice Hockey, Central States Con­ference Tournament, ACC d 7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m.-Film, "War Games," ,, Engineering Auditorium, sponsored by Student Union, $1.50 -7 p.m. -Art Opening, Senior Art Com­prehensive, Margaret Young, Hammes Gallery, Moreau 7:30 p.m. -Sophomore Literary Festival, Dave Leon Forest, Library Auditorium 7:30 p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Fitz­OU,IIEY! carraldo,'' Annenburg Auditorium, $2.50GREAT! I1L PEANUT, TAkE 'EM/ OF (OUR5E, 8 p.m. -ND/SMC play, "The House of Ber­l narda Alba," O'Laughlin Auditoriuml Saturday, March 3 4 p.m. -Concert, Graduate Cello Recital, Denise Kuehner, Annenberg Auditorium 7 p.m. -Fashion Show, Black Cultural Arts Festival, Monogram Room, ACC 7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "War Games," Engineering Auditorium, sponsored by Student The Far Side Gary larson Union, $1.50 7:30 p.m. -Sophomore Literary Festival Reading, Student readings, Library Auditorium 8 p.m. -Play, "The House of Bernarda Alba," O'Laughlin Auditorium, $2.50 Sunday, March 4 11 a.m. -Spanish Mass, Farley Hall Chapel 2 p.m. -Art Film, "Edvard Munch," Annen­berg Auditorium, $1 8 p.m. -Concert, Delbert Disselhorst, organist, Sacred Heart Church 8 p.m. Lecture, "Contemporary Spiritualities," Sister Elena Malits, Sacred Heart Church Crypt 8 p.m. • Concert, Michiana New Music Ensemble, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's, $2  
The Daily Crossword ACROSS 37 Spotless 62 Chore 1 Over: Ger. 38 Last: abbr. 5 Covers 39 Vestige DOWN 9 Hound's 40 Geometric 1 Sea wolf quarry forms 2 Johnny 13 Maltreat 41 Snoopy Rebs 14 Correct person 3 Part of copy 43 Vault i.e. 15 Red range 44 Farfrom 4 Onewho 16 Dolphin difficult tells tales 18 Legal 45 Violent 5 Red leader security wind 6 Manona 19 Lynx 48 Mystery pedestal 20 Seed cover writers' 7 Pluto's 21 Move awards counterpart unsteadily 51 Agana land 8 Cruise 23 Polish 52 1 or 66, aides port e.g. 9 To·do 25 Movie 53 Droplet 10 Street "elephant 54 Cellmem· urchin boy" bersof a 11 Wading bird 26 Syngman of kind 12 Fr. magazine Korea 57 Lofty 13 Basics 27 Write fast 58 Nautical 17 lroquoian 31 Eatery direction 22 Drama 33 Fine china 59 Ms. Bayes award 34 Depressed et al. 24 Amish 35 Chill 60 Friend in pronoun 36 Exercises need 25 Teacake ina way 61 Flees 27 Hot  --.. ,. _... .;.. 28 Crybabies 42 Every 12 29 Tribal months history 43 River duck 30 Field 45 Teevees figures 46 Barbecue 31 Plaster item 32 Nome 47 Kinski role home: var. 48 Comical 33 Suspicious Kett 36 Transverse 49 Poker stripe action 37 Pressure 50 Annoy device 51 Feds 39 Ski lift 55 Esk. knife 40 Remark 56 Neckpiece Thrusday's Solution B A T S.R 0 v E S•c H E T 0 T H 0 .E D I l E.A E R Y A L I I .F I R S T c l A S S T E R R A I N. E U R 0 P E.••D E R N.A s p E~ c 0 WE R I N G.s WI FTS D U TOSOS.ER~SIR. GALES U l E M E L B A l CEfAfH• E R L E 0 R D E R S,l!!l S P I N S T E R 1-SLAB'S.MAS H•• .CAT E N A. IM p E D E S S E c 0 N D B A S E.N D L 0 E N ow.R E F E R.E W E R © 1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 3/2184WA R S.A L L All Rights ReservedE y •s N E E  


,----------------------, 
t t
Tonight and Tomorrow Night
I t t t t ,\ ::;· ·"'?.'· -tt 7:00 ,. 
$1.50 t
)":'' 
1..
t .9:00 ri 
Eng t t 1f:'oo t
Aud 
t t t______________________t 
Friday Night Let it Be

SE" 
Import Night

~·'fo
wB.tRR 
Sturday is Business Night Faculty and Students are both welcome. Doors open at 8:00 p.m. 

15 days to 80 days to Spring Break Graduation 
' 
Friday, March 2, 1984 -Page 8 



S~orts 
-~ .......-~·.:,~·-··7~:-.. .,.~}" --~·~.:--~-----------------------------­
'7 

Irish travel to Dayton hoping to help their post-season chances 
By JEFF BLUMB Tomorrow's task at hand for leaves no question as to why that is 
Assistant Sports Editor Notre Dame is Dayton, and that is the case. 
all the team can really concern itself The Flyers' biggest coup this 

DAYTON, Ohio -It might be with for now. The Flyers and their year, of course, is their stunning 
said by some that tomorrow's game fans, but especially ttieir fans, 72-71 upset of then number three 
with the Dayton Flyers doesn't DePaul two weeks ago. Although 
mean a whole lot to the Notre DePaul may have convincingly
The Notre Dame women's

Dame men's basketball team. It avenged that loss four days later,
basketball team will be playing a

surely has an NIT bid sewn up and Dayton's win over the Blue Demons 
the NCAA Tournament is all but Division II opponent tomorrow leaves no doubt that it is a pretty 
out of the question. afternoon, but that does not mean good team. 
But try and tell that to the team. that it will be an easy game for the The man who beat DePaul with 
The Irish certainly must realize Division I Irish. In fact, Mary his twisting jumper with one second 
DiStanislao's squad will be decided the intensity of this annual battle, left is 6-7 forward-center 

especially the significance it takes EdY oung. The Flyer sophomore,
underdogs against its opponent, 

on when the game is played here at who averaged 14.6 points per game 
Dayton, the second-ranked Divi­

the UD Arena. And don't count going into Dayton's 72-61 loss to
sion II team in the country. The

Notre Dame out of the NCAA's Xavier Wednesday night, is best
Flyers, who will be moving up to

just yet. remembered for his saying after the 
Division I next year, are now 24-2

Should the Irish win tomorrow, DePaul upset that he had imagined 
impressively or otherwise, it would on the season and represent a it all in a dream two weeks before. 
give them an 18-10 record on the massive barrier to Notre Dame's Dayton's big gun is senior sw­
season. Although that record hopes for a .500 record. ingman Roosevelt Chapman. The 
would be worse than the 19-9 mark Brooklyn, N.Y., native is Dayton's 
of a year ago, which failed to get all-time leading scorer and is the 
Notre Dame into the NCAA's, always get pumped up for a Notre first Flyer player to score over 
things are not the same in college Dame game, and the rich history of 2,000 points in his career. 
basketball this year. games between the two teams Chapman was averaging 21.6 
points going into the Xavier game, 
a game in which he pulled down 17 
rebounds, !!ight better than his 9.2


Hockey team to play 
average. The fact that Chapman's nickname is "velvet" ought to say


host to CSCHL finals 
something about the way he plays. The fact that he has often been 

By ED DOMANSKY Mike Metzler, and Adam Parsons 
compared to former Georgia star 

Sports Writer will be making their final ap­
and slam dunk artist extraordinare 
pearances in Notre Dame 

Dominique Wilkins ought to say a The Central States Collegiate uniforms. 
whole lot more. 

Hockey League playoffs will be Marquette-The Warriors reign 
see MEN, page S

held tonight and tomorrow at the as last season's regular-season and ACC. Second seeded Marquette playoff champions and enter 1983­will take on third seeded Iowa State 84 playoff competition standing 14­at 6 p.m. The tourney's top seed 12-0 overall and 12-9-0 in the 
Raising money for missions 
Notre Dame will then meet fourth CSCHL. 
seeded Illinois State at 8:30p.m. Marquette is 2-4 against tourna­
Tomorrow, the consolation ment teams. Its only victories com­
game will get under way at 5 p.m., ing by virtue of 6-3 and 7-6 truim­

54th Bengal Bouts set to open 
with the championship contest phs over Illinois State. 
slated for 7:30p.m. Student tickets No scoring totals are available, By MIKE SULLIVAN to help the Bouts regain some of elude Beresford Clarke, the !50­
will cost $1.50 and adult admission but sophomore right wing Dan Sports Editor the popularity they enjoyed in the pound champ from two years ago, 
is $3.00. The tickets are good for O'Grady is listed as the team's late 1970's. Mike Latz, runner-up two years 
both games each night. leading scorer. He tallied two of his Beginning Sunday afternoon and Foremost among the returning ago at 145, Joe Beatty, runner-up 
Notre Dame-The top-seeded team's six goals in its series with ending Friday night, there will be fighters is Perino, a senior who is last year at 155, John Gurganus, a Irish come into the weekend's ac­Notre Dame Feb. 2 and 3. plenty of boxing action in Stepan looking to win his third consecutive talented law student from tion with a 22-4-1 overall mark and Senior goaltender Ken Maziarek Center. No world championship championship at 165 pounds. Only Villanova who will fight at 175, a 13-2-0 record in CSCHL play. has been the Warriors strong man will be on the line, Howard Cosell three boxers have ever won four and Larry Andreini, a 
Head coach Lefty Smith, now in between the pipes. definitely will not be ringside, and times, and Perino will be attemp­superheavyweight who won two 
his 16th year at the Irish helm, is Iowa StatP-Behind head coach there will be no jackpot for the win­ting to join several other fighters as years ago and finished second last 
glad to have the tournament at Jim Kirwan in his first year, the ner. However, the effects of the a three-time champ. However, year. 
Notre Dame, and is anticipating in­Cyclones will arrive at Notre Dame Bengal Bouts will be felt as far Perino himself admits that the 
teresting competition. with an 8-12-Q overall mark and an away as Bangladesh. quality of his competition could The winner of each weight class 
"We're looking forward to the 8-8-0 record in CSCHL play. Fifty-four years ago, Dominic make things tough for him. will receive an award, but, of chance to host a championship Dan Bullard leads the Iowa "Nappy" Napolitano introduced The other two fighters who will course, the real winners will be the playoff here at Notre Dame," he State scoring attack with 39 points boxing to Notre Dame and pro­be defending their titles are Dave missions. Ticket sales are much bet­said. "It will be the first time we've on 15 goals and 24 assists. gram that he started has grown into Packo and Mike Cray. Packo, a ter than last year, but there are still had such a tournament." Holding a 4-3 edge on tourna­an annual event which support the junior, will once again be com­plenty of tickets remaining. Sun­
Notre Dame is 5-0 against tour­ment teams, two of the Cyclone Bengal missions in Bangladesh. peting in the 175-pound class, while day's bouts will begin at I :30 in the 
nament opposition. It has losses came from 4-3 and 6-4 set­The boxing tournament, like the senior Cray will be back at 185. afternoon, while Wednesday's and outscored the three opponents by a backs against Notre Dame. Illinios Bookstore Basketball, is a tradition The rest of the field should also Friday's fights will start at 7:30 38-13 margin. State's 7-6 victory on Feb. lO ac­that is unique to Notre Dame. be very tough. Names to watch in-p.m. 
"This weekend we can't just go counts for the third loss. While the military schools have through the motions," said Notre Mike White is the leading Iowa tourneys of their own, They do not Dame co-captain Joe Bowie. "The State goaltender. He has given up have the type of participation that 

Fencers look to qualify 

other teams will be ready for us. 12 goals in four games and sports a the Notre Dame Boxing Club gets 
We'll have to play like we have 3.0 goals against average. each year. 
been. We'll have to take our shots, Illinois State-Seeded fourth in In fact, the Bengal Bouts' reputa­

for NCAA tourney

skate and do what we do best." the year's playoffs, the Red Birds tion is so great that NBC has 
Right wing Steve Whitmore will from Normal, Illinois will be look­televised the event in past years and return to the lineup after missing ing to improve upon their 14-13-4 visitors to the bouts have included By MICHAEL J. CHMIEL The next eleven finishers in each five games with a severe thigh con­overall total and 10-12-1 record in liminaries such as heavyweight Sports Writer weapon along with five represen­tusion. "His return will help the CSCHL. Illinois State has won champion Rocky Marciano. This Nine Irish fencers will be vying tatives from the Big Ten Tourney solidify the third line again," said six of its last eight games and may year's event will not be televised for berths in the NCAA Champion­will meet Sunday, March 4, at Nor­Smith. "He gives us more size, very well be viewed as the tourna­and Sugar Ray Leonard will not be ship tournament when Notre Dame thwestern where they will be com­speed, and experience that has been ment dark horse. present, but the competition should hosts the 1984 Great Lakes Cham­peting for the six remaining spots in missing the last several weeks." Although the Red Birds finished prove to be the best in a number of pionships tomorrow at 9 a.m. in _the foil, epee, and sabre competi­
In the scoring department co­fifth in the league, they are par­years. theACC. tion. captain Brent Chapman leads the ticipating in the playoffs because "The quality of fighters is really The Irish, who ended their Among the fourteen teams team with 16 goals and 21 assists in first place finisher Alabama­up this year," says one of the Box­regular season over the weekend in represented in the field tomorrow, CSCHL play. Linemate Adam Par­Huntsville chose to host the U.S. ing Club presidents, Angelo Illinois at 19-1, will be facing some the two premiere collegiate fencing sons is next with 16 goals and 20 National Club Hockey Champion­Perino. ''There will be no uneven of the best collegiate fencers from teams, Notre Dame and Wayne assists. ship rather than come to this year's matches this year." across the Midwest tomorrow. State, will be jockeying for position 
AI Haverkamp will start in the playoffs. This year's tournament will in­Fourteen schools will be sending in the national meet. Wayne State, Irish goal tonight. He is 4-0-0 and All four teams in this year's field clude 60 fighters in 10 weight divi­representatives to fence in each last year's national champion, has holds a 1.92 goals against average are capable of playing good hockey sions, a big increase over last year weapon in hopes of gaining won the last six Great Lakes Cham­in CSCHL competition. Tomorrow and with a championship on the when only 46 boxers competed. automatic berths in the 1984 pionships moving their overall total it will be Tim Lukenda or Marc line, the action should be fast and Three champions return to defend NCAA Championship tournament Guay in the Notre Dame goal. exciting all throughout the their titles, but they could be in for to be held March 20-21 in see FOIL, page 6 
Seniors Bowie, Tony Bonadio, weekend. a tough battle in order to atttempt Princeton, N.J. 





