Sorin statue -page 5 


VOL XVIII, NO. 134 tht: indt:pt:ndt:nl ~llldt:lll ncw~paptT ~crYing notrt dame and ~ailll mary·~ MONDAY, APRIL 30, 1984 
Easier book checkouts an expected benefit of library automation 
By FRANK LIPO Approximately 80 terminals will 
SeniorStaffReporter eventually be distributed through­
out the Memorial Library and the 
The Five Year Automation Plan of branch libraries. 
the University Libraries is moving Woods said a machine room has 
.towards its implementation phase. already been built in the Library and 
This plan will improve library ef­co-axial cable has been installed 
ficiency and provide more con­throughout the Library. Assuming 
venient access to library materials. It contract approvaL the computer 
will allow for integration into a will be installed over the summer 
campus-wide computer system. and the data-base will be loaded 
By next January, experimental next fall and worked on internally. 
terminals should be installed. Practi­An assessment survey dealing 
cal implementation of the system, with the future oflibrary automation 
such as choice ofscreens, location of was completed in December 1982. 
terminals and other system features It was decided a new library com­
will be overseen by a Users Commit­puter system would serve many 
tee. This committee will consist of needs. It would have to integrate 
one undergraduate, one graduate present systems, give better access 
student and one faculty member to collection through an alternative 
Fonner Student Senator Dave McAvoy addresses policy protest rally. McAvoy, a senior, worked with from each college. The Faculty Com­to the traditional card catalog sys­
more than 2,000 students assembled in front of the studentgovernment officials in organizing the rally. mittee for University Libraries ofthe tem, convert the card catalogsystem 
Faculty Senate is now choosing this to a computer data-base form, mod­
Administration Building during Friday's alcohol 
committee: Any interested students ernize the system of book loans and should contact the Faculty Senate. manage journal literature It will take time before the system The plan was drawn up with these
Student leaders promote improved 
is fully implemented. The transition goals in mind. It also contained a 
will be gradual. Larry Woods, assis­proposed development timetable 
tant director for automated systems and a preliminary budget for the 
and coordinator of technical entire project. The plan was dis­
services, said, "It will take about two tributed to the entire library staff, By MICHAEL). CHMIEL that would give the student-free Cathy David, student body vice­years until the entire card catalog is University administrators, faculty StaffReporter Campus Life Council power to president, explained, "We came put on data-base. During that time, and students. 
override administrative vetoes here to learn, but rather than being the card catalog will be a sort of 
More than 2,000 students against student policy by a two­educated, we arc being told what to back-up." John T. Ryan Jr. of Pittsburgh, a gathered in front of the administra­thirds vote. According to MeAvoy, think and not how to think." Eventually, Woods anticipates University trustee and president of tion building Friday afternoon as stu­however, the administration David cited a report done on the that someone on the 12th floor of Mine Safety Devices, Inc., earmarked dent leaders rallied the support of rejected this option. "They don't alcohol policy by Dr. Ronald J. the Library, for instance, will be able a gift of more than of 51.5 million for their fellow students in favor oftheir want us to have a vote on student Huntsinger. The report called the to go to the 12th floor terminal and library automation. His funding rights at Notre Dame. policy," said the senator. proposed solution "simplistic and look up the location of a book. This spurred this new automation plan. 
"(Students along with) faculty, ad­Junior Tom O'Leary, this year's punitive". The report described the will save the time ofreturning to th~ The Automation Advisory ·com­ministrators, priests, doctors, psy­Mock Convention Chairman, administration as promoters of al­card catalog on the first floor. Also, a mittee, which had been guiding the <:hologists, lawyers, and alumni have believes Notre Dame student social cohol abuse by confining students to branch library (i.e. the Architecture transttlon, worked out system voiced their displeasure with the life is being threatened by the ad­their rooms. !Jbrary) will have a terminal with specifications with library depart­(alcohol) policy as an ineffective ministration. Ending the rally, Bertino ex­access to the card catalog data-base ments most closely involved. solution and one which was lacking "Social life is more than just beer," plained that students do care and of the main library. Automated library system vendors in student input," said Student Body explained O'Leary. "It's enjoying the expressed disgust with the way the The University also plans to even­were invited to campus to give President Rob B~rtino. company of more than four people alcohol commission was run. "The tually wire all dorms so a student demonstrations. Site visits were 
Freshman Dan O'Brien, one of the at a time." two student representatives on the with a personal computer will be made to other large university initiators of the protests to the new Former Student Body President committee were sworn to secrecy, able to tap into the University com­libraries. policy, explained, "Notre Dame lias Brian Callaghan also believes in a thus shutting ilown any hope ofstu­puter system. With the card catalog Woods said, "We looked at about arrived. We've finally made it to the strong social life and he wants to see dent communication and reaction. on data-base, a student will be able ten different systems." He said care 1960s -now we're only 20 years it at-par with Notre Dame's strong In the final rally, both voted against to look up a book from his/her dorm was given so such a system would behind the times." academic life. the polic-y, yet they were alone in room. meet the assessment goals and still 
"If people expect us to stand up Callaghan, however, discouraged their dissatisfacton. We were vic­Woods revealed another use of be compatible with existing univer­for others' rights, speak out against violent and childish acts. "The tims of legislation without true the new permanent ID card. On the sity computing systems. It must also nuclear arms, protest abortion, and Chicago Tribune blasted us last representation." back of the card will be the "bar be cost effective. fight to end world hunger, then week," explained the former presi­In a press conference after the ral­code" label of the type now found Within these guidelines, a con­these same people must allow us the dent, "but as long as we can show ly, Bertino agreed drunkenness is on any item you purchase at a tract has been negotiated with a chance to speak for ourselves." that we are a classy bunch of stu­immoral but maintained that the grocery store. One function of the computer vendor. Woods said, "It 
O'Brien also expressed an deep dents, we can be proud of our­school's method is wrong. bar code will be to eliminate the wouldn't be appropriate to say concern among students against the selves." ·~ncouragement to have students manual book check-out system. By which one (computer vendor) was new exam policy, the attempt to Callaghan believes the university sit home, in their rooms, will not fall of 1985, a student will be able to decided on at this time" because the close down dorm food sales, has a responsibility to educate its solve the problem." check out books by presenting contract is awaiting the approval of elimination of the Irish Wake and students outside, as well as inside, "(And) if one person gets killed his/her ID. The librarian will pass a the University Computing Policy Polish wedding, and limiting the the classroom. He advocates expan­(driving off-campus), they'll have to "light bar" over the code and the Committee. Woods expects a deci­number of occupants in a student's sion of the roles of the· RAs and rec­look at the issue again. We want to book will be checked out. An in­sion from the committee within the 
room. tors along with help from the terface to the Registrar computer next week and is confident the con­administration. see RALLY, page 3 
social facilities, rights during rally 
"How can we be a university of will allow for easy record keeping. tract will be approved and signed. 
leaders if our mentors expect us to "We need a new student center," be followers?" said O'Brien. "We said Callaghan. "We need facilities to will not stand silent while they make carry on a healthy social life." 
Mondale to speak 
student life worse than it already is." Callaghan also called for a new 
Following O'Brien to the podium commercialized student district was former student senator Dave with restaurants and shops within McAvoy. McAvoy, a key speaker in walking distance of the campus, an 
in Washington Hall 
last week's rally, explained the issue undergraduate club, and opening 
Special to the Observer troduced by Law School Dean 
at hand is student rights. senior bar on a non-alcoholic basis Former Vice President Walter David T. Link. 
"Our freedom as students is being to everyone on Saturdays. 
F. Mondale, candidate for the Mondalc was last in the Souththreatened," said McAvoy. "As of Callaghan also called upon the Democratic nomination for Bend area as vice presidnt at a 
now. we arc even being told that the University to meet with students. 
president, will deliver a Law Day fund-raising dinner for then­
total number of people in one room "Communication and good faith address at 10 a.m. tomorrow in Congressman John Bradcmas in cannot exceed four persons or two have to be met! very soon and the 
Washington Hall. the ACC July I 5, 1978. His last
times the number of students as­universit} .ust take the first step. I The address is sponsored by appearance as a candidate was signed to sleep in that suite." believe the students will react in a the Law School. There will be Sept. 10, 1976, at Stepan Center,"Our basic right to assemble is postttve light if they're shown 615 seats in the balcony open to when, as Democratic vice being violated .. .I can think of no cooperation, if they're shown sup­Walter Mondale the public on a first-come, first­presidential nominee, he gave a greater oppression." port, and if they're shown trust," he served basis. Mondale will be in-foreign policy address. 
.McAvoy also alluded to a proposal said. 
The Observer Monday, April 30, 1984 -··page~2 
' ' 
In Brief 

Awindow in Father Hesburgh's office was 
broken late Wednesday night, April 18, or early the next morning. According to Hesburgh's secretary, both the storm window and the regular window were broken. Glass was shattered all over the office. Security does not know exactly when the incident occurred nor does it have any leads on the case. "Jt's (the case) is pending any further information that may be ofsubstantive nature," said Security Director Glenn Terry. Father Hesburgh was out ofthe country at the time. -The Observer 
Gary llart campaigned among the large Hispanic popula­tion in southwest Texas yesterday while labor leader Lane Kirkland blasted the Colorado senator for goading Walter F. Mondale into returning money contributed indirectly to his campaign by labor political action committees. Kirkland asked whether Hart is suggest­ing "there is a double standard somewhere in the Constitution ­one for sitting senators and another for presidemial candidates that purifies PAC money in the one case bur not the other?" The Rev. Jesse Jackson was campaigning in Ohio and Indiana -states with May 8 primaries -and Mondale was in Washington meeting with dc:legates pledged to him in the District of Columbia's May I primary. -AP 
TheSenate has moved hardy an inch since Tuesday, when it first took up the three-year, 5144 billion deficit reducing package supported by Prt:sidcnt Reagan. Cuts in federal programs arc politi· cally scnsitivt: in a year in which one-third of the scats in the Senate arc up for grabs. Wilh some 38 amendments still pending, it seems likely the Senatl' will spend this emire week on the bill. The Reagan plan would kt defense grow each year by more than 7 percent above the ratl· of inflation. It would freeze most discretionary spending in l98'i and let it grow by the rate of inflation in 1986 and 1987. It would not touch Social Security and other guaranteed-payment bl·nd1t programs. The S 144 billion plan includes a S47 billion tax increasl· already approved. Debate this week likely will center on a bipartisan effort by St:ns. Nancy Kassebaum, R-Kan., Joseph Bidcn, D-Dcl., ami Charles Grasslcy, R-lowa, to freeze all federal spending across the hoard for a year. Sponsors claim the measure would rl·dun· the dctkit about S23 billion more than the administration plan. -AP 
The United States secured a nuclear coopera­
tion agrn·mcnt with China on Monday, launching what President Reagan tcrml·d "a new dimension ofpeaceful cooperation" between the two nations. The president witnessed the initialling of a pact, three years in the making, that opens the door for the sale df U.S. nuckar energy sales to China. Before his departure for Shanghai and the last day of his China trip, Reagan said in remarks prepared for delivery at the signing ceremony in the Great Hall of the People, "Our agrct:ment is basl·d on our shart·d dt:sirc to prevent tht: proliferation of nuclear l'Xplosives in the world, and it brings a new dimt:nsion of pt:act:ful coopt:ration to our relationship." Although ditferenct:s over Taiwan cast a shadow over the president's visit, Reagan's last act in Peking was to sign accords ending a year-long chill in <:ultural rc:lations and averting double taxation for U.S. firms opl·rating in China. -AP 
Of Interest 
A letter to all students stressing the course of ac 
tion to be takl·n regarding the alcohol policy will be distributed tonight throughout all the dorms. Students arc requested to sign this letter if they wish to support the efforts ofstudent government and return it hy tomorrow night in their respective halls. Student govt:rnmcnt rl·presentatives will present them at the Campus Life Council meeting Wednesday as a sign of student support. -The OIJsen,er 
Weather 

Watch your head! Chance of severe 
lhundnstorms wilh rain and possihk hail showers 
today. Tl·mpnaturl·s willlw cool with a high of 'i'i. 
-The ( )IJserl'er 

The Observer 
The Observer (I Sf~ ~·N ~ ..,ooo) i' puhli~ht·d Monc.J;.~~ lhrough l·ric.lav and on home: (oothall ~atunJay:'\, t·xn:pl durinJ( c.:x01m and VJl"Jtion pt·riod~. The Observer i~ puhli~hnl h~ lht: ~tudt.·m~ ol lht· I 'nivc:r~ily of Nntn: Dantt· and Saini .\1ary\ <.'olkp;t· !'tuh~·t:ription:'-1 rna~ tw pun:hast:d for Sl«i pt·r ~Tar (SIc; pt·r 
•cm•·•tcr) b\' wntinf( The Observer, 
P.O. Hox Q, Notrt.· Oamt.·. lndioma ·46c;«;(l 
The Observer;, • mt·mh<.·r ofThe As­
sociared Prrs..~. All rt'proc..lunion r•Rht~ 
are rcsc:rvl'lJ 

._ .....-·.;..'_._'.;.'-'.;.1;..;..'--'-------· 
Today·s i~!loUl' was produce() hy: 
Dt•slgn Edit11r .................... Troy Illig Desl/1,11 Assistmll....... ..... Paul Bruce l.t~l'lllll Staff ................. Cheryl and Kathy TI'P<'S<'IIers ..................... Michelle and Ted SlolmtuJ .................................... Steve Foster N£•u•s l:'ditor... .Tom Mowle C:ofJI' liditor... . ............. Juli<· Smith .\fwrts Co/JI' Editor................. Ed Konrady Vieu.•poinf l.ayout ............john Mennddl 
Fealures Co/1)1 Editor ............. Mary Ut'aly Features Lt~vout ........... Liz Carroll NO /hi)' l:'ditor..... ........ Earlllakcr .\MC: Dt~l' l:'ditor.... ..................Jody Radler Ad Oeslgn ...................................... Bob Slota Photowapber... .......... Thorn Bradley 
............... . 
Final exams: Another issue to protest? 
Lately the campus has been in an uproar over the new 
alcohol policy. Notre Dame is absorbed in banners, 
firecrackers, sit-ins and rallies. Amid fiery protests and 
the rage over a "paternalistic" administration, another 
example of paternalism has been largely overlooked ­
the new final exam policy, passed on April 10 by the 
Academic Council. 

The passage of the exam policy just before the new rules on alcohol indicates a brilliant sense of timing. Surely if it hadn't been for the "double whammy" stu­dents would be putting up an energetic battle against the council's decision. As it is, exams have taken a back seat to alcohol. Students can no longer alford to ignore this additional example of administrative overbearing that will have so great an influence on their future workloads and grades. 
The exam policy was recommended by the Commit­tee on Final Examinations -a committee comprised of six faculty members and no students. A lack ofconcern for student input was also 
Mary Healy 
Features Editor 
Inside Monday 

portance of these and the incentive to do well. Heavily weighted finals will only aggravate problems for stu­dents who have exam-phobia, who "go blank" when they don't know the answer to the first question, who don't test well, or who simply are having a very bad day. From now on they will often be judged less on the ac­cumulated work ofa semester, which averages out over time, and more on a chancy, two-hour pressure test. One day should not have such an unbalanced influence on the evaluation of an entire semester, and many teachers, those who up to 
apparent on the part of the now have scrapped finals or Academic Council, which made them non-cumulative, heard a Student Senate rep­feel it should have very little. resentative but made no Senior exemptions arc a changes based on his objec­long-standing and tihte­tions. Those whom the honored tradition at the Uni­policy will effect the most versity. They have now been had little say in its formation. taken away for no ohv~us 
Among other measures, reason other than that ex­the new policy changes final ams are "important" This exam values from the old change will cause a mul· limit of zero to one-third of titude of prohlems and in­the grade to a range of one­conveniences for future fifth to half of the grade. It seniors. The end of senior 
abolishes senior exemp­year is one of the busit:st tions, and makes finals man­times in people's lives. Many datory unless exceptions are have MCATs, LSATs, GMATs, approved by the department or GREs to worry ahout, as 
chairman and reviewed by 
the dean. 

Like the alcohol policy, the exam policy is hasty and flawed. Unlike the alcohol policy, which was developed over a long period of time to try to correct an ack­nowledged problem -alcoholism on campus -the ex­am policy did not arise out of a bad situation. It was formed within two months and contained few explana­tions for why it was needed. 
What was wrong with the old exam policy? What major problems did it cause? Were students or faculty objecting to it? None of the changes adopted seems to address a real problem, but each can cause great dif­ficulties for both students and faculty. 
The rationale given by the committee for the weight­ing change hegs the question: "Given the singular importance of final examinations, they ought to be allowed more weight in determining final grades." Why should policy dictate to teachers how important finals are? In many classes, papers and quizzes arc given often, and overweighting the final detracts from hoth the im-
COUNSELJNE 
A service to the NO comfRunlty 
239·7793 
HOURS: 4-10ptn Mon·Thurs. Counsehne ··~a free, confidential telephone service I hal alters profess•onally raped materials that 
cover a wtde.vanf'!~.~!..~.ludent concerns 
TAPE NO TITLE 1 Fuendthtp ButldiRQ 7 Deeltng w1th ConSifuct•ve Cr.hc•sm lJ Oealtng Wlfh Anger 9 Underl!and•no Jealoua,y Jna How 
to Deal ••II"• II 10 HO* to S.y ..No· 1& Becommg Open to O&hers 18 Dattng Skti!S lO Amwtty and PosSible Ways to Cope 
Wtfhll l2 How to Deal wtlh lot'lhness 33 How to Handle Fears l5 8UIIOtng seti·EIIHm & Conhdence 37 Aelaxtng hercta~s 
38 Copmg wtlh Slress 39 Female Sex Role· 
Changes and Stress 44 Learnmg to A.cc.ept Yourself 61 What•s Therapy & How to use It 83 How to Cope Ill tit". a BrOken 
Retat•ortsh•P 85 Understanilmg Gr•el 90 Hetp•n~ a F11ena 160 Early s•ons of an Alcohol Problem tftt Responstble OeCtStons About 
Drm~•ng 
-402 Seii·Asse•t•vel\f'ss 431 Wh81ls Oepress•on 432 How to Deal w11h Oeprestuon 4l3 Oepress•on as • Life Style 478 Becom•ng Independent trom P•rem~ 479 Oeahno w•th Alcottollc Parents 491 Su•c•aal Crtsia 4il Recognw.,g Suic•dat Potential 
•nOthers 4iJ HeiPII\V Sam~.'!" .• Su1c1dal Cns11 
Counaallnels e completely anonymous servoee oflel'8cl by the Counseling I Psychological Services Center. UNO 
For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between9-5 
--CLIP AND SAVE-­


well as job applications and 
worrying about where to 

live. Final exams will indeed be a heavy and unnecces­
sary burden. 
l11c justification for all these changes appears weak, if not nonexistent. Is Notre Dame simply trying to en­hance its academic prestige. in facile and ineffective ways, at the expense of fairness to students? There arc many better and less burdensome ways to do this, such as increasing faculty salaries or strengthen major re­quirements. 
According to Faculty Senate Chairman Mario Borelli, no review of the decision is possible. Student Body President Rob Bertino agreed that any appeal would be worthless. But the same was said of the alcohol directives, which are even now being revised. Students must at least examine the worth of the new policy which has been out of the limelight so far, and loullly make their opinions heard to an administration which would be much more comfortable making policy with­out the annoying objections ofits students. 

Outward Bound is more than  Hang In there!  Outward Bound, Dept. CH.  
a trip of high adventure.  Send for more lnfonnatlon:  384 Fl~ld Point Rd. Gre•nwlch, c;T 06830  
It's discovering yourself.  Phon~ toll free (800) 243-8520  
Learning that you're better than  
you think you are.  
And finding out how to work  Stree-t  No f'Xpc!'rienn-neceuary. Outward Bound admlf& studf'nts olany  
with others.  HK, race, color and national or ethnic  
Come join us on a wilderness  Clly  State  Zip  ~~~~~h::::..,:~~~~~~~ organUatlon  
trip ofexcitement and  School  
self~challenge. You may come back a better you.  Check the courses that lnternt you: Ca~lng Oe.ert EKpedltlom;WhiteWater  ...,RD~  
Rafting  Wllderm-.11  
Sailing  Backpacking Mountaineering _  •  Outward Bounc:f The course Ihat never end•  
.. ........... p............. . ...  

The Observer Monday,April30, 1984-page 3 
Milani fund collection continues 
Pre Professional Society 
Elections 
All those interested in running for office for the Pre Professional Society must meet at 6:00p.m. Monday, April 30, at the information desk in LaFortune. If you can't attend this meeting, call Julie Junkins at 283-6798. 

ATTENTION SENIORS 
Senior Formal candids will be on display TODAY in the North Dining Hal/from 4:30-6:30 and TUESDAY, MAY 1, in the South Dining Hall 4:30-6:30 and in LeMan's Hall at SMCfrom 
7-9/P.m. 
PAY WHEN ORDERING-$1.85 
THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA &PUB 
"BRUNO~" 

THIS MONDAY ONLY BRUNO will deliver a 16"pizza with 1 toppine for only $6.95 Each additional topping $1.00 extra 
Order 2--$1 offtotalprice 
Order 3--$2 offtotal price 4 or more--$3 offtotal price  
Mon -Ib.urs 4..JOPM  Fri-Sat Until12 am 277-4519  277-4519 -()pen Sunday 4-10 pm  

'~Got to tell somebody!" 
LIVE DRAMA PRODUCTION 
In this po.,.,erful dum.ll produCiion, je,us ruches oul to our lost world. Your hurt v.ill be stirred wittt new p.1triotic ,appreci.Uion .n tribute is p,aid to thi!. nition 1nd cultures ,around the atobe are hiJhliahted. Journey through the music 1nd ~~oct in& bick 2,000 years u John the 9Jptis1 prcpun the way ror the cominJ Musi1h. Tt'len return to the present ... to T•ll SorrNbody About Him. 
You won't want to miss this heart­warming drama! 
Youth Arm Day 
LIVE ACTING 


FRIDAY -MAY 4th NOTRE DAME A.C.C. -7:00 P.M. 
DON'T MISS THIS DYNAMIC PRODUCTION-VIEWED BY THOUSANDS ACROSS AMERICA 


ByPATSAIN 
Senior StaffReporter 
More than I00 hours of Shakespeare's plays have been read during the past week to raise money for Adam Milani, a high school senior critically injured in a hockey game on December 7. 
Milani is the son of accounting Professor Kenneth Milani and Joan Milani, Pre-Cana coordinator for Campus Ministry. He has been undergoing physical therapy at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago since the accident. 
Milani was injured in a hockey game against Culver Military Academy when he went after a puck and was knocked down against a ledge inside the rink. The impact crushed a vertebra in his neck, leaving him without movement from the chest down. 
Milani, a senior at St. joseph's High School, plans to attend Notre Dame next year. He has been named aNa­tional Merit Finalist, and a Notre 
Dame  Scholar.  Currently.  he  is  
finishing  one  course  he  needs  to  
graduate.  


Money raised by the Shakespeare marathon will be used to help pay for therapy, two wheelchairs; a modified van, and an addition to the first floor of the Milani house. 
In an interview with the South Bend Tribune in February, Milani said ''I'm working on things like brushing my own teeth, brushing my own hair ...mainly fine motor skills." He is also practicing using tools for writing and typing. 
The physical therapy lasts three hours a day, Professor Milani said, and emphasizes strength and balance. "He can now transfer him­self from his wheelchair to his bed," Milani said. 
"The Shakespeare reading is an outpouring of affection and love ... it would be impossible to thank everybody involved," Milani said. "We want to extend our apprecia­tion to everyone involved." 
Spinal cord research is still in its infancy, said Milani. "There is still hope that some of the techniques that will be perfected in the next few years will be ofbenefit to Adam," he said. "Along with the technology 
and techniques there is the Maker, also." 
Milani plans to live in St. Edward's Hall on campus next year, where his brother Michael lives. An advantage ofSt. Ed's, Milani said, is that renova­tions after the fire four years ago made most of the building acces­sible to handicapped people. 
Modifications, such as an 

automated front door, are still being 
proposed, said Milani. 
Money raised by the Shakespeare marathon will be put in the Adam Milani Fund to help pay for Milani's therapy and manual and electric wheelchairs. The electric wheel­chair will be used by Milani to go to classes. 
The money will also help buy a modified van with an extended roof and a lift for Milani's wheelchair, said Professor Milani. The van will even­tually be modified so his son can drive it. 
The Fund will also offset the cost ofan addition to the Milani house for Adam. 
Donations can be given to the Bet­hany Guild/Adam Milani Fund at Sacred Heart Parish. 
CILA to protest dining hall firings 
AMY STEPHAN 
AssistantNews Editor 
CILA will sponsor a protest of the allegedly unsubstantiated tiring of five dining hall workers last Novem­ber in front of North Dining Hall tomorrow. 
Fifty or 60 students are expected to picket and distribute fact sheets tomorrow during lunch hours, said Nancy Brennan, a CILA education of­ficer and co-organizer ofthe event. 
An organizational meeting for those interested in participating will be held tonight at 7:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. CILA also in­tends to invite interested dining hall workers to picket. said Brennan. 

Student awareness and education are the main goals of the display she said, adding the protest is intended to demonstrate solidarity with the fired workers. CILA is also drafting a letter to Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, which they hope will encourage him to re­examine the issue, said Brennan. 
Two pantry workers and three managers were fired last November for their role in an alleged plot to ex­tort money from another worker. The pantry workers were accused of the actual extortion, while the 

Tuesday, May 1 11:30-1:30 
Alicia Garcia invites you to a Spanish LUNCH at the Centerfor 
Social Concerns 
Ensalada  Salad  
Pan  Bread  
Carbona~a  Vegetable Soup  
Macedonia  Dessert 

, 

Te-Cafe Cost: $2•50 Tea or Coffee Live Spanish Music Served on the Patio (weather permittingJ 
TRUCK LEASING, INC. 710 N. Niles Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-5871 
c 

0 .HEBTZ N Y_ENSKE 
G 

ONEW~
R 

JBUCKS
A T 

u 
Special Discounts for N.D. and SMC Students 
Must book 7-10 days in advance L $100 DEPOSIT REQUIRED 
A 

TIONS CLASS OF '84 

managers were fired because the dining hall administration claims they knew of the extortion and took no measures against it. 
But in a March 19 Obsen•er ar­ticle, William Hedl, a University security investigator assigned to the case, said there was "no evidence of any wrongdoing" on the part of the pantry workers and security "was not involved at all" in examining the role ofthe three managers. 
There are court cases pending against the University because of these firings, Brennan said. Ron At­hey, assistant director of Notre Dame Food Services refused to con­firm or deny this. 
Brennan said the protest is in­tended to "expose the injustice to the people in the dining hall," claim­ing they were denied rights guaranteed by the University. The official employees relations hand­book of Notre Dame states all workers are entitled to an oral warn­ing, a written warning and a suspen­sion before being fired. 
"The issue has been lagging," said Brennan. CILA tried to organize a discussion group on the issue, but had difficulty convincing untenured faculty members to participate, she said. 
Brennan does not foresee any 

conflicts over the demonstration. 
"We're not going to storm the dining 
hall," she said. 
Tomorrow was chosen for the protest because it is International Worker's Day, Brennan said. Fifty­one years ago tomorrow Dorothy Day distributed the first copies of The Catholic Worker in Washington Square in New York City. 
William Hickey, director of Notre Dame Food Services was not ap­proached for comment because he is recovering from a heart attack suf­fered last week. 
Athey, the assistant director, refused to comment on the protest because of legal complications and because he says he was "not in­volved that much" in the firings. 
Rally 
continuedfrom page 1 
discuss the issue before anyone gets killed." 
For the near future, Bertino hopes to meet with University President Father Theodore Hesburgh early this week. He also hopes to present an appeal to the Board of Trustees before the.s_e]l!~S!<;t: <;q<!s: • _•• _ . 
~i~~~_()__l_._Jl__t___________________M_on-da~y,A~p-ril-30~,1-98-4~~~~-4 
ROTC is the service 
P.O.BoxQ 
A person who tendered such a solution in
of war-making 
Alcohol at tailgaters 
the real world of business would find a rapid 
Rect"ntly I had occasion to enter my son, Christian, in a new school. It happens that tht" bt:st elementary school in our new town is lloly Trinity Catholic. My wift", Gt"nk, and I vbited the plan· and. of course, noticed the large statue of Jesus in the "sacred heart" motifstanding by tht· entrance way. 
Just across tht" hall was a poster on the wall which read "God bless America" with a 
William Durland 
Guest column 
picture of the American flag. As we accom­
panied our son to his room on his first day, we 
passed a room full of children plt.-dging al­
kgit'ncc to the !lag of the llnitcd States. 
That is how it all starts -pledging al­kgicncc to a fordgn power. A power foreign to Christians is no less than an idol. Pledging allcgience includes obeying orders. if and wht·n givt"n, to kill thost" dcsignatt·d enemies. I know, ti>r I took such an oath contrary to the teachings ofJesus (:\it. "i:.3."') when I st·rvcd in tht" military both a~ an t·nlisted person and as an officer. 
But I had an t·xcu~t· then. I did not know about the tt·achings of .Jt·sus prohibiting the ust· of vioknce by his ti>llowcrs, although I was raised in tht· Church. 
The basis ofChristian refusal to honor such a st·rious secular command is not found in the rationak usually assunll'd by fellow Christian militarists. The Christian docs not nt:ccssarily believe that the AmtTican military t·stablish­mcnt "promotes or ti>stcrs war." Although today, American "first strike" weaponry and Ct·ntral American adventurism suggests just that. The Christian docs not ignore Russian t•xpansionism or "the evils of Soviet socialism," nor is the Christian unaware oftht· 
"protection" militarism claims to provide. 
For Christians, tht· point is much deeper. Reserve Officers' Training Corps Catholic campuses in the same way abortion clinics or dt-ctric chairs do not belong on Catholic campuses. This is ht-causc to kill one's enemy ratht·r th:m to love one's t·nemy is to sin against God and his son's teaching, practice and Vt:f\' lit<:. 
At best, ROTC is, in tradi<ional Catholic ter­minology, an "occasion ofsin." I was tempted hy that occasion at age 12 when I first joined ROTC at Admiral Farragut Military Academy. It is the occasion to think oneself ht:ttcr than 
others even to the extent of taking another's 
life if ordered. Christians should not seck 
military protection against enemies, for Christ 
is our protection -not bombs or bullets! 
When I taught at Villanova University in the religion department in 1979 and 1980, the issue ofROTC was examined in the University newspaper, The Villanovmz, over several weeks. During the course ofthe debate, a dear friend of mine, Father Richard McSorley, a professor of theology at Georgetown wrote to The Villam)llan that "ROTC on a Catholic campus is a scandal in the deepest theological scnst" of the word. Namely, under the guise of good -humanizing the military -we ed­ucate youth to kill and destroy." 
It is irrelevant that we arc threatened by communists. i'or our security lies not in the military of any nation hut in the Kingdom of God. If we wish to live in the Kingdom, we must return good for evil, not resisting the evildoer with violt.-nce and war, even in our own defense, but with active love ( Mt. "i:38­48 ). Jesus killed no one but was killed (as were Gandhi and King). No-legalistic proof­tcxting will alter the truth that to be a Catholic Christian means to live a radically different life than the one the military calls us to live. 
I do not condemn anyone in the military. I 
once was there and did "good" things during 
my tour of duty. fortunately. I was not or­
dt:rcd to kill anyone. My beliefs arc not a 
criticism ofindividual militarists -we cannot 
judge their hearts, but we can judge such ac­
tions by the Gospel. In a way, we arc called to 
choose between "services" -the service of 
war-making and the service ofpeacemaking. 
If there is indeed an anti-military attitude at Notre Dame concluding "that military service is incongruous with good Christian living" (The Obsen,er, Hamilton, March 12, 1984, p. 6 ). then I say, as a former teacher of theology at Notre Dame, that the service ofpeace is not incongruous with good Christian living. 
Those who teach otherwise on our Catholic campuses must keep in mind the words of Jesus concerning the teaching of young people (who may well be the future innocent victims ofour nuclear holocaust inclinations): "whot·ver causes one of these little ones who believe in mt: to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened round his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea." ( Mt. 18:6). 
William Durland is an attorney and tbl.'ologian and has published ser,eral works on pacifism. 


DearEditor: 

It is with relief and hope that I receive the llniversity's new policy concerning alcohol and ND students' social life. My reliefthat mar­ginal social interaction has finally been overcome by the solution oflimiting the num­ber ofpeople in a room spurns new hope that the administration will strike at the heart of the problem: alumni drinking at tailgaters before football games. Hao;n't the proper ex­ample set by Stephen Rcn and Mark Kirasich from the class of 1982 been learned? 
The sooner this across-the-board policy is implemented, the quicker the University can hold its head high. Let's not put our sense of right on hold during certain football weekends or is the pen that signs the donation checks mightier than the wrong of having three people in a single room? 
job change in order. 
Michael Welch ND class of1983 

Rector bans banners 
DearEditor: 
We, as members of Saint Edward's Hall, would like to show our support for the stu­dent body's efforts by openly displaying our disapproval of the administration's alcohol policy. llnfortunately, due to a statute set forth by our rector, we arc not allowed to hang banners of any kind from our windows. Therefore, we are not able to comply with Stu­dent Body President Rob Bertino's request that a banner hang out of every dormitory window. 
32 St. Edward's Hall residents 

Reagan is the great escape artist 
W ASIIINGTON -Harry Houdini, the Great Escape artist, has been upstaged by Ronald Reagan. Houdini -at least in the movie I saw -went into a river encased in something like a safe, his hands cuffed behind him. Moments later, he emergt:d. 
Reagan though bound and gagged by two congressional resolutions week, got more money for his Central American adventures 
Richard Cohen 
The Cohen column 
anyway and popped up in China. Welcome the Great Rondini. 
Reagan has become the Great Escape artist ofour times. He has two bask tricks. The first is your basic now-you-see-him, now-you­don't maneuver. The President brought down the house with that one when he finally or­dered the Marines withdrawn from Beirut. 
The audience, knowing that the Great Ron­dini had said that he was not going to be pushed around by terrorists, thought they were watching intently. But suddenly the Marines were gone. And so was the Great Ron­dini. He popped up in Santa Barbara. When he returned to Washington, it was as if nothing had happened. 
The President pulled off the same trick again recently. When it was reported in the press that the CIA had directed the mining of ' three Nicaraguan harbors, Congress voted its indignation -and also failed to vote the funds the President wanted for El Salvador. The Great Rondini did his number. He dispatched the money anyway -and then siipped out of town. When last seen, he was walking around China. 
The second trick ofthe Great Rondini is his ability to make everyone forget. It is often said that the Great Rondini himselfis forgetful, but if that is the case he ha~ turned his personal affliction into an epidemic. The Great Rondini campaigned, after all, on a platform of balanc­ing the budget. He actually lambasted Jimmy Carter for running up a S29 billion deficit. This year, the budget deficit is expected to be 
S200 billion, but the Great Rondini has made 
everyone forget what he said in the campaign. Similarly, the administration of the Great Rondini has again declared a war against state-
sponsored terrorism. This news was greeted with great excitement a couple of weeks ago by some newspaper editors who placed the story on the front page. 
The Great Rondini madt: them forget. A war against terrorism was declared when the ad­ministration first took office. In fact, it wa~ made the number one priority. The war was declared again after both the American Em­bassy and the Marine barracks were bombed in Beirut and now it has been declared one more time. 
Remember school prayer? The Great Ron­dini ha~ made us forget that also. For weeks, the issue tied up Congress, had lawmakers at each other's throats, had the President talking about God being banned from the schools and the country slipping into irreversible and pos­sibly terminaL moral decay. Now no one, lea~t of all the Great Rondini, mentions it. He is on to other matters. 
The list of things the Great Rondini ha~ made us forget is long. It inciudes the basis for his economic and tax program, which at one time was investment-based, then consumer­based and then turned out to be a variation of that old Democratic standby, Keynesian economics -a recovery fueled hy mao;sive deficit spending. 
It includes even Lebanon, which at one time was the keystone of the entire Middle East, and which, if it fell would topple dominoes down to Saudi Arabia Suddenly, though, Lebanon is not that important anymore and Saudi Arabia -as opposed to American foreign policy -stands tall. 
The Great Rondini apparently learned I1is tricks back in his days as a motion-pit:turt: and television actor. What matters is the establish­ment of character -not continuity from either picture to picture or episode to episode. And the President ha~ certainly es­tablished his character. 
It is one Americans seem to like, even love. Being a ma~terful magician, the President keeps our eyes on him and not what he docs. Call it sleight of policy. 
And so now the Great Rondini is now performing in China. By the time he returns, Congress will have forgotten it is angry with him over Central America. But even if it still is, the Great Rondini will distract it. Maybe he'll declare war on terrorism. 
1984, The Wasington Post Company 
The Observer  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller . . . .  . .. Maripat Horne  
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor. ....... Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor .............,Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager .......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the polic1es of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan  
present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor . .. : .......... Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
IS encouraged  Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Showcase 
Memories or disillusionment? 
by Chris Fraser 
features columnist 
I 
remember when I was a new freshman nearly four years ago, a 
senior in my hall took a bunch of us out to buy some beer. More 
precisely, he went into the liquor store while we waited eagerly in 
his car. Upon our return to campus, the seniorwarned us to be care­
ful because we might get in trouble ifcaught brnging in cases of 
Lager. As green as we were, we slyly scampered in, carefully check­
ing each corner for RAs and rectors on the prowL 
Well it was just a few days before we understood that the wool had 
been pulled overourfreshmen eyes, and that, in fact, we could bring 
in as much alcohol as we wanted so long as we did not attempt to 
consume it in the hallways. 
Even so, we were certain that the administration was too restrictive and paternalistic. We were distraught because we couldn't have kegs and many of us were surprised by the concept of parietals. But one thing we were was optimistic. We thought things would change for the better; we believed some ofthe rules would fade as Notre Dame entered the 80s. 
Little did we suspect a day would come when a beer run might well have to be a clandestine operation, a day when students would be told what they could and could not do during spring break in Ft. Lauderdale. 
I tell this story not to make another passionate argument about why the administration's new alcohol policy is a mistake (although I could make several)but rather to point out what a friend ofmine calls the dilemma ofNotre Dame. 
The dilemma ofNotre Dame is something seniors begin to face as graduation nears. On one hand, we may have begun to look at our school nostalgically. We remember the many good times we've had and the many close friends we've made. We want to look at our col­lege days as a fun and exciting period. We want to call the Fighting Irish our team from our great school. 
On the other hand, the administration certainly forces many of.us to leave with a bad taste in our mouth. And sadly, the new alcohol policy is only representative ofthe problem. At a time when social life is approaching a low, we have seen the administration re-issue a demand for harsh punishments for parietals violations. Ofcourse, this does nothing to prevent the clever couple from spending the night together but it surely does stop a co-ed study session or a round ofTrivial Pursuit from extendingbeyond the bewitchnghour. As well, we have seen any hope for co-ed dorms -a responsible solution to many ofthe real social problems on campus-fade into oblivion. 
We see that women are still treated as second-class citizens, ad­mitted on a limited basis. More than a few ofus have seen our favorite professor denied tenor and forced to move on --sometimes for questionable reasons. And above all, we have constantly sensed an administration's attitude toward us that suggests we are incapable ofdealing with the world, that we must be sheltered, protected, and, when necessary, punished. Such treatment can bring advantages: we would often rather deal with the administration than with the South Bend police and few ofus haye complained about receiving maid or 
laundry service. But finally, it is a degradingand insultingattitude to 
take toward college students. 
The dilemma, then, is one ofmemories versus disillusionment. A look at past graduates tells us that the memorieswill be embellished and the disillusionment will fade. We want to come back and enjoy the football games and see our old friends. Problems with student life and administration attitudes will no longer affect us. And so we will come back with green pants, visit our old rooms and tell the stu­dents how good they have it. We will laugh about the tricks we used to sidestep keg or parietal rules and we may even encourage our kids to follow us here at Notre Dame. 
The University understands all this and they have wasted no time in asking the seniors for their first alumni contributions which are necessary in order to receive any football tickets. And many ofus will give because we want to see our friends and remember the good times. And in doing so we will provide the lifeblood for the perpetua­tion of the University's attitude toward the students. As the years go by, the dilemma becomes less diffcult to confront: we remember less and give more. 
Unfortunately. forgetting one ofthe horns does not really resolve the dilemma. I believe it is important for us to make our decision about contributing responsibly, on the basis ofhow we feel the Uni­versity is educating, and not merely to get football tickets. It would be juvenile not to give simply because we disagree with an alcohol policy but it is our only recourse not to give if we see evidence ofa widespread administrative attitude that conflicts with our idea ofa university. 
It is a matter that each senior must decide for him or herselfand it is something that should be given some serious thought. 
I would like to thank anyone who basgiven my columns a bitof attention over the past two years. I wish all the seniors the best of luck in the future. 
. -.... -. 
.. ... -·--... .• : ... -~----·----... ·,_ ·, "o~..'& •• -....... ·-~
.... " ." ......... . 

Monday,April30, 1984-pages· 
Owing up to an age-old cri111e 
by Keith Picher 
features staff writer 
T
hirty-two years after capturing a 
four-foot bronze statue ofNotre 
Dame founder Father Edward Sorin 
and hiding it for a semester, two 
pranksters have finally admitted to 
the crime, prompted by a recent ar­
ticle in Notre Dame Magazine. 
The mastermind, Chamillus Witzleben '53, decided to pull off the caper on a frigid moonlit night just prior to Christmas vacation in 1952. A former resident ofAlumni Hall, Witzleben is now ChiefofPat­hology at Children's Hospital in Philidelphia and a professor at the University of Pennsylvania. 
Witzleben was on his way to the post office (now the Knights of Columbus building) to mail some Christmas cards when he spotted the 1905 Biondi masterpiece sitting on the steps of the building. 
His accomplice, Edward Manier '53, was studying physical chemistry at his desk in 384 Dillon when a half­eaten piece offruit hit his window screen. Manier, now a professor in Notre Dame's philosophy depart· ment, loqked out his window and spotted Witzleben on the walkway below. 
The two decided to hide the statue, with hopes ofblaming the deed on the men from Walsh. They buried Sorin in a sand trap on the Burke Memorial GolfCourse since it was the easiest place to dig in December. 
During Christmas vacation, Manier ran into an old high school friend who was headed for Korea. He told him to send a telegram to the Prefect ofDiscipline, Father "Black Mac" McCarragher, now a resident ofCorby Hall. A few weeks later Father McCarragher got a telegram from Tokyo. "Dear Mac. Happened to be passing through Tokyo and stopped offto pay my respects to the Emperor. Say hello to the lads. Father Sorin." 
Other friends were told to send telegrams and postcards from Europe. One day McCarragher received a message from London. "Dear Mac. Represented the lads at the coronation ofElizabeth II. Oh to be in England now that spring is here." From Rome came another note. "Dear Mac. Had an audience with His Holiness today. I think I got things locked up for the new library. Don't let any ofthose young upstarts back there take the credit." 
For months the bronze Sorin hibernated in the bunker at Burke, and McCarragher was not amused. The two made sure that copiesofthe telegrams and postcards were sent to the South Bend Tribune, which quickly picked up the story and asked McCarragher for an interview. 

McCarragher did not mince his words. "We think thiswhole thing is 
the product of a diseased mind, or 
minds." 

A larger statue of Father Sorin, also by Biondi, which has never left its proper place overlooking South Quad. 
"It was serious in the sense that it was a statue we all venerated, but it certainly wasn't the most important thing on my mind at the time," recalls McCarragher. He does not remember having met Witzleben, and says he was not too well ac­quainted with Manier until he joined the Notre Dame faculty several years later. · 
Spring arrived and the pranksters decided it was time to dig up the statue. Fearing that someone would hit the figure on an explosion shot or that the statue would be uncovered when the golf team relocated the sand traps, Sorin was exhumed on a dark and stormy night. 
William Santoro '53, now a psyc­hiatrist in Beverly Hills, offered the use of his car. They dumped the statue in the trunk and headed for Homewood, IlL to drop Sorin off at Manier's girlfriend's house. Her father agreed to store the statue in the garage. He too was a jokester who had stolen the famous axe which the Stanford and California football teams awarded to each year's victor. 
Just before finals week the three decided to return Sorin to the campus. After bringing the statue back to South Bend on a bus, they hid it in a locker at the station. 
They sent one last telegram from Washington D.C. announcing Father Sorin's triumphant return prior to graduation. "We planned a Friday night bash, to avoid the crowd of parentson the weekend. There were only 500 in our senior class, and everyone else had gone home. Come Friday and everyone was at the Dunes. Including Carnie (Witzleben) and Zulu (Santoro)," says Manier. 
Manier went back to campus and waited for Witzleben and Santoro to return from the Dunes. They didn't. At about 11 p.m. Manier began to panic. He got a classmate to give him a lift out to the bus station, quickly snatched the statue from the bus sta­tion locker, and put it into the car's trunk. 
The duo avoided the crowd at the Main Circle and hid behind the engineering building a few minutes after midnight. They wrapped the statue in the same blanket in which they had hidden it months before and sneaked it past the Law School and behind the crowd at the Main Circle, whose attention was fixed on Notre Dame Avenue. 
"We snuck to within 100 yards, put the statue down, screamed a primal scream-HEYSOR1N-and ran, fearful for both our diplomas and our immortal souls." They blitzed away from the crowd and were never caught. 
"Ouronly goal was to bring happi­ness and laughter to a dry and humorless campus," says Manier. "We gained a profound sense of the ludicrousness oflife at Notre Dame, and that sense, which has deepened with age, has been our only reward until now." 
Light metal music 

The Northwestern University Foundation Brass Quintet performs one oftheir numbers at the second annual Festival ofBrass this weekend in Washington 
., -..... ., ... ' .. •. ·--.. ·. •...
~ 

Hall. Eleven college and university brass ensembles rangingfrom quartets to large brass ensembles per­
formed at the festival. As a special highlight, each played one or more pieces ofmusicfor brass, as yet unpublished. 
The Observer Monday, April30, 1984-page 6 ­


Pillow talk? 


A timid start and a serf frivolous and frolicsor I 
ByJENNIFER BIGOTT 
Senior StaffReporter 
An Tostal, which means "spring festival" in Gaelic, continued its il­lustrious tradition at Notre Dame last week, judging from the overwhelming amount of participa· tion by the students. 
Timid Tuesday's golf tournament teed oil .a week-long celebration of springtime on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. The golf out­ing took place on the Burke Memorial course. 
Evems such as the Slam Dunk Contest and Air Band competition highlighted Wicked Wednesday's activities. The Det·athalon, with such events as the dining hall tray run and the "Simon Says" contest, made the sunny afternoon seem all the more enjoyable. Commented Engineering major Greg Brehm, "I liked the Slam Dunk Contest be· cause I took second place." 
As the week progressed, so did the number of An Tostal events. On Thirsty Thursday, students from both campuses flocked to Saint Mary's for such events as the Tricycle Race, Twister, Jail, Dorm Feud and the ever-popular Mr. Campus contest. This year's winner was Mr. Zahm, Tom Fanning. "Mr. Campus" was one of the more popular events of the day, according to Grace Hall resident.Jell" Griffin. '"It was pretty fun. I liked seeing (Mr. Grace) Leo Gomez make a fool of himselfon stage," ht· commented. 
Tertia Carrigan, a McCandless freshman, cited Jail as one of her least favorite events. "I nearly got hit by a couple of pies because guys kept throwing me in jail," she said. 
Frivolous Friday lived up ro its name with its scheduled 1 H event~. The South Quad ti..·aturcd such events as the Jello and Egg Tosst·s. the Bucket Brigade, the Licorice Eating Contest and the Tire Roll, while Green Field hosted the Mattress Race and the Keg Toss. Among the most popular events in front of the Sorin statue were the Serf Auction. the Loudmouth Con­test, and the Trivia Bowl, won by Cavanaugh Hall. Friday night's Recess I 0 I and the midnight movie, 
"Polyester," brought the busy day to an appropriate close. 
Some students, however, were disappointed with tht.• film, which 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Monday, April 30, 1984 -page 7 



The Coliseum never saw chariot races like these. 
ne finish, but e days in ·between 
featured a revolutionary new con· cept in moviemaking, scratch and sniff, as well as a 200-plus pound transvestite, Divine. as the star. Viewers were given cards with ten numbered scratch J.nd sniff circles. When a number flashed on the screen. the appropriate circles were scratched and sniffed. "I thought it was stupid," said sophomore Lisa Fitt. "I think the idea ofa scratch and sniff movie was okay, but the movie was horrible. The smells were gross." The smells on the cards in­cluded skunk, stove gas and body odor. "Thank goodness there was no 
charge," commented one student. 
"Sunny Saturday" proved to be the perfect name for a near-perfect day. The warm weather and the positive attitude of the par,icipants made this day one to be entered 
among the best in the annals of An Tostal history. The picnic and the Mud Pit Games attracted the most students for the entire festival. Rob Riebsemleger, who organized the Mud Pillow Fights, said he was "surprised at so much participation. Registration was at the site and we were unsure of how many we were going to get. But we ended up having to tum teams away." 
The annual chariot race was won by Cavanaugh Hall for the second year in a row. 
The traditional Irish Wake closed Saturday's "An Tostal" events. The event was touted as "A Victory Dance at Stepan." Famous Chicago band Arien provided the music for the party, which lasted until after 2 the next morning. 
Bookstore Basketball was the final event ofAn Tostal, with Macri's Deli taking first place for the second year in a row in the men's division. The well-attended game took place be· hind the ACC late yesterday after­noon. 
Organization for the festival was left to the students, who did an ex· cdlent job, looking at the success of many of the events. "We got all the material we needed. It went well," said John Finnerty, who organized the jail event at Saint Mary's. 
Freshman Pomi Smith ofMcCand· less summed up the overall senti· ment of the week when she commented, "I loved the whole thing. There were so many different events. It really gave students the opportunity to get involved and meet one another. I can't wait until next year!" 
Not exactly a victory march 
Sports Briefs 
The Weightlifting Club will sponsor a bench press and squatting meet Saturday, May 5, at I p.m. There will be men's and women's weight classes and medals will be awarded to first through third places in each class. The meet is open to everyone, including varsity athletes. Sign up at the Rockne weight room, or call Pat (8762) or Mark ( 1156). The fee is S2. -The Ob­server 
The Notre Dame women's golfteam will: 
have a mandatory meeting today at 6:30p.m. at Corby Hall. The fall· schedule will be organized and preparations for the match against Evansville on May 5-6 will be made. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's softballteam improved their record to 22-3 with a four-game sweep this weekend. Friday, against Franklin College, Julie Keigher earned the victory with a 3-1 victory. In the second game, Cathy Logsdon pitched a 7-2 victory for the Belles. Saturday against Anderson, Saint Mary's won 8-5 and 11-0. In the first game, Annie Day earned the victory as Trish Nolan went two-for­three at the plate. Keigher was credited for the win in the second game as Nolan went two-for-two for the game and four-for-five for the day. -The Obsen1er 
TheMarketingClubGolfToum.eywill be held Friday, May 4, on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Signups for tee times will be held in 255 Hayes-Healy from today until Wednes­day. Entrants will have a choice to play in the 4-man bestball or 4-man scramble. Prizes will be awarded in both divisions. A S2.50 green fee will be charged. For more information, call Don at 1684.­The Obsen1er 
The men's tennis teant won two matches this 
weekend. Saturday the men defeated Michigan State 7-2, their first defeat of a Big Ten opponent, achieving their sixth consecutive 20­win season. Yesterday, the Irish streched their record to 21-9, defeating Eastern Michigan, 8-1. Tomorrow Notre Dame will travel to Kalamazoo for their final match before the Eastern Collegiate Championships May 18-20. -The Observer 
Student season ticketapplications for the up~om­
ins football season are in the mail. Students who haven't received 
their applications by Friday should call the ACC Ticket Office. Stu­
dents who wish to take the free bus to the Hoosier Dome for the 
Purdue game should check the box at the bottom oftheir ticket form 
and return it byJune 20. -The Observer 
Monday,April30, 1984-pageS 
Best of Bookstore... 
MR. BOOKSTORE Lou Nanni, Tequila White Lightning IV 
MOST VALUABLE PLAYER Larry Cuculic, Macri's Deli 
ALL-BOOKSTORE 
First Team 

Rick Louthan, Armed and Dangerous II Joe Sweeney, Macri's Deli Greg Russell, Brick Throwers Bob Michael, Brick Throwers John Stein, Windy City 5 
Second Team 

Barry Fay, Macri's Deli Mike Muldowny, Rousseau's No­ble Savages Mike Kelley, Shysters Jack McLaughlin, The Modern Lovers Mike Conlin, Tequila White Lightning IV 
Third Team 
Brian Pelczar, Return of Pigbag Tod Tamberg, Padres Jim Reed, Virtual Unknowns 

Pat Collins, Fun Bunch Five Bubba Cunningham, Macri's Deli · 
ALL-FAUST TEAM 
Scott Grooms, Jimmy G and the Spots Greg Dingens, Fun Bunch Five 
Rick DiBernardo, Fun Bunch Five 
Steve Bauerlein, Tequila White Lightning IV Ron Hudson, Old Men on the Block Joe Johnson, Windy City Action Brian Behmer, Rousseau's No­ble Savages 
GOLDEN HATCHET Brian Enright, Tequila White Lightning IV 
HOOSIER AWARD Jim McDonnell, 4 Ugly Guys and Mr. July 
IRON MAN Lou Walshe, Low Altitude Bombers 
ALL-STAR GAME MVP Greg Russell, Brick Throwers 
Deli 
continuedfrom page 12 
been averaging 53 percent, made 
only 42 percent ofits field goals ( 18­
of-43) in the final. Tequila White 
Lightning IV, usually a 45-percent 
shooting team, hit a miserable 21 
percent ( 11-of-53) in the losing ef­
fort. 
Bookstore XIII CommissionerJeff 
Blumb said yesterday that he was 
happy with the way things went for 
the final game. 
"Everything was copacetic," 
Blumb said. "The rain held off, 
which is good. I felt a few drops, and 
I was really worried that it was going 
to rain." 
Blumb says the last three weeks 
have been very hectic for him, and 
he was happy when the champion­
ship game finally was underway. 
"More than anything, I'm glad it's over," Blumb admitted. "It was fun doing it (running the tournament), but it's been long and wearing. The payoff was the game today (Sunday)." 
Bookstore Briefs... In the All-Star Game yesterday afternoon, North Quad defeated South, 21-11, with the help of six points from Greg Russell. Also playing for North in that game were Scott Grooms, Rick Louthan, Bob Michael, and Brian Pelczar. The South team consisted ofJohn Stein, Jim Reed, Mike Muldowney, Mike Kelley, and Jack Mclaughlin.... Greg Russell earned the Most Valuable Player Award in that game. 
***************** 
* * 
: Buy : 
* *,..
: Observer : 
: : 
:* Classifieds :* * *
***************** 

fbe Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of· Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from I2:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters r da . 
NOTICES  Found: Keys in Engineering Aud. Wed· nesday Nrte. Contact Margaret in the Stu­dent Union office.  NEED I GRADUATION CALL RICH AT 234-8496.  TICKET!$$!  NEEDGRADTICS $$$$.CALL 1610. NEED 2 GRAD. TIX CALL MARILYN  SHOATS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHOATS AND  ARE YOU GOOD WITH YOUR HANDS? In a purely professional sense. of course. II so, you would be considered a worthy  
I have one extra graduation ticket. Will  1294  SHADES  SHORTS  AND  SHADES  addition to The Observer layout stall. No  
EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5:30  LOST-GREEN  USMC/ARMY  FIELD  lrade lor hotel reservations for May 19  SHORTS AND SHADES  experience is necessary, but enthusiasm  
JACKET-Dad has threatened my exist­ and 20. Call Dana a1277-3124.  HELP NEED AT LEAST TWO GRADUA­ Shorts and Shades Is comingllll May 5  and a sense of humor are needed. This  
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME.  ence if I can'l find rt.lf found-PETE 3165.  TION TICKETS. CALL 283-8933  Howard Hall Shorts and Shades Party. Be  Involves  nighttime  work.  Talent  and  
THESES  TEAM  PAPERS ETC  CALL  DAY CAMPUS! avoid the new policy - there!I  potential will skyrocket you to a pres·  
MAS. COKER 233-7009.  MOVE  O.C.  need  2  f<ma le  NEED  MANY  GRAD  TIXI  $$$  CALL  SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND  tiglous paying posff/on quickly. Want to  
R:X:M.1A1E S-<:"'1JU s  v iBN--ned  yea  KURT AT 234-2252  SHADES  SHORTS  AND  SHADES  nnd out more? Stop by the LaFortune Ob­ 
GET TOP$$$ FOR YOUR TEXTSIII Buy Back Paperbacl<s. Monarch and Cliff  FOR RENT  plea seca IIKr i saJayne284-4373/4387  NEED 4 GRAD TICKETS.  WILL  PAY  SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES  server offlce soon for an application and more info.  
Notes  ride needed to seattle or portland after  WHATEVER. CALL RICH AT 288-7446  SHORTS AND SHADES  
Mon thru Fn 1·4 p.m. PANDORA'SBOOKS937S.BENDAVE.  .................... WANTED FEMALE ROOMMATE SUM­ may 16 call1ohn 234 8493  5-11 PM.  ...  PIZZA QUEEN MAUREEN APATHETIC ABOUT SCHOOL?  
MER  SESSION  noce  house  good  NEEDED:  HELPIIMy  87  year  old  wonderful  PRE PROFESSIONAL SOCIETY ELEC­ I CAN'T FATHOM WHY...  
LOST/FOUND I  neighborhood Furnished except tor your bedroom. 1 1/4 mile from campus $140. Mo & 1/2 ol utllil1es. Call Coleen after 7:00 234-9970  One more roommate (female) lor a 4­person apartment Ill Campus VIew. Call Martpatlll7ffn or 239-7471.  grandfather who only finished 6th grade and helped me get through NO would love to attend my graduaion wrth his new wile. I didn't win the lottery and really need 2 t1x  TIONS! LAFORTUNE MONDAY APRIL 30 AT 6:00. CALL JULIE AT 67981F YOU CAN'T ATTEND.  TIME·s RUNNING OUT BUT I CAN NEVER REACH YOU... DO YOU EVER ANSWER YOUR PHONE OR DO I HAVE THE WRONG  
together. please call x2706  PREMEDS INTERESTED IN TRAVEL·  NUMBER???  
LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL COURT 4B GOLD CHAIN WITH NOTRE DAME  HOUSES · Furnished Close lo campus 4· 6 Bedrooms 2 Balhs CALL 277-3461  FOR SAlE  WILL TRADE HOTEL RES GRAD. TIX. CALL 232-3582  FOR  1  lNG TO LOYOLA MED SCHOOL WED. MAY 2 FOR TOUR LECTURE AND IN­FORMATION ON WHAT YOU'RE REAL·  PLEASE ANSWER--I CAN'T WAIT 'TIL 25 CENT BEERS ON TUES.  
INTRAMURAL MEOAL (SMALL REC­TANGLE) MEDAL HAS ONLY SEN· TAMENTAL VALUE (AWARDED TO FATHER IN 1944). KEEP CHAIN BUT PLEASE RETURN MEDAL. CALL PAUL 272 0746 OR ANN·MAAIE 284 5087  FOR RENT: SUMMER SUB-LETTING FOR TURTLE CREEK APT. NEGO­TIABLE RATEII CALL 277-8497  IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAYI CALL (312)742-1 142 EXT. 7316.  PERSONAlS  LY GETTING INTO PLEASE CALL MIKE .4T 277-8370 BY THE 30TH. DRY LAND is com1ng !1111111 DRY LAND in sighl !1111!1  WELL DONE CAMELOTIll The yellow tights look cute...the though...  legs  
Found black Aspen baseball cap. found 1n Malh bldn morn1ng of 4 18: call 8330 LOST: LIGHT BLUE NOTRE DAME BOOK BAG WITH LEATHER BROWN BOT­TOM FILLED WITH E.E. NOTES IN A 3­RING BLACK BINDER. PLEASE RETURN TO DANNY 1817. NO QUEs­TIONS ASKEDIll!Ill LOST. Walle! on Easler desperalely need 10 and dnvers hcsence. If found please call1224 \ LOST ONE NEW PAIR OF PLASTIC STETSON TINTED GLASSES IN A BLACK CASE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 283-8933 FOUND: A contact case was found In ihe Engineenng Auditorium before Easter b<eal<. nis blue and whrte and was turned  WANTED PHOENIX BOUND BUT I NEEO A PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL AUGUST 11 ANY SUGGESTIONS OR OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239· 53130R 277·4851 GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED. CALL PAUL AT 239-5313 or 277-4851. Roommace needed to move OC on June 1 Call MIKE 277-6463 WANT TO SUMMER IN SOUTH BEND? We need care for house lawn and two children ages 10 & 12. Approx 9 to 4 M·F from 6/1 1 thru 8/31. (flexible) lnteresled Coeds wrth cars call Peg or Jim even1ngs 288-2449.  Great fridge for sale! Call3265. BARGAIN: ENGAGEMENT AND WED­DING RING FOR SALE Conlact Garry Rush 239-7735 FOR SALE Official KENTUCKY DERBY Glasses and Programs all years reasonable prices Paul671 3 Free Spirit 10-speed (excel.cond.) $75 -call Barry 8620 FOR SALE: Stereo. Pnce negoliable. Call Vince at 283-3129 TICKETS GRANDPARENTS TRAVELLING FROM HAWAII FOR GRADUATION NEED TIX DESPERATELY. CALL BILL AT 1079  To Bridget Bla1s CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR UP COMING WEDDING! We WISh you much happiness in your future. You deservelhe besllife has to g1ve. You w11i always have a spec1al place 1n lhe hearts of those you have touched. Much love. Michelle OAR HOUSE. COLD BEER & LIQUOR CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. COSMOS FEVER.........CURE ITIIIIIII HUNGRYII! Dlocounts In Yellow Pages of Your Campus Telephone Directory. LSAT GMAT MCAT in your future? Come to the Stanley H. Kaplan Study Break Social" and learn about our test prep programs. You're iv~ed tonight South Dining Ha117-9 prn.  Christina Weinmann, Chnstina We1nman. Chnstina Weinman, Where are you? Ex. for a week! SUMMER is almost here and soon you will be g01ng home. Some of us are not so lortunate. Some of us will be spending our summer in sunny South Bend. And as if that weren't reason enough to lake prty on me I don't have a car w1th which to escape the conlines of this fair city 10 take me to work or even to go to the grocery store. Perhaps you have a car that you do not want to bring home because it is too tar too much trouble elc. Or perhaps you would like to leave your car here because this sad tale has moved you to tears. If you do have a car thai you want taken care of for the summer by a very reliable person call Sarah at 1311. Please. MARIPAT A BOTTLE ((LARGE)) OF ROSE'  LISA MY LOVE I SAW YOU STAGGER· lNG AT SENIOR BAA THURSDAY WHAT GRACE AND BEAUTY COMBINED IN ONE BODY MY HEART POUNDS JUST TO THINK OF IT WHEN YOU SPILLED YOUR BEER ON ME I KNEW WE WERE MADE FOR EACH OTHER IM FREE TOMORROW LETS GO TO KMART AND PICK OUT THE RING LOVE CHET. GILA GILA CILA CILA CILA GILA Atten· t1on all CILA members: II you have nol heard anything aboullhe semor send-off dinner yel call Hector(8267) or Mark(8270)NOW! CILA GILA GILA CILA CILA CILA GILA BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS-------···· ·---·· Last activity of the year. Dinner at Show Biz Pizza this Thursday evemng·· Free pizza soda and v1deo games. CALL JOHN AT 18021F INTERESTED.  
in after the 11:00 shoWing of Everythln .g  A  BUCKET  OF  KENTUCKY  FRIED  
You Wanted to Know About Sex. Please contact Vince Pryor at the Student Union Kyou lost lhem. 239-7757 LOST: WOMAN'S GOLD OVAL-FACED WATCH WED. MOST LIKELY ON THE NORTH QUAD. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL LISA 6997... . ································································  MUSICIANS "THE LAW" NO'a Hollnl Party 88nd Ia --.gtor • ....,_ bua pleyw tor the 11114-15 r--c.ll2l13-3210 tor..audition. Need a HOUSESITTER for the summer? Clll Kay or Tricia 233-9764.  need 2 graduation tix. 232-6085 NEED GRDUATION TIX DESPERATE­LVIII Relatives coming from abroad. Will pay CASHIll Call Greg-3317. $$$Need 2commence.lilc. Call Dan287­6273.  I'm looking through you. Where did you go? 1thoughll knew you. What did I know? You don't look different But you have changed. I'm looking ttvough you You're not the same.  (COLD OF COURSE) AND ALBERT BLAKETONE 0-CK? AH WHAT A NITE!II You said you would; you d/dn 't And I want to know why. You said you could; youeouldn1 Now why did you lie? OCEAN CITY live and play under the Jer­-Phil CaRina sey sUn. Call Tllll1 at 1201 . . •••••••••••••••••••••~:.::,,:•,,:~.::.~:'.:',a.,::.~'!'.~~.:.~:~.,,,, • ~ • • •_•-•------·----­ 

,r.....n•• ~ 

The Observer Monday, April 30, 1984 ..::_ page 9 

NBA playoff action 

Celtics, Nets, and Jazz lead series 



---H.IGI 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
CORDIALLY INVITES YOU TO ATTEND OUR 
; 
•I 
r 
"Study Break Social" 
TAKE A STUDY BREAK & JOIN US 
• 
.LEARN ABOUT OUR TEST PREP PROGRAMS. 

• 
TALK WITH OUR INSTRUCTORS AND STAFF. 

• 
REFRESHMENTS VILL BE SERVED! 



WHEN: April 30, 7-9 pm 
WHERE: South Dining Hall, 2nd fl. Notre Dame Campus 
Associated Press 
Darryl Dawkins scored 32 points, including two three-point plays in the final 90 seconds, to lead the New Jersey Nets to a 106-100 victory over the Milwaukee Bucks in the first game of their National Basket­ball Association playoffs yesterday. 
In other playoff games yesterday, Boston defeated New York 110-92 and Utah stopped Phoenix 105-95. 

Birdsong added 18 points for the Nets, while Marques Johnson led Milwaukee with 23 points and Junior Bridgeman added 20. 
Utah's Adrian Dantley scored 36 points and rookie Thurl Bailey added 26 to power the Jazz past the cold-shooting Suns. 

Mayl Chautauqua
JIMMY CLIFF 


7:30~ 9:30~ 11:30 Adm:$1 

Larry Bird, playing on a sprained ankle, scored 23 points, handed off 12 assists and grabbed nine rebounds to pace Boston's victory over the Knicks. Bird also had three steals and blocked two shots. 
New York's Bernard King, who had scored more than 40 points in each of the Knicks' last four games, was held to 26. 
The winners all took 1-0 leads in their best-of-seven NBA quarter­final se'ries. On Saturday, the Los An­geles Lakers defeated the Dallas Mavericks to grab a 1-0 lead in their series. 
The playoffs resume tomorrow with New Jersey at Milwaukee and Dallas at Los Angeles. 
Football 
continuedfrompage 12 
Griffin, Greg Dingens, Eric Dorsey and Mike Gann. Linebackers Rick DiBernardo, Tony Fui:janic, and Mike Kovaleski also played well for the Blue team. 
Now that spring practice is over, the players will work out on their own until regular season practice begins in August. The squad will then start gearing up for the season opener against Purdue, scheduled for September 8. 
The following players were presented with Hering Awards at halftime Saturday. The awards are given to the top individual perfor­mer at each position: Larry Williams (offensive lineman), Mark Bavaro (receiver), Steve Beuerlein (offensive back), Mike Gann (defensive lineman), Tony Furjanic (linebacker), and Joe Johnson (secondary). Awards for Most Im­proved Player went to Mark Brooks on offense and Wally Kleine on defense. The Coaches Award for in­spirational play was awarded to ful­lback Tom Monahan and defensive tackle Tom Roggeman. 
IRISH ITEMS -Pinkett under­went arthroscopic surgery last week to remove slightly torn cartilage on his left knee . . . . Offensive tackle Mike Perrino and outside linebacker Mike Golic both had arthroscopic shoulder surgery last week and were also out ofaction Saturday .... Also sitting out with injuries were inside linebackers Dave Butler (neck strain) and Kevin Jennings (torn hamstring), offensive guard Tony Piccin (mononucleosis), free safety Van Pearcy (tendinitis in knee) and cornerback Trey Coleman (hamstring) ... Strong guard Larry Williams was a last-minute scratch because of back spasms .... Mike Haywood was the only injury victim Saturday, suffering a sprained ankle that will require a cast for three weeks. 
A.I.S. Shipping and Packaging 

You wrap or we wrap 
3617 Mishawaka Ave. 
Mishawaka at Logan 
Mon.-Fri. 8:30-5:00 
We Ship Exclusively 
UPS 

The Observer 
Generals, Stallions, Invaders win 
Associated Press 
Quarterback Brian Sipe ran for one touchdown and passed for an­other yesterday a.~ the New Jersey Generals handed the Michigan Pan­thers their fourth consecutive United States Football League defeat. 
Sipe scored on a one-yard bootleg run and threw two yards to tight end Jeff Spek for a touchdown as the Generals defeated the Panthers 31­21 before a crowd of 50,908 at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. 
In other lJSFL games yesterday, Birmingham trounced Denver 31­14 and Oakland edged Chicago 1 7­13. 
The Panthers, the defending league champions, fell behind 24-14 at the half as the Generals went on to boost their record to 8-2 to remain one game behind first-place Philadelphia. 
Looking for something toml those long dull evenings? 
SVMMIJR STOilAGIJ SPAOIJ 
Special discount; for •D/SMO st;udentll (5 x10 spaces and larger) CALL 259·0335 to IUISIRVB SPACE. SELF LOCK STOJlAGE OF MCKiliLEY 8i.6 Bast Me Kinley Mishawaka Securit;y PatrOt Checks 
The 
1984DOME 
isH ere!!! 

Undergraduates can pick up their book on the Stepan Courts Mon. April .30-Thurs. May 3, form 12:00-5:00 p.m. Must present I D to get your yearbook! ! ! 

- 
KAVPRO II COMPUTER  
...  -­ f  •  Comes Standard With  
64K of Memory  
~  Two Disk Drives  
9" Green Screen  

Softwc...re Included: Easy to use Keyboard Wordstar Word Processor with numeric keypad Wordplus Spelling Proofreader Parallel and Profitplan Spreadsheet Serial Interface Perfect Writer Word Processor Perfect Speller ABSOLUTELY Perfect Calc Spreadsheet 
UNBEATABLE 

Perfect Filer Database Microsoft Basic 
ON THE MOVE TO INDIANAPOLIS 
The "Apartment Guide of Greater Indianapolis", published by the Apartment Association of Indiana, is the OFFICIAL source ofinformation for choosing the apartment that's JUST RIGHT FOR YOU. 
Information on rental ranges, security deposits, features and recreational facillities are all easily indexed for your convenience. And detailed maps show the exact location ofover 85,000 apartments~ 
LET OUR GUIDE BE YOUR GUIDE 
While in Indianapolis, pickup your copy at the nearest newsstand for only $2.00•••or contact: 
The Apartment Association ofIndiana 
1811 Executive Drive, Suite R 
Indianapolis, IN 46241 

241-9080 

Monday, April 30, 1984 -page I 0 
Senior Bar Cards will be sold Mon., Tues., Wed. (Apri130-May 2) in North and South Dining Halls and SMC Dining Hall from 5-6:30pm Bar Cards are $18.00 now. Prices will go up at the end ofthe school year 

Fast, Free Delive..yu 
Call us. 
277·2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
233·3133 
1428 Calvert St. 
289·7100 
4333 W. Western 
277·8700 
51400 U.S. 31 North 
Our drivers carry less 
than $20.00. 
Limited delivery area 
®1964 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 

r----------------------, 
Only $7.50 for a 

Monday 
one-item, 16" pizza plus two Cokes~

Madness One coupon per pizza. Expires in two weeks. 

Fast, Free DellveryN Good at listed locations. 
40600 I 265o-4 

L••••••••••••••••••••••J 
~«:)cJ[C}l~----------------------------------M-o-nd_a.y,_A_~_il_3_o,_19_8_4~-P-~-e--11 
Bloom Connty 
WHew 1 11u. CMr< .t As f'f{r;­PtC~Il, tr flfl~J'r'e{110 ee A f?.fiiJC(JIJS CNICIJ5 fNflGf3{1.'.•• 

Mellish 

IIO~C£ OUR STAll~ 
SET UPIN 0/JR FOES! VICTORY SITS ON OfJR HELMS/ ) 

"Take the bench too. He would have wanted you to 
have lt." 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 35 Bitter 66 Theater 10 Track medicine sign record 
1 Aleutialf  plant  67 Castle or  breaker  
island  37 Meadow  Papas  11 As to  
5 Kind of  38 Part of TNT  68 Diamond or  12 Hatchets  
pepper  Simon  14 ICBMword  
9 Opera song  39 Giants'  69 Dampens  20 Actress  
13 Vex  playground  70 Wen  Novak  
14 Donnybrook  43 Adult  71  Elihu­ 21  Use one's  
15 Bobcat 16 Purl's pal  insect 44 Hockey  DOWN  noodle  
.17 A Massey 18 Certain 19 Bone break· ers, in a child's rhyme 22 Towel word 23 Ordinal suffix 24 Small amount 27 10D was one  great 45 Plum 46 Hauls 47 Close, poetically 49 Sea bird 50 Wordwith mark or phone 52 Climax 54 Car feature 63 Node  1 Certain boats 2 Force 3 Et­4 Two-masted vessel 5 Lugosi or Bartok 6 College in N.C. 7 Banker,  24 Kind of agreement 25 Cottonwood 26 Oscar winner 28 Bandleader Brown 29 Colonial governor 31 Dog bites 32 Trite 33 Fielder's  
64 Ride a bike  often  fumble  
30 Map in a  65 Native  8 Minimum  34 Subway fare  
map  American  9 Too  36 Advantage  

Berke Breathed 
...Wf((), AS f-V~RYONe IN 1Hf, ff?.Fif, 


••NE.V6f?, BI/T NE.VeR -rlJ 13£ WOII.U' MVST S//fi£/.,.Y KNOW, IS &eeN OR SMell.eP fi6AIN. 
IJNWCK!t..Y ANI' /F<f?.f,'/f,f{S/f!;{..Y ~Ali' AS A HERK/Nb,. 


Dave 
AWl IIH /INNNfl 


EGADSf 

~CLUNK!!€ 
z z
\ 




TV Tonight 
6:30p.m. 
7p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 10p.m. 
10:30 p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30 p.m. 
16 MASH 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel ofFortune 
16 1V Bloopers and Practicaljokes 22 Billy Graham/Sacramento 28 Blue Thunder 
16 Movie: "Adam" 22 Kate and Allie 28 ABC Monday Night Movie 
22 Newhart, 
22 Cagney and Lacey 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
16 Tonight Show 22 Hart to Hart/ Columbo 28 ABC News Nightline 
28 Eye on Hollywood 
16 Late Night With David Letterman 
Guindon Richard Guitxlon The Far Side 

"What have I told you about eating in bed?" 


40 Unsuccess· 55 De­
ful one (elegant) 41 Wrath 56 Leaveout 42 Sound of 57 Chooses 
firewood 58 Date for 47 Main Caesar highway 59 Tilt 48 Ethiopian prince 60 Virginia 51 Gelatin willow 
salad 61 Epee's 53 Impostor cousin 54 Aviated 62 Far: pref. 
Friday's Solution 


©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
wr !i
•

' REFRIGERATOR RETURNS 
•Saturday, May 5 
*12-4 p.m. • •at Stepan Mall •
·~·-·.·-~~JJJJJJJJ})))JM,., I.hn1u~·,,_,u·" ~" •.•-.-.-,..._-..~.-1.•. a :I 
-

• • • EARN MONEY* * * 
The Student Activities Board needs poster hangers for the 1984-85 school year. 
Applications available at the Student Activities Board Offices on the 2nd floor of Lafortune 
•-.,_a-----• •,.. a"'"' 00 • 0'"' • •-..... .,. ___ •• •• ~ 00 .-·...""., ..: • .,·., _.. ...,. ~·--·~ • .·_. ..:·:·....... 00 ____ ._ ,_ ________________ ----', 
S~orts 
Teamwork prevails as Macri's Deli repeats as Bookstore champions 
By PHIL WOLF 
Spurts Writer 
It was teamwork that did it last year, and it was teamwork that did it a~ain this year. 
Macri's lkli downed Tequila White Li~htning IV, 21-12, yester­day, in tht· rematch oflast year's final to become Bookstore Basketball Champion for the second strai~ht year. 
Macri's Deli once again exhibited the exn~lknt tt·amwork that kd the team to the Bookstore XII Cham­pionship last year. In that game, Macri's Prc:fc:rrc:d Stock defeated the favored Tequila White Lightnin~. 21-1 S. 
Tht· two teams took to the Bookswre-size 1:ourt painted in the ACC parking lot yesterday afternoon at 3 p.m. with introduetions by Jack I.loyd, ACC basketball announcer. 
Brian Enri~ht, whose nine fouls in the final ~ame helped to to convince the Bookstore commissioners to give him the Golden Hatchet Award for the: tournament, put Tequila White Li~tning IV on the hit two jump shots and a driving layup to go three-for-four in the fir~t half. He finished the game at three­for-eight. 

Both teams continued to have trouble finding the hoop in the first half, more because oflousy shooting than pressure from the zone defenses employed by the two teams. Neither team was able to build a lead of more than one point. as Macri's Deli answered every point Tequila scored until the game was tied at four. 
It was Joe Sweeney who tied the game at that point with an I H-foot jump shot from the left side of the court. Macri's then came quickly up court followng a Cunningham steal, and Sweeney scored on the fast break. The S-4 lead was Macri's Deli's first of the game, and Tequila White Lightning IV never led again. 
Macri's could not widen the mar­gin to two until another fast break gave the team two quick baskets. Steve Toohill hit a layup with an as­sist from Cunningham, who then came up with another steal. Larry Cuculic scored the rebound goal on 
Monday,April30, 1984-page 12 

pionship, prevailing over Tequila White Lightning IV in the Bookstore BasketballXIIIfinals. 
scoreboard first with a jump shot on which he also drew a foul. The score remained at 1-0 for several minutes, as both u·ams shot poorly every time down the court. 
Buhha Cunnin~am finally was able to tie tht· game at one with his first point of the ~ame, about which announcer I.loyd commented, "Cunningham has now matched his season avt·rage." 
However, tht· assist leader for Macri's showed that he also can score when ht· wants to. Cunnin­gflam was the only scorer for his team in the opening minutes, as he the break, givng Macri's the I0-8 lead. Cuculic, the tournament MVP, grabbed nine more rebounds in the game to lead both teams in that category. 

Steve Beuerlein scored on a 20­foot jumper from the right side for Tequila, but Macri's still held a two­point advantage at halftime, I 1-9. 
Macri's really started to roll in the second half, though, and the score was 14-9 before Tequila White Li~tning IV caught its breath. Mike Conlin scored a rebound goal to bring his team within four, hut that was as close as Tequila came the rest His fade-away jumper from the right The high scorer in the final game of the way. baseline gave Macri's Deli its second was Steve Toohill, who finished with 

Macri's Deli then reeled off five consecutive Bookstore Basketball eight points on five-of-1 0 shooting consecutive points, thanks especial­Championship. from the field and three-of-five from ly to three free throws and a The road to tht: championship for the line. Mike Conlin was high point rebound goal by Steve Toohill, who Macri's Deli includt:d wins this man for the losers, shooting five-for­scored his team's last six points. weekend over The Modern Lovers, nine in the field and one-for-two 
Tequila then managed its final 21-8, in the quarterfinals and Fun from the charity stripe, while also points ofthe game before Toohill hit Bunch Five, 24-22, in Saturday's pulling down eight rebounds. a 20-foot jump shot from the left of semifinals. Both teams shot far below their the circle for the 20-12 Macri's ad­Tequila White Lightning IV tournament averages, perhaps he· vantage. earned its berth in the finals by run­cause of the extreme wind during 
A moment later, it was Toohill ning overJimmy G and the Spots, 2 1-the game. Macri's Deli, which had that took a pass from Buhha Cunnin­16, on Friday and Brick Throwers, ~am on the three-on-two fast break. 21-1 S, on Saturday. see DELI, page 8 
54th annual 

Blue-Gold game builds confidence 
By LARRY BURKE offensive coordinator Ron Hudson picture very well," said Hudson of 
Sports Writer of Beuerlt:in's pt:rformance. "He Jefferson. "He's made a great adjust· 
didn't force the hall on his passes, ment from the wide receiver posi­
Although it was slightly less than a and he felt very much in charge on tion this spring, and he's done wry 
nailbiting affair, Saturday's S4th an­the field. He conveyed that feeling to wt:ll, despite a lack of experientT. 
nual Blue-Gold Game at Notre Dame the rest ofthe team." He gives our offense another dinll'n­
Stadium did at least serve as a big Classmate Alvin Miller was Bcuer­sion. \X'e're confident that he'll he 
confidt:nce builder for the Irish lein's favorite target, catching six able to step in when needed and till 
starting team, while also providing a passes for II 7 yards. On one play, Allt:n Pinkl·tt's shoes." 
chance for some reserve players to Miller turned a 13-yard completion Hudson is decidedly pleased with 
step into tht: limelight. into a SO-yard gain by cutting hack tht: situation at tailback, whne there 
For the record, the Blue team across the field and outrunning is plenty of depth. Besides Pinkett 
(which includt:s the starters and the several defenders. and Jefferson, Hudson has second majority of the second-string "Alvin's been improving as he's year man l.estt·r flemons (dght players) rolled to a 3 7-0 victory over learning more about pass patterns carries for :W yards and a touch­the Gold, with a performance that and defensive coverage," said Hud­down Saturday) and sophomore-to­was nothing short of dominant. Of­son of the 6-4 split end. "He's going he Byron Abraham (four rushes for fensively, they moved the hall to he an effective weapon for us, 2'; yards). Tht·rt· is also a possibility practically at will, enroute to 399 to­along with Joe Howard and Milt that Hiawatha Francisco might tal yards of offense, while their Jackson. It's easy to get the hall to return to the tailback position. Fran­defense allowed the Gold team to him because he provides a big tar­cisco has been working as a free cross the SO-yard line only once. get." safety since the team's third 
With the outcome of the game a The Blue offense was just as suc­scrimmage, and the defensivt· certainty after the first few series of cessful on the ground, rolling up 16 1 coaches have not yet determined plays, the biggest question on the rushing yards rushing on 3S at­whether or not he will stay there. minds of the 14,313 fans in atten­tempts, as compared to the negativ<: Francisco performed well, as ht· danct: was probably whether or not 29 rushing yards which the Gold played one half with each team. the Cloud Dancers Sky Diving Team team amassed (most of that the registering six tackles for the <;old would ht: able to overcomt: swirling result of four quarterback sacks). team in the first half, and returning 20 mile-an-hour winds acd success­First-year tailback Alonzo Jefferson. an an intercepted pass 22 yards on fully accomplish tht:ir halftime who is running a lot like All­the game's final play. parachute landings on the Stadium American Allen Pinkett these days, The defense was even more im­field. Fortunately, the three ft:male kt·yed the Blue ground game with';'; pressive. holding tht· Gold team to parachutists came away from their yards and three touchdowns on nine 1 S yards of total offense on 40 plays rough landings with nothing more carries. He .scored the Blue tt•am's (that's an average of 14.<; incht·s per than bruises and sore feet. third touchdown on a tackle­play). Dt:fensive tackle Wally Klei1w. 
The winds had little effect on the breaking, 23-yard run that was set up who had two quarterback sacks. was aerials of quarterback Steve Beuer­by a great block by strong guard named the game's defensive \1VP, lein, however. The sophomore-to­John Askin. hut plenty ofother players turned in be solidified his starting position by Jefferson also scored the game's solid performances as well. completing 1 1 of 14 passt:s for 21 7 first touchdown on a two-yard run, Among these were Kleine's yards, good enough to win him the and made it 27-0 with a 1-yard score partners on the defensive line, Mike game's Offensive MVP Award. just before halftime. 
see FOOTBALL, page 9

"Steve was very impressive," said "He's fitting in to our overall 

