
Student Affairs -page 3 

the indc.:pc.·tHknt ..,tudcnt Ill"\\ 'papc.-r 'c.T\ i11g 11otrc. dame and "tint mar~·, SATIJRDAY, AUGUST 25, 1984 
The Observer /Pete Laches 
Wake up the echoes! 
Members ofthe Marching Bandshake down the thunder as they practice for the coming season. 

Classes of 1988 arrive on campuses.. 
ND quality remains high 
By TERRY BLAND 
Staff Reportw 
Thchdl that signals thecndofsummerhastolit'dassome 1790freshmen arrive at Notre Damt· to begin the fall semester. . 
With the arrival ofthe freshman class, the University has planned many events.Today,freshmcnwillbewelcomedwithanintroductoryceremony atthcAthlcticandConvocationc;enterstartingat7:30p.m.Tomorrow,also at the A.C.C., the class will he welcomed with a Mass at 11:00 a.m. 
After a picnic lunch tomorrow afternoon, students will be treated to a pt·rformance by theNotreDameMarchingBandandGleeClubbeginningat 
1.2:45 at theConvocationCenter. Later,parcntsandstudentsareinvitedto mixers at the residence halls. To cap off the day's events, freshmen are invltedtotheConcourseandMonogramRoomoftheA.C.C.toattendMonte Carlo Games and Dance sponsored by the Student Activities Board. First -year studentswill registerbeginningat 8:30a.m. on Monday at the 
Stepan Center. Thcdaywill concludewithanopen-airconcertontheNorth 
Quad at 9:00 p.m. 
"My guess Is there are about 1290 men and 500 women" in this year's freshman class, said Kevin Rooney, direct~r ofadmissions. Because there arcalwayssomcstudentsWhodonotshowupatthelastminute,exactfigures arc not known. 
·· Moststudcntswhohaveconfirmednotifyus,"saidDonBishop,assistant dirl·c.:tor of admissions, "But there is always that small segment that for variousrcasonsdonotnotifyus."Manypeopledropoutbecauseoffinancial reasons,buttherearcothcrtroublesthatmayoccur.''Theclassicstorygoing aroundthelvyl.eaguclastyearwasthatthercwasonestudentwhoremained onthefreshmanrosterintwoschoolsrightthroughorientation,''remarkcd Rooney. 
Each year the University Is given enrollment goals and the object is to make maximum usc oftht• residential spaceoncampus. ''As it stands right nc>wwehavcal'crtainnumhcrofrcsidentialspaccsavailableforwomenand 
see QUALITY, page 5 
SMC expands orientation 
By ANNE MONAS1YRSKI 
Satnt Mary's Edttor 
WhilethenumberofincomingfreshmenatSaintMary'sisthesameaslast year'senrollmentof472,theorientationprogramhasexpandedand,likeits motto says, is "taking new directions." 
Changesresultcdfromrecommendationsbyanadhoccommitteesetup lastOctobertoevaluateorientationweekactivities,accordingtoDirector of Student Activities, Mary Ann O'Donnell. 
Inaddition to a few neworientationevents,orientationweekactivities will be staggered throughout the week. Freshmen began arriving on campusThursday; although yesterdaywasdesignatedas thefirst move-in day,theorientationcommitteehadactivitiesplannedfortheearlyarrivals. 
Freshman Kate Kager from Bloomfield Hills, Michigan is happy to be at Saint Mary's and in a Regina Hall single though she said "the room looks smaller than I thought it was." Unlike many students whose sisters or mothersarecollegealumnae,KagerfirstspottedSaintMary's in thecollege catalog. 
Transfer student Tracie Williams from Elkhart, Ind., left Purdue llniversitybecauseshe"wantedtogotoasmallcrschool.''Thesophomore m::th major is impressed with the math department. In addition, Williams said, "I didn't like Greeks" and won't miss Purdue's fraternities and sororities not present at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 

Some events added to Orientation Week include an academic informationsessionforparents,apresentationanddiscussionofthehistory ofSaint Mary's, a discussion ofthe role ofthe Catholic college today, and a session with student goverhment. 
While there are "no major alterations" O'Donnell said that the times of manyofthe events were changedso thatstudentswould not be"rushed". Thcorientationliturgywillbeat9:30a.m.tomorrowinsteadofthisevening so that it would be "more as a culmination instead ofa starting off," said O'Donnell. PresidentJohn M. Duggan's welcome to incoming freshman 
see SMC, page 7 


Alcohol regulations ban student pre-game tailgaters 
By DAN McCULLOUGH 
News Edttor 
New alcohol policy regulations ban students from organizing pre· game tailgaters. "No student, stu­dent organization, or residence hall may organize or sponsor 'tailgaters' on campus or on any adjacent fields or parking lots at any time for the purpose of serving alcoholic beverages," the policy states. 

Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson admitted that student sentiment would probably be strongly against this new regula­tion. "That's going to be the big one," he said. 
In the final report of the alcohol committee, tailgaters are not banned. "It would be almost impossible to eliminate alcohol at tailgaters on football weekends; therefore, these should be allowed," the report states. 

But members of the University's Board ofTrustees who reviewed the report argued that this was inconsis­tent ·with the essence of moderate social drinking. "This was an area that the Board of Trustees was ter­ribly concerned about," said John Goldrick, associate vice-president for residence life. "When they brought this up, it seemed to make a distinction between alcohol abuse and where it was done. And it seemed not to address the final issue ­the responsible use of alcohol." 
"It became a matter of legal liability as well as educational liability," he said. 
Tyson agreed. "That's basically true. The trustees pointed out the inconsistencies within the report. Even students pointed out the ludicrousness ofsome of the recom· mendations of the report as compared to others. I could see that it was a blaring inconsistency," he said. "The acceptance of tailgaters was clearly out of mind of what the committee meant by the spirit ofthe report." 
Parties are still outlawed in the current new regulations. "No alco· hoi may be served in private rooms at any social gatherings that for any reason extend beyond the privacy of the room in which they are held," the document states. "Moreover, any gatherings in private rooms, regardless of the presence of alco· hoi, that are not consistent with the good order of the residence hall .are not allowed." 
Rectors are being encouraged to use "good common sense and good discretion" in determining whether or not a social gathering is a "party," said Goldrick. 
Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for student affairs, defined the type of social gathering that would be, allowed as "the type of gathering you could expect to be reasonable in your own home." She added, "This is really to help protect the rights of the kids." 
Goldrick noted that the mainte· nance of good order will depend on common sense judgement on the part of the students. 
He added that contrary to what the first draft of the alcohol directives said, "No numeric values will be set" on the amount ofpeople who can congregate in a dorm room. 
Numeric values have been set on 
the number of all hall parties that 
will be allowed per semester. "Each 
hall may have a maximum oftwo ( 2) 
see ALCOHOL, page 5 
From the PACE to the protests: tracing the story 

Editor'snote-Thea/cobolcommit· tee's report and the directives which resultedfrom it were a volatileissue on campus lastsemester. A shortbis­toryoftheissuemayhelpthe reader to become up to date: 
eNov.30,1982-ProvostTimothy O'Meara presents University Presi· dent Theodore Hesburgh with "A Report on Priorities and Commit· ments for Excellence (PACE) at the UniversityofNotre Damc."ThePACE report was compiled by a committee of faculty and staff and chaired by O'Meara. It examines all aspects of campus life, making recommen· datlonswherethecommitteethought imprnvemcnt was needed. Among these isRecommendatiml34 which statesthattheProvostshould''appoint a committee of administrators, fac· ulty,rectorsandstudentstodrawupa public statement on responsible drinking;toconsiderwhetherpresent practices and policies on alcohol are conducive to responsible drinking; and to recommend new policies where appropriate." 
•Sept. 14,1983-Father William Beauchamp, chairman ofthe Univer· slty Committee on the Responsible Use of Alcohol, tells the Hall Presi· dents' Council ofthe University's im· pending reevaluation of the alcohol policy. Beauchamp expresses the com!)11ttee'sconcernsabout campus alcoholconsumptionandtellsofplans 
to send out questionaircs to ap· 
proxiamately 700 parents to gather 
their opinions on the matter. He tells 
the group that a policy statement 
would be drawn up taking into ac· 
count both the parental response and 
the opinions ofthe student.'> who will 
be affected by the resolution. 

•Oct.13,1983-Father DavidTyson, 
a member ofthe alcohol committee, 
tells a meeting of students in Zahm 
Hall,"l'mwillingtogotoadrycampusif 
that is what is needed, but I'd really 
rather not." 

Beauchamp, who alsoattended the 
meeting, adds, "lfsolving theproblem 
requirestougheningtherules,suchas 
a dry campus, so be it." 

•Feb. 22,1984-Brian Callaghan, 
1983-84 student body president, ad· 
mils he knew he would be unable to 
discuss the proceedings of alcohol 
committee before he becamea mem· 
ber. Confidentialityofthecommittee 
meetingsisfurther emphasizedwhen 
Beauchamp tells a lecture audience 
that a post-lecture question and an­
swerpcriodwlll"atleastbeaquestion 
period; I don't know If we'll give 
answers or not." 

•Feb. 23,1984 -Notre Dame stu· 
dentsgivetherestofthecountrya~a'ite 
of things to come during the 
Marquette-Notre Dame basketball 
gameintheACC.Hundredsofstudents 
wave signs which protested the dry 
campus possibility. The signs were 
distributedbyStudentsforContlnued 
Responsible Drinking. 

•Feb.29,1984-Asaprcludetothe 
alcohol committee's final report, the 
HPC states alcohol is needed on 
campus though excessive drinking 
must oe discouragca. 

•March1,1984-OcanofStudents 
see HISTORY, page 5 

The Observer Saturday, August 25, 1984 -page 2 
In Brie£ 
CorbyTavern,apopularstudentbarlocatedat1026Corby Ave., has beenclosedbytheInternal Revenue Service for failure topay nearly S 13,000intaxes.Corby'swasseizedandclosedThursdayduringa "collection inforcement procedure," according to Deborah Moore, public affairs officer for theI.R.S. inIndianapolis. The ownerofthe bar, Harold Rowley Jr., wasmurderedinanexecution-styleshootingAug.1. Thebarandthe rest ofRowley's holdings arebeing administered by his father,HaroldA.Rowley,Sr.,untiltheestateissettled. S 12,908.15worth of employment taxes must be paid before the bar can re-open. -The Observer 
VoterregistrationatSaint Mary's for the 1984 National Election will take place tomorrowfrom 1:30 to 3:30inAngela Athletic Facility and on Monday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in LeMans Hall lobby. Registration is sponsored by Campus Ministry, Christian Life <::ouncil, and Saint Mary's Peacemakers. -The Observer 
\VhenFoodServicesDirectorwmiamJ.Hickey, Jr. tolddininghall workers in 1982that"you'reheretoservethestudents as customers," they wereatfirst "bewildered," according to the May9 issue ofRestaurants andInstitutions magazine. Now two years after Hickeycametocampus,theivyAward-consideredthemostprestigious awardgivenintheindustry-hascometoNotreDame'sFoodSeryices. The magazine article details thereasonsNotreDame was chosenasthebest 
food service atan institution. Much creditgoes to Hickey, accordingto themagazinewhichsponsorstheIvy A ward. "Hickey'sstyleofspeaking reflects his style ofworking: high-energy, non-stop and hard-hitting," the magazine said. "Is ita ton oftofu, a seaofspaghetti ora mountainof mostaccioli? William). Hickey,Jr., ... doesn't care as long as the food quality is tops (and) the presentation is creative." The Food Services most impressive project, according to the magaZine, was the catered cocktailreception,asit-downdinnerandabrunch,servedfor1O,OOOat the 1984 Junior Parents Weekend. -The Observ.er 
Atleastahalfdozensikh militants, demanding togo to the United States, hijacked an Indian jetliner carrying approximately lOOpeopleandafterstopsinPakistanandDubaiforcedtheplanetohead forEuropeearlytoday.Thedagger-armedskypirates,protestingactions bytheindiangovernmentagainstSikhsdemandingmoreautonomyfor Punjabstate,seizedtheshort-rangeBoeing737oflndianAirlinesFriday while it was on a domestic flight. After stops in the Pakistani cities of Lahore and Karachi, where seven hostages were freed, the hijackers orderedthe pilottofly to the United Arab Emirates, a grouping ofsmall Arab states at the southern tip of the Persian Gulf. Officials refused permissionforthetwo-engine jet to land at theemirates'northernmost Sharjah airport at 2 a.m. Saturday, 8 p.m. EDT Friday, but an hour later allowed it to make a refueling stop at Dubai. -AP 
A rush-hour explosion , apparently caused by a bomb, buckled walls on three sides ofa seven-story building housing government offices in downtown johannesburg today. The area was quickly cordoned off and police said there was no word yet about casualties. The blast occurred after the normal closing hour for government offices. Police at the scene said theysuspected a second, unexploded, bomb was still in the building and they ordered nearby shopkeepers to shut down and leave the area. -AP 
Radical Shiite Moslems ransa~ked the consuiar sectionattheSaudiArabianEmbassycompoundyesterday,hoursaftera rocketattackontheBritish Embassy in mostly Moslem westBeirut. The government, meanwhile, announceditwas requesting a U.N. Security Councildebateonisrael'soccupationofsouthernLebanontotrytoend alleged "fascist practices" againsttheareapopulation.An underground group involved in guerrilla warfare against the Israeli army claimed responsibility for the overnight rocket attackon the British Embassy, which caused damage to the visa section but no casualties. It said the embassywashelpingthe''sonsofsouthernLebanon" emigrate, thereby helping Israel by removing tht: inhabitants oftheoccupiedarea. -AP 
Weather 
Bright sunshine and cool nights [ · :0~ are on tap for the weekend, but the pleasant weather is ~:l:'
,

not expected to last long. Hot humid air will return r#". Monday or Tuesday when the massive high pressure , """""' covering the eastern half of the nation stalls. Highs I today and tomorrow will be in the low to mid-80s. Low tonight, in the 50s. -The Observer -­
The Observer 

Today's issue was produced by:
The Observer ( ~-~p~ ';<)<) z ... ooo) i• puhli•hed Monday !hrough Friday and on howe foothall Sarurdays. t:xccpr 
Design Editor........ Thomas Robert Small Design Assistant ..................john Mennell
durin!( exam and vacation pt.:rim.l~. The Observer is puhli~hc..·d hy tht· studt·nt~of 
Layout Staff.........................A5sorted folks tht· l'nivt'rsity of Notre Dame: and Saint 
Typesetters.............................................. Me!!! News Editor ............................. Tom Mowle
:o.lan··, Colkg<·. 'uh•criplion' may he purt.·ha.'K."d for 52';. pt:r }Tar (SIS pt·r 
Copy Editors .......................Sarah and Dan 
Sports Copy Editor ...................jeff Blumb
scmt·stt~r) by writing The Observer, 
Viewpoint Layout..................joe Murphy
P.O. Box Q, Noire Damt·.lndiana ~6~'>6. 
Ad Design ......................................... Suzanne sociated Press. All rc:produt·tion riJ;tht~ 
The Observer i~ a nu·mhc . .-r ofThe As­

Photographer ........................... Pete Laches 
arc fl'!'ll'r\'ed. 
l§
~ 




1 BAPTIST I 
~ t §
1 S udent 1I Union 
lis 
i s
1 Bible Study -Fellowship -Fun 1
I Join * Monday, September 10, 1984 I 
§ u 1 * llme,7p.m. ~ 

L.r~.coor:r~.r.r.r~.r.r~~.r~_::_::~_:~~.r.r.r.r.r.r.r~ 

Carpet your dorm room with thick, beautiful carpet, but not empty your pocketbook! Sizes from 6X9, 12X7, 12X8 12X9,12X12,12X13,12X14,12Xl5,12Xl6,12Xl8 
and up. 
DORM ROOM SPECIALS 
Additional IS% OFF 
with coupon 
Bring Your Measurements VISA and MasterCard accepted 
Open Daily 10-6 Sat. 10-5 234-5148 Closed Sunday 
The Observer Saturday, August 25, 1984 -page 3 

Student Affairs Office gets new chief, team 
By SARAH HAMILTON superiorofthe Congregation ofHoly this "big picture': there is one area News f:dttor Cross. with which he is particularly Tyson's appointment was ap· concerned. Tyson said he thinks 
Father David Tyson, formerly provedat the BoardofTrusteesMay 4 academic life and student life have executiveassistanttothepresidentof meeting. Tyson said he wassurprised been divorced. He wants to work to the University, has been named vice by the board's choice; however, he reunite these two aspects of the presidentforstudentaffairstoreplace added he has "been involved in college experience. Father John Van Wolvlear, who StudentAffairs for a long time." In the OnceTysonrestructuredtheoffice retired last spring. past Ty:~on has serVed as a resident he beganlooking for people to staft it. 
Van Wolvlear, vice president for assistant in Flanner and an assistant "I said, do I know any people that student affairs for six years, said he rector in Dillon. Presently he is living given these structures would be 
wanted to return to parish work. He in Dillon. good...l did the structure first," hadservedinSt. Francis Xavier Parish After assuming thevicepresidency explained the vice president. in Burbank, Calif., before coming to in early June Tyson proceeded to In June Tyson announced three Notre Dame in 1978. restructure the office. He said he did appointmentstotheOfficeofStudent 
In September Van Wolvlear will this by asklnghimself, "lflcameoffthe Affairs. John Goldrick was named 
participate in a priest renewal street and there was no structure associatevicepresidentforresidence program in Menlo Park, Calif. He said what kind ofgeneral areas do I see?" life. Sister Jean Lenz was appointed he also may take courses at the He determined there are two such assistant vice president for student 
University ofCalifornia at Berkeley's areas: residential and student affairs. And Father Francis Cafarelli School of Theology. He is on services. was named assistant vice president sabbatical this year while he waits for "I would really like my role to look for student services. an assignment from the provincial at thebigpicture,"said Tyson. Within These three replaced James 
NAVY MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE 
Navy Medical Scholarships provide:
* 
Your lull tuition, authorized lees and educational expenses.

* 
The cost of required books and supplies.

* 
Rental lees lor necessary equipment such as microscopes.

* 
A monthly cash payment directly to you, to spend as you please! 


Part1cipat1on 1n the Navy Health Professions Scholarship Program does not Involve any m1l1tary training nor requ1res weanng of a Navy un1form. Your academiC routine and lifestyle w11f remain ~he same as other medical students. 
Qualifications for this scholarship include: Be accepted for the next entenng class or currently enrolled in an approved school of medicine or osteopathy. Be a U.S. citizen. Be physically qualified lor a commission as a Naval Officer. 
For more information contact Kathy Scanlon TOLL FREE 1-800-382-9782 or local 269-6199 
Or write to: Medical Programs Room 646 · 575 N. Pennsylvania Indianapolis, IN 46204 
Roemer, dean of students; Father He will serve as the office's liaison 
Michael Heppen, directorofhousing; with auxiliary services. This includes and Father Gregory Green, assistant such services as the book store and vice president for student affairs, in maintenance. the senior positions in the office. Each ofthe three men not asked to 
Goldrick served as director of be part ofthis "team approach" were admissions for 13 years. As associate offered other jobs within the vice president he will be the chief university. Roemer has been student judicial officer handling all appointed director of community disciplinary matters and other relations and special programs. judicial concerns. He also will Heppen has assumed Cafarelll's post oversee the selection and training of as director of student ·'«ccounts. resident assistants. Green has been named director of 
Hall government and hall life also pastoralservicesandassociate rector 
are under Goldrick's jurisdiction. He of Sacred Heart. 
is the liaison between StudentAffairs Roemer will be the university's and the athletic department and the principle liaison with the local community and local government. governments, neighborhood organi­For thepast 11 years Lenz has been zations, the United Religious the rector of Farley Hall and an Community and similar groups, instructor in the theology depart­United Way and member organiza­ment.Inhernewofficeshe"willwork tions, ethnic groups, business and directly with the directors of industry, service groups and 
international students, minority professional organizations. He will students, student activities, transfer also serve as an officler in the Alumni students" and act as liaison with Association. 
admissions, financial aid and the DirectorofStudentAccountsis not Center for Social Concerns, accor­anewpositionfor Heppen. He served ding to Lenz. in this post prior to his tenure as 
Cafarelli has worked in the housing director. Freshman Year ofStudies office, as an assistant rector of Zahm Hall, and Green's appointment is part of a most recently, as director ofstudent reorganization of Campus Ministry, accounts.lnhisnewpositionCafarelli now called University Ministry. will oversee University Health Greendescribedhisnewjobastrying Services, student activities, student to serve "the principle needs of the facilities, student media and broader community" particulary its government and placementservices. sacramental and liturgical needs. 
• JOIN UP e JOIN UP e JOIN UP e JOIN UP e JOIN UP e JOIN UP • JOIN UP e t5 
i~ ACTIVITIES NIGHT : z ; Monday, September3, 1984 ! 6 Stepan Center : 
~ 2 
~ 7:00 -10:00 p.m. z 
z ~ 
Q •
. ::; 
!i Find out about all the clubs and organi-~ ~ zations of Notre Dame -sign up with any that : 
• interest you!! Contribute your time and Ideas :S ~ to helping and enjoying the Notre Dame ; Qcommunity. ~ • z:s• 
Welcome Back Notre Dame& St. Mary's! 
Domino's 
Pizza 
Delivers™... 

30 Minutes 
or Free!TM 
" 

All prices subject to Call us. applicable sales tax. 
Our drivers carry less Ask about our party than $20.00. discounts. Limited delivery area. ~ J983 Oomrno's Przza. Inc. 
35313/1009·50 
Coke available ~ ~~~=~'U~'U in bottles. ~ 1835 South Bend Ave. PI8U 23 Center 
:::1 NIOr • dn NIOr e dn NIOr e dn NIOr • dn N:Or • dn NIOr • dn NIOr • dn 



FUTONS 
FANTASfiC PRICES! 
• Superior 100" cotton • Fire Retud•nt • St•in Rnist•nt 
ST ANOARO AND CUSTOM SIZES 
BLUE FULL SIZE JUST 

with this ad s79oo 
-
FUTON PLATFORMS & FRAMES 
futons naturally 
232 South Michigan South Bend, IN 46601 
219.233.8176 Hours: Tues.-Sat. 10-4 

.----~---~--­
The Observer 
Saturday, August 25, 1984-page 4 


WELCO 

• 

BACK STUDENTS 
,  
'  
r  
r,,  •Safe Deposit  
~  Boxes  

•IRA's 

•Travelers Checks 
•Loans 

. 
OPEN A CREDIT UNION ACCOUNT SPECIAL REGISTRATION HOURS: 
MAIN OFFICE:  
.  
•FRIDAY  August24  8:30a.m. to 5:30 p.m.  
•SATURDAY  August25  9:00a.m. to 4:00 p.m.  

ST. MARY'S CAMPUS: 
• SATURDAY 'August 25 9:00a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
(located under the clock tower) 
OUR 24 HOUR AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINES ARE ALWAYS OPEN! SIGN UP FOR AN EXCHANGE CARD. 
Ask about TONE • Y, THE MONEYLINE Access your account with a touch tone telephone \. 
•Savings 
•Share Draft 
•The Exchange 
•CD's 


NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
TEUPHONE 23....11 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 

The Observer Saturday, August 25, 1984 -page 5 

CARPET REMNANT 
• 
Over 500 Remnants • Small and Large Sizes 

• 
Area's Lowest Prices • Delivery Available 

• 
Hundreds of Colors • Best Selection 


Mon. 8:30-8:30 Tues. 8:30-6:00 Weds. 8:30-6:00 Thurs. 8:30-8:30 Fri. 8:30-8:30 

SALE 
Sat. 8:30-5:30 Sun. 1:00-5:30 
Closed Sept. 2 & 3 

FLOOR CENTER 
402 SOlJTH IRONWOOD, MISHAWAKA PHONE: 259-5638 
• CARPET • VINYL • TILE • CERAMIC • WOOD • AREA RUGS 
Alcohol 
continued/rom page I 
All Hall Semi-Formal parties per se­mester," the document states. 
Last May, Former Dean of Stu­dents james Roemer said that this might be a negotiable point in the directives. But Tyson said, "We took this number from the recommen­dation.~ of the alcohol committee. The issue became not so much what is reliable but what is reasonable." He added he didn't think the num­ber would be changed although there wa.~ always the "possiblity for exceptions." 
The first draft of the alcohol directives also stated, "Liquor wlll not be allowed anywhere on campus except in licensed bars. Beer and 


STAYAT 

E! 

The University of Notre Dame, Apple Computer and General Micro have gotten together to bring you a full line of Apple products which are available exclusively to the faculty, staff and students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's at greatly reduced prices. 
At General Micro you can pick from a variety of Apple computer products including the Apple lie, Usa and the popular Macintosh computer. And you can choose from a broad selection of Apple software and peripherals. 
Demand is high, so visit us today to assure timely delivery. 
General Micro, one great reason to stay at Notre Dame. 
.\uthonzttl lil':tit-r
• 

LaFortune Student Center • 239-7477. 283-2726 • Monday-Friday. 10 AM to 7 PM 
wine only are permitted in the residence halls...." 
But the new regulations do not ban liquor. Said Goldrick, "Alcohol is alcohol is alcohol. The distinction has not been made in these regula­tions." 
Tyson explained, "I think it was the previous Student Affairs people who made it beer and wine only. The primary reason for the change in policy is ifthe University says that consumption in moderation is allowed then we allow the con­sumption ofalcohol. I don't want to have policies that are meaningless, or not enforced." 
Bars in student's rooms have new rules state. become nothing more than a Goldrick assured that Student M­memory for Notre Dame students fairs had no intention of raiding with the implementation of the new dorm rooms at the sound of tinkling policy. "Any structure which has by quarters, but noted that drinking its appearance the function of ser-games "can be very dangerous ving alcohol is prohibited. Examples biologically." 
of such are structures with chairs, stools, or alcoholic advertisments. Common sense must prevail in that a bar is readily identifiable in our cui­hue," says the policy. 
Goldrick commented, "I trust our hall staiJ enough to sit down with students and discuss whether a structure is a bar or not." He added, "The decision of the rector will be final in all cases." 
The ban on drinking games will continue to be in place. "Any type of drinking games, e.g. 'quarters' or the use of any instrument of alcohol abuse, e.g. 'beer bongs' is a violation ofthe principle ofresponsible drink­ing and is strictly prohibited," the 
Quality 
continued/rom page I 
a certain number for men," said Rooney. 
Despitethelimitedspace, thenum­ber of incoming freshmen has remainedfairly constantoverthepast few years. "It's almost the same as last year's, which was 1793," stated Rooney. "Thelastincreaseiswhenwe increasedthenumberofwomen,"said Bishop."Thegoalatthattimewas1650 and when Pasquerilla East and West were built it increased to 1790." 

History 
continued/rom page I 
jamesRoemer tellsThe Observer that liabilityisamajorconcernoftheUni­versityinstudentalcoholuse."Arewe exposing ourselves to certain law­suits?" he asks. "I think the University willeventuallydecidethatwecan'tdo that anymore." 
•March8,1984-Asourcecloseto the alcohol committee tells The Observer enforcement of a 21-year­olddrinkingageoncampuswillbethe recommendation ofthe comtnittee's final report. Beauchamp comments, "Until the report is done and made public, I don't have anything to say." 
•March14,1984-TheHPCpresents reachesitspeakon the stepsofCorby 
O'Meara with a petition which opposeschanging the alcoholpolicy. The petition is signed by 2,500 stu­dents.MikeCarlin,HPCchairmanand member of the alcohol committee, says,"Wemightaswellgodownkick­ing." 
•Aprll16,1984-Thecommittee releases its final reporton the respon­sibleuseofalcohol.Thereportrecom­mends the elimination of parties in 
~ing
Advice ...-···: 

~Ye~ 
Tno covomor·s task '""'";_.--ro •Oduco Drunk ortvtno 
Even though Notre Dame has in­creased its freshman enrollment, Bis­hop says the quality of the students continue to improve. "This year was the best applicant pool we ever had," 
hesaid."There were6,700applicants to choose from this year but the noteworthyfactoristhatthequalityof all the students remained high." A more difficult freshman application form isoneofthereasonsforthis."The application has become a more intel­
lectualpiecefor them togo through," said Bishop. "Some applicants who would have been ·marginal simply lookedatitanddecidedthatthis is too much." 
privatedormroomsandprohibitsun­derage students from attending par­ties in hall social space. "Student cooperationisessentiallnthispolicy,'' says Beauchamp, "otherwiseit is very likely that the campus will go dry. · Those aren't my words, those are Fa­
ther Hesburgh's." He adds there is, "nobody" to whom students can ap-' 
peal the policy. 
•Aprll17,1984-Roemerreleasesa draft of the directives to be used to implement the new policy. Measures inthedraftbanprivatepartieswhether alcohol is present or not, as well as limitingthenumberofpeoplewhocan be present in private rooms. Hard liquor and bars are also outlawed. 
Later that night, more than 1,500 studentspartlcipatelnaspontaneous rally protesting the policy. The rally 
Hall, home ofHesburgh, as fireworks and-horns fill the still night air with pandemonium. 
•Aprli18,1984-Nearly2,000stu­dent protesters meet in front of the administration building to rally against the new alcohol policy. After listening to speakers such as Student Body President Rob Bertino and HPC Chairman Chris Tayback, the mob storms up the stairs and through the doors oftheAdministration Building. The students end up in the rotunda, cheeringand tossing toilet paperand empty beer cans down from the bal­conies. Roemer attempts to address thegatheringbutisdrownedoutbythe noise and retreated to his office. 
Nationwide, newspapers and tele­vision networks pick up on the protests. 
•Aprll27, 1984 -After a week of student protest sit-ins and disagree­ments between student government and the administration, another rally infront oftheadministration building proves to be a more low·key atlair as student leaders voice their concerns about social life on campus and the administration'sviolationofstudents' rights. 
•May14,1984-Studentsleavethe campusfor the summer not knowing what the alcohol regulations will be upon their return in the fall. 
.Hardware 
•
Lumber 

•
Shelving 


weekdays 8:00-8:00 9:00-5:00 Sat. 10:00-4:00 Sun. 
Werntz 

® 1801 South Bend Ave. Just east of Notre Dame 277-7727 
,.=., 
-
• 
The Observer Saturday, August 25, 1984-page 6 
All SMC freshmen in dorm rooms 

l~~'S d 
\\\~u''' 
\\ -FORMEN AND WOMEN 
ALWAYS $6 HAIRCUT w/ student ID 
Now Featuring: 
SENSOR PERM! 
Scientifically controlled computer programming ensures perfect perming each and every limeI 
$45 Call 234-5350 143 Dixie Way South Roseland 
By ANNE MONASlYRSKI 
Saint Mary's Editor 
No freshman at Saint Mary's will have to remember her first college days as ones spent in Holy Cross Hall parlororthebasementofMcCandless this year. 
Allfreshmenwillhaveadormroom andallotherstudentswillhaverecrea­tion areas thi~ semester because 30 more upperclassmen moved off campus than last year, according to Director of Residence Life, Pat Ris­smeyer. Thirty students attended a workshoponhowtomoveoff-campus
r 
l 
last semester and 25 moved off, said Rissmeyer. No major dorm renova­tions were made during the summer despitethe SI. 3 million earmarked to 
r
, 
r
, 
! r 
~ 
~ 
install newshowersin Holy Cross and install new elevators in LeMans Hall. The renovations are stillplanned but Rissmeyer said she was "disappointed" the changeswere not begun. 
A quint in the basement of Holy Cross was divided into two triples. This year the resident advisors are warning students that all furniture in the dorm rooms must stay in the rooms. Housing contracts always stated that rule, Rissmeyer said, but this year residence life is making "more of an effort to uphold it." 
Twonewhalldirectorshavejoined thestaffofresidencelife:SusanGloreis the new director of LeMans Hall and NanLoyisdirectorotMcCandlessHall. 
Noloftswillbeallowedinthedorms 

as of yet, as a result of recommen­dations made by an engineer, Ris­smeyer said. Rissmeyer began investigating the possibility ofbuild­ing lofts in Regina singles in order to create more space. But the design includedrestingpartofthe lofton the window ledge, which, according to the engineer was unsafe. Rissmeyer was''reallydisappointed''becauseshe .had the plans ready to go. "We've (Residence Life) done what we can," andwillpursue theissueno more,but she said that Student Government planstocontinueexploringotherpos­sibilities, and she "won't veto" a feasible alternative. Lofts in other dorms and another plan for lofts in Reginaarestillapossibility,according 
to Rissmeyer. 

Anheuser-Busch brews the most SAY WHEN" and when. you should popular family of beers in the world. not attempt to drive. No one takes more time or goes to At""Anheuser-Busch, we are con­more expense in brewing. And so, no cerned about you, our valued one achieves the flavor we do. Our customers. We support research, great taste and quality can be fully education and treatment aimed at appreciated by drinking and enjoying combating alcoholism and alcohol our beers in MODERATION. abuse. 
When you are out with family and To obtain your personal key ring, friends enjoying our beer, do so in send $1.50 which includes postage MODERATION. Here's something and handling to: that can assist you -a key ring MODERATION KEY RING guide to responsible beer drinking. It W. 1614 Riverside will help you to "KNOW WHEN TO Spokane. VVA 99201 



-st.. ~-$~.$rm
~ 
ONE OF THE ANHEU',ER·BUSCH COMPANIES 
---------------~-------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Saturday, August 25, 1984 -page 7 
WHEN YOU NEED A LIFT Remember Reliable YELLOW HERTZ 
CAR & TRUCK RENTAL
CAB COMPANY 
• Lowest Rates: 4 ride for price of 1 between ND/ St. Mary's and downtown/ shopping centers 
• 24-hour radio-dispatched service 
• 
Limousines available 

• 
Serving N D/St. Mary's students since 1928 


233-9333 
• 
Cars, trucks and vans 

• 
Rent by day, week or longer 

• 
Car rentals local or one-way 

• 
Open 7 days a week 

• 
Most convenient location for checking in and out 


232-5871 
Convenient location near Notre Dame campus 
710 North Niles Avenue, South Bend 
Admissions breaks the age barrier 
By TOM MOWLE 
Day Chief 
Not all Notre Dame freshmen are 
1 7-19 years old, coming to college 
after four years of high school. This year's freshman class includes a 13­year-old .from California and a 31­year-old businessman from New York. 
Narciso "N.J." Jaramillo of Rialto, California, chose to attend Notre Dame over such schools as Stanford, Cal Tech and Rice because he felt it had a "good environment" when he visited the campus last March. 
Another factor in his decision was the finanicial aid the University of­fered him. 
During the summer of 1983, 

Macri's Deli Welcomes ND/SMC Class of '88 
Great Reasons To Stop in at Macri's Deli: 
Unique Sandwich Menu: Gyros Beef and Company Old Chicago Crescents plus 20 more! 
Soups, Salads, Appetizers, Desserts 
Wide Satellite Screen T.V. 
Beerand Wine Casual Atmosphere 
PLUS: 
Football Catering (Tailgaters) 
3 foot or 6 foot Sandwiches Meat and Cheese Trays Special Boxed Lunches 
Mon-Thurs 11:30-10:00 Fri-Sat 11:30-11:00 
Opening Sundays after Labor Day 
--------------------------------------------------1 Nachos orSpecial Nachos Grande 1
rI 
I I 
1 Reg. $3.50 I
I $2.00 with this COUPON i L--------------------------------------------------J 
Jaramillo attended a summer pro­gram at Arizona State University. On the recommendation of the pro­gram's director, he began taking ad­vanced courses so he would be able to attend college after three years of high school. 
Jaramillo's counselor at Aquinas High School in San Bernadino, a Notre Dame graduate, encouraged his application to college, telling Don Bishop, a counselor in the Ad­missions Office, "He is a mature per­son with a mind that deserves to be in college." 
Bishop said Notre Dame "wouldn't always admit someone at his age, even with his academic credentials." Jaramillo was admitted on the basis of three days of inter­views last spring, his activities in school, and his application essay, which Bishop termed "one of the best from any applicant." 
Bishop added, "He wouldn't've been admitted ifwe felt he would've had traumatic problems" adjusting to college life. 
Father Matthew Miceli, rector of Jaramillo's dormitory, Cavanaugh hall, said, "I think he'll fit in well. He's very capable and seems very mature for his age. He's certainly not bashful -he's very open and friendly." 
Jaramillo himselfis resigned to re­ceiving a lot of attention during the first couple of weeks before being "treated as a normal human being." He plans to major in Math or Electri­cal Engineering. 
Christopher Gates operated his family's department store in Cor-
SMC 
continuedfrom page 1 
and their parents was changed from tonight to last night. 
A group of 50 orientation coun­selors, also known as Peer Group Leaders,weretrainedandestablished as a new branch of the orientation committee. Theyarerecognizable by their T-shirts with a sailboat and the 

The Observer /Pete Laches 
Narciso "N.J. "Jaramillo 
ning, New York, before coming to Notre Dame. He said he "always wanted to go to school, but never had the opportunity." After the sud­den death of his parents a year ago, he decided to pursue his interests in the theology and philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas and to "study un­der these men I respect at Notre Dame." 
He made arrangements for the op­eration of the store until his brother could take it over, and moved with his family to Niles, Michigan. After school, he plans to attend graduate school and make a career of teach­ing. He is married with three sons, aged nine, seven, and four. 
motto "taking new directions." Each leader,assigned to lOto 12freshmen, provides information and assistance in academic, religious, and social aspects of college life. lbe group is designed as a replacement for the Big Sister/UttleSisterprogramandamore "continuous (program) to gradually getfreshmenadjusted,not just throw­ing everything at them," said Annie Hudak,chalrwomanoftheorientation 
committee. 
BAKER's BIKE SHOP Inc. 

scHV4\tU~ Bicycles 
Parts, Accessories, 
and Service for all Makes 
277·8866 
NOTE: Bicycle storage available from 11-8-84 to 4-30-85 Coil lor details 
In Roseland one half mile north of campus on U.S. 31 Closed Sunday and Monday 
Windjammer Hair Design Welcomes freshman 
Bring in a Notre Dame 10 and receive these discout prices: 
men's stylecuts $10  reg.$13.50  
women's stylecuts $13.50  reg. $17.00  
Call for Appointment  232-6622  

Open late Thursday night 1637 Lincolnway West 

Saturday, August 25, 1984-page 8 
The Observer 




SANDOCK'S ~::CARPET-WAY 
.>/.-;·:$:·::··:··..-.....:..,-,.:::•.-,.-,.//.,., 
ONE OF THE 
WORLD'S GREATEST!' 
CARPET REMNANT 

SALE 
r 
r SALE HOURS: r 
r 
r WEEKDAYS 10 'TIL 9 PM 
, 
SATURDAY 10 'TIL 5:30 
r 
r
, SUNDAY 1 'TIL 6 PM 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
PET 
r 
r 
r 
r 
••• of all 1st quality LEES and CABIN CRAFTS carpeting 

*APAMDEMOMIUM Of VALUE! 
*AREVELRY OF SAVING! 
Coloual Lees! Titanic Cabin Crafts! The ware­house of t+.ese giants were glutted with remnants, 
loaded wit+. roll-ends, pieces accumulated from their greatest season ever, In such profusion as to throttle their operations near-completely. They had to sell and sell quickly -and t+.at's when "CARPfT-WAY" s•epped ln. Wit+. a dramatic, hard cash wipe-out oHer, we bought every single piece we could at bore rock -bottom -and now we pan the savings on to youI 
PERFECT FOR • • •. 
BUY NOW FOR••• BEDROOMS 
FLOORS BATHROOMS 
WALLS KITCHENS 
STEPS BASEMENTS 
DECKS 

Sorry No lay-a-way, Na haAcl ardera, No phane or mall o.-den, All wbled ta priar oale, All pricing Ia ­cnh and corry baala, AI d'"->slona ... minlmuom. 
FREE FRONT DOOR PARKING 
* CHOOSE FROM 1700 P'ECES! 
* PLEASE -NO DEALERS 
• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE 
Shag, twist, plush, loop, tweed, cut/uncut, milti-level figured 
• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES 
Snap up t+.ese values on the spat 
• LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY 
Our Country's finest, most famous mills
-
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
Moderate Charge 
INSTALLATION AVAILABLE 
IDEAL FOR. . . TRAILERS COnAGES CLOSETS STATION WAGONS 
liiiiiiiiliil FINANCING 
• AVAILABLE 
PERFECT FOR .. 
DORMITORIES 
APARTMENTS STUDY ROOMS ANY ROOMS 
OTHER REMNANT GROUPS NOT LISTED 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
Gold  Ivory  Carmel  Jonq"'il  Oriental  
'Ink  Nugget  A.pri(Of  Sauterne  'lneapp..  
AqiJO  Saddle  A•ocodo  Abtlntt\•  Gardenia  
lime  litque  DretcMn  Amberglo,.,  'klming•  
Jade  A1oa.a  lohotn<Q  lluebel!  'ooltlcle  
Coin  Cerite  Paprika  loybell  latftftGr..n  
Olive  Copper  Seville  Hyacinth  Cloudy Jade  
Gr..n  Nougat  Jonquil  HeliotraP4  Frosted Coco.  
Beige  'urple  Honey  Cor~ea led  Preuo llue  
Carmel lron1:e  ~···(Autumn  Iron&• Magenta  Ivy Gr..n Monderin  Grecian Olive Mont.._.o Sond  
White  Ret~~ a I  Soddle  Oteon Green  Muffin hie­ 
Aa:urw  Marine  lisque  Turquolte  WhlteGro,..  

AREA'S LARGEST CARPET SPECIALTY STORE 
CARPET-WAY
MARY'S)
N D AND S T.
31 IWAY-BETWEEN • . N 0 DIRECTIONS: TAKE-,~·SON SAML S10E oF H•wPY As · • 50760 U.S. 31 North H TO SANDOCK • South Bend, Indiana ... next door 

~i~~~_()__i_J1___t________________sa_m_roa-y,_~_~_st~25_,_19-84~-P-~-e9 
Building the future 
WdcometoNotreDameandSai nt Mary's, wheretheechoesneversleepandthesprinklersnever rest. Welcome, indeed, toaplace that haschanged quitea bit sinceyou checkedthe "Yes"boxon your confirmation form. 
'Jbechangesmaybefoundintheinfamousalcoholpolicy,summariesofwhichhavebeenplaced ineverydormitoryroomoncampus.Asyoureadthesectionsofrules,finesandjustifications, try to imaglneacampuswheremostofthosethingsoncewerepermitted-oratleasttolerated.Soundskind of fun, huh? 'lbat was the ol' Notre Dame. 
'Jbe new Notre Dame begins today. As incomingfreshmen, your challenge is toplay a majorrole in theshapingofa new collegiate atmosphere, one that is supposed to be less dependent on alcohol for its existence. 
Upperclassmencanhelp. '11te policies have affected them most. Sure, somereturningstudents have moved or will routinely travel off campus, and others will circumvent the rules to try to preserve a lifestyle that has served them well. But many students will be in the same boat as you...underage and looking for diversions on the weekend. 
If you always depend on South Bend or even Chicago to entertain you, you'll be in for a disappointment.Alcoholpolicyornot,NotreDameandSalntMary'sareresidentialcampuses;most life outside the library wlll remain within the boundaries of the 46556 zip code. 
'lbereorganizedStudentActivitiesBoard,boostedbyafundingincrease,isplanningtoprovidea broader selection ofevents, including more concerts and festivals. A shake-up in the Office of Student Atf.tirs can only be seen as an attempt to make the administration more attuned to the students.AndtalkofseriousrenovationsoradditionstotheLaFortuneStudentCenterseemtohave moved past the lip-servite stage. 
Butsuchimprovementswill not replacewhatstudentshavedonefor years, namely socialize in thepresenceofalcohol. '11tose whowrotethepolicywouldlikeforyoutosimplyabidebytherules and move on, something akin to stomaching bad medicine. It's won't be that easy. 
01'Notre Dame will neverbethesame.Disobediencewillonlyrecoversomeofthepast;you,the freshmen, must work toestablishwhat Notre DameandSaint Mary's will belike in thefuture. The creativity is out there, and now is the time to start working. Good luck-and again, welcome. 
-The Observer 


You are each others' best hope at Notre Dame 
Three years ago I underwent the same orientationproceduresyouarenowbeginning. I was confident that I was at one of the great universities in the nation, a place where people 
Dave Grote 
Speaking out of turn 
worked together to learn more about themselves and the world in which they live. Notre Dame,l felt, wouldbeaplacewhere I, as a responsible individual, could mature. In short, as a freshman Notre Dame seemed a great university. 
As my years at Notre Dame have past, I gradually had toface a dissapointingrealization that Notre Dame is a institution with its strengths and weaknesses. The confidence and enthusiasm I felt as a Notre Dame freshman have been replaced by a sad sobriety. The Notre Dame mystique is merely a facade which hides acedemic inadequacies, a stagnated adminis­tration and a lack of commitment. 
'11te academic inadequacies are many.' The faculty is, in some areas, excellent. Unfortunately, the quality ofthe faculty suffers from a lack of commitment by the administration to recruit great teachers. Further, many faculty members resent the administration's condescending attitude as to how faculty members should allocate their time. 
'lbefacilitesareinadequate.Theengineering and science labs, which as an engineer I know firsthand, are in need of new equipment. The Memorial Library, despiteitsgrandappearance, 
does not have the proper research resources available. 
Most significantly, Notre Dame lacks a social atmosphere.Thenewalcoholpolicyis a shining example ofan adminstratlon which breaks the existing social structure without offering any alternatives. What students are supposed to do for recreation is anybody's guess. 
During the past three years, I have seen a manipulative, politically astute administration time the releases of its decisions affecting campus life so as to deny students and faculty members input. 
Fortunately, Notre Dame's student body more than balances any of the University's weaknesses. During orientation, speaker after speakerwill tell you that you areamongthe best students in the nation. Beleive them. The credientials you bring here rival those of students at America's finest institutions. Notre Damegraduates great people because it begins with great people. 
You are each others' best hope for learning and growing. Whether your memories of this placearefond ones will dependon the help you give eachother. Expect to beoverprotectedby an administration whichwilltend totreatyou as children,butal ways realize thetruthaboutyour abilities and intelligence. Expect no new social alternatives from the adminstration, but seek each other out for friendship. Remember, you are each others' best hope. 
MaybesomedayNotre Dame will be thegreat University 1 dreamed it was a.o; a freshman. Maybe someday I will be as proud of the University as I am of my fellow students. For now, that someday seems a long way away. 

Pressure, parents and promises for ND family 
Other "Veteran Domers" will no doubtedly tell you, theClassof1988,about Emil and about the new alcohol policy. I will not. Instead, this <:olumn is about pressure, parents and promises. 
Joseph Murphy 
Wishful thinking 
'Ibis past week Ireceived a phone call from a man who hopes hisson will be a member ofthe Cla.~s of 1989. 'lbe man a.~ked that I tell his son how one becomesa"Domer" and what exactly "Domers"do. So being the man for others that I am, I met with his son. 
Young Bill reminded me of myself. Here he was, not even officially a senior in high school, already worried about college life. He had obviously hel·n placing a great deal ofpressure on himself to sucl·eedand becomea"Domer."l told him you do not have tobea"Domer" tobea success. 
Thepressure Bill isfacing is compounded by the fact that his parents, like most catholic parents, want him to attend "The Golden Dome." Bill wanted to know whether he could get accepted and whether he could survive at Notre Dame. I told him he would answer those questions himself in the very near future. 
For the Class of 1988, the first question no longer remains a hurdle, butI am sure, if you are like me, then the second remains a nagging doubt hidden somewhere in the back of your head. Though neverspoken orally, the doubt is always therl' for the first few months. 
To the Class of 1988, some simple advice is offered. First, donotlet thepressuregetthebest ofyou. Your parents will be just as proud ofyou whetheryou make the Dean'sHonorList or not. Second, keep in dose touch with your parents and relatives for theyare asource ofinspiration onmanylonelynights.Stayparticularlydoseto your grandparents for you are their golden dome which keeps them young. 
Fourth, remember it is a privilege to attend Notre Dame, but it is a privilege you are paying for. To not accept second-bestfrom yourselfor your school. Go beyond your potential and expect Notre Dame to go beyond its. That is all anyonecanaskofyouandall you canaskofNotre Dame. Simply be the best. 
Fifth, and above all, remember that not everyone'sliferevolvesaroundNotreDame. Be proud, but always be humble. The purpose of your education is not to place you above the masses, but enable you to lead the masses. 
Tothemothersofthisclass,I merelysaythatit isalrighttocrywhenyousaygood-bye(it'sokay for the dads too, but few would ever admit to such an emotional outburst). However, if you cry, cry for the right.reasons. Cry because you have given your children an opportunity you probably never received. Cry because your childrenare no longerunderyourroof, andyou will miss them. Cry because you love them. 
Parents remember that for every parting thereis a homecoming.Yourchildrenhaveonly leftyourhouse,notyou. Rejoice in this triumph. You have raised your children well. Call often, send surprises through the mail and one day 
four years from now your children will return havingbecome the type ofpeople you are. That 
is a pFOmise. 
Letters policy 
Have you read something in The Observer you didn't quite agree with? Ifso, write a letter to the editor. Letters to the editor must be well-written and typed. They mustalso bear the address, telephone number and signature ofthe author( initials and pseudonyms are not ac­ceptable). Material shorter than 200 words will receive priority. All letters are subject to editing and become the proper~v ofThe Observer. 
The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre D.ame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager . . . . .. Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller . . . . . . . . Maripat Horne 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor . ....... Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the polic1es of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor . . . . . . ... Dan McCullough Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966
community, and the free expressiOn of varying opir,~ions on campus, through letters. Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy is encouraged. Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches 
The Observer Saturday, August 25, 1984-page 10 

We are only minutes from campus 
CO""J"'~...o"""~...OOCCoo~~_,....o""_,.,......_,....c
.........•....................,
. 
~~~~~~~~ 
BANKING••• NOW ON CAMPUS AT ST. MARYS 
1st Source Bank's office, located at St. Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to St. Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 27 banking loccttions to serve you! 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. 
e ~MAR..'!S ~Mm.'S SNHr~SNHrMAR.'!S e
• IH~[H~IHEA~IH~ • 
•• ;. •
• A.llblTlON5 • : open to all students ,.••• 
: no expenence necessary • 
: AUGUST 30 •
•
• 7=00 pm •
•
: LIBRARY AUDITORIUM •
•
: ------NOTRE DAME --• : AUGUST 31 •
•
• 7:00pm • : LITTLE THEATRE •• : -----SAINT MARY'S : 
• Over 20 roles for men & women; technical • • positions available sign up at auditions • 
• Scripts on loan from theatre dept offices • 
• do eomethlng daring • 
Join Michiana's 1st Team for unsurpassed banking service! Member F.D.I.C. 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE 
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $1000 a month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join their company after graduation? Under a special Navy program we're doing just that. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate­College Program. And under It, you'll not only get great pay duringyourjunior and senior years, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or physical science, find out more today. And letyourcareer pay off while still in college. For more information, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: CALL TOLL FREE 1 -800 -382 -9782 Navy Representative will be on campus Oct. 10 & 11 at the Placement Office 

. f%1-------,Satnt Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME, I NOlANA

Welcome Fresh111en 
Shaheen Bookstore 
M, T, Th, F 8:30a.m.-4:30p.m.
All Kinds of People 
Wednesday 8:30a.m.-6:00p.m.
Shop GOODWILL -except first week of classes Saturday 9:00a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
for All Kinds of Reasons 
Your full-service college store. 
N.Y. Times subscriptions • best sellers • candy 
Come and See Why! gifts • t-shlrts • magazines and much morel 
We look forward to seeing you. 
Eddy Street (across from Nickles) ---------------------------------------
Shaheen Bookstore




I Bl!~!il,CHIANA, INC 
10% OFF ANY BACKPACK IN STOCK 
1805 Western Ave. • P.O. Box 3128 • South Bend, IN 46619 
expires 9·29·84 
------------------------------------------~~~be~o:r:'bs~e::rr::"::•er Notrc:o Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune 
Student Center, accc:opts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until -4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. Tbe Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar Collegc:o Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 5 p.m .. Mon· day though Friday. Dc:oadline for next-day classifkds is 5 p.m. All classifkds must bc:o prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per tivc:o charac­


Classifieds 
ters r da . 
WELCOME BACK SKIDDERS!!!! Get For all those who give a care, the MAD Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad· Are you in need -of FINANCIAL AID? 
ready to give 'em heU! BEER! (can we CLERIC is back and going at full tilt. Have NOTICES I· ~F_O_R_R_EN_T_____.j .__I_W_A_NT_E_D-----~ print that?). Hey mom I want togo home. a great year on the OBSERVER!
venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See l TC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the 
WELCOME
ROTC Building. (239-6264) SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming 
Ullayette C.C. Gradal Julie Farabaugh Rumor has it that youIN '84-85 there will be no parties but there 
Student Housing. Rated Superior. Clean, still don't know who put the ad in thewill be THE BADLANDS 
an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar·Here lies the Notre Dame student of yes­
High security, smoke alarms, laundry, The fun is only beginning ... OBSERVER last year. Well, T.S. told me
ships? See l TC Bob Skinner or CPTterday, now extinct. If you think of It, have utilities. $110/mo. NE side. 291·1405 
you blame him or P.S. yet I assure you it SKID ROW FEVER! CATCH IT!!II was neither. You'll just have to get your Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239· a Coke for him. 
6264)
WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DRINK BUT BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL-NOTRE sleuthing sense activated. WE DAME'S FAVORITE PASTIME. STILL KNOW HOW TO PARTY!I! TICKETS MADNESS, MADNESSIIIIWE NEED 
.............. ············ .............................. 
MORE MADNESS . 
LOST/FOUND 
Pandora"• welcomes back students. We can help you with all your school needs.
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? I NEED 2-4 TIX FOR THE MISSOURI 
PERSONALS 
Textbooks at 25 percent off, paperbacks, 
Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad· GAME!!!!!! CALL MARIPAT AT 2n·2581 Welcome to the Grand Illusion! 
reference materials. posters for yourventure! SCHOLARSHIPS! See l TC Bob LOST: good insight on alcohol use at OR 239-747t. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman In the Notre Dame. If found please return to 301 room. We're at 937 South Bend Avenue. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Styx ROTC Building. (239-6264) Administration Building. Ask for Ted. It's all starting again ... 
Stop in and save big. 

The Observer Saturday, August 25, 1984-page 11 
@® [I3@lJ®uu@J COMPATIBILITY ••• m@GcsOu C?®C? ·TOTAL PERFORMANCE! 
Profit from Zenith's Z·100 PC Series Total Performance including 16·bit IBM compatibility plus... , 
• Desktop and Portable PC Systems • 128K Memory, 64<J< Expandability • 4 Open Expansion Slots • 10.6MB Built-in 
Winchester Drive* • Zenith Total Service, Technical and Training Support 
data 
A. ?jl!''*
. 
systems 
THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON 
OWN TOTAL PERFORMANCE! See the Z·100 PC Today. 
IS THIS ANY TIME TO THINK 
ABOUTARMY ROTC? 
It's the perfect time. You're a freshman, right7 And you want to make college a real learning experience? Well. ROTC can add a valuable 
dimension to your college education. A dimension of leadership and manage­ment training. And that'll make your 
degree worth more. ROTC offers scholarship and financial opportunities, too. Plus, the opportunity to graduate 
with a commission and begin your future as an officer. 
For more informa-
Call: LTC Bob Skinner 
or CPT Anne Rieman 239-6264 
r-oaoo••oo•~••••oo•") 
~  Campus delivery  
~  for  
~  NewYorkTimes 

IContact: George Devenny 
l:!!:!~~~.r.r.r~~~..c!!~nford 
WELCOME BACK Notre Dame Night 
FREE PIZZA 
Domestic Beer 75¢ House Drinks $1.00 
8 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. Sunday, September 2, 1984 
D.J. Musicfor Dancing 
MR. D's 
1516 N.lronwood South Bend 

233-7747 Ron Delaere 
Fourway Computer Products 51061 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Ind. 46637 277-7720
*Z-150 PC only 

-Saturday, August 25, 1984 -page 12
The Observer 
THE NEW STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
•
PRESENTS: 
WELCOME WEEK 
OPEN AIR CONCERT BAND: THE LAW Monday, August 27 Thursday, August 30 9:00pm-Midnight 5: b-o"-8: OOpm North Quad Fieldhouse Hall 
HYPNOTIST -JAMES MAPES CHANCE-TO-DANCE Tuesday, August 28 Friday, August.31 8:00pm DJ-The Music King Engineering Aud. 9:00pm-Midnight 
Fieldhouse Mall OPEN AIR CONCERT Wednesday, August 29 DRIVING CONTEST 5:00pm-8:00pm August 31/September 1 Fr. Sorin's Statue All day 
ACC Parking Lot SHENANIGANS Wednesday, August 29 MOVIE -"Animal House" 5:00-8:00pm Saturday, September 1 Fr. Sorin's Statue 7, 9, 11pm 
Engineering Auditorium HYPNOTIST SEMINAR Wednesday, August 29 
WARREN DUNES TRIP 6:30pm (On Lake Michigan) Library Auditorium Sunday, September 2 
Leave Main Circle~at !O:OOam 
STEPAN MALL 
Great deals & prices on items for your room: refrigerators, plants, wall hangings, bookcases, carpet, etc. 
Wednesday, August 29 
~rrursday, August 30 10am-6pm Stepan Center 
N.D. CALENDAR OF EVENTS BOOK 
ON SALE at Stepan Mall, Bookstore and Freshman Orientation 
$3.50 (includes crazy photos, maps, listing of campus events, and important information!) 
Searching for fun things to do? Need programming ideas .for your hall,' club, or organization? The newly restructured Student Activities Board can be your solution! 
The Student Activities Board committees invite and encourage participation by the entire Notre Dame community in their many planned activities. 
Movies, dances, AnTostal, Winter Festival, lectures, plays, trips, and much more are being planned just for you! 
.­
The Student Businesses, Irish Gardens, Darby's, and the Record Store, are a great service to the ND stude~t body. 
The ten committees are: 
Ideas & Issues Campus Entertainment Services Musical Entertainment Publicity Calendar 
.. 
Movies Personnel Cultural Arts Special Events 
We invite and encourage you to stop by LaFortune Student Center and become involved on the committee of your choice. 
------~-----------S-a-tu-rda_y_,-A-ugu_s_t_2_5_,-19_8_4---pag_e_1_3___.....,1 
The Observer 
Now looking for experienced Cocktail Waitresses and Door Men Apply in person: Mon. thru Thurs. 1-5 p.m. 
Wygant Floral CO.I~c. 
•"CJ'Qowerrg fprr aQQ occagio"g'' 
Come in and Browse ­
327lincolnway 232-3354' 
Leaders 
continued from pa~e 14 
graduate, he served briefly as an administrative assistant to former football coach Terry Brennan. In 1966,afterpublicrelationsstintswith Mercedes-Benz and the Kansas City Chiefs,hereturnedtohisalmamaterto become sports information director and, ten years later, added assistant athletic director to his duties. Regarded as oneofthebestin his field, V aldiserri has earned 4 3 awardssince 
1976 from the College Sports Information Directors ofAmerica for hissportspublications,manyhonored as the best in the nation. 
JohnHelsler-Nowinhisthirdyear as associate director of sports 
information at Notre Dame after four years as assistant director, the 29-year-old Heisler has had a major role in the editing of a number of award-winning publications. Ten havebeenjudged"Best in the Nation" by College Sports Information Directors of America panels, includ­ingtwoofthelastthreefootballguides. PrevioustocomingtoNotreDame,the South Bend native had been an assistant director at Missouri for one 
year. 
EddieWhite-Athree-yearveteran ofthe Notre Damesportsinformation department, Whiteservesas assistant director following six years in the sports information office at tiny Wilkes College in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. White's duties at Notre Dame center 
around the publication ofbrochures and programs for all sports. He is presently single. 
Mike DeCicco-Better knownas j coach of the highly-successful Notre j Damefencingteam,DeCiccodoubles ~ asacademlcadvisorforallNotre Dame athletes. Responsibility for the 
University's high graduation rate among its athletes lies mainly with DeCicco, whose task is to advise the morethan500athletesatNotreDame. A 1949 graduate of Notre Dame, DeCicco taught for a number ofyears in the University's mechanical engineering department before givingituptoconcentratefull-timeon his job as academic advisor. His fencing teams have brought home an overall record of 4 31-40 since 1962 and were winners of the national championshipinboth 1977and 1978. 
Tlm Dillon -Witll degrees from Slippery Rock State College and EasternKentuckyUniversity,Dlllonis enteringhisfourth season as assistant director of athletics at Saint Mary's. Dillon, who was assistant to Erin Lorenz last year, wlll assist Dr.Jo-Ann 
Nester who was named to succeed Lorenz this year. Dillon was a gymnasticscoachatEastcrnKentucky before moving to Saint Mary's. 
WELCOME BACK Notre Dame Students 
from 
Beacon Bowl 
~\){''"'--Specials-]
75¢ games 50¢ beer with student ID 
4210 Lincoln Way W. 234-4167 located on US 20 by S.B. Airport W•kllfor 111ore epecU.Ia IIIIa Jlll•r 
~ 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
••• ••••• • The Student Activities Board's 
• 
• 
Services Committee­•• 

• 
Presents: •• 


•
•
• •
• 
••• •••••• • STEPAN MALL • •• 
• Stepan Center ••~ednesday,Thursday •• August 29 & 30 •
•
•
10:00 a.m.-6:00p.m. • 
• 
~ *Refrigerator rentals •• •• ••• *600 carpets 
*Bookcases: *clothes:• *Calendars • 
•
•
*Lumber ••
*Sofas & tables :•
*Hammocks ••
•·Wall Hangings :
*·Plants •: 
• 
Saturday, August 25, 1984-page 14
The Observer 
A place for every game 
ND-SMC offers athletic variety 
Whether you enjoy playing foot­ball, basketball, tennis, golf orracquet­ball,orjustlikegoingforanoccasional dip in the swimmingpool, there is an athletic facility for you. The quadsare available in the spring and fall for various activities (although the Uni­versitytendstofrown upontoomuch use of the lawns), while, during the 
coldweathermonths,you canretreat indoors. Here is a list ofthe facilities available to students on both campuses: 
Atbledc and Convocadon Cen­ter-Thedouble-domedACC,located eastoftheStadium,containsmorearea than the Houston Astrodome. The South Dome houses the basketball arenausedbybothmen'sandwomen's varsity teams. TheNorthDomeisused by the hockey, tennis, track teams, amongothers.Withinthestuctureare handball, racquetball, squash, basket­ball, tennis and volleyball courts that areusuallyopentothepublic.Reserva­tions are required for most of the courts.Onemay also take advantage of theicerink,boxingroomandrunning track. For those interested in Notre Dame sports history, many of Notre Dame's awards are displayed outside the athletic department offices. 
Mike Bobinski 
Roger Valdiserri -Valdiserri is entering his second year as associate athletic director after having served seven years as an ~sistant. However, 
Roger Valdiserri 
he is best known for his work as director of the sports information department. A 1954 Notre Dame 
see LEADERS, page 13 


thewestendofcampusisthe 18-hole, 6,500-yard University golf course. The course is open until late fall and reopensin earl yspring. Greenfeesare $2.50 for students, faculty and staff. A!umnicangolffor S5. Thecourseis a par 71 and does not require that the golfer have great skill. 
RockneMemorialBuilding-Lo­catedatthewestendofthesouth quad, "TheRock" is thecenterfor thephysi­cal education program. The brick structure contains basketball courts, handball-racquetballcourts,aweight room, a light apparatusroom, a swim­mingpool,andthegolfproshop.Useof the Rockne Memorial is free to all students and faculty members upon 
Faces 
continuedfrom page 16 
organization~ The 26-year-old Bobinski is a 1979 Notre Dame graduate and a former Irish baseball pitcher who returned to South Bend after two years in management audit and participant accounting with Disney World in Orlando, Fla. He earned two letters as a right-handed pitcherandwasafour-yearmemberof the Irish starting rotation. 
BurkeMemorialGolfCourse-On 
·presentationofaUniversityidentifica-that will be located on the east endof tioncard.Closingtimeis 11 p.m. daily. theAthleticandConvocationCenter. StepanCenter-StepanCenterand Thepool, when completed, will)lave 
itsadjoiningfieldsandoutdoorbasket­ballcourtsarelocatedinthenortheast corner of the campus. Outside the domed Center, one can play basket­ball, football, soccer, rugby and softball.The basketballcourts,which can be turned into an ice rink in the winter, are outfitted with lights that allowstudents to play basketball late into the night. Within Stepan Center are basketball and volleyball courts, openfor recreationalandleagueplay. Many of the interhall sports are con­ducted in this area of the campus. 
Rolfs Natatorium (under con­strucdon) -Construction is well underway on the Olympic-size pool 
the capability of being divided into three sections. For instance, this wouldallowdivinginoneend,recrea· · tional swimming in the middle, and waterpolointheotherend.Therewill 
, bethreeone-meterdivingboardsand two three-meter boards, a'i well as an observation deck. 
AngeJaAthledcFacllity-Located north of the Saint Mary's library, An­gelaincludes basketball andvolleyball courts, as well as some fitness equip­ment.Therearealsotenniscourtsand basketballcourtsoutsidethebuilding. Information about use ofthe AAF can be found by calling 284-5549. 
ATTENTION SPORTSWRITERS 
There will be an important meeting for all returning sportswriters and copy editors on Monday at 6:30p.m: in the Observer office. If you cannot attend,· contact Mike Sullivan by Monday afternoon. 
There will be a meeting for all freshmen interested in 
writing sports on Thursday in LaFortune. The exact 
time and place will be announced next week. 

1. Ray Nitschke 2. Bert Jones 
3. L.C. Greenwood 4. Frank Deford 5. Dick Williams 
6. Buck Buchanan 7. Jim Honochick 8. Boog Powell 
9. BenDavidson 10. Grits Gresham 11. Rodney Dangerfield 
12. Red Auerbach 13. Tommy Heinsohn 14. John Madden 
15. Marv Throneberry 16. Bob Uecker 17. Steve Mizerak 
18. Bubba Smith 19. Dick Butkus 20. Jim Shoulders 
21. Corky Carroll 22. Lee Meredith 23. Mickey Spillane 
24. Billy Martin 25. "Boom Boom" Geoffrion 
EVERYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED IN ABEER. AND LESS. © 1984 Miller Brewing Co .. Milwaukee, WI 
T0 day_.______ p_a_g_e_1~5
s_a_tu_rd_a_y_,_A_u_gu_s_t_z_s_,-19_8_4__ 
Campus 
Notre Dame 
•7:30p.m.-WelcomeandlntroductoryCeremony for freshmen and their parents, Athletic and Convocation Center. 
•9p.m.-Freshmenmeetwithhall
rectorsandstatfin their assigned halls. 

•9 
p.m. -Parent Orientation, Athletic and Convocation Center. 


Sunday, Aug. 26 
•8:30 
a.m. -Introduction to Academic Program, Athletic and Convocation Center. 

•9:30a.m.-General
GuidanceSessionsforFreshmen Athletic and Convocation Center. ' 

•ll
a.m.-WelcomeMass,AthleticandConvocation Center. 

•12:45 
p.m. -Introduction to Student Activities, Athletic and Convocation Center. ~ 2p.m.-ForeignStudyProgramMeeting,Athletlcand Convocation Center. 

•2 
p.m. -Presentation of ROTC Information to freshmen and their parents, Athletic and Convocation Center. 

•
7p.m.-SpecialOrientationforFreshmen Women, Memorial Library Auditorium. 

•9p.m.-MonteCarloGamesand
Dance,Concourse and Monogram Room ofAthletic and Convocation Center. 


1 
Monday, Aug. 27 
•8:30 
a.m. -Registration, Stepan Center. 

•9 
p.m. -Open Air Concert, North Quad. 


Saint Mary's 
•2 
p.m. -Freshmen Pre-Registration Briefing. 

•4:30 
p.m. ~Student Affairs Department Directors Panel. 

•6:30p.m.-BarbecueandSquare
Dance, DiningHall Green. 


Sunday, Aug. 26 
•9:30 
a.m. -Liturgy, Angela Athletic Facility. 

•It 
a.m. -Freshman Pre-Registration Briefing. 

•12: 
15 a.m. -Freshman Pre-Registration Briefing. 

•l
:30 p.m. -College Open House, Angela Athletic Facility. 

•8 
p.m. -Pre-Casino Night Party, Haggar College Center. 


Bloom Connty 

1/0W, 71/E LA5TTHIN(, OIJR 
~C!>A5U' PRE51~1/T7AL 
CAN/liAATE NEEI'fJ IS A800K Pti&ISHE/l WHICH 6RIJTAU.Y EXP05135 HIS SORPI/?, PARK 
Sf~, 

The Far Side 

Nature scenes we rarely see 
rHI/5, r POIJ'r a~cr ANY Of YOIJ 10 TALK To,.. -IJH,.,7D.. , HOI.P rr. 
-WHERE'S OPUS ~ 


Berke Breathed 
:·. 
YES, 7HAT'5 R/6/ff,

Gary larson 
"Ohhhhhhh ... Look at that, Schuller ... Dogs are so cute when they try to comprehend 
quantum mecftan1cs." 
I --------------------------------, ==·l~he Obset:Ver--I Madke checks payable to: I
The Observer ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· an mailto: P.O.BoxQ 1 
.. Notre Dame, IN 46556 1 I 
Enclosed is $30 for one academic year.
SUBSCRIBE TODAY! D 
Published Monday through Friday during the academic year, The Observer Enclosed is $20 for one semester.
D 
is a vital source of information on peo­ple and events in the Notre Dame-Saint 
Name ________________________________
Mary's community. Join the growing number of readers 
Address____________________
who have found The Observer an in­dispensable link to the two campuses. 
City________ State ____ Zip ___
Complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home for $20 a semester or $30 for 
0 Renewal 0 N.D. Graduate Class of 
I 
a full year. 
I 
..............................................................................,
.................................................................. 
• ALL-TRONICS • 
• 
• •
• •• WELCOME BACK STEREO SALE • •• 
• LARGEST SELECTION OF HOME STEREO COMPONENTS, 
• 
• CAR STEREOS, PORTABLE JAM BOXES, AND WALKMAN • • TYPE PERSONAL STEREOS • 
• 6502 N. Grape Rd., University Center, Mishawaka • 
• East side of University Park Mall • 
•..............................................•...............................•, 

-·---­
Saturday, August 25, 1984 -page 16
S~orts 
Freshmen look to make mark in fall practice 

By TIIERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
For 17 Notre Dame freshmen, the summer vacation ended more than two weeks ago when they checked ·into their temporary residences. in Flanner Hall. Since then, thefreshmen footballplayershavebeenlearningthe ways of Coach Gerry Faust and his assistants. 
Thepracticefields behind theACC are nowall toofamiliar to them. From thedayoftheirarrival,therehavebeen many meetings and two-a-day practicestokeepthenewestmembers oftheIrish football teambusy. Forthe first weeks under the Golden Dome the learning process for them will occuronthefootball field, as wellas in the classroom. 
Faust and the other coaches are pleased-with what they see in their fourth consecutive "harvest" ofhigh schoolfootballtalentforNotreDame. Althoughmuchoftheworkatfirstwas purelyinstructional, the Irish mentor noted the progress of the freshmen. 
"We'rereallynotdisappointedwith 
any of the freshmen," Faust says. "In 
fact, some of them have shown that 
they will be able to contribute to our 
program-bothnowandinthefuture." 
One ofthe more impressive fresh­
men on the practice field thus far has 
been Frank Starns. Starns, a running 
back from Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, 
seems quite at home in the fullback 
position and has been running some 
plays with the second offensive unit. 
Faust says Starns is "looking pretty 
good," which is what many people 
anticipated after Starns was named to 
many prep all-America lists and cho­
sen as one of the top 100 incoming 
freshmen bybothThe Sporting News 
and Football News. 
Faces in the athletic department 
Rev.EdmundPJoyce,C.S.C.-A 1937 Notre Damegraduate, Fr.Joyce was named executive vice president ofthe University in 1952, three years afterhisordination.Aschairmanofthe faculty board in control of athletics, Joyce has always maintained, "First thingscomefirst,andthefirstthingfor us is academics. I tell every squad of athletesthatwhenthestudentsreturn to campuseachfall." Inhis 32 years at Notre Dame, Joyce has watched as NotreDamehashadoneofthenation's most successful records in intercol­legiateathletics,whileatthesametime maintainingoneofhighestgraduation rates among its athletes. 

Fr. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C. 
GeneCorrlgan-Sincesucceeding the legendary Moose Krause as athleticdirectorin 1981, Corriganhas made his presence felt, both at Notre Dame and on the national level. In addition to being a member of the NCAA Division I basketball commit­tee, Corrigan has most recently been instrumental in the dealings of the College Football Asso~iation ( CF A) withboththeNCAAandthetelevision networks. Corriganwasadrivingforce in the organization and planning of Notre Dame's first-ever athletic endowment fund, designed to 

Gene Corrigan 
increase opportunities for Notre Dame students at all levels of competition. He is also credited with the introduction of two new varsity sports -lacrosse and women's swimming -in his first full year as athletic director. Before coming to NotreDame, Corrigan servedfor nine years as director ofathleticprograms at the University of Virginia. 
Brian Boulac -A former Notre Dame tight end, this 1963 University graduatewasnamedassistantathletic directorlastyearfollowing13seasons on the Irish football coaching staff. During that time, Boulac was recruitingcoordinatorforsevenyears aswellasanadministrativeassistantto Dan Devine for two years, in addition to coaching the offensive and defensive lines, receivers and specialty teams over that span. Presently,Boulac'sjobistoofferdirect assistance to Athletic Director Gene Corrigan in a wide variety of areas. 
JosephO'Brien-A1949graduate Notre Dame, O'Brien is in his second year as associate business manager after a seven-year stint as an assistant director. He also continuestomanage the department's finances as athletic business manager. In 1955, O'Brien was named director of personnel functions at South Bend's second­largestemployer-NotreDame.Hehas been here ever since, joining the athletic staff in 1976. He served as president of the College Athletic Business Managers Association in 1983 and was named business manager of the year in 1983 by CABMA. 

Joe O'Brien 
Dr. Tom Kelly-As director of non-varsity athletics, Kelly oversees an office that provides 19 intramural and 12 club sports, in addition to 30 recreational programs for both staff and students. Kelly, who also was namedan assistant athleticdirectorin 1983, received his masters degree in physical education from Penn State and his masters and Ph. D in Educational Administration from Notre Dam~. He has previously been NVA's assistant director for 11 years (until1979),and was varsity baseball coach from 1976 through the 1980 season. 
Mike Bobinski -Bobinski is the newcomertotheathleticdepartment, having been named ticket manager and assistant business manager this pastspring. He succeedsSteve Orsini who moved into the Dallas Cowboys 
see FACES, page 14 
Starns, at 6-4, 225'pounds, totalled nearly2,400yardsrushingandscored 38touchdownsinhisjuniorandsenior years in high school, in addition to being a standout at the linebacker position. 
"The last two weeks have been pretty intense," says Starns. "We've been doing a lot ofhitting, and it's all work when you're mit on the field. 
"The upperclassmen have been pretty good to us freshmen. We are doingalotoflearning,butI'm taking it one step at a time." 
Terry Andrysiak, a 6-1, 175-pound quarterback from Allen Park, Mich., also has been "progressing well," according to Faust, and he has seen additional action at the flanker posi­tion.Andrysiakisoneoffourfreshman quarterbacksonthelrishrosterandhe also was named toThe Sporting News listofthetop 1 OOfreshmanprospects. 
Andrysiak completed 95 of 153 passes for 1,859 yards as a senior (an average of just und~r 20 yards per completion), and had only three interceptions while throwing for 21 touchdowns-allofwhichwasenough forhimtoberatedthetopquarterback in the state of Michigan last year. 
Also vying for recognition at quar­terback are Tom Byrne and Duke St. Pierre. The freshmen may turn out to playavitalrbleatthispositionbecause only two experienced quarterbacks return. 
Byrne, a strong-armed 6-5, 216 pounds, definitely has the physical 
Tim Brown, a native ofDallas, Tex., hasbeenworkingwell at thesplitend position. The 6-0, 1 70-pound Brown was a multi-purpose player in high school, playing quarterback, wingbackandfreesafety,inadditionto wide receiver. 
Brownalso may beable toassist the Irish in puntandkickoffreturns. Ofhis 2 5 career touchdowns, eight ofthem were scored on runbacks ofpunts or kickoffs. 
Reggie Ward may be part of the reason why Faust is saying that this year'ssquadisthefastesthehashadyet. The5-II,175-poundspeedsterboasts times of 4.45 seconds in the 40-yard dash and 9.8 seconds in the 1 00-yard dash. 
Adding Ward's speed to the receiv­ing corps may allow Notre Dame to experimentwithdeeperpasspatterns than in thepast. Ward hails from-Long Beach Poly High School, the same school that produced two fine pro receivers-TonyHillandGeneWash­ington. 
Oneofthepointsofemphasisforthe 1984seasonwillbethesecondary,and Brandy W ellsrepresentsthefreshman class well at that position. Wells was named to the first-team on the USA Today prep all-star squad in the defensive backfield, and has been playingonthe second team at thefree safety position. 
Wells, a 6-0, 188-pounder from 
toolsneededtodowellatthisposition, Montclair, N.J., is also quick. He won but needs some time to get familiar theNewJerseystatechampionshipin with the new system. the 100-meter dash and was on the 
The other quarterback who has nationally-ranked indoor mile relay beenperformingwellinpracticeisSt. team that claimed the blue ribbon at Pierre.At 6-2, 195pounds,St. Pierreis the 1984VitalisOlympic Invitational. knownforhisrunningability,aswellas Faust is anticipating getting his passing. fourth seasonunderway and is happy 
CedricFigeroisoneofthefreshmen withwhathehasseensofar. "Thekids who has been looking good on arepickingupthingsprettynicelyand defense. The 6-3, 235-pound working hard." linebacker was named on the prep The freshmen and the upperclas­all-America teams of Parade, smenwillsoonhaveachancetoshow Adidas/Scbolastic Coach, and USA what they have learned in "class" by Today after leading his Lafayette, La., performing well on the football field. high school in tackles during his last "We'll gauge our performances by twoyearswithacombinednumberof what's on the scoreboard," Faust 
255. professes. 
Petrovic, Buchanan not to play for Irish 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Assistant Sports Editor 
While U.S. athletes may have left the Olympics earlier this month with many of the medals that were awarded, Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps came away from Los Angeles without the one prize he was looking to bring back to South Bend. 
Yugoslavian star Drazen Petrovic announced during the Games that he does not plan to honor the letter-of-intent signed last Novem­ber to play basketball for the Irish -at least not this year. Instead the 6-4 Petrovic, who led his Yugoslavian squad to a bronze medal, will suit up for Cibona, division champions in his native land and a team which will be playing in the European club championships from November to April. 
Phelps, in Los Angeles to do analysis for ABC-TV's coverage of 
men's basketball, did not have a whole lot to say on the situation. 
"The kid was under a lot of pressure to stay home," commented 
Phelps. "He may be here next year, but we just don't know." 
One other player Phelps won't have on his team this year is 6-2 guard Joe Buchanan, who has decided to transfer to another school after two injury-filled seasons under the Golden Dome. 
A Seattle, Wash., native, Buchanan went through a switch froin shooting guard to point guard during his sophomore campaign. He also was confined to the bench off-and-on during the second half of last season with recurring tendinitis in his knees. 
Of Buchanan's decision, Phelps would only say, "Jo Jo's a player who's been injured a lot the last couple of years and who is frustrated." 
The battle for_ the point guard position on the 1984-85 Irish will now come down to senior Dan Duff, who is coming off academic probation, and freshman Dave Rivers. 
Buchanan, who averaged 3.1 points while seeing 19.7 minutes of action per game last season, reportedly is considering attending UCLA, Cal-Irvine, or Nevada-Las Vegas, but is said to be leaning toward playing for the Bruins. 
Despite the loss of both Petrovic and Buchaoln, the Irish still are expected to be a pre-season Top 20 selection: 







