Irish Extra -page 7 

Videos ain1 to entice young GOP voters 

By ANDRE THEISEN Hesburgh said he completely sup­News Staff ported the alcohol policy. When By DIANE SCHROEDER 
asked if he foresaw further restric­Head Football Coach Gerry Faust tions, he said the policy would get
News Staff 

can relax. tougher only if the current policy 
In a special effort to communicate Ifthe alcohol policy doesn't work, didn't work. Hesburgh reminded the with younger voters, the Republican it will get tougher. audience it was he who had first campaign for Indiana's governorship And coed dormitories have no allowed alcohol on campus and said b2s produced America's first politi­place at Notre Dame. NO is a place where students can cal "music video." Republican All three statements are according learn responsible drinking. Robert Orr's video, which first aired to Father Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­Hesburgh admitted liability was Oct. 5, is aimed at 18-24 year olds. versity president, who spoke at a part of the reason for the formation 
The two-minute video is receiv­question-and-answer session at the of the alcohol policy, but declared 
ing air time on MTV as well as on Library Auditorium la.o;t night. the unacceptability of public comercial television programs When asked whether the football drunkenness was the primary reason where viewer demographicS show a team's performance called for action for the formation ofthe policy. concentration of younger voters. on his part. Hesburgh stated that NO Hesburgh declared there will 
The video features Gov. Orr with was a place of integrity and that he never be coed dorms at NO as long recording artist Henry Lee Summer. would not dishonor Faust's contract. as he is president. In defense of this 
The title song from Summer's new "Five-year contracts are standard for he cited the need for privacy for album, "Stay with Me," is the music new coaches," Hesburgh said, "and both men and women, the ample op­soundtrack for the video. coaches deserve that. period to es­portunities for interaction already 
Commenting on the video, Orr tablish themselves." available and the fact other univer­said, "This video is a unique effort to Heshurgh is more concerned sities are returning to unisex dorms. 
reach young voters with our central about the student body's reaction to Other topics discussed included message -that the real issue of this the team's performance. "I think it's the male-female ratio at Notre campaign is Indiana's future, and bush when NO students boo their Dame, the renovation of LaFortune 
that the Orr-Mutz team is the most own team," he said, in response to Student Center and the student qualified, most experienced. and the students' negative reaction after body's ability to he involved in best prepared to lead Indiana into ~:;t. ~ last Saturday's loss to Air Force. world issues. 
·rhc U~rvcr/Vic Guarino
that future." "That's not what NO is about. Hesburgh, when asked whether
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, supported Gerry•
The governor went said although They're our team and they deserve NO would ever reach an equal male­
Faust, the alcohol polic_y and single-sex dorms in a question and
the polls show that young voters are our support ," he said, adding, "I've female ratio, emphasized the Saint
answer session last night in the Library• Auditorium. For more 
seen much worse teams that weren't 
see VIDEO, page 4 details, see the story at riKht. 
see HESBURGH, page 5

booed." 
Pre-meds serve as patient/family liasons in area hospital 
By MARK DILLON nurse of the Elkhart General Hospi­"First they keep a patient company staff. They gain hands-on experience ings on the cultural aspects of News Staff tal Emergency Department. She who would otherwise be left unat­right in the thick of the emergency medicine and are required to hand thought a link was needed between tended. Second, they keep relatives process." in a report of their experiences at 
Pre-med students at Notre Dame patients, staffand families. informed ofwhere the patient is, the The students have become such the end ofthe year. are involved in a program in which Many times in the emergency patients' status, etc. Third, they act integral members of the staff, said The: classes focuses on values and they become part of the emergency room setting both patients and their as a communication link between Press, that when the students left for attitudes patients and staff members staff at Elkhart General Hospital by families are hysterical. They cannot the patient in the treatment room the summer, the emergency room bring into the emergency room set· serving as patient/family liasons in understand the waiting, the lack of and the family in the waiting room. became less efficient and therefore ting. Press cited prejudices based on the emergency room. news, or the treatment they or their Finally, the pre-med students keep hired two students as full-time ethnic background or socio­
The program involves students loved ones are experiencing. It is an eye on the patient to make sure liasons for the summer. economic position as examples. who volunteer four hours a week at these problems which the student as there is no unattended crisis," he The program, which last year was Press said his course tries to deal the hospital. Professor of Anthropol­a patient/family liason attempts to said. strictly volunteer, has become a with the fact that "medicine is not ogy Dr.Irwin Press initiated the pro­solve. Press said,"The liao;ons arc not credited course involving 16 stu­just a scientific endeavor hut has to gram last September in response to a The liasons have four basic re­glorified candy stripers. They are in­dents and meeting every other do with the cultural backgrounds of suggestion of Dixie Smith, head sponsibilities according to Press. tegral members of the emergency week. Students are assigned read-those who manage it." 


Tutu greeted by joyous crowds ofcountrymen 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -Bishop Desmond Tutu, telling a crowd of jubliant supporters that "we have done well, all of us," returned to his troubled homeland yesterday as winner of the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize. 
"God is saying to us, He is on our side," the black Anglican clergyman declared to more than 200 people who greeted him as he emerged ·from customs at Jan Smuts airport. He was accompa­nkd by his wife, Leah, and daughters Naomi and Mpho. 
Supporters held up placard" saying: '"apartheid: goodbye to You," and "Tutu: freedom a Reality." The crowd sang "Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrica," (God Bless Africa), the unofficial black na­tional anthem. 

Tutu, S3, a leader in the struggle for equal rights for South Africa's 22 million blacks, joined in the singing and danced a little as he worked his way through the crowd. 
Tutu embraced the Rev. Allan Boesak, a mixed-race minister of the Dutch Reformed Church who, along with Tutu, is one of the m_9st prominent clerics in the campaign against the white­dominated government's system of racial separation, known as apartheid. 
Boesak said Tutu's Nobel prize is "a tremendous boost for us at a time when the South African gov-
see TUTU, page 4 



da_v. A crowd ofover 250 greeted the Bishop atjan SmutsAirport. See the story at leftfor more details. 
·. 
The Observer Friday, October 19, 1984-page 2 

The Palestine Liberation Organization's arms industry-with factories in operation throughout the Moslem world­recently developed the PLO's own fighter plane, Yasser Arafat was quoted yesterday as saying. The independent Tunisian weekly Er Rai quoted the PLO chairman as saying Palestinian scientists and en­gineers were in charge ofthe factories "which have just put the final touches to a combat plane." He gave no details ofthe aircraft and did not indicate when it would go into production, the paper said. The guerrilla movement has never had combat planes ofits own. -AP 
A man shot and killedhis six children. then killed himself, Evansville, Ind. police said yesterday. The children ranged in age from 3 to IS years old. Police Chiefl{ay Hamner identified the man as James.Alan Day. Hamner said Day's wife, Candace, returned home from her overnight shift at the Evansville Post Office this mor­ning and found her husband dead in a chair with a gun in his hand. She then discovered the children in their beds. Hamner said there was no immediate indication ofmotive in the killings on the city's far southeast side. -AP 
Budweiser beer can't stop a local florists association from using the slogan "This Bud's for You," a federal judge in Cleveland has ruled. "If there is anybody in this country that can use the word bud in connection with their product line without interfer­ing with Anheuser Busch, it's got to be florists," Christopher B. Fagan, attorney for the Florists Association ofGreater Cleveland, said Wednesday. "We're happy the court agreed with us on that point." Anheuser Busch Cos. Inc. had asked for a preliminary injunction, but 
U.S. district judge Ann Aldrich denied the request last Friday. -AP. 
The Air Force sent investigators Wednesday to the remote Monument Valley where an unarmed B-52 bomber crashed during a low-level training flight, killing one crewman, injuring five and leaving one missing. The bomber, flying from Fairchild Air Force Base at Spokane, Wash., crashed about 9 p.m. Tuesday on the sprawl­ing Navajo Indian reservation in northeastern Arizona near the Utah border, about 13 miles northeast of Kayenta. The cause ofthe crash was not immediately known. Seventy B-52s have crashed on non­combat missions. -AP 
A drug thatapparently mimics the action ofa brain chemi­cal shows promise as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease, a progres­sive form of senility that affiicts about 2 million Americans, researchers at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in New Hampshire say. Four victims of the disease showed improved ability to speak and care for themselves after treatment with the drug, called ·bethanecol chloride, according to a report in the current issue ofthejournal of Neurosurgery. -AP 
A former ambassador who was involved in a heated Vietnam War dispute over how to count enemy troops tes­tified Wednesday in New York he did not "conspire" to suppress truthful intelligence reports. Robert Komer, the second witness for Gen. William Westmoreland in his S120 million libel suit against CBS, also said he never was told to put "ceilings" on estimates of enemy troop strength. Westmoreland's suit charges a jan. 23, 1982 documentary, "The Uncounted Enemy: a vietnam Deception," falsely accused the general ofa plot to undercount enemy troops in order to convince Presidc:nt Lyndon B. Johnson the war was being won. -AP 
A panel ofprominent educators, bidding 
to turn the reform spotlight from America's high schools to its col­leges, is warning that higher education is suffering serious problems, from underpaid faculty to deteriorating buildings to students aban­doning the liberal arts. The panel, in a report prepared for Education Secretary T.H. Bell and his National Institute of Education in Wash­ington, called for sweeping changes in campus life, including more faculty attention for freshmen and sophomores, fewer part-time pro­

fessors and less emphasis on vocational courses. -AP 
Weather 

Windy and cooler today with a -I 40 percent chance of showers this morning. The high will be around 65. Mostly clear and cool tonight, with a low around 40. Partly sunny and cool tomorrow,with a high around around 
60. -AP 

The Observer-
The O~rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purcha..o;ed for 130 per year ( 120 per se­mester) by writing The O~rver, P.O. Box Q, Noue Dame, Indiana 46556. 
lbe Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
' I I 
-::0= 
Today's i~~ue was produced by: 

Design Editor... ....... . .. Chris Bowler Design Assistant ...... .... \Iaureen Murphy Layout Staff ........................... )enctifer Hom Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck 
Dave Grote Neu-s Editor............................... Mark Potter Copy Editor.............................. )ane Kravcik Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Sports SJH!dal Layout.. ........ Chris Bowler Viewpoint Copy Editor......... Paul Cimino Viewpoint Layout................John Mennell ND Day Editor........................ Aimee Storin SMC Day Editor ........................Shirley Ore Ad Design ......................... Suzanne LaCroix Pbotngrapber ..................... Victor Guarino Typtst... ..................................... Kim Tyschen 
Alcoa, AT&T and the bookstore: A campus monopoly gone wrong 
"Curses to the Bloody Monopoly!" 
When aimed at Notre Dame's bookstore, it is an un derstandable and just plea, and one that is probably no1 vindictive. Plain and simple, the bookstore prices art· high; some, according to a Student Government survey. are as much as 45 percent higher than the average drugstore. In response, the Student Senate has pro­posed a student-run "general store," a benign creature on the order of a newsstand which could nonethek~s display the banner of"Holy Competition." 
Students were asked last week if they liked the idea, and nearly nine in I 0 said they did. Most probably an­swered "yes" for the simple reason that low prices seem better than high. Americans are often asked in polls if low taxes are better than high, and most answer "yes" even though Walter Mondale and his cronies have argued convincingly that lower taxes are not always a good thing. 
Thus, if the senate's case for such a store relies solely on student impressions and 
Bob Vonderheide 
Ec'itor-in-Chief 
Inside Frid 

that pure competition is economically more efficient. 
One final point: Markets controlled by monopolies are also characterized by substantial barriers to entry. The University has argued, though not in these terms, that in the case ofthe student store, the barriers to entry are "natural." It simply would be too expensive to open and operate the store. 
Baloney. The barriers against opening the student store are essentially legal, the same kind of barriers that ensures the U.S. Post Office's monopoly on delivery of 
first class mail. If there was 
drug-store comparisons, it no law protecting the Post won't be much ofa case at all Office, the monopoly would in front of University finan­certainly break down in the ciers who will raise eco­face of competition, and nomic considerations that postage prices would prob­haven't been addressed. ably drop. 
The bookstore is a case 
The same is true of the study on the economics of bookstore: the University's market power. What's presumed ban on direct 
needed is evidence that the competition is protecting a bookstore's use of such monopoly that really is ar­power makes it a monopoly tificial. There is nothing per se. Market power and "natural" about it. The Uni­monopoly are not synonyms ver~ity is simply fearful that (more than one firm in an in­the student store would be dustry can have market successful, which would 
power), and it is wrong for mean at least a partial the senate to assume as goodbye to profits. much. 
Notre Dame's ban on 

A monopoly is any market structure in which there exists only one seller ofa prod­uct that has no close substitutes. Should the Notre Dame market for day-to-day products be defined within juniper, Angela, Douglas and U.S. 31? Are students with­out cars truly captive customers of the bookstore? The Student Senate has only assumed, not proven, that this is so. 
And the distinction is important. Even monopolies cannot set prices without considering the demand of the market. But profit-maximizing monopolies (if truly monopolies) always produce less and charge more than firms in a competitive market. Thus, if the bookstore is proven as a monopoly, it becomes much easier for the student senate to show that its prices are not competi­tive. 
Competition would mean that the demand curve facing the bookstore is not also the demand curve ofthe market, and such a development would be a step in the direction of pure competition. And economists agree 
direct competition has not been challenged, and you can't change a bad regulation until you break it. The challenge now is on the Student Senate not to settle for a store that merely sells generic or low-quality products. The student store should carry brand-name items, matching the bookstore product for product. 
The University can argue as much as it wants that the store won't make it, but nothing changes the fact that the students are right on this one. The only reason the University would deny a directly competitive student store is to keep the profits of the bookstore protected · profits of which we know neither the magnitude nor the use. 
And on this campus, that's not supposed to be a very good reason at all. 

------------------~------~-------------------------­
The Observer Friday, October 19, 1984 -page 3 
' 

Beatrice executive Handley tells of advertising campaign 
By RAY MULERA aimed at increasing the consumer's pealing to a different group of News Staff awareness of the Beatrice Compan­people. This, according to Handley, ies. gives the advertisements "rifle shot 
Beatrice's recent multi-million The advertisements feature accurracy" at the targeted group. dollar ad campaign is the beginning Beatrice's better-known subsidiary of an "overall metamorphosis" products while stating "You've Handley said this campaign is a which will give the company a status Known Us All Along." Handley "unique, specific, conclusion to similar to Proctor and Gamble, said describes this as an attempt to Beatrice's communication needs" Harold). Handley, senior vice presi­"borrow equity" from the already and would not work as well for dent and director of marketing for established products. other, better known companies. The Beatrice Companies. Handley made The advertisements have allowed advertisements are specialized to his remarks yesterday in a lecture at Beatrice to "leapfrog over" the other identify Beatrice with the better Saint Mary's Haggar College Center. companies in terms of recognition known products instead ofthe usual 
according to Handley. He believes attempt to identify the product with 
Beatrice is the nations largest food the success of the campaign from the better known company. company and the second largest in their ability to appeal to a wide The lecture was sponsered by the the world with annual sales of over range of people. Each commercial Saint Mary's chapter ofthe American S13 billion. The new campaign is features several products, each ap-Marketing Association. 
Bauer supports state lottery to help fund Indiana educational system
Beatrice Companies Senior Vice President and Director ofMar­keting HaroldHandley speaks aboutBeatrice's "You've Known Us By CHRIS BEDNARSKI news conference from Democratic prefer to spend their money in All Along" ad campaign. The lecture was held yesterday in Saint News Staff Headquarters in South Bend. He said Indiana. , 
Bauer pointed to a study done by
Mary's Haggar College Center and was sponsered by the Saint he is "dedicated to education that is Mary's American Marketing Association. Democratic candidate for the sorely in need offunds." Larry DeBaer, economics professor 
Indiana House Burnett "Burnie" at Ball State Univerisity, that es· Bauer said yesterday that if elected Bauer also said, "Indiana ranks timates a lottery would generate he will suppport legislation for an 47th among the states in SAT scores, 108.2 million dollars, netting 42.4 Indiana state lottery providing the 41st in expenditure for education million for the state. Prize money proceeds go to education. per capita income, and 39th in ex­and promotion would take 47 per­
Bauer, a candidate for the 8th penditures per pupil." The state uni­cent of the revenue and the rest left Indiana House District, spoke at a versities are losing some of their would go to help Indiana education. 
states. for lottery tickets would past."
I AVAILABLE I 
Help Prevent Birth Defects
5

: i: 
""Support the 
'li'f:::tl!sb~t.QI~
IThe Notre Da01e Ala01nl Association, in cooperation with thel 
ICareer and Placement Services Office, will again sponsor the I 
: . 
lsummer job placement program in 1985. i . ­
I z
• 

The Irish Gardens 
your Screw your lloomma'e Beadquanera lctub City, obtain an application from the Alumni Office, 201 Admin. 
luYOU are interested in applying for summer jobs in an alumni ii 
~~~ ·r; ••yonc~pusand
i .d ~ l_ save $88by le,tlng us
1Btdg. 1 • 
· '•ke care of your
I 

I 
nowerneecll 
DialM·U-M-8 (6867)

Applications must be completed and returned by November 30 
to place an order ~············..············....···...··············..······•·...····.................................................................................. :• . 
Loca,ed eff 'he Razz 


BANKING••• ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! Banking Hours· Monday through Friday Mon. thru Thurs.· 11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ source Join Michiana's 1st Team ..:aank for unsurpa~sed banking service! Member F.D.I.C.  in the buem~t of Lal'onune Hours: 12:80-S:SO A· DRAMATIC NEW CONCEP IN SUN TANNING! Preserve your tan with our NEW tanning bed TAN-HAWI.&N sun tannrg solen 2n-1026 J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy VISA A MASTERCARD  


THOUSANDS OF USED BOOKS ON All SUBJECTS -WE BUY USED BOOKS· 
HOURS: 

Wed., Sat. • Sun. 9 a.m. •7 p.m. or by appointment 
ISIS NM-B•dl•-• 1W. N11ee 683-2888
";"...........................................................................................................................................I
I SUMMER JOB APPLICATIONS i 
best professors to other states be­Bauer said his race is important to cause Indiana can't afford to pay getting a lottery because his district them enough, he said. He added the is considered important by the Dem­state needs a well-educated work ocratic party if they are to gain con­force to attract industry. trol of the Indiana House. In the House the Republican speaker, Bob Bauer has found many people are Daily, has killed every effort so far to now traveling to Michigan and Illi­bring a lottery bill to a vote, al­nois to buy lottery tickets on a regu­though he now says he will allow lar basis. He said, "The money is such a bill to come to the floor. going to the states around us and not Bauer said, "The best bet is to put in to Indiana."He also said has found candidates in favor ofit (the lottery) those people traveling to other and who have supported it in the 
~-----------------------··--·-------·-··------~~-·-·-~ ..... ---....... -... ··---------------------··-· 
The Observer Friday, October 19, 1984 -page 4 
Debate won by Mondale say voters; most stick to Reagan 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-A majority of likely voters questioned in an NBC News poll released yesterday said Walter Mondale won his first debate with President Reagan, but the debate ­and the later vice presidential debate -seemed to have little effect on Reagan's commanding lead in the presidential race. 
The poll, conducted between Oct. 14 and Oct. 16 among 1,556 likely voters nationwide, showed Reagan and Vice President George Bush ahead of Walter Mondale and Geraldine Ferraro by a margin of 60 percent to 35 percent, a slight change from their respective 62 per­cent and 32 percent figures in an early September survey. 

The margin of error in the latest poll was plus or minus 3 percent. 
About one-fifth of those ques­tioned said they had not watched or heard the presidential debate, but Mondale was declared the winner by a 3-to-1 margin by those who watched or listened. 
Almost one-half of the likely voters -4 7 percent -said they had a more favorable opinion of Mondale after the debate, and.only 17 percent said they had a more favorable opinion of the president. 
Almost one-third of the likely voters questioned said they did not watch or hear the debate between Bush and Ferraro, but those who did thought Bush did a better job by a margin of 35 percent to 20 percent. Both candidates emerged with more favorable ratings. 
NBC said there was little move­ment to the Democratic ticket in the last five weeks, but the change that did occur came primarily from five groups -union members, Easterners, the elderly, Democrats and Jewish voters. 
Two-thirds of those polled said Reagan's age does not decrease his ability to handle the duties of the presidency. 
The poll found Ferraro's presence on the Democratic ticket represen­terd a net loss of votes to the Democrats. Almost one-third of the likely voters said they were less likely to vote for the Democrats be­cause she is the vice presidential nominee, and only 19 percent said they are more likely to vote Demo­cratic. About half said her presence makes no difference. 
Iran breaks quiet in Iran-Iraq war by launching major land offensive 
Assodated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Iran said yester­day it had launched a major offen­sive at the center ofthe Iran-Iraq war front and killed hundreds of Iraqi troops. But Iraq said it had crushed the attack and killed more than a thousand Iranians. 
The new battles were reported after months of relative quiet in the four-year-old war. There was no in­dication the new fighting signalled the start of Iran's long promised "final offensive," which was widely expected at the southern end of the front during the summer. 
Both sides said the battles started Wednesday night along the border about 70 miles northeast of Bagh­dad, the Iraqi capital, and continued yesterday. Iran also reported that it had smashed an Iraqi attack in the south, near the Iranian city of Khor­ramshahr. 
Baghdad radio quoted an Iraqi military communique as saying the latest of the three Iranian assaults 
Tutu 
continuedfrom page 1 
ernment is beginning to think it 
could get away with bogus 
reforms. We have been given a 
kind of recognition that we 
needed most at this time." 
Earlier this year South Africa 
adopted a new constitution 
giving limited representation in 
Parliament to Indians and people 
of mixed-race. However, South 
Africa's blacks are considered 
citizens of 10 tribal homelands 
and are denied citizenship rights. 
Video 
continuedfrom page 1 
more likely to vote Orr and Mutz, and for Republicans in general, he won't take their support for granted. He plans to aggressively seek their support and deliver on those issues which are most important to them ­economic growth, education, and environmental protection 
A statement issued by a spokesperson for the Democrats stated that Democratic candidate for governor Wayne Townsend has no plans for a campaign video in the future. Townsend believes the video is an inappropriate use of the tax­payer's money. 
Music videos are a relatively new and fast growing segment of the tele­vision entertainment market, which have gained popularity with the ex­pansion of the MTV network available on cable systems through­out the country. 

along a 12-mile front was "repulsed kilometers" of Iranian territory in and crushed" yesterday morning in the center of the front that had been the central Saif Saad area. under Iraqi occupation since the 
Iran's official Islamic Republic war started in 1980. Twenty Iraqi News Agency, monitored in Nicosia, tanks were destroyed and hundreds Cyprus, reported Iranian success of dead Iraqi troops had been left on both in the advance across the the battlefield. mountains of the central sector and Iraqi forces that attacked in the in repulsing the Iraqi attack in the south were "repelled by the heavy south. artillery tire of the Iranian forces, 
It said Iranian forces "advanced and the enemy was forced to and liberated dozens of square retreat," the news agency said. 
1111111111111111 Grand Opening 111111111111111 
N.D. T-SHIRT SHOP 
in the southeast corner ofLaFortune Basement 
Hours: Monday and Wednesday 3:00-5:00 Tuesday, Thursday, Friday 1:00 • 3:00 
Call239-5157 for more info. on ourrock bottom prices 
CJ,eck 

0/c OlJt
O/or. OlJr
Custom designed within one week 
s i'lfld .stock 
Group discounts s,~e'Sf 

$1.00 off any pizza. 
$1.00 

One coupon per pizza. 
Off 

Fast, Free Deliveryn• Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. 
... -.
.. " ' ................... ..
-


BEST IN PRIME RIB STEAKS, SEAFOOD 
Enjoy Our Relaxing Atmosphere 
CALL FOP RF<;;FRVATJOI\1~ 
233-4021 232-2494 602 S. WALNUT. SO. BEND 

THE EARLY •-, . BIRD... _.z;c- 
PREPARE FOR:  
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272·4135  

Interested in a Masters Degree in Accounting? Business Administration? Public Administration? 
Discover Rice University's Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Administration -A Representative will be on campus on: 
Tuesday, October 30, 1984 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CONTACT THE PLACEMENT OFFICE 
Please send an application and a brochure about Rice University's JONES GRADUATE SCHOOL to: 
NAME (please print) 
ADDRESS 
CITY STATE ZIP 
COLLEGE DEGREE DATE 
Rice University Jones Graduate School of Administration P.O. Box 1892 Houston, Texas 77251 (713) 527-4918 
Rice University is an equal opportunityI affirmative action institution 
. . -­

• " •· , --,, •• 4'
... .. .. . --.. .. .. .. 


~----------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------­
The Observer 

Friday, October 19, 1984 -page 5 

The Observer/Margie Ker•ten
Hang it up! 

Saint Mary's senior Liz Robinson works on her sculpture for Portfolio Week. During the week, art majors and minors will dis· play their workfor the review ofthe art department. The week will be held in Moreau, Hammes, and the Little Theatre, beginning 
Nov.4. 


jb~~~ti~ ~ 



NotreDameHeadquarters 


BONADARTES RETREAT 
1oo1V9ctriur 
G 

Chernenko's interview politically motivated, say Western diplomats 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -President Konstantin 
Chernenko's interview with the 
Washington Post was his first 
meeting with a Western journalist, 
and Western diplomats said Wed· 
nesday it appeared timed to influ· 
ence the U.S. presidential election. 
Diplomats, who spoke on condition they not be identified, were unanimous in saying the inter· view seemed designed to influence Sunday's debate on foreign policy is· sues between President Reagan and Democratic challenger Walter Mondale. 
Some also said they believe Chernenko hinted at positive changes in superpower relations. 
"You can be certain that they (the Soviets) thought exactly about when they would give the interview. You don't get such a thing by chance," one West European diplomat commented. 
The interview, which Washington 
1 Transients leave Oregon commune 
Associated Press largest single exodus from the religi­
ous commune. 
PORTLAND, Ore. -At least 150 The latest batch oftransients were. homeless people who had been among more than 1,000 who have bused into Oregon from across the decided to leave the commune-city nation by followers ofan Indian guru ofRajneeshpuram without money to were dropped off in downtown return to their cities of origin, Portland on Wednesday night, the crowding social service agencies in 

This Friday and Saturday at Nick 8r Kenny's Rootbeers so~ $1°0 Labatts Gin & Tonics 2 for 1 Free Hors d'oeuvres FREE Hot Dogs Saturday!  
noon-4 p.m. Mon thru Fri 25~ beer  

NUGENT'S 
~,.~ ancOJrHj~-81119 
Post correspondent Dusko Docter conducted on Tuesday, focused on disarmament and superpower rela· tions. Chernenko singled out four major arms control issues and asked the United States to try to reach agreement on at least one. 
The West European diplomat said the substance of the interview -as· king the United States to make a policy shift in order to get a response from the Soviets -differed little from Soviet statements of the past months. 
Yet, he said, the interview con­tained "a recognition ofthe need for dialogue" and was "more positive" than negative in tone. 
"I think it's quite important," the diplomat said. "Overall, I think it's the beginning point of a process which, as before, will be long and difficult. We just have to wait for the Soviets to shift their position a little." 
Other Western diplomats concen­trated on the timing ofthe interview 
and said it seemed aimed at putting certain issues on the agenda for Sun· day's televised debate between Reagan and Mondale. The debate is planned to focus on foreign policy. 
Although they saw it as an attempt to influence the presidential elec· tion, the diplomats said Chernenko's interview was being carefully studied for substance. 
The Soviet reaction to any sugges­tions the United States has made since Chernenko assumed the lead­ership post eight months ago has not led to major progress on disarma· ment. 
The United States made a new proposal on banning chemical weapons to the Geneva disarma­ment conference in April. In June, Reagan offered to discuss the non­use of military force at the Stock­holm disarmament conference. 
Neither suggestion drew a positive Soviet response. 
Portland, The Dalles and Madras. 
A spokeswoman for the Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh said the homeless had been taken to the Salvation Army's Harbor Light center in down· town Portland on Wednesday be· cause they wanted to leave Rajneeshpuram, and she denied they were being "dumped" because they were not registered to vote and were no longer ofany use in the up­coming election. 
"That's absolutely silly -com­pletely ridiculous," she said. 
In recent weeks, the commune has come under fire by foes of the Rajneeshees who say they fear the new arrivals could upset the elec­toral balance among the county's ap· proximately 12,000 registered voters. Rajneespuram's population has mushroomed as the community bused in about 2,300 homeless people from cities such as Washing­ton, D.C., New York, Los Angeles, Cincinnati and El Paso, Texas. 
Stephan fills new post 
Amy Stephan, a junior from Pi­qua, Ohio, majoring in electrical en~ineering and English, has been named project manager of 
The Observer. 

Stephan's immediate duties in­clude developing an editing and layout stylebook, conducting a survey of readers, and organizing the training ofcopy editors. 
Stephan has been working as an assistant news editor since January. She has also worked as a copy editor and a reporter. 
Hesburgh 
continuedfrom page 1 

Mary's community had to be consid­ered when discussing the male· female ratio. While he said more women can and will be admitted to ND in the future, Hesburgh stated that he would not want the combined ND-SMC male-female ratio to exceed equality. 
Saying he sympathized with those students who are eager to become directly involved in world prob· lems, he said the best thing to do is "to get the best education you can. Learn all you can to prepare yourself and then decide what you're going to do · you can make a difference in life." 

~i~~~_()__i_ll__t____~--~-------F-rid_~_,o_cto-be_r_19,_19-84~-p-ag-e6 
Take the time out and have a good break 
While watching one of the recent Notre Dame football games, this thought occurred to me: just how much life in the U.S. is sched­uled around the concept of time. Hardly a game where seconds do not count (every 

Jurgen Brauer reasoned culture 
single break in a football game used for a few quick commercials paid by the second); hardly a ND professor who, seeing that he still has two minutes left, will not start on a new topic. Executives find it time-saving to eat at a restaurant rather than to go shopping and to prepare a meal at home. The time thus saved is used to work more and to earn more money. 
When you work with the ND mainframe computer and want to know what time it is you type in (from READY mode) "time," and the computer responds not by saying "about 10 a.m." but rather by something like "9:53:47,.. When you have an appointment to see someone at 3 p.m. you better be there on time. We all know that joggers love their Walkman-why do your jogging and your lis­tening to music or language tapes at different times when you can do it at the same time? 
l 
ll Recently, I noted, someone had the brightest time-saving idea ofall: he took someLIFE back issues off the library shelves and deposited them in the men's restroom on 1Oth floor · why lose any time, why not continue your education while you are attending to some, say, other urgent business? And as I recently discovered to my dismay: when you are in graduate school there's no time to recuperate from sickness. The graduate school simply doesn't allow for people to get sick. 
In Europe things are a little more relaxed. There are exceptions, ofcourse: a former pro­fessor of mine was said to be fully capable of studying the newspaper's business section, watch a political program on 1V and to dis· cuss economic theory with his Ph.D. candi­dates all at the same time! Time is important in Europe, too. But, generally speaking, not as important as in the U.S. Professors would let their classes go five minutes early rather than commence with a new topic. Commercials are shown at set times rather than at any in· between opportunity. The general trend among workers is to work less for the same money rather than to work more for more money. 
I liked Africa best ofall -Southern Africa to be precise · where I spent three years living. There you generally would not want to schedule an appointment with someone: you would just go and see if the person you wanted to talk with is available or not. If he was there, the next two hours would be spent talking. Ifhe wasn't there you'd come back the next day, and the next, and the next, and so on. Or sometimes you would meet the person and he'd say "come back tomorrow," which you would (perhaps meeting him, perhaps not). If\ ·>u happened to meet a friend or a friend's fiiend at the marketplace or in the bus or just about anywhere else you'd start talking and keep going for as long as you wished. There simply wasn't any time constraint! Oh sure, there was always lots ofwork to be done, but somehow that didn't qualify as a con· straint on your time. If your brother got sick, you would leave your work for a day or two to go and visit him. 

If you read your newspaper regularly, you may have noticed that a number ofairline rep­resentatives recently got together to work out new takeoff and landing schedules for over­crowded airports. They talked about delays of an hour or two that they wanted to tidy up. In Africa you would talk aboutdays of delay and perhaps even using the word "delay" would be inappropriate. 
A woman, working in Sudan, once told me she was boarding a bus, scheduled to reach another village in eight hours. As it turned out, the bus took eight days. The Africans on the bus didn't seem to be worried. Trying to orga­nize community meetings was a probing ex­perience for the Western-minded. You would schedule something for next Saturday at 1 1 
a.m. and no one would show up. The follow­ing Saturday the same would happen. Then, more by accident than by design, you would be in the sanie area at anytime on any day and a huge crowd would turn up for a meeting, all eager to get started on a project you wanted to have implemented some two months ago. You want to visit a rural church on Sunday mor­ning at 10 and the worshippers would begin to arrive at 11:30. Why? Probably they just gave you a time because you wanted to have a time at which to come. But how could they be "on time" if they perhaps do not even have watches? 
I said before that I liked Africa best of all with respect to time. But I am not quite sure why this is so. I was never able to completely let go of my concept of time since, after all, I was there to help "develop" the area, and time is a very important thing in our notion of "development." But I did let go a little, and I certainly enjoyed it. Somehow life was more fun, more livable, more enjoyable when there wasn't anything I absolutely had to have done by such and such a time. 
See, in Africa you certainly could work as much as you wanted to, but you didn't have to. Here in the U.S. it appears that you almost have to. Why? Perhaps because your social status depends so much on how much you get done (in terms of material wealth) in the few years that make up your life. In Africa, social status came from other things · things like age, your family name, l)ow many kids you had, the length ofyour beard, and so on. 
I certainly do not want to suggest that one concept of time -the U.S. American, the European, the African · is superior to any other but I just as certainly wish that all ofyou here at Notre Dame community take some time out andhave a good break! 
]urgen Brauer is an economics graduate student and is a regular contributing View­point columnist. 
The future of Grenada remains an uncertainty 
Remember Afghanistan? It seems like yes­terday, but the Soviets pulled that one almost five years ago. Meanwhile a much more recent 
Santiago O'Donnell 

free-lance 
invasion is silently celebratingits first anniver­sary this month. 
Who cares about Grenada? Everything that had to be known was written during the days of the invasion: "U.S. vs. Cuba on Caribbean Island of Grenada." -Tbe Washington Post. "(Grenada was) a Soviet -Cuban colony being readied as a major military bastion ... we got there just in time."-Ronald Reagan. Even "U.S. battled Soviet troops in Grenada." · Tbe New York Post. The intervention was supported by the majority of the Grenadians and applauded by most Americans. So what? 
A year ago 7,400 Marines, Rangers and paratroopers backed by an aircraft carrier bat­tle group stormed this island of 30,000 in­habitants and defeated a few dozen "soldiers" who often lacked shoes and shirts, and used WWII weapons. During the invasion a children's hospital was "accidentally" bombed, killing at least 1 7 Grenadians. 
The administration decided to bar reporters from covering the first crucial days of the invasion. News organizations quietly printed handouts from the Pentagon, ignoring the questions raised by the unprecedented government censorship. With such coverage it is easy to understand why the American public sided with the bully that kicked sand into the face ofa 95-pound weakling. 
For the first time black Marines were put into a combat situation against black nationalists. The experiment was apparently successful. Black nations will never again be excluded from the Pentagon's invasion plans. 
Grenada's deposed New Jewel Movement was inspired by late reggae star Bob Marley no less than Karl Marx. Founded in 1973 by Maurice Bishop, the NJM was a mixture of Caribbean populism with the Black Power movement that was sweeping the U.S.A. at the time. Bishop and the NJM overthrew a 28-year old dictatorship headed by the eccentric Eric Gairy, who was best known for his secret police (the "Mongoose Gang"), and his obses­sion with UFO's. Under Gairy, Grenadians suf­fered from a 50 percent unemployment rate and a 40 percent dependency on imported food. The NJM coup caused Gairy to flee to San Diego, Ca., where he kept busy preparing a countercoup. Currently Gairy is back in Grenada. 

Maurice Bishop attempted a social revolu­tion based on tourism. He set up an office in Miami, Fla., and licensed an English firm to construct an international airport that could compete with other nearby Caribbean islands. In his two years in office Bishop reduced un· employment to 14 percent and food imports to 28 percent. For the first time in Grenada's history, milk, school lunches, and medical care were free. Emergency sanitary measures instituted by Bishop during the Dangue fever epidemic that swept the Caribbean helped Grenada escape its reach. 
But with the Grenadian government's con­tinued involvement with Cuba, with the emergency measures it installed, and with the supposed threat ofCuban MIGs being based in Grenada, the U.S. felt compelled to act. 
"The idea of U.S. Marines storming one of 
An education must last a lifetime 
As the days of summer draw to an end, hundreds of thousands of people across this nation, like you and me, head to institutions of 
~ 
l I higher learning. The quest for a piece ofpaper "suitable for framing" has both noble and practical consequences. Still, I challenge each 
RandyFahs 
more Friday analysis 

of you to ask yourselves the following ques­tion: "What was your prime reason for going to college?" 
Historically the answers have ranged from it being a great way to avoid the military draft, all the way to it being an easy way to move out ofthe house and still have someone else to pay for it. There are certainly a multitude of reasons to go to college and there are prob­ably several reasons which have drawn people to places like this. 
What I am mainly concerned with, though, are the two reasons which are basic to all ofus, so I must once again put the question to you, but in a more specified form: Are you going for an education or a job? I know it is probably a combination of these two reasons and many others, but what was your prime motivating interest, brains or bucks? 
I feel that I can say with some degree ofcer­tainty that your average aerospace engineer or accounting majorfaces a higher salary scale and better job prospects than someone who studied English literature or art history. But what of it, is it really so terrible that a person went to college to study engineering or busi­ness? 
In my mind, no, not if it is something you really want to do. Some people truly enjoy working out the schematics to computer hardware and still others are fascinated by the world offinance. For those people, I wish you much success in your career endeavors. But, for those of you who are banging your heads against the wall studying something you don't like, solely for its job prospects, then I have no sympathy for you when you find out a diploma isn't an immediate ticket to the promisedland. 
To study a-specified field on the college level is not to learn only practical knowledge in a given area, but it is to learn how to analyze a problem and think creatively. I remember an old line which says, "If you are an arts and let· ters major and your roommate is an engineer, fear not, you'll get a job someday, but he'll be boring forever." While I can't agree with this statement wholeheartedly, I must admit that we will all get jobs eventually, maybe with dif­ferent pay scales and opportunities for ad­vancement, but we will all find gainful employment. 

The point I am trying to make is the follow­ing: Study what you enjoy andfind interesting, not what you think will get you a job. Too many people spend four years (or more) studying something they hate only to find there isn't a pot of gold waiting for th•.:m im­mediately at the end ofthe rainbow. Th~.:re is a lot to be said for pursuing a "liberal educa­tion." While mechanical engineers may design bridges and physicists may help send men into outer space, the humanities give us beauty, art, music, etc. and they help us to bet­ter understand ourselves in philosophy and the social sciences. 
So the next time someone says that they are only in a certain field for the financial rewards, be quick and remind them that money and jobs may come and go, but an education must last a lifetime. 
Randy Fabs is a 1984 Notre Dame graduateandaformer Viewpoint columnist. 
the tiniest islands in the Caribbean seems laughable, but not to the Grenadian govern­ment, which claims a U.S. invasion is im­minent Carribbean Task Force Commander Admiral Robert McKenzie added fuel to the flames by referring to Cuba, Nicaragua, and Grenada as 'practically our country', and saying the U.S. must be prepared to 'interfere where possible and install a gov­ernment friendly to the way of life we espouse." · Radio report from The Pacific News Service, Oct. 9, 1984. 
After two years of economic, political, and 
military pressure from the U.S. government, 
the invasion finally occurred. The American 
public, having a lot of "pride" to swallow the 
day after the Marine bombing in Beirut, was 
more than ready to support the invasion. 
But today, one year later, the future of 
Grenada is uncertain. Free elections cannot 
take place because the only organized politi­
cal movement on the island-the NJM ·has ha., 
been deposed. Happy anniversary, Grenada. 
Santiago O'Donnell is a sophomore in the College ofArts & Letters. 
P.O.BoxQ 
I was once proud to be a Domer 

Dear Editor: 
I was once proud to be a Domer. 

Now I'm not so sure, thanks to the total lack of class shown by certain elements of the student body at the Air Force football game. Despite the accusations of our sports editor, our team a.nd its coaches have tried their hardest to win every foot­ball game. Should we fault them just be­cause they haven't brought home a national championship in seven years? 
Apparently, some students think so. They booed for much of the second half and also as the team was leaving the field. This is a "spoiled brat" attitude. Many schools would be happy to be .500, espe­cially with the tough schedule played by Notre Dame. 
Usten to the players. They are proud to be here, no matter what the record. They have gone all out, every game. It is sad to see that some of our students do not have as much class. 
Mark Mclaughlin Cavanaugh Hall 


Reeling Irish take on undefeated Gamecocks 
ND must stop veer in order to break two-game losing streak 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 

The Gamecocks ofSouth Carolina are the next team to invade Notre Dame Stadium, and they will be trying to extend their five-game winning streak over a team that has seen its brighter moments reduced to only a dim glimmer ofhope that the tide will turn around. Notre Dame is in the midst ofa two-game slide at home. The last time the Irish lost three games in a row in Notre Dame Stadium was in 1960 underJoe Kuharich, when the Irish lost 
•iour in a row and finished 2-8 for the season. 

South Carolina is in its second year of rebuilding under head 
coachJim Morrison. The team did not have a lot of experience last 
season, as the Gamecock roster was packed with underclassmen. 
Last year the Irish travelled down to Columbia, S.C., and handed the 
Gamecocks a 30-6 defeat. But this year, the South Carolina players 
have come back and appear to be using last season as a building 
block towards their S-0 record. 

"I think last year's outcome will help us in this game. We got so 
far behind in the first half that we were playing catch· up after Notre 
Dame's first five possessions," says Morrison. "The second half was 
an improvement, however. I think last year's outcome will help us 
in this game." 

So far this season, the Gamecocks have beaten Georgia and 
Pittsburgh, and are well-deserving of their 11th-place national 
ranking. Even though it is already halfway through the season, 
however, South Carolina will be playing its first game away from 
home. 

''I'm not concerned about playing away from Columbia," offers 
Morrison. "I think sometimes you play a little better on the road 
than you do at home." 

Ifyou happen to be on the other side of the fence, though, it is 
hard not to notice that the two consecutive losses have devastated 
the morale ofthe fans and caused the Notre Dame players to lose at 
least a little confidence in their own talents and in the abilites of 
the coaches. 

"We are playing a team with a lot of momentum and we don't 
have that," says Irish head coach Gerry Faust. "But that doesn't 
mean that things won't change." 

Another thing that remains the same for Notre Dame this week is 
that it must overcome some key injuries in order to perform well 
on Saturday. 

South carolina's offense against Notre Dame's defense: 
lbe Irish will have another chance this Saturday to prove themselves against an option offense after the Air Force destroyed Notre Dame with its wishbone attack last week as the Gamecocks will bring with them their veer offense. 
Morrison has used this offensive formation to become the 

Allen Mitchell 
SC quarterback 


Back in Action 
Injury-plagued Mike Larkin finally will get his chance to take field once again 
ByJERRY MELIA 
Sports Writer 

Many things haven't gone right for the Notre Dame football team the last two weeks. Not only did it lose important games to both Miami and Air Force, hut the team also has lost many key players in starting positions because ofinjuries. 
Although the Irish have many starters and other important players on the injury list, there is one player returning from the disabled list who could turn this team around both in the physical and and the psycho­logical sense. This athlete is Mike Larkin. 
Larkin, a 6-1, 221-pound senior, will return to the lineup for the first time since the conclusion of the 1982 season. Two major injuries have kept him out for the last year-and-a-half. He did not play a single minute last season because he broke his arm during preseason drills. The unfortunate coincidence about this injury was that he broke it in exactly the same place he did just prior to the end of the 1983 spring drills. He will receive an extra year of eligibility because of the injury. 
The Cincinnati native is one of four current Notre Dame players to play under Gerry Faust at Moeller High School. The others are Mark Brooks, Hiawatha successful coach that he is and has the talent at South Carolina this 
season to run it very effectively. Carolina is eighth in the nation in 
scoring with an average of32.6 points per game and 12th in total 
offense with 425 yards per outing. The Gamecocks have an 
incredible amount ofdepth in the offensive backfield and have 
been able to utilize a lot a players, keeping fresh people on the field 
at all times. 

Morrison has had success using a dual-quarterback system, doubling the effectiveness ofjuniors Allen Mitchell and Mike Hold. This will be the second time this season that the Irish will have faced the problem of the opponent having two good signal-callers ' to choose from. Notre Dame was able to contain Missouri's combination of Marlon Adler and Warren Seitz in its last victory. 
Mitchell is the starter, and has proven that he can run as well as throw. The 6-0, 175-pounder has completed 37 of6S passes for 559 yards and five touchdowns, while giving up only four interceptions. He poses a threat to run with the football also. He has accumulated 209 rushing yards, but his actual figure is less because ofyardage lost in quarterback sacks. 
Hold has performed well in a backup role. Although he throws less frequently, he is still a threat running with the ball. Hold has connected on 14 of 20 passes for just under 300 yards, well over 20 yards per completion. At 5-11, 195 pounds, Hold is well-suited to run the football and has gained six yards a carry, again neglecting yardage lost via sacks. 
South Carolina has a quartet ofrunning backs to chose from 
when running the veer option, and has balanced the number of 
times each one carries the ball very well. 
The top two rushers from '83 return, juniors Thomas Dendy and 
Kent Hagood, but are only in second and fourth positions in 
rushing yardage this season although they have over 1,700 and 
1,200 career mshing yards, respectively. Hagood has 236 yards 
( 6. 9 yards per carry average) and Dendy has rushed for 186 yards 
Even though injuries in the beginning of the season got both Dendy and Hagood off to a slow start, the Carolina running offense did not suffer. Quinton Lewis and Raynard Brown capably filled the voids, and now are the number one and three ground-gainers for the team. Lewis, at 6-0, 198 pounds, is not an overpowering runner, but has picked up 316 yards and has an impressive 7.3 average. Brown has contributed 199 yards ( S. 1 average). 
Although South Carolina has not passed a lot so far this season, when it does it rolls up yardage in huge tracts. The main target for Mitchell and Hold is senior flanker Ira Hi11ary. Hillary led Carolina with 30 receptions in 1983 and has 12 catches so far this year. 
see GAMECOCKS, page 8 

Fracisco, andJohn Askin. Larkin, like his team, had a very successful career while he attended Moeller. His individual honors include being a consensus prep all-American after being mentioned in theParade, Adidas, National High School Athletic Association, and Catholic All·America squads. Larkin was also a three-year starter at the linebacker position where he earned all-city, all-state, and all-Greater Cincinnati League recognition. His efforts also helped the Crusaders to unbeaten seasons and state titles in his junior and senior years. 
Obviously, this American Studies major hold fond memories of his high school years. "At Moeller we •:~·
....·· never worried about winning or losing," says Larkin, r "it was taken for granted." 
Larkin came to Notre Dame the same year as Faust with similar ideas of success. However, these hopes have not materialized as yet. 
In his freshman season, Larkin played in all twelve games while seeing a great deal of time in the latter part ofthe year. He played mostly behind Mark Zavagnin at weakside linebacker during the 1981 campaign. 
In 1982, the Howard Hall resident had a great 
see LARKIN, page 8 ,.4' 

• .J I l .t a t ; t I J I t • 4 I ~ 
I I t' I • '• • ": J I I I • I 
I 
'i 
) 

' 
I ( 
I i 
( 
( r 

SOUTH CAROLINA October 19, 1984 -page 8
lnsb Extra 


The Builder of Programs 
SC's Morrison has turned around Gamecocks 
By THERON ROBERTS Even though Morrison has seen such good results things before the season. We're very happy to be Sports Writer at South Carolina, few people expected the where we are." Gamecocks to have an outstanding season so soon A lot ofhis successes have come about because 
Joe Morrison's coaching career has thus far after the rebuilding started. "I'm not sure how we he has used an offense that he knows very well and mirrored the success he enjoyed playing profes­turned it around," Morrison says modestly. "The has found the right coaches and players to coach sional football for the New York Giants. He thought team has experienced and devoted football players. and execute it. "We've run the veer offense for nine he would give it a shot, but who would have ever The players have had a lot to do with it." years now," Morrison explains. "It's a very tough dreamed that it would turn out this well? What is even more impressive about his ac­offense to attack defensively and gives you a better 
Morrison, in his second year as head coach at complishments at South Carolina is that he has pa..o;;sing dimension than the wishbone, but is similar South Carolina, is a no-nonsense type of person done it with essentially the same players that went in concept." who goes about his business in a quiet, professional 
Morrison is slow to accept some of the credit he manner. In his first year, he went about the business 
deserves for his accomplishments, but Sa~ler, a ofturning the Gamecock football program into a 
close associate of Morrison, knows the man's value winner. His youthful team, faced with the second­
Joe Morrison's 
to rebuilding a program. "There are three things
Coaching Record 
toughest schedule in the country, finished with a 
about Coach Morrison that I have noticed since I've respectable 5-6 record. 
known him that make him successful," says Sadler. But this year has been the season that many 
"First, he knows how to interview assistant coaches South Carolina football fans have been waiting for. 
UT-Chattanooga 

and which ones are going to be right for his staff. lne Gamecocks have won their first five games, 
Second, he is intelligent himself, so he knows what providing another example of Morrison's ability to 
1973-1979 

kinds of things in the game offootball are success­
44-29-4 

turn a team's fortunes around. Carolina was 4-7 in ful. Third, he's a great administrator. He lets good
.597

I982 before Morrison appeared on the scene. 
coaches do the coaching and he handles ti!e team at The 14-year veteran of the Giants earned the 
team meetings. nickname "Old Dependable" in his days as a tight 
New Mexico 

"He is very thorough in his preparation, knows end, but also deserves it for his won-loss record in 
what he wants to do, and goes out and does it. He
1980-4-7-0 
his young career as a head coach. 

rarely makes mistakes. But ifhe does, he'll take it
1981 -4-7-1 

Morrison began his coaching career at 
and learn from it. He doesn't make the same
1982-10-1-0

Tennessee-Chattanooga in I973. After two straight 
mistakes twice." 4-7 campaigns and a 5-5-1 slate the following year, A mistake Morrison will never make is to under­
South Carolina 

Morrison guided UT-Chattanooga to a 3I-1 0-3 
emphasize the team concept. "Most of the men are record over the next four years, including two 
now used to doing things the way we do them after
1983-5-6-0
nine-victory seasons. 

being here for more than a year," Morrison says. 
1984-5-0-0

In I980, he was challenged again to put a 
"We want them to be able to work together under program back on its feet -this time New Mexico's. 
our system and for them to recognize the impor­His first two seasons at UNM ended with identical tance ofworking together. 4-7 records. But, in his third year in Albuquerque, 4-7 two seasons ago. While Mike White has built a "Being a professional player gives you insights to 
the Lobos enjoyed an outstanding I0-I record -team at Illinois with a flood of junior college attitude and how players will react to certain things capping an incredible turn-around. transfers, Morrison has brought in only two: you might try," he expands. "1 think I've used that 
"The job that Coach Morrison accomplished at quarterback Mike Hold and substitute free safety knowledge to get to our players." New Mexico was recognized by football people all Rick Rabune. Morrison has the insights and the knowledge to over the country as truly outstanding," says "We're doing essentially the same kind of things explain his success in college football coaching. Gamecock athletic director Bob Marcum. "Joe as coaches," Morrison states. "Our coaches try to Some of the things he does can already been seen Morrison has proven himselfas a head coach -he's a follow the guidelines that have been successful in appearing at other universities. But whatever winner." the past. In no way did we ever envision being 5-0 techniques Morrison uses deserve to be examined. 
Morrison knows how to turn a team around. at this point, but we, as coaches, don't look at those After all, it is difficult to find fault with his success. While he will say that there is no secret formula to guarantee success, those who have been associated with him during his three head coaching jobs attribute a lot of the good results to his coaching knowledge and the positive attitude that he passes down to his players. 
Frank Sadler is entering his sixth year as an offensive coordinator under Morrison. Sadler spent continued from page 7 three years with Morrison at Tennessee­averaging nearly 22 yards per grab. Hillary has outstanding speed Milt Jackson to utilize the deep Chattanooga and stayed there for two more years and has burned more than his share ofdefensive backs in his career. Carolina has had difficulty defe before rejoining Morrison at New Mexico for one His longest reception this year was a 62-yarder. The other major stumbling t season. When Morrison switched to South Carolina, Junior split end Eric Poole has seven receptions and also absence of the running game. 1 he brought Sadler and four other assistants with averages 22 yards per catch. The tight end is Chris Corley, a for Allen Pinkett and company. him for his third college football rescue effort. hulk-like 6-3, 252-pound senior. Corley has made only six catches those problems or resort to op "Coach Morrison has taken teams from their lowest this year, but has to be respected for his size and ability to run after more successful with the passi1 point and turned them completely around," says catching the ball. Morrison has not thrown to his running backs "I wish I knew what the ansv Sadler. "New Mexico was coming offof that big very much yet this year, but indicated that he might try it more has had such difficulty," says F<l scandal (many coaches and athletic officials were often ifthe Irish defense can stop the run. the line of scrimmage at all." fired because of payoffs to basketball players) and One of the major strengths of the South Carolina offense, the young people just got tired of losing . They had according to Morrison is having an all-senior offensive line. The 1be injury list for the Irish or the right attitude to turn things around. Gamecocks are big up front, but also have decent speed, making been recently, with Larry Willi; 
"We would have liked to turn the program their linemen well-equipped to block for the veer. suffering various knee and ankl1 around here the first year," Sadler continues. "But Four starters return from 1983, with only senior Tom Garner at slated to play after missing the 1 some injuries prohibited us from doing that. This center new to the lineup. Carl Womble and Bill Barnhill return at South Carolina will counter~ season, the kids have responded well, and we're the tackle positions and guards Jim Walsh and Del Wilkes are also named because of its all-out, sw " hack. The success Carolina has had on the ground this season, season, the Gamecocks have all averaging 246 yards per game, has been a result ofthe blocking and the ground and just 268 total y; execution of the offensive line. "South Carolina is as impress "Offensively, they present a lot ofproblems to you," Faust says of defense," says Faust. "They're a the multi-threat attack ofSouth Carolina. "They're also playing with speed and their ability to have (
• • • Larkin
continued from page 7 a lot of enthusiasm, a lot of intensity, and they've got a lot of pursue well and make it tough t momentum going."
season. He finished second among all Irish players with himself, doesn't feel that he deserves to come right in As if Notre Dame did not have enough problems already, a The Carolina secondary is a v a total of I 1 0 tackles, only three behind leader and start becauseJohn McCabe has been doing a good significant portion of the Irish defense is keeping the sports returning with considerable exJZavagnin, while starting in every game. He also led the job. "Although he (Larkin) has been a great player for medicine staff very busy. Strong safetyJoe johnson is listed as have been impressive so far this team in tackles for losses with 13. lnis ability to trap ' us in the past," says Faust, "he must prove himself and doubtful with an ankle sprain sustained in the Air Force game. Add free saftey, leads the secondarythe opposition behind the line ofscrimmage is earn his spot back." 
to that the loss offree saftey Steve Lawrence, who suffered a tions. Sophomores Chris Major: attributed to his quickness and capability of reading an Whether he starts or not, Larkin can hardly wait to bruised shoulder against Miami, and the Notre Dame secondary nods at the cornerback position
offense. get back out on the field again. "I am ready to give it will be a little thin. Hiawatha Francisco will probably play, but is Hilton Tayloe started in those SJThe entire 1983 season and the first half of this one my all," says Larkin, "I have heen cheerleading for too 
not expected be at full speed. sophomore, gets the nod a strorhave been very frustrating for Larkin. It has been a time long." 
"Anytime you're up against a big, strong football team, you're The Gamecock linebacking operiod plagued with injury on top of injury. A broken This potentially dominant player on the defense isn't going to have to put the ball in the air a little more," Morrison says, defense, with seniors Paul Voge forearm caused his absence during the '83 campaign, the only one pleased with his return. "Just having him 
seemingly noticing the weakness in the Irish defense. team in tackles. Vogel has 49 ta<and a knee injury prevented him from participating in back is a great boost," says Faust, "he is a leader, a Also expected to be out are cornerback !\like Haywood and while Seawright adds 47. Thewthe first six games this year. The latest injury occurred competitor, and an inspirator." 
tackle Eric D<:•rsey. Tony Furjanic's knee may not be healed before by freshman Carl Hill. 
during fall practice exactly one year and a day after his Now that Larkin is back on the field, he wants to do the season ends, but Mike Larkin will have the chance to play for Maybe the biggest weakness cprevious injury. It was a freak accident on a practice all he can to help the team. He has his sights on South the first time this season after straining knee ligaments before theday where the players weren't supposed to hit hard. Carolina in particular. The Gamecocks come to Notre 
season.

Larkin pulled the running back over his leg and it Dame Stadium Saturday boasting a 5-0 record. They 
Notre Dame's offense against South carolina's defense:
twisted in such a way to cause torn ligaments in his are a team that has a well-balanced attack as they use 
John Carney'~
In the past three weeks, the Irish offensive unit has moved no
knee. both the run and pass effectively. "To shut them faster than molasses, and has scored at a lethargic one-touchdown­Larkin admits that his knee has not yet fully (South Carolina) down, we must stop their quarter­per-game rate.
recovered. "I don't have full movement yet," he says. back," says Larkin, "It's going to be tough, but I think At least part of the problem will be addressed this week, as"My north to south motion is good, but when I move we can do it." 
quarterback Steve Beuerlein will return to the starting lineup afterlaterally, it bothers me." To protect the injury from This week has been a rather eventful week for the 
Field Goals 
sitting out the Air Force game with a shoulder problem.
re-occurring, Larkin has been wearing a double brace. Irish football team. The team been working hard to In the past few games, Notre Dame has been stuck with 
6-of-6

"It's sturdy and doesn't allow much movement." find and solve the problems that have hurt it in recent completing the short pa...,ses, while the deep threat has heenThe coaches are going to work the hard-hitting weeks, hut, at least, with Larkin's return, there is some combatted well by opposing secondaries. Look for Joe Howard andlinebacker back into the system gradually. Larkin, good news. 

~e8 
.INA lnsb Extra 
>cks 
L'ion. We're very happy to be 
ses have come about because 5e that he knows very well and ·oaches and players to coach ve run the veer offense for nine n explains. "It's a very tough ::nsively and gives you a better Ian the wishbone, but is similar 
o accept some ofthe credit he 
•mplishments, but Sacler, a >rrison, knows the man's value ·am. "There are three things m that I have noticed since I've e him successful," says Sadler. r to interview assistant coaches ~oing to be right for his staff. ent himself, so he knows what ·game offootball are success-t administrator. He lets good rling and he handles tl!e team at 
gh in his preparation, knows and goes out and does it. He 
s. But ifhe does, he'll take it doesn't make the same 
n will never make is to under­:oncept. "Most ofthe men are tings the way we do them after than a year," Morrison says. ~ able to work together under 
em to recognize the impor­::ther. 1al player gives you insights to rers will react to certain things 
pands. "I think I've used that )ur players." 
Joe Morrison 
tsights and the knowledge to t college football coaching. 
SC head coach 
: does can already been seen 
tiversities. But whatever uses deserve to be examined. to find fault with his success. 
Miltjackson to utilize the deep patterns more on Saturday a'i 
Carolina has had difficulty defending against the bomb. 
The other major stumbling block for the offense has been the absence of the running game. The holes just have not been there for Allen Pinkett and company. Notre Dame will have to solve those problems or resort to opening up the ground game by being more successful with the passing game. 
"I wish I knew what the answer is as far as why our running game has had such difficulty," says Faust. "We're just not controlling the the line ofscrimmage at all." 
The injury list for the Irish on offense is less extensive than it has been recently, with Larry Williams finally back to full strength after suffering various knee and ankle ailments. Alonzo Jefferson is also slated to play after missing the Air Force game with a foot injury. 
South Carolina will counter with its reknown "Fire Ant" defense, named because ofits all-out, swarming style ofplay. So far this season, the Gamecocks have allowed only 112 yards per game on the ground and just 268 total yard" per game. 
"South Carolina is as impressive as anyone we've seen on defense," says Faust. "They're a lot like Miami in terms oftheir team speed and their ability to have people around all the time. They pursue well and make it tough to move the football." 
The Carolina secondary is a veteran group, with three players returning with considerable experience, and two sophomores who have been impressive so far this season. Bryant Gilliard, a senior free saftey, leads the secondary with 44 tackles and two intercep­tions. Sophomores Chris Major and Otis Morris will get the starting nods at the cornerback positions, even though seniors Gilliard and Hilton Tayloe started in those spots last season. joe Brooks, another sophomore, gets the nod a strong safety. 
The Gamecock linebacking corps is also a strength ofthe defense, with seniors Paul Vogel andJames Seawright leading the team in tackles. Vogel has 49 tackles and six stops for lost yardage, while Seawright adds 47. The weakside linebacker position is filled by freshman Carl Hill. 
Maybe the biggest weakness of the South Carolina defense is in 
John Carney's Kicking Stats 
Field Goals  PAT's  
6-of-6  13-of-13  
- 

SOUTH CAROLINA October 19, 1984 -page 9 
Chris Smith 
Senior fullback takes events in stride 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
~ports W'rlter 
It is said that adversity builds character. Ifthis is 
true, then any athlete that plays for Notre Dame should 
expect to build some character after four years. Simply 
by donning a Notre Dame uniform, an athlete is taking 
on the challenge ofrepresenting tbe university for 
football, and with this task comes an awful lot of 
pressure. But one competitor who has taken this 
challenge and done well is senior fullback Chris Smith. 
"There is a lot ofpressure at this place," says Smith. 
"Once opponents see those gold helmets, they get just 
as charged up as we are wearing them. They want to 
upset Notre Dame." 
Smith, a 6-2, 231-pound Cincinnati, Ohio, native, is one Ohio football player who did not attend that famed high school. Rather, he played out his high school career at a rival institution, LaSalle High School. "It wasn't an intense rivalry, but we were over­shadowed by Moeller," recalls Smith. "My freshman, sophomore and junior years, we never beat them on the varsity level. Finally, my senior year, we felt a little more optimistic. We had beaten their seniors a few years earlier in junior high play. But I guess it just wasn't to be. We lost again. In fact, in the history ofmy school, we had never beaten Moeller. So when Coach Faust went to Notre Dame and recruited me, I thought, ifl can't beat him, I'll join him." 
Smith completed his senior year as a consensus prep all-America choice following mention onParade and Adidas/Scholastic Coach. A three-time letter-winner at running back, Smith totaled 2,110 career rushing yards at LaSalle and was named captain ofan all-Greater Cincinnati League squad as a senior. But Smith was not satisfied. He set high goals for himself upon entering Notre Dame as a freshman. "When I came to Notre Dame, I wanted to contribute to the team as much as possible," explains Smith. "In fact, I wanted to letter. And I felt it was within reach for me." 
As extra incentive toward accomplishing this goal, Smith was rooming with fellow Ohio native and rival fullback, Mark Brooks. "Mark is like a brother tc me" Smith says. "So it was a little hard to be so competitive with him. We had our few, rare occasions that were trying, but itothing real serious. In fact, the competi­
• • • Gamecocks 
its line positions. "We have a small defensive line," says Morrison. 
"We hope we will be able to contain Notre Dame's size." 
Carolina's defensive ends are small, but have been able to handle 
anything they have confronted so far this season. Tony Guyton, a 
6-0, 21 0-pound junior, and sophomore WHlie Mcintee, at 6-2, 222 
pounds, are major reasons for the low rushing figures for 
Gamecock opponents. 

'The balance ofthe defensive line has some experience, with 
tackles Frank Wright and Glenn Woodley having respectable size 
and returning as starters. Backup Fitzgerald Davis leads the team in 
stops for lost yardage with seven. 

The kicking game and specialty teams: 
The Gamecocks lost career record-holding kicker Mark 
Fleetwood after last season. Fleetwood was 39-of-53 in field goals 
in his career. Sophomore Scott Hagler has taken his place, but has 
connected on only three-of-five attempts, (one-of-three over 40 
yards), but has proved to be solid in the extra-point department, 
hitting on all 22 ofhis attempts. 

Junior Tom O'Connor handles the punting duties for South Carolina, averaging 41.4 yards per effort. O'Connor is also replacing a record-setter in Chris Norman, who holds the single-season punting record. 
Returning punts will be sophomore Terry Dunlap, who is averaging 9.6 yards per return. The team as a whole is rated 18th in the country with a 9.5 average. 
Probably the most consistent part of the Notre Dame football squad ha'i been the punting and placekicking. Mike Viracola, although he had a sub-par performance last week, is averaging 40.3 yards per boot. John Carney, althouh the offense has not been getting the ball within his field-goal range, has come through on all six ofhis field goal tries and 13 PAT's. 
Keys to the game: 

It is no secret that Notre Dame is not at an emotional peak at this point in the season, and a loss to South Carolina would seemingly doom the Irish to feelings of despair. 
There is no doubt that Notre Dame should be able to stay in the game, and could pull it out ifsome breaks go its way. The Irish have to regain its composure and a win would do that. 
"This is a good football team that will be out to prove something after losing their last two games at home," states Morrison. "We don't have a whole lot to say whether Notre Dame losing two games in a row is going to work for or against them. That will be up to them." 
Faust is calling Saturday's game "a chance for redemption." He may be right. There is no reason why his team should be stagnating on a losing trend. 
Notre Dame still has five games left in the season, and now is no time to give up on this team. However, the Irish need a win, and they need one badly. A victory over the Gamecocks would be as good a'i gold for Notre Dame fortunes. 

tion really helped us in a way. The better he got. the 
more I was pushed, and vice versa. both on and off the 
field." 
In the 1981 season opener against Louisiana State, Smith came out strong, gaining 61 yards on eight carries. He continued to contribute, playing in eight games as a freshman and finishing fourth in rushing with 161 yards and one touchdown. Smith didn't letter at the fullback position, though. Instead, he made his contribution at the tailback slot. But after the success­ful rookie campaign, a new kid arrived on the block by the name of Allen Pinkett, and some position juggling wa<ii required. The coaches knew the athletic ability and potential ofSmith, and felt a talent like his didn't belong on the bench. 
Smith was tried with the linebacking corps at the beginning ofthe 1982 season. But despite his hard work and dedication, it was decided that linebacker was not the position where Smith's talent would be best utilized. So midway through the season, Smith found himself back at the more comfortable position offullback. Because of all the movement, his sopho­more year was not the most productive statistically. But he kept plugging away. 
By 1983, it seemed as ifSmith was settled in at fullback, as he split playing time with Brooks. But the '83 offense wasn't geared all that much toward Smith. "It was very frustrating not to be used more in the season," Smith recalls. "Our offense just wasn't geared for incorporating the fullback frequently. I knew what I could do to help the team and I just wanted to go out there and do it. It was really an incentive, though, to play with an Allen Pinkett. It inspired me to watch him because I realized, here was a talented runner who has accomplished so much. He got where he is today because ofhard work andteam work. He needs the linemen and the backs to do what he does, so I feel that I am some small part ofhis success, too." 
A bruising runner and blocker, Smith carried more than his share ofresponsibility for the Irish in '83. He racked up 4 21 yards on 77 carries while starting 1 1 games. But Smith's time to shine came in post-season action when the Irish took on Boston College in the Uberty Bowl. He carried the ball 18 times for 104 yards, his best game as a collegian. Many eyes stood up and took notice ofthis new force emerging from the backfield... especially the coaches. "I think the Uberty Bowl opened the coaches' eyes more to see how my position could be better utilized," says Smith. "Now their philosophy is to get the fullback into the scheme of things and intergrate the position into the offense. You won't hear any complaints from me about that." 
And ifSmith continues to produce, you certainly won't hear any complaints from Irish fans either. But when the negative comments do flow, Smith can understand why. "Whether it's deserved or not, the fans will comment," Smith says. "When we win, we get credit for the win. When we lose, we should get credit for the loss. And I think the team has matured because ofit. I feel I have in my four years. Our maturity and growth, however, isn't measured in the tangibles, in the win-loss column. But it's there."
·-,.,.,_ 

Chris Smith ND fullback 
SOUTH CAROLINA October 19, 1984 -page 1 0 
lnsb Extra 

NOTRE DAME VS. SOUTH CAROLINA 
THE GAME 
THE STATISTICS 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP RUSHING G NO VDS AVG TO LG
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. South Carolina Gamecocks Last 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 1737 2112 Pinkett 6 112 391 3.5 6 20
SITE: Notre Dame Stadium ( 59,075) 
Total Plays 394 439 Jefferson 6 29 93 3.2 2 10

TIME: 11:20 EST; Saturday, Oct. 20, 1984 
Yards per Play 4.4 4.8 Brooks 6 22 89 4.0 2 12 
'IV-RADIO: ESPN Live National Telecast 
Yards per Game 289.5 352.0 Smith 6 24 80 3.3 0 15 Jim Thacker and Ed Biles 
Year's 
PENAL TIES-YARDS 31-226 32-301 Flemons 1 10 31 3.1 0 15 FUMBLES-LOST 19-7 16-11 Monahan 3 2 17 8.5 0 10 TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 107 122 Miller 2 1 13 13.0 0 13
WNDU-lV(Ch. 16) 
By Rushing 48 68 DeHueck 1 3 11 3.7 0 6 
Jeff Jeffers and Jack Nolan 
Game 
By Passing 51 49 Starns 3 1 5 5.0 0 5 
By Penalty 8 5 Machtolf 1 2 3 1.5 0 2 1 2 1 0.5 0 1
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 84-36 85-37 Carter Percentage .429 .435 Jackson 6 1 -4 -4.0 0 -4
TCS/Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 
Harry Kalas and George Connor 
POSSESSION TIME 166:56 193:04 Grooms 2 13 -21 -1.6 0 7 Minutes per Game 27:49 32:11 Bauerlein 5 27 -24 -0.9 0 18 
OctoberS, 1183
Notre Dame Mutual Ra-:lio Network 
Notre Dame 13 10 0 7 30
Tony Roberts, Pat Sheridan, Luther Bradley 
NOTRE DAME 6 249 685 2.8 10 20
South Carolina 0 0 6 0 6 
SCORING GTD PAR-PAS FG TP OPPONENTS 6 312 1151 3.7 9 48
WNDU-AM 1500 
Scoring NO -Johnston 49 FG 
Pinkett 6 7 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 42
NO-Smith 26pass from Beuertein (Johnston kick) 
SERIES: Notre Dame 3, South Carolina 0 
Carney 6 0 13-13 0-0 0 6-6 31 PASSING G NC CO PCT INT YOS TO 
NO -Johnston 27 FG 
LAST MEETING: October 8, 1983 Jackson 6 4 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 24 Jefferson 6 2 0-0 1-0 0 0-0 14 Bauerlein 5 106 67 .632 8 894 5 
NO-Johnston 41 FG 
NO-Pinkett 59 pass from Bauerlein (Johnston kick) SC-Hagood 1 run (pass failed) 
Notre Dame 30, South Carolina 6 
Brooks 6 2 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 12 Grooms 2 38 14 .368 1 134 1 (AP) Notre Dame unranked, South Carolina 11th 
NO-Pinkett 2 run (Johnston kick) 
Ward 5 1 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 6 Andrysiak 1 0 0 .000 0 0 0
RANKINGS: 
NO sc 

Chura 1 0 1-1 0-0 0 1-1 4
Game is sold outTICKETS: 
Firstdowns 17 16 
Ball age 6 0 0-0 o-o 1 o-o 2 NO 6 145 82 .566 9 1052 6 
Rushing attempts 48 48 
VonWyl 1 0 1-1 0-0 0 0-0 1 OPP 6 127 76 .598 6 961 6
Net Yards Rushing 199 157 
THE SCHEDULE 
NOTRE DAME SEPT. 8 lost to Purdue, 23-21 SEPT. 1 S def. Mich. St., 24-20 SEPT. 22 def. Colorado, 55-14 SEPT. 29 def. Missouri, 16-14 OCT. 6 lost to Miami, 3 1-1 3 OCT. 13 lost to Air Force, 2 1-7 OCT. 20 SOUTH CAROUNA OCT. 27 at L.S.U. NOV. 3 Navy at Meadowlands NOV. 17 PENN STATE NOV. 24 at Southern Cal 

SOUTII CAROLINA SEPT. 8 def. The Citadel, 31-24 SEPT. I 5 def. Duke, 21-0 SEPT. 29 def. Georgia, 17-10 OCT. 6 def. Kansas State, 49-17 OCT. 13 def. Pittsburgh, 45-21 OCT. 20 at Notre Dame OCT. 27 EAST CAROUNA NOV. 3 at N.C. State NOV. 10 FLORIDA STATE NOV. 17 at Navy NOV. 24 at Clemson 

Net Yards Passing  163  82  
Passescomp-attempted  9-14  10-25  
Had intercepted  0  2  
Total Net Yards  362  239  
Fumbles-lost  1-1  5-1  
Penalties-yards  9-1 05  8-90  
Punts-average  4-49.5  5-38.6  
Individual L•dara  

RUSHING-Notre Dame: Pinkett23-110;Smith 11· 75; Brooks 5-24; Francisco 5-12: Bauerlein 3-(-8): Kiel 1-(-14); South carolina: Hagood 14-79; Dendy 9-33; Lewis 7-23; Hillary 1-10; Mitchetl9-5; Desmond 8-7; 
PASSING-Notre Dame: Beuerlein9-13-Q; Kiet Q-1­
0: South carolina: Mitchetl4-14-2: Desmond 6-11-0 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Smith 3-45; Pinkett 2­61; Howard 2-20: Bavaro 1-21; Favorite 1-16: South carolina: Dendy 4-41; Poole 2-37: Hagood 1·6; Hil· lary 1-4; Lewis 1-2; Berry 1-8; 
Attendance--74.500 
NO  6 16 15-15  1-0 1  7-7136  DEFENSE  TMTL-VDS PBU FR BK  
OPP  615 9-11  2-4 1  6-9123  
Kovaleski  74  2-4  2  0  0  
RECEIVING  G NO YDS AVG TO LG  Furjanic  48  0-0  1  0  0  
McCabe  40  1-1  0  1  0  
Bavaro  6  20  247 12.3  0  24  Johnson  39  0-0  1  0  0  
Jackson  6  17  189 11 .1  4  31  Banks  39  3-6  0  0  0  
Brown  6  15  164 10.9  0  19  Ball age  39  0-0  3  1  0  
Pinkett  6  11  138 12.5  1  40  Gann  31  11-79  0  3  0  
Howard  6  6  99  16.5  0  26  Kleine  31  6-20  0  2  0  
Smith  6  4  45  11.2  0  18  Wilson  30  0-0  2  1  0  
Jefferson  6  3  40  13.3  0  27  Lawrence  22  0-0  3  2  0  
Ward  5  2  84 42.0  1  74  Francisco  22  0-0  0  0  0  
Miller  2  1  15 15.0  0  15  Griffin  20  2-5  0  0  1  
Brooks  6  1  13  13.0  0  13  Golic  17  1-4  0  0  0  
Gray  6  1  11  11.0  0  11  DiBernardo  17  0-0  2  0  0  
Cusack  6  1  7  7.0  0  7  Haywood  15  o-o  0  0  2  
Dingens  13  2-12  0  1  0  
NOTRE DAME  6  82 1052  12.8  6  74  Figaro  13  0-0  0  0  0  
OPPONENTS  6  76  961 12.6  6  50  Dorsey  12  0-0  1  0  0  


I I I 
f 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS (?) 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked at the discretion of the sports editor and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major col­lege football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the underdog points. Home team is in CAPS. 

IOWA over Michigan by 6. 5 Boston College over WEST VIRGINIA by 2.'; MIAMI over Pittsburgh by 14 Ohio State over MICHIGAN STATE by 7 PENN STATE over Syracuse by 6. 5 GEORGIA over Vanderbilt by 6.5 Alabama over TENNESSEE by 2. '; Wisconsin over INDIANA by 7 AUBURN over Georgia Tech by 9. '; Brigham Young over AIR FORCE by 6 ILLINOIS over Purdue by 7 Louisiana State over KENTUCKY by 2. 5 
MINNESOTA over Northwestern by 10 South Carolina over NOTRE DAME by 1.S 

E, .·:M~~~:~i&::::~.
\,.+;;, 


·~
·;Ji~~ 


Larry Burke Jeff Blumb Theron Roberts Ed Domansky Mike Sullivan Darby II Mary Ann Raeker Sports Wnter Asst. Sports Editor Sports Writer Sports Wnter Sports Editor Guest Celebrity Random Student 39-4o-2 32-47-2 32-47-2 32-47-2 31-48-2 33-46-2 41-38-2 .493 .418 .418 .41Cl .395 .420 .519 
(last week -4-8-2) (last week-7-5-2) 
Wolverines Wolverines Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Wolverines Hawkeyes Mountaineers Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Mountaineers Mountaineers Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Panthers Hurricanes Panthers Hurricanes Buckeyes Buckeyes Spartans Buckeyes Buckeyes Spartans Spartans 
Orangemen Lions Lions Lions Orangemen Orangemen Lions Commodores Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs Commodores Commodores Bulldogs 
Tide Volunteers Tide Volunteers Tide Volunteers Tide Badgers Badgers Badgers Badgers Hoosiers Hoosiers Badgers Tigers Jackets Jackets Jackets Jackets Jackets Tigers Cougars Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Illini Illini lllini lllini Illini Boilers lllini Tigers Tigers Wildcats Tigers Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Gophers Wildcats W'ildcats Wildcats Wildcats Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Irish Gamecocks 
Sports Briefs 
The St. Mary's Volleyball team added two 
more victories to an impressive slate behind strong performances from freshmen Kara Tekulve and Mary Carole Feldman. The Belles, who are next in action at home against Marion on October 7, downed DePauw, 15·4, 15· 7, and Huntington, 15· 7, 15-11last night. 
Morrissey Hall swept the NVA cross-country competi· tion for the third consecutive year Wednesday. Morrissey took first place in the second and last meet this year, as Jeff Westhoven finished first in 13:18 on the two-and-a-half-mile course. Morrissey won the meet with 46 points, while Flanner finished second with 86 points. Grace was third with 89, and Keenan had 105 points in fourth place. Howard, Cavanaugh and Stanford also participated but did not have enough runners to record points. Flanner's Bobby Bligh was second in 13:44, Howard's Shaun O'Brien took third in 13:53 and Cavanaugh's Kevin Prendergast was fourth in 14:07. · Tbe Observer 
NVA aerobics classes will start a second session on Monday, October 29. Classes, which cost $4 for students and J 13 for faculty and staff, meet from 4 to 4:50p.m. and 5:10 to 6 p.m. on Mondays and Wednesdays and from 4 to 4:50p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Anyone interested may register in person at the NVA office.· The Observer 
I 

Friday, October 19, 1984 -page 11 
A horseback-riding trip to Happy Trails Riding Stables is being sponsored by NVAon Sunday, Nov. 4. Trips will leave at 10 a.m., 11:30 a.m., noon and 1:30 p.m.lfyou have put your name on the waiting list or are interested in signing up, bring $5 to the NVA office to cover transportation and rides.. The Observer 
"F•tness F a monthly newsletter published by
1 ocus," Non-Varsity Athletics, is now available. To place your name on the mailing list, call the NVA office at 239-6100. ·The Observer 
NVA's Century Club is a program of exercise and fitness in which participants set their own exercise goals. For more information, contact the NVA office. ·The Observer 
Student basketball ticket applications should 
arrive in the mail by Monday, October 29. Applications and payment will be collected according to the following schedule: seniors, Nov. 5; juniors and ninth-semester students, Nov. 6; sophomores, grad and law students, Nov. 7; freshmen, Nov. 8. Distribution will be from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. each day. -Tbe Observer 
The ND women's cross-country team will play host to the Indiana State Championship Meet today on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The open division race will begin at 2 p.m., and the competitive points race will start at 3 p.m. -Tbe Observer 
Sherry fired as San Diego pitching coach 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO · Norm Sherry, a seven-year colleague of Dick Wil· Iiams, was fired as San Diego's pitch· ing coach because of "conflicts" between him and members of the staff, General Manager Jack McKeon said yesterday. 
Sherry had confirmed his dismis­sal Wednesday night, three days after the Padres lost the final game of the World Series to Detroit. He said he'd been offered a job coaching for the Padres at the minor league level. 
"It was a shock to me," Sherry told the San Diego Union. "When you win, you never expect something like that." 
Classifieds 
The Obserz•er Notre Daml' olfke. located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Centl'r. accepts da~itkd advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary's office:. located on the third floor of Haggar College: Center. accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 <.'ents per fi\'e charac­ters er dav. 
I neM1 1 ride beck from K.C.Ifter break Two South Carolina GA's for sale... Call To guys in section 2Aol the"Naugh" Esp. ANNIE MURPHY: Guess what, Bater 2? GIVE ME THE CARDINALE FAMILYIll even more thin the lrllh n-s a new Vince at 1769 Am 213: Don't get hit by a bus while on You're normal! But still weird! Happy 20th! NOTICES footbell coed~! can you help me? Cell break! Have a wild one! L011e, Spanky D.C. here we come!· B1 NYC is not going 
E.J.It:S:WO. Faetl I NEED SOUTH CAROLINA GAs.272· to be the ssme without you. David will ATIENTION All GIRLS ... I NEED A 6306 HI KEN! (Yes. I'm talking to you,Ken) miss seeing you. Happy Birthday! MB DATE THIS FRIDAY BUT ROSIE IS EXPERT TYPING 277·8534 after 5:30 Help Wanted Bartenders, Barmaids, What have you been doing? Just wanted Roomie: Emi~o called to wish you a happy BUSY. IF YOU CAN HELP ME OUT 
Waitressee_ Apply at CHIPS or call TWO S.C. GA'S FOR SALE. 283-1503 to say hi. Have a good break! birthday. Please call him back soon! Pan CALL TIM TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 2334858 now. Ann: Annie is a stupid name. You have 2 SO. CAROLINA GA'S FOR SALE· DATE SQUAD IS HERE ... The BEST so­been incredibly jealous of me as long as 
ANN MURPHY TURNS 20 TUESDAYI!I 

FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A Driving to NO from NY after break? Pull U CAU LAURA )2764 cial al1ernalive on campus!!! Meet great I've known you, which is probably longer 
H you have the chlnce go wllh Ann,

BELLY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEK! 272· Haul from Spring Valley NY. WiH pay gas. girls like Frandy Warhol, Bunny's than anyone else on this campus. Come lila lha nymphette, • happy blrthdlly
1858 trailer, and $100.287-7400 2 SC GA's FOR SALE JEFF lt3500 daughter, Nanna, Murph, Skipper, and on! Admit it! Aren't you glad wehave been 
aver In 211 UlleNI. Say 'HI' to TMI

the Virgin Cow. Who you gonna call? friends for longer than just one night, 
Baby, tw roomie, wht.. your .,_.,

TYPING You have the opportunity to make my Have twoS. Carolina G.A.'& lor sale. Call DATE SQUAD!! which is all you intended the first time we 
8etW go ..ty becau• ~ the aun

Jackie Boggs break days pass by ina peaceful, tension­Paul at 1762. met. have a good 20th. This is getting too 
Mta lhe'H beheMied towardlthe INn! 

684-8793 free bliss by telling me that you have room You're life is in great danger, Bunny's tong. from the bast damn roommate you returning from OMAHA TO NO. Now how six South Carolina G.A.·s for sale cheap daughter! Watch out. we have agents at wiH ever have. can you tum clown an opportunity fike this John2309 Villanova waiting for you... There is no 
BABE!!! I miss you. I need you. Come

EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 to be noble? Be a sweetie and make my escape! Signed, Neuters and protective Knigllta Inn I (Where·s Rob?) Hey, Mass. 
home.. Come home

day; Sue4144 Need 2 LSU Tickets.Call 284-4510 or friends did Sen Diego beat the Padres? Cool slip­
lk hou van je!! 

TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 272·1968. pers Scali! Gin and tonic. hold the tonic. 
Jess

NEEDED!!! Part-time retail sales person­Cheryl & Peggy please. Preppa says BOO is zipped! 
PS. PBtime 

GOVERNMENT JOBS. 116,551 • nel for CORNERSTONE. Seeking warm. HEY!! You don't -nn1 ...thoae guys So are we set or what? Munching, mixing &ub was kidnapped by Joes Wagoneer. $50,553/YEAR. NOW HIRING. YOUR gregarious individuals who enjoy selling pley Penn Stltell don't either-but my and molesting men in the wilds of Mic­Kinky stuff· leaves, bathtub, greenfield AREA. CAU BOS-eii7-IOOO EXT. R-family 1ctive-wear. Hourly wage $4.00. friend from PSU -ntl to gloat... So higan is finally at hand (STS). Be sure to and purple crushed velvet! Derf-beware BOB BECHT HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY 1834. Apply in person at Buyer's Marketplace, Mil me your STUDeNT TICKET to PSU pack 8\lerything you need! Sunday wiH of the cyclops and the 8 year homo. B's (finally)!! on Oct. 23 You're definetely one 
5901 North Grape Rd. now. You'M feel Mner for It Call Keith see us party bound! first r<*l trip to South Bend, goo' Miss Mil· in a million and I know I'M never forget you TYPING SERVICE 3345. -Sz fer sure locka the keys in her room a lot! (and I hope you won't let me). Heve an 277-41045 Seniors' Anyone out there -nt to go to Stay •-Y from Preppa she was T.B. AWESOME on Tuesday!! L011e,
day PICKUP AND DEUVERY N-Orlelns? I can't go. If you're inter· Hard to beli8\le, but I still have 2 GA tick· Movie ends· Mass Ellodus! The hotel Aathkin eated in taking my place call John 1082. eta to the S.C. game which are very close NEED TICKETS to Penn State. Parents party saga continues-Days Inn Ill...com­to the 50 YARD-LINE. I'm sure you've want to see first NO football game. Hey, ing soon! Stay tuned for details. ZARF! 
ZOID:I'U FIXX YOU!PSYCHED FORWordprocessing and Typing. 272-8827 CLEVELANDERS; Riders leaving Sun· been trying to call, but I haven't been they're my parenlll. what cen I say. Please 

THE FURS!LET'S TAKE THE WHOLE

day needed-Pat 232.0554 there. Please call Murph at 283-1933 sell me 2 GAs. or I am in the dog's house. BULLY WOMEN should be outlawed' 
DAY OFF!HOW ABOUT A

TYPING CAU CHRIS 234-8117 before Saturday. I'd hlte to see you miss call Maureen at 1333. 
WEEK?STATE STREET AWAITS!! LUV, 

NEEDED: Riders to western Mishawaka. the game. SCHLEPPS OF THE WEEK: frCMh from 
W3.

$$ CASH FOR TEXTBOOKS $$ PAN· Leaving this weekend. Share elq)enses. Brian Roney, Month 7 just keeps getting K..-n 3-Weat. DORA'S BOOKS 937 SOUTH BEND No smokers, please. Call CHRIS at 291 o. SC GA's for sale cheap. cau 272-0805. batter and better all the lime!!!!! "Talk to 
Hey au_.. of Lank, Hope you hMI 1

AVE. 233·2342 Good location. me" you Genetics god. I guHS Mendehl Join the KMNift 3-WeetiiETAL CLUB. 
great day! YFF 

was right when he said that pre-meds Bing your heed lind eat your ct.d. YES It's Friday and YES I stiH have 1 SC were understanding sweethearts. Thanks Take Iota of cool c:lrup and ICON with WATCH OUT for a meeting after Break! 
FOR SALE GA FOR SALE CALL 1966 for the memories, and they have just every chick th8t you even look at Be • 
Great SKI trips to Steamboat Springs,

begun·-L&K.V devil -.hipper, and ...III'BIIy loee Col. Ski & Party with hundreds r:A other
FOR SALE: 2 S.C. GA'e. Cal14512 your hearing. Cell Frank for lnf~ but oo1tege students this X-Mas! BE THERE!!
LOST/FOUND I 
1976 Chevy Capr1ce, 9-passenger SKID ROW ... MORE THAN A SECTION. don't be lllllrmecllf he doeltt't ......... 
RENE'1190

wagon. FuR Power, AIC. Automatic 350 Forllle IrS A WAY OF LIFE. He'1 Jultfrying hta brain with 1M 1ate1t v-s, 57,000 miles, $1,000. 2n-oo41 2SOUTH CAROLINA GA'I Ozzyllbum: "101 Weys to Serve Rlbld
LOST .MONDAY: HP-41CV CALCULA­TO THE FRIENDLY FAGS OF 11·7. A
(After 5:00p.m.) Pick up the phone, gimme a call WOMEN'S CROSS..COUNTRY Beta."
TOR WITH MATH PACK PAT 277-6464 PISUEDO PARTY (AS IT WERE)??
The BADLANDS. uk for Den 1184 State championships here at N.D. today 
SOUNDS LIKE A KNIGHTMARE.

FOR SALE: 1 S.C. STUD TIX call:3052 at 2 and 3 p.m. GOOD LUCK! Nancy Jon the Anne Ferry Club. Go to an expen­
LOST: Gucci eoinpurse in Huddle on Sat WANNA RACE? LOVE TO LOVE TO
LoughHn Ju~a Merkel Mary Robertson sive SYR. spend two hours in the bath­
night 10113 ·has great sentimental value! BUT NO CAN DO. • THE LEWIS MAD
Susan Wanchow Hey team. let's gat this room, and then bag your date before 
PLEASE return to 822 P.E. or call JiM at DOGS
one!!!! midnight. Hey, Anne, how was that party2666. Thank you. 
at Stanford. anyway? 

TICKETS You knoW, enough is enough. I mean, I
RUN WITH A FAST CROWDIII 
LOST A TIMEX WATCH AT AIR FORCE PERSONALS thought w cte.ed this up froehman year. 
........................................... 
D women'• trick 1tart1 8fter breelt. SCOTT,I'M SORRY BUT IT WASN'T MY 
GAME.IF FOUND CALL PAUL AT 1139 Butfor those of you who1re a lidslow, let
South Clrollnellx For ..._ Stly tuned tor rnon detlllla. Get FAULT. I WAS FRAMED!!! WILL YOU 
me say that I'm PMrtcta, not:

I have one student ticket for sale. Cheep, PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CAll 234· payched for the CAN-All GAMES in EVER FORGIVE ME OR AT LEAST LET LOST; WHITE MEMBERS ONLY Pet, or
Cheep' Call Maria at 284·5534. 0363. 24 hour hotlinel!ree pregnancy test Ontario, in January '85!1 ME MAKE IT UP TO YOU? NANCY
JACKET. IF FOUND CALL STEVE 3527. Petty, or
available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 

LOST FRIDAY, OCT. 12, ROOM 101 Pucleduh, or
NEED 4 GA'S FOR S. CAROLINA. TO. BENDO Ia haYing a PARTY on FRIDAY DEAR MUMMA & PUPPA; WELCOME
HURlEY. Dot, or
GETHER IF POSSIBLE. CALL PAT AT SEXSEXSEX NIGHT. All FRIENDS Welcome. TO SOUTH BEND. NOW THAT YOU'VE Peebody,or
3055 BESIDES THAT I NEED 2 PENN ST. SEEN IT, LET'S GO HOME LOVE, THE 
•.OST: LEVI'S BLUE DENIM JACKET IN Twlnldea, or
' GA'S. IF YOU CAN SUPPLY EITHER, Penn State KID
································································ 
SOUTH DINING HALL (RIGHT!LEFT) TWMCy,or
MY PARENTS DON'T LOVE ME CALL JOHN D. 1641. Penn SUite DURING LUNCH ON 10/16. IF FOUND, 
ANYMORE!II PENN STATE! Mlnadatory CHUD ~ting 10/31/84 at Blnky,or 
PLEASE CALL DOT )3803 OR RETURN "When Doea The Aell Hitting
So I h1ve two Iouth ClroiiNI G.A.'1 for OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, All I 8\ler wanted were 3 G.A. ticketa to 1 6:86 Section 30 Zahm HaH
TO RACK IN SOH. THANKS! St8rt?"
..... CARRY OUT Tll3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE Penn Stile. 
or Pltrlck for thlt rn1ttw.

Cell Shelle .. 2810. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. If you have them, call Mary at 1333. Marjorie and Susie have a great break! II!
LOST:a red backpack in the SMC dining Thanks a lot.
Otl, by the way, whl..l have your an.n­
P&G

hall.lffound please call284·5430 Love,
tion, ATTENTION PETE LAMAY: THE STONYBURKS ARE Fish's sister's roommate 
IJultturned 21 on llondly,lfldl'mltlll THE COUNTDOWN HAS STARTED. HEREIIIII!11111111111 STEVE JACKSON • C.U. in October'!!
If anyone accidentally picked up a black 
looking for my prince. SOON WE WILL BE IN THE MIDST OF LOVE, DUCKIE 
girl's )llcket with "South Sicle ltalien" writ· 
If you're good-looking and avaifllble, COMPLETE DEBAUCH JUDY,JUDY ,JUDY AND RAZOR· ten on the back and "Carrie" on front, from 
gimme a call-who knows what could ON THE LOVELY GEORGETOWN RRRRRARR, SPAWDAWG AND KIM ZOIO:I'Ll FIXX YOU.PSYCHEO FOR
Chautauqua last Saturday ,please call The 8edtandl wek:ornel
happen? CAMPUS! THE FISH, DAN AND BUG, QUEEN THE FURS!LET'S TAKE THE WHOLE
Carrie 284·5172 the'RENTS
I'UDRINK TO THAT, BUDDY! KELLY AND EPPY THE CINDERIIAN DAY OFF!!HOW ABOUT A 
...............,............. . and
..LOIJ WfEK?STATE STREET AWAITS!! LUV,
Could whoever looK the white jacket and compllly
FOR SALE; 4 S.C. GA'S CALL MARY at 
W3 

green raincoat which were placed tempo­Have a great weekend
1363 TLF: MM-You make me HOT! Thanks lor WHY SHOULD I FUP???? ITS MY rarily in the woods near the University­
········ ················ the high times. Happy Sweetest Day & HOUSE mamage complex please return 
TWO S.C. GAl FOR SALE. CALL 277· B.D. Babe. I love you-until neltl time... them.Piease call Janet at 284·5426 or 0854 Yeah TIGERS! Hey Queen of lank! HAve a great day!
NOTRE DAME HOCKEY! 

Kirsten at 284-4389. Reymann's, Ehrenfried's, & other associ· YFF
NOTRE DAME HOCKEY!
ated people : 

DESPERATELY need 2 Penn State tile!!! DAVID ... JANE ..GREG NOTRE DAME HOCKEY! Will pay$$$$ call Bath 239-6328 !!!!WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME!!!! 
Welcome to Notre Dame I Betsy Sunday is almost here! How many miles is it from Chicago to Boston? It is
SO GLAD YOU DECIDED TO COME FOR SALE: 2 S.C. GA'1. C8H BIH x1305 THANKS DA. DAVE & BIG BETTY 
amazing how well things wor1t out. Re­JOHN PAUL: HAPPY 21ST!TAKE IT member give your all for the TEAM! • a
WANTED 

EASY!-X 
nonmemberam selling 4 S.C. GA's & 1 student Best HAPPY BIRTHDAY PAUL!!! IN HONOR 

Offer. CaH Mike at2047. oEsPEFiAreL.:v iiEied riiie'lofii·ih:AoeL:­
OF THIS OCCASION, WE'RE GOING
PHIA (VILLANOVA AREA) for Octobef JEFF (6'6" 230 lbs) I WANT YOU TO
COME & EXPERIENCE ONE "OiBest Gnome is a Dead Gnome" TO BRING BACK SOME FRESHMAN
break; wiH share e~epenses; call Miriam WANT ME. ????? 
of the AREA'S MOST EXCITING 2 SC GAs 4Sale-ChN;>-ROB 1739 SVENSUBOTAI YEAR MEMORIES .... GET YOUR LIPS4174FOOO&ORINK READY!!! PSYCHED? 
.. ............................................... . DON'T QUESTION MEHAGRE YOU'Ll
ESTABLISHMENTS I need many Penn State ticketa: 
MARGO KIRCHNER did not put this ad in ONLY GET CONFUSED
H.l.·s Old Town Saloon. 213 Front St.. I know you -I'll to get rid r:A them. Sell me ATIENTION: Margo Kirchner's birthday
herself. She really does have friends who 

Niles. Mich., is now accepting applies· GA's in quantity and don't be caught with is TOMMOAOW! A few priority gifts: '66
want to wish her a happy birthday!!! HEY SCRUFFY Have a nice bfeak! ·and
lions for W81t staff. Bartender, Hostesses. them when nobody wants them. That's BECKY IS COMING! Mustang convertible (any color)
Can you believe it? remember, if YOU make the roadtrip. din­
Doormen. & Bus Staff. Only experienced right, I'll pay. Call3811. BECKY IS COMING! a new bike (or steal back the old one) ner's on me. see you neltl week?!! MOneed apply. 684-n74 
BECKY IS COMING! phone answenng machine 
....................... ··········· ............ ········· 

···················· NEED 5 GA & 2 student tilt lor South AND 110M AND DAD TOOl yellow or white roses
HUNGRY? CALL FOR DELIVERY Happy 18th Birthday Brigid Burke Love
F ROOMMATES WANTED 2n·2367 Carolina, Chris 3055 good music
FROM THE YELLOW SUB 272-4453 Your Pals Any and all donations should be sent to
MO.TH 8·11 pm FA-SA Bpm-1 am 351 Badin. or just call 3814 to wish Margo 
RIDERS NEEDED FOR SALE: Two Iouth ClrolfNI GA'a. BOO-Who? Oh, Paul Baltler' Smile, bet· 
a Happy Btrthday. 

I need ridefs to St. LOUII or Central Ml• Believe It or Not ...
I'M tlke the beat olfer, even If It'I under ter yet bfeak a chair • I have confidence in lOUr! for October break. Call Maria at fKe vllue. Cell Mike 1t 23•5323. I actually ssw Father Hllburgh walking SAFE TO THRASHIII you, you·n do great on your test!l Good 284-5534. on the qued last Friday ! I LOVE YOU WANDA, LOVE WAUYl luck! Love Always Eunice 
................................................................ 
·•·•••···•··•·•••·•·•·•· " ...•..••., ...... \'''W'''..., •••••••. 

·--.......--....-~----~----~--------­
I 
i 
l The Observer Friday, October 19, 1984 -page 12 
I 
\ 
.I 
\ 
1 
~ 
j 
l 
Notre Dame Boxing Club Novices 
v..terct.y'• R-.utt. (fln818) 
Ughtwelght Tom Barens dec. Gary Chura Welterweight Tom N-ell dec. Steve Hillsman JuniOf·Middlewelght Pat Gee dec. Ted Gradel Middleweight Brendan Fitzpatrick dec. Bill Davin Ught·H..vyw.lght Mark Braz•nski dec Mike Heimle Crul-Weight Tom Hardart dec Denny Coleman H..vywelght Ray Seach dec Fred Ahlholm 
McNamara namedBosox new skipper 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -John McNamara, who rejected an offer to continue as manager of the California Angels, was named yesterday as manager of the Boston Red Sox. 
The Red Sox made the hiring offi­cial at a news conference 10 days after McNamara met with Haywood Sullivan, Boston's co-owner and chief operating officer, and General Manager Lou Gorman. 
McNamara reportedly will be paid S150,000 a year, the same salary Ralph Houk received for four seasons before he decided to retire three weeks ago. 
McNamara, 52, and the Red Sox executives met after he rejected a California offer to remain as field boss. He took over as pilot of the An· gels in 1983 after being fired by the Cincinnati Reds during the previous season. 
The friendship between McNamara and Sullivan goes back to their days with the Kansas City A's, then owned by Charlie Finley, in the early 1960s. 
When Don Zimmer was fired in 1980 season, McNamara was consid­ered a leading candidate for manager in Boston. However, Houk, bored by two years in retirement, wanted to return to baseball and signed with the Red Sox. 
McNamara, a journeyman catcher in the minor leagues, became a manager at the age of 26 in 1959. He has managed in the major leagues for 10 full seasons and parts of three others. He also has coached for the Oakland A's, the San Francisco Giants and the Angels. 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK · Sparky Anderson, who guided the Detroit Tigers to the best record in their history and a World Series championship, has been voted the American League's Manager of the Year by one point over Dick Howser of Kansas City, it was announeed yesterday by the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
Anderson received 13 of 28 first­

place votes and a total of 96 points. 
Howser, who led the Royals to the 
AL west title, got 11 first-place votes 
and finished with 95 point!.. 
Billy Gardner of Minnesota got the other four first-place votes and finished third with 48 points. The balloting was done by two writers from each AL city and scored on a 5-3-1 basis. The voting was con­ducted prior to the playoftS and World Series. 
Detroit rushed to a 35-5 start, the best in major-league history, and became only the third team in his­tory to be in first place every day of the season. The Tigers never were seriously challenged after their quick start and went to finish with a 

The Observer/Vic Guarino 
tournament. Fighters competed in seven different weight classes, from lightweight to heavyweight. Complete results are at left. 
Edges Howser by one point 
Anderson named top AL manager 

Free ToHgote Parties· Every Sal. 11 • 5 FREE Munchies Watch the game on our Satellite llg SCreen T.V. 
MR. D's 
1516 N. Ironwood South Bend 233-7747 

104-58 record in winning their first AL east title since 1972. 
Anderson became the first manager to win World Champion­ships in both leagues when his Tigers swept the Royals in the AL 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 
playoffs, then beat the San Diego Padres in five games in the World Se­ries. Anderson guided the Cincinnati Reds of the National League to World Championships in 1975 and 1976. 
Irish 

continuedfrompage 16 
would show the Irish that they can compete against the top teams in the Midwest and the nation. 
Furthermore, another big win, like the three prev10us victories this year, would give the team confi­dence heading into their final two meets. These are the Midwestern City Conference Meet on October 27, whose field includes defending champion Oral Roberts, and the NCAA District IV Meet on Novem­ber 10, the most competitive NCAA qualifying district in the country. 
The meet today is the most impor­tant to the Irish so far this year. A win would bring even more national recognition to a talented team, as well as allow Notre Dame to finish its home season on a winning note. 
NCAADiv.I Top 20 Poll 
NCAA DIVISION I MEN'S CROS5-COUNTRY 
1. Wisconsin (12)  297  
2. Iowa State (3)  287  
3. Clemson  2:70  
4. Arizona  253  
5. Arkansas  242  
6. West Virgmia  215  
7. Oregon  209  
8. Tennessee  202  
9. Virginia  179  
10. Illinois  162  
11. Providence  144  
12. BYU.  143  
13. Purdue  106  
14. Kansas State  84  
15. Oklahoma State  83  
16. Notre Dame  82  
17. Northwestern  52  
18. Penn State  45  
19. Michigan  37  
20. UCLA  28  

Chris' Ice Crea1n 
: 1723 So. Bend Ave.-next to Turtle Creek Apt. 
MADE THE OLD FASHIONED WAY GRAND OPENING  •:  
Saturday, 10 a.m.  -10 p.m•  
THIS FRIDAY, SATURDAY AND SUNDAY ONLY  
BUY ONE SUNDAE AND GET THE 2ND FOR HALF-PRICE!•  


Challenging opportunities are offered in the following areas of business management: 
• 
Finance 

• 
Contract Administration 

• 
Retail Merchandising 

• 
Food Service 

• 
Inventory Analysis and Purchasing 

• 
Transportation and Distribution 

• 
Fuel Planning and Analysis 

• 
Computer Systems 

• 
Operations Analysis 


Visit with representatives of the U.S. Navy Supply Corps to learn how your degree in accounting, economics, business administra­tion, computer science, or engineering can prepare you for an exciting business career. 
Presentation:  November 12  
O'Shaughnessy Hall  
Room 104  
7:00p.m.  
Interviews:  November 13  
Memorial Library  

The Observer Friday, October 19, 1984 -page 13 
Erin Smith credits Boutton for being very supportive of the whole team and for giving Smith the encourage· ment and confidence she needed as an incoming freshman. 
Boulton, a graduate of Holy Name High School 1n Ohio, where she earned the Athlete of the Year and Most Valuable Player awards along with being named MVP of the Cleveland Catholic Conference, re­members what it was like to make the transition from high school to college ball and has been trying to make it easier for the freshman. 
She noted that in high school, vol­leyball is more a central part of the player's life. At Saint Mary's, studies are more demanding, there is less fan support, there is traveling, and there are always other extra­curriculars one might be involved in. 
Boutton seems to have handled the student-athlete role rather well. The twenty-one year old accounting major carries a 3.4 grade-point average while serving as the col­lege's Athletic Commissioner. 
When looking at colleges, volley­ball did enter into her decision. 
"I wanted to go to a school in order to receive a quality education and have an opportunity to play," reflects Boutton. 
Saint Mary's does not give athletic scholarships, and Boutton sees the positive side ofthat situation. 
"You are playing out of your own choice," says Boutton, "and all the other girls are too, or they wouldn't be out there." 
Although she only stands 5-6, Boutton likes the middle blocker po­sition, despite the fact that it in­evitably puts her up against taller players on the other side of the net. 
"The middle blocker position is what I enjoy most about the game," says Boutton. "It's a challenge." 
Her coach also has confidence in her at this position. "She is not intimidated at all," says Goralski. 
Even though she is a versatile player in every aspect of the sport, namely, serving, setting, blocking and passing, Boutton feels hitting is the strongest point ofher game. And she won't find too many people to disagree with her, especially her op­ponents. 
Though she has rightly earned all of her achievements, Boutton is quick to point to all those who have been behind her. 
"Without the support ofmy family and friends I might not have had the opportunity to attend Saint Mary's and play volleyball," Boutton notes. "Their understanding of the time and committment it takes to be a stu­dent athlete has been great." 
Boutton is now looking forward to a good finish to the 1984 cam­paign. 'lbe Belles are gearing up for a key match against Marion after fall break and then are hoping for a suc­cessful showing in the District tournament. 
''I'm hoping the team really comes together in District," comments the 1983 all-district nominee and Saint Mary's MVP award winner. 

Although it's been a career of ad· justments, Boutton says she would do it all again because she has enjoyed it so much. 
''I'm glad I had the opportunity to play for four years," says Boutton. "It has taught me a lot about myself and has helped me to realize my fullest potential." 
Boutton sees that she won't have another chance to prove herselfath­letically, and is grateful for all Saint Mary's has done for her. 
"It's an experience that I would have never given up," says Boulton. "I love the game, the competition and knowing I'm in shape." 
The team has enjoyed her play just as much. 
HELP SAVE BABIES 
~ Support rht' 
"li'~!.Stl-Qf.Q~IT1~ 
, . ... 

Hagler set to fight Hamsho tonight in NY 
Associated Press 


NEW YORK -Marvelous Marvin 
Hagler will fight for the first time in 
Madison Square Garden, where 
most of the great middleweight 
champions have displayed their 
skills, when he defends against Mus­
tafa Hamsho tonight. 
The bout is scheduled for 1 5 rounds, but most boxing observers feel Hagler will win inside the dis­tance, as he did when he stopped Hamsho in the l 1 th round of a title defense Oct. 31, 1981, at Rosemont, Ill. 
If it should go the limit, at least one of the three judges making the decision will be a woman. 
John Branca, chairman ofthe New York State Athletic Commission, which is running the fight with the World Boxing Association, said it was possible Eva Shain and Carol Castellano of New York and Carol Polis of Philadelphia would judge 


The Observer/Vic Guarino
the fight. 
It is expected that one of the wo­The Saint Mary's Volleyball team bas received veteran leadership men will judge the middleweight this season from senior co-captain Ann Boutton, shown here fight and the other two will work the demonstrating her flair for net play in a recent Belles's victory. 

McCallum-Mannion bout. 
~ ~ 
~NICK & KENNY'S ! 
25c BEER t 

~  *SPECIALS*  ~  
~  ~  
~ -tc MONDAY .. ~ ...... PITCHERS $2.95 ~ ~TUESDAY ...... LITTLE KINGS 2/$1  ~ ~ ~ ~  
~ ~WEDNESDAY .......... IMPORTS $1  ~ ~  

:THURSDAY............... ~FRIDAY & SATURDAY ....... BANDS ~ : & ASSORTED SPECIALS : 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ (Formerly Nickie's) ~ ~ ~ 


OCTOBER 29, 1984 • 7:35 P.M. ATHLETIC & CONVOCATION CENTER 
ADDED 
rEA 'URE· Pre-Game Exhi~ition Matches featuring Area 
n I I • Youth and H1gh School Soccer Teams. 
Halftime "Kick for Trips" Contest, 
Win a Trip for 2 to Disney World 
HURRY! TICKETS ARE GOING FAST! 
Here's How to Order: 
* IN PERSON: 
At the Athletic Annex Notre Dame ACC Ticket Office 
Sea~~~~~i~e;~ ~~: 
Marquette Mall 

Robertson's: Downtown,Town &Country, Concord Mall
Elkhart Truth; Butterfly Records, Warsaw 
World Record, Goshen MuSic Magic. Benton Harbor J.R.'s Music Shop, LaPorte St. Joe Bank, Downtown 
* BY MAIL: 

Send all orders to: 
Sting Soccer Match, 
Ticket Ottice-ACC Notre Dame, IN 46556 Check, money order, or credit card 
be ( ·th · t. d t ) f 
num r WI explra 1011 a e or 
mail orders only. If self-addressed, stamJ)ed env~lope is not enclosed, your tickets w1ll be held at the Notre Dame ACC Box Office. 
Ticket Prices: Reserved $7.50; Children (12 &under) $2 discount per ticket PROCEEDS GO TO SPECIAL OLYMPICS STING HOTLINE: (219) 259-RUNS 
.. ... ... 

Boutton 
continuedfrom page 16 
fense into their play since the arrival ofGoralski. 
"He's a great coach to play for," adds Boutton, and he has taught me a lot about the game.". 
Goralski is pleased with Boutton's accomplishments also. 
"In the last few years she has im­proved a lot," says the Saint Mary's coach. "She is a really aggrressive player, who always tries extra hard." 
Being named one of this year's co­captains along with senior Molly Baker, has brought on additional re­sponsibility for the Brecksville, Ohio native. 
"As captain I try to bring the players to work as a team," says Boutton. "Unlike years past there is no one player that stands out more than anyone else. All the players have to be strong at every position." 
"She is definitely a team leader," says Goralski. "The girls looked up to her through the year and she has done a great job in motivation. When things get down out on the court she keeps pushing herself and her teammates to play harder." 
Freshman Anne Williard agrees with Goralski's observation. "She's a big motivator and a great player," says Williard. Alo!lg with Williard, freshm.-.n 
Consultant to Multinational Firms 
seek qualified individuals with language and area expertise on foreign markets. Our clients pref~r foreign nationals with advanced degrees from American universities. Visa restrictions may not apply for some of the projects. Part-time and full­time assignments available. Fee paid. 
Send resume and request for information to: 
SWENSON, CRAWFORD & PAINE 
Executive Search Division 
BoxA3629 
Chicago, IL 60690 ( 
No phone calls please. 
­

BILLY S<S)UIEt:< 
with special guest 
RATT 

Tuesday, November 6 7:30p.m. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
All SEATS RESERVED S12" and Sll'" 
TICKETS AVAILABlE AT THE A C C BOX OffiCE. SEARS. ROBERTSONS. ELKHART TRUTH. J R ·s MUSIC SHOP. Sl JOSEPH"S BANK (MAIN OFFICE). WORLD RECORD (GOSHEN). MUSIC MAGIC (BENTON HAR!IOR). AND kARMA RECORDS (FT WAYNE) 


The Observer Friday, October 19, 1984 -page 14 
Plays four conference matches 
Volleyball team plans busy break 

By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
Everyone is looking forward to next week as a time to sit back, relax amd forget the pressures of Notre Dame life -everyone except the Notre Dame volleyball team. 
Starting tommorow night, the Irish travel to Butler University for the first offour important North Star Conference matches slated for Oc­tober Break. On Tuesday, Notre Dame visits Evansville, Ind., to face an aggressive team from the Univer­sity of Evansville. Then the Irish return home to host the University of Dayton and Xavier University in the main arena of the ACC over the weekend. 
"It's going to be a long weekend for us, and we'll have to play one match at a time," says Assistant Coach Renee DeGraff. "We can't ex­pect to walk over any of these teams because they're all good." 
Notre Dame's 3-1 conference record gives the team a strong foot­hold in the conference, but the Irish must win all of next week's matches if they want to keep their chances for top seeding in November's Con­ference Championship Tournament alive. 
"The girls are ready for next 
USFL finds evidence of NFL scandal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The lawyer for the United States Football League, which has filed a SI.32 billion antitrust suit against the rival Na­tional Football League, said yester­day it has evidence of a secret NFL committee set up to put the USFL out ofbusiness. 
The charge, contained in section 40 of the USFL's 39-page complaint against the NFL, was expanded upon during a news conference by Roy Cohn, who filed the suit on behalfof the league Wednesday in federal coun in New York City. 
It alleges that the NFL formed a committee ofclub owners and other officers "to recommend means ofin­hibiting competition by the USFL as a competitive league in major league professional football." 
Cohn didn't specify who was on the NFL committee or what exactly it had done to inhibit competition by the USFL. but he did intimate his knowledge came from inside infor­mation. "Obviously, the information wa.o; 

j'; i supplied to us and obviously, when 
1: they created this USFL committee, 
,.
·.-they did not create it for the purpose of going over the airwaves or into newsprint," he said. "They didn't expect anybody to know about it. We allege it was done in a clandestine manner." 
NFL spokesman Joe Browne denied that any such committee exists. He said that after the league meetings in Hawaii last March, a long-range planning committee was 

'\ formed to "deal with the many is­sues that confront us down the road." 
i! 
. The members of that committee include the presidents of the two conferences -wellington Mara, owner of the New York Giants and Lamar Hunt, owner of the Kansas City Chiefs. The other members are Mike McCaskey, president of the 

: Chicago Bears and three general managers -Russ Thomas of the Detroit Lions, Bobby Beathard ofthe Washington Redskins and Mike Lynn of the Minnesota Vikings. 
NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle, named as a defendant, called the suit "baseless"·and "transparent."
·-····------------­

week," . says DeGraff. "lbey feel they've got to get the conference title and they know what to do to get it." 
DeGraff believes the Irish will play to their potential and combine the finesse displayed in previous matches. 
"We've plateaued since Saint Francis (of lllinois) and we've been unable to improve," DeGraff noted. ""'e're up for the conference matches but not others. We need to strike a balance." 
On Wednesday, the Irish saw their season record slip to 7-9 after drop­ping their second match of the season to the Purdue Boikrmakers, I 5-3, I 5-7, and I 5-6. The team was hoping to avenge an embarrassing I 5-12, I S-6, 1 5-8 loss to the Boiler­makers in the season opener. 
"It's disappointing because we could have t_aken them in five games if we'd put it all together," says Deuraff. "We scored more against them in the season opener." 
Mental errors marred Notre Dame's performance on Wednes­day, preventing the team from playing to its ability. Although the Boilermakers are a tall squad, they lack speed and Notre · Dame's tenativeness at the net kept the Boilermakers on the offensive. 
Now Playing at a Theatre Near You. 
Notre Dame's defense did not react 
effectively to Purdue's offensive 
push. 

The Irish jumped out to a 3-0 lead against the Boilermakers in the first game, but NO[re Dame's concentra­tion was broken when an Irish player was caught off the court during a crucial play. The Irish failed to recapture its early momentum and fell to Purdue, 15-3. 
Notre Dame was down 13-4 during the third game when the team started to rebound. Two offi­cial time-outs helped the Irish regain their concentration and the team capitalized on the delays to win two more points. 
"They were good delays," said DeGraff. "But you can't start rallying that late. It should have come a lot sooner." 
Midterms were a crucial factor in Wednesday's match and handi­capped the Irish against the nationally-ranked Boilermakers. 
Everything was there except the concentration," said DeGraff. "They forgot to close the books before they walked onto the court." 
With midterms and other campus distractions removed next week, the Irish should he able to devote all of their energy to the week's confer­ence matches. 
She will become their most deadly weapon. 
As long as they can make her fall in love. 
DIANE KEATON 
·rHE 

LITTLE 
DRUMMER 
GIRl. 

AGEORGE ROY Hill FILM DIANE KEATON in JOHN LE CARRE'S "THE LITTLE DRUMMER GIRL" YORGO VOYAGIS KLAUS KINSKI Music by DAVE GRUSIN Executive Prod•Jcer PATRICK KELLEY Sueenploy by LORING MANDEL Based on the novel by JOHN LE CARRE Produced by ROBERT L. CRAWFORD Directed by GEORGE ROY Hill 
I ROM WillNER .OS :.A.:~E:" C~Q·~~.~~~TIQNS CO..-PANY
0 ~ 




------------~-~-~-~-~-~--~------------------------------~----~-·~·~·~·~····~~--·~·~·~·r·~-~~·~·~·~·~~~~----._----~~~~~_,~,_~----~ 

~4CJttelltaL~-----------------------------------------F·r-id_a_y,_o_c_t_o_b_er
__19_,_1_9_8_4_-__P_a_ge---15 
Doonesbury 



Psychochicken 

The Daily Cross-word 
ACROSS 38 Grand -Opry 71 Adhesive 13 Jalopy 1 Torment 39 N.C.college ingredient 18 Additamentary 5 Crazy Horse 40 Validation 72 SpecJral. 
23 "Paradisewas one 42 Took a card 
is where-" 

10 Euclid's field DOWN 14 Fr. river 43 Velvet feature 1 Certain insect 25 Sign 44 Shroud 27 Ring of color
15 Dip 2 Take for­45 Buds on spuds (bamboozle)16 -Nagy (former 3 Metal bar 29 "The -blade 
46 Sheepskin went snicker-
Hung. premier) 4 Social
50 Nimbus snack!"
17 Nonsense: var. function
52 Pronoun in 31 Robt.­
19 Capital of Dixie 32 Evangel

Western Samoa 5·Nonsense 
54 Maturetj 33 Minister to 
20 Tokyo once 6 -·kiri
58 Log 21 Colorful stone 60 Metrical foot 7 Stars 34 Jai­22 Miter wearer 62 Full of: suff. 8 Pipe joint 35 Nonsense 24 Comeback 63 Like-of 9 Slight 37 Common in 
26 Cousin of bricks Hawaii 

kielbasa 64 Nonsense 10 Vapor 41 Nonsense 28 Griffin of TV 67 Viva-11 Nonsense 30 Rhine town 68 Gloomy one 42 Give a hand 
69 Plane of old 12 Small musical 47 Nutty: var.
33 Record 

36 T op·notch 70 Smudged group 48 "-Town" 
WEU, LJK£ Mf£T!NG WITH 
~. MIKE, I MAYNaT 86 Vt:RY 
POUT/CAL, Bl.fTI /JO KNW 7HATA

OH, MICHAEL.. JACK.50N. OI!J 
liJTOF P&OP!.£, /NCLUOING BlACKS,

YeAH? CARTER &VER MttT WITH 
L./K£ MICHA&l. JACl<SON? N01 
Tlf/NK THAT IA/AL-75f< MONPAI£ HA'3 

/AIHAF 010 miNtiJY? \ 
8f£N A 61(13AT PR&51PENT' 

Octavio 
The Far Side 



Garry Trudeau 


Gary Larson 


The balloon was his enemy. 
49 Start of a 57 Overgrown Flaubert title 58 Sitarist 51 Confederate Shankar 
soldiers 59 Thames town 53 Fra -Lippi 61 Author Haley 55 Jeweler's glass 65 Soft drink 56 Wilde or Levant 66 Enzyme suffix 
Yesterday's Solution 

_Campus . 
Friday, Oct. 19 

•3 
p.m.. Cross Country, Indiana Intercollegiate, Burke Golf Course. 

•3:25 
p.m.-Physics Seminar, "Expitaxial Growth & Electronic Structure of Au Films as Studies by Electronic Reflection Spectroscopy," Dr. R. Jak· Ievie , Ford Motor Company. 

•3:30 
p.m. • Tennis, NO Men·B Team vs. St. Ambrose, Courtney Courts. 


Saturday, Oct. 20 

•8 a.m.. 3 p.m. -Graduate Mangement Admis­sions Test , Engineering Auditorium. 
-
•11 :20 a.m. EST. Football, South Carolina at Notre 
Dame, 
Sunday, Oct. 21 

•1 . 4 p.m. . Opening An Exhibition , Renaissance Drawings from the Ambrosiana in the Print , Snite Museum ofArt. 
TV Tonight ·. 
6:00p.m. 
6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 10:30p.m. 
ll:OOp.m. 

16 
22 28 16 22 16 
22 
28 28 22 28 34 34 
22 
28 34 16 
22 
28 16 
22 
28 34 28 34 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 MyAySyH Family Feud Movie . V: The Final Battle ( Pt Ill) Dukes of Hazzard Benson Webster Dallas Hawaiian Heat Washington Week in Review Wall Street Week Falcon Crest Matt Houston The Dining Room NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Tonight Show Movie · Somebody Killed Her Hus· band ABC News Nightline The Last of the One Night Stands Love Connection Movie · Adventures of Robin Hood 


© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 10/19/84 All Rights Reserved 


! ,. 
'' 

By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 

1 i; 

The undefeated Notre Dame cross-country team faces its toug­hest competition ofthe year when in hosts the Indiana Intercollegiate Meet today at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. The five-mile race begins at 4:00P.M. 
Notre Dame is ranked 16th in the country by the national poll ofcross­country coaches. The Irish gained this national recognition on the basis of their convincing wins this year: a season-opening five-team meet, whose field included 17th­ranked Northwestern, the National Catholic Meet, and the prestigious Notre Dame Invitational, over 19th­ranked Mit:higan. 
The Irish will have to continue to run well in order to defeat the 22 

Irish cross-country team competes in Indiana Intercollegiate today 
other teams entered in the meet The main challengers to Notre Dame, which has not won this meet since 1967, will come from Purdue and Indiana. 
Purdue is ranked 13th in the coaches' poll. The Boilermakers would like to continue their dominance in the Indiana State Meet, which they have won the last three years. 
According to Irish head coach Joe Piane, Purdue will bring anotherfine team this year to defend their title. 
"They are a very good team," says 
Piane. "They are led byJim Nagle, an excellent runner from South Bend, and Chris Novak, who is also a fine runner." 
Indiana could also providct stiff competition for the Irish. While they are not ranked in the national polls, 
ND soccer team to play four games over break 

they are expected to have a strong team. "Indiana has a dynamite squad," Piane says. "Terry Brahn has run a 
3:54 mile, a Big Ten record. Also, they have good runners in James Murphy and Charles Marsala. Over­all they have a fine team." 
While Notre Dame is running against some very good teams, they have plenty of talent of their own. The seven runners who will com­pete today are seniors Bill Courtney, Jim Tyler, Tim Cannon, and Ed Wil­lenbrink, junior John Magill, sopho­more Mike Collins, and freshman Dan Garrett. All seven runners have run consistently fine races, which is the key to a nationally-competitive team. 
"Everyone is running extremely well," says Piane. " 'lbey run as com­petitively as any group hao; run at Notre Dame since I've been here (eight years). They're doing a great job and running with a lot of pride right now." 
Today's meet is important to the Irish for several reasons. To date, they have convincingly defeated Senior Tim Cannon, one of the leading runners for the Notre two nationally-ranked teams, Mic­Dame cross-country team this season, will lead the 16th-ranked higan and Northwestern. A win, es­Irish into action this afternoon in theIndiana Intercollegiate Meet pedally over a tough Purdue team, at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Nick Schrantz previews the 
meet in his ~tory at left. 
see IRISH, page 12 
Irish field hockey team plays host to Western Michigan after 1-0 win 


f 

lne Obo>crver/Chaitanya Panchal 
junior goalie Patti Gallagher tumed in a shutout against Mic­higan Wednesday afternoon, as the Notre Damefield hockey team edged the Wolverines, 1-0, in Ann Arbor, on Corinne DiGiacomo's unassistedgoal. The 7-4-Jirish will take on Western Michigan this afternoon in a Parents' Day game. Kevin Herbert recaps the Mic­higan game andpreviews today's game in his story at left. 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame field hockey team continued its winning ways with a 1-0 victory over Michigan in Ann Arbor Wednesday after­noon. 
The Irish dominated the first half, keeping play on the \l'ol­verine side ofthe field for all but a few minutes of the thirty-five minute period. The Irish were unable to score, however. 
"I did not know what to tell my team at halftime," said NO coach Jill Lindenfeld. "We had done everything right except score." 
Less than ten minutes into the second half the Irish finally put the ball in the net, as sophomore Corinne DiGiacomo scored an unassisted goal to put Notre Dame ahead 1-0. The Wolverines proceeded to dominate the rest of the game, but thanks to the su­perb defense of goalie Patti Gal­lagher and junior defender Christina Weinman, Michigan was unable to score despite its numerous opportunities. 
Lindenfeld attributed the Irish victory to superior defense. 
"Our defense played an out­standing game," said the Irish coach. "We denied them the hall and executed our pao;ses per­fectly." 
Notre Dame will take a 7-4-1 record onto Cartier field this af­ternoon against Western Mic­higan, with game time set for 
4:00. The last time the two teams met the Irish were victorious in Michigan by the score of4-1. 
Lindenfeld would like to play as many players as possible, be­cause today is Parents' Day. She is confident about the game at Car­tier, noting that the Irish are 2-0­1 on artificial turf. Lindenfeld attributes this success to the op­portunities afforded them by the football coaching staffto practice on the artificial surface. 
'\ 
I 
)} 
. , 
f ·'· 
)' 
By PHIL WOLF 
AssistantSports Editor 
The Notre Dame soccer team, hoping to rebound from a disap­pointing loss Wednesday to Akron, will play four games over break 
The Irish will take their 10-4-2 record on the road for three games before returning home for one game. 
lbe competiton next week is not expected to be nearly as tough as that which the Irish have faced in the last couple of weeks, according to Notre Dame Head Coach Dennis Grace. llle Irish are coming off games against nationally ranked teams, and none of the teams they will face next week is ranked. 
Notre Dame will begin its play 
during break this Sunday at Ken­
tucky. Fans in the area may come out 
to watch the game at 2 p.m. 
The Irish will be trying for their 
third consecutive win over Ken­
tucky, which has a 3-7-1 record. 
After returning home for two 
day's, the Irish will be back on the 
highway Wednesday, heading for 
Madison, Wis., to play the Wisconsin Badgers. The game is scheduled to begin at 7:30p.m. 

The only meeting between the two teams wao; in 1981, when they tied, 2-2. This year, the Badgers could again keep the game close. 
The Badgers are 6-6-1 this season, and they recently beat Evansville, which was ranked second in the Mideast at the time. In its most recent action, Wisconsin lost to Mar­quette, number five in the region, Wednesday night, S-3 . 
The Badgers rely on the scoring of Todd Zoschke to lead the offense. Zoschke has 12 goals and four assists this year. Joel Adams is second on the Wisconsin scoring list with five goals and two assists. 
The Badgers' defense is anchored ­by goalkeeper Gerald Averill, who has allowed 1 9 goals in his 1 1 games for a goals-against-average of 1.73. 
On Friday night, the Irish will play for the first time ever at Wisconsin­Platteville. Kickoff is scheduled for 7:30p.m. for that contest. Platteville has a 7-4 record this season. 
I' :! Boutton stays constant· 
'1 
JJ 
as SMC team changes 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Sports Writer 

J The Saint Mary's volleyball team has undergone quite a few changes'I in the past four years. There is only one member of this year's team who '· has been there through all activity ­senior co-captain Ann Boutton. "Each year I played with an en­tirely different group of girls," says the four-year veteran. She points out that due to student teaching, nur­sing, and foreign studies programs some student athletes found it impossible to make the committ­! ment necessary to remain on the team. Boutton therefore has had to
Jl 
continually make adjustments from 

ii'~ 1.1 one level of play to another. She has nothing bul praise for this year's 
·. squad, however. 
' "This year's team is by far the best as far ao; talent and attitude i!! con­cerned," says Boutton. "I have a great deal of respect for all the players." 
Not only does Boutton have respect for her teammates but she also has a great deal ofconfidence in them, and is secure in the knowl­edge that any player will come through when ~ailed upon to do the joh in any situation. 

Boutton's teammates have the same respect for her. 
"She hao; been a positive leader both this year and last year, in get­ting everybody motivated in all ways," says sophomore Ann Brown. 
Another major change which the volleyball program has encountered in the past two years is a turnover in head coaches which has brought about the introduction of a new brand of volleyball. Boutton feels with current coach Brian Goralski at the helm the overall program has benefited greatly. 
"We work a lot harder and have a better time doing it," says the senior. 
She adds that Goralski has given the team some valuable technical knowledge of the game. lbe team has also instituted the multiple of-
see BOUTION, page 13 



