
Photo contest -page 6 

VOl. XIX, NO. 54 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1984 

College of A & L
·' 

granted $700,000 
..;., 
. .# 
._,.,• -.. .::. 
"" 
... ..;, 
......
/.. 
,.. 
' 
,... 
'Jbe Obscrver/U:v Chapelsky 

A Saturday Brunch was one ofthe many events Carol Burke, Anne Marie Kollman, her mother, durlnR Saint Mary's junior Mother's Weekend Carita Kollman and Trish Gullo werejustafew of held last weekend. Pictured left to right: (left), the more than 550 participants. Story below. 
Saint Mary's Jr. Mom's Weekend attracts more than 550 to campus 
By CATIIYANN REYNOLDS 
News Staff 
More than 5'50 Saint Mary's 
juniors and their mothers partlci· 
pated in last weekend's junior 
Mother's Weekend at the College. 
Chairman of the weekend, Liz 
Zimmer, said the weekend offered a 
'rounded type program that was to 
cncompa.~s all a.~pects ofSaint Mary's 
life. lhe main emphasis was to get 
rc·aquainted with our mothers and 
each other." 
lhe friday events included the Shakespeare play The Two Gentlemen of Verona and the per· fomance of Shenanigans. Melissa Sagun, a Saint Mary's junior, said Shenanigans wa.o; "very entertain· lng...they made you want to get up and dance." 
Shenanigans' repertoire included "Bells of St. Mary's" and "A Chorus Line." 
After the late night, mothers and 
daughters arose and "worked out" in 
the Angela Athletic Facility before 
attending a brunch at the Haggar 
College Center. 
Scheduled talks on Saturday were well attended. The talks focused on issues relevant to the lives ofcareer and family oriented women. Sharol Parish, a speech consultant from New York, spoke of "ways to com· municatc within your personal, so­cial, and career life," in her speech, 
"Speak As IfYour Career Depended Onlt." 
The next speaker was Sister Elena Malits who spoke on the "Problems and Possibilities of Women in Today's Church." 
Saturday evening's dinner and fas­hion show was at the Century Cen· ter. A three-course meal was served. Hudson's fashions were modeled, featuring pajama wear, casual city outfits, classics, sleek suits and dresses for for the nighttime. Hud­son models and Saint Mary's stu­dents modeled the fashions. A student model, Anne McCarthy, said, "the girls involved had a great time." 
Despite the schedule of events there was still time for mothers to really enjoy "one-on-one interaction with their daughters," said Zimmer. Some daughters reportedly took their mothers to the bars in order to include them in the student night life. 
Sunday's events included a special Mass at the Church of Loretto that was followed by a brunch. 
Lynda Dowling, another Saint Mary's junior, said the junior Mother's Weekend was an overall success because, "this year's class Is generally receptive to Saint Mary's functions." 
"My mother thought it was a good weekend because It gave her a chance to.be with me and not my whole family," said Anne McCarthy, another junior. 
ByJOHN WALTERS 
News Staff 
The College ofArts and Letters of 
Notre Dame has recently received 
two grants toralling $700,000. 
Nathan Hatch, associate dean of 
the College of Arts and Letters, 
describes one of the grants, from the 
Andrew Mellon Foundation, as "the 
largest gift ever " for the college. 
The Andrew Mellon Foundation is a large philanthropic institute based in New York. Its grant is valued at S500,000 and will be directed toward the new Institute for Schol· arship in the Uberal Arts. 
The National Endowment for the Humanities also provided the col­lege with a grant of approximately fi200,000 over a three-year period for its plan to iinprove the college's interdisciplinary core course, "Ideas, Values, and Images." 
Half of the 1500,000 sum of the Mellon grant will go toward funding faculty development over the next three years, and the remaining S250,000 will be placed into an interest-earning endowment for the Institute for Scholarship In the Liberal Arts. 
Furthermore, the University must match the gift three-to-one, thereby establishing a S1,000,000 financial base for the one year old institute. 
"This large grant will have an im­mediate and beneficial impact on the College of Arts and Letters. By enabling new research support for the college faculty, it will invigorate scholarship in the liberal arts at Notre Dame," said University Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
The Institute for Scholarship was established in December 1983, a product of the new administration of the college headed by Dean Mi· chael Loux. Loux and his associates felt that the college was In need of a definitive program designed to en· hance research support for college. 
The Institute is under the guid· ance ofHatch. He said, "Notre Dame wants to build the best faculty possi· ble and to achieve that we must show the faculty that we support them in their needs." 
Hatch cited some examples ofthis support as research grants for fac­ulty members, time off to research, stipends for attending summer semi· nars designed to improve courses, and programs that bring distin­guished visiting scholars to campus. 
The college has already received a S50,000 grant from Exxon to bring seven distinguished scholars to visit Notre Dame. This program Is cur­rently in progress. 
This fall Hatch appointed Charles 
A. Geoffrion as faculty research con­sultant. Geoffrion's task Is to dis· cover the Individual needs of the faculty and then search for the available external funding that will allow the faculty to meet these needs. 
Geoffrion has already spoken to sixty faculty members this semester in hopes of supporting their Inter· ests. 
The S200,000 NEH grant will fund the college's three-year pro­gram aimed at Improving the core course. The evolution of the course can be traced back to 1954, when University President Father Theodore Hesburgh instituted a core course for the College of Arts and Letters. 
Entitled, "Collegiate Seminar," the course introduced A&L students to literary masterpieces. However, in the late sixties and early seventies both students and faculty desired a 
see GRANTS page 4 


'Ultimate' governing body of University to meet on Friday 
Editor's note: The following is tbe first In a series offive articles ex· amlnlng the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. The series wtll concentrate on who makes up the Board and what its responsibtltties Include. 
By MARK POlTER 
Assistant News Edltctr 
'Jhe Board of Trustees of the Uni· vcrsity of Notre Dame which meets this Friday for their annual fall meeting, determines all major policies for the University and has final approval on all major plans con­cerning the University, said Sister Miriam jones, assistant provost. 
'lhe board was formed in 1967 when the Congregation of the Holy Cross transferred the governance of the University over to the board. Made up of predominantly lay people, the board has 49 members, and includes three officers of the University. Currently there are eight Holy Cross priests on the board. 
"The board ha.~ the ongoing and ultimate responsibility for the Uni­versity," said jones. "Prior to 1967 there wao; another kind ofboard that was like a board of advisors. They didn't have the power that the cur­rent board does. The Holy Cross congregation had the power then." 
"lhe creation of the board was part of an expansion meant to fur­ther both expertise and excellence in running the University," said jones. "The board brings a breadth and depth of expertise to the job. It was part of the move after Vatican II to give the laity more responsibility in the school." 
lbe board is responsible for set· ting major policies, while the admin­Istration is responsible for the daily implementation of those policies, according to Father David Tyson, vice president for Student Affairs. 
"The board represents the public," Tyson said. The board's role is primarily to govern policy, not the day-to-day running ofthe University, which is left to the administration, said Tyson. lhe board members are not paid for any of their work in con­nection with the board. 
The entire board meets twice a year, but the Executive Committee of the board meets more often as necessary. 
"The officers of the administra· tion arc elected by the board," said Tyson. The board also reviews those officers. 
"The agenda for board meetings is drawn up by James W. Frick in con­sultation with Father Hesburgh and Dr. Carney," said james Murphy, the associate vice president for Univer­sity Relations. 
Frick, who is a board member, is also an assistant to the University president. Carney, the current chair­man of the board, has been a mem­ber of the board since its inception in 1967. 
The Notre Dame board, unlike Saint Mary's and many other col­leges and universities, does not have a student as a member. 
Board of Trustees series 
"There are a number of reasons why there Is not a student on the Boarq of Trustees," said Carney. "One reason is that the board is not a group made up of people who need to protect any particular interest of their own, their only Interest is to help the University." Carney said he thinks a student would have an inter­est to protect and so could lose his impartiality in making judgments. 
Carney continued that he believes that perhaps the most important rea· son a student is not on the board is 
that they would not be effective in 
representing students' Interests 
there. 
He said, "If a student was on the 
board he would lose his effective­
ness because of the need for con­
fidentiality on many issues that the 
board deals with." Because any stu· 
dent who sat on the board would be 
limited as to what he or she could 
discuss with fellow students about 
the meetings, he feels that the stu­
dent would not be effective. 
He cited the experience ofhaving 
a student on the committee that 
drew up the recommendations on 
the alcohol policy last year as an ex· 
ample of how little influence a stu­
dent can have on a committee that 
he or she is on. 
Carney also said that a student's influence on the board would be limited by the fact that the student would only have one vote like the rest ofthe board members. 

"It is more effective for the stu­dents to work with the Student Af· fairs Committee," said Carney. 
Tyson said, "I don't know why there Is not a student on the Board, but I suspect it was decided In 1967, when the board was set up, to not include a student on the board." 
'lbe lack ofa student on the board is not a concern of his office, said Tyson, because, "I think Student Af· fairs represents the students very well. The student government has heavy input on the Student Affairs Committee, but I would be con­cerned if they didn't. I suspect that the students arc more effective this way," he said. 
The board meetings are closed to the public, but information about the meetings is releao;ed afterward. These releases have been criticized for being too general and uni­nformative. 

Murphy said, "I do the minutes of the meetings and then I prepare a summary for release from them. The releases are without detail because the board meetings aren't public meetings." He described the board meetings as "private, just like a cor­porate board meeting." It Is "not un· usual" for the meetings ofgoverning boards ofuniversities to be closed to the public, he said. 
Carney said, "Anything sub­stantive that happens In a meeting Is released." But he added that some Information is not released "to prevent hurting future plans; this Is 
see BOARD page 4 

--------~ 
The Observer Monday, November 12, 1984 -page 2 


In 8 ief 

A 1981 :graduate of Notre Dame, Terence Keeley, has been elected a trustee of the University. Keeley is a financial analyst for Paine Webber and Company, Inc., in New York. He is a former administrative assistant to Director ofthe Office ofManagement and Budget David A. Stockman and a res\:arch consultant to President Reagan's Counc·il of Economic Advisors. Keeley is also a member of the National Association of Business Economists and an economic consultant to OXFAM, an international relief organization. He is the second oftwo trustees appointed following a recent board decision to create two new positions to befilled by alumni under 30 years old for one three-y(·ar term. The board previously named Kathleen Sul­livan, a 1978 graduate who is an assistant professor ofbiology at the University of Miami, Coral Gables, Fla. -The Observer 
Abellig4~rent goatheld Vera Miles oflndianapolis and her four-year-old granddaughter inside Miles' home for approxi­mately an hour Friday. "It was bigger than any dog," said Marion County Sheriffs DeputyJames Curry, who rescued the pair. 
The cantankerous nanny stood approximately three feet high with horns and was transferred to the Municipal Dog Pound. -AP 
Federal agentsarrested 12 peopte and seized s,ooo gal­lons of bootleg mm, which was camouflaged as a shipment oftropi­cal food and smuggled into the United States from the Dominican Republic. 
Two Miami m<:n were caught Friday with a rented truck full of little-known "Ron Sibona" rum in non-standard bottles marked with unauthorized labels, said Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms agent Ron Ohlzen. Ten other men were arrested in New York City earlier last week in connection with the bootlegging, Ohlzen said. -AP 
About 40 families were evacuated for several hours after 10 cars of a Seaboard freight train derailed at a crossing and a car carrying explosive methanol overturned and burst into flame near Allenton,N.C, officials said. 
No injuries weJ-e reported in the Saturday morning incident. Firefighters had doused the flames and residents were allowed to return to their houses by late afternoon, authorities said. 
The cause of 1:he derailment was under investigation, said Seaboard spokesman Mark Sullivan. -AP 
Of lnt rest 

Former Chicago MayorJane Byrne will 
speak at 7 tonight in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's on "Women in Lead­ership." There will be a reception in Haggar College Center Parlor immediately following the lecture. The lecture is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
AIESEC summers abroadwilt be the subject of the Association Intt·rnational des Etudients Scientifique et Commer­cial meeting tonight at 7 in room 122 Hayes-Healy Center. -The Observer 

Weath r 
Partly cloudytoday. High in the lower 40s. Clear tonight. Low in the upper 20s. Sunny and warmer tomorrow with a high around 50. -AP 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and Design Editor ................................ Troy Illig on home fo<?tbaU Saturdays, except Design Assistant .................. Andi Schnuck during exam and vacation periods. The Typesetters ..................Cathyann Reynolds Observer is published by th" students of News Editor ............................ )ohn MenneU the University of Notre Dame and Saint Copy Editor ................................. Frank Llpo Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Sports Copy Editor .............. Mark Ramirez purcha.•ed for S30 per year ( S20 per se· VIewpoint Layout ...................Joe Murphy mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Viewpoint Copy Editor......... Paul Cimino Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Features Layout ................ Sarah Hamilton 
The Observer is a member of The ND Day Editor ........................... Katy Doyle Associated Press. All re.production Photographer ........................ Lev Chapelski rights are reserved. 



Dry Driving Club support shows conce~n about drunk driving 
Last year, one ofthe most common arguments against the highly unpopular new alcohol policy usually ran something like this: the policy will cause a mass migra­tion of students to parties and bars off-campus every weekend, students will drink themselves silly and then attempt to either walk home through unsafe neighbor­hoods or drive drunk, and there will be an unprece­dented number of tragic accidents and deaths. Obviously, the University is more concerned with its financial liability (it can be held responsible when stu­dents cause accidents after drinking on campus) than with students' well-being. If the administration really cared, it would anticipate that the new rules will be much more dangerous than the old. 
Now the policy has nearly completed its first semes­ter. And although there have not been the number of drinking-related collisions that many expected, there have been at least three serious accidents involving Notre Dame students and alcohol, which may not have occurred if there had been happy hours closer to home. 
Whether or not accidents are indirectly related to the alcohol policy is unimpor­tant in the face of the sl,lffer­ing they cause. Almost everyone has been or knows someone who has been in­volved in a drinking-related accident, but in spite of this, the statistics remain stagger­ing: approximately 25,000 deaths result from alcohol­related traffic accidents each, year. In the United 
States, drunk driving is the establishments that partici­

the leading cause of death among persons under the ageof24. 
Students need to show they really are as concerned about the problem as they sounded last year. The problem cannot be passed off as the fault of a selfish administration and blamed on an uncaring alcohol policy -it must be dealt with con­cretely. And now there is a positive project toward which anti-drunk driving efforts can be directed: the new Dry Driving Club, founded by Don Todd and offi­cially approved by the Student Senate at last week's meeting. 
The idea ofthe club was taken from a similar program at Marquette University, whiCh so far has been very suc­cessful after beginning only this year. 
In the program, a student can go to any participating restaurant or bar and receive free coffee or soda in ex­change for agreeing to refrain from alcohol in order to drive others in his group home. This borrows from the custom long used in Sweden and other European countries where members of any group offriends that go out regularly to bars take turns "staying dry" for a 
From Classroom 
To 

Boardroom in 
CLASSIC STYLE 
New Wool Blend 
***Blazers*** 
SIZES8-18 
Mary Healy 
Features Editor 


Inside Monday 
night in order to drive home. The Dry Driving Club should be even more effective, because it provides in­centive in terms of free drinks for the driver, and be­cause it can eventually become a familiar and respected organization. 
The bars, in order to participate, must pay a fee of S85 to help the club cover promotional expenses. But the value of contributing to the community should more than make up for that small sum. 
The club will help foster the mentality that has been so slow to arise in the United States, and that has only recently begun to be ac­cepted as a result ofMothers Against Drunk Driving, Stu­dents Against Drunk Driving, and new, stricter laws: namely that drunk driving is not "cool," and that reasonable, sensible, and humane people just do not drive drunk. 
The club will also in­crease the sense ofcoopera­tion in dealing with an often neglected problem. And the 
pate may well find an added benefit of increased patronization from students who figure that free soda 

plus the possibility of saving a life is worth one night without alcohol. 
The Dry Driving Club, and the support it has already received from students, shows the administration we weren't kidding last year when we said we care about drunk driving. 

Herringbones, Checks, Tweed, & Solids Fully lined, made in the USA 

$26.99 
While Quantities Last! 
Goodwill 
Eddy Street at Howard (Across from Nickies) Mon.-Thurs. 9-7 Fri. 9-8 Sat. 9-5:30 



The Observer Monday, November 12, 1984 -page 3 


Thr O~rvcr/l.ev Chapclsky 

Wtlliam Mclinn appeared last night as Mark Twain to voice his and Twain's opinions on war andpeace. Story below. 
Mark Twain visits ND 
National Shakespeare Company reveals combat techniques at SMC 
By SHARON HOUK 
News Staff 
Shakespearian performance and stage combat were the focus of two workshops conducted by the Na­tional Shakespeare Company Friday afternoon at Saint Mary's. 
'Ibe two workshops were con­ducted prior to the ensemble's per­formance of "The Two Gentlemen of Verona" at O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
"Shakespeare deals with the emo­tions that we deal with and live through on a daily basis," said Guy Howard, who conducted the workshop on Shakespearian perfor­mance. Howard played Speed in "'Ibe Two Gentlemen ofVerona". 
The purpose of theater, in Shake­speare's words, is "to hold, as 'twere, the mirror up to nature." Howard said, "Shakespeare helps us to dis­cover our own emotions." 
Shakespeare demands more from the actor than any other playwright, said Howard. According to Howard, performing Shakespeare is a per­sonal challenge. He said, "Shakespeare demands a constant searching process to keep the per­formance alive. He gives us such depth offeeling and emotion that we c:an do a role forever and never find all the nuances of the character." 
Two other actors conducted a workshop on stage combat. Rik Montgomery and Mark Battle showed Interested students how to slap each other, faint and fall to the ground as If tossed in a brawl. 
"'Ibe first word in stage combat Is safety," said Montgomery. "Fie!" is the cue word used to alert fellow combatants that something has gone wrong during a performance. The actors then step back and begin again. 



Join 

THE FUTL/l?E OF Ftl?El?ICHIY STEEUlH/"111'/G IS HEl?E ••• .-• Inland Steel 
Inland Steel Company 30 W. Monroe Street Chicago, Illinois 60603 312/346-0300 
Montgomery and Battle demon­strated their techniques during Friday's performance of "The Two Gentlemen of Verona". Montgomery played Proteus, one of the two gentlemen, and Battle played an outlaw. 
The National Shakespeare Com­pany is celebrating Its 22nd season on tour. Of3,000 applicants desiring a position In this year's tour, 1,000 were asked to audition in New York City this past spring. Of those who auditioned, 12 were chosen to form the 1984-1985 touring ensemble. 
Nine men and three women with varying backgrounds and ages con­stitute the ensemble that travels by bus throughout the continental United States and Canada. The 12 performers also serve as their own lighting and stage crews. 
The troupe will perform 130-160 shows of "Macbeth" and "The Two Gentlemen of Verona" in the nine month sea.'ion. 
Russ Anderson, who plays Valentine in "The Two Gentlemen of Verona", is a native of Minnesota where he created a summer theater program for children. He is recently 
graduated  from  the  University  of  
Northern  Iowa.  Mark  Battle  is  
originally  from  California  and  is  

presently working on a screenplay based on the genius ofShakespeare. 
Stephen Dirk Is an Army veteran who originally worked as a theater technician and has since turned ac­tor. Dirk plays 'Iburio in "The Two Gentlemen ofVerona". Anthony Ed­mund is a native ofTrinidad who has resided in New York City for the past 13 years. 
Joseph Gargiulo attended Webster College In St. Louis. He played the Duke in Friday's perfor­mance. Guy Howard has had a diverse career before coming to the 
National Shakespeare Company. 
Some of his favorite roles include 
McMurphy in "Cuckoo's Nest" and 
Billy in "Carousel". 
Sabrina LaRocca received her B.A. 
from the University ofCalifornia and 
plays Silvia in "Two Gentlemen". 
Mechele Leon, Lucetta in "Two 
Gentlemen", has been working for 
the past six years in New York 
theaters and nightclubs. 
Elizabeth McGuire has a history of Shakespearian roles from Hermia in "A Midsummer Night's Dream" to Katherine in "The Taming of the Shrew." McGuire played Julia in Friday's performance. Rik Montgomery is the only member of the ensemble from England: He has lived in New York since 1979. 
David Scott has toured the United States with a small circus, perform­ing as a clown, and with a children's magic show. He received his B.F.A. from Boston University. He played the comical Luance in Friday's show. David Sherrick has played such diverse roles as Erronius in"AFunny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum", Fagin in "Oliver" and Creon in "Antigone". Sherrick plays An­tonio in "The Two Gentlemen of Verona". 
Friday evening's performance of "The Two Gentlemen of Verona" was the second event in 'Ibe Per­forming Arts Series at Saint Mary's. Mary Gerber, director of the Office of Special Programs, is enthusiastic about the remainder of the series: Liv Ullmann, a noted Scandinavian actress, will speak Nov.14; The Chicago City Ballet is scheduled to perform Feb. 1 5 and the Czech Chamber Soloists are scheduled March 29. 
By PAUL CIMINO 
StaffReporter 
Mark Twain visited the campus of Notre Dame yesterday for the first time since his death in 1910 and ad­dressed a crowd ofstudents, profes­sors, and assorted Twain-lovers on the subject ofwar and peace. 
The man responsible for bringing Mark Twain back to life Is William McLinn, a minister of the United Church of Christ who has been im­personating Twain since 1975. 
"It started as a fluke," McLinn said in a pre-lecture press conference. "I had always wanted to do a one-man show and I decided to impersonate Twain and use him as a novel ap­proach to hitting the issues." 
Since 1975, McLinn has imper­sonated Twain in all parts of the globe, including mainland China. He is enthusiastically received wher­ever he travels and enjoys touring. "Twain is a favorite American au­thor," he said, "a folk hero and every­one knows him." 
McLinn's lecture was meant to show Twain's feelings on the sub­jects ofwar and peace and how they are related to the inhabitants of today's world. All of the comments 

ARCHITECTURE MAJORS HAVE DESIGNS ON DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
277-2151 
Two Free Cokes®  Get two free Cokes<!: with any pizza. One coupon per pizza.  
Fast, Free Dellvery'M  
Plaza 23 Center  

McLinn gave were actual quotes from Twain. 
The speech was mainly com­prised ofanecdotes from Twain's life in which the author related happen­ingsfrom his days as a reporter, argu­ments with his wife, and his campaign to defeat the famous Tam­many Ring. 
Above all, the speech conveyed Twain's opinion of war In no uncer­tain terms. "War amounts to nothln' at all," he said. "We may not be able to have perpetual peace but we can reduce the world's armies down to small amounts." 
He also noted adam:o:ntly that, "the human being is the only being that deals in the atrocities ofwar." In the end, Twain's message became simple-there Is no reason for war. 
Following the lecture, Twain allowed a brief question and answer period during which he fielded questions on any topics the audi­ence desired to ask. 
When asked about President Reagan, Twain answered, "He's al­ways showin' off; this cheap imita­tion cowboy. If he were to die tomorrow there would be an out­pouring of affection -the kind not seen since Nero." 


Inland Steel. the nation's fourth largest steel pro­ducer, is in the midst of revolutionary changes in the way we develop, man­ufacture, and market steel products. These changes are designed to make Inland the premier steelmaker worldwide. 
Wednesday, November 14 Alumni Room Morris Inn 6:00 to 9:00P.M. 
the 



Revolution! 
We need aggressive, intelligent Notre Dame graduates to join us in this challenge. If you are a Senior undergraduate, or M.B.A. candidate and are interested in a career in Marketing, Sales, or Systems Consulting, join us for a reception to learn about the excit­ing changes underway and the opportunities we offer. We invite you to share with us in the future of American Steelmaking. 
8-6 Mon. • Fri.  (219) 239-5144  
8-5 Saturday  Badin Hall  
(Evenings by Appoinment)  University of Notre Dame  
- 

The Observer Monday, November 12, 1984 -page 4 
Six Saint Mary's students initiated into Pi Lambda Theta Association 


UNIVERSITY HAIR STYLISTS 
FULL SERVICE UNISEX CENTER HAIR CUTTING SPECIALISTS 
. 



Grants 
continuedfrompage 1 
course that would have more 
relevance to contemporary issues. 
After years of development, the new core course began in 1979 un­der the title, "Ideas, Values, and Images." All A&L sophomores are re­quired to take the course in order that they may achieve a broader edu­cational and cultural background. 
According to Anastasia Gutting, assistant director ofth•e core course, students in small-sized classes are in­troduced to four crucial foci of Western thought: Nature, Society, the Individual. and God. Authors 

Board 
continuedfrom page1 
especially true with personnel mat­
ters." "People do have a right to 
know what goes on at the meetings, 
but at the proper time," said Carney. 
"The bulk of the mc:eting is taken 
up with reports from the various 
committees," said Murphy. The 
committees meet the day before the 
entire board meets to prepare the 
reports they will present to the 
board. Murphy said, "Most of the 
work is done in the committees." 
The six committees of the board 
are; Nominating, Academic and Fac­
ulty Affairs, Student Affairs, Univer­
sity Relations (Public Relations), 
Financial Affairs, and Investment. 
Any policy or proposal for action must first go through the proper committee before it is put before the entire board for final approval. 
All of the committc:es will meet Thursday afternoon to prepare the reports they will present before the entire board when it meets Friday. 
CANCI~R.
NOI 

KNOWIING 
THE RI!~KS 



ISYO,IR

&READ:sT RISK:. 

.. AMERICAN How you live 1
~"CANCER 

may save your life. fSOCIETY® 

~GIVE SOMEONE ATAN FOR CHRISTMAS 
Ask about our x-Mas special 
tAN-HAWAfM 
sun tannrg solon 277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths tor complete privacy VISA & MASTERCARD 
The Observer/Uv Chapelsky 
Bonjour Madame 
The French Club ofNotre Dame sponsored a creperie on Friday night to raise money for their activities. The event was held in Badin Hall. Various types ofcrepes and beverages were seroed. 
All you have to do 
IS Sign 



up... 


The Observer needs layout staff people 
INTRODUCTORY MEETING -7:00 Thursday Nov. 15,1984 
3rdf/oor, LaFortune Student Center 
By DIANE PRESTI 
News Staff 
Two local education professionals and six Saint Mary's students were initiated last Saturday to the Nor­thern Indiana Chapter of Pi Lambda Theta, a national honor and profes­sional association in education. 
The initiation of the six Saint Mary's students marie;, the first time this chapter bas ever included un­dergraduate students in their organi­zation. The student inductees were Janice Bradley, Corinne Flores, Joan Gundlach and Anita Murtagh all of whom are juniors. One senior, Carla Sebasty, was also inducted. All the students are majoring in elementary education. 

Pi Lambda Theta is an organiza­tion that works toward outstanding levels ofcreativity and academic ex­cellence on all levels of education. They seek to "promote professional fellowship and cooperation, support research in education, and improve the status ofwomenin education." 
Among the inductees were Roma Anglemeyer, an elementary teacher who works with gifted and talented students of the Wa-Nee Community Schools, and Maralee Crandon, an as­sistant professor ofcommunications at Bethel College. 
The president of the Northern Indiana Chapter, Sylvia Whitmer, director of student teaching and as­sistant professor in the education department ofSaint Mary's, attended the ceremonies. Marjorie Sauers of Fort Wayne, vice president ofthe na­tional Pi Lambda Theta also atten­ded. 
The ceremonies took place in Havican Hall on Saint Mary's campus. 

ranging from Plato to Freud are read and discussed. 
Gutting also stressed another long-range function of the course. Since the course is taught by faculty members who are experts in a par­ticular field, much of the course ma­terial is also new to them. 
"The Core Course," said Gutting, "brings a small group ofstudents to­gether with someone who is an ex­pert at research. Students have an opportunity to observe how a well educated person thinks' in analyzing material that is foreign to him." 
The hope is that students will achieve a higher level of problem solving. 
Gutting will direct the review and investigation ofthe course for which the grant funds are being used. Proj­ects will include a review of the syl­labus by faculty members, investigative visits to other schools such as Columbia University, and a summer workshop to prepare fac­ultY for the presentation of the course. 
Since the course is so diverse, em­bodying Western thought on all aspects of civilization, the summer workshop will enable the course to fulfill its aspirations. 
Both grants are substantially larger than what is common for the College ofArts and Letters. 

Term PapE!rs Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
CaD Chrils at: 
234-89'97 

Let our master stylists make youlook your best for those upcoming SaintMary's/Notre Dame formals 
Let us take care ofall your hair care needs. 
We also have a full line of retail hair products. Located on campusfor your convenience. 




View~_o_i_n_t________
M_o_nd-ay_,N_ov-em_b_er-12_,-19-84-p-ag_e5 

Got an opinion, drop us a line 
Viewpoint nvt only provides you encourages all of its readers to fully an opportunity to respond to the expore and voice their opinions. columns, articles and Illustrations Simply sendyour letter toP. 0. Box Q printed Ibis newspaper, but through or deliever it to our office. Letters
... 

P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you should be no longer tban 150 words can address issues which have not in length and guest columns should been raised to your satisfaction in not exceed 600 words..All works must Ibis newspaper. Viewpoint be signed. 
Casey is a mouthpiece for the Reagan Mob 
P.O.Box Q 
Teachers must respect and encourage students !Jeur Editor: 
Arecent conversation with a fellow student lt-d me to some sc:rious contc:mplation on a mattc:r which concerns all of us at this Univer­sity. If, indet:d, we arc: engagc:d in the: pursuit of knowledge: at this institution of highc:r karning, It would seem only fitting that those who proft:ss to "teach" us students do just that. 
It is not my intention to make an accusation toward an unnamed ddt:ndant, nor to claim Immunity, as a studc:nt, to the: rc:sponsibilities of t·ducating mysdf and being c:ducated. However, I have: entertainc:d the view that the role ofa professor is one ofaiding and facilitat· ing the c:ducation of students. Although I am not pc:rsonally involved, I have become aware of and witness to the: dfects of a situation wht·rc: sut·h is not the ca'ie. 
In fact, ii is evident that some students, par­ticularly in the philosophy department, have been subjectc:d to an attitude and behavior most unbecoming to any professor. Professor X is a well-educated, extremely knowledgeable: man in his field. Unfortun­atdy, he has lost the respect of many of his students by finding It necessary to resort to a method ofinstruction which does not achieve it'i profc:ssed goal: teaching. 
Arrogance and condescension are inappro­priate in a classroom. Nor do insults and ridicule encourage anyone to improve his work. And, certainly, none ofthese creates or 

The president cannot get his facts, or his stories straight on the CIA's death manual for Nicaragua. At first, the White House promised to fire whoever authorized it. Then, just before the election, the president dismissed any indignation over the manual as just "a great big scare." Ifthat is all it was, why did the 
Garry Wills 
outrider 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
White House promise to fire its authorizer? 
Why was the White House scared? 
In his second debate with Walter Mondale, the prc:sident;. got his story backward on the number ofcopies submitted for authorization and the number released. In the same forum, he said there were two investigations going forward, but tried to play down the impor­tance of the manual with a premature (and reversed) version of the facts. 
In the same way, even while the CIA was investigating, that agency's director, the shady Casey, wrote a letter to Congress saying there was no need to investigate -the manual was merely a friendly effort at education that had been misread. '!ben why any investigation at all? And what kind of vigor or candor can be expected of agency investigators whose director has already enunciated their "line"? 
Casey's plea for a reading "in context" is equivalent to a murderer's saying, "Yes, I killed jones; but look at all the people-Smith, 
enhances an environment conducive to learn­
ing. 
Students arc of the human species. When attacked, they assume a defensive attitude, and are stifled. 'Jltey dare not venture forward; instead, they become discouraged and withdraw, concluding that ignorance may indeed be bliss, if the price of learning is so great. It is truly a shame that some are exposed to such futile negative reinforcement and suf­fer undue, unnecessary, and unjust degrada­tion and discouragement. 
One docs not poke fun at a third-grader when he misspells a word; nor does one slap a child when she falls off her bike. Students of any subject, whether bike-riding or philoso­phy, arc Impressed with teachers who possess proficiency, dedication, and enthusiasm; they arc inspirc:d by those who respect and encour­age their efforts. 
I have been blessed with professors of this 
latter sort. I sympathize with those who have 
not. 
Laila Mikhail Lewis Hal/ 

Heilmann's account needs some explanation DearEditor: 
There are certain inaccuracies in Mary Heil­mann's account of her interview with me (Obseroer, Nov. 7, 1984). In particular, I would like to make the following observa­tions. 
I said unrest between Hindus and Sikhs is a 
recent phenomenon and not something that "has plagued the 500 year history of the Sikh 

religion" 
Sikhs were not asking for broadcast ofreligi­ous hymns on Indian Radio. They were as­king simply for permission to install a transmitter in the Golden Temple Complex for this purpose. 
Punjab is not a Sikh but a Punjabi-speaking state. All Indian states are demarcated based on the language spoken by the majority of the people in the state. Punjab is composed ofap­proximately 52 percent Sikhs and 48 percent Hindus. 
Punjab wao; the "land of five rivers" before the partition of the subcontinent in 1947. The present Punjab has three rivers and the dispute involved the Indira Gandhi Govern­ment's arbitrarily diverting water from these non-riparian states. 
Perhaps the most important part of my in­terview got omitted. I raised the same ques­tion that was raised by Khushwant Singh, the most distinguished Sikh historian and jour­nalist, and a former confidant ofGandhi whom she decorated with a national award and nominated to the Indian Parliament. He asserted that "the violent Hindu backlash against Sikhs, unprecedented in its savagery, ' appears to have convinced many Sikhs of the need for a separate homeland . . . What hap­pened last week was genocide. W c arc like the Jews in Nazi Germany" and asked "Can a Sikh really say 'I am an Indian' after all this?" 
Karamjit Singh Rai Professor ofBiology 
Brown, Roberts, there are millions of them -I 
never hurt at all." Yes, the manual Instructs 
people to kill informers; but look at all the 
passages that say you should win the minds 
and hearts of the people. (Many sensible ter· 
rorist tracts have urged such campaigns of 
persuao;ion, to run parallel with the killings.) 
Congressman Norman Mineta, D-Calif., 
defends the manual with arguments lamer 
even than Casey's -that It sought to limit the 
killing to key people and prevent 
"indiscriminate" slaughter. 11tis is like the 
argument for organized crime · that it puts 

. some order in the messy business and results 
in fewer killings more surgically indulged for 
the good of the whole: operation. 
I have also heard the Inquisition defended 
on these grounds -that a monopoly on bur­
ning heretics was preferable to free-lance bur­
ning of heretics, since stricter tests of heresy 
were applied, a kind of uniform codc:. One 
must have standard'i. It is a despicable argu­
ment in the defense of the indefensible. 
In the current case, it is meant to cover up 
the fact that the Reagan administration, which 
laments terrorism so piously, practices it 
energetically, and prods others to engage in it. 
Mining harbors, "offing" informers, creating 
martyrs, killing leaders, toppling governments 
-it is the same criminal activity when we 
engage in it as when the people we despise do 
it. And it attracts the same level of venal or 
thrill-seeking thugs on both sides. The shame 
is that our thugs have such a fancy mouth­
piece and mob lawyer in Casey. 
(C) 1984, UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
Accent oversight does not serve students 
DearEditor: 
As a concerned student, I feel it is my rc:­sponsibility to inform you of some of the in­adequacies of your "paper." 
Recently, the student players of Notre Dame presented a musical titled Sweeney Todd. Apparently your editors forgot that this production existed. Every time a bulletin con­taining details of the play came across your desks, a mao;sive attack ofamnesia gripped thr features editor and she misplaced the notice. Again, after representatives from your highly esteemed publication came to see the final dress rehearsal Wednesday and the opening night Thursday, they forgot they ever went! They must have forgotten because not even a paragraph review appeared in the features section ofyour paper. 
Is this "serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's" as your front page states? I don't think so. The students involved in that play put roughly twelve hours a day into perfecting this production on every day of their break! The performances they gave were nearly flaw­less and, at the very least, very entertaining. It's a shame when so much hard work Is shown so little appreciation. 
The real loss came not to the actors and 
crew, but to the students of the Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's community; Had more 
people known about the play, more people 
would have gone, and more people would 
have witnessed a fantastic musical. 
Tom Schwarz 
junior 

The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edltor·in·Ch!ef. Bob Vonderhetde Busmess Manager. . . .. Dave Tatclet Manag1ng Ed1tor . Mark Worscheh Controller . . Maripat Horne 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper publtshed by the students of the News Editor .. Sarah Hamtlton Advertising Manager .. Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Satnt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily News Ed1tor ........... Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . Jeff O'Netll reflect the policies of the admtntstration of either institutton. The news IS reported as Samt Mary's Editor . Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager Kevin Williams accurately and as ob)ecttvely as possible. Unsigned edttorials represent the opinion Sports Ed1tor. . Mtchael Sullivan Production Manager. . ..... Chris Bowler of a maJOrtty of the Edttorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column Viewpoint Editor . . .... Dave Grote Project Manager . . .... Amy Stephan present the v1ews ot Iheir authors. Column space tS available to all members of the Features Ed1tor . . ....... Mary Healy communtty. and the ftee expression of varytng opintons on campus. through letters, Photo Ed1tor. . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 


Accent 
HoUT UTell do 

W 
hile thousands ol' tourists come from ail over the world to view Notre Dame's Golden Dome, !ilightly less than 2,000 new students travel to Iilorthern Indiana each year to experience the Univt:rsity. Undergraduates devote four years to growing intellectually, spiritually and socially at Notre Dame. But in the process ofall this growth, sometimes students forget to take a look armmd. 
The Golden Dome makes an indellible imprint on every Domer's memory, but how many years after graduation does it 1:ake before South Quad alumni forget which is Farley and which is Breen-Phillips? Is anyon•e ever able to distinguish Fisher from Pangborn? 1bere is more to this campus than the Administrtion Building. 
Few campuses combine such drastically different architectural slyles as Notre Dame. From the log chapel to Decio Faculty Building, from Carroll Hall to Pasquerilla East Hall, each building is distinct. There is as much difference between Sorin and Dillon, the buildings, as there is be­tween the spirits that ar<: these dorms. Unfortun· ately, too many students do not seem to notice these differences. 
Here is your chance to test your knowledge of 
4. 

the campus of Notre Dame. How well do you know your home offour years? Below are 14 photographs ofsculptures, statues, engravings and inscriptions from around the campus. Can you 1. identify the location where these are found? 
The Obseroer will award a S 1 5 prize to the person who can identify the most locations and submit an entry in the least amount of time. So delve deep in your memory of this famous campus, or grab your jacket and hit the pavement (and the grass). Search high and low, near and far. All ofthese photos were taken on campus. Even if you do not win the $1 5 prize, the knowledge and appreciation ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac you gain will be priceless. 
Rules 

l. Print or type ycur answers on a piece of paper with your name, phone number and · address. Submit your entry to the office manager at The Obseroer between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. 
2. 
NoObseroer employee is eligible to win the "Know your campus contest." 

3. 
Solutions to the contest will be published Monday, Nov. 19 in The Obseroer. The contest's winner will be announced at the same time. 




10. 

~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 

r 12. 
r 
I 
11. 

~ 
L 



13. 



Monday, November 12, 1984-page 6-7  
knour your ca01pus? 2. 3. --...;.;~·-' --­ 

' 
I I 
j j j j j 
I 
~ 
j 
1 j 



9.
8. 
7. 
14. 



l 
\ I
-4 j 
photos and design by Sarah Hamilton 




~.·. 
Monday, November 12, 1984-page 8

Sports Briefs 

Blocked kick nudges Miami to 10-0 
Associated Press to play. The Dolphins could clinch Von Schamann kicked a 27-yard field
500 baske1tball ticketsfor each Notre Dame men's 

the American Conference East With goal that made it 24-17, setting thehome game will go on sale beginning today at Gate I 0 of the ACC. 
The Miami Dolphins remained un­a victory next week at San Diego. stage for what the Eagles hopedIndividual upper art,na tickets are priced at $5 each, with a limit of beaten by the margin of a blocked Philadelphia scored on two passes would be a tying drive.
six per customer. Upper arena season packages will cost $90 and will extra point, while the Houston from RonJaworski and led I4-0 with The Oilers won for the first time

include admission to three women's games. ~ The Observer 

Oilers erased the "zero" in their win­2:34 left in the first quarter as the in 11 games, beating Kansas City 17­column in another National Football Dolphins trailed for only the third I6, and broke an NFL record string League game decided by one point time this season. of 23 straight road defeats. yesterday. Miami quarterback Dan Marino fi­
The Dolphins, I1-0, held off the nally began to connect in the second
Interhall ~Llld club basketball team captains 

Philadelphia Eagles, 24-23, when half, and the Dolphins scored twice will be meeting thi:> week in the football auditorium at the ACC. 
Rivers
Doug Betters blocked an extra-point in a 3:44 span in the third and fourthMen's interhall captains will meet tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. and wo­attempt by Paul McFadden with I :52 quarters to take a 2I-1 7 lead. Uwe men's captains Thursday at 5 p.m. Club captains will meet Thursday 
continuedfrom page 12 
at 4:30p.m. -The Observer 

fit around Dave Rivers. Before the year is over, we'll be a pretty good
Men's Box Score 
team." Gold 102, Blue 81 
Besides Rivers, Irish fans got their M FG-A FT-A R F P 
first look at the three other fresh­
Interhall hockey captains will be meeting 

Beeuwsaert 17 4-8 1·1 2 4 9 
men, all ofwhom did well. Peters got 
Royal 38 4-7 1·2 6 2 9
tomorrow at 5 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC. -The his 22 points on 10-of-I8 shooting

Voce 34 6·7 0-1 2 2 12
Observer 

from the field and a perfect two-for­Peters 38 10-18 2·2 2 2 22 
Duff. 40 4-11 0·0 8 0 8 
two performance from the free 
Price 33 10-15 1-2 I 3 21 
throw line. 
200 38-66 5-8 21 13 81 
The other two, Beeuwsaert and
FG Pet.·.S76. FT Pet.· .625. Team rebounds· 2. Turnovers· 12. Assists· 7 (Ouff6). Techni· 
Voce, started with the Blue but bothThe ND/S~lC Ski Clubwill be meeting Thursday at switched over to the Gold in the
cats-none.
6 p.m. in the LaFortune tittle Theatre. Anyone interested in the trip 

Gold (102) 
second half. Beeuwsaert was 7-of-12should attend. For more information, call Julie at 283-4354. -The 
M FG-A FT-A R F p 
and 2-of-2 for 16 points, while Voce
Observer 

Dolan 35 3-9 3-4 9 1 9 
was 6-of-7 and 0-of-1 for 12 points.
Barlow 40 7-15 2.·2 7 5 16 Bowen 34 8·9 0·0 8 2 16 
IRISH ITEMS -Tim Kempton did 
Hicks 40 13-17 1·1 2. I 27 
not participate in last night's game
Rivers 39 11·16 3·4 3 0 25 
because of a leg injury which will
Voce 4 0-0 0·0 0 0
Sign-ups for the SMC Turkey Trot are 

keep him out of action for about a
Beeuwsaert 7 3-4 1·1 () 0 7 
being accepted at the Angela Athletic Facility until this Friday at 5 

Newell I 1-1 0·0 0 0 2 
week ... Walk-on Casey Newell was 
p.m. The 3-mile cross-country race will take place at 4 p.m. on Mon­

200 46-71 10-12 30 9102 
inserted into the Gold line-up in the 
FG Pet. ..648. FT Pet.· .833. Team rebounds·
day, Nov. I9, and is open to all. Participants must advance register, game's final 1: 18 and got a basket,

4. Turnovers-9.Assists·12(Rivers9). Techni­
and there is a $1 entry fee to cover the cost of awards. For more the Gold's final one ... Next up for

cals ·None. 
information, contact the SMC Athletic Department at 284-5548. -Tbe 

Halftime · White 69, Blue 49. Officials · Ron 
the Irish is the Zadar club of Yugos­
Observer 

Hosinski, Dave Towner, Bob Szrom. A· 2,446. 
lavia, a 76-71 winner over Butler last night in Indianapolis. 
The 0/Jserver Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising froml) a.m. until -1 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, locatt·d on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classitkds from 12::\0 p.m. until :\p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classified~ b ~ p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in.person or by mail. Charge is I 0 tTnts per five charat··





Classifieds 
ters er day. 
NOTICES] 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8897 
TYPING SERVICE at reasonabhr rates. Very professionally done on th11 latest IBM and XEROX word processii'IQ equip­ment. Please call 287-5157. Will deliver and pick up. Copying servio3 also available. 
GET INTO A TOP LAW SCHOOL. Send for free information now. Indicate name, address, school, year, major, or­ganizational affiliation and position. Write to: PASS (Pro!essionai/Graduate School Applicants' Support Service}, 80 Wall St., Suite614, NY, NY 10005 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009 
LOST/FOUN~ 
I LOST MY PULSAR MAN'S WATCH LAST FRIDAY IN THE ROCK'S WEIGHT ROOM. IF YOU FOUND IT, PLEASE CALL SAM AT 4665.1 NEED IT!!!! 
LOST SILVER CHAIN SENTIMENTAL VALUE PLEASE CALL 1118 
lost: gold ring between Zahm a"'j Lewis on Thurs. night. It has sentimental value if found call Kim 4205. 
FOUND: Silver cross, on Stepan lield be­tween Stepan Center and Junip« Road on Saturday morning. Call 2045 and dascribe fully to claim. 
At Corby's Saturday Night, I lost my favor­ite charcoal grey coat with light grey stripes. It was from SFA, a reward will be offered for its return, and no questions will be asked. If you know of its wherftabouts call Frances at 284-4241 
LOST: GREEN NOTRE DAME J,,CKET THE WEEK BEFORE oc--OBER BREAK; LAUNDARY TAG SAYS MARC DURETTE; IF FOUND CALL ALISJ\ 4341 
LOST: NO BRASS KEY RING WITH ALL MY KEYS. MARY 2890 
LOST: Black Cross pen in 107 ()'Shag after 11 :00 class on Thur 11/8 call :!263 or 2245 any time--THANX 

I.____W_A_N_TE_D____. 
Ride needed to St. Paui/Mpls. for Thanksgiving. Willing to leave early!! (Sunday or Monday} Call Mary at 277­2851. 
Ride Needed:To Rochester.N.Y. area for Thanksgiven Break. Will share usual ex­penses. Mom's expecting me to carve the turkey so please help !!! Call Basil at 2275 . Do it for my mom! 
WANTED: Riders to No. VA/DC for Thanksgiving. Call MB at 4172. 
NEED ride on 1-80 to EAST PA-Can leave 9/19 or later-ROB 1739 
I NEED A RIDE TO THE UNIVERSITY OF IUINOIS NEXT WEEKEND (THE 16TH TO THE 18TH).IF YOU CAN HELP ME OUT, I WILL PAY FOR MY SHARE OF THE GAS, ETC. CALL MAUREEN AT 2900 IF YOU ARE INTERESTED. 
RIDE NEEDED:Back to NOTRE DAME on Sunday, Nov 25th from New York metropolitan area.Will share expenses and driving.Call Torn at 1244. Help!!! I WANT TO GO HOME!! 
WANTED: 2-8 PENN ST. GA'S BIG REWARD GUARANTEED CALL TOM 2111NOW! 
Need ride to CINCINNATfor T -giving. Can leave TUES.Nov.20.2peopte. Will share usual. I person returning sun25th.Terry 4059 
FOR SALE 

MUST SELL IMMEDIATELY --COM­PLETE COMPUTER SET-UP APPLE lie (new) Apple lie 64K & monitor; disk drive; Apple Daisywheel letter quality printer, Applewriter lie software, Basic manual, and Ec-V surge protector (prevents elct. damage). Total original purchase price was $345~ willing to sell for $3000 or best offer. AVOID LONG DELAYS IN OR­DERING ONE OF APPLE'S MOST VER­SATILE & POWERFUL COMPUTERS. Contact Dr. Dan Rybicki 256-5275 (leave 
message). 
······•··•••····•••·········•··•··. 

Rellgloue Gllte In Stained Gl..e Individually handcfafled by The Trap­pistines. For more information, write Santa Rita Abbey. Box 97, Sonoita, Arizona, 85637. 
.... ············································· COMMODORE COMPUTER SYSTEM FOR SALE. INCLUDES COMMODORE 64, 1541 DISK DRIVE, AND 1525 VIC PRINTER -$450-CALL 1469. 
For Sale -one round trip ai~ine ticket to anywhere in U.S. Must be used by 12/17. Bestoffer.Cal\1216. 
DENON ORA 300 STEREO RECIEVER. 33 WATIS/CHANNEL, EXCEUENT SOUND COMES WITH GUARANTEE ASKING $200, CALL MIKE 283-3587 
FOR SALE amplifier David Hatler dh200k 100 watts/channel call Mary SMC-4305 
TICKETS 

I Need It Bad!!!!! One Penn. St. ticket-stu­dent or G.A. Please call Grace-3781. 
Need PENN STATEtix!! StudentorG.A.I need lots, so please call Terri ]277-7 455. 
PENN ST GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 
2 USC GA'S FOR SALE. CALL MARY AT 3741. 
Need two PENN ST. G.A.e. C.ll Tom II 1580. 
MY NAME IS VINNIE. There, now that the exciting stuff is out of the way, I think you should know that I need two Penn State GA's, preferably beforethegeme on the 17th. Call VINNIE at 2538. That's VINNIE. 
FOR SALE: 6 Penn State GA's in a block;Best Offer Csll Eric 1528 
I DESPARATEL Y need 2 Penn St. GA's. Call Bill tate 1521. 
NEED STUD TIX FOR PENN ST. CAU JIMAT1374. 
NEED PENN ST GA'S. WIU PAY $ !! PLEASE CALL AMY -291-9644 
THIS IS AN APPEAL FOR PENN ST. TIX­-1 NEED 3 GAs CALL MIKE FLANNERY­4061 
I NEED 2 PENN STATE STUDENT TIX.CAU ROBIN AT 234-7319 
..............................., 
NEED 2 Penn State GA's call Martha at SMC5120 
I Need 3 Penn State Tickets together. GA or Student. Please call Pattie 284-5087 
Desperately Needed: 3 or 4 G.A.s for the­Penn St. Game, will pay cash for tickets. Call Vince 3262 
NEEDED 4 PENN. ST. TICKETS CALL DAVEH.1606 
Wanted: 5 PENN ST. tix .. some in grps. of 2. Cal\288-9403. $$ 
Help!!! I need Penn St. tickets! call Mark at3684 
I NEED 5 STUD. TIX FOR PENN ST.. CALL PAT 3055 
Need Penn St. tix, GA's or other. Call Dan 287-6262 
NEED 2 SETS OF 2 GA's PENN ST. KEVIN 3562 
STILL NEED PENN STATE GAs. 4 or pairs. Call Rob--3305. 
PLEASE NEED 2-8 PENN ST. TIX C!-LL TOM2111 
I NEED 1 PENN STATE TICKET, x3584 
HELP!!HELP!! I DESPARA TEL Y NEED 2 STUDENT OR GA PENN STATE TIX! Call Mary 2890 please• 
NEED PENN STATE GA'S.CALL MEGAN 284-4145 
PERSONALS 
LET THEM EAT CAKE!!!! 
LETTHEMEATCAKE!!!! 
ORDER YOUR CAKE TODAY FROM NO CAKE SERVICE THRU IRISH GAR­DENS!!! SURPRISE A FRIEND WITH A B-DAY CAKE TODAY!!!! 
KISSY KAT-YOU ARE MISSED 
GEORGETOWN LAW SCHOOL 
WILL HOLD 
INFORMATION SESSIONS ON 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13TH AT 
10:30,1 :OO,AND 2:00 
SIGN UP OUTSIDE OF 101 O'SHAG 
SPONSORED BY THE PRE·LAW SOCI­ETY 
BE THERE OR BE SQUARE II 
PENNSTATEII! I desperately need·two Penn State GA's. Please call Mary at1333. 
FLY TO CALIFORNIA FOR A WEEKEND-or anywhere else in the U.S. One round trip airline ticket for sate -to anywhere you feel like going BUT all travel must be completed by 12/17. Taking best offer. Makes a great gill! Call 1216. 
Riser-you're a heal-on and you always will be!!!! And as always, we remember to ssy THMNNNKKYYYAA !!! 
Christy Sieger is a goddess among god­desses . 
I desperately need one Penn State stu­dent ticket. If you can help, please call Meura at 2694. 
JAMES FLYNN-GOOD ACTING JOB.MULDOON'S FUN? FORGET LIVING OFF-CAMPUS. -DAD 
I desperately need a ride to the D.C. Area for Thanksgiving Break! If you can help Call Kim at 284-5082 
I'd Like lo buy a vowel, please. 
......................... 

Skid Row Skid Row Skid Row Party 
Reluggees. A true skidder does not blow 
off a party for such trivial things as study­
ing 

AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO --CHECK IT OUT' --AM STEREO 
And now for something completely differ­ent ... a man without two Penn St. tix. call Marc 1642 
BLANK TAPES FOR SALE ProgrMelve Muetc Club prMente TDK SA 90'e: $2.251or PMC membere, S2.751or gen­eral public. See Blll In 921 Flenner, 1185. 
GKJOE:2numbers are the same in the left combo.Key used 
BOB-DON'T WORRY OVER LOST BOXERS. MAILED TO SUSIE THIS MORNING. LOVE,SMC 
The ZARFS In Adll. (cont.) 

George, Why don't you have any 
upper-class mayonaise? I hate this demo­
cratic Miracle Whip! Concubine, don't you 
want to be mine, Concubine. Is that a 
Cucumber? Secret gossip session the 
next morning. 
Happy Birthday, Morn! Love, Bill 

P.S. Those chocolate chip cookies were delicious. 
Here -goagain lguane WomanI I hope your WMkend with the tguane Man turned out to be 1 reptlllen euc-
Friend ollguene 
-· 
Ann Murphy 
Roses are red Violets are blue Sugar is sexy And so are you! 

Hey, Anne O'Malley, I want to all about Friday. and especially about Rebecca's evening. How was the BM? Hope you had a blast. 
Rebecca like Tacos more than WoRMs. 
SPECTACLE PARTY PREPARE YOUR SPECTACLES 

Jul, Heppy 20th Blrthdllyll Hope you have 1 grill dlly end y11r. I'm mt..ln' youI Love you, Tim 
O..r Ann Murphy, Bon)our 11111 cherle ,your MCret lldmlrerer 
Concubine. 
Don't you want to be mine, 
Concubine. 
The Hooters 

Dear Mellon, Maggie Mergenthaler ssys "Hi". 
ARTS & LETTERS BUSINESS SOCIETY SPONSORS A CAREER NIGHT WITH THE MAY COMPANY TUES.NOV. 13 
7:00 124 HAYES HEALY SEE ADS 

Dear Frank-Happy 21st! I'm sorry I can't be there. -Love Kel P .S. GO BUCKS! 
JR is getting excited .. ThanksGiving is coming!! 
Happy 21st Birthday to our Favorite Drunk! Want to go tor a walk? Have you figured out which boot goes on which foot yet? Call us if interested in renewing your charter membership. We love ya! 
The film UMION MAIDS will be shown Monday November 12 and Tuesday No­vember 13 at the Lafortune Auditorium at 
7:00 and 8:30pm. A discussion with Pro­lessor Ghilarducci will follow the 7:00 showing. The film and the discussion are part ol the Social Concerns Film Series. 
It's a gray day. 

"THE WOMEN OF NOTRE DAME" Calendar COMING SOON!!! presented by Holy Cross Hall 
LUTHER. .. !!!I! ···················· TRICIA BOOKER:The next lime you wish to express a trite jealousy (like not being selected for a calender) at least have the backbone to put your name. 
Morrissey EUNUCHS cannot even satiate 8th grade sexuality! 
JOHN THORNTON--ATIENTION QUESTION: IS IT NOT TRUE THAT YOU WERE IN HIGH SCHOOL JUST THREE MONTHS AGO? ANSWER: YES QUES­TION: ARE YOU WORTH IT? ANSWER: NO SIGNED, A PREVIOUS HIGH SCHOOL AQUAINTENCE 
INTERESTED IN LAYING OUT THE OBSERVER? Come to en Introductory leyout m11ttng Thurllday, November 15, at7:00 In the Oburver o"lcee. 
................................................................ 
Need ride to CLEVELAND leaving TUES­DAY NOV. 20 Call Miriam 4174 
THE WOMAN IN RED 
WAKE ME UP BEFORE YOU GO! 

A CALL TO PEACEMAKING WEEK:TUES.NOV 13,7:30P.M.at CSC multi-purpo~e room,the film "IF YOU LOVED THIS PLANET".(sponsored by ND/SMCRTL) 


The Observer Monday, November 12, 1984 -page 9 
Women's interhall semifinals decided 
Farley, Pasquerilla East win berths 
ByJOHN COYLE 
.\ports Writer 
Only two teams left and just one more game to be played. Last night's semifinal victors, Farley and Pasquerllla East, will meet next Sun­day in Notre Dame stadium to fight for the women's interhall flag foot­ball championship. 
Farley earned its way to the final contest beating a tough Breen­Phillips team, 6-0. P.E. won its ticket to the championship by topping a spirited Lewis squad, also by the score of6-0. 
It wa.~ obvious from the start that the weather would have a drastic ef­fect on the games. The temperature at kickoff of the first game wa.~ in the mid-30's. 'Ibere was also a stiff wind which often altered the flight of the ball. To top it off, the field wa.~ ex­tremely wet, making the ball hard to handle:. "There were a lot of things we could not do because of the wea­ther conditions. lt definitely affected our game plan," noted P.E. head coach JerryJudd. 
Farley received the opening kick­off of the first game and quickly es­tablished its offense. Using both the option and short pa.o;ses, quarterback Mary Lou Almedia brought her team to the B.P. 25-yard-line. The B.P. defense toughened, though, and stopped the Farley drive. 
B.P. then mounted a modest drive of its own, moving the ball on the ground into Farley territory, but it too wa.<; unable to score. The half ended with both teams having im­pressive offensive statistics, but nothing to show for it. 
Farley received the second half kickoff and began to drive again, but this time B.P. wa.~ not able to stop them. Farley connected· on a flea­flicker play to Kara England for a 30­yard-gain that put the ball on the B.P. 
48. Farley then advanced deeper into B.P. territory using a mixture of running plays and short passes. Al­meida capped the drive by scoring a one-yard touchdown on a quarter­back sneak. 
B.P. 
got the ball back and tried to move downfield to tie the score, bu't the Farley defense was too tough. 

B.P. 
played well, but it was unable to 



Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
competition for the Irish. University of Texas at El Paso, Oregon, and Washington State are all tradition­ally strong. 
The Irish, because of their unde­feated regular season and a fine race in the qualifying meet, head into the championships with confidence and hopes for improvement. 
"Now we're secure in the Top Twenty and I think we have a chance at the Top Ten," Cannon said. "We could do best by going out more conservatively and competing stronger in the middle ofthe race, so we can finish better." 
come up with the big play. "B.P. played really tough, but we came through in the clutch," said Farley head coach JohnJanicki. 
Most thought P.E. would have a pretty easy time with the Lewis team. The Lewis players, however, were really up for this game and gave P.E. all it could handle. 
Neither team could do much with the ball in the first few minutes. P.E. appeared to be in big trouble when a 60-yard punt byJanine Olds put P.E. at its own six-yard-line. P.E. then showed just how explosive it can be. Elise Armstrong swept left, beat the defense to the outside and raced down the sideline for 85 yards and the score. 
"To finish in the top 10 we have to do better than yesterday (Saturday)," Courtney said. "However, we don't have• to do anything outrageous or super­human. Uke we've done all year, we need a consistent team perfor­mance. It all comes down to one day, and who runs well on that one day." 
The Irish have used fine talent, teamwork, and consistency to remain undefeated all year and qualify for the NCAA's. In order to fulfill their final goal of a Top-Ten finish, the Irish must display these qualities at the NCAA's. Considering the special character of this Irish team, any goal oftheirs must be con­sidered attainable. 

Freshman point guard Dave Rivers drives for one of his many layups in last night's men's intrasquad game at the ACC. Rivers finished with 25 points and9 assists, while sophomoreguard Scott Hicks scored 27 as the Gold Team defeated the Blue Team, 102-81. jeffBlumb detatls last night's action on page 12; box score appears on page B. 
BANKING••• ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours· Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday-11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ source 
Join Michiana's 1stTeam ~Bank for unsurpa~sed banking service! Member F.D.I.C. 
NAVY MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE 
Navy Medical Scholarships provide:
* 
Your full tuition. authorized fees and educational expenses.

* 
The cost of requ1red books and supplies.

* 
Rental fees for necessary equipment such as m1croscopes.

* 
A monthly cash payment directly to you. to spend as you please! 


Part1cipat1on m the Navy Health Professions Scholarship Program does not mvolve a11y md1tary trammg nor requ~res weanng of a Navy un1form. Your academ1c rout1ne and lifestyle w111 remain )he same as· other med1cal 
students. 

Qualifications for this scholarship include: Be accepted for the next entenng class or currently enrolled in an approved school of medicine or osteopathy. Be a U.S. citizen. Be physically qualified for a commission as a Naval Officer. 
For more infromation: Call Marty Schmahl Toll Free: 1-800-382-9404 Ext. 6183 
Or write to: Medical Programs Room 646 575 N. Pennsylvania Indianapolis, IN 46204 
Navy Representative will be on campus October 10 & 11 at the Student Union. 
•------~ COUPON ------. 
II II 
GRAND OPENING WEEK 
I SHARONE'S I I BOUTIQUE I I I
I TOWN & COUNTRY I 
I SHOPPING CENTER I I MISHAWAKA, IN. I 
I I
I LADIES' DESIGNER I I CLOTHING • LEATHER • JEWELRY I 
I I II 25% Off WITH THIS COUPON I 
TO ALL ND & SMC STUDENTSI OFFER GOOD THRU DEC. 15, 1984 



JL-----· COUPON I 
·----­
with opening act: 
THE COMA TEENS 
Friday November 16th 
8:00pm 
Tickets on sale NOW at all ACC Ticket outlets and the SAB Record Store in LaFortune 

The Observer Monday, November 12, 1984-page 10 
Blue downs White, 44-24 

Women's Box Score
Juniors star in women's intrasquad 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
Last night's women's intrasquad basketball game was an opportunity for the freshmen players to gain some attention, but as things turned out it was a couple of familiar faces who took centerstage at the ACC. Juniors Trena Keys and Lynn Ebben each scored 1 0 points and grabbed seven rebounds to lead\ the Blue to a 44-24 win over the Wll~te. 
Senior Carrie Bates netted eight points for the winners on six-of-six from the free throw line, and class­mate Ruth Kaiser added seven points on three-of-four shooting. Junior point guard Dc:nise Basford did a good job running the Blue of­fense, and sophomore Lavetta Willis (four points) and fre:>hman Sandy Botham (five points) chipped in from the forward spots. 
"We (the Blue) really tried to con­centrate on playing defense, and on getting the ball up the tlloor quickly," said Ebben. "We wanted to avoid 

Footba.ll 
continuedfrom page 12 
down on two five-yard runs by Nick Fiore. Two more five-yard gains by Fiore gave Morrissey a lirst-and-goal at the 10. 
With the Stanford sideline loudly cheering its defense, Morrissey again called on Fior•e, who had gained 20 yards in his previous four carries. This time Fiore could not find even a crack in the Stanford defense as he was stopped for no gain. On second down, Fiore tried the outside but ran into a wall ofred jerseys and was dropped at the line ofscrimmage. 

Those were two deci:>ive plays be­cause on third-and-1 0 Morrissey had to go to the air and ~·tanford was ready for it. Morrissey quarterback Geoff Henry dropped back, looked for a receiver, then rolloed left. For a split second, Henry must have seen an open receiver but when he threw 
the ball into the end zone, the only people waiting were three Stanford defensive backs. Andy Reardon made the interception for a touch­back to clinch the 6-0 victory for Stanford. 

531 N. Michig"n St., 
~&» Phone 133-4957 JQ;
a ............-......................................w 


turnovers and to move the ball quickly and score before the (White) defense could recover. I thought our team really worked well together." 
The Blue team helped its own cause from the charity stripe, hitting on 14 of 1 5 free throws to build its lead. 
"The Blue team was successful be­cause it executed better," said Head Coach Mary DiStanislao. "They did the things that they needed to do. They played well on the transition game, both from offense to defense and from defense to offense. There weren't too many open baskets for the White team. 
"There were some pretty good in­dividual performances -I think you saw the coming ofage ofTrena Keys (five-of-nine shooting). She had a good game; she took charge on the floor and played with confidence. I think Lynn Ebben (four-of-six from the field) has made a good transition from her sophomore to her junior year -she played well defensively and on the boards. Denise Basford did a good job running the team, and Carrie Bates did a fine job inside ­ducking in and posting up. Lavetta Willis continues to develop into one of the best defensive players I've ever coached. Sandy Botham was probably suffering a little from opening night jitters, but I think she'll eventually live up to her bil­ling." 
The White, which included fresh­men Kathy Brommeland, Beth Mor­rison, and Kathy Barron, had problems offensively, shooting only 40 percent from the field ( 10 for 25). The White had both senior co­captains -center Mary Beth Schueth and guard Laura Dougherty, as well as sophomore guard Vonnie Thompson and sophomore forward Mickey Skieresz, but it never really got untracked. "Thompson's play was one of few bright spots for the White. 
"Vonnie did a good job (last) night," noted DiStanislao. "She's been having foot trouble lately (possible stress fracture), but I think that once she gets healthy she'll get her game together. 
"It was good for the freshmen to get this game under their belts. Kathy Brommeland has a great deal of potential, and I think Beth Mor­rison will put it all together. Kathy Barron is going to help us too." 
The Irish open their 1984-85 season on Saturday, Nov. 24, at Ten­nessee. Their next ACC appearence will be Monday night, Nov. 26, against Purdue. 
1st SOURCE TRAVEL 
31ocations to serve you 
•Airlines 
*Tour Packages 

•Amtrack 
*Auto Rentals *United Limo * Hotel Reservations 


BAPIN HALL PECIC HALL HAGGAR COLLEGE Hours:8:30·4:45 Hours:8:30·4:45 Hours:8:30·4:30 
Phone: 239·7080 Phone 239-6682 Phone 284·5606 



Petal your Affection 
Dial: 283-4242 
~ 
Hours:12:30-5:30 
f] ~v~t:j~'~
Located in the basement \ ofLaFortune 



GARDENS 

PIZZERIA AND PUB 
. 
130 Dixie Way North Roseland, Indiana (across from Big C Lumber) 


277·4519 
FREE DELIVERY 
1 I• 
I ------------------------Monday 1 Wednesday sunday I I I 

I
I 16", 11tem 116", 1 item I 16", 11tem t'
i s6.95 1$6.95 •• $6.95 1: 

Call before 11 I Call before 11 1Call before 9:30 I 
PIRES 11/12/84 JEXPIRES 11/14/84 lEXPIRES 11/18/84 Jl 
' 
Blue 44, White 24 Blue (44) 
M  FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Ebben  14  4-6  2-2  7  0  10  
Botham  14  1·4  3·4  1  3  5  
Bates  0  1·5  6-6  4  8  
Keys  16  5·9  0-0  7  10  
Basford  20  0·2  2-2  0  2  
Willis  12  2-3  0·0  4  
Kaiser  9  3·4  1·1  2  7  
85 16-33 14-15  23  7  46  

FG Pet.· .485. FT Pet.· .933. Team rebounds­
1. Turnovers· 6. Assists · 7 (Basford 3). Techni· 
cats· None. White (24} 
M FG-A FT-A R F p Skieresz 17 2·6 2·2 0 I 6 Brommeland 18 2·3 0-0 3 3 4 Schueth 17 2·4 0·1 5 I 4 Dougherty 18 3-8 0-l 1 4 6 Thompson 14 1·3 2·2 2 4 Barron 8 0·1 0·0 0 0 Morrison . 8 0·0 0·2 0 1 0 100 10-25 4-8 11 12 24 FG Pet.· .400. FT Pet.· .500. Team rebounds­
0. Turnovers · 1 0. Assists · 3 (Thompson 2 ). 
Technicals ·None. Officials -Dave Diehl and Tim Van Duyne. 


MONDAY NIGHT IS ACTION NIGHT 
*All you can eat spaghettifor$2.491 
*2.50 pitchers! *50¢ piua slices during
gamet *Dart tournamentat 9pmwith cash prizel 2046 South Bend Ave. 272-4935 
Opus of Bloom County is pleilSed to ;mnounce the arrival of 8 great prod­ucts. T-shirts and jerseys that bOOm in full cok>r with Opus himself and a host of other popular characters (as featured on the best-seller, Loose Opus the lovable,now becomes Opus the hugable in 7" and 14" plush dolls by R. Dankin. Loose Tails. once a best-sener, has made room at the top o( the charts for 'Tcons for Our Times, the latest collection of Bloom County favorites featuring Bill the Cat and the whole Meadow gang. Begin your Bloom County collection today by completing the simple coupon below. 
Please Indicate size and quantity: 
S  H  L  XL  Price  Total  
rn  rn  rn  rn  8.95-­ 
rn  rn  rn  rn  IG.95  __  
rn rn  rn rn  rn rn  rn rn  8.95-­10.95--.  
rn  rn  rn  rn  5.95-­ 
Indicate number of items;  
D  6.95-­ 
D  10.00-­ 
D  18.00-­ 
Total  __  

Plus S1.50 per item lor postage & handling __ Grand Total __ 
Name------------Addreu City/State/Zip---------­
Allow 4-6 weeks for delivery. 
Bloom County T-Shirt Bloom ·county jersey Penguin Lust T-Shirt Penguin Lust Jeney Bloom County Book 
NEW ITEMS 
Toones lor the Times (Book ) Small Opus Doll Large Opus Doll 
Mail to: OPUS/The Observer 5<446 Highway 290 West Suite 301 Austin. Texas 78735 

.--------------------------------------------------------------------­



T0 day_____________________
M_o_n_d_a_y_,_N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_l_2_,_1_9_8_4__P_a_g_e_l_l 

Doonesbury 
1»1 5EI?/a.J5,.r.J. -NAPPUCI? 
70 TH~ 8AJ3Yme C£UE6C a: 
PH'/5/C/A/6, THE RN&5T NWMliiJ 
:cHXIL IN AU OF HAITI! 
\. 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 

011, IT'S II  I'M JOIN/116 
CONSI/fliP.5  I WOIILPN'T  '€M AU.  
NlbHTfMKt.  fAKt ANY  
1/JO MANY  CHANC£5.  
8RANP NAM€.5.  


\·""", 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  24 Quail  54 Bread  
1 Concluding  groups  55 Laugh 
musical  26 Bunny move  56 San Antonio  
passages  29 Mona- mission  
6 Hemingway  31 Gl service  59 Pole or  
epithet  grp.  Serb  
10 Soggy  32 US citizen  63 Med. school  
14 Verdi  34 Flood  course  
field  under  64 Small  
15 Upon  38 Become  66 Equine 
16 Revered  weary  mama  
figure  39 Enroll  67 Give off  
17 "Able was I  42 Mideast  68 Cut off  
ere I saw  prince  69 Variegated 
Elba," e.g.  43 Shocks  70 Gainsay 
19 Marsh bird  45 See 34A  71 File board  
20 Fitzgerald  47 Over and­ 
21 OldWorld  49 Scoop  DOWN  
wheat  holder  1 Get by  
22 Galway  50"-, look  2 Waterygem 
Isles  me over"  3 Wooded  
23 "All  51 Leguminous  hollow  
About-"  herb  4 14A solo  

5-Mateo 6 Grating 
cheese 7 Monad 8 Apple is 
one 
9 Synopsis 10 Repudiated 11 Love 12 Deadly eel 13 Schemes 18 Gadget 23 Gin's 
Whitney 25 Preceded CIA 26 Topper and 
fedora 27 Leave off 28 Andes 
state 30 Ludicrous 33 Made over 

Garry Trudeau 
I rxNTCAR&,Jf:AN
I miT 

HONEY. PJ&N&WHIM
KJ.DA/, 5/R. 

70 SHOJi!£ UPTH&
I'V&N&VER 

ftU(;TIJiq~ 5()(JAI)/
SED/GI?.4RE liK&lH5E. 
I 
ll•lil. 

"Mr. Fenton? First ol all, I wont to soy that It's all Carl Denham's fault. 'Wotchln' that machine,' I says to Carl, and ... wail, Carll You con talk when I'm through!" 
35 Chin. nurse  52 Hawaiian  
36 Small pest  veranda  
37 Hunted  53 Chicago 
beast  airport  
40 Great evil  57 Lemon kin  
41  Famed  58 Ugandan  
Damon  despot  
44 Take to  59 Turn back  
court  60 Notre·  
46 Malden  corded  
name word  61 State  
48 Swapped  strongly  
51  Bite  62 Extremely  
nervously  65 Utilize  

Friday's Solution 



Campus 
•12 
noon -Lecture, "Politician a'> Peacemaker," Governor Jack Gilligan, Room I 0 I law School, Sponsored by Center for.Social Concerns, Free. 

•12:
15-1:15 p.m.-Workshop, "Participation and Development: A New Look," Prof. Dennis Goulet, ND, Room 131 Declo Hall. 

• 
3:30p.m.-Faculty Seminar Series, "Poetry and Place," Prof. John Matthias, Room 219 O'Shaughnessy. 

•4: 
15 -6:15 p.m. -Lecture, "The Koran and Literature: Approaches for the Non-Muslim," Prof. Anthony Johns, Australian National University, Room 131 Declo. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Reilly Lecture, "Enzymatic Synthesis of Polsaccharides in Prokaryotes," Prof. Phillips Robbins, MIT, Room 123 Nleuwland, Sponsored by Chemistry Department. 

• 
5:15p.m. -Mass for Peace, Father Hesburgh, Sa­cred Heart, Sponsored by Center for Social Con­cerns. 


•6 p.m. -Student Senate Meeting, Room 234, 'CCE, Preview of Trustees' meeting. 
•7p.m.-Lecture-Reception, 
"Women in Leader­ship," Jane Byrne, Former Mayor of Chicago, Car­roll Hall (SMC), Sponsored by SMC Student Government , Free. 

•7 
p.m.-Psychology Career Night, 117 Haggar Hall, Sponsored by Psychology Club. 

•7 
p.m.-Meeting, Notre Dame Women's Caucus, 2nd Floor, Center for Social Concerns, All ND/SMC Student Welcome. 

•7 
p.m. -Angers Meeting, Family Lodging and Living Situations, Room .2·0, LaFortune. 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night FUm Series I, "Bitter Vic­tory," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7 
& 8:30p.m.-Social Concerns Film Series, "Union Maids," LaFortune Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m.-Lecture, "Soviet Invasion ofAfghanistan," Ahmadullah, Former Minister of the Interior of Af­ghanistan, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu· dent Activities Board. 

•8 
p.m. -Movie, "Failsafe," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free. 

•9 
p.m. -Monday NightFUm Series II, "Splendor in the Grass," Annenberg Auditorium. 




NEED A JOB? 

the S.A.B. is now hiring: in search ofa DRIVER 
• 
must be financial aid approved 

• 
stop by SAB offices for more info -2nd Floor LaFortune 



©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
ND/SAB Ideas & Issues Committee presents: 
AHMADULLAH AHMADULLAH 
the former Minister ofthe Interior of Afghanistan 
TOPIC: SOVIET INVASION FROM AN INSIDER'S 
... 
POINT OF VIEW Monday, November 12th ot 8 OOpm 1n L1brory Aud1tonum 


Monday, November 12, 1984-page 12 



Cross-country team qualifies for NCAA Championships 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 21st overall, with a time of30:41. He few years, but none have been able --~ ~ ....
&'
-.,
Sports Writer was closely followed by senior Tim to clear the final hurdle and qualify. Cannon, who had a 23rd place time "We've had the opportunity to 
The Notre Dame cross-country of 30:45. Senior co-captain Bill qualify the last three years, but we team had its pre-season hopes ful­Courtney finished in 38th place, never made it," Cannon said. "It was filled this Saturday at the University with a time of 31:05. Senior Ed Wil­our goal to make the NCAA's, and ac­of Illinois, as it finishc:d fourth at the lenbrink, the final scoring runner for hieving it is very fulfilling. It's a NCAA District IV QualifYing Meet the Irish, finished in 44th place in a dream finally realized." and qualified for th(~ NCAA Cross­time of 31:18. "Our main goal is to qualify, and it Country Championships. Senior co-captain Jim Tyler feels outstanding," Courtney said. 
The team totaled 131 points to placed sixth for the Irish and 56th "After so many years of our goal claim the fourth and final qualifying overall, with a time of 31:33. Junior being unfulfilled, it's a great feeling." spot in the district. Wisconsin had John Magill finished in I 12th place, "We did not run our best race of the top two finishers, which enabled with a time of 33:26. the year," Cannon said. "We're good the Badgers to win the meet with The Irish faced their toughest enough this year to run a so-so race only 57 points. The host team, Illi­competition of the year, but they and still be beyond ourselves in pre­nois, captured second place with still finished far ahead of the fifth­vious years." I00 points, while Michigan finished place team, Indiana, which had I84 The NCAA Cross-Country Cham­with a third-place total of IIS points. Besides Indiana, other top pionships will be held at Penn State points. teams in the 18-team field inlcuded on Monday, Nov. 19 at 11 a.m. As 

The Irish were led by freshman 16th-ranked Miami of Ohio, Ohio with the qualifying meet, the cham· Dan Garrett, who finished in 15th University, Illinois State, and Ohio pionship race will be 10,000 meters. place overall, with a time of 30:33 State. Cannon and Courtney think Wis­for the IO,OOO-meter course. His Qualifying for the NCAA Cham­consin may be the team to beat. high finish was good enough to pionships, which Notre Dame had Top-ranked Iowa State and Provi­qualify him as an individual even if not done since 1966, was the major dence will also provide plenty of the team had not made it. goal for the Irish this year. The Irish 
see IRISH page 9
Sophomore Mike Collins placed have had quality teams in the last 

Gold defeats Blue, 102-81 
Riv(~rs shines in intrasquad game 
ByJEFF BLUMB Hicks popped from outside on 13 104-56, last Nov. 25 at the ACC. Assistant Sports Editor of 17 tries for 27 Gold points to lead With all the scoring in last night's all scorers, while Price found his game, one had to wonder if defense 

It may have seemed that jerry spot 25 feet from the Blue basket has gone out the window this year. Tarkanian and the Runnin' Rebels of and nailed down 10 of 15. "Let me worry about defense," UNLV had brought their run-and­"Price and Hicks will get in an said Phelps. "I'll get it going. Up to The Notre Dame cross-country team achieved its yearlong goal gun basketball show to the ACC last even better groove because Rivers this point, we've been working a lot over the weekend, qualifying for the NC4A National Champion­night. But, in all truth. Tark the Shark will get them the ball," added on our offense and trying to get it to ships. The team did so by claiming thefourth andfinal qualifying was back in Las Vegas. Instead, Dig­Phelps. "The key to our success is spotat the District IVQualifying Meet at the University ofIllinois.
see RIVERS page 8 

ger Phelps took the harness off his getting 13 players to play with Dave Nick Schrantz recounts the weekend's action at left. Notre Dame basketball team as the Rivers." Gold stormed past th•e Blue, 102-81, In the 20-minute stop-time first 
Howard, Morrissey eliminated 
in the annual men's intrasquad half, the Gold -consisting of Jim game. Dolan and Ken Barlow at forward, The game marked the first chance John Bowen at center, and Hicks and 



Sorin, Stanford advance to final 
for Irish fans to wat<:h Dave Rivers Rivers at guard -gradually built up 

strut his stuff in a Notre Dame uni­its lead, finally widening the margin ByBRIAN McCARTIIY The threat apparently had ended and a two-yard gain by Dave Cow­form-and strut he did, racking up 25 to 20 points, 69-49, at halftime. Sports Writer when a fourth-down pass fell incom­den, Sorin faced fourth-down-and­points and nine assists for the Gold Twenty-t.'lree of the Gold's first­plete, giving the ball to Howard. two. Garrett got the call again and with a variety of slilck passes and half points came from the hands of The weather turned icy cold for Two plays later, however, Howard the Howard defense appeared to penetration moves. If the play of Hicks, with Rivers throwing in 19 of the second round of playoffs in fumbled the snap and Sorin again have him stopped at the line of Rivers last night was any indication his own. men's interhall football, but two had the ball on the Howard 20-yard­scrimmage but a great second effort of what this season holds for Notre The Blue -consisting of Matt teams, Sorin and Stanford, warmed line. allowed him to struggle for the Dame fans in terms of excitement, Beeuwsaert and Donald Royal at for­up enough to earn spots in next Sun­Garrett picked up I 0 yards on two needed two yards. taking a sedative might have to ward, .Gary Voce at center, and Dan day's championship game. In the carries but Howard's defense did not Howard refused to cfuit and Sorin become a pre-game ritual in order to Duff, Jeff Peters and Price sharing first game yesterday afternoon, Sorin yield another yard in three downs faced another fourth down on the prevent hyperactivity. the two guard spots -was able to stay downed Howard, 11-3, while Stan­and Sorin lined up for their first field three-yard-line. This time fullback 
But everyone km~w that Rivers closer in the IS-minute running­ford shut out Morrissey, 6·0, in the goal try of the year. Ignoring the Dave Boggio took the handoff and was going to be good. Perhaps the time second half, matching the second game. wind of the sleet, Jim Glennon hit plowed through for the score. LaBoe bigger story last night was the fine Gold's 33 points with 32 of its own. Sorin, who beat Howard for the from 27 yards out to give Sorin a 3-0 connected with Folstrom again for play of guards Scott Hicks and Peters got hot from the outside to second time this year, appeared lead. the two-point conversion and the Joseph Price. Both shot very well, spur the Blue attack with 22 points. ready to score on their first posses­In the second quarter, Howard's ll-3lead. Howard never threatened giving indications that they might be The 102 points scored by the sion. With tailback Sean Garrett run­Don Antrobus made a one-handed in the fourth quarter and Sorin is ready to · give Notre Dame the Gold was the first time an Irish team ning for 2 5 yards, Sorin drove the interception of a Sorin pass and now one victory away from a perfect outside shooting it often lacked last has hit ;riple figures since Notre ball45 yards to the Howard 20-yard­returned it 30 yards to the Sorin 35-season. season. Dame took apart St. Joseph's (Ind.), line. yard-line. Three plays later, on Stanford had not played a game in 
fourth-down-and-nine, Howard four weeks and the anticipation of punted the ball away. Sorin, though, the Morrissey game was evident in was called for roughing the kicker its emotional players and fans. The and despite the protests of the Sorin most emotional Stanford player, players that they had tipped the ball, without a doubt, was tailback Jack Howard had a first down on Sorin's Gleeson, who had 11 0 yards rushing 23-yard-Iine. on 19 carries. 
Again Howard failed to move the In the first quarter, Stanford ball against Sorin's tough defense. reached the Morrissey 25-yard-line 

·With 23 seconds remaining in the but on fourth-and-two, Gleeson was first half, Howard became the first stopped for no gain. The defenses team this season to score on Sorin as remained in control as the two Joe Riehl booted a 42-yard field goal. teams exchanged punts for the rest 
Heading into halftime, Sorin had of the first half. lost the spark it had shown early in The defenses were still playing the contest, but in the third quarter tough in the third quarter but Stan­it once again took control of the ford got the key break when a Mor­game. Sorin sacked Howard quarter­rissey punt traveled only 20 yards back Matt Kelty on first down for a against a strong wind. Stanford 1 0-yard loss. On second down, fol­returned the ball to the Morrissey lowing a IS-yard penalty, Howard 33-yard-line. tried to catch Sorin off-balance with Three straight handoffs to a quick kick. The manuever Gleeson, the last covering five yards, backfired when the kick was produced a touchdown. The snap on shanked out of bounds at the the extra point was fumbled and Howard 31-yard-line. Morrissey saw a chance for a 7-6 vic­
In the ensuing drive, Sorin con­tory. verted on three fourth-down con­In the fourth quarter, it was Stan­versions to put the game out of ford's turn to punt into the wind, and reach. On fourth-and-three at the they had even less success than Mor­24-yard-line, quarterback Tim rissey. Starting on Stanford's 30­
Howard defen.ters john Foryt, left, and Eric heads into next Sunday's championship game 
LaBoe hit Jim Folstrom for seven yard-line, Morrissey gained a first 
Zagroclzipursue cl Sorin ball carrier in yesterday's against Stanford, which edged Morrissey yesterday, 
yards at the I7-yard-line. After gains 
interball semt-flr.~al action at Stepan Field. Sorin 6-0. Brian McCarthy recaps both games at right. 
of four and three yards by Garrett see FOOTBALL page 10 
won tbe contest, II-3, to remain undefeated as it 







