-
~~~~~-~~-~­
Pope-page4 

VOL XVIII, NO. 141 the independent ~tudcnt nl'w~paptT ~en ing notrt danK and ~ailll man·~ MONDAY, MAY 7, 1984 

Alcohol policy gets mixed reviews from South Bend groups 
pects they are afraid minors will
By TIMOTHY GIANOTTI 
venture offcampus to drink and take to the streets drunk. 
The city of South Bend cannot It will create a "larger area ofcon­make up its mind about Notre gestion" at times when there is Dame's new alcohol policy. usually no traffic problem, Jackson 
On one hand, owners and said. managers of local bars think the Owner of Corby's, Harold A. policy will drastically increase the . Rowley, Jr., agreed. "It is going to circulation offalse identification and precipitate a number ofproblems." the number of minors in their es­The tavern industry has not had tablishments. 
SeniorStaffReporter 
many problems this year, Jackson 
On the other hand, Mayor Roger said. Alcohol-related vandalism and Parent feels the new policy is a violence is at a low. necessary step on the road to "a new "It has been a good year," he said. 
consciousness." One contributor to the an­
Assistant Manager of Bridget ticipated off-campus drinking surge McGuire's Filing Station, Greg Jack· will be the new identification sys­son, admits the new policyis going to tem at Senior Bar, said general make the tavern's job a lot tougher managerJohn Bowie. . 
than it presently is. A computer, similar to those "We are kind of disheartened presently stationed in the dining about the new policy," said Jackson. halls, will be installed to verify the
Democratic Senator Gary Hart ofColorado receives 
"We are going to be flooded with age of customers. he said. The new,
a T-shirlfrom Bernie Pellegrino, campus coordinator 
young people and fake !.D.'s." permanent student identification
for Hart's campaign, after Hart spoke to an overflow 
He said Bridget's tries very hard to cards wll feature a magnetized birth prevent illegal drinking, and he an­date which the computer will regis­ticipates a great challenge facing his ter.

Hart opposes Reagan economics 
security people next year. In addition to this, said Bowie, South Bend Police will be jacking Senior Bar will continue to require up patrols and watching local bars
in South Bend campaign speech 
see POLICY, page 5
much more closely, he. said. He ex-
By TOM MOWLE defense cuts because they are a "cut . provide the "new leadership" the AssistantNews Editor in pay and readiness and more into country needs. "The old approach of 

Committee requests
nuclear weapons this country simp­my own party," he added, was to 
Democratic Presidential hopeful ly doesn't need." promise everything to various con­Sen. Gary Hart of Colorado told an Hart supports a freeze on deploy­stituency groups in hope of putting overflow crowd at South Bend's ment and testing of nuclear together a winning coalition. But it 
more required courses 
Century Center Friday that Presi­weapons, "a ban on weapons in is not fair, nor is it wise government, dent Ronald Reagan's policies are an space, whether nuclear or non­to mortgage the future to pay for By SARAH HAMILTON University-required courses in its "economic Vietnam." nuclear, and an end to the prolifera­political generosity now." News Editor final report. An additional course in 
Besides the dangers of deficits, tion of nuclear technologies in the Hart concluded his 19-minute history/social science and one in Hart mentioned education, health third world." He does not support address by saying he offered the kind The Curriculum Committee fine arts/literature have been sug­care, defense and the nation's physi­Selective Service in its current form, of leadership that would "call forth recommended the addition of two gested for all students. cal plant as areas ofspecial concern. but would prefer some form of uni­the best in the American people." courses to the present 13 According to the report, concern 
The Senator cited a group of past versal service with no exemptions. was expressed during committee Secretaries of the Treasury who said This service would have a non­deliberations that "the arts should "a weakening economy in 1985 military option such as the Peace be better integrated into University
Questions on alcohol 
threatens to send the deficits Corps. life in general and specifically into soaring ...to S300 billion to S400 He promoted more spending in the curriculum." The committee billion in the late 1980's. education because "human minds discussed the need for one require­

answered by Hesburgh
The danger of such high deficits, and human skills are our most im­ment in literature and one in fine he said, is they "soak up capital, com­portant and most precious asset." He By KEITH HARRISON,Jr. make responsible decisions, said arts, but due to constraints on the pete with other borrowers for warned Reagan, "ifyou think educa­SeniorStaffReporter Hesburgh. "People say that we're curriculum, one course in either of money, and confuse the relationship tion is too expensive, wait till you taking away student responsibility," the two fields was considered suffi­between the dollar and other cur­see how much ignorance costs." "I think it's a very moderate said Hesburgh. "That's not true. The cient. rencies, to the point where it is vir­Hart said he would go beyond the policy," said Father Theodore Res­new policy gives people a chance to As the curriculum stands, a stu-· tually impossible for us to compete education progrms of the '60s and burgh, University president, refer­exercise some responsibility. Ifthey dent can graduate without taking a in world trade." '70s and increase teacher salaries ring to the new campus alcohol don't exercise responsibility, then social science class. This is also true 
Hart said the deficits are "stealing and training and "elevate the overall policy. we may have to take further action." for history. Recognizing this from our future" and the recovery quality of education." He said a Many people have misunderstood "What we're not doing is telling problem, the committee advised will be "paid for entirely out of the reduction to 70 percent from the the policy because they have not people to go break the law," said that the quantity ofrequired courses pockets ofcoming generations." current I 00 percent tax deduction read it, said Hesburgh, who spoke at Hesburgh. in these areas be increased to two. 
Continuing the theme of future on business lunches would "fully Cavanaugh Hall last night. Hesburgh also commented on the The curricular choice must con­generations, Hart added "if these finance the hot-lunch program and "When I first came here, we were student rallies and protests that have tinue because of the sizes of the deficits continue to grow as they add three million children to the at 'A,' which was totally dry," said recently taken place on campus. Al­departments as well as the limits of have, by the time your three-year­program." Hesburgh. "Then later we went to though he was not on campus at the the majors. old child is 18, she will have to earn More jobs would be created by in­'Z,' which was pretty wet. Now time of the rallies, he saw the televi­Another recommendation in the no,ooo a year just to pay his or her vestments in the physical structure we're going to 'M,' which is some­sion coverage of them. "I can say committee's report is "the lengthen­share of the interest on the national of the nation -bridges, roads, and where in between the two ex­that we have a great student body, ing of the time frame within which debt." dams -Hart said. More industrial tremes." they are intelligent, bright and ded­certain courses must be taken." 
Hart blamed Reagan for these growth would be promoted, he said, The new alcohol policy will not icated. The way they were portrayed "It was what we needed to do to problems, saying "the first thing we with tax reform that would "take the deny students the opportunity to is not the way they are," he said. let students have more freedom" in have to do is send Ronald Reagan premium off mergers, buyouts and Releasing the University fulf"Liling requirements said commit-back to the ranch for a well­runaway plants, and place it on directives the day after the an­
see CLASSES, page 6 
deserved retirement. I don't know if productivity and growth." nouncement of the alcohol policy 


he deserves it, but certainly we do!" After his speech, Hart specified "confused the issue," said Hesburgh. 
Hart outlined his solutions to the some proposals in this area, such as "You're talking about two things," deficit as requiring "sacrifice of all requiring three to six month he said. "First there is the policy it· Americans except those least able to notification before a plant closing self, which has been approved and is do so." He favors reversing some of and establishing an individual train­not negotiable. Then there are the the Reagan tax cut and postponing ing account for each worker which directives, which are the regulations tax indexing. could be used to pay for retraining which will be used to carry out the 
In defense, the Senator would can­or relocation ofthe worker. new policy," said Hesburgh. The cel the MX missile and the B-1 He felt SI 3 billion could be saved directives are being negotiated, and bomber, and stress "larger numbers by "reorganizing our health system, a final draft should be ready by sum­ofless costly weapons and readiness with a new concentration on mer, according to Hesburgh. for tbe kind of wars and missions preventive medicine and competi­Hesburgh discussed his role in the that are most likely to happen." He tion." 
see HESBURGH, page 4
criticized Reagan's proposed Hart said he would be able to 

Today's issue is the last Observer 1for this semester. Good luck on Finals and have an enjoyable sum­mer! 
The Observer Monday, May 7, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief ~ 
Dr. Robert A. Howland, professor of mechanical engint:ering, was named outstanding teacher ofthe year Friday night at the 1984 Honor Award Ceremony of the College of Engineering. Howland, whose classes include mechanics for sophomore en­gineers, was recognized for his. ability to teach beyond the equations and relate the systematic approach ofsolving engineering problems. Dean Roger Schmitz, who read a citation announcing the award, said Howland has earned the respect of h.is students by his open-ended office hours, wit and involvement in extra-curriculars. Also at the honors banquet, four senior engineering students -Anna Bleyer, Mark Kraemer, David Sarphie and Mary Sokoloski -were given the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner Prize, which annually honors the college's top graduates. Dr. Lionel Baldwin, dean of Colorado State Univer­sity's College of Engineering, was awarded the 1984 Engineering Honor Award. -The Obseroer 
Mishawaka police arrested a Notre Dame 
junior Friday afternoon at the University Park Mall when the student got into a fight with an off-duty South Bend police officer. Detective Sgt. Jerry Schroder said the student was arrested at 5:15 and was transferred to St. Joseph County Jail Friday night. Schroder would not elaborate on details of the incident. He said the off-duty policeman was working as a security officer for Hudson's Depart­ment Store. Formal charges are expected to be filed today. -The Obserr•er 
.Knute Rockne's bustis missing from its pedestal in the Rockne Memorial building. The bronze bust, which is about 24 inches tall, was made by N ison Tregor in 1940. -The Obseroer 
Didyou failto report some income, to claim tax credits or deductions, or errouneously claim deductions or credits to which you were not entitled on a previously filed federal income tax return? You can correct these errors by filing an amended return, the Internal Rev~nue Service said. The amended return is filed on Form 1040X, "Amended U.S. lndividuallncome Tax Return," and can be used to correct any previously filed Form I 040, I 040A or 1 040EZ. Form 1040X must be filed within three years from the date of the 
original return or within two years from the time the tax was paid, whichever is later. It is not necessary to file an amended return to correct addition and subtraction errors, or if you failed to submit a rl·quired schedule. Form 1040X and instructions may be obtained by calling the IRS toll-free at 1-800-424-1040. -The Obseroer 
The University Club at Notre Dame 
dosed this weekend while tests attempted to discover whether an employee might have transmitted bacteria during food handling or preparation. The investigation began after 33 of 36 members of the University's development department staff became ill after a lunch­con at the dub on April 27 with symptoms of nausea, vomiting and cramps. Members of another luncheon party on Monday also became ill. No one was hospitalized. john Deitchley, food supervisor for the St. Joseph County Health Department, said test results of employee stool cultures probably would not be completed until last night. The club manager said allegations offood poisoning reported in The South Bend Tribune have not been proven. -The Obseroer 
Of Interest ~ · 
Guest tickets for Commencementwill be 
available at the Registrar's office Wednesday through Friday. Each student must present his or her student (or other photo) I. D. card and a receipt showing he or she has rented a cap and gown. -The Obseroer 

Weather 


A 60 percent chance of showers 
and possible thunderstorms today. Breezy and mild with the high in the upper 60s to near 70. A 20 percent chance of evening showers tonight then clearing. Breezy and cooler with the low in the mid to upper 40s. Partly sunny, breezy and coolerTues­
day. High in the upper 50s to almost 60. -AP 
The. Observer 
The Observer ( { ~~ ~'!'! ~ 1000 l " puhli~ht'll Mum..I.J.y throu~h Friday and on honu· foolh;d( S.llurdapt, C.'Xt"l'pt dunn~ c.·xam and \'Jl at ion pt·riod... The Ob~erver h puhlt~ht·d h)" lht: _o,futkm' of tilt" l nivc:r_o,ily of ~ntrl" Danu· and ~JIIll .\1Jq ·.._ <.ullt·)(t.' ~ull'.,t:npllt»ll!'> rna\ ht· purchaM:d tor S2'i pt:r yc:ar ( S I~ pt:r 'crnc.·,ter) h\· "rifmJ.: Tht· ObNerver, P () Box<.). Nolrt: Damt·, lnd~;ma f(,~c;(J 
The Observer i!-1 a mcmht:r offhc A!'t· soclated Pres!'~~ ..A.II n·produnwn nght' .trc.·n·.,t..·i-n.-d · ' · '' 
Design Editor ............•................... Troy Illig Design Assistant........................ Paul Bruce Layout Staff.................•...•....... Cheryl Pilon Typesetters ........•............. Michelle and Ted S/t)/man .....................................Steve Foster News Editor.............................. Tom Mowle Copy Edltor.................................)ulle Smith Sports Copy Editor .................. Ed Konrady VIewpoint l.ayout ................)ohn Menncll Features Copy Editor.... ....... Mary Healy Features Layout... . ........ Liz Carroll ND DaJ' l;"ditor............................. Earl Baker SMC Day lidltor............. .........jody Radler Ati/Jeslgn .......... Bob Slota Photographer......... ............. Thorn Bradley 


Theology requirements misguided 

The Real World. 
The very idea is enough to send shivers down rhe 
spine ofany red-blooded Domer. Yet in a few weeks all 
of us will pack off into that world of unwashed dishes 
and unpaid bills-some ofus for good. 
Few would argue that Notre Dame is representative 
of the so-called real world. In the real world there are 
no parietals and no exams. And, everyone isn't Catholic. 
Roman Catholicism always has been an integral part of this University, and indeed this Catholic character, together with Knute Rockne and his football legacy, comprise Notre Dame in a nutshell. Without its out­standing Catholic tradition, Notre Dame just wouldn't be Notre Dame. 
This Catholic environment attracts many students to the University. Most appreciate the opportunity to grow in faith with others of their own religious tradi­tion. But in a school that's 92 percent Catholic, it's easy to forget other religions exist. 
Upon leaving the sanctity ofNotre Dame, we will have to deal with people who at-
Amy Stephan 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Monday 

religion. If one is unwilling to study Catholicism one should, perhaps, choose another University. 
As a Catholic university, Notre Dame certainly wants to promote Catholicism. Does it, however, want to promote narrowness as well? Yes, Yes, Yes!!! Byrestrict­ing our opportunity to study other theologies, these new requirements narrow the scope ofour education. 
To be Catholic is not to be exclusively Catholic. As a 
university which claims to provide its students with a liberal education, Notre Dame is obligated to allow and even encourage us to explore a cross-section of opinions and beliefs. 
Another probable result 
tend services, rather than of this new policy is a Mass, on Sunday. This will be decrease in the quality of in­a new experience for many struction in lower-level students who grew up in The new Catholic families and theology sequence will schools. force some professors to 
Many come to Notre teach out of their area ofex­Dame seeking to further pertise. For example, a their "Catholic" education. professor whose field is And there exists here many Asian religions might be opportunities to grow in forced to teach a lower-level faith as well as academics. Catholic theology or teach Can we, however, call our­only upper-level courses. selves truly educated if we Thus many non-theology
No llft'Pijer the hi9 (,.Ofj i"' a Mil~ f.>CMd... 
are ignorant of other beliefs and religious traditions? Apparently some members of the Theology Depart­ment think so. 
In case you haven't heard, the Department has recently changed its requirements. All studentsare now required to complete a two-course sequence in Cath­olic theology. 
Thus, students interested in studying other religious traditions will have to use an elective to do so. For en­gineers and others who have virtually no free electives, the opportunity to study Islam or Judaism has all but vanished. 
Since many students opt to take their second course in Catholic theology anyway, this requirement may seem rather insignificant. Consider, however, that this new restriction all but guarantees the vast majority of students graduating from Notre Dame will have had little or no contact with other religious traditions. 
Some will argue this is a Catholic university and as such has a responsibility to educate its students in this majors will be instructed by 
faculty members teaching outside their own areas of 
concentration. 
An educated person should at least be familiar with 
religious traditions outside his or her own, and a mem­
ber of society who seeks to understand and deal with 
others cannot be insensitive to their religious tradi­
tions. 
Students should be encouraged to explore and un­derstand other religions if they so desire. The Catholic tradition of Notre Dame will not be furthered, and Notre Dame's image as a fine university may actually be ·harmed by this limifon our opportunity to study other 
theologies. 
These requirements will only further the unrealistic 
image of an all-Catholic world. Protestants on campus 
(yes, there are some) complain other students 
automatically assume they are Gltholic. Some claim 
Catholic students demonstrate almost no knowledge of 
non-Catholic denominations. 
In a school where non-Catholics arc a minority, this is 
understandable. In the "real world," where Catholics 
are the minority, ignorance ofother religious traditions 
will appear as just that -ignorance. 
COUNSELINE A service to the NO community 239-7793 HOURS: 4-tOp"' Mon-Thurs. Counsehne '·• a free. confidential telephone service that offers prolessoonally taped materials that cover a wtde.vartP!~.!?.~.~.tudent concerns  
TAPENO TITLE t Fr.-Mshrp Bu•khng 7 Deahng w•tl'l Conllr~.~ettve CuiiCitm a O.attno wtth Anger i Undefttand•no Jaatouay ana How to o.at w•th H 1D "'-toS.y"NO. Ul Becorr .. ng Open to ()&hers ,. O.hng Slltlts lO An•..•w and Po111b.. Ways toCooe •111111 ll How to ONI Wttlt lonhtWts l3 tto. to Hand.. Feara lS lu11dtnQ Mll·llt"rn I Conltdt~ 37 .......ngblff(;tlft ll Coptng wttl'l Sltnl • fetnNSe• ~--ChanoM ana Siren 44 Leat"ntng to Accept YourMU t1 Wha! 11 Tl'lefiPY I How to UMII 83 How to Cope ••tt: • 8r~en AeJ.rlctnlhiJ) 85 UnderillndtnQ Guet to HetPII\9 1 Fuend 110 hrl~ ••ona ot •" Alcohol Prob'-"' Ult ~a•bJe OectltQna AboUt Dt1M1110 402 Seii·AIItlllt.,.nHS 431 Whll '' Oepren•on 432 How 10 Deal wutl'l Oeprna•on 433 Oepresaton as 1 Ltle Style 478 8ecommg tndepenoent hom Paren~.: 419 Delling wtlh AtcOholte Parents 491 Su•c•Ciat Crtsls 492 RecOQnll!'IQ Su•ctdll Potent tal tnOihets 493 Helpmg Som~ _I~ _I SUICidal CtJJ.II  
Counoellne lo a completely anonymouo oarv.ce ollered by the Counoallnv I Psycholovlcel Services Center. UND For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9-5 --CLIP AND SAVE-­...~· .. 'Ct' • ,. ~ , •••• ~ ••  


The Observer Monday, May 7, 1984-page 3 

Th~ Obsc:rver/Thom Bradley
Eating out 
Students got a cbance to eat Saturday luncb out­on Green Field. In addition to a variety offoods, pic­doors at a picnicput on byNotre Dame Food Seroices nickers were able to sample tbe music ofTbeLaw. 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN &[9; We are pleased to announce the following 1984 graduates of the University of Notre Dame have recently become associated with our firm: ATLANTA OFFICE Richard E. Paxton, BBA KANSAS CITY OFFICE William J_ Dawahare, BBA Audit Jean A. Yankee, MBA Audit Rusell M_ Rempala, MBA Tax John T. Gunning, BBA Consulting Audit Joseph S-Roveda, BS LOS ANGELES OFFICE Consulting Paul K. Vadnais, BBA BALTIMORE OFFICE Mary Kay Stangle, BBA Consulting John J. Ruhlmann, BBA Audit Audit Joseph H. Stephan, BBA MILWAUKEE OFFICE Audit Peter J_ Kerwin, BBA BOSTON OFFICE William G. Stotzer, BBA Audit Daniel E. Fitzsimmons, BBA Audit Audit NEW JERSEY OFFICE CHICAGO ­WORLD Timothy J_ Willis, BBA CHICAGO OFFICE HEADQUARTERS Audit Brian T. Burt, BBA Margaret E-Ford, BA Consulting Technical Services NEW YORK OFFICE William J_ Keneally, BBA Mark E. Buschman, BBA Audit CLEVELAND OFFICE Audit Christine L Callahan, BBA James H. Bares, BBA Audit PHILADELPHIA OFFICE Audit Mary Jane Costello, BBA David E-Campbell, BBA Ernest L Vallorz, Jr_, JD AuditAudit Tax Stephen P. Colbourn, BBA Consulting DALLAS OFFICE PHOENIX OFFICE Glen G. Gwarda, BBA Patricia M. Cooney, MBA John A_ Butler, BBA AuditConsulting Audit Kathleen M_ Coughlin, BBA Anne M. Drollinger, BBA PITTSBURGH OFFICE Audit Audit Keith p_ Creehan, BSJames M. Dee, BBA DENVER OFFICE ConsultingAudit J_ Michael Cornett, BBA Sally J_ Esposto, BBA Rian M-Gorey, MBA Tax TaxConsulting Mary E_ Lang, BSDaniel G-Hanigan, BBA DETROIT OFFICE ConsultingConsulting Joseph J_ McCarthy, BBA Timothy H. Hart, BBA Tax ROCHESTER OFFICE Audit Sharon J. Terpin, BS Mary E. Stevens, BBA James J. Herrmann, BBA Consulting Audit Audit Peter B. Holland, BBA HARTFORD OFFICE ST. LOUIS OFFICE Audit Theodore J. Haussler, BA Mary C. McCown, BBA Michael L. Howard, JD Consulting Audit Tax Frederick J. McCarthy, BA Christopher J. Stephen, BS John M. Kuhns, BS Consulting ConsultingConsulting James D. Stapleton, BBA Robert F. Lutz, BBA TAMPA OFFICEAuditAudit Laura M. Cuffe, MBA Lucy A. Mills, BBA HONOLULU OFFICE Consulting Audit Celeste V. Oda, BBA Judith D. Murtagh, JD WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICEAudit Tax Kevin G. McCarthy, BBA Daniel K. Nelson, BBA INDIANAPOLIS OFFICE Audit Audit Kevin P. Killilea, BBA Audit n...a ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co. 33 WEST MONROE STREET, CHICAGO, IL 60603 (312) SSQ-0033  

Police ticket students in tavern raids Friday 
Special to the Observer 
Thirty-seven tickets were issued, some to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, and a tavern owner was arrested late Friday when In­diana State Police excise officers and South Bend police raided Corby's Tavern and Bridget McGuire's Fill­ing Station. 
Sgt. Greg Deitchley, an excise of­ficer said he did not have figures to break down the citations between students and local residents. 
Deitchley said the 37 tickets in­cluded citations for underage drink­ing, possession of false identification, and consumption of alcoholic beverages by a minor. He said 29 youths were given citations for violations of state liquor laws. Some received more than one cita­tion. 
Harold Rowley, the owner of Corby's Tavern, was arrested and charged with interfering with a police officer. He was released Satur­day morning from the St. Joseph CountyJail. 
Deitchley said Rowley "became beli'igerent" while police were trying to conduct their investigation at Corby's Tavern. He said when Rowley "got in the way" ofthe inves­tigation, he was arrested. 
Deitchley said the youths were taken to the main South Bend police station to be given citations, but were not arrested. He said the local residents were released to their parents. 
Those given citations will have to appear within five days in traffic and misdemeanor court, where they could be fined, Deitchley said. He said they might have to appear in In­dianapolis before the Indiana Al­coholic Beverage Commision (ABC). 
Deitchley said the raids were part of Project SUDS (Stop Underage Drinking Sales), which is a program ofthe governor's task force on drunk driving. 
Deitchley said one of the goals of Project SUDS is to combine the ef­forts of local and state law enforce­ment agencies. 

Senator expects FCE minimum to be passed 
ByJOHN MENNELL 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Enough Faculty/Course Evalua­tion forms should be returned to satisfy student government officials and legitimize a report to be published next year. 
In an Observer article Friday, Bob Riley, former District Two senator who organized the survey, said at least 40 percent needed to be returned. Last night he told The Ob­server, "I'm not worried that we can get the 40 percent." 
Although he cannot determine the full effect ofthe Observer article and a letter sent to all students over the weekend asking for support, Riley expects them to help. 
Ifless than 40 percent of the sur­veys are returned, an attempt will be made to publish the report for cer­tain classes where there was enough response. 
Riley emphasized the problem with mail clerks not putting the forms in the boxes. "We took the time to put the labels on the en­velopes so they would get delivered," he said, "We wanted to make sure everyone got one." Some clerks delayed a few days but got them delivered. The only hall with a major delvery problem was Alumni. 
Riley had harsh words for the Alumni mail clerk, Mike James, who was the head of the Senior Fellow Committee. In Alumni, the forms were thrown in a pile and discarded a few days later when they were not picked up by students. "We worked long and hard to get these out," Riley said. He said he was dis­appointed the process was inter­rupted by someone n_ot doing a job he was paid to do. 
Alumni residents who wish to fill out a form but did not receive one should contact student government offices, Riley said. The cost of the survey was approximately S1000, according to Riley. "Other schools may spend 30 times as much and have paid staffs," he said. "The form was small and incomplete but it was the best we could do with our budget." The report based on the survey will be published sometime next year but details are not yet finalized. 

Du Lac report released. 
ByDAN McCULLOUGH 
News Editor 
The purpose ·oftheJudicial Coun­cil's report on Du Lac, the Notre Dame guide to student life, is "basically to give the administration an idea of how the students felt about it and to show we felt it could be improved," explained Bill Ber­gamo, a member ofthe council's Du Lac Review Committee. 
The report was released yester­day. 
Bergamo explained the Judicial Council reviews the Notre Dame book of rules and regulations every few years to give it student input and make it more applicable to current situations. In reviewing the current handbook, Bergamo said the com­mittee "reworded some ofthe rules" and made some recommendations on changes ofcurrent rules. 
One ofthe immediate concerns of the committee was to match the punishment to the offense, said outgoing Judicial Council Coor­dinator Bob Gleason. "Du Lac for­merly never tied the punishment to the rule," he said. To correct this, Gleason said the committee has recommended the punishment be placed in bold print directly beneath the rule. "Whether you agree or dis­agree with a penalty, the student should know what the penalty is for breaking a regulation." 
From the committee, the report is given to members of the administra­tion, including Dean of Students James Roemer and Vice President for Student Affairs Father John Van Wolvlear. 
Among the recommendations of the committee, the sentence, "The University rules set few limits on stu­dent behavior precisely because there are more positive reasons for the students to do that themselves," is recommended to be removed from Du Lac's preamble to "better preserve the credibility ofthe entire section." 
Commented Bergamo, "Incoming freshmen read that and then con­tinue to read the rest of the pages of rules and they're going to think, 'Who are they trying to kid?' " 
The report also comments on stu­
dent conduct away from campus. 
.. "'."' '' .......... t •• -..... .
.. .. . .. .. .
..................... . ~ •....... ~ .... -•• t , ••• ,. ' •• ' • \ ' 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Monday, May 7, 1984 -page 4 
Pope threatened with toy pistol 


Local veteran supporting increased help for disabled veterans in House 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea As HOO,OOO people watched yesterday, Pope John Paul II canonized 103 martyrs, including Korea's first saints, in a tribute to the country's w-owing Roman Catholic Church. Before the ceremony, police seized a student who brandished a toy pis­tol at thl· pope's motorcade. 
The pontiff, on an 11-day pilgrimage to Asia, heads to New Guinea today after his five-day stay in South Korea. 
Applause from the throng in Yoido Plaza, and shouts of"Mansei!" or "Live 10,000 years!" greeted the smiling pope as he arrived for the canonization ceremony. He bega~ 
By KEITH HARRISON,jr. 
SentorStaffReporter 
President Reagan "wants to send 

you young people all over Central 
America, hut he sure as hell doesn't 
give a damn about taking care of 
veterans," said Steve Marozsan, 
chairman of Veterans For Constitu­
tional Rights, Inc. 
Marozsan, a veteran from South Bend, was referring to Reagan's lack of support for a legislative bill that "would give veterans the rights ...that every Amercan citizen has," he said. 
The bill, which is being co­sponsored by presidential candidate Gary Hart, has two aims. 
First, it would give veterans the ability to appeal to a federal court if they disagreed with a Veteran's Ad­ministration decision. The VA decides whether or not a disabled veteran is eligible for monthly com­pensation for his injuries. 
Under the present law, a veteran may only appeal to the Board of Veteran Appeals, which is part ofthe VA. 
The problem with the VA, said Marozsan, is they work under a quota 1>-ystem. "Each year, only 12 

Resburgh 
continuedfrom page 1 
formulation ofthe policy. "I played a very active role," he said. "I met with 
the Officers of the University, I met 
with the University Trustees, and I met with the chairman of the com­mittee, Father Beauchamp, several 
ti~~~·;dn't meet with the whole al­
coho! committee because if you
send a group of people to do a job, 
:~~~you let them do it, " Hesburgh 
Responding to the charge that allowing tailgaters at Green Field contradicts the idea that drunken­ness is immoral, Hesburgh "We're not allowing drunkenness at tailgaters. We're assuming that stu­dents will show responsibility." 
If the students do not responsibility, "they will be corted away from the stadium," said Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh did not spend time dis<:ussing the controversial new definition of a party. whole matter is being negotiated," he said. 

Trapped! 
It's coming . 

the Mass by delivering briefreadings 
in the Korean language. 

"How long have we waited for this day. How fervently we have prayed for this moment to arrive," said Car­dinal Stephen Kim, the Roman Cath· olic Archbishop of Seoul, in an emotional welcome. 
The canonization of 93 Korean and I 0 French martyrs slain in Korea, the first such ceremony outside the Vatican since the 13th century, was hailed by the Vatican as the pontiffs "personal tribute" to the world's fastest growing Roman Catholic Church. 
The church, which has been gaining members at an annual rate of nearly 10 percent for three decades, has I.7 million adherents among South Korea's 40 million people. 
In his homily, John Paul said the 
percent of all claimants are granted compensation," said Marozsan. "They follow that quota religiously." 
Second, Hart's bill would increase a veteran's chances ofwinning an ap­peal within the VA, said Marozsan. Under a present law, written in 1913, if a veteran wishes to hire a lawyer for his hearing at the Board of Veteran Appeals, the most the attor­ney is permitted to charge is $10. 
Few lawyers will work for this fee, maintains Marozsan. Hart's bill will let the lawyers charge up to 25 per· cent of the award the veteran is seeking. 
The bill has been passed un­animously by the Senate, but has not yet been voted on by the House of Representatives. The reason for this, said Marozsan, is that the bill must frrst go to the House Veteran Affairs Committee. 
"This committee is staffed by ex­
:

Applications for 
t 
t

AN TOSTAL CHAIRMAN 
t 
t 

are available at Student Activities 
t 

Programming Board and will be due by 5 p.m. 
t 

TOMMORROW 
t 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• t , 
: GR'rvuou·•rn Wl.ll be on the • ' 
l:j • J .1."111. 

• ..A y 9 nd ..A y 11 •• t 
: CampUS .l."•I'S a .l."•I'S ' : t : 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. to send your : t , •• trunks and bo-es p•epa•·... or •• ' 
..,. • ' U 
: collect behind the Bookstore.: 
e • 
·····························­
: 
f t 

:...t·~·..;.w·.,..._.~,....,.~rw-w-=--:.a ·-.--..-..-....,.~ =--~1 
"splendid flowering ofthe church in 
Korea today is indeed the fruit ofthe 
heroic witness of the martyrs," and 
the Korean church "deserves full ad­
miration by the entire church." 
Wearing red and gold silk vest­ments patterned after "koryongpo" used by Korean kings for special ceremonies, the pope stood on a platform built in the shape of an alpha and omega, first and last letters of the Greek alphabet, representing the beginning and the end. A giant white cross towered overhead. 
Earlier, the pope was on his way to a prayer service at Myongdong Cat­hedral in Seoul when a man leaped from the crowd lining the curb, brandishing a toy pistol. 
Witnesses said he fired the toy once or twice. 
VA officials, and they have 
pigeonholed the bill," said Maroz­
san. 
The national media poses another problem, according to Marozsan. "The South Bend Tribune and the lo-.... cal television stations have done ' their job, but we can't get the story t out of South Bend," he said. "In ef­feet, the national news media has t 
~~~;:?anironcurtainaroundSouth.! 
One place where Marozsan has ' found help is at the University of a Notre Dame. Marozsan brought his : case to Father Don McNeill, director ' 
of the Center for Social Concerns. 
McNeill notified the Law School at 
t the University, and an article on A veteran's rights soon appeared in the ' 
school's]ournal ofLegislation. t 
"The only problem with that ar­tide is that it's not getting into the t hands ofthe public," said Marozsan. t 
,O.P Photo 
Popejohn Paul II is shown here during a moment ofreflection while meeting with clergy and others at Sogang University in Seoul, South Korea, Saturday. The pope visited the country to canonize 103 martyrs in a tribute to Korea's rapidlygrowing Cath· olicpopulation. 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~..-..~ ~ ~ ~ ......t 
CORKTOWNE LIQUORS, INC t
t
1891 South Bend Ave. t "End of School Sale" ' 
LIQUOR SPECIALS 7 Crown 1.75 
Ron Rico Rum 1.75 
Canadian Mist 750 ML ·Fleischmann Vodka 1.75 
Ushers Scotch 1.75 Jack Daniels 750 ML 
WINE&CHAMPAGNE Gallo Premium 1.5 Carlo Rossi 4L Frexinet Semi Seco 750 Zonin Asti 750 M &R Asti 750 Andre Champagne 750 J Roget 750 
BEER Budweiser 20L 
Michelob 6NR Strohs 24L Old Milwaukee 24L 
Milwaukee's Best 24L Miller 24L 
KEGS Old Milwaukee YzB Busch YzB Michelob YzB Lowcnbrau YzB Generic YzB Bud V..B 
WE HAVEALL YOUR GRAD PARTY f 
Clip ~-'  . NEEDS!!! thi$. ad and show DAD Indiana LOWSPIRIT PRICES!  t t t  
:  

' 
t 
a 
$10.99 ' 
a $10.99 ' 
$4 99 t
• $7.88 f 
A 
$12.99 ' $7.88 f 
, : $3~19 · t $4.79 ' t $3.99 t $4."99 t $7.96 t $2.29 t $2.99 t 
t 
$7.99 t $9.99 $7.49 
t 
$5.99 
t
$4.99 t 
$7.99 
t 
t 
$24.99 t $30.99 t $37.99 t $38.49 t $23.99 
t 
$22.99 
t t t t 
The Observer Monday, May 7, 1984 -page 5 

Magician Gary O'Brien performs a trick at a benefit show for Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life yesterday in the Library Auditorium. Here, be appears to be regurgitating a roll of toilet paper. 
Red Eyes? Can't Think? 
Need A Break? Relax. 
and order a DOMINO'S Pizza. 
We are open for lunch during 
Finals. Call 277-2151 to order. 30 minute service guaranteed 

---------------------------------------,I 
I


END OF SCHOOL 
I





SALE I I 
at DICK'S STANDARD 1102 So. Bend Ave. 234-0707 
free Alignment Disc Brake Special with purchase $29.95 most cars ~ of two tires 
~ Pre-Season Air Conditioner Servicing $9.95 plus Parts 
University to pass Observer budget 
ByJEFF HARRINGTON 
Senior StaffReporter 
The University will approve The Obseroer's first full-year budget plan since the newspaper joined Notre Dame's accounting system this semester, Father David Tyson, ex­ecutive assistant to the president, said yesterday. 
"I hope to have it finaJly approved 
(today) or Tuesday. I think our 
accounting people were very 
pleased with it," said Tyson, who 
acts as The Observer's budget unit 
director. 
Observer fmances were officially placed under the Budget Unit Con­trol System Feb. 1, nearly five months after the University ordered the paper to join its internal budget system or face the cutoff of ap­proximately 570,000 in student fees. The request came in the wake of a University-conducted audit of the paper last summer which revealed several cases of financial mismanagement in the '82-'83 Ob­seroer operation. 
The paper's operation under the 
new system has been "working very 
effectively," Tyson said. "I have 
heard of no complaints. We tried to 
talk out the snags .. .in earlier 
meetings." 
Observer officials, however, are 
still wary ofUniversity financial con­
trol. ''I'm not happy to be on the 
Budget Unit system, but at this point 
in time it's a necessary evil," Ob­
server Editor-in-Chief Bob Vonder­heide said. 
Noting the paper had "no choice"but to join the University system, Vonderheide said the ques­tion of financial control dictating editorial content still remains. "A newspaper whose finances are con­trolled by an organization it normal­ly scrutinizes is not an independent newspaper. It's conceivable that the University will interfere with the editorial side of The Obseroer. We look in our files and find that in 1975 they confiscated Observers for run­ning an abonion ad ...How can we trust them?" 
Vonderheide added, "As of now, we've been pleased with the Univer­sity's conscious desire to stay out of the editorial (side of the paper). It's been working up to now, but we're still kind ofcautious." 
Maripat Horne, Observer control­
· ler, agreed. "We haven't had any problems yet with (the University) questioning how the money is being spent. I feel that if they wanted to, they could easily dictate editorial control, but I don't foresee such a problem." 
Tyson said he "would be surprised if (The Obseroer) said there would be any interference be­cause of financial control." The im­passe earlier in the semester was clearly the University saying finan­cial accountability and coming un­der the system were separate from editorial control. 
TRUCK LEASING, INC. 710 N. Niles Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-5871 c ·o .HERTZ N _p_ENSKE G R JBUCKSA T Special Discounts for N.D. and SMC Students u Must book 7-10 days in advance $100 DEPOSITREQUIREDL A TIONS CLASS OF '84  

ARTHUR ANDERSEN &£9; 
We are pleased to announce the following 1984 graduates of Saint Mary's College have recently become associated with our firm: 
CHICAGO OFFICE 
Janet M. Alberti, BBA 
Audit 
Cynthia C. Hennessey, BBA 
Audit 
Cynthia A. Shary, BBA 
Audit 
Both parties rank the role offinan­cial aid for Observer employees as the key problem yet to be solved. The federal government requires students to report all income earned to determine their aid packages. Un­der the Budget Unit Control System, some students have had their loans reduced since the University now has access to Obseroer employees' earnings. 
"The (financial aid) problem still exists ....There is nothing I know of the University can do to be of as­sistance because of federal laws," said Tyson. "The problem is that when University checks are issued, we're accountable with respect to financial aid." 
Vonderheide agreed the "biggest problem" inherent in the budget unit system is the financial aid rift. "I can't foresee it being a major problem but it will cause some headaches .... For the vast majority ofpeople up here it will never cause a problem." 
Vonderheide was optimistic The Observer would eventually gain financial independence from the University. Calculating the newspaper would make 525,000 this school year, he said The Ob­server is "not going to be on (the University budget system) forever. If we continue to make $25,000 eventually we'll be at a point of being independent." 
"That's the bottom line: to even­tually handle everything on our own." 
Concerning the right of The Ob­server to one day take itselfoffofthe budget unit system, Tyson said, "That's one ofthose 'what if kind of things ....What if The Obseroer becomes financially independent? It would have to be examined at the time." 
"I hope The Observer will see ( lhe 
University budget system) as more 
ofa benefit than a detriment." 



Policy 
continuedfrom page I 

two pieces of identifcation from every customer. "We are going to be tough," Bowie said. 
But Senior Bar will not be insen­sitiveto students' needs, Bowie said. Every Saturday night will be a non­alcoholic night at the bar, and stu­dents of all ages will be welcome to dance, use the game room, and or­der food and soft drinks. 
"They will be fun," said Bowie, "but the students will have to decide 
• for themselves what their idea offun· is." Mayor Roger Parent agreed. He traced a metamorphosis within the community of South Bend, and, in his eyes, the University is just begin­ning to follow suit. He stated there has been an insen­sitivity toward alcohol usage and alcohol abuse in the past, but it is changing. "Society is trying to turn itself around," said Parent. "There is a deepening concensus to help those who abuse." Agraduate student at Notre Dame for three years, Parent holds strong convictions concern· ing the duty ofthe University. 
~'The university is an institution to train the mind," Parent said. "I can­not think of anything more destructive to that process than al­
cohol abuse."

Tune-Up Special 
Oil & Lube Specia~ 
Although he was not consulted in
1 

ST. LOUIS OFFICE 
4cyl 14.50 
the formation of the policy, Parent
$9.95 
II 

Mary P. Golden, BBA 
feels a personal responsibility
6 cyl. 18.50 
Audit
lOW-40 with coupon I 
toward the Notre Dame community. 
"I would like to meet wth student ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co. leaders and panicipate in encourag­
8 cyl. 22.50 I 
FREE Car Wash I 
ing students not to abuse alcohol," 
33 W. Monroe Street, Chicago Ill. 60603 he says. "We want to be good neigh­
· must bring coupon 1 
(312) 58D-0033 bors, and we want reciprocal ac­
.·L·--------~r!?~}'~.a:.'~~~--~_J ~;;:;:;:;::;::;:::;:;;:;;:;::.;;:;;::;:::::;:::;:::::;::::::::;;:;::¥~~~~~~~~~~ ••, tion." _........................ .............. 
.. .. .. "" .................. "' ......,. . . ·'·· •'• ......... -.... -................. -'-.... '-~" ,_...._.._, ,_.. _....... _.._._._,_, ... . 

The Observer Monday, May 7, 1984-page 6 

Hesburgh favors LaFortune work 
By MARK POTIER 
Copy litlttor 
lfnivc:rsity Prc:sident Fathc:r Thc:odorc: Hc:shurgh had some: good nc:ws last night ahout the proposed rc:novation of LaFortune Student Cc:nter. llt:shurgh said, "We'll see what it's going to cost, and I'll just have: to go out and raise the monc:y." Last wc:c:k in an interview, Executive Assistant to the: President, Father David Tyson, had called money a "major ohstack" for the proposed 
renovations to the student center. 
lleshurgh, spt·aking in an inter­

view last night in Cavanaugh Hall, 
where he said Mass, appeared quite 
supportive: of the: plan to renovate 
Lafortune. "I asked Tyson to put 
plans togc:thc:r to do what they can 
to the huilding from top to bottom. I 
told him to see what you can do with 
it in the most creative and im­aginative way possible," Hesburgh said. Last week a committee of five ~tudents and Director ofStudent Ac· tivities James McDonnell gave Tyson a set of ideas for the renova­tion ofLaFortune. 

Murday report studies quality of student life 
By ROBERT SIENKIEWICZ 
StaffReporter 
"Administrators arc singled out from faculty mc:mbcrs and hall rec­tors, apparently because of the at­titude students perceive .... Grantt·d, the University is not a democracy hut students need to have a sense that their opinions are respected," states the Notre Dame Student Life Needs Assessment Report. 
A study of student life was made during the Spring of 1982 with the cooperation of the University ad­ministration. The rcst·arch was con­ducted through the University of South Carolina's Psychology Depart· mcnt to ensure objectivity and con­fidentiality. 
The report, written hy David Murday, was requested by Notre Damt· Studt·nt Government. In 

Classes 
continuedfrom page I 
tee member and Chairman of the 
Aerospace  and  Mechanical  
Engineering  Department  Albin  
Szewczyk.  

In agreement with the Philosophy Department, the Committee advo­cated the University requirement in Philosophy become a two-semester introductory course. Because the two semesters would, in effect, be one course, the committee recom­mended that two semesters be taken within the first two years ofstudy in consecutive semesters. 
Presently, most students fulfill their natural science requirement in the freshman year. Easing this re· quirement, the committee recom­mendt·d the courses in science be completed hy the end ofsophomore yt·ar. There wao; some discussion of adding a third required course, but tht·re was not t·nough support to make such a change. 
The present curriculum demands students take two semesters of marht·matics in their freshman year. The committt·e's report proposes that only one semestt·r must he taken in the first year, but both must be satisfied by the end of the sopho­more year. 
The committee proposed that the frrst Theology required course cover tht· critical study of scripture 
Last night Tyson said the plans are now being worked on by the ar­chitecture firm of Cole Associates Inc. Cole · Associates have done 
"most ofthe renovations on campus, including all of the dorm renova­tions," Tyson said. The architects arc now working up a general plan to present to the Officers ofthe Univer­sity. Once the Officers approve a plan, the architects have to convert the general plan into specifics. Tyson said, "That part generally does not take as long as making up the initial general plan." Tyson es­timated last week it would take "three to four weeks" for the ar­chitects to draw up the initial plans." 
Hesburgh said, "I've been talking 

about  this  (the  renovation  of  
Lafortune)  for  months,  but  it  
doesn't  seem  to  move  too fast  at  

times." Tyson stated, "I'm hoping and I think Father Hesburgh is too that if the initial plans are done in June we can get them approved in June." Tyson said the time the plans are approved "depends on who of the Officers is around during the 
the administration's eyes, however, 
this objectivity and confidentiality 
was not ensured. According to 
Director of Student Activities Jim 
McDonnell, "I felt that the report 
was hasically a conflict ofinterest." 
McDonnell went on to cite the relationship between the '81-'82 student body president, Don Mur­day, and the writer of the report, Dave Murday. "When you're the stu­dent body president trying to bring about some change, you can't get your brother to conduct a study." 
According to Murday, it took five months to complete. The research, which took place between january and May, included structured inter­views, a survey ofselected students, faculty, and administrators, and a later survey of a random sample of students, faculty, and ad­ministrators. 
Christian thought and life. This recommendation was made in ac­cord with those offered by the Theology Department. Students will have to begin satisfying their Theol­ogy requirement within the first two years, according to the recom­mended changes. 
The proposed requirement in fine arts or literature and the additional requirement in history or social science can be satisfied at any time. No changes were suggested in the structure of Composition and Literature, Freshman Seminar, Physi­cal Education or ROTC require­ments. 
Provost Timothy O'Meara, wh< organized the committee during tht Spring semester of 1983, said now that the committee's report is com­pleted, it will be sent to various uni­versity councils including all of the College Councils and the Faculty Senate. Input will be directed to the Executive Committee of the Academic Council. The report will then be discussed by the Academic Council. 
According to O'Meara, "The Academic Council is the main body on curriculum." The decision of the Academic Council will become policy "for all practical purposes." Of t'ourse the University president will have to give his approval, but "I cannot ever recall the presiden· going another way," said O'Meara. 
Commenting on the report, the provost said,"l think it's a good report, hut I don't want to go into 
summer." But he added, "we can pass them around even ifeveryone is not here and so get approval for them." Although no work can start i.tntil the plans are approved by the Officers, Hesburgh said that is "no big problem." He said, "We can go over the plans quickly. If they are good we can approve them as soon as we have them. It could take five minutes in a meeting." 
Hesburgh said, "Assuming I have 
the money, we want to do whatever 
we can this summer." Tyson said, 
"Some of the work can be started 
this summer, but I'm doubtful that 
any major reconstruction or renova­
tion could be started and completed 
during the summer." He cited, 
"some of the plans groups have for 
moving and some of the painting on 
the first floor" as work that could be 
completed this summer. 
Hesburgh thinks the renovation 
will be expensive. He said, "It will 
probably cost at least a million dol­
lars." He intends to get involved 
with the fundraising for the project. 
He said, "I'll just have to go out and 
fmd someone willing to part with at 
least a million dollars." 
Hesburgh said, "We have lots of 
space we can make use of, lets see 
what we can do with it." As an ex­
ample he said, "We have a full floor 
of social space in both of the 
Pasquerillas but I've gone through . 
there when there has been no one in 1 
there." 
Speaking to a group ofstudents in 
Cavanaugh's study lounge last night 
Hesburgh claimed, "I said to Tyson, 
for the love of Mike, let's get that 
place fixed up, lets go from top to 
bottom and see what we can do with 
it and let's not just put bandages on 
the place." 
...................................,_............ 
Roc.co's Hair · 
" 
Styling 
io!'">,~-%'•!dl' 
531 N. Michigan St., ~ Phone 233-4957 •
IS:I.................................................. 
A.J.S. Shipping and Packaging 
You wrap or we wrap 3617 Mishawaka Ave. Mishawaka at Logan Mon. -Fri. 8:30-5:00 We Ship Exclusively UPS 
50 OLO OFF ALL ITEMS 
7~ IN THE STORE 
Except New Goods: 10% Off These Items 
Saturday, May 12 _ 9:00-5:30 p.m. -GOODWILL· 

'IlK O~r/Thom Bndky
ARoseytime 
Rosey Grier,Jormerdefensive linemanfor tbe LosAngelesRams, spoke in tbe A.C.C. pit and in tbe Library Auditorium over tbe weekend. Grier, who is alsofamedfor his needlepoint work, spoke to a group ofhigh schooland college athletes about commitment. Tbe talks were sponsored by tbe Spiritual Rock ofNotre Dame and Tbe Christian Center Youtb. 

ATTENTION SENIORS Wondering what to do during Senior Week? Come to the 
WEDDINGLESS RECEPTION at Erskine 
Tues., May 1510 p.m.-2 a.m. 
*Tickets must be bought in advance *$6 per person for food, dancing, and OPEN BAR *On sale at N.D. Student Activities May 8, 9, 10 from 8 a.m.-5 p.m. May 10 from 7-9 p.m. *On sale at SMC May 8, 9,10 S-7 in LeMan's Lobby 
Any Questions?? Call Anne at 7879 Couplesprefe"ed, butnot necessary or Maryalice at 1708 
and the doctrinal development of the details right now." He wants to 
Across from Nickle's
Eddy and Howard Streets
the first five centuries of the Chris­wait until the report is discussed by tian era. The second course should the Academic Council. O'Meara 
focus on a single doctrinal theme or predicted that discussion will be group of themes which deal with I~Rg&lt)lt.----·--____ _._---------,;.r~------,._,J""JOl.Jir-...,--~··· 
The Observer Monday, May 7, 1984-page 7 

Professor's Apple program bought 
By NANCY HUET 
News Staff 
While most students bring apples to teachers, this time the teacher brings an "Apple" to the students. 
). Philip Bays, professor of Chemistry at Saint Mary's, has created a computer program for use on Apple computers. Bays has created a way to improve under­standing and to practice applying the technique of molecular stereoc­hemistry. 
Bays wrote a computer program which deals specifically with these concepts of organic chemistry. Compress, a chemistry computer programming company in New Hampshire bought it and is now marketing it as an instructional package. 
-

The program, entitled "Organic Stereochemistry," illustrates three­dimensional features of organic molecules. The package includes a tutorial which defines terms and gives examples. It also features some practice problems which cor­respond to these concepts. 
Bays said this program is advan­tageous to "both students and professors." It allows students to receive a complete set of instruc­tions and to see 3-D displays that are not possible to illustrate in the class­room, he said. It also provides access to an infinite number of randomly generated drill problems. 
This technique is an effective way to provide organic students with drills on 3-D molecular chemistry that are not available in textbooks, he said. 
-

r--------------------~-------, 
~ I Enjoy Barclay's
CLIP CLIP
COUPON FILET MIGNON COUPON 
&SAVE $3 
(REG. 8.95-WITH COUPON 5.95) &SAVE '3 OR 
STUFFED FILET MIGNON 
Each entree includes a bot­tomless tureen of soup, baked bread and your choice of baked potato, 
1 home fries or rice mason. 
OUR REGULAR MENU ISALSO AVAILABLE 
Limit 2 dinners per coupqn 
May not be used with Offer goodS p.m.-10:00 
other coupons OJ 

advertised specials. and -4 p.m.-10:00 p.m. Fri. thru Sun. OFFER EXPIRES MAY 17,1984 
p.m. Mon. thru Thurs. 
52885 U.S. 31 North, South Bend Ph. 272-5478 
L---------~------------------~ 


SENIORS 
Pick Up Your Tickets For COMMENCEMENT COCKTAIL FORMAL Buy Your CLASS OF 1984 SHIRTS 
only$10 
Tuesday, May 8 1-5p.m. in LaFortune byStudent Office 
Also, buy more tickets to tbe,'C~F if needed 
. ------------....-...----.-~
.. 

Bays was introduced to the tutorial chemistry method about ten years ago when he began ex­perimenting on the computer. He used the Intercolor Computer Sys­tem at Saint Mary's College to teach himself the BASIC language and become familiar with graphics and character manipulation. 
Bays used his command of the BASIC language, his ability to use graphics and his understanding ofin­structional needs to develop the program which illustrates the stereochemistry of Organic molecules. 
"I was learning new techniques as I was writing the program," Bays said. He experimented in his chemistry courses while he made revisions. "My students served as guinea pigs," he said. In two years he created this "thought provoking" tutorial. 
Bays had not planned on selling the program at first. The more he developed it, the more it seemed unlike any other instructional program, he said. 
He informed Compress Computer Company about his program. After making a few minor changes, he was able to market the program with Compress. The company sells it as a floppy diskette made only for the 48K Apple. It is sold in individual packages for $65 or with a back-up copy for $75.It is available in hard disk for network systems. 
While it is sold directly to institu­tions or through publishers which market it as a supplement to a textbook, students may purchase it for their own use. 
Although he was unaware of the demand or response of customers through Compress, Bays referred to the "optimistic" reaction from those who had used it before it was marketed. 

A refreshing break 
A Salvadoran guerrilla holds an American-made M-16 on his lap as be drinks a soft drink at a roadblock in La Palma, El Sal­vador. La Palma is near San Salvador where left-wing guerrillas burned ballot boxes and staged harassing raids yesterday in an attempt to disrupt voting. Runoffelections were held to determine the country's president. In very early returns, centrist Christian Democratjose Napoleon Duarte, a former president, led rightist Roberto D'Aubisson 54 percent to 46 percent. Significant returns are not expected to be in until later today. Elsewhere in El Sal­vador, shots were fired at two helicopters carrying Ambassador Thomas Pickering, two congressmen, and reporters. One aircraft was bit, but no one was reported injured in the incident. 
Spring Sale Mardi Gras T ·Shirts Student Gov't 
LaFortune Second 10 a.m.-4 p.m. floor 
Only $1 

Mteryour lastexam, whattoughquestions will you stillbe facing? 

W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
Contact: 
Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 

• 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 283-6385 

--....--..------. ------·-­
~----------------------------~~ 
Mondale beats Hart in Texas 
Associated Press 

AUSTIN, Tex. Walter F. Mondale got the support he wanted deep in the heart ofTexas and Gary Hart's state campaign manager sug­gested yesterday it might be time for the senator to consider ending his presidential quest. But Hart said he has no intention of dropping out of the race. 
"It will be difficult now for him, having lost Texas, to win the nomination," Rep. Martin Frost, D­Texas, told a news conference the morning after Mondale captured the major share of delegates elected ~n state precinct caucuses. 
Mondale and Hart were campaigning in Ohio yesterday and the Rev. Jesse Jackson, a surprise winner Saturday in the Louisiana primary, was in North Carolina. 
At a news conference in Washing­ton before flying to Cleveland, Hart said, "The issue is not who wins states, but who wins delegates." 
Hart also repeated his contention that with the exception of Missouri, Mondale has never topped 50 per­cent, therefore failing "to demonstrate that he represents the real majority ofthis party." 
The Colorado senator said he believes voter sentiment is shifting his way in Ohio and Indiana 
Frost said he would hold "some private discussions" with Hart later this week. When pressed on whether he would advise the can­didate to withdraw from the race for the Democratic presidential nomination, Frost just kept repeat­ing that he felt Hart needed to carry Texas. 
The Observer Monday, May 7, 1984 -page 8 

This year, don't leave for home without your phone. Buy it before sum­mer and save yourself some time and money. Buying your AT&T leased phone now means you'll have your phone with you the very first day back to class. 
To buy the phone you're leasing, just call AT&T Consumer Sales & Service's toll-free number. Or visit 
OFFER FOR OFF -CAMPUS 
any of our AT&T owned and operated 
Phone Centers. It's that easy. So call us before you say goodbye. Then unplug your phone and take it with you. And have a nice summer. 


1-800-555-8111 Call tlus toll-free number 24 hours a day.  AT&T © WR4, AT&T Information Systems  
Mishawaka 6502 North Grape  
STUDENTS ONLY  





Showcase 
Sir Obnoxious 
Mission accomplished 
by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 
O
bviously there is nothing more for Sir Obnoxious to do here. 
Ever since Sir Obnoxious came to Notre Dame late last year, 
obnoxiousness has begun to climb at a steady rate, and now it rears 
its ugly skull without any shame at all. As it should, ofcourse. 
But the point has been reached where Sir Obnoxious' presence is no longer necessary. When Sir Obnoxious first arrived there was a mission to fulflil -one, to preach the tenets ofboorishness, and two, to get rid ofMiss Manners. But the mission has been accomplished, and things seem to be running quite smoothly. 
Sir Obnoxious was pleased to see such events as Viking Night at South Dining Hall, where people heroically ate without bending their elbows. Such was indicative ofSir Obnoxious' own eating habits, and Sir Obnoxious even learned a few new tricks from the grubby infidels. 
But then Sir Obnoxious was mildly surprised -no, quite surprised -at what transpired next. Sir Obnoxious talked and talked about the wonders ofrudeness, and directed all ofthose harangues toward the masses. In Notre Dame's case, that was the stu­dents. But strangely enough, it was the administration that responded most enthusiastically to Sir Obnoxious' call. And it did it in the most obnoxious way possible -without any style at all. 
It nitpicked at the students, provoking anger with every jab. It at­tempted to irk students by taking over financial control ofthe stu­dent paper, but when that didn't work, it turned to down-and-dirty methods of being obnoxious. 
It invaded dorm food sales without any warning, poked around for something to criticize, and was obnoxious enough not to even pur­chase anything. 
It planted nice green grass on the quads, made it absolutely per­fect to play Frisbee, baseball and football on, and then told everyone to stay off. 
It came out with a wonderfully worded, immensely popular al­cohol policy with incredibly obnoxious restrictions including the number ofpeople in each room. 
The administration's timing was atrocious, and therefore it was good. 
But the students made Sir Obnoxious proud by responding with obnoxiousness oftheir own. The night the alcohol policy was an­nounced, almost 2,000 screaming, raving students stormed Alumni and Corby Halls, and they were very obnoxious indeed. 
The day after, several students admirably attempted to outdo the Viking Dinner by holding a drunken bash in the South Dining Hall. 
The point ofall this is, ofcourse, that Sir Obnoxious no longer needs to be here. It seems that obnoxiousness has fmally triumphed over the wimpyness ofpoliteness. And Sir Obnoxious' bitter rival, Miss Manners -she sent flowers last week just to make Sir Ob­noxious angry -has been run out of town. 
So Sir Obnoxious is prepared to depart from this place, proud ofall 
that has been accomplished. But ofcourse a few last pointers on the 
art ofobnoxiousness must be left behind. 
Remember to never open doors for anyone unless you enteror ex­
it first. 
Always strive to be creative at the breakfast, lunch and dinner tables. Invent new colors through mixing drinks such as grape juice and chocolate milk, or create new recipes to take home to mom by combining foods such as ravioli and Lucky Charms. 
See how far you can throw a biscuit, or ifyou can land a cookie in the bowl ofyogurt four tables down from you. Drive peoplecrazy by dropping a glass on the floor and catching it before that fatal second bounce. Or see how far you can roll an apple down the aisle before it hits someone's foot. 
As people are studying, ask them trivia questions which you know 
will stump them, but will intrigue them so much they won't be able 
to stop thinking about them. 
Go to movies that you've already seen, make sure you sit behind 
people who have never seen them, and tell them everything that's 
going to happen throughout the entire movie. An interesting twist is 
to do this and then change the ending. 
Sir Obnoxious would love to say goodbye, but since farewells al­ways seem to end up being extremely sappy and melodramatic, Sir Obnoxious hates them. So it appears a return to sunny Beverly Hills is next on the agenda. Or maybe Sir Obnoxious will attempt to teach obnoxiousness at Miami University. 
Well, maybe not. 

Dear Sir Obnoxious: 
Guess what/ did the other night? I thinkyou'lllike it. I went to see the 7:00 showing of"The Big Chill" at the Engineering Auditorium, and I got in free! I went early to get in line, and the auditorium was open, and there was no one around, so I went in and sat down. Pretty soon so did a whole bunch ofother people, and they never bothered to collect from us! And the movie was great, too! What do you think about that? 
Bill, the Free Loafer 

Disgusting Reader: 
First ofall, it is painfully obvious that you don't know the ftrst thing about obnoxiousness by your placing ofthe word "dear" before Sir Obnoxious' name. Second, Idon't like your name, and third, I don't likeyou. And I happen to know that you went to the 9:30 showingof ofa movie during)ames Bond week and you got overcharged by ftfty cents. So there. Get a clue. 

Monday,May7, 1984-page9 
K4~vin Williams 
jE~atures staff writer 
I
f the new alcohol policy made any provisions for burning books, The Complete Book ofBeer D1"inking Games would probably be the first on the pile. 
Simply put, this book is a collec­
tion ofimaginative ways to consume 
large quantities ofbeer. Fifty games 
-including such favoritt:s as Quar­
ters, Acey-Deucy, and Mexican ­
provide for hours ofenjoyment for 
everyone from the lighte:lt 
lightweight to the most hard-core 
partier. 

Beyond the game descriptions, the book contains essays. lists, and trivia in much the same style as any ofthe popular Official Whatever Handbooks. 
The games are organiz,~d into five 
sections corresponding to each 
games's rate ofalcohol consump­
tion, or "boot factor." Games with a 
boot factor ofone are designed, according to the book, "for the beginner who wishes to experience the excitement and cameraderie of beer-gaming." An example ofa boot factor one game is "Burn-out." 
In "Burn-out" a napkin is placed over the mouth ofa glass whose edge has been moistened slightly to hold the napkin. A dime is placed in the centerofthe napkin. Players take turns burningsmall holes in the nap­kin with a cigarette. The player who makes the dime drop into the glass is the loser and must drink a predetermined quantity ofbeer. 
Boot factor five games are played for the express purpose ofgetting drunk quickly. "Boot-a-Bout" is one such game. 
"Boot-a-Bout" is a method for determining who buys each pitcher. One player buys the ftrst pitcher and drinks as much of the beer as he desires. H~ then passes the pitcher 
to the next player who does the 
same. The person who drinks from 
the pitcher before the player who 
empties it buys the next one. 
One ofthe ftrst subjects the book addresses is beer-gaming etiquette. Ten different rules are suggested, including no pointing, no using the work "drink" in any ofits forms, and the discreet digit rule. When the dis­creet digit rule goes into effect, any player may -at any time -dis­creetly hang his foreftnger off the edge of the table. Each player who notices must do the same thing. The last person tp hang his digit drinks. 
In an attempt to include some so­dally redeeming quality, The Com­plete Book ofBeerDrinking Games 
dedicates an entire page to the evils ofdriving drunk. In a word-Don't. 
The Complete Book ofBeer Drinking Games is useful as a reference book, but it lacks quality entertainment. Inane jokes and an over-worked vomitting theme detract from the book, but one can fmd a few flashes ofinspired humor scattered throughout. 

Movies It l.1as all the ingredients, bu.t doesn't quite swing it 
by Cat Francis 
features copy editor 
" swingShift" is a nostalgic look 
at the World War II years and the women who went to work at the jobs vacated by men gone to war. It is also a curiously disappointing movie. 
I wasn't sure what to ~~xpect from "Swing Shift." And I don't think the makers ofthe movie were sure either. It seemed random, a collec­tion ofscenes and an occasional humorous line. 
The movie's plot is relatively simple. Goldie Hawn plays Kay Walsh, the devoted and conscien­tious wife ofJack (Ed Harris). Her abject devotion to her husband at the movie's beginning will set on edge the teeth ofevery feminist in the audience. Jack goes offto war and Kay decides to take a job at MacBride Aircraft Company. 
The movie focuses on the trans­formation ofKay, from demure and naive to self-assertive and willing to explore her own feelings. In this, she is aided by two friends: her next-

night). But then, inexplicably, it 
becomes lost somewhere among the 
tangled and confused emotions of 
the players. The ending is a let­
down, as well as being more than a 
little predictable. 
Russell pulls up some ofthe movie's quality, but only in a minor fashion. His performance as Lock­hardt, an aspiring jazz musician, is an interesting contrast to his work in "Silkwood." But since he is the most likable character in the entire movie, the audience is even more disappointed by the ending, in which he simply wanders away from the action ofthe plot. 
Hawn is adequate as Kay, and does 
a credible job ofportrayinga woman 
who begins to realize she can be 
somethingother than a complement 
to her husband. But she does not do 
enough. The only major change we 
see in the character bythe end ofthe 
ftlm is that she is no longer fetching 
her husband's beer. 
"Swing Shift" has a promising and 
amusing plot, nice camera work, and 
some top rate actors. But some­
where the mixture goes wrong, and 
the resultant mishmash is not worth ·the price ofadmission. 



~i~~~_()__i_J1___t__________________Mo_oo_~~,M-~-7~,1-98_4~p~~~e-IO 
One more Loret Ruppe controversy 
Congressman Henry Hyde, one of the disabled workers is a prima facie violation of should be an amendment outlawing it. But, I tion's original determination to drastically leading pro-life politicians in Washington, the Civil Rights Act. It seems the Peace Corps have yet to write a letter to the President, my reduce its budget and its importance in says Loret Ruppe is "following the law," and is has a policy of providing travel expenses for senator, or my representative supporting it. American foreign policy. "not out of step with the policy of this (the any volunteer requiring medical care. The Am I to ·be condemned for inaction? Is Loret By testifying before the Kissinger commis­Reagan) administration." James Bopp,Jr., the question being raised concerns the way in Ruppe to be condemned for not working to sion on Latin America and by gaining the sup­general counsel for the National Right-to-Life which an abortion is defined within the con· change it? Some people might say "yes," but I port of Secretary of State Schultz in a report 
Committee, rejects theJustice Department in-text of this law. am sure most people would be more lenient. which described the Peace Corps as a key to 
The Obseroer, last Friday, ran a statement by The abortion question is not the only con­U.S. foreign policy, Loret Ruppe has changed Ruppe outlining the action she took in trying troversey surrounding the Notre Dame com­the administration's opinion. to change the Peace Corps abortion policy. mencement speaker, though. Both The In a house editorial on April 13, 1984 The
David Grote 

What it amounts to is the Justice Department Observer and Father Hesburgh received Observer editorial board stated the opinion saying she could not deny paying transporta· anonymous packets of newspaper clippings that Loret Ruppe should not have been pickedSpeaking out of turn tion expenses to volunteers seeking abortions which painted an unflattering potrait of as the commencement speaker. As a member as long as she paid those expenses for other Ruppe. Rumors from Washington are that of that board, I still agree with that opinion. disabled (ill) volunteers. these are not the only instances ofanonymous Whether it is the whine of a spoiled child or 
terpretation of the Pregnancy Discrimination Ruppe is an employee of the U.S. govern­sent materials attacking Loret Ruppe. not, I feel that Notre Dame's commencement Act and says it "does not require the payment ment and is bound to obey the law. The It seems Ruppe has made some enemies in speaker should be someone more prestigious oftravel or per diem expenses to Peace Corps justice Department told her how to interpret her term as Peace Cbrps Director. The reason than Loret Ruppe. employees seeking abortions." the law. Even if Ruppe is diametrically is that she is a moderate women in a con­But in that same editorial Ruppe was 
Confused? If so, you are not alone. The con­opposed to the Justice Department's inter· servative administration. The facts are that un­described as a poor administrator and as troversy surrounding Ruppe and the Peace pretation, to disobey it is to forfeit her posi· der Ruppe's leadership, the Peace Corps has hypocritical in her handling of the abortion Corps abortion policy is complicated. The tion as Peace Corps director. seen its budget grow by 20 percent in the last policy. Further information, though, has Pregnancy Discrimination Act implies that Some people argue if Ruppe is truly against three years, that the number ofvolunteers has raised serious questions about the validity of any employment practice or policy treating abortion, she should be doing something to been increasing, and that this was ac­these statements. I feel this viewpoint may pregnant employees differently from other change it. I'm against abortion. I think there complished despite the Reagan administra-have been hasty and uninformed. 
The changed face of Gary Hart 
rapidly changing demographic and social stand or relate to. Hart was a man who offered Much has been made of how Hart hasFriday, Gary Hart delivered a "major policy nature ofour society. the bold dynamics of change tempered by recently attempted to capture the mystique ofspeech" here in South Bend, at least so say his 
campaign advertisements. Does anyone I was amazed at the breadth of his thought: hard reason. the Kennedy era. It has even been said that the Weeks before the Iowa caucuses vaulted way he wears his clothes, tilts his head and
remember Gary Hart's last visit to South Bend? not only did he consider the problems created 
It occured in February of last year when by the changes occurring in our society, he him to national prominence, Hart told a repor­jabs with his hand, is in direct immitation of 
ter, "I don't have to sell myself I have to sell Kennedy. I could ignore such accusations for group In the library auditorium. Hart was im· problems are interrelated. Policy designed to the need to change generations of leader­only so long. I now cringe each time Hart effect one would bring change to the others. ship . . . I constantly try to avoid what turns refers to Kennedy in a campaign speech. 
people off about politics -hypocrisy and What Gary Hart has failed to realize is that John Madigan To listen to Hart was to be in the presence shallow emotionalism. I am not an enter­he already was the conveyor ofa mystique, his ofa man, a thinker, philosophizing. Hart didn't tainer." own mystique. Instead of capitalizing on his Guest column stump for a docket of programs. Instead, he This is what appealed to me more than a . own strengths, he is looking to create an wondered aloud about solutions. Out of year ago. It's probably also what caused voters image he simply does not match. Instead of character for an ambitious politician, he ad· in Iowa and New Hampshire to turn from the giving substance to the "new ideas" he has 
pressive: he cataloged this nation's military, mitted without hesitation that he hadn't yet old-style, empty politicking of Walter been expounding, he has slipped into the economic anEI social problems, giving a figured how to attack the problems facing our Mondale. backbiting style ofcampaigning. detailed explanation of their causes and im· country. What, then, has happened to Gary Hart Which is the real Gary Hart -the troubled 
He impressed me as a thinker who might since his first stunning successes? Succumb­policymaker with an eye to the future of 1983, Senator Hart spoke to a small, if not attentive, more importantly recognized that these Jlew 
pllcations. He spoke with no reserve, without a someday provide the vision which this ing to the pressure ofrunning a modern media or the smooth, predictable politician of 1984? 
prepared text. Hart was thinking aloud, one country has so longed lacked. I was excited 
campaign, Hart became concerned with that Senator Hart has in turn impressed me, and moment pondering the need for a bold new when Hart came from nowhere to capture 15 very side of politics which he had claimed to disappointed me. I hope Gary Hart reappears course ofindustrial policy, only to immediate· percent of the vote and second place in the most abhor. on the national political scene in 1988 or ly follow this assertation with a critique ofthe Iowa caucuses last February. Soon he hired Patrick Caddell, the slickest 1992, more mature, more ready to realize the 
His popularity with the fickle New of the political image makers. Hoping to play potential he showed during his visit to Notre
theory of industrial policy as articulated by thinkers such as Robert Reich. Hampshire voters pleasantly surprised me, political hardball with the huge Mondale or­Dame last year. 
The overriding feeling which Hart left his too. Still, I thought I understood this ganization, Hart has put more faith in market­audience was that he had a firm grip on the popularity. Hart was a man who mesmerized ing techniques than he has in the simple, problems facing our country. He understood by the depth and sincerity of his thought and intense style by which he had spread his con­]obn Madigan is a senior in the College of 
well our altering industrial economy and the convictions. He was not a man easy to under-victions. Arts& Letters, majoring in economics. 
P.O. BoxQ 
force one of the most prominent theologians in the nation, such as Stanley Hauerwas, to
Knee-jerk Response 

move on to much greener pastures, simply be­cause he does not spout the Catholic party Dear Editor: line. 
Reading Bud MacFarlane's letter, "Rickert Thus, while I find MacFarlane's viewpoint was Wrong" on May 3, I was struck by the ap· both oppressive and noxious, it is unfor­parent lack ofunderstanding on the part ofthe tunately becoming clear that this knee-jerk writer, as he sought to chastise James Rickert reaction to things foreign is becoming the for finding fault with the theology depart­rule, rather than the exception, here at Notre ment's new requirements. Dame. 
MacFarlane argues that the department is Timothy Eigo correct in insisting on an additional course in Graduate Student Catholicism because, as he says, the Catholic Church "is the one, holy and apostolic guar­dian ofthe Truth that God has revealed." 
Illegitimate complaint 
In his own statements, the writer reveals that he has a basic misunderstanding of the Dear Editor: difference between religion and theology. If In the current raft of attacks on the admit· MacFarlane wants religion, let him go to a tedly ridiculous alcohol policy, there in one Bible study class, or let him be content with criticism that must be discarded. It has been Sunday sermons. stated repeatedly that the new rules will 
Theology, at respected institutions, is the promote off-campus drinking and drunk objective, professional, intellectual study of cjriving, and that any injuries stemming from the nature of God and religious truth; it is the such activity are the administration's respon­rational Inquiry into religious questions. One sibillty. concerned with theology does not attack a With so many legitimate complaints against writer because he does not share a common the University's coddling, why does this lame faith. One concerned with theology does not and petulant response persist? Any fool who examine tenets objectively after becoming feels compelled to drive drunk needs a nanny blinded by the brightness ofhis God. looking after him. We are above that, aren't 
A department concerned with theology we? does not institute such reactionary, narrow· Richard Pilger 
~4~ r~q!!lfc;~.cnts, .n~rAqc;s ~~ pr;u;:t_k;~y .....•.:.. ..._. ..:.::.;.,.. --. ---;-.;;;:.:.::--Fresbm'!'!­
•..
. . ....·"·•-· -~ ........ ·····.t:..:....~:..::.:..::.::.:.::.:.::.:..:..:..:.:..-..-:..-.................._ ..........._,......,,..,..,,_,..,.,_...,______..,.......,:,·,:,·..:.·..:.·..:.·.J. 
~--------------------------------------------------~~----------------------------~~ 
"ielYP-~O~i~n~t~------------------------------------------M_o_n_da~y~,M_a~y_7~,_19_8_4_-~p~ag~e--11 
Investigating one's employment opportunities 
In my more charitable moments, I have tended to believe that those individuals did not understand that their irresponsibility could adversely affect others. In light of the fact that many corporations are cutting back on the number ofcampuses they visit, we can ill afford to have people miss interviews for other than legitimate emergencies. We are in­stituting more stringent sanctions to prevent a repeat of this unfortunate occurrence next year. 
The young man I have just referred to is not exceptional when compared to many Notre Dame students. We have a tremendously talented group of men and women who are destined to be leaders in all areas ofendeavor. It is my job to help cultivate that enormous potential by providing as many avenues as possible to facilitate deliberate, systematic career exploration by our students. 
Since there is little in life which so strongly influences one's self-image and self-esteem as does one's vocation, I carmot stress enough the need to investigate and plan for entry into the world of work. It really can make a dif­ference in your life. 
Kitty Arnold is the Director ofCareer and Placement Services atNotre Dame. 
1980's 
never developed positive ways ofdealingwith even themselves? 
A modern student center might also make student functions more palatable to those nuns, brothers and priests who claim to be so concerned about student alcohol abuse, yet are rarely seen making contact.with students outside offormal situations. Maybe school of­ficials can bartend at student functions and make better judgments about which students have had enough to drink. 
The administration must get out ofthe habit of using rules to deal with student problems. Don't hand us ultimatums and walk away secure in the beliefthat you have done all you can. Better leadership, harder work and sen­sitivity on the part of both the administration and students will solve most ofour problems. 
We must change the attitude that getting drunk every weekend is okay before we can solve the alcohol problem. A rule banning al­cohol may be useful in keeping some students from succumbing to peer pressure to get drunk, for fear ofpunishment. But a change in attitudes, better leadership and a new student center are all better ways of dealing with al­cohol and meeting a genuine student need for an improved social atmosphere. 
Cyrus L. King is a senior in the College of Arts & Letters atNotre Dame. 
Correction 
On April 30 The Ob­server ran a letter to the editor titled "Alcohol at tailgaters," signed by Mic­hael Welch, NO class of 1983. Michael Welch was not the author ofthis letter, however. The Observer is sorry for any incon­venience this may have caused Welch. 

It is an unfortunate indication of our times that even at a prestigious institution like Notre Dame, many students worry a great deal ahout their employment prospects. While some of th~se fears arc exaggerated, the sad fact is that there are fewer jobs generally defined as ap­propriate for college graduates relative to the 
Kitty Arnold 
Guest column 

total number ofstudents completing degrees. It is little wonder than that students here and elsewhere arc apprehensive about their future. 
As placement director, I can attest to the difficulties some students face in entering a tight job market. Nonetheless, a diploma from Notre Dame is a respected commodity in the eyes ofemployers. 
I hear comments again and again about the fine academic reputation that our institution enjoys from organizations of all types. That reputation does not, however, guarantee each 
Not all seniors are uninterested in what 
goes on at Notre Dame after May 20. After 
living here for four years, I can list just as many 
reasons for disliking this place as for liking it. If I should shed a tear on graduation day, it is likely to be one ofjoy not sadness or nostalgia Yet, however faintly, I can still remember the sense of excitement and pride I had as a 
Cyrus L. King 
Guest column 

freshman. Just being associated with Notre Dame meant something special; something I could never quite grasp until I lost most of those feelings. 
In the days prior to my decision to attend Notre Dame, my vision of the Golden Dome was quite different from my present one. I thought the administrators of the nation's leading Catholic institution would be willing to work together with students to create an atmosphere ofmutual respect and admiration. Today I am not so sure. 
The new alcohol policy should not be too surprising to seniors, who have seen the party situation at Notre Dame go from bad to worse; from a restriction on section parties and kegs to an elimination of non-alcoholic get toget­hers. What has happened to the sense of cooperation and mutual respect between the Notre Dame administration, faculty and stu­dents. 
Contrary to what many believe, nothinghas happened -it neverexisted. At least students have a clear picture ofwhere they stand now, even if it is under the feet of the administra­tion. There has always been a parent-child relationship, and unless both students and faculty mem~rs step back and redefine their goals and determine positive methods to achieve them, that relationship will remain. 
The controversy over the alcohol policy is just another case in point which illustrates the strained relationship between students and administrators. The alcohol policy has brought more insanity to the Notre Dame campus than a U.S.C. pep rally. Why? 
Both the Notre Dame administration and its students arc guilty of throwing a religious in­stitution into the unbecoming thrill-seeking and every individual a good job upon gradua­tion. Even the many types of services offered by my office only go so far in assisting stu­dents. The effort and initiative of the in­dividual is the key element for success. · Employment success is a function of being alert to opportunities to learn about career options and the process ofgetting a job. I wish 
that I periodically had a captive audience of 
students so I could bring to their attention the 
various things they could do to fmd challeng­
ing, rewarding work. 
Instead, they must avail themselves to the services and activities. Sadly, there are many students who, for a variety ofreasons, do not plan in any systematic way and who needless­ly panick this time ofyear. 
It is gratifying to find the exceptional per­son who has been alert and whose planning has paid off. Several weeks ago I met a recent graduate of another major midwestern uni­versity who recounted the process he had followed in determining his career choice and in getting the highly responsible position he currently holds. 
I was very impressed with the conscious 

and deliberate research he had conducted to 
become more knowledgeable about his 
career. What was most impressive was that he 
The secular Notre Da:me of the 
secularworld ofthe 1980s. Life at Notre Dame is so boring that we are seeking to spice it up with a heated controversy that quite frankly, "doesn't amount to a hill ofbeans." 
Everyone wants to live a thrillng fun-filled life. The people ofthe 80s tend to believe that if life is not one continuous orgasmic ex­perience, it is somehow unfulfulling. We have all exaggerated the amount offun we had on spring breaks or how much more "fun" our home towns are than South Bend. But none of us have had as much fun as we have described Some ofus tell stories which makes it hard to believe we've slept since birth. 
We must realize that some less-than­exciting things are worthwhile (homework for example) and that some exciting things are not worthwhile (a rally supporting al­cohol for example). 
Men will never achieve peace because they don't want it. Saying,"we had a useful con­versation with the administration," is not as exciting as saying, "we stormed the ad­ministration building and shook it to its raf­ters." 
For the administration, saying "we finally took a tough stance against alcohol," makes them seem more important than saying, "we have worked harder with students to find al­ternatives to alcohol." In a religious atmos­phere, cooperation should always be a wonderfully thrilling sign that maybe some­day all men can come together for a long boring handskake. 
We have already embarassed ourselves on national television and degraded our campus with ridiculous barmers. Notre Dame must put an end to this thrill-seeking adventure and analyze what has transpired. 
The administration has shown poor leader­ship by being unsympathetic and nearsighted. By attaching too much importance to its job, the administration could be guilty of thrill­seeking. They have changed from a covert to an overt parenting role with words like "expulsion" and "non-negotiable." The ad­ministration has overestimated the alcohol problem and taken on an almost crusade-like stance against drunkenness. 
In the future, university officials should never discount the possibility that students are capable ofproviding useful input into Uni­versity policies which affect them. 
There are those students who would be un­had begun his investigations in his freshman · year, ancl had continued to gather information throughout his entire college career. 

He had attended various career-related meetings, read pertinent books and periodi­cals, talked to faculty, used his school's career and placement resources, sought advice from alumni, spoken to upperclassmen in his field, and actively participated in the professional association related to his discipline. Armed with so much practical knowledge, he knew that he would be a much more proficient in­terviewee. Based on his current position, he was obviously right. 
Another topic we discussed was corporate college recruiting in general. This young man was somewhat critical of a few of his fellow students for being poorly prepared for their intervic:ws because he perceived, quite cor­rectly, that employers formed opinions ofthe school based on their interactions with a small number ofindividual students. 
He observed that students often do not 
realize that their actions have ramifications 
beyond their own employment. I have seen 
evidence ofthat this year, not so much in lack 
of preparation for interviews, but in the 
aston~.hingly large number of students who 
did not show up for their job interviews. 
reasonable regardless of the level of sensitivity and insight shown by the ad­ministration. However, the alcohol policy has shock<~d and disheartened even the most sensitive students. 
Some consider alcohol the sole issue, and will be lamenting the university's decision un­til they receive their diplomas. These students arc University puppets. The administration has used their seeming dependence on al­cohol for thrill and excitement to point out why their policy is so urgent. 
Drinking beer should not have as much in­flueno:e on student socializing as some stu­dents would lead us to believe. These students have lied to themselves by exaggerating the amount of fun they have had on their al­coholie trips. If our socializing depends so much on alcohol, then changes are needed. 
Another group of students has a more legitimate gripe. These students arc not total­ly su1prised by the new policyand would have taken the more sensible parts ofthe directive in stride were it not for the administration's total disregard for student input. These stu­dent:> are more concerned with the student­administration relationship, and realize that social life, not alcohol, is the major issue. 
It is not surprising that a Catholic institu­tion would somehow modify its alcohol policy. Limiting the students' capacity to throw non-alcoholic parties, however, is a bit extreme. 
Thte most disappointing part of the ad­ministration's proposal is the failure to provide meaningful direction for student so­cial life. Ifthe administration had cared to lis­ten, Notre Dame's students could have provided some meaningful suggestions. 
TI1e most obvious suggestion would be for the University to build a new student center. Maybe a bowling alley, pool tables, video games, a place to eat, a dance floor larger than Senior Bar's 4 x 4 foot square, and music videos. Classwork and schoolwork are impor­tant parts of college life, but learning how to relate to people in different settings is just as important. 
Notre Dame should be a place for today's leaders and a breeding ground for future leaders. But the people here are so homogeneous that they may fmd it difficult to rela:re to people outside this closed setting. What would happen ifNotre Dame's students 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Edilor-in-Chief .......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller ................ Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor. ....... Margaret. Fosmoe Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned ~.i.l.QU~l> represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries/~d the Inside Column Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Vie Npoint Editor ............. Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966

community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor .............. Mary Healy is encouraged. Photo Editor . ............... P~te Laches 
The Observer Monday, May 7, 1984 -page 12 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary'• office. locat<·d on the third floor of llaggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until :\p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline fi>r nnt-day classifi<·ds is -~ p.m. All cla~sifkds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per live chara<·­
Classifieds 
ters r da 

ROOMMATE(S) NEEDED FOR SUM­$$NEED 4 GRAD TIX $$LARRY 1638 SEXI SEX! SEX! NOW THAT I HAVE MARIPATRICIAI MARIPATRICIAI KERRY, JACKIE, DIANA: Didn't we have MER. 4 bdrm hse, ut1hties & phone incl. OR 1601 YOUR ATTENTION, PLEASE HELP ME. MARIPATRICIAI a great year? Who cares 1f our GPAsNOTICES Nice yard, garage 288-8461/284-5128 I NEED AT LEAST ONE GRADUATION YES, WE HAVE HAD A GREAT TIME plummeted? Thanks for hstemng-you for info: approx S125/mo. GOTTA HAVE GRAD. TIX. Need not be TICKET. PLEASE CALL ME IF YOU CAN THESE PAST FEW MONTHS AND always doll 
together Call Tom/John 6146 or 1761. HELP. JACK 7982 AFTER 10PM MORE FUN COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE • 
TO COME NEXT SPRINGIII IT'S BEEN Carol 277-f046. Wplck up & de--NEED ONLY 1 GRADUATION TICKET! Applications lor 11116 AnToml Chelr­GREAT TO BE BACK AND 'PLAY' THIS 
WILL PAY S$$... 4305 man are now available at the Student SEMESTER.•.! AM REALLY GOING TO TO ALL THE GIRLS AT SMC WHO I WE HAVE THE LOWEST AIRFARES TO Government offices in LaFortune. MISS YOU NEXT FALL, KIDOO HAVE GROWN TO KNOW AND LOVE, EUROPE! FOR FREE COLOR IN SEARCH OF: Graduation tickets -­I'LL BE BACK FOR A TAILGATER OR THANKSTHOM BFIOCHURE, WRITE TO: CAMPUS PHOENIX BOUND. BUT I NEED A Mark8693 NEED A PLACE TO STAY THIS SUM­TWO OR THREE OR FOUR•.• HERE'S TRAVEL, IIOX 11317, ST. LOUIS, MO PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL MER? Need to sublet a two-bedroom TOO A BOTTLE OF ROSE'-GALLO 83105. AUGUST 11. ANY SUGGESTIONS OR Willing to pay$$$ for Graduation tlx. Call townhouse apartment within walking dis­THE BIG ONEI AND OF COURSE ONE VIV and KATHLEEN: You are two cool 
OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239-Dave at 8167 or leave message with tance of campus. Price is $250/month OF 'LARRY THE LOBSTER'S SMC chicsl Poland and Ireland have no WORDPROCESSI'IG AHD TYPING. 5313 OR 277-4851 return phone number at 239· 7757. wrthout utilities (very negotiable). IN­CIGARETTES AND THE BIG CHILL finer daughters II RESUMES. zn..:v. TERESTED? Please call283-1479 if at all CIAO, BELLA-I'M REALLY GONNA" 
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED Josie needs graduat101'1 tickets! Will pay rnterested. MISS YA'••••• LOVE, LISA Carol EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 $$$call7819or7813. 
WANTED 
CALL PAUL AT 239-5313or277-4851. DAVIDI need a ride to Om•he!! I will be ready to NANCY, M.A.. M.A.. ROSA: You Pop­
Congratulations on getting an interview
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. 0 R1de Wanted to WESTCHESTER CO., HELP! DESPERATELY NEED leave at noon on Saturday, May 12.11 you Farleyites have been wild women this 
wrth the commissioner's officell Good
THESES. TERM PAPERS, ETC. CALL NY leave Friday afternoon May 11. Call GRADUATION TICKETS I call Heather at can help, please call John at 8208. year. Have a wonderful summer! 
luck -I know they'll JUSt love you I 
RAY1101 Love,MRS COKER. 233-7009 288-3511 
Carol GET TOPS$$ FOR YOUR TEXTS !II NEED RIDE to NJ after 5112. Liz 1267 Want to live O.C. next ye.-? Need 1 
Me 

.~REE MOLSON GOLD or cash for grad Buy Beck Papert>acks: Monarch and Cliff male roommate lor Campus View. Call ENVIRONMENTAL CANVASSERS
tix and/or hotel resv. call Louis 3136 Notes -a ride to Boston •tter Flnalll. Call Bob t 489 or Joe 1553. NEED RIDE FOR TWO TO LOS AN­FIGHT HAZARDOUS WASTES AND 
Mon thru Fri. 1--4 p.m. NEED GRADUATION TIX DESPERATE­CALIFORNIA WITH THE MIDWEST'SStan at 1401 GELESSOUTHERN POLLUTION 
AREA. WILL SHARE ALL. CALL MIKE LARGEST ENVIRONMENTAL WAT­SUMMER POLITICAL WORK SENIORS I SENIORS! SENIORS I ATx6770. TCHDOG GROUP. GOOOD OPPOR­PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 S BEND AVE. LY! Relatives corning! WILL PAY $$$ 
Call Greg (283-) 3317. ..................

PIZZA I 30 m1mJtes or !reel Special hours CITIZENS ACTION COALITION IS NOW Ex(lfess your final thoughts wrth an Ob­TUNITY TO LEARN ABOUT tor FINALS 11am to 3am. CALL 277-HIRING THOSE INTERESTED IN NEED GRAD TICKETS ,BOB 8658 server personal. We will publish one final NOVENA TO ST. JUDE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND 2151 to order DOMINO'S PIZZA GRASSROOTS EFFORTS FOR Commencement issue on Friday, May Oh Holy St. Jude, Apoatle & M8rtyr, TO DISCUSS POLLUTION PROBLEMS DELIVERS I ECONOMIC JUSTICE AND ENVIRON­18. Come up to the office and tell the world great In virtue end rich In mlteclea, WITH HOMEOWNERS EARN $600& 
MENTAL REFORM. CALL 232-7918 how you feel about ND, SMC, friends, nur klnem•n of Je•u• Chrl81, lellhlul MO. CALL CBE 874-5500 SENIORS! FOR INTERVIEW. $180 & UP/WK. PERSONALS rules. good times and bad. and all of the end lnterceuor ot.rl who Invoke your 
things that have made your four years apecllll patron~~g~~ In time of Med, to Hiiil! Remember One Paddle, Two h's last testament t1me. Take out an Ob­I NEED RIDE TO BOSTON. CAN LEAVE here special. Office hours: Weekdays you I hllve recourNirom lhe deplha ol Paddle, All That Stuff And Gee And Oh -personal '" the Commencement 5/12at 10PM. CALL BOB 1580 Ma~, Deve, Bob, Tom, Troy, from 10 to 4 p.m. Charge is only 10 cents my heart•nd humbly begto whom God Phooey And Foooo. Yuk! Yuk! Yuki ISSue (Friday May 18) and let ·em have rtl Suun, Guillermo, Chrfa, SuZIInne, for every 5 characters. This is your last hlle given such great po-rto come to Corne up to the office. 3rd floo< Ride offered to Mass. on May 13. Call Lev, Meureen, P•ul, Llu, Carol, John, shotI my •ulatance. Help me In my pre•nt the MAD CLERIC is here LaFortune. and get yours today II Charles at 8094 Ed, Jell, Mark, S..ll, Mary, Tom, Teu, •nd urgent petition, In return I proml• 
Kevin, Keith, •II the typnettere & the to m•ke your name known & -you Mad Clerics marry mad men to mad I need a ride home to Utica or Syracuse re81 olthe midnight m•nlllce: To the kindly person(s) sending me roses to be Invoked. St. Jude, prey lor us •II women who in turn have wotf-man ST. LOUIS CLUB for summer. I can ieave as earty as Satur· check the beg BEFORE you IMd the wrth cryptic messages: PLEASE IDEN­who Invoke your •kl-Amen. S.y 3 Our children. BAGGAGE TRUCK day but would (lfefer to leave Monday, dog TIFY YOURSELF. I am flustered (and F•hera, 3 Hllll MIU')''L 3 Glorla'L Sey Will piCk-upon SATURDAY. MAY 12 May 14. Please call Brian 1165. S.F. very flaHered) ... lor 9 coneecutlve deya. Publication SMALL SOW 
TIMES: IIIU8I be promlaad. This novena hee S.P.O.S. 11:30-12:30 at ND Bool<store Need a ride to Roch.lupstate NY. Can ................................................................ To the members of the Holy Cross Com­never been known to tall. Thllnk you FATTY 12:45-1 :-45 at Stepan Center leave Fri. 5/11 P.M. or anytime after. Ter­All Applied Data Analysis students don't munrty: Flash. Bro. Paul, Claude. lor •ne~ng my prayers. LA.R. HOOStER 
2:00-3:00 at LeMans parking lot ry 8725/8762. forget the meeting at 6:00 prn at the Schneibs and everyone else. Thanks tor THANKS FOR ALL THE GOOD TIMES Please have all of your belongmgs clearly Library Circle on Thursday. everything you helped me see in two MY DEAREST PA, THANKS FOR A OVER THE PAST YEAR. m&il<ed WANTED: 1 RIDER TO PHILAISOUTH years wrth the community. PHENOMENAL YEARI YOU MAKE ME 
JERSEY ON 5/12. CALL JEFF 8854. Save Harold T. SO VERY HAPPYIII I LOVE YOU AL­To the Thursday night Observer crew­BUFFALO CLUB BUFFALO CLUB Save Harold T. WAYS,CA JeH. Tess. Ed. Lisa. Dorothy, Steve. Vic. Baggage truck Tues.MAY 8, Wed.May Need a ride to MD/DC on 5/13 or later. Save Harold T. Medman, Kevin, Dave. Paul C.-Thenx for 9,Sun May 13 Posters and details all over Will only have 1 surtcase. call Megan 284-Save Harold T. ATTENTION "LAST CLASS DAY" PAR· Upon seeing the UMOC voting results, a great 2nd semester. You're the best in campus. Any Questions call Nlct< 8207 4238 Sew Hllrokl T. TIERS I we ere greatly dlstresssed thai BOB the business. Have a great summer! See BUFFALO CLUII!UFFALO CLUB We'll miss you -the Clvlls wear your old shoes to the bars ... the in­LUCIAN did not win. We felt that we did you in the !all. Mad Cleric (a.k.a Small) 
NYCrrY RIDE NEEDED! CITY GIRL credible Berflng Machine will be cruising not have to campa;gn for BOB Afler all, ALASKA SUMMER JOBS -Good NEEDS TO GET TO HER HOME Looking for any ND females that will be through Corby's, Bridget's and Nlct<ies for we felt that It was common sense to vote moneyS$. Pw1<a, l'leheriM,­TURF. PLEASE HELP!WILL SHARE EX· working in the Denver area next yearand her 1st time so be on your toesl Happy for BOB, the "Ball Boy."It's too badthat Kathleen Doyle usad to be an Assistant -., logging lind much PENSES.LEAVING MON. may need a roommatlll. Call Michelle at 21st Marybeth (Bruton). Love, Evie & he won't be around next year. But, next News Editor. I'll bet you didn't know that. more ... !k.mmer Employment Guide. AFT.PAULA283-8115 7187. Cath year, ther& will be a campaign for BOB in 11114 HeiJnlle. $4.1111. ~300 abstentia. Have no fear, BOB will (lfevail. Julie F•rabaugh Union Aw., Bldg. 12, c.mpbell, CA Ride needed to D.C. leaving after 10 A.M. SUMMER Is almost here and soon you TO GREG, THE FOURTH FLOOR OF Here's to the rekindling of a good llliOOI. 5/14. Call Brian x6741. will be going home. Some of us are not so ST. ED'S AND ALL MY OTHER TOM: CONGRATULATIONS ON A friendship-hoping for a better onel See 
fortunate. Some of us will be spending our FRIENDS WHO WON'T BE HERE FOR SUPER YEAR. WE HAllE lii..O'!Hl you this summer (lots I hope). Good luck Need nde to Jacksonville, FLORIDA on summer in sunny South Bend. And as if GRADUATION. THANKS FOR YOUR l:EE IIIG 'IOU G'ON M:l MATt.R: AT on finals. If you want to know who sent the 15th. Will RENT car ~ necessary. that weren't reason enough to take pity on PATIENCE AND FRIENDSHIP. KEITH CIR:: OM.£ . WE A P R.Alll 'IOLR this. see above ad I Davld3127 me. I don't have a car with which to IIR:RTS M:l THAll< OCO ElotRY
LOST/FOUND I ..................................... 
escape the confines of this fair city, to take D.C./MD. BAGGAGE TRUCK DAY THAT 'IOU liFE OLR 8()1 . DAD NEED RIDE FOR TWO TO PHOENIX me to wort<, or even to go to the grocery M:lK:MAD. Kathleen Doyle-You goddess you. 
AREA. WILL SHARE ALL CALL MIKE 
store. Perhaps you have a car that you do D.C./MD. BAGGAGE TRUCK Why,lf It weren't for you, well. ATJdl770.
LOST-GREEN USMC/ARMY FIELD ncrt want to bring home because nis too KEVIN, LISA, MELINDA, MARIPAT. well, I just don't know. JACKET -Dad has threatened my exist­far, too much trouble, etc. Or perhaps you PRICES BASED ON $5/N.D. BOX LOU, I HAVE HAD A GREAT TIME MY But you're great. 
NEED RIDE FOR TWO TO LOS AN­
ence nI can't find h.H lound-PETE 3185. would like to leave your car here because (81KESS15) SENIOR YEAR WITH YOU, WHO 
GELES/SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA this sad tale has moved you to tears. H WOULD HAVE THOUGHT IT WOULD AREA. WILL SHARE ALL. CALL MIKE
LOST: Ladles Gold Timex Quartz watch you do have a car that you want taken LOAD UP: TAKE JUNIORS TO MAKE MY SENIOR 
ATx6770.

whh brown band M An Tostal mudpils on care of for the summer by a very reliable MAY 12 at BOOKSTORE 2-4 PM YEAR TERRIFIC! PLEASE VISIT NEXT BETH BETH BETH BETH BETH BETH Sat, A(lfi128. Please call Kathy at 8663. person, call Sarah at 1311. Please. at SMC (LEMANS) 4:30-6:30 PNI YEAR II THANK YOU ALL LOVE MO BETH BETH BETH BETH BETH BETH 
NEEDED: REFRIGERATOR CALL 
_ ....J_....... ............................. MAY 13 at BOOKSTORE 11-3 PM BETH BETH BETH BETH BETH BETH 
LAURA8034
FOUND: A BLUE AND GOLD NOTRE Feeling bored in your alternoons? Never at SMC (LEMANS) 3:30-6:00 PM GERI FITZGERALD BETH BETH DAME BASEBALL CAP IN HAYS HEA­get a chance to talk to people? Congratulations on your engagement! Now that I have your aHention. I want you
Ride needed to BOSTON. Can leave
LY. CALL MARK AT 1987. Well, The Obsetwr might be just what Happy Mul"I We all love you and John. to know that I never want you to tell me to 
Friday 5/11. Will shere usual. Call John at you need. Earn some money and meet BUFFALO CLUB SEE AD UNDER Love, take a barn again. That was pathetic.
1802.

CHAIN AND INTRAMURAL MEDAL some strange and interesting people by NOTICE SECTION BUFFALO CLUB Yogi, Boo Boo, and friends Worthy of slime. But that's okay. LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL becoming a Day Editor. If you're in­
CAMP STAFF: Certified WATER SAF­
COURTS. WILL THE PERSON WHO terested, call Tom Mowle at 239-5303 in HEY! need one ride to DC area. can leave 
TEY INSTRUCTOR. ASST. COOK, and
CALLED BEFORE EASTER BREAK the afternoon. sunday am. call SCOTT 8209. One last personal to harass Becky Two MARGIE & PAUL, da to lovebirds. 
ASST. CARETAKER, In charge of Pool
(DAN ?) PLEASE CALL AGAINI ANN Bringman ... Now thatthe class is over. can Hiiilll Do you really read the Personals? H 
and Grounds for Presbyterian Summer
MARIE 2845087 OR PAUL 27207-46. :Local software development company we tell??? (Don't Stand So Close To Me) so. all I want four graduantin is a gheno 
camp near Buchanan. MI. Call 234-4159 Bruce Sprlna-n will not be at com­offers full-time summer position to student blaster, a bike that works, a horse an Iron 
for application form.
FOUND: burgundy umbrella. the collap­mencement. but I need more tickets experienced In Assembly language THANK YOU KEVIN O'SHEA -SMC'S cub. I am willing to bargain and negotiate Sible k1nd. before Easter. To cla1m call anyway. Call Dave Dziedzic at 283-3671 programming for the IBM Personal Com· FAVORITE DOMER AND CHAMPION these ishews. YIYIYIYEE 2914. or 239-5303 if you want $$$ for your tick­puler. Call Wilmes Systems at 234-7688 OF RIGHTS 
ets. during business hours. or call Jim Wilmes LOST DURING HOLY WEEK A SMALL FOR SALE at 289-3896 evenings or weekends. THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR PRAYERS PHOENIX, ARIZONA LIGHT BROWN WALLET. CALL 25-
SANDWICHES DELIVERED FASTI ANSWERED AMEN II ARE YOU GOING THERE? DO YOU 8010. CALL THE YELLOW SUB AT 272·4453 M2, Eli. Danny Domer, McKevin, Amy, NEED A RIDE? HUH? DO VA, HUH? 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR BETWEEN 8& 11 prn MON-THUR 8&1prn Carol. Tom. Kathleen and especially Becks. Well, call Judy at 288-0280 for details and THE GOVERN­
LOST: SET OF KEYS ON KEY RING-$44 THROUGH U.S. FRI-SATI Janice. Thanks for a fun and wonderful Even though we make fun ol Jungle U .. I call her soon. Go on, make her day. 
MENT? GET THE FACTS TODAYI
PROBABLY LOST DURING year. Good Luck on finals and have fun am really proud of your acceptance and 
CALL(312) 742-1142, EXT. 73111.
THIJRSDAY PICNIC AT SAINT Need a great team. club, organization, this summer. Love, Mary. fellowship. Thanks for all the good times MARY'S. TWO OF THE KEYS ARE etc. unifier? I Your slogan, or name. moHo here and abroad. I'm going to miss you
BARGAIN: ENGAGEMENT AND WED­
MARKED 1124. PLEASE CALL JEFF or whatever you want can be impressed Knucklehead. I love you and I'll miss you. Jots! Ti amo mia arnica preferita! Rosie M•u-n •.• why the heck do you hllve 
DING RING FOR SALE Contact Garry
AT 7120 SOON. forever on key chains, medallions buUons Deb to go end greduate on me ... II'a been 
Rush. 239-7735 
etc.l Ordar today or write for more info: so much tun thle Nrne81er..tuea. niles LOST: Wallet w1th all of my identification. Konrady Graphics Ltd. Dear Dave, Suzanne, Gus, Pete, Cathy, Jean Jean the Camping Macchina!l at 25 cent beera, n•ncy'a, Julio'a •nd 
FOR SALE: 2 COUCHES, BAR STOOL, 
nfound please call Eileen at 277-1325. P.O. Box 174 and Marc: Thanks for all of your help over •ny other pizza piece that will lake 
RUG. BAR(REAL CHEAP!) EVERY­Crown Pomt. ln. 46307 the last couple weeks. At one time, the Dear Diane Elizabeth. I will love you al­checkelllthllnka lor being such • THING MUST GO! SOLD TO THE HIG­
REWARD OFFERED! FOR RETURN OF end seemed so far away. Now that rt's ways, Bo. super lrlend •nd perty compenlon ... It 
HEST BIDDER. OR FIRST COME FIRST 
POCKET CAMERA IN ROYAL BLUE come and gone. we can take pride in the just won't be the urne next YMI' then 
SERVED! CALL JEFF AT 8854 NOW I 
CASE. THE FILM INSIDE IS WHAT I HELP ME HELP ME HELP ME I'M way everything worked out. The best that ARE YOU STRONG? DO YOU LIKE TO egaln there'• •II thoN potentlel REALLY WANT, IF YOU REALLY NEED DROWNING I'M DROWNING I'M can be hoped for is that everything goes MEET NEW PEOPLE? Saint Mary's roadlrlpe to chlc•go-how hllrd can 181 
1977 Fiat Spyder conv. Must sell. Call
THE CAMERA PLEASE. DROP IT OFF DROWNING I'M CRAZY I'M NUTS I'M as well next year. Orientation is looking for you I We need 40 yr. lllw school be •nyw•ya???lel'a ­
287-7762 after 3.
EITHER AT LOST AND FOUND IN THE CONFUSED I'M LDNELY rM IN LOVE Jeff men to help move in the 500 incoming just how much more tun -c•n AD BUILDING OR WITH THE RECTOR SMC freshman nex1 August. Benefits are heveltlbeat ot luck, kkldo In ALL youFOR SALE-2 COUCHES, 1 BAR
OF WALSH HALL. OR CALL 8050. Before I leave for the summer. I would like many, including free meals at SMC. It in­EXPLOITS ..• lotu' luv, LISA 
STOOL, RUG, BAR (REAL CHEAP!). 
to thank the people who made my first MEUNDA MOORE terested please CALL CAROL AT 284­FIRST COME FIRST SERVED FOR THE
LOST: Blue ND S.nd Jeckel 1n F line at year here worthwhile. WHAT CAN I SAY? LIFE HAS JUST 5095TODAYI
RIGHT PRICE. CALL JEFF AT 111164 OR
North Din1ng Hall. n taken. please call To How•rd 4-North. especially John, BECOME WAY WAY TOO MUCH FUN LISA IS A FANTASTIC WENCH but 
STOP BY 321 ST. ED'S. HURRY NOW
Mike at 1475 Carl, Gerry, Andy, and Hany (Dad): OF LATE .... I DON'T KNOW HOW NEXT ARTIST, YOU STILL OWE ME A SONG nobody believes me. 
FOR THE BEST BUYS! 
thanks for Tha Experience. SEMESTER WILL BE WITHOUT SO WHY DON'T WE TRY ANOTHER LOST(STOLEN) PUCH TEN SPEED. To The Ob•rver staff. especially Mike. YOU, M.P, AND MAUREEN--BOTILE OF WINE I LOVE, WIILLLBUR MARIBETH (OR SOMETHING LIKE 
ATTN GRADS 1984 ND MEN'S CLASS 
RED.METEORLUXE. WITH ALL THE Jeff, Dave. Sarah, Marc. and Mary: BUT, HEY ... COME NEXT JANUARY-­THAT): 
RING FOR SALE, 277-6999 
EXTRAS. TAKEN FROM SIDE OF THE thanks for the opportunrtles and all your LOOKOUT I'LL BE BACK READY TO 3N REGINA clowns,laundry room crazy Guess who's rooting (or routing, or MATH BUILDING ON LAST THURSDAY help. MAKE UP FOR All THOSSE LOST picture clubhouse. yellow van, pig pie whatever) for you? Anyone for a back· 
FOR SALE: 74 MERCURY COUGAR
BETWEEN 1 :30 & 2:30 prn. ANY CLUES To those chouette girls in W•leh. Susie. WEEKDAY AS WELL AS WEEKEND quiet hours? thanks for a great year good rub? I'm glad you'll be around nex1 week. 
$475. PURRS LIKE A KITTEN AND YOU 
REPORT TO MEAKS 277-3306 M.E.. Sue: thanks for the abuse. Je W>us NITES luck love mom/katie
CAN DRINK IN IT. CALL BILL 288-0137. 
alme. HERE'S TO FOOTBALL WEEKENDS Oh yeah, J.P. MeG: get ready to Dew IIIII AND OTHER MISCELLANEOUS SHIRLEY. WHAT CAN I SAY? I WILL That's all very touching, but can you -Phil ROADTRIPS MISS YOU MUCH, AND OUR GOSSIP make her feet sweat . THANKS MEL---I CAN'T WAIT Tl COME EVEN MOREl LOVE MAUREEN 
BACK AND PLA VIII NO,ITS NOT AGAINST UNIVERSITY TOM, YOU ARE SPECIAL THANK YOU Excuse me, Dan, could you tell me how to POLICY TO HAVE ONE ... so why not buy FOR THIS YEAR I WILL MISS YOU get to the law library???? 
TWO BEDROOM TOWNHOUSE HELPII NEED GRADUATION TICKETS my loft? I goua sell it cuz nwon't fit in my MUCH LOVE, THE ONE WHO WILL APARTMENT FOR RENT OVER THE SO BROTHER&2 SISTERS CAN COME parents' Vollcswagen. Call Terese x4404 BFt:aSWD ENVY PUDGE VERY MUCH THIS SUM­Margaret. just to let you know that ns SUMMER. Whhln walking distance of BEFORE GOING TO PRISON. CALL MEAl 151 Dillon and not 140 Dillon. You're campus, price Ia 250/month w/o utllrtles 283-1204 MIKE. WILL PAY. MONEY IS FOR SALE -76 Ford Monarch Loves llarlpet, LIGHT OF MY LIFE-I'll going to enjoy being a Dlllonrte just as but Ia NEGOTIABLE. " AT ALL interested CLEAN. BEER 234-8248 neveriMveyou PETE, CIF, THOM. SCOTT: Hurray for soon as you learn the words to the fight please call283-1479. Love, ME-E-E Observer photographers who wort< like song. 
...................... . . IInce Sprln...... will not be at corn-NEED A STUDY BREAK? DOMINO'S slaves to keep this rag looking great! Scott TWO HOMES AVAJLA8LE FOR NEXT rnencernent, but I still need tickets. PIZZA will be open at 11 am to 3am Mon-............................................................... . and Paul: Good luck down the hall. Pete 

SCHOOL YEAR. WILL ACCOM-anyway. Call Dave Dziedzic at 283-3671 day, May, 7 to Tuesday. May. 15. 30 NE£D RIDE FOR TWO TO PHOENIX and Thom: See ya nex1 year I MODATE FOUR AND SIX STUDENTS. 0< 239-5303 ~you want$$$ for your tick-minute service guaranteed CALL 2n-VICINITY. CALL MIKE AT Jdl770. WILL 
see CLASSIFIEDS, page 13 
111 •

•._•._~~~~~.~ ~~,,:.,.~:'.:f'~.t~. ~ .~~~'! .. t ..!',..t•• !'~~-~....\;.~.\.,.'.,~•.,)1,,:~ .."!...\...:•.,:....:!>, \ ...._,.{'::~:~~~~..~~.:i.:..t.:A.~:t..:..-\:.\~!\:~~.~:~:~f.l.:..:• :·~·~~.~~~.:_t.~~..,.'~'•••••••••<r•••••·--tl 'I ~::'V'V'V''If'lt''o:'V''I.,C'"•""i''l':t•:l,l:_l)t''•'''''' ... ~ ..........' .... . 
. ... _______ .,. ................... .

. • ..·.~ ·.-.·. ·,•...,·,..,."'.,....•..•.-.•..•. ·····~~·.-, ....·..,...... ,-.·.~·~-·•.~._-.:,:<\:-··"" .._, \..'\ \.',\.,....:~·.t~' (··~(~""~4"'~~·~..,._.. :-:x~ .<•.... ,:,•. •&•...•.. ·.•..•..•.•..•..•..~~~-.-·,· -. -......... ~ ......... . 
The Observer Monday, May 7, 1984 -page 13 


Lacrosse 
continuedfrom page 16 
in control, but Berman again brought MSU closer by scoring at the end ofthe half. 
The Spartans continued to roll in the second half. Bermalil trimmed the lead to 6-5 in the opening seconds of the half, and, almost ten minutes later, the score had not changed. However, Dan Christ tied the score at six with 5:02 left in the quarter. Seven seconds later, Christ fed Pat Cherry on a fastbreak to put MSU in front for the first and last time, 7-6. 
MSU continued to dominate play until the final minute of the quarter when Trocchi took a pass from Grote to tie the score. The goal seemed to spur the Irish as they quickly jumped out into the lead on a goal by John Wilson. Pearsall then scored 20 seconds into the fourth quarter to increase the lead to 1 0-8. 
Once again, though, MSU fought back. The teams traded goals, but with less than three minutes remain­ing, Irish goalie Rob Simpson, who would stop 21 MSU shots in the game, dropped the ball while trying to clear it. Wilke picked up the loose 
ball and scored easily to cut the lead to 10-9. 
The goal seemed to stun the Irish and the Spartans capitalized by scoring 23 seconds later to tie the game. MSU then controlled the en· suing face-offand Notre Dame hopes did not look good. 
However, MSU threw the ball away, setting the stage for Trocchi's big goal. 
Despite the MLA title, however, Notre Dame's season is over. Be· cause most of the Irish opponents are Division III, while the Irish have to be Division I, Notre Dame does not qualify for the Division I post­season tournament. 





Fast, Free Delive..y-­
Throbbing head ? Quaking body? Has Monday dealt another 
crushing blow? Revive 
.. yourself with a well­rounded meal from Domino's Pizza. We'll help smooth the wrinkles out of your day. 
Call us. 
277·2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 
Plaza 23 Center 
233·3133 
1428 Calvert St. 
289·7100 
4333 W. Western 
277·8700 
51400 U.S. 31 North 
Our drivers carry less 
than $20.00. 
Limited delivery area 
®1984 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
r··--------------------~ 
Only $7.50 for a 
Monday 

one-item, 16" pizza plus two Cokes~
Madness One coupon per pizza. Expires in two weeks. 
....

Fast, Free Delivery~ 
• 
~·w.Good at listedr . . 2ert•locatiOn$. H 

• 
. " ·40BOO.t 2il~o-4 .. 


• ' ®
el, 

-· .• ,H ' •v ,....:.1....1·· 
' '\CW""a.?o'\C"'I

L--·-··-·······-·······J 
Classifi~eds 
continuedfrom page l2 
TO THE FIVE GUYS I THREn UP ON IN 
CORBY'S: Sorry, rt was my )irthday. 
Ted 
Mr. Small: 

What to say? This year has been like no other before it (and hopefully like no other after rt). You were one of the lew bastions of insanity in a place crowded filled with editors of various species. Will LaFortune ever be the same? Will Mem;,his ever be the same? Will-ever be thu same? 
-Kavln 
Jeff (Romeo): Thanks A WHOLE LOT for Ihe past few weeks! Gosh, if rt weren't for 'IOU and rum & cokes and Merlin and thu Commons and Buzz Club and all that ottl9r silliness I might have been able to graduate on time! Here's to ... II 
Love, Juliet 
Tom,MyManll 

What the hell are we still doing up here? Did you know that it's impos!:ible to swal­low a whole tea-bag? HerE's to NUKE GOD:, Wander Indiana, I QUIT, Ther· monuclear War, and a host of other ob· noxious past-ttmes. 
Q: What are you doing? The system's running slow. 
A: I know. n·s my system and I'll do whatever I want. Did you also know that TST ·(PC) is a BOZO NO-NO? 
Nawa Department 

Thanks for the great "trial month!" Now that the bugs are worked out (I) we're looking forward to a productive and effi· cient year. Have a safe and enjoyable summer. 
Dave Grote's laws: 

1. 
When in doubt, let Joe do it. 


2. 
When you drop a nickel down the sink, send Joe in after rt. 

3. 
When you wish upon a star, It's probably Joe. 

4. 
When you have a column to write, give Joe a call. 


Jell, 

When do you think they'll make tag· team drinking an Olympic evern? Probab· ly when there's some competition in our class (if that's possible). Buzz Club was a riot -thanks for the initiation. Do you still have my shirt? Did the cat have kittens yet? Nurse, pass the hemostats please. 
Hey Kevin-You're right, "Girls just wanna' have F-U· 
N . . . " and Mo and I did -Thanks for "being there' all those various occassions and on all those long walks home from our 'watering holes' -it's on to D.C. and Chicago-'til next year ... and Lou, can't we go to Naugles or the donut shop or . or . somewhere must be open..bye you, two . . signed your two favorite next door neighbors Ill 
UN: 

Thllnx ALOT lor putting up with ell my lnMnlly thla y..rl Hayl HaVII a grut tlma In D.C. naxt -rlI'll miMyoul 
love, M.P. 
Szarah, Papa Szmurt izs a rzaving homos· zexual. 
Mark Worscwheheh, 
Who broke wind? 
Bob Vanderwende, 
Who broke wind? 
WasijMarkW.? 
Indeed. 
M.-yHHiy, We know who h.. baen Nndlng you tlowera, but _.,. not ..lUng until a1 leaa1 next Seturdey. But U.n, you won't be hera. Hal Hal How do you make a BrHiah luxury llnar alnk? Over· load It with tlowera. 
For all you throats who want to catch up to Commodore Vic (20) Sciulli, he's taken up residence at the MotelS on 31. Please, no friends or prostijutes need visil. He's studying. 
Mergerat, Ughtan up, -nchl The days sra growing ahortar, and eo era you. 
Dzeve, Ithink our aacrat Ia atIll ..r..Nobody auapacta • thing. 
Bawera aport-rHera 
When you come back to school next fall, things will be different around the office. You'll even beabletoseethetopof the desk. Reporting should be easier and the quality of writing will improve. I will probably be in touch wijh you before you leave, but if I can't get a hold of you, you'll hear from me over the summer. By the way, if you will be staying at a different address from the one in the phone book, come up to the office and give me the cor· rect one. 
-MikeS. 
Mary, Maureen, Merlpat, Jell, and ell you other hom-erd-bound people, Remember to send us poor souls who are staying in South Bend some letters over the summer. Things get lonely around here, and it would be a nice to hear from some of you. 
-Mike, Kevin, etc. 
Herb really likes Karen It's not qurte love yet. but it's definitely more than friendship 
Give us our dally breed In Individual aile ... 
-Elvis Costello 

1--------------------------­
r-------------------------,
1 lUnited Limo I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I ~-I 
I ALL STOPS EASTERN STD. TIME EFFECTIVE APRIL 29. 1984 SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. . II 
Clip andSave this-ScheJule
L----··--------------------­
_____________________.... 
-----~------------~-------­



The Observer Monday, May 7, 1984 -page 14 
Saint Mary's soccer club defeats ND 
ByJEAN CRUTCHER 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer club ended is spring season over An Tos­tal weekend by capturing first place in the Notre Dame tournament. 
The Belles defeated Notre Dame 3-I in the final to win the same tournament that they could only finish fourth in last year. 
Saint Mary's beat Kalamazoo 1-0 and Northwestern 3-0 to reach the 
final~. 
Coach John Akers attributes the 
success of the club to the 
"dedication of the players and the 
coach. There is also a lot ofcompeti­
tion within the team which helps to 
drive the players to do their best." 
Akers also mentioned that the support and help of the athletic department, college, and grounds crew "is appreciated and has helped the club. Instead of being shoved off behind Angela, the club has been allowed to use the Madelleva field. This location has caused more campus interest n the sport." 
This past winter, Saint Mary's hosted its first annual indoor tourna­ment. The Belles won the consola­tion bracket by beating Notre Dame. 
Looking to next fall, Saint Mary's will be following an lntercollegate schedule and will play such schools as Michigan, Michigan State, Northwestern, and Marquette. 
Because so much interest has been shown in the sport, "there probably will be tryouts," said Akers. "We are looking forward to the return of people from foreign studies programs who we are sure will blend in well with the returning members of the team as well as new freshmen." 
"We are fortunate that this year a great many freshmen joined the club and that we are only losing four seniors. We anticipate that the quality of play will improve next year and that the club will be very competitive." 
A.I.S. Shipping and Packaging 
You wrap or we wrap 
3617 Mishawaka Ave. 
Mishawaka at Logan 
Mon.· Fri. 8:30 · 5:00 
We Ship Exclusively 
UPS 
PREPARE FOR: 
JUNE GMAT & LSAT 
LIVE CLASSES NOW 
• 
TEST·N·TAPE• LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TESt 

• 
HOMESTUDY PACKET 


-a call ~-hoolott 'Wnkeodo 
272· \135 
1717 E. Sou, 'B•nd Ave EClJCATJC:)NAL 
ce><ml 



Sports Briefs 
All returning students should have received a 1984 football ticket applications. Those who have not should come to the ACC ticket office by the end of the semester. -The Obseroer 
The interhall lacrosse champion for this year is Grace, who defeated Keenan 12-3. There were 10 teams involved this year, the first for interhalllacrosse action. -The Obseroer 
Sports transactions this weekend included the reassigning ofpitcher Dennis "Oil Can" Boyd by the Boston Red Sox to Pawtucket ofthe International League after his loss to the Chicago White Sox Saturday. Steve Crawford, pitcher, was recalled by the Red Sox. -AP 
The ND women's golfteamdefeated Evansville 720-741. Medalist for the match was Nancy Foster ofEvansvllle with 84-79-163. For the Irish, Angie Lloyd was 83-84-167 and Cathy Pen­na was 86-84-1 70. -The Observer 
Put us tq the Test! 
DOMINO'S PIZZA is ready tQr finals. We will be open 11 a.m. to 3 a.m. from Monday, May 7 to Tuesday, May15 We guarantee 30 minute service 
Call 277-2151 to order 

Good Things Gro~ in Summer 
• Your mind. Your credentials. Your value to yourself and the world around you. • 
Summer Sessions at Kent State University offer the chance for growth at one of Ohio's most pleasant campuses with easy access to cultural, entertainment. sports, and recreation facilities among the best and most exciting available to any university in America. 
• 
Begin your college career in the nicest weather with the least distractions. Get a jump on fall. · 

• 
Attend another university? Take courses at Kent State and transfer the credit. 

• 
Transfer to Kent State University and build on what you have. 

• 
Take evening courses and work toward that undergraduate degree while employed.

• 
Gain graduate credits for tenure or promotion in education or business. 

• 
Grow. Enjoy again the thrill of learning, of making progress, of building a fuller life. 


Clip and mail the coupon. It's something to grow on.
r-------------------------------------------------,
Send to: Director of Summer Session, Kent State University. 327 Rockwell Hall. D Please send Summer Schedule of Classes Kent. OH 44242 Bulletin. 
D Please send 1984-85 Undergraduate
YES. I want good things to grow for me this summer at Kent State University. 
Catalog. D Please send 1984-85 Graduate Catalog.
Name Home Phone ________ 
D I would commute. 
Street Address ---------------------------­D I would need campus housing. City State Zip --------I would be interested In summer sessions at 1 am: D A graduating high school senior who wants to start my college career one of the Kent State Regional Campuses. early. D A student attending another college or university who wants to take crt>dit 
D Ashtabula 0 East Liverpool D Geauga 
courses for transfer to my home school. D A transfer student coming from_a!;lg~ber 
D Salem (Burton Twp.) D Stark (Canton)college to Kent State. D A teacher interested in graduate credit. n In business 
D Trumbull (Warren) D Tuscarawas interested in graduate business credit. D A working person interested in evening (New Philadelphia)and weekend classes. D An adult interested in furthering my education. (specify)_ 
D Please send information about the following majors or degree programs: 
L----------~-~~~~~-----------------~-~~~-~-~------J
. .. .. .. .... \ .........."'." ..... ·..' .."·' ·.·.~ ..'.' ·.·.·~"·'. ·.·..... ~·-'. ·.·. . .. ... .. . . . •. " ...............·. 
The Saint Mary's softballteam participated in the 
NAIA District 21 State Tournament. The Belles lost their first game in the double elimination contest to Taylor, 17-8. In their second game, Saint Mary's defeated Manchester, 7-5. Annie Day was the w,inning pitcher andjennie Adamo hit a three-run triple. In their final game of the season, Huntington scored all three runs in the first two innings to beat the Belles 3-2. Their record for the season is 25-5. -The Obseroer 
In the interhall SOCCerchampionship, Dillon beat 
The Law School 1-0.-The Obseroer 
Saint Mary'S tennis team played Northeastern 
Illinois Friday, winning 7-0. Mary Carole Hall led the way with a 6-1, 6-0 victory over Kathy Cooper. -The Obseroer 
Holy Cross crushed Dillon in the 12" softball 
final, 1 1-0. -The Obseroer 
THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA & PUB 
"BRUNO'S" 


THIS MONDAY ONLY BRUNO will deliver a 16" pizza with 1 toppine for only $6.95 Each additional topping $1.00 extra 
Order 2--$1 offtotal price 

Mon -l'b.urs 
4~10PM 
SUMMER I:  Five-week term,  
June 11 ..July 14  
SUMMER II:  Eight-week term,  
June 11 -Augi.J.St 4  
SUMMER III:  Five-week term,  
July 16 -August 18  

Kent State University Supports Equal Opportunity In Education and Employment. 
1-216-672-3100 
Order 3--$2 offtotal price 4 or more--$3 offtotal price 
Fri-Sat 277-4519 Until12 am .Open Sunday 4-10 pm 


~c:tcJlCl~-----------------------------------M_o_n_d_~_,M__~_7_,_19_8_4~-p-a_~_l_S
Bloom Connty 

Mellish 





HERE'S M~ P~PER IT's MM 
I TElL YOU WHAr... 7HIS riME ON JUDfT~E 08SC~RE, FIFTEENTH 
I'U TELl 111M TO GO TD THE PROFESSOR. I'VE AND I 
BUZZ-CLUB PART~ AND YOU BEEN WORKING A! READ~ 
TELL HIM TO SWD~ •..­50 HARD ON IT, FlUNKED 
'0/

I DON'T HEN KNOW YOU. WIIAr DM IT IS! \ 

~-=-"'"~ 

The FarSide
Guindon Richard Guindon Garylarson 
7 p.m. 
8 p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9 p.m. 
10 p.m. 
10:30p.m. 
llp.m. 11:30p.m. 
"Look, give it a chance. If it doesn't sell, we'll drop 
it." "A louie, Louie ... wowoooo ... We gotta go .. now ..." • 
The Daily 
ACROSS 24 Pasture 1 Thin wedge 25 Hair holder for level· ing 28 Supporting5 Rescued shafts 10 Gentle 32 Sought taps 34 Val or 
14 Afr. ravine Cluny 35 Humor 36 Gaelic
15 Shadeof green 37 Happening 16 Pearl Buck 39 Sensible heroine 
40 Native: 17 Fermented suff. drinks 41 Begone! 18 Beamused 42 Meager In medicine 19 Poet 44 Withdraw Teasdale 46 Moslem prince
20 Protection used in the 47 Sea bird tropics 48 Man: pref. 
51 Life-saving 23 Below item
-

Crossword 
58 Celebes ox 
4 Cite in· 

59 Disease correctlyof rye 
5 Substantial 

60 Choir member 6 Winged 7 Eyeshade 61 Falling out 8 Not varying 62 Stirto 9 Castaways action 
10 Of mail service 63 Civil dis-11 Jai­turbance 12 Mountain lake 13 Hindrance
64 Feminine 
suffix 21 Wavy, in 65 Celerity heraldry 66 Adages 22 Far: pref. 
25 Transpar· DOWN ently thin 1 Didthe 26 Hospital crawl employee 2 Nimbus 27 Beginning 28 God of the 3 Romandate forests 
Berke Breathed 


Campus 
•12:15 
p.m.-Workshop, "The Potential Impact of Thailand's Alcohol Program on Produc­tion,Consumption, and Export of Casava, Sugarcane and Corn," Prasarn Boonserm, Ubrary Lounge 

•7:30 
p.m. -Student FUm and Video Show, O'Shaughnessy Loft, Free 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Gender: Implications for Pastoral Ministry," Susan Conley Weeks, Center for


&Dave 

Social Concerns 
YEAH,MOM,I'M GOING TO STICK AROUND HERE FoR ~ 


•7:45 p.m. -SMC Convocation, O'Laughlin
ANOTHER WEEK OR So ... I LikE IT 

Auditorium 
TV Tonight . 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
5/7/84 

All Rights Reserved 
29 Cognizant 48 Have a 30 Washing tiff cycle 49 Loop knot 31 Ranch 50 Lavished cattle too much 
33 What a love tantalus 51 Unclothed might hold 52 Standard 
34 Allow measure 38 Cask 53 Milieu for 39 Urns an artist 41 Withered 54 Support 43 One of the 55 Essayist tenses: 56 Stash abbr. 57 Small 45 Tell children
Friday'sSolution 
s lE lS Q IL IE u IE IT 
T~~~ IH 
ILIEIT :I.RIE
I'"":-~­~ 
6:30p.m. 
16 MASH 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel ofFortune 
16 TV Bloopers and Practical jokes 22 Scarecrow and Mrs. King 28 Going Back Home with the Stars 
16 Movie: ''V'' 22 Kate and Allie 28 ABC Monday Night Movie: "Last Days ofPompeii" 
22 Newhart 
22 Cagney and Lacey 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
16 Tonight Show 22 Hart to Hart/ Columbo 28 ABC News Nightline 
28 Eye on Hollywood 
16 Late Night With David Letterman 


rCOCCCCOOCCQCQQCQCCCOO""~..r..r.A>""".A>"""~ 
Earn oney
1 DARBY'S PLACE 
Campus 
~ FOR LATE NIGHT 
Mailman
I SNACKS needed for 1984-85 school year 
I 
Open 12-3 a.m. 
. you must be approved by financial
Sunday through Thursday 
§ at the Nazz in the aid 
. apply at Student Activities Board 
.1 Basement ofLaFortune 
offices, 2nd floor, .LafQftu.o~ ............. . 
·' 
.~.· "·~· M·~ .-,.·~~~-~~-Ill ~........ -·-·· ..... ,.~~ #-#···~~···
'·"

~.,;~_;,;;;_;.~.;.;.~...;;.:............... ....... ....... .......
....cr.....-..r...; ~_r _;._;. ~.,;._;.;...;.._u,.,;..,oec;;(i~.;...;Q;;..ooc· 
Monday, May 7, 1984 -page 16 
S~orts 
ND lacrosse team wins MLA championship 
By MIKE SULLIVAN team that had made the whole ning most ofthe face-offs and using a going to try to keep the ball." When Trocchi scored the first of Sports Editor scenario possible in the frrst place by patient ball-control offense. Their Despite the fact that MSll con­his three goals early in the second upsetting Ohio Wesleyan last week aggressive play also helped offset trolled the ball for much of the first quarter, the Irish seemed well in 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team's -almost ruined the Irish hopes on Notre Dame's ·superior talent and quarter, Notre Dame held a good control, 4-1. However, MSll's Riney lt-ading scorer, attackman Bob Troc­Cartier Field. The Spartans brought kept the ball away from a explosive edge on the scoreboard. Mark Wilke and Marc Berman scored less chi, finished the 191:!4 season on their tough, physical style of play Irish attack. Steranka batted the ball into the goal than a minute apart to cut the lead to Saturday with .36 goals, but none was with them and made Notre Dame "They were winning most of the to give the Irish an early lead, and one. more valuable than the 36th goal. It earn every goal it scored. face-offs and were controlling the senior tri-captain Kevin Smith in­The Irish rebounded, however, was his final goal with I:31:! remain­That is, except for the last one. ball most of the time," O'Leary ex­creased the lead to 2-0 by scoring off when Smith batted in a goal on an Ing in the fourth quarter of Satur­With the score tied at 10 and Michi­plained. "I don't think they were a pass from joe Franklin. extra-man situation and Tim Cor­day's contest with Michigan State gan State holding the momentum of outplaying us, though, because we The Spartans cut the lead to 2-1, rigan bounced a shot in the upper that gave the Irish a hard-fought I I­a two-goal streak, Notre Dame really aren't a ball-control team. We but Tom Grote was able to duke his corner of the net. With a 6-3 lead, I 0 victory over the Spartans. worked for a shot. Senior Steve Pear­get the ball and go to the goal, so, defender and score to cap off the Notre L\J.me once again looked to be 
The Notre Dame win, coupled sall, who had scored a goal earlier in unlesswe get a large lead, we're not scoring in the quarter. 
see LACROSSE, page 13 

with Denison's victory over Ohio the game, took a shot that the MSU Wesleyan, earned Rich O'Leary's goalie stopped easily. The ball, squad the Midwest Lacrosse Associa­however, rolled out from under the tion championship, and gave the netting of his stick and Trocchi, in Irish, who have no scholarships, a the right place at the right time, reasonable claim to the title of the poked the loose ball into the net. best lacrosse team in the Midwest. Up to that point, though, the Spar­
Notre Dame ended its season with tans provided a tougher challenge a 9-3 record, its best in its four years than expected. The Irish had as a varsity sport. Its I:!-I MLA record destroyed nearly every opponent tied it with Denison for first place in except Denison during their victory the conference; however, the Irish streak, controlling most of the were awarded the championship by games from the outset. Michigan virtue of their I 2-I I win over State, though, was greatly improved Denison on April 25. from last year and never allowed 
Entering Saturday's game, O'Leary Notre Dame to take complete con­and his players knew that they had to trol ofthe game. win in order to have a chance at the "Michigan State is a good team ­MI.A title. They also knew that a lot better than most people give Denison had to beat Ohio Wesleyan. them credit fur," said O'Leary. "They About fifteen minutes after fulfilling make you play their physical game their end ofthe scenario, they heard and take you out ofyour own game." The Bradley that Denison had done the same. The Spartans were able to stay Kevin Smith, a tri-captain on the lacrosse team, pionship last weekend defeating Michigan State 11­
However, Michigan State -the close throughout the game by win-scoredone ofthegoals as the Irish won the MIA cham-10. SeeMikeSullivan'sstoryabove. 
Record 23-22 

Notre Dame wins 
Baseball team wins three of four 
Midwest Catholics 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN the loss. In the nightcap, Mark Irish were able to end the game ear­
By CHUCK EHRMAN
Sports Writer Clementz(5-S) pitched Notre Dame ly, however, with a six-run rally in Sports Writer
to a 6-3 win. Their record stands at their halfofthe inning. Entering Saturday's doubleheader 23-22. Third basemanjim Dee ended the 
The Irish finished first Saturday at the Midwest Catholic Cham­
against Huntington with a 20-21 Against Huntington, sophomore contest with his fourth home-run of pionship held here at Notre Dame.
record, the Notre Dame baseball Irish hurler Mark Watzke continued the season which made the score 14­DePaul took second.
team played so well that both games his outstanding season by pitching a 4. Watzke took the win, and his Individual winners include: Mike Collins ( 10,000), Bill Courtney
were cut short before they had run six-hitter in the opener. The Irish record now stands at an impressive (steeple chase),Jim Crandal (javelin), Gary LeKander (triple jump),
their scheduled length. sluggers backed him up with a ten­4-0. Jim Moyar ( 1,500), Mike Brennan ( 110 high hurdles),John McNelis
hit, fourteen-run performance of Dee had three hits, including his (800), Mitch Van Eyken (I00), Dan Shannon ( 200),James Patterson
The Irish swept the shortened their own. home-run and a double, and drove in (long jump), and the 4x400 relay team ofJeff Van Wie, Van Eyken, 
twinbill at jake Kline Field by scores Notre Damf' put Huntington far four runs. Mike Metzler continued Shannon, and Gilmore.
of 14-4 and 14-0. Since Huntington behind right from the start, as they to tear up opposing pitching, as he Both Courtney and Moyar qualified for the upcoming IC4As.
was willing to use a 10-run lead rule scored four times in the first inning went 2-2 with two doubles and 4 which is usually used only in NAIA and sent three more across the plate RBI. Outfielder Mike Trudeau con­competition, both games were in the second. Another run in the tributed a double and two singles. brought to an abbreviated end in the fourth sent the Irish out to a The Irish won the second game 
Edmonton Oilers face 
fifth inning. seemingly comfortable lead. even more handily than the first. Yesterday, the Irish split with But Watzke experienced a scare While they slugged fourteen and Lewis College, losing the first game in the fifth, as Huntington cut the scored another fourteen runs, hurler 
Islanders in Cup finals
4-0, with joe Dobash (2-7) taking Irish lead in halfwith four runs. The Jason Schomer shut out Huntington on five hits. Assoclated Press got two quick goals in the third 
Two runs crossed the plate for the game," said Islander Mike Bossy, Irish in the first inning, but that was UNIONDALE, N.Y. -It now who had three game-winning goals nothing compared to what would will be up to the Edmonton Oilers to in the series. "We got a 5-0 lead and happen in their halfofthe third. do what Montreal couldn't do -could relax. We never had a big lead 
A power display by the Irish in this stop the New York Islanders and in any game before that, where we inning led to a nine-run outburst. preserve the Canadiens' National could sit back and have fun out Both Vuono and Metzler hit homers Hockey League record of five con­there." to highlight the inning. With this secutive Stanley Cups, achieved "From then on, we were back to show of offensive firepower, the from 1956-60. being in control ofour game." Irish increased their lead to 11-0. "We wanted to beat them for the They'll need total control of their Another three runs in the fourth players from those teams," said game to beat the Oilers in the Stan­seemed to ice the game for the Irish Montreal forward Mario Tremblay ley Cup final, which opens here at 14-0. after the Islanders won the Prince of Thursday night. The Islanders swept 
While the Irish hitters tore the Wales Conference final playoff Edmonton in four games in the 1983 cover off the ball, pitcher Schomer series in six games with a 4-1 victory final series. allowed Huntington nothing. He Saturday night. "But they had too "They're going to come at us benefited from outstanding much for us." much faster," said Islanders' captain defensive plays by Trudeau in the For the first two games, the Denis Potvin, who established a frrst inning, and by Steve Passinault Canadiens were in control of the playoff mark with 98 career assists in the third. Both efforts saved runs series. They won twice at home and with two assists in the clinching for the Irish hurler. made the Islanders look like any­game. "They want the puck badly. 
After Huntington could not score thing but four-time champions. But Montreal, at times, didn't seem to in the fifth, the game was called a 14-the Islanders hit their stride in Game want to have the puck." 0 victory for the Irish. Schomer 3 and outscored Montreal 15-5 the picked up the win to raise his record rest ofthe series. The Islanders began to turn to 3-2. "I'm glad we had a chance to get a around the conference final when 
Vuono's two homers gave him 5 crack at them," said Canadiens' cap­their forwards assumed control of RBI to lead the team, and Metzler tain Bob Gainey, who played the last the puck. picked up 3 RBI with his smash over two games with a separated left Also, they started getting the first the centerfield fence. Dee chipped shoulder. "It gave us a taste ofwhat it goal, just as Montreal had done in its in with three singles. takes to beat a club like this." two victories. 
The Observer/Thorn Bradley The Irish travel to Valparaiso But only a taste. The Canadiens "We knew we had to get on top 


jack Moran and the Irish baseball team went three-for-four this  today for a single game. Tomorrow,  never  came  close to finishing the  and make them try to come back,"  
weekend,  mauling  Huntington  Collegeand  spliting  its  the team will close the season with a  meal.  said  Clark  Gillies,  who  has  seven  
doubleheader with Lewis College. See Eric Scheuermann's story  doubleheader against Northwestern  "All it took for us was to get a fast  playoff goals after scoring only 12  
above.  atJake Kline field.  start and I saw it coming when we  during the regular season.  





