Clubs -page 4 


VOL XVIII, NO. 75 lh<: inUt.·p<:nUent ~tudt:nl nt·\\·~papcr ~C..T\'ing notre dan1c and ~aint rnan ·~ THURSDAY,JANUARY 26, 1984 

The Far Side's creator to bring humor to ND 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE became an overnight success on News Editor campus when they first appeared in TbeObserveronJan. 18.1983. Then­The Far Side is coming, the Far Managing Editor Ryan Ver Berkmoes Side is coming. selected Larson from a pool of Take a shower, wake the kids and single-panel cartoonists hoping to tell them it's true. fill the vacuum created when 
That creative mind behind the Doonesbury and Molarity left the cartoon madness -the very.genius world ofcomics. who's sweeping the campus as The Another campus panel. Brian ­Observer's lunch time laugh-track -the saga of a six-month-year-old will. in fact. irrevocably. be here. Domer, was not a success among 
Not Purdue. Not USC. But here. students, Ver Berkmoes said. On campus. Tuesday. Jan 31. 8 p.m. Far Side analysts say the cartoon in the Library Auditorium. reaches intellectual plateaus far 
Gary Larson. the eccentric behind beyond the vanilla nature of such dogs who mow grass and cows who mundam· strips as Blondie and raid the freezer, is the freshest thing Peanuts. Larson's cartoons tell what to hit the campus since fish on life could be like if Adam hadn't Fridays. He's the Einstein of elep­eaten the apple. and he shows how hants, the Copernicus of cat~. You funny it is because Adam did. The see things one way, and Larson turns 
THE FAR SIDE . .By GARY LA~SON 
Tin· Observer/Javkr Oliva 
it upside down, backwards, and ­
Fast Volunteers World Hunger Coalition's Wednesdayfast. One dollar he'll make St. George
watch out ­Ed Colbert enlists eager recruits Steve Simone, Mark will be donated for each meal missed this semester. attack wagons and spiders catch Monachino, Don Vecellio, and john Crilly for the Sign-ups will continue today in the dining balls. humans for dinner. 
Larson will bring the whole kit and caboodle to Notre Daml· when he delivers a mishmash of slides, in­sight and humor that he collectively

JPW application deadline Jan. 31 
calls "A Look Behind The Far Side." The presentation promises to reveal Larson's personal thoughts on car­

By STEPHEN REIDY tables. Each table will have I 0 was the highest ever, and Schmutz toon humor, how he began his busi­
News Staff places. Late seating changes may be said this year's percentage is pretty ness, and why he gravitated toward

made by calling Connie O'Brien at close to that figure. Events are ex­animals as characters, said Mary Mar­
Juniors and their parents have un­8II2. pected to run as smoothly this year garet Schmid, academic commis­
til Jan. 3I to return their ticket ap­Dinner seating tickets, name tags as last since Schmutz, Colarossi and sioner ofthe Student Union.
plications and checks for Junior and all other tickets can be picked Executive Coordinator Steve Smith Larson has published two books,Parents' Weekend. up either by the student or his worked on Weekend committees 
The Far Side and Beyond The Far 

While Farmer Brown was away, the cows got
The applications can be dropped parents at registration during the last year. 

into the kitchen and were having the time of
Side, both of which scored well on 

their lives-until Betsy's unwitting diKovery. 
offin the Student Activities Office on weekend. Registration will be Although details and. last minute 
the New York Times and the Wash­

the first floor of LaFortune, where Thursday, Feb.16, from 6:30-I0:30 preparations still lie ahead, "laying common denominator is irony. ington Post best-seller lists. The Stu­
students can also pick up extra tick­p.m., Friday, Feb. I7 from 9 a.m.-8 the groundwork, that's all done," Larson, 33, began his series three
dent has

et orders for relatives or friends. p.m., and from 9-I2 Saturday morn­said Schmutz. "Until we get all the Union arranged an years ago, and it now appears in I I 0
autographing session at theExtra tickets are no problem, ing, all in LaFortune. Families can ticket returns from the parents, it's daily newspapers syndicated byBookstore afternoon

according to Executive Coordinator also register at the Cocktail Dance hard to coordinate the numbers; but on Tuesday 
from 1 to 3.

of the Weekend Linda Colarossi, as Friday night in the ACC. everything else is pretty much taken See FAR SIDE page 5 
The cartoonist's zany drawingslong as they are returned by theJan. All Juniors are encouraged to at­care of." 31 deadline. Requests for more tick­tend the events, even iftheir parents et orders or any questions about can't make it. "If your parents aren't 
tickets can be directed to Colarossi coming, you should still go with 


'America back,' declares Reagan 
at 2737. your roommates," says Junior Juniors should make their seating Parents' Weekend Chairman Mike reservations for the Feb. 1 7 Presi­Schmutz. "You can order extra tick­
Associated Press authority to veto selected congres­seated in the chamber. Thedent's Dinner on Tuesday, Jan. 3I or ets through Linda or register at the sional projects without killing entire diplomatic corps arrived en masseWednesday, Feb. I between 7 and 9 Student Activities Office." Schmutz WASHINGTON (AP)-President money bills -a power long sought tboard buses, as part of the securityp.m. on the first floor ofLaFortune. A added that anyone with special Reagan declared in an election-year and always denied his predecessors. precautions.
student may bring up to six J.D.'s, needs for handicapped parents State of the Union address last night And he repeated his support for a In words directed to Sovietenabling him to reserve places for should call him at 12I5. 
that "America is back, standing tall," balanced budget amendment that eaders. Reagan said "there is only18 to 20 people at two adjoining Last year's turnout of 70 percent and he sought constitutional power would make it more difficult for 3ne sane policy. for your country to trim spending and pare the Congress to approve red-ink spend­and mine, to preserve our civiliza­federal deficit -without raising ing. Reagan's own budget plan, due tion in this modern age: a nuClear

Jr. Mother's Weekend 
taxes. next week, is expected to carry a war cannot be won and must never And hours after engaging House deficit of $180 billion. be fought." Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill in a bitter Talks to reduce medium and long­
exchange over Mideast policy, Reagan said his administration range U.S. and Soviet nuclear 
Reagan told a joint session of will later propose a total overhaul of weapons were broken off by the ByJENNIFER BIGOTT academic standing requested invita­Congress he is determined to keep the federal tax code in "an historic Soviets following the dt:ployment of StaffReporter tions for this weekend at the last U.S. forces in Lebanon because the reform for fairness, simplicity and in­new U.S. missiles in Europe. Reagan 
minute, according to Clark. United States must never be turned centives for growth." His timetable said the superpowers' arsenals were 
The overwhelming response to Several events have been planned away by "state-sponsored ter­called for Treasury Secretary Donald intended to make sure neither uses Junior Mother's Weekend at Saint for the students and their mothers, rorism." T. Regan to draw up recommenda­the weapons. He asked: "Would it Mary's has raised some serious ques­which include a welcome reception Reagan asked congressional tions by December -a month after not be better to do away with them tions as to whether sufficient accom­Friday night, a fashion show Satur­leaders to join him in developing a the election. entirely?" modations will be available, day, dinner Saturday night at the "down payment" on the federal Reagan was greeted by the tradi­He called on the nation to unite according to Lauren Huot, member Americana Hotel, and a Sunday Mass deficit by enacting "some of the less tional standing ovation upon his ar­"to keep America free, secure and at of the Junior Mother's Weekend and brunch. contentious spending cuts" he al­rival in the House chamber at 9:01 peace in the '80s," and said that it is Committee. Two different package deals were ready has proposed and by closing p.m. EST. But Democrats sat on their now "safer, stronger. and more 
Several more people than offered this year, which raised some tax loopholes. But he rejected a hands until they punctuated with a secure in 1984 than before. We can originally anticipated are expected problems, said Drabick. "People major tax hike as a "Band-Aid so'Ju­cheer his statement that "we must now move with confidence to seize to participate in the weekend, said couldn't decide which package they tion to cure an illness that has been bring federal deficits down." They the opportunities for peace, and we Huot. "There are so many coming, it wanted .... We thought by giving c t oming on for half a century." roared even louder when he added: will." just kind of took us by storm," she them a choice it would be easier but "How we do that makes all the dif­With Republicans and Democrats 
The president proposed one cost­ference." 

could become crowded 
said. it turned out to be a little bit harder," critical of his failure to close the 
ly new item himself-a permanent­His visit to the Capitol
Co-chairpersons Patty Drabick she said. was federal deficit, and an upcomingly manned space station, costing $8
and Lorrie Clark are in charge ofhan­Drabick said seating will be tight marked by the tightest security budget plan that will include a near­billion over I 0 years, "to develop measures ever. While Reagan spoke,
dling the weekend. Approximately at the Americana Hotel for dinner record $180 billion gap, he turned 
our next frontier."
50 juniors who were not on the class Saturday, and the Sunday brunch, his wife, Nancy, watched from the to Congressional leaders to begin list due to either participation in He asked for a constitutional gallery. House and Senate members, nt·gotiations on a plan to reduce the programs abroad or a changed St>e MOM page 4 !1-me_ndment to give him "line itum" the Cabinet and diplomats were .deficit. 
__j 
The Observer Thursday,January 26, 1984-Q page 2 

In Brie£ 
Goodbye WSND; hello \VVFI. The new call 
ktters ti.lr tht: campus radio station, which stand fur the Voice of the Fightin' Irish, were selected recently by the executive board of the station and approved by the Office ofStudent Activities. WSND-AM b hoping to become an I'M station, and a name change will be neces· sary to avoid confusion with the University's other radio station, WSND-FM. The switch to FM must still he approved by the Federal 
Communications Commission. A decision on WSND-AM's applica­tion is not expected for several months. -The Observer 
While everyone else is trying to put com· 
puters in college. a Kent State University student has reduced college to a computer game. Christopher Skapura, a graduate stu· dent in business administration, says he drew heavily on his own college t·xperknce in designing the computer simulation. The ob­ject of the adventurt· game is to graduate with a B.A. Surviving n·gistration is the first of many tasks players encounter. Others in· dude seeking financial aid, facing the bursar, and passing a chem test. Discovering the proper sequence becomes part of the chal­lengt· .. just like in life, says Skapura. There are only a few "fatal errors" in tht· game. One involves a fraternity house, a character nanu·d Bluto, a cheat sheet, and a quantity of alcohol. You figure it out. The game is not for people with low frustration levels. If you want to pick up a book and the computer is programmed to respond to "get book," it won't give it to you if you type "take book." Most players who can cope with that sort of thing seem to enjoy solving the puzzk, says Skapura. -The Observer 
Three law students passed the magical IOK (calorie) mark in last night's IOK eating marathon. Sixteen contes­tants started the gruding race through plates of spaghetti and mounds of ice cream, but only six finished the calorie-laden course. Jack M<:Cormick, also known for his appearance on Wheel' of Fortune, ate his way to first place by consuming a whooping I I ,400 calories. McCormick devoured five plates ofspaghetti, five slices of Italian bread, two double-dip ice cream cones, a large bag of pop­corn, and seven beers on his roll to victory. Other finishers were: Paul Kolcsnakovas, I I ,OSO calories; Wayne Patrick, I0,800 calories; Jim Slattery, 7,700 calories; Tom Brilbeck, S,IOO calories; and john Bemis, 4,000 calories. Slattery will also appear on the Wheel of Fortune on Feb. 3 at 7:30p.m. -The Observer 
Stock prices lapsed into a sharp decline in late trading yesterday as traders awaited President Reagan's State of the Union message. Analysts said the selling was prompted by speculation that Reagan might pull a surprise in the next few days and decide against running for re-election. The White House, however, said shortly af­
ter the market dosed that there had been no change in the plans calling for the president to announce his intentions for his political future on Sunday night. -AP 
A small disruption in sugar metabolis~ during.the first month of pregnancy may be responsible for a vanety of b1rth defects, including major malformations of the brain and spinal cord, animal research suggests. Scientists found that high levels of one form ofsugar could disrupt glycolysis, the process ofbreaking down sugars and other carbohydrates which produces the energy which embryos need to form major organs early in their development. ­
AP 
A LaPorte County man who was sexually abused whik incarcerated as a juvenile was sentenced to death yesterday for the sex slayings of two teen-age boys. "l think he's a tormented pt·rson," said defense attorney Gregory Hofer of Michigan City. "As of today, for him to be at peace is to be dead." Asked if Davis wants to die in Indiana's t:leetric chair, Hofer replkd: "He's indicated that he does. lie's indicated that tht· victims (families) will feel better ifhe's tkad." lloti.:r said ht· did not know what he would do if Davis refused to appt·al. -AP 
Of Interest 
Successful job hunters know more than how to fill olll an application -they know secrets and tactics. Students will have a chance to learn some of these taetics at the Kirby Stanat Job Hunter's Seminar todav. The seminar will be presented twice: the first session begins at ~ p.m. in room 30:~ of Cushing Hall, and the Sl-cond bt·gins at ~ p.m. in the auditorium of the Memorial Library. The seminars will eat·h be two hours long and are being presented hy Cart·er and Plan·mt·nt Services. -The Obsen•er 
Billed as the only fraternity on campus, the 
Knights ofColumbus is holding an open house tonight at 7:30 at the 
K ofC hall, next to the Bookstore. -The Obsen•er 

Weather 
The sun won't be shining, but today's high of 4.~ degrees should thaw things out a littk. It will he increasingly cloudy this afternoon with a low tonight of 29 degrees. -The Ob· sen1er 


Woman SBP must promote controversy, not cooperation 
Women have attended Notre Dame for more than IO years, but a woman has never been elected student body president. 
As the deadline for student body president applica­tions approaches, one can only hope that a strong woman candidate will enter the race. 
Wh y? 
Male student body presidents misunderstand their 
roles -instead of serving as cattle prods to keep ad­
ministrators honest, they generally cooperate with Uni­
versity officials for the sake ofunity. 
Take the present student body pn:sident as an example. 
This time last year, The Ob$erver made a grave mistake -it endorsed Brian Callaghan for student body president. 
As far as dedication to the students goes, no one can doubt Callaghan's sincerity. Callaghan has been influen· tial in changing the laundry 

Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Thursday 


Callaghan, however, entered the dispute last November, not to support the principle of the paper's fight with the administration, but to bring together both sides as an arbitrator. 
A student body president, unlike a politician, has no re-election campaign to fear -making enemies should be Callaghan's least worry. 
As such, conflict should be Callaghan's middle name. There are many burning issues with which to eon­front administrators. And kegs on campus is not a bur­ning issue. 


policy to allow men to use Notre Dame is no shining washers and dryers in example of virtue and open­women's dormitories. Also, ness. Among other things, the D-6 parking lot next to the University aids apartheid the ROTC building, was in South Africa through its p-<~ved last summer due in investment policy, opposes part to Callaghan's efforts. unionization of its 
But Callaghan has never employees and encourages doubted the good intentions unhealthy attitudes toward of administrators and has sexuality by insisting on continually balked at any single-sex dormitories. possible confrontation. But Callaghan should be at the then again, that's exactly forefront of the fight against 
what he and Student Body such inconsistencies. In­Vice President Peggy stead, he wants to join Notre Prevoznik promised in their Dame President Father platform. Theodore Hesburgh's so­"Both sides (students and called Notre Dame family. 
administrators) look upon 

each other as opponents," stid Callaghan. "As a result students fail to listen to and understand administration policies. Furthermore, the administration claims that students don't seem to con­sider the effects of their (administrators') programs over a long period of time. 
"We (Callaghan and Prevoznik) plan to eliminate these feelings by dealing directly with the administra­tion face-to-face. This avoids issues being blown out of proportion. Both sides must be open-minded. With such cooperation and communication, we can ac­complish our goals." 
One might suspect any critique of Callaghan by The Observer to be a knee jerk response to his failure to stick up for the paper In its fight with the administration. And in large measure such an observation is correct. 
As a student voice on campus, The Observer is a watchdog of all University affairs. But more important­ly, The Observer represents Notre Dame's loyal opposi­tion. 
As a man, it would seem 
quite logical for Callaghan to support cooperation within such a male-dominated household. 
Notre Dame women, on the other hand, are the bas­
tards of the Notre Dame family. They know what dis­
crimination is first hand. 
Only one woman, Assistant Provost Sister, John 
Miriam jones, is an upper-level administrator. Also, only 
20 percent of the family are women. 
As a member ofan oppressed group at Notre Dame, a woman student body president would best kno~ how to serve as leader of conscientious students who are tired ofpassively cooperating with a sexist University. 

Until a gutsy woman becomes student body presi· dent and openly confronts administrators about press­ing issues, students can expect little change in lhiversity policy. After all, confrontation brings issues out into the public. And administrators sure hate looking bad in public. 
.__The_Qbseryer_ 

EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY ZHOURS EVERY DAY 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Composition Editor.......... Carole Laugier Composilio11 Assistant ............... Maureen Layout Staff. Claire. Usa, Janna, and Mk­
hacl Typesetters ................ Carol, Vic and Kt·vin Neu•s Editor .... Amy Stephan Copy Editor... . ....... Peter Ciotta Sports C"PY Editor ............. Marc Ramirez 
Vi(•upoiut Lt~vout. .. ... Kc:ith and Tom ND /Jt~J' Editor..... ............ Me:linda Moore .\~\IC Da)• Editor..... . ............ Jody Radkr Ad Desig11...... . .................. Paul Slota PbtJtographer ............................ J>vicr Oliva 
The Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on hom~ football Saturdays, exc~pt during t•xam and vacation pt·riods. The Observer·is published bv the students of the University of Notre Dame amt Saint Mary's College. SubscriptiotiS my be purchased for 125 peryear (II 5 per semester) by writing The Observer. 
P.O. Box Q, Notrt· Damc.lndiana 46SS6. 
The Observer is a member ofThe As· soclated Press. All r~production rights art:" reserved. 



The Observer 


A Welcome Back Sale 
We accept student Check with N.D.ID 
Thursday,January..~6_, 1984-page 3 


Transit provided to Purdue game 
By EDWARD NOLAN Keenan Revue Party following the Feb. 7. Liebowitz has appeared Neu•sStaff show were finalized at last night's numerous times on Late Night u·ith Programming board meeting. A disc David Letterman. 
Transportation to next fall's jockey will begin spinning records Franks also announced student Purdue vs. Notre Dame football and music will be piped through all identification cards will no longer game in the Indianapolis Hoosier of the Haggar College Center just af­be picked up at Angela Athletic Dome will be provided free of ter 1 l p.m. Anyone with a ticket to a Facility begining this Fall. All !D's charge by the University to all Notre Revue performance will be admitted will be distributed on the third floor Dame and Saint Mary's students, Lee free to the party, while others will be of the Haggar College Center. Ann Franks, president of Saint Mary's charged a dollar. Saint Mary's student government Programming Board, announced Humorist and author of Social collected almost Si 000 to be given yesterday. Studies, Fran Liebowitz will speak at as a Christmas present in its Adopt-a· 
Plans for Saint Mary's Feb. 3 Saint Mary's Carroll Hall at 8 p.m. Family program. 

Phone line delays teller opening 
the Haggar College Center, was couple ofweeks to fix the telephone
By KAREN THOMPSON 
originally scheduled to open during line though," she added.
News Staff 
An incorrectly installed the beginning ofJanuary. Students who chose to receive a telephone line was blamed for the "We hope that students will be Resource card paid an installment delay in opening the new Resource able to use the teller by next week," fee of S 10. Freshman Bernice Young Center at Saint Mary's. The said Branch Supervisor Rosemary claims she "didn't pay that much automatic banking teller, located in Remble. "It could take as long as a money to use the card the last week of school." She continued, "I would like better service for the students, because it's about the only bank we
What Does the 
have access to." Students weren't personally

Student Union Record Store 
notified of the delay because First Source couldn't give a definite date

Have in Store for Me 
as to when the automatic teller would be operating. 
"A lot of good the sign does for

CHEAPER PRICES ... su,.u-J2•ffi1S1pri<·es! 
those who have a card," said fresh­man Susie Ness. "The students 

MOSTCURRENTSINGLES-!'6.50tCompu""' 
$8.99/ist) 
should have been personally

CUT-OUTS ... !2.911-J5.9B 
notified to avoid wasting time

GREATSELECTION... Sprin,..~een. Fogetber,, s~eveie 
Nicks, Christopher Cross, Moudy Blue.\, Pol Benoror. Journey und walking to the bank." 
many, many more ... When the teller begins operation, 
A LSQ.. , rewrded and blank topes available. money will be available in 
CONVENIENCE... TheNDSU RecurdSw•·eis /o,·u~ed denominations of SS and 520. Stu­on the Mom Floc1r ofLaFortune. 
dents will be able to withdraw up to 
Plus-ordaed albums toke only vne week 10 arrive.' 
S200 every three days and will have the option of using the banking service whenever the College Cen­ter is open. 


"WE BEAT ALL ADVERTISED PRICES" JUST BRING IN THEIR AD. 
PRICES GOOD THRU JANUARY 21, 1984 

WINE Canei Wines 2.99750ml Andre  BEER Budweiser LP 7.89  LIQUOR Jack Daniels 750ml Kings Cellar Vodka  7.99  
Champagne 2.49 IHudwelse%11 Stroh LP I b 6.79 


750ml 

•~~::~..:.:~ Miche o 8.99
24bottles 
Carlo Rossi  2for  8.99  
CORDIALS  
Apple Barrel  
Schnapps750ml  5.29  
Amorita  
~mVlaretto  4.99  

Peppermint Schnapps Hiram Walker 


Heineken  24 bottles 14.29  
Ballantine LP  3.99  
Meisterbrau LP  5.99  

QUARTS 

Lite 8.89 Miller 7.29 Old Milwaukee 7.09 Budweiser 9.49 
Budweiser 
29.99
HALF BBL 
Lite 
27.99
Half BBL 

Michelob 
HALF BBL 
36.99 
6.99
1 75L 
Everclear 
7.99
750ml 
Bacardi 151 
7.99

750ml 
Kings Cellar 
Rum 
8.99
1.75L 
Bailey's Irish 
Creme 
10.99
750ml 
Seagrams i7 Crown 
4.99
750ml 
Southern 
Comfort 
5.99
750ml 80 proof 
Old Style
HALF BBL 
9bl~ Milwaukee24.99 
kJ!s~ 22.99 

~.....­
The Observer Thursday,January 26, 1984-page 4 

Student activities asks r---------------------,
YOO CAN AFFORD lHE LOOK YOO LOVE AT ••• 

clubs to list members 


IWORLD BAZAAR! I
By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
StaffReporter 
Each of Notre Dame's 174 clubs is 
being asked to submit a roster of 
dub members and their student 
identification numbers to the stu­
dent activities office by the end of 
this month. 
Student Activities Director James 
McDonnell, who made the request 
last week at the Notre Dame Presi­
dent's Dinner, said this information 
will serve as "concrete data to make 
statements about student involve­
ment at Notre Dame." 
With this information in its new 
computer system, McDonnell's 
office hopes to to direct programs 
toward involving all segments of the 
Notre Dame community in univer­
sity life. 
McDonnell said his office will not 
cite individuals for lack of participa­
tion, but will study "classes and col­
leges proportionately under the 
average level of involvement," and target programs toward these groups. 
"Right now we a<.·t on 
myths,"explaincd McDonndl,"thc 
computer will help us come up with 
important litctual information." 
"It <.'ould assist in planning 
programs and activities while allow­
ing us to come to an understanding 
of where we are at Notre Dame," 
continued McDonnell. 
Many schools across the country are now developing activity transcripts on each individual stu­dt·nt, similar to academic transcripts such as those found in the school's registrar's office. According to McDonnell, this is not the goal of this project. 
Instead, McDonnell's office has devised this system to study, for ex­ample, how many students from the College of"X" take part in dub "Y" or arc there significantly less "Z" yc:ar students involved with com­munity groups than the overall average should indicate. 
"New identifi<.·ation cards with all 
kinds of uses" will bt· introdu<.·ed 
next rear, explained McDonnell. 
The new cards will help the Univer­
sity dt·tt•rmine how many students 
participate in specific events such as 
the number of "Z" }'t'ar students to 
atlend a concert, dance or lecture. 
continuedfrom page I 
...Mom 
originally st·hnluled to takt· plan· downstairs in tht· dinin)ot hall, has lwen moved upstairs to fhc main dining area to a<.-conH>date more peopk. 
lkspitt· tht· expected difficulties, studt·nts appear to oc optimistic about this Wt'l'kend. "It's been run very smoothly," said Linda Gilroy of l.t·Mans. 
"I think it's going to go O.K. .... As far as the pcopll' I've talked to. they're h>Okin~ot forward to it. I think it should go pretty well," Huot said. 
NOTICE 

Due to construction 
Original Coney Island 
·has new hours 9am-9pm Mon.·Sat. 
25C club cards honored 1-9p.m. 
f)e/iveries unti/Sp.m. ($/lmin. order) 
According to McDonnell, an al­phabetical listing of each Notre Dame student and his or her ac-


I • Desk & Swag Lamps Itivities will not be kept. Rather, a lis­ting of each club and its members I • Scented Candles Iwill be developed enabling the Stu­• Cane Hampers dent Activities Office to make 
I • Storage Trunks I
general claims about a certain group's participation in a club or 

• Matchstick Blinds 
I I 
area. • Silk Aowers 
I 
Also, the admissions department 

• Potpourri I 
could use the listings to determine 

J 
the percentage of Notre Dame stu­• Set of Mugs I dents involved in activities on the • Incense
I I
whole. 

• Dressing Tables 
McDonnell is requesting that each 
I 
& Rattan Chairs I
club submit this roster of its mem­bers except geographical clubs, since their main aim is to organize 

Coupon Valid Thru ~ 
rides and happenings pertaining to their hometowns, and varsity sports, 

Feb. 29, 1984 I 
since 1they are chartered through the athletic department. McDonnell, who hopes t to have all of this information in his office by 

~~~~~~~~SALE I 
the t·nd of this semester, realizes problems may arise within the 

AU REGULARLy I 
various clubs, and therefore will 

. PRICED MERCHANDISE I
plan to provide listings of the Notre 
IN STORE Wlllt

14;\me student body and their stu­dent numbers for the use of the a lltiS COUPON I clubs in the Student Activities Office. 
I dl:-... ~/}_/BAZAAR® ~~
UnivenltyParll
McDonell believes it will probab­

~ ''~-ShopplngCenter272·6861 1:::::'::::::1
ly take most of this semester to es­

I ffijl
f. DIVISION OF MUNFORD, INC. Scottsdale Mall 291-7492
tablish this system, hut feels the long term benefits will be well worth it. 



L---------------------~ 
Knights of Columbus 
Notre Dame Council, No. 1477 Box73 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
January 20, 1984 
Notre Dame Community: We are pleased to extend to you an invitation to join the Knights of Columbus and to participate witb us in some of the programs with which we are responding to the needs of our times. 
We are committed to all areas of Church and social involvement: in vocations, human rights, family life, interfaith dialogue, support for law and order, oppor· tunity for the disadvantaged, and many other areas where the practical appli­cation of the precepts of our faith leads us. The Knights of Columbus also offers you social outlets, insurance protection, wholesome athletic and recreational programs, community service, involvement with youth and the feeling of belonging new friendships can provide. 
As the largest organization of Catholic men in the world, the Knights of Columbus play a leading role of service to our Church, our country, and our families. The Knights of Columbus not only has the strength of members but the desire to do an effective job. 
However, the larger and stronger our order becomes, the bigger job it can do. We need new men with new ideas and an enthusiasm for the work we have ahead of usBecause we have reason to believe that you are the kind of man we need, we hope you will join us. 
At the present time we are conducting a membership drive. We are planning an Open House Program on Thursday, January 26, at the Knights of Columbus Hall, starting at 7:00pm. We are sure that you will find the program interesting and informative and hope that you will be able to join us at that time. 
This invitation is also extended to women interested in joining the Ladies of Columbus. Sincerely, 
-1 I •I " 

Joseph I. Anthony Grand Knight 

...............J............................. ·rn~ti""'""':"'re"1""1..---~.......... ........ ...........,~:~~; :«St~dent~Hqalth~.C~1er_iQ,~p-g.iiS9r

'IR~ ;;r~·-a~·~-.~~Js~,i;.~~:
·o----;h........,..o........ 
~ WritlngContest 
Open to all Grad and Undergrad students 
Poetry and prose accepted with no Length requirements Submit one copy with name and address to: 309 O'Shag by Feb. 10, 1984 Winners will be notified by Feb. 17 For more information call: Patrick McManus 283-1754 Sponsored by sophomo.rp Literary Festival 

r-------~--------~--------------------· 
BRING IN THIS COUPON AND SAVE 





1 Frames 
6Je
Choose from the entire selection of frames including designer lines such as Gloria Vanderbilt and Christian Dior. Then take 50% off the regular price. Offer good with this coupon and studenVfaculty identification when ordering a complete pair of prescription glasses. No other discounts apply. 
South Bend: Scottsdale Mall 291-2222 IZ5:'5l Elkhart: Concord Mall 875-7472 

ffiJ 
Open All Day Saturday and Sunday Mall Hours ~ PROfESSIONAl EYE EXAM AVAILABLE BY H$oC. OPTOMETRIST WITH OFFICE ON PREMISES ~ 
L--------------------------------------~ 

. selPhelp sessions starting,Jan. 30 
By RICH INGRASSIA 
News Staff 
How to cope with the tensions and aggravations of college life will be the topic of self-help sessions being made available to members of the Notre Dame community by the Free University program. 
Sponsored by the Student Health Center, the sessions will begin Jan. 30 and will be led by Luis Valdez, a counseling psychology graduate of Texas Tech University. 
The program will include a num­ber of self-help and Out Reach groups and will be open to students, staff, and faculty of the Notre Dame community. 
The Out Reach groups will address the problems confronted in everyday dealings with people and events. "The groups really have no­thing to do with illness," said Valdez, "nothing to do with serious psycho­lbgical problems, only with general coping with day-to-day issues. The program is wholly devoted to the 'normal' student." 
The sessions offered this semester 
:!re in three concentrations. The 
***************** 
* *
:Buy· ~ 
* * 
** Observer ** 
~ I ~ : classifieds~ 

*
*
*
*
*
*
*
******************* 
first, beginningjan. 30, will focus on stress management. On Jan. 31, a group on building self-esteem will start and finally on March 26, there will be an assertiveness training course. Each group will meet for two hours, once a week for 4-6 weeks, at the Student Health Center. Valdez was the coordinator of a 
similar program at the University of 
Texas at Austin, which experienced 
considerable success the two years 
he worked there. In fact, such Out 
Reach groups are offered at most 
American Universities. 
As in the past, the program at 
Notre Dame will be run by a profes­
sional staff of doctorate level psy­
chology professors as well as Notre 
Dame psychology graduate students 
presently at work on their Ph.D.'s. 
Valdez emphasizes the program is for "anybody and everybody." Last semester there was a slight publicity problem, which resulted, Valdez ex­plained, "in small, yet very workable groups. We would like to see a big­ger turnout this semester." 
He said he would like students, 
faculty and staffto understand exact­
ly what the groups do, and what kind of unique interaction is possible be­tween intelligent, concerned people focusing on building and fortifying their characters. 

"The groups are quite structured, yet experiential and very education­al, based entirely on the exchange of ideas and experiences of the par­ticipants," said Valdez. "The first week ofeach session will be devoted to clarifying some definitions of es­teem, assertiveness or stress and thei: associated terms and concepts, and for everyone to get to know each other.·· 
For the remaining weeks, Valdez said the groups will concentrate on "what factors in your own day-to­day ordeals contribute to your inter­pretation of the personal pratfalls you may have. Finally. the groups will discuss what you say inwardly 
to yourselfas a guide to your feelings and behavior." 
Sign ups for the Out Reach groups will be conducted in two ways: first, through the Free University registra­tion from January 23-27 at the LaFortune Ballroom, or by going directly to the Student Health Cen­ter and contacting Luis Valdez. 
continuedfrompage I • • .Far Side 
Chronicle Feature. He graduated fluenced his drawings. from Washington State Univt:rsity in Schmid invited Larson to speak af­communicationsand lives in Seattle. ter a Notre Dame student, whose 
Larson began his strip after aunt works for Larson's publisher, becoming bored and frustrated with suggested the cartoonist. Schmid 
his job in a music store, Schmid said. declined last night to say how much He took two days off from work, the Student Union is paying Larson, drew six cartoons and sold them to a explaining the Student Union never 
Seattle magazine for 590. Larson has releases a speaker's honorarium. also worked for the Humane Society, Larson's presentation is free and an experience that obviously has in-open to the public. 



CORKTOWNE 
...

LI uoas~·-mc. 
OUTH BEND 1ve. 
State Road 23, ~ mile west of Martin's Supermarket 
Old Milwaukee or
~J!phs Kegs 27.99 

Schlitz or Old Milwaukee 
Old Style 

Schlitz Light 6.99 Light 5.69 hla~ht 5.99 Strohs 
6.99 ~a~~ks Light 4.44
24cans 
Fleischmanns 
Ron Rico
Early

Yspdka 7.99 Rum 
4.99
750ml


!Hnes 4.99
Canadian Amaretto

Piccola (Kahlua 
Mist 

4.99 E Dolce 
750ml 

4.99
750ml

~~bstitute) 5.49
Tanqueray Crown Gin 8.99 §~a grams 7 10.99 Royal 10.99
750ml750ml 

M &RAsti Zonin b~~bfraumilch 2.99
7.99
750ml 

Lambrusco 
750ml

Gallo Table 2.19 
Paul Masson

Wines Boones 
1.5l 2.99 Farm 
YY.!.ne 20°10 off 
750ml 

Win a trip to Fort Lauderdale, Florida during Spring Break
PRICES EFFECTIVE 

TO 1/31/84 Details available in store _
277 6805 

--------------------___j 

Welcome Back Notre Dame& St. Mary's! 
For over 20 years Domino's Pizza has been delivering pizza to campusesall across the country. · 
How To Order A Pizza ... 
··---­
1) Know what you want before ordering (size of pizza. number, what you want on it, any Coke). 
2) Know your address, and phone number when calling. 
3) If you live in a dormitory our phone person will tell you where to wait for your delivery. 
4) When placing the order, let us know if you have large denomination bills. 
5) Remain by your phone after ordering. We may call back to confirm the order. 
6) Price that is quoted on the phone includes sales tax, but does not include the subtraction of any coupon values ... the driver will subtract it when the delivery is made. 
7) Have any coupons and money with you when the driver arrives. 
Limited delivery area. 
C'J 1983 Dommo·s Pizza. Inc 
Our Superb Cheese Pizza 12" cheese $4.79 ~~ 16" cheese $6.89 ~ 

Domino's Deluxe 5 items for the price of 4 Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers, and Sausage 12" Deluxe $ 8.35 16" Deluxe $12.05 
Additional Items Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Black Olives, Green Olives, Onions, Green Peppers, Ground Beef, Sausage, Ham, Double Cheese, Anchovies, Hot Pepper Rings, Extra Thick Crust and Sauerkraut 12" pizza $ .89 per item 16" pizza $1.29 per item 
Coke/16 oz. bottles 
Prices do not include applicable sales tax. 

Call us. 277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
Our drivers carry less than $10.00. 



Dominds Pizza Delivers:M 
Ir-------------------------------~
I 
I I 
1 Qnly 1
Get a 16"1-item pizza I for only $5.99. I One coupon per pizza I 
• • Expires in 2 weeks. 
$5 99 1 
Fast, Free Delivery"' 1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center Phone: 277·2151 
38793/2650

II. 
L-------------------··•,••••,•••••··~ 
If your pizza does not 30 arrive within 30 minutes, present this coupon to theminutes driver for a free pizza One coupon per pizza 
or free! 
Fast, Free Delivery"' 1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center Phone: 277·2151 
38793/2650

II. 
I 


Thursday,)anuary 26, 1984-page 7 


So what if Mondale can't be stopped 
The aficionados of politics these days are putting the wrong question to the sooth­sayers. They keep asking, "Can Mondale be stopped?" The real question that cuts to the bone is "Can Reagan be beaten?" If he can't, then much of the puffing and panting of 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 

Mondale and Glenn and the rest will turn out to be an academic exercise in the political rites ofpassage. 
The answer, of course, is that Reagan isn't invulnerable. He has hurt many and has in­flicted wounds on himself. Conceivably he can be stopped. But it would take a viable can­didate who isn't there, and a philosophy of government that the Democrats haven't yet develope' , and a popular sense ofconfidence that none 
fthe party leaders seems to inspire. 

If we assume that Mondale will be the nominee it follows that the Democratic game plan will be the economics of the AFL-CIO, the educational programs of the National Education Assn., the "social issues" of the NOW (National Organization ofWomen), the foreign policy of the Democratic liberals in and out ofCongress, and the defense policy of the anti-defense and nuclear freeze groups. 
Ifthe speeches based on this strategy were delivered by an impassioned Ted Kennedy, whose exit from the race cleared the way for Mondale as front-runner, the Democrats would stand a chance of winning. Delivered by Mondale they will generate widespread en­nui. 
Ifwe talk not of particular programs but of broad strategies, then the election strategy of the Democrats -whoever runs -has narrowed down considerably. The economic focus used to be on the jobless, but the Reagan recovery has undercut it. What the Democrats have left is the swollen Reagan budget -and they don't know what to do about it. 
The vanishing of the big economic issues 
has brought a shift to an attack on Reagan's 
foreign policies. Given the success ofGrenada 
and the stubborn refusal ofNATO to give in on 
the Pershing missiles, what remains for the 
Democrats is Beirut as a symbol of a possibly 
treacherous quagmire. 
The third element in the Democratic strategy will be a constant barrage against Ronald Reagan himself, as "mean" in his lack of concern for the poor while he hobnobs with the rich, and as "trigger happy" in a nuclear age. 
The Republican game plan will also be a triple strategy, but the difference is that the Republicans will point to visible accomplish­ments -the Reagan recovery in the face ofall the Democratic attacks, and the new note of resoluteness both in foreign and defense policy. 
The third axis of the strategy will be the popular appeal of Reagan himself. Even politi­cal scientists who are lifelong Democrats at­test, however reluctantly, to the way Reagan has come through surprisingly as a leader­figure who has reawakened American con­fidence and resolve. 
No one -not even the various entities and nonentities who have endorsed him -. will say that about Walter Mondale. 
The fault rests only in part with Mondale and the others. It rests with the internal intel­lectual climate within the Democratic Party itself, which has become a number ofpressure group fiefdoms associated only loosely with the party, operating on the principle of give and take, not in money but entitlements. 
This has squeezed both passion and prin­ciple out of the party and cut it off from the people themselves who gave it strength from FOR through LyndonJohnson. 
Thus barring some unforeseen folly or foreign policy disaster my guess right now is that Reagan will win the second term. Whether he will throw it away later, as Republican presidents have generally done, is another question. 
Los Angeles Times S_vndicate 

Kerr assassination not just another attack 
Editor's note: This is the first of a two-part series on the assassination ofMalcolm Kerr, president of the American University in Beirut. 
When Malcolm Kerr fell to an assassin's bul­let last Wednesday morning, the only indica-
Patrick Gaffney 
Guest column 

tion of a mishap was the sound of books that dropped from his hands to the floor. The gun­man had equipped himself with a silencer to muffle the explosive crack of his 7.65mm pis­t~l, ~ut Plid no ~eed to what his unsuspecting vtcttm w:ls carrymg. 
Thus tfe first portent of this tragedy for 
those on he third floor of the Administration Building t the American University in Beirut was not he peal of gunfire, to which they were grimly accustomed, but what seems less alarming, the clatter offalling books. 
Even amid the absurdity ofthis misdirected violent act, a shed of meaning survives. For it well befits this special man that at his death, it was not a shot, but this heavier noise that should be heard around the world. 
Inevitably, the publicity accompanying this event has tended to lump it with other recent disasters visited upon the official American presence in Lebanon. But to draw such a con­clusion is too easy and regrettable a misper­ception. 
In fact, this lates\ act of terror is 
extraordinary. It stands quite apart from the 
carnage inflicted upon diplomatic and 
military targets. _ _ 

To ignore this~ential difference is to grant, although unwittingly, a high degree of respect and even rationality to those who carried out this senseless and brutal slaughter. To call loud attention to this difference, on the other hand, is the humblest debt ofhonor due 
to the memory of this man and what he represented. The explanation for this crime as stated by the anonymous caller who claimed to speak 
for the killers was that Kerr "was a victim of the American military presence in Lebanon." 
But this claim so sorely distorts the whole character of the person involved that to assert it only discredits their own cause and it exposes them to plain view as merely desperate and fanatical men. 
From all the bloodshed brought on by this shadowy group known as Islamic Jihad, there is certainly no one who can doubt their in­tense zeal. 
But if the shortsightedness displayed by their earlier attacks has provoked such retalia­tion, it only proves their lack of political responsibility. This cold-blooded killing of Malcolm Kerr now destroys any credibility for their alleged religious idealism. 
Over the recent months, the sobering reservations that many expressed about the advantages of dispatching American and Allied troops to Beirut in the first place has grown in scale and in measure ofconviction. 
There is steady and increasing pressure on 
Washington from practically every quarter to 
arrange quickly for damage control rather 
than prolong the costly illusion of a 
reconstituted Lebanese state in the near 
future. Evidence in Congress, the State 
Department and the Department of Defense 
abounds. 

It is in this same light that the great masses 
of Americans will almost automatically inter­
pret whatever the daily press informs them is 
occurring over there. 

These murderers, for all their dangerous confusions are nonetheless fully aware of this obscure perception on the part of the American public. Their attack on Kerr was deliberately calculated as an act of propagandaand intimidation. It has probably in some narrow sense succeeded. 
FatherPatrick D. Gaffney is a professor in the DepartmentofAnthropology atNotre Dame. 

A ny action that  a person par­ If people want to smoke that's their  I don't think  it's a particularly  It depends on what they're smoking. It really turns me on when people  
ticipates in that is offensive to other  own business, but when they blow  good habit, but I think it should be  Ifit's cigarettes I'm highly offended. blow second-hand smoke in my face  
people is a violation of their rights.  smoke in your face it tends to be ob­ left up to the people. Ifthey want to  Ifit's something elsSi.L, I'm offended if and eyes.  
noxious.  smoke in public that's fine with me.  they don't pass it t~e.  
Meegan Reilly  Amy Baker  Jamie Manson  Tim Reilly  RichYohon  
Liberal Studies  Engineering  Finance  Finance  Accounting  
Classof'86  Classof'87  Classof'86  Classof'85  Classof'85  
Non-smoker  Non-smoker  Non-smoker  Non-smoker  Non-smoker  


EditorialBoard DepartmentManagers 
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame,IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor......._...............Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l ~ni­Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Controller ...............................................Alex Szilvas versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager .........................Jeanie Poole the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­News Editor....................................Mark Worscheh Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto 
curately and as objectively as possible. l 'nsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa Saint Mary's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski ~:vstems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher 
Founded November 3, 1966. and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton 
Photo Editor.......................................... Scott Bower 
':>~J;q-t.HVl ,c)5:. ·p~;:tiiJ~t.··:~>briildT 


~portS 8riels 
. ' ~ . 
The Notre DaJile Rugby Club will hold an 
organizational meeting for the spring semester tomorrow at 8:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. New players are encouraged to artend. No experience is necessary. Contact Geoff Branigan ( 3665) for more information. The guest speaker will he Matt Zapf. -The Observer 
Saint Mary'S is host to the Roundball Classic Basket­hall Tournament, beginning tomorrow at 6 p.m. at the Angela Ath­letic Facility when the Belles take on Moraine Valley Junior College. That game will be followed at approximately 8 p.m. with Purdue­Calumet vs. Michigan-Dearborn. The consolation game will be played Saturday at I 0 a.m. followed by the championship game at noon. -The Obsen,er 

l9V192d0 Tiiiirsday;Januaty 26, 1984 .:page 8 
~-_;--::;-­
. ./
. ~~ 


i'The NDJ.f.JP.?l~~ <;~b will have itS'first practice ofthe spring semeste"r tonight in the fencing gym o(the ACC at 7 p.m. New members are encouraged to attt·nd. -The Observer 
Wotnen's fastpitch softball will begin practict 
today at 7:30p.m. at the ACC Fieldhouse by Gate 3. If there are any questions, call Chris Callahan at 3783 or Mara Georges at 6868. 
The Observer 
The Aspen ski trip over spring break, sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Union, is having an informational meeting at 6:30p.m. today, Thursday,Jan. 26, in the LaFortune Little Theater. -The Observer 
See BRIEFS page 9 
co~tinuedfrom page 12'Vr 
•••SwiiD 
freestyle races while Walker won 
the 200-yard butterfly event. "They 
took first places in our four toughest 
events on Saturday," said Tikka. 
This weekend, the team travels to Johns Hopkins and Georgetown Uni­versities. The Irish have never com­peted against either of these teams and Stark is hesitant to predict their results. "I think we'll do well," said Tikka, "but we don't know what to expect." 


Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Expenenced Typtst Mrs. Bedford Hours 8AMto5PM Monthru Fn 288-2107 
CROSS COUNTRY SKI RENTALS THURSDAY THAU SUNDAY, CALL NVA AT 239·6100 
MCAT USED KAPLAN BOOKS 1071 
THE KEENAN REVUE IS COMING II II will takepi11C41 In O'Laughlln Auditorium at St. Mary'• on Feb. 1, 3, and 4. Stay tuned tor detalll on llcket dlatrlbutlon. 
TYPING SERVICE 277-6045 WILL PIC I\ UP & DELIVER 
SA MAR IT A'S PRIMARY DAY SCHOOL Tutonng begms thts week Meet at Mam Circle at 1:15 Mon -Frt Call John (1432) for more info 
TIM. HOW WAS YOUR DATE LAST 
NIGHT YOU DON'T KNOW? I FORGOT 
THAT YOU DON'T HAVE EYES IN THE 
BACK OF YOUR HEAD 
ROOMMATE WANTED FOR FIVE-MAN HOUSE ON CLEVELAND ROAD OFF JUNIPER 
LOST/FOUND 
Lost: One gray and whtte thtn-stnped long-sleeve shtrt acctdentally mtsplaced tn someone·s laundry by the St. Mtchael's dry cleamng serv1ce It you have rt, please return to Jim at X1t01. 
FOUND A stlver Cross Pen behtnd O'Shag before Chnstmas break. Call Karen, 3887, to tdenttfy tnrttals 
Lost! A Wtlson JET leather basketball at Stepan Center on 11t9 ilfound please call 1740 ENDAD 
LOST: PR. GLASSES.BAOWN CASE. BUS BLDG. t 119 CALL 6846 
LOST: Navy wool stadtum coat at the hockey party Sat. night Please call 284­5776 
ONE HUNDRED DOLLAR REWARD of­fered by Untied Limo: A tan. brown suitcase wtth a cord around'l! was lost on Jan 15th at Notre Dame. Please call Ste"e at United Ltmo---674-6993. 
Lost: Set of keys. If found please call283· 6873 
FOUND-SHARP CALCULATOR IN AM 202 BUSINESS ADMIN ON 1 /23 
LOST DARK BLUE NORTH FACE COAT ON JAN 18 AT SENIOR BAR PLEASE CALL 1695 
L..--F_O_R_R_E_NT__...Jj 
SEVERAL HOUSES THAT WILL AC­COMMODATE 2-7 STUDENTS AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. CALL AFTER 5, 234·9364 
ROOM· Sale with oN-street parktng, was­her & dryer. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 
Faculty home this semester, family or 2 unrelated persons max (zoned A-1). No parties. Near campus. Make oNer. 289­1687 
APARTMENT FOR RENT CLOSE TO CAMPUS, N.D. AVE. PLEASE CALl GREG M. 277-6239 
FURNISHED HOME FOR RENT 277· 3604 
Student rental: 5-6 bedroom house. fireplace. dtshwasher, & washer & dryer. Call232-4057 or 272-7767. 
CAMPUS VIEW--MALE AOOMMATE wanted. 234-0537 

L.,.____W_J\N_T_ED_-..J\ 
need SEVEN (7) DEPAUL tix! call Sheila 3484 
Riders needed to Dayton 2/09-2112 Call Dave 234-0537 
Male roommate needed-CAMPUS VIEW. Call 234-0537 
RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO AREA ANYTIME FRIDAY. 1127. SHARE GAS. CHRIS-289-2072 AFTER 6 PM. 
Two female roommates needed Im­mediately Campus View. Call 284-5342 or 277-2086. 
Need Riders to St. Louis on February 3. Call Lauren 277-4428. 
WANTED: 2 BILLY JOEL TICKETS. CALL 272-5877 AFTER 6:00PM 
.--~-F-O-R-SA_L_E_______, 
Notre Dame house for sale, 4 bedrooms, t5 mins. from campus. Assumable mortgage. Good investment for parents. Call283·6243. 
FOR SALE: Stngle bed, $50.00, snow tires size 14, $40.00 239-5639 durtng the day 
74 FORD VAN FOR SALE Customized Interior, New Auto. Trans., tires. battery. Reliable running cond. Asktng $1450. Call Bob at 283-8552 or Paul at283-8458. 
HOCKEY JERSEY-AUTHENTIC NEW YORK RANGERS TEAM ISSUE HOME JERSEY $75 TIM 22t5 
FOR SALE HP-33E CALCULATOR CALL FRED AT 1 760 
HIGH-TECH STEREO Yamaha PX2 automated linear tracktng IT Davtd Hatler amps; 115 w/ch Nakamichi Dragon tape deck Magneplanar MG2b speakers all brand new;must sell CARL 283-1034 
L..-J_T_IC_K_ET_s____. 
I NEED 2 DEPAUL TIX. CALL DAVE AT 1801. 
NEED 4 TIX(3 TOGETHER) FOR DEPAUL-CALLJIM AT 8951 
Need 2 GA Maryland Tix call Nancy 4429 or Lori 4378 (SMC) 
FOUR MARYLAND TIX NEEDED, STU­DENT OR GA. FOR VISITING LEFTY HATERS. CALL KEVIN at 8214 
Do You need basketball tickets? We've got them I Rtch uncle died and leff 6 TICK­ETS for all remaining games including MAROUETIE and DEPAUL. Call Pete 3508. NOW!!I 
Need 2-4 Maryland GA's Call Jill 284­5148 
TRADE: Two Lower Arena Marquene TIX for two MD TIX. 7531 or 2559971. 
NEED 4 MAROUETIE TIX STEVE 1760 
HELP!! Need 2 tiks to MUIND game. Call Marty at x3471 
I STILL NEED FOUR MARYLAND TICK­ETS!I! Someone please call me--Rob at 3251. 
NEEDED 2 Billy Joel studenttix call Joe at 8437 
PERSONALS 
HOHOHO 
PHOBIA OF THE DAY 
Gymnophobia: fear of nudity 
SENIORS: Volunteer Work with HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES. Community living and service in PHOENIX, COLORADO, CALIFORNIA, AND OREGON. De a dline for applications Feb.3. Call Mary Attn Roemer. 7949. REWRITE 
THE YELLOW SUBMARINE WILL DELIVER DELICIOUS SANDWICHES TO YOUR ROOM. JUST CALL 272-4453 BETWEEN 8 and 11pm MON-SAT. 
666 ATIENTION 666 KISS ARMY sin­worshipers meettng Friday. midnight. un­der the statue of mary BYOC (bring your own chalice) 
OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS • IN­FORMATION NIGHT THURSDAY JAN. 26 7 pm at the Center for Social Con­cerns. Eight weeks of service. NO Alumni Clubs award Social Concerns Scholar­ship. 
HEAD START 
TONIGHT 
7:30 
HAGGARSMC 
Whatever happened to Shaun Cassidy? 
Travel Field Opportunity. Earn Money and Gain Valuable Marketing Experience 
Be a Representattve for Spring Bteak Trip to Florida. Call Campus Marketing' at 312­858-4887 collect. 
I am 29 years old, and I've got three years leff to go on a burglary conviction (at the Indiana State Penitentiary). I'm looking lor a friend. Please write me at: A. A 
Trump" Troxail, P.O. Box 41. Michigan City, Indiana, 46360. I would be really thankful. 
To all users of The Kangaroo Konnectlon 
Milo's gening annoyed with the amount of disk space used by p-notes, and he'a getting ready to wipe a bunch out! If you haven't been on in a while. log on and clean out your mall befora Milo doeal 
Zenker Harris Box227 

ARE YOU INTERESTED IN LEARNING ABOUT THE NEWSPAPER BUSI­NESS?? The Observer is looktng lor a lew more people lor the Productton department In only two hours a week learn about newspaper layout and meet some fun people. 9-11 pm or 11pm·1am shifts available. Enthus1asm and some talent will lead to a prestigious paymg fOb. Stop by The Observer to gain further tnlo. and till out an application. ; 
Whatever happened to George Bush? 
DIGGER: Now that you're done prepartng for Davidson (HA HA), you can nnally turn your attention to Maryland. 
MAGIC MAGIC MAGIC I Come see NO's own Gary O'Brien perform some amazmg tncks Saturday, January 28 at 9pm tn the SMC Snack Bar m Haggar College Cen­nter! He could surprise you I 
BonJOUr PatriCk! 
Edgar. Welome to SMCI Hope you have a Great Weekend! Maynard 
Shannon lathe NBA Champ 
SENIORS depostt lor SKI TRIP due Mon by 7.Brtng IT TO LaFort. THUAS AND MON 6-8,FRI3-5 
YES, IT WAS ON THIS OAY 19 YEARS AGO THAT DAVID SCHEIDLER DECIDED TO GRACE US WITH HIS PRESENCE. PLEASE. WON'T YOU CALL HIM TODAY TO ENCOURAGE HIM THAT YES, HE DID MAKE THE RIGHT DECISION? TWO T-SHIATS OR A HOT TOWEL TO ALL WHO BESTOW UPON HIM A BIRTHDAY KISS!! 
TO all who satd "Glad to see you back" THANKS!II!l Marty D. 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 
THE LAW THE LAW THE LAW Rock 'n Roll at its best appearing at Cavanaugh. FriNitel 
"We are the dead." .. hve 1 984 .. tomorrow ..NAS 
Why does Mike Doming have a htckey on his forehead? 
ARCHITEXT an independent architec­tural publication, is looking for JOurnalists and layout artists. Next mtgThur 26Jan at 
7:30 pm in Am 401 Arch. or call Oavtd Doane 272-68151or info. 
EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH. AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP 
. . 

ENGINEERING FUTURE. 
How man~· corporations would be w~ng to pay you over $1000 a month during your junior dnd senior _\'ears JUSt so you'd join the company :liter _gmduation·) l·ndC'r a sp<'cial :\a\'y progrnm we're doing just that. I c's called the :\uclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program. .-\nd under it. you'll not onl~· get great pay during your junior and s~ntvr \'enrs. but aiter graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduntC'·il_·,·cl training that is not a\·ailable from any other employer. 
11 you an• a jumor or senior majoring in math, engineering or ·physic<Jl scit•nc,'s. find out mor~ today. And le' your career pay off while still in college. _ . For·more inform.-tion. call the !\aval .Management Programs Office at: 
Call Toll Free 1-800-382-9782 

Navy Representative will be on campus November 30 and December 1, 1983 



The Observer Thursday,)anuary 26, 1984-page 9 

INTERESTED IN LIVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT YEAR? COME TO THE 

LANDLORD'S OPEN HOUSE 
Thursday, January 26 1:00-4:00 Lafortune Lobby 

Meet informally with Representatives from NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS CAMPUS VIEW TURTLE CREEK 
and others. See Floorplans! Find out monthly rents! 'View Color Schemes! No obligation! 
1 
I, 

Take a byte 
out of the cost 
of buying 


a computer. 
In a few days you'll be able to buy Apple computers right here on campus at big discounts. The new General Microcomputer store will provide a great opportunity to take advantage of state-of-the-art technology at special prices. 
The Notre Dame Credit Union is offering special rates. too, in conjunction with this exciting new concept. Members may take out a loan to purchase a computer at a low 14% APR. It's just one of the advantages of belonging to this up-to-date financial cooperative. If you're not yet a mer:nber, stop in today and find out how easy it is to join. 
14°/o COMPUTER LOAN 
Finance under $2000 for up to 2 years. Finance over $2000 for up to 3 years. 

r4. NOTRE DAME ~CREDIT UNION 
Main Office , sm.. Torrington Branch 19033 Douglas Road 8...-NCUA_-:-:_·. 3509 W. Sample Street 
219/239-6611 L-----__j 219/289-2827 
.. Briefs
continuedfrom page 8 

Stretchercise classes will be given by the NVA on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:30 to 6:15 in the Auxiliary Gym of the ACC. The classes start today and will emphasize stretching and light exercise. The classes are designed for faculry and staffwho have not been active recently. Ifyou have any questions, call239-6690. ­The Observer 
TheNDMartialArts Institutewill have its first 
season of the spring semester tomorrow night at 7 p.m. at the 
Rockne Memorial in room 219. Limited new membership will be 
offered on a first-come, first-serve basis. If you have any questions. 
call 1 384 or 3 3 3 7. -The Observer 

Advanced Lifesavingwill be offered Saturday after­noons from 12-3 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial Pool. Classes will begin Saturday, January 28, and will run for seven weeks. For more information, call Sharon Athey at 277-8480. -The Observer 
See BRIEFS, page 10 

PIZZA 

16" LARGE....•... $6.19 
Extra Toppings S1.00 ea. Includes Free Delivery to ND &SMC 

The Department of Theology Announces THEO 241 -Women in Theology This is a Lecture Series: 
7:30 pm Center for Soc. Concerns Jan. 26, Feb. 14, March 12, Aprii11,May9 
Thdse who wish to follow the series for credit will be responsible for brief. readings for each and a short paper at the end. Variable credit 
First Lecture "CLOISTER, SALON AND CROSSROADS: THE ROLE OF WOMEN IN JANSEN ISM" 
F. Ellen Weaver Assistant Chairwoman, Dept. of Theology 
Thursday, January 26 7:30PM Center For Social Concerns 
Buy any Rossignol RC 70, Elan 904 Kniessel FM, 344RA,OR I Olin 930, SR 15 
ld
and for 1¢you 
will receive a 
PAIR of .-­
Salomon 326 :-­
bindings. · 
(Quantities 
and Sizes limit 


The Observer Thursday,January 26, 1984-page 10 
• . ·.Briefs 
continued/rom page 9 
An agility and quickness programwill be: 
startin~ Monday, January .:\0. The: workout will include quickness and agility drills along with strc:tching c:xc:rcisc:s. Sc:ssions will be: hdd on Mondays and Thursdays from 4 to 6 p.m. If you plan on participating, pkase attend the first meeting on Monday in the ACC Pit. -The Obsen•er 
ATrackcompetitionis ht:ing sponsored hy the NVA 
office:. Events include 60-yard low hurdles, a mile run, a four-lap rday, 60-yard dash, 440-yard, and 880-yard runs, an eight-lap relay, high jump. and broad jump. Points will he: awarded for first and sc:cond place halls as ranked hy points compiled by individuals. To sign up, call 239-6100 or stop by the NVA office in the ACC.-The Obsen,er 
NVA offers ski package 
ets. Reduced prices are available ifA downhill ski package: is hdng of­
no lessons or ski equipment are
fered hy the Notre Dame Non­necessary.
Varsity Athletics Office. The package 
Students may huy packages for one or more of the remaining dates. 
will run for the nc:xt three Tuesday 
nights. ·l'he package includes lessons, ski 
For more information, call the NV A rental, transportation, and lift tick-
Office at 239-6690. 


ASSOCIATE WITH US 
Consider tlfl Alterna.i"iV'co:.



SENIORS 


THE HOLY C.ROSS ASSOCIATES 
n.~ HC~ is a 1 ~~qr post,r.c:l&lllte ~~~n~"'c strc.!o~•ns: • 
0 

ScrY1i:e t. oft.ers • S,·,..pk j,·,in~ 
oConu11-.n..l Ii fut!ll~ • Christ~ u,a.r...t."oll. 
Pl.uMfnts 4V'cilc~k ia :· C.l.roado Spri,.~s,C.... j l'h.cltilC1 A1. j 1-lc,.,..nl,C._; Portlua, Or. 
DEADLINf FOR APPliCANTS=FEBRUAR.Y 3,/,iY 
for ~"for,...t'Ott., contqct.M.vJ A-. ll.KMU ..t -ffte Ccllfa.-for Soc.aal ~nc:erns (S'l'fl) 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
Yesterday's Results Notre Dame 59, Davidson 56, OT Davidson (56) 
M FG·A  FT-A  R  F  P  
W1lson  41  4-10  0-1  5  4  8  
Born  39  2-3  3-4  11  2  7  
McConkey  44 10-1 5  0-0  6  4  20  
Tanner  7  1-5  0-0  1  4  2  
He1neman  36  3-8  3-4  3  4  9  
Dawson  5  0-1  1-2  0  1  1  
Bego  32  2-6  2-2  5  4  6  
Franz  9  1-2  1-1  1  1  3  
Wol!e  11  0-0  0-0  2  2  0  
Niebuhr  0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
225 22-48  9-13  33  25  53  
FG  Pet.  458.  FT  Pet.  -.692.  Team  

rebounds -1. Turnovers -21. Assists -12 
(He1neman 6). Technicals-None. Notre Dame (59) 
M  FG-A  FT·A  R  
Dolan  41  2-5  2-2  5  
Barlow  27  1-6  2-2  2  
Kempton  45  4-8  6-11  9  
Howard  36  1-5  0-2  2  
Sluby  34  8-18  6-9  4  
Hicks  15  1-3  0-0  2  
Royal  3  0-0  0-0  0  
Pnce  24  2-3  5-6  6  

225 19-48 21-32 30 17 59 
FG Pet. .396. FT Pet. -.656. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -11. Assists -12 (Pnce 4). Technicals-None. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 31, Davidson 24. Regulation-Notre Dame 50. Davidson 50. Of­ficials -William Brill (Southern). Richard Weiler (Big Ten). Ted Hillary (B1g Ten). A ­10.687. 
., 


--gQowe~rg fpn aQQ occagiotlg" 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway .232-3354~ 

VAN LINES Runs this weeJiend·~ Fri.~ Sat. -movies, shopping, dining~r Urii~~sity Park Mall and Town & Country. 50¢ ltound trip. Pay as you board atND Circle, Grotto, SMC Holy Cross Circle Hourly departures begin at 5:00 on friday and 4:00on Sat. 

AL-ANON Do you have a friend or family member who has a drinking problem? Maybe our AI-Anon group is for YOU! Who: For Notre Dame I Saint Mary's 
College students When: every Thursday at 4:00pm beginning January 26. Where: Coundeling & Psychological Services Center, 


N.D. Student Health Center 
Contact: Peggy Cronin or Monica McNamara at C&PSC, 239-7336 or 239-5085 
Present this coupao"'.:A,, 
......3110/84 -------~~-~-~~------.. .. ~ I
I ­

I I I
I Enjoy Barclay's 2nd Annual I
I 
I
I 




I PRIME RIB I 
I I 


I FEAST
I 

For a limited time you can enjoy our stan­dard cut of succulent prime rib, a bottom­less tureen of soup, corn bread and your choice of baked potato, 11ome fries or rice mason. 
With this coupon you pay only $5.951 Unbeatable!! 1 
I Offer good dinner 1 hours only, limit of 2 dinners per coo· I pon. May not be used with other I coupons or adver-1 tised specials. 
Does not include 1 tax or tip. OUR REGULAR MEIIU I 
IS ALSO AYAILAIIL I 
I 

Clip this coupon 1 
offer expires311 0/84 : I 
I 52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend Ph. 272-5478 I 
• I 1 I. I 1 ............. ..~ ...'\.'•~'".~ ...~"'"": ,·._~,,~'''"~', ·~ "••• ~', t~ <. \ ""• \•. •. ·-t. f _... f 46 f .• #,..t-.J / ,.J.;
·-----~---------------· 
F 2 3 2 3 3 2 0 2 
P 6 4 14 2 22 2 0 9 
I 

• •'f••"1 ~ •••••••• •'•"*·~·I 0 



T0 day__________________
...,.T_h_u_r_sd_a_.y_,_Ja_n_u_a_r_y_2_6_,_1_9_8_4_-_P_a_g_e_l_l 


-------------------------------------------------~ 
SPRING BREAK'84 


Pitcher and
Informational meetings for all interested in Student Union trips 


Pizza Special 
Videos on the
Thursday, Jan. 26 

Friday Night
6 pm Ft. Lauderdale will be Big Screen T.V.~~ 
6:30 Aspen 

Goebel Special LaFortune Little Theatre like Wednesday ~ 
Bloom Connty 
Mellish 
Guindon Richard Guindon 

Harvey Ferguson prefers to buy ly from telephone solicitors. Right now he's In need of a vacuum cleaner. 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Frog's milieu 5 Fr.lmpres­slonlst  27 Inside-Job woritmen 34 Greek deity 37 Everything: Ger.  56 -boy! 56 Corrode 59 Fabulist 60 John Hous• man's"The  5 Smallltem 6 Arena sign 7 Berte's stock-In· trade  
10 Central or Hyde 14-tea  38 Bywayof 39 Calhoun of film  II-63 Wayln 64 Varnish  8 Queen beater 9 Denuded  
15 Precise 16 Sort of  40 Step 41 Menial  base 65 Eur. river  10 --mache 11 Woody's son  
code  42 Clalreor  66 Knob  12 Paper pack  
17 Empty threat 19 Stagepr• sentatlon 20 High note  Balin 43 USpoet, Louise 44 Artery 45 First  67 Glacial pinnacle 68 "Here Is Your War" author  13 Kendall and Francis 18 Anthony or Caesar 23 Performs  
21 Stable fare  anniversary  DOWN  25 Absent  
22 Dialects 24 Seasoned sausage 26 "The Black  48 Auto 49 Portuguese Island group  1 Water carriers 2 Fla. town 3 Asian land  28 Gigantic 29 Beg 30 "­flowing with milk  
Cat" author ·  53 Tex. town  4 He def6ated  and..."  
AES  31 In any case  

-rnt: AMEJ.ICAN 
INVPbfON FORe£! WHO, OPf.AATION (lfi\R? '"ANTARCfl6 FURY? 
VUN'T 'IOU KtiOII ?



Dave& Dave 
The Far Side Gary Larson 
-,--«:.. 

32 Uproar 
46 Two-handed
33 City In 
card game
Yemen 
47 RelaHng to
34 Sojourn 
medicine
35 Hebrides 
50 Mobilize
Island 
51 Device
38 Corner 
for5A
40 Tugboat 
52 Cubic meter 
gear 
53 Verve
41 Fictional 
54 lt. resort 
swamp 
55 Recompensed
dweller 
56 Copycat
43 Bikini 
57 Melodic 
tops 
subject
44 Certain 
61 Beverage
WWII 
62 Short trip 
soldier 
Wednesday's Solution 


Campus 

•12:15 
p.m.-Lecture, "Family Influences on the Timing of Early Life Transitions," br. Dennis Hogan, Library Lounge 

•3 
p.m. -Seminar, "The Kirby Stanat Job Hun· ter's Seminar," 303 Cushing Hall, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Also at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium, Free 

•4 
p.m. -Presentation, "Insights and Oversights in the Sociological Study of Religion," Prof Kevin Christiano, Library Lounge 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Economic Bargaining in Basic Steel, 1946-1983," Prof. Charles Craypo, 124 Hayes Healy, 

•7 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "Sophie's Choice," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $1 

•7 
p.m. -Dance Class, Jane Fonda Workout, Spring Semester Session, Holy Cross Hall Party Room, ND, Sponsored by Abiogenesis Dance Col· lective, Ill 0 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Challenge of Peace: Our Responsibilities for the Future," Rev. Richard 

V. 
Warner, Carroll Hall 


•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Cloister, Salon and Cros· sroads: The Role of Women inJansenism," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by ND W.,men in Theology 

•8 
p.m. -Recital, Prof. Jeffrey Jacob, Piano, Little Theatre 



TV Tonight 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. lOp.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
-·· 

16 Gimme A Break 22 Magnum, PI 28 Automan 34 All Creatures Great and Small 16 Family Ties 16 Cheers 22 Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer 28 Ma5querade 34 Mystery 16 Buffalo Bill 
16 Hill Street Blues 28 20/20 34 Sneak Previews 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 16 Tonight Show 22 TrapperJohn/CBS Late Movie 28 Thicke ofthe Night 
L-------------------------------------------------~ 



Sports 

Thursday,January 26, 1984-page 12 
Irish once again paced by Sluby in 59-56 OT win over Davidson 
By CHUCK FREEBY 
.\jmrts Writer 
Throughout 13 years ofcoaching, Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps' hair has become grayer and grayer. Last night's game against Davidson hdped spt><:d up the process. 
Bdtind 22 points hy senior cap­tain Tom Sluhy, tht· Irish struggkd to a ';')-56 overtime victory over the upset-minded Wildcats hdort· a nowd of I0,61-l...., at the Athletic and (:onvocation Center last night. For the Irish, it was their I Oth win in the last 12 games and raised their overall n.:cord to I 2-';. Meanwhile, coach Bohhy Hussey's young and scrappy Davidson duh falls to 6-I I on tht: yt·ar. 
After playing every other night for the last WtTk, Phdps realized his duh was showing signs of fatigue. "I think it was obvious we were a little tired tonight," noted tht: Irish men­tor. ··wt·'vt· played three gamt:s in five days, hut we have to do that he­t·aust· you play t:vt·ry other day in post-season action." 
Phdps may ht• looking ahead to tournament play, hut he knows the h ish will have to turn in ht:tter pt:r­formam:es down the stretch than they did last night. Notrt: Dame shot a mist·rahle 40 percent from tht: floor on the evt:ning, including a dis­mal 9-for-27 first-half performance. Poor foul shooting continued to plague the Irish as wdl, as they only connected on 66 perct:nt of their ef­forts from the charity stripe. 
Nevt·rthekss, on this t:vening tht: Irish wt·re able to get hy, thanks to strong dforts hy the flu-stricken Sluhy and Tim Kempton. Sluby onct: again came through time after timt: with the game on the line, scoring seven ofNotrt: Damt:'s nine points in ovt:rtime. Meanwhile, Kempton continued his resurgence during the second half of the seao;on, nt:tting 14 points and collecting I I rebounds 
while playing the entire game. 
Tht· visiting Wildcats did their best to give the game away in the first half, committing IS turnovers in the first twenty minutes. Unfor­tun:ttdy, the Irish were unabk to convert and needed six straight points from Sluhy to break away to a 2';-I H lead with four minutes left in the half. Davidson managed to close the gap to thrt:e when tht: Wildcats' leading scorer. Kenny Wilson, scort·d his first points ofthe night on a jumpt-r with 2:05 left in tht: half, 
hut a Kempton tip-in along with an imprt:ssive slam dunk hy the Irish centt:r widened tht· margin to 31-24 hy halftime. 
"We forced 15 turnovers in the first half, which should have meant a 16-to-1 H point lead, not a seven­point lead at half," said Phelps. "If you have that kind of lead, it's a dif­ferent kind ofgame." 
However, the Irish couldn't handle the prosperity of the lead tht:y had. Davidson chipped away at the lt:ad in the second half, trailing hy only one at 38-:P when center Jim McConkey threw home two of his 20 points with a jumper from the ldt baseline. The Wildcats finally <:aught the Irish, when Chris 
Heineman, who guided Con­nt:rsville High School to the Indiana state prep championship lao;t winter, converted a three-point play to tic the score at 44. 
After trading baskets for the next five minutes, Davidson's senior for­ward Kenny Wilson gave the Wildcats their first lead since early in tht· first half hy tipping in his own miss with exactly four minutes left to make the score 50-48. Notre Dame knotted the score at 50 when reserve guard Joseph Price sank a pair offree throws at the 3: I 7 mark. 
Following a Davidson miss, Phelps pulled his offense out to halfcourt in an attempt to pull the Wildcats out of their zone. "It was my decision to play for the last shot at the end of regulation," said Phelps. "I thought Uoe) Howard had the shot." However, "Small Wonder," who earned his first start due to an injury toJoJo Buchanan, had his jumper fall short, and Davidson called timeout with five seconds remammg. Heineman let a jumper fly from 25 feet with three second!i left and missed the mark to send the game into overtime. 
It was time for Sluby to take over, as he connected on two jumpers to give the Irish a 54-SO lead. Following a Wilson rebound goal, the Irish sank pressure free throws, taking ad­vantage ofthree Davidson turnovers in the final two minutes. Jim Dolan connected on both ends of a one­and-one to give Notre Dame a five­point lead at 57-52 with 16 seconds left, hut McConkey answered with a jumper from the top of the key with 12 seconds remaining. Sluby iced the game when he wa'i fouled on his way to the hoop, and then converted both free throws. Wilson's dunk at 

The omcrver/Thorn Bradky 

the buzzer only served to close the final margin. 
"We played poorly, but we won and that's the important thing," commented Phelps. "I was disap­pointed in our offensive and defensive rebounding, (but) that's what happens when a team is tired." 
On the other hand, Davidson coach Bobby Hussey had plenty of praise for his young team. "Our guys played awfully hard," said Hussey af­terwards. "We made a lot of mistakes, hut that's what happens when you have a young team. I looked out there when there were three minutes left and saw we had two sophomores and three fresh­men on the court and thought we must not he doing too badly." 
Next for the Irish is a date with fifth-ranked Maryland Saturday after­noon in the ACC, and Phelps knows his team will have to be at their best. "Saturday will he a typical Notre Dame moment," said Phelps. "There's no pressure on us; we'll go out there and have fun. Maryland is a Final Four team and I say that be­cause they have the hest shooting and the best rebounding team in the country." 
With that being the case, Digger might want to invest in some Grecian Formula stock before Satur­day. If the Maryland game is any­thing like last night's contest, the veteran Irish coach will have a white coiffure by the end ofthe weekend. 

Career of ups and downs 

Hockey team has leader in Bowie 
ByJOHN MENNELL program was also a disappointment. Sports Writer "I considered transferring. I had a chance to go to Michigan State, but 
Irish co-captainjoe Bowie has had they couldn't guarantee anything," his ups and downs with the Notre he says. "I decided that coming to Dame hockey program. Notre Dame was more impprtant 
In his four years with the Irish than going to another team for a icers he has played in three different year. I didn't want to lose any of the leagues -the Western Collegiate friendships I'd made since I'd been Hockey Association and the Central here." Collegiate Hockey Association at the Bowie has led the team in their varsity level and the Central States objectives for this season. "We Hockey League at the club level. wanted to go undefeated and we 
Bowie considers some of the wanted to go back to varsity," he events of his sophomore year to be says. The team has yet to lose a game the high points in his career. "It was and will return to varsity status next great to make it to the CCHA finals. year. Another high was winning the Great Continuing the winning streak Lakes Invitational Tournament in and winning the CSHL champion­Detroit." Although he played the last ship are what Bowie has in mind for month of the season with broken the rest of the season. "It would be bones in his hands, he was voted the nice for Lefty Smith most improved player by his and it would just prove we should teammates. have been varsity all along," he said. 
But he's had his down points too. "We're a he::tter quality than most of 
"One low point was not getting a the teams we play. bid to the NCAA tournament after "The attitude this year has been doing so well in the CCHA," Bowie excellent. We've had a few dis­says. "The drop of the hockey crepancies but we're a very 
Freshmen add spark 
cohesive unit. Everyone is mature 
enough to take on their respon­
sibilities. " 
Bowie first started skating at the age ofthree, and didn't begin playing organized hockey until he was six. He was a center and left wing until his final year ofhigh school when he started playing defense. 
"I was recruited hy Michigan State and some Ivy League schools. My frrst visit was down here," he says. He finally decided to go to Notre Dame because of its "prestige and reputation for good sportsmanship." 
Next year Bowie plans either to go to work in his home town of Toronto or to play hockey in Europe. Coach Smith is helping him apply for a visa. "He'd give you the shirt off his back," Bowie says of Smith. 
Bowie has little to complain about of his four years at Notre Dame. 
"It's been a good experience. meeting new people and being away from home. Sometimes it's been tough to keep both academics and hockey up, but it's got to he done." 

Women split vs. weekend foes 
By MARY SIEGER 
portunity to compete while 

Sports Writer 
veterans swam in three exhibition 

It was a busy weekend for the races. "We really clobbered them." Notre Dame women's swim team as said Irish co-captain Railli Tikka. the Irish defeated Valparaiso llniver­Unfortunatly, Friday's victory sity 72-49 but later lost to Ball State over Valparaiso was short-lived as University 95-45. the Irish travelled to Ball State on 
Notre Dame acted as host to the Saturday where they lost to the small Valparaiso squad Friday eve­strongest squad they have faced all ning and capitalized on an early lead. season. 
Although the Irish never pulled ahead on Saturday, the Irish were more competitive with Ball State than in past seao;<liiS. "It was dis­appointing to lose, but we swam well and we're pleased because we were more competitive," said Tikka. 
In both meets, the Irish relied heavily on the talents of freshmen Suzanne Devine and Monica Walker. 
By the middle of the meet, the Irish "They're a scholarship school and On Saturday, Devine won first place
The Notre Dame women's swimming team fell short to Ball 

were leading, Sl-9. it makes a difference," explained in the 100, 200 and 500-yard For the balance of the meet, less Notre Dame head coach Dennis 
State, their toughest competition ofthe season, but Coach Dennis 
Stark waspleased with the team's effort, as well as its 72-49 victory 
See WOMEN, page 8

experienced swimmers had the op·· Stark.
over Valparaiso on Friday. See Mary Steger's story at right.· 










