

Trustee is 'troubled' with University policy on female admissions 
Associate Vice President for
By SARAH HAMILTON 
Residence Life john Goldrick, who
News Editor 
formerly served as admissions direc­tor, rejected this recommendation.
Board of Trustees member Philip 
He said converting men's dorms
Hawley said he is "enormously 
"would put us light-years back." 
troubled" with Notre Dame's admis­
Goldrick referred to when the Uni­s~ons policy of accepting a lower 
versity became coeducational, percentage of women than the 
describing that change as "a harrow­percentage of women who apply, ing experience" because men and he said he will bring the issue up resented surrendering tht:ir halls to for discussion at today's meeting of women. the board. Introducing Cahill, Student Body "Long range, you can't have a dis­Vice President Cathy David pointed criminatory admissions policy ... it out another observation made by cuts to the heart of the University the student panel: the lack ofwoman community," Hawley said at yester­role models. "I don't find many day's meeting of the board's Student female role models" that help wo­Affairs Committee during student men students deal with the problem government's presentation. of integrating a marriage, a career Hawley's comments followed a and a family. She referred to the low presentation by Lyons Hall presi­number of women on the faculty dent joan Cahill on the role of wo­and administration and the high men at Notre Dame. Cahill number ofrectresses who are nuns. recommended that more women be admitted to the University without The number of women qualified increasing enrollment. She said that and interested in teaching at a uni­28 percent of the freshman class are versity or serving as administrators women while 36 percent of the stu­is relatively small, admitted Cahill, dents that applied for admission but the problem cannot be ignored. were women. Cahill said, "It is a special problem, "There is definitely a need to es­but we think women must be incor­tablish an identity of the Notre porated into the departments as role Dame student as a woman. Women models. We recommend more wo­should be a fully integrated and men be worked into administrative equal part of the community ... that level positions as role models." is not always the case," said Cahill. The consensus of those at the Student Affairs Committee Chair­meeting was that an awareness of man Anthony Earley agreed with women's needs must be raised; atti­Cahill and Hawley. He said the Uni­tudes must change. But it was not versity should "let the chips fall denied that progress has been made where they may" in the admissions during the 12 years since women office and accept the most eligible were first admitted to the Univer­applicants, regardless of their sex. sity. Trustee Donald Keough said, "just seeing it over a period of years, Although most people in atten­you can see the role of women dance supported a less dis­emerging." criminatory admissions policy, the In another presentation, Execu­mechanics of amending the policy tive Coordinator Alison Yurko pro­was debated. Among other options, posed to the committee that the Cahill suggested changing men's dorms to women's dorms. see BOARD, page 3 


These two students are awaiting an answer in a started at midnight Wednesday and continues big game of Trivial Pursuit yesterday in through noon Saturday. Allproceeds willgo to the LaFortune's New Orleans Room. The junior class is Hope Rescue Mission and the Suicide Prevention sponsoring the Trivial Pursuit marathon, which Center. 

Pre-med intern program to expand 
By BETII WHELPLEY senior currently involved in the Dame or Saint Mary's may apply for News Staff Elkhart program, also met with the the program, worth one credit, in Memorial Hospital administrator. In the fall semester. The internship in­
Pre-med students at Notre Dame the meeting, the hospital agreed on volves four hours work per week at and Saint Mary's wiH be able to serve an internship program for 16 stu­the hospital as well as periodic as patient/family Jiaisons at South dents. meetings to discuss the students' ex­Bend's Memorial Hospital next se­Referring to the students as periences. mester, because of the success of a "interpersonal specialists," Press In the spring semester, the one­similar program at Elkhart General said, "The program gives students an credit program will be a lab for a Hospital. opportunity to see what sickness three-credit course taught by Press: 
In the program, students are an in­and treatment is like from the pa­Cultural Aspects of Clinical Medical tegral part of the hospital emer­tient's perspective." Anthropology 454. Enrollment is gency staff. Interns also provide a Bowman said the program is ben­already filled for this spring semes­communication link between the eficial to the students as well as the ter. family and patient, offering personal patients, families and hospital staff. Press said they may have to more service and assisting busy doctors "I think it is a good opportunity be­rigorously define eligibility for the and nurses. cause it opens doors for pre-meds. course and lab as he prefers to have 
Last week, Dr. Irwin Press, head of They can look behind the doors and students with an anthropology back­the internship program and anthro­see relationships develop," she said. ground, but not necessarily anthro­pology professor at Notre Dame, and pology majors. Father Robert Austgen, assistant "The nurses and the doctor have dean of the College of Arts and Let­been very helpfuL None ofthe emer­According to Press, Saint Joseph's 
ters, met with james Skogsberg, the gency room doors are closed to us. Hospital is a not now a possibility for 
vice president of Memorial Hospital, We are not viewed as students, but an internship program. Yet Press and Head Nurse Bev Baldwin. as part ofthe staff," Bowman said. said, 'If the program grows suffi­Tracey Bowman, a Saint Mary's Pre-med students from Notre ciently, who knows?" 

Faculty members are not elected to the Board of Trustees 


Editor's note: The following is the nance of the University with the voiced instead through the Aca­important issues," O'Meara said. ate report which he believes nas last offive articles examining the division of power in our nation's demic and Faculty Affairs Commit­Before the board meets, each not been properly acted upon. 
Notre DameBoard ofTrustees. The capital. tee ofthe board. This committee is trustee of the committee visits a "The Faculty Senate is still await­series will concentrate on who "In Wa~hington D.C., we distin­composed of trustees and faculty University dep;trtment and listens ing adequate response from the makes up the board, what its re­guish the different functions of the members, Bartell said. to the faculty members in that de­Administration and the Board of sponsibilities include, and the government: the legislative, judi­"They meet for a full day, make partment, Bartell said. Trustees on a student aid report 
question of a student on the cial and executive branches," he reports, and then the chairman of One trustee on the Academic submitted two years ago," he said. board. said. "Perhaps this is a good model the committee makes recommen-and Faculty Affairs Committee 
for the University." visited English department Chair­Bartell disagreed. "The report By KEITH HARRISON JR. Nonetheless, two faculty mem­man Edward Kline, and he was was discussed in the full board, and AssistantNews Editor bers are on the Board ofTrustees. Board of Trustees pleased with results. a very positive statement was 
series "This trustee did take our prob­made in response," he said. 

Faculty members are not In addition to Bartell, Father lems to the board, and then re­Bartell said the board agreed elected to the Board of Trustees Thomas Blantz, chairman of the ported the results to me," Kline with the report that student aid is because the board should be ob­history department, is also a trus­said. "I think they (the trustees) all essential, but disagreed with the jective and independent from all tee. They both became Fellows of dations to a meeting of the entire should come into the classrooms." senate's plan for raising aid money. other University parties, said Fa­the University before joining the board," he said. These visits show an increased "It was a minor difference," Bar­ther Ernest Bartell, University trus­faculty, and all fellows are ex of­The Academic and Faculty Af­effort on the part of the board to tell said. "The report recom­tee and executive director of the ficio members of the Board of fairs Committee does have an ef­enlarge faculty participation, ac­mended charging a high tuition, Kellogg Institute. Trustees. fect on board decisions, according cording to Bartell. while the board decided that the 
"The board is meant to provide "We do not really serve as adv­to Timothy O'Meara, University The Faculty Senate is another or­money should be raised from independent review and oversight, ocates of the faculty," Bartell ex­provost. ganization which can present fac­outside sources." so the trustees should not be the plained. "We serve in the same "Their effect is not really in the ulty views to the board, Bartell As a result, money for student same people that the board is manner as the other board mem­day-to-day operations ofthe board, said. aid will be a major part of the next reviewing," Bartell said. bers." but they do have a great deal to do Faculty Senate Chairman Bur­University fund raising drive, ac­
Burrell compared the gover-Faculty views and issues are with the forming of opinions on rell, however, mentioned one sen-cording to Bartell. 



The Observer Friday, Novemher 16, 1984 -page 2 
--------------------------------------------------------------------~----

Vietnafn accused <liinayesterday ofkilling Viet­namese civilians by firing shells and crossing the bonier in October and early November. The Vietnam News Agency, monitored in Bangkok. accused Olina of more than 100 "anned provocations" during the period and said Olina had sent five more infantry divi­sions to areas opposite Vietnam's Ha Tuyen and Lang Son provinces. Olinese troops crossed the bonier 15 times from October to early November, mined roads and warehouses, and kidnapped and assas­sinated Vietnamese, the news agency said. TheOtinese make similar claims about the Vietnamese.The two countries have exchanged such accusations since early 1979, when they fought a bloody six­week border war. -AP 
Fire engulfed a mobile home in Conway, S.C., killing three children, after their mother lit candles to light the trailer and left to watch television next door, authorities said. The heat and flames kept firefighters from entering the mobile home in the Buck­sport community when they arrived shortly before 10 p.m. Wednes­day, Horry County Fire Chief Bob Maxwell said. Maxwell said the mother had put the children to bed approximately 30 minutes before the fire broke out and went next door, leaving three candles burning because the power had been turned off that day. However, Maxwell said the cause of the fire is still under investigation. -AP 
Jack"Murph the Surf" Murphy, a celebrated jewel thiefand convicted killer, may be released from prison by next week and sent to an Orlando, Fla., ministry because ofhis new-found religious faith, officials say. Murphy, 4 7, was recommended for trans­fer to the work-release center by Ray Henderson, superintendent of the Zephyrhills Correctional Institution. "You're talking about a changed person when you talk about Jack Murphy today," Hender­son told The Tampa Tribune on Wednesday. Murphy, a former state surfing champion who admitted stealing the fabled Star of India in 1964, is scheduled to be paroled Nov. 14, 1986, from his life terms for killing two secretaries and for attempting to rob a Miami Beach socialite. -AP 
The Bank ofEnglandyesterday began distributing its new 20-pound note -with a slightly altered appearance intended to make it more difficult to forge. The note, worth about S25, is unchanged in size and general appearance, but has a new, more noticeable watermark of English playwright William Shakespeare in place of Queen Elizabeth Il's silhouette. A printed picture of the queen remains on the note, however. Sections of the note's silvery metal strip, which is costly and difficult for counterfeiters to copy, are discernible behind small windows, making it easier for bank clerks and customers to detect. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Golden Knights Parachute Te~of the United States Army will be practicing over the Notre Dame Stadium today for their half-time show during tomorrow's football game. The team will bring the game ball down from the heavens, in addition to their program at the half. -The Obseroer 
The student general store needs your support. During lunch today, student representatives will be collecting signatures on a petition for the store in both dining halls. -The Observer 
TheJudicial Council, in its biweekly meeting, met last night in the Hayes-Healy Center. The general meeting lasted only a few minutes, but the three council committees which are student legal services, administrative and rector relations, and spe­cial events, met individually for the first time this year. The commit­tee creating a student rights manual has already began work on their project. The council's next meeting will be held Nov. 29. -The Observer 

Weather 
Sunny skies but very cold weather over the weekend, with a chance of snow flurries. Highs today will be in the upper 30s to mid 40s, but temperatures will dip into the low to mid 20s tonight. It will be sunny and very cool Saturday, with highs in the 40s. -AP 

Ihe-Obsen!el'­
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per se· mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46'556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Design Editor......................... Chris Bowler Design Assistant ............ Matt Gracianette 
John Mennell Layout Staff...........................jennifer Hom Typesetters ........ ........... Bill Highducheck 
Dave Grote News Editor ......................... Keith Harrison Copy Editor ...................................... Uz Flor Sports Copy Editor .......... Theron Robens Sports Special Layout .......... Chris Bowler 
Mike Sullivan Viewpoint Layout................john Mennen Viewpoint Copy Editor......... Paul Cimino Features Copy Editor .............. Mary Healy Features Layout........................ Mary Healy ND Day Editor........................ Aimee Storin SMC Day Editor ....... Shirley Ore Ad Design .........................Suzanne LaCroix 
MaT)' Carol Creadon Typist..................... ................. Kim TyM:hen Photographer............................ Nick Griffin 




How come no one ever goes to the Linebacker Lounge? 
Two four-foot leprechauns adorn the Edison Road side of the building, and Fighting Irish caps are on sale inside. A wide-screen television sits in the corner, and the drink prices here probably are lower than any place in town. Best of all, this bar is right across the street from Notre Dame. 
But few students ever go there. It's the Linebacker lounge. 
Branded as a "townie" bar, students pass by the Linebacker either to pay a fortune at fancy new places or to practice group perspiration and hearing loss at the Five Points taverns. 
Don Sizemore, a bartender at the lounge, wishes more students would stop in. "They have more man­ners. They're more intellectual," he says, unlike a few of his other patrons who, he says, act like something un­printable. "You treat people with respect and you get respect," he says-the sound advice one always expects to hear from bartenders. 
"It's geared more for people over 25," says Fred Neidlinger, one of the owners, "but when younger ones come in we like to see 'em. We'd like to get the stu­dents in, but not at the ex· pense ofolder alumni." 

Those folks -alumni and subway alums -obviously constitute the backbone of the bar's business, and many of them packed the place last Monday night. The ABC football game-even without Cosell -blared loudly from three televisions. Most everybody seemed to be Seahawk fans, including a huge jack lambert lookalike sitting next to me at the bar. He spent most of the night cussing at the referees. 
Only kind words, however, were directed to the three scantily-clad models prancing about the tavern. Monday night, of course, also is "Intimate Apparel Fas­hion Show" night, sponsored by Candlelight Fashions in Scottsdale Mall. 
"This is $20," said one, beginning her routine. "It's called 'Baby Doll' with French accents, a black satin bow in front and black puffy stuff." Puffy stuff? 
"Would you like to huy a raffle ticket?" she asked. I bought one, as did my friend, both of us unsure to whom we would give lingerie small enough to fit in a sandwich bag. The guy to my left already had purchased 14 chances. We didn't win, and neither did he. 
By 2 a.m., the Linebacker crowd thinned, leaving the two of us, Dan the bartender and Frank D. Romeo, nicknamed "Dino". Dino offered all sorts of advice on life, and before long the subject naturally turned to Notre Dame football. 

Mark Worsch_eh 
Managing ft ;'itor 
Inside Friday 

"You gOl talent, you got to produce," says Dino, matter-offactly. "I don·t hate Faust. You just can't be a priest and coach at the same time," he says. The early game times and the way traffic is directed straight toward the toll road after the game has generated more resentment among the clientele. "Only two games this this year have contributed to South Bend, Indiana," says Dino. 
As I left the bar, I could not help wondering if stu­
dents had ever flocked to the linebacker Inn. Ap­parently not, at least not in the last decade. 
"I graduated in 1974," says Mike Garvey, assistant director of public relations and information at Notre Dame, "and I think I was there maybe three times in my career as a student. There were a few dirtballs who would go there be­cause it would stay open later. But it never rivaled Corby's or Nickie's. It was talked about, but it's never been a popular student bar." 
Back then, says Garvey, the tavern had a cement floor and offered little more than tables and beer. Nowadays, carpeting hides 
the foundation, and a juke box plays a mix of modern rock, country and even a· version of the Victory March that must be 30 years old. 
Neidlinger says he varies the music to please all age groups. "We have a DJ on Friday nights, and 75 percent ofthe music he plays is geared to the young." I certainly did not feel uncomfortable there, and one does not have to major in economics to appreciate 6S cent drafts. 
"The prices are right, and I'm sure you're going to have a good time here," says Dino. "But you're going to get carded." Underage sorts should head farther south­west on State Road 23, but for those students looking for something new, the linebacker's worth more than a passing glance. Try a Monday. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
THOUSANDS OF USED BOOKS ON AU. SUBJECTS 

• WE BUY USED BOOKS· HOURS: Wed., Sat. 6 Sun. 9 a.m. -7 p.m. Of II¥ appolfttlneftl IHI .......e.._ ... ,._ 6Q..1811 
Support the 
March of Dimes 
---BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION-illil 


(~·A·:.."TAME THE LIONS'' 
~~· 

f'1 DANCE PARTY 
Friday, November 16 lOpm -lam at Chautauqua (LaFortune) 
food and drink-D.J. $1.00 at door 
Alumni and friends WELCOME 
sponsored by Campus Entertainment Commission 

-

------------~---­
The Observer Friday, November 16, 1984 -page 3 

Actor Larry Hagman makes a point as be speaks at a Santa Monica, Ca., hospital Wednesday on behalf of the American Cancer Socie~v·s "Great 
Board 
Continued from page 1 
University build townhouses as al­ternative housing for seniors. "Our goal is to attract seniors who would not ordinarily move off-campus," Yurko explained. . 
Fifth-year architecture student and committee member Dave Gaudreau assisted Yurko in her presentation with sketches of the proposed complex at the perimeter 
American Smoke-out." Hagman, a fonner smoker, made theappearance to convincesmokers thatthey can stop, even iffor only one day. 
of campus near O'Hare-Grace town­houses. Each module, which would contain approximately 16 units would be "single sex and supervised by a live-in director who will be re­sponsible for maintaining standard campus regulations," according to the committee's report. 
Yurko emphasized, "Seniors would have a transition into adult living." She also pointed to the fact that the townhouses would alleviate some of the problem of over­crowded dorms on campus. 

Summarizing Cahill's and Yurko's presentations, Student Government Executive Coordinator Doug Wurth addressed the question he phrased a'>, "How can we promote growth? How can we promote a more posi­tive atmosphere?" 
Before Earley adjourned the meeting he emphasized that the Stu­dent Affairs Committee is "an advi­sory committee ... whether we can do anything or not is another mat­ter." 


Getting through college isn't easy. But help is on the way. Because Domino's Pizza is offering you financial assistance on your next pizza. The Pizza made with 100% natural cheeses and fresh, not 
frozen toppings. And we'll deliver it, custom-made, to your door in 30 minutes or
Off less. GUARANTEED. Call Domino's Pizza and help 
yourself to the best tasting 
pizza around. 

DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERS™ FREE. 
® 




College Bowl returns 
By KATHRYN HUMM 
News Staff 

The College Bowl Tournament, a question and answer game, will be held at Saint Mary's College during the first two weeks of December, said Georgenna Rosenbush, assistant director ofStudent Activities. 
Now entering its eighth season, the College Bowl On-Campus Pro­gram, co-sponsored by the Associa­tion of College Unions-International, features intra­mural and intercollegiate champion­ship play. 
Rosenbush said the intramural game is played by two teams of four who compete for points by answer­ing toss-up and bonus trivia ques­tions. At the end of the two seven-minute halves, the team with the highest score wins. 
Questions for the College Bowl are taken from many subject areas: literature, histor;· current events, science, religion, philosophy, myt­hology, art, music, rock, drama, sports and films. The emphasis is on quick recall and entertainment for players and the audience, Rosen­bush said. 
The winning team from Saint Mary's will travel to the University of Illinois, Urbana/Champaign, Ill., on the weekend of Feb. 16 and 1 7 to compete against other colleges from Illinois and Indiana. 
Rosenbush said all Saint Mary's students are encourged to partici· pate. According to Rosenbush, the registration date has been extended to Nov. 28, to allow more teams the opportunity to sign up. The games will be played on Dec. 2 and 9 from 1 to 5 in the Haggar College Center. Registration forms are available at the information desk in Haggar Col­lege Center. 
Robin Delaune, Chairman of the 1984 College Bowl Tournament said, 'I think everyone who par­ticipates will have fun. We're hoping to spark enough enthusiasm this year to revitalize the program. 

Smoking week at SMC ends 
ByJULIA HEWSON 
News Staff 
After a series of special events, in­cluding a non-smoking section in the dining hall, Smoking Awareness Week at Saint Mary's concluded Wednesday with a campus-wide "No Smoking Day". 
The week, sponsored by the Stu­dent Nurses Association, was planned to coincide with the nationally-observed Smoking Awareness Week. This is one of the health awareness efforts planned for the students and community this year, and is the first event of its kind at Saint Mary's, said junior Katie Schoen, chairman of Smoking Awareness Week. 
In observance of the week, the McCandless side of the dining hall was reserved for non-smoking stu­dents. Information was provided about the hazards of smoking, ano ashtrays were removed from many ofthe tables. 
The Student Nurses Association also provided free brochures on "How to Quit", available at the dining hall during the dinner hours. Any student who crushed a cigarette at the information recieved a free lollipop. Letters were sent to the fac­ulty of the Nursing Department as­king them to encourage students as well as teachers to participate in the week. 
According to Schoen, the results of this week have been promising. Students responded favorably or in­differently to the nl>n-smoking sec­tion in the dining hall, she said. The cafeteria will be deciding if these changes should be permanent. Schoen said the event was definitely a success and several students had even spoken to her about "kicking the habit." 


TAKE THE SUBWAY! 
Subway Alumni Reception 
Sponsored by the 
National Fighting Irish Subway Alumni Association 
Saturday morning, November 17th 9 a.m. to noon. (prior to Penn State game) at Parisi's Restaurant (Edison Rd. & S.R. 23) (1/2 mile east ofND Stadium) 
Footbal Films-Snacks-Cash Bar 
All SUBWAY ALUMNI, FAMILY AND FRIENDS WELCOMEII 
Come and meet your director and mingle with fellow Subway Alumni 



The Observer Friday, November 16, 1984-page 4 

TYPING 
Term Papers 
! Resumes LeHers Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 

Trivial Pursuit Marathon 
Nov. 14, 12midnight -Nov. 17, 12noon LaFortune, New Orleans Room All proceeds go to 
The Suicide Prevention Center and Hope Rescue Mission 
For more info call Beth 2798 
-
Gi\.oe the j!ift of mLL,ic. 
Ic~;t,,~l WHAM! 
DAN HARTMAN 

BILLY OCEAN 
·!p

JOHN WAITE 
I CAN DREAM ABOUT YOU
• ~ MAKE IT BIG 



SUDDENLY 
YOU'RE CETIIN' EVEN WHILE I'M CETIIN' ODD

NO BRAKES 
includ1ng 
INCLUDES CONCEALED WEAPONS HEAVY PETTINGINCLUDING MISSING YOU ~ 

WASTED YOUTH Careless Whisper/Freedom II You Were There 
Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go 

~~ 
~. 

,c=.===:::;-, 
'I< MAKE IT fi!G 

0 
-

f 
• CARIBBfA~ OUff" •LOVfRflOY 

'-----­
CASSETIE

--~CASSETTE 

T () T () 
•ncludmg Stranger In Town/Holyanna How Does It Feel/Angel Don t Cry Endless 

Columb•a 
Album or Cassette 
I Feel For You 

REMEMBER...Camelot Gift Certificates Are Available In Any Denomination! 
~ L..--,N-C-LU-0-ES-:~CASSETTE 

I Feel For You "----­
ROD STEWART 



Ct:LTVRE CLUB
Camouflage 

theAon#y \\:\1\1\(; lP \\ ITJI VOlUME ONE TilE IIOlSE 0.\ FIRE 
•ncludmg . The War Song/Don I Talk About It 'tello Goodbye/ The Medal Song 
M1stake No 3 ~~=<J 

INCLUDES: CUIETTI 
I Just Called To Say"==~ I Love You 
BASF CHROME VIDEOWSEnES


-----""" FUJI VIDEOWSEnES 
STANDARD 

T-120/l-750 Reg. $7.99
GRADE 4-PACK 
T-120/L-750 Reg. $31.911 
Sa_le $699
P====~ 
~~~e $2596 REPLAY OR
~mSETTE ~:~.e .ssoo 
Pnce SJ 00
MFG RE-RECORD,
Rebate • THE QUALITY
::s2096 
NEVER FADES RNAL $ ON BASF CHROME'






5''.. 

COST lmr'
.. ~:BASF
:o: 
WE CARRY 

University Park Mall 272-4186 
illJO~©

University Park Movie Dept.-Sale or Rental 
DIGITAL AUDIO 




The Observer Friday, November 16, 1984 -page 5 

APPhoto
Ivy League strike 

More than 800 striking Yale University cleri­The clerical and technical employees union bas cal and technical employees, students and sympat­been on strike against tbe university since Sept. 26 hizers marched through tbe Yale campus and New in a contract dispute. Haven, Conn., streets Wednesday without incident. 
'Wait for MBA,' ND grad advises 
By MIKE ANNAN LISA ground is not detrimental to finding majors is cash management, an area ,,o/ews Staff a job in a business field. 'Emphasize based on efficiency: maximum finan­your liberal arts background -tell cial return for minimum expend­
A business major should not seek them if you have a minor in English, iture. "Money management an MBA immediately after gradua­or if you speak a foreign language ... accounts is the newest and most tion, said James Jack, Notre Dame all that is becoming more and more lucrative field in the business graduate and executive vice presi­important. Coming from a school today," he said. "A good example of dent and chief financial officer of like Saint Mary's, you've got a lot to the amount of money involved is The Associates Corporation of sell," Jack said. Citicorp, who recently spent a half North America at Saint Mary's Hag­While he stressed the importance of a million dollars simply to sell its gar College Center last night. of computer skills in the rapidly cash management services." 
"I don't think that it is the best changing business world, Jack said "Poor management has been idea to get an MBA right after getting the most important aspect to market sighted as the major cause of recent your bachelor's. Look for a company is the combination of cultural skills bank failure; this is due mostly to the with a good training program, then and technical skills. 'A well-rounded banks' inability to adapt to today's let the company pay for any further employee is very sought-after financial environment. Therefore, education you might need," said today," he said. today's business students will find Jack. According to Jack, the field with great opportunity in this field if they 
He said that a liberal arts back-the most opportunities for business can learn to be competitive." 

Social club provides relaxation, local talent 
By ANN KALTENBACH by two Saint Mary's students and a 
News Staff Notre Dame student. 
"We had a good turnout," Ruther­

Just when you were drowning ford said. "There was an average of 
your sorrows over the curtailment 25 to 30 people there which in­
of Notre Dame social activity, Saint cluded both students and faculty." 
Mary's has initiated its own weekly Rutherford said entertainment 
entertainment program, said will vary from movies to live student 
Chameleon Club representative performances, integrating classes, 
Toni Rutherford. halls, academic departments and fac­
"The Chameleon Club will offer ulty. 
the chance for friends to get to­Rutherford said, "There is so 
gether and relax before going out on much talent on campus, and we 
a Friday night," explained Ruther­want students to show us what they 
ford. "It is a place to unwind in a can do. We want as much campus 
non-alcoholic, happy hour setting." talent as possible, so I recommend 
Tonight's Chameleon Club enter­interested students to contact the 
tainment will begin at 5, featuring Studtnt..Activities office." 
short "Charlie Chaplain" and "Three "Plans are not definite, but the fac­
Stooges" movies. ulty may present a talent show on 
The groundwork for the club Nov. 30," she said. 
began last year with the sponsoring According to Rutherford, snack 
of similarly-oriented Coffee Houses. bar food can be purchased at a dis­
Since October, Usa Graham, Usa Fitt count during club hours by present­
and Rutherford have been meeting ing the club membership card, 
with Saint Mary's Student Activities distributed to all Saint Mary's stu­
to lay a permanent club foundation. dents. 
Rutherford said, "Lisa Fitt was Membership in the Chameleon 
elected to the Entertainment Com­Club permits Saint Mary's students 
mission for student government. to invite guests. The club is also 
Through her position, she really got open to all members of the Notre 
the idea of the club rolling." Dame community. 
The Chameleon Club is located "We are especially trying to keep 
on the mezzanine level in the Haggar costs at a minimum," Rutherford 
College Center. It is open every emphasized. "Movies may cost 25 
Friday evening from 5 to 7:30. cents for a member and 50 to 75 
cents for non-members." 

Describing the club's atmosphere, She added, "Saga is waiting to see Rutherford said, "We have tried to how the club takes off. If it is suc­create a nightclub setting. It is dimly cessful, they may set up a pizza or lit with tables that include candles, bagel bar in the club." tablecloths and popcorn." Rutherford noted, "This is a much 
Rutherford said the club will more permanent arrangement than 
feature first-rate entertainment. last year. The Chameleon Club is Opening night, Nov. 9, had musical definitely going to happen ifwe have and vocal entertainment provided interested people." 


NOTRE DAME CALENDAR (Wall Size) Featuring 13 Beautifu I ~~campus Sights" Illustrations By Jack Appleton On Sale At The Notre Dame Bookstore ­


The Observer Friday. November 16, 1984-page 6 
Saint Mary's history teacher honored at Italian conference 
By SHANNON OAKES tion Historian,' the only bookwritten cording to Pullapilly, Baronius 
News Staff in this century about Baronius as wrote the first major history of the 
well as the only book about Baronius Catholic Church through the 16th 
Cyriac Pullapilly, history profes­in English. century, more than any other 
sor at Saint Mary's, was honored in scholar at any time. For this reason, 
the Italian city Sora at a conference Pullapilly said his is the only scien­Pullapilly said, Baronius is known as 
on Cardinal Baronius and the Arts in tific biography of its kind. All other the father ofmodernchurch history. 
the 16th century. books on this subject are polemical, 
reflecting the biases of either Cat­The work of Baronius was impor­
Pullapilly was invited by the Ital­holics or Prostestants. tant in reestablishing the Church au­
ian government to the conference, thority after the Protestant 
held from Nov. 6 to 12. While researching for the book, Reformation. According to PUl­
Pullapilly said he uncovered many lapilly, Baronius 'saved the Catholic 
Pullapilly gave a lecture at the new manuscripts from various ar­Church's integrity." conference on Baronius' influence chives of Europe, including the on the arts in the 16th century. On Vatican. Because of the new infor­Cardinal Baronius was a coun­the last day of the conference, Pul­mation that he found, other scholars selor for several popes, Pullapilly lapilly was awarded a plaque for his have been able to write new books said. Through his counseling, man} achievements in a special ceremony. on the Catholic Reformation. reforms were made in the Church. 
The mayor, the archbishop, mem­including the revision of the calen­bers of the city council, leading Pullapilly has authored or edited dar. Pullapilly said Baronius was citizens of Rome and representa­1 1 books. He is also the general even elected in two conclaves and tives of the Italian government at­editor ofa book series entitled "The had the two-thirds majority needed tended the ceremony in the Sora Church and the World." to become pope. The Spanish king, City Hall. however, vetoed his election be­
Pullapilly said the city Sora was cause of a book written by Baronius Pullapilly has written a book, chosen for the conference because against the Spanish control of 'Caesar Baronius Counter Reforma-it is the birthplace of Baronius. Ac-Naples. 
Admissions director recommends an MBA 
By RAY MULERA degree with a liberal arts back­recent influx of MBA holders in the News Staff ground. She told students to seek job market has caused a "drying up" MBA degrees because they now en­of opportunities. Only the better 
Master's of Business Administra­joy a status similar to what a college graduates from the top schools will tion degrees are a "tangible means of degree has held in the past. be finding employment, she said. An documenting skills," and the ability Dowd also said an MBA coupled MBA from one of these top schools, to present proofofthese skills "gives with liberal arts background better however, is an "unlimited ticket to an edge" to MBA holders in the job prepares the student for manage­success," Dowd said. market, said Karen Dowd, director ment positions than the usual busi­Dowd's lecture was sponsored by of admissions at Colgate-Darden ness degree and MBA combination, the Department of Business Admin­Graduate School of Business. because of better communication istration, the Department of Eco· 
Dowd spoke to students in the skills taught in liberal arts programs. nomics and the the Counseling and Saint Mary's Haggar College Center She told students to pick the Career Development Center at Saint Wednesday on the value of an MBA school they apply to carefully as the Mary's. 



WINTER BREAK '84/'85 






Jiaubcrba c 1 


IRISH GET TANNED IN FT. LAUDERDALE 
ACTION TAKES PLACE AT TWO MAJOR HOTELS 
SheratonYankee Clipper SheratonYankee Trader 

Beach fun galore ... right outside your door. Home of PEN RODS, the hottest spot on the beach. 
Wave after wave ofstudents descend on Fort Lauderdale .•. but the smartest check in at the two great Sheratons, where the best doesn't cost more. 

GET YOUR SUCE OF THE SUN BY CAU.ING (toll-free): 1·800-325·3535 



The Observer Friday, November 16, 1984 -page 7 


Walter Mondale and his family stroll along the The Mondales have been vacationing in the Virgin beach at St. john, Virgin Islands, yesterday. From Islands since the election. left are William, Ted, Mondale,joan and Eleanor. 



] e a crack at our NewTaco Salad. 
The salad in the bowl you can eat. 
Let us make one,just for you. We start with all the fresh things you love in a salad, add mildly seasoned ground beef, real cheddar cheese, and rich sour cream. Then we serve it 
up in a bowl that's a flaky flour tortilla shell. You'll love every bite. ,,./ So come on in to Taco Bell and ask for our tasty New Taco Salad. Then get cracking. 
CLIP THESE MONEY SAVING COUPONS. 


Saint Mary's professor has his music featured 
Special to The Observer Award, the Louis Lane Orchestral 
Award and the Bernard Sernofsky 

Roger Briggs, assistant professor Prize. 
of music at Saint Mary's College, will Recent honors include first place have his composition, "The Descent award in the Alienor Composition Beckons," performed at Symphony Competition and a fellowship to Space Theatre in New York City study with Peter Maxwell Davies at a today and tomorrow. summer seminar at Darlington Col­
"The Descent Beckons," a three­lege in Totnes, England. He was movement work for violin, cello and awarded a New York State Council piano, was inspired by the work of of the Arts grant for a recording, and poet William Carlos Williams. a grant for professional develop­
ment from the American Society of 

The work has been Composers, Authors and Publishers. choreographed for modern dance by dancer/choreographer Kathleen Briggs' works have been per­Quinlan, and will be part of a pro· formed throughout the country, in­gram of modern dance entitled "The cluding two new York City Dance Theatre of Kathleen Quinlan premieres. His composition for solo and Thomas Leff." piano, "Spirals," has been recorded 
·Thomas Leff, faculty member at on the Opus One recording label by Swarthmore College, is stage desig­pianist JeffreyJacob. ner for the production. Dancers and musicians will appear on a common Briggs received a. grant in 1983 stage, emphasizing the interrelation­from the National Endowment for ship between the music, words and the Arts to compose another dance dance in communicating their work and, this year, he received the humanistic message. Petit Jean International Artsong 
Composer Fellowship. He is also 

Briggs, director of the Michiana currently working on two commis­New Music Ensemble, is a graduate sioned works: one for chamber or­of Memphis State University and chestra, to be premiered next July holds a doctorate from the Eastman by The Music· Ensemble in London, School of Music. He has received England, and a band work which will numerous awards for composition, premiere next spring at Ball State including the Dryfus/MacDowell University. 

............................................................................................. 
Open to All I 
• THE BOBS 
frorn San Francisco 
Dec 1, Saturday 

I 
at ... 
*~I


~' .. T... '<Oit~t>... I• 

·····························~;!·····..·••••..···•··••··••••••·••••••....•••.....••.......... 

NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME 
2 -bedroom furnished apartments 
Available...Winter semester... convenient ...spacious...Laundry facilities...plentiful parking...superior maintenence ... 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL: (219) 234-6647 



View)2_0_i_n__t_________F_...
rid-ay_,N_ov-em_b_er-16_,1-98-4-pa-ge-8 
·' 
I 
( 
~ 
f 
~ 
(' 
~ 
( ( I 
( ( ( 
( f 
( 
( 
( 
r I 
( ( 
~ 
( 
~ 
r ( I ( 
( 
i 
( 
( { 
Student should serve 


on Board of Trustees 
How can students be fairly represented in the formation ofUniversity policy 
without representation on the Board of Trustees? How can the Notre Dame 
administration believe the board can clearly understand student opinion with­
out the input of someone who is in the middle of it all? And how can Notre 
Dame students be satisfied with the way things are done at the University when 
they are allowed only token presentations at board committee meetings? 
The lack ofa student on the board is blatantly inconsistent with the philoso­phy of a community established for the advancement of its members' knowl­edge. The attitude of the administration on this issue is disturbing, as is evidenced by Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson's explana­tion for the absence of a student trustee. "I don't know why there is not a student on the board," he said in Monday's Obseroer article in this week's special series on the issue, "but I suspect it was decided in 1967, when the board was set up, to not include a student on the board." 
This is not a legitimate excuse. To dismiss this injustice as a tradition or as a matter decided 1 7 years ago is unacceptable. It is time to re-examine the issue. Itis time to take a long look at the reasons for this lack ofrepresentation. And it · is time to let students have reasonable input in the way things are done around here. 
The student government cannot have the same kind of influence on the administration as a student trustee. Student government is fine for doing things such as putting lights on basketball courts, but when it comes to affecting University policy, few seem to take it seriously, neither the students nor the· administration. 
Notre Dame would do well to take a look across U.S. 31 at Saint Mary's as an example ofhow a student successfully can represent her peers on the College's governing body. The College's Board of Regents has had a student representa­tive as a contributing member to its meetings since the board's beginnings. It should serve as an example of a system which has overcome the excuses and does a good job offairly representing its students in the formation ofpolicy. 
Other schools also have overcome the traditional explanations which resurface whenever the issue is brought up. While the University ofKentucky's board is required by state law to include a student, its board is "sensitive to what is happening on campus" because ofits student trustee, according to Tim Freudenberg, UK student trustee. 
Notre Dame Board Chairman Thomas Carney's reasoning that a student trus­tee would be ineffective because of the need for confidentiality is proven in­correct by the success ofthe Saint Mary's and University ofKentucky's boards. 
Also mistaken is Student Body President Robert Bertino. He said that because a student is only here for four years, a student trustee would lack the foresight demanded by a position on the ultimate governing body of the Uni­versity. This simply is not true. Because the student is participating in the University experience he or she would serve as a gauge ofstudent opinion and would be able to give integral insight in the formation ofpolicy by the board. 
We are convinced that appointing a student trustee is an excellent idea. Where is the courage on the part ofNotre Dame to take this bold step? Students at this University, no matter the head-patting from its administrators, are not being heard. Allowing a student to serve as a voting member of the Board of Trustees is a move that should have been made 17 years ago. 

Current student voice does not have muscle 
Yesterday, student government flexed the only muscle it has with Notre 
Dame's Board of Trustees: a three-hour meeting with the trustees' Student 
Affairs Committee and a handful of administrators. 
It was a friendly and relaxed meeting, and the three student presentations ­which addressed the role ofwomen at Notre Dame, senior townhouses and an alcohol-free social life-were all well prepared and clearly stated. 
But when 6 o'clock rolled around and the trustees closed their folders to head offto dinner, it did not seem as if much had been accomplished. 
Lyons Hall President Joan Cahill argued strongly against sex discrimination in the admissions office, but with the exception of a few outspoken trustees, it was unclear if the committee will recommend to the entire board that more women be admitted to the University. Executive Coordinator Alison Yurko proposed building on-campus townhouses for seniors, but when questions were asked about funding and location, the discussion stalemated. Executive Coordinator Doug Wurth asked for the trustees' support of new social-life op­portunities, including an undergraduate club. But the trustees wanted specifics, and the discussion turned into little more than a brainstorming ses­sion. 
So much for muscle. 

The trouble is that at Notre Dame student government is a misnomer. The administration has never allowed student government to have any legislative powers whatsoever. So when the cries from LaFortune's second floor fall on deaf ears under the Golden Dome, it seems only logical to take student con­cerns before the Board ofTrustees. 
But that does not work either. As trustee Anthony Early said yesterday, the Student Affairs Committee can only listen and tell the entire board what it heard. "We are an advisory committee," Early said. "Whether or not we can do anything is another matter. We are not involved with the administration of the University." 
It seems a shame that the students' greatest influence in policy decisions is to tell someone who can only tell someone else. 
-The Observer 



Finishing those peas do starving little good 
No one who has been watching the nightly news lately could help but feel uncomfortable about the horrible pictures brought to us from Ethiopia, concerning the continuing famine there. Of course, we have all seen those pictures before: the living human skeletons, the bloated stomachs, the flies and fleas crawl­ing all over the babies. But it is always discon­certing for us to be confronted with these pictures we are good at forgetting, and we tend to be resentful ofthose people who feel it 
Faustin Weber 
guest column 

is their moral duty to remind us. We are all aware of the burden that our afiluence places upon us, but we become tired of that burden and the seeming hopelessness of the whole situation. What can we possibly do in the face of our limited supply and their inexhaustible demand? Very little it seems, and so we do things designed to allay our uneasiness and help us forget. 
Perhaps we throw a couple of bucks into the collection basket for the missionary who preached at Sunday Mass. Or maybe we signed up for the Wednesday fast. Or perhaps we even participated in the Hunger Meal a few weeks ago. Or possibly we have consciously not participated in any of these things, and have made for ourselves a moral justification on this position by claiming that our involve­ment will do very little in the general scheme of things -the "poor will be with us always" argument. I believe all four of these actions, though marked perhaps by a deep sincerity (even the last one), often belie a more profound unwillingness on our part to accept the burden that our afiluence places upon us. 
We give a few bucks here and there, maybe to a "consciousness-raising" event or lecture at the Center for Social Concerns, but the result is too easily that we feel as if we have 'done something' and can go about our lives with an easier conscience. My purpose is not to try to undermine admirable groups such as the World Hunger Coalition, or those working at the Center for Concerns, or to imply they are trying to simply ease our conscience. Yet it is to say that this is often the result of such consciousness-raising events, and if this is so, it is better not to have them -and let us be uneasy. 
Such a statement might seem unfair to the organizers of these events, for it is precisely this moral uneasiness which they are trying to create. But I have never been a big believer in consciousness-raising events, especially if they are divorced from any concrete action like fund-collecting. I refer more specifically to the recent World Hunger Coalition meal. If you are like I am you have been doing this since freshmen year in high school, and the whole thing has taken on a ritualistic form; once a year we all go eat rice and drink un­sweetened tea, and thereby supposedly have new understanding and insight into what those poor starving people in Ethiopia must be experiencing. But ofcourse, we do not. We cannot. How can we; the same network which brings us the picture from Ethiopia is sponsored after all, by Purina Cat Chow (chow, chow, chow) and Charmin toilet paper (starring Mr. Whipple). Ours is a com­pletely different world. We can never even hope to understand that poverty (unless, I guess, we move to Ethiopia and begin starving ourselves.) The problem with trying is that it often leads to a moral inertia, in that it makes us believe we have actually "done something" for those people, when in fact all we have 
done is deluded ourselves. 

I finished the Hunger Meal feeling good that I had participated. But of course I had not done anything more than those who refused to participate · those to whom I was easily led to feel morally superior. As we found out later, no money was donated from the dining halls. Thus to me the whole thing makes little more sense than my grandmother's argument about why I should finish eating my peas: "Think of all those starving people in India; it would be a sin to waste them." Finishing my peas does those Indians very little good. Neither does my "consciousness being raised" really help out those Ethiopians. It is even harmful if it leads to this moral inertia. 
What then, do I propose? Simply forget about these starving Ethiopians? Hardly. We can all give concrete aid to th~se people in terms of money, and for some of us, with our lives. But we should be persuaded to do so in a way that always makes us feel very uneasy, as if we have never done enough. We bear a bur­den for our affiuence, and we should frankly admit to ourselves that we do not like this bur­den, and will subconsciously try to rationalize it away. And more concretely, we should do away with other "consciousness-raising" events such as the Hunger Meal, at least until we can get a real financial commitl)lent from the dining halls. I find Notre Dame Food Services Director Bill Hickey's statement that the dining halls did not save a substantial amount from the meal very hard to believe ­not only because of the cheaper cost of the meal for those who participated but also be­cause the combined total count for both dining halls was significantly lower than a reg­ular dinner. The problem is that if there is no concrete financial outcome from these proj­ects I will have done little more for those Et­hiopians than the eating of my leftover peas. 
Faustin Weber is a graduate theology student atNotre Dame. 

"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~------------------------------------------F-ri_d_ay_,_N_o_ve_m_b_e_r_t_6_,t_9_B_4_-__P_ag_e__9 
The next four years should be interesting ones 
It never rains on Wednesdays in South Bend 
P.O.BoxQ 
Last, best hope of man according to Johnson 
Dear Editor: 
Thomas Jefferson once said that this nation is the "last, best hope of man". And indeed, even as one of those Evil Liberals daily vilified in your newspaper, I still believe it. I do not accept the thought that we were put on this earth, in this rich nation, at this particular time in history, simply to eat, live, and die. I love my nation, but not just for what it is today; rather, for what it can be if we are willing to work for what our nation really stands for. 
There are many voices in this land telling us that in order to be an American, we must love our country simply for what it is and be satisfied with that. They say our nation should no longer stand for any principles or ideals, since it is so bothersome to try and do so. W c no longer protest the increasing misery ofthe poor at a time when we are getting better off; we no longer protest when our nation alone abstains from the responsibility ofstriking out against South Africa's destruction of a people; we no longer seem to care when our nation sinks to the moral level ofits adversaries in the world, apparently believing that we must become the things we hate in order to get the things we love. 

We cannot escape responsibility for these tion, and the concept of justice, need not be ofinterest by the student body. We do not see acts, for they are done in our name. When we separable. the logic behind blaming the Republicans be­idly accept these things, when we fail to Franklin M.johnson cause only five people were in attendance. protest against the wind, when we believe LawStudent Now that the facts have been straightened that the destiny ofother people has no bearing out, we would like to briefly mention the ac­
Republicans respond 
on our own lives, we do not help to make this tive role the College Republicans have played a better country. We destroy it. We begin to in the election. In this past campaign, we have

to Paul Komyatte 
tear away at the fragile moral fabric that is the assisted the Republican party through soul of this nation -what sets us apart from Dear Editor: working at phone banks, registering voters, other powerful nations ofpast and present. It Because of Paul Komyatte's letter attacking campaigning door-to-door, and working the is that fleeting wind of hope that this nation the College Republicans, we feel it our duty to polls. Now that the election is over, the Col­can stand for, to people all over the world who respond. Though we will not resort to a lege Republicans will remain active in the have a hard time just living from day to day. vitriolic, personal attack as Komyatte did, we local political process. 
will attempt to present the facts involving the In conclusion, the purpose of the College 
It is a belief that we are all an equal part of cancelled debate. Komyatte claimed the Republicans is to provide students the oppor­this world; that to each and every person, an­Republicans did not show up. This is an un­tunity to get involved in and to learn about the other person's life matters. It is the intangible, truth. political process. Through this election, we yet very real feeling that we in this world are Though there was a misunderstanding as to have been able to do just that. Our active not all that different from each other; that the holding ofthe debate, the Republicans did members have gained insights that few have when we wipe away the cars, the houses, and in fact have a representative present and the opportunity to attain. the education, we are all very much the same. prepared to speak. The reason the debate john D. Husman And as a result of this, it is the belief-and the failed to come off was not due to a lack of a Matthew O'Toole responsibility -that this nation stands not just Republican representative, it was due to lack Notre Dame College Republicans for ilS own power, but for hope, for compas­sion, for equality, for justice. Anyone who seeks to escape from these responsibilities 
Viewpoint wants to bearfrom you. Ifyou

stands as a barrier, blocking our efforts to do 
bave an opinion, brlllant inslgbt or


Viewpoint
what we must. 
bumorous comment concerning anytbtng

It was Albert Camus who wrote, "I should 
appearing tn The O~rverjustsend a let­

like to be able to love my country and still love 
ter toP.O.Box Q.

Policyjustice." But let me go farther than that. I ar­
rogantly believe that the very soul of this na-
Brown University's student body recently approved a proposal meant to raise campus awareness on nuclear warfare. The proposal requests that the university pharmacy stock cyanide tablets as an alternative to death by nuclear weapons or their effects. Brown's ad-
Charles Boudreaux 
only solitaire 
ministration, as well as many of the students who supported the plan, chose to look upon the vote as a consciousness-raising message, not a request for officially sanctioned suicide. I am not so sure, however, that the referen­dum is not better as an actual alternative in­stead of a symbolic one. 
I feel torn between two views. Part of me is optimistic: it believes that human beings have the wisdom required to avoid nuclear self­destruction. The other part is pessimistic: it believes that I am a fool to disregard the end­less historical examples of the same human failings. This part says that I should take my cyanide now: it says that we will eventually destroy ourselves, and probably sooner than later. 
My optimistic side points me to the belief that human beings are basically good. Human beings have had trouble for centuries, yet we 
Well, here we are going into the final two weeks of the 1984 football season. The Fight­ing Irish have been battered and bruised, but the fans still maintain that great Irish spirit. with a 5-4 record, most complainers like to blame Gerry Faust and his staff. I, however, believe that the bad times have been caused 
Andy Saal 
partially paranoid 
by something else -the home game environ­ment. Let's face it, we are 4-0 on the road (Purdue was officially a home game). This leads me to the conclusion that something is wrong with our home games. It seems that whenever it rains at home, we lose. Whenever we have cable 1V coverage at home, we lose. I now present a few modest proposals which might hopefully help the Irish next season. 
The simplest solution would be to schedule all of next year's games on the road. Since we cannot win home games, we might as well play them all in everyone else's stadiums and win. This, of course, would be quite un­workable. After a while, the team and the fans have flourished. Look at the Jose Duartes, the John Pauls, the Mohandas Gandhis of our world. Your fear ofthe atomic bomb is foolish. After all, the Bomb has been around since 1945 and we are still hen:, though many a chance went by when more foolish men would have used it. 

My pessimism laughs as it counters my opti­mistic side. It bases its claim on the fundamen­tal reality that, while our knowledge has increased through the centuries, our con­cepts ofwisdom and justice have not grown to meet this new knowledge. Human knowledge has yielded an evolution of warmaking devices; from a simple beginning ofstones and clubs, we have created nuclear weaponry and its globe-girdling delivery systems. Our wis­dom, however, remains blinded on two criti­cal points: we believ~ that each new weapon is the ultimate weapon and that each war is the last war. We were once foolish enough to believe that the atomic bomb was the ultimate weapon. The hydrogen bomb, the neutron bomb, and new chemical and biological ordnance indicate that we have only begun to discover creative new ways to destroy our­selves. People in 1919 referred to the worldwide conflict of the last four years as "The Great War"-that is, until World War II. We build bigger, "better" weapons, yet we refuse to acknowledge that we do not have the wisdom to deal with them. 
Our sense of justice seems to be as faulty as 
might get tired of travelling every week. 
Besides, with no home games to draw 
thousands of tourists, the entire South Bend 
economy would crash into ruin and never 
recover. 

The solution then, is to convince the team that they are playing an away game, even though they are at home. If all of the Notre Dame fans dressed in the rival team's colors and cheered against the Irish, perhaps the team would he fooled. Another way to try to fool the team would be to place microphones in the visiting sections. If their cheers were amplified, the pseudo-away game atmosphere would be quite believable. Then, the team will think that they are on the road and will win the game. 
Whenever a home game is covered by a cer­tain cable TV network, we always seem to lose. Now, the simplest solution would be to ban the television crews from the stadium. We have done well enough with just radio coverage for fifty years. Alas! The loss in 1V revenues, however, would probably finan­cially cripple our friends at the ACC who sit on plush chairs in elegant offices. 
So, how does one convince the team that they are not on televison when they really are? If we camoflauged the camera men in whirt skirts and gave them porn pons and megaphones? Well, on second thought, I am 
not sure if the camera men's union would like 
that. 

Maybe it is the fact that ESPN is covering 
our games. The team seems to do well onABC, 
but why not ESPN? The reason is, I believe, 
that no one thinks of ESPN as a legitimate net­
work. After all, how many television networks 
havefour letters in their acronym title? There 
is also something about the letter "E"; it seems 
so mild and unaggressive. When you hear 
ABC, you think of the American Broadcast 
Company. When you hear NBC, you think of 
the National Broadcast Company. But, when 
you hear ESPN, what do you think of? In a 
recent poll, four out of five dentists recom­
mended sugarless gum and believed that 
ESPN stood for the English, Spanish and Por­
tuguese Network. 

If those letters confuse the fans, imagine what they do to the team. "All right men, listen up. We are going to be playing this game on ESPN. Huh? Isn't that like AstroTurf?" 
Well, even if we cannot schedule all of our games on the road or convince ESPN to change their logo, there is one thing we can do here at home. I have hear someone com­pare our offense to an old Plymouth-It runs great when it is dry outside, but it sputters when it gets wet. 
our sense of wisdom. This country con­
demned the Holocaust; at the same time, the 
United States took part in the fire-storming of 
Dresden. Though Dresden was thought to 
have no strategic importance, at least 135,000 
people were burned alive as the Allies turned 
the city into an edificial furnace. As far as dis­
crimination on the basis ofrace is concerned, 
our country also incarcerated almost 80,000 
United States citizens, merely because they 
were of Japanese descent. Our war-making 
ability continues to be far more developed 
than our sense of justice. 
My pessimism relentlessly continues its cri­tique. Nuclear deterrence is based on ven­geance alone, it points out. Deterrence is supposed to prevent countries from launch­ing their weapons, due to fear of a coun­terstrike by the attacked country. Once a country's weapons are actually launched, however, deterrence has already failed. As Michael Walzer put it, "the use of our deter­rent capacity would be an act of pure destructiveness." Besides, biological warfare is ready to leap into any gap left by a nuclear 
peace. In addition to the "advantages" of being cheaper to make and easier to launch, certain biological weapons oxidize, leaving a country ready to occupy in a matter ofhours, days, or weeks instead of nuclear half-lives. 
Just over a week ago, the majority of the citizens of the United States used their most direct governmental influence, the vote, tore-
elect the first president since 1945 who has 
not made some sort of serious effort to gain 
world peace. They re-elected a president 
who, by agreeing to put U.S. missiles in West­
ern Europe, both upset the balance of power 
and drew a threat ofautomated, unnegotiable 
retaliation from the Soviets -a threat that may 
soon become reality. They re-elected a presi­
dent who said that the time for making swords 
into plowshares had passed, a president who 
made jokes about global annihilation. It is no 
wonder that I am somewhat pessimistic. 

I believe that I have plenty of reason to be 
ambivalent. On the one hand, I believe in 
basic human goodness and in the occasional 
outstanding peacemaker. On the other hand, I 
suspect that such beliefs are foolish: perhaps I 
am merely attempting to close my mind to the 
inexorable weight of human history and 
humanity's tendency for knowledge, rather 
than wisdom and justice. 

Write your political representatives. Inves­
tigate nuclear awareness groups such as 
Ground Zero. Show those in power that you 
don't want to die byany form ofsuicide, espe­
cially nuclear suicide. Ifyou are not willing to 
try to stave offArmageddon, I suggest that you 
keep your cyanide handy: the next four years ­
if we still have four years-should be interest­
ing ones. 

Charles Boudreaux is a juniorProgram of Liberal Studies major and a regular View­pointcolumnist. 
It seems that whenever kickoff time is 
changed for television coverage, it rains. A 
simple solution would be to let the 1V people 
change the time. Then, the day before the 
game, move the kickoff back to its normal 
time. Hopefully, both the 1V people and the 
rain clouds would show up long after the 
game. 

Well, just suppose for an instant that we had 
an opportunity to get the team out of the rain 
permanently. Imagine a new domed Notre 
Dame Stadium. Now, some ofyou might think 
that giving up our present stadium would be a 
great loss of tradition. But hey, that new 
stadium could have a golden dome too! Just 
think, no more rainy, cold games. 

Oops, hold on a second. We lost to measly 
Purdue in the Hoosier dome. Scratch the 
domed stadium idea. 

Well, now what are we left with to solve the problem of rain? How can we find a dry envi­ronment for our team to play in? I have got it! Why don't we just move all of our home games to Wednesdays? It never rains on Wed­nesdays in South Bend, only on weekends. 
Andy SlUll is a sophomore in the College of Science at Notre Dame and a regular View­point columnist. 
The Observer Friday, November 16, 1984-page 10 

Local art exhibition begins today 
Special to The Observer South Bend, enrolled in a college or decoration. 1'hey are high-hre university graduate or undergradu­stoneware spheres and platters 
The works of the juried regional ate program, were invited to enter upon which he has drawn with student art exhibition may be up to three works in the competi­ceramic pencils, incised lines, slips viewed at the Moreau and Little tion. and staining. The motifs are related Theatre galleries at Saint Mary's This regional exhibition was to the animal world, the world he starting today through Dec. 13. made possible with the support of observes around his rural 
The exhibition will open with a the Indiana Arts Commission, The home/studio. reception and award presentation National Endowment of the Arts and tonight at 7. the Michiana Arts and Sciences Meuninck will be present at the 
Council, Inc. reception marking the opening of 
The juror for the exhibition is his show at Saint Mary's tonight from Rudy Pozzatti, distinguished profes­In the Hammmes Gallery, potter 7to9. sor of Printmaking at Indiana Thomas Meuninck will present Although best known for his University-Bloomington. His prints, "Spheres and Platters." An area art­ceramics, his drawings have also paintings and sculptures are in­ist, Meuninck's home/studio is in won honors. Meuninck has exhib­cluded in over 200 public collec­Walkerton, Indiana. He taught ited his work in many one-man tions and he has had more than 300 ceramics at Saint Mary's from 1974 shows, most recently at the Top one-man and group shows. Pozzatti to 1978. Brass Gallery, Watertower Place in has been a visiting artist or artist in At the Saint Mary's show, Chicago in 1983. His work is in the residence at museums and univer­Meuninck will be exhibiting large permanent collection ofthe Associa­
I sities from Canada to Louisiana. ceramic forms extraordinary for tion of Universities and Colleges in ' Artists within a 100-mile radius of their compatibility of design and Washington, D.C. 
·~ 
SENIOR CLASS TRIP 1985 
Chairman applications are now available in the Student Activities office, 1st Floor LaFortune. 
HURRY IN AND GET YOURS! 
Applications due Friday, November 16 
·~ 

Student Dance Concert november 15 & 16 

the dance studio regina hall G3~6,0o.._ lower level '~>'\ 
[HEA.T~ 
~ 

BANKING••• ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours • Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ source 
Join Michiana's 1st Team ~Bank for unsurpa~sed banking service! Member F.D.I.C. 



SENIORS TAKE A CHANCE Learn, Grow, Give and Love 
for more info: 

Mary Ann Roemer 
M.J. Murray Center for Social Associate Office Concerns 239-5521 "239-7949 
(' 

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
li============= Application Deadline-February 1st 

The Broadway Theatre League Presents 
"THE BEST PLAY OF THE SEASON! 
IT WILL BECOME ACLASSIC.~~~~'"..·".YP"' 
Morris Civic Auditorium-South Bend FRI. & SAT., Nov. 30 & Dec. 1-8 p.m. (E.S.T.) Ticketa: ~$17.50 $13.50$9.50 
SOLDOliT Box Office Open Daily (Except Sun.) 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Telephone (219) 284-9190 M..terCarcl & Viu Accepted • Group & Student DiM:ount. 
~, L
The Broad';,~~!l!~:tre eague 
• South Bend, IN 46624 
Restaurant Hei~ 

York Steak House. known for quality menu selections and outstanding service is currently seeking individuals to staff our restaurant. 
• 
CASHIERS 

• 
FOOD PREPARERS 

• 
DISHWASHERS 

• 
HOSTS/HOSTESSES 

• 
BUS PERSONS 

• 
LINE SERVERS 

• 
BROILER CHEFS 

• 
EXECUTIVE HOSTS/ HOSTESSES Reliable. energetic individuals w•ll be offered the opportunity to work in a fast­paced, exciting environment. We offer flexible part-time schedules Hours to suit 


your needs Please apply In person Monday through Thursday, 2~ PM at the: 
UNIVERSITY PARK RESTAURANT Ask for the General Manager. No phone calls please. 
York Steak House Is an equal opportunity employer M/F/H. 
~ ® aSubstdlary or ~neral Mtlls 

-----~---­


Larry Williams 
Injuries end hopes for excellent season 
Mike Golic 
N D tri-captai n 
ByJOE BRUNETTI 
Sports Writer 

For college athletes, their senior season is always supposed to be something special. It should be a season full ofvictories and injury-free play. 'That is what every senior athlete would like. For a football player, a perfect senior year would be capped off by a national champion­ship. 
However, for Notre Dame guard Larry Williams this year hasn't come close to being a perfect senior season. 
It has hardly been a season full ofvictories that will lead to a national championship for the Irish. To make matters worse, Williams has been hampered constantly by ligament problems in his ankle and knee that have prevented him from playing the way he would like to. 
For Williams the '84 season just hasn't lived up to his expectations. 
"I didn't think that I would get hurt at all (this year). I thought that I would put in a good solid year and just let the chips fall where they may," says the Califronia resident. "As it has turned out I haven't played as much as I wanted to or practiced as much as I should have." 
Not only have Williams' personal expectations not been fulfilled, but his expectations for the team have also been fruitless. "My expectations going into this season were for a national championship," says the American Studies major. "I expected nothing but the best (for this team). I thought we were doing it. We had all the tools. I thought we had the spirit behind it too. It (this season) was an incredible disappointment. When you see that many injuries, everyone gets a little down. I guess everyone felt a little sorry for themselves for a while, too. 
Williams attributes several things to the team's falling short ofhis expectations. "The injuries were a major pan, but we also got down on ourselves. We started making mistakes that we made as freshman or sop­homores," he explains. "A great team would make their own breaks. We had too many mental breakdowns to be a great team." 
Mike Golic's final game in home jersey also brings to end famous family line 
BymERON ROBERTS worse. Finally, the refsaw me amd told me to get off Sports Writer the field. I thought it was just a deep bruise, but I guess I tore some muscles and they haven't had a chance to 
For Mike Golic, his last game at Notre Dame Stadium completely heal. 1be doctor said all I need is two means more to him than most ofthe other senior weeks with no hitting and it'll be healed." members of the Fighting Irish football team. It ends the The injury meant that it was time for the 6-5, long association ofthe Golic family with the Notte 257-pound Golic to reassess his personal goals for the Dame gridiron. season. Before the season he had planned to improve 
From a personal viewpoint, the youngest ofthe on his honorable-mention selection on the 1983 Golic brothers has had a rough senior season that AssociatedPress All-America team. "I just want to play started with the promise ofmuch success, but will end the best I can," relates Golic. "Before the season I had with only a portion ofthat expectation fulfilled. aspirations ofbeing an all-American. With the injury, I 
Ashoulder injury in the spring kept Golic out of can't reach that goal. Now I want to get through the spring workouts, but, by the time fall practice began, season." the defensive captain was ready for some action. "My The limitations he had on the use of his shoulder spring injury was bad because I couldn't be out also affected him mentally, as well as physically. practicing with the new coach," says the Willowick, "When I was on the field playing injured, it was the Ohio, native. "So, when we got here in the fall, I was a first time I knew I couldn't do certain things. It's a little behind on that." horrible feeling." 
But everything went well in preparation for the season opener against Purdue in the Hoosier Dome -see GOLIC, page 12 Golic had adjusted well to his coach, defensive end and outside linebacker coach Bishop Harris, and the shoulder was ready to go. However, for the second time, misfortune struck the outside linebacking position ofthe Irish ­Mike Larkin -as Golic sustained a deep shoulder bruise, or so he thought, ofhis other shoulder. 
"In the Purdue game, my shoulder felt bad, but I thought I could work it out," Golic recalls. "It loosened up, so I returned in the second half, but every time I did some hitting, it felt 

Williams entered the season as a highly-touted lineman that was selected to many preseason all­America teams, but after an injury-plagued season, Williams' name probably won't appear on any post­season all-America teams. "I really don't care (about being picked as an all-American), but being injured has just about demolished my chances," comments the 276-pounder. "That doesn't bother me as much as our record and that my ability to perform has been shot to heck." 
The injuries to his ankle and knee have forced the captain to miss most ofthe practices during the week and this has also affected his leadership capabilities. "Being injured has made it difficult for me to be a leader because I'm not real vocal," comments Williams. "I try to lead by example and by not being on the field in practice to partcipate in drills takes away from my leadership role." 
In fact, Williams' practice time has been so limited that from the time ofhis initial ankle injury in the Purdue game until the Air Force game he only practiced two days during that five-week period. However, since the week ofthe South Carolina game the senior has been able to practice every day. 
"Its a weird feeling to go out on Saturday and play without practicing. My timing is off and I haven't played like I should," says Williams. "It has really taken away from my skills." 
Since Williams' return to the practice field the week ofSouth Carolina, the offensive line has seen great improvement over previous performances, and the running game has also come to life. "On the whole, our offensive line play hasn't been good. We are a veteran group that has been working together for a long time. We missed assignments," says Williams. "After South Carolina, we got our confidence back and got back to our old ways." 
The renewed life of the offensive line has definitely helped tailback Allen Pinkett who has had three 
see WILLIAMS, page 13 

lnsb Extra 

Bouncing back 
Doug Strang comes off bench to sh_ut up critics 
By GREG LODER 
Sports Writer 
Penn State Daily Collegian 
Slowly and all alone at midfield, he walked to the sideline with his head hung low. He had just made a statement to more than 85,000 people and a regional television audience in the only and best way he knew how. 
At the other end of the field in the south end zone, his teammates were celebrating Herb Bellamy's 42-yard touchdown catch, but there at midfield the person who threw the ball was celebrating deep down inside. 
For Penn State quarterback Doug Strang, the 1984 season has been a lonely one at certain times. After being benched because of his inability to move the Lion offense in the West Virginia game, and not getting the start against Boston College two weeks ago; it was unclear if the senior would see much time running the Penn State offense ever again. 

But when Strang delivered the ball to Bellamy, a pass that was misjudged by a Boston College defender, the Linwood, N.J., native overcame numerous barriers only he knew could be knocked down. 
And when the quarterback, who led the Lions to a wild 37-30 win over then-No. 9 Boston College, was mobbed by reporters after the game, again he was making statements the best way he knew how. 
"I believed I was going to come back and nobody can tell me different that I can't go out there and play quarterback," a quiet Strang said. 
In the middle ofthe week before the game with the Eagles, Penn State Head Coach Joe Paterno made a move toward the future when he decided to start sophomore John Shaffer against Boston College. Shaffer, who played for Notre Dame's Gerry Faust at Moeller High School in Cincinnati, Ohio, had a superb game in the loss to West Virginia and this season has thrown for 385 yards while completing 29 ofhis 68 passes. 
When Strang replaced Shaffer at the end of the first quarter against the Eagles, he was greeted with a chorus ofboos from fans who remembered a 6-0 shutout loss to Alabama and a three-point offensive performance against Texas. 
Paterno's move to Strang was forced by a slight concussion that Shaffer suffered in the first quarter, which left him without peripheral vision in the left eye. Paterno said Strang was probably the right choice. 
"I was glad to see him have such a good game," Paterno said. 
{/ 
).f
. 
/./ 
, I 
,I 
I 
II 
·r, 
I' 
Doug Strang PSU quarterback 
"With all the blitzing B.C. was doing and all that pressure they were putting on the quarterback, we felt in the back of our minds that he may have to be the guy to get us out of it." 
The boos continued in the B.C. game when Strang missed on his first four passes. But with 7:38 remaining in the half, Strang connected on the first Penn State completion of the day for the touchdown to Bellamy. The boos subsided, but, for the quarterback methodically heading for the sideline, the criticism was all but forgotten. 
"I'm not going to stoop down to anybody's level and say they weren't fair," Strang said. "I'm not going to say anything back. They can say anything they want, but I know deep down inside and the team knows inside what the truth is." 
Flanker Rocky Washington, who has caught one ofStrang's five touchdown passes this year, is one who has a lot of confidence in Strang. "I've been saying all year long that Doug Strang is a good quarterback." the senior from Beaver Falls, Pa., says. "It seems that everyone is bandwagon-jumping. Ifhe's doing good they love him, and if he's doing bad they hate him. He's a good quarterback and sometimes you have to stay with someone like that." 
Center Nick Haden said being benched was a tough thing for 
Strang to handle. ''I'm sure he was a little bit bummed out about 
what happened, but the thing is, Doug's a winner," Haden said. "I 
told him, 'Hey, just keep your head up.' I knew he was going to be 
in there, I just had a gut feeling." 
All season long, Paterno and his teammates have been loyal to 
Strang. Paterno cites inexperienced wideouts and an injury to 
tailback D.J. Dozier as "tough circumstances" for anyone. 
But with all the support, Strang said he had to realize his day was not over when he was benched. "I had to approach it like I was going to play," Strang said. "I didn't want john to get hurt or anything bad to happen to him, but I was hoping some way, somehow, I was going to get a chance to play again. 
"Hopefully I proved to myself that I'm a winner. I might not go out and have the most awesome stats, but I think I proved that we can bring Penn State's offense and we can score somehow, some way." 
Statistically this season, Strang has posted numbers that are far from his 18 touchdowns and nearly 2,000 passing yards from last year. He has completed 54 of 138 passes for 783 yards and eight touchdowns and five interceptions. 
The one statistic that is an improvement for Strang is his 245 rushing yards, with 52 of those yards coming against Boston College. Many of the runs against the Eagles were for key first 
While it has been an up-and-down season for Strang, the senior remains confident going into Saturday's game with Notre Dame, which Paterno has announced he will start. "I really hope it can be an example that you're not down-and-out until you think you're down-and-out," he said. "People put you down and people talk behind your back, but you're not done as a football player until you think you are." 
----------------------~~~~~============ 
continued from page 11 
Harris was in quite a bind after losing Golic but the injury affected the defense less than expected. "Of course it hurts to lose a player of his caliber, but it also has allowed some players to progress because of the roles they had to perform early in the season. I'm proud of how he has responded to his injury. He has been a positive influence on the other members ofthe defense." 
Golic knows that he has to put the injury behind him and try not to let it affect his performance. "It's hard to forget an injury, but I have to put it aside because I'm a captain and I can't let down the team. That's what it is to he a competitor." 
At the end of the I983 season, Golic experienced what he calls "one of my greatest honors." He was named the defensive captain for the 1984 season. The management major has his own idea of what he should do in his role. "For me, to have good communication and to be open is what my role is," Golic states. "We don't need dissention between the players and coaches. I also think that a captain should be some­what ofa motivator. Ifthe defense gives up a big play, I feel it's my job to get us fired up again and to tell the players not to worry about it. I try to lead by example and to keep people thinking about doing the best job they can. I must admit that it was difficult when I wasn't out there.'' 
"Mike is excellent player, especially considering the amount of adversity that he has experienced this season," Harris says. "He's done a super job ofhandling the responsibility ofbeing captain, also." 
Mike's older brother Bob also had the honor of being a captain for Notre Dame, leading the 1978 Irish. But all of the members of the Golic family shun comparison. "We never have compared ourselves to the other. We've all had different styles," Golic notes. "Ifanything, we help each other out, like Bobby and I working out together over the summer." 
The youngest Golic has benefitted from the fact that his older brothers Bob and Greg preceded him at Notre Dame. "I saw Notre Dame from two perspectives," he says. "I came up for Bobby's games 
when I was in the seventh grade. I was in awe of great 
players like Willie Fry and Ross Browner. When Greg 
began to play here, I was a senior in high school, so I 
thought about the players as people who were more 
like me because they were closer in age. 
"Through those six years, even though I looked at 
the football program the most, I saw that there was so 
much more to Notre Dame than football. When it 
came down to making a decision. There really wasn't a 
choice for me." 
There was a great deal ofoutside pressure for Mike to fill the shoes of Bob, the second-leading tackler in Irish history. The basis for comparison was obvious. Mike even wore the same jersey number-55. "I'm not trying to fill anybody's shoes," states the Notre Dame senior. "The reason I came here is because I was fortunate enough to be led by a father who played football. He knows that football is just a shot in the dark, and after a career of maybe ten years, which is really long these days, you have to have a good 
education to be able to work for you. 
''I'll always rememberJoe Restic talking about how academics and athletics are mixed at Notre Dame better than anywhere else in the country. My parents taught us that even after football is over, you've still got 50 years of your life left." 
Another one of the high points in Mike's career was the Michigan State game last season. "It was really exciting for both Greg and me in the Michigan State game," Mike states, "because we were both starting at the same time. It was the first time that Greg has started. Greg's probably the hardest worker of us three, because he didn't have all ofthe physical talent Bobby and I had." 
Mike also used his physical talent when he com­peted for the Notre Dame wrestling team. In the past two years, he has performed well for the Irish in the heavyweight division. His record for two years stands at 38-6. ''I'd like to wrestle this season. I think wres­tling has helped out football for me," Golic says. "It has 
PENN STATE 

November 16, 1984-page 12 
Graduati 
The following Ir in their tina 
Joe Bars Mark Bavaro Brian Behmer Mark Brooks Joe Fazio Robbie Finnegan Mike Gann Mike Golic Ricky Gray Scott Grooms Joe Howard 

Larry, 
lnsb Extra 

I •
1ng sen1ors 
'"ish will be playing ll home game: 
Joe Johnson Mike Kelley Kevin Kelly Dave Machtolf Tony Piccin Mike Richerson Tom Roggeman Chris Smith Jay Underwood Mike Viracola Jerry Weinle 

Williams 
• • • Golic 

given me better agility and balance. When you're out there, it's just you against the other guy, either you win or you lose, all by yourself. That takes a lot ofdis­cipline. But, in football, there are ten other guys out there to back you up." 
The thing that might keep him off the wrestling mats, though, is the fact that he is interested in playing football in the professional ranks and doesn't want to hurt himself again. "I would definitely like to play pro football," Mike says. "Pro is quite a bit different from college. They pick you, instead of you picking them. I hope I play until the fun ends, but because the type of sport football is, I'd think it would be hard to play if you didn't like what you were doing." 
'Ibe fun in football for the Notre Dame defensive captain will not end with his last home game under the Golden Dome. But it does bring to an end the line of Golics playing in Notre Dame Stadium. 
PENN STATE 
November 16, 1984 -page 13 
Taming the Lions 
Healthier Irish look for consistency against PSU 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 

Football returns to Notre Dame Stadium Saturday as the Nittany 
lions ofPenn State will take on the Irish at 12:20 p.m. EST in Notre 
Dame's final home appearence of the 1984 season. 
For the 5-4 Irish it is a chance to win their third straight game, 
and also an opportunity to snap a three-game home losing streak 
and a three-game skid against joe Paterno's Nittany Uons. For Penn 
State, 6-3, Saturday's game is an opportunity to establish some 
consistency, coming off a big 37-30 win over Boston College. 
This game figures to be particularly hard-fought because both 
teams have had an extra week to prepare, as well as recuperate 
from injuries. 

"The games we've played with Penn State the last few years have 
been great ones for the fans, even though we haven't won any of 
them," says Irish Head Coach Gerry Faust. "With both teams having 
an extra week to get ready and to get some injured people back, 
there's no reason to think this one won't be in that same league. 
Obviously, this is a big game for both teams, and I'm sure that 
intensity will be reflected. Penn State is coming offa big win over 
Boston College, and I'm sure they would like to carry that 
momentum over against us. We certainly didn't play well against 
Navy, but we did win and we've won two in a row. Ifwe eliminate 
the errors and play the way we're capable ofplaying, we can 
accomplish a lot in these last two games. 
"It means an awful lot to us to get healthy with the week off. We expect to have (flanker) Milt jackson, (cornerback) Troy Wilson, (tailback) Alonzo Jefferson, (linebacker) Mike Kovaleski, and (guard) Larry Williams all back. We won't know about (tight end) Mark Bavaro until later, plus there's a possibility either (linebacker) Tony Furjanic or (tackle) Ron Plantz might have a chance to get back in there. It's the last home game for the seniors and we'd like to make it a special one for them, especially considering we haven't played very well here at home this year so far." 
Penn State's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense: 
The Nittany Lions have done some shuffling at the quarterback position this season. Senior Doug Strang had the starting job for most of the season, but sophomoreJohn Shaffer, a product of Cincinnati's Moeller High School, got the nod against B.C. As things turned out, it was Strang who came off the bench impressively last week after Shaffer suffered a first-period concussion. Strang has not been outstanding-completing just 39 percent (54 of 138) ofhis passes, for 783 yards, five touchdowns and seven interceptions-but he has gotten the job done for most of the season. Nonetheless, Paterno has shown that he won't hesitate to go to Shaffer ifStrang i'i having problems. 
Penn State averages 345 yard~ per game, 208 of them on the ground. Tailback D.J. Dozier has come back from an early-season groin injury in fine style, breaking the 100-yard barrier in each of his last three games. In six games this season, the sophomore has carried 102 times for 578 yards and four touchdowns. joining 
Dozier in the Penn State backfield are fullback Steve Smith ( 67 
carries for 355 yards and five touchdowns, including 126 yards and 
two touchdowns against B.C.) and reserve tailback Tony Mumford 
( 97 carries for 434 yards and two touchdowns). 
Top receivers for the Nittany Uons are sophomore split end Herb Bellamy ( 16 catches for 306 yards and two touchdowns), flankers Eric Hamilton ( 14 receptions for 196 yards) and Rocky Washington ( 11 catches for 194 yards and a touchdown), and tight end Dean DiMidio (eight receptions for 122 yards and a touch­down). 
The Irish defense is coming off its best statistical outing of the season against Navy, allowing only 205 total yards. Overall the Irish are permitting 331 yards per game, 182 of them on the ground. 
Notre Dame will benefit from the week off in that leading tackler linebacker Mike Kovaleski (sprained wrist) and cornerback Troy Wilson (severe thigh bruise) are expected back off the injured list. 
Notre Dame's offense vs. Penn S1ate's defense: 
Frequent use of the double tight end formation has had an immediate effect on Notre Dame's statistics. The Irish averaged 290 yards per game through the first six weeks of the season, but that figure has jumped to 393 over the last three games. Notre Dame's possession, hall-control offense has averaged 14 more offensive plays per game over the last three games than it did through the first six. 
Tailback Allen Pinkett has keyed the resurgence of the offense, raising his season stats to 818 yards on 214 carries, with 12 
touchdowns. Bothered early in the season by the after-effects ofa 
spring ankle injury, Pinkett has come back to run for over 160 
yards in each ofhis last two games. 
"There's no question we've been a lot more productive the last 
three games," says Faust. "Part of it has been getting our lineup 
healthy, especially people like Larry Williams. But part ofit has 
been getting off the ball better and being able to run the ball with 
greater success. Pinkett has looked like the Pinkett ofold over the 
last three games, and that has made a difference." 
Quarterback Steve Beuerlein has completed 60 percent ( 113 of 
178) ofhis passes this season, for I,53 1 yards and six touchdowns, a pace that would set a school record for completion percentage. But the sophomore has has thrown 16 interceptions in eight games. 
Notre Dame's top two receivers will be hampered by injuries 
Saturday. Junior tight end Mark Bavaro ( 27 catches for 313 yards 
and one touchdown) is questionable for the game, having suffered 
knee ligament damage against Navy. Junior flanker Milt jackson ( 22 
receptions for 275 yards) should be ready Saturday, coming off an 
bruised collarbone suffered against LSU. 
Penn State's defense is allowing 3 3 5 yards per game, 130 of them 
on the ground. That represents a big improvement over last year, 
when the Nittany Lions gave up 432 yards per contest. 
The pass rush has produced 16 sacks for Penn State so far, with junior defensive end Bob White the leader with six sacks. Top tacklers for the Nittany lions are safety Ray Isom ( 61 stops), outside linebacker Shane Conlan (58), halfback Lance Hamilton (56), and inside linebacker Rogers Alexander (52). 
The kicking games: 
Both teams have placekickers who have proven that they can come through when the game is on the line. Navy's Nick Gancitano, a senior, has made 9 of 13 field goal attempts this season, and is 3 7 -of-48 for his career. For the Irish, sophomoreJohn Carney has been consistently accurate, hitting on 12 of 14 field goal tries, including the 44-yarder that won the Navy game. 
The Irish have a slight edge in the punting department, as senior Mike Viracola has posted an impressive 41-yard average this season, as compared to Penn State'sJohn Bruno, who has a 36-yard average. 
The key to the game: 
Consistency has been Notre Dame's goal all season long, and lately the defense has come closer to achieving that goal than has the offense. The Irish offense pulled out a victory over Navy by turning it on for the last four minutes, after stalling for most of the second and third quarters. The offense can ill afford a similar performance against Penn State -it will have to put together several scoring drives in the early going in order to establish some momentum. 
Joe Johnson ND tri-captain 

continued from page 11 
consecutive 1 00-yard games starting with the South Carolina game. 
Although the '84 season has not lived up to Williams' expectations in the win-loss cloumn and in the amount of playing time, he hasn't found the season a total disappoint­ment. "In the aspect of wins and losses, this season has been a disappointment, bm I'm really enjoying myself though," reflects Williams. "Our team is great and I feel great everytime 1go over there (the ACC). In the aspect ofwins and losses I'm bummed out, but ten years down the road, it is not going to make any difference what out record was." 
Williams is entering possibly the final two weeks of his career at Notre Dame, and it has become an emotional time for the 6-6 guard. 
"It's really a weird feeling (getting to play your last home game). All the seniors before you talk about it, but you never really feel it or experience it until its your turn," says 
• • • Williams 
Williams. "It's really a depressing feeling knowing that your home for the last four years will be history. I don't know if I'm ready for it to be history." 
The final game of the season against Southern Cal may be Williams' last game for the Irish, and it is something he isn't really looking forward to. "Playing USC will be a real emotional game for me just like Penn State is going to be," says Williams. "It's my last chance to put on a Notre Dame uniform. It's really a depressing thing to think abom right now. I don't know ifI'm ready for it." 
Although Williams hasn't had the ideal senior year full of victories and a national championship, the senior captain will always find his career at Notre Dame a fond memory. ''I'll look back on my football career in 1 0 or 1 5 years and be very happy with it," says Williams. "I'm disappointed with our win-loss record, but I still feel I made the right choice when I decided to come to Notre Dame. I've gotten to play three full years and I've had a great time doing it." 

-= ~~ 
PENN STATE 
:1 
I November 16. 1984-page 14
: i I 
lnsh Extra
~ 
' \ \ 
i 
' 
'' 
' 
' 
! 
NOTRE DAME VS. PENN STATE 

Last 

THE STATISTICSTHE GAME 
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Penn State Nittany Uons 
TEAM STATISTICS NO OPP SCORING GTO PA R·PA S FG TP 
Notre Dame Stadium ( 59,075) 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 2916 2985 Pinkett 913 o-o o-o o o-o 78
SITE: 

Year's
12:20 EST; Saturday, Nov. 17, 1984 
Total Plays 634 631 Carney 9 0 19-19 0-0 0 12-14 55
TIME: 

Yards per Play 4.6 4.7 Jackson 8 4 o-o o-o o o-o 24
ESPN Uve National Telecast'IV-RADIO: 
Yards per Game 324.0 331.7 Brooks 9 3 o-o o-o o o-o 18
Jim Thacker and Ed Biles 
PENALTIES-YARDS 48-383 47-386 Jefferson 6 2 0-0 1-1 o o-o 14 
FUMBLES-LOST 30-12 22-14 Ward 7 1 o-o o-o o o-o 6
Game
WNDU-TV(Ch. 16) 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 175 170 Bavaro 9 1 0-0 o-o o o-o 6
Jeffjeffers and jack Nolan 
By Rushing 82 95 Bauerlein 8 1 0-0 o-o o o-o 6 
November 12,1183 

ByPassing 84 67 Chura 1 0 1-1 o-o o 1-1 4
Notre Dame 0 10 7 13 30
TCS/Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 
By Penalty 9 8 Team 9 0 0-0 Q-3 1 0-0 2
Penn State 3 10 7 14 34
Harry Kalas and George Connor 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 137-64 125-48 Howard s o o-o 1-00 0-0 2 PSU -Gancitano 37 kick 
Scoring 

Percentage .467 .384 VonWyl 1 0 1-1 o-o o o-o 1 Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network 
POSSESSION TIME 265:56 274:04 PSU -Jackson 11 pass from Strang (Gancitano ND -Johnston 39 kick 
Minutes per Game 29:33 30:27 ND 9 25 21-21 2-4 1 13-15216 OPP 9 25 17-19 4-6 1 7-12198
Tony Roberts, Pat Sheridan, Luther Bradley 
WNDU-AM 1500 
Pinkett 17 run (Johnston kick) Gancitano 40 kick 
RUSHING G NO YOS AVG TD LG ND-Pinkett 16 run (Johnston kick) 
..........................................................................................................................................
235 stations nationally 

RECEIVING G NO YOS AVG TD LG
-Williams 46 pass from Strang (Gancitano 
Pinkett 9 214 818 3.8 12 20 
Smith 9 49 201 4.1 0 15 -------------------
Bavaro 9 27 313 11.6 1 24
SERIES: Notre Dame 4, Penn State 3, ties 1 Pinkett 1 run (Johnston kick) 
Brooks 9 28 107 3.8 3 12 
-Jackson 29 pass from Strang (Gancitano 
Jackson 8 22 275 12.5 4 31
LAST MEETING: November 12, 1983 
Jefferson 6 30 95 3.2 2 10 Brown 9 21 261 12.4 0 29
Flemons 4 12 33 2.7 0 15
Penn State 34, Notre Dame 30 NO-Pinkett 1 run (conversion failed) 
Pinkett 9 18 221 12.3 1 40
Monahan 8 2 17 8.5 0 10
PSU -Strang 8 run (Gancitano kick) 

Gray 9 11 133 12.1 0 25
NO PSU 
Miller 2 1 13 13.0 0 13
RANKINGS: Notre Dame unranked, Penn State unranked 
Howard 9 10 161 16.1 0 26
First downs 24 26 
DeHueck 1 3 11 3.7 0 6 
Smith 9 7 56 8.0 0 18
TICKETS: Game is sold out Rushing attempts 52 44 
Starns 8 1 5 5.0 0 5 
Ward 7 5 178 35.6 1 74
Net Yards Rushing 269 162 
Machtolf 1 2 3 1.5 0 2
Net Yards Passing 257 274 
Jefferson 6 3 40 13.3 0 27
Carter 1 2 1 0.5 0 1
Passes romp-attempted 14-20 16-24 
Williams 6 2 17 8.5 0 12
Jackson 8 1 -4 -4.0 0 -4
Had intercepted 0 0 
Miller 2 1 15 15.0 0 15
Grooms 2 13 -21 -1.6 0 7
Total Net Yards 526 436 
Brooks 9 1 13 13.0 0 13
THE SCHEDULE 
Fumbles-lost 3-0 2-1 
Bauerlein 8 48 -59 -1.2 0 18 Cusack 9 1 7 7.0 0 7
Penalties-yards 3-25 0-0 
Bauerlein 8 6 6.0 1 6
Punts-average 4-33 2·50.5 
NOTREOAME 9 406 1220 3.0 17 20
NOTRE DAME PENN~TATE lndlvlduel L.eeden 
OPPONENTS 3.8 16 669 435 1639 NOTRE DAME 9 130 1696 13.0 8 74
RUSHING-Notre Dame: Pinkett 36·217; Smith 7­
SEPT. 8lost to Purdue, 23-21 SEPT. 8 def. Rutgers, 1 5-12 
22; Francisco3-13; Brooks 2-15; Beuer1ein4-2; Penn 
OPPONENTS 9 114 1346 11.8 9 50
SEPT. 15 def. Mich. St., 24-20 SEPT. 1 5 def. Iowa, 20-1 7 State: Dozier 21·94: Williams 15-61; Strang 6-11: 
DEFENSE TMTL-YOS PBU FA BKMumford 1-2; Jackson 1-6; 
SEPT. 22 def. Colorado, 55-14 SEPT. 22 def. Wi. & Mary, 56-18 
PASSING -Notre Dame: Beuer1em 14-20-0.257;SEPT. 29 def. Missouri. 16-14 SEPT. 29lost to Texas, 28-3 Penn State: Strang 16-24-0,274: 
Kovaleski 86 2-4 2 0 0 PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YOS TO OCT. 6 lost to Miami, 31-13 OCT. 6 def. Maryland, 25-24 RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Jackson 4-118; Bavaro 
Banks 56 4-11 0 0 0 s-n: Howard 2-40; Smith 2-25; Pinkett 1·(-3); Penn 
52 0-0 1 0 0 Bauerlein 8 187 113 .604 161531 6
OCT. 13 lost to Air Force, 21-7 OCT. 13 lost to Alabama, 6-0 
State: Jackson 7-101; Williams 3-65; Dimidio 2-56; 
Furjanic 48 0-0 1 0 0 Grooms 2 38 14 .368 1 134 1
OCT. 20 lost to S. Caro., 36-32 OCT. 20 def. Syracuse, 21-3 Baugh 2-31; Dozier 2-21; 
Ballage 48 0-0 4 1 0 Pinkett 9 2 2 1.000 0 30 1 OCT. 27 def. L.S.U., 30-22 OCT. 27lost toW. Va., 17-14 
Gann 46 15-110 2 4 0 Viracola 9 1 1 1.000 0 1 0 Attendance -85,899 
42 1-1 0 1 0 Andrysiak 0 0 .000 0 0 0 Kleine 41 10-36 0 2 0
NOV. 3 def. Navy, 18-17 NOV. 3 def. Bost. Coli., 37-30 
NOV.17PENNSTATE NOV. 17 at Notre Dame 
0-0 2 1 0 ND 9 228 130 .570 17 1696 8
NOV. 24 at Southern Cal 

2-5 0 0 1 OPP 9 196 114 .582 11 1346 9 


PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS(?) 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked at the discretion of the sports editor and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major col­lege football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the underdog points. Home team is in CAPS. 

OHIO STATE over Michigan by 10 BOSTON COLLEGE over Syracuse by 8. 5 Wisconsin over MICHIGAN STATE by 1 Virginia over NORTH CAROUNA by 2.5 HARVARD over Yale by 6 South Carolina over NAVY by 13.5 Florida over KENTIJCKY by 8.5 AUBURN over Georgia by 6. 5 NEBRASKA over Oklahoma by 6 Texas over TEXAS CHRISTIAN by 1.5 Southern Cal over UCLA by 3. 5 PURDUE over Indiana by 17.5 Washington over WASHINGTON STATE by 3.5 Penn State over NOTRE DAME by 1.5 

Larry Burke  Mike Sullivan  Ed Domansky  Jeff Blumb  Theron Roberts  Lefty Smith  Dan Moran  
Sports Writer  Sports Editor  Sports Writer  Asst. Sports Editor  Sports Writer  Guest Celebrity  Random Student  
53-54-2  49-58-2  49-58·2  47·60-2  47-60-2  48-59-2  59-48·2  
.495  .459  .459  .440  .440  .450  .550  
(last week ­ 9-5)  (last week-7-7)  
Wolverines  Wolverines  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  Buckeyes  
Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  Eagles  Orangemen  Eagles  Eagles  
Badgers  Spartans  Badgers  Badgers  Spartans  Spartans  Spartans  
Wahoos  Heels  Heels  Wahoos  Wahoos  Wahoos  Heels  
Elis  Crimson  Crimson  Elis  Elis  Crimson  Crimson  
Middies  Middies  Middies  Middies  Gamecocks  Middies  Middies  
Gators  Gators  Wildcats  Gators  Gators  Gators  Gators  
Bulldogs  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  Tigers  Bulldogs  
Sooners  Sooners  Cornhuskers  Cornhuskers  Cornhuskers  Cornhuskers  Sooners  
Longhorns  Longhorns  Frogs  Frogs  Longhorns  Frogs  Longhorns  
Bruins  Bruins  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  Trojans  
Hoosiers  Boilers  Hoosiers  Hoosiers  Boilers  Hoosiers  Boilers  
Huskies  Cougars  Huskies  Huskies  Cougars  Huskies  Huskies  
Uons  Uons  Irish  Uons  Irish  Irish  Irish  

~­
............. 
··..· 

Accent Friday, November 16, 1984 page 15 

A ttention "progressive music" 1'\Jovers and pop fans alike! The Fixx are here and available for your audio/visual pleasure. Yes, the creators ofthe popular songs "One Thing Leads to An­other," "Stand or Fall," "Saved by Zero," "Deeper and Deeper" and "Are We Ourselves?" are making a stop in South Bend for one concert, tonight at the Notre Dame Athletic and Convocation Center. Showtime is 8 PM. Tickets are $1 0 and S l 1, available at either the SAB Record Store or at the ACC Box Office, and at the door. 
Increasingly popular on the 

"new music" circuit, the Fixx 
have succeeded on the basis of 
their fine musicianship and 
carefully-crafted lyrics. Their 
style is a fusion ofsynth-rock 
intertwined with funk roots, and 
the result is a sound that, even 
today, is unique. 
American radio has been 

graced with several of the Fixx's 
songs, most notably their top 
five smashes, "One Thing Leads 
to Another," "Saved by Zero," 
and their recent top 20 single, 
"Are We Ourselves?" Their al­
bums have fared well, too. Shuttered Room, their 1982 
debut LP, lasted nearly a year on 
the charts. It led the way to their 
platinum follow-up, Reach the Beach. 
Reach the Beach exposed the band to mass popularity. They were chosen to open for the Police on their 1983 Synchronici~y tour, and Mn' kept their videos in heavy rota­tion. 
This year, with the release of their third albumPhantoms, the Fixx have become headliners. Phantoms, according to lead singer Cy Cumin, is "about per­sonal visions I've had about iso­lation and society's rules, about the superficial public selfand the deeper emotional self. The new position we've found our­selves in because of the band's success gives us more confi­dence to delve into the emo­tions of the more private self." 
Cumin also explains one of the Fixx's aims regarding its audience: "We can show people that you don't have to cage your­selfaway -that you can show your deep-down feelings rather than expressing only what people want you to say. Ifyou could adopt that position on a semi-permanent basis, you'd be isolating others less." Whew! 
Along with Cumin, the Fixx consists ofguitaristjamie West­Oram, drummer Adam Woods, and Rupert Greenan on keyboards. Though not a full member yet, Danny K. Brown is playing bass for the tour. Their songs deal with such topics as nuclear war ("Red Skies"), the dangers ofconformity, and, in "Less Cities, More Moving People,·· the destruction of Beirut. 'The members ofFixx want to elevate their music to a higher intellectual plateau with­out losing its sense ofacces­sibility. So ifyou like the Fixx or would simply like to see a think­ing band with good intentions, get yourselffixxed up and head on over to the ACC. 
'Amadaeus' one ofthe screen's best-ever portrayals of genius 
Don Seymour 
features staff writer 
Movies 
The autumn has provided a 
.l welcome relieffrom the child­ish movies ofsummertime.The three months between summer and Christmas seem to be the only time when the film industry releases any serious films. We've already seen "Places in the Heart," "A Soldier's Story" and now "Amadeus," Milos Forman's screen adaptation ofPeter Schaeffer's stage play. Sporting a script by Schaeffer, the film success­fully captures the spirit ofthe play, although inevitable changes have been made. The film is one ofthe year's best. 
"Amadeus" is the story of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, told by Antonio Salieri, his chiefrival and court composer for the emperor. The story begins at night in Vienna where a very old Salieri, by his memories of Mozart, tries to com­mit suicide by slitting his throat. He is promptly locked in a sanitorium. 
Upon a visit by a priest, he tells us his story. flashback technique seems staler than the play, where Salieri talked to the audience while scenes changed behind him. The movie flows a bit slower, but the story is no less riveting. 
Salieri is in love with music. Pledging his industry and chastity, he makes a personal bargain with God that he will become a great musician. Through diligent work and moderate talent, he works his way to the post ofcourt composer for the Austrian emperor. His world is shaken when a young prodigy 

named Mozart comes to Vienna. This young man obviously pos­sesses gifts far beyond his own. 
In trying to outdo this upstart, Salieri recognizes his own mediocrity in the face of true genius. He feels betrayed by God for giving the talent he so wanted for himself to a repulsive ingrate. He burns to celebrate God's glory with music, but his pleading has done nothing. Only one thing fills his mind-revenge. Revenge on God for betraying him and revenge on Mozart for being so talented. Salieri takes up a war against God, and his objective is to destroy God's abom­inable creature, Mozart. 
Salieri finds every way he can to make life miserable for Mozart. Yet, he remains fascinated and stunned by the music ofthis man. When Mozart is forced by lack of tnoney to produce burlesque operas for commoners, Salieri is the only member ofthe emperor's circle to attend. ·when the court composer uses his influence to have Mozart's operas closed, he still attends every performance. Ironically, Mozart believes Salieri one ofhis best friends. 
Salieri finally kills Mozart, by working on the guilt associated with Mozart's dead father. He dis­guises himmselfin black and cum­missions a death Mass from Mozart. After Mozart collapses, Salieri takes dictation from the bed-ridden Mozart in order to complete the Mass on time. Mozart is tremen­dously grateful, but Salicri is merely helping to drive the object ofhis hatred to death. 
This scene is one of the screen's most successful portrayals ofgenius ever: Mozart, with no instrument, simply dictates and hums music for voices and an entire orchestra to a flustered Salieri. 
The performances here are com­mendable. Thomas Hulce, who, if my eyes do not deceive me, played Larry Kroger in "Animal House," plays Mozart brilliantly. His cease­less energy captivates the audience and his abrasive, braying laugh captures the qualities Salieri finds so repulsive in Mozart. L Murray Abraham does a competent job as Salieri. He has less to do than the character did on stage and he plays it low key -perhaps a little too low key -but it is by no means a bad performance. 
Other outstanding performances include the emperor, whose dry, understated delivery punctuates the film with laughs, and Mozart's wife. 
"Amadeus" is a movie about envy and mediocrity and genius and dissatisfaction amd self-hate. It also speculates about talent, about how those who want it most don't al­ways possess it. More themes than can be mentioned weave their way through this complex film. Chances are you'll come out ofthe theater affected in some way. 

Landesburg amuses O'Laughlin with dialects and success secrets 
by Margaret McCabe 
assistant features editor 
"Ah,Saint Mary's ... I haven't 
been here in a few weeks," 
was comedian Steve Landesburg's 
opening line ofhis performance at 
Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium 
last night. 

Landesburg, better known as Sargent Arthur Dietrich ofthe long running TV sitcom "Barney Miller," appeared before a nearly full house, comprised ofa surprisingly older crowd with only a few students in attendance. But the ages or inter­ests ofthe audience didn't matter to last night's act. 
Landesburg gave a humorous perspective on a wide variety of topics ranging from politics and sports to ethnic jokes and the lyrics ofsongs. "Country and western lyrics kill me," he comments. "all you need is something like, 'my woman left me and beat up my pig' or 'my girl's gone and my dog got hit by a diesel,' and you've sold two million records. 
"It seems they're (country sing­ers) always giving themselves awards,'' says Landesburg and con­tinues in a perfect Nashville accent, " '...and now for the best country and western song written on a Thursday.. .' " 
Landesburg's mastery ofa num­ber ofdialects contributed some of the more humorous moments to the act. Throughout the act, the comedian slipped easily into a Texan, Chinese, French, and even Russian accent.;..~'l missed the Rus­sians during the Olympics," Landes­burg adds, "especially the women ­
love 800 pound women." 
Afew celebrity impressions 
proved to be crowd pleasers. A 
special request was made by a 
member of the audience for Landes­
burg's specialty, Gregory Peck, an 
impression he did on one ofhis 
early episodes of"Barney Miller." 
Landesburg proved to be a well­seasoned performer when it comes to live audiences. He maintained a very casual and comfortable rap­port with the crowd as he sipped ice water and, towards the end of the act, asked the audience ifthey had questions or requests. As the crowd responded with laughter and applause, the comedian nodded and audibly mumbled, "good crowd, this is a great crowd." 
Landesburg spoke freely about his personal life. "I was a shy, quiet kid so my father thought I was nuts when I told him I wanted to go into show business. He was probably right." 
Landesburg spoke ofhis first appearances on "The Tonight Show," "The Mike Douglas Show,'' and an interview with Robert Frost. "I wore the same suit and used the same material for all of them,'' he chuckled. 
The star was even willing to talk about his love life, or at least his ex-love life, "I broke up with my girlfriend awhile ago," he reflects. "Whenever you break up with someone, you suddenly think every song on the radio is about you and your ex. 
"All the maybes and what-ifs start running through your head like 'maybe I shouldn't have thrown her down the stairs.' " Landesburg admitted to the audience that he missed "Barney Miller," "I espe­

I cially miss the money!" He's been traveling to colleges around the country doing the act but when people ask him what he does for a living he responds, "I pack and I fly. Seriously," he continues, "the shows are the fun part." Offstage, the comedian reveals even more. about what's behind the laughter. When asked if he thought he was much like his former charac­ter Dietrich, Landesburg responded, "I'm much smarter than he was, but you always try to make the character as much you as possi­ble." What does a celebrity like Steve Landesburg do in what little spare time he has? "I find enjoy­ment in taking off my clothes in strange places," he jokes, "Actually I really love sports, especially baseball." Do comedians have favorite comedians? Ofcourse, and Landesburg's isJohn Winters, "I'd like him to be in a movie that I'll be working on this spring." Landesburg has a few words of wisdom for students who want to break into show business, "You've got to keep acting. Do what ever you can to make yourselfgreat before you take that step into Holly­wood or New York. Don't think about money because there won't be any unless you make it big." What's ahead for Landesburg? In his immediate future there is a show in Grand Rapids tomorrow followed by a show in Chicago "Then I'll head for home and take a couple ofweeks off before I start planning for the movie." 

I ' i 
\ 
\ 
I 
I Accent
\ Friday, November 16, 1984-page 16 t I 
\ \ 
\ \ Why the hatred?
\ 
\ 
row on her mind, she asked me why
\ 
her loved ones were hated. The ~ 
Rev. Robert Griffin only answer I could offer was that ) they would never be hated by me. I 
features columnist was young, giving lip service to an idea. Maybe the seed was planted~ Letters to a lonely God then. Lately, I've felt that God has
\ 
been leading me into an Old Testa­
•MOVIES

ment experience, as a fresh way of
\ Forty years ago, while I was in ~as a sign for me to go home, full of meeting Him. Everything, upon Tonight, the Friday Night Film Series will present "The Meadow," \ an Italian film with English subtitles. In this story, a young Milan
high school, I had a summer job curiosity. I knew, without being reflection, becomes personalized in lawyer and would-be filmmaker journeys to Tuscany, where he
~ inspeoting gas refrigerators. Even as told, that Jewish parents wanted to the early memory ofthe woman comes under the spell of the countryside and a magical-looking< a simple job, it was more technical be on peaceful terms with every· representing a holy tradition. She
'· 
walled town. The film begins at 7:30 in the Annenburg Auditorium
\ than anything I could competently one. Their children never got into was as close as I came during World 
and admission will be S2. 50.
handle, because I was supposed to Catholic-Protestant arguments, or War II to the tragedy later called The Black Studies Program presents "Sugar Cane Alley" tonight atmake adjustments if the pilot flame other fights. Jewish homes were the Holocaust. Maybe, out of wish­7:30 in the library Auditorium. The film is the powerful andburned red instead ofblue. I prob­places of mystery which were ful thinking, I'm making her seem evocative story ofgrowing up black, poor and proud on the island ofably screwed up more refrigerators lovely to enter. It was a mystery to more important to me than she Martinique in the early 1930's. Admission is free. 
than I ever saved, but it was fun me why Hitler wanted to harm really was. The grace ofloving going into homes where I met nice Jews. Afew people said Hitler had a God's chosen people came into my •MUSIC people. The home I remember best point, as long as he didn't go too far, life early. I would like to date the A variety of music is in store for this weekend. Tonight the ever­wasJewish. I was on my hands and but I knew they were wrong. beginning of that love from the time popular Notre Dame Glee Club will present its Fall Concert at 8: 15 knees looking at a carbon deposit In the conversation with the the Kuvent, Mack, and lipmann in Washington Hall. when theJewish home-maker Jewish woman grieving over news, families were kind to a Protestant Also tonight, the SAB along with WVFI will present "The Fixx" at 8 asked: "Why do they hate Jews so or lack of news, from Europe, I lad. I would like to believe it was in the ACC. Tickets are available at ACC ticket outlets and at the SAB bad? Why do they want to hurt us made her a promise, which got confirmed on the day when I under­Record Store. so?" buried by time in the unconscious. I stood how really evil it was to be On Sunday at 4, the Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra will present 
This was in 1943, when World told her I would be nice toJewish anti-Semi tic. its Fall concert in the Annenberg Auditorium. The performance will War II was tearing up Europe. I people all my life, and try to keep include works by Haydn, Strauss, and Tchaikovski. Admission isfree. knew, as everyone knew, theJews them from being hurt. She had I wouldn't remind you again how •ART were being persecuted. I was aware brought me very close to a vision of importantJudaism has become in An exhibit by Tom Meuninck, "Spheres and Platters" will open ofChristians who expressed satis­suffering, and I wanted to show her my spiritual life, except that tonight today in conjunction with the Saint Mary's Regional Student Exhibi­faction that Hitler's minions were how sympathetic I was. She said: I went to a lecture by aJew from tion. The exhibits continue through Dec. 13 in the Hammes Gallery burning down synagogues and "Do you promise this?" I answered: Israel speaking on the peace move­of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. Gallery hours are 9:30-noon and 1-3 sendingJews to the concentration "With all my heart." She said: "You ment in his country. TheJews and p.m. on Monday thru Friday and 1-3 on Sunday. camps. So far as I can remember, are a very kind boy." I hoped she Palestinians should learn to live A mixed-media exhibition of photographic collages by Richard nobody then knew how savage the would continue thinking that if her together in peace, he said, sharing Gray begins on Sunday at the Snite Museum ofNotre Dame. persecutions were, though I think refrigerator stopped working. the land. They are the descendants "Renaissance Drawings from The Ambrosiana" will be on display we had an idea someJews were I can still point out the house of two brothers, Isaac and Ishmael, at the Snite until Dec. 30. This exhibition, organized by the Me(Jieval dying. Here I was, a Gentile, where the woman lived. In a year or born ofAbraham. Jacob the great Institute, includes 80 drawings selected from the Bibliotica working on a perfectly nice ice box two, I forgot the promise, which patriarch, before dying, blessed his Ambrosiana's collection in Milan, Italy. this woman trusted me with, prob­laid dormant at the bottom ofmy twelve sons to live in peace, and not Hours at the Snite are I 0 to 4 Tuesday through Friday; 1 to 4 p.m. ably destroying it before her eyes, mind for halfa lifetime. I wouldn't as rivals. I wanted to raise my hand on Saturdays and Sundays; and Thursday evenings from 4 to 8. being asked a tough question. She remember it now, if I were not to ask the speaker: "Doesn't such •NAZZ 
never told me specifically about hooked on readings inJudaism. pacifism, so beautiful to talk about, Tonight, the Irish will be pleased with the entertainment provided \ whom she wxorried, though she Struggling through the Essential go against the experience ofJewish byJohn Kennedy from 9·1. was very upset She kept asking: Talmud, I got to thinking ofmyself 
history, when the gentle jews Saturday, guitarist Greg Abbott will be featured from 9-1. "Why the ha ed?" I comforted her as a goy, spending an hour as a tended to end up as victims? Didn't 
•DANCE

the best I could because she was listener in aJewish kitchen, and it the Zionists come out ofthe 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Dance Theatre will present a Stu­
\ very tragic. I felt ashamed of the came back to me that long ago, I Holocaust telling each other: "No 
\ dent Dance Concert tonight at 8 in the Regina Hall Dance Studio at
\ anti-Semites I knew. The effects of had made an agreement. more shouldJews be Mr. Nice Saint Mary's. Admission is S I at the door.
anti-Semitism were visible in the None of our experiences are ever Guy'?" I was afraid of making a fool anguish ofthis human being who lost, they say. The poet Goethe died of myself in public. In learning •MASS showed me her sorrow. reciting a Latin poem which he Jewish lessons, it seems wiser to ask The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will 
TheJewish people I grew up near recalled from his school days. In the my questions in private. Anyway, I be: were always good to me as a child, Forties, theJews ofthe world were could guess he would point out the Father Walter Burghardt, S.J., at 5:15 mass (Saturday night vigil). inviting me to meals more strange weeping bitterly. In their history, difference between a just war and Father George Wiskirchen at 9 a.m.
\ 
\ and wonderful than anything I was the centuries are bound together by terrorism. I concentrated on the FatherJames Burtchaell at 10:30. served at home. They never men­the communal weeping and suffer­hostilities between the Catholics Father Stephen Gibson at 12:1 5. tioned religion to the Baptist boy. ing present in every generation. and Protestants in Ireland, until the 
•MISCELLANEOUS 
They never explained why the Once in my lifetime, a relative of temptation to ask questions went 
The Trivial Pursuit Marathon continues through to noon tomor­
rabbi came to give Hebrew lessons the Jews, who disappeared in years away. God must hate it when He row. Be sure to stop in at the Student Center ofLafortune to cheer on to the sons who were my class­when all the months were death· looks at the world and sees how the marathonists and maybe pick up a few bits of trivia. 
mates, though the rabbi's arrival bearing winter, had so much sor-badly brothers treat each other. 
'Just the Way You Are' could have been much more 
friend tries to make love to her one by shooting ski competitions, espe­lines, relationships and meaning.Stephen Thomas 
night but is bothered by her leg cially one particular female skier, As the film starts to lose sight of brace in the process. Within the who grows jealous ofOntkean's its story lines, it becomes more of a ,. features staff writer first 45 minutes ofthe film, these relationship with McNichol. corporate billboard. In the ski three male characters have exited What makes "just The Way You scenes, advertising ofpopular the film as fast as they came in. We Are" an unfulfilling movie is its brands ofski clothing and acces­
Movies 

never see them again in the movie. failure to capitalize on its own sories is blatant. It's something you learn to get used cinematic potential. The first thing 1'"'('1here's nothing worse than hopes will free her ofthe tomboy to. the film needs to do is decide what McNichol's character is the only
.1 seeing a film that "could have image she established on ABC's Meanwhile, McNichol has it's about. It starts out being about one that comes close to being been" -a film that had the possibility dramatic series "Family." Ontkeari decided she wants to do something Kristy's attitude toward her leg developed. When she speaks in a ofbeing something more than it is McNichol's "knight on shining different in her life. Her father, an brace. However, this story line soon quiet tone and is restrained, she is was. Throughout most of"Just the skis" whom she discovers on an average man who, for some reason, fizzles out, which is unfortunate convincing as an older female. One Way You Are" the same thought excursion into the Alps. has internati,.. tl connections in the because the film was handling it she starts to shout and make accusa­kept turning over in my mind, "This McNichol plays a young violinist music world, ••as made a booking quite well. The story then takes a tions, she regresses back to the movie has so much potential." who wears a leg brace. Given this for Kristy to do a solo performance sudden shift towards the impor­16-year-old tomboy of"Family." Others in the theatre apparently much, we might expect the film in France. This seems strange in tance ofKristy's marriage, until that Other characters are not really agreed. In fact, after the movie was would deal with McNichol's frustra­view ofthe fact that she can't get story line dssapears. characters at all, but character over, the guy in the next seat tion in the way people respond to any further than the Orchestra Pit We then follow Kristy to the Alps types. It's hard to feel for characters turned to me and said, "You know, her. lne film does handle this story in the United States. The booking is and the film becomes more ofa as undeveloped as the ones in this that movie had so much potential." line with sensitivity and humor for basically an excuse for the film to travelogue than a film. More and movie. Perhaps ifthings were 
"Just The Way You Are" is a about the first hour, but then turns provide us with some striking shots more characters enter the movie, thought out a little better before
.\ 
major studio release to appear sour. For example, McNichol and excellent views ofEurope's relationships form and questions they were thrown on the screen, nationwide at theatres today, star­encounters one man who takes a finest points, which turns out to be are raised. The film fails to handle the movie would have been more ring Kristy McNichol and Michael liking to her until he finds out she the saving grace ofthe film. what it has taken upon itself. It asks enjoyable. It had some interesting Ontkean. It is a film that constantly wears a brace. She also finds out the During her trip to the Alps, the viewer to deal with too many ideas amd beautiful camerawork in has the viewer wishing for what man she was supposed to marry is a McNichol discovers and falls in love things and remember too many its favor, but they never matured. could have been. The story is cen­homosexual (apparently he didn't with Michael Ontkean. He is a characters. Everything comes out Unfortunately, we're forced to take tered on McNichol, in a role she mind the leg brace). Her third male photographer who makes his living shallow in the end: characters, story this film "just the way it is." 
Classifieds 
Friday, November 16, 1984 -page 17 
STEELTOWN GIRL FOR THE THANKS­"PURPLE IS NOW MY FAVORITE HI NATALIE!! I GUESS YOU NEVER EX­GIVING BREAK LOOKtN FOR THE COLOR' PECTED TO SEE YOUR OWN PER· RIDE OF HER LIFE to Pittsburgh! Leave SONAL IN THE OBSERVER, DID YOU!! anytime after 2 on 11/21. WiU share YOU WERE LOOKING GREAT. SURPRISE'!! YOU'RE A GREAT usual. Contact MEG 284-5264. FRIEND! SIGNED, YOUR CRAZY 
........•..... ---. ... . . ..... 

~N_O_T_IC_Es__.ll~_W_A_N_TE_D______, PERSONALS] 
THE SAINT LOUIS CLUB IS COMING (DRUNK?) BUDDYEXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 Ride needed to St. Paut/Mpls 101' PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234·
NEED RIDE TO Ll FOR BREAK WILL From the KING ol CLUBS comes the best Thanksgiving. WiHing to leave ear1y!! 
0363. 24 hour hottine/free pregnancy test d food. At our concesaion stand on the CAMPUS VIEW COUNTRY CLUBRENT CALL J AT 1209 TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
(Sunday Of Monday) Call Mary at 277­available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER New Mall by cavanaugh Halt, you'M find SWEATSHIRTS!!! LIMITED SUPPLY!!!
2851. 

FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A Wanted: 2 rides to DEETROIT fOf' break -us serving only the finest food. We won't GET YOURS NOW-CALL 272..()816 
................................. ················· 
will PAY$1 mimon. call Linda 4215 LET THEM EAT CAKE!'!! be surprised to see Father Ted Of the lot­ONLY SIZE LARGE AVAILABLEBELLY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEK! 272-Aide Needed:To Rochester,N.Y. area for ball team there be!Of'e they go on to chew 
1858 Thanksgiven Break. Will share usual ex­i-h~-~~~~~-~irik~·-··:tiuev· ?"?i........
LET THEM EAT CAKE!'!! on the lions at the stadium. See yow Sat.,
penses. Morn's expecting me to carve the just look fOf' the Golden Arch!
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 after 5:30 turkey so please help !!! Call Basil at2275 ORDER YOUR CAKE TODAY FROM Wolverine, who are you? Happy Birthday . Do it fOf' my mom! 
FOR SALE 

NO CAKE SERVICE THRU IRISH GAR­Captain A Team.
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. KICK THE LIONS! NO vs. Penn St. T­DENS!!! SURPRISE A FRIEND WITH A ...fascinating.. .interesting Love, fuzzy
NNd rldera to CLEVELAND, leaving shirts available now at North & SouthB-DAY CAKE TODAY!!!! httte ett P.S. a challenge from Kitty 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-811J7 Mondey 11/11. C.U S..n-2n·3153. Dining Halls. Only $5.00! Get yours Commodore MPS 801 dot matrix printer. befOf'e they're gone. Used 3 months. Reason fOf' selling-need FLY TO CAUFORNIA FOR A LOST...Jean jacket(just tike the million d
WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING. I NEED A RIDE TO THE UNIVERSITY money!! Contact John Long at MOI'eau WEEKEND -01' anywhere else in the U.S. others around) at SeniOf' Bar Wed. Blistex 
272-8827. OF ILLINOIS NEXT WEEKEND (THE I NEED A AIDE to St. Louis 101' Thanksgiv­Seminary-239-7735. $190.00 firm. One round trip airline ticket 101' sale -to in the upper left hand pocket... it's cold out. 
............................................................... 16TH TO THE 18TH).IFYOU CAN HELP ing. WiH pay the usuaL Call Maureen at 
anywhere you feel ~ke going BUT all CaH x3605 if found. 
PAD-TYPE Over 14 yrs. of exper;ence. ME OUT. I WILL PAY FOR MY SHARE 1333.
travel must be completed by 12/17.
ATTENTION THROATS FOR SALE: Tl
Computerized service. Dissertations. law OF THE GAS, ETC. CAI.L MAUREEN AT .........................................................\ .... 
Programmable 59 complete Taking best offer. Makes a great gift! Call ROBIN HOLLEY, SINCEcalculator L SO, MISSpapers, student papers 2n-5833. 2900 IF YOU ARE INTERESTED. 
1216. There once a comic named Tenk.
with battery peck, Master Ubrary. mag­WHEN IS VENOM ATIRACTIVE ?7 ­
Whose humOI' was really quite rank. 
netic C81ds, and leather cue. Ust price OMEGAEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL RIDERS NEEDED TO WEST PA/PITTS Mary's guide to instant popularity: attend "Til one night at N.D. 
$255. Beet offer. Dave 2002. 

MAS. COKER, 233-7009 AREA. LEAVING WED. 11/21 5:00P.M. 
a football game in Notre Dame stadium on He became an expendee. Sweet C, (My Utile Bruin) I can't believe CALL LISA 1332 GOING TO CHICAGO FOR BREAK? a chilly November day with 1 date-Mr. And this to our Chris we can thank ! you came a1t the way to Indiana just to see
TYPING ............................................................. 
THE STUDENT ACT.BOARD AN­Schnapps. Did anyone ever read it ? Does anyone me. You are truly dedicated to finishingJackie Boggs Proofreader Wanted! Prefer Experience. 
NOUNCES ITS $10 ONE WAY FARE TO care? what you started. I can't thank you684-8793 Must be meticulous! Phone 236-8047. 
AND FROM CHICAGOS OHARE AIR­Did you know that Mary-Jo Unlak is back HURRAY Ill enough-"The Promise Kept." You'n al­
PORT.BUSESLEAVEN.D.AT 1:30P.M. on campus at this very minute? If you see ways be "FOfever Mine." Yours, Fitz PLANNING TO GO TO FORT 
her. welcome her back with a great bigON WED..NOV.21st AND BRING YOUNEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES LAUDERDALE FOR SPRING BREAK? 
hug. Show her that South Bend isn't that ATIENTION! Corning Mon. Nov. 19: G.2n-&CM5 WIE NEED TWO PEOPLE TO SHARE 
BACK TO N.D. FROM CHICAGO AT 7 'Your hands than mine are quicker fOf' a 
P.M..SUNOAY.NOV.25th.ITS ONLY $10 cold. Troll Wail's birthday Start early and send fray, my legs are longer though to runPICKUP AND DELIVERY GAS AND HOTEL EXPENSES. CAU EACH WAY AND ITS THE BEST PRICE him your best away.' Cheryl,how do get me to read this 1720NOW. 
hay KAT

IN TOWN. SIGN UPS IN RECORD stuff? J.T. 
Happy Anniversary THE ONLY GATHERING THAT MAT­STORE.
NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI OVER See? I remembered TERS!!! SATURDAY NIGHT! HEY Dognappers beware! Don't harm myBREAK. CAN LEAVE WEDNESDAY. 
(it's Sunday) U2...BE THERE ... AAE YOU GOING TO MumfOf'd at the risk of your own slttns!l 
c OPERATION BRAINSTORM WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL DAN AT ....' ........... ................................... 
BE THERE TOO? 

2275 -PLEASE HELP!!!!!!!! BRIAN'S SONG BRIAN'S SONG
TICKETS 
To all ex-Boilermakers:Anlc:IMConteat BRIAN'S SONG TONIGHT AT 7,9,& 11 DO YOU NEEDA AIDE TO ANN ARBOR What's more important than beating the

Riders needed to St. Louie, leaving Tues. AT ENG. AUD. $1 THIS WEEKEND? CAU MARIA AT 
Hoosiersc.hPrlz•r around 4:00, corning back Sunda). Call 284-5534 FOR MORE INFORMATION!!!

PENN ST GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 this weekend? 
Maripat Of Jennifer at 2n-2851. THE CHEAPEST ONE WAY ROUTE TO Ending aH forms ol abuse, of course.
Nov. 12th to 20th CHICAGO COSTS ONLY $10 IF YOU BUT PEOPLE UKE ME BETTEAIIIMY NAME IS VINNIE.
Need ride fOf' two to can-TAKE THE STUDENT ACT.BOARD
There, now thet the excibng stuff is out of
AppHcetlona avett.ble .. ton/Columbus/Guernsey Co for BUSES. LEAVES N.D. WED.,NOV.21ST 4 PENN.ST. G.A.S CALL MR.MEATZ 
the way, I think you should know that I HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU,
OBUD c:IMk I Darby'a tues., 11120 caH John 283-3167,Of Kathy AT 1:30 p.m. and AND BRINGS YOU 1959 OR MRS.MERTZ 2672 
need two Penn State GA's, preferebly HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU,
283-3781 BACK TO N.D. ON SUNDAY.NOV. 25th
beiOf'ethe game on the 17th. Call VINNIE HAPPY BIRTHDAY PAUL DELEONE,
AT 7P.M. SIGNUPS AT RECORD 1983-84 LONDONERS YOU KNOW 
at 2538. That's VINNIE. HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU!!!
HELP-NEED RIDE FROM BOSTON TO STORE WHO YOU ARE-YOU KNOW WHO I 
LOVE PAULA

NO NOV24 OR 25 ED2187 AM. THE GUY WHO PUUED YOUR LOGAN CENTER nMda STUDENT TIX PINTS IN LONDON INVITES YOU TOANY JAZZ ENTHUSIASTS WHO PLAY 
NEED 2 Penn State GA's call Martha at WELCOME BACK BASS OR PIANO INTERESTED IN 
Female Roomate wanted to share NO for PENN ST. Collecting .. DINNG THE NESS TAILGATER. BEFORE AND 
SMC 5120 PROFESSOR CHOPP JOINING A FELLOW JAZZ LOVER 
Ave. APTS. starting Jan. call Rose 234-HALLS WED-FRI. AFTER THE PENN STATE GAME. 6523 Of 283-2589 LOOK FOR THE UNION JACK OVER
(SAXOPHONE PLAYER) FOR A JAM? 
NeedPtonnSt. tix, GA'sOf'other. Call Dan NEW YORK: Rider needed to THE RED JEEP. BE THERE OR YOU'LLCALLED3043 287-6262 NICKY: WHERE'S THE RIVER RAID
NEED RIDE TO AND FROM VANDER­Westchester/Putnam area, leaving MISS IT. 
CARTRIDGE. BUDDY?!

BILT UNIVERSITY OR NASHVILLE FOR 11/19, returning 11/20. Call Ray 1078 Of
PLEASE NEED 2-8 PENN ST. TIX CALL
11/30 WEEKEND CALL MARK AT ANY Chad4223. RIDERS NEEDED TO CLEVELAND,
TOM2111 LYONS GIRLS EAT THEIR YOUNG!!!
TIMEAT1638 PITISBURGH, DC AND CHARLOTIE5­
LOVE MORRISSEYNAPERVIUE, VIUE, VA. LVG. WED. 5 PM, RET. SUN. 

LOST/FOUND I 
Yo, Richard'

Need ride to Pittsburg on Tues., Nov. 20th Cent• of the Unlv..-.. CAU JOAN 233-9210 DAYS, 233-2549 
CONCERNED REPRESENTATIVES OF Please call Diane 5179 NITES.

Need aome tlcketa to Penn FARLEY: YOU'RE JUST MAD BE·
I need a human life form to transport me toLOST: NO BRASS KEY RING WITH ALL State....four, to be exact. I'll take 4 atu­CAUSE YOU DIDN'T GET ASKED TO 
MY KEYS. MARY 2890 NeedridetoLong lslandOf'N.Y.C.Ieaving Naperville, IH., whenever convenient. Will PENN STATE TIX FOR SALE
denta, or 2 atudanta and 2 GAa. Th­APPEAR IN THE "WOMEN" OF NO!
Tuesday 11/20. Will share expenses. CaU share driving and expenses and corporal 1 G.A. Of 1 Student ticket fOf' sale. Call 
GET A LIFE!!!!!! 

Rod at 1625. guya erw coming from w... Vlr­pleasures, which we of the planet NOI'gon Sarah at 1333. Will accept best offer. 
LOST: Black Cross pen in .107 O'Shag glnla...have aympathy for thoaa who have heard much about. Call "John" atafter 11 :00 class on Thur 11/8 call2263 Of talk funny. Call Zeke ..2045. I need a ride to O'HARE on Tues. after­
2483 ATIENnON YORK IRISH FANS!
2245 any time--THANX noon,tt/20. Call Maureen at 4673. WiH
W.nted: BlocMn-1 tutor. C.ll 284-5488. HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOM, HAPPY AN­
share usual. 

Tony Anderson, come on down! NIVERSARY MOM AND DAD, HAPPYLOST ·14K GOLD CHAIN BRACELET NEEDED: 2 PENN STATE STUDENT
Going near Wichita,K.C., Of South Ind. 101' THANKSGIVING MOM, DAD, AND
IN OR AROUND ENGINEERING BUILD­TICKETS BARB 4096 CONGRATS POMI-HEAD and
T -day? Cindy(2933) needs a ride It's just a jump to the left. and then a step KATIE ......... IT WONT BE THE SAME
ING OR PARKING LOT. IF FOUND DUZANNE!!! KEEP UP THE GOOO EF·to the right, WITHOUT YOU! LOVE, MGM CAU JOAN 287·2831, EXT. 17. NEED 2 Penn State GAs. Jeff 1049 FORTS!
Ride needed to Upstate New York 'OfT­and then a pelvic thrust over to Stepan g•ving break.Destination-Potsdam Of Center fOf' WANTED: 1 FEMALE HEIGHT: 5"4" •
I HOPE WHOEVER STOLE A RED CB Need4 Penn State Tickets. Student OfGA
vicinity .Sheri 284-4148 5"8" WEIGHT: 115 -125 LBS HAIR: MIKE, JOE, and BOB,
JACKET SUNDAY IN 1ST FLOOR LI­Call1250. 
THE ROCKY HORROR PICTURE BLONDE OTHER: MORALLY CASUAL COME HERE AS UONS­
BRARY HAS A VERY GUlLTY CON­TWO HOMESICK LONG ISLANDERS SHOW ATIITUDE CALL 1236 LEAVE HERE AS LAMBS!
SCIENCE IT WAS A 21ST BIRTHDAY For Sale: 2 Penn GA's 1 Penn Student 2 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO N.Y.
PRESENT FOR MY BOYFRIEND. IF Hotel Rooms 101' Fri and Sat-Penn
FOR THANKSGIVING. PLEASE CALL Friday and Saturday, Nov. 16 and 17 ProgrMalve Mualc dorm rape: If you
YOUY KNOW OF ITS WHEREABOUTS. Weekend. CaiiSOSS (SMC)
ERIN OR TIM AT 233-6544. 9:30 and Midnight have not picked up your copl• of the GO IRISH!
PLEASE TURN INTO LOST AND $1 AdmiSSion Nov. naMilttw, atop by 341 KMNn
FOUND IN THE LIBRARY OR CALL 2n-NEED4 Penn St. TIX. GUS x1186. Sponsoredbythe SocialAlternative Club aomatlma thla weekend to do eo. OFF·
4706. NO QUESTIONS WILL BE To my favotite TRAMPS: Paui"You have

CAMPUS members: your copy of the
ASKED. RIDE OR RIDERS NEEDED TO NO. HELP!! I NEED TWO G.A. TIX FOR THE 1 hour" Barlow Chuck "I had this 
Let's do the time warp again. newsletter I• at the Information daak,
VA/DC AREA FORT-G BREAK. 3128. PENN STATE GAME. PLEASE CALL­dream..." Hogan Big Jim "I like sleeping 
, ..floor. LaFonuna.

FOUND-GOLD BRACELET IN FAC­JULIEat4354. on the floor" Prinster Eddie "This campus ULTY PARKING LOT THIS WEEKEND. Ride needed to Peoria. IL fOf' Thanksgiv­needs another monument" Leonard Dave 
Whatever happened to Tina Lou1sa? ATIENnON: the VIolent Fem­
CALL 277-4706 TO IDENTIFY. ing. Would like to leave by 1 PM on Tues­I NEED 4 STUD. OR GA TIX FOR PENN "Pineapples give me a new lease on ~fe"
lhow wa poatponacl until Dec. 21.
day. Call Colleen at 3465. ST.• CALL PAT 3055 Girardot Hank "That was my beer" Moon 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR, Thua, no PMC trip to ...tham. Watch
At Dillon formal on Friday, a small black Kevin "So Morn, what's a crumWIIII'?" 
CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE thla apace for other roed trip Info.
ITI camera was lost in room 1112 of the If I don't get a whole bunch ol PENN Doherty Andy "Hi, nice to meet you, too." 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.

Americana.Reward.Mark at 1728. STATE atudant Ucketa soon, four very Richardson Thanks fOf' making Marching 
HEY SUSIE: Now that you·re legal, is it
.... ................ . 

························ ...................... ············· large thugs will smash my face in, abuse Band a riot. Baritone Herpes, gotta love it! 
RIDE WANTED TO OMAHA, NE. CAN Would you believe -I had a ride to St. just as much fun? Happy Birthday! 
LOST: One student ID with a picture of an my lnfonet number with daytime calls to That must be why everybody wants to be 
LEAVE 6 PM 11/20 RETURN TO NO Louis fOf' Thanksgiving Break. but my
extremely adorable student on the front. Bangladesh, kill my goldfish and staple a Baritone. Don't think that this is the last 
11/25 CALL SHEILA 232-6110 AFTER 9 mom needs me to come home a day early HEY CAREY!! WANT TO COME Q'ING? 
Whoever took my ID had better return it them to bulletin boards. and IOI'ce me at d me, I'll be dropping in (literally) so save 
PM WILL SHARE EXPENSES. to go turkey hunting? If t don't get horne by
pronto to 306 Howard. This 10 has loads gunpoint to listen to Kenny Rogers· some Schnapps 101' me and remember
Tues. n1ght, my whole family may go
of sentimental value. Christmas album. II you have any heart at KOPLAS· HOW LONG IS THAT 25, 26, 27, 27 GO IRISH GO!! Love, Who 
hungry. Please give me a nde Tues. Just 
.............................................................. all, please call GREG at 2532. "PAPER" ANYWAY??? ARE YOU SURE Elsa?
call283-1933. I promise not to bring my
LOST:WHITE ANGORA HAT BETWEEN YOU WON'T BE ABLE TO GO HOME
shotgun in the car. Ask 101' Joe.

LIB-FARLEY-STEPAN. SENTIMENTAL NEED RIDERS TO MD/DCNA AREA. HELP! NEED 3 OR 4 PENN STATE G.A. FOR THANKSGIVING?? Coming to an Architecture Building near VALUE!! PLEASE CALL4093. THANX. CALL MARTY AT 3284 TICKETS AND 5 OR 6 STUDENT TICK­you: XXXXXXXXXXXX
READY TO MAKE THE MOVE O.C.? A 
ETS CAI.L MARK AT 1688 JOHN WACKOWSKI--NUMBEA 44 000000000000
roommate is wanted to share an apart­
LOST:GREEN ARMY JACKET OFF S$$ATIENTION ARTISTS$$$ PAINTER JOHN WACKOWSKI-NUMBER 44 )()(){)(}()()(} 000000000000
ment in Notre Dame Apts. Rent is CAMPUS. PLEASE CALL 2n-3921. NEEDED FOR SIMPLE WALL DESIGN NEEDP.S.U.GA'SCALLJIM2n-3616 JOHN WACKOWSKI--NUMBER 44 Do )()(){)(}()()(} 000000000000
105/mo. plus utilities. FOI' an appointment IN DORM ROOM CALL 4070 JOHN OR you want to see this fine young man get a xxxxxxxxxxxx 000000000000
to see the apt. call Sheila at 283-3791. LOST: A BROWN PURSE WITH MIS­scon HELP!!! I NEED PENN ST. STUDENT chance to play in his final year? Start the )()(){)(}()()(} 000000000000 SOURI 10. AT THE SENIOR BAR ON TICKETS!!! CALL 4511 FOR$$$$$ WE WANT WACKOWSKI cheer this Sat· EXPO ROllA EXPO ROllA EXPO SAT. PLEASE CONTACT 3085. RIDE NEEDED TO BUFFALO Leave urday against Penn State' Get him in the ROMA
MEN OF N.D. CALENDARS FOI' sale 
11/19, return 11/25 call Chris 2129 I NEED PENN ST GAa.272-6308 game! A~ the cheer: WE WANT An exhibtion ol student design projects,
Friday 3-7 and Saturday 9-12 in Walsh

LOST: One pair of yellow sweat pants. WACKOWSKI! -Sponsored by !he We watercolors. and sketches from Rome.
and Farley 

NOTRE DAME printed on both legs. Loaf Need Alden to Detroit Area for I DESPERATELY NEED PSU G.A.'S. Want Wackowski Committee The show opens on Sunday, November at Rock on 11/13 about 5:30p.m. Please Thlinkaglvlng lrMk. WIH leeve Wed. CALL CHRIS AT 1 072. 18 at 2:00 with a reception and slide
Check out the new MEN OF N.D. CALEN­

call Steve at 2n-8491 if found. Nov. 21 and return Sun. Nov 25. c.tl FOR THAT ALUMNUS OR STUDENT show and runs through Tuesday, Novem­
······ ....... ································ 
DARS!!!!!! FOI' sale Friday Nov 16 from 

Mellndliat~716 $$Help'Need 2 St.tix to Penn St. Call Patty WHO ALREADY HAS ONE OF EVERY­ber 20. Come see it in the Gallery of the
3-7 and Monday Nov.19 in Walsh and 

SMC5254 THING FROM THE BOOKSTORE -­Architecture Building' 
Farley.

HELP!I RIDERS NEEDED TO LAUGHING LEPRECHAUN HEADS -· .................................................. PHILA.ISOUTH JERSEY AAEA!I NEED: 4 PSU TICKETS BAD, JOHN CALL JEFF AT 283-4100. THE SAGA CONTINUES.. Once upon a
Good feeling

LEAVING ON TUES. 11/20 AND RE· 3467 time there was a disaaaed roly poly fish­
FOR RENT Won't you stay with me 
TURNING ON SUN. 11125. CALL JEFF SENIOR DINNER SATURDAY NOV. 17 head who didn't play basebllll Of ­
Just a little longer

3851 HEY, I know h'a lata, but I atilt !Wad 1 COCKTAILS 4:00 TO 5:00 AND DINNER sweaters Take him to a movie!! 
It always seem like you ·re leaving

ROOMMATE NEEDED TO SHARE NO (one) maalay llttta GA for the PSU AT 5:00 IN SOUTH DINING HALL. MEAL
When I know you are the one 

APT WITH 3 GUYS 1 05/MO II UTIL RIDERS NEEDED TO STLOUIS. leaving g~~ma. For • great time -I ~. for • PLAN STUDENTS FREE-AI.L OTHERS Osc&r"....OSCAR! Come home, you mal·
Just a little too well 

CALL PAT 3501 tues. & returning sat call Jeff at 3737. gNat deal, call Mike at 3337 $6.00 All WELCOME!! formed hippo!
·The Femmes 

The Observer -Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager........... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller ................ Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Edttor ............. Sarah Hamilton Advertising Manager .. ..... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the admtnistration of either institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary·s Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represen: the opinion Sports Editor . ........... Michael Sullivan Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column V1ewpomt Editor . . . . . . Dave Grote Project Manager ........... Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor . . . . . Mary Healy commun1ty, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. Photo Edttor. . . . . . . . . . . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 IS encouraged. 
---~·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. 

------~------­

Sports Briefs 
The ND Water Polo Club ended the season last weekend at the Midwest Conference Championship Tournament in Indianapolis. The team, led by Michael Roberts' 86 goals and Steve Guenther's S S goals, finished with a 6-10 record. Players should con­tact Mike at 283-1471 for final season information. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will be 
meeting Tuesday, Nov. 20 from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the LaFortune little Theatre. All money and sponsor sheets from the ergothon will be due then. For more information, call Patti at 283-4096. -The Observer 
The International Students Organization will 
hold a soccer training session today at 4 p.m. on the Stepan fields. Anyone who is interested may attend. For more information, call Winston Griffin at 283-3376.-The Observer 
Interhall basketball officials will be meeting 
Tuesday, Nov. 20 at 5 p.m. in the football auditorium at the ACC 
Anyone who is interested may attend. -The Observer 
In one-on-one basketball competition 
sponsored by NVA Wednesday night, Bob Michaels defeated Lon 
Huffman for the championship in the under-six-feet division. In the 
over-six-feet division, Kurt Weaver beat Chris Perozekfor the title. ­
The Observer 

Sign-ups for the SMC Turkey Trotwill be 
accepted today until 5 p.m. at the Ahgela Athletic Facility. The three-mile cross-country race will be held Monday, Nov. 19, and is open to all Saint Mary's students, faculty and friends. A S 1 advance registration fee is required to cover the cost of awards. For more information, call the Saint Mary's Athletic Department at 284-5548.­
The Observer 

Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be written clearly. -The Observer 
HELP ARA FIGHT M.S. 
* *GO TO SENIOR BAR* * 
30t out of every $1 collected at the door will be donated to the Multiple Sclerosis Society 

', )
•.. 
( . 
~· 

~ 
Jive at the Notre Dame ACC
!.:,J! 

with opening act: 
THE COMA TEENS 
Friday November 16th 
8:00pm 
Tickets on sale NOW at all ACC Ticket outlets and the SAB Record Store in Lafortune 
-----------------~ 
• 
Friday, November 16, 1984 -page 18 
Allows Saint Mary's student input 
Student Athletic Council formed 
By MARK B. JOHNSON But this year, the Belles are seeing as chairperson ofthe Sports Informa­Saint Mary's Sports Edttor the goals oftheir hard work realized -tion Committee. the latest example being the newly Backing Byrne and serving as the 
Persistence. This i~ one attribute formed Student Athletic Council. core of the Council are junior that describes Saint Mary's athletes, According to Council President, Ma•Jreen Murphy, vice-president, and until now it has enabled them to senior Ellen Byrne, the athletes have and senior Missy Van Ort, secretary, endure long years of frustration submitted a council plan for several who were elected from among the which have stemmed from their rap­years, but until this fall it was never 20 student-athletes who form the port with the athletic department given any really serious considera­Council. and the administration. tion. The difference this fall ap­Following Nester's suggestion, 
parently has been Dr. JoAnn Nester, the Council is comprised of two rep­
Saint Mary's new Director of Ath­resentatives from each varsity pro­
letics and Recreation. gram and representatives from the
Soccer 

club and intramural levels. "We thought ofit a couple ofyears
continuedfrom page 24 

ago, but our last athletic director Current goals of the council in­
Campus' comeback attempt nearly was not too supportive of the idea," clude publicizing all athletic events, impossible. With Flanner goalie says Byrne. "This year the attitude publicly recognizing both past and Steve Sein playing well, the outcome has been a lot better because JoAnn present athletic achievements, coor-_ 
never really was in doubt after the has been much more enthusiastic dinating an academic "help pro­intermission. about it." gram" for athletes and starting an Nester came into the program orientation program for potential 
"It seemed like Flanner gained stressing the importance of student freshmen athletes. confidence as the second half went input, and now she has put that phi­In addition, the council would on," said interhall soccer commis­losophy into practice. like to gain a representative to the 
sioner Gene O'Connor. "Flanner 
Programming Board of the student played tough and it seemed Off­"We need to hear from the stu­government and the right to view Campus started to get tired out." 
dents to see where they want their how the athletic department dividtts 
program to go," Nester says. "It is its budget. 
Etling explained that there was their program, and I am here to "I realistically think that we can some added incentive for him and administer it." accomplish all of our goals," says his teammates. Byrne. 
"There are a lot ofguys on the Off­Senior Elaine Suess and 1984 At present, the only major obsta· Campus team from Flanner, so we graduate Cynthia Short did most. of cle that could present itself is that of wanted to win badly," he said. "It the groundwork, pushing for the money. The Council is operating wasn't a grudge match because Council in the past and according to without funds, and it will continue we're really good friends. But we Byrne, they also should be credited in this fashion unless the athletic de­just wanted to win so we went out in part for this year's success. Suess partment decides to provide it with and tried to beat them to the ball." continues her work for the Council financial support. 


The Observer 
Friday, November 16, 1984-page 19 
six points, but only two came from The Irish, who have been con­his outside jumpshot, which Phelps centrating on offense for most of
Irish 
has said will be a valuable tool to their preseason practices, will have continuedfrom page 24 beat zone defenses this year. to have the defense in tune by Nov. scoring output, and Barlow grabbed The depth of the Notre Dame 25, when they will play host to Man­12 boards. team was something that gave Zadar hattan in their first regular-season 
Jim Dolan (eight points, nine a lot of trouble, according to Head game. rebounds) and Scott Hicks (five Coach Bruno Marcelic, who spoke points, three assists) were the other to reporters through an interpreter. "We came to the States to learn two starters for the Irish, as 12 Notre "Notre Dame is the best team that basketball," he explained. "This is a Dame players saw action. Freshman we have played so far (on a nine­whole different game for us. I feel Matt Beeuwsaert, who has a minor game American tour)," Marcelic this is the best school for the guards injury, was sidelined f~r last night's said. "They have a whole team at to learn how to play against the pres­game. every position. sure defense." 
Gary Voce and Jeff Peters, the team's two other freshman, both played well. Voce totaled eight 
Saint Mary's club team 
points, including a two-handed slam 
dunk late in the first half. Peters had Box Score  wins soccer tournament By PAM CUSICK Last spring, Saint Mary's won the  
Notre Dame 103, Zaclar Club 86  · Sports Writer  Notre  Dame  Tournament,  with  
Zaclar Club (86)  teams such as Northwestern Univer­ 
M FG-A 11 0-2 39 4-7  FT·A 1-2 2-2  R 1 11  F 2 4  P 1 10  The Saint Mary's women's soccer club defeated Superior Soccer Club  sity, Kalamazoo College, Wheaton College, and Spring Arbor College  
17  2-5  4-6  4  5  8  and  Goshen  Soccer  Club  last  present.  
39  7-18  5-5  5  4  19  weekend at the Michiana Soccer As­ "We remained undefeated in our  
40 30 24  9-15 6-12 6-8  1-1 5-5 0-2  3 2 2  3 2 1  19 17 12  sociation Tournament to claim the tournament title and raise its fall  last nine games, scoring 34 goals to our opponents four goals," noted  
200 34-67 18-23 28 21 86 FG Pet. .507. FT Pet. -.783. Team ebounds-3. Turnovers-17. Assists-13 Matulovic 6). Technicals-1 (Popovic). Notre Dame (103) M FG-A FT·A R F P 22 4-6 0-0 9 1 8 25 9-16 2-2 12 2 20 25 6-10 8-8 13 2 20 30 7-21 5-6 3 3 19  season record to a 11-5-1 going into Sunday's meet against Northwestern University. The Superior Soccer Club was the first victim of the St. Mary's soccer team, falling in a semi-final match by a score of6-1. This semi-final victory enabled the St. Mary's to advance to  Akers. "In our collegiate games this year, we defeated teams like Loyola University, Purdue University, and Nazareth College, but lost to Mar­quette University and Notre Dame." The team plans on hosting an in­door soccer tournament with  J j l j ~ j l j J  
30  2-6  1-2  2  1  5  the finals of the tournament against  Indiana  University/Bloomington,  I  
Thr Obsrn~rr /Pr1r L2chrs Tim Kempton cans two ofbis game-bigb 20points last night tn Notre Dame's 103-86 wtn over tbe Zadar Club ofYugoslavia. Fel­low junior Ken Barlow also bad 20 points, matching Kempton's total. Phil Wolf reviews the exhibition game in bis story on tbe backpage.  12 34 3-4 2 1 9 11 3-5 0-0 1 3 6 r:.:-e 11 3-4 2-2 4 0 8 6 3-7 0-1 0 2 6 1 0 0-1 2-2 1 2 2 7 0-2 0-0 2 1 0 1 0-1 0-0 0 0 0 200 40.83 23-27 49 18103 FG Pet. -.482. FT Pet. -.852. Team ebounds-1. Turnovers-18. Assists-15 Dolan 4). Technicals-none Halftime-Notre Dame 58, Zadar Club 35 icials-Mickey Crowley, Nick Gaetani,. A­0,532.  Goshen. Saint Mary's overcame Gos­hen by a score of 2-1 to place first overall in the league tournament. "Soccer is the fastest growing sport among women in the country," said Coach John Akers. "Chances are, next fall Saint Mary's will be the first NAIA women's var­sity soccer program in Indiana. We're excited about the fact that it's going to be a varsity sport next year."  Michigan State University, Mar­quette University, and Notre Dame this February. Senior captain Katie Boldt and junior captain Maureen Murphy join together with senior Ellen Burne, president, senior Michelle McNeil, vice-president, junior Sue Shierl, secretary, and freshman Marie Mel-. lin, treasurer, to successfully com­plete the soccer club's fourth consecutive year.  A j I I j I j j I i l  

THE "FIGHTING IRISH'S" Other Speciality Team, 
THE SHERATON GRANDE HOTEL BUTLERS. 

FOR ··THE TIME OF YOUR LIFE" ... let America's distinctive hutlered "TIME OF YOuR LIFE.. WEEKEND
hotel make your visit to los Angeles more than that all too familiar game 
PACKAGE
weekend "Road Trip". We have a butler on every floor to pamper your every whim and loads of complimentary services like free health club facil­ities. turndown service. and morning coffee with a newspaper. And if that is not enough. we·re a direct dive play into the Coliseum (our location is less than 10 minutes from the stadium I. 


~ 
j 
j 
I j 
j 
j 
4 
j j 
I• 
j j 
•j 
4 
f 
~ 
1 
j j 
I 
~ 
j 
I 
j j 

FOR RESERVATIONS 
TilE SHER\TO~ • Per nil!hl. per person. douhle oCL·upancy. plu~
CALL: 800-325-3535 
tax and hellman's l.!ratuities. With !he Sheraton Family Plan. up tn2 children a).!e 17 & under stav
and ask for GRANDE 
free in same room with adults in existin.l.! heddin.l!. Rate availahle throul!h Dec..\I. I')H4. Advance
"The Time of Your Life"" 333 SOUTH FIGUEROA STREET resenations required. Suhiect to limited avail­LOS ANGELES. CA 90071 ahility. Ask for the "Time of Your Life Pal'kal!e." 
Weekend Package. 

213/617-1133 Not applicahle to ).!roups or conventions. 

--------~-~ ----~-~---------~--------~-----------------~-------....... 
The Observer Friday, November 16, 1984 -page 20 
I 
''I,. I Freshman top•seed Garrett shines on cross-country team 
I 
\ By NICK SCHRANTZ eighth, 15th, 13th, fourth, fourth, eluded Georgetown, Wake Forest, Garrett feels that coach Piane has Piane is also very positive when \ Sports Writer and 15th. His best times for the year Duke and Kentucky. been a big help to him this year. discussing Garrett. 
include  a  24:33.4  at  the five-mile  "I came to Notre Dame because of  
i \,. \' \ \ \ \ \.'\'  Competing in a collegiate sport on the varsity level requires a large adjustment for incoming freshmen. Many highly regarded freshmen are not able to handle the adjustment from high school to college and fail to compete up to others' expecta­tions. However, Notre Dame cross country runner Dan Garrett is one freshman who has made this change  Notre Dame Invitational, and his 30:33 time for the 10,000-meter course at the district meet. As a result of Garrett's super season, the Irish remained unde­feated until the district meet, are now ranked 13th in the country, and qualified for the NCAA's for the first time in Piane's ten-year coaching career at Notre Dame.  the academics, the great facilities, and just about everything else," Gar­rett said. "Also, they have a tradition of good teams, a good schedule, and many of the best teams are in the Midwest." Garrett, ejen though it didn't af­fect his performance, experienced many surprises so far this year. "It was a lot tougher than I ex­ 
~ \· ,\ ',. '\\  and has succeeded beyond every ex­pectation. Nothing demonstrates Garrett's phenomenal success better than his performance at the NCAA District IV  Garrett heads into the NCAA's with confidence and lofty.goals for the team. "Our goal is a top-ten finish," Gar­rett said. "To do so we have to run  pected to combine school and cross country," Garrett explained. "I could handle the extra mileage in practice, but the academics are tougher and a lot different than high  
\' \'  Qualifying Meet held last Saturday at Illinois. He recorded a fast time of 30:33 for the 10,000-meter course  more as a team than we did at the District IV's. There will be around 180 runners so we all have to stay  school." Garrett is in the Freshman Year of Studies program, and plans to enter  
to be the top Irish runner and 15th  within  each  other and  drag  each  the College of Business Administra­ 
overall. Garrett's finish was the high­ other along."  tion. He credits his advisor with hel­ 
\ \ ' \ !•  est of any freshmen in the district, which is the toughest district in the country. In addition, he would have  One reason for Notre Dame's suc­cess this year has been their unsel­fish teamwork. Garrett exemplifies  ping him academics.  adjust  to  college  
\  qualified for the NCAA Champion­ships as an individual if the team it­ this belief in the team concept. "Going into the district meet we  After cross country, Garrett plans to compete in track. An excellent  
selfhad not qualified.  wanted to qualify, but we wanted to  5~000­ and I 0,000-meter runner in  
\ .. l \ '  Garrett's fine race helped the Irish  do better than fourth. I didn't think  high school, Garrett hopes to run  

finish fourth in the meet, and thus about my goals as an individual," the S,OOO-meter race this year.
'\·1 
qualify for the NCAA Cross Country Garrett explained. "I'm happy for
'-\ 
I '\. 
Championships on Monday, Novem­myself in doing well, but I'm happier
I \c\ 
~ 
··, ber 19, at Penn State. in having the team qualify."
~ \ '. 
\ ·, 
Notre Dame head coach joe Piane Garrett entered Notre Dame this 
was one ofthe many people who had year with a set ofimpressive creden­
high expectations for Garrett before tials. The Clarence Center, New 
I 
"He's a good coach," Garrett "He's one of the better pure cross stated. "We've had no injuries this country recruits I've had," Piane year except a few twisted ankles. said. "He's really tenacious and not a This can be attributed to Coach quitter. He sets a pace and then goes Piane." aft<;rit." 
Toney signs with Irish 
Diondra Toney, a 5-9 point guard out of Chicago, signed a national letter of intent Wednesday to play basketball for the Notre Dame women's team, becoming Irish coach Mary DiS­tanislao's first signee this year. 
An outstanding ball handler, Toney has averaged 12.1 points and 10.2 assists over her high school career at Whitney Young High School. Over the past three seasons, she has led the Dol­phins to a 55-1 S record. 
In her junior year, Toney took Whitney Young to a 20-4 record and a second-place finish among 56 teams in the Chicago Public League. She was named all-area, all-city, all­public league and second-team all-state in the process. 
"Diondra is considere-d to be one of the finest guard prospects in the country right now," said DiStanislao. "Because of her sizt: and quickm·..,s, she'll add a new, exciting dimension to our team next year ·· 
Already this year, Tont·y has been selected as a pre-season fifth-team All-Amc.:ril:an hy \'freet and Smith. 
I ' the year began. York, native acquired All-American 1\ "I thought he would always be in recognition after being named first 
. \' 
the top three for our team, but I team all-state for both cross country 
SAVE WITH PIZZA HUT®
.\ 
didn't expect him to be number and track. He captained his cross
\' 
one," Piane explained. "I knew he country, indoor track, and outdoor 
\, 
was tough and I counted on him to track teams his final two years, and 
SPECIAL DELIVERY
\\ 
be one of our top runners." was named the most valuable runner
\~ 
\ In the six meets Notre Dame has for all three sports.
' '.\1' 
IN SOUTHBEND AND MISHAWAKA
competed in this season, Garrett As a result of his great high school
\\ 
placed fourth, fifth, third, second, career, Garrett was highly recruited. 
I \\ 
'I 
third, and first for the Irish. In the He made his choice of Notre Dame,
I \ ,'· 
STATE UNE RD.

overall placements, he has finished which was among a list that also in­
' 
'' 

232-2499 ~.......___. 


\ 

"And delivery is FREE!" 
I I• 
Get the great taste of Pizza Hut® pizza delivered right to your
The Class of 1985 
door! CaR the number
I 
shoNn above for
Presents Its Annual 
\ ·. 
Pizza Hut® Special 

\ 
BLOCK PARTY!! 
I 
Delivery to your area. FRESH! HOT! FAST!

Friday, November 16 
Hours: 
4:00pm-12M, Sun. -Thurs. 
4:00pm -2:00 am, Fri. -S.t.

I 3:30pm -6:30pm 
Umitecl Delivery AIH. Our drivers carry no more than $20.

ACC (Enter Gate 3)
'' 
r--------­
1 $30FF
~02/~-4"
-~ 
I 
I anyLarge Pizza 
< 
T:.:i__
,\, :I 
I~!!?!!~!;~~'!}!,~za! 
I 
~~ ~ Special Delvery Lllits. Not valid for cine-in or canyout, or 1r1 combination with_ any other Pizza Hur' offet: l..irn;ted DeMry Atea. Offer good only
Come and enjoyfood and music 
on regular menu pncss through 

with administration, faculty, 
I CALL: 232-2499 
Coupons expire December 14, 1984
I 
students, and members of the 
• Northeast Neighborhood!
................................................................................... 

The Observer 
Friday. November 16, 1984 -page 21 
Doerger emerges from 'utility man' role on offensive line 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
Many people talk about the adjust­ment that students have to deal with when they make the transition from high school to college. For athletes, adjustments also must also be made in their sport. 
Tom Doerger, the 6-5, 272-pound starting quick tackle for the Fighting Irish did not have as much of a prob­lem as many football players do, be­cause he joined two of his teammates from LaSalle High School in Cincinnati, Oh., for his freshman year in 1 981. 
But the initial year at Notre Dame was not a good one for Doerger, who sat out the entire 1981 season. Even though he had a slow start because of the injury, after Doerger had knee surgery to repair some torn liga­ments, he has progressed slowly toward gaining the starting position he currently holds. 
After starting his career under the Golden Dome at the tackle position, Doerger was moved to center and saw limited reserve duty behind Mark Fischer in 1982. Doerger's task became more difficult in the 1983 season, when he came to be known as the "utility man." 
The Cincinnati, Oh., native was considered to be available for no fewer than three positions on the of­fensive line last year, gaining his ex­perience quickly. He filled in at quick guard for Tim Scannell, who was sidelined with a knee injury for three games, and took over for Mike Perrino, who had injured a shoulder, at strong tackle against Penn Stat~. Doerger also was capable to replace Mike Kelley at center ifany injuries prevented the starter from playing. 
"Switching positions last season was good for me," Doerger states. "I got a chance to do different types of running and passing blocks, and I 
think my technique is better be­
cause ofthat." 

With the graduation of Neil 
Maune, however, the shuttling be­
tween different positions was over. 
Doerger joined the other four re­
turning starters -Kelley, Perrino, 
Scannell, and Larry Williams -to 
form what most people considered 
to be a very experienced group 
which had the size and talent to 
overwhelm many opposing defen­
sive units. 

But not having that lineup all 
healthy at one time until recently 
has prevented Notre Dame from 
having its measure ofsuccess. 
"Defenses knew what to do' against us," Doerger says. "They stunted to the strong side ofour line, and with all in the injuries, they could stop us from establishing the running game. But I think that using two tight ends at once has made it difficult for other teams to know what side of the ball they want to stunt. 
"I think that we did solve the problem of not doing as well as we could have on the offensive line when we got healthy." 
As far as injuries go, Doerger has personally experienced that feeling, although he has managed to escape injury so far this season. 
"It seems as ifI always get injured before, or after the season, but during the season, I stay pretty healthy," continues Doerger, refer­ing to his pre-season knee injury as a freshman and hamstring problem before the Liberty Bowl last year. "The injuries are part of the game. We aren't practicing as hard this year, so that has cut down on the in­juries a little, but they still happen in games." 
Because he has had a taste of playing the different positions on the offensive line, Doerger knows 
what is needed to pertorm well at team that had run all over other of­"Jerry and Smitty had exactly the each spot. fensive lines and sacked quarter­same personality then as now," says "It takes different skills to play at backs a number of times. But we Doerger. "I lifted weights with Jerry 
guard and tackle, and tackle is best kept them from doing any damage. in the summer, and it's good because suited for me," says the fourth-year we push each other. junior. "You need to be agile to pick Although Doerger is from Cincin­"I was the first to commit to Notre up different stunts that the defense nati, he did not attend Moeller and Dame and Smitty was leaning in that 
uses, but strong enough to drive the Gerry Faust was not his coach. direction," Doerger continues. tackle across from you off the line. LaSalle High School did not have as "When I said yes, he said he would 
"I like run blocking more, per­much success as its cross-town rival, probably come here, too. sonally," Doerger says. "I also think however. But, he did join two of his "I think that it is unique to have that our offensive line as a whole is teammates from LaSalle who also three players from one high school better on the run because of the size had aspirations to play for Notre playing here," says Doerger. and strength we have." Dame. Doerger still has another year of 
But, Doerger realizes that pass Chris Smith and Jerry Weinle, eligibility left and will be one of blocking is also important to Notre both seniors for the Irish, attended three linemen who return for next Dame's offensive concept. LaSalle with Doerger. Weinle had season. 
"We take pride in our pass block­graduated a year before Doerger and "I'm looking forward to playing ing," beams Doerger. "In the game Smith, but was granted an extra year next year, when I have a lot of expe­against l.SU, for example, we faced a ofeligibility at Notre Dame. rience." 
Looking to improve 
Wrestlers face important tourney 
By DAN MICHELINI top teams, McCann still views the weekend was the performance of Sports Writer tournament as a very valuable op­Ken Kasler. Kasler, a freshmen from portunity for his team. It will give Ohio, had a 2-1 mark in the 163­
Coming off a inspiring team effort the Irish a chance to improve their pound division. last weekend at the Michigan State skills, and also to gain some much­"Kenny showed very good com­Invitational, the Notre Dame wres­needed mat experience. posure for a freshman," said tling team will be looking for more "It's an open tournament, so McCann. "He wrestled intelligently, improvement this weekend when everyone will wrestle," says and I was extremely pleased with they travel to Southwestern Mic­McCann. "This tourney will give our him." higan University for the Michiana younger guys a chance to show what The Irish did lose one wrestler to Tournament. they've got." injury at MSU. Eric Crowns, a junior 
Last weekend gave the Irish the The Irish mentor looks for his in the 131-pound class, ruptured opportunity to earn some respect in team to improve on last week's per­ligaments in his ankle and will be in a the collegiate wrestling world, formance, yet he was very happy cast for about four weeks. Everyone something Coach Fran McCann with the way they wrestled last Sat­else emerged in good physical hopes to build on in the future. urday, especially their never-say-die health and will be ready to go this 
"Before, a Notre Dame wrestler attitude. weekend. was considered a cakewalk," notes "We hope to improve on our per­The Michiana Tourney will be the McCann. "Now it's different, and the formance of last weekend," says final tuneup for the Notre Dame guys proved that last weekend. We McCann. "We showed great im­wrestlers before their home opener beat a couple ofestablished teams." provement and enthusiasm last November 24 against Olivet 
week, but we've got a ways to go. Nazarene. This weekend should pro­Although this weekend's tourney This Saturday we'll find out how far vide the confidence and experience will not be as competitive as last we've con1e." they will need if they are to embark 
week because of the absence of the One especially bright spot last on a successful dual meet season. 

WHILE ON CAMPUS VISIT THE BOOK DEPT. 2ND FLOOR 

HAMMES N.D. BOOKSTORE 
HOURS SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17th 8:30a.m.-5:30p.m. 
JUST ARRIVED! I I Large shipment of new sale books IDEAL for Christmas gifts STOP IN TODAVIII 



The Observer Friday, November 16, 1984 -page 22 
Lefty has homecoming 
Hockey team travels to St. Thomas 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Wrlter 
ST. PAUL, Minn.-The Notre Dame hockey team is on the road once again this weekend. The Irish are here in St. Paul to take on the Tommies from the College of St. Thomas in games tonight and tomor­row. 
After dropping two games last weekend at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Notre Dame hopes it has ironed out the problems that led to its undoing a week ago. The Irish surrendered four goals in Friday's third period and yielded three first-period goals on Saturday to greatly hamper the Notre Dame attack. 
"Last weekend we seemed to be somewhat intimidated by their ag· gressive style and that concerns me," said head coach Lefty Smith. "In a close· checking game, we must


\' 

move the puck much quicker. Timing and execution are very im· portant. St. Thomas is a good skating team and they're fundamentally sound. They'll be ready for us, espe· dally on their home ice." 
Last season when the two teams met at Notre Dame, the Irish swept the Tommies by 3·2 and 7-5 scores. 
Notre Dame arrives here with a 2· 2 record, while St. Thomas has yet to see action in '84-'85. The Tommies finished last season with a respec· table 20-10-1 overall record, with a 13·3 mark in the Minnesota Intercol· 

Volleyball team hopeful 
Tough teams await Notre Dame 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
With hopes of bringing a success­ful end to the l 984 season, the Notre Dame women's volleyball team travels to Chicago this weekend to 

I try to conquer a nine-team field and
'\ 
take home the championship of the \ '~ second annual North Star Confer­
\\1_ 
ence tournament.

\,: 
The 1984 season has not been an 

,\.
' ' 
especially successful one for the 

t \ ·, I 
Irish. They have played some bril­

.\
,\ liant matches, yet have also played ~ ~', very poorly at times.
I' 
. \ So, although there will be one \ 
I \ 
more match against Michigan State 

I \, 
on November 20, this tournament ' \ provides the Irish with a chance to.\ end this average season on a very
.\ 
I, high note -one that would carry ' I over to next season. 
.('. 
The nine-team field will offer the Irish some very stiff competition. It includes two teams who tied Notre Dame for the regular season champi· onship of the North Star Conference with 7 ·1 records · Loyola and Xavier. 


The Loyola Ramblers were the only conference team to knock off the Irish this season, and will have the home-court advantage, as all the 
All the New DIRECT SALE COMICS 


,. ' 
now available


' .I 
r' •. 
.( 
:r '.,. EVERY FRIDAY 12:00NOON 
' \
~ 
Over 100,000

' }~ >·\.: 
: ~: 
hard to find 

~ \ : 
I ) '. 
back issues! 

' ~ ' 
I \ .' ( .
I , 
MICROMIX STORE

'I 
I ' 
AND ARCADE 

I 
1346 Mishawaka Ave. 

I \, ' 
I\ ' .. 
open

1: 
(I 'o •, 
7daysaweek phone: 11:OOam-9:00prP 234-1038 

r 
I 
( 
~ ; 
legiate Athletic Conference, good for second place. 
St. Thomas advanced to the quar­terfinals ofthe NCAA Division III Na­tionals and closed out the season ranked fifth nationally in the NCAA Division III hockey poll. 
When the two teams square off tonight and tomorrow, it will mark the second reunion in as many years between former coach and player. Smith returns to his hometown to take on his alma mater, and at the same ume coach against a former player, Terry Abram. In his two seasons behind the St. Thomas bench, Abram has compiled a 39·19· 
I record. 
Notre Dame freshman Pat Foley will also be returning home this weekend and he is hoping that he and the team will play well. 
"It will probably be the only time 
my parents will get to see me play, so 
I hope things go well," said Foley. 
"I've also played against a lot of guys 
on their team before. It would be 
nice to come away with a sweep." 
After last weekend, the Irish had 
to make some adjustments to 
prepare for the Tommies. 
"We went back to emphasizing some of the fundamentals this week in practice," said Smith. "We worked more on our puck control and playing the body. Basically, we hope to solidify ourselves as far as sticking with a system both offensively and defensively." 
Co-captain Bob Thebeau, who 
tournament games will be played in Loyola's Alumni Gym. 
The Ramblers, in turn, had their as yet unblemished conference record dirtied with a loss to the Musketeers of Xavier as the conference season ended. To complicate m<~tters, the Irish whipped Xavier in four games in their last home game three weeks ago. 
"We have to play error-free vol­leyball this weekend to win," says Head Coach Art Lambert. "It's a tough assignment. but we can do it if 
GIVE SOMEONE A TAN FOR CHRISTMAS 
Ask about our X-Mas special~ 
TAN--HAWAIIAN 
sun tonnirg sam 
2n-1o26 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 
VISA&: MASTERCARD 

DARBY'S 
for late night munchies ... 
a{,N:Jj,~ O' ~,"' v~ 
-~~~-­
---~"'"" 
injured his shoulder la.'it weekend, will not see action against the Tommies. In his absence, the Irish have had to make some changes in the lineup. 
Freshman center Mike McNeill has moved back to defense along with Foley. Junior Jeff Badalich has been switched from right wing on the third line to center in McNeill's place. Sophomore Rich Kennedy is on the right wing. Tom Parent will miss his second weekend of action with a separated shoulder. Freshman Mark Anquillare will once again cen­ter the second line with Steve Whitmore and Dave Waldbillig. 
"Lefty has done a lot for us and he's returning home so we hope we can bounce back and win two for him," said Whitmore. "In any case this is an important series for us. They will be a tough team and we must get things going again." 
After four games, senior co­captain Brent Chapman is on top of the Irish scoring chart. He has ten points on four goals and six assists. Unemate Tim Reilly is second with two goals and seven assists. Thebeau is the third highest with four goals and three assists. 
Smith has yet to decide which of his goalies will see action tonight and tomorrow. Tim Lukenda has played in three of the four games thus far and is expected to see action at least once. AI Haverkamp, who has played once, and Marc Guay are the other two possible starters. 
we want it badly enough to work hard." 
"We've had two weeks off, and that has given our people some time to heal," says Lambert. " Mary Jo Hensler had a sprained ankle, but she should be ready by Friday." 
Even with a strong and healthy squad, the Irish will have to play solid and consistent volleyball to be victorious. Setters Mary Mclaughlin and Jill Suglich will have a large say in this matter. 
Irish goalie Tim Lukenda deflects a shot in preseason practice. Lukenda is slated to start in the Notre Dame nets in at least one of the games atSt. Thomas, as the hockey team attempts to improve on its 2-2 record. Ed Domanskypreviews the weekend series at left. 

10" off special deals for groups of 1 0 or more for dinner 
$1 sandwiches In lounge nightly 
MR. D's 
1516 N.lronwood south Bend 


233-7747 Ron Delaere 


Friday, November 16, 1984 -·page 23 
Doonesbury 

Garry Trudeau 
5UR£,t4HYNOT? LET's SE:t.. PAUL LtJMtB?£. Y£5, 
tuHO 7H& TH& JfAN!.It Ge/OT. PI8RRE SIR 
HfilL ARE: /(!TOleN 8f/?6tR.. AIJRIENN/3 
TH&Y7 STAFF 
O:AR.CY. IMPR£59Vt3 \ 
\ \ 
LINt-UP, HON&Yl 


Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 


Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


Oil MY 111t
Wf1.1_ Wf~f 
WE.'/?6 {;(WNf.6fJ... KIPPIN& 

A~EP~~
NOT OHMY 11 ume. 
K/Pfl!N&. 

~p~~ ttmA'u 
f 'KJti'V£ ~ f 




The Daily Crossw-ord 
ACROSS 41 Greetings 5 Polynesian 
1 Golden­42-monster islands (Drake's 43 Move 6 Bedizen ship) obliquely 7 Herb 

5 Bruilian 44 Classical 8 The two dance manuscript 10 Lowland 45 Soon 
9 Tennis ace 

14 Frankfurt's 
10 Better 
river 
47 Quantity 11 Improperly

15 Farewell, 
of paper 12 Covered 
Juan 
49 Throughout with downy

16 Vent 
the ages particles

17 Food shop 
55 Gossip

18 March, 13 Qijon
56 Position 
for one 

57 Miserly season 19 Amerce 21 Sustained
59 Gaelic 

20 To an ulti· 
60 Char 
mateadvan· 
61 Victim of 
tage 
Pizarro 
22 Harass

23 Slim 
25 Youthful attendant24 On-62 Unwanted street plant 

25 Lost color 63 Questioned 26 Superannu· 
28 Littoral 64 Yemen a ted 
31 Substitute seaport 27 Dilatory for gelatin 28 Wire 32 In short DOWN 29 Mountain: supply 1 Bricklay· comb. form 34 Commercials er's gear 37 Prevails 2 Thought 30 Deeds against 3 Dickens' 32 Molt 40 Netherlands heroine 33 Small room city 4 Ollmer. 34 Gobi-like 

Wednesday's Solution 
35 Distribute 47 Scope 
36 Tunisian 48 Ceased port 
38 Abstract 50 Gr. moun· entity lain 
39 Excessive 51 Elevator self-OCCU· man oation 52 Humid 
53 Furnish 54 Tatting

43 Classified 44 Rake 
55 Moisture 

45 Burning 46 Scandinll· 58 Tried for vian election 
"Come and get tt! Cooooome and get It! ... It's not going to get any more raw, y'know." 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Campus 
Friday, Nov. 16 

•Nov. 
16 -Dec. 13 -Art Exhibitions, Tom Meuninck, Ceramic Installation, Hammes Gallery, Regional Student Competition , Moreau and Little Theatre Galleries., 

•11 
a.m. -3 p.m. -jobs&: Volunteering in Ser­vice Organizations, PACT (Private Agencies Col­laborating Together), James O'Brien, library Concourse, Sponsored by Career & Placement Services and Center for Social Concerns, Free. 

•1 
:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Design and Our Future," James Hofman, Chief Designer, Spatus Industrial, Room 200 Art Building, Sponsored by Notre Dame Industrial Designers, Free. 

•3:25 
p.m. -Condensed Matter Seminar, "Semiconductor Superlattices," Dr. A. E. Blakeslee, Solar Energy Research Institute, Room 118 Nieuwland, Sponsored by Physics Dept. 

•3:30 
p.m.-Seminar, "Fluid Motion Inside a Spin­ning, Nutating Cylinder," Dr. William Oberkampf, Sandia National Laboratories, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•3:30-6:30p.m.-Senior 
Class Northeast Neigh~ borhood Block Party, ACC Fieldhouse, Gate 3. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Reilly Lecture, "The Regulation of Glycoprotein Processing," Prof. Phillips Robbins, Room 123 Nieuwland, Sponsored by Chemistry Dept. 

•4:45-6:45p.m.-Sale 
ofWomen ofND Calen­dar, North & South Dining Halls, Sponsored by Holy Cross Hall, 17. 

•7 
p.m.-Pep Rally, Stepan Center. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.-Film, "Brian's Song," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board & Senior Formal Committee, St. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Black Studies Fllm, "Sugar Cane Al­ley," Memorial Library Auditorium, Free. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night FUm Series, "The Meadow," Annenbenz Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -ND/SMC Dance Theatre, Student Dance Concert, Regina Hall Dance Studio, $1, Open to Public. 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, The Fixx, ACC. 

•8: 
1 5 p.m. -Concert, Notre Dame Glee Club, Washington Hall. 

•1 
0 p.m. & 12 a.m. -Rocky Horror Picture Show, Stepan Center. 


Saturday, Nov. 17 

•8 
a.m. -3 p.m. -Educational Service Examina­tion, Engineering Auditorium. 

•9 
a.m.-6:45p.m.-Sale ofWomen ofND Calen­dar, ACC North Dome, Huddle, South Dining Hall, Sponsored by Holy Cross Hall, 17. 

•12:20 
p.m.-Football, NO vs. Penn State., 

•After 
NO/Penn St. Game -Senior/Parent Din­ner, South Dining Hall, Student With Meal Plan­Free, Parents · 16. 

•7, 
9 & 1 1 p.m. -Film, "Brian's Song," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board & Senior Formal Committee, S1. 

• 
9 p.m. & 12 a.m.-Rocky Horror Picture Show, Stepan Center. 


Sunday, Nov. 18 

•1 
. 4 p.m. -Opening Art Exhibition, Richard Gray (NO), Photographs and Collages, O'Shaughnessy Gallery, Until Dec. 30. 

•4 
p.m. -Concert, Notre Dame Chamber Or­chestra , Annenberg Auditorium. 

•4:30 
-6:30 p.m. -Ticket Sales, Shakespeare Christmas Festival, North & South Dining Halls, Sponsored by Shakespeare Society. 

•6:30 
p.m. -CILA General Meedog, Center for Social Concerns. 


J j j J j 
J 
4 
j j 
4 
4 
l l 
j l 
~ 
I 
j I 
l 
l 
l 
j 
l j l 
~ 

:•·,~~T~ifT•fN•o•M~~~~~~~,~~t••: 
: THE : 
: Rocky Horror Picture Show : 
• at • 
: STEPAN CENTER : 
• 9:00 and 12 midnight $1.00 •



NCAA tourney finals ahead for Notre Dame cross-country team 
-
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame cross country team, which is currently ranked 13th in the latest national coaches' poll, culminates one of its best seasons ever with the NCAA Cross Country Championships at Penn State on Monday, November 19 at 11 a.m. 
The Irish will compete against 21 other teams for the national champi­onship. Irish head coach Joe Piane feels all the teams in the field are strong, but reveals that several teams stand out above the rest. 
"Wisconsin is the number one team in the country now, and Iowa State has been up there all year," 
Piane  explains.  "Arizona  and  
Arkansas  will  be  excellent,  while  
Clemson also will be strong."  

Going into the race, Piane and the team have hopes of further improv­ing its ranking in the polls and attain-

Kempton, Barlow score 20 
Offense spurs Irish rout of Zadar 
ByPHILWOLF 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team, making its first official appear· ance in uniform, defeated the Zadar Club of Yugoslavia in an exhibition game last night in the ACC. 
The Irish were able to generate enough offense to run up 103 points in the contest, but the Notre Dame defense gave up 86 points to the visiting Yugoslavians. 
The score was close for the first five minutes of play, but the Irish opened up at that point and began to run away with the game. At halftime, they owned a 23-point adavantage at 58-35. 
In the second half, however, Notre Dame failed to execute its of­fense effectively while also provid­ing the Yugoslavians with several opportunities to get back in the game. 
"In the first half I thought we played with a lot of intensity," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "I thought we ran well. In the second half I give them (the Irish) an 'F' on ing more well deserved national recognition. 

"There are 28'; Division I schools in the country, and right now we have one of the top 22 teams," Piane said. "Things are going well for us now, and so I feel a top ten finish is a realistic objective." 
The Irish reached the NCAA 
championships by capturing the· 
fourth and final qualifying spot at the 
NCAA District IV Qualifying Meet 
last Saturday at Illinois. The team 
scored 13 1 points and finished be­
hind Wisconsin, Illinois, and Mic­
higan. 
Freshman Dan Garrett led the 
Irish with a 15th-place finish. Sopho­
more Mike Collins and senior Tim 
Cannon placed 21st and 23rd 
respectively. Senior co-captain Bill 
Courtney finished 38th, while 
senior Ed Willenbrink rounded out 
the Irish scoring with a 44th-place 
finish. 
defense; I give them an 'F' on inten­sity; I give them an 'F' on offensive execution." 
The Irish scored first in the con­test when Ken Barlow won the opening tip, which was recovered by Jim Dolan. Dolan passed off to David Rivers, who was open under the Notre Dame basket for an easy layup. 
Rivers' basket, his first in a Notre Dame uniform. sent the crowd of 10,532 into a frenzy. Rivers, the highly touted freshman point guard for the Irish, entertained the crowd for most of the evening with his ex­cellent ballhandling skills. 
The six-footer from jersey City, N.J., finished the game with 19 points and three assists. His shooting percentage was not as good as Phelps would have liked, however, as he hit only seven of his 21 field­goal attempts. 
"For his first game, I'm not too worried about that (shooting pecentage )," Phelps said. "I think he learned some things tonight." 
Among those things that Rivers learned, Phelps said, was that he 
Senior co-captain Jim Tyler and juniorJohn Magill, while not scoring for Notre Dame, placed 56th and I 12th respectively. 
The Irish arranged a different strategy for this meet. 
"Last week at the District IV's we went out hard because we wanted everybody to be in the top 30," Piane indicated. "However, the NCAA's will be different so we only want everyone to be in the top one­third." 
"To do well and finish in the top ten we have to run an intelligent race," Piane said. "We want to run conservatively in the beginning so we can keep a high level of intensity for all 10,000 meters." 
The Irish have run consistently and as a team all year. 'These qualities contributed to their undefeated record and incredible success. Ifthe runners continues to run as they've done all year, then their goal ofa top ten finish is very likely. 
must adjust his shot against bigger players. The Yugoslavians, whose average height is 6-6, gave Rivers a lot of trouble when he tried to pene­trate the middle for shots. 
Also impressive for the Irish last night were Ken Barlow and Tim Kempton, who each had 20 points to lead all scorers. Kempton pulled down 13 rebounds to go with his 
see IRISH, page 19 

Planner wins interhall soccer title 
The interhall soccer champion­ship was decided last night in the bitter cold of Cartier Field when Flanner defeated Off-Campus, 2-0, to take the title. Flanner scored both of its goals in the first half and held on in the second to pull off what was regarded as a minor up­set. 
The game was decided early in the first half when Hanner's Tom Bowser got his foot on a loose ball about 20 yards away from the Off­

;&'i 
lllc Obscrvcr/Chaltanya Panchal 
Senior Tim Cannon, left, senior co-captain jim Tyler, right, and the other members ofthe Irish cross-country team travel to Penn State on Monday to compete in the finals of the NOtA Cross Country Tournament, hoping for a top-ten finish. Notre Dame's fourth-place standing in the DistrictIVmeeteanzedita berth in the finals. Nick Schrantzpreviews the meetat left. 
Campus goal and booted it into the upper left corner of the net. Al­though less than eight minutes had elapsed in the game, Flanner found itselfin a very strong position. 
"After we scored the first goal, we really weren't looking for more," said Flanner captain Mike Etling. "We've got a pretty good defense, so we thought we could make that first goal stand up. We just concentrated on clearing the ball out of our end. We figured we could sit on the lead, but, as things worked out, we didn't." 
Flanner, in fact, increased the lead with about three minutes left in the half. The 0-C goalie blocked an indirect kick by Greg Wright of Flanner, but Wright got the, rebound and scored to increase the lead to 2-0. 
'The cold weather and, espe­cially, the strong wind made Off-
see SOCCER, page 18 
~' \ 
( _', 
~ ' ( 
~ 
The end of a tough four seasons 
Three years and 20 home games ago, the Class of 1985 filed into Notre Dame Stadium for its first home game a~ part of the Notre Dame student section. For seniors like myself, it was a moment that will never be forgotten. 
The weather was beautiful as the Irish ran out 'onto the field for the first time ever behind Gerry Faust. L.S.U. ("L.S.Who?" according to T-shirts that were popular that week) was the first opponent. The Tigers brought a huge inflatable mascot with them, but the Irish promptly deflated the visitors. L.S.U. fumbled on its first possession and the Notre Dame offense took over. Numerous players went in motion on the first play and the student body went crazy. Notre Dame won easily, 27-9, and moved to No.1 in the nation in the polls which came out a few days later. 
Imagine the thrill for a group offreshmen who, within a few weeks of entering college, found themselves at the school with the best football team in the land. It was time to start planning for New Orleans and the Sugar Bowl. 
Recently, this memory almost seems like a dream. 
It is hard to imagine after four disappointing seasons that NO was once the No. 1 team in the country. Now it's cause for celebration to even be in the Top 20 at all. 
It is hard to imagine that Gerry Faust was once the most popular man on campus. Students used to tell how Faust would come share a pizza with them in their rooms. Now some hang him in effigy. 
It is hard to imagine that Notre Dame fans not only ex­pected the Irish to win, but to destroy the opponent. Now we're happy to beat Navy by a point. 
It is hard to imagine that the students once felt that they 
Mike Sullivan 
Sport> l rl!-tor 

could play a large part in an Irish victory. Now the team plays better on the road than at home. 
But, most of all, it is hard to imagine that tomorrow's game will be our last as students in Notre Dame Stadium. Despite the disappointments of the past four years, there will be some tears and sentimentality in Sections 28 and 29 tomorrow. Football has always been a big part of a Notre Dame student's life and will always remain so. 
Undoubtedly, however, there will be some other emo­tions among the seniors tomorrow. There will be some relief that four seasons of unfulfilled hopes and expecta­tions finally will be over. And, for a minority, there will be anger caused by the team's and the coaches' failures on the field. 
The last four years have, indeed, been tough on just about everybody -students, players, and administration ­but they may be the most valuable years ever for Notre Dame, its students, alumni, and extended family. 
The last four years have taught Notre Dame people an invaluable lesson: Never take wtnningforgranted. There is no arguing that the seniors' four-year span has 
been a humbling experience for all who call themselves Notre Dame fans. The attitude of invincibility that seemed to be such a large part of Notre Dame football earned ND many enemies. Now these people are making the Notre Dame supporters eat their words -and rightly so. 
There was a time when teams like Navy and Air Force were shown no respect by Irish fans who felt that there was no way they should be able to stay close. The question was not, "Will Notre Dame win?" but rather "How much will Notre Dame win by?" It wasn't good enough to beat Navy. The Irish had to beat them convincingly. It was as if the opponents had nothing to do with the game. IfNotre Dame played well, it would romp over all but the toughest teams. Ifnot, the Irish would win by very little. 
Recent experience has told us not to take anybody lightly. When you don't win every game, you learn to ap­preciate every win. 
No, God did not make Notre Dame No. 1 on the football field like some people used to believe. But, then, maybe the past four years have been a message that people at Notre Dame were taking the game a bit too seriously? It is wrong when a loss in a football game sends a campus into mourn­ing. Fortunately, people are starting to put everything into perspective and to realize that it is just a football game, not a personal indictment of them, 
No, neither Gerry Faust nor the football team has spoiled the fun of the past four years. In fact, they may have helped teach us and other true Notre Dame fans an important les­sen. You don't win all the time, or maybe even most ofthe time, so cherish those times when you do. 







