1983's music -page 6 
McBrien re-appointed to theology post after receiving concessions 
ByJOHN NEBLO "He recognized that, sized things up; News Staff he's the best administrator I've ever worked for." 
A new theology building and an When first offered the position of increased theology dcpanmcnt dcpanmcnt chairman, McBrien was budget arc among concessions not interested."! was very happy Father Richard P. McBrien has ·back at Boston College running the received from the University in ex­Institute there. I wasn't interested in change for agreeing to stay on as just another dcpanmcnt chairman­theology dcpanment chairman for ship." That was before Father Hes­three more years. burgh prevailed upon McBrien to 
McBrien joined the University as come out and visit the campus him­
dcpanmcnt chairman in the fall of self "I came out to Notre Dame, met 
1980 after being heavily recruited with the Provost and the Dean ofthe 
by the University administration and College, and interviewed some of 
by University President Father the people in the theology depart­
Theodore Hcsburgh. His appoint­ment. By the time I left, they had 
ment three years ago was a major convinced me that they really 
part of the University's effort to im­wanted me and were serious about 
prove the theology depanment. improving the theology department. 
According to William Storey, The University promised to make director of the depanmcnt's Mas­the necessary resources available so ter's program, the hiring of McBrien I accepted." was "a tremendous coup" because "he knows personally every sig­The resources to which McBrien nificant Catholic theologian in the referred included five additional United States and Canada and has a endowed chairs giving the depart­genius for recruiting. That is the ment a total of six, more than any most important thing he can do for other depanmcnt in the University; us. It can be very difficult to get top three more teaching postttons; scholars to come to South Bend." several full-time secretaries and 
Storey also praised McBrien's ad­more office space. McBrien said minstrativc skill-;. "This place was 
see McBRIEN page 4 

primitive organizationally," he said. Organizers call a halt to the Nestle boycott 
Speda1 to the Observer boycott committee will meet in 
Mexico City on Feb. 2 to ratify the 
Leaders of a seven-year-old agreement with the Swiss-based American boycott against Nestle, company. the world's principal supplier of in­Douglas A johnson, executive limt formula, announced Friday, in a chairman of the Infant Formula Ac­report published in New York tion Coalition, which organized Times, that they had suspended both American and international their protest after reaching an ac­boycotts of Nestle chocolate and cord with the company over its other products, said it was almost marketing practices in developing certain the other American groups countries. that endorsed the boycott would 
Members of the international now end their sanctions. 

..­
There are many ways ofspending a Sunday after­noon, but waiting in line for hours and still not get­ting Keenan Revue tickets, like the students above, is 
probably notone ofthe mostenjoyable. Most ofthose 
'in Chautauqua Ballroom did get tickets, but not with­out at least a three-hour wait. Cathy Rollersaid ofthe waits, "It's a tradition. It's not so bad ifyou bring something to do." 
I 


Lines a Keenan Revue tradition 
ByJOHN DREW Zoldak, a senior, arrived at the record store at I0:30 NewsStaff a.m. Apparently Zoldak had no sooner rolled out of bed when he was headed for LaFortune. Zoldak said, The crowd of about 2,000, many of whom had "I made up my mind that I was going to get tickets no been waiting for hours, rose to its feet when he en­matter what it took, but I came prepared with com­tered LaFortune Student Center yesterday. puter games, homework and a newspaper." Despite 
It was not, however, the short guy wearing the his plans, these activities were exhausted before the pinstriped suit and dark glasses that the crowd was tickets arrived, leaving Zoldak patiently waiting. after. They were more interested in the contents of Although Zoldak arrived first, it was senior joe the heavily guarded suitcase he was carrying. Jehring who managed to acquire the first ticket to 
What were the precious contents, you ask? Well, the show. Jehring admitted he knowingly inside the suitcase were approximately 1,000 tickets manuevcrcd into the number one spot. After receiv­for the Wednesday, Friday and Saturday showings of ing the first ticket Jehring said, "This can only the ever-popular Keenan Revue. 
The first student on the scene was David Zoldak. see KEENAN page 4 


Problems nonexistent at mother's weekend 
ByMARYJACOBY 
News Staff 
The Junior Mother's Weekend at Saint Mary's, held this past weekend, was successful despite earlier fears that it would be overcrowded. 
Those fears were mostly rumors. according to co-chairpersons Patti Drabick and Lorrie Clark. "We were a little apprehensive at first." said Clark. "But it turned out fine." 
Response was enthusiastic to all of the planned events, and Drabick and Clark were "very pleased" with the weekend overall. "I think it went 
~eat," said Drabick. 
The most popular event seemed .o be Saturday night's dinner at the Americana Hotel, with approximate­ly 450 persons in attendance. The Shenanigans provided entertain­ment, performing in each of the two

Saint Mary'sjuniors Mary Durkin, secondfrom left, 
one of the more crowded events, but help from the Americana staff along with numbered tables and a seating chart averted any problems. 
Other events included a welcome reception Friday night. a panel of women speaking on the subject of alternative livestyles Saturday morn­ing, and a fashion and beauty show Saturday evening at the Americana. 
Saturday's panel consisted of four women who told the Carroll Hall audience of 75 about their lives and professions while offering their own advice. Those speaking included Dr. 
Mid DePauw, director of the career 
counseling department; Sister Basil 
Anthony, assistant to the vice presi­
dent; Leslie Wilson, director of the 
alumni office; and Dr. Karilee Wat­
son, a professor in the education 
department. 
The fashion and beauty show w~~ 

and Cheryl Miller, right enjoy the luncheon atjunior and Pat Durkin. For more details on the weekend, see rooms holding diners. 
see SMC page 4 

Mother's Weekend with their mothers GailMiller, left, article at right. The dinner was expected to be 
The Observer 


In Brief 
The Notre Dame Victory March. written at­
most HO years ago. has since: be:en used for t<mtball, basketball, drink· ing, singing, and c:ven for waking up the echoes. But rarely for catching criminals. Milton and Laverne Rl'iterman of San Francisco Wt:rt· returning from a Mexican dinner when they saw what ap· peart·d to ht· a mugging. "My wife yelled, 'Don't do that,"' Rciterman told the San Francisco Examiner. The Rcitermans gave chase with the: Notre Dame tight song blaring out on the car's musical hom to attract attention. When Rciterman caught up with the suspect, he "jumped out, grabbed him and punched him in the ribs." Other passers-by helped corner the suspect who police believe had robbed a woman while she: was making a night deposit of receipts. Todd 
johnson faces two felony counts ofrobbery. As for Reiterman, he has ht-cn recommended tbr a citation by the San Francisco police:. "It was a natural reaction," said Rciterman, a non-alumnus of Notre Dame who owns the special (.'ar hom. "I didn't think whether he had a gun; I was just outraged."-The Observer 
Should student government officials 
get paid? This question -along with questions about the upcoming report on alcohol -are on the agenda for tonight's meeting of the Student Senate. The Senate, led hy Student Body Presideni Brian Callaghan. will meet tonight at 6 in Room 118, Hayes-Healy. -The Observer 
Candidates for student body president and 
vice president will be meeting tonight at 7 in the Little Theatre of Lafortune Student Center to discuss election rules. Senate can­didatt·s will meet at H p.m. Petitions for office will be due on Feb. 6, and the elections take place on feb. I 4. -The Observer 
The LaFortune Student Center has begun 
using a computerized schc:duling system. All n:quests for space and room rest·rvations an: now handlc:d in the: Student Activities office, 1st floor, hctwec:n H a.m. and noon, and between I p.m. and 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. For met'lings, reservations should he made at least thrn· days in advance; for events in Chautauqua and the Nazz, at kast two wc:eks art· rt·quirc:d. The Little Theatre can seat HH pt·ople, and the newly rc:modded New Orleans Room (the South 
Akon·) is c:quippt·d to handle small group mc:etings, seminars and rt'l'eptions. -The Obsen•er 
Of Interest 
The national presidentOfWomen Exploited by 
Abortion. Lori Jo Nc:rad, will speak ahout the: organization tonight at H in the auditorium of the Mc:morial Library. WEBA is a group of womt·n who have had ahortions and have come to regret their deci· sion. Nt·rad hersdfhad an abortion eight years ago and now calls her ahortion "the most ddmmanizing and degrading experience on the fatT of this l'arth." Nt·rad's address kicks off the fund-raising cam­paign li1r tht· Women's Care Center ofSouth lknd. -The Observer 
Father William Beauchamp. assistant to the 
llniversity t'Xt-cutin· vitT president, will spt·ak tonight at 7 in Cavanaugh Hall ahout possible change~ in the rniversity alcohol policy. The talk is sponsornl hy the hall's academic commission. -
Tbe Ohsen•er 

Weather 
Awinterstonn warning in etrect through this morning. A near I00 pncent chant'l' li1r snow with total accumulations 3 to 6 int·hc:s. StHllt' blowing and drifting snow. Highs in the .20s. Falling tt·n1peratures in the al'tt-rnoon. Cloudy and cold at night with a 40 pntTnt (:hant'l' for snowshowers. Low in the teens. Becoming partly sunny tomorrow and cold. lligh in the low .20s. -AP 
The.Obsen!er__ 
Monday,)anuary 30, 1983-page 2 



Serving its readers 
Did you know that the seven-year-old boycott against Nestle was suspended by its leaders jan. 26? Or that prominent American Jews asked Pope John Paul II to investigate allegations that the Catholic hierarchy played a role in the emigration ofNazis after World War II? Or that in Ann Arbor, Mich., the trial of a family accused of enslaving two retarded men for more than ten years on a Michigan farm began Jan. 26? Ifyou read The New York Times last Friday you do. 
Rather, if you read The Observer on that same day, you know the Notre Dame Food Service won the Ivy award, an outline of the University's Mexico program, and that the managing editor of the Fort Wayne News­Sentinel pulled "The Far Side" from the paper because it showed "the humor ofviolence." 
The New York Times contains "all the news that's fit to print." On weekdays it averages 40-50 pages. The Ob­server is "the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." Its length averages 12 pages. 
Often it is questioned tions. For this reason The whether The Observer ade­Observer does include some quately covers the news. outside news depending on Should this student space and news available. newspaper devote itself On Friday, for example, The completely to local, on­Observer did report the campus news, or should the downing of a French fighter meat of the paper be nation· jet in Chad, the Soviet Uni­al and international news as on's delivery of a frigate and reported by the Associated submarine to Cuba and that Press? With its readership in the president of Lebanon mind the management of reinstated "Druse soldiers The Observer has decided on who refused to tight in civil a policy somewhere be­warfare in September." tween the two extremes. · The Observer is proud of 
Some major Notre Dame its reporting of campus publications include Notre news and is always working Dame Magazine, The to improve that reporting. Dome, Scholastic, The jug­There is more campus 
gler and The Obsen,er. Ofall of these, only The Obsen,er provides students, faculty and staff with dai~)' coverage of local news and sports, editorials, a space for letters to the editor, and features. Neither does The Observer ignore national and world happenings. As a member of the Associated Press, The 
Observer docs include what its news and sports editors consider most pntinent to the paper's readership. 
For many students, The Obsen,er is the only newspaper they read, and, besides the five-minute news spots in the morning on the radio, the only news they receive all day. It is these people that request more AP in The Obsen,er. However, it is not the responsibility of the student daily publication of ND and SMC to hand­hold the student body through such a complex world. Besides the fact that it is impossible to !It the world's happenings ofa single day on 12 pages, there arc several hundred if not thousand reputable papers nationwide that do report on the world. No other publication reports on either of these two institutions of higher 

Production Consultant ....... Stt•vc Foster Design Editor ..... .......................... Troy Illig Design Assistant..................... Cheryl Pilon la)'oUI Staff Robin Brown, Willit· Suara 
& Liz Carroll Typesellers . .................... Michdlc & Kevin 
Neu•s Editor......... . ........ Tom Mowk Copy Editor... . ..... Marc Ramirt·z .\ports Copy Editor... . .. Ed Konrady Features Cop}' Editor..... ......Jt:rry YounA Fea/ures L'~)·out .... ... Sarah Hamilton ND Duy Etlilur... . .......... Earl Bakt·r Ad /Jeslgn .. . ............................... Mary PhotogrclfJher........ .. . ....... Thom Bradlt·y 
The Observer (liSPS ~99 2-~000) is 
publish<·d Monday through friday and 
on hurnt• t(JOtball Saturdars. ('XCept 
during exam and vacation pt·riods. The 
Observer is published by the students of 
the l!nivt:rsity of Notre Dame anll Saint 
Mary's College. Subscriptions my be 
purchased for S2~ per year ( S 1 ~ per 
semester) by writing The Observer, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46~~6. 
The Observer is a member ofThe As­sociated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

-~-e~-t~_!_~_E_~_ito_~_m_i_lt_o_n__" 

Inside Monday 
\J­
education with such depth and breadth as The Ob­server. 
At the other end ofthe spcctrum,are those who think The Observer should not include any AP articles. In their opinion The Observer is a campus newspaper and therefore should only report on-campus happenings. In its masthead The Observer claims to be serving ND and SMC. It realizes that even ifstudents do subscribe to The New York Times, U.S. News and World Report as well as The Wall Streetjournal they do not get time every day to delve into these publica­



Editorial Board 
1:'£/ihJr-in·Cbief....... ......... David Dziedzic 
P. 0. Uu.dJ..Vutr('/Jame, J:V ·16'i'i6  ( .!I'J) .!3'J·'i303  Jfmwging Hditor ...  . .......... !VI argaret Fosmoc  
1be ( JIJS£'/Ter i~ the indepi:ndent newspaper puhlbhed hv the ~tudents of the l'ni­ E\·ecutir•e Editor  ...... Paul Mc<iinn  
n·r~itv of Notn· Daml' du l.al· and ~aint :\tan··~< :ollq.:t· It dot·~ not nt-ct·ssarih· reflect  .Veu·s Editor  .... Hob Vonderheide  
the p;llidt·s of the adminbtration of either institution. The new~ is reported as ac·  .Veu·s Editor  .. Mark \X'orschc:h  
curatch and a~ objtTtivl'lv as po~sibll'. l'nsignnl editorials reprt·st·nt the opinon ofa  Saint .Har),.S l:.tlitor ....  ..... Anne: :'llonastyrski  
majorit.y ofthe Editorial B;,anl Commentaril'~.ll'ttcrs. and the lnsidt· Column prt·st·nt  Sports Editor  ....... Michael Sullivan  
the views oftheir author~.< :olumn ~pace i~ available to allmemhers ofthe communitY.  Features l:'clitnr  ....Sarah Hamilton  
ami the frt'l' t·xprnsion ofvarving opinions on campus. through lc:tters. b ent:ouraged.  Pbuto Editor.. .......................................Scott Bower  

coverage now then in past years. financial limitations are the main reason for the restrictions on the number of AP stories that appear in The Obsen,er. If the budget allowed four more pages, more space could and would be allocated for national and international nc:ws. But until an alumnus donates several thousand dollars to the daily student newspaper of ND and SMC The Observer stands firm with its posi­tion that it provides thorough coverage ofcampus news and adequate AP news for those interested in getting the world's top stories. The newspaper's man~cment sees this as the hcst way in which to serve its rclders. 
*************************** 

:  Buy '  :  
a  OtJserver  a  
:  Classifieds  :  
*  *  


···················~·····* 
The ND Student Players 
will be holding 


AUDITIONS 
for 

CAMELOf 
on Wednesday, Feb. I, at 7:00p.m. in Washington Hall and on Thursday, Feb. 2, at 7:30p.m. 

in the Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, SMC For actors, singles, and dancers No Experience Necessary 

DepartmentManagers 
Business Manager .................Christopher Owen 
Controller..................  ......... Aic:x Szilva.~  
Adr•erlising .\tanager  .........kanie Pook  
Circulation ,'\1mwger..  ...... Mark :\liotto  
.\)•stems Jfmwger ..  .......... Kt·vin \1i illiam~  


Founded November 3, 1966 
~ 
.The Observer 

D-6 parking permits issued to all applicants 
Special to The Observer 
Temporary parking stickers for Lot D-6 have been issued to 40 South Quad students. 
Sign-ups were held last week with the intention of holding a lottery, said Dave McAvoy, student senator for the district containing D-6. But there ended up being enough spaces to accommodate all those who signed up. 
The students, from four men's dorms, need to pick up their permits at the Security Office behind Haggar 
Hall. 
The 40 spaces became available when the golf shop closed for the winter. The permits are valid until April 19 when golf opens for the summer. 
Here is the list: 
Fisher Hall Rich Rosales, Tom Riley, Mike Harvey, Ted Gorrie, Vaughn Emery, Mark Czac­howski. 
Howard Hall Kevin Campo, Don LaMonica, Harry J. Baird, Dan Mulhall, John Christ, Matt McCarty, Bill Clifford, Chris Barille, Todd Tyner, Kevin O'Rear. 
Morrissey Hall Jim Landsman, Keith Rosnell, Bob Fink, Dave Place, Matt Zapf, Patt Murray, John Marvin, Mike Yuknas, Neil Maune, Brian Golden, ChrisJohnson. 
Pangborn Hall Kevin Poling, Paul Thieken, Tom Gotsch, David Durbala, Tom Patzelt, Dave Wil­son, Tom Calcagnini, Tom Ryan, Alan Targgart, John Paskowski, Tony Piccin, David Booth. 

Monday,January 30, 1983-page 3 

Six Circle K-ers circle in discussion at the Midwest attended by almost 200 Circle K-ers from more than Leadership Training Conference at the Center for ten states, was led by Tim Clipson from the Texas­Continuing Education last weekend. The conference, Oklahoma District ofCircle K 


Care center drfve begins tonight 
By BILL KRAIS for the new center. The center, to be a new center was felt once Birth News Staff located near St. Joseph's Hosital, will Right of South Bend wa.; closed last open this March. The center will summer. 
The national president of Women provide free pregnancy testing and Funds and other necessities have ~xploited by Abortion, Lori Jo professional counseling. A full staff not been much of a problem, Nerad, will kick off a fundraising of volunteers will work with the according to May. Father Theodore campaign for a women's care center director, who has yet to be named. Hesburgh, University president, has b f speaking tonight at 8 in the The Care Center, an idea of the donated $2000. The house which ' .emorial Library Auditorium. Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to will be used as the center was a gift 
The campaign, sponsored by Life, has become a reality only of from an unnamed donor. The idea :lotre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to late. According to Right to Life Vice behind the upcoming fund raiser is Life, is designed to help the newly­President John May, the organiza­to enable N.D./S.M.C. students to formed Women's Care Cen­tion, in conjunction with faculty ad­donate a gift to the center. May ter/Pregnancy Help Center. visorJanet Smith, other Notre Dame pointed out that off-campus stu­Members will go door to door on and Saint Mary's faculty, and South de~lts could donate as well by sen­campus within the next week in the Bend citizens, contrived the idea ofa ding all contributions to P.O. Box hope ofcollecting more than $6,000 new center last spring. The need for 664, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Following this fund , raiser the group will continue to seek con­

SENIORS 
tributions. In late March or early April the center will hold a phone-a­

The most exciting weekend of your 
thon, calling I0,000 South Bend 

Senior Year is fast approaching 
residents. They will also publish ad­vertisements in national Catholic

THE 1984 SENIOR FORMAL 
and Right to Life publications. They

Aprll13-14 at the Palmer House in Chicago 
have set a goal of SIOO,OOO for this Help choose the theme for this big event 
fund raiser. With these added funds the center hopes to add more Submit ideas Feb. 1-3 to ND/SMC Student Activities 
salaried staff members and another Office 
house for single mothers. The center has received enthusiastic support by

Prize for winning theme is dinner for 2 at Jeremiah Sweeney'sGET PSYCHED!! 
the local diocese and Bishop McManus. 



SAVE $70 · $100°0 
*Sale starts Tues., Jan. 31 while quantities last *Full and Queen Size *9 different patterns available in floral, plaid, and solid *FREE DELIVERY in South Bend, Mishawaka, Osceola, Elkhart 
Goshen & Niles Goodwill Plaza Eddy and Howard Streets 921 N Eddy Mon-Thur.s 9-7 Fri 9-8 Sat 9-6 

is accepting applications for the position of 



Editor-in-Chief. 
All ND/SMC undergraduates are eligible. Deadline is 5 p.m. February 3. Contact David Dziedzic for info. 

Take a step 

!Jeyond The Far Side 
Meet cartoonist Gary Larson at: The Hammes 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
Tuesday, January 31 
1:00 to 3:00 p.m. 
1 


lecture 8:00 p.m. 
Memorial Library Auditorium 
A 10-week structure group will meet two evenings weekly beginning 

Eating Disorders 
• 
Anorexia Nervosa Feb. 28 on the Notre Dame campus. 

• 
Bulimia SYMPTOMS Note: Not all victims display all symptoms 

•
Abnormal weight loss *Refusal to eat, except for tiny portions *Binge eating •vomiting 

•
Abuse of laxatives, diuretics, emetics, 




or diet pills *Denial of hunger *Excessive exercise Distorted body image:see themsleves as 
fat though actually thin 
• 
Depression 

•Preoccupation 
with food 

•
Absent of irregula~ menstruation in women 




__j 

The Observer Monday,January 30, 1983--page 4 





McBrien 
continuedfrom page 1 
he had known for some time about 
the administration's intention to 
reappoint him and was prepared not 
to accept the job if the University 
would not support his plans for the 
future. "Administration is so time· 
consuming that it can ruin you as a 
theologian. I wanted to continue 
writing and there just wasn't enough 
time to do both." 
According to McBrien, however, 
the University administration con· 
tinues to be very supportive of his 
plans. The biggest and most costly of 
his plans, a new theology building, 
ha~ been placed on the University 
Jenkynamed to Campus Ministry post 
Special to rbe Observer 
Fatht·r Daniel R. Jenky, rector of 
Sacred Heart Church, has been ap· 
pointed director of Notre Dame's 
Office of Campus Ministry by Prof. 
Timothy O'Meara, University 
provost. 
"Father Jenky's experience of 
Notre Dame student life is extensive 
and intimate," said O'Meara, "and 
suits him for this very important 
position." 
Jenky graduated from Notre Dame in 1970 and completed his ~aster's degree in theology while residing at Moreau Seminary. Following his ordination in 1974, he spent a year teaching social studies at Bourgade Catholic High School in Phoenix, Ariz. He ha~ served in several positions in Notre Dame's Office of Campus Ministry sim:e 1975 and was rector of Dillon Hall from that year to 19H2, when he took up residence in Alumni Hall. 
Al.Tording to Father John Van Wolvlear. University vice pn·sident for student affairs, Jenky "will ad­minister a program through which Notre Dame studcnts arc touched by the Catholk· faith. It's difficult to conceive of a mort· crucial respon· sihility and a more: competent per· son to mect it." 
Campus Ministry supervises the liturgical life and pao;toral care ofthc University community. It schedules the I S9 Masses celebrated each week in the lnivcrsity's residence hall chapels, administers marriage preparation programs. sponsors stu· 
dent retreats and religious educa­tion seminars, and provides a variety ofcounseling servic:es. 
jenky will sul·ceed Father David Schlaver, who left the position to become editor and publisher at Ave Maria Press. 
building list and funding for it is now being sought. In the interim, McBrien has been promised double the curn:nt administrative space for the department and a student· faculty lounge for the next semester. A larger operating budget, including funds for more secretaries and staff and special scholarship money for 
M.A. students has also been promised by the administration. 
According to McBrien, "Notre Dame is the only place I know that has the resources to become better than it is now ....We have an op· portunity here to serve the Church in a capacity that doesn't exist anywhere else in the U.S. The sup· port is there." 
McBrien has agreed to stay for an· other three-year term with a one-semester sabbatical. If he stays a fourth year, he may extend his sab· batical to a full year. 

Take a byte
out of the cost 






a computer. 
In a few days you'll be able to buy Apple computers 
right here on campus at pig discounts. The new 
General Microcomputer store will provide a great 
opportunity to take advantage of state-of-the-art 
technology at special prices. 
The Notre Dame Credit Union is offering special 
rates. too, in conjunction with this exciting new 
concept. Members may take out a loan to purchase a 
computer at a low 14% APR. It's just one of the 
advantages of belonging to this up-to-date financial 
cooperative. If you're not yet a .mer:nber. stop in 
today and find out how easy it is to join. 
14°/_, COMPUTER LOAN 
Finance under $2000 for up to 2 years. Finance over $2000 for up to 3 years. 
"}' 
Tbrrington Branch 3509 W ..Sample Street 
219/289-2827 

Keenan 
continuedfrom page 1 

compare with the front row seats I had at the Loverboy concert." 
Students wandered into 
LaFortune throughout the day, ad· 
ding to the ever-growing line. The 
string of bodies meandered its way 
from the record store upstairs into 
the Chautauqua Ballroom, past Stu· 
dent Government offices and on up 
to the third floor by the Observer 
office. 

The wait was a long one for most, 
but those who were determined to 
get tickets were willing to endure 
the wait. Senior Marty Ellis said, "My 
friends and I are prepared to wait a 
couple of days if we have to. I've 
seen the show before and it's worth 
the wait." 

Junior Jackie Taggart had a slight· 
ly different reason for waiting. "I saw 
someone taking pictures of 
scrambled eggs and shoes in the 
dining hall and he said it was for the 
Keenan Revue. I'm dying to see how 
they incorporate the two in the 
show." 
One group of students found 
boardgames were the answer to pas· 
sing the time. Sheila Higgings, speak· 
ing as spokesperson for a group 
playing Trivial Pursuit, commented, 
"The crowd was really good. 
Everyone was playing cards, board 
games, or doing homework. It was a 
lot better than waiting for Billy Joel 
tickets." 
One reason for this may have been that students, this time, did not have to wait outside. Said senior Steve Abowd, who has been involved with the show for the past three years, "The original plan was to have the 
YOUNG DEMOCRATS 
General Meeting 
I• 

7:00. New Orleans Room, LaFortune 
line extend outside the front door, but the first guy that had to stand in the cold didn't like it so much so we brought the line back inside." 
It took only 20 minutes to hand out more than 900 tickets to the three shows, leaving many students out in the cold as far as tickets went. The lucky recipient of the last ticket was sophomore Joan Cahill. Cahill saw the showlast year and said it was excellent. As far as being the last to get a ticket her only comment was, 
"Awesome." 
Abowd added, "We knew there was a limit to the number of tickets we could distribute. We even posted signs to make everyone aware of this." Many students, however, expressed the same feelings as junior Debbie Stephan. "I know my chances of getting a ticket arc slim, but I'm going to wait anyway." 
SMC 
continuedfrom page 1 

attended by approximately 220 peopk. Hudson's Department Store provided spring fashions and three mak models for the show. Juniors Betsy Burke, Jodie Spitalli, Carolyn George, and Beth Muller also served as modds. 
After the fashion show a talk was given on the history of Saint Mary's at Carroll Hall by Sister Mary Jane Honan. 
Planning of the weekend began last year with selection of Drabick and Clark as co-chairpersons. Corn· mittees, formed in September for the event, consisted of I 0-12 mem­bers. 
Mothers were housed either at the Americana or the Morris Inn. 
The Observer Monday,January 30, 1983-page 5 



Reagan confirms re-election plans 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Ronald Wilson Reagan, 39th president ofthe United States, said in a paid political ad­vertisement last night that he will stand for re-election. 
His long-expected campaign an­nouncement came as I,000 Republican officials gathered in a nearby hotel ballroom to cheer a candidate who is riding high in the polls and has already amassed a $4 million re-election warchest. 
Eight men are chasing the Democratic nomination to oppose Reagan. 
In a statement, first lady Nancy Reagan said: "it was a mutual deci­sion. I support him fully. I'm very proud of him, and all he's ac­complished in a very short space of time." 

Reagan, who took office vowing to stem the tide of ever-increasing government spending and to rebuild the nation's military, was coy to the last, telling GOP officials early in the evening: "We'll trust that everything comes together before the night is over." 
The former actor and governor, who will be 73 Feb. 6, announced his fourth bid for the presidency in a TV broadcast from the Oval Office. 
The Reagan-Bush campaign com­mittee paid about S400,000 to air Reagan's 10:55 p.m. EST announce­ment, but the money couldn't buy suspense. 

Though Reagan refused for months to declare his intentions, ar­guing that early disclosure would prompt speculation that his deci­sions were colored by politics, he dropped many hints that he would run. 
He made countless jokes about his age, defusing what has been a peren­nial non-issue. He lit into his Democratic opponents, focusing on frontrunner Walter Mondale. 
He said George Bush again would 
be his running mate. 


esc class will visit washington 
ByPATSAIN 
Senior StaffReporter 
The way to solve a problem is to go straight to the top, and students going on the Social Concerns Semi­nar in Washington, D.C., will be doing just that. 
During spring break, from March 17-24, nearly 20 students will travel to the nation's capital to investigate 
the  disarmament  issue,  urban  
poverty,  and  the  problems  in  
Central America.  

Orientation for the group will be given by Congressman Romano L. Mazzoli, D-Ky., who will talk about the professional and personal aspects of a politician's life at the Capitol. A Notre Dame alumnus. Mazzoli was instrumental in setting up the first Washington Seminar. 
The students will tour the Pen­tagon and will be briefed by a public relations officer about the govern· ment's position on arms and Central America when they look into the dis­armament issue. They will also at­tend a seminar on Central America, and go to a training session for 2,000 people who will be working in Latin American countries. 

The housing problem in Washing­ton, D.C., will also be a subject ofthe seminar. "There is tremendous c:on­trast between the federal district and the city itself," said Marcia LeMay, coordinator ofthe seminar. 
Last year, the weeklong seminar included a personal session with Congressman Henry Hyde, R-Ill., on the Central American arms issue, and a talk with Peter Henriot, Direc­tor of the Center of Concern in Washington D.C. "Henriot is a very intelligent man who knows his material," said LeMay. "He has an inspiring way of talking directly to each person." 

r,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,..,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,........,.,.,.,.,.,....................,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.......,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.......,.,...,.,.,.,.,...,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,........,.,..,r,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,...,.,.,...,.,.,....................,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,....................JCI'"'J"..r..r..r..r..r..r..r.r..r..r..r..r.....-..r.r..r.r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r.....-.....-..r.....-..r..r.....-..r..r..r..r..., 
I§ JYD/SMC STliDEJYTS I§ I spend Spring BrealtON I I§ THE World's Most I~ I Famous Beach I 



i§ ~ DAYTONA BEACH I§ ~ 
I I 
§s Package Includes: § ~ 
I *Round Trip Motor Coach Only $195 ~ § *8 days, 7 nights, II beachfront hotel ~ 
~


Ii *Free concerts by top I 
§ 
§ss 


name bands 
*Fr,ee parties 

§ ~ *Df·scounts 
An informational meeting for the Seminar will be held tomorrow at 7 

p.m. in the coffee house at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns. The deadline for applying is 5 p.m. on February 6. Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The program is geared toward sophomores, juniors and seniors of any major. "You do not have to be a political science major to go on the seminar," said LeMay. Students should have some interest in social issues, however. 
The seminar is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and Stu­dent Government, and requires three preparation sessions with faculty members before it begins. 
The seminar is worth one credit in theology, and requires a five-page. paper and an evaluation at the end of the course. 

The Statue ofLiber~y has its torch held high as workmen from the United Builders Company begin erecting scaffolding around its base. The Statue is undergoing a restoration project which is scheduled to be completed on the landmark's JOOth birthday. 
§

Leave ND Friday, March 16 
Leave Dayton for ND-Saturday, Mar. 24 
§
§ 

~ Call Paul at 283-4358 ~ 
~ § 
~ for more info ~ I
l...r.r...oo-..r.r..r..r..r..r..r..r.r.r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r...oo-..r..r..r..r..r..r.r..r..r...oo-..r..r..r~...oo:r..rJ~:r~..r..r..r..r..r..r..r...c--~..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r.r..r..rJ~:r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r 







Showcase 
Monday,January 30, 1983-page 7 


Rating then 
by Pat Beaudi1 
~................................................... f~r~s 

Pat's picks Top 10 albums 
1. 
Michael jackson, Thriller­Tht·rl· art· not many in~tann:s of an album that ha~ app<:alnl so SUl'l"<:SS· fully to hlacksmu/ whitt·s, and that's why this album might h<: the biggest sc.:ller of tht· dccadl·. lksidcs that. this lp is a solid dffiJrt with good songs cverwht·rt· likt· "lkat II," "Billit-.ll'an," and "WannaBe Start in' Sonwthing." 

2. 
Tht· PolilT,Svncbmnicity ­An album which b a.' sound a.' 'fbril· ler, The l'olicc:'s.\)•ruhmnici~J' at·· complhht·s what many albums can't; a ~witch to a l'l>r)' st-rious approach without sounding fake or boring. Stin~ appan·ntl)' h;tsn't lost a hit of his charhma thi~ time out, and th<: woup h;tsn't lost thl'ir hit making ability as st·en by "Every Breath You Take." ami "King of Pain." 

3. 
The Rolling Stones, l!ndercowr -Wilh l lml£>rcm•er. the Stones can still make a valid claim as being the world's gn·atest rot·k hand. "Too Tough" and "l lntlercovn of tht· Night" have as mud1 pown as their t·arly material. and other songs like "\X'anna Iloki You" and "She Was Ilot" stn·ngthcn this lp. Even though Kdth Richard's lll'roin decatks arc over and most of the Stont·s have 'l'lllnlthdr pan· down,Jaggn's rt·stkssncss should spark a few more good lp's in the fu!llre. 

4. 
Prine<:,/')')') -Prince may not bt· tht· typt· ofguy that girls should take home to their family, hut his pervcrtt·d antics proved genius with tht· rdca.'l· of1999. It's got enough cr<:ative funk to drive" I<J<J9," "Little Red Corvt·tt<:," and "Delirious" to the Top Tt·n. The rest of the album has just as much potential. 

5. 
David Bowit:, Let's Dance ­"Modern Love," "China Girl," and the title t'Ut make this album one of thl· year's h<:st. Bowie ha.' reao;S<:rtc:d 


himselfas a frontrunner ofthe music scene and once: again, he's ktting th<: music speak for itsdf, which it docs nicely. 
6. 
U2. \f'ar-One: ofth<; few new hands that know what tht:y're doing, U2 has finally started reaching the suctTSS they dc:S<:rve with this al· hum. "Sunday Bloody Sunday" is tru· Iy powerful. while "New Year's Day" and "Two liearts Beat As< >ne" drive: furiously. This hand should be: watch<:d in the nc:ar future. With a couplt: mort: albums likl' this, ll2 will find thdr place right besidt: Th<: Who in tht: annals of rock history. 

7. 
Tht: Kinks.S/ate ofConfusion -Mayhc: "Come Dancing" isn't a classic likt: Tht: Kinks last Top Ten hit, "Lola". hut thdrState ofConfu· simi album contains plenty ofgreat rock tunes. "Young Conservatives" is as scathing and act·urate a portrait of today's youth as possible. It proves Ray Davies still has his knack as a social critic, first widely sec:n in 


"Wdl Rt:spected Man." He: also still ha' his ability for writing catchy songs like "Don't forget to Dance," "Definite Maybe," and the titlt' cut, which keeps the Kinks revival going full spet:d. 
8. 

Various Artists, Ftashdance -Tht· movie is about as l'Xciting a~ watching your grandmoth<:r knit sock:., hut tht: soundtrack is a dif. ferent story. Songs like lrt·ne Cara's "What a Feding" and Michad Scm· hdlo's "Maniac" dominated the charts, hut they are only the tip of the iceberg ofthis good relt'ao;e. 
9. 
Bob Seger, lbe Distance -If you can ignore "Shame on thl' Moon," this is a very solid album that exhibits more emotional breadth than he's shown in years. The: c:nergy in "Roll Me Away," "Making Thun· dcrhirds, and "Evc:n Now" would make any album proud. 

10. 
Def Lcppard, Pyromania ­Def Leppard has always bec:n a cut above the rc:st of the schlock-rock, heavy metal hands. Pyromania 



provc:s they're even bettc:r than that. 
"Photograph" is the best song 

thc:y've ever recorded, and comparc:d to most ofthe synthesizer garbage: relt'ased today, it deserves recommendation. 

Top 10 singles 

1. 
Michacljackson, "Billie jean"­This is the song that more or kss kicked offthe phenominal succes..~ of Thiller. It's moment didn't come on the radio; howevc:r, it came on the Motown anniversary show when Jackson sang it to a frenzied audience, and showed how much power a good song has. 

2. 
The Police:, "King ofPain" -Thil. song dearly showed the hand's break from any lightheartedness of the past. Spc:cial because ofthe: message it<;elf, "King ofPain" is also memorable bc:cause it emphasizes the Policc:"s dedication and skill in making good, danceable music. 

3. 
The: Pretendc:rs, "Back on the Chain Gang" -When the hand's future looked its dimmc:st, The Prc:tenders removed all doubt of hrc:akup when thc:y released this smash. Chrissie Hynde's charisma is present on every line: and kec:ps her at the top ofall female vocalists. The lyrics kc:ep this song a favorite: of 



There can be no confusion, the Kinks are back in full force as they made Pat's top album chart. 
1983. 

4. 
Prince, "little: Rc:d Corvette" ­A truly masterful pop song, "little Rc:d Corvette" illustratc:s Prince's versatility · as versatile as his own sexuality. 


5. 
David Bowie, "Lc:t's Dance" ­The pumping bao;s line and Bowie's charismatic voice: make this song a winner in 1983. He's smoothly made the transition from an overindulgent Ziggy Stardust to an all-around nice guy, and the music has come around just as well. 

6. 
Michael jackson, "Beat It" ­The kind ofsong that comes onct: in a lifetime, if at all, for most anists. "Beat It" wa<; the: most heard (and overplayc:d) song last summer. It has something for c:vc:ryone and cannot he dismissed as just a silly pop song. 

7. 
Men at Work, "It's a Mistake"­Mc:n at Work is not just your average group from Australia. Although most of thc:ir matc:rial is empty lyrically, "It's a Mistake" shows thc:y're some· 


thing more. It's the first time thc:y've 
combined Colin Hay's great vocals, 
good music, and good lyrics. It was a 
combination that made this song a 
smash hit. 

8. 
Eddy Grant, "Electric Avenue" -Even though Grant could definitely pass for a rao;ta-man, you won't find him sponing foot long ganja spliffs onstage. Instead, he con­centrates on making good music and "Electric Avenue" supJX>ns that idea. 

9. 
Bob Seger, "Even Now" -Bob Segc:r has already made a handful of classics ranging from "Ramhlin' Gamblin' Man" to "Night Movc:s," and "Evc:n Now" might just fit along with those: others. It's about the best stuff hc:'s done si.nceAgainst the Wind. 

10. 
Modern English, "Melt With You"-One ofthe best "nc:w music" songs c:ver made. When people talk about the nc:w music era it would be necessary to bring up this one because it shows much more emotion and talent than song.-; by such trash groups as Duran Duran, for example. 



Top five disappointments 
1. 
Stayin' Alive soundtrack -The: only thing this al· hum did wa'S discredit an alrc:ady lousy movie, which is a ddinite shame. The originaiSaturdtry Night Fever, was one ofthe all time biggest selling albums and clearly a trendsetter, even though the Bee Gees aren't a college favorite. Hope­fully, Frank Stallone will find another career, or just climb under a rock. 

2. 
The Hollie's reunion -A truly botched attempt, this reunion is a true failure from the band that recorded "Long Cool Woman in a Black Dress." Their newest single, "Stop in the Name ofLove" is a soupy remake that creates the feeling that thc:ir breakup wasn't such a bad idc:a 

3. 
Asia'sAipha-Some oftheSt· songs sound like Barry Manilow with a synthesizer, and that's a com­pliment. Even "Don't Cry" can't come dose to anything on their dc:hut, and although that song went Top Ten, the: first supc:rgroup ofthe eighties is running out oflut·k. 

4. 
Michacljackson'sThriller Mini­Movie -It wao; sint·erdy a great idc:a, hut to sit through it more that once takes twenty No-Doze. The creatures from the: dead couldn't frightc:n my puppy. About the only thing this drudging video has going for it is the magic ofjackson, but then again, his magic stans to wear 


thin after such constant airplay. 
5. Simon and Garfunkel's "Rc:union" -It's rc:ally a shame that this reunion never came: about in al­bum form. According to Simon, Gar­
funkel's vocals didn't quite sound 
right on their album Think Too 
Much, so he dropped them and switched the title toHearts and Bones. A truly friendly move, his ac· tion di'klpJX>inted their fans, but who knows, it might he better than blundering a reunion like thl· llollies' did. 


Vic's picks 
____________,_ 
ToplOalbums 


Just as Michael Jackson walked a 
A wards, so he does with Pat's top were listed also. 
1. 
Tears For Fears, The Hurting ­The year's most stunning debut, thi~ LP fused elements ofEurodisco and pop with painfully emotional lyrics. Many will as.••ociate The Hurting's clean uncomplicated arrangc:ments with otherbands but this is not an aJ. bum ofborrowed themes and melodies. This hand will be a leadc:r ofthe nc:w sound in the 80s. 

2. 
U2, War-Yet another ex­ample that proves excellent lyrics do not have to be compromisc:d at the: expense offine music. The hand has been autobiographical since: its beginning, with the war in the hand's native: lrdand a popular theme. You can't hdp being affected by thisone. lois, their third, is by far their best. 

3. 
Big Country, The Cmssing ­The album that marks the return of the guitar. In a year that wa'i dominated by the synthesizer, Big Country rc:vived the guitar sound and ust"d it as an integral pan ofthe total sound. "In A Big Country" wa~ one ofthe yc:ar's catchic:st JX>P tunes, with a bag-pipe like riff throughout the: song. The band's lead singer said it best: "Big Country is music to move mountains by." 

4. 
Tom Petty and the Heanbreakers, LongAfterDark ­Thisone was a return to the sound of 



Monday,January 30, 1983-page 6 

the band's earlier days. Except for some scattering ofsynthesizer throughout (most notably on "You Got Lucky"), the LP showed the 
band at its rock-n-roll best. 
5. Michael Jackson, Thriller­What else can be said about this LP that hasn't already been said.? Powered by six Top Ten tracks (and three more songs which could probably do the same), Thriller cro$sed all cultural boundaries like no album since Stevie Wonder's Songs in the Key ofLife. Twenty mil­lion albums later and it's still showing no sign ofletting up. 

I y with a dozen or so American Music nking. Two ofThriller's singles 
6. 
Billy Joel, An Innocent Man ­After a briefsojourn in seriousness on last year's The Nylon Curtain, Joel returned with an LP dedicated to the music ofthe 60s with which 

he grew up. Songs like "The Longest Time," "Christie Lee" and "Tell Her About It" sound like updated ver­sions by Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons. It's a fun romp through the 60s. 

7. 
Culture Club, Colour ByNum­ber -The follow up to last year's Kissing to be Clever, this LP firmly establishes the band as the latest sweethearts ofpop. The band's catchy mix ofreggae and Motown and lead singer Boy George's mesmerizing voice make this LP ir­resistible. 

8. 
The Police, Synchronicity ­"Every Breath You Take", the band's tribute to an Orwellian vision of society in 1984 was a huge hit for the band but far from the LP's best track Fortunately, audiences did not shy away from the LJ>'s serious themes, which wa<> good since this was the hand's tightest performance to date. 

9. 
The Moody Blues, The Present -For some unknown reason, this LP died a quick death. A shame, considering the fact that their last LP was a No. 1 smash. This LP, with its 


fmc combination ofthe classic 
Moodies sound and a newer, more 
pop oriented sound, deserved more 
respect. 
10. Missing Persons, Spring Ses­sion M -Former Playboy bunny and the band's lead singer Dale Bozio's quirky voice may annoy some but its just perfect for the band's undisciplined new wave, bouncy sound. This one'sfor the fun ofit. 
Top 10 singles 
1. 
Tears for Fears, "Pale Shelter" -The best track on the year's best LP. Hauntinglyrics and a fine perfor­mance on acoustic guitar framed the lyrics to this paranoic love song. MTV played this for a while but this was the extent ofthis song's popularity here in the states. 

2. 
U2, "Sunday Bloody Sunday" ­One ofthe band's hardest rockers on theirWar LP, thissong is a reflection on the turmoil in the band's native country. 

3. 
Big Country, "In a Big Country" -Ifyou think that's a chorus of bagpipes you're hearing throughout this song, listen again. The first single from one ofthe year's surprise debuts spotlights the guitar in one of the most effective ways in a long time. Agood party tune, too. 

4. 
The Pretenders, "Back on the Chain Gang" -The band could have fallen apart after the death of their guitarist but Chrissie Hynde and The Pretenders surprised everyone with this moving tribute to their departed band member. 

5. 
Culture Club, "Karma Chameleon" -Transvestism aside, Boy George has the smoothest, bluesiest vocals around. This song even has a funky, danceable bassline to boot. 

6. 
MichaelJackson, "Beat It" -I doubt producer QuincyJones knew how significant Eddie Van Halen's guitar solo on this song would be, but it helped the song become one ofthe first by a black artist to crack FM airplay. One ofthe year's most significant singles. 


1. Men at Work, "Down Under" ­The calypso beat ofthis songwas too ·irresistible to pass up. And to think that the record company almost passed up this group because they thought audiences weren't ready. 
8. 
Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, "Change ofHeart" ­Tom Petty doesn't have the strong­est vocals in rock but so what? One ofthe most appealing things about TP and the band is their unpreten­tiousness. This one is pure rock-n­roll, the way only they can play it. 

9. 
Carty Simon, ,',~~llo Big Man" -I've always liked Carty Simon's voice; hearing this only helped con-



firm my beliefthat she was and still is the results show in one ofthe stick­one ofthe best around. This one's a iest efforts in recent memory. There tribute to her father. A video that is hope for the future, however: Wet­acompanies the song is like a trip ton is no longer with the band and through her family album. This song hits the heart. 
10. Journey, "Separate Ways" -I never thought I'd see the day that I'd like a journey song but there's a first for everything. The band did't wimp out with a bevyofmushy love songs; they showed critics that, at least for awhile, corporate rock bands can jam. 

Top three disappointments 
l.Asia'sAlpba-A classic case of 
the sophomore jinx. Vocalist John 
Wetton tookthe group too far in the 
pop direction this time around and 

2. 
Stevie Nicks -What happened on The Wild Heart is a real mystery. After the semi-autobiographicalBel­ladonna, Nicks took off in a com­pletely different direction. Arrangements were much more complicated this time out -from the extensive use ofsynthesizes on the LP to the pretentious string sec­tion on "Beauty and the Beast." In addition, her lyrics were at their most abstruse ever. Granted, Nicks has always lived in a fairy-world and at times has made sense to no one but her self, but she may have been 

too abscure this time around. 


3. 
Female lead singers -They may try to sound like Pat Benatar but ladies like Darby Mills and the lead singers ofToronto and Girlschool can't hold a note to save their life. There's a difference between screaming and singing -these women need a lesson. 



r 
Sports Briefs 
Captain Phil Baty led the Notre Dame wrestling team to a very respectable third place in the National Catholic Collegiate Tournament this past weekend. Wrestling in the 177-pound class, Baty finished first. Also taking top honors was sophomore John Krug( 167 ). Louis Carnesale( 158), Carl Hildinger( 118). and Mark Fisher( l.H) all placed second for the Irish. New coach Tihamer Toth-Fejel was unable to make the trip due to illness. -The Ob­serller 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Club will 
hold a meeting this Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the third floor gymnastics room at the Rockne Memorial. T-shirts will be passed out and future plans will be discussed. New members are welcome. For more in­formation, call Pat Toole at 277-7571 or Matt Kelleher at x 1206. ­
The Observer 

ATrack competitionis being sponsored by the NVA offi1..·e. Events include 60-yard low hurdles, a mile run, a four-lap relay, 60-yard dash, 440-yard and 880-yard runs, an eight-lap relay, high jump, and broad jump. Points will be awarded for first and second place halls a.~ ranked by points compiled by individuals. To sign up, call 239-6100 or stop by the NVA office in the ACC.-The Observt!T' 
A Racquetball Clinic for beginners is being offered for students, faculty, and staff today at 7 p.m. at ACC Court 2. Rac­quets will be provided and there is no charge. Call 239-6100 for more info. -The Obsen'er 
An agility and quickness programwill be 
starting today. The workout will include quickness and agility drills along with stretching exercises. Sessions will be held on Mondays and Thursdays from 4 to 6 p.m. If you plan on participating, plea..~e attend the first meeting on Monday in the ACC Pit. -The Obsen,er 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club wm hold an 
organizational meeting for the spring semester today at 8:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. New players are encouraged to attend. No experience is necessary. Contact Geoff Branigan ( 3665) for more information. The guest speaker will be Matt Zap( -The Ob­sen'er 
Stretchercise classes will be given by the NVA on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:30 to 6: I 5 in the Auxiliary Gym of the ACC. The classes, which began yesterday, emphasize stretching and light exercise. The classes are designed for faculty and staffwho have not been active recently. If you have any questions, call 239­6690. -The Observer 
I
Monday, January 30, 1983-page 8 
The Off-Campus hockey team plays tonight 
at I0:30 in the ACC. -The Observer 

A downhill ski package for Royal Val­
ley is being offered by the NVA. The package, which includes transportation, lift tickets, ski rental, and lessons, covers the next three Tuesday nights. You can buy the package for one, two, or all three of the dates. For more information, call the NVA office at 239­6690. -The Observer 
Sugar Ray Leonard has made it official, announcing Thursday that he will fight Kevin Howard on Feb. 25 a:> the first step in what he hopes will be the road to regaining his welterweight crown by this fall. Leonard said that he's looking forward to meeting Marvin Hagler in the ring for the middleweight championship "two or three years down the road. I am not going to rush myself." -AP 
The national Champion Miami Hurricanes and third-ranked Auburn will open the 1984 college football season when they meet in the second Kickoff Classic Aug. 27 at Giants Stadium. Miami Coach Howard Schnellenberger and Auburn Coach Pat Dye will be at Giants Stadium Wednesday for the formal an· nouncement of the game, sources at Auburn University said Friday. 
-AP 

Les Steckelwas formally announced yesterday as the new coach of the Minnesota Vikings. Steckel, boyish-looking at 37, replaces Bud Grant, who said Friday he wa..~ resigning to "to pursue some other interests in life." On the Vikings' staff a.~ a receivers coach since 1979, he becomes only the third head coach in the club's his­tory. Norm Van Brocklin was the first, from 1961-1966, and Grant held the job I 7 years. -AP 
Wayne Gretzky, bothered by a bruised left shoulder, considered sitting out Saturday night's game against the Los Angeles Kings. But the magnificent Edmonton Oilers' center also was nursing a National Hockey League record 51-game consecutive point· scoring streak, and so he decided to play. The Kings rose to the occasion, ending the amazing streak, which dated to the opening game of the season, and won the game 4-2. -AP 
Second-seededjohn McEnroe defeated top­
seeded Ivan Lend! 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 yesterday to win the S375,000 
U.S. Pro Indoor title for the third consecutive year. McEnroe clinched the S54,000 purse winning a fourth-set tiebreaker 7-3 as he beat Lend! in the finals for the second straight year. -AP 
Billy Sims testifies about pact 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Running back Billy Sims testified Friday he signed a contract with the Houston Gamblers of the United States Foot­ball League because he believed that negotiations with his present team, the Detroit Lions, had broken off. 
Sims-also said he would not have allowed his former agent, Jerry Ar­govitz, to negotiate contracts for him had he known that Argovitz had gotten a $3,800 finders fee for investing Sims' money. Argovitz is now co-owner and president of the Gamblers. 
The running back filed suit against Argovitz in federal court, claiming the Gamblers contract should be voided because Argovitz mis­represented him. 
Sims said he signed the Gamblers contract last July because he was not aware until mid-November that the National Football League Lions had made an offer. 
Belles 
continuedfrompage 12 
score 11 ofthe Belles' first 13 points, and thereby ignite a rally that fell all too short. The Marauders used many late trips to the free-throw line to widen the margin ofvictory, and ad­vanced to the championship with the win. 
"We just didn't have our heads in the game," said Rouse of the loss. "If we're not in complete control ofour game like that, we're not going to win." 
Saint Mary's advances its overall season record to 4-9 with the win and the loss. The Belles will travel to Fort Wayne tonight to play an early evening contest against St. Francis College, returning to face a powerful team from Goshen College Wednes­day night in Angela Athletic Facility. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday though Friday. Deadline for next­day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person
Classifieds or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES 

Save 2&. otl u• on your textbooks by order at Pandora's 
Books 

Two day delivery serv1ce! 937 South Bend Avenue at Corby Blvd. Phone 233·2342. 
Expe"enced Typ1st 
Mrs. Bedford 
Hours 
8AMio5PM 
Mon thru Frl 
288-2107 

TRAVEL FIELD OPPORTUNITY· EARN MONEY AND GAIN VALUABLE MARKETING EXPERIENCE BE A REP· RESENTATIVE FOR SPRING BREAK TRIP TO FLORIDA. CALL CAMPUS MARKETING AT (312) 858-4887 COL­LECT. 
ILOST/FOUND I 
ONE HUNDRED DOLLAR REWARD of· 
fared by United Limo: A tan. brown suitcase with a cord around 11 was lost on Jan. 15th at Notre Dame. Please call Steve at United l.Jmo---674·6993. 
FOUND-SHARP CALCULATOR IN AM 202 BUSINESS ADMIN. ON 1/23 
LOST: DARK BLUE NORTH FACE COAT ON JAN 18 AT SENIOR BAR PLEASE CALL 1695. 
lOST: Jan. 25 at Senior Bar -navy pea coat. Plea• call 277-04e8 
LOST: ONE BLACK WAllET AT CORBY'S ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 272-&291. REWARD. 
LOST: DARK BLUE JACKET THURSDAY (1/26) AT RAFFERTY'S. CARDIN ZIPPER JACKET. I'VE GOT YOURS WrtH BUTTONS. CALL 2... toTO. 
LOST: One gray and white thin-st"ped long sleeve shirt with a small hole on the top left shoulder. nwas accidentally put m someone·s laundry by St. Michael's Laundry Service before Christmas. If you have 11. please return to Jim at X1101. 
FOUND: STUDENT BASKETBALL TICKET IN THE ACC AFTER B-BALL GAME. IF YOURS CALL GLEN X 3120 
FOUND: ONE PEARL NECKLACE AND 2 OTHER NECKLACES IN A JEWELRY BOX OUTSIDE OF FARLEY. CALl PAT 2n-7571. 
loat your -h?Well, llound ll Room 302 of Cuahlng. Found laat Friday. Call to claim. 1471. 
.....................-......................................... 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOME FOR RENT 2n­3604 
Student rental. 5-6 bedroom house. fireplace. dishwasher. & washer & dryer. Call 232-405 7 or 272· 7767. 
CAMPUS VIEW--MALE ROOMMATE wanted. 234-0537 
SPACIOUS 2·3 BEDROOM HOME NEAR GOLF COURSE THIS SEMES· TEA. 2 PERSONS OR FAMILY. NO PARTIES. $250 & DEPOSIT OF $250. 289-1687 
L---W__A__N_T_E_D___......J\ 
need SEVEN (7) DEPAUL !lXI call Sheila 3484 
WANTED: 2 BILLY JOEL TICKETS. CALL 272-5877 AFTER 6:00PM 
Need ride to Bloomington. IN (IU) Feb. 3-5 or any weel<end call John 234· 7033 
NEED RIDE TO TOLEDO THIS WEEKEND. CALL 27371 
NEED 3 MARQUETIE TIX. FAMILY COMING FROM N.J. MUST HAVE THREE GA'S CALL GLEN x3120 
looking for 2 dependable females to 
share living expenses in furnished house. 
1 0 minutes from campus. $150 per month includes utiltties: Non-smokers please. Call 239-5930 or 291·9644. 
Summer Wort<: Interviewing and selecting 10 students from N.D. Relocate out West. Ave. earnings $31G/Wk Send name. address. phone , and carl:tr intenbons to: Summer Wort<, P.O. Box 803, Notre Dame. IN. 46558 
NEED 4 MARQUETIE TIX STEVE 1760 
HELP!! Need 2 tlks to MU/ND game. Call Marty at x3471 
I NEED MAROUETIE T!X. STUD OR GA. CALL BILL at 1059. 
I NEED 2DEPAUL GA'S. CALL DAVE AT 1801. 
HELP! DESPERATELY NEED MU TICK· ETSI CALL PAT AT3625 
Need DEPAUL GA's call John after 7 pm collect (312)998-8384 
I FOR SALE 
N~tre Dame house for sale. 4 bedrooms. 15 mins. from campus. Assumable mortgage. Good ~rwesiment tor parents. Call 283-6243 
74 FORD VAN FOR SALE Customized Interior. New Auto. Trans.. tires. banery. Reliable running cond. Asking S 1450. Cllll Bob at 283-8552 or Paul at 283-8458. 
FOR SALE HP-33E CALCULATOR CALL FRED AT 1760 
PERSONALS 
PHOBIA OF THE DAY Dendrophobia: lear of trees 
SENIORS: Volunteer Wort< with HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES. Community living and service in PHOENIX. COLORADO. CALIFORNIA. AND OREGON. Deadline for applications Feb.3. Call Mary Ann Roemer. 7949. REWRITE 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Happy Birthday Lynn E-n and hey, let's shoot those lights out 
tonight. 
I am 29 years old. and I've got three years left to go on a burglary conviction (at the Indiana State Penitentiary). I'm looking for a friend. Please write me at: A. A. "Trump· Troxaii. P.O. Box 41. Michigan City. Indiana. 46360. I would be really thankful. 
IRISH BASKETBALL 7:30 TONITEf 
SENIORS deposit for SKI TRIP due Mon by ?.Bring IT TO LaFort. THURS AND MON 6·8. FRI 3·5 
SENIORS ALL MONEY FOR SKI TRIP DUE TUE. 31 5-7 LaFort! 
SENIOR SKI FITIINGS TUE 31. 5-7 LaFort. BE THERE! 
EXPERT TYPING 277·8534 AFTER 5:30 
Amy Stephan. you are a goddess! 
HEY (OC)GIRL,WHERE ARE MY B.JOEL TIX·BILL x3267 
College educated couple Interested In adopting an infant. If you know of anyone who is considering placing a child for adoption. please call (217) 398-4169 after 6p.m. 
Where is the Blessed Virgin Mary Helen D 
?J.C. 

······················· ........................ I am 18 years old. and I've got 3 1/2 years left on a conviction by the Housing Com· n1ission at Fisher Hall. I'm looking for a friend. Please write me at 323 Fisher or call 301 0 · ask for Mike or Ken. I really would be thankfuL. 
Tonight. the women's basketball team will celebrate Lynn Ebben's birthday by get· ling revenge against DePaul University. The Blue Demons were fortunate enough to win last time. but they'll never win in the ACC. So come on out at 7:30 and watch Mary Drs team win one lor the Ebberl 
Seductress, Good luck wffh an honest jOb. We still Hke you. Deep Throat & The Gang 
Gel ten percent oil anything you order Ill BIG BEAR on McKinley Avenue by the Town and Country Mall. Ju• ahow your atudent ID and tell them that "Sam" Mnl you. H Party Dave goea there, you know II muat be aweaome. S..youtherell 
TINA.THANKS FOR THE WALK THURS. NIGHT I WONT FORGET IT.MAYBE I COULD TAKE YOU AND YOUR BOYFR.OUT TO .... BARNABYS!?ANGIE?HMMM. 
GROUND ZERO MEETING. TUES. 7:00. Center for Social Concerns. New mem· bers welcomed and encouraged. Will be mak1ng plans for Teach-in. Feb. 11.12. 
THREE MINUTES TO MIDNIGHT 
HEY LAURA HAVE A GREAT BIRTHDAY WENCH · LOOKING FOR· WARD TO NEXT YEAR. LOTS OF LOVE. LISA LETS HAVE A WILD NIGHT!! 
Summer Prognlma lor SMC·ND Stu­denta London Program May 23-June 22 (T...,.I In Ireland, Scotland, France); College-level courMa Rome Program June 17-.July 18 (Tr11vel In France, Ger., Switz); College-level courMa ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING Feb 27 Rm 348 Mad-lor lnlo. call Prol Black 284-4480 (day) or 272-3726 (evenlnga). 
Shannon did you meet the tan man? 
To the guy from the towers who bought my Billy Joel ticket(around S p1ck 460): I lost your name and number. Please call Chuck at 1972. 
ATIENTION: ALL KEENAN. ST. EDS/H.C.. O.C.. and CAVANAUGH hockey players. The o:·c. vs Cavanaugh game on 1/30 Will now be played at 10:30 PM. and the Keenan vs St. Eds/H.C. game w111 be played at 11 :45 PM. If you have any questions. talk to your captains 
Mary's Di-Hards 
Salute 
Ruth Kal­
as its 
MVP lor the Evanavllle game 
Congratulations Ruth, and good luck tonight 

The Observer Monday, January 30, 1983-page 9 

r·----------------------------, 

® 
:a 
;!51 
Throbbing head? Quaking body? Has Monday dealt another crushing blow? Revive yourself with a well­rounded meal from Dominds Pizza. We'll help smooth the wrinkles out of your day. 
Dominds Pizza makes this guarantee: If your pizza does not arrive within 30 minutes, ifs free... no coupon necessary! 
:. Fast ... Free 
~Delivery™ 
Call us. 
277·2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
Hours: 4:30pm-1 am Sun-Thurs. 4:30pm-2c.m Fri. & Sat. 
Ask about our party discounts. 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
Menu 
All Pizzas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and 100% Real Cheese 
Our Superb Cheese Pizza 12" cheese $4.79 
16" cheese $6.89 
Domino's Deluxe 5 items for the price of 4 Pepperon~ Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers and Sausage 12" Deluxe $ 8.35 16" Deluxe $12.05 
Additional Items Pepperon~ Mushrooms, Olives, Green Peppers, Onions, Ground Beef, Sausage, Extra Cheese, Ham, Extra Thick Crust, Jalapenos, Anchovies 12" pizza $ .89 per item 16!' pizza $1.29 per item 
Coke® available 
Prices do not include 
applicable sales tax. 
Limited delivery area 
C 1984 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
Monday Special 

II. 
Only $7.25 for a 16" 1-item pizza with two Cokes®. Good Mondays Only. One coupon per pizza. 
Fast, Free Delivery~ 1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center Phone: 277-2151 
39033/2650 
srt' r l I 
uov I, 
L••·------------·:~-•••---------­
'" 
oJ<IA wu-.; •"•'-"'•• 
II.,,•At••~v~ 

Men 
continuedfrom page 12 
seconds later but could convert only 
one ofthe two shots. 
The Irish held the ball until Sluby saw the whole right side ofthe court open and made his break to the bas­ket. He got the layup, was fouled by Veal, and sank the free throw to complete the three point play. 
"We were just trying to milk the clock," said Sluby of Notre Dame's strategy in the final minute. "I really wanted to hold the ball a little longer so that ifl missed they wouldn't have a chance to score, but once I saw the whole side open, I had to go to the basket. 
"They probably thought we were going to slow it down and wait for the last shot with three seconds left." 
"They outsmarted us at the end," lamented a disgruntled Maryland coach Lefty Driesell afterward. 
"They cleared out a side and Sluby drove to the basket on a one-on-one and our other four guys just stood there and looked at him. 
"When you clear out a side like that you know he's going to the hoop. We've seen that in the films. The whole team should have gone after him." 
Barlow, who had 16 points in the game on perfect shooting (5-5 from the field and 6-6 from the line), and Tim Kempton each hit on both ends of a one-and-one situation as Maryland was forced to foul after Ad­kins missed a jumper. Adkins' un­contested layup at the buzzer was of little significance as the Irish took away the 52-47 upset. 
Notre Dame outsmarted Maryland more than just at the end. Throughout the game, the Terps saw a wide variety of defenses from the Irish, including their own triangle­and-two. The Irish played the triangle-and-two after not having worked on it all week until late in practice on Friday. 
The Irish win centered around 

~.............'"""""""""""""""""""""""'""""""""""""'""..................~ 
i ATTENTION JUNIORSt1 .
I ·----s;;t~~g-R;;;;:;~ik;;k;~---­
]un•oR PaRents' WeekenO PR€SJbent's 01nneR 
will beheld 
ITuesday, January 31 Wednesday, February 1 
7 -9 p.m. in the Nazz. 
NOTE: *Maximum of 6 t.D.'s per person 
~......................................:.~~~~!.~!.~.~.~?..!!.~~?.~.."""'"""""""'"~ 
I Ir·--------------------------------------.I I 1I The New York Times Ij 
1 Special Low Ratesfor 1 
I I
I Campus Delivery 1 
I 

Special low rates for campus delivery of The New York Times are now available at 30% off the single-copy price. This discount rate of 35¢ is good only for weekday and Saturday papers. Sunday papers are available on the subscription basis also but no discount is given. Papers will be delivered on 8:00a.m. on the day of publication to dorms and faculty offices. 
Your paper can be guaranteed mfor the first day of delivery on January 18 only if payment is received by January 17. Delivery for orders received after January 18 will begin within 3 days and refunds will be granted in case of overpayment. Please mail the bottom portion of this slip to: 
George Devenny 145 Stanford Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 
I I
~---------------------------------------· 
I I 
I I
1 Dear Mr. Devenny: 1I Count me in for The New York Times! I will Subscribe: I 
I Spring Term (ends May 6) I Monday-Friday ................. $24.85 I Monday-Saturday ............... $29.40 1 
Monday-Sunday ................ $61.90 1 Sunday only ................... $32.50 I 
Rates do not include receiving paper on holidays or during exam week. Enclosed is my check payable to George Devenny in the amount of$ Name Address 
Phone· _______________________________________ 
'--------------------------------------.. 
two things -defense and rebound­ing. Simply put, Notre Dame did both well. 
"Their (Maryland) strong suit is getting the second shots on the of­fensive end," said a jubilant Irish coach Digger Phelps, "and I thought we didn't allow too many shots off the offensive boards. 
"And when Maryland comes in and shoots 44 percent from the field (their average was 55 percent beforehand), I think it's because of our defense. I thought we mixed defenses well." 
Notre Dame did well because it never let any ofMaryland's five start­ers reach their point averages and because they were able to keep the Terps out oftheir up-tempo game. 
"It's obvious that we didn't want to run and shoot with them," says Phelps. 
The win should do much to help the team's confidence as they head 
into  the  meaty  part  of  their  
schedule.  
"We've  been  working all  year  

toward meeting a Top 20, Top 5 :earn," says Dolan. "We came out to play in the second half. We just tightened up on the boards and played good defense." 
"Now we know that we can play .gainst the good teams," says Sluby. We kept our poise, even after we 
lost the lead in the second half. Hopefully, this win will keep us on the up-beat." 
Besides knowing that they were playing Maryland, the very vocal "sixth man" also helped out the Irish mentally. 
"It helped us out a lot," said Bar­low. It (the support) hasgiven us the confidence to get things done the last couple of weeks." Notre Dame would like to hold its momen­tum as they face the school where Phelps got his collegiate coaching start, Fordham, Wednesday night at 8 p.m. in the ACC. 
Earlier this year, Phelps predicted that his then sluggish squad would break out they way they have of late when he said, "Our respect will come in March, and that's when it all counts." 
Although many critics would have laughed at such a comment then with the Irish struggling, it is begin­ning to look more and more like the Irish coach will have the last laugh. 
COUNSELINE A service to the NO community 239·7793 HOURS: 4-10pm Mon·Thurs. Counsellne 1., a free. confidential telephone service that offers professionally taped materials that cover a wtde variP!.'!.~.·--~-tuden1 concerns  
TAPE NO TITLE 1 Fnendsh•p Bu•ldtng 7 Oeatmg W1th Constructrve Cnhc•sm 8 Oealmg With Anger 9 Understal"'drng Jealousy ana How to Deal w•th 11 10 How to Say ··No·· 16 Becom•ng Open 10 OUlers 18 Datmg Sk•lls 30 Amuety and PoSSible Ways to Cope Wllhlt. 32 How to Deal w1th lonltness 33 How to Handle Fears 35 Bu1ldtng self-Esteem & Conhdenc~ 37 Rela1ung E~eerc•ses 38 Copmg w1th Stress 39 Female Sell Role-Changes and Stress 44 Learmng to Accept Yourself 61 What•s Therapy & How to Use It 83 How to Cope wilt·, a Broken Retat•onship 85 Understandtng Gue! 90 Helpmg a Fnend 160 Early s•gns ol an Alcohol Problem 161 Responsible Oec•s•ons About Ormking 402 Self·Asse•t.veness 431 Whal1s Depress1on 432 How to Deal With Oepress1on 433 Oepress1on as a Life Style 478 Becommg Independent from Parent.: 479 Dealing wtth Alcoholic Parents 491 SUICidal Crisis 492 Recognr1:1'lg Su1c1dal Potent1a1 in Others 493 Help~ng Soi'T'_I~.C?.'!~ !~ -~ Su1c1dal Cnsis  
Counsellne Is a completely anonymous service offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Center. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9·5 --CLIP AND SAVE-­ 


I 
~-~-----­
The Observer Monday,)anuary 30, 1983-page 10 
Col~~;:;~~:~o:::kend for top teams r•mi;;~-';ttil;ar;;-~ 
1 , II I A.'ISOCiatedPress Las Vegas beat Fullerton State 82-75 Efrem Winters scored 23 points I __ mlnUf8S frOm CBmpUS I 
in overtime; seventh-ranked Hous-and keyed a flurry of free throws ir 
I 
It was an upsetting weekend for ton beat Baylor 84-58; No. 8 Texas-the fourth overtime period, carrying 1 fifth-ranked Maryland and 14th­El Paso beat New Mexico 60-59; No. Illinois to its marathon victory over I ranked Louisville. Larry Farmer was 9. Illinois beat Michigan 75-66 in Michigan. The four overtimes were I Hair Cut Shampoo pretty upset, too, after his UCLA bas­four overtimes; No. I I Oklahoma two short of the Big Ten Con-I · ketball team got blown away at lost to No. 13 Memphis State 69-65; ference's record of six overtime J Blow Dry & Condition Pauley Pavilion. No. I 7 Wake Forest beat No. 19 Vir-periods set by Minnesota and 1 l. 54531 Terrecel.ane,
''!iblffll ..IHI(AciOU freM 
Reg. $15·00 

"We had a rough time," Farmer ginia 84-76, and No.. 20 Syracuse Purdue in I955. I ~ Martlti.. OIIS.II.23J said Saturday after his I5th-ranked Kerry Trotter's three-point play I Now $8· 50 with coupon
beat St. John's 78-74 in overtime. Bruins were crushed 84-68 by Michael Jordan scored 23 of his capped a Marquette comeback and I second-ranked DePaul. "But you 29 points in the second half for the the Warriors hit Ioof I2 free throws 11 T, W 8:30-5:30 offer only applies to male patrons can't have a situation where the guys Tar Heels, who now have won 17 in the final minutes to upset Louis-Th 8:30-8:30 
Fr 8:30-6:00

across the way play harder than you straight games. Sam Perkins added ville. Trotter's play gave Mtrquette I do. I only ask one thing -that the I 
s 8:30:2:30

19 points and a career-high I7 itsfirstleadofthesecondhalfat53­players play as hard as they can. rebounds for North Carolina. 50 with 3:50 left in the game, and the I Closed Man 277·1691 272·0312 Today they didn't do that." For LSU, it was the second straight Cardinals couldn't catch up. L••••••••••••••6.50 Savings •••••-••••••_....~ 
The loss was only the 18th in tht 
loss. The Tigers dropped an 80-78 "When the game is on the line, 19-year history of Pauley Pavilior 
decision to unranked Auburn Friday you have to stop the other team and for the Bruins. Farmer's teams have 
night. we didn't," Louisville Coach Dennysuffered five of those defeats. Arkansas also lost for the second Crum said. Meanwhile, Maryland was beaten 
straight game. Dwayne McClain Melvin Turpin scored 18 points by Notre Dame 52-47, and Louisville 
scored 20 points, including a tip-in and grabbed nine rebounds, leading lost 65-60 to Marquette in a pair of with three seconds left, to pace Vii-Kentucky past Georgia The upsets. 
lanova over LSU, which dropped a Wildcats scored 18 straight points in In yesterday's games, top-ranked 
ACCENT

65-62 game to unheralded Rice the second half, holding off GeorgiaNorth Carolina, which beat Georgia 
Friday night. for I0 and a half minutes with a 
Tech 73-61 Saturday, pulled away in 
Tyrone G>rbin scored 18 points tough zone defense. the second half to beat No. 10 and Kevin Holmes had 17 and keyed 
YOUR
Keith Lee broke out of a scoring

Louisiana State 90-79, while Vil­a second-half burst for DePaul slump with 22 points and grabbed
lanova upset No. 16 Arkansas 58-54. against UCLA. With the score 61-52, 18 rebounds, leading Memphis State
In other college basketball action DePaul went on a 15-4 blitz to take a over Oklahoma. Lee, a 6-foot-1 0 
INTERESTS

involving the nation's ranked teams, 20-point lead, its biggest advantage junior who had scored only four
No. 3 Kentucky beat No. 18 Georgia of the game. Kenny Fields had I6 points in each of his last two games,
(,4.40; No. 4 Georgetown beat Pitts­points for UCLA. FrankJames hit two free outplayed Oklahoma All-American
burgh 63-52; sixth-ranked Nevada-throws in overtime to help Nevada­Wayman Tisdale, who was limited to 
Las Vegas beat Fullerton State. I2 points.
Women 
continuedfrom page I1 r ......................................................,....................................... ...................~...........................-.........................-........,....................-.....-...........................-.....-.....-1 
I ~ 
team's performance declined, sud­Chautauqua presents denly found a groove. Taking ad­
BRUNO'S ~ 
vantage of her height -Evansville's tallest player wa~ 5-9 -she pulled THEBEATLES 
This Old House Pizzeria&Pub ~ 
down a team-high nine rebounds and scored 16 points, also leading in § (Across from Big "C" Lumber) ~ the team. Her six rebounds and 13 
"LETITBE" 
points in the second halfalone was a 
i i
For this week (1-30-84)
major factor as the Irish pulled away. The second-halfsurge came at ex­Tues., Jan. 31 § Mon. thru Thurs. § actly the time Notre Dame needed 
Chautauqua Ballroom § BRUNO will deliver a ~ 
it. The pesky Aces had used the 
outside shooting and speed of their 7,9,11 Admission $1 I MED. 16" Pizza §excellent guards, Shelly Brand and li § Barb Dykstra, to stay even, 35-35, with tht· much taller Irish in the first "Rock with thefinest at Chautauqua" ~ FREE to Campus ~ hal[ Brand poured in 16 and Dykstra ~ For only $8.95 with any 2 toppings ~ 
added seven as Evansville forced Notr~: Dame into a fast-paced tempo § plus lliter Pepsi § that tht· Irish are not accustomed to. 
§ FREE! §
"If you'n· Evansville, you need to gt·t the ball into Brand's hand at least 
§ §
Sophomore Literary Festival
50 pt·rcent of tht· time," explained 
Writing Contest
DiStanislao. "She does whatever she 
1 1
277-4519
Open to all Grad and Undergrad students
has to to get open. She runs offpicks, drives, anything. The person who Poetry andprose accepted ~ Open 4-10 ~ 
with no length requirements
was ~uarding her didn't g~:t any help 
Submit one copy with name andaddress to: 8 Fri. &Sat. untilll J 
so she got some easy baskets." b-.....-.....-......-.....-.....-.....-.....-.....-.....-..cr.....-......-.....-~.....-.....-.....-...-.:r~......-.....-.....-.....-.....-.....-~J.:)I"'J.>""...cr...ocr..rJ.::
309 O'Shag by Feb. 10, 1984
Nothing came easy for the Aces in 
Winners will be notified by Feb. 17 
the second half. After the teams 
For more information call: 
traded baskets for a few minutes. 
Patrick McManus 283-1754 DiStanislao inserted some new Sponsored by sophomore Literary Festival people into tht· game. The Irish lead quickly extendt·d from four points to 16 points a~ they outscored Evansville, 13-1, in a six-minute 
,.•.............••....•
span. 
"When we were on the bench, we wert· watching what we needed to do," said junior Ruth Kaiser, one of 
: RICHARD III :
the players who turned the game around. "Once the subs started going in, we were able to do what we saw." 
Besides running a very effective •• Starring: Laurence Olivier •: 
offense, Notre Dame also was able to control the Evansville offense, espe­: Monday-Engineering Aud. e cially Brand and Dykstra. The Aces could only makt· nine shots from the fidd in the half and never got closer than 14 points after the Irish ran off 
·····················­
their streak. 
It is hard to tell at this point if the team has ~:nded its sometimes incon­sistent play, but the performance is a 
LEVERAGED BUYOUTS: 
good sign. Players who were slump­
Opportunities. for young people
ing along with the team seem to be breakin~ our of the doldrums. Tonight's rematch with DePaul (see 
Lecture by Charles L. Barancik, CPA
related story) at the ACC should tell a great deal. ' 
Monday, Jan. 30 4 p.m. Hayes-Healy Audit. 
The players are opumrsuc, 
Sponsored by the M. B.A School 
though. "The cht·mistry seemed to bt· there tonight," said Kaiser after the game. 
'---------------------------~-~---­


~CJtcJlCl~--------------------------~-M_o_oo_a_y,_Jm_u_acy__3_0,_19_8_3 P_~_e_ll 
Bloom CoWity 
t1f' CPU\ 17a1JN. 1'£ 
J. I<NC1IJ )WR€ AU..
KNOW Bl.tUARIAN ·&PaEJJ lllrrUilll I MARXI5T 
11VIRIII'O. ~IU..A~. 



Mellish 
AJIIl AFTE~ nMr, Wf'tl ~TTJNP lllf. ITS, lri IEMTII'IAL. FOil Jill, 
011, Dof'IA~D••. ONIV THt BESr 
ANP HOW ,.,.. GDI~G TO TAIU: 
HA61S#Ni LECTIU DN 111/WifiNIC.
YIIU tJIT fO EAT· •• 
Guindon Richard Guirxlon The Far Side 


Low tech. 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  36 Small  69 LaScala  11 Shipping  
1 Followed  combo  site  container  
suit  38 G·men  70 Voyaging  12 Above  
5 Hog·llke  40 Monotonous  71 Actor  13 "Star-"  
animal  sound  Amaz  18 Soon  
10 Freight  41 Military  72 Conte  19 Coiffure  
boat  aircraft  73 Hairy Asian  23 Divan  
14 Ear feature  44 Usehook  beasts  24 Edit  
15 Sports  and line  26 Mercatoria!  
palace  45 Beloved  DOWN  collection  
16 Aa  46 Jal­ 1 Aswellas  27 Forward  
17 Naval craft  47 Spirited  2 Rain hard  part  
20 Actor  horse  3 Recedes  
Welles  48 Lapse  4 Fiend  28 Trace of  
21 VIsionaries  50-out  5 Sailor  color  
22 Schnozzle  (malcedo)  6 Onassls  30 Borders  
25 Numerical prefix 26 At a ship's  51 Flounder 54 Perceives 56 Goes before  7 Awalta decision 8 Unableto  32 -Ia Douce 33 Lordly 34 Move  
stem 29 Alaskan city 31 Halrcon· dltloner  61 Pome 65 Naval vessel 68 ytorshlped one  act 9 Marathon runner 10 Close with force  furtively 35 Eldrltch 37 Act the coquette  


Berke Breathed 

Campus
~I'M 
•12:15 
p.m.-Lecture, "Gender Roles in Sweden and the United States: A Comparative Perspective," Dr. Jan Trest, LaFortune little Theatre, Sponsored by Sociology Department 

•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc· tion to TSO, 115 CCMB, Free 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Leveraged Buyouts: Oppor· tunities for Young People," Charles L. Barancik, Hayes-Healey Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "Vector Bundles on Projective Spaces," Prof. Lawrence Ein, 226 CCMB 

•6 
p.m. -Student Senate Meeting, 118 Hayes­


Dave&Dave 
Healey 
•7 p.m. -General Meeting of Young Democrats, New Orleans Room, LaFortune 
IS THAT /.AI CIN" 
•7 p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "Last Year 
LlllfHfll FH, \lOll lllftCEO. 
at Marienbad," Annen berg Auditorium 
•7 
and 10 p.m.-Film, "Richard Ill," Engineering Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting of the Faculty Senate, 210·214 CCE 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Women vs DePaul, ACC 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Easy Rescues as Gratuitous Benefits," Dr. Joel Feinberg, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night II Film Series, 


"Paisan," Annenberg Auditorium
Gary Larson 
TV Tonight 
39 Closes 59 251 
tightly 60 WWII 42 Morerosy battle 43 Fr. cheese site 49 Bose, for 62 Wherea 
one tower 52 AUSpres· leans ldent 63 Onion's 53 Have suit· relative 
ability 64 Historic 55 Atomizer periods 56 Reimbursed 66 Roadster, 
57 Carnival e.g. attraction 67 No matter 58 God of love which 
Friday's Solution 


7 p.m. 
7:30p.m. 8 p.m. 
9 p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10 p.oi. 
16 22 28 34 16 22 34 16 
22 28 34 16 22 28 34 22 22 
MASH PM Magazine Joker's Wild Contemporary Health Issues Barney Miller Family Feud Straight Talk Tv Bloopers, Commercials 
Practical Jokes Scarecrow and Mrs. King That's Incredible Frontline Monday Night at the Movies Aftermash Monday Night Movie Great Performances 
Newhart Emerald Point, N.A.S. 
and 


©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 1/30/84 
FREE UNIVERSITY REGISTRATION 
~ T fJ~~//1 
Mon., Jan. 30 7-lOp.m. LaFortune Ballroom Tues., Jan. 31 in SMC dining halls 
get involved! en ~ ten your life! 
STOP! 
Represent Student Body: 
Jan. 30 7p.m.: Informational meeting for SBP/SBVP candidates Jan. 30 8p.m.: Informational meeting for senate candidates Feb. 1 6:30p.m.: MANDATORY meeting for SBP/SBVP candidates Feb. 1 7:15p.m.: MANDATORY meeting for senate candidates 
(All meetings Little Theatre, LaFortune) 

Maryland becomes a Notre Dame moment 
ByJEFF BLUMB Sluby and Barlow combined to Assistant Sports Editor score the first l 5 Notre Dame points as the Irish jumped out to leads of Call it a "Notre Dame moment." 10-4 and I2-5 before Maryland came Call it an upset. Call it whatever you back to tie at 13. Barlow hit a I2-foot will. But most of all, call it the game jumper from the left baseline to that finally gave the 1983-84 Notre move the Irish back out in front by Dame basketball team some two but the Terps rattled off six credibility. straight points ·to grab a 19-l 5 ad­
"It" is the 52-47 triumph over vantage. Maryland Saturday, and the respec­The Irish eventually took a 25-24 tability that goes hand in hand with lead with under 30 seconds left in beating a No. 5 ranked team like the the halfbut Herman Veal's layup offa Terrapins is unmeasurable. loose ball in the lane with two 
Howc:ver, it's not time for joy in seconds left gave the Terps their Mudville or talk of the NCAA halftime lead. Tournament -yet. Notre Dame, 13-Maryland, 13-3, jumped out to its 5, still must face the likes of South largest lead of the second half at 32­Carolina, DePaul, Pitt, BYll, Mar­29 asJeffAdkins drove the length of quette, and Dayton, and win at least the court for an uncontested layup a couple to have any hope of reach­less than four minutes in. That was ing the goal that has eluded them the last lead the Terps would know each ofthe last two years. Saturday's until there was just over three 
win is a step in the right direction, minutes left in the game, though. joseph Price came offthe bench to spark the Irish to though. Jim Dolan got a layup for the Irish, a 52-47 victory overfifth-ranked Maryland. Ken Bar­Dame starts raising hopes for an NCAA tournament 
Right now the Irish arc playing then followed his own miss of a low and Tim Kempton bad excellent games, as Notre bid. See jeffBlumb's story at left. their best basketball of the year, Sluby misfire, and the Irish were having won I l of their last 13, and back in the game at 33-32. Joseph 
Women's basketball 
seem to have worked out many early Price grabbed the rebound of a Ben season problems, including free Coleman missed shot and took it throw shooting (they shot 85 per­down court to hit a jumper and cent from the line Saturday) and of­widen the Notre Dame lead to three 
Notre Dame ends losing streak 
fensive production. points. By MIKE SULLIVAN game slump, but could not quite get for Coach Mary DiStanislao's team.
The key to solving many of these From that point on, the two teams Sports Editor things going. The team had been struggling badly
problems has been Irish captain traded baskets until Sluby hit a key For the final 16 minutes, however, heading into the game, forcing DiS­
Tom Sluby. Sluby, himself only a 41 18 foot jumper with 1:48 to play to For about a half and four minutes the Irish played nearly flawless bas­tanislao to juggle the lineup con­
percent foul shooter at Christmas, give the Irish a narrow 45-44 mar­now hits at a 59 percent rate from gin. Len Bias of the Terps was fouled of Friday night's game against ketball as they blew away from the stantly. But, by the time the Irish had 
Evans":lle, the Notre Dame Aces, 77-56, in the ACC to break put the finishing touches on the
the charity stripe. More importantly, in the act of shooting by Sluby 34 women's basketball team kept com­their losing streak. second half -a half in which Notre
the senior swingman has emerged as 
see MEN, page 9 

ing close to breaking out ofits four-The victory was an important one Dame doubled Evansville's score,
the team's star and leader, someone 42-21 -the slump seemed to be a
who will get a basket when the team thing of the past.
needs one, the same way John Pax­
Roundball Classic 
"As long as you can identity your

son did last year. problems, you can solve them," said
That leadership was evident Satur­DiStanislao. "We weren't playing
day when Sluby's driving layup with 
Saint Mary's takes third place 
productive weren't

18 seconds to play gavt· the Irish a defense, we taking good shots, we were turning
47-45 lead and essentially the win af­By DAVE WD.SON losing streak at three. The Lady Wolves were forced to the ball over too much, and the op­
ter he made a free throw to com­Sports Writer Paced by a season-high I9 points foul in the final minutes, allowing 
ponents were allowed to score. For

plete the three point play. from senior forward Cyndy Short, the Belles to drop the shots and ex­the most part, we improved on theseAlthough 6-l 7 may not have been In what was one of its finest bas­the Belles avenged Friday night's 88-tend the lead to as much as fourteen things."
one of Sluby's best shooting perfor­ketball performances this season, 61 setback to Moraine Valley Junior (65-5I ). SMC shot 61.5 percent What really improved was the
mances this season, he and sopho­Saint Mary's College scored a 70-62 College in the tournament's opening from the line on 16 of 26 attempts overall execution of the team in the
more forward Ken Barlow were the victory over the University of round. Purdue-Calumet, the tour­while Dearborn shot a miserable 6 of 
second hal( Nearly the entire team

keys in the 25-point Notre Dame Michigan-Dearborn Saturday, ney's fmal entrant, claimed the 24 attempts for 25 percent. 
contributed, a pleasant change from

first half that saw the Irish down 26-capturing third place in their own championship trophy with a close "I think you have to give Kris the losing streak which saw some25 at the intermission. Roundball Classic, and halting a 6I-58 triumph over Moraine Valley ( Pantelleria) and Betsy (Ebert) key players play ineffectively. 
on Saturday. some credit for the win too," con­Most noticeable wa'i the sudden"We really needed the win", said a tinued Rouse. "They both gave us resurgence of junior center Marypleased Mike Rouse, SMC head the offensive support we need from Beth Schueth. Schueth, who wao; not
coach. "I guess the best part of the all tht: players." 
seeing much playing time as thevictory was in our ability to come Pantelleria turned in an im­back after Friday night's loss. To me, pressive l 7 -point effort, while Ebert 

see WOMEN, page 8 

that's the mark ofa successful team." contributed eight points and a The Belles, who will compete strong game under the boards. Lori against both Dearborn and Purdue White and CarlaSebastycame offthe 
Irish ready to

again this season, finally produced bench to provide further offensive the team effort they have been support with three and two points, looking for this season. Capitalizing respectively, while junior guard 
face DePaul 

on sloppy play by the opposing Lady Mary McQuillan provided three 
The Notre Dame women's bao;­Wolves. the Belles opened up an points. For the Lady Wolves, Diane 
ketball team faces a major rival 

eight-point lead midway through Convery tied Short for scoring tonight when the Blue Demons 
the second quarter, and were ahead honors with 19 points, while Col­from DePaul visit the ACC at 7:30 
33-26 at halftime. leen Laurel had I 5 points. 
p.m. The contest should prove to 

"Our turnovers were not nearly "Cyndy (Short) had a terrific all­be a grudge match as the Irish try
the problem they usually are for us", around performance tonight," to avenge a 62-46 loss at DePaul 
commented assistant coach Jeff concluded Rouse. "We've been 
on)anuary 21. 

Roberts. "The other difference was counting on that kind of effort from It wa'i that loss that marked the 
in our shooting. More shots, and her all season." 
low point of the Notre Dame 

smarter shots too. The team was Friday night's contest against 
season. The defeat extended the 

really up for this one." Moraine Valley, unfortunately, was Irish losing streak to four. a streak 
Dearborn threatened in the not as up to par. The Belles spotted which was broken ·in Fridaysecond half, as they closed the gap to the Marauders a twelve-point lead night's 77-56 thrashing of 45-40 with a full twelve minutes midway through the first half, and Evansville (see related story).
remaining, but their efforts only were forced to play catch-up for the Mary DiStanislao's team would 
proved that Saint Mary's was the remainder of the game. A combina­lilce to show DePaul that its casv 
more determined of the two teams. tion of foul trouble by SMC (six win was a fluke. In order to do 
The Belles took advantage of two players with four or more fouls) and that, however. the Irish will have 
technical foul calls on the Dearborn talented free-throw shooting by to shut down Demon guard Barb 
bench as Elaine Suess, who had ten Moraine Valley (32 of 44) robbed Atsaves, who scored 20 points in 
points, converted three of the four the Belles of the victory. The home the first game, and forwardJanine 
free throws. team was not without impressive Douglas, who hao; been very ef­
Even when Suess fouled out with performance however. Suess turned 
fective in the last two games be­

nine minutes remaining, on some in a superb scoring effort with 25 tween the two teams. 
questionable calling by the referees, points, including 13 of I 5 free­The game is also verySaint Mary's found strong bench sup­throw attempts. The 5-5 center important in the conference 
port from forward Teresa McGinnis. ~arne alive in the second half to standings for both teams as they
McGinnis provided three key comer 
try to catch conference leader

baskets late in the game to maintain see BELLES, page 10 
Loyolathe lead. 






