
Student Senate-page 3 


VOL XIX, NO. 72 the imkpt·ntknt ~tudent rww~papt-r ~t-r\·ing notrt dame and ~aint man··~ TIJESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1984 

Chisholm analyzes recent U.S. politics 
By AMY STEPHAN 
into its own ... As blacks begin to 
Senior StaffReporter 
move in terms of power you have 'white flight.' " 
A candid evaluation of the past In the next four years the black and future of American politics was and white population of the South offcrt·d by Shirley Chisholm in her will join together and "take over the lecture la~t night at tht· Center for Democratic Party" she predicted.
Continuing Education. 
"They need each other." 
"You'll either like me or you'll "The face of liberalism has 
hate me. It doesn't bother me, be­changed," said Chisholm. "There are cause I'm going to call it as I sec it," new liberals for new times." She des­
said the former Congresswoman cribed today's liberals as more real­from New York. 
istic. They don't want "bigger"In the next four years both par­government, just better govern-• tics are going to fight for their souls," 
ment." said Chisholm, describing the fight Chisholm said the past presiden­
for power that she says will take tial was "not
campaign an place between the moderate and 
issue-oriented campaign." Peopleconservative Republicans and the 
voted for Ronald Reagan because restructuring she predicts for the 
they liked him, not because of his lkmocratic party. 
political policies, she said. 
"'Iltc Dcmot-ratic Party is not "Ronald Reagan is rather charm­finished at all," said Chisholm. "The ing in a personal way," said Chis­Democratic Party a~ we know it is 
holm, "I wouldn't say it if I didn't finished." 
believe it-dumb, but charming."
Chisholm's prt•diction for her She warned of the danger of an party's future: "The South will rise "imperial presidency" under again." 
Reagan, saying "when you can getShe described in depth the pres­people to like you and make you feel t•nt Southern political scene, saying 
good you can become an imperialthat Southern whites now in power 
president'' because people won't are afraid of the newly registered 
noti<;e gains in power.black electorate. "'Ilte black popula­copperplate wbicb forms tbe face is only slightly
see CHISHOLM, page 5
tion In the South is finally coming 
Gas leak may cause regulation reassessment, says professor 
By THERESA GUARINO porationss to set high standards that gases have been particularly danger­believe that Union Carbide moved nings, an expert on chemical wa~tes. Assistant News Editor must operate worldwide." ous to pregnant women, many of overseas to avoid stricter U.S. safety "The question is, were they enforc­'Ilte gas leak occurred at a Union whom had spontaneous abortions. regulations. "You have to respect ing them with the vigor they do 
'llte chemical ga~ leak in India Carbide pesticide plant In Bhopal, Officials of Union Carbide have the good will of a corporation and here?" said Jennings. which killed more than 2,000 India, a central Indian city of met with officials of the company's assume they thought they had good 
"There are two kinds ofrisks. Onepeople should cause U.S. companies 900,000. The poisonous gas was Indian subsidiary to discuss victim standards," he said. "It's too early to is where the workers arc exposed to to reassess their safety procedures identified as methyl isocyanate, a C<>mpensation. Detectives from the tell what happened. Someone may danger when they walk on the site,and make certain ofsafety standards, chemical used in the developing of Indian Central Bureau of Investiga­have gotten careless or not seen the and have agreed to assume that dan­said Notre Dame management pro-pesticides. The fumes apparently tion have confiscated all log books potential for disa~tcr." 

ger. The other risk is to people whofes~or John Houck. leaked from a 45-ton underground and documents pertaining to The safety standards In the U.S. 

live near a plant and have made no

Houck, an expert in business et-storage tank. storage and release of gas at the fac­and overseas are identical for most hies, said it Is "important that the Casualties from the accident have tory. American corporations, according 
see LEAK, page 5 government works with U.S. cor-numbered In the thousands, and the Houck said there is no reason to to engineering professor Aaron Jen-

Roemer 'isn't missing anything' as director of community relations 
By MARK POTTER wanted a new management team He also is on the board of direc­AssistantNews Editor when he moved into his new job. He tors of Neighborhood Study Help, wanted a fresh approach." the Holy Cross Associates, Neigh­James Roemer is 1 "absolutely Because of this reorglnlzation, borhood Services, and Friends ofthe delighted" with his new job as direc­John Goldrick took over many of Unemployed. Roemer also is on tor of community relations and spe­Roemer's fon:ner duties when he committees of the United Religious cial projects, and he "isn't missing" became the associate vice president Community, the Shelter for the many of the responsibilities that for residence life. Street People, the South went with his former position as When Bill Sexton, vice president Bend/Mishawaka Chamber of Com­dean ofstudents. for University relations, learned merce, and the Snlte Museum. He 
Roemer began his new job Oct. I. Roemer would no longer be dean of has been the chairman of United His absence from school at the students, he spoke with Tyson about Way at Notre Dame in pa~t years. beginning of the academic year the possibility of Roemer working Roemer describes his job a~ a prompted many rumors, but with University relations, according "liason between Notre Dame and Roemer said he didn't start his job in to Roemer. "They gave me a lot of the local community." August because he was given a three options and then Bill (Sexton) basi­"Notre Dame is very involved In month sabbatical. cally created a job for me." the local community. lbere are 
"h was really nice to have a vaca­"It is just about the perfect job for close to 1,500 student volunteers in­tion. It was a time for me to relax," me. Itfits my strengths and weaknes­volved with the community In some Roemer said. ses very well. It is really exciting, a way and the faculty and staff are 
Roemer said, "The reorganization very good opportunity because it Is heavily involved too," Roemer said. had nothing to do with the alcohol sort ofmy dream, to be able to repre­Roemer said he currently is policy and directives. I worked sent Notre Dame's values to the working on an emergency snow closely with Father Tyson and Fa­local community." shoveling system. Student volun­ther Beauchamp on that. There was Roemer's duties involve working teers would be supplied with 

thicker than a penny and bas been damaged by chemical corrosion. It will be replaced as part of tbe general renovation oftbe statue. 


Former Democratic Congresswoman andpresidential candidate  no disagreement between us then,  with South Bend Mayor Roger Par­ shovels, and would help people dig  
Shirley Chisholm, spoke to an enthusiastic audience last night at  nor Is there now.  ent. "I meet with him on a regular  their homes out after particularly  
tbe Center for Social Concerns. Chisholm gave ber views on tbepast  "The new vice president for stu­ basis to work on student Involve­ see ROEMER, page 5  
andfuture oftbe American political system. Story above ..  dent affairs (Father David Tyson)  ment in the city," he said.  

' 

cerned citizens. Carmichael said there is no violation of state law "provided they have not copied the trademark of Coleco (which makes the original Cabbage Patch doll). Ifthere are copyright viola­tions, then that is a violation offederal law. But the ones we've seen so far have not had any trademarks." -AP 
• 

A nine-montllstrike has transformed Britain's coal mining communities into battlefields where three people have been killed, nearly 2,000 injured and more than 8,500 arrested. The country has never before witnessed such sustained and widespread violence in an industrial dispute. Night after night, 1V viewers see hundreds of miners massed outside strikebound coal mines, build­ing flaming barricades, hurling rocks and bottles at police and shout­ing abuse. They see police surging toward picket lines behind a curtain ofriot shields or in horseback charges. There have been bru­tal attacks on individual working miners and their homes, and the National Council for Civil Liberties has accused police of provoca­tion. -AP 
Of Interest 
SlletlalligariS Notre Dame's singing and dancing en­semble, will present its annual Christmas performance tonight at 8 in· the library auditorium. The program will include both Christmas and popular music. A reception will follow the performance. -The Obseroer 
A tnandatorymeetingofGround Zero will be held this evening at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Obseroer 
RickSchitnpf,3 juniorfrom Keenan Hall, has been named manager of new student-run general store, Student Body President Robert Bertino announced yesterday. Applications still are being accepted in the student government offices for assistant manager and part-time employees. The store will open Wednesday, january 16th, at the beginning of next semester. -The Obseroer 
Theseniorclass senior ski trip sign-ups will be tonight from 7 until 9. An extra bus has been added and the spaces will be filled on a first-come first-served basis.-The Obseroer 
Jbevarsitysport Oftile mind, College Bowl, 
will be holding an informational meeting tonight at 6:30 in Room 202 of the Center for Continuing Education. Sign-up sheets for team rosters will be available. Dr. Peter Lombardo, moderator of College Bowl for Notre Dame, also will answer questions and explain the rules of the upcoming annual Notre Dame College Bowl Tourna­ment to take place second semester.-The Obseroer 
Weather 
Incredibly wann and clearing today with a high near 50. Partly cloudy with a twenty percent chance of showers tonight. Lows from 35 to 40. Cloudy and cooler tomor­row with a forty percent chance of showers and a high between 40 and 45. -AP 


The Observer-Today"s issue was produced by, 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is Production Consultant ........ Steve Foster published Monday through Friday and Design Editor .............................. Tom Small on home football Saturdays, except DesignAssistant........................ Anne Long 
during exam and vacation periods. The 

Layout Staff. .................... Catherine Coffey Observer is published by the studems of Typesetters .............. Mary Ellen, Tom. Ted the University of Notre Dame and Saini News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Copy Editor ............................... )ohn Heasly purchased for $30 per year ( S20 per se· Sports Copy Edltor ................ Mike and jeff mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Viewpoint Layout..................... Paul Bruce Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. ND Day Editor .................. Barbara Stevens 
The Observer is a member of The SMC Day Edltor ............ Anne Monastyrski Associated Press. All reproduction Ad Deslgn ................................ Susan O'Hara rights are reserved. Photographer ............... Chaitanya Panchal 

ready for next year, whereas a few chosen teams such as your Wolverines are preparing to play in a post-season while BYU's opponents have a combined record of 54­bowl game. 79-3, Oklahoma's were only 52-63-6 and Washington's 
Since this is a near emergency, however, it is hoped a mere 55-66-0. Douglas S. Looney of Sports Il­that you will find it within your facility to take a few lustrated jumps on the bandwagon, saying that not only minutes to sit and read this very special piece ofcorres­should BYU be taken seriously, but also should their pondence, although is it very possible that your schedule, for, as he put it, competition in the Western tolerance for this particular subject has long been ex­Athletic Conference is "really a lot better than skeptics hausted. will admit. Air Force has become a formidable power, 
Bo, I have been pondering for several years the tradi­and Wyoming and Hawaii are dangerous." tional process whereby· a national college football Dangerous. Stop laughing, Bo. Here's another statistic champion is chosen, and al-for you. Oklahoma and though I can usually force Washington both played myself to agree with the three teams who are going Associated Press' top to bowl games this year. And choice, it so happens that that's not counting the dan­this season there exists a sit­gerous teams. Brigham uation which is totally unac­Young played one. And won ceptable. Having by five. At home. (By the studied the voting results of way, Bo, we both played the last few seasons, the in­seven, for the record.) escapable conclusion is that But even their coach, those who have voting LaVell Edwards, believes power overall vote not so they deserve to be No. 1. "I much for the best teams, but think we have as legitimate a rather those teams who have claim on it as anyone, more the least losses. The top spot than anyone for that mat­must go to someone who ter," he said after his team's has not lost a game, and as 
38-13 pasting of powerful you follow the next teams Utah State. on down the line their losses ''I'm sure Nebraska would increase arithmetically, love to go back and play depending not so much on who they lost to but rather Syracuse (who upset Nebraska, 17-9), Oklahoma would at what time ofthe season they lost. love to go back and play Kansas (who upset the Sooners, 
And thus, Bo, the resulting debacle is a Top 20 at 28-11 ), and South Carolina would like to go back and whose apex is found none other than one Brigham play Navy (who upset the Gamecocks, 38-21 ), and so Young University, who through little fault ofits own has on down the line. We had our Kansases, our Syracuses managed to squirm by with an undefeated 12-0 record. and our Navys and this particular group of guys has al­A 12-0 record is normally quite impressive, but Bo, ways come out a winner. To me, that's what makes them surely you must realize that under these circumstances legitimate in the rankings." even a 10-2 final tally would be nothing short ofembar­·Yes, but, did they have their Oklahoma States, their rassing. Texases, or their UCLAs? No, but it doesn't matter. 
Brigham Young doesn't play anybody, and it's as They're No. 1 in the nation because they haven't lost simple as that. And until they do, they can't truly prove yet. themselves. Bo, you are in an envious position -just about any 
team in the Top 10 would love to be in your place. If 
The Orange Bowl committee has lately been touting you can knock off BYU in the Holiday Bowl nine days
the game as the game which will decide the national from now, you can put an end to this farce of college
championship, and well it should. The teams involved football, and make a lot ofpeople infinitely happier.
have proven themselves: No. 2-ranked Oklahoma is 9-1­1, and No. 4-ranked Washington is 10-1-0. Beware of Best ofluck, strangers bearing statistics that will inform you that A Concerned College Football Fan 

~~~~~~~~~~ 
We Need You! 

r Need a Christmas gift idea for J Work for 2 hours a week lay­
~ brother, father orfriend? j
ing out a daily newspaper. Stop in at The Observer of­

f WOMEN OF N.D. CALENDAR 1985 ~ 
fices for an application. \}: makes a GREAT Christmas gift ! ~ 
Spots open for 2nd semester 





t .f
Benefits the YWCA's Women's Shelter Charity 
The Observer 
3rd floor, LaFortune Student Center 

L:::::::::::::::::J, 

SENIORS: CHALLENGE YOURSELF! HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
A one year post-graduate experience which allows you to live in community and develop your faith and discern your priorities. THINK ABOUT IT ! 
Application deadline-February 1st 
For more information contact: Mary Ann Roemer M.J. Murray Center for Social Concerns: 239-7949 239-5521 



The Observer Tuesday, December 11, 1984 -page 3 

j 
The Obscrv~r/ChaJtanya Panchal

Video relaxation 
Mmrlssey senior Dan Falter takes a break at many students are taking advantage ofany free one ofthe video games in LaFortune before finals time left before exams. beJ<in this week. With on~y two days ofclasses left, 
BANKING... ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers &ee checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. Friday-ll:OOa.m. -4:00p.m. ~source 
..:aank

Join Michiana's 1st Team 
for unsurpa"sed banking service! Member F.D.I.C. 
7:15am OSCEOLA



~--------------~1 7:45am 1ST SOURCE CENTER 
8:008111 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
§


:..I' s 
information ~ and reservations 
8
~ §
§ ~'~::~~,
P, 0. Bo11 1«J2 
Soulh Berd. lndll,. 48G34 
211112J8.2tl60 
• ~iCOOOCIOI:>ol::tOCIOO~
L 

WVFI and Audio Specialists of South Bend•.• 
********************************** 
* * 
: $50 gift certificate drawing from : 
* ~ Audio Specialists. !* 
* *
********************************** 
Clip coupon and place in the box next to the AMstereo display in the New Orleans room, LaFortune. 

$1.00 Off 


Student parking in D-2 urged to prevent theft 
By MIKE MILLEN 
Senior StaffReporter 
In a move to protect student­
owned cars from vandalism, senator 
Javier Oliva announced implemen­
tation ofhis plan for students to park 
in the D-2 lot over Christmas break, 
during last night's Student Senate 
meeting. 
He was critical, however, of Se­
curity Director Glenn Terry's Oliva 
wants the lot locked, but said Terry 
was worried about the 
"inconvenience" to his personnel 
who would have to unlock the gate 
for students requesting their cars 
before the start of next semester. 
Executive Coordinator Ray Wise 
found fault in Terry's reasoning, 
saying ''D-2 is notorious for prob­
lems (ofcar vandalism), and leaving 
the gate unlocked and putting all the 
cars there will act like a magnet." 
Oliva explained that few students, if 
any, would need their cars over 
break and those interested in start­
ing their cars for maintenance could 
enter through the pedestrian 
entrances ofthe lot. 
A solution was proposed involv­
ing locked gates with a $20 fine 
CY"J"J"J"J"J"J"~ 
§r =~~·~~=•ro ~ s§ [I)sl~i . § 

g t;;UIIIUIISIIIII11 
i 
$29.00
I§ 
BUS and LIIT TICKETS ~ Rontab $8. 00 extra ~ CO!IVEIIIDIT DEPARTURE POINTS Ali1J DATES 
I§ DECEIII!ER 16, 1984 JAlllJARY 20, 1985 
FEBRUARY 10, 1985 
FEBRUARY 24, 1985
~ 

~ llffi\({•l!fijt,J 
levied against anyone needing them opened. Oliva said even with the fine proposal, Terry would be un­cooperative. 
Student Senator Pat Browne an­nounced the Notre Dame Student Saver, the new student bookstore, would open on Wednesday, january 16th. It will be open from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Friday, ini­tially having 95 different items in stock. 
When asked about the administra­tion's condition that "the store will not expand its inventory without ap­proval," Browne said "It's really not important right now." He added this would become an issue only when the store has ·firmly established it· self. 
Student Body President Rob Ber­tino opened discussion on the senate's participation in leadership conferences. The next conference will be in Texas in late February, at a cost of S375 per person. He said dis­cussion topics would include fresh­man orientation programs and professionalism In student govern­ment. 
Many senate members questioned 
the effectiveness ofsuch an expense. 
Observer Bill Healy said "I just think 
you're doubling up information for a 
lot of money," alluding to the $200 
which the senate spent last week to 
join a nationwide college informa­
tion service. 
Wise agreed, adding not only is Notre Dame student government unique, but other schools' experi­ences would not improve Notre Dame enough to justify S375. 
Student Body Treasurer AI Novas asked "Why not start up something here?" and have other schools come to Notre Dame. Bertino tabled the issue for a future senate meeting. 
In other business, Jack Seiler was announced the new Off-Campus So­cial Commissioner. 


Correction 
Because of a reporting error, informatinn was stated incor­rectly in the Inside column of Monday, Dec. 3. Saint Mary's Stu­dent Activities is still considering bids for a hairstylist. The location of the new hairstylist on campus has not been determined. 
$1.00 off any p1zza. One coupon per pizza. 
Fast, Free Dellvery'M 


The Observer Tuesday, December II, I984 -page 4 




Role of laity increasing in parishes, according to a nationwide survey 
By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL 
StaffReporter 
The Catholic Church is seeing an increase in the amount of participa· tion by the laity in parish life, accor­ding to the first ofa series of reports released yesterday by the Notre Dame Study ofCatholic Parish Life. 
The study, begun in 1981 by Fa­ther John Egan, former director of Notre Dame's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, has compiled data through an elaborate question and interview process over the past three years. 
According to Monsignor Joseph Gremillion, current director of the Institute, American parishes are in a period of transformation. 
"Today, there is a much greater participation by lay members of the parish," said Gremillion. "This in· eludes participation in the policy and goal setting process within the parish, participation in the financial structuringofthe parish, and partici· pation in liturgical ministry in the sense ofbeing in the sanctuary." 
According to David Leege, direc­tor of the Center for the Study of Contemporary Society and the "scientific director" of the study, many believe the Church is return­ing to its roots as a lay Church. 
"Many of us grew up with the no­tion that it was a very clerical Church and that lay persons didn't have much reponsiblity for mini­stry," said Leege. "Now with the decline in vocations, if these mini· stries are going to be accomplished at all in the parish, they have to be done by lay persons. This study 
Retreat house offers time for reflection 
By CATIIYANN REYNOLDS 
StaffReporter 
For the past eight years, students have come to Mary's Solitude, a retreat house at Saint Mary's, for a "time of quiet," according to Sister Mary Ann Uebbing, one of the Holy Cross Sisters living there. 
Private retreats are emphasized at the house, which is located behind Augusta Hall, though groups ofup to ten are accepted. 
"I feel we are a unique retreat house because our staff lives here," she said. Since the opening of Mary's Solitude, from four to seven Holy Cross Sisters have been living there at one time. 
The home has twelve available bedrooms, a chapel, a kitchen, and a lounge with a fireplace. 
Every semesteran ongoing retreat is conducted which involves a two­hour meeting once a week. 
The meetings involve films, talks, individual input, and group presen­tations centered around some theme. The retreat group usually goes to the chapel or has a short prayer service, and ends the two hour session with refreshments. 
Everyone involved makes a com­mitment to pray at least fifteen minutes each day on their own. Each time the group meets, usually on a week-end, they "share what hap­pened · what did the Lord do · and their ups and downs,"since they last met, Uebbing said. "People es­tablish special relationships" during a retreat, Uebbing said. 
The only difficulty that she has found is "the commitment every week" because of the student's 5IDdy concerns. She also said that lbry's Solitude is a place of prayer ...a-not a place to study." 
makes it very clear that laity are deeply involved in the leadership and in the conduct ofthe ministry of the parish." 
According to the first report, parishes in which the pastor alone "leads his flock" no longer exist. Most American Catholics attend the parish within whose locality they live, and Catholic parishes on the average are growing, with two­thirds of them serving populations· of 1,000 or more. Eighty-five per­cent of those in the study felt satisfied with their parishes, and seventy-five percent would not feel bad if they had to leave their parish for another. 
The study, which was funded by a $347,000 grant from the Wly En­dowment Fund, surveyed some I, I 00 Catholic parishes across the United States. It is the first ofits kind in the United States since Vatican II, which is a key reason for its develop­ment. 
"There was very much a need for it (the study) because parish life has probably changed more in the last twenty years since the second Vatican Council than it has in any other comparable period of history in the United States," said Gremil­lion. 
"It is the first report which makes a nationwide survey ofparish organ­izations, leadership, decision making processes, liturgical pro­grams, and measures these in terms of the changes that have occured since 1964." 
Since the call for changes with Vatican II, Gremillion and Leege both agree with the increased re­sponsibilities given to the laity. In support of this, Gremillion ex­
277-1875 

•..........................................................................................................................................................................................................1 
llill ......................................................................................................................................................................................................1 
STUDENT SPECIAL ALOHA BOWL 
December 24-31, 1984 $899 perperson triple occupancy 
TRAVEL WITH THE TEAM CHARTER FLIGHT FROM CHICAGO 6 NIGHTS WAIKIKI ACCOMMODATIONS TRANFERS IN HAWAII WITH TICKET TO THE ALOHA BOWL 
Call downtown office only 236-2656 ask for the Aloha Bowl 
Master Card or Visa accepted student 10 required 
Box 1602 South Bend, Indiana 46634 (219)236-2656 
plained the increased importance placed upon such organizations as the parish council which is recognized as vital to a parish in the . study. 
"Seventy-five percent of the parishes in the United States now have parish councils -that is policy and decision making bodies -in which the laity are probably ninety percent of the composition of that body," said Gremillion. 
Another striking result, according to Leege, is the fact that twenty-four percent ofthe laity in the study were involved in some type of spiritual renewal, Bible study, religious dis­cussion or pr<~yer group. Leege believes such a finding is unique be­cause this type of activity was reserved for the clergy in the past. 
With this initial report and with the additional reports to be pub­lished every other month, Leege believes the Church will be able to realize its current position and the direction it must now take. He also believes it is now up to the leaders in the Church to act upon these fin­dings. 
"It's not our job to tell the Church what it ought to do now -it's the Church's job to take a good look at what these empirical findings offer and try to interpret ways in which local parishes could become more effective or less effective," said Leege. 
On the whole, the two directors involved are pleased with the study and believe the results from it have been positive. Both the welcoming of the laity into parish leadership by the clergy and the overall positive influences ofVaticanII contribute to their positive belief. 

I 


MADD sponsors vigil 
ByJOHN MENNELL 
AssistantNews Editor 
The South Bend and Elkhart chapters of Mothers Against Drunk Driving sponsored a candlelight vigil last night to mark the first day of National Drunk and Drugged Driving Awareness Week. 
Similar vigils were held throughout the country, accor­ding to chapter President Dr S. B. Smoller. The vigils, he said, were for the memory of those killed and injured in alcohol-related accidents. 
Congress has declared this week National Drunk and Drugged Driving Awareness week. Approximately 50 people were at the vigil near the County­City building on Jefferson Ave. in South Bend. 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE APARTMENTS 
YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME 
2 -bedroom furnished apartments 
Available ... Winter semester ... convenient . .. spacious ... Laundry facilities ... plentiful parking ... superior maintenence ... 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL: 
(219) 234-6647 

Plant a Smile 
d-=:=H:L.ou_r•_12:3_0-5:3_0GARDENs 

After unsuccessful attempts to light candles because of the wind, the names ofsome of those killed in South Bend and Elkhart were read. "The actual numbers are too great to count," Smoller said. A moment of silence fol­lowed. 
"We don't have anything against drinking," Smoller said, "Just drinking and driving." 
When asked about the involve­ment of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's chapter, Smoller said he has not been in contact with the student chapter here. 
He also said M.A.D.D. "would 
much prefer" to see the students 
drinking in their rooms and 
dorms where they would be 
walking rather than driving. 
Four officers were honored 
with plaques for their service. • 

The Observer Tuesday, December 11, 1984 -page 5 


Wednesday night dinner among complaints at Gripe Night 
Special to The Observer • Howard Hall plumbing is terrible:. •"Engineering recitations" are an ex­•Dissatisfaction with dining hall salad •St. Michael's laundry should be more •The sinks and showers in the Rock tra hour engineers don't need. 
dressings. careful, they ruin too many clothes. grkvances need to be cleaned. 
The following were •Everytime there is a social complaint •No jobs Ifnot financially qualified ex· 
•LaFortune 
needs improvement. aired at last week's Gripe Night in •"Ibe Rock needs new basketballs. they build a park. 

•What 
happened to the box lunches cept In dining halls. the South Dining Hall and were col­•Asbestos in Howard Hall. •Lack of liverwurst in the dining halls. • Why do we to spaghetti


promised for the Purdue road trip? have eat lected by Ombudsman. •Lack of butter in the North Dining is Vaseline in the
•There no •Quiet hours too restrictive in some every Wednesday night? 

According to Ombudsman Direc­Hall. bookstore/lack of certain necessary dorms. •Dining hall should have more self· tor Harry Sienkiewicz, the •'Ibe thermostat Is up too high In Fis· goods in bookstore. 
service.
•Lack of toilet paper in Alumni Hall

complaints will be addressed to her Hall's ba.~ement. •There ought to be a speed limit for •Cockroach problems In all dorms. bathrooms.
their sources. Gripe nights are held •There's not enough heat on first-floor golf carts. 
•Toilet paper rollers don't roll. 
•The Observer failed to give sufficient the first Monday night of each Fisher. •Other people besides athletes should •Coke at meals Is flat. 

month. •Italian dinners are undercooked. be: allowed to ride golf carts ifInjured. coverage of"Sweeney Todd" -not even a •Dining halls should serve banana.~ for •'Ibe alcohol pulley. •Dissatisfaction with hall rc:presc:nta-review. 
breakfast more often. 

•l.at·k ofObsertlers In both dining halls •More chocolate: cream pie. lion to Dr. Hofman. •Telephone cords on library phones 
•Need more time to move out of 

and LaFortune after I:00 p.m. •Fisher needs more SYR's and dorm •Clocks should be installed In every fall off. 
rooms after finals. parties. classroom. •Credit union should not hold checks •Lack ofefficiency In dining halls. 
•'Ibe Oak Room Cafeteria Is over· •Extend breakfa.~t until 10:30 a.m. •Change grading policy to include for three weeks. •Improve the salad bars. crowded during lunch time:. •Serve: more chicken patty sandwiches "fl's". •Washing machines In Badin need 
•Computer terminals should be set up 

•Too many related exams are sched­at meal~. •Add bagpipes to the ND band. repair. 
In classes. 

uled at the same: time: or within the same •Obseroers should be delivered to the •More lighting Is needed in dorm • Electricity is wasted in classrooms week. law School. rooms. where lll!hts are left on overnight. 

Chisholm 
continuedfrom page 1 
Chisholm said Geraldine Ferraro opened the door for women to be on a major party's presidential ticket, but because she was the first woman nominated for the vice presidency 

,
by a major party she went through 

,.,
an "inquisition never seen for any 
man running for vice president. Had 

~ 
Spirow Agnew been put on the stand ,like her, he wouldn't have been able 
1 
to get his little toe on the ticket." , 
Chisholm said she believes Fer­, raro was "not the right woman at , this time." She said Undy Boggs of Louisiana would have been a better ~ choice, because "everyone in the 1 South liked Undy Boggs." 
"Politics can and should be impor­,
1 
tant," said Chisholm, "and can 

,
sometimes be fun." 



Roemer 
continuedfrom page 1 
heavy snowfalls, according to the 
plan. 
Roemer said he has several other goals, "First, I would like to under· stand the relationship between Notre Dame and the local commu­nity better. 11ten I would like to try to determine what the needs arc and what we can do to determine any obstacles and problems and then to mobilize our resources to solve them." 
"I would like to get more involved with the local business community to try to infuse the Catholic and Christain values of Notre Dame into the business community." 
Currently Roemer is in the process of meeting with the deans of each of the University schools to de­termine the resources available to the local community from the various schools. If he finds inade­quate resources, Roemer hopes the deans will refer him to people who can. 


Leak ,
continuedfrom page I ,
,
decision on exposing themselves to danger." 1 
Houck believes it is the responsi­bility of the corporations to set the safety standards in business practices. "Companies can't rely on 

j
some underdeveloped countries to 
set standards. We must first rely on the corporation, who must set its _ 
own high standards. 11tese standards 

can be tested by the U.S. govern­I 
1
ment and used worldwide." 

"Even agencies like the EPA and ,1 FDA frequently rely on corporation , data," he said. "It's a case of the federal government double­checking what standards the corpo· rations set. In India, they might not have the scientists to check it over." 
Houck also pointed the need for dangerous chemicals in certain areas of technology. "We're depen­dent on some of these chemicals," he said. "On the other hand, there's the potential of doing terrible destruction." 




---~----------------­

View~_o_·_i_n__t________T_u_esd-ay._,D_ec-em_b_er_ll~,1_98_4::..-.pa-ge-6 The nightmare of slavery in South Africa 

P.O. BoxQ 
knocked unconscious and lay on the frozen
A~OMENT <lf SilENCE 
sidewalk for what seemed like an eternity, sur­Where has the sense of rounded by Security staff and Farley Hall staff waiting for paramedics to arrive. This, too, 
IN ~TH ffRICA 
responsibility gone 
was in the "spirit of fun" as more ice-packed snowballs whizzed by and bottle rockets Dear Editor: glared in the night inches from the faces and 
Last Thursday evening was the annual eyes ofpeople. North and South Quad snowfight -a night of All of this occurred while glass shattered, merrymaking, rambunctiousness and revelry. dorm by dorm, and the mob surged on. All of AsThe Observer article the next day stated, "it this occurred in the spirit offun as one could was, ofcourse, the annual battle ofsnow dust, hear a surge ofcheers as each window's shat­ice balls and downjackets -Notre Dame's own ter sounded in the usually calm Notre Dame version of a civil war, North vs. South, and it night. Could this be Notre Dame? happens every year without exception on the 
As I stood out in the cold, huddled around night of the first snowfall." It takes place all in the injured young merry-maker, waiting forthe spirit offun, at least from a particular per­medical assistance, I looked up at Our Lady. I spective. The spirit that bound the students 
somehow expected her to change her coun­together was indeed commendable and began 
tenance but she remained, as always, brightin the spirit of fun. For many, though, the in­and gleaming over the throng.
juries that ensued and the damages of prop­erty transformed the merriness and triviality There is a fine line between having fun and of the evening. creating havoc, between a group and a mob. 

From inside looking out, the scene was ter­Where has the sense of responsibility gone? I The Observer rifying. Six windows in Farley Hall alone were would hope that the mob did not intend to
Editorial Board Department Managers 

P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 shattered by harshly-packed snowballs, hurt anyone. I would also hope that the mob 
Ed!for m·Chrel BobVondert>eocle Bus mess Managet 
Da~e Tarc1e1 ManagmgEdriOt MarkWorscheh Controller 
Marrpat Horne 
hurled in the spirit of the excitement. These did not intend to shatter splinters ofglass over

The Obu•tver tS the tndependent newspaper pubtrshad by the students at the 
NewsEcirlor Sonah H.:~mrlton Adver/tsmg Manager AnneCul!rgan

Untv&tStly at Nctre Dame du lac ;~nd Sau·H Marys College 11 does not necessanly 
News Edrtor Dan McCullough C~tcuratron Managet JeffO'Nerll 

SarntMarys Edrlor AnneMo'laSlyrsk• Systems Manager Kev1nWIIha.ms innocent snowballs shattered windows, splin­innocent people inside. In fact, I would like to accu'"'"''Y and as obteCtovety as possrble Unsu~ned edttortiilll<; represent the ol'frHOn 
reflect frle potu::•es ottne aom.n•strati0111JI etlher tl'l!llt\Uiton The news os reported as 
Sports Edrtot Mrchae1Sulhva'1 

or a mato"l) or the Edt!Oflal Beato Commenlartes letters and the rnstde Column tering glass, fragments and chunks, over the be sure the mob probably did not even intend
Vre-wpomt Ccir/or OeveGmt'l present the v•ews ot theor autho•s Cotumn spiic.e •S a~atlabte to all members ot tht> 
FeatUiesErlllor Mary Heat) 

communtty and the tree e•pressron ot vtiiY'"ll o~.untons on campus ll'tfough tetters Founded November 3, 1966 inhabitants and the lodging within. Outside, a to be a mob. In fact, I am sure that each mem­
Photo Edt/Or Pete laches

tsencouraged 
young man slipped in front of Farley, was ber of the annual snowfight; standing alone, 

Last night I had a nightmare. Once again, Jesus was on trial. I do not recall the judge, but I was in the audience, sort ofin the middle ofa huge audience. 
Jesus walked into the courtroom dressed in white, and we all cheered him. Silence was or-
Santiago O'Donnell 
free-lance 
dered and the prosecutor began with his ac­cusation: 
"Why didn't jesus explicitly support the abolition ofslavery? How can he claim to be a perfect being and the living testimony of God on earth and, at the same time, sanction with his silence the evil ofslavery?" 

U.S. space program explores space's 
r. 
r  
r  The U.S. space program has come under  
r  close scrutiny lately and has been accused of  
r r  having no goal or purpose. People often criticize such items as the President's Strate­ 
gic Defense Initiative or NASA's space shuttle  
and space station programs without really un­ 
derstanding the underlying reasons for such  
programs. Many people in the United States  
are under the impression that we, as a nation,  
are conducting activity in space for its own  
sake.  
This notion is as close to the truth as that  
which espouses the settlers of the 'western  

Robert Mahoney 
r 
guest column 
r 
r 
United States left the eastern seaooara simply to prove that it could be done. 
The first and most mentally distracting thought that these people should get out of their minds is that space is somehow philosophically different than any other loca­tion that man might find himselfin -it is not. 
If a nation has access to a resource which can further the improvement of that nation's condition, then that nation would be foolish not to utilize that resource to its fullest poten­tial. Earth orbit provides many such re­sources. Microgravity and near perfect vacuum at low cost and for long periods per­mit research in new pharmaceuticals and electronic relay systems which respectively might eventually yield a cure for cancer or permit person-to-person communication around the earth at significantly reduced fees. Earth orbit is also a precious resource as a vantage point from which to survey the entire 
"But you must take the historical circum­stances into consideration," interrupted the lawyer. "Slavery was abolished nineteen cen­turies after the death ofChrist. Ifjesus would have taken issue against slavery in his time and place ... immediately be would have been ... " 
"What? crucified?" This time the prosecu­tor interrupts. "You can'tget any worse than that in terms ofpunishment, andjesus suf­fered it. What did be have to lose? He wouldn't lose followers because his fol­lowers were poor and ignorant. He called and they followed. They didn't question 
jesus' ideas in terms of history or 
rationality." He looks at the lawyer. The 
lawyer is ready to answer. 
"jesusbada mission on earth: to preach, to give testimony to the word ofGod. Speaking up against slavery would have led to an 
earth's surface easily and inexpensively. 
Many persons seem to misunderstand the purposes and intentions of particular space­related programs and, therefore, a few ex­planations and a few references to history may be required to set them straight. Let us start with the military side of the story. 
The Strategic Defense Initiative (referred to in the popular press as the "Star Wars" pro­gram) is a Department of Defense research ef­fort aimed at determining the feasibility of establishing a ballistic missile defense system, one possibly utilizing space-based elements. The main thrust of the SDI is to examine tech­nologies which might enable the deployment of such a system, if the deployment of such a system is deemed economically and politi­cally justifiable. The SDI is not a plan to place orbiting battle stations ofany sort into orbit. 
The civilian space program, under the di­rection of the NASA, is more open to the public and is therefore under much closer scrutiny. Even with this greater access to in­formation about the program, some people still seem to misunderstand many significant points concerning NASA's endeavors. 
The drive for a U.S. space station did not grow from a fear of the Soviet Union's advan­tage of man-hours in space gained between the 1975 Apollo-Soyuz flight and first space shuttle flight in 1981. 
The space station was proposed by NASA to Congress in the late 1960s and early 1970s as a follow-up to the moon program. NASA wanted a laboratory in earth orbit to conduct research as well as a reusable transportation system to get to it. At the time, Congress would fund only one ofthese programs. Since a facility in earth orbit would not have been very practical without an inexpensive means of getting back and forth, NASA opted to 
early arrest ofjesus, thus interrupting his mission." 
"This is ridiculous, your Honor," argued the prosecutor. "Why didn't jesus condemn slavery at the Last Supper, then?" 
Suddenly, I woke up in the basement of LaFortune, my nose in a notebook and four pages to go on my religion paper. I woke up, but the nightmare was not over. As I recalled my horrible dream, I began thinking. 
God made the United States number one, but the United States quietly supports the South African regime with military equip­ment, millions of dollars ofeconomic aid and private investment -supporting racism, dis­crimination and apartheid, an existence only a step away from slavery. 
"Immoral, evil and totally unchristian" were the words that Bishop Tutu used to describe the U.S. administration's policy in 
develop the shuttle first and to proceed with the space station later. Now that the, shuttle will soon become fully operational, President Reagan has given the go-ahead for the es­tablishment ofthe space station. 
The space station program itselfis an under­taking di_rcctcd at enhancingactivities in earth orbit by utilizing the direct interaction ofmen on the scene. Time and time again man has proven his worth in space by salvaging mis­sions which would have been total failures without his flexible, on-site decision-making capabilities. The recent satellite recovery, which succeeded in its primary goal despite not going as intitially planned, was a perfect demonstration of man's usefulness in orbital operations. Satellite servicing, earth observa­tions, materials and pharmaceutical investiga­tions, celestial research and further unmanned exploration of the solar system arc some of the currently planned endeavors which involve the station program. All of these efforts are pointed toward either the im­provement of conditions on earth or the gain ofscientific knowledge. 
Regrettably, many people misunderstand the space program as a whole. They believe that the program is exclusive to assisting the world's disadvantaged and imply in their criticisms that the program is somehow . spending money up in space and is therefore neglecting the needs and problems that we all face here on earth. This belief is doing the people ofthe Space Administration a great dis­service. 
Many endeavors undertaken by NASA not only help in alleviating many of the problems faced bypoorer peoples but, in fact, are specif­ically designed to provide assistance. The LANDSAT program uses spacecraft designed South Africa. The most recent Nobel Peace Prize winner, Tutu is the black Anglican bis­hop designate of Johannesburg. Tutu's state­ment was part of a speech he delivered last Wednesday in the U.S. House of Representa­tives. I kept on thinking. 
For many of us, God made Notre Dame number one. A year ago, a group of students approached the Board of Trustees with a let­ter asking for information about possible Notre Dame investments in South Africa and weapon companies that cooperate with the South African government. 
The answer was "thank you for your con­cern, but we cannot release this information." Let us pray Notre Dame is not a part of this nightmare. 
Santiago O'Donnell is a sophomore in the College ofArts and Letters at Notre Dame. 


potential 
to examine natural resources including crop yield potential and soil nutrient content and thereby assists farmers in this country and offi­cials in their world governments in properly managing their agricultural practices. 
Weather satellites, by permitting more ac­curate storm predictions and monitoring, and the LAGEOS earth dynamics satellite, by studying the movements of tectonic plates along earthquake fault lines, allow for the de­tection ofpotential natural disasters in time to move people away from possibly dangerous sites. The October flight ofChallenger carried an imaging radar capable of detecting under­ground faults and rifts. The presence of these geologic formations often indicates the pres­

# 
ence of water which can be tapped for irriga­tion and water supply. 
The space program, then, has a very noble purpose -one clearly outlined in the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 which in­stituted NASA as a government agency. This legislation emphasizes scientific and tech­nological developments, use of discoveries with significance to national security, interna­tional participation, coordination of the na­tion's scientific and technical resources with respect to space and wide dissemination of technical information on all of its endeavors 
for the benefit ofmankind. 
Ifthat is too much technical gobbledygook for anyone to understand, it can be stated more simply. The goal of the U.S. space pro­gram is to establish a capacity for mankind to use space to its fullest potential as a resource and as a frontier for the improvement of the human condition. 
Robert Mahoney is a senior aeronautical engineering major at Notre Dame and the editor ofthe Notre Dame Technical Review. 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------,.~--------------­
"ieVVP-_O_i_n_t~---------------------------------------T-ue_~~~-'_o_ec_e_m_b_e_r_II_,_I9_8_4___P_~_e_7 -­
'The Scarlet Letter' and Hawthorne's sexism 
It Is funny thl' way a small, even innocent, sinister, disappointed male and Arthur Dim­prurient imagination takes off as he conjures bias in The Scarlet Letter. Now we had to fig­exercise can illuminate a lar~e social injustice. mesdale iS a self-flagellating coward. up the carnal sport these women are ure out why the teacher and the class had I have in mind my dau~htcr's recent assign­However, their portrayal does not differ much supposed to have had with "the Black Man" been so reluctant to concede the probability. ment of7be Scarlet Letter as a text in her hi~ from Adam's in the Genesis story. He too was a (sic). Our mistake had been to assume that sexism school English class. I had read Hawthorne's sucker, a bit of a wimp, but the villain, never­Having ransacked the text, my daughter and can be comfortably discussed in a classroom classic while in the hospital after this theless, is the woman Eve. So while the men in I came up with all this. We thou~t we had a setting. lbis is not the case -the subject duu~ter's hirth and cried hitter tears for The Scarlet Letter are not impressive, it is still water-tight case. Hawthorne distrusted wo­carries a taboo freight and, like "socialism," it Hester Prynne from the safety of a twentieth the woman who is blamed as the diabolic in· men, especially women like Hester who is considered politically subversive. How century maternity ward. I lamcmed her cruel strument. Hester cuckolds Chillingworth and thought she could buck the system. On the much easier to make the focus of the class­seventeenth century world hut felt no guilt seduces Dimmesdale. It is she who turns the basis of his text he could be adduced an anti­room discussion seventeenth century hccausc that w•Jrld was Protestant and world topsy-turvy. In the quaint language of feminist. So, off went my teenager armed with puritanism! This is a safe area and discredited the Church Fathers, she acts as "the gateway our arguments and eager to joust, also believ­anyway by twentieth century permissiveness. Ann Pettifer to hell" for the chaps! ing that the world will not only give one a We do not pin scarlet letters on the bosoms of hearing but provide encouragement too. adulterous women and condemn them to
Sabotaging the lives of the two men is not redemption throu~ suffering!
Hester's only sin. Her independence and Her bubble was, yes, cruelly burst. She
guest column Sexism, however, is still very much with us
emotinal resilience are, it is gently insinuated, arrived home to announce, "They crucified 
and patriarchal marriage is consistently com­

unwomanly. At the end of the novel Haw­me, Ma. They did not accept my line that Haw­
Puritan, and I was Roman Catholic. I was, you mended to us as the institution which ensures
thorne opines that if a more equal arrange­thorne wrote from a sexist point ofview. They
see, cau~t up in a pre-feminist conscious­ri~t-relations and social harmony. Unlike
ment between the sexes is to be said the novel was concerned instead with
ness. I did not know that Protestant, Catholic Hawthorne, we do experience some guilt
accomplished (and he seems not to be sure Hawthorne's critique of Puritanism. The
and Jewish patriarchy are all cut from the about the sin of sexism but because Its
that it can, this side of history), the like of teacher said Hawthorne's father was a
same doth. ideological roots go so deep into our cultural
Hester Prynne, carrying all her worldly sinful Puritan."
My dau~tcr was to give a class presenta­soil we prefer, most of the time, to deny its
baggage, could never be the prophet (today
tion on tht· hook -she could select her theme. Color us all dejected for five minutes. Fol­existence. 
we would say role-model) for a new age.
She chose to ddend the position that the • lowing a feminist hunch that the teacher and On the day my dau~tt·r was to give her novel could he read as an attack, by Haw­Ukc so many nineteenth century men, class were responding out ofa twentieth <.:en­presentation, I was booked to take a driving thorne, on nineteenth century feminism. Hawthorne hc:ld the notion that women might tury anti-feminist prejudice, I decided to do a lesson. My instructor arrived lookin~ per­What, she asked, did "Mom" think ahout this participate in the redemption -the trans-little research. I phoned a professor at Notre plexed. approach? "Mom" thou~t it a splendid idea formation -of society, on condition that they Dame who I believed mi~t help and dumped "I have just had a strange experience," he and racked hl·r hrains -reaching back fifteen transcend their female na\ure. In short, if they my request in his lap. Did he have any informa­said. "A young woman with a small dau~ter yl:ars and tryin~ to remember the novel. Our stoppt'd bdng human, mortal women and tion on Hawthorne's attitude towards flagged me down, she was pretty desperate first task, if we were to get anywhere with the became instead angels, semi-divine and et-feminism? Sure, he replied, his attitude was and cold and wanted to be taken to the wo­hypotht·sis that JbeScarlet Letter represents a hereal, they might stand a chance ofinfluenc-notoriously sexist. He opposed the franchise men's shelter. Seems she could not pay her ('overt attack on the feminism of Hawthorne's ing events. As obedient, chaste, adorable for women; he was an anti-abolitionist (and rent so the landlord, who had a key to the day, was to analyze Hester Prynne's story with virgins or wives they would be allowed their remember it was feminist women, the early apartment, ca'me and took his rent payment in our heads instead of identifying, emotionally, say. Women made wise in the course of diffi-suffragettes, who were the backbone of the another way." with her vulnerability. cult and embattled lives were, in the end, of abolitionist movement). And most of all he-· This, unhappily, is how Hester Prynne's 
We startl·d oft' at a gallop and had soon gar­little account. Wisdom come by in this way loathed the "female scribblers" whose stories story gets re-told in the context of late twen­nered a bushed-load of evidence. To he sure, had limited value. It certainly was not world-were ousting his in the magazines of the day. tieth century sexism. the leading llll'n in the story are not portrayed transforming! Hawthorne, incidentally, seems So, there we had it. 'Iltese few historical sympathetically. Ro~er Chlllingworth is a also to have had a thing about witches. His nuggets confirmed the probability of a sexist A tin Pettifer is a Notre Dame alumtla. 


United States should obey World Court ruling 
Acouple of weekends ago, the World Court tion's case, which claims that Nicaragua is marks the first time in history that the World the UN Security Council or in the Organiza­in the Hagul' handed down a noteworthy deci­sponsoring guerilla attacks in El Salvador, Court has been asked to resolve a continuing tion of American States, trustworthy bodies sion affecting the United States. In a fifteen to would be hard to prove in court. conflict. Ifthe United States decides to ignore that we can control." The Rt'agan adminis­one ruling, the Court declarell that it had juris­This will most likely leave the Reagan ad­an order of the Court (which u.s. in practice tration probably would have been better dktion to decide a case brou~t by Nicaragua, ministration with a choice that it would rather cannot be enforced), it will be setting an un­served by refusing to participate in the case which charges the United States with acts of not make. Either the administration could healthy precedent. For if the world's most from the beginning. State Department aAArcssion in violation ofinternational law. ignore an order of the Court or it could aban­powerful democracy can summarily dismiss a lawyers, however, according to J'be New York 
The overwhelming vote (the American don its policy in Nicaragua. Neither option is World Court decision, other nations can be Times account, thought they had an "open 
jud~c cast the lone diSSl'nt) does not bode very appealing in the eyes of the administra­expected to do the same in the future. and shut case" on jurisdiction. Apparently it tion. '!be first would leave the United States The World Court, formally known as the In· was such a case but in Nicaragua's favor. Even open to charges of lawlessness and im­ternational Court ofJustice, is the judicial arm judges from Britain, France, Italy and West
Brian McKeon perialism. 'Ilte second, given Reagan's contin­of the United Nations. In the past, it has ruled Germany ruled against the United States on ued commitment to undermine (if not on disputes over boundaries, fishing rights, the jurisdiction question. overthrow) the Sandinista regime, seems commercial cases and the like. In addition, the Now that the United States has become in­
reflecting 
unlikely. What seems more likely is that the Court has decided in some cases involving vi· volved in this case, it should abide by any deci· 
administration will defy the order of the olent action. During the hostage crisis in Iran, sion the Court makes. To do otherwise would well for the United States. In addition, the Court, risking the short-term negative the United States did not hesitate to turn to only help to destroy a body which It helped to Unill·d States will have a difficult time winning publicity and international condemnation, the World Court for help and in praising its create, a body dedicated to serving intcrna· the case on the merits, for it will be tou~ to and then simply continue its present policy. favorable decision. This time, though, in the tiona! order and world peace. convince the jud~cs that mining of Easy, ri~t? America should not have to lis­words of White House spokesman Larry Nicara~uan harbors and supportin~ the rebels ten to the World Court if it doesn't want to, Speakes, the World Court is not a "proper Brian McKeon is a senior govert1ment covertly (which everyone knows about) are ri~t? Unfortunately, it is not quite that forum" for settling Central American conflicts major at Notre Dame and a regular View· not acts of aAArcssion. Also, the administra· simple. This lawsuit brought by Nicaragua -the translation is that "we'd rather do this in point columnist. 

P.O. Box Q 

independent, is a responsible, capable and instead chose to exploit the masses. Their the image that this projects. It appears as ~ood person. But I have to wonder-where do power base was among the feudal lords and though these students believe their motherthese conscious individuals go in such situa· tribal chiefs who in turn ran virtual serfdoms. 
Make the effort to will clean up after them. 

tlons? Arc they absorbed into the mob which To this day the Afghan tribal system is fairly consumes those who create it? prevalent, and it needs to be uprooted so that Wake up. This is not the case here, baby. We 
'Ibcsc arc questions that we asked as we Afghanistan can have a chance to grow. clean up your mess are in college now and must be responsible picked glas.' out of our carpets, our beds, our Dear Editor: for our actions. We are not better than the desks, replaced broken picture frames, There was a lot wrong with Ahmadullah's Did you ever wonder why students do not people who have to clean the library, as these 
speech. He misrepresented facts. He never actlons imply.
shivered as the Cllld air gushed throu~h the dean up after themselves? The majority ofstu­talked of the opposite regime under which he
shattered windows. And as we asked these dents who use the Library Pit do not seem to These people arc most likely the ones who questions, Our Lady remained as always, care about the mess they leave. leave their dishes or trays on the dining hall
served. He evenforgot to tell about the long dealings with the Soviets who were giving the
bri~t and gleaming over all. I was dismayed by the amount ofsoda cans, tables when they are finished eating. NotreAt1t1e Marie Finch Afghan monarchy rope long enough with 
popcorn bags, coffee cups and candy wrap­Dame students, the "cream of the crop," areFarley Hall which to hang itself. One did not hear from pers that were strewn on the tables, counters supposed to be society's future leaders, yetAhmadullah puts on a and floor. There is positively no excuse for they cannot be courteous enou~ to leave the
him the tales of tribal rivalry and torture and the decadence that does not respect human such behavior. 
lousy propoganda show 
public areas clean. freedom and is ages beh!nd in individual Don't these people understand the function ri~ts. of a garbage can, or do they want to make the Please try to change your old habits so that 
Dear Editor: 
Soviet or any other agression should be caretakers work more? Perhaps they think the others may enjoy the use of ckan facilities. 
Former Af~an Interior Minister Ahmadul­opposed in every way in the name of 
trash will spontaneously combust and subse· After all, how much effort Is required to dis· lah, at best, put on a lousy propaganda show humanity. We must be committed to preserv­quently dissolve into thin air? card what one does not want? 
when he delivered his Nov. 12 lecture. It is ing life for which courage is needed. Ahmadul­What bothers me most is that these actions Diana L. Ochoa people like him who are Af~anistan's worst lah lost his courage when he denied his Notre Dame studetJt
reflect upon the students, and I am ashamed of enemies because, for their own personal allegiance to Afghan freedom fighters and ~ains, they traded their country's integrity and escaped to start a new life in the United States ,-----------'-----"'-=----.....;.-----------------r 
betrayed the very poor but dignified Afghan as a janitor. 'Ibe least he could have done for 
VIewpoint wants to bear from you. Ifyou

pt·oplc. the good life he enjoyed at the expense of the 
bave an optnton, brllla1fl lnstgbt or

Viewpoint

Af~anistan was never brought out of its poor Afghans was to have faced the Soviet 
bumorous comment concerning anylblng

feudal existence by Ahmadullah's employer, monster. 
appearing In The Observerjustsend a let­

Kin~ Zahir Shah or the person who ousted him 
ter to P.O.Bo.x Q.


Policy
HaiderRaza

later, I>aud. It was not that these people were unaware of their country's backwardness but graduatest~~e~! •• ~.~-~.~-~-~,~-~-~.~.~----------------------------------------------------------J 

-
-----------.~----------------------------­
Tuesday, December 11, 1984 -page 8



Sports Briefs 
Fourth straight victory 

Raiders use defense to top Detroit 
Trivianightreturnsto "Speaking ofSports" tonight at 9 p.m. on WVFI-AM 64. Join host Chuck Freeby and his guest "experts," Steve King, Tom Pratt andJim Shea for your chance to win some of the best prizes in town. Just call 239-6400 to show off your trivial knowledge. -The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune. Briefs must be clearly written.-The Observer 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC, Mich. -The Los An­geles Raiders rode a ferocious defense and the passing of quarter­backs Marc Wilson and Jim Plunkett to a 24-3 National Football League victory over the Detroit Lions last night. 
The Raiders, 1 1-4 in the AFC West with their fourth straight victory, had already secured a wild-card berth in the playoffs and the defend­ing Super Bowl champions clearly intended to use this game to polish their skills for post-season competi­tion. 
Wilson completed 11-of-19 passes for 194 yards and a touch­down with two interceptions, before giving way to Plunkett, who returned to action for the first time since pulling an abdominal muscle Oct. 7. 
The Raider d<!fense, led by :Uill Pickel's three sacks, dumped Detroit quarterbacks eight times for 58 yards in losses as the Lions' record fell to 4-1 0-1. 
Wilson found tight end Todd Christensen all alone in the right corner of the end zone for a 12-yard score at 7:42 of the second quarter, Cle Montgomery returned a Lion punt 69 yards for a touchdown with 

10:44 left in the fourth quarter and Plunkett hooked up with Marcus AI-· len on a 73-yard touchdown pass 
play  with  5:28  remaining  in  the  
game.  
The  game,  blacked  out  in  the  

Detroit area, drew a crowd of 66,710 at the Silverdome. There were 4,032 no-shows. 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office, located on tht· third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classitkd advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsert•er Saint Mary's office, l<Katt:d on tht· third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day dassifit·d~ is .~ p.m. All classifit:ds must be prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge i' I 0 ct:nts pt:r five charac­



Classifieds 
ters er day. 

NOTICES 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81117 
TYPING 
Jackie Boggs 
684-8793 
"j,jiE'EorvPiNo: CALL DOLORES 
27NI045 PICKUP AND DEUVERY 
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call1-312-742-1142 ext. 7316. 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO TYPING. CALL: 287-5162. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS '85 AP­PLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE CEN­TER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. 
MARCH FOR LIFE! ND/SMC Right to Life wants you to help the unborn by par­ticipating in the MARCH FOR LIFE in Washington D.C. on Jan. 22. tnfo soon in basement of LaFortune. Thank you! 
LOST/FOUND 
STOLEN: MY BICYCLE From the back of Cavanaugh, Wed. 28th or Thurs. 29th; is an old-type crui-. red body, white rims, black seat, white hand grips; no lenders: C'mon, dude, give me a break, I live O.C. and it's my only transportation; Any Info, CALL JOE No questions asked 277-38n 
HORSE DIED-NEED MY MITTENS BACK.If anybody picked up my blue leat­her mittens at the last horne football game-Penn. State. Please return them to Kevin-3828 NOW! 
Lost : Basketball tickets at IU game. In section 5, may have been given to person in row 6. Please call Jack )239-7709 or 277-6479. Thanx. 
FOUND: PAIR OF WOMEN'S EYEGLASSES IN RED VELVET CASE OUTSIDE OF WALSH. CALL 283-1667. 
LOST-Btue Wool Blazer in South Dining Hall Tues. evening. If found please call 3615/323 lewis--Sentimental Value in­volved. 
LOST: Leather WILSON "JET" Basket­ball in the ACC on Friday, November 30, 1984, in the afternoon, in or around Gym 
2. Delinate ldentifica-tion can ba made. II found. PLEASE CALL283-4335. 0 
LOST--Btue NO backpack/bookbag at south dining hall containing two EE textbooks, one light blue NO notebook and a yellow folder and a pair of gl&sses. Name,address and ph6ne number in books and name on other items. PLEASE return books, notebook, folder and glasses!' NEED BOOKS & NOTES FOR FINALS!!! NOT interested in the return of the bookbag. Call Jodi at .xx2904. PLEASE HELP ME FIND THEM!!!!! 
LOST-BROWN GANGSTER HAT WIBLACK BAND IN ALUMNI HALL SAT. NIGHT. OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT BILL AT 1009 OR 1029. REWARD OF­FERED. 
Many thanks to the person who saved a poor, helpless Gumby from the jaws of a hungry shark during Flanner's SYR! But he should be fully recovered from the trauma by now, and Pokey has been as­king about him. What do I tell this littte or­an(J<l ~;uy? Do I tell him Gumby is gone for good? I can't. So could you please return him to section 5A? Pokey himself will thank you! 
HELPIIII LOST MY KHAKI BOOKBAG! It was last seen in the lobby of South Dining Hall at Friday lunch. You wouldn't want a freshman to fail her french final because she lost her books and notes-would you? If you know where my Calvin bookbag or its contents are please call Laurie at 2138! Please before I fail big time .. 
FOR RENT 

WANTED: Female roommate for two bedroom Turtle Creek apt. Call Beth at 277-7065 
I WANTED 
RIDE NEEDED: Need ride to Upstate New York ( Syracuse or Albany area ) can leave Wednesday Decamber 19 at noon. Call Brendan at 2275. 
Need ride to New Orleans for Christmas Break. Can leave anytime after Decem­ber 20. Call Paul COLLECT at (312)388­6458. 
Riders needed to Minneapolis on Mon. Dec. 17. Call Joan at 1580. 
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BD AN­NOUNCES THAT BUSES TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S OHARE AIRPORT WILL RUN BEFORE AND AFTER BREAK. BUSES LEAVE N.D. ON WED,DEC.19TH AT 1P.M. AND BRING YOU BACK TO SCHOOL ON MON­DAY,JAN.14TH, AT 6 P.M. FROM CHICAGO. COST IS A CHEAP $10 EACH WAY AND SIGNUPS ARE THIS WEEK AT STUDENT ACT. BD. OFFICES. 
NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO? TAKE THE STUDENT ACT. BD. BUSES TO AND FROM CHICAGO ON WED.DEC 19TH LEAVING N.D. AT 1 P.M. AND BRINGING YOU BACK TO N.D. FROM OHARE ON MON.JAN.14TH AT 6 P.M. COST IS A CHEAP $10 EACH WAY AND SIGNUPS ARE IN THE STUDENT ACT. BOARD OFFICES THIS WEEK. 
Need ride to PITTSBURGH 12/18. Call Karen 2676. EN DAD 
I NEED A RIDE TO THE BIG APPLE, If YOU CAN TAKE ME THERE, CALL ME NOW! ASK FOR JOSUE 4008 
Riders needed to O'Hara-leaving Mon. 12/17 call1539 
Need Riders to Rochester or Syracuse for Xmas Break. Call Jennifer 233-9415 
WANTED: Someone to stay with an el­derly person during Christmas break. Call 233-4670 
WANTED: used mountain bike. Call Matt­·3363 
DESPERATELY NEEDED!!! Ride lor two SMC chicks to O'Hare by noon Wed nes­day' Call Christi or K.C. at 284-5507. BE­COMING DESPONDENT! Will do anything for a ride!!! 
WANTED: Need riders to VIrginia (Charlottesville/Roanoke area). Call Tom at2551. 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE: '72Skylark Body: Poor Engine: Good $500 Of' beet offer Jell 288-2042 
Blue Jean jacket--bought last break-­never worn--need xmas $--best offer Bill 1597 
ALVAREZ 12 str. guitar. $220/best offer. 291-9739 after 6pm. 
For Sale 1968 BUICK SKYLARK CON­VERTIBLE very restoreable! Needs eng -ine work but looks clean. Best offer over $1000. Call MARK at 1787. 
Must Sell !! New Stereo Cassette Deck-­Call Jim 277-Q191 
PERSONALS 
PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234­0363. 24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY AND ARE WORTH THE WORLD 
Santa can't deliver my presents to Notre Dame so I NEED A RIDE TO NEW JER­SEY FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK. II you can give me • ride call Sareh et 1333. 
I've got a date with Santa for Christmas and I don't want to stand him up, so help me and the jolly old elf get together in St. Louis. If you can give me a ride there for Christmas break call Maureen at 1333. 
. MEN OF N.D. CALENDARS: For sale in room204 Walsh or319Farley. $6 each or 2for$10. 
HORSE DIED!!! I need myNAVY BLUE BLAZER back! It was taken from the Amtn~ana Room Friday night at the SMC formal. I have yours, you have mine. It has a Torre's Menswear label. Call Tom a1 2062 If I don't get it back in two days I will begin to eat flesh. 
For him -the personal gift. Glamour Portraits or set of Glamour Miniatures. Photography by Joe Ringer. 
0.: What's furry, loveable, cute, and (almost) 5'10"? (No, NOT a giant stuffed animal-but that was close) A.: TOM SEITZ--the 99/ perlect gentleman & friend. HAVE A GREAT HOLIDAY. TOM! love, SME 
Interested in getting involved with The Observer, as well as learning to edit? The Accent department is currently ac­cepting applications for Featurn Copy EdltOf', a paid position. If interested. con­tact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5313. 
~iNEAFEvE:fi:: NiNEAFEiiE:fi.. NtNEA 
. FEVER... NINER FEVER The Super Bowl is coming to Stanford and the NINERS will be there .... What happened to JOe Theis­mann and the 'Skins?.. 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 
WANTED: RIDE TO O'HARE ON DEC. 
18.1 NEEDTOBEATTHEAIRPORTBY 2:30PM. PLEASECALLJOHNAT 1118. 
Riders need8d to Minneapolis on Mon. Dec. 17. Call Joan at 1580. 
SPRINGSTEEN FANS:Born in the USA LIVE tape(90min).Good sound,16 songs, only$8. Call 2036 
JUNIORS Anyone interested in working on a slide show for JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND, please call Kathleen 1335. 
MARK OBERLIES: HILARIOUS! 
CHRIS RYAN-Good Luck on finals and Merry Christmas from your K.K. in Lyons. 
DEAR PW "JOE'S", YOU GUYS ARE THE GREATEST! THANKS FOR MAKING MY BIRTHDAY SO SPECIAL. LOVE VA, KATHY 
JT ARE YOU SURE YOU ARE IN THE RIGHT CALENDER? 
HOMESICK? Bake Christmas cookies at the Center for Social Concerns Thursday 3-5 PM. All invited for cookies and Was­sail. Why not?!? Merry Christmas! 
DAN ... Have a super birthday!!! Love your little sis ... Lisa!!! 
There once was a handyman Dan Who proudly said "Fix it, I can!" But without his tools, he was often a fool So he lost his PW fans We Jove you, anyway! Happy Birthday, Dan-The WOMEN of 2A 
EXPERIENCE A FANTASTIC SPRING BREAK TRIP BY GOING WITH THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD TO FT. LAUDERDALE FOR ONLY $299; WIN­TER PARK, CO. FOR ONLY $299; AND DAYTONA FOR JUST $199. ITS A GREAT DEAL AND ITS TI"\E TO START SAVING FOR THE BEST SPRING BREAK OF YOUR LIFE. BE THERE AND BE HAPPY. 
To the girl in the red sweater sitting front and center at the Chrletmae Nezz: Who are you? And more importantly, why were you looking at me like that? 
JOE HIGS, CLARE, ROSIE, CONNIE, GINA, PATTI C., TRISH D., COLLEEN O'L: JOYEUX NOEL' LOVE, MARY P. HIGS. 
DEAREST ANN, Hll HAPPY ANNIVER­SARY. CAN IT BE THAT WE'VE BEEN TOGETHER FOR THREE YEARS? I JUST WANT TO LET YOU KNOW IN A UTILE WAY HOW SPECIAL YOU ARE TO ME. WE'VE CERTAINLY BEEN THROUGH A LOT-MUCH MORE THAN ANYONE KNOWS. HOWEVER, WE'VE GROWN TOGETHER AND BECOME CLOSER THROUGH THESE DIFFI­CULT TIMES. ANNIE, I LOVE YOU DEARLY. YOU ARE TRULY A GREAT FRIEND. LOVE ALWAYS, BOB 
Why did the farmer name his pig Ink? Because he kept running out of the pen! Ha hal Ha ha hal So, am I funny or what? 
Suz. welcome back love being around you. JK 
PHYSICS FINAL With what velocity must a 5.0 kg cat be launched such that 50 percent of its hy· drogen atoms emit photons in the Balmer series? 
Pletypus Died, Need a ride to Australia 
Chickadees of 414 Lyons!!!, Surprise' Chestnuts are roasting (ouch). Good luck on finals and Merry Christmas! Love, Yodelaaheehoo! 
Lewis/Sorin Formal: Josh, give me the keys and the keg. Greg, don't be embar­rassed. The telephone table was obvi­ously broken. Bruce, my God. they took the keg! One-Two-Three-Go! Sorry Tom. (Bad start girls. Relax ...) Pat, Pat, was it fun on the ----1ng bed? Aimee and Jeanne agree: ----them if they can't take a joke. I can't sleep. I can't sleep! Shut up AI. What's second base? Mike F., next time share the covers. Buck and Gus, how 'boutthose dry biscuits? Mike C .. why was your date too tired to make her interview? Bruce, can I have the pillow, the blanket,...your shirt? Merry Christmas, Darling! Love, One North 
HORSE DIEDI NEED RIDE TO 808­
TONI 
I recently purcheeed this book end 
found the! I am • publlehed author. 
Now my quntlon le: when do I begin 
receiving my royalty checks??? I am 
meklng • plea to ell others who heve 
found that they ere eleo publlehed eut­
hora. Let ue bend together end 
demand our monetary· recognition!! 
How about it Mllrgaret? 
TO THE NOTRE DAME FIELD HOCKEY TEAM, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR EVERYTHING THIS YEAR. YOU GUYS ARE THE GREATEST!!! GOOD LUCK ON FINALS, AND HAVE A GREAT BREAK! LOVE,TOBY 
P.S. MERRY CHRISTMAS!!! 
ABOO! Here's wishing Margy Pfeil. the crew goddess,the San Diego beach bum, future pilot of America, as well as ever loyal thwit, a truly tubular 20th B'day. Re­member to always take the "smooth" path, Margy, because Ooba lives on! Luv­-Thwits, Inc. 
LAUGH IT UP, FUZZBALL! 
PROGRESSIVE MUSIC CLUB II yoo Of'­dered • PMC t-ehlrt, you must pick It up title SUNDAY from 1-2 p.m. at 341 Keenan. Allahlrts not picked up at this time will be given to the soon-to-be Heavy U.WI Club, end they will u.. them •• dlehrags. 
TO MY TYPIST (El.ZIE): KON NITI WA. YOUR TYPING ZUIBUN II DESU. DOMO ARIGATOO GOZAIMASU. ZUIBUN II TOMODATI DESU. HAVE A NICE BREAK. KURISUMASU OMEDETOO GOZAIMASU. C-LINE Nl TOMODATI NOANATA 
Desperately need ride to TEXAS for Christmas! Can leave the 18th. Shannon 284-4411 
Paula, This is your long awaited personal. I told you to expect one sometime this se­mester. However I decided not to be mean. -Me 
When the rockets go up, who cares where they come down, that's not my department, said Wilkins VonBraun. 
Attractive, blond haired, blue eyed, per­son seeks ride to Peoria, II. area Dec. 18 or 19. Call meat2066. 
FR. GUIDO SARDUCCI TWO SHOWS 7:00PM AND 9:00PM SHOWS $5.00 IN ADVANCE AND $6.00 AT THE DOOR. TICKETS ON SALE STARTING MONDAY. BUY YOUR TIX NOW FOR THE JANUARY 19TH SHOW! 
FR. GUIDO SARDUCCI TWO SHOWS ON THE 19TH OF JANUARY SHOWS AT 7:00PM AND 9:00PM TIX ON SALE MONDAY DEC 10 $5.00 IN ADVANCE AND $6.00 AT THE DOOR 
TheQuadCitln I need a ride to Galesburg or the Quad Cities for Christmas. If you have ever heard of these places, please give Bobby a call at 2467. I will be ready to leave on Wednesday afternoon, Dec. 19. Please help me spend Christmas in the 'Burg!! 
Campus Crusade for Cthulhu 
lecture Series: 
Dr. Robert Bloch, President of the Mis­
katonic University Alumni Associatiorl, to 
speak on "Ancient Tomes: Translation 
and Use." O&A session and 
Necronomicon conecting to be held after­
wards. For reservations and correct pas­
swords, call Pickman at 2755. (Feel free 
to interrupt virgin sacrifice. l 
Dogknappere (otherwise known as 'Globs of Vomit Death'), You've had your fun, (although the fur went a bit far), But now it's done. I was fooled I must admit, But if it had to be someone I'm glad that you were it!· 
Love and fondest regards. me 
p.s. I still wanr him back 
ATTRACTIVE WAGES offered lor part­time positions during Spring semester. with potential for full-time summer or per­manent employment. "Ground floor" op­portunity in a growing microcomputer software company located in downtown South Bend. Currently seeking intelligent. technically-oriented students with good communication skills to provide tele­phone consultation for users of our software package. Experience as a user or programmer of microcomputers is re-­quired. ALSO SEEKING programmers with experience in any Assembly Lan­guage or in C Language, to develop new software products for the IBM Personal Computer. Both positions require a mini­mum of 16 hours per week, preferably Monday through Friday. Send description of qualifications and availability to P.O. Box 929, Notre Dame. IN 46556. All replies will be acknowledged. 
HELLO BEERTOWN! NEED RIDE TO MILWAUKEE ON TUES 12/18 AFTER 4:30$$$CALLMIKE 1818 
RIDE THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD BUSES TO AND FROM CHICAGO FOR BREAK. COST IS ONLY $10 AND SIGNUPS ARE IN THE STU­DENT ACT. BD. OFFICES THIS WEEK. BUSES LEAVE N.D. ON WED. DEC. 19TH AT 1 P.M. AND BRING YOU BACK TO N.D. FROM CHICAGO ON MON.JAN 14TH AT 6P.M. SIGNUP NOW. 
Bulletin! 

The famed economist Roger Skurskl will appear at an autograph party for his new book American Economic Policy today at 2:45p.m. in Room 206, O'Shaughnessy Hall. Bring the kids. Arrive early to avoid the rush. Makes a great Christmas gift. 
Jill S. How were those S.Y.R.'s anyway? (punk. Holy Cross stairs, switching beds. hanging, etc., etc.) You're the best Merry Xmas, Love, K.K. in 143 H.C. P.S. Clean your sh-t up! 
Cute Backside! 

SHANNON-You party animal. The campus just can't handle you. Hope you had a happy birthday! From all your friends 
KELLY GABRIEL-Have a great Christmas! Signed, your K.K. 
What's up Doc? We found you a very pretty, high class, nice bodied, applealing, and 57" woman. You know whom to call for further info. Love Lisa I and II and Cathy. 
Rich and Andre: Hi, can you pick us up at 9:00? Hi, it's me again, can you make it 9:30? -we'll be right down! -we have to swing by LeMans parking lot to get... out of somebody's car -Guess what? We need the keys! Round we go again. -We also need ice and cups. Americana: we don't have room. -Are we having fun yet? In­spite of everything we had a wonderful time. You guys were great and thanks for putting up with the "little problems ... Dec. 7, 1984 shall go down in history! Love, Erika and Julie 
K2 does Dallas' K2 does Dallas!! K2 does Dallas!!! 
Chris "pa-rum-pa-pum-pum" Prebys does Dallas as The Little Drummer Boy. Watch lor it on Preeb's B.S. (PBS) 
Hip-Harry-Ask Mary (F.). First shaving cream, seducing strange men in boxer shorts! What will she be into next! DePauw will never be the same and nei­ther will you. love the Happy Camper M.C. 
What do you want for Christmas? Would you like to tell Santa Claus yourself? Call 283-1175 and tell Santa your Christmas list and have him tell you a Christmas story' Remember. call283-1175 to talk to Santa Claus. 
Need ride to CLEVELAND on SUNDAY. 12/16-Call Jane, 1349 
When is this test ever going to end? 

TomOf'roW'e Obaerver will be the laat one of the eemnter. The deadline for placing your Chrietmas seaeon clasal­fled Of' pereonal le 3 p.m. today. T•ke advantege of apeclel savlnge title holiday -•on.... 
:coupon .... coupon .... coupon:. 
i Holiday Special 

50¢ Off 
Send a Christmas personal to a good friend. 
Just bring in this coupon and receive 50 cents off your next classified ad order. One coupon per order (order includes total days ad is to run). Hurry! Offer expires 
I 
December 12, 1984. 

coupon .... coupon .... coupon. 

The Observer Tuesday, December 11, 1984 -page 9 


~b~~!~~~~~~~~~ 
.. -•',·~~~;.:.. 
~-, ~ ~·!:}·~· . ,r minutes from campus ! 
•, ,'•.' ,!:: ·. ~:·; ""; • I 
Brooks goes to Montreal 

Mets acquire Carter froiD Expos 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Gary Carter, an All­
Star catcher for the Montreal Expos, 
was acquired by the New York Mets 
in a five-player trade, the Mets an­
nounced last night. 
New York sent to Montreal in­
fielder Hubie Brooks, catcher Mike 
Fitzgerald, outfielder Herm Winnin­
gham and minor league pitcher 
Floyd Youmans. 
Carter, who started in seven All­Star Games in 10 full seasons with the Expos, batted .294 last season, with 27 home runs and 106 RBI's . He is believed to be the fourth­highest paid player in the majors with an annual salary of 111.8 million. 
"It's a banner day for the New York Mets," said Mets General Manager Frank Cashen in announc­ing the trade. "This isn't something that happened overnight. Everyone knows about our search for a right­handed power hitter, and they don't come much better than Gary Carter." 
Cashen and Mets' Vice President AI Harazin flew to Palm Beach, Fla., yesterday afternoon to finalize the trade, club officials said. 
"I'm thrilled. What can I say?" said 

TheNROTC CollegeProgram. $2,000ExpenseMoneyAnd ANavyOfficerCommission. 
The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two years of expense money that's worth up to S2,000 plus the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During your last two years in college the Navy pays for uniforms, NROTC textbooks, and an allowance of SIOO a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy officer, with important decision-making responsibilities. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
Stop by the ROTC building on the Notre Dame campus, or dial 239-7274/6442 and ask for LT wachtl. 
-NavyOfficers GetResponsibilityFast.__, 

Clip and save this ad for easy travel planning! Travel United Umo to l1 from Chicago's O'Hare 
LEAVE NOTRE DAME BUS SHELTER  LEAVE MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT SOUTH BEND  ARRIVE O'HARE  r  •  LEAVE O'HARE  ARRIVE MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT SOUTH BEND  ARRIVE NOTRE DAME BUS SHELTER  
420a m 6 20 am 8 20 am 10 20 am 1220p m 2 20 p m 420p m 6 20 p m 8:20pm  4 40 a.m. 6·40 a.m. 8 40a m 10·40 am 12·40 p m 240 p.m 4 40 p m 6 40 p.m. 8 40 p m  6:00am 8:00am 10·00 a m 1200p.m 2:00pm 4:00p.m 6:00pm 8:00pm 10·00 p m  8:30a.m. 10:30 a m 12:30 p m. 2:30p.m 4 30 p.m 6:30pm 8 30 p m 10:30 p.m. 12:30 am  11:50a.m. 1:50 p.m. 3:50p.m. 5:50p.m. 7"50p.m 9:50p.m. 11:50 p.m. 1.50 a.m. 3:50a.m  12:05 p m 2:05p.m. 4:05p.m. 6:05p.m. 8:05pm. 10:05 p.m. 12:05 a.m 2:05a.m 4:05a.m.  

SOUTH RENO ARHIVALS &DEPARTURES ON SOUTH BEND TIME. EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 28. 1984 
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES 
(219) 674-6993 
,........

OR CALL YOUR ...-.. 
TRAVEL AGENT 
Carter, who led the National League was named the Most Valuable Player in runs-batted-in last season. "I'm of the 1984 All-Star Game, an honor well aware of the Mets nucleus of he won for the second time. fine talent and I'm anxious to make a With Carter, the Mets now have contribution next year. You know, the first-and fourth-highest paid I've never been on a world champi­players in the majors. Outfielder onship team and I'm hopeful to get George Foster is believed to be the that chance in New York." highest paid at an estimated Sl.OS 
Carter, who will be 31 on April 8, million a year. 


Johnson 
continuedfrom page 12 
Dillon, Killeen and Rouse -must feel 
like a pawn in a chess game, used for 
whatever good it might be and 
sacrificed when the time is right. 
"Inefficient" does wonders to describe the athletic department. Where are the basketball uniforms that Lorenz approved last spring? How could a basketball team play a whole season without the required 30-second clock? Why does the fen­cing team have to wait more than a month for an answer about its pro­posed East Coast trip, only to be put offagain and again? Why did a letter from a coach to myself, written and submitted to the athletic depart­ment for perusal on November 6, not get postmarked until November 21? Why have a training room if coaches cannot have access to it for weekend practices? Why did it take two weeks to release a press state­ment about Killeen's resignation that obviously took no more than five minutes to write? And i:he list goes on. 
I could almost forgive most of the administration's actions. After all, my junior high school's athletic de­partment was almost comparable. But there is just one difference-my junior high's administration ad­mitted its weaknesses and did what it could to alleviate the problems. 
It did not try to hide problems by refusing to comment on pertinent questions, and it never asked reporters not to question students on certain matters. It was open, honest and cooperative. It cared about its students and realized to what extent its actions allectcd these students. 
In early October, an Observer stall member received a letter concern­ing a column written a few days ear­lier on just this same topic. In this letter, an administrator dared to question the author's journalis.tic in­tegrity. If this same administrator, or any others, feel the urge to question the integrity of this column, it will be welcomed -but only after they have taken the time to question their own integrity as administrators ofan athletic program provided for the students of the college. 
If the goal of the program is "to be the best in its division," as the Com­mittee on Student Affairs recom­mended in 1981, I suggest Saint Mary's either actively pursue it or accept failure and begin anew. 
The students deserve at least as much. 
********************************** 
* ~bristmas t:onctrt !
* 
* *
* ,-;....... ftaluriDg: *
* {'~' lk;l) *
* *
* *
* r~1'-enanisans 
*
* ~ :. notre Dome·s Smgmg and *
* * 
Doncmg Ensemble
* 
*
* *
* *
* When: Tuesday. December I I *
* 8:00p.m. *
* *
* * 
Where: Library Auditorium
* *
* *
* *
* Reception to Follotu *
* *
* *
* the Perfonnance *
* *
* *
* 
~e take time out fOl' 1 ~brl•t•a. *
* * 
6t•r •ruk
* * 
* *
* * 
* *
***** ************************* 

'Tis the season ... Exam Special !! Wed. 12/12 through Wed. 12/19 M,T,W,Th,: 4-10:30 p.m. Fri. & Sat.: 4-12 a.m. Sun.: 4-9:00 p.m. 
$2 off any medium or large pizza ! NO DELIVERY CHARGE 272-4935 
Delivery ONLY ·Clip and save for exam week!· 


Hicks quietly contributes to success of 5-1 Irish 
The Observer 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN low, that he could become a great Sports Writer player. "And I think he has. I think the 
While freshman sensation David Indiana game proved that. He did a Rivers has been getting most of the great job defensively." media attention over the first six "I guess I wasn't a very hard games of the 1984·85 Notre Dame worker last year," says Hicks. "But I basketball season, improved sopho­worked pretty hard this summer. I more guard has quietly contributed realized I had to work a lot harder to a great deal to the success of the 5-l improve my game. And this year I'm Irish. working a lot harder than I did last 
While averaging 15.8 points and year." four rebounds per game, Hicks has· Indeed, it was in the Indiana game helped open up the Irish inside that Hicks showed just how much he game with his outside shot and has has improved. While he was not lent his quickness to the team's known for his defense last year, he pressing and running game. played a major part in limiting 
"I really feel that Hicks is an un· Indiana's star guard Steve Alford to derrated player," said DePaul coach only four points. joey Meyer after his Blue Demons Hicks accepts the fact that he will beat the Irish on Saturday. "I think get some of the tougher defensive he's the difference on this Notre assignments for the Irish this year, Dame basketball team -and it's a and knows this means he will be very good team." facing some of the nation's top 
Hicks himself also seems guards. pleasantly surprised with the results "This year Coach Phelps wanted of the season thus far. me to take the role of defensive 
"I'm pretty satisfied with what I've guard because we're going to go up been doing as an individual," he says. against a lot ofgood second guards," "The team has been playing pretty he says. "We need somebody on the well as far as getting up and down team who can take the role of the floor. That's something that's defending them." probably the key to my offense." On the offensive end, Hicks has 
But it hasn't always been this way. teamed up with Rivers to give the In his freshman season with the Irish a quick and effective tandem at Irish, Hicks saw a great deal of guard. playing time at both the point and "Dave is a very good point guard," second guard spots, but often was in-says Hicks. "He's just always running consistent and averaged only 4.8 up and down the floor, he hits the points and 2.7 rebounds per game. open man when he's open. My game 
"Scotty always has been a great has improved because we're run· talent," says Irish coach Digger ning a lot more." Phelps. "But he wasn't a real hard "Rivers just makes (Hicks) go," 
worker last year. I told him if he says Phelps. "They complement would work harder, like Kenny Bar-each other so well, and Scotty just 
iJOHN MARSHALL ! ! LAW SCHOOL :.-''~~~/~! i 
e 1393 Peachtree {)t., N.E. Atlanta, GA 3030h ··.-..:~, • 
~ F:!~~:U!!~:.:~rEA~~?.:n; ~:~·~,i 
: Day or Evening Classes : 
~ .,.....

. . 
• John Marshall Law School admits without regard : : to national or ethnic origin •
• 

: APPROVED FOR VETERANS : 
: Graduation from John Marshall meets the : •• requirementsfor admission to the Bar •• : Examination in Georgia and Indiana ONLY : : (404)872-3593
....•.•.•...........•.....•...........•.•.•....:• 
After JOUI" lastexam, whattoughquestions will you stillbe facing? 

W don"t have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers· One·Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explbre the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact: Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. 
Vocation Director 
Box 541 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 
(21 9) 283-6385 

. .,. .. . \. •• . . . . .~ ,; .. ;. ..it 
seems to get into a groove." 
After an impressive high school career at Cathedral High School in Indianapolis, Hicks was heavily recruited by many Division I col­leges. 
"I narrowed down my choices be­cause I wanted to stay close to home," he says. "My top five schools were Purdue, Evansville, Michigan, Indiana and Notre Dame. It was close, but I chose Notre Dame mainly bacause ofthe academics and the background ofwhat Notre Dame is. 
''I'm satisfied with my choice. I had a little bit ofa hard time last year, but I'm getting along better this year because I've adjusted after a year of experience." 
Just as he is happy with his indi­vidual play, Hicks is enjoying the team's success and hopes for more in the weeks to come. 
"I'm happy with our record," he says. "A lot ofpeople probably didn't expect us to be 5-l. I think we opened some people's eyes around the country by beating Indiana, which was ranked 11th in the na­tion. 
"Our goal is to get ranked in the top 20 and get into the NCAA tourn· ament. Until then, I just hope I can play consistently and help the team improve. 
"I think we can go somewhere in the NCAA's if we get in," he con­tinues. "The last two years no one expected Virginia or North Carolina State to be there at the end. I think we can make it there, too, if we can If the Irish basketball team now become close as a team and mature, can take the cue from Hicks, hard especially with the tournament ex­work and improvement will put it perience we gained in last year's on the road toward accomplishing NIT." these lofty goals. 





Christmas Specials 
at SENIOR BAR 
*****DECEMBER 11**********:;.: 
Tuesday ~ 
, 25~ BEERS E 
* * 
* 9-close * 
* * 
******************************************t 
***********DECEMBER 12**********~
* Wednesday * 

! * NEW YEARS EVE E * 
* * 

E REHEARSAL... E 
* * 
* Streamers, confetti, * E FREE champagne at midnight !· Af.v:. 
~ 9-close 
;~************************************" 


Merry Christmas and a Happy New Yearfrom Senior Bar! 




~4(Jt~C3l~--------------------------------------T·u·e·sd--ay_,_o_e_c_e_m_b_e_r_l_l_,_l9_8_4__~-p-ag_e_l__
l 

Doonesbury 
800P51t, Lt.r'S Y&5, Hcf'$ A 5TAF<T WITH Tt/E GOOIJFRIEND GmfJ 5JUFF. I HEAR. HE!$ 8WI 
tYOt!vt BaN SPENO-Vt/?Y HaP­. /N6 A LDT OF TIM£3 RJL WITH MY : OUT AT THE PLAY· CARHR. 

/1/&l.L, /..IKE MY 
81?£4KTH/?Ctt3H 1<0£ 
REALLY? IN '~KYS a~ Her UK£ WAS 7HUW& tuffJSENT HOIAJ? M£3 UP RJR THE F1lf<T/ 
~ 
TankMcNamara 

Bl00111_!=onnty Berke Breathed 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 41 Damp DOWN 27 Ballot caster 1 Coin opening 42 Food regimen 1 Remain 28 Houston 5 Trimmed 43 Musical 2 Faradvanced athlete 10 School dance Instrument 3 Klllerwhale 29 Shut 14 GWTW locale 30 With full 
4 Paving
15 Scent 45 Fastidious force
material16 Wander 47 Squirming 5 Clergyman
17 With opposing 48 Maize 31 Midsnlpman
6 Burning crime 
alms 49 Mystery 32 Irascible
7 Hawser
writers' award 34 Saline
20 Affirmative 8 Big bird 37 Glowing pieces 21 Indian 9 Patriotic org. 
of coal 22 Musical drama 52 Appear suddenly 10 Appropriate23 Aware of 

53 Period 11 Mrs. Kennedy 
24 Nibble 56 Have a con· 12 Finished
26 Hindu Incar-38 Refrigerate
frontatlon
nation 39 Norsegod
60 Cure
29 Covenant 13 Tableland 44 Mean
61 Musical 
18 Mrs. Chaplin 45 Scribble 33 Pear 19 Vase maker aimlessly 34 Chap 23 Yen 35 MsWest 62-bellum 24 Elevate 36 Facing a 63 Unctuous 25 Signs 46 Prepares 
decision 64 Slant 26 Toward the for war 40 Chemin de -65 Broadway light stern 48 Reef material 
Garry Trudeau 
I JUST THINK 
THII<f) IT'S GREAT THE 
OH, RIGHT, !AJAYHe SUPPOI<f5
GIRL IN 
RIGHT. , /1/r»ttN IN THe
5HOIU&R. 
t 
""' ARTS. -"l4o0"'<\\'.'"'/ 

The Far Side Gary~son 


""Hold on there! I think you misunderstood-l"m AJ Tilley ... the bum."" 
49 Nymph who loved 54 Premlnger 
Narcissus or Graham 50 Three: Ger. 55 Next 51 Aim 57 Depot: abbr. 52 Protracted 58 Was victorious 53 Eat 59 Pale 
Monday's Solution 


Campus 
•12 
-1:30 p.m. -Kellogg Seminar (Brown Bag), "The Bishops' Pastoral Letter on the U.S. Eco­nomy," Rev. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C., Executive Direc­tor, Kellogg Institute, Room 131 Declo Hall. 

•12:10 
-12:55 p.m. -Art Noontalk, Barbara Bartosik in the Ancient & Medieval Gallery, Srute Museum, and Barbara Reinhart in the Walter R. Beardlsey Gallery of Twentieth Century Art, Snite Museum. 

•3:30 
p.m. -Chern. Engr. Graduate Seminar, "Radiation Heat Transfer in Porous Media and Ef­fective Conductivities of Fibrous Materials," Dah­Shyang Tsai, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•4:30 
p.m. -College of Science Lecture Series, Mathematical Lecture by Prof. Angus Macintyre, Room 226 CCMB. · 

•7 
p.m.-Mandatory Meeting, Ground Zero, Cen­ter for Social Concerns. 

•7 
& 9 p.m. -Film, "In the King of Prussia," Engi­neering Auditorium, Free. 

•8 
p.m. -Theology Dept. Liss Lecture Series, "The Place of Faith in Public Life: A Personal Per­spective," John Brademas, Former Indiana Third District Congressman & Now President of New York University, CCE Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -Christmas Concert, ND Shennanigans, Ubrary Auditorium, Reception to Follow, Free. 

•I 
0 p.m. -Advent Penance Service, Confessors Available After Service, Sacret Heart Church. 




TV Tonight 
9:00p.m. 
10:00p.m, 
11:00p.m. 
11:30p.m. 
12:00a.m. 12:30a.m. 2:00a.m. 
16  Riptide  
22  Special  -Hallmark  Hall  of Harne:  
Camllle  
28  Glitter  
34  Ascent of Man  
16  Remington Steele  
28  Paper Dolls  

34 The Constitution -That Delicate Bat­ance 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Movie-Rain 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Fall Guy/Columbo 
28 ABC News Nightllne 
28 Love Connection 
16 Late Night With David Letterman 
28 Children Running Out OfTime 
22 Nightwatch 

* ************************************* *
* * 
SAB SERVICES Committee Presents:
* *
* 
*

* * SPRING SKI EXTRAVAGANZA **
* *
* to WINTER PARK, COLORADO *
* *
* for $299.00 *
* 
*

* Informational Meeting: *
* 
* Tuesday, Dec. llth1, at 7:00p.m. * * 
*
*' in La~ortune Little Theatre. *
*

* *
* 
*

* ************************************* *
* * 
SAB Special Events & Campus Entertainment Committees Present: 
FATHER GUIDO SARDUCCI LIVE 
IN Washington Hall Saturday, Jan. 19, 7:00 & 9:00p.m. 
tickets on SALE Now!!! $5 at SAB Record Store $6 at the door ALL SEATS RESERVED 



Irish set sail for Aloha Bowl 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 

Aloha again, everybody! 
Who would have believed it? Six weeks ago, the Notre Dame foot­
ball team was 3-4, and it appeared the only island the Irish might see 
after the season would be Gilligan's Island. After all, the team was 
treated like a bunch ofcastaways by its fans and the press, its offense 
was shipwrecked, and the defense had as many holes as the S.S. Min­
now. With those facts staring them in the face, many fans wished the 
Irish skipper was on a deserted island. . 
Nevertheless, the Irish patched up a sinking ship and set sa1l on a 
course to four straight wins. Gerry Faust has steered his squad 
through LSU and Penn State, before navigating the choppy waters of 
Southern Cal in a reservoir of the Pacific Ocean known as the Los 
Angeles Coliseum. All of a sudden, Notre Dame stands at 7-4, and, 
quicker than you can say Don Ho, the I7th-ranked Irish are headed 
for Hawaii and a December 29 matchup with No. I 0 SMU in the 
Aloha Bowl. 
The Irish and the Mustangs have not met since 1958, but this se­
ries has featured some great players. In 1949, the Mustangs featured 
a dangerous backfield ofDoak Walker and Kyle Rot~. ~e Irish ~oun­
tered with the running of Emil Sitko and the rece1vmg of He1sman 
Trophy winner Leon Hart, as they escaped from deep in the heart of 
Texas with a 27-20 victory to finish their fourth consecutive unde­
feated season. The last time the two teams met, the Irish faced the 
most famous SMU grad ofall, "Dandy" Don Meredith, but came away 
with a 14-6 victory in Dallas. 
However, there's no need for either of these teams to live in the past. SMU has rebuilt its program in the past four years under Head Coach Bobby Collins into one of the nation's finest. It started with a pair of running backs in the early '80s named Eric Dickerson and Craig James, and the strong running game has continued in 1984. 
Heading the Mustang backfield is tailback Reggie Dupard, who many Southwest Conference observers feel is better than Dickerson. Dupard, a junior with blazing speed, has accumulated 1,160 yards this season while scoring 16 touchdowns. When he comes out ofthe game, SMU puts in hard-running Jeff Atkins, who has amassed 717 yards on the ground in 1984. 
SMU has more than one facet in its attack, though, as junior quar­terback Don King runs the triple option as well as any quarterback in the nation. King has completed 52.5 percent ofhis passes this season for almost 1,600 yards and eight touchdowns. The cagey junior also has shown he knows when not to throw the football by firing only six interceptions and running for 421 yards. 
On defense, SMU comes at opponents out ofthe 3-4 formation and does a good job ofstopping the running game. Nose tackle Jerry Ball leads the team with 97 tackles, and he is one ofthe main reasons that opponents average only 133 yards a game on the ground against the Mustangs. Two other reasons are T.D. Briggs and Kit Case, who anchor the inside linebacker slots. 
If you want to move the ball against SMU, the word out ofDallas is to pass. Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein has proven capable ofthat during the year, connecting on 60 percent of his passes for I,920 yards. The only problem has been interceptions as Beuerlein has completed 18 passes to opposing players. IfBeuerlein can hook up with receivers like all-America tight end Mark Bavaro and speedy wideouts MiltJackson and Tim Brown more often than he does with defensive backs, the SMU defense could see more bombs than Pearl Harbor. 
Ofcourse, that doesn't mean the Irish will not be looking for a big game from tailback Allen Pinkett. Pinkett, who has proven in the latter stages of this year that he still has as many moves as a hula dancer, will be looking to duplicate his bowl performance of 1983. In last year's Liberty Bowl, the Sterling, Va., native ran for 1I1 yards and two touchdowns in Notre Dame's victory over Boston College. 
Defensively, the Irish have been impressive in their most recent outings, especially along the front line. Defensive tackles Mike Gann and Wally Kleine, a pair ofguys who are as big as any palm tree, have made 32 tackles behind the line ofscrimmage this season, and they will certainly test an experience Mustang offensive line. The twin towers should have plenty ofhelp from a healthy corps oflineback­ers and a vastly improved defensive secondary, which has shown it is capable ofshutting down opponents. 
So, as the Irish prepare to go to Hawaii, it appears as though the surfis up along the beaches ofWaikiki. Now it's up to Faust and the team to see how well they can ride the wave. SMU will be lookingfor the Irish to wipe out, but the Irish are hoping to stay on top and ride the crest all the way in to a victory. 
Pickofthe Week. .. No pick this week, just a Christmas message. While it may seem hard to believe as you peruse the books during the next week, Christmas is only two weeks away. Before you know it, finals will be over, and Notre Dame students will make an exodus from this campus that Moses would have been proud to see. 
As you head home for the holidays, allow me to offer my hopes to you for a Merry Christmas and best wishes for a healthy and prosperous 1985. If you are driving home, remember to show some caution on the highways. Drive like a baseball player ·· get home 
safely. · 

Southern MethodistsafetyKeith Brooks( 13) will be one ofthose tested by quarterback Steve Beuer­lein who could be the main weapon for the Irish againsta Mustang defense thatis very goodagainst 


Wrestlers reach fourth place goal, but coach unhappy with showing 

ByJOE BRUNETTI feel we could beat teams of that close match, 6-5, in the third-place Sports Writer caliber," explained McCann. "But match and ended up fourth. we gave some matches away, 
"He lost his concentration. He fell They accomplished his goal, but literally. They wouldn't have made a asleep," McCann said. "His biggestNotre Dame wrestling coach Fran difference in the standings, but our problem is losing his concentration.
McCann was far from happy with his young kids have to have the attitude Hopefully, he'll learn by it."

wrestlers' fourth-place performance that you have to make the oppo­in the Muskegon Open on Saturday. nents earn it." There were some other fine per­
"I was a little disappointed," said Sophomore Greg Fleming formances by Irish wrestlers. Sopho­McCann. "We didn't go out with finished second at 1I8 pounds, but more Tom Ryan captured a enough intensity and determination. McCann was especially pleased with third-place finish in the 167-pound We were a little flat." the performance of his 134-pound division, while junior John Krug 
Although the Irish were outdis­freshman, Ron Wisniewski. beat out teammate Phil Baty for tanced in team scoring only by "Ron did a super job," said third place at I77. Baty, the Irish tournament-winner Northern Illi­McCann. "He wrestled the fourth­captain, finished fourth. nois, second-place finisher Indiana ranked 134-pounder in the nation. State, and Central Michigan, it was Last week (in the Indiana State IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame will the lack ofcompetitiveness in some Open), he lost by three touch­attempt to improve upon its lack­matches that really upset the first· downs, and this time he only lost by luster performance and raise its year Irish mentor. a safety, 9·7. He did a good job and dual-meet record to 4-0 tomorrow 
"Realistically, we achieved my didn't get intimidated." night when it takes on Valparaiso in goal offourth place because I didn't However, the freshman lost a the ACC at 7 p.m. 


Does anyone really care? 

Saint Mary's athletics -if I may be allowed to utilize these two terms in tandem -are anything but pretty of Mark B. Johnson late, and it is a shame for everyone involved that neither 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
the administration nor most of the students care enough to do anything to improve the presentsituation. 

It seems as ifthe administration-Dean ofStudents Sr. Karol Jackowski and Director of Athletics and Recrea­tion Jo-Ann Nester, in particular -docs not really care i can understand why one would consider resigning about the people involved in athletics. such a post. What sense does it make to continue at a job 
As for the administration's handling of athletic per­where one feels overworked and underpaid· especially sonnel, a revolving-door policy seems to be the rule. It ifhe or she does not even receive congratulatory com­seems a contradiction that a college claiming "that par­pensation for a job well done? ticipation in organized athletics and recreation fosters It seems that, whether intentional or not, the Saint courtesy, loyalty and positive competitiveness" must Mary's administration is making its athletic personnel change four of its seven varsity coaches within a year's feel useless and expendable. I find it hard to believe that time -especially when at least two of the former the upper echelons of the administration would do this coaches left on11ess than friendly terms. intentionally, but they have yet to show any more 
Who is kidding whom? Loyalty? Courtesy? Did the loyalty or courtesy to their athletic personnel than one administration demonstrate either of these qualities in would to a broken shoelace after it has served its pur­its handling ofthe resignations ofbasketball coach Mike pose. Rouse and tennis coach John Killeen? If it had, one or But, then again, how does the administration justify both of these talented men might still be coaching. The not even considering its assistant director of athletics fact is that no attempt was made on the administration's and recreation, Dillon, for the position ofdirector when part to retain either man. Erin Lorenz resigned this summer? And, if that was not 
In Rouse's case, there was no serious attempt to cruel enough, why not involve him in the interviewing negotiate with him on those points · maintaining the process. I ask someone to explain to me the "reasoning" recruiting budget, continuing to contract a bus driver behind this action. for away games, and allowing the team to return early How about the present situation ofvolleyball coach· from Christmas vacation to practice for the National maybe former volleyball coach -Brian Goralski. Why Catholic tournament in Iowa -which had prompted his take so long to decide the poor man's future? Are we · is resignation. As far as Killeen is concerned, there was not he -going to have to wait until next season to hear the even a feeble effort to retain the man who had groomed wisdom ofthose in high places? In any case, Goralski ·as three state championship teams and two teams that finished lOth in the country. 
see JOHNSON, page 9 





