Marines -page 5 

VOL XVIII, NO. 89 the independent ~tudcnt ncw~papcr ~n,·ing notn <lame and ~aint man ~ THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1984 

Elections spark controversy over vote-counting authority 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY Engler and John Dardis. Gleason any nmfrontation with Tucker, who 
voted against this measure. He was unavailable for comnu-nt. favored allowing any words or During (;Ieason's term as coor­Tuesday's ekction has sparked 
StaffReporter 

names which indicated the voter's dinator. the council has become controversy over who should count 
choice. incrl·asmgly involved in campus ballots for student elections. 
When the Engler-Dardis ticket politics Recently, theJudicial Coun­At last night's Judicial Council 
was approved, Tucker threatened to cil assumed control over the parietal meeting, Judicial Coordinator Bob 
not count the hallots. Gleason quick­isssuc after (;Ieason told Student Gleason told members that in the 
ly responded the Judicial Council Hody President Brian Callaghan it future he wants ballots to be 
would count them, but Tucker was thl· job of the counciL not the 
didn't carry out his threat. senate. Ombudsmen. who now do the counted by council members. not "Andy was vehemently opposed Another area in which the council 
to our votes. He took it personally," is involved is student rights. Gleason "We're on the polls, and we're the counting. 
Gleason said. said the Du Lac Review Committee ones who ought to count the ballots. 
"We used to run the elections will hold a hearing on Feb. 21 to dis­We can do it as well as they can. The 
from start to finish. It was originally cuss possible revisions of its con­Judicial Council used to count the 
our job. It might have heen true a tent. Also. the council is considering ballots until 1978. In that year the 
year ago we couldn't handle it, but publishing a booklet on student Judicial Council must have been ir­
this is a whole new council. I feel the rights. responsible and the (student body) Judicial Council is very capable," Gleason said all of these activities president gave the job to Obud." said Gleason. indicate the Judicial Council is no 
Gleason's proposal as Gleason said he wants to avoid longer the sleepinggiant on campus.
comes a response to Ombudsman Chairman Andy Tucker's remarks at last Mon­day's Student Senate meeting. Tuck­

Government agencies 
er became upset, Gleason said, when Gleason voted in favor of allowing The Alternative ticket as write-in 

exhibit job prospects 
candidates for student body presi­dent and vice-president. By P.A. CIMINO Environmental Protection Agency 
Under election rules, write-in News Staff and the Peace Corps." votes are not counted unless ap­Each agency will have a booth or proved by the senate. If the ticket Government Career Day is heing table and students can wander the clears this hurdle, the senate held today on the second floor of tloor and stop at any of the Mations. chooses the words by which stu­LaFortune Student Center from In the past some agencies have dents will indicate votes for this tick­noon until 4 p.m. brought job applications. However, et. This year marks the sixth time that Reynolds stressed the fact that the 
In Tuesday's election, only the Career and Placement Services will agencies arc not here to recruit stu­phrase The Alternative represented be sponsoring this event, and it dents hut mainly to offer informa­a valid vote for the ticket of Chapin promises to be the best ever. tion. 
There is some good news for Paul Reynolds, assistant director students who arc looking for jobs
Black market sales of Macintosh 
ofthe Career and Placement Service, with government agencies. Al­is in charge ofcoordinating the day. though there has been a hiring When it was started in 1979, "the freeze for thl· past few years, the job original intent of the day was for market looks much more promising liberal arts majors", said Reynolds. now and an incrca~e in government­However, now Goverment Career oriented jobs is expected through­
computers punishable by fine 
By TERRY BLAND that the University can continue to will not be serviced." A 12-month 
Day is open to any major and all stu­out the next year and a half.
News Staff purchase the Apple computers. Ifwe service contract may be purchased dents are welcome. Reynolds is very optimistic aboutdon't, we jepordize the system." along with the computer. 
"The day is much like a career the turnout and hopes that many stu­Black market sales of Macintosh "People cannot sell their com­"If a change of ownership is dis­fair", Reynolds said. "There will be dents will stop in just to sec what iscomputers could result in a $2,000 puters," said Ric Haley, manager of covered," says Haley, "both the representatives from 30 federal. going on. lie feels that anyone whofine according to Lisa Raliegh, repor­the campus computer store. "The people who bought and sold the state, and local agencies in the attends Government Career Dayter for Micromarket World, a na­purchaser is required to sign a legal computer are subject to litigation." 
LaFortune ballroom, the majority of will be pleasantly surprised and maytional computer publication. document called the first refusal The Macintosh computer is cur­these being federal agencies. These receive some information whichThe reduced student price for the clause. This states that the person rently selling for S 1 ,090. which in­include such notable groups as the will he helpful in the future.
Macintosh -nearly SI,OOO less cannot sell the computer for a cludes a keyboard, display screen, than the retail price -has raised the period ofone year." and a pointer box called "the possibility of black market sales. Haley added, however, that if after mouse." The retail cost is about Someone has already advertised to five years the owner wants to sell the S2,000. huy a Macintosh in the South Bend computer, he must first check to see "The Macintosh is very sophistica­Tribune, said Raliegh. if the University wants to purchase ted," says Haley, "hut it's also a 
Rick Farrell, assistant director for the unit. If the University does not simple computer to use." purchasing of Notre Dame, would want the computer. the owner can It is not known if the black market not confirm any suspected black sell it to anyone. selling is a national trend. "I haven't market buying or selling of Macin­"If you do sell the computer to found it going on anywhere else," toshes. "We are committed to reg­someone," says Haley, "the warranty 
see FINE, page 5

ulate the program," says Farrell. "so is no longer good and the computer 
Literary festival to begin Feb. 26 
By DIANNE MCBRIEN work. All lectures will start at 7:30 to The Village Voice and author of Neu•sStaff p.m. in the Memorial Library such poems as "Sirventes on a Sad auditorium except the Sunday and Q<:currence" and "Names, Dates, 
The 1984 Sophomore Literary Tuesday lectures which will be and Places." Festival opens Feb. 26, featuring six given in Washington Hall. A recep­Chaim Potok, Tuesday's speaker, acclaimed authors who will offer tion will follow each lecture, the is known for the works that 
lectures and workshops open to the location ofwhich will he announced chronicle his Orthodox Jewish public. at the lecture. background. A former national 
The annual weeklong celebration The festival opens Sunday night director of the Leaders Training Fel­ofliterature will also honor winners with poet Ntazake Shange ofthe Uni­lowship, he has received acclaim for of the student writing contest versity of Houston, best known for the novelsMy Name i's Asher Leu,In sJX)nsored by the festival commit­her collection For Colored Girls the Beginning, and The Book of tee. Who Have Considered Suicide. She Light. 

is also the author ofCypress and In­Speaking on Wednesday will be An unidentified student looks over the offerings of this year's Each night a different author will digo. award-winning poet and Notre Sophomore Literary Festiz•al at a display in the library> concourse. present a lecture that will include a Monday night will feature Joel Eventsfor the u•eeklong event are listed in story at left. 
see SLI<', page 5 

reading and discussion of his or her Oppenheimer, regular contributor 

The Observer Thursday, February 16, 1984 -page 2 
New Scholastic editor could Inean 
In Brief 

an attempt at investigative work 
Invitations have gone out to all Democratic 
Gtndidatt.•s to attend Notre Dame's quadrennial mock convention scheduled for Stepan Center April 4-7. Students will represent all 50 statt.·s and American possessions in the speechmaking and voting for a candidate representing the party out ofpower. Two major politica t figures have confirmed plans to attend the event, both of them fathas of Notre Dame students. They are Charles Manatt, lkmonatic party chairman, and Romano Mazzoli, congressman from Kentucky. Mazzoli also will be speaking tomorrow at noon in room l 0 l of the Law School in a lecture sponsored t by The White Center. -The Observer 
Dr. Pit-Mann Wong, associate professor of mathe­matics at Notre Dame, has been selected as an Alfred P. Sloan lk~t.·arch Fellow. lie is the fifth Sloan Fellow in the University math tkpartmt:nt. Wong is one of approximately 20 mathematicians who rn:dvt.·d the basic research fellowships offered each year. lkcipients are selected for their potential to make creative contrihu­tions to their field of scientific study, receiving 525,000 to support their rest.·arch over a two-year period. Wong has been a full-time litnllty nwmba at Notre Dame since 19H I, and has also held teach­ing position~ at Tulane llniversity and Rice University. -The Ob­
sen,er 
The senior class ski trip to Boyne Mountain has 
hn·n cancdled because of poor ski n>nditions. Tricia Romano, st.·nior class president, said yesterday that a meeting will be held at 4 
p.m. tomorrow in the LaFortune Little Theatre to pass out refunds and to dbn1ss alternative plans for this weekend. -The Obserl'er 
Carroll Hall won $100 worth of pizza from 
from (iodfather's Tuesday night hy having .:B percent of the dorm turn out li>r the women's basketball game against Detroit. The ath­ktil' departmt.·nt sponsored the contt.·st. -Tht• Observer 
At the Faculty Senate meeting Tuesday 
night. a proposal that the undergraduate final exams be weighted for not lcs~ than 20 percent and not more than 50 percent of the final gratk. suhjn:t to the professor's discretion, was passed. The senate also moved to support and encourage participation in the Early <:hildhood Development Centt.·r. Chairman Mario Borelli com­mentt.·d that the Center provides a useful resource for both the Uni­vt·rsity and the parents. -The Obsen,er 
Of Interest 
john Sears, former Reagan presidential 
;unpaign managn in 1976 and 19HO, will speak on "Nominating l'rcsitknts -1980's Styk" at the Memorial Library Auditorium ~_atunlay at 5:50p.m. Sears, a 1960 Notre Dame graduate,_currently work~ out ofa Washington, D.C., law firm. His address, sponsored by the Mock ComTntion, is expectnl to reveal many ofthe hehind-the­~n·ne~ intricacies of national politkal campaigns. -The Obsen1er 
The Center for Social Concemsis now dis­
tributing intimnation on educational and occupational opportunities in the area of peace to each hall. A file ofthis informa­tion is posted on each hall's social (.'oncerns bulletin board. Off­campus students may obtain a tile of this information at the ( >mbudsman inli>rmation desk on the first floor of LaFortune. -The ( JIJserr•er 
Weather · 
Increasing cloudiness is scheduled for today. with mild temperatures reaching tht· 60~. There is a 60 percent d1ann· of rain this afternoon and IOnight, with a low in the 50s. 
The ( Jhserr •er 
Today'!-! i!'!~Ul' wa!'l pruducc:d hy:
The Observer 
'Ou: Observer ( l ~PS ~'.l'.l 2--HHlll) i' Produdion Con.;u/lanl ....... Stt'vt• FoMer puhll!'tlll"d Munday throu)th Fritlay and f),•si;,:ll J:'dilor..... ................. ( :hris Bowkr on homt• foothall Saturday!'~, t·xccpt Ot·.~l;,:n .-tssi."lant ......... MaurtTn Murphy during t'XiJnl .tmJ \'il<.'<Hion pc:riod~. l'he l.amul.\taff. ............................................ Us" Observer j, puhli!'thnl hy tlu· !'ltudcntsol Tl'{II'S<'II<'I'S .................... Carol and Ted the: t·nivt·r~il~ uf Notrt." ~>ame and Saint .\'t'll'.'> l:'dilor ....................... Amy Stc:phan Mary'!'~ ( .ollt'J,(t'. SuhM.:ription~ may ht• CupJ• t"tlilor ........................... Ed Konrady purdu~t·d for S2'; pt:r yc.·ar (SIc;, pt·r .\jJorts (.'opJ• Fdilor ............. Motrc Ramirc:z !'ll'lllt'~tt·r) hy \\Tiling The Observer, Vit•u'{Juinl l.ayut41 .. ........... Tom and Mary 
P.( ). Box Q, Notn·l>amt·. Indiana -t(l';';h. N/J 1Ja1• Editor. . .. Melinda Moore 
·rhc Ohserver Is a ntt"ntht."r ofThe As­.\MC /Ja)' l:'tlitor. ......... Mag~:it: O'Connell 
so<..·iated Press. All n·production riRhts Ad Desi;.:n . ................................... Paul Slota 
art· n:~t·n•t•d PbfJ/(!grapber... ........ Bill, Paul. and Carol 
When the general board of Scholastic elects a new 
editor-in-chief later this month, it probably will break a 
four-year-old tradition. Mostly likely, the new editor 
will not be a member of the People of Praise, a charis­
matic group which was founded at Notre Dame. 
More important than a switch in philosophy (People of Praise is a conservative group which among other things believes in biblical support for an all-male priest­hood), the change could usher in a new era of inves­tigative journalism on campus. 
People of Praise, while a genuinely Christian fellowship, is a relatively timid organization which above all does not want to rock Notre Dame's leaky boat -and that's too had, because Saint Mary's and Notre Dame have more than a few skeletons in their closets. 
A fundamental premise has been missing from Scholastic for the past four years: Notre Dame is not a sacrosanct institution of higher learning, but a group of sinful individuals who need 


a prod to keep them from readers with well-thought 
making too many mistakes. out investigative pieces 
Scholastic has strived which could blow the lid off toward making Notre Dame Father Hesburgh's "New a more knowledgeable Jerusalem." campus. Recent years have But beyond the altruistic produced issues dedicated want to provide the campus to ROTC on campus, the with the best possible news Catholic character of Notre coverage, there is an ulterior Dame and the meaning of motive for wantingScholas­liberal education. tic to become an inves-
The issue to be released tigative magazine this week will feature a competition. recap of the football season, Ask any newspaperman in an S8,000 effort that few will the country about competi­read and fewer will remem­tion between newspapers ber past next week. and he or she will tell you 
The only real inves­that a newspaper without tigative piece was one done direct news competition is 
about The Obsen1er last fall, a good example ofwhat the Scholastic can do. A decent overview, the article nonetheless tailed to reveal any new specific information. 
But why should Scholastic, a predominatly literary and feature magazine, devote itself to muckraking? Is not The Obsen,er supposed to chase down the dirt and air the University's dirty laundry? 
Yes and no. 
Committed to getting the facts straight and finding out the whole story, The Observer should track down every lead to find out what is going on behind the scenes, whether that scene be tenure, University invest­ments, ROTC on campus, or Department of Defense contracts. 
But The Obserwr also has a problem -it is a daily newspaper which acts as a mouthpiece for every or­ganization on campus. As a daily record ofwhat's going on at Saint Mary's and at Notre Dame, The Obsen1er of­ten gets hogged down in publicizing campus events and 


Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Thursday 

covering lectures in which very few persons are in­
terested. And that's where Scholastic should come in. As a monthly magazine, Scholastic has the oppor­
tunity to put much more time into coverage oftedious and complicated subjects. Rarely do Obsen1er articles exceed the equivalent of two double-spaced typewrit­ten pages. 
Scholastic, however, has both the layout ( 32 pages per month) and financial capabilities (a budget ofmore than SSO,OOO) to provide 
more lazy than a newspaper competing against another paper. 
When a competitor shows up a newspapn by print­ing a story first, one can het that paper will be less wil­ling to let a story lie on the back burner the next time. 
If The Observer had true competition, a number of campus issues would have been uncovered sooner. The An Tostal financial fiasco, changes in faculty health in­surance benefits, University investments and problems with the new telephone system all could have uscd more extensive and more thorough coverage, the sort of thing thatScholastic has the resources to do. 
Many people at Scholastic have said they want to complement The Obsen,er hy providing feature stories and overviews which this newspaper is not designed to do. 
But it seems that at Notre Dame, the best comple­ment would be to compete directly in the investigative news arena. 
The views expressecl in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial hoard or staff: 
lfs happening here! Right, next to Ft. Lauderdale with six miles of white sandy beach, a boardwalk, lower hotel rates and great places to eat and party. Plus, we're the home of Six Flags Atlantis, World's largest Water Theme Park! 
Send today for your tree 
color poster of..TheRivals" and also a tree copy of our hotel guide. Why not 
···· spend Spring Break In Hollywood for a change... Irs where rivals revel! 
Fill out the coupon below and mall to: 
rl~=r-:o;~~;:m-;e;-,1
ofCommerce.P.O Box 2345
1Hollywood, Florida 33022  1  
I Name  I  
I Scnool Name  I  
I Addre II City  I II  
I state/Zip  I  

L------._--~ 


The Observer Thursday, February 16, 1984 -page 3 
Futuristic essays win student $2000 in Honeywell contest 
By ALAN PARKIN 
News Staff 
When Allen Gates picked up a copy of Time magazine last winter, he was expecting no more than a brush-up on currein events, but an ad in that magazine has helped him become $2,000 richer. 
It was, however, more difficult than entering a sweepstakes. Gates had to write three two-page essays for a contest sponsored by the Honeywell Corporation. His essays, along with those of nine other stu­dents, were chosen as the best among 750 entries submitted by stu­dents from 282 different colleges across the nation. 
Gates, a senior in the Arts and Letters-Engineering combined five­year program, decided to enter the contest after seeing an article advertising it in Time magazine. "It looked interesting. Also, I like to write and this looked like a good op­portunity to express myself." 
The contestants had to choose two out ofsix topics and write about the technological advances in these areas they feel will be made by the year 2008. The six topics were com­puters, aerospace, biomedical tech­nology, electronic comm t unications marine systems, and energy. 
In addition, each contestant had to write an essay about the impact this technology will have on society. 


An out of print book you cannot locate Try oursearch service! nationally circulated initial cost: $.75 no obligation 500Jo success rate eight weeks, 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

1027 E. Wayne noon-6, Tues .-Sun 232-8444 
PRICES GOOD THRU FEB.18,1984 
We accept student Check with N.D.ID 
Gates' first essay dealt with biomedical technology. In it, Gates states he sees scientists attempting to extract chemical substances, use­ful in medicine, from plants and animals. They represent a large, un­tapped resource which science knows about, says Gates. 
Also, he believes cellular resear­chers will determine how to prevent aging and how to regenerate cells which contain the original genetic information. With a new knowledge of genetics, Gates envisions scien­tists producing sturdier, higher­yielding plants. 
Gates also .wrote about new diagnostic computers giving better and more accurate diagnoses in 


.... 
Political Buffs and Glenn Supporters·· 
STUDENT BLITZ FOR GLENN! 
Excellent opportunity to take part in an all ex­penses paid student campaign in Davenport, Dubuque, and Burlington, Ia. on weekend before key Iowa caucus. Organized through Chicago Glenn for President headquarters by Tom Joyce, chairman of Jimmy Carter's successful New York state campaign in 1980. Chartered bus will leave Main Circle on Friday, Feb. 17 at 5pm and return Saturday night. We need 40 people minimum per bus, so sign up now to guarantee seating. Call AI at 277-0911 for more info. Go Glenn! 
Allen Gates 
. 

neuropathology; increased use of lasers and fiber optics in surgery; and an almost total elimination of blindness. 
His second essay deals with com­puters. By 2008, Gates sees a world with a sixth · generation of com­puters, using artificial intelligence, with the ability to rewrite their own programs to meet the demands of different situations. This means they will virtually control themselves. Also, they will have the ability to utilize logic in their thinking process. 
Gates feels, however, that the most important breakthrough will concern a language for computers which will be common to all na­tions . 
Computers, in the form of a com­mand control center, will he found in virtually every home, rt:gulating temperature, humidity, etc., accord­ing to Gates. 
With this explosion of technol­ogy, he believes serious moral and ethical questions will be raised: Who will decide which people will receive age-suppressing hormones? When each generation b to die and allow others to continue? Will man be able to control all his new mac­hinery? 
Gates believes we must step back and look at the possible implications of these and other technological ad­vances before we begin producing the equipment. Only in this way can we save our planet from problems caused by too much technology. 
He collected most of his informa­tion from studies and outside reading. "The most diflkult part was incorpl'rating it into a plausible prediction," said Gates. 
Plausibility was one of the criterion by which the essays were judged. 
"WE BEAT ALL ADVERTISED PRICES" JUST BRING IN THEIR AD. 
PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH BEND AVE STORE ONLY 

BEER 

LIQUOR
THROW 

LP Budweiser 7.29 Apple Barrel
YOUR 

Schnapps
Stroh 4.99
750ml LP 
6.99
OWN 

Hiram Walker Pabst Light 
PINACOLADA 6.29 Peppermint
LP 

Bud Light Schnapps
48 7oz. 1.0L

PARTY 9.29 4.99 USING §E~cial Export 8.39 Kings Cellar Vodka 
1.75L

Rose's Michelobor 7.99 
Pina Colada Mich Light Heavan Hill 
24Bottles 
8.99

Mix 25oz. 99¢ Rum 
8.99
1.75L

and 
QUARTS 100° Southern Heavan Hill Comfort
Pabst Blue 5.99
750ml

Rum 
8.99 
Ribbon 

7.99 Kahlua 8.79
case quarts 750ml

You can make 60 6oz. Drinks for $12.95 plustax Lite 8.79
case quarts 
ice not included 

Budweiser 
hall BBL 
29.99
Michelob 
hall BBL 
36.99 
Old 

Lite 

21.99 Milwaukee 
.. ~.... ---"'-"''.."L. ............. _~-~-.. -·....··-. -...... "" ........ ~....... ·· ....... ·......•..•• •••• -.-·.-'I' ... -..­
!~ .t .I 

The Observer Thursday, February 16, 1984 -page 4 
CSC plans series on Latin America 

APPhoto 
On the sea again ... 
The World War II battleship Iowa is being refurbished around the clock in preparation for its role as a replacementfor the ship Neu•jers(:Y offthe Beruit coast. 


--gQowe~ fp!t oQQ occogLong ,, 
Come in and Browse 
327 Lincolnway· 232-3354 
VAN LINES Runs this weel6end -FrL~ Sat. -movies, shopping, dining\-Uriiv~sity Park Mall and Town & Country. 50¢ Round trip. Pay as you board atND Circle, Grotto, SMC Holy Cross Circle Hourly departures begin at 5:00 on friday and 
4:00 on Sat. 
Fr. Bruce Ritter 
of Covenant House I Under 21 Crisis Intervention Centers in New York City, Toronto, Houston, and Guatemala 
Will be speaking on: 
"Life On the Streets: Our Forgotten Children" 
Sunday, February 19 Library Auditorium 4:00 and 
"Child Prostitution, Organized Crime and the Law" 
Monday, February 20 NO Law School Rm. 101 12 noon Sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission and the Law School Social Justice Forum 
Special to The Observer 
"Crisis and Thunder in the Americas" is the theme for a series of events starting tomorrow and continuing until Feb. 22 at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns. 
The events, jointly sponsored by the Center and the Helen Kellogg In­stitute for International Studies, are designed to increase the awareness offaculty, students and the public of the crisis in Central and South America. 
Tomorrow at 4 p.m. there will be a panel discussion of the recent Kis­singer Commission report on Central America. Panelists include Father]. Bryan Hehir, secretary for social development and world· peace at the United States Catholic Conference; Carlos Diaz-Alejandro, professor ofeconomics at Columbia University and a member of the Kis­singer commission; and Peter Bell, 

former  president  of  the  Inter- 
American  Foundation,  a  
congressionally-founded  Latin  
America aid program.  

On Friday at 7 p.m., a film entitled "Target Nicaragua: Inside the Covert War" will be shown. 
On Monday at 7 p.m., there will be a panel discussion entitled "Central Ameria in Crisis." Panelists include Father Claude Pommerleau, educa­tion coordinator; Edclberto Torres­Rivas and Michael Conroy, faculty fellows of the Kellogg Institute. 
On Feb. 21 at 7 p.m., the BBC television documentary, "Nicaragua" will be presented. It will be followed by a panel discus­sion with Michael Conroy, Alexan­der Wilde and Scott Mainwarin, all faculty fellows at the Kellogg In­stitute. 
On Feb. 22 at 7:30 p.m., Father Philip Devlin, director of a Jesuit­sponsored educational project for poor people in Lima, Peru, will give a lecture entitled "Peru Update." 
All of these events will take place in the auditorium of Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns. The events are free ofcharge and open to 
the public.  
Student groups  involved  in  the  
events  include  the  Student  Or­ 
ganization  for  Latin  America,  the  

Graduate Latin American Students' Association and the Community of 
the International Lay Apostolate. 



CORKTOWNE 
I

LIQUORS, INC. 
1841 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
STATE ROAD 23 

'~ MILE WEST OF MARTIN· UPERM RKfT 

LIQUOR 
Fleischmann
WINE 
BEER 
Vodka 7.77
~.&RAsti 7.77 
1.751.

Michelob 7.99
Andre Castillo

Mich Light 8.99
£~ampagne2 for $5 
Rum 9.99 
1.751.

Bud Light 7.99
Gallo Table Seagram 7 2tor $20

Goebels 4.99
Reunite E&J Brandy 5.88 
750ml
Lambrusco 2 $5
'"""' for 
White Mist Gin 7.99 


1.751. 
Jack

Win A Spring Break Kegs and Quarts 
Daniels 7.69 
750ml

Trip to Florida
in Stock 


In fact, we'll even pay you more than $575 a month while you attend. That's in addition to paying for your full tuition and required books and fees. It's all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. How does it work? If you're selected for a Physician Scholarship-from the Army, Navy, or Air Force-you're commissioned as an officer in the Reserve. 
While you're in school, you'll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and years of scholarship assistance received. 
As an Armed Forces physician you'll receive officer's pay and benefits, and enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. You'll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology. 
But most important, while you're in medical school we'll help pay the bills. For more information, send in the coupon. There's no obligation whatsoever. 
rve~mi~te~ei~or~ma~bo~rm~rc~lth, 
I 
Professions Scholarship. I understand there is no obligation. 9003 Mail this coupon to: 
I 

Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box C 1776, Huntington Station, NY 11746 
Check up to three: 0 ARMY 0 NAVY 0 AIR FORCEI Please Print All Information Clearly and Completely: I 
Name --------------------0Male 0 Female
I Address __________________ Apt. -----I 
City ___________ Stale _______Zip 1._-'11...-JI...-JI...-JL--1
I Phone I I I II I
I I IL-11,..._I....L........LI__,I Soc. Sec. No . .__I...L..-L--JI rnI 
Area Code Number

I College I 
DateoiGradualion rnrnField of Study------------­
Month Year he inlormalion you voluntarily provide will be used lor recruitinjl_l)urposes only. The more complete it is. 
e.beMe""•cal).raSpond to yWt. (Au •u 1 Jlftllfil) 
----------.I 



The Observer Thursday, February 16, 1984 -page 5 
reportedly worth about $24 million 
:!lmnle llnlt 


Marine move overdue says Dowty 
By EDWARD NOLAN 
News Staff 
The recent United States move to get the Marines out ofLebanon by the middle of March is long overdue, according to Alan Dowty, Notre Dame professor of government and international relations. 
Dowty said the Marines "had little influence where they were, ... so as I see it they should go where it is safer." 
Last week's decision by Presi-.W 
dent Reagan to move the Marines offshore was met with questions as to his motives. Some believe Reagan wanted to regain the popularity poll points he had lost because of this issue. Dowty said that "in a government like ours decisions are made in response to public opinion, and that's what Reagan did." 
The public clearly opposed the 
Alan Dowty 
Marines' presence in Lebanon, "while congressional objections were growing. Reagan would have had quite a fight on his hands and the marginal cost of the Marine's weak position did not constitute such a battle." 
Dowty said he detected no en­thusiasm for a broader involve­
ment ot the Marines in Beirut. The involvement "was determined a long while ago, ... when the number of troops to send over was decided and again when the United States decided not to respond to the killing of the Marines." The pullout was called for, Dowty believes, be­cause the Marines were not influencing the situation in Beirut, and Reagan wanted to cut United States losses. 
"The whole mission seemed doomed from the beginning be­cause no one understood what was actually going on in Lebanon," Dowty said. "It was wrong for the United States to assume that the Syrians would just up and leave if we asked them to." 
Dowty elaborated by saying the Syrians have long-term plans for the captured area, and do not plan on evacuating. 
Fine 
continuedfrom page I 
says Raliegh, "but nobody knows for sure." Raliegh said that she talked to a person at Harvard but that there was no confirmation as to whether people were selling on the black market there. 
The University of Michigan is branding an upper case M on the Macintosh comuters sold there in an effort to control black market sales. 
Farrell believes that people have exaggerated the issue of students buying and selling the new com­puters on the black market. "We have ethical and moral people in the University," says Farrell. "People do more harm than good trying to make a big issue out ofthis." 
Notre Dame is one of 24 univer­sities making up a consortium with Apple. Otherschools selling the new Macintosh at a reduced price are Harvard, Yale, Michigan and Northwestern. The agreement be­tween the schools and Apple is 



that tg . . . . . eastbank~ 
("umr ~l·r II'> at thr . . . u ....... Domo * 
Easl Bank Emporium Building ~ 
; 

c 
' 
i 

Dine among the antiques and enjoy:our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 121 South Niles South Bend 

:: 
219·232·8488 


A Browser's Paradise of Unique Gifts 
Handcrafted ltzms Decorative Accessories Artwork Toys Games Something for Everyone Brass Crystal 
Pewter Dolls Nearly one tilird of our gifts are especially made 
for us by outstanding artists and craftsmen from every state. 

dollars. 
The Macintosh is a 32 byte CPU "state-of-the-art" computer. A store in the_basement of LaFortune is now selling the Macintosh and other Apple computers. Ric Haley, the store manager, says he has already received orders from about 100 stu­dents for the new Macintosh com­puter. 
"When the first group ofstudents pick up their computers at the Stepan Chemistry Building," says Haley, "there will be a short seminar in which .students will be shown how to run the computer." 
SLF 
continued from page I 
Dame graduate John Engels, whose works include "The Homer Mitchell Place", " Blood Mountain", and "Vivaldi in Early Fall." 
Novelist Mary Howard will lecture on Thursday. Her novel Father Me, Father Me Not was well received by critics who describe her as a "brilliant new novelist." 
Friday, Leon Forrest will be featured. Described as a "graduate of the Ralph Ellison school of black writers", Forrest will read from and discuss his work "A Tree More An· cient Than Eden." 
Each author will lead a workshop 
in the Library Lounge at noon of the 
day following his or her lecture. All 
workshops are free and open to the 
public. In addition, some authors 
will visit classes where they will take 
part in discussions. 
Saturday night will feature the 
winners of the student writing com· 
petition reading their own works in 
the library auditorium at 7:30. 
Saturday night will feature the winners of the student writing com­petition reading their own works in the library auditorium at 7:30. 
Chairman Heather O'Shea and her 
committee are attempting to in­
volve the campus more closely with 
this year's event. In past years, 
receptions following lectures were 
held off-campus; this year, several of 
the dorms will host parties. 
O'Shea suggested the relaxed and 
unstructured style of the activities 
may encourage student participa­
tion and enthusiasm. "Hopefully, it's 
going to be more campus-wide, 
more festive ... We want to make 
the whole week something special." 
College Night Thursday, February 16 3 p.m. to 9 p.m. Precision Haircut & Style-Only $7.50 Terrific campus cuts at super savings with 
student I.D. Free gifts & refreshments. 
ReGISS·ffAIRSTYUSTS 
University Park Mall 272-1168 
ALL LATEST DIRECT SALES COMICS 

also hard to find back issues AVAILABLE THURSDAY AT 
6:00P.M. 
234-1038 
~JU~rJJ~Jall 
STORE 1346 E. MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND. 234-1038 
IN-KNITY 

EMBROIDERED ON "V" NECKS, JACKETS, CARDIGANS, VESTS, AND POLO SHIRTS. 
C SEND FREE BROCHURE Name_________________________ 
Address,__~---------­City___________ 
State ZiP'-------"7,"""" 
lnn kntt'f Sportswear ~ 

2129 S Bof'llarden Lane Tempe AZ 85282 
The 0 bserver Thursday, February 16, 1984 -page 6 

Thursday, February 16, 1984 -page 7
View~oint 
We don't have to trust the Soviets 
Editor's note: This is the first in a series of articles on the logic ofa nucleararmsfreeze. 
Many people think we cannot trust the Soviet Union. It. is widely believed that the Soviets, with their ability to suppress free in-
George Crowell 
Guest columnist 

quiry and to operate in secrecy, could cheat easily on any agreement to limit nuclear weapons. 
The United States, by contrast, is an open book. The Soviets would cheat readily while the United States could not get away with cheating at all. TI1is view, with many varia­tions, is widely held, but it is seriously mis­taken. 
The United States possesses a remarkable array of equipment which enables it to monitor Soviet nuclear weapon systems with a high degree of confidence. The tact is that the Soviet Union could not cheat in any sig­nificant way without being caught. 
U.S. satellites constantly cross Soviet ter­ritory providing highly detailed photographs offeatures on the surface below. The Septem­ber 1983 National Geographic reports that "they can reveal Soviet license plate numbers, and even ·distinguish uniformed personnel from civilians." The United States has surveil­lance cameras that are "a million times more sensitive to light than the human eye." 
But U.S. surveillance . capabilities are not limited to the clear dayiight that photography requires. _Other satellites carry highly sensitive infrared detectors that can follow the hot exhausts of missiles and aircrafts in flight. 
More remarkably, they can penetrate dark­ness to produce detailed pictures ofSoviet ac­tivities on the surface or even underground. Satellite-based radar systems penetrate the cloud cover and fog as well as darkness. Com­plex cameras known as multispectral scan­ners have the capacity to reveal even camouflaged objects. 
In addition to its satellites the United States has radar and radio receiving equipment located on the ground, on aircraft, on ships at sea and even in submarines. They constantly monitor Soviet military actions and com­munications. These are recorded, analyzed, and ifnecessary, decoded by teams ofexperts. The most advanced and powerful computer systems as~ist in each ofthese tasks. 
With this astounding array of detection equipment, each type supplementing and supporting the others, the United States misses very little that the Soviet Union does with its nuclear weapons. Not every move can be detected But that is not necessary. The principle of "adequate verification" was ac­cepted by Nixon and Brezhnev in 1973. 
Such a principle makes sense because, as has long been recognized, each new nuclear weapon offers at least ten opportunities for detection. Each weapon has three com­ponents: a warhead, a launcher(such as a sub­marine orsilo), and a delivery vehicle (such as a missile). 
Each component goes through three stages: testing, production and deployment. Three check points for each of the three com­ponents gives nine opportunities for detec­tion. Count as one the mining and processing of nuclear weapons grade material, and there are 10. Detection at only one point is enough for adequate verification. 
Existing nuclear arms control treaties have created difficulties for verification because they have allowed limited numbers of some weapons to be deployed, but not others. A freeze, allowing no new weapons, would greatly simplifY verification. 

It is far easier to tell from satellite photos that a weapons factory is completely shut down than it is to distinguish whether its ac­tivity is permissable or not. 
Former U.S. Secretary of Defense Harold Brown said, "Our national technical means enable us to monitor all key aspects ofSoviet strategic programs ...despite the closed nature ofSoviet society." 
If a freeze is to be workable, it is not only our side's distrust of the Soviet Union which must be recognized, but also Soviet distrust of the United States. Since the US S R. has its own "national technical means" for detecting the nuclear weapon systems, this condition ap­pears to be adequately met. 
George Crowell is an associate professor in Religious Studies at the University of Wi1ulsor (Ontario). Tomorrow: Deference is 
notDefense. 
Looking at war from an arm's length 
Recently, in The Obseroer and other publications, writers have paraded their ideological views ofhow necessary arms con­trol treaties are to achieving world peace. While most of these essays have been well written, almost all have been too idealistic. 
EdKonrady 
Guest columnist 

To create a practical foreign arms policy. 
one must accept the basic inconsistancies of 
the I Jnited States and the USSR, and the 
reasons behind starting wars. 
The Soviet Union is an aggressive nation that truly believes it will rule the world some­day. The United States is a defensive nation that wishes to keep a peaceable status quo. As ultra-patriotic orself-serving as this may seem, current economics and recent history defend the point. 
Many of the essays seem to imply that the existance of arms cause wars, rather than political tensions. War results from unsolved political dissentions. Nations enter wars only when they think they can profit from them. There always will be conflicts between na­tions. The key to avoiding war is not to avoid all conflicts, but to take the profit out ofwar. 
Sjnce the instigator of an overwhelming number ofskirm~hes is the Soviet Union, the ~nited States must find a way to take the profit out ofthe Soviet's expansionist program. 
The Soviet Union's strength is its armed forces. The entire communist bloc economy is a shambles, however, and their technology is still behind Western countries. Because the Soviet Union's weaknesses are the United States' relative strengths, we can and should use the carrot and.stick principle. a form of deten'te with deterrance. ·_ 
Agood example ofthis will be comingsoon. When and if the Soviets perceive that Reagan has a fairly good chance of being re-elected, they will ask for a stimmit. ,{ president in the middle of a campaign is easier to deal w_ith then after receiving a new manrurte from the_public. 
When the Soviets ask for the Sllmmit, th€re must 00 a deal between'.our· acceptance and the Russian influence in Central America. For example, the first 5oviet-American summit in Moscow in 1972 occurred only after the Ber­lin settlement. This accomplished three things. First, the United States held a favorable bargaining edge over the lSSR during the settlement. second. negotiators got a feeling of how much they could push either side. Third, it allowed the summit to. be ~uccessful before it even started. 
An upcoming danger in the coming months will be Reagan's possible tendenc)r. to form a 
p • 0. BoxQ 

Endorsements? 
.. 

Dear Editor, 
Please excuse my ignorance, my journalism is not really what it should be, but allow me to ask one simple question: Is it fuir for The Ob­serz,er to endorse one candidate over another in the student body presidential race? 
This may seem like a silly question to anyone who ha.~ read page seven ofthe Feb. 13 issut·. Obviously our independent newspaper feels obliged to take a stance and support a candidate, (especially if the ticket favms allowing this publication to remain "independent") but why? 
Tbe Obserz>er_ is not a big city news publica­tion. Its sales do not depend upon the quality of its news reporting and editorial opinions. Accordingly, the circulation numbers of the paper here on campus do not reflect true patrons, thanks to that silly "collection agency" under the dome. 
Due to the unique financing of your publication, I do not think The Observer should take such stands in student politics. A candidate ha.~ no control over patronizing tile paper, the same paper that may provide bad press for this ticket or excessive praise to its opponents. 
Daniel]. Rectenwald 
treaty no matter what, in order to combat the democratic blasts at not working at achieving diplomatic peace. A treaty that may or may not be favorable to the United States, but is unenforceable, is useless. 
It is obvious that the USSR will never allow on-site inspections, and because of the ad· vances of military technology and the use of multiple warheads, we cannot inspect by air surveillance. Therefore, the United States must come up with a treaty that would be in the best interests of the Soviets to keep. 
By combining economic benefits with arms control agreements, and not allowing our su­perior technology to get away from us, the United States can form an effective arms con­trol agreement. But any agreement must in­clude regular summits, because with every summit we have, communication is strengthened and the Soviets will stay under control in order to avoid losing "the carrot." 

Editor's note: Ed Konrady is a senior from Crown Point, Ind. majoring in American studies andpsychology. 


Editorial Board DepartmentManagers 
Editor-in-Cbief............................... David Dziedzic 

P. 0. BoxQ, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen 
The ObserrJer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tile l'ni· ExecutiveEditor.................................Paul McGinn Controller...................... ....................Alex Szilva.-; versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neces.'iarily reflect NewsEditor.................................Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager.........................jeanie Poole the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­News Editor....................................MarkWorscheh Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto curately and as objectively as possible. l'nsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa SaintMary's Editor..................Aline Monastyrski !l)•stems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters, amittte1nside'(:01A:amn present SportsEditor .................................Michael Sullivan the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community. Viewpoint Editor................................Keith Picher 
Founded November 3, 1966 
and the free expression ofvarying opinionson campus. through letters. is encouraged Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor..........................................Scott Bower 
Sports Briefs 
WSND AM-FM is looking to fillthe position of 

Sports Director. Anyone interested in running for this position should submit a letter indicating interest to Will Hare or Chris Brence by midnight tonight at the WSND studios in the tower of O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
Cheerleaders wishing to try out for the 1984-SS squad must attend a meeting on February 27 at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. The captain of next year's team will be Bill Thallemer. Call him at 233­4331 for more details. -The Obsen,er 
An interhall swimming meet is scheduled for February 28. Hall representatives must turn in a list of entries to Dennis Stark the day before the meet or the interhall office, C2, ACC. For more information on the ten-event meet, call swimming coach Stark at 239-6222. -The Obsen1er 
The Fellowship ofChristian Athletes is 

sponsoring an evening with Mr. Van Crouch tonight at 7:30 in the Howard Hall social space. Mr. Crouch is a well-known motivational sports speaker in the Chicago area. All are welcome. -TheObserver 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club will hold a spring or­ganizational meeting tonight, Thursday, Feb. 16, at 6:30p.m. in room 204 ofO'Shag. All must attend, but particularly those planning to compete in New Orleans. The complete sailing schedule will be discussed. Dues will not be collected at the meeting. -The Ob­
server 
The ND/SMC Gymnastics Club will have a 

meet against Purdue this Saturday, Feb. 18, at 1 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Obsen1er 
Thursday, February 16, 1984 -page 8 
Thebeau 
continued from page 12 

him to improve." come back to Division I," says he says. "We had some easier competition Thebeau. "When next year comes 
Before looking too far into thethis year on the club level, and it around we'U be ready to play -no future, however, Thebeau must firsthelped to make our record look bet­matter who we play." 

look to next year as an importantter," says the right defenseman It is this optimistic attitude that 

member of the Notre Dame hockey

regarding this year's schedule. "But has helped Bob Thebeau find several team."We're losing a lot of goodwe did play some good teams like St. good friends at Notre Dame. "Most seniors," he says. "We'll need goodThomas and Michigan-Dearborn. of my closest friends arc on the freshmen to fill in. We'll probablyWe could have played some better hockey team," he says. "I spend so struggle a little hit at first, hut we teams and still have a good record." much time with them, and we do so should do fairly well becauseThere's a good possibility that much together. I have a lot of good everyone's got a good attitude aboutNotre Dame will be playing some friends here at Notre Dame." 
it."

good teams next year with a prob­Thebeau has big plans for his able move back up to Division I future after graduation. "I plan to status. "I was hoping we would play overseas-maybe in Sweden," 
HPC All-Stars 
FOOTBALL Alumni ... Gary Purk Badin ... Sally Esposto 
Breen-Phillips . . .  Patty  Talamo,  
Lucy Sullivan  
Carroll...  Bob  Putnam,  Jack  
Zaremba  

Cavanaugh ... Bob Weber, Frank Byrne Dillon ... Bob Wicke, George Mar­get Farley ... Sharon Koehler, Jennie Wirthman Flanner ... Norm Coleman, Jack Seiler Howard ... Joseph Bilik, Tim Kot­tak Keenan . . . Jim Henry, Mike Marinkovich Lewis . . . Rosie O'Brien, Jancen Olds Lyons . . . Jeanne Luther, EUen Banovetz 

Classifieds 
Morrissey . . . Dan Elder, Rich Toomey Off-Campus . . . Kerry Mannion, Tom Morrissy Pangborn ... Karl Hillerman, Tom Halpin Pasquerilla East ... Jennifer Yuh!, Nancy Fitzpatrick Pasquerilla West ... Marsha Auls, Cathy Flick St. Edward's ...John Quinlan, Tom Comer Sorin ... Randy Jefferies, Mike Con­lin Stanford ... Ken Cotter, Chris Soha Walsh ... Michelle Sebo Zahm ... Tom Taylor, Joe Simmons 
SOCCER Alumni ... Dave Markert Carroll . . . "Chloe" Whelan, Don Moran Cavanaugh ... John Hand, Bruce Chesley 
Dillon . . . Mike Pecararo, Terry Regan Fisher ... Eric Scheuermann, Jim Gillies Flanner . . . John Novatny, John Keefe Howard ... David Cooke, Matthew Buckley ; Keenan ... Pat Millin, Fred Hoey Morrissey ... Dave Schrauth, John Verfurth ' Off-Campus . Larry Beckerle, Kerry Mannion Pangborn . . . John Drew, Steve Goodreau St. Edward's . . . Chris Padgett, Patrice Pasture! Sorin ... Doug Meeker, Tom Gib­bons Stanford . . Kirk Kimler, Steve Theobald Zahm . . . Toe Thesing, Noble Levesque 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­ters per day. 
NOTICES 

COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE 277-6045 WILL PICK UP & DELIVER 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT· HERS I Surf's up but our pricea aren't. From jullt $109.00 -spend 7 lun-ftlled daya In sunny Florld.o. Call lor you,..lf or orv-oniZ8 a small group and travel FREEl Great lor club8, tool Call LUV TOURS (800) 368-2006, aak for An­
nette. 
TDK SA 90 & MAXELL XL 2 Tapes $2.50 each, Dan Meakin 2n·3306 
Full time & Summer job8 for atudenta apeclallzlng In Banking & MariUitlng. Commlaslon only salea repreaentlltlve calling on banka & preaentlng our computer aervlce. MMG Corp. Florian L Belea 1-800-582.0429. 
THERE IS A POSITION OPEN FOR THOSE WISHING TO BE CHIEF EN­GINEER OF WSND. SEND YOUR AP­PLICATIONS TO LOUIS FUKAAT X1531 BEFORE MIDNIGHT THURSDAY, 16 FEB. TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE AND MANAGEMENT SKILLS A MUST 
WOADPAOCESSING · Fast accurate work. Aevtstons & spelling correcttons. Ph. 272·8827 
ILOST/FOUND I 
LOST: BLACK CONCORD WATCH WITH BLACK LEATHER STRAP, GOLD HANDS AND BLACK FACE. LOST FEB. 1 BETWEEN EMIL REVIEW AND PW. CALL MAGGIE 2964. 
LOST IN ALUMNI KODAK CAMERA CALL SMC4302 
LOST:TAN DOWN WINTER COAT WITH HOOD AT SENIOR BAR.I NEED IT!! IF FOUND,PLEASE CALL ED 277-6295 REWARD 
FOUND IN THE STUDENT LOT BY STADIUM: EYEGLASSES IN BLUE CASE CALL 1 796 
LOST:A SINGLE ROOM KEY. BETWEEN STEPAN CENTER AND. ZAHM IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DAVE.1178 
FOUND: EYEGLASSES Along Jun1per Rd. near C·21ot. Call287-9766 evemngs. 
lost patr of women's wtne colored leather gloves. SMC campus or Ca mpus v1ew apts. area. If found, please call277·4734. Thank-you. 
Lost: my patience with Santor Nurstng Theory. Is it too late to change my mator?????????????????????Toolles Daddys. 
LOST: TWO CASES OF SANITY! IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO SHARONA AND KATH IN 843 P.E.­THANKS! end ad 
CAP'N CRUNCH LOVES PATII SEA· GIN! 
LOST. TAN. UNIV.-OF-TEXAS PULLOVER WINDBREAKER TIME 
10:30. SUN. FEB 12...BADIN T.V LOUNGE ACTUALLY. I BELIEVE THIS JACKET WAS STOLEN. PLEASE PROVE ME WRONG AND RETURN MY JACKET A. SAP IT HAS MY NAME IN IL.J.J.LIU PH8330 
LOST: Tl55 II IN CUSHING PLEASE 
CALL BILL 1224. 
FOUND: CALCULATOR in 356 Fitzpatrick Wed. Feb 8. Can now identify and cla1m at lost and found. 
Lost~One men's N_O. class ring with blue stone and 1n111als JMU 1nS1de. 1n area of huddle probably. $20 reward. Jim at 1572. 
LOSTLOSTLOSTLOSTLOST--­CAMOFLAGE HAT-­LOSTLOSTLOSTLOSTLOSTLOSTLOST Have you seen a rather shapeless camollage hat hanging around, suspi­Ciously out ot place? It seems to have wanted to find rtsell and ten rts owner. If you have sponed lhts rebel. contact Carole at 7875, for she will be extremely grateful. (This hat has a great amount of sent1menta value...bes1des--rts the kind 
wrth pull-down ear flaps, and rt can't be found anymore). You wtll have done your Chnstian duty and made th1s girl very jubilant. That's all. 
LOST: Silver Class Ring with Red Stone. Call Bea VS' 844 9 
LOST red paperback -JUSTICE: Al­ternative blahblah ... by Stl!fba, ed .... call 
Jesse at 234-7033 
FOUND. Silver Cross pen behind 
O'Shaughnessy before Chnstmas break. 
Call Karen 3887 to Identify inttiats. 
LOST: AJOE C. SEAL BEACH FAMOUS HISTORY FACT BOOK LAST SEEN IN P E LAST SEMESTER VERY IMPOR­TANT Ill CALL JOE 3360 $5.00 REWARD LOST: blue and grey NIKE runmng Jacket in Saga(LeMans stele) or Haggar 2/14. Need desperately! Please call4231. 
LOST: GOLD WRISTWATCH IN SOUTH DINING HALL LAST WEEK. IF FOUND, CALL CHRIS AT 6153. 
.................l..................... . 
AVAILABLE NOW· Efficiency apartment near Notre Dame on busline. 255~8505. 
FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3604/288-0955. 
ONE ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES PAID 2n-3604/288-0955 ENAAD 
Houses for '84-'85 -Furnished. 1 mi. from campus 4-6 bdrm, 2 baths. CALL 277­3461 
WANTED 
Riders wanted to MILWAUKEE. Leave 2/17, return 2/19. Share usual. Call Jeannie at 234-0302. 
Need ride to GRAND RAPIDS on Feb. 17. Will share expenses. Call Bill 1629 
Need R1ders: West 1-80 to Iowa Crty. Fn­2/27. Call JoAnn 5043 (SMC). 
FOR SALE 
Want to know what's really go1ng on in the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER, the only newspaper of the U.S. Church. For sub­scription information and a free sample copy, call Paul at2n-4851. 
FOR SALE: PIONEER TURNTABLE AND A DELCO CAR RADIO BEST OF­FER CALL 8046 
TICKETS 
Need 2 stu. tix for the Marquette game. Call1388 
HAVE CASH -NEED MAAQUETIE TICKETS CALL MATI x1228 
NEED MARQUETIE TIX Mike or Keith 1180 
MARQUETTE TlX? I need two student tickets to the Marquette game. Please call 11388 
HELP MEl! I need MU TIX Will pay$$$ lor them Call 8440 
NEED 4 MARQUETIE TtX STUDENT OR GA CALLJOHN 6718 
NEED AT LEAST 6 GAS FOR MAR· QUETIE. CALL CATHY 6773. 
SAVE A LIFE I!I My father will KILL me if I don't come up with MarqlBtte tickets for him and his visiting lriends. He's VERY popular, but also very wealthy, so money is no problem. Call Jamie al 8704. Thanx. 
Sis at MU. Need tix to see NO win aga1n. Call Kathy 1284. 
I NEED 5 TICKETS FOR THE MAR­QUETIE GAME. CALL MATI, 1208 
$$$ Need 3 MARQUETIE ticketsI Call Laura x8130 $$$ 
$$$$ NEED TWO TIX FOR THE MAR· QUETIE GAME BIG BUCKS CALL SHERYL 284-4389$$$$$ 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 
THE "KISSY KAr' IS 22 TODAYIII 
WE WISH YOU THE HAPPIEST 
BIRTHDAY EVER. 
WITH LOVE, 
THE MUMMY MOMMY, JAIL'EM JACK, 
NONIE, MARY TAFFY WOO, BOONIE, 
TIMOTHY LIMOTHY, MICHAEL 
BONES, MISTY HARBOR, RICKY 
KNAPP. 
DEAR CARLA 4 WEEKS TO GO HOPE FRANCE WAS GREAT LOVE YOU JOHN 
-'1 
Cassie: You never lose s1ght of the tact that 'just be1ng· is fun. Keep up the good work!! Love always, One of Your Bills And good luck with my car, God knows you'll need it 

EXCELLENT BILLY JOEL AND CHRISTIE BRINKLEY COLOR PHOTOS FROM CONCERT. SHOT FROM FIRST ROW. CALL BOBAT3314 
ORIOLES FEVER. .. catch ill!! 

TO OUR FAVORITE KAT? WHAT ONE 
MAN CAN DO WITH RUFFLES AND 
RYE BREAD IS BEYOND EVEN OUR 
IMAGINATION! HAPPY 22ND CHRISI 
LOVE THE ONLY UNDERLINGS WHO 
ARE BETTER THAN THEIR BOSS. 
SHIRL&MO. 

John Tyler At the Nazz Sat. Night 9pm ENAD 
II you missed the Beaux Arts Ball, see The KINETICS at Nickies this Saturday. 11 pm. 
No, a Mary's Di-Hard is not lound in the dictionary. A Mary's D1-Hard IS found 1n the blue seats at the ACC! 
Laura: Thanks for the tape recorder. have almost all the evidence I need to expose Domegate. 
ND/SMC SOPHOMORE SKI TRIP March 2,3,4 --$85 w/rental--$60 w/o Meeting for those already signed up AND for anyone else Interested in going Thursday (tonight) at 8 pm in Lafortune Bring $25 deposit Any questions, call Rick Ruehlmann at 8840 
ATIENTIONIIAND HERE WE GO AGAIN-DO YOU HAVE A PARJY, SYR OR FORMAL THAT YOU NEED THE MUSIC SUPPLIED FOR??? THEN CALL WSND-FOR ONE LOW PRICE YOU TOO CAN HAVE A PROFES. SIONAL OJ, ENGINEER, AND ALL THE MUSIC YOU CAN HANDLEIII CALL REGINALD DANIEL AT 239-7425 OR 2113-1153. THE DATES ARE FILLING UP QUICK SO CALL TODAYIIIIII WSND PARTY REMOTES-THE BEST EQUIPMENT, THE BEST PRODUC· TION AT THE BEST PRICEIll 
OMAHA, NE (CREIGTON U.) ANYONE?? Ride or riders needed to Omaha ffor the weekend of Feb. 24 -26. Will share usual. Call Jeanne at 3484. 
International Students: t.S.O. tubing, sledding and winter games Place:Bendix Woods Park Date:Sat 2/18 Time:6.30pm If you want to come, s1gn up at the I.S.O. lounge, Mon thru Thurs Bpm-1 Opm 
... J.w.._.J.....-........... Happy almost Birthday, Lucy, from sunny (70) OKLAHOMAI 
NEED RIDE TOt U, LEAVING FRIDAY 
WILL PAY USUAL CALL TONY x1054. 
SOPHOMORE CLASS SHIATSIIIII $10 FROM DORM REP GET YOURS NOW I!!! 
THE LAWS OF MR.GOODWENCHLAW 3 (The BP) There are 6.023E23 lbs. of lemale per BP floor. MR. GOODWENCH p1cks Keenan to w1n the BP challenge (During aerobics, BP ROCKS NO) 
Suzanne D. HTH I LOVE YOU AND WISH I WAS IN YOUR ARMS I YOUR GREEN BEAN 
ATIENTION NORTHEASTERNERS: INTERESTED IN LIVING ON THE N.J. SHORE THIS SUMMER? CALL PAT 8762 
BP-KEENAN AEROBICS CONTEST. TONITE-7:00. BE THERE 
FIT & TRIM BEAUTIFUL PEOPLE--BP! 
CHRIS HAPPY 16TH BIRTHDAY I'Ll TAKE YOU OUT FOR SOME DRIVING LESSONS WHEN I GET HOME FOR SPRING BREAK. YOUR BIG BROTHER JOHN 
RIDERS NEEDED TO ILLINOIS ST. FEB 17-19: CALL TONY AT 1397 
MIKE: Thanks tons for the flowerl It made my day I Love, MP p.s. COCONVTIII 
Hear The Phone Bone Show on WSND, AM 64 from 1:00 to 3:00 today. 
MARYBETH who?? And whose closet did you h1de in??? 
M & M. Thanks for Feb. 3. It was a BALLI Love PMB& PMB 
Mike You've got a friend. Love, Pam P.S. Thanks tor the llower and Where's the beet? 
ATIN My father from West Virginta just bought his first pair of shoes in hopes of attending the NO-marquette game. Please help me so he won't be d1sap· pointed. NEED 1 GACALLJANET(SMC) 284-5531 
Congratulations HUNDMAN, BURKE, AND GILLIG I Thanks for everything ...get psyched for that super soph year! love, HELLER 
AL 1\bo~i Frtd~~ ~;~t;i: sure Ill do it 
aga1n...anyt1me-but not wlth YOUI And 
get a clue, REAL men don't dnve yellow 
novas! Mary 
..........................:.-.u.~ .... 
NO BEER BONGS MADE TO ORDER 
SMC5485 WANTED WANTED WANTED 

The Observer Thursday, February 16, 1984 -page 9 
~-.o--..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..;:r..r..r..r..r..r..rJO""..r..r...oo-J"'J"J.Y".r..rJ"J.Y"1 
§Attention: Juniors ~ Junior Parents' Weekend  §I  
~  REGISTRATION  ~  
§§§  Thursday:  6:30pm-1 0:30pm  §§§ 
§  Friday:  9:00am-8pm  §  
~  Saturday:  9:00am-Noon  §§  
~ ~I  at Lafortune  8 ~ ~  
§  Please bring J.D.  § 
John P. Sears 


l-..,............................................_,...,.._,...,.._,._,._,...............;:r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r.r..r..r..rJ"..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..rl 

AnTostal 
Organizational Meeting 
Sunday, February 19 Library Auditorium 7:15pm 

~/ ,?/~·. 
~ 
fir 
~~~~~~rr-----­
Don~t show up unless you~re crazy! 

,.. 
A Reminder that the Deadline for Nominating a Senior Student for the 
Distinguished Student Award 
lS 
Friday, February 17 

Created and presented by the Notre Dame Alumni Association, the award recipient will be selected base~ on service to Notre Dame, community involvement and good academic standing. 
:Ji 
Nomination forms are available in· 
the Student Government Office in 
'1[:• 
LaFortune, the Center for Social Concerns or the Alumni Office 
·-···'-' 
(201 Admin. Bldg.) 
Former Reagan Campaign Manager speaks on 
Nominating A President 1980's Style Library Aud. Saturday, February 18 3:30pm 
Sponsored by the Mock Convention 


If There's Leadership In You OCS Can Bring It Out 
OCS (Army Officer Candidate School) is a 14 week challenge to all that's in you ...the mental, the physical, the spirit that ore port of what makes a leader. If OCS were easy, it couldn't do the job It wouldn't bring out the leader in you, or help you discover what you hove inside But when you finish and graduate as a commisioned officer in the Army, you'll know. You'll know you hove what it tokes to lead. And you'll ~Jrim, alert, fit, and ready to exercise the leadership skills that civilian com­ponies look for. If you're about to get your degree and you wont to de­velop your leadership ability, toke the OCS Challenge. Call your local Army Recruiter, and ask about OCS. 
Sgt. Jones 234-4187 Call Collect 
Army. Be All You Can Be. 

r----------------------------~
Enjoy Barclay's Znd Annual 
PRIME RIB 
FEAST 
For a limited time you 
can enjoy our stan­
SAVES2 
dard cut of succulent 

prime rib, a bottom­tureen of soup, bread and your 
of baked potato, tJome fries or rice mason. 
OUR REGULAR MENU IS ALSO AVAILABLE 
Limit two dinners per coupon May not be used with other coupons or advertised specials Offer expires 3/10/84 Not Valid on Sot. 
Offer good 5pm-10pm Sun.-Fri. only Does not Include tax or tip 
52885 U.S. 31 Nortll South Bend Ph. 272-5478 

L----------------------------J 
Loss. 
continued from page 12 
the game, and it was out ofreach for the Irish. 
High-point man for the Panthers was Billy Culbertson, who scored 18 points. Clyde Vaughan had 16 points and eight rebounds, while Keith Armstrong scored 13. 
High for the Irish was Sluby, with 18 points. Price was second with 13 points, all of which came in the second half Price missed his first shot of the second half, and then went on to hit six in a row before missing again. 
Two Irish players set personal records for their performances in the game. In 31 minutes, Jim Dolan tied his personal-best 13 rebounds, and joe Howard dished off a career­high 12 assists in just 32 minutes of play. 
Ironically, Notre Dame wa,s im­pressive in both shooting percent­age (55 percent for the game, 66 percent in the second half) and rebounding (a 32-21 margin) in the disappointing loss. 
The statistic which may explain the Irish defeat is the number oftur­novers. Notre Dame gave the ball away 20 times in the game, while Pitt lost possession only 11 times. 
"The turnovers killed us," Phelps said. "You can't play against a team like this and have 20 turnovers. That's the story ofthe game: the tur­novers." 
Panther coach Roy Chipman added his appraisal ofthe game. 
"I thought that the whole key to the game was defense early in the game,"Chipman said. "We played exceptionally well and made it very difficult for them to get the shots they wanted." 
"I think because of the defense 
and some easy baskets as a result of 
turnovers, we sort oftook the crowd 
out ofthe game," the Pitt coach said. 
"Everybody knows that is a big fac­
tor out here." 
The Irish, now 15-9, will be in Provo, Utah on Saturday to take on Brigham Young. Phelps says his team has a lot of"adjusting" to do before that game. 
"All we've done all year long is make adjustments," he says. 
The first major adjustment, according to Phelps, came when the team was 3-3 at the start of the season. At that point, Dan Duff got the team in what Phelps calls "a good groove." 
Now, the Irish are playing without 
the benefit of starting guard ]o]o 
Buchanan and starting center Tim 
Kempton. Both are out for the 
remainder of the season with in­
juries. In addition, starter Jim Dolan 
is being plagued by a foot problem, 
which is causing him a lot oftrouble. 
Hopefully, Notre Dame will be 
able to overcome these new 
hardships and perhaps earn an in­
vitation to the NIT. 
Wednesday's Results Pittsburgh 67, Notre Dame 59 Pittsburgh (67) 

M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Vaughan  40  7-10  2-4  8  2  16  
Williams  27  1-4  2-3  4  2  4  
Armstrong  34  4-8  5-6  1  2  13  
Allen  25  3-5  3-4  1  1  9  
Culbertson  40  6-9  6-7  2  4  18  
Shepherd  10-0  0-0000  
Aiken  14  0-2  0-3  0  2  0  
David  10-0  0-0000  
Watkins  18  3-3  1-4  4  1  7  
200 24-41  19-31  20  14  67  
FG  Pet.  .585.  FT  Pet.  -613.  Team  

rebounds -1. Turnovers -11. Assists -13 (Culbertson 5). Technicals-none. Notre Dame (59) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Dolan 31 2-3 0-0,13 5 4 Royal 14 2-2 0-1 2 2 4 Barlow 30 4-6 1-1 3 3 9 Howard 32 2-6 0-1 2 4 4 Sluby 36 9-17 0-0 1 3 18 Hicks 20 3-7 1-2 6 2 7 Bowen 50-00-0000 Price 19 6-8 1-2 2 4 13 Rucker 13 0-2 0-0 2 4 0 
200 28-51 3-7 31 27 59 

FG Pet. .549. FT Pet. -429. Team rebounds -1. Turnovers -20. Assists -18 (Howard 12). Technicals-none. 
Halftime-Pittsburgh 29, Notre Dame 18. Officials -Dave Pollock, Ed Batogowski, Bob Covert (All ECAC). A-11,243. 
• I 

Thursday, February 16, 1984 -page 10
The Observer 
Men's, women's swimming 
Irish set for championship meet 

NBA Standings 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
Ifyou thought you had to wait un­til the Olympic games opened in Los Angeles this summer for exciting swimming competition, guess again. Tht: Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams will travel to the University of Evansvilk to par­ticipatt: in important conference championship met:ts this weekt:nd. 
Starting this afternoon, tht: men's squad will compt:te in the Midwes­tt:rn City Conference Championship Meet .The met:t is a new addition to tht: Irish scheduk and tht: team wants to claim tht· first place trophy its first yt:ar in the met:t. "Somt: of our swimmt:rs art: gt:aring up for this mt:t:t and we want to win it," said Irish co-captain Dan Flynn. 
During tht: thrt:t: day mt:ct, tht: Irish will swim against squads from Butler University, the University of Evansville, Xavit:r University, Loyola 
(Chicago), and Saint Louis Univt:r­sity. "It's going to be a long and drawn out met:t and I've nt:ver par­ticipatt:d in anything like it," said Flynn. 
Earlkr this st:ason. the Irish ddeatt:d Xavier llnivt:rsity in tht: Notre Dame Relays and the tt:am t:x­pt:cts a rt:pt·at pt:rformanct: against Xavier this wet:kt:nd. But sinct: this is Notre Dame's first yt·ar in tht: 
meet, tht: Irish have no reading on the other teams. 
"We don't know what to expect from this meet," said Flynn. "But we know it's not as strong as the Mid­west Invitational and the bulk of the team is shooting for the Midwest." 
The Irish have compiled an im­pressive 7-3 dual meet record and several swimmers are tappering their times to prepare for this weekend. Tht: Irish expect to see many of their vett:ran swimmers ac­heive personal bests for the season. 
"This meet will be different for different people," said senior co­captain AI Harding. "We expt:ct to gt:t experience and a strong showing from those swimmers who are tappering." 
"This met:t will give us a chance to swim evt:nts we didn't swim in all year," said Flynn. "We do want to do well, but we're pointing toward the Midwest ln\'itational." 
While the men's tt:am is swim­ming in the Midwestern City Con­captain Raili Tikka. "We'd love to say we won the Conference Champion­ship in our first year." 
The Irish women will face teams from Butler University, the Univer­sity of Evansville, Xavier University, Valparaiso University and Saint Louis University. Although the Irish have never met these squads before in competition, tl'!-e team is confident it will do well. "I'm sure we'll be com­petitive, or else we wouldn't be in it," explainedTikka. 
Last week, the Irish completed the regular season with a 6-5 record af­ter defeating Depauw, 73-55. ~st swimmers earned their best times of the season which should give them confidence going into this weekend's meet. "If the progress continues, the team can enjoy more success at the Conference," said Notre Dame head coach Dennis Stark. 

Eastern Conference  Western Conference  
Atlantic Dlvlalon  Midwest Division  
W  L  Pet.  GB  w  L  Pet.  GB  
~ston Philadelphia New York  39 32 31  12 19 19  .765 .627 620  Utah 7 Dallas 7.5 T San Antonoo  32 28 24  19 25 30  .627 .528 444  5 9.5  
New Jersey Washington  26 27 24 26 Central Dlvlalon  491 .462  14 15.5  KansasCrty Denver Houston  21 20 20  30 32 32  .412 .385 .385  11 12.5 12.5  
Milwaukee  30  23  .566  Pacific Dlvlalon  
Detroit  26  22  .560  .5  Los Angeles  33  17  .660  
Atlanta  28  25  .528  2  Portland  32  21  604  2.5  
Chicago Cleveland  21 20  28 31  .429 .392  7 9  Seattle PhoeniX  27 23  23 29  .540 .442  6 11  
Indiana  14  36  .280  14.5  Golden State  23  30  .434  11.5  
San Diego  17  35  .327  17  
Yesterday's Rasutts  
San Antonio 114, New Jersey 1 08  
Cleveland 104. Phoenix 90  
Molwaukee 107,1ndiana 91  
Dallas 119, Philadelphoa 116. 2 OT  
Seattle 116, Washington 99  


ference Championship, the womt:n's squad will be competing in the Northstar Conference Cham­

BLACK CULTURAL
pionship Meet. The women's meet will bt: held simultaneously during the men's meet, and like tht: men's tt:am, this is the first year the Notrt: Dame women's team has par­

ARTS FESTJVAL 
ticipated in the meet. "Wt:'rt: shooting to win and do our bt:st," said Notre Damt: co-


Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee, Fr. LAUDERDALE the renowned acting team of 7 nights at Sheraton Yankee Trader Broadway and Hollywood will be Round trip Motor Coach $90 
speaking and reading selected 
Total Package Plus many more activities and excursions! 

works on February 16, 7 p.m.
For more info, call NDSU at 239-7757 

at the Library Auditorium. 
-~Informational Meeting ~-0 LaFortune Little Theatre ~ Thurs., Feb. 16 6pm
..._, 
Put your degree 
to work 
where it can do 
a world of good. 
Your first job aftPr graduation 
should offpr morP than just a 
paychPck. 
If you'rP graduating this yPar. 
look into a uniquP oppor­
tunity to put your dPgreP to 
work wht>rP it can do a world 
of good. Look into thP PPaCP 
( orps. 
See Peace Corps film TONIGHT AT 7 p.m. in 123 Niewland Science Hall 

Cheese 
4.29 5..24 6.19 
Add'tl 
1 Toppings .50 . 75 1.QQ We will make your pizz::J to your liking wlth 
any or all of the follow1ng additional .toppings: 
Extra cheese, Italian sausaqe, Pepperoni, Ham. 
Sweet peppers, Mushrooms. Onions. Green Olives, Black Olives. 
SANDWICHES 
SERVED ON AN BINCH ROLL WITH SWEET PEPPERS, 
PEPPEROCIN.I PEPPERS OR PICKLE SPEAR. 
Polish sausage w/kraut. $1.99 
Italian Sausage w/sauce $1.99 
Italian Beef w/juice. . . . $2.81 
Combination Beef & Sausage $3.67 
Submarine . . . . $2.90 
Ham & Cheese. $2.67 
,..v vono:"' wVUP'VI'>I::O Vl'l UI:OI,;VUNI::i PRIC:E:S :SUISJtl,; I IV 1,;11ANGE 
Fiee Delivery to N D/SMC with $6 order 
·Jnlisly Jrin.c~ Ji~~eria 
18061-State Road 23 • V2 Block West of Ironwood on 23-' 
272-8030 


"Discover" 

And dillcouer a place where you and your jrfenrh will witness the fine# entertainment In th,. entire area, as well asfabuloWJ fooch to feast on . Dlscouer: 
113 Pound Gounnet Burgers/ 
Pizza Guaranteed To Satisfy/ 
24 Varieties ofImport Beers! 
CUp This Ad And Save 

$3.00 OFF ANY LARGE PIZZA $1.00 OFF ANY SMALL PIZZA 
$1.00 OFF ANY SANDWICH AND FRENCH FRIES PURCHASE 

THANK GOD IT'S FRIDAY 
GOOD FOR ONE BEER FOR .2se 
Second Beer for only .soc 
ANY FRIDAY THIS MONTH MUST BE 21 YEARS OLD TO USE THIS COUPGI·~' INCLUDES ON TAP BEERS ONLY 
--~~~~':tiS'ii''Pe7vl:tt'u;;rn---­
5 Minutes East On Edison To Main St. Then 2 Blocks North To Day Rd. 
a-.------.:::59-0050______... 


·~~4t1l.at~---------------------------------------T-h_u_rs_d_ar_._F_e_b_ru_ary---1-6,_1_9_8_4_-_P_a_ge__
l_l 

Bloom County 
Mellish 
CAll DONALD MflUSH 'l ROOM FOil. 
Ill£, MRS. ttll•lto4S. 
\ 


Guindon 


ACROSS USA word: abbr. 

5 Guinness of films 9-Flow, Scot. 14 Philippine Moslem 15 Etna 
product 16 Four-bagger 17 Auditory 18 Arabian Sea 
gulf 

19 Dress shape 
20 Plymouth plus Parker House 
23 Genetic code car· rier 
24 Sunbeams 25 Small ducks 27 Inclination 30 Finish 
Berke Breathed 
OH. I'M 50Rf\Y 5011 .. flfCJII'T MfAN 1V I?AI5f'-MY VO/C£ ... MU... MUST fH£ 71/f HUM/PrTY I 5URt W15H YOU'(? FtTOI1H05f 5MOK65 6£-FORe I PO 50M£7H/N& 



YOU 1/Af£ Ufffi(Y pfg;~~Clb Til. FI/IE NAflfE If N6TlE IW4E IN THE EYI& If TliE WWP ./ (SfiiTIE/1/) ARE YOU l'tOUt 7J 
HME. SUCcEEDED IN tfll/lAKI/JI~IroiOI 
YIU~ SCHOOl IN FK6NT 6F . MllliiNs OF I'EuPu I!!! Jllsr I/4JIIo Po You T/IINK royu?! 
I 
I 

l __j!l_(ll~~_j 
The Far Side 

"It's back, Arnie! Get the book! ... We're gonna _ settle whether it's an alligator or a crocodile once and for all!" 
(J!.UoiG,IIIIoi&,IIN6) WUAT IN Hu,K: WIRU> DIP YIU 
YfAH? TUINK YOU Wf(f 

Richard Guindon 

The Daily Crossword 

Campus 
•12 
p.m. -Government Career Day, LaFortune Student Center Ballroom, Sponsored By Career And Placement Services 

•I 
:30 p.m. -Music Colloquium, "Monteverdi's Five-Voice Motets: Studies in Cruel Love, Sweet Death, and Musical Revolution," 115 Crowley Hall 

•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Data Com­munication, 115 CCMB 

•4 
p.m. Radiation Lab Seminar, "Construction and Use of On-Line Data Base for Properties of Reactive Intermediates," Alberta Ross, Rad Lab Conference Theatre 

•4 
p.m. -Discussion, "The Kissinger Commis­sion Report on Central America: An Appraisal," Center for Social Concerns 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "B Produc­tion and b Decay," Dr. Carl Rosenfeld, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Graduate Fellowship Prayer Group Meeting, Bulla House 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Mock Democratic Convention-Platform Committee, LaFortune 

•7 
p.m. -Black Cultural Arts Festival, Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee, Library Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -FLOC General Meeting, Center for So­cial Concerns 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Filtn, "Marathon Man," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $1 

•7 
p.m. -Presentation, Peace Corps, for seniors, 123 NSH 

•7:30 
p.m.-Filtn, "Harakiri," Washington Hall 


TV Tonight ­
7p.m. 

7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 

8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
16 MASH 
22 PM Magazine 
28 Joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 
16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel of Fonune 34 Straight Talk 
16 Gimme A Break 22 Magnum, PI 28 1984 Winter Olympics 34 All Creatures Great and Small 
16 Family Ties 
16 Cheers 
22 Simon and Simon 34 Mystery 
16 Buffalo Bill 
16 Hill Street Blues 
22 Knots Landing 
34 Sneak Previews 
One can understand running In a marathon, but who are those people watching the whole thing? 


© 1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Ri hts Reserved 
34 Sp. house 37 Persia, now 40 Small drum 41 Loafend 42 More ashen 44 Center 45 Saudis, e.g. 47 Drama 48 Miss Sommer 49 Permeable 51 Shakespear· 
ean king 53 Carroll heroine 56 Rolling stone lack 59 Navy man: abbr. 
62 Famous football coach 
66 Spokes 68 Ostrich's cousin 
69 Movie critic Pauline 70 Originated 71 Electrical 
unit 72 Lat. abbr. 73 Stores 74 Being: Lat. 75 Dries hay 
DOWN 1 God of love 2 Go by car 3 Writer Jong 4 Movie 
fighter 5 Author 
Paton 6 Actress Cheryl 7 Chris-
Lloyd 8 Pirogue 9 Onion 
relative 10 Neighbor of Mont. 11 Included with 
12 Quaker colonist 13 Kind of code 
21 Chemical suffix 22 Opp.of long. 26 Cape Ken· 
nedy sight 28 Small drink 29 Snare 31 Ancient 
Gr. coin 32 Branch 33 Gratis 34 Fellow 35 Of flying: 
pref. 36 Brand 38 Everything 39 Actress 
Patricia 43 Whiskey 46 Light 
carriages 
50 Transgress 59 Study hard 52 -,amas... 60 Brazil 54 Batter's estuary 
problem 61 Reputation 55 System of 63 Morays values 64 Classify 57 Use a rink 65 Extensions 58 Slammin' 67 Adherent: Sammy suff. 
Wednesday's Solution 



! 
I 
I 
I Sports Thursday, February 16, 1984-page 12 
Irish perform poorly, lose game and NCAA Tournament hopes 
By PHIL WOLF Notre Dame fell behind first half with 14 turnovers," Phelps .\ports Writer immediately to the Panthers when said afterward. "I just think we were Billy Culbertson hit his first two over-anxious in some situations. Somt·times it is amazing how shots of the game to put Pitt up by lbat put us in a hole, and we never 
qukkly dreams can die. four just 45 seconds into the con­really recovered from it." 
Just last week, there was still talk test. 'lbe Panthers continued to of tht· Notre Dame men's basketball Joe Uoward then dished off two dominate the Irish in the second half team gelling an invitation 10 the assists in the next two minutes to and built up their largest lead of the NCAA tournament. F(illowing h ack Ken Barlow, who laid in four points game, 40-24, with 13:50 remaining to-hack los.'it"s at the ACC, however, of his own to tie the game. in the contest. Notre Dame's hopes of receiving a 1 The nmtest remained close until The Irish then seemed to come to tournament hid are certainly about the midpoint of the first half, life for a few minutes. Joseph Price 
dimmed. as the teams traded baskets until came offthe bench to help the team 
Irish coach Di~er Phelps said la~t 10:42, when Tom Sluby put the Irish nm offseven consecutive points and night after Notre Dame's sloppy 67-up, 12-10. That two-point lead come back within nine. 59 loss to the Pittsburgh Panthers turned out to be the last for Notre Ken Barlow actually started the that an NCAA bid is out of the ques­Dame, as Pitt exploded for nine un­scoringspun with a three-point play tion. answered points to lead, 19-12, with at 12:38. Barlow then grabbed a 
"It's obvious we're not going to 5:43 left in the half. rebound at the other end of the the NCAA," Phelps said. "I think we The Irish kept themselves out of court, and sent it back the other way still just have to play with what we the contest fur most of the first withjoe Uoward. Howard passed off have left, and ifwe get a chance to go period by committing 14 turnovers to Price, who bagged a perfect 20­to tht· NIT. wt·'ll go." and taking only 19 shots. The Pan­foot jumper from the right side. 
Tht· Irish will have to improve thers capitalized on the mistakes to Followinga Pitt turnover and a TV considerably on last night's perfor­take a 29-18 lead into the locker­timeout, the Notre Dame student manet: if they hope to sec any post· room at halftime. section came to its feet for the first season play. "We put ourselves in a hole in the time all night to. support the Irish 
cause. Price gladly answered the crowd with a beautiful 20-foot fal­laway jumper, this time from the left side of the key.
Digger signs another 
The Irish could not gain control of the game, however, and the students soon seemed dead on their feet.
recruit for '84-'85 
Notre Dame began to chip away at the Panthers' lead again, and even­
Di~cr Phdps has added an­"Jeff Peters is a very good tually came within six points of the
other player to his hounty for outside shooter," assesses victors. By that time, though, there
next year. Yesterday it was an­Phelps. "That's what caught our were only five seconds remaining in
nounced that jeff Peters, a 6-4, eye. He's got a good head for the 
I HO-pound guard out of Whitko game, hao; good court sense, and 
See LOSS, page 9
lligh School in South Whitley, handles the ball well. He's got the Ind., intend.~ to enroll at Notre pt>tential to be a very com­Dame next fall. petitive player at the college Peters is currently the fourth­level." 
Hard-working sophomore 
ranked scorer in Indiana high "Be's unquestionably the best school haskcthall this season, all-around player I've ever holding down a 28.7 average. In coached," said Whitko coach Bill 

Thebeau adds enthusiasm to Irish 
addition to his scoring prowess, Patrick about Peters. 
the left-handed shm>tcr also con­Peters had also given con­

By SCOTT BICHA career when he was just five years I wanted to see how they played in atributes an average of nine sideration to Purdue, Wisconsin, Sports Writer old. "I started skating when I was different league, " he says. "Therebounds, six assists, and four Northwestern, Michigan State, four years old," says Thebeau. "I CCHA (Central Collegiate !Iockey
steals per game to the Whitko and Cincinnati, before deciding Upon meeting Boh Thebeau one played mostly on travelling teams As.'iOCiation) is supposed to he a 

cause. on Notre Dame. 

might tend to believe he is a shy in­until I started high school." good league."
A guard who can play either He is the fifth player to say he dividual, but the members of the Thebeau joined the St. Peter­lbcbeau also contends he wasthe point or shooting spot, Peters will play for the Irish next year. 

Notre Dame hockey team would dis­Marion High School hockey team in struck by the overwhelming vitalityhas 1,030 points in his career at Assuming all other scholarship agree. The right dcfenseman's en­the fall of 1978. Bob had an im­of Notre Dame. "I was on a recruit­
Whitko, making him that school's players return next year, with 

thusiastic attitude radiates both on pressive three years in high school, ing trip, and I saw a Dcpaui-Notre·-first I ,000-pt>int scorer. He has Peters, Notre Dame will have the and offthe icc. culminating in an even more im­Dame game. The spirit just hit me,"shot 61 percent from the field NCAA limit of I 5 players on 
"He's a character to a certain de­pressive senior year. says Thebeau.
gree," says head coach Lefty Smith. "I was named captain ofmy team," Thebeau has accumulated a su­
far this sca<;<>n. sea~n. 

"He keeps the guys loose." says Thebeau, "and I received an perb college record at Notre Dame. 
Theheau describes himself as a award for being the team's most He colkcted 19 points as a freshman motivator for the team. "I try to get valuable defenscman." Be also led and 39 points in his second year the team up for games," he says. St. Peter-Marion, a school in Worces­with 15 goals and 24 assists. "I'm 
And getting up for the games is ex­ter, Massachusetts, to the Central pretty coolheaded on the icc," says 
actly what the Irish have done this Massachusetts state title his senior Thebeau. "I don't try to look for 
year, losing only one oftheir 23 con­year. scraps." Smith considers Thebeau an 
tests this season. "Bigh st·hool hm:kcy is strong in "offensive dcfenscman," which is a 
One of the reasons the team has Massachusetts," says Thebeau. good indication of his drive and done so well this year is due in pan "We're just about like Minnesota forcefulness on the icc. to the efforts of Bob Thebeau. "Be when it comes to hockey." "He (Thebeau) is a hard worker." has the ability to get up and rush the Thebeau was highly recruited by says Smith. "He ·has age and ex­puck," says Smith. "He ha~ a good Notre Dame and several other col­perience. His natural maturation and shot and gets it in the net." leges. He was able to narrow his the level of compt·tition has helped 
The 5-1 I sophomore marketing choices down to Yale and Notre major started his successful hockey Dame. "I chose Notre Dame because 
See THEBEAU, page 8 
Frustrating campaign 

U.S. hockey team ties Finland 
Associated Press That took its toll on the team that well over long stretches or enjoyed played Finland yesterday. good luck. Frustration built and they 
SARAJEVO, Yugoslavia -Disaster "It's been difficult to put aside vented it in costly pt·nalties. has dogged the American hockey what everyone expected of us," U.S. "We've taken just as much as players ever since they began player Bob Brooke said. "We were we've dished out," said Brooke, competing here. Coach Lou Vairo intent to do it, but it proved to be whose goal with 38 seconds left hopes it will stay behind when they really, really difficult. There was the made the score 3-2. "What hurt us leave. buildup for six months (of exhibi­was the retaliation penalties. I at­

After Finland scored with 21 tion games) and what the 1980 team tribute it to the frustration ..." seconds left yesterday to earn a 3-3 did. It all added up." The last frustration against Fin­tie with the United States, Vairo said From the opening 4-2 upset lo~ land came 17 seconds after Brooke 
Thr Ob!inwr/P:wl Cll2rrlli that once the Winter Olympics end to Canada to yesterday's tie t. bad scored. The Finns replaced Irish right defenseman Bob Thebeau chose Notrf! Dame over he's "going to head home and hope clinched the worst U.S. hockey goalie Kari Takko with an extra other schools because ofthe "vitality" and "spirit" ofthe student the plane makes it." fmish in Olympic history -no bet­skater at 19:31 and eight seconds body. The sophomore now shares tbat winning attitude on and off Four years ago the U.S. beat Fin­ter than seventh place -little has later Anssi Melametsa beat U.S. net­the ice, helping the Irish hockey team to a 21-1-1 record thisseason. land, 4-2, to win the Olympic hock­gone right for the Americans this minder Marc Behrend, who was Scott Bicha's profile at right. ey gold medal in Lake Placid, N.Y. .time around. They rarely played screened on the 30-foot wrist shot. 



