ROTC page7 


VOL XVIII, NO. 135 the independent ~tudent new~paper ~lT\ing notn dame and .,amtmary·, TUESDAY, MAY 1,1984 
President Reagan ends six-day trip to Communist China on good note 
Associated Press gether to write a new chapter of "We have seen your great monu· peace and progress for our people." ments such as the Great Wall. But 
SHANGHAI, China -President "My visit to China leaves me we're not working in mortar and Reagan received the warmest confident that U.S.-China relations stone here. My hope is that we can welcorpe ofhis six-day visit to China arc good and getting better," he said. accomplish something between and said at a farewell banquet that ourselves that will also be remem­the United States and China are plan· The president returns to the bered 1,000 years from now." ning "to write a new chapter of United States today, crossing the in­peace and progress." ternational dateline and landing in From the farewell ceremony in 
Winding up his final day in China Fairbanks, Alaska. after first visiting a Peking, Reagan flew south to this at a banquet given by Shanghai child care center and modest private teeming city of 12 million. Mayor Wang Daohan, Reagan said, residence at a commune on May Addressing more than 1,000 stu­"My trip to China has been as impor· Day, the international workers· dents in a handpicked audience at tant and enlightening as any I've holiday. Fudan University, where a huge taken as pn:sident." As China prepared to celebrate statue of the late Mao Tse·tung 
Reagan also finally got an oppor· the two-day holiday. workers placed adorns a campus plaza, Reagan tunity to speak directly to a Chinese towering portraits of four com· quoted from the opening ofthe Dec· telt-vision audience with out having munist heroes of the nation -Karl laration of Independence, and also his remarks censored, but there was Marx, Frederick Engels, Josef Stalin from the late Chinese leader Cho En· still a hitch -his speech was not and V.I. Lenin -in Tiananmen Lai. translated into Chinese. Square in Peking. along the Reagan's comments on 
Observing that I 2 years ago motorcade route Reagan took from democracy and on the Soviet Union Richard M. Nixon visited the the Great Hall of the People and a were deleted earlier in the trip from People's Republic of Chna, becom· farewell meeting with President Ii Chinese television coverage of the ing the first American president to Xiannian and Premier Zhao Ziyang. president. Regional television here do so. Reagan said at the Shanghai In his farewell meeting with Li, broadcast in full his speech at the banquet: Reagan was said by White House university, but the coverage was in 
"Today, America and China share spokesman Larry Speakes to have English and no translation was the commitment to go forward to-told the Chinese president: provided. 
LaFortune renovations planned 
l'hl." Obst·rvt_-r/l.ev Chapclsky 
By MARK POTTER Tyson said part of the delay Although McDonnell is pleased 
Students study in the Chautauqua ballroom, part ofLaFortune 
Copy Editor towards remodeling LaFortune has that something is finally going to be 
targeted for renovation under the proposals by the LaFortune
been t-hat the administration did not done to LaFortune he added, "I don't 
Renovation Committee. Plans for the secondfloor include an un­
The new Student Center students have a plan from the students that think what we are coming up with is 
dergraduate club and a pizzeria.
have been asking for is not probable they could work with. McDonnell the ideal solution. I think there is a in the immediate future but a submitted a renovation plan last question of committment on the remodeled LaFortune is, according year but it was not adequate, accord· part of the University. Perhaps there 
Hart contends he is only 
to Executive Assistant to the Presi­ing to Tyson. It was not should be a presidentially appointed dent Father David Tyson. "interpretable by the people at committee to look at this problem, The first stages of renovation and Physical Plant," said Tyson. They just like there was one on alcohol," 

Democrat to beat Reagan 
addition to LaFortune are underway, were not able to interpret McDon­McDonnell said. "Maybe we should said Tyson. The Lafortune Renova­nell's ideas into a concrete set of bring in an outside consultant to Associated Press He warned that the country can­tion Committee, composed of five plans for the building. look for the ideal solution, as is stan­not afford a "costly and unnecessary students and Director ofStudent Ac­McDonnell said he has been dard in this sort ofsituation." ANDERSON, Ind. -Democratic and dangerous nuclear arms race." tivitiesjames McDonnell, submitted "working with student government McDonnell said, "I know that presidential contender Gary Hart Hart also put in plugs for Indiana's ideas for the LaFortune renovation for two months coming up with especially with the new alcohol portrayed himself yesterday in this farm economy, saying that farm ex­to Tyson yesterday morning. ideas, we (the committee) have policy we need something outside auto industry town as the only can­ports must be encouraged to im­
"Basically now we have to meet been meeting weekly since our residence halls." Notre Dame didate in his party who could beat prove the lot ofagriculture. with the architects and have them February." He submitted one set of needs a better student center for Ronald Reagan. He called for an industrial policy draw up the preliminary drawings ideas a couple ofweeks ago and gave several reasons, said McDonnell, The Colorado senator was that would modernize the auto in­which we will then show to the Of­a revised copy yesterday to Tyson. "Because we don't have a college greeted by a crowd of more than dustry rather than protectionist ficers of the University for ap­"The University is interested and town or the big city amenities that 300 supporters who waited at the legislation that would bail out a few proval," said Tyson. Right now the wants to make improvements," said other univeristies have we need a Anderson Municipal Airport in hurting companies. University's Officers are waiting for McDonnell. He said he believes this good student center." He says he winds gusting up to 40 mph. Eighty­The candidate drew more cheers the plans to be drawn up. Tyson said to be especially true since "the al­believes, "something will be done pound bags of water-softener salt when he called for restoring money the process "normally takes three to cohol report was approved by the but I'm not in a position to know were used to anchor the amplifiers cut from the nation's education four weeks." Officers and Trustees and it calls for what." to broadcast Hart's message to the budget, saying it should be used to 
"I don't know what the response action and for immediate plans to be McDonnell said, "What we need is group. finance everything from free of the Officers will be," said Tyson. developed." too big for the present structure." Hart proclaimed that the 1984 lunches for schoolchildren to He added, "Father Hesburgh has McDonnell said, "Maybe we have Plans for adding on to LaFortune campaign will be a "watershed elec­guaranteed student loans for college been waiting for a program from the all those alcholic parties in the halls above the game room on the east tion." students. students for us to work with, and he because we don't have a college side of the building have been dis· "This country cannot afford four "I say to Mr. Reagan that if you is supportive of a program to town, a big city, or a good student more years of Reaganomics for the think education is too expensive, renovate LaFortune." center, like other universities have." rich," he said as the crowd cheerecl. wait until you find out how much ig­
norance costs," he said. 
Hart proposed to find the addi­A tree tional money for education by canceling the MX missile and the B I 
that fell bomber. Hart made a veiled reference tofor Indiana former Vice President Walter 1\bndale, who was in South Bend
weather 
Monday, saying "I hope this party will nominate a candidate who has 
Because of yester· not taken political action committee dav's and last night's special interest money." extreme/}' high winds. Hart shared a platform with local frees fell all f)l!er Democratic officials, including Rep. 
Craig Campbell, D-Anderson. who
campus and were sub· 
described Hart as "our party's best 
sequent~v chain-sawed 
chance to beat Ronald Reagan."
into logs and cleaned 
Campbell remarked about the 
up by Notre Dame 
presence of local United Auto 
maintenance. This tree 
Workers officials and said "don't 
toppled over on South 
believe for a minute that just be· Quad in front ofLyons cause the UAW made an endorse-
Hall. 
... ....' 
see, HART, page S ' ,
... .. ..
~ 
The Observer Tuesday, May 1, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief 

A Notre Dame junior David F. McGonigle has been awarded an Edwin, Frederick and Walter Heinecke Memorial Scholarship from the S & H Foundation, to help defray expenses of his senior year and two years of graduate study. Valued at up to $30,000, the award is one offive given to outstanding scholars, with preference given to students in arts or sciences with an announced goal of college teaching. McGonigle, of Beaver, Pennsylvania, is majoring in philosophy and plans to pursue either philosophy or literature in graduate school. -The Observer 
The new assistant vice president for busi­ness affairs at Notre Dame will be james ]. Lyphout, director of general services at Northwestern University the last seven years. He succeeds the late Brother Kieran Ryan. At Northwestern he su­pervised a staff of 138 full-time and 30 part-time employees in direct­ing scv<:ral operations. His appointment is effective July I. -The Observer 
The Observer and Scholastic were the recipients of several awards at this year's Indiana Collegiate Press Association Convention held April 13-14 in New Albany, Indiana. The Observer was named the third best daily college newspaper in Indiana, and Scholastic, the second best literary magazine. Scholas­tic staff members received seven first place awards, including best cover, Dan Price; best non-photo art, Elizabeth Carlson; best makeup ofissue, Tom Sapp; best photo, Mike Delaney; best column,Jim Gan­ther; and best investigative article, Brian Couch. Obsen,er staff mem­bers won two first place awards: best sports story, Jane Healey; and ht·st news analvsis, Dave Dziedzic. In addition,-The Obsen;er ret'Cived three s~cond place and seven third place awards. Scholas­tic won nine second place and three third place awards. The I CPA is an assodation of Indiana college newspapers, magazines, and year­hooks. Tht·y meet once a year for workshops. kctures and an award cnemony. -The Obsen1er 
The United States and the Soviet llnion have held a third round ofdiscussions aimed at making technical improvements in the hot line between the two countries, the State Department said yestt·rday. State lkpartment deputy spokesman Alan Romberg had no comment on the meeting except to say that the American delega­tion presented its views on ways to improve direc~ communications between the two countries. The Washington Post said Monday the l lnited States is proposing that Soviet diplomats open consulate in New York in return for the opening ofan American consular office in Kiev. -AP 
van Smith, chairman and president of M.mcie, Ind.'s Ontario Corp., became chairman of the li.S. Chamber ofCom­mt·rce yesterday in inauguration ceremonies here. Smith, who has been the chamber's vice chairman for the last two years, is the first lloosier to hold the top post in the U.S. Chamber, which represents nearly a quarter million businesses nationwide. In an interview with The Indianapolis News last year, Smith, 55, said his election -to kadcrship roles with the US. Chamber reflected an effort to gain greater visibility for small businesses. -AP 
Chinese frontier guards "wiped out" intruding Vietnamese troops along the border yesterday, the state-run televi­sion reported. The broadcast did not say how many Vietnamese en­tered the Chinese province of Yunnan or give casualty figures for either side. China and Vietnam have accused one another ofshelling each other's territory and of killing civilians in recent weeks. China claims the Vietnamese had built fortifications on Chinese soil. China was allied with Vietnam during its war against the United States but has clashed frequently with it since. The Chinese object to Viet­namese occupation of Cambodia and support one of the rebel groups trying to topple the Vietnamese-backed government there. 
-AP 

Weather 

Mostly sunny, breezy and mild today, with the high in the low to mid 60s. Becoming cloudy tonight, with the low in the low to mid 40s. Cloudv and mild tomorrow, with a slight chance of rain developing. High in mid and uppt-r 60s.-AP 


The Observer 
The Observer ( l Sp<, ~9') 2..1()00 ) " puhlishnl Monda)" throu~h l'riday and on home: loothall ~aturday~. exn:pt during t·xam and v;u:ation pc..·riod:t. The 
Observer i!lo puhli!!ohcd h} the.· srudc..·nt~of the.· l'mvt·r.!rlity or N,,rrc Dame.· a'ld Saint Maq \ College..: Sulbt:riprion!lo may he.· 
Jlllfl has<·d fur S2 ~ p<·r year ( S l ~ p<· r ~c..·mt:su:r) hy writinK The Observer, 1'.0. flox Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46~~(>. 
The Observer is a member ofThe As­sociated Press. All reproduction ri~hts 
an· rc..·sc..·rvc..·d 
Tod.a~··s issut· was produced by; 
Desl?.n Editor.........................Chris Bowler ' Desl?.n Assistant...... ....John Mennell f.ct)•out S~t<ff ....................... Sharon Markert 
· Sta<·ey Prunesli 1)•pesetters...................... Bill ffi~hducheck 
Michelle Fanlo N<•u•s Editor... .... Mary llealy G'<JPI' l:'dltor ............................... Mark Potter Sports Copy Editor.............. Marc Ramirez Vieu1Jointlct)•out..... ............ Paulllruce NIJ Day Editor................... Melinda Moore SMC Day t'<litor............ Maggie O'Connell At/ Design ......................................Jean Euch Photographer..... .. .. ..... Lev Chapelsky Typists.. . ................ Ellen Malloy 
Slotman... . ....... Sreve Foster 



Sociologist Gordon Zahn: Pacifist and Roman Catholic 
Though many U.S. Catholics have yet to recognize 
pacifism as a viable option in today's world, the U.S. bis­
hops' pastoral letter on peace and war gradually is 
making more persons aware of the Christian commit­
ment to pacifism, says Catholic pacifist Gordon Zahn. 
The 66-year-old Zahn, a professional sociologist and 
historian who served four years in a U.S. Civilian Public 
Service camp as a conscientious objector to World War 
II, is the author of In Solitary Witness, a biography 
about Franz)agerstatter. 
jagerstatter, a Catholic Austrian peasant, against the 
advice offamily, friends and his local bishop, refused to 
serve in Hitler's army on just war grounds and was be­
headed Aug. 9, 1943. 
What follows are exerpts from an interview Zahn 
gave while at Notre Dame last month: 
Have U.S. bishops, in issuing theirpastoral letter on peace and war, taken the prophetic edge away from the laity and assumed the role of prophet in the Church? 
It (the pastoral letter) is really rather a cautious step ahead, a step toward viewpoints which do have more radical connotations. For example, the elevation of pacifism as a legitimate option for Catholics is a pretty big step even though in the final version they (the U.S. bishops) do go back a bit and seem to put it entirely on an individual basis. Even so, that's important. 
With the discussion of non-violence, the same thing happens. But they recognize it to an extent that it has never been recognized before -as a group position. And in this case, they go beyond the question of legitimacy and treat it as a viable possibility, as possibly efficacious. They strongly recommend further study in it. And I think that's important. 
In the pastoral you've got that instruction that we must regard as normal the path of persecution and the possibility of martyrdom. That's a very important rever­sal. And to that extent, you have at least the beginnings of prophecy. 
The biggest contribution of the pastoral is that which was previously dismissed as the type ofthing (pacifism) you get from heretical sects is now something worthy ofexamination by the Catholic community. It spoke of it favorably, in fact. That's an important difference. And it's a starting place. They haven't spoken a final word and they give no impression of having spoke a final word. 
You say this is a starting place. What isthe next step? 
There's going to be continuing stress on defending concientious objection (by the bishops). I would im­agine one ofthe things that I would certainly be pushing for is a more explicit condemnation ofcertain forms of military service. 
It could be in keeping with the spirit ofthe document 
to say that a Catholic can't serve on the Trident or in a 
missile silo, or something like this. Or even that a Cath­
olic can't train to do it. 
Until now, a person has had to establish his right to 
classification as a C.O. I would like to see the emphasis 

.... 

Paul McGinn 
lnsi 
ay 
of the bishops and the Church be on basically you assume that a Christian is not supposed to take part in war and would have to justify accepting military service. It would be a switch ofemphasis. It would bring us back pretty much to what the early Christian were doing. 
How do you make the average Catholic aware of pacifism as a viable option? 
There are different forms of education programs (which can be) undertaken at the parish level. Obvious­ly that's very important -that's where you can reach these middle-class Catholics who have never heard of the whole idea ofpacifism. 
As far as the people at parish levels, there is a task of undoing what has already been learned (about pacifism). The best you can expect out of a parish education program is at least an awareness of the new trend and the implication. 
What do you see as the major problems with the peace movement ttsetp 
In terms of the Catholic peace movement, (there) is the problem of liberation. My full sympathy is with liberation movements, but I would reject aligning myself with those groups which incorporate violence as a way of seeking resolutions to problems. There arc those (such as Jesuit Father Daniel Berrigan and his brother, a formerJosephite priest, Philip Berrigan) who feel it (I iheration) has to be confrontational. 
The good and bad thing is that confrontation gets notice. The good thing about the notice is that people contest their position in courts and certainly get press attention. 
The negative effect that goes along with it is that con­frontation sometimes distorts the message. It's a com­munication problem, I think. 
I think the first two Berrigan actions (the first, on Oct. 27, 1967, when Philip Berrigan and three others "annointed" draft records in a Baltimore Selective Service office with duck blood bought at a nearby delicatessen; the second, on May 17, 1968, when Daniel and Philip Berrigan and seven others burned, using homemade napalm, hundreds of draft cards outside a Selective Service office in Catonsville, Md.) were mag­nificent. 
But as he (Daniel Berrigan) seems to escalate both in numbers ofparticipants and frequency ofaction, I think the point got lost and ifnor lost completely, was at least clouded by the resentment ofmany people. 
I don't intend to dismiss their recent actions. For myself, I have more individual (ways ofprotest). The important thing that we have to recognize is that there is no dichotemy between prayer and protest. 
The 
1984DOME 


is Here!!! 


Undergraduates can pick up their book on the Stepan Courts Mon. April 30 -Thurs. May 3, from 12:005:00 p.m. Must present I D to get your yearbook! ! ! 


Mayl Chautauqua 
7:30~ 9:30~ 11:30 
Adm:$1 

All new  
Counsellne tapes!  
3  Types of Intimacy  
4  Physical Intimacy  
5  Fighting Constructively  
6  Expressing Negative  
Thoughts and Feelings  
20  Female Homosexuality  
21  Male Sexuality  
34  Increasing Self-Awareness  
36  The Value and Use of  
Self-Talk  
40  Male Sex Roles-Changes  
and Stresses  
70  Infatuation or Love  
84  Death and Dying  

411 Contracts in Intimate Relationships 412 Examples of Contract Buildin_g_ 
CALL:239-7793 Hours: 4-10 Mon-Thurs 
All you do is dial239-7793 and ask for the name or number of the tape you wish to hear. COUNSELINE is free and con­fidential, and is offered to you by the University of NotreDame Counseling and Psychological Services Center. 
---CLIP & SAVE---
Counseline is looking for volunteers to answer phones. If you are interested, please call tts at 239-7336. 

.

t: o :•••: t • t • f • • • o ~ o • .,,.~.._.,.... ~0,:\ ', 1:\......,,.·.,:):'l.'),'"f.'i'~',', f ,',',","', • .•~ .. .. ~·~·=~~.s(,•:..-:,-:.(//./'~~·~.l";~'l"'..,/Oo,~,/'~·.J~. •..f>_~·· "• • .... ·._.ft\.."J,\\\\1\"\\,\.'"'••• f • IIf.·:~:
• 

The Observer Tuesday, May 1, 1984 -page 3 
Panama Archbishop ordains priests at ND 

By KERRY HAVERKAMP 
StaffReportet· 
Four priests were ordained into the Holy Cross Order by the ·Arch­bishop of Panama last Saturday at Sacred Heart Church. The new priests are Michael E. Connor . 
Joseph V. Corpora, James E. McDonald, and Arthur Wheeler. 
Following their ordination, the newly-ordained clergymen have a variety of plans. Connors is intend­ing to do parochial/pastoral work. Corpora wishes to teach foreign lan­guages ~t Notre Dame or one of its extensions, and is also contemplat­ing missionary work in South America. 
McDonald will be on campus in a residence hall next fall, and is preparing to do doctoral work on a Ph.D. which he may complete in London. Wheeler, who has a Ph.D. in history, wishes to continue working at the California parish where he has been a deacon. He is also consider­ing teaching at Notre Dame or in London where he has taught before. 
Wheeler said he decided to join the priesthood because he felt a call. "I wanted to be a priest all my life and felt that it wasn't a choice but an answer to God's call." He described it as a "nagging of the Holy Spirit." 

According to Father Andre Leveille. head of vocations at Moreau Seminary, there are two main reasons young men choose the Holy Cross Order. One is that the or­der is committed to a community­centered life. The second is the wide variety of ministries to choose from. such as missions, parish work, and teaching. Wheeler said he had been leaning toward the Jesuit Order un­til he came to Notre Dame for his doctorate. His experiences with the Holy Cross priests turned him toward that order. 
To become a Holy Cross priest a man spends a year as a candidate, a year as a novitiate, three graduate years in theology, and a year as a deacon. As a deacon, the priest-to-be serves an internship with a master priest and can perform all services, such as marriages and baptisms, with the exception of Mass and confes­sions. Father Leveille called it a type of"on the job training." 
Father Leveille commented that 
on the whole. the number of men in 
the U.S. choosing the priesthood has 
fallen. but the Holy Cross Order has 
increased its intake. The order has 
120 seminarians now and more 
seniors are entering this year than 
ever before. 
esc sponsors lunch programs open to all 
By FRANK LIPO has been so successful that next year Senior StaffReporter it will occur about twice a month. Today from 11:30-1:30, Alicia The CSC allows a community
Killer 

Garcia, a Chilean immigrant, invites service organization or a family to you to a Spanish lunch she has use its facilities. Usually with the
tornado 

prepared at the Center for Social help of about four students, the 
ENTREPRENEURS WANTED 
r.ofTW'"nE 
IS SEEKING 
~~ f I f-rfl xpress AMBITIOUS AND TALENTED INDIVIDUALS TO BECOME AUTHORIZED REPRESEN­TATIVES IN THE EXPLODING COMPUTER SOFTWARE AND PERIPHERALS INDUSTRY. EXTENSIVE KNOWLEDGE OF COMPUTERS IS NOT REQUIRED. WE NEED PEOPLE WHO: 
• 
ARE RESPONSIBLE AND INDEPENDENT. 

• 
ARE ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT OPERATING THEIR OWN BUSINESS. 

• 
DESIRE FINANCIAL SUCCESS. 


SOFTWRRE:rpress WILL PROVIDE THE NECESSARY TRAINING AND SUPPORT TO MAKE YOUR BUSINESS A SUCCESS. ONE STUDENT WILL BE SELECTED IN JUNE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS THIS FALL ON YOUR CAMPUS. CALL TODAY FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
(COLLECT CALLS ACCEPTED) 
(415) 322-0639 
SOFTWR!JEzpress 
catch the wove 
360 Forest Ave., Suite 303 • Palo Alto, CA 94301 
Concerns. 

This lunch is the latest in a series of once-a-month ethnic lunches sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns to benefit a community service program or a family. 
Mary Ann Roemer of the CSC is the coordinator of the program. She said th~ service has been run on an experimental basis this year, and it 
Looking for a better way to spend your time?? 

The Observer Production Department has set out on a mission to find the best possible candidates for our layout dept. next semester. No experience is necessary, but en­thusiasm, a sense of humor and a willingness to learn are essential. Br­ing a friend, bring a retative, bring a pen to the LaFortune office this week to fill out an ap­

i:ilic~:llion·. · · · · · · 

group prepares the meal. The meal is advertised and served to the public. Any profits are used for the charitable purposes of the organiza­tion or family. 
Roemer said, "We wouldn't allow an organization to come in just to make money. Our criteria is that any money made goes to an area of real need." 
Such organizations as the St. Augustine Soup Kitchen and La Casa Mexican-American Day Care Center have served lunches. There have been other Spanish lunches and also Cambodian lunches prepared by Asian refugees. Roemer said that from 50-100 people have attended each of the lunches, which have ranged in price from $2.50 to 83. She added, "We try to connect our work with students here on campus as well as the outside community." 
Roemer said, "Through coming to these type of activities, we would like to have the students become aware of the other opportunities we offer at the Center." Some of the other activities the escsponsors are the Urban Plunge, the Senior Reflec­tion Group, the semester in Mexico and various peace and justice ac­tivities. 
She said, "We realize that many students are active in such activities and we encourage others to par­ticipate. We feel that such activities have been and should be part of the education here at Notre Dame." 
Roemer stressed the hospitality and fellowship of the Lunch Program. She said, "We see a lot of suffering and sadness but fun times are a part of any service activity. It's not just the grim aspects that should gain publicity. Celebration is also a part ofour work." 
Todays lunch will consist ofsalad. bread, vegetable soup. dessert. and coffee or tea, for 52. 50. There will be live Spanish music and the meal will be outdoors, weather permitting. Proceeds from the lunch will go to the Garcia Family, who recently arrived in America from Chile. Anyone interested in helping with this or other programs may contact Roemer at the CSC. 
The Observer 

Reagan signs nuclear agreement with China 
Associated Press 

NE\X' YOI{K -Tht· l I.S.-Chinese ntKkar coopt·ration agrt-ement signnl yesterdar gives American manufacturers likt· Westinghouse ami (it·m-ral Eknric an ullrtT in!o an already spirited bidding war with the British. 1-rt·nch . .Japam:se and 'X'est <icrmans. 
While there'.' no guarantee the pan will bring new business to tht· Amt·rican nuckar plant makers. in­dustrr t'XJkrts arc cont1dem they'll get their share of work on the I 0 to 12 units the Chinese will build in the next decade. 
"The other countries have 'l:er­tainly had a head start, hut wt·'ve got a good product," said Bob Szalay, senior vin· presidem of Atomic In­dustrial Forum, an industry trade group. 
Szalay, who accompanied about 
2') American scientists and manufac­
turt·rs' representatives to Peking and 
three other cities in October, said 
he's sure the other countries have 
ht•t·n husy "trying to negotiate for 
the other plants." 
"But I'm sure the American manufacturers will he ready to get ott" the starting line and get in there with the information and proposals nt·cessary to make them com­petitive:," he: said. 
(it·nc:ral Electric, for example, has hc:en meeting with Chinese nuclear representatives since 1979. awaiting government approval to take the process further. 
Despite: lagging sales in the: United Statc:s, both GE and Westinghouse have: hc:en doing t·xtensive nuclear business overseas. Both are building or have built plants or parts ofplants in japan, Spain, Taiwan and Jtaly. 

Center to open soon 
By BUD LUEPKE 
News Staff 

Last year, ND/SMC Right to Life decided to establish what John May, the dub's vice president, called "an alternative to abortion for women seeking help with their pregnancy" in South Bend. Through hard work and donations from many, the idea has materialized at 4 I 7 N. St. Louis Street, nt·xt door to South Bend's abortion clinic 
Official opening of the Woman's Care Center is being delayed while students finish work on the building. In the week since the <:enter unoffi­cially opened. 14 clients have come to it for help. "These clients have come mainly from our listing in the phone hook and our side walk coun­stl5lrs," May s::il~. lie said a large advertising t·ampaign will begin af­ter the center's official opening in about two wet·ks. 
May said I') counseling volun­teers have just completed a training period to offer these services. Rogers is the only paid counselor at the center. 
The center offers personal counseling, a 24-hour phone line, and help in obtaining financial aid, medical care, and employment The building is too small to offer housing for women, hut May said the center will help them find housing or tem­porary residence. with consenting families. 
Debra Rogers, director ofthe cen­ter, said the center begins to counsel the client after a pregnancy test. "We have seen a variety of cases where a person has had to get out of a home situation. We try to contact the boyfriend and we offer counsel­ing. It is all very confidential," she said. 

Tuesday, May 1, 1984 -page 4 

President RonaldReagan tries his band at soldering China. See story at rightand on page 1for infonnatton a printed circuit board as a Chinese worker keeps a on thePresident's visit to China and the nuclearpower keen eye yesterday at the Foxboro Plant in Shanghai, agreement be concluded. 
Counselor emphasizes social alternatives 
By CHRISTOPHER RYAN 
News Staff 
"If two years from now the social life at Notre Dame is a more positive, less alcohol-dominated world, the committee will have accomplished its job," said Dr. Patrick Utz, Notre Dame's director of alcohol counsel­ing, regarding the Committee on the Responsible Use ofAlcohol. 
Utz strongly supported the com­mittee's decision to conform to state drinking laws and its efforts to decrease alcohol's central role in Notre Dame social life, but he pointed out that a major issue to be addressed now is the lack of social alternatives. 
He said "like the majority of the people in the Notre Dame com­munity, I feel that these issues had to he dealt with, and that the commit­tee has made excellent recom­mendations for change." Utz added, "it seems the challenge is now for all members of the Notre Dame com­munity to look at the overall social life on this campus and to make a concerted effort to improve it." 
Alcohol abuse at Notre Dame isn't any more serious than at other col­leges or universities, Utz believes. 
But he sees a problem in Notre Dame's "centrality of alcohol use in social activities" and the lack of al­ternatives to replace it. He hopes one positive result . of the new 
policy, if any come about, will be to put "pressure" on all those con­cerned to make an effort to expand, improve, and develop alternatives to alcohol. 
Regarding the efforts needed to develop social alternatives, Utz said that "Our role as faculty, students, and staffof the University is to work towards this goal" and that it is up to members of the community to find the answers needed to reach it. 



Kitchen Sta(fApplications for Senior Bar can be picked up Mon., Tues., Wed. (April 30 -May 2) in the Student Activities Office of LaFortune Applications due Thurs., May 3 by Spm 

'~Got to tell somebody!" 
LIVE DRAMA PRODUCTION 
In this poM erful drim~ produCiion, Jesus rt<~ches our co our IOSI world. Your heilrt ¥>ill be ulrred v.·itt'! new puriotic iippreci.atlon n tribut( il p.11d to this niltion .and culturu •round the alobe ue hiJhlllhtrd. Journry throu1h the mu1ic 11nd •ctin& bnk 2,000 yurs u John th( Bllptill prrp.aru the wily for the comin1 Meui1h. Then return to lhr prutnl . . to T•ll Sorr»body About Him. 

FRIDAY -MAY 4th NOTRE DAME A.C.C. -7:00 P.M. 
DON'T MISS THIS DYNAMIC PRODUCTION-VIEWED BY THOUSANDS ACROSS AMERICA 
Popejobtl Paull/ bugs a boy upon his arrival at the
Suffer the children 
Church ofSaint May in Campitelli at the foot ofthe to cOtne nnto me Ca'!lpidvg~io Sunday at the starl P/hisp~storqJ, ·v,isits. 
., 

.· ·.·.•...,.!. \l .f. I' • .1:1.#-#I 1/j,,. I' Jll~f" ,_,,,1'# 1#_1 #/*i.## #.•.#./~.~-..., • ..t ~•\ .,.,.. ,,• ..,,, " • •.• ,;.,~. • .. 

The Observer Tuesday, May 1, 1984 -page 5 

Student Body Vice President Cathy David,~amples the victuals at a Student Senate snack time before their meeting last night. See story at rightfor details ofthe meeting. 
Senior Bar Cards will be sold Mon., Tues., Wed. (April30-May 2) in North and South Dining Halls and SMC Dining Hall from 5-6:30pm Bar Cards are $18.00 now. Prices will go up at the end of the school year 

Call Pete's Southside Marathon 
(no deposit necessary) LOW RATES I ONE-WAY & LOCAL RENTALS 
1.,.,., • .,.,) U.S.,CANADA&ALASKA 0 :Z 
1293 South 11th Niles, MI ........(616) 684-3340 

Student Senate criticizes alcohol directives set up by Dean Roemer 
By MIKE MILLEN 
Staff Reporter 
The student senate blasted Dean Roemer's Alcohol Directives at last night's meeting. According to Stu­dent Body Vice President Cathy David, the trustees "will be discuss­ing the directives and voting on them" at their meeting on Thursday. David, along with Student Body President lbb Bertino and several student senate members, will be present at the meeting to express their views on the issue. 
David voiced displeasure at the "beer and wine only" directive, noting "it is unfair to impose a strict limitation." Joan Cahill, President of Lyons Hall, found fault with the "number of people in a room" policy, stating "you can have a lot of people in a room and it's really low key, while halfas many people might be a real party." Student Body Treasurer AI Novas felt that a clear set of rules are necessary. "It would be nice to formulate a uniform 
policy. I'm sure that some dorms will be more lenient than others," he said. 
Other senate members disagreed. Grace Hall President Todd McMul­len believes interpretation of the policy should rest with the hall staff, commenting "the rector should decide whether it is a party or a gathering." Doug Wurth, executive coordinator, warned that the policy should take RA responsibility into account. "We must be careful about how much pressure will be put on RAs," he said. 
The "no bars in rooms" point, thought to be rather non-negotiable by David, was critically discussed by Novas. He believes bars do not promote increased alcohol con­sumption, noting "I don't know a lot of people who have a well-stocked bar-they can'tafford it." 
Duane Lawrence, president of St. Edward's Hall, was unhappy with the "50 percent alcohol, 50 percent food" budget which the directives advocate. "We have a 30 per cent food requirement here," he said, ad­ding "it's always enough." 

The senate at large disagreed with the last two proposed rules. No one was in favor of the directive which demands that transported alcohol be "in original, unopened packing with the original receipt." 
The rule requiring students from other colleges to give IDs when re­quested also met with general disap­proval. Senate members cited the impracticality of a student from the University of Illinois giving his lD to a Notre Dame Security Guard and having it mailed back to school weeks later. 
In other matters, Student Body President Rob Bertino said letters requesting support for the student government position on the directives and alcohol policy will be sent this week. "We are going to have these letters signed by students to show support, and we will show them (to the administration) a the CLC meeting." 
Government reports economy lag 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The govern­ment's main gauge of future economic activity turned down sharply last month after 18 con­secutive increases, signaling slower growth but no recession, economists said yesterday. 
The Commerce Department reported that its Index ofLeading In­dicators dropped 1.1 percent in March, ending the longest string of advances for the index since the end ofWorld War II. 
The &agan administration sought to minimize the significance of the decline, blaming much of it on bad weather. 
While no one believed that the steep drop signaled a recession, all analysts said it was further proofthat the nation will see much slower economic growth for the rest of the year. 
The decline was the first since a small 0.1 percent drop in August 1982. Since that time, the index made solid advances as the country pulled out ofthe 1981-82 recession. 
The March decline was not unex­pected because ofa string ofreports indicating much weaker business ac­tivity during the month. Housing construction posted the steepest decline on record, unemployment failed to show improvement for the firt time in six months and retail sales were down sharply. 
In addition, the government 
reported Monday that sales of new 
single-family homes were down 4.9 
percent in March. 
Commerce Secretary Malcolm , Baldrige said the March setback for 
leading indicators "exaggerates the 
extent of the slowdown in 
'economic growth." 
He said the decline was ag­
gravated by unusually bad weather 
during the month and that a better 
measure of the economy was ob­
tained by looking at the Q5 percent 
average increase in the past six 
months. He said this reflected the 
more moderate growth which is ex­
pected in coming months. 
"An occasional dip in the leading 
index is normal at this stage of the 
economic expansion," he said. 
Private economists agreed. 
"I don't think one negative leading indicator in the past 19 months indicates we are plunging back into a recession," said Robert Wescott of Wharton Econometrics. 

Wescott forecast eonomic growth at a rate of 3.7 percent from April through June, compared to an 8.3 percent pace in the first three months of the year. 
Gordon Richards, of the National Assocation of Manufacturers, said the index "points to the emergence of a major slowdown during the lat­ter part of 1984" of 3 percent growth in the third quarter. 
Jack Carlson, of the National As­sociation of Realtors, said the decline in the indicators should "allow some softening of interest rates in the months ahead" as fears in markets of an overheated economy begin to subside. 
Hart 
continuedfrom page 1 
ment there isn't a lot of rank-and-file support for Gary Hart." 
David Tierney, who opened his home for an overnight stay in 1980 to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., when he campaigned in Anderson, presented Hart with a blue and gold UAW cap. Hart slipped it on and just as quickly slipped it off. 

Chris Sheets, a Middletown housewife, brought her two children to the airport where she first saw Bobby Kennedy in 1968. Mrs. Sheets said she supports Hart "because he looks to the future. He's not in the past like I feel some ofthe other candidates are. I feel like he's for the people and not the corpora­tions. I'm sick ofthe president being for corporations. The little guy is the one that counts as far as I'm con­cerned." 

Refugees . 
· Salvadoran peasants sit'toget/;Jer.·Q/tff t'-!e:Y. t:ft;nved in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, Saturday seeking refuge 
-
... ... ..." ....~,. . . 

The Observer Tuesday, May 1, 1984 -page 6 
Supreme Court gives more power to appeals courts in cases of libel 
Associated Pres.'i 
WASIIIN<iTON -The: Supreme: Court, in a decision that could save:: nt·ws organizations millions of dol­lars anually, rulc::d yc:stt·rday that ap­pc;tls courts have broad power to sn:ond-guess trial courts in libc::l 
The 6-~ ruling, grn·tc::d with a sigh of rdid by news media rcprt·~entativt·s. killed a Sll0,1)0<; award to a stert·o loudspeaker manulitnurt-r that had sued Con· sumcr lkports magazint·. 
"Tiw rt·quiremc:n of indt•pt·ndc:nt appdlate rt·vkw ... rdkcts a deeply hdd conviction that judges -and particularly members of this court -must t·xt·rdse sud1 review in or­der to preserve:: the precious liberties t·stahlished and ordained by the Constitution," Justice:: John Paul Stevens wrote:: for the court. 
Tht· I.ihd I>c:fc::nse Resource:: Cc:n· tcr, a New York City research group supported by news organizations, said in a rt·cc::ntly released study that tht· avc:ragt· award in BO libel and privacy cases from 19BO to 19B~ was $2.2 million. But the study showed that on appeal, about BO percent of the awards were thrown out or sharply reduced. 
Bruce: Sanford, a Washington lawyer for the Society of Profes­sional Journalists. Sigma Delta Chi, praiSl·d Monday's ruling. 
"Tht· Supreme Court has affirmed resoundingly the critical need for cool, dispassionate appellate scrutiny of jury verdkts against the press," ht· said. "In an era of punish­ing libd mt·ga-verdi<:ts, the decision 
will  have  pra(.·tical  and  salutary  
bt·ndlts."  
In  other  actions  Monday,  tht·  
court:  

LaFortune 
continuedfrom page I 
<:ussnl. But tht·sc arc: subject, as are all of the points in the submitted plan, to approval hy tht· Officers of the llnivasity. 
McDonnell said, "S<1rnc: of the: Committee's reccomendations can ht· implc:mt·ntcd immc:diatdy .... Nirwty percent of the work needed for an tlmkrgraduatc ()ub in the: ballroom t·ould he done ratht·r quickly." 
Although Tyson said, "cost has heen a barril'r," McDonndl said, "if it is really a priority, if Notre: Dame n·ally wants to do it. it can do it." Tom MccAffery, one of the students on the: LaFortune Renovation <bm­mittt-c:, also believes this. lie said, "I think ifthe University was serious on making a committmc:nt it would get done:. If tht·y arc serious on provid­ing an alternative: to alcohol abuse they would renovate LaFortune:." 
Mike: <)uinn, a student on the (.·ommittt·c:, said, "I would bt· suprist·d if some of it dot·sn't gt·t done this summt·r ht-causc of the al­cohol policy. It is a must, a rcquirt·­ment to providt· an altt·rnative to our cun·nt so.:iallift-." 
A.I.S. Shipping and Packaging 

You wrap or we wrap 3617 Mishawaka Ave. Mishawaka at Logan Mon. -Fri. 8:30-5:00 We Ship Exclusively UPS 
•Cleared 
the:: way for political ac· tion committees to spend unlimited sums in this year's presidential cam­paign. The justices, reviewing the issut· for future ekctions, refused to spt·ed up deliberations, thus giving nmservativc: PACs the green light to proceed with plans to spend as much as S20 million to help re-del'l Prt·sident &agan. 

•Agreed 
to hear government and chemical industry appeals aimed at permitting the Environmental I~rotcction Agt·ncy to ease regula­tions for some companies that dis­charge toxic wastt·s into sewage: systems. 

•Rukd 
unanimously it is illegal to st·nd FBI or Secret Service agents on a wild goose chase by Idling them ~ phony story. Tht· decision apparent ly reinstated an indi<:tment against • Kansas City man who concoctet tales to get agents to seck hi~ estranged wife. 


In past decisions, the Supreme Court has said public officials and public figures who sue for libel must prove that the alkgedly libelous statement was false and wa~ made with "actual malice" with knowledge or reckless disregard that it was false. 
The case decided Monday arose when Consumer Reports, a monthly magazine published by the Con­sumers Union of the United States, evaluated 24 loudspeakers in a May 1970 article. The report said that sounds from a Bose Corp. speaker "tended to wander about the room." 
The Ist Circuit Court of Appeals, throwing out the award, said the magazine was "guilty of using im­precise language:" but did not act out of "actual malice." The: Supreme Court agreed. 
Tyson said, ··1 think some im­provements that don't require struc­tural work could be done this summer." 
The plan, which could be altered considerably by the University's Of­ficers, calls for quite: a few changes to LaFortune. It suggests a "student media center" to he developed on the top floor, to include WSND, The Obsen,er, and Scholastic. The Dome and thc:juggler would be:: housed on dthc:r the: top floor or the I. S tloor. 
The: Sl'Cond floor would contain all of the student government offices, the Student Activities Board, and student clubs. A "commercial zone" is proposed for the basement. The: proposed businesses would in­dude a flower shop, the computer shop, a hair stylist, the travel bureau, the: record store: and ticket office, and other small husinc:sscs. A 

Soviet President Konstantin Chernenko, right, said Chernenko told the workers to improve the speaks with workers at Moscow's Hammer and Sickle economy by introducing more modern technology Metal Works Sunday. The official news agency Tass and saving energy. 
Former Nazi victims finalize plans for Holocaust Memorial Museum 
nual Days of Remembrance for the 6 million Jews and countless other European minorities slaughtered and persecuted under Adolf Hitler. 
"Ifyou remember, you shall Jive," said Elic Wiesel, who survived Auschwitz and came to America to write:, teach, campaign for human rights and become chairman of the 
U.S. H9locaust Memorial Council. 

Wiesel told Vice President George Bush and more than 400 people at a noontime commemora­tion in the Capitol Rotunda that memories of the death camps provide lessons for now and wrnings for the future. 
"The world unleashed madness more than 40 years ago, and that madness is still dominating the minds and souls of too many countries," said Wiesel. 
Correction 

Because ofa reporting error in yesterday's Observer the winners ofthe women's chariot race were not mentioned. Lewis Hall claimed first place for the second year in a row. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Survivors of Nazi horrors gathered in a dreary rain yesterday to begin transforming two death camp-like buildings into a 
U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum that will show "the dark side of human civilization." 
The symbolic ground-breaking for the S l 00 million, privately financed museum ncar the Washing­ton Monument was a focus ofthe an-
laundromat like the one in Badin is also proposed for the basement. 
A pizzeria/sandwich shop is proposed for the:: second floor. The ballroom is being considered for conversion into an undergraduate club. A game room and a lounge also arc being proposed for the second floor, as is a cable or satellite large­screen TV. A bowling alley is sug­gested for the the eastern corner of the basement. Increased food services, including a performing area in or around the Huddle which could he used for the Nazz, and in­creased seating for the Huddle are in the proposal. A late night student snack area ncar the main lounge, possibly in the present ticket office, is also proposed. 
The plans would also make the: building more accessible to the handicapped hy adding an elevator. 
TRUCK LEASING, INC. 710 N. Niles Ave. South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-5871 
c 

0 
.HEBTZ 
N _p_ENSKEG R ONEWA 
JBUCKS
A T 

u 
Special Discounts for N.D. and SMC Students 
Must book 7-10 days in advance L $100 DEPOSIT REQUIRED 
A 

TIONS CLASS OF '84 
"No cause is more noble, no en­deavor more sacred," he said, than to offer future visitors a graphic portrait not only of"the: inhumanity of the killer but also the humanity of his victims." 
Wiesel and other survivors arc raising funds to create a memorial il­lustrating the horrors ofgenoidc and the daily lives ofdeath camp victims. There also will be computerized ar­chives of Nazi extermination records seized by the: lhited States after World War II. 
Seen by Wiesel as a "magnet for all who visit Washington," the museum will be housed in two century-old buildings, donated by the US. government, that have served federal agencies in the: past as auditors' offices, warehouses, stables and a fish hatchery. 

SUMMER STORAGE 683-1959  


ARE YOUR COLLEGE FINANCES IN CRmCAL CONDITION? 
Joining the Army Reserve can reduce your college costs. Ifyou qualify, our Educational Assistance program will pay up to $1,000 a year of your tuition for four years. 
Ifyou have taken out a National Direct of Guaranteed Student Loan since October 1, 1975, our Loan Forgiveness program will r~pav_15 oercent ofyour debt (up to $10,000) or $500, whichever is greater, for each year you serve. Ifyou'd like to find out more about how a Reserve enlistment can help pay for college, call the number below. Or stop by. 
SGT. Messner 234-4187 Call Collect 
ARMYRESERVE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
--------------------------------" 
Viewe_o_i_n_t_________ ay.._,M.... -..... ......
Tu_esd..... ay-1,1_984_ p..._.age7 
·-·­

The ROTC, just war theory: At peace at Notre Dame? 
Editor's note: The following is the first ofa bat, springs from the same sentiment as two-part series on the Reseroe Officer Train­Augustine's, it should be given particular at­ing Corpsprogram at Notre Dame. tention in considering the moral obligations 
When Sant Augustine wrote to Publicola, ofCatholic military officers. "Do not think that it is impossible for anyone The Second Vatican Council did just that to please God while engaged in active military when, in the strongest terms found in those service," he was suggesting to Christians that documents, it declared that "any act of war taking another's life is not automatical(v sin­aimed indiscriminately at the destruction of ful. entire cities along with their population is a 
To a people whose Master instructed them crime against God and humanity. to "love your enemies, do good to those who It merits unequivocal and unhesitating con­hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for demnation" (Gaudium et spes, paragraph those who treat you badly" (Luke 6:27-28) 79). It also insisted that "actions which con­
flict with these same principles, as well as or­
ders commanding such actions, are criminal.
Michael Baxter 
Blind obedience cannot excuse those who 
yield to them."
Guest column Viewed in this light, the issue of having iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii R.O.T.C. on Notre Dame's campus depends on such a suggestion must have been startling. the ability of the program to produce future But, recognizing the human propensity for officers who are willing to participate only in violence, Augustine thought it wise to make military actions that are just and who aren't accommodation for circumstances (namely, willing to collaborate in actions that are not defense of the innocent against murderous ag­just. gressors) in which lethal force might be jus­Notre Dame officers must be ready, tified. therefore, to challenge strategic plans that in­
Out of this reasonable, though not volve inflicting harm on noncombatants, and indisputable, moral provision has come the they mus.t be willing to go so far as insubor­"just war" tradition. The Catholic community dination to do it. They must be willing openly endorses it as one of two perspectives Chris­to criticize, for example, a command policy tians may adopt in taking up their vocation of intended to cripple the adversary's industrial peacemaking -a vocation which the U.S. bis­capacity and to demoralize the enemy popula­hops, in their pastoral letter on war and peace, tion -policies such as the Alliedobliteration call "a requirement ofour faith." bombing strategy ofWorld War II. 
This perspective is probably a more useful They must be willing to refuse combat as­
approach to the issue ofthe moral legitimacy signments in wars such as the Vietnam War, 
of R.O.T.C. on Catholic campuses than is its which U.S. bishops had judged to be unjust by 
alternative -pacifism. In this and the follow­1971. And it is entirely reasonable, on this 
ilg article, I want to suggest that just war et­score, to expect that Notre Dame officers 
hics can, and should, be more fully integrated would never contribute to military policies 
into the RO.T.C. program at Notre Dame. involving the use of nuclear weapons, such as 
Pacifists often urge the university to live out working in nuclear ·missile silos or designing its peacemaking vocation more radically,' weaponry with first-strike capability. more prophetically. But, at the risk of sound­In concluding their pastoral letter, the ing overly pragmatic, I don't think that is American bishops recognized that Catholics going to happen right away. Moreover, in military service "carry special respon­pacifists tend to sell the just war tradition sibilities" (paragraph 309) concerning short. peacemaking. The responsibility is awesome. 
But, if taken seriously and applied practical­Waging war efficiently is a prodigious en­ly, just war theory could mold Notre Dame terprise. Waging war justly is a more difficult, students in R.O.T.C. into honest, effective, yet far nobler task. The Christian community, even radical peacemakers; and in ways that which tries not to recoil from difficult, noble 
pacifists, because of their refusal to engage tasks, asks much of those entrusted with 
any foe in combat, find morally inaccessible. military service. It asks no less than for officers 
After all, students enrolled in R.O.T.C. are like­to put the lives of the innocent before their 
ly to find themselves in a position to do exact­own. 
ly what their Christian community calls them As Michael Walzer puts it in]itst and Unjust 
to do: to protect the lives of the innocent Wars, (a defense of the principle of dis­
again.:.t violence. crimination which should be required 
Indeed. the most frequent justillcation reading for all R.O.T.C. students at Notre given for the presence of RO.T.C. on Catholic Dame), "The rule is absolute: self­campuses is that it is far better to let officers preservation in the face ofthe enemy is not an schooled in Catholic morality •lead the excuse for violations of rules ofwar. Soldiers, 
military than it is to let people who consider it might be said, stand to civilians like the crew 
themselves free of moral restraints monopo­of a liner to its passengers. They must risk 
lize the job. their lives for the sake of the others." (page 
Just war ethics is a set of principles 305). designed to guide such restraint. The prin­The Church shares this wisdom and wishes ciples are of roughly two types: those to pass it on to the officers-to-be at Notre limiting the right of a nation to go to war,jus Dame. ad bellum. and those defining the proper con­As a people, we believe that those who kill duct within a war,jus in bello. the innocent suffer a death more grievous 
Even though future officers at Notre Dame than that of their victims. The love shown to 
will have little control over the decisions that us by our Master enables us to be this kind of 
send the United States to war, they will have people and calls us to mold this kind ofofficer. 
some authority over specific military policies The question of the moral legitimacy of 
within a war waged by the US. R.O.T.C. must be taken up with this Christian 
Thus, the principles of proper conduct perspective in mind. The question turns on 
within a war are most relevant. Of these, the how well the R.O.T.C. programs at Notre 
principle ofproportionality, which forbids ac­Dame can train officers to protect the lives of 
tions that result in more evil than the good the innocent, even when that might run con­
they seek to achieve, is an especially murky trary to the policies of the military organiza­
area for just war ethics (Cf. "The Pastoral Let­tion in which they serve. 
ters on War and Peace." paragraphs 101-102). Michael Baxter, a professed seminarian in 
The principle of discrimination, however, the Congregation of Holy Cross, teaches remains quite clear. Since its purpose, religion at Casa Santa Cruz High School in preserving civilians from the tyranny of com-Phoenix, Ariz. 

P. 0. BoxQ 
lege that laboratory supplies were used for private gain. The charges are too absurd to
Rector responds 

merit point by point refutation, but the overall content ofthe article is so hurtful as to require DearEditor: a reply from those who have kriown her for 
In response to "Rector Bans Banners" in the many years. April 30 Obseroer, I would like to correct an The Radiaton Laboratory enjoys good inter­unjust accusation. relationships among its members, both scien­
Though I do not believe students have a tillc and technical, without which it could not right to use University-owned sheets to ad­function well. Since coming to Notre Dame, vertise (there are always the "Personals"), and Mrs. Schuler has given freely of her time and do not think students have a right to litter the resources in efforts designed to foster and walls of the buildings, I did not initially forbid complement such relationships. banners. She has assisted those arriving from abroad 
The first banner on St. Ed's was "Bend Over to settle in and to deal with the problems of NO." This is insulting to all those who care unfamiliar surroundings. Along with other about Notre Dame and alienates many who members' wives, she has spend countless might be sensitive to students' needs. As a hours providing activities for all personnel of punishment the individuals were told to take the laboratory -yearly picnics and Christmas down their banner and since they had insulted parties for the laboratory personnel and for both our hall and our school, they were not their children. 
allowed to put up another banner. All these efforts have been directed to the 
The second banner advertised "Coke is it in benefit of the laboratory and the University; '84-'85." Despite the double entendre, I Mrs. Schuler has received only the satisfaction allowed it to stay-. ofhelping others and serving the University. 
The morning after the Student Body Vice As an example of the distortions in the ar­President told hall members that banners ticle, one might note that the statement "she should not center on alcohol and should be uses lab money for luncheons" could only more responsible, a banner appeared on St. refer to a recent working lunch for external Ed's saying "Our Father Who art in Heaven, members of a University laboratory review Give us our 7 & 7." committee -a luncheon which she or­
I then banned banners on St. Ed's because I ganized and served alone. Such an activity do not intend going out every morning check­looks rather different in its proper context. ing to see which is offensive and which is not Your motives for publishing such an article -and a parody of the Lord's Prayer I find of­without due consideration, and for inflicting fensive. such damage on a person's reputation, remain 
As a member of the CLC I will work toward unclear. You can win no laurels for such changes in the Directive Draft (changes that things. the Dean of Students has admitted are nego­Richard W. Fessenden & Larry K. Patterson tiable). As rector of St. Ed's Hall I will not al­Radiation Laboratory low anything that degrades both this hall and this University. 
I think I have the support ofthe residents of this hall in this matter. After all, there were only 32 out ofa possible 183 signatures. 
(Rev.) MarioPedi, O.S.B. RectorSt. Edward's Hall 

Have you read something In The Observer youdidn't quite agree with? Ifso, write a letter to the editor. Letters to the editor must be well­
Schuler mistreated 

written and typed. They must also bear the address, telephone number and signature of DearEditor: 
the author (initials and pseudonyms are not On April 17, the Observer reported a poten­
acceptable). Material shorter than 200 words 
tiallawsuit by a former secretary in the Radia­
will receitJe priority. All letters are subject to 
editing and become the property of The Ob-beyond the issues of the case to include 
tion Laboratory, but extended coverage well 
server. material which impugns the reputation of Florence Schuler, wife of the Director. 
This material can only be interpreted to al-

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller ................ Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor . ....... Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editoriafti represent the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  

Sports Briefs 
Pneumothorax defeated Last Shot 21-16 
to win the Women's Bookstore Basketball title this weekend. 
Gretchen Meyer, Annie Day, Missy Van Ort and Beth Kreber ofSaint 
Mary's and Cathy Flick of Notre Dame composed the. team of 
Pneumothorax. while Last Shot consisted of Notre Dame's Jenny 
Klauke. Mary Joan Forbes, Claire Welsh, Kathy Immonen and Raili Tikka. Pneumothorax won the title after placingsecond in last year's tourney. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame Women's track and field team tlnished its season Saturday at the Indiana State Track and Field Meet held at St. Joseph's College in Rennsalaer, Ind. The Irish rook sixth place in the meet against varsity teams from around the state. Senior Rose Marie Luking finished second in the 1500m run ( 4:51.7) and fourth in the :WOOm run ( IO:'i~ ). Luking also anchored the relay team to a third place finish, and was voted Notre Dame's Outstand­ing Senior Athlete for the 1984 season. The sixth place finish was Notre Dame's best ever since the meet began three years ago. -the 
Obsen'er 

The An Tostal GolfTournamentchampions were the groups of Rader-Curiff and Klinge-Kansello with im­pressive S<.·ores of -~7. Joe M<.·Carthy won the longest drive contest with a bla~t of 235 yards while Jay Gentle earned the coveted Hoosier Award with a shortest drive distance of 25 yards. Finally, winner in the Closest to the Pin contest was Father Jim Rogers. 
The Obseroer 

There will be a meetingfor all interested in start­ing a table tennis club in the fall. The meeting will be in the LaFortune Little Theater, Thursday, May 3 at 4:30 p.m. For more information, cal Ted Pfarrer at 1988. -The Obseroer 
The Marketing Club GolfTourneywm be held Friday, May 4, on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Signups for tee times will be held in 255 Hayes-Healy until tomorrow. Entrants will have a choice to play in the 4-man bestball or 4-man scramble. Prizes will be awarded in both divisions. A 52.50 green fee will be charged. For more information, call Don at 1684. -The Obseroer 
Tuesday, May 1, 1984 -page 8 
McCann named wrestling coach 
Fran McCann, wrestling coach the past eight years at Indiana State Uni­versity, has been named head coach ofthe Notre Dame wrestling team. 
McCann, 44, has produced an im­pressive 76-48-3 dual record since taking over the Sycamore program in 1976. Three of his last four teams finished among the nation'~ Top 20, including the 1982 squad which 
ended up  15-1  in dual  meets and  
took  seventh  place  in  the  NCAA  
Tournament.  

McCann takes over for Brother Joseph Bruno, C.S.C., who had been the Irish head coach the last four seasons. Assistant coach Toth-Fejel handled the squad on an interim bases the last half of the '84 cam­paign. 
"Fran McCann is responsible for the national recognition Indiana State has gained the last few years," said Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Corrigan in a statement released yesterday. "We're hopeful he can do the same thing for Notre Dame. 
"Indiana State gained everyone's respect at the NCAA level because of what it accomplished while Fran was there," Corrigan said. "We're awfully excited to have someone of his caliber to handle our program." 
Among the six Division I All­Americans coached by McCann was Bruce Baumgartner, the '82 NCAA heavyweight champion. Baum­gartner was a three-time All­American, an NCAA Top Five choice for his academic achievements and is considered a strong possibility for the gold medal in the '84 Olympics this summer in Los Angeles. 
McCann takes over a Notre Dame program that is coming off three consecutive winning seasons, including 15-2-1 and 18-2 marks in '82 and '83. 
A Chicago native, McCann previously was head coach at Winona State, where he compiled a 37-8-1 record beginning in 1970. He was '70 NAJA Coach ofthe Year after helping Winona State to a second­place finish in the NAJA tournament that season. 
A standout wrestler at Oklahoma State and Iowa, McCann t1nished third in the NCAA meet in '6.2 at I I 5 pounds while wrestling for the Haw­keyes. He graduated from Oklahoma State in '65 and spent a year at both Oklahoma State and St. Cloud State as an assistant before earning his Master's degree in '67 at St. Cloud State. McCann then was an assistant for two seasons at Winona State before becoming head coach. 
Lax 
continuedfrom page 12 
State goal. As if eight seconds was not quick enough, Franklin scored again just seven seconds after his first goal. 
Ohio State never recovered from the sudden outburst as the Irish added three more goals by the end of the quarter. Meanwhile, Notre Dame goalie Rob Simpson was keeping the Buckeyes from cutting into the lead. Simpson turned away 12 OSU shots before sitting down af­ter the first half, improving his save percentage to 70 percent. 
By the time the teams reached halftime, Notre Dame held an insur­
and both teams scored twice in the 
final quarter as O'Leary experi­
mented with different lineups. 

Once again, Trocchi and Franklin led the Notre Dame offense. Trocchi scored three goals and assisted on two others to improve his sea~on to­tals to 3 3 goals and 12 assists. Franklin, who has come on strong during the winning streak, scored four times. 
Pearsall, Grote, and Tony Rettino each contributed two goals to the cause, while Don Gayhardt added two assists. 
On the defensive end, Pat Poletti and Brian McKeon split time in the second half, picking up seven and two saves, respectively, after Simpson played the entire first half. 

mountable nine-goal lead on goals by Tom Grote, Trocchi, and Dwayne Hicks. 
It was not much different in the second half, either. Steve Pearsall and Franklin scored early in the third quarter to push the lead to 1 I­0 before O'Leary began substituting freely. 
The Buckeyes fmally erased the 0 from the scoreboard when the Irish failed to clear the ball from their end, allowing Ohio State to get a man open near the goal. 
Thirty seconds later, the Buckeyes cut the margin to I 1-2 witt) a Notre Dame player in the penalty box, but that was as close as they could get. The Irish answered with two more goals in the quarter, 
The observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­~~.Y though Friday. DeadliRe for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifteds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac·
Classifieds 
ters erda . 

NOTICES  FOR RENT  needed: 1 rider to out West. Going to Casper. Wyo., but can drop off in Cheyenne if going to Denver. Leaving May 15. Call Margie 4416.  PERSONALS  OCEAN CITY live and play under the Jer· sey sun. Call Tom at t 201 BIG BROTHERS/BIG SISTERS----·----..  Need male room mate at Castle Pt. next year. Call Man-t213 Theo Marors and all other Interested stu­ 
COMPIJTERIZED TYPING SERVICE -2n-6045. W/p1ck up & deliver EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. THESES, TERM PAPERS, ETC. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009  FOR RENT; SUMMER SUB-LETTING FOR TURTLE CREEK APT. NEGO­TIABLE RATE II CALL 277-8497  Aide needed to SEATTLE or WASHING­TON, May 13-15, Jim -t605 FOR SALE  Wondering what you're going to do during all those DRY evenings next year when you aren't busy studying for those MANDATORY FINAL EX· AMS? Put a little excitement back In­ ··-··· Last activity of the year: Dinner at Show Biz Pizza this Thursday evening-­Free pizza, soda, and v1deo games. CALL JOHN AT 18021F INTERESTED I can give no reason. I have run out of eXCuses. I'm GUllTY. guilty of loving you:·  dents: you are urged to attend a meet1ng with Richard McBrien, Chairman of the Theology Department. on Thursday, May 3 at 4:15 P.M. in room 341 O'Shaughnessy. The purpose of the meeting is to discuss the program for mators in Theology and undergraduate theology in general.  
to your nightlife. Join The Observer  Only one thing can make me forget:  
GET TOP$$$ FOR YOUR TEXTSIII Buy Back Paperbacks. Monarch ~nd Cliff Notes Mon thru Fri. I -4 p.m. PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 S.BEND AVE. LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL COURT 4B. GOLD CHAIN WITH NOTRE DAME INTRAMURAL MEDAL (SMALL REC· TANGLE) MEDAL HAS ONLY SEN· TAMENTAL VALUE (AWARDED TO FATHER IN 1944). KEEP CHAIN BUT PLEASE RETURN MEDAL CALL PAUL 272 0746 OR ANN-MARIE 284 5087. FOUND A contact case was lound 1n the Eng~neer~ng Audlfor~um before Easter break It IS blue and wh•te and was turned 1n alter the tt.OO show1ng ol Everything You Wanted Ia Know About Sex. Please contact V1nce Pryor at the Student Un1on 11 you lost them. 239· 7757 LOST. WOMANS GOLD OVAL·FACED WATCH WED MOST LIKELY ON THE NORTH QUAD IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL LISA 6997 LOST-GREEN USMC/ARMY FIELD  WANTED PHOENIX BOUND, BUT I NEED A PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL . AUGUST tl ANY SUGGESTIONS OR OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239­5313 OR 277-4851 GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED CALL PAUL AT 239-5313 or 277-4851. GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559 $50,553/yr. Now hiring. Your area. Call 1·605·687·6000, Ext R·9834 WANT TO SUMMER IN SOUTH BEND? We need care lor house. lawn and two children, ages 1 0 & t 2 Approx 9 10 4, M· F. from 6/11 thru 8/31 (fleXIble) In­terested Coeds w1th cars call Peg or J1m. evenings, 288-2449 MUSICIANS "THE LAW" ND'a Holteat Party Band Is looking for a talented baas player for the 1984-85 year. Cal/283-3280 lor on audition. Need a HOUSESITTER for the summer? Call Kay or Tr~cia, 233-9764.  BARGAIN: ENGAGEMENT AND WED­DING RING FOR SALE Contact Garry Rush, 239-7735 Free Spirit tO·speed (excel.cond.) $75 -call Barry 6620. FOR SALE: Stereo. Price negotiable Call Vince aJ 283-3129 FOR SALE: 2 COUCHES, BAR STOOL, RUG, BAR(REAL CHEAP!) EVERY· THING MUST GO! SOLD TO THE HIG· HEST BIDDER, OR FIRST COME FIRST SERVED! CALL JEFF AT 8854 NOW! LOVESEAT AND ARMCHAIR FOR SALE;GOOD CONDITJON:CALL EMILE X3770 MAXELL XL 2 90's $2.50 each. MEAKS t2n·3306 FOR SALE TWO BED LOFT WITH BAR· LIKE STRUCTURE" CALL 2737 I TICKETS need 2 graduauon JIX. 232·6085 $$$Need 2 commence. fix. Call Dan 267· 6273. NEED GRAD TICS.$$$$. CALL 1610.  Production Department. We are cur· rently looking for layout personnel for next semester. If you hurry, you may In fact be one of those chosen few. No experience is necessary, but look favorably upon those who display en­thusiasm and a sense of humor. Learn the tricks of the newspaper trade In just two hours a week. Quick· 'ly climb your way to a prestigious paying position. Sign up with a friend: you can work together. For more Information on this fantastic yet limited offer, stop by the LaFor· tune office this week. Questions? Call Margaret at 239-5303. We're waiting to hear from you ... ................................................................ $$$$$$Beat the rushl! Sell your used textbook now!! Book buying hours Mon· Thur 1·4pm only. Pandora Books 937 South Bend Ave. siioRrs AND. siiAoEs.siioRrs AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES Shorta and Shades is comingllll May 5, Howard Hall Shorts and Shades Party. Be lherel! SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHO~TS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES  RED REDWINE Stay close to me. Don't let me be alone. If's tearing apart My blue heart." -UB40 HEY HEY HEY .... ALL YOU UGLY. PIMPLE FACED GUYS? IF YOU HAVEN'T GOT KISSED AT ALL THIS YEAR, THIS IS YOUR BIG CHANCEl!! TODAY IS MARY DESMOND'S BIRTHDAY AND SHE IS LOOKING FOR· WARD TO MASHING IT UP WITH THE GUYS. SO BE AT BRIDGET$ TONITE AND BRING YOUR LIPS. WHY DO YOU HURRY HURRY ·SO SMEGMOND? YOU ALREADY GOT THE BIG 5-0! HAPPY 2t st... YOUR CARD PARTNERS. TO BRIDGET SLY. A GREAT A.A. GOOD LUCK ON YOUR CPA! THERE,SLY.YOU GOT A PERSONAL ALL TO YOURSELF! FROM 1 NORTH ATTENTION ACCOUNTING SOPHO· MORES PAID POSITION open lor AS­SISTANT STUDENT LOAN ADMINISTRATOR For !he Morrissey Loan Fund Call Andy at 1221 or Erin at 1992 for further 1nlormat1on BEFORE FRI 5/4  WANTED: A Collegiate Jazz Festival T­ahlrt. Call Jim ·1605 MY DEAREST HONEY· I LOVE YOU MORE THAN WORDS CAN EXPRESS. THANKS FOR THE BEST BIRTHDAY EVER II! YOUR LIL' PUMPKIN I AMAZON WOMAN · Why IS your lace so orange? Is it because freshman score more often in your room than 1n Notre Dame Stadium? Anti-Celluloid LOST. Pearl Necklace somewhere be· tween Stepan field and Farley on Sat. Of great sentimental value-reward offered Call3560 TO THE GUYS FROM FLANNER WHO HAVE THE BED FRAMES OF THE GIRLS FROM 3RD FLOOR FARLEY· PLEASE RETURN THEM BY FRIDAY OR YOU WILL BE FINED! CALL 3560 HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY EMILY! YOU'RE THE GREATEST-HAVE A GOOD ONE! LOVE. MARY Start spreading the news--Tom Antomn1 1s21 today!!! Have a great one Tom I Love Susie To the muddy girls who we took a picture with by Slepan Center. g1ve us a call (8274 or 8267) please! Thanks, the Three Guys from Howard. P S. Remember the party thiS Satur· ~ay.  
JACKET-Dad has 1/veatened my ex1sf· ence if I can't f1nd it lflound· PETE 3165. KEYS FOUND IN NIEUWLAND LADIES' ROOM SAT NIGHT CALL ANN 284· ~1?9  NEED 1 GRADUATION TICKET!$$! CALL RICH AT 234·6496 DRY CAMPUS! avo1d the new pohcy · MOVE O.C. need 2 female ROOMMATES .. campus view--next year please call Kr1s or Jayne 284·4373/4367  NEED MANY GRAD TIXI $$$ CALL KURT AT 234·2252 NEED 4 GRAD TICKETS. WILL PAY WHATEVER. CALL RICH AT 288-7446 5-11 PM.  DRY LAND 1n s1ght 1111!11 ····························································· Christina Weinmann Christina Weinmann Christina Weinmann Where are you? Ex. for a week!  SYD IS COMING !Ill! SYD IS COMING!!!!! SPONSORED BY MOCK CONVENTION ASSOCJATES,JNC. fST ANNUAL SCREW YOUR DELEGATE PARTY FRIDAY. MAY 4 9PM-2AM THE LAST BIG BLOWOUT BEFORE FINALS SEMI· FORMAL D.J. $5-COUPLE OR $3­ Come celebrate spring. Show off your sunburn at lhe Howard Hall Shorts and Shades Party! This Saturday. WEDDING BELLS ARE RINGING FOR JOEY & MAXI CONGRATULATIONS  
LOST. Pearl Necklace somewhere be· lween Stepan l1eld and Farley on Sat. Of great sentimental value-reward offered Call3560 LOST BLUE NO WALLET WITH 10 AND BANK CARD. PLEASE CALL 3706  NEEDED: One more roommate (female) lor a 4­peroon •pertment at C•mpua VIew. can M8rfpat at 7&n or 239-7471. TO MPLS LOTS OF ROOM LV'ing 14th 277·6398  HELP!!My 87 year old wonderful grandfather, who only finished 6th grade and helped me get through NO, would love to aHend my graduaion with his new w1fe. I didn't win the loHery and really need 2 tix together. please call x2706  SUMMER is almost here and soon you will be going home. Some of us are not so fortunate. Some of us will be spending our summer in sunny South Bend. And as if thai weren't reason enough to take pity on me, I don't have a car with whiCh to escape the confines ofthis fair city. to take me to work, or even to go to the grocery  PERSON PASQUERILLA EAST PARTY ROOM CALL TOM 277-4283 OR BRIDGET 284·5172 DONT MISS OUT ON AN INTOXICATING EVENING!!! SYD IS COMIND!II!! SYD !SCOMING!!I!! HAPPY B.DAY JOE BASQUE! Don't  LOVE KATH & CAROLA RAMU.CPA 1751 YOU WILL SUCCEED LOV£. KATH. CAROLA, THERESE & THERESA BILL MERTKA FOR SENIOR CLASS HUNK.  
LOST: MY OBNOXIOUS PER· SONALITY. IF FOUND RETURN IM­MEDIATELY. call Joe Basque  DESPERATELY NEED CALL KAREN AT 1365.  2  GRAD  TIX.  WILL TRADE HOTEL RES. GRAD. TIX. CALL 232-3582  FOR  1  store. Perhaps you have a car that you do not want to bring home because it is too far, too much trouble, etc. Or perhaps you would like to leave your car here because  deny this momentuous occassion; aforce bigger than any of us lei us in on the secret. Anyone who wants to give Joe a b.day kiss should see Joe at 2t 1 Sarin. II  PAULMCGINNisupsetthathedidn'lwln the ugly man on campus award. II you  
LOST: Lad1es Gold T1mttx Quartz watch wnh brown band al AnT ostal mudp1ts on Sat. April28. Please call Kathy at 6663  HELP! DESPERATELY NEED GRADUATION TICKETS! Call Heather at 288-3511  NEED GRAD TIX$$$ ·1965 Need grad ticket Big $$ Talk to me before you sell to anyone else Mike 7638  this sad tale has moved you to tears. If you do have a car that you want taken care of for the summer by a very reliable person, call Sarah at t311. Please.  you'd rather not, then don't worry. he sympathize with him, send your lax de· probably won't care. love, some chicks ductible donalions to REAM ROPER. PO with crushes on you·p~ &de~ Of!JS o.ta:nl!l" • • ll@)( Q, Notre•O..me. JN465B6• • .. • • • to give you a HUGE kiss  

The Observer Tuesday, May 1, 1984 -page 9 
Don't close your 
account at the Notre 
Dame Credit Union 
over the summer. 
There are ways for 
you to use your NDCU 
account wherever 
you go, whatever 
you're doing. 

• 
MAKE DEPOSITS 

• 
MAKE WITHDRAWALS 

• 
VERIFY BALANCES 


How do I Make Deposits? 

-By mail. (Be sure to pick up envelopes) • -Payroll deduction/net pay. Your summer employer may be able to send your check (or a portion) to us-automatically. -Wire service. Have a hometown financial insti­tution send it to your account directly. 
How do I Make Withdrawals? 

-Use your EXCHANGE card. It is part of a nation­
----------------~------------1 
wide. 24-hour network. Call 1-800-237-ATMS
I , I 
for locations.l CHANGE OF ADDRESS FORM l -Cash a share draft (check). -Wire money from your NDCU account to a spec-
Name ified financial institution. -A cashie~·s check made out in your name can beI mailed to the address listed on your account. 
II II 
J 
Current address 

How do I Verify My Balances? \ City State __Zip I 
-Balance inquiry on E::<CHANGE machine. -Monthly statements (make sure we have your
Please change my address from to
II 1 summer address). 
DATE DATE 
1 -Request a receipt when mailing us your deposits.
I I I New address I 
What Are The Minimum Requirements to Maintain
I I My Account? 
I City State __Zip I 
-Keep $5.00 in share (savings account). I Return or Mail to Credit Union Office I -Keep balance sufficient to handle $1 .00 per month EXCHANGE fee (whether card is used or not). 
._____________________________
I I 
-Provide us with your summer address . 
..,)· "'\ .. -... 
.-? F' 1 .
c.''·.t'l ~•• "';, 1 <" ' ' ' I I " ' Ill I. • • ~ I t • ) 'I~ ~' I 
,, ,. ,, .J ,., .r ; J. r ..1 ,, 'r ,, · ., ,.J J ,,·,~o ·_I -f .e "'! ' • .: 1 ~ ;. , 
_i;;,~·-t·-l·,··FJ.tf~_.!r, 3~_, 1,,1•.t;; 

....... ~,, ...... , 
.~ 
The Observer Tuesday, May 1, 1984-page 10 
NFL Draft today 
Teams pick from depleted crop 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The lll'isman 
Trophy \Vinncr is gone. So is the top 
quartlTha<.:k and tht· top-rated 
tkknsivt· lineman. 

Now it's the turn of the National 
Football l.t·ague, which sat by quiet­
ly while a 2-yt·ar-old rival signed 
some of the Class of 198-l's prime 
prospects, to pick over what's left. 
When NFL teams sit down today 
at tht· Omni Park llotd to divide up 
tht· rights 10 :H6 <.:ollegc: seniors, 
they will t1nd the nop depleted ­
nine playt·rs considered t1rst­
roundc:rs have signed with the 
llnited States Football League and 
perhaps 30 of the top I00 prospects 
havt· done the same. 

Gont· is llc:isman winner Mike 
Rozier of Nebraska, the only top­
caliber running hack available this 
year; gone is Reggie White, the 280­
pound defensive tackle from Ten· 
m:ssee; gone is Brigham Young 
quartt·rhack Steve Young, who 
signed a 43-year, 540 million con­
tract with the Los Angeles Express. 
In tact. the free-spending Express 
h;L~ snappnl up more than a dozen 
prospects who might have heen 
draftnl in tht· NI·Ts first four rounds. 
But for NFL tt·ams -and for the 
many tans who tfl·at the draft like 
the opening game of the next season 
-thert·'s still enough left to make 
for an intt·rc:sting, if somewhat 
confusing, day. Even tht· people who 
make a living at judging prospects 
acknowledge that doing that this 
year is dift1cult. 

"It's a wugh draft to make sense 
ot:" says Steve Ortmayer, director of 
football operations for the Super 
Bowl champion Los Angeles Raiders. 
"It's hard to tell what's happening, 
which means there's liable to he 
more mistakes made in this draft, al­
though maybe not on the t1rst 
round." 

Moreover, the lJSFL remains a fac­tor. Last year, after the NFL draft, it signed two of the older league's picks -quarterback Jim Kelly, drafted by Buffalo and signed by the Houston Gamblers; receiver-
Split 
continuedfrom page 12 

Freshman Ken Soos continued his 
streak of impressive hitting as he 
hammered a home run in the 
nightcap. Metzler added a pair of 
doubles to complete an impressive 
day. Trudeau also had a double, 
while Dan Harrington contributed a 
triple to the Irish attack. Conlin im­
proved his record to 4-3 with the 
victory. 

All signs pointed to continued 
Irish dominance on Sunday, as they 
travelled to Bulldog country in In­
dianapolis. But a disastrous first in­
ning, in which Butler managed to 
score six times, stole all hope for a 
sweep from Irish hearts. 

"We just didn't play well on Sun­
day," said Gallo. "We had the 't1rst 
inning blues', and they hurt us." 

Although tht· Bulldogs could only collect t1ve hits off Irish starter Mark Clcmt•ntz, they scored seven runs over the course of the game, includ­ing those six in the t1rst. Two Irish errors contributed greatly to Notrt· • Dame's demise. 
Notre Dame could only score: four times, three times in the third and once in the t1fth. Metzler and Vuono again highlighted the Irish attack, as they once again smashed home runs. Clementz took the tough loss, drop­ping his record to 3-5. 
Yesterday, the Irish again fell apart in the t1rst inning, letting in three Bulldog runs. The Irish came hack, and closed the gap to 3-2 in the fifth on a Mctzler sacrit1ce fly. 
But a Butler home run in the sixth closed out the scoring, and the Irish 
running hack Gary Anderson, drafted by San Diego, signed by the Tampa Bay Bandits. 
That means NI'L teams will he making sure a player can he signed hcfi)re he is drafted. 
Houston, for example, wanted to draft linebacker Wilber Marshall of Florida, hut balked at his asking price ofa reported S I million a year. Philadelphia would like Penn State wide receiver Kenny Jackson, hut is concerned about his talks with the lJSFL's Philadelphia Stars. 
In fact, the: t1rst two choices have already heen made and lockt·d up. 
The New England Patriots, who dealt with the Cincinnati Bengals af­ter the Bengals declined to match the kind of money the lJSFL was spending, took wide receiver Irving Fryar of Nebraska and immediately signed him. Then the Houston Oilers, declining to pay Marshall's price, said they had agreed to terms with Fryar's Nchraska tt·ammate, guard Dean Steinkuhler. 

That leaves the New York Giants with the opening pick. 
The Giants, who need offensive linemen and coveted Stcinkuhlcr, may, despite one ofthe NFL's strong­est linebacking units, pick the player scouts consider the next hest in the draft -linebacker Carl Banks of Michigan State. Or they may trade down for additional compensation and take offensive tackle Bill Roberts ofOhio State. 
In addition to Banks, defensive standouts include Marshall; defensive backs Mossy Cade of Texas, Russell Carter of Southern Methodist, Leonard Coleman ofVan­derbilt and Don Rogers ofUCLA; and defensive linemen Bill Maas of Pitt, Rick Bryan of Oklahoma, Keith Mil­lard of Washington State and Ron Faurot ofArkansas. 
Showing at relays earns three Championship bids 
By CHUCK EHRMAN 
.\ports Writer 
What did the Drake Relays mean to the Notre Dame track team this past weekend? For some, it now means a road trip to the upcoming IC4A Champion­ships in Villanova in three weeks. .lim Tyler;JcffVan Wie, and Mark Wozniak all qualified. 
In the 1,500-meters, Tyler bet­tered the recommended IC4A outdoor standard time by nearly four seconds with a 3:45.00 clocking. And for freshman Van Wic, a 1:49.30 time in the 800­meters was good enough to earn an invitation. Wozniak ran the 10,000-meters in 30:14.00. Said coachJoe Piane: "They ran well." 
Piane labeled the team's per­
formance as adequate. "We can he better," he said. "But I was satist1ed. We placed two out of three relay teams. And that's not bad." 

Notre Dame's 4x I, 600-meter relay foursome ofJim Moyer, Tim Cannon, Tyler, and Andy Dillon managed a fifth-place t1nish, while Moyar, Dan Shannon, John McNelis, and Cannon combined to take sixth in the distance med­ley event. 
In the field events, James Pat­terson continues to impress. The fleet-footed junior jumped his way into second place in the long jump with a 25-foot, three­quarter inch effort. 
The Irish return home this weekend to play host to the Mid­west Catholic Championships. Ail track fans should attend. "It should he fun," said Piane. 
went home unhappy. Joe Dobosh pitched well, but picked up the loss which dropped his record to 2-6. 
"We had oppurtunities to score runs, but we left too many men on hase," said Gallo. "Joe Dobosh pitched a good game. We just didn't score any runs for him." 
The loss yesterday dropped the Irish to 19-20 for the season, and left them 4-6 in the Midwestern Gty Conference. 
The split with Butler was exteme­ly disheartening for the Irish, be­cause it dimmed the conference playoffpicture greatly. 

"We are probably out of the playoffpicture with our 4-6 record," commented Gallo. "These were very disappointing losses, because I thought we had a great chance to make the playoffs." 
The Irish meet Western Mchigan in an away doubleheader tomorrow, and return home for a twinhill Thursday against St. Joseph's. 
"We now have to shoot for a win­ning season," said Gallo. "If we end 
· up on a real good note, we can still have a relatively successful season, although it would have been nice to make the playoffs." 
Don't let this chance escape you! 

Ihe flbser:ver_ is looking for a limited number of nighttime production workers for next semester. Learn valuable layout skills and have fun too. Stop by the LaFortune office soon for an application and more information. 

james Patterson set a personal best in the Drake Relt~ys this weekend, jumping a distance of 25 feet, three-amd-a-quarter inches. ThejumfJ.u•as good enough for 11 second place finish for Patterson. Notre Dame also placed tbree members in tbe /C4A Championships in Indianapolis. 
THE WEALTH OF EXPERIENCE YOU GET IN THE ARMY PAYS OFF IN COLLEGE 
A lot of what it takes to be a good soldier is what it takes to be a good college student. 
So it shouldn't surprise you that more and more young people are going to college by way of the Army. They're getting the benefits of Army skill training The opportunity to live and work with different kinds of people. And the chance to travel. They're also getting the financial benefits of the Army College Fund. If you qualify, the Army College Fund can mean as much as $15,200 for college for serving two years or $20,100 for serving just three years. See your Army Recruiter and ask for the Armv College Fund booklet. It'll tell you how to go to college a much wealthier person. In more ways than one. 
SGT Jones 234-4187 ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
After your last exam, what toughquestions will you still be facing? 

Wdon't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
II 
Contact: 
Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director 
Box541 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 283-6385 
r 


.-------------------------------------~--~----­
~«:)c:l(l~------------------------------~----~-,M_a_y_t,_t9_~__-_P_~_el_l 
It's a good idea from time to time to leave yourself open to new experiences. Early Pleistocene mermaids  6:30p.m. 16 MASH 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel ofFortune 8p.m. 16 TheA-Team 22 The American Parade 28 Foul Ups, Bleeps and Blunders 7:30p.m. 28 A.K.A. Pablo 8p.m. 16 Riptide 22 CBS Movie 28 Three's Company 8:30p.m. 28 Oh Madeline 9p.m. 22 Remington Steele 28 Hart to Hart 10p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 10:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Magnum PI/McCloud 28 ABC News Nightline llp.m. 28 Eye on Hollywood 11:30p.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman  
41 Refrain 56 Leash syllable 57 DetailThe Daily Crossword 43' Consume 58 lcecream 46 Witty holder saying 59 HinduACROSS 35 Antenna 57 Salad 6 Opportunit¥ 49 "The­deity1 Postage 37 Poet ingredient 7 Epistles Cometh" 60 Food fish item Teasdale 64 Small 8 Vow 51 Narrow 61 "Exodus"6 Thick-soled 39 Follower particle 9 Cereal strips of authorshoe of: suff. 65 Uncommon grass water 62 Play group 10 Ditto 40 Rampart 66 Part of 10 Elf 54 Glacial 63 Robt.­14 Out of this 42 Lessening RFD 11 Guinness ridge 64 Wingworld of world 67 Ms. Home 12 Heavy hair tensions 68 Part of 13 Finale 44 Summer: Fr. 21 Annie­Monday's Solution 15 Listen Latin 16 Diagram 45 Stringed lesson 22 Deny17 Contaminate instrument 69 Aromatic ADAK ••25 Candle 8 E L Ll A R I A 18-boy! 47 More herb RILE.M E L E E L y N X 26 Gaucho's19 Tearwith penurious 70 Lastword K N I T. I L 0 N A s u R E 48 Wireless ropeviolence 71 Eccentric STICKS A N 0 S T 0 N E S 50 Samoan 27 Goofed •• ETH20 Livedan­wheels 28 Juan's aunt lmiSMl L E R. I N S E Tgerously port 72 Glue 52 Biblical 30 Craze A L 0 E•L EA-N I T R 0 23 Marathon N 0 CKPARKtown 32 Fool C A 24 Seine IM .TIDOWN 33 Chemical A G 0 0 R RF S L 0 E25 Waste 1 Collections compound T 0 T E S A N E A R.E R N allowance 2 Shipwood EAR­CAP­34 Cubic29 Saw cut 53 Metric 3 Solo meter f LO 0~ ST I C KS H I f 1 -.... _"=• LUMP PEDAL.OTDEmeasures: 4 Julep 36 Poise EXIT IRENE.NEIL31 Kelly and abbr. ingredient 38 New version WETS CYST •• YALE © 1984 Tribune Company Syn Jlcate, Inc. 5/1/84Krupa 55 Signs 5 Ustil!ll.!... of a film All Rights Reserved  
til • • • !i'• •REFRIGERATOR RETURNS  * * *EARN MONEY* * * The Student Activities Board needs poster  
hangers for the 1984-85 school year. Applications available at the Student Activities Board Offices on the 2nd floor of Lafortune  
• •.,r.  

Bloom Connty Berke Breathed 


HACK~5. AS A I?Ut.e, flO NOT HllNPL£ 0850t..esceta 


Jeff MacNelly 

Guindon Richard Guindon The Far Side Gary Larson 
Campus 
•11:30 
am. -Lunch, on the patio at the Center, for Social Concerns, 

•12 
p.m. -Luncheon, Ladies of Notre Dame, Morris Inn 

•12:25 
p.m.-Workshop, Sharon Terrell, Ubrary Lounge 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Phase Equilibria and In­terfacial Tensions in C02-Hydrocarbon Systems," Dr. Robert L. Robinson, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis , ND Women vs SMC, Courtney Courts 

•4 
p.m. -Faculty Research Round Table, "On Laser Disk Technology," Prof. Albert Miller, Rare Book Room 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology SeminM, "The Molecular Basis for the Formation ofMicrovilli and Filopodia in Sea Urchin Cells," Dr. Joanne Otto, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Blood Wedding," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by SMC Spanish Club, Free 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Ivan the Terrible," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club 

•7 
p.m. -SOLA General Meeting, and Elections, CSC Coffee house 

•7 
p.m. -Ground Zero General Meeting, CSC 

•7:30, 
9:30 and 11:30 p.m -Film, "The Harder They Come," Chautauqua, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1 

•8 
p.m. -Mass, with prayers for healing of the sick, Sacred Heart Church 

•8 
p.m. -Film, "The Last Epidemic," Holy Cross TV Room, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free 


TV Tonight 
• ... •, '.,_ .·,I I I .1. • • I .J I'-'-\ 
I. 0 0 •. ,•; ....' •.~.',',',•,•,·,~.·.·-·.•.•,•.·.'.' f •.•.•,•,• ..... 'I ',!!',ft.~ t,.'~'''~'!'~'o,•..,•,•., ..,.
0 1'1 

, .. "',., .• ,. ..• -· ·-·············-······..·.· 
TUesday, May 1, 1984 -page 12
S~orts 
Lacrosse team breezes to its fifth straight win 
By MIKE SULLIVAN momentum from their big upset of 
Denison a week earlier. By. the time 
the visitors scored their first goal 

Three wn·ks ago, the NOire Dame with 6:42 left in the third quarter, lacrosse team boasted a so-so 3-3 Notre Dame already had scored II mark and seemed to he on the way times. In fact, the margin was never to a rather undistinguished season. Jes..<; than nine for the entire second 
However. after the team's fifth half. straight win Saturday -a 17-4 rout "I was really shocked that we heat of Ohio State -Irish coach Rich them as bad as we did," said O'Leary. O'Lt-ary and his players arc wishing "I thought they'd dominate us at tht· 19H4 season would not end so midfield, but they didn't. I think 
soon. 
Sports Editor 

they're capable of matching up with Tht· surprising case with which us, though." 
Notrt· Dame handled Midwest On Saturday, Ohio State matched Lacrosse Association opponent up with Notre Dame for about three­Ohio Statt· is tht· latest chapter in and-a-half minutes. Then the what has turned out to be the astroturf of Cartier Field swallowed lacrosse team's greatest season in its up the Buckeyes as the Irish scored short history. The victory improVl·d three goals in I 5 seconds and added the Irish record to H-3 ( 7 -I in tht· a fourth less than two minutes later. Ml.A) with only a game this Saturday Sophomore Tim Corrigan started against Michigan State remaining. off the scoring by getting past an The win also kept Notre Dame in the Ohio State defender for an open thi1.:k of thc race for the Ml.A title. shot. Eight seconds later, attackman 
Tht· Buckeyes, who were Joe Franklin took a pass from Bob supposed to givt· their hosts a tough Trocchi and dumped it in the Ohio time. found thcm1odves swamped by 
See LAX, page 8 

tht· Irish who were still riding the 
Weekend split leaves 
joe Franklin scored four goals to help the Irish Rich O'Lear:)''s squad an 8-3 record, best et,er in Notre
playoff outlook dark 
lacrosse team to a 17-4 defeat ofMidu>est Lacrosse As­Dame's short history Mike Sullit•arl's story• at left. sociation opponent Ohio State. The win gave Coach 


By ERIC SCHEUERMAN The Bulldogs could score no Sfmrts Writer more, and the final score favored the 
District playoffs 
Irish by a score of I 0-'5. Lopes picked Incon1oistcncy ruled again last up the win with a fine five-hit perfor­weekend over the Notre Dame mance, and moved his record to 4-3. 
Belles heading for Indianapolis 
baseball team. After an easy swcep of Mike Metzler and Carl Vuono a doubleheader over Midwestern pounded homers for the Irish, while By KATHY MURPHY In the second game o,f the could only manage two hits off win­City Conference rival Butler on Mike Trudeau and Tom Shields Sports Writer doubleheader, the Belles got on the ning pitcher Julie Keighcr, a junior. Saturday, the Irish t·ame back with a lashed doubles to lead the 11-hit at­board early with two runs in the first McGinnis went 2-for-3 with a triple, shoddy pt·rformances in single tack. The Saint Mary's softball team inning. Adamo hit a home run with 2 RBI, and three runs scored. Nolan games Sunday and yesterday, and Notre Dame played in the second finished off its home season over the junior Barb Theiss on to put Saint went 2-for-2 with 3 RBI. entkd up splitting the weekend game as if the first one had merely weekend with four victories to Mary's up 2-0, and the lead grew to "We had some trouble getting series. been a chance to warm up. While boost its overall record to 22-3. 4-0 in the second when junior Elaine ourselves into the game after the 
On Saturday, in a pair of games at Irish hurlers Tom Conlin and and On Friday the Belles took a Suess scored on a Franklin error and delay," said Beisel. "But I was proud Jake Kline Field, the Irish brought Jason Schoner held the Bulldogs to doubleheader from Franklin Col­freshman Lorri White singled in Mul­how we worked ourselves out of it, out the lumber like never before this four hits, the Irish hitters unleashed lege, jumping out to a 1-0 lead in the cahy. got intense and executed well to season, crushing the Bulldogs b} a 17-hit attack of their own. first inning when freshman Anne Franklin managed to score a run in win." scoresof10-Sand 16-2. The Irish jurnpcd out a 6-0 lead af­trapp tripled in classmate Janine the third, but the Belles buried The four victories over the 
In the first contest, the Irish fell tcr three inning.-; and never looked Adamo. Both teams went scoreless Franklin in the fourth with three weekend should give the Belles a behind 2-0 in the first inning as the back. Thcy continued to build on over the next three innings, but runs to go ahead 7-1. Franklin added definite boost as they travel to In­Bulldogs scored quickly off starter their lead and gradually increased it Franklin ended the dry spell in the a run in the seventh to make the final diana University-Purdue University Buster Lopes. But in the second, to 16-0 after six innings. Only two fifth, tying the game 1-1. 7-2. Winning pitcher Cathy Logsdon at Indianapolis for the National As­Notre Dame scored four runs to take mcaningless Bulldogs runs in their The Belles broke the tie in the struck out six and walked none. sociation ofIntercollegiate Athletics the lead. last at-bat averted the shutout. sixth inning, scoring two runs. With "I was very pleased with our per­District 21 playoffs. Eight teams of 
Butler put a scare into the Irish by "Tom Conlin pitched very, very Trapp on first and Adamo on third, formance," said Head Coach Scott the 17-team district have qualified slowly chipping away at the lead, well," said Irish Head Coach Larry junior Teresa McGinnis laid down a Biesel. "Franklin had the best for the tournament. and finally went out in front S-4 with Gallo. "We also scorcd sixteen runs. perfect sacrifice bunt to score defense we've seen in Division Ill Saint Mary's has been seeded No. two runs in the: top of the sixth. The It makes it a lot easier to pitch with Adamo. Junior Mary Lynne Mulcahy and I was pleased how we executed 2 behind a powerful IUPU-1. The Irish then put the game out of reach that many runs behind you." singled in Trapp, and Franklin went to win the game." Belles will play No. 7 seed Taylor, by exploding for six runs in the bot­down 1-2-3 in the seventh to insure On Saturday Saint Mary's faced who they beat twice last week, at 
See SPLIT, page 10 

tom of the inning. the Belles' 3-1 victory. Anderson College and after more noon Friday. than a two-hour delay the game "We're going to take each game finally began. Anderson jumped out one at a time and not look ahcad," to a 3-0 lead in the first, and the said Beisel. "You cannot underes­Belles came back with a run of their timate any team in tournament play own in the second to make it 3-1. because anything can happen." However, they missed a golden op­The Belles have an added in­portunity to take the lead in the centive to do well in the tourna­third. ment. They were denied the 
After a single by freshman Kris opportunity to participate in the Pantdleria and walks to Theiss and playoffs last year and therefore wen: Adamo, the bases were loaded with unable to defend their state crown. only one out. Trapp stepped up to With a team batting average of the plate and hit a grounder back to .333. a pitching staff including the pitcher who forced Pantelleria senior Annie Day (O.H2 ERA) and out at home and Trapp was thrown Keigher ( 1.22 ERA) and three of In­out at first, ending the Belles' hope diana's top I 0 fielders in first ofa big inning. baseman Theiss. shortstop Nolan 
In the bottom ofthe sixth with An­and second baseman Pantclleria. the derson leading '5-3, Suess reached Belles look strong. first on an Anderson error. Singles by "The way we'vt.· ht·en pla\·ing Mulcahy, junior Trish Nolan and defcnsc wt· t.·an stay with anyorw... Logsdon follownl. grvmg Saint said Bt'ist'l. Mary's two runs to tie the game at A consistent attack has hecn tht· t1ve. Three more runs scored after a key to a ~uccessful sea!>on for tht· bases-loaded walk and a two-run Belles. Beisel is looking l(,rward to single by Adamo. and Anderson this weekend's tournamt.·nt. went down in order in the seventh "At the tournamt.·nt we will play to give the Belles the H-'5 win. Nolan our same consistent type of ball that went 2-for-3 with a triple and 3 RBI. we've been playing all year," said 
In the second game, the Belles Beisel. "We'll be aggressive with tht· After thmshi7lg Midwestern City Co71fenmce rival downs Sunday, losing by 7-4 and 4-2 margins. The sent Anderson home a little early, bat and on the bases. We want to Butler by scores of 10-5 a7ld 16-2 071 Saturday, Steve w~kend split leaves Notre Dame with a 4-6 MCC winning 11-0 in a fi.ve.inning force errors and capita)i~~:·qq the Passimmlt and tbe Irish baseball team suffen!d let-record. Eric Scbeuennann's story above. "slaughter rule" game:. Aridersoa ntht"l'team's mistakesJ'· .•..~,· 




