... 
----------------, 
Contest results -page 6 


being stopped by securityas itneared the band. 
Saint Mary's exchange professor 
accents western civilization courses 
By SEAN LYNCH 
NewsSUl/f 
Students in certain western 
civilization or British/Irish history 
classes at Saint Mary's recently 
might have noticed a teacher with a 
different accent. She is Jackie Hill, an 
exchange professor from Ireland. 
Hill was teaching at Saint Patrick's College in Maynooth, Ireland. She exchanged positions with Tony Black, associate professor of history at Saint Mary's. Black is now teach­ing at Saint Patrick's while Hill took over his position at Saint Mary's. 
Hill is at Saint Mary's until the end of the first semester. 
One difference Hill sees in the educational system of the United States is the grading system. In th~ United States, there is constant mon­itoring through a series of tests She thinks this system aids the weaker students because they have less m~­terial to remember. In Ireland, there is usually only one cumulative test at the end ofthe course. She thinks this helps the better students because they have more flexibilty. 

Hill spoke at the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame last Tues­day night. Hill gave the history be­hind Northern Ireland. She was then follm..red by two graduate students from Ireland who talked about the present day conflict in Northern Ireland. 
Hill also had her own personal opinion about the Northern Ireland conflict. "For nearly two hundred years Irish Protestants have ex­pressed a strong committment to the Union, often despite British at­tempts to reconcile them with Irish Catholics. Northern Ireland was set up in 1920 because Protestants rejected an all-Ireland government dominated by Catholics. They still reject the IRA view that they are really members of a single Irish na­tion. 
"The Unionist view is equally mis­guided. The IRA flourishes because, despite the welcome reforms of recent years, Northern Catholics still remain, in some respects, second class citizens. It is harder for them to reach top jobs, and they per­ceive the prejudice as an essentially Protestant force." 
Hill was educated at Leeds, En­gland. 
Florida State University to receive 'supercomputer' delivery next year 
Assodakd Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -In February, Florida State University becomes a member of an elite group -one of about 70 places in the world where "supercomputers" of both dazzling and deadly capabilities are being used to carry out advanced scientific research. 
A supercomputer is the fastest, most powerful computer in opera­tion at any given time. Only four other universities in the United States have them -Colorado State, Purdue, Georgia and Minnesota. 
The CYBER 205, expected to be delivered in February, is a state-of­the-art computer theoretically capa­ble of performing I billion calculations per second. In 1960, the fastest computers could perform 
only  I  million  operations  per  
second.  
The  CYBER 205 project  was  

pushed enthusiastically by FSU offi­cials, who predict the computer will be a boon to research on many sub­jects involving complicated and time-consuming calculations, such as global weather patterns and de­velopment ofnew energy sources. 

"We feel it's one of the best things that's ever happened to FSU," said Frank Stephenson, research editor at the university. 
Stephenson said the supercom­puter will be most effective in an area called elementary particle physics, "the cutting edge of physics" that deals with the study of the tiniest parts ofthe atom. 
"A tremendous amount of time is required to analyze the experi­ments," Stephenson said. 
The supercomputer, he said, is merely "a tool to shorten the amount of time that scientists are at the mercy ofcomputers." 
The United States currently faces a widening technological gap be­tween data-gathering devices and computers sophisticated enough to 
digest enormous amounts of infor­
mation, he said. 

Space shuttle missions, for exam­
ple, provide so much raw data 
"there's no time to analyze it in time 
to use it," he said. 

Scientists unable to gain access to supercomputers in the United States are traveling more frequently to other countries to do research, and "people in Washington and else­where are concerned we're going to slip behind (in research)," Stephen­son said. 
The university has promised that no classified research will be con­ducted by its supercomputer, even though its partner in the computer project, the U.S. Department of En­ergy, is using supercomputers for se­cret weapons research at other facilities, Stephenson said. 
The potential of the supercom­puter also raises questions about re­search conducted for productive purposes but turned to destructive ends. 
Howard resident, Donald M. Taylor, killed in car wreck 
By AMY STEPHAN 
SeniorStaffReporter 

Donald Taylor, a Howard sopho­more, was killed early yesterday morning when his car was hit by a train at the Caroline railroad cross­ing near Uncoln Way. 
At 2:35 a.m. Taylor attempted to beat the train and cross the tracks al­though the crossing gates were down, according to the South Bend Police Department. He was pronounced dead at the scene ofthe accident from massive head and chest injuries. 
Taylor was headed north toward campus when he reached the double railroad crossing. Trains were approaching from both direc­tions. He apparently looked at the train approaching from the right and thought he had time to cross the tracks, but either didn't look to his left or misjudged the distance of the eastbound Conrail train, said Keith Caughlin, assistant rector ofHoward Hall. 
The eastbound train collided with his car and carried it approximately I ,000 feet, according to the South Bend Police Department. The westbound train was able to stop and was not involved in the acci­dent. 
Minutes before the accident, Taylor dropped off his friend Prinses Hemphill at Twickingham Hills. She said she dropped her bag upon leaving the car and as she picked it up told him to drive carefully. 
The two had attended a Black Cul­tural Arts Council party that night in LaFortUne, and as he drove her home, they talked about a party they planned to attend the following night. 
"He was in a hurry to get back to campus," said Hemphill. "He wanted to get something to eat." She said they had stopped at the Great Ameri­canHotdogStand, but the lines were 

•I • 
j 
Donald M. Taylor 
~ 
too long and they left before buying J 
j
anything. The guard gates at the scene ofthe J 
j
accident are often down and It is not unusual for people to "scoot around J them," said Caughlin. These tracks J 
l 
are also "on a rise, making traffic J flow difficult," he added. 
J 
"He was extremely outgoing and J loved to dance to Morris Day's song, j 'The Bird,' " said Hemphill. "He was J the best 'bird' dancer ... 'just J 
see TAYLOR page 3 

U of Chicago picks SMC for new business program 
By LUCY KAUFMAN 
News Staff 

Saint Mary's College has been selected as one of 12 undergraduate 
colleges to participate in a new venture of the University of 
Chicago's Graduate School of Business to be held in the summer of 
1985. 

Two juniors will be chosen by a selection committee, appointed 
by College President John Duggan, to be a part of this Early Entry 
Program. 

Saint Mary's was selected to be part of this program by the univer­sity because it is a liberal arts college with a solid academic reputa­tion. The University feels that those students who have a strong liberal arts background have a better chance for advancement in the business world than those who only have concentrations in busi­ness. 
Juniors who have an interest in business should apply directly to the selection committee. Those students in the humanities are espe­cially encouraged to apply. Written applications will be reviewed and selected students will be granted interviews. 
No business background is needed and a strong liberal arts back­ground is encouraged. GRE or GMAT scores are required. Applicants should have a solid academic record and good leadership qualitie&. Outstanding public relation skills are also among the criteria for se­lection. Chosen students will be notified near April 15. 
Selected juniors will be enrolled automatically in the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business and will receive full tuition scholarships from the university. 
During the summer of 1985 the students, along with 22 other students from II other colleges, will attend career development programs and take business courses which will count in credits toward the MBA. 
For more information and applications, contact Gail Mandell in room 220 Madden or at 284-4484. 

Monday, November 19, 1984-page 2 
The Observer 


~K:nigtlt is well known for stressing man-to-man defense, so tt wasn't surprising when an ~ing motorist made a fast break after an offensive foul. Bloomingtonpolice said an uniden­tified motorist driving a Toyota sped unmolested from the scene after sideswiping Knight's 1985 Buick Riviera Friday. Bloomington Patrolman Richard Sturgis said the Indiana University basketball coach was not injured, but the carsuffereddamages totaling $2,000. 
-AP 

Twenty-one rare Reticulated ilirnffes 
boarded a cargo plane with an extra-high ceiling ~yand departed for a florida zoo in a move that officials hq>ed would help keep the speciesfrom becomingextinct. The airliftwasdescribedby its sponsors as a "rescue mission." Only 1,000 Reticulated giraffes, considered the most beautiful ofthe four most common subspecies ofgiraffe, exist in this east African country and there are fears they mightdie outinfive to 10years. Theoperationwas designed to save some ofthe giraffes and to start a pure gene pool for breeding in the United States, said GeraldS. Lentz, the zoomanager. -AP 
Analanningnwnberofcases ofmultiple sclerosis, a debilitating disease that attacks the body's nervous system, are showingup inKey West, florida's famous resort island k:rio"M1 for its good life. Twenty-three cases of the disease, which studies show usually has a much higher incidence rate in the North, have been confinned among the city's approximately 30,000 inhabitants, ac­cording to Dr. William Sheremata, a neurologist at the University of Miami School ofMedicine. -AP 
0£~ Interest 

Infonnation brodmres of festivities 
planned for those interested in traveling to USC can be picked up at the Ombudsman infonnation desk on the 1st floor ofLafortune Sru­dent Center or in the Snxlent Government offices on 2nd floor laforrune. Events planned for the week include Thanksgiving Din­ner, reduced rates at Disneyland, a kickoff luncheon, a pep rally, a pre-game booster party, a post-game booster party, a victory party and a axnmunion breakfast. The events will be hosted by the Notre Dame dubs ofthe Southwest. -1be Observer 
The Shakespeare SocietyofNotre Dame will be selling tickets to the i st Annual Christmas Celebration at dinner today and tomorrow.The Celebrationincludes a full candlelightdin­nerand entertainment, fearuring medieval music and dr.nna. Tickets are limited and are available to snxtents for $3.50 and fuculty for $7. The Celebration is Dec. 8th at 7:00pm. -The Observer 
Weather 
Partlysunnvand coldMon­

day with highs in the low 30s. A 30 percent chance of snow Monday night and Tuesday 
I 
! with 10\VS near 20 and highs in the low 30s. For those who are spending the holiday in South Bend, partly sunny Thanksgiving Day with highs in the upper 40s. Wednesday through Friday: partly cloudy each day. Cool Wednesday with highs in the low 40s and lO\VS in the 20s. -AP 

r 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ................................ Troy Illig Design Assistant .................. Andi Schnuck Layout Staff..................................... Princess 
lbe Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is 

Typesetters .................. Cathyann Reynolds 
published Monday through Friday and 

News Editor ............................. John Menne! 
on home football Saturdays, except 

Copy Edttor ................................. Frank Lipo
during exam and vacation periods. The 

Sports Copy Editor .......... Theron Roberts Observer is published by the students of 
Viewpoint Layout................ Kevin Becker 
the University of Notre Dame and Saint 

Viewpoint Copy Editor......... Paul Cimino 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Features Copy Editor .. Margaret McCabe purchased for S30 per year ( S20 per SC· 

Features Layout.............. Dana Bainbridge 
mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. 

ND Day Editor ........................... Katy Doyle
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

Ad Design .....................Jeanne GRammem 
The Observer Is a member of lbe A.ssoclated Press. All reproduction right.~ are reserved. 

Attitude changes necessary for better student/faculty relations 
In the past year, much attention has been given to the relationship between the students and the administra­
Frank Lipo 
tion at Notre Dame. The new alcohol policy and the issue of an adequate student center are two areas on Copy Editor which widespread attention has been focused. 
An important issue has escaped our attention. Aview ofour University which emphasizes the relationship be­Inside Monday tween the administration and the students is an incom­


plete one. We tend to focus on the social aspect of our life at Notre Dame and an administration many feel in-"teacher's pet." It is an attitude more appropriate for a terferes with that social life. Of course our fellow stu· grammar school than a University. It is an attitude that dents are vital to our education and our happiness. They leaves that question unanswered and that comment un­are the friends who we value and who provide the expe-spoken. It is an attitude that hurts all. riences we treasure. It is this attitude change that is needed before stu-
But our experience here has other aspects to which dent/faculty lounges and other physical changes will be we must turn our attention. Whether we view our edu-made. Who will appropriate funds for such a move ifthe cation as a means to get a better job or as an intellectual initiative is not taken by faculty and students them-exercise, we cannot forget the faculty who enable us to selves? strive for our goals. We consider them when we choose Although we will most likely never return to the days 
our classes and every time ~;:::======;:=;~==:::;;~~;;7(1 when many faculty actually we attend class. We too of-I' lived in the residence halls, ten do not view them as it is up to the present faculty other people who have real and students to break down concerns we share. We lose the barriers we have helped out on knowledge we could build. gain from them: knowledge Through participation in that is not strictly textbook the Accent Lecture series, knowledge. This one-sided which is an attempt to bring view hurts both faculty and faculty and administration students. into the dorms for informal Last April the University topical discussion and Curriculum Committee through Hall Fellows pro-completed their report, grams, which some dorms more than a year in the have already organized and making. The committee attempt to involve the fac­consisted of faculty from ulty in dorm life, we can im­each of the four colleges and prove our relationship with the Law School. It had ad-the faculty. ministration members. It "When reviewing the
lt'!Att Wei.-IHOLT 11-1"1 

also consisted of one stu-quality of life here at Notre dent from each ofthe colleges and one student from the Dame, it became evident that three facets of student Law School. These five students constituted the Sub-development (intellectual, social and spiritual) are not committee on the Quality ofUndergraduate life. well integrated. In fact students often perceive these as 
The student subcommittee's report pointed out the sharply separate dimensions of life and treat them ac­need for better student/faculty relationships. It spoke cordingly," said the report of the student subcommit­ofproblems that exist at Notre Dame. Large classes that tee. reduce student-teacher interaction, time requirements This integration of life in and out of the classroom that lead to a "9 to 5" attitude towards education, fac-would be a positive step in the development ofthe total ulty research that impedes the learning process, lack of person that is one of our goals at Notre Dame. student/faculty lounges in classroom buildings and iso­lation offaculty offices from student areas are some ex­amples of problems that need to be examined to improve the intellectual environment of faculty and 
The views expressed in the Inside column 
students. 

are the views of the author, and do not neces­
Perhaps the biggest hurdle to clear is one ofattitude. sa,rily reflect· the views of the editorial board
It is easy for students and faculty alike to maintain bar­riers that discourage any type of real communication. or staff. Students are often afraid ofthe stigma ofafter class con­versation with professors. They do not want t.he label of 
THE MEN OF NOTRE DAME CALENDAR 
1985 

IS HERE AND GOING FAST! They will be on Sale TONIGHT In all women's dorms 
(SMC & ND)  $6.00  
6:00-9:00pm  WHERE?  2/S1o.oo Cash or check  
B.P.·"BeHy's Chair"  Lyons· Archway door  
Farley· Middle Room  Lewis· Lobby  
Holy Cross-Lobby  McCandless· Lobby  
LeMans·Lobby  P.E.Lobby  
Regina· Lobby  P.W.· Lobby  
Walsh· Lobby  N.D. Alumnfl  

Get a calendar through the mail 
Send $6.00 plus postage 
To:Farley Hall ----------------­
To: 319 Farley Hall Notre DAme, ln. 



The Observer Monday, November 19,1984-page 3
" 

L e 
The food's not1hatbad 

Following the football game Saturday seniors and theirparents were i1Wited to theSenior-Parent Dinner at the South Dining Hall. Partaking in 
Terrorists called 'abusers' of faith 

MANAMA, Bahrain -Middle East terrorist groups characterizing themselves as holy warriors were criticized as "abusers" of a sacred tenet of the Islamic faith by a Saudi Arabian religious leader during the weekend. 
The secretary-general of the Mecca-based Moslem World League, Abdullah Naseef, issued a statement distinguishing jihad, or Islamic holy war, and modern terrorism. 
"Jihad in Islam was instituted to further the causes of justice, dignity and Koranic law through a formal 


GIVE SOMEONE A TAN 

Applications now being accepted
FOR CHRISTMAS 
Assistant tq the Publicity Dlrectqr X-Mas special 
Ask aboufour 

Student Assistantship position 8-12 hours per week
TAN-HAWAl&N 
Publicity experience helpful but not necessary
sun tannirg sam 
Appllcatlqns available In Room 110
2n-1026 

Mqreau Hall Saint Mary's Cqllege
J.M.S..PlAZA 
4609 Grape Road 
NOTREbAME 
Mishawaka 
5NNl~t5. 

Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 
'IH~ 

WISA A MASTERCARD 
.. $20,000 Scholarships: AValuableScholarship. AValuable Challenge. 
The two-year NROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year college scholarst:ip that's worth as much as $20,000 in tuition. And it offers you the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. 
During college, the Navy pays tuition, cost of textbooks, instructional fees. and an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you are commissioned a Navy officer. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging program. 
lT. C. J. KARAFFA 1-800-382-9782 Ext. 6193 
L NavyOfficers Get ResponsibilityFast._ 
declaration of war against forces against humanity, destruction of in­bent on undermining these values stallations and terrorism against in­and rights," he told Tbe Associated nocent people committed under the Press in a telephone interview Satur­pretext ofjihad," he said. "Islam con­day. demns violence ofany nature." 
The league is a Saudi organization A number of terrorist groups striving to promote Islamic study operate underground in Lebanon and research throughout the world. and elsewhere in the Middle East un­
Conceding that he wanted to der self-styled religious tenets, in­avoid trouble with terrorist groups, cluding the Jihad Islami Naseef said: "let me only underscore organization, which claimed respon­the principle that the practice ofter­sibility for Beirut bombings that rorism is against Islamic teachings. I have killed more than 350 people. will not single out any specific group by its name. The same group claimed responsi­
"It is"Unthinkable that any honest bility for the killing of a Saudi gov­schol:~r would condone crimes ernment official · 
Notre Dame Food Service's atlinary delights are (leftto right) TerrlBogucki, TerryKuczkowski,and EdandDonnaStevenson. 
this address. 

: ACADEMIC RESCUE SQUAD I 
: _,..,, .,..,. you tlaouglat tJaere ..,... : e no U1GJI to saluage tlal8 •••eater••• e 
eSTUDY SKlLLS e : Tuesday, November 20 6:30-8 p.m.: 
e This workshop will be In the Counseling e :andPsychological Services Center, : eRoom 300. . ., e 
e This workshop is open to all UND e eand SMC students. e 
:Call 239-7336 or stop by C&PSC on : ethe 3rd floor of the Student Health e eCenter to sign up. • 
• Learn tlae secrets to succesale
• 

Theology chairs filled by Notre Dame profs 
Special to 1be Observer 

Two endowed chairs have been filled in Notre Dame's Department of Theology, according to Professor Timothy O'Meara, provost. 
Joseph Blenkinsopp, Jr., professor of theology at Notre Dame, has been named John A. O'Brien Professor of Old Testament Studies. This profes­sorship is one ofthree chairs in Cath­olic Theology in the department. Blenkinsopp, who j9ined the Notre Dame theology faculty in 1970, holds degrees from the University of London, the International Theologi­cal Institute of Turin, and the Uni­versity ofOxford. A specialist in Old Testament studies, he has published numerous books and articles on biblical theology and for the last four summers has coordinated an ar­chaeological project at Capernaum, Israel. 
Father Thomas O'Meara, profes­sor of theology at Notre Dame, has been named William K. Warren Pro­fessor of Catholic Theology. Father O'Meara, who joined the Notre Dame theology faculty in 1981, holds degrees from Saint Thomas College in River Forest, Ill., the 
Taylor 
continuedfrom page 1 

reknown tor doing 'the bird' at aU the parties." 
Taylor's favorite musicians were David Sandborne and Chaka Kahn, said another friend, Uoyd Constable. He added that Taylor liked all music, especially jazz. 
"He loved to play football and bas­ketball," said Hemphill, noting that Aquinas Institute and the University of Munich. Aspecialist in fundamen­tal theology, the theology ofThomas Aquinas, and the philosophy and theology of the 19th and 20th cen­turies, Father O'Meara has written 50 articles and several books, most recently, Theology ofMinistry. 
These appointments become ef­fective in September 1985. 
The three John A. O'Brien Chairs memorialize the priest-author who spent 40 years teaching and writing at Notre Dame before his death in 1980. A popular Catholic apologist whose books, articles and pamphlets reached millions of readers, Father O'Brien was a leader of the Newman Club movement and an early adv­ocate of the Church renewal issuing from the Second Vatican Council. 
The Warren Chair in Catholic Theology was established by a Sl million gift to the University from William K. Warren of Tulsa, Okla' Warren, an oil executive, has been a member of the advisory council for Notre Dame's College of Business Administration since 1948. He received an honorary degree from the University in 1956. 
Taylor often played basketball at the Rockne Memorial. 
"He always wanted to make you smile," said Hemphill. "If anyone could make you smile 'Don Juan' (Taylor's nickname) could." 
Taylor, an accounting major, turned 20 last week. He transferred into Howard this semester after spending his freshman year in Flanner. 
After the South Bend Police in­formed them of the accident, Notre Dame security called Father David ·fyson, vice president for Student M­fairs, at 3:20 yesterday morning. Tyson and Caughlin then identified Taylor's body at Memorial Hospital, and it was transported to his hometown of Toledo, Ohio, yester­day afternoon. 
Toni Griffin, secretary/treasurer of the Black Cultural Arts Council, said the BCAC is accepting con­dolences in the form of money and cards to be taken to the funeral. The council is holding an informal 

· memorial from 7 to 9 tonight in the BCAC office in Room 2AA in LaFortune. 
'Ibe funeral is tentatively sched­uled for 1 p.m. Wednesday in Toledo, said Caughlin. The wake and possibly the services will be held in the Dale Funeral Home at 572 Ne­braska Ave., Toledo, Ohio, 43602. Cards and flowers may be sent to 

• ~ 
• 
! A 
J 
f 
J 
J J J J J 
j 

J 
I
J J .J 

1 
J 
J j j j j j J 
J 
j J J I 
l 


View~_o_i_n_t________M_on-day-,N-ov_em_be_r_19__ ....
, 19_84_page_4 


r 
~ 
r 
( 
! ~ 
We must refuse to make neighbors scapegoats 
The ancient Hebrews had a practice in which they would atone for the sinS ofthe na­tion by designating a "scapegoat". The priest would take a goat and transfer to it the burden of the guilt ofthe nation. The goat would then be driven into the wilderness to suffer and die to pay the price of that guilt. 
The Hebrews were unusually humane in designating an animal to be there scapegoat. Most nations, confronted with the effects of 
Steven Horst 
guest column 
their misdeeds or with other catastrophes, single out people within their own borders to serve as scapegoats and bear the burden ofthe nation's sins. In the 1930's, Germany blamed Jews for its defeat in World War I and for its disastrous financial state after the World De­pression. In Russia, capitalists, reactionaries, Jews, Christians and Moslems have been blamed for the massive. difficulties that country has faced in the past half-century. And during the recent political campaigns, Americans have also responded to their troubles and their fears -both real and im­agined · by assigning scapegoats. 
It has not always been easy to be an Ameri­can during the past twenty years. We fought a long, unpopular, and undeclared war overseas which was doomed to failure because we alienated the people of the land we were trying to liberate. American soldiers have been tragically killed and American civilians held hostage in far-off lands were they could not be protected. We have been forced to face up to the injustices our country has commit· ted against blacks, women and other minorities, and called to make redress through programs like Affirmative Action which themselves seem to involve at least a short-term unfairness. We have become aware of shocking cases of grievous and ir­reparable harm to the environment by respected members of the corporate commu­nity. And we have become ever more pain­fully aware ofthe imminent effects of the lack ofan adequate national economic policy. 
These realizations have not been easy to bear, and contributed to the "national malaise" ofwhich President Carter spoke. Fif­teen years ago, Americans were up in arms about social and economic injustices, about an interventionist foreign policy, and about a ravaged environment. Today, as President Reagan has said, Americans feel better about their country. But why do Americans feel bet· ter today? It is not because the problems have disappeared: unemployment ofminorities has practically doubled in the past four years, Americans are being killed in foreign lands, and the CIA is teaching terrorists to assas­sinate foreign leaders and the environment is being less carefully monitored than it has been in twenty years. 

One rea5on we feel better is that we now have scapegoats on whom we can blame America's problems. In the Republican cam­paign we heard little of substance, but much about "the doomsayers" who think America has difficult problems. One scapegoat. We have a national budget deficit that is growing during a time of economic growth, portend­ing economic disaster if there is a recession in the near future. But this we are to blame on abuses of Social Security, welfare, and Medicaid -faceless scapegoats these, but the old, the infirm, and the disenfrancised are really forced to do with even less as we 'cut the fat'. Ifthere is high unemployment, we can blame it on the lazy and shiftless, on im­migrants, or on women entering the workforce. More scapegoats. And the religi­ous right offers scapegoats of its own: feminists, homosexuals and atheistic Secular Humanists, who plot to ruin our families and soil our souls. 
Perhaps assigning people unjustly to the role of the scapegoat would be an acceptable price to pay for the economic health and spiri­tual redemption of the nation if blame could be assigned without causing unjust harm. And yet history teaches us that, as conditions worsen, the scapegoats are saddled with the punishment for the nation's sins as well as the blame. It is no accident that racism, anti­Semitism and religious bigotry have been on the rise in recent years, nor that the young 
. show less interest in social justice than in per­sonal gain. If we retain economic growth, must it be at the cost of doubling unemploy­ment among minorities, thereby turning them out into an economic wilderness to perish for our sins? And ifwe fall into another recession, and the massive Reagan deficit crashes down upon our heads, on whom will the millions of Americans who experience JX>Verty for the first time, wreak their vengeance? Americans may or may not be able to solve the problems which face this country in the coming years. But we must refuse to meet our problems by making our neighbors into scapegoats. When God spoke to the ancient Hebrews, he set criteria by which a nation will be judged. Among these are how it treats the widow, the orphan, and the stranger within its borders. We must not allow our nation to fall into judgement by failing to heed God's call to be a just society. There is another, and a final reckoning for us all. 
Steven Horst is a graduate pbtlosopby stu dent stNotre Dame. 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The sexual overtones of a personal computer 
The recent letters in this esteemed publica­tion had certainly heightened my interest in regard to the debut of "The Women of Notre Dame Calendar." Accounts charging the makers with chauvinism and exploitation turned an ordinary event for me into a colos­sal issue, as I was determined to be in on such 
David Kroeger 
Wednesday's child 
a historic event. "Wow!'' l thought,"All this and sexism too!" Who could have asked for more at Notre Dame? 
Yet, as I looked at the calendar, I was severely disappointed. It had about as many sexual overtones as a personal computer. As for exploitation, I could find no examples. Those pictured looked more like they were enjoying themselves than as if they were being exploited. And as for chauvinism, not a single one carried a broom or a mop. Try as I might, I saw no Endust in any of the back­grounds, either. 
Something was obviously amiss. Either this was a cleverly forged calendar or someone really needed to see an eye doctor. It is a com­mon conception that young men and adoles­cents buy sexually explicit magazines and hide them under their beds. With all due respect, I cannot in any way, shape, or form see myselfdoing this to "The Women ofNotre Dame Calendar." 
It is, perhaps, a sad commentary on our so­ciety that we have so much interest in pornog­raphy. It is an even sadder fact, however, that many do not attempt to distinguish between our existence as sexual beings and pornogra­phy. They cry out for reform in everything that even remotely smacks ofa sexual nature. Movies, African tribes, and even Barbie dolls must go. 
riow ndiculous! Next to a can of spinach, "The Women of Notre Dame Calendar" is about the most sexually unblatant item I can 

conceive in my mind. It is a travesty that some have to ruin this tribute to the presence ofwo­men on this campus. It speaks of11 certain ig­norance, nay, pervertedness, that some people need to run from the fact that there are two sexes in our world and that, yes, they do get together and "make babies." It is a sign of immaturity to disclaim everything as pornog­raphy when it was God, in His Wisdom, who. · created both man and woman and not some androgynous organism which was born fully clothed. 
The claims that the calendar is exploitive are based on some warped reasoning that we are not truly human. To assert such charges points to somethingso detrimental to the con­cept of life that no "girlie magazine" could ever approach it. It is necessary, during the course of our short lifetimes, to live in a way that appreciates the fact that there are men and that there are women. To live on one side of this two-edged coin is to miss something essential to fulfillment. 
Try as I might, I cannot think of a way to placate those who persist in condemning the calendar as sexist. Perhaps we can arrest those undoubtedly crude individuals who took the pictures of the chosen women in those spe· dally prepared "back rooms" which we hear so much about. Perhaps we can publish the names ofthose who were so evil as to buy the calendar and to actually, God forbid, promote charity through that purchase. Or, we can condemn those terribly loose people who were in the pictures; kick them out ofany ex­tracurricular activities that they participate in and take away any eligibility that they might have in the Miss America contest. Certainly, their careers would be ruined were these photographs to be published at a later date when their transgressions would not be ac­cepted by an angry public. As a last resort, one can certainly burn all of the calendars on the steps ofthe Administration Building. Now that would certainly show them. 
David Kroeger is a Sophomore in tbe Col­lege ofArts & Letters Honors Program and Is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
r----------------------------....;;_-----------------;:···i, 
Got an opinion, drop us a line 
Viewpoint not only provides you an opportunity to respond to tbe columns, articles and Illustrations printed Ibis newspaper, but tbrougb 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you can address Issues wblcb bave not been raised to your. satisfaction In Ibis newspaper. VIewpoint encourages all ofIts readers to fully expore and voice tbetr opinions. Simply send your letter toP. 0. Box Q or de/lever tt to our office. Letters sbould be no longer tban 150 words In length and guest columns sbould not exceed 600 words. All worlts must be signed. 

"ielYP.~O~i=n=t======================~~============M=o=n=~=y=,N==ov=~==~=r=1=9=,1=9=8=4~=P=~=e~5 
P.O.BoxQ 
Why are Democrats 
,I 
so self-righteous? 
DearEditor: 
Where did the Democrats pick up the su­
perior, condescending attitude that they are 
the moral party in this country? I am nonpar­
tisan, but it angers me to see the Democrats 
flaunt this holier than thou attitude. 
No matter how much the Democrats deny 
it, from an economic standpoint, most people 
are better off now than they were four years 
ago. Inflation is down and taxes have been cut. 
If only the rich were helped by the tax cuts, 
then how come mainly blue-collar, tradition­
ally Democratic states like New York and New 
Jersey supported Reagan? Besides, those 
"rich" include the parents ofmost students at 
Notre Dame, most of whom earn less than 
l00,000 dollars per year but pay 50 percent of 
their income in taxes. The very rich were 
relatively unaffected by the tax cut because 
they pay little to begin with. I ask you, is it fair 
that your dad pays half his income for which 
he works as hard as any laborer? 
Is it more Christian to give people money or 
to get them to help themselves? Social pro­
grams are widely abused; Reagan's cuts tried 
to eliminate this waste, not persecute the dis­
advantaged. As far as Social Security goes, 
Reagan has pledged continually that it will not 
be cut. 
Sure Reagan believes in peace through 
strength, and deterrence has worked, but the 
Democrats seem to lose their hearing when 
Reagan says his ultimate goal is to wipe all nu­
clear weapons from the face of the Earth. 
Everyone who is honest knows Geraldine 
Ferraro was a token and not the most qualified 
person for the job. But that is okay · the 
breakthrough had to be made sometime. The 
Republicans have their own token in judge 
Sandra Day O'Connor. As for fairness, what, 
besides equal pay for equal work, do women 
need that they do not already have? 
Finally, who supports the preservation of 
the sanctity ofhuman life by proposing to ban 
abortion? 
Granted, Reagan was not the ideal can­
didate. His policy in Central America needs 
work. In fact, if there is an invasion of 
Nicaragua and the draft is reinstated, I will be 
one ofthose who goes to jail for disobeying it. 
However, Reagan does have the charism and 
enthusiasm essential for a president. He also 
seems to be doing what the American people 
want. So where do the Democrats get their 
self-righteousness? 
DonaldSeymour Morrissey Hall 
Reagan's policies 
are questionable 
Dear Editor: 
K.R. Munro's Nov.l3 letter titled "Some are pleased with Reagan's policies" made such an impression on me that I feel compelled to respond. 
I would first like to congratulate Munro, on his outstanding achievements. Undoubtedly, he must have done very well in high school to be attending a university of the caliber of Notre Dame. His letter shows that he has many abilities as well as a strong sense of the work ethic. But, where did Munro get these talents? Who taught him how to refine them and who instilled in him the idea that an edu­cation is invaluable? Ifhe is like me, it was his middle or upper class parents. 
In Munro's letter, he sarcastically stated in reference to the poor, "I do not think we have the mere responsibility to house them, feed them and educate them. I think we should get them all nice suburban homes, with 2.5 children, a dog, a nice car, and a cabin in Wis­consin." I do not like the idea of people freeloading any more than Munro, but let us first take a closer look at the people we call freeloaders. Who taught them about life? Who were their role models? I'd guess that they too probably looked to their parents, except many of their parents probably never had much money or never even received high school diplomas. As we go through college (probably with the assistance of our parents) what gives us the right to call others freeloaders? Have we given society anything that makes us worthy ofsuch assistance? 

Munro praises those who are "intelligent, hardworking, ambitious and willing to take a risk to improve their lives." Yet many of our "freeloading" friends do not have the luxury to take such risks. Their immediate needs demand all of their resources. It is indeed a difficult task to convince someone who has next to nothing that sustained hard work, planning and sacrifice will yield the greatest benefits in the long term. 
Is it right for our government to just aban­don such people until they realize that "freeloading" will not be tolerated? I do not think so. But is it any better for our govern­ment to continually give these people hand­outs? Probably not. Maybe, an agreeable medium between the two can be found. I feel part ofour answer lies in education; devoting more resources to family planning programs, youth service organizations, inner-city high schools and vocational schools will all help to reduce the nembers ofthe truly needy. 
We at Notre Dame are hard working and intelligent and our futures look promising. But let us always remember that we have been blessed with the opportunity to develop our talents. It is not our place to neglect those who have not had the same chances we have had. As Americans, we take pride in calling our home the land of opportunity. As Catholics, we seek to preserve the dignity of every human person. Let us not let our successes corrupt us because up to now, we have been awfully lucky. 
Samuel A. A wad SorlnHall 

Interior minister misrepresents his past 
Dear Editor: 

On Monday night Amadhullah Amadhullah, a former Interior Minister ofMghanistan prior to the Soviet invasion, spoke in the Ubrary Auditorium. His message was simple: the god­less communists are evil and bent on hell, and you (we) must not take your democracy for granted and must support and, if necessary, die for it. He backed up this viewpoint with his personal story oftorture at the hands ofSoviet backed authorities and with accounts ofhow the Soviets and the pro-Soviet Afghani forces plundered and devestated much ofthe nation, killing adults and children alike. 
Yet there are several disturbing things about Amadhullah's talk. One is factual; he deliberately misrepresented the government of which he was a key figure as democratic, which was simply not the case. But more dis­turbing were the things he conveniently did not talk about. Not only was he a key figure of an oppressive non-democratic government but he was the Minister ofthe Interior. He was directly in charge of the secret police; that is to say that he controlled the very means of oppression for the state. 
During his tenure the Afghani government was not shy about using such means. Many minority populations and opposition ele­ments were subjected to the very methods of torture that Amadhullah himself came to ex­perience. Amadhullah was no doubt a signifi­
cant  figure  in  the  development  of  
sophisticated  means  of oppression  in  Af.  
ghanistan.  

.The Observer-= 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews ot the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of vary1ng opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
These measures were learned in large part 
in counsel with the Soviets; it was pointed out 
in the introductory notice, but not in the talk, 
that he had made several important trips to 
the Soviet Union, and these were certainly in 
part to gain assistance in the development of 
his various organs, the secret police included. 
At one point Amadhullah expressed satisfac­
tion at the fact that the individuals who di­
rected his torture are now dead; one wonders 
how many survivors of torture at the hands of 
Amadhullah's organs felt redeemed when he 
himself was consumed by his own repressive 
organs. 

Probably the most disturbing thing about 
the evening was the uncritical, almost wild ap· 
plause he received from the audience (he was, 
after all, introduced as having directed the se­
cret police, a fact the audience seemed to for­
get). 

Certainly the courage he showed in his 
determination not to submit to the new sys­
tem of oppression and to get out of the 
country with his family intact is highly com­
mendable; I cannot myself say how I would 
have reacted in his shoes. Yet the deliberate 
avoidance ofhis past (as witnessed by the fact 
that he started his discussion with the night 
the Soviets attacked) was unfortunate; it bor­
dered on cowardice. Amadhullah heroically 
met the challenge of oppression within his 
own country; one wonders if he has, or will 
meet the challenge ofcoming to grips with his 
past. 

jim Butterfield Graduate Student 
Not all graduate students are Democrats 
Dear Edt tor: 

I am writing in response to the letter ofNov. 14, in which it was stated that there were a number of Democrats among the graduate students, and that this reflected their insight, experience, and superior intelligence. I do not doubt that there are many Democrats among grad students; being a grad student myself, I noticed a lot ofsentiment for Walter Mondale. But as a Republican who proudly voted for President Reagan, I feel many grads are missing an important issue. 
That issue is leadership. That is why many thoughtful Americans voted for Ronald Reagan. They realized it takes leadership to pass a tax cut through a Congress controlled by the other party, and then to stick with it through some tough periods; it took leader­ship to commit U.S. troops to faraway Lebanon in the cause of peace, and then plain guts to call them home when the mission did not work out; leadership was called for when American medical students and innocent civilians were threatened by Communist thugs on Grenada; and finally, it was, by the president's words and example that America has begun to feel better about itself. Think how much better Vietnam veterans must feel, since President Reagan has so clearly recognized their contributions; remember the ceremonies honoring the Unknown Sol­dier last Memorial Day? 
My purpose here is simply to state that there were good reasons to vote for Reagan, and I think the American people were wise enough to see them. They saw that President Carter was unable to exercise this kind of leadership. Theyremember that famous presi­dents like Uncoln or Roosevelt had this quality · perhaps leadership was foremost in both ofthese presidents' capabilities. Finally, I frankly do not think they saw great leadership in a man who seemed imprisoned in his prom­ises to the AFL-CIO, NEA, hispanics and blacks. So I do not think 59 percent of the American electorate (or 61 percent of Notre Dame students) are less intelligent than Notre Dame graduate students. Instead, I think they know what it takes to be an effective presi­dent, and this president has what it takes: lead­ership. 
KevtnSmant Graduate Student 

Students need to know about activities 
Dear Editor: 
On Saturday, Nov. 10, the Second City Touring Company came to Washington Hall and performed a fantastic show to a packed house. So where was our "student newspa­per?" It was running around campus taking pictures ofbuildings, ofcourse. 
Mildly curious as to why this oversight oc­curred, I asked the features editor. She replied, "We don't do 'one-nighters." The one-night Bangles concert got a lengthy review but the Budweiser Comedy Shop and Second City didn't even get captions. Even the Chicago Tribune reviewed Second City. 
Alot ofhard work goes into organizing new activities for the campus. It is only fair we get the backing of our newspaper. We have the social alternatives that people have been screaming for, but they have to know about them. Ifyou are going to proclaim yourself a student newspaper, Observer, then please act like one. 
janetGrojean Campus Entertainment Commissioner 


'j 
J 
l 
l 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Managmg Editor . . . . . . Mark Worscheh News Ed1tor .. .......... _Sarah Hamilton News Ed1tor ....... _.... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrskl Sports Editor.. .......... M1chael Sullivan V1ewpomt Editor . . . . . . . . . . . Dave Grote Features Editor. . . . . . . . . . .. Mary Healy Photo Ed1tor . ............... Pete Laches 
j

Department Managers 
Business Manager. .......... Dave Taiclet Controller . . . . . . . . . . ..... Maripat Hor'ne Advertising Manager. . . . . . Anne Culligan Circulation Manager. . . . ..... Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager ... ...... Kevin Williams Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler Pro1ect Manager ........... Amy Stephan, 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Accent There's 01ore to NO than the 
S
o, how well do you know your campus?

( 
Last week students, faculty, and staffracked their brains to 
c 
remember where they had seen that statue ofSt. Christopher, and 
( 
whether that spiral tops the South Dining Hall or Morrissey. Some 
{. 
wandered the campus searching for those four simple words: 
(. 
"Congregatio a Sancta Cruce." Though thousands may claim they know their campus, only 1 7 
~I 
climbed the steps ofLaFortune (that's the building on the main
(, ( quad next to Crowley Music Hall) to submit their entry to The 
(, Obseroer's campus photo contest. 
( I 
It did not take long for someone to locate all 14 of the sculptures, statues, spirals and engravings. At 3:35p.m. Monday, Nov. 12, the same day the contest was published, the winning entry was
r received. Kathleen Hunter and Patty Reid, two juniors from Breen-Phillips Hall collaborated on the winning entry and will share the S 15 prize. They should come up to The Observer office before 4:30 to claim that prize. 
Congratulations to the winners and everyone else who knows their campus. As for the rest ofyou, take a look around, there is a lot to see. And for most ofyou, there's only four years in which to 
( appreciate it. ( Below are the answers to the contest. r 
( 
( ~-( l.LyonsHaU 
~ 
( 
~ I. 8. 
t 
~ 
{( 
{ {, 
( 
2.

( t 
( 9... 
~ 
( 
( 
~· 
( 3. 
{ 
-~ 
( 10. 
~ 
( l 
l ( / 6. St. Ed\Vard's Hall 
I 4. 
' 
f

( II. 
,.,.. ·>-.. 
~ ... ,.. 
5. 
12. 

11. Ho\Vard Hall 





6. 
13. 



2. South Dinill 


7. Alumni Hall 

......--------------.---------------~--­
Monday, November 19, 1984-page 6-7 
------~--­

Dome-take a look around 

ag Hall 3. Corby HaD 4. Washington 5. O'Shaughnessy 

8. Sacred Heart 9. lnfinnary 10. Columba Hall 


----~~------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------~--~ 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame RowinR Club will be meeting tanorrow from 7 pm. to 8 pm. inthe LaFortune tittle 1beatre. All money aai sponsor sheets from the ergothon will be due then. Formore infonnation, call Patti at 283-40'Xl. -The Observer 
Intetball basketball officialswill be meeting tanomYw at 5 pm. in the football auditoriwn at the ACC. Anyone who is interested may atterxl. -The Observer 
After n~··!..~ivn.JK break a weight training clinic is being sponsoredby NVA. The course will be run by Notre Dame strength and coooitioningcoach Garyweil. Therewill be two mee~: Nov. 27at 7pm. in the football auditoriwn in theACC and Nov. 29 at 7pm. in the varsityweight room in theACC. A $2 fee will be charged at the door, butparticipants must preregister at the NVA office by Monday, Nov. 26. -1beObserver 
1he Saint~s Soccer Oub completed its 
full season yesterday with a 3-1 win over Northwestern University, to finish with a final record of 12-5-1. -The Observer. 
Observer Soorts Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday ~~ 4pm. at The Observer office on the third floor ofUIForrune. Briefs must bewritten dearly.-1beObserver 
Box Score 
Monday, November 19, 1984-page 8 
"Our experience last year really helped us," said Stanford coach
Stanford Irish
Chris Soha. "Last year we were sort of just glad to be in the finals. This
continuedfrom page 12 continued/rom page 12 
year we wanted to win and get some wide-open receiver spoiling a sure respect for our team." From their Lions' coach. "I think we have good touchdown. The halfended with the reactions after the game, Soha and kids and a good staff, we just have to score 0-0, as both defenses, Sawin obviously felt as if they had go home and start again. We're obvi­dominated the action, as expected. earned that respect and more. Sawin ously not throwing the ball well. We 
In the second half, Stanford was tossed his helmet high into the air usually depend heavily on the pass. put in a hole at its own 13-yard line and thrust his arms above his head. And we're just not executing well. I following a booming 48-yard punt Soha was carried off the field on the don't think the layoff hurt us. Notre by Howard. Sorin's defense stopped shoulders ofhis players. Dame had a layoff, too. They just ex­Stanford tailback Jack Gleeson on ecuted better than us. They ran and third and two to force a punt. The passed well and had some good third kick went higher than it did far and down calls early in the game. Sorin started in Stanford territory for 
Farley

the third time in the game. "I have said all year that if Notre continuedfrompage 12 Dame can get some people back 
Gleeson totaled ten yards in two from injuries, they can beat anyone. carries to give Stanford a first down against the swarming Farley defense. Notre Dame played a great game and on the 27-yard line. On the next P.E. was forced to pass on fourth I hope Faust gets credit for it." play, Sawin took the handoff from down after Katie Nowalk sacked Basham and started right. Sorin's quarterback Jenny Yuhl for a 7 yard defense overran the play and Sawin loss. Farley defensive back Genie There was a lot of talk about bowl was able to cut back to the left and }ouch picked off the pass and scam­bids after Saturday's game, espe­race for 36 yards before being pered 32 yards for an insurance cially because representatives from caught from behind. touchdown. seven different bowl committees 
On first down, Basham fumbled If}ohn}anicki (P.E. head coach) is (Fiesta, Gator, Bluebonnet, Hall of the snap but he was able to fall on the Knute Rockne of women's foot­Fame, Freedom, Independence, and the ball for a two-yard loss. Gleeson ball then}erryJudd is the Ara Parseg­Cherry) were on hand. But Faust had lost another yard on second down hian," says England who also only one thing on his mind after the and a third down pass fell incom­credited center Trish Booker for ex­game. plete. Faced with a fourth down, the cellent blocking. Stanford players looked confused as Farley was the quiet giant all year, "I'm just interested in Southern to whether they were going to punt but they were anything but silent Cal," said the Irish Coach. "We have or go for the first down. Finally, Stan­yesterday. Farley's Finest them next week in the Coliseum. ford lined up for the fourth down thoroughly dominated P.E. both of­play as the crowd roared its ap­fensively and defensively and rightly Things like bowls take care of them proval. deserve the title ofchampion. selves." 
Basham set up in the pocket and 
s.tunlay'a Game Penn State 7 0 0 0 -7 Nmrr Dame 7 24 ~ 10 -44 
Scoria& 
ND -Pinkett 1 run (Carney IdeI<) 
PS-Mumford 2 run ( Gandtano kicl<) 
ND -Pinkett 17 run (Carney klcl<) 
ND -Pinkett 66 run (Carney ldcl<) 
ND -Carney 28 FG 
ND -Pinkett 1 run (Carney klcl<) 
ND -Carney 17 FG 
ND-Carney 47 FG 
ND -Jdferson 1 run (Carney IdeI<) 
PS ND 
First downs 12 30 
Rushing attempts 36 60 
Nrt Yarm Rushing Ill 276 
Nrt Yarm Passing 58 267 
Passrs comp-attemptrd 5-15 20-29 
Had intercrptrd 2 1 
Total Net Yarm 169 543 
Fumblrs-lost 1-1 1-1 
Penaltics-yar<b 5-40 7-56 
Punts-average 8-38 1-37 

lndMdual Leaden 
RUSHING-Penn Statr: Dozier 10-44; S. Smith 5·23; Strang 3-18; Mumford 5-11; Woom 1-11; Kniznrr 3·10; •Notre Dame: Pinkett 34-t95; Smith ~-39;Jdferson 5-17; Brown 1-14; Brooks 1-9; Flemons 4-4; Sums 2-3; Grooms 1-2; deHuecl< l·t; O'Neill 1·1; Bcuerldn 5-( ·3); 
PASSING-PennState: Knizner 3-5-0, 29; Strang 1-4-1, 32; Shafer 1-6-1, (·3); Notrr Dame: Brurr­lcln 20-28-1, 267; Grooms 0-1-0, 0; 
RECEMNG -Penn State: Giftopoulos 2-t5; DIMidlo 1-32; Alpen 1-14; Manoa 1-(-3); Notre Dame: Brown 5-60; Jackson 4-41; Howard 3-51; Bavaro 3-44; Smith 2-11; Pinkett 1-36; Ward 1-16; Gray 1-8; 
Attendance -59,075 
spotted Steber down the left sideline. The pass was slightly un­derthrown but Steber had beaten his man by five yards and had no prob­lem gathering in the ball and sprint­ing into the endzone for the score. Sorin blocked the extra point to leave the score at 6-0. 
"We were never going to punt," said Sawin about the apparent confu­sion before the touchdown play. "We were using a new spread forma­tion that we hadn't used before and people weren't sure who was supposed to be in the game." 
The interhall championship is a fine reward for all the Stanford players, who came within one vic­tory of the title last year. 
Smith signs with Digger 
The list of high school seniors committed to play basketball for Notre Dame next year grew to three yesterday, as 6-2 guard Michael Smith ofLaSalle High School in South Bend announced his intention to join Digger Phelps' squad. 
Smith averaged 17.0 points per game last season for the Lions and also participated in the state track finals. 
He joins Sean Connor, a 6-7 forward from Zeigler, Ill., and Mark Stevenson, a 6-5 swingman from Philadelphia, Pa., in com­mitting to play for the Irish next season. 
Phelps is expecting word on the intentions of a big man any day now, who would use the last offour available scholarships next year. More on Smith and the decision of the other player will appear in tomorrow's paper. 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is 10 cents per five l'harac­
Classifieds 
ters 


Need Rlc:ten to Detroit AI-. for 
ORDER YOUR CAKE TODAY FROM MORRISSEY MEN DRINK THEIR BATH Dear Tlg8!' Woman, I just wrote this to Thtinkaglvlng llreek. WIH leeva Wed. 
NO CAKE SERVICE THRU IRISH GAR· WATER. LOVE. LYONS 18) I love you. And only you. I watch your 
'-----N_o_T_IC_Es__.l I LOST/FOUND 
Nov. 21 and return Sun. Nov 25. Call DENS!!! SURPRISE A FRIEND WITH A f1Very I'TIO\Ie. You're a goddess. And th811 Melinda et 283--3716 8-DAY CAKE TODAY!!!! some. No, you·re a tigresa. Oh, yeeeeesseass! Untamed. raw animalTYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. LOST: A BROWN PURSE WITH Mis­HELPII RIDERS NEEDED TO FLY TO CAUFORNIA FOR A I love you 426 Flanner!--always,Penny emotion! That is what I feel when I scope 
SOURI ID. AT THE SENIOR BAR ON PHILA./SOUTH JERSEY AREAl! 
WEEKEND· 01' anywhere else in the U.S. Pensikola you in the dining hall. You are the womanTYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4062. SAT. PLEASE CONTACT 3085. 
LEAVING ON TUES. 11/20 AND RE­One round trip airline ticket for sate -to of my dreams. TURNING ON SUN. 11/25. CALL JEFF anywhere you feel like going BUT all To us PENNY P.you'reworth a MILLION! RRRRROOOOOOOOMAMAR·TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81117 LOST: One pair of yellow s-t pants. 3851 travel must be completed by 12/17. 
RRRRRRRR!!! XXXXOOOOO L011e,NOTRE DAME printed on both lega. Lost 

Taking best offer. Makes a great gift! Call Happy Birthday Ortlit!Pickles come from Tiger Man at Rock on 11-13 about 5:30p.m. Please Roommate wanted starting Jan 1 Castle 1216. cucumbers,prunes from plums, your 18 
call Steve at 2n-8491 if found. Pt Apts $145/month plus Utit. Gall 2n-now,go call someone and talk 
TYPING SERVICE at reaaonable ratee. 6463 I NEED A RIDE to St. Louis 101' Thanksgiv­erotic!Love,Spanky ,Bethy,and teen Very prof88110fl811y done on the latest LOST: GOLD CHARM BRACELET, M.F.: I can't believe you dor1'1 remember,
ing. Will pay the usual. Call Maureen at IBM and XEROX word processing equip­THURS NITE. REWARD OFFERED!! you led me on in late September. That
1333. ment. Please call 287·5157. WiM deliver CALL 1822. was when you let me know exactly where 
and pick up. Copying service also you wanted to go. But now you're shying 
Buy MEN OF N.D. CALENDARS today available. WHOEVER MISTOOK MY "LONDON away today. Corne on let loose, be free be
FOR SALE 

from 6-9 in all N.D. and SMC women's JJ--SEEMS TO ME THAT YOU WOULD FOG" RAINCOAT FOR THEIRS FRIDAY GAY1-Uttle Boy Blue
dorms HAVE MADE A BET rEA CALENDAR EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MORNING AT THE SOUTH CAFE, I'D 
GIRL THAN SOMEONE WE KNOW.­MRS. COKER, 233-7009 LIKE MINE BACK. NO QUESTIONS GOING TO CHICAGO FOR BREAK? THE CHEAPEST ONE WAY ROUTE TO somebody with 20/20 MORALLY CASUAL IS THE ONLY WAY 
ASKED. RETURN TO THE SOUTH THE STUDENT ACT.BOARD AN­TO LIVE AND HAVE FUN 
CHICAGO COSTS ONLY $10 IF YOU TYPING CAFE BASEMENT OFF1CE-PLEASE. NOUNCES ITS $10 ONE WAY FARE TO 
TAKE niE STUDENT ACT.BOARD Jackie Boggs AND FROM CHICAGOS OHARE AIR­BUSES. LEAVES N.D. WED.,NOV.21ST BErrY DOES THE KITCHEN! 684-8793 LOOKOUT! I COULD BE THE DRIVER PORT. BUSES LEAVE N.D. AT 1 :30P.M. AT 1:30 p.m. and AND BRINGS YOU BEHIND YOU and my purse containing ON WED.,NOV.21st AND BRING YOU BACK TO N.D. ON SUNDAY,NOV. 25th 
Yo FAE! Lets go to Emerald City! Wait­my glaalea and contaca "disappeared" BACK TO N.D. FROM CHICAGO AT 7 AT 7P.M. SIGNUPS AT RECORD here come some Kroger officials ctever1y NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES from Pulte's Hlllloween party. Pteue help P.M.,SUNDAY,NOV.251h.ITS ONLY $10 

STORE. 
disguised aa NO lawn a"f1W. 20 mph277-eo-tB a legally blind student by contacting me as EACH WAY AND ITS THE BEST PRICE BETTY'S UNDER speed limits, random dancers ,lookslikeaPICKUP AND DELIVERY to its whereabouts--284-5074. IN TOWN. SIGN UPS IN RECORD 

Whatever happened to Chuck Barris? YOU CAN TELL 
basket case to me. Thanks 101' the ride 

STORE. 
BECAUSESHEOOTOUTTHE 
Friend. Dorothy Gale(the small and OAR HOUSE: COI.D BEER & UQUOR, CHOCOLATE CHIPS 
meek).FOR SALE ONE HAYES CARRY OUT 'Tll 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE 
OPERATION BRAINSTORM SMARTMODEM MODEL 300 IN BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.
WANTED 

ORIGINAL BOX. TWO HUNDERD DOL­..............................................,.;............... 
LARS. ORIGINAL COST $289 PLUS 
Would you beli811e -I had a ride to St. TAX AND SHIPPING THIS IS A AUTO Louis for Thanksgiving Break, but my BErrYIll To agirt named Colleen Ride Needed:To Rocheater,N.Y. area lor DIAL-AUTO ANSWER MODEM. CON­who I think Ia keen
mom needs me to come home aday early WHArS COME OVER YOU???? Thankagiven Break. WiM share usual ex­TACT DAVID RIPLEY, BOX 4. DEPT OF I)uat wanted to..Y
to goturtcey hunting?lf I don't gethome byNov. 12th to 20th ~· Morn"s expecting me to caNe the BIOLOGY,UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE Tues. night. my whole family may go HAPPY BIRTHDAY! turkey 10 piNM help !!! Call Basil at 2275 DAME NOTRE DAME, IN 46556 

hungry. Please give me a ride Tues. Just . Do it fOI' my mom! 
call 283-1933. I promise not to bring my QUOTE OF THE WEEK: M.A.M. 
FOR SALE: 1963 Fender Musicmuter shotgun in the car. Ask 101' Joe. "A man is more interested in a woman NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI OVER electric guitar. Excellent condition. $200 who is interested in him, BREAK. CAN LEAVE WEDNESDAY. 01' best offer. Call2651. than he is in one with beautiful legs." Dorothy David, come on down! W1Ll SHARE USUAL. CALL DAN AT 2275 -PLEASE HELP!!!!!!!! RIDERS NEEDED TO CLEVELAND, Whatever happened toTom Snyder? 
PITISBURGH. DC AND CHARLOTIES­Riders .--Mid to St. Loula.teaving Tuee. VILLE. VA. LVG. WED, 5 PM, RET. SUN. FISH HEADS, FISH HEADS, ROLLY­
PERSONALS r
around 4:00, coming back Sunday. Call CALL JOAN 233-9210 DAYS, 233-2549 POLLY FISH HEADS, EAT THEM UP,Do you love Kinko the Clown??? Well, he 
Maripat 01' Jennifer at 277-2851 . NITES. YUM. i"m tired andi want to leave this 'rag' and tov• YOO, REALLY, REEEMAU.LY. 
LET THEM EAT CAKE!!!! flO home to my nice warm bed. Show your affection by joining the KINKO 
MAM I Uke You I Love You I Am In Love FAN CLUB T-0-D-A·Y!! Mail $3.95 plua Ride needed to Peoria, IL 101' Thanksgiv­LET THEM EAT CAKE!!!! With You WiU You MARRY Me? MPL She came to the NO scene, Developed CAH. MAP. MYM, TRISH, MEUS, KEW, $1.00 p&h to: KINKO THE CLOWN FAN ing. Would Hke to leave by 1 PM on Tuee­her own cuisine On popcorn and Tab She &DEB, CLUB, c/o Goobe, UNO. ReaMy, reeeal­dlly. catl Colleen at 3465. GTW Happy Birthday! I hope it wiN be the Peg, Lets get married and have tots of fought off the flab Oh, Deirdre you are 10 You guys are the best friendll oould ask lly!!!!l beet!Tl.BB kids named SHEP! lean -HAPPY EIGHTEEN!!!!! for.Have agreat Turtcey Day. Love, T 
The Observer Monday, November 19, 1984-page 9 
IMMEDIATE JOB OPENING 
On Campus: 

Groundskeeping, leaf raking, snow removal · 12 hrs./week, flexible to student's schedule NO FINANCIAL AID REQUIRED Contact: Student Employment Office 
109 Administration Building 239-6436 
The Notre Dame Shakespeare Society 
presents the film version of William Shakespeare's tragedy 
Othello 
starring Laurence Olivier 
7, 9:30 Engineering Auditorium Nov. 19th $1 donation 

SENIORS 

MAKE YOUR NEXT STEP COUNT 
When you are considering options for next year, Don't forget: 

Mary Ann Roemer  M. J. Murray  
Center for Social Concerns  Associate Office  
239-7949  239-5521  

Wood stresses hard work 
Belles' new coach ready for season 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Sports Writer 
Hard work is a top priority for any team that has high hopes for a suc­cessful season. Under the direction of first year Head Coach Marvin Wood, the Saint Mary's basketball team certainly has it's work cut out for it after finishing with a 4-18 record last year. Wood, who will take his team to Sienna Heights Col­lege for its first test of the 1984-85 campaign tomorrow night is very optimistic about the prospective season. 
"We have some pretty outstand­ing young ladies," says Wood. "I've been pleasantly surprised in the amount of overall ability, and I've also been impressed with their wil­lingness to work. They've attempted to do everything I've asked. 
The Saint Mary's coach, with 29 years ofcoaching Indiana basketball behind him, adds that when the team works out, there is an air of "healthy enthusiasm" which allows the players to be very competitive. In addition to the regularly sched­uled practices, a Wood noted that the girls will often be found training on the weights on their own time. 
With nine underclassmen on this year's squad, Wood hopes this dedication will continue to be ex­hibited throughout the season be­hind the leadsership of the team's three-letterwinning seniors. 
At 5-9, third-year player Betsy Ebert is the Belles' tallest player and is one of the team's two centers. In their fourth year of action for Saint Mary's are 5-5 guard Teresa McGin­nis and 5·5 forward Elaine Seuss. 
"I'm hoping for super leadership from these ladies," says Wood. "They know the caliber of the oppo­sition they're going to be playing this season." 
Seuss is looking forward to im­proving last year's record. "We're a good team without height. Last year we lost games by 

MONDAY NIGHT IS ACTION NIGHT 
*AU you can eatspaghettifor$2.491 
*2.50pitchersl *50¢ piua slices during 
game 1 
*Darttournament at9pm with cash prizel 
2046 South Bend Ave. 272-4935 
Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt, TUrkey, Greece and Spain. Our 100 day voyages sail in February and September offering 12-15 transferable hours of credit from more than 60 voyage­related courses. The S.S. UNIVERSE is an American-built ocean liner, registered in Liberia. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. 
For details call toll-free: (800} 854-0195 or write: Semester at Sea Institute for Shipboard Education University ofPittsburgh, 2E ForbesQuadrangle Pittsburgh, PA 15260 
two or four points and toward the 
end of the season morale was 
down," comments the Grand Blanc, 
Mich., native. "This year we are 
looking for a better season." 
The sole representative of the 
junior class is 5-8 forward Beth 
Kreber. 
"She is a very talented young lady 
with great skills and quickness along 
with being super aggressive," says 
Wood. 
Coming off a successful freshman 
campaign is 5-6 sophomore Kris 
Pantelleria, a starter at the guard po­
sition last year, who Wood expects 
will continue to make strong contri­
butions both offensively and 
defensively. 
Classmates Mariclaire Driscoll 
and Lorri White are going to be 
counted on for their good quickness 
and outside shooting. White, at 5-8, 
can be utilized at both the forward 
and guard spots while the 5-5 Dris­
coll will concentrate on her duties 
in the backcourt. 
Comprising the largest part ofthis 
year's team are six freshmen, 5-8 for­
ward Rachel Bir, 5-8 center Step­
hanie Duke, 5-7 forward/guard 
Megan Heller, 5-7 guard Loretta 
Raycroft, and 5-7 forward Donna 
Wolf. 
Wood has high expectations of 
the newcomers. "They are a super 
group who will contribute con­
siderably to the program. They will 
give the team a lot of depth," con­
tinues Wood. "The freshmen will 
contribute right away. We won't 
have to wait." 
With six freshmen and seven re­
turning letterwinners, Wood is un­
derstandably excited about the 
depth this team possesses. 
"We can use nine or ten girls on 
the fioor and the number ofveterans 
is a plus for any team," emphasizes 
'Wood. 
Wood does see one glaring weak­
ness in the team, however. 
"We don't have anyone taller than 
5-9 which results in two major prob­
lems -rebounding and defense 
against taller players," remarks 
Wood. Buthe thinks the team's over­
all quickness and pretty good 
outside shooting will fill the void left 
by the lack ofheight. 
As with all teams with a new head 
coach, there is a period of adjust­
ment but Wood sees the team 
making good progress. "They (the 
players) are learning a new system 
and have done a super job," says 
Wood. 
Wood feels he reflects the wishes 
ofthe team in terms ofthe short and 
long-term goals he has set for the 
year. 
"We want to be competitive in 
each game and improve individually 
in each game as the season 
progresses. We'd like to be a win­
ner," predicts Wood. 
In addition to the regular season 
games, the Belles will have a chance 
to become a winner at any of the 
three tournaments on their 
schedule this year. 
The Goshen College Tournament on December 1 is the first, followed by the National Catholic Basketball Tournament at Dubuque, Iowajanu­ary 9-13. The Saint Mary's Roundball Classic is scheduled for January 25­
26. Wood hopes to grab a first-place finish in at least one of these tour­neys. 
Closer at hand, however, the Belles must look to their season opener tomorrow night with Sienna Heights. Wood predicts their op­ponent will be a lot better than last year. 
Sienna Heights features a 6-3 cen­ter who could pose a problem if the Belles let her. But Wood feels his team is prepared and will go after them with full-court pressure. 
With this year's array ofyouth and talent along with a much respected coach at the helm, the 1984-85 Saint Mary's basketball team will continue to work hard with hopes of ac­complishing the many goals that lie ahead in the upcoming season. 
Monday, November 19, 1984-page 10
The Observer 

Seniors' emotions run high in last home game 
good leadership qualities," Johnson said. "But when you have the breaks like we did today, it makes every· one's job a lot easier." 
One player whose job was made easy Saturday was punter Mike Viracola. Viracola, who spent most of the game viewing the action from the bench, had only one official punt, coming with less than a minute left in the game. 
"A win like this is great," Viracola related. "We finally played the kind offootball we are capable of. People remember the last home game more than the other ones, and I'm glad it's different from last year." 
Not only will the tans remember the last home football game of the season, but the seniors will hang onto those memories for a lifetime. 
"Words can't describe the great feeling I have to beat Penn State in my last game here," fullback Chris Smith said. "But the feeling of playing for the final time in Notre Dame Stadium finally hit me when we went out for the introductions. I've had some memories and some disappointments. but I wouldn't trade them for anything. I had th'e chance to be out here." 
The frustration had built up for the first group ofcoachGerry Faust's recruits, as well as the freshman class that entered with them. But, the team concept was never sacrificied. 
"We just stuck together and everything turned out all right," added Howard. 
"This was a game for our seniors, and the team went out and did the job, and we got the victory," Faust commented. 
Quarterback Steve Beuerlein, who, like Pinkett had his best indi· vidual performance on the year, in­sisted that the key was consistency. 
"We have the people, but to get them all out there and make only one or two mistakes really helps the team's confidence," Beuerlein said. 
l'his year's senior class had been 3-9 in November up until this season. With a 3-0 record for the month on the line at Southern Cal this weekend, the Irish upperclas· smen plan to use some of that confi· dence again in their ..last" game of the year. 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 
-
By TIIERON ROBERTS 
Spans Writer 
All of the waiting seemed to be worth it. 
After dropping three straight games at Notre Dame Stadium and compiling a l 0-l0 home-field record, the Notre Dame football team, led by its seniors, seemingly erased the almost four years of frustration Saturday. 
Who cares that the Irish turned the ball over twice, or had a couple of unnecessary penalties in crucial situations? Seven bowl representa­tives, probably planning before the opening kickoff to look at the Nit­tany Uons more than at the Irish, quickly changed their sights and focused on the Irish. 
All of the seniors were so jubilant in a buzzing Notre Dame post-game locker room, one would they had won a national championship. To them, the result of the game had nearly that much impact. 
"lbis has been the best game I've participated in," said Joe Howard. "'This is how I wanted it (my last home game) to end. I couldn't see it happening any other way." 
The three straight losses to Penn State weighed heavy in the minds of the seniors who had participated in those games. But many ofthe players feel that the thrashing the Irish gave Penn State more than made up for 

l 
i \ the previous defeats. Many seniors thought back to \ how fast their career of playing at Notre Dame Stadium has gone. "It's really hard to imagine how 
fast the time here went," said captain Larry Williams. "But this game made everything worthwhile. 

1 "We finally got our timing back and we handled their defense," con­
l ) 
tinued Williams. "The linemen like to open holes, and when Allen breaks out like he did today, we love it." 
More than just the senior starters got a taste ofplaying in their last ap· pearance at home. With the game all but broken open in the second half after the Irish steamed to a 31·7 halftime lead, a lot of the lesser­knowns got to see action in the game. 
"I was really ready to get in," tackle Jay Underwood said. "It was to get out there and be a part of the

:~ 
game. I've been itching to play. I really hadn't thought about it too much before, but in the last few days, I've realized that these guys are great, and the won-losS record doesn't dim that fact." 
Although tri-captains JoeJohnson, 
Mike Golic and Williams provide a 

,·. lot of the leadership on the field 
,. during the game, the margin of the score allowed the other seniors to lead the second offensive and defen· sive units. "All of the seniors have shown 


PIZZERIA AND PUB 
130 Dixie Way North Roseland,lndlana (across from Big C Lumber) 
277-4519 
lllaolldew 
16",11tem

~ 
,. 
$6.95 
call before 11 
Explrea11/19/84 

FREE DELIVERY 
Wedl-..dcN ' 16". 1 Item 
$6.95 
call before 11 

Expires 11121/U 
Iunday 16", 11tem 
$6.95 
call before 9:30 Expires 11125/U 
Styling 

531 N. Michigan St., 1m. Phone 233-4957 1m 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••r;!!/1 
AIS 
Shipping and Packaging You ..,rap or ..,e Wrap 3617 Mishawaka Ave Mishawaka at Logan We ship.Exclusiuely 
VPS 
282-2556 
GENERAL MICRO is now offering MACINTOSHES at $1197.00 
Immediate delivery Stop in and see our new SOFTWARE 239-7477 or 283-2726 
...-'
_., ... 
/ ..........
./ ,, 
.--;jt'J l I ,l l \ \)''fo l 
t-l~-...~ 
_j 

Plant a Smile 
DW28S-4242 

d":=:Ho:L.,..__J2:3-0-5:3_0GARDENs 
~-----~---~-~-~­


Monday, November 19, 1984-page 11 
Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 

A/If)AS~ (X=POI(T­POSS/81£ IAfJ(R lJI5Tllf?E­
LEASING IT, ACTt$1ii..Y.

ell!,
AIJ-PRINC£, I'M HONCFEP ANC&5, /t¥I.ER. FAIWPS, 
ANO ~ I'lL 50 IUJKH».1411PI
5PIRJT5?
TO Pfi&SE:NT YOU IV/711 lHIS f.APtXS ~ fWCt PRtJTEC· 
GIVIN6 M& 1D >aR f.)(fJR£$I()N
fAJHJff!VI~
TT<A017JONIIL HAfTliWGAR· 7a/,7H/fTsa<JOF 7HIN6. 
7HI5? OF Gl?lfT/7UIJE.
5PJR/~?
"-LANP! 
\ I
" 

:tankMcNamara Je.ff Millar & Bill Hinds 

Bloom Cowtty Berke Breathed The FarSide Gary Larson 




42 Grasshopper 54 Stage prize 45 Yank's foe 55 Uniforms for
The Daily Crossw-ord 
47 Magneto syst. short 49 Man a tiller 56 Brick totes 50 Fold 57 Woodwind ACROSS 38 Exam type 62 Girl friend 11 Wedding 
52 Aits 58 Sawbucks 
1 Aids crooks 39 Weaken a solu-in Gris remnant 53 Alaska port 59 Knock 
6 Deed tion: abbr. 63 Apollo's rival 12 Billy­9 Shortening 40 Dixie city 64 Enticed Williams 
Saturday's Solution 
13 Land of Nod 41 A Randall 65 Duke, e.g. 14 Morse dash 
14 -mater  42 Rote of sports  66 Summer time:  20 Golf doodad  
(brain part)  43 Tire pattern  abbr.  21 Superlative  
15 NY Indian  44 Pig's digs  67 Curves  ending  
16 --colored  45 Joplin tune  24 Weighs  
17 Culture medium  46 Male title  25 George orT.S.  
18 -squad  48 "Have you ­ DOWN  26 Simpleton  
19 Yak  wool?"  1 Nile fauna  28 Mobster's  
22 Born  49 Rigged contest  2 Drivel  retinue  
23 Lift  3 Saarinen  30 Chafflike scale  
24 Female octopus  51 Moo·goo·­ 4 Idaho range  31 Musician  
27 Winter mo.  ·pan  5 Vindictive  Mischa  
29 Favorite  53 Hardly  6 Boring tool  32 Prepared  
30 Foreach  7 Jelly fruits  34 Mow contents  
33 A Root  8 Delays  36 Tex. asset  
35 Cry after a  59 Alb or toga  9 River pier  37 "Leave ­ to  
goof  60 -Scott  1 0 Neighbor of  heaven"  
37 In good shape  61  Orb  N.Mex.  40 Lag behind  


Campus 
•12: 
15 · 1: 10 p.m. ·Workshop,"Nicaragua and the Agricultural Problem," Steve Francis, ND Graduate Student, Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Econ. Dept. 

•4:30 
-6:30 pm. -Ticket Sales, Shakespeare Christmas Festival, North & South Dining Halls, Sponsored by Shakespeare Society. 

•4:45-6:45p.m.-Sale 
ofWomeo ofND Calen­dar, North & South Dining Halls, Sponsored by Holy Cross Hall, S7. 

•6 
p.m. -Student Senate Meedng, Room 122 Hayes Healy. 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting, "Ufe in Mexico," Representa­tive from Foreign Studies Program , 110 O'Shaughnessy. 

•7 
& 9:30 p.m. -Film, "Othello," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Shakespeare Society, Sl. 

•7 
& 9 p.m.-Monday Night FUm Series, "Rebel Without a Cause," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7 
p.m.-Meeting A Lecture, "Space Defense Sys­tems," Andy Rottstien, Fusion Foudation, little Theatre, LaFortune, Sponsored by L-5 Society, Free. 

•8 
p.m. -African A Black Studies FUm, "The White Laager," Center for,Social Concerns. 


TV Tonight 
6:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 
6:30p.m. 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 7:00p.m. 16 M*A*S*H 22 lbree's Company 7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 2 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 
8:00p.m. 16 TV Bloopers & PracticalJokes 22 Scarecrow & Mrs. King 28 Call to Glory 34 Wonderworks 
9:00p.m. 16 Movie· Fatal Vision (Pt. II) 22 Kate & Allie 28 Football-Pittsburgh at New Orleans 34 Heritage 
9:30p.m. 22 Newhart lO:OOp.m. 22 Cagney & Lacey 34 Harry S. Truman: Plain Speaking 
ll:OOp.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 34 Movie -Farewell to Arms 
11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 
22 Simon & Simon/McMillan 12:00 a.m. 28 Newswatch 28 12:30a.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 
28 ABC News Nightline 


...._ 


for late night munchies 

LOOK 
INTO 
DARBY'S 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii in the basement of Lafortune 


p 5 
\: 
I 
1i 
I 
Monday, November 19, 1984-page 12 
<•' SRorts 
Irish avenge previous losses to Penn State, 44-7 
Pinkett leads offensive explosion with fo·ur touchdowns; defense shuts down Lions 
By LARRY BURKE key downfield block from flanker we've got our offensive line back to­Sports Writer Joe Howard on his way to a 66-yard gether. Earlier in the year our line touchdown run. John Carney's extra was banged up, so we couldn't get 
This was supposed to be on'! of point made it 21-7 and the Irish any continuity going because we those close, hard-fought games, the were on their way to a rout. couldn't practice. That's why we kind that has been typical of Notre "That was a perfect play for that couldn't get our runninggame going Dame-Penn State matchups in the situation," said quarterback Steve earlier in the year." last three years, the kind where one Beuerlein of Pinkett's run. "Penn The passing game was just as pro­team scores in the final minute to State was in a cornerback blitz from ductive, as Beuerlein had his best pull out a victory. the backside, so the middle was left game to date with career highs in 
Well, that's what it was supposed wide open. completions (20) and yards (267). l· to be. "After Penn State scored, I Just as he did last year, Beuerlein ,',. '· Instead Saturday's game, Notre thought it was going to be one of came up with a solid performance 
Dame's final home game of the '84 those back-and-forth games, but our against Penn State after playing season, turned out to be something defense came on and did the job," poorly the game before. altogether different· it turned out to continued Beuerlein. "It put a scare "I just tried to forget about the · be a dominant display of offensive into us when they scored the first game before (against Navy) and just 
and defensive football by Notre time right after we did, but after we tried to concentrate on Penn State," Dame, as the Irish rolled up 54 3 came back again and scored to make said the sophomore quarterback. "I yards of offense while holding Penn it 14-7, we thought 'we can beat feel the happiest when I'm consis­State to just 169 total yards, enroute these guys."' tent, and I felt I was prettyconsistent to a 44-7 pounding of the Nittany The Irish kept pouring it on, as today. It feels great, especially Uons. Carney added a 28-yard field goal beating Penn State, the caliber of 
"Notre Dame played a great foot­and Pinkett dove over from the one team that it has. We relaxed and ball game," said Penn State Head to put Notre Dame up 31 -6 at played our game the way I knew we Coach Joe Paterno. "They halftime. The touchdown, Pinkett's could all year long."
... dominated us in every phase of the fourth of the day, tied a career-high Paterno replaced starting quarter­game. The score wasn't even in­which he set against Penn State last back Doug Strang with sophomore dicative of how good they were. I year, and also made him Notre backup John Shafer in the second don't think anyone has ever played a Dame's leader in career touchdowns quarter, but Penn State's offense better halfoffootball against us than with 41. He also moved into second continued to sputter. Meanwhile the they did in the first half. I thought place on Notre Dame's career Irish added two more Carney field maybe we would have a chance in scoring list with 248 points, second goals and an Alonzo Jefl"erson one­the second half, because they were only to Red Salmon's ( 1900-03) yard touchdown run in the second so tough in the first. I was hoping record of 2 50 points. Pinkett halfto forge the final score. they had burnt themselves out. finished the game with 34 carries for Although both teams had an extra 

"We were manhandled by an in­I89 yards, pushing him over the week off prior to the game, it ap­credibly prepared team. You've got I ,000-yard barrier for the second peared that Notre Dame was by far to give Notre Dame credit, they had straight season. the better-prepared team. The com­a well-balanced offense -they threw "I love to play against Penn State," bination of Notre Dame's superior the ball well and ran well, and they said Pinkett. "There's a big motiva­execution and the problems that did a good job ofchanging up on the tional factor involved in playing Penn State encountered made it a line ofscrimmage." them, because I almost decided to long afternoon for Paterno. 


In the early going, it appeared that go to school there. It's a loc offun to the game was going to be one of play against them now. I have a lot of those back-and-forth contests. Both friends that play for Penn State, so I teams drove for touchdowns on always like to do my best." their first possession, and when tail­The junior tailback has apparently back Allen Pinkett scored from 17 recovered from an ankle injury suf­yards out on a third-down draw play fered early in the year, an injury that early in the second quarter to put Irish Head Coach Gerry Faust had Notre Dame up 14-7, it seemed in­wanted to keep secret. evitable that Penn State would take "Pinkett earlier in the year had an the ensuing kickoffand march down ankle injury which he suffered while the field for the tying score. playing basketball last spring," said 
Instead it was the Irish defense Faust after the game. "Everyone that took over at that point, forcing thought it was his knee that was bot­the Nittany Uons to punt. The Notre hering him, but it was his ankle. He Dame offense showed no signs oflet­was really only 80 percent for the ting up on its next possession, as season opener, but we kept it quiet Pinkett took a pitch on the left side, so no one would take a shot at his cut off a block by fullback Mark ankle and now it has healed well. Brooks, faked out one defender, Now he's running like he used to run outraced another, and picked up a · like the Pinkett of old. Also now
.\ 
"Nobody ever said there wouldn't be days like these," said the Nittany 
see IRISH, page 8 
Fiesta Bowl eyes Notre Dame 
Notre Dame's bowl propects have been much for them to play." Fiesta Bowl stickers were being like a rollercoaster ride the pastfew years, with this widely distributed in the Notre Dame post-game season being no exception. But with the Irish vic­locker room. tory over Penn State, bowl rumors have been run­Gerry Faust, apparently knowing of the Fiesta ning rampant. Bowl interest in the Irish, stated, "It's up to the ad­
The Observer has learned from Fiesta Bowl ministration." The official response from Athletic officials that Notre Dame is its prime candidate to Director Gene Corrigan was, "Notre Dame will play in Tempe, Ariz., onJanuary I. make no decision concerning a bowl appearance 
When asked whether Notre Dame would get the until after the USC game." bid, a Fiesta Bowl official said, "We'd really like to But, you might as well beat the rush and have have them. Right now were looking for someone plane tickets to Phoenix put on hold. 

Stanford, Farley capture interhall championships 
'Dirtbag D' makes Steber's 40-yard catch stand up against Sorin, 6-0 
By BRIAN McCARTHY only one field goal all year. Sorin quarterback Sports Writer Tim LaBoe dropped back and fired across the middle but Stanford linebacker Bill Jolley hit 
Stanford's Brian Steber caught a 40-yard the receiver as the ball arrived to break up the touchdown pass from quarterback Brent Bas­play. ham, which proved to be all that Stanford Sarin's defense proved just as strong in the needed to defeat Sorin, 6-0, for the interhall next series, and Stanford was forced to punt football title. from deep in its own territory. The ball flew 
Stanford's defense, nicknamed "Dirtbag D," out ofbounds at Stanford's 43-yard line, giving held Sorin's leading rusher, Sean Garrett, to Sorin good field position once again. only 1 5 yards on ten carries. Sorin, as a team, After picking up a first down, Sorin was managed only 48 yards offense and two first faced with fourth and six on the 25-yard line. downs for game. For the second time in the game, Sorin 
Sorin got an early break whenJohn Cowden decided against the field goal and instead tried stopped Stanford's opening drive by picking to pass for the needed yardage. Again the strat­
\ off a pass at Sorin's 30-yard line and returned it egy failed, this time when Laboe was chased 49 yards to the Stanford 2 1 before he was out-of-bounds at the 26 by Chris Devito and dragged down by Basham. Pete Sawin. 
Three plays later, however, facing fourth Sorin missed one more opportunity late in and ten, Sorin elected to go for the first down the first half when LaBoe just underthrew a instead ofthe field goal. The decision was un­
see STANFORD, page 8 
derstandable considering that Sorin had made 
Farley'~ run and pass mix keeps 
P. E. defense at bay in 20-6 win 
ByJOHN COYLE "We just pulled together and played our Sports Writer game." Farley's game plan was to utilize both the 
Farley defeated defending champ, pass and the run. Tht: team finally got its of­Pasquerilla East 20-6 to win tht:> women's in­fense going late ir. Lhc first h3lf. A pass inter­terhall flag football crown yesterday in Notre ference call and a pass to Camille Cooper Dame Stadium, proving that "Farley girls just moved Farley to the P.E 16-yard line.Quarter­want to have fun." back Mary Lou Almeida then found receiver 
At first, it appeared that it would be P.E.'s Kara England open in the endzone for six day for fun. On the first play from scrimmage, points 
P.E. line-backer, Trish Harley, intercepted a Farley mounted another drive after receiv­Farley pass. P.E. then wasted no time in ing the second half kickoff. An option play to scoring. Elise Armstrong swept around right Joyce Metti and another pass interference en~ for 40 yards and an early 6-0 lead. penalty put the ball 40 yards away from the 
Farley, however, did not panic. The game endzone. was far from over at that point. The players After a pass to Sue Sheldon, Almeida kept their composure and the Farley coaches threaded the needle to Joann Marshall for a stuck to their game plan. l2-6lead. Farley converted the two-point play 
to improve its lead to 14-6. "We thought we could beat them with the P.E. had little success moving the ball inside game because their defense was spread 
see FARLEY, pageS 

so wide," said Farley head coach Jerry Judd. 


