Absurdity pageS 

MONDAY,APRIL2, 1984 
The 0~/Thom Bradley
Ducks just want to have fun 
Two ducks enjoy themselves in the spring weather temperatures and sunshine. A few hardy souls even yesterday outside Stanford-Keenan Halls. Students l»uught out the blankets and laid out on the quad, joined the ducks in taking advantage of the higher maybe trying to re-live a Ft. Lauderdale spring break. 


Mondale's experience biggest asset 
Editor's note: Tbis is tbe tbird of four articles outlining tbe plat­forms and objectives of tbe can­didates wbo will be participating in the Mock Convention. 
By DAVID ROBBINS 
News Staff 
"Walter Mondale is someone you can trust because he's been in there," says Mike Brogioli, campus campaign chairman for Walter Mondale. 
Throughout his career in Wash­
ington, first as a senator from Min­
nesota and then as vice-president under Jimmy Carter, Mondale has maintained two major concerns. First, he fears too much money is being spent on defense. Secondly, areas ofmath, foreign languages, and computer science. 

In his defense policy, Mondale believes there are ten steps Americans must follow to both insure the nation's security and cut the defense deficit spending. He in­sists the nation must strengthen its regular military forces. Smaller na­tions should be dealt with as friends rather than enemies. The govern­ment must restore its open commit­ment to human rights in foreign policy, and the poorer nations must be aided through relief and educa­
see MONDALE page 3 


Saint Mary's to investigate current social problems 

By ANNE GALLAGHER 
News Staff 
Current social problems will be explored this week during Social Awareness Week at Saint Mary's. The Social Action Club, an or­ganization of mainly Sociology majors, designed the week to increase student knowledge of such key social issues as rape, poverty and food waste. 
Throughout the week, a series of lectures, 

Schedule of Events 
•
Monday: A tour ofMemorial Hospi­tal will run from 2:15-3:45, followed by a speaker and rum presented by CANCO at 7 p.m. on tfte third floor of Haggar College Center. 

•Tuesday: 
Films will be shown on rape and life in prison from 7:30-8:30 


p.m. in the Media Center of the Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
films, tours and displays will be available to students on the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses. Janet Saas, an SAC member, feels these activities offer an excellent opportunity for students to increase their knowledge of these issues. "It is really important to have people come hear the speakers and see the films. They don't take up much time, and they are worth listening to," she said. 
Another SAC member, Karen Overly, agreed "this week provides an excellent op­portunity for students to increase their under­standing of topics they don't often come in contact with here in the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame community." 
Adisplay ofall programs can be found in the 
lobby ofthe library throughout the week. 
Both Overly and Saas agree everyone has 
been very eager to help them with the project. 
"SAGA has been really great," said Overly. 
"They had clear trash bins made specially, and 
donated S I 00 for film and processing. They 

•
Wednesday: Ameal, slide show and sermon will be presented at the Hope Rescue Mission in South Bend from 6:30-9:30 p.m. 

•Thursday: 
Clear plastic waste bins will expose the day's wasted food in the dining hall. Pictures will be taken ofthe waste. This will go on all day. At 7 p.m., in Stapleton Lounge, Kay Hol­land from the Battered Women's Shel­ter will speak. 



are very aware already of the waste that goes on here." 
The SAC, which stems from the now non­existant Sociology Club, is a mandatory re­quirement for students in the Social Work Methods class. Social Awareness Week was developed as a class project. 
"This is a good club, and this is a good ac­tivity," noted Saas. "Hopefully, ifall goes well this year, Social Awareness Week will be big­ger and even better next year." 



Former law professor wins Laetare Medal 
Speclal to The Observer 
John T. Noonan, legal scholar, author and professor of law at the University of California, Berkeley, has been awarded Notre Dame's 1984 Laetare Medal, it was an­nounced Saturday by Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of the Univer­sity. The medal, the oldest and most prestigious award given to American Catholics, had its centenary last year. 
In announcing the honor, Father Hesburgh praised the efforts of Noonan, a former member of Notre Dame's Law School faculty, to address contemporary social issues from a perspective of traditional Christian ethics. 
"john Noonan's careful scholar­ship has produced definitive books on a variety ofcrucial subjects from usury to the morality of abortion," Hesburgh said. "As a lawyer, a his­torian, a theologian, a medievalist, a classicist and an imaginative legal educator, he has greatly enriched the life of the Catholic Church and the society in which the Church is a sacrament." 
Noonan was born in Boston on 
October 24, 1926. He graduated 
from Harvard in 1947 and did his 
post-graduate studies at Cambridge 
University. He received master's and 
doctoral degrees in philosophy from 
Catholic University in 1949 and 
1951, and in 1954 he received his 
law degree from Harvard, becoming 
a member ofthe bar that same year. 
After six years of law practice in Boston, he joined the Notre Dame Law School faculty for five years, leaving in 1966 for his present posi­tion at the University of California, Berkeley. 
Noonan's research and publica­tions have been in the areas of Church history, canon law, and theological development. He was a consultant to the Papal Commission 


on the Family in 1965 and to the Presidential Commission on Popula­tion and the American Future in 1970. 
Presently he is an advisor to the United States Catholic Conference. he has published over fifty articles and essays in a variety of legal, philosophical and theological jour­nals and several books, including 
The Scholastic Analysis of Usury, Contraception, Power to Dissolve, 
see LAETARE page 4 

Monday,April2, 1984-page 2 
The Observer 

Mission of Catholic Worker may be changing in N.Y.C. 
jesus tells us that we mustfeed the hungry, and shel­ter those without homes and visit the sick and the prisoner. We cannotfeel too satisfied with the way we are doing our work -there is too much ofit; we have 

p 1 M G ' 

more than ourshare, you mightsay. Yet we can say, "If au c Inn thafs the way He wants it ..." Dorothy Day, from Loaves and Fishes 
Despite predictions by some that Catholic Worker, the lay movement founded by Dorothy Day and Peter Maurin, may have outlived its usefulness to the hungry and homeless,-the movement is still alive in New York City's Lower East Side. 

But while it is alive, Catholic Worker is not exactly Worker members are free to re-enter a society which well. But then again, it's not supposed to be. is more worried about the Soviet Union than the poor. 
After all, things were not much better when Day and The Worker, however, remains steadfastly dedicated to Maurin were putting together their anarchistic answer Day's non-violence and charts its counter-course along to the social disintegration of the Great Depression. skid row. 
Saying "no" to the aliena­
Such a course may be tion and pain of a tech­changing for the Bowery nological society gone awry, houses, however. the two, together with a few Developers are creeping in fellow Catholic outcasts, put from all sides. Locals term together in 1933 with little the process "gentrification," money, a safety net to catch because development al­those who fell through the ways means the poor get dis­
U.S. welfare system. placed by affluent persons Through the early years of who can afford renovated the movement, Day, armed condominiums and apart­with the 25th chapter of ments. Saint Matthew's Gospel, and Workers, however, seem 
under the theological undeterred and may move guidance of Maurin, to follow the poor, possibly developed a three-part plan to Queens or Brooklyn. Or to make at least a slice ofU.S. they may stay where they society more catholic than are and change their mission American. to challenge bourgeois 
The two opened neighbors. hospitality houses to serve As is its tradition, Catholic the homeless and hungry, built farms by which to chal­Worker will adapt. As there are always persons in need, lenge passive acceptance of industrial society, and the Worker remains ready to do what it can wherever it 
began a monthly newspaper to keep communications is most needed. 

open between the movement and the outside world. 
Fifty-one years later, more and more persons are fal­ling through local, state, and federal safety nets. But Catholic Worker, as one staffmember said, "is still there to fill the cracks." 
Filling the cracks with sandwiches, soup, or second­hand clothes, Catholic Worker remains committed to the neglected. Using whatever is at hand at any par­ticular time, the Worker gives even until after it hurts at more than 30 hospitality houses across the U.S. As Bowery staffer and Notre Dame graduate Tom Ryan put it, "It's feast or famine." 
The "Worker," as the movement is referred to by Ryan and fellow staff members at the movement's two Bowery locations, does not train the unemployed to become employable. 


COUNSELINE A service to the NO community 239·7793 HOURS: 4-10p"' Mon·Thurs. Counsehne '·'a free. confidential telephone service thai offers profess•onally taped materials thai cover a wtde vanP!~.~!..~.tuden1 concerns  
TAPENO TITL£ 1 Fuendsh•P Bull(hng 7 Deahng W1tr'l ConstruCIIve CUIICISm 8 Oeahng Wllh Anger 9 Understanding Jealousy ana How to Deal wtUt II 10 How to Say ··No· 11 Becomtng Open Ia ()&hers 1ft Oat•ng Sktlls JO Anxtety and Possible Ways 10 Cope ••thll 32 How to Deal w•lh LOf'lhness 33 How to Handle Fears J5 81,11ld1ng seli·Eiteem & ConhcJence 31 Relax•ng Exerc•ses 38 Coptng Wllh Slress l9 Female Sell Role·· Changes anCI Slress 44 lelfn•no to Accept Yourself fit Whll•s Therapy & How to Use 11 83 How to Cope Witt": a BrOken RelationShip 8.5 Understanding Gnet to Hetpmg a Fuend 160 Early ••ons of an Alcohol Problem lflt Rnpons•Die Oec•a•ons About Drm..,tng 4()2 Seii·ASHII!Yft!WSS 431 What•s Oepreuton 432 How to Deal With Depress•on 433 Oepresa•on as a L•fe Style 478 &ecom•ng lndepenCienl hom Parem: 479 Dealing wtth Alcoholic Parents 411 Sutctdat Cnsis 4V2 Recognlli'IQ SUICtdal Potential mOthers 493 Helpu~g So~!" .• Sa.ncu:lal Cn111  
CounHIInela • completely anonymous oenoee olleNCI by the eoun..llng a Poycllologlcal Setvlcea Cenlltf. UND For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239·7337 between 9·5 ··CLIP AND SAVE-·  


r----------------------------~ 
Math, Physics, Chemistry & Engineering Majors: Could you use $24,000 cash your last two years ofcollege? 
Did you know that it is possible for you to start a career in the Nuclear Engineering field while still in college? 
If you are a student 
in good academic standing and have com­pleted one year each of calculus and physics, you may qualify for the Navy Nuclear Power Candidate Program. In addition, you could ceive up to $25,000 in your junior and senior years just for going to school. After commissioning, you will receive over $24,000; and over $42,000 after four years as a commissione~ officer. We operate 70% of the reactors in America and our nuclear trained officers are sought by other companies., .but we make it worthwhile to stay with us! 
For more information on the Navy's Nuclear Engineering program --$1000 per month salary and $24,000 bonus, call NAVY toll free 1-800-382-9782. 
Navy Representative will be on campus: 
I April10·12, 1984 ,. _______ ._______a_t_ ~th_e_ P_l_acement Office .
1 

•W·~~~~~~~~-~~~~-~~~----~-­
I 



In Brief 

The Obudsman steering committee and 
executive hoard for 1984-85 have been named. Henry Sienkiewicz has been named director of Ohud. The remainder of the executive hoard consists of Dave Stepenitch, programs coordinator; Martha Mcli, information officer; Susan McCabe, publicity officer; Robert Sienkiewicz, finance officer; Maher Mouasher, elections officer; Richard Adam, survey officer; and Mary Connolly, communications officer. Susan McCabe, Martha Meli, Henry Sienkiewicz, Dave Stpenitch and Ray Wise comprise the new steering committee. 
The Observer 

Of Interest 

The Italian Club of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is celebrating Italian Week beginning tonight at 9 with the movie "Ucct:laci e Uccelini" in the Annenberg auditorium of the Snite Museum. -The Observer 

Weather 
Sun and warmth will continue if you can handle it. Partly sunny and mild today with a high ofabout 54. The low tonight will be 
38. Unfortunately raindrops may be falling on your head tomorrow-possible thunderstorms and a high of54 again. Enjoy it while it's here. ­

The Observer 

The Observer-
The Observer ( 1·~~ ~')') l-401111) i' puhli,hnl Monda)· throul(h ~riday and un honK foothall ~Jiunlar:-.. t.·xt.·c.·pt durin)( t.'XJOl and va«.:alion pc.:rimJ!'t. The Observer i~ puhlt~ht.·l.l hy the: ~ludc.:nt,of Ihe.· I'nivt·r~ily of Nnlrt.· l>anu· anc.l ~ainl Mary·~ <.olk~c.· ~uh~c. rtption~ may he.· pun. ha!->nl lor SlCi p1.:r }Tar ( S I':; pc.:r .,c.·mt.·:o.tc.·r) h) "ritm~ The Observer, I' I) llox 1.). Notrt· llamt·.lndiana -16~~6. 
The Ohsenrer i:'t a mcmht.·r t)fThe As­sodatt·d Pre~s. All n:produc.:lion ri~hl:'t 
;lrt' fl':'tl'fVC.:tl 

Today"s issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ................................ Troy Illig Design Assistant........................ Paul Bruce Layout Staff.......................... Claire Kneuer Typesetters ...................... Billllighduchcck Michelle fanto 
News Editor .............................. Tom Mowle Copy Editor ............................ Tess Guarino .\"ports Copy [;(lftor ................. Ed Komacdy ND Day Editor............................. Earl Baker SMC Day Editor........................)ody Radler Ad Design ......................... , ...... Jcannk Euch Typist................................ Mary Beth Porter Photographer....................... Thorn Bradley 


Trouble Reading Your StudentSavingsCard? 

Call today for a complete examination and 20% OFF any pair of glasses with your student savings card. 
• Lar~e selection of fashion frames 


t 
N
• 
All types of contact lenses 

• 
Prescriptions filled 

• 
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 

• 
Dr. Patrick Albert 




ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 
1635 N. Ironwood • 277-1161 
-The Observer 
T/M~IIIIIel~-puOII-O,I.....fldMtlofll• Unhoeltl\yoiNM,.o.m.duLMW'd._,......,,~ M--.~,__..., 
llll..:ll...pDI-of!... -'"!lnlllriiiG<>of-"-.....'1111-Tfoe-.. tiiPOf1_,N
acc:..,••..r-••oot~C•~-...y•--..,........,IOitor-•.-1 the-­
ol•m~IO'otrllflfoefdlt.,.lltllk>owdc-.,_,Jolll._,...,,,.tn-Colurowl llf-IIIM-of!....raulho<l ~......... -I...IOaii_,_,IOIIhl
wrnmufllly.lftdi...,,..••PI'___
_,.,.._.._OriC..,......!flr.....,........ 
11-1101'1 ' I 

The Observer 
MOCK CONVENTION 
* 

State meetings will take place at the following times in the fol­lowing rooms tonight in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Rules, agendas, platt.:>rms, credentials, etc. will be distributed and delegates should briolg a$2 fee to help defray the expenses of decorations, materials and speakers fees. 
6p.m. Indiana· 117 Vermont· 102 
Alaska ·118

Virginia. 102 Iowa -102 South Dakota -103 
ldaho-119

Texas-104 Georgia· 103 Florida -104 
Maine-120 Arizona -106 Hawaii-105 Wisconsin-106 Michigan-105 Pennsylvania· 104 Illinois -105 
Delaware. 203 Minnesota· 108 Arkansas -106 Massachusetts -107
California· 204 Tennessee-109 Missouri -107 New Mexico -108
District Maryland· 114 Oklahoma-108 of Columbia-205 Connecticut-109 Utah-116 Kentucky -109 West Virginia· 206 North Carolina -114 Washington · 117 Louisiana· 207 New Jersey -116 
6:45p.m.

Mississippi· 118 Nebraska· 208 New Hampshire -117 RhOde Island · 203 Colorado-114 Nevada ·118 Ohio-204 Alabama· 116 7:30p.m. New York-204 
* * 


Fast, Free 
Delive~ 
Throbbing head? 
Quaking body? Has 
Monday dealt another 
crushing blow? Revive 
yourself with a well­
rounded meal from 
Domino's Pizza. We'll 
help smooth the wrinkles 
out of your day. 

Call us. 


277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 

233-3133 
1428 Calvert St. 

289-7100 
4333 W. Western 

277-8700 
51400 U.S. 31 North 
Our drivers carry less 
than $20.00. 

Limited delivery area 
~ 1984 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
r----------------------~ 
Only $7.50 for a

Monday 

one-item, 16" pizza 
plus two Cokes~ 
One coupon per pizza. 
Expires in two weeks. 

Madness 

I. 

Fast, Free Delivery~ Good at listed locations. 
40600/2860-4 
·o.· , 

L••••••••••••••••••••••J 
Monday,April2, 1984-page 3 
!Corbyrsl Monday Specials 3-8 pm Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 
8-3 am Margaritas .... $.85 



~~···· 
Free Hot Cheese Nachos!!!!! 
JUNIORS 
SENIOR TRIP DEADLINE DEPOSITS DUE FRIDAY, APRIL 6 
Sign-ups in front of Student Activities Office in LaFortune: 
11:00 am to 1:00pm and 6:30 to 7:30pm Monday thru Friday 
~Attention: Class of'85 Applications for 
1r Senior Informal Disorientation Week Block Party r-Senior Formal Senior Advisory Council ~ Beginning of the End Week plus a variety of commissioners 
~(Social, Publicity, Societal, Liturgical, Athletic, Off-campus .-Cocktail Party, Happy Hour, Dorm-reps) 
~'  are at the Student Activities Office  
I'  ~pplications are due on Friday, April 6  
~  
~  Get Involved with the Class of'85  

Laundry Notice: To insure that all charges for special/express laundry, drycleaning and tailoring are able to be billed, all items picked up after April13, 1984 will be strictly on a cash basis. No charges to the students' accounts will be permitted. However, this does not apply to the regular student bundle service. Any amount over the bundle allotment will be billed on the next semester's in­voice. Seniors are reminded that their accounts must be billed prior to graduation, including overuse of bundle service. We will have balances owed, as a result of exceeding the laundry allotment, for seniors only, on May 10, '84. Any bundle input by a senior after that date may result in a negative balance which will require us to collect cash upon receipt of the bundle by the senior. 
SENIORS 
Only 3 more days to buy Senior Formal Tickets 
in LaFortune and LeMans 4:30-6:30 
Rent tuxes, 4/2, 4/3, 4/4 LaFortune, from 5:00-6:30 
$12CASH AMERICAN PLASMA IS NOW HERE IN 
SOUTH BEND 
Make yourself feel great, donate blood plasma Help save a life. Receive $12 cash after your first donation 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 515 Lincolnway West 
Tues, Wed, Fri ..••.......•.•..••. 8 am to 5 pm Sat .....••..••.....•...••...•••. 9 am to 5 pm 
Bring this ad with you for bonus 
Exp. date, May31, 1984  
LASALLE  
234·6010 z<  WA '11 Wtsr  
~  

1.1..-"-!lilli•••..•--•••llili--..l!l-.'!!1~-"-.1!1-."!1-_l!l-.1!1-.1!1-_1!1._1!1._1!1._1!1__ .... 

•.----•.•.•--••-~~~ -t~~ ~~~~e are tired ofit." 



Mondale 
continuedfrom page 1 
tiona! methods. Also, the U.S. must attract Central American countries instead of scaring them with weapons. 
Mondale also believes the U.S. needs to negotiate with the Russians to work out a mutual and verifiable freeze on nuclear weapons. The SALT II must be ratified, and federal support must be discontinued on projects which develop nerve gases and other indiscriminate killers. Finally a step forward must be made in an effort to halt the development ofnuclear weapons. 
Mondale's second priority is the 

education of the nation's youth. If 
elected, he says by the year 1990, all 
efforts will be made necessary to 

make the United States' educational 
system the best in the world. 
During a speech to the American 
Council on Education, Mondale 
stated, "Americans want to rebuild 
this country. If we respond with a 
new emphais on education I know 
we can do it. Name an American 
aspiration-a growing economy, in­
ternational competitiveness, secure 
defenses, personal opportunity, so­cial justice-and you will also name a goal that cannot be achieved with­out strong schools and colleges." 
Mondale has three basic plans for the betterment of the nation's educational systetn. First, he intends to reinact two of the federal monetary grants cut by the Reagan administration to make more money availible to those who cannot afford to go to college. Secondly, Mondale hopes to increase funding to schools so they may be able to modernize and develop advanced courses in foreign languages, mathematics, and computer sciences. Thirdly, he hopes to enact a program, already working in Boston, where various businesses would support local schools by providing jobs for high school students provided the chosen schools keep its faculty in­formed on recent developments and by making the schools enforce tougher standards for graduation. 

Mondale says he learned compas­
sion and respect for those less 
priviliged than he from his humble 
beginnings. His parents taught him 
to always be open to the needs and 
desires of those less fortunate than 
he. Similarly, in the Mondale home, 
materialism was frowned upon. "I 
never saw a wealthy man die happy," 
said Rev. Mondale to young "Fritz," 

in Finley Lewis' Mondale:Portrait of 
an American Politician. 
1\t>ndale took these ideals with 

him when he went to Malcalester 
College, in St. Paul, earning a BA de­
gree. He then enrolled in the Univer­

sity of Minnesota Law School and 
after a year was drafted into the 
Army and served from 1951 to 1953. 
Upon his release, Mondale returned 
to to school, where he received his 
law degree in 1956. 

Mondale's political career began 
in 1960 when he was appointed at­
torney general for the state of Min­
nesota. While in office, Mondale 
passed up an opportunity to run for 
governor in an effort to unify the the 
state's Farmer-Labor party. Although 
Mondale lost the battle, many 
prominent officials noted his ability 
for organization and his insight into 

politics and its inner workings. As a 
result, in 1964 Mondale was ap­
pointed to the U.S. Senate when 

Hubert Humphrey was named as 
President Johnson's vice­

presidential running mate. He held 
this position until1977 when he was 
chosen to run for the vice­
presidency byJimmy Carter. 

When asked why one should sup­
port Mondale instead of Hart, 
Brogioli said,"Again, experience is 
the key. Mondale believes in con­
stant themes and has been able to 
modify his programs to fit the chang­
ing times." Hart's ideas aren't 

original. He's trying to be a newJFK 

The Observer Monday, April 2, 1984 -page 4 
•magaz1ne Scholastic Writer's Meeting TONIGHT 7:00pm, Scholastic office, 3rd floor Lafortune All Interested, please attend!  
THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA &PUB "BRUNO~" THIS MONDAY ONLY BRUNO will deliver a 16" pizza with 1 topping for only $5.95 Each additional topping $1.00 extra Order 2--$1 offtotal price Order 3--$2 offtotal price 4 or more--$3 offtotal price Mon -.Iburs Fri-Sat 277-4519 4..JOPM Until12 am Open Sunday 4-10 pm 2'17-4519  
and Sunshine Promotions JON ANDERSON CH!;IIS SQUIRE TAf'YOR RABIN ALAN WHITE TONY KAYE Thursday, April 26 8:00P.M. Notre Dame A.C.c. All Seats Reserved $12.50 Tlcke~ QD.sale at the A.C.C. Box Office. Sears (University Park Mall, Elkhart and Michigan City). Robertson's (South Bend, Town and Country and Concord Mall). Elkhart Truth. J.R.'s Music Shop (laPorte). St. Joseph Bank (Main Office). World Record (Goshen). Music Magic (Benton Harbor) and Karma Records (Ft. Wayne).  


If you're a senior and have the promise of a $10,000 career~oriented job, do you think it's difficult to get the American Express® Card? 
Guess again. 
It's rather easy. 

In fact, all you need is a $10,000 job. That's it. No strings. No gim~ micks. And this offer is even good for 12 months after you graduate. 
Because American Express wants to show that we not only believe in your future, but we also believe in you now. But why do you need the American Express Card now? First ofall, it's a good way to help you to establish your credit history. 
And you know how important that is. Ofcourse, you can also use the Card for vacation trips, as well as for restaurants and shopping. And because the Card is recognized and 
welcomed worldwide, so are you. 
So call800~528~8000 for a Special Student Application or look for one at your college bookstore or on your campus bulletin boards. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it.'M 


Laetare 
continuedfrom page 1 
Persons and Masks of the Law, The Antelope, and A Pri11ate Choice. His scholarship has brought him numerous academic awards and honorary degrees including one from Notre Dame in 1976. 
Noonan married the former Mary Lee Bennett in 1967, and they have three children. 
The Laetare (pronounced LAY­tah-ray) Medal is so named be­cause it is announced each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent in the Chruch calendar. It was conceived as an American counter­part of the "Golden Rose," a papal honor which antedates the 1 1 th Century. Established in 1883, the medal was restricted until 1968 to lay Catholics; priests and religious are now eligible. 
Since its establishment, 105 men and women have recelved the Laetare Medal. Among those honored in recent years have been Clare Boothe Luce in 1957; Presi­

I 
I dent John F. Kennedy in 1961; Phyl­lis McGinley in 1964; Dorothy Day ln 1972; Helen Hayes ln 1979; and Edmund Muskie in 1981. 
The medal will be given to Noonan at the University com­mencement exercises May 20. 
..............-"'"""''""'__..__ 

1 __ Roc.co's Hair · 
I Styling 

531 N. Michigan St.. t&tr Phone 133-4957 !Wii
m..................................................'i/!111 

SENIORS Time is running out! 
Buy your Senior Formal Bid Today! On sale in LaFortune and LeMans, 4:30-6:30, April2-4 
Tux fitting and Second City Tickets also available Don't miss out on the biggest event of the year!! 
FINANCIAL WORKSHOP FOR CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
Tonight, 7:00pm Library Auditorium 
All Treasurers or Presidents should attend this important session on funding, documen­tation, accountability, etc. 
A DRAMATIC NEW CONCEPl IN SUN TANNING! 
Preserve Your Tan 
. TAN-H~ sun tonnhg sam 217-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka 
Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 
Look for an application on campus. 

I I \ .,>J .\ ,·, \ 'l ~ ' I I • •• I J • 
I ' 

I
l ------------.. --. -.. -. ----·' 

._ ___ --------------------------------------· ------------J 



24 across-page 11 






BOSS: 'FILTHY' 
By I.M.I. RATE the world, said he was behind the Food Services Director Dill Pickley Some rookie reporter ban "all the way baby." He added, said he was planning to open up however, "No way, no how will Lepercum Pizza booths in every 
Declaring dormitory foodsales you get me to put that in writing dorm. Pickley said he was looking "filthy, disgusting and all-around though." ~ f, for students to run the new booths icky," Not-our-Dump Vice­"We're Really Hungry" Coali­_since "tho~'C funny ·green leprac­President for Busybody Affairs tion members applauded the Uni­~ hauns we hired were too .short to John-John Van Wobbler per­versity junk food ban and reach the upper level pizza trays. I manently shut down all student­announced a "big 'o party" to ~had to fire at least five of'em." operated foodsales throughout celebrate tonight with free refresh­The Society to Help Out Runts in campus yesterday. ments and munchies. "It's pig out Town Battle Ugly Management 
"It's time we fight grime on its time," Coalition chairman Anna Systems (SHORTBUMS) vowed to lowest level," Van Wobbler said Rexic ranted and raved. take up the cause of the fired little while slobbering on a maggot­Irish folk and launched a full-scale infested Dillon pizza purchased Hungry students with limited investigation into the incident. earlier that day. "I'm gonna grab budgets who were angered by the -"Aye, for sure we'll lay a curse on my can of Raid and hit those South closing of foodsales were repor­the big meanies," said a squirt Quad garbage dumps of gringy tedly organizing a trip to Shirley's spokesman. grub while Father Ted takes care of in protest. Said one member, who North." asked not to be identified for fear Meanwhile, back at the -ranch, 
Fader Theodora Hasbeen, Uni­of University retribution, "Road grandmother is beating off the In­
versity Pres. and all-around friend trip!" dians but they keep coming and 
to the poor and underprivileged of In an unrelated story, University coming. 


, 


• 1111 



By SKIP D. TRUTH seventy thousand bucks. Our in­nysaver to assist the Absurder staff campus rag, Spastic Magazine. "I Copy Idiot tegrity is worth at least twice that, with the transistion. never thought I'd stoop this low, which is exactly what Muckrake of­Nationally-syndicated Absurder 
and I wouldn't have if they didn't The Absurder yesterday became fered us. columnist Paul Roper-Doper 
pay me so much," grinning the un­the second major midwestern "As long as we're going to sell out, McGinsu quit the paper when he shaven columnist. 
tabloid to sell out to media mongrel we might as well sell out to the hig­heard of Muckrake's move. "The Rhubarb Muckrake this year. hest bidder," he said proudly. Alien thinks I work for him. No way. A number of other Absurder 
"The University placed a pricetag Muckrake is planning to fly in I've put up with that Dzizezdzizc employees are planning to leave the on our integrity by trying to force us editors next week from several ofhis clown for a year, but I do have some tabloid after the Muckrake takeover to join the their silly budget system," other major tabloids, including the standards," said McGinsu. is complete. Rumor has it that Spurts said Absurder Editor Dizzy New York Post-GrapeNuts, the Bos­editor Meek Sullivan is considering a 
Dzizezdzizc. "But our integrity is ton Weird Harold, the Chicago McGinsu's column appeared in position on Berry Louse's coaching worth more than their crummy Seen-Better Times and the Pen-today's issue of the dominant staff 

The Absurder /Ray Charles

Go ahead, take my quiz!! 
After the recent revelation oframpant cheating in his class (despite what all those baby freshmen say), Dean Evil Hogman has found a solution to the problem. 

No Social Worries 
ByWHATAPAIN 
Senior snewsjerk 
The Notre Dame Center for Social 
Worries announced last evening it 
will disband because there are no 
more problems in the world. 
Speaking to a sardine-packed audience at the Memorial Library Auditorium, CSW director Ron McFeelgood said the center "has been unable to locate any civil rights violations in the world, and as such, will cease operations effective April 15." 
McFeelgood noted the day the 
Center ceases operation also will be 
last day the world East African grey 
squid could me an anti-exinction 
petition with the Intestines for 
Reagan Service (IRS or GUTS). 
MacFeelgood went on to say that 
the Center had struggled desperate­
ly to find some cause in the world to 
support, but could not find "a thing , wrong with the system of even a Third World country." Asked how hard the center tried 
1 to uncover some world problems, 
MacFeelgood said, "the Center tried 
so hard (at which time a member of 
the audience yelled, 'How hard?') to find crisis that in its failure at­tempted a coup against Pureena 
Contacted by The Absurder at his Michigan retreat, Neuter Doom Prez Daddy Theodopilos M. Iceberg said he was pleased the Center had ac­hieved its goals, but added, "What about my trips to Kampuchea, that's Cambodia for all you ignoramuses?" 
McFeelgood told The Absurder that he was deeply troubled by the lack of attention the establishment press, such as the Union ofPeonsIn­ternational was giving the plight of those center employees who now have to be laid off. 
"By closing the .-.:~:nter, we're going to put 1 7 women, 15 men, I 0 collies and seven red squirrles out of work," said McFeelgood, who, as if a frre had been ignited under him, spat out (and incidentally got this repor­ter quite wet), "By God, that gives me an idea -a Center for the Re­employment of Former Center for Social Worries Staff Persons and Liason Organizaton for Families and Friends of the Same (CRFCSWSPLOFFS). What do you 
think?" 
Muckrake plans major changes in Absurder style and contePl. "First, we're going to try spelling all the words in the headlines correctly. Then we'll move on to the really im­portant things, like screaming ban­ner headlines on the front page, retouched photos, sensationalistic stories and a pretty semi-clad girl on page 2 to replace that stupid Inside Out column. In short. we plan to give Spastic a run for its money," said Muckrake. 




Long ago, in a galaxy far away ... -page 6 
Jockey Shorts 
The P<1ison Ivy Award has been given 
by American Vending Machines and Hot Dog Stands Magazine to Dill Pickley, director of Neuter Dame Food Disservice, and his staff, even though he is the only person who thinks much of the award. Said Pickly: ''I'm a great guy. Okay, maybe a little over-weight but · who cares? I've just gotten one ofthe highest awards given to people like me. Did I tell you I was a great guy?" Some ofPicklcy"s staffwho have not already been unjustifiably fired responded to the an­nouncement. Said one worker who serves the entrees: "Roast beefor cheese noodles?" Apparently, she did not understand the question, or anything dsc for that matter. -The Absurder 
Junior Lean Franks has been elected Student Body Cruise Director at Saint Mary's, in yet another major restructuring of SMC student government. Franks plans five dances, 3 tea parties, an icc cream social, a punch-and-cookies study break and a five-hall Christmas Cotillion. "We arc well on our way to completely phasing out student government at the College," said current SBP E. Lane Marriadoctor. "Every student is completely content with life at Saint Mary's. We are all friends here and we student leaders don't want to make anr changes or take anr stands that might hurt someone's feelings. Next year we plan to phase out elections altogether." -The Absurder 
'Nother Drag presidentTheodore Huddleburgcr, 
Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, 
Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, 
Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, 
Ph.D, Ph.D. Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, 
Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, 
Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, 
Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, 
Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D, Ph.D will receive yet anoth­er honorary degree, the Ministry of Truth revealed today. Hud­dlchurgcr, or Fr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Ted, as he prefers to be called, will speak at a parole hearing at the Indiana Correctional Institute. When asked what he planned to do with his 94th diploma, Huddleburger responded that he had nearly finished wallpapering his bathroom.-The Absurder 
Mr. T has been elected president of the 
University ofNotre Dame, and has quickly changed his name to Fr. T as required by the Congregation of Holy Cross. "I pity da fool who wants to sleep with women on my campus," T said last night on the eve ofhis appointment. "I pity da fool who drinks on my dry campus. I pity da fool." Asked what would be the outcome of underage stu­dents who are caught with intoxicating beverages, T said, simply: "Pain." Responded newly elected Student Body President Throb Burptino: "Go for it." Bookies in Las Vegas arc giving T six to five odds over Burptino's best intentions. -TheAbsurder 

O~No Interest 
Father Matthew Macchiavelliwill be the guest 
lecturer in Psych 234 tomorrow. He will speak on "Cures for Insom­
nia" at the H a.m. class in the Haggard Hall Auditorium. Pillows and 
hlankl·ts arc recommended. -The Absurder 
The Calculator Cleaners Club will he 
conducting sine-ups in Room 3.14 of Cosine Hall from 2 to 4 a.m. tomorrow. Additions and multiplications to the club constitution will be computed at a meeting immediately following the sine-ups. hut in a differential location. -The Absurder 

Whether · 
Look, you arc going to get up tomorro"" morning and the weather's going to be lousy. You might sec the sun sometime in the next month or so, hut only for a few minutes between passing storms. Just like Laudcrdall·, huh? l'al·e it, you're in Indiana, how good could it be? Now just sit there and freeze your buns off like all the good Hoosiers do. -The Absurder 

The. Absurder. 
The Absurder (CHAOS 321 123) is 
puhllshed once a year if we fed like it, 
and thrre's nothing you can do ahout it. 
The Absutder is produced hy a motley 
(.'ft"W chosen trom among the night 
pc:oplr in the area Copies may be 
pun..·ha.o,cd for small sexual favors or 
lewd puhlic di.•plays. Write The Absur­
der, ffyou <:an find rhc addrc~~ 

The Absutder is a m<·mher of The Dls.'IOCiated Press, no starch plcaM: lllowdry. 
Clod Consultant.................. Fostex Cream 
Poor Design Editor............. Mark Somnia~ 
/.aid Out Stuff Tom Thumh, fred Mental, 
Very Sickly .'itereotypsetter............. William McKevins NudesEditors Margraft Shots Curlcymoc, 
Doper M:Ginsu Sloppy Editors .....Sulky fullofit, Fzormcr 
Fzigurchcad Spurts Copy Idiot..... .......... Sir Obnoxiou~ Vlewpoint/ess Fool ....... Empty Pitcher Suitcase IJolt................. Share A. Tonaham N/) Doze Editor.......... .... Usa Pari)' Hardy .'iMC Dazed ldiot...................)udith Martin Subtract Dizzign .......... Best Hired Hand' Pornogrupber.......~..,......,..•.t.>pcp..~hutJ•r..­



The first word, last word and all important words 
I've been staring at this blank sheet of typewriting paper for more than a year without any inspiration for this column -of course that never stopped me from writing or sucking on one of the cheap cigars they sell down in the LaFortune Deli (gosh, to be young and virile at Notre Dame -the food, the laundry, the maids ... Oops, I'm not supposed to mention that. Sor­ry, Mom, but it just slipped out and now there'll a bun in the oven. But while you're reading this, Mom, do you have any extra swaddling clothes?) 
Anyway, I'm lousy at writing, but I had this space to fill. It was either this column or a column by Head Foot­ball Coach Gary Joust praising some girl named Mary. That brings to mind an old joke: We were all feeling Mary until she left -then we jumped for Joy. 
.But anyway, I had this book report I did when I was a 
first grader and I thought it might help cure this writer's 
block I've been having lately. 

It was titled Curious George Sells his LittleSister to a Man in a Trenchcoat for 
110.95 and Goes to the 

Porno Shop. Some of my ..-r-~ lbj ld uv t ti!J td jnfl dflf ts staff even had the gall(s) to ~) ofEi evscilde Aj jnfljnj suggest that I reprint ex­I tmj Ij t dflj bj fj oaldJ cerpts from the book instead VI t:f~ 7n: o ilbm Wfln of my review. This sugges­o flj hrvsg ts 7rvj teaj 
tion popped up during a \.fwi o ic hlfmutb I t Im c t lunchtime conversation d ij hi sj chhc;tl j nem about Hungarian Noodle Eerv Tl> Bake. 
Rachel Samstat has it all: a S tm ahj I }f ts eu ate qJ H successful career as a cook­
I Tlitbm vajmleatcOO fyj book writer, a healthy son, 
de a ivwrj Tn uj j:ld hcvs iflJ and her own TV show. She 
}fEyd ij liiVW1 Ill vw lbcv tnj enjoys her work and loves 
hjd I uj oU:tj tnn <fl iwjai her husband. Unfortunately, ate oAI dJ) 7wl d ij }f tm eu her husband does not love 
ate oH fyj Tciid fa ate d ts her. How she copes with 
nev I rr e Ijb <fl i d fa that final revelation is the 
Eerv Tl> 

Pink Panther 
Executive Associate Figurehead-in-Chief 
Inside Out 

the bubble-gum copes with this final realization is the 
topic ofNorb Efront's first novel, "Lockjaw." 
God came to Neuter Doom in the form of a cloud of dust and a quacking ofducks to tell the world thatSpas­tic magazine is a truly great literary journal. See, what did I tell you -the Spirit never lies. 
You who are at Neuter Doom should respect the right of men to speak out against the evil of sexism in society. You women, shut up and stay in your place. 
You sec, it really doesn't matter what you do once 
j 
)C '«bj LhllltfE jnfl dil Oev 
El t dflj ivTtbfaavjad ill 

topic of Nora Ephron's first 

novel, "Heartburn." This was in my book report. 
Luckily, however, theSpastic is not run by a bunch of second graders (like that vile rag The Absurder) but is run by a competent three-man staff who knows what a good literary magazine is all about -me, myselfand I. 
Which brings me to my favorite topic -me. I bet you didn't know that I was at a Marina training camp this summer and that !learned what life was all about -my picture. 
Life is a great struggle for those who chew bubble gum without frrst unwrapping the gum. Life is even more difficult if the gum was placed in your pocket before you paid for it at the cash register at Wool­worth's. (Ifyou stole it from the bookstore, do not wor­ry, since what they call bubble gum is really only regular boring chewing gum). 
The bubble-gum had it all: a successful advertisin!' 
campaign, a low sugar rating, and its own supermarket 
stand. Unfortunately, people didn't really like it. Ho"" 
Sorry, but even as I wrote, the Spirit came upon me and caused me to write in tongues. But as I was saying, it really doesn't matter what you do once you're Spastic editor. You can write humor issues that aren't funny, not edit writing which ought to be edited, and even write reviews for Pansie's Blowhard City while plug­ging Bluenose Pizza who paid for an ad on the page op­posite your column. 
And speaking ofsnow, I am fairly used to snow. I like to shuffle mr feet through it, kick the fluffy stuffaround, pelt a few friends with fresh snowballs. But the kind of snow I like most is snowing you all over with this column. 
The views expressed in the Outside column are not the views of the author. They reflect the views of the entire editorial bored and staff. Fur­thermore, there's not a damn thing you can do about them. Nva ova ova ova ova. 



Shop
Goodwill 
921 N. Eddy (Across from Nickie's) 
0 r E I se! ! ! 
After shelling out $10,000 dollars for school, your budget needs a break. Buy at Goodwill and still have money left for BEER. 
We have everything : 
couches recliners clothes appliances towels tables lamps and much more! 
If we don't have it, you probably don't need it 
w 




Long ago, in a galaxy far away ... -page 7 


'Is so, is so, is so' 'Is not, is not, is not' 
Disassociated Press Jerkson also had some comments on nuclear weapons. "I like mush­
Democratic presidential politics rooms but not mushroom clouds," became heated in a presidential he said,"Brothers and sisters we debate between front runners Gary must unite to stop the spread of "I'm not quite sure how old I really them Hymies." am or where I stand" Fart, Walter"I All of the candidates were plan­know I'm dull but I've got labor be­ning to go to New York after the hind me " Airedale, Jesse "I don't debate. Airdale said, "I just wish it need the Hymie vote anyway" wasn't so close to Jersey." jerkson and Ruben "Am I still in this ''I'm only going to New York for a race?" Sandwich. little while," Sandwich said, "I've got 
The debate in American Samoza to get back to Florida while its still was mediated by expert mediator spring break and all the hot chics are and pseudo-politician Brian down in Dixie." Catamaran, former student body 
While in New York the wives of
wimp at the University of Notre 
the candidates will be put to the test 
Dame. 
in a nude beauty contest of which
The pressing issues of the debate were who was to issue their ftrst Hairy Flyntlock of magazine fame statement ftrst, thier first statement will be the judge. second, their second statement third, their last statement first and their fmal statement last. Airdale, who insisted that he be allowed to 
Library buys Early Tanzanian Moose Manuals 
issue his third statement second be­
cause he won the Minnesota By RITA BOOK Northwestern's library (located on a looks quite good in horn-rim glass System is planning to buy a com­caucuses easily and has season tick­Army Cook moving car of the L-train), and the that haven't been washed in a week): puter network to make it even hard­ets to all Minnesota Twins games library of St. Cecilia's Gradeschool er to ftnd a book and even more said, "It's my turn." The No Shame Memorial Library for the Blind in Logansport, Fla. ·'Nobody reads our books anyway, difficult to get help at the reference Fart responded, "Is not, is not, is has acquired more than $6.9 million Thirty percent of the books are except for righteous theology grad desk -thour.h the people at the not, is not, is not." worth of books, though only ftve written in French, 20 percent are in students who wear jeans that look reference desk, especially that one Airdale retaliated with, "Is so, is percent are in English and only German, and 1 5 percent weigh like they're waiting for the next will black hair, are already snooty so, is so, is so, is so." seven percent were published after more than three pounds each which Great Flood. We want to ftll the enough. But the folks at the Library Catamaran refused to comment 1879. makes the accreditation people hap­place. It looks so ugly in here say they will follow the footsteps of on the incident claiming he was The standout donation was a set of • py because it increases the total anyways; we just thought a few more the administrators who recently sworn to secrecy by the candidates. Early Tanzanian Moose Skinning poundage of books contained in the books would look better than a bought a Hewlett-Packard computer 
Another issue• bitched about was Manuals written in actual moose refrigerator-looking building. bunch of carrols ftlled with throats that needed a complete software nuclear arms. Sandwich, showing a blood. Anthropology Department who have taken a showersince Wed­conversion. "We shouJd be getting somewhat hawkish side of himself Chairman Gimme More said the ac­Said Bobby Biller, director of Uni­nesday night." the computer up by 1988 or so," Bil­said, "I'd like to send every nuclear quisition represents a major gain for versity Libraries (who incidentally In addition, the University Library lersaid. warhead we've got over to Russia the ailing library which hopes to and blow those damn commies off boost its ranking in the weekly AP the face of the Earth. I can say these throat polL things 'cause I'm not running any Last week, the Memorial Library more and don't have to lie." fmished 98th out of 100, beating out 

Absurder orders ND to join system 

The Absurder 1Ansel Adams 

were part of the Yale recipe, the University would not allow them to serve meet on Friday's during Lent. 
NewII 

University 
leprechaun 
pizza 
We use only the choicest leprechauns; light­ly killed and sauteed in a puree of bat guano. 

And we deliver!! 

By RUPERT MURDOCH attention to human and civil rights. money we're talking about. We give News Stuff Why they could take away our keg of 10,000 bucks apiece to this place Michelob at Horby Hall. every year. They've been running it 
The Absurder General Bored has "It's an outrage," said Pittsburgh, on their own for 142 years, and it's ordered the University to join the characterizing the stalemate as "a got to stop." Absurder budget system by May 1 or tempest in a teaspoon or aT-shirt, or Another Absurder editor, Mar­
1,'
face the cutoff of nearly something like that." 
garet Curly Larry-Moe, said $200,000,000 the University has TheAbsurder does not plan on ex­"Financial decisions made at a uni­earned by investing in South Africa. ercising administrative control on versity determine its educational 
TheAbsurder demand is the result the University, provided the Univer­content. Proftts are prophets." of a Unit Control Budget Control sity doesn't do anything In a surprise move today, System Control System audit con­"outrageous, like extending Jerry Dzqczizcdzk announced plans for 
ducted last year when The Absurder Soused's coaching contract," 
the formation of an Absurder ad­discovered that Father Van Wool 
according to Editor Dzavid Dzqzk. visory board for the Office ofSexual Veneer and Father William Blow­
"We insist that they have com­Activities. The director ofthat office, chow had spent nearly S1,200 on plete administrative freedom. 
Dr. Ronald McDonald, expressed beer and hard alcohol without Otherwise their secretaries would outrage when he heard the plan, soliciting bids from competitors. 
be out of work. Number one, they claiming no one had discussed the 
University President Father Ted are administratively free, number matter with him. Pittsburgh said, 'Til be damned ifl'm two, they'll just have to get our ap­"No one ever talked to me," said gonna let these kids be my mommy proval before they spend money on McDonald. "I think I have a ftne and daddy. IfThe Absurder controls anything," Dzqcizd said. 
record here, what with my ex­University ftnances, they could force · "All we're asking for is accoun­perience helping out An Tostal, the 
us to invest in companies who pay tability," he continued. "It's student Math Club and this year's senior trip 

We're justa phone call away • • • ... but you can't talk to us. .. ... because we've taken our 


phone off the hook!! 
Sometimes people forget that 
Spastic Magazine is located 
anywhere. Sometimes people 
forget that Spastic Magazine 
exists. Every day we used to get 
obnoxious complaints. Here's 

how we handled them. 
Don't call !JS at (219) 239-7569 because we won't answer! 
to the Bahamas." 
Dzqcdizcdzkykcz insists that McDonald was informed ofthe plans at a meeting last spring. "Last year Dim Rumor and myself suggested to McDonald that maybe he need a little help. He agreed and agreed to 
1 help us form the board." "No I didn't," whined McDonald. "I was in an executive meeting with An Tostal Director Gay Jeedy. Student Body Wimp Brainless Cel­lophane got wrapped up in the 
: dispute this afternoon. "The Absur­der is just not being fair to the ad­ministration. It is obvious that a mediator is needed and, since I have nothing better to do, let it be me. Besides, it will look good on my resume. I prefer pubic relations to accounting, anyway.' Cellophane then asked that we devote the remainder ofthis column .to his sex life: 

,....................................___~~~------""------.-.--.... --..... . 
IJ 







ViewP-ointless 
Long ago, in a galaxy far away ... -page 8 

P.0. Box Queer  1--------------------------------------~ More boring drivel  
throw ofour duly and democratically elected Senior Fellow, Saint Augustine, and the in­On and on credible, although unsurprising, expose ofthc Dear Editor: misuse of alcohol by such officials as Father What gives you people the right to play God Wally Bonechewer, it is nice to hear that one with the opinions of the people of this fine good thing has happened lately: one of the (sic) university? most notorious Irish terrorists, Paul "Mad All I ever rt·ad in the Viewpointles..o; page is Dog" McGinnicuddy, has finally been "roped" lcttt·r after letter t•xtolling the virtues ofThe in. Absurder staff. I'm quite sure that you receive This maniac has been known throughout some criticism. Do you think you can really his career for trying to use the Catholic hide your faults by not printing letters point­Church ~ a front for his activities. He tried to ing them out? force on the unwitting Irish bans on soups, !think not. candy, hot shower water, alcohol, razors, In fact, I have a few complaints, and I think combs and fun in general. you should print my ten-page, hand-written His acts of terror are not confined to the list in its entirety. land of the Irish. He is widely suspected of My first complaint has to do with the View­complicity in last year's sabatoge of a passen­pointless page itsd( I already mentioned the ger jet ncar his home ofNew CreampuffCity. editorial liberties -censorship -that you He claims to oppose investments in South take. But it's even more subtle than that. By Africa and elsewhere. Of course he does! He requiring letters to be well written and typed, wants investments in his own front organiza­you arc indirectly limiting the right to be tions to finance his revolution; which is doing heard to rich throats. That hardly seems like a rather well. Insiders reported that his bank ac­reprcst·ntativc cross-section of the male stu­count shows an increase of S200,000,000 in dc:nt body hc:re. the past year. The informants were brutally as­And your limits on the length of letters? sassinated before they could determine the Ridiculous! If I have a lot to say, and I do, I'm source of his gains. It is certain that they are  
going to need more than 250 words. How do donations from poor souls who believed his you know that what you cut is unino •~ '-­nco-idealistic messajZe. whnr '···:.;··.;.;"_'_.---------­Yet the demon McGinnicuddy docs not confine himself to merely killing andJackson & watermelons maiming, like most ofhis ilk. Like all bullies, he knows when he is overmatched. He hides be­DearEditor: hind the power of his poison pen at the I hereby condemn The Absurder for print­mouthpiece of his revolution. He hypocriti­ing such a racist cartoon as appeared on a cally pretends to be for the right, in order to recent Vicwpointlcss page ofthc paper. win over the misguided masses. In the cartoon, a Hymic can be seen giving Now that thil> devil has been captured,Jessejackson a watermelon as a peace offering justice is due. The Bible says "ff anyone mis­-clearly a racist statement on the part ofThe lead any ofthese poorstudents, let him be cast Absurder editorial bored. into the sea with a fieldhouse stone around his  The year 1984 is an election year. That did other tidbits is his latest critical work, means unimaginative columnists like me StuffI Know, published by Doubledate, bore you to death with political drivel all 1984. I just read the book, so I can brag year long. about it. When I was a kid, I lived in a fantasy Violence sells and ifit did not it would world or, to be more precise, a world in surely, like quality programming, be banished from the nation's airwaves. That, and not the alleged ability ofMax Richard Lerner Cohen children to tell reality from make-believe, is why it persists on television. The onlyAnother column TV executives who think otherwise are those who never were children.  
You kids just hatt: blacks, don't you? Never neck" (New Uberally Paraphrased Edition).mind that the cartoon was funny and obvious­Since I believe in protecting the environment,ly satiric -it was outrageous, hate filled and I would not so pollute the oceans. unchristian. I bet you like to drop-kick babies 00. Yours ever, ever, ever devotedly in Notre I hope you go to hell.  And that's a shame,· because I really which my fantasies were different than liked jessejackson until he lied to me. they are now. Once, for instance, I wore I think I'll end this column with anoth­my bathrobe as a cape, yelled, "Up, up er cut~ ending. Bye. and away!" and dove offthe end ofa bed  

Yours ever devotedly in Notre Dame ­
Rev. john V. W. 
McGinnicuddy crap 
'Jear lid/tor: 

With all the bad news being published late­ly, from the rampant '-'heating in Dr. Weenic llalfman's das..~ and the subsequent temper tantrums thrown b) that official, the over· Dame (and Christ too) ­
Father Theocrat M. Hindenburgh 
Do you like what you read in The Ab­surder? If not, write to P.0. Box Queer and tick us off. If you don't agree with us, though, you are probably a communist ig­noramous. So we won't print it anyway. Sign it though, so we can have a good time abus­
ing you. 

This was my first experience with schizophrenia I'm a damned funny columnist, ain't I? 
But it was the kiss of Patrick Caddell's campaign scenario that woke me up, and Gary Hart too, for that matter. It was Hart's noisy, clamorous awakening that rudely woke up Walter Mondale. 
An internationally reknowned biog­rapher, Pyle Moron, relates these and sor-
Max Richard Lerner Cohen is either in his early 80s or mid 40s, be lives in New York and South Bend and Washington 
D.C. and California. He loves Ronald Reagan when be writes as Lerner, and bates him when be's Richard Cohen. Ac­tually there are no such writersas Cohen or Lerner, I made both ofthem up so I could write tbrr!e times a week without anyone knowing. 

Campus laments: Why do you hate Absurderphotographers? 
someone who rarely even bats a part ofme they're photographing. lash. 
I.C.Yu Father Knows Best Rosie Cheeks G.H.Ruth Stevie "Wonder" Nicks Linguist Neosynephrlne Priests Ass. Professor Professional Slugger Musician/Sex ObjectFrench Lick, Indiana Nasalsex, Michigan Sam Houston lost. ofTech. Lo~e,Kentucky Fleetwood Ma. 



230 Corby Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-6383 Editorial Bored Nuts Behind The Absurder is the pseudo-indt.-pendcnt newspaper published by Figure Bonebead......................Boob Vander Shyt · the Wheel the students of the University of Nuctcr Dame du Lack and Saint Yes-Man.....................................Murk. Whatevrusay ApplianceRepairman ..........Cretin Whattamess
Mary's Preppy S'-·hool. It never reflects the policiesofthe administra­Painting Contractor........................Siave Tactless Spurts Editor......................................Miss Needless
tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as late and as slanted ExecutiveLoudmouth............Margraft Thatcher Viewpointless Editor.......Rave Groty-Tuthemax
as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon (sic) ofRupert Embe=ler .....................................Mairy Put Horny Suitcase Editor............................~ .....Mary A. Phule
Murdoch. Letters represent the views of stupid, loud-mouthed, ob­Snews Editor....................................). Footsie Beals Porno Editor ..........................................Pest Lackey
noxious dolts. Column space is available to all members ofthe com­Newts Editor ..............................Drab McColorless munity with enough money, and the free expression of varying PaperBoy........................DeafO'Shytihittacanopy 
Founded November3, 1966 opinions on campus, through letters, is discouraged, because we SMCButch ....................................Mary A. Richman throw them away anyway. Sold Out December 1983· 


Suitcase 
Long~go, in agalaxyfar away ... -page "} 

The Music of 1918 
by Boob Ban derShyt and Sick Cruelty 
W 
ith the onslaught ofuncom­prehendable music videos and the overall lack ofquality music produced in 1983, we, The Absur­der's uninformed music critics, have 
decided it would be in the best inter­est ot its readership to overlook this year's noise and instead, rate the music of 1918, a truly memorable year. Top Ten Singlesof1918 
1. 
"Suffragettesjust Want to Vote," by Susan B. Tony. This single comes offher just released album of never before released songs ofthis women's rights agitator. Tony's career got a slow start in Massachu­setts but skyrocketedonce she hit the Empire state. It is probablysafe to predict that Tony's career will peek in 1920, but ifher fans can keep the memory alive, perhaps a piece of currency, no, how about a coin, yeah, a coin might be named for her. 

2. 
"99 Hindenburgs," by the Humanity. When it first hit the music scene, "99 Hindenburgs" blazedlike a star. With such musical geniuses as the Humanity producing this chart-topper, we can only hope that they don't burst our zepplin by letting their talent bum out too quickly. The flowing melody and strikinglyricsleave us in awe. All we cansay is, "Oh, the Humanity." 

3. 
"Build the First Train to Clarksville," by Cornelius Vander­bilt and the Raiiroad Tycoons. Not much can be said about this group as this is theirdebut single. But there is no denying that it is sweeping the country from sea to shining sea We see Vanderbilt as developing some­thing ofa cult following, however, so someday soon, the Railroad Tycoons will probably be forced un­derground. 

4. 
"Imagine," by Vladimir Lenin. Finally, ourcountry is learningan appreciation for this revolutionary. He has been stirring crowds in Rus-



The real story behind 
CRAP 
By IMA DRUNK D 
Wine Taster 
"Sure I like to get blasted out of my skull every now and then! Who doesn't?" revealed an official on the Committee Refusing Alcohol to People. 
The CRAP official, who asked not 
to be identified, but who is Father 
Wally Bonechewer, said the real 
reason the committee has decided 
to ban alcohol for next year is to 
hold down administrative costs. 
"Like, we can get a special deal for our own brew, ifit's just us," Bonec­hewer commented. "But our sup­pliers feel like they have to jack up prices to stay competitive if there are students involved." 
But financing the wild parties in Horby Hall is not the only reason CRAP is making the campus dry. "Let's face it, the students move off campus, get killed and what happens to their tuition money? The parents are so upset they forget to ask for a refund. We could save hundreds of thousands of dollars a year if we don't have to process the dead stu­dents." 
When asked if his stance was moral, Bonechewer snapped, "Who the hell cares? We're dealing withal­cohol, understand, not some minor issue like abortion or apartheid! " 
featureless staffscribblers 
siafor some time now, so it was only a matter oftime before his style and fire caught on here. This single is representative ofLenin's whole style and philosophy ofmusic. The line from "Imagine," "Imagine all the people, living as communists" says it all. 
5. 
"Is It Gonna Fly Now?" by the Wright Brothers. It took this group a long time to get offthe ground, but once they did, Orville and Wilbur soared. For much ofthis year, their song floated at the No. I spot but then itdipped, and lost considerable altitude. Now it hovers at No. 5. This didn't keept the Wrights in the han­ger long, though. They are back in the studio taping an album. Al­though it is not complete, such songs as "Leaving on a Bi-plane," and "We May be Wright" are sure to be included. 

6. 
"Innocent Man," by Sacco and Vanzetti. The entrance ofSacco and Vanzetti on the American music scene marks the beginning ofthe Italian Invasion. These two have drawn more media attention in the last seven years than any immigrant duo to date. The two have made a killing in record stores in every major city, but as trained uni­nformed music critics, we feel that both Sacco and Vanzetti may soon see an abrupt end to their music careers. I guess it's no more "easy money" for these two. 

7. 
"Nobody Told Me There'd be Wars Like These," by Woody Wil­son. After an exhausting tour of Europe where Woody was working 


on a live album, the man has come 
home to release this new single. Al­
though its reflective lyrics and sin­
cere melody do redeem this last 

ditch effort by Woody to stay in con­trol ofthe pop music industry, the country is tired ofsocially conscious music. The people want to roar! Maybe in the next decade. 
8. 
"Knights In White Satin," by the Imperial Wizards. This has to be the first successful attempt by a band of hooded men (or women, who can tell underneath the hoods) to reach the top ten. Some critics are saying that these guys are just a gimic, that there is no substance behind the cross burnings and lynchings. Such critics are obviously informed. We wouldn't tell the Wizards they are superficial to their faces, that's for sure. 

9. 
"Archduke In Pain," by Franz Ferdinand. A few years ago nobody outside ofSarajevo knew ofFranz. He started out playing small clubs and bars in this eastern European na­tion. Then suddenly, he was shot in­to the international music forum like a bullet. Many attribute this to his manager, an unknown Serbian nationalist. There seems to be no stopping Franz. His style was once unique, but now countless groups are adopting it. 

10. 
"My Little Red Model-T," by Henry Ford. Hot offhis new album, 1939, this dance single has the na­tion shaking their booty. It has in­spired such dances as "The Horseless Carriage," and "The As­sembly Line." 



Lack of Infonnation Services 

Guest lecture 

Dr. Egglebert Vdn Schtinkenstein, renowned international authority on congenital deformity, willpresent a guest lecture on "The Impact ofOperons on Enzymatic Catylized Left-banded DNA Synthesis in Hominidae Primates," tonight at 5:37 a.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Schtinkenstein studied underjane Goodall andgraduatedfrom the University ofZimbabwe. He is currently top banana at the In­stituteforAdvanced Cranial Research in Munich, Germany. 



What happened. 

•MUSIC 

Last Saturday in the Franenberg Auditorium a Senior Kazoo Recital 
swelled the room with such less than melodic strains as "73.5 
Trombones," "When the Sinners Come StumblingIn," and ofcourse, 
the "Notre Dame Humiliation Dirge." This musical extravaganza 
began at 8 p.m. Saturday morning and admission was the promise of 
your first born child. 
The night before Saturday featured a Grounds Crew Recital in 
Adams Hall at 8. The performance had been scheduled for 7, but it 
took longer to rake the leaves offSouth Quad than expected. There 
was no admission charge, but during intermission, the audience was 
directed to clean up the garbage outside ofthe North Dining Hall. 
Winding up its sold out world tour, Saint joseph's Elementary School Second Grade Choir of South Bend packed the ACC Friday night. Student Union Concert Commissioner, Fred Lenrody called the show "the concert event ofthe year. It's not easy to find a group that will interest enough students to make a S.U. concert financially feasible. We were lucky St. joe's was available ... I try really hard to get live music on campus. I really do, really, honest guys." Only one unfortunate incident marred the otherwise enjoyable evening. During the group's third encore, a delirious SMiC Chick jumped on stage and threw herself at little Oggie Brown, interrupting his solo, "Matilda had a Little llama" The Chick explained, "But I love Oggie, I wouldn't hurt him. I have all his albums. His picture is under my pillow. I can't live without kissing him just once. Oggie, I love you." 
•THEATRE 

In its only area appearance, the Theatre for the 6Und concluded its two week run in the O'Crylin Auditorium. The company performed Friday evening and the next night too. This was a slight change from the weekend before when they performed Satur4ay night as well as the prior evening. Those who saw the show tke second Saturday received a special treat. Flying in from Paris especially for the show, famed mime, Marcel Marceau made a special guest appearance. When asked to comment on what a thrill it was to perform for such 
burdens to society, Marceau replied, " !" · · 
•MOVIES 

It was Double Feature Weekend last weekend iti the Anthropol­ogy Auditorium. "Mary Poppins" and "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" drew large crowds Friday night. It was a supercalifragilistic­expialidocious evening as movie goers joine4 in the. fun of the second flick. The frrst movie started at 7:15 and doors were locked between movies, though some of the more squeamish were able to squeeze through the shattered glass of the little:tiny window in the door. Admission was $1.26 but ifyou dressed up like chat:actersfrom 
either movie, there was a $1 discount. 
•CHAUTAUQUA 

Sponsored by Howie Hall, in cooperation with P-B, Dullen, and Pious CrucifiX Halls, "Your absolutely last, never again to be repeated chance to dance any way you know how'' was the place to be in MisFortune last Friday night. Students tripped the light fantas­tic in every way from the alleycat to break dancing. Not even this event, dry as it is, could go without a touch of calamity. Disaster struck when ajennifer Beals' look-a-like whose name has been with­held to protect jennifer Beals flashed a male student who looked nothing like Ben Vereen and was attacked by a pack of sq~irrels on 
the make. 
•THENAZZ 

Demonstrating that the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student bodies are not just a bunch of engineering social outcasts, and ir­responsible drinkers, the Nazz Competition saw at least two credible acts, maybe even three, do their stuff on stage Saturday evening. (Laverne de Boom Boom from Regina South does not count.) First place went to Joe Schnoz and joe Honker, amateur nose wrestlers. First (and only) runner-up was Will E. Graduate with his touching rendition of "Notre Dame, Our Mother" sung to the tune of "The 
Victory Clog." 

········~························ 
The Muzak Store in your neighborhood 
is having a sale. That means that records are sold at a discounted price, boys and girls. Such chart-topping albums as "Mr. Rogers' Greatest Hits" and Country Music for People Who Like Classical Music" are on sale while supplies last. S6 hurry on in, but be sure you look both ways before crossing the street. 



Spurts Briefs 
Righty Smythe's hockey team has been 
promoted by Athletic Director Mean Incorrigible to the National Hockey league. The team, however, will not receive any additional scholarships. When asked what the purpose of the move was, Incor­rigible said, "We felt that it was time to make a commitment to excel­lence in hockey. We figure that we can draw about 200 fans to each game, which is about 190 more than we have been getting. It will allow us to turn a profit on the program and even turn on the lights in the ABC (An and Bingo Center) for the games. We should be able to compete with the Pittsburgh Penguins within a year or two, depend­ing on how many players transfer to other schools." -TheAbsurder 
An Interhall Wet-Willy Contest will be 
sponsored by the NVE (Neophyte Voyeurs and Exhibitionists) Office. Signups for the various weight classes begin tomorrow. Entrants are advised to wear a paper bag over their heads while measurements are being taken. The competition will be held in the Morrissey Chapel where a temporary stage has been erected. -The 
Absurder 

AValparaiso fencerwas killed during a fencing meet with Notre Dame yesterday afternoon. The fencer died in the middle of a epee bout with Irish fencer Franz European. European was awarded the bout on the basis of number of touches.-The Absur­
der 

In a SUrprise move, Roben Irsay has moved the new Indianapolis Colts to Kalamazoo. The move came as a total shock to Indianapolis and its mayor, William Wingnut. "We agreed to give Irsay an interest-free S 1 billion loan and even wash his underwear three times a week. Not to mention that everyone is Indianapolis was going to name their first-born son after him." According to repons in the Kalamazoo Gazoo, Kalamazoo agreed to call lrsay "King Robert" in return for the franchise. Irsay now has the power to sen­tence any person in Kalamazoo to death. In a related move, the city of Baltimore has claimed the Indianapolis Speedway as payment for the loss of the Colts. Said Billy Don lowenbrau, Baltimore's mayor, "We felt that it was only fair to replace Irsay's motor mouth with a speedway. The exhaust fumes are about the same.'' -AbsurdPress 
The varsity SPUD teamtravels to Tahiti this week, vying for its seventeenth international championship in a row. Team members will spend the first ten days practicing on the beaches in preparation for the game against famed contender Bumbleschmuck Community College. The coin toss has already been completed and it has been decided that Bumbleschmuck gets to throw up the ball first. However, team captain Tom Slobby expressed optimism about the game, saying, "The team has become extremely skilled at run­ning in more than 300 different directions whenever the ball is thrown." The event will be televised live on all networks April 13, 
•and the Student Union is sponsoring a bus trip to the game for SPUD team fans, leaving the main circle today at 6. A pep rally will be held tonight in ND Stadium. Get there early for seats. -The Absurder 
Long ago, in agalaxyfar away ... -page 10 
Head tetherball coach 
Some small talk with Bigger 
ByJACK STRAP 
AthleticProtection 

It's a very, very sunny day in Head Tetherball Coach Bigger Kelps' office. The rays of light bounce off the Van Gogh paintings that adorn all four walls of the room. Behind a big desk, Kelps is leaning back with his feet propped up and a Cuban cigar perched in the corner of his mouth. 
"I was talking with a good friend of mine, Vladimir Beloved, coach of the Russian tetherball team, the other day on the Left Bank in Paris," says Kelps. "We were sitting there discussing all the problems of the world when I said, 'Hey, I think we ought to abolish all nuclear weapons and all tetherball players who don't have the grades to get into Neutered Dream.' 
"Vladimir looked up at me and said, 'You hit hammer on the head, Bigger.' Hey, so what if he doesn't know English very well? Neither do most college tetherball players. It goes back to their grade school days. They don't have solid fundamentals in math, English, and reading skills. Math teachers are lured into private industry for financial reasons. Hey, they can make S20,000 after five years of teaching, or $50,000 to S75,000 after five years in private in­dustry. It's obvious what they will do." 
Obviously, it's easy to get Kelps into discussions about the problems of the world, but he is much more tight-lipped when the topic is his tet­herball team. 
So what about the team? 

"I never thought there was any question about tetherball succeed­ing at Neutered Dream (sic)," he answers. "What was easy about it was you were just taking another phase of Neutered Dream and sell­ing it on success that already existed. Neutered Dream wins in football (sic), so you had everybody primed to take it over in winter. If it w:!Sn't for football none of this tet­herball sutcess would have hap­pened.'' 
Now that Kelps has disclosed the reason for his teams failure, he can't, be stopped. 
"I used to have a narrow vision of the world and, when I became a coach my vision became even nar­rower. I lived tetherball 365 days a year. When I became tetherball coach at Neutered Dream, I thought I had gone to heaven. Then, in 1975, I took my first trip to Europe. It's hard to explain the impact, but all of a sudden I saw another world. I went to museums in Paris and London and Amsterdam and I was overwhelmed by what I saw. 
"I fell in love with Van Gogh. I studied his art. I studied his life, his struggles, his sorrows. I stopped being co~sumed by tetherball. The change was visible. I took down the plaques and trophies in my office, and I put up paintings. I switched off the hard rock music and tuned in 'to classical. I even gave up the colorful sports jackets that had become my trademark and bought three-piece suits. I still care very much about tet­herball. I still want to win. But there are so many things in the world, so many things just as important and more important." 
Talking to Kelps is a unique ex­perience. It would be safe to say that he is a pretty opinionated person. Of course, there are others -usually impatient alumni -who have their own opinions. One opinion is that I wish teams never play up to their potential. Three straight years with­out an NCAA Tournament ap­pearance can do that. But Kelps is quite philosophic about the criticism. 
"My motto is, 'You weren't born to go undefeated. You were born to learn how to survive in everyday 
I' life.' 

"I hate to say it, but tetherball is still a game. After it's over, it's time to go back into the real world. No matter whether you win or lose, the 
I sun is going to come up the next day. There's always tomorrow. I admire Father Huddleburger because he's been involved in civil rights, world hunger, and nuclear disarmament and still is a university president. I used to be a tetherball freak. But I realized there's more to life than tet­herball. 
"One of the greatest things about Neutered Dream is .· . .'' 
Yeah, but what about the tether­ball team? Why no NCAA Tourna­ment? Who cares about Van Gogh? 
Forget it. 


Bello, Anybody? 
continuedfrom backyard 
an inch smaller than the 25-inch ball that the 37-year-old league 
(oops, I already said that) now (Hello again anybody?) uses in its 
77-game season in which all 20 teams play their four (Hello!?!) con­
ference members eight times each and the other 15 teams three 
times each.(Hello!!) 
Well What Do You Know? ••. Not much if you're still reading 
this column. But who the hell(o) am I to say you don't know any­
thing? Well, answer that in 50 words or less and send your 
(Hello!!!!!!!!!!) self-addressed stamped envelope to HELLO!, C/0 
Chump Frisbee (That's me), Space Filler, P.O. Box Queer, Neuter 
(Hello!) Doom, Ind. 
Dick ofthe (Hello!) Week .•• Dick Adest, ofcourse. 
Bruce Springsteen . . . has nothing to do with sports, but I 
figured you'd read my column if you saw his name. Got you (Hello 
again anybody?) again. 



Pacifieds 
The Absurder Nostradamus orafice, located on the third Hoor of Laughingstock Stu­dent Center (unless you're blind and have to count steps, in which case its the founh floor -but then again, if you're blind, I guess you wouldn't be reading this), accepts pacified grads from 3 a.m. until 4 a.m. every other Sunday and all holidays. Deadline for next-semester adds is 7 days from the start ofclasses. Drops can be made until the Friday after break. Charge is S 17.63 per 3.5 characters, including spaces. Bold text, centering ad copy, etc. is done with special codes, so if you try to design your ad with spaces, 
nothing happens and you get charged for the extra spaces ( ha ha ha!). 
Elkhart Club Bus Sign-ups Emil: I cheated! 
Found: Yellow TRUSTY pencil, fairly well Hey, dammit, I be looking for tickets to 
FOR SALE: Small midwest daily
Last chance to beat the rush home for fall Emil: I cheated! 
broken in, some teeth marks Call to any football games of them there Irish, newspaper. Circulation t 2,000. Good
break. $175 round tnp. Luggage extra. EMIL: I CHEATED! 
claim, I feel I deserve a reward Joe 0876. dammit. Because, dammil, God knows
NOTICES 
condition, integrity extra. Inquire 301 Ad·
Sign up Wed. Apnl4, 2·4 a.m. 
that Stiff Orsweeny only reserves tickets ministration. Notre Dame, IN 46556. BUCKSNORT, TENN. A great place lor LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST lor big-assed alumni who like to get drunk. Price: $70,000 negotiable, no signatures. 
Hire the handicapped. Blind typist needs 
LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST dammil, and knock people over in the
all those weary To1let Bowl travelers to work. $3.50 a page. Corrections extra. 
LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST parking lot, but who give $$$$$to the Uni· 
stop and refresh themselves. We are Also extra 1f original is not 1n braille. 
LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST varsity, dammit, because aher all stu­...and you never caught mel proud to announce the grand opening of 
LOST LOST My dog when I was about dents don't count at this school, money
Smiley's Standard and the brand-new, ATTENTION II II 
completely modernized BUCKSNORT lour. H was a real bummer until my does dammit. Call Gumble, dammlt, If PERSONALS parents bought me a german shepard. you can help: 283-1496 JESUS CHRIST WAS A MAN-GOD! 
MOTEL. Stop 1n and hear the tale of how I trained It to attack all the other kids InBUCKSNORT got1ts name. 
Thanks, we just wanted your attention. 
the neighbor hood, It was great. But Emil Wino Oscar! 
anyway If you have seen my other dog
HELP.. GET ME OUT OF HERE Need three tickets to Commencement, The Acadamy of Motion Picture Arts
I kind ol want to know what happened FOR SALE: Used rugby equipment. In·
EVERYONE IS WEIRD preferably near each other although one will award Notre Dame's beloved Dean of 
to It. Thanks Steve 4473. 
eludes uniforms and leather balls. Also,
LOST/FOUND I 
spot might do. Caii1-900-TRI-NITY. The Freshman Year, Dr. Emil Hootman, a 
once-used elephant walk wrist protectors. Also need ZZ-Top concert tickets, Yes The Best Performance by a University Of­Call the Motel 6 in Bloomington for more 
THREE MINUTES AFTER MIDNIGHT Ill call cost $.50 except on the west coast. coveted Oscar award Monday, April9, for 
Lost: Black Comb, Had 48teeth new , the details.
and Billy Joel and Pat Boone. ficial, Dean or lower, for his performance 17th is missing, No sentimental value, but FOR RENT 
as a humiliated chemestry professor Come see the Bengal Bout finals, tomor· tween 6:03 and 6:47 Mon. Tues or Fri. Friday, March 16, in the wake of The Ab­row, March 9, at Stepan. FOR RENT FOR NEXT YEAR----a place surder's major revelations on cheating I don't have anolher one. Call Mike be­
Thanks. Nuetered Dream, continued !rom last to party OC. We, unlike the administration and freshman. Said Hootman, 'It's all a 
season... 

HAVANA TRIP RESERVATIONS are due condone and encourage the irresponsible RIDES con job, anyway!" 
Found: Blue thing with purple and green today. Everyone is expected to be on the bumps. It smells really bad so call and use of alcohol drugs and casual sex. 
gets away with II," warns Kelps. 'If he
6 pm South Shore Friday. We will be Booked though mid-f'otlvember so call Godman is a wolf ramirezlllll 
claim immediately 8765 or 8766 , they doesn't return my property immediately, 
taking hostages, so bring your favorite can smell it too. now for early second semester reserva­I'll disclose all the under-the-fell dealings 
semi-automahc weapon. Remember, tions ;!'2-4402. 
of the tiddlywinks program." 

WANTED: Writers. No experience orwhen the guy wearing the red fez stands Found: II you are the person who mis­
up and yells ·HI, Jack" everyone is For rent· spend the weekend in Fischer talent necessary, just great and enduring 
takenly put a full plate of smelt on the con­Perhaps the biggest challenge tor supposed lo stand and fire at targets of Hall, see what a college weekend should Dear Aunt Em, 
faith in God. Please call the Spastic office 
veyor in the South Dining Hall I was kind Louse will be trying to improve h1s publicconvenience enough to retnve 1t for you so it would not really be like-no parties and lots and lots at 239-7569. God bless you. Hate Kansas! Hate you I Took Toto! image. Aher last wtnler's scathing article 
go to waste when there are all those starv­in the Chicago Screaming-Times, Louse
of studying, both Friday and Saturday Love, 
nile. Call8878. Dorothy
ing children in Africa. The World Hunger has been under a lot of pressure from
FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE: 

coalition (the people who walk out of lhe alumni all over the country. He does notThe Notre Dame Credit Un1on proudly an· dining hall with a hall-dozen donuts on seem to be letting the pressure get to him,nounces a new automatic teller machine Wednesday mornings because we are though. · will soon be placed rn LaFortune Student 
supposed to last at lunch) 6969. Dear Uncle Ted, Center, 1n the An Tostal office, located on 
~-T_IC_K_ET_S~' ~~__F_O_R_SA_L_E~ 
Hate Indiana! Hate you! Took the I don't feel any pressure at all," hethe second floor. 
Found: Silver Cas10 watch on silver band, Senior Class! says. "I never read that article although I slight diagonal scratch on face, silver I AM A 29-YEAR-OLD PRISONER know I didn't say those things that were
Love, band exactly 9 inches long, watch has HERE AT THE STILLBORN CORREC­CLEARANCE! We're clearing it to the Harold 
written. I can't believe those things that Typing in my home. $8 a page. Footnotes dual time zones, alarm, stopwatch, and TIONAL INSmUTE. I DON'T REALLY bare walls, folks. It all has to go by mid­were said about me. Just because Icoach 
extra Seml·pmlessional. Call283-9171 the engraving STAINLESS STEEL BACK CARE ABOUT MAKING ANY FRIENDS, night. SAVEl SAVEl SAVE! Check out like I'm still at Moeller is no reason to get on the reverse side, senal 847851, made BUT I JUST WANT TO SEE A NOTRE these bargains ....Kneepads, $4 {set of 
on my case." Summer Sales Position: Average ear· in Japan. Call to identify 8880. DAME GAME BEFORE THEY SEND 50 2) ...Bullwhip, $1.50 ...Christie Brinkley nings $27/week. Sell aluminum siding to KILOWATTS THROUGH MY BRAIN ON poster, slightly used, $ t . .Spine sup­
Louse still has two years remaining on 
Notre Dame and Western Mtehigan stu­LOST: BLUE THING WIT:! MAGENTA OCTOBER 22 AT DAWN. BUT DON'T ports, $5 Propeller hat, $5 
h1s contract so it really does not maner dents. Spend 5 weeks in Notre Dame and AND SILVER BUMPS I NEED IT AND I 
MAKE IT THE NAVY GAME BECAUSE (antique) ...Books!: "The BC Year: Ac­LOST: VIrginity. Not on campus ol 
how well the team performs this year Be· Peoria (Hell). Cessna necessary. No drug NEED IT BAD, REALLY REALLY BAD. 
THAT ONE'S ALWAYS BORING. HOW complishment" 1/2 page, paperback), course. If found return to me In return 
cause he is saying the exact things he addicts or pnson 1nmates need apply. PART OF HISTORY PROJECT. CALL ABOUT USC {OR IS THAT ONE IN L.A.) $.50 ... 'How to Brown-nose and Still 
said last year, though, it is sale to assume Lodging and I meal per week provided 1000. BECAUSE DON'TTHEY HAVE CHEER­Come Away Smelling Clean" (189 pp., 
for various favors. 
the team Will finish 6·5 in the regularwhile in Peona. Qualified students should LEADERS WITH BIG TA·TA'S, I'VE Cheek & Cheek, Inc.) $1.50 $ 
season again. call 1·800-ALUMINU. Ask for Gerry lost: A following. It's not too late to support BEEN IN HERE TOO LONG. PLEASE 25.99 ...HURRY .•.Sale ends 
Flatulence tor fun and profit.
Faust. Jimmy Carter lor the 1984 Democratic SAVE ME: SEND TICKETS (OR TV'S tonight •.•everythlllfl must goII Some ·We're this close," says Louse, holding Nomination, Come on he's a good OR STEREO'S OR A GAME OF say I've already sold out ...drop by his thumb five miles from his index finger. 
EXPERT COOKING DONE IN MY HOME upchucking Christian and there's always TRIVIAL PURSUITS) TO CHAIN SAW LaFortune, ask for Bwian Cowardhand or "We're a young team and we'll come to­"Where's the beef?" she said. I was never tor my husband only. Just thought you Amy, Billy and Rosalyn, Help us out MCGEE, M435563, P.O. BOX 1186, THE Biggy Schnoznik. Even Ollie Fretter'a gether real soon. Just give us time " so embarrassed. 
might like to know . NOW. BENDS, INDIANA, 44444. coming! 
Four years enough? 

................................................................ 
~sterday_______~-~-~-~~-ag-~-~-~_Y·-··~P-~-11 

Gloom County 
~------------~ 
HI. I'm Green Blister, senior crass precedent. I'd like to thank The Absurder for the unauthorized use ot their toclllttes for my campaign, 
The lmpoctNever FadMII 
and the S.A..O. lor making It all 
right. 

YH, WITH A SIMPlE 
MARKER AND SWEET 
GW/G>Ill. ~ 



Guidome Wretched Guindumb 

Burp Breath 
What does that meanm Well, did you happen to see\ "the Day Alter?' 



Near Side Giddy Larceny 

Not OnCampus 
•7:30 
am. Wake up calls, GET UP Dorms, Sponsored by Rude students who don't like to sleep. 

•12:00 
noon Lunch, Adventures in Dining. Grim Reaper, North and South Dining Halls, Sponsored by University Food Substitute Services, Cost: Your appetite 

•3:00 
p.m. Tiddlywinks: ND Wimps ;vs.Romper Room Kids, A C. C., 

•2:15 
p.m. Absolutely Nothing, Apathy Club meeting. 

•8:00 
-Concert, Kazzos and Combs, Kazzoo U. Chamber group., 13th. Floor Memorial Ubrary., 

•8:30 
p.m.-Lecture, A Happy Campus is a Wet Campus, Harry A., Sponsored by Drunk Drivers Against Mothers 

•9:05:30 
p.m. -SCREAM, Wake Up the A&L Stu­dents, Campus-wide, Sponsored by Center for Disrupting Education, 

•3:00 
p.m.-Contest, Walk on St. joe's Lake, The Big Guy, Up There University, St. joe's Lake, Sponsored by Divine Appearances Club, Cost: A miracle. 

•5:00 
p.m. -Meeting, Honesty is the Best Policy?, The Unknown Comic, Sponsored by Scoper's Society, 


I· 
TV Last Night 
Yesterday,Aprlll 
7:00p.m. 16 Ponrait ofa High-Priced Call Girl 22 Ponrait ofa Teenaged Call Girl 28 Portrait ofa Grade School Call Girl 46 Cute Pictures ofCute Little Girls 
8:00p.m. 16 TheA-TeammeetstheHappyHooker 22 Magnum P.l. entertains Clay Junior HighSchool 28 Man Houston visits the YMCA '9:00p.m. 16 The Facts of Life learn Different 
Strokes 22 Alan Aida sells out After M*A•s•H 28 Marilyn Chambers rides the Love 
Boat 

10:00 p.m. 16 Dirty Bathroom Seats and the Hill 
Street Blues 22 Cagney and Lacey Do Dallas 28 Alexis is Roarke's Fantasy Island 

11:00 p.m. 16 Mike and Maureen's Masochistic News Hour 22 Bob Hughes examines Debbie's 
Domino Theory 28 Ann Nyberg in front ofTed Koppel 
writer 

chant
7 Eng. tally 

Yesterday's solution 
37 Celebrity
monogram 

40 Upward
8 Comp.pt.

ACROSS 59 Grown 22 Light giver
NMOC 
9 Peaceplpe

1 Husbandof person 23 Bakery slopes
24 Foodflsh 10 "Hisword
Jezebel 60 Changes the worker 41 Patterned 
25 -Tennille burned
5 Locomotive structure of vowel
52 Kansas
26 Cupid

sectlona 61 Pub orders drum repair change
miler 
38 Leaveout 62 Gang 27 Relative 45 Movie lion· 43 Make brake 
53 Not any
31 Earpart

39 Aversion follower 
54 Robt.­
32 Arabian

41 Stay 63 USSR 
55 Relax 
Today's puzzle 
42 Bart or negative 46 F. Scott's 
57 McMahon and Ringo 51 Student wife Ames 44 Flatcap 56 US painter 47 Duty the 58 Permit 45 USphllan· 57 USphllan· painter throplst throplst 48 "Behold­like-" 50 Frog, often horse ... " 11 Feather
35 Shortfy 
49 "The Merry 12 Writing
9 Dogpatch 36 Houston 

Widow" mark: abbr. 
creator athlete 

composer 14 Moves
13 Underground 18 Tlemey­
slowly
vaults Webbfllm 1 Experts 

16 Story
15 Mollify 19 Computer 2 Stop 
20 Florentine
17 USdrama· memory 3 Vapor: 
painter
tlst 20 Season comb. form 

prince
28 Farm unit 21 Keystone 4 Maxor 
33 Carnival
29 Egyptian State Buddy 
attraction
light god 



founder 5 Short· 
(c) 1984 The Mob, Inc. 
34 Printer's
30 Irritating 24 Filches legged dogs 
Wanna make something ofit?
word
persons 
6 Swiss 

36 Furmer· 
t********************************** 

~ Ft. Lost her veil Revisited 
~ The ND/SMC students are gone. The bars are ~ closed. And Its raining. But we here at Student 
Ring
~ Disunity (or some such stupid name ·we can't ~ make up our minds). want to go back. And the iC van will return too. This time those folks at the ~ Alumni office have found two stinky dumpsters to 
Our 
iC park next to. ~ The cost? $300 for those of you stupid enough to : ... take a bus that doesn't go 80 miles an hour like 
Belles~
iC ~ ; ':'. the rest of us. We who planned the trip are going
it free. Bahahaha bahaha (mas), like our senior trip 
it friends. 
***************************************** 
r 
Long ago, in a galaxy far away ... -page 12
S~urts 
Berry Louse makes annual pledge to restore tiddlywink prestige 
By RHETT SCHMITT !-wish ever played up to their poten­ha~ ranked the Fainting !-wish No. 1 Frustratedjock Writer tial, they'd never lose a game." for 1984. Louse is cautious about the "Because most of the editors are 
The past few years have been upcoming season, however. Catholic and did not attend Boston tough ones for Berry Louse and his "We have a lot of freshmen, soph­College, we have decided to pick the Neutered Dream tiddlywinks team. omores, and juniors on the team, so, loaded !-wish as the top team again After advancing to the Sweet 'n Low once again, we have a young team," this year," writes Badly in this Bowl in 1980-81, the year before explains Louse. "With all those 18-, week's issue. "Hopefully, Louse's Louse succeeded Henry Heavenly as 19-, and 20-year-olds on the team, I presence will not make us look !-wish coach, the squad has suffered feel it is asking too much to expect foolish two years in a row. Besides. through three seao;ons of bad aim. them to compete with the 18-, 19-, our circulation could use another Even last season's trip to the Toilet and 20-year-olds from other schools. shot in the arm." Bowl has not been enough to get !­"We have a real tough schedule In an effort to make sure nothing wish fans off the Louse's back. again this year, so I would have to more than usual goes wrong this 
Now beginning his fourth year as think we'll finish about 6-5. We have year. Louse has invaded the rosters head tiddler, Louse is confident that to play Army on the road and they of all the other teams on campus. By Neutered Dream will get the help should be real tough this y~ar. After stripping the track and hasehall from the statue on top ·of the Doom all, they beat Moeller hy a touch­teams of vt·ry talented performeTs and live up to everyone's expecta­down last year and have most of like freshman sensation Calvin tions. their starters coming hack. We al:-o Hurdler. he ha~ guaranteed that no 
"lip to now, this has been the have to play Air Force again this year other Neutered Dream athletic greatest laughingstock of a tid­and they've beat us two years in a •. program will show his team up. dlywinks team in the country," says row, so I don't see how we can get He ha~ also attempted to get even Louse in his usual tenor voice. "This the team up to play them. It looks with head tetherball coach .Bigger is a crucial year for us. Either we like a real tough year." Kelps for using one of his players: earn back the respect we once had All 22 starters return from last Small ~:onder, by stealing head tet­or I will resign. No, I take that back." year's Toilet Bowl champions, a fact herball manager Spike Gorgar. 
Nobody can deny that Louse has not lost on the preseason pollsters. "Nobody takes something from the talent available to finish among Neutered Dream, despite Louse's me and gets away with it," warns the top five tiddlywinks teams in the presence, is ranked in everybody's 
continued in pacifieds 
country. In fact, if you believe Top 20. Once again,Snorkling News Predict Badly, the editor oftheSnor­kling News, Louse has had the talent ever since he arrived at South Armpit. 
"The mention ofNeutered Dream always arouses strong emotions ano we feel that, by picking Louse and his Fainting I-wish to capture the Na­tional Felt Tiddlywinks Pad, we can increase our circulation ten-fold," wrote Badly last spring. "Plus, if the 
PE kills ND in Blue-Gold game 
By RICK O'SHEA .nem. "You have to go with your AtrHockey Cbamp "We'll gel sooner or later. Things strengths," explained Louse. "We're 
Pasquerilla East beat the crap out are beginning to fall into place. only a step or two away from great­of the Neutered Dream football We're improving." ness. Really, you'll see." team yesterday, 52-6, in the 344th "I'm very proud ofour girls," said !-wish quarterback Heave Airline Annual Blue-Gold Game at Notre PE head coach Bertha Manley. "They was picked offforty-one times by the Dame Stadium in front of 59,075 in­showed today that they're nearly tricky PE secondary. Junior veteran toxicated, screaming fans. ready to compete on the collegiate Sal Sheerote intercepted Airline "We tried our best," grieved !­level. Hell, I'd love it if we could play twenty-six times, once for a touch­
wish head coach Berry Louse, "but I a practice game against somebody down return. 
guess our best wasn't good enough. like, maybe, Northwestern, you "Ooh, I love to sweat," Sheerote We've got a young team. know? Now there's a challenge." cooed after the game. "There's "We'll come together real soon. Louse refuted the comment, 
nothing like the smell of sweat on just give us time." saying "No, really, you guys. We're 
the playing field. Wanna see myFrt·shman Annie Buddy led the PE improving every day. We can't help muscles?"
air attack, riddling the !-wish secon­but improve." 
PE now returns to the task of
dary on 6 7 -of-81 passing for a The !-wish offense shone at times, 
trying to attain varsity status, while
Blut'/Gold record I,984 yards. Her especially when the sun glinted off 
the !-wish continue to train for the
prime target, sophomore Bette U. their gold helmets. On two occa­
upcoming season. "We'll get better,"
Cantcatchmie, hauled in 53 catches sions they fooled the PE secondary 
droned Louse. "No kidding. Next
for I,669 yards and five TD's. by passing on first down. Otherwise, 
year's freshman class could be the
"We made a few mistakes," ad­however, it was the same old 
best recruiting year we've ever had.
mitted Louse. "PE's a tough team. strategy of Plinkett-Plinkett-Pass­
"Just watch. You'll see."

You t·an't take anything away from Punt. 
Joe Mama does it with everybody 
as being an active member of the leaps of 30 feet in the long jump joe Mama, 5-9 split end for the I­Spanish, French and German clubs. while earning the nickname "Small wish football team and star perfor­Mama is also president ofthe finance Wonder." And in hockey, fans 
mer for Bigger Kelps' tetherball club, scuba club, karate club, yodel­branded Mama with the name "Small squad in addition to countless other ing club, and students-against-clubs Wonder" as he led the team to a 25-0 aoivitics, has agreed to a S60 mil­club. record. lion, 55-year contract offered by the In addition, Mama carries a 24-"He's easily the biggest asset we 
Neuter Doom Athletic Department credit schedule and is double­have," said track coach Grand Piano. 
in exchange for limiting himself to majoring in physics and chemical "He's a really talented individual." football and tetherball until gradua­engineering. TheAbsurder has also learned that tion. "He's a very talented individual," Student Body President Bib Fortuna 
"We felt such a move was ab­said tiddlywinks coach Berry Louse. has been discussing the possibility of solutely necessary," explained "We love having him around. Why, if sharing the presidency with Marna, Athletic Director jeans Corduroy. it weren't for him, well .... Well, I while among Mama's interested "He was just getting involved in too just don't know." recruiters nationally are the Hous­many other things to be fair to them Mama quickly became a star upon ton Oilers, Boston Celtics, Sperry­all. He's an extremely talented in­joining the soccer, hockey, and track Univac, MCI, Good Morning dividual." teams this year. Known to most as America, and the NASA Space 
At press time, Mama was actively "Small Wonder," he was the first in Program. involved in Neuter Doom football, Neuter Doom soccer history to "It's really all going so fast," com­tetherball, tiddlywinks, soccer, score over 100 goals in one season. mented Mama. "But what can I say? 
hockey, lacrosse, and track, as well In track, he set new records with I'm a pretty talented individual." 



1 


The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of· Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is 10 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters erda . 

Lost!! A brown velvetty sweat jacket. It's RICHARD J. BARNET THE WALTZ BALL IS BACK!! Try out H you have a personal computer and aNOTICES my favorrte, and jogging season is ap­FOR SALE your social dance skills from Freshman modem, you should try our computer bul­proaching If found please call Sue at WANT TO MOVE OFF CAMPUS? We're Year! Come waltz with Strauss and swing letin board service. Several hundred 2962. THANKS! looking for a 4th (female) tor Campus with Benny Goodman! Chautauqua, users from all over Michiana and beyond EXPERT TYPIST 277·8534 AFTER 5:30 FOR SALE: GREEN OVERCOAT, View. Call Ann 1264 or Keri 1279. Friday night, 8:30. to talk to and help solve your problems. LOST: German textbook, in bookstore LARGE, IN VERY GOOD CONDITION For more information call Kangaroo Kon· EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. cubbyhole the Wednesday before break. MARINE SURPLUS. BEST OFFER· ATTENTION: WE WANT TO BUY A cepts. Inc. at 277·5306 . Free
TO LISA KELLY, OUR FOOLISH
CALL MRS. COKER 233· 7009. If found, please return to Lost and Found CALL PATTY AT 8654 BOOKSTORE TEAM POSITION WILL demonstrations available. 
LITTLE BANDIT, NOW IT IS YOUR or Brian x6741. Thanks. PAY EITHER $25 OR 2 CASES OF TURN TO RECEIVE THE ABUSE:EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. BEER. CONTACT CHRIS AT 8555 OR
For Sale: Matching quilts and drapes, WHEN YOU ARE 21 YOU ARE A
CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. FOUND -BETWEEN D-2 AND GR.t.CE JOHN AT 3651. WE MEAN BUSI·
while with blue flowers. call7187. WOMAN, BUT SINCE YOU ARE ONLY 354 Theme Song:
ON 28. MARCH -MEN'S TIMEX NESSIllI 20, YOU STILL AIN'T NOTHING 'Even the Losers (Get LuckyTYPING AVAILABLE-287-4082 WATCH-CALL 6871 35mm C111118111ef Mlnolta XG-1 axe. HONEYI HAPPY BIRTHDAYIII LOVE Sometimes)"'
ERNEST HOLLINGS FOR PRESIDENT
cond., Rollel 35T w/flash good cond. MOBILITY, RESPONSIBILITY, AND IN­Hard Promises. Backstreet Records PROFESSIONAL TYPIST. IBM LOST:A red wool sweater in O"Shag MOCK CONVENTION '84 The Fiscally
Make otters. 284·5341. DEPENDENCE. P.S. RATIONALITY Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers SELECTRIC I. BUSINESS I sometime before break. If found please Responsible Candidate. DELEGATES, 
. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . ' . WISHES YOU AN EXTRA SPECIAL
ACADEMIC EXPERIENCE. 272-3134. call7101. Take a Good Long Look Before Choosing 
ELECTRIC GUITAR-MINT CONDITION HAPPY BIRTHDAY ALSO. ·CALL AFTER 5 233-9093 ...and to think we want to pass on the
a dedicated politician over a DEDICATED GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUBIIIIIII SERVANT!!!!!! ERNEST HOLLINGS for HAPPY BIRTHDAY SUE MAKEY!! WE final.. 
PRESIDENT MAKING tough decisions,
Collector"s item · Iron bust Knute Rockne lOVE YOU!-·KELLY, BETSY, SHAN­
FOR RENT 
not AVOIDING them. 

wrth stadium, field, football, dates 1924· NON, HEIDI, AND MARGARET. 
NEED CASH? Eam $5001 each achool 
SAINT MARY'S GIRLS· BEGIN THE year, 2-4 (ftexlble) hours per -k To St Jude, in thanks for favor granted 1929. Size 6x7. $100 or best otter. Con· 
HOUSES-FURNISHED -1 MILE FROM tact V. Benjamin at 4I 9-924-2907 or Please WHO sent me the beautiful rose?­SCRAMBLE!!! 
placing and ftlllng polltara on campua. 
CAMPUS 4-6 BDRMS, 2 BATHS CALL 283-4470. Lynn
Sarloua workers only; we give racom­PAT-Thanx for making Padre("the un­
277-3461 .... . . . . . .. . .. . .. . . . ....... . . 
manclallonL Call now for aurnmar I reidity of the real world") TONS ofMAXELL UDXLII"S $2.60 CALL STAN You Are Invited To ;;JESUS IN ATTENTION ALL MASS. MOCK CON­next r.11. 1..-243-6879. fun!Don"t Jorget···guys from1802 GREAT STEREO DEALS TOO. JERUSALEM" A SLIDE PRESENTA­VENTION DELEGATES -STATE
CSU.MSU, TCU,UTA, YALE,&ND(do they 
TION/LECTURE BY J E ROMEM URP ATTENTION ALL MASS CONVENTION WANTED TAPES· TDK's & MAXELL's LOW even co unt?);Louie's;passing out­H Y-0" C 0 N N 0 A, O.P. INTERNA· 
......................... MEETING MONDAY APRIL 2 RM. 107 
O'SHAG 7:30 BRING $2 AND ANYDELEGATES • STATE MEEllNG ·pat,don'tlet me die";'·do y'all ever walk oPRICES· CALL MEAKS 277-3306 TIONALL Y RECOGNIZED NEW TESTA­AMENDMENT PROPOSALS. QUES.
TONITE MONDAY RM. 107 O'SHAG n the beach at night?";·'how'd your chin MENTSCHOLARTUE S DAY. AP A I L TIONS CALL LISA 7953 7:30 BRING $2 AND ANY AMENDMENT get so chapped,Lisa?";walking thru
Boldon area couplea are -king 3 7:00P.M. H OWA AD HALL
PROPOS.t.LS QUESTIONS CALL LISA weeds-how many Whammies DID you
mature persona to help with child care IF YOU'RE NOT HAPPY WITH STU­
7953 have,Pat?;swimsuit competition; Usa
and houaahold responalbllltlea for one PERSONALS Theo Majors: Please attend the Special 
DENT GOV. STOP COMPLAINING ANDrobs the cradle;Dan-··usa's so rude";full

································································ year poaltlon In exchange lor room, Lenten Prayer Service lor members of GET INVOLVED! APPLICATIONS AND 
moons and the TEXAS SUN! Hope we
bollrd and wagea. Pleaaa call Kate the Theology Forum on Tueaclay, April 
JOB DESCRIPTIONS ARE AVAILABLE can make it down after you graduate­

Goldfield 111617-862-79112 or write: 283 OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. 3 at 10:00 p.m. In the Howard Hall IN THE STUDENT GOV. OFFICE-­
altho they say "there's a difference be­
Manett Road, Lexington, MA 02173. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE Chapel. DEADliNE IS FRIDAY. 
tween college and business life··. TONS of 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. w..\Nri:o.··;;~e··i~;;,~~~···;.;;··~···4A't love-LIS( the one with tar and sand on her
LOST:ND MEN'S RING. LOST ON 3115. SKIDDERS ARE GODS!!!!!! SENIORS IF YOU DISAGREE WITH
headband·"How'd you manage that?"-ft
YELLOW GOLD, BLUE STONE WITH Campus View Apts. Call Ann 1264 or Keri GIRLS:TIRED OF THE ND SOCIAL THE SENIOR FELLOW COMMITTEE'S
FELL off -1 SWEAR!!!)

NO ENGRAVED ON TOP. MY NAME IS 1279. LIFE? CALL OUR SERVICE AT 3727. After spring break, Skidders and New DECISION, VOICE YOUR DIS­ENGRAVED ON THE INSIDE. THERE IS York will never be the same. Where's my PLEASURE. CALL OR WRITE COMMIT­A REWARD FOR ITS RETURN. CALL NEED RIDE TO CINCY/MIAMI U. AREA "HE SUNSHINE BOYS ARE COMING II DR. SUESS is on the LOOSE! Are you hot dog? He's big in THREE dimensions! TEE CHAIRMAN MIKE JAMES...219 JEFF AT 8854. THANKS . FOR 4/6-4/8 CALL PAUL AT 1043 allergic to ALOE? The busrides. ALUMNI. .. PHONE-1 082. 
..,... i··,··; ··.-~r~,-~--~·~-(~-,·x~·x:-;·: .. \.. '.> :.: >·_·-~·,.-···:-::.~.-~'...,.~-~--~)~~-.:~;>~;~·~·-:;·::.j·:···:;.,, ,~,; ..<~:~:..-~:...·;_-~· ........_.,~-r~·T·i·:i· · ....~·;·i;,· ..>;)··_,"", • t>··:rtJ"'j''.i..i.... :JT"i-:;r~r··· '."il'OGt~(f''Jrtrr nr liL'i}'t;··u(J"~"TJ·;·:·i·:_~·;·~;::..~·····:~-~-~-:;·~: ~ .f· / l l ·-v 1 '.• ... ·,1 ~ .1 ~J t ·1 ) -1·: .. 
Sports Briefs 
The ND tennis tealll split its triangular match against the University of Hawaii and Ohio University. The Irish lost Friday to Hawaii 7-2, but reco~erated Saturday to overcome a tena­cious Ohio team 6-3. Earlier Saturday, Hawaii defeated Ohio 6-3. For more details, see tomorrow's paper. -The Obseroer 
A Bookstore Basketball scorekeepers' meeting will be held tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. Anyone interested in scorekeeping for the tourney, includ­ing those already signed up, should attend the brief meeting. -The 
Obseroer 
The squash ClUb will host a tournament April 6-8 for players at all levels. It is open to all students, faculty and staff. Sign­ups will be today through Thursday at the ACC courts. For more information, call Sean at 277-1405.-TheObseroer 
Mud Volleyball Sign-ups are today from 7-8:3o 
p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. Rosters must total six players, and there is no entry fee. Prizes will be awarded in the com­petition. -Tbe Observer 
Ultimate Frisbee Sign-ups are today from 6­7:3o p.m. in the LaFortune lobby. Rosters should include 10 players and there is no entryfee. Prizes will be awarded in the competition. 
-Tbe Observer 
The Women's GolfTeam.willhaveamandatory meeting today 2 at 6:30p.m. at Corby Hall. Traveling rosters for upcoming trips will be arranged. -The Obseroer 
Monday, 
In the NCAA finals tonight on CBS, it will be George­town against Houston. The Hoyas defeated Kentucky 53-40 to ad­vance to the finals. The Cougars edged Virginia 47-45 in overtime. The game is scheduled to begin at 8 p.m. -The Obseroer 
lnterhall field hockeyrepresentatives will have a meeting today in the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
The SMC softball tealll increased their record to 4-0 with a sweep over Bethel Saturday. In the first game,Julie Keig­her pitched a four-hitter, as Ann Trapp led the team with three rbi's. Jeanie Adamo and Mary Lynn Mulcahy each contributed two rbi's. In the second game it was the Belles victorious 8-5 behind a 15-hit attack Elaine Suess and Trish Nolan each went 3-for-4 with three singles. There next game is this afternoon at Butler. -The Observer 
A floor hockeyorganization meeting is today at 4 p.m. at the ACC football auditorium. -The Observer 
The ND lacrosse team defeated Kenyon College 17-7 yesterday. Steve Bearsall and Bob Trocchi each had five goals and one assist. -Tbe Observer 
An T ostalinnertube water polo still has a few spots lett for your team. Signups will be taken on a first-come, firSt-served basis at the Rockne Memorial pool, today and tomorrow from 6. to 8 p.m. Bring rosters, S7 fee and team name. -The Observer 
April2, 1984-page 13 
Track 
continuedfrompage 16 

Van Wie finished on top with a time of 3:20.94, bettering runner-up Southwestern Michigan by four seconds. 
The Irish runners dominated the 400-meters with a dandy one-two combination. Van Eyken smoked to the finish line in 48.6 seconds, and behind him came speedy co-captain Pearcy (50.04). In the 100-meters, Gilmore combined with Bell to finish first and fourth respectively. The duo also ran in the 200-meters with Bell taking third and Gilmore fourth. Freshman Paul O'Connell was the winner in the 400-meter In­termediate Hurdles, topping teammate Mike Brennan. Brennan also took third in the 110-meter high hurdles. 
Other Irish trackmen who turned in top-notch perfocmances include first-place finishec Jim Moyar in the 800-meters (1:53.67), Bill Courtney ( thitd in the steeplechase), Van Wie (third in the.1, 5QO-meters ), and co-'· captain Andy Dillon (second in the' 5000-meters). 
"It was a good day to run," said 
Piane afterward. "I was pleased. We 
had a lot ofguys in ditlerent events. 
Gilmore and Bell tripled. And we 
tried ditlerent combinations." 

***Candidate Debate*** 

A campus representative of present Democratic hopefuls will give statements, debate issues. TUESDAY NIGHT, APRIL _3rd 
7:00 • 8:00 in HAYES HEALY 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 'h&Apll3 
~~ 
featuring Sherri Woods in. the lounge 
.'S 
Tht. t. aot a •t.priat 

IO~TACOBAR 
Saa. -Than. 9p•-close 
Late Night Happy Hour 
Saa.-Than.---.lOp•-close 
$1.00 MARGARITAS 2 for 1 BARDRINKS 
(five •IDat..&o• ca•pae) 
139 W.~yA~ JIIIWulwUa, lndlluaa 46545 

.~.._\'..:'...,'""f'-\ 13.1"•'>~ilu·n 1-:·J·I·)rb'i'f'U'.•('t-1 bintl rfliW ?.b10:l'31 \;7".)[1 l,j~ r.Jrf. ,)j_..._,_r.j~ f'~J 11'..1-\f •".Jc" ,}"J4i....~ J)"lr;_ .lt'e'J11f'l .~1')~\:)\'·1-t 
~--T-~--~---~--r-----------------------------------------------------M--on_d_a_y_,A_p_r_il_2_,_1_9_84--~-p-~--1--4 
Football 
continuedjrompage 16 
yards and two touchdowns, while 
Abraham picked up 25 yards on 
seven carries. 
• 
Ron Plantz and Tom Doerger both performed well on the of­fensive line. The two sophomores are competing for the starting quick tackle spot which was opened up by tarry Williams' move lO the strong guard position this spring. 

• 
There's no doubt that the big­gest bright spot offensively Saturday was the play of quarterback Steve Beuerlein, who ran to perfection what offensive coordinator Ron Hudson called "a condensed of­fense." The 6-3, 203-pound Califor­nian completed 20-of-24 passes, including a 46-yarder to Jefferson and 1 5 in a row during one stretch, for 204 yards and two touchdowns. Three other quarterbacks saw ac­tion as well -Scott Grooms, who split the duties on the second unit withJoe Felitsky, connected on 6-of­9 passes for 38 yards, and Todd Lezon hit on 7-of-12 passes for 92 yards, including the longest comple­tion ofthe day, a 55-yarder to sopho­more flanker Pat Cusack. 


Hudson, whose plan has been to 
keep things simple this spring in or­
der to make things easier for Beuer­
lein and the other underclassmen, 
knows that the Irish have a long way 
to go -particularly offensively. 
"We've got a lot more running plays in our offense this spring," said the second-year offensive coor­dinator. "We've put a lot ofpressure on the linemen and the backs to learn them. But our passing game is not where we want it to be just yet. It is much more condensed because ofour youth." 
Faust was generally pleased with his team's effort, but was not overly enthusiastic. 
"It was a typical first scrimmage," said the Irish coach. "There were some good things and some bad things like dropped passes and penalties. The first part of the scrimmage had some good hitting, then we got tired and feeling sorry for ourselves at the end. But that's because we went for a long time. Be­cause of spring break, we haven't been able to condition them as we would like. But overall, I was impressed with our enthusiasm and intensity. 
"The goal is to be better than we were after the Uberty BowL If we can accomplish that, we, will have had a good spring. Right now we've obviously got a long way to go, a lot of work to do on fundamentals." 
Things are definitely starting to fall into place, but for the 1984 Irish there are still a lot of unanswered questions. 
IRISH ITEMS Francisco sprained his ankle in Friday's workout but the injury isn't con­sidered serious and the flashy fresh­man should be able to return this week ....Allen Pinkett dressed for Saturday's scrimmage but did not play, the staff preferring to see more of Jefferson, Flemons, and Abraham ....Sophomore Van Pearcy, who is challenging for time in the secondary, is out 3-4 weeks with a knee injury . . . . Haywood (groin) and Kleine (thigh) both suf­fered injuries Saturday, but should return in a few days ....DiBernardo suffered two pulled hamstrings during the week's practices and was forced to mis..-; the scrimmage -it's uncertain when he'll return ....Hal Von Wyl, a sophomore pun-, ter/placekicker, is out with a knee injury but should return this week ....With Von Wyland Pearcy out, the favorite to take over the punting duties is Mike Viracola ....Having fmished his stint with the Irish basketball team, split end Joe Howard will join the team this week ....Practices this week will be today, Wednesday, and Friday ....Next scrimmage is Satur­
~~Y-• 
.',• " ~ ' .. ' ,.' .. 
Attention all juniors interested 
One man tells another 
in bartending during the 1984-1985 school year: 
·n~rts 
S!cottsdaleMa11/U niversity_ Park 291-2808 277-4835 Downtown ... 289-5521 

Senior Formal 

rent fun, tailoring, fit, poise, fashion, excitement, style, confidence, enjoyment and more...at the lowest prices in town. Check us out... 
Tuxes $39.00 Talis $42.00 

Applications for bartenders at the Alumni Senior Club are now available at Student Activities. 
Applications are due by Fri. April 6 

When girls want a. vacation filled with fun, sun and romance, they go to Fort Lauderdale... · 

TRI-STAR PIGURES Pi!SIN~ FROM lTC PRODUGIONS IN AUAN CARR PRODUCTION "WHERE THE BOYS ARE" ~-USA HARTMAN· RUSSIU TODD ·LORNA LUFT ·WENDY SCHML· HOWARD McGIWN »>I) LYNN-HOUY JOHNSON tk. sW:ALANA STEWART ~~CHRISTOPHER McDONALD IITIOOJ(ING DANIEL McDONALD ~~:l~ LOUISE SOREL:~ JAMES A. CONTNER =SYLVESTER LEVAY 
rml/IDENIS PREGNOLATOICII!NPLIJSTU KRIEGER.JEFF BURKHARTPIOOIJ(~AIJAN CARRIIII{l~HY AVERBACK R  R.STRICT•D . Ullll 17 IIQUtiUIUUIIPAITIIII  
Alii-SW!IIIIfASl 0[)lDDU1'tB1'EREDl'" ltl1'184llf·lllflf'llliiiS-IUIIOF~IIIIl\!!J  PAIIIITOUDULTIUAIIOIAI  ®  
NSEI..fCm)Tl£RRES  

STARTS FRIDAY, APRIL 6 AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU. 

-~~-------------------.. 
~CJtcJlct~-------------------------------M-on_d.~-,A•p-ril_2_,1_98_4_-.~----15 

BloomCowtty 
1V CONtPIJTE ... ex? NOT 7lJ COMPIJTE ••. THP:T 1511£ QU65TION••. 
q 

Peanuts 

I QUOTE FROM Tf.IE TWENTIETH CHAPTER ANI7 THIRTEENTH VERSE OF THE 
BOOK OF PROVERBS... 
Guindon Richard Guinlon TheFarSJde Gary larson 
The 
ACROSS 
1 King of Norway 5 Entreaties 10 Plumbing problem 14 Mata­
15 Unusual 16 Little bit 17 Tent man 18 Reproduced 20 Baby's 
milieu 22 Stereo knob 23 Leaves 
24 Fill 25 Dorothy of sarongs 28 Scents 
31 Eastern noble 
Berke Breathed 
Wt£rrlfR 'TI5 NOB!.. foR. IN 711€ 
.. OR W1llK6 UP Ali'MS A6AIN5T Mf.II()RY IMNK .. 10 '!fff€1? 1Hf 
ll 5€A Of•. TRAN515TOR5. 5UNG5 ftlfJ CJKCIJIT5 OF 


011,10
WTRAGWI/5 FUNCriON5 .•. 
HACK WrTH IT. 
0 
0 


Charles Schultz 
11 LOVE NOT SLEEP LEST 
THOU COME TO POVERTY" 


In keeping with-the-decorum of the courtroom, food and souvenirs are no longer allowed to be sold during the Deloreantrial. Spectators will have to tailgate. 
Daily Crossword 
32 Macadam· 56 Pot opener 8 Famed 
lzlng man 57 Musical Dadaist 34 Bigwig practice 9 Sailor 36 Fabled piece 10 Crown 
flyers 58 Author 37 Ulan.-Hunter 11 Learning 
59 Equal method 38 Enclosure 12 Roman road 39 Fr. title 60 Passover 13 Goalie 40 Washington, meal Item 
to Chicago 61 Pro-19 Reynolds 41 Dinnerware film 42 Wise. city DOWN 
21 Possessive44 Capt. Ahab 

1 Cry of 24 Enjoy discovery taste of 45 Gaelic 
2 Lantern
46 -O'Brien· 3 Russ. sea 25 Pig product Moore 26 Love to 47 Fraction 4 Shrewish Pierre49 Wheel rod 

women 5 Wordwlth 27 Sacred 52 Bejust eye or corn cityright 6 Entices 29 Help54 Zhlvago's 7 Collar 30 Hassoof love type films 
32 Nameon 47 Antler 
check branch 33 From-Z 48 Major 35 Bose, e.g. suffix 37 Irish 49 Tater 
wallers 50 Eruption 38 Whodunit's product 
Raymond 51 QED part 40 Glee 41 Gab 52 Gen. Arnold 43 Core 53 Sault­44 38 D, e.g. Marie 46 Lyrical 55 Collected 
poem sayings 
Friday's Solution 
HAWK,FLEAS.GREY ACHE REACT.LACE F R 0 M L E F T 
T 0 R I G H T 
I C Y 
H A T E G I GOLO.WAGE ARM A R E N A. 0 A 
TEMPEST. 
z E G L EE BETE.MAKES RAPS ONUS.OREL OATES R E P•E 0 EN 
H 0 
ME L Y '-SLID 
MAN •A 
0 A M S •s A B IDT 
AGE T F 
E L 0 T 
T H 
G I RM 
0 R F R A 
C E •E 
L I 
0 T.A 
N E T I R 
K S •s 
0 N 
G S .N 
EMIS 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
4/2/84

All Rights Reserved 
Campus 
•12:15 
p.m. -Economics Development Workshop, "The Methodological Basis of Albert Hirschman's Development Economics," Prof. Charles K. Wilbur, Library Lounge 

•5 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Novelist and History: An Introduction to the Latin American Historical Novel," Fernando Del Paso, 115 Law School 

•7 
p.m. -Monday Night Fllm Series, "Klute," Annenberg Auditorium 

•7, 
9 and 11 p.m. -Fllm, "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club 

•7:30 
p.m. -Panel Discussion, "Life After Graduation," Library Lounge · 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Fllm Series II, "Hawks and Sparrows," Annenberg Auditorium 


TV Tonight 
7p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
I p.m. 
9p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30 p.m. 

16 MASH :z:z PM Magazine Z8 Joker's Wild 
16 Barney Miller :z:z Family Feud :Z8 Wheel ofFortune 
16 TV Bloopers and PracticalJokes :z:z Scarecrow and Mrs. King :Z8 Automan 
16 Monday Night at the Movies :z:z NCAA Basketball Final :Z8 ABC Monday Night Movie 
16 NewsCenter 16 :z:z 22 Eyewitness News :Z8 Newswatch 28 
16 Tonight Show :Z:Z Hart to Hart/ Columbo :Z8 ABC News Nightline 

Seorts 
First scrimmage shows off young secondary 
By LARRY BURKE George Kelly with his play on Satur­Sports Writer day. Larkin is looking to return his I982 form when he started all l I Th~ Notr~ Dam~ football t~am games and finished second on the held its first organiz~d scrimmag~ of squad in tackles. If he continues his tht· spring on Saturday morning in progress, he will team with two-year sunny Notre Dame Stadium, and al­lettermen Tony Furjanic and Rick though th~ coaches kept things DiBernardo to give the Irish an out­simple, th~r~ was still a lot ac­standing starting crew. Add Mike complished in th~ two-hour affair. Kovaleski, joe Bars, and Dave Butler, 
Th~ major task of G~rry Faust and all ofwhom played well on Saturday, his staff at this point of th~ spring is and the situation at linebacker looks to evaluat~ play~rs in order to b~st bright. fill the vacant spots left by graduat­• Walk-on placekicker john Car­
ing seniors. In addition, the coach­ney, who handled kickoff duties last ing staff is looking to find year and is the preseason favorite to dt·pendable backups for proven replace Mike johnston, had a good starters -to give the squad suffi­day yesterday, converting four extra l.:knt d~pth to withstand injuries. point attempts and booting a 27­Significant strides towards ac­yard field goal in his two attempts. complishing both goals were mad~ Two other walk-on kickers also per­in Saturday's scrimmag~. particular­formed yesterday -freshman Ted ly concerning th~ following players. Gradel connected on one of two 
• 
lJpp~rclassmen joe johnson field goal tries, and sophomore Pat (strong safety) and Pat Ballage Chura made good on both of his at­( corn~rback) both p~rformed well tempts, from 27 and 32 yards. in the secondary, according to • Wally Kleine, a 6-8 278-pound defensive coordinator and defensive reserve defensive lineman, had a back coach Andy Christoff. Both will great day, racking up three sacks be counted on to provide stability in from th~ flip tackle position to lead an area that is a preseason question th~ second unit. Kleine, who will be mark for th~ Irish. a junior next year, should team with 

• 
Even more important were the jerry Weinle and Eric Dorsey to solid performances turned in by provide a solid backup for starters sophomores-to-be Steve Lawrence Mike Golic, Mike Gann, and Mike (free safety) and Troy Wilson Griffin. (cornerback). Both will be key per­• Offensively, the search for depth formers in the secondary this year, at tailback continued Saturday, and as Notre Dame tries to compensate with Hiawatha Francisco sidelin~d forth~ loss ofStacey Toran and Chris with an ankle sprain, the playing Brown. Also impressive at the cor­time went to Alonzo jefferson, Les­nerback position was sophomore ter Flemons and Byron Abraham. jef­Mike Haywood, a flanker last season, ferson, a split end last year, worked who could see a lot of playing time with the first team, picking up 46 this year. yards on eight carries, and also grab­

• 
junior Mike Larkin, the speedy bing five passes for 69 yards. 6-1, 219-pound lineback~r who sat Flemons rushed l 5 times for 55 out last sea.'i<JO with a brok~n arm, impressed insid~ linebacker coach see FOOTBALL, page 14 



The ObsC"rvt"r/Paul Cifardli 
Monday,April2, 1984-page 16 

Notre Dame's pitching stafffinally got on track as the Irish won three offour games this weekend, with 
Record 7-9 

Baseball team wins three of four 
ByERICSCHEUE~N In the second contest, the Irish was well in hand. Gallo was again 
Sports Writer were held to one run on three hits pleased, especially since Dobosh's 
by Indiana pitcher Barry jones. In­victory was the third complete game 
Over a weekend marked by im­diana rode this performance to a 4-1 in a row for Irish hurlers. 
pressive pitching, the Notre Dame victory. "Dobosh pitched well," said Gal­
baseball team managed to win three Indiana scored once in the frrst in­lo. "Although he got himself into 
out of four games to improve its ning, once in the fourth, and twice in trouble a few times, he made good 
record to 7-9. the sixth. Although Irish pitcher when he had to." 
On Saturday, the Irish travelled to Tom Conlin pitched a good bal­In the final game of the weekend, 
Bloomington to take on a very tough lgame, giving up only seven hits, the the Irish brought out the bats. 
Indiana University team. The team team did not hit well and made some Pounding nine hits off Dayton 
came away with a split of a costly mistakes. pitchers Shane Vandemark, Bill 
doubleheader, an impressive feat "Conlin pitched well enough to Brewer, and Brad Sevcryn, they 
considering the quality of the op­win," said Gallo. "We had oppur­crunched the Flyers, I0-4_ 
ponent. tunities to score, but we just didn't jack Moran, Dec, and Steve Pas­
"Indiana is a very fine team," com­do it_ We also made too many sinault each had two hits as the Irish 
mented Head Coach Larry Gallo. "In mistakes. When you play a good jumped out to a 10-0 lead after the 
fact, I think they have the potential team like Indiana, you can't give any­ftfth inning. Carl Vuono and Mike 
to be the Big-! 0 champion. They thing away." Woodcock each added a double. 
will at least be one ofthe teams to be Mike Trudeau, David Clark, and Pitcher Mark Watzke held the 
reckoned with in the conference." Dee each singled for the Irish. The Flyers hitless until the sixth inning. 
In the first game of the twinbill, doubleheader split moved the Although Dayton scored four times 
the Irish were able to hold the team's record to 5-9 going into yes­in the last two innings, it did not mat­
Hoosiers to one run, and took a 3-l terday's home opener against ter. Watzke took the win to move his 
victory. In the fourth inning, Dayton. record to 2-0_ 
shortstop Tom Shields drove in Mike Yesterday, the Irish swept a "I wa.~ very pleased," said Gallo of 
Metzler for Notre Dame's first run. doubleheader against the Flyers. In his team's play over the weekend. 
The Irish moved out to a 3-0 lead in the first game, joe Dobosh pitched a "Hopefully we're playing a little bet­
the seventh on Jim Dee's 2-run fmc game to gain his first victory, as ter, and hitting the ball a bit better. I 
homer. Notre Dame won 3-I. hope we can get back to .500 soon. 
Indiana could only score once off Although the Irish only managed We'll play some tough teams, but I 
Notre Dame hurler Buster Lopes on five hits against Dayton pitchers Tod hope we'll just keep fighting back" 
a seventh inning homer by Brian Brindlinger and Jim Stephen, they The Irish will get their chance to 
Trant. Gallo was very happy with combined th~se with six walks and even up their record on Tuesday in a 
Lopes' performance. two Flyer errors to score once in the doubleheader against Ball State. On 
"(Lopes) pitched a very fine game fourth and twice in the fifth. Wednesday, the team will begin a 
against a very fine team," said Gallo. Meanwhile, Dobosh allowed only long homestand with a 2:00 game 
"He threw exceptionally well." a run in the seventh when the game against Valparaiso. 
Irish performance pleasing at meet 
ByCHUCKEH~ 

the discus and the pole vault. Dave Charlie Hackett ( 4 1-1 ) all placed in 
Sports Writer 

Crandal finished fifth in the discus the triple jump. 
A field of six teams competed in and seniorJohn Langdon mustered a The I0,000-meters began the the early-season tune-up meet at fourth-place finish in the polevault. track portion of the competition, Cartier Monogram Track. The host However, Frank Schroer managed a with Notre Dames Dave Sarphie Irish joined Alma College, Western third-place finish in the high jump finishing third. Clocked at 32:34.0'5, Michigan, Southwestern Michigan, with a 6-2 leap, four inches short of he was twenty-two seconds off the St. Aquinas College, and Valparaiso the winning height turned in by winning time. Freshman distance in the non-scoring event. Dave Elliot of Western Michigan. runner John Furno pta~..-~d ftfth 
In the field events, the Irish per­(33:44.09).. formed well. The team put five junior james Patterson, the The Irish trackmen were nothing javelin throwers in th~ finals. Jim blossoming Irish star, was a standout but sensational in the relays, win­Hoff garnered a second-place finish performer in both the long jump and ning both the 4x I00-metcr and the with a throw ofl64 feet and one-half the triple jump. "The jumpers did 4x400-mcter events. Ed Kelly com­inches. Other Irish finalists included well," commented Kelly. "It wa.'in't a plimented the 4x100-meter team Jim Crandal, Steve Demartino, Andy good day for jumping." In the long that combined Irish stalwarts Phil Ferguson and Phil Kalamaros. No jump, Patterson took second. But he Gilmore, Dan Shannon, Mitch Van 
three complete games by the Irish staff Eric Scheuer­mann has details on all the excitement below. 
jim Hoff took second place in the track meet last Saturday here one, however, was able to equal exploded in the triple jump with a Eyken and anchorman Greg Bell. at Notre Dame. Chuck Ehrman has the details on thegood showing javelin champ Steve Wayward of 45 foot-I I and three-quarter inch In the 4x400-meter relay, Van ofthe Irish track team at right. Aquina.~. He turned in the days best blast that vaulted him into the top Eyken, Van Pearcy, Shannon and jeff throw at 172 feet and 7 inches. position. Freshman joel Autry ( 43­
see TRACK, page B
'. 

The Irish did not fare too well in ll ), Gary Lekander ( 4 3-4 ), and 





