Michiganders -page 5 

VOL XVIII, NO. 72 the indqx:mknt slluknt ncw~papcr sn,·ing notre Janw and ~aint mary'-. MONDAY,JANUARY 23, 1984 

Popejohn Paul II greets Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, tional council which was created by tbe Pope to ex­C.S.C., University of Notre Dame president, during a plore new ways of dialogue between "the saving recent (Jan. 16) meeting ofthe Pontifical Councilfor message of the Gospel" and the variety of human Culture in the Vatican. Father Hesburgh !s the cultures. 

Attorney General Smith resigns 
Associated Press tluenced Smith's decision. The Cabinet post was his as long as he 
source noted Smith was active be­wanted it, the sources said. 
WASHINGTON William hind the scenes in every Reagan Reagan, returning to the White french Smith, the multimillionaire campaign and wanted to do so again House from his Maryland mountain­corporate lawyer who directed but felt it would be inappropriate if top retreat in time to watch the sweeping changes in the Depart­he remained as attorney general. Super Bowl on television, dodged ment ofJustice and served as a close The 66-year-old Smith, who reporters' questions about Smith personal adviser to President reversed civil rights, antitrust and and any successor. The sources said Reagan, has resigned as attorney criminal enforcement policies that they expected Reagan to formally general, administration sources said stood through previous administra­announce the resignation today. yesterday. tions, kept his plans secret almost to 
The sources, who sought the last minute. Meese was out of town yesterday anonymity, said it appeared that a The sources said he told Reagan in and could not be reached (or com­leading candidate to succeed Smith a one-on-one meeting in the Oval ment. 
is pre-sidential counselor Edwin Office Wednesday. But even by yes­Meese III. terday, Smith had not advised his as­One sign of Smith's influence on 
They said Smith was not sistants at the department of his Reagan came in the appointment of pressured to leave but had simply plans. And the reports ofhis resigna­Sandra Day O'Connor as the first decided that after three years in tion caught even some of Smith's woman to the Supreme Court. She office it was time to go and that ~e closest friends by surprise. was Smith's choice, and sources said had accomplished his major goals. During the Oval Office meeting, then he prevailed over the Presi­
One source said Reagan's ex­Reagan told Smith, Reagan's per­dent's closest White House aides pected re-election campaign in-sonallawyer for many years, that the whose first choice was a man. 

Student interning with legislature 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY When asked ifthere is any truth to the legislators follow Notre Dame StaffReporter the old expression that there are football. two things one should never watch "This experience compliments 
Junior Michael Jones said he being made: sausage and legislation, my education. I applied for the job "came to Notre Dame to learn the Jones laughed. "Most bills this ses­last year, but didn't get it. This year I theories." He has taken a semester's sion concern such issues as educa­was one of nine students selected leave of absence "to experience the tion, state taxes, toxic waste, and the from 60 student applicants. The facts." troubled liscense branch." other students here are from Indiana 
Since the third of january, Jone~ Work at the state capital is not University and Ball State. These two 
has been working as a legislative in­without its lighter moments. Jones schools are very active in coordinat­
tern for the Indiana House of said, "A representative from Gary, ing it. They have a class that parallels 
Representatives' Demouatic Indiana proposed that Michael jack­the session and the students receive 
Caucus. His new job revoles around son, who is from that town, be put college credit," Jones said. 
the powerful House Ways and on state liscense plates." Some capi­Notre Dame has not officially said 
Means Committee. tal watchers even adopted a new whether Jones will receive any 
"I attend the committee meetings, state theme: "Beat it to Indiana." credit, but Jones believes he will. 
take notes, get copies of bills, and When some of the legislators "Everyone I have talked to has been 
write summaries which are dis­learnedJones was from Notre Dame, very supportive, but the administra­
tributed to the legislators," Jones "they began circulating rumors that tion wants to wait to see how I do." 
said. Also, he has helped prepare Father Hesburgh had resigned and With law school or a job related to 
possible Democratic versions for the board oftrustees were out trying politics as real possibilities, Jones 
legislative reapportionment, an ex­to find a high school principal to 
see INTERN page 5
tremely "hot" topic. replace him." Jones quickly learned 

Short enrolltnent·lines please new registrar 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE handful ofstudents were waiting for News Editor help. "My goal was for students to go through enrollment in five 
They called it enrollment, but a minutes." line by any other name couldn't be The only hang-up was a slight wait much shorter. to register for lnfonet, a new long­
And newly appointed Registrar distance phone service contracted Dan Winicur couldn't be much hap­by the University in the wake of Bell pier. Telephone's divestiture. The Infonet 
Registration ...er ...enrollment line was especially busy at Stepan -once a daylong exercise in paper­Center where freshmen enrolled. pushing -became for most stu­In general, however, Winicur said dents last week a five-minute visit to freshmen enrollment went just the ACC. about as smoothly as upperclassmen 
The stack of computer cards that enrollment. The only difference was once had been handed out at that Freshman Year of Studks did registration was replaced by a not mail class schedules during generic form requiring student I.D. break. and name. Class schedules for up­As in past years, the longest lines perclassmen were mailed with came within the first 15 minutes that grades during Christmas break, and the ACC doors were open. "I have to laundry cards for male students say I was a little worried," Winicur were distribute\;! at Saint Michael's said. Laundry. Within a half-hour, however, lines 
"It went great," Winicur said 
see ENROLLMENT page 3
Friday in his office, where only a 

Stepan ice rink adds athletic opportunities 
By REBECCA HETLAND strength two-by-fours for the StaffReporter frame and some polyethylene over the courts," said Physical During Christmas break, two Plant Director Don Dedrick. of the Stepan Center basketball "Maintenance is handled by the courts became surfaces for an­stadium grounds crew which other winter sport: hockey. sweeps and sprays the rink night­
The Stepan ice rink is the ly." brainchild of Rob Bertino, the Since th~ grounds crew would student senator from District 1. be working at that time anyway, He included the idea in his additional cost is minimal to the proposal to install lights on the University. Stepan courts, because the ice Bertino is pleased with the rink makes year-round use of the results as well as student lights worthwhile. response. "Every time I go by, I 
Bertino submitted the see people skating or playing proposal in September of I 982 hockey," he said. "I hope as the because he felt there were not second semester gets going, enough places available at night more people will hear about it to use for recreation. Since the in­and make use ofit." stallation, the lights have proved Bertino said availability of a a great boon for late-night ath­night rink will enable students to letes. plan skating parties. "We've al­
"All we needed (to create the 
see ICE page 5
rink) were a few industrial-


The Observer Monday,January 23, 1984-page 2 
In Brief ·-·. The world on ice 
Six East Gennans who lkd into the u.s. Embassy in Ea~t Berlin and asked for political asylum were escorted through the Berlin Wall to freedom in the West last night. Aspokeswoman at the l ·.s. embassy said the six, who entered the embassy Friday, left with their EaM <iermany lawyer who had been involved in negotiations for their pas~age to Westlkrlin. West Cinman border guards said the t1vt· men and one woman crossed through the Berlin Wall in three <·ars at') p.m. It wa~ not known wherl· thl· East Germans were taken. The rdugl·es wne identified as R<·ne Faccin, I'); Bernd Ape!, 4.3; ,Jocrg Ikikal, 2:1; and Bernd Macke, 2H all ofEast Berlin. and husband and wife Petra and Daniel Klingenberg of Potsdam. -AP 
Townspeople in thl' lllOUIHainous resort of Whitd1sh. Mt.. gricVl'd yesterday lilr nine pcopk killed when a school bus carrying till' high school wrestling team crashed into a fuel tanker in a snowstorm...A little bit of all of us died yesterday," Mayor James Putnam of Whitdish said of the tkry crash Saturday night that also injurl·d I') people. "The people of Whitefish arc in shock. I'm sure that ,Jan. 21 will remain in the minds of Whitefish people: for many, many years a~ onl· of thl· most tragic things that ever happened to us." Thl· bus. carrying about :10 wrestlers. coaches. cheerleaders and othl'f~ from Whitefish lligh School. was returning from a losing t match at Browning. ')·I mill's to the northwest. It collided with the empty fuel tanker truck on l '.S. 2 and hurst into tlames. It was the worst traffic alTident in Montana history, said AI (ioke, state high­way tratlk direuor. -AP 
Lebanese troops and Shiite Moslem militias timght a one-hour battle in Beirut's southern suburbs yesterday and tlrst reports ~aid t(Jur people. induding one soldier. were wounded. The t1ghting was the t1rst major confrontation betwel·nthc army regulars and Shiit<· 1\loslems in th<· soutlll'rn ~uburbs. adjacent to the li.S. Marine base at Bl'irut International Airport. in almo~t a month. Each side blamed thc otlll'r filr starting yesterday's battk. State-run Beirut Radio said li>flllations of l :.s. F-1·1 Tomcat jets from l '.S. carriers off the coast ma<k rt'l'onn;tissan<T llights ovl·r tht· capital and the central mountain~. It said tilllr Israeli jets also crossed the skies of southern Lebanon. hut no bombing was reported. Druse leader Waliti,Jumblatt vownl in an interview published }'l'sterday his men woultlcontinul· t1ghting unkss th<· <:abinet of Prime Minister Amin (iemayd is r<·placcd. Speaking to the Jordanian paper al-Rai, he said, 
"We will not stop lighting this time unless anti until the Ciemayel govcnment rl·signs. Its staying in power would mean the complete tlestruction of Lebanon." He said later he was referring only to <lemayd's Cabin<·t and not to the president himself. -AP 
Scores of demonstrators were killed when 
troops anti politT qudlnl riots in the past few days in the major towns ofnorthern Morocco, diplomatic sources reported yesterday. Rumors of increases in food prices and s<:hool examination fees ap­parl·ntly causl·tl th~· riots. It was officially dl·nied yesterday that any increase was planned in school fees. Diplomats, insisting on anonymity, said thl')' hdicved about a.dozen civilians were killed in Tetouan. They said they did not have even "an approximate es­timatt·" of the overall casualty toll. Spanish media said upwards of 200 people Wl're killed at Tetouan, Alhoucemas. Nador, Tangier and other towns in the region. The Moroccan government imposed a total nl·ws blackout on the violence, refusing any official statement. A communique from the Ministry of Education yesterday "ctt<·gorkally denied" rumors that high school students preparing for t1nal exams would have to pay fees ranging from 57 to $14. It said the fees would be unchanged at eight to 12 cents. -AP 
·Of lnter·est -· 
Several hundred students have stilt not en­
rolled. th<· Registrar's ollk<· reports. Three more days of grace will he granted hdilre those students who fail to enroll arc dropped from class lists on Thursday. -The ()fJsert•er 

·VVeather ­
A 70 percent chanceoflight snow today. High in the low jOs. An HO percent chance tonight of mixed snow and freezing rain. Low around jO. Cloudy and cool tomorrow with a chance of rain or freezing rain. lligh in the low to mid .30s. -AP 
1-The_Obs.eryer_ 
Today's issue of The Observer was produced by: 
Composition Editor ................... Troy Illig CfunpositionA.ssistant ....... <:hc.:ryl Pilon layout Staph.. . .............. Liz Carroll 1)'P('St•llers..... ....... Krvin. Nick Nt•u•s Editor ........... Tom Mowk CopJ' Editor ........................ Marc Ramirrz 
.\ports Copy Editor.. . ....... h1 Konrady Vit•ufJoinllt~)'o/11..... . .... Tom Sapp F(•atures COPl' l:'tlitor.. .. .. ~1ary Ht:'aly 
'AI 1:30 tbi.~ morning. lu•as au/horiz£•d to t11Uinunn• that U'£' u•ere do11e absurd­
/)' earl)'. That is all... 
TheObMrVer(U JO)is published Monday through Frtday and on home football Saturdays. except dunng exam and vacat1on penods The ObMrver 1s published by the students of Notre Dame and Sa1nt Mary's College Subscnpttons may be purchased for $25 per year ($15 per semester) by writing The ObMrver. P 0 Box 0. Notre Dame. lnd1ana 46556 
The ObMrVer 1s a member of The A..octllted p,.... All reproduction nghts are reserved 
APPhoto 
South Bend apparent~v is not the only place that MotherNature has given the cold shoulder. A tourist focuses on the Imperial Palace in Tokyo Saturdav, where the monl­ing's temperature of27 degrees Fahrenheit was the coldest of1984 sofar. In Louisville, a towboat barges through a sheet ofthin ice on the Ohio Riz1er. Temperatures fell below the zero mark across Kentuckv this weekend and broke records in som~ areas. In Boston, firefighters Saturday morning were still pouring water on the flaming remains ofa collapsed pier i11 the Charles River. Despite the cold, the fire had been raging for more than a day already. 
Consultants to Multinational firms seek Qualified individuals with language and area expenise on foreign marl<.ets Our clients prefer foreign nationals wittl advanced degrees from American Umver. s~.es. Vrsa restrictions miQht not apply to some of the available projects Pin-time and lull-lime assignments available. Fee Patd. 
Send resume or reQuest lor applicat1on form to: 
Swenson, Crawford a. Paine 
P 0 Box A3629 I\ . I 
Ch1cago. IllinOis 6!Xi90 
'·...__ ,,..· 


~ 
The Observer 
• • .Enroiiinent 

continuedfrom page I 
began to thin, and by the afternoon, there was little if any wait to enroll. Because class schedules arrived in the mail, there was little incentive for students with corn:ct schedules to drag themselves out of bed early, Winicur said. That kept a steady flow of students throughout the day in­stead oflong lines in the morning. 
But students with schedule mix­ups did need to enroll early. A yellow copy of the enrollment form was necessary to add or drop a class. 
While students enjoyed a quick day of enrollment, Winicur was worrying how well his new enroll­ment procedures would work. Wini<.'ur. a former chemistry profes­sor, took over the job in July, and "after seeing the headaches" of registration as assistant dean of science, decided to try to streamline the biannual tradition. 
"I saw that a lot of what we were doing (at registration) wasn't really necessary," Winicur said. "We were asking students for information we already had." 
The most important thing needed at the beginning of each semester is a quick way to count heads. "We have to know who's here and who isn't," Winicur said. Solution? In­troduce the enrollment form. a simple and more direct way of counting students than a stack of computer cards. 
Winicur's long-range plans call for restructuring how students add or drop classes with the possible help of the University'~ new Hewlett­Packard computer. Students would know before break if they have been closed out of a class, and schedule 
adjustments  would  possibly  be  
typed  directly  into  an  "on-line"  
computer terminal.  

But for the third week in January 1984, Winicur was satisfied with the way things were. One day after registration there were only a few students in the registrar's office, and when the flu finally caught up with the new registrar, he was able to go home for an afternoon without any problems at all . 

•
•
• 
Get into the spotlight!
•
•
•
•
• 
The Features Dept. of 
•
• 
The Observer is looking
•
• 
for writers interested in 
•
• 
art, theatre or movies . 
•
• 
See the Features Editor 
•
•
• for more info. and see
• 
: your name up in light~ well, in print anyway. 
• l 
•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
: 
• 

• I • 
l
i ID!tt1Knigllts nftltt <liastlt
l I 
''\ II
I 
I 
minutes from campus 
Hair Cut Shampoo I Blow Dry & Condition 
54533 Terrace Lane, ~.:>uth Send(Across from 
Reg. $15·00 
\ Martin's on S.R. 23) I Now $8·50 with coupon 
I I 1 , W B;30-5:30 offer only applies to male patrons 
I 
Th 8:30-8:30
I 
I Fr 8:30-6:00 I s 8:30-2:30
I I ClosedMon 277-1691 272·0312 !...--••••••••••••6.50 Savings •••••-•••••••,..•-' 
1 -­
I 
ND-SMC SENIORS 
SKI TRIP (Feb. 17·19) Boyne Mountain ' For all Interested I t 


t 
t
MANDATORY MEETING 
I
I I
LaFortune Little Theater Sign-up and bring checks I I 
iill\'i?t, 'jJJ 
I 

-$81.50 without rentals 
I

-$98.50 with rentals 
I I 
-t 
The Observer · Thorn Bradley 

An innocent bystander holds a cup ofyou-knou•­what as he poses for the camera at a Campus Vieu• 



esc offers social concerns groups 
ByPATSAIN 
SeniorStaffReporter 

Do you miss the pressure and the crowds at Activities Night at Stepan Center in September? Were you able to find all the groups you were in­terested in? 
The Social Concerns Festival, which starts tomorrow night at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns, of­fers a second chance for students to learn about social concerns groups at Notre Dame. Notre Dame stu­dents are aware of social problems, but many of them do not see how they can relate to these problems, said Lynn Lawrence, coordinator for service and social action at the Cen­ter. 
"Social work allows you to test 

Hair Styling 
531 Michigan Street SouthBend Phone 233-4957 

career choices," Lawrence said. "If 
you choose a logical and analytical career, social work allows you to balance your life out," she said . 
There are two types ofsocial con­cerns groups, said Sharon Murphy, coordinator for peace opportunities at the Center. Volunteer service or­ganizations, like the Neighborhood Study Help Program, work in the South Bend area and help tutor stu­dents. Volunteer groups also help the elderly and the handicapped. 
Other social concerns groups, like Amnesty International, deal with "broad issues of peace and justice," and give information on these issues through seminars and fund-raisers. 
John May, vice president of Notre Dame's Right to Life, said, "At ac­tivities night. we hope to find stu­dents interested in our Pregnancy . Help Center, and our home for single mothers. We need volunteers for fund-raising, remodeling the house, and organizing our counsel­ing and support services." 
Like Right to Life, many campus and local social concerns groups will be giving information on their group. In the Center's classroom. there will be a setup similar to !'all Activity Night. with information on different groups available at the group's table. 
Audio-visual presentations on specific groups will be giwn in the Resource Room. and the cof­feehouse will bl· serving coffee and cookies. 
The following groups will be at the Festival: Student Groups: American Red Cross Amnesty International 
CII..A 

Circle K Council for the Retarded Council for l'un & Learn Neighborhood Study Help Program Nuckar Freeze Campaign Student Advocates and Volunteers for El­derly Sister Marita's Primary Day School Student Tutorial Education Project \li'omen's lnt'l League for Peace and freedom World Hunger Coalition FLOC (;round Zero (..<;Society Pax Christi Right to Life Student Org. ti>r Latin America Local Groups: 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters CROP LaCasa lkAmistad Legal Services Morningside Nursing Home Northern Ind. State llosp. ParkviewJuvenile Center St. francis Shoppe 

Jan. 24 7:15 

ATTENTION SOPHOMORES!!  
$20,000 Scholarships: AValuableScholarship. AValuable Challenge. The two-year NROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year college scholarship that's worth as much as $20,000 in tuition. And it offers you the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. During college, the Navy pays tuition, cost of textbooks, instructional fees, and an allow· once of $100 a month up to 20 months during your last two years of college. Upon Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you are commissioned a Navy of~icer. THE NROTCCOLLEGE PROGRAM. $2,000 EXPENSE MONEYAND ANAVYOFRCERCOMMISSION. The two-year NROTC College Program offers you two years of expense money that's worth up to $2,000 plus the challenge of becoming a Navy Officer with early responsibilities and decision-making authority. During your last two years in college the Navy pays for uniforms, NROTC textbooks and an allow­ance of $100 a month up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy Officer, with important decision-making responsibilities. If you have a C Plus GPA or better, call us now as scholarship opportunities have never been better. Ask for LCDR Norrbom at 239·7274 or 239·6442, or stop by the ROTC building on the Notre Dame campus.  


........ 
........ 
........
........
........
........
........ ........
........ 
........
........
........
........
........ 
........ 
........
........ 
........ 
........
4 ........ 
........
........
AT OUR ADVANCED 
........
TECHNOLOGY CENTER ........ 
........
IN SYOSSET, LONG ISLAND, 
........
........
........
HARRIS/GSSD TOUCHES ........ 
........
........
THE PULSE OF SYSTEMS ........
.........
........ 
........
SUPPORT TECHNOLOGY 
........
........
WORLDWIDE ........ 
........
........
........
........
........
WE'LL BE ON CAMPUS ........
........
........ January 27th 
TO INTERVIEW GRADUATING PROFESSIONALS IN THE FOLLOWING BS/MS/PhD DISCIPLINES 
Electrical Engineering Electrical Technology 
If you are unable to meet with us, we invite graduating professionals in the above disciplines to forward resumes to: 
~mm~
HARRIS Corporation 
::::::::
Government Support Systems Division College Relations Office 6801 Jericho Turnpike Syosset, New York 11791 516-364-0400 
11111111 
A career with HARRIS/GSSD means professional growth within one of the most advanced environments in the industry. On a personal level, HARRIS/GSSD is proud to offer professionals a positive, active, and supportive environment where individual potential is fully realized in a "team" approach. 

IIARRIS 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 

l, 
-------------------~ 
The Observer Monday, January 23, 1984-page 5 

A Sub for Launch 
The USS Augusta, the Los Angeles Class nuclear­poweredfast attack submarine, slides into the Thames River in Groton, Conn., Saturday at launching ceremonies. Named for Maine's capital city, the Augusta is the 18th such submarine to be launched by Electric Boat Division General Dynamics Corp. 
Gandhi critical of U.S. policies 
Associated Press India recently moved to diversity, ment leaders are frustrated "that buying arms from Britain, France we're trying to keep our country 
NEW DELHI, India -Prime Min­and Weit Germany. democratic, but what do you get for ister Indira Gandhi says America cul­"I don't want to be sounding as if! it in terms of better relations with tivates dictatorships around the am anti-U.S., because I am not at all," the Western democracies?" world while displaying indifference said the 66-ycar-old leader of some and a double standard toward India. 700 million Indians. Mrs. Gandhi. who also heads the 
"They don't seem to be bothered "But you sec, the administration I00-country group of non-aligned about India," Mrs. Gandhi told the talks of democracy but actually nations. said good relations with Associated Press during a weekend whom docs it help? The majority arc President Reagan and Britain's interview. not democratic. They help dictator­Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher 
Mrs. Gandhi. who has pursued ships ofone kind or another." are "personal. From the point of 
traditionally close Indian relations view of policy, their views are with the Soviet llr.ion, also denied Asked if by dictatorships she entirely opposed to ours." India is dependent on arms from the meant countries such as Pakistan, Soviet Union, its major foreign sup­the Philippines and South Kon:a. Mrs. Gandhi restated her objec­
plier. which got ll.S. aid. Mrs. Gandhi said tions to the l'.S. shipment ofarms to 
"When we need it and we get it on yes: "and in Africa also, you know, neighboring Pakistan. She said in attractive terms. we take it, but it's Latin America and so on." some areas. Pakistan is "about a not binding us in any way," she said. She said she and other govern-decade ahead" ofindia in weaponry. 
• 



Michiganders buying Indiana beer 
SOUTH BEND. Ind. -Michigan Legislature. The law limits the licensing and enforcement division 
to Indiana communities that border state and "yes" to Indiana by beverages purchased in Indiana by the Michigan state line. purchasing alcoholic beverage Michigan residents. 
residents arc saying "no" to their amount and types of alcoholic The agents' job is to monitor liq­

supplies at numerous retail outlets "Oh, they're (Michigan cus­uor, beer and wine purchases by along the border of the two states. tomers) angry," said Connie Wil­Michigan residents that exceed state Michigan authorities began crack­liams, night manager at a liquor store imposed limits. ing down on smuggling of located only 2 miles south of the Michigan law prohibits residents "imported" alchoholic beverages a Niles, Mich., border. 
from purchasing more than two gal­few weeks ago, enforcing a law lons ofwine and one case ofbeer per passed in 1980 by Michigan's 
"A couple of our Michigan cus­trip to an Indiana outlet. Hard li­tomers arc hoping to fight the quors shouldn't be purchased at all. purchasing limitations on constitu­explained Roger Rosendale. head of tional grounds. One man said he the commission's licensing and en­couldn't wait until they caught him," forcement division.
• .Intern

• 
she said. "Violators can be fined up to Sl 00 
The 'they' arc two agents dis­and have their liquor and vehicle im­continuedfrom page 1 patched in December by the Michi­pounded by the state, depending on sees his time as very well spent. gan Liquor Control Commission's the size ofpurchase," he said. 
Despite the long hours and suit and tie formalities of the chamber, "I've really enjoyed it," he said. 
Accepting the job meant certain 
• • .Ice 
sacrifices. "I make S12S a week, but that does not cover my expenses. I 

all depend~ on the response this year
continuedfrom page 1
went to summer ~chool to enable 

-if it works it will become a tradi­
me to still graduate on time," he ready got a plan with the Student tion every winter. I think it's great

added. Yet, it has been well worth it. 

Union for a Skate Night sometime in and I'm glad the University is allow­Michael Jones looks forward to February, and ifthat goes over well it ing us to create new options for once again walking the North Quad leaves endless possibilities," he said. using our free time. I just hope the next fall, but for now he is content Besides parties being planned for rink will be used a lot." 
with hustling down the busy cor­the future, Bertino expressed hopes The Stepan Center rink is openridors of political power in the In­for expanding the rink next year. "It and lighted all night long.

diana House. 
The Oar House Cold Beer& 

Liquor Carry Out Till3 am 
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
Live DJ and Dancing 
10-3 AM 
"TWO BARS" 


COUNSELINE A serv1ce to the NO community 239-7793 HOURS: 4-10pm Mon-Thurs. Counsel!r-P •s a ''l?e. confidential telephone serv1ce that offers professiOnally taped matenals that cover a w1de vanP.t_~.?.'..~tudent concerns  
TAPE NO TITLE 1 Fnendshtp Bu1ldmg 7 Dealing wtth Conslrucltve Cnt:c1sm 8 Dea11ng w•th Anger 9 Understandmg Jealousy :Jnd How to Deal W1ll1 Jt 10 How to Say NO 16 Becommg Open 10 ~hers t8 Dat1ng Skrlls 30 Anx1ely and Possible Ways to Cope Wllh If 32 How to Deal wtlh Lonlme~~ 33 How lo Handle Fears 15 Bu1ldmg sell-Esteem & Conltdence 37 Relaxmg Exerctses J8 Coptng wtth Stress 39 Female Self Role Changes and Stress 411 learnmg to Accept Yourself 61 WhaiiS Therapy & How IO Use II 83 How to Cope ..VItr. a Broken Relal1onsh1p 85 Understandmg Gr1el 90 Helpmg a Fr1end 160 Early s1gns ol an Alcohol Problem 161 Responsible Dec1S10ns About Dnnk1ng 1102 Seii.Asserllveness 431 What IS DepreSSIOn 432 How to Deal With DepreSSIOn 433 Oepress10n as a L1le Style 478 Becommg lndependePI hom Parents 479 Dealing w1th AlcohOliC Parents 491 SuiCidal CrisiS 492 Recogn1LirlQ Su1C1dal Potential mOthers 493 Helping Someone m a SuiCidal CriSIS·  
CounseUne is a completely anonymous senr.ce offered by the Counseling & Psychological Services Cenler. UNO For Further Info or Assistance Call C&PSC 239-7337 between 9-5 --CLIP AND SAVE-­ 


Monday ,January 23, 1984 -page 6 

Vieweoint 
Holy Cross Associates: a valuable experience 
t>urmg Ill) S(:nior )Tar at Sam! ~laf)·'s, watching my friend~ choo~l· thl'ir post­g(aduat ion path~ fa.,dnatnlml·. :-.oml· WTnt to m~:di('al ~.d10ol otht'r~ joinl·d thl· Big Eight and otlll'r!'> imprl'S!'><:d me with thl'ir patit nee. waiting f(,r the "pcrh:l't joh." 
Along with l.l. other colkgt· S<:nior~•. Ichosc 
M. J. Murray 
Guest column 

llol) <.ro!'>!'> A!->!->odatl'' \'it· !'ommillt'd our­~dn·' to support and explort· with ead1 othn t·ommunit) lili.·,tyk. ahandonmt·nt of material luxuf) and S<'rvit'l' to thoS<· in ntTd. Already having t·xp<:rienccd the program. I tend tow ant to lbt what Iactually gainnl from it in,tcad of m1· original dn·am,, goal!> and l'X­
pt'l'talion,. 
<.hoo~ing the th~ol'i<tte., program b a hig decbion. Thnt· i' no way of knowing l'Xal'lly what 1011 .trt· gelling into. IICA b ddlnitdy a ri~k. hut "o i~ any otht-r po~t-graduatt· d10ice. b .1111 .ttTountant guarantn·d that puhlil' accounting wtll he risk-frn·' 
Not en:ryone is called to he an Associate, hut I hdil've it would he a ht·ndkial ex­perience fi1r anyone. I have nevl·r rt'gretted my choil'l'. Two yt'ars ago I wa.~ afraid that Stl·pping out of acatkmia for a year would keep nH: from returning to get the law degrct: l'vt· alway!'> wanted. I tend to ru!->h through life, tf)·ing to accomplish eVl'f)'thing now. 
My experience as an Associatt' helped ml· karn the value of living in the prt:sent -to live my pre,ent opportunities and allow them to l'\'Oive into future one!'>. To have c:nough faith to quit planning my futurt: so that all hast·s are co\Trt·d. To let go ofconcrete plans so I could 'tep hack and sn· ifthq; were right li1r me. Much of the credit fi1r these realiza­tion,, !'>oml· of which were painful. must go to the many senior citizen' I shared my p:ar with. 
l~"t_luly I left Colorado Spring~. my fou1-As­sociate housematcs and new friends to hlTome a full-time Notre Dame employee. I work part-lime a.~ adminbtrator at the Senior Bar and part time on the staffofthe lloly Cross 
Associatl'S. 

Initially only the other staff members joked 
that I could work at Mori·au Seminar)' (where 
lit :A i~ based) hy day and rl-cruit at Senior Bar by night. I have yet to take full advantage ofmy position at Senior Bar (I haven't shown the HCA slide show there), hut I have met quite a few seniors interested in HCA. This contact has allowed me to learn the major misconcep­tions people have about the Associates. 
Many think the program is the first step 
toward priesthood or sisterhood. While some 
Associates have chosen this route, it hy no 
means is the aim of the program. Through my 
experience a.~ an Associate I became much 
more aware and responsible ti1r my role in the 
church. 

Participating in the local Hispanic parish wa.~ a wonderful support system. It helped me meet people living out their Christian hdietS at their workplace. with their families and in their community. These people deeply in­spired me and ht:lped me realize that I could 
combine a degree in business with my heart's desires. 
The HCA experience gave me strength to follow my heart -to break away from the:· ex­pectations of others and, with God's ht:lp, to decide what was hest for me. 
Another fallacy ahout HCA is that it will change one's t·ntire life. A person's life changes drastically when the diploma is in 
hand. How one develops from then on is not 
only a personal choice, hut an individual 
responsibility. 
I wanted life to consist ofmore than eight to 
five and a station wagon. I wanted to discover 
parts ofmysclfyct untapped-to think with a 
far more open mind, ft'el more sincerely, and 
love with more faith. 
I wanted to continue to put in perspective my need for material possessions, and ht' sur­rounded hy others who wanted to live life, not purchase it. For me the Associates was the right place to continue developing these parts 
ofmyself. 
! cannot imagine what my life would he like witnout my Associate experience. Many new aspects of my life opened up. My desire to at­tend law school is still thl·re, hut the urgency is gone. Knowing that law school will he thl'rl' in years to come has given me strcngth to forge on and test myself in other areas, ratlll'r than making rash judgments for short-tnm security. 
Ifyou U'ou/d like to learn mor!' about th!' Ho~y Cross Associates, see Mary• Ann Roemer at the Centerfor Social Concerns soon. This year's application deadline is Feb. 3. 
P. 0. BoxQ  
Wednesday fast OC'ilr Sotr!' Dam!' students, ( >vn tht· <:hristma~ holidays ~l·vaal World !Iunger Coalition mnnht·~ had thl· pkasurt· of 'l'rHiing duTk~ to tkvdopmull program~ to hdp till' poor throughout tht· world. Wt· ~t·nt aid to group~ in India. Banglatksh, Pt·ru and to otht-r~ here in the South lkml comnwnity. With joy, Wt' also recdvt·d Christmas grt'l'ling~ and progress n·ports from st·vt·ral of the agenl'il'S Wl' support. \\'e would likl' 10 pa~~ on thdr thanks. Tht· money ~t·nt hy the World llungn Coalition wa' tlw fruit of your 'acriiilT last st·mester ;uul the continunl t·ooperation of the ad­ministration. Thank you for your gt'nerous participation in the htsl. The goals of thl· World Hunga Coalition and of the \\'l·dnl·S<lay-lunch fast an: thrn·fi1ld: nlucation. dirlTl aid ami pnsonal  and spiritual growth. Our hope' is that the fast per meal from S. 7'i to S I, we will still need a served all ofthese purposes for you la.~t semes­'iO percent increase in participation to reach ter and we invite you to an even fuller par­this lofty goal. ti<:ipation this spring. Therefore, we ~k each of you not only to If you would like to know more ahout the continue to participate hut to convince a prohlems of World Hunger, or ahout the or­friend to join (only I0 percent of all under­ganizations which are receiving funds from us, graduates participated last semester.) Sign­please indicate this when you sign-up for the ups for this spring will he Wednesday and fast. Thursday during lunch and dinner at the Better yc:t. come to our next general dining halls. meeting. (Watch Th!' Obsen•er for time and Finally, wc.: invite you to use the fast this place.) Your input would he appn•ciated. We st·mester as a tool fi>r your own personal and plan to start a prayer and study group during spiritual growth. It is an invitation to sharing Wednl·sday lunch hours for fasters who are and solidarity with the poor. We arc offering intl·restl·d. Wt: an· also prl·paring sevnal you the opportunity to giVl' from your sub­nl·ws releases on thl· groups we support. stance, not merely your excess and to receivc Tht: agt:ndes that Wl' support will he the peace ofone who hungt:rs for justice. reexaminnl this semester and otht:r projects We would like to share with you a few wil! hl· con~idered. We have set a monetaf)' thoughts that james Munddl, the president of goal of S 12.000 in aid this semester. Your help a development group called the Choi-Chol is nlTdnl hlTt: as wdl. Foundation, sent to us in his Christma.~ wish: Although this past semester thl· administra­"No man can eat dessert before evef)' man tion raisl·d the amount of money it gives us can eat hrt'ad. It is urgent that we learn to  work with the poor in developing countries: to live with them; to forget about charity and hand-outs -and bullets. 'Without sharing there is no justice. Without justice there can he no peace.' Let us he intranquil. Let us reflect. Let us resolve. Let us seek justice. Peace will follow.'' Thank you again for your participation last semester. Let's try to makt: this semester's fast an even greater success. The World Hunger Coalitirm Academic slums DearEditor: Concerning my article of Nov. 29, "There's no business like bowl business," I ht:rehy publicly retract the unwarranted charac­terization of Oklahoma and Nehraska as "academic slums.'' My apologies to all of­fended parties. james]. CarberiJ·  

Campus comments: Did your grades accurately reflect your performance? 
Yes. I hdit·n· I rl'l'l'iVl'll the grade~ 1 Yl·s. the dasse~ I workl·d hard in I In a few classes my grades exceeded No, I got an Fin a class I never took. Yes, I worked hard and learned how desl-rvnl. did wdl in. l'Xl'l'pt my sociology my understanding and competence. to design structural supports for tl·achn doggnl me. skyscrapers. 
Michael Poirier Bridget McCarson Chris Thompson SharonHouk Bill Annstrong Chemkal Engineering Accounting Math/Computing Liberal Studies Electrical Engineering Classof'84 Classof'86 Classof'87 Classof'85 Classof'86 

The Observer~  Editorial Board  Depat1mentManagers  
Editor-in-Chief.  ..... David Dziedzic  
1'. ().flo.\'{!. .\otn· nt/1111',1.\ ·16'i'i6  (.! I'JJ .!3'.1-'ijOJ  Mm1aging Editor....................... Margaret Fosmoe  Business Jfanag!'r  ......<:hristopher Owen  
Jhe Ohsi'I'I'C'I' i' till' inlkpnlllt-nt Ill'\\ 'Pa(Kr puh(i,hnl In the 'tudt·nt, of the I ni­ t'xecutive Editor.................................Paul McGinn  Controller  ......... Alex Szilva.'  
l'l·rsity of l';otre Danw du l.at· and ~aint \lary·, <.ollt'gl'. It docs not m·cessarill· rdkn  Neu•s Editor.................................Boh Vonderheide  .4dr•ertisinp, .llanap,er.. .  .... Jeanie Poole  
the polil'it'' of the admini,tration of eitht·r in,titution. The lll'Ws i' reported as ac­ Neu•s Editor....................................Mark Worscheh  Circulation Manap,a.... .  .. .............\lark Miollo  
curatl'll and a' ohjcnin·ll asp< "sihlt·. l n!'>ignnlnlitori.tls rq1fest'IH the opinon of a  Saint Mary•'s Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski  .\:vstems ,\ttmager....  ....... .Kevin Williams  
majoril\· of till' Editorial Board. Comnwntaries.ll-lll'f,. amlthe ln,idt· Column prt·s<·nt  Sports Editor ................................. Mic;:had Sullivan  
tht· vit'\" of Iheir author' Column space i!'> a\·ailahk to all ml·mhl'fs ofthe nummuiit\.  VieU'point Editor ................................Keith Picher  
<IIlli tht· free l'Xpression of varyingopinitm' on Llmpu,, through kllers. is encouraged.  Features Editor............................... Sarah Hamilton  
Photo Editor..........................................Scott Bower  


Showcase 
Monday,January 23, 1984-page 7 
The real top 10 o£1983 
by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 

E
very year, in the latter days ofDecember and leading into the ear­ly days of the next year's january, all the movie critics sit down and start figuring out which ofthe last year's movies should be in their "Top Ten of the Year." It may all be very confusing to you, but to them it's a lot offun, and so this year, they did it again. They sat around and went back through their files and cast away such films as "Flashdance," "Yor: Hunter from the Future," and "Strange Brew." Then they went eeny-miny-mo through the remaining movies and picked their Top Ten. 
In their Top Ten they included such achievements as "Silkwood," "Terms of Endearment," "War Games," and "The Right Stuff." I'll have to admit that those are pretty good movies. I mean, I totally loved Meryl Streep's Oklahoma accent; and the general's "After care­ful thought and consideration. I've come to the conclusion that your . defense plan sucks" in "War Games" was one of my favorite lines of the year. 
But the critics were wrong. Oh sure, they think they picked the Top Ten, hut then, critics always think their opinion is sacred.Here is the real Top Ten of 1983, movies that didn't even get a nod from the critics, movies that weren't shown in most public theatres because they were too avant-garde for people to understand. 
Wilkwood. The story ofjamaal Wilkwood, a Notre Dame student who mysteriously falls over dead one day in his dormitory room af­ter investigating his theory that Observer andDome photos have been retouched in order to make Irish guard Dan Duff appear six feet tall. The role is played brilliantly by Robert Blake, and the musical score by Adam and the Ants makes Wilkwood one ofthe year's best. 
Dirty Harry Meets the Tremendous Build-Up ofMold and Bac­teria. Clint Eastwood is at it again, portraying his character of Harry Callahan and trying to justify vigilante justice as he performs the in­spection ofNotre Dame food sales operations. Breaking down doors at will. Dirty Harry uses his .44 Magnum to blow away filthy toasters and microwave ovens. When a mouse seems to contemplate attack in one memorable scene, Harry aims and sneers, "Go on, punk. Make my breakfast." 
-The Big Big Chill. Barry Manilow and Susan Sarandon head a bril­liant cast in this story ofeight Notre Dame juniors who return from Spring Break only to discover that they have been lotteried off campus. As off-campus housing is either nonexistent or in Elkhart, the eight are forced to face the South Bend winter elements. Bob Hope is brilliant as the comedian whose USO show arrives just mo­ments too late as they freeze to death in the snow. 
Tootsie and Yentl and Victor/Victoria. Dustin Hoffman, Barbra Streisand, and julie Andrews recreate their brilliant roles in a simple story about a man posing as a woman who falls in love with awoman posing as a man. In the public's eye they are a man and woman in love, but only the man and woman know that they are really a woman and a man. The fun of the plot is complicated when the man posing as a woman becomes a lover to the woman posing as a man posing as a woman and the woman posing as a man gets upset. However. the woman posing as a man posing as a woman doesn't know that the man who hangs around with the man she loves is real­ly a woman posing as a man, and so the woman posing as a man poses 
as a woman in order to gain entry to where the woman posing as a man posing as a woman is posing as a man and kills her. The movie is enhanced greatly by the music ofCulture Club. 
Lettuce Serue You 3-D. Just when you thought it was safe to go back into the dining hall. director Dino DeLaurentis brings this mo­tion picture epic to the screen. Academy Awards galore should go to Phil Dupp. who produced the spectacularspecial effects in this film. It really hits the fan this time, seeming to fly out at you in the audience in a potpourri ofveal, meatcake and gravy. Dee Wallace is brilliant as a dining hall worker who takes matters into her own gloves and saves the day. 
On a Roll. This educational documentary recounts the five days from December 4 to Decembu 8 when a Midwestern university held an event known as "Charmin Week" when it discovered that its students were fans ofthe toilet paper. Mr. Whipple made a cameo ap­pearance and gave away a year's supplies ofCharmin to lucky win­ners. Contests were also held in which groups offour students apiece ran from one end ofa large lawn to the other holdinga roll of Charmin. One end ofthe roll was tacked to a pole, and the object was to avoid tearing the paper. The movie reveals a growing concern among American college students for intellectual social activity. · YourMoney or Your Life. Martin Sheen is brilliant in this story ofa Notre Dame ~tudent who refuses to pay a late fee bill of $1.25 from the Memorial Library. His dormroom water and heat are mysterious­ly turned off, and at registration he is informed that all ofhis classes arc closed. At the dining hall he is constantly served veal no matter what the entree is that night. Angie Dickinson plays the counselor who pays S 1.24 ofthe library bilL 
How To Succeed in Life Without Real(v Trying This film tells the 
story of three stockholders ofthe Notre Dame bookstore and their 
personal troubles as they sit back and collect dividends from early 
semester book sales. William Hurt, Sissy Spacek, and Terry Bradshaw 
are brilliant in the roles. The drama is intense as they face the 
everyday crisis ofwithdrawing thousands ofdollars from their bank 
accounts. Carrie Fisher is also brilliant in the minor role ofa Notre 
Dame student who loses her entire savings to the high boo~M?Sfu, 
prices. 
Honorable Mentions:Quiet RiotDines Out at theEmporium, and Father Dearest. 

The latest arrivals in contemporary art 
At the Snite 

Special to The Observer 
Y
esterday Friends of the Snite received the most recent addi­tion to the museum. "Living With Art Two," the collection of Walter and Dawn Clark Netsch. Focusing on major movements in contemporary American art over the past 25 years, this exhibition includes paintings, drawings, sculptures, furniture and graphics. The internationally known arhitect, Walter Netsch has gathered works ofsuch artists as Albers, Dine, Hofmann, Noland, Youngerman. Rickey and Oldenburg. 
The exhibit, sponsored by the Walter R Beardsley Endowment for Twentieth Century Art is located in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries and will remain there until March 24. Gallery Hours are weekdays from l 0 
a.m. until 4:45 p.m. and on weekends from 1 to 5 p.m. Evening hours are Thursdays from 7 to 9. 

At the Hammes and Moreau Galleries 
T
Special to The Observer our inner natures in a sensitive balance ofwhat is contained within wo exhibitions currently oc­and without." She examines a mysti­cupy the Moreau Gallery Three cal, metaphorical center ofuniversal at Saint Mary's College. They will be being in intimate fragments ofpaper. on display until February l 7. writing and image. Delicate 
"The Indiana Printmakers Exhibi­cyanotype and gum bichroinate tion" in the Moreau Gallery will photographic images are collaged feature the works of 19 artists who against paper formed with an ex­work and teach printmaking in the pressive painterly gesture from state. Each artist has contributed natural fibers such as kozo abbaca two to three pieces that he or she and cotton. has completed within the last three A graduate ofthe University of Il­years. linois, Sward has served as a member 
of the art faculty at Columbia Col­
'Marilyn Sward: Paper Scrolls, An lege, Illinois-Chicago Circle and her Incorporation ofPhotographic and alma mater. She also has lectured as a Handmade Paper Processes" will be guest artist at Northwestern Univer­featured in the Hammes and Little sity and the Art Institute of Chicago. Theatre Galleries. Sward recently completed the 
Founder of the "Paper Press" in book, "The New Photography," with Chicago, Sward has exhibited na­Catherine Reeve. tionally since 1977 and currently is Moreau Gallery Three is open affiliated with Van Straaten Gallery from 9:30a.m. to noon and l p.m. to in Chicago. 3 p.m. Monday through Friday and 
Sward's work "communicates from I p.m. to 3 p.m. on Sunday. meaning, riddles and mystereies of There is no admission charge. 

The Observer/Tom Bradley 





Sports Briefs 
Aerobics classes will begin wednesday, Jan. 
2S. for both students and facul!y. A faster-paced session will be of­
fered from 4-4:40 p.m. and a slower-paced session from 5:15-5:55 
p.m. Cost for students is S3 for 13 sessions and S5 for 27 sessions whik faculty prices are S 12 and S22 for 13 and 27 session~, respectively. Fees should be brought 10 the first session at the ACC (Jym 4, above Gate 3. Lockers are available, and both men and women are welcome. -The Obsen1er 
BeginninJZ and Advanced Cross Country Ski 
clinks art:' hdng otferL-d hy the Non-Varsity Athletics Office. The d;Lo;..<; t(Jr heginners will he taught hy Tim Weaver, ski instructor for the< >utpost Trading Center. Emphasis will he made on proper tech­nique, dress and equipment, and safety. The advancL-d class will he taught hy J. V. Peacock, who has heen teaching cross-country skiing tiJr I~ ye-MS. Cost t(Jr the clinics is S6 for ski rental or S4 ifyou have your 0\\11 L"'t)Uipment. 'IlK· hcginner's clinic hegins at ·7 p.m. torn­
momIll', in 21 H ofthe Rockne Memorial Huild ing, and the advanced d;Lo;..<; at tiK· san1e timt: and san1e place on Thursday,Jan. 26. De-Jdline to rq~istcr is today.-The(Jbsenl(!1' 
Roster entrieS ti1r NVA's mt:n's and women's volleyball toumamt,lb arc lx:ing accepted until Wt-dnesday. Rosters must in­dude no k~;s than seven players, all ofwhom represent the same hall, plus the captain's nan1e and tekphont· munher. Games will consist of I'5 points and must he won hy at k·a.-;t two point<;; teams will play ht:st out of three. Submit rosters to the i.nterhall office or call 239­6100. -The Obsenl£>r 
Racquetball I>oubles men's and women's tourneys 
art:' heing sponsorL'tl by the NVA office. Players must represent the s;unt· hall and will play hest ofthree games to 21 points. Players will he notifk-d of draw and winners mtt<;t submit scores. To enter call 2_W·61 00 or stop by office (2-ACC byJan. 2'5. -7be Observer 
If you want to ski but don't have any skis, the NVA office is renting skis Thursdays through Sundays. Skis must be reserved in advance. Call 239-6100. -The Obsen,c>r 
A TrackCOtllpetitionis being sponsored by the NVA office. Events include 60-yard low hurdles, a mile run, a 4-lap relay, ~>0-yard da.o;h, 440-yard and 880-yard runs. an eight lap relay, high JUmp, and broad jump. Points will be awarded for first and second place halls a.o; ranked by points compiled by individuals. To sign up, call 239-6100 or stop by office C2-ACC. -The Obsen'er 
A Racquetball Clinic for beginners is being offered for students, t;tculty, and staff on Jan. .30 at 7 p.m. at ACC Court 2. Racquets will be provided and there is no charge. Call 239-6I 00 for more info. -The Obsen,er 
The Saint Mary's basketball team lost to 
Franklin College this weekend. 66-42. The Belles, who defeated Franklin earlier this season, committed 36 turnovers. The Belles' Elaine St·uss kd the scoring with 12 points. Kris Pantdlcria added II with Betsy Ebert pulling down I 3 rebounds and scoring nine points for the losers. The Roundball Classic at Saint Mary's begins this week. 
-The Obsen•er 

Monday, January 23, 1984-page 8 
Win 74-67 

Kentucky ends Houston streak 
LEXINGTON, Ken. (AP)-Soph­
omore Kenny Walker scored 20 
points and senior Mel Turpin added 
I9 as third-ranked Kentucky 
snapped the six-game college bas­
ketball winning streak of fourth­
ranked Houston 74-67 yesterday. 
Sam Bowie dominated the boards, 
grabbing 18 rebounds for the I4-2 
Wildcats, while Houston fell to 16-3. 
Akeem Olajuwon, the Cougars' 7­
foot center, was in foul trouble 
much ofthe game before fouling out 
with 0:14 remaining and Kentucky 
leading 61-54. 

Alvin Franklin. Houston's sopho­
more guard who finished with a 
game-high 2S points, kept the 
Cougars in the game. 

Houston pulled to within 70-67 
with l :S8 remaining as Franklin hit 
his I Oth straight point. 
The nationally televised (CBS) 
game then became a foul shooting 
contest as the Coug~rs fouled in or­
• • .Men 
continued/rom page 12 
after a flagrant foul with 28 seconds 
remaining in the first half. 
Sluby then keyed a 16-6 advantage 
at the beginning ofthe second halfto 
give Notre Dame a 39-35 lead with 
I2:33 remaining. 

Villanova's Dwayne M:Ciain 
scored on a play on which he 
charged and fouled out of the game 
to bring the Cats within three at 49­
46. 

The Wildcats' Harold Pressley 
fouled out after an Irish missed foul 
shot, and then Hicks scored on a 
three-point play off of another 
missed free throw and the Irish 
never looked back. 

For the record, Notre Dame ex­
ploded for S8 points in the second 
half, behind a 23-12 rebound ad­
vantage in the session. 
"Notre Dame played very well in 
the second half and outrebounded 
us throughout the game," added 
Massimino. "We didn't have the 
presence of Harold Pressley in the 
lineup -and that makes it very dif­
ficult. 

"The crowd (at the ACC) was 
very outstanding and Notre Dame 
capitalized well." 

The Irish players came over to the student section after the game to wave a thank you for a boisterous ef­fort. 
The fans have reason to cheer for the first time in a while. 
der to break up the Wildcats' stalling tactics. 
Freshman Winston Bennett made three of four free throws in the last 31 seconds to cushion the Kentucky margin. He finished with I I points. 
Michael Young added I9 and Olajuwon contributed 14 for Hous­ton. 
Houston led at the start 7-0 and II-I before Kentucky got rolling as Bowie collected l 0 rebounds in the first half After three ties Kentucky led at halftime 35-31. 
Walker's alley-oop stuff with R:OO 
continued from page 10 
starting lineup. 
"We'll be ready to play," assures Suitts. "The biggest problem the team may have is maybe being in­timidated because we're playing up there, but we're hoping we can play the game up to our potential. 
"Our total lack of size is our big­gest weakness," says Suitts. "We have to play against people like (Houston's Akeem Abdul) Olajuwon in the conference, so we have to deal with that in every game." 
The Irish have shown a good deal of improvement from their first games of the season. Notre Dame needs to gain some momentum to take it into the game against Maryland on an upbeat note. 
Captain Tom Sluby has been increasing his scoring punch, left gave the Wildcats their largest margin 61-S I. 
Kentucky, which suffered its only losses last week, now has won two straight. 
Helping Bowie on the boards were Turpin with I I rebounds and Walker with 10 as Kentucky out­rebounded tbt· Southwest Con­ference team '; l-4S. Olajuwon had 12 rebounds and blocked five shots. 
Kentuck t y outshot Houston from the floor 49 percent to .34, helping overcome 24 turnovers to the Cougars' l 3. 
• • • Rice 
averaging over I9 points for the last seven games. 
Scott Hicks and Joe Howard have registered two straight solid pert<>r­mances, giving the Irish a needed resurgence in the hackcourr. 
Suitts has a high opinion of the Notre Dame team. 
"Coacl] Phelps is on the verge of having a very good team." savs ~uins. "I have been very impres~d with the way they have hem playing. They have a lot of talent." 
IRISH ITEMS -Tonight's con­test against Rice is the first of three borne games for the Irish this week. On Wednesday night, the Irish will try to avenge last season's loss to Davidson. Sixth-ranked Maryland vists on Saturday at I p.m. in front of a national television audience. 

Cross-country ski clinic 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN The clinic for advanced skiers Sports Writer will begin at 7 p.m. in roorrt218 of the Rockne Buildingl on 
Cross-country ski clinics for Thursday, January 26. This clinic both the beginning and advanced will be taught by J.V. Peacock, an skier are being offered by the instructor for the Center who ha.~ Office for Non-Varsity Athletics. been teaching cross-country The clinic for beginners will skiing for 13 years. begin at 7 p.m. on Tuesday, January 24, in room 2I8 of the Cost for either clinic is S6.00 Rockne Memorial Building. It for lecture, outside instruction will be taught by Tim Weaver, ski and ski rental. If no ski rental i~ instructor for the Outpost needed, the fee is $4.00 for the Trading Center. Empha.~is in this instruction. The deadline to clinic will be on proper tech­register for the clinks is today. If nique, dress and equipment, and interested, you may register by 
safety. calling 239-6100. 





Classifieds 
SMC SOPHS LIZ, JEANIE & BETH (?)

Need 2 GA Maryland Tix call Nancy 4429 Saitin the Southern Sun Spring Break Let 
or Lon 4378 (SMC) Boat World Crwses show you the blue THANKS FOR THE RIDE ON THURS & water & golden sands of Florida and the 
SAVING ME FROM THUMBRRRING J

L......--N_o_T_IC_Es-...JI LOST/FOUND J ....._I_w_~_N_TE_D_____._J
I 

NEED TWO MARYLAND GAS WILL OF­Bahamas lor a week. On Campus Reps FER BIG BUCKS CALL 284-5202 Needed 
To the future or lo the past. to a trme when thought IS free. when men are dll· TYPING 277·8534 aner 5 30 FOR SALE 2 Maryland GAs call Anna· BOAT WORLD CRUISES ferent from one another and do not ltve 
Contact 

WAfllTED: Success·onented. sell­
mottvated tndtvldual to work 2-4 hours per 
alone-to a time when truth extsts and Expenenced T yp1st week plac1ng and filling posters on 
what is done cannot be undone. From the 
284·5028 1260 N. !"ederal Hwy. 
Lost One gray and white thln·stnped Pompano Beach. FL 33061 
campus. Earn $500-plus each school 
age of unilorm1ty.lrom the age ot solitude Hours from the age of B1g Brother. from the age 
Mrs Bedford long-sleeve Shirt accidentally m1sptaced 305·942·8500 
y~ar. 1-800-243-6679
1n someone s laundry by the St M1chael s IB.M to 5PM of doublethink-greetings' 1-27 be
dry cleantng serviCe If you have it. please Mon thruFn return toJifTlal X1101. PERSONALS Whatever happened to AI Ha1g? there.. 1984 288-2107 
NEED 2 DEPAUL AND 1 MARQUETTE 
LOST UCLA BASEBALL CAP IN TIX. ANY KIND MARYA 1317 THE YELLOW SUBMARINE WILL ATTENTION Ombudsman spnng ROCKNE MEM.AROUND JAN 12 HOHOHO DELIVER DELICIOUS SANDWICHES meet1ng Tuesday 1/24 at 8 1n Unle PLEASE RETURN TO LOST FOUND OR TO YOUR ROOM JUST CALL 272-4453 Theater LaFortune All old and any new 
HEY YOU! BETWEEN 8 and 11 pm MON·SAT members welcome Btg plans for thts dependable car under $500 looks don·t 
Join the $400 J-Ctub semester so much help is needed OBUOLEARN TO XC SKI THIS WINTER'! 
rnaner. no Iemmons please call ken 234· 
Let's make this a Joint effort! w1ll open on 1/26. Hours th1s semester 0283 eves. 
BEGINNERS SKI CLINIC TUESDAY. 
are 12·5.
JAN 24CALLNVA239-6100TOREGIS­

TER URBAN PLUNGERS TODAY IS MON­SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS -IN· 
DAY AT NOON YOUR REFLECTION FORMATION NIGHT THURSDAY JANSENIORS. Volunteer Work w1th HOLY

FOR RENT 

I NEED 2 DEPAUL TIX. CALL DAVE AT PAPERS ARE DUE AT THE CENTER 26 7 pm at the Center lor Soc1al Con­
CROSS ASSOCIATES. Community
STRETCHERCISE IS AN EXERCISE 1601 FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS THANKS' cerns. E1ght weeks of serv1ce NO Alumm
living and serv1ce in PHOENIX. CLASS FOR FACULTY AND STAFF Clubs award Soc1al Concerns Scholar·COLORADO, CALIFORNIA. AND 
OUT OF SHAPE? THIS CLASS IS FOR MALE ROOMMATE needed now. Castle LOUIS and John Who are you go1ng to Ship.
OREGON. Deadline lor applicationsYOU DEMONSTRATION ON TUESDAY P01nt. CALL Steve 277-3206 brown nose now?
Feb.3. Call Mary Ann Roemer. 7949 AT NOON IN THE ACC. GYM II CALL need 2 depaul t1x. student or ga. call ken II you have 1 mormng free to help pres·
REWRITE NVA FOR DETAILS AT 239·6100 SEVERAL HOUSES THAT WILL AC­234-0283 eves sue mulvthlff t love you. ralph choolers M·F from 8am-11 am come 10'" COMMODATE 2·7 STUDENTS HEAD START on lhurs 1/26 at 7 30pm 1n
' 

AVAILABLE FOR NEXT SCHOOL NEED 4 TIX(3 TOGETHER) FOR to the g~rll1v1ng off campus who' gave $27 HaggarSMC 
YEAR CALL AFTER 5. 234·9364 DEPAUL-CALLJIM AT 8951 HAPPY2tstCHIP.HAVE ONE ONUS­to lor b1lly 1001 llx where are they? b1ll 
JULIA JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT MOM&DAD x3267 Jill and Gretchen. Good Luck on your Sr BABY BEAR WAS DEAD THE Camp' Just lh1nk by the lime you read NIGHTMARE CONTINUES!!! The ABA ROB KEMPF OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR. thiS. rt w1ll all be over' (no. not your hie') ROOM -Sale w1th off-street park1ng. was­
NEED 4 B·BALL Tix lor Maryland game THANK YOU FOR REMEMBERING CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM U.S. 31 N . ONE Live 11 up ton1ght! You guys deserve ''' MCAT USED KAPLAN BOOKS 1071 her & dryer Call Mrs Cooper. 272·3004 
Also need 41or DePaul Call Rob at 3251 ANNA BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN Luv. Tncta 


Monday,January 23, 1984 -page 9
The Observer 

Workouts for the 54th Bengal Bouts have begun! On how to become Rocky .rv, call Angelo Perino at 3348, Tom Lezynski at 1728, orMike Latz at 8308. Workouts begin at4p.m. every day in the north dome ofthe ACC. 
"Possessed" by the grim memory ofblowing a 20-point lead in a 56-54 defeat to Purdue last year. the Illini took control of the Boilermakers this time around. 
"We remember last year-there was no way we were going to let them get back in the game," a pumped-up Illinois center George Montgomer,y said after the Illini hammered visiting Purdue 76-52 Saturday night. 
It was 19th-ranked Purdue's first Big Ten loss and dropped the Boiler­makers into a tie with No. I 0 Illinois for the league lead. Both clubs are 4-1 in conference play. 
Illinois tossed in its last eight shots of the first half and shot 60 percent from the floor overall. Purdue managed only 40 percent of its shots, and hulking, 245-pound cen­terjim Rowinski-whose 18-footer at the horn sealed Purdue's come­back against Illinois last year ­failed to score a point until 26 minutes had passed. He wound up with six points -I 0 below his 
average. 

"We were possessed," said Montgomery, who swarmed about the middle to isolate Rowinski from Purdue's playmaking guards. "There 
Big Ten roundup 
No. 10 Illinois beats No. 19 Purdue 

young men 16-35
SYMBOL ... "OF THE MAN WHO RECEIVES IN GIVING" 


FRANCISCANS 
1/wzd ()Jtdtu I<~ 
DIRECTOR OF VOCATIONS, FRANCISCANS, TOR 2006 EDGEWATER PARI<WAY SILVER SPRING, MARYLAND 20903 
Please send me the free booklet at no obligation. 
NO

Na.me age 
Address 

City State_____ Zip___ (Check preference) Priesthood Brotherhood 
Attention All Juniors Junior Parents Weekend Information 
The deadline for all returns is January 31. 1984. If your parents have not yet mailed in their registration forms please encourage them to do so as soon as possible! 
Also, if your parents have not received a registration form, you may pick them up in the Students' Activities Office in LaFortune. All parents SHOULD have received them before Christmas break. 
Also, if you would like to purchase additional tickets for any event in addition to those ordered by your parents on their registration form, or if you hav"~ any questions concerning registration, please contact Linda at 2737. 
was nothing they could do tonight. Probably because we were at home and it was a (Assembly Hall) sellout, helped." 
Going into halftime with another 20-point bulge, 38-18, Illini players went around to each other saying, "Not this time." 
It was IBinois' most resounding victory against PUrdue since 1965. 
"It was very simple," said Purdue Coach Gene Keady. "They were ready for us. It didn't make any dif­ference that we spent all week run­ning their offense in practice. We wasted our time. We might as well have stayed home and studied. 
"We were never in this game," he continued. "What happened last year was once in a lifetime. They were just determined not to let it happen again." 
Quinn Richardson led IBinois, 13­2 overall, with 14 points, Montgomery had 13, Doug Alten­berger 12 and Scott Meents 11. Steve Reid paced Purdue, 11-4 in all games, with 14 points. 
In Ann Arbor, Tim Mcwrmick's 
game-high 16 points boosted Michi­
gan to a 55-50 victory over Indiana, 
but the game paled beside fireworks 
between the two opposing coaches. 
who claimed to have been friends 
beforehand. 
The Hoosiers' Bobby Knight ex­ploded in rage after he overheard Wolverine court boss Bill Frieder urge the referee to assess Knight an­other technical foul on top ofone he had already received. 
"It burns me to get that kind of treatment from a guy I've helped out more than any coach in the 
continued/rom page 12 
shorthanded. 
Parsons tallied the lone Notre Dame goal in the second period. St. Norbert finally got on the board at the 18:27 mark, but trailed 7-1. At 
11 :4 7 Notre Dame's Rob Ricci was stopped by St. Norbert goalie Dave King on a penalty shot after a St. Nor­bert defenseman had covered the puck in the goal crease. 
Whitmore completed his hat trick in the third period. notching two goals within 38 seconds beginning at 8:17. 
"It felt great," said Whitmore. "I settled down, gained some con­fidence and was ready to play good hockey. Everything worked out." 
St. Norbert picked up its final goal country," said Knight. "I don't like being used, and BiU Frieder has used me." 
Frieder told reporters, "he may not be my friend any more, but he's the best basketball coach in the country. . . .I can't understand Knight. Can you guys?" 
Michigan improved to 12-4 over­all and 4-2 in the Big Ten. Freshman Steve Alford led Indip.na, 10-5 and 3­2, with 12 points. 
In Evanston, Art Aaron posted 17 points and Northwestern, 9-6 over­all and 2-3 in the league, overcame a sorry 12-for-25 performance at the line to edge Minnesota 52-50 in overtime. 
Andre Goode, held scoreless for 37 minutes, scored two tying bas­kets near the end of regulation time, 
then add the extra period. Tommy Davis led Minnesota, I 0-5 and -4, with 15 points. 
Elsewhere. Greg Stokes sank 23 points as Iowa downed visiting Wis­consin 75-62. The Hawkeyes, 9-6 and 2-3, limited high-scoring Badger guard Ricky Olson to eight points. Wisconsin. 7-8 and 3-3. was led by Cory Blackwell's 26 points. 
In East Lansing, Tony Campbell rang up 25 points as Ohio State, 9-6 and 2-3, dealt Michigan State its fifth straight Big Ten loss, 82-68. The Spartans. 7-8 and 1-5. were spear­headed by Scott Skiles with 24 points. 
Wisconsin plays at Minnesota on Wednesday, and on Thursday Iowa meets Ohio State, Northwestern faces Indiana, Michigan is at Purdue and Michigan State at Illinois. 
• • . Hockey 
as Bart Baugnet slid one past Irish goalie Marc Guay at 18:19 of the period. 
John Lucas finished off the Notre Dame scoring with just 47 seconds remaining. It was his first goal as a Norre Dame hockey player. 
Guay had 19 saves in recording the victory. St. Norbert's King had 
42. --.r The losses drop St. Norbert to 4­12 on the season. 
This year's Irish hockey team now holds the school record for con­secutive games without a loss.1t also set the record for the longest un­beaten streak at home. 
Notre Dame travels to Lake Forest on Wednesday evening to take on the Foresters in an 8:30p.m. contest. 


The Observer Monday,January 23, 1984-page 10 
Women's basketball 
DePaul defeats disappointing Irish 
By MIKE SULLIVAN ing, and poor defense took the Irish didn't take them. We also didn't go Sports Editor out of the game almost from the to the hasket because we were afraid opening tip. They fell behind 36-16 to get fouls. 
CHICAGO -This past week will before the half mercifully ended. "Our intent is to get good shots not go down in history as one of the "DePaul was ready to play a bas­that fall and you hope to shoot 60-70 highlights of the Notre Dame ketball game and we weren't," said percent. We didn't anticipate mis­women's basketball team's 1983-84 DiStanislao. "They felt their loss to sing, though. and we just waited for season. Three games, three losses, Loyola (last week) was a fluke and DePaul to lay down and die." including Saturday night's 62-46loss they played like a team ready to to conference rival DePaul in make up for it. They didn't shoot The Blue Demons did not die. al­
Alumni Hall. great, but they executed very well." rhough it looked like they might af­
Now, with the season quickly After falling behind I 1-4 early, ter an entirely new Irish lineup going downhill, Irish coach Mary Notre Dame made a brief run at the scored nine unanswered points to DiStanislao has declared that some Blue Demons, pulling to within get back into the game. However, majtlr changes will be made. three points. A few minutes later, DePaul guardJudy Banathy got open 
"In the next five days (before though, the Irish were barely within for an easy basket and Notre Dame Friday's game against Evansville), shouting distance as DePaul's Barb quickly lost its composure. Three there will be some changes made," Atsaves andJanine Douglas led a ral­straight traveling violations cf­warned DiStanislao. "For the past ly that saw the Demons outscore the fccrively took the Irish out of the two games we've spent time groping Irish, 25-8, over the next ten game completely. for the right combination among the minutes. All was not bad, though, as Trena regulars. We still haven't found it." Notre Dame's failure to make its Keys and Lynn Ebben led a 
Saturday's game is not the only shots ( 7-of-35 in the half) and patchwork lineup to a 30-26 edge in reason for the change, which was DePaul's 27-20 dominance of the the second half. This would not be becoming more and .more im­boards kept the Irish from even roo impressive if DePaul had cleared minent, but the team's lifeless per­making a run at the lead. Only once its bench when it had things well in formance in the first half was the last in the half did they make more than hand. However, Demon coach Ron straw. one unanswered basket. Feicreisel, who will not win any Mr. 
The half represented the team's "Our rebounding situation in the Congeniality contests, left almost his worst performance in at least two first half was horrendous," said DiS­entire starting lineup in the game years. Poor shooting, poor rebound-tanislao. "We got good shots, but we until the buzzer. 
Men's basketball 

Irish give a hoot about the Owls 
By THERON ROBERTS Rice. The first game between the the bench to start the la.~t I l games Sports Writer two schools resulted in a 105-61 of the season for the Owls. They
A key to Saturday's victory over the Wildcats was the strong 

Irish rout during the 1978-79 head the list of backcourt players
defensit•e play ofKen Barlow and Tim Kempton on All-American 

The Rice Owls take a breather season. again this sea.o;on.
candidate Ed Pinckney. The dynamic duo held the Villanova star 

from its rugged Southwestern Con­The Owls have struggled so far Petitt, a 6-l sophomore point
to fir•e points before Pinckney fouled out of the game. The 

ference schedule and journey north this year but have turned in good guard, is the second-lt:ading scorer 
national~y-televised game should be a big liftfor the young Irish, 

from Houston to face the Irish at the performances in recent losses to for the Owls this season with a 9.7 
as they gained confid('nCe at the free-throw ltne ~~making clutch 

Athletic and Convocation Center Texas and Texas Tech. scoring average. Although Petitt,
charity shots. Tonighfs game againstRice, which starts at 8 p.m. at 

tonight, with the action starting at 8 Tommy Suitts, third-year coach of according to his coach, has been 
the ACC, should be an interesting one, because ifNotre Dame suf 

p.m. the Owls, ha.~ only three seniors on hampered by "inconsistent shoot­
fers too big a let dou>n after their victory, they could be beaten. 

This will be only the second his team, and is in the midst of ing" recently, his quickness is a meeting between Notre Dame and rebuilding the Rice program. The valuahlt: asset, 01~ h~ lt:ads Rice in as­Owls have not had a winning season sists and steals.
Great depth 

in basketball for 13 years. Steele will start at the other guard "I am pleased with the way we position. The 6-4 junior is scoring at have played so far this season, but a 8.2 clip. 

Women fencers look impressive 
we wish we could have a couple The leading scorer for the Owls is more wins to our credit," Suitts says. 6-8 junior forward Tony Barnett.
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL tiona! experience and will be a great 'Td pay to watch the women's 
"We have played pretty well the last Suitts says that Barnett has playedSports Writer asset to the team. squad fence," continued DeCicco. five games." well lately, and has assumed a Another outstanding freshman "This is a spirited and talented team. 
That was before the Owls fell to leadership rolt: among his The Notre Dame women's fencing who would have solidified the squad The women's team could bring ana­Southwestern Conference op­teammates. Barnett carries a I 0.8 
team. now in its thirteenth year. will was Michelle Madon. According to tional title to Notre Dame in the 
ponent Houston, 72-42, Friday scoring average and is also tops in he looking for its twelfth con­D~Cicco, however, she has chosen next few years (and) I wouldn't be 
night. rebounding for the Owls. secutivt· winning season under the to leave Notre Dame after her first surprised if we're not in the thick of 
Rice suffered from many mis­Joining Barnett at forward is 6-""! 
direction of Coach Mike DeCicco as semester in order to prepare for the things come March." 
fortunes last year that contributed to sophomore Terrence Cashaw. Ca.~­
they begin 19H4 with a record of 1-1 Junior World Championships to be The Irish will be on the road for 
its 8-20 record. haw contributt·s 9. <; points per gamegoing into this past weekend's ac­held in Leningrad, Russia, over Eas­four oftheir final five Saturday meets 
Four ofits top players did not play to the Rice attack. tion. ter. before going to Northwestern on 
part of the 1982-83 season, allowing Mike Cunningham (9.3 scoringTht· Irish. who hoast a 124-45 Madon who was ranked third Sunday, March 4, where they must 
th e younger members of the Rice average) will start at center. The 6-8 record since their ht·ginning, will he among the Junior Olympians in the qualify for the 1984 Women's NCAA squad to gain playing experience. senior rounds out the balanced Owl looking to improve on last year's I7-United States last year will be Championships to be held March Two ofthose players. Tracy Steele 
6 mark and 12th place finish in the missed. However, the ·Irish have 22-24 at Princeton. see RICE, page 8
and Ivan Petitt, were called on from 
NCAA tournamt·nt. other capable fencers • including In th~ timrth year of his five year freshman Cindy Weeks ( 2-1 ) and 


Ir-•-------------------------------------~Who's going to Win? 1
Tug of War 



I STRESS MANAGEMENT I
I FOR Graduate Students I 
I •Are you wondering how to get geared up for the coming semester and enjoy 1 yourself too? 1 
•
Are you interested in how to relax? When is a good time to relax? 1 

• 
Do you want to know why you feel the stress? Why you burn-out from I time to time? I Are you interested in establishing your priorities? Values? What is important I to you? I 

•
Are you interested in managing your time better? I 

•
Are you int~rested in managing your guilt and enjoying yourself and your time? I If you answered yes to any of these questions, our program may be helpful to I you. In cooperation with the Graduate Student Union, the Counseling and I Psychological Services Center is offering a: 


I 
building plan. Coach DeCicco will look to replace two outstanding ath­lett·s in Susan Valdiserri (. 72<; career winning pt'fl.'t'ntage for four years) and Charlotte Albertson (51 vic­tories in 19H_~ ). 
Providing t·xperienn· and l~ader­ship on this year's lady fi>il squad are St·nior Co-Captains Mary Shilts and Sharon DiNicola. Shilts, who ac­hieved a 31-2 5 record last yt·ar, will he an anchor for tht· team at one of the top starting positions. After 
SophomoreJanet Sullivan ( 2-0) who 
will compete for starting positions 
along with Senior Kathy Morrison. 
Besides these top fencers, the Irish will maintain a team of great depth with 16 women on the squad. "It certainly is nice to have depth," 
commented DeCicco. "Last year we searched for the right chemistry; now we have seniors with hout ex­perience and freshmen who arc going to make a mark for them­selves. 
meets against Pt·nnsylvania and Cor­ndl. Shilts was 2-2. 
DiNicola, a three year starter who will he in the numher one or two slot. has won the Dit Lansford award twice and hoasts a H0-67 lifetime record. After the Cornell match last Tuesday, Di Nicola was 4-0 as sht· prowd to he the kt·y figure in the 
I0-6 Irish win owr Cornell. 
Coach DeCicco will look to Shilts 
and I>i Nicola to provide steady 

~ STRESS MANAGEMENT WORKSHOP AT
~~ ::Ill
leadership for his young and inex­

has new hours FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS WILSON COMMONS 
pt-rkncnl team throughout this 
9am-9pm Mon.-Sat. 
y~ar. 

MONDAY FROM 
One freshman who is rapidly t•s­

25#clubcardshonored2-9p.m.§ JANUARY 23,1984 -' 6:00pm TO 7:30pm I
tahlishing hersdf as a strong foiler is Pia Albertson ( 4-0) who finished 
gDeliveries unti/8p.m. ~ I sixth in the llnited States Ft·ndng As­sociation ( liSFA) Collegiate Open 
S ($/1m:J. With a Stress Management Workshop · You Cjlln Win!! I 
on January 14th. According to 

J...........·'..........,., . ..._____________________________________j
I>t-t:tcn>: 'Aihc'n.son. m.>asts intc:ma-. 
IIIG'"...c-'"................oo-'"......~.....COOC 



T0 day__________________
M_o_n_d_ay_,_Jan_u_ary_2_3_,1_9_8_4_p_a_g_e_ll 
Bloom County 
L.OOK, ~R ... 
ACOOP!£ Of 
YOUF?. NAT!Vf. ;~l, 
ANTARCTICANS ... 

Peanuts 
Guindon 
., 

Berke Breathed 
•.INHABITAN15 OF Tfl€ PUII£5T, 
UNW~T, M05T UNSPO!l£1? R~L €:5f~ IN lli€ 00111£ WORl.P... WH/01, OF COUR5€, MAI<£5 1H€M QVI1E3 
5KIIT/5H ... 
WAR:H 
1HI5 ... 




Gary Larson
Richard Guindon The Far Side 




Campus 
•All 
Day -Book Sale, 607 Memorial Library, Sponsored by University Archives, 5c to S5 

•6 
p.m. -Workshop, "Stress Management Workshop for Graduate Students," Dr. Patrick Utz, Wilson Commons 

•7 
p.m. -Dance Class, Jane Fonda Workout, Spring Semester Session. Holy Cross Hall Party Room, NO, Sponsored by Abiogenesis Dance Col­lective, SlO 

•7 
and 9:20p.m -Film, "On the Beach," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free 


•"' p.m. -Monday Night Film Series, "King Kong," Annenberg Auditorium 
•7:30 
p.m. -Meeting ofthe Women's Caucus, Memorial Library Lounge 

•8 
p.m. -TransferForum, Knights ofColumbus 

•8 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Men vs. Rice, ACC Arena 

•9 
p.m. -Monday Night Film Series II, "Rome Open City," Annenberg Auditorium 




TV Tonight 
6p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 2Z ZZ Eyewirness News 28 Newswatch 28 
6:30p.m. 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 
7 p.m. 16 MA.'iH 22 PM Magazine 28 Joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 
7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 34 Straight Talk 
8p.m. 16 Tv Bloopers, Commercials and 
Practical Jokes 22 Aftermash 28 That's lncredihle 34 Frontline 
8:30p.m. 22 Newhart 
9p.m. 16 Monday Night at the Movies 22 CBS Movie Special 28 Monday Night Movie 34 Great Performances 
llp.m. 16 NewsCenter !6 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 


The Daily Crossword· 

ACROSS 30 Retainer 57 Emtnd 7 France's 1 Pequod's 31 Pergola 62-fixe gift In NY captain 35 I love: Lat. 63 Gardening harbor 5 Sheriff's 36 Casalleand time 8 Call for group Persian 65 Maturation help10 Metrtc 39 Heraldic 
agent 9 Put Into unit, for pattern 66 Athand office short 67 Eur. subway 10 Kind of 14 Theater 40 Lindbergh's court seat plane 68 Zhlvago's 11 "Put-the 15 Praise 43 Otherwise sweetheart oven for •.." 16 Above 44 Dahl or 69 NY river 12 Falana 17 Math. Francis 70 Nordic of song
division 45 Child 71 Trees 13 Energy bloc 18 Bullyrag 46 Beginnings 19 Green color 48 Sloths DOWN 21 "Moon 
20 Heated 49 Longlock 1 Pond plant Over-" 
exchange 51 Egyptian 2 Gardener 23 Mouths: Lat. 22 Fine brandy measure 26 Features of 24 Letter 53 Cedar Rap· spectacles 
opener ids school at times 271nCI~s 25 Neplus-3 Unbelieving 28 Moretban 4 Addle enough 54 Annual pay 
5 Ustinov the 29 Outcry 27 Capital of lora plt­actor 30 Plant Crete lrlot 6 Bovines treatises 
32 Savage 52 Tense 
creature situation 33 Mixtures 53 Punctuat1on 34 Relaxes mark 37 Gr. letter 54 Eatwell 38 Stopping 55 Concert 
place: abbr. halls 56 Meadows 41 Final 58 lt. money 
warning 59 Bedouin 42 Pretend head cord 47 Spanish 60 Specified 
lady: abbr. period 50 Entertain 61 Ages sumptuously 64 Foreach 
Friday's Solution 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 1123/84 

StLJOent Union 


PRINTIN.G SERVICE 
New· Replacing campus Press 
Bring camera-ready poster art to S.U. Record Store for your posters and table tents 

~---------------------------------------------·----.,I 
.........................................................~ 
WHATDOES THE :
•
•

STUDENT UNION RECORD STORE •
•

CHEAPER PRICES...Savel4-1l•ffllstprwer.' 

HAVE FOR ME? !

MOSTCURRENTSINGLES-,.,orcnmpo""' 
58.9911511 
CUT -OUTS... , .•,.," 
GREA TSELECT/0/v'... Sprmrc.Ht'l!n, fo}lt'lhrrl!, ..,,,.~t'lt' 
'".1.5, Chns/Opht•r Cms~. '*.fuodJ Blul'~. Putlkmuur, Jour"!~\ and man.\, many mort• 
ALSO... rt'l"llrdf'dandblan"-IOPf'SO'tiallable 
CONVENIENCE... Thf'f'¥DSURt>t.·urdStur~uiiJ<.Uit!d 
""Iiff' 'dtJm Fluor ofLaFonum· 
Plus-urde-re-dulhwm tak~rmf.\ one-M."f!t'A tourrnf'' 
······••a•a 
--------------------------~~--~~------------------..1 


Sports 
Monday,January 23, 1984 -page 12 

Irish make crucial free throws, control Pinckney, beat Villanova 
By WILL HARE wt· did this prt·try well -as you By the end of the game. live Sports lf'riter could tell hy th~o: tinaI scort·." Wildcats (including four starters) The agg ressive tkfcnse and of­fouled out, giving Notre Dame For tht: lri~h. it wa~ a mighty im­fensive sparks from Joe Howard and enough free throw practice to last portant win. Scott !licks off the h~.:nch keyed th~.: them until the NCAA tournament. 
Aftn a halt~season of missnl liHII Irish. now I().<;_ Villanova picked up ~7 fouls to just shob and laM ~eumd losse~. till' lloward. a <;.9 junior playing in 19 for Notre Dame. The Irish earned Notrt· Damt· ha~kethall team \\Tnt just his tifth game since joining the the victory hy going to the line Y• on national tell-vision and pkknlup squad after the football season. times in the last live minutes of the an H I-6H deci~ion over Villanova at scored all of his I I points in the gamt·. the AC<:. St"Cond halfwhile sparking a defense 
While the visiting Wildcats ( 6-H) which created 20 Villanova tur­Tom Sluhy again proved himself didn't entn with an impressive novers. the leader. scoring a game-high 2~ ren>rd. tht· lrbh tinally he:u a "hig­"lie's an athlete and athktescome points. namt·" school and ~hut down an All­to play," said Wildcat coach Rollie Sluhy, a 6-4 senior, netted I 0 of 17 American in the process. Massimino. "lie gives them (Notre shots to pa<:e the Notre Dame attack 
Dame) a very nice addition in the for the llfth time in the last six 
II b nanw b Ed Pinckney ami hackcourt." games. while he is <>Ill' of the top players in "Joe is that link spark that we "lie's our star," stated Phelps. th~.: country, Jim Dolan and tht· rest need with the loss ofDan Duff," adds "Sometimes I don't think he realizes of the Notre Dame defense Digger Phelps. "He helps to create how good he is." n·spondnl to the te~t hy holding ofti:nsive situations. lie helped us Notre Dame trailed 29-23 at him to a st·;L...,m·low ';points. gt·t into an up-tempo game." halftime after Villanova's Dwight 
"Tod;ty w~.: tri~.:d to sag and take The up-tempo attack forced Vil­Wilbur scored on a four-point play away hb ( Pinckney's) insidt· gamt·." lanova into grave ti>UI diftkultit:s the 
see MEN, page 8 
said Irish captain Tom Sluhy. "I think th~o: Irish continually exploited. 
Marcus Allen MVP 


Bad boy Raiders whip Redskins 
TAMPA, Fla. (AI')-Marcus Allen tht· Rnlskins at thl'ir I 2-yard line purpose hack but Squirek, sweeping rushnl for a rt'l'ord I91 yards, with 12 seconds remaining in th~.: to his right, stepped bl'lween them, including a 7-1-yard touchdown run, llrst half. Thl'ismann brought his grabbed the hall and was in the end and tht· Los Angeks tleft·nst· shut team to the line with three recdvers zone in a flash. down Washington's John Riggins split wide to the right, apparently The Raiders' bench erupted. and Jot· Tlll'ismann as the Raiders ready to try for a bomb. Coach Tom Flores grinning widely crushed tlw ddt·mling champion Instead. he only looked to his while his players danced around. On Redskins .~H-9 yesterday in the most right, then turned to his left, where the other sideline, Coach Joe Gibbs lopsidnl Supt·r Bowl evt·r. Joe Washington was a step outside muttered what for him what must 
l'lllkrstudks Ikrrick Jensen and defensive end Lyle Alzado. Theis­
have been an expletive at what had Jack Squirt·k turned alert defensive mann lofted the hall toward his all-
become a 21-~ halftime deficit. plays into instant tirst-half touch­
downs hdi>rt· Allen, a unanimous 
Hoodlum hockey 
sekl'tion a_, tht· game's Most Valuahk Playn. hroke loose in tht· st·cond half and pat:nl tht· Raiders to 


Perfect Irish beat and defeat St. Norbert's 
a Supt·r Bowl record .~H points. Allen pkkt·d up his yardage on 20 

By ED DOMANSKY the midway point of the period to Gone for St. Norbert were Gar­for the second St. Norbert goal. carril's and hrokt· the ret:ortl of 166 
.\jJOrts Writer put Notre Dame up 6·1. Both Ben­land, Chuck Taffe and Nick Candotti. Lukenda needed just 17 saves to rushing yards st·t hy Riggins in last 
ning goals were powerplay efforts. Notre Dame played without the earn the victory.year's 27-1 ~ Washington victory 
"Turn out the lights, the party's The St. Norbert intimidation services of Benning, Steve Ely and On Saturday, the Green Knights ovt·r tht· Miami Dolphins. over." For the Green Knights of St. worked well to aggravate the Notre Tim Reilly. were never in the game. Despite the 
Jt·nst·n, a reserve tight end and Norbert College, this familiar little Dame players, but did little to aid the "Anytime anyone even touches continous intimidation, Notre Dame LA's spt·dal teams captain, blocked 
line was echoing in their minds, not Knights overall cause. Ninety-nine your goaltender, it's like an unwrit­played a more disciplined game. 
.kff llayt·s' punt and fell on it in the just as this weekend's hockey games 
minutes in penalties were assessed ten rule that you protect him," said "We played much better hockey end zone for a touchdown 4:S2 into drew to a dose, but right from the on the evening, forty-live against the Benning. "And I tried to protect tonight," said the Irish mentor the game. Squirek, a backup 
early stages as wdl. The over­Irish. him." Smith. "After being offfor so long, i£ linebacker, interceptt·d Theis­
matched Knights fell victim to a far­At the .i: 17 mark of the final The Irish turned on the red light was quite nice to do well." 
mann's S{Tet·n pass and hurst live superior Notre Dame squad by stanza, tempers flared when St. Nor· four more times in third period as In the t1rst period, the Irish picked yards ti>r a score just st·vt·n seconds 

identical 10-2 scores. bert's Mike Garland punched Notre four different players connected. up six goals for an insurmountable 
bdort· halftime. 

Nmre Dame is now I S-0-0 overall Dame goaltender Tim Lukenda. Ben­Whitmore, Bob Thebeau, Tom lead. Chapman, Parent, Whitmore, 
Iktween those scores, Jim 

and 9·0·0 in the Central States Col­ning retaliated in an effort to protect Parent and Adam Parsons picked up Metz t ler, Tony Bonadio and Dave· Plunkt·tt passeJ 12 yards to Cliff legiate llockey League. his goalie levelled Garland. When the goals. Parsons and Whitmore Waldbillig tallied the goals. Two of
') 
Branch for a second-period touch­Friday evening St. Norbert scored everything llnally settled, six players scored the third and fourth Notre the goals came while the Irish were 
down and Allt-n applied the coup de early in the game, hut never scored had been ejected and would miss Dame powerplay goals on the night. 
grace in tht· third quarter with two again until the Irish, led hy two goal Saturday's game as wdl. Scott Bunting beat Lukenda at 14:05 see HOCKEY, page 10 
touchdowns -running live and a efforts from co-captain Brent Chap­
Supt·r Bowl record 7·i yards to put man and Mark Benning, had put nine 
tht· Raiders ~>afdy in commaud for 

goals of their own on the hoard. their third Super Bowl triumph. On Saturday, Notre Dame 
Tht· Rnlskins had ht·t·n .i·point grabbed a 6-0 lead after one period, r;tvorite~ to win thl'ir st·contl SLK­
and nevtT looked hack. Steve cessin· Supn Bowl -hut hy hold­Whitmore st·ored the hat trick to ing Riggins to 64 yards and pace the Irish attack. 
Washington's only touchdown on a The scrappy St. Norbert team gave 
I -yard dive in tht· third p~o:riod, tht· 

its all trying to keep up with the Raiders hecamt· the only team high-flying Irish, hut found little bt·sitk~ the Pittsburgh Steders to 
success. win more than two. The Stt'l'krs "They couldn't sk~te with us." won f(Hir tinlt's in th~o: 1970's. said Chapman. "They were just Thrn· plays snn·d to propd tht· 
hacking us. It's pretty frustrating and Raider~ to thb victory ovt·r a team hard to keep your cool." which. at 1·1-2 was tht· best in the "They were a physical team," said 
National Football Lt:ague during tht· Notre Dame head coach Lefty Smith. regular ~cason -Squirek's inten:t:p· ·'They try to intimidate their opposi­tion. Allen's big run, and ht't\\'een tion to slow them down. We just had 

tht·m. a deknsin· stand that stopped too much skating ability and a.~ a Riggins on f(lurth-and-one at tht· LA 
result, the games were so onesided." 26 latt· in tht· third quarter. If that 

AfterJoe Ventimiglio gave St. Nor­wasn't enough. tht· ddcnse also 
ht:rt a quick 1·0 kad just I :.36 into hlot·ked a Washington t·xtra-point Friday's contest, Chapman, Mike 
;Htt·m pt and forn·d a Thdsmann Metzler and Tim Reilly struck for 
fumble that t·ntled a Rt·dskins threat Notre Dame to give it a ~-1 lead after 
in tht· lilurth period. 

one period. Tht· Redskins never were really in Chapman put tht· Irish up by three 


Thr <>hsc:'rvC'r/Paul CibrriU 

the game. Riggins' run typitled the with his second goal ofthe game one 
Steve E~y and the rest ofthe Notre Dam e bock(')' the fights, as three leers were thrown out of the
Redskins' frustration on this day. minute into the second period. Ben­
team htUI quite a tangle with St. Norbert's this game as suspended for two. See Ed Domansky's
With the Raitkrs holding a 14·5 ning followed with both ofhis goals, 
u•eekend in the ACC. The games weren't as close as story above.
lead. Ray Guy's 27-yard punt buried less than three minutes apart. before 




