
SPECIAL EDITION 


VOL XVIII, NO. 131 the indcpcmlt-nt ~tudcnt nl·w~papl-r ~cn·ing notrt dame and ~aint man·~ THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 1984 
'We're not going to let it happen' 


More than 2,500 students gathered outside the Ad­ministration Building (top) to protest the Univer­sity's new alcohol policy. Student Body President Rob Bertino (above), one ofjour students to address the crowd, said, "We're not just going to sit back and let it happen." The demonstration climaxed when students stormed into ihe building (left) and shouted jeers from the rotunda under the Dome. 
Photos by Lev Chapelsky 

2,000 storn1 Admin building during alcohol demonstration 
By DAN McCULLOUGH and 
THOMAS SMALL 
StaffReporters 
Nearly 2,000 Notre Dame students chargt'd 
through the doors of the Administration Building 
yesterday after a rally protesting 'the University's 
new alcohol policy erupted into nl'ar-riot condi­
tions. 
Dean of Student James Roemer attt'mpted to 
address the gathering from the third floor balcony of 
the building's rotunda, but was drowned out by jeers 
and shouts of the crowd. 
The crowd began to assemble in front ofthe build­
ing at about noon, chanting slogans such as "We are 
not dry," "Wht're is Ted?," and "Less filling; Tastes 
great." Student government kaders appeared 10 
minutes later and spoke to the assembly. 
Student Body President Rob Bertino began, "l 
hope you guys are all fired up and ready to say what 
we feel about this alcohol policy. I've got it right 
here," he said waving a copy of the 28-page report. 
"Tell me what you guys think about it." The crowd 
replied with boos and shouts. 
Bertino introduced Cathy David, studt'nt body 
vice president. David said, "This is really something. 
When so many students can come together with one 
voice people have to listen." She continued, "The 
students are tired of being talked down to. It's time 
for the llniverisity to start treating us fairly." 
In her speech, David referred to the administra­tion as treating students like "legal infants." She also emphasized unity as the key to student action on the issue. 
Next, Bertino presented Dave McAvoy, forml'r 
student senator. In his speech, :V1cAvoy said, "Today 
the eyes of America are now upon us. Many say we 
are a generation in search ofa cause. l say to you we 
have found the cause." McAvoy accused the ad­
ministration of slowly taking away the capacity of 
students to make decisions. "The administration is 
taking away our responsibility and with that goes 
our freedom," he continued. He concluded his 
speech by saying, "I say we take action now." 
Chris Tayback, president of the Hall President's 
Council, spoke after McAvoy. "Last night as l was 
walking back from D-6 (parking lot) ...I heard a lot 
ofnoise. So I went over to Corby Hall and Isaw !,'iOO 
students screaming. And I was glad." He continued, 
"If we ever had a reason to fight, this is it." Tayback 
concluded, "Just remember, we are Notre Dame." 
Bertino took the podium next. In his speech he 
outlined a four-point plan for protesting the report's 
recommendations. The plan calls for: 
• 
Banners to be hung from every room on campus. "We want you to tell how you feel about this alcohol policy on that banner," he said. 

• 
Petitions and letters to be sent out for signature by every student on campus. "We're not going to just sit back and let it happen like they think. We're going to keep pushing it," he added. 

• 
Black arm bands to be worn at another rally next Friday, April 27. "We want every student to wear one ofthese armbands on their left arm to symbolize the death ofsocial life here at Notre Dame," said Ber­tino. 

• 
A Friday night candlelight vigil. "We're going to start at the Administration Building with one candle lit. And we're going to pass this candle around and have everybody light their candle. It will go on all throughout the quad to show the unity of the stu­dents," he explained. 


see ALCOHOL, page 4 

The Observer Thursday, Aprill9, 1984-page 2 

, 

In Brief 
A U.S. Annyhelicoptercarrying two u.s. s~nators 
was hit hy gunfin: in Honduras nt:ar the Salvadoran border y~st~rday and forced down, but all s~v~n people aboard w~re unharm~d. according to aides to ont: of the s~nators and State: D~partm~nt offi­cials. "The: senator ... was in a helicopter that was shot down," said Charlt-s Canady, an aide to Sen. Lawton Chil~s. D-Fla. Th~ othcr senator aboard thc aircraft was J. Bcnnett johnston, D-La. -AP 
The United States yesterday proposed 
a new treaty banning chemical wcapons and Vic~ Prcsid~nt Georg~ 
Bush told the Geneva Disarmament Confcrcncc it would climinatc 
"thc possibility of chemical warfare forever." In an address to thc 
·lO-nation confercnce, Bush said the 66-pagc draft provisions arc 
"indispc:nsablc to an effectiv~ treaty" and urged the Sovi~t Union and 
other countries to adopt "open invitation" provisions allowing on­
site· inspections of chemical weapons facilities any timc, anywh~r~. 
In thc first dircct response: to thc fullll.S. proposal, Victor Issraclyan, 
thc l.·hid Soviet dell-gate, said it would he studied "lik~ any other 
paper," hut Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko seem~d to reject the 
chemical proposal as a cover for building up U.S. chemical arms. ­
AP 

Britain's ambassador to Libya was escorred 
from the Briti~h Embas~y in Tripoli yesterday to the home of the Libyan fore·ign ministe-r, the· ambassador:s wife.: said. Thc British Foreign Oftle-c-in London later announced that Ambassador Oliva Mill-s and 24 othe·r Britons werc allowcd to lcavc the embassy today, some· 24 hours aftcr it was scalcd olf hy Libya guards, and that "somc did M>." Further information was not immediatcly availablc. -AP 
Weather 
Partlycloudytodayand not as cool. Highs in thc mid 'iOs. Partly cloudy and cool tonight, with lows in the low jOs. Mostly sunny tomorrow, with highs in the upper SOs. -AP 
Correction 
Because of a reporting error, Brother Frank Rotsaert, rector of Holy Cross Hall, was quoted incorrectly in yesterday's Observer. Rotsaert did not praise the new alcohol policy, but said, "It ap­pears to be intelligible and coherent." 
r:0JRE,f~
. rmt)lli_'.. ~i_.BJ·a 
. ~!;()OTI)All•. W~.D.' 
------PURDUE --­
September • •• '84 Hoosier 1"\· ~~ o\\'t_.tonapolis 14l''S';,er person 
-MICHIGAN STATE~ 
September 15, 1964 East Lans~ng. Michigan 
14800 pet person
!••.........,..,..,... .......,..,......,,oi/1/IMJ 
___...MISSOURI......,........,....._ 
September 26· 30. 1964 Columbia, MISsouri 
1199"" per person • 
-LOUISIANA STATE........._ UNIVERSITV & World's Fair October 1'3-1'6. 1984 New Orleons and Baton Rouge 172000 per person • 
-LOUISIANA STATE ............... UNIVERSITV 
October 26-26. 1964 New Orleans and Baton Rouge 14 7200 per person • 
----NAVY-. --. 
November 2-4. 1964 Glonts Stodtum. New Jersey Weekend In New lb<k City 
1399"" per person • 
---·-UNIVERSITV OF............_ SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
November 113-118. 1964 Los Angele<. Cohlomlo and Including 4 d01,15 In Los Vegas (No Home lelevlSKJO) 
1669"" per person • eOM confirm ___ re~rvot•ons for· 
]*"••rmm.~~ 0,.._••0om.ISUC6~l
~ INol:r• O~YM·~M 0 NcM•• Otwt.r lSU (3 doyll cbt,.onilll ONot••DcwocNcM,r 
L)Notr•Dome Mlrhlg!VI'it ONol••f>f-l.JS( 
O~r•~MI,_., lr:.V~ 
~ pet f*SDn k enclosed 
-. fuM~ pel penon ~loMd 
"Dol..blt.O.rlJPO"(\\ 
Vt.o(ord• ___ .E.opir•'S
I 

~•Cad• --~
r=:I --­
(lfy~r:v:.tllp ---·-----­
'·'~---­
SPKIAlOUtA An.nd Po\.1' ~ ond ,...• ..,. o IOIJ'II, Wool Notr• Oor.,. 'ilo11urn 8Jcn..t 
~---1 
~source ~Travel 
PO. BoK 1602 
South Bend. Indiana 46634 • 12!!!) 236-2656 

The Observer 
The Observer ( !'~1'!-o W'J l··tOOO) b puhli:"<~ohc.:c.J ~1onday rhroul(h l·riday ;md on IHJOH.: fouthall ~ ..uurday~. c.·xct·pt durin~ c.·xam and \'oKation pcriol.l~. The Observer b puhli~hc.·d h) the.· studc.·nts of rhc.· I niH·r!'!Uy ol Nturt· Dame..· and Saint Mar} '!too <ollq~c.: Suhs4.:ripliun~ llla) ht.' pun:ha'tc..'d for Sl'; pc.·r } t.·ar ( !i 1c; (XT 'emc:su·r) h~ writing The Observer, P 0 Box(,}. ~ouc.· Dame. Indiana ~(lc;c;(l. 
The Obst·rver i~ ;a mt.·mhc:rc,fThe As­sociated Press. All rc._·prodw.:lion rit.:.hl~ 
arc fl'.'tl"r\'t·d 
RCA VIDEO CASSETTE PI.AftR 
South Bend North 51400 U.S. 31 N. Clocktower Square 277-8872 




Student apathy may be over, but cause on unsure footing 
Student governmcnt is on the verge of a great 
mistake. Student Body Presid~nt Rob Bertino, in drink­
ing a can ofbeer in front ofthe Administration Building 
yestcrday, signalled the start of what might be a battle 
which no stud~nts could win. 

With great bravado. B~rtino openly defied ~xisting 
University alcohol policies in a seeming effort to stir the 
2500 students gathered in front of the Dome. Such a 
token act of defiance, howev~r. may hav~ unf(>res~en 
implications. 

If other students also confront administration policy with disrespect, not firm commitments to drink respon­sibly, undoubtedly they will lose. 
Notre Dame administrators, protected hy many jour­nalists who virtually idolize University Presid~nt Father Theodore Hesburgh, arc ably armed to coum~r any such "politics ofdisrespect." 
It would take only one statement to thc press from Hesburgh to convince the nation that Notre Dame stu­dcnts are no morc than spoilcd brats and that ad­ministrators arc scltless sur­rogate parents worried that students might turn into al­coholics. 
Thc media have grabbcd thc confrontation by its hottlc neck -allthre~ local television stations carried reports on the student storming of the Dome. 
The coverage was nor ex­actly complimentary to the students' causc. But then again, why should it he. After all, Notre Dame students' last protest was over Cap'n Crunch cereal. rui;,. 
Though many students 

would like to think their ral-Is black back to stay? could use it to accomplish 
Paul McGinn Ins de Thursday 

her will convinc~ administrators or the media that stu­dents can drink responsibly. 
• Students should immerse themselves in the specifics ofthe alcoholpoliLy statements. 
Student sp~akers should distinguish between th~ wording of thc 18-page section on the findings and background information in the "Final Report ofthe lhi­versity Committcc on the Responsible Use ofAlcohol," the I 0-pagc recommendation s~ction of that report, and Dean ofStudentsJames Rocmer's alcohol directive. Though students should have specific gripes ahout th~ alcohol committee's rccomm~ndations and the wording of the Rocmcr directive, they should sup­fully the lcgal and moral of undcrage rinking, public drunken­and alcohol-rclatcd in-
on bow/be administration reacts to theirprotests. 
Bclicve it or not, one day this controversy will die down. But others will arise. Concerned studcnts, having realized new-found strength through demonstration, 
ly yest~rday r~sembled building takeovers at Columbia Univ~rsity in April 1968, most of Michiana saw a bunch ofchildren whining for a supposed right to get drunk 
Whil~ those students at Columbia may not have b~en all that altruistic in their opposition to th~ \ktnam War (their own lives were at stake), they w~re pro~~sting a policy infinitely more serious than an alcohol directiv~. 
Assuming studcnt leaders can salvage their image as 
r~sponsible negotiators, they might do well to follow a 
few tips: 

•Students should avoid expressions which orz~y incite students but which display a less than reflective at­titude about drinking. 
llertino, Student Body Vice President Cathy David, former Stud~nt Senator Dave McAvoy and others who make speeches should not rely on slogans or jingles, but upon th~ actual implications of the alcohol policy. 
Demonstrating students, lik~wise, should shun shouting "Let's get drunk" or drinking in public. N~it­other goals: 
To correct th~ disparity between the llnivcrsity's media image as a defender of human rights and the ac­tual working conditions ofits office, dining hall and dor­mitory employe~s. 
To voice disapproval with University acceptance of military res~arch contracts. To dir~ct attcntit>n to' tht-lack· of women and minority students and faculty members at Notr~ Dame. 
To improve relations h~tween m~mhcrs of the op­posit~ sex at Notre Dame by promoting coeducational dormitories. ~ 
To provide input to the academic process -inclut· ing examination, writing and research procedures. To advise administrators and trustees about inve. ­ment polici~s of the University. 
Whatever the outcome of the controv~rsy, students now r~alize that hy coming togethcr they can makead­ministrators and thc public take notic~. And that, in it­~lf, is a victory. 

Thursday, Friday, Saturday 
This special edition ofThe 
Happy Hour 3-8
Observer is the last issue ofthe 
newspaper before Easter Break. 
Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 
Publication will resume on Wednesday, April 25. 


HIGHER 
OVERNIGHT & 3 DAY RENTALS .,;,_ AVAILABLE PLUS 1::2-, · ­filii'-100's OF MOVIES ':...z::j 
Irish Pitchers $2 Sign-ups tor Corby Open Golf Tourney 

and Sunshine Promotions 

JON ANDERS.ON CHRIS !.QUIRE AlANWHITf TONY I(AYI! 
Thursday, April 26 7:30P.M. Notre Dame A.C.C. All Seats Reserved $12.50 
Ticket~-on· ;ale at the A.C. C. Box Office. Sears (University Park Mall, Elkhart and Michigan City). Robertson's (South Bend, Town and Country and Concord Mall). Elkhart Truth. J.R.'s Music Shop (LaPorte). St. Joseph Bank (Main Office). World Record (Goshen) . Mt.:1slc Magic (Benton Harbor) and Karma Records (Ft. Wayne). 
I 
I 
r 


~i~~~_()__i_ll___t__________________
Th-ur-sd-ay-,A-pr-il-19,-19-84--p-age-3 
The protests are for more than just beer 
Dean of Students James Roemer thinks Notre ceive this issue as merely a fight for Michelob, making it? Will it take more than 10 months to Dame students have a "sense-of humor." What a whi-sky and gin. Beer cans hoisted high above the complete, as did the alcohol policy? Major im­great joke ... demonstrating in the Administration crowd made for great television shots, but they provements in this area seem at least a year away, Building and chanting clever phrases. But to us, it's also helped to downplay the real reason for the but the restrictions will take effect in August. not a laughing matter. Convincing everyone else of protest. Father William Beauchamp maintains that the that fact will be the most difficult task we'll face. The issue is not purely the right to drink alcohol issue is closed; no appeal will be accepted. After 
The first battle was won yesterday at the Ad­on campus. The issue here is a social life that · spending all that time studying the issue, he has no ministration Building. Local and national media depends so much on alcohol that it will die with-desire to reopen debate. But the students must not picked up the story of students in protest, and out it. With the restrictions, students believe -let such wishful thinking deter their protest effort. those working in the normally staid Dome found it and are trying to convince the administration -Beauchamp's statements and threats of a dry hard to ignore the shouts ofmore than 2,000 angry that Notre Dame will be a very boringplace to live. campus are coming from persons who are clearly students. The point was made -the alcohol policy The alcohol committee has put the cart before worried. is unreasonable and we will not succumb. the Clydesdale by cutting off alcohol-based We always can appeal; we must maintain the 
,The yelling, the shouting and the demonstra­socializing before providing any alternatives. The momentum while making sure that the cause is tions are coming from a student body that is tired student center is inadequate, and administration true. Do not be placated by changes designed to and finally has risen to say, "Enough." Crackdowns officials are themselves inebriated if they believe a resemble major concessions, such as allowing bars in all areas ofstudent life have made a mockery of revamped Oak Room or another play or two will or larger groups in rooms. the administration's claim of providing ftll the social void. The policy itself is flawed, and the sooner the "responsible living." Does every new rule really The alcohol committee admits as much. Its administration realizes that the protests are not help preserve the Catholic nature ofthis place? We report states that the effectiveness of the recom-about cans ofStroh's, the sooner the two sides ear­see such reasoning as quite lame. mended alcohol policy is contingent upon the im-nestly can work out a solution. 
Yet, after watching the news coverage yester­plementation of "a comprehensive plan for social 
-The Observer 

day, we are concerned that many people will per-lif~ on this campus." Where is this plan? Who is 
...
P. 0. BoxQ 
by administrative policies (and the alcohol policy is just one ofthem), but this nation and
Deprived a choice 
the world are full ofcomplex problems. 
DearEditor: 

Cynicism is the number one enemy that Morality simply is something which cannot needs to be avoided, especially now. Instead be dictated. It must be acquired by those who of falling prey to cynicism, fight it. Stop and 
hold it. 

reflect on the positive assets of Notre Dame When I came here last fall, I had the oppor­and how Notre Dame has changed your life to 
tunity to acquire my own morality. I was free your advantage. to make my own decision concerning drink­Rather than dwelling. passively on the ing. I chose, of my own free will, not to drink. problems here, like this absurd alcohol policy,. 
Making my decision in this manner makes. my fight to change what you don't like, what you cho.ice so much more genuine. It was the right see as detrimental to the Notre Dame com­dn-'ision for me. However, I really wonder if munity. And if the problems remain, then the{ same will hold for those future students remember the good things at Notre Dame, him. You know, the ownerasks an outrageous­coho! problem under the:pt:overbial carpe~ who will be deprived a chioce. ly high price for the beard, and Brian is
especially the students here. The administra­By restricting drinking w the extent that they
supposed to offer a ridiculously low price.
We have been robbed of many our rights. tion and its alcohol policy are not Notre have done, they have superficially "restored" 
Then, the two hagglers come to some com­
For~most is the rule which limits the number Dame. We are Notre Dame and we do not the pristine image ofNotre:Q;~.me. ofpersons we will be permitted to have in our "suck." promise price where both give up a little The problem has not tieen eliminated. In rooms, regardless ofwhether there is alcohol Diane Yoder ground. The lesson to be learned here is that fact, it has not even been addressed. The the person in control, the owner ofthe beard,
or not! Such a rule is an abomination. junior "social drinker" with no ptoblem can now Let's face it, the social life is not fit for always asks for much more than he really 
look forward to imbibing behind closed humans. There are only two non-studying ac­Solidarity forever doors, indistinguishable from the true al­
wants so that the naive buyer will feel he has tivities from which one can choose on the won a moral victory when, in actuality, he is coholic. The truth is the students will con­
DearEditor:
weekends. The first option is partying, which paying exactly what the owner originally tinue to drink. Unfortunately, theHooray, Notre Dame students have finally 
wanted.

the alcohol policy eliminated. The second is administration sees this type ofstatement as a done it. Yes, they have finally shed their com­
playing such games as "Trivial Pursuits." Now, the administration is not stupid. threat rather than as the reality that is.
placent image and rebelled against the p;ttriar­
However, with the restrictions on the number Father Beauchamp and his committee knew I think it is noble for Fr. Beauchamp. and thechal authority of the administration. It's
of rooms, this option is not even an al­we would be upset by the new alcohol policy Board ofTrustees to try to cure a society-widerefreshing to know that the students have
ternative. and would demand it be rescinded. So, in the problem by restricting alcohol use on thisjoined hands for such a noble cause.
Though I do not drink, I plan to take action. spirit of the ancient art of haggling, the ad­campus, but because the problem permeatesNever mind the injustice of South African
We are adults and we demand the administra­ministration has added a few ridiculous ar­society at all levels it is unrealistic. The blatantapartheid or the precarious nature of the
tion treat us as such. ticles to the policy with the intention of hypocrisy of the administration is that theyescalating nuclear arms race or even the conceding them in a show of"rationality' and
Nick Mathiousdakis call us intelligent adults (most from the top
simple inhumanity ofstarving Appalachian in­
"benevolence."

Freshman 10/ of our high school classes. outstanding
fants; somehow these issues don't seem real to The first signs of this basic policy-making boards, etc.), yet continue to establish rulesthe average Notre Dame student -they, after maneuver appeared in the April 18th issue of and regulations in an authoritarian manner.

We are Notre Dame 
all, don't directly affect him. 
The Observer, in a statement by Dean ofStu­
As intelligent and responsible adults it isBut alcohol, dammit, that's something to dentsJames Roemer who said the administra­
DearEditor: our unalienable right to discuss such matters
get riled up about. Hang the posters, christen tion is willing to negotiate on some points (all
As a student vehemently opposed to the al­in the open and to have the power to affect
the rallies, heighten the rhetoric and raise al­
minor).

cohol policy and the administration's con­them. The administration, however, dis­
mighty hell! The administration can take away The message: Don't let yourself be intox­agrees.
stant attempt to eliminate student freedom our senior exemptions, threaten to close icated by small victories over insignificant
and rights, I participated in yesterday's The University is now safe from lawsuits
down our foodsales, and expel naughty stu­issues which the administration has inserted
noontime rally under the Dome. Two phrases stemming from alcohol-related accidents, for
dents for breaking parietals. But try to curb into the alcohol policy as a diversion. Remem­
the crowd yelled, "Go to hell Roemer" and they have condemned and restricted drink­
our alcohol consumption -never! 
ber, too, that the administration is most afraid
"This place sucks," upset me very much. ing. What they fail to realize is that they have
The rights ofthe Notre Dame student·are in of damaging its reputation as a rational, con­
This is a Christian institution which pur­indirectly condoned both closet drinking and
periL Join hands with your neighbor in al­
cerned body of adults and they will do their
ports Christian ethics, and many of us are nighttime driving to and from off-campus
cohol solidarity. Burn your bras women; best to place the burden ofirrationality on the parties with the intoxicated "problemChristians striving to live ethically. Christ in­gentlemen, set ftre to your jocks. Send the ad­"hot-headed" student body. They will tell us drinkers" sharing the road.
tended us to love our enemies as He loves us. 
ministration a signal they'll never forget. 
(and more importantly, they will tell the The University also sees itself as safe from Roemer and the administration may be our Invite the media to our protests, shuttle in the press) that they are willing to give a little ifthe
enemies right now, but wishing them to hell is student protest, for we have no real power. It
cameras. Indeed, show the authorities ­
students will give a little as welL 

an immoral contradiction of the Christian et­should be interesting, however, to watch if
show the world -that what really matters to So let's haggle a little. The administration
hics we reconfirm every time we pray to God the future alumni of Notre Dame retaliate
the Notre Dame student ofthe '80s is the ever wants their policy implemented in toto, and
or call ourselves Christians. when it comes time for donations to our alma
important issue ofalcohoL we? Well, we want every right we have now, mater.
No matter what they try to take away from 
PeterA. Graham 
plus the legalization ofkegs on campus.
us or how oppressed we may become, we In response to outside pressures of legal
Senior 

But don't worry, Father. Who knows, we
need to stand stronger than ever behind our liability as well as their need to see the "Notre 
may even give in on the kegs.

morals and beliefs, especially in the face ofthe Dame image" restored, Fr. Beauchamp, et a!., 
Philip Allen
administration and its alcohol policy. Don't be intoxicated have effectively sidestepped the entire 
junior
The second chant is a phrase which many of DearEditor: problem. The irony ofthe situation is that the us have utterql more than a few times. Notre , A In Monty Python's "Life ofBrian," th(lre is a administration sincerely believes that what it

How wrong they are 
Dame is not the paradise or perfect place the scene in which Brian, in a frenzied attempt to has done is in the best interests of everyone administration ostensibly aspires it to be, but escape the Roman centurians, stops at a stall DearEditor: involved. How wrong they are. Notre Dame does not "suck." It has many to buy a fake beard. The proprietor refuses to I would like to publicly congratulate the ad­Charles D. Beretz problems which are continually exacerbated sell Brian the beard until Brian "haggles" with ministration for successfully sweeping the a!-Freshman 


The Observer Thursday, Aprill9, 1984-page4 
SOME COURSES IMPROVE SCORES-. 

Beauchamp downplays protest 
WE IMPROVE .•..•.. 
COMPILED BY OBSERVER who made an appearance at the "No one on the committee is ad­
STUDENTS. TOO! 
STAFF REPORTERS protest, said he is very willing to talk verse to talking with students. I do 
·······+·· 
about the directives. "I'd be glad to think it's better done in small 
·•· .. 
BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
GMAT & LSAT LIVE CLASSES 
....: ....~ 
• TEST-N-TAPE® LIBRARY1

• REINFORCEMENT TEST • HOMESTUDY PACKET 
Pr_eparation for summer exams CALL NOW 
-~·-·-'1­
~~flrtl-+1 Clll ~.henlngs &W..kends 
.,,. •. 272-4135 
IIV'I 1717 E. South Bend Ave EDUCATIONAL 
CENTER 
TEST PR SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 



r--------------------------,
I NOTICE I
IStudents, faculty, and etc., male or female-I 1 we can start you in your own janitorial 
1

I business for only $9.95, part time or full time. I 
I *no more summer jobs I 1 *no more minimum wage I I •make $8-$15 an hour I
I 

*have clients immediately I 1 For more information, send replies to: I SunBelt Services 
I 

213 South Lovell Rd. 1 Chatanooga, Tennessee 37411 
~------------------------­
Casual Comfort From 48 
loo\ 
~ 
ONLY 
$7.50 
Available in: Leather or leather/canvas combination Sizes 5 -1 0 (Even sizes only, size 9 
available in leather/canvas combi­nation only) 
Goodwill Plaza Eddy and Howard Sts. (Across from Nickies) 
Mon-Thurs 9-7 Fri 9-8 Sat 9-6 
-------------------------------------------..........11 


U+IAUL: 
Everything formoving &towing 
• 
OPlN & VAN TRAILERS-All SIZES • CAR-TOP CARRIERS • BOXES 

• 
TRUCKS-7 TO 24' • PACKING,LOADING &UNLOADING 

• 
TRAVEL TRAILERS•CAR TRANSPORTS • FREE GUIDE • 24-HR. ROAD SERVICE 

• 
TOW BARS • FWD TOW DOLLIES • HITCfiES; WE RENT, SEll, INSTALL 

• 
HAND TRUCKS • FURNITURE PADS • U-S TORE ROOMS • MAIL BOXES 


LOW RATES I ONE-WAY & LOCAL RENTALS ,.,..,_,..,.. ) IJ.S.,CANADA & AL.ASKA • ::£ 
SOUTH BEND 

1120 S. Michigan ............. 287-6533 3410 Western Ave............. 282-2801 
I~----------------------------, 
~ I Enjoy Barc~lay's
CLIP CLIP
COUPON FILET MIGNON COUPON
&SAVE JJ 

(REG. 8.95-WITH COUPON 5.95) &SAVE 13 OR 
STUFFED FILETMIGNON 
WRAPPED IN BACON AND TOPP£D WITH SAUTEED MUSHROOMS 
(REG. 9.95-WITH COUPON 6.95) 
Each entree includes a bot­tomless tureen of soup, baked bread and your choice of baked potato, home fries or rice mason. 
OUR REGULAR MENU IS ALSO AVAILABLE 
52885 U.S. 31 North, South Bend 

----------~------------------~ 
groups," said Tyson. 

He characterized yesterday's noontime protest as "not vindictive or nasty .. .I see this issue as one of strong disagreement rather than one ofhysteria." 
Alcohol 
continuedfrom page 1 

He concluded: "We want the op­
portunity-choose for ourselves how 
we are going to direct our social 
lives here at Notre Dame. This is 
what we need. This is what we 
demand. And this is what we will 
get." 

The program ofspeakers over. the 
students near the front of the bleps 
began to chant, "Let's go in." Soon 
the group began to move up the 
stairs and through the tall oak doors 
of the Administration Building. 
Cathy David said this action was not 
planned by the rally organizers. 
The protestors quickly filled the top three levels of the building. Ripped copies of the alcohol report and other papers were dropped from the upper levels to the rotunda floor. Cans of beer crashed to the floor from above while shouts and chants echoed off the buildings walls. The floor sagged under the weight of the students, and office workers stepped into the corridor to see what was happpening. 
Roemer stepped out of his office 
on the third floor and went to the 
balcony rail. Between bursts of 
shouting, Roemer spoke to the 
crowd, "I appreciate the fact that 
you all had a sense of humor. May I 
say one thing? I think one point I'd 
like to make is when you jump on 
these floors, you may find that 
they're going to come down." 

At this point the students began jumping up and down. Roemer con­tinued. "I suppose there's no real ability to be able to dialogue in a group," but he was interrupteq by noise. I 
A voice from the upper floor yelled, "Let him speak." 
To this Roemer replied, "'lbank 
you. May I say that your student 
government; we arc planning oppor­
tunities to talk to you about the 
issues." The crowd roared, and 
Roemer turned and walked towards 
his office. 

After the encounter, Roemer said. "This last part is a little bit of a con­cern because of the safety in the building. When all the secretaries and people in the building, they're quite concerned what's happening. It becomes a little bit of a problem. 
You're always worried about whether things could get out of hand in a closed situation. The part that was outside was tine, and thl' inside part becomes more of a con­cern." 
When questioned about the representation of students within the committe that wrote the alcohol proposal, Roemer replied, "There's student representation right from the beginning on the council. There were two people -people elected by you that were on the committee all the way. Now it so happens they're saying they didn't agree, hut there was student representation all the way and there will be student in­volvement through the O.C from here on in." 
Director of Notre Dame Security Glenn Terry, who attended the rally in plain clothes, as did other security officers. said hl' confiscated two bottles ofliquor at the rally. He com­mented, "We'll be wherever we feel we arc needed. If we know in ad­vanoc of any protest we will have someone nearby." 
He added there were no special· orders and that security would operate in its usual capacity. 
The crowd dispersed at I 2:4S p.m. 
Yesterday's noontime alcohol policy protest at the Administration Building drew mixed reactions from administrators. 
Father William Beauchamp, chair­man of the alcohol committee said the protest had no constructive purpose and exhibited a "herd men­tality." Beauchamp, who was in a meeting during the protest, said he had heard reports ofthe outdoor ral­ly and indoor demonstration, but did not "anticipate students trashing the Administration Building." 
Officials had expected some stu­dent response but Beauchamp ques­tioned student motives. ''I'm not really sure what the students expect (from the rallies) except voicing their disapproval." 
According to Beauchamp, the policy recommended by the com­mittee's report will not change, but the directives that implement that policy can be discussed. 
Dean of Students James Roemer, 

meet with any small groups. There is 
absolutely no way to communicate 
with a large group like that," he said, 
referring to yesterday's protest. 
Roemer characterized the rally on the front steps as "an impressive number and an impressive display of students. They handled themselves weill." He expressed concern that the students had moved inside the building and said that was the reason he spoke to the crowd. 
"A lot of emotional issues can be resolved at least partially," said Roemer. "I don't mean to imply anybody is going to back offfrom the committee's report." Roemer urged student groups to approach him with proposals to modify the directives. 
Father David Tyson, a member of the alcohol committee, also indi­cated that the committee policy would not change. "But no appeal doesn't mean that it can't be dis­cussed," said Tyson. 





