Hart landslide -page2 

Vol. XVIIl No. 101 the indt:pl·mknt ~tudent new~papcr ~lT\ ing notn dame and 'aint mary·~ Wednesday, March 7, 1984 

Architects in waiting 

Carl Wiggins sketches the layout site of an architec­tural site in the Northeast side of Chicago for a pro-

Gilligan named to O'Malley chair 
Special to The Observer 
John Gilligan, former governor of Ohio and the Thomas and Alber­ta White professor of law at Notre Dame, will leave the White Chair to become Francis J. O'Malley Pro­fessor and special assistant for public policy to Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president. He will also continue to teach in the Law School. 
The Francis J. O'Malley Univer­sity Chair, of which Gilligan will be the first occupant, was established last year by an anonymous donor to memorialize the English pro­fessor. O'Malley died in 1974 after 42 years at Notre Dame. Gilligan was at one time a student of O'Malley's. 
O'Malley specialized in the rela­tionship between religious belief and literary imagination. One of the requirements of the O'Malley Chair is that the occupant teach onerone class in the Freshman Writing Program each semester. Gilligan, who formerly taught English literature for five years at Cincinnati's Xavier University, will do so beginning next fall. 
Gilligan graduated from Notre Dame in 1942, and was awarded a Silver Star for gallantry during the battle of Okinawa while serving as a gunnery officer in the Navy dur­ing World War II. 
In 1947, he received a master's degree in English literature from the University of Cincinnati. 
Between 1953 and 1963 he was six times elected to the Cincinnati City Council and became national­ly known for his work in urban renewal and neighborhood organization. He was elected to the 
U.S. House of Representatives in 1964 and then to the Ohio gover­norship in 1970. 
Appointed a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in 1975, he was later that year named administrator of the Agency for International Develoment by President Carter. He was appointed to the Thomas 

OC, class officer candidates advance to runoffs today 
Runoff elections today will determine the sophomore and senior class officers and the off­campus commissioner. 
Richard Ruehlmann won the junior class presidency outright Monday with 52.9 percent of the 1 vote. Candidates must win more than 50 percent of the first vote to win the election without a runoff. 
Next year's seniors will choose between John Decker and Dean Chrsity for senior class president. Joining Decker on the "Mob" ticket are Jim Gibbons, Dave Minion and Brian Potasiewicz. Christy's runn­ing mates are Ward Fitzgerald, Pat­ty Cisle and Rich Irwin. 
Decker won Monday's preliminary election with 26 per­cent of the vote; Christy finished second with 24.4 percent. 
In the race for sophomore class president, James Domagalski will compete against Jeff Martello. Domagalski overwhelmingly won Monday's election with 39.1 per­cent in a nine-ticket race. Martello received 12.4 percent of the vote. 
Running with Domagalski are Anne Jennings, Mark Foley and David Miklos. Martello's running mates are Joan Harvath, John Libert and Angela Adams. 
Students living off-campus next year will choose between Doug Honeywell, who received 30.1 per­cent of the vote Monday, and Jim Hagan, who received 24.6 percent. 
Voting will take place during meal hours in the residence halls. Off-campus undergraduates can vote between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center. 

and Alberta White Chair of Law at Notre Dame in 1979. 
There are now 54 endowed chairs at Notre Dame, 25 of them oc­cupied. There are 17 chairs fully funded but not yet filled, and 12 others established and in the pro­cess of being fully funded. 



ND officials bar rival CPA course from Morris Inn 
By TERRY BLAND 
News Staff 
OFFICIALS OF THE University forced Conviser-Miller's CPA review sessions off campus so the company's class could not compete directly with Notre Dame's own review course, according to Rick Duffy, an instructor with the Chicago-based firm. 
Duffy said Conviser· Miller reserved a room at the Morris Inn this semester under the name of Harcourt-Brace, the parent name of the firm. "We did reserve the room under the name of Harcourt­Brace," said Duffy, "but we did tell them that we were a CPA (Certified Public Accountant) review course." Duffy said Conviser-Miller reserv­ed a room at the Morris Inn this semester under the name of Harcourt-Brace, the parent com­pany of the firm. "We did reserve the room under the name of Harcourt-Brace," said Duffy, "but we did tell them that we were a CPA (Certified Public Accountant) review course." 
When Conviser-Miller arrived at the Morris Inn intending to get the . room for the review class, accor­ding to Duffy, a hotel employee told company officials "they were competing with another review course at the CCE and they could not have the room." 
"We thought this was pretty un­fair," said Duffy. "It was obviously an embarrasment to them." 
COnviser-Miller sent a letter in January to students taking the class informing them that the company "ran into some inconveniences" and could not hold the review class at the Morris Inn. The sessions were relocated to the Ramada Inn, 52890 U.S. 33 North. 
"They might not have had a writ­ten agreement to hold the class at the Morris Inn," said Laurel Seid, student representative for COnviser -Miller, "but they at least had aver­bal commitment." 
Assistant Director of the Center for Continuing Education, Peter Lombardo, who supervises the scheduling of classes and events in the Morris Inn, could not be reach­Qd for comment last night. 
Conviser-Miller then approached Susan Vance, a professor at Saint Mary's College, and wanted her to teach some of the sessions. Vance, however, received a letter from Notre Dame stating that she could not teach the review class or "her position would be in jeopardy." 
"The thing that struck me," said senior accounting major Oscar Osorio, "was that the pressure not 
see CPA page 3 


IBM grant slated for computer lab 
Special to The Observer 
Dr. David Cohn, a professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame, will receive $500,000 in grants and equipment from IBM to attempt to design a new type of multicomputer system. 
The equipment, consisting of an IBM 4341 mainframe computer system and a dozen IBM PC-xt/370 desktop computers, is being used to establish an on-campus personal computer laboratory on the third floor of Fitzpatrick Hall 
Cohn is attempting to devise an operating system that will expand the uses of minicomputers in a multicomputer system. 
Operating systems are currently designed to maximize the data pro­cessing capabilities of a large, mainframe computer, according to Cohn. But Cohn hopes to design a "distributed operating system" that will distribute computing tasks between a network of minicom­puters. 
"We know that with today's elec­tronics, computing is most reasonably priced when done at the desk," Cohn said. "However, the price of storing information is most reasonable at a central location. What we want to do is look at the sharing of these functions to make effective use of the available com­puting resources, storage facilities and devices such as printers. With high-speed communications added to the systtm; this will become very efficient." 
Through future developments in software that will promote this "interoperative" concept, Cohn said mainframes will be used like diskdrives, providing information to desktop computers running smaller jobs. 
Work-stations are essentially the same as mainframes with one-tenth the computing power, Cohn said. "We often use the large computers to do many small jobs. Perhaps we should distribute these jobs to the work-stations and do the work more efficiently." 
If successful, Cohn's research will pave the way for new uses of desktop computers. Eventually, he said, the machines that make up a multicomputer system will have the capability to delegate jobs among themselves just as a group of workers decides upon the most capable individual for any given task. 
Cohn said the IBM PC-XT /370s being used in the lab are ideal tools see GRANT page 3 



.-------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 


In Brief 
A woman student has lost $3,200 in federal aid for refusing to sign a "statement of compliance" with draft registra­tion. Melissa Barker, a sociology graduate student at the Universi­ty of Oregon, is challenging the federal regulation in court with two other women denied aid for the same reason. The Committee Against Registration and the Draft (CARD) is filing the suit against the Department of Education, which added the require­ment that females sign compliance forms as part of its implemen­tation of the Solomon Amendment. The Solomon Amendment re­quires males to register in order to receive financial aid. -The Observer 
The co-editor of a Harvard University 
magazine has been ordered off campus by college authorities, who discovered he was not enrolled at the school, according to the dean of students. The editor, Joe! I. Goodfader, 23, resigned Thursday from his position at the Harvard International Review, a foreign policy magazine published seven times a year, after a meeting with the dean of students, Archie E. Epps. Goodfader had been on the staff since the fall of 1982. Epps said that pretending to be a stu­dent is against Massachusettes law, and added that Goodfader "has committed a grievous act against the integrity of the universi­ty." Good fader, who says he is a graduate of Georgetown Univer­sity, said: "It's not a particularly spectacular story. I have nothing to add at this time to what has already been reported." Magazine staff members said they assumed Goodfader was a student when he joined the magazine in 1982. -AP 
A proposal to increase student activities fees by $Io to sponsor non-alcoholic events was discussed at the Hall President's Council meeting last night at Cavanaugh hall. The proposal, which originated at Monday's Student Senate meeting, pertains to dorm and class sponsored activities. Also discussed at the meeting were: a proposal allowing Student Activities Board members to be representatives of the dorms; the encouragement of students to at­tend the Mardi Gras events this weekend; and the positive response to the petition regarding the new HPC alcohol policy. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Diseases can ruin your whole day. Free im­
munization against measles, mumps, rubella and tetanus will be given at the Student Health Center today and at the Saint Mary's Health Center tomorrow from I to 4:30 p.m. Dr. James Bowes, health officer for St. joseph County, said yesterday that 78 cases of measles have been confirmed in southeastern Michigan since Jan.!, and one student at Indiana University contracted the disease, in the last two weeks. -The Observer 
Are you planning on attending the summer ses­
sion? If SO, positions are available for manager/assistant manager in the resident halls. Applications must be picked up and returned by March 9. Interviews are in process at the Student Housing Of­fice, Room 315 Adminstration Building. -The Observer 
The preregistration fee of $50 is due at the Office of Student Accounts today. Notre Dame students may drop off the deposit and the computer card at the office, Room 102 of the Ad­ministration Building. -The Observer 

Weather 
Mostly cloudy and cold today with high in the 
mid 20's. A 70 percent chance of snow and continued cold tonight and tomorrow. Snow accumulation likely. Low in teens and high around 20. -AP 
Today·~ issuc.:·was prodm..Td hy:
The Observer 
The Observer (I S~ ~99 2--1000) ;, puhlt~hnl Monday lhnnt~h Frida} .uttl on hlHllc.· foothall ~aturday!'t. l'XCt'pl durin~ c.·xam ami ,.,u.:ation pt·riod!-1 The Observer 1~ puhlt!-.ht·d hy IIll' ~ttu..knt!'llJf Ihe: I 'ni\'t·r~ll~ uf Notrt· l>anu.· and ~aint Mary·, Colk~c.· Suh~t·ription~ rna~ hl· purdJaM·d for S!~ pt·r )Tar ( $1 ~ I"'' ~t·mc.·,lc.·r) hy wririnJ( Tht• Obscnrer, P 0. Box(}. Notre l>anu·.lndaana fh~lli(l. 
The Observer ;,a nwmht·roiThe As­

~)l'iared Press. All rl·prmhu.:lion ngtn~ arc: rL'St'r\'t·d 
Wednesday, March 7, 1984 -page 2 



Gary Hart coasts to victory with 70 percent in Vermont 
Associated Press 
MONTPELIER, Vt. -Sen. Gary Hart, completing a remarkable sweep of northern New England, won a lopsided victory yesterday night in Vermont's Democratic presidential primary. He embraced in­dications of Republican crossover vote and said, "I in­tend to defeat Ronald Reagan." 
Walter Mondale lost for the third time in seven hor­rific days and looked South, saying, "New Hamp­shire, Maine has hurt. I assume Vermont will hurt." 
The victory gave Hart unmistakable momentum go­ing into delegate-rich elections next Tuesday in Massachusetts and the South. 
"If I were in the White House tonight, I would be very concerned about the Hart candidacy. He 

represents a far more significant threat to the presi­dent than does Walter Mondale," said Oliver Henkel, the winner's campaign manager. 
With 68 percent of Vermont's 264 precincts repor­ting, Hart had 27,068 votes, or 71 percent, to Moo­dale's 7,444 votes and 20 percent. 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson, who had 3,190 for 8 per­cent, awaited the final returns with interest -without 10 percent of the vote he stood to lose federal mat­ching funds in 30 days. 
President Reagan had 16,055 votes in the un­contested GOP election. 
A CBS news poll indicated Hart drew support from voters under 30 years old by an 8-1 margin. He also was outdrawing Mondale among elderly voters by 2-1 and he won the union vote. 
Hart said he got support from Republicans and in­dependents as well as from Democrats, commenting, "This campaign does have a chance to reach out beyond the Democratic Pary, to expand the frontiers 
of our party and expand the electoral base of our par­ty." 
Vermont's open primary allows residents to vote in 
the primary of their choice, and history has shown 
that voters tend to go where the action is. In I 980, 62 
percent of the voters cast GOP ballots. This year the 
tally showed more than 65 percent of the voters cast 
Democratic ballots. 
Mondale, in Florida, said he would now focus on 
the South, adding, "We were really not contesting 
Vermont. We spent little or no money there...this 
was one we just couldn't afford to be in." 
The Mondale campaign, once confident here, was 
hoping for, but not predicting, a win. No delegates 
were at stake, but Mondale wanted to stem the 
momentum of Hart upsets in New Hampshire and 
Maine. Vermont party officials say those victories 
created a snowball effect in Hart's favor. 
Most Vermont communities turned town meetings 
into a showcase for the primary. In many, citizens 
also voted on local matters. 
Hart's state campaign coordinator was confidant, but stopped just short of predicting vict9ry~ while dissension erupted in the Mondale camp after one aide predicted defeat for the former vice president. 
Jackson once was expected to get much support he~e. but it seemed to wane when he stalled in New Hampshire and with Hart's surging candidacy. 
The civil rights leader faced a cash problem if he fell into single digits as in New Hampshire. Candidates getting under 10 percent in two successive primaries are cut off from the federal matching money unless they win more than 2 percent in a later primary. 
Reubin Askew, who withdrew from the race last week, was also on the Democratic ballot. Alone on the Republican ballot was President Reagan. 
Delegate selection will not begin until April 24, when towns hold caucuses to pick delegates at the state convention. Vermont sends I 7 delegates to the Democratic convention and 19 to the GOP conven­tion. 
The outcome here had been difficult to predict because no reliable polls were taken and because of an open primary system that allows Republicans to vote for Democratic candidates. 
Hart made a much stronger effort than Mondale to win the primary, which would add fuel to a caijlpaign that caught fire Feb. 28 in New Hampshire. He visited Vermont six times last summer, overshadowin¥ Moo­dale's two brief appearances. Mondale lined up early endorsements from the state's most prominent Democrats. 


IO~TACOBAR 
Sun. -Thurs. 9pm -close 
Late Night Happy Hour 
Sun. -Thurs. 1Opm -close 

$1.00 MARGARITAS 2 for 1 BARDRINKS 
(five minute• &om c:ampa•) 

Bring this ad and get a Free Taco 

This is not a misprint 

Editorial Board 
Editor-in·Cbief...............................David Dziedzic Depa.t1Inent Managers Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe I' (I. /lox <J..\'otre I )ame. /,\' ·16'i 'j(J ( 21 ')) 239-'ijOj Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn 11usiness Manager .......... ....... Christopher Owen 
1be <lhsert•t•r h the inucpcmknl newspaper puhlhhnl by the ~ludents of the I 'ni­News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide Controller................ .... Alex Szilva~ versil~ of Notrl' Daml· du Lil" and '-ainl :\l.iry's College II dot·s nor lll"lTSsaril\ rdkct Neu•sEditor.................................... Mack Worscheh .·ldt't'l"fising .Wmwger.... ............ Jeanie Poole rlw policks of thl· adminbtr;ttiun of either in~titution. The nnn b reported as ac­Saint Mary's Edilor..................Anne Monastyrski (irntlation Man~ger.. . .. Mark :\liotto nlratl"ly and a~ ohjl·ctivt"!~ ;1.' po~sibll· l ·n~ignnl editorials rt·pre~elll the opinon of a Sports Edttor ..................~ ............. M'~ft!ltilrSullivan ~)'SII'ms .Hmwger... . .Kevin \X' illiams majorit~ of tht· Editorial Board. <:omnwnraril"s. kuns. and the ln~ide <:olumn prcsl·nt Viewpoint Editor................................Keith Picher the ,.il·ws ofrhl"ir author~.< :olumn ~pan· is available to allmcmher~ ofrhe community. leutures F:'ditor.. .... Sarah llamillon 
Founded November 3, 1966 

and the frt"l" l"xpression ofvar\"ing opiniuns on campus. through kller~. is l"IKouragt·u. Photo f:'ditor. . ........... Scott Bo\\ cr 
-------------------------------------------------------------------1 


I 
L 
The Observer Wednesday, March 7, 1984 -page 3 

What Does the Student Union Recqrd Store· Have in Store for Me 
CHEAPER PRICES...Sa,.l4-1l•f!t1Sfpnces! 
MOST CURRENT SINGLES-!'6.5orcompurear 
S8.9911Sf) 
CUT-OUTS... 11 98-15.98 
GREATSELECTION... sprm116mm. Fo,etber,, s,.,.;, Nicks, ChnstopherCross. Mood_vBlue.~. Pat Renatar, Journey and many, many more... ALSO... recarded and blank rapes available. CONVENIENCE... TheNDSU RecordSIWeis/U<·ared 
on the Mum Floor ofLuForrune. 

Plus-urdered albums toke only onf! week 10 urnve.' 

"MEET YOUR MAJOR" Sophomores and undeclared 
TODAY 

Department  Room  Time  
Economics Education Government Communication/ Hedia Studies I  Koom Room Room Loft, O'Shaq  104, O'Shag 303, Cushing 204, O'Shag  4:30-5:30 P~1 4:30-5:30 PM 5:30-6:30 PM 6:30-7:30 PM  


)J  
THIS WEDNESDAY ONLY BRUNO will deliver a 16" pizza with 1 topping for only $5.95 Each additional topping $1.00 extra  
Order 2--$1 offtotalprice Order 3--$2 offtotal price 4 or more--$3 offtotalprice  
Mon -Thurs 4!'10PM  Fri -Sat UntilllPM 217-4519  277-4519 OPEN SUNDAY 4-10  

SPECIAL RATES AVAILABLE FOR SPRING BREAK 
Must book 7 day in advance Call the airport 234-3712 for information 

See us for all ofyour car related needs. 
WHERE WIMERS lENT. 
--RTZ MNT$FOif:I$NIDCI'fHEII FINE'CAAS . 
•



Observer announces promotions
I 
The Observer announced yester­day the appointment of 12 students to the 1984-85 general board of the newspaper. 
Margaret Fosmoe, from Kalam­zoo, Mich., will serve as executive editor and will be in charge of the content and style of the newspaper. Fosmoe is managing editor of The Observer this year and served as Saint Mary's editor two years ago. 
The two news editors will be Sarah Hamilton, from Scotch Plains, N.J., and Dan Mc­Cullough, from Oak Lawn, Ill. Hamilton is features editor of the paper this year and McCullough serves as assitant news editor and ~enior staff reporter. 
Mike Sullivan, from Timonium, 
CPA 
continuedfrom page 1 
to teach the class extended all the 
way to Saint Mary's." 
According to Seid and NDAA President Brian Kiernan, there was a "lack of integrity" on both sides. According to Seid, Lombardo said the University did not want the competition under the same roof. 
r­
~,~unnwu ,.,_lnnm 
I 
' 
Md., will return next year as sports editor. 
Anne Monastyrski, from Whiting, Ind., will return next year as Saint Mary's editor. 
Viewpoint editor will be David Grote, from Cincinnati. Grote serves as chief day editor and librarian this year. 
Pete Laches, from Plainview, N.Y., has been promoted from assitant photo editor to photo editor. 
Features editor will be Mary Healy, from Westport, Conn. Hea­ly is assit'ant features editor and assitant news editor this year. 
The rest of the general board in­cludes the four department managers who do not serve on the editorial board. 
Kevin Williams, from Grand-
The CPA review course is taken by most senior accounting majors to review their four years of classes before the CPA exam. Both Notre Dame's and Conviser-Miller's courses cost about $350. Conviser­Miller allows students to retake the course free of charge if they fail the exam. Notre Dame charges 50 per­cent of the original cost. About 90 percent of the students nationwide fail the exam their first time. 
Notre Dame at one time offered 
~H£0LOGYs 
mtE.t YOUtt maJO~ 

Thursday, March 8 5:30-6:30PM Room 331 O'Shaughnessy REFRESHMENTS  


Come and discuss possibilities: 
The Major in Theology The Double-Major in Theo~gy A Minor in Theology 
Forfurther information: Room 330 O'Shaughnessy 
~..r~~..r..r~J""..r~..r..r..r...c,
;,) ~ SENIORS 
~·1• ~ 
tl .,~ i ~~,\·,~ >~~~'!... ~ The Time Has Finally Come!
8~ -d ffi~"..-~ \. S
8 ~-\-----~ enior Formal Bids
§ Go On Sale Today 
I 8 
Available 4:30-6:30 at 
LaFortune and Lemans 
March 7-9, 12-14, 26-30 
I L 'bodiON "" GetYoursToday ' J I 
CO""..r..r~~~..r..r..r..r~..r~~..r..r...oc--...cr..r...-ocr.....oQ 
JOBS ARE AVAILABLE FOR MONTESSORI TEACHERS -ONE OF THEM CAN BE YOURS! 
That's right. The demand for qualified Montessori teachers is not being satisfied. And we can easily prepare you for this rewarding career. Our proven program combines classroom study at the College of New Rochelle, N.Y. plus paid internship and continuing consultations. 
You choose from the broadest range of American Montessori Society accredited programs available in the U.S. 
• Infant/Toddler-Birth to 3 years (the first accredited program for 
this age group). • Pre-Primary-3 to 6 years. 
• Elementary -6 to 9, 9 to 12 and 6 to 12 years. 
A Program Representative will be in South Bend/Mishawaka on March 11 and 12 at the Little Flower Montessori School to discuss the details with you in person. Call collect (914) 472·0038 Day or Evening to schedule a meeting for either day. 
MONTESSORI ~~~6~~~~~UCATION 
25 Roxbury Road, Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
§ "We need to advance the8 technology and increase the§ research output from a team of SS scientists and engineers who canIperceive a problem and devise the solution," said Dick Pears, manager of VM Planning and 
Design at IBM. 
§ 
ville, Mich., will continue as systems manager next year. Williams is in charge of the paper's computer and typesetting systems. 
Mari Pat Horne, from St. Louis, will serve as controller next year and will coordinate the accounting necessary to manage The Observer's $250,000 annual budget. Horne is assistant controller this year. 
Jeanie Poole, from Bixby, Okla., will continue as advertising manager. Poole coordinates the ad sales staff of the paper. 
Circulation manager will be Jeff O'Neill, from Medford, N.J. O'Neill, who will be in charge of delivering the 12,000 papers printed each day, has been a member of the circulation staff this year. 
a three-credit CPA review course, 
but the class was dropped in favor 
of a non-credit night class after 
many students complained about 
it. Kiernan said that the person who 
taught the class was not a CPA and 
a lot of students thought the class · was a "disaster." 
Notre Dame thought they had no 
competition in the CPA review 
class and thought most of the 
students would sign up for their 
course, Kiernan said. 
Conviser-Miller heard about the 
situation and contacted Kiernan 
about the possibility of bringing 
their CPA review class to Notre 
Dame. "Conviser-Miller is in the 
market to make money," said Seid, 
"and they want people to take their 
class." 



Grant 
continuedfrom page 1 
for his research because they are designed to "intemperate" with mainframes and are capable of run­ning many of the same programs as an IBM mainframe. 
Even though some basic forms of interoperation already available, the larger question Cohn is trying to answer is how the role of peripherals can be expanded in a multicomputer system. 
IBM officials say research such as Cohn's is helping to advance ex­isting computer technologies and to complement the current research 
being conducted within industry. 

Lee's BBQ 
Available for Private Parties ·Dinner or Beer· call 237·9167 for more info 

magazme 
Writers' Meeting 7PM Tonight 3rd Floor LaFortune 
All interested 
are welcome. 


t




Showcase 
Wednesday, March 7, 1984-page4 
Miss Manners Letters to a lonely God 
When his promise to call 
On loyalty and fidelity 
rings false 
by Judith Martin 
Dear Miss Manners -What to do when a man I've been dating, says, "I'll call Wednesday to make plans for the weekend." This response after asking me if I'd like to go out Friday or Saturday. This said in the morning after an intimate evening that Tuesday, prior to Wednesday. 
Then -no call at all. A chance meeting on Friday evening. He said, "I was planning to call on Saturday." Then-after confronta­tion, adjustment, he asks me out for another Saturday; we have a lovely time. That Sunday morning he says he'll call later in the week. He doesn't. 
I do not ask that he tells me whether he'll call or not, yet it's a comfortable closure when leaving each other after an intimate evening. Yet this builds in expectations. I expect him to follow through. He doesn't. I get forlorn. 
How should a man and woman handle this moment? Is this man 
really just a creep and have I been giving him too much 
understanding? Is this his way of saying, "I don't care"? 
A clue to his behavior may lie in the fact that he is a lawyer. 
Gentle Reader -His profession has nothing to do with it. A lawyer should be more careful with his words and leery of making offers that are open to interpretation as promises. 
What we have here is a common misunderstanding based on gender. You are using the same words to mean different things. Think of it without rancor, if you can, as an accident caused by cultural confusion. 
Many ladies unfortunately use the term intimate in the sort of situation you describe to include a form, however loose, of emo­tional commitment. It is only unfortunate when the lady has set the terms of the relationship without that, and then expects it anyway. If this is a truly casual arrangement, then the gentleman does not have obligations of continuity. "I'll call you," is a way of seeming to appease this expectation without actually fulfilling it. The correct parting statement is, "What a memorable evening this was." 
But gentlemen also use the calling statement as a social conven­tion, not to be taken literally, rather in the category of, "See you." 
There are two ways to handle this. If the romance is truly casual, merely smile, agree and then don't save the date. If he docs call when he says, or even after, and cannot succeed in reaching you, he will eventually start using the term literally. 
Or, if you want to step things up a bit, say kindly, "No, you'd better not, I have a heavy schedule just now -suppose I call you when I'm free, say, about the following Wednesday?" Then don't call until a week after the designated day. Miss Manners promises you he will be anxious to hear from you. 
• 


by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 
The word "loyalty" seems more 
secular than the word "fidelity." A 
husband is faithful to his wife as a 
religious duty. A soldier is loyal to 
his country as a matter of 
patriotism; even pagans accept the 
duty of being patriotic. Loyalty 
looks like a more muscular word, 
different from the jargon preachers 
use in promoting their trade. 
"Loyalty" is something you could 
mention without embarrassment 
while having a drink at Harry's bar. 
Gallagher had suggested Harry's as a place to meet. We were sitting at a little round table, cheering ourselves up on Virgin Marys because it was too early for mixed drinks. It was a quiet bar, neutral ground where a lapsed Catholic could talk to a priest. Gallagher, coming to the rectory, might give me the idea he was looking for help. 
Gallagher said that he was the president of a company he would like to dump. He had four kids who had nothing in common. His pity for her was the glue that kept the marriage together. He was tired of living with a woman because he felt sorry for her. He was thinking of cutting out, disappearing, getting lost without a trace. He had given his family as much as he had to give. 
"Where would you go?'' I asked. I expected him to say he'd been looking at travel folders from Tahiti or Nice. He gave me a know­ing look that shocked me with its revelation of how tired he must have felt. 
"How long have you been think­ing this way?" I asked. 
"For years," he said. "I got the idea from my dad. He checked out the day after my brother's 21st bir­thday. He was 57 years old. He wasn't a patient man, but he waited until his kids were grown up. At least he had that much loyalty to his duties as a father." 
"Do you want me to argue with you?" I said. "Do you want me to try to talk you out of it?" 
"It wouldn't matter," he said. He was an executive, as impersonal as a board of directors deciding to close up a downtown store because business wasn't good. "I have this old habit of making sure an ac­count is closed." The account he was closing was with the Church. He was turning in his bankbook to me. He wasn't leaving me with a forwarding address. 

"How's tricks with you?" he ask­ed, grinning as a signal for me to relax, because the business part of the meeting was over. We would talk for a while, and have a few laughs, before saying good-bye. I wondered if he really expected so little of me. 
"I'm happy," I said. "I'm luckier than you because I'm happy." I said it emphatically to register my in­dignation with him and his father and the whole tribe that is tempted by terminal boredom. 
"C6ngratulations," he said, laughing, "What's your secret?" He probably thought I would give him some predictable answer, like 

. "God," Who, in this book, was not verifiable. 
"All my life," I said, "I have had something to be loyal to. Most hap­PY people have something they care about: their countries, their families, their jobs. They attend churches, or join lodges, or get jobs with foundations caring for the handicapped. Even the street peo­ple have pets." I was tempted to say: You schmuck, where are your loyalties if you care nothing about your wife, your four sons, or your job? 
I would not have brought up the 

· subject of God, if Gallagher had not mentioned God first. You either believe, or you don't believe, but I wasn't willing to hassle with him over faith in God. He insisted on knowing, so I told him. Lately, because I've been reading the B'ible with "Genesis" as the starting point, I've had the idea of "loyalty" on my mind. The Bible contains1the history of the idea of how persis­tent God is in making us His fami­ly. Yahweh is the paradigm of loyalty, aggressively pursuing man, in brutal sagas starring slain Philistines, until we are aware that he loves us. More than ever, I'm understanding the necessity of be­ing loyal to Him in return. Loyalty means that He is always on my side, and He surronds me with mer­cy and forgiveness; therefore, I will stick with Him trying to live up to our partnership, even when I feel wearied, discouraged, or bored. 
Gallagher's future is still in­definite. I tried to talk him into be­ing a caring person. He feels empty inside where his loyalties should be. It's hard to be happy when your heart is not attached to someone or something. Nothing cares for us unless we care for it first. The only expectation is God and our mothers . 



Attack of the pre-spring break bugs 
by Marc Ramirez 
features staff writer 
Ah, it's almost that time of 
year again. 
Almost, but not quite. 
Mid-semester break is less than two weeks away, and if you're not already jumping out of your socks in anticipation, then you're pro­bably a freshman. 
Think of it. Vacation. Home. Travel. Anywhere but here. 
It's all only a couple of weeks away, but unfortunately, between now and then you've got to grapple with a few bugs in the system. 
These bugs are vicious, and unless you're into syllabi and pay­ing attention and that sort of thing, they quietly creep up on you, trying to bite you before it's too late. The first, and least dangerous of these, is the Quiz. 
The Quiz (quizzus botherus) is nothing more than an annoyance, as long as you're aware of what's going on. It strikes according to the whims of its breeder and trainer, sometimes called a Teacher. 
The Teacher (pimpus instructus) itself is an amazing creature. Often operating under the guise of a wonderful human being, the Teacher trains and breeds up to nine or ten of these Quizzes, letting them loose one at a time, then evaluating the student on his or her response to these attacks. 
The Quiz, however, is nothing to worry about, being no more harmful than a common bee. Like the bee, though, it can be more than a nuisance when it attacks in large numbers. 
There may be cause for worry in the second type of academic bug. 1t goes by the name of Test. 
The Test (testus hurtus) is a pest that feeds on free time, boldly at­tacking entire groups of people at once. The Test does not discriminate according to religion, sex or race. It strikes according to the whims of the Teacher. 
Not surprisingly, Tests have been known to cause students much pain. Their background is also well-known -it evolves out of tex­tbooks and class notes onto paper, hoping to catch the student un­prepared. Those students who have prepared in advance will not have much difficulty in fending off the Test, but for those who haven't, the Test will prove quite painful in­deed. 
The next two weeks are prime feeding seasons for Tests, but even more so for the second type of bug to watch out for: the Exam. 
The Exam (examus destructus) attacks with less frequency than does the Test, but compensates for its relative inactivity with its size and effectiveness. Exams are also bred by Teachers, and occasionally whole groups of Teachers will band together to produce one of these monsters. 

The Exam has a voracious ap­petite, feeding on bodily energy and mental stability as well as on free time. It appears approximately three times per semester. Students who know will tell you that on oc­casion they have merely toyed with Tests, but that an Exam always puts up a good fight. Whole courses, entire semesters, even Cumulative Grade Point Averages have been sunk by the poisonous bite of a single Exam. 
In short, Exams are nothing to scoff at. 
But don't lose all hope. With careful and preventive preparation, disasters resulting from Quizzes, Tests and Exams can be avoided. 
But there are exceptions. 

That's right, just when you thought it was safe to go back into the classroom. And these excep­tions are right up there with killer bees, black widows, poisonous millepedes, and army ants. 
And they love to bite. 
Pimp questions. 
There are some things you just can't prepare for, and Pimp Ques­tions (Pimpus omigoddus), alias Trick Questions, are prime ex­amples. They come in all forms, and can strike anytime, anywhere. They are bred by psychopathic Teachers with morbid senses of humor and sadistic tendecies. And they can appear on Quizzes. They can appear on Tests. They can ap­pear on Exams. Anytime. Anywhere. 

True/False Example: 

Question: In Pimpson's book, he implies that mankind still has a long way to go in the quest for a fair test. 
Student's Answer: True. 

Teacher's Answer: False. Pimp­son did not imply that mankind has a long way to go. Rather he came right out and said it. 
Perhaps you are shuddering to think that a Pimp Question such as this really does exist. But some maniac Teachers will stop at nothing to create havoc for the stu­dent. Be wary of Teachers who tell you to finish reading the rest of the book and then blast you with a Quiz or a Test on the appendix. And watch out for Multiple Choice Pimp Questions.... 
Multiple Choice Example: 

Question: Samuel Gompers was: Choices: a)Head of the AFL; b)Head of the NFL; c)An im­migrant; d)Head of the USFL; e)a legend in his own time;f)A and B; g)B and C; h)A and C; i)A, B, and E; j)Both D and E; k)A, D and sometimes E; l)B and C but never D; m)E every once in a while; n)none of these; r)all of these. 
Pimp Questions are devastating, and when in groups form whole Pimp Quizzes, Pimp Tests, and Pimp Exams. And when this hap­pens you are helpless and left to the mercy of the Teacher. 

Eventually you may decide just to give up and forget every effort to be serious about Pimp Questions. When handed a Pimp Essay Ques­tion (a member of the Pimpae family) reading, "Discuss the history of Greece in three simple sentences," it would be understandable if you wrote, "I'm sorry. I don't think I can handle this. Have a nice day." 
There will come a time when you should realize that your mental health is more important than some insignificant grade, diploma, or career. So next time yon are handed a philosophy Pimp Essay Question that reads simply, "Why?" and is followed by five blank pages, turn to the last page and vengefully scribble "Why not?" 

It might even get you an "A" for originality. 

~ports Briefs 
Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held this Saturday, March 10, from 2-4:30 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy. Please enter O'Shag through the big doors facing the quad. The tournament entry fee this year will be five dollars and the commissioners would like to remind everyone that no names containing vulgarity or personal attacks upon other students will be accepted at the time of registration. -The Observer 
ND Water Polo Club has begun practices at the Rockne Memorial . All interested people are invited to attend. The Observer 
Wednesday, March 7, 1984 -page 5 
A scuba diving class is being offered by NVA. ~e six-week non-credit course will meet twice weekly. Graduates Will be lifeti~e YMCA-certified divers. An organizational meeting will be held tomorrow at 5;45 p.m. in Rockne room 218. -The 
Observer 
A Broom ball Brawl, sponsored by NVA, will take place March 10 from 3:45-5:45. There will be open skating and a broomball tournament. Skates amy be rented for $1. There will also be a snack stand. Turn in broom ball rosters to the NV A office by March 7. -The Observer 

Track 
continuedfrom page 8 
elude a rather competitive and suc­cessful indoor track season for Piane's team. Unfortunately, no Irish athletes have qualified for competition in the NCAA Cham­pionships to be held next weekend at Syracuse University in New YOrk. 
THe fact that Notre Dame will not be participating in the NCAA's should take nothing away from the team's performances throughout the indoor season. Although Piane would like to be attending the meet, he feels that the weekend off will give his team the opportunity to begin preparations for the outdoor season, which begins March 31 with the Notre Dame Invitational. 
A camping and backpacking clinic will be he1d Monday, March 10 in the football auditorium of the ACC. llJe instructors are from the Outpost Trading Center. Anyone who wi~hes how to camp and backpack is encouraged to attend. -The Oqserver 
The NV A Fitness Screening still has some open times available. Call Sally at 239-6690 for more information. The Observer 
Stepan Center will be closed for recreation through Saturday, March 10. The Bengal Bouts will be going on during that time. -The Observer 
Irish Items tomorrow 
The Obseroer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFonune Student Center, accepts classified advenising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obseroer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of" Haggar College Center, accepts cl~sifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­




Classifieds 
ters r day. 

NOTICES Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Adventure! SCHOLAR·  LOST: A GRAY DOWN FACKET AT A PARTY AT CAMPUS V.IEW ON SATURDAY NIGHT. CALL JOE AT 234-9114 IF YOU KNOW WHAT HAPPENED TO IT.  JOING TO DENVER FuR SPRING BREAK& Well I need a ride, so if you have room in your car and you need another passenger call Maripat 7877  FOR SALE FOR SALE: AKAI RECEVER, AKAI INTEAGRATED AMP, AKAI TURN·  MOLEPIEAD YOU STRAY DOG, YOU! WHERE WERE YOU FRIDAY NITE? ARF!! ............ . KATIE COONANHappy Birthday to my favorite "Valley Girl" roommate. Love, Jayne .......... .  GO MEGGERS!WIN BOOKSTORE! WANT TO GET INVOLVED? OM­BUDSMAN NEEDS YOU! Applica­tions for Executive Board positions are available today thru March 7. Pick one up ate the OBUD counter ir. the  
SHIPS! ARMY ROTC! See LTC Bob  LOST: a gold Smith-Corona electric  TABLE AKAI SPEAKERS: $800 OR  lobby of LaFortune from 12-5 M-F.  
Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building (239-6264). .. IJ,, .. , .. ENOUGH!!! Hey guys, cool it with the sweats > and jackets, okay?  typewriter In black carrying case!! It was lost in Zahm Hall. Please return. If found please call 8875 or 8876, or return to Lost and Found in the Admin. Bldg. Thank you.  SOPHOMORES! Interested in becoming an Army Officer? In­terested in Scholarships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building (239-6264).  BEST OFFER. 289-4454. KEN BEFORE3:00 IRISH JAUNTING CART -Made in Cork County Ireland. From State Museum, Cooperstown, NY. $4000.  But seriously, folks: The sound of a coin flipping is too loud. Try instead using the Random Number Generator on a Hewlett-Packard-they're much quieter and accurate to more decimal places! ........... .  Any Questions, contact Andy at 239­0BUD. Leave completed applications at OBUD for Andy be Wednesday3/7 at5:00. CKH, THANKS FOR THE STUDY BREAK!LOVE, JT .....  
•· It was ONLY the Liberty Bowl!  FOUND One pair of blue mittens  Arbuckle  Appliances,  THE  
·-:.;._;-:_........·· LONG ISLAND CLUB SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN UPS · Wed, March 7at 7:00 PM in Lafortune. BOSTON CLUB BUS· LAST CHANCE TO GO TO BOSTON FOR BREAK. SIGN UPS ON WEDNESDAY AT 7:00 PM MARCH 7. $50 DEPOSIT MAN· DATORY$115 ROUNDTRIP. EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER #:30 CHOOSE UFE i'OR YOUR BABY! CONSIDER THE OPTION OF ADOP·  with white pattern. please claim at OBUD counter in LaFortune. lost: pair Black Saranac Ski Gloves in 104 Hurley March 1. Call Dave 8728 LOST: STRAWBERRY RED BROOKS BROTHERS SWEATER. ALL WOOL, PULLOVER, I LOST IT 2 OR 3 WEEKS AGO. IF FOUND, RETURN TO LOST AND FOUND ON FIRST FLOOR OF ADMIN. BLDG. OR CALL BUDDY 8728 ANYTIME. REWARD. THANK YOU. ST. A.P.F.U.  •Udes for 2 needed to Boston for Spring Break. Coli Rob at38JO. RIDE TO MT. PLEASANT OR LANS. lNG FOR BREAK. CALL SUE AT 277· 1368. WiD sban ex.,....... NEED RIDE TO NORTHERN NJ FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE AS EARLY AS WED AFTERNOON, MARCH 14, REturn Sunday, Man:b 25. Pl....., call Janet at4673 NEED RIDE FOR BREAK TO BUF· FAW, ROCHESTER, OR SYRACUSE.  RAILROAD PLACE, Noblesville, IN, 317-773-3915 . ATARI 400 COMPUTER WITil EX· PANDED MEMORY 48K. PLUS KANA 1000 DOUBLE DENSITY DISK DRIVE, BASIC CARTRIDGE AND JOYSTICK. $575 Negotiable. 289-2646 S-C Prlable Elec Typewriter ex cond, $250 new, asking 5100. ACOUSTIC guitar, ex cond $140 new asking $70. lv msg for john m. at239-7097 TAPES MAXELL'S 2.65 and tdk's 52.50 _., Daa Meakin 277-3306  T.-WELCOME TO BERMUDA? TRY THE BAHAMAS INSTEAD!! ONLY TWO MORE WEEKS-LOOK OUT FREEPORT!! -C ....... . Theron Roberts may be a man-god, but it's just his job... Attn 4th yr arkies:lf it's the right car, and it's the right price, don't just take a drive, take a --trip. For better ser­vice, for the best price, don't just take a drive, take a -trip. Take a trip, take a trip, take a -Motors trip. Happy bir­thday, PAT!. .....  sign ups tor the LONG ISLAND CLUB Spring Break Bus will be Wednesday, March 7 at 7:00 PM in LaFortune. Price: $65.00 ROUNDTRIP. Hey ARKIES! Grave, Venturi, Eisen­' man, or Tigerman we're not-but at least we can work TOGETHER...VI­CIAN HENDERSON MASON CLIF· FORD NEEDED: PUNT returners. Over 17 and PASS members need not apply it's fourth and long: there's no doubt, we11 PUNT. Unless, of coarse, someone can come up with a better P ASS... Do any Lewis girls know bow to play footbaU? ..  
TIONI INFERTILE COUPLE WANTS TO ADOPT INFANT. WRITE P.O. Box 5391, Ft. Wayae, in 46105 Summer Sales Positions. Average earnings $2700. Sell yellow page advertising for Notre Dame and Western Michigan University Cam­pus Telephone Directories. Spend 5 weeks In Notre Dame and 5 weeks in  FOUND--GIRLS'S LIGHT BROWN GLASSES WITHOUT GREEN CASE ALUMNI PARTY ROOM FRI FEB 24th You've got 24 hours. Call Chad 1142 SIX TIMID GUYS STILL LOOKING FOR DATE TO THE WAKE! TAKING APPLICATIONS NOW. CALL BOB '1107 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Call dan at 16118. NEED ONE RIDER TO EAST PA. ALLENTOWN/READING AREA FOR SPRING BREAK. LEAVING 3/16. Call Dean8651. RIDE NEEDED TO LAUDERDALE ON 3/16!!Call Michelle 8136 NEEDED: RIDERS TO THE TWIN  PERSONALS Real Prognmen don't write in FOR· TRAN. FORTRAN is for pipe stress fmaks I!Jid crystallot~nopby weenies•.• COSMOS FEVER •••••••••• CURE IT!!!!!!!! ..........•.  GO AHEAD ... MAKE MY DAY!GIMME A RIDE TO BOSTON FOR SB.will share usual. Call Rod 8703 ... TO MY BESTEST BROTHER (HiE FACT THAT YOU ARE MY ONLY BROTHER DOESN'T MEAN ANYTHING). HAPPY BELATED BIR· THDAY! LOVE SUSAN. P.S. TO ME,  MONTE CARLO NIGHT MONTE CARLO NIGHT MONTE CARLO NIGHT SATURDAY, MARCH 10, 1984  
Kalamazoo. Car necessary. No sum­ CITIES FOR SPRING BREAK. CALL  YOUR NAME WILL NEVER BE BILL!  
mer school students. Lodging and BILLAT3230 one meal per day provided while in FOR RENT Kalamazoo. Qualified students should call University Directories, 1· House tor rent next fall · 6 or 7 800-334-4436, for more information by bedrooms-two miles from campus . RIDE NEEDED TO C!NC!NNATI March 31st. Ask for BarbaRA $400 per month plus deposit and LEAVING THURS 3/15 af1er 2:30 p.m. Nieukirk utilities. 233-2704. WiD share usaol. Usa 2734 . NEED RIDERS TO NEWPORT NEWS, LOST/FOUND I l ~~.~.~~~.~~~:~~-~~-~z:'... L...---------:----1 f...__T_IC_K_E_T_S__...J RIDERS NEEDED: DENVER-C. SPR· INGS CALL 1100 FOR SALE: FOUR TICKETS TO YES ,. ......•.•••...••••..•...•.•....•  The Pizza Guide to EE354 This is the class method. We'll order 40 piz· zas, two at a time, Of each pair, both will be the same type but from dif· ferent places (Godfather's vs. Domino's, Julio's vs. Bruno's). We'll designate one to be true, and one false. Which ever of that pair arrives first is the answer to corresponding question. Bring $5.00 to help defray costs........ .  LUSH AND FISH: FRUSTRATION IS A TERRIBLE THING, ISN'T IT?? ... THEOLOGY ... "MEET YOUR MAJOR'. Thursday, March 8, 5;30-6:30 p.m. room 331 O'Shaugnessy...refreshments.... TO MY BIG BROTHERS:YOUR LIT· TLE SISTER CAN HANDLE HERSELF. THANKS FOR OFFERING.  Big Bro:Happy 22nd! Thanks for everything-! coundn't have lasted this far without you. You may be obnox­ious, but i'd never give you up. Love Michelle ...... . OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LI­QUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. ; 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF 'HOLIDAY INN. MONTE CARLO NIGHTMONTE CARLO NIGHTMONTE CARLO  
LOST HELP!! 14 kt gold earring, sheild shape, 1.25 in. diameter REWARD!!! if found please call 234-1170 afler5 best. HELP!! To whoever accidentally took my navy blue/grey-light blue winter jacket from the Bertino­David Campus View party on Sat. 25. Please return!! I'm freezing! Call Terry at 8875 or 8876, or drop it off at Lost and Found in the Admin. Bldg. Thank You Lost: 1 pair of navy dress pants last week. If found, call Mike at 6835.  CONCERT FRIDAY MARCH 9 AT ROSEMONT HORIZON. CALL Jed AT 1245or 1670 WANTED Riders needed to D.C. or U. Va Call Jim8437 .. Need ride to Wash DC area 3/16 Call Carolyn 1267 ...... . NEED RIDE TO DENVER and time after 2:30pm Thursday tor Spring Break. Call SUE 283-6280 ..... GOING TO OR THROUGH ATLAN·  RIDENEEDEDDETROIT-BILLIIII37 -' j.i~~d ~id~· i~ NJ·i~;,;;~~k. ·Li~·12s·7· ." • NEED ONE RIDER TO TAMPA/ST. PETE AREA FOR SPRING BREAK. ROUND TRIP. LEAVING 3/16 return­ing 3/27. call272-3749 ..... . Need ride for 2 to NYC area tor spr· ing break. Deb SMC4265 NEED RIDE TO DC for Spring Brea~.  ATTENTION TO ALL THE PEOPLl WHO KNOW MAUREEN AKA CARROT-TOP: CARROT-TOP WOULD LIKE EVERYONE TO KNOW THAT SHE IS OFFICIALLY GIVING UP THE CANCER STICKS, AND SHE WOULD LIKE YOUR HELP TO OVER· COME HER ADDICTION ..... . HAVE YOU REGISTERED TO VOTE? OR ARE YOU JUST APATHETIC, LAZYAND IRRESPONSIBLE? . .. Be nice to your favorite P.E. woman and maybe she'll ask YOU to Monte Carlo Night! .......; .• One ·nuclear bomb can ruin your  I'M SURE IT WAS OUT OF LOVE AND CONCERN, BUT TRY TO SHOW IT DIFFERENTLY. HE'S NOT A SCHMUCH! THE BOYS ARE OUT OF THE BATHROOM--IT'S UP TO YOU TO KEEP THE SKELTON IN THE CLOSET (I'M COUNTING ON YOU) LOVE, THE LITTLE SISTER FROM CASPER. WYOMING P.S. DON'T WORRY, PAUL, THEY'RE ALL TALl< AND NO ACTION........ . BOSTON CLUB BUS · THERE ARE STILL A FEW SPOTS LEFT ON THE SPRING BREAK BUS. THERE WILL '£IE A SIGN-UP AT 7:00 PM ON WEDNESDAY MARCH 7 IN LAFOR· TUNE. $115 ROUND TRIP, $50 MAN­DATORY DEPOSIT.  NIGHT SATURDAY, MARCH 10, 1984 INSOMNIA HOT LINEHaveing trouble going to bed? call the new INSOM· NIA hot line. 287-6247 afler 6 p.m. Putting you to bed is our business. NEED A RIDE TO PHILADELPHIA FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE WED AFTERNOON. CALL CELESTE AT 7972 afler 7pm AMERICANS WITH HART NEEDS YOU. CALL JOHN AT 3377 or BERNIE at1770 ground zero meeting tonight, 7, esc, new members welcome. BUFFALO CLUB BUS! YES BUF­ 
TA FOR SPRING BREAK?  Will  share usual.  Call  Monica 284·  whole day! ...  FALO  CLUB  BUS1  FOR  SPRING  
2 rides needed. Call Laura 284·5154  5451  BREAK ONLY $40. ROUNDTRIP. BR·  
REWARD for return of bookbag with EE books inside lost 2121 at South Dining Hall. Call ED at 3110.  BOSTON FOR RIDE-ED 1580  BREAK!  I  NEED  NEED RIDE: For Spring Break to Pensacola or Alabama Coast Will share expenses-call 284-5177  HEY SHEENA EASTWOOD, CLii-H SENDS LOVE AND KISSES ON YOUR filiND BIRTHDAY.LIVE IT UP.GUESS WHO? ....... .  FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE SEND A BELL YGRAM TO YOUR SHEIK! PH. 272-1858  lNG CHECK OR CASH TO 1ST FLOOR LAFORTUNE THRS MAR 8, 8­9 p.m. or Call Greg 1739. Non members welcome!  

The Observer Wednesday, March 7, 1984 .. page 6 
ParsonsMVP 

Hockey team holds banquet 

By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
In many respects the 1983-84 
hockey season brought about many 
unique experiences, especially since 
the team was participating on a 

club level instead of the familiar 
Division I varsity level 
All of that was put aside, 

however, last night at the annual 
awards banquet where the team, its 
coaches, and closest followers 
gathered to recognize distinguished 
players from the season and to ex­
press hopes for meeting the upcom­
ing challenge of participating as a 
varsity independent in 1984-85. 
Freshman goaltender Tim 

Lukenda took home the award as 
the team's Rookie of the Year. 
Sophomore Dave Waldbillig, play­
ing in his first full season, then 
grabbed two awards. He was 
honored as the team's Best Defen­
sive Forward and as The Most Im­
proved Player. 
Best Defenseman honors went to 

senior co-captain Joe Bowie. 
Senior Tony Bonadio received the 
award as Scholar-Athlete for his 
3.0 average in finance. The even­ing's most distinguished award, Most Valuable Player, was presented to senior Adam Parsons. 
Insisting that he didn't deserve it, 

sophomore Steve Whitmore was 
given the John Whitmer Award as 
the team's biggest complainer. 
The Garfield Award, which goes 

annually to the fattest team 
member, had two winners this year. 
Head coach Lefty Smith and senior 
Mike Metzler were its distinguished 
recipients. 
Co-captins for 1984-85 will be 


Bouts 
continuedfrom page 8 
Reilly scored the program's second TKO in his fight with Pat Bauer. They will fight Joe Beatty and Dan Watzke in the semifinals. 
In the 165 class, Ed Hughes and Ed Bulleit earned the right to face Two-time defending champ Perino and Larry Nardolillo, respectively, in the semifinals. Hughes had it easy, advancing because his oppo­nent was sick. Bulleit did not have such luck, as he had to survive a slugfest with Bill Butler. 
John Chiaro and Ken Munro earned their spots in the 175 semifinals in different ways also. Chiaro received a bye, while Munro had to hold off Alejandro Cano to win a split decision. They will now meet some very tough fighters in John Gurganus and defending champ Dave Packo. 
Jim Ackerson and Mike Con­ricode finished Sunday's program by advancing to the semifinals in the 185 class. Ackerson took a split decision from Tom Taylor, while Conricode won unanimously over Tim McDermott. They will face defending champ Mike Cray and Dennis Hill tonight. 
Also fighting tonight will by the heavyweights and super­heavyweights. Among the heavyweights, Larry Andreini will be squaring off AGAINST Kevin Oshea, while Byron Abraham will be meeting Jim Seith. The super­heavyweights will feature Joe Fazio against Marty Roddy and Pete Klebba against Chris Boerner. 
sophomore Bob Thebeau and pre­sent captain junior Brent Chap­man. 
Master of ceremonies and Blueline Club president, Dr. Steve Anderson, thanked the team for the entertainment it provided over the past year. He also acknowleged those who supported the team in various other ways during the season. 
Smith then addressed the matter involving the team's status for next year. 
"We're looking forward with great eagerness to next year," he said. "We were told at Christmas time that we could start schedulin"g as a varsity independent, but we weren't given confirmation until last Thursday when the Faculty Board (in control of Athletics) con­cluded its meetings." 
Next year's schedule will feature an eight-day trip to Alaska for games with the Universities of Alaska-Anchorage and Fairbanks. Games with Princeton, Yale, Air Force, and several of the varsity teams from this past season's schedule will further highlight the 1984-85 calendar. 
Thursday, March 8 
11:30-1:30 $3 
Chicken 'N Rice Rolls Salad Drink Dessert 
Reservations 239-5293 


·-~l't) 'S 
Wednesday Special 
-:;.,1r-••• 
·-··3-9 Mixed Drinks 2 For 1 9-3 Music By "Dewan" 
CLEMI VISION and 3M CANADA Part Time and Fu" 'lillie Summer Employment 
Required Independent Distributors and Sales People 
• 
Are you looking for a good part time job leading to a full time summer employment? 

• 
Are you looking to Develop and Evaluate your entrepreneurial abilities? 

• 
Do you desire proof for future em­ployment -'you can work on your own' 


This product is a very simple glare reflector for CRT's easily installed and demonstrated. Excellent sales results since 3M of Canada has accepted the sole Distributorship of Canada. Clemi Vision is now expanding in all 50 States of the USA through student distribution. Inquiries welcomed. 
To attend a demonstration and information Seminar to be held near campus, contact by
.. 
March 12, 1984: 
U.S. Students: Clemi Vision 519-765-2592 Days or Evenings 
Canadian Students: 3M Canada 519-431-2500 Ask for Mr. Tom Hepburn 9AM to 4:30PM 





~t(Jt~C3L~-----------------------------------------VV_.e_d_n_es_d_a.y,•M--~_c_h_7_,_I9_8_4_-_P_a_g__
e7 


-~ ­

Wednesday, March 7, 1984 -page 8 

Seorts 

Bengal Bout semifinals tonight at Stepan 
By MIKE SULLIVAN which kept most of the crowd in its Sports Editor seats until the end of the last mat­ch. 
Round one of the 54th Bengal The program started with the Bouts ended Sunday afternoon and first of a number of split decisions, the 14 boxers who won their fights as Marshall Rogers took the deci­will find even tougher competition sion from Jeff DeMartino in the waiting for them tonight when 130 class. He was joined in the 130 round two-the semifinal round-is semifinals by Matt Coash who won fought. a unanimous decision over Bernie 
The semifinal compeuuon, Lynch. The two fighters will meet which begins at 7:30 in Stepan J.P. Holbrook and Raul Motta, Center, will feature 20 bouts in 10 respectively, tonight. weight classes, ranging from 130 Rob DeSiato and Frank Maneri pounds to the super-heavyweights. advanced to the 140 semifinals in All the top-seeded boxers who much the same fashion as DeSiato received first-round byes will be in took a split decision from Tom Kel­action tonight, which could mean ly, while Maneri outscored Gerry trouble for the less-experienced McDonald on all the judges' cards. boxers who advanced on Sunday. The two will meet Tony Bonacci 
"Experience is the key," explains and Mark St. Amand tonight. 

The 54th annual Bengal Bouts continue tonight in petition. For more on tonight's fights and a summary Boxing Club President Angelo In the 145 class, Chris Soha and Stepan Center, beginning at 7:30p.m. Tonight's ac­of first-round action, see Mike Sullivan's story at Perino. "The more you fight, the Jeff Herrmann both advanced on tion will feature 20 bouts in the semifinals of the com-right. better you get. Each year that you split decisions, beating AI Leonard fight, you get hungrier. By the time and Joe Collins, respectively. Mike you become a senior, you've usual­Latz and Tom Lezynski will meet
At Midwest meet ly been in the fights for two, three, them in the semifinals. four years, and things are starting Hugh Doyle and Todd Taylor to come together." will be fighting Beresford Clarke
ND swimmers set new records 
However, while the top-seeded and Mike Mazza in the 155 

fighters like Perino generally have semifinals, after defeating their op­By ERIC SCHEUERMANN cessful performances. Junior Tim On Saturday, senior Dan Flynn more experience than their ponents in very different ways. Sports Writer Bohdan took 11th place in the 500-set a new varsity record in the semifinal opponents, the boxers While Doyle took a unanimous 
meter freestyle, while AI Harding preliminaries of the 200-meter but­who fought on Sunday showed that decision from Ed Grogan, Taylor 

Although men's swimming may and Bill Green finished 12th and terfly. He then came back to cap­they have the potential to put a had a much tougher time with Tom not rank high on the list of popular 13th in the 50-meter race of the ture first place in the finals of the great deal of pressure on the higher Shaughnessy. Shaughnessy had Notre Dame sports, don't try to tell same discipline. event, breaking his newly-sett seeds. forced Taylor to take two standing the swimmers that their sport is not The most successful race of the record by nearly one second. "The opening round was real eight counts in the first round and exciting. day for the Irish was the 800-meter "They wert: the highlights of the good," said Perino. "There were was clearly dominating the fight 
In the Midwest Invitational freestyle relay. Bohdan, Harding, meets," said StaRK OF Flynn's per­big crowds and better fights. In until Taylor nailed him with a short Swimming and Diving Meet last Tim Jacob, and Blaise Harding formances.' The first-place finish, fact, I was suprised the fights were right that caught him on the chin. weekend, the men's team finished a combined to take seventh place. the two records, everything was so good. The No. 3, 4, 5, and 6 As quickly as that, Taylor was in respectable eigth in a field of nine Friday proved to be much very impressive." seeds were fighting real well, and the semifinals. teams. Western Kentucky took the friendlier to the Irish. Bohdan and The 400-meter relay team also the bouts get better as the higher Eric Witte and Peter Reilly did top spot and was followed by AI Harding again swam well. Har­gave the team a boost on Saturday. seeds fight." not advance in the 160 class as Southwestern Missouri and Eastern ding placed fifth in the 200-meter The team, made up "of Bohdan, Sunday's performance provided abruptly, but neither had much Kentucky. freestyle, while Bohdan captured a Green, Dan Carey, and AI Har­a little of everything for the large trouble, as Witte won a unanimous 
Although some may look upon fifth in the I00-meter backstroke. ding, set a new varsity record of crowd of 1673 people that filled decision from Jim Arnzen, while the meet as a disappointment, In the process, Bohdan managed 3:08.77, while taking a fifth place Stepan. There were two TKO's and Coach Dennis Stark says that he to set a new men's varsity swimm­in the race. a number of split decisions -action see BOUTS page 6 does not feel that this evaluation is ing record of 54.29 seconds. accurate. Junior Brian Casey also was a In exciting matches 
"It was a tough meet," he said. bright spot for the team on Friday. "Race times on the whole were very Although h~ finished 14th in the fast. We had some good swims, I00-meter breaststroke, he shat­

Tennis team shows character 

some not-so-good swims. That's all tered an old varsity record with a I can expect in this kind of situa­time of I :02.40 in the dfoubles." 
By ED KONRADY opener for the Irish, starting at 

tion." Yet, the most successful part of 
Sports Writer Nelligan was not alone in his p.m. on the indoor courts at the Notre Dame started the meet on the meet was still to come for the heroics. Mike Gibbons, the number ACC. 
Thursday with some fairly sue-Irish. Last weekend was supposed to two singles player, played a In Notre Dame's first match of 
show the character of the Notre marathon three-hour match against 
the season last weekend, against a Dame tennis team, and, indeed, it Bill Sternard. With his razor-sharp seasoned University of Iowa team, 
did. shot placement, Gibbons emerged Paul Ghidotti at third singles was 
After devastating losses to the exhausted, but victorious, 7-5, 4-6, the lone victor, with a 7-6, 2-6, 6-2 University of Wisconsin, 7-2, the 7-5. decision over Jim Nelson. Irish had to face Division lil na­Still, the Irish needed more. "The long layoff from competi­

Track team concludes 

indoor season at IC4A 
tional champion Gustavus Gibbons' victory tied the score at tion was obvious, especially con­Adolphus. 4-4. The tiebreaking match was to sidering Iowa and Wisconsin haveBy JERRY MELIA Van Eyken placed third with a time With an amazing display of be the first team doubles. For the each played eight matches alreadyof 3:16:23.

Sports Writer determ ination, the gutsy netters Irish, that team was captain Tim this season," Fallon said. 
Piane received an unexpected fought back against the normal Noonan and the fatigued Gibbons. The Irish still lead the series Irish track coach Joe Piane and surprise with the efforts of Phil depression of such losses and the The Notre 'Dame duo took the against the Hawkeyes, 16-14. 

his team had an enjoyable visit to Gilmore in the 60-yard dash, in 
effects of a long layoff from com­first set, 6-4, but lost the second, 5­the East Coast last weekend, con­which Gilmore placed third. THe In the second match of the
petition. 7. 

sidering Notre Dame's performance IRish coach noted that Gilmore weekend, it was a talented Wiscon­
Number one singles player Joe Gibbons had been playing for

in the IC4A Championships at had gotten off to a good start in the sin squad that defeated Notre
Nelligan began by losing two heart­over four straight hours. His

Princeton University. THe IRish indoor season but encountered Dame. Two of the doubles teams
breaking matches. In the third, muscles rebelled, contracting,

placed ninth in the 116-team field. some leg problems as the season provided the only Irish victories.
against Rich 'Skanse, he lost the cramping, nearly crippling him.

Of all the schools participating in progressed. It appears with his time Gibbons and Noonan at number
first set and was faced with match Gibbons went on, though, chew­

the meet, only 40 teams recorded at of 6:39 that he has more than one doubles defeated Tim Klein
point. ingJimes to relieve the cramps, run­

least one point. recovered from this injury. and Dan Arends, 6-3, 6-4, and the
Nelligan did not quit, however. ning after every ball, no matter

Piane summed up the weekend, Jeff Van Wie placed fifth in the duo of Nelligan and Doug Pratt at
With an air of steely determination, what. And in the end, it was

saying, "It was the best perfor­1 ,000-meter run, and Ralph Caron third doubles overcame Tom Klein
ignoring his body's cries for rest, he Noonan and Gibbons who emerged 

mance in the last ten years." finished fifth in the 5,000-meter and Beany Welch, 4-6, 6-3, 7-5. 
saved match point. Still, that was the winners, capturing the final set,Although the Irish finished a run for the IRish. Other strong per­

not enough. 6-4.

respectable second, they were only formances include the efforts of The season will not be getting eight points away from fifth-place James Patterson in the long jump, Nelligan had to face nine more Hopefully, this victory will in­any easier for the Irish in the near Maryland. Van Eyken in the 400-meter run, match points, and he saved them spire the Irish to even higher levels future. Ball State arrives March 13 
Penn State won the team title of and the distance medley relay team all, overcoming Skanse for a thrill­of play, because today they are fac­to challenge Notre Dame after a the Championship by one point of John McNelis, Tim Cannon, ing 3-6, 7-5, 6-3 victory. ing the Wolverines of Michigan. seven-match tour in Florida. Four over George Mason with a victory Jim TYler and Alvin Miller. "Nelligan really had a stellar per­"Michigan is the defending Big days later, Notre Dame begins its 
in the mile relay. IN this event, the The IC4A Championships con-formance," noted head coach Tom Ten champion, so you know they own Florida trip during spring Irish team of Van PEarcy, Dan Fallon. "He fought off 10 match will be tough," says Fallon. break, including a tough match Shannon, Milt Jackson, and Mitch see TRACK page 5 points and came back to play well The match will be the home against nationally-ranked Miami. 



