AnTostal -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 92 tht· independent '>tudcnt ncw-,papcr 'lT\ ing notn dame and .,ailll man·, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2 3. 1984 

$20,000spent on Yale recipes called waste by some cooks 
more than 1,000 recipes which sity Assistant Food Services Director
ByJEFF HARRINGTON and 1 
were first used at the outset of this Lowell Adkins, who bought the saml'

DAN McCULLOUGH 
school year. Yale sold similar recipe re.cipe file from Yale for $20,000,
SeniorStaffReporters 
packages to Duke, Princeton, and said his staff "has also had some c:> 1984, The Observer Columbia universities. problems" with the new system. Examples of recipes that do not "The bottom line is that Yale has a 
A recipe file purchased hy Univer­work, according to the cooks, are set of cooks and clientele different sity Food Services from Yale Univer­beef bourguignon over noodles, from Duke's cooks and clientele," he sity this summer is a waste of money hungarian goulash over pasta, and said. "It's not that the recipes are since many of the recipes do not tacos. bad; it's just that they have to he work, according to several dining One cook related an incident ear­modified t<)fit our situation." hall cooks. lier in the semester concerning a Hickey said he has "great faith" in 
The cooks, who asked not to be duck dish which was prepared the quality of the recipes. "I worked identified for fear of jeopardizing strictly according to the recipe and at Yale for seven years as part of a their johs, said they have had "major sent to the serving counters at North management team that redetined prohlems" preparing dishes when Dining Hall. When the duck was the recipe file system ....I know the adhering to the recipes. "A lot of the carved, "blood started gushing out people who made (the recipes). I recipes just don't work ...and will and they sent it back." The cook said had a hand in it myself." take massive changes," one of the the duck was undercooked because Noting that "there is no plan to cooks said. "It's a waste of the Uni­dining hall supervisors insisted on change (the recipe file)," Hickey versity's money to buy these." "sticking to the recipe." said he was willing to "work with 
Director of Food Services William Hickey said he has heard of anyone who has prohlems" prepar­Hickey countered that the purchase "grumblings of this cook or that ing the recipes though "no one has was a wise move. "I think it's the best cook" but believes "these recipes come to me directly." recipe system in the country. I have been tested and used at an in-Deb Garrard. Food Services recommended it to the institution stitution for years and years and they manager of marketing and nutrition, that they buy it and the institution do work. They work very well." said she has received recipe com­took my recommendation." The cooks, however, are not alone plaints from some cooks, hut added 
The University paid S20,000 for in criticizing the file. Duke llniver-"it's rare that something is totally wrong and we can't serve it." "There are a lot of adjustments to

Abigail McCarthy 
be made," she conceded. "Every time I walk through the kitchen I get stopped by a cook waving a (recipe)


to ad·dress SMC class 
card." Yale recipes with severe problems have been revised or


of '84 commencement 
thrown out, with old Notre Dame recipes used instead, Garrard said.

By AMY STEPHAN University of Minnesota, McCarthy 
One of the main drawbacks to the

Assistant News Editor has lectured at educational institu­
Yale file is that the recipes are

tions including Harvard, Fordham, 
Abigail McCarthy, author, Georgetown, Boston College and see RECIPES, page 5 ecumenist, and lecturer, will deliver the University of Southern Califor­the commencement address ofSaint nia. Mary's !37th graduation. Saturday. She has received six honorary 

ND graduates enter Indiana state 
May 19. doctorates including one from Cath­olic University. Other awards in­clude the Avila Award from the 

and US Congressional elections 
College of St. Teresa, the Vie 
Veritatis Medal from Elms College, and the prestigious Trinity Award, By RICHARD INGRASSIA Barrett, 32, has been a Michiana diplomatic efforts arc likely to prove presented only three times in the News Staff resident for 14 years, and is a native more fruitful than armed interven­
history ofTrinity College. 
of Alexandria, La. He said his tion." 
"Abigail McCarthy epitomizes Two Notre Dame graduates are · 'grassroots campaign' is based on Another platform of Barrett's is an everything Saint Mary's stands for or now on the campaign trail in In­getting to know his district's con· effort to reach a mutually vcrifiahle wants to stand for," said Karen Heis­diana. stituents and fighting for them. nuclear arms freeze with the Soviet ler t, puhlic information officer at the Timothy Roemer, son of Dean of . "My decision to run for this llnion. "While America must be College. "The administration was Students James Roemer, is running ' office." said Barrett, "comes after very excited to get her." for the Democratic nomination for many months of tJlought and con­
McCarthy was chosen from 8th district representative to the In­sultation with friends and political among the nominations submitted diana State House of veterans. I have determined that the last spring by this year's seniors, Representatives. He received his BA only way to pursue the campaign for
Abigail McCarthy 
faculty members, administrators, from the l'niversity ofCalifornia and Congress is to devote fulltime efforts 
A mother offour, McCarthy is tne 
Regents and alumnae. The Academic his MA from Notre Dame. to the campaign now ensuing."
Board President ot Carroll Publica­
Council reviewed the nominees and Barrett resigned from his position
tions; President of Herald Com­
as Public Affairs director at Channel munications, Ltd.; Director of the 
suhmitted a list of candidates to the 
Board ofRegents, who must approve 34 Public Television to realize this Dreyfus Corporation; and Co­
all honorary degree recipients. goal.
ordinator of the National Con­
"First and foremost, in addition to ference on Women, The Economy, "Since Saint Mary's is a women's 
voting and taking a lead in address­and Puhlic Policy. college, we generally try to find 
a ing national and international issues, As a staff columnist for Common­prominent woman to speak," said 
a member of Congress must fight for u•eal, a journal of puhlic affairs. Heisler. "Abigail McCarthy has a 
his own district, particularly in the literature. and the arts. McCarthy reputation as an excellent speaker." 
area of jobs," said Barrett. addressed topics ranging from the The College will also award 
He also maintains that there must Bishops' pastoral letter to the gen­honorary degrees to architect Evans 
be a more equitahle and less waste­der gap in politics. Woollen. who designed the award­Timothy Roemer
ful use of federal dollars. "Human She is also the author of the criti­winning Cushwa-Leighton Library service programs must not he the memoir, and supervised the renovation ofthe
cally acclaimed Priz,ate exclusive target of cuthacks, as they second to none in military strength. Faces/Public Places and the novel, Haggar College Center; Robert Be­have heen in the Reagan administra­we must recognize that the nuclear Circles. a Washington Stor)'. ck, chief executive officer of the 
tion. Also, there is considerable arms race threatens the life ofevery McCarthy has been involved in Prudential Insurance Company; and waste in the military hudget." 
human heing," holds Barrett. Sister Olivia Marie Hutcheson. Supe­
ecumenism as vice president of Barrett believes the United States Barrett plans to walk from one Church Women United, an alliance rior General of the Congregation of 
should not "stumble" into military end of the six-county district to the of 26 million Protestant, Orthodox the Holy Cross. conflicts. He proposes, "We should other later this year, to meet with jew, and Catholic women, and as a Mary Kelly McLaughlin, a 1942 'send in the troops', as the saying the constituents of his district and 
memher of the Bishops' Committee graduate of Saint Mary's and leader goes, only when we have a strong talk to them about their needs. on Education and Ecumenism. of California's EducatiQn for Paren­sense of the longterm purpose of Roemer plans to campaign for the An alumna of the College of St. thood project, will receive the Presi­such a strategy. In Lebanon and in Catherine at St. Paul, Minn., and the dent's Medal. Central America as well ... sPe CAMPAIGNS page 5 





The Observer Thursday, February 23, 1984-page 2 
In Brief 

Ilavid, the "bubbleboy"who spent his entire life 
in stcrik rooms bet·ause he had no immunity to disease, died at the age of 12 last night at llouston's Texas Childrens Hospital, spokes­woman Susannah Moore Griffin said. -AP 
The American Catholic Studies seminar 
will meet today for a talk by Father Alden Brown of Queens College in Flushing. N.Y. Brown will discuss "The Grail Movement in the l'nitt·d State!>, I 9-i0-1 9(ll: The Role of \'\'omen in the Lay Apost­olatt·." The st·minar will hq~in at 4 p.m. in the Library Lounge. The ltTturt· is sponsornl by Notre Dame's Cushwa Center. -Jbe Ob­.•.;ert'er 
The Reagan Administration's faiture to seek 
nils in air pollution t·voked a strong diplomatic protest from Canada )'l'stnday. Ambassador Allan (iotlieb said his government wants to pnsuatle tht· administration acid rain is tht: most important li.S.­<.an ad ian issut· that threatens to raise "high-level concerns" among all Canadians. The text of the note givt·n to William Schneider, un­dt·rstTretary ofstatt· for security assistanct·, science and teehnolpgy, w;ts not made public. But (iotlieh told rt·porters. "This is a strong note."-tlP 
IndianaUniversityProfessor.John R. Krueger 
kept a telephone "st·x line" to arrange sexualliasons. and recruited a woman last year to work as a prostitllle. prosecution witnesses tes­tifkd yesterday. Pamela Koone of Bloomington told a Monroe Cir­ntit <.ourt jury that Kruegn arrangnl ovn the past few years for her to have .sex t(>r pay with five orsix men at lll"r traikr or in his house. A second Bloomington woman. Linda Sparks. testifies Ms. Koone in­troducnl her last year to tht· 'i6-year-old Krueger, who said he could hdp ht·r make mom·y. Thdr tt·stimony was heard on the opt·ning 
day of the trial. Ms. Koone tt·stifks that Krut·ger had between five and tt·n phont·s in his house. "lle had a regular line and ht: had the otlwr line. that was his sex line. That'1-o what he called it," she said. Kruegn fact·s two felony counts of promoting prostitution and one mbdt·mt·anor count ofsoliciting a prostitute.-AP 
Of Interest ' 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association 
will honor an outstanding membn of the class of 19H4 when it pn·st·nts its Distinguished Student Award. The citation is based on service to the llnivt·rsity and community, as well as good academic standing. Oftkials of the 71,000-mt·mher alumni organization will prt·sent tht· third annual award at its national meeting in late April. Tht· award has been described as equal in significance to the present Sorin and Armstrong Awards presented by the Alumni Association each year to an outstanding alumnus/alumna and staff member, rt·spt·ctivdy. -The Obser1•er 
A one-credit course, "Religion and Politics in the Middle Fast" is being offered by the Anthropology Dept. beginning this week and continuing through March 29. The course will study tht· insurgt·nn· of Islamic fundamentalism and will he taught by Prof. Patrick <1affney and Kharkh Kasmiah. a professor at the University of Damas<:us. Today is the last day to register for the course, which meets on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4: I 'i p.m. Stu~ents may sign up in room _H6, O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Obsen•er 
Weather 

Partly cloudy today with continued mild tem­twratures and a ·iO pertTnt chance of rain later this afit·rnoon. The high for today will he in the mid-'iOs. -The Obsen•er 
The Observer 
t'roduclion Consultant . ..... Stc.:vt· Fostc.:r /Jesi~nl:'dilor... .. ... Chris and Susan /Jt•si)(ll Assistant .......... Maun.·t·n Murphy

Tht• Observt·r (I W~ 'i<J<J l-1111111 l h f.t~rout Sltiff... . .Lisa and Mit:hac.· I
puhh,ht:d ,\toml.t~ throu~h l:rida\· ~111d 1)•jJt'St•llers .......................... Carol and Ted
on home.· loolllJJI ~.llurd;~y!'l. c.·x~o.:t:pl 
Nt•u•s /:IIi/or... . ... Amy Stt·phan
dunn~ l'XJm Jlld \·at ,11 ion pt·nod~ "fhe 
CupJ' /:'eli/or... . .......... John llcasly
()h!o!t.•rver I!'> puhla~ht·d h~ till' MtH.h:nl,tJI 
.\f){Jrts l.'opJ' Editor.... ... Marl' R.amirc.:z \'iell'fJoiull.t~l'Ottt ......... Tom Small 
tht' t ·mn·r~ll\ of Nnln· Danu· .111d ~a1n1 

.\1.1n ·, Collt:~t: ~uh~t·npllnll!'> 111.1~ ht· fi.•atun•.o; Copr Fditor. ..........jl'rry Young
pun ha,t:d for S.!'; pt·r yc.·Jr {S I.-; pc.·r Ft•ature.o;/.c~roul... . ...... Mary }h:aly
!-.t'mt·'tt."r) hy "'ruin)( The.· Obsenrer, P () Box l.}. Notre.· l>Jnlt". lndiotna ·16';~(, 
!VIJ /Jar l:"ditor..... .. .... Mdinda Moore 
.\"JJC net)' l:"tlilor... ......Jody Radlt.·r
The Obsenrer 1~ J mt·mhc:r ot The A~­
AtllksiKII..... .. ........ Paul Slota
sociat~d Press. All rc:prodtKiion ri~hh 
PbulcJJ.:rapbt~r.. .................... Paul Cifardli
;tn· rt'!'lt"f\'t"d 

So long Iowa. • • 

Former vice president Walter Mondule (top) con­didates with less cause to celebrate after Mrmdt~v·s tinues his quest for the Democratic presidential t•ote, head toward Neu• Hampshire in hope of1•idury. 
Pictured belou• from left to right are: ex -Senator nomination ajler a conuincing victory in the /ou•a George McGm•em,jessejackson. and Sen. Emest Hol­caucus Monday. Other Democratic presidential can-lings. 



CORKTOWNE LIQUORS, INC. 
1841 SOUTH BEND AVE. 
STATE ROAD 23 
Vo MILE WEST OF MARTIN;-_~ SUPERMAR~ET 

LIQUOR

BEER 
Fleischmann Goebels 5.19 
Vodka 7.88 
1.75L 

Lowenbrau 9.99 
Canadian Mich Light cans 8.99 
Mist 
4.99
750ml

Bud Light 7.99 Seagram 7 10.99
Lambrusco 2tor$5 
M &RAsti 
1.7&
7.99 
E&J Brandy 5.88
Paul Masson 

FREE KEY RING TO ANY 750ml Wines 20°/o off 
CUSTOMER THIS WEEKEND White Mist 
Gin 7.99

·•'II· 
·""nln' 
1.75L 
Jack

Win A Spring Break 
Kegs and Quarts 
Daniels 7.69 
750ml

Trip to Florida
in Stock 

...I 

The Observer Thursday, February 23, 1984-page 3 
SMC group promotes campus awareness of nuclear issue 

Olympic theme, new activities to highlight this year's AnTostal 
ByMARYCAROLCREADON 
News Staff 
Spring fever may be raging in epidemic proportions on campus, hut what promises to be a cure is still several weeks away. 
This year's AnTostal could be the best ever. according to Chairman Dave .Jakopin, who notes that the fes­tival will have an Olympic theme this year. 
In true Olympic tradition, a torch 
hearer will lead a procession of 
gladiators to the mud pits. 
And what would the Olympics be without the grueling decathalon event? According toJakopin, the An­Tostal decathlon may not he as com­petitive as the original, but promises to be just as entertaining. 
These arc just two of the many ac­tivities being planned by the AnTos­tal committee in the spirit of the Olympics, said Jakopin, who adds that suggestions for other activities are welcome. 
In addition to the popular events 
from preceding years such as Ugly 
Man on Campus, Bookstore Basket­
ball, ultimate frisbee, the Dating 
By MARGARET GRAY 
Neu•sStaff 
Millions of Americans watched the ·rv nuclear drama, The Day Af­ter, last November. including a group of Saint Mary's students and faculty members who viewed the issue. 
The Peacemakers, in conjunction with Justice Education, Campus 

The Irish Gardens 
your Screw your Roommate Headquarters 
/1 '... 

i~~~~ ·
L 
· ? 
\? 
' 0 

J ~ ~0 
v 
:::--, .,.......... 

Black Cultural Arts Festival Come and experience entertainment at its best at our student TALENT SHOW 
Saturday, February 25,.. 7:00pm Library Auditorium 
Ministry, and various other groups

7; Stay on campus and organized a three-day program on Feb. 12-14. 
save $$$by letting us 
The program centered around the

take care of your 
moving of the Union of Atomic
flower needs 
Scientists' "doomsday" dock -an imaginary clock which indicates 

Dial M-U-M-8 (6867) 
how close to nuclear war the group perceive us to be -"at three

to place an order 
on hope. said Hohl. Even though the

Located off the lfazz rrorby~sJ 
nuclear situation often appears grim, member!-> of the campus community

in the basement of 
Thursday Special
~r••~· 
were urged never to lose hope. To 

LaFortune 
impress this idea upon the campus green ribbons were distributed and

3·8pm Mixed Drinks 2 for 1
Hours: 12:30-5:30 
worn; green representing the tradi­tional color ofhope. 

program in the Haggar College Cen­just because the evening's discus­ter. sion was over. But for this group, "The Day Af­Participants in this dbcussion met ter" didn't end with the final credits. several additional times to discuss 
Apanel discussion after the movie the nuclear issue and eventually or­raised the question, "What do we do ganized the Saint Mary's now?" Group members were not Peacekeepers -a group dedicated comfortable with dropping the issue to educating and involving the Saint 
Mary's community in the nuclear Game, and the various mud pit es­capades, there will many new events, saidjakopin. These include a slam dunk contest, an air band com­petition to be j)erformed during the breaks of the Saturday night band, and a Newlywed Game for married or engaged students only. 

Jakopin urges all students to par­ticipatt: in the planning by offering suggestions for events and/or help­ing to run an event themselves. 
There will be a second organiza­tional meeting this Sunday, Feb. 26, in Cushing Hall at 7:1 S p.m. for all those interested. 
Mismanagement of funds for last 
year's festival have raised concerns 
over the finances for this year's 
event. An audit conducted by the 
Notre Dame Internal Audit Depart­
ment in October of last year 
revealed the theft of S3,000, a 
S2,000 loss from the Heat Wave con­
cert, the theft of S600 worth of 
sound equipment, and S800 worth 
ofdamage to two rented vehicles. 
Jakopin said many changes were 
made to guarantee that such 
problems would not occur this year. 
For example. the AnTostal commit­tee does not have its own checking account as it did last year, so its spending will be more closely monitored. Also. the Student Ac­tivities Office stated that the 1984 AnTostal "will receive its funds in the same manner that all other Stu­dent Activity Fee money is ex­pended -either by means of a receipt or invoice, processed with the Student Government 
Treasurer's Office." 
The AnTostal budget has decreased this year but .Jakopin said the committee is planning many new events that will be inexpensive to run. 
Jakopin and the AnTostal commit­tee have been cautious in their choice ofthis year's band because of the financial disaster last year. Arion. a more dance oriented band from tepan Center Saturday night. 
.Jakopin has high hopes for AnTos­tal '84. He said his main goal is to have enough publicity to ensure awareness among the students of all the activities and full participation throughout the week. 

r----------------i
1Enjoy Barclay'!! Znd Annual 1 
I PRIME ·RIB 1
!Reg. '7" FEASTReg. '7" i 
I 
I 
! I 
I 
I I 

·..: , > l3.r.t 
Otter exp~res 3 10 84

I ~ ,.'-~~~..,_.. Not valid on 
~ Saturdays
I 1
1 52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend Ph. 272-5478 1 
L----------------~ 
Bfuo~Prok~ D-Frencbman Roland Agret protested his seven-year imprison­ment/ora murderbe says be didn't commit by cutting offhis little finger without anesthetic and carrying it in a jar to the justice ministry' in Paris. 
minutes to midnight," said Robert With the help of Dr. William llick­Hohl, reference librarian at Saint ey, Vice-President and Dean of Mary's and a member of the 
Faculty, a letter was sent to faculty Peacemakers. members asking them to devote The program's approach to the some of their class time to the dis­
nuclear issue was three-fold. The cussion of nuclear arms and its con­
upcoming presidential elections nection with the particular class. necessitated a practical approach, This combination of films, said Hohl. 
videotapt·s. and class discussions af­

Members of the campus were forded students an opportunity to urged to study candidates' platforms educate themsdves on nuclear mat­and to consider their stances on the 
ters. nuclear issue before voting. Because this is a moral issue, said An educational approach was Hohl, it was also approached within used, said Hohl. because faculty and 
a religious context. Prayer services staffon the committee believed they and homilies based on the context of had a responsibility as educators to the Bishops' Letter, "The Challenge make students aware ofthe issue and of Peace" encouraged everyone to to instill in them an understanding of pray and to work for peace. Tht.· idea it. They decided that the best way to 
was stressed that prayer could he a do this would be through the class­source of strength if everyone room. 
joined together. Great emphasis was also placed 

CUP THIS COUPON AND SAVE 12.00'1 
. ·..:.;,"' 
..:";·'· <~ 
For a 11m1ted t1me you 
1 
can enJOY our standard cut 
I 
of succulent pr11ne r1b a 
bottomless tureen of soup ~~ corn bread and your cho1ce of baked potato. home fr1es or nee mason. OUR REGULAR MENU IS ALSO AVAILABLE 
I 
L,m,t 2 d1nners per coupon I \ . . May not be used w1th 
~ '. -·· . , a~~~;;,;~~~g~~~~rs I 
l;li.cl'l'~ 
I 

The Observer Thursday, February 23, 1984-page 4 
Revised Mardi Gras to include game night 
By CHRISTOPHER RYAN 
News Staff 
Mardi Gras will take on a new look this year with a revised Dance-A­Thon and a Notrt• Dame version of tht· Newlywed Game. 
The major addition to the Mardi Gras festivities this year is a Game Night scheduled for Saturday, March I 0, in the North Dining Half, where students can play a variety of hoard games for a S.2 fcc:. 
The highlight of Game Night will he "The Roommate Game." Atakeoff on the tc:levsion gameshow "The Newlywed Game," roommates will he quizzt·d to dt·tc:rmine which pair knows each otht·r ht·st. 
Roommates wishing to he contes­tants in "The Roommate Game" may either contact Karen Klocke, the Mardi Gras chairwoman, or sign up 
at  the  Ombudsman  desk  in  the  
LaFortune Studt·nt Ct•n ter.  
Entitkd  "All  Night  Long,"  this  

year's Dance·A·Thon will ht· hc:ld in the South Dining llall. Friday, March <)and will feature a pajama hour and ~quan· dandng. 
let) to be able to participate the full 12 hours. Ticket booklets will be available in the dining halls through next Thursday. 
The student selling the most tick­ets to the four-hour dance will win a color television, with a stereo going to the student placing second. 
Those students who either buy a ticket to the dance-a-thon's 9 p.m. to I a.m. dance, or self at least two booklc:ts oftickets, will be eligible to win door prizes including free pizzas and dinners at local restaurants. The grand prize will he a trip to New Or­leans, for their version ofMardi Gras. 
Two movies will kickoff the wet·k's activitit:s. The original film production of The jazz Singer will he shown Tuesday night, March 6th. The second film of the week Show­boat, will he shown Thursday night, March 8th. Showtimes and locations of the films are to he announced. 
The Student Government hopes to raise somt• S I0,000 from its Mardis Gras activities. of which S6.000 will he given to local charities. The remaining 54,000 will be used to cover expenses. 
Mock Convention Poll 
Special to The Observer 

Walter Mondale was the leading candidate for the 1984 Democratic nomination while 69 percent believed Ronald Reagan should be re-elected, accord­ing to a survey ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's students conducted this week by the Mock Convention Commit­tee and The Observer. 
Of the 130 students interviewed, 70 percent were on-campus Notre Dame students, 20 percent were on­campus Saint Mary's students and ten percent were off­campus students. 
The results showed Walter Mondale, the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Sen. John Glenn (D-Ohio) as the three Democratic contenders most recalled by students. The poll also explored student opinion about the primary system. 
The questions and results went as follows: 
• Name all the Democratic presidential candidates 
ofwhich you are aware. 

12 percent could name no candidates. 
18 percent could name one or two. 
50 percent could name three to five. 
20 percent could name six to all eight. Candidates and the percentage of students who 
recalled them: Rcubin Askew ...21 Alan Cranston...33 john Glenn...77 Gary Hart ...31 Ernest Hollings ...22 George McGovern... 19 Walter Mondale...79 JesseJackson...78 

• Of the eight possible Democratic contenders, which one do you prefer? Responses listed as per­cent. 
Walter Mondale.. .48 John Glenn...21 JesseJackson...7 Gary Hart...5 Reubin Askew...3 George McGovern...3 Alan Cranston...2 Ernest Hollings...1 Indifferent/Unsure...1 0 
• If the presidential election were held today, would you vote for Ronald Reagan or the Democratic front-runner, Walter Mondale? 
Reagan...69 percent Mondale...28 percent Unsure...3 percent 
• Do you preferthe present state primary el ection process, or would you rather see one nationwide primary? 
State primaries...59 percent Nationwide primary...35 percent Unsure...6 t percent 
The Mock Convention and The Obseroer will poll and publish student opinion each week. 
The Mock Convention will be held in April and tradi­tionally parallds the nominating convention of the political party out ofpower. 
Contt·stants will dance from "! 
p.m. 
to 7 a.m. but le!>S adven­tun·somt· dancers may attend from 9 

p.m. 
until I a.m. for 53. Thi~ four­h>ur segment will feature the hand "Phase" and a disc jockey. 


A pajama hour will follow, katur­ing priZt·s for the hcst pajamas, milk and cookies. and a bed-time story to he read hy an undisclosed celebrity. 
To keep the evening hopping, a square dantT with a professional cal· kr has htTn st·hnlukd from ··l a.m. to 6 a.m. 
Students must sell at least one tit·ket hooklet (I 0 tickl'ls per hook· 
rAPI.28 MCAT 
THERE'S STILL TIME TO PREPARE 
CLASSES STARTING THIS WEEKEND

[ 
(r~~.
!!~N 

TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 

Stanley H. Kaplan Education Center 717 E. S. Bend Ave, Ste H. 
South Bend, IN (219) 272-4135 
For Information About Other Centers In More Than 120 MaJor US Cities & Abroad 
OUTSIDE NY STATE CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 



J'
lues -Fri 8-6 Sat 8-2 
~ 
Closed Sun and Mon 

Famiglia Italiano Ristorante 
Tues.-Fri. lunch & dinner; Sat. 
& Sun. dinner
HAIR DESIGNS 

Student group of ten or more receives 
FOR MEN flo WOMEN 

10% discount 
417 DIXIEWAY NORTH 

Free Delivery to NO &SMC
(ROSELAND) SOUTH BEND. IN 46637 

1636 N. Ironwood 277-0734 
277-6155 


SUN·SATIONAL 
MAURICES 
Where Fashion Doesn't Cost A Fortune UNIVERSITY PARK SHOPPING CENTER 
-· 

The Observer Thursday, February 23, 1984-page 5 
Phone-a-Thon expected to raise over $65,000 in pledges to College 
bling this year's goal of 65,000 to become a reality. 
More money can expected to be raised this year, due to an additional 6 phones to be used in the Phone-A­Thon. raising the total number to 24. 
A projected 200 volunteers consisting of alumnae, faculty and students arc expected to sign up to work this year. O'Shea continut:d. 
The workers will contact alumnae, recording pledges on com­puter sheets that each volunteer will have. Remittance envelopes are then mailed out to those who choose to donate. The money must be sent in by Thursday, May 31, "to make the fund year ...that's why it's in the spring," said O'Shea. 
Those who agree to volunteer their time will be entitled to a 5 minute free phone call anywhere in the continental U.S., courtesy of Saint Mary's College. 


ByJENNIFER BIGOTT 
StaffReporter 
The lOth annual Phone-A-Thon will take place at Saint Mary's during the week of Mar. 5-8 at Haggar ol­lege Center. 
Donations from the Phone-A­Thon provide an important source of income for the College, said 
ministrators say. 
Several cooks further questioned the feasibility of the recipes since key ingredients seemed to be mis­sing. For example, one cook noted the file included a recipe for chicken noodle soup without chicken and one for beef noodle soup without bee[ 
Garrard said such recipes are not necessarily "wrong," but a different way of making the dishes. 
Several of the dining hall cooks said they have taken it upon them­selves to make minor changes to the recipes, even iftheir supervisors are against it. "We can't be proud of what we're putting out once we see the end result," one cook said. "We've been getting hassled from the line ladies and the students be­cause they know how we normally Nancy Orr and Tracey Paunicka, stu­dent organizers of the event. 
Last year, 110 volunteers reached 2650 alumnae, raising approximate­ly $65,000 for the College which far surpassed the original goal of $50,000, said Lisa O'Shea, assistant director ofdevelopment. 
This year, O'Shea hopes at least 4,000 alumnae will be reached. cna-
Recipes 
continuedfrom page I 
designed to feed 2 5 to I00 people and they are actually being used to feed over 5,000, she explained. In revising the recipes to accomodate Notre Dame students, changes have to be made in cooking procedure and ingredients, dining hall ad­cook." 
Hickey has insisted that the cooks comply with the recipes -at least the first time the dishes are prepared -in order to "establish a stan­dard .... Control is in the recipe it­self. They (the recipes) are the standards of the operation." 
During the summer, food services will be converted to a computer­
based operation, with menus, or­ders, and recipes all filed into the system. With the recipes under rigid standards, food services will be able to prepare for the change now, Hick­ey said. 
He added, however, that the ini­tial preparation of the food through the computer system during the summer would be "interesting" since some minor problems might crop up. 
One cook said the situation is "totally frustrating .... It's getting worse, not better." 
But Hickey remained steadfast: "The current Yale recipe file is what we are living by right now. There are no plans to change it." 
Campaigns 
continuedfrom page I 
Democratic nomination for State Representative under the theme, 'For a Progressive Indiana.' 
In his platform, Roemer attacks the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles system· which \sends revenues to the coffers of the politi­
cal party in power. "Last year," the candidate said, "Michigan received more than $238 million from license plate ~ales alone, while we in Indiana are looking for an estimated $250,000 in taxpayer's money mis­sing from the Mishawaka branch.'' 

Roemer would like to see motor vehicle fees go to education, im­provement of the state's economic base, and maintenance of roads and highways. 
Roemer, 27, is optimistic about his first try for office. He has ex­tensive experience on the campaign staffs of candidates for political office in California and Indiana, and has worked as a research consultant for the New Energy Corporation. A doctoral candidate in government at Notre Dame, Roemer also draws from a broad base ofexperience as a member of a family active in local government and civic affairs for many years. 
Likewtse, David Barrett has had considerable exposure to the ideas and opinions of the Mchiana area. 
He hosted the nightly talk show, 'Straight Talk' an Channel 34, which approached various timely issues through guest interviews. He was News Director for WLOI-A:\11 and WCOE-FM in LaPorte. and on WSND-AM and FM here at Notre Dame, and is also active in com­munity theatre jn South Bend and Elkhart. Prior to this year's election, Barrett was involved in several gubernatorial and presidential cam­
paigns. 

PRICES GOOD THRU FEB.25,1984 
We accept student Check with N.D.ID 
LIQUOR
BEER
THROW 
Budweiser 

Apple Barrel
7.29
LP
YOUR 

Schnapps
Stroh 
4.99

750ml
6.99
LP
OWN 

Hiram Walker
Pabst Light 

Peppermint
6.29
LP

PINACOLADA 
Schnapps
Bud Light 
4.99

1.0L
9.29
48 7oz.
PARTY 

Kings Cellar
§e~cial Export
USING 
8.39 

Vodka 
7.99

Rose's 
1.75L
Michelobor 

Pina Colada 
Heavan Hill
Mich Light 
8.99
24Bottles

Mix 25oz. 99¢ 
Rum
QUARTS 
8.99

1.75L
and 
Budweiser 

100° Southern 
case quarts 
9.29

Heavan Hill 
Comfort
Pabst Blue 
5.99

750ml
Rum 
8.99 
Ribbon 

Kahlua
case quarts 
7.99 
8.79

750ml
You can make 60 6oz. 
Lite 
8.79
case quarts

Drinks for $12.95 plustax 
ice not included 

Budweiser 
29.99

hoiiBBL
Michelob 

36.99
holfBBL 

Old 
"WE BEAT ALL ADVERTISED PRICES" JUST BRING IN THEIR AD. 
PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH BEND AVE STORE ONLY 
Lite 

21.99 Milwaukee 

View~_o_i_n__t_________
Th_ur_sd_ay_,Fe-bru-ary-23_,1-98-4-_pa-ge-6 
One way to get things done at Saint Mary's 
were the least desirable ones. Had Residence Life ailowed That students got the rooms unblocked within hours ofSaint Mary's llousing and Residence Life department was room selection to take its course, keeping quotas for under­room selection shows their power to effect policy. That Col­playing "telephone" whn1 it decided to reserve rooms in each classmen in each dorm (as was eventually done), it would lege President John M. Duggan responded to the slUdents'
lorm liJr und~·rclassm~-n -the message which trickled down have seen which rooms nobody wanted and avoided the plea is commendable.
to the students hardy resembled the message released from th~· office. whole mess. But why must students go {o the top to get a receptive car? 
The communication breakdown between Residence Life Some in student government got involved in the final at­and students occurred after the decision to block off rooms tempt, but where were they weeks ago? It took a la~t-chancc 
Stutknts first !l-arned of plans 10 integrate the dorms rnonths ago. But at that time they were told that spaces, not 'fJedfic rooms would he reserved. Poor communications 
and bef(Jre the floor plans were posted. petition from the Sophomore <lass Council to get the ball Saint Mary's "telephone" game went like this: Residence rolling.
liJnTd sllldents to pressurt· Residenn· Life into heeding their Life supposedly informed hall directors and student govern­
complaints ahout blocking rooms. When Residence life and student government turn a deaf 
ment. liall directors supposedly told R.A.s., who knew of the 
ear to complaints, students have no recourse but to take the Last Thursday, Rcsidcn<:c Life posted tloor plans. Rooms blocks at least three weeks before room selection. Yet most initiative and go straight to the top.
which some students think arc choice suddenly were students did not know about the the blocks until the plans ,.,.~('rvcd. though rhc dcparlm('nt scenwd to think tht· rooms were posted. The Observer 
The Russia nobody really knows 
So the rejected suitor finally made it and became the bridegroom. 
The thing to say about the accession of Konstantin Chemenko to th~· top Soviet pown post is that it could have been much worse. It could have been a Party tyrant like 
Max Lerner 
The Max Lerner Column 
<in·gory Romanov or an Andropov protr:gl· lik~· Mikhail <iorbachev or the KGB-trainl'd Gcidar Aliycv, or any of the new crop of nco­Stalinists who arc infesting the Parr,· ap­paratus. l'or history's tender mercies, till' West should he grateful. 
Chern~·nko owes his choice to a dislike of the late Yuri Andropov so perva'iive that it mad~· the Brezhncv era ap~·ar like a Golden Age. Chernenko became the nostalgia can­didate. His passing-over the last time around became the Road Not Taken. 
Thus the struggle seemed to be an age­group confrontation, between the Old Guard ( Chernenko, Tikhonov, Ustinov) and the "YoungTurks," aged 60 or less. But in reality it was a struggle between the pre-Andropov Brczhnev group and the younger group who seized power even before Andropov and have been turning Russia into a KGB state. 
With each power succession we learn again how little we know about the internal workings ofthe Soviet Union. The emphasis of the "Kremlinologists" has been on the economic and ddense picture. But when it come' to the Soviet leadership -aside from the externals of the "pecking order" -our Intelligence is wholly in the dark. 
One reason is the total secrecy ofthe Soviet regime. Despite the spate ofbooks, the Soviet leadership is the Russia nobody knows. 

The atmosphere is that ofa Byzantine court, with a central figure who wears the imperial trappings of power, and a circle of courtiers, each with his own satrapy in a loose as­semblage offeudal fealities. 
The veils of secrecy are reinforced by the fact of total media control, total police con­trol, total KGB control. The accountability of each leader is only to the Party and state bureaucracy. There is no accountability to the people, and therefore no publicity, no public debate, no public knowledge of decisions taken. 
Throughout there is a paranoid fear that any disclosure will be a disclosure to the Western enemy. Hence the rise of the KGB to dominance. Even the military is subordinate to it. 
Chernenko is a carry-over from an earlier Russia -the Brezhnev pre-Andropov era, when the Party and state bureaucrats ran the show. It is as if the Andropov interregnum were only a bad dream. Like Brezhnev, Chcr­
nenko is oldish, sickish, with a love for the 
trappings ofpower. 
Yet there is a newer and more frightening Russia, run by arrivistes whom Andropov harJ picked even bdore he came to power -KGB­dominated, police-state-oriented, dcpor­sonalized, dehumanized. Cherncnko will be lucky if he doesn't become a prisoner in his own kingdom. 
As for the Americans, the Intelligence scene is dominated either hy CIA and military intel­ligence or by the big liberal funded "institutes" who sec detente everywhere, or by the right wing institutes who sec the enemy everywhere. 
We have never developed an intellectual elite trained to study the Soviet linion without ideological blinkers. As long as this remains true, Russia will continue to be the unknown country. 
Los Angeles Times Syndicate, (c) 1')84 

P. 0. BoxQ 
Endorsing SBP's 
Dearl:'dilor: 
Ev~·n though I am a senior at Notr~· Dame. 
this is th~· t1r~t y~·ar I have intently p~·rused 
your paper during campus dl'l:tions_ II was a 
tkprl'Ssing ~-xp~·rknc~· wh~·n ·1 considn mv 
outspoken support li1r you during your crisis 
ov~·r imkp~·ndcncc with the <iold~·n Dome. 
I was inn-nsl'll at your tlagrant lack of 
proti:ssional journalism in ~·ndorsing anyone 
li1r SBP. The Obsert•er is one of the very few 
sourtTS ofcampu~ n~·ws, it is unfair to all con­
<.Trnnl to ~·ndor!>.l'll any candidate li1r any 
campus d~Ttl'll office. You th~-r~·by take ad­
vantag~· of the uninli1rmcd voter hy possibly 
swaying his or hn vote li!r one candidate or 
anoth~·r. and, of cours~·. damag~· the chances 
of othn qualilkd people who are candidates 
also. 
Such an ad as this can only h~· ~·aragorized 
as unproli:ssional. Plea~·. tiJr th~· sake of lair­
n~·ss. rdrain from doing this in th~· future. 
l:'dilor's note: Th~· Obs~-rv~·r does no/take ad­l'tmltl~<' of lminjiu-,u·tl r•oter.,-. Tbe editorial board beliel'<'S it acts in tbe best interests of the nmmumity IJJ' nunplementing its /borough nell'S nH•erage ll'ilh a re~jJonsible ellt/(JI'Semenl. 
Till' Obs~·rv~·r S/J<'11/Ibree bours inlerl'ieu•­ing /be ctmdidales tlnd discussing lbe con­lent of the editorial. It is the paper's 
responsibili~J' /(J share its opinions ll'ilh stu­dents, encouraging them to look at issues not preseflled in the platforms or at ti:Jl' public 
debate. 
KONSTANTIN CHERNENKO. 72 
Favorite Books: CW9. ln Search ofExcel1eoce, Garfield Weighs In 
Hobbies: Slow-pitch softball, bowling Favocite Drink·. Bud Light 

m~~ 
~~~~W$ 
t\<9'£1\'ti!R.I~ 


Editorial Board DepartmentManagers 
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic 
P. 0. Ro,\' Q. Notr('/)ame.IN 46"i56 ( 2/'J) 239-5303 Managing Editor....................... Margaret Fosmoe Rusiness Manager..... . .......Christopher Owen 
The Obsert•er i~ th~-ind~·pcnd~·nt newspaper published by th~· students of th~· l'ni­Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Controller........ . .................Alex Szilva'i versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colh:ge. It does not necessarily r~·flect News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide .4.tlr•ertising Manager .. . . .......... .jeanie Poole the polid~·s of the administration of dtht-r inMitution. The news is reported as ac­News Editor....................................Mark Worst:heh Circulation Manager... ...... Mark Miotto curatl'ly and as objn·rively as possihk. l'nsign~·d editorials represent the opinon ofa SaintMary's EdJtor ..................Anne Monastyrski .\)•stems Manager .. . .......... Kevin Williams majority ofth~· Editorial Bo.1rd. Commentaric~. letters. and the hiSide Column present Sports Editor .................................Micth;wtj!U))ivan th~· vkws ofthdr authors. Column span· is availabk to all members ofthe communitv. ViewpointEditor ................................Keith Picher 
Founded November 3.1966

and the fr~-c expr~·ssion ofvarying opinionson campu~. through letters, is encouraged. Features Edilor............................... Sarah Hamilron Photo Editor..........................................Scott Bower 
Showcase 
Thursday, February 23, 1984-page 7 
Miss Manners 
Patience is a virtue in instructing parents 
by Judith Martin 
B
ack when the world was orderly, adults possessed all the 
desirable social attributes and practical skills, and children were 
eager to acquire them. There were powerful incentives for children 
to be polite, in theirwish to imitate the civilized behaviorofthose in 
control and in their anxiety to learn how to control things them­
selves. 
Now that youthful behavior is inexplicably admired by the elders 
of the society, and a major skill -the ability to understand and use 
computers -is more often found in the young than the old, what is 
to make children polite? 
Only, Miss Manners is afraid, the same sense ofcharitable kindness and pity, of noblesse oblige that traditionally required adults to be good to children. 
Here, then, is a plea to children whose parents apply to them in the hopes oflearning computer skills or some other areas ofyouthful wiSdom, such as teenage slang or hair-feathering. Be patient and tolerant. 
Basic teaching skills, when the learning is voluntary, require great 
amounts ofcourtesy. (Adults, too, will profit from knowing this, if 
they should be so fortunate as to be in possession ofknowledge their 
children want.) 
The first is a respectful attitude, in the fuce ofthe obvious fact that one person is knowledgeable and the other isn't. We pretend that is simply an accident, easily rectified, and that the ignorant person pos­sesses the ability to master the material with diligent application. Remarks such as, "Don't you even know that?" or, "Maybe you'd bet­ter not try," not to mention, "How can you be so clumsy (stupid, dense)?" are therefore not allowed. 
As in so many issues of manners, the appropriate phrases, "You're doing fine," "This just takes practice," and "Don't be discouraged," emphasize politeness at the expense ofliteral truth. 
Officially, therefore, there is no such thing as a dumb question. The ability to listen respectfully to a -well, to an idiotic inter­rogative -and to respond to it with apparent thoughtfulness is one of the severest tests ofa good teacher. 
Allowing the adult to make his own mistakes is another hardship 
on the cleverchild. The temptation to take it away and say, "Here,let 
me do it," is overpowering but must be resisted. How else are adults 
ever going to grow to be self-sufficient? 
And the teacher must steel himselfto bear repetition -repetition 
ofquestions, of mistakes, ofselfdoubts. 
The bright child will suspect that this course ofinstruction accus­
toms the instructor to many virtues -respect, generosity ofpraise, 
toleration, patience -that characterize the better forms ofeti­
quette. (There are nastier forms ofetiquette, such as sweetly 
ecnouraging people to make fools ofthemselves, but those are in the 
post-graduate program, to be taken after you have mastered the 
niceties.) Indeed, the best teaching, as the best teachers are 
tiresomely fond ofsaying, teach the teacher most. 
If that is not sufficient incentive to undertake the education of 
one'selders with sensitivity for their feelings, Miss Manners will add 
a threat. At the rate things are going, present children will one day 
find themselves at the mercy of their own children. So ifthey don't 
make the most of their superiority now, the chance will be lost 
forever. 
DearMiss Manners About two months ago, I mentioned in a letter to an acquaintance that I wanted to have her come to my house for dinner. Later, I saw this person again, and asked her to dinner, but didn't specify a day. 
Now I realize that I don't really want her as a dinner guest, but I feel obligated to invite her for a specific day and time, because ofmy past statements. Would it be rude to refrain from issuing a real invita· tion? Gentle Reader Couldn't you possibly have realized and refrained before? No, or you would not have posed the problem. 
Miss Manners will allow you to let this matter slide, grouping it with such meaningless conventional statements as, "We must get to­gether some time," although you have overstepped the vagueness which makes the lack ofintent understood. But you must, in turn, promise to rid yourselfof the careless habit ofbabbling in a hospitable manner to people you do not wish to entertain. 
Dear Miss Manners My mother and father will not let me have 
parties at home. They say we live too far out in the country, although 
I have many friends who live in my area. 
My friends agree that we could have a good time without a lot of people coming. On my I I th birthday, I had a party in town at a res· taurant. But l still want to have a party at home. What should l do? What should I tell my parents -that it's not fair? 
Gentle Reader Better tell them more than that -enough to con­vince them that you could hold a party that was fair to them and to the family property. 
Instead ofgoing to your parents with a complaint, go to them with a plan -how many people you would invite (including character recommendations on each), what you would do to prepare, how you would keep the guests entertained, how you would react ifone of them got out ofhand, and how you would clean trp'it1tl«irward. 
Miss Manners assures you that a child with an eagerlook and a list 
is practically irresistible. A child with that old whine about things 
not being fair is highly resistible. 
Movies Steve Martin not a funny ntan in The Lonely Guy 
•

by Chtp Block 
I. 1 •
Jeatures CO ummst 
A
n advertisement for a Steve Mar­
tin comedy special on cable 
television credited him with "an un­
predictable brand ofhumor." Martin 
proved the advertisement true with 
various stage gags and funny stories. 
Unfortunately, his film career has 
not produced the same unpredic­
tability. I recently viewed Martin's 
new film "The Lonely Guy." I 
predicted that it wasn't going to be 
funny and I was right. 
To be honest, I really had hoped 
the film would be worth watching 
because I always liked Steve Martin. 
However, I believe it is time for 
Steve to return to the stage and leave 
the movies to Steven Spielburg, 
bloody shootouts, and teenage sex 
ftlms designed to squeeze as much 
nudity into an R-rated picture as pos­
sible. 
The film tells the story ofa man, dumped by his live-in girlfriend, trying to learn the ways ofa single, unattached male. Martin plays this poor-soul, trying to beat the monster called loneliness, with Charles Grodin, another lonely guy, as a sidekick. That is all there is to the movie: a two line plot. 
Believe it or not, the lack ofa plot is not this movie's biggest problem. The movie simply lacks unity. Each scene seems like a one-act 
The Bindery 

vaudeville skit without connecting to any other. "The Lonely Guy" is more like an hour and a halfofSteve Martin videos on MTV. There are some running-gags throughout the film, but they are few and not very funny. I can envisage the writers of this film sitting at a large oval table, each saying "hey, wouldn't it be fun­ny ifSteve did ...," and no two writers listening to what the other has to say. 
A good example ofthis picture's lack ofcontinuity can be found in the opening scene. An unseen nar­rator starts telling the story until the camera zooms in on Martin, who then takes over the narration. About three minutes into the film Martin stops narrating -only to start again, a halfhour later. Sometimes Martin even talks directly into the camera, for no apparent reason. It's all rather confusing. 
Another problem with this film is the way it treats some very delicate subjects. Scenes meant to create laughter create sadness. The audience can only partially identify with the characters because of the way the material is presented. For example, at one point in the film, Grodin contemplates suicide while standing on the edge ofthe Manhat­tan Bridge in New York. While he stands there, three or four bodies go flying by and splash in the river. This issupposed to be a joke on the num­
berofsuicides in New York, but if the audience identifies with Grodin's character, they are serious­ly concerned with his life and won't laugh at the sick humor. Ifthe movie had been a Monty Python ftlm where the fate ofthe characters really doesn't matter, the flying bodies would be funny. They are not in this movie. The film does stumble on some interesting viewpoints ofloneliness. In one scene Martin wakes up in the morning and starts talking to his pil­low. He pretends the pillow is a lady who he has just met, and he makes small talk with his imaginary friend. I wondered how many other men are so lonely that they talk to pillows, or chairs, or even cardboard people. The scene is supposed to be funny but instead it is provocative. Unfor­tunately, the movie contains a little bit ofeverything ...except humor. Most ofthe acting cannot be evaluated because ofthe poor quality ofthe script. Grodin does sustain his drab character well and Steve Martin gives a few funny ex­pressions. Everybody else is buried with the lousy writing. 
I guess the best way to rate thi~ mm is to say that you're better offto wait for it to be shown on Home Box Office than to pay four dollars at the movie theater. 

A new insight on C.S. Lewis 
by Beth DeSchryver 
features staffwriter 
C 
.S. Lewis' The Dark Tower and OtherStories, contains not only several previously unseen works of Lewis, but also some perceptive in­sights into the how and why of the author's writing. Lewis' friend and editor, Walter Hooper, prefaces this posthumous collection with com­mentaries on the unfinished works. The book not only reveals ideas latent in Lewis' mind but the begin­nings ofconcepts and characters which appear in his later, major works. 
Almost halfthe book consists of "The Dark Tower," a fragment ofa novel salvaged from C.S. Lewis' The story introduces an interesting character, Dr. Elwin Ransom, who 

states that space travel is imp-ossible 
at this time, unless one could also 
travel through time. 
The story portrays Dr. Ransom as a secondary figure in the develop­ment and use ofthe chronoscope, an invention which Ransom and his Cambridge friends believe can see into another time. Gradually, they realize that the world viewed through this device does not represent any known past,and it can­not fit the future. The true nature of this Othertime is not realized until Scudamour, one of the machine's in­
ferred into his future Othertime 
double. 
Scudamour finds himselftrapped 
in a horrible world. It is a place 
where men with giant strings 
protruding from their foreheads 
turn others into automatons. They 
worship an idol consisting ofa num­
ber ofbodies with one huge, evil 
looking head. Scudamour attempts 
to discover what this world is and 
how he can return home. 
The original manuscript was mis­sing several pages, and frustratingly breaks offduring Scudamour's inves­tigations ofOthertime's experi­ments on time. What this fragment does reveal are some of Lewis' ideas about time and time travel. It also provides an outline of themes and characters which would later be used in the published sequels toOut ofthe Silent Planet, Perelandia and ThatHideousStrength -particular­ly the latter. 
Hooper's preface is especially helpful in pointing out these ele­ments. He provides an essay concerning possible endings Lewis may have had in mind for the novel -based on comments and writings of the author -combined with a knowledge ofLewis' personality. 
The book also contains some completed short stories ofLewis, as well as another fragment ofa novel, most ofwhich center around psy­chological or mythological themes. These are approached only surface­ly, with references to probable sources for Lewis' ideas. Without spoiling the endings ofthese stories, I will say that they surprise the reader. 

Because C.S. Lewis did not revise "The Dark Tower" for publication, it tends to be a bit wordy in places ­but it is still enjoyable, suspenseful, and fascinating. I would highly recommend The Dark Tower and OtherStories to anyone -especial­ly to those who have read Lewis' other works. My advice: don't skip the preface. It is invaluable tool for a better understanding ofboth the stories and the mind ofC.S. Lewis. 

Thursday, February 23, 1984-page 8
Sports Briefs 
Houston, Oklahoma win 
DePaul avenges loss to Dayton
Cheerleaders wishing to try out for the 1984-85 squad must attend a meeting on February 27 at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. The 
Associated Press game into a rout. 
LAWRENCE, Kan. -Freshman
captain of next year's team will be Bill Thallemer. Call him at 233· Tim McCalister, playing with a stress
4531 for more details. -The Obsert'er fracture of the right leg, scored 3 I ROSEMONT, Ill. -Kevin Holmes, 
HOUSTON Michael Young points and Jan Pannell dropped in Tony Jackson and Dallas Comegys 
scored 22 points and Alvin Franklin five points in overtime last night to led a second-halfsurge last night that 
hit eight of his 16 points in the boost eighth-ranked Oklahoma past powered fifth-ranked and revenge­
closing minutes as third-ranked Kansas 92-82 and into at least a share seeking DePaul to a 79·59 college 
Houston broke away from Rice last of the Big Eight championship.An interhall swimming meet is scheduled for basketball victory over Dayton. night for a 70-54 Southwest Con­Calvin Thompson drilled a 25­Ft·bruary 28. Hall n·presentatives must turn in a list of entries to The Blue Demons, 20-2, avenged ference victory. footer at the buzzer to forge a 74-74 
lknnis Stark the day before the meet or the interhall office, C2, ACC. a 72-71 loss at Dayton Saturday in a The victory gave the Cougars a tie and keep the Jayhawks alive. For more information on the ten-event meet, call swimming coach game in which they. blew an I 1-24-3 season record and extended All-American Wayman Tisdale Stark at 239-6222. -The Observer point lead, a defeat that cost them 
their winning streak to 37 con­added 28 points for the Sooners, No. 3 ranking. 
secutive league games. who improved to 23·3 overall with This time the Blue Demons held 
Houston is 13-0 in SWC play going the victory and I0-1 with three fast once they broke open the game 
into Sunday's showdown against games left in the Big Eight. Kansas, and left the Flyers with a 15-9 mark 
I Ith-ranked Arkansas at Hofheinz which trailed by seven at halftime to deal Dayton's NCAA tournament 
Pavilion. Rice dropped to 9-1 5 for but briefly led by three in the second hopes a serious blow. 
the season and 5·9 in conference half, dropped to 16-8 aml 7-4,
The ND Skateboard club will hold an organiza­Holmes finished with 19 points, play. second place in the league.tional meeting tonight at 6:30 in LaFortune Little Theatre. Any new Jackson had 17 and Comegys added 
Houston took control of the first Tisdale, who leads the Big Eightmembers wishing to join should attend the meeting. Ifyou have any 14. Dayton's Roosevelt Chapman led half when Rice went scoreless over a with almost 28 points a game, hit a questions, call Bob at 1489. -The Observer all scorers with 27 points. 
2:07 span while the Cougars were three-point play to put the Sooners The first half was nip-and-tuck 
scoring seven unanswered points. on top 70-64 with I:46 to go. But with DePaul finally forging a 32-30 
Franklin turned the game into a Kansas freshman Mark Turgeon sank lead on a tip-in by substitute Lemone 
rout midway in the second half two unanswered baskets and KellyLampley. 
when he hit four straight baskets for Knight dunked a follow shot to cut Comegys scored to open the 
a 59-41 Houston lead. Oklahoma's lead to 71-70 with 30 second halfand then Holmes hit two
The ND-SMC Sailing club will hold a spring or­Akeem Olajuwon scored 13 seconds left. 
successive baskets and DePaul never

ganizational meeting tonight at 6:30 in Room 204 ofO'Shaughnessy points for the Cougars, and Mike Kansas fouled McCalister with 17 
relinquished the lead.

Hall. All must attend, particularly those planning to compete in New Cunningham and Tyrone Washing­seconds left, and the freshman guard
With Holmes, Comegys and Jack­

Orleans. Complete spring schedule will be discussed. Dues will be ton added 15 points for Rice. calmly sank both free throws to 
son scoring with consistency, the

collected so there is no excuse -The Obsen1er make it 73·70. 
Blue Demons suddenly turned the 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts classitkd advertising from 9 a.m. unti14 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifkds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters erda 
NOTICES  LOST: ONE PEARL ACC MONOGRAM CINDY 283-2856.  NECKLACE IN ROOM. CALL  Need a nde -lo Chicago (Fiossmore/Homewood or thereabouts!) on Friday affer 5 p.m. Please call L1sa 7953  NEED MARQUETTE TIX Mike or Ke1tn 1180 HELP! I NEED 2 MARQ. TIX. MAKE  ND beer bongs made to order. SMC 5485. LETS ALL GET NAKED  GIRLS--Need someone to warm you on those long. cold nights? Call our serv1ce at 3727.  
COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE 277·6045 WILL PICK UP & DELIVER ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT· HERS I Surf'a up but our prices aren't. From )u.t S109.00 • apend 7 tun-ftlled deya In aunny Floride. Call lor youraell  LOST HELPII 14kt gold earnng. shield shape. 1.25 1n. d1ameter REWARD!!! if found please call 234· 1170 affer 5 best LOST: N.D. KEY CHAIN (4 KEYS) SATURDAY 2/18 BETWEEN 3:30 & 7 P M BETWEEN THE ARCHIE BLDG. AND GRACE HALL IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL 1641 EDDY  Now accepting applications at LEE"S BBO·Must be 21 Come in or Call OFF·CAMPUS NEXT YEAR? WE NEED ANOTHER ROOMMATE! CALL CHIP OR DAVE 8831 Need nde to Indiana U. 2-24 to 2·26. Pleasecall284·5776.  GOBS OF$. CALL ED AT t542 HELP I NEED 2 MU GA"S. CALL DAVE AT1801. NEED MARQUETTE TIX. BILL 1059 NEED MARQUETTE TIX Call Chip 8831 NEED MARQUETTE TIX Call Sheila 3484  SC Film Senes. South Afnca. The Dis­carded People and Country Lovers. 7 pm at Center for Soctal Concerns-Free. Ots­cussion with P Walshe ASPEN for Spnng Break! call Joe McBnde8877  UFE IN THE SPIRIT SEMINAR. To help people open their lives to the Holy Spin! 7:30p.m. in the Log Chapel for seven con­secuttve Fndays (except break), begin­ntng thts week. No charge. For tnqutnesor registration. call 232-5689. Dr Who· Sarah Jane was leff 1n So Croydon. not So. Cro1den' Thais why you·re always lost.  
or organize a small group and travel FREEl Great lor clubs, tool Call LUV TOURS (800) 311&-2006, aak lor An· nette. Are you 1n need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad· venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! ARMY  LOST CHEAP LITTLE CAMERA at JPW D1nner Saturday n1ght. Its brown and be1ge. 11 has a bUilt-In flash. and it is held together by a p1ece of tape But it has some JPW photos on the f1lm 1ns1de. If found. please call Gib at 1682. FOUND A maroon and gray plaid wool  FOR SALE Want to know what"s really g01ng on in the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL  MARQ TIX: need 3 badly. Call Pat x3537 NEED TWO MARQUETTE TICKETS. CALL BILL AT x1763. Need 2 GA tickets for Marquette. Please call Dave. x1765.  WASHINGTON DC SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS WHEN. THURSDAY 2/23 7·8 PM WHERE SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE COST $65 ROUND TRIP $350NE-WAY KP Buck the MOOSE is lonely. Take him for a walk. The MJ Cor~  Shaun Hopk1ns is not ROTC. but he is the TyD·Drawer Man I 'Horn. have you checked your boots late· ly? Davey. have you checked your golf bag lately? That"s nght. the TyD-Drawer Man stnkes again!  
ROTCI See LTC Bob Sk1nner or CPT Anne A1eman 1n the ROTC Bu11d1ng (239· 6264) WASHINGTON DC SPRING BREAK BUS SIGN-UPS THURSDAY 2/23 7·8 PM SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE  scarf at the Eng1neenng Auditonum after The Chosen. Call Patnck at 1754. lost TAN CASHMERE SWEATER on Feb. 21 also a CASIO CALCULATOR WATCH at the GMAT tests 1n the Eng1neenng Auditonum Please call Ron at 277·8452 ~Found. REWARD  CATHOUC REPORTER, the only newspaper of the U.S. Church. For sub­scription information and a free sample copy. call Paul at 277·4851. Audlovox In-dash AM-FM cassette. Jensen 4 1/2 convertible speakers. Never used. $100.00.239-7516 ·Susan·  TED HESBURGH IS A GAY old fellow who would help me II he could, but I · need a pair of Marquette tickets, and my old pal seems to be out ol town ag~~ln. II YOU can help me, I'm aure Ted would really appreciate It (II you kr ow whet f mean). Call Ed at 277-4851 or  Save the egg.. Save the 8gg.. EGG DROP CONTEST tuesday February 28 Info. in C.E. off1ce. rm 156 Fitz. Save The Egg... BOX FOUND · on Phily bus retur"'ng from fall break. conta1ns g~rl"s  NEED RIDERS TO D.C./NO VA. FOR SPRING BREAKCALLJAMESAT 1485 THE LAWS OF MR GOODWENCH. LAW NO 6 (The true pllpose of women) Women are like footballs. they·re fun to play w1th but made to kick around!! I  
ENOUGHIll Hey guys. cool rt with the sweats and tack· ets. okay? It was ONLY the Liberty Bowl! EXPERT TYPIST 277·8534 AFTER 5:30  FOUND: Whet looks like a car key by the Archltactural Bldg. Call Paul Bundschuh at 3108 to Identify and It'a youre. LOST!LOST!LOST! MEN"S RED VELCRO WALLET AT ACC DURING JPW COCKTAIL DANCE CALL CHIP 8831 " .............. . FOUND.A PAIR OF GLASSES. IN CASE. NEAR KEENAN"S SIDE DOOR. IF YOU  8-5. MAXELL XL 2 & TDK SA 90 tapes, $2.50 ea. Call Dan Meak1n 277·3306. Rossi skis Tyrolea bindings New and unused At room 109 Keenan OC 2729749 Mercury Capn-1974-for sale, needs much body work but drives well-$300.00. Cathy at 233-2681  284-5333. Go ahead-make my day. WANTED 5 Marquette student or GA"s call Jim Forde at 277-8450 NEED MAI1QUETTE TICKETS (STUD . OR GA) FOR VISITING FRIENDS. CALL TODD AT 8214. NEED MARQUETTE TIX $$$ CALL KATHY 1284. NEED MAROJETTE TIX FOR TURGID  shoes.dishes.etc. Call 8877 COSMOS FEVER.........CATCH ITiflffff ANY students NO or SMC Interested 1n SKIING March 2·4 at Sugarloaf Mt. 1n Cedar. Mi $85 w1th rental $60 w/o rentals Includes trans.. lodging. and liff t1x Call Rick at8840 by Fnday. a suspension of reality ned v feb. 25  I LOST a dark blue jacket w1th red plaid limng somewhere in LaFortune late Tues· day "'ght. My name is1n 1t •• J. F. Whalen Please call Joe at 8423 1f you f1nd rt. NED 1 made you nauseous NED 2 ter· rlfied you NED 3 tw1sted your body NED 4 caused bra1n damage AND NOW NED 5 BE THERE NO EXCUSES HEY MATT OTOOLE WHAT IS THAT THING THAT CRAWED UP ON YOUR LIP AND DIED Ill  
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL IS COM­ING SOON I STAY TUNEDTOTHISBAT CHANNEL FOR MORE DETAILS.  CAN READ THIS. CALL 3234 TO IDEN· TIFY AND CLAIM HEY JOE C. I FOUND YOUR SEAL  Canon AE·1 with telephoto lens, 50 mm lena, and Flash 200.00 Call Jim at 272·5289.  BUDS$$$CALL MEL AT 1865 If you have MARQUETTE tickets. I need them. Call John at 1208.  ATTENTION NORTHEASTERNERSlin· tere.ted In living on the New Jersey shore this summer? Rooms may be avallable•..call Pat at 8762.  HEY SUZANNE I MISS YOU VERY MUCH AND I CANT WAIT TO SEE YOU TE AMO MUGHO TU NOVIO !I!  
Better call the funeral home..lt looks like another SLOW DEATH  BEACH FACT BOOK IN THE SHOWERS OF P E CALL 3884 AS.K FOR BETTY LOST .NO sp~rrt. pride and sell-respect Why? They let girls 1nl  FOR SALE: Ticket to London, leave Chicago March 15 at 8:30pm & return March 26 at 4:45pm. $550 · Call289·7029 or even1ngs 282·1568 ask for Judy.  HELP!! Need three GAs for Marquette Game. Please call 3211. WILL PAY $60 II NEED 2 MU·ND GA"S  And just who does this Sundrycharacter think he is, anyway? LEE"S BBQ ANNUAL RAFFLE. 1st pnze  UNCLE JIM· Look at you now. you stupid --I Now that I have your attentiOn. hope you have fun and rm really glad you·re here. ·BUZZP.S. H!MOMDADandDON­ 
NEED CASH? Earn $500& aech achool year, 2-4 (flexlbla) houre per week placing and filling poatera on cempua. Serloua workera only;-give r..:om­mend.tlona. 1-800-243-111179.  FOR RENT  NEED RIDE EAST ON 1·80/90 TO EXIT 4/5. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME FRI. 2·24. CALL JIM 8674172  CALL DAN 1603 URGENT!!!II! NEEDED: 5 Commencement Tickets. Call Susan 3611. I NEED MARQUETTE TIX ··8046  6 Rib tip dinners. 2nd pnze 6 Mmi trp din­ners: For sale at Lee·s or from NO/Lees employees. D. H. and LSE. What a match  NA! Happy Birthday MARY PACE Hope you get kisses on your face Wear you red sat1n.wear your red lace We're try1ng to take up a lot of space( like you do) Aner  
DAYTONA BEACH. MARCH 17-24. Spend Spring Bra... getting a tan In Sunny Florida. 8 Daya/7 Nights at the INTERNATIONAL INN on the -hlor only $t39 per peraon. For lnlormllllon and reaervatlona call SUMMIT TOURS 1-800-325-0439.  FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3604/288·0955. NEED 2 RESPONSIBLE. FESTIVE. HOUSEMATES. 1/2 BLK. FROM BARS AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS. $75/MO 287-9252 BEFORE 9AM/AFTER 12AM  TICKETS NEED GAS FOR DEPAUL OR MAR· QUETTE CALL 8057 MARQUETTE nX? I need two student t1ckets to the Marquette game. Please call 1368  I WOULD LIKE A TICIET TO MAR· QUETTE. CALLMIKEAT8015. NEED MARQUETTE STU"S AND GA"S CALL TOM 8591 MIKE 8585 PERSONALS  CONGRATULATIONS DANA We'll see you in London next year Dana Bo.ton Club Cheers· for beers happy hour switched to Maerl'e Dell. tonight from 8 to 10 (50 cent drafts). Members and friends welcome. Spring break bus sign-ups ($115 or $50 non-refundable deposit mandatory) Feb. 28 at 7 p.m. 1n LaFortune. First come, flrst served  you've been out and drunk your case The n1ght is still young there are men to chase Wear your red sat~n.wear your black lace Cap off the eve"'ng w1th a "'ght at your place In the morning.when you anse Do not be 1n total surpnse When you see those unfamiliar Jeans Vou·ll know it was more than JUSt a dream Happy B1rthday.S Alley WANTED Some maturity Don"t see  
"t<ev~n  
SAVE A LIFEI!I  Boston club spnng break bus s1gn-ups  
My father will KILL me if I don"t come up  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR.  ($115  or  $50  non-refundable  deposit  "DILLON  BOYS  ·  DONT  UNDERES·  
LOST: SILVER WATCH WITH GOLD SCREWS. POLEK/QUARTZ WITH ROMAN NUMERALS MAY HAVE BEEN LEFT IN ROCK. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL CONNIE 4526.  SOPHMORESI Interested 1n becoming an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Sk1nner or CPT Anne R1eman '"the ROTC Building (239­6264)  with Marquette tickets lor h1m and his VISiting friends. He"s VERY popular. but also very wealthy. so money is no problem. Call Jam1e at 8704. Thanx. $$$  CARRY OUT TIL 3AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE mandatory) Feb. 28 at 7 p.m. in BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. LaFortune. First come, flrst served Amy. 2 days until Leonard Bo.ton Club Cheers· for beers happy hour switched to Maerl's Dell. to"'ght ...-..•....:...........................................~._,~• .,ctrortUll~ 10 (50 cent draft beers). Mem· DEAR C.C. 3 WEEKS TO GO THINKING bers and friends w  1  TIMATE US WE GOT THE BIG RED ONE! MS ROEFtiG "ou MATERIALIST! Al­ways 1n pursUit of RICHES! HA HA! Dar· r~andPete  
FOUND GOLD STRAP WATCH · 2 WEEKS AGO NEAR THE ROCK' IN· QUIRE AT LOST AND FOUND OR CALL 2838766  DESSPERATELY need 3 Marqtte Tix for family.Call Dave at 1045I .......... ... .. .. . 1 -Need ndes to Daytona for Spnng Break Call C1ndy 4407 SMC  Need 3 MARQUETTE ticketsI Call Laura x8t 30 $$$  OF YOU ALOT LOVE JOHN ORIOLES FEVER. .. catch 1!!!! What ever happened to Chuck Woolery?  lon HEADS· AUILuey WINS I TAILS· EE354 Student LOSES!  RAY•<AY Were hav1ng a beastly t1me th1s sen•ester when we see you. Jack Drop us a postcard from parad1se. and watch out for RED (Mary) snow We II take lhe d1amond necklace for 16. I 16. Bill  

The Observer Thursday, February 23, 1984-page 9 
NHL Standings 
Metzler 
continued from page 12 
In this year's NHL playoff format. the top four teams in each division make the playoffs, regardless of over· 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE 
Adams Division 

W L T GF GA Pis. Buffalo 40 16 6 255 203 86 Basion 38 20 4 273 206 80 Quebec 33 22 6 279 212 72 Montreal 28 29 5 235 227 61 Hartford 20 32 8 220 249 48 
Patrick Division 

N.Y. Islanders 37 22 2 264 215 76 Washington 35 23 4 237 187 74 NY. Rangers 33 20 8 243 228 74 Philadelphia 32 19 9 260 216 73 Pittsburgh 13 43 5 190 287 31 New Jersey 13 44 5 180 266 31 
all league standing. 
Yesterday's Results 
Detroit 5, Minnesota 2 Winnipeg 8, New Jersey 5 Edmonton 9, Pittsburgh 2 Chicago 4, Washington 2 Boston 6, Los Angeles 3 
Tonight's Games 
Buffalo at Hartford Winnipeg at Montreal Quebec at N.Y. Rangers Minnesota at Philadelphia St. Louis at N.Y. Islanders Vancouver at Calgary 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvlslon 
W L T GF GA Pta Edmonton 44 14 5 354 259 93 Calgary 25 22 13 232 242 63 Winnipeg 22 27 22 27 10 66 Vancouver 23 34 6 241 260 52 Los Angeles 19 31 12 249 283 50 
Norris Dlvlalon Minnesota 30 27 5 269 273 65 Chicago 24 32 7 215 238 55 Detroit 23 32 7 232 258 53 St. Louis 23 33 6 223' 251 52 Toronto 21 34 7 230 297 49 

Michigan-Dearborn and Alabama­Huntsville made you look past the league and gave hope for the rest of the season." 
Notre Dame now sports an im­pressive 21-3-1 overall record and a 13-2-0 CSCHL mark with two non­league-regular-season games and two playoff games remaining. And Mike Metzler has played an in­strumental part in the team's great success. 
"My goal this season was to score 20 goals," he says. "The two I got last weekend gave me that. Now any­thing else is a bonus to the team. I also hoped we could win 23 to 25 games, and we certainly still have a 
llil1983Mnler 

chance at that." 
Along with hockey, Metzler has been a member of the Notre Dame baseball team since his junior year where he has played first base, third base and served as a designated hit­ter. "I played in five of eight games this fall and did well," he says. "Fall baseball is a stepping stone to the Spring, so I am very optimistic." 
As his four years under the Golden Dome slowly wind to a close, Metzler has begun to reflect on his Notre Dame days. 
"I'll miss playing the sports," he says. "After this, I can still play, but here the goals are more defined. You're really working for some­thing." 
"The friends I've met here, I'll al­ways have. What I'll miss~ not being able to see them in person a lot." 
Career-wise, Metzler is un­decided. He has been interviewing with different companies and hopes to land a job near his home. 
"Knowing I made it· through Notre Dame and received a degree will provide a real sense of ac­complishment that no one can take away," he says. 
"We will be part of an elite crowd," he adds. "Too often, though, it is easy to get caught up in that, and be thought of as a stereotype; but I like to be myself Everyone needs a sense of in­dividuality. You can't be yourself if you're trying to be something you're not. I just want to be Mike Metzler and what he stands for." 
Irish 
continued from page 12 
battle might be inactivity. With the NIT not beginning until March 13 at the earliest, the Irish will have to keep sharp the next three weeks if they hope to be ready to face the NIT field -competition that will be much tougher than Manhattan. 
But there is one blessing to the upcoming two-gamcs-in-13-days stretch. It will give Phelps' Irish a chance to heal the injuries that have reduced them to a nine-man travel­ing roadshow and deprived them of any rebounding edge. 
"Hopefully we'll have (Tim) Kempton and (Jo)o) Buchanan back in a month," said Phelps. "Remember, we were 14-5 when Kempton got hurt. With him in the lineup, we'll be back to that level." 
And, just maybe, back here to the Garden for the NIT Championship. 
Irish Items-joe Howard, with 10 points and 5 assists, was the game's MVP ... Royal played all 40 minutes. "He was a real plus for us. especially inside," said Phelps . 
POLITICS 
Mondale's mastered, Cranston s a creep, McGovernsa moron, and Hart is too deep. Jackson can preach, and Hollings can teach, but both are too distant for the White House to reach. Askew and Glenn round out the crew: What (in Stepans name) should a conservative do? Some say "Forget 'em! Reagans my man; Mock Conventions are futile­l'djust as soon get a tan." But we must be pragmatic; we must see the right: Moderates and Conservatives should give Liberals a fight. "How about Reubin?" the untempered scream, not ever waking from their overreaching dream. Ifyou're realistic and not "offthe cuff': there's only one man he's the Right Stuff Glenn may not be perfect (next to Reagan he's lame), 
BUT NEVER sbould a liberal represent Notre Dame. 
Attend the Glenn Rally 
from 4:30-7:00, 2/24, in Alumni's Party Room. Paid by N.D. Con­servatives for tbe Right Stuff not th£ Glenn campaign (277-4283) 
'. : .~· . 
., 


The Observer Thursday, February 23, 1984-page 10 
Steelers' highest-paid player ever 
NBA Standings
Woodley traded to Pittsburgh 
NBA 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -David Woodley, banished to the bench last season despite quarterbacking the Miami Dolphins to the Super Howl in 1982, became the highest-paid player in Pittsburgh Steelers history Wednes­day after being acquired for a third­round draft choice. 
The Dolphins. committed to 1983 rookie sensation Dan Marino, also may get an undisclosed 198'; draft choke from the Stc:dc:rs, who are 
Bouts 
continued from page 12 
thing the cluh could not afford with 
the: decrease in attendance. 
A conflict with dates was also a big 

problem. The ACC officials had 
allowed the event the days of 
Fehruary IH, 20, and 25. The Boxing 
Club felt that it would be better off 
holding the fights at a later date. It 
also felt that the finals should be 
fought soon after the semifinals. The 
five-day gap between the 20th and 
25th was too much. 
The membe rs ofthe club decided to look for alternatives and found they could use Stepan Center for a minimal fee. The better atmosphere was an added bonus. Scheduling was also made easier as the club was able to get three good dates -a Sundav afternoon (March 4 ), a Wednesda}• night ( March 7 ), and a Friday night (Man:h 9). 
Realizing that the change in loca­tion was not enough to draw more people to the fights, the club also made a push for more fighters and more campus awareness. By sending lc:tters to former fighters who had "retired" and emphasizing the im­portance of this year's event, the club received an outstanding tur­nout of boxers. 
"We: have 60 fighters this year, which is the biggest field since I've been here," says Perino. "We only had 46 last year, so we've had an in­crease of 14 boxers in just a year." 
The group's efforts arc also being rewarded as far as advertising the fights is conn_.rned. An attractive poster has drawn a good amount of notice, not only on campus, but also in South Bend. 
The club will find out how suc­cessful its efforts are when it sells tickets next week. The tickets, which will bt· sold in the dining halls at lunch next week. cost $3 for the three-day package. The club's ul­timate goal is to match 1977's total crowd of I0,000 for the three dates. Last year's attendance t1gure ( 5,000 in three nights) was one of the lowt·st c:vt-r. 
Applications for SENIOR BAR MANAGERS are now available at Student Activities. 
Applications must be completed and returned by FRIDAY, FEBRUARY24. 
worried about the sore right arm of veteran Terry Bradshaw. 
"There's a great opportunity here for David to take the reins," Coach Chuck Noll said. "We're not sure ...about Terry, but we expect it to be just about the same situation as last season." 
Bradshaw. 35, had surgery in March on his right elbow and played in just one game in 1983. He said he won't know until just before training camp if he can play. 
Woodley, at 23 the youngest quar­terback to start in a Super Bowl, now becomes the likely starter for the on­ly team in NFL history to win four Super Bowls. The only other quar­terback on the Steders' roster is seldom-used Mark Malone. 
"I'd like to win a Super Bowl here," said Woodley, benched a month into the Dolphins' 1983 season. 
Woodley, a free agent, and his agent, Howard Slusher, negotiated with Steelers' executive Jim Boston for over a week before reaching con­tract terms. Woodley then had to go through the formality of re-signing with the Dolphins, since he was a 
********************************** 
Men's Hair Styling •tIts finest ll 
'The Knlghta olthe C•sfle' 
We •-tyo•to look yo11r beetr wtt•a diRiaetlve aa.to•
d..._...,.•airalt &o• tile eJlpel't 
~at tile Ka18•a.. 
Haln:at. Sha•poo Blow Drv. eo..... R.......S15.M 
Now$LH~~~ 
~
.........._.... ­
We.,.. olllp..,.,.,..Jro-c..ep.. 
Hrs: Tue•. Wed: 8:30-5:30  
54533 Terrace Lane  Thur, Frl: 8:3M:30  272·0312  
Across from Martin's  Sat: 8:()()-2:30  277 •1118  
St.~-~  Closed Mon.  . 

****************liH*********** 
VAN LINES Runs this weelend ~-Fri. 'It Sat. -movies, shopping, dining~,. Uriiv~sity Park Mall and Town & Country. 50¢ rt'ound trip. Pay as you board atND Circle, Grotto, SMC Holy Cross Circle Hourly departures begin at 5:00 on friday and 
4:00 on Sat. 
free agent, before he could be traded to the Steders. 
If the Steelers had signed Wood­ley as a free agent, they would have lost two first-round draft picks un­der the NFL's compensation rules. 
Woodley, once a Louisiana State quarterback and termed a better runner than passer, reportedly will earn nearly S700,000 a year for three years. 
Once the NFL's lowest-paid start­ing quarterback, Woodley didn't deny the hefty numbers, nearly twice the reported !350,000 salary that Bradshaw, a future Hall of Fameer, was paid last season. 
"I spent four years with Miami as the lowest-paid quarterback in the NFL," Woodley said. "I was the third lowest-paid quarterback in the NFL when I played in the Super Bowl. I've had my time." 
Steders President Dan Rooney does not believe Woodley's signing will upset what previously has been a carefully maintained salary structure. Veteran stars Jack Lam­bert, Franco Harris and John Stal­lworth are paid considerably less than Woodley. 
. · 11 
· 

ilt£o11cmi E:mtte, 

Boston Philadelphia New York 
New Jersey 
Washmgton 
Detroit 
Milwaukee 
Atlanta 
Chicago 
Cleveland 
Indiana 
Trouble ReadingYour StudentSavingsCard? 

Call today for a complete examination and 20% OFF any pair of glasses with your student savings card. 
• 
Large selection of fashion frames 

• 
All types of contact lenses 

• 
Prescriptions filled 

• 
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 

• 
Dr. Patrick Albert 





ProfessionalVtSion 
ASSOCIATES 
1635 N. Ironwood • 277-1161 
Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
w  L  Pet.  GB  
42  13  764  -Utah  
34  20  630  7.5  Dallas  
33  22  .600  9 Kansas C1ty  
27  29  482 15.5 San Antomo  
25  30  .455  17 Denver  
Central Division  Houston  
31  23  .574  
32  24  .571  -Los Angeles  
29  27  518  3 Portland  
22  31  415  8 5 Sea«<e  
20  33  377 10.5 PhoeniX  
16  38  296  15 Golden State  
San D•ego  
Yesterday's Results  

Portland 104. Washington 101 DetrOit 114. New York 111 Chicago 121. Indiana 111 Dallas 112. Houston 106 Denver 127. San Antomo 121 Seattle 121. Los Angeles 114 San D1ego 114. Boston 1 07 
Western Conference  
Midwest Division  
w  L  Pet.  
33  22  .600  
30  26  536  
24  30  444  
25  33  431  
23  34  404  
22  34  .393  
Pacific Division  
35  19  648  
34  23  596  
29  25  .537  
25  30  .455  
25  31  446  
18  37  327  



GB 
3.5 8.5 9.5 11 11 5 
2.5 6 10.5 
11 

17.1> 


Informational Meeting For: 
Daytona Trip 
tonight, Thurs., Feb. 23 LaFortune Little Theatre 
7pm 

DAN AYKRDYD EDDIE MURPHY 
They're not just getting rich...They're getting even. 
Some very funnybusiness. 
THIS WEEKEND AT THE ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM 
----------~--~--------~~ 
~4(Jt~C3l~--------------------------------------Th--u_r~--ay_,_F_eb~ru--ary~2~3-,~1~98~4~-~p~a-g~e~l-1
Campus
Bloom Connty 

Mellish 
WHAT AM I GOING TP 

I'M Fou~ BOOKS BEJIJN{)
DO! I'VE DONE So LITTLIO 
IN fNGl/SJI... MY Sf/'ll/YAK
WORK IN ~y ART (LA5S, MV 
TEACJIER l»ESN'T RECOGNIZE 
T!ACJifk IS ON THE VfN6E 
ME ... A TEST TOMORROW 
Of VIIUNCE•., 
AT8:0()Af1 .. , 
0 

.• 0 
Q
0 

.0 

Guindon Richani Guindon 
"Want to apllt • Manwlch? I"can't eat a whole
-·" 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS  36 Kind of  60 Keatsian  
1 Actual  palm  works  
5 Medicinal  37 Corolla  61  -a million  
root  part  62 Cuckoopint  
10 Negri of old films  39 Sports group  63 Eroded 64 En-(fen·  
14 Strongbox 15 Join  40 Sash 41 Lofty  cing term) 65 Norman city  
16 Aroma 17 Data from the media 20 Inhabitant: suff. 21 Certain  42 Emanate 43 Data from the jury 47 -out (sup· plement) 48 Calhoun the  DOWN 1 Run at top speed  
clerk  actor  2 Amor  
22 Lost 23 Amerind  49 Source of wine  3 Peak 4 On the­ 
24 Over: pref. 25 Data from  52 Tropical lizard  (fleeing) 5 Lower  
judicial archives  54 Utmost  ranking 6 Certain  
33 Foreign  57 Data from written  joints 7 Vocation  
34 Russ. sea  chronolo·  8 Onethat  
35 Mauna­ gies  does: suff.  


'Tfl£ P111ER -PAL.? THE. Pl ... ? 


The Far Side Gary larson 
Berke Breathed 

9 Church bench 10 Kind of 
justice 11 Percentage 12 Theater box 13 Surface 18 Frequently 19 Suit 
feature 
23 Great Barrier Reef 
24 Epochal 25 "-La Mancha" 26 Plausible excuse 27 eager's 
score 28 Vows 29 Monastery 
man 30 Derived 
from oil 31 Entree 32 Titled 
ladies 37 Evergreen 
38 Coal size 50 Make over 51 Maple
39 Salver genus
41 Backpacker 52 Rowlands42 Hairdos 
of film
44 Unseat 53 Ger. river 45 Formal 54 Ibsendance heroineflower 55 Faithful46 Michel the 56 Paeanchoreog· 58 Cur
rapher 49 Prosper 59 Tic· --toe 
Wedne~ay's Solution 


•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, More on SPSSx , II 5 CCMB 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Five Years Experience With Minimum Induced Loss Rotors (Propellers and Windmill)," Prof. E. Eugene Larrabee, Room I2 Aerospace Building 

•3:30 
p.m.-Lecture, "Transitions in Mental Per­formance," Dr. Robert McCall. Haggar Auditorium 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Grail Movement in the United States, 1940-1962: The Role of Woman in the Lay Apostolate." Rev. Alden V. Brown. Library Lounge 

•4 
p.m.. -Radiation Lab Seminar, "Excited Statt: Interactions. of Indolic Compounds with Amino Acids," Prof. Carlos M. Previtali, Rad Lab Con· ference Theatre 

•4:15 
p.m. -Presentation and Fil.tn, "How to Steal a Million...A Beginners Guide to Computer Fraud," Ernst and Whinney, ND Room of Morris Inn, Sponsored by Alpha Beta Psi, 4:30 p.m. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Recent Advances in Diabetic Research," Prof. Joseph Larnt:r, 127 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Uses of Formulas. Especially in 'The Wanderer,'" Prof. Constance B. Hieatt, 208 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Graduate Fellowship Prayer Group Meeting, Bulla House 

•7 
p.m. -Fil.tn, "Running Fence," and "Valley Curtain,'' Sponsored by Snite Museum of Art, An· nenberg Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Discussion, Human Rights: "Chile: The Practice,'' Stapleton Lounge 

•7 
p.m. -Fil.tn, "The Discarded People," and "Country Lovers,'' Center for Social Concerns.. 


Free 
•7 
p.m.-Slide Show, SMC Semester Around the World, Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's 

•7:30 
p.m. -German Club Organizational Meeting, LaFortune Student Center 

•7:30 
p.m. -Fil.tn, "Life of Oharu," Washington Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Teaching Morality: Bishops and Theologians," Rev. Josef Fuchs, S.J. Library Auditorium 


2/23/84

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 

Notre Dame

TRIP TO CH.ICAGO 

Student Union

Sat., March 3, 1984 
Bus leaves Library Circle: I O:OOam Bus leaves Chicago: 5:00pm (Chicago time) $5 Sign-ups at S.U."'Record Store 
Bus will go to the "Windy City's" museum and Water Tower Place and other requested drop-offs 
------------------------------------~ 

Beat the Clock 
Specials Every Half-Hour 

L-~-~---------~---------------------­
Thursday, February 23, 1984-page 12 
S~orts 
Irish defeat lowly Manhattan, avoid late upset attempt, 63-58 
By CHRIS NEEDLES bd(>re they can start dreaming of a I'm happy with it." Ob.<en,erSpecial Writ£'1' two-night stand on Broadway. Notre Dame used 24 points from None of those games, however, senior Tom Sluby and a solid I 5 
NEW YORK -Pnhaps it was fit­will he as t·a.~y as last night's contest points and H rebounds from fresh· ting that Digger Phelps came back to against Manhattan. Or, as c:a.~y as la.~t man Donald Royal to fight off a Madison Square Garden last night night's game should have been. The scrappy Manhattan team that now 
for tht· first time in three years. In his Irish sleepwalkc:d, 63-58, over the: has won just eight games in 26 out· last visit ht·re. you may remember, lowly Jaspers before: 9592 boozed­ings this season. Phdps became Public Enemy No. 1 up fans at the Garden. The victory The: Jaspers' Tim Cain battled a in Tulsa, Okla., because of his raised Notre Dame's record to 16-10 tough collapsing Irish ddi:nsc: all supposed bias toward Syracuse and pretty much clinched a spot in night, managing 20 points and while doing the color com men­next month's NIT -as long as drawing rave reviews from Phelps. tary during the 19H I NIT Champion­tournament officials just look at the "That Cain is a winning player," he ship tele<.·ast. record, and not the scores of in­said in regard to the 6-H junior for­
Now, Phelps hopes to return here dividual games like this one. ward. "He reminds me a lot of Chris again in about a month for the NIT "We're a young team and we Mullin of St. John's the way he Final Four -this time as a coach. Of needed a win like this on the road," hustles and never gives up." <.·ours<.·, his crippled Notn· Dame said Phelps after the: game. "We lost Notre Dame clearly was the supe­team will have to win a few more our composure a little hit at the end rior team, but just couldn't shake games between now and then and missed a few free throws, but Manhattan. The Jaspers shot 55 per­cent for the: game, held their own on the hoards, and kept mistakes to a 
minimum ( 13 turnovers). Unfor­tunately for them, the Irish com­mitted just H turnovers and hit enough free throws (27-36) to stave 

Bengal Bouts hope 
popularity returns 
off the upset. 

The Irish led 30-25 at halftime, By MIKE SULLIVAN The move could prove to be the and stretched their advantage to I I .\ports lid/tor boost the Bouts need. Holding the points, 4H-37. with 6:5H left before 
fights in the ACC was becoming Manhattan began pecking away. The 

( >ne of Notre Dame's oldest ath­more of a burden than a benefit. Al­Jaspers got within three points with letic traditions will be facing a cru­though the facilities are very com­12 seconds left, but were out of cial test in tht· next two weeks as it fortable and convenient for NBC, timeouts and thus could not stop the tries to stop a drop in popularity that who televised the Bouts until last clock. could evc:ntually afftTt its survival. year, the excited, "smoker-type" at­Now, wi.th just two games remain­
That tradition -the: lkngal Bouts mosphere wa.~ lacking. ing (Marquette Saturday and Dayton -is entering its 54th and, pc:rhaps, "The atmosphere in the ACC was on March 3) in the regular season, most important year with a new a hit too conservative," explains Notre Dame's toughest upcoming location and a determined effort to Perino. "It has those plush seats that 
See IRISH, page 9 

assurc: the Bouts' survival for 54 let people lay hack and relax too mort· yt·ars. However, the Notre much. Also. it's so big the crowd 
Senior captain 

Dame Boxing Club, whkh supplies noise gets lost." tht· fighters. faces a tough fight a.~ it By moving the fights to Stepan, tries to deal with dwindling student the Boxing Club hopes to return to support for its attempt to raise: the: excited atmosphere of the Old 
Metzler provides leadership 
ntont·y li>r the Bt·ngal Missions in Fieldhouse. the site of the fights Bangladt·sh. bd(>re they were moved to the ACC. By ED DOMANSKY ganized hockey. when I talked to Lefty (Smith), ht 
"This is a very crucial year for the The temporary stands that had been Sports Writer "We had a big back yard, so my wasn't sure if they would have hock­fights," says Angelo Perino, one of used for hockey games will be father always built a rink," says the ey. I would just have to apply and sec: tht· prt·sidt·nts of the Boxing Club. mowd into the building, supplying Mike Metzler may not wear a "C" 5-1 1, I 75-pound marketing major. what happened." "(It) promises to be one of the most seating for approximately 4,000 per­on his jersey, symbolizing "captain," "I enjoyed skating, so I thought I That made his situation a little t·xdting, action-packed shows ever, sons. The acoustics of the building but the senior right wing from would try hockey." more difficult, but when the: accep­hut it all dt·pends on the students' should provide for a very noisy Niagara Falls, N. Y., is certainly a The Ontario Minor Hockey As· tance letter .arrived, things began to support to keep the program going." event. respected leader of the Notre Dame sol'iation was Metzler's home league fall into place. 
Tht· members of the: Boxing Club Finding a better fighting atmos­hockc:y team both on and offthe ice. until his sophomore year in high "I wa.~ really plea.">ed when I was arc not sitting around waiting to see pht·re was not the only reason for "Mike has excellent leadership _school. The league featured mainly accepted," he says. "It was the best if the: students and South lknd resi­th~ move, however. There were also qualities," says head coach Lefty Canadian competition which added school! applit'd to, so Ifigured -go tknts show up, howt·vt·r. They have financial and scheduling problems, Smith. "He's a hard worker with a a big plus to Metzler's t·arly devdop­for it." ht•t·n searching for advertising and a.'> the rent was increasing and the great attitude. He makes the most of ment as a player. As a freshman walk-on, Metzler trying to increase student awareness number of available dates was himself ·as far as the team is con­"When you're young, you learn saw no varsity action, but was happy of the Bouts. Also, in an attempt to decreasing. It was costing the cerned, and I think they respect him most ofyour skills, and from then on, just to have made the team. A deep l'liminatc some major expenses, Boxing Club thousands ofdollars to a great deal." you just develop thc:m," he says. thigh bruise, suffered shortly after they havt· decided to nwvt· tht· fights use the arena for three nights, some-Metzler first tied on a pair of "Playing Canadians made each Christmas. then kept him off the i<.T out of the ACC and into Stepan Ct·n­skates when he was four years old, player devl'lop a lot fa.~ter, so when until the: season's last week of tcr. See BOUTS, page 10 and a year later, he was playing or-we played teams from the States, it practice. 
showed, because we beat them bad­"Sophomore yt:ar I was optimh­ly." tk," says Metzler. "I played in nearly 
After ten years of competition in half of the: games. and did fairly the OMHA against teams from well." lie contributed four goals in Toronto, St. Catherine's, Hamilton tt·n games. "I wantc:d to play more. and the like, Metzler decided it was hut we had a good team that year. time to look toward the future. and just being a part ofit was fun." 
"I wanted to go to college," he Despite playing in 35 of tht· 56 says. "The travelling was deman;ling games last sea.~on and scoring seven and I needed more: time to think goals and dishing out eight a.~sists, about schoolwork, so I decided to the eventual announcement of 
play for my high school." hockey's drop to cluh status was a While playing for Niagara Falls real disappointment for Mt:tzler. High School, Metzler twice scored "! thought l had a chance for a seven goals in one game. And during scholarship this season," he: says. "I his junior and senior seasons, he workc:d hard to get whc:rc: I was. and won the Section Six Federation with the dropping of the: varsity 
Hockey League scoring champion­program, it was lost." 
ship. Playing this season in the Central "It was a big thing for me," he says, States Collegiate Hockey League, "a real accomplishment." Metzkr was not sure: what to expect. Along with earning three varsity "We had some good playns coming letters in hockey and the: honor of back, and I heard our scheduk wa.~ captain his llnal two !>easons, supposed to be pretty good," he Metzler also garnered four ktters as says. "After the: first weekend with a member of the golf team, and an­Illinois ·State and Northwestern, other four as a member of the though, I had serious doubts about baseball team. club hockey." The Irish outscored 
When it came time for colkge. the: two opponents 37-4 in three Metzkr hoped to play hockey at games. 


Notre Dame:. "I was hoping for a "Knowing we would play better 
The 1984 Bengal Bouts are fast approaching and ticular~y important one as they have been moved to 
scholarship," he says. "But that was teams like St. Thomas, Lake Forest, 
are set for March 4, 7 and 9. This year, the 54th an­Stepan Center from the ACC in an effort to increase 
right when Notre Dame imposed the:
nual fighting of the Bouts will prove to be a par-attendance. Mike Sullivan's story above. 
moratorium on scholarships, so See METZLER, page 9 


