JPW -page3 


Jly KEVIN BINGER 
Copy Editor 
One of the nations's most prominent Protestant theologians is considering leaving Notre Dame to take a position in Duke University's Divinity program, The Obseroer has learned. 
Stanley Hauerwas, a tenured professor, said he would not make a final decision until Duke's tenure committee decided ifit would offer him tenure. 
"I think he (University President Father Theodore Hesburgh) is wrong in many of his policies, both with respect to this department and the University, hut I don't want to pick a fight with Hesburgh," he said, declining to be interviewed about why he is leaving until his decision is final. 
The Dean of Duke's divinity school Dennis Campbell, denied whether he has been in touch with Hauerwas. 
"I certainly would not talk to the press about any faculty matters," strong in -Christian ethics." 
McBrien said he and other depart· ment chairmen in the country fol­low a similar recruiting procedure. They keep in touch with prominent professors in their field so that if a problem develops for a professor at another school they can make him ticized from the left for 
trying to make this a Catholic department, to recover the Catholic tradition here . . . . If the Catholic character of the department is not emphasized, then you're not going to take as seriously as you should the master's level programs." 
Hesburgh made a renewed finan­
cial commitment to McBrien's 
program last week, agreeing to build 
a new theology building and promis­
ing to increase the department's 
budget. 
Seven of the department's 36 professors are non-Catholics. Al­though theology professors .are in­clined not to talk about the department on the recocd, off the record they use phrases like "first­and second-class citizens" and 
Campbell said. "phasing out Protestant theology in 
Theology Department Chairman the department." Father Richard McBrien said, "If I The department's six endowed were in their (Duke's) position I chairs are open only to Catholic would be very interested in him too. professors outside the department Duke is a very significant, Methodist to try to attract what McBrien terms University and he's a Methodist. "seniorlevelschoiars from outside." They have a need in the area he's see THEOLOGIAN, page4 
Only one rector to date not returning next year 
By MIKE ELLIOIT return, an unusually low number for News Staff this time ofyear. Green also said that although the 
Despite rumors to the contrary, number of Rector's Assistant (RA) the number of rectors not com­applications is down from last year, mitted to returning next year is it is not down from the average, but no greater than usual, according to is back to normal after last year's un­Father Gregory Green, assistant usually high number. vice president of Student Affairs. When asked ifa connection exists 
"There is no indication that between returning rectors, fewer people arc pulling out," said Green. RA applicants, and the undisclosed "Right now it's business as usual." alcohol policy for next year, Green 
said, "It's crazy but possible, but it's 
February and March are usually illegitimate to speculate because the the months when rectors commit or data is just not there." decline to return for the upcoming A final list of all rectors returning year. Green said so far only one rec­next yearwill be available within the tor has indicated a decision not to next few months. 
sponsored discussion which also featured, at left, 

Mm)''s campus to "create enthusiasm and to Saint Mary's senior Keevie McCarthy created make people smile." She wanted to show "there this monster atop a "budmobile" on the Saint are a lot ofcreativepeople." 
Vote counting controversy goes on 
ByJOSEPH MURPHY mission this year has been to expand evitablc. StaffReporter the Judicial Council to the level it Tucker said, "We started the elec­once held. However, I regret the tion process in November. The total 
The conflict over who should prominence that this small aspect of man-hours for just the first election count election ballots took another the meeting received. It was a point is about 130. The class elections will turn yesterday. The issue is no lon­on the agenda. I by no means mean take around another 70. Together in ger who should count the ballots, this as a confrontation with Andy total man-hours it's about 200. Forty but who should control the entire Tucker. Andy has done a very good percent of that time is spent count­
election process. job this past year." ing." Ombudsman Andy Tucker, whose Gleason said he doesn't back TheJudicial Council "docs not ap­
organization now counts the ballots, down, and he intends to pursue the preciate the time involved. The responded to Judicial Coordinator changes so that eventually the coun­Judicial Council turns over every Bob Gleason's remarks that the bal­cil has complete control over the year. Unless the incoming judicial lots be counted by the Judicial process. coordinator is active, he would find Council. Tucker said, "I don't anticipate it difficult to run them ad hoc," said 
"If Bob wants to count the votes, any changes in the elections or the Tucker. he gets to administer the election. If election processes." "I have no problems with theJudi­Bob doesn't want to administer the Both men said they were not up­cial Council. We could not run the election, he doesn't get to count the set with the other, and indicated 
see VOTES, page 8 

votes. Counting the ballots is the on­conflicts within politics is in­ly fun part ofadministering the elec­tion," said Tucker, who added he 
Blue ribbon panel criticizes 
had the full support of the Om­budsman steering committee. Gleason said last night he does 
report on Central America 
indeed want the elections from start to finish under the control of the 
By PAUL McGINN changed the minds of many con­Judicial Council. 
News Staff servatives who had formerly"I want entire control. My whole 
doubted reports of right-wing death 

The recently released report of squads. "No one with any sense in the Bipartisan Commission on Washington now doubts there arc Central America, despite its call for crimes going on." improved human rights in the Father ). Bryan Hehir, secretary region, is only one step toward sol­for social development and world ving "the messy business" of the peace at the United States Catholic region, said a member of the blue Conference, and Peter Bell, former ribbon panel. president of the Inter-American 
Costa Rican Carlos Diaz-Foundation. a congressionally Alejandro, economics professor at funded Latin America assistance Columbia University, and lone program, also added their com­Central American on the commis­ments at the Helen Kellogg Institute­sion headed by former Secretary of sponsored discussion. 
State Henry· Kissinger, termed the Bell said he ··fear( ed) a dramatic· document "nice rhetoric for the increase in military assistance" espe­Reagan administration." cially to El Salvador. because of the 
Diaz-Aiejandro was one ofa three­commission's report. man panel which met yesterday af­Among the recommendations of ternoon to discuss the effects of the the blue ribbon panel was a five-year controversial commission report, $8 billion economic <,~.id program for which many critics of the Reagan the area and a $400 million military Administration call a "rubber aid program for El Salvador. Military stamp" of U.S. policy in Central aid for El Salvador, said the report, America. should be dependent upon "certain 
Although not totally satisfied with minimum standards of respect for Reagan's reception of the report, human rights." Diaz-Alejandro said the report seePANEL, page 4 

APPhoto 

Peter Bell, formerpresident ofthe Inter-American Foundation and Father]. Bryan Hehir, secretary for social development and world peace at the United States Catholic Conference. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 

In Brief 
Two arcade games were broken into at Stanford Hall sonwtimt· last week. Although no one is sure exactly when the machines were fort"Cd open, it is known that at least $300 was lost through either game users giving themselves free games, the theft of money from the machines. or possibly a combination of both. The loss w·a!> discovered when Gus llcrbcrt. the Stanford hall game com­missionn and a representative of the company which supplies the games, went to collect the money in the machines "Eit:vator Action" and "Startrek." According ro the games: internal counters, there should have bt-en approximately 5500 collected, hut only 580 was actually there. Stanford Hall was also the victim ofa theft last March when a coin changer was ripped from a wall and stolen. In reference to both incidt·nts, Stanford hall president joe Lynch commented, 
"We don't think it was people from the hall."-The Obseroer 
Two Indiana bishops have been honored by the Indiana General Assembly. one posthumously. Gary's Bishop Andrew <irutka was honored on the occasion of the 50th anniver­sary of his ordination to the priesthood. For the past 26 years, as bishop of Gary, he has served as a spiritual leader to the 200,000 Catholics in Lake, Porter, LaPorte and Starke counties. The legis­lators paid trihute to Grutka's civic leadership in the areas ofinterra­cial rdations. pt·nal reform, elimination ofsuh-standard housing and promoting quality education. In separate action, a omcurrent rt·solution memorializing the late Bishop George Avis Fulcher un­animously was approved by tht· Indiana representatives and ~t·narors. Recalling Fulcher's work in the Church, including his rt·o>gnizt·d umtrihution to the Peace Pastoral, the legislators rt·solved: "on behalfofthe people oflndiana, we extend our heartfelt sympathy to tht· mt·mbers of the Lafayette Roman Catholic Diocese on the death of Bishop Georgt· Avis Fulcher. and to his father George Fukht-r, to his seven brothers and sisters, and to all those who loved him." -The Ohsen•er 
With only one weekend to go before the prt·sidential nomination season hegins in earnest with the Iowa precinct caucuses, a poll puhlishcd yesterday showed the Rev. jesse jackl-.on has caught up with Sen. John Glenn in the fight for second phKe hchind front-runner Walter F. Mondale. Mondale, heavily favorl'll to win the balloting Monday night in Iowa, returned to the start· yesterday for a final push. Sen. Gary Hart of Colorado also hrought his campaign here for a final four-day push designed w hoost his own daim as Mondale's prime challenger. Former South Dakota Sen. George McGovern and former Florida Gov. Reubin As­kew also crisscrossed the state in search ofvotes. -AP 
Six members of the all-black Christ Miracle Valky ~kaling Center and Church in Phoenix, Az., will probably never stand trial on charges of assault and riot because the county has refused to pay for their attorneys. And Arizona's chiefjustice and the attorney general agree that the probable dismissal of charges raises disturhing questions for the criminal justice system. -AP 
Of Interest 
A reception for Nene Humphreywm he at 'i p.m. wday in the parlor of the Haggar College Center at Saint Marv's. Humphrey is a visiting artist and a 1969 graduate of Saint Mar)··~. An environmental sculptor, she is creating a permanent wall installation during her two week visit which will he unveiled at the reception. -The Observer 
Weather 

Cloudy and mild todaywith a zo percent chance ofshowers. lligh in the middle 40s. Mostly cloudy tonight and a little colder. Low in the lower 30s. Mostly cloudy tomorrow, with a high around -!0. Agood chance of rain on Sunday with highs mostly in the -Ws. 
The Observer~ 
The Observer (I 'SI'S W'J 2-·iOOO) is puhli~ht:d .\Iunday throul(h Friday anc.J on honu: foothall S&uurdays. C..'Xl'ept durin)( c..·xam and v;ll'ation pc..·riod~. The Observer is puhlishnl hy tht· stutknh ol the.· l 1nivcrsuy of Notre.· Dame anc.J ~aint Ma.ry·~ <.ollc..·Kc..' ~uh~criptiuns may ht· purdlast·d for Sl~ p<'r )T:tr ( Sl ~ pn 
!'lt.'mt·stt·r) hy writing The ·Observer, 
I' 0 llox (.}. Notrl' Dame. Indiana ~(>'\~6 The Observer i~ a nn-mhc:r ofThe As­st>clated Pres.~. All reprodut·tion rights 
arc.· rt'!\t"rvt·d 
Today·~ issut.• was product.·d hy: 
PrtuluctitJrJ Consu/ta1ll ........ Stc:vl' Foster Ot•sig" Editor...... .... Tom Small Design Assislt11JI.... . . ...... Lisa Vi!'tingardi l.aJ•out Staff.... .... Paul and Tammi<' Typest•//(~S ... ..... Trat..·y Bringardner 
Vil"Sdulli 
Neu•s Editor...... . ......... Mary Ileaky Copy Editor... .......... Mike. Marc and Mary Sports Copv liditor.............. ......Jeff l!lumh Neu·s SJlt•ciall.t~l'tJUt . ........ Boh and Mark l'ieu•poinl Layout ....... Mikt.· 1\h:Cau~ht·y 1-(•atures Cop)• Etlilor . ............. Pt·te Ciolta Featur(•s Layout... .. Mary lkalt.·y ND Dt~~~ Editor... .............Jeff I-I arrington .\MC Day Editor... ........ Maggit· O'Connell 
A.cl /Jesip.,.. .... Boh Slota Photographer ................ <:arol Gales 

Friday, February 17, 1984 -page 2 
Empty dining halls solution to student apathy 
Try to imagine this scenario: It's noon on a Wednes­day and the campus is alive with students hurrying to and from their classes. As they walk along the pathways they smile and say hello to people they recognize. It seems to be a normal afternoon at Notre Dame. But something is different and you can't quite tell what it is at first. Then you realize -nobody is entering or leaving the dining halls. The vast dining rooms of the cafeterias, usually the hotbed of conversation and the place to relax with your Obseroer, lie darkened and silent. 
This is exactly the way John Borkowski would like it to he. 
Borkowski is the director ofthe Notre Dame chapter ofthe World Hunger Coalition. The Coalition organizes the Wednesday Fast program. Those who sign up for the fast agree to skip lunch on Wednesdays in exchange for having the dining hall administrators give the group S 1 which goes towards feeding hungry people both in the South Bend area and in 
easy to not see things. The foreign countries. fast is just one way to try to 
Presently there are I ,0 16 open up our eyes. That's students who arc participat­why we started the study­ing in the fast, but Barkowski prayer group -in brder to said he would like to see make that connection more fewer, if any, students in the clear. It's all abo~t doing dining halls during Wednes­something that you can see." day lunches. Some of the mon_t:y from The Coalition also offers a the fast goes to soup prayer-study group which kitchens in the South Bend meets in the Center for So­area and the rest goes to cial Concerns during the relief agencies in India and Wednesday fast, and also Chile. "Most of our groups 
sponsors films and lectures are overseas," explains which pertain to the hunger Borkowski. "We want to he issue. diverse and effective." 
fasting has been a The public often as­celehration of the ascetic sociates Notre Dame with dimension of religious life the Catholic influence it has 
since the beginnings of or­ganized religion. But today, because of the economic conditions in starving nations and even the hunger present in America right now (no matter what Ed Meese says), it has surpassed the realm of the ~scetic and has become a social issue. 
One can hardly be unaffected hy the photographs in the newspapers and national news magazines of the poor children of third world nations with their bloated bellies and crying eyes. But all too often we just put it out of our minds and inwardly promise to send some money just as soon as we get some. 
But the Coalition is offering students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's the opportunity to do something right now. 
At the risk ofsoundinglike an UNICEF ad, this really is a small sacrifice on our part and can mean so much to somebody else. People who participate in the fast may be hungry, but they know that they can go to dinner hetween 4:30 and 6:00 and eat all they want. The peron 

CANCER. 
NOT KNOWING 
THE 
RISKS IS YOUR 
GREATEST RISK. 
Alot of people think cancer is unbeatable. 
That simply isn't true. In fact, over two million people have had cancer and survived to lead happy, normal lives. 
And not only can cancer be beaten, it can also be prevented. 
There are definite precautions that have been proven to decrease your risk ofgetting certain cancers. 
Ask your kx:al American Cancer Society to send you a free booklet about cancer risks. 
Learn the facts about cancer. And make not know­ing the risks, one less risk. 
t= 
How lW live may save )Wr life. 
Dan McCullough 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Friday 


who benefits from the $1 that the skipped lunch 
provides has no such guarantee. 

Whether it is a result ofthe recent conservative trend on campuses or from the pressure to succeed in the highly competitive job market, most students are not socially active in organizations that help people. And this is a sad turn ofevents. 
Says Borkowski, "It's not a whole lot to give up, hut I don't think that's the major reason people should sign up for the fast. We get so used to having so much that it's 


maintained over the past century. It sees us as supporting the ideals of the Cath­olic church, including relief to those too poor to feed themselves, and expect us to live up to these ideals. But the apathy of the students towards social issues shows we are more concerned with advancing ourselves in the all-impbrtant job market. 
By signing up to participate in the fast, we can prove we do care enough to help. Although it will probably never happen, ifeverybody chose to ahstain from eating lunch on Wednesdays, if the dining halls stood empty during this time, we could make a statement proving that we really do care. We could set ourselves apart from other universities with this small sacrifice. And thousands of people would benefit from the money raised by a campus-wide fast. 
Ivy Award or not, the food isn't all that great to hegin with, and with I00 percent participation we could final­ly live up to our image. 
ITALIAN PIZZA 
ALL PIZZAS HAVE A THIN CRUST AND REAL CHEESE BASE 


we will make your pizz:J to your liking wlth 
any or all of the follow1ng additional .toppings: 
Extra cheese, Italian sausaQe, Pepperoni, Ham. Sweet peppers, Mushrooms. Onions. Green Olives, Black Olives. 
SANDWICHES SERVED ON AN BINCH ROLL WITH SWEET PEPPERS, PEPPEROCINI PEPPERS OR PICKLE SPEAR. 
Polish sausage w/kraut . Italian Sausage w/sauce Italian Beef w/juice. . . . Combination Beef &Sausage Submarine . . .  _,  $1 .99 $1.99 $2.81 $3.67 $2.90  
Ham &Cheese  $2.67 ..  
NO OTHER COUPONS OR DISCOUNTS  PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE  

Ffee Delivery to ND/SMC with $6 order 
·Jnlisly Jrince Jizzerin 

18061-State Road 23 • V2 Block West of Ironwood on 23-' 
272-8030 

.... 
The Observer Friday, February 17, 1984 -page 3 

Friday 
9 a.m. to 8 p.m.-Registration, LaFortune Student Center 9 p.m.-Cocktail Dance, ACC 
Saturday 
9 a.m. to Noon -Registration, LaFortune Student Center 10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.-Academic Workshops, various sites 1 to 2:30p.m.-Jazz Band, Washington Hall 1, 2:15 and 3:30p.m.-"Wake Up The Echoes," Eng. Aud. 1 to 4 p.m.-Open House, Center for Social Concerns 
1:30 to 3:30p.m.-Naval ROTC Reception, ROTC Building 
1:00 p.m.-London Program Reunion, Zahm Hall 2 and 3 p.m.-Tours of the Snite Museum 3 to 4 p.m.-Shenanigans, Washington Hall 5 p.m.-Junior Class Mass, ACC 7 p.m.-President's Dinner, ACC 
10:30 p.m.-Hall Parties, Individual Dorms 
Sunday 
10:30 a.m.-Closing Brunch, ACC 
Ingredients ready for tonight's start of annual Junior Parents' Weekend 
By KEITH E. HARRISON,JR. 
StaffReporter 
A cocktail dance featuring international hors d'oeuvres. 
A dinner for 3,800 people. 
And a brunch with former football running back and 
Notre Dame alumnus, Rocky Bleier. 
These are the main ingredients for the February phenomenon known collectively as Junior Parents Weekend. 
The three-event, which begins today "gives juniors an opportunity to show their parents the academic, religious, and social aspects of Notre Dame," said Stephen Smith, an executive coordinator of the weekend. 
A cocktail dance at the ACC tonight will kick off the weekend. The theme for the event, "A Taste ofTravel," was conceived by William Hickey, director of Food Service. Fourteen hors d'oeuvre booths will be located in the con­course of the ACC, and each booth will feature a certain country and serve that nation's national food. In addition, all the chefs will be dressed in the traditional clothing o: the nation they represent. 
Hickey, whose food service is preparing all the food for the weekend, said, "Food for cocktail parties is usually kind of dull and unexciting. I think that the international idea will add flair to the event." 
There will be two different dance areas at the cocktail party. The Bill Porter Orchestra will provide the big band sound on the basketball floor area, while a disc jockey will add more contemporary music in the Monagram Room. 
Saturday's big event will be the President's Dinner. AI· most 4,000 people are expected to attend the dinner, which will include stuffed breast of chicken and flaming baked Alaska. University President Father Theodore Hes· burgh and Junior Class President Vince Hockett will be featured speakers. 
Another highlight of the weekend will be Sunday's closing brunch. Beginning at 10:30 a.m., the brunch will include a 15-minute audio-visual presentation lifthis year's junior class. Notre Dame alumnus and former Pittsburgh Steeler Rocky Blier will be the special guest speaker. 
"We were looking for a dynamic, upbeat Notre Dame personality to be the guest speaker," said Mike Schmutz, chairman of Junior Parents' Weekend. "We think Rocky will end the weekend on an exciting note." 
There is no reserved seating for the Sunday brunch. 
This year's JPW will differ slightly from previous ones. First, a number of new activities have been added to the agenda for Saturday afternoon. "Traditionally, there has been a bit ofa lull between the college workshops on Satur­day morning, and the Junior Class Mass that evening," said Smith. "We hope that our additional activities will eliminate that lull." 
As part ofthese added events, both the Notre DameJazz Band and the campus singing group Shennanigans will per­form in Washington Hall. Although not officially part of JPW, former Reagan Campaign Manager John Sears will speak at the Memorial Library Auditorium Saturday at 3:j0 p.m. 
Several other changes have been made for Junior Parents' Weekend this year. Due to increased participa­tion, the Sunday Mass has been moved from Sacred Heart Church to the ACC. Also, after the President's Dinner, four chartered buses will take the students and their parents from the ACC to the hall receptions. The buses will also he available after the the receptions to shuttle parents back to the ACC parking lot. 
Junior Parents' Weekend is strictly a student-organized event. The JPW planning committee was advised by james McDonnell, director of Student Activities. "I can honestly 
"The people in charge of .Junior Parents' Weekend are the hardest working committee on campus." 
say that the people in charge ofJunior Parents' Weekend are the hardest-working committee on campus," said McDonnell. This year's weekend "will he the best one ever," he added. 
The Junior Parents' Weekend was founded j4 years ago by former Director of Public Relations]. Arthur Haley. In its early years, JPW had a slightly different format. In the late sixties, for example, parents were invited to sit in with their sons during Saturday morning classes. 
In 1970. the JPW featured student discussions on issues such as coeducation, conscientious objection, and the quality ofeducation at Notre Dame. It also included a con­cert by the rock group Fifth Dimension. 
Schmutz said "most ofthe parents have made their hotel reservations long ago." Those who have not may be in for quite a search. All of South Bend's major hotels are com­pletely booked for this weekend. 

HE'S A BIG-CITY KID IN A SMALL TOWN WORLD. HE'S GOING TO LIVE BY HIS OWN RULES, EVEN IF HE HAS TO BREAK EVERY ONE OF THEIRS. 

PARAmOUNT PICTURES PRESENTS R DANIEL mELNICK PRODUCTION RHERBERT ROSS FILm· FOOTLOOSE· KEVIN BACON ·LORI SINGER DIANNE WIEST AND ll.OON LITHGOW!· EXECUTIVE PRODUCER DANIEL mELNID'i ·WRITTEN BY DEAN PITCHFORD ·PRODUCED BY 
·ft· 

~===~ rnL:.,~· . RP~~.~~9Utfl.fi~!~RE ~ ,~~. j 
' 

STARTS FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17th AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU. 
The Irish Gardens 
Stay on campus and save $$$by letting us take care of your flower needs 
Located off the Nazz in the basement of LaFortune 
Hours: 12:30-5:30 
.Ihe Obset:Ver 

is accepting applications for the positions of 
Managing Editor 
and 

Business Manager 
Submit resume to Bob Vonderheide 3rd Floor LaFortune DEADLINE: 5 p.m. WEDNESDAY 
P----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer 

Alumni Association announces award winners; initiates new award 
Special to Tht> Obst>rver 
Tht· winner~ of three major Notre 
Damt· Alumni Assodation award~ 
and tht· inauguration of a new award 
honoring tht· late Dr. Thomas 
Dooky han· het·n announct·d by till" 
Associ at ion 
Tht· Edward Frnkrkk Sorin Award, the A~socltion'~ highest honor prt·sentnl t·ach .I unt· at the rnmion, will go thi~ yt·ar to Judge Norman Barry of Chicago. Barry is a I 'J21 graduate who spt·nt I~ yt·ars as a Notrt· Dame studt·nt in the demen· tary, high school. t·olkge and law school programs in opnation at that timt·. The aw;1rd honors the tinmder 

and first prt·sident of Notre Dame and is given to an alumnus display­ing a high degree of service to the University. 
Robert Cahill, a long-time as· sodate in Notre Dame's athletic department and former ticket managa, will receive the first Car­dinal O'llara Award, also honoring a formt·r Notre Dame prt-'sident. The award honors servict-' to the llniver­sity hy a formt"r employee who is an alumnus or alumna. 
Tht· James Armstrong Award, named for a formt-'r association director, will he presented at the Alumni Senate meeting in may to John Cacklcy, dirl'ctor emeritus of the alumni group and a veteran member of the Univt-'rsity's public relations, alumni affairs and dt-"vclop­mt·nt division. The award honors a current employt-"e of the llnivt-"rsity. 
The new Dr. Thomas Dooky Award will he given to a man or 

Theologian 
continued from page I 
"Tht· tkpartmt·nt is at once Cath­olic and t•t·unwnkal." said McBrien. "Thost· who arl'n't Catholic should rl'gard thl'msdves as full ml'lnhers of thl' tkpartml'nt with full par­ticipation. 
"I don't want to sn· stories saying there is pt-rsonal fril'l ion ht·twn·n Stanky ( llaunwas) and nlt' and that I can't wait to ~ee him go. That isn't the cast'. I know thl're's tension ht·­tWt'l'n what thl' <kpartml'nt wants to do and what ht· wants to do ... hut he is a productive scholar ;;nd a good tt·acht-r. I don't want to Sl'e him go." 
Panel 
continued from page 1 -
Bdl. while admitting thl' connec­tion hl'lwct·n human rights and t'Conomk and military aid was com­mnulahk. cha~tisnl tht· Administra­tion l(>r not St't'king diplomatic and political solution~ to any problems 
in Ct·ntral Amnica. 
"There is no rt·al link ht·twn·n 

pn·ssurt·s (for countrks to support 
human rights) and a negotiating 
strategy," ht· said. 
I lt-hir questioned thl' intt·nt be· hind tht· n·port, saying that tht· t·om­mission. mud1 as commissions in tlw past, wa~ t·allnl "only when there was an absolute impasse" in nt"g<lliatiom. lll'hir. who is credited with writing lllLil'h of tht· rt'tTnt I'.S. bishops' pastoral kttl'f on war and peact·. added that thl' report is only 
"a rl'alfirmation of what \\'t'"ve had in tht· threl' past yl'ars." 
I khir callnl for the ll.S. govnn­ment to approach Central America likt· a "thret··layt·rt·d cakl'•• -local­ly, rq~ionally. and globally. 
The long-tt·rm ctfect of the com­mission's rt"port, said Diaz-Aiejandro. "dcpt:nds on how it i!> impkmt·ntnl and followed up." 
lk humorously addt·d. "th(· best we can hope li>r is ti>r ( Dt-"mocratic prl'sidential candidate Fritz) Mondale to gl'l dt'Ctl'd." 


woman who graduated during tht-" last I 0 yl'ars and has exhibited ex­traordinary savict-' to humankind. The first r~cipicnt will bl' st-"kcted at the fall met-"ting of the association and will bl' presented at thl' winter meeting on thl' campus. 
Barry. a formt-"r Illinois st-"nator and drcuit judgl' of Chicago from I ')<;4 to I 'J'7H, has hn·n associated with Sl'veral Notre Daml' programs over thl' years. lie playl'd football with thl' kgl'ndary Georgl' Gipp un­der Knute Rocknl' and later coachl'd tht· Chicago Cardinals to a National Football Lt-"agul' title in I ')2<;. ~k coachl'd tht-" lkLaSalle high school team to a city championship thl' 

same year and is a chartt-"r inductet-" in the Chicago Catholic Ll'ague Hall offamt-". 
He has scrvt-"d as president of tht-" 

Notrt-" Dame Club of Chicago, an honor also accorded to his son, Nor­man. and his grandson, Norman Jr., all graduates of tht-' University. A practice courtroom in Notre Daml"s Law School is namt-"d for him. 
Cahill, one-time St-'Crl'tary to foot­hall coach Elmer Layden, servt:d thl' llnivt-"rsity as business manager of athletics before his n:tiremt'nt. lit-' is a former prt-"sident of the Notre Dame Club of St. jost'ph Valley and was the rl'cipient of that organiza­tion's annual award. 
Cackley, a 19~7 graduate, has worked in editing, fund-raising and alumni activities during 22 years of st-"rvice. Prior to joining the Notre Dame staff ht-' was vice consul in the American Consulate in Marseille, France. 


Friday/Saturday 3·7 PM "Happy Hour" Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 Imports .•... $1.00 
~~~ 
WE DELIVER 
EUT:! 
STOP IN· SIT DOWN· 


& Enjoy our large 18" pizza 
For ~~<)<!Y 2 
Only ~ Toppings 
reg. '11" NO OTHER SPECIALS WILL APPLY 
Fri.-Sat. -Sun. 
THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA & PUB 
'~1312U~()·~' 
130 DIXIEWAYN 
277-4519 ROSElAND 277-4519 Saaday: Oa campaa apeclal· Medlam 16" OPEN SUNDAY Pizza delivered for $7.95; any 2 topplage 4·10 
The Observer/Carol Gales
Acting team 
Ozzie Dar1is and Ruby Dee, an acting team, spoke in the Library Auditorium last night as part ofthe Black Cultural Arts Festival which is going on this month. 


~=~orlol'o] 
Traditional' Italian Cuisine Fettucini-Lasagna-Veal Parmiagiana Bucatini Con Broccoli 
Don't forget Parisi's for your dining during Junior Parent's Weekend 
18455 South Bend Ave. (1 mile east of Notre Dame) 
Lunch· Dinner· Carry-outs Complete wine & cocktail list Closed Sunday &Monday 
Reservations Accepted 
277-0578 
"Everything but the Gondola" 



enjoy our vit>w of the nt>w downtown! Artwork To!IS Games Something (or Everyone
Reservations Appreciated B4·9000 
Brass Crystal

121 South Niles South Bend 
Pewter Dolls Nearly one third of our. gifts are especially made for us by outstanding artists and craftsmen from every stale. 

Coml' 'l'l' II' ~I lhl' . . . u •"•"• D•m• 
Paradise of 
Unique Gifts 
Handcrafted ltzms Decorative Aaessories 


Fast Bank Emporium Building 
e 
c


219·232-8488 




The Observer /Carol Gales

Scramble for room picks 
ception to the traditional long .lines. juniorAnn Bowlerpicks a room as others wait behind her. 
TheObserver Friday, February 17, 1984-page 5 
Two assaults occur at ZZ Top concert 
ByTRIPP BALTZ 
StaffReporter 
Two separate incidents involving assault occurred at the ZZ Top con­cert held last Thursday at the Notre Dame ACC. 
Mike Renaud of Stanford Hall was taken to the St. Joseph Medical Cen­ter and treated for a mild concussion and multiple lacerations to the face. He was struck by a chain-wielding youth who was not apprehended,by authorities because of Security offi­cials' difficulties in his description and in gaining access to the arena floor where the incident occurred. 
Two youths allegedly demanded the tickets of a young couple in an­other incident outside the football stadium. Director of Security Glenn Terry said, "The incident was probably entirely false. We have reason to believe the couple was merely attempting to get into the concert and never had tickets in the first place." The two reported that they were held at knifepoint by two assailants who took their tickets. 
The assailants did not, however, take the purse of the young lady nor the wallet of the young man. Both are residents of South Bend. Assis­tant Security Director Rex Rakow said, "We've had incidents of stolen tickets reported before. But never when just the tickets were taken." 
Renaud raised questions about 

The Oar House Cold Beer& 

the role security played on the eve­ning of the concert in a meeting yes­terday with Dean of Students James Roemer. ··security failed to get the guy who did it. Now my insurance will have to pay the hospital bill," he said. 
"The seating arrangement could 
have been better," Renaud con­
tinued. The arrangement on the 
arena for the concert was festival 
seating, meaning there were no 
chairs on the main tloor. "It was so 
packed," said Renaud, "that it was 
difficult for my friends to get me out 
after I was hit." 
Renaud said the youth who struck 
him was pushing toward the front to 
get a better view. The youth shoved 
him, and Renaud said there was 
"continual pushing going on. After a 
while, the shoving stopped and I 
thought I was going to get to see the 
concert. The next thing I know, I 
was lying on the ground." Some 
concert-goers nearby said the as­
sailant ran from the scene after 
Renaud was hit. 
Dean Roemer said, "There was 
not much more security could have 
done about the incident. Mike was 
immediately taken to the hospital by 
a paramedic team made available for 
the concert. The way security 
handled the occurrence was very 
professional . " 
Security has no new informa .tion on the suspect. 
Liquor Carry Out Till3 am 
ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
Live OJ and Dancing 
10-3 AM 
"TWO BARS" 

University Food Services 
Oak Room Cafeteria 
Special Candlelight Dinner Friday, February 17,1984 
4:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. in honor ofJunior Parents 
Prime Rib of Beef, Au Jus 4.95 Broiled Mackerel, with mushrooms 1.95 Baked Sole Florentine 2.00 Lamb Shish Kebob, Flambe 3.00 
Ir--------------------•
Friday Dinner Special: $3.50 I
I I
All you can eat-Fried Perch or Fried 
1 Chicken, with choice of potato 1 
1 or vegetable, and coleslaw, Hot 1 
I Biscuits and Corbread, honey and butter I 
I Reservations Accepted: 7518 
L--------------------~ 

Baked Potato ______ 50 ______ 15
Sour Cream French Fried Potatoes ____ 60 ______ 55
Harvard Beets Buttered Cauliflower _____ 60 _____ 65
Stir Fry Vegetables 
Apple Pie 70 _____ 70
Lemon Cream Pie Brownie Fudge Pudding ____ 55 Ice Cream 

"Discover" 

, And discover a place where you and your friends wiD witness the finest entertainment in this entire area, as weD as fabulous foods to feast on. Discover: 
•ta Pound Gourmet Burgers! Pizza Guaranteed to Satisfy! 24 Varieties ofImport Beers! 
Clip This Ad And Save 


$3.00 OFF ANY LARGE PIZZA 
$1.00 OFF ANY SMALL PIZZA 
$1.00 OFF ANY SANDWICH AND FRENCH FRIES PURCHASE 

THANK GOD ITS FRIDAY GOOD FOR ONE BEER FOR .25~ Second Beer for only .so~ 
ANY FRIDAY THIS MONTH MUST BE 21 YEARS OLD TO USE THIS COUPON INCLUDES ON TAP BEERS ONLY 
One Coupon Per Visit Limit! 5 Minutes East On Edison To Main St. Then 2 Blocks North To Day Rd. 

L-------259-0050------....11 
The Observer Friday, February 17, 1984-page 6 
Gorbachev said to be No. 2 man in Politburo 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -l\likhail S. Gorhac· ht.·v gave crucial endorsement to Konstantin ll. Chernenko and is now the No. 2 man in the Kremlin, a high· ly placed Soviet source says. 
Tht.· S2-year-old agriculture specialiM, tht.· youngest man in the ruling Politburo. was reputed to he.: Yuri Y. Andropov's t.·hoice as succes· sor. 
With Chnncnko sclt:l'led to lt:ad tht.· country a~ general secretary of the Communist Party, (iorhachev's powerful ncw rok was first sug­gestt.·d hy his position next to Cher· nl·nko at ccremonies in honor of thc late Andropov. 
Then it was announced on tclevi· sion Wednesday night that Gorhac­hev had made a prcviously undisclosed statc.:ment at thc Ccntral Committt.·c plcnum Monday that namt.·d Chcrnenko lcader. 
(iorhachev's statement appears in a hrochure of speeches obtained by Thc Associated Press yesterday in advance of publication. The brochure indicated Gorhachev, spt.·aking "on hehalf of the Polit· huro," closed the meeting with an 

ALL LATEST DIRECT SALES COMICS 

also hard to find back Issues AVAILABLE THURSDAY AT 
6:00P.M. 
234-1038 
~JU~\U~JU~ 
STORE 1346 E. MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND. 2l4-103a 
~: ....fllwn.l..7. rn. IN, S.LN 

endorsement of Chernenko. In or· dn to carry out such a role at the plenum, Gorhachc.:v would most certainly have co be in a leading posi­tion in the I 2-man Politburo. 
The Communist Party newspaper Pravda, meanwhile, laid out a con­servative course for the party in a front-page editorial that set the tone for Chernc.:nko's first months in power. Pravda made dear that there would he.: no relaxation of Soviet bloc unity under Chernenko, who traditionally endorsed the.: doctrine.: of his mentor, Brczhnev, that there should he no lihc.:ral experiments in the Soviet bloc. 
A western diplomat speculatc.:d that Gorbachev's c.:ndorsement of Cherm·nko meant there.: was an im­plicit rt·cognition within the Krem­lin lt:adership that his backing was necessary to win Chernenko the post. A highly placed Soviet source told a western dclt:gation in Mos­cow for Andropov's funeral Tuesday that Gorbachev was now, effective­ly, the Kremlin's No. 2 man. 
Chernc.:nko's policies were outlined in dc.:tail yesterday in a two­column editorial running the length of the front page of Pravda. 

The Observer /Carol Gales

A careerwith Uncle Sam? 
-
Marie O'Brien, representative from the En­Hagan,Jennifer Payne and Mike Brogioli, aspart ­vironmental Protection Agency, speaks about ofGovernment Career Day, which took placeyes­EPA career opportunities to sophomores Caro(yn terday on the secondfloor ofLaFortune. 
NEW DONORS RECEIVE 
$11.00 CASH 
After Initial Donation AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 515 Lincolnway West 
Tues and Sat 8:00-4:30 Wed and Fri. 9:00-4:30 234-6010 Closed Mon and Thurs 
Cosimo Hair Design 
18461 St. Rd. 23 277-1875 
Men: Replarly $14.00. Special Price $10• Women: Regularly $20. Spec:ial Price $15 • 
•with coupon for Nolrf! Dame studenf8 only 
Co-Designers Only: Men $7 Women $10 
-----------------------------..--...-.--­


IRISH TO INVADE FORT LAUDERDALE 
SPRING BREAK CAMPS SET UP AT TWO MAJOR HOTELS 
SheratonYankee SheratonYankee Trader 

Beach entertainment galore ... right outside your door. Home of PENRODS, the hottest spot on the beach. 
(Mike and Dean of the Beach Boys-Spring, 83) 
Wave after wave of students descend on Fort Lauderdale . • . but the smartest check In at the two great Sheratons, where the best doesn't cost more.·
(L--~ RECRUITS SIGNING UP DAILY f L--~~\ ~ ~ BY CALLING (toll-free): ~ ~
88 
~~ ---~AP 1·800·325·3535 ~"· ..~AP
~~® ..*~® 

-------------------------~ 
_V__l_·_e_W_..,.P-~0_1_·_n_t_________
Fr-ida.._r._Fe-bru-ary 17, 1984-page 7 

Nuclear deterrence is not defense 
Editor's note: This is the second in a series of been killed in some of them. taneously by ballistic missiles travelling at our mercy. 
articles on the logic ofa nucleararmsfreeze. But, at least, the territories of North thousands of miles per hour. It takes no expertise to see that the failure of America and Western Europe have remained Our side's nuclear arsenal is sometimes deterrence is almost inevitable. Yet our free of major war. Moreover, there have been described as the keystone of our defense leaders numb our critical thinking by con­
George Crowell 
no nuclear wars. The U.S. nuclear deterrent, it against nuclear attack. To call it defense, stantly repeating that deterrence is crucial to is widely believed, has kept us secure. however, is misleading. It is more accurate to our security. A statement by a U.S. official is This claim is, of course speculation. It is a speak of our side's nuclear arsenal as our typical: "Nuclear deterrence is the absolute
Guest columnist 

belief that cannot be proven. Many other fac-deterrent force. But deterrence is not defense. bedrock of national and international 
tors could explain the lack of a Soviet attack. The goal ofdeterrence is to motivate an op-security." The view which prevails in the policy and But we need not argue this point. Certainly ponent not to attack at all. Without defense Those who favor the strategy ofdeterrence practice of the United States, Canada and nuclear weapons have a deterrent effect. we cannot ward off his attack. Limited to take pride in their tough-minded realism allies (if not among the majority ofpeople) is No rational party desires to become the tar-deterrence, we can only hope that his fear of about the Soviet threat. They belittle people that our side must maintain powerful nuclear get of a nuclear attack. Rationality requires our retaliation will restrain him. The op-who call for disarmament as being naive and forces in order to deter an aggressive, that we go to great lengths to avoid any such ponent, who possesses his own nuclar arsenal. unrealistic about that threat. totalitarian Soviet regime, with its dangerous devastating consequence. remains free to launch a devastating attack But the strategy of deterrence actually nuclear ars~nal, from attacking us. It is natural and necessary for people to be which we are helpless to stop. We can do no places a high degree of faith in the Soviet 
This view has been so heavily emphasized concerned about their security, to seek more than retaliate, as a last expression ofter-leadership -faith in their rationality and that for many people it is difficult to imagine defense from attack. But nuclear weapons do ror and frustrated rage. restraint in the face of the extremely menac­anything else. It is often repeated that we owe not provide defense. They are offensive Our lives depend upon the hope that the ing U.S. nuclear arsenal. the peace we have enjoyed since World War II weapons, and there is no defense against opponent will make a rational calculation of When the Soviets showed signs ofpanic un­to the American nuclear deterrent. them. the frightful damage he would suffer, and will der that pressure, as in the tragic shooting 
It is admitted that there have been Nor is there any forseeable possibility that refrain from attacking. But we can never be down ofa Korean airliner, our side was quick numer;Jus wars around the world since World reliable defense can be developed against sure what he will do. We cannot coerce his to call them paranoid. Paranoia is a type of in­War II, and our soldiers -Canadians, nuclear warheads, especially when hundreds, decisions. We cannot control his actions. We sanity. And yet we depend on their rationality Americans, British, French and others -have' or even thousands, can be delivered simuJ: are at his mercy. And in the same way he is at for our very survival. Is this realistic? 
~====~~~~~~=-~~~~----~--------~----------~--------~~--------~ 
Controversial myths at Notre Dame 
In a class last week, my sociology professor answer is obvious -some people do tit these "easy" poetry course. But, if we keep searching for new things asked why male-female relations are so stress­descriptions. Believing this myth about Liberal Arts stu­right here, or at least new friends to share ful here at Notre Dame. One female quickly However, if just one male and female can dents is just as detrimental to our student them with, one more commonly-held Notre gave the answer. "Because the males are so­firmly dispel these "truths," should not these camaraderie as believing that engineers are Dame myth will be laid to rest. cially retarded." Immediately after hearing "truths" be totally erased, especially since sqpares or that accountants are boring. So in our daily lives on campus, we will con­
more people negate them than most of us The idea that South Bend is a total waste­tinue to joke about the sad conditions of the would like to believe? land is another myth. Even though it has only other sex on campus, the type ofpnson one is 
Yes, they should, because by not thinking in two major shopping malls, a few movie because of one's major and the resemblance terms of these stereotypes we will be able to theatres and a handful of bars and nightclubs, of this part of Indiana to a worthless waste­Under the Dome attain better relationships with more of our very few of us give it a chance. land. fellow students. Of course, few people come here for the But to come to a better understanding of Another myth here at Notre Dame is that fantastic nightlife, sparkling beaches, or the truth, we must brt·ak down the walls our this, an obviously offended male quickly 
Ken Cerabona 
those who choose to major in the College of beautiful weather, but there is enough here to myths builds up between us and the subject of retorted, "Because the females are stuck-up 
Arts and Letters are, by nature, not as intel­keep nearly any student at least semi-amused. our fabrication. career women." 
ligent as those who choose to major in some How many ofus have visited the Art Center, Once we have, we will realize that the truth other college. the Discovery Hall Museum, the Potawatomi of each situation really isn't that bad. We willBut which ofthese answers is correct? Neit­Indeed, the work level is not near the Zoo, the Morris Civic Auditorium, the realize that the people or things that appear toher, because both ofthem are based on myth, workload in some of the other colleges, but Studebaker Exhibit, the A vanti Motor Cor­"prove" our myths are really only the excep­
rather than fact. There is tremendous strain 
since we all have been admitted to this Uni­poration or the Marriott Hotel? South Bend is tions to the true state ofaffairs.
between males and females on campus, but versity, we can be sure all of us have attained no Chicago or New York, but there's plenty to And why not come to realize the truth inonly because these myths are taken asa priori sbme elusive level of intelligence, regardless do ifwe give the city a chance. each ofthese situations? We've got nothing totruth. 
of which score on our SAT helped most to We don't give it a chance because the myth lose -nothing but a few deplorable myths. 
These myths, just like countless others we make that possible. that familiarity breeds contempt is taken as fabricate to explain away other campus issues, Although some very gifted students can ex­truth by many who fail to realize that even the must be dismissed as myths so we may come cel in more than one field of study, for every infamous strips on Rush Street, Daytona Ken Cerabona is a sophomore government to a needed understanding of the truths at two Liberal Arts students that can't deal with a Beach or Waikiki Beach can become just as majorfrom Chicago. Ken is a former layout Notre Dame. "tough" physics course, there is also one non­big a wasteland in our minds as South Bend, staff member and design editor for The Ob­
Why are these myths accepted as truth? The -Liberal Arts major who can't deal with an given enough time. server. This is his first Viewpoint column. 
p • 0 • BoxQ 
Student apathy 
Dear Editor, 
We do not live in the world that George Or­
well depicted. ln his story, free will seems 
hopelessly lost whi\e man submits himself to 
~he compulsion of 1'.\1!. Brother. Aut­
horitarianism ultimately ec\\Qses the brief, 
shining moments ofresistence and freedom. 
Orwell's important message leaps over the actual conditions of our year 1984. Whether or not we fall into his terrifying predic ~ions depends on our ability to recognize and practice the fundamental difference between Orwell's story and our own world. 
We can be more than reactors like the characters in 1984. We have the privilege ofa free press even now in our own Observer. We can use the press's power to communicate powerfully. The press can convey anything from a newsworthy "contrived ... show," to reports about politicians' unacknowledged accomplishments. 
If we dislike The Observer's practices, we can change them personally by working on The Obseroer staff. How many times we pass the notices calling for help while we turn to the comics. Ifour lunchtime conversations fall into complaints about the news (and even, unimaginably, about The Observer,) we un­consciously submit ourselves to the Orwel­lian world. 
We complain without acting to resolve our complaints -we become submissive instead of positively act ive. Orwell alerts us to this danger of becoming apathetic automatons directed by our own society. We do have the minds to criticize and dissent, and we are for­tunate enough to live in a society where we can freely change our actions into con­structive responses to the problems which our criticism discover. 
Have we freely chosen to be students at Notre Dame? Maybe there were parental, academic, goal oriented pressures which swayed our decisions to become domers. Yet 
that one decision already made and kept does 
not release us from the responsibility of 
making subsequent decisions and actions. 
Perhaps we are apathetic because of the "unclear role," of Student Government. Pt:r­haps we fed tired of watching clashes be­tween the Administration and Student Government -clashes that usually seem to resolve in the "administration's favor." 
We see interaction between Student Government and Aoministration in terms of competition -terms that necessitate a win­ner and a loser pitting their strengths against one another. Is it a good training session for life in the "real world," or is it possibly an im­pediment preventing the emergence of a more powerful force called cooperation? 
Fifty-five and one tenth percent of the ND 
studepts determined the people for political 
positions in the Student Government. Yet all 
of us here -100 percent of the constituency 
-necessarily share concerns which the Stu­
dent Government addresses. 
Seemingly, people with similar goals and ideals (like the crowd drawn together at a uni­versity) would benefit far more by learning to cooperate -a skill which can compound everyont:'s strengths, a vital resource for the future. 
Do we think that our apathy and our com­plaints will speak for our ability to assume greater charge over our student lives? Even now, as evidenced by our less than rousing voting patterns, we fail to use our full capacity to "recommend." How can we assume the responsibility to "legislate," ourselves, when we find ourselves too busy to trudge all the way to LaFortune or to our dorms to vote? 
We can shrug it all off and say that there is 
no issue particularly important which we can 
address while we are college students. Yet I 
wonder when the isues do become important. 
And I wonder if, when they do become impor­
tant, we will know how to meet them. Or will 
we turn our clocks back to 1984? 
Robbie Freebairn 


Editorial Board Department Managers 
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic 
P. 0. BoxQ,NotreDame,IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe Business Marw[<er ....Christopher Owen 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l:ni­ExecutiveEditor.................................Paul McGinn (.t mtroller ············-· ...............................Alex Szilva' versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide Atlz•ertising Manager. . ............... .Jeanie Poole the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­News Editor....................................Mark \X·un;cheh <lrculation Manager ........ Mark Miotto curately and as objectively as possible. l ~nsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa Saint Mary's Editor..................Anne Monastyrski \·rstems .'11anager .... Ke,·in William~ majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters, and the Inside Column present Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members oftht: community, Viewpoint Editor................................Keith Picher 
Founded November 3, 1966

and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton Photo Editor.......................................... Scott Bower 
The Observer Friday, February 17, 1984-page 8 
Beirut agrees to scrap Israeli pact as part of Saudi peace initiative 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Ldlanon -President Amin (iemay<:l has agrn~d to suap Lebanon's ll.S.-brokered troop withdrawal pact with Israel, Beirut radio rt·ported, in an effort to save his disintegrating army and govern­ment. 
Till' state radio said last night that <it·mayd had agreed to an eight· point Saudi pt·act· initiativt· that in· dudt·s renouncing the May I 7, 
I'>H5. agrtTmt·nt ht·tween Lebanon and Israel. It adtkd that Foreign Min· istn Elk Salem had communicatnl the decision to Saudi oft1c.:ials in Hiyadh. 
The development carne as tht· Syrian-supportnl Drust· and Moslem militias stepped up military and political pressure yesterday to oust Gemayd. who turned to Saudi Arabia to salvage his crumbling posi· tion. 
Druse militiamen pushed tht· Lt:hanes~: army out of the Chouf Mountains and rolled down the coastal hills to link up with Shiite Moskm allies controlling west lkirut. 
At their camps in tht: capital, li.S. 
Marines and Italian troops wert: 
packing their equipment and 
preparing to pull out. 
A st·nior Whitt· llouse otficial said 
tht· Marint·s would begin withdraw· 
ing to l l.S. Navy ships off the 
Lebanese coast in two or thrtT days. 
The oltkial, who spokt· on condition 
he not he named, said tht· redt·ploy­
mt·nt of about I,200 Marint·s should 
he t'ornpktnl within 50 days. 
I k said SOO personnl'l -marines, Army trainers and others -would stay in lkirut to guard tht' l I.S. Em­bassy and perform other functions. 
Earlkr in the day. American oftl­cials in Washington expr~:ss~:d skl·pticisrn that th~: Saudi-mt:diated plan would work. Drus~: opposition kadn WalidJumhlatt said in a inter­vkw ht· would vt·to it. lk called it "too littk. too latt·." 
"There will never bt· a t·om­prornist· with us and Gt·rnayd," Jurnhlatt said in the tdt·phonc intt·r-
Votes 
continuedfrom page 1 
dcl'lions in tht· halls without them," Tuckn said. I k did, however. 4ues· lion tht· ahilit .y of the council to handle the entire pron·ss. 
"Wt·'re going to run the dtTtions 
this }Tar. It would he ht·ttn li>r 
cooler lwads to handle this matter." 
Tucker said. I k suggested tht· 
incoming student body pre,idt·nt 
mt'l't with nt·xt year's judicial coor· 
dinator and ombudsman to rt·solve 
the issue. 
The conllil'l arost· when the Stu· dent Senatt· made a last minutt· change in the election rules allow· ing tht· write·in tit'kl'l The AI· ternatin· to run li>r student hod.y presidt·nt and vin··presidt·nt. TtKk· t'f opposed tlw change: Gk;~son sup· portnl it. 
Tut·kt·r said lu· dot·s not oppose 
ktting the st·natt· changt· the ruks, 
but "not tht· night hdi>rt' the dtT· 
lion." 
Tuckt·r also said. "Whattht· senate 
did was establish a prt·cnknt that 
tht· ruks t:an he changt·d at any time. 
Wt· havt· to enforce the ruh:s. We're 
1101 going to put oursdn·s in a posi­
tion of favoritism. If the senate in· 
tt·nds to make a habit of voting on 
t·nl(>rn·mt·nt of the mks in each 
cast·. we havt· to reevaluate whether 
we want to handle the dt•t:tions. 
The st·nate had approvt·d election 
ruks last st•mt·stt·r including a ruling 
against allowing writt··in votes. 


vkw from Damascus, Syria, which was broadcast by Independent Tdevision News in London. "Gemayd is to he judged for crimes against the Lebanese pt:oplt: .... There is no way to have a dt:al with Gemayd." 
Beirut radio said Gcmaycl received two tdephont: calls late yesterday, one from his foreign min­ister. Salem, in Saudi Arabia, tht: other from Saudi mt:diator Rafik Hariri. telling him Saudi Arabia had rt·cl'ived Lebanon's go-ahead. It said S<tlldi Forl'ign Minister Prince Saud ai-Faisal would tly to Damascus today to obtain Syria's approval. 
The r<Jdio report said Gemayd had inli>rmed the parties to the na­tional reconciliation conference of dt·tails of the Saudi initiative and st·nt a written message about his 
AP Photo 

decision to former President Reagan and Friend 
Sult:iman Franjit'h, a member of the 

President Reagan meets "McGruff," the crime Department put on the "McGruff' outfit to take 
National Salvation Front that in­1 
do8, during Crime Prevention Week ceremonies part in the ceremony that recognizes elected offi­
1
cludes Jumhlatt and former Prime 

at the White House Wednesday. Sargeant Winston ciais, law enforcementofficersand citizfm volun-
Minister Rashid Karami. 

Cavendish of the,St. Tammany's Parish Sheriff teers. 
BeforeWe Put You In Charge Of TheWorld's 
Most Sophisticated Nuclear Equipment, f We Pu~u Through The World's 
Most Sopllsticated Nuclear Training. 
It takes more than 16 
that most of the men months of intensive who operate the training to become a reactors in private fully qualified officer in industry started in the the Nuclear Navy. You Nuclear Navy. ) begin with four months It takes more time of leadership training. and more effort to Then as a Navy officer become an officer in the you get a full year .of Nuclear Navy. But the graduate-level training rewards are greater, too. unavailable anywhere else at any price. The rewards can begin as early as 
I , ~-~­
Navy training is based on more than your junior year in college. Qualify, and 1900 reactor-years of experience. Right the Navy will pay you approximately now the Navy operates over half the $1000/month while you finish school. nuclear reactors in America. And the After four years, with regular Navy's nuclear equipment is the most promotions and salary increases, you can sophisticated in the world. That's why be earning as much as $40,500. Thaes on your Navy training is and must be the top of a benefits package that includes · most sophisticated in the world. medical and dental care, and 30 days' 
As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, vacation earned every year. More. you have decision-making authority responsibility, more money, more future. immediately. You get important manage­So, if you're majoring in math, ment responsibility engineering or the fast. Because in the r ~V~;;O;.;U;;T;-----;3-:; 1 physical sciences, and 
INFORMATION CENTER 
I

Navy, as your knowl­I you want to know more 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton. NJ 070!5 
edge grows, so does I .0 Please send me more information about. I about a future in 
becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy. (0N)
your responsibility. nuclear power, fill in 
I 1
Name__~~---c~-.~~---.~----­
First (Plcnsl' Print l Last 1 Address Apt. fl___ 
Your training and I the coupon. 
experience place you Today's Nuclear 
I City State Zip_ I
among the country's Navy is an opportunity
I Age tCollege/University I
most qualified profes­like no other in the 
I :!:Year in College tGPA 
I

sionals. ~No surprise world. 
&Major/Minor·------------------------­
1 Phone Number · J 
I 
I An•a Co'dE' I Bf'sl 1'ime to Cali This is for general recruitmt>nt information. You do not have lo 
I 

furni11h any of lht> information requt•stt>d. Of course, the more we know, thP mort> we can.h'-"IP to dt>termine the kinds of Navy posi-
J 
L 
tions for which you qualify. 

NavyOfficers Get ResponsibilityFast. 
~---­
Tuckt·r said it was unfair to the other ('andidatt·s who obeyed till' election procedures and attended the mt·t·tings. 

~--~~~~~~~-~----------------------------... 

Showcase 
Friday, February 17, 1984-page 9 


Letters to a lonely God 
Time out for Dedham 
he had come for the weekend also,
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
with reservations at the Morris Inn. I explained: "His home is here."
features columnist 
L
"I thought pets weren't allowed ife seems to be a journey be­remember being a teenager smarter on campus." tween landmarks. A Boston lady, than my family.) There will be time "Darby's not a pet," I said. "He's a travelling to California was asked for gratitude on this weekend filled staffmember." how she was going. "'By way ofDed­with graces. The memory ofthe bon­"He looks like a dog to me," she ham," she replied. (Dedham is a Bos­Iding celebrated with flowers, said. ton suburb. The reply illustrates the speeches, and meals offellowship He looks like a dog to everyone. Boston lady's provincialism.) Even will be kept as an anniversary ofthe He's only a cocker spaniel, and with time out in Dedham, life is a trip heart. We honor our parents so sometimes he needs a bath, though I •MUSIC 
make him sound like much more. He In recognition of Black History Week (Feb. 11-18), The Colfaxon Amtrak with parlor reservations; beautifully on the grand occasions 
we travel with the speed of the when our love becomes official, so is a living creature for which I have Cultural Center will be presenting "Gospel Night" with Charles ' made myselfresponsible. Bob and Black, Pam Mallory, and The Pentecostal Choir tomorrow at 7
Metroliner from the cradle to the to speak, because we have made it grave. Anniversaries are an inven­public. Later, it will be valuable to Ann, takingcare of .him, allow him to p.m. The Layman Chapel Chimes and TimJones will also be perform­
be dependent on them in the sum­ing. The Center is located at 914 Lincolnway West, South Bend.
tion ofhuman beings trying to take think ofwhat we said and did, like mer. It's good for a priest to take care On Sunday, "Ars Musica," a Baroque orchestra performing on in­the events oftheir lives with them as married folks who renew their struments written for by 18th century composers, will present a
luggage. Because ofanniversaries, fidelity by recalling their vows of ofa creature. Some days, my last dime is spent on dog food. Darby is concert at 4 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Tickets
life, instead ofbeing a trip in a marriage. 
are $2 and may be obtained in O'Laughlin. Admission is free to Saint

!>'traight line through the heartland ThisJP weekend is special to my sole responsibility as a parent. I from sea to shining sea, goes round Darby O'Gill II: his summer parents, learn in a small wayfrom Darbywhat Mary's students. A lecture will precede the concert and begins at 3 
and round, always passing Dedham, Ann and Bob, are here celebrating Ann and Bob have gone through in p.m. 
like a car on a toy railroad; always with their daughter, Ann Marie. In raising eight children. Darby's for­•MASS passing"Go" in the Monopoly game, summer, while I am serving as a mal education was at obedience The Masses this Sunday in Sacred Heart Church will have the cglleciing two hundred dollars. In parish priest in Manhattan, Darby school; it only cost nie seventy-five following celebrants: n~ture, season follows season in a lives in NewJersey, sleeping under dollars. Ann and Bob still have kids Father Robert Griffin, at 5:15p.m. (Saturday night vigil) continuous cycle; in our life ex­Ann and Bob's bed. Cheyenne is in college. Darby will never bring Father Thomas Blantz, at 9 a.m. perience, neither April or October their family dog; she is too big to me a carnation to wear as a way of Father Peter Rocca, at 10:30 ever comes twice. In celebratingour sleep under anyone's bed. Darby appreciating me as his father. Still, he Father David Schlaver, at 12: 1 5 personal annual feastdays, we go sleeps under my bed in PW. He represents the best investment I •MOVIES 
back continuously from points we thinks that grownups' beds are could have made in parenting. "Raiders ofa Lost Ark" will be shown tonight and tomorrow night started from, children remembering places for him to sleep under. Ann Our lives are divided by their in the Engineering Auditorium. This 1981 box office hit stars Har­the gate where they got onor offthe and Bob are patient enough to highlights into before and after. We rison Ford as an archeologist who manages to get himselfinto some carousel. Our imaginations are humor him, though he snores loud­keep our blessings fresh by es­spine tingling adventures as he attempts to recover treasures from tricked into seeing the seventh and ly. Darby will be beside himselfwith tablishing rituals through which we tlle past. The fUm is being sponsored by The Film Club and may be seventieth birthdays lying back to joy at seeing his summer parents. recall and re-live the past in the seen at 7, 9:30, and 12 . Admission is S 1. back; the excitement ofbeing a That dog is getting ready to present. This weekend, Bob and The Friday Night Film Series will be presenting "Fitzcarraldo" at honeymooner, or a priest at his first celebrate an anniversary ofhis own. Ann, alongwith the rest oftheJunior 7:30 tonight. Werner Herzig directs this 1982 film in which he Mass, is briefly recaptured Four years ago at this time, the Parents, will weep a little and laugh a reproduces the preposterous dream of his main character who 
NowJP weekend is at hand, the original Darby fmished his time on lot. For three days, they will see Ann dreams ofbulding an opera house in an untamed rain forest in'South 
campus equivalent ofFathers' and earth. The next day, Darby II took Marie's world through her eyes and America. Admission is 52.50. Mothers' Day. Emotions arc trotted his place, as brash asJohn Kennedy their own. Aweekend here is more On Sunday, the Sophomore Literary Festival will be sponsoring out which in some homes arc usual­succeeding the cdler statesman broadening than travelling in Ded­the movie "The Chosen." This film is based on the book written by ly visible only on days when Dad lost Eisenhower. ham, though for Boston ladies, Ded­Chiam Potok who will be the speaker at this year's festival. Showings 
his job. Young people hustling be­Five days later, theJunior Parents ham isone ofthe reference points of will be at 7, 9, and 11, and admission is $1. ­tween summer jobs and the beach came. A visiting mother, seeing him the universe. Darby O'Gill wants to The Monday Night Film Series will be presenting the 1956 film don't have time to be polite or grate­in Keenan, asked: "What is that dog sleepunderhis summerparents' bed "Mon Oncle" at 7. The bumbling hero of this comedy hilariously ful. (I'm not taking cheap shots. I doing here?" She thought, perhaps, in their room at the Marriott. confronts modern home life when he visits hispretentious sister and 
brother-in-law. The 9 p.m. feature will be "La Strada," a 1954 film that depicts the mysteriously moving parable of Beauty and the

Movies 
Beast departed from neorealist preoccupations with socialproblems to depict a quest for self. Admission to both films is $2.50. •NAZZ

Star 80 falls short of a '10' 
Tonight at 7:30 "Par 3" will perform and "Triple Sec" can be heard from 10-12. Tomorrow night, John Tyler will perform from 9-? •DANCE 

perfect excuse." 
Dances this weekend include a "Chance to Dance" tonight and a

by Mike McCormick 
Eric Roberts is brilliant as the 
WSND dance tomorrow night. Both events will be held at Chautauqua

features staff writer psychotic Paul Snider. He was so 
from 9-1. 

believable in fact, that during filming 
•MISCELLANEOUS ~(lYbOl' took thousands of Playmate tests. Snider eventually 
there were complaints from fellow 
The improvisational comedy troupe "Second City" will be r pictures before deciding on forged Mrs. Stratten's signature and cast members about his change in 
performing tonight in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. The

personality for the worse. He was
tile right photos for Dorothy Strat­sent Dorothy offto Los Angeles. Out 
six-member troupe will begin its performance at 8. Tickets are $3 for

reportedly letting his emotionsfrom
ten's August Playmate pictorial. It ofguilt and feelings ofobligation to S5 for adults and arc
students and on sale at the box office in took them three months to assemble him, Dorothy agreed to marry 
his acting carry over to his attitudes 
O'Laughlin as well as the information desk in the Haggar Collegethe portfolio for the August issue. Snider (against the adviceof Hugh Center at Saint Mary's. 
off the set. Roberts will be a According to Marie! Hemingway Hefner and his associates). front runner in the Best Actor who portrayed Stratten in "Star 80," Simultaneously with the develop­
category. the recent release about the model's ment ofStratten's film career The supporting cast is also strong, life and more particularly her death, Snider's highly violent, jealous, and 
headed by Cliff Robertson as Hugh 
it was professsionally done, not a paranoid nature began to peak. He Hefner, the wealthy "father" of the rush job. Remakes of the original became so obsessed with Stratten Playboy empire. Stratten photos arc shown through­that he didn't give her any freedom. 
"Star 80" was written and out the film. These pictures, coupled One film took her to New York City, directed by Bob Fosse ("All That with the very violent nature ofsome where she started a relationship Jazz"). His directing is commend­
parts of this movie, and some very with the director. When she asked able, He maintains a smooth flow 
good individual acting perfor­Sniderfor a divorce, he brutally mur­throughout the movie, even with mances, make "Star 80" a compell­dered her and killed himself. This the flashback structure. His writing, (3) l. 99 Luftballoons, Nena ing drama, but as a full length feature summarizes Stratten's life as a on the other hand, has faults. Fosse 
(2) 2. Send Me An Angel, Real Life motion picture, it is not memorable. Playboy model; however, much of seems to mistake sensationalism for 
(1) 3. Girls Just Want To Have 

The film falls short ofreaching its full the plot ofthe movie revolves drama. He concentrates on the ef­
Fun, Cyndi Lauper

potential. around her death. fect sex and violence will have on his viewers, rather than really (4) 4. In A Big Country, Big Country
"Star 80" stars MarieI Hem­Mariel Hemingway is 
ingway as the beautiful Dorothy convincing as Dorothy Stratten .;> looking at the characters involved. (6) 5. Jump, Van Halen Stratten, who at age 18, went from mainly because ofher strong acting "Star 80" does provide an excellent (5) 6. Major Tom, Peter Schilling waitressing in a Dairy Queen to performance, but partly because insight into "the world ofPlayboy" (-) 7. When The Lights Go Out, 
posing for aPI(lYbOy centerfold there is more ofher to appreciat as well as the influencePlayboy had 
Naked Eyes layout. She was taken away from her than in her last film, "Personal Best." on Dorothy Stratten's life. Fosse also 
(7) 8. Karma Chameleon, Culture Club 

hometown, Vancouver, British (Hemingway had silicone-breast im­raises doubts concerningPlayboy's self-proclaimed "family" status. (9) 9. Talking In Your Sleep,. Romantics
Columbia, by a street-wise, small­plant surgery before the filming of time hustler named Paul Snider this movie.) Defending claims that On the whole "Star 80" is a well­(-)lO. Each Word:YA Beat OfMy 
(played by brk Robt:rts). TI1cy she was told to have the implants made film, but that docs not make it Heart, Mike Deville began dating and Snider proceeded solely to be chosen for this movie memorable. Ifyou only see a few to win her overwith expensive gifts, role, Marie! stated, "I hope people movies this year, I wouldn't neces­and filled her with dreams offame won't think this~~~¥; aboutmy sarily recommend this one. 
.and fortune. His one main obstacle breasts. l did have the implants. But, However, ifyou are a regular at the 
Numbers in bold type indicate the position the single held-on last week's
was DorQthy's mother, who refused I didn't do it tor the role. It was for local theatre, "Star 80" displays 
Top l 0. You can hear Kurt Shinn countdown the Top l 0 Sunday nights
to sign consent forms (due to me, truly. Iwanted it for myself-I some fmc acting, and would be Dorothy's age) for the Playboy just thought, 'Why not?'. And it was a worth the ticket price. at7. 


Sports Briefs 
The two Notre Dame swim teams both 
were in action yesterday. The women's team leads the North Star 
Conference Championships after one day ofcompetition, rolling up 
I57 points to second place Evansville's 127. Meanwhile, the men's 
team is in second place at the Midwestern City Conference Cham­
pionships, having accumulated 120 points. Evansville is in the lead 
with 138 points. Both championships will continue today and 
tomorrow. --The Obsen1er 
Cheerleaders wishing to try out for the 1984-85 squad must attend a meeting on February 27 at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. The captain of next year's team will be Bill Thallemer. Call him at 233­4 331 for more details. -The Observer 
An interhall swimming meet is scheduled for February 28. Hall representatives must turn in a list of entries to Dennis Stark the day before the meet or the interhall office, C2, ACC. For more information on the ten-event meet, call swimming coach Stark at 239-6222. -The Obsen,er 
The ND-SMC Gymnastics Club will have a 
meet against Purdue this tomorrow, Feb. 18, at 1 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
Friday, February 17, 1984-page 10 

Picks Soviets and Czechs 
Vairo predicts medal-round teams 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO, Yugoslavia -When the Olympic hockey tournament en­ters its medal round today, Lou Vairo will look like a pretty good hand­icapper. 
"I said a few months ago, and my opinion never changed, that the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia were the class of the field here," Vairo, the U.S. hockey coach, said. "The Czechs are very good but not as good as the Soviets. The Soviets score much more. · 
"In the next grouping were teams like the United States, Canada, Sweden, Finland and West Germany, who would all be competing to get into the medal round with the Rus­sians and Czechs." 
Vairo was right. The Soviets and Czechs stormed into the medal round with 5-0 records. Canada was 4-1, with crucial victories over the Americans and Finland, and Sweden was 3-1-1. 
Canada takes on the mighty Soviets and the Swedes play Czecho­slovakia in the medal-round opeJIIers. Sunday, the final day of the Olympics, it will be Sweden-Canada 
and  Czechoslovakia-Soviet  Union.  
The  team  with  the  best  overall  
record wins the gold medaL  

In a fifth-place playoff on Friday, 
it's Finland and West Germany, while the United States, assured of its worst finish ever in Olympic hockey competition, faces Poland for seventh place. Vairo gave his team Thursday off"as a refresher." 
For Canada to have any shot at a gold or silver medal, it must beat the Soviets. Canadian Coach Dave King thinks his players will get some in­spiration from speed skater Gaetan Boucher, who has won both of Canada's gold medals here. 
"Hey, that's really something to 
see a Canadian athlete come through like that, especially when you beat the Russians," King said. "We always think Russians are machines yet Boucher beat them all. so it defeats that awe that you think the Russians are all machines and bionic and they don't make mistakes." 
"The Olympics are the top com­petition and we have had good preparation," he added. "It looks like we're in good shape. But we have two games we must win left." 
N BA Standings 
Western Conference Eastern Conference 
Midwest Division Atlantic Division w L Pet. GB 
w L Pet. GBUtah 32 20 .615 

Boston 40 12 .769

Dallas 28 25 .528 4.5 
Philadelphia 32 19 .627 7.5

San Antonio 24 30 .444 9 New York 32 19 .627 7.5
Kansas City 22 30 .423 10 New Jersey 26 27 .491 14.5
Denver 21 32 .396 11.5 
Washington 24 28 .462 16Houston 21 32 .396 11.5 

Central DivisionPacific Division Milwaukee 30 23 .566

Los Angeles 33 17 .660 
Detroit 28 22 .560

Portland 32 21 .604 2.5 
Atlanta 28 26 519SeaUie 27 23 .540 6 Chicago 21 28 429Phoentx 23 29 .442 11 Cleveland 20 31 .392

Golden State 23 31 .426 12 Indiana 14 37 .275
San Diego 17 36 .321 17.5 
'.J 
Last nlght'o Raoulta 
New York 100. Indiana 94 Kansas City 121. Utah 99 
Denver 117, Atlanta 102 Boston 125, Golden State 115 Houston 111. San Diego 1 00 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds 
must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­ters per da . 

Classifieds 
NOTICES  LOST:A SINGLE ROOM KEY.BETWEEN STEPAN CENTER AND ZAHM. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL  WANTED  HELPtl!l Need 2 or 4 Marquette Student tickets. Call Rick at 3260.  SOPHOMORE CLASS SHtRTSitlll $10 FROM DORM REP • GET YOURS NOWtl!t  RIDE NEEDED to Kaplan MCAT prep course beginmng Sat. Feb. 25 9am. PLEASE CALL: Gina 8020 Thanks It  
DAVE.1178  
COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE 277-6045 WILL PICK UP & DELIVER  FOUND: EYEGLASSES: Along Jun1per Rd. ne81 C·21ot. Call287-9766 evenings.  SOPHMORES! Interested in becom1ng an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar· ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT  NEED 2 MARQUETTE G.A'S. CALL MIKE 3238.  Mexican Lunch at the C11r1ter lor Social Concerns Monday. Feb. 20th -11:30­1:30 PM All You Can Eat $3.25  To my fellow path widener. God is dead. Ivan lllich is dead. Andropov is dead. T. S. Eliot was going to give Andropov's eulogy  
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT·  Lost: my pat1ence with Senior Nursing Theory. Is rt too late to change my  Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building (239­6264).  I NEED MARQUETTE TIX. CALL 1773 -.  PREPARE FOR THE RETURN OF THE  in Latin. but he is dead. so he didn't. From. Emil's niece, Buzz  
HERSt Surra up but our prlc" aren't. From just $109.00 -apend 7 !un-filled daya In ounny Florida. Call lor yourwll or orgeniD a amall group and travel FREEl Great lor cluba, tool Call LUV  m8j0r????????????????Tootles Dad· dys. LOST TAN. UNIV.·OF·TEXAS PUL· LOVER WINDBREAKER TIME: 10:30.  DESSPERATELY need 3 MarqUe Tix tor tamily.Call Dave at 1045  PERSONALS  HEN PARTY NO BEER BONGS MADE TO ORDER SMC5485  BUFFALO SABRES groupies get psyched for Chicagol Stanley Cup here we come I Tum in money by SUNDAY to 209 St. Ed's or 111 Cavanaugh and get  
TOURS (800) 388-:zooe, aak lor An­nette.  SUN. FEB. 12... BADIN T.V. LOUNGE ACTUALLY. I BELIEVE THIS JACKET WAS STOLEN. PLEASE PROVE ME  FOR SALE  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT Ttl 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  TWINS FEVER. . catch rt?  ready to party I Don't forget. PS It's BYOB on thebuslll  
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME AT REASONABLE RATES. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. Full time & Summer toba lor studenta apeclallzlng In Banking & Marlcatlng. Commlaalon only Miaa repraaentsttve calling on banka & presenting our computer Mrvlca. MMG Corp. Florian L Balaal-800-582~9.  WRONG AND RETURN MY JACKET A.S.AP IT HAS MY NAME IN IT.... J.J.LIU PH.8330 LOST Tl55 II IN CUSHING. PLEASE CALL BILL 1224. FOUND CALCULATOR 1n 356 Fitzpatrick Wed Feb. 8. Can now identify and clrum at lost and found.  ~)........................................................._....... Want to know what's really go1ng on In the Catholic Church? Read NAnONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER, the only newspaper ot the U.S. Church. For sub­scription information and a free sample copy, call Paul at 277-4851. FOR SALE: PIONEER TURNTABLE AND A DELCO CAR RADIO BEST OF· FER CALL 8046  FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A BELLYGRAM TO YOUR SHEIKI PH. 272-1858 "Students with Divorced or Separated Parents Discussion and Support Group" Please join us Sunday evenings in Am 110 B-P and share your experiences and love. Time 9:30-10:30. More Info. call 3194.  HEY TAYLOR. HAPPY 22nd. It HOPE YOUR DAY IS FILLED WITH FRIBIDS. FUN, AND FROLIC!! WE LOVE YOUI( MARISSA AND KAY .. A Mary's Di·Hard is not worth its weight in gold.  FRANCIS Good Luck in your first home meet as an ND Gymnast Have Fun ~ary Yea Mike and Doug, You thought you were going to get away with moleotlng a poor Innocent Catholic girt on the "leland" didn't you? But no boys, I won't let you lor­get, Doug, I want dinner and drlnko. Al­tar all, I em poor but my clotheo are  
WORDPROCESSING · Fast accurate wort< Rev1s1ons & spelling correct1ons. Ph. 272·8827  LOSTLOSTLOSTLOSTLOST·-­CAMOFLAGE HAT­LOSTLOSTLOSTLOSTLOSTLOST Have you seen a rather shapeless camollage hat hang1ng around. suspi­ 4SALE:Complete component sys· tem.Sharp casseue deck. Must see.175$ or Best offer. 277·4734.  ATTENTIONIIAND HERE WE GO AGAIN-DO YOU HAVE A PARTY, SYR OR FORMAL THAT YOU NEED THE MUSIC SUPPLIED FOR??? THEN  HYGENEt LOVE.GSB! BUT WE'VE SnLL GOT A SHOT AT THEN.I.T.I  rich. And Mike, where are thoM dozen red balloons, babe. With love, Your favorite Labalt's ouppller  
HEY HEY HEY ... SO YOU'RE TWENTY  CIOusly out of place? It seems to have  CALL WSND-FOR ONE LOW PRICE  
TWO YEARS OLD YESTERDAY WELL  wanted to f1nd Itself and lelt its owner. If  YOU TOO CAN HAVE A PROFE~  Mining question ofthe week:  NEED RIDE TO CINCINNAn THIS  
BFD I'VE BEEN 22 FOR YEARS NOW AND ITS NOT ALL THAT IT IS  you have spotted this rebel, contact Carole at 7875, lor she will be extremely  TICKETS  SIONAL OJ, ENGINEER, AND ALL THE MUSIC YOU CAN HANOLEIII CALL  How many questions will Phelps dodge?  WEEKEND? CALL EMILE SOON X3770  
CRACKED UP TO BE. DURING QUAR·  grateful (ThiS hat has a great amount of  REGINALD DANIEL AT 239-7425 OR  Notre Dame-DEAD! (But we've still got  
TEA BEEN NtTE. I'LL PRAY TO THE  senti menta value...besides--1ts the ki~  2113-1153. THE DATES ARE FILLING  a chance at the NIT!)  Ht ANNEII WAY TO GO ON THE JOB.  
PORCELAIN. GOD FOR VA. SORRY I'M  With pull·down ear flaps. and it can't be  I'll pay you TOP $$ NOW lor agreement  UP QUICK SO CALL TODAYIIIIII  TEXAS BETTER WATCH OUTit  
LATE. ITS ALL TIM'S FAULT HE'S  tound anymore). You will have done your  on up to 5 commencement t1x. Earn $$  WSND PARTY REMOTES-THE BEST  Gabriel's teaching intelligence Insulting.  LOV'YA EMILE  
SUCH A HOSEA.  Christian duty and made this girt very  and help preserve my place in family will.  EQUIPMENT, THE BEST PRODUC­ 
jubilant. That's all.  Call Dan in eves at 287-6273  TION AT THE BEST PRICE Ill  THE HILTON, HILTON PENTHOUSE,  8 O'CLOCK: WAIT FOR BREAKFAST?  
WOULD THE GUY WHO PUT THE AD IN  AND HILTON ANNEX wish their junior  
THE CLASSIFIEDS ABOUT FINDING  LOST Silver Class Ring w1th Red Stone  Need 2 stu. tix lor the Marqueue game.  OMAHA. NE (CREIGTON U.)  parents the best visrt to campus yet.  BUFFALO. NY CORNELL U. (ITHACA  
MY Bl'lA AFTER I LEFT IT AT HIS  Call Beaver 8449  CaJI1388  ANYONE?? Ride or riders needed to  Thanks for coming.  NY) WELLS COLL. (AURORA.NY)  
HOUSE LAST FRIDAY PLEASE CALL  Omaha ffor the weekend of Feb. 24 -26.  ····················································'····  Riders needed. Leaving 2/23 3pm.  
ME. I DON'T KNOW YOUR NAME AND t WANT MY BRA BACK IT WAS VERY  LOST red paperback · JUSTICE: AI· ternat1ve blahblah ... by Sterba. ed.... call  HAVE CASH · NEED MARQUETTE TICKETS CALL MATT x1228  Will share usual. Call Jeanne at 3484.  Congrata Marte Boan...ll So you've final· ly made rt to the big 211 AAH .... Legality.  returning 2/26. Call Jim at 1747  
EXPENSIVE. THEY ARE PRICED BY THE INCH  Jesse at 234-7033  NEED MARQUETTE TIX Mike or Keith  Lucy Putnam will be 19 tomorrow • call her at SMC 5419 with oympsthy be­ Enjoy those pseudo pints here in Hoosier­land and have a Happy Firkin Birthday.  THE PROGRESSIVE MUZAK KLUB DANCES ARE CANCELLED  
FOUND Silver Cross pen behind  1180  cause she's still not legall  (Not a bad birthday, or even just a g{,pct  
O'Shaughnessy before Christmas break.  birthday....but a really great birthday.)  Don't kid yourselves DILLON BOYS, we'd  
HEY TIM, t HEARD WHAT YOUR  Call Karen 3887 to Identify 1nllials.  MARQUETTE nx? 1 need two student  Lodykona, Hoppo Bothdoyl toomooro  L&K A Friend of the Guinnless  never want anything more than the Blue  
GIRLFRIEND. WENDY. SAID ON YOUR  tickets to the MarqueUe game. Please call  from yo !ronda down owndorll  Fold-up chair! Dream on...  
LAST DATE. ·nMII WHERE'S THE  LOST blue and grey NIKE running jacket  1388  TRANSACTION: Case thrown out. Moot.  
BEEF???" SNICKER SNICKER THE  in Saga(LeMans side) or Haggar 2/14.  NEED RIDE TO I.U.. LEAVING FRIDAY.  OFFENSE: Underage drinking REASON  Ludyment. Happy B-Dayl M.C.  
TRUTH HURTS DOESN'T IT?  Need desperately! Please call4231.  NEED 4 MARQUETTE TtX STUDENT  WtLLPAYUSUAL.CALL TONYx1054..  FOR NULLIFICATION: Both parties haVe  
OR GA CALL JOHN 6718  surpassed legal age lor drinking in state of  Two thoughtful"smicks" want to wish the  
ATTENTION ALL LIBERAL ARTS MAJORS WOULD YOU PLEASE FIND A CLUE.  LOST: GOLD WRISTWATCH IN SOUTH DINING HALL LAST WEEK. IF FOUND, CALL CHRIS AT 6153.  NEED AT LEAST 6 GAS FOR MAR· QUETTE. CALL CATHY 6773.  BOOKSTORE FEVER. . . Catch it! tdog-nam a si zerimaR craM  Indiana. SURPRISED?: No. Bars have considered them of age lor at least three years. FILES TO BE. CLEARED: The Bone and Smurph. STATE ISSUANCE: A  scrub ol213 Holy Cross a Happy birthday on Sunday. Just wait you can get spanked too. Luv ya-Kegs & Saturday n1ght are not tor me too II  
LOST: Notre Dame Credit Umon key ring  SAVE A LIFE Ill My father will KILL me if I  PROVO PROVO PROVO  Happy Birthday.  
I hope the Trustees who approved the 21  with 7 keys, v~einrty of LaFortune/ Ad  don't come up wrth Marqueue tickets lor  To the cutest of the cute and the sweetest  
drinking age all have heart attacks  bUilding. H found. catl234-0302.  him and his visrting fnends. He's VERY  MAMI AND PAPI: Welcome to Notre  Where's the beard? Hey, where's the  of the sweet. Happy 19th Blrthdayl  
popular. but also very weanhy. so money  Dame! Thanks lor Chicago and every­ beard? I don't think there's any whiskers  Cheers to the 3 remaining roommates!  
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Trainingl Challenge! Ad· venturel SCHOLARSHIPS! ARMY ROTCI See LTC Bob Sk1nner or CPT  FOR RENT  is no problem. Call Jamie at 8704. Thanx. Sis at MU. Need tix to see ND win again. Call Kathy 1284.  thing else. I'm so glad y'atl came up. Sorry there's no snow lor you, Mami, butthe sun shines through. All my love. Carola  back there. 2 O'CLOCK AND ALL IS WELL  love ya! Casey & Ann Nora TRIPLE -SEC Here's to another awesome Nazz show (on the Southern  
Anne AH!rTlan in the ROTC Buolding (239· 8284)  Need one FEMALE ROOMMATE. Rent  I NEED 5 TICKETS FOR THE MAR­QUETTE GAME. CALL MATT, 1208  ORIOLES FEVER. ..catch rt!l!  JEFF SLEETH · Last fall's lost earring wasn't even a favorite or anything. The rose more than made up for H. Many  Cross) We love you I SMC UNLIMITED Howard Hall: 3-North Happy Belated  
$97.50 per month Notre Dame Apts. Call  thanks· you made my day. By the way, if  Valt:antine's Day! love. Che1 yl  
Cathy at 283·6786  II you missed the Beaux Arts Ball, see  you haven't figured H out, the above is just  
LOST/FOUND  FURNISHED HOUSE FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3604/288-0955.  $$S Need 3 MARQUETTE tlckatal Call Laura x8130 $$S  TheKINEnCS at Nickles this Saturday. 11 pm.  an excuse so I can send you a personal. XXOO to you, too. · Kris +~b;;··;;;Fi··c,aoowENcH ..  TO THE SMC FENCER WHO HAS IT ALL: HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNIEI LOVE YOUR TEAMMATES!  
LOST IN ALUMNI KODAK CAMERA  ONE ROOM EFFICIENCY UTILITIES  Good luck tomorrow in your rematch with  LAW 4 (WaistTheorem)An ND girl's waist  One long cold walk home in the snow!  
CALL SMC4302  PAID 277·3604/288-0955 ENAAD  Detroit. II you beat them once. you can do  measurement equals 2Pir. (Pi  C.AAC  
rt again I Let's get that conference trtlel  pieces of pie consumed per meal and r  
FOUND IN THE STUDENT LOT BY  Houses tor '84-'85-Furnished. 1 mi. from  $$$$ NEED TWO TtX FOR THE lvtAR­ the distance from her dorm to the huddle.  Men ol ND: Colleen Murphy has reached  
STADIUM. EYEGLASIIES IN BLUE  campus 4·6 bdrm. 2 baths CALL 277·  QUETTE GAME BIG BUCKS CALL  -Mary's Di-Hards  the age oi1S. call her and wish her a Hap·  
CASE CALL 1796  3461  SHERYL 284-4389 $$$$$  5 o'clock and all is well  py B1rthdayl 4345  
I  

The Observer Friday, February 17, 1984 -page 11 
Big day for U.S. 
Johnson, Hamilton both win golds 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO, Yugoslavia -Bill Johnson and Scott Hamilton carried the flag for the United Stat~ yester­day, winning double gold at the Win­ter Olympics. Johnson brashly took the downhill, while Hamilton apologized for not being better in the finals ofmen's figure skating. 
Johnson and Hamilton salved the spirits of the U.S. Olympic team, whose medals output had been sparse, with only one gold and a total of three medals before their vic­tories. They put the U.S. in sole pos­session offifth place in the standings, with five medals. The Soviet Union leads with 20, but both nations have three golds. 
Both were historic triumphs. Johnson's was the first ever by an American man in Olympic alpine skiing, and Hamilton's broke a 24­year drought ofgold in an event that once belonged almost solely to the United States. 
Hamilton, dressed in red, white and blue, waved a huge American flag on his victory skate around the Zetra rink. He was the first American· to win the men's figures since David Jenkins in Squaw Valley in 1960, and he won despite finishing second to Brian Orser of Canada in the 
freestyle program. 
"I feel like I just fell off the edge of the world," Hamilton, of Denver, said. "I did it. I waited a long time for this. I can't even describe my feelings." 
Johnson, a flip 23-year-old from southern California, summed up his feelings, and perhaps those of his teammates, too, after winning downhill gold. 
"This is both America's medal and mine," he said. "Now America has 
it." 

It was not a perfect day for the U.S. team. There was a surprising second place in the short program of women's figure skating for Rosalynn Sumners, and speed skaters again were shutout of medals. In the women's downhill, the best U.S. fmish was 16th, by Holly Flanders of Deerfield, N.H. 

VISA® and MaiterCard® Credit Carda Now Available to Students through TIITlESAVER"''i BankActlon Program! 
No Minimum Income or Job Requirements. Savings account and fees required. Man this coupon for complete Information Send to : Tlmesaver Heodquarters Building I 
Student Dept I 12276 Wilkins Avenue I Rockville • MD 20852 
Name 
Address 
~ ~c~~~--------------~~~m~e~------------~AP~----------­
0 Phone( 
School Attending 
~otus: Fr 0 Soph 0 Jr 0 Sr 0 Grad 0 
There's Never Been a Better Time to Get VISA® and MasterCard® Credit Cardal Apply Todayl 
~ 

~Questron 
CORPORATION 
America's newest and fastest-growing nation­wide corporation invites you to earn next year's tui­tion before June. 
If you are energetic, outgoing, ambitious, and you enjoy meeting new people, we may just have the opportunity you've always wanted. 
Work part-time or full-time. 
Set your own hours. 

We need Local Representatives and Area Coordinators. 
For continuing students, this expands into a highly-lucrative summer position, which flexes back in the fall to fit your academic schedule. 
Many permanent positions are available nation­wide, as well. 
This is a rare and unique ground-floor opportuni­ty which probably will not repeat, once the necessary personnel have been acquired. 
To apply, send a self-addressed, stamped, business-size envelope. Application form and in­formation will reach you by return mail. 
Questron Corporation Suite 204 2012 Grove Avenue Richmond, VA 23220 
But Johnson's searing run down 
an icy mountain provided the spark, 
and the stars and stripes exploded 
with Hamilton's performance at 
night. 
On the technical side, Hamilton 
got three 5.6's out of a perfect 6.0, 
rwo 5.7's, three 5.8's and one 5.9 
from the nine judges. For artistic im­
presssion, he received four 5.8's and 
five 5.9's. 
Orser moved from fifth place to 
take the silver, while Jozef Sabovcik 
ofCzechoslovakia won the bronze. 
Young skiier wins downhill 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO, Yugoslavia -Switzer­land's Mic.:hela Figini rocketed down Mount Jahorina and into Olympic history yesterday, winning the women's downhill to become the youngest gold medalist ever in Alpine skiing. 
The 17-year-old's .05-second ad­vantage over teammate Maria Wal­liser also set an Olympic record for closest victory margin in a downhill. 
"The track was very good today," Figini said. "There was sun. I skied well on virtually the entire track. I may have made a few mistakes, but everyone made them." 
Figini, who won her first World Cup event only rwo weeks before the Olympics, covered the course in 1 minute, 1'3.36 seconds. 
Walliser, the World Cup downhill leader, slipped coming out of the starting gate, but recovered instant­ly and hit the finish line 1,965 meters away in 1: I 3.41. 
An elated Olga Charvatova, who started I6th in the field of32 racers, finished third in 1:13.53 to give Czechoslovakia its first-ever Alpine medal in Olympic competition. Her run also prevented a Swiss medal sweep by knockingAriane Ehrat into fourth place by .42 seconds. 
The course was well suited for the Swiss skiers, who excel at gliding ­keeping their skis flat on the snow. But it didn't please the top American finisher, Holly Flanders of Deerfield, 
N.H. She was 16th in 1:15.11. 
''I'm a downhiller, not a giant slalom skier," Flanders said. "I was out almost a second in the giant slalom turns in the middle sections. The gates were set like a giant slalom, not a downhill." 
Although snow was falling, visibility was generally good for the downhill, which twice had been postponed because of bad weather. The most recent cancellation oc­curred Wednesday after three ofthe top-seeded skiers had finished and another lost a ski in a bump. 
The 20-year-old Walliser, who won last year's pre-Olympic race on this mountain, was disappointed at failing to repeat. For a time, she stood silently at one side ofthe finish area while a beaming Figini ac­cepted congratulations on the other. 
But the two Swiss youngsters finally skied to each other, embraced and kissed, although Wal­liser's face showed little emotion. 
"Naturally, I came here to win," Walliser said. "I did not, but still it's a great day for the-Swiss." 
Charvatova and Walliser each had the fastest time -22.20 seconds ­at the first intermediate point. Figini's 22.34 was only seventh best. And Charvatova's 48.86 at the second time stop was .I9 better than Figini. 
But Figini made up valuable hundredths through the bumps and jumps near the bottom of the 28­gate course, which has a vertical drop of 1,805 feet from the start house to the finish. 

The Observer Friday, February 17, 1984-page 12 
1982-83 Athlete ofYear 
Casey nears end of final season 
By KATHY MURPHY 
Saint Mary·~ Sports Editor 
The 19H2-83 Moose Krause Award, given annually by The Ob­server to the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Female Athlete of the Year. will be presented to Saint Mary's senior swimmer Gail Casey tonight at halftime: of the Saint Mary's­Aquinas College basketball game. 
Casey, a Communications and English major from Holmdel, N.J., has been a member of the varsity swim team for the past four years. She, however, began to swim at age four. 

Cougars· 
continued/rom page 16 
BYll coach Ladell Andersen says. 
"He's as good as any player I've 
coached (in I 0 years) in college 
hall." 
The job of guarding Durrant 
tomorrow will fall heavily into the 
hands of Jim Dolan, but Donald 
Royal and Cec il Rucker will also get 
to share some ofthe fun task. "Jimmy 
wants him," says Phelps. 
It shouldn't be suggested that 
Brigham Young is a one-man show, 
though. Senior Brett Applegate does 
his share for the Cougars, especially 
on the hoards. The 6-8, 220-pounder 
averages almost 12 rebounds a 
game. 
Applegate is also the BYlJ leader 
in steals with 33 in addition to being 
the second-leading scorer on the 
team, contributing 16 points a game 
while playing close to 36 minutes 
each outing. 
Freshman Mike Smith mans the 

last spot up front for BYlJ. The 6-8, 
205-pounder gets about 31 minutes 

a game, during which time he 
averages 6.5 rebounds and 7.7 
points. 
"One of our concerns was 'How 
good are their guards?"' says the 
Irish coach. "But then (Chris) Nikic­
hevich shot well the other night ­
7-of-12 against Hawaii in a double 
overtime game." 
A 6-2 sophomore, Nikichevich 
usually chips in 7.0 points per game 

and, although he has only a .415 per­
centage from the field, shoots an 
awesome 90 percent from the free 
throw line. He is the best foul 
shooter on a team that shoots an im­
stripe. 

The other Cougar guard is 6-2 junior Scott Sinek. Sinek, interesting­ly enough, is from Servite High School in Fullerton, Calif., the same high school where Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein starred in both foot­hall and basketball. 
For No~re Dame, tomorrow's game will, for the the first time in a long time, not be one that it "has" to win. NCAA Tournament hopes are all but gone now and the team is hoping to salvage something out of this injury-plagued season by getting a bid to the NIT. 
It should be a loose bunch ofguys that take the floor tomorrow in the 22,700 seat Marriott Center before a largely-Mormon crowd. The Irish players, those few who arc still able to play, no longer need to worry about winning every remaining game and, perhaps, the team will be better because of it. 
It will also he a somewhat­different Notre Dame team out on the court tomorrow, as the Irish, for the umpteenth time this season, are forced to use a new starting lineup. 
"It's like I've had about four dif­ferent teams this year," cracks Phelps on all the injuries that have hit his squad throughout the season. "This is like a December team all over again." 
Hopefully, though. Notre Dame doesn't play as poorly as it did in December when it meets the 15-7 Cougars. If the Irish dp, it could be one long afternoon. 

"We lived on the ocean while I was growing up," says Casey. "I figured that I might as well learn to !>Wim." I 
Casey has certainly learned how : to do that well. At the present time, ' she holds or shares I 2 varsity swim j records. Last season, Casey qualified ; for the NAIA Nationals, where she : took seventh in the I00-yard in-I dividual medley. In the process, she 1 was named to the NAIA All-i American team, besides being I honored as an academic all-1 American. 
This year's season has been tough-• er for Casey, though. Last May she: had knee surgery and spent most of1 the summer in therapy sessions. 
"I expected to come back and pick up where I had left off last season," says Casey of her pre-· season expectations. "I wanted to swim as well as last year right from the start and that was tough." 
Once again this season, Casey has qualified for Nationals, which will be held March 1-3 in Arkansas. 
''I'm extremely psyched for Na­tionals this year," Casey says. "I'm in better shape and working harder. I'm shooting to get into the finals in . at least one event." 

YOU 

Looking to the future. And helping to shap Be a part of proJects that go far beyond e defmed technology. Live m a world where disciplines are static, few problems are sim and few dreams impossible . a world w you can make a difference. 
TRW 

TRW offers a w1de range of 
challenging opportunities m the fields listed; proJects that range 
from theoretical studies to small. medium. and large harmware contracts for space, digital communications, softw~re 
developmen~ systems eng1neermg and microelectronics. 
TRW offers full support for your continuing education plus a work 
environment that is ex€eptiOnally attractive to self-motiv$ted people. 
TRW will be on-campus 
February 23 24 See your placement office for sign up information and plan to start shaping your tomorrow. 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
The 0 bserver  Friday, February 1 7, 1984 ­ page 13  
Seven Irish fencers  
go to Junior Olympics  
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL  only six fencers will make the trip to  
Sports Writer  Portland.  Edwards  (27-1  on  the  
season), "a virtual shoe-in to go to  
While the Notre Dame men's and  Leningrad,"  was  injured  during  
women's fencing teams will be out  practice on Wednesday. DeCicco is  
of action over the weekend, seven  awaiting word from his trainers on  
Irish fencers will be facing some of  Edward's condition, but it appears  
the nations's best in Portland, Ore.,  doubtful that he will participate.  
at the United StatesJunior Olympics.  "He (Edwards) was the highest­ 
Four Irish sabre men, two foilers,  ranked junior olympian that we had,  
and an epeeist will be vying for posi­ but  Don  Johnson  .automatically  
tions on the U.S.  team which will  moves up a notch (to fourth)," says  
fence at the Junior World Olympics  DeCicco. "Mike VanderVelden and  
in Leningrad, Russia, over Easter.  Charles  Higgs-Coulthard  might  
The tournament boasts the best  surprise some people."  
fencers who were under 20 years of  Along with a 25-5 Johnson and a  
agebeforejan.1, 1984.Amongthese  27-6 VanderVelden, the Irish will be  
are Notre Dame sophomore sabre  sending the freshman foiler Higgs­ 
men John Edwards (ranked second  Coulthard, who leads the team in  
in  junior competition)  and  Don  wins at 39-3; sophomore sabre man  
Seven Notre Dame fencers travel to Portland, Ore.,  petition. For a preview of the upcoming action, see  Johnson (ranked fifth), along with  Tony  Consoli,  who  is  18-2;  and  
this weekend to compete in the U.S. junior Olympics.  Mike Chmiel'spreview at right.  sophomore foiler Mike VanderVel­ freshman  sabre  man  Kevin  


As usual, the Irish fencers figure to do well in the com-

den, who is also ranked fifth. Stoutermine at 18-6. Freshman John According to Irish head coach Haugh, 20-7, will be the sole Irish Mike DeCicco, however, it looks as if epeeist, as he returns to his hometown of Portland to compete
********************************** 

for a spot on the 1984 U.S. epee

Men's Hair Styling at Its finest 
squad.

'The Knights ofthe Castle' 
According to DeCicco, the seven foilers qualified for this meet

We want yoa to lookyoar beat 
through their performances in
with a distinctive caatoaa 

regional Olympic qualifying tourna­de•lgnel'S hair cat&om the tntpert 
ments. Three of the top four in each atyliata at the Knights. weapon at Portland will be given an invitation to go to Leningrad. The fourth man will serve as an alternate.
Haln:at. Sha•poo 
"Right now, the three people with
Blow Dry. Conditio. 
the best chance are Charles Higgs­
Regular $15.M 

Coulthard and Mike VanderVelden Now $8.5e tdtla co..­
in the foil and Don Johnson in the 

,.............-....-. sabre with a longshot being Tony 
We are..., •fa•tee.Jro-:c.aapua Consoli," commented DeCicco. The Irish representatives will 
Hrs: Tues. Wed: 8:3()..5:30 fence tomorrow morning and after­54533 Terrace Lane Thur, Frl: 8:30·8:30 272·0312 noon under the guidance of their Across from Martin's Sat: 8:00·2:30 277 ·1819 
head coach, who is making the trip 

. St. Rd. 23 CIQ~ed Mon. 
to assume his position at a U.S. Olym­
pic Committee meeting.

***'Fii***"**********1ilflc*********** 
ONEGOOD,DEAL
DESERVESANO,.BER 
Now, in addition to getting a great deal on an Apple VISA. What could be easier...Fill in the coupon below, send Macintosh, St. Joseph Bank offers you three easy ways to it to the address listed and we'll send you all the necessary make your purchase. One way is to paperwork to make an Apple put no money down. take up to 24 Macintosh yours! Or visit your months to repay and pay an annual nearest St. Joseph Bank office and 
percentage rate of only 14°/o. one of our Professionals will be With attractive loan terms like this happy to serve you. available, you can't afford to pass 
Notre Dame and Apple deserve a 

up this once in a lifetime offer. 
lot of credit for putting together Or, open a Premier Credit Line such a great deal. And you deserve 
and write yourself a loan for your credit to help you buy your Macintosh. Premier Credit Line is a Macintosh. Talk to the · personal line of credit that enables Professionals, today! 
qualified customers to borrow money anytime. anywhere. 'simply by writing a check. 
Yet one more option for you is to charge the purchase of your Apple Macintosh on :your St. Joseph Bank ftJOSEPHBANK 
MEMBER FDIC 

The Observer Friday, February 1 7, 1984 -page 14 
Final home meet 

Wrestlers take on two foes tonight 
ByJOE BRUNETTI 
Sports Writer 
Tonight, the Notre Dame wres­
tling team will conclude its regular 
season schedule with a tri-meet 
against Purdue and Marquette at the 
ACC Pit at 7:30p.m. 
The Irish are on a three-match 
losing streak, but they have just 
come off an excellent showing in 
last weekend's Wheaton Invitational 
Tournament, finishing fourth. 
They will need whatever momen­tum they now have, though, if they hope to give Big Ten opponent Purdue a tough time. So confident art· the Boilermakers that their coach, Bill Trujillo, has said, "We should have no trouble coming away with two victories." 
Confidence is good, but cockiness is not. If Purdue comes to Notre Dame overconfident, it is possible that there could be a major surprise. 
"I think they'll be overconfident," says Irish mentor Tihamer Toth­Fejel. "If tht·y think they're going to win, then we'll have a good chance." 
Purdue is a strong team that com­
petes in the powerful Big Ten. It is 
H-1 0 overall and 4-S in conference 
matches. 
That record may seem weak, but Purdue has competed against some tough opponents. Last week the Boikrmakers lost to · nationally­ranked Wisconsin, 36-9. They also have lost to Minnesota. One of their confert·nce wins came against In· 
diana hy the score of 29-16. The Irish also heat Ill, 23-11. 
After three straight losses, the Irish arc hungry for a win, and an up­set of Purdue would give the Irish excellent momentum for NCAA Regionals. But, once again, the Irish arc an injury-laden squad with hare­Iy enough bodies to fill all tht' spots. 
At ISH, Notre Dame is affected by injuries more than any other spot. Starter Louis Carncsale is out with a torn hicep. Senior Pat Jolin took his place at the Wheaton Tourney, hut he poppt.·d his collarhone and could not wrestle Tuesday against IIJinois State. Transfer student (ireg Swartz took Jolin's place at ISH, hut now Swartz is in the infirmary. The Irish may he forced to pull graduate stu­dent Doug Skinner out of his wres· tling retirement for this one meet. 
Skinner wrestled three years for Notre Dame and has one year of eligibility kft. 
"Skinner is a good wrestler," com­ments Toth-Fejel. "He has put in a lot of time, and he would have a good chance ofwinning both (matches)." 
Either way Toth-Fejel will find a body to 1111 the position at ISH pounds. 
In the I.34 and 190 classes, the Irish will be forced to wrestle a man who has moved up a weight class. Sophomore Eric Crown. a 126­pounder, will wrestk at I 34 he­cause starter Glenn Glogas is injurnl. Matt Stamm is out at 190, so freshman Dave Helmer will wrestle up from 177. 
At JIH ami 167, Notre Dame will wrestle two stalwarts, freshman· Greg Fleming and sophomore John Krug. Heming has performed wdl 
NVA Pairs 
All matches must be played and reported Ia the NVA off1ce by today, Feb. 17 The NVA encourages all matches to be played and reported altha earhesl convenience. 
MEN'S RACQUETBALL DOUBLES 

Gels-Abd Allah (1480) v. K1mmei-Crouch (1694) Gardner-Bono (8646) v Magn-Z1mmer (1 059) Golub-Pravezek (6456) v. Barenton-ChludzlnSkl (3137) Weslhoven-Gral (361 0) v. Casey·Nichols (6633) 
D1ce-Kress (6536) v S~rnann-Hardek (1371) 
Ludtke· Wagner (6671) v. Lane-Hickey (1023) 
H1gg1ns-SuHer (1673) v Grotean-Radlmaker (1246) 
Balhon·HIIIerman (6313) v. Boyle-Clement (32f0) 
Rehder-Rogers (6022) v James-Connelly (1530) 
Sm1th·V1IIareal (1626) v. Coyle-Bianlon (6360) 
Dugan-Hudson (1620) v Bogg1o-Ryan (6459) 

John P.'"Sears 
Former Reagan Campaign Manager speaks on 
Nominating A President 1980's Style Library Aud. Saturday, February 18 3:30pm 
Sponsored by the Mock Convention 
NHL Standings 
In this year's NHL playoff format. the top lour teams 1n each division make the playoffs. regardless of over· all league standing. 
PRINCE OF WALES CONFERENCE Adams Division 
W  L  T  GF  GA Pta.  
Buffalo  37  16  6  240  193  60  
Boston  36  19  3  255  191  75  
Quebec  30  22  6  263  205  66  
Montreal  26  27  5  230  219  61  
Hartford  19  31  6  210  242  46  
Patrick Dlvtaton  
N.Y. Rangers  33  16  6  236  221  74  
N.Y. Islanders  35  22  2  255  206  72  
Washington  34  ·21  4  226  177  72  
Philadelphia  30  16  9  249  206  69  
New Jersey  13  41  5  166  249 31  
PiHsburgh  12  41  5  161  270  29  

CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dviaion 
W L T GF GA Pta Edmonton 40 14 5 327 247 65 Calgary 25 21 11 223 230 61 Winnipeg 20 26 10 244 269 50 Vancouver 22 32 6 233 249 50 Los Angeles 17 30 12 236 272 46 
Norris Division Minnesota 30 23 5 259 253 65 St. Louis 23 30 6 211 235 52 Chicago 22 31 7 205 225 51 Toronto 21 32 6 224 261 46 Detroit 20 32 7 215 254 47 
last night's Results New Jersey 6. Hartford 5 OT Philadelphia 5, St. Louis 2 -calgary 10. PiHsburgh 3 Washington 4, Los Angeles 2 Tonight's Games Minnesota at Buffalo Quebec at Winnipeg Boston at Edmonton Pittsburgh at Vancouver 


LUNCHAT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Monday, Feb. 20-11:30-1:30 
Nachos y Salsa Chips & Dip Chile con Carne Chile with meat Babida Drink Bunuelos Dessert 
All you can eat .... $3.25 Proceeds to benefit La Casa de Amistad 
Fr. Bruce Ritter 
of Covenant House I Under 21 Crisis Intervention Centers in New York City, Toronto. Houston, and Guatemala 
Will be speaking on: 
"Life On the Streets: Our Forgotten Children" 
Sunday, February 19 Library Auditorium 4:00 and 
"Child Prostitution, Organized Crime and the Law" 
Monday, February 20 ND Law School Am. 101 12 noon Sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission and the Law School Social Justice Forum 


~c:»cJlC3l~------------------------------------~F~ri~da~y~,F~e~b~ru~M~y~1~7,~1~9;8~4--~pa~g~e~l~5 
Bloom County 
&JOVMORNI~, WH0~1/
N616HOOR5! 1\\Kf .. 
.jf.,f CIROPPW --­
BY· 7V SAY HU. -­

I 
Mellish 


"Before I give you my check, do you have any Identification?" 
The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 

1 Weight measure: abbr. 
4 Exchange lee 8 Enjoythe pool 12 Extreme 
anger 13 Increase 14 Moslem 
messiah 15 Sandarac tree 16 Carnival 
attraction 17 Stranger 18 Br. prime 
minister 20 Large sea snail 
21 Styron novel 23 After HST 
24 Woodsman's 46 Kukla's
58 Foyor of Wis. 
tool Murphy 12 Crazes friend 
25 Hope 59 Fence of 14 An Osmond 28 Theater a kind 19 Assistants passage 60 Satanic 
20 Poisonous

32 1002 61 Get up 
22 Precise

33 Not crazy 62 Tilted 
degree

34 "You pays 63 -judicata 
26 Fairy tale 
your money 
opener
and you-" 
27 Pub offer· 

38 Leaveout DOWN 
ing

39 Remnant Rare 
28 At the peak 

40 Between: article 
29 "-Camera"

pref. 2 Hold 
30 Br. hoodlums

41 Kitchen 3 Fragrant 
31 Permit

utensil gum resin 
32 Mire

42 Grain 4 Consented 
33 Offspring

43 Voracious 5 Young 
35 Leavening

eater salmon 
agent

45 Lack of an 6 Of anele· 
36 Awareof

alternative ment 
37 Euphorias

52 Egg dish 7 Be in debt 
42 Farfrom

54 Vision 8 Frankish 
slender

55 Knobs 9 Young 
43 Hitchcock

56 Child herring 
classic

protection 10 Concept: 
44 Glacial

grp. comb. form 
mass

57 lt. money 11 Neighbor 
Berke Breathed 

ON BEHAcf OF B01H MY 
/?AI? ANI? 7H6 108ACCO 
INIJUSTRY, IP ~IK6 TO 
APOLOG/!6 PROFUSel-Y. 
\ 


Dave&_Dave 
:-­I wow! m Hosr 
EVEN DUBBEP IN A 
LAU61H71~£t\ ! 

The Far Side Gary Larson 

"I've had it! This time I've really had it! ... Jump the fence again, will he? ... Dang!" 
47 Himalayan 51 Cousin country of etc. 48 Certain 52 Czech vessel river 49 "My peace 53 Skirt -unto you" style 50 Tennis 56-Na Na name 
Thursday's Solution 
AMER.ALECISCAPA MORO.LAVA HOMER OTIC.AOEN ALINE
R0 C kA.'lti•A
.RAYS TEALS 1-B EN T T 0 P 0 F F C A SA. I RAN T AIBTO R 
H E E L.pA L E R. C 0 R E 
A R As sjTnvrE L K E 
P 0 R 0 UIS LEAR­···ALICE MOSS• CPO•KNUTER CKNE RADII.RHEA KAEL AROSE.VOLT ETAL MARTS.ESSE TEDS 
2/17/84 
Campus 
•7 
p.m. -Film, "Target Nicaragua: Inside the Covert War," Center for Social Concerns 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "The 'chosen," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Sopho­more Literary Festival, $1 

•7 
p.m. -SMC Basketball, SMC vs Aquinas Col­lege, Angela Athletic Facility 

•7:30 
p.m. -FridayNight Film Series, "The Man Who Fell To Earth," Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Wrestling, ND vs Purdue, Mar­quette, ACC 

•8 
p.m. -Performance, Second City, O'Laughlin Auditorium, $3 


Saturday, Feb 18 
•3:30 p.m. -Speech, "Nominating A President­1980's Style," John P. Seary, Sponsore.j by Mock Convention, Library Auditorium 
Sunday, Feb 19 
•2 
p.m. Film, "O'Keefe," Annenberg Auditorium, S1 

•3 
p.m. -Lecture/Demonstration, ARS Musica, Little Theatre 

•4 
p.m. -Concert, ARS Musica, O'Laughlin Hall, Tickets required 

•7, 
9, and II p.m. -Film , "The Chosen," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Sopho­more Literary Festival, $1 

•7 
p.m. -International Students Meeting, ISO Lounge, LaFortune 

•8 
p.m. -World Hunger Coalition Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 


TV Tonight 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 
16 Legman 
22 Dukes ofHazzard 
28 1984 Winter Olympics 
34 Washington Week in Review 
34 Wall Street Week 
16 TheMa~ter 22 Dallas 
34 Inside Business Today 
34 Enterprise 
16 The New Show 22 Falcon Crest 34 Austin City Limits 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 16 Tonight Show 22 CBS Late Movie 28 Thicke ofthe Night 

• 
l ,&nior Bar Tribute to l
•
•
• 
l~-J · George Washington l
•
• Mandatory Candiaates 

• 
t ..--=-~
•
•• Meeting t All specials and drinks : 
• t the same low price t
• for: class office 
•
• Off Camp-us Commissioner t t •• Monday, Feb. 20 7 p.m. t Sat Feb 18 t
•
• 
LaFortune Little Theatre : Bar wUI be closed : 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Battered Irish travel to West to try to stop BYU's explosive offense 
The-Observer/File: Photo 

Devin Durrant is the man Notre Dame must stop tomorrow ifit is to har•e any hope of beating Brigham Young in Prooo, Utah. Durrant was ar•eraging 29.2 points per contest going into the C!ougars' game with San Diego St. last night. For more on tomor­row's match-up, see]effBlumb'spreviewat right. 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Assistant Sports Editor 
PROVO, Utah -With relatively notl1ing to lose and a chance to gain somj:: new respect, nine survivors of the 1983-84 Notre Dame basketball season travel here tomorrow to meet the Cougars ofBrigham Young University ( 5 p.m. EST -USA Net­work). 
The Irish will have only nine players available to them in the game because of injuries to Tim Kempton and JoJo Buchanan, the academic ineligibility of two others, and the fact that walk-on Casey Newell will not make the trip. 
The most recent prognosis on Kempton is that he will not play anymore during the regular season because of his stress fracture, but could return for any post-season pia~ the Irish might take part in. Buc­hamin's status is similar to Kempton's. He is doubtful for tomorrow's game and it is likely that his nagging tendonitis will be rested for the duration of the regular sea.'ll.>n, leaving Joe Howard as the only Notre Dame point guard. 
The nine who do play tomorrow will have quite a task at hand. Besides having to stop an explosive BYU offense that averages over 80 points a game and ranks in the top ten in the country, Notre Dame will have its hands full trying to shut down the Cougars' Devin Durrant. 
Durrant, who has been the na­tion's leading scorer for much ofthis season, held a 29.4-point average going into BYlJ's game with San 

CSCHL title on line 
Hockey team faces crucial series 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
HUNTSVILLE, Ala. -The Notre D;,me hockey team resumes Central States Collegiate Hockey League ac­tion tonight and tomorrow here in lh•ntsville. Boasting a 21-1-1 overall record and a 13-0-0 mark in league play, the Irish will receive by far their biggest challenge from a CSCH!.. opponent. 
Alabama comes into the weekend series 22-4 overall and 14-0-0 in CSCHLplay. 
In the CSCHI, the league cham­pion is determined on a percentage ba.o;is and all teams do not necessari­ly play the same number of games. With this bdng the last w<.·ekend of CSCII!.. action, it is crucial for Notre Dame to either sweep both games of the series or, at the very lea.o;t, come away with a win and a tic to win the rt·gular-season title. 
Huntsville is tht· lone Division II varsity team in the CSCIIL And, in an ironic twist, it is not coming to Notre Dame for the league playoffs the first wet·kend in Man:h. Instead, it is hosting five teams for its own tournament which is being billed a.o; the World Club Sport Hockey Cham­pionship. 
Alabama, outside the league, has beaten Air Force in three of four mt·etings this season. It ha.o; also had the same success against Penn State, the same team that the Irish earned a win and a tie with last weekend in Johnstown, Pa. Two ofits four losses came at the hands of Miami ofOhio, a member of the Central Collegiate Hockey As..'ll.>ciation, Notre Dame's old conference. 
"Huntsville doesn't carry the name like other hockey colleges be­
program, and the city has taken to it 
with great interest." 

To demonstrate its interest in just the Notre Dame series, Alabama called and asked permission to use the Notre Dame logo to sell T-shirts -several weeks ago. 
Ticket sales are also said to be going well, with crowds of four to six thousand expected for each night. 
"With both games in their arena, the atmosphere will inspire us to play well," says Dave Waldbillig. "It's almost like a North-South rivalry. And, with the two top teams in the league, it should make for interest­ing competition." 
The Chargers are a physical team with a good passing offense, so a solid performance from the Irish will be necessary in both games if they are to be successful. 
"This is our biggest series to date," says Greg Duncan. "At our team meeting the other day, we decided that we must really go out and work hard. Some teams haven't been as sharp, but now we must put every­thing aside and give it everything we've got." 
Notre Dame will be without the servkes of Steve Whitmore, who is suffering from a severe thigh contu­sion received in last Friday's game at Penn State. Bob Thebeau is having trouble with back spasms and sat out workouts on Tuesday and Wednes­day in order to rest for the weekend. 
With Whitmore out, Rick Ken­nedy will move up and play right wing on the third line with Waldbi1­lig and Tom Parent. 
On the Irish scoring chart, co­captain Brent Chapman remains on top with 24 goals and 34 assists. His linemate Adam Parsons is second who has scored seven goals and dished out seven assists in the last five games, also has 39 points. He has scored 1 5 goals and added 24 assists. 
Tim Lukenda will get the starting nod in the Notre Dame nets tonight at the Werner Van Braun Civic Arena. He is 5-0 in CSCHL play with a 
1.60 goals against average. Smith has yet to make a decision on his starter for Saturday. 
With Notre Dame hoping to leave Alabama with a league title, ·the Chargers could be in for their tough­est competition of the year in front oftheir home crowd. 
Diego St. last night. He has lead the Cougars in scoring in all but two of their games this year, after doing the same in all but three games last season. 
The BYU star was held to just 13 points last Sunday against George­town, something Phelps largely at­tributes to the Hoyas' excellent quickness. The Irish, however, ob­viously do not have that same quick­ness and will really have their work cut out for them. 
Still, Notre Dame has had excel­lent success in stopping the big guns ofother teams so far this season. Wit­ness the job they did on Washing­ton's Detlef Schrempf and Villanova's Ed Pinckney, as well as both Len Bias and Adrian Branch of Maryland. 
A starter in all of BYll's games since he was a freshman, Durrant took two years off after his sopho­more season in order to serve on a church mission in Spain -just as if the Cougars had red-shirted him for two years. A 6-7, 20 1-pound for­ward, Durrant wa.o; the unanimous choice a.o; the Western Athletic Con­ference's player-of-the-year la.o;t season. 
Aserious all-America candidate, Durrant also played for the llnited States in the World University Games la.o;t summer in Edmonton. As expected, he usually plays the entire game. 
"He's very tough to stop," says Irish coach Digger Phelps of Dur­rant, "because he draws the fouls very well, he works to get open, and he's not afraid to put it up anytime. 
"I don't think you can play one defense against Brigham Young. I think you have 10 keep mixing your defenses and, yet, he'll get his points. I mean, that's one thing about him, he's just a yery aggres.o;ive offensive player." 
"He can get shots through cracks in the floor sometimes," first year 
see COUGARS, page 12 
Women look for third win in row at Detroit tomorrow 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will try for its third straight victory tomorrow night as it travel-; to Detroit to tak<.· on the Lady Titans ofthe University ofDetroit. The Irish will also be looking for their second straight victory over the Titans. Ifthey are success­ful, it would mark their longest wining streak ofthe waning sca.'ion. 
On Tuesday, Mary DiStanislao and her players got a good look at what they can expect tomorrow at Calihan Hall when Dewayne Jones's team visited the ACC. The Irish won the game, 72-67, but the Titans showed that they could present some problems with their run-and-gun style of play. They forced Notre Dame to turn the ball over 17 times, keeping the Irish from running away for an ea.o;y win_ In front of its own crowd, which should number more than I000, Detroit will be even tougher. 
If the Irish are going to win, they must do another good job of defending Titan star freshman Cassandra Pack. Pack, who had been averaging more than 1 7 points a game, was held to just 13 points on 6-of-17 shooting Tuesday. 
At the same time, the Irish must do a better job controlling Regina Pierce, the Detroit guard who led all scorers in Tuesday's game with 23 points. However, DiStanislao would be happy to have her shoot as poorly (9-of-25) as she did in scoring her Points. Pierce is the key to Detroit, however, as she runs the sometimes-wild Titan offense and press. 
The only other Titans that made major impacts on Tuesday were forward Bridget Howard and center Lori Tennant. Howard pulled down eight rebounds and scored 14 points, while Tennant led Detroit with nine rebounds. 
Balanced scoring is what helped the Irish to victory Tuesday and will be necessary again tomorrow. Mary Beth Schueth, Carrie Bates, Lavetta Willis, and Ruth Kaiser all scored in double figures in the first Detroit game. Eight different players have scored in double figures in the last two games, so the Titans will have a hard time trying to focus on one or two players. That could be the edge for Notre Dame as it tries to lift its record to I 1-1 2. 


The: O~rvc=r/Paul Cifanlli 

cause hockey is not real big in the  with 24 goals and 29 assists, while  The Notre Dame hockey team travels to Huntsville,  in the two games to take the CSCHL title. For morr! on  
South," says Irish head coach Lefty  Mike Metzler is third with 39 points  Ala., this weekend for a series with Alabama­ this important series, see Ed Domansky's preview at  
Smith. "They have developed a great  on 18 goals and 21 assists. Thebeau,  Huntsville. The Irish must haveatleast a win anda tie  left.  


