Tax system -page 7 


Mondale wins in New York 
Associated Press campaign) spent maybe three times, The victory was dramatic maybe four times as much money as evidence that Mondale had com­NEW York -Walter F. Mondale we did," Mondale said. "But pleted a comeback in the won the New York presidential 
Americans weren't looking at that. Democratic fight, and an indication primary election yesterday night Citizens of New York were asking 
that Hart's "new ideas" candidacyand claimed the victory he needed that key question (who would make 
faces difficulty in the weeks ahead. to regain command over Sen. Gary a better president), and I think that's Hart, who campaigned yesterdayHart in the race for the Democratic 
why we won." in Pennsylvania, next week's stop on presidential nomination. 
With S 7 percent of the vote in, it the election calendar, must move "We had a very good day today in was: 
swiftly if he is to stall his rival's drive New York," Mondale said. Mondale, 527,802 or 49 percent. for the nomination. "Apparently we did well across the 
Hart, 221.401, 53 percent. Only three weeks ago, Hart's can­board." 
Jackson, 99,053, 1 S percent. didacy was on a roll, winning several Based on polling-place inter­The rest was scattered among 
early primaries and caucuses. 
views, the television networks said Democratic dropouts. 
But Mondale quit campaigning as Hart was in a closer-than-expected Wisconsin Democrats held a 
a serenely confident front-runner contest for second place with the "beauty contest" primary Tuesday. 
and became the aggressor in the Rev. JesseJackson. 
in advance of next Saturday's race, moving on to defeat Hart in the Jackson was polling exceptionally caucuses when 78 convention 
Illinois primary two weeks ago and well in New York City, apparently delegates arc at stake. 
taking aim in New York. winning about 80 percent of the 
With 81 percent of the state's Hart said New York was not that 
black vote. 

3,550 precincts reporting, Hart led critical to his chances for the Some 252 convention delegates Walter F. Mondale, 45 percent to 42 nomination, and he already was The: Obs~rvc:r/Carol Gales were at stake -the biggest single­percent, and CBS news predicted 
looking ahead to Pennsylvania state prize so far and, next to Califor­that the Colorado senator would 
But New York is the kind ofstate nia, the largest ofthe year. win. 
that a Democrat must carry to defeat "In New York, they (the Hart 
Hart had 242,812 votes to President Reagan next fall, and the Mondale's 225,797. The Rev. Jesse Mondale victory would blunt Hart's Jackson was a distant third with claim that only he can capture the 56,589 or II percent. White House for the Democrats. 
President Reagan-Yes was piling

Candidates take stands in debate 
up 93 percent ofthe vote in the Wis· While there are still hundreds of consin GOP primary. Reagan-No had delegates to be chosen, each state

ByJOHN GORLA to make a statement to the nation." Jackson, represented by Griffin, 7 percent. There was no GOP line on that Mondale wins makes it thatNews Staff On the issue of national defense asserted that present defense policy 
the ballot in New York. much more difficult for Hart.

and foreign policy, all candidates, is "Lacking in human rights and the Speaking through the mouth of except for JesseJackson, agreed that worth of individuals." Jackson student representative Piper Griffin, America must increase its defense recommends that we address the 
Halls to vote on allowing

JesseJackson was the only one ofthe spending, though the amount of in-issue that is at hand by initiating talks eight Democratic presidential can­crease differed among the can-between the Soviet Union and the didates to call for reduced defense didates. United States. 

0-C commissioner on HPC 

spending at last night's pre-mock All candidates stressed that the Gary Hart's defense policy, convention debate. U.S. must take the initiative with· presented by Bernie Pellegrino, was By KEITH HARRISON,JR. voting powers. The commissioner's 
The debate took place last night regard to nuclear arms reductions centered around a modified bilateral StaffReporter senate seat was abolished at the Stu­before a large crowd of delegates, and nuclear arms talks/treaties. Also, freeze and the elimination of des­dent Senate meeting Monday night. supporters, and interested on­the candidates strongly opposed tabilizing nuclear weapons such as The process of making the off­In other business, Ombudsman lookers in the Hayes-Healy Center defense projects such as the B-1 multiple warhead missiles. Accord­campus commissioner a member of Henry Sienkiewicz discussed the auditorium. bomber and the MX missile. ing to Hart, "Better is better, but we the Hall President's Council entered recently-installed message boards in 
Bill Healy, chairman of the plat­Representing Reubin Askew, need a leaner military defense sys­its second stage last night at the HPC the dining halls. He also outlined the form committee, said this debate Dave McAvoy said that Askew tern with cost effective weaponry." meeting. process for advertising on the was held to, "Put a stance behind pledges, "A distinction between real Mike Brogioli illustrated Walter This stage involves individual hall boards. All messages should be sub­each face," and to inform the Notre peace and imaginary peace." As-Mondale's defense plan with th<;: ratification of the proposal. "Each of mitted at least two days before the Dame students of where each can­kew's says the U.S. must show readi-phrase, "It is an obligation to our age the halls must vote on the issue," desired advertising date. didate stands on issues such as ness and strength in world politics. to keep peace." Mondale sees a need said Student Body Vice President Sienkiewicz said that individual defense, and education. Joe Malvezzi, a dynamic speaker, for a strengthened NATO alliance Cathy David. "If two-thirds of the dorms may use the board to 
Although some of the candidates delivered Ernest Hollings' beliefthat with our allies playing a larger part halls accept the proposal, it will publicize hall events. Walsh presi­have dropped out of the national the draft should be instituted to in-than they previously have. Mondalc become part ofthe Constitution." dent Gretchen Froehlke asked if race for the Presidency, the crease our manpower in Europe, is also directly opposed to President The proposal would only give the advertising for events involving al­representatives here have decided and that students who don't register Reagan's 'Star Wars' defense policy. OC commissioner a seat on the HPC; cohol would be prohibitted. "You to continue campaigning, as Healy with the selective service should be the HPC then would determine 
see DEBATE, page 5 see HPC, page 6

said, "To allow Notre Dame students denied any loans. whether or not he would have 

The Five Horsemen ofNotre Dame 
A group of ultra-preppies, books in band and calculators on belt, take a break from their demanding studies to go horse­back riding at the Diamond-D­Rancb in Cassopolis, Michigan. The group is the infamous Bookstore Basketball team the "Esophagus Constrictors," who will once again demonstrate their superb athletic talent in a first round game against Gerry Fausfs team, "Old Men on the Block," Tuesday at 6:15p.m. on Bookstore Court Nine. Left to right are David Proulx, joseph Aiu, Mark English, David Sul­livan, and Michael Demcbsak. 

lucian Niemrycr 
The Observer Wednesday, Apri14, 1984-page 2 


In Brief 
The registration deadline for the L ..uana 
presidential and congressional primaries is April 9. In the May 8 primaries candidates will he chosen for the Novemher election of 
U.S. congressmen from each of Indiana's I 0 districts and the presi­dent. On the state level, candidates will he chosen for governor, for 2 <; of the ';() St·n:lle seats and for all I00 memhers of the House of Rt·prt·st·ntatives. Some local offices will also he on the ballot. All 18 year old li.S. citizens who have lived in this precinct for at least 30 days can register in the County-City Building in South Bend. Absen­tet· hallots for students who wish to vote in their home states must bt· obtained through the voter registration offices in their home counties. Some counties purge the names of those who have not vott·d in the past two years. If in doubt, check with your county voter registration office. -The Obsen,er 
The "Save the Lawns" campaign is again 
underway. Dean ofStudentsJames Roemer has requested that all ball games, including frisbee and football, be played on the fields ad­jacent to the quad areas located around Stepan Center, the ACC and Grt•t·n field. -The Obsen,er 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, 
will ht· awarded the National Academy of Sciences Public Welfare Medal April 50 at the organization's 121 st annual meeting in Wash­ington, D.C.. On April 9 in LaCrosse, Wis., Heshurgh will receive the Pope John XXIII Award for Distinguished Service from Viterbo Col­lege. On April 28 arid May 13th he will receive honorary degrees from, respectively, Saint Leo College in St. Leo, Fla., and West Vir­ginia Wesleyan College in Buckhannon, W. Va. The latter honorary degret· will he his 99th. -The Observer 
Amnesty Internationalyesterdayreleased a rt·port claiming prisoners have been tortured or cruelly treated in at least one out of every three countries within the past four years. The report, "Torture in the Eighties," marks the start of a long-term campaign hy tht· worldwide human rights movement to e;l(pose and l'IHitht· use of torture "as a tool ofstate policy." -The Obsemer 
Of Interest 
A Student Information System presentation will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m. in room 247 O'Shaugnessy. SIS is a series ofCOBOL programs currently used by the Computer Applica­tions department. The system, developed over the past year, is available for use in other departments. The main programmer is 
Frank  Woczyna.  He will  be assisted  by  Marita Aragones in the  
prt·st·ntation. -The Observer  
William Mondale, son  of Democratic Presidential  

Candidatt· Walter Mondale, will be speaking at the Mock Convention tonight at 7. Before the speech, Mondale will hold a press con­ference and reception in the Library Lounge, beginning at 6. -The Obsen,er 
Italian Culture Week continues today with a lecture by Prof. Paolo Cherchi of the University ofChicago. Cherchi will speak on 'The Disease of Love" in the Faculty Lounge of the Memorial Library. Also planned for today will be an Italian dinner in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dining halls. In addition, two films, "Students in Rome" and "Rome, the Eternal City" will be shown bq~inning at 7 tonight in the Cushwa-Leighton Library, Saint Mary's. -The Obsen,er 
Weather 
Surprise again. Snow possibly 
mixed with rain today, and windy and cold. llighs in tilt· upper 50s. Winds northeastt:rly I'; to 2'; mph. A SO percent chance of snow, windy and cold tonight, with lows in the low .~Os. Gradual clearing and not as cold tomor­row. with highs in the 40s. 

The Observer 
The Oh,t·rvt:r ( l ~p~ ';99 L HUll) l i~ puhll!'\ht·t.l \lonllrJ~ through h1d01~ .111d un hona· toot hall !"'~llurd.a~ "'· t'Xu:pl durint( t·x.am .md \,lc,:.ueon pt·riod~ 'l'ht• Obst·rver ~~ puhl1..,hnf h) rfw ..rudt'llh of tlu· I lliH'f"'ll\ ot Nntn: I>Jmt· ~111d \,mu Mo&n ·, Cullq.~c.: '-tuh~t·npt•on~ ma~ ht· pun h.t~c.:d fur S.!'i pt.T ~t·ar ( S I .c:; l'll'f !'ll'llll'"h:r) h\ "riling The Ohservc..·r. 
P ( l Uox f.). Notrt·l>omw. lnlliJIU 1h'\'ih Tht.· Observer i!'l.l nu·mtn·r of The A~­S.,)(.'iart•d Pres.rt. All rt·prodtll'lion nghr' 
Today·~ issut· \\ a!'l producc..·d hy: 
Jlrodw:lion Consultant .................. Stcvt.· /)(•sign Editor. .............. Guillt:rmo Suarez IJesign .·l.~sistanl .. .... I.e:\' Chapdsky 7)•pt•st·tters.. . . ...... Mic:hdlt·. .Jt.:nnifc.:r Neu•s Editor... . ..... Mary Healy Cop)• J:"clitor..... . ........ Liz Millc:r .'fJort . ._ Cup)• Fditor ............ Man: Ramirei'. 
,V/J Dt~J' /:'tliJor... .. .. Mdind;:J Moore.· 
.1'.11(.' {)a)' /:'tli/or..... . ........Jody Radla PhtJ/t)grapher .... .......... Carol Gait-s 

.. :... 

No hope for an FM station? 


·----------------------------~ 
Math, Physics, Chemistry & GOTASCOOP? 
Engineering Majors: Could you use $24,000 cash your last two years of college? 
Did you know that it is possible for you to start a career in the Nuclear Engineering field while still in college? 
If you are a student 
in good academic standing and have com­pleted one year each of calculus and physics, you may qualify for the Navy Nuclear Power Candidate Program. In ~· addition, you could ceive up to $25,000 in your junior and •'· senior years just for ·~ going to school. ~·
After / . commissioning, you will receive over $24,000; and over $42,000 after four years as a commissione~ officer. We operate 70% of the reactors in America and our nuc lE<; r trained officers are sought by other companies ...but we make it worthwhile to stay with us! 
Pick up the phone 
For more information on the Navy's Nuclear Engineering 1 program --$1000 per month salary and $24,000 bonus,
and give 
1 1\'~llf~*'c\rt-911, free 1-800-382-9782.

. r '"" ··-: 
I

The Observer a call: 
1 Navy Representative will be on campus: 239-5303 
I April10·12, 1984 


•___________.__ .L ___________ •__.?~-~~~-~l a~~ment Office . . J 
. 

-.. -.......,.mr --------------------~­
It sounded like a good idea. In fact, many students c<insidered it about time a major university like Notre Dame, with a reputable communications department, entered the age of radio with the proposed WVFI-FM student run radio station. 
But now something has gone· horribly wrong. The chances that this exciting new project will actually he realized next year are being described as "slim'" by Paul Matwiy, a special consultant hired to organize the AM to FM jump. The application to the Federal Communica· tion Commission for the necessary license is being withheld until a reasonable chance of it being granted 
can be assured. 

Jim McDonnell, director ofstudent activities, said in October, "The administration made the decision to en· dorse the move last spring and is 100 percent behind it." He added that the application process would be completed and submitted within a month. 
Now, six months later, the students are still waiting and the future of the station looks dismal indeed. Matwiy told The Obsemer a few days 
If7 6:53 

ago, "We don't want to around the country it would
CAMPtJj tJ 

promise the students a new seem that if the administra­
fOR1HE o5TA110N,

FM radio station unless we uRRAf)' M tion was truly " I00 percent have a good shot at it." oNYo wvFI-F ··· behind" this project,it could It appears the hopeful op­
certainly call in a fdv favors timism found at the birth of to ensure that the applica­
v 

this project has met with the tion is granted. But since it is reality of the federal still up in the air, the ad­bureaucracy and WSND staf­ministration seems unwill­fers are now discouragingly ing to make the effort to expecting the worst. We are improve student life by being told of options being offering the students a considered to the proposed service that is an important FM station. These options in­given to campus life at other clude a carrier current sys­colleges and universities. 
tem which will transmit the The current state of the 
station's signal in stereo over the AM band. 
This is an innovative and interesting alternative. But it fails to alleviate many of the major problems already inherent in the current WSND-AM station; problems like the low quality ofreception or the total inability to receive the signal in many ofthe dorms on campus, and no signal being transmitted to portable radios or to stu­dents living offcampus. 
What we need is not options but action on the original idea. A legitimate radio station operated by stu­dents and catering to the students' needs is taken for granted on many other campuses. Some schools, like Brigham Young University, even have their own stu­dent operated television station. While offering the stu­dent a contemporary and up-to-date playlist of music, those planning on entering the broadcasting field could take advantage of hands-on experience that is vital in training for such a career. 
The potential of the improved radio station was seemingly limitless. Students could be alternately en-
Dan McCullough 
News Editor 
Inside Wednesday 

tertained by the music and informed through news and 
public service announcements. Acompetitiveness even 
may have developed between WVFI and The Obsemer 
improving the quality of both news staffs and lessening 
the dependence upon the newspaper as the sole com­
municator of campus news. Area restaurants would 
likely he anxious to advertise on a station that served 
over 12,000 consumers, and revenue could be raised to 
improve facilities. The ability ofa campus radio station 
to achieve these objectives has been proven on count­
less other campuses. 
With all of the influential
AND TIME 

alumni in Washington and
e.wj 

radio station is dishearten­
ing. Those halls that can receive the signal must put up with the annoying distor­tion that accompanies the transmission over the electri­cal outlet. The eager and talented people who produce the programs daily must sometimes ask themselves, "Is anybody really listening?" 
An FM radio station was a viahle solution to one of many problems with campus life. It was one of the rare occasions when the administration seemed willing to cooperate with students to improve the community. In short, it seemed too good to he true. 
As it turns out, it was. 

The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
" 
The Observer Wednesday, April 4, 1984 -page 3 

The remains of an auto lies on a Durban, South people were killed and five reported hurt in the blast Africa, street following a car bomb explosion explo-in which buildinRS andparked cars were damaged. sifm during yesterday morning's rush hour. Three (see story below) 
Car bomb explodes in South Africa 
Associated Press outside. A number of cars were on Cape Town, called the bombing "a fire. I could actually see people cowardly and insane deed," and said 
DURBAN, South Africa -A car dying. The car used in the explosion it proved the ANC had no regard for bomb that "felt like an earthquake" was completely a white mass, it had "innocent members ofthe public." exploded near a government build­no form. Another car was burning, The ANC told The Associated ing yesterday morning, killing three cars were careening into each other. Press from its Lusaka, Zambia, office people and wounding at least 16. that it "cannot comment on the Dur­
Norman Ludwin, a bass player in "It definitely appears to be a warn­ban bomb for the moment." the Natal Philharmonic Orchestra ing," said Ludwin. "It could have The bomb went off at 7:34a.m. on from Santa Monica, Calif., said his been done a short while later, with a boulevard running along this In­23rd-floor apartment shuddered for many more casualties. It's not the dian Ocean city's harbor, two blocks several seconds from the force ofthe height ofrush hour yet at 7:3.0," from the main shopping area. The blast across the street. There was no immediate claim of stolen Datsun 120Y sedan used in 
"It felt like an earthquake," he said responsibility for the blast. But Law the bombing was reduced to rubble, in a telephone interview. "Being and Order Minister Louis le Grange and windows were shattered up to froin California, I have intimate blamed the African National the 13th floor in a 31-story apart­knowledge of earthquakes. The Congress, the outlawed black guer­ment building across the street. Ten boom was of such intensity, rilla group fighting to overthrow other moving and parked cars were 'earthquake' was my first thought." South Africa's white-minority damaged. 
Ludwin said he raced to the win­government. A police spokesman said the dead 
dow and saw "a panic situation Le Grange, in a statement issued in were a white woman, a black man and a black woman. The injured in­cluded two white children, both 4
f""Corby}] 

years old, who were riding in a pas­
WEDNESDAY SPECIAL 
sing car.~~···· Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 Across the street from the explo­sion is an office ofthe Department of
OPEN TO CLOSE 
Internal Affairs, which administers some laws concerning apartheid ­South Africa's strict system of racial segregation. The building also houses the South African Indian 
Council, an elected body with some authority over Indian affairs. 
: PSYCHOLOGY WORKSHOP : 
• Majors and Prospective Majors •
• • The council has agreed to take part in a new constitution giving Asian and mixed-race minorities
• Wed. 7:00, Little Theatre, LaFortune • 
separate chambers of Parliament. The ANC and other apartheid op­
• Career, Grad School, Undergrad • 
ponents say the new constitution 
: Course Info. : 
entrenches apartheid and ignores the voteless black majority ofnearly 21 million.
!••··························· 
Clubs and Organizations 

d!. --®/. ,/·'I 
~ 
:.. ~ ~ / ..., 
. 

,, C) ' / 
April is the time to re-register for the 84-85 school year Re-registration is mandatory for all groups. Forms are also available for applying for Activity Fee Funding tor next year, and also for Football Concession· Stands for the Fall. Deadline for applying is April 30. Forms are available in the Studen~ Activities Office, LaFortune. 
\~,~~~=======================================================================:==============~ 
ND senior to get award for COITliTlunity service 
By MIKE ELLIOTT ding, "she is non-self centered. 
News Staff dents " . . . now is the time to 
reaffirm our values and establish 
"Surprised" is how Notre Dame priorities, so that we can carry them senior, ). Elizabeth Ellery described with us, away from the security of her feelings upon finding out she Notre Dame." will recieve the Notre Dame Alumni Looking back on her time spent at Association's third annual Distin­Notre Dame, Ellery praised the guished Student Award. The Distin­sense of community which gives guished Student Award was Notre Dame its uniqueness, and she established in 1982 to honor a encouraged students to reach out senior who has contributed out­and share that sense of community standing service to the University with others. and the community. On the student role in community 
Aphilosophy major in the College service, Ellery said, "the danger is 
of Arts and Letter's pre-professional program, Ellery has been active on and offcampus during her four years at Notre Dame. 
Ellery has served on the Provost's Curriculum Review Committee, the Advisory Council of Women Stu­dents, and Sophomore Class Coun­
cil. As a resident of Lewis Hall, she was active in the Young Life Program and drama, and also found time to inaugurate a Sunday school for pre-schoolers at Sacred Heart Church. She was also named to the Oean's Honor list seven times. 

However, Ellery is· much more 
J. Elizabeth Ellery 
than a list ofachievements, her close friends pointed out. She was charac­the tendency for us to become com­'erized by her friends as" ...a com-placent about what we stand for." 1Jiex person, who is very interested She added, "that's why community in people in a very sincere way," ad­service is important, it forces us to 
reaches out to others, and has a examine what we believe.". A 
liveliness about her that comes from Ellery was selected for her award 
her active spiritual relationship with by representatives of the Office of 
God...she is a wonderful friend." Student Affairs, rectors, Campus 
Ellery wt:nt on to encourage Ministry, Center for Social Con­
Notre Dame students to continually cerns, and deans of the University. 
challenge themselves by testing She will receive the award at a 
their talents and critically examin­ceremony on April 27 in the Center 
ing their beliefs. She advised stu-· for Continuing Education. 

Sessions start tomorrow for Mock Convention 
ByAMY STEPHAN sible democratic vice presidential AssistantNews Editor nominee; Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, who will Democratic National Chairman address the nuclear issue; and 
Charles Manatt, Rep. Lindy Boggs, D­Manatt. 
La., and William Mondale, son offor­Nominations and balloting for a 
mer Vice President Walter Mondale, democratic nominee for president 
will address more than a thousand will take place at Friday night's ses­
delegates in Notre Dame's twelfth sion, beginning at 7 in Stepan Cen­
Mock Convention tonight at 7 in ter. In addition, Rep. Romano 
Stepan Center. Mazzoli, D-Ken., a Notre Dame 
Mondale will speak at tonight's alumnus, and State Representative 
opening session along with Ron William Crawford, who will speak 
Mottl, a former Ohio representative on behalf of the Rev. jesse jackson, 
and a Notre Dame alumnus; Gary will address the delegates. 
Caruso, legislative director of the The convention ends Saturday 
House Committee on Select Educa­with the selection of a democratic 
tion and a 1973 Notre Dame vice presidential nominee and an ac­
graduate who was a part of the 1972 ceptance speech by the presidential 
Mock Convention; and former Ohio nominee. 
Governor John Gilligan, now a Speaking Saturday will be Michael 
professor at Notre Dame's Law Barnes, a local congressional can­
School. didate in South Bend; Michael Tur­
The convention rules and plat­pen, attorney general of Oklahoma 
form committees will present their and prominent Oklahoma democrat; 
reports tonight. The platform will be and Jim Ridenour, libertarian can­
considered and voted on tomorrow, didate for governor ofIndiana. 
starting at 6 p.m., also in Stepan Cen­,The sessions are open only to 
ter. delegates, and there will be conces­
Tomorrow's speakers include: sions selling snacks and soft drinks 
Boggs, who some consider a pos-inside Stepan Center. 
~~

I I
PROGRAMMING BOARD S NEEDS YOU! ~ Accepting Applications For ~ 

§
-Irish Gardens Manager § -Darby's Place manager §
IApplications available at the Student Acliv-1 ~ ities Board Offices on the 2nd floor of § § LaFortune. 
JS 
~ Applications due in by 4PM Friday, April 6th. 
'~~..r..r..r.J""JO""...ooocc:o-...oo--..r~...coo-..r..r~o4""...C 

The Observer Wednesday, April 4, 1984 -page 4 

Associated Pres~ 

WASIIIN<iTON Rt·agan·~ S<>l 
labor advist:r~. 
l·:dwanl M. 
two days on tht· i~sue 

<>.~·2'l 
million. 

len Spcncr. H-Pa.. 
paccnt of tht· fund~ 
dict in till' 
Sen~. 
tophn Dodd, D-Conn.. 
dict. 
St·n. Tt·d Senatt· Majority Whip, said ht· saw no possibility that either Specter's ametHin!l'nt, or a restructured Ken­nnly amn1dment would pass. 
In the !louse, a hill to prohibit n!l'rchant~ from demanding extra ft.·es from <.-redit card customers through mid-llJH'l passed hy a 3'l'l­:\4 vott·. The mt:asure now moves to the Senate, which sent the House a hill that would authorize such sur­charges, up to 'l pc:rcent. 
hill. 
Back in the Senate, the l'oreign Rdations Committee approved an amendment that requires the presi­dent to certify that Pakistan doesn't possess an atomic bomb as a condi­tion for further aid to that country. Tht· committee voted 9-H to modify a harsher provision that would have banned aid to Pakistan unless Reagan certit1cs the country is not ueveloping a nuclear bomb. 
Marvin Gaye's father charged with murder 
Associated Press Deputy District Attorney Robert 
Schirn. who t11ed the charge, 
LOS ANGELES -The father of decided against a manslaughter soul singer Marvin Gaye was count because "of the state of mind charged ycstaday afternoon with of the shooter," Albergate said. murut·r in the shooting death of his "There were two shots fired and son following an argument over a there wa~ a signit1cant lapse of time misplaced letter, authorities said. between shots to warrant the t1ling 
Marvin Gaye Sr., 70, will be ar­ofa murder charge," Schirn said. raigned today in Superior Court. said Gayc Sr. was arrested Sunday at AI Alhergatc, spokesman for the dis­home, where he allegedly shot the trkt attorney's office. sweet-voiced Motown star after 
"We have not specified the degree quarrelling over a lost letter from an ofmunler," Albcrgate said. "It could insurance company, said Lt. Robert he t1rst-or sccond-dt:gree." Martin, commander of the 
dctc<.·tives investigating the shoot­
Pilot dead ing. 
province 100 miles east ofthe capital. Heavy fighting has gone on in this area for the last month betu•een rebels and army troops. 
Woman indicted after confession of 1973 drowning of daughter, 8 
Associated Press Trooper Michael McComiskey. "She told police then that a wave BARNSTABLE, Mass. -A woman took her out," he said. "But she told 
who tried to become a Mormon us that she was afraid her own child deacon said she was asked by church would be abused. elders in an interview, "Did you ever "She was abused as a child herself, kill anybody?" and startled them by and she had such serious emotional confessing she drowned her and psychological problems, she 
daughter 10 years ago, a prosecutor didn't want the same thing happen­said yesterday. 
ing to her daughter," said McComis­Nancy Cross, 41, ofActon, was in­key. dicted Monday on a first-degree He said the mother told 
murder charge in the death of authorities she took the child out to Wendy Lynn Cross, 8, who drowned the d•·serted beach late in the after­Sept. 20, 1973, off Nauset Beach on noon and held her under the water 
Cape Cod, authorities said. 
·mil she stopped moving. 

At the time the drowning was \1.rs. Cross told authorities she ruled accidental. Although police wanted to become a deacon in the noticed a discrepancy of two hours 
Mormon Church, and said she made between the time of the drowning 
her admission during an interview and the time it was reported, the with church elders. They advised case was closed. 
her to tell legal authorities, accord­

"Apparently the girl was very ing to Cape and Islands First Assis­sweet and gentle, and the mother tant District Attorney W. James just carried her out to the beach and O'Neill. held her under the waves," said State District Attorney Philip A. Rollins 
told a news conference yesterday that the elders asked her the direct question: "Did you ever kill anybody?" Rollins said she made the admission at that point. 
It was not immediately clear why church officials granted Mrs. Cross an interview, since women have never been allowed to hold any priesthood offices in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Sainbs. Deacon is the lowest of severo( offices in the priesthood structure.' 
Mrs. Cross came forward to tine district attorney's office with a writ­ten statement two months ago, au­thorities said. 
Rollins said Mrs. Cross will undergo psychiatric evaluation. When asked if it was possible that Mrs. Cross was motivated by guilt over an accident, he replied: "Is it a guilt trip? You'll sec for yourself when you see her in court." 
She is scheduleu for arraignment April 16. 
Laundry Notice: To insure that all charges for special/express 
SENIORS 

laundry, drycleaning and tailoring are able to be billed, all items
in Kansas 
Bid Soles ore being extended...

picked up after April13, 1984 will be strictly on a cash basis. No charges to the students' accounts will be permitted. However, this 
Bids available in LaFortune/Lemons Lobby 

does not apply to the regular student bundle service. Any amount
accident 
Wed-Fri of this week 4:30-6:30 and Sun 6-8 

over the bundle allotment will be billed on the next semester's in­
Associated Press 
Arrangements for seating start today

voice. Seniors are reminded that their accounts must be billed prior 
to graduation, including overuse of bundle service. We will have 
at the some times.
<iARDEN CITY. Kan. -A :~2-year­balances owed, as a result of exceeding the laundry allotment, for 

Today is the last day for tuxfittings.

old Indiana man. whost· body was seniors only, on May 10, '84. Any bundle input by a senior after that 
l(1unu in till' wrtTkagc of a singk­
Get out and buy your bids today! 

date may result in a negative balance which will require us to collect 
engint· airplant· ncar tht· Garden cash upon receipt of the bundle by the senior. 
City Municipal Airport, had been advisnl sevaal times of poor wt·;uha conditions in the area, an airport oHkial ,,aid yesterd••r-I 
JUNIORS 
e 

A DRAMATIC NEW CONCEPl 
Air Traft1c ·"tanager Jack Langston 

1>aid tht· pilot of the Piper Arrow, 
IN SUN TANNING! 

William A. Thompson of Kt·ndal­lvilk. Ind.. was told he was heading 
_) 
Preserve Your Tan 

into snow and h<.·avy fog. The t·xact 
SENIOR TRIP DEADLINE

l'irntmstances oftht· crash were still 
sketchy, hut Langston said weather 
DEPOSITS DUE FRIDAY, APRIL 6 
. 'IM-H~

could have hn·n a factor. The plant· cr;tsht·d in a t1cld one 
sun t9nnrg sob!

mik south of the airport. Langston 
said. The wrtTkagt· was spottt:d 
2n-1026 

Monday hy a passing Air Midwest 
pilot. 
J.M.S. PLAZASign-ups in front of Student Activities Office 

The plane was Ia~! sn·n in Topeka 
--
~. .4609 Grape Roadin LaFortune:

whac it refuckd l'riday night, 
Langston said. 
Mishawaka11:00 am to 1 :00 pm and 6:30 to 7:30 pm

The National Transportation 
Individual dressing rooms and booths
Monday thru Friday

Saft-ty Board and the Federal Avia­
for complete privacy

tion Administration were investigat­
~.:.:.-:•..:..;.,:..;.,: .;;.:·"""-.... '.....>. ··-· ·~' •• ..........L ''.!'' •• ,,,...,.,••, 
1... 
»;a-S .;,·.-"f'.•:•s..\.\.:\.~'\.'--..~~-..'X\\.\\"-:...x~~:--..\\·~·:v.·. ·.·.-;·.·:.·.·.· 

ing the crash. ' ' 

.
' 

TheObse~r Wednesday, Apri14, 1984-page 5 

Launch team prepares for shuttle countdown 
Associated Press der Robert Crippen. "Everything is going well and we believe we will 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -Five get offon time." astronauts who will fly the I I th The countdown begins this morn­space shuttle flight arrived at Cape ing, aiming for a liftoff at 8:'>9 a.m. Canaveral yesterday as the launch EST friday. team prepared for a countdown that Veteran space traveler Crippen will send Challenger on a bold will be making his third shuttle trip. satellite rescue and repair mission. Other crewmen, all rookies, arc 
"The satellite is up there, all ready pilot Dick Scobee and mission for us to go get it," rookie astronaut specialists James van Hoften and George Nelson told reporters after Terry Hart. the crew flew here in three T-38 jets Crippen will guide Challenger in­from their training base at the to an orbit 30'i miles up, highest yet 
Johnson Space Center in Houston. for a shuttle, so he can track down a 
Nelson has the risky assignment of wobbly, slowly spinning science flying free of the orbiting shuttle, satellite named Solar Max, which maneuvering with a jet-powered failed I 0 months after it was backpack to capture the disabled launched in 1980. payload. Challenger is to come home on 
"We're looking foward to another April 12, landing at Cape Canaveral spectacular launch," said comman-after six days in orbit. 

The Observer/Carol Gales
Helping out 
Marine veteran saves 

Seniorjoe Bilik lends a helping band to Nurse Fern teer work at the hospital in conjunction with a class, 
Whitaker changing bedsheets at the Elkhart General "Clinical Internship." Hospital. Bilik and thirteen other students do volun­
boy in burning building 
Associated Press minutes before we could get to him. But then I just grabbed him. There

Mondale again at the fore in race, 
BOSTON -A marine Vietnam was smoke everywhere." veteran with three children of his Raynor climbed to the roof level own says he "didn't have time to 20 feet above the street, grabbed a

but divisions split Democratic party 
think" before climbing up the side of section of gutter with one hand and 

a burning building to rescue a the youth, Mike Tandy, with the Associated Press with a strong blue-collar union vote backers said that if Mondale is the 
screaming 9-year-old boy. other, lowering him to the hands of that always made the state look like a Democratic nominee they either 
others below. NEW YORK -Walter Mondale's Mondale stronghold. will not vote in November or will "I just tried to keep the kid calm," strong victory in New York put him "I wouldn't go so far as to say you support Reagan. said Osmyn Raynor, 39, an apart­"The kid was pretty excited," in front of the topsy-turvy could rule him (Hart) out," said If Hart comes out ofSan Francisco ment manager who had been Raynor said. "He wanted to jump off Democratic presidential race but New York Gov. Mario Cuomo, a as the winner next July, 41 percent walking past the building Monday the roof. I've been scared before, but there were sign of division and dis­Mondale supporter. "It's going to be of the Mondale voters on yesterday when the fire hit. "It was a couple of I didn't have time to think. enchantment that could eventually much more difficult from here on in said they will stay at home or back benefit Ronald Reagan. for Sen. Hart." Reagan. 
tion campaign. All candidates see a Coalition politics works in the "This is just one night...it's still a Some of that bitterness will fade, great need for a revision of the Empire State, and Mondale's appeal marathon," said Mondale in claiming but it signals trouble in an underdog American educational system with a
Debate 

among union members and Jews victory. challenge to Reagan. The obvious 
renewed emphasis on science, math, overwhelmed Gary Hart. The early But why is it a marathon? a big answer for Mondale, if he is the continuedfrom page I 
foreign languages, and computers. returns left it unclear whether the reason is that neither contender has nominee, would be to have Hart as 
High on Jackson's priority list are 

Rev. Jesse Jackson was getting the developed strong, positive support. his running-mate. John Glenn's policy, presented by student loans, grants, and fellow­massive outpouring ofblack support Each benefits from votes cast against If Hart is the nominee it's far­Alan Gates, stresses reducing ships to support those who are he needed. 
his opponent. .u).J.J ·~l' fetched to assume he could con­nuclear arsenals, enforcing the "Willing to try to make it." Jackson Preliminary results of the ABC vince Mondale to try for another
"Large numbers of Hart voters nuclear non-proliferation treaty, and asserts that students are vital to the news poll ofvoters said Mondale got don't like Mondale and vice versa," four years as vice president just for involving all nations in arms control growth of any society and that the support of 58 percent of Jews said Jeff Alderman, polling chief for the sake ofparty unity. talks. Glenn's policy calls for an im­education should be available to and 44 percent of the votes from ABC news. "What you've got there is But once again, Mondale looks mediate freeze of nuclear arms everyone regardless of race, color, union households. That's the way a softness among the Democratic like a winner, a return to the heady production and pressing our allies creed, or economic standing. the Mondale coalition was supposed electorate for either one of these days before the New Hampshire into assuming an equitable share of American
Hart supports an to work but didn't in the early going. guys." primary, when Hart pulled the upset nuclear arms reduction. Defense Education Act that will Now Gary Hart is in trouble as the ABC's exit poll of New York that started Mondale on a slide that Education is turning into one of provide for increased concentration battleground shifts to Pennsylvania voters said 49 percent of the Hart had him on the verge of extinction. the biggest issues in the 1984 elec-in math, science, and foreign lan­
guages and improved teacher train­ing. Also, Hart feels the need for a High Tech Morale Act to establish

I~---------------~\ 
and expand high tech instruction.

1 University Food Services 1 
JOHN MARSHALL 
Mondale believes illiteracy is a 
national problem. His plan calls for

1 Oak Room Cafeteria I 
LAW SCHOOL 
SI I billion in aid to students and in­stitutions and a national policy of

I Needs Student Workers 1 
1393 Peachtree st., N.E., Atlanta GA 30309 
merit-based fellowships.

APPLICATIONS NOW TAKEN 
According to Glenn's platform February, June, September admissions
II II 
."International competition puts a 
premium on long-term investments

Day or Evening Classes 
Various Hours Available 
John Marshall Law School admits without 
in our educational system." Glenn regard to national or ethnic origin. 
has set a goal of universal literacy in

1 To Fit Your Schedule I 
APPROVED FOR VETERANS 
science and math. Askew claims that he was the first

I I 
Southerner to promote desegrega­

Graduation from John Marshail meets the requirements 
tion in public schools. His plan in­

I I 
I 
:for admission to the Bar Examination in Georgia and Indiana 
cludes: increased financial and

Apply Oak Room Cafeteria I 
only. 
vocational support to students; and a

\ South Dining Hall I 
(404) 872·3593 
stronger requirement for reading, writing and arithmetic. 
Hollings' approach to education involves providing greater incentive

~--------------' ,.. 
for people to return to teaching with

1984·1985 
a $'i,OOO increase in base pay for teachers and increased funding for

Notre Dame Science Quarterly 
student loans. Hollings takes a strong stand against tuition tax

is now accepting applications for both paid and un­
credits saying that they "Destroy

paid positions. (We encourage any interested stu­
public schools." Although only two issues were

dent to apply. No experience is necessary.) 
posed to the representatives ofeach 

Address applications to: 
candidate, the debate was deemed a 

· Q t 1 
success by Healy. The debate

N t D S
0 re arne Clence uar er Y 
allowed each candidate to have his 

College of Science 
views aired to the Notre Dame stu-

Notre dame, In 46556 
dents. On Friday, the election will be 

Deadline: April13, 1984 
held to determine the democratic 

For more information call: 
nominee for the Mock Convention. Although some candidates have 

Michael Torchia 239-5757 
dropped out of the national race, .._D!3nise Spring 283-1293 .....il 
students may still vote for any can­

""~".~.IIII___IIJI!!,III!!,IIIll!~·-·""·"'··!l!l!l!l..ili!.lll!llll!l••"'•...•llll!l!llll!l..'lllf!..':.... :·..~Oate. 
~ I ' I~ 

The Observer Wednesday, April4, 1984-page 6 
Report blames HUD for run-down housing 
Associated Press 
W ASIIIN<;TON -Poor main­
tcnann~ programs arc partly n·spon­
siblc~ fi>r tlcplorablt: Jiving 
contlitions in 16 financially troubkd 
public housing authorities, an autlit 
rdcaM:d yesterday concludes. 
Problems uncovc~rnl between 
Dccembn 198.2 and March 1984 in 
somt· cases "wtTe so severe and per· 
vasin· that the overall manage­
mt·nt ... appeared dthc:r incapabk 
or unwilling" of coping with them. 
tht· rt·port said. It was contlucted hy 
tht· inspector gt~neral of the Depart­
mt·nt of !lousing anti llrban 
Ikvdopnll'nl. 
Tht· rt·port accused HUD of "not t•nti>rcing policies, not aggressivdy promoting llt'l'tkd changes anti not obtaining sufficient analytical data on which 10 hast: decisions." 
"The hulk of the .2,800 PIIAs (public housing authorities) opt·ratt· dtkkmly anti dft·ctivdy," IllI() assistant Secrt·tary for PubIic anti Indian !lousing Warren T. Lindquist said on a written statc­mt·nt. 
lnvestigawrs fountl that tht· "lack 
GMwins around in X-car fight 
A.<1soclated Press 
W ASIIINGTON -The brake sys­tem on General Motors Corp.'s 1980 X·cars rcflet·ts innovation and a good design choice by the automakcr's engineers, an attorney for GM contcndt·tl y~stertlay. 
Thomas Gottschalk, representing 
GM, won atlmissions from an expert 
witness for the government that 
several imernal GM tlocuments indi­
cate tht· company's engineers made 
a point of implementing new design 
ft:atures to make tht· cars' brakes 
safe. 
GM is hdng tried in li.S. District Court on government charges that it put the 19HO X-cars on the market even though it knew they contained design deti:cts that could cause the autos to fishtail and swerve during stops, espt·t:ially on wet surfaces. 
Tht· cars in question include the 19HO Chevrokt Citation, Pontiac Phot·nix, Oldsmobile Omega and Buick Skylark. 
The government wants all 1.1 mil­lion 19HO X-cars recalled and repaired and GM fined S4 million. GM maintains the cars were proper­ly designt·d ami that they have an ex­cdknt track record for safety on the roads. 
The expert witness, Robert lld­lmuth, chis:f of tht· defects evalua­tion division in the National Highway Traftk Safety Administra­tion. agrn·d that the documents in­dkatt·d (;M t·ngint-crs Wt'fe working to neatt· a t·ar with features gt·an·d toward ilkal braking. 
The non-juf}· trial hdi>rt· Judgt· Thomasjack:-.on t·ntt·red its 1-Hh day yt·stnday and was expt't'ted to con­tinut· for st·vt·ral wet·ks. 
HPC 
continued from page I 
can get around that by saying 'refrt·shmt•nts will ht· served,' " Sienkkwicz said. 
IIPC Chairman Mike Carlin ex­plained the dday of the University alcohol policy announcement. "I spokt· to Fr. Bt·auchamp. and ht· said that the proposal has been examined by tht· University officers," Carlin said. "They haVt· sent it to the Uni­versity trustees, and we can expt-ct a response from them somt•time around April I j." 
of control over maintenance" at the public housing authority in Newark, N.J., "has caused deterioration to the point ofa .H percent vacancy rate." 
Lintlquist said that the report showed that despite the existence of "unoccupkd. uninhabitable uni­ts ... these units continue to receive the same operational subsidy as if they were in fact providing shelter for needy households." 
Lindquist said the department hopes to reduce a housing author­ity's incentive for keeping units vacant over a long period of time by reducing the subsidy for vacant uni­ts. 
"Poor planning and maintenance wert· responsible for premature deterioration of housing units kading to deplorable living condi­tions and later to high vacancy rates," the report found. 
The audit shows eight of the 16 housing authorities have excessive vacancies and urges local initiatives to t1x up or get rid of units that are falling apart. 
Other problems: 
-Lack of effective collection and eviction poliies. Tenants owe PIIAs substantial amounts of unpaid rent. 
-Poor tenant screening. 
-Insufficient steps to reduce energy costs or pass along increased costs to tenants. 
-Failure to perform energy audits or implement energy con­servation measures. 

THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA & PUB 
"BRUNO'S" 

THIS WEDNESDAY ONLY BRUNO will deliver a 16" pizza 
with 1 topping for only $5.95 Each additimial topping 
$1.00 extra 

Order 1--$1 offtotal price Order 3--$1 offtotal price 4 or more--$3 offtotal price 
Mon-Tl:a.urs  Fri-Sat  277-4519  
4..JOPM  Unti112 am  Open  Sunday  
4-10 pm 
277-4519  


and Sunshine Promotions 


JON .-.NOf'RSON CHRIS SQUIRI! TREVOR A AlliN ALAN WHITE TONY KAYf 
Thursday, April 26 8:00P.M. Notre Dame A.C.c. All Seats Reserved $12.50 

Tickets on sale at the A.C.C. Box Office. Sears (University Park Mall, Elkhart and Michigan City). Robertson's (South Bend, Town and Country and Concord Mall). Elkhart Truth. J.R.'s Music Shop (laPorte). St. Joseph Bank (Main Office). World Record (Goshen). M.u.sic Magic _(Benton Harbor) and Karma Records (Ft. Wayne). 

Senior Laurs McEvoy, from Badin Hall, bows after torium yesterday. Graduate student Liz Weisbrod giving a senior piano recital in the Annen burg Audi-acted as page turner. 

7 
11:30 
teawnnq 
111\1, ..• ~ V\l.tlt",l llthll)f ,, 
"'"' "'""' DI,O
to,.Hl) ~!lit "dN~ITI'1 I'• 
'""M" ceco•s 
Cc("~~~~~~~ 
'l'l'l r ·1<1 11£\TRAl Mo!ol'lr)LJVRI'o 
OIIIGO fOtKGf' 
Kl.ALJ\ NOMI f00\.0, HOLLAND 
'" lOAM 15ft 

An Individually Designed Cut and Style Men's Cut and Style Glossing or Jazzing to add color lilites 
Perms for body or 'Super' Dooper' Curls Includes Cut and Style 
Hot Oil Manicure Corium Facial 

We're "Puffin' On The Ritz" For Formals, Proms, and Graduation! Shear Dimensiqns where 'Fashion Fits' Your 'Special' Needs for Your Big Occasion! 
Ritz Reg. Special 
19 14 
13 
8 
15 10 

35 22.50 and up and up 
6 4.50 
15 Receive a tree Complexion Bar $7Value 
Treat yourself to the best! 
Book your appointment now·_ 234-6767 (Mention Ad and your occasion) We're 'Puttin On The Ritz' thru May 31.•. 1984 


~i~~~_()__l_._ll__t__________________ ___pa_~_7
w_e_dn_e_sda-y,_Ap-ri-14-,1-98_4 



Realizing a more equitable tax system 
It is certain, given the size ofthe deficit, that sooner or later taxes will be raised. What has not been decided, though, is what sort oftaxes these will be -income or somethingelse. But one thing is clear: I will not be able to avoid paying them. There will be no height require­ment for this tax. 
But there should be. For too long this country has been taxing people on their 
Richard Cohen 
The Cohen column 
ability to pay, rather than on who they are. Take, for instance, tall people. They have ad· vantages money can't buy. Tall men get all the girls, sec better at the movies, block the view of people behind them, are better suited for most ~ports and command respect from peoplq who, like the Pentagon, confuse size with authority. 
Slim people should also be taxed. I am not referring here to people who starve and sweat to stay slim. I am talking about those people who do nothing, eat anything they want, and don't gain a pound. No tax could be too exor­bitant for them. In fact, there should be a sur­charge for every time they look up from something like a banana split and say, "I don't know why it is. I just can't gain weight." Tax 'em! 
Similarly, people with really manageable hair should be taxed. These are people who can come out of a swimming pool, say "down!" to their hair and make it assume what they call in the Army "the proper position." ln some cases, these are the same people who can have their hair cut without it looking like they just had their hair cut. Asteep tax for that. 
A truly fair government would levy a tax on 
people who have no trouble tanning. I am 
referring to those ofyou who simply go to the 
beach, run out into the sun, run right back into 
the shade -and get a tan. 
I can not tell you how much these people deserve to be taxed. The tan tax should be steep -and it should decline for each day you stay in the sun and do not get a tan. A good case of sun poisoning would earn you a tax rebate, but you would have to pay through the teeth for a tan you sport in the winter. 
I would also levy a tax on people who do 
not have bad backs, who have children who 
do their homework without being asked, who 
can sleep through the night, who can drink all 
they want without getting drunk, who stay in 
shape without exercising, who can eat any­
thing without getting heartburn, who dance 
effortlessly, who go grey around the temples 
but nowhere else and who think there is t no­
thing stupid about wearing lime-green pants 
with little whales on them. 
I would also tax men with either two last 
names or two first names -McGeorge 
Bundy, Clifton Daniel. To save paperwork, I 
might just tax all Episcopalians. 
For women, blonde hair should be taxed. Natural blondes, ofwhom there are precisely six in the country, would pay a minimum tax. A heavier tax, though, would be levied on dyed blondes. You want to be blonde? You want to have more fun? You ought to pay for it. 
I would not tax all natural advantages. For instance, youth would not be taxed since it is squandered on the young who do not know what they have anyway. I might tax adults who did not have acne or braces as a kid, since this is an advantage they carry all through life. You could call it the happy childhood tax. If 
you know what I mean, you wouldn't have to pay. 
Men with truly mellifluous voicesshould be taxed. These men have a distinct advantage over the rest of us since everyone li">tens to what they have to say even though they usual· ly have nothing to say. l would levy a tax also on men who can wear suspenders without them slipping off their shoulders when they sit down. 
l would tax people with truly perfect skin, people who are considered wise merely be­cause they have no sense of humor and, of course, people who have no sense ofhumor. 
My scheme is still in rough form and I am not sure if I would allow tax credits for per· sonal characteristics that erode with age ­like the balding depreciation allowance. I do know, though, that taxing what you are would have three wonderful benefits. It would eliminate the national debt, be truly equitable and -most important of all -it would not cost me a cent. 
Richard Cohen is a nationally syndicated columnist for the Washington Post Writers Group. 

P. 0. BoxQ 
Either all students should be offered the whole class, not four members ofit. woman is an especially sensitive one at our
The football beef 

choice of deciding how to conduct them­LarryHau two Catholic schools. Our attitudes are very selves and fulfill their religious obligations, or Stanford Hall important and do influence others. Ifwe con­DearEditor: none should. I suggest the former; after all, tinue to attach a stigma to pregnant women, is 

Several weeks ago, an editorial appeared in we're all big boys and girls now! it any wonder that the abortion clinic profits? The Obseroer; although I have since forgotten Andre Hutchinson 
Expectant_mothers
the title and the author, its subject is fresh in Sophomore It is time that we not only realize this situa­my memory. Please allow me to briefly tion, but also that we see what a courageous describe its content, in order to jog the DearEditor: act it is for a woman to carry a pregnancy to memory ofthe other readers. Although I agree with the sentiment of the term. The obstacles of doing so are great in The editorial in question concerned the March 27th"Come to Paradise, come to Notre today's society, and they are further com­

The senior's fellow 
Lenten practices ofour University, and the im­Dame" article, I think its analysis of campus pounded in an environment like that ofNotre positions that are forced upon the students, DearEditor: life was somewhat naive and insensitive. The Dame. thus removing any possibility of our making Four members of the senior class have author stated: "There are many things lacking A pregnant Notre Dame or Saint Mary's decisions for ourselves concerning our taken a lot upon themselves in deciding that at Notre Dame. Among them are: heavy drug woman is not dismissed from school or her religious obligations. the rest ofus should not be allowed to vote for use, longhair, expectant mothers, and campus dormitory, rather, she is supported. It is my 
The author's argument centered around the Harold B. Augustine for Senior Fellow. riots." deep hope that fellow students and the faculty fact that the dining halls simply do not serve According to Mike James, "He fails to meet The statement of "expectant mothers" is would likewise receive a pregnant woman meat at all on Fridays, which is a fine example the criteria established by the committee." particularly disturbing because we do have with compassion, respect, and understanding. of the point mentioned above: the University Apparently he feels that Mr. Augustine has not pregnant women on campus, and -fur­Otherwise, we are all guilty ofcontributing to is making those decisions concerning "directly affected the lives of the senior class thermore, it fosters the common attitude that abortion and casting stones when the woman religious obligations for us. members and provided them with inspiration there is something shameful in recognizing needs the most support. 
What satisfaction is there for a Catholic stu­to reach for higher ideals." The director of this. john May dent in observing a religious obligation when food services does, however, meet this re­The situation of an unwed, pregnant Senior he or she has no choice in the matter? What quirement. about those students at Notre Dame who Mike revealed his real reason for removing aren't Catholic? Aren't we old enough to Mr. Augustine from the ballot when he said, decide for ourselves when the point in ques­"We were concerned that the vote was some­tion concerns such matters? what of a farce or that it had been taken too 
Giving the University the benefit of the lightly. To keep this a serious matter we had to doubt, I'll offer as a possible answer "maybe define more clearly why some seniors wanted not;" maybe we're not old enough to decide him on the ballot." for ourselves (although we are supposedly The Senior Fellow Committee made two young adults being prepared for the "real false assumptions. The first is that they know world") and, if that is the case, should be what the students' reasons were for voting for thankful that someone is protecting us and Harold B. Augustine. By their own standards, looking out for our best interests. he should be on the ballot ifonly two students 
In light ofthese considerations, I would like had "legitimate" reasons for supporting Mr. to sharr with the rest ofthe student body a bit Augustine. of information which I found to be quite The second is that the committee has a right ludicrous and hypocritical. Last Friday, March to determine whether a student's reasons for 30th, the football team was offered meat, supporting a candidate are legitimate. No along with fish, at their training table for din­voter should have to explain his reasons for ncr. his vote. 
Why is the football team granted this It is apparent to me that Mr. Augustine is a preferential treatment? Are they any different good Christian. I think the committee would or any better than the rest of the student agree with this. Therefore he should be on the body? I think not. My disapproval is not with ballot. Ifthe seniors don't choose a Senior Fel­the football team in any way, but, rather, with low for the "right reasons," that's too bad. the inconsistency in University policy. Senior Fellow still should be chosen by the 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller ................ Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor. ....... Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the admir.istration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor ............ Dan McCullough Systems Manager . ._. ...... Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned EMfto~ilci(S\k!pfe'Sant the opinion Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrsk( of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966
community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor .............. Mary Healy is encouraged. Photo Editor. ............... Pete Laches 
The Observer Wednesday, April4, 1984-page 8 

The Observer/Carol Gales 
Seventy-four college players and players-to-be were invited by the AmateurBasketballAssociation ofthe USA to the OlympicBas­ketball Team tryouts yesterday, but Notre Dame swingman Tom Sluby was notamong them. Digger Phelps saysSluby is concentrat­ing on his studiesfor the remainder oftheyear. Story on page 12. 
More than $19.5 million 
Goodyear ordered to pay damages 
Associated Press 

PROVIDENCE, R.I. -A Superior Court judge ruled yesterday that the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. must pay more than S 19.5 million In damages to the family of race car driver Mark Donohue because a defective tire the company made contributed to Donohue's death. 
Both Goodyear and the Penske Corp., the owner of the Formula One racer Donohue was driving when he crashed at the 1975 Austrian Grand Prix, were found by 
a six-member jury to have been negligent in the crash. The jury granted an award of S9.6 million against the two companies. 
But Judge Anthony A. Giannini overruled the verdict with respect to Penske, saying there was no evidence given during the trial that Penske could have been responsible for the defect in the race car's left front tire that blew out as Donohue was driving practice laps. 
As a result, Goodyear must pay the full amount of the damages in the wrongful death suit, which the court estimated at S 19. '; million with in­tcr<.·st. 
Donohue, 3H, died of brain in­juries two days after his vehicle went out of control and ran off the race track, crashing through several fences and billboards. 
llis widow, Carmen E. Donohue Rafshoon, and his two sons by a pre-
LIBRARY 

·---·-,___. --------1 
ASSISTANCE 
·--~--­
Tht'r!''s free tax help at most local 
libraries Including audio tapes to 
take y<lu step-by-step through 
completion ofyour tax return, a 
reference set of the IRS free publi­
ca! !on series, and reproducible tax 
forms. 
Former Royals 

Arbitrator rules for reinstatement 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A baseball ar­bitrator has ruled that suspended players Willie Wilson and .Jerry Mar­tin should be reinstated on May 1S, the commissioner's otftce an­nounced yesterday. 
The ruling came after Wilson, of the Kansas City Royals. and Martin, a former Royal who had been working out with the New York Mets, filed a grievance of one-yt·ar drug suspen­sions levied by Commissioner Bowie Kuhn last Dec. 15. 
At that time, Kuhn sad he would review the 'players' cases on May 1 5 with possible reinstatement coming no sooner than that date. Kuhn made no guarantees the players could resume playing at that time. 
Impartial arbitrator Richard I. Bloch made his decision after three days of closed-door hearings last month in Tampa, Fla. 
"While my decision of last year made provision for review of the suspensions on May 1 5, I very much regret that Mr. Bloch did not find it appropriate to leave it up to me to decide the nature of my May 15 review and the date of their reinstatement," Kuhn said in a state­ment. 
The commissioner's office said 

vious marriage all(.ged that a defective tire caused the accident and that both Goodyear and Penske were negligent. 
Goodyear maintained there was no manufacturing defect and that the tire failed when it hit a piece of metallic "debris" on the track. The company also claimed Donohue should have known the risks in­volved in Formula One racing and that he occasionally showed erratic driving behavior. 
Penske claimed it had no respon­sibility in the case because it could not know ofany defect in the tire on its racer. 
The jury o( ~q.ur 111e,n ~n~"' two women was in its second day of deliberations in the case when it rendered its verdict yesterday. Tes­timony in the case, tried in Rhode Island because the attorney for the 

Software Included: Wordstar Word Processor 
Donohue estate lives in Lincoln, 
took nearly seven weeks to com­
plete. 
During the case, several of the racing profession's top drivers were called to testify. Both sides presented an array of witnesses that gave conflicting testimony on the condition of the tire and the race track. 
After the verdict, David W. Car­roll, a lawyer for Goodyear, said the company would appeal to the state Supreme Court. 
Leonard Decof, the attorney for the Donohue family, said he thought the jury "responded very diligently to the.case." 
Decof, however, said he did not believe the jury's award, the largest in Rhode Island history, would have any effect on future corporate spon­sorship ofprofessional racing. 
9" Green Screen Easy to use Keyboard with numeric keypad 

Wordplus Spelling Proofreader Parallel and Profitplan Spreadsheet Serial Interface Perfect Writer Word Processor Perfect Speller ABSOLUTELY Perfect Calc Spreadsheet 
UNBEATABLE 

Perfect Filer Database Microsoft Basic 
the arbitrator had made no dedsion terim rl·quirc: the continuance of the on the grievance of another former suspension." Royal, Willie Aikens, who also was All three players wen: convicted suspended for a year subject to the last November in federal court in 
same provision. Aikens was traded Kansas City, Kan., of attemptnl pos­to Toronto. session of t·ocaine. They wen· tined and ordert·d to spend three months 
Bloch, who handles grievances as in federal prison. Another timner part of baseball's collective bargain­Royal. pitcher Vida Blue. latcr ing agreement with the union, said pleaded guilty to charges of posses­the reinstatement would stand sion. but, at the request of the "unless he (Kuhn ) finds that aspects prosccutor, Kuhn's otftce ddayed oftheir individual behavior in the in-action in that case. 
Baltimore city council attempts to stop Colts 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -The scene of the legal battle between Colts' owner Robert Irsay and the National Foot­ball team's Baltimore fans remains undecided. 

Joshua R. Treem, a local attorney for the Baltimore Football Club Inc., fLied a petition Monday to have the case heard in federal court instead of Baltimore Circuit Court since it in­volves parties from different states. Treem also asserted that the amount 
"in controversy" exceeds S 10,000. 
The legal fight stems from the recent move by the Colts to In­dianapolis. The Colts loaded their belongings into moving vans last week and headed for Indianapolis. 

But Baltimore City Council then passed a bill to impose an order of eminent domain to stop the move. The bill would block the move ofthe Colts to Indianapolis by condemn­ing the team. Baltimore could then buy the Colts from Irsay. 
Eminent domain is a legal concept commonly used in land dealings involving public property. 

The city of Oakland is currently under the same type of litigation to get their once-Oakland Raiders from Los Angeles. 
Irsay along with the Indianapolis Mayor William Hudnut was greeted by a cheerful crowd Monday at the 61,300-seat Hoosier Dome. Irsay told the crowd of 15,000 he might have kept the team in Baltimore if Maryland Gov. Harry Hughes had not pushed an eminent domain bill through the state legislature. 
Irsay said he made up his mind to move the Colts when "I woke up one day and saw the governor had put a bill (eminent domain) through the legislature which I think is against anything in the United States, that people have freedom." 
Irsay was shielded from reporters by the police and state aides as he made his speech. A Hudnut aide told the Baltimore Sun threats against Ir­say's life had been made in both Bal­timore and Chicago, where his main offices are located. 
Win a trip to sunny San Diego! Announcing ... A Suitcase Party Thurs. April 5th at Lee's 

~.....,._.
_··._cl\~ 
Party runs 5-7 I DrinKs Provided I Tickets $5 Buy your tickets tonight at Senior Bar Trip for 2/eaves Fri. Apri/6 I Returns Sun. Apri/8 

"In my job at the first National Bank of Chicago. Iam constantly using the knowledge acquired through my paralegal training at Roosevelt." 
-Am) Brill Estates. WWs and li'Usts Gl'3dilalt' 
LAWYER'S ASSISTANT: 
AGROWTH CAREER 
FOR THE SO's 
Training as a I.awyer's Assistant can give today's college 
graduate a valuable edge in the job market. Entry-level positions in the Chicago area pay a~ much as Sll,OOO to II ';,000-and some paralegals arc now earning as much as 13.2.000. 
It takes just three months ofdaytime st~ (six months in the evening) to prepare for a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. The program at Roosevelt University is the lar~est A.B.A.-approved program in lllinois. and its record ofgraduate t·mploymcnt assistance is the best there is. 
FOR INFORMATION AND A FREE BROCHURE CALL (312) 341-3882 
mlMAIL IHIS COUPON.TODAY1 
A&CAUITI!A WILL BE ON CAMPUS, APRIL 18, 1884
-·------------------------­
~-

ROOSEVElT UNIVERSITY ~ l.awyer's Assistant Program 12 • 430 S. Michigan Ave.. Chicago. Ill. 6060'; • 
In cooperation wilh ·lbt:" Natumotl <.enler for P01.ralt.-tcaJ Trainm~ 
Please send me acopy of the Roosevelt Lawyer's Assistant Progr.1m catalog Iam interested in the 0 Chicago or 0 Arlington Heights location. 


ttomcPhune Hu~ml·~ Phum.· 
Approved for V.A. and Ill. State <iuaranteed Loans 
Roosc:velr University admits all studt"nt. on thl.' ha.,;, of indi,·idual merit and without regard 111 ra~·l.'. <:olor. se:x or age: 
The Observer Wednesday, April 4, 1984 -page 9 
Chicago Cubs defeat Giants to open season 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -]ody Davis drove in two runs with a double and Keith Moreland and Ron Cey each hit solo homers to lead the Chicago Cubs to a 5-3 victory yesterday over the San Francisco Giants. 
Dick Ruthven. 13-12 last season, earned the victory by scattering nine hits for two runs and striking out six in 7 1-3 innings. Lee Smith went the rest of the way, allowing one run, for his first save. 
The Giants took a 1-0 lead in the first inning, but the Cubs tied it in the fourth as Larry Bowa's second double scored Leon Durham, who had walked. 
Moreland hit his homer leading off the sixth but the Giants tied it in the bottom of the inning. Davis' double in the seventh scored Gary Matthews. who walked, and Moreland, who singled. 
The Cubs' got their final run in the ninth on Q:ey's home run. 
Mark !~avis started and took the loss, going seven innings and giving up II hits and four walks. 
Cardinals 11, Dodgers 7 
LOS ANGELES -Darrell Porter homered, tripled and singled as the St. Louis Cardinals pounded Fer­nando Valenzuela and the Los An­geles Dodgers I 1-7 in their season opener. 
Porter lashed a solo homer in the second inning and tripled in another run during a five-run Cardinal out­burst in the fourth that gave them the lead for keeps. 
Valenzuela was tagged for six runs on eight hits and two walks in the three-plus innings he worked. Dan­ny Cox, who replaced St. Louis start­er Dave LaPoint with two runners on base and none out in the third, pitched four scoreless innings to get the victory. 
Los Angeles jumped to a 3-0 lead 
in the first inning on Mike Marshall's 
two-run double and a run-scoring 
single by Candy Maldonado. 
Porter's homer and a run-scoring 
single by Gorege Hendrick trimmed the det1cit to 3-2. St. Louis then moved ahead with its five-run fourth. 

Phillies 5, Braves 0 
ATLANTA Steve Carlton allowed two hits over seven innings for his 301 st career victory and Mike Schmidt belted a home run as the Philadelphia Phillies blanked the At­lanta Braves 5-0 in their season opening game last night. 
Carlton walked one and fanned 
six, lifting his all-time leading 
strikeout total to 3,71 5. Bill 
Campbell took over to start the 
eighth and went the final two in­
nings, yielding two hits. 
Schmidt gave the defending Na­tional League champions a 1-0 lead in the first inning when he smacked a 1-0 pitch from Len Barker over the center field fence. 
Ivan Dejesus started a two-run ftfth for the Phillies with a single up the middle. After Carlton sacrificed, Juan Samuel was hit by a pitch. Len Matuszek singled in Dejesus and Samuel also scored on the play when right fielder Claudell Washington threw wildly to the plate for an er­
ror. 

The Phillies added another run in 
the sixth when Von Hayes singled to 
right and scored when Bo Diaz 
doubled to center. A sacrifice fly by 
Garry Maddox drove in Schmidt, 
who had walked, in the eighth. 

Padres 5, Pirates 1 
SAN DIEGO -Eric Show and 
Rich Gossage teamed on a three­
hitter and Kevin McReynolds and 
Carmela Martinez homered last 
night as the San Diego Padres 
downed the Pittsburgh Pirates 5-1 in 
the National League baseball opener 
for both teams. 
Show, San Diego's winningest 
pitcher last season, had trouble only 
with the Pirates' Marvell Wynne, 
who had two doubles and a triple for 
the Pirates' only hits. Show struck out four and issued a single walk in his seven innings. 
Gossage, the Padres' SIO million free agent, went the final two in­nings. 
After Pittsburgh took a 1-0 lead in the top ofthe first on Wynne's triple and johnny Ray's groundout, San Diego scored all the runs it needed in the bottom halfofthe inning. 
Alan Wiggins and Tony Gwynn opened the inning with consecutive doubles and Gwynn later scored on Terry Kennedy's grounder. 
McReynolds made it 3-0 in the second with a home run off Pitts­burgh starter and loser Rick Rhoden. 
Kennedy singled with two outs in the sixth and Martinez followed with a homer offRhoden. 

Carlton Fisk ofthe Chicago White Sox dives safely a-late with the tag. Chicago emerged the victor at Balti­cross home plate in the Monday season openerfor the more, 5-2. Yesterday's National League summaries a­
· k D . b 

season opener. Cincinnati won at home, 8-1. Yester­day's Ndtional League summaries at left. 


Expos 4, Astros 2 
HOUSTON -Andre Dawson's RBI triple snapped an eighth-inning tie and pinch hitter Miguel Dilone added a two-run single, lifting Pete Rose and the Montreal Expos over the Houston Astros 4-2 in their season openers last night. 
Rose, who was released by the Philadelphia Phillies after last season and signed with the Expos, went 2­for-5 in his Montreal debut. 
His two hits gave him a career to­tal of 3,992, 199 behind Ty Cobb's all-time record of 4, 191. 
Houston starter Joe Niekro took the loss for the Astros. Charlie Lea got the win. 
Pre Law Society Juniors Night 
Lecture on Pre Law Curriculum 
Dean Waddick Professor Donald Kommers Wed. 7PM in Library Auditorium 
LECTURE SERIES What Is Art? 
Thursday night slide lectures designed to in­troduce viewers to basic ideas and tech­niques in art and architecture. 
"Photography" April 5th, 7:30pm 
RICHARD GRAY Assistant Professor, Department of Art, Art History and Design 

"Architecture" April 26th, 7:30pm 
NORMAN CROWE Assistant Professor, Department of Architecture 
$2 Admission $1 Students and Friends 
THE ANNEN BURG AUDITORIUM THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
, ,SRQIJJ~QrJ;,d.l:tt tl},e_. f_lj_pfJ_!i_§J)} the Snjte
... ,_
h R

t~~~&~~~~~ffK e~u ~ N~~~~~~~MI~MWHW~jliii~M!I!!~!!II!~~~
...........~·..-....... ~ w ......... • • .......,. ............ ~ .. .~-................ .,.,,._... Ji),~~~ .. .t .. •.·-·-•..•..·~•... •...... •.. •.. ~~~~ ........~~\.1.:~'!..'\.~"-' tj#.I:.JI3.611.. ~·\..\~ 
.•. 

I I It 0 t I I I I I Iff I I I I. f f f f f If If I Itt I I I I It I I I I I Itt. I It Itt I I I I I 1 
Wednesday~ April4, 1984-page 10




Sports Briefs 
The Law" School intranlural basketball cham­
pionship will be hdd tonight, Apri14, at 7 p.m. in Gym 4 ofthe ACC. 
-Th<• Obsen•er 
The ND / SMC Sailing Clubwill have a meeting tonight at 6:30 in Room 204 O'Shaughnessy to discuss upcoming social events and rc:gattas. -The Obseroer 
The Crew Team will be holding a meeting tomorrow, April <;, at 8:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. Betting shirts will be distributed and money collected for the Indianapolis trip ­cash only. On Sunday, elections will be held at 8:30, also in the Little Theater. -The Obsen1er 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be 
meeting tonight at 7:30 in Room 20 of Hayes-Healy. Election of officers will take place, and all are welcome to attend. -The Ob­sen,er 
Stepan Centeris closed for the remainder ofthe semes­tcr for rccreational purposl"S. The building is reservcd for thc Mock Convention, Collegiate Jazz Fcstival, advance registration, and An­Tostal through the end ofApril. -The Obseroer 
The NVA Tennis Tournament is on Sunday, April8. Therefore:, the Courtney tennis courts will be unavailable for most of the day. -The Observer 
TheNVAstretcherciseclass is having a guest night for new members tomorrow, April S, at the 5: I 5 p.m. class. Classes ar~ hc:ld in Gym 4 (above Gat~ 3) at th~ ACC. All faculty and staffare mvit~d to attend. For n.orc: details. call 239-6690. -The Obsen'er 

Classifieds 
Cheerleading tryouts will be held beginning tomorrow, Thursday, AprilS, from 6-10 p.m. The second clinic will be held on Friday, April 6, at 6 p.m. Cheerleading t1nals then will be conducted on Saturday, April 7, from 6-10 p.m. All sessions will he held in the ACC Pit and tryouts will be open to the public Thursday and Saturday. -The Obseroer 
Keep training for the Irish Spring Run, a six-mile race around campus, the lakes, and the golfcourse. It's coming up Satur­day, April 14 at I 0 a.m. Deadline for entries is this Friday. Registra­tion must be made in person at the NVA office, and a $3 fee will be charged. Trophies and t-shirts will be awarded.-The Obseroer 
An interhall tennis tournament will be 
sponsored by NVA on Sunday, April 8. Students interested in this ail-day event should contact their hall athletic commissioner for in­formation about their hall's team. Rosters must he submitted by 5 
p.m. today. -The Obsen,er 

The squash ClUb will host a tournament April 6-8 for players at all levels. It is open to all students, faculty and staff. Sign­ups will continue through Thursday at the ACC courts. For more information, call Sean at 277-1405. -The Obsen1er 
The ND Track team has a meet this Saturday. Anyone interested in helping with this event, please call Susan (x6738) or Jennie ( x686S) by tonight. -The Obseroer 
Women's Bookstore has 14 stots yet to m1 cor this year's tournament. Teams may signup on a ftrst-come, ftrst-served basis by calling Patty at 1313 or Kathleen at 1618. -The Obsen1er 
Trials 
continued from page 12 
tana; Keith Lee, Memphis Statl". 
Karl Malone. Louisiana Tech.; 
Danny Manning, Lawrence High 
School, Lawrence, Kansas; Maurice 
Martin, St. Joseph's, Pa.; Jim Master. 
Kentucky; Chris Mullin, St. John's, 
N.Y.; Jay Murphy, Boston College; 
Sam Perkins, North Carolina; Chuck 
Person, Auburn. 
Ed Pinckney, Villanova; Terry Por­
ter, Wisconsin-Stevens Point; Mark 
Price, Georgia Tech.; Fred Reynolds, 
Texas-El Paso; Alvin Robertson, 
Arkansas; Aubrey Sherrod, Wichita 
State; Charlie Sitton, Oregon State; 
Gene Smith, Georgetown. 
Kenny Smith, North Carolina; 
Terence Stansbury, Temple; John 
Stockton. Gonzaga University; Greg 
Stokes, Iowa; Roy Tarpley, Michigan; 
Anthony Teachey, Wake Forest; 
Wayman Tisdale, Oklahoma; Jeff 
Turner, Vanderbilt. 
Melvin Turpin, Kentucky; Nick 
Vanos, University ofSanta Clara; Milt 
Wagner, Louisville; Kenny Walker, 
Kentucky; Dwayne Washington, 
Syracuse; Willie White, Tennessee­
Chattanooga;John Williams, Tulane; 
Efrem Winters, Illinois; Leon Wood, 
California State-Fullerton; Michael 
Young, Houston. 
Portions ofthis article were writ­ten by Marc Ramirez, Observer sports writer. 
!~***************•
Buy : 
.. lt 
: Observer : 
.. * 
.. * 
: classifieds : 
.. "'­
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4J?.m .. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person·or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­ters r da . 
NOTICES 
EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL MAS COKER 233-7009 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME 
CALL MAS COKER 233-7009. 
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082 
WORDPROCESSING -FAST AC· CURATE WORK. 272-8a27. 
WE HAVE THE LOWEST AIRFARES TO EUROPEI FOR FREE COLOR BROCHURE, WRITE TO: CAMPUS TRAVEL, BOX 11387, ST. LOUIS, MO 63105. 
GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUBIIII!II 
NEED CASH? Earn $500& each ochool year, 2-4 (llexlble) houra per week placing and ftlllng pootera on campus. Serloua workera only; we give recom­mendations. Call now for summer & next loll. 1-800-243-ea79. 
ALABAMA TIXIII Front row. but can't go Call Mark 6871 
WILLIAM MONDALE WILL ADDRESS THE DELEGATION AT THE MOCK CONVENTION THIS WEDNESDAY AT 7:15PM IN STEPAN CENTER. PRIOR TO HIS ADDRESS, A RECEPTION WILL BE GIVEN IN HIS HONOR IN THE LIBRARY LOUNGE FROM 6:00TO 7:00 PM. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST:ND MEN'S RING LOST ON 3115. YELLOW GOLD. BLUE STONE WITH NO ENGRAVED ON TOP MY NAME IS ENGRAVED ON THE INSIDE. THERE IS A REWARD FOR ITS RETURN. CALL JEFF AT 8854. THANKS 
LOST:A red wool sweater in O'Shag sometime before break II found please call7101. 
LOST A BLUE DOWN JACKET DURING LAST FRIDAY'S WALSH HALL PARTY BRAND NAME IS ASCENTE. CON· TAINS PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN THE POCKET IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 283-3115 or RETURN TO 115 HO­LY CROSS HALL REWARD AND NO QJESTIONS ASKED! 
FOUND: GOLD CROSS PEN WITH WORDS: ·ComVac" ON SIDE CALL 1866 TO CLAIM. . '· '· KODAK POCKET CAMERA WITH THE INITIALS TCJ AT HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY IN 704 P.E. IF YOU ACCIDENTLY TOOK IT. PLEASE CALL TERRI AT 428 t. IF IT WASfli.'JJ.I\KEN BY MISTAKE, PkEASE 1 JUST SEND THE FILM THAT WAS IN IT TO 704 P.E. THANKS 

FOUND: GIRL'S KEV CHAIN WITH LARGE GOLD HEART. FOUND IN STEPAN CENTER SUNDAY NIGHT. CALLx1765. 
LOST: A lnend !rom Walsh. Hey, banana. please lind your way back. 
LOST: Green SWING WEST Winter tack­et REWARD!!! Please call 3401 so my mom won't kill mel 
lost .. key chain-a plastic one wh1ch sa1d ch1cago" on rt. there were a couple keys on 11.. dave 3040 
LOST LEVI'S BLUE DENIM JEAN JACKET at Walsh·s Hall Party last Fnday · Gumby & Poky & Pohce buttons on pocket. II found please call 283· 7965 or RETURN to 400 Lyons or Lost & Found. Reward & no questions asked. 
WANTED 

Come to Booton lor the summer. Couples are seeking mature persons to help with chlldcare and household reaponslbllltlea In exchange lor room, board and $125 net weekly salary. Please call Kite Goldfield 11 617-862­7982 or write: 283 Marren Road, Lexi­ngton, MA 02173. 
NEED RIDE TO IU FROM 416 TO 
418.CALL PAT AT 7374 
N-ride to COMISKY PARK lor White Sox Opening Game. ll'a thla Friday, April 6, Plea• Call Paulot 2n-4851 or 11239-5313. Can leave anytime! 
PHILADELPHIA Need RIDER Leaving 
Thurs. Noon Blll3167 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE: GREEN OVERCOAT. 
LARGE, IN VERY GOOD CONDITION MARINE SURPLUS. BEST OFFER­CALL PATTY AT 8654 
ELECTRIC GUITAR -MINT CONDITION -CALL AFTER 5 233-9093 
TAPES-TDKs & MAXELL's LOW · P~CES·· CAL-L MEAK92'77-S306 • • 
PERSONALS 
,,,,,,,,,,,\.,,,,...••.u_,,,.J.r.... 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
GIALS:TIAED OF THE NO SOCIAL LIFE? CALL OUR SERVICE AT 3727. 
THE SUNSHINE BOYS ARE COMING II 
RICHARD J. BARNET 
ATTENTION: WE WANT TO BUY A BOOKSTORE TEAM POSITION WILL PAY EITHER $25 OR ~ CASES OF BEER. CONTACT CHAI'> AT 8555 OR JOHN AT 3651. WF MEAN BUSI­NESSIIII 
THE WALTZ BALL IS BACK!! Try out your social dance skills !rom Freshman Year! Come waltz w1th Strauss and swing w1th Benny Goodman! Chautauqua. Friday night. 8:30. 
Fat Bottom Girls" We are the Cham­pions"... Am. 522 at the Plaza! THANKS lor the Sun Times .. ! Guess who? 
THE CIRCUS IS HERE! COME ONE. COM!" ALL · THE YOUNG AND YOUNG AT HEART! 12 NOON OLD FIELDHOUSE MALL 
II you have a personal computer and a modem, you should try our computer bul­letin board serv1ce. Several hundred users from all over Mich1ana and beyond to talk to and help solve your problems. For more information call Kangaroo Kon­cepts, Inc. at 277-5306 Free demonstrations available 
MACRI'S DEAD!! THE DELl'S MEAT WILL BE BEAT! 
TO little JIM , THE GIRLS IN AUGUSTA TELL ME YOUR ANKLE ISNT THE ONLY LIMP PART OF YOU. GROW UP. 
PSYCHOLOGY MAJORS and perspective maJors: come to the psych workshop Wed. 7:00. Lillie Theatre. La Fortune, lor career, grad school. and un­dergrad course info. I 
JUST WHEN VOOU THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE TO WALK ACROSS THE QUAD­KIRK'S BIG BUTT RHURNSI CATCH IT AT A STANFORD HALL NEAR YOU I 
FOURTH MALE ROOMMATE NEEDED OR CAMPUS VIEW APT. IF IN­TERESTED PLEASE CONTACT BRIAN AT 1238. 
FLORIDA SLAM YO SLAM ...DAIVING IN PARKING LOTS CAN BE SUBJECT TO ABUSE 
La Fille Mal Gardea La Fille Mal Gardea 
Hey FOXY LADIES let Joe MacKrell show you what High angle of attack real­ly means. 
Coming Soon! MY FAVORITE PLANTS by Rob Ernst ...a well known botanist and nature lover 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -Roseland 
Police are looking lor a white male who 
allegedly made off with a hamburger, fries 
and a Coke without paying lor them. A 
police spokesman said that the value of 
the meal was appoximately $2.57. with 
tax·· 

He described the dine-and-dasher.. as 
a male, 6T, with red hair and a very big 
bull. The incident occurred before Spring 
Break. Witnesses also say the th1el had a 
hillbilly accent and when last seen was 
heading lor the North Quad area ol Notre 
Dame. 

Persons with information are en­
couraged to report to the Roseland 
Police. 283-8765. Ask lor Cpl. Kirk. 
Happy 3-Pay to you 
Happy 3-Pay to you 
Happy 3-Pay Blast1e 
Happy 3-Pay to you. 
Bill. Little did you know you can buy BOG ANYWHERE! 
HEY SANDY! Can you believe I almmostlorget your birthday?I Hope you had an awesome dayl Bye ... 
JUNIORS 
Senior trip deposits due by Apnl 6th 
SMC students please drop off deposits at 
Student Activities in the HCC. 
SMC FRESHMAN Spnng Dance April 14 SY (Future) Y Tickets on sale in Saga Wed-Fri 4:30-6:00 
Scavenger Hunt lor NDISMC Thursday April12 9:00-12:00 Tickets on sale Wed­Fri. in Saga 4:30-6:00. Regina Lobby 9­1Opm Cash prizes. 
J.S. Where·s the dance? Let's lind it .. Apnl131 Love, K.T. 
Thanx St. Jude! A.S. 
Interested in Public Relations? SMC stu· dent governmen1 will be starting a NEW pubhc relation commisSIOn next year. For 
• mQre infQ. cllll K~ce~ 4437. 
OTAYI SAAACAKES. Cherry, Geek. and Buck· wheat you·ve come a long way babes! I'm psyched! Bigger than llle..J.C's Herman Munster laugh. messages on the chalkboard, dirty dishes and laundry. Sara·s bed-a.k.a, Sara's closet,Cyndy under the table with Mike M. torn between 
two lovers. attack in the lounge Ruben Sandwich, beer , Come ln ..single nng who gives a ? Moosehead with J.C. Rome or bust. laundry day? Cold showers at Motel 6,wheelchair Stacia. Sara's dad Where did this month's al· lowance go?.. Gaypole. joystick ride. Ma1denform woman, jammin in the shower,Sarah· do my make up! Sara·s private jet. How much money? SYA trade oils, Can I borrow ... wing lipsch the Police. Is that arbitrary? Password plus. who shall! pick this week? Who's alergic to al· coho!? late mghl photo sessions good friends?! That's life at ... 144 HC 
period pants. losint it ... in the trash can. out the car door. 1n the field. trophies. Nancy­lhere·s chili! dumpus maximus. Nance­get up!! put Nancy's lace up you screech. doill what time is it? mu pros­titute SISter Trix, King cakes. the Weege, 101 Sara-take those cheapbeads off! Bio class? Help you! Poses, Nec· 
Iarine.. 

THE NOTRE DAME SHAKESPEARE MARATHON. ORGINIZATIONAL MEETING TONIGHT IN THE LIBRARY LOUNGE. 7:30. COME AND FIND OUT ABOUT THE ZANIEST THING TO HIT CAMPUS SINCE THEY BUllT THE DOME. FREE FOOD TOO. CANT MAKE IT? CALL BRENDAN AT 3448 OR BOB AT 1408 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
Well. here it is, the long awaited saga ol the 5 B's on Spring Break ... Cindy. move over. Anne is falling out the door! .... my entire face is numb, look 11 1sn"t mov1ng.... Fred·s at LAX!. .. 11 UPS men on horses?... BB C&C 1. D MC a close 2... 0eneen. how·s your little boy? .. .W1?...The Red Teddy.. Get her away !rom me, I'm scared ol her!.....hot dog casseroles should be buried immediate· ly... Hotel New Hampshire is a ? movie...Two Spo1led Women ...lree st1cky chewy chocolate ice cream !rom the live in lovers.. It's the Pacific Ocean and I'm going to drown in it!'"... Do you think the grapelruil will make it safely?"... Do M1chi· gan boys really know how to play ten· nis?... That plane can't really be ours. how many propellers does it hElve? .. Naugles IS reopemng!(or so D1ck says!)..... Do you lh1nk they will ever wnte?. I want a lewd pen pall· ... Sonny Bono really IS short... How many Bramff people does it take to give seat assign­ments? ...do walking ducks replace duck slippers?... You have a yearning In your 
. !pins_!?..Tha,nks.PSP,.~e love you! 

A representative of the JVCs (Jesun Volunteer Corps: Midwest) will be at the Center for Social Concerns on Thursday. April 5th, 1OAM until &PM. Stop by or call 239-5293. 
THE CIRCUS IS HEREII! TODAY!! I ON THE FIELDHOUSE MALL-12-1 PM-­FOR THE YOUNG AND THE YOUNG AT HEART! LET'S CELEBRATE SPRING !II 
GOING TO HARRISBURG PA. APRIL 7. RETURN TO S.B. APRIL 13 RIDERS CALL 288-5971 
HI LOVELY LEWIS LADIES FROM A 
CERTAIN STANFORD KNUCK· 
LEHEAD!THANKS A MILLION FOR REMEMBERING APR. 2. YOU'RE GREAT PENNY. COL. SHEILA LORI. JENNY. EAIN,TAISH. SONDRA -OH AND YOU TOO DEB(HOWS THAT BIG NO. 5. WHO IS THIS SCHMUSEN GUY?) 
DELICIOUS SANDWICHES DELIVERED BY THE YELLOW SUB· MARINE MON-THUA 8-11 & FRI·SAT 8· 
1. CALL 272-4453 FOR SPEEDY SEAVICEII 
RON AIEBSCHLEGEA, RUMOR HAS IT THAT DR. ANTHONY LIT A CANDLE FOR YOU AT THE GROTTO GOOD LUCK ON PHYSICS. 
A.E.I.O.U. and sometimes Y. George .. gandi Connor and Tom .. take a chance Sexton we want your vowels. Thanks tor a great time. We love you. The seven Bahama Mamas 
Dr. M1ll P. Anous. Quit mak1ng House Calls -a disturbed patient. 
STEREOTYPES A Beaux Arts Ball STEREOTYPES South Dining Hall STEREOTYPES Fnda y, April 6 STEREOTYPES 9:00p.m. to 1:30 a.m STEREOTYPES $4.00 STEREOTYPES Presale tickets only STEREOTYPES Alcohol prohibited STEREOTYPES 

POONIES II: Well, snap my suspenders Now that you're 19 (not 18 or 20. but 19). we'll make sure you get that Ch1-Ch,-s glass. Happy Birthday Lisa Buller Love. Your Roomies. Poomes.l an.d L ~>' 0 

~4(Jt~C3L~---------------------------------------W--ed_n_e_s_da_y_,_A_pr_il_4_,_1_9_84----pa_g_e_l_l



Berke Breathed 
ANDWHRTAIIOI/MIClPU A6€ 7HI5 61151Nf.55 
lf!S CG\tl~ A 


a: PfATH! 
~ ~ARl.Y 

FOR MR. &1/JKJ..fY. I flON'T UKf IT!
f~ I 
I 

-~.... 
~\...\\,~-.., 
-~\Ju "~~ ·~~''' 
Shoe MacNelly 

Guindon Richard Guindon The Far Side Gary Larson 


"z i 
0 
~ 
' 
9 
i 
~ 
I.U 

~ •·, 
The Daily Crossword 
Campus 
•2 
p.m. -Baseball, ND vs Valparaiso, Jake Kline Field 

•2:30 
p.m. -Income Tax Assistance Program, Lafortune Student Center 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Production Control of Manufacturing in High Tech Environment," James Guardino, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, Howard Decker, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by AlA Student Chapter 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Ten -35 Sec. after the Big Bang," Prof. Alan Guth, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "The Transforming Ability of Papillomaviruses," Dr. Susan L. Watts, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•5 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Two Kingdoms of Alejo Carpentier: Novel and History. Relationships of History and Magic Realism in the Novel The Kingdom on This Earth, with references to other works by the Cuban author," Fernando Del Paso, 


115 Law School 

•7 
p.m. -Films, "Man With A Movie Camera," and "Potemkin," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m.-Film, "Live and Let Die," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $1 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Urgh-A Music War," Chautauqua, Sponsored by Student Union, $1 

•7 
p.m. -Discussion, "The Moral Menace of Militarism and Nuclear Warfare," Sacred Heart Crypt 

•7 
p.m. -Psychology Workshop, Lafortune Little Theatre 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "A Rape Crisis: Effects on the Vic­tim," Rm. 14 CCE, Sponsored by Notre Dame Women's Caucus Free 

•8 
p.m. -AMNES1Y International Meeting, Center for Social Concerns 

•8 
p.m. -Poetry Readings, Richard Pillinghast, Carroll Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, The Cimarron Wind Quintet, Little Theatre 


TV Tonight 
9p.m.  16  Facts oflife  
22  Wednesday Night Movie  
28  Dynasty  
9:30p.m.  16  Night Coun  
10p.m.  16  St. Elsewhere  
28  Hotel  
llp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  


ACROSS 1 Colo. partt 6 Stinging 
Insect 10 Army men: abbr. 14 Bikini, for one 
15 Winged 
16 Shut In 17 Entrance to San Fran· cisco Bay 19 Fitzgerald 
20 Building wing 21 Votes against 22 Woodworttlng tool 
24 Dwelt 
26 Five: pref. 
27 Morse Invention: abbr. 
28 Cure 29 Fr. title 32 Direct 
elsewhere 35 Chalrfor 
two 37 Particle 38 Cognizant 40 Beginner: 
var. 41 Item for goal poats 43 Kind of TV show 44 Snlggler'a 
catch 45 The East 46 Born 47 Fabric 
49 Agreement 53 Author Nelson 55 Ballet skirt 
56 LoulsXIV for one 57 -the bill 
(pay) 58 Poetale 61 Klngof 
Huns 62 Thymeor a age 63 Simon's 
"Plaza-" 64 Needle 65 TV award 66 Participate 
In 
DOWN 1 Desirous 2 Neckplece 3 Road fares 4 Ancient 
times 5 Narrow 6 Carried on 7 Alack's 
partner 8 Wasln session 

9 Maintain 10 Fragrance 11 Israeli 
premier 12 Metalware 13 Mast 18 Coward 
23 Br. prln· cess 25 News 
reports 26 Indigent 28 Barton 
or Bow 

30 Jap. ship word 31 Harrow's 
counterpart 32 Speed 33 Raisond'­34 Iron 
pyrites 36 Soak 

38 Green 51 Itinerary 
liqueur 52 Princeton's 39 Wagon symbol 42 Sur1elt 53 Longway 43 Drive off off 46 Western 
alliance 

54 Fr. novel· 1st 48 Bandleader 55 Period of Shaw service 49 Tom Brown's 59 Edging school 60 Grayish· 50 Circle brown 
Tuesday's Solution 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 4/4/84 
JAMES BOND FILM WEEK CONTINUES • TONIGHT: • : ROGER 
in IAN FLEMING'S •• 
1:oo MOORE ..LIVE : 
••• 9:15 Eng.:
7':: 

AND 1 Aud. • 
: 11:3o JAMES 
LETDJ-E"~s1 .oo :
• BOND 
: TOMORROW NIGHT: FOR YOUR EYES ONLY :
.............................................. 

! 
S~orts 

Some say the best offense is a good defense, and ifso, sophomore-to-be cornerback Troy Wilson is a perfect exe~mpk as be returns an interception against Army last fall. Wilson is expected to make strong contribu-
Spring practice 

lions at his defensive spot next season for defensive coordinator and secondary coach A1ldy Christoff Trish Sullivan's story below. 

Christoff pleased with his defense 
By TRISH SUlliVAN 
Sports Writer 

With more than a week of spring practice under his belt, defensive coordinator and secondary coach Andy Christoff has gotten a chance to sec what he ha.'i 10 work with for the fall -and he is plea.o;antly surprised. 
"I'm very happy with the progress we've shown," says Christoff. "The guys have worked hard on their pur­suit of the football and the basic tct·hniques ofdefense." 
With only two experienced players returning next fall in the defensive backfield, it was far from an enviable ta.'ik that Christoff took on. Tht· defensive philosophy he has adopted for his players is one that goes back to the basics. 
"We've got to work on technique 
and play aggressive ball -meaning 
no tricks or complicated defenses," 
explains Christoff. "This week we've 
only used one defense, and doing 
things like that allows us to con­
centrate more and gain some con­
fidence." 

Co-captain and senior (to-be)Joe Johnson helps to assure that con­fidence in the strong safety position. 
Missing only one game last sea.o;on due to injury, the 6-2, 192-pound Johnson finished the season with 50 tackles and four sacks. He was a con-
Sluby not going 

stant menace to oppo!>ing teams, of­ten responsible for making the big defensive play. 
Also lending his experience to the secondary is junior Pat Ballage. A starter in 1983, the 6-2, 197-pound Ballage compiled 55 tackles for the year, and proved himself as a solid tackler at the weak cornerback posi­tion. 
The experienced players can't feel pressure on themselves to carry the defense, though. "For our philosophy to be implemented, everyone has to do his job and have confidence in his teammates," com­ments Christoff. 
The rest of the secondary posi­tions are filled with question marks. 
In order to alleviate the problem of lack of depth, a few players have switched positions. Sophomore Mike Haywood is putting up a battle for the strong cornerback spot with Ballage. Haywood, a 5-11, 176­pound former wide receiver who missed most of the 1983 campaign with a tom thigh muscle, is a speedster who should add some depth. 
"Haywood, Trey Coleman and Van Pearcy -the players we've asked to switch positions -have done very well," boasts Christoff. "The guys have taken a positive mental attitude about the situation and have made progress." 
The other safety and comer posi­
tions appear to be in the hands of 
sophomores Steve Lawrence and 
Troy Wilson, respectively. 

Lawrence, ( 6-0, 180-pounds) 
earned one start last season against 
Colorado, and played frequently as 
Chris Brown's backup. 

The 5-11, 170-pound Wilson earned his rookie stripes as a starter on two occasions, filling in for the injured Stacey Toran. Wilson made a great insurance play in the Uberty Bowl, a game-clinching deflection, in addition to registering 18 tackles and two interceptions for the year. 
Christoff is also looking forward to seeing the incoming freshmen do well in August. Especially im­pressive is cornerback Brandy Wells from Montclair, N). Wells was named on just about everybody's all­America teams. 
"It's difficult for any freshman to come in right away and start," adds Christoff. "Every player has to prove himselffirst." 
Although it's too early to predict anything for the fall, the so-called weak spot on the Irish defense seems to be shaping up nicely, at least so far. 
With his defense playing ag­gressively and confidently, the defensive coordinator has one goal in mind: "The obvious goal -we want to win." 

Invitations made to Olympic trials 
As.'iOCiated Press 

Tht· Amateur Basketball Associa­tion of the liSA yesterday an­nounced the 74 players to be invited to tht.· 19!i4 Olympic Basketball Tri­als. and senior swingman Tom Sluby 
of Notrt· Dame was noticeably ab­'>cnt from the list. However, it wasn't 
a  matter  of  Sluby's  not  being  
sdet·tcd, said  Head Coach  Digger  
Phelps.  
"We  talked  about  it,  and  Tom  

talked to his mother about it, and right now he is more concerned about graduation," said Phelps. 
"He's already missed a week of school, so he's not playing in any all­star game,. His priority right now is getting a degree." 
The Olympic Trials will be held at Indiana University in Bloomington, Ind., April I7-22, under the direc­tion ofOlympic coach Bobby Knight and the ABAUSA Games Committee. 
The players invited are: 

Mark Acres, Oral Roberts Univer­sity; Mark Alarie, Duke; Steve Alford. Indiana; Charles Barkley, Auburn; Walter Berry, San JacintoJunior Col­lege; Len Bias, Maryland; Steve Black, LaSalle; Sam Howie, Kentucky. 
Charles Bradley, University of South Florida, Delray Brooks, Rogers High School-Michigan City, Ind.; Mike Brown, George Washington; Michael Cage, San Diego State; Roosevelt Chapman, Dayton; Lorenzo Charles, North Carolina State; Steve Colter, New Mexico State; Tyr.one Corbin, DePaul. 
Wardell Curry, Virginia Tech.; Johnny Dawkins, Duke; Bruce Douglas, Illinois; Joe Dumars, McNeese State; Devin Durrant, Brig­ham Young; Patrick Ewing, George­town; Vern Fleming, Georgia; Alvin Franklin, Houston. 
Lancaster Gordon, Louisville; Greg Grant, Utah State, A.C. Green, Oregon State; Mark Halsel. Nor­theastern; Steve Harris, Tulsa; Butch Hays, California-Berkeley; Charles Hightower, U.S. Armed Forces; Jay Humphries, Colorado. 
Bobby Lee Hurt, Alabama; Lewis Jackson, Alabama State; Charles Jones, Louisville; Michael Jordan, 
North Carolina; Joe Kleine, Arkansas; Jon Koncak, Sourthern Methodist; Larry Krystkowiak, Mon-
See TRIALS, page 8 

Wednesday, Apri14, 1984-page 12 

ere to take yourse out to the ball game 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 

Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! With April upon us and springtimt· in the air. a young man's 
thoughts turn to, among other things ...bast·ball. Well, at least the thoughts ofsome people do. The next six months will be filled with 
warm weather, trips to the lake and the delightful sounds of the national pa.~time. So, this week let's take a plea.'iant diversion from 
the confines of the Notre Dame campus to explore the wonderful world of ba.'icball. 
The Parks ...One of the most popular things to do during the 
spring at this campus is leave. In March, we go to tropical paradi~cs 
such a.o; Florida, Texas or Elkhart on spring break. In May, we take 
those delightful tests known as finals and head for summer jobs or 
unemployment lines. But where do you go in April? To the ballpark, 
ofcourse! If you arc going to take a day and go to the hallgame, but aren't 
sure exactly where to go, this section is for you. Now, I don't know 
what appeals to your particular tastes, and I don't claim to be an 
expert on the subject, hut I have been to all of the stadiums within mity of here. Here's my rating of the stadiums with pros 
and cons. 

/-Comiskey Park ...Home of the 19H3 AL West champion Chicago White Sox. Located just off the Dan Ryan Expressway, it's easy to get to, and once you are in the park, it's hard to believe this stadium is the oldest in the majors. The exploding scoreboard, Diamond Vision, Nancy Faust at the organ, great food, and the rowdy Sox fans can make a trip to this park enjoyable for people who don't even like baseball. The fact that the team often wins is icing on the cake. 
There aren't a lot of bad aspects about this park. Other than the gripe that if it's a rainy day, the roof doesn't protect you much be­cause of all the leaks, I haven't found any major faults. Put this park among the best in the majors. 
2-Wrigley Field ...This is paradise to a die-hard Cub fan. The ivy­covered walls and old-fashioned atmosphere arc throwbacks to a time before baseball wa.<> marred by strikes and ridiculous contracts. And, one has to admit Cub fans are among the most loyal people in the world (unless, of course, your name is Lee Elia). A day in the bleachers will prove it. 
However, there arc some problems with the park. The nearest parking spot is in Peoria, and unless you sit in the upper deck or bleachers, walls and posts will block your view ofat lea.o;t two crucial plays a game. With the Cubs, that may be all you get. Finally, since all the games at Wrigley arc played during the day, you'll have to miss some classes to go on a weekday. Then again, that might not be a disadvantage. 
3-Milwaukee County Stadium ...Here's another stadium right offthe interstate with easy access and plenty ofparking. This park is worth the drive for the concessions and tailgaters alone. Never mind the hot dogs -have the bratwurst and sauerkraut, and remember, this city didn't nickname their team the Brewers for nothing. 
Nevertheless, the fact remains that spring in Wisconsin is even colder than in South Bend, and one must dress accordingly. Add to the cold weather a three-and-a-half hour drive, not including the time change, and a night game in Milwaukee could be an experience in masochism. 
4-Tiger Stadium ...As far as just watching the ball game, this park is one ofthe best around. The stadium's construction puts you right on top of the action anyplace in the house. The modem scoreboard, fine food and the hilarious Detroit fans who are willing to voice their 

opinion vociferously arc three big advantages to this old-time bal­lpark. 
Unfortunately, you may never be able to get to the ballpark. There arc plenty of cars in Detroit, but nobody cleared away any place to put them in the vicinity of Tiger Stadium. Also, without trying to insult anybody, the Detroit fans have been known to get out of hand with opposing tans at times. If you make the trip to Tiger Stadium, you had better "root, root, root for the home team." 
5-]ake Kline Field ...Barely edged out of fourth place by Tiger Stadium, there arc several advantages to this park. You don't need to worry about parking since it's within walking distance ofyour dorm. The fans arc right on top of the action in the home plate bleachers. Concessions and restroom facilities are nearby, and the newly· installed organ provides plenty ofentertainment for the fans ... 
Pick ofthe Week ...which leads me to the pick of the week for this week. The Irish diamondcrs will see plenty ofaction during the next few days at Jake Kline Field as long as the weatherman cooperates. Valparaiso will be the opponent this afternoon at 2, before Wisconsin and DePauw invade Notre Dame for doubleheaders Saturday and Sunday, respectively. The first game each day starts at I p.m. 




