

Corby's -page 3 
VOL XIX, NO. I THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1984 

East Race Waterway picnic to honor ND/SMC freshmen 
ByPATSAIN East Race Waterway during the creative and unique social options Senior StaffReporter hours of the picnic. Mayor Parent Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­and his staff will be serving free kiel­dents ever may have known,"' said 
South Bend Mayor Roger Parent basa and drink to everyone present. Parent, citing an article which ap­has invited freshmen from Notre "The picnic is a welcome to Notre peared in the Sept. 3 issue of The Dame and Saint Mary's to a picnic in Dame and Saint Mary's students Observer. their honor at the new East Race from the City of South Bend," said "We would have invited all the Waterway. Parent. "Students in the past haven't students," said Parent, but the 
The picnic will take place this really had an opportunity to get to response would be too unpredicta­Sunday, Sept. 16, from 10 a.m. to 4 know South Bend." ble. According to Parent, by inviting p.m., and will fe~ture free raft and The East Race Waterway, a man­only freshmen all students at Notre inner-tube rides down the East Race made extension of the St. Joseph's Dame and Saint Mary's will be Waterway. Rubber-soled shoes are River, offers opportunities for activi­invited over a period offour years. required and long pants are recom­ties ranging from a leisurely float "We arc prepared for about 500 mc:nded. downstream to Olympic white­people," said Parent. "We realize it is 
Free bus service will he provided water kayaking. short notice for students, and we'll from the Notre Dame Circle to the "The East Race is 'one of the most be happy if only 200 people show 
Parent said he was counting on the picnic to generate good publicity and to be the start ofbetter relations between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and the City of South 
Oversight left abortion up." 
covered under policy 
Bend. By MIKE MILLEN reimbursed for an abortion. "Occasionally, the students get to StaffReporter He says G-M was surprised to dis­know the city in the wrong way," 
cover the loophole, and they were said Parent, citing the closing of 
Ever since Notre: Dame has dealt "very cooperative" and "more than Corby's, a popular student bar, and with G-M llnderwriters for its Stu­willing" to rectify the situation. the crackdown on large parties. "We dc:nt Insurance: Policy, abortions llpon the llniversity's request, a spe­want to be good hosts to the stu­have been covered under the basic cific exclusion was immediately dents of Notre Dame and Saint plan. Starting this year, however, made to the policy. Letters were Mary's," he said. that will change. sent to all subscribers notifying More can be done to let students 
Father William Beauchamp, exec­them them of the change. llnder the know what is going on in South utive assistant to the president, said new plan, abortions sanctioned by Bend, said Parent. If the picnic is a 
Graduate student Randy Rentner contemplates the purchase 
it was an oversight, adding "If you the church, such as those for medi­success, efforts will be made to in­
of a "dirty book" at yesterday's book sale at Notre Dame's 
looked at the ma..~ter policy, there is cal reasons, are not precluded. clude students in other South Bend 
Memoria/library. The "dirty books" are nothing more than used 
no way you would pick up that abor­Beauchamp said the exclusion activities, he said, mentioning 
books wbtcb the library bad decided to removefrom its collection. 
tions were covered." He explained should have little effect. "My Dyngus D:ly as a possibility. that because abortions are defined suspicion wa..o; probably most stu­as "gc:neral surgery," they were al­dents didn't know it was covered," 

N. Y. Governor Cuomo to discuss 
ways treated a..~ such under the he said, adding that no one has sent a policy. letter in disagreement with the ac­Beauchamp said over the summer tion. He said he was unaware of any 

religion, politics at tonight's lecture
a hr<Khure went out to students. It students who had requested abor­said abortions were covered under tions. 
By THERESA GUARINO he said. ''I'm going to make you all the chairmanship of Father Richard the basic policy and students had no llte situation "docs have a good 
Assistant News Editor Catholics?" McBrien, who invited Cuomo to need to subscribe to the "Maternity result," pointed out Beauchamp, be­
Cuomo also noted, "The Church speak. He cited a review of Option." lltis notice prompted him cause it "raises our consciousness to 
Religion and politics will be the has never been this aggressively in­McBrien's book Catbolocism which to chn·k with G-M and determine the abortion issue... We must always 
issue when New York Governor volved" in such national policies said McBrien's approach to the tht: legitimacy of a student being be on guard." 
Mario Cuomo speaks to an expected before. In response, the President of Church "seems to transfer the teach­capacity crowd in Washington Hall the National Conference of Bishops, ing authority from the episcopal as­
.. ' 
tonight. BishopJames Malone, issued a state­sembly and the Pope to the 
Cuomo's address is sponsored by ment calling for American bishops concensus of modern theologians." the John A. O'Brien lecture series of not to endorse or oppose political Rice opposes Cuomo's invitation, the Department ofTheology. He was candidates. saying the effect will be to "aid him invited to speak at Notre Dame last O'Connor ha..~ repeatedly said that (Cuomo) in perpetuating this June, before his keynote address to while he also opposes Democratic fraud." the Democratic National Conven­Vice Presidential candidate "In a way, Mario Cuomo and the
t 
tion in July. Geraldine Ferraro's views on abor­Notre Dame Department Cuomo's lecture is expected to at­tion and politics, he docs not believe 
~..~···· 
<;)? tract national attention because of in trying to sway Catholic voters. his well publicized disagreements Ferraro, like Cuomo, has said she with New York Archbishop John personally opposes abortion, but O'Connor over the issue oflcgalized must uphold the law which legalizes abortion. Cuomo, who is Catholic, abortion and provides for state fun­has explained that while he per­ding ofabortions. sonally opposes abortion, he still is llte statement by the Bishops sworn to uphold the llnited States Conference noted it "would be Constitution, which guarantees regrettable if religion as such were freedom ofchoice in such a matter. injected into a political campaign 
O'Connor has said he couldn't un­through appeals to a candidate's reli­derstand "how a Catholic in good gious affiliations and commitments." conscience can vote for a candidate Cuomo has also come under at­who explicitly supports abortion." tack by Notre Dame Law Professor 
Mario Cuomo 
"We (the Church) say we cannot Charles E. Rice, who issued a accept that concept-I am personally prepared statement to the Observer. deserve each other." opposed but · which is the so-called Rice said that "Mario Cuomo, Another Notre Dame Law Profes­pro-choice concept. Maybe one can Geraldine Ferraro and others would sor, Donald Kommers, sent Cuomo a distinguish. I don't see how you can. like the voters to believe the 'pro­letter on the abortion and politics It seems to me that if you maintain choice' position they espouse is ac­issue, expressing "considerable dis­that you're pro-choice, then you tually a 'pro-life' position. Whatever may over the way the religion­have to say you approve abortion if it the intent of the Theology Depart­politics debate Is shaping up in 
· is chosen, so that makes you pro­ment, one effect of the invitation to America today." abortion." Governor Cuomo will be to Kommers calls the view that abor­
Vtce-Prestdental hopeful Geraldine Ferraro turns to wave to  Cuomo has said he believes the  legitimize  that  claim  as  at  least  tion is exclusively a religious Issue  
the crowd gathered on a balcony for a rally yesterday in down­ nation is built on people who don't  dcbatably authentic."  
tou•n Columbus. Ferraro completed a campaign tourthrough Ohio tdtb the rally.  impose their religious beliefs on others. "So I'm a Catholic governor,"  Rice also crizicized the leadership of the Theology Department under  see CUOMO, page 3  

The Observer Thursday, September 13, 1984 -page 2 

Maybe a prank
In Brief ., _ 
-
• y :r;' ~ . 7 .>:: t-'~ 
is just a prank 
The Infonet Phone System is once again com­pletely functional, and the problems which students have been ex­periencing should be cleared up. Some students who tried to call off-campus during the period of complication were notified the call could not be completed. According to Ombudsman, the delay was caused by the recent addition of new trunk lines, thus allowing a larger number of students to call an off-campus number at any one time. During the installation various area code zones were not in operation. -The Observer 
"Ideas, Values, and Images," the interdiscipli-· nary sophomore core course will be the beneficiary of a n 99,787 grant from the National Endowmnet for the Humanities. The three­year grant to the College of Arts and letters, $50,000 of which is contingent upon the college's raising of an additional $50,000, will fund a course review and a plan for faculty enrichment directed by Anastasia Gutting, assistant director of the core course. The project will include a course evaluation by a committee of scholars from Notre Dame and other universities. -The Observer 
Are you plagued by dangling participles? Are you baffied by "whom"and "who?" Ifso, help is only a phone call away at 1-212-R-E-W-R-1-T-E, a grammar hotline staffed by faculty at New York's York College that provides advice on grammar, word usage and spelling. The hotline is open Monday through Thursday from noon to 3 p.m. Collect calls are not accepted. The program was founded three years ago by English Professor Joan Baum and Alan Cooper, department chairman.· The Observer 
Of Interest 
A half-hour "Nightline" program will be broad­cast from Washington Hall on ABC-TV at 1 0:30 tonight in the wake of New York Gov. Mario Cuomo's lecture on religion and politics. Ted Koppel will moderate the program, on which Cuomo and University President Father Theodore Hesburgh will appear. Remote facilities ofWNDU-TV will be used earlier to put the entire Cuomo speech on the satellite to feed WNET-TV, New York City's public television station, which will broadcast the entire speech live. The Observer 
Parking will be restrictedin the northwest sec­tion of the stadium parking lot and in the circle drive north of Dorr Road between the Stadium and Memorial library, today and tomor­row. Barricades and signs will be posted. The restrictions are caused by the Decio Faculty Hall Dedication. Ample space should be available in the A-1 and B-1 parking lots. Parking will be prohibited in the area between Decio Faculty Hall and O'Shaughnessy Hall. -The Observer 
The Scholarship Bankurges college students who have not received the necessary state or federal funds for continued education to apply for private educational funding. Working in con­junction with high school and college financial aid counselors, The Scholarship Bank will send students a computer-generated printout of the private aid sources that the students appears specifically qualified to receive. The Scholarship Bank has approximately 25,000 sources ofprivate financial aid and will send students a list of 20 to 50 names and addresses upoon receipt from the student of a ques­tionare. The questionare can be ordered from the The Scholarship Bank in los Angeles by sending a stamped, self-addressed envelope to 10100 Santa Monica Boulevard, 2600, los Angeles, Calif., 90067. · 
The Observer 


Weather 
Partly cloudy,breezy and warm today with a 30 percent chance of thunderstorms. High in the mid 80s. Partly cloudy tonight with a 20 per­cent chance ofthundershowers. low in the mid to upper 50s. Partly sunny tomorrow with a high in the low to mid 70s. -AP 

From the front page story in yesterday's Observer it 
looks like Notre Dame Security is now hot on the trail of 
the person or persons who stole the Knute Rockne bust 
from the Rockne Memorial last May. It seems that even 
the los Angeles Police Department has been involved 
in the case in some way. However the Security Depart­
ment will not comment further on that aspect of the 
case. 
I'm not exactly sure where one draws the line be­
tween where a harmless prank ends and where a crime 
begins, but I think it has to do with the intent behind the 
deed. Pranks are not done with the intent of hurting 
someone, rather they are done-in a spirit offun, while a 
crime is done only for one's personal gain. This ques­
tion ofwhat is a prank or a crime and how each should 
be dealt with are ones that Notre Dame Security Direc­
tor Glenn Terry and the administration will have to 
wrestle with if they get some positive evidence against 
those who have been accused of taking the Rockne 
bust. And it looks like it will 
not be long before Notre 
Dame Security, just like the 
Mounties, gets their man, or 
in this case maybe their wo­
man too. 
Obviously the Adminis­
tration does not take student 
pranks, such as the abduct­
ing of statues, lightly. This is 
evidenced by the fact that 
once the famous Father 
Sorin statue was returned to 
his original place in Sorin 
Hall they made sure he was 
going to stay there. The 
statue is now filled with con­
crete through to the pedas­
tal and bolted down to make 
sure no more bad students 
try to steal it and take it 
away. 
People often claim that Notre Dame is too serious a · campus. When was the last time you saw the fountain 
outside LaFortune filled with soap bubbles? Or some­
one's room, complete with loft, set up in the quad? 
Pranks come about when people have time on their 
hands and have nothing to do with it. With the advent of 
the new alcohol policy some students have been having 
a hard time trying to find new things to do with the time 
they previously spent partying and drinking. This could 
lead to an outbreak ofuncontrollable pranks. So the an­
swer to the problem of how to control pranks is ob­
vious, at least from the administration's point of view. 
Fill up the students' time. You must remember, we 
Notre Dame students are the leaders of tomorrow, the 
cream of the crop of students (y~s, I remember Father 
Ted's speech from Freshman year). You can't have the 
"leaders of tomorrow" pulling vicious pranks such as 
stealing a statue, painting Moses' toenails or, horror of 



Mark Potter 
Copy Editor 
Inside Thursd 
horrors, placing a beer can in Moses' upstretched hand. Everybody knows that drinking outside is not allowed and that rule applies even to statues, just because they are made of metal and wood does not mean they are going to get away from the rules of the administration. 
The obvious answer is to make the students take more classes and give them more homework. Make stu­dents take more non-Catholic Religion courses, this would not only fill up the student's time but also quiet those who complain that students should be required 
to take courses in non­Catholic Religion. This way the students would not only get to take more non­Catholic religion courses, but they would be forced to. 
The thing to remember about pranks is that they are just that, pranks. They are mischievious acts designed for fun, not to hurt someone. If they do end uphurting someone or damaging prop­erty then obviously they have gotten out of hand. Pranks can liven up a stu­dent's life on a campus that frequently needs more than just a little livening up. 

The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large·pririt, wide­column article on the Viewpoint page. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Observer staff. 
Read Psycho Chicken 


Navy Nursing 
2 careers in 1! 
FIRST -You're a Navy Nurse. You work in a Professional E''lvironment and have the opportunity for advanced training. You are also in an im­mediate supervisory position. 
SECOND -You are a Navy officer. This in­cludes travel and adven­ture. Your salary and ben­efits are comparable to civilian nursing. 
REQUIREMENTS 
BSN degree. or a three­year diploma with one year related experience. 
SEND YOUR RESUME TO: Navy Medical Programs Rm 643 575 N. Pennsylvania lfldianapolis, IN 46204 
OR CALL KATHY SCANLON TOLL FREE: 1-800-382-9782 

ND-SMC Council for the Retarded 

(LOGAN CENTER) 
Organizational Meeting 8 p.m. Thursday (9/13) at the Center for Social Concerns 
New Volunteers Welcome 




i6$fzacli 
SPECIAL 
$1 OFF Any Meal With This Ad 
********** 
Specializing In: 
Smoked Fried Deliciously Thick 
*HICKORY RIBS *CHICKEN *PIZZA 
********** BEER and WINE 
Phone Ahead-Complete Carryout 
TWO LOCATIONS: 
1835 Uncolnway East South Bend-Open 1days-2U-8240 St Rd. 23 &Bittersweet, Granger Closed Monday Only 217-3143 


The Observer (USPS 599 Z-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the srudents </ the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( SZO per se· mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Allsodakd Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor ....................... Lev Chapdsky DesignAsststant ........................ Paul Bruce Layout Staff........................ Mark We!nholt Typesetters ............ , Tracy,Jennifer Bigou News Editor ........................... Marc Ramirez Copy Editor .............................. jane Kravcik Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Layout.................... Dave Grote ND Day Editor ................... Melinda Moore Ad Design ......Suzanne, Marianne, Marina Pbotograpber ........................ Chris McLean 

The Obserwr Thursday, September 13, 1984 -page 3 
ton, Massachusetts. The reserve bas long been a A herd of White Tail deer stand alert and ready havenfor the animals in the midst ofthe urban con­as thty forage through the Webster Reservoir in New-crete and steel. 
Corby's may open late this month 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
/ixecutl ve Editor 
The fate of the closed Corby Tavt·rn should be known within a few days, according to Michael Scopditis, attorney for Rose Rowley. 
Rose Rowley was officially named administrator of the estate of her husband, Harold Rowley, Jr., Mon­day in Superior Court. 'lbe an­nouncement followed a Sept. 1 ht·aring in which Judge William Whitman ruled Rose Rowley could replace Rowley's father, Harold Rowley Sr., as administrator of the estate. Rowley Sr. had been adminis­
r.................................................
....c;-..r....o--..r..r...o-...r...o-.....-..r..r~.....-.......J.:>':If"...r.r...r...r.....-...............................cr.......~..., 

~ Whe!~sif!!~~~! ~! t~~tle ~ 
~ minutes from campus § 
~ 
~ s
§ §
I 
272-0312 

~ ~ ~~~~~:.:r~•1•-~ dnt· 
~ ( ..,, ll.d 2 ~)
I 
\l rms from Martm's 

Hair must be Shampooed day of cut.~ ~ We are only minutes from campus ~ 
::;r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r....cr....cr...r.r..r..r...r...ocr..r..r....c>""..r~.....-.....-..r..r..r..r..r..r...r...r..r...r.l
............. 



! *********************************** 
*A1TENTION SENIORS* : 

~  ~  
:  ND-SMC Senior Trip Final Payments  :  
~  for those who paid their deposits  ~  
~  and  ~  
~!  those who still wish to get one ofthe  ~ :  
~  few limited seats left  ~  
:  are due!!  :  
:  TODAYANDFRIDAY  :  
:  ALL SENIORS!  :  
~  ~  
~  ~  
:  COLLECTION TIMES:  :  
: : :  SMC: 4:30 • 6:30 Dining Hall (Lemans side) M-F NO: 11:15-1 and 5-7  : ! f  
:  LaFortune M-F  :  
~  ~  
~  ~  
:  AMOUNTS DUE:  !  
~  Paid Deposits: $190°0  !  
:  w I o Deposits: $290°0  :  
~  ~  
:  ALL PAYMENTS ARE DUE BY SEPTEMBER 14th  :  
~  OR SEATS WILL BE LOST  ~  


~**** ·*****·**·*************-**·*******~ 
tering the estate since his son was murdered Aug. I. 
Rowley Jr. was the owner of the popular student bar, located at I026 Corby Ave. 
"I think we're going to know by Friday whether Corby's is going to be opened, and if so, when it will be opened," said Scopelitis yesterday. 
Scopelitis is handling negotiations to obtain the nearly S13,000 needed to repay back employee taxes owed by the bar. Corby's was seized and dosed by the Internal Revenue Ser­vice Aug. 23 because of the unpaid taxes. 
~ 

oo HAIRCUTS ~ 
§ 
~-~ 
~  ~ 
Welcome Back  .."" •  
1  
Students  \.~  ~  
s  


Scopelitis said he and Rose .Rowley are discussing a loan with James Broad, a Chicago accountant 
who jointly owned the tavern prop­
erty with Rowley Jr. 
"I like to think we're pretty dose" to an agreement, said Scopelitis. "But I won't believe it until we see the money," he added. 
If the money is obtained, Rose 
Rowley hopes to have the bar open 
"by the first (Notre Dame) home 
game (Sept. 22)," said the attorney. 
Scopelitis said it has not been de­
termined who would manage 
Corby's if the bar re-opens. 




EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CWCAGO'S O'HARE EVERY ZHOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
SUNDAY, OCT. 7-7:30P.M. MORRIS CIVIC CENTER 
TICKETS: $11.00 ALL SEATS RESERVED, ON SALE NOW AT CENTURY CENTER BOX OFFICE, NIGHT WINDS & JUST FOR THE RECORD (SOUTH BEND), SUPER SOUNDS & SUSPENDED CHORD (ELKHART) & J.R. RECORD SHOPPE (laPORTE). 
CHARGE BY PHONE WITH MC/VISA 284-9111 
Decio Faculty building to celebrate dedication 
By DOUG HASLER 
News Staff 
Declo Faculty Hall, the now fully occupied home of Notre Dame's Arts and Letters faculty, will be dedi­cated this Friday and Saturday. 
Several events planned for the two-day dedication will attract dis­tinguished scholars from around the country. 
Friday's events begin way at 9 
a.m. in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium with a sym­posium on the liberal arts. The Dedication Mass will take place at 3 
p.m. on the east lawn ofDecio.lfrain intervenes, the Mass will be moved to Sacred Heart Church. Garry Wills, the Notre Dame Welch visiting pro­fessor of American Studies, will ad­dress an academic convocation at Annenberg Auditorium which is scheduled to start at 10 a.m. on Sat­urday. 
Eight distinguished scholars have been invited by University President Theodore Hesburgh to receive honorary doctor of laws degrees at the convocation Saturday. Those re­ceiving degrees will be Lutheran theologian and sociologist Peter 1.. Berger; chairman ofthe National En-

Cuomo 
continuedfrom page 1 
"simplistic," and said there must be a public policy reflecting "a better balancing of state and individual in­terests than drawn for us by the Su­preme Court." 
In Cuomo's response to the letter from Kommers, he denied ever call­dowment of the Humanities William 
J. Bennett; Brazilian social scientist Fernando Henrique Cardoso; Notre Dame professor emeritus of history Matthew A. Fitzsimons; economist and former U.S. ambassador to India John Kenneth Gal.Praith; Mount Holyoke College President Elizabeth T. Keenan; Johns Hopkins department of English chairman Hugh Kenner; and poet-novelist Elizabeth Sewell. 
Friday morning's symposium will feature panels discussing "The liberal Arts and the University"and "The Liberal Arts and Society." Notre Dame historian, Professor Philip Gleason, will join the panel discussing "The Liberal Arts and the University." 
Plans for the week ending activi­ties have been in the works for about a year claims James Murphy, Associ­ate Vice-President for University Re­lations. Murphy has been in charge oforganizing the dedication events. 
The events dedicating Decio Fac­ulty Hall are not unique. Similar ceremonies coincided with the dedications ofthe Snite Museum and Stepan Chemistry Hall in recent years.· 
ing abortion a purely religious issue. "I believe everyone has an absolute right to, and should formulate his views on public issues only after consulting his conscience whether it is formed as a result of religious training and experience, or not." 
Cuomo ended his letter by saying, "I have specifically chosen the occa­sion of my visit to Notre Dame for the purpose of making my position clear on this complex issue." 
Cuomo's lecture begins at 8 p.m., and will be open to the public on a first come, first served basis. Doors will open at 7 p.m., and seating will be limited to 615. For those unable to obtain seats, the lecture will be carried live on closed circuit televi­sion in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. 


MEN of NOTRE DAME 
1985 
CALENDAR 
IS HERE AGAIN 
WE NEED YOU! 
Please submit pictures ofyour favorite males to319or007 
FARLEY By Friday 9 I 14 
J7Je bestluu a taste aBilscnm.. 


Bringoutyourbest~­

The Observer Thursday, September 13, 1984 -page 4 

Diana drifts offshore, still threatens to strike 
Associated Press 
WILMINGTON, N.C.-Hurricane 
Diana intensified yesterday as it 
drifted "with no sense of direction" 
just off the coast, and thousands of 
people were warned to stay in shel­
ters because it could still wander 
ashore with 115 mph wind and giant 
storm tides. 
Damage from the storm's first ap­proach to the coast was limited mostly to downed tree limbs, signs and power lines, uprooted trees and a broken fishing pier, with some street flooding from heavy rain. No serious injuries were reported. 
Gov. Jim Hunt said yesterday after 
inspecting the Wilmington area he 
didn't know if the state would seek 
disaster aid. "It's questionable now," 
he said. "The important thing is to 
keep watch on it." 
The storm's eye had approached to within a few miles of Cape Fear late Tuesday, but at mid-day yester­day it was drifting erratically from 40 to 50 miles east-southeast ofWil­mington. In the city, the wind blew at 29 mph with gusts to around 40 mph. 
Heavy thunderstorms and showers poured rain on eastern North Carolina and exten.ded out over the ocean for 125 miles. 
"The problem this morning is we have a hurricane with no sense ofdi­rection," said Neil Frank, director of the National Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, Fla. · 
"Without strong steering· cur­rents, it's like a leaf falling off a tree. Any slight breeze will blow it in any direction," said forecaster Jim Gross at the center, warning "it could strengthen." 

The National Weather Service said the storm was expected to eventually resume a northerly track, which would aim it at Onslow and Carteret counties and to the Outer Banks chain ofislands. 
Diana's sustained winds around Its eye eased from 135 mph late Tues­day to 115 mph early yesterday mor­ning, then rose to 120 mph but drifted back to 11 s· mph by after­noon. "Right now it's starting to in­tensify," Don Witten, National Weather Service spokesman in Washington, had said at mid­morning. 
At 3 p.m. the storm's position was latitude 34.0 degrees north and lon­gitude 77.2 degrees west, barely changed from mid-morning, the weather service said. 
A hurricane warning was in effect from the South Carolina border to Oregon Inlet at the north end of North Carolina's Hatteras Island, in­cluding most of the fragile islands of the Outer Banks, and a tornado and flood watch covered much of the eastern end ofthe state. 
More than 14,000 evacuees went to 65 shelters Tuesday in a 12­county area of coastal North Carolina, Gov. jim Hunt said.Nearly 500,000 people live in the coastal counties threatened by Diana, and gubernatorial aide R. Brent Hackney said it was impossible to tell exactly how many others were staying with relatives or in motels. 
Defective chips may cause malfunction of equipment in U.S. Defense Department 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-At the heart ofal­
most every Defense Department 
weapon are tiny "chips" carrying 
data on everything from targeting to 
maintenance. So the revelation that 
millions of chips were inadequately 
tested has sparked concern in the 
Pentagon and among defense con­
tractors. 
Over the past eight years, millions 
of chips produced by Texas Instru­
ments were inadequately tested. 
Most of them are expected to work, 
but some may fail at critical mo­
ments, Pentagon officials fear. 
With chips in nearly every piece 
of military epuipment that moves, 
the possible complications are enor­
mous. 
The Texas Instruments chips 
could have been placed in every­
thing from radios, walkie-talkies and 
helicopters to fighter-bombers, 
tanks and submarines. A navy ship 
could use thousands of the 
fingernail-sized cells. 
Pentagon officials on Monday told defense contractors to stop accept­ing Texas Instruments microchips until the problem can be solved. The Texas computer firm has sold mil­lions ofchips to more than 80 other contractors for installations in a wide variety ofweapons systems. 
Officials admit they don't know how widespread the problem is. However, Donald E. Moore, quality control chief of the Pentagon's Defense Logistics Agency, cited computers aboard the B-52 as one place where the Texas Instruments chips were located. The big planes are the heart of the nation's nuclear bomber force. 
More than 1 5 million of 4,700 va­rieties ofthe suspect chips were sold to IBM, Pentagon officials say. Mil­lions more may have been sold to other contractors. 
"Any weapon that contains a so­phisticated electronic part" could have some of the suspect chips inside, Moore said. 

The tiny information-carrying chips aren't confined to the defense industry, and are common in consu­mers goods ranging from cars to cal­culators. In weapons, the chips provide data that "tells" a weapon when, where and how to work. 
Texas Instruments vice president Norman Neureiter said the company is working "night and day" to find out what went wrong and where the chips were sent. 
At first, Neureiter said, the com­pany thought the situation was simply a "paper problem" but "later we began to conclude that perhaps some tests had been omitted." 
"There is the possibility of cri­minal investigation of Tl," said chief Pentagon spokesman Michael Burch. 
The Pentagon ban on Texas In­struments chips is the second time this year that the Defense Depart­ment has had a problem with a microchip supplier. 
National Semiconductor Corp. paid S1.7 million in fines and penalties in March after pleading guilty to 40 federal criminal charges that it had inadequately tested microchips sold to the Pentagon be­tween 1978 and 1981. 
The Defense Department originally proposed to ban National Semiconductor from doing any more business with the Pentagon, but dropped that idea after the com­pany took what the Pentagon called "significant corrective actions." 
Correction 

A news brief in yesterday's issue announced the recipients of three-and two-year scholar­ships. Because ofan editing error the scholarships were incor­rectly attributed. All awards were granted by the Army ROTC pro­gram. 

Treading water 
jason Teeter pedals his bicycle through the raged offthe coast. Hurricane Diane's winds are said water while his dog follows behind. Streets flooded to be blowing at up to 115 miles per hour. Story at yesterday in Wilmington, N.C., as Hurricane Diane left. 
,.. 

NOTRE DAME 







vs. MSU 
Go in Style 
Go 
jHertz( 
Airport 

Michiana Regional Airport 

Downtown 
710 No. Niles Ave. or Bring your student 1.0. and cash deposit 
234-3712 


232-5871 (800) 654-3131 
starting at 


-~ $}5:~ 
Weekends with

The#l way to rent a car~-­
Unlimited Mileage

Hertz rents Lincolns and other fine cars. 
. ··-~ 
1 
l 
The Observer 

pic Stadium. Canadian Olympic medalists Alwyn 
Morris, right, and Sylvie Bernier bold the bird's plat­form. 

OLD MILWAUKEE 
1I 2 BARREL KEG 
~ ~ 1. ~ • 
~w rv... : ..l4:'
CARLO ROSSI -~"' 'RUTHERFORD -t.; 
4 LITER ".!' Hill ;:-­
MACGREGOR 



SPUMANTE 
1.75 l. 750 Ml. 
....,.•


15412 ........ 254 DIIIEWAY ltOITH 1111 UJICOIJIWAY UST 1121 SO. IEIDAYE. 
I IIIlAWAD EWAlT IOIEWI 10.1111 SO.IEID 277-7176 295-6310 272-2522 233-1430 233-4103 
A 
NEW ITEMS! l....i HAAGEN / DAZS 
CREME 

LIQUEUR 


~1299 



CALVERT EXTRA 
1.75 l. 
999 


1.75 l. 






KING'S CELLAR 
PRICES GOOD THRU 9-1 5-84 
REGULAR or LIGHT 
LA. BUD 
CASE 24 CANS 
99 
CASE OF 24 CANS 
NEW ITEMS! 
LEROUX APPLE COUNTRY SCHNAPPS 
750 Ml. 

MR. BOSTON 
CHOCO MINT SCHNAPPS 
750 Ml. 
POPOV VODKA 
1.75 l. 
699 



GLENMORE GIN 
1.75 l. 
699 
CHRISTIAN BROTHERS BRANDY 
750 Ml. 


ZONIN ASTI 

Thursday, September 13, 1984 -page 5 

Pope John Paul II blesses Canadian fishermen, speaks against 'mere financial gain' 
Associated Press 
FI.ATROCK, Newfoundland · Pope John Paul II blessed the hard· pressed fishermen of this poor, rocky coast yesterday, and delivered a powerful indictment of modern economies that fail to put "people over things." 
Governments must change their economic systems and end chronic unemployment, "so that human needs he put before mere financial 
gain,"  the  pontiff  told  several  
thousand  people  huddled  in  this  
tiny, windswept village.  

He then stepped directly into an explosive Canadian political dispute by endorsing worker cooperatives and joint worker-management ownership of the fishing industry, taking the fishermen's side In a battle with the federal government over their economic future. 
"Thank you, Holy Father," a repre­sentative of the fishermen said after they took the papal blessing aboard a string of white-hulled fishing dories stretching across Flatrock cove. 
"Good fishing, safe passage and God's blessing," the pope said. 
John Paul, on the fourth day of a Canadian tour, chose to emphasize economic and family i!\sues In this Is­land province, where centuries of isolation have made "Newfies" a poor and close-knit community. 
The unemployment rate Is Canada's highest, usually double the national average, which is now 11 percent. The fishing industry, keystone ofthe island economy, has 


~~·~6" 
~ ~~w ~lP<CDlfll~ 
UJJ milllimliit~dl~ illThCCa 
Skydiving instruction and Paraplane Flight instruction 
219-586-3510 ......... 219-586-2663 Ho•• 
been especially hard-hit. 
One-third of the 600,000 island 
residents are Roman Catholic. 
At an outdoor Mass later yester­day in the provincial capital of St. John's, the pontiff praised those Roman Catholic couples who hew to church prohibitions against artifi· cial contraception and divorce. 
Newfoundland has the lowest 
divorce rate in Canada · I09 a year 
per I00,000 population, less than 
halfthe level ofany other province. 
At least 80,000 people attended at 
a site ncar the picturesque fishing 
community ofQuid! Vidi in a corner 
ofSt.John's. 
After flying in to Newfoundland from Montreal, the pontiff was driven directly to Flatrock, a village of 808 people 1 5 miles north of St. Johns, to give his benediction to the fishing fleet. 
He deplored the "human costs" of 
unemployment caused by changed 
conditions in the world economy, 
and said responsible authorities 
should find solutions, "including a 
restructuring of the economy." 
"The social doctrine ofthe church requires us to emphasize the primacy of the human person In the productive process, the primacy of people over things," declared the leader of more than 700 million Roman Catholics. 
He then turned to the situation In Newfoundland, where the outmoded village-and family-based fishing Industry is being undercut by more efficient foreign competltiton. 
***************** 
-tr -tr 
-tc MJAMI JEWflRY -tr
! 1906Miami St.. ! 
! TOPPRICE ! 
: RJNGS*DIAMONDS : -tc GOLD*SILVER -tr -tc WATCHES -tc 
-tr -tr
! Buy -!
Sell -Exchange 
-fl OPEN MONDAY· SATURDAY 9 · 6 -fl 
***************** 


..C(}Qowettg ~tt aQQ occogiottg'' 
Come in and Browse 
327 lincolnway 232-3354' 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND WINNERS!II 
Pleas~ pick up your infonnation packets at the Student Activities Office by Sept. 14. All unclaimed packets wUI be awarded to groups on the waiting list! 
ATTN: HAWAII CLUB MEMBERS 
MANDATORY meeting for those interested in joining. 
Thursday, Sept. 13 7:00p.m. LaFORTUNE LOBBY 
-

The Observer Thursday, September 13, 1984 -page 6 

Health Department suggests class and inspections for hall foodsales 
ByJOHN GORLA 
StaffReporter 
In light of last spring's foodsales controversy, St. Joseph's County Health Department has recom­mended that Notre Dame's depart­ment of environmental health and safety conduct a class in running foodsales. 
In the spring of 1984, The Observer contacted the local health department concerning complaints that foodsales on campus were in violation ofhealth codes. The health department then contacted Notre Dame's health and safety depart­ment and recommended that the employees should be taught proper procedures for food service. 
As a result, the Health and Safety department plans to present a one­day course for foodsales' managers and employees on Sept. 18. Com­mented Michael McCauslin, Notre Dame's environmental health-safety specialist, "This course is highly rec­ommended, but not mandatory." 
Student response to the plan has been encouraging so far. Noted McCauslin "The managers are ex­tremely receptive to dealing with the problems at hand and have shown interest in the program." 
The class will cover the procedures that are necessary to operate a safe and sanitary foodsales. Also, the department of health anlil safety will publish a list of how long. foods may be kept in storage with­out the danger ofspoilage. 
Both Robert Zerr, director of en­vironmental health and safety, and McCauslin will conduct future in­spections of foodsales. Also, the county health department has indi­cated that it may randomly inspect foodsales. These inspections are meant to point out possible or exist­ing problems at a foodsales so the manager can correct them. 


Series will highlight Papal policies 
Spcdal to The Oboerver 

This semester the Thomas More Society ofNotre Dame is sponsoring a lecture series entitled "John Paul II and the Catholic Vision." The series will consist of seven lectures de­signed to introduce several of the major themes ofJohn Paul II's pon­tificate. Each talk will focus on one or more recent addresses of the Pope. 
The purpose of the series is to present those elements ofthe Catho­lic vision which the Holy Father has emphasized as essential to the Church's vocation in the twentieth century. Last night, Father Daniel Jenky, director of University Mini­stries, opened the series with a talk entitled "Christ, the Eucharist and the Church." The talk outlined the Pope's understanding of how the mystery of the Eucharist builds the mystical body ofChrist. 
The next six lectures are sched­uled on Wednesday evenings throughout the semester. On Sept. 19, Father Francis Cafarelli, assistant vice president, will discuss John 
~-~~!'ti"Chips" Mic:hiana's Newest Night Spot ~ Than. S . I Import $100
t:::1..:LJ Nlg~t · pec•a Night 
-233-4858 Live Bands ... DJ's ... Dance Roor ... No Cover! "located: Take Eddy St. to Mish Av... First Stop light Tum Right 
1 
ROSARY 
In.8eparationfor the Crime ofAbortion 
TONIGHT-6:30 p.m. 
In &ont ofWashington Hall 

BE THERE!! 
BAKER's BIKE SHOP Inc. 

SC~Vf\~~ Bicycles 
Parts, Accessories, 
and Service for all Makes 
277·8866 
NOTE: Bicycle storage available from 11-8·84 to 4-30-85 Coli tor details 
In Roseland one half mile north of campus on U.S. 31 Closed Sunday and Monday 

Paul II's statement that Scripture should be read as "the personal teaching ofGod." 
The following week Bishop Crowley of South Bend will explore the Pope's reaffirmation ofthe sacra­ment ofreconciliation, a concern for which the Pope convened bishops around the world last year. This talk will present the understanding of freedom and morality which un­derlies the Pope's insistence upon the importance of Confession. 





SMC plans week for alcohol awareness 
By MARY LOUISE PADDEN 
News Staff 
Plans were finalized for an Alcohol Awareness Week at the Saint 
Mary's Planning Board last night. The week will not only emphasize 
the harmful effects of alcohol, but also the full extent of laws con· 
cerning consumption of alcohol, public intoxication, and drunk 
driving. Dates and a full schedule ofevents will be released as soon as 
possible. 
Neil King, better known as the picture man, was one oftwo guest 
speakers. His service will be available for any social events through 
the year and anyone interested is encouraged to contact him. 
Gail Martin, a specialist in the field of fundraising, presented an 
entire line ofproducts that may be purchased by groups organizing 
fundraising events. Her service also provides help in the planning, 
publicity, running, and money management of the event. Anyone 
having any questions or interest in receiving a catalogue should con­
tact Gail Martin at 291-3 720. 
Saint Mary's section representatives are encouraged to attend an 
orientation meeting this Sunday from 6 to 7 pm. Any questions about 
this meeting should be directed to Anne Marie Kollman at 5050. 
SObering Advice·; , cansavea~~~~' 
Think Before You Drink -~"" 
Before You Drive ..;~...­
Do you know someone who is dying lobe thin? 
Nearly one-third of the worlds population goes hungry because of poverty. And nearly 200/o of the young female population in the United States also starves -but by choice. Because they're dying to be thin. 
Anorexia NeiVosa. Bulimia. Two serious eating disorders. Illnesses that can affect people of all ages... and are most common among young women. 
Symptoms-although not all victims display all of them-can include abnormal weight loss. Refusal to eat, except for tiny por­tions. Binging. Vomiting. Abuse of laxatives. Denial of hunger. Excessive exercise. Depression. Preoccupation with food. Absent or irregular menstruation. 
And the effects can be life-long or even fatal. 
Now there is HOPE -Healthy Options for Problem Eaters. A therapeutic program developed by Memorial Hospital of South Bend. HOPE is designed to help those with eating disorders return to a normal, healthy lifestyle, because Anorexia and Bulimia can be cured. But early detection is vital. 
If you know someone who is a victim of an eating disorder, you can help. Register by September 14 for HOPEs next 10-week session which begins September 18. Call 284-7308 for further information. Because HOPE can help. 



HOPE 

Healthy Options for Problem Eaters An affil1ate of Memonal Hospital of South Bend m 
~i~~~_()__}_._Jl__t________________Th_u_rs-da-y,_se-pt-em-be_r_l3_,1_98_4__pa-ge-7 
Cuomo leaves Catholicism in the pew 
With the sudden conservative shift in the admittedly a controversial, emotionally clesiastical intrusion at all. Assuredly, if he is such a devout Catholic, he does not at mood of the country, many left-of-center charged issue. What Cuomo did, of course, Catholics are not the only ones who are the very least try to persuade his colleagues to politicians have felt themselves washed was to claim the relevance of the separation of opposed to abortion. Other faiths, even affilia­withdraw their support from abortion, much ashore and deserted now that the great liberal church and state issue as a justification for his tions have shared this opinion. In fact, the less lend his own full support to the side ofthe tide of the late sixties and early seventies has support of abortion. In other words, not to Catholic Church should deserve no more issue which he says so morally appalls him. receded. To weather the at least temporarily support abortion is, in his view, the same as credit than any other group that has been One is perhaps reminded by his attitude ofthe harsh climate to which they have been supporting an intrusion ofthe Church into the campaigning in the pro-life movement. many "moral" Germans who, although exposed, they have resorted to an Interesting affairs of the state. Moreover, abortion can be outlawed in a proclaiming their personal revulsion to tact by, as Walter Mondale and Geraldine Fer­But then he went onestep further. Realizing purely secular fashion. With the enactment of Nazism, would nevertheless not stand in Hit­raro did in the Democratic National Conven­that he wa.~ speaking in a time in which purely anti-abortion legislation, for instance, public­ler's way as he sent millions to the crematoria, tion, giving greater attention to previously secular reasons no longer had the same appeal sanctioned prayer can still be banned from the simply because they dared not break their neglected concerns such as national defense as they once had formerly, Cuomo threw asop schools, and not even the First Admendment-­"oath" to the Fuehrer. and 'family values.' to the Catholic elements of constituency by that hallowed document bequeathed to us 
Still, although now wearing different politi­insisting: "I am a governor, I am a Democrat, from the Most High (ThomasJefferson) --need To be fair to Cuomo, however, it must be 
cal clothes than those that were once in fa.~-but I am a Catholic first--my soul is more im­be violated. In fact, the abolition of abortion said that he is not the only Catholic who holds portant to me than my body." Thus, Cuomo can be done entirely with the gavel instead of this laissez faire view ofmorality. Many people was claiming that despite his political stance the cross, the latter of which Cuomo fears as claiming to be catholic, In fact, support abor­to the contrary, deep down inside, because of such an insidious danger. tion or at the very least condone it. If the
Chris Julka 
his Catholicism, he really was opposed to There is a major difference, after all, be­majority ofcatholics are this way, then Gover­abortion just like everybody else. tween enforcing one's personal concerns nor Cuomo's appeal to his religious affiliation, 
-
guest column The catch to this statement is that he through prohibitive measures and controlling ofcourse, will probably prove to be a shrewd couldn't possibly in his "conscience" impose someone else's mind, which is really the true and successful move, instead of a public rela­these views on anybody else. By inserting this essence of the church and state issue. Thus, tions blunder In which he contradicted him­
hion ten or fifteen years ago, those on the left disclaimer and thus "washing his hands," so to for Mario Cuomo to personally ratify and en­self trying to appea.'ie the vocal conservative arc trying to preserve the old line, although at speak, Cuomo was trying to fit into the "nco­force an anti-abortion law would be no more a elements of the '80's, which is the position times they've had to camouflage it with such Liberal" image--i.e., he was trying to be both violation of the constitution or an imposition taken here. awe-inspiring and utterly meaningless terms liberal (pro-abortion) and conservative of his religious beliefs on somebody else than But if Cuomo denies that one's moral beliefs as 'neo-Uberalism.' (religious) at the same time. Of course, little for him to be so presumptuous as to outlaw have a place in politics, then perhaps what he 
Convention firebrand and New York did it matter to him that he was in effect graft­murder or capital punishment, which in fact is is really saying is that Catholicism is perfectly Governor Mario Cuomo stands as an example ing together two contradictingpoints ofview. what this country has done for the most part, all right as long as one keeps it in the pews. of this new breed of politician, whose deeply Whether Cuomoinvokes his Catholicism or in its arrogance imposing the belief on its Maybe, in his mind, Catholicism is a wonder­Ingrained Democratic ethic he has shaped not, however, one must realize that the argu­citizens that murder, for instance, should not ful form of high-minded nonsense in which somewhat to accommodate the conservative ment which he proposes, although admittedly be committed. Granted, in doing so, a one can bow one's head solemnly during mass climate of the Reagan '80's. a classic one, is really not that tenable to begin "liberty" would, in a sense,' be restricted. But and show everyone else how holy one Is, but 
Responding to criticisms levelled against with. Put simply, the proposed abolition of this very necessity of imposing checks and which one should recognize as having no him by Catholic bishops on his pro-abortion abortion and the enjoinment of church and balances on certain liberties is why the consti­"practical" basis in the things that actually stance, Cuomo first dashed to one ofthe favor­state are issues which really are quite remote tution was drafted in the first place. matter. ite 'gools' in American politics that has from each other. In fact, ending the legaliza­Beyond this, one must finally return to ' protected many other politicians from what is tion of abortion need not entail any ec-Cuomo's second statement and wonder why, Cbrlsjulka is a freshman at Notre Dame. 

P.O.BoxQ 
managed victory in the Uberty Bowl last year, their fervor for a more worthy cause. Well, the philosophically and morally bankrupt. The
It's time for 
a national televisioh audience was treated to worthy cause is here. Church has declared repeatedly and unequiv­the spectacle of a football coach bellowing, On Thursday, September 13, at 8:00pm, the ocally that, "A Christian can never conform to shades of Clara Peller in a Wendy's ad, University will be addressed by one of the a law which is in itself immoral, and such is the

a successor 

"Where's the priest? Where's the priest?" most politically powerful Catholics in case of a law which would admit in principle America. The speech will concern the role of the liceity of abortion." (Declaration on Dear Editor: The spectacle should have ended two years the Catholic politician and the sponsor will be Procured Abortion, Nov. 18, 1974) 
In demonstrating the progress Notre ago, if only out of mercy to an overmatched our department oftheology. Dame's football program has made over the man. Faust should have been named the uni­With the recent media furor over the rela­Cuomo has indicated that he will reject past three years of his leadership, Gerry Faust versity's chief recruiter, or perhaps signed on tionship between religion and politics, Notre both the Church's teaching that abortion is an put It all together last Saturday: bad play calls, to give motivational speeches in Fr. Hes­Dame stands, once again, to receive extensive unspeakable crime and his moral duty to resist key fumbles and interceptions, even a too­burgh's next fund drive. The continued national attention. The foremost Catholic uni­immoral laws. Now, Notre Dame will be seen many-men-on-the-field penalty which sus­deterioration of NO's football program is versity hosts one of the foremost Catholic by all to place its imprimatur on this oppor­tained a Purdue touchdown drive. humillating for skilled players, degrading to a politicians to address one of the foremost is­tunistic abdication ofmoral responsibility. 
It's hard to think of any Faust rationale university which stresses excellence, and em­sues ofour day. Notre Dame has done It again! which would explain the debacle. After all, barrassing for students and alumni who must Can there be any doubt that by his appear­
the coach's troubles over the past three constantly explain why a football program so Every one on this campus should be ing on this campus, apologizing for his seasons were explained away in terms of rich in talent and tradition snatches defeats outraged at the fraud to be perpetrated in non-stand on abortion, Cuomo seeks having to coach someone else's players (the from the jaws ofvictory. Washington Hall on Thursday night. It is a legitimacy for himselfand for his party? 
likes of Bob Crable and Tony Hunter). At last, Despite church's teachings, it's come time scandal· of the first degree that Notre Dame Mario Cuomo is using Notre Dame. He is this was supposed to be "his" team. for the high priests of Notre Dame's adminis­should welcome with open arms this strident perpetrating a fraud on the American public tration to sever Faust's job support systems. foe ofthe rights ofthe innocent unborn. Notre and is scandalizing the faithful in monumental 
But Faust's rationales have rarely borne And someone other than Fr. Joyce should be Dame should not provide a forum for the proportions. There is no victory for Catholic much relation to what's happening on the assigned the task offinding a successor. Only propogation of such a w~!~_of Ca_~o-social teaching in his presence here. Rather, field. llle coach has spoken of improving ex­then will the university's proud athletic tradi­lic social responsibili_tr: -he stands for the proposition that political ecution after calling the quarterback sneaks tions stand a chance ofrecovery. success for a Catholic requires the surrender which, when unsuccessful, halted crucial joel Connelly Mario Cuomo has repeatedly taken the po­ofone's values: at least those values which are drives in two games against Penn State. He Notre Dame Class of'69 sition that he endorses the Supreme Court's not fashionable. talked about better attitude and intensity fol­extra-legal abortion ruling. Like his Demo­It is a lie that Notre Dame endorses lowing the 1981 Florida State game, lost in cratic colleague, Geraldine Ferraro, he jus­Cuomo's cowardice. Yet nowhere will you part because sideline confusion caused a tifies his endorsement of the slaughter of find the administration, much less the theol­

The killing
delay-of-game penalty. innocents with the tired sophism that he will ogy department, repudiating him. That ta.~k Even in victory, many Notre Dame not "impose" his personal Catholic beliefs on remains for the student body. This is the

must stop
graduates have cringed at the mixture of others. Yet he has no hesitation in signing "worthy cause." This Is Notre Dame's oppor­
pigskin and piety. "Ille excellent Chicago legislation requiring taxpayer funding ofabor­tunity to show its social conscience. THE KIL­SunTimes investigative piece by Phil Hersh Dear Editor: tion, thereby imposing his de facto anti­liNG MUST STOP! And we must repudiate documented how the coach had badgered This campus rose up in "righteous" indigna­Catholic beliefs on Catholic and non-Catholic these leaders who say, in effect, "Let the kil· people to pray on the sidelines when they tion last spring when the alcohol policy was pro-life taxpayers. ling go on." should have been working the sidelines black­announced. At that time many commentators The sophistical dichotomy that Cuomo Micbael Quinlan boards on pass coverage. When Faust lamened that the students could not arouse draws between morals and public policy is LawStudent 
The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief. . ... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager . ...... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller . . . . . . Maripat Horne The Observer 1s the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the 
Executive Ed1tor. . .. Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager .. .Anne Culligan Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
News Edlfor . . . ... Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager . ..... Jeff O'Neill reflect the poilc1es of the admmistration of e1ther mst1tut10n. The news is reported as 
News Editor . . . .. Dan McCullough Systems Manager. .. Kevin Williams accurately and as obtectlvely as poss1ble. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion 
Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski of a matonty of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column 
Sports Editor..... . .. Michael Sullivan present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the 
Viewpomt Editor . . . . . . . .. Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966

Features Editor . . . . Mary Healy Photo Editor. . . . . . Pete Laches commun1ty. and the tree express1on of varymg opmions on campus. through leiters. 
IS encouraged. 
I 

Thursday, September 13, 1984-page 8


Sports Briefs 
The Women's Cross-Country Team of 
The Notre Dame hockey team will hold an Notre Dame will travel to Hillsdale, Mich. this Saturday, September 
DRill 

organizational meeting today at 4:30 p.m. in the ACC football 1 5 to compett> against seven teams from Michigan and Indiana in the auditorium. All those interested in playing this season must attend. -Third Annual Hillsdale Invitational. Veteran Mike Glynn returns as The Obseroer head coach of the Irish this year, with assistance from senior Carrie 

DRIVING 
Rowe. -The Obseroer 
lSI

The Squash Club will hold a meeting today at 7 p.m. 
The Men's and Women's Basketball
in the New Orleans room of Lafortune. All members are required to teams will play each other in a softball game this Sunday, Septemberattend and bring a no fee. For more information, call Sean at 277­16, at 3:30p.m. across the street from Moreau. All are invited to 

CRIMIIIL
3953.-The Obseroer 

come cheer on their favorite players and coaches. -The Obseroer 
OFFENSE 

Michigan State/Notre Dame tickets arc Officials are needed for interhall football and soc­available on a first come, first served basis starting today at the Stu­cer. No previous officiating experience is required. If interested, dent Union Record Store in LaFortune. The cost is S12. Two tickets contact the NVA office at 2 39-6100. -The Obseroer 
It's no accident 

may be bought at a time. -The Obseroer 

Th< Ohserr•er Notre Dam< ottke. locatt·tl on th< th1rtl floor of LaFortune Student Centn. an..-pts classified advertising from<) a.m. until ·l p.m.. :\londay through friday. The Ohserr•er Saint :\<lary's offin:. located on tht· third floor of llaggar College: Center, an:c:pts dassifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until 5 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. l><:adlinc: fi>r nt:Xt·day classifkds is .~ p.m. All classifieds must he: prepaid, either in person or h1· mail. Charge is I 0 cents pc:r fin: charac·





Classifieds 
ters er dav. 
NOTICES ] 

Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (23&-6264) 
TYPING SERVICE 277-6045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE 

BRIDGE BRIDGE BRIDGE Who says there's nothing to do? Call Town & Country Bridge Center at 255­6613 for more information. 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
DO YOU KNOW SOMEONE WHO's DYING TO BE THIN? Anorexia nervosa and bulimia are serious eating disorders affecting hundreds of young women on the Noire Dame/St. Mary's campus. Many promising futures wiH be disrupted or destroyed by these disorders unless they are treated. But now there is HOPE­Healthy Options for Problem Eat8fS, the Memorial Hoepital Program for compre­hensive treatment of these disorders. In­dividual and group therapy is available, with a ,_10 weekgroup beginning &-18­
84. For more information, contact Dr. Daniel Rybidci (formerly of NO Psych. Serv.) at Memorial Hospital 284-7308. Special rates for ND-SMC cornmuni1y. FULLY PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL. Don't let these disorders ruin your future or that of one's you love ... CALL 284­7308, MEMORIAL HOSPITAL for HOPE. 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
THE BADLANDS 
ANDREA· WHAT ARE YOU DOING??? 
IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVERN­IIENT7 GET THE FACTS TODAY! CALL 1-312-742-1142, EXT. n111. 
NEED 20 PEOPLE FOR WOOD MFG. CO.. OPERATORS & ASSEMBLERS. WEEKDAYS 4:00 -8:30. $4.00 P/HR. CONTACT WAYNE MILLER. DAYTON CONTINENTAL CORP. 52275 US 31 N. 277-Q711 
SUZIEFEST PART 11-BE THERE! 
SKI DOERS ARE GODS 
GUITAR LESSONS: learn jazz, blues, rock n roll, and/or folk and country styles at a low price. CALL ROB: 232-6555. 
ATIENTION! OMBUDSMAN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING: tonight 7:00 PM ROOM 20 LaFortune Student Center. Everyone is invited to attend. 
PUNK'N'PIZZA..PUNK'N'PIZZA: WHY? •ITO BECOME A IIU.ER OF THE PROGRESSIVE IIUSIC CLUB b)TO IIEET OLD AND NEW IIEIIBERS 
c)TO GET YOUR WEEKEND OFF TO A SWINGIN' START. WHEN? FRIDAY NIGHT, 8-t pm. WHERE? KEENAN HALL PARTY ROOII. COST? FREE TO MEMBERS AND THOSE WHO SIGN UP AT THE DOOR CLUB DUES? $5 FOR THE YEAR. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST LOST Woman's gold watch-­Timex. Please~ you find it or have found it cai1Kimat4114. 
LOST: 9/5 BLUE AND WHITE PERFUME ATOMIZER SOMEWHERE BETWEEN SENIOR BAR AND PASOUERILLA EAST. HIGH SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL4233. REWARD. THANK YOU. 
LOST: LAST WEEK A THICK,WIDE GOLD BRACELET IF FOUND PLEASE CALL PAULA AT EXT. 2169 
Lost-Friday, Aug.31st-Denim jacket. Maybe in car that gave us a ride from Grotto to 31? Cell284-4452 
Found: Dorner keys in Indy. Am. 351 and car keys. Call Matt 232-6697. 
·······················,·········································
LOST: 9/5 BLUE AND WHITE PERFUME ATOMIZER SOMEWHERE BETWEEN SENIOR BAR AND PASOUERILLA EAST. HIGH SEN­TIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL4233. REWARD. THANK YOU. 
LOST: Keys on green key chain. Probably on 1st floor Morrissey or between Lyons and Morrissey on Friday, 9n. Room on keys: 140. Pleasecall4169. 
LOST: PAIR OF GLASSES -BROWN FRAMES. LOST SOMEWHERE BE­TWEEN KEENAN & LEWIS. IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO 238 LEWIS OR CALL2179ANDASK FOR ALINE. 
LOST: Keyring with the words "Hy-Vee" on it. Hfound, call283-2202. 
LOST: Gold chain-linked bracelet. If found, please call Kathleen at 284-5457. 
LOST: ONE GOLD RING. ONE DOLLAR GOLD PIECE IN SETTING.LOST FR1.7. VERY SENTIMENTAL, AND PARENTS WILL KILL! PLEASE CALL 284-4331 IF FOUND. THANKS. 
LOST GOLD ADD-A-BEAD NECKLACE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DEBBIE 284­
5062 
LOST: A Great Football Tradition. If found, please return to the Knute Rockne Memorial Stadium. 
FOR RENT 
LUXURY 2 BEDROOM APT TO SHARE: TENNIS, SAUNA, EXERCISE ROOM, INC. FIREPLACE, LAKEVIEW, DISH­WASHER, HEAT, & MORE! 256-6676 
Female interested in living off campus? Space available at Campus View. Call 272-Q734. 
Housing available for grad. stud. Fully fur­nished house. 100/mo. 288-2464 evenings 
WANTED 
SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (23&­
6264) . 
NEEDED: TWO GA TICKETS FOR MIAMI GAME: CALL 283-3884 
WANTED; FULL-TIME BABYSITIER AT MY HOME FOR SIX MO. BABY AND OCC. 4 YR. OLD. OWN TRANSPORTA­TION TO TOWN AND COUNTRY AREA. SALARIED. REFERENCES. AFTER 6PM CALL; 28&-9193. // PERSO// A· 99// 3.8// 0 II 0913 URBAN PLUNGE PHOTOS NEEDED • IF YOU TOOK PHOTOS ON YOUR PLUNGE, THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS WANTS TO MAKE COPIES OF THEMI LEAVE YOUR PICTURES WITH THE FRONT DESK -THEY WILL BE RETURNED! 

Desperately Need Ride to Cols. Ohio Sept. 14 Call Beth SMC-5252 
Desperately Need Ride to Cols. Ohio Sept. 14 Call Beth SMC-5252 
Desperately Need Ride to Cols. Ohio Sept. 14 Call Beth SMC-5252 
Need ride to Indy this weekend TERRY 1705 
.............................. 
Looking for people and ride to see Cyndi Lauper in Chicago this Sunday at 8 p.m. Call Kevin at 2727. 
Thirsty girls need a bar for our house. Call 233-9415. 
GERMAN TYPIST TO TRANSPOSE GERMAN INDEX FROM CARDS TO COMPUTER. 3 MONTHS STEADY WORK. PHONE 288-92n. 
RIDE NEEDED TO MSU FOR GAME.FRI. OR SAT.WILL SHARE EX· PENSES AND PROV IDE BEVER· AGE.JOE2361 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO OR NW SUBURB FRIDAY 2n-4543 
HELP!!! Who is going to the MSU game? Need ride to Detroit area !his Fri. Sept.14. Can leave after 11 :OOem. Call Laura at 284-4335 
STUDENT WORKERS NEEDED Male or Femaiefor Saint Mary's Dining Hall. Work includes some weekend hours. Please apply in person to SMC Dining Hall Office 
Need Riders to Columbus for weekend of Sept. 14 to 16. Leave Friday at noon. Return on Sunday. Call Jeff &1232-0904. 
FOR SALE 
LOFT LOFT LOFT LOFT LOFT CALL STEVE 2658. 
TICKETS 
I NEED 2-4 TIX FOR THE MISSOURI GAME!!'!!! CALL MARIPAT AT 2n-2581 OR239-7471. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need 6 GA's and 4 STUD's for Air Force 
Oct. 13. Call Jeff at 232-0904. 
....................... 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Desperately need COLORADO TICKET call JIM 3467 THANKS 
WANT TO MAKE MONEY? Then sell us your Colorado tickets! We are desperate and will pay well!! Help us! PLEASE !II Cell283-2083/2084 Ask for Bob, Larry, Sid, or Oscar It's something we've all got to do. 
NEED 5 PENNSTATE TIX CALL DAN 4057 
NEEDED 3 GA AIR FORCE. CALL JAMIE 284-5476 
I HAVE COLORADO STUD. TIX. WANT TO TRADE FOR MIAMI STUD. TIX OR 
G.A.S WILL ALSO TRADE FOR N.D.­MISSOURI TIX CALL2n-7570!!!!! 
NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S TO BUY •• OR WILL TRADE FOR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL JANET AT 4376 
Need two Colorado tix; call Dave 1700 or Bob1646 
HELP! I desperately need 2 Colorado GA tix. Please call Kelly-4308. 
need 2 Colorado GA's Maura x2885 
need 2 Colorado GA's Brian x2793 
for sale; ONE SNIOR STUDENT PACK­AGE. BEST OFFER ACCEPTED. CALL KIMAT291-2957 
Need two Miami GA's. Call Dan: 23&­7666 Days: 233-6254 Nights. 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA OR STUD TIX. I HAVE 2 PENN STATE AND 2 AIR FORCE GA'S TO TRADE. JIM 1n2 
PLEASE HELP! NEED 2 MIAMI STU OR GA TICKS 4 MY 2 SISTERS, 2397558 ON SU,TU,TH 6:3Q-12:30,0R 2833467, GERRY 
I have an extra motel room in south bend for COLO game Call1735 
DESPERATELY NEED 2GA'S & 1 STU­DENT TIX FOR SOUTH CAROLINA. CALL DEBBIE2194. 
I NEED MICH ST GAs.272-6306 
.Need COLORADO tix. Call Jay at 1655. 
Sell your Miami GA's before prices plum­met! Call John at 2267 or 2n4 
NEED 2 COLORADO GA'S $$$ CALL ROBAT2516 
NEED 4 COLORADO TIX!! HELP CALL BRIAN AT 1688. 
Need 1 or 2 GA's for Colorado Theresa 2858 
NEEI;lED ... 2 tickets for Penn State game. Call Shannon -284-4164 
Need 3 Colorado GA's Paul3597 
I need two (2) GA's for both Miami and Penn State Please call2442 or 1585 
FOR SALE: Two tix for the NO vs Colorado Game. Call 233-2163 or 234­
sne. 

DESPERATELY NEED 2 GA TIX FOR 
S.C. GAME CALL MIKE 2834 
MY RICH GRANDMA NEEDS 5 MIS­SOURifl 2 COLORADO GA'S BEFORE SHE DIES. CALL HANK AT 1573 
NEED TIX FOR PENN ST. CALL JOHN 1023 
Desperately need 1 So. Carolina Stu. ticket please call SMC 5264 
HELP!!! NEED 2 STUD. TIX OR GA FOR COLORADO. WILL TRADE FOR PENN. ST. STUD. OR FOR S.C. STUD. KEVIN 2n-3954. 
I NEED MIAMI GA'S. CALL BRIAN 3677. 
Need 2 GA's and 1 student tix for Miami. Will pay BIG BUCKS! Michelle 4081 
PERSONALS 
Your sole advisor always was yourself; You never listened to no one else. You were the one who ignored the signs, Dancing on a fine line, cutting it fine. 
-Aala 
MYLONGLOSTBROTHERHASBEEN FOUND. HE WALKED ALL THE WAY BACK FROM VIETNAM, AND HIS ONLY WISH IS TO SEE A NOTRE DAilE FOOTBAU GAME. If you have a student ticket or a G.A. for the Miami game please call Sarah at 1333. Think of it as an act of patriotism, selling your ticket to a vet. 
URBAN PLUNGE PHOTOS NEEDED • IF YOU TOOK PHOTOS ON YOUR PLUNGE, THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS WANTS TO MAKE COPIES OF THEMI LEAVE YOUR PICTURES WITH THE FRONT DESK • THEY WILL BE RETURNED! 
!!!I I NEED MIAMI TICKETS !!!!!!! ANNE 2822 
Marc Ramirez-Madder Than Mad In '84 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
CAVANAUGH HALL PrM&nta: 

Irish football highlights (when we used to 
win) This week's feature is the year 1973. 
A national championship, a Sugar Bowl 
victory and an undefeated year. Watch all 
of the action this Friday night at 7:30 in the 
basement. Bring a friend because it's 
FREEl 
He was 25 years old. He combed his hair 
like James Dean. He was very fastidious. 
People who littered bothered him. She 
was 15. She took music lessons and 
could twirl a baton. She wasn't very 
popular at school. For a while they lived 
together in a treehouse. 

The BADLANDS 
When will this all end? I wish I knew. 
.................... 

GO,GO RONNIE GO!!! COLLEGE RE­PUBLICAN MEETING THURS. 9/13 RM.204 O'SHAG 6:00 MEMBERS & NON-MEMBERS WELCOME 
STEVE SPRIGG: YOUR MUSIC SOUNDS GREAT FROM UP ON THE FOURTH FLOOR. 
AKRON, AKRON, AKRON, Oh. 
is where, is where I wanna go. 
Will you, will you take me there? 
any weekend, I don't care. 
If.you can, well just call me, 
my name's John, 2-4-8-3. 
THANKS A KAZILLION. 
HEY YOU! Yeah, you, I still need Miami tix and I need them now. Okay, not now, but before the game, and that's all the concessions you're gonna get outta me. So baa pal and sell me yours. Call John at 2495. 
Purdue bua trip T-ahlrta are still available, and still only $5. To place an or­der, call2489 or 2467. 
I would like to help pay for your trip to Akron or ClevMnd anytime this semes­ter. Call John at2483. 
Hat and Tie 
is coming .. 
SENIOR CLASS PARTY I Thuraclay, Sept. 13 9p.m.-ta.m. Mr. D'a Canning Factory 1516 N.lronwood (acrou from McDonald'a) OJ • DancingI Munchle Bar, Drink Speciale Sanlora, Be there Thuraclayl 

Growing up is so weird... 
Kathleen -don't forget: Purple Rain on Saturday! 
THE LETTERMEN, FOUR FRESHMEN, GLENN MILLER AND THE LARCH. 
IS THERE A DIRECT LINK BETWEEN THE "SEDUCTRESS" GOING TO PURDUE NOW INSTEAD OF NOTRE DAME AND THE SCORE OF THE FOOTBALL GAME? ZEUS 
A NIGHT AT THE CLUB Saturday, Sept. 15, 1984 from 10.2. Come dance to the latest in dance music. Party to be in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
DEAR PAUL, I HOPE YOUR'RE RESTED UP. THIS WEEKEND WILL BE A FUN ONE. BUFFALO WILL NEVER BE THE SAME, NEITHER WILL YOU. ITS BEEN 3 MONTHS SINCE I LAST SAWYOU,ANDWENEEDTOMAKEUP SOME TIME!I! THANKS FOR EVERY­THING. YOUR THE GREATEST AND I LOVE YOU FOR IT. MUCH LOVE, YOUR UTILE GIRL FROM KY. 
MICHIGAN ST./NOTRE DAME TICK­ETS ARE AVAILABLE ON A FIRST COME FIRST SERVE BASIS STARTING TODAY AT 10a.m AT THE RECORD STORE in LaFORTUNE ONLY 12 DOL­LARS EACH TO HAVE A GREAT TIME AND SUPPORT THE TEAM. 
COMING SOON: kANGAROO PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS SUZIEFEST PART II! WATCH FOR IT! BE THERE! 
Greg, AMY wants to try, she'll make you change. 
STUDENT WORKERS NEEDED Male or female for Saint Mary's Dining Hall. Work includes some weekend hours. Please apply in person toSMC Dining Hall Office 
ATIENTION: Ray and Pete want all girls to know that room 36 Pangborn is the party center of the Universe. 
Patty Juckniess is 19 today,look out for her tonite.Have a great one,Luv Kath 
Chapeau at Cravata... 
Be there. 
Hey SHEILA, when are we going to have dinner? You better call me. 2483. 
Can a Ram Jam a Man in a Can with Jam? 
3When the cupboard is bare, You have to go shopping. 
ATIENTION SENIORS Available from 9/14 to 9/21 are applica­tions for SENIOR FORMAL COMMIT­TEES. Aplicalions may be picked up at either LaFortune or Haggar. They are due by 2:00 9/21. 
So. Cal. Club Volleyball/Picnic 4:00 Fri. Call Carrie at 2666 for info. 
CARRIE BURKE: a brief but epic per­sonal in the spirit of DTB: Roses are red, Violets are blue: Sorry this is late, And since nothing rhymes with purple, may frozen dairy products abound so as to fill your entire being with happiness. HAPPY BIRTHDAY! 
Ara you u bothered by the walla In North Dining Hall •• we are? Do you fondly recall the olden days when you could see your friends seated in E, even when you went through D line? Are you overcome by these claustrophobic condi­tions? Why not do something about it? Address your complaints to: Deb Garrard, Manager, North Dining Hall and put them in the Feedback boxes located in the lobbies. Lettuce tell them what we think. 
.................... Hey Ruggers, Thanks for the thought. it really meant a lot. Special thanks to Goebs, Schneids, Gary, Jerry, Greg, Phil and also Cathy and Ellen. Thanx, 
Tadpole 
ANDY WOLF, do you realize Jhat your co­worker spends half of her waking hours lusting after you? 
Marya Better watch that walk! People are notic­ing. Men are asking questions. Workout, indeed! What kind of workout does the weekend hold? (STS) 
-s 
Peggy, 
Help! I need advice, I need a friend! What can you recommend?? What a RA (pronounced "raw") WOMAN!! 
-selected disciples 
GOD'S GIFT:OH STOP IT!!YOU SLAY ME-BIG TIME!HOW INCREDIBLY RUDE! 
JUGGLER I 
JUGGLER! 
JUGGLER! 
Bring submissions to 309 O'Shag by Sept 21 
y y y DARBY'S PLACE y y y 
OPENS TONIGHT!! Located in the basement of La Fortune. Serving soda, coffee. and snacks to satisfy the cravings of late-night studiers andpartiers. Open Sunday-Thursday, 10 pm-2am. 
..................................... 
Katy-You gave it your all, your bast and that makes you better than the rest. You're 1, it's true, the very reason that I LOVE YOU! 

The Observer 

Irish tri-captain Rich Herdegen 
GO 

HAWAIIAN 
(Bring your grass skirt!!) 


DANCE 
Fieldhouse Mall Friday, September 14th 9 p.m. -1 a.m. 
REFRESHMENTS OJ 


SENIORS: 
Today is the last day to sign up for your SeniorPortrait. 
Sign up in the dining halls from 4:45 -6:45 or call the DOME office, 239-7524. 
~********************************~ ~ ~ ~ SENIORS ~ 
~ ~ 
~ DON'T MISS iC ~ TIPS ON WRITING ~ ~ AN EFFECTIVE ~ ~ LAWSCHOOL ~ ~ PERSONAL STATEMENT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
• TWODAYWORKSHOPBY • 
• PROFESSOR THOMAS MARULLO ~ 
• Thursday, September 13 • -tc Thursday, September 20 • ~ 7 p.m. Library Auditorium ~ 
• SPONSOREDBY • : THE NO PRE LAW SOCIETY : 

~********************************;,... 
Soccer 
continuedfrom page 12 
leads by his actions because you can see he's always hustling." 
Grace also is impressed by the way his captains inspire the team. Herdegen is the silent inspiration for the squad, while Driano is the vocal leader. 
"He and Dom are reciprocals of each other, which is good," Grace says. "Rich leads more by example. He leads by showing the players what they should do. You need someone to lead by example. 
"Rich shows the kids how it should be done and the class that has to be shown when we play. He gets beat up a lot because he is such a tal­ent." 
Herdegen says that he has ac­cepted his position as captain, and he feels comfortable as a silent leader. 
"I just set an example on the field," he says. "When I became a captain, I said one of the prime reasons was to set an example and just lead the team on the field. I leave the other aspects of being a captain to Steve Chang and Dominick offthe field." 
Herdegen makes his presence known to both his teammates and 
Thursday, September 13, 1984 -page 9 
his opponents by his play, and there 
arc some identifying characteristics 
of the English forward by which 
many f;ms have come to know him. 
The most obvious is his number­
nine jersey, but the most unique 
identifying feature is his pair of 
shoes -both are black, but one has a 
blue stripe on the side, and the other 
has a white stripe. 
"Everyone asks me (about that)," 
he says. "I lost a shoe at the Mon­
mouth State game (last year). I've 
got a couple pairs ofshoes and I just 
started wearing the white and the 
blue ones, and it turned into a lucky 
thing all of a sudden. I've got new 
pairs of shoes, but I still like the old 
white and blue ones." 
Another thing one may notice about Herdegen is the way his teammates respectfully call him "Old Man." The name is not a refer­ence to his experience or his age (he is 21 ). but rather a bit of teasing about the British mannerisms that surface in his speech. 
"Whc.·n I first came here, I had a very strong London accent," Her­degen admits, "and I guess I said 'old man' too much, and it sort ofcaught me right back in the face. I don't mind that; it's all right." 
Herdegen has several goals for tht· ncar future involving his soccer career. The first is for the Irish to gain a bid in the NCAA tournament. 

,..  is seeking o Student  
:  Representative to the  
:  Academic Council. 

* Interested students : should submit a short : letter of application 
:
* 
~ 
* ~ 
: : 


"Ev~r since I got ht·re, I think the 
main goal is, for me, to make the 
NCAA tournament," he says. 
After Herdegen, a business major, 
graduates in May, he says he will 
return to England. 
"I look forward to playing next 
year -I hope," he says. ''I'm .going 
back to England to try to play profes­
sionally there. 
"Originally,! had planned to make 
a future out here," Herdegen ex­
plains, "but I miss England too 
much. I grew up there. I'm giving 
soccer two years; for that, I'll settle 
down anywhere. If not, I'll go into 
business. It (playing professional 
soccer) has been a goal since I was a 
child." 
In the immediate future, however, 
there are soccer games to play for 
Notre Dame, and Herdegen will be 
leading the scoring attack for the 
Irish. 
Look out, Kevin Lovejoy; Old Man 
is watching you. 


Tennis 
continuedfrom page 12 
doubles matches, a problem that 
plagued them last sea•mn. 
"Our ladies arc better 
groundstrokers," said Killeen. "They 
like to stay back. Doubles play re­
quires a different psychology and a 
different kind of stroke, and our 
players haw to be able to learn to do 
that," He did add, however, that 
the first two doubles teams seemed 
to look a little better this year but 
that he would have to walt and see 
how they fared in match play. 
Killeen maintains a slightly differ­
ent attitude towards the meaning of 
winning and success. 
"It is always fun to win, but that Is 
not everything. Ifyour only goal was 
to win all, all you would have to do is 
schedule people you could beat. We 
normally schedule a lot ofDivision I, 
scholarship-awarding schools. We 
normally do not beat them, but the 
ladies would rather do that and not 
have as good a record and get the 
practice and the tough competition 
rather than playing the schools that 
are in our division and being 22-0 
every year." 
This philosophy seems to be working for the Belles as they have placed tenth in the NAJA nationals for the past two yean while also claiming victory in every small col­lege dual match In which they have played during that span. 
"I have been pretty pleased over the last couple of years, and I have reason to be optimistic for this year," said Killeen. "We hope to be able to continue building what we consider a good team." 
Practicing the philosophy that he preaches, Killeen hao; quite a season scheduled for his players. After tonight's match at Chicago, the Belles have a day of practice before heading to Anderson for a morning match with Anderson College and then to Indianapolis for an afternoon duel with Western Kentucky. 


Hockey 
continuedfrom page 12 
in the ACC, 1984-85 co-captains ­senior Brent Chapman and junior Bob Thebeau -will lead the team through captains' practices and dryland workouts beginning Sept. 17. 
With hockey now back ao; a varsity sport, Smith says his Irish leers arc eagerly awaiting the chance to prove that hockey is for real at Notre Dame. 
"What we have this season is my idea of a schedule," notes Smith. "We will be challenged each time and this is what we need. It should certainly provide interesting, excit­ing hockey." 
Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski has announced that once again ND-SMC students will be admitted free with their student ID's. Faculty and staff will be charged J 1.00, while regular adult admission will be $2.00. 

-: to the Dean's office. 229 Nieuwland. by * Friday. Sept. 14. Open to all College of  :*  
: :  Science students. For more info contact Dean's office.  ~ !  
*  *  

***********************************~ 
NIGHT 
•Prizes *Free Drafts 
Raffle Every 20 minutes 
8tmJ~~ Presents ••• ~~ LITTLE KINGS 
Thursday Sept. 13 
9p.m. 

~\t'
mirrors hats t-shirts 

The Observer Thursday, September 13, 1984-page 10 

Defense 
continuedfrom page 12 
depleted secondary. 

Haywood began the 1983 season 
as a returning starter at flanker, but a 
torn thigh muscle, suffered during a 
preseason workout, severely ham­
pered his progress. He played in 
only two games in '83 before ag­
gravation of the injury ended his 
season. 

Francisco had an outstanding 
freshman season as a tailback, finish­
ing third on the team in rushing. His 
switch was made primarily because 
of his desire to better contribute to the team, which he will certainly have a chance to do. 
These players are great athletes and have had little difficulty in making this change. Some patience is needed, however,to let them learn all the ins and outs of their respective positions. 
Considering the athletic abilities and talents which these players pos­sess, it should not take long for them to perform to the level at which they are capable. Hopefully some valuable lessons were learned and some experience gained in In­dianapolis last Saturday. If so, there will be a much different outcome this week against Michigan State. 
Score's mark eclipsed 


Gooden sets strikeout record 
Associated Press in the sixth inning. That gave him to tie the record and II to break it. 
246 for the season, one more than He was averaging I0.96 strikeouts 
NEW YORK -.Dwight Gooden of Score achieved in his rookie year, per nine innings, a major-league the New York Mets became 1955, with the Cleveland Indians. single-season record pace. The all­baseball's all-time rookie strikeout The NL mark of227, set by Grover time record for strikeout ratio is king last night, br,eaking Herb Cleveland Alexander ofthe Philadel­10.71 per nine innings by Sam Score's 29-year-old single-season phia Phillies in 1911, fell last Friday McDowell of Cleveland in 1965. record. night as Gooden threw a one-hitter In addition to breaking the rookie 
Gooden, who broke the National to beat the Chicago Cubs 10-0, strik­strikeout mark, Gooden set a club League mark in his previous outing, ing out 11. 
record by striking out 10 or more passed Score with his 11th strikeout Gooden, at 19 the youngest player 
batters in his 14th game. Tom Seaver of the game against Pittsburgh, get­in the majors, came into Wednesday 
had I 0 or more strikeouts in 13 ting Marvell Wynne on a 2-2 fastball night's game needing I 0 strikeouts games in 1971 with the Mets . 
.... 
• 

For the time of your life in college, come to one of our free One Hour Evelyn Wood Seminars. 
We'll show you the way to have more free time by cutting your study time in half. While you raise your grade point There's a lot more to college than textbooks, tests, and term papers. And Evelyn Wood is the way to enjoy it 
Now's the time to make your move. Bring a friend and join us at our seminar. Ifs only an hour. Ifs free. And ifs definitely not a waste of time. 
Free Seminar Schedule LOQATION: CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION (DIRECTLY ACROSS FROM MORRIS INN ON NOTRE DAME AVE_) -ROOM 200 
THURSDAY 9/13 1pm, 3pm, & 5pm ~EvelynWood"~"college Programs
SATURDAY 9/15 11am & 1pm 
Choose the day and time most convenient for you. Reservations not necessary. For more information call 1 (800) 44 7-READ . 




'JI['4CJt.cllC3l~--------------------------------------·Th--u.r.sd•a•y•'•Se•p•t•e•m•b•e•r•l•3•'•19_8_4
___.P_ag•e---ll 

Bloom County 


... /N FACT, ACEHTlliN IJIINAM£fl CONTtSTANT llff'EAf(S TO HAVE A MOI?£... SHAU. WE SllY..Pf?.O­NOtiNC!IJ HINEY THflN NIITIJI?G OR/&/NflU.Y PIWV!(l€1?. 81/T FAR 8£ ITFOR ME W Sf'l?£11/? 
W~&IIR, TACKY, NAY. MllL/C/01/S 
f?IJMOR. 
/


Tank McNamara 
The Far Side Gary Larson Berke Breathed 

Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

Campus 
•2 
p.m.-Lecture, "A New Prospective and a New Approach to Industrial Process Control," Prof. Coleman Brosilow, Dept. ofChemical Engineering, Case Western Reserve University, Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•2:15 
p.m. -Overview, "A Brief Introduction to Computing Facilities and Services," Especially for Incoming Faculty, All Faculty Are Welcome, Tour at 3p.m. 

•
3:30-4:30p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Lotus, Second Session, Computing Center/Math Building, All Are Welcome, Free. 

•4 
p.m.-Seminar, "Proximity Effects in Radiation less Transitions," Prof. Edward Urn, Dept of Chemistry, Wayne State, Sponsored by Conference Theatre Radiation Laboratory. 

•4:
15 · 6 p.m. -Awards Ceremony, Naval ROTC Fall Awards Ceremonies, Public Invited. 

•6 
p.m. -Meeting, College Republican Club Meeting, Members & Non-Members Are Welcome, Room 204 O'Shaughnessy. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Foreign Study Programs In­formation Evening, lnnsbruck, Austria Program, U­brary Lounge. 

•7 
p.m.-Workshop, Writing Workshop For Law School Personal Statements, Professor Thomas Marullo, Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by ND Pre-Law Society. 

•7 
· 9 p.m. .;_ Preseotadoo!Recepdoo, Accountancy and Finance Seniors, General Mills, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Free. 

•7, 
9:15and 11:30p.m.-FUm, "The Man With The Golden Gun," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.00. 

•8 
& 10 p.m.-Movies, "Oils Well That Ends Well" and "Horsefeathers," 3 Stooges & Marx Bros., Knights ofColumbus Hall, Sponsored by Knights of Columbus, 51 For Both (Members Free). 

•8 
· 10 p.m. -Preseotadoo!Recepdoo, Finance/Management Seniors and MBA's, CON­OCO, Inc., Senior Alumni Club (Senior Bar), Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Free. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Catholic in Politics," Gov. Mario Cuomo, New York, Washington Hall, Sponsored by Theology Dept. Will also be shown on closed-circuit television at the CCE. 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 37 Navy man: 2 Cupid abbr. 3 Mollo of music 
1 Undergo 
38 First name in
chemical 4 Grimalkin

films
change 5 Gypsy

39 Arab headcord 
6 Steals 
6-de menthe 10 "If 1-41 Takes the sun 7 Oleaginous 
40 Hold at bay 
million..." 42 Something 8 Campaigner tor 

14 Desi-
often raised 
short15 Disturbance 44 Like Abe 9 Kind of battery 

16 Gravel ridges 45 Rex or Donna 10 Certain
17 Jefferson 46 Bad actors periodicalsestate 
47 Flowering 11 Adjutant: abbr. 
19 Mil. sch. letters shrub 12 Baltic Sea
50 Restrain
20 "There -time native
51 Position of a
to... " 

13 Sandarac tree 
golf ball 
21 Like some meat 18 Roman
54 Insult area 
22 Picture tube 
statesman 23 Cuckoo 55 Band leaders 
58 Kind of rubber 25 Weathercock 24 Crustacean 24 Lot 
59 Timber wolf 60 -gin fizz 25 Poesy
26 "-Real" 
61 Cotton-tipped 26 Last supper 29 Earth surfaces 
stick 
27 "-to Live" 32 Rust 
62 Pitcher 
33 Role call 28 Eel's kin 
63 A Keaton 
answer 29 Extend a
DOWN
34 Muddy subscription ~A Fragrant b11lm 1 Branches 30 Din 
31 Falls 47 Snakes 33 King of Judea 48 Clutch and 35 Endure scratch 40 Potter's wheel 49 Emanation 
feature 50 Ice unit 41 Shell 51 Mesa's relative 43 "-mlr bist 52 Golf club 
du..." 53 Existence 44 Injure 56 Quarrel 46 Placate 57 -alai 
Wednesday's Solution 


•••••1  2)r;w~§~  ••• and GRILL  ••••••••i  
t THURSDAY  FRIDAY  

LITTLE KINGS EXTRAVAGANZA 6 • 9 HAPPY HOUR 50' 14 oz. Drafts 
Great food and brew to relax and enjoyRaffle every 20 minutes MSU PEP RALLYWin hats, mirrors, t-shirts, free drafts drink specials to cheer9 -close DJ FOOD DANCING ND to Victory 
COMING UP SATURDAY: MSU on the BIG SCREEN Scavenger Hunt -open to all -Cash prizes Willie Nelson giveaway 

© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
9/13/84

All Rights Reserved 
TONIGHT Eng.aud. 

7:00 9:15 
11:30 
$1 


Tomorrow Niglt_t 
and 
Saturday Night 


Terms 
of 


Endearment 

12:00
7:00 9:~ 

... 
~-----­
~ ~~-~----~ 1t!i Th__ .. .. ..



_______________________________________________ u.rs•d•a•y-,S·e•p-te.mb.er I3•,•1•9•8•4--•p•a•g•e•1 2 

The 1984-85 season marks tbe return ofvarsity hockey toNotre Dame, aftera yearon tbe club level. Ed Domansky examines bow tbe change will affect 
Competing on varsity level in '84, hockey team faces tough schedule 
By ED DOMANSKY lesser talented teams is minimal challenge of the three tourna­
Sports Writer compared to playing tight, close­ments. 
checking games. "All three teams are respected 
The Notre Dame Hockey team "Last year looks good in print, hockey schools," says Smith. 
may have spent the 1983-84 but many games were so In Alaska, Notre Dame will bat­
season competing on the club lopsided that we were putting tle San Diego, Northern Arizona, 
level, but the 1984-85 campaign other schools in a bad position," Air Force and Fairbanks. 
will offer something different. It adds Smith. "You would rather To meet the challenge of the 
will mark the return of varsity more competitive slate, the Irish
lose by one or two goals and have hockey to the Golden Dome. a good game, than beat someone will return to action with most of Official approval, raising by ten or l 5 goals." last season's team still intact. hockey back to the varsity status Gone from the new 31-game Notre Dame lost just four players it had enjoyed during its first 14 schedule are such Central States to graduation and one (Mark seasons, came from the Faculty Benning) transferred to another
Collegiate Hockey League push­Board in control ofathletics at its as Illinois State, Illinois, school (Harvard).
overs Feb. 29th meeting. Northwestern and Saint Norbert. addition, tryouts
In when 

For 16th-year coach Charles begin Oct. I, ten freshmen 
'Lefty' Smith and his team, the In their places, the now inde­recruits from high schools 
move back to varsity level will in­pendent Notre Dame squad will around the country will be 
troduce a more highly competi­add the likes ofAir Force, Prince­working to secure a spot on the 
tive schedule. ton, Anchorage, Fairbanks and a. Irish roster. 
"We're extremely pleased to trio ofcompetitive tournaments. "Even without scholarships to 
be back as a varsity sport," says Featured Irish tournament ap­offer and from recruiting only by 
Smith. "The status of hockey on pearances will come at the mail and telephone, the 
the club level across the nation is Phoenix Mutual Tournament in prospects are much better than I 
just not conducive for Notre Hartford, Conn., the Lake Forest ever anticipated," states Smith. 
Dame. It will be much better Tournament and the Indepen­"We should have even more 
playing as a varsity independent." dent Invitational in Anchorage, depth than a year ago." 
The 23-5-1 overall record Alaska. In preparation for the season 
compiled by the Irish last season The Phoenix Mutual will put opener against Penn State Nov. 2 
was quite impressive, but the the Irish up-against Yale, Colgate 
satisfaction derived from and Northern Michigan, and is 
see HOCKEY, page 9

thoroughly beating substantially expected to provide the biggest 
ND soccer's silent leader 

Herdegen chases scoring record 
ByPHILWOLF Pat Szanto -where the last two years Grace believes the tri-captain AssistantSports Editor I've pretty much been up there on definitely can generate the offense my own. We had goal-makers like Notre Dame needs. He cites two 
When Rich Herdegen came to Steve Chang, Chris Telk and Tom ways that the center forward can be Notre Dame three years ago, he had Daley." effective. plans to get a good education and Despite Herdegen's apparent lack "He's an excellent striker," Grace play a lot of soccer, but he had no of confidence; he does, in fact, have says. "He has a real knack for going idea how well things were going to an excellent chance ofrewriting the to goal, and that obviously has to be turn out for him. record books with his name on top. our primary wish for him. Secondly 
Now, Herdegen, a senior from This season, the prolific scorer would be for him to distract, dis­Somerset, England, is a tri-captain of .already has knocked in four goals for orient, confuse the defense to make the Notre Dame soccer team, and he eight points. He now needs 43 openings for his teammates. We've is within striking distance of the all­points to beat Lovejoy's record, and talked to him at great length about time Irish leading scorer's crown. In he still has 18 games in which to do that because there will be a lot of 
his first three seasons at Notre it. teams that just figure, 'We stop Her­Dame, the 5-11, I70-pound forward Of course, Herdegen will have to degen, we stop Notre Dame."' 
generated 41 goals and 21 assists for get the ball in the net if he wants to Also very important to the team is 103 points, which puts him second set a new record. In the last two Herdegen's role as captain. This is on the scoring list behind Kevin games, Herdegen has had six beauti­his second year in the spot, which he Lovejoy, who had 153 points in his ful shots rebound off the goal posts shares this season with sweeper 
career. or the crossbar. Dominick Driano and the injured "Everyone keeps telling me about "I've always been unlucky with Steve Chang. it," Herdegen says about surpassing that," he admits. "I had the same "He's an inspiring captain by his 
Lovejoy's mark. "It's possible, but I thing my sophomore year at the actions, not by his words," junior sort of doubt it because we're Rochester Tournament. I just Tom Daley says of Herdegen. "He playing a tougher schedule this year couldn't put the ball in the goal. It's (than last year, when Herdegen like (the ball) is magnetic." 
registered 42 points). Also, we have Despite Herdegen's affinity for see SOCCER, page 9 
goal-scorers this year -Dave Miles, goal posts, Irish head coach Dennis 

Secondary gets aid from 1983 offense 
ByJERRY MELIA junior, moves to the secondary from 
Sports Writer the flanker position. His duties are at 
right cornerback where he backs up 

Although it seemed the Irish had Pat Ballage. Coming off a leg injury 
some difficulties last Saturday from last season, Haywood 
against Purdue, defensive coordina­welcomes the change over to the 
tor and secondary coach Andy defense. 
Christoff is confident that these "The defense is not a complex sys­
problems can be overcome in time. tem," says Haywood. "My offensive 
This year's secondary is, for tire experiences have helped me adapt 
most part, you~g and inexperi­to cornerback because I can read 
enced. The unit is consists primarily what routes the receives can run 
of sophomores, with one senior and from the way they are lined up." 
two juniors. The 1984 Irish second­Christoffbelieves that the success 
ary is also unique in that two players of opposing quarterbacks will not 
have moved from the offense, which last for long. "Once these ·players 
in itself is enough to cause some gain experience, they will become 
problems. more aggressive," says the Irish sec­
Both Hiawatha Francisco and ondary coach. 
Mike Haywood have been recruited Like Haywood, Francisco is also 
by the defense and will play a major pleased with his change to pass 
role guarding against the pass this defense. "I enjoy the secondary be­
year. cause it gives me the opportunity to 
Francisco made the switch from learn different phases of the game," 
tailback to safety midway through says Francisco. 
spring drills. This 5-10, 192-pound Although these two players have 
sophomore was an offensive power­had a great deal ofsuccess on the of­
house during his high school years at fensive side, Christoff and the other 
Moeller. His 3, 164 yard career rush­Irish coaches felt that the changes 
ing total remains a school record. had to be made to strengthen the 
Last season, Fransisco was the top 
backup to Allen Pinkett at tailback 
see DEFENSE, page 10

following the injury to Greg Bell. Haywood, a 5-1 1 , 179-pound 

Hiawatha Francisco Mike Haywood 

Saint Mary's tennis opens '84 season today 
By MARK B.JOHNSON but untested, freshman Susie Craig Saint Mary's Sports Editor who adds strength to the team at number four singles and number 
Beginning their quest for a third three doubles. consecutive Top Ten NAJA national Returning from a year of studies finish, Coach John Killeen leads his abroad is junior, number five singles young Saint Mary's tennis team west player Kim Kaegi who contributes this afternoon to open its'fall season depth to the squad with a year ofex­against the University of Illinois at perience. Also returning to the team Chicago at 4 p.m. after an absence is senior Renee 
Counting Chicago among their Yung who dons a Belles' uniform for victories last season, the Belles are the first time since her freshman optimistic about their chances year to play at number six singles tonight, as well as for the rest of the and number two doubles. season. Counting on experience to bal­
"We have some players returning ance out the number three doubles who played very good tennis last team, Killeen has teamed senior year," said Killeen. "Our first three Karie Casey, who boasts three years players are all back, so we are of varsity play and a District 21 looking forward to a good season." championship, with the inexperi­
Leading Killeen's ladies will be enced Craig. senior, number-one singles player As newcomers to the team, sopho· Debra Laverie, who is competing in more Kim Drahota and freshmen her fourth season after capturing a Kate McDevitt Megan Heller and District 21 championship last year. Kate McDevitt are expected to be Teaming with Laverie for number valuable additions who will be con­one doubles is sophomore Mary tributing by mid-season once they Carol Hall, who in her second year get a little more playing experience. on the squad holds the number two Killeen, in his third year at Saint singles spot. Mary's, commented that the team 
Sophomore Caroline Zern, who should be able to hold its own in earned a District 21 championship singles play as in the past, but be­as a freshman, finds herself solidly cause oftheir differing playing styles positioned as the number three they may have difficulty winning singles player and anchoring the number two doubles team. A pleas­
see TENNIS, page 9 ant surprisefor the Belles is talented, 








