Heifer project -page 8 

VOl. XIX, NO. .24 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1984 
TheQbserver/MargieKersten
A human sawhorse 
As junior Chris Pornasl firmly braces a wooden House," to be put on by the Notre Dame/~aint Mary's beam, Saint Mary's student Suzanne Dunlap saws Theatre on Oct. 5-6 and 11-13. The play, directed by away at it with a carpenter's flair. Student volunteers Frederic Syburg, is set in "in an unnamedgovernment are helping to build the set for the play "The Hot institution." 


Alcohol policy to cover 0-C events 
By ANNE GALLAGHER by John Goldrick, associate vice­establishment is wllling to state in StaffReporter president for residence life and writing that he claims all responsi­delivered to all hall presidents and bility. 
The Dillon Hall Screw-Your­rectors. "The problem arises in that some Roommate/Booze Cruise, which "It Is a new piece of paper we owners may not wish to assume re­was scheduled for this · past issued," noted Father Francis sponsibility," said Goldrick. He said, weekend, was cancelled in response Cafarelli, associate vice president for however, that activities that tend to to a published statement by the ad­student services. "But the logic of promote responsible drinking will ministration stating that such events these guidelines is in the spirit and probably exist in the same capacity were not in keeping with the Univer­intent of the alcohol policy." as before as long as students are able sity's lew alcohol policy. Indiana state law holds anyone to provide proper identification for 
"I was told it was common sense providing a minor with alcohol alcohol. that the policy should follow off­liable for any accident that happens "The guidelines don't mean you campus," said Bernie Pelkgrino, Dil­to the minor. Students, halls and stu­may not have activities; they do lon hall president. dent organizations are deemed mean that when you do have these 
The statement clarifies the agents of the University and are re­events, these are the guidelines you University's position on student or­sponsible, along with the University, must follow," he said. ganizations and halls sponsoring off­for underage drinkers. The respon­Pelligrino said the alcohol policy campus events at which alcohol is slblity only shifts if the 
see 0-C events, page 5
served. It was issued last Wednesday owner/manager of the off-campus 

Smaller-scale bust of Rockne stolen 
pedestal after taking the bust
By MARGARET FOSMOE 
"sometime prior to 5:58 a.m." Mon­
StaffReporter 
day, said Terry. One note reads: "Here's a buck for 
Rockne's gone again. your troubles," according to Terry.
Three days after the missing Terry would not release the con­
bronze bust of legendary Notre tents of the second note.
Dame football coach Knute Rockne Members of the Rockne memorial 
was mysteriously returned at a pep staff were responsible for the instal­
rally, a small replica of the statue has' lation of the smaller bust after the
vanished from Rockne Memorial. 
original theft last spring, according
The smaller bust had been bolted to Terry. Security did not have a key 
to the pedestal in the foyer of to the lock, he said.
Rockne Memorial since the original Meanwhile, the original Rockne
bust disappeared last spring. bust, which surfaced at Friday Director of Security Glenn Terry night's pep rally, was turned over to believes Monday night's heist may Rockne Memorial officials yester­have been "an inside job," because a day. Terry did not know whether the lock had to be removed before the bust would be reinstated In the foyer figure was taken. "They must have since the replica has disappeared. had a key, because the lock was not Notre Dame Security wlll con­broken," said Terry. tinue to investigate the case, said The culprits left a jack-o-lantern Terry. "I don't think this is anything and two handwritten notes on the more than a prank," he said. 
Little Sibs weekend may be back this year 
ByLORIZAPF elude a home-state pizza party, a News Staff sports marathon, performances by various Notre Dame clubs, a guest This year's Little Sibs Weekend §peaker, a picnic at the senior' bar Committee believes the weekend and a movie or theme event. The has a good chance ofbeing approved tentative dates are April 19-21. by the Campus Life Council in spite These dates coincide with a student of the problems encountered in its play, giving the siblings another en­debut weekend two years ago. tertainment alternative. Closing the 
The weekend provides the weekend will be a "little sib" Mass. chance for younger siblings ofNotre Transportation and housing were Dame students to visit and enjoy the two additional problems in the past. campus. After the first Little Sibs In attempts to correct these difficul­Weekend, the council rejected plans ties, there will be a committee chair­· for future weekends when they dis­man designated to work exclusively covered many of the "little sibs" with the alumni clubs to arrange were going to bars and parties with transportation to the campus. This their older brothers and sisters. The system will include a non­issue will be brought up again at refundable deposit and a reasonable tonight's council meeting, however. price in order to accommodate all 
Joanne Madden, organizer of the interested siblings. Little Sibs Weekend, attributes the Housing will be provided in the problems of the past to the fact that dorms and a registration system will it was the first time the event was be followed. The rector and dorm planned. Disorganization resulted in chairman ofevery hall will know ex­a lack of events to keep the siblings actly how many people are staying busy, and the budget was over­there. Notre Dame student..'i will reg-drawn. 
This year the events planned in-see SIBLINGS, page 3 
ND gradually adjusts to women since coed move in 1972 
I.J'ditor's Note: This is the third ofa tered Badin and Walsh Halls for the Father James T. Burtchaell, then gral and very attractive part of Notre the Ivy League schools' examples of five-part series focusing on the 1972-73 school year. University Provost, said coeduca­Dame life," Hesburgh said. three years before and admit women question of sex discrimination at University President Father tion would "provide more day-to­Geography, history, service pro­as undergraduates. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Theodore Hesburgh voiced the day companionship for men and grams, activities and relationships At that time Notre Dame dis­7'oday's article looks at the history question the community was asking women students. FriendshJps will be have always made Saint Mary's Col­cussed a merger with Saint Mary's. ofcoeducatim1 and the lighter side Itself: "How will a coed Notre Dame more frequent, more realistic· and lege a part of Notre Dame. The. College at first agreed, but then of the university experience, social affect us men, change our lives, alter more humanized." Therefore, the official arrival of un­decided to remain a separate wo­life. Tomorrow's story will study our familiar pattern? ... And what of Hesburgh noted that women had dergraduate women in 1972 was no men's school, although ¥ the time the possibility ofdiscrimination in the women themselves? How will always been a part of the Notre great' change and adjustment for the women's colleges all over the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's their lives as women be shaped by University, according to Hesburgh. country were failing because men's academics. the experience ofcoming to ND?" In 1918, women students were schools were opening their doors to 
The traditionally male university admitted to summer school at Notre women. By ELIZABETH FLOR must critically assess all assump­Dame. In the 1950's, women When women officially entered
Q d
Senior StaffReporter tions, focusing on "dialogue, dis­became a part of the graduate undergraduate life at Notre Dame, cernment and openness to change," school. Notre Dame began a co­the staff was experienced and many
Sex Discrimination
In the Notre Dame Report of Dec. Hesburgh said. "The context for exchange program with Saint Mary's of the women were partially ad­I, 1971, it was announced that wo­considering friendship between Dame community, whether it was in 1965, allowing students to take justed, as many previous Saint men undergraduates would be ad­men and women will become the mothers visiting their sons or courses at either school. Also that Mary's students transferred to Notre mitted to the University at the start larger matter of what is at stake be­hometown girls on campus for foot­year, the first women teachers Dame to finish their degrees. of the next academic year. One tween persons, whether male or ball games. There was also an in­joined the Notre Dame faculty. Hesburgh hoped the relationship hundred twenty-five freshmen and female, black or white, American or creasing influx of Saint Mary's girls In 1972, Notre Dame made the 240 women transfer students en-Vietnamese." on campus and in classes, "an inte-final move when it decided to follow see COED, page 4 
r 
t The Observer Wednesday, September 26, 1984 -page 2 
' 
r 
r 
I 
r 
I ! 
f 


In Brief 

Notre Da.tnesCollege ofArts and Letters wm receive a 5500,000 grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation for its Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, according to Pro­fessor Timothy O'Meara, University provost. Half the grant will fund faculty development over the next three years. The other half, ap­plied to the Institute's endowment, will require a three-to-one match of gifts to the University, which will establish a S 1 million endowment for faculty development. "This one award gives tremen­dous momentum to the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts," said Michael Loux, dean ofthe College ofArts and Letters. "As match­ing funds are raised, it ensures a substantial program offaculty devel­opment for the future."-The Observer 
Of Interest 

"Understanding Eating Problems" is the title of a panel discussion to take place tonight from 7 to 8:30 in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's. Panel members include Dr. Daniel Rybicki, clinical psychologist and director of HOPE (Healthy Op­tions for Problem Eaters) at Memorial Hospital in South Bend; Molly Sullivan, director ofthe alcohol education office at Saint Mary's; and Nancy Schoeneman, assistant director of counseling and career de­velopment at the College. The presentation is sponsored by Saint Mary's counseling and career development center. -The Observer 
Former Notre Dame all-Americanand Na­tional Football League star Alan Page will return to the campus to­morrow for a talk, "The Law: Professional Sports, Academics, Labor Relations and Drugs." The noon lecture in Room 101 of the Law School is open to the public, and will be followed by a question period. Sponsors of the talk are the Black American Law Students of Notre Dame, the Sports and Entertainment Law Program, and the Alumni Association. -The Observer 
The Semester Around the World program will hold an informational meeting tonight at 7 in Room 348 Madeleva Hall. All interested Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are invited to attend. -The Observer 
The German Club is holding a meeting in the lobby ofLaFortune tonight at 7:30. All students interested in the club are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
A bus trip to the Art Institute of Chicago on Thursday, Nov. I, will provide an opportunity to view a special exhibition of 13 7 Impressionist paintings from American and European collec­tions, including works from the Jeu de Paume in Paris. The show, titled "A Day in the Country: Impressionism and the French Landscape," brings together major works by Monet, Renoir, Cezanne, Gauguin, Seurat, van Gogh, and other important 19th­century French painters in what promises to be one of the most significant Impressionist exhibitions ofthe 20th century. The cost of the NO trip will be $15, which includes round-trip bus fare, admis­sion to the exhibition, and a special audio-guided tour. The bus will leave from the CCE at 9 a.m. and return at approximately 8 p.m. Anyone wishing to reserve a place on the trip should see Annie Eis· land in 129 O'Shaughnessy between 8 a.m. and noon. All reserva­tions must be paid for by Sept. 28. There will be no refunds. Spaces on the bus are limited so students are urged to sign up immediately. The trip will be sponsored by the department of art, art history and design. -The Observer 

Weather 
Mostly cloudy and cool today, with the high in the upper 50s and lower 60s. Partly cloudy and cool tonight, with the low in the low to mid 40s. A 50 per­cent chance of rain and cool temperatures to­morrow, with the high in the mid 60s. --AP 


Today's Issue was produced by:
The ~Obser'ver-

Design Editor ................. Guillermo Suarez Design Assistant.................. Claire Kneuer Layout Staff................................... Andy Saal 
lbe Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is KarenVuono 

published Monday through Friday and 

Typesetters ..................................... Vic Sciulli on home football Saturdays, except 
Mary Ellen Harrington during exam and vacation periods. lbe 
News Editor................................ Mary Healy Observer is published by the students of 
Copy Editor .......................... Keith Harrison 
the University of Notre Dame and Salnt 

Sports Copy Editor··········-··········· Phil Wolf 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be 

Features Copy Editor ................... Ed Nolan 
purchased for S30 per year ( 120 per se· 

Features Layout......................... Bob Henke 
mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. 

ND Day Editor ............................. Earl Baker 
Box Q, Noue Dame, indiana 46556. 

SMC Day Editor .................... Carolyn Kelly 
lbe Observer Is a member of The 

Ad Deslgn .................... AnnaMarle Furleigh
Associated Press. All reproduction Jobn O'Connor 

rights are reserved. 

Photographer ........................... Vic Guarino 

The 5 cornerstones of student life 
For decades, the taverns on Five Corners have been an important aspect of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's social life. They have been places where old friends could hang out together and new friends could become acquainted. 
While the murder of Corby Tavern owner Harold Rowley Jr. over the summer nearly put an end to one of the traditional centers of comradery and often inebria­tion, an eleventh-hour decision by Rowley's widow, Rose, opened the bar before the first home football weekend. Back taxes were quickly paid, the interior was swept and straightened out, and the doors ofall the taverns opened in time for the thirsty Notre Dame fans Friday night. 
Old alumni reminisced and first-time patrons were initiated into the familiar atmosphere of the Five Cor­ners bars, an off-campus tradition. The pennants on the walls of Corby's announced who the Fighting Irish 
Dan McCullough 
News Editor 

here. Must be the company. 
Who's that? Who just walked in? Hey! Whassup? Have a beer. Bartender, get my friend here a beer. No, wait, get him one of those. 
You know, I never see that girl on campus. The only time I see her is in here. Jeez, she must ltve here.· Last round! Go get two more. One for the walk. Good­night, drive safely! Back to the dormitory, the chilled night air makes a brisk walk ideal right now. The darkness makes it hard 
to see the roll of the ground as you walk across Green Field. Stumbling a little, you try to maintain control as you walk by the security gate. Can they really bust you on sight if you appear drunk? The dorm -a little hard to get the door un­locked -I hope the priest doesn't hear me fooling around out here and decide to let me in. 
Don't wake the roommate when you go in the room. Crawl up into the loft with­out breaking anything, like your back. 
Five Corners is almost as good a study break as one of 

those soda and cookies things in LaFortune Student Center. No, wait, it's better. It can, however, be dangerous to your health iftaken in doses over a long period of time. Everybody knows somebody who has been there when it has been raided. One or two have the honor of having been arrested there by South Bend's finest. 
Does alcohol play such a central role in your life that your social life has to revolve around it? No, not neces­sarily. Then why is Five Corners such a popular student meeting place? Good question. Maybe because it's fun? Because friends like to get together there with mini­mum hassle to enjoy the company of others in a warm and inviting atmosphere -without having to worry about being a little too loud and obnoxious, or how many people are in the room or whether a rule is being broken or not. It's a place where adults can meet and talk and act and be treated like adults. 
Perhaps the proposed renovations to the new Stu­dent Center should include some well-worn leather, stools and the pungent smell of stale beer. And most definitely some students. 
Doesn't matter, though. There's always the Corners. 
would be facing this year on the football field while the bartenders at all the taverns greeted patrons with the familiar, "What'D ya have?" 
Carved into the bars and on the wooden beams that hold up the sturdy but pock­marked ceilings are the honor rolls of regular cus­tomers long since graduated. The deep, dark grooves spell out the generations who have passed through Five Cor­ners, the Grand Central Sta­tion of the Notre Dame community social life. 
Though it is nearly a mile from campus, Five Corners 

is where Notre Dame and Saint Mary's meet. It is the crossroads between the in­stability ofyouth and the confident, self-assuredness of young adulthood -an adulthood which will meet friends in bars and buy drinks for friendly strangers. Five Corners is a sanctuary for the student who has put too much time into studying for that midterm or who has had enough of the rules which plague incessantly the 
need of the individual to have fun and offer him the ability to bail out for a few hours. 
Corby's, Nickie's, The Commons, Bridget McGuire's and even Lee's are the last refuge for the hopelessly doomed -who have had enough of the dormitory life and who are going to explode if that rector asks to turn down the radio just one more time or who has two papers due next week and one quiz tomorrow and there are only 24 hours in a day and-­
Ashort walk down Eddy Street and sanctuary. 
Hide out from the world. Share a joke, the same joke you heard in the dorm two days ago is really funny in 
***************** 
:  MJAMI JEWELRY  :  
iC  1906Miami 3..  iC  
iC  iC  
:  TOPPRICE  :  
~  RINGS*DIAMONDS  :  
:;  GOLD*SILVER  iC  

ie  WATCHES  iC  
iC  iC  
iC  Buy ­Sell ­Exchange  iC  
iC  OPENMONDAY-SATURDAY9·6  :  
:  289 -6440  iC  

****************: 


TYPING 
.._Term Papers 
*Resumes •Letters 
•Manuscripts 

•Word Processing 
CaD Chris At: 
234-8997 

University Ministry 
offers 

Pre-Cana Programs 
which meet diocesan regulations across the country 
PMI-Host Couple 
Pre-Cana Program Weekend 
4 sessions November 9-10 $15 February 1-2 
March 8-9 April 12-13 $65 
..1

Call University Ministry 
OFFICE OF 
i.J'MR51TY

Badin Office: 239-5242 MNSTRY 
Wednesday, September 26, 1984 -page 3
The Observer 

APPhoto 
Wounded by bomb 
Michael Milroy, 43,from Washington, D.C., was wounded in the explosion oftheAmerican EmbassyAnnex in Beirut last Thursday. Milroy was one ofthefour Amerctans wounded wbo wereflown to Israel and hospitalizedattbe Tel Habomer Medical Center nearTel Aviv. Milroy is a civilian contract employee at the U.S. Embassy. 

THIS OLDE HOUSE PIZZERIA lrPUB Welcome Back This Wednesday, Sunday, and Monday we wUI deliver a Medium 16" pizza with 1 topping for S695 Each additional item is NEW HOURS $1.004-12 p.m. Mon.-Sun. 277-4519 CALL BEFORE 11:30 p.m. FOR DELIVERY EXPIRES 9 I 30I84  

Hey Mate! Ihe=<Jbsener_ needs you. The news department Is accepting applications for Assistant News Editor For more Information contact Dan, Sarah or Anne at 238·5313. Application• are due Thuraday at 5 p.m.  



Owners of locations of off-campus events must agree to responsibility 
By SCOTT BEARBY 
News Staff 
Under the new alcohol policy, owners of the location of an off­campus hall-sponsored activity must take responsibility or the event can­not take place, according to john Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life. 
Goldrick, at yesterday's Hall Presi­dent's Council meeting, along with Father Francis Cafarelli, associate vice president for student services and Sister Jean Lenz, associate vice president for student affairs, fielded questions on the newly Imple­mented alcohol policy and the ul­timate responsibility for such events. 
With this agreement the halls and Notre Dame would not be liable. Al­though there was some skepticism about owners taking such responsi­bility, Dr. Goldrick said he "saw no reason why they wouldn't agree." 
It was stressed, however, that hall presidents should be completely aware of what they are undertaking. If a mishap should take place, the president must have made an effort to avoid it or responsibility could be placed back on the hall. Cafarelli said "the processes oflaw seeks responsi­bility," so there must be proof of an effort to uphold the law should an infraction take place. 
All three encouraged hall presi­dents to be aware ofpossible infrac­tions at off-campus events and to be mindful ofhall events as well. 
Goldrick was questioned about students bringing alcohol in by car. Security has been stopping some In­dividuals carrying alcohol, accor­ding to one hall president. 
Goldrick said a letter has been sent to security in order to change this procedure. He asked that guards use good judgment in deciding whe-

Siblings 
continued from page 1 
ister their "little sibs" in their own dorm and the one they will be staying in Ifthe two do not coincide. 
The new alcohol policy does not pose any additional problems on the weekend, according to Madden. The trip will be restricted to high school age students to alleviate entertain­ment problems. 
The student's time will be filled with scheduled events leaving little free time. The students will have to be trusted because there is no way ther or not the amount being brought in is excessive. 
Tom Lezynski, co-chairman for the Notre Dame United Way Fund Drive, told the council the student goal for this year's drive is Sl2,500. United Way funds 35 organizations, including the Big Brothers/Big Sisters program. Lezynski said this year halls may be able to donate all oftheir funds to a particular agency. The drive will run the week of Oct. 8. 
to watch every visitor, according to Madden. 
To insure a strong relationship be­tween the committee and the ad­ministration, Madden will be talking to John Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life, to remove any problems before the vote is taken. 
In addition to the work of Mad­den, help from the alumni clubs and the sophomore class will play key roles In building this year's program. Many of the members of the sopho­more class came to the campus as "little sibs" and Jim Domagalski, class president, will be working closely with the committee in its at­tempts to strengthen past weaknes­ses. 

EARN OVER $1000 A MONTH AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP ENGINEERING FUTURE 
How _many corporations would be willing to pay you over SlOOO " month during your junior and senior years just so you'd join their company after graduatfon? Under a special Navy program we're doing just that. It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate­College Program. And under It, you'll not only get great pay durlngyourJunlor and senior years, but after graduation you'll receive a year of valuable graduate-level training that Is not available from any other employer. 
If you are a junior or senior majoring-In math, engineering or physical science, find out more today. And letyoun:areer pay off while still in college. For more lnformlitton, call the Naval Management Programs Office at: CAll TOLL FREE 1 • 800 • 382 • 9782 Navy Reprhentative will be on campus Oct. 10 & 11 at the Placement Ot+k:e 
Attention All Sophomores interested in 1985-1986 Arts and Letters London Program 
Wednesday, September 26, 1984 
7:30 p.m., Library Auditorium 
Program faculty, staff, and former students 
will be present to explain curriculum, calendar 
and selection procedures. All sophomores 
interested in the program are urged to attend. 
A question and answer session will follow the 
formal presentation. Students can also add 
their names to the mailing list by signing up in 
133 O'Shaughnessy. 

The Observer Wednesday, September 26, 1984 -page 4 


Coed 
continuedfrom page I 
with Saint Mary's would never be al­tered by women at Notre Dame. He hoped any foolish rivalries between the women of the two schools would nev.er begin, but that friendships would flourish between the campuses. 
In a · recent · discussion with Burtchaell, now a professor oftheol­ogy, Hesburgh said hostility existed from the beginning between the two 
groups of women. In contrast, he thought the relationship between Notre Dame men and women was never strained. 
Burtchaell believed coeducation 
was "the best thing that has hap­
pened to Notre Dame in years." 
Burtchaell said the first women at 
Notre Dame were concerned with 
academics and would have been in­
sulted if anyone suggested they 
were at Notre Dame for any other 
reason, including the social life. 
The Advisory Committee on Coeducation allowed no favoritism, such as special accomodations, ac­cording to Burtchaell. They did however, allow special arrange­ments such as the installation of laundry machines in women's halls. 
Freshman Marlen Zloza from Saint Mary's toured Badin Hall in 1972 and when asked what she thought of it as a women's hall, she said, "Ugh! I'd never want to live there, it's a pit!" 
After the announcement that Walsh and Badin were to be the first two women's dorms, men from both halls protested strongly and criticized the administration for ig­noring a study which termed the halls unsuitable for women, accor­ding to a 1972 Obseroer article. 
SisterJohn Miriam Jones, assistant to the provost, liked the facilities. She said "the girls who come here will pick up the Notre Dame flavor fast. They (the dorms) ~e not overc feminized and add a women's per­sonal touch." 
Since the early years of coeducation the number of under­graduate women at Notre Dame has increased so that eight of Notre Dame's 23 dorms are women's halls. 
Before Notre Dame went coed, drinking was not allowed in public rooms because of Indiana state law. Approximately 10 years ago, however, drinking became permissi­ble in private rooms. It gradually developed into the main focus of campus social life, according to Jones. 
Because the drinking age was then 18 in Michigan, students were taking great risks driving back to campus at night. Jones said the administration preferred that the students "learn to drink" on campus where they were safe and people cared about them. 
While the philosophy worked for three to four years, Jones said, stu­dents began abusing this generosity. 
In the late 1970's, Sister Jean Lenz, then rector ofFarley Hall, said some rectors asked for the establishment 

~ry's 
BACK! 
Beginning Monday in The Observer 




I 

A 


It's fourth and goal and you've got the ball. Make your move to the first team. The National Security Agency offers you an all·pro career opportunity in the following fields: 
ELECTJ'ONIC ENGINEERING There systems analysis and design, scientific language(s) and can plan on many are opportunities in a variety of applications programming, data base years of continued professional research and development projects management systems, operating systems, growth. ranging from individual equipments to computer networking/security, and THEREWARDSATNSANSAoHe~ 
very complex interactive systems graphics. a salary and benefit program that's involving large numbers of micro­MATHEMATICS You'll work on truly competitive with private industry. processorf, minicomputers and diverse agency problems applying a There are assignments for those who computer gr,phics. Professional growth variety of mathematical disciplines. wish to travel and abundant good living 
is enhanced through interaction with Specific assignments might include in the Baltimore-Washington area for 
highly experienced NSA professionals solving communications-related those who wish to stay close to home. and through contacts in the industrial 
problems, performing long-range Countless cultural, historical, and academic worlds. Facilities for mathematical research or evaluating recreational and educational opportu­engineering analysis and design new techniques for communications nities are just minutes away from NSA's 
automation are among the best 
security. convenient suburban location. available. 
LINGUISTS NSA offers a wide range of To find out more about NSA career COMPUTER SCIENCE At NSA you'll challenging assignments for Slavic, opportunities, schedule an interview discover one of the largest computer Near Eastern and Asian language through your college placement office. installations in the world with almost majors involving translation, transcription For additional information on the every major vendor of computer and analysis/reporting. Newly-hired National Security Agency, write to equipment represented. NSA careers linguists can count on receiving National Security Agency, Attn: M322, provide mixtures of such disciplines as advanced training in their primary Fort George G. Mead8. Maryland 20755. 

On Campus· Recruiting Date: Oct. 8, 1984 
ofa party rooms, as parties were be­men's party. coming concentrated in students' Last year, in an attempt to reduce rooms and the hallways, quickly be­the "party-hopping" syndrome, the coming uncontrollable. Although Hall President's Council began a some rectors were against this idea, policy requiring men to charge wo­farseeing difficulties, others, espe­men $1 at their parties. But the low cially in the men's dorm's, wanted attendance at women's parties this alternative. remained. 
Lenz said the "party room" "Women are essentially creative," emergedso rectors could have more Jones said. If they come up with control over large parties, enforcing some creative ideas, she believes party guidelines. that men will go along with them. 
Most upperclassmen today are Both Student Activities and the familiar with campus social life Hall President's Council are working before the alcohol policy, which for to provide alternatives. Two events both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's which have been successful this year women often consisted in traveling are the Freshmen Monte Carlo Night in groups from party to party and ;. and the Transfer Student Night at from dorm to dorm: Men were not Senior Bar. Roger Parent, mayor of allowed to go to parties outside their South Bend, is helpingprovide activ­dorms unless invited, although wo-ities in the South Bend area such as men could go to any men's or wo-the East Raceway. 
IMPORTED LEATHERS CERAMICS 

Linea-1. 
Gifts & Coffee Shop 1631 E. Edison Rd. (Near Univ. ND) 
(219) 277-4983 

Serving: Espresso -Cappuccino -Pastries -Sandwiches 
Familyplanning lecture 
Kitty Fulnicky of the Natural Family Planning Board of St. joseph County lectured on naturalfamily planning, the only birth control method allowed by the Catholic Church, last night in the Hayes-HealyAuditorium. 


r····L£Tiii£M.EAi.cAKE·····: 
+ Notre Dame Student Cake Service : 
+ can now be found at "Irish Gardens" + Flower Shop in LaFortune 
•
: 
•• . i : Order a cake today & we'll +
i ideliver it tomorrow 
~ M-F 12:30-5:30 +
l ~ ~ ••••••••••••••••••••••••J. 
, ­

The Observer 

The Observer/Mary Flynn
We'll invent a social life! 
Sophomore Rich Toomey acts as air guitarist for noon yesterday, students were hard pressed to find Bruce Springsteen as he listens to an album playing in their ownforms ofentertainment. his room In Morrissey HaU On a wet and dreary after-
Wednesday, September 26, 1984 -page 5 
Kremlin attacks U.S. arms control proposals 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW · The official Soviet news agency Tass yesterday rejected President Reagan's as· surances of a U.S. desire for arms cuts as "absolutely groundless," and the top Kremlin leader charged the White House has no real desire for better ties with Moscow. 
"The president tried to present in a somewhat modified form the self· same policy aimed at further ag· gravating international tension, achieving military superiority and interfering in the internal affairs of other states," the news agency Tass said. 
The Tass report and a speech by Soviet President Konstantin U. Cher· nenko made clear the Soviets are not retreating on major East-West disputes, despite milder U.S. rheto· ric and Reagan's scheduled meeting Friday with Soviet Foreign Minister 
0-C events 
continuedfrom page 1 
isn't clear enough concerning off· campus events, and that some memorandum should have been published long ago detailing such in· formation. 
"It was really unfair," Pellegrino said. "We lost a lot of money on the tickets, D.J., buses, and the down payment on the boat. I guess they saw what they didn't like, namely a booze cruise, and ended it." 
Although Pellegrino believes his dorm was a victim of an after-the· fact decision, Cafarelli sees the guidelines as beneficial to the stu· dents. 
"We are actually trying to protect the students. For instance, in the Oil· Ion Hall SYR case, Bernie and Kevin (O'Brien, co-president of Dillon), could have been named co-Andrei Gromyko. 
In a speech to the jubilee meeting of the SO-year-old Writers Union, Chernenko renewed charges that the Reagan administration is respon· sible for what the Kremlin calls an increased nuclear war threat. 
Chernenko, in his first major speech since last spring, also charged that Washington is con· ducting psychological warfare against the Soviet Union. And he ex· horted Soviet writers to join the "ideological struggle" and issued new warnings that those who "blacken" the image of the state won't be tolerated. 
Chernenko's speech was shown on the main Soviet evening news program. The tape ran 22 minutes and the 73-year-old leader displayed the breathing difficulties he usually has while speaking in public. 
defendants if anything had hap­pened. In fact, anyone who attended the booze cruise could have been held liable if another person had been injured." 
Goldrick and Cafarelli both ex· pressed concern that the incidents could extend beyond the civil level of the law and include the criminal realm. "After the lawsuits are settled, there's a family out a kid. That's a sit· uation that can't be solved," said Goldrick. 
Both administrators believe that the alcohol policy is a reflection of the times, and is concurrent with many state laws concerning alcohol consumption in the U.S. The same discrepancies that arise within the state laws surrounding alcohol have 
arisen  on  campus,  according  to  
Cafarelli.  
"It is  so  typical of the law that  

someone wants a further explana· tion; that's the law," Cafarelli con· eluded. 

You've been studying for hours. The pages are blurring and your stomach is stirring. So why not take a break and call Domino's Pizza? We'll be there with a hot, custom-made pizza in 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed! All of our pizzas are made with 
100% real dairy cheese and fresh, not frozen, toppings. Now isn't that worth contemplating! 
Menu 
All Pizzas Include Our Special Blend of Sauce and 100% Real Cheese 
Our Superb Cheese Pizza 12" cheese $4 99 
Q
16" cheese $7.19 
"' 
Domino's Deluxe 5 1tems for the pnce of 4 Pepperoni, Mushrooms. Onions, Green Peppers and Sausage 12" deluxe$ 8.55 16" deluxe $12.35 
Electives Pepperoni. Mushrooms. Black Olives, Omons, Green Olives, Sausage. Ground Beef. Ham. Green Peppers. Double Cheese. Extra Thick Crust 12" pizza $ .89 per 1tem 16" p1zza $1.29 per 1tem 
Coke" 16 oz bottles. 59¢. 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00 
Limited Delivery Area 
Pr~ces do not 1nclude apphcable sales 1a11. c 1984 Dommo s P1zza Inc 

r----------------------,
Pay only $5.99 for a
$5.99 
12" one item pizza and 2 Cokes·• .
Special 
Expires in one week. 
m-
Fast, Free Delivery™ Plaza 23 Center 835 South Bend Ave. "' . South Bend Phone 277·2151 • JTC NA 103 2650 • • • 1984 Dommo s P1zza Inc ~======~====~==~ 
. ·,i ® 
L••~:·:.~-~~--------------J DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS™ FREE. 
MACINTOSH USERS!! 
-Mac:Ciub Meeting­
Students & Faculty Welcome! 

6:00p.m. THURS, 9/27 Lafortune Little Theatre 
For the latest election news get 
THE NEW YORK TIMES 
DELIVERED ANYWHERE ON CAMPUS for 35c a day 
Contact George Devenny 283-2094 145 Stanford 
mitt iKniglfts oftltt<l!astlt 

Men's Hair Styling at its finest minutes from campus 

s 00 
272-0312 277-1691 


HAIRCUTS 
-,.1<; '-' fcrran: l.J.nc (~I H.d. 25) 
.\t·ro,.,. from Marrm's 
Hair must be Shampooed day of cut. 
We are only minutes from campus 







View:Q_O_i_n_t________
w_e_dn-es-da-y,_sep-te_m_be_r2_6_,1-98-4_pa-ge-6 


Presenting the hard facts on abortion 
"We are not won byarguments that we can Since 1973, there has been a 130-fold in­analyze, butby tone and temper, by the man­crease in abortions, but only a four-fold reduc­ner which Is theman himself'-Samuel Butler tion in the number ofillegal abortions. Before 
Seven columns and eight letters later, Mario 1973, 80 to 90 percent of all abortions were Cuomo's speech remains the "big" campus performed by doctors. So to eliminate one issue of the day. The last issue to compare illegal abortion, over 18 legal abortions have 
with this magnitude ofresponse was the alco­been performed. hol policy and the next, I predict, will occur if The numller ofdeaths resulting from illegal Notre Dame loses to Missouri this weekend. abortions in 1973 according to U.S. Public 
I did not write a column on the alcohol Health figures was 36. policy (though I opposed it), and I probably A study of 3,500 rape cases in Minneapolis­will not write on Notre Dame football area hospitals showed not one case resulting (because I do not know enough about our in pregnancy. And a U.S. government report in team to comment). Despite the risk of 1981 showed that the federal government keeping the issue lingering, I wish to address paid funds for 15 abortions due to rape or in­Cuomo's speech and the question ofabortion. cest. In short, pregnancy rarely results from 
In his own words, Mario said he came to rape. 
Notre Dame as "a frog." Judging from the A University of Southern California study standing ovation Mario received at the end of showed no positive corelation between child his remarks, he left like a prince. While I did abuse and unwanted pregnancies ( 91 percent not like what he said, I liked how he said it. of the abused children were the result of The man has style. planned pregnancies). 
Enough said about Mario Cuomo. As to the To replace U.S. population, there must be question of abortion, I do not want to influ­2.1 birth.s per family. Today each family ence you so much as educate you. So let me reproduces 1.8 births per family. Further, 
pt:ople do not exist for the benefit ofthe eco­nomy. The economy exists for them. The problem in the world is not a lack of re­
Joseph Murphy sources, but a misallocation of those re­sources. 
here I stand In a recent year, the number of applicants willing to adopt an infant exceeded the num­ber available by eight to one. 75 percent of 
just state some scientific and legal facts about women who had abortions had had one abortion, so you can decide if the fetus is a within the last 12 months. Clearly, adoption human life or not? and education can replace abortion. 
At conception, the fetus has different Further, birth control is the prevention of chromosomal makeup from either of its par­life, while abortion is the cessation of life. A enrs. As its journey towards birth begins, the difference Cuomo does not recognize. fetus further differentiates itself from its mot­By allowing abortion, America has begun to her. It can have a different blood type, be of a determine the rights of humans in terms of different sex, and can replace its own dying how minorities affect the majority. Rather cells. than helping the poor, the unborn, and the 
By 25 days from conception, the unborn aged, Governors such as Richard Lamm are child's heart begins to beat. By 30 days, his fighting for a "new survival of the fittest." quarter-inch long body has a brain, eyes, ears, Once human life is no longer sacred, where do mouth, kidney, liver, and umbilical cord. we draw the line? Then I ask can we impose 
By 45 days, the unborn child's skeleton is ourselves on the weak who burden us and 
complete, in cartilage, not bone. Here, move­claim they do not have a right to life as Lamm ment begins, although another 12 weeks will does. pass before its mother notices any. Abortion sets a precedent which leads to Brianwaves can now be measured by an EEG. the quality oflife ethic. By 63 days, it can grasp an object in the palm According to the latest Newsweek poll, 41 of its hand and by 10 weeks its feet are fully percent of those questioned support Presi­formed. dent Reagan's position on abortion; while 
At eight weeks, it can swim freely in the am­oniy 33 percent favor Walter Mondale's. niotic fluid and has a natural swimmers stroke. Governor Cuomo said we should wait for a 
At 11 weeks, all of the unborn child's organ consensus before acting. Historically, before systems are functional. It breathes, swallows, the 1973 decision to legalize abortion, there digests, and urinates. It is very sensitive to was no majority favoring abortion. Ifthere had pain and will respond to noise. Ifit's amniotic been, the abortionists would not have used fluid is sweetened, it will swallow more often. the courts as their vechicle for change. They 
In short, it sleeps and wakes. would have used the Congress. 
This pattern of development continues un­The civil rights movement used the courts' til birth, at which point 41 of the 45 genera­to change the laws. After the law had been tions of cell division have taken place. The changed, opinion changed. Attitudes followed remaining four are left to childhood and authority. So why should pro-lifers not use the adolescence. same means to change the law and further the 
It is dependent on its mother before and right-to-life ethic? History repeats itself, al­
. after birth oniy for food, care, and housing. I though Mario Cuomo would like to make pro­suggest therefore birth is a change in environ­lifers think they are somehow imposing ment, not a change in life. I have called the themselves on society in a different way than unborn child an "it," you can decide if it's a the abortionists of the Roe vs. Wade era. human being. Finally, I am an active democrat, but I am 
Having described the unborn child's life in proudly a pro-lifer first. I believe not oniy in the womb, let me now detail the methods women's rights, but in the rights ofall. To me, which end the child's existence. liberty and life for all are one in the same. You 
75 percent ofall abortions are perfomed by cannot have one without the other. dilation and curetage. Like the suction To quote Martin Luther King, whose life method, used in 90 percent of first trimester and tragic death helped bring liberty to an op­abortions, D & C acts as a vaccuum to remove pressed people: "Here I stand." Will you stand the child from the womb. Another method is with me? saline injection where the unborn infant's joseph Murphy Is a sopbmore In the Col­outer-layer of skin is burned and he dies an lege of Arts & Letters and Is the assistant hour l~t~r from poisoning and hemorrhaging. Viewpoint editor at The Observer. 


Does God hover over the White House? 
Ronald Reagan is not only a movie star in the White House. He is conducting his own movie in the White House. Uke most movies, it very much resembles its Hollywood predecessors. In fact, sometimes it seems a mere rewrite. 
Take the president's treatment of his own assassination. He took the shooting itself in stride, passing it off with quips like Dick Powell under the bandages in "Murder My Sweet." Yet, at the Republican Convention in Dallas, Reagan said he had taken the attempt so seriously that the rest of his life now "belongs to someone else." 
That is, so help me, the plot of an old '30s movie called "Gabriel Over the White House." In this MGM film, the U.S. president is left at death's door after an auto accident. In a 
Garry Wills 

outrider 
coma, he is given by the archangel Gabriel a vision ofthe way he should live ifhe recovers, and he goes on to do that. The rest ofthe time left him in office is spent doing good. Franklin Roosevelt, new in the White House himself, like the movie and watched it several times. But Ronald Reagan has lived it. You can't top that. 
Obviously the vision Reagan has for "What Time Is Left Me" does not include spending a lot of hours in church. George Washington, whom Reagan quoted in his prayer breakfast address at the Dallas convention, would have sympathized with that. Washington was not much of a churchgoer himself. But even he attended Episcopal services when he was in office, to set a good example. Reagan cannot bring himself to do that. 
Reagan's use of Washington to link religion and politics did not cite the one real tes­timony Washington offers in favor ofthat link­his churchgoing as president. That would have been too embarrassing. 
But aside from that temporary attention to divine services, Washington would not have been a favorite of the evangelicals who now quote him. Parson Weems made up the story ofWashington being seen in prayer during the war. Washington never used the wordJesus in his writings -as opposed to Jefferson, who of­ten called jesus history's greatest moral teacher, and who ended up his days reading from the New Testament every night before he went to bed. 
Jefferson was not a favorite ofthe preachers during his life. He was a deist, which he defined as a "monotheist." That is, he did not believe in the Trinity-so, obviously, he could not believe in Christ's divinity. Still, he gave more serious thought and respect to religion than Washington ever did. 
Washington did not even like to use the word "God." He customarily used "Providence" instead. Some of the religious touches in his messages to the troops were supplied by his secretaries, who were New England Congregationalists. His real views came out when there was a move to extend the informal chaplain system of the Revolu­tionary Army. Up to that point, individual units had been allowed to adopt a chaplain or not as they chose. One clergyman wanted to put the appointment of chaplains on a federal basis (as it is now). Washington quashed the move. 
After he retired from the White House, Washington gave up his ceremonial office as vestryman of the local Virginia church, and did not attend any more. Even earlier, when he failed to take communion during one ser­vice, and the preacher drew attention to that fact, he never returned to the man's church. 
The passage from the farewell address cited 
by Reagan in Dallas was written by Alexander 
Hamilton and actually toned down by Wash­
ington. If the current zealots are looking for 
religious enthusiasm in the founders, they 
should go to Benjamin Franklin. For a while in 
his speculative youth, he not only believed in 
God but in a plurality of gods. He would have 
had many archangels hovering over the White 
House. Would that please the Reverend Fal­
well? 
(c) 1984, UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Editor-in-Chief. Bob Vondertleide Bus1ness Manager . . Dave Taiclet Managing F.ditor Mark Worscheh Controller. . Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton AdvertiSing Manager .. . Anne CulliganUniversity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
News Editor . . ... Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. . . Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as 
Saint Mary's Ed1tor . . Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager . . . .. Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the o'pinion 
Sports Ed1tor. M1chael Sullivan of a majority of the Editorial Buard. Commentaries. letters and the lns1de Column Viewpoint Editor . . . . Dave Grote present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the 
Features Ed,tor. Mary Healy commun1ty. and the free expressiOn of varying opinions on campus. through letters. Photo Ed1tor. . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 IS encouraged. 
"ielYP-~O~i~n~t~-------------------------------------W--ed_n_e_sda__y,_s_ep_t_e_m_b_er_2_6_,_19_B_4__~P_ag~e_7_ ­
P.O.BoxQ 
People must believe abortion is wrong 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Terry Donovan's guest column on Cuomo's speech. I think that she ha.~ missed one of the main points of Mr. Cuomo's speech. She ha.~ failed to touch on the reality ofabortion. I think we can all agree that no one who ha.~ an abortion likes or wants to kill their child. That Is not the reason for most abortions. The reason Is that the mother and father simply don't have the means to care for the child and believe (rightly or wrongly) that the abortion is in everyone's best interest. Cuomo says the best way to stop abortion is to provide alternatives. In other words, provide money for the care ofthe child and the contin­ued education and job training of the mother and father if necessary so the mother and fa­ther believe that the child ha.~ a chance at a decent life In the world. When these opportu­nities ar available to everyone, then serious debate on the legislation concerning abortion can truly begin. 
If we han abortion before alternatives are available, the abortions will not stop, they will simply become more dangerous because of lack of funding and qualified doctors to per­form the operation. Because It is not the abor­tions of people who can afford it that we can realistically prevent, but those of the less for­tunate. Until the rest ofthe community is will­Ing to lend a hdping hand to those in need, legislation against abortion could just be counterproductive. 
I would like to point out for the benefit of the readers that slavery didn't end because Uncoln or anyone else with power believed in the personhood of blacks (which Is a major embarrassment) but because they thought slavery was wrong. Uncoln himself believed blacks were inferior people and that they didn't even deserve to vote. 
Michael Froning Dillion Hall 

Forgotten freshmen of Pasquerilla West 
Dear Editor: 
lbis letter Is written from roon 200 Pasquerllla West. You may never have heard of room 200 because It technically does not exist, but Is a mere figment of the administra­tion's Imagination. Perhaps the room does ex­ist (as a "study lounge") yet its occupants doubt their own physical presence at Notre Dame. Accepting the fact that we would be places In a temporary housing situation was the easy part of our predicament. However, we are now left to deal with the repercus­sions. 
While freshmen accepted at an earlier date received all the necessary Information (order form for football tickets, and more impor­tantly, the application and submission of pho­tograph for the dogbook), we "secondary citizens" only received the bill for tuition, room, and board (which was the same, despite the situation). Although we realize the dogbook Is an artificial means of meeting people, at least it is a way (now that parties are all but obsolete). 
In conclusion, we would like to wish you all a good time at all your SYR's, semi-formals, and formals-if you're ever in the area, feel free to stop in, we'll always be here! 
DeirdreRyan Kim R. Keppler ·Michele U. Martin 
Religion is not an alien to politics 
Dear Editor: 

Having left graduate work at Notre Dame for one semester in order to teach history at a seminary in the placid hills of southern In­diana, I feel a familiar mingling of puzzlement and dismay as I read student articles and let­ters in the Observer on the stormy subject of religion and politics. Chris Julka compares Governor Cuomo with those passive Germans who refused to speak out against Hitler. Mi­chael Quinlan charges the New York gover­nor with standing "for the proposition that political success for a Catholic requires the surrender ofone's values: at least those values which are not fashionable." 
No serious Christian will contend that Americans of any religious persuasion ought to refrain from taking stands on public ques­tions. Moreover, few will contend that dis­tinctively Christian positions never emerge regarding political ;questions which demand an essentially moral response. One thinks of slavery and fascism. Julka and Quinlan are cor­rect in contending that the world ofa religion is not wholly alien to the world of politics. There is a sense in which reality must always be experienced as a seamless web; hence, one's morality will in one sense always suffuse one's thinking on everything else. 
Still, there are no ineluctably "Christian" answers to most of the great public problems of our time (or of any era). The J udeo­Chrlstian heritage, to paraphrase Toc­queville's description ofan abstraction, is like a box with a false bottom. One can put into the heritage whatever one pleases and then take it out again without being observed. One can as easily quote St. Thomas Aquinas, for instance, to consecrate freedom of choice regarding abortion as to justify a legal ban on the same. 
People who struggle to make sense of the world of politics by describing it as a virtual sub-branch of moral theology usually turn out to be censorious, self-righteous and one­dimensional in their political as well as their religious thinking. They forget that politics is essentially an obscure and intricate scramble between competing interests, rather than a forum for the translation of God's will into public law. Anyone can claim to possess a divine imprimatur for his or her political views. Chris · Julka and Michael Quinlan remind one of Uncoln's observation that, "Men are not flattered by being shown that there has been a difference of purpose be­tween the Almighty and them." 
Rev. Isaac McDaniel, O.S.B. St. Meinrad, Indiana 
Appalled by the juvenile behavior 
DearEditor: 

We were appalled by the juvenile behavior displayed by some unartistic individuals as ex­pressed through the defacement of several buildings on the campus this weekend. 
We realize that many may feel that a void has been created by the alteration ofthe social life, but we don't feel that it is necessary to stoop to such a low level ofbehavior to fill idle time. 
Up until this point, with few exceptions, we have been relatively impressed by the quality and caliber of students at this university, however, this "prank" has led us to believe that perhaps there are still a few people around that have nqt matured past the grade school level mentality required to perpetrate such a stunt. 
We can only hope that in the revealing light of dawn these "artists" were as distressed as we to see the havoc that they wreacked. 
Signed by 26South QuadResidents 
We left something out of the Constitution 
DearEditor: 

I am writing in response to Governor Cuomo's speech on defending his abortion public policy. I disagree with him. Cuomo: "Catholic public officials take an oath to preserve the Constitution...not because they love what others do with their freedom, but because they realize that in guaranteeing freedom for all, they guarantee our rights to be Catholics." 
In our constitution many rights are stated and guaranteed. One key resulting issue ofthe Constitution is a general thesis ofInnocent un­til proven guilty, and thus giving people "the benefit of the doubt." 
We all as humans, have the right to life (life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness). When are we humans? Scientists keep pushing this date back further and further toward concep­tion. Scientists cannot prove the date is con­ception, but we must give the developing individual"the benefit of the doubt." 
The developing fetus is human too. He also has the right to life. We did leave something out ofour constitution. 

Many issues need to be considered 
DearEditor: 
Since I have been on campus, many of the editorials in Tbe Observer have dealt with the single Issue ofabortion. I think It's time to add a little variety to your column. I think that we all should take the time to realize that the cam­paign this fall Is not a single issue campaign! There are many other important Issues to con­sider and discuss rather than always discuss­ing abortion. 
Instead, why don't we consider where each candidate stands on other issues? Such as the control of military spending and the true im­portance of nuclear disarmament? We have enough power In nuclear weapons to destroy (murder) the world (people) many times over. Is it really necessary? What is the point of this abominable Increase In nuclear weapons in the past few years? What about our current relations with other nations? 
Let's also consider the troubles that are going on in Central America. Do those countries need our help in the form of guns, bombs and such? Or do they need our help In the form of food for their starving and homes for their poor? I think that we are too con­cerned about being "tough" on the Soviets and Communism; so much so, that we have lost our perspective in the arena of Interna­tional Relations. 
Then, there Is always the deficit to fall back on. Should it really be this large? It's terrible to put it aside for even a moment because it Is so important to the economic health and stability of our nation. Can our economy survive with such an enormous deficit? What exactly has been done about It? 
How about considering social programs? We as Catholics should consider such sub­jects as civil rights, social security, prorams for the aged and disabled and programs to feed the children of economically deprived families. Is the current administration really giving these Issues the concern they deserve? 
Finally, why don't we talk about the envi­ronment for a while? Don't we need to con· serve our environment for our enjoyment and the enjoyment of generations to come? Shouldn't we be doing something more about pollution control, acid rain and toxic wastes that threaten our health and our lives? I haven't seen much done in the past few years on these thn;e very Important concerns, have you? 
I think that we, as somewhat educated voters, should look at all aspects of this years' campaign and not focus our attention on any single issue. We should set aside for a mo­ment, that we are Democrats or Republicans. We are all Americans, and we should vote for the candidate that most emulates our concern for the equality ofall people, no matter where they are or who they are. 
MaryLaSata Regina Hall 
Save a tree, don't write a rebuttal 
DearSirs: 
In regard to Tim O'Brien's letter regarding Fran Theby and Nancy John's letter regarding Chris Skorcz's letter regarding Marc Ramirez's article regarding freshmen, I would'just like to say that (now I ca¥\'t remember) Oh yeah, what we have here/is a very important Issue. My God! It is Important, that Is right really lm· portant, you bet it's Important, It's as Impor­tant as... I can't think ofanything as Important as this important issue! Yes, sir, Important all right. Anyway, I have a solution to this Impor­tant issue. Take the entire freshman class and break it into two teams, the captain of one team will be Marc Ramirez and the captain of the other will be Chris Skorcz. Each team will be armed with three obscene phone calls, four baseless Insults, five cheap shots, and limitless supplies ofletters to the editor. The game will be terminated when either side acknowledges that they are taking themselves too seriously or when all members die of old age, which­ever comes first. 
Iopenly acknowledge that this letteris face­tious, stupid and probably the result of brain 
rot.  Therefore...SAVE  A  TREE,  DO  NOT  
WRITE A REBUTTAL.  Mike Naughton  
Flanner Hall  

-
------------------~-------~ 

Showcase 
Wednesday, September 26, 1984 -page 8 
•
t 
ND suntnter ­where the real action is  
by Cat Francis features copy editor  
The school year ends. Crews ofworkmen roll huge tarpaulins over the halls of Notre Dame. The Administration Building is encased in plastic, to guard against nicks and scratches. The squirrels, chipmunks and other small furry animals are returned to their cages. The campus waits, silent and empty, gathering cobwebs until next September. Well, maybe not. Try this scenario instead. The students, haggard from late night studying for finals, stagger out of their dorm rooms, and vanish softly and silently away. The campus breathes a sigh ofreliefand buckles down for the real action. Summer school is, ofcourse, a main part of this action. Professors, instead ofbooking seats on the next flight to the French Riviera or dusting off their inner-tubes, polish up their notes and sharpen their chalk. Summer school at Notre Dame is a curious blend ofvery basic courses and graduate level studies. The student body for the summer consists ofhigh school and graduate students, with a scattering ofundergrads who either desperately need credits or just want to keep their hands in. The hours are longer, and the pace a little faster. The classes are smaller, and involve more discussion than most. But while these students swelter in classrooms, even more goes on, outside. The major event, hailed with much fanfare and hoopla, is the week the Wally Byam trailer people come to campus. Hundreds of silver trailers, contoured like marshmallows to reduce air resistance, stream onto campus and proceed to set up housekeep­ing. I've been told that the Airstream trailers are the creme de Ia creme ofthe trailer world. They're sturdier, longer-lasting, more expensive. Their proud occupants set up flags next to their campsites. Almost every trailer has three: an American flag, one showing their state oforigin, and another with the traditional Wally Byam emblem. Wally Byam is, I gather, the man who started the whole thing. I don't know where they go after they depart. Perhaps they wander to some other campus, or else cruise the highways of America in an endless search for some unimaginable Wally Byam Truth. What goes on in the mind ofsomeone who drives thousands of miles to sit in a parking lot in the middle ofSouth Bend, Indiana? Do they show slides oftheir vacation here? Do they display their souvenirs of Notre Dame on their mantels? Where are they when they're not here? The only time ofyear I glimpse one of those silver shapes is while they're convening here on campus. Perhaps Notre Dame is sacrosanct to t~em. Like the fabled Elephants' Graveyard, the Golden Dome may be regarded as the sacred meeting place ofthe Airstream trailers. Soon after they trundle out, however, another incredible phenomenon takes their place. American Youth On Parade. It boggles the mind. What does this name mean? Why are they on parade? Why do they parade at Notre Dame? For whatever reason, they do arrive. And for yet another week the campus is infested, but with a totally different breed. Children in sequined outfits, each with a baton firmly clutched in one sweaty little hand. Elaborate costumes worthy ofa Broadway musical. Station wagons with banners in the rear windows, proclaiming that riding in this very car is "Miss Sweet Valley, 1982." I have never witnessed the strange and arcane rituals that then take place in the ACC. And frankly, I'm not sure that I want to. I was at a drugstore one day last summer when a flock ofthem came in. They went to the make-up counter and, as God is my witness, proceeded to discuss the various merits ofeach and every shade oflipstick. Luckily, my bus arrived and I left before they moved on to the fingernail polish. Once America's little sweethearts migrate elsewhere, the campus again lies barren. But not for long. The trailer and mobile home show arrives. For a few very special days, you can see every new model of mobile home being manufactured. The representa­tives lure visitors to their booths with various inticements like posters, balloons, free food. Several years ago, I allowed myself to be persuaded to attend this spectacular extravaganza. I came home with three posters, several dozen key chains, two plastic leis, a drinking cup which folds up, a whistle shaped like Yogi Bear, several reams ofbrightly colored pamphlets, a sunburn, a headache and a vow to never return. I think next year I'll just hide. Summers at Notre Dame are far too exciting for the likes ofme.  

Heifer is a hand up, not hand out 
by Moe Brick 
features staff writer 

H
eifer Project International is not a foreign study program for cows, as its name might suggest, but an Arkansas-based volunteer organi­zation which raises various types of livestock, poultry and bees to be sl:tipped to third world countries. The healthy animals are then breed to increase herds in developing countries. The measure is seen as a hand up, not a hand out. 
Last Tuesday the group held a meeting to inform students of the organization through discussion and a film strip on HPI's history, and to encourage Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to spend their Fall break down on the farm, on the group's trip to Arkansas. The group also outlined the different geo­graphical areas to be assisted by the project. 
HPI was conceived, incredible as it may seem, by a Hoosier named Daniel West. West was working in Spain during the Spanish Civil War in the 1940's. He felt sad giving out the meager supplies ofmilk to children, as it was quickly gone while always needed the next day. So the thought occurred to West, "why not just give them a heifer? Then the children can have milk all of the time." 
Unfortunately World War II started soon after this idea was put into action, and only one shipment ofdonated midwestern animals ever made it to Spain. However, the dream offeeding the children per­sisted, and after the war Heifer Project International turned its attention to war-ravaged Europe and Asia. Japan received so many 
goats that today many farmers know 
exactly where their livestock dec­
sended from: HPJ heifers. After the 
Korean War, chickens were sent to 
South Korea. Today it is estimated 
that one halfofall poultry in that 
country are decsended from the 
government's joint efforts with HPI. 
Here in the U.S., a program has been established in Mississippi, where people who earn less than 52,000 per year can get college training at a Heifer Project farm. Upon graduation they receive an animal. The deal is, however, that the animal's first born must be given back to the college, to be given to a future graduate; thus continuing the program. 
People who go to Arkansas for fall break will work about eight hours a day, beginning around six or eight in the morning. Their chores will include working with the animals, painting and carpentry work. Non­working hours can be spent learn­ing more about the economics of the project or hiking through the farm's beautiful 1,200 acre expanse. 
The farm is about a 15 hour drive from Notre Dame, just north of Little Rock. The cost for the week will be less than S40, with the parti­cipants buying and preparing their own food, while staying at a large house on the farm. 
Although HPJ is founded upon Christian beliefs, the project is interdenominatioal. Generally the Protestant churches and different volunteer organizations that partici­pate have their members fulfill a mandatory week ofservice for a week at the farm. 
The Project also sells its high­quality stock to local farmers to earn 60 percent ofits operating expenses. The animals are bred for third world conditions, so that all of them (goats, pigs, sheep, cows, rabbits and bees) are especially productive, hardy and mature at an early age. Volunteers, however, are the basis of the organization, for it is only through them that labor costs are minimized and animals are cared for. 
Why work on a farm? For one thing, it is a unique and perhaps once-in-a-lifetime experience. Secondly, one's efforts are in­directly helping malnourished people throughout the world. Unlike receiving a handout from rich Americans, poor people are instead gaining self-respect, dignity and hope. The best thing about this is that it does not stop here. Instead, it is given to others as a part of the deal made with Heifer Project. 
This project shows that people have a different attitude toward hand outs than they do toward responsibility. HPJ's philosophy brings to mind that age old adage, "Give a man a fish, and he will eat for a day," under HPI "teach a man to fish ... " and he will develop a fleet ofboats which will employ countless countrymen and increase his country's balance of trade. The Biblical similarities are apparent. The actual results can be seen in successful areas ofEquador, South Korea and japan. 
For people who may be inter­ested in learning more about this alternative for fall break, there will be a meeting this Wednesday night at 8 in the Center for Social Con­cerns. Ifyou want to go, bring lots ofenthusiasm and ... your overalls! 
Feature briefs 
DALLAS -Been looking high and low for a desk in the shape ofa longhorn steer? Or maybe you've been prowling the stores looking for a nice chair in the shape ofa spotted dog? 
Look no further. The Neiman­

Marcus Co. has mailed out its 
Christmas catalogs, a traditional 
source ofimaginative, unusual and 
high-priced goodies. 
For the cost-conscious, the cata­log mailed out Monday features · eight pages ofgifts at $25 and un­der, and four pages ofpresents at no or less. 
But for those with money, this year's "his & hers" gift is a lifelike 
PhU 
) 

creation ofa longhorn, or a horse, available for a mere 565,000. It's made ofeight exotic woods, and a fold-down desk or vanity, with shelves and drawers, is built into its side. 
The spotted dog armchair, hand­carved and painted, sells for S450, while a canvas cat floor mat goes for $125. 
NEW YORK-Awoman on a flight from London to New York forgot that she had concealed S4,000 in her pantyhose and dropped the whole bundle down the plumbing when she visited the lavatory. 
"She was somewhat beside her· 
self," said a TWA spokesman who 
spoke on condition he not be iden­
tified. 
A TWA report on Friday's acci­
dent said simply: "When nature 
called, the money went down the 
tube." 
After TWA's Flight 701 landed at 
Kennedy Airport, the woman ex­
plained her plight and two TWA 
ramp servicemen volunteered to 
check as the effluent was pumped 
off the plane, and found the money. 
The $100 bills were "laundered" and returned to her, the spokesman said. The airline did not release the names ofthe woman or the helpful ground crew. 
Scott Flora 

~~~aa
a:P ~"wht ~-----------------­


I 
Wednesday, September 26, 1984 -page 9 
APTop Twenty 
The Top Twenty college loolball teams tn The Aa­sociated Pr8S8 poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, this seaaoo's records and total polnlll. Polnlll baaed on 20-1&-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents areitalicized 
1. Nebraska (52) 3-D 1,116 2. Texas (2) 1-D 1,027 3. Ohio State (2) 3-0 995 4. Penn State 3-D 834 5. Beeton Cojlega 3-o 831 6. Washington 3-D 830 7. Oklahoma 3-D 797 8. Brigham Young 4-D 781 9. Florida State 3-D 665 10. Oklahoma State 3-D 597 
11 . So. Methodist 2-D 560 12. Georgia 2-0 557 13. Clemson 2-1 473 14. Michtgan 2·1 366 15. Southern Cal 2-0 341 16. Miami, Fla. 3-2 200 17. UCLA 2-1 153 18. Georgia Tech 2-D 100 11. NoiNOeme 2-1 16 20. Auburn 1-2 94 


Sports Briefs 
A badminton tournamentwill be held by NVA. Sln~les and doublc:s entries for the double-elimination tournament are being taken at the NVA office. -Tbe Observer 
Approximately 80 tickets for the Notre Dame/Missouri football ~arne are available on a first-come, first­Sl·rved basis, continuing today at the Student Activities Board record store.-Tbe Obsen•er 
Afreshman swimming meetfor men and wo­men will be: hdd Wednesday, October 10, at 7 p.m. Hall reps must turn in a list of entries to Coach Stark the day before the meet at the Rockne: Buildin~. Divers must submit a list of dives to Stark before the meet. For more information, call 239-7042.-Tbe Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting 
tonight in LaFortune near the student activities office at 7 p.m. For more information, call 287-8264.-The Observer 
A horseback-riding trip to Happy Trails Riding Stables at Edwardsburg, Mich. will be sponsored by NVA. Rides will he at I p.m., 2:30 p.m., 4 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. The charge for the transportation and 60-minute rides is SS. Times must be reserved in person at the NVA office hy October 3. -Tbe Observer 
Entries for the Domer Six-and three-mile runs on Saturday, September 29 are still being accepted at the NVA office. For more information, call 239-6100.-Tbe Observer 
A beginners archery clinic wm be sponsored 
by NVA on October 8, 9 and II from 4:1 S p.m. to; p.m. each day. Deadline to register at the NVA office is October S. -Tbe Observer 
The off-campus hockey teamwill be meeting from 12-1 p.m. today and Friday at the ACC. Team members should bring their skates. -Tbe Obsen;er 
1he ND/SMC Sailing Club wiii be meeting 
tomorrow at 6:30p.m. at the boathouse. -Tbe Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Monday through Friday until 4 p.m. at Tbe Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune. Briefs must be written clearly. -Tbe Observer 
1he ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting tomorrow in the LaFortune Little Theatre at 8 p.m. to discuss plans for a ramp. New members are welcome. -The Observer 
The Obsert•er Notre Dame olfke. lot·ated on th<· third floor of LaFortune Student Centn, an:epts dassitkd advertisin!( from<) a.m. until~ p.m.. Mondav throu!(h Friday. The Obserr•er Saint Mary's office:. locatnl on thto third floor 1;f llaggar College: Cemc:r. accc:pts das,ifkds from 12:.~0 p.m. until .i p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day dassilkds is -~ p.m. All dassifieds must he prepaid. cithc:r in pt:rson or hy mail. Chargto b 10 c<:nt' pn fivt: charac·
Classifieds 
t<:rs pt•r day. 

NOTICES 
Are you In need of FINANCIAL AID? Leaden/lip Tralntngl Challenge' Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! SeaLTC Bob Sktnne< or CPT Anne Rieman In the ROTC Building. (2311-6264) 
Ate you In need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadefah1p Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS' See LTC Bob Sktnne< or CPT Anna Rtaman In the ROTC Building. (23&-6264) 
......................... 

EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 alt8f 5:30 
Wordproceuing and typing. 272-81127 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. 
BOOKS BOUGHT. SOlD,AND TRADEII Pr-1 thlo ad and receive an extra 10/ OFF store books. PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CAU MRS. COKER 233-7009 
........................ 

MAKE YOUR OWN WINE U-plc French Hyb<td Wine Grapes 20-25 cents per lb. Apples-Pears-Concord&. LEMON CREEK FARMS. US 31-1 mi. N. & 5 mt. W. of Bemen Sprtngs, MI. on Lemon Crt<. Rd. 616-471-1321. 
THE NEW YORK TIMES! It's not too late 
to aubacrlbelo the New York Times. Fac­
ulty, undMgraduatee. graduate students. 
law atudenlll, and staff pef&Onnel can 
have the Ttmea dellv8fed anywhere on 
campus(Dorm room, offlca. carrol. mall­
box. department oflice.ect.,) lor only 35 
cents on weekdays, $2.50 on Sundays. 
Contact George Devenny at 145 
Stanlord-283-2094. 
TYPING 
Jack1e Boggs 
684-8793 
ECO ECO ECO Envuonmental Concerns Organtzatton Meeting TONIGHT 7:00 Fltmn8f Penthouse ' 
Will type your pap8fs, manuacnpts, etc. Fut and accurate. Reasonable rates. Pick up and drop of! eervtca. Gall Mary 234-5545 
INFORMAL INTERVIEWS LOYOLA SCHOOl OF LAW OF CHICAGO THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 27 9A.M. ­4P.M. SIGN UP ON PRE LAW SOCIETY BULLETIN BOARD OUTSIDE 101 O'SHAUGHNESSY SPONSORED BY THE NO PRE LAW SOCIETY 
LOST/F~UND I 
LOST: KEYS, Coat of Arms kay ring; Room 259; Mark x1154 
FOUND: Tortoise shell glaaaes In pink Pearle Villon Cent8f case Found at Madelava ahunte atop, Sept. 20. Gall284­
5136 
LOST: Ka:YSON'ND' RING AT GATE 10 ACC OR FITZ. 2ND FLOOR. CALL TIM x2543. 
ATIENTION $5,000 REWARD FOH LOST WATCH AND IM JUST A STU­DENT. WHOEVER FOUND MY GOlD TIMEX WATCH----I WOULD APPRECI­ATE ITS RETURN. I HAVE NO MONEY.. HOWEVER. YOU WILL GAIN TOTAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON YOUR DEATHBED PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE THANKSKIM4114 
LOST: Wooden cane near the nanOI­cappad parking space in front of lha Law School. II found plaaaa call John Mauelat 288-8057 or brtng It to the Law School REWARD: LOST CANON SURE SHOT CAMERA IN THE STADIUM ON SAT. AROUND SEC. 28. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4389. 
································································ 
LOST:1 PAIR PENNY LOAFERS­REWARD-KEVIN 3828 
LOST: REDDISH BROWN WALLET loet on 9/21 at Angela or between NO & SMC. II you find It, save a llle(mlne). I'm ge«lng sharp hunger pains. PLEASE Gall Dave at 283-1475 
LOST: 5 KEYS ON A SIMPLE RING. 2 HAVE 26'1 STAMPED ON THEM. $$REWARD IF RETURNED! PLEASE CALL283-1476 THANKS! 
LOST:SHARP GHETIO BLASTER AT BIG BROS. CONCESSION STAND SAT. ROOMIE WIU KILL ME. GREAT REWARD OFFERREDIII CALL JOHN tn3. 
............................................ 
LOST: Fear of public speaking. How? TOASTMASTERS! 
LOST Wallet during the Holy Croas SYR at the Americana Hotel frl. nigh!. There was no money, only plcturee and IDs . 4124 REWARDIIII 
.............................. 
LOST • STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET (SECTION 30). CALL TOM 232-D348. 
LOST· N.Y. DRIVER'S LICENSE. CALL TOM 232-0348. 
RIDES 
............ ............ SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Sklnn8f or CPT Anne R1eman in the ROTC Building. (23&­6264) 
Aide -nted to PURDUE! Any and all weekends. Call Tina at 277-Q151 or Shir­ley at 23&-5303 
I need a ride to East Lansing Friday, Sept. 28 as early as poasible. Returning Sun­day Sept. 30 whenever. Call me at 283­1810. PLEASE! 
I need a math tutor aboUt 4 days a week 1 to 2 hours a oay. $3.00 an hour. Call Lealia 264-4387 
NEED 4 MIAMI GAs WILL PAY $40 each x3639 or 1-264·2894 TRACY 
WANTED: BABYSITIER FOR 3 KIDS: 5, 
3. 4 months. In our home, some nights and weekends. Call 2n-8807. Good money. 
NEED RIDERS TO MIAMI U.-CINCI AREA WEEKEND OF 9/28-9/30 CALL 264-4416 
FOR SALE 
ICE HOCKEY EQUIPMENT (COMPLETE SET-SKATES) PHONE STEVE 2742 
Commodore-64. 1541 disk drive and aoltware.Still under warranty. Asking $500.00 for whole system. Negotiable. Rob 232-0697. 
TICKETS 
I NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. CALL DAVE D. AT 1801. 
... ­
Need Miami tickets. Will trade South Garolina. Call John at the cave, 3467. 
MIAMI TIX-I NEED THREE STUD OR GA. DESPERATE-MONEY IS NO OB­JEC'TII DAVE X4057 
MIAMI TICKETS NEEDED 2 Miami GA's needed. Call Mike at 1740. 
NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S CALL PETER -4606 
Need 2 G.A. tlx lor S.C. game Call Paul 2835 
HELP AN NO STUDENT GET A JOBI MY FUTURE BOSS(?) NEEDS 4 GA MIAMI TIX. MONEY IS NO OBJECT! CALL LARRY (:lD-2015) 
SOUTH CAROliNA tickets needed. 3 GAs togeth8f. Call Todd x1688 
NEEDED: 4 SC GA's and 4 STUD tix. Call 1250 
1 MIAMI STUD TICKET NEEDED -call Katie in morning 1514 
.............................................. 
NEED MIAMI GA'S $$$$ RALPH 1486 
$$$$ 

NEED THREE AIR FORCE GA'S RALPH 1486 
MIAMI GA'S FOR SALE. CALL MIKE AFTER I PM. 234-6253 
I HAVE MIAMI STUD. TIX-WILL TRADE FOR PENN. STATE G.A. TIX CALL 'UT­
7570 

I NEED ONE MIAMI TICKET-Studenl or GA-wi!Ung to pay BUCKS $$$$. Call Frank al2043. 
FOR TRADE ONLY: I have 3 Miami GAs. Will trade lor South Carolina GAs. Call Eric at 1966 
Need 2 stud llx lor Miami game Call John 2835 
NEED 3 Air Force Tix for WEALTHY Alum I St. or GA, call Kevin )3024 
I need one GA 1or MIAMI game. Call Terry. 3305. 
Help! We need MIAMI tlx. Call Rob 1784 Kathy4071 
Yo, I need a whole bunch of Air Force tick­ets. I'm talking large quantitiee. Vast amounts. Lots and lots ol 'em. Can we talk? Call the Alien at 2538. 
..................... SOUTH CAROUNA TICKETS I need some, that's all. Call the Alien at 2538. 
I SELL TWO SEASON STUDENT FOOT­BALL TICKETS Maria 3769 
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN & MY DAD ARE BOTH FROM NJ AND NEITHER HAVE MIAMI TIX. IF YOU HAVE 2 GA'S CALL GREG-3578 
WE NEED MIAMI TIX CALL WOZZ 3224 OR1812 
.................................. You have Miami GA tickets at a reaaonable price,! WANT THEM Paul 2318 
WILL PAY for 4-6 Penn State GA's. Pal 1155. 
.................... I Need 6 G.A. ·s for Miamil Please call Leah at 3782. 
Notre Dame Alum will pay $100 for 6 AIR FORCE GA'a. Please call 277-8653. 
FACT: The Air Force game is coming up soon. FACT: Two people I know are coming up 
soon. FACT: They don't have tickets, but want to see the game. FACT: I need two tickets. FACT: My name is MATI.I carry a badge. CONCLUSION: II you don'l call 2577 soon and sell me two GA's to the Air Force game, I'm going lo do something terrible to your dog. 
NEED 2 OR 4 MIAMI GA'S, PLEASE CAU TIMOAT287-8264 
I NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL BRIAN 3677. 
My folks heard that Hal Von Wyl punted in the Cojorado game, and they're dying to see this history-making event again. Leave mflSSBge. 
NEED MIAMI TIX. CALL JOHN AT 2246 OR 1296. 
Need Miami nx! Will pay big bucks! Call 234-5545. ended 
HELP, DESPERATELY NEED TWO MIAMI GA'S. CALL JOE AT 1143. 
NEED I PENNSTATEGA,CALLSTEVE 2n-503t 
Help!/! need 2 South Carolina GA's lor my parenlll. If you can help me, call Scott at 3241 or 3242. 
BIG BUCKS DESPERATE! NEED UP TO 6 MIAMI TICKETS G.A.'S OR STU­DENTS CALL JERRY AT 1735 
Need 1 Miami GA. Call Janet at 284-4340. 
Need 5-6 GA's for the Oct 13th Air Force Game. Will Pay in cash. Call Anne 5253 (SMC) 
PERSONALS 
ELIZABETH KELLY, CHIN UP, KIDDO. SMILE AUTILE SMILE FOR ME. I LOVE YOU LIKE A MADMAN. AND WANT YOU TO BE HAPPY. --YOUR SPECIAL FRIEND 
.................................... 
HEY LISTEN! Three researchers from the planet Vlimfskik are coming to earth to study the social activitiee and recreation pa«erns of human beings. They absolutely muslsee a Notre Dllme football gamet Howev8f, their spaceship will only be h8fe on No­vember 17, the day ol the PENN STATE game. They need three G.A.s. Please call Mary (their human contact) at 1333 il you want to furth8f the cause of science and inter-species understanding. Vllmfsklk lhanksyou. 
SYLVESTER SMILE! ONLY 2 MORE NIGHTS OF EE. KEEP SATURDAY OPEN--TV AND DRINKS (MAt TAIS?) IN THE PURPLE P.P.? 
Katzi u r my sunshine my only eunshine u make me heppy when skies r gray u'll nev8f know dear how much I luv u pleaz don't take my sunshine away! thanx 4 all, I wouldn'l b making it w/o u. ich Iiebe dich! lyde 
Sir, 'Whenev8f I call you friend' I regret the things I've said. The 'time' is right believe that. Pl8888 know who I really am. Set the clock. I love you! 
JFM. Can I ba next In line alter Sue? LAU 
Good luck tomorrow, Doni!! 
Heppy Birthday Lara Naughton!! From all ofusl! 
STUDENT LOTIERY lor CROSBY STILLS and NASH is this THURSDAY.SEPT.27TH IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD OFFICES on 2nd floor ol LaFORTUNE from 9a.m.-4p.m. TICKETS ARE 13.50 EACH and 4 tickets can ba bought per winning entry. CROSBY STIUS/NASH at the ACC MONDAY ,OC'TOBER 29TH. 
scoop, slats rocks! (help!) pooky 
Cathy-Sheet the bed' 

OBSERVERITESI 
P..n to .nend our ltntt I'IICI"Milon.l ectlvl1y of the ye~~r ...aollbtlll, munchl• and more. Thla Frldlly at 4 p.m. Y'all come up to the olllce lor more -lla. 
WANT A CHANCE TO WORK ABROAD? COME TO THE AIESEC MEETING THURSDAY 7:00 LAFORTUNE BALLROOM-2ND FL 
DEA'R"F'RiE'NDS:· THA.NKS"FOA..TH'E 
WEEKEND, IT WAS A GREAT BUZZ GOOD LUCK THIS YEAR, SEE YOU NEXT TAKE CARE, LED AND THE BEAST 
I know there's something; I don't know how long It's taking in coming. I s#/1 sing the song. All of the pieces nt But the puzzle ne'erIs solved. 
·ChrlaSqulre 
1111 I NEED MIAMI TICKETS !/IIIII ANNE 
2822 

Marc Ramirez-Madder Than Mad In '84 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
CARRYOUTT03A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
I'LL DIE 4 YOU 

I'LLDIE4 YOU 
I'LL DIE4 YOU Would you die lor me? 
yySOPHOMORESyy Make your contribution to the Class ol '87!! Submit a deeign idea for the official class t-shirt to Chris Brit\. rm. 161 Dillon. The design should be In one color and include a back and front 
SENIORS STILL UNDECIDED ABOUT THE SENIOR TRIP? WOULD $25 OFF THE PRICE HELP? TAKE OVER MY $100 DEPOSIT FOR $25! CALL KATHY­
2661. 

································· 
Riders needed to IU Bloomington 9/28­9/30. Call Kalhleen SMC5162. 
ATTN: SMC JUNIORS THOSE INTER· ESTED IN BEING CHAIRPERSON FOR GRADUATION OR SENIOR TRIP co­CHAIRPERSON, PICK UP AN APPU· CATION AT HCC DESK. PLEASETURN IN APPLICATIONS BY SEPT.27TH. QUESTIONS CALL JANET SMC-5341 
APIa a dirty word. 
................................................................ 
I'm dizzy in the head; I'm feeling bad; The things you say Havegol me rea/ mad; I'm getting funny dreams again and again; I know what II mNns, bur I can't explain; llhlnk it's love; I said lo you that/ feel blue; Bull can't explain; Yeah, hiHir what/ say, g/rl. 
·The Who 
Evil lurks where you least expect II. 
The Ray and Pete Serlal2 Hey, guys, who left their mark In the sink? Does anyone remember? Pete, get a real state' 
GREG. AMY still wants to try. She still thinks she can make you change. Give her a chance. Go ahead. make her day! 
Go Gamp! Beat LSATsl 
...................................................... 
LSATs ... DEAD! 

DON'T FORGET! Circle K meeting 6:15pmCSC 
F'OOD'LOV'ERS.~~·A·f~~iiY··;~;;··cHiLE 
off8f8 you LUNCH ON THURSDAY chicken 100p, homemade bread, salad, dessert and beverage from 11:30-1:30. Sept. 27 at the CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. Coat $3.00 
Annmarie-what did I do to upset you? I'm 
sorry. 
LET'S 00CRAZY Oence 
Saturday' Sept. 29 
9:00 p.m.-2:00a.m. 
SMC Haggar Cenl8f 
$1.00 admiaalon 
S~ored by the Soclel Alternative Club 
................................................................ 
ATIENTION LYONS DELIVERY GIRLS!!! Helluva job,girta. (Bul mums the word,rtght??) Love , Marty 
I'm galtin' ready for love 
Brand new start, here's my heart 
I'm gettin· ready 1or love 
I can leal this tlmelt'a real. 
DlanaRoas 
Meow. meow. thanks for the card. 
Purrmrrrrrm... 
I know I already said I'm sorry about nine hundred times, but I still leal kind of bad aboUt it. So h8fe il is in print: I'm sorry. I really appreciate all of your palience and concern, and I'll try not to take advantage of It In the ruture. "Um. can we sit In a booth?" Thanks lor understanding. 
NO STUDENTS FOR REAOA,..BUSH '84 ND STUDENTS FOR AEAOA,._ BUSH '64 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 7PM RM 215 OSHAO ALL 1,._ TRESTED WELCOMEII\11 ND STU­DENTS FOR REAGA,..BUSH '84 NO STUDENTS FOR REAOAN-BUSH '84 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 7PM AM 215 OSHAG ALL INTRESTED WELCOMEIIII REAGAN-BUSH LEAD­ERSHIP YOU CAN TRUSTIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Paul This time It really is me. Hint: glasses. atlverware. Looking forward to 10/5. not that I had any say In the matt8f ... see you soon on CD. 
ALL ELIGIBLE MEN: H8fe Ia your big chance! Today Ia Kate Math8f's 18th birthday!! Why don't you call and wish hM a good one? BE AGGRESSIVE GUYSII 
Ate you haunted by the INr ol public speaking? II so, lear no mora! TOASTMASTERS can helpl Meetings every Wedneeday, 6:30 p.m. In 223 Hayes-Healey. Be there! 
BODY OF SKLEED-MADEED 
A MILLION THANKS TO THE PERSON WHO FOUND MY ID AND SLIPPED IT UNDER MY DOORII REALLY APPRECI­ATE ITI-MKW­
SENIORS! Want to go to New Orleans on the aanior trip? Take ov8f my $100 deposit for $50. Call Kala at 3717. 
John, care for a pretzel? or two? or three? Your fortune cookie says lt'l alright! 
OCTAVIO: End all PSYCHO CHICKEN activity and no one will get hurl. THIS Ia NOT a cartoon. This Is a legitimate threat onyourlne. 
...................................................... 
HEIDE IS A CLOSET BURGER KING LOVER. COME ON OUT OF THE CLOSET. BIG MAC BREATH. 
Soma people ahould read 1he wrlllng onlha-11. 
Wednesday,September26, 1984-page 10
The Observer 
Rouse 
continuedfrom page 12 
lege level or at any other level of coaching. 
"The athletic department says that there has never been money in the budget for a bus driver, but I have always had one and they have always paid for it," stated Rouse. "I think that it is a joke, an embarrass­ment, that a national college cannot provide a bus driver." 
His complaint is not about local games such as Bethel College, but rather concerning the trips of 150 or 200 miles one-way, or even a 700 mile round-trip to Iowa. 
As for recruiting, Rouse claims that the Belles probably could not even field a team without it. To back his claims he cites last year as an ex­ample. Without recruits he would have had only five or six players try out for the team, and this year would have been a repeat performance. 
Although Rouse says that he sent over 800 letters, made over 300 telephone calls and scouted about 10 games last year, the athletic de­partment told him that there is not one penny available for recruiting this year. 


"They said that it has never been in the budget before, but I have al­ways had it," Rouse said. "lfit has not been in the budget, then where has the money come from? 
"I have brought in five to 10 stu­dents during the past two years who probably would not have attended Saint Mary's. At SIO,OOO a year during four years for only five stu­dents, this accounts for over $200,000 ofincome for Saint Mary's, but I cannot even get them to spend $1000 a year in return for recruit­ing." 
In that which concerns the Na­tional Catholic Basketball Tournament at Iowa beginningJanu­ary 9, 1985, Rouse feels that one full week is "a minimal amount ofprepa­ration" for such a tournament, espe­cially since the team will not have practiced since December 9. The present budget accounts for only five days which Rouse considers to­tally unacceptable. 
"They could not possibly get back 

Get the scoop 
on The Observer's news depart· ment. Ifyou've signed up for news at Ac­tivities Night, or if you're interested in joining the news staff, come to an organizational meeting, Thursday at 7 p.m. in Room 118 Nieuwland HaD. Ifyou've got a nose for news, check it out. 
S~COURSES IMPROVE SCORES­WJ:!MPROVE STUD~NTS!!O_G! BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
*te s t-o-tape library *reinforcement test *homestudy packet 
CLASSES STARTING IN OCTOBER 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 272-4135 
,......I ....IIHHHHIIIIIIHIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIII..........IIIIHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIII!M-, 
I 
I 
Technical Sales i at I Texas Instruments Semiconductor Group I 
We sell technical products to technical people. 
I 

Therefore, we must speak their language. The
I 

I 
reasons engineers go into technical sales are 
because they like the big picture, they like 
I 
I convincing and persuading people, they like the freedom and mobility, they like the idea of being rewarded in proportion to their efforts, and they like the exposure to all levels of 
I management. 

We will be interviewing on campus October 10 and 11 for engineers (EE, ME, CHEME) to sell microprocessors, custom circuits and MOS. 
Jean Murtagh, Class of 83 will be at the Alumni room ofthe Morris Inn from 7-9p.m. Thursday, September 27 to talk about .semiconductor sales and opportunities with Texas Instruments. 
--MII......_..............HIIIIHIHI.......HI.....IIHHHIHIHHIIIIHIIHIIIIIHIIHI 
into shape physically and mentally in such a short time after being out that long. E~en a full week is pushing it," he said. 
"I am not asking for anything more, but just for the same things that I have had for the past two years," Rouse adds. "The point is that if Saint Mary's wants to have a team and wants to be able to com­pete, they ace going to have to spend a little money." 
Although Nester was unavailable for comment, Rouse feels that she understands his point of view, but might have her hands tied by the ad­ministration. 
"I am only disappointed in that I feel she is not even going to try to negotiate these points," commented Rouse, "and I think they are going to lose more in the long run than what little that they might gain now." 
Representing the players' inter­ests, senior captain Elaine Suess set up a meeting between her teammates and Nester which was to have taken place this morning to de­termine the future ofa team that was scheduled to begin practice Mon: day. 
Suess denied comment on the topic until after the adjournment of this morning's meeting. 
It appears that the ball is in the athletic department's court, because Rouse would like to continue as coach and would be willing to live with all of the lesser problems if these three main areas could be worked out. Under the present con­ditions, however, he stands firm in his decision to resign, and he will live by it. 
It only remains to be seen ifSaint Mary's can do the same. 
w 
OJ 


Notre Dame gets third at golf championships 
The Notre Dame golf team placed third out of 1 7 teams at the Indiana Intercollegiate Golf Championships held last weekend. The Irish, with a 36-hole score of 623, finished be­hind Purdue and Ball State, with scores of606 and 613, respectively. 
The championships were held at the Golf Club ofIndiana in Lebanon, which is rated one of the top four courses in the Hoosier state. 
In the individual category, the top Notre Dame finisher was freshman Rich Connelly. Connelly, who had a two-day total of 1 50 with scores of 74 and 76, finished fourth overall out of 85 golfers. 
"I'm overjoyed with Rich's perfor­mance," says Notre Dame coach Noel O'Sullivan, "but not totally surprised. I recruited him as my one freshman recruit." 
Dan Palm of Valparaiso was the medalist of the championships with a total score of 145. His 18-hole 
scores  of  pac-72  and  73  were  
compared  by  O'Sullivan  to  pro  
scores.  

Junior captain John O'Donovan, as the second-highest Irish golfer in the individual standings, captured eighth place. His scores of76 and 77 gave him a two-day total of 153. 
"John showed excellent leader­ship by his performance," com­ments O'Sullivan. "There's no doubt about it." 
Notre Dame's Chris Bona took tenth place with a score of 154 (76, 
QUARTER BEERS 9-close 
26 
ITAUAN SUBS GO GREAT WITH QUARTER BEERS 
OJ 

IMPORTED BEER $1 9-close
Th 27 
FIRST20PEOPLE-FREENACHOS 



HAPPY HOUR 6-8
F 28 
WITH BURGERS, BRATS & DOGS 
HOTNEWBANO 
SPUNK 
playing live from 10·2 
UNDERGRADS
s 29 
!!FRESHMAN NIGHT!! 
2 VALID ID'a REQUIRED 
78), giving the Irish three of the top 1 0 finishers. 
. "When you can get three players in the top 1 0," says O'Sullivan, "that's really saying something. I'm really proud ofour guys." 
Junior John Anthony was the fourth Notre Dame finisher with a 36-hole 166. Lon Hu.tlman rounded out the five Irish golfers with a 171. 
"The putting pact of Lon's game got to him," O'Sullivan says. "He just had an off day. He'll probably never have another off day like this again. In golf, you just can't afford to have eight three-put greens like he had." 
Next Sunday, Monday and Tues­day, the Irish golfing contingent travels to the Midwestern City Con­ference Championships at the French Lick Golf Resort in French lick, Ind. Notre Dame finished third at this tournament last year behind Oral Roberts and Oklahoma City, both of which have full-scholarship golf programs. 
The Irish will play 54 holes during the three-day tournament and com­pete against the eight other schools in the conference. Junior Steve Fuh­rer, winner of the Notre Dame Open, will be a sixth Notre Dame golfer at the conference champion­ships, giving the Irish four first-time golfers at the MCCC. 
By next week at this time O'Sullivan should have a better ide~ of just how talented his team really is. 


-~----------------~ ---­
------------------------------~~--~---,_-----~---------------------------~~--------------~----~ 
T0 day____________________
w_e_d_n_e_s_d_a..y,_s_e_p_te_m_b_er-26_,_1_9_8_4__P_a_g_e_l_l 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 





Tank McNamara 
llDVf Ti-/[ ~0: 
NAPtli.J.1 tN 11-1~ 
MCf2NING! 


The Daily Crossword 
33 Actor Ron and 68 Rugged rocks ACROSS family 69 Hunted animals 1 Show derision 35 Metric measure 70 2-year-old dears 6 Rhyme scheme 39 Bondage 71 Harness parts 10 Salvador ­41 Endowed with 14 Novice 43 Realtor's sign 15 Nail 44 Unfeigned
16 Mythological poet DOWN 46 Path 1 Wrangle 
17 Bring down 47 Experiment 2 Havana's land 18 Nimbus 49 Md. town 3 Hyallte 19 Western 51 Land of Plenty 4 Speculator 
indians 54 Supposition James 20 Discussed 56 Litany Is one 5 Swindle 22 Stark 57 Disclosed 
6 Loathe 23 Anxiety 63 Too bad! 7 Prowess 24 Win the support 64 Kimono sashes 8 Large bundle of 9 Idolizer 
10 Ambiguous26 Family member 65 Not a soul 
language30 Carnival show 66 Antitoxins 
11 Mongolian32 Tract 67 Basin 
mountain 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
50 Start on a 58 Rose's man 
course 59 Adriatic wind 51 Snatch 60 Soil 52 Tanker 61 Playwright 53 Gaze rudely William 55 Office furniture 62 Bad-to you! 
Tuesday's Solution 


Student Activities Board 
IRTY HARRY WEEK continues tonight 
Engineering Auditorium '1.00 
Tomorrow night-MAGNUM FORCE 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 Friday & Saturday-SUDDEN IMPACT 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 $$$$$$$$$$"'$ 
Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds t.-lt-liMGtJI 
1 ~ n.IE. stv1W..a= 

1../NI~~~~ IN 1~ 
_MO~IIJ& .. 


12 Sly looks 13 Decorative 
garment part 21 Intrepid one 25 Eyrie 26 Soundly 
27 Singer Guthrie 28 Greenish-blue 29 Be In charge 31 Bewildered 34 Constellation 36 Coupd'­37 City on the 
Truckee 

38 Place of bliss 40 Raison d'­42 Rest 45 Slurring over a 
syllable 48 Farthest from surface 
Campus 
•12 
-1 p.m. -Organizational Meeting, 0-C Hockey, ACC Ice Rink. 

•3:30 
-4:30 p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Macintosh, Second Session, Room 104 CCMB, Available to Public, Free. 

•4 
p.m. -Mathematical Colloquium, "Thorn's Conjective and Some Topologically locally Flat Surfaces in the Complex Projective Plane," Prof. lee Rudolph, Mathematical Sciences Research , Room 226 CCMB. 

•4:
1 5 p.m. -Philosophy Lecture, "How are Philosophical Arguments Possible?" L ]. Cohen, Queens College, Oxford, England, Room 122 Hayes Healy. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "The Search for Cafimir Forces in Atomic Helium: An Update," Prof. Stephen Lundeen, ND, Room 1 18 Nieuwland. 

•6: 
15 p.m. -Meeting, Circle K, Center for Social Concerns. 

•7 
p.m.-Wednesday Night Film Series, "The lady Eve," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.-SAD Film, "The Enforcer," Engi­neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi­ties Board. 

•
7 p.m. -Organizadonal Meeting, ND Student's for Reagan-Bush, 215 O'Shaughnessy, All Inter­ested Students Are Welcome. 

•
7 p.m. -Meeting, OrganizationofCamping Trip, Flanner Penthouse, Sponsored by Environmental Concerns Organization. 

•7 
p.m. -Orientation Meeting, Volunteers Needed to Help Preschoolers, Haggar College Cen­ter -SMC, Sponsored by Head Start. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Gennan Club Meeting, LaFortune Main Floor, Sponsored by German Club. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Thomas More Society of ND Lecture, "Why John Paul II's Insistence on the Return to Confession," Bishop Joseph Crowley of South Bend, little Theatre, Lafortune , Sponsored by Pope John Paul II lecture Series. 

•8 
p.m. -Organizational Meeting, Hiefer Project International, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns, $10 Deposit for Fall Trip. 

•8 
p.m.-Presentadon%Reception, Accountancy Seniors, Main Hurdman , Notre Dame Room, Mor­ris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, Free. 


TV Tonight 
8:00p.m. 16 Facts ofUfe 
28 Dynasty 
34 Great Performances 
8:30p.m. 16 It's Your Move 
9:00p.m. 16 St. Elsewhere 
28 Hotel 

WITH 
7:00 9:00 11:00 
RECORD STORE 


In Lafortune 
Stop by and check it outll 

------c:-:,-:.--:""....,.___~----------·----­
Wednesday, September 26, 1984 -page 12
S~orts 
'Doctor's orders' 

help football 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! 
You can now take the Irish football team off the critical list and 
move them into the improving category. 
S;nurday afternoon's rout of Colorado seemed to be just what the 
doctor ordered for Gerry Faust's Fighting Irish and their fans, as a 
"wave" of confidence rolled througl1 Notrt: Dame Stadium. The 
Irish, who had been looking very ill in previous weeks, snapped out 
ofit in convincing style by using clinical execution to bury the Buf­
faloes. 

Now the question is why are the Irish looking so much better in their last six quarters ofplay than in their first six? Part of the reason stems from the fact that Colorado just was not as good a football team as Purdue or Michigan State, but that is not the only explanan­tion. It seems as though the good doctor has reached into his black · bag and pulled out a few medications for the Irish, and some ofthem 
appear to be working. For instance .. _ 
Take a pass on first down and call me in the end zone_ .. Steve 
Beuerlein has been tremendous at quarterback, but part of the rea­
son for his success stems from a new-found unpredictability in the 
Irish offense. Purdue didn't exactly need jeanne Dixon to know the 
Irish were going to run on first down, but that has changed in recent 
weeks. 

On 1 0 occasions over the last two weeks, Beuerlein has passed on 
first down. On four drives when Notre Dame threw on first down, 
the Irish scored. The Irish have taken advantage of linebackers 
keying on Allen Pinkett, and that's one of t.he reasons Beuerlein has 
been so effective. 
Avoid hazardous turnovers . .. This is the simplest reason for the 
resurgence of the Irish. In the first six quarters of 1984, the Irish 
treated the football as though it had some kind ofdisease, turning the 
ball over nine times. Now the Irish offense is treating the football like 
it was a steady girlfriend, holding on and never letting go. Notre 
Dame has not turned the ball over once in the last six quarters and 
now seem to realize that the football field is no place for generosity. 
Restyour secondary by rushing tbe passer . .. Opposing quarter­
backs have not been riddling the secondary in the last two games, 
mainly because the secondary has received some help from the de­
fensive line. After recording only one sack against Purdue, the "Gold 
Rush" has come to life with six sacks in two weeks. Now opposing 
signal-callers do not have the luxury of waiting for a receiver to get 
open, and the result has been a much more effective Irish pass 
defense. 

One reason for tbe improved play of tbe Notre Dame football team in tbe last game-and-a-balf opponents by passing on first down several times. bas been tbe lack of turnovers by players sucb as In bis column on this page, Cbuck Freeby describes quarterback Steve Beuerlein and tailback Allen the team's situation as it prepares for Saturday's 
Pinkett. Beuerlein also bas surprised Notre Dame's game at Missouri. 
Saint Mary's basketball coach resigns amidst budget controversy 
Student fans make the grade 
Tiger Tidbits... Missouri is known as the "Show-Me State," as in a Tiger fan's plea to "show me some victories." The Tigers are 1-2 entering this week's action, following a 47-30 win over Mississippi State last weekend. The frustration in Columbia stems from seeing a comeback fall short against Illinois in the season opener, then blowing a 28-7 fourth quarterlead against Wisconsin one week later. However, last week's win proved there is still hope for Missouri, and the Tigers will be looking at this game as though it were a bowl matchup. 
The toughest task for the Irish will be stopping Missouri's high­powered offense. The Tigers are fifth in the nation in total offense, averaging 475 yards per game and scoring 35 points an outing. Walk­on Marlon Adler is likely to start at quarterback, and he will offer the Irish the challenge ofa mobile quarterback. When Adler goes to the air, he will look for flanker George Shorthose or split ends Andy Hill and Adrian McBride. 
On the ground, Mizzou has used its depth well. Tailback Jon Redd is the main man for the Tigers, averaging 5.9 yards a carry. When it's close to the end zone though, look for bruising fullback Eric Drain to get the call. Drain carried for three touchdowns last week, and it will be up to the Irish defense to plug Drain near the goal line. 
Defense is something the Tigers have been lacking. Missouri has been giving up acreage to their opponents, especially against the pass, and it has led to a plethora ofscoring. Ifthe Tigers are going to shut the Irish down, they will need a big game from linebacker Tracey Mack and free safety Anthony Frazier. 
Pick ofthe Week. .. Since we have already discussed the pleasant topic ofwhat is right with the Irish, it's time to move on to the "Pick of the Week". There's no doubt that it is high time to shine the spot­light on Coach Dennis Grace and his Irish soccer team. 
The Irish kickers are flying high in Grace's first year, entering tonight's game at Loyola with a 6-1-1 record. The Irish will return home for your chance to see them this weekend, playing host to DePaul under the lights of Cartier Field on Friday night at 8:00, before entertaining St. Joseph's at Alumni Field Sunday at 2:00. The action is always exciting, so don't miss out on any of it this weekend. 
By MARK B. JOHNSON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Amidst confusion and contro­versy concerning the budget al­lotted to his program this season, third-year coach Mike Rouse resigned yesterday as mentor of Saint Mary's up-and-coming basket­ball team just days before practice was scheduled to begin. 
"This was a very difficult decision for me to make," explained Rouse,· "but we are talking about a top na­tional college not being able to run a basketball program." 
The last three-plus years ofNotre Dame football have been a real test for all involved with the program, in­cluding the players and fans. As far as grades go, nobody has done very well. 
The football team's grades have ranged from poor to mediocre fur the most part. The coaches have scored even a little lower as they have not used their vast supply oftalent very well. 
The media coverage, so important in maintaining the Notre Dame mystique, does not deserve a very high score, either. There has been some wild speculation about potential coaches like Howard Schnellenberger (who doesn't have a prayer ofcoaching at NO). Some of the national media, especially the Chicago papers, have been brutal and unfair at times. And, finally, there has been quite a deal of candy-coated coverage by some of the local media who can't afford to get on the school's bad side. 
Then, there are the many Notre Dame fans-in partic­ular the students -who quickly are improving their grade as the 1984 season progresses. 
The students have changed quite a bit since the beginning of the 1981 season. At that point, the stu­dents were used to big seasons, major bowl games and the hope ofa national championship. Three years later, the students still hope for a national championship, but they now realize that big seasons and major bowl games are things not to be assumed. 
It's taken a tough few years for the students to realize this. 
At first, when the team began losing regularly and even finished with a losing record, everyone acted like it was just a bad nightmare. The 1982 season woke everyone up and showed them that it was no dream, that Notre Dame can, indeed, lose, and lose frequently. It was this realization that began the students and other fans on what has been an emotional roller-coaster ride. When the team won, people got very excited and started dreaming ofold times. When the team lost, the disappointment was very great. 
This point has been made before, though. What has changed is that people, especially the students, are fi­nally starting to get control of their emotions. 
The last three weeks have been a great example. In the past, a loss to Purdue would have h;td the students 
According to Rouse, the athletic department informed him and the other Saint Mary's coaches of this year's budget division in a meeting last Thursday. The budget had been approved prior to this year by Erin Lorenz, former Director of Athletics and Recreation, and is now being firmly upheld by Dr. Jo Ann Nester, Lorenz's replacement. 
Problems arise in three major areas for Rouse, including the exclu­sion from the budget of funds for a bus driver, for recruiting, and for a full week of practice before the Na­tional Catholic Basketball Tourna-
Mike Sullivan 
Editor 


howling just like they did after the Michigan State and Miami losses last year. However, this year, there was little reaction besides the usual disappointment of a loss. Meanwhile, the national media and alumni were going crazy. 
The same level-headedness seems to have prevailed this week despite the impressive score of the Colorado game. Fifty-five points is quite a high number, even higher than the 52 points the Irish scored against Purdue last year. However, nobody is putting much im­portance on the final score. The Buffaloes are a battered team, physically and emotionally, and it is understan­dable that they got wiped out by a better team. It was a good confidence-builder for the players, but that's about all. 
What's going to decide whether this is going to be an outstanding season for Notre Dame are the next two weeks. If the Irish can beat both Missouri and Miami, they deserve to be in the top ten. Otherwise, a finish in the second ten is probably the best Notre Dame can hope for. 
Missouri, despite its I-2 record, is going to be tough to beat in Columbia. The Tigers realize that a win over Notre Dame could turn their season around. A loss, with Nebraska and Oklahoma still ahead on the schedule, would probably finish them off. 
Miami should be even tougher to beat as the Hur­ricanes will get two weeks off(ifyou don't count Satur­day's toughie against Rice) to think about their 38-3loss to Florida State this past weekend. They also realize that hopes for a major bowl are riding on the game. But, then, the Irish can't afford to think about that now. 
Notre Dame has reached No. 19 in the country by playing consistent, intense, aggressive football. The Irish can go much higher in the polls, if they can keep playing that way. Maybe then, too, their grades can im­prove as much as the grades of the students. 
ment after Christmas vacation. 
Analyzing these three areas separately, Rouse finds the same_ problem as their mutual cause: the unwillingness of Saint Mary's to spend the money that is necessary to field a varsity basketball team, let alone a competitive one. 
In past years the coaches have had the option to drive to away contests, an option that Rouse has never taken because he feels strongly that it is not a part of his job and that it is definitely not called for at the col-
see ROUSE, page 10 

The Notre Dame football schedule became a little clearer yes­terday when it was announced that ESPN would televise the Notre Dame-Miami game on October 6. The live national telecast will push the starting time of the game to 6:45 p.m. A portable lighting system will be brought in for the game. 
The game will be the fourth Irish home game in the last three years to use the portable lights. Notre Dame beat Michigan under the lights, 23-17, in the 1982 season opener, while losing to Penn State that same year and Pitt last season in late-afternoon games. 
Also announced yesterday was the public sale of a number of South Carolina general admission tickets. The tickets, which go on sale tomorrow for S16 each, were part of South Carolina's original allotment 



