Sidewalk circus page? 

VOL XVIII, NO. 122 
A bartender and waitress smile for tb_e camera at cause the property owners would not renew the lease. Raffer~y·s, which is shutting down its bar as new The newownerssay they willkeep the nameRafferty's, ownership takes control. Bartender Bob Holloway but will operate solely as a restaurant. Story below. said the main reason the nightclub is closing is be­

Rafferty's scheduled to shut down; operators unable to repay debts 
ByMARYCAROLCREADON 

News Staff 
Rafferty's in the East Bank Center at 401 E.Colfax will make its last call for alcohol on Saturday, April 14. 
According to Bob Holloway, a bar­tender at Rafferty's since last Oc­tober. the nightclub is closing because the property owners will not renew the lease. "Another fac­tor," Holloway said, "may have been that the operators have not been able to repay the debts they assumed from the previous owners." 
Ironically, Holloway says that "the bar is making very good profits and would be successful ifit were not for the large debts it had from the begin­ning." He added, "The managers have done a great job running Raf­ferty's. They just have problems with the property owners and the creditors of the original owners." 
The shareholders of Rafferty's on 
the Race, Inc. and managers of the 
restaurant and bar are Larry Wech­
ter, Steve Wechter, and Bruce 
Bartone. 
In November, 1982 by Chapter 11 
reorganize the business. Their ef-people it attracts," said junior forts were unsuccessful, according Gretchen Grieb. "It's also a great to a March 30 article in the South place to dance and go to with a date. &nd Tribune, "so the operators I think it's too bad that Rafferty's is concluded that a voluntary liquida-closing since there's no other bar tion of the business is the only way like it." Senior Tom Preston said, "I to repay creditors." think Rafferty's is a really nice place. In a meeting between the· It's a change from the local bars that 
managers and employees, Holloway said,"the main reason for closing down was that the property owners would not renew the lease." The other reason given, says Holloway, was that the facility has a restaurant and liquor license but is required 
that 75 percent of its gross revenue comes from food alone. Holloway estimates a very large percentage of the gross revenue is from liquor sales, "thus invalidating the res­taurant license." Bankruptcy was not one of the reasons given the employees. 
Holloway added that, according to manager Bartone, the space will be made into a restaurant after April 14 and the new owners will keep the name "Rafferty's". 
Some Notre Dame students 
expressed disappointment with the 

of the federal bankruptcy code, the closingofRafferty's bar. "Rafferty's is courts provided them with protec­about the only nice bar around be­tion from creditors so they could cause of the atmosphere and the 


Murray, Roemer pick Senior Bar managers 
By SARAH HAMILTON 
News Editor 
M.J. Murray, director of the Senior-Alumni Club, was looking for "good quality people" in the three student managers she hired for the 
1984-85 school year. After in­terviewing approximately 40 ap­plicants, Murray and Dean of Students James Roemer selected John Bowie, general manager; Kath­leen Conley, club/promotion manager; and Charlie Moore, food/supply manager. 
Bowie is a junior marketing major from Boston. Mass. As general manager, Bowie will be responsible for most of the scheduling of employees, and the ordering of liq­uor and soft drinks. He will work closely with Murray and the other managers and will rotate with the other two student managers as 
nightly managers ofthe club. 
Conley, a Saint Mary's junior from St. Louis, Mo., is majoring in English Literature and Writing. Her respon­sibilities will include booking Senior Bar for club nights, coordinating all music in the club, and publicity. 
A finance major, Moore is a junior from Vero Beach, Fla. He will be in 


See BAR, page 4 

students go to most often." 
THURSDAY, APRIL 5, 1984 


Fanfare marks op_ening of Mock Convention 
By MARY HEILMANN 
News Staff 
Amid fanfare and political 

'rhetoric, the 1984 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Mock Political Convention opened last night at Stepan Center. 
Speeches by Congressional Aide Gary Caruso, former Ohio Represenatative Ron Mettl, Notre Dame law professor John Gilligan, and William Mondale, son of Democratic presidential candidate Walter Mondale, highlighted the event. 

Convention Chairman Tom O'Leary emphazised in his opening ·address that one of the convention's goals is to "have fun," and in­troduced Caruso, the opening speaker, as a man who keeps that goal in mind. 
Caruso, a Notre Dame graduate, called the half-empty delegations to overcome the apathy which he believes is characteristic of the United States political scene. He said the U.S. "consistently has the lowest voter turnout ofany country except one-Botswana." 
"We are special for having at­tended Notre Dame," he said. "We are not poor, we are not uneducated 
-we are almost forced into a posi­tion of influencing the world. You demand Cap'n Crunch or Lucky Charms cereal on your breakfast table; why not take a stand on issues ofworldwide importance?" 
Caruso, who received a standing ovation, closed with, "This conven­tion goes beyond who we are and what we vote. It challenges each of us." 
William Mondale, campaigning for his father, followed Caruso and emphasized "the depth of ex­perience and compassion" of the Mondale campaign. 
"We need a Democrat who is going to go into that office and fight for peace," he said. "Walter Mondale brings compassion to that office. He believes in the ideals which bring us together as a community, a family, and a country." 
Mondale then fielded questions from several delegates concerning the Middle East, national defense, and his father's stance on abortion, described as a "crucial issue" to the Notre Dame community. 
After Mondale, keynote speaker Ron Mottl, also a Notre Dame alumnus, spoke. His briefcomments 
!~
were merely an endorsement of John Glenn and he asked the delegates "not to overlook plain old middle-of-the-road competency" in their vice presidential nomination. 
Notre Dame law Professor John 
Gilligan closed the evening with, 
"the development of a just 
society ...should still be the goal of 
the Democratic party, as it has been 
through our long and honorable his­
tory. If economic and social justice 
See MOCK, page 3 



Mondale emphasizes his father's compassion, search for future 
By TIMOTHY GIANOTTI 
News Staff 
Walter Mondale's presidential campaign champions "compassion, caring, the search for future and the search for fairness," said the Democratic hopeful's son William before last night's Mock Conven­tion. 
Drawing on his father's 30-year political career as an attorney general, senator and vice president, Mondale pointed out his candidate's experience and dedication, boasting "a strong foundation for the future." 
"I feel that I have got a strong can­didate to work with," Mondale said. "He puts his money where his mouth is." 
Tuesday's victory in the "very im­portant state of New York" was a shot in the arm for the campaign and put Mondale in a "very good posi­tion" for a showdown with Colorado senator Gary Hart, said the 21-year­old spokesman. 
Mondale did mention, however, that the race remained "very close" and that the competition would be no pushover. 
"In the beginning," he said, "we 
thought this primary would be a 
100-yard dash for Walter Mondale." 
They soon discovered some tough 
opponents, he said, namely Gary 
Hart. 
Young Mondale said Hart's begin­
nings were very good and his "pitch 
for new ideas" was fresh and appeal­
ing upon first impression, but he is 
confident that it will not hold up, saying that it has already begun to "peter out." 
He made several references throughout the evening to Hart's in­consistency, focusing on six dif­ferent statements concerning the arms race released by the Hart cam­paign thus far. 
His father's "strong and consis­
tent" record is the  most  effective  
counter  to  Hart's  shaky  stance,  
Mondale said.  
Concerning  the  nuclear  arms  

issue, young Mondale says his father 
realizes that "bullying" is not as powerful or as effective as arbitra­tion and cooperation. 
"We need a president who will go into that office and fight for peace," Mondale said. 
Concerning .the abortion issue, Mondale insisted, "My father does not favor abortion," although the campaign remains pro choice. "It is not the government's place," he said, to dictate to the people how to act on this issue. 

Hart leader in random poll just ahead of undecideds 

By KRISTINE WIDERQUIST 
News Staff 

Gary Hart was the leading nomination candidate in a poll taken of 
delegates at the Mock Convention last night. Undecided delegates 
ran a close second. 

Ofa random survey of 234 student delegates Hart pulled 67 votes 
for 28.6 percent of the total. Undecided delegates made up 26. 1 
percent with 61 votes. 

Reubin Askew, no longer a candidate, came in third with 47 votes, 
or 20.1 percent. Walter Mondale, one of the leading national 
Democratic candidates, struggled to the fourth position with 24 
votes, 10.3 percent of the electorate. 
Jesse Jackson, the only other Democrat still in the race, received 
12 votes ( 5.1 percent). John Glenn. Ernest Hollings, George 
McGovern and Edward Kennedy garnered 3.4. 2.9, 2.6 and 0.9 per­
cent respectively. 

The delegates will have an opportunity to vote for their choices 
when the Mock Convention chooses its Democratic presidential 
candidate at tomorrow night's session. 
The Observer Thursday, April 5, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief . Yesterday's donut could be 
AIDSresear<1I in Boston has uncovered a key, potential­ly treatable, defect in the immune systems of AIDS victims, strengthening the hope that interferon will be the first effective medicine for the lethal disease. The researchers found that AIDS victims do not produce a substance called gamma interferon, a vital link in the body's intricate defenses against disease. Doctors hope to rearm thc.,immune systems of AIDS victims by giving them extra doses of this interferon. So far, more than 3,SOO Americans have been stricken with AIDS, and more than 1,300 ofthem have died.­
AP 
Thirteen million tomato seeds, cosmic ray 
lll'tcctors and other experiments will be carried aloft on the shuttle, then cast adrift on a ~0-foot rack to circle the earth until another space t.:rew picks them up I 0 months from now. By the time the 1.2-sided, I 1-ton rack is retrieved next February, it will have been pounded hy meteorites, hlasted by cosmic rays, and corroded by atomic oxygen -all phenomena of great interest to scientists as tht·y plan space stations. -AP 
Normal ratsdon't live as long as those allowed to feast or those forced to starve, two Notre Dame researchers from the I.obund Laboratory reported yesterday at a presentation before the Ft·dcration of American Societies for Experimental Biology. Normal rats live about 700 days while those which ate as much as they desired lived to an average of I ,OSO days. Another group was main­tained on a dietary intake about 70 percent of normal and lived at ll'ast I, I 00 days. According to the report, the scientists are still attempting to explain the phenomenon. -AP 
The Wife Of former Interior Secretary james G. Watt says she became so upset by critical remarks about her husband that she tried to avoid being recognized in public and refused to use charge cards listed in his name. In her book -"Caught in the Con­flict: My Life with james Watt", Leilani Watt recounts her reaction to the unremitting controversy that surrounded her husband's three­year Cabinet term, her dismay over what she calls "hammering" by the news media, and the loneliness of life with a man who was 
consumt·d by his job. -AP 
India's first cosmonaut and his two Soviet col­leagues docked thdr spacecraft with an orbiting space station yes­terday to begin a month that will include weightless yoga exercises. Soviet television and the official news agency Tass said the Soyuz T-1 I linked up with the Salyut 7 2'; hours after the Soyuz T-1 I blasted off from Soviet central Asia. Radio Moscow said the six cos­monauts planned a dinner to celebrate the international crew's ar­rivaL The radio did not say, however, whether Rakesh Sharma, the ~S-yt·ar-old Indian cosmonaut, and his Soviet colleagues would try out the curry and mangoes the international crew carried into space. 
-AP 
Of Interest 
The Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh 
has been awarded the National Academy ofSciences Public Welfare Medal. Tht· medal, signifYing "his deep understanding of the impor­tance of science in the contemporary world and his effective ad­vocacy of the application ofscience and technology in dealing with critical societal problems," according to the academy citation, will be awankd to llcsburgh April ~0 at the academy's 121 st annual meeting in Washington. -AP 

Weather 
Cloudy, windy and coldtoday with a 3<> percent chance of light rain of drizzle. High in the low to mid 40s. Partial ckaring and cold tonight. low in the upper .20s to around ~0. Mostly sunny and cool on Friday, high in the upper 40s to around SO. -AP 
The Observer 
The Ob,ervt·r (I Sl~ 'ilJ'i l· oOOO} " puhli!<~ht.·d \-1undJy throu~h f·r1day a.ml on homt.· footh.ll1 ~atun.lay'. t.'Xt.t'Pl durin).t t'xam Jnd vacation pl·riod!-.. The Observer b puhh,hnl h~ lht• !'!tudc.:nt!'!of lht.· l'lll\'l'f~H~ of Notn· Dame: Jllll ~a1n1 \l.uv·., <ullt'}r(l'. ~uh~tTlption!'-1 nuv ht· purdla!'lnJ for S!'; pt•r ~t·ar ( st.c;. pt:r 'l'lllt''l<:r) hv v. riting The Observer. P < > Box Q. Notn·l>anu·, lndiJila ·l6c;';c, 
The Ob,rrver '·'a m•·mhn ofThe As-S<)l'iated Press. All n·prudut·tion righh .1rc.· n·..,t·rvt·d 
• • •,. "'"'•,.• • • .....·_._._._._. _. _. ·....;'•'....;•....;'-'....;•;_;·;...____..;;.J.;.f.;.•''..;;·'..;;·'.::··~ '.• •I' • I • • • I • I. I • 1 • • • 1P • I. 1 • 1. 1-.•t • 
Today's issut· wa.... product"d hy: 
Production Consultant ........ Steve Foster Design Editor.............................. Tom Small Design Assistant ........... Maureen Murphy 
Lui'OUt Staff...  . ......... l.isa and Janna  
TJ•fJesetters  ............Carol and Ted  
News Editor....  .... Marc Ramirez  
Copr l:'clitor.  .. ........John lkasly  

Sport.< Co/J)·I:'ditor.... .. ..... Phil Wolf Vit•u•pointl.a)'nut .. . ....... Mary Dolan Ft•aturesCop)•Etlilor .... ......... Mary tkaly Featurt•s l.uyout .................... Mar")' Healy 
ND JJuy Editor... .Mdim.la Moore SMC Day Ht/itor.... ....... Maggie O'Connell A.tllh!sign.. .. ........... Boh Slota Pbotogrupher ... . ...... Bill Grojean 


a reminder for tomorrow 
That donut you threw away at breakfast may come back to haunt you. 
Courtesy of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's World Hunger Coalition, the food wasted at yesterday's lunch and dinner and today's breakfast is making a second ap­pearance at the dining halls today. 
If you arc eating at North Dining Hall, you probably noticed the clear plastic bins filled with wasted food outside the building. Another bin will be placed outside South Dining Hall tonight during dinner hours. Similar displays arc planned at Saint Mary's. 
These bins arc another attempt by the coalition to make us aware ofhow much food is wasted. 
Last semester, coalition members counted how much food was wasted and posted the results. A month later, another count was taken and no substantial dif­ference was found. 
Since just telling us how much food is wasted did not substantially decrease food waste, the coalition decided to literally show us how much is wasted. "We'd like to make people more aware of how much food is wasted,"said Kevin Moser, a coalition member involved in the project. "The food count was just statistics to a lot ofpeople." The bins should certainly make people aware that food is being wasted, but will they cause people to change their eating habits? ''I'd like to be optimistic," said Moser. "I think it's worth a try. The food count didn't seem to work." It seems unlikely that this latest attempt to decrease waste will help either. Some were annoyed by the food count, claiming that what they eat or don't eat is their own concern. It is probable that even more people will be annoyed by the bins. Not only does this project ask people to change their eating patterns, but the sight of a day's worth of organic garbage is offensive to some. In fact, the bins may actual­ly alienate some people from the coalition. But the coalition stresses their message is not to be found in the bins themselves, but in the sheets dis­tributed at the meals where the bins are displayed. "We're definitely expecting to get some flak from this," said Moser. "Some people think wasting food is a personal matter. I don't think it is." Regardless of viewpoint, some people do consider what and how they eat a personal matter. Although most would agree that waste is a problem, a certain amount is inavoidable. Although the coalition's goal of cutting down on food waste is admirable, is displaying 

You 
Can be a Navy Pilot 
Must be qualified college graduate or be within 18 months of graduation, under age 29 (30 for veterans) 
There are other Navy career opportunities available in: *Systems Inventory Management *Acquisition Contracting 
* 
Computer Systems 

* 
Financial Management 

* 
Nuclear Engineering 

* 
Flight Surgeon 


Starting Salary $17,500 plus medical benefits, travel, and rapid advancement. FOR MORE INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL: 
Navy Officer Programs at 
1-800-382-9782 
Navy representative will be ON CAMPUS 10·12 April at the placement office. 

Amy Stephan 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Thursd 
wasted food ouside the dining halls the best way to achieve this goal? 
Perhaps not. But even ifone is offended by the bins, it is important not to let one's initial reaction of "This is gross!" interfere with the coalition's message. 
Few students see any relation between how much food they waste in the dining hall and the problem of world hunger. After all, what docs the donut on my plate have to do with starving children in India? 
"Directly, it does not," says a sheet distributed by the coalition. "However to ef­fectively address the problem of world hunger, the change needs to begin with the individual. We have the privilege ofbeing able to waste food. Let's not abuse that privilege out of con­venience. Can we afford to waste food in a world where people are starving?" 
"I think that sometimes if 
is graphically demonstrated it is more ef­fective in raising people's concerns," said Bill Hickey, director of Notre Dame's food services, who gave per­mission for the demonstra­tion. Hickey said he realizes the display may be offensive to some people, but told the coalition that ifthey thought it would help reduce food waste, he would support it. Coalition members themselves realize some may be offended by the bins, but they are willing to take that criticism. "We don't want to offend anyone," said Moser. "We want people to realize how much food is being wasted .. .If it doesn't help, then it doesn't. We feel it's worth a try." So if you are offended by the reappearance of this morning's donut, you can turn your head as you leave the dining hall. The coalition only hopes that tomorrow morning you'll think twice before grabbing that extra donut. 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 


Senate refuses to limit president 

MAKE MONEY IN COLLEGE 
Earn $185to $475 weekly, working with MCL and Associates We have alot of part-time and full-time positions available in your area. We are a small, yet rapidly expanding marketing research firn based in the New York Metropolitan area. For complete details and an application, please send a stamped, self-addressed envelope to MCL and Associates, Post Office Box 579, Ithaca New York 14851 

1984 Notre Dame 
Mock Convention 
continues 
Tonight.... .  . ... 6:00pm  
Friday night ... .  . ....... 7:00pm  
Sat. afternoon ..  . . 1:00pm  

in Stepan Center 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON D.C. -The Senate turned aside a move yesterday to restrict presidential power to send combat troops to El Salvador after a debate in which Democrats charged that President Reagan is likely to send fighting men into Central America within the next year. 
By a vote of59-36, the lawmakers rejected a proposal by Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., to bar the president from sending U.S. armed forces into El Salvador or Salvadoran airspace for combat unless Congress has declared specific authorization. 
Leahy said he made his move, as an amendment to an appropriations bill containing S61. 7 million in emergency military aid for the Sal­
'vadoran regime, because of his "clear conviction that we are going
21-year-old William Mondale, son ofDemocratic presidential 
to reach the point of having
candidate Walter Mondale, speaks to an audience at last night's 
American combat forces in El Sal­
session ofthe Mock Convention. Mondale said his father's victory 
vador within a year."
in the New York primary was a shot in the arm for the campaign, 
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass.,
butadmitted opponent Gary Hart would be no pushover. Story on 
told the Senate, "I do not trust that
pagel. 
this administration or the president will not move to commit American troops in El Salvador, and I am not prepared to take the risk."

SENIORS! The Reagan administration has said it has no plans to send fighting
Bids are still being extended 



troops to Central America, but has 
Thursday and Friday from 4:30-6:30 and 
resisted restrictions by Congress on: the president's power as comman­
Sunday from 6:00-8:00 in LaFortune/Lemans 
der in chief to order troops into ac­
Lobby. Second City tickets still available 
tion. 
Sen. Nancy Landon Kasselbaum, R-Kan., opposing the amendment, 
through Friday. Seating arrangements tor 
dinner also being made at the same times. 
said it was "dangerous to make as­sumptions such as that" and argued that the War Powers Act already gives Congress sufficient power over the deployment of U.S. troops abroad. 
That act says troops must be withdrawn from combat situations in 60 to 90 days unless Congress declares war or otherwise approves keeping them on the battlefield. 
Supporters of the Leahy amend­ment said this was not adequate. The amendment provided that the president would be able to send 
9" Green Screen 
Software Included: 
Easy to use Keyboard 
VAN LINES 

Wordstar Word Processor with numeric keypad 
Wordplus Spelling Proofreader Profitplan Spreadsheet Perfect Writer Word Processor Perfect Speller Perfect Calc Spreadsheet Perfect Filer Database Microsoft Basic 
Runs this weelend ~-Fri.~ Sat. -movies,
Parallel and Serial Interface 

shopping, dining~_,-UriiveJsity Park Mall and Town & Country. 50¢ riound trip. Pay as you
ABSOLUTELY 

board atND Circle, Grotto, SMC Holy Cross Circle 
Hourly departures begin at 5:00 on friday and
UNBEATABLE 
4:00 on Sat. 


troops without congressional aut­Earlier, Secretary of State George 
horization if there was danger of an Schultz, speaking at a gathering at 
attack upon the U.S. or if they were the State Department, urged swift 
needed to evacuate American action on the bill without any 
citizens. restrictions on the aid. 
It defined sending troops for com­For the most part, the Republican­
bat as sending them " for the 

controlled Senate has rejected all ef­purpose of delivering weapons of forts to place restrictions on the 
fire upon an enemy." It provided that resolutions 

military aid, such as requiring that authorizing the president to send 
Salvadoran courts obtain verdicts in troops would have to be acted upon 
cases ofAmerican citizens who have by both houses of Congress within nine days of their introduction, and been murdered in El Salvador or that could be acted upon in as little as the government put an end to right­three days. wing death squads. 

Two killed, 19 injured as buildings collapse 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Two adjacent buildings undergoing renovation collapsed yesterday on Manhattan's Lower East Side, killing two people, injuring 19 others and reducing it to "a big pile ofdirt," witnesses said. 
The dead men apparently were two members of a construction crew pouring concrete inside the vacant brick buildings wht:n they collapsed at 2:35 p.m., New York Fire Department officials said. 
Last week, the Buildings Commis­sion had ordered a safety inspection ofthe buildings. 
"Everything just came down ... It's a big pile of dirt," said Michael Cruz, an employee ofa nearby store. 
There were only I 0 workers believed to be inside the buildings when they collapsed, said Police Commissioner Benjamin Ward. 
"The dead men and three injured workers were pulled from the rubble," said Fire Lt. Frank Martinez. 
Of the 19 workers and bystanders who were ,injured, none were seriously hurt, said Jared Lebow, a spokesman for the city's Emergency Medical Service. 
Service on three subway lines was halted in the area for two hours, and police closed the Williamsburg Bridge. which conects Manhattan and Brooklyn over the East River. 

The collapse caused a 20-inch water main under the buildings to snap, sending cascades ofwater into the street and nearby sewers, said Andrew McCarthy of the city En­vironmental Protection Depart­ment. "It's chaotic," he said. "It's just a mess." 
Fire Lt. James Curran said the workers apparently were .pouring concrete, and that "apparently brought the two buildings down." 


Mock 
continuedfrom page I 
is to become a reality for every man, woman and child, of any back­ground, living in the United States, it will have to come through the cf. forts ofthe Democratic Party." 
The 'convention. held every four years to nominate the presidential candidate of the party out of power, continues tonight at 6:00 with speeches by Reverend Theodore Hesburgh. Democratic National Chairman Charles Manatt, and Louisiana Representative Lindy Boggs. Delegates will also amend and adopt the Notre Dame platform at this session. 
r ALL-LATEST 
'DIRECT 
SALES 
COMICS 
also hard to find back issues AVAILABLE THURSDAY AT 
6:00P.M. 
234-1038 
~JU\trJJ~JUll 
STORE 1346 E. MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND. 234-1031 O,.n: Met~.-TIIvn. ll-7. rri.lD-1, S.l. N 

Delegates, Faculty, Spectators ALL WELCOME 
The Observer Thursday, April 5, 1984 -page 4 
Bar 
continued from page I 
charge of the bar's entire food service operation, supplies, and the game room. 
food service is one of the major areas the new managers plan lO im­prove. The managers want to make Senior Bar a place whert" studt"nts will want to come and eat. "We're looking forward to greatly expand­ing food service," said Moore. 
Attt"ntion will also be directed to achieving a "broader range of programming to meet the entire needs ...of the university." Murray wants Senior Bar "to he more than just a bar." This includes scheduling more movies on the club's wide· screen television , planning mon: undergraduate non-alcoholic nights, and encouraging increased usc of the club by different groups. 
The Senior-Alumni Club is open Monday through Saturday, hut only Wednesday through Saturday as a bar for st·niors. The other two nights any stud.:nt club or organization can rent out the club for a nominal fee. If alcohol is to be served, all in atten­dann· must be at leas! 21 years old. 
One possibility Murray is considering for IYHS's springsemes­ter is opt·ning the dub. to under­graduates on Saturday nights. No alcohol would be served, hut all fat·ilitics would he available for their usc. 
Murray desnihed the Senior­Alumni Cluh as "a sc:rvice the Uni­

versity  provides  to  students,  in  
partkular,  tht·  sc:nior  dass.  It  
provide~>  a  healthy  alternative  to  

otht-r places in town." She mcn­tiont·d thc club's dance floor, diSl' jockcys and food as advantages St·nior Bar has over other local cs­tahlishmcnts. 
Rm:mt·r consider~ the Senior­Alumni Club a "decent and healthy and attractive: plan· for young men and women to sociali:r.e." lie rated tht· dance: floor the best on campus. 

The other dimension of tht" St·nior-Alumni Club is the oppor­tunity the dub affords alumni to meet with classmates. Murray com­mented on how crowded tht" bar is on football weekends. 
Bowie: said thc club's growth can bc attributed to Mark Ruhlmann,Jim Moriarty and Larry Cunningham. last year's student managcrs. "We hopc to expand on what they started." 

Rot•mt·r also cxpn·sscd apprcda­tion for the work of last year's nunagt·rs and said he has no doubt in his mind about this ycar's managers. Tlwy will convey the "pubc of what studcnts want." Mur­ray added that hccaust· new managns arc hired each year there is always a new sense: of creativity ami enngy. 
"The only prerequisite (for stu­dent manager) wa~> a good honest person," said Murray. As Murray dt·s<:rihnl, this is because the rcsponsihilitics of the jobs im:ludc enforcing tough policies and manag­ing a largt· amount of mont·y. The yearly rt·venuc of the Senior-Alumni Club is hetwt·en S I 7S,OOO and 
$200,000. 

At-cording to Murray, the job "teaches a lot about life. not just husin<.·ss." Roemer commt·ntt"d that it is an "intricate experi<:nn· run­ning a business that is also a scrvice." 
Bowie appltt·d for Senior Bar gt·neral manager because it would givt· him -the opportunity to do something he enjoyed, and also work with hi~> friend~>. It is "the bt·st of both worlds." said Bowie. Moore is anticipatinglearningabout himself and others. Conley looks at the job as a cham:e for them to givt· hack w their class. 
The nt·w managers will take charge of the dub the day of tht· Blue-Gold gamt·, April 2H, and offi­t'ially, during senior week. Before then, thcy must hirt· 20 bartenders, three kitchen workers and a main­tenance manager. All will he stu­dents. Applications for bartender arc available in the Student Activities Ofikt" in Lafortune. They must he returned hy friday. 
THURSDAY SPECIAL 3-BpmMixed Drinks 2 for 1 8-3am Corby Frisbee and Margarita .... $1.50 
Class of '86 

Anyone interested in Junior Class Council Positions, pick up applications in Student Activities Office 
Applications due Monday, April9 
~:~:::::::::::::::::::;:::::::~:·:~:;:~:~:::;:::::::::::::·:·:·:;:;::::::;:::::;:::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:::~:~:~:~:~:::~:::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::: 


free... 

DOMINO'S PIZZA ... 
AND 2 FREE COKES 
WITH OUR 

3-0AY MOVIE PACKAGE 
* 

3-DftYr A~9Yst~LA~~~v~~~~~~~24 95 
TAPE RECORDER AND 3 MOVIES ... ONLY Ahll WEll GIVE YOU ACOUPOK FOR AFREE DOMINO'S PIZZA & 2COKESI 
VIDEO DISC PLAYER ..alliiA'IJlii1UJillJUfWUlill~ 1'1»11 MOVIE/OVERNIGHT -'c. -_-, = J 1~ 
6

,_-~ , \ =PUYO !;rn-~ §. ~---+1 
. 11_ .Jj RENTALSLIGHTLY 
~ ­

: _
~

I~--iiijiii.:ii:i:lll:'~~ 
RCA VIDEO CASSETTE PLAYER 
South Bend North 
51400 U.S. 31 N. 
Clocktower Square 277-8872 
HIGHER 
OVERNIGHT & 3 DAY RENTALS ~ AVAILABLE PLUS !:::2:-, ~ 100's OF MOVIES ':..z:::f 


..CZJ'Qowe~ fprr aQQ occagiong~ ~ 
Come in and Browse 327 Lincolnway. .23:2-3354 

Restaurant and Lounge n 

c --233-7747~------l 
D.J. SPINNING Seven Days A Week! 
Mon.·Sat. 9 P.M.·1 A.M. Sunday 8 P.M.·12 A.M. 

Best Variety In Town



------couPON-----­
NO COVER Receive 2 for 1 with coupon 
valid thru 4-15-84 <? 

.........-~--~-.~.:::;:..==------­
JUNIORS 
SENIOR TRIP DEADLINE DEPOSITS DUE FRIDAY, APRIL 6 
Sign-ups in front of Student Activities Office in LaFortune: 
11:00 am to 1:00pm and 6:30 to 7:30pm Monday thru Friday 
~----------------1
1 Baseball Fans Unite!I I
1  Tuesday, April I 0  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
II I II I  White Sox vs. Cleveland $15 TICKET PRICE INCLUDES: * Game Ticket * Refreshments *Bus Ride Tickets available at SU Record Store Leaving 5:00pm &om Library Circle  I I1 1IIJ  

~-------~-------­
THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES PROGRAMMING BOARD NEEDS YOU! 
Accepting Applications For 
-Irish Gardens Manager -Darby's Place manager 
Applications available at the Student Activ· ities Board Offices on the 2nd floor of 
1 
LaFortune. 
§Applications due in by 4PM Friday, April 6th. 
l;.ccoo--...cr..r..r..r..r~~....oc::I""~...C: 

_____:_-:_:··.:._·_:·.:.:··:_:,·.:_:··;..:.·.:.:--:_:·:;..::··:_:-:_:··_:··:_:·_:··:_:··.:.:·-~-.:._:··:..:.,·.:_;··,.;.·:_:··...:...··:_:·...:...··:.:_·..:_:··~·..:_:··_..:...:...........:....:..--------------------:---~:--'"~------..• ·I· 
Thursday, April 5, 1984-page 5 ··,·
The Observer 

Moore, food/supply manager. All managers arejuniors. Story on page 1. 
of the new 
will be able to view the conference. It will feature, among others, Dr. 
Laundry Notice: To insure that all charges for special/express laundry, drycleaning and tailoring are able to be billed, all items picked up after April13, 1984 will be strictly on a cash basis. No charges to the students' accounts will be permitted. However, this does not apply to the regular student bundle service. Any amount over the bundle allotment will be billed on the next semester's in­voice. Seniors are reminded that their accounts must be billed prior to graduation, including overuse of bundle service. We will have balances owed, as a result of exceeding the laundry allotment, for seniors only, on May 10, '84. Any bundle input by a senior after that date may result in a negative balance which will require us to collect 
cash upon receipt of the bundle by the senior. 
SUMMER STOilAGI SPACB 
Special discount for RDISIIC student• 
(5 x 10 spaces and larger) 
CALL 259-0335 to BIISIRVISPACI SELF LOCK STORAGE Of MCKilfLIY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka 
Security Patrol Checks 



BEER 
Olympia
lP 
Stroh 
lP 
Bud Light 
LP 
Michelob or Mich Light
24bottles 
Pabst 
24bottles 
Miller Lite 
quarts 
Old Milwaukee 
Budweiser 
Budweiser 
haltbbl 
Michelob 
haltbbl 
Miller Lite 
halfbbl 
Old Style
haltbbl 
6.79 6.99 7.99 
8.99 6.99 7.99 
7.49 9.89 
31.99 37.99 31.99 27.99 
Everything
you
always
wanted
•
1na
lieer. 
And
less. 

TAP DEPOSIT NOW ONLY 
$30.00 
his 
par­
be 
will broadcast a picture that is about 12 feet in length." 
DesRosiers explained that the sig­nal will be transmitted to the Center for Continuing Education by a fiberoptic hook-up from WNDU. "We are very fortunate that WNDU possesses both a Down Link and an Up Link", she continued. "In a few years we may even hold our own teleconference." 
DesRosiers expects a full auditorium for the event. 
Researcher discovers new drug 
Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla.-A new anti-cancer drug stimulates the body's natural cancer-fighter, inter­feron, by safely mimicking a viral in­fection, a researcher said yesterday. 
Laboratory studies suggest that the artificially induced interferon will be more effective against can­cer than existing synthetic inter­ferons, which in early trials have produced mixed results against various forms of cancer, the researcher said. 
The first human trials in the United States to determine the safety of the drug have begun, said Dr. Paul Ts'o of theJohns Hopkins University School MHygiene and Public Health in Baltimore. Trials of the drug's ef­fectiveness at treating cancer in humans wm follow. 
The drug is one of a new class of so-called biological response modifiers, which attempt to provoke the body's defenses -in this case, interferon -to fight can­cer. Existing drugs are merely toxic agents intended to kill cancer cells. 
In studies with tumor cells taken from 50 patients, at least half of the tumor samples responded to the new drug, called Ampligen. 
The samples that responded were reduced in size by at least 50 per­cent, Ts'o said. He did not present data suggesting that the drug could completely eliminate tumor cells. 
The drug has been shown in human trial in other countries to be possibly effective in kidney and colon cancer. Liver cancer and stomach cancer are other likely tar­gets, said Ts'o, speaking at the annual American Cancer Society Science Writer's Seminar. 
He said it will likely take up to two years to test the drug against those cancers. 
He said a big obstacle to wide use of the drug is that it is toxic, causing fever and provoking an attack by the body's immune system. 
Trials have shown, however, that low doses can be effective without being excessively toxic, Ts'o said. 
The patent rights to Ampligen are owned by Johns Hopkins and have been licensed to HEN Inc. in Bet­hesda, Md., said Ts'o. 
Thursday, April 5, 1984 -page 7



Showcase 
Clowning it up for God 
S
lapstick fun, wirt·-walking, un-priest, Fr. Nick Wt:hcr, whose comic poodle, an Asian pheasant, a fox 
i<:ycling, juggling, down capers lines had the audience in stitches. from the Arctic Circle, and a spider and animal acts -it was all right Says Weber of his unique occupa­monkey. here on campus in the one-hour, tion, "To be a priest, you don't have Weber intersperses his acts with a 
one-quartt·r ring Royal Lichtenstein to ht: a clown. To he a down, you few fleeting messagt:s offaith. "I Circus. Yt·sterday the troupt· of p<:r· don't havt: to ht: a priest. But to he make an art of not laying my formal former.~ and animals invadt·d the old me, you have to bt: both priest and religious trip on people," he says. fiddhousc mall, and for one hour down." "But the show's purpose is "pre­
dozens ofstudt·nts forgot their Evt:ry year. from August to May, evangelical -to soften up people to acatkmic worries as they watdled Weher and two student assistants accept the surprise that God is the antics in ddighr. take "the world's smallest circus" to present ... in the temple, God is no The founder ami ringmastt·r of all mort: than I00 citks, travelling in a long<:r a surprise." this is (hdieve it or not) a .Jesuit camper jammed with props, a After a performance, Weher usual­

ly passes the hat -the circus receives no funds from the church­and then sponges bed and hoard from a local family. The jesuit order has giv.t:n his spt:cial calling its full blessing. 
A nun once wrote Wt:hcr asking how he could reconcile his priestly ministry with the circus. "What she didn't understand, he explains, "is that the circus is my ministry." 
No harm intended 

Social life • • • It's here somewhere 
selecting girls at random and asking them First ofall, it's hard to get good dates. campus, which would spell the end ofthe
by Joe Kapitan 

I
out. It was a valiant effort, and it would have Once you decide which girls (or guys) you SYR as we know it. features staffwriter worked ifl had anticipated the second major want to ask, you have to call them and pass The only solution is to create interesting problem we Domers face: there is a serious the dogbook test. This quite often involves and innovative alternatives to the generic 'm convinced the Notre Dame social life is lack ofsocial activities on campus. I sat lying about your picture (I was hung over, SYR. Case in point: My roommate recently a lot like Carroll IIall -some people say it down one night and after hours ofex­the lighting was bad, that's actually my attended Pasquerilla East's Monte Carlo exists, hut I haven't yet been able to finli it. I haustive contemplation came up with a dis­cousin Bill in the picture). Also, whether Night SYR. To protect his identity, I'll call tend to doubt it's being hiddt·n somewhere, appointingly short list which I imaginatively you pass the test or not, there are 100I him X, and refer to his date as Zero just like hut many upperclassmen have convinced titled "Three Things to Do on Campus." excuses for turning down a date, most of he did. Anyway, it seems that X and Zero did me something that small and inconspicuous Hopefully I will never have to resort to using which I have heard in my two years here. I'm not get along very well, which did not could easily he kept out ofsight. it, because I really don't want to ask a girl to not trying to be pessimistic, but the fact surprise me at all, but they did manage to 
On the otht·r hanli, certain administrative­help me do my laundry at Badin Hall on a remains that I usually don't have a good time have a good time because they had some­typt· individuals insist tht·re is indn·d a so­Friday night. at SYR's. thing to do besides listing each other's faults. da! life. hccaust· that is part of their joh. If The solution to this dilemma, in my This might be due to the fact that my dates Fortunately, X's luck was in that night and he tht·y do it right, the student body will never opinion, is to come up with new and in­often resemble Larry "Bud" Melman and won big money at the gambling tables. hn:omt· disgruntkd and demand un­novative party and dance themes. Now spend their spare time harassing the ducks Meanwhile, Zero was picking the pockets of reasonahlt· privikges like representation in things arc beginning to fall into place. Since along St. Mary's Lake. Or it could be that I the other couples in attendance. dt·tt·rmining University policy. Also, it helps wt· need to meet new people. why not try spend so much time trying to think up ways Soon, they were able to pool their money tht· ~ lnivt-rsity lure prospn:tive ND students. blind dating? Well, we already have, in the ofkeeping myselfoccupied that my date and "persuade" another guy to swap dates. 
This way, star athktes will commit them­form of the infamous SYR. Nice, hut notal­feels neglected. Eithe~ way, the evening al­He did not seem to mind the fact that he was selvt·s to Norrt· Dame hefore they rt·alize ways fun. I propose that some new themes ways ends up in one of three ways: receiving play money, which is a sad com­they've htTn had, which pleast·s the alumni could change a boring, unimaginative SYR A) We decide to call it an early evening mentary on his date. Anyway, to make a long so much they don't pay attention to the into an expcrit·nn·. How about a Harold B. and return to our own rooms, where we story short, tht:y exchanged dates and amount of money they donatt·. Nn·dlcss to Augustine Memorial Party Marathon, with drink out ofdisappointment, B) We decide everyone lived happily everafter for the rest say, the administration enjoys this greatly. If prizes to he given to those who regain con­to stick it out together, in which case we of the night. they wen· stupid t'llOugh to alimit thert· is no sciousnt·ss furthest away from campus? Or drink to pass the time, or C) We actually en­You can't ask for much more than that. I soda[ lift-, tht-y'li ht· obliged to remedy the mayhe something resembling a costume joy each other's company and don't have to sure can't. IfI recall, I spent that night in my situation, and that would cost money. party, whne the guests dress as their drink to have a good time. room waiting for a tall blonde bearinga pizza llt·avt·n forbid' So we arrivt· at our present favorite unidentifiable dining hall meat sub­Sure, C is my preference. but the laws of and a six-pack to knock on my door. She condition. which is still a mystny tom<:. stanct:. These arc just conct:pts, ofcourse. probability frown on the chance ofit never came. As it turns out, she was over in 
I know what you'rt· saying. You'rt· saying. Don't go out and try them yourselves, unless happening. A and B arc much mort: com­Badin I Ia(( doing laundry with a guy down "All thb guy dot·s is complain." Not true. I you invitt· me. monplace and result in too much drinking. the hall from me. Some guys have all the havt· analyznl tht· situation and pinpointed I realize my ideas will prohably cause which makes Fr. Beauchamp and other ad­luck. some major prohkms. For exampk: we quite a stir ht:causc Notre Dame means tradi­ministrative individuals very angry. Once don't havt· t·nough opportunities to meet tion. and tradition means not changing in­they become angry. they begin to retaliate My advice to you? Try to n1cet new peoph: nt·w pt·opk. Wt· all st-e tht· same old t-rowd stitutions likt· SYR's (especially if it involves hy telling us our choice for Senior Fellow is and invent creative new social activities. If in our daily routines. spending money). But let's he realistic -incligibk, or by adding a few new pages to that doesn't work. write to "The Love Con­
The so.lution. I dt·cidn!, is to go out of then· are a lot ofprohkms with SYR's as they DuLac. And to make matters worse, there is nn·tion." It can't be any worse than study­your way to mt·t·t people. I 1ril'd this hy exist today. the impending prohibition ofalcohol on ing. 
g 4!: · eM1R E*>!t'?""<e* hWC'$' '"" WN wp '!"\' '· ·. '}·. i . . ;... :n 1 '*·iii' WifLDBS'l-~"f ;o·. . Hi ; .: 



~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t___________________Th-ur-sda-y,_~_ru_s_,1_98-4--pa-ge-6 
Governor Lamm proposes economic cure 
Gary Hart is not the only politician from Colorado with new ideas. Last week, Gover­nor Richard Lamm suggested an approach to 
Joseph Murphy 
Wishful thinking 

reviving the American economy. 
Lamm said that medicine which allows some terminally ill people to live longer is destroying the nation's economy. "We've got a duty to die and get out of the way .... I'd take the money we could save in reforming the health-care system and put it into restart­ing America's industrial engine and in the education system," Lamm told a group of health lawyers. 
Lamm compared dying to "leaves falling off a tree and forming humus for the other plants to grow up." One easily could argue that Lamm is full of humus. 
What Governor Lamm does not realize is 
that human beings do not exist for the benefit 
of the economy. Instead, the economy exists 
for the people's benefit. 
Using the governor's logic, society can easi­ly eliminate such problems as poverty by tel­ling poor people they have a duty to kill themselves. Once society starts putting a material value on human life, as Lamm does, where does society draw the line? When does an individual's duty to die begin? 
A society which reduces human life to its value for the majority of human lives has en­tered the danger zone. Lamm has, for ex­ample, questioned spending thousands of dollars to educate mentally retarded children 
"when after four or five years all they do is roll 
over." 

Not content on attacking the dying, suppor­ters ofLamm's quality oflife position advocate giving the right to life only to those who are physically fit and able to help society. 
The case of Infant Doe represents an in­famous victory for those who hold the quality of life theory. This infant was born with Downe's syndrome. Infant Doe died shortly after he had obtained his right to life. Doctors, with his parents' consent, refused to perform needed, but not excessively dangerous, sur­gery which would have corrected his deformed esophagous. Infant Doe starved to death because those in control of his life deemed him unworthy oflife. 
Had Infant Doe not been mentally retarded, no doctor would have advised against the sur­gery since the choice not to act would have 
meant certain death. Thus, Infant Doe was 
refused surgery only because ofhis handicap. 
The alternative to the quality oflife position 
is a return to the traditional view which places 
life, no matter how great a. burden on society, 
as a priceless commodity. No one has a duty to 
die unless one first has a right to life. 
Pope John Paul II said in Washington D.C., "When a child is described as a burden or looked upon only as a means to satisfy an emo­tional need, we will stand up and insist that every child is unique and unrepeatable gift of God. When the sick, the aged, or the dying are . abandoned in loneliness, we will stand up and proclaim that they are worthy of love, care · and respect." 
Joseph Murphy is a freshman in Arts & Let­ters atNotre Dame and is the Assistant View­pointEditor at The Observer. 

P. 0. BoxQ  
Stop the pain DearEditor: The idea of being tortured is so horrible that most of us cannot even comtemplate it. Torture seems unthinkable, but in the 80s, 98 countries, more than one-third of the world's governments, are responsible for brutalizing prisoners. For many torture victims, their only "crime" was non-violent practicing of their religion and speaking their beliefs. These facts are substantiated in the recently released report, Torture in the Eighties. Amnesty International is beginning a two year Campaign for the Abolition of Torture. To stop torture, public opinion must be turned against countries that torture and countries that support torture. Although the United States is not mentioned in the report, our government is in the unique position of being able to put pressure on governments that do torture in order to stop these atrocities. In May, Congress will be meeting to discl!SS the issue of torture. With widespread public support, they will hopefully act to prevrnt torture throughout the world. OR April 26, Amnesty International will sponsor a fJ.lm and a speaker which will both deal with torture. Throughout the next two years, Amnesty International will sponsor other events and undertake a massive letter­writing campaign to help abolish torture. All torture cannot be stopped in two years. However, just as slavery was abolished, torture must be abolished. By working togeth­er, eventually we can bring about an end to torture. Robert V. Breunig Freshman Picher vindictive Dear Editor: There is no excuse for the way in which Keith Picher's March article contrasted Notre Dame Magazine with Scholastic. Rather than a professional critique, he wrote a piece clear­ly vindictive against the Scholastic, using per­sonal attacks that can only be called "cheap shots." First, if Kathy Curran laments a problem ailing this generation, viz., loss of reverence, be it for God, country, family or whatever, she should not be sarcastically ridiculed. Period. Paragraph. Second, a man can be well read and even intelligent in matters theological even if he is an anthropologist. If his views are too con­servative or even wrong, say so, but the notion  that one must be a tenured, liberal theologian in order to make legitimate commentary on a Lerner underestimates Gary Hart theological issue is plainly false. Would that more Catholics, conservative and liberal, which the old New Deal remedies cannotwere to do their Catholic "homework" as well Dear Editor: hope to provide adequate answers.as Professor Ostric. There is a certain monotony to the course Gary Hart wants to get on with theThird, anyone who thinks that "Pre-Vatican of American politics. Max Lerner objects to restructuring of American industry, ratherII trash" should in any way suggest the Gary Hart's campaign for the presidency be­than clutching (as does Walter Mondale) atpresence of the People of Praise knows neit­cause he wonders whether Hart's "skills in patchwork solutions, such as protectionism,her Vatican II nor the People of Praise. whatever is trendy, faddist and gimmicky are to the problems of unemployment and in·Fourth, if Jim Ganther's knowledge of enough to prepare him to be president." dustrial competition from overseas.Scholastic's history is faulty, so is Picher's. I One reads Mr. Lerner's complaints about Gary Hart is also far less fettered by an innerhave been here since 1976, and the contrast the Colorado senator with a sense ofdeja-vu, reluctance to speak out against foreign policybetween theScholastic then and more recent­because these are precisely the same charges misadventures than is Mondale. Hart has dis­ly, beginning with Chuck Wood's tenure, is which skeptical columnists levelled against played an admirable readiness to challengestark. The trash, not to say fJ.lth, that frequently Franklin D. Roosevelt and, decades later, the over-extension of American militarypermeated the magazine then was downright against John F. Kennedy, as they made their might, while Mondale has been notoriouslynauseating; ask those who would remember. respective bids for the presidency. unwilling to question such foreign policyFurthermore, it is no one's business to Both Roosevelt and Kennedy were initially fiascos as American involvement in Vietnam know the origin of the editor's article, or of dismissed by the pundits as political and the more recent but equally tragic com­anyone else's. Observer staff members would lightweights, more impelled by ambition and mitment ofAmerican Marines in Lebanon. certainly blush (and have) if we all knew the gifts of personal style than by character or But the bottom line is that only Gary Hartimperfections in behind-the-scenes produc­concern for the great issues oftheir times. can conceivably beat Ronald Reagan intion of our paper, imperfections endemic to Despite Mr. Lerner's reservations, Gary November; and why the Democratic bossesany publication, or any human endeavor. Hart has turned out to be the most thoughtful have aligned themselves with WalterEvidently, there has been a breech of trust and least conventional ofall ofthis year's can­Mondale, a candidate who consistently losesby a member ofScholastic's staff. At any rate, didates for the presidency. For instance, only to Reagan in the opinion polls, is a puzzlelet an article be criticized on its own merits. Hart has articulated the need for exploring which cries out for rational explanation.Now let me draw a contrast. Scholastic's new alternatives to the myriad problems Rev. Isaac McDaniel, O.S.B.presentation ofObserver's fiscal problems was afflicting the American economy, crises for Brownson Halljust the kind ofjournalism Paul McGinn ought to want to see: pertinent, fair, in-depth, and guileless, with an editorial opinion given that intended malice toward none. So it embar­rassed the Observer: it was an embarrassing issue. Why did you take revenge? Clearly, then, Picher's article was beneath the dignity of Christian journalism and of the work I have come to expect of him. Let's let ..... ideals reign here, if nowhere else: follow the .16principles set forth by Vatican II regarding the media (InterMirifica ), and rise above the pet­-ty vindictiveness that gives journalism a bad name. EdmondF. Peeks Cavanaugh Hall Let's hear it Have you read something in The Observer you didn't quite agree with? If so, why not write a letter to the editor. Letters to the editor must be well-written and typed. They must also bear the address, telephone numberand ---SOMEII signature ofthe author(initials andpseudo­nyms are not'acceptable). Please try to limit the size ofyour letter. Material shorter than 113 1HE Bt~T SATI~~ 250 words will receivepriority. All letters are subject to editing and become theproperty of The Observer.  

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller ................ Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor........ Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the admir.istration of either institution. The news is reported as  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor .............. Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  

... -..... • -.a\ t .. T 

Thursjay, April 5, 1984-page 8


Sports Briefs 
The Crew Teatll will be holding a meeting tonight at 
H:50 p.m. in the Lafortune Little Theater. Betting shirts will be dis­tributed and money collected for the Indianapolis trip -cash only. On Sunday, elections will he held at 8:.30, also in the Little Theater. 
-The Obsen,er 

Stepan Centeris closed for the remainder of the semes­ter for recreational purposes. The building is reserved for the Mock Convention, Collegiate Jazz Festival, advance registration, and An­Tostal through the end of April. -The Obsen1er 
The NVA Tennis Tournatnent is on Sunday, April H. Thncfore, the Courtney tennis courts will be unavailable for most oftht· day.-The Observer 
The NVA stretcherciseclass is having a guest night for new members today at the S: 1 S p.m. class. Classes are held in Gym 4 (above Gate 3) at the ACC. All faculty and staff are invited to attend. For more details, call 239-6690. -The Observer 
Cheerleading tryouts will be held beginning today from 6-10 p.m. The second clinic will be held tomorrow at 6 
p.m. Cheerleading finals then will be conducted on Saturday, April 7, from 6-10 p.m. All sessions will be held in the ACC Pit and tryouts will be open to the public Thursday and Saturday. -The Obseroer 
Keep training for the Irish Spring Run, a six-mile race around campus, the lakes, and the golf course. It's coming up Satur­day, April 14 at 10 a.m. Deadline for entries is this Friday. Registra­tion must be made in person at the NVA office, and a 13 fee will be charged. Trophies and t-shirts will be awarded. -The Obsen1er 
The squash C}Ub will host a tournament April 6-8 for players at all levels. It is open to all students, faculty and staff. Sign­ups will continue through today at the ACC courts. For more in­formation, call Sean at 277-140S. -The Observer 



Classifieds 
Women's Bookstore has 14 stots yet to mt for this year's tournament. Teams may signup on a first-come, first-served basis hy calling Patty at 1313 or Kathleen at 1618. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis teafll 
defeated Bowling Green yesterday, 8-1. The Irish, who now have a record of I 1-6, will take on Illinois-Chicago tomorrow at 3 p.m. at the Courtney Tennis Courts. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team 
will meet the University of Hawaii today at 3:30 p.m. at the ACC. ­
The Observer 

An Tostal mud volleyball captains' meetings 
will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Lafortune Little Theater. All captains are required to attend, since rules and schedules will be distributed. -The Observer 
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Los Angeles Lakers center, needs just 21 points tonight against the Utah Jazz to break Wilt Chamberlain's all-time NBA scoring record. The game, in which Kareem will attempt to surpass Chamberlain's 31,419 regular­season points, will be tele vised by USA cable network, beginning at 
10:30 p.m. -AP 

The Indianapolis Colts cannot seem to rid them· sel ves entirely oftheir fans in Baltimore. Robert and Mildred Sachse ofTowson, M.D., filed suit Tuesday against the Colts on behalfof all Colts fans, charging that the NFL team's sudden departure in the middle ofthe night last week has caused "se vere emotional distress." Mrs. Sachse says she does not really think she will win the suit, but she wants to express her feelings in some way. -AP 
NCAA vetos 45-second shot clock 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -The National Col­
legiate Athletic Association's Rules 
Committee, in a surprise vote. 
decided yesterday to put off for at 
least another season using a 4S­
second shot clock in college basket­
ball. 
The committee will next consider 
the shot clock issue at a meeting af­
ter next year's Final Four Tourna­
ment in Lexington, Ky. Ed Steitz, the 
committee's secretary-rules editor, 
predicted its adoption then. 
Steitz said the committee decided 
not to go with the shot clock be­
cause of uncertainty over whether 
to use it for the whole game. 
In order for the rules committee 
to adopt a uniform, nationwide shot 
clock, it would have required a two­
thirds vote of the 13-member com­
mittee. 
Steitz said the committee was 
leaning toward a shot clock to ta!l:e 
the stall out ofcollege basketball be­
cause the slowdown game was not 
exciting to watch on television, and 
TV generated a lot of revenue for 
Division I schools. 
The committee failed to respond to a survey of the nation's college basketball coaches disclosed by the National Association of Basketball Coaches last Thursday, in which S3 percent of the college coaches favored a shot clock. 
The committee did adopt the use of a coaching box, effective for the '84-'85 season. It also increased the number oftimeouts in games involv­ing the electronic media from three to four per game. 
The Obsen1er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, locatt·d on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­ters erda 
'\ NOTICES COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE • 2n-eo45. W/p1ck up & deliver  FOUND: A SPARE TIRE SITIING ON A SNOWBANK BEFORE BREAK I CAN'T FIGURE IT OUT. YOU TRY. HOW CAN SOMEBODY JUST LEAVE THEIR SPARE TIRE SITIING ON A SNOW· BANK WHEN THEY HAVE TO DRIVE  Immediate part-time 10b with nearby in· surance oftice. Receptionist· typist 40 wpm: peppy personality. Pay $4.50 -hours flexible -call Jim Lenox 272-0404. I NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO AREA ON  THE WALTZ BALL IS BACK!! Try out your social dance skills tram Freshman Year! Come waltz with Strauss and swing with Benny Goodman! Chautauqua, Friday night. 8:30.  Interested in Public Relations? SMC student government will be starting a NEW public relation commission next year. For more info. call Kacey 4437 GOING TO HARRISBURG PA. APRIL 7.  THANK YOU. ST. JUDE JUNIORS:GET INVOLVED WITH THE CLASS OF 851 APPLY FOR SENIOR AD· VISORY COUNCIL COMMISSIONS AND COMMITIEE CHAIRMAN POSt·  
HOME? It you think that the dummy might  4/6. CALL TOM t 004  H you have a personal computer and a  RETURN TO S.B. APRIL 13 RIDERS  TIONS IN STUDENT ACTIVITIES  
be you. call 7559.  modem, you should try our computer bul­ CALL 288-5971  . OFFICE BY 5:00P.M. FRIDAY.  
Need a rider to a St. Louis tor Easter  letin board service. Several hundred  
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009. EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009  lost...key chain· a plastic one wh1ch said chicago on it. there were a couple keys on it.. dave3040 LOST: LEVI'S BLUE DENIM JEAN  Break. Call Alan at 1402. I need a ride to St. Louta this weekend I I can leave any time after 1:00 on Friday. Call Maripat at 7877 or 239·7471.  users from all over Michiana and beyond to talk to and help solve your problems. For more information calf Kangaroo Kon· cepts. Inc. at 277-5306. Free demonstrations available.  CAPTAIN AMERICA: THANKS FOR MAKING ME RICH. HAPPY BIRTHDAY. XOXO SNUGGLES  DAN BUCKLEY EATS WORMS To the 2 Johns -I want you to know how much I entoy our tnendsh1p Thanks.­Love. You know who  
JACKET at Walsh's Hall Party last Friday  MEATPACKERS ARE REAL FAT  
TYPING AVAILABLE· 217~12  -Gumby & Poky & Police bunons on  NEED 2 R1des to DC for Easter CALL  IF YOU'RE NOT HAPPY WITH STU­ beaux arts ball FRIDAY. APRIL 6 beaux  
pocket. II found please call 283· 7965 or  284-429114162  DENT GOV. STOP COMPLAINING AND  arts ball SOUTH DINING HALL beaux  
GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUBIIIIIII  RETURN to 400 Lyons or Lost & Found.  GET INVOLVED! APPLICATIONS AND  You can't beat the MEAT-PACKERS.  arts ball9:00 PM-2;00 AM beaux arts ball  
Reward & no questions asked.  Need ride D.C.(Georgetown) for Easter.  JOB DESCRIPTIONS ARE AVAILABLE  JUST ANOTHER STER!OATYPICAL  
Can leave Thrs. after t. Return Monday.  IN THE STUDENT GOV. OFFICE..  COSTUME AFFFAIR beaux arts ball  
ALABAMA TIXIII Front row. but can't go  LOST: GOLD NO MEN'S RING. LOST  Call Patrick 3263.  DEADLINE IS TOMORROW.  EAT.EAT.EATMEATPACKERS.  TICKETS AVAILABLE IN DINING  
Call Mark 687t  BEFORE BREAK SOMEWHERE ON  HALLS. IN ARCHITECTURE OFFICE .  
CAMPUS. IT HAS A BLUE STONE WITH  NEEDED, one male roommate to share a  Good Luck RAVOTII. Break a Leg.  OR FROM YOUR FAVORITE ARKIE.  
NO ENGRAVED ON TOP. MY NAME  two-bedroom Turtle Creek apartment.  S.C.B.  PRESALE TICKETS ONLY. DONT WAIT  
Experienced typlat will do typing. Call  AND YEAR (85) ARE ENGRAVED  Call Ma" at 12t3.  FOURTH MALE ROOMMATE NEEDED  ANY LONGER  
217-5162.  INSIDE. THERE IS A LARGE REWARD  OR CAMPUS VIEW APT. IF IN­ DELICIOUS SANDWICHES  
OFFERED FOR ITS RETURN. IF YOU  TERESTED PLEASE CONTACT BRIAN  DELIVERED BY THE YELLOW SUB·  Hi! I'm a white male, 5'8", t50 lbs, black  
LOST/FOUND  KNOW WHERE IT MAY BE. PLEASE CALL JEFF O'NEILL AT 8854 FOUND: WOMAN'S HIGH SCHOOL  FOR SALE  AT t238. FLORIDA SLAM OK IT'S MY TURN ... NICE PICTURE IN  MARINE MON-THUR 8· 11 & FRI·SAT 8­1. CALL 272-4453 FOR SPEEDY SERVICE!!  hair, and blue eyes. looking tor a female compamon. age 13-55. I love to dance. play with stuffed animals. and sit naked in hot tubs. Sound interesting?! It so, please  

 RING. CLASS OF '62; NOTRE DAME  THE BATHROOM. PASS OUT MUCH  Katie: I hope your noggin is bener! -Kevin  call me. Mark McGovern. at 8856. P.S. No  
HIGH SCHOOL; INmALS J.D.  ELECTRIC GUITAR-MINT CONDITION  Farley g~rls, please.  
LOST:A red wool sweater 1n O'Shag  ORIGINALLY FOUND AT SMC ONE  -CALL AFTER 5 233-9093  Need a place to stay this summer? Want  
sometime before break. ff tound please  YEAR AGO. CALL NO ALUMNI ASSN.,  to sublet a 2 bedroom townhouse apart­ To the weirdo from Rhode Island who is  
call7t0t.  6000.  MAXELL's & TDK's $2.50. CALL MEAKS  MEMBERS OF AMER.-LEBANESE  ment. 1, 2 or 3 tenants. Within walking dis·  good at Ch1ng-Ching. do you need any  
277-3306  CLUB WATCH YOUR FRIENDS DANCE  lance ot campus. Semi-furnished.  help counting those pennies?  
LOST A BLUE DOWN JACKET DURING  LOST: Citizen watch w/gold case & black  THIS SUN IN THE ISO FESTIVAL. AT  $250/month without utilities (negotiable)  
LAST FRIDAY'S WALSH HALL PARTY  band on 4/4 1n SQuad ST area. Call7992  BPM  Call283-t479_  Now that spnng IS here. will Julie Schues·  
BRAND NAME IS ASCENTE. CON­ after 11.  sler and Jodi Sacre finally shave their  
TAINS PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN THE POCKET IF FOUND PLEASE  LOST: A BLACK TOTES SLIMLINE  TICKETS  SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -Roseland Police are looking for a white male who  E-TOMORROW IS HAPPY FRIDAYII-B  legs?!  
CALL 283-3tt5 or RETURN TO tt5 HO·  UMBRELLA WITH THE INITIALS RPM  allegedly made ott with a hamburger. tries  au..tlon: who wrote Global Reach, The  You knuckleheadiGet over here!We want  
L Y CROSS HALL. REWARD AND NO  ON THE HANDLE. I REALLY NEED IT. I  and a Coke without paying tor them. A  Giants, The Lean Years, Real Security.  to party w1th you! Don't forget to bnng  
QUESTIONS ASKED!  WOULD APRECIATE IT IF YOU WOULD  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL  ,  police spokesman said that the value of  and The Alliance?  Scrogger!P.S.You're a great friend-to  
CHECK YOUR UMBRELLA JUST IN  PAY$$$. CALL JOHN AT 1761.  the meal was "appoximately $2.57, with  have The Lewis Lovelys  
FOUND: GOLD CROSS PEN WITH  CASE YOU ACCIDENTLY PICKED UP  tax."  SVB. YOU ARE THE SUNSHINE OF MY  
WORDS: "ComVac" ON SIDE. CALL  MINE. IF YOU HAVE ANY INFORMA·  He described the ··dine-and-dasher" as  LIFE. LOVE. THE TOOT  To one of the greatest girls at SMC: Karyn  
t868TOCLAIM. KODAK POCKET CAMERA WITH THE  TION PLEASE CALL RICH AT X873t. THANK YOU.  PERSONALS  a male. 6'1", with red hair and a very big butt. The incident occurred before Spring Break. Witnesses also say the thief had a  THE ELLIOTI IS COM­INGICOONAN,SPANKY ET AL  Ruesch! Happy 19th B-day sweets! EnJOY your day and dinner tonight. Your a grt. friend. I will miss you so much next year.  
INITIALS TCJ AT HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY  hillbilly accent and when last seen was  DEAD MEN  Love Ya. Shannon  
IN 704 P.E. IF YOU ACCIDENTLY TOOK IT. PLEASE CALL TERRI AT 428tiF IT  WANTED  COSMOS FEVER ......... CURE ITIIIIIII  heading for the North Quad area of Notre Dame.  To the two disorganized brainless  Birth Control tOt-Professor Nips and TA  
WASN'T TAKEN BY MISTAKE. PLEASE  Persons with information are en­ w~ches:  Mr. Luck E. Hands explore new method  
JUST SEND THE FILM THAT WAS IN IT  couraged to report to the Roseland  Thanks tor Nothing  behind the big dog  
TO 704 P.E. THANKS FOUND: GIRL'S KEY CHAIN WITH LARGE GOLD HEART. FOUND IN  Come to Bolllon lor the aummer. Couplea .,. -king matu,. peraona to help whh chlldca,. and houMhold ,.aponalbllltlea In exchange lor room,  GET RIO OF THE WINTER BLAHS -buy a ticket lor NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS (now on sale at dining halls!)  Police. 283-8765. Ask tor Cpl. Kirk. SMC FRESHMAN  The Aspen Crew I need a ride to Ch1cago area leaving early  To you·know·who(bul I don't). My birthday would have been awesome if I knew who you were. Sandy  
STEPAN CENTER SUNDAY NIGHT. CALLx1785.  board and $125 net weakly Mlary. PleaM call Kate Goldfield at 617-862· 7982 or wrlta: 283 Marrett Roed, Lexi­ MACRI'S DEADI! THE DELl'S MEAT WILL BE BEAT!  Spring Dance April14 SY (Future) Y Tickets on sale in Saga Wed·Fri 4:30-6:00  friday afternoon. Call Marty at x347t asap.  STRIPES SATURDAY, APRIL 7  
LOST: A friend from Walsh Hey. banana,  ngton, MA 02173.  DETROITERS: COME CELEBRATE  CARROLL HALL  
please hnd your way back  GIRLSTIRED OF THE ND SOCIAL  THE OPENING OF THE TIGER'S DRIVE  7,9,11  
Need ride to COMISKY PARK lor Whha  LIFE? CALL OUR SERVICE AT 3727  Scavenger Hunt for ND/SMC Thursday  TOWARD THE PENNANT. HAPPY  
LOST. Green SWING WEST w1nter IBCk­ Sox Opening Game. H'a thla Friday,  Apri112 9:00-t2:00 Tickets on sale Wed­ HOUR THIS FRIDAY 4:30 -7:00 IN  
et. REWARDIII Please call 340t so my  AprilS, PleaM Call Paul at 2n-4851 or  THE SUNSHINE BOYS ARE COMING II  Fri. in Saga 4:30·6:00. Regina Lobby 9­ ALUMNI PARTY ROOM. FRIENDS  Hey Kathy Ouoter!Thanks tor the quotes  
mom won't kill mel  at 239-5313. Can leave anytimeI  1Opm Cash prizes.  WELCOME  and mommy~ng meiTHE WEREWOLF!  

Thursday, AprilS, 1984-page 9
The Observer 
continued from page 12 
middle, Detroit is very strong in the field with Lance Parrish at catcher, Alan Trammell and Lou Whitaker at short and second, respective­ly, and Chet Lemon in center. SteadyJack Mor­ris, along with Dan Petry, lead a pitching staff that is, to some degree, still looking for solid third and fourth men. Look for the team from the Motor City to fall just a little short for a second straight year. 
Milwaukee (87-75) -First-year skipper Rene Lachemann has to be happy with the team he encountered upon his arrival in the Brewer camp after the atrocities he found in Seattle with the unceasingly bad Mariners. Lachemann finds a team of hitters with the ability to really pound some people. But, by the same token, his pitching staff may get roughed up nearly as much. Cecil Cooper,Jim Gantner, Robin Yount, and Paul Molitor make up probably the best infield in the game anH the outfield isn't too bad with Rick Manning out in center field. Pete Ladd will carry a bul­lpen which may be getting the call quite a bit. Solid starters are noticebly absent, and the return ofRollie Fingers and Pete Vuckovich is an uncertainty. If Milwaukee can find one or two good starters, it could be a good year for the Brew Crew. 
Toronto (89-73) -Last year was Bobby Cox's first year as manager ofthe Blue Jays and it was a !Jighly successful one. He took theJays to a fou.rth-place finish and Toronto ought to do as well this season. Alfredo Griffin and Damaso Garcia make up one of the best double-play combinations in the league. Dave Stieb, Jim Clancy, and Luis Leal give the Jays three good starters, with the strong chance that either Doyle Alexander orJim Gott could come through as a dependable fourth man. If recently acquired Dennis Lamp can come through as the stopper, there's a chance that Toronto fans could still be watching baseball when hockey season opens. 
New York (91-71) -Who's on first? Who's on third? Omar Moreno and Toby Har­rah right now for the Yankees. But for how long? As long as George Steinbrenner con­tinues to be puppeteer ofmanagers, the Bronx Bombers will continue to bomb as much as they did in the exhibition season. The Yanks have good depth but never seem to find one everyday player for most positions. The pitch­ing ought to be good with Ron Guidry and the new short relief man, Dave Righetti, leading 
b 
,, 
continued from page 12 
tially outstanding pitching staff which in­cludes starters Steve Rogers (17-12), Bill Gullickson ( 1 7-12 ), and Charlie Lea ( 16-11 ), as well as newly acquired Fred Breining from San Francisco. Rogers and Breining already have sore shoulders, so the Expos could have a rough start. The bullpen ofJelfReardon, Dan Schatzeder, Bob james, and former-Padre Gary Lucas could be the league's best, but the big question is whether or not Pete Rose can be both a consistent leftfielder and a much­needed spark to a team lacking enthusiasm. 
Philadelphia (90-72) -The Phillies could have the best team in the division, but there are a lot of questions that won't be answered until the season unfolds. The most important of these is whether new starters Len Matuszek (first base) and Juan Samuel (second base) can make the fans forget the "Big Red" memory of Pete Rose and joe Mor­gan. The pitching is pretty solid with Cy Young Award winners Steve Carlton and john Denny topping the list of starters, and veterans AI Holland and Tug McGraw leading the bullpen corps. The logjam in the outfield was broken up with the trading of Gary Mat­thews to Chicago, and the Phillies strengthened their bullpen with the acquisi­tion of Bill Campbell. 
St. Louis (79-83) -The Cardinals didn't do a very good job of defending the NL pen­nant last season as they spent most ofthe year under the .,500 mark and wound up finishing fourth. Whitey Herzog apparently feels that everyone just had an off-y t car because the Cards opened the season with essentially the same pitching staff that finished 1983. To make matters worse, the staff will be missing John Stuper and Danny Cox, who are both sidelined indefinitely with arm injuries. Defense and speed will again be the Cards' major strength -Willie McGee, Ozzie Smith, Tommy Herr, Lonnie Smith, Andy Van Slyke, and David Green are all basestealing threats. George Hendrick will be back in rightfield, and Green will move in at first base, but other­
• • . Baltimore 
the way, especially with the way that John Montefusco and 18-year-old Jose Rijo have done in the spring. Dave Winfield could turn out to be the only bright spot in what might otherwise be a long season for Steinbrenner 
andCb. 

Cleveland (70-92) -A strong pitching staffcan really carry a team and that will have to be the case this year in Cleveland. Luckily for the Indians, they have the arms. Veteran Bert Blyleven, Rick Sutcliffe, and Neal Heaton are the core of an excellent staff that is going to have to pick up the slack for all else the Tribe lacks, which could fill up a couple reservations. Julio Franco, Tony Bernazard, and the dependable Andre Thornton will have to be the main men for Cleveland day-in and day-out. Now that the Indians have George Frazier as their stopper and have gotten rid of Gorman Thomas, things could finally pick for Cleveland fans. Don't count on it, though, considering that this is the American League East. 
Boston (78-84)-Wade Boggs may not be the greatest third baseman but the guy can sure hit. In simplistic terms, Boggs will have to get on andJim Rice will have drive him home with some consistency in order for Boston to do much of anything this year. Dwight Evans and Tony Armas round out an excellent out­field which will be doing a lot of scurrying about the wide open pasture ofFenway when other teams take Red Sox pitchers to town. Add to that the fact that the Boston infield could be compared to a seive and you see that manager Ralph Houk has some serious problems. Ifthe Bosox hitters could only get together on a team with the Indian pitchers ... 
Predicted order offinish 
1. 
Orioles 

2. 
Tigers 

3. 
Brewers 

4. 
Blue Jays 

5. 
Yankees 

6. 
Indians 

7. 
Red Sox 



• • . Pittsburgh 
wise this is the same Cardinal team that flopped in '83, not the World Series team of '82. 
Chicago (71-91) -Hoping to benefit from a managerial change, the Cubs enter 1984 with a chance for substantial improve­ment. Jim Frey, who last managed in Kansas City, has a potential power-hitting team with Leon Durham, Jody Davis, Bill Buckner, Ron Cey, Keith Moreland, and Gary Matthews. Startfng pitching will be the Cubs major con­cern, however, as Chuck Rainey, Dick Ruth­ven, Scott Sanderson, and Steve Trout form a less-than-dependable quartet. The Cubs were a dismal 13-35 on artificial turf last year, but Frey didn't seem to mind the carpet in Royals 
Stadium when he took K.C. to the Series in 1980. 
New York (68-94) -The Mets will be sporting a lot of young talent this season, as they enter the eleventh year of their major rebuilding project. New manager Davey .Johnson has a strong bullpen with Jesse Orosco, Doug Sisk, and Dick Tidrow, as well as a the offensive punch of Keith Hernandez, George Foster, and rookie-of-the-year Darryl Strawberry. He also has a plethora of good young pitchers like Ron Darling, Dwight Gooden, Tim Leary, and Walt Terrell. Unfor­tunately, he doesn't have Tom Seaver or anyone else that can provide leadership for an erratic pitching staff Nor does he have a con­Sistent offensive team, the kind that can win without a dominant pitching staff. 
Predicted order offinish 
1. 
Pirates 

2. 
Expos 

3. 
Phillies 


4. Cardinals 
5. 
Cubs 

6. 
Mets 



continued from page 12 
improve -the addition of bullpen ace Bill Caudill is definitely a step in the right direc­tion -the A's could turn out ·to be the surprise of the league. If not, they could be struggling to get to .500. 
Kansas City (79-83) -If it's true that facing adversity builds character, then the Royals should have the strongest chllracter in the majors. Injuries hurt the team's chances last year, and a drug problem has cast a shadow over the organization. With star pitcher Dennis Leonard out for at least halfthe season and Willie Wilson out until May 15 on suspension, nobody has given the Royals much ofa chance. But Kansas City knows how to win, and it's hard to ignore a team with players like George Brett, Hal McRae, Frank White, and Dan Quisenberry. Ifyoung players like Don Sheridan and veterans like Larry Gura come through, the Royals could make some big waves. They probably don't have enough to worry Chicago, but they could fmish second again. 
Texas (77-85) -Last year, Doug Rader performed miracles in his first year in charge of the Rangers. He somehow turned many of his players into overachievers who provided about the only challenge to the White Sox all year. The unsung Ranger pitchingstaffhad the lowest team ERA in the league, although the ace of the staff, Rick Honeycutt, the league's ERA leader, was traded near the end of the season. Dave Stewart, who came to Texas in the Honeycutt trade, must pick up die slack or it could be a long year for the team. The pitch­ing staff was weakened over the winter when two pretty good pitchers -Mike Smithson andJohn Butcher -were traded for more hit­ting. If some of the overachievers like Odell Jones and Wayne Tolleson fade, Texas could also fade right into the cellar. 
Minnesota (70-92) -Twins owner Calvin Griffith is looking for some large crowds this year or he might move the team out of Min­neapolis. That would be too bad for the Twins fans, because the team looks to be just a year or two away from challenging in the division. Minnesota is loaded with good young hitters like Kent Hrbek, Gary Gaetti, and Tom Brunansky. Tom Teufel shows great potential at second base, andJim Eisenreich could be an outstanding center fielder ifhe overcomes his nervous problem (the Twins are confident that he has recovered). Even the awful pitch-
continued from page 12 
Alejandro Pena and Bob Welch are coming off of good years, the Dodgers really don't know what to expect from Fernando Valenzuela, Jerry Reuss, and Burt Hooton. The Dodgers have a hideous defense and have no hope of winning this division unless their gloves im­prove. Steve Sax will be the key to success for the Dodgers this year. Sax must make the throw from second to first, and he must be the offensive catalyst in the L.A. lineup. The Dodgers don't hit the home-run ball the way they used to, but the system is still strong enough that Los Angeles will contend. If Pedro Guerrero ever gets hurt, it will be a quick sayonara for this team. 
Atlanta (88-74)-Yes, the Braves have the best eight-man starting lineup in baseball, but then again, so did the Boston Red Sox in 1978. Look where it got them. There is no question the Braves will contend. Atlanta suffers the loss of two starters in all-star Pascual Perez and veteran Phil Niekro, and now must rebuild the starting rotation. However, the Braves did not have outstanding starting pitching when they won in 1982, and the arms ofSteve Bedrosian and Gene Garber will keep Atlanta in business. Dale Murphy, the National League's MVP the past two years, is the leader of this club. The last two seasons have helped the Braves build some experience and a.grcat deal of comradery. Atlanta still has defensive questions on the left side of the field that may plague them, though. 
San Diego (81-81)-Rich Gossage, Steve Garvey, Graig Nettles -these folks are well­known to the baseball world and have a lot of people picking the Padres this season. But the question to the San Diego faithful is: Can you name a Padre outfielder? The only one I can think of is Alan Wiggins and he is playing second base. Even though you need a program to figure out who is playing out there for San Diego, the pitching staff may be the best ever for the Padres. Eric Show, Dave Dravecky, and Tim Lollar will be key pitchers, but there is great pitching depth in Luis DeLeon, Sid 
.. I 
• • . Chicago 
ing staff of a year ago is looking much better. 
Mike Smithson and John Butcher joined the 
team in a trade, and Ron Davis is one of the 
best bullpen stoppers in the league. Ifpitchers 
like Len Whitehouse and Pete Filson improve 
a little, Minnesotacould challenge for second. 
california (70-92) -The Angels, while 
they will be starting two rookies -Gary Pet­tis and Gary Schofield -are still a very old team. They are relying on veteran players on the mound and in the field. This is not neces­sarily bad, but many ofthe Gilifornia veterans are starting to show their age. Tommy John, Ken Forsch, and Geoff Zahn do not have the ·stamina to pitch through an entire season. Worst of all, there is no bullpen to back them up. The hitting is still there, with Rod Carew and Doug DeCinces, but ReggieJackson has to bounce back from his worst year ever. The An­gels have the experience to win the division, but all those creaking bones seem to indicate that they will finish closer to the bottom than 
to the top. 
Seattle (60-102) -Two years ago, the 
Mariners finished 76-86 and looked to be a 
team of the future. Last year's 60-102 record 
made that future seem very far away. It still is. 
However, Seattle picked up some good bats in 
Gorman Thomas and Barry Bonnell, so there 
should be some more runs scored in the 
Kingdome than there were last year. The 
pitching rotation of Matt Young, Bob Stud­
dard,Jim Beattie, and Mike Moore isn't great, 
but it is adequate. In short, the Mariners 
should be improved enough to challenge for 
fourth orfifth. With this poor division, though, 
they could finish even higher. It is possible 
that a team with a losing record could finish 
second -just like last year. 
Predicted order offinish 
1. White Sox 2.A's 3. Royals 4. Rangers 5. Twins 
6. 
Angels 

7. 
Mariners 


. Houston 
Monge, Ed Whitson, and Gossage. No, they don't have the bats, and they don't have stellar defense, but pitching and speed will keep this team in contention until the last two weeks of the season. 
Cincinnati (74-88) -Slowly but surely the Reds are trying to make a return to the game of baseball. Newly-acquired Dave Parker should help this young team's offensive output. Cincinnati is also getting a long hard look at young catcher Dann Billardello. As for the pitching staff, new skipper Vern Rapp must ask "Is there life after Mario Soto?'' Un­fortunately, the opposing bats in Riverfront this summer will answer a resounding "No!" 
San Francisco (79-83) -Remember all the rumors of Manager Frank Robinson losing his job? By the end of this season, we won't have to worry because 1\>binson will be long gone. The Giants have picked up a pair ofcon­summate pros in veterans AI Oliver and Mm· ny Trillo. The San Francisco outfield includes such notables as Jack Clark, Chili Davis. and Gene Richards. Unfortunately, the team lacks the chemistry ofa winner because ofpoor at­titude. Regular outbursts by malcontent Clark continue to hurt a team with enough problems. The pitching staff is not deep at all and the defense still includes johnnie LeMas­ter at shortstop. So much for defense. This team sounds like a perfect case for, you guessed it, Billy Martin. While the team has potential to finish above .500, poor attitude will wipe out the Giants quickly. 
Predicted order offinish 
1. 
Astros 

2. 
Dodgers 

3. 
Braves 

4. 
Padres 

5. 
Reds 

6. 
Giants 



-.. -• --• • "' • • .. ~ • • e • • " "' <I ,_ f1' • "" o• #' ""'.#' .• •.-•..-,--,/'" il' •' ,• o •• I t I • I I I I f 4 I I I o • IJ • • ~ • • ~ -• .• .-,• • .,• ... ~ e' I ( I a I .I 1/o .I ~ ~ • I> ,. II ~ • I' ,. fl ,.. .., . • ,.. "_, ,• ,• /",rr ,-, •" ~ 
Thursday, April 5, 1984 -page I 0 
The Observer 

IOC declares fciAss oF '&7----------------------l 
I Thanks for your support. Let's make next 1 
STUDY IN EUROPE
Increase tn 

I year great. Together we can do it! I 
The University of Louvaln (eat. 1425) leuven, Belgium
drug tests I Thanks, Jim, Annie, Mark, and Dave I 
offers 
L------------------------­
Associated Press COMPLETE PROGRAMM~S IN PHILOSOPHY ~·····••++••••••••••++••••++++++~ 
FOR THE DEGREES OF B.A., M.A., AND Ph.D. 
Samaranch added that headgear 

Applications for bartenders at the •
will be allowed this summer in 

$5 Haircut only
boxing e vents for the frrst time, but Alumni Senior Club are now 
i 

use would be optional. 

277-1691 
~kadgear was tried out at last available at Student Activities. : 

Haircut, Shampoo
summer's Pan American Games. 272-0312 
Blowdry offer only applies to male patrons 
Buy 

Hra: Tues, Wed: 8:30-5:30 54533 Terrace lane Thur, Frl: 8:J0.8:30 AcrOa& from Marftn's Sa1: 8:00-2:30 

I. i
OtJserver i Applications are due by Fri. April6 J 
St. Rd. 23 Clo~edMon.
Classifieds .................................. 
Se venteen athletes were eliminated from cycling, weightlift­

i. SE'" 
ing, and track and field competitions 

. -­
last August in the Pan American 



: ~..l'o . 
(~ames in Caracas when tests 

W4t 1Kni!lltta nftlttC!!ustlt
showed they had used prohibited 

I• L;\2?RlRR : 

~ 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -Tests for caffeine. and testosterone will be added to the existing drug tests per­formed on athletes competing in the summer Olympics, the International Olympic Committee president said yesterday. 
The tests will be administered to all competing athletes, not just the medal-winners, Juan Antonio Samaranch said. 
drugs. 
The IOC medical commission is going to be e ven stricter in Los An­geles Olympic games "because of the great danger doping represents for the athletes," Samaranch said. 

ISAN MBA INYOUR 
.,..,...TDr.,The Kogod College of Business Administra­
.. ~ A ~~ e tion at TheAmerican University offers you an excellent opportunity for graduate business education in our nation's capital. Qualified candidates may begin their studies in summer or fall sessions. Programs may be completed on a full-time or part-time basis with courses offered in both day and evening formats. 
In addition to the MBA. the College offers the Master of Science degree in Taxation as well as in other specialized professional fields. For further information, call (202) 686-2141 or mail the following form to: 
Kogod College of --------------------­
I am interested in the following graduate business Administration field~: Oft'lc:e ofStudent D Accounting D Personnel and Affairs D Business-Government Industrial Relations The American Relations D Procurement, Acquisi­Unlve...ity D Finance tion and Grants Washington, DC D International Business Management 20016 D Managerial Economics D Real Estate and Urban D Marketing Development D Operations Analysis D Taxation (MSonly) 
Business 


THE Name_ ----------­Address ____ -------------­
AMERICAN 

City___ --·. --------­UNIVERSITY State Zip ____ 
WASHINl.'.TllN I X 

Telephone(_ )__________ 
Thto AmerK'an Umwnity Ia an 

EEO.AUirmalivr ActMJOlnslltuunn --------------------­


and Sunshine Promotions 
~EI=E"; 

JON ANDeRSON CHAI!o SQUIRI! HtfVOA RABIN AlAN WHITE TONY KAYf 
Thursday, Apri126 8:00P.M. Notre Dame A.C.c. All Seats Reserved $12.50 
Tickets on sale at the A.C.C. Box Office. Sears (University Park Mall, Elkhart and Michigan City). Robertson's (South Bend, Town and Country and Concord Mall). Elkhart Truth. J.R.'s Music Shop (laPorte). St. Joseph Bank (Main Office). World Record (Goshen). Music Magic (Benton Harbor) and Karma Records (Ft. Wayne). 
• -plus A JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD PROGRAMME 
AHention all juniors interested 
All Courses Are In Engltsh 
in bartending during the 
Tuition Is 11,500 Belgium Franks ( "!$250) 
i1
1984-1985 school year: 
Write To: Secretary English Programmes Kardlnaal Merclerpleln 2 B-3000 leuven, Belgium 
j 
KULeuven 

Men's Hair Styling at its finest 
,~J-.... -\--~inutes from campus ·~ ~~ SPRING SPECIAL 

Live Entertainment Tues., April3 
featuring Sherri Woods 
in the lounge 
This Is not a misprint 
IO~TACOBAR 
San.-Thun. 9pm-close 
Late Night Happy Hour 
San.-Thun. 10pm-close
139 W. JlllciUaley Ave. 
$1.00 MARGARITAS
t-MIUa..U, lndlaaa 46545 
2 for 1 BARDRINKS 
(five •blat..fro• ca•paa) 

NEW SCHEDULE IN EFFECT 
Clip and save this ad for easy travel planning! Travel United Limo to t; from Chicago's O'Hare 
LEAVE LEAVE 

ARRIVE ARRIVE NOTRE MICHIANA 

.......,.,. MICHIANA NOTRE 
DAME REGIONAL 
REGIONAL DAME BUS AIRPORT 
ARRIVE LEAVE 
AIRPORT BUS SHELTER SOUTH BEND 
O'HARE O'HARE 
SOUTH BEND SHELTER 
4:25 a.m. 4:45 a.m. 
11:50 a.m. 12:05 p.m
6:0D a.m. 
8:35a.m. 
6:25 a.m. 6:45 a.m. 
2:00p.m. 2:15p.m. 825 a.m. 8:45a.m. 
8:00a.m. 
10:45 a.m. 
4:10p.m. 4:25p.m. 10:25 3.m. 10:45 a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 
12:55 p.m. 
6:20p.m 6:35p.m
12:0D p.m. 
3:05p.m.
12:25 p.m 12:45 p.m. 
8:30 p.m. 8:45p.m. 2:25. p.m 2:45p.m. 
2:00p.m. 
5:15p.m. 
4:00p.m. 
7:25p.m. 
10:40 p.m. 10:55 p.m 4:25 p.m. 4:45p.m. 
6:00p.m. 
9:35p.m. 
12:50 a.m. 1:05 a.m. 6:25 p.m 6:45p.m 
8:00p.m. 
11:45p.m. 
3:00a.m. 3:15a.m. 
SOUTH BEND ARRIVALS & DEPARTURES ON SOUTH BEND TIME. EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 30. 1983 CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS 
(219) 674-6993 
ORCALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT~;$}#· 
,----------------------------­
-1 
I


~t(JttellC3L~-----------------------------------------T-hu_r_sd_a_y_,A_p_r_il_5_,_19_8_4_-_p_ag_e
___ll 





Berke Breathed 
BIG 
MOC!TH. 0 
0 

&Dave
Mellish 
HAlT t N.D. SECURITVI 
~ 
,~ 

Campus 
•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, NO Women vs Hawai, Courtney Courts 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Plasmid Stability and Cloned Protein Productivity in E. coli," RobertS. Seigel, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Picosecond Photochemistry of Methyl Viologen," Dr. Thomas W. Ebbesen, Radiation Lab Conference Theatre 

•4:30 
p.m. -Graduate Fellowship Prayer Group Meeting, Bulla House 

•5:15 
p.m. -Exercise Class, Guest Night at "Stretchercise -The Light Exercise Class for Women," Gym 4, ACC, No charge 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -FUm, "For Your Eyes Only," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu­dent Union, $1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Photography," Prof. Richard Gray, Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m.-FUm, "Ikiru," Washington Hall 

•8 
p.m.-Teleconference, "Weapons in Space," CCE 

•8 
p.m. -SMC Faculty Recital, Melanie Rut­ledge, Little Theatre 


TV Tonight 



. '.·.·.·.·.•,·,·..~ /. ' ....././ / .• .• ••••• t''•• •• ....•••..• •• •• , .. ,".~ ,·,•.... ' • 
0 0 0 0 0 0
• • • • • • "' • • • I • • • o o o I • a • to f" o. It 
-----~~~~-~-~~------~------------_j 
S~orts 

Defensive line coach looking for depth 
By THERON ROBERTS season and earned four starting as­Sports Wrll£>r signments while Autry was injured. "Griffin looks very good," Lantz 
Tht.· outlook for the defensive lint.· says. "He is strong, has very good ini­for the 19H4 Notre Dame football tial 4uickness and good football in­S(luad appears to h(· one that is solid, stincts, which. combined, make him hut it is somewhat lacking in depth. a good nose tackle." 
Ddt:nsive line coach Rkk Lantz Juniors Greg Dingcns and Eric has three solid players returning Dorsey split time at contain tackle in from last season's lineup, hut he is 19H3 and again are battling for the strapped for replacenu·nts for other position. spots and is trying to find a couple of Dingcns appears to have the edge players to fill that void this spring. so far this spring. The 6-5, 254­
"Wt.· think we <:an come up with poundcr was a menace to opposing four players who can give us the quarterbacks in particular, as he 4uaiity people that we need up gained his fame by being a quick pass front." Lantz says. "But tht.· thing we rusher. Dingens made 27 tackles last have to work on is to get all of our year, including five tackles behind linemcm to hecome aggressive hall the line ofscrimmage. players." Dorsey, who started seven games, 
"We want to make our defensive had 19 tackles and three sacks linemen extremely aggrcs..'iive and during the 1983 campaign. At 6-5, to attack the line of scrimmage," 265-pounds, Dorsey is a more ex­Lantz says. "We arc vt·ry techni4ue­plosive player than Dingens. Dorsey consdous." had the unenviable task of lining up 
So far this spring, Lantz has heen against the likes of Pitt's Bill Fralic stres..'iing tht.· proper techni4ues his last season. players should usc to carry out their ''I'd like to get a better look at assignments. both of them," notes Lantz. "They 
"We want them to he reading the are dependable players, but both offensive linemen, reacting to them need some more experience in cer­and being in position to make things tain situations." happen," Lantz explains. The anchor of the defensive line 
Gone from the 1983 starting will be senior Mike Gann. Gann, a lineup is nose tackle jon Autry. Al­throwback from the era of Kevin though Autry was a consistent hole­Griffith and Bob Clasby, gained plugger in the defensive line last recognition for being the force of season, Lantz is not concerned with the "Gold Rush." filling that opening. Gann has the most experience of 
Sophomore (to-he) Mike Griffin is any member of the line, having 
the logical candidate to take over at played in 33 of34 games since enter­
nose tackle. The 6-4, 254-pound ing as a freshman. The 6-5, 256­
Griffin contributed 23 tackles last pounder had 52 tackles and stopped 
Thursday, April 5, 1984 -page 12 

APPhoto squad who will be returning in the fall. For more on these players and the entire Irish defensive line, see Theron Roberts' story at left. 
two members of defensive line coach Rick Lantz's 
nine plays for a loss of yardage last year, while accumulating the most minutes played of any of the retur­nees. 
"Gann is a polished football player with outstanding athletic ability," Lantz says. "He possesses a lot of knowledge, which allows him to ad­just to different situations, and he is also very confident ofhis ability." 
One thing that may be lacking for Lantz is depth. 
Sophomore Wally Kleine, who has looked good so far this spring, has the tools that are needed to make a good replacement. The 6-8, 278­pound giant is big enough that he can make a few mistakes at frrst, but his coach is looking forward to im­provement. 
"Our whole line needs to get the experience so they can play with confidence and be aggressive," Lantz states. "They can't just go through the motions." 
"We believe there's enough talent on the defensive line that, if every­thing goes right, we will he a dominating force," Lantz predicts. 
Lantz's goal for the spring is to es­tablish a depth chart with the posi­tions filled two-deep. 
"We think that we're making the kind of progress we need," Lantz comments on his impression of the linemen at this point. "It's easy with defensive linemen because we do the same things over and over, so our techni4ues will improve pretty fast." 
Lantz looks to fifth-year seniorJer­ry Weinle and sophomore Byron Spruell, who is hampered with a knee injury, to compete for the remaining backup spots. 
With the defensive scheme focus­ing on situational substituting, Lantz would like to find out who are his best players for each situation. 
The defensive line does seem to be shaping up fairly well, and there still is much time for Lantz's squad to improve before next fall. 

The predictions for the 1984 baseball season 
Jeff Blumb 
Assistant Sports Editor 
A.L. East 
In recent years, the team with the second­or third-best record in the major leagues did not even win its division. Why? Simple. It was in the American League East. 
The chances for the same thing happening this season are good, as Baltimore, Detroit, and Milwaukee all should make runs at tOO­win seasons and the Ea'it crown. And, al­though the favorite will again be the Orioles, don't be surprised to see the Tigers or Brewers sneak in. 
Baltimore (98-64)-Oriole pitching is al­ways among the tops in all ofbaseball and this year should lx no exception, as the Birds con­tinue to pull gems out of their farm system. Last year it wa'i Mike Boddickcr, who came out of nowhere to become MVP of the American League Championship Series. Bod­dickt·r joins the starting staffof Mike Flanagan, Scott McGregor, Jim Palmer, and Storm Davis as the occasional fifth man, all of whom hold lifetimt.· winning percentages over .600. Amerkan League MVP Cal Ripkcn and runner­up Eddie Murray arc two constants for Bat­timon-, both of whom always do more than their share in the fidd and at the plate. It be hard for the two to matl'h their 
sea'i<>ns year ago, but anything dose to that should more than enough to catapult tht.· O's into top spot. As for the World Championship, take tht.· Orioles and any odds your local bookie might give you. 
Detroit (92-70)-Sparky Anderson is call­ing this his best team yet, even counting the powerful Red teams he managed in the early 70's. Anderson, though, has been known to make similiar statements in the pao;t so his es­timate ofteam strength should be taken with a grain ofsalt. Not to say the Tigers won't be an awfully good ball club. They will. Up the 
see BALTIMORE, page 9 

Mike Sullivan 
Sports Editor 
A.L. West 

The 1984 season should not be much dif­ferent from the 1983 season for the American League West. Once again, the division should win the title as the major's weakest division with little argument. Also, the most interest­ing race in the division should be for second place. 
The Chicago White Sox should have little problem repeating as division champs, even if they do not match last year's 99-63 record. What should be interesting is the race for the last six spots in the division, as all six teams have a shot at second place, depending on who gets hot and who does not. 
Chicago (99-63) -The White Sox are, once again, head and shoulders above the rest of the division. They have nearly everyone coming back, so there is really no rea'>on to doubt that they will repeat. The pitching wao; the best in the division last year and should be one of the top stafi5 again this year. The speed is there, as is the power. The only meaningful change wao; adding Tom Seaver to the pitching staffto replace free agent reliever Dennis Lamp. Losing Lamp could hurt more than people expect, especially near the end of the year when the starters' arms get tired. Still, the White 'Sox could hurt themselves if they start believing they are as good as the Chicago papers and fans say they are. They should not even think ofa World Series until they win the AL pennant -which still could be a year or two away from happening. 
Oakland (74-88) -The young A's probab­ly have the best chance of making a run at the White Sox. Last year, their pitching staff was comprised of a number of rookies who im­proved as the year went by. One rookie, Mike Warren, even pitched a no-hitter in his last outing of the season. If the staff continues to 
see CHICAGO, page 9 


Larry Burke 
Sports Writer 
N.L. East 
The National League East may not have been baseball's most talented division during the past few seasons, but it has provided plenty of excitement during that time. The 1984 season should prove no exception to either of these trends. As usual, any one of several teams could wind up leading the pack, and if you stretch your imagination a little (well, for New Yorkers, maybe a lot), each team has a legitimate chance to be in conten­tion most of the way in a race that should go right down to the wire again. 
Pittsburgh (84-78) -Ifpitching, like they say, is really 90 percent of the game, then the Pirates should be the team to beat this year. Larry McWilliams, John Candelaria, Rick Rhoden, and the newly-acquired John Tudor all won at least 13 games last season as start­ers, and rookiesJose DeLeon and Lee Tunnell were impressive in August and September. The bullpen will be strong because the team persuaded top-notch fireman Kent Tekulve that there's no place like home. The Bucs have some, but not a lot, ofoffense to go with their pitching. Four-time NL batting champ Bill Madlock, along with jason Thompson, Tony Pena, and Dale Berra wil he counted on to supply most ofthe frrepower. Rookie rightfiel­der Doug Frobel had an outstanding spring and could become a regular soon. Chuck Tan­ncr is hoping that he'll hit more and gripe less than did Dave Parker. 
Montreal (82-80) -The Expos are 4uick­ly getting the reputation of a team that looks great on paper every year, plays well into the stretch, but then folds at the season's end. When things like that happen several years in a row, it starts to have an effect on a team's confidence. This season, the loss of AI Oliver will hurt, but manager Bill Virdon has a poten­
see PITTSBURGH, page 9 

Will Hare 
Sports Writer 
N.L. West 

Over the past two years, the National League West has been dominated by two clubs -the Atlanta Braves and the Los An­geles Dodgers. However, while the Braves may be "America's Team," and the Dodgers arc defending champs of this division, neither team has taken steps to improve. 
Atlanta and Los Angeles both are trying to fill voids in their pitching staffs because of drug problems, and, in a sport where good pitching leads to wins, these teams will lose their edge. 
Four ballclubs will contend for the National League West title. All four have 4uestion marks, but the team with the best pitching and defense will take it. That team is the Houston Astros. 
Houston (85-77) -Strong starters and strong relievers make the Astros a strong choice for first. Nolan Ryan and Joe Niekro anchor a staff which has good young pitchers (watch for rookie Mike Madden to have a big year) and a proven bullpen in young.'itcrs Bill Dawley (51 hits allowed in 79 innings pitched in '8.3) and Frank DiPino (52 hits in 71 in­nings). One of baseball's great young shortstops, Dickie Thon, anchors a splendid infield, which includes solid hitting from Ray Knight and Phil Garner. Thon, who hit .286, with 20 home runs and 79 runs batted in la'it season, could be an MVP candidate this year. OutfielderJerry Mumphrey is back on the Na­tional League artificial turf, where his speed and hitting will be of great value to Houston. The Astros won't lead the league in homers, hut nobody hits homers in the Astrodome, anyway. The acquisition of Enos Cabell and Alan Bannister will add depth should injuries occur. 
Los Angeles (91-71) -While starters 
see HOUSTON, page 9 





