Ruby slippers -page 6 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1984 

Lyons wins year's first Sowder Award; HPC will hold trivia contest 

~ Obsenlcr/Cbaltanya Pancbal 
Another Ivy Award Winner 
dressing, vegetable soup, rolls but no butter, and 
North Dining Hall commemorated World coffee, tea, and water to drink. jesse Pesta, joe Hunger Day Monday night by serving a meal that Whalen, and Paul Paboresky here enjoy the meal would be typical in an underprivileged country. which was repP.ated last night in South Dining The meal consisted ofrice,salad with one choice of Hall. 

'BySCOTT BEARBY 
News Staff 
Lyons Hall received this year's 
first Sowder Award for outstanding 
hall spirit at last night's Hall Presi­
dents' Council meeting. 
Originality, variety and high levels 
of participation in hall activities are 
the criteria for the monthly award. 
Lyons held many events, including a 
section leaders' workshop, bring-a­
friend picnic, and barn dance. 
Breen-Phillips received honorable 
mention this month. 
Community Service Commis­

sioner for theJunior Advisory Coun­
cil, Chuck Knapp, briefed the 
Council on an upcoming Trivial Pur­

suit contest for charity. Knapp ex­
plained that the marathon will begin 
at midnight Nov. 15 and continue 
until Nov. 17. The event will cover a 
total of 60 hours, and all proceeds 
will go to local South Bend charities. 
In a separate update on campus 

charity events, Tom Lezynski, co­
chairman for the United Way fund 
drive, urged hall presidents to make 
one last effort to increase hall contri­
butions. The drive has been ex­
tended until the end of this week. If 
the campus-wide goal is not reached 
by Friday, other campus events may 
be held to supplement the contribu­
tions. 

A representative for the Election · Task Force spoke briefly on the 
group's latest activities. These in­
clude providing absentee ballot in­
formation and scheduling debate~ 
between campus representative!i of 
the Reagan/Bush and 
Mondale/Ferraro campaigns. 

1be Student Activities Board will 
send a representative to all future 
hall presidents' meetings. Kelly 
Smith, this week's representative, 
announced that the SAB hopes to 
publish a truly comprehensive · 
monthly calendar to be posted in the 
campus halls. This calendar would 
include all events, including those 
sponsored by halls. · 

One of the hall presidents un­
veiled plans for a pre-pep rally to 
take place Thursday. The agenda 
now indues the forming ofa human 
chain or serpentine on South Quad 
with a bonfire at White Field follow­
ing at 8:30p.m. 

Before adjourning, Chris Tayback, 
Council president, brought up the 
possibility of a charity event to be 
sponsored by the HPC. 


Student-run Juniper Press promotes 'learning by doing' 
By·BARBARA STEVENS 
News Staff 
lf the adage "learn by doing" is true, then students in Elizabeth Christman's publishing class could soon be experts in the book publishc ing field. Class members select, publish, and market a manuscript. 
Christman first offered the class in 
the spring of 1977, to "introduce 
students in a practical way to what 
goes on in publishing." Since then, 
she ha'i taught the course every fall. 
Students invest their own money and take out a loan to form their publishing company, which the first class named Juniper Press. They elect officers, giving everyone in the class a job. 
Next the class must find a manu­
script that will appeal to Notre 
Dame and South Bend (the potential 
readership for the book), which 
doesn't need much revision, and is 
not longer than l00 pages. 
Once they have chosen their man­uscript, they contract for it, edit, design and produce it. The students also advertise, promote, and dis­tribute the book, account for sales and pay royalties. 
The author's contract covers book rights only and expires after a year. Juniper Press copyrights the authors' names and gives them 10 free copies ofthe finished product. 
This year, Christman's class is publishing a collection of personal ads from The Observer entitled Horse Died: need ride to Boston. 
Two students in the class, Margaret Fosmoe and Julianne Jones compiled the book. Fosmoe also serves as fulfillment manager for the press, whileJones is the copy editor. 
Theresa Kloska, a Saint Mary's senior, is president ofJuniper Press this year. Her job includes oversee­ing and directing the entire process 
of the company. "Each class begins 
as a meeting," said Kloska. "I invite 
each person to stand up and give a 
report on what he or she is doing." 
Kloska says she finds this class to be one of the most rewarding and stimulating she's taken. "We've learned more in this class than we ever could have in a traditional class­room setting," she said. "It's given us an inside look at publishing in a unique way." 
Students claim Christman is the fuel that powers the class. "She's one ofthe few teachers that allowed stu­dents enough freedom and trusted us enough to let us work on our own," Kloska said. "She's more con­cerned that we learn something than with giving us grades." 
Jim Winters, editor-in-chief of Christman's first publishing class, agreed with Kloska's assessment of Christman. "Professor Christman engendered loyalty in the staff and commanded respect," he said. "She was a leader without being heavy­handed about it." 
Christman is well-seasoned in the field of publishing. She worked for more than 20 years as a literary agent at Harold Ober Associates, which handled authors like Agatha Christie, and ). D. Salinger. "She's real sharp," Kloska said. "She's on top ofthings." 
Christman says she enjoyed working as a literary agent, although she never "discovered someone" as she was always hoping to do. "Once in a while I found a flash in the pan," Christman said, "someone who wrote one or two outstanding things then never wrote anything else." 
The idea of teaching a publishing course by having the class actually publish a book first occurred to Christman while she was teaching at DePaul. She taught the course twice during the one-month winter term, but a month wasn't adequate time for the course. "It's terribly hard to even teach it in a semester," said Christman. The DePaul English de­partment didn't seem to think the publishing course fit in with an En­glish curriculum, Christman said. 

When she came to Notre Dame, Christman mentioned the idea to Ronald Weber. then the head of the American Studies Department. He was encouraging, she said. 
Christman first offered the publishing course in the spring of 1977. "The course was very popular because it was such a novelty," she said. "It was just open to seniors, but we still had so many people sign up that we had to have a lottery." 
Christman did let two juniors, Marianne Murphy and Susan Grace, into the class because they were so eager to take it. "As soon as I heard about the course, I knew it would be something I'd be interested in," Murphy said. "Books are an ongoing love for me, and I'll always be in­volved with them." 
The first class published Ralph Mclnery's novella Quick as a Dodo, a stapled book that cost $2. Pam But­terworth, a Saint Mary's student, il­lustrated the book. "She created a lovely, whimsical bird." Zarzana said. Later, Vanguard Publishing company put out a hard-cover edi­tion of Quick as a Dodo, and they used Butterworth's illustrations. 
The class soldQuick as a Dodo in the Notre Dame Bookstore and several other bookstores in South Bend. They held autograph parties and put displays in bookstores to ad­vertise the book. One student donned a bird costume and wore it around campus to publicize the book. Quick as a Dodo returned the students' investments of 125 each and m.1de them a profit of 1200, 
see JUNIPER, page 3 

Saint Mary's professor says his hobby, ParaPianing, is an easy way to learn to fly 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 
News Staff 
Have you ever dreamed of floating above all the pressures of school? Professor James Paradis' hobby lets him leave his ceramics behind and head off into the clouds. 
Paradis, chairman of Saint Mary's art department, enjoys the fast-evolving sport of ParaPlan­ing. 
A ParaPlane is a parafoil-type parachute propelled by two 1 5 horse engines that rotate oppo­site ofeach other. It takes off and lands like any other aeronautic vehicle, using a tricycle landing gear. There are no wings, just parachutes. 
Paradis flies a newer version of a ParaPlane originally developed by Notre Dame's aerospace engi­neering program some years ago. 


airstrip on Tyler Road in Walker­
ton, Ind. Eric Johnson will at­
tempt a world record high 
altitude ParaPiane flight between 
6 and 7:30 a.m., weather permit­
ting. 
The U93-FM hot air balloon 
piloted by Rocky Papndria will 
also be on hand for the show. 
Those interested can schedule 
one-hour passenger flights in the 
balloon by calling 586-35 30. 
Association members will ex­
hibit vehicles on the ground and 
in flight throughout the day. 
Paradis encourages all interested 
students to partake in this event. 
Paradis said his ParaPlaning is not affiliated with the College, but in'itead is a new hobby ofhis. He added, "My main interest is helping to promote safety in flying ParaPlanes and to make others aware of the kind offlying 

.that is available in this area." 

\ ~ 
~ Ob!ctvcr/Marslc Kcnlca 
Professorjames Paradis 
With minimal training, Paradis said interested students could learn how to fly. 
This Sunday, Oct. 21, the Great Lakes Association of ParaPlanes will sponsor an ali-day ParaPlane Show at the Sky Sports, Unlimited 
----·---­

-

The Observer Wednesday, October 17, 1984-page 2 

Steroids made them so aggressive they bombed a car, claimed two roommates from Middle Tennessee State Univer­sity. The pair, accused ofbombing the automobile ofa man who had fired one ofthem, was sentenced to five years probation and ordered to make restitution and perform l ,000 hours ofcommunity service. The two students said they took steroids to improve their weightlift­ing. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
The Budweiser Comedy Shop Tour is 
making a stop at Saint Mary's tonight at 8 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The Budweiser Comedy Shop features such young comedians as Jeff Altman, Elayne Boosler and Richard Lewis. The opening act for the show is the winner of Amateur Night at Senior Bar, senior Bernie Pelligrino. Tickets are on sale at O'Laughlin Box Office, the LaFortune Record Store and Century Center. All tickets are S4, and all are general admission. -The Observer 
United Waycollections continue this week. Students may donate to the drive by seeing their hall president, section leader or the United Way representative ofthe hall. Off-campus students inter­ested in giving to the United Way may do so this tomorrow and Friday, from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in Lafortune by the OBUD bar. Students may also contribute anytime at the Student Activities Of­fice. -The Observer 
National Public Radio commentator 
and Contributing Editor ofThe New Republic magazine Robert Kut­tner will deliver the seventh Molony Memorial Lecture in the Hayes­Healy Auditorium tonight at 8. The talk, sponsored by the Department ofEconomics, is open to the public. Kuttner's talk, 'The Decline ofthe Middle Class,' is discussed in full in his new book, 'The Economic Illusion,' published last month by Houghton Mifflin. It deals with the relationship of economic growth to economic equality, and argues that a dynamic economy and a just society go together. -The Observer 
Absentee ballotinformationis available trorn 
the Student Lobby Commission of Student Government. Lobby Commissioners will be available with state by state information in the main lobby ofLaFortune today and tomorrow from 1 to 3 p.m. ­
The Observer 

Today's Open Forum topic is life issues. The forum meets every Wednesday during October at the Fieldhouse Mall to allow members of the Notre Dame community to express their opinions ofpertinent social issues. No preparation is necessary. 
-The Observer 

The Ireland program at Saint Mary's is meeting today at 6:30 in Room 232 Moreau Hall. All students interested in the program should attend. -The Observer 
ASenior Cocktail PartywiU be held tomorrow night from 9 to 1 in the Monogram Room of the ACC. Free drinks will be served. The cost is S3 at the door and the dress is semi-formal.-The Observer 

Weather 
The sun is scheduled to make a reappearance in the South Bend skies today. 
r-It will be warm, with a high around 70, today, and fair and cooler tonight with a low of 45 to 50. Enjoy the sun while it's here, because the clouds will return tomorrow and with them a 40 percent chance of rain. Tomorrow's high will be near 70. 
Today's issue was produced by:

The-Obset:Ver 
Design Editor ................. Guillermo Suarez Typesetters ..................................... Vic Sciulli Tracy Bringardner The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is News Editor ............................. Amy Stephan published Monday through Friday and Copy Editor .................................... Uz Miller on home football Saturdays, except Sports Copy Editor ..................... )eff Blumb during exam and vacation periods The Viewpoint Copy Edttor......... Paul Cimino Observer is published by the students of Viewpoint Layout ................. carol Brown the UniYersity of Notre Dame and Saint Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Mary's College. Subscriptions may be Features Layout......................... Bob Henke purchaMd for S30 ~r year ( S20 ~r se­ND Day Editor ............. ............... Earl Baker mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. SMC Day Editor .................... Carolyn Kelly Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. .Ad Design .................... AnnaMarie Furleigh The Observer is a member of The John O'Connor AModatcd Press. All reproduction Pbotograpber ............................. Phll Deeter rights are rtSCrved. Mar~De Ken;ten 


Take your gripes to the ballot box 
Everybody has an opinion about the president and his administration. Whether they think he is the best thing to come along since Abraham Uncoln or the per­sonification of the antiChrist himself, almost no one is indifferent. And for four years, people loudly assert their opinion. in political clubs, letters to the editor, or conversations over dinner. 
Well, folks, here's your chf:lllce. If you really want to drive your point home to Reagan or Mondale, Nov. 6 is the time. They may not hear your dinner conversations, but they certainly cannot ignore your ballot. 
It's only right to complain about the government, be­cause it is our firm belief that people have a right to criticize and participate in the way their country is run. It is a great privilege, but with every privilege comes a responsibility. And anyone eligible who does not meet that responsibility has no right to gripe come january when the wrong man steps into the White House. 
We prize our freedoms, and we sympathize with those unfortunate countries that are without them. But what good are those 
want to take the time and bother. "I don't know enough about the issues," says one, while another doesn't feel right voting because he is not familiar with his town and state representatives. But it is worth the time to find out. Write home for newspaper clippings on the campaigns. Or register to vote in Indiana. Read the papers or watch the news to get familiar with the issues. Most people find they do have a strong opinion once they understand the basic facts ofan issue. 
Some try to justify their lack ofaction by saying, "In a 
Mary Healy 
Features Editor 
Inside Vvednesday 

to abortion but don't want to combine religion and politics. Sometimes it seems the only differences are that one is better-looking or the other has better oratory talent. 
But not so in this election. 
The four presidential and vice-presidential candi­dates this year have as broadly divergent views as al­most any ofthis century. It is not a matter ofvoting for a man or woman, or even for an issue, but for fundamen­tally different ideologies. In fact, many political theorists are predicting that, depending on the outcome, this could be the most im­
Its significance must not be 
underestimated. 
In two days, most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents will go horne for a week. It is the easiest opportu­nity to get an absentee ballot, or if you are not yet registered, simply to stop by the town hall and sign a form. 
Speak now or for four years hold your peace. 
pool of several tens of millions of votes, I really don't think one more or less will make any difference." But of course, when millions ofpeople think that way and end up not voting, it can make a decisive difference. 
Another common excuse for not voting is that "The candidates sound exactly the same -they both take the middle view on everything." They both want to decrease taxes and cut the federal deficit, curb the arms race, help cities and decrease poverty, and improve foreign relations. They are both "personally opposed" 
The views expressed in the Inside column are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial board or staff. 


YOU CAN'T 
and no leg1trmate speed read1ng course can promrse that you'll flntsh novels faster than aspeedmg bullet1But you can rncrease your read1ng speed up to f1ve limes wrthout sacnflcrng comprehensJon 
Our Breakthrough Rapid Reading pro­gram can help you read textbooks. marl. JOurnals. novels-anyth1ng faster & more effrcrently If that sounds good to you. call us


c=-H 
•

A ~DOCAOONALN 
CENTER 
TEST PAIE""""TlOH SPECIALISTSSINCE 19311 


liEIIIII. 
~OUTH BEND AREA Stanley H. Kaplan Ed. Ctr. 1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
(219) 272·4135 
INITH INUNCNIU .. HrfOYt.l'tAf'OliiANOkOQIIIltMQT()trl 
In New 'bt< SUie Slanioy >i "-""" E~ Cente< Lid 

Exceptions
to the Rule 
Graduates in Business & Related Fields 
Equitec Properties Company is one of the nation's fastest growing real estate syndicators. We didn't achieve this success by hiring candidates with aver­age abilities and limited potential. Instead, we look for people who are exceptions to the rule-and in this case, exceptional business graduates interested in stepping into our winners circle of high achievers. 
We're looking for graduates in business, accounting, finance and econom1cs who are high-spirited, ambitious, team-oriented and success-minded. If you're looking for a career with professional satisfaction and rapid advance­ment potential, Equitec has opportunities for you in Property Management and Real Estate Analysis. 
EQUITEC CAREER OPEN HOUSE Morris Inn Alumni Room 
Thursda~Ckrto~18,1984 
7:Q0-9:00PM Refreshments will be served. 
Learn more abwt the future we can offer you. Those individuals who have already signed up for an interview will have the advantage of meeting us early at the Open House. If you have yet to'sign up, come to the Open House and schedule an interview time. 
If you're unable to attend, send your resume and introductory letter, to: Equitec Properties Company, 1018-ND, 200 West Monroe, Suite 1504, Chicago, IL 60606. 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 
ltEquitec 
Step Into the Wimzers Circle. 
freedoms to us, if we fail to 
portant election since F.D.R. take advantage of them? and his "New Deal" carne to Where other countries get power in 1932. This year voter turnouts of over 75 could be a significant Re­percent, we are lucky ifeven publican turnaround. 50 percent of the eligible But whether you intend population show up at the to vote Republican, Demo­booths for non-presidential crat, independent, or even elections. Even at the last for Hall and Davis, the Com­presidential election, only munists on the ballot, it is 54 percent of those eligible important that you let the voted, the lowest number in candidates and the rest of 32 years. Hopefully the the nation know where you trend will be reversed in stand, because it may have 1984. an important influence on 
A lot ofstudents just don't policy in the years to come. 
-------------------------~-­
The Observer Wednesday, October 1 7, 1984 -page 3 

Notre Dame professor is member of Challenger shuttle ground crew 

electrical property of a scene," said Wasowski, an assistant professor of earth science. 
The Challenger passed over this area Oct. 6 and Oct. I 0. But because of technical problems, Oct. 6's radar images did not turn out, and there is a possibility that Oct. I O's were not suc(.:essful either. "We're still waiting to find out," said Wasowski. 
Data from the Challenger will serve many purposes, said W asowski. "We hope to be able to draw a numerical content of the brightness of a soil as shown on the radar in relationship to the moisture content of the soil. This will be valuable for studying agricultural areas in terms of what types ofcrops are growing and what treatment they will need. This will ultimately help the farmers in the area." 
Data from this experiment could also lead to the discovery of petro­leum reserves, buried streams in dey areas, and fault lines that geologists have not yet charted. 
Wasowski plans to work with the space shuttle program in the future. He said, "There is a good possibility NASA will fly this experiment again and I definitely expect to expand on it." 
Wasowski gained much of his ex­perience for this mission while pursuing his Ph.D at U.C.L.A. and working at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif. 
By MAUREEN WElTER 
News Staff 
When the space shuttle Chal­lenger flew over the South Bend area last week, Notre Dame Professor Fa­ther Ronald Wasowski was part of the crew. 
Wasowski didn't orbit the earth with the astronauts, but as part ofthe mission's ground crew participated in an experiment using NASA's orbi­tal imaging radar system. He describes radar imaging as "a pic­toral recording using radar wavelengths," as opposed to pho­tography which uses visible light to record images. 
With the help of undergraduate researcher Kevin Corbley, Wasowski aided the mission by mea­suring the soil of 4 5 local fields and videotaping the surrounding landscape. 
"The radar was able to pick up the physical geometry as well as the 
No one shows up at the first Ombudsn1an campus forum 
By MARTIN RODGERS 
News Staff 
Ombudsman sponsored the first of several "Campus Life Forums" last night, but no one showed up to voice his or her opinion except the guest speaker William Hickey, director of Uni­versity Food Services, and Om­budsman President Henry Sienkiewicz. 
The purpose ofthe forums is to give students "a chance to talk to the people who infiuence their lives," Sienkiewicz said. 
Summer Job Applications Available 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association. in cooperation with the Career and Placement Services Office. will again sponsor the Summer Job PlacementProgram 
in 1985 

IF YOUARE INTERESTED INAPPLYINGFOR SUMMER JOBS INAN Alumni Club city. obtain an applicationfrom the Alumni Office. 201 Admin. Bldg. 
APPLICATIONS MUST BE COMPLETED AND RETURNED BY NOVEMBER 30. 
This maybe the most rewarding weekotyourlite. We'll send you an information packe~ rt you forward this completed coupon to: ReverendJerryDom, Glenmary Home Missioners, Box46404, Cincinnati, Ohio45246. 
Name ___________________________________________________ Age_________ 
Address-------------------------------------------------------------­City ---------------------------------State_________ Zip-----------­Telephone ) 54-10!84 
The lack of an audience was a "surprise" to Sienkeiwicz, who described it as "disappointing and dismal...For the students to complain about the cooking and food they eat and not to come out and seek to change what they feel is wrong is beyond me. I feel real sorry Mr. Hickey wasted his time trying to receive student input which apathetically wasn't there," he said. 
The next forum is scheduled with the Director of Saint Mic­heal's Laundry Service Norman Muller on Thursday, Nov. 8. 


Juniper 
continued from page 1 
which the company voted to leave 
for the next class. 
"We wanted the next class to have 
more to work with so hopefully they 
could do something even better," 
said Zarzanna. 
After Quick as a Dodo, Juniper Press published: Cleats, a football novella; Virgins and Martyrs, a col­lection of three short stor!es and a novella by Delores Frese, a Notre Dame English professor; Abecedary: an Antic Alphabet, a collection of poems by Ralph Mcinerny, director of the Medieval Institute; Molarity: on theRoad toSelling Out, cartoons by Michael Molinelli; Molarity; Don't Make a Right, also by Molinelli; Tbe Frozen Maiden of Calpumia by Mcinerny; and Payable Upon Return, a play by Mi­chael Varga. All of these have been bound editions. 
Molarity was the most profitable book that Juniper Press has pub­lished so far. The group that produced Molarity made a profit of three times what they had invested in the company. 
Molinelli said having his cartoons 
published was a great asset to him. 
"Having them published has given 
me validity," he said. "The books 
were the most substantial thing I 
could show." 
He adds that the books gave him a 
sense of permanence. "People 
throw out their newspapers," he 
said. "But they don't usually throw 
out books." · 
Molinelli has temporarily set his cartooning skills aside and is working with an architecture firm. However, he has developed a new cartoon for possible syndication and is waiting to hear from the newspa­per to which he submitted it. 
One of Christman's goals for the publishing class is to teach students that book publishing is a matter of balancing literacy quality with marketability. "Publishing is a busi­ness, not a humanities project," she said, adding that students in her class learn some very important business lessons, like getting arrangements in writing, sticking to a schedule, and getting along with employees. 
"The class taught me a lot of the practicalities of book publishing," said Winters. "We picked up practi­cal business knowledge and learned about the money structure." 
In addition to running their com· pany, students in the class use the textbook Book Publishing, go on field trips to various publishing com­panies, and host guest speakers. 
Some of Christman's students have gone on to work for publishing firms. Others have gone into diJJer­ent fields but enjoyed their expo­sure to the world of publishing, she said. 
"It's exciting to be a publisher and see the whole process through," said Christman. "We start with nothing and go all the way to selling a book in the bookstore." 
Winters agreed that Christman's unique class has been a success. "She took a risk starting such an unusual class," he said. "And she pulled it 
off." 
Israeli ambassador to talk on elections tonight at ND 
~dal to The Observer 
Gideon Rafael, Israeli Ambassador-at-Large, former Permanent Representative to the United Nations and Israeli Ambassador to En­gland will talk tonight at 8 at the little Theatre in the LaFortune Student Center. His talk is titled "The 1984 Elections and Middle East Perspectives." 
Ambassador Rafael migrated to Palestine in 1933, helped found a kibbutz and was one of three persons who organized the foreign ministry ofthe new nation oflsrael. He has been directly involved in all aspects offoreign policy, serving as Director-General ofthe Israeli foreign ministry and at various diplomatic posts in Europe. 
He is also the author of the recently published work Destination Peace: Three Decades of Israeli Foreign Policy. Tonight's talk is sponsored by the Mediterranean/Middle East Concentration. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 17, 1984-page 4 

'I 
I'll take the special 
lbeHuddle, a bastion against the dining balls' less tasty offerings, and champion of empty stomachs all over campus, becomes a busy place during midterm week. Students who find that a 


Hunger-striker faints, postpones Grenada trial 
~teu~ress 

ST. GEORGE'S, GRENADA -The murder trial of 19 former government and military of­ficials was postponed yesterday after one of the defendants, Phyllis Coarct, collapsed in the courtroom. 
Coarct told the judge she had been on a hunger strike for six weeks. 
Justice Archibold Nedd adjourned the case until Nov. 1. He said he would appoint a doc-' tor to examine Coard, and that she should also be examined by a doctor of her choice and a doctor of the prosecution's choice. 
The Grenada Supreme Court trial follows 
r-------~~--------------------------------. 


Student cuts always $6 with ID 
BRONZED and BEAUTIFUL 
Suntan Beds by the Wolff System 
Professional Acrylic sculptured nolls and silk wraps-per1ect solution lor nail biters. Call Krlsty for an appointment. 
Specializing in nail artistry. 

CALL 234-5350 143 Dixie Way South, Roseland, South Bend 
.........

~························ 
: 
: : : 

+ Beginning November lat (Thursday)from 3-4:30 : 
NEW 5 SESSION PROGRAM : 
We don't know what to call this program. It doesn't have 
•
a name. But we will cover: • 
HOWTO DEAL WITH TENSION, PRESSVRE. STRES~ 
• LEAilNINGREIAXATIONEXERCISES • 
• HOWTOIMPROVEYOVRSELF-ESTEEM • HOW TO FEEL BETTER THROVGH CHANGES IN : 
• WHATYOVTHINK • 
• HOW TO IMPROVE YOVR NVTRIRION • HOWTOMAINTAINANID£ALBODYWEIGHT : 
• HOW TO MANAGE YOVR TIME • 
Can you come up with a good name? Are you interested 
in a program like this? Call239-7336 or come by the 
•
3rdfloor ofThe Student Health Center to sign up. 
: 
Limited enrollment. 

•
Sponsored by: • 
COUNSELING & PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES CENTER : 
&VISITS FREE 
with purchase of2 cards. Share it with friends. 
Aerobics with Jane Brown Mon-Fri 7-8p.m. New Mid-Eastern Dance classes with Ruby Jazavre Mon evenings 7 · 8 p.m. $2.00 per session Beginners classes available 

an Aug. 8 ruling by a magistrate that enough evidence was presented in a preliminary in­quiry to send the case to trial. 
The magistrate dismissed charges against one defendant. Those facing trial include former Deputy Prime Minister Bernard Coard, his wife, who was a vice minister, and army Gen. Hudson Austin. 
They are charged with murder and conspir­acy in the Oct. 19, 1983 slayings ofPrime Min­ister Maurice Bishop, three Cabinet ministers and four other Bishop supporters. The slayings, following a power struggle in the left­ist government, helped trigger a U.S. invasion 
The Ob•ervcr/PhiiDeetcr 
cheeseburgerandj11es is a prerequisite to a success­ful bout with their books can get these at the Huddle from 7:30 a.m. until/ the next morning. The Huddle also offersfrequent specials to ease the burden thatan activestomach can impose on a stu­dent's wallet. 
The Budweiser Comedy Shop Tour Come enjoy 3 ofAmerica's hoHest young comedians: 
.leffAIUaaa Elayae Booelu Ricbud Lewie 
Appearing at O,Laughlin Aud. SMC October 17 8:00p.m. 
7:45 Pr.e-show comedy actsfeaturing:· 
Bernie Pelligrfno (1st place winner ofAmatf'ur Night) Ruth Kaiser, Kevin Flynn Ane Green 
Tickets on sale at SAB Record Store-LaFortune, O'Laughlin Box Office and Century Center 
Ticket. will be sold the night ofthe show I $4 GeneralAdmission 

• 

RESTAURANT&: LOUNGE 1033 LAKE STREET 
NILES, MICHIGAN 616/683-7474 
a Notre Dame, SaintMary's Tradition for over30 years• 

JUSTASKANYONEI 
ofGrenada six days later. 
Delay of the trial's opening was already assured because no attorneys appeared to rep­resent the defense. Delano Harrison, part ofa seven-member team of Jamaican attorneys which represented the accused in a prelimi­nary inquiry, said the defendants had failed to raise money to pay for their defense. 
Nedd said he would seek to appoint the same seven-Jamaican team for the trial. Under Grenada law, murder defendants unable to pay attorneys can receive court-appointed representation that will be paid for by the court. 


Industry output decline ends 21-month increase 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The nation's in­dustrial production declined a sharp 
0.6 percent last month, breaking a string of 21 consecutive monthly ad­vances, but analysts attributed half the decline to the auto strike and said the downturn does not signal the start ofanother recession. 
lbe report yesterday by the Federal Reserve Board said output at 
U.S. factories, mines and utilities slipped back in September after a tiny 0.1 percent August increase. 
It marked the first production set­back since a similar 0.6 percent decline in November 1982, the low point of ·the last recession. Since then, output has advanced steadily, with monthly gains as high as 2.3 percent. 
Most analysts called the setback temporary, blaming half the drop on the short strike against General Motors Corp. They predicted output would resume its upward climb in October, although at a more modest 
pace than earlier. 

"A one-month decline in this in­dex does not signal a recession," said Robert Ortner, chief economist for the Commerce Department. "This economy does not resemble anyth­ing like a business-cycle peak. It resembles the middle stages of ex­pansion." 
Economists cited declines in in­terest rates and figures showing a rebound in consumer spending to support their optimism about future growth. Several large banks an­nounced yesterday they were lowering their prime lending rate from 12.75 percent to 12.5 percent. 
In other developments yesterday, the British pound fell below $1.20 for the first time as the dollar finished mixed on world currency markets. Sterling dipped to $1. 1980 before closing at $1.2045 in London, still a record low and down from $1.2082 late Monday. The dollar set new highs against the currencies of Sweden and Norway and rose to a 22-month high against the Japanese yen. 
The number ofstates with double­digit unemployment in August fell to four from 12 a year earlier, the Labor Department said. 


WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY IN STLOUIS 

Considering Graduate Business Study? 
An MBA degree can build on any undergraduate major to prepare you for a meaningful career in business, industry or not-for-profit organizations. The MBA may be the most relevant professional training for your career. 
Meet a representative of the Washington University MBA Program. 
Jean Milburn 
will be on campus to talk with interestedstudents. October 30
Date:__________ 
Please call the Placement 
Office for an appointment. Whether you plan to pursue an MBA directly after graduation or would like to work first before attending business school, take this opportunity to learn about Washington University. 
Washington University encourages and gives full consideration to applicants lor admission and financial aid w1thout respect to sex. race. handicap, color. creed. or national origin. University policies and programs are nondiscriminatory. 








a 2 
---------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, October 17, 1984-page 5 

What the heck? 
Senior john Acker seems perplexed by this bench infront ofHoward Hall. Hejustcan'tunder-
ATHIN LINE 
SEPARATES 
LOVE 
FROM HATE, SUCCESS FROM FAILURE, LIFE FROM 
'DEATH. ALINE AS 
DIFFICULT

m·wALK 
ASA RAZORS EDGE. 
ll-11: 

stand why a bench would needa raincoat. But with the weather we've had lately, can you blame it? 


Milton Friedman stable after mild heart attack 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -Nobel Laureate Economist Milton Friedman suf­fered a mild heart attack yesterday and was hospitalized in stable condi­tion at Tulane Medical Center's Car­diac Care Unit, officials said. 
Friedman, 72, was resting comfortably and will be going home to San Francisco in a few days, said Dr. Antonio Quiroz. 
The economist was in town to help dedicate the new A.B. Freeman School of Business at Tulane. Fried­man's son, David, is a visiting profes­sor there. 
A conservative economist, Friedman is professor emeritus at the University ofChicago, a fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace at Stanford University and has advised President Reagan and other world leaders on economic policy. 
Friedman, a native of Brooklyn, N.Y., won the Nobel Prize in 1976. His major theory opposes traditional Keynesian thought, by saying gov­ernment should stay out of business and allow the free market forces to solve most economic problems. 
He also has suggested a negative income tax, where people who earn under a certain amount would get cash from the government. 

Foreign-born residents are largely new arrivals 
half the newcomers from Latin America arrived from Mexico. 
Other nations making sizable con­tributions to the U.S. population in that period included Vietnam, the Philippines, India, Iran, China, jamaica, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador and Colombia. 
The highest share of recent ar­rivals came from Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam in the wake of the war in Southeast Asia. 
Fully 97 percent of the 54,881 Laotians in the United States came here between 1975 and 1980. For the 2 31, 120 Vietnam-born resi­dents, 90.5 percent arrived in that five years, and the figure was 90.9 percent of the 20,175 Cambodians in this country. 
Mexico is the country listed as home by the largest group of foreign-born residents, 2,199,221, and of those one-third came to this country between 1975 and 1980, the Census found. 
A distant second on the list of homelands was Germany, with 849,384 U.S. residents listing that nation as home. However, most of them have been have been in this country 20 years or more, with only 6 percent arriving since 1975. 
Other nations heavily represented in the U.S. foreign-born population include Canada, 842,859; Italy, 831,922 and Cuba, 607,814. 
Overall the Census Bureau study concluded that foreign-born resi­dents earn slightly less than persons born in this country; are less likely to have finished high school -although they have about the same share of college graduates -and have about the same share of professionals as native-born persons. 
Both the foreign-born and native populations had about 16 percent ~ollege graduates, on average, the study said. 
However, 66 percent of U.S. resi­dents born in India had degrees, while 60 percent of the Taiwanese and 49 percent of Nigerians coming to this country had finished college. 
Persons born in the United States average 68 percent high school graduates, compared to 53 percent of arrivals from outside the country. But again it varied widely, from 97 percent of arriving Nigerians having diplomas, to only 21 percent of Mexicans. 
Median household income for the foreign-born was S14,588, compared to Sl7,010 for the U.S. born. 
Need LSU Tix CaII collect eves. 504-291-0642 
Assodated Press 
WASHINGTON -Nearly one­quarter of the U.S. residents who were born in another country arrived here between 1975 and 1980, a new Census Bureau report disclosed yesterday. 
The bureau counted 14,079,906 foreign-born residents in the 1980 census, with 23 percent having arrived since 1975. 
Of the 3.3 million recent arrivals, 
1.3 million came from Latin America and 1.2 million from Asia. More than 



MINORITY 
FELLOWSHIPS 
The Consortium for Graduate Study in Management. a seven universtty program designed to speed the entry of minority managers into business. offers fellowships to blacks, hispanics, and Native Americans. 
Full tuition for two years of study and stipends of $3000 the first year and $2000 the second 
year are awarded to qualified minority students interested in the Master of Business Admin­istration degree programs at Indiana University, University of Michtgan. University of Nort~1 Carolina. University of Rochester. University of Southern California. Washington University in St. Louis. or University of Wisconsin-Madison. The program is sponsored by over 196 corporations and foundations who seek to expand the pool of qualified minority managers. Undergraduate study in business or economics is not essential-all interested persons should apply A personal inter.view and U.S. citizenship are required For more information and application materials. write to: Dr. Wallace I. Jones. Consor•'um for Graduate Study in Manage­ment. 101 N. Skinker Blvd.. Campus Box 1132, St. Louis. MO 63130.  
Jean Milburn will be on campus to talk with interested students. Date: October 30 Time: 8:30 AM  
Consortium for Graduate Study in Management  




1~-\ZC)l~S EJ)C~E 
THE STORY OF ONE MAN'S SEARCH 
FOR HIMSELF. 
COI.l '-'1 BIA PICTI 'RES PRESENTS A ,\1ARCUCCI-COHEN-BENN PRom·crto~ A jOHN HYRUM FIL\1 
"THE RAZOR'S EDGE"BASl.J')~~E¥IAlJ~'Xy W SOMEJ{.SET MAUGHAM 
THERESA Rt!SSELL CATHERINE HICKS lD.ENHOLM ELLIOTT AS l'NCLE ELLIOT! AND JAMES KEACH "''~\jACK NITZSCHE "'"'""'~UOHN BYRl1M & BlLL MURRAY ~:m~L ROB COHEN ""'""'~\'ROBERT P. .\tARCUCCI ~'liD HARRY BE:"'IN '"""·~~JOHN BYRUM -­

i
.._ RI'AilTHfl'F:Iii.IT\1\00K ~ •-IC00.-00('.:.-:.::::::.= ­


OPENS OCTOBER 19 

The Observer Wednesday, October 17, 1984-page 6 

First FBI agent accused of spying says aim was Soviet set-up 
PIZZERIA AND PUB 
,------------------------------------------------------------­
10 Off 
130 Dixie Way North 
FOOTBALL FANS With This DAYS INNMOTEL
Roseland, Indiana 

CouponII BATONROUGE
(across from Big C Lumber) 
277-4519 
Two locations near the stadium: 
FREE DELIVERY 
10245 Airline Hwy-(504) 293-9680 215 Lobdell Hwy-(504) 387-0671 
-------------r------------
Wednesctav SUnday
I ~ 

1-800-325-2525
16", 11tem I 16". 11tem I 
S6.95 I S6.95 I 
I I 

Call belofe 11 1 Coli belofe 9:30 1 
Good for Oct. 27th Football game against LSU Tigers.
EXPIRESI0/!7184 EXPIRESJ0/19/84 I
l 

-------------------------~ -------------------------------------------------------------~ 




Two gunmen demand 'Wizard of Oz' slippers 
~ted Press 
SAN FRANCISCO · Two gunmen · instead of one wicked witt.:h · made off with a pair of ruby slippers sup­posedly used in the 1939 cla.<isic movie "The Wizard of Oz," police said yesterday. 
Ted Smith told officers two men came into his novelty store, Humpty-Dumpty & Sons, pulled a gun and demanded that he place the size 6 shoes worn byJudy Garland in the movie in an empty cardboard box. 
Smith said he took the slippers, which police said he valued at S20,000, from their place of honor on a red and white gingham pillow in a locked cabinet and put them in the box. 
"Of all the things for them to take," lamented Smith, a profes­sional clown who said he bought the shoes ten years ago from a man who had worked in the wardrobe depart· ment at MGM studios. Smith declined to say what he paid for the red-sequined, leather-lined, bowed slippers with the label, "Innes Shoe Co. Hollywood-Pasadena-Los An· geles," but said he was offering a Sl0,000 reward for their return. 

LOS ANGELES -An FBI agent charged with espionage actually was seeking to ingratiate himself with a Soviet couple so he could investi· gate them, his attorney said yester­day. 
Richard Miller was trying to set up his two alleged co-conspirators and had no intention of betraying his country, said attorney Stanley 

ND law professor says Baby Doe decision is grounds for removal of Indiana justice 
INDIANAPOUS -A Notre Dame 
law professor said yesterday that 
state Supreme Court Chief Justice 
Richard Givan shouldn't be retained 
because of his actions in the Baby 
Doe case. 

Charles Rice, who teaches con­stitutional law at Notre Dame, came out in support of a Lafayette-based group called "Remember Baby Doe, RetireJudge Givan," which is oppos­ing the judge in his attempt to gain another 1 0-year term on the court. 
The group is angered by the court's handling of the Baby Doe case in Bloomington. The infant died shortly after being born with 

Antojitos Mexicanos (Appetizers) Gratis 
WE HAVE CARRY OUT AT 
Greenberg. only trying to work with Soviets 
Greenberg, who is representing Svetlana Ogorodnikov, 34, and her the ~ 7 -year-old agent against estranged husband, Nikolay, 51, to charges he conspired with the prepare for whatever his superiors emigre couple to pass secrets to the might want him to do against the Soviet Union, denied an FBI allega­couple. tion that his client had confessed to Miller, the first FBI agent ever passing documents in return for charged with espionage, told the FBI S65,000 and a S675 trenchcoat. Ogorodnikov had claimed to be a 
Greenberg said Miller, a 20-year major in the KGB, the Soviet intelli­FBI veteran working in the Los An­gence agency. geles counterintelligence unit, was "It was Mr. Miller who went to his 
Smith said the slippers, which also had Garland's name in them, were one of six pair made for her to wear in the 1939 MGM film. 
In her book, "The Making of the Wizard of Oz," Aljean Harmetz, a correspondent for The New York Times, noted that Garland wore a size 4B shoe and her stand-in wore a size 6. Mervyn LeRoy, producer of the film, is quoted as saying that five or 10 pairs ofthe slippers were made in both sizes. 
The book also noted that a pair of shoes purportedly worn in the pro­duction were auctioned for S 1 5,000 in 1970 to an unidentified Southern California man. 
Within 48 hours of that sale, a con­troversy erupted over their authen­ticity. The book also said that at least two pairs had been stolen from the wardrobe department several months before the auction. 
Smith said the thieves obviously were not "Wizard of Oz" fans. "I think they're Wizard ofOz haters be· cause anybody who would do anyth­ing like this could never appreciate the Wizard of Oz for all its good­ness," he said. "They must be on the wicked witch's side." 

Down's syndrome and a number of known that while they were hearing internal defects in April 1983. his case, Baby Doe was dying and if 
Two Monroe County judges, after they did not grant emergency relief, hearing conflicting evidence on the child would lose not only his whether surgery should be per­right to further appeal, but his life it­formed, allowed the parents to with­self," Rice said. hold medical aid. The state Supreme Rice said that it "was the duty of Court ruled it had no authority to the courts at all levels to preserve make the local judges order surgery. Baby Doe's right to appeal so he 
But Rice said Tuesday that Givan could seek a reversal of that unjusti­and the Supreme Court effectively fiable decision." denied the baby the right to appeal by failing to intervene in the case. Givan has allowed a committee to 
"Baby Doe's right to life as form to support his retention. guaranteed by the 14th Amendment 

to the U.S. Constitution entitled him to seek review by the Supreme Court," said Rice. 


DAILV SPECIALS
"Chief Justice Givan must have 


Another debate 
Tbougb not presidential or vtce presidential, tbis debate did include such topics as abortion and the separation ofCburch andstate. However Marlo Cuomo's ideas, and not those ofthe GOP, were tbe 
superiors on Sept. 27 to report what espionage; he (Miller) didn't." he thought was a job well done, FBI spokesman John Hoos said having placed himself in a position yesterday the agency would have no with these two Soviet people," comment on Greenberg's allega­Greenberg said. "What followed was tions. Previously, Richard Bretzing, five days of interrogation which cul­who heads the FBI's Los Angeles of­minated in his arrest." fice, has denied repeatedly allega­
Miller, who is being held along tions by sources outside the FBI that with the Ogorodnikovs at Terminal Miller was incompetent. Island Federal Prison, has not for­Miller, whose wife and eight mally entered a plea in the case. children live in northern San Diego 
Greenberg described as "totally County, was arrested Oct. 2. In an inaccurate" the FBI's allegation that affidavit, the FBI said financial diffi­Miller confessed to passing secret culties had driven him into the arms documents. He called one docu­of the Soviets, and that he passed at ment listed in an FBI affidavit least one secret document, "trivial" and of no use to the Soviet "Reporting Guidance: Foreign Intel­Union. ligence Information." 
According to the FBI, Miller said he first established a relationship~--------------, 
with the Ogorodnikovs in May. The agency says it has known about the Los Angeles couple's pro-Soviet ac­tivity for several years. 
"He was trying to put himself in a position where he could do whatever the bureau wanted him to do, whether that be acting as a double agent, providing misinforma­tion.... He felt he had made that first step," Greenberg said.
"His superiors interpreted it as .______________.. 

The Observer/Phil D«tcr 

subject ofthisforum beld last ntgbt in the library Auditorium. Here Father james Burtchaell and pro­fessor Ralph Mdnerny consider the di.v..ussion, wbicb tbe Arts and Letters Science Program sponsored. Cuomo was notpresent at tbe debate. 
AT FIVE CORNERS OPEN 12 p.m. to 3 a.m. 

Old Milwaukee 
so~/glass 

$2.50 Ipitcher 
COMMONS 
Correction 
Because of an editing error, the picture on page 3 of Monday's Observer was incorrectly attributed. The photographer was Margie Kersten. 








Showcase 
Wednesday, October 17, 1984-page 7 
Jokesmiths at O'Laughlin tonight Springsteen imitators 
Special to The Observer 
"T"1he Budweiser Comedy Shop Tour, a series ofperformances by 1 three ofAmerica's hottest young comedians, opens at 8 ~onight in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The performance will feature Jeff Altman, Elayne Bossler, and · Richard Lewis, who have all made appearances on such shows as The David Letterman Show, the Tonight Show, and Merv Griffin. 
Altman can be characterized by the opening ofhis act: out walks a straightforward, all-American-looking young man who greets his audience politely, and then slams his head on a bar stool, knocking himself"out." Altman's style is unique, and a combination of comedy, impressions, and physical comedy affords him a versatility that makes him genuinely interesting and funny. Many ofhis routines center around characters he has created; his prize fighter, Leonard Moon, is a da-,sic. 
Boosler is the kind ofcomedian you laugh with rather than at. At age 26, with her Farrah Fawcett fluff and her Bain de Solei] tan, she does not make jokes about how ugly and old she is. Instead, she talks about things like how tough the dating game is, how men do numbers on women, and how women do numbers on men. Boosler, like Woody Allen, has an uncanny skill for creating humor from what many consider to be mundane. 
Compared to most lightweight jokesmiths of the '80s, Richard Lewis is an unexpected powerhouse ofironic wit and comedic tension. He paces a stage ceaselessly throughout his routine, walking and talking and palming down his hair as though this were a volatile visit with his shrink. The material pours out ofhim confession-style, and not a word sounds rehearsed or manipulated for laughs, yet the laughs are there. 
A Pre-Comedy show at 7:45p.m. will feature Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's' funniest people, the winners ofAmateur Night at Senior Bar: Bernie Pelligrino, Ruth Kaiser, Kevin Flynn and Ave Green. 
Tickets for the performance, which is sponsored by Campus Entertainment, are on sale for S4 at the O'Laughlin Auditorium Box Office, the Student Activities Board Record Store, the Century Center. or at the door. 





Wall of hands located in off-campus apartment 

Wall of hands-mark offriendship 
wall in the be~nning ofthe year 
and another outlined hers later, before graduation they had

by Tim Farrell 
features staffw'riter 
combined their images into a 
The Observer /Phil Deeter 
H
ave you ever been to the house ofhands? A certain group of off-campus Notre Dame students live in a house which has an entire wall dedicated to their friend's visits. 
The wall, although new to Notre Dame is an adaptation ofa famous Canadian surgeon's college days in Detroit. Bethune was a studem in the days when Socialist ideals were still new and promised hope for global peace. The medical student invited his capitolist scheptic friends to his small downtown Detroit apartment at least once a week. They would discuss books they had read on the subject of Socialism and tell of the-ir dreams of a global brotherhood without cut throat capitalist ideals. 
Although Bethune did not neces­sarily agree with all of their argu­ments, he did enjoy the company of these people. He wanted to record their presence, but did not want to put their futures in jeopardy. He feared if a list of these people was ever to show up later it could cause smaller hand on the wall, this hand joined them. On the more trajicincriminating results. In his heart he side, a finger on one friend's handknew that though they talked of 

had to be blotted out after a 

ideals, very few of them would ever lawnmower accident over fallactually promote revolutionary break.
activities. He decided to have the people outline their left hand in The wall did not pretend to be a charcoal on his white door as they replication of Bethune's, for one left the gatherings. By the end of his thing a black light in that second college carreer, not only was the floor room lit up the flourecsently door completely covered, but so painted outlines in a far more spec­was his entire wall. tacular way than mere charcoal and 
Bethune went on to develope the white wash. For another, right first mobile blood transfusion unit, hands soon inundated the wall, and helped establish Mao's first indicating that the people them­national medical system (the bare selves had changed as much as the foot doctors). Bethune died in 1939 medium. However, the beauty and ofblood poisoning after cutting symbolism offriendship continues. himself while operating on a wounded red army soldier during The wall in Grace was painted 
the fighting against Japan. over, perhaps in a hundred years 
Notre Dame's wall ofhands some one will have to scrape all the began on Grace hall's second floor paint off the wall and will find this two years ago. Art students, artifact ofa group's sophomore philophy teachers, parents, GM vice year. Today 1419 Anderson has a president's sons, leading school new hand wall. It is not like athletes and pharmacists all put Bethune's wall, nor is it like Grace's their left hand outlines on the wall. wall, times have changed, as have 


a genuine fraud 

by Pat Beaudine 
features staff writer 

omething quite unexpected is happening in the music industrySright now. An album that was destined to die, and a group that was going nowhere fast have both been revived and thrown into the spotlight by the newest force in music: cable television. 
The group is none other than John Cafferty and the Beaver Brown Band. The revival the band is experiencing is due to the recent re-release ofthe motion pictureEddie and tb~ Cruisers exclusively on cable T.V. A year ago the band would never have guessed this amount ofpopularity to be possible. After all, the soundtrack they recorded for the picture was a critical bomb and likewise the movie earned poor reviews. 
But, just as the band committed to tour the Northeast, as they've done for the past ten years, the bubble exploded. That's where cable came in. As Cafferty notes, "We were playing in Connecticut, and someone came backstage and said, 'Did you know that you sold 17,000 copies of the record in the past four days?'. I just couldn't believe it." 
Anyone who purchases this album can understand Cafferty's disbelief. How could such a good song as "On the Dark Side" go wholly unanswered on the rest ofthe lp? And how can a serious rock group be intent in simply imitating Bruce Springsteen? The parallel wouldn't be so blatant ifCafferty and the band established their own seperate identity while playing high quality music. The immitation would then come off as a first rate tribute to The Boss, rather than a cheap ripoff, as it has done. 
Other recording artist have done it. For example, John Cougar Mellencamp's last album sounded like the Rolling Stones, but he still maintained his image and the music never suffered. In Cafferty's instance, the only time he ever reaches into his true emotions is on the slow, moody "Tender Years". Possibly a second single from the album, its catchy chorus follows: 
Ob tender years Won'tyou wash away my tears How I wish you were near Please don't go, tender years. 

But then again, life's fleeting youth and all its personal dramas and crises are perfectly handled by Springsteen himself, so even at Cafferty's best he doesn't have much to offer. In other words, they'd be better being called a "Springsteen Covers Band" rather than the Beaver Brown Band -that is ultimately what they are. 
Ifyou can imagine, it gets worse_ "Season in Hell (Fire Suite)" is a muddled mess -a heavy drudge ofguitars and rough vocals. And "Those Oldies But Goodi~s (Remind Me ofYou)" fares no better. The song features the album's producer, Kenny Vance, on lead vocals, but instead ofoffering a fresher approach to rock, he delivers an awkward, whiny salute to fifties music. A cover of "Runaround Sue" further evokes that era; however, on the lp the song seems hopeles~ly out of~lace and can'.t ma~ch _the ori8i:nal in terms ofinterpretation or dehvery. Cafferty s vmce IS so buned by the mix that it only rarely rises above the din. 
The future could be brighter for this band at the moment. Without the lucky break that cable television has offered, John Cafferty and the Beaver Brown Band would still be stuck with a big failure on their hands. The band will have to overcome their Springsteen fascination, or they will never establish their own identity, nor take away any of the Boss' niche in the market. Therefore, these truly are tender years for this band because the fleeting success that they bring are really going to have Cafferty singing ... 
Please don't go, tender years. 


Ediie and the Cruisers soundtrack performed by John Cafferty and the 
Miracles happened on that wall too, 
thepeo~e,howeve~theori~nalky~~~~~~a~v~e~rB~ro~w~n~B~~~d~d~o-es__no_t_h_o_l_d_u~p~to~"O~n_t_h_e_D_a_r_k_S_i_d_e_»~~~ 
one friend outlined his hand on the still exists. 



~i~~~_()__J_._Jl__t_________________w_ed-ne-sd-ay,_o_ct-ob-er-17-,1-98_4~~p~ag-e8 
God, man, & football at Notre Dame 
It was meet and just that Father Hcsburgh •Is it illegal to option from the power I? From 
should use this page to address the issue of the wishbone? From the wing-T? 
abortion. No question whatsoever regarding •Is it illegal to use a two or three running back 
his qualifications. God and Man at Notre Dame offense? The full-house-T? The wing-T? The 
are secure in their Heaven. (Mea culpa, God double-wing with motion? 
and Person. In deference to Person McBrien's • Is it illegal to use a fullback in any fashion 
Theology department and the palazzo which other than as a third guard? 
he demands, I demurely pray "Our Person, •Is it illegal to sequence offensive plays? And 
who might be in an alleged heaven, give us to do so promptly? this day our welfare state ...") •Is it illegal to properly use great talent? But I digress. Since the Almighty and its off­• Is it illegal to have the incompetent appoint spring are in proper place at Notre Dame, the incompetent to misuse the competent? 
If you answered "No" to questions 1 
through 6 and "Yes" to question 7, you scored
James J. Carberry a 4.0. And so you have properly chastised 
yourselves for booing you classmates. 
guest column And now your final exam: Should the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame be an annual customer 
in the CFA whorehouse? Mind you, when you 
set pen to paper to respond, check your local 
what of the derivative offspring? That is, aca­1V schedule. ABC, CBS and/or ESPN may well 
demic integrity and that great annual fall decide to reschedule your exam calendar. 
liturgy, football? Should you agree with the Reverend joyce 
Well the Revcrandjoyce has put academics that Notre Dame belongs in the CFA, you are in its proper place. He recently solicited required to respond to two additional queries: alumni and faculty for contributions which 1. Ifone of our future CFA opponents hap­would enhance our academic substance. This pens, quite likely, to be imprisoned, should he did after accepting a S2 million donation our students be bussed to that penitentiary for a bloody swimming pool. Not enough that site every year; a home-on-home arrangement he inflicted a Dan Devine upon us and then being difficult until our opponent is paroled? solicited, without wise consultation, a well­2. Should we accept a bid to play a post­meaning pious high school coach to assume season game in the Toilet Bowl in Flushing, the awesome burdens of college coaching. N.Y.? No! Now he presumes to lecture us on Ifyou respond negatively to the above, boo priorities in the academic domain. 'Tis. not your classmates, their well-intentioned enough to give folly and cynicism bad names. coach, nor our gifted athletic director, a Vir­
Which inspires me to ask why our footall ginia gentleman ofconsummate good taste; go team was booed in the wake of their loss to boo and hiss at the 3rd floor west-wing ofthe Miami? Really very bad form, to be charitable. Dome. Would you boo my students should 80 per­What this university needs is a Faculty cent of them fail one of my exams? Boo me? Board in Control of Father Edmund P. Joyce, Perhaps those who hired me should be booed! c.s.c. 
Instead of booing your classmates, why not ask a few simple questions:• Dr. james j. Carbeny is a professor of 
•Is it illegal to use option plays more than four chemical engineering and a fanner member times per game? ofthe Notre DameAthleticBoard. 

United Way needs you now more than ever 
The United Way needs you. Once a year, we county gave close to S3 million to the United as a community are asked to give a few dollars, Way. This year they are hoping to surpass the so that those less fortunate in our area can S3 million mark. receive some much needed help. The United What part do the students of Notre Dame Way supports over 35 local organizations that play in this admirable effort? The past three 
provide a wide range of services for people years have seen the students donate a total of who need help in our community. These $7,748 in 1981, S7,925 in 1982, and S5,245 services include care for abused and ne-last year. This averages out to about one dollar per student annually. In this day and age, one dollar out ofour pockets is an incredibly small amount considering some of the other things
Tom Lezynski 

the money is spent on. The United Way Com­mittee this year set a goal of S12,500 for the guest column students. This is less than S2 per student. Un­fortunately, we may have overestimated the support we wwould get from the students. glected children, drug and alcohol abuse Over the past two weeks, I've examined every 
clinics, youth services, and health services. possible.excuse why people can't give, and The list goes on and on. People have been unfortunately, I could not find one legitimate giving to the United Way ofSt. joseph County excuse. The United Way does so much good for the past 70 years so that these services.can for so many people, that it deserves the full contunue to be provided. support of our students. As Merle Shain said, 
The well-known slogan for the United Way "Caring can cost a lot, but not caring costs tells, "Thanks to You it Works." This one more." phrase says so much about what the United What can you do? That is very simple. Ifyou 
Way is all about. It is people giving their time haven't already given, please do so immedi­and their money so that those who aren't as ately. See your section leader, your hall presi­lucky can receive much needed help. Once dent, or your hall United Way Chairperson people stop caring and stop giving, the United and give a little more, please do ~o. After the Way can no longer help others. Since so many verb "to Love," "to Help" is the most beautiful 
people depend on the United Way for their verb in the world. Please help the United Way very existence, it is imperative that people help others. keep on caring and giving. The St. joseph Community has always been a very caring Tom Lezynski is a United Way Campaign 
community. Last year, the people of the co-chatrman and a seniormarketing major. 


ND family can bring wave of optimism back 
Usually, when I walk the campus, I do so know the damage one liable suit can have. with my head down. 1bis prevents my Precaution must prevail. One suit can bring a drawing the attention of anyone I know, or university to its knees. worse -anyone l do not know but who knows When someone falls at a commercial prop­me. The key I have found is to avoid eye con­erty they do not sue for money -they sue for tact and I can safely pass even the most persis­millions. tent starers. Last week, my pavement policy No business, and Notre Dame is a business, did not work. can operate under the presumption that it can 
Late for a Spanish class, I was halted in my defy or ignore the laws of this country. I march up the South Quad by a friend who should have had the guts to point that out last proceeded to compare Notre Dame to Nazi spring. Germany. I absorbed his words and Put your hand in the ND administration's proceeded to slowly slither towards "mi wallet -the same wallet which runs a commu-· clase." nity of over 10,000, which funds hundreds of 
Yesterday, I read in The Observer a column thousands of dollars in scholarships, which is which sounded a similiar note about "Nazi responsible for the lives of its students not 
only today but always. Is allowing alcohol 
worth the possible legal hang-overs? 

Joseph Murphy 
This is besides the moral implications of a 
student body "on the bottle." Henry Adams 
here I stand wrote, "A teacher affects eternity; he never 
can tell where his influence stops." The 
proper role of the educator is not to teach his 
Notre Dame." Hurriedly, I checked the by-line students to learn to drink, but rather to teach 
to see if this was my frustrated friend; it was them to learn without drinking. 
not. To borrow a phrase from Father Hesburgh: 
So in a period oftwo weeks, South Bend had "What you are, I once was; what I am, you 
become Berlin and Hesburgh -Hitler in the soon enough will be." Each generation owes a 
minds ofat least two Domers. respect to the previous one. Just as the pres­
Surprisingly, neither Domer compared our ent generation will expect the same; respect football team to the German Army (both from the next. In short, our differences are of having suffered massive bombings by the U.S. time, not spirit. One issue or a thousand issues Airforce). cannot change that. I suspect there is a future 
About a month ago, another comrade of Father Hesburgh among us. Someone who mine referred to the campus security post as does what is right, not what is popular. His is a the S.S. At the time, I thought he meant "the leadership that works (without excuses). Sleeping Station". True the administration was less than can­
' 

So what of this Nazi Renaissance -are we in did in explaining why the policy was being 
the middle of WWII and someone forgot to implemented. In short, they lied to us. Per­
wake the kids? Is our infirmary really our haps neither side could breach the generation 
Auschwitz? Is Dean Hofman involved in the gap on this issue. 
production ofatomic weapons for the Reich? So where should we go? Well, we can either 
What I refuse to believe is that anyone can arm ourselves and fight the good fight, or we believe any ofthis, but apparently there are at can begin peace talks. The administration is least two Domers out there preparing for war. one enemy we cannot defeat. 
Monday, I was walking on the South Quad 'The time has come for a new realism. as usual with my head down studying the Rather than a policy ofdefeatism, of mutual cracks in the walkway. One of my associates self-destruction, Notre Dame can unite as it made a rude remark. I looked up and thought always has for the sake ofothers. Our purpose he was talking about an approaching female; here is an education to enable us to go out and he was not. share the Catholic persperctive to our friends 
Instead, a priest was lecturing two students and foes. Each one ofus must show the world who on this wet afternoon were carving what one committed Catholic can do. something into the new bench in front of If we cannot cope with an administration Alumni Hall. The rest of the day, I walked with which shares the same foundation ofChristian my head up. I watched; I listened. I saw a principles, how will we deal with the lions out bench on the other side ofthe quad drenched there? in spray paint. I heard more curse words than I So I say with great conviction that in your did after our loss to the flightless Falcons. heart you know I'm right. The difference be­
Above all, I spotted a decline in spirit -in tween a winner and a champion is that a that which has always made Notre Dame the champ never attacks an opponent when he's King of Schools (with or without beer). What down. And the difference between a man and has gone wrong? a boy is a man can accept the things he cannot 
Have we allowed our loss of football pres­change and remains an optimist. I ask only that tige and of alcohol to put us on the defensive you rememeber this the next time you see in the field of life? Who or what is responsible Gerry Faust or Father Beauchamp walking for this "wave" ofnegativism circling not only with their heads down. 
our stadium, but our school? Let us erase a past filled with mutual 
We cannot condemn Gerry Faust for all our mistakes, and prees on to the future. We can, woes. No one man built our school spirit, and we must, begin anew. No university can no one man can kill it. The blame cannot be remain static and survive. Either we work 
Ytewpoint wants to bearfrom you. Ifyou 
have an opinion, brtllant insight or humorous comment concerning anything _appearing in The Observerjustsend us a let­ter to P.O.Box Q. 
Viewpoint 
Policy 

placed on Father Hesburgh, he's never here. with the administration or against them. Will So then whose responsible? we have as Lord Chamberlain said so many I suppose that all of us in the Notre Dame years ago: "Peace in our time" or will this lull community are. Personally, I let myself be in spirit mark the beginning, rather than the 
ruled by the mob mentality which rocked our end, ofThe Third Reich? family last spring. I should not have con­joseph Murphy is a sophomore at Notre demned the administration's alcohol policy. Dame and is tbe Assistant Viewpoint Editor As the son of a commercial real estate man, I at The Observer. 
"ie~P-~O~i~n_t~-----------------------------------------w_e_d_ne_s_d_ay_,_o_c_to_b_e_r_I7_,_I_9_B_4~--pa_g_e_9 


Dare Americans control the immigration flood? 

On the subject of immigration, let's have first principles first. I begin with the proposi­tion that every nation has the right and duty to control the influx ofpeople across its borders over the long-run future. 
I have a second related proposition. No na­tion that throws up its hands, yielding to 
Max Lerner 
The Lerner column 
short-range political pressures and surrender­ing that right of control, is likely to hold for long the fabric of its basic institutions to­gether. 
America is a nation ofimmigrants. As it hap­pened I came to America with my family from Russia when I was 4 and, in the early years, we learned that America is the ultimate promise, but it is also hard ground for all immigrant families. I can understand the passion of the illegals · from Mexico and other Latin Ameri­can countries, from the Caribbean, from wherever · who brave dangers and hardships to get to American soil and to stay on it. 

The flood of illegals is too protean a mon­ster even to estimate. Professor Lawrence Fuchs of Brandeis University headed the first­rate Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, with Father Theodore Hesburgh of Notre Dame as its chairman. Its research fur­nishes the base for the Simpson-Mazzoli bill. Fuchs turns aside most estimates, saying: "Gossip about gossip is still gossip." 
Yet the problem is there, with an isness and a thereness that dwarf the gaps between the estimates. (Given the low estimate of 2 mil­lion and the high of7, the median 4.5 seems a possible guess.) The mounting torrent of il­legals, along with their new births, probably accounts for from a quarter to a half of the 
annual population increase of America as a 
whole. 

I suspect that most of the Hispanics, whose militant professional leaders rail at the bill, are basically for it. They have their new home to protect against fresh invasions. They might well prefer "amnesty" provisions ending with those who entered before 1980, as in the Sen­ate version, rather than the softer House ver­sion of 1982. But amnesty of some sort there must be, and a complex phased process of legitimizing those who apply for permanent residence. Otherwise America will be creat­ing a jobless, seething, permanent underclass ofillegals. 
Some sort of"sanctions" there must also be. Since Americans won't support a vast army of border and port police with stockades, the way to close off the flood is by penalizing employers who hire undocumented illegals. 
Americans are frightened ofanything smell­ing of an I.D. card, which means that identifi­
cation will be an enforcement headache. But a 
continuance ofthe flood will be a hemorrhage 
for the social organism. 

It is one of those cases where every year a 
failure to act escalates the mess, getting the 
nation deeper into the qu.agmire and making 
future efforts to get out ofit prohibitive. 
Who can blame the migrants themselves, 
who see only a border to cross that will move 
them · in a day or a week of hiding, dodging, 
scrambling -from wretched penury to salva­
tion, in a staggering upward mobility? 
Yet the stakes for America as a cohesive na­
tion are too high, and the dangers are too great 
of an overburdening ofAmerican society, and 
a further fragmenting of it along ethnic divid· 
ing lines. Americans have too long allowed 
history to happen to them by the accident of 
geography and the failure ofresolve in dealing 
with it. 
( c)l984, LOS ANGELES TIMES SYNDICATE 

P.O. Box Q 
Grow up, read the Constitution, stop it! 

DearEditor: 
I am sure that the vast majority ofour Notre 
Dame community is respectful of the rights of 
individuals and organizations to post an­
nouncements on the bulletin boards on 
campus which are designated for that pur­
pose. But some do not exhibit this respect; I 
am directing this letter to them. 
Recently, a number of students from the 
Democratic Socialists of America attempted 
to advertise the appearance ofa guest speaker, 
Mr. Jeremy Karpatkin of the national office of 
that group. Several times posters were placed 
in O'Shaugnessy Hall and in other places; each 
time the posters disappeared within 24 hours. 
I find it distressing that some person or per­
sons obviously felt compelled to remove 
them. 

I am sure that DSA is not the most popular group on campus, but they are a legitimate group, chaired nationally by Michael Har­rington and committed to operating within the political processes of this nation. I could understand the motivations of someone who felt compelled to destroy pamphlets advertis­ing Nazi rallies or the like (even ifI disagreed with the view that even Nazis or Terrorists deserve the right to be heard). But the case here is not so complicated. This is why I do not understand why, for the third straight year, someone or some group continues to destroy DSA material almost as soon as the thumb tacks have been put in place. 
To those responsible, ifthey are reading or even know how to read: Grow up, read the constitution, stop it! 
Alven Neiman AssistantDean College ofArts andLetters 
Releasing our pent UP. anxiety 

DearEditor: 
So, we booed Gerry Faust off the field on Saturday. Feels good to get all that pent-up anxiety out of the system. "The Bum, if he can't give us a winning football team, then the hell with him! Throw the guy out!" That's bet­ter. 
Yeah, Gerry Faust. When he first came here, we all loved him. He ate pizza with us and even threw the frisbee around with us. We said to ourselves (if "we" were here yet), "Wow, what a guy!." Has he become a differ­ent man? 
TI1e man we used to like was photographed 

crying as he left the field Saturday because we 
were booing him, to put it mildly. We used to 
like him because he was a nice guy. Now we 
don't like him because he can't produce a win­
ning football team. Granted, he's still a nice 
guy, but we don't want to bring that up to 
complicate things. Better just to say he's a 
"bum," and forget the past. 

All this makes sense, though. Faust should 
have understood it before he accepted The 
Position. This is Notre Dame. We win at foot­
ball here. just like we win in the real world 
when we get out there. When we scream "WE 
· ARE · NO" and revel the thought that "God 
made Notre Dame 1," we're reaffirming our 
rights to be Number One in the real world. 
Poor Gerry, he didn't know what he was getting into. He didn't realize that if he screwed up a football season or two (or three, or four) that he just would not be losing foot­ball games but morally offending the whole damn campus. He's a "Loser." That's why we booed him off the field. Hell, if we associate with losers, the damned disease may rub off on us! Then where would we be? 
But it's the same old story. We've heard it before. It's a Notre Dame standard: "Nice guys finish last." Well, I'm not Catholic so I really shouldn't bring up the initials of any other fa. mous nice guys (you know, like ~·J. C.?"). But you know who I'm talking about. He was booed offthe field on Saturday. 
Doesn't it feel good to get these things out of your system? It does me wonders ... 
]. Michael Yore Cavanaugh Hall 
People make Notre Dame special 
DearEditor: 
I am writing you in regard to Carol Brown's column tided, "Notre Dame will always remain a special place." In this essay the over­zealous author makes a hint of some kind of religious revelation. However, she focuses on some extreme image of Notre Dame as being embodied in the golden statue of the Virgin Mary on top of the dome. Instead of being enthralled by the meaning behind the image of Mary, Brown seems simply to worship the image. 
The core and character of Notre Dame is not the image ofOur Lady. It -and I'm sorry to -open your eyes -is merely the name of the University and its heavenly patron. The core and character of Notre Dame are the people who study, play and work here. These people make it a special place because of their per­sonalities, achievements, attitudes, and ac­tions. People make up the core of Notre Dame, NOT an image. The image of Notre 
Dame takes on an even more unique identity 
in the way it teaches-with a moderate amount 
of success · people to relate to others after 
they graduate. The attitudes, knowledge, and 
ideals learned while at Notre Dame seem to 
stay with the alumni to a greater, or lesser, ex­
tent throughout their lives. People give Notre 
Dame its spirit and mystique, not a golden 
statue on top ofa golden dome! 
The awe Brown displays for Notre Dame is 
as bad as the overzealous alumni who invade 
the campus in their solid green slacks and 
plaid jackets. Yet, the overabundant ex­
uberance ofa few alumni on a given weekend 
is not nearly as reproachful as the attitude dis­
played in Brown's essay. Sure, Notre Dame is a 
great place to be but it does have its faults· it is 
a human instutution and subject to human er­
ror. 

Being at Notre Dame is not the cure-all and 
end-all of life's problems. Our experience at 
NO can only give us tools to use in dealing 
with the difficulties of life. 
Kieran]. Phelan SorinHal/ 

Supporting Israeli violence is a mistake 
DearEditor: 

First of all, let me apologize to anyone whom I offended with my article on U.S. sup­port of Israel in the Oct. 3 issue of The Obseroer. My intentions were not to invoke anti-semitic emotions but, rather, to suggest a reason as to why Americans. keep getting killed in Lebanon. A friend of ~ine, who hap­pens to be ofjewish heritage, asked me why I didn't like Jewish people and, further, why I felt he had a "big mouth." I realized then that my comments were not having the effect I in­tended. For the record, I would like to say that I have no bias towards or prejudice against any people ofany particular creed or heritage. And for the remarks I made that were offen­sive to anyone, specifically jewish people, I submit my regret. 
In light ofIsraeli Prime Minister Pere's visit to the White House, I feel that the question of American support ofIsrael should be raised. It seems to me that many of us don't really have adequate knowledge of the history and prin­ciples behind this alliance. With the foreign policy debate between Reagan and Mondale coming up, maybe someone could focus on the reason for our support of Israel. I think ­you'll find that these reasons will not be dis­cussed, however. To continue supporting a government that uses violence as a means to an end is a mistake. 
Michael McCabe Senior 
Using social prejudice is in poor taste 
DearEditor: 
Being somewhat of a shy person myself, I 
would like to respond to the article, written 
by Cat Francis, which appeared in last Wed­
nesday's issue ofThe Observer. 
It seems as ifFrancis has quite a misconcep­
tion of the nature ofshy people. She portrayed 
the typical shy person as a schizophrenic 
mess, preoccupied with paranoid fears of 
being rebuked by cashiers and librarians, con­
tinually getting lost in the crowd, repeatedly 
being trampled by others and holding con­
versations with ketchup dispensers for lack of 
any outlets of friendship. As is obvious, shy 
people are not at all this way. They are merely 
people who have insecurities like everyone 
else. However, unlike the norm, shy people 
deal with these insecurities by remaining 
somewhat quiet in order to avoid possible 
rejections and humiliations. It must be 
pointed out that this is no more maladaptive 
than the extrovert's method of dealing with 
insecurities by making herself quite visible 
and hence reducing the chance of any out­
right rejection, or than the compromise of 
these two defense mechansims exerted by the 
average individual. 
Granted, it may be the case that Francis was 
simply attempting to write a humorous 
column (in which case she should seek the 
advice of someone with a better sense of 
humour, such as Ernie Bushmiller ). Still, it 
should be obvious to any but the dullest of 
people that it is in poor taste to use social 
prejudices as the media for jokes. 
joseph]. CreelyIII Cavanaugh Hall 
A pathetic and humiliating spectacle 
DearEditor: 
Looking pathetic on the field is only part of the Irish decline. 
Notre Dame sports have reached an aU-time low when a sophomore football player goes on national television before a big game to say how he's going to teach the other team (Miami) a lesson and ends up with nothing but egg on his face. 
Shame on him but, mostly, shame on his coaches for allowing such a pathetic and humiliating spectacle to ever take place. 
SandyBaker Mt. Holly, NJ. 


The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Ed1tor·m·Ch1ef . . ... Bob Vonderhe1de Busmess Manager . . .... Dave T;~iclet Managmg Ed1tor Mark Worscheh Controller . . .......... Maripat Horne 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the News Ed1tor .. Sarah Ham11ton Advert1smg Manager . Anne Culligan Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Marys College. It does not necessar1ly News Ed1tor .... Dan McCullough Clfculat/On Manager .. Jeff O'Neill reflect the pohc1es of the admm1strat1011 of e1ther 1nSt1tut1on. The news 1S reported as Samt Mary·s Ed1tor Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager. . . . . Kevin Williams accurately and as ObjeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned ed1tor1als represent the opm1on Sports Ed1tor . . ... M1chael Sull1van of a ma1or1ty of the Ed1tor1al Board Commentar1es. letters and the lns1de Column V1ewpomt E.d1tor .. Dave Grote present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS ava1lable to all members of the Features Ed1tor Mary Healy 
Founded November 3, 1966

commun1ty. dnd the free express1on of varym9 opm1ons on campus. through letters. Photo Ed1tor. Pete Laches 1s encouraged 


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Boxing Club is holding its annual novice tournament this week. Finals will be tomorrow, beginning at 4 p.m. in the boxing room at the ACC. The public is welcome to attend. -Tbe Observer 
The Saint Mary's ski team wm be meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the LeMans lobby. Anyone interested in a trip to Colorado may attend. -Tbe Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will be meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. For more information, call Timo at 287-8264.-Tbe Observer 
The ND Ultimate Frisbee Club will be 
meeting today at 5: 15 p.m. in front of Stepan Center to scrimmage the South Bend/Niles ultimate team. For more information, call 283­1588. -Tbe Observer 
Wednesday, October 17, 1984-page 10 
Co-ree basketball and volleyball captains should at­tend meetings today in the football auditorium in the ACC. Basketball captains will be meeting at 4:30p.m., and volleyball cap­tains will be meeting at 5 p.m. -Tbe Observer 
A horseback-riding trip to Happy Trails Riding Stables is being sponsored by NVAonSunday, Nov. 4. Trips will leave at 10 a.m., 11:30 a.m., noon and 1:30 p.m. Ifyou have put your name on the waiting list or are interested in signing up, bring S5 to the NVA office to cover transportation and rides. -Tbe Observer 
"Fitness Focus," a monthly newsletter published by Non-Varsity Athletics, is now available. To place your name on the mailing list, call the NVA office at 239-6100. · Tbe Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at Tbe Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs must be written clearly.-Tbe Observer 
Boxing club 
•

novice tourney 
Yeeterdey'a Re.ulta Ughnw.lght Tom Berens dec. Jchn Kung Weltwwelght Bob Harig dec. Kevin Morrissey Joe Cox dec Kevin Duggan Middisweight Ted Gradel dec. Tony Pezka Bil Davin dec. Tom Brennan Brendan Fitzpatrick dec. Ray Powers CnJI..weight Michael Heimle dec. Steven Freahi 
Ught-~t 
Denny Coleman dec. Tim lyon 

The Obsen•er Notre Dame offict·. located on the third floor of LaFortune: Student Center. accepts clas..o;ific:d advertising from 9 a.m. until -l p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obserl'er Saint Mary's office:. lo<:atc:d on the: third floor of Haggar College: Center. at-ccpts dassifit·ds from 12:.~0 p.m. until 3 p.m.. \1on­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classiftnb. is .~ p.m. All dassifieds must he prepaid, eithc:r in person or by mail. Charge: b I 0 tTnt!'> pt·r fi\'C l·haral'·





Classifieds 
ters -r dav. 

YES, I'M DESPERATE -FOR A RIDE am selling 4 S.C. GA's & 1 student. Best Pebbles Happy 20th B-day, Love Bam. 
BACK FROM D.C. THAT IS. HELP! Offer. Call Mike at 2047.
NOTICES 1. FOR SALE 
W3: LETS FIXX THE FURS! SCREW PATTY2973 
SQUIER. HE'S A RATI! CHI-TOWN, 2 SC GAs 4Sale-Cheap-ROB 1739 
HERE WE COME. LOVE. ZOID. 

TYPING AVAILABlE. 287-4062. 
For Sate: 2 S.C. GA's call1806 A TASTE OF THE WORLD A TASTE OF RIDERS NEEDED TO N.JERSEY OR THE WORLD ATASTE OF THE WORLD 
THE LIFE SCIENCES liBRARIAN, M.EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. I HAVE 2 G.A.'S & 1 STUD TIX FOR I need many Penn State tickets: NYC CAU GIAN 232-0321 CUMMINGS. IS A REAL ZERO' As sru­CAll MRS. COKER 233-7009. SALE CAU JOHN 2835 I know you want to get rid of them. Sell me 
NEED RIDE to and from St. Louis at dents of the bio dept . we hope he flunks 
GA's in quantity and don't be caught with TYPING 
break. can leave at one·s convenience. his dissertation. 
them when nobody wants them. That's2 S. CAROLINA GA's FOR SALE PAUlCall Lisa at SMC 5464

Jackie Boggs right, I'll pay. Calt3811. ATTENTION All ARTISTS The JPW
4052 Happy Birthday, Angie' From Dave. 
684-8793 committee is in need of some d8Signs for I need 4 Penn St. Tickets -Call Mim1 at 2 S CAROLINA GA'S FOR SALE--CALL its stationary. Got any ideas? If you do,4 tix -2/So. Carolina, 2/Penn State. Call 284-5201 -THANKS! 

LAURA ]2764 submit them to the Student Activities Of­233-2163 or 234-5778. 

WiN type your paperll, manuscripts, etc fice by Thursday. October 18. The artist of 
Fast and accurate. Reasonable rates. WOULD THE MEMBER OF THE NO
GOING TO CHICAGO FOR BREAK! THE 4 STUD TIX 4 S.C. GAME 4 SALE.MAKE the winning design will receive $20. The 
Pick up and drop df service. Cell Mary STUDENT ACT.BOARD IS RUNNING COMMUNITY WHO RAN INTO ME WITH 
I OFFER 2n-311o basic format is a letterhead and logo on 234-5545. BUSES FROM N.D. to OHARE AIRPORT HIS BIKE AT THE CIRCLE ON 5 OCT
top. and some type of border on the bot­

TICKETS
AT 3P.M. FRIDAY,OCT.19th and 4P.M. tom. Thanks for your time and effort. LIKE TO REIMBURSE ME FOR MY TYPING AVAILABlE. 287-4062. 
SAT., OCTOBER 20th. FOR THE FIRST ..___---J MEDICAL BILLS? THEY WERE $67.50, 
I 

AT SUN­TIME EVER, 7P.M. I have4S. Carol1nat1xs(GAs!1)& 1 Stud PERSONALS 232-oBI7 
GOVIEANMENT JOBS. 118,558 -DAY,OCT.28th; WE WILL BRING STU­L----------'
!IX-Will trade for 4 Penn State tiXS (GAs)·150,563/YEAA. NOW HIRING. YOUR DENTS BACK TO N.D. FROM OHARE. Call Joe at 1933-THANKS! ­AREA. CALL 805-187-eciOO EXT. A-COST IS $10 EACH WAY AND SIG­
I love the smell of napalm in the morning. SEX SEX SEX It smells like .... victory, that is why we GOOD LUCK TO OUR VARSITY CREW­11834. NUPS ARE AT THE RECORD STORE IN I would like to trade two South Carolina BESIDES THAT I NEED 2 PENN ST. never smell napalm around here. MATES! TAKE BOSTON AND PH IllY!!!!

laFORTUNE.SAVE MONEY SAVE GA'a for two Penn State GA'a. I may NOVICE WOMEN ARE BEHIND YOU
PRO-TYPE Specializing in di-uttiona. GA'S. IF YOU CAN SUPPLY EITHER, ............... ··························
MONEY! 111en toea In a PSU student tlcklt or law papers, resumes and student papers two, plus my 111'81-bom aon. c.H Mike CAllJOHND.1841. ATTN. JUNIORS Halloween Barn Pany 10()/1 Oct. 31 Hayrides,DJ,Dancing,Food and
277-5833 AlDERS NEEDED at 23•5323 If you're lntwwted and­liTTlE TOMMY TORTER Dnnks All this for only $5. buy tix lET THEM EAT CAKE l!!!!! 
I need riders to St. Loula or Central Ml• can work out e ct.l. 
Wordproceasing and Typing. 272-8827 Wed..Thur.&Fri this week at the dining
eourl for October break. Call Maria at ATIENTION SMC SOPHS halls.
284-5534. SOUTH CAROLINA GAS -I HAVE 6 STEAMBOAT, DAYTONA BEACH, GHOSTBUSTERS coetume S. Y.R "Who
GA'S FOR THE S.C. GAME. CAll CORPUS you gonna call?" don't forget to bring a
SOUTH PADRE, I nead • ride beck from K.C . .tier brwk X2275, ASK FOR PAUL-BEST OFFER LET THEM EAT CAKE!!!?! CHRISTI/PORT "A".. Sundlase Tours costume back from break. Tickets on sale 
even m«e th8n the lrlah nead • ,_ 1!!1!!11!11!! CHRISICHRIS!CHRIS!CHRIS after break. 
"Break from the Books" winter and spring footbell coec:hl Can you help me? Call .......... ICHRIS'CHRISICHRIS! THANKS FOR ORDER CAKES AT IRISH GARDENS ski and sea tripe available NOW! N­E.J. 8t 3340. F•t! SOUTH CAROLINA G.A. TIX -I NEED 3 ......................... THE PIZZA AND BAEWSKIES AFTER NOWFOR TAILGATERS OR BITHDAYS Years Eve ski week from $155. Daytona TOGETHER, HOPEFULLY. PATTY OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & liQUOR, THE GAME. THE NEXT ONE IS ON US! LOW PRICES AND NEXT DAY 
from $89, Padre from $78. Corpus CARRY OUT Tll3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE
RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCHESTER. NY 2973. LOVESANDM. DELIVERY Christi/Port "A" from $79. HURRY call FOR FAU BREAK. CALL MIKE 2510 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Sunchase Tours tol free lor more infor­................... ..... . .................... . South Carolina tlx For Sale mation 1-8()()-321-5911, within Colorado RIDE OFFERED TO PENSACOlA. I have one student ticket for sale. Cheep, 1-8()0-621-8385 ext. 302, local (303) 493­
FlORIDA. CAll FRANK AT 287-4024 Cheep! Call Mario at284-5534. PATELLA LAKE 
Kim Trenner Why do I feet as though this 6703 or contact a Sunchaae Campus ATTENTION PETE LABBA'T: PATELLA LAKE whofe thing is getting very foolish? WhyRepresentative or your local Travel NEED RIDE TO HARRISBURG OR ANY eStudent AF tick cheap :calll843 THE COUNTDOWN HAS STARTED. 

PATELLA LAKE do I keep putting these ads in? Why does Agency TODAY! SOON WE Will BE IN THE MIDST OF

TURNPIKE EXIT IN CENTRAL PA CAN PATELLA LAKE Denno keep putting his ads in? Why don't 
COMPLETE DEBAUCH

lEAVE FRIDAY, WILL SHARE USUAL HELP! NEED 4 PENN GAs-CALL SUE PATELLA LAKE 
you ever answer? Why don't you go outTYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8187 ON THE lOVElY GEORGETOWN

CAll ED AT 1220 or 1227. 3843 PATELLA LAKE with me next weekend? 
CAMPUS! 

............................................................. PATELLA LAKE 
Your humble servant, 

$$CASH FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ PAN­Need riders to DAYTON leaving 10/18. For Sale 4 GAs and 1 Student ticket for I'll DRINK TO THAT, BUDDY! PATELLA LAKE 'PupDORA'S BOOKS 937 SOUTH BEND --LOU
cau Sean 277-3953. South Carolina. FACE VALUE!!! Matt AVE. 233-2342 
NEED RIDE TO IU BLOOMINGTON FOR ·········. Patty Scalten is a goddess HUNGRY? FOR········-······ ······ CAll DELIVERY
coco J

BREAK. CALL TOM 1240 FOR SALE: 2 S.C. GA'S CAll BARB FROM THE YEllOW SUB 272-4453THE WONDER DOG! 
4241
I LOST/FOUND I 1805 
YO!!! NEED RIDE TO DOWNTOWN MO-TH 8·11pm FA-SA 8pm-1am 

RIDE NEEDED-TO BOSTON OR ........................................................ ······ 
CHICAGO CAN LEAVE AFTER 12:30PM WORCESTER, MASS CALL JOHN, 3801 O.K. So -·re 3-3 and Saturday's game
LOST MONDAY: HP-41CV CALCUI.A­FRI. OCT. 19 CAll ED AT 2230
DAVEMILESImeans nothing. But I have 2 S.C. GA'sTOR WITH MATH PACK PAT 277-6464 IF YOU DON'T COME AND PICK UP

FOR SALE and I'm sure some die-hard I LOVE YOU, JEFF. OOOH, BABY, Hey Massive! Happy B-Day to our favonte 
THESE y V!!! LOFTS.

NEED RIDERS TO PITTSBURGH. wants to see the game' Call Eric at 1966 LIMA resident Hope that this will cheer
LOST: Camera during Miami Game. BABY, BABY. 
I'M GOING TO BURN THEM! 

lEAVING OCT 19. CAU ROBIN AT 234-you up and bring in lots of phone callsPIIIUe Call Pattie 284-5087 AFFECTIONALEL Y YOURS, 
7319 NEED 4 GA'S FOR S. CAROLINA. TO­CILA BREAK SERVICE PROJECT in from pretty girls. Cause we really want to
BOB 

LOST Gir1's Denim Jacket on South GETHER IF POSSIBLE. CAll PAT AT St.lou1s.Call Mary Miltenberger 277-see you get patriotic again. Because. if Quad, Sun. 1~7. huChicagobuspasain HEY YOU!·· TAKE THE BUS!! Spaces 3055 0117.Sign up 1n CSC. they call, -know as well as you that IT'S 
' ·, 
open on BUS to BUFFALO and A GIVEN !! HAPPY 19th, JON BRUN­pocket. If found. please return to · SAFE TO THRASH!!I
CLEVELAND for Break. Call Greg x411 5. SOUTH CAROLINA GA'S FOR SALE: NER ..... x1940 ... All GIRLS PLEASE
OBSERVER. third floor LaFortune TAKE THE BUS!!!! CALL KEVIN 4602 CALl JON TO WISH HIM A HAPPY TO THE E AND H FliGHT COM· 
BIRTHDAY. signed, THE ZONE LOST:PAIR OF EYEGLASSES, TAN HEY MARK STOLARZII!

ATLANTA I need a ride back. Share exp. FOR SALE: 2 S.C. GA'S. CAll ROBIN MANDERS:How about dinner?SMC
FRAMES, IN CORBY'S OR BRIDGET'S 
SOON I WIU. BE VERY AFRAID, 

Todd 1688. AT234-7319. GMC
OVER THE WEEKEND. IF FOUND ESPECIAllY IF SAM AND JOHN ARE GERRY: "They (Air Force) have Mttar
PLEASE CAll2681. 
AROUND. (By the way, is there any snow GROSSE PTE.or DETROIT need ride for athlltM than -do." GIVE ME ARIDE TO FLORIDA FREE! Leaving 4-sale 2GAs & 1studfor S.C. 1067 

..... 
forecast lor next week?) 

Thurs.Call Cindy 283-5039 break JeH2n-3875 BREAK!!
LOST: Guc:ci coinpurse in Huddle on Sat. 
--lou

MY PARENTS DON'T LOVE MEnight 10!13 -has great sentimental value' ANYMORE!!! Eat the Eats. Meet us! HOSPICE is ser·Need ride 10/19 or 10/20 A.M. toPLEASE return to 822 P.E. or call JiH at
... Det.SMC-5181 So I have two South Cerollna G.A.'a for . ······ ving lunch Thursday, Oct. t8. 1 1:30 ­
2666. Thank you. 

..... 
AAA&&&&AAHHHHHHHHHHHIIII!I!!I 1 :30, Center for Social Concerns. THANX ST. JUDE. BUT I NEED YOUR Need a ride to ROCHESTER/ UPstate NY 
Cell Sheila 8t 2810. (That Mike DeMaio laugh) Homemade food, bread and more' HELP AGAIN. 
LOST A TIMEX WATCH AT AIR FORCE 
..............................

for fall break. WiU share usual. Terry 1888. Otl, by the W8y, wtllle I have your •tten­GAME. IF FOUND CALl PAUL AT 1139 
tlon, NOTRE DAME HOCKEY! What are the business hours for Jeff's Is the M8rkatlng Queen out there Pleasure Palace? From a prospective

I Juat turned 21 on Mondlly, and I'm atiH NOTRE DAME HOCKEY!
LOST; WHITE MEMBERS ONLY anymore? I've heard that she's become

NEED RIDERS TO C. JERSEY FOR looking for my prince. NOTRE DAME HOCKEY! customer. 
JACKET. IF FOUND CAU STEVE 3527 quite the BCA Queen now Crown thatBREAK lEAVE FRI. BILL 4052 If you're good-looking and available, lOST FRIDAY, OCT. 12, ROOM 101 midterm'!!

gimme a call --who knows what could
························· ··············· .. ······················ ...................
HURLEY. 
..............................................

Help Wanted Bartenders. Barmaids. happen? Potter take any road trips in the last two Kim Trenner Don't you jUst love Phil?
Waitressae. Apply at CHIPS or call years? Welt maybe the crutches will help .. 
Don't break his heart. he has already

2334858 now. your ego. FOR SALE; 4 S.C. GAS CAll MARY at TRIP TO CRESTE BUTIE. COLORADO bought the engagement ring. It was going
WANTED ] 
SPONSORED SKI to be Lowanda's.l hope it fits. DennoI DESPERATElY NEED A RIDE BACK 1363 BY TEAM 113 TO TO N.D. FROM PITTSBURGH AFTER ..................... 1/11 INCLUDES 5 DAY LIFT TICKET 6

COME & EXPERIENCE ONE This is Kevin HowtJrd's first personal. Tell 
BREAK. I'LL HELP WITH EXPENSES. 4-SALE 2 SC STUD. TIXX. CAll PAUL NIGHTS lODGING TRANSPORTATION 
of the AREA'S MOST EXCITING him you saw it. Guess who?! 
CAll JOE AT 2085. 2119 AND LOTS OF WILD FUN' CONTACT Csvanaugh Hill has not won an interhall r· . ......... . football game in 3 years. Come see
FOOD & DRINK 

............................................................... JULIE 4354 
ESTABLISHMENTS BMC Fencera Clln parry anything!
TWO S.C. GAa FOR SALE. CALL 277-Alumni Hell extend that streak on CartierI NEED A RIDE TO DETROIT ONr~ H.l.'s Old Town Saloon. 213 Front St., 
Field.

FRIDAY (OR THURSDAY) WilliNG TO 0854 YO-KRISTINE WHO IS THIS LEPREC­
Niles, Mich., is now accepllng applica­Boyfriend abuM......Cure It)!!!' 
r SHARE EXPENSES!! CAll PAUl HAUN????????? 
tions for Wait staff. Bartender, Hoeteases. 

X1609 DESPERATElY need 2 Penn State tix!!! .................................. . ················. lfeei like ... like . 
r~ Doormen, & Bus Staff. Only experienced ATTENTION: Only three more shopping An Enzyme!
Will pay$$$$ call Beth 239-6328 Q:WHAT DO EEs AND A MAN MAKING
need apply. 684-7774 days until Margo Kirchner's birthday. A
S30.000A YEAR HAVE IN COMMON? A: ······ 
r Need ride to Northwestern/Chicago can ······························ .................. . 
,_priority gifts: '66 Mustang convertible help John 283-3167 2 STUD TIX S.C. CAll291-4364 NOTHING.

~ WANTED: RIDERS TO RICHMOND/DC (black or red) phone answering machine 
. ............................. . Bell111elt or Not ... 

.. ... ... .... ... ... ········ .. . ....... . . ............. . 
n-bike (just like the one that

AREA FOR OVER PART OF OCTOBER Driving to NO from NY after break? Pull U Need to sell 2 GAs and 1 Stud to S Car. Desperately need ride to PHILADELPHIA a was I actually saw Father Heeburgh walking
~· BREAK. lEAVING THURS. NIGHT stolen) yellow or white roses certain
Haul from Spring Valley NY. WiH pay gas, game.Call Mark at 2443 (VILLANOVA AREA) Will share exoenses on the quad last Friday!
10/25 AND RETURNING SUN NIGHT choice specimen from acr0111 the lake
r trailer, and $100. 287-7400 
10/28. WANT TO GO? GOOD!' CAU Any and all donations should be sent to 
r 
2 S CAROLINA GAS FOR SALE CALL HEYS PALS!! Come and party with Horge JEFF AT 3859. Riders r-*1 from NY/NJ area on Oct MARYAT4294 351 Badin, or jUst caH 3814 and wish & Murph tonite ·in 165 Dillon. BY.O.B Margo a Happy Birthday. 
28. Call CArolyn 284-51 03 ................. . ........................... . UNDERWEAR REJECTORS UNITE Bring your own Bntannica' We're lusting
NEED RIDE TO MDWY AIRPORT FAt NEEDED: 5 SOUTH CAROLINA G.A.S for you!! 

(. 1G-19. MUST lEAVE NO 12-1:30. Will 
Need 1 RiderttJl.A.Ieaving Friday. Kathy CAll: GINA 3712 THANKS!! VA GOTTA LOVE EM TRIPS....... VA
MAKE IT WORTH YOUR WHILE TIM DESPERA TEL Y need ride to PHILADEL­

r, SMC4140 GOTTA LOVE EM TRIPS.......... VA
1045. PHIA (VILLANOVA AREA) for October
S.C. STUD TIX 4-SALE CAll2116 GOTTA LOVE EM TRIPS ....... 
I break; wm share expenses; caH Minam
............... ........ ......................... .
AIDE TO FlORIDA FREE! leaving 4174 HEY GARSIDE-Keep smiling' UNC has( F ROOMMATES WANTED 277-2367 Thurs. Cel Cindy 284-5039 FOR SALE: 2 S.C. GA'a. Cal Bill x1305 Happy !Hjay Uz, your cuz G&T's waiting lor you' 
ll --------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
I 
The Observer Wednesday, October 17, 1984-page 11 i 
Post-violence celebrating 
Detroit honors Tigers with parade 
Associated Press alike, pressed shoulder to shoulder "I don't think anyone went to 
DETROIT -Detroit, its image to catch a glimpse of their heroes. work today -or to school," Monag­marred by violence following the Confetti poured from office win­han said, just before mounting the World Series, honored its champion dows along the two-mile parade stage to chat with Gov. James Tigers baseball team with a festive route from Tiger Stadium to Ken­Blanchard and other dignitaries. but peaceful downtown ticker-tape nedy Square. "Bless you, boys," Blanchard said parade and rally attended by an esti­The crowd roared approval as as he presented Monaghan and mated 60,000 cheering fans. each car in the parade discharged its former Tigers owner john Fetzer 
"The scene today is a scene of the passengers, but reserved its loudest with a proclamation declaring this real Detroit," said City Council Pres­applause for pitching ace Jack Mor­week "Detroit Tigers week" in Mic­ident Erma Henderson. ris, slugger Kirk Gibson and higan. 
"They're peaceful, they're happy, shortstop Alan Trammell, the Series' "I can't remember the last time they're Detroit," said Councilman most valuable player. there was a ticker-tape parade," said Nicholas Hood. "I don't think all of you realize Pat Louttit, 31, who stood along the 
Sunday night's mayhem, following what a great team you have," Tigers route with her husband, Doug, 31, the Tigers' victory over the San Manager Sparky Anderson said. and their 2-year-old son, Brett. Diego Padres in Game 5 of the Se­"They not only won this year, they "It will probably be another 20 ries, left one man dead, sent at least will win again in 1985." years before it happens again, so we 80 people to hospital emergency Trammell, however, wasn't think­brought the little one along," she rooms and led to 34 arrests. ing that far ahead. said. 
But Police Chief William Hart said "I'm not thinking about '85 yet," Shortly after the parade, Gibson the behavior of yesterday's crowd he told the crowd. "I'd just like to sit and teammate Dave Rozema was no different from that of the back and celebrate. We've earned escaped injury when Gibson's Jeep crowd on Sunday night. it." overturned on a downtown street 
"The majority of the crowd the Tigers owner and Domino's Pizza after another car turned in front ofit, other night was well-behaved," he founder Tom Monaghan called the police Sgt. Daniel Carr said. said. show of support "incredible, in­"The two ballplayers and some Thousands of fans, young and old credible." citizens righted the Jeep and they went on their way," Carr said. 

Basketball tickets 
Applications for student bas­are distributed. 

Please 
ketball tickets will be mailed to Ticket distribution is as fol­each student's local address for lows. 
support
delivery on Monday, Oct. 29. •Seniors -Monday, Nov. 5 Those students who have not •Juniors and students in their received an application by ninth semester or higher · Tues­
AMERICAN 
Thursday, Nov. 1, should go to day, Nov. 6 the ticket office in the ACC. •Sophomores, graduate and law 

CANCER 

Students are asked not to mail students-Wednesday, Nov. 7 their application to the ticket of­•Freshmen-Thursday, Nov. 8 

SOCIETY® 
fice. Applications and payment Tickets will be distributed will be collected when tickets from 3-8 p.m. each day. 




I 
,I 
j 
~ 
l 
j j 
l 
Th~ Obscrv~r/Thom Bradl~y
New to Mary Di 

•
A
Notre Dame women s tJasketba/1 coacb Mary DtStanislao returnsfor berfiftb season under tbe Golden Dome, bringingfive newfreshmen witb ber. In tbe bottom row (left to right) areKathy Brommeland, Betb Morrison and Sandy Botham. In the top row (left to right) are Kathy Barron and Mary Gavin. The Irish u:amen open their season Nov. 24 at Tennessee. 
sidered in deciding which sports are awarded scholarships.



Wolf 
What remains for the soccer team now is to prove itself worthy of the 
continuedfrom page 16 
administration's backing. Yeagley 
points out tlritt his team was able to team, the one thing that is necessary get an NCAA bid in 1974 when he to build a national contender is "a had only two scholarships at his dis­base of administrative support and posal. Ifthe Irish could get a spot in commitment." While Yeagley the NCAA Tournament, that cer­declined to elaborate on this com­tainly would help the team's image ment, he did note, "I don't know of in the eyes of recruits and the ath­any programs in the country that are letic department. national contenders at this time that Receiving an invitation to this don't have scholarships." year's tournament is unlikely, but it 
The administration at Notre is not impossible for Notre Dame to Dame, however, is not ready to begin to turn its program around, make such a commitment to soccer even before it has scholarships to at­in the near future. Athletic Director tract new talent. No team is un­Gene Corrigan said that he does not beatable, and perhaps the Irish can anticipate giving soccer scholar­begin to assert themselves against ships for at least three years, al­the "invincible" opponents such as though he said every Notre Dame today's, Akron. team competes on an equal basis for The time has come for Notre available funds. Still, Corrigan Dame soccer to prove what it can refused to say what criteria are con-be. 





BILLY S<SlUIEI::< 
with special guest 
RATT 
Tuesday, November 6 7:30p.m. NOTRE DAME A.C. C. 
All SEATS RESERVED Sl2'" and Sll'" 
TICkETS AVAilABlE AT THE A C C BOX OFFICE. SEAQS. QOBERTSONS ElKHAQT TRUTH. J R ·s MUSIC SHOP. ST JOSEPH'S BANK (MAIN OFFICE). WORLD QECORD (GOSHEN). MUSIC MAGIC !BENTON HARBOQ). AND KARMA RECOQOS (FT WAYNE) 

Off 

Getting through college 
isn't easy. But help is on 
the way. Because 
Domino's Pizza is offenng 
you financial assistance on 
your next pizza. The Pizza 
made with 100% natural 
cheeses and fresh, not 
frozen toppings. And we'll 
deliver it. custom-made, to 
your door in 30 minutes or 
less. GUARANTEED. Call 
Domino's Pizza and help 
yourself to the best tasting 
pizza around. 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERSTM FREE. 
® 

. . . ~--. .. --I
rr-------------------------------~ 
: . IQIMII(Q~ nrBA ... I 
I I I I 
$2.00 off anyI 16"-2item pizza. Offer good at
I 
listed locations.

I 
Expires in oneI week. 
One coupon

I 
per PIZZa.

I I I I 
I I I I 

Fast, Free DeliveryTM 
I

Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. I South Bend 
I

Phone. 277-2151 
JTC NA 102 2650 
I 

c 1 984 Dommo s P1zza Inc 
I I I I I 

Limited delivery area. Our drivers carry less than $20.00 · 1984 Dominos P1ua. In<; 
~----~-------------------------~ 

Saint Mary's sweeps 




Manchester in tennis 
By PAM CUSICK Bolze at No. 5 before finally winning, Sports Writer 6-4, 3-6, 6-1. Freshman Kate McDevitt surprised Manchester's 
The Saint Mary's tennis team Christy Crogan, 6-2, 6-1, at No. 6 to finished its fall dual-meet season last compiete the Saint Mary's sweep in night in winning style by sweeping singles. Manchester College, 9-0. The win in­creased the Belles' record to 12-4-1 Continuing the Belles' un­as they head into the NAIA state touchable performance, the doubles meet this weekend at Anderson, Ind. teams shut out Manchester, winning 
In singles competition, senior all three matches. The No. 1 team of Debbie Laverie led Saint Mary's from Laverie and Hall overcame her No. 1 singles spot, nearly shut­Kruetzman and Ginzer, 6-2, 6-3. ting out Kathy Kruetzman of Zern and Craig beat Strycher and Manchester, 6-0, 6-1. Mary Carol Clark at No. 2 doubles, 6-2, 6-4, as Hall imitated Laverie's performance McDevitt and Heller needed three by dominating Theresa Ginzer, 6-0, sets to defeat Bolze and Crogan, 6-2, 6-1, at No. 2 singles, while Caroline 4-6, 7-5, at No.3. Zern did much the same at No. 3 "We hope to be able to do well against janice Strycher, also winning again at the NAJA state meet", said 6-0,6-1. Saint Mary's coach John Killeen. 
Freshman Susie Craig continued lbe Belles have tlnished first each the pace in singles play, easily put­ofthe last two years at the state meet ting away Denise Clark at No. 4, 6-1, and hope to do the same Friday and 6-0. Kim Kaegi struggled with Jill Saturday in Anderson. 
r-----·---------,--:=-----.....--1 
· Perfect For Tarlgaters • PARTY SUBs· I 
3 Meats, 2 Cheeses &Choice of Toppings
' ~ 
. ~ 
3 feet serves 20·25 ... $35.00 
r 
4 feet serves 25·30 ... $43.00 ', 5 feet serves 30·35 ... $52.00 
6 

feet serves 35-40 ... ~60.00 

ALSO: MEAT TRAYS_ CHEESE TRAYS & SALADS the 

DELI 
1753 E. 12th st. Mishawaka, IN 
.( 
Order Party Subs Two Days in Advance Free Delivery on Orders Over $50 Jeff Etoll, owner, N D '78 
L-----------~~~~~~!-----------J 
Akron 
continuedfrom page 16 
how they beat people. Defense is the 
name of the game." 
The Zips' defense is anchored by 
goalk~eper Sean Burke, who has re­
corded seven shutouts and has a 
goals-against-average of 0.69 this 
fall. Burke relies on sweeper Shaun 
Pendleton for assistance on the back 
line. 
Notre Dame will not shy away from Akron's formidable defense, Grace said. Rather, the Irish will be aggressive on offense. 
"We're not going to sit back," Grace explains. "We're going to take an approach just like we have every game. We're going to go out and at­tack and score and try to do what we can." 
Leading the Irish attack will be a 
c:trong forward line, which has 
several players who have come 
througb with goals in big games for 
the Irish this season. 
Most notably, senior tri-captain Rich Herdegen has scored against each of Notre Dame's toughest op­ponents: Indiana, St. Louis, Michigan State and Marquette. Herdegen has 11 goals this season and 23 points. 
Just ahead of Herdegen on the Irish scoring list is sophomore Pat Szanto, who has 1 0 goals and 26 points this season. Junior striker Dave Miles is third in scoring for the team with 16 points, and freshman 
John Fossella has 10. 
The Irish will field their own strong defense this afternoon to keep the Zips away from the goal. Junior Mark Steranka is expected to start in the net. Steranka has compiled a 9-2-2 record this year with three shutouts and a goals­against-average of 1.08. 
The Observer 

Wednesday, October 17, 1984 -page 12 
Rejects women judges 



Hagler threatens not to fight 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -If three women are appointed to judge the Marvelous Marvin Hagler-Mustafa Hamsho mid­dleweight title match Friday night, "There will be no fight," Pat Petronelli, Hagler's co-manager said yesterday. 
"The champ doesn't want it," said Petronelli. "We don't want it." 
ChairmanJohn Branca ofthe New York State Athletic Commission said it was a possibility that Carol Castel­lano and Eva Shain of New York and Carol Polis of Philadelphia could be appointed to judge the scheduled 15-round fight Friday night at Madison Square Garden. 
It also is possible that only one or two of the three will be named as judges, but that at least one will be appointed, said Branca. He said one or two of the women could be ap­pointed to judge the Mike McCallum-Sean Mannion bout for the vacant WBA junior mid­dleweight title, which is on the same card. 
The three women are certified by the World Boxing Association and all have worked championship fights. 
"I think they're very qualified," said Branca. 
"We're not buying that," Petronelli said. "This is a man's sport. This is a man's game. The top bouts should be judged by men." 
"Whoever he (Branca) appoints, I will respect their judgment," Hamsho said in a statement issued in the challenger's name by Irving Rudd, publicist for Bob Arum's Top Rank, Inc., the promoter of the fight. 

TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 

Other defenders the Irish will rely on today are senior tri-captain Dominick Driano at sweeper and Jock Mutschler and Steve Lowney at the wingbacks. At midfield, Chris Telk, Stuart MacDonald, Martin Man­gialardi, Eric Evans and Tom Daley should share most of the playing time. 
Notre Dame has enough talent to give Akron an excellent game if it plays as well as it is able. '!be only question in Grace's mind is whether his players finally will show their true potential by overcoming some attitude problems. He says perhaps now that the pressure ofgetting into the NCAA Tournament is gone, the team will play better. 
"We're going into Akron with nothing to lose and a lot of respec­tability to gain in the game," Grace says. "We're going to give them a heck of a game. We're going to play some ball." 
The time has come, according to Grace, for the Irish to prove that they can, indeed, play competively with the best t~ams in collegiate soc­cer. If the fans come out for this im­portant matchup, as the Irish coach hopes they will, Notre Dame will have a perfect opportunity to defeat Akron for the first time in the history of this series. 
ISAA Mideast Soccer 
The top ten college soccer trams In the lntrrcol· lrgiatr Soccer AssoCiation of Ameri<:a Mideast Region, with this ~ason's records through last Sunday and total poinL•. PoinL• based on 10-9-8-7 etc. Notre Dame op· ponrnts are ttaltclzed. 
I. Indian.. 13·0·1 70 2. AAiron 7-2·3 60 
3. Cleveland State 9-3·1 52 4. Evansville 11·3·0 50 
5. Marqrutte 9·2·2 48 6. Mtdngan State 8-3·1 35 
7. Notre Dame 8-3-2 27 8. Miami, Ohio 7-1·2 22 
"I think Hagler is plain worried, 
and sex should have no place in the 
appointment of judges." 
Branca said Petronelli and his brother, Goody, co-manager and Hagler's train~r. and Hamsho's manager AI Certo will have a say in the naming of the judges and non­scoring referee at the rules meeting tomorrow. The officials will be ap­pointed at that time. 
Alberto Alomane of Panama, th~ WBA's international coordinator, will attend the rules meeting and will serve as WBA supervisor for the fight. 
The World Boxing Council, which recognized Hagler as cham­pion and joins the WBA in ranking Hamsho the No. I contender, will send observers to the fight. 
Jose Sulaiman, president of the WBC, has said his organization will not sanction the bout as a champion­ship match if it is scheduled for 15 rounds. The WBC has a 12-round limit for title bouts. 
It is possible the WBC, meeting in convention at Montreal from today to Saturday, will withdraw title recognition from Hagler if he goes through with the fight under the 15­round limit, which is recognized by theWBA. 
"The contract calls for 15 rounds," said Arum. 
There is a New York State Athletic Commission rule stating all title fights must be for 15 rounds. Marvin Kohn, a deputy commissioner, ex· plained that if the promoter and all parties concerned ask for a 12-round limit, the commission might grant permission. It has been done twice in the past for WBC title bouts. 

Should the WBC move to strip Hagler of title recognition, the ac­tion is not expected to take place or be announced before Saturday. 

Unitedway 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
• LJnltedway 


SeniorClass Cocktail Party 
Thursday, October 18 9pm -1om ACC Monogram Room $3.00 admission at the door Semi-formal Attire 
DJ, Dancing, Food, 9-llpmjree drinks 
21 ID Required 


Challenging opportunities are offered in the 
following areas of business management: 
• 
Finance 

• 
Contract Administration 

• 
Retail Merchandising 

• 
Food Service 

• 
Inventory Analysis and Purchasing 

• 
Transportation and Distribution 

• 
Fuel Planning and Analysis 

• 
Computer Systems 

• 
Operations Analysis 


Visit with representatives of the O.S. Navy Supply Corps to learn how your degree in accounting, economics, business administra­tion, computer science, or engineering can prepare you for an exciting business career. 
Presentation:  November 12  
O'Shaughnessy Hall  
Room 104  
7:00p.m.  
Interviews:  November 13  
Memorial Library  



The Observer 
Wednesday, October 17, 1984-page 13 

Field hockey team wins two, loses one 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
lbe Notre Dame field hockey team has gone 2-1 in its most recent 
outings, upping its record to 6-4-1 in the process. In the Lake Forest 
Invitational last Saturday, the Irish beat Iowa Wesleyan and Lake For­
est, 6-0 and 4-1, respectively. 
On Monday the Irish did not fare as well, losing 2-1 to Ball State in 
Muncie, Ind. 
Notre Dame effectively dominated Iowa Wesleyan. As the Irish 
offense was racking up six goals, the defense was allowing only four 
Iowa Wesleyan shots on goal. 
"We were simply a more talented team," said Notre Dame coach 
Jill Lindenfeld of the blowout. "We had excellent execution and 
played very well as a team." 
Sophomore Corinne DiGiacomo and freshman Benet DeBerry each 
scored two goals for the Irish against Iowa Wesleyan, while Regina 
Degan and Megan McGlinn notched one goal apiece. 
In its second game on Saturday, Notre Dame defeated Lake Forest 
with a three-goal outburst within a 10-minute span in the second 
half. The two teams were deadlocked at one midway through the 
second half when perhaps the most important play of the game oc­
curred. 
Lake Forest scored an apparent goal which would have put it 
ahead, 2-1, with only a quarter of the game remaining. That goal, 
however, was disallowed because ofan offside call. Soon after, Notre 
Dame exploded for its decisive barrage. 
The Irish recorded 24 shots on goal in the game. Melissa Summer 
scored two goals as juniors Beth Bisignano and Christina Weinmann 
each added one to the Notre Dame cause. 
Despite the fact that Lake Forest played a very physical game, the 
Irish were able to maintain their poise and play their game, some­
thing which made Lindenfeld happy. 
''I'm very pleased with the way we won," said the Irish coach. "We did not succumb to their tactics. Instead, we maintained our com­posure and played our game." 
Junior goaltender Patti Gallagher recorded 16 saves in going the distance for Notre Dame. 
Things did not go as well on Monday, as Ball State topped the Irish by a 2-1 margin. Notre Dame got off to an early 1-0 lead when DiGiacomo scored less than I 5 minutes into the game. 
After that, however, Ball State took control of the game. The Car­dinal defense held the Irish to only five shots on goal from then on. Meanwhile, the Ball State offense was registering 11 shots and two goals against Gallagher. 
"Ball State is a very strong team," remarked Lindenfeld. "They denied us the ball, hence allowing us very few shots on goal. Their team deserves a lot ofcredit." 
Notre Dame travels to Ann Arbor, Mich., today for a 4 p.m. game with the University of Michigan. 




Jrefatuf 


Information Meeting TONIGHT 6:30p.m. 
232 Moreau Hall SMC 
Applications Distributed 


Tht' Obst"rvt"r/Chailanya Panchal

The Notre Damefield hockey team travels toAnn Arbor, Mich., today to face the University of Mic­weekend. Kevin Herbertdetails that weekend tn his higan. The Irish are coming off a successful 2-1 story at left. 
Returns after two years 
Mauch named new Angels manager 
A.ssoclated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Gene Mauch, who resigned as the manager of the California Angels two years ago, will return to the position in 1985, the American League team announced at a news conference yesterday. 
Mauch quit shortly after the An­gels lost the AL Championship Series to the Milwaukee Brewers in 1982. California won the first two games of the series but lost the next three. 
John McNamara, hired to replace Mauch, announced last week that he would not return as the Angels' manager next year. McNamara is considered the top candidate for the vacant Boston Red Sox managing po­sition. 
Mauch, who turns 59 next month, has been the Angels' director of player personnel since Sept. 17, 1983. He has been a big-league manager for 22 years and ranks among the top 1 0 skippers in major league history in years of service, total games and victories. 
Mauch was first appointed as the Angels' manager on May 28, 1981, to succeedJim Fregosi. California had a 22-25 record when Mauch took over and finished the strike­interrupted campaign with a 51-59 mark. 
In 1982, the Angels won their second-ever AL West title with a 93­69 record, best in their 24-year his­tory, before losing to the Brewers in the playoffs. 
Under McNamara, the Angels 



The Irish Gardens 
your Screw your B.oomma~e Headquarters /Y-...., h Stay on campus and i~l save S$$by letting us t 1. take care of yourflower needs 


Dial M-U-M-5 (6867) to place an order 
Located off the Nazz in the basemt-nt of Lafortune 
Hours: 12:30-5:30 


SENIORS 
EXPERIENCE LATIN AMERICA WITH HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE 
A two-year post-graduate commitment 
to living a simple lifestyle, teaching, 
serving and sharing in community. 
For more information contact:  
John Fitzpatrick  
Mary Ann Roemer  Associates Office: 239-5521  
Center for Social Concerns: 239-7949  239 Cavanaugh: 239-6522  

were 70-92 in 1983 and 81-81 this season. They tied for fifth place in the division with Minnesota last year and tied for second with the Twins this year. 

Support March of Dimes 

§Thw ~]p)~lftt~ 
UJmillnmlifc~<dl SJ lllThcco 
Skydiving instruction and Paraplane Flight instruction 
••, ••, 15.......... 219-SH-1661 .._ 
LECTURE SERIES 
What is Art? 
This series ofThursday night talks will examine three ofthe major movements in twentieth century art. Each lecture will cover the basics ofthe movement discussed and will be structured to appeal to a wide audience. 
ABSTRACTION October 18, 1984 Stephen B. Spiro 7:30pm 
EXPRESSIONISM November 1, 1984 Professor Robert Leader 7:30pm 
There will be a $2. 00 chargefor  Annenberg Auditorium  
non-members and $J.(){Jfor  The Snite Museum of Art  
Friends and students.  University of Notre Dame  


~ ---..
I)" ­
n 
) l 
\' The Observer Wednesday, October 17, 1984-page 14
\\ 
\ 
l. 
) I 
1 
i 
1 
) 
'.I . ~ )\. I \ 
~­
\ 
) \ 
~ 
) 
\ 
\ ; 
~ ; 
' 
~ 
1 ~ 
\. 
' 
~~
I.,
\: 
( ' 
\~ 'I 
" 
~~ ~~ 
) 
) 
~ 
1 
~i ~ 
I~ 
1 
\\ 
~· .­
\ '~ \
\'
:\ 
) 
\1
' 
~ 
~ 
~­·~ 
\ ( 
\ 
\· 
~· 
''
\-'
\•\ 
\~ 
~~ 
)\ 
~ 
\ 
I ( \ ' 
f, 
~ 
~­

\ 
~ 
r 



Dillon wins in final seconds as playoffs near 
By BRIAN McCARTIIY exciting game of the year. Sports Writer Dillon quarterback Brendan Coughlan started the scoring with a Dillon, still reeling from last 1 0-yard touchdown run off the op­
week's upset loss to Keenan, tion. However, the emotional Off­
overcame a two-point deficit in the Campus squad fought back with a 
last 50 seconds to down Off­third quarter score on a one-yard 
Campus, 10-9, in interhall football plunge by Joe Jacoby on fourth 
action last weekend. Dan Thompson down. Good catches by Mike Doren­
kicked a 20-yard field goal with busch and Matt Cullinan set up the 
three seconds remaining to lift Dil­touchdown. Dillon still clung to a 
lon to victory in perhaps the most one-point advantage after Scotty 



Irish volleyball team travels to Purdue 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team has revenge on its mind tonight as it travels to West Lafayette, Ind., to take on the Boiler­makers of Purdue University. 
The Boilers embarrassed the Irish in the season opener for both teams by scores of 15-12, 1 S-6, 1 5-8. Since then, Notre Dame has played .500 volleyball, and enters tonight's game with a 7-8 record overall. 
A tough loss last week to North Star Conference rival Loyola dropped the team's conference record to 3-1, and greatly hurt its chances for the conference championship. But the Irish need to bounce back this week against the Boilers. 
"It's up to the girls now to decide whether they want to do it and get ready for Purdue," says Notre Dame head coach Art Lambert. "Purdue is a top-ranked team and a hard team to prepare for because they have a lot of different looks. They are a very tall team, but they do lack quickness." 
The Irish did not exploit that weakness of Purdue in their first meeting, and the Boilers were able to use their height at the net to dominate the match. This time around, the Irish will have to make the Boilers move around the court a little faster. 
"We need to maintain a consistent level instead of fluctuating," says Assistant Coach Renee DeGraff. "We need to gain consistency as a team and get unified." 
If Notre Dame can accomplish this, its worst battle is over. Once the Irish stop beating themselves with inconsistency, they will be ready to beat Purdue and the remaining teams on the schedule. 
................................................................................................ 
""' 
ROB'O! .....__'I.. / 'f]--. I 
I The Big FGD~ ~~ 
i "21" 
Is Here L~
I 
~~~c~
I 
I 
HAPPYBIRTHDAY 
October18 
I : Love,
I
: MomandDad 
.......................................................................................... 


50% Off Frames 
Ct-M 8RJ •tyle fr--entire fr-Mleetlon oncluding Halston. P1e"e Cardin and Yves St. Laurent Then take 50% off the regular price. Offer good wilt1 thiS coupon and studenlllaculty odenl!fication when ordering a complete pa1r of prescnptJon glasses only llrok811 ....... r..,a.c.d M ~•t liD~· for -J-· No other doscounts apply 
South Bend: Scottsdale Mall 291-2222 Elkhart: Concord Moll875-7472 
EB 
Offlcn throulhout Indiana Open All Day Saturday and Sunday Moll Hours PROFESSIONAL EYE EXAMINATION AVAILABLE ,....,. BY OPTOMETRIST WITH OFFICE ON PREMISES ~ 
L--------------~-~ 
Bentivenga blocked 0-C's extra point attempt. 
Following an 0-C miss of a long field goal try, Dillon had the ball on its own 20-yard line with less than five minutes remaining in the game. But on its first play, Dillon fumbled and 0-C recovered. 
After earning a first-and-goal on the five-yard line, 0-C was unable to reach the end zone. On fourth down it called on Kevin Hayes to try an 18· yard field goal with 50 seconds to play. Hayes' boot split the uprights and Dillon appeared ready to be saddled with its second consecutive loss. 
1be Dillon players obviously thought otherwise. On the first play Coughlan dropped back and heaved a long pass that split end Hugh Bres­lian caught as he fell to the ground on 0-C's 30-yard line. Time was still ticking down on Dillon, but the next play was a repeat of the last as Coughlan and Breslian hooked up again to give Dillon the ball on 0-C's three-yard line. 
Two plays later Thompson came on to complete the comeback and give Dillon its third victory in four games. Despite its Herculean efforts, 0-C gets its second loss against one victory and a tie. 
In a battle for the second playoff spot in the Parseghian division, Mor­rissey upset Flanner, 13-7. Flanner, which many people tabbed as the team to beat this year, fell behind 13­0, before starting a late scoring drive, which was capped by a Tim Arnold one-yard touchdown plunge, brought it within six. 
Oct 17 
w 
Oct 18 
T 

However it was too little too late as Morrissey hung on to earn a playoffspot for the first time in many years. Morrissey's scores came on a 1 S-yard scamper by quarterback Geoff Henry and a seven-yard inter­ception return by noseguard Rich Toomey. Morrissey's record jumps to 3-l, while Flanner slides to 2-2. 
In the third Parseghian game, Scott Inglis hauled in a 30-yard pass from John Olson as Grace topped Keenan, 7-6, for its first victory of the year.Jim Book provided the win­ning margin by booting the extra point. Grace goes to 1-3 as Keenan falls to 1-2-1. 
Stanford finished its Leahy divi­sion schedule undefeated as it trounced winless Cavanaugh, 19-0. Tony Dawson scored on a three­yard run in the first quarter and quarterback Brent Basham tossed a 25-yard pass to Brian Steber for a second touchdown. Jim Clevenger finished the scoring with a fourth quarter four-yard run. 
Stanford ends the regular season 3-0-1 and Cavanaugh drops to 0-3. 
Alumni's Steve Deem snagged a 24-yard strike from quarterback Ken Sherman to make for a 7-0 victory over Holy Cross. Alumni now has a 1-1-1 slateasHolyCrossgoesto 1-2. 
In the Rockne division, Sorin remained unbeaten, untied and un­scored upon as it upended Pangborn, 6-0. Sean Garret contin­ued to run over opponents as he gave Sorin its lone score, a 1 0-yard run following a long punt return. 
Sorin is 3-0 while Pangborn finishes its year at 0-3-1. 
Howard stayed in contention for the Rockne title as it bested St. Ed's, 10-0. Howard's Tim Buckley blocked a St. Ed's punt and Jim Pastore grabbed the ball and rambled 1; yards for the score. joe Riehl added a 30-yard field goal to wrap up the win. 
Howard ups its record to 2-0-1 as St. Ed's drops to 1-2. 
The playoff picture is becoming clearer as five teams are already guaranteed spots in post-season play. Sorin clashes with Howard to­morrow night at 9:00 for the Rockne division crown. Regardless of the outcome, both teams will make the playoffs. 
The other Rockne game features St. Ed's and Carroll at 8:00, also to­
·I 
morrow night. ;! 
~ 
,•
With a victory over Holy Cross tonight at 10:00, Zahm would earn a playoff spot. However, should Zahm lose and Alumni defeat Cavanaugh tomorrow night at 10:00, then Alumni gets the playoff spot. But if Alumni loses also, then Holy Cross sneaks into the playoffs. If either or both of the games end in a tie, Zahm will enter the playoffs. 
Dillon can sew up its third con­secutive Parseghian division crown with a victory over Grace tonight at 
7:00. H Dillon loses and Morrissey beats Off-Campus tonight at 9:00, then Morrissey wins the division. 
Again, regardless of the final scores, both Dillon and Morrissey will be in the playoffs. 
At 8:00 tonight, Keenan plays Flanner as both squads look to end their seasons on an up note. 





BUD PROMO 
bud 25 ~ beers 

DJ -Kevin Bolin 
KIDS NiGhT OWT root beers $1.05 imports $1.00 
DJ -Mike Shriver 




Going South for break?!? 
Oct 19 

SOUTHERN COMFORT NIGHT 
F 
Southern Comfort drinks $1.30 
OJ -Jerry Whooley 
LETS GET SOUTH CAROLINA
Oct20 

UNCOMFORTABLE 
s 
OPENat9am 
BRATS & DOGS on thefire 
N\U?\G... 



Wednesday, October 1 7, 1984 -page 15 
Doonesbury 
Mil<£, t4/HY 15 THtY'Re A/..50 TRYING 7D C()(JJTCR A 
KEA6AN ti/EN NW NONPARTISAN STlJPY 771AT5 FOUN{) THAT 8LACK'5 CF.4UCLA55t5 AR£ PRAMATICAUY 11./0RS£ OFFAS .4 R£5UlTtrR£.4GAN rotiCI&S. 
\ 

Bloom County 
HIIVE PI?Of'PW 1He/R ~t1NCJ 1HflT JeANe KIRKPATRICK 8€ NfJMt;P 6NAHJJ P008AH Of TIE WOr<.Ul! /lON'T 
Af'fliCK/ 1HCI'KE CfJM!NG M! Be CIJO(.. .' 
/ 


Psychochicken Octavio 


The Daily Cross"'ord 
ACROSS  33 Uraeus  61 Habituate  21 Germ  
1 Involuntary  36 "-are called  62 Laced  22 NY stadium  
movement  but few ... "  63 Took a bus  23 Imprint  
6 Breathing  37 Careless  64 Populace of  24 Locating  
sound  38 Theater group  old Gr.  device  
10 Fellow  39 Be meddle·  25 Physiological  
14 Hairy  some  DOWN  problem  
15 Author Haley  40 Despot  1 Resort  29 Essay  
16 Circle of light  42 Call forth  2 Sesame  30 Gender  
17 Tex. shrine  44 Apteryx  3 Wing  
18 Spilled liquid  45 Dismiss from  4 Incline  32 Damage  
19 Culture medium  service  5 Bother  33 Dido  
20 Take risks  46 Retinue  6 Bacon portion  34 Ranch animal  
23 Sp. title  48 Beat  7 Apportion  35 Fencing term  
26 Source of  49 Yelp  37 Medieval song  
sugar  50 Writer perhaps  38 Cigarette  
27 Temerity  53 Estrada of TV  8 Author Uris  residue  
28 Talebearer  54 Diplomat's  9 Awaits  40 Small monkey  
30 Let it stand  forte  10 Swiss dwelling  41 Suffer from  
31 Loved  55 Gossip  11 The -, Neth.  hot weather  
32 Flat-topped  59 Not on time  12 Partner of alas  42 Animal feed  
hill  60 Pernicious  13 "-Chop Hill"  43 Inaugurated  

Garry Trudeau 
7HA/SJU5TA  
"REA6AN:  R())GH ORAFT.  
HE'S NO  I t£1/WT TO PLAY  
RACIST"  ARIJUNOWITH IT  
\  SOMe MORe.  
\a~~~  

Berke Breathed 


Campus 
•4 
p.m. -Varsity Soccer, ND vs. Akron, Alumni Field. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Microbiology Seminar, "Genetics Analysis of Protein Export," Dr. Thomas Silhavy, Dept. of Molecular Biology, Princeton, Room 278 Galvin. . 

•6 
p.m. -General Meeting, ND/SMC Student for Mondale/Ferraro, Little Theatre, LaFortune. 

•6:
1 5 p.m. -Meeting, Circle K, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Circle K. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Toastmasters Internadonal, Organization to Improve Public Speaking, Room 223 Hayes Healy, Free. 

• 
7 p.m. -Wednesday NightFUm Series, "Scarlet Street," O'Shaughnessy Loft. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m. -FUm, "Patton," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, S1. 

•
7 -9 p.m. -Recepdon, For Those Interviewing With Coopers & Lybrand, Senior Bar, Sponsored by Coopers and Lybrand, Casual Attire. 

•8 
p.m. -Meeting, Heifer Project International, Fall Break Trip, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored 





1111111111111111111 Grand Opening 11111111111111111111 

N.D. T·Shirt Shop 
in southeast corner ofLaFortune BASEMENT. 
Open: Monday and Wednesday 3:00-5:00 Tuesday, Thursday and Friday 1:00-3:00 
Ca11239-5157 for more info. on ourrock bottom prices 
-custom designed within one weelc 
Checkout 

·group discounts 
our stock ofcolors and sizes. 
Wednesday, October 17, 1984 -page 16 
Irish face 
Zips today 
on Alumni 
ByPHILWOLF 
AsststantSports Editor 
. It is the biggest home game of the Notre Dame soccer team's season. But it could have been even bigger. 
The Irish will play host to the Ak­ron Zips this afternoon on Alumni Field at 4:00. The game against the Zips, who are ranked second in the Mideast region and 19th nationally, is very important for Notre Dame. A victory today would have im­measureable value in terms of na­tional respectabilty and recognition for recruiting. 
The Irish were hoping last week that this game would mean even more. Last week, Notre Dame was facing games with the third-and fourth-ranked teams in the region (Akron and Marquette, respectively), and a couple of vic­tories could have clinched a berth in the NCAA Tournament for Notre Dame. 
On Sunday, however, the Irish lost at Marquette. Now Akron has taken the number-two spot in the rankings because Evansville, previously ranked second, lost two games over the weekend. The top ranking in the region belongs to two-time defend­ing national champion Indiana, but the fight for the next two spots and invitations to the NCAA Tourna­ment is still on. Still, Notre Dame is pretty much out ofthe fight. 
-But while a victory over Akron probably will do nothing to aid the Irish in getting an invitation to postseason play, today's contest is valuable for Notre Dame. 
"A win over Akron means respec­tability in the Mideast," Notre Dame head coach Dennis Grace says. "We can be the team that beat the team that went to the tournament. It will be very important for recruiting. Letting everybody know that we can compete at that level will be impor­tant." 
Grace said he believes the Irish are capable of competing on a level with the national powers, but so far this season they have not clearly shown an ability to do so. They have lost to top-ranked Indiana, number­eight St. Louis and Marquette, in ad­dition to tying Michigan State. 
The problem all season for Notre Dame, according to Grace, has been a lack of intensity on the part of some of the team's members. This lack ofintensity has manifested itself in the team's inabilty to finish off its weaker opponents or play with con­fidence against the stronger teams. 
Today, the Irish must overcome both their intensity problem and the problems that Akron's defense will cause. 
"Akron is noted for its defense," Grace says. "They wear you down, then they score one or two. That's 
see AKRON, page 12 




Soccer team must prove itself 

( . 
"'.f,
, 
.. 
1~. 

The Notre Dame soccer team demonstrated last weekend what it means to come close without get­ting the cigar. 
The Irish seemingly had an opportunity to make it into the NCAA Tournament for the first time in the history oftheir soccer program. A loss to Marquette, however, ended any hopes they may have enter­tained ofsuch postseason play. 
This season Notre Dame has compiled a 10-3-2 record, and that really is not very surprising when one looks at the teams on the schedule. The Irish have beaten obviously weaker teams 10 times this season, and they have lost to three teams which were much more talented than they are. They tied Michigan State, a team which probably has exactly the same level oftalent as Notre Dame. The only real blemish on the record is a scoreless tie with Loyola ofChicago. 
To anyone who has followed Notre Dame soccer over the yearsrthis season's results do not seem ex­trordinary at all. Every season since the team was formed, the Irish have finished with a winning record, and every season the composition of that record is the same: one or two losses to weaker teams and losses to all of the big-name teams on the schedule, except maybe for an occasional upset by the Irish. 
The question which needs to be answered now is, "Why can't Notre Dame win the big games?" 
The answer to that question is obvious, although the solution to the problem is rather complex. The answer is that Notre Dame is not ready to compete regularly on a level with the national contenders. 
The soccer program that former coach Rich Hunter nursed from its infancy has gone as far as it can go without some major changes being made. One of those changes, which Hunter himself recognized, was to find a coach who is able to donate all of his time and energy to improving the team. That change was made this year when Dennis Grace took over as head coach. 
One of the things Grace has done is to begin to upgrade the schedule that Notre Dame will play next season. Gone are many of the "pushovers," and 

Phil Wolf 
Assistant Sports Editor 

in their places have popped up some of the biggest names in college soccer. 
Upgrading the schedule is just the first step, however. IfNotre Dame were to field the same sort ofteam as it has for the past several years against a lot of powerful competition, the Irish would be shell· shocked week after week. The answer to this di· lemma is improving the quality of players on the team. 
This year's Irish squad has several very talented players, but it lacks the depth necessary for a good team. Even the best players cannot always play an entire game against good competition, and a team is in trouble ifthe quality ofplay cannot be maintained with the backups in the game. Notre Dame has expe­rienced exactly this type ofinconsistent play against such teams as Indiana and Michigan State this year. 
The next step for the Irish is recruiting a good crop of freshmen to fill the starting roles as well as the spots on the bench. Grace says he is excited about the prospect of recruiting for Notre Dame, "a product" which will be easy to sell, he says. With an impressive schedule to wave in front of recruits, his job should be even easier. Only time will tell just how well Grace will be able to play the recruiting game. 
The next step in establishing a national contender is also the touchiest subject to discuss. For years Notre Dame's soccer program has been operating without scholarships, and for years the Irish have lost to the teams that do have scholarships to offer their players. The correlation, I think, is obvious. 
According toJerry Yeagley, head coach ofIndiana University's two-time national championship soccer 
see WOLF, page 11 



Like a fighter, Faust is on ropes 
c?;~~

Chuck Freeby 
'~· 
Sports Writer 

Irish Item~· 4~;£~~£. 

Hello again. everybody! 
If this football season were a boxing match, Notre Dame coach Gerry Faust would be one or two punches away from having the referee stop the contest. There is no doubt Faust is a fighter and a competitor. However, his legs are wobbly and his punches are not carrying much power. His back is on the ropes, and the people in the northwest corner ofthat fabled ring known as Notre Dame Stadium are ready to throw in the towel. 
To his credit, Faust is a battler and an optimist. He .will not give up, and he will not give in to criticism. He has not given up on this year's team and has all the confidence in the world in his players. He, his staffand his team certainly cannot be accused ofgiving anything less than 100 percent during the painful ordeal of the last few weeks. However, team unity does not appease the howlingfans on Saturday. 
In his demise, it seems as though Faust has been continually jabbed byproblems he has been unable to handle. One ofthose is the offense, which has had all the firepower of a squirt gun in recent weeks. Notre Dame has scored only three touchdowns ill the last three weeks and has scored only six points in the second halves of those three games. 
Of course, the largest share of the criticism given to the offense has been directed towards the offensive line, which has been blamed for Notre Dame's lackluster rushing attack. Faust has said at least four times in post-game press conferences that the line has not come off the ball well enough. He said it after the Purdue game, and he said after the Air Force game. The frequency of this statement leads us to one oftwo conclusions: 
1) In recruiting big linemen, Notre Dame has sacrificed speed for strength, and the coaches now must decide to adapt theirplay selec­tion to this fact, or 2) The coaches have known about a problem for six weeks and have been unable to do anything about it. 
Hopefully, the second conclusion is not correct, because if it is, Notre Dame has big problems. In either case, some kind of change has to be made. It is no secret d1at a revolving door has been used to change coaches during Faust's tenure, but maybe it'_s time to change offensive philosophy. Slow players cannot be expected to run plays that require quickness, such as pitchouts and sweeps. So, it seems logical if you have strength instead of speed, you try to run over people more often than you run around them. 
The ineptitude on offense has caused the defense to look bad as well, which is Faust's second problem. Notre Dame's inability to move the ball allowed Air Force nearly 35 minutes of possession. That causes a lot of problems with fatigue for a defense, especially against a quick team. 
This is not to say, however, that the Irish defense has been immune from creating its own difficulties. The Irish held back the option about as well as a sieve holds back water, and Faust admitted as much after the game. To the credit of Air force, it blocked well and executed with precise timing. Nevertheless, the Irish contrib­uted to the cause with an inability to make enough adjustments to counter the Falcon attack. Knowing that this week's foe, South Carolina, also runs the option, Notre Dame had better make some changes quickly. 
Speaking of South· Carolina, don't expect the 11th-ranked Gamecocks to hold back any punches against the Irish. joe Mor­rison's club took some lumps from Notre Dame last fall in Columbia, but now the Gamecocks are in the catbird's seat. South Carolina enters the game with a 5-0 record, and it has done it in impressive style. The Gamecocks dumped Georgia earlier this year and last week they thrashed Pitt. 
The Gamecock offense relies heavily on the quarterbacking tan­dem of Allen Mitchell and Mike Hold, who threw for four touch­down passes against the Panthers. When they don't attack the Irish secondary, look for one ofCarolina's four fine running backs to carry the ball. Tailback Thomas Dendy is a dandy who goes well to the 
· outside, while bruising fullback Kent Hagood prefers to travel the inside route. Whether the Gamecocks come at the Irish from the inside or outside, Gerry Faust will have to try to come off the ropes and be ready. He has absorbed losses like a boxer takes punches. The first one is a shock, but the next few are a little easier to handle. After a while, though, those punches begin to add up and take their toll. Too many punches can be hazardous for a boxer. Too many losses can be disastrous to a coach. Faust hopes his Irish can keep South Carolina from delivering a right hook to his coaching career this Saturday. 
Pickofthe Week .. There's only one thing worse than midterm week, and that's finals week, ofcourse. Don't waste your time study­ing, though. After all, it's not going to do any good. Instead. give yourself a break today, and head on out to Alumni Field at 4 p.m. to watch the Irish soccer team battle the 13th-ranked Zips from Akron. 
The Irish are a bit demoralized after losing a possible NCAA Tournament bid at Marquettte over the weekend, but a victory over Akron would certainly be something to raise the spirits of Dennis Grace's l 0-3-2 squad. A lot offan support would certainly help, so in the words of NBC, let's all be there today. 




