r--------------
VOl. XIX, NO. S thl· imkpcndl·nt ~tudcnt ncw~papn 'l·n·ing notn dame and ~aint mary·~ FRIDAY, AUGUST 31, 1984 
Regina sophs -page 3 

Space shuttle Discovery crew finally launch maiden voyage 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -The space shuttle Discovery finally got off to a beautiful and flawless launch yesterday, and Its crew successfully , launched a communications satellite attached to the ~arne model rocket motor that sent two earlier satellites into useless orbits. 
These two fiascos have caused NASA's customers great concern, raised their insurance rates, and 


another clay in practice Wednesday as bepreparesfor a test flight in a training plane(upper left). Yesterday, however, be and his crew left the tes~plane behind as they (finally) lifted off in the space shuttle itself. Onlookers watch the ship take off on its maiden voyagefrom the Kennedy Space Center, Fla. 
Five join Board of Trustees 
By FRANK L~O 
Senlor StuffReporter 
Five candidates for the Notre Dame Board of Trustees have been approved for three-year terms by the University Fellows and Include three Notre Dame alumni, the holder of an honorary Notre Dame degree and a former trustee and fel­low ofthe University. 
The new trustees arc: 
• Thomas Coleman, a 1956 alumnus of Notre Dame and a senior partner of Adler, Coleman and Co. He Is a former member of the Board of Governo~s and the Board of Directors ofthe New York Stock Ex· change and serves on the Advisory Council for the College of Business Administration. He has frequently been honored for his service to the ArchdioceSe of New York. 
• 
Bernard Qerry) Hank, Jr., a 1951 graduate of Notre Dame and Chairman of the Board of the Montgomery Elevator Co. In Moline, Ill. He Is a member of the Advisory Council of the College of Engineer­ing. 

• 
Kathleen Sullivan, a 1978 graduate ofNotre Dame and an ass is­


tant professor of biology at the Uni­versity of Miami, Coral Gables, Fla. She received her doctorate in marine biology from the University of California at San Diego. Last year she was also elected to a three-year term on the University's National Alumni Board. 
• Frank Pasquerilla, a 1982 recipient of an honorary degree from Notre Dame and president and chairman of the board of Crown American Corporation in 
see TRUSTEE, page 3 

caused one satellite launch delay. That, plus three postponements of Discovery's first flight, put the shuttle's reputation as an orbital delivery system into question. 
Mission Control sent word of the flawless operation to the shuttle and astronaut Steve Hawley responded, "That's real good news, we're up here celebrating." 
The 87-second firing of the solid­propellant motor sped the $35 mil­lion satellite toward an elliptical orbit 22,300 miles by 184 miles in relation to Earth. Later yesterday an­other "burn" was required to make the orbit more circular at its apogee. 
After three postponements, Dis­covery's crew had to endure yet an­other walt yesterdayfor liftoff-seven minutes this time-because a private plane was circling offshore for a close, but hazardous, view of the launch. It was chased out of the area by an Air Force plane, and the Federal Aviation Administration said it would take action against the pilot. 
"We are happy the orbiter and its crew finally left town," said launch director Bob Sieck. "The launch team is ecstatic. lbe only way to get over an abort and two postpone­ments is to have a successful launch." 
Commander Henry Hartsfield, 50, 
and pilot Michael Coats, 38, began 
checking out the new ship's systems 
as soon as they reached orbit, 184 
miles above Earth. 
Eight hours after liftoff, mission 
specialists Hawley and Richard 
Mullane Issued the commands com­
mencing satellite launch. lbe rocket was timed to ignite 45 minutes after the satellite, spinning at 48 rpm for stability, was ejected With springs from Discovery's cargo bay. 
The firing was supposed to be 86 seconds long; it was 87. 
"That burn was within one second of perfect," said Mission Control's Brian Welch. 
Teamsters repeat '80 endorsement of GOP 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Breakingwith most of the labor establishment, the 
1.9 million-member International Br.otherhood ofTeamsters endorsed President Reagan's campaign yester­day, just as it did four years ago. 
The decision by leaders of the na­tion's largest union was disclosed In advance by Vice President George Bush, who was sent to a Teamsters' meeting here to collect the endorse­ment. 
"For the president and myself I say thank you for putting your faith In us," Bush said in a prepared speech. 
"In 1980 you endorsed us and, of course, tonight you've endorsed us," Bush told the annual meeting of the Ohio Conference of Teamsters. "And millions of union members who aren't Teamsters agreed with you last time and pulled the Reagan­Bush lever. I think even more will this time." 
Advance texts of Bush's speech were distributed even before the Teamsters general executive board met to formally confer its blessing on the Republican administration. 
Earlier, in Washington, the vice president denied that the adminis­tration had struck a deal with the Teamsters over their demand for the ouster of Donald Dotson as chair­man of the National Labor Relations Board. 
Teamsters President Jackie Pres­ser w:as quoted last week as saying. that Dotson's replacement as chair­man was a "do-or-die" issue If Reagan wanted the union's official support. 
While Reagan has promised he will not fire Dotson, an option would be to appoint someone to fill the one vacancy on the NLRB and then designate that person as chair­man. That result would be to demote Dotson from chairman to board member. 
The NLRB is the federal agency re­sponsible for interpreting labor law and refereeing disputes between private employers and employees. 
see REAGAN, page 3 

Hunter cites unlikelihood of tenure as reason for leaving 
By VIC SCIULLI program were to be upgraded, he Hunter, who is 35. Nonetheless, placed on Hunter to leave Notre investigation, and 1 was cleared and MARK WORSCHEH would be replaced as coach. He he said even though he was Dame because of his June 27 ar­of any wrongdoing. It was unfor­Sentor StaffReporters has guided the team since 1977. pursuing other other opportuni­rest in an Elkhart park for public tunate that the story appeared 
Hunter's demotion came ties, "I did expect to be here" for indecency. the way that it did. 
Richard Hunter, former assis­during the summer after "it was After discussing the matter "I have taken steps to clear my tant professor of management, decided between (Management with Hunter, Reilly said he "had name of the entire charge," he• says the unlikelihood of receiv­Department Chairman Robert) no prQblem about what said. But he added, "When some­ing tenure is his primary reason Vecchio and others that it would 
transpired." thing like that appears you have for leaving the University this be best to go back to adjunct 
"There was no pressure on him to think about the implications year. status." The change would have to leave, none whatsoever. We and how it will affect your Hunter, a professor here since resulted in "a significant wanted to keep him as soccer relationships with people." 
1974, said he was told in the decrease" In salary and benefits coach," said Brian Boulac, assis­Hunter said he has not yet spring that "there would be very and an increase in the number of tant athletic director. "I know he made any definite plans, but he little chance of me getting ten­classes he would teach from would hate to leave Notre Dame said he has received several 
ure." He then began to send out three to four, he said. under any circumstances," he strong offers. 
resumes to colleges and firms in "I've had a full schedule for a said. A Notre Dame graduate ('71) 
the East, he said. long time, making It difficult for Hunter also said he received and a 1981 Senior Fellow, 
Other reasons cited by Hunter me to do the things necessary to "no pressure" from anyone at the Hunter's classes are traditionally 
include his demotion to adjunct be granted tenure at the Univer­University to resign. "I was not filled to capacity. In addition, he assistant professor, a desire to be sity," Hunter said "I knew it fired," he said. has often provided free legal ad­closer to his parents -who live in would be even harder to get pro· However, Hunter said "there vice and representation to stu­New Jersey -and concern about fessional things done if I had to are more facts beyond the inci­dents as well as faculty. 
dent than what was reported (in Hunter said he is "not bitter. I
his future as coach of the soccer carry another course." team. The demotion "made it an the South Bend Tribune). The would not trade the last ten years 
Hunter believes if the soccer ideal time to make a move," said University was satisfied with its here for anything." 



------------.­The Observer Friday, August 31, 1984 -page 2 
'r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
I 
~ 
f 
I 
,
' 
~ 

In Brief 
Two workers were injuredwhen they fell from 
a scaffold at the Galvin Life Science Building yesterday. Richard Tol­bert, 32, of 27101 Curtis Dr., Edwardsburg, suffered back pains and was treated and released at St. joseph's Medical Center. Marshall Butler, 46, of 325 N. O'Brien, South Bend, was treated at St.Joseph's for head lacerations. A beam broke loose, knocking the men off the scaffold. They were then taken to the hospital by paramedics. Both men work for the Reinke Construction Co. -The Obseroer 
Associate Mathematics Professor Dr. Julia 
Knight ofNotre Dame has received a 1984 National Science Founda­tion Visiting Professorship for Women for support of her teaching and research at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign during the 1984-85 academic year. Knight joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1977 after teaching at Pennsylvania State University. She is a specialist in mathematical logic, and her research in model theory has received funding from the National Science Foundation. -The Obseroer 
The tnasS migration of more than 6,000 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to Indianapolis for the Purdue game could be "a mess" according to one state police officer. Notre Dame officials are confident they can handle the logistics of sending 145 buses to the Hoosierdome, but State Police Sgt. Joe Baker said the numerous stop lights in Kokomo could cause a major traffic jam. Baker said although two spare buses will be parked at the Peru post in case ofbreakdowns, police have no special plans to handle traffic tie-ups that could result from the buses. Even assigning troopers to control traffic flow might not help, he said. "We'll just have to let the (traffic) lights control it," he said. -AP 
Of Interest 
Notre Dame Jazz Bands and Combos 
auditions will be held Sunday, September 2, at 1 in the afternoon at the Band Annex Building (next to Washington Hall). Openings exist on all instruments. -The Obseroer 
Seven Holy Cross seminarians will be or­
dained deacons Sunday at 1:30 p.m., in the chapel of Moreau Semi­nary. They are Mir;hael Baxter, Delmar, N.Y., Thomas Bednar, Kansas City, Mo., James David, New Bedford, Mass., Robert deleon, Albany, N.Y., John Kurtzke, Falls Church, Va., Kevin O'Connell, Brantford, Ont., and Jeffrey Schneibel, Minneapolis, Minn. The ordaining bis­hop will be the Most Rev. William McManus, bishop of the Diocese ofFort Wayne-South Bend. -The Obseroer 
A Run for Jerry's Kids is scheduled for Monday, Sept. 3 at 8:30a.m. Sponsored by Woodwind Condominiums, In­diana and Michigan Electric and the First National Bank of Elkhart County, this five-mile fun-run will start at Channel 28 on Oakland Avenue in Elkhart. Participants will run a course to Woodwind Con­dominiums on Middlebury Street. Anyone interested should be at Channel 28 before 8 a.m. the day of the run. The registration fee for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students is S5. -The Obseroer 
All SeniOrS are invited to a pig roast Saturday, Sept 1, at Senior Bar. The festivities will start at 7:30p.m. and in addition to the roasted Kahula pig, chicken, turkey, seafood, rice and fruit will be served. Tickets are S7 and are available in the dining halls. Tickets must be purchased in advanced. -The Obseroer 
Weather 
Mostly beautiful today with a 
high in the upper 70s and a low in the low to mid 60s. Tomorrow should be partly sunny with a chance of thundershowers, and a bit warmer with a high in the 80s. The holiday weekend outlook calls for a warm one with a chance of thundershowers. -AP 
The Obserwr-
The Observer ( t·s~ ';9\1 l-...ooo l is puhli~ht:d Monday through Friday and on home football Saturday~. t'XLept during exam and vat:ation periods. The Observer is published by tht· students of tht• l 'niversity of Notre Daml· and Saint Mary's Collegt·. Subst:ription!'l may he purchased for HS per year (!IS per s<:mcst<:r) by writing The Observer, 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46SS6. 
The Observer is a member ofThe As­sociated Press. All r<:production rights are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 
Co-Design Editors................John Mennell Maureen Murphy Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck Kevin Williams News Editor ............................ Amy Stephan Copy Editor.............................John Heasley Sports Copy Edltor.....................JeffBlumb Viewpoint Layout.................... Dave Grote ND Day Editor........................... Miriam Hill SMC Day Edltor........................Jody Radler Ad Design ........................Suzanne LaCroix Pbotograpber....................... Lev Chapelsky Typtst ......................................... Ellen Malloy 
~I 




More political one-liners 
It's almost bran'ding time in the world ofpolitics. The herd of political candidates has been thinned to two steers -one from the plains ofMinnesota, the other from California. But neither Walter Mondale nor Ronald Reagan has yet been burned by that curious brand I'll call the one-liner. 
Henny Youngman -as well as most politicians -are quite adept at delivering the traditional one-liner, es­sentially quips designed to give an audience a .little laugh. But political one-liners resemble labels a can­didate will wear forever, something akin to Hester Prynne's scarlet letter in the Hawthorne novel. 
President Gerald Ford branded himself with a one­line statement in 1976 by saying there "is no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe" during his debate with Jimmy Carter. And Carter lined up for a brand on the rump four years later by revealing that he had consulted with his daughter Amy in order to determine the most important issue in the campaign -nuclear weaponry. 
Both of these statements 

seemed to hang heavily broadcast live.
No, thaf's nof wht.\f I meartf..
around the necks ofthe can­didates up to election day. And both comments also / reinforced what was a popular conception of each candidate · in Ford's case, that he was bumbling and not all that intelligent, and in Carter's, that he was weak and indecisive. 
Yet in the same 1980 cam­paign, Reagan used a one­line brand to his benefit in the primaries in New Hampshire. Any dedicated follower ofthat election still must remember the seated candidate leaning down at the debate in Nashua and yelling, "I'm paying for this microphone!" The crowd roared, the press played the sequence repeatedly and George Bush went down to defeat. 
It indeed seems quite odd that isolated or mistaken statements can have such an effect in an election. Surely Ford must have understood the situation in the Eastern bloc, just as Carter was smart enough to determine the issues without the assistence ofhis 13-year-old child. 
If presidential candidates are to be judged by how few verbal mistakes they make, how can anyone explain Reagan's continuing popularity? A book has been writ­ten listing the hundreds of mistakes that the president has made in his speeches. 
Not many people seem to care, and the book has not 
· sold well. The reason, again, is the reinforcement quality ofReagan's faux pas. Each misstep fits in with the image of a good ol' president who knows where he is going, even though he may miss a few of the insig­nificant details along the way. 
COLOR CITYTV RENTALS 
SPECIAL BACK-TO-SCHOOL DISCOUNT 
20"0FF 
¥ $25.00/Month *$80.00/Semester :If No Deposit ¥Free, Fast Delivery 
• Any size portable or console 13398 McKinley Hwy 
,.~

CD[los • • • 
WILL CLOSE SEPTEMBER 3, 1984 
to give way to tt:Je newest. hoHest restaurant concept currently sweeping the nation ­
GOURMET HAMBURGERS! 

Mark Worscheh 
Managing Editor 
Inside Friday 

Mondale will have a tough time fighting a president who evidently can get away with making mistakes and coming away unscathed. If the Democratic challenger had any doubts about Reagan's knack for avoiding poli­tical suicide, those doubts must have disappeared after Reagan's "Nuke Russia" quip that slipped into the press. 
The NATO countries were flabbergasted at the state­
ment. Magazines in West Germany dedicated cover 
stories to the joke, and one German columnist even 
theorized what might have happened if the statement 
accidentally had been 
But in the United States, the effect on the president's popularity was minimal. Ford would have given anything for such tolerance in 1976. 
In the two debates that tentatively are scheduled for this fall, if Mondale is to score points he immediately must be able to refute some of the questionable statistics that Reagan no doubt will use. By catching the presi­dent on the spot, Mondale may be able to characterize
fi-W 
f-31 Reagan as one who does not think as well as he once could. 
But Mondale must be careful not to brand himself in the process, for he still has not shed the image ofbeing a special-interest puppet. Reagan also has got the brand in the fire, waiting for such an opportunity. The question is, whose rump will feel the brand first? 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpointpage. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Observer staff. 

259·7661 
COMING SOON! 

ABILENE'S will feature the world's greatest hamburgers made from beef ground fresh daily and served on bakery fresh rolls. a whole array of Texas hickory pit barbecue items including short ribs. chicken and smoked sausage, the very best of the Mexican foods from the Carlos Sweeney's menu. great all-American Texas size sandwiches and specialty salads. "down home" dinners featuring fried chicken and country steaks. plus a list of appetizers and desserts that will start ya' and finish ya' in fine fashion. 
Now Accepting Applications for Food Servers, Cooks, Hosts and Bartenders 
The Observer Friday, August 31, 1984 -page 3 

BernardHankjr. 

Trustee 
continuedfrom page 1 
Johnstown, Penn. He underwrote the construction of two residence halls at the University which en­abled an expansion in the number of women undergraduates. 
Father WUllam Lewers 
director of the Office of Interna­tional Justice and Peace of the U.S. Catholic Conference. He previously served as a University trustee and fellow from 1973 to 1979 while provincial superior of the Indiana Province of the Holy Cross Fathers. 
Kathleen Sullivan 
He als<Y taught for six years in the Notre Dame Law School. 
These new trustees bring the total number of trustees to 49; 41 laymen and eight priests. They meet twice a year. Most business of the Board of Trustees is first dealt with in seven committees of the Board. These committees generally meet the day before the entire board meets. 
For example, any questions on University academic policy would first pass through the Academic and Faculty Affairs Committee while questions on student life policy would first pass through the Student Affairs Committee. 
James Murphy, associate vice president of University relations, 

WHEN YOU NEED A LIFT Remember Reliable 
YELLOW 
CAB COMPANY 
• 
Lowest Rates: 4 ride for price of 1 between NO/ St. Mary's and downtown/ shopping centers 

• 24-hour radio-dispatched service 

• 
Limousines available 

• 
Serving NO/St. Mary's students since 1928 



233-9333 
HERTZ 
CAR & TRUCK RENTAL 
• 
Cars, trucks and vans 

• 
Rent by day, week or longer 

• 
Car rentals local or one-way 

• 
Open 7 days a week 

• 
Most convenient location for checking in and out 




232-5871 

Convenient location near Notre Dame campus 710 North Niles Avenue, South Bend 
"Can anyone ever have enough denims & cords?" 
"Not ifthey're Pioneer cords at 2 for 525 or 513.98 each." 

"Not ifthey're Levi's at 515.98 each." 
We've also got Levi's 501. The button-front jean that shrinks to fit. 
272-2706 
UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 

Thomas Coleman 
said,"The Board of Trustees is con­cerned with University policy. They are not concerned with the day to day management of the University. That is the job of the University ad­ministration." 
He also said that it is the responsi­bility of the Board of Trustees to elect the Officers of the University, approve the University's annual 



Reagan 
continuedfrom page I 
Complaints have been raised about huge case backlogs and reports of feuding between Dotson and Patricia Diaz Dennis, a Democratic lawyer named to the board by Reagan in 1983. 
The Teamsters, the nation's larg­est union, was the only major labor group to come out for Reagan in 1980, largely at the insistence of Presser, then president of the Ohio conference. Presser rose to the presidency when Roy Williams resigned under a court order that preserved his freedom while he ap-

Frank Pasquerllla 
budget and invest the University's endowment. Chairman of the Board is Thomas Carney, president of Metatech Cor­
poration, Northbrook, Illinois. 
Board members are chosen by the University Fellows, a self­perperuating body of 12 people, six priests and six laymen. Father 
pealed a federal bribery-conspirarcy conviction. 
Presser himself is under investiga­tion by federal prosecutors for possi­ble involvement in a "ghost payroll" scheme in which people allegedly received money from a Teamsters local in Cleveland without actually doing any work for it. 
Presser has never been indicted or convicted. 
In his address, Bush said the ad­ministration inherited a disaster in the economy. "Working men and women were shattered by what we called the Carter-Mondale depres­sion," he said. 
Without mentioning the deep recession during Reagan's term, Bush said, "We. have now begun the strongest recovery in decades and 
Fr. William Lewrs 

Theodore Hesburgh, University president, is the chairman of the fel­lows, all ofwhom are also University trustees. The fellows meet at the same time as the trustees and serve 
to elect trustees and preserve the Catholic character of Notre Dame. The Board of Trustees next meet on campus November 16. 
hope and faith have been returned to America." 
Singling out the American inva­sion ofGrenada, Bush said, "We have a foreign policy to be proud ofand a foreign policy reflective of a presi­dent who's proud ofAmerica." 
The vice president said Walter Mondale, now the Democratic presidential nominee, claimed that Reagan could not reduce inflation and could not cut unemployment. "We did," said Bush. 
"Now they say we can't bring the deficit down," the vice president added. "President Reagan says we will, that we've overcome these problems one by one and now it's time for this one. So far in this game it's Ronald Reagan two, Walter Mondale zero." 

egtna sophomores seem happy in formerly 'freshman' dormitory 
By KAREN mOMPSON 
News Staff 
One hundred and eighteen Regina Hall sophomores are adapting well to the previously all freshman dorm. Hall Director Margaret Caven has yet to hear a complaint about the integration of more sophomores into the hall. 
Freshman Elisa Sawtell is en­thusiastic about having up­perclassmen in the hall. "I know that some sophomores aren't happy about living in Regina, but it gives us freshmen a chance to feel more a part ofit all and to get to know a wider variety of people," she said. 

Colleen Yurkanin, a resident assistant, said srudents are "making the best ofit." Yurkanin, who has ten sophomores on her floor, said "A major upset was the decision not to allow lofts in the rooms." 
After last semester's decision to integrate the hall, students re­quested permission to build lofts in their rooms. A firm hired by Saint Mary's designed a loft thought to be safe and space effi­cient, but after a careful analysis the lofts were deemed unsatisfac­tory. 
Sophomore Susie Ness, a two­year Regina resident, commented, "There are pros and cons to every situation, and I'm here now, so I'm making the best ofit." She added, "You make your. own fun." 
Cavern agrees, "The building doesn't make a home, people do." 
Freshman Mary LaSata (right) enjoys the benefit of newly integrated Regina Hall. The lsoD"•')fflore jeanne Lamke's (left) company in the freshman donn now ts borne to JIB sophomores. 
, 
,1 
, 
~ 
,.. 
,1 
~ 
1 
, 1 
, 
j 
,~ 
The Observer 



Collapsed roof in Oklahoma store injures 14; 5 could still be missing 
Assodated Press foot former bowling alley had a crumbling and kind of worked 
warning of"maybe 20 or 30 seconds toward the middle. The roof falling 
DEL CITY, Okla. -Shoppers had at most." Shoppers were blown out literally blew people out the front only 30 seconds warning before a the front and others "crawled and door. At least four were blown out rain-soaked roof collapsed yes­ran out as the roof came down." the front door." tersday at a discount department A dozen employees should have Fourteen people -five men and store, blowing people out of the been inside at the time of the col­nine women-were taken to Midwest front door and injuring at least 14, lapse, he said. "They are all out and City Hospital. None were injured . authorities said. we are thankful for that. We don't seriously enough to be admitted, 
,Five people might be missing after know about the customers." said Gerry Larsen, the hospital's ex­the accident at Wall's Bargain Cen­Lyn Cusic of the Del City Police ecutive secretary. Victims' ages ter in this Oklahoma City suburb, a Department said, "We have talked to ranged from 4 to 69. Police Department secretary said. a customer who believes there are Injuries were mainly "bumps, 
"The way it came down, I can't see between 10 and 20 people still bruises and scratches," said Anita how there couldn't be (people inside." Cusic estimated the number McCain, director ofcommunity rela­trapped)," said shopper Annette at five. tions for the hospital. Carlisle, 35, of Midwest City. "I saw Lowe said the concrete and steel "A 4-year-old boy had a bump on children in there, but I never saw reinforced building was built in the the knee. He was hurt about as badly any come out." 1950s and the shallow-arched roof as anyone," said McCain. 
From above, t:Qe shallow-arched was being tarred, but no structural Rescuers standing in the steel and 
roof, supported by five external work was involved and apparently masonry rubble called out to try to 
curved trusses, gave the appearance no one was on the roof when it col­find victims, but heard no answers to 
of having deflated. The roof of the lapsed. their shouts. The hospital had a 100­
former bowling alley was sunken in "We have no idea what hap­worker emergency team ready on 
the middle and still attached around pened," Lowe said. He said it was stand-by, said McCain. 
the edges. unknown ifwater from heavy thun· Two large cranes lifted air con­
When the roof first began groan­derstorms the night before had ditioners and other large metal ing, "I knew something was happen­caused damage. equipment that fell to the center of ing, but I didn't know what," Carlisle An unidentified witness said the building when the roof gave said. water came pouring into the build­way. 
"I was getting ready to get into the ing. The cranes were brought in after checkout line. It was a rumble from Another unidentified witness said emergency workers failed to tunnel one end." Ceiling panels knocked "the east end of the roof just started through the debris, said Cusic. 


her over and insulation showered down around her. "I prayed and screamed. I just felt like I wasn't going to make it." 
She said the ceiling came down and reduced the store aisles to."little 

r tunnels." Carlisle heard voices 
r outside the building and followed 
r them to the exit, crawling on her 
I hands and knees. 
r 
Jim Lowe, a spokesman at the 

r 
store's home office in Shawnee, said people inside the 40,000 square­

~ 
Indiana man said to be

t 
Brown victim 

Assodated Press 
LEBANON, Ind. -A fingerprint found in the car of a slain In­dianapolis man has been positively identified as that of Debra Brown, traveling companion of Alton Cole­man, Sheriff Ern Hudson said yester­day. 
Coleman and Brown are accused in a six-state crime spree in which at least seven people died. 
Eugene Scott, 77, is believed to have been the last victim. He was found stabbed to death july 19 along a dead-end Boone County road near the Indiana 334 interchange with In­terstate 65 just north of In­dianapolis. 
Police said Scott was last seen alive at 3:30 p.m. when he drove away from his Indianapolis home. His body was found about four hours later. 
Scott's car was recovered the next day in Evanston, Ill., about five blocks away from the city park where Coleman, 28, of Waukegan, Ill., and Brown, 21, were ap­prehended. 
Hudson said the confirmation of Ms. Brown's figerprint in Scott's auto is "the first piece of physical evidence which obviously confirms we are on the right track." 
He said authorities still are check­ing for Coleman's fingerprints in the car and awaiting ballistics test results in an attempt to link bullets in Scott's body with an empty .32­caliber revolver found in Brown's 
purse. Coleman and Brown are being held in Dayton, Ohio, where a new schedule has been set for issues to be settled before they will be brought to trial on either a federal 
kidnaping charge there or an ag­gravated murder charge in Hamilton County, Ohio. 


What you need to tackle the higher mathematics of a science or engineering cur­riculum are more functions ­more functions than a simple slide-rule calculator has. 
Enter the TI-55-II, with 112 powerful functions. You can work faster and more accurately with the TI-55-II, because it's preprogrammed 
© 1983 Texas Instruments 

to perform complex calcula­tions -like definite integrals, linear regression and hyper­holies -at the touch of a button. And it can also be programmed to do repetitive problems without re-entering the entire formula. 
Included is the Calculator Decision-Making Sourcebook. It makes the process of using the TI-55-II even simpler, and shows you how to use all the power of the calculator. 
Get to the answers faster. Let a TI-55-II ..fi2. show you how. ~ 
TEXAS 
INsrRUMENTs Creating useful products and services for you. 

The Obserwr Friday, August 31, 1984 -page '5 
Indiana courts uphold pre-trial license suspension in DWI cases 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOUS -The Indiana Su­preme Court upheld a state law yes­terday which authorizes pre-trial license suspensions for motorists ar­rested for drunken driving. 
In -a 5-0 decision, the justices 
overturned the decision of Special Judge Alexis Clarke of Porter Super­ior Court, who had ruled that the statute was unconstitutional. 
Under the 1983 law, amended in 1984, the Bureau of Motor Vehicles can suspend the license ofa motorist who either refuses to take a chemi­cal breath test or who takes the test and registers a blood alcohol con­tent of.1 0 percent or more. 
_ The suit was brought by four 
The Obscrvcr/LC'v Chapelsky 

Trapped 
There seems to be no escape for Cbrls Smolen, caught In a jungle on the eleventh floor ofFlanner Hall. Soon the clutter will disappear and all of this stuff will somehow be squeezed Into rooms, but In the meantime Smolen and others /Ike him are forced to cllmh their way home. 
HELP! 

COUNSELINE, the University of Notre Dame telephone tape service run by your Counseling and Psychological Services Center needs volunteers to handle the phones again. This semester, for a rewarding experience, 
please call 239-5486 or 239-7336 if you would like to volunteer, or stop by the Student Health Center, 3rd floor (Infirmary). 
motorists -including a Pennsylvania trucker and an Illinois man -who were arrested on drunken driving charges in Porter County in Septem­ber 1983. They argued the immedi­ate loss of their drivers licenses violated their constitutional right to 
due process oflaw. 
The license suspension occurs after a judge has ruled there was 

NAVY MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE 
Navy Medical Scholarships provide: 
• 
Your full tuition, authorized fees and educational expenses. 

• 
The cost of requrred books and supplies. 

• 
Rental fees for necessary equipment such as microscopes. 

• 
A monthly cash payment directly to you, to spend as you please! 



Participatron rn the Navy Health Professions Scholarship Program does not involve any military tra1n1ng nor requ1res weanng of a Navy un1form. Your 
academiC  routine  and  lifestyle  w111  remain  ~he  same  as  other  medical  
students.  
Qualifications for this scholarship include:  
Be accepted for the next entering class or currently enrolled in  an  
approved school of medicine or osteopathy.  
Be a U.S. citizen.  
Be physically qualified for a commission as a Naval Officer.  
For more  information contact Kathy Scanlon  
TOLL  FREE 1-800-382-9782 or  local  269-6199  
Or write  to:  Medical  Programs  
Room 646  
575 N.  Pennsylvania  
Indianapolis,  IN  46204  

probable cause to believe that the motorist was driving while intox­icated. The drivers license, surren­dered by the motorist upon arrest, Is forwarded to the BMV, which notifies the motorist of the suspen­sion and of his right to a judicial hearing. 
In analyzing U.S. Supreme Court decisions in the area, the Indiana justices concluded that "neither this court nor the United States Supreme Court has ever held that there exists a fundamental right to drive a motor 
vehicle." 
Noting that two of the plaintiffs were from other states, Justice Alfred Pivarnik wrote, "we also do not think that the fundamental right to interstate travel implies a funda­mental right to drive since the voluntarily induced suspension of a person's drivers license does not necessarily curtail that person's freedom to move from state to state." 
The Indiana court said there were three factors to consider in review­ing the law: the private interest In­volved: the risk of erroneous 
declared incompetent to handle her 
own affairs. 
Last October, Zaccaro borrowed S 100,000 from the estate, repaying it five months later, and borrowed 
another 575,000 this year, which was also repaid. 
Zaccaro's lawyer, Morton Pov­man, said last week that any attorney would have known the loans were improper, but Zaccaro is not a lawyer and "I don't think that knowl­edge is known outside the legal field." He also told the court the guidelines Zaccaro was given when named conservator were "absolutely, completely vague." 
The judge also said Zaccaro believed he was acting properly when he paid 12 percent interest on the borrowed money instead of the 
10.5 percent at which it was 
borrowed. However, he ruled that a "trustee deprivation of the license; and the public interest served. 
Measuring the Indiana law against a 1979 U.S. Supreme Court decision in a case challenging a Massachu­setts administrative suspension pro­cedure, the justices concluded that the public interest outweighs the private interest in the driver's 
license as well as the risk that the motorist might erroneously be deprived ofhis license. 
"We now find that Indiana's inter­est in keeping its highways safe by removing drunken drivers from its roads is every bit as great as that recognized by the Supreme Court 
(in  the  Massachusetts case),"  the  
court wrote.  
"Accordingly,  we  find  that  this  

most compelling interest in highway safety and public welfare justifies the state in making summary suspen­sions pending the outcome of the prompt post-suspension judicial hearing available by statute," the court added. 
Attorney General Linley Pearson, whose office defended the statute, hailed the court's ruling. 
Judge forces Zaccaro to leave post at estate due to questionable loans 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Astate judge today removed John Zaccaro, husband of Democratic vice presidential can­didate Geraldine Ferraro, as conser­vator for an estate from which he borrowed $175,000. 
"The mere appearance of im-
WELCOME BACK Notre Dame Students 
from 
Beacon Bowl 
~\)[''"' --Specials-]
75¢ games 50¢ beer with sludeniiD 
4210 Lincoln Way W. 234-4167 located on US 20 by S.B. Airport Watclafor More apeclab tlala year 

propriety must be assiduously shall not place himself in a position avoided," said state Supreme Court where his interest is or may be in Justice Edwin Kassoffin his opinion. conflict with his duty." 
"There is no suggestion of dis-In the six-page decision the judge honesty or malicious intent on the said he would later decide whether part of the conservator. Mr. Zaccaro Zaccaro will receive any compensa­was a forthright witness, and the tion for his services as conservator court believes that he sought to for the estate. abide by the instructions that he was Zaccaro was not present when the given." written decision was released. 
Zaccaro was named by Kassoff in At a hearing before Kassoff last 
1982 to act as conservator of the week, Zaccaro maintained that he 
estate of Alice Phelan, 84, a nursing was "doing the right thing" by bur­
home resident who had been rowing the money for use by his 
realty firm, P. Zaccaro Co., because "I knew I had the wherewithal to guarantee" the loans. 
In response to a question from the judge, Zaccaro said it had "never en­tered my mind" to seek legal advice on the propriety of the loans, which were repaid with 12 percent intl'r­
est. 

The court-appointed referee in 
the case, jonathan Weinstein, said 
the hearing was not a trial of Zac­
caro's character and "the only ques­
tion is with respect to his discretion, 
whether he should have known ... 
that self-dealing is prohibited in this 
case." 

Ms. Ferraro, who wa-; a part owner 
and director of the realty firm, an­
nounced before the hearing that she 
was giving up her interest in the 
company. The Democratic vice 
presidential nominee has said she 
had learned of the loans only 
rel·entJy . 

.................................... 
: Bu •
: YObserver : 
; classifieds: 
,_____ _____ , 
ONDtROSA.
, p Siti\K\\OtlSf. ~
'

,
:Sandwich $1s' : 
: with : : Fries and Pepsi : 
I I  Your choice of olnglo Chopped 1 Steak or Flah Sandwich wtth french I  
I  frtn and popol-cola. No carryoull, cannot be uood with other dlo- I  
1'  Valid thru Sept. 30, 1984 U.S. 31 N (Next to No. Vlllag•lllall)  counts. Tu not Included. At partie-I lpatlng Steuhouon. Co•po• '  
~  '  1982 PONDEROSA. INC  _..for 111011 ......, ..... ,  

~-------------------J 

The Observer 
Israeli politicalfactions progress toward a bipartisan government 
new government because Labor had Peres and Shamir resolved two of

Associated Press outpolled the Ukud bloc, 43 seats to the main sticking points in their talks TELAVIV, Israel-Prime Minister 41. But Herzog also asked Peres to Wednesday, the Israeli news media Yitzhak Shamir and his designated try to unite with Likud, rather than had reported earlier... put together a narrow coalition with They agreed that new Jewish
successor, Shimon Peres, have reached agreement on establishing a some of the 13 smaller parties that settlements on the occupied West bipartisan government, Israel Radio Bank of the Jordan River would be
won seats in the 120-member Knes­reported yesterday. 
set. approved by a simple majority in the r Negotiations continued for more joint Cabinet, Armed Forces Radio r" than three weeks to join the Labor Shamir's backers had said they said. Labor had demanded a two­
r Party and Shamir's Ukud bloc in ana­would demand the premiership; thirds majority for such decisions, in 
r tional unity government, following Peres had said at the beginning of hopes of keeping campaign prom­r divisive July 23 elections which negotiations that leadership of the ises to freeze settlement building. r gave neither party a majority in the government was not negotiable, and 
r parliament. many politicians had suggested al­The two men also agreed on the r Few details ofthe agreement were ternating the national leadership be­phrasing of an Israeli invitation to r Jordan's King Hussein to negotiate
immediately available. tween the two men. r The major obstacle to forming a The two rivals said after a meeting peace. No mention was made of r joint Labor-Ukud government had Wednesday that they expected their Likud's demand that such talks be 
been the question ofleadership. negotiations to conclude by this based on the U.S. -brokered Camp~ David agreement nor of Labor's 
r 
Labor president Chaim Herzog week. had named Peres the prime minister They are scheduled to meet again demand that Israel the
enter r negotiations without preconditions.
designate and asked him to form a today.
r 
r
, 
Developers count on population
r 
lbe Ob"'rver/Lev Cbapelsky 
~ 
, growth trends to ease housing glut Sonne legal advice 
r 
The rock group The Law entertains crowds on the Stepan Mall r r Associated Press The Alamo City is host to five "Some people say San Antonio has yesterday afternoon. The music was just one of the many events major military bases, a thriving a two-year supply of apartments," planned for Welcome Week by the Student Activtes Board.
r 
SAN ANTONIO, Texas -Move in tourist industry and is attracting Szymanski said. Tommorow Stepan Mall will once again ring with sound when the 
r 
r today, get a microwave tomorrow -high-tech industrial development. At 80 percent occupancy, Music King provides musicfor a Chance to Dance. r or a ceiling fan, or S200 cash or Another reason for the apartment developers could be losing money r bonds worth 520,000 in 30 years. glut is the recent availability of on apartment complexes, said Bill r These are just a few of the incen­financing. Melson, senior vice president of 
tives apartment complexes are offer­The Bexar County Housing Hendry Investments. ing to boost their occupancy_ rates, Finance Corp., a joint city-county But because many projects are which averaged a low 80 percent in operation, was set up to provide low funded totally by financial institu­San Antonio last month. interest money for apartment devel­tions, developers are staying afloat BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
The housing glut in San Antonio opment. through deferred interest payments 
PREPARE FOR: 

affects not only the rental market Szymanski said the stated purpose tacked onto the lateryears ofaloan. but also the real estate business. of the corporation was to provide Meanwhile, in the real estate busi­
LSAT/GMAT
Despite the surplus, new houses and low-and moderate-income housing, ness, there are more than 9,000 
• TEST-N-TAPE® LIBRARY

apartments are still going up at a fast but many multi-family dwellings for houses on the market in San An­
• REINFORCEMENT TEST

clip. people in middle and upperincomes tonio. The average turnover time is 
• HOMESTUDY PACKET 

The oversupply in the nation's came out ahead as well. 80 to 90 days, about a month longer 
CLASSES STARTING

tenth largest city is most evident "In the last two and a halfyears, 40 than normal, officials said. among apartments, where there are percent of apartment housing starts SEPTEMBER 2 an estimated 95,000 rental units on have been financed by this corpora­The figures do "reflect that it's I 
r line. tion," he said. slow," said William Chapman, presi­
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 272·4135
Ken Szymanski, spokesman for the Apartments also have proven to dent of the San Antonio Board of San Antonio Apartment Association, be solid investments for savings and Realtors. attributes the abundance of loans and syndicates. Tax laws al­"It has to be directly related to in­
! \************************************
residences to the" 'sunbelt phenom­lowing bigger depreciation breaks terest rates," Chapman said of the 

r 
enon': the anticipation of growth on have fueled the construction fire. sluggish turnover. 
r 
the part of investors and developers 
~ 
on the national level." "They feel like it's a good idea to r have the product on line, in the
r 
ground, when the growth occurs,'~
r 
Szymanski said.
r 
Similar occupancy rates prevail in Houston, with 81 percent, but in Dallas, 91 percent occupancy prevails. Chicago has a 93 percent occupancy rate, New York City an occupancy rate of more than 97 per­cent and Los Angeles has a 99.5 per­cent occupancy rate. 
San Antonio already is growing. The most recent city population fig­ures are 850,000, with projections of 30 percent growth this decade. 
The city generates eight out often new jobs through internal growth, said Gen. William McBride, presi­dent of the Greater San Antonio 
r Chamber ofCommerce. 
r r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 

Matresses comforters pillows 
232 South Michigan Standard &Custom Sizes 
South Bend, IN 46601 Hours: 
Tues.-Sat. 10-4 219·233·8176 
~ 

~ : 
! Dave Bergland : 
~ * ':PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE : : for the Libertarian Party * • * • ** 
-tr will be speaking * 
t ~ : 
! WASHINGTON HALL :
•~ Monday, September 3 * 
~ * 
~ 7:00p.m. ~ 
~ ~ 
~ * 
***********************************~ 
The Department of Communication and Theatre Frldav FUm Serie• at the Snite 

FALL FILM SERIES 
begins this Friday, August 31 

with: The Return of Martin Guerre (1982) 
Directed by Daniel Vigne, Martin Guerre is a rigorously researched period piece that 
juggles complex social theories, a powerful love story, and a keep appreciation for the 
suspenseful qualities ofthis historical narrative. Martin Guerre was a boorish 16th 
century peasant who abandoned his wife and child to go to war, was unheard of for eight 
years, and then returned to his village spirited, loving, able to read and write, and a 
diligent worker. Within three years he was investigated as an imposter. Playwrights, 
novelists, essayists, historians, and now film have been fascinated with the mysteries of 
this case ever since. friday, Auguet 31. 7:30 and 9:30p.m. 
NEXT WEEK: 

Monday, September 3, 7:00p.m. Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator (1940) 
Monday, September 3, 9:00p.m. The Marx Brothers' Duck Soap (1933) 
Tuesday, September 4, 7:30p.m. Francois Truffaut's Shoot the Piano Plaver
communK:FmOn 

(1960) 

a. THEATRE Individual admission: $2.50 Discount series tickets available at the door. All shows in the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum, Notre Dame Campus. Watch for oar FaU Film Serle• Calendar. coming •oon• 

··--"

View~_o_i_n__t_________F_rid-ay...,A_.ugu_s_t3....1,......19-84__.p..liag.._e7 


.. .... -­;' -.... I ' \ 
' ..... -.., /
-
-


A Merciful Killing 

Her name was Tracy. She was a beautiful and very athletic fourteen year-old girl with a bright future. It seems, however, that Tracy was bitten by a mosquito carrying a herpes simplex strain of viral encephalitis. Three hospitals, numerous doctors, and two weeks later, Tracy was dead. There were no warning 
Paul Cimino 
on a pale horse 

signs; just one day ofhigh fever and delerlum. 
lbe next day she no longer had control of 
even the simplest body functions. 
During every day of the two weeks that 
Tracy was hospitalized her diagnosis got 
progressively worse. At one point, her parents 
had to face the fact that If she lived, she would 
most likely be brain-dead. She would be a total 
vegetable; unable to care for herself at all. 
lbe question facing the parents was: should 
they keep Tracy alive through the use of 
machines, all the while knowing that she 
would never be the same again? Or should 
they pull the plug and let the poor girl die, since It seemed that God intended that from the start? 
You may talk about this subject In class sometime during your four years. You may even have a heated debate with your class­mates. Still, you can never know what your real feelings on the subject are until you are faced with this exact situation. 
The subject of euthanasia has been the topic ofheated debate during the past decade. From the Karen Ann Quinlan case right up un­til today, euthanasia has been responsible for many court cases. But I don't care about any of these cases. l~ Is time that someone stood up and took a side once and for all. Mercy killing should be legalized in the good old U.S.A. and that's all there Is to it. 
Why? 
O.K. Stop right where you are, dear reader, and put yourself In a hospital bed. You have just been pronounced brain-dead. Do you un­derstand, really understand what that means? Ifyou don't, I will tell you. You are now, In the worst sense of the word, dead. Your brain has ceased to function. It can never be started again. Sure, your body still works. In fact, you are in perfect physical shape. But you are 
dead. 
Now, take a look around you. You really are 
oblivious to all that is going on, but for the 
sake of this article, you can take a quick look. 
What do you see? 
First ofall, you see wires and tubes running 
from your body to a plethora of machines de­
signed to keep your body functioning. At your 
side, your mother is holding your hand and 
talking. Meanwhile, a host of doctors hover 
around the bed wondering If there mlgh~ still 
be some hope left. 
Out in the waitng room, your dad is sitting 
with your brothers, sisters, and assorted aunts 
and uncles. You will never be able to see or 
talk to them again. You have no feeling in your 
body; you're just a lump offlesh and organs all 
of which have refused to follow your brain's 
lead. 
O.K. now you are standing by the bed. You are no longer on that bed. Instead, your younger brother lies there In the same condi­tion you were in just a second ago. Knowing what you now know, would you want him to live? To be kept alive for as long as possible by electricity and machines? No. Why should his 
body be kept alive when, for all intents and 
purposes, his mind, his psyche, his personal­
ity, his true life, Is dead? 
Certain states have laws protecting brain­dead people and if one were to try to "pull the plug," charges would be filed. But why? The person Is already dead. Or do state legislatures comprehend just what death is? 
Our central government has made a monstrous mistake by decentralizing author­Ity on so important a subject. There should be a federal commission set up to investigate eut­hanasia and to establish new guidelines which can be followed in cases such as this one. The decision to "pull the plug" should reside In the hands of the comatose person's guardians and no one else. These guardians are the only ones who will take care of the person and pay for the doctor bills, therefore the decision should be theirs. 
Until this Issue is solved, the situation will just continue to get worse. The government should Intervene on behalf of its citizens. Either that, or all forms of brain debilitating diseases should be wiped out once and for all. 
Paul Cimino is a sophomore tn the College ofScience at Notre Dame. 

Prejudice and Candor 
Since I have an English name and an Irish face -the legacies, respectively, of my father and mother-many people do not realize that I have a bias for Italians, having married one. So they are not hesitant to reveal their own bias against Italians. 
These recent weeks have been a revelation to me. People I would never have suspected of 
Garry Wills 

outrider 
prejudice made it clear that prosperous Italians are automatically suspected of under­world ties, especially in New York, especially if they have anything to do with the real estate 
business. 

Well, prejudice Is a stubborn weed. It grows back, no matter how often you clear it away. Geraldine Ferraro and her husband have un­dergone weeks of unjust suspicion. The bur­den ofproofwas Immediately put upon them, not their accusers. Yet it turns out they have overcomplied with laws about disclosure, and it looks as If they have overcomplied with tax laws as well. Can their high-bracket accusers say as much ofthemselves? 
·oespite all this, I must observe that Ferraro asked for some ofthe trouble that was going to be visited on her, no matter what the merits of her position. Here I am judging her not as an Italian-not, for that matter, as a Catholic, not as a woman-but solely as a politician. 
She made a whole series of mistakes. First, 
she gratuitously said her husband would 
release his own tax returns. The odds are he would have been forced to do that anyway, _but she made the odds overwhelming by volunteering that Information before she had 
to. 
Then, compounding the mistake, she said that he would not release his tax returns -and di(j It over a week In advance of the deadline for any action. If she had really decided that was the situation, there was still no reason to talk of it, focusing national attention on this subject in the period that followed her eup­horic convention appearances. 
Now, her needless comments really did seal 
the matter. Saying that he would not disclose, 
after saying that he would, guaranteed that he 
had to. 
So, ifJohn Zaccaro resents the Invasion of 
his privacy, he should know where to fix the 
blame. But, beyond that, does he actually have 
some right to privacy that has been Infringed? 
Public life Is a profession to the common 
good; It means -and has meant from the time 
ofGeorge Washington-the sacrifice ofprivate 
advantage and Interests. Especially it has 
meant accountability. Those unwllllng to con­
duct their affairs in the light of this public 
charge are simply untrue to the heritage of 
our republic. This Intrusiveness Is not a new thing, but a very ancient ideal. 
What is the balance then? The suspicions voiced against the Zaccaros were rash, premature and prejudiced. The handling of the disclosure on the part of Ferraro was maladroit. But the need for disclosure, for what the founders called "candor," is an over­riding one, and always has been. 
(c) 1984 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
A Traveling Story 
As I walRed back from the bazaar, her eyes weighed upon my back. A beggar woman, kneeling In the filthy street, looked up Into my eyes, and I did nothing. Nothing! The 125 degree sun sunk Into her black robe and veil as 
Tim Gianotti 

Geo says 
she returned her gaze to the dust. I stood above her and did nothing. 
My feet stumbled, and I lurched to save the bag of filafel, fruit and bread I had just pur­chased. My face "was forced down into the paper sack, and I saw the bread. Regaining my balance, I brought my legs to a halt. 
Allah please, let her be there. Please let her still be there. My worn Nikes pounded the baked, dusty backstreet, moving faster as I neared the spot where I had seen the beggar wop1an. The bazaar was more crowded now, and panic filled my chest as I scanned the busy scene. Please! Then the answer to my desper­ate prayer arrived. A group parted, and she was again before me. 
Recalling it now, I am not certain she was surprised to see me, but her eyes grew wide when I knelt down in the dust beside her and tried to lift her up. She did not deserve to grovel at my dirty sneakers. She would not budge, however, and I feared offending her; so I gave up. 
Still kneeling In the dust, I offered her half my bread, a tomato and a melon. She accepted the food, but her eyes were blank of any excitement, only humble gratitude. Realizing there was nothing more, I got up and headed back to my air-conditioned hotel room. I did not feel terrific, but I found a little satisfaction In the thought that she could give her children dinner. 
One afternoon In Fernwood Middle School, Johnny Anderson pitched his sandwich be­cause he was tired ofpeanut butter. 
Tim Gianotti Is a sophomore in the College ofArts & Letters at Notre Dame. 
Got an opinion, drop us a line 
Viewpoint not only provides you an opportunity to respond to the columns, articles and illustrations printed this newspaper, but through 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you can address issues which have not been raised to your satisfaction in this newspaper. VIewpoint encourages all ofits readers to fully expore and voice their opinions. Simply send your letter toP. 0. Box Q or deliever It to our office. Letters should be no longer than 150 words in length and guest columns should not exceed 600 words. All works must be signed. 
Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller ................ Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor . ....... Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager. : ....... Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor ............ Michael Sullivan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor . ............. Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  Photo Editor . .........•..... Pete Laches  

Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Women's Soccer ciub will hold open practice today at 4 p.m. on the Stepan Fields. All are welcome. For more information, call Karen Moritz at 1293 or Letty at 21 56. -The Observer 
The lacrOSSe team will have a meeting Sunday, Sept. 2, at 1 p.m. on Cartier Field. The meeting will be followed by a scrimmage, so come prepared to play. -The Observer 
Open volleyball tryouts will be held today at 3 
p.m. in the ACC Pit. Anyone interested should come ready to play. For more information, call 2 39-514 3. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Water Polo Club wm 
have an organizational meeting for anyone interested. New mem­bers are encouraged to attend. The meeting will be at 10 p.m. on Sunday, Sept. 2, in the LaFortune lobby. Anyone interested but unable to attend should call Mike at 1471. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus soccer teamis now forming. 
Anyone interested in playing this fall should see Mike Tullio on Mon­day, Sept. 3, on the first floor ofLaFortune from 12-4 p.m., or else call him at 277-8491. -The Observer 
Stretchercise,a different kind of exercise class featuring stretching and light exercise, is being offered by the Non-Varsity Athletic Office. The classes will be held on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:10-6 p.m. at ACC Gym 4, above Gate 3. Call the NVA office at 239-5100 for more information. -The Observer 
A scuba diving class is being offered by the NVA Office. The course will run for a period of six weeks and will award YMCA lifetime certification. To find out more about living under­water, come to the organizational meeting Tuesday, Sept. 4, at 6 p.m. , in Room 219 ofthe Rockne Memorial. -The Observer 

Friday,Algust 31, 1984 -page 8 
The first set ofdeadlines has been announced by 
NVA. September 5 is the deadline for registration for the following sports: men's and women's interhall football, undergrad and grad­faculty singles tennis for men and women, undergrad and grad­faculty mixed doubles tennis, co-ree softball, and the 16-inch softball slow pitch tourney. September 12 is the deadline for entries for grad touch football, men's soccer, co-ree water polo, and the golf tourney. -The Observer 
Deadline for signupsfor events that will be held at tomorro'Y's NVA beach party at St. Joseph's Lake is 5 p.m. today. These events are an innertube water polo tourney and a biathlon (half-mile swim followed by a two-mile run). One can enter at the NVA office in the ACC. -Tbe Observer 
Aerobic classes for both men and women begin on Sept. 5 and 6. Classes run from 4-4:50 p.m. and 5:10-6 p.m. on Mon­days and Wednesdays. There also will be a class from 4-4:50 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Classes will be held in Gym 4 of the ACC (above Gate 3 ). Advanced registtation is necessary. The cost for the classes is as follows: students -S4 (halfsemester) or_ $6 (full semes­ter), faculty and staff -Sl3 (halfsemester) or $25 (full semester). Register at the NVA office. -The Observer 
The hockey teamwill hold an organizational meeting for all returning players and anyone else who is interested in trying out for the team. The meeting will be Monday, Sept. 3, at 4:30p.m. All attending should report to the North Dome of the ACC, to the stands behind the home box. -The Observer 
The men's track team will hold an organizational· meeting on Wednesday, Sept. 5, at 4:30 p.m., in the ACC Football Auditorium. Students interested in either indoor or outdoor track should attend. -The Observer 
All returning wrestlersand all those interested in wrestling should report to a mandatory meeting on Tuesday, Sept. 4, in the ACC Football Auditorium. Please bring a copy of your schedules. -The Observer 
Student Ticket Distribution 
Freshmen 
TQDAY 
GATE3 
3-Bp.m. 
Crisp 

continuedfrom page 12 
running backs a chance to run the ball. Chris Smith and Alonzo Jeffer son both ruse to the occasion, with Smith picking up 53 yards on six carries (including a 20-yard romp) 
and Jefferson adding another 20 yards on four attempts. 
Beuerlein completed eight of 12 passes for 87 yards, while Grooms connected on six of I 0 for 13 7 yards while yielding an interception. 
Of significance in the scrimmage was that the kicking game has im­proved. Backup punter Hal Von Wyl averaged 39 yards for his five punts with starter Mike Viracola was out for the day with an ear infection. Placekicker John Carney connected on a 27-yard field goal and sent his kickoffs high and deep, continuing to show his kicking proficency. 
"The kicking game was very good 
today," said Faust. "We were pleased 
with what we saw." 

The Irish will continue to prepare 
for the Boilers, but hope to stay away 
from any additional injuries so 
practices will emphasize situations 
instead offierce hitting. 
The Observer Notre Dame office. located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m .. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office. I<Kated on the third floor of Haggar College Center. accepts classifieds from 12::10 p.m. until .~p.m .. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is :1 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 ~·ents per five charac­
Classifieds 

ters er day. 
NOTICES 
Here lies the Notre Dame student ot yes­terday. now extinct. II you think ot it. have a Coke for him. 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC BOb Skinner or CPi Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
Are you In need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOlARSHIPS! See LTC BOb Skinner or CPi Anne Aleman In the ROTC Building. (239-6264) 
EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 alter 5:30 
TYPING SERVICE 2n-6045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE 
BRIDGE BRIDGE BRIDGE Who says there's nothing to do? Call Town & Country Bridge Center at 255­6613 for more information. 
Guitar and Olum Lessons: from folk guitar picking to jaZZ and blues lead guiw playing; I play all percussion styles. Call me (Rob) at 232-6555 in the evening. Fee negotiable. 
APPLICATIONS FOR EMPLOYMENT AT IRISH GARDENS ARE AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICES IN LAFORTUNE. PLEASE RETURN BY TUESDAY SEPT. 4TH. FINANCIAL AID FORMS A MUST. 
IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS IRISH GARDENS APPLICATIONS ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICES OF LAFORTUNE FOR EMPLOYMENT AT IRISH GARDENS 84-85. DEADLINE IS WEDS, SEPT 5. FINANCIAL AID FORMS A MUST. 
. . ····································:······················~·. 
LOST/FOUND I 
F"ouN·o:·iN"·~~·()F·i;IF-iR"M"Ai:iv.oN 
SATURDAY MORNING A GOLD LOOP EARRING. CALL STEVE AT 1163 TO IDENTIFY. 
································································ 
LOST: BLUE SUIT BAG WITH BROWN TRIM. SENT ON PHILA. CLUB TRUCK. OWEN MURRAY/BOB GUILDAY OR ANYONE WITH INF01PLEASE CON­TACT PAT FINNAN -426 FISHER (3079). 
MISSING: TAN & WHITE KiTTEN (FEMALE) LAST SEEN IN N.D. AVE/SO. BEND AVE (N.D. APTS) AREA ON MON­[;)AY. AUG 27. HAS LIGHT TiGER MARKINGS, STITCHES ON RIGHT SIDE OF NECK. AND BLACK PLASTIC ANTI-SCRATCH COLLAR. PLEASE 
CALL MARK AT 289-7084 WITH ANY IN­FORMATION. THANKS. 
FOR RENT 
HOUSE FOR RENT; 4-S BORM. WALKING DISTANCE TO NO. BATH AND HALF EXCEPTIONALLY CLEAN. LG LIVING AM/KITCHEN. $93.75 PER STUDENT PER MO PLUS UTILITIES. PH 287-7178 ENAD 
Nonsmok"n STUDENT TO SHARE APT: $234/M. inc. heat A!C. util. Hreplc.• lakevw., pOOl. tennis, sauna. 3 Mi.from N.D. 256-6676 Eve·s 
Furnished House-Just became available -5 bdrm. 2 bath $350 per mo. Call 277­3461 or collect 616-445-8283 
2 PEOPLE WANTED TO SHARE HOUSE ON NO AVENUE. CALL 2873299. 
STUDENT HOUSES. SEMI­FURNISHED. NEEDS PAINTING. W/FURNISH MATERIALS. CALL DAYS 272-Q100. ASK FOR MRS. OLSON. CALL EVENINGS 272·9222. 
Shr 2Bdr hse 1.5 miles to NO 277-8795 
................................................................ 
FURNISHED BASEMENT ROOM FOR TWO STUDENTS. CALL 232-6193. 
2··iieoRCiOM.j:jc;Me:$275:··;~1a:·"&·$275. 
OEPOSIT.272-6306 
WANTED 
SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar­shipS? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239­6264) 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559­$50.553/yr. Now hiring. Your area. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. R-9834. 
WANTED: GERMAN TYPIST to transpose large German index from cards to computer. Phone 288-9277. 
WANTED: Female roommate to share living expenses in furnished house. 10 minutes from campus. $150.00 includes utilities. 
239-5930 291-9644 
HELP WANTED: FULL OR PART-TIME COOK. APPLY MACRI'S DELl. UNIVER­SITY CENTER, MISHAWAKA 277-7273. 
WANTED: PERSON(S) TO SHARE RIDE AND EXPENSES FROM KALAMAZOO. Ml TO SOUTH BEND. IND DAILY. CALL DIANE 239-7560. 
Part-time telemarketers needed for day & evening shifts. Make up to $12.00 per hour. call287-9010. 
BAHAMAS STUDENT TRIP TO NAB­SAU DURING OCT. BREAK. NEED ST. MARY'S STUDENT TRIP REP. IF IN­TERESTED, CALL LAURIE 4039. 
FOR SALE 
2 NO-Purdue tix Sept. 8. "84. Calt 233­2163 or 234-5n8. 
1976 VW RABBITT For Sale. Must Sell Good Condition.895.00 or Best Offer. 684-46211n Niles.evenings. 
Olympia typewriter model XL 12 electric portable, with case. Excellent cond. $120. Call between 7 ·9 p.m. 239-7261. 

FOR SALE: Brown plaid love seat. $75.00; Velvet cel81)' green chair. $50.00. Good condition. 
239-5930· 291-9644 
For Sale Large green shag carpet, $30.00 Large blue carpet. $35.00 
C811277-0254 
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR SOME COOL PARTY SHADES OR SOMETHING TO CUT THE TROUBLESOME GLARE? IF SO. CONTACT YOUR LOCAL CLASSIC SUN GLASSES REP AT 1172. GREAT GLASSES AT GREAT PRICES! 
MAX ELL XL2 2.75 1150 

CARPET REMNANTS for sale. Three sizes. brown. Used last semester. Call 288-8461 or 233-4028 eves. 
TROPICAL PLANT SALE til Sept. 3. Three 10-in. potsfor $25 and up. South ot U.Park Mall on Grape Rd. at JMS Plaza. 
Moving. Lots of Winter clothing. Girts" 7.9. Bicycle 10 sp. Ross Eurosport $120 Obo. Books. misc. very reasonable. Call 283­3503 
TICKETS 
~··N·eea··:;4··-rix..i'oo..rHE··;.;·;ss6i:iRi · 
GAME!!!!!! CALL MARIPAT AT 2n-2581 OR 239-7471.$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
ssssssssssssssssssslsssss 
NEED ONE PURDUE STUDENT TICKET. CALLBILLAT2129. 
NEEDED: 4 GA FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR MIAMI GAME. CALL ANNE 2822 
TWO GA AIR FORCE TICKETS NEEDED. CALL 808 AT 272-61103. 
HELP!!! I need 1 ticket for the Purdue game. If you have one or know someone who does PLEASE let me know! Call Susan at 4420 
WANTED..WANTED N.D.· P.U. FB Tick­ets 1 or 2(together) call1797 
Needed: 1 or2 Purdue tix; Mark x1154 
HELP! NEED 1 STUDENT PURDUE 
TICKET. CALL TRACY AT 277-7232. 
.....................................,............................ 
Need 4 to 6 Colorado tickets. Will buy or trade for Air Force. Miami or S.C. tickets. Call1529 
.............................. 
NEED ONLY 1 TICKET FOR PURDUE GAME CALL 2n-4677 AL $$$ 
...................................... 
HELP! MY LITTLE BROTHER IS COM­ING All THE WAY FROM SACRAMENTO TO SEE THE NO ­COLORADO GAME. BUT I'LL NEED A TICKET. CALL DENISE AT 1330. 
V31 NEED GA TIXS FOR PURDUE & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
........................................................... 
NEED TICKETS TO ANY NO HOME GAME CALL JOHN 3335. 
........................................................ 
NEED 5 TIX FOR AIRFORCE $$$ call SMC5264 
PERSONALS 
Pandora'a welcomes back students. We can help you with all your school needs. Textbooks at 25 percent oH. paperbacks. reference materials. posters for yOur room. We're at 937 South Bend Avenue. Stop In and save big. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-200 stu­dent loans Due in 30 Days 1I Interest Open 11 :30-12:30 M-F Basement LaFortune 
-JOHN HEASL Y, please call Dan or Sarah at The Observer. We need to set up a copy editing schedule but don't have your oft-campus phone number. Please call today. Thanks. 
The ObseiVer Is accepting applications for the position of design editor. Submit a letter detailing your layout experience. Deadline: 5 p.m. Friday, Aug. 31. For more information, contact Margaret at the LaFortune oHice. 
BASH!! NO APTS!! FRIDAY!! 
I KNOW I PROMISED TIM. BUT I JUST CANT HELP IT... HEY ALL YOU SINGLE GOOD LOOKING GIRLS ARE YOU SEKING THAT MISTER RIGHT? CALL TIM FALLON AND HE CAN TELL YOU 
HOW TO CONTACT DAVE. 
DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU GET WHEN YOU CROSS A CHEG AND A EE? A STUDENT THAT IS TOO LAZY TO COPY. 
....................... 
NO MORE WALLSIII 

My love... where are you? 
EILEEN. Happy Birthday babe!! How·s this for attention? Little better than last year, huh!? Hope it's a great one-you deserve it. Even though you sun aren't normal. I wouldn't trade you for anything (except maybe Ber1s!) I love you lots­that's no line honey!! Stevo 
LETTUCE THANK YOU: ""Taste ot Notre Dame·· was great Congrats. Now, about those wells... 
ATTENTION SENIORs­REGISTRATION FOR SENIOR INFOR­MAL BEGINS IN SIX DAYS. DON'T MISS THE CUBS AND BEARS GAMES!!! 
MO HAPPY 21 LIVE IT UP MBO 
SENIOR CLASS LUAU TONIGHT 8:30 at SMC $5.50 per person FOOD AND DRINKS INCLUDED BE THERE 
GOOFBALL. The sea air has done gOOd things lor you. It was good to see you again. Don't forget the bet I lost You still have to think up something typically clever to even the score. P.S. You know you·reright. guiUbleisn"t in the dictionary. 
Long ago. it must be; I have a photograph. Pre&eiVe your memories; They're all that's left you. 
-Simon and Garfunkel 
The Observer Friday, August 31, 1984 -page 9 
Mess 
continuedfrom page 12 
by the CFA's contract with ABC and ESPN. The contract calls for $12 mil­lion from ABC, 25 percent of which is to he split among all the CFA mem­bers and the rest to represent the television appearance money, and another $9.3 million from ESPN. The deal is not terrible for Notre Dame, hut the money is not nearly as great as in the pao;t. 
Where ND comes out ahead, though, is in the syndication of most ofits games that are not on ABC and ESPN. Most schools joined regional packages that were made by the con­ference. 'lbe money that they make on these regional deals is, in most 
cases, not nearly enough to offset the loss of money from the major network contracts. 
'Ibis does not hold true for Notre Dame, though. because a regional telecast for the Irish is almost the same as a national telecast. All the various syndicators realized that the easiest team to sell is Notre Dame and made offers for the rights to NO telecasts. 
Notre Dame officials have not made public what they were offered, but a popular rumor was that super­station WTBS had offered $2 million a game. lbis offer was never con­firmed hut, according to Heisler, "just about everybody made us an offer." 
An agreement wa<; finally made between Notre Dame and TCS/Metrosports, which has been televising Irish football and basket­ball in recent years. 'Jbe Irish were 
part of a 12-game package that in­
cluded other independents like 
Penn State, West Virginia, Temple, 
and Rutgers. 
"We have a seven-year working 
relationship with Metrosports and it 
has been a mutually-beneficial asso­
ciation," said Corrigan when the 
deal was made. "It was only logical 
that we let them handle any live tele­
vision football games that we might 
be able to do this season." 
The money figures have not been released, but it is reasonable to assume that they are in the three­digit range per game. The schedule has not been finalized, but it appears that three Irish games will appear live nationally on Metrosports. 
The entire Notre Dame football television schedule is still very un­certain, despite the fact that there is only a week until the season opener. One reason is that ABC and ESPN have not decided what games to show after September. Because of this, Metrosports has not been able to finalize its schedule. 
Another reason is that Notre Dame plays more Big Ten (Purdue, Michigan State) and Pac-I0 (Southern Cal) opponents than any other CFA team. These crossover games arc a major problem and have resulted in Notre Dame being named in a suit as co-conspirator with Nehra'ika, the CFA, and ABC­ESPN. '!be CFA's agreement with 
ABC states that ESPN and ABC have purchased exclusivity to the CFA games during the late-afternoon and evening periods. lbus, CBS, which has an agreement with the Big Ten­Pac I 0, cannot televise Notre Dame­USC on national television. That is up in the air, though, pending the 

................................................................................................ 
VAN LINES 
Weekend Bus Service 

Van Lines will take you off-campus to 
University Park Mall Town & Country Mall and various restaurants 
on 
Friday and Saturday evenings 

Departs from Main-Circle -Grotto -SMC Holy Cross hourly from 6 p.m. Friday and 4 p.m. Saturday. 50' round trip-pay as you get on the bus. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIHHH..IIIII..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIII
.........•........•.........••,
• ~t:Y.ME NOTRe~ ~b>\ME~t:Y.ME e SNNr MAA.YS ~~S ~MAA.'ISSNHr MAR.'IS e 
IH~ IH~ IHEI\1R&' IH~ : 

A.UblTION5 
open to all students 
• 
no expenence necessary 
AUGUST 31 • • •• •• • •• • • •7:00pm LITTIE THEATRE -----SAINT MARY'S 
• 
• 

Over 20 roles for men & women; technical • • • •positions available sign up at auditions 
• Scripts on loan from theatre dept offices • 
•• do eomethlng daring •• 
court ruling (see related story). 
All that is certain is that it will not be known who will televise a game, and when, until shortly before the game. There are just too many ques­tions that remain. 
ABC gets first crack at each game, but it is waiting to announce its schedule. If ABC does not take the game, ESPN gets the next option. Ifit does take the game, it will be a night game. If not, then Metrosports can try to sell the game to stations around the country for the early time slot. If Metrosports already has a game scheduled, Notre Dame can then try to sell the game to another syndicator like the Katz Network. 
It definitely is confusing, but we can make a reasonable guess about the coming schedule. 
Purdue-Live only on WNDU-TV ( Ch. I6). Notre Dame asked permis­sion for Metrosports to televise it na­tionally, but Purdue, a Big Ten member, refused because it would conflict with the teleca~t of another Big Ten matchup. The bad feelings between the Big Ten and CFA did not help. 
Michigan Slate -Same as Purdue. 
Colorado -Probably live only on WNDU unless a deal can be made 
with  another  syndicator.  
Metrosports  already  has  another  
game scheduled.  

Missouri -Nationally telecast by ABC in the late-afternoon time slot. 
Miami -Probably live nationally on ESPN, which would make it a night game. ABC could be inter­ested, but NO probably will not be on ABC two weeks in a row. 
Air Force -Live nationally on Metrosports. The game will start at 
11:20 a.m. so that it fits the early time slot in the East. South Carolina -Same as Air Force. 
L.S.U.-CouldbeonABCorESPN. If neither takes it, some syndicator probably will. 
Navy -:-Live nationally on Metrosports. The game will start at I2:20 a.m. 
PennState -Could be on ABC or ESPN. Same situation as LSU game. 
U.S.C. -Very much in doubt be­cause ofCBS suit (see related story). 
.....-........ .... ...... 

TV stipulations cause suit against ND, others 
When the College Football Association made its agreement with ABC and ESPN, one ofthe stipulations was that no CFA team could be televised by another station in the late-afternoon and evening time slots. This agreement meant that CBS, which had agreed to televise Big Ten and Pac-IO games in these time slots, could not televise appealinggames involving a CFA team and a Big Ten or Pac-t0 team. 
There are two games that are affected by the CFA-ABC agreement. One is the Sept 22 Nebraska at UCLA game and the other is the Nov. 24 Notre Dame-Southern Cal matchup in Los Angeles. According to the CFA agreement, these games cannot be shown nationally by CBS because Nebraska and Notre Dame are members ofthe CFA. 
The Big Ten, Pac-10, USC and UCLA have filed suit against ABC, however, claiming that the broadcasting company violated antitrust laws in prohibiting CFA teams from appearing on other networks. ESPN (which is a subsidiary of ABC), the CFA, Nebraska and Notre Dame have been named as co-conspirators in the case. 
The suit contends that the reduced visibility that is caused by the absence of national television coverage could lessen financial sup­port for the schools and hurt recruiting. The plaintiffs claim in a 39-page brief that "all such (television) arrangements are the prerogative ofthe home team." They are seeking not onJy injunctive relief (a court injunction that allows the games to be broadcast by CBS), but also actual and punitive damages. 
The CFA contends that the NCAA practice has been that the home team cannot sell television rights without consent of the visiting team. 
"The practice by NCAA schools has been that the consent ofboth teams is absolutely necessary for a telecast," says Dr. Martin Mas­sengale, the Chancellor of the University of Nebraska. Massengale points to a meeting of the NCAA membership on july IO of this year where it was decided that "no member institution should be obligated to televise any ofits games, home or away." 
CFA officials point out that exclusivity is standard practice in the television industry, usingABC's coverage ofthe Olympics and NBC's coverage ofthe Rose Bowl as examples. 
Perhaps the most surprising aspect of the suit is that the plaintiffs are asking for damages from all the dcfendents, including Notre Dame and Nebraska. 
The Big Ten and Pac-1 0 claim that they made every effort to reach a compromise, but were unsuccessful. However, the CFA disagrees, claiming that it was the two conferences that turned down the com­promise. 
As far as Notre Dame is concerned, it is in a unique position. If it loses the case, it would receive payment for appearing on CBS's na­tional telecast. It may also have to pay damages, though. If Notre Dame wins, the NO-Southern Cal game will probably be telecast live onJy on WNDU-TV ( Ch. 16) in South Bend. 
Lendl, all 
.GARRET ELECTRONICS .. 
1~ We repair all makes of stereos and VCRs ·~ We sell all makes of stylii (needles) 
other seeds 
•t33:18 Mi~_ha~.~ka ~ve. ....... .... 23~:3739 .•~ d •
••~•••:.•••;•••;•••:••..:...~.~:. a vance In 
Seniors Interested in Law School 
f U.S. Open 
Don't Miss the 
: 
Associated Press
• 
NEW YORK -Ivan Lend! beat back
iPRE-LAW SOCIETY MEETING : 
i Monday, September 3 ~ 
7:00 Library Auditorium ;
t•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
JOIN UP e JOIN UP e JOIN UP • JOIN UP e JOIN UP • JOIN UP • JOIN UP 
Clubs and Organizations: 
ACTMTIES NIGHT 
Monday, September 3 Stepan Center 7:00-11:00 p.m. 
ALL CLUBS & ORGANIZATIONS INTERESTED IN HAVING A TABLE AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT MUST SIGN UP IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, 1st FLOOR LAFORTUNE, BY FRIDAY AUGUST 31, 
4:00p.m. 

NIOr e dn NIOr e dn NIOr e •tn NIOr e dn N:Or • dn NIOr • dn NIOr • dn 
the strong challenge of South Africa's Eddie Edwards last night and moved into the third round of the $2.55 million U.S. Open Tennis Championships. 
Also advancing at the National Tennis Center were all of the other seeds who saw action, including the top three women -Martina Nav­ratilova, Chris Evert lloyd, and Hana Mandlikova . 
Lendl, who captured his first Grand Slam title earlier this year by defeating John McEnroe in the final of the French Open, dropped the opening set and was forced to a tie­breaker in the second, before finally overcoming his South African op­ponent 3-6, 7-6, 6-3, 6-l. 
Uoyd raced past Terry Holladay 6­
1, 6-I; Navratilova stopped Andrea 
Leand 6-4, 6-2, and Mandllkova 
ousted Denmark's Tine Scheuer­
Larsen 6-2, 6-0 . 

Other seeds moving into the third round in the men's draw included No.4 Mats Wilander ofSweden, No . 5 Andres Gomez of Ecuador, No.8 Aaron Krickstein, No. I 0 Eliot Teltscher, No. 12 Vitas Gerulaitis, No. I4 Anders)arryd ofSweden, and No. 1 5 Pat Cash ofAustralia . 
In the women's draw, other seeded winners included No. 7 Zina Garrison, No. 12 Bonnie Gadusek, No. 14 Carling Bassett of Canada, and No. 16 Andrea Temesvari of Hungary . 
The Observer Friday, August 31, 1984 -page 10 
Backers 
continuedfrompage 12 
coach Bishop Harris is the emer­gence of freshman Cedric Figaro. Figaro, a 6-3, 235-pounder, was a member of the prep all-America teams chosen by Parade, Adidas/Scholastic Coach, and USA Today. His speed and aggressive style ofplay have put him in conten­tion for a position this fall. 
"You need an excellent athlete to play an outside linebacker position," offers Harris. "The player must readily diagnose the situation, beag­gressive, and be quick. 
"I'm very happy with the progress our men have made. Mike Larkin has done well so far adapting to his posi­tion change from the spring, and Cedirc Figaro has handled his job well as a freshmen." 
In his 16th season as a member of the Notre Dame coaching staff, Coach George Kelly is pleased with the way the inside linebacking troops are coming along. 
Heading the list are returning starters Tony Furjanic, a junior, and sophomore Mike Kovaleski. Both have proven to be tough competi­tors at the inside spots. 
Furjanic, 6-2, 231 pounds, and Notre Dame's most valuable defen­sive player in the liberty Bowl, led the Irish in tackles in 1983. Furjanic wrestled down opponents 142 times last season while recording 49 assists. 
He has the reputation of being an extremely steady and physical player who has made numerous big plays for the Irish, somewhat similar to the style of former Notre Dame all-American Bob Crable. 
Also returning to team up with Furjanic is Kovaleski, 6-2, 218 
You need an excellent athlete to play an outside linebacker position. The player must readily diagnose the situation, be aggressive, and be quick. 
-Bishop Harris 
pounds. With the injury of Larkin last August, Kovaleski came on strong as a rookie. Playing more minutes than any other freshman on defense, Kovaleski made an impres­sive first appearance against Purdue in 1983. 
Finishing as the second leading tackler of that game with eight, Kovaleski's aggressive style ·earned him the starting job for the remainder of the season, until a sprained ankle put him out ofaction for the final two regular season games. 
Kelly is also very pleased with the showing of his second team. Retur­nees John McCabe and Ron Weis­senhofer, both juniors, lend depth to the linebacking slot. Although McCabe, 6-3, 228 pounds, did not see any varsity action in 1983, his hard work in both spring and fall practice sessions have certainly made the coaches take note of his development. 
Weissenhofer, 6-3, 227 pounds, comes back after an injury that sidelined him for the '83 season and drills last spring. Weissenhofer is a highly-touted inside linebacker who might have filled Larkin's space had he not himself broken his wrist. Once again, his hard work and expe­rience has propelled him to the number-two spot behind Kovaleski. 
Because of the efforts of McCabe and Weissenhofer, the freshmen prospects have had to work that much harder, but Kelly is satisfied with their progress. Wesly Pritchett, 6-5, 210 pounds, and Darrel Gordon, 6-3, 190 pounds, both received Adidas/Scholasttc Coach prep All­American status and are very promising prospects for the Irish de­fensive future. 
Rounding out the rookies is some­one who is new to the Notre Dame scene but whose last name is not. Matt Dingens, a first-team pick on the USA Today prep All-America squad, is the younger brother of Irish junior defensive tackle Greg Dingens. 

"Our players are young and have a long way to go," comments Kelly, "but they have experience, and ex­perience at the linebacking position is invaluable. Sometimes experience 
Poll 
continued from page 12 
to award points on the basis of a 
team's position in each poll. For in­
stance, a No. 1 spot was 20 points, 
No. 2 was 19 points, and so on. The 
No. 20 spot was, therefore, worth 
one point. 
Ironically, the team that came out 
on top, Clemson, cannot evengo to a 
bowl game this year because it is on 
probation. Danny Ford's Tigers 
could be the only team in the nation 
to go undefeated because they have 
one of the easiest schedules in the 
nation. But, without a trip to a bowl 
game, will it be good enough? 
The key to Clemson's No. 1 finish 
was the fact that all 15 polls put the 
Tigers among the top ten teams. No 
other school could say the same. 
Even the No. 2 team, Nebraska, 
finished out of the top ten in three 
polls. 
The No. 3 team, Auburn, finished 
with the most No. 1 spots, six, but 
some low finishes kept the Tigers 
well out of the No. 1 spot. The polls 
were all taken before Auburn's 20­outshines ability because it is such a demanding position... it is the key to a defense." 
Certainly with the returning letter winners and a fine crop offreshmen on the Irish roster, coaches Kelly and Harris have an exciting combi­nation of experience and ability to lead the Irish defense in I 984. 
18 loss to defending national cham­
pion Miami earlier this week. 
The other teams that received No. 
1 consideration were Clemson ( 1 ), 
Nebraska ( 1 ), Texas ( 1 ), UCLA ( 2 ), 
Arizona State (2) and Notre Dame 
(2). 

As for the Irish, Gerry Faust's squad finished the composite poll in the No. 9 spot. Besides the two No. I rankings, the Irish were left com­pletely out ofone poll and picked up rankings ranging from No. 3 to No. 
20. Obviously past performance has made some pollsters leery ofpicking NO too high despite the abundance of talent on the squad. The Sporting News, which picked Notre Dame No. I last year, put the Irish at No. 13 this year. On the other hand, Gary Austin, who was about the only one who did not even rank the Irish last year, has picked the Irish as the team to beat. 
In all, 34 teams received at least one point, including Memphis State, which was picked 20th by one poll. Five of this year's Irish opponents made the list, although none was as highly-rated. Miami is No. I I, Penn State No. 14, Missouri No. 26, USC No. 27, and LSU No. 28. 
The Observer Composite Football Poll 
c: 
Ill 
-~ 
:; 
(/) Q) 
:i ~ 
.£i 
E 
iii :::> 
Q; 
:a
:c
~ 
a. 
~ Ill 
L 0 Cii 
~ 
Q) 
J:l
t "' 
t 



~4(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------F-ri_d.ay_._A_u_gu_s_t_3_1_,1_9_8_4___
P_a_g_e_l_l 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 

ANP 111Ke 7Ift 

MK. Jf!CK50N,
011 WI~IJIJP..-' 
.t!K..f!CK501J... mH6R HlfU' JINP 
AKEfi/NNIN6
MAY/Je THe:f(£ IS 
I «JN'T-· fJ//Y 5EVCRI" WITH W-1 ANP WI(JIIJR,
50Mf1HIN<7 10(.1 
11KJIJSANP 10NS 
1'1? t.IK(10
I 


CAN ClO FOR ME. 
I OF SMOK£1? FRENCH 

SEE AFEW SEQUIN~ ON 
TffiJSt ftJCI<S N€XT TIME. 
\ 
Gary Larson 





Campus 
Aug.31 
•7 
p.m. -Officer's Meeting, Ground Zero, Center for Social Concerns, Room 2. 

•7:30p.m.-FUm, 
"The Return of Martin Guerre," Annenberg Auditorium. 


Sept. I 
• 7 p.m. and 9: I 5 p.m. -Film, "Trading Places," Car­roll Hall · Saint Mary's. 
TV Tonight 
Friday, Aug. 31 
6:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9:00p.m. 10:00p.m. 
10:30p.m. ll:OOp.m. 
11:30p.m. 16 
16. 22 
16 22 
16 22 
16 22 46 
46 
22 46 
16 22 46 
16 22 
22 46 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News 
M
0 A0 S0 H Family Feud 
The Master Dukes of Hazzard 
Movie OfThe Week Dallas Lester Sumrall Teaching 
Words of Life 
Falcon Crest Today With Lester Sumrall 
NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness Jimmy Swaggart Weekly 
Tonight Show 
U.S. Open Highlights 
CBS Late Movie -Hell River Kenneth Copeland Believer's Con­ventlon 
Friday Night Videos 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 40 Confined at this DOWN 25 Clear sky place 26 Cubic meter
1 Encrust 1 Fish 
41 Smash 27 Double curve

5 Book of maps 2 Diva's offering 10 Gentle 3 Seaweed 
28 Shaping42 Comp. pt. 
machine

14 City on the Oka 4 Run out
43 Lock of hair 30 Former Ger.

15 Free 44 Torme or Blanc 5 Stranger 
-
Welcomes You Back!! 
Now open 'til 3 a.m.l 
Cocktail Party G&Ts and Imports special from 5-8 
open 'til 3 a.m. 
49 Erato, Clio et al. 54 Roseor Maravich 

50-Raton 55 "One -land"
51 -patriat~ 56 Religious group
52 US cartoonist 

53 Jannings or 59 Desert Ludwig efflorescence 
© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 8/31/84All Rights Reserved 
Monty Python's 
•
Life of Brian 
Aug. 31 7, 9, 11 
•
Engineering Aud. $1.00 


16 Unattractive 17 Break down 19 Grain husk 20 Favorite 22 Source of light 23 Newspaper 
section 24 Pro votes 27 Shade tree 29 Prank 33 Lawyer: abbr. 34 Cute -button 35 Collection of 
hives 
36 Small quahog 
£0~rnu®~ §~ 
Friday 

2 FORMS OF ID REQUIRED 
45 Evert in tennis 47 Pierre's head 
49 ..._culpa 
50 Small tropical country 
57 Sharif or Bradley 
58 Insecticide 
60 Expense 61 Bring together 62 Proficient 63 Part of B.A. 64 Shoe parts 65 Legend 6 Commotion 7 Dawdle 8 "Every cloud 
engenders not-" 9 "-evil" 10 Slower than 
sound 11 Golliwogg 12 Excoriate 
13 Eng. river 
18 Extra 21 Warehouse 24 Pleasure craft 


coin: var. 31 Hamadan 
resident 32 Flower clusters 34 Author Rand 35 Colony dweller 37 Commences 
again 38 Ascended 39 Lubricate 44 Flnewool 45 Philippine 
island 46 Eng. poet 48 Slope of rock 
debris 

Friday, August 31, 1984 -page 12
S~orts 
Irish go through final scrimmage before Purdue 

Larkin suffers knee injury; to have surgery 
minated the march with a one-yard downs were badly overthrown.
By TIIERON ROBERTS 

dive for the touchdown. Tight end Freshman Tim Brown was the star
Sports Writer 

Mark Bavaro also contributed a 27-of the receiving corps during the yard reception from quarterback scrimmage, grabbing three catches
Some things looked crisp, but the mistakes still lingered for the Notre 

Steve Beuerlein, displaying some for 108 yards, including a very nifty Dame football team as it went 
powerful running after catching the grab of a Scott Grooms aerial for 36 ball. yards and a touchdown.
through the final full scrimmage 
before meeting Purdue next Satur­

The number one defense had a After the first three series, Pinkett day. field day against the prep offense, left the lineup to enable the other "I was pleased that we looked 
holding it to negative 13 yards total 
offense. Linebackers Larkin, Cedric see CRISP, page 8 
crisp today, a lot more crisp than last 
Saturday's scrimmage," Head Coach 

Figero and Dave Butler each regis­
tered sacks, and Eric Dorsey, Wally Gerry Faust said. "The kids were 
making some good hits out there." 

Kleine and Tony Furjanic each gar­A lot of mistakes did occur, 
nered a tackle for a loss. though, as some first and second 
"Our defense looked really good," team players are nursing slight injur­
Faust said. "They have increased ies and viewed the action from the 
their level of aggressiveness." sidelines while players deeper in the 
Sophomore safety James Bobb, fil­depth charts filled their positions. 
ling in for Joe Johnson, grabbed an However, those injuries took a interception offered by Terry back seat to the potentially major 
Andrysiak and returned it 40 yards. blow the Irish defense was dealt 
Classmate Marv Spence added an­halfway through the two-hour 
other, picking off a deep pass from scrimmage. 
Tom Byrne just before the end ofthe 
half.
Senior Mike Larkin suffered an in­jury to ligaments in his knee while 

Two plays after the Bobb inter­ception, Pinkett scampered around
making a tackle. Larkin was carried end for nine yards and his s.econd
off the field, but the seriousness of touchdown.
the injury was not immediately 
known. He is supposed to undergo 

Everything did not go as smoothly surgery today and it is possible that 
for the Irish offense as it did for the he will miss the entire season. defense, as a 37-yard pass to Joe The injury is especially dishear­
Howard for a touchdown was called tening because Larkin had to miss 
back and two passes for sure touch-the entire 1983 sea~on after break­ing his left arm August 29 in practice. Big things have been ex­
Notre Dame ninth 
pected from Larkin ever since he had the second highest number of tackles in 1982, with 110 -just three 

in composite poll 
behind leader Mark Zavagnin. The scrimmage started off well, 

A chart ofthe various polls can be found on page 10. 
with the number one offensive unit 
Senior tri-captain Mike Goltc beads up a young, but 
marching 74 yards in 10 plays 

Pre-season college football polls are generally not much more
experienced, linebacktng corps this year. Goltc will have an even 
against the team ofprep players who 

than educated guesses, whether the poll is compiled by a sports
bigger burden on his broad shoulders now because ofan injury 
represented Purdue and its style of 

magazine, a group of college football coaches or a gamblers' maga­
yesterday to Mike Larkin. Details of that injury, along with a 
play. The drive was primarily pitch­

zine. Still, you can get a good idea of what to expect during the
summary of yesterday's scrimmage, can be found in Theron 
the-ball-to-Pinkett, as Allen Pinkett 

season by comparing the various polls. 
Roberts' story on this page. Also on this page, Trlsb Sulltvan 
racked up 43 yards on the ground in 

The Observer has done just this by gathering together 1 5 major 
profiles the 1984 Notre Dame linebackers. 
eight tries, and it was he who cul­

pre-season polls, ranging from theAssociated Press picks, which are 
probably the best-known, to the picks ofoddsmaker Gary Austin. 
Viewing schedule up in air The comparison ofthese polls shows one thing in particular -the top spot in the country is very much up in the air. Unlike last year when Nebraska dominated nearly every poll, seven different teams have been picked to take the big prize by at least one poll.
Irish get tangled in television mess 


Editor's note: This is the final part of a three-part report on the repercussions ofthe Supreme Court ruling that the NC4A's control of collegefootball television coverage is {/legal. 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Editor 
When it became apparent this summer that the NCAA television plan for college football was going to be ruled in violation ofantitrust laws by the Supreme Court, speculation about the financial repercussions of the decision was rampant. 
It was generally agreed that most schools would not be pulling in the kind of television money they had in the past. Most people believed, though, that a few schools would make a killing in the open market. 
Notre Dame was one of those 

schools. After all, ifthere was such a 
thing as "America's Team," Notre 
Dame was it. No other school draws 
as much national attention. Whether 
you were in New England, Alaska or 
Texas, you would find a huge group 
ofdiehard Irish fans -or diehard Irish 
parent that even Notre Dame could 
not untangle itself from the politics 
that are worsening the situation. 
"I think people thought we were 
going to do a lot better (financially) 
than we actually are," says John 
Heisler, Notre Dame's associate 
sports information director. 
This does not mean that Notre 
Dame is going to suffer tremen­
dously now that the networks are 
not paying as much as last year -in 
fact the Irish should be one of the 
few teams that make more this year 
than last -but it will not be pulling in 
the millions that some had forecast. 
Notre Dame, as one of the more active members of the College Foot­ball Association, has been restricted by the politics involved . in the 

College Football on TV 

In order to decide who received the most attention, we decided allow one of Its teams to play ND on 
see POLL, page 10 
live national television because the game would be competing with an­other CFA contest. The Big Ten-Pac 10, which only has 20 teams to pick 

Irish line backing corps 
from, might allow the Notre Dame­USC game to be televised, but when politics are involved, even that 

remains outstanding 
minor concession would be in doubt. By TRISH SULLIVAN coaches have devised their own Instead, Notre Dame must abide Sports Writer Irish shift. Back after an injury last 
see MESS, page 9 
Colorado Tickets Available 
The athletic department has announced that a large number of general admission tickets for the September 22 Notre Dame­Colorado game' in Notre Dame Stadium will go on sale to the general public this Monday mor­ning. 
The tickets were originally part of Colorado's allotment for the game. However, the school could not sell all of the allocated 
tickets  and  returned  many  of  
them.  
People wishing  to  purchase  

the SI6 tickets can buy them Monday at Gate 10 of the ACC, beginning at 9 a.m. 

season, senior Mike Larkin, 6-1, 221 
Patience, discipline, and size. pounds, found himself playing three key ingredients in the making outside linebacker midway through a capable linebacker. spring practice. In the 1982 cam­
Notre Dame certainly has the paign Larkin was the second leading right formula year in and year out, as tackler, dragging down opponents it produces some outstanding 110 times while starting all 11 players at that position, and this games. Larkin possesses outstanding years' linebacking corps is no excep­quickness and aggressiveness, as tion. evidenced by his numerous excur­
Young, but experienced, the Irish sions into opposing offensive back­have four very qualified players re­fields. Unfortunately, an injury has turning to fill these most difficult de­once again sidelined him. fensive positions. The corps has Backing up Golic and Larkin in been depleted by injuries, the latest their positions have been sopho­yesterday to Mike Larkin, but the more Robert Banks and freshman depth should prove adequate. Cedric Figaro. Now, with little more 
Senior captain Mike Golic at 6-5, than a week to prepare for the 257 pounds, returns after receiving Purdue opener, Banks finds himself Associated Press All-America starting in Larkin's spot. recognition as a junior. He com­Banks, 6-5, 234 pounds, spent the pleted the 1983 season with 59 majority of 1983 as Golic's replace­tackles, four sacks, and led the team ment, before having to fill in at the with stops for minus yards with 10. inside spot for the injured Mike Golic is a very enthusiastic player Kovaleski. Banks boasts an impres­with a determined attitude, who can sive combination of strength and boast tremendous quickness for his quickness and has a keen instinct to size, and he will be utilized at the get to the football. outside linebacker position. A pleasant suprise for first-year 
To fill the void left by the loss of Rick Naylor to graduation, the 
see BACKERS, page 10 
haters. 
Notre Dame is a television net· work's dream. Even when the Irish are doing poorly, they usually draw one ofthe largest viewing audiences of the year. Therefore, it seemed ob­vious that, when the bids went out, Notre Dame was going to get a more lucrative contract than anybody. 
But, In this new confused world of college football, It has become ap­dispute between the CFA and a coal­ition of the Big Ten and Pacific-10 conferences. Athletic Director Gene Corrigan had no choice but to agree to stick by whatever contracts the CFAsigned. 
If Notre Dame had jumped ship and tried to strike a deal on its own, It would have found itself on a deserted island. The CFA would not 







