Irish Extra -page 9 
---------------------..,-------------------------------------------------­

VOL XIX, NO. 3 7 tilt: itHiqwndent ..,tulkllt lll'\\..,paper "l·ning rwtn danK and ..,aint man·._ FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1984 

So, what's your major? 
john Murphy and]oanie Giblin seem to be hit· ttng it off well at last night's Beer Garden bebtnd Made/eva Hall at Saint Mary's. This event closed 

Zahn resigns chair of judicial council 
By BOB MUSSELMAN 
News Staff 
Joe Zahn, student body judicial 
coordinator, announced his resigna­
tion in a briefmeeting of theJudicial 
Council last night. 
He submitted his letter ofresigna­tion yesterday afternoon to the stu­dent government offices. Addressed to the "Members ofthe Notre Dame Community," the letter reads: "Due to Philosophical rea1)ons 1 am resign­ing from the position of Student Body JudiLiaiCoordinator effective immediately." 
Zahn's handling ofJudicial Coun­cil affairs this year has received some criticism. An editorial in the Sept. 14 issue of Tbe Observer criticized his motives and overall handling of]udi­cial Council mattt-rs. 
Asked ifthis or other criticisms in­fluenced his decision, Zahn said the editorial was "another article· showing Bob 'the clown' Vonder­heide's circus mentality." Vonder­heide is t:ditor-in·l hief of The 
Observer. 
Zahn said that neither the admin­
istration nor student government in­
fluenced his decision. 
Zahn was reluctant to discuss 
specific reasons for his resignation, 
but hinted at a comeback next year: 
"I'll return next year in a position 
where I'll have more say in the day· 
to-day operations ofstudent govern­
ment." 
After his announcement, Zahn 
suggested the council elect a new 
coordinator "immediately" and 
nominated council member Bill Ber­
gamo ofCavanaugh Hall. 
Bergamo was elected unani­
mously. 
Bergamo told the council he would only be able to serve until his graduation in December. Pasquerilla West representative Laura McKnight suggested that an assistant be elected who would serve as co­ordinator next semester. A decision on this mauer was postponed to a later meeting. 
He expressed a commitment to complete the programs that the council had started. 

Hunger Coalition plans Student-run store is a possibility 
teleconference Oct. 16 
By TERRY BLAND don't want to get involved." will be presented to the Student 
StaffReporter Moran contends there is a big Senate. If passed, it will then be Washington University in Washing­
By CINDY RAUCKHORST difference between the kinds of brought before the Student Ac­
News Staff ton, D.C. A recent survey shows a items carried by the bookstore tivities Board. Decision on the The purpose of the event is to 
majority of Notre Dame students and the kind to be carried in the proposal will probably be in the Along with 330 organizations celebrate the anniversary of the 
surveyed favor opening a general general store. middle of November. across the country, the Notre Dame Food and Agricultural Organization store on campus as an alternative If student government ap­The committee has also sur­of the United Nations. The emphasis
World Hunger Coalition will partici­to the bookstore. proves of the store proposal, it veyed colleges across the pate in the National World Food Day of the teleconference for students The proposed store would will stock generic products or country as to whether they main­
Teleconference on Tuesday, Oct. will be education about today's supply items oflower quality, but products slightly higher in tain student-operated general 
16. world hunger crisis, WHC member 
at a considerably lower price, quality than generic, said stores. Harvard and M.I.T. are In accordance with WHC goals to Bill Jordan said. 
than the Hammes Bookstore, said Browne. among schools operating such increase student awareness of "Trying to bring the issue closer 
Pat Browne, general store com­He added that the proposal businesses. hunger-related problems, the group to students is a terribly difficult 
mittee chairman. 
has agreed to organize and co­thing. Starving people in Africa are 
Of 172 students surveyed, 1 52, sponsor the three-hour presentation so abstract, so far away from our 
or 88.4 percent, said they were in at Notre Dame. Students and faculty own lives. Hopefully, participation 
favor of the new store. Om­from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's by students will help them to 
budsman conducted the survey, are invited to attend. become more concerned and 
distributing it in 1 1 dorms; eightFrom 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Cen· aware," he said. 
men's dorms and three women's ter for Continuing Education, Notre The teleconference will have 
dorms. 
Dame will participate in the three parts. The first hour will con­
"We asked the bookstore to nationwide teleconference, 
see FOOD DAY, page 5 sell some oftheir items at cost or 
originating via satellite from Geor~e below cost," said Browne. "The reason they could do this is the bookstore makes a profit. We said
Bush, Ferraro debate covers 
what they should do with this profit is to put it into lowering prices."

economy, leadership ability 
He added that the bookstore Associated Press on most issues, and said "the presi­would not sell at or below cost dent turned it (the nation) around because it is a bad business 
PHILADELPHIA · George Bush and I've been with him every step of practice. said last night he's a supporter of the way." Higher bookstore prices result President Reagan's economic pro­"I believe firmly in his leadership. from the purchasing of items in gram, "every step of the way," be· He's really turned this country smaller quantities than stores like cause "it's brought America back." around," Bush said in a firm defense Hooks, Osco's, and Thornburg's, Geraldine Ferraro retorted in the of the man whose -own debate per· said Browne. .. vice presidential debale that Bush formance last Sunday worried his Hall representatives con­once called that pl"t!'",m "voodoo supporters and provided a boost for ducted another survey, visiting economics. and it was anlllt i... the nemocrats. area stores to compare prices on 
"I can make the hard decisions"' Hush said Ferraro disagreed with 23 different items. The survey required in high political offi• e Fer­Mondale in several issues, including showed significant differences in raro df'dan~d in lht. opening rax brt:ak~ for parents of private price range, said Browne. moments of the 90-minute televised school ..;tudents and school busing. Upon completing the survey, confrontation. Hush attacked Mondale the committee approached 
1br Obsrrvrr/Carol Gain

"I have enough experience to see repeate(11) in the opening moments bookstore management with the 

the problems, address them," said of the debate, at one point holding idea of a competing store. 
•':fark Bomber, a Howard junior, shops for detergent in the

Ferraro, the first woman to run for his arms aloft as he said, "Contrary to Brother Conan Moran, 
Hammes Bookstore. He may nothave to spendas mucb to cure 'ring 

national office on a major party Mr. Mondale's · I'd better be careful· bookstore manager, said he "was 
arou1uJ the collar' if a proposal for a student-operated general

ticket. contrary to Mr. Mondalc:'s just not really intt'rested in the type 
store is put into effect. Story at left-

Bush said there was little differ­ofsurvey they conducted. I really 
see DEBATE, page 3 

ence between himself and Reagan 
-


The Observer Friday, October 12, 1984 -page 2 

White women are more concerned 
about diet and weight control than white men or blacks, but black men are more likely to exercise regularly. Those were among the findings ofa University ofMaryland study ofsex and race differences in dieting and exercise among college students. Men saw eating and exercise as independent activities, while women linked the two as a means toward the goal ofgaining the right body type. ·The Obseroer 

' . I· 

Of Interest 
The Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign of 

St. Joseph's County will hold a film benefit today and tomorrow in observance of Freeze Weekend '84. An award-winning documen­tary, "Dark Circle", will be shown at 7 and 9 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva hall at Saint Mary's. Freeze Weekend '84 is being observed nationwide, during the second weekend ofOctober, to draw public attention to a bilateral, verifiable nuclear weapons freeze as an issue in the November election. Tickets are S2 and may be purchased in advance at the South Bend Century Center Box Office, the LaFortune Ticket Office, or the O'Laughlin Ticket Office. ­
The Observer 
The "Religion and Politics" series continues 

this afternoon at 12: 1 5 at the Center for Social Concerns. Father James Burtchaell, professor of theology at Notre Dame, will address faculty and staff on the topic "Prophets and Kings: Why Churchmen Make Statesmen Miserable." Bring a brown bag lunch or purchase soup and bread for $1. · The Obseroer 
CILA. will be sponsoring two service projects during October Break. One will be in Appalachia and the other in St. Louis, Mo. For information on the trip to Appalachia, contact Jim Greene at 283­3111. Mary Miltenberger is the contact for the St. Louis trip. Her phone number is 277-0117. Sign-ups are at the Center for Social Concerns. · The Obseroer 
The American InstituteofSteel Construction has announced that eight graduate fellowships of S5,000 each will be awarded in 1985 by The AISC Education Foundation. The Institute is the national organization representing the structural steel fabricat· ing industry. The grants will be awarded to graduate civil or ar­chitectural engineering students proposing a course ofstudy toward an advanced degree related to fabricated structural steel. To be eligi­ble for the Fellowship Awards, applicants must be senior or graduate civil or architectural engineering students, accepted by a (:OIIege or university offering a graduate structural engineering degree pro­gram certified by the Accreditation Board of Engineering Technol­ogy. They must be U.S. citizens. Check in the civil engineering or architecture departments for applications. Applications can be re­quested from the AISC Education Foundation, 400 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill. 60611; telephone: 312/670-2400. The deadline for re­ceiving applications is March 1, 1985. Names of the winners will be announced by March 20, 1985. -The Observer 
Potential solutions to the arms race will 
be the topic of a live national teleconference Monday night at 7. At Notre Dame, the teleconference site will be the auditorium at the Center for Continuing Education. The three-hour teleconference, titled "Breaking the Stalemate" is sponsored nationally by the Union of Concerned Scientists. It will be carried by satellite to more than 200 sites around the country. The teleconference will consist of a panel discussion interspersed with a variety of live musical perfor­mances and short films. The discussion will be chaired by Daniel Schorr, television journalist with Cable News Network. More infor­mation on the teleconference may be obtained by calling the Center for Social Concerns (239-5293). -The Observer 
A concert by Douglas Bushwill be sponsored 
by the Notre Dame department of music Sunday night at 8 in Sacred Heart Church. Bush's program will include works byJ.S. Bach Con­rad Paumann, Jean Guilain, and Samuel Scheidt. The concert ts free and open to the public. -The Observer 
You may not know it but tonight is International Night at Augusta Hall. Students who have studied abrqad or are inter­ested in studying abroad are invited to wear the costume of their guest country to exchange remembranc_es and make future plans in the hall's lounge. The public is invited. · The Observer 


Weather 
Partly cloudy today with a zo percent chance of light rain, mostly in the morning. High in the low 70s. Partly cloudy and mild tonight with a 20 percent chance oflight rain toward mor­ning. Low in the upper 50s. Partly cloudy and continued mild tomor­row with a 30 percent chance oflight rain. High in the mid 70s. -AP 

The Observer (USPS '599 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. 'lbe Observer is published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year ( S.W per se mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observet is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction right.~ are reserved 
Todafs issue was produced hy: 

Design Editor ................. Guillermo Suarez Design Assistant .... Matthew Gracianene 
LayoutStaff .......................... Jennifer Hom Mike Sweeney Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck Dave Grote News Editor ............................Amy Stephan Copy Editor ..................................... Keith, Jr. Frank Upo, III Sports Copy Editor .............. Marc Ramirez Sports Special layout..... .... Mike Sullivan Chris Bowler Viewpoint Layout................John MenneII Features Cop}· Editor. ..... Cat Francis Features layout................. Kevin Williams Phil Wolf ND Day Editor ...................... Aimee Storrin SMC DayEdttor ........................ Shirley Ore Ad Design ........................ Suzanne !.aCroix Photographer ............................ Carol Gales Typist. . .. Kim Tyschen 



Thanks to summer draining, Lake Marion no longer an eyesore 
Ifyou are from Saint Mary's you've already witnessed the great event: the rebirth of the square lake affec­tionately called Lake Marion. A day didn't go by during the treks to and from Madeleva Hall when students were faced with the eyesore and poor excuse ofa lake. The overgrowth of lily pads, moss, weeds, and muck in general would evoke sympathy for the ducks and amazement that fish actually lived somewhere in its depths. 
There was no doubt about it -that was one sragnant pool. It was a biology major's petri dish and testing ground filled with living and dead ...it's anybody's guess what actually survived in the murky waters. The biol­ogy department even had its own canoe parked along the "shores." It was usually just parked there because of the water's thick consistency. 
Ifa poll were taken, the consensus would be that the water is original water that filled the lake when it was first built. While its surrounding environment belied its swampy appearance,the lake 
Anne Monastyrski 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Inside Friday 


Until it was drained bone dry during the summer,1t could have been fathoms deep and rest assured many could be included in the group that believed it was. The dry lake was quite an attraction and a historical event. Hundreds of LeMans Hall residents filled the dry lake posing for their yearbook picture. 
Crossing the bridge was an adventure and every creeky plank was an open invitation for a swim. All that's changed now. Work began during the sum­mer and was completed a few weeks ago. Lake Marion is still not a lake; it is a vir­

is in fact not a lake at all. It tually clear water fountain was a gigantic water foun­which adds to campus tain gone sour. beauty. The new fountain jet 
While the traditional spreads a shower of water, birthday "laking" is not fol­and with the addition of lowed as religiously as Notre lights on the fountain and a Dame students are thrown statue of Mary on the island, into Saint Joseph's or Saint the eyesore has become a Mary's lake, there have been fountainhead of beauty. The a few. Nothing could pos­Sacred Heart statue used to sibly be worse than being go unnoticed when it stood tossed into that cesspool. in front of Haggar College Things would cling for sure Center. Now that it's been if and when she ever relocated to the island and dragged herself out...if and faces Haggar, it's in plain when she ever hit bottom. view. Just last week it was 
The illusion of "fresh" decorated as a cheerleader 
water being poured into the lake was perpetuated by the water spout that was the old fountain. One straight stream of water shooting up out ofthe depths churned the mud below.lt never did a thing to alleviate the algae that coated the surface. In fact, it probably increased the reproductive activity of 
algae. 
for the Miami game. 
Thanks to Mark Kubacki, grounds supervisor, and the work of the grounds crew, it's a pleasure to be able to see autumn's reflection. The island and shore are popular resting spots for students between classes. The only tinge of nostalgia is the ducks that have not returned. But it's prime time for "laking" and now it might become a common occurrence. 




The United Way Campaign 
See your section leader to give what you can to help the less fortunate. ~ltadwau 





Hey, let's be careful out there. 
Public Hnlce announcement by 
the Governor'• T11k Force to Reduce 


The Observer Friday, October 12, 1984 -page 3 
would vote for Reagan-Bush and she


Deb-ate 
had told them, "we deliver." Said Bush, "we deliver ... optimism," add­
continuedfrom page 1 
ing of the Democrats, "they deliver the wrong things." He then went

saying everything's bad. I mean, into a string of negative economicsomebody says there's a silver lining, statistics that he attributed to the
he sees a big black cloud out there," tenure ofMondale as Jimmy Carter's
Bush said. "Whine on, harvest vice president.
n1oon." 
Ferraro said Bush understated

Ferraro criticized Bush for claim­Democratic achievements and over­ing credit for legislation on civil 
sold what's happened under Reagan.

rights that the president signed. The 
"I'll be a one-woman truth squad andbill "passed despite his opposition," we'll start tonight," she said.

she said. And he signed it because The debate was the week's second"he had to." 
in the presidential campaign, and after Mondale's strong showing on 

Bush said there were other ways Sunday against Reagan, took on un­of looking at civil rights, citing for expected importance. one example, "we look at civil rights Ferraro's task was to build on as something like crime in your Mondale's performance and the neighborhood." campaign momentum that resulted. 
He said Ferraro had asked some To the vice president fell the job of auto workers why some of them neutralizing the Democratic gains. 
Merrill Lynch pays fine 
Tho: Ob§o:rver/Carol Gales 


for state law violations 
Fall break? and study for Emil at the same time. After next 
"for the purpose of this order, MLLA

A.'iSOdated Press Allison Pivonka, a freshman from Pasquerilla week, with midtermsforgotten, she may bave time 
accepts responsibility for the acts of 
East, may not have time to break from her studies, to enjoy the outdoors without the aid of her 
its agents and agrees to the payment

TOPEKA, Kan. -Insurance Com­but she manages to enjoy a warm fall afternoon chemistry book. 
ofpenalties which otherwise wouldmissioner Fletcher Bell announced be imposed upon certain of itsyesterday that a subsidiary of one of agents."

the nation's largest brokerage houses has agreed to pay a S45,000 fine and to quit selling certain an­


Move toward dry campus <may be nationwide 
nuity contracts in Kansas in viola­tion ofstate law. Associated Press the law in almost half the states. Un­The depth of student emotion on drive drunk."' 
Bell said a consent order agreed COLLEGE PARK, Md. -College der a measure recently signed by the issue was demonstrated last Roberts said he has misgivings upon by Merrill Lynch Life Agency deans and other campus leaders say President Reagan, the rest will be week when 500 Illinois State Univer­about the age 21 bandwagon, sayin~ Inc., a subsidiary of Merrill, Lynch, the nationwide drive to adopt a 21-forced to increase the age to 21 sity students and other youths that traffic statistics show that male Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc., is the year-old legal drinking age is forcing within two years unless they want to dashed with police in Normal, Ill., to drivers age 21 to 24 have just as high first action taken by any state insur­them to crack down on some beer­give up a share of their federal high­protest a law designed to curb loud a rate ofaccidents as those age 18 to ance department in an investigation soaked campus traditions. wayfunds. campus parties. 20. begun lastJanuary into the sale ofan­The setting for this week's confer­Campus officials who have The 125 educators attending the "Why not go to 25?" asked nuity policies offered by the finan-. ence of 125 educators was winked at underage drinking in conference compared notes on how Roberts, whose own campus cially troubled Baldwin-United appropriate: the student union at the fraternities and football stadiums are to encourage responsible drinking imposed a temporary ban on drink­Group of Companies. University of Maryland, where this now being faced with courts that are by students and to hear pledges of ing this fall after problems with 
Merrill Lynch did not admit any of summer the student pub was con­holding party organizers liable for fa­support from representatives of the fraternities and sororities. The the Insurance Department's allega­verted into a bake shop. tal accidents caused by drunken stu­major breweries. drinking age in Texas is 19. tions, but the order it agreed to said, The higher drinking age is already dents. The conference was organized by Nancy Schulte, assistant director 



The StudentActivities Board and WVFI present: 



THE BANGLES 
FROM LOS ANGELES 
LIVE AT STEPAN CENTER Sunday, October 14th at 8:00p.m. 
• 
Toured with Flock ofSeagulls 

• 
Hit single "Hero Takes A Fall" 

• 
On MT.V. 


BACCHUS -Boost Alcohol Con­
sciousness Concerning the Health of 
University Students -a project 
started at the University ofFlorida in 
1976 that now has chapters at 180 
colleges in the United States and 
Canada. The conference also 
marked the start ofthe first National 
Collegiate Alcohol Awareness 
Week. 
Dennis C. Roberts, associate dean of students and director of housing at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, expressed fear that educators are being "blackmailed by students saying, 'Well, if you're not going to allow us to drink on campus, we'll of residence life for Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, a state with an age 18 law, said, "We in stu­dent affairs are doing lots as far as positive alcohol education, but one block away off campus there are all the bars with the 3-for-1 drinks every day and quarter-beer nights." 
Some states lowered their drink­ing ages in the early 1970s when the voting age was lowered to 18. New Jersey and Maryland already have moved them back to 21. Wisconsin moved its age to 19 in July, and Arizona and Nebraska will move up to 21 in January from 19 and 20, respectively. 

$1.00 lOff 
$1.00 off any pizza. One coupon per pizza. 
Fast, Free Delivery"' 
Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend 
Phone: 277-2151 Expires in one week JTC NA 1 25 2650 c 1984 Dom1n.:,.s p,zza. Inc 
Tickets on sale now in the Dining Halls and at the S.A. B. Record Store 
$3.50 in advance, $4.50 at the door 
The Observer 
Friday, October 12, 1984 -page 4 
r 

Panama's new leader to honor U.S. treaties 
Associated Press Chicago, was the first civilian presi­dent directly elected in Panama in 
PANAMA City, Panama-Panama's 16 years. All others were chosen by new civilian president promised in means of an indirect process con­an inaugural speech yesterday that trolled by the military. his administration will Shultz's presence was considered "scrupulously" respect the U.S. a U.S. (!ndorsement of Ardito Bar­canal treaties. letta despite widespread allegations 
Nicolas Ardito Barletta, an offraud in the May 6 election. Ardito American-educated economist, was Barletta, candidate of the military­sworn in for a five-year term at a cer­supported Revolutionary Demo­emony in the capital's Atlapa Con­cratic Party, won by 1,713 votes out vention Center. Secretary of State of some 640,000 counted behind George Shultz headed the U.S. closed doors. delegation to the inauguration. A protest demonstration Wednes­
Aguest ofhonor was former Presi­day by supporters of the 83-year-old dent Carter, who in 1977 negotiated Arnulfo Arias Madrid, Ardito Bar­and signed the treaties in which the letta's main opponent, was broken ;' United States recognized up by riot police. At least 20 people '> Panamanian sovereignty over the were arrested and witnesses said 
I,' 
I Panama Canal, the strategic water­scores were injured. 
~ 
way connecting the Atlantic and In his inaugural speech, Ardito ~· Pacific oceans. Barletta urged Panamanians not to ( Carter received a standing ova­engage in "disunity, diatribe, bitter­
tion from the assembled dignitaries ness and pessimism." He called his
~ 
when he entered the convention inauguration a "democratic transi­
? hall. tion" and praised the Defense
( 
~ Ardito Barletta, 46, a graduate in Forces, formerly called the National ~ economics from the University of Guard, for making it possible. 

The Observer/Carol Gales 
with Cap'n Crunch, instead found Dick Bjoraas andhis Gennan bandperforming many best-loved polka bits. The bandplayed as part ofOktoberfest nightat the dining balls. Sebr gut! 
,. 

More women postpone first birth until 30s, say statistics 
Assodated Press even late-30s," the National Center herhood. to 24, the report said. have children ~ased on the relative for Health Statistics said in its final But the new statistics indicate "In sharp contrast, the rate in­value they place on children, leisure 
WASHINGTON-After postponing report on births in 1982. even further delays than have been creased by 10 percent for women time, career and a lifestyle ofprivacy childbearing into their late 20s as The study, released this week, also reported in the past. There was a aged 30 to 34 years and by 18 per­and mobility," David Bloom ob­they pursued careers in recent found use of midwives to assist in substantial increase in first births to cent for women aged 35 to 39 served in a study of childbearing in years, large numbers of American birth has been increasing and re­women in their 30s, while those in years," the study said. the September issue of American women are now waiting even longer ported a rise in childbearing by un­the 25 to 29 age group actually had a Women aged 30 to 34 averaged Demographics magazine. 
-often to their late 30s -to have children, new government statistics show. 
"An increasing proportion of wo­men who have been delaying childbearing seem to be postponing their first births until their mid-or married women. 
The trend to postpone childbearing into the middle or late 20s has been widely noted in recent years as young women pursued edu­cation and established themselves in careers before embarking on mot-small decline in first births and the rate for younger women also fell. 
Between 1981 and 1982, the first­birth rate fell by less than 1 percent for women 1 5 to 19 years old, by 1 percent for women 25 to 29 years and by 2 percent for women aged 20 14.6 first births per 1,000 women in 1982, the report said, more than double the 7.0 rate of a decade ear-· lier. And for those aged 35 to 39 the increase was 83 percent, from 1 .8 to 
3.3 first births per 1 ,000. "A couple decides if and when to 
Thanks to you... A itworks... • for ALL OF US UniiiMIW.U 

MEAL HOURS  1112 1. ·1o  2·  
·9  0  3·  
.8Early Kick Off Time Necessitates  .7 6 5.  4.  
A Change In Meal Hours  
Please Note:  

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13,1984 (ONLY) 
*AIR FORCE VS. NOTRE DAME WEEKEND* 

Brunch: 9:30a.m. -11:00 a.m. Dinner: 4:00p.m.-6:00p.m. 
An early bird breakfast will be served from 7:00-8:30 a.m. in the South Dining Hall for students taking G.R.E.'s 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES 
-----~------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------~----------------------~--------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, October 12, 1984-page 5 

NATO loses technological edge over Soviets, says London study 
Associated Press The institute's report was issued NATO allies has undoubtedly lagged on the same day that NATO defense behind that ofthe United States." 
LONDON -NATO has largely lost secretaries opened their fall meeting It said the Warsaw Pact "enjoys the technological edge it had over in Stresa, Italy. numerical advantage in virtually all the Warsaw Pact· while the Soviet "The numerical balance -particu­categories of weapons," including 
-50,500 battle tanks against NATO's
bloc has boosted its numerical con­larly in equipment continues to ventional weapons superiority, the move gradually in favor of the East," 20,742, and has standardized hard­International Institute for Strategic the report said in its analysis of the ware and tactics, while NATO Studies reported today. conventional weapons balance in countries have different doctrines 
The London-based research cen­Europe. "At the same time, the West and weapons. 
ter, however, stressed in its 1984-85 has largely lost the technological The institute also said the "rising Military Balance report: "the con­edge in conventional equipment Soviet inventory of modern fighter­ventional overall balance is still such · which allowed NATO to believe that bombers poses an increasingly long­as to make general military aggres­quality could substitute for num­range threat." sion a highly risky undertaking." ber." The Soviets now have 2,430 
Asked about possible future The institute said the super­ground-attack planes, 745 more trends, Institute Director Robert powers' nuclear missiles . are than last year. NATO's correspond­ing strength was. given as 2,290, an
O'Neill said: "a great deal depends becoming smaller, more accurate on ... how far the So\'iets will be able, and more mobile. This, it said, "is a increase of only 104. because of the economic stresses trend which will make it very diffi­The institute said the Soviets also 
we've seen them coming under, in cult to negotiate \'erifiable con­have boosted anti-aircraft defenses. 
future years, to continue to maintain straints in future years." 
the same level of defense expend­O'Neill said both NATO and the 
iture." Warsaw Pact have had economic 

Food day
"They may well find they have to problems that curbed defense
Liberation theology 
change their force structure quite spending. Global spending on arms continuedfrom page 1 considerably also." was !790 billion last year, a S I 0 bil­
Ricard McBrien, chairman ofNotre Dame's theology depart­
The International Institute for lion drop from the previous year. sist of a panel discussion by hunger
ment, speaks ata Student Organization for Latin America panel on 
Strategic Studies, founded in 1958, is The institute said NATO's target experts across the country includ­
the theology ofliberation. McBrien spoke on "Latin America and 
widely respected for its studies ofin­for an annual 3 percent increase in ing Secretary of Agriculture John
the Vatican Instruction" yesterday afternoon at the Center for So­
ternational security issues. Its defense spending to upgrade con­Block; Rep. Mickey Lelend, D-Texas, 
cial Concerns. Claude Pomerleau of the government department · 
analysts come from the United ventional forces "is unlikely to be member of the Select Committee on
and Robert Pelton of thf! Institute for Clergy Education joined 
States, Europe and Asia. met. lbe economic recovery of the Hunger; and Dr. Ruth Finney with
McBrien on the panel. 
FAO ofUN Women in Agriculture. 
Father William Byron, president of Catholic University and a founder of Bread for the World, Dr. Cliff Wharton, Chancellor of State Uni­versity of New York, and her Excel­lency 'M' Alineo Tau, UN Ambassador of Lesotho will also be on the panel. 
The panel discussion will focus on the topics of women in agriculture, the U.S. role in global economics, and the food crisis in Africa due to drought. Each panel member will of­fer insights into his or her own par­ticular area. 
The second part of the teleconference will emphasize local programming. Students, faculty, and guests will have the opportunity to hear local presentations and partici­pate in discussions. 
One notable speaker taking part in the discussion is Carmen Diana Deere, an associate professor ofeco­nomics at the University of Massa­chusetts, Amherst, who has done research on the problems of rural women. 
Professor Denis Goulet, another participant in the local discussion, holds concurrent appointments in the Kellogg Institute for Interna­tional Studies and in the department ofeconomics at Notre Dame. Profes­sor Petr.r Walshe, department of government at Notre Dame, will speak on the political and economic situations in southern Africa. Law ProfessorJohn). Gilligan, former ad­ministrator of the Agency for Inter­national Development, will moderate the second hour of the program. 
"I would stress the expertise of the people we are having talk on the panel on our own campus. Many stu­dents aren't even aware of these people who have had great experi­ence and who are right here for us to take advantage of," said Jordan. "Hopefully, as a result of people thinking about the issues this week, they will later take advantage of classes offered by these special teachers at Notre Dame."




BILLY S<S>UIEI:< 
After discussion with the local panel, the teleconference will return live to the panel in Washing­ton, D.C.,.where discussion will be
with special guest 
summarized and concluded. Throughout the three hours, stu­dents and faculty are encouraged to

RATT 
participate with questions and dis­cussion on the issues addressed by
Tuesday, November 6 7:30p.m. 
the teleconference. Because ofthe three distinct parts
NOTRE DAME A.C. C. 
ofthe teleconference, it is not neces­
ALL SEATS RESERVED $12!1° and $11 !io 
sary for students to stay for the 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE AC.C. BOX OFFICE, SE.AR~. ROBERTSON$. ELKHART TRUTH, 
entire event, jordan said. 
J.R.'S MUSIC SHOP. ST. JOSEPH'S BANK (MAIN OFFICE). WORLD RECORD (GOSHEN). 
'The National Food Day Telecon­
ference is the first in a series of 
events planned by the WHC for 
MUSIC MAGIC (BENTON HARBOR). AND KARMA RECORDS (FT WAYNE) 


World Food Day. 
-----------------------------------~--~~--~-------------------.~--~------~~----..--~~------~............
I 
i 
The Observer Friday, October 12, 1984 -page 6
t 
l 
! First U.S. spacewalk
' 
( 

l by woman is successful 

\ 
Associated Press 
~ 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -"This is really great... superb...llove it," said astronaut Kathy Sullivan yesterday as she became the first American woman to walk and work in open space. 
Sullivan and David Leestma spent more than three hours outside Chal­lenger's cargo bay, often shouting with joy. They seemed almost reluc­tant to come back in and had to be prodded several times by com­
{ 
mander Robert Crippen.
L 
"Six seconds, front and center,"
l 
he said."Good job, time to come in."
r 
Sullivan acted as a plumber's assis­
l. 
tant to Leestma as he attached a refueling line to a tank fitting, testing tools and techniques that may some­day refuel spent satellites that are now abandoned as space junk. 
Later, her body dangling over the side at a 90-degree angle to the spacecraft, Sullivan helped Leestma align a loose antenna, so that pins could be electrically driven into two holes from inside the cabin. 
That done, she floated to the other side of the spacecraft and did some troubleshooting on another antenna that caused locking problems in the flight. 
Bundled in bulky space suits cos­ting J.2.1 million each and restrained by tethers attached to the sides of the ship, Sullivan and Leestma clipped wires, removed a dust cap, unscrewed a nut and attached a valve and hose to a tank filled with hydrazine. 
"Look at that," said Leestma, as he removed the dust cover. "We got it right off the bat." He held it up tri­umphantly to the television camera with a pair ofgrippers. 
The actual fuel transfer is to take place by remote control today with the ao;tronauts in Challenger's cabin. 
"That is just superb," said Sullivan as Leestma completed the opera­tion. He worked rapidly on the in­stallation in an area that resembled the underside of a kitchen sink in size and accessibility. 
The astronauts remained out of 
THOUSANDSOFUSEDBOOKS ON ALL SUBJECTS • WE BUY USED BOOKS • 
HOURS: 
Wed., Sal. 1: Sun. 9 a.m.· 7 p.m. or by appolnlmenl 
UtS Nu..e.e...-• IW, NU.. 683-2888 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes LeHers Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 
0 Holy St. Jude apostle and martyr great in virtue and rich in miracles near kinsman of Jesus Christ. Faithful in· tercessor of all who invoke your special patronage in time of need. To you have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg whom God has given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me in my pre­sent and urgent petition. In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked. Soy three Our Fathers, three Hail Mary's and three Gloria for nine days. Publications must be promis­ed. Pray for us and all who in· voke your aid -Amen 
the cabin after the work was finished 
to stow an antenna whose power 
was disconnected earlier in the 
flight. 
"I'm going to sit back and watch 
the world go by," said Sullivan at one 
point. 
From inside the cabin, Sally Ride 
pointed out Long Island, N.Y. to Sul­
livan, who was born in nearby New 
Jersey. 
Leestma left the airlock first. 
"I love it," said Sullivan while she 
was still in the airlock and "this is 
really great," after she followed 
Leestma out. 
The other five crew members 
were monitoring from Challenger's 
cabin. 
Before this flight, there had been . 38 space walks by Americans, all of 
them men. A Soviet cosmonaut, Svet­
lana Savitskaya, became the first wo­
man space walker last july 25. 
Both astronauts quickly attached 
themselves to SO-foot safety lines. 
They were not scheduled to float 
free on this flight. The space suits 
protect them from radiation, 
micrometeorites and the extremes 
ofheat and cold. 
It took water cannons to break up Wednesday's protest against recent price bikes in Santiago, swinging their clubs at a young demonstrator, while two women rush to escape the fight. Police arrested at leastfive people in the protests. 
Ralph A. Casperson Books 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME, INDIANA HAMMESistBOOKSTORE Special Hours .FRI OCT 5 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m. SAT OCT 6 8:00a.m.-5:00p.m. GO IRISHII BEAT AIR FORCE!! Your Full Service College Store  P----------------------------------~A·DRAMATIC NEW CONCEP IN SUN TANNING! Preserve your tan with our NEW tanning bed TAN-HAwlr\N sun tannrg salm 277-7026 J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy VISA & MASTERCARD  
Urban Plunge ••• Remember To participate during Christmas Break in an Urban Plunge in your home city, you must submit your application today, October 12, by 3:00p.m. to the Center for Social Concerns (ND) or the Office of Justice Education (SMC). lnforma1ion and applications are available from: The Center for Social Concerns University Ministry Offices Office of Justice Education (SMC) Your Urban Plunge Hall Representative  November 1, 2, 3, 4 TICKETS ON SALE NOW I SAB Record Store PresaI e: $4.00 At Door: $5.00  
r***********************************i ATTENTION SENIORS! t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ October Calendar Revisions: ~ ~ : ~ ~ ~ Oct. 11 SMC Beer Garden ~ : 9 p.m. ­1 a.m. : ~ ~ ~ ~ t Oct. 12 Senior Night at H.l.'s : : 9:30p.m. : ~ ~ ~ ~ t Oct. 18 Cocktail Party : : ACC Monogram Room ~ ~ 9 p.m. -1 a.m. t ~ ~ ~ ~ :Oct. 31 Halloween Party t ~ Senior Bar ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~**********************************~  Consultant to Multinational Firms seek qualified individuals with language and area expertise on foreign markets. Our clients prefer foreign nationals with advanced degrees from American universities. Visa restrictions may not apply for some of the projects. Part-time and full­time assignments available. Fee paid. Send resume and request for information to: SWENSON, CRAWFORD & PAINE Executive Search Division BoxA3629 Chicago, IL 60690 ( No phone calls please. - 








Showcase 
Friday, October 12, 1984 -page 7 
All Over the Place -The 60s all over again 
by Tim Adams 
features staff writer 
W
ithAll Over the Place, Los Angeles' Bangles have produced one of 1984's most en­joyable pop albums. All Over the Place is the all-female quartet's first full-length record (they put out a 5-song EP in 1982), and it displays good pop sensibility, as well as a number of musical influences. 
Throughout the album, there are echoes of many popular 60's groups. Traces of early Beatles minimalism, jangling Byrds-like guitar, and even Kinks power chords ace e-vident, and the Bangles combine these influences with their own talents to create an impressive debut LP. 
The Bangles, as musicians, are competent, but it is the guitar work ofVicki Peterson and Susanna Hoffs that stands out to give their songs distinction. 
Vocals are another strong point for the Bangles, and they split the chore of lead sipging between Hofls, Vicki Peterson, and Vicki's sister, dmmmer Debbi Peterson. Bassist Michael Steele adds backing 
The members of the Bangles are (from left to right) Debbi
vocals. 
Peterson on drums, Vicki Peterson on lead guitar, Susanna Hoffs
The songs themselves are smartly 
on guitar, and Michael Steele on bass. The group is a product of
written, and they deal with topics such as failed relationships, hanging 60's, girl groups usually sang aoout relationships. For instance, "Live" you want. In it, Debbi Peterson might make you stomp your feet. around, and basically being your­the greatness and infallibility of tells us·to stop and smell the roses sings about going down to Liver­The last song on the album, "More self. In the song, "james," Hoffs their boyfriends, and the utopia once in a while. Debbi Peterson pool. She sings: Than Meets the Eye," is also the sings about a guy named james who they lived in. The Bangles sing sings: most unusual. Consisting entirely of
Hey, where are you going with that 
cannot stay faithful to their relation­about relationships, but ones with violins and acoustic guitar, this song
UB40 in yourhand? 
ship, and so she wants to get out of which they're not exactly satisfied. Ifyou don't know what life's about ends the album with a question.
Hey, to this green andpleasant
the relationship first: In "Tell Me," Hoffs and Vicki Peter­Go on nowand live The singing is tender and beauti·
land 
son sing: And ifyou don't know bow fully harmonized.
I'm going down to Liverpool to do 
You think that there's something It's not so hard The song is about ambiguity in
my thing
betterfor you l-2-3, abandon me just letgo and Jive what one says. There is also am­
I'm going down to Liverpool to do 
You think I'm too young to see this 8-9-10, you're back again biguity as to the meaning of the
my thing
thing through Well, too bad, baby Feeling good and having fun are song, as it uplifts the listener, while
All tbe days ofmy life james This timeyou lose essential to life, and the Bangles the lyrics are thought-provoking Letting me down again 'Cause I'm moving on don't want us to forget that. "Live" The song features acoustic guitar, and disturbing. In other words, james is a happy song, and the playing on and it is relativ~ly low:-key. It is also there's more to it than meets the The Bangles' attitude is one of it is cheerful and spirited, with the highlight of side two. ear. Hoffs' voice is reminiscent of the self-sufficiency; they don't need to R.E.M.-like guitar part. "Live" is All Over tbe Place contains other Ifyou're looking for a pleasant delicate singers ofthe "girl groups" take gufffrom any guy. The Bangles simple, but not understated. good songs, such as the first single album by a band with real promise, in the 60's, and the song sounds as have gone through all the trials and One oftwo songs not written by from the album, "Hero Takes a Fall." tryAll Over the Place. Itwill jog though it came from that era. There tribulations oflove, and they're the Bangles is also one of the most Anyone who professes to like pop your memory and give you faith is a difference, however, between battle-weary. appealing. The song is "Going and doesn't like this song is a liar. once again in American pop. lbe the Bangles' lyrical content and that Not all of the eleven songs onAll Down to Liverpool," and it deals "Silent Tre~tment" is a fast-paced -Bangles'All Over the Place deserves typical of 60's girl groups. In the Over the Place are concerned with with hanging out and doing what experience in power pop, and it to be heard all over the place. 


High-energy pop gives the ·Bangles success 
E
harmonica) were added to the the Blues Magoos' "How is the Air line-up. The band emerged as the Up There?" The EP, which showed Special to Tht Observer Colors, which_ became the Bangs off their split-level vocal and and, finally, the Bangles. writing talents, was followed by a In the beginning, "About fifty­national tour supporting the English mbracing 60's pop in a world percent ofour songs were covers," Beat and later a headlining tour. grown accustomed to Linn 
explains Peterson, "Ticket To Ride, Regarding these tours, Peterson drums and digital delay is a daring Beatles and Byrds." And those that explains: ''We've got enthusiastic task. To the pop purist, one is either 
were self-penned, "we wrote to­fans. 'Jbe audience gives and we a player or a fraud. The revivalist gether from the start as opposed to give back. We're a high-energy must appear to live the sound ­
separately." band; we do a lot ofdancing and which often takes a good deal of What were their early goals? running around." 
prett:nding. "We were headed for the top!" "Cheerleading," laughs Hoffs. ~ot so with the Bangles. The L.A. 
To become what? "We're up, excited. We usually play foursome seems to have leapt the "Stars!" a slow one at the end just to calm musical thr~sts of the 70's with all 
Step One. ourselves down." their sensibilities intact. Toss a 
Like many bands, the Bangles A third Bangles tour is slated to Bangles record into a time capsule formed their own label as a means begin at summer's end. following with the be!it of Merseybeat or 
ofgetting themselves on vinyl. • recent release of the hand's first psychedelia, and one hundred years 
Their first single, "Getting Out of full-length LP,A/1 Over the Place from now no one will be able to tell Hand," released on Down Kiddie (Columbia), produced by David the difference. 
records, captured the attention of Cohn. A video of the album's single Three years ago, Los Angt:les 
KROQ DJ Rodney Bingenheimer, "Hero Takes A Fall," is also sched· songwriter Susanna Hoffs placed an who aired it on his Sunday night uled for immediate release. ad in the Recycler, a local swap 
radio show. Talking about the record. Peter­sheet, to recruit musicians for a "It was hard to fit into the Los son explains, "Our songs are band. "It was time to stop standing Angeles scene," says Hoffs. "Like us, listenable stuff. We don't try to 
in front ofthe mirror, putting on there were many bands that were shock for the sake ofshocking. It's 
makeup and going with it." The song-oriented · bands like Dream basically rock'n'roll using classic announcement caught Vicki Peter­Syndicate and Savage Nuns. drums. No electronics! 
son's attention and her phone call "We did dates together; then a "We started out slowly to build a put the two guitarists in touch. scene occurred," adds Peterson. strong base and progressed at a After much discussion, running 
··contingems formed and there was steady pace," she continues, but P:tid our dues." doubtedly, they're one ofthe least through the gamut ofguy-and-girl good energy. It was happening..." "Playing has been an important part Despite the ups and downs, the 
conscious bands around today. Thisbands, Hoffs and Peterson met on 
A five-song EP was rdeased in ofour existence." Ban~les maintain the kicky sort of common ground_ Debbi Peterson is powerful fun for the feet and the
1982 on the Faulty Products label "It's been a roller coaster ride," pop ardor that's born in the ear and (drums) and Annette Zilinkas (bass, which included a sparkling cover of adds Hoffs. "We've been blessed, perfected in the basement. Un-heart-60's style. 

f ------------~--------------~----------------------~~---------------------­

Kong still king 
lbe Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Not all Kongs are kings in the eyes of the law. An appeals court says there's no way Donkey Kong, a video game 
COUPON COUPON
$1.00 OFF 
r 
t 
( 
( 


Showcase 
Letters to a lonely God 
Sending smoke signals 


by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features staffwriter 
D
ear Staff of the Center for Social Concerns: 
You are unquestionaly some of the niftiest people at Notre Dame, hosting or sponsoring some of the niftiest events in Catholic educa­tion. Ifyou weren't friends of mine, patient and compassionate with minorities, I wouldn't bother you with my small complaint. But since you are great-hearted Christians opposed to the small erosions of freedom which are steadily making us a nation of slaves, I'm not going to continue talking about you be­hind your backs. That's what I have been doing when I get together to exchange complaints Of discrimina­tion with other members of a vanishing species. 
Recently I attended a meeting at the Center. Your walls were cov­ered '\\-ith signs: "Thank you for not smoking." Why? S'lloking for some of us is a secular sacrament of the age of anxiety that gets us through the day. It is a social amenity surviv­ing from the great taverns and cof­fee houses of Europe, where the wittiest and wisest conversations in our human culture have taken place, usually in the midst ofclouds from strong tobacco. Paris, France, is the most sophisticated city in the world; smokers are not made un­comfortable in any place worth going to. In Paris, everyone smokes, including (I have heard) certain orders ofcontemplative nuns wise enough to realize that smoking and meditation are forever wedded. The most elegant and beautiful people in free Europe choose Maxim's, near the Place de la Concorde, as their watering hole, and you'd be surprised to hear which existen­tialist geniuses are flicking their jewelled Bics in the direction of the 
waiting Gauloises of which jet-set 
widows of the famous and rich. 
On the other hand, in the Krem­lin, Communist leaders passing each other in the rest rooms mutter in the Slavic language of their choice: "Thank you for not smoking." 
Cigarette smoking became popular during World War I, when Red Cross workers handed out millions ofpacks to the doughboys. In Korea and Vietnam, nobody ever told G.I.Joe that smoking was hazardous to his health. One of the great patriotic slogans during World War II informed a grateful nation that Lucky Strike Green Had Gone to War. Ernie Pyle, the great war correspondent, mentioned seeing cigarette butts on the beach at Normandy. Cigarettes were one of the small comforts from home a soldier could have to keep up his morale. Ifthey go out ofstyle, in the next war we will have to invent them. 
In New York, street ministers depend on cigarettes as an ice breaker with the winos. Walking down the Bowery with my Pall Malls showing, I get to talk with all the derelicts. Smoking is the com­mon language we use while getting acquainted. You don't feel taken advantage ofwhen you're giving away cigarettes as you would ifyou handed out money. Graces that this world doesn't dream ofare set into motion when a stranger asks you if you have an extra smoke available. 
Who of us these days hasn't used a cigarette as the bridge over troubled waters that saves friendship? Our friends tell us they are getting divorced, leaving the priesthood, or turning gay. We take a long drag to cover our speechless-


Feature Briefs 
character who uses pies and birthday cakes against a carpenter trying to free a girl, can IJe confused
•
with King Kong, who climbs skyscrapers and swats biplanes while clutching a beautiful woman. 
The court, in an Oct. 4 ruling, affirmed a lower court's dismissal of a trademark infringement suit brought against Seattle-based Nin­tendo ofAmerica Inc. by Un!versal City Studios Inc. 
The lower court judge, whose ruling was unanimously upheld, described King Kong as "a ferocious gorilla in quest ofa beautiful wo­man, who goe~ on rampages, chases people, crushes them under foot, or throws them to the ground, and fights with dinosaurs, giant snakes, airplanes and he~icopters, all cul­minating in his tragic and bloody death." 
That's a far cry from the video 
IN CONCERT 
October 12th &13th 
DUKETUMATOE 
AT DUKE'S BISTRO ~f.~ 52303
llf[ : Emmons Rd. 
......_____J... , Georgetown Shop Ctr. u. 
Clevefw ~ 
Advance tickets on 
5. 
sale now!
.l 
ph: 277-DUKE $5" at the door
I 
ness while gathering the tolerance 
w murmur: "Quel dommage, but I 
hope you'll be happy." Smoke 
covers a multitude ofsins when 
you're trying hard not to look like a 
judge without guile willing to cast 
the first stone. 
Smoking ruins the fresh air, but so does Right Guard when you're sitting next to an over-protected deodorant freak. People commit suicide with car fumes, yet no on·e has ever asked: "Do you mind ifI drive?" Nicotine addicts are usually polite enough to ask: "Do you mind if I smoke?" Catholics come w confession after eating big, ethnic dinners. I wouldn't dream ofsaying: "Thanks for not breathing." 
IfI were a militant, willing lO overthrow popes who outlaw altar girls, I know you wouldn't make me go outside until I got over my anti­establishment feelings. Please put out some ashtrays for those ofus paying smokers' taxes that support schools and pay for highway repair, even ifyou give us segregated cor­ners, because smokers have feelings too. Smoking is a handicap we've chosen as the lesser of two evils, preferring the devil we know to any of the alternative devils you could name. 
Ifour habit is unacceptable, please say so plainly. A "no smoking sign" is all that is necessary. Thank­ing us for not smokiqg isn't neces­sary, because then you make it sound as though we had a choice. When a New York cab driver thanks me for not smoking, I tell him: "Thank you for not expecting a tip." The pseudo-politeness of thanks sets my teeth on edge so that I'll only pay him what's on the meter. 
In a social concerns center, I'm a silent minority. Silent minorities are what social concerns centers are all about, I should think. Would anybody there like to help us in our demonstration for civil rights? 
arcade game Donkey Kong, the 
judge said. 
Republican dog 
lbe A.ssoclated Press 
COLLEGE PARK, Ga.-The Na­tional Republican Congressional Committee was barking up the wrong tree when it asked Brandy Sargent to contribute to President Reagan's re-election campaign. 
Brandy, a Yorkshire terrier, received a four-page letter saying Reagan "requests the honor ofyour support" and asking for a contribu­tion of at least S2 5. 
The letter said Brandy's name turned up on a "carefully prepared" list of"supporters and friends \Vho have shown a serious interest in national policy." 
The only place Brandy is regis­tered is with the American Kennel Club. 

Friday, October 12, 1984 -page 8 

•MOVIES 
This weekend the Student Activities Board proudly prt:t;.:nts the academy award winning "Kramer vs.Kramer." Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep star in this heart-wrenching story of a bitter divorce and child-custody battle. Showings are at 7, 9, and 11 in the Engi­neering Auditorium and admission is S1. 
Ifyou're in the market for some gory entertainment, head to the Knights of Columbus Hall tonight or tomorrow night where "The Shining" will certainly satisfy your whim. Jack Nicholson and Shelley Duvall star in this film described by The New York Times as "heart­stopping. A spellbinding horror film." The excitement begins at 7, 9:15, and 11:30 and admission is s1. 
The Friday Night Film Series will present "A La Recherche du Crabe Tambour," a French film with English subtitles. Based on a real person, Willsdorf, the Crab Drum, the film centers on his involve­ment with France's colonial projects in Algeria and Indochina. The film begins at 7:30 in the Annenburg Auditorium and admission is S2.50. 
•MUSIC On Sunday, the SABin conjunction with WVFI will present "The Bangle~." a female foursome rock band. The concert will begin at 8 
p.m. in the Stepan Center. Tickets purchased in advance are 53.50 (available in Record Store or the dining halls) and those purchased at the door are 54. 50. 
Also on Sunday, the Notre Dame Music Department wm present Douglas Bush in a guest organist recital. The performance will be at 8 
p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
•ART 
The Visiting Artist Lecture Series will present David Middlebrook on Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Middlebrook's areas ofspecialty are sculpture and ceramics. 
There are several exhibits presently on display in the Snite Museum. "John Singer Sargent: Drawings from the Corcoran Gallery ofArt" is one of them. Probably the most famous American painter at the time ofhis death in l925,John Singer Sargent was also a prolific draftsman. The exhibition of 58 drawings and two watercolors was selected from the Corcoran's Sargent collection of I 05 works on paper. The display will remain on view until Nov. 4. 
The exhibition, "Robert Arneson: Masks and Portraits," orgilnized by Landfall Press, Inc. of Chicago will continue until Oct. 28. Ar­neson, best known for his funk ceramic sculpture, has added drawing and printmaking to his repertoire and this exhibit. The 30 pieces on display, all self-portraits, give insight into the artist's per­sonality and humor. 
The exhibition "Andre Kertesz: Form and Feeling," continues through Oct. 20. There are 88 photographs in this retrospective col­lection spanning 19 I 4-1972. The display is on loan from the Hal­lmark Photographic Collection and is touring the nation. 
Hours at the Snite are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Friday; 1 to 4 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays; and Thursday evenings from 4 to 8. 
•THEATRE 
Continuing this weekend in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's is the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre presentation of "The Hot House" by Harold Pinter. Performances will be tonight and tomorrow night at 8. General admission is S3 and admission for ND/SMC community is S2.50. All seats reserved, call 284-4626. 
•DANCE 
There will be an Irish Victory party tomorrow night in LaFortune. 
Regardless of whether or not there is a victory to celebrate, the fun 
will begin at 9 and continue until 1. Admission will be S 1 and that 
includes food and drinks. 
•MASS 
The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will 
be: 
Father Robert Kennedy at 5:15 mass (Saturday night vigil). 
Father George Wiskirchen at 9 a.m. 
Father David Tyson at 10:30. 
Father Mark Poorman at 12: 1 5. 
LOGAN CENTER 
ND/SMC Council for the Retarded NEEDS VOLUNTEERS FOR 
TONIGHTS DANCE 
7:30-10 p.m. Givefor the Kids 




a sports supplement
page9 October 12, 1984 




Air Force tries for three in a row over Irish 
ND has to overcome injuries to bounce Mike Brown back from last week's loss, repay Falcons 
AFA running back 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 
It's bounce-back time once again for the Fighting Irish as the Falcons ofAir Force invade Notre Dame Stadium this Saturday for what is the second ofthree straight home games for the Irish. 
Coming off a 31-13 loss to defending national champion Miami, the Irish have some serious injury problems with which they must deal this week as they 
attempt to avoid their third straight loss to Air Force. And it's the same old storyfor Notre Dame -another game that's not going to be easy. 
Air Force is 4-2 this season under first-year head coach Fisher DeBerry, a former assistant coach and offensive coordinator with the Falcons. Air Force is looking for its third straight victory, after coming offsuccessive wins over Colorado State ( 52-1 0) and Navy ( 29-22). The Falcons' other victories were over San Diego State ( 34-16) and Northern Colorado (75-7), while they managed 20 points in a loss to Wyoming and scored 17 points in falling to Utah. While these aren't exactly Top Twenty teams, it's still safe to say that the Falcons can put plenty ofpoints up on the board against Notre Dame. 
Air Force's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense: 


Doing more with less 
Falcons aim high, win despite small size 


By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
This is a classic story of David and Goliath, right out of the pages of the Old Testament. 
The little Air force Academy, by its nature, is not a school that attempts to be a football factory. Its purpose is to provide our coumry with officers to lead one of the branches of the armed forces. It does not concern itself with recruiting the biggest, the strongest or the fastest athletes. The Falcon football team is just a bunch ofguys who like to play football. 
On the other hand, take some universities that have a much bigger enrollment, a few with tradition-rich football programs, some that thrive by how well their football team does each year. Put these two teams on the football field and what do you expect? You expect Air force to lose, right? 
At least in the case ofAir Force in the last two seasons, you are wrong. The bigger and better equipped army does not always win the war. 
Ken Hatfield, who has since taken over the comrols at Arkansas, was the head coach ofAir Force during the last two years, in which time the falcons have won many battles. In the last two campaigns, the Falcons have managed to finish with 8-S and 10-2 records, including two victorious bowl appearances. 
"The main thing that helped us was that the team was put first, not the individual," Hatfield says. "Everyone had faith, and never doubted that. The players would never question the coaches, their teammates or themselves, even when the team lost." Hatfield thinks that the key to teamwork is for the players not to think about individual matchups, but to consider that the whole team is playing against the opposing team. "A personal perspective doesn't work in football," he preaches. 
Maybe the measuring stick that compares size and speed of football teams has heen overemphasized. Hte quality of the man underneath the helmet and pads also means a lot, according to the 
former Falcon coach. 
"I don't think anything will change with this group of men from the team we had last sea..'ion," says Hatfield. "They are extremely hard-working kids and they have a positive team concept. That's how it was throughout my career there." 
One can find the most obvious evidence ofhow well this philosophy works when he compares the falcons to the Irish in their matchups in the previous two years. 
For instance, Air Force came into Notre Dame Stadium last year with an offensive line that had four ofits five starters weighing in at 240 pounds or less. Notre Dame was guaranteed not to be overwhelmed by the size ofthe Falcon players. But Air force still moved the Irish defensive line back far enough to rack up 283 yards on the ground. On the other hand, Notre Dame settled for 50 fewer yards than the Falcons, despite the fact that Notre Dame's offensive line held a hard-to-imagine 50-pounds-per-person size advantage over the defensive line ofAir Force. 
Maybe good teams do not read the press clippings about how much better their opponents are than they are. Maybe they do, and that ignites their spirit even more. "No one up here felt we had a chance, which only helped us," Hatfield said after defeating the Irish la..'>t season. 
"That was one of the greatest moments for us as a team," recalls 
Hatfield. "Coming up to South Bend and coming from behind in the fourth quarter really took a lot ofcharacter. I remember telling them at halftime that whoever could outpower the other team would win. They really dug down deep to win that one." 
Air Force has been tough on other good teams besides Notre Dame. The Western Athletic Conference may not be a conference ofperennial football powers, but four of the other seven teams in the conference have enrollments of over 24,000. Air Force, 
see FALCONS, page 10 
As Notre Dame fans are well-aware, the falcons run the wishbone formation -and they run it as well as any team in the country. 
One factor that will work in Notre Dame's favor is that the Falcons don't pass particularly well or often ­their offense averages just over 12 pass attempts per game. The Irish have had their problems with game breaking, big-play quarterbacks this season, but Air Force has no such player. The Falcon offense lives by the run, and it moves the ball well on the ground. 
Air force has three talented running backs to high­light its ground attack. Sophomore fullback Pat Evans ( 75 carries for 498 yards and three touchdowns) has been the Falcons' beast of burden this year, but senior halfbacks Jody Simmons (56 rushes, 391 yards, four touchdowns) and Mike Brown ( 30 carries for 13 7 yards and one touchdown) will also see plenty of action. Brown, who has missed two games this season with a knee strain, killed the Irish last year by gaining 148 yards in a 23-22 Falcon upset. He also set an NCAA record with an average of8. 5 yards per carry in 1983. 
At the quarterback spot, DeBerry will choose be­tween two juniors. Brian Knorr is the better passer, with 19 completions on 33 attempts for 339 yards, five touchdowns, and only one interception this season. He also can run with the ball (56 carries for 237 yards and five touchdowns to date), but he has been bothered by 
see PREVIEW, page 10 
Scott Grooms 
NO quarterback 



F 
AIRFORCE 
~1s~tr~ Xfra=========================================O=c=to=b=er=1=2,=1=98=4=·=pa=g=e==11 


Mike Perrino 
Linemen may be noticed only when they make error, but N D tackle doesn't care 

game on the ground this year, with no back yet breaking the 70-yard barrier. With the abundance oftalent in the Irish backfield, that num­ber should be considerably higher. 
Sophomore tailback Alonzo Jefferson is doubtful for Saturday's game after spraining his foot against Miami, but the other running backs, Allen Pinkeu, Mark Brooks and Chris Smith, are healthy and ready to go -which is key for the Irish because they will need a strong ground game to score against the Falcons. 
"Our goal is still to come back and run the ball better than we have," says Faust. "We've had some injuries on our offensive line, with Larry Williams and Tom Doerger not at full strength, and Ron Plantz (strained knee ligaments) out now. But we've got to do a better job up front." 
Sophomore split end Alvin Miller remains out of the lineup with strained knee ligaments, but wideouts Milt jackson, joe Howard, Tim Brown, and Reggie Ward are all available. 
The Falcons are no pushover on defense. In fact, their defense currently ranks 20th in the nation, allowing 294.5 yards per game 
( 129.8 of those on the ground). Leading tacklers for Air Force are sophomore linebacker Terry Maki, sophomore safety Scou Thomas, junior linebacker Mike Chandler, and senior tackle Chris Funk. It was Funk who saved Air Force's victory over NO last year by block­ing Mike Johnston's last-second field-goal attempt. 
The kicking game and specialty teams: 
'The Falcons boast a couple of productive kickers in sophomore punter Mark Simon ( 4 3. 5· yard average) and placekicker Carlos Mateos (five-for-six on field goals, with a 54-yarder against Utah). 
For the Irish, sophomore placekicker John Carney has been per­fect all season (six-of-six on field goals, 12-for-12 on PAT's). Punter 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
lbe job of an offensive lineman is certainly not one of the more glamorous ones on a football team. An offensive lineman rarely ever seems to gain recogni­tion until things go poorly. When the quarterback has good protection and the running backs are gaining yardage, not much seems to be said. But when these things break down, the linemen begin to be noticed. 
Most might think that this is a fairly accurate statement, but Notre Dame strong tackle Mike Perrino believes otherwise. "There's no individual credit really ever given," says Perrino. "But, ifyou have a good offensive line, people are going to acknowledge it. If the backs aren't gaining yardage, people will point fingers at the line, but, overall, I think we get credit when credit is due. And I think we get blamed when we deserve to be blamed." 
As a rookie, Perrino made only one varsity appear­ance. But in 1983, he received a chance to start against Colorado when Larry Williams was moved to quick tackle in relief of an injured Mike Shiner. Perrino then started all remaining games except against Penn State. 
Only Neil Maune and Mike Kelley had more minutes ofplaying time than Perrino had in 1983. Last season's rushing game was one o~the most potent in the country, and Perrino was recognized as a solid contributor in making that effort possible. 
Such contributions require a lineman to exert a great amount of energy and one has to wonder what motivates hi~ and makes him feel like he really is contributing to the team. After all, he is playing a low-key position where individual efforts are not easily singled out by the average observer. But, like most linemen, Perrino has learned to grade himself on his performance. 
"I take more pride in my run blocking," says the 6-5, 274-pound junior. "When I'm doing a good job it makes me proud to know that maybe they're calling a play that they run off me a lot. And, ifthat doesn't happen, it gets me down a little, too. You feel like you're more a part ofthe offense that way. When pass-blocking, though, only when we screw up does anybody really notice. You're just fencing a guy out." 
After five games in 1984, pass blocking has not been a major problem for the Notre Dame line. Quarterback Steve Beuerlein has been given sufficient time to connect on 6 7 of his 106 tosses for 894 yards and five touchdowns. The running game, however, is having its problems. The Irish have averaged just 119 yards per game this season. Last year the rushing game ac­counted for 239 yards per game. 
"I've heard some pretty knowledgeable people say that an offensive line should be your most consistent unit on the football team," says the native ofElmhurst, Ill. "There should be a minimum ofinjuries so that the starting five guys can be used to playing together. Timing is really important." 
Injuries to Tom Doerger and Ron Plantz, as well as Williams' inability to practice regularly, have certainly taken away a lot of the necessary consistency for the Irish. "Alternating people in and out affects the way we run-block," explains Perrino. "We get to know what to 
• • • Preview 
Mike Viracola had a poor game against Miami, but is still averaging 
40.5 yards per kick. 
Air Force also has outstanding return teams. The Falcons are fourth in the nation in kickoff returns ( 26.2 yards per runback) and fifth in punt returns ( 14.9 yards per return). Scott Thomas averages 
15.1 yards per punt return for the Falcons, good for sixth in the NCAA. 
The Irish have had success returning kickoffs so far, averaging 24.2 yards per return, the 1Oth-best figure in the nation. 
The keys to the game: 
Faust summed it up pretty well earlier this week. "We can't waste time worrying about losing to Miami," said the Irish coach, "because we've still got a rough road ahead ofus. Air Force has beaten us two years in a row, and we're just going to have to play with more consis­tency on both sides of the line to beat them. They come to play, as we've seen the last two seasons, and they'll come in here thinking there's no reason they can't beat us again. We've had some tough injuries, and it's no fun to lose Beuerlein, especially as well as he has played for us. But we've just got to play better football." 
The loss ofBeuerlein detracts from the versatility ofthe offense. If the Irish cannot make up the difference via the running game, it will be a long afternoon for Notre Dame fans. 
Once again, the injury-riddled Irish will need to get the crowd behind them early and maintain their support by playing consistent football -something they failed to do last week, and the fans let them know it. The Irish will need a strong, error-free effort on both sides of the line of scrimmage if they are to send the fans home happy this week. 
expect from each other. When an offensive line is 
working well, it just clicks. But because some people 
haven't had as much practice as they should have due 
to various injuries, things just aren't going as smoothly. 
"Another thing I think is that Allen (Pinkett) hasn't 
been able to practice as much. He's a great running 
back, but he hasn't had the practice ofseeing where 
the holes open and when they're going to open. Last 
year, the offensive line was clicking and he was able to 
rely on us a little more, but now I think he's a little 
more hesitant. He's not sure what's going to happen." 
Although individual recognition from the fans for an 
offensive lineman does not come regularly, a coach is 
surely one person who is able to evaluate each player. 
And Mike Perrino has kept his coach satisfied. "Mike 
has played well for us. He's a good pass protector and 
he has been fairly effective on the run," says head 
offensive line coach Carl Selmer. "His strength and his 
size are his strong points. But we do want to work on 
his quickness and on keeping him lower when he 
blocks." 
Perrino likewise is aware ofhis personal abilities and 
is always working to improve. "Last year I'd have to say 
that I was probably a better run-blocker," he com­
ments. "This year I think my pass blocking is a little 
better. With my run blocking, though, I think I know 
what I'm doing wrong and I think I did a lot better job 
in the Miami game." 
Certainly offensive linemen take great pride in 
seeing backs gain yardage or the quarterback complete 
a pass. And, just the same, they enjoy watching their 
teammates on defense make bone-crushing tackles. 
But through it all, one has to wonder ifthese offensive 
linemen ever wish they could share in some of the 
glory ofrunning for a touchdown or tackling an 
opponent. 
"I don't think about that too much anymore," says Perrino. "There were some schools that recruited me as a defensive lineman, but I don't think I would have been a very good one. I think I might have grown out of it by getting too big and not being agile enough to be a good defensive lineman. But, ofcourse, every offensive lineman dreams about picking up a fumble and running for a touchdown." , 
Perrino always dreamed ofcoming to Notre Dame and he came here for that reason as well as several others. "My great uncle played here, it's close to home so my parents can see me play, and Notre Dame provides great national exposure," says the economics major. "It's really a first-class program both on and off the field." 
After Notre Dame, Perrino would like to auend law school. And, ofcourse, the thought ofprofessional football is always in the back ofhis mind. "The money in pro football now is too good to pass up," he says. "There are not too many college graduates who can make that kind of money their first or second year out of school" 
Mike Perrino and other offensive linemen like him may not gain vast amounts of recognition for their hard work and perseverence. But take them away and the glory bestowed on quarterbacks and running backs will soon fade as well. 

Fisher DeBerry AFA head coach 
First Year 4-2 
AIR FORCE October 12, 1984 ·page 12


lnsb---Extra
--~ __
.... .-­
NOTRE DAME VS. AIR FORCE 




THE STATISTICS
THE GAME 
Last 
GAME: Fighting Irish vs. Air Force Falcons TEAM STAnSnCS ND OPP PASSING G NO CO PCT INT YDS TD 
SITE: Notre Dame Stadium ( 59,075) 
TOTAL OFFENSE YARDS 1528 1714 Bauerlein 5 106 67 .632 8 894 5

Year's
TIME: 11:20 EST; Saturday, Oct. 13, 1984 
Total Plays 325 362 Grooms 1 3 2 .667 0 17 0 
Yards per Play 4.7 4.7 Andrysiak 1 0 0 .000 0 0 0 Yards per Game 305.6 342.8 
1V-RADIO: ESPN live National Telecast 
Announcers TBA 
PENALTIES-YARDS 29-216 25-237 NO 5110 70 .636 8 935 5 FUMBLES-LOST 13-6 12-8 OPP 5 121 74 .612 6 934 6

Game
WNDU-TV(Ch. 16) 
TOTAL FIRST DOWNS 93 98 By Rushing 41 46 RUSHING G NO YDS AVG TO LG
Jeff Jeffers and Jack Nolan 
ByPassing 46 47 By Penalty 6 5 Pinkett 5 90 315 3.5 6 20
November 11,11183 Air Force 0 10 0 13 -23
TCS/Metrosports/ESPN Replay Network 
THIRD DOWNS-CONV 65-31 69-29 Jefferson 5 29 93 3.2 2 10
Harry Kalas and George Connor 
Notre Dame o 7 9 6 -22 
Percentage .477 .420 Brooks 5 22 89 4.1 2 12 POSSESSION TIME 141:35 158:25 Smith 5 18 57 3.2 0 11 
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network 
Minutes per Game 28:23 31:37 Flemons 1 10 31 3.1 0 15
Scoring 
Monahan 3 2 17 8.5 0 10
Tony Roberts, Pat Sheridan, Luther Bradley 
AF • Pavlich 25 FG 
SCORING GTD PAR-PAS FG TP Miller 2 1 13 13.0 0 13
AF • Kershner 2 run (Pavkch kick) 
NO ·Pinkett 7 run (Johnston kick) 
WNDU-AM 1500 
DeHueck 1 3 11 3.7 0 6 NO • Johnston 37 FG 
Pinkett 5 7 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 42 Starns 3 1 5 5.0 0 5
Notre Dame 11, Air Force 2
SERIES: 
NO • Jackson 9 passfrom Kiel (kick blocked) 
Carney 5 0 12-12 0-0 0 6-6 30 Machtolf 1 2 3 1.5 0 2 November 19, 1983 
NO • Howard 67 pass from Kiel (pass failed) 
Jackson 5 3 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 18 Carter 1 2 1 0.5 0 1 AF -Kilby 48 pass from Louthan (kick failed) 
LAST MEETING: 
Jefferson 5 2 0-0 1-0 0 0-0 14 Jackson 5 1 -4 -4.0 0 -4
Air Force 23, Notre Dame 22 
AF • Kershner 1 run (Pavlich kick) 
Brooks 5 2 0-0 o-o o o-o 12 Grooms 1 1 -12 -12.0 0 -12 Ward 4 1 o-o o-o o o-o 6 Beuerlein 5 27 -28 -0.1 0 18
RANKINGS: Notre Dame unranked, Air Force unranked 
AF NO First downs 22 22 
Chura 1 0 1-1 0-0 0 1-1 4
TICKETS: Game is sold out 
Ball age 5 0 0-0 0-0 1 0-0 2 NOTRE DAME 5 209 595 2.9 10 20 Net Yards Rushing 283 233 
Rushing attemp1s 60 36 
VonWyl 1 0 1-1 o-o o o-o 1 OPPONENTS 5 237 780 3.3 6 48 Net Yards Passing 124 288 Passes romp-attempted 7-12 17-27 
NO 5 15 14-14 1·0 0 6-6129 DEFENSE TMTL-YDS PBU FR BK 
Had intercepted 0 2 
OPP 5 12 8-9 1-3 1 6-8102
Total Net Yards 407 521 
Kovaleski 59 1-3 2 0 0
Fumbles-lost 1-1 1.0


THE SCHEDULE 
RECEIVING G NO YDS AVG TO LG Furjanic 48 0-0 1 0 0 Punta-average 5-438 3-42.7 
Penalties-yards 6-43 !H19 
Johnson 38 o-o 1 0 0 

~· 
~ 
~· 
~ 
t 
f 
} r 
{ 
f 
( 
NOTRE DAME SEPT. 8lost to Purdue, 23-21 SEPT. 15 def. Mich. St., 24-20 SEPT. 22 def. Colorado, 55-14 SEPT. 29 def. Missouri, 16-14 OCT. 6 lost to Miami, 31-13 OCT. 13 AIR FORCE OCT. 20 SOUTH CAROUNA OCT. 27 at L.S.U. NOV. 3 Navy at Meadowlands NOV.17PENNSTATE NOV. 24 at Southern Cal 
AIR FORCE 
SEPT. 1 def. San Diego St., 34-16 SEPT. 8 def. N. Colorado, 75-7 SEPT. 15lost to Wyom., 26-20 SEPT. 22 lost to Utah, 28-1 7 SEPT. 29 def. Col. St., 52-10 OCT. 6 def. Navy, 29-22 OCT. 13 at Notre Dame OCT. 20 BRIGHAM YOUNG NOV. 3 at Army NOV. 10 at New Mexico NOV. 24 at Texas-El Paso 
lndlvldUII LMdelw 
RUSHING· Air Force: Brown 16-148; Kershner21· n; Louthan 1~39; Sunquist 3-15; Jones 1-4; Notre Dame: Pinkett 27-197; Smith 6-33; Brooks 1-4; Kiel 2-·1; 
PASSING • Air Force: Louthan 6-1 1-D.119: Zotninger 1-1-0,5; Notre Dame: Kiel 16-22·1.285; Beuertein 1-~ 1,3; 
RECEIVING· Air Force: Kirby 4-HlO: Rose 1·10; Brown 1-9; Cameron 1-5; Notre Dame: Pinkett ~93; Jackson ~58; Howard 2-90: Smith 2-19; 
Attendance· 59.075 
Bavaro  5  17  218  12.8  0  24  McCabe  34  o-o  0  1  0  
Jackson  5  16  187  11.7  3  31  Banks  30  1·2  0  0  0  
Brown  5  11  135  12.3  0  19  Gann  27  9-77  0  1  0  
Pinkett  5  9  109  12.1  1  40  Ball age  27  o-o  3  0  0  
Howard  4  5  78  15.6  0  26  Wilson  24  0-0  1  1  0  
Jefferson  5  3  40  13.3  0  27  Kleine  24  4-14  0  2  0  
Ward  4  2  84  42.0  1  74  Lawrence  22  0-0  3  2  0  
Smith  5  3  38  12.7  0  18  Griffin  17  2-5  0  0  1  
Miller  2  1  15  15.0  0  15  Golic  15  1-4  0  0  0  
Brooks  5  1  13  13.0  0  13  DiBernardo  14  0-0  2  0  0  
Gray  4  1  11  11.0  0  11  Figaro  12  0-0  0  0  0  
Cusack  5  1  7  7.0  0  7  Dorsey  12  0-0  1  0  0  
Francisco  11  o-o  0  0  0  
NOTRE DAME  5  70  935  13.4  5  74  Haywood  10  0-0  0  0  2  
OPPONENTS  5  74  934  12.6  6  50  Dingens  9  2·12  0  1  0  



{ ( 
{,.. 
t' PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS(?)
i 
t 
r 
Each week, the Observer sports
( 
staff, a random student picked at
( 
the discretion of the sports editor I and some well-known figure in the ( Notre Dame community predict the 
outcome of the week's major col­
{ 
lege football games. Records are
( 
compiled as to how each person
I 
does against the spread. In other
i 
f' words, it isn't enough to pick the 
r I, 
winner of a given game. The person { must pick the winner and give the underdog points. Home team is in
i 
( CAPS. 
WEST VIRGINIA over Syracuse by 7 MICHIGAN STATE over Indiana by 14.5 OHIO STATE over Illinois by 7 SOUTII CAROLINA over Pittsburgh by 7. S Florida over TENNESSEE by 7 Iowa over PURDUE by 4. 5 
( Penn State over ALABAMA by 3.5 { NEBRASKA over Missouri by 11.5 r TEXAS over Oklahoma by 3 
( 
Washington over STANFORD by 7. 5 
( 
BOSTON COLLEGE over Temple by 14 FLORIDA STATE over Auburn by 4 LOUISIANA STATE over Vanderbilt by 5 NOTRE DAME over Air Force by 10 
I' 
( 
! 
0 . 
•
:·''' . 

. 
Larry Burke Theron Roberts Jeff Blumb Ed Domansky Mike Sullivan Larry Gallo Matt Bradley Sports Writer Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor Sports Wnter Sports Editor Guest Celebrity Random Student 32-35 28-39 27-40 24-43 23-44 2~38 34-33 .478 .418 .403 .358 .343 .433 .507 (last week-5-9) (last week-7-7) 
Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Orangemen Orangemen Spartans Spartans Spartans Hoosiers Hoosiers Spartans Spartans Illini Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Panthers Panthers Gamecocks Gamecocks Panthers Gamecocks Gamecocks 
Gators Gators Volunteers Gators Gators Volunteers Gators Hawkeyes Boilers Boilers Boilers Hawkeyes Boilers Hawkeyes Lions lions Lions Lions Tide Tide lions Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Tigers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers Sooners Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns Longhorns Sooners Huskies Cardinal Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies Huskies 
Owls Eagles Eagles Owls Eagles Eagles Eagles Tigers Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Tigers Seminoles Tigers Commodores Tigers Tigers 'rigers Commodores Tigers Tigers 
Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Falcons Irish Irish 


~i~~~_{)__i__ll__t__________________
F_rid-ay_,o_ct-ob-er_l_2,_19-84_-_p_ag_e_13 
The United Way woi-ks for all Americans 
The l 1nited Way Campaign seems to have freed itself this year from the misdirected incentive, the poor organization and the half-hearted student gov­ernment commitment which plagued it in the past. 
"Dorm competition," giving a "two-dollar fair share," and last year's "giving what you can" campaign all failed as fund-raising incentive programs for the United Way. 
But this year, with a new commitment from student government, with new ideas for fundraising events, and a focus on the real reason for giving, the United Way Campaign has found an identity. 
This year's campaign under the direction ofTom Lezynski and Steve Burt is organized and imaginative. They have fostered grass-root support for the cam­paign by seeking out representatives in each dorm-people willing to set goals offive, six, or seven hundred dollars and work to achieve them. 
In addition to collecting door-to-door, these representatives have turned to the hall councils for help in raising money. The dorm commitments include donating proceeds from this week's video games, pizza sales and movies. Also, three women's dorms are sponsoring ice-cream social study breaks. The most successful dorm-sponsored eve·nt thus far has been the pre-game dunking booth sponsored by Dillon Hall last weekend which raised more than $500. 
This year's organizers have left no stone unturned in providing people with opportunities to give. They have sent letters to more than 100 clubs and organ­izations asking for donations, have solicited the help of the rectors and RA's in getting donations, and before the Air Force game will have cans at each of the concession booths across campus. 
Although the campaign officially ends this Sunday, donations will continue to be collected. And on Nov.2 Flanner, Grace, Pasquerilla West and Pasquerilla East will sponsor a dance in Lafortune with all proceeds going to the United Way. 
lbe incentive to give for this year's campaign is simple. Your gift to the United Way, little as it may seem, goes toward helping a whole lot ofpeople. 
The United Way is involved with 35 different agencies in the South Bend area, providing health and rehabilitation services, emergency and educational services, family and child-care services and recreational and educational pro~ grams for young people. 
This year, as opposed to last, the campaign has set a goal. The goal is $12,500. This translates to less than $2 per student. Just because your contribution might seem small doesn't mean that it's not iQlportant. As Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students we have, for the most part, been blessed with much. The United Way is one significant way we can share what we have with those truly in need. 

The best solution to a no-win situation 
During October break, work will begin on closing offthe drive in front ofthe west entrance of LeMans at Saint Mary's. The road between LeMans and Moreau Halls will be replaced with a sidewalk. It could be a perfect plan that will make that bottleneck area safe for pedestrians and get rid of the jam-up of cars that constantly squeeze into the center of campus. The change will be an esthetic improvement as well. 
But the plan is not foolproof. The College and the Campus Signage Commit­tee hopes that traffic will be routed from the main road to the north road behind Angela. Students, knowing full well that the shortest distance between two points is a straight line, will probably opt for the alternative: taking Saint Mary's main drive to the road in front ofRegina to get to LeMans parking lot. In the attempt to eliminate one bottleneck, another may be in the making, as traffic increases in both directions by Regina. In fact, the road in front of Regina is even more narrow which could create conditions more hazardous than those by LeMans now. 
Despite the inherent imperfections and potential problems, The Observer commends the committee on devising the best solution to a no-win situation. The College is doing what it can to facilitate re-routing with the addition of lights to the North road to improve visibility. h will be the responsibility ofthe faculty, staff and students with cars on campus to make the plan foolproof. 
-The Observer 
Got an opinion, drop us a line 
Viewpoint not only provides you encourages all ofits readers to fully an opportunity to respond to tbe e.xpore and voice tbetr opinions. columns, articles and Illustrations Simply sendyour letter toP. 0. Box Q printed this newspaper, but tbrougb or deliever it to our office. Letters 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you should be no longer than 150 words can address issues wblcb have not In length and guest columns should been raised to your satisfaction In notexceed600 words. All works must tbts newspaper. Viewpoint be signed. 
----------------------------------------------------------------·----­



The rights and duties of America's youth 
A bill intended to curb alcohol-related traf· fie deaths was recently signed into law by President Reagan. This new law requires each state to raise its minimum age oflegal alcohol 
Charles Boudreaux 
only solitaire 
consumption to 21 or, beginning in 1986, to face the incremental loss of federal highway funds. 
I will be 21 in late 1986 and, presumably, be free of this form of age-based discrimination. Nevertheless, I still have two quarrels with this law. The first quarrel concerns the contin· ued encroachment of the federal government upon the jurisdiction of our state govern­ments. The federal government's scope is con· stitutionally designed to be limited to a specific number of points; according to the tenth amendment, those rights not covered under the Constitution are reserved to the states. More and more often, however, we see Congress use its "power ofthe purse" to affect state law. Take the national 55-mile-per-hour speed limit, for example. This is another federal "law" that attempts to link the saving oflives to a threatened cut in federal highway funds. I believe that this law is based on good intentions, as is the one concerned with "underage" drinkers; however, I fail to see why states with large isolated areas, such as Montana and Nevada, should be forced to maintain speed limits well below what would be considered reasonable and prudent for their particular states. Similarly, I believe th.u the age restriction on alcohol is another step over the constitutional line. 
My other quarrel with the 21-and-under al· cohollaw is the more insidious ofthe two. My problem with this law is not the minimum drinking age itself; statistics may well indicate that a higher-than-average proportion of traf­fic accidents involve and/or are caused by in· ebriated individuals between the ages of 18 and 21. My problem, rather, is the glaring double standard that exists between the law and the rest of my rights and responsibilities during this three-year period. Though my gov­ernment believes that I am incapable ofdrink· ing responsibly, it holds me responsible for every other action I might take at this time. At 19, I have the right to vote, the right to drive, and the right to select my political representa· tives. I also have the responsibility to serve my country in some way and to be tried as an adult in its courts. Although responsibility should be proportional to freedom, I seem to be carrying more burden than blessing. 
Let us consider what responsibilities my 
government believes I am capable ofholding. At 19, I can choose to marry and raise children. I have the privilege and the responsi­bility of choosing my political leaders. I am a legal adult in the eyes of the nation's courts. In short, I am a citizen ·'a second-class citizen, as I am denied full freedom and responsibility due to age. 
As a male citizen, I am called to serve in our nation's military forces, should such service become necessary. It seems to me that the decision to kill strangers on some foreign bat­tleground is at least as important as the deci­sion to drink alcohol and drive, ifnot more so. If this nation is so bent on saving lives, we should have only "responsible" people (supposedly those who are at least 21 ) in our military, as well as on our highways: an even­handed set of laws is required. 
The obligations of marriage, parenthood suffrage, legal responsibility, and military ser­vice (a possibility for at least half of us) seem to demand a telling responsibility from all of us who find ourselves in the legislated nether­world that lies between legal-political-social responsibility and full citizenship. It seems, then, that only one of the following two scenarios is possible: ~. 
I. People between 18 and 21 years of age are not responsible adults. If they do not have the sense to exercise restraint when they are using alcohol, they surely cannot handle the task of choosing their leaders or of choosing to kill fellow human beings in a war. The ages on all of these laws should be raised to a uni· form 21 and the juvenile courts should extend their jurisdiction through age 21, as well. 
2. Those people between 18 and 21 years of age are adults who should take on the full rights and responsibilities reserved to all other adults, including the right to drink responsibly. 
My government seems to be giving me a heavy dose of responsibility whitt" cunailing my freedom. I believe that this legislated con· tradiction according to age treads the quick­sands ofhypocrisy, however well-intentioned it may be. Let's face it: we could end all alcohol-related accidents · if we eliminated drinking or driving altogether. To target a single segment of the population with this narrow-sighted view of responsibility is un­just. I hope that some more equitable decision is made in the near future, preferably one in which my freedoms and my responsibilities at age 18 are both recognized. I support the right to drink responsibly: the two important words of this claim, of course, are "right" and "responsibly." 
Charles Boudreaux is a junior Program of Liberal Studies major and a regular con­tributor to Viewpoint. 

"ielVP.~O_i_n_t_____________________________________________Fr_id_a~y~,o_c~t~ob_e~r_I~2~,1~9~8-4_-~P~ag~e~I-4 
On what to do to keep the Russians from coming 
Question: How many American books have been written like Sinclai( Lewis' satiric novel, "It Can't Happen Here," but on the Soviet "it," . 
Max Lerner 
The Lerner column· 
) 
I' 
not the Nazi? Answer: None. George Orwell made his immortal try in his "1984", but no American. 
Now Robert Conques.t, a prime
'' 
Sovietologist at the Hoover Institution, along withJon Manchip White, have given us "What to Do When the Russians Come" (Stein and Day). It is neither fiction nor fooling but sober stuff, in fact pretty squafe. But its impact is 
1) hair-raising. The candidates won't be debating the ques­
'\ 
tion the authors put. Reagan is now wary of it,
·~ 
I , while Mondale must think it a crazy provoca­tion, raised only by right-wing extremists. The campaign offers everything but perspective without which it makes little sense. 
I, 
The book makes scary sense, starting with 
the Russians taking over the intelligence and information agencies, setting up arrests, inter­rogations, labor camps. There are few chances ofescaping the country or places to escape to. The rest is a question ofreadiness and waiting, for what and who is to come -a matter of having a bicycle ready and some food and warm socks stored away, and cigarettes, and some gold hidden to speed the process ofpos­sible flight. 

The novel chapter is the most matter offact one, an a!phabetical listing "by profession, optnton and habit," from "Academic," "Accountant... 'Journalist," to "Socialist" and "Youth " 
It is a "Survivor's Guide'" for each, and it is hard to find much cheer for any except per­haps under "Criminal" and "Sadist." The sheer economy of the advice adds a dry, satirical edge to an American version of what the aut­hors have gleaned from the actual experience ofsurvivors and non-survivors in East Europe and wherever else the Russians have come to take over. 
The crowning discussion is on the "quality of life" to be maintained: how to organize and minimize your relationship, how to mute your opinions and calibrate your emotions -and still retain your humanity. 
Overdone? Scarcely. Anyone who knows the literture of the Czechs, Poles, Ukrainians, Hungarians, Afghans, Vietnamese, and on the dissenters, resisters and refuse-niks in the So­viet Union itself, will be impressed by the low key of the book. 
That goes also for the brief "Afterword" on why the threat is real -because Soviet arming is "wholely disproportionate to their eco­nomic capacity," because they know how to expand their power through surrogates and puppets, because they are "single minded in pressing forward" and finally "because the West misunderstands this." 
That last "because" is broad enough for the calvary of an entire literature to gallop through, on what to do to keep the Russians from coming. 
Ifit were not our "misunderstanding," this little book would not he scorned (as it is likely) but given a small niche as a minor minority classic. Instead, our preoccupation is with nuclear extinctionism, as in "The Day After," which is celebrated and lamented in a political vacuum. 
What keeps the Russians from using. their missile stockpile is deterrence, which would desolate them too. But there is not such deter­rence that operates to prevent the "coming," which the authors have at once boldly im­agined and scrupulously described. 
(C) J984,LOSANGELES TIMES SYNDICATE 

Contradora group deserves a chance 
Last week fourteen rectors, vice-rectors, and representatives of the student body belonging to CSUCA (Superior Council of Central American Universities) visited several 
Stanley M. Ibarra 
guest column 
American universities.The rectors of the Na­tional University of Panama and of Nicaragua, the Vice-Rector, and the President of the stu­dent body of the University of Honduras visited Notre Damc.Despite a diversity of opinions, their common sentiment remained to seek peace for Central America, principally 
through the efforts of the Contadora group. 
Named after the Panamanian resort in the Pacific Ocean, and born a little less than two years ago, the Contadora group involves the commitment of the foreign ministers of Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela, and Panama to achieve peace for the region. Certainly, there is no such thing as a clearcut formula to solve the Central American crisis, but this has not stopped those countries from seeking solu­tions for the political problems of the region. 
The basic tenets of the Contadora group are: the stress upon non-interference from the great powers, the admissions of a pluralistic way of organizing the political life in the region and the important role assigned to each of the states ofthe area. 
The Contadora group is especially con­cerned with the role played by the U.S. and 
U.S.S.R. in the region. Such geopolitics only ag­gravates what is already a complicated situa­tion. Therefore, the Contadora agreement emphasizes the withdrawal of all external forces as the first step towards the establish­ment of a favorable climate in which peace can be obtained. 
Adopting cold war rhetoric, the United States argues that Nicaragua will not abide by the agreement and will continue to be utilized by Cuba for the spread of Communism in the region. Furthermore, the United States has already convinced Costa Rica, Honduras and El Salvador not to sign the agreement. Given that the Contadora countries are on the verge of signing the agreement, and also that the United States has m.·n·r .,, 1\J.ISIY sup1 orted the Contadora ini riati, c thi-. maneuver t·omes as no suprise. _ 
In their messagt.• th• rector-. ort: calling for 
solidarity and support tor the Contadora ini­tiative. They ask that the content of the agree­ment become a matter of widespread public awareness. Implicitly, this stance constitutes an appeal for the transformation of the tradi­tional perspective and criteria used to depict and evaluate the fate of Central America, and especially undermines the notion that the reality of Central America is best rendered in terms of the spread of international com­munism. Instead, the social, economic and po­litical root'! of the conflict, as pinpointed by many observers in the area challenges how genuine is the commitment of the major powers to the overall well being ofthe region. Support offered to dictatorships either of the left or right side is unacceptable, as well as the claim that one side is right and the other wrong. At stake, ultimately, is the survival of the p~ople of Central America. 
In the end, the Contadora Agreement offers a truce that will bring all parties involved to the negotiation table. Thus, the message ofthe rectors remains: Contadora deserves a chartce! 
Stanley Muscbett Ibarra is a graduate gov­ernment student atNotre Dame. 
'. 

A president can accomplish total disarmament 
I. There is a story of a shipowner who, after hearing that his passenger carrier i~ not seaworthy, lets it go to sea packed with pas­sengers anyway. The question is this: Is he 
Tim Hogan 
guest column 
morally responsible for taking the lives of the passengers, even if they somehow return home? Absolutely. When do we take responsi­bility for destroying God's Creation? After it blows up? Absolutely not. I believe that we, as Americans, are already collectively guilty for blowing up the world, as we not only allow the mechanisms of destruction to exist, and continue to be built, but we continue to sup­port a man who has vowed to continue build­ing them. 
Based on our Christian perspective, I don't believe there is any way to justify supporting the building of these weapons, or any man who docs. Nuclear weapons are the common denominating problem in our world today. People still die of starvation, yet we cut our social programs and spend more on nuclear arms. How can we worry about unborn fetuses when there are 55,000 warheads pointed and ready to abort five billion already born and fully developed fetuses? 
I believe the leaders of the world have too much pride, are scared to death and arc playing scared-men's games. They call these games something different every year ( ABM TREATY, SALT, START, START II, etc.).I don't think we should settle for anything less than a president that will fly to the Kremlin and not come home until he has achieved total dis­armament. I think it is ridiculous to underes­timate the ingenuity of the American people and believe that there is not one person that could get this task accomplished. 
Many argue that because we do not kno" enough, we should let the decisions be made by those that do. 
Why don't we know enough? If we don't, it is our own fault for not finding out. Maybe we can't; maybe there is just so much information that it would be too dangerous to the security of our nation for us to find out. If by some stretch of the tmagination that is the case, the b('l we can do is pray that Reagan has as much of God's presl·nl c when making these deci­sions as he does at election time. I think we do know all that need-. to he known about the situation. Jltere is no logic to possesing nu­clear weapons. Even in the event that the Soviets do shoot at us, could we morally jus· tify shooting back? Not from a Christian per­spective anyway. In the c:vent that we somehow secretly find out that they are about to shoot at us, and we do (somehow) justify sending our 150 billion arsenal back at them, it has been estimated that the problems it would cause to the rest of the earth's ecology would then result in the death of at least 60 percent of the world population (us in­cluded). 
Ken Keyes, in his book, The Hundreth Monkey, states that if we, as a society, would actively put the nuclear arms issue in the fore­front of our minds, and act in that spirit every chance we get, the day will come (and soon!) when those who directly control the fate of our world will put the arms race: to a peaceful, logical end. Will we be thinking of the exis­
•ence of our planet when we vote in Novem­ber, or will we be thinking about the ec(monn . or capital punishment, or abortion, or religion in schools. President Reagan is the first president not to sign a major arms treaty since 1958, and he has recently asked Congress for another 1.5 trillion dollars for "defense." The choice is ours. I think it's about time to reevaluate our priorities. 
Tim Hogan is a junior psychology major atNotre Dame. 

Chill the champag~e 
If Americans were to vote according to the outcome of the debates, they would have a new president but would keep Bush as their pinch-hitter. 
Joseph Murphy Wishful thinking 
Fortunately, few voters consider the debates the World Series ofpolitics; however, the Gipper sure reminded me ofthe Cubs. Last Sunday, Mondale did not win the debate; Reagan lost it. 
The President allowed Mondale to bat the entire debate without throwing any pitches at him. Mondale,unlike Garvey, is not a slugger and Reagan, unlike the Cubs, kept all of Mondale's hits in the ballpark. 
And when the Gipper shoUia have thrown Mondale out, Reagan bobbled the ball in his glove. Unlike the Cubs, Reagan's "errors" may only have cost him the game, not the series. 
As for the vice-presidential debate, George Bush, having been in a World Series before, grabbed the bat Fritz Mondale left for Geraldine Ferraro and left her to run around the podium like the San Diego chicken. 
In short, Mondale and Bush played the game to win, whereas Reagan and Ferraro were content to be on the field. The Gipper and Edith Bunker were just not as articulate or as polished as their adversaries. 
The Cubs' loss should send a message to the Reagan-Bush and Mondale-Ferraro teams: Keep the champagne chilled, but don't pop the corks. The game ain't over til the fans stuff the ballot box! 
joe Murphy is the Assistant Viewpoint Editorand a CARDINALS FAN. 
The Observer  Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame. IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Ed1tor •n Cn1ef  ButJ Voncler he1lle  Rusmess Manaqer  Cl:iv•• Td:Cif't  
Managmg Edrtor  Mark Worscheh  Controller  Mar:pat Horne  
The  Observer 1S the mdependent  newspaper publiShed by the  students ot  the  News Ed1tor  Sarah Hamilton  Adverttsmg Mdnager  Anne Cull1gan  
Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Sa1nt Mary's Coilege  It does rHJl necessar1iy  News Ed1tor  Dan McCullough  CtrculattOn Managet  Jell 0 Neill  
reflect the pohcoes of the adm1n1strat1on ol e1ther mst1!Ut10n. The ne.Ns 15 •eportt-tJ as  Samt Marr·s Ed,tor  Anne Monastyrslq  Systems Manager  ~"!VIn Williams  
accurately and as ObJeCtively as poss1ble Uns1gned editOrials represent the opm•on  Spotts ldrtor  M1chael Sull1van  
of a ma1or1ty of the Ed1t0r1al Board. Commentanes. lett~rs and the lns1rJe Column  V1e111po,,.,t Edttor  Dave Grote  
present the v1ews of thelf authors Column space 1s ava1lable 10 all m1:rT1bers of tt1e commun1ty. and the free express1on of v.:>ry1ng op1n1ons on campus. ttcrough leners.  Features Ed1tor Photo Edttor  Mary Healy Pete Laches  Founded November 3, 1966  
IS encouraged  

The Observer Friday, October 12, 1984 -page 15 





Classifieds 
The rJhsen•er ~otn: Damt: otfkt·. loGnt·d on tht: third tloor of LaFonunt: SIUdt·nt <:t·ntt:r. at'l'l.:PI~ da~~ific:ll advt:rtising from <J a.m. until~ p.m.. :1.1onday through Friday. The Ohsen•er Saint .\1a~··, offi1.T. located on tht· third floor of llaggar Colkge Centn. au:c:pt!l da,sifinb from 12:50 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mun· day though Friday Deadline for nt·xt day da,,il1nh h 5 p.m. All das~ifkds must he prepatd. t•ither 111 per.,on or hy mail. Chargt· i~ I 0 <.Tnb per five l'harac­tt:rs t:r dav. 
LOST: Camera Miami FOR SALE:: 2 AIR FORCE TIX, CALL
dunng Game. AIR FORCE GAS FOR SALE.272-6306 OH GOD. DO I NEED LSU TICKETS' Oh NEEU ltCKETS FOR AIRFORCE OR Please Call Pattie 284·5087 1808 
yes. I do' Oh. do I need them! Oh yes' S.C. GAME CALL TONY1101 Help I need 2 Penn State GA tix.lf can Yes! Like
NOTICES ························ I need them! yQ4J wouldn't ...... ···········. ...... . Atrline ticket 1-way Dallas-So. Band. $50. help please contact Ann Marie 284-4381 . believe' Oh' Yes' LSU tickets' Oh yes' OOYOUKNOWGIRALDOBOS· 277·3237, 7·10pm Oh' ()ht Aaaaaaahhhhhl!' COGAMINO? DOYOUKNOWJIM­EXPERT TYPING 277 ·8534 after 5:30 NEED LSU TICKETS!!! Please call Steve at 2658. MYGOMEZBACA? ABNEACITO
FOR RENT 
FOR SALE 1 AFSTUTICKETCALL4189 We need them. We want them. We love TOCAMEAQUI' TYPING AVAILABLE. 2'37-4082. them. Call Vince at 2538 or James at Morereel mualc at N.D.! The Bengles, a . ......... ... . 2530 . hot all-bellutlful-and-1111-bed band, JAMIE, I LOVE YOU PRINCESSFafi·A·Ciii=T rHAr.is·u·NiauE: sE:No A Furnished faculty apartment Castle Point I'VE GOT 2GA & 1 STUD FOR SC GAME playa Stepan Center Sunday Oct. 14. ·'WHATEVER WE IMAGINE' BELLY GRAM TO YOUR SHIEl<! 272· available Jan-July 1 $295 month, 272· CALL GIAN 232-0321 6 AIR FORCE GAS FOR SALE·BEST Opened for Flock of Se.gulla, lui al­1858 9805 ....... ........ ................ . OFFERS 1528, ERIC 
bum got 3.5 atara In Rolling Stone. • CARROLL HALL . A HAUNTING EX-Flying United home lor break? Call Bob at _, on MTV and hNrd on redlo at.­PERIENCE"' EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. FEMALE ROOMMATE WANTED · TO 277-6186 after 6pm for a $50 discount. Want to exchange my 4 student tickets to tlona acrou the US of A-"A Hero CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009 SHARE APARTMENT WITH THREE S.Car &Penn for 4 GAs to each game. Takes a FaD"!! Come move your fNI HEY!. .. Someone said Carroll Hall was OTHERS AT NOTRE DAME APART­Ph.272·7412. and ullvata, guya. Glrla keep your haunted. TYPING MENTS. CONTACT
$105.00/MO. boyalnllne! ......................... ···················-·········· Jackie Boggs SHEILA AT 283-3791 OR 232-0746. $$$$$$$$$$$ DAN ROCHE is finally 21 years old. Cal1
TICKETS
684·8793 I AM DESPERATE The Flxx are coming!! The Flu era him at 4254 to wtsh him Happy Birthday. I need 3 South Garolina GA's together!!' coming!! Willing to buy or barter; I have 3 singles for ATTENTION MEN OF N.D Kitty Duffy 
Will type your papers. manuscripts. etc. NEEDED 2 GA'S FOR PSLJ GA~E. WILL the same game .. Emotion is a virtue, For you it is the one turns 19 in one week-Ca" or stop by early 
WANTED
Fast and accurate. Reasonable rates PAY!!!' TO SELL 1 STUDENT TIC FOR Call Andy after 7 at 272-2873 fetal flew. The Bangles lo wish het a happy 19th and avoid the Pick up and drop ott servrce. Gall Mary SO. CAROLINA. PLEASE CONTACT I rush! B.P. 135. ex. 1267. 234·5545. HmAiPkPeY BmluRsTcHaDrAaY I l011e
JODIE 1669 Need Ride To FL for Break, call Karen I NEED 2 air force GA'S CALL JIM 3634 ya, Col It's TONY JUTTE'S birthday today girl\) EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 2720816. Help him celebrate by bringing your lips to SOUTH CAROLINA NEED 3 air force TIX GA's or STUDS VARSITY HOCKEY RETURNS IN 236 Keenan today!! Have a happy 20th TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. RIDE NEEDED TO DENVER FOR FALL Will trade 3 end zone GA's JOHN 1219 THREE WEEKS! Tony ... GONADS! TANK,JACK,NANEL 
BREAK. ANNE 284-5076 and 2 student tickets support your localhockey team . '' .•...........................' ........................... GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559 -for 3 respectable GA's. For Sale: 2 GA'a fOI' the South Carolina LIVE MUSIC!II' FRIDAY I.C.HOTI from $50,553/YEAR. NOW HIRING. YOUR • 4278 Game. Cell Melinda at 3716 10to 2LIVE!' at SR. BAR 
SYRACUSE. NY BOUND? 
AREA. CALL 805-687-6000 EXT. R-REVENGE IS SWEET: A hickey is always 
I need a ride to Syr. fOI' October break. NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S CALL JIM
91!34. ATIENTION! a hickey. LIVE MUSIC!!!! TONIGHT '!!! I.C.HOTI
can IMve anytime after the game on 3467THANKS from 1Q-2LIVE'!1at SR. BAR Saturday. Will ahare uaual. Cell Debbie 
TYPING SERVICE Need one PENN STATE GA or Student SKID ROW SKID ROW SKID ROW SKID
at 284-5011. FOR SALE: 4 AIR FORCE GA'S (together 
2n-6045 ticket. Buy or trade. Call Brian 1930. ROW' ATTENTION SMC SOPHS 
on the 30yd. line) best otter call2333 
PICKUP AND DELIVERY GHOSTBUSTERS COSTUME S.Y.R.
COME & EXPERIENCE ONE LONG ISLAND FOR FALL BREAK. IF WHO YOU GONNA CALL? NOV. 3-SA T of the AREA'S MOST EXCITING 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR SALE MIKE THAT'S WHERE YOU'RE GOING RIDE COMING SOON!!!! 
FOOD& DRINK 3336.
Woraprocessing and Typing. 272-8827 THE l.l. BUS ONLY 68.00 ROUND TRIP 
ESTABLISHMENTS 
PERSONALS 
AND ALOT OF FUN SIGN UPS SUN. Tomorrow is your chance to wtsh JEANH.l.'s Old Town Saloon, 213 Front St.. MY FRIENDS WILL DIE IF YOU DONT
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8997 OCT 14 AT 4 P.M.LA FORTUNE LOBBY O'BRYAN a Happy 20th B-day! Last year 
Niles. Mich., is now accepting applica­SELL ME AT LEAST 4 S.C.TIX. CALL 
BE THERE! this wild woman nearly spent her night in tions for Wait staff. Bartender. Hostesses. MARTY AT 3528 
Want to get to long Island for Fall break? PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234· jail·so who KNOWS what she'll be doing
Doormen, & Bus Staff. Only experienced 
Ride the Long Island club bus tor only 0363. 24 hour hotline/tree pregnancy test LONG ISLAND BUS SIGN UPS SUNDAY this year' Give her a call at 4045 or stop by
need apply. 684·7774 Help me to keep 9 men happy at the same 
68.00 Sign ups this Sunday Oct 14 at4:00 available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER OCT 14 4 PM LAFORTUNE LOBBY 212 Farley. 
time!! Sell me your South carolina tickets. 
p.m. in Lafortune Lobby. 68 00 ROUND TRIP. 
Boston area families seek quality Call 277 ·8577. 
SEX SEX SEX HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY MAUREENchildcare in exchange for room. board.
URBAN PLUNGE! I! BESIDES THAT I NEED 2 PENN ST. DID YOU SEE WHEN THE LONG IS· ..MO STUBBS' HAPPY 20TH
and a competitive salary. Please contact Hey all you patriotic, fi'Mdom-lovlng
URBAN PLUNGE!!! GA'S. IF YOU CAN SUPPLY EITHER, LAND BUS SIGN UP IS HAPPENING? BIRTHDAY ANNE THERESE STUBBS!
Kate Goldfield at 617-332-6056 or Beth Americana out there. My dlatant
URBAN PLUNGE!!! CALL JOHN D. 1841. • BE.THERE! LOVE MOM, DAD. AND CAtliN.
Ingram at 617-877-7739 or write to The coualna have juat been granted Family Exchange. Inc., 25 Lakeview Ave., permiMion to emmigrate to the U.S.
AN EXPERIENCE YOU WILL NEVER GIVE TO THE UNITED WAY!!!!' Please PETE AND RAY SERIAL 6 .. RAY, don't CLEAN UP YOUR ACT, DOOKIE HEAD! 
Newton. MA. 02160. For the flrl1 time In their IIVM, my
FORGET!!! let them call you· baldie snip snip snip.
relatives will ba frN to do and ... 
THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE Don't worry Pete. we·n get ya! BEAV: GEE WALLY, TODAY'S MARYRide or Riders needed to Toronto over thlnga that their opprealve communlat
GET YOUR APPLICATIONS FROM THE WORLD SAGRIPANTI'S 19TH BIRTHDAY.
Break.Call Vicky 284-5013. government refuNd to let them do
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS!!! needs a ride to Buffalo for Fall Break! SCHOLASTIC IS COMING' WHAT'll WE GET HER? WALLY:
before. It juat ao happen• that my Whaddaya think, huh? Ten hours in an SCHOLASTIC IS COMING! GOSH BEAV, SHE LIKES DONUTS &NEED HELP FOR TELEPHONE SALES blood relatlvM will be allowed to ...ve
KISS! KISS! itsy bitsy little car With the equivalent of SCHOLASTIC IS COMING! MENUOO ALBUMS. EDDY: I HEARD
NO EXPERINCE REQUIRED APPLY IN Ruula In • f--n,and they Nked 
Victoria Principal? I can leave anytime. SHE LIKES BARNYARD ANIMALSPERSON 9·7 2015 WESTERN AVE me to H there waa any -Y they could
F'liDAY" LIVE MUSIC of I.C.HOTT1!! Call Nance at 284-5439. Remember ... BEAV: SHUT UP EDDY. WHY DON'T
SIUTE 124 SOUTH BEND ...an All-American football game. So 
I.C.HOTT ...from 10to2....atSR.BAA THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE UNITED WAY WE JUST CALL HER AT 4570 & TELL
I •td I'd look for tlcketa fOI' the Nov. 19 
WORLD UNITED WAY HER IT'S COOL BEANS' EDDY: WELLRiders needed to and from Cleveland tor PENN STATE game. Now lt'aup to you
Marla UNITED WAY BEAV, YAGOTTAOOWHATYAGOTTA
Break. Call Paul, 4284 to Mil me two tlcketa eo that • couple
(The kissmg bandit of Senior Bar) Please give. Thank you. 00' .
of Ruulan Immigrant• can 8N • foot­
Welcome to the Plf'Sonala!!! Its not Oh...lovo to love you baby
NEED RIDE TO BOST.10/19&BACK.$$­ball game. Hyou can oblige, plene call 
much, but it Ia less gaudy than a Ohh...love to love you baby OH, MA HARDWICK!
·3691 TOM Tomlnaky et ~580 
Christmas tree ring! Love ya, Ohhh.. .love to love you baby Order a B-day cake from NO cake service Steve Ohhhh...love to love you baby at Irish Gardens! NOW'!! WANTED: 1 item of intimate female ap·
SOUTH JERSEY RIDERS NEEDED tor 1 GA TICKET FOR S. CAROLINA GAME. 
Ohhhhh...love to love you baby pare! so that Scan can be compassionate.
Oct Break call John at 234-9346 513·57 4·5314 
Ahhhhhh ..love to love you baby Wishful Thinking : Small sizes preferred. Ronald Reagan taking a political science Need a Ride 10 St. LOUIS lor Fall Break
Happy Trella Riding Stab'" Air Force GA's tor sale. Good location. -Donna Summer ......, ........... , ....... . 
Offering the Ultimate in Autumn Activities class .. THEY PEL TED US WITH ROCKS AND
Call Pat 284-4697 Call 272-0805 alter 4. Need ride to vicinity of Buffalo (St.
with Trailriding, Hayrides, Bonfires, Barn GARBAGE' 
..... . ..... Boneventure Unlveralty) for BrNk.
Dances and good ttmes' We are the Best HUNGRY?? ORDER DELIVERY SEA­
Need a ride to Ft.Wayne tor break.Will DESPERATELY NEED LSU TIXS!! Call Wlllahare expen-. Cell Mike at 2466.
Riding Stable You'll ever try...Gall for VICE FROM THE YELLOW SUB·
help pay.Call Judy·SM~5465 Mike 2371 
reservattons in advance. 616-663-8236 MARINE 272·4453 MO-TH B·11pm is that What happened to your hair? 
.. ............................................ . 
Edwardsburg, MI. FA-SA Bpm-1 am
NEED RIDE TO MIDWAY AIRPORT FRI.. I will trade Air Force Student Tix and/or Need ride to Warren·Youngstown,Ohio 10-19:MUST LEAVE NO 12·1 :30.CALL Penn St.Student Tix and/or money for area lor Oct.Break. Will share el!­TIM 1045. PENN don't trade Go Menudo!! Beat Tigers !!
STATE GAS.If you penses.Piease call Elaine 4117(SMC) 
URBAN PLUNGE!!! 
and/or sell I hope you end up in a swirl· URBAN PLUNGE II! 
Need ride to Milwaukee or Madison for tall ing,sucktng eddy ofdespatr.Gall2777570 YOU CALL THIS A CHOICE! "NOBODY Mary, am I really THAT boring??? 
URBAN PLUNGE!!! break. Would like to leave Fri. Oct. 19. ................ ······································ FOR PRESIDENT IN 1984" Bum­Call Jay at 1655. I need two GA's or two student tix for peratlcklf'S. Only $1 to: B.P., P 0 Box BALTIMORE--I have room for one per­
LOST/FOUND 
APPLICATIONS ARE DUE TODAY AT··············· ......... ........................ PENN STATE $$$$$$$Jeff, 1004 433, Edison, NJ 08818. son going to baltimore over break call LOST ON TWO SEPARATE OCCA­THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­
RIDERS NEEDED TO BUFFALO FOR George at 1422 CERNS!!!
SIONS 3 BRACELET8-2 PEARL,1 OCT. BREAK. LEAVE 18TH. APROX. NEED 2 GAs for S. Carolina game. Ann Go King ... Beat GRE"GOLD and 1 GOLD BRACELET 
4:30 RETURN SUN. 28TH· RICK 4384 1340 PUT YOUR MONEY WHERE YOUR 
TURN YOURS IN NOWII!
DURING THE WEEKEND OF MOUTH IS! 
LITTLE TOMMY TORTER 
SEPT.22.1F FOUND PLEASE CALL NEED RIDE BACK FROM ATLANTA TO Need 4 Stud. Tix to S.Carolina game. Call 
1759.REWARD " 
NO FOR OCT. BREAK CALL JOHN Pauix3666. LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS SIGN-UPS" KISS for the United Waytt 
Kim Trenner 1 hope you understand that I 1161 SUNDAY OCT. 14. 4 p.m. LaFortune usually am not that werrd. I never triedhelp oh oh help I!! My Mickey Mou.. 
MUST SELL 4 PENN ST GAS-CALL lobby BE THERE!! round trip 68.00. watch Two nighta lodging available at South compuler dating before Tuesday night.
Watch haa run away. 1think that per­
NEED RIDE TO TX. CALL STEVE AT BUBBA OR DAVE 3278 mail for further details. Bend motel for 10/12 and 10/13 (that'a 
Next time I'll JUSt call you on the phone like 
hap• he 11 lurking aboUt O'Shag thla WMkend) C.ll1322
4284. 
a normal person. okay? In the meanlime,8Nrchlng fOI' the value of a liberal edu­
......................................................... 4 SALE:3 AIR FORCE STU. TIX, 1 Friday nrght Pangborn Hall returns to the watch our f01 Menne//.
cation. Help Mickey find hla way home. 
Ann,
R1ders needed to the TWIN CITIES S.CAR. STU. BEST OFFER CALL 1305 Notre Dame map with COKE IS IT' 9:30 ·-'PupI mlu him. Cell Anne Marla x 4244. 
I really think I have thing for
10/19 through 10/28. call Bill at 3214. THE social space. BE there. but watch out a not SELL ME YOUR SOUTH CAROLINA for F.B.I. agents. 
-ring ahoea! Help Crlmeatopperal A grey wool Irish 
RIDERS NEEDED TO SAN DIEGO TICKETSIIMY GRANDPARENTS ARE cap was ··borrowed" from a redhead at an 
CA.LEAVING THUR 18TH. CALL STEVE COMING IN FROM THE GREAT CITY I NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS FORO.C. party last Friday. Gtrls. please return 
2341 OF PITTSBURGH--NEED TICKETS BREAK. CAN LEAVE RIGHT AFTER
the hat, pronto! No questions asked. CHERI, Smilell You're still loved. espe­
BAD!!Will PAY WELL. CALL MOLLY THE GAME AND WILL PAY THE USUAL 
Great sentimental value! 106 Dillon. cially by those of us at the old DH. See you
WANTED-2923. CALL MAUREEN AT 1333. 
1582. Happy 21st birthday Murf' tonight' (Would ya?) .............. MC
URBAN PLUNGE APPUCATIONS HELP!!!REALL Y NEED 2 SOUTH URBAN PLUNGE TO-"THE LADY' IN FARLEY-BEWARELOST: BROWN CLUTCH PURSE IN CAROLINA TICKETS--STUDENT OR URBAN PLUNGE OF THE NOVICE! 
LAFORTUNE ON FRIDAY OCT.6. 
IF YOU HAVE ONE, FILL IT OUT AND G.A.·· WILL PAY WELL' CALL CAROL URBAN PLUNGE PLEASE CONTACT TAISH AT 232-0467 TURN IT IN TODAY FOR AN EXPERI­2923 HAPPY BIRTHDAY MIKE ROBERTS!
IF FOUND. PLEASE• REWARD. POST-GAME SNACKSII by CAM­
ENCE YOU WILL NEVER FORGET Ill 48 HOURS YOU WILL NEVER FOR­What? You don't know Mike Roberts, BODIANS. Try the Rolls at the Center lor TRADE1Will TRADE 2 PARENT'S NO­GET!! 
girls? Well, then you have got to stop up to 
Lost: A black and Whtte bead ,ecktace. Social Concerns -OCT. 13, post-game
SOUTH CAROLINA TIX & $FOR 2 PENN room 
257 Gavanaugh to check out not
Sat nile. Sentrmental value. Gall Ruth until5pm.
RIDERS NEEDED TO N.JERSEY OR STATE GA'S CALL ROWELL1434 SEE YOUR CITY FROM THE INSIDE -only a water polo player, but Mr. Polo2673. Thanks. 
NYC CALL GIAN 232·0321 GET YOUR URBAN PLUNGE APPU­Himself· and he's 21 at that! He'll be ac· 
POST-GAME FOOD• CENTER FOR SO­LOST: MAN'S GOLD SEIKO WATCH FOR SALE: AIR FORCE STUD TIX (2n-CATIONS FROM THE CENTER FOR cepting birthday congratulations all day, CIAL CONCERNS . post-game until 5WANT TO RENT A CAR AND AIDE TO 7570) 
SOCIAL CONCERNS -NOW!!! and if you·re lucky maybe he'll buy you a
WITH GOLD AND SILVER BAND OVER pm.COME!
TEXAS ? CALL STEVE AT 4284. • legal drink. 
THE WEEKEND. IF FOUND OR HAVE NEED 3 PENN ST TIX GA'S or STUDS 
ANY INFO AS TO ITS WHEREABOUTS, GO NEE NEE -BEAT GRE! I KNOW
ED AIDE TO BUFFALO CAN LEAVE MARGARETE4434 
WHAT??!! NO PLANS FOR JAN. 7-11
CALL DAVE AT 3049. REWARD!! YOU CAN DO IT! GO FOR IT!
W.TH,F CALL MIKE 277·3828 
?? 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . PIZZAMAN 
..................................................... . TWO STUDENT AIR-FORCE TIX ARE
LOST-ROOM 407 KEY PLEASE CALL Help! Need a ride to and from scenic CO­AVAILABLE. SEATS ARE TOGETHER. 
UVEN UP YOUR LIFE-GO ON AN PHiLADELPH.iAPHILADELPHIAPHILAD'
4189 IF FOUND 
LUMBUS. OHIO lor tall break. Will share IF YOU ARE INTERESTED. CALL ...... . .......... ·········. 
philadelphiaphilldelphiaphiladelphiathe usual. Call Dan at 1426 SANDY AT 2900. SOMETHING UNEX­TWO DECADES OLD & STILL HASN'T
URBAN PLUNGE!!!
LOST: BLUE EG CONCEPTS BINDER. BUS SIGN UPS $62.00 roundtrip 
PECTEDLY CAME UP. IF WE CAN'T EN· FOUND ANYTHING BETTER THAN
URBAN PLUNGE!!! Call OWEN 288-~1NEED BADLY!! CALL 2763. 
NEED RIDE to and from St. Louis at JO\ THEM, SOMEONE SHOULD'! CHOCOLATE & SLEEP. HAPPY 20TH
URBAN PLUNGEII! 
break. can leave at one's convenrence. 
ANNE'!
LOST: A WHITE WINDBREAKER WITH 
Call lisa at SMC 5464 4 SALE: 2 GAs 2 STUD. S. CAROLINA GET APPLICATIONS FROM THE CEN­A REO AND BLUE COLLAR. POSSIBLY 
GAME ERICx2029 TER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS NEED-TUTOR English Tutor is needed
-
LOST OR TAKEN IN LAFORTUNE HAPPY 211181RTHDAY 
2 rides needed to DC area for break. Call 
NOW!!! for a Gambodian girl. Please call Gathy
BALLROOM. IF FOUND OR SEEN MIKE ROBERTS
Megan 284-5461 or Jane 284·5452 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR SALE 2995 288-6357
PLEASE CALL TERRY AT 1991. THANK October13 YOU111 See You At The BARS!!I
1need a ride to St. louis on 18th or 19th­FOR SALE 2 AIR FORCE GA'S JIM 3632 
................................. LAST CALL!!! G.-.g
willing to rent car if you do not have a car­
LOST LOST A GRAY WINDBREAKER LAST CALLI!!
can Murph at 1933. 4 AIR FORCE GAS FOR SALE (GREAT 
ON 1Q-9 HAS CAR KEYS IN THE POCK­LAST CALL!!!
LOCATION)··CALLLAURA ]2764 OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,
JEFF, Remember the walk around theETS. IF FOUND CALL TOM AT 287­
I need 4 Penn St. Tickets -Call Mimi at CARRY OUT Tll3 A.M., US 31 N.. ONE
URBAN PLUNGE APPUCATIONS ARE lakes in the rain some time ago? l think3037. REWARD 
284-5201 -THANKS! I have 4 S. Carolina tixs (GAsll) & 1 Stud. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
OUETODAY· you need one. SANDY p. s. CHEER UP!!! 
. . . . . . ... . . . . -. . . .... . . 
tix ·Will trade for 4 Penn State tixs (GAs)­Living OC isn't that bad! 
KISSES...A SOCIAL AlTERNATIVE 
Need ride to Pittsburgh on 10/19. GaH Gall Joe at 1933 -THANKS! KEVIN, CONGRATS FOR BEING AT
TURN YOURS IN AT THE CENTER FOR 
Karen 2676 THE TOP OF THE BIG MISTAKE CLUB
SOCIAL CONCERNS NOW!! GRAVITR~ : NOT BIG ENOUGH FORLoat: Studant I D. Last seen at dinner last IT'S OKAY THOUGH YOUR CUTE
Sunday tn South Dining Hall. If found, MY UTTLE SISTER WANTS TO 3-0. 
WHEN YOU BLUSH.
please call Bob Madden at 2490. CELEBRATE HER 18TH 8-DAY BY Gartland. DelVecchio and Sons present.. COMING TO THE PENN ST GAME. IF DANE GALDEN ESCORT SERVICE GRAVITRON: THE PATERNITY SUIT ( 
...... ·······"
FOR SALE 
LOST: A LETTER ADDRESSED TO YOU CAN HELP ME OUT WITH A ..For all your dining and GRINDING HOW IS THIS POSSIBLE?) . RAYMOND ZASADA, CONSUMER'S T1CifET SHE WILL BEAR YOU A SON! needs" Soon to be available-· THE DANE BEVERAGES OF CLARENCE. N.Y. IF new grrt's skates S50 or best offer,call CALL MARY AT 26452 TODAY FOR GALDEN BLOW UP DOLL! CALL 283-TWO NEED RIDE TO NY.C. FOR see CLASSIFIEDS, page 16 
FOUND CALL MIKE AT 2n-3828 
karen 2720616 THIS OPPORTUNITY Of' A UFmMEI 1DYC--THAT'SALL IT TAKES! BREAK CALL TONY 1101 

--~----­
The Observer 
Classifieds 
continuedfrom page 15 
ANGIE (REGINA 408) They edited the first ad. But here is your stupid personal any way. 
Cornell, Madison, even Arizona' GO J­SKERS! 
...... . . ·············· ........................... . Give me a J! Give me aD! Give me a Z! Jill Does Zebest! 
Who needs Airforce? Give me Barrens for 
basics, sleep for success, and W-let for a 
winning attitude! Go J! Beat GRE' 
MIKE(THE KILLER)MUSCARA IS CELEBRATING HIS 19TH BIRTHDAY THIS SAT. IF BADIN GIRLS CAN GET KISSES,MIKE SHOULD BE ABLE TO.CALL AT 2507! 
.............................................................. 
Dear Ray K. LOVE the hand towel!'! 
SEX Now that I have yoor attention Call 
Diane at 284-5097 and give her the bast birthday present ever. 
. ·········· ........ . ........................ . PAUL TALL Good Luck on the GREll Luv Ellen 
. ·······-······· ··············· 
Hey M.B.--A.A is just two weeks away' I 
Hear you can do alot of research there.­
spineless 
DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCE TONIGHT GRACE HALL PARTY ROOM 9:30-1:30 $1 ADMISSION DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCE 
BATTLESHIP SCORES 
MOOSE 2 
JoeMan7' 
QUESTION: THE SPIRIT OF THE ALCo­HOL POLICY IS: A) JACK DANIELS B) JIM BEAM C) KING CELLAR 
JIM BURNS YOU OWE US FOR SERVICES RENDERED. SandS 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TONY! -K & S (318 & 
319)! 
.............................................. 
KING HARBOR'S PRINCESSES' I'm so 
glad we're all together again' (minus 
AMO) AGNUBAWOC to a shmeeboppin 
weekend'Loveyou.KT 
............ 
They first appeared at MICHIGAN STATE .... NOTRE DAME WON. Now "when the goln' geta tough, -·re up eg~~lnat, and the bfMka are beatln' the boya" they return to support the team... AND the COACH. Yes. we still love him butwedon'twantanybodytoknowit. THE UNKNOWN FAUST FANS RETURN!! We've lost FACE. but not FAITH. Watch tor us Saturday' 
................................................... ROB NEUS, Happy Birthday' Now that you re 21, will the VISION notice you? As­sorted friends 
neus is a bum and owes us all money as­sorted friends 
WARNING to all NO men! The weekend is here so you had better watch out. Moira is out for the attack. 
........................... .. ...... ......................... . GOING TO CHICAGO FOR BREAK. THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD IS RUN­NING BUSSES FROM N.D. to OHARE AIRPORT on Friday,Oct.19th and Satur­day, Oct.20th. Leaves 3P.M. Friday and 4P. M. Satultay. Our price is only ten dol­larsandyou can sign up atTHE RECORD STORE in LaFortune. Also, a bus will be at OHARE on Sunday,Oct.28th at 7P.M. to bring students back to N.D. ONLY 10 DOLLARS. SAVE MONEY!SAVE MONEY! 
Friday, October 12, 1984 -page 16 

Sports Briefs 
The ND basketball team wm be holding walk-on 
• tryouts Monday, October 15 from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Auxiliary Gym at the ACC. For more information, contact Jim Baron at the basketball office.-The Observer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team wm be 
meeting Sunday at 1 p.m. on Cartier Field for team pictures and a scrimmage.-The Observer 
The ND women's soccer team defeated 
Spring Arbor College Wednesday, 7-0, in Spring Arbor, Mich. Kate Titterton scored four of the Irish goals, Teresa Sheppard scored twice and Claire Welsh had one goal. Notre Dame will put its 6-f -1 record on the line today against Nazareth College at 5:30p.m. be­hind Stepan Center. On Sunday, the Irish will play at Marquette.-The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will be meeting on Sunday at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All members going on the Boston trip should bring their checkbooks. For more information, call John Crilly at 283-3170.-The Observer 
NCAA Volunteers for Youth is inviting an ath­
letes interested in forming a one-on-one friendship with an area youth to join the program. Interested athletes should call Patti Gal­lagher at 283-2999, Tammy Schmidt at 283-4001 or Dave Clark at 283-1665 by tomorrow.-The Observer 
Morrisey Hall won Wednesday's NVA cross-country meet with 34 points. The other five teams were: Stanford ( 66 points), Howard (83), Grace (86), Flanner ( 95) and Keenan ( 1 12). Jeff Westhoren of Morrisey finished first, Flanner's Bobby Bligh was second and Howard's Shawn O'Brien rook third place.-The Observer 
A horseback-riding trip to Happy Trails Riding Stables is being sponsored by NVA on Sunday, November 4. Trips will leave at 10 a.m., 11 :~0 a.m., noon and 1:30 p.m. If you have put your name on the waiting list or are interested in signing up, bring $S to the NVA office to cover transportation and rides. -The Observer 
NEW JERSEY CLUB 
October Break Bus 
Sign-ups: Monday October 15 6-Spm 2nd floor LaFortune 

$80 Round Trip Only! 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 20 
b~ating by Miami dropped Notre 
Dame's home record over the past 
three-plus years to 10-8. This means 
the Irish have won 56 percent of 
their games at home. During this 
same period, they have won 53 per­
cent of their road games. 
Neither of these records are very imprefsive, but it is most disturbing to think that Notre Dame plays about the same at home as on the road. This is so unlike Notre Dame teams of the past. Between the years of 1963 and 1981, the Irish had a 76­13-1 (84 percent) record in the Stadium. Beginning in 1981, the trend seems to have changed. Last year, the Irish had their first sub-. 500 home season in 20 years. And they could repeat the feat this year ifthey don't get their act together. 
Notre Dame fans have always felt that their performance in the stands played an important part in the team's performance on the field. They know they ~an be tough hosts and are proud of it. However, after more than three years of below­average performances at home, they are starting to feel that their efforts are going unrewarded. How else can you explain the booing at the end of the Miami game? One official who has been associated closely with the football team for many years said it was the first time he has ever heard the team booed after a game, includ­ing big losses to Southern Cal. 
Why does the team play so poorly at home? Ifthe home-field advantage is more of an emotional advantage than anything else, it would appear that recent Notre Dame teams are incapable ofgetting pumped up for a game. Obviously, playing in front of the home folks doesn't seem to pro­vide enough incentive for the team to beat the Air Forces, Arizonas, and Michigan States -all inferior teams as far as talent goes. When you are playing at home, that should rarely happen. 
Why can't the team get pumped up? Ifsomeone knows the answer to that, maybe he or she should be the head coach. 

I j 
BANKING••• 

""'March 
'Jt' .of

D1mes 
SAVES BABIES 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
Free Tollgate Parties -Every sat. 11 -5 FREE Munchies 
Watch the game on our satellite lllg Screen T.v . 
MR. D's 
1516 N.lronwood South Bend 

233-7747 Ron Delaere 

United way 

Campus Entertainment presents: 
ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
The Budweiser Comedy 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in 
Shop Tour Haggar College c·enter, offers free checking to Saint Mary's
Come enjoy 3 of America's 
and Notre Dame students and faculty.
hottest young comedians: 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 27 banking 
Jeff Altman 
locations to serve you! 
Elayne Boosler Richard Lewis 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday
Appearing at O'Laughlin Aud, SMC October 17 8:00p.m. 
Mon. thru Thurs.-11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m.
7:45 Pre-show comedy acts featuring: 
Friday -11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. ~ source
Bernie Pelligrino (1st place winner ofAmateur Night) Ruth Kaiser, Kevin ·Flynn, Ane Green 
Join Michiana's 1st Team ~Bank
Tickets on sale at SAB Record Store-LaFortune, for unsurpa~sed banking service! Member F.D.I.C.
O'Laughlin Box Office and Century Center $4 General Admission 


The Observer Friday, October 12. 1984 -page 17 
Cocktail and Polynesian Drinks! Mon.-Thura: 11:30am-10pm 8ar open 7 days • week
FJJ.·Sat: 11 :30om·11pm 
130 Dixie H~way South
Sun • ~Holid• ~ 
• South Bend, Indian~~
11 :30am·1Opm on u.s. 11 North • Next to,..,..... 1n11 
Happy Hour: 5pm-7pm 



MONDAY, OCTOBER 29 7:30 NOTRE DAME A. C. C. 
All SEATS RESERVED $135' 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE A.C.C. BOX OFFICE, SEARS (UNIVERSITY PARK MALL, ELKHART, MICHIGAN CITY), ROBERTSON'S (SO. BEND, TOWN AND COUNTRY AND CONCORD MALL), ELKHART TRUTH, J.R.'S MUSIC SHOP (LA PORTE ST. JOSEPH BANI5 (MAIN OFFICE), 
~ WORLD RECORD (GOSHEN), MUSIC 0~ MAGIC (BENTON HARBOR), AND ~ KARMA RECORDS (FT. WAYNE) 
I i: 
i 
Tournament berth at stake 
Soccer team faces must-win games 
ByPHILWOLF 
Assistant !-lports Editor 
The ultimate goal for the Notre 
Dame soccer team this season has 
been. from the start, to earn a berth 
in the NCAA postsea..<;on tourna­
ment. This weekend, the Irish can 
take a giant step toward achieving 
that goal. 
The Irish will play two games this weekend, both of which are must­win games, according to Head Coach Dennis Grace. 
Tonight, Notre Dame plays host to Central Michigan University under the lights of Cartier Field beginning at 8 p.m. Sunday, the Irish will travel to Milwaukee to take on the Mar­quette Warriors at 2 p.m. 
The Chippewas should not be too much ofa challenge for Notre Dame tonight. The Irish have never played a team from Central Michigan, but this year's CMU team has a record of only 3-6. 
Grace said he is very concerned, however, with his team's attitude. He said the team must come to the game ready to play well regardless of who the opponent is. This has been a problem for the Irish in some of the games earlier this season. 
"We will have to play as well as we can against tbose two ( CMU and 



~ie~~~ 

estaurant 
Best inAged Stea 
120 N. Main Street Downtown. Mishawaka 
255-7737 
for reservations Lunch ll:OOa.m. to 2:30p.m. Dinner 5:00p.m. Closed Sundays & 


Chris' Ice Crean1 
MADE THE OLD FASHIONED WAY 
Have any of16 items mixed right into yourfavorite flavors! 
Sot OfF anypurchase 
with ND/SMC 10 one per customer 
1723 So. Bend Ave. -next to Turtle Creek A t. 
LIVE!! 
The BAND, The SOUND FRIDAY, OCT. ll 10-2am 
ICE TEA SPECIAL $1.35 
tv\U'? I C... ... 
~[OOll~ §~ 
~ Oo <So c:J@\j~ 


Marquette)," Grace said. "There's no doubt about it." 
The Warriors, who have not been ranked all season, entered the Mideast region poll this week at the No. 4 position. The Irish currently are ranked ninth in the poll. 
In the past week, Marquette beat last week's No. 4 team, Cleveland State, 2-1, and this week's No. 2 team, Evansville, 1-0. The Warriers also downed Wisconsin-Green Bay, 
2-1. 
The Irish fell from eighth to ninth place in this week's rankings after a 5-2 ~win over a weak St. Francis squad and a 3-1loss at the hands ofnational powerhouse St. Louis. 
Now, it is nearly vital to Notre Dame's tournament hopes that the Irish win in Milwaukee this weekend. Only the top two or three teams in each region of the country are eligible for the national tourna­ment, so the Irish must move ahead in the polls with wins over the top teams. 
The Irish already have lost this season to top-ranked Indiana, but they still have a chance at No. 3 Ak­ron Wednesday on Alumni Field at 4 p.m. 
The task at the moment, though, is to gain two victories this weekend. Grace said he is looking forward to the clash with the Warriors, because it gives Notre Dame the chance it needs to prove itself against a highly ranked team. 
"They (the Warriors) deserve to have been up there (in the rank.ings) all along," the Irish coach said. "I don't know why they weren't, but they're there now. It's great; I love it. Now our destiny is in our hands. 
"That's exactly my approach to the boys," Grace continued. "Here, how about some pressure? You beat Marquette, you beat Akron at home, you will get in the national tourna­ment for the first time ever at the University of Notre Dame." 
This is Marquette's homecoming weekend, and the biggest soccer crowd in the school's history is ex­pected for the game, so Notre Dame will have to overcome a team with a definite home-field advantage. The Warriors, of course, also are hungry for a victory over a team in their region, and they should be well­rested from their hectic schedule last week since they have not played yet this week. 
The destiny of the Irish soccer players, as Grace noted, now is in their own hands. If they can come out to play with a winning attitude, this weekend could set the wheels in motion for Notre Dame to recieve its first-ever NCAA tournament bi<;J. 
ISAA Mideast Socctt 
The top ten colleg<: soccer teams in the lntc'rcol­lcglat<: Soccer Association ofAm<:rica Mideast R<:glon. with this season's records through I:.JSt Sunday and tOlal points~ PoinL• based on 10·9·8·., etc. Nouc Dame op· 
ponents are ttaltcized~  
I. Indiana  11-0-1  70  
2~  Evansville  10-1·0  62  
3. Akron  6-2 .l  S6  
4~  Marquette  8-2·2  48  
s~  Cleveland State  6-3·1  42  
6~  Bowling Green  5·5·0  .n  
7~  Western Michigan  '7-0-1  2~  
8. Wisconsin-Milwaukee  S~4-l  14  
9. Notn Dante  7-2-2  n  
10~ Mtcbtgan State  S~2·1  II  


Wishbone 
continuedfrom page 20 
yards between them. If they are too 
close together, the linebacker will 
be able to cover both players at the 
same time. When they are too far 
apart, the transaction from quarter­
back to halfback will be made much 
more difficult. 
If the play is not run as quickly as 
possible the defense will be given 
time to react, and the main objective 
of the play will not be achieved. 
Obviously, Air Force has been running its offense the way it was de­signed by the coaching staff. The Fal­cons have the second leading rushing attack in the country with a 333 yards-per-game average. The two top rushers on the team, ful­lback Pat Evans and halfback Jody Simmons, have each gained more than seven yards a carry. 
For the last two years, the Irish have had their problems stopping this attack, and with the many injur­ies to this year's unit the task of pre­venting the Falcons from running well is made that much more diffi­cult. The defense must concentrate on breaking up the timing of the backfield motion which will cause Air Force to fumble and mishandle the ball. The Irish should also beware ofthe long pass because this type of offense has the tendency to lull the defense to sleep therefore leaving receivers downfield open. 
The Irish need to put some points on the scoreboard early and force the Falcons to turn the ball over. If this can be accomplished, the outcome of the game will be much different from that of the last two meetings between these two teams. However, if the Irish allow the Fal­cons to run freely. it could be an­other long afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday. 

Cross-country season a success 
\ ' 
u Courtney, Tyler lead the Irish
') ) 
q 
By NICK SCHRANTZ for his track ability, but still ran being selected captains and how J 
Sports Writer cross-country. He made the team his they go about their job. "We're quiet freshman year, but failed to run var­captains, but we generate respect 
The Notre Dame cross-country sity. During his sophomore year he based on our performance in the team has the weekend off after an ran as the seventh or eighth runner past. We're serious runners, but we impressive victory in last weekend's on the team and earned a do not yell at the runners. Instead
'\ prestigious Notre Dame Invitational. monogram. Tyler had problems we try to give constructive 
;. The Irish have also won the National with injuries his junior year and was criticism," he explains. Catholic Meet and a season-opening out for I0 weeks. As a result of the Tyler and Courtney are each five team meet. Two reasons for the injury Tyler gained an extra year of confident about this year's team. fine success of the team are seniors eligibility. "We can be in the top lO in the Jim Tyler and Bill Courtney. Despite the injury, Tyler was still country by the end of this year," 

Tyler and Courtney, the two co­elected co-captain ofboth the cross­Tyler predicts. "We are ranked 14th captains of the cross-country team, country and track teams. He has now and I feel we are bound for the each began this season displaying shown that he deserves the team's NCAA's." many of the same qualities. Accor­respect by having a good year so far. "Before the year I was optimistic, ding to Head Coach Joe Piane, the He had a poor 29th-place finish in but we had an unknown factor," two have similar styles as captains. the opening meet, but then im­Courtney says. "This group has 
"Each of them is a darn good proved to 18th in the National Cath­come together as a real unit. Coach leader," says Piane. "They are a little olic Meet. He had a fine time of Piane deserves much of the credit. bit quieter type of captain, but they 24:56.2. Tyler followed this with a He understands us more and thus lead by example. They are fine great race at the Notre Dame Invita­can help us out and make us better workers, good runners, and both are tional. He finished 23rd overall, but performers." doing a great job." fifth for the Irish, in a time of24:38.3. Both Tyler and Courtney have im­
However, Tyler and Courtney en­Courtney was honored to be proved in their four years here, and tered Notre Dame with highly differ­named captain, and prepared ex­now are two highly contributing ent backgroundo;. tensively for his new role. "Being members of the team. The two also 
Courtney graduated from named captain was pretty satisfying help the team by effective leader­Dearborn High School in Dearborn, for me. It came from my peers so it ship as captains. Their running abil­Michigan, as the fourth-ranked showed they had confidence in me," ity and leadership will be needed the cross-country runner and the fifth. he feels. "I took it to heart because rest of the year if the Irish wish to ranked miler in the state. He was a the team expected r.tore from me. In remain unbeaten. They will be much respected runner at the local the summer I did more mileage so tested next week at the Indiana In­and state level, but he lacked na­I'd be ready by school." tercollegiate Meet, whose field in­tional recognition. As a result, he did Tyler reflects their reason for cludes 12th ranked Purdue. not receive a scholarship upon en­tering Notre Dame. 
Tyler arrived at Notre Dame as a 
....__........ hrfedamd .,_....
Need LSU Tix
nationally known high school run­
oppGI....ey. 190110, NEGO,IwdwMniPA 
nner. He was the nation's fifth­
............. controla, ..... recOnlllbqry,
CaII collect eves.
ranked miler as a senior at 
MCI ,.-.condltioa 71 Fonl-. Sad for Norwood-Norfolk High School in 
wqMip 1wtlilt at c/o22 w... Hltlh Sar.t,
504·291·0642 
,IN46151.
Norwood, New York. Tyler received many scholarship offers, including one from national powerhouse Vil­lanova, but he refused them and decided to enroll at Notre Dame. 
Courtney began his fine career 'i.'" quietly. He fulfilled his goal and 
~ .) ) 
l{ made the team, but he was not var­
: Senior Night I
J .: 
sity. Courtney improved his sopho­more year and ran as the seventh e at e man on the varsity team. He suffered from heat exhaustion at the Notre Dame Invitational, which set him 

•• H.l.'sl •• 
back the rest of the year. 
: (in Niles) I
Courtney bounced back his junior year to earn his second monogram and also the team's Most Improved 
I Friday, October 12 I
Runnner award. This was because of his sixth-place finish in the Indiana Big State Meet, where he set his per­
I 9:30p.m. -??? I 
sonal best time of 24: lO for 8,000 meters, and a seventh-place finish in the Northwestern dual meet. 
Courtney's senior year is proving 
• 
to be his best. He began the year with a fifth-place finish in the five­team meet, with a time of 24:43.9. He improved with a seventh-place finish overall, but first for the Irish, at the National Catholic Meet in a time of 24:17.4. He finished a below-par 37th place at the Notre Dame Invita­tional, but is still one of the leading runners for the Irish. 
Tyler came to Notre Dame known 
Tennis 
continued/rom page 20 
Lee provide strength and experi­ence. Senior Cathy Schnell and freshman Michelle Dasso add a strong link to a powerful group. 
In the conference tournament, the key challenge for the Irish will come from a strong Butler squad which finished second a year ago in the same matchup. Others in the two-day championship event will in­
clude Dayton, Evansville, Xavier, 
Detroit, and Loyola. 
So far this season, Notre Dame has played only one of its conference foes -DePaul. 
The tournament, scheduled for today and tomorrow, begins at 8 
a.m. on the University of Evansville campus. Look for the Irish to win the tournament fairly easily as they drive for their first ever Division II national championship in their last year before moving to Division I. 

The Observer Friday, October 12, 1984 -page 18 

San Diego pitcher Tim Lollar will startfor the Padres tonight in Game Three of the World Series. The Series stands at one victory apieceafter thePadres'5-3 comeback win in San Diego Wednesday night. 
NOTICE: IF YOU ARE REGISTERED TO VOTE IN INDIANA AND NEED TO VOTE BY ABSENTEE BALLOT FOR PRESIDENT RONALD REAGAN, PLEASE FILL OUT AND MAIL THE COUPON BELOW TO RECEIVE AN ABSENTEE BALLOT APPLICATION. 
Yes, I am a registered voter and I want an absentee ballot application: 
NAM~------------------------------­HOME ADDRESS____~~----­
Clip this coupon and mail it TODAY* to: 
Reagan-Bush '84 14 N. Delaware Indianapolis, IN 46204 
*NOTE: This application must be mailed by October 18th. 
PUd lor uwl author\zod by the ~Buoh '114 Campo;,n Committee, Paul Laxalt, Chairman, Angela II. 811Chanan J..uon, -r.-urer. 



Exceptions
to the Rule 
Graduates in Business & Related Fields 
Equitec Properties Company is one of the nation's fastest growing real estate syndicators. We didn't achieve this success by hiring candidates with aver­age abilities and limited potential. Instead, we look for people who are exceptions to the rule-and in this case, exceptional business graduates interested in stepping into our winners circle of high achievers. 
We're looking for graduates in business, accounting, finance and economics who are high-spirited, ambitious, team-oriented and success-minded. If you're looking for a career with professional satisfaction and rapid advance­ment potential, Equitec has opportunities for you in Property Management and Real Estate Analysis. 
EQUITEC CAREER OPEN HOUSE Morris Inn Alumni Room 
Thursda~~ober18,1984 
7:00-9:00PM Refreshments will be served. 
Learn more about the future we can offer you. Those individuals who have already signed up for an interview will have the advantage of meeting us early at the Open House. If you have yet to sign up, come to the Open House and schedule an interview time. 
If you're unable to attend, send your resume and introductory letter, to: Equitec Properties Company, 1018-ND, 200 West Monroe, Suite 1504, Chicago, IL 60606. 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 

Equitec 
Step 11lto the Wi111Zers Circle. 



Friday, October 12, 1984 -page 19 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 



Campus 
•12:
1 5 · 1 p.m. -Friday Fonun at CSC For Fac­ulty and StaJJ, "Prophets and Kings: Why Churchmen Make Statesmen Miserable," Rev. James Burtchaell, NO, Room 124 Center for Social Concerns, Brown Bag and Bread, $1. 

•
3 p.m. · Urban Plunge Application Deadline, Centerfor Social Concerns or Office ofJustice Edu­cation ( SMC ). 

•
3:15 p.m. -Panel and Discussion, Writing Let­ters of Reference, Stapleton Lounge, Sponsored by Counseling and Career Development.& Academic Affairs. 

•3:25 
p.m.-Ph}.sics Condensed Matter Semi· nar, "Core Excitons In Semiconductors & Insula­tors," Dr. F.C. Brown, Univ. of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

• 
3:30 p.m. -Philosophy Colloquium, "The The­ory of Epistemic Rationality," Prof. Richard Foley, ND, Commentator: Prof. Alvin Plantinga, ND, Li­brary Lounge. 

•3:30 
p.m.-Baseball, NO vs. Bethel College, Jake Kline Field. 

•4 
p.m. -Field Hockey, NO vs. Western Illinois, Alumni Field. 

•4 
p.m.· Architecture Lecture, "A Methodology for Structural System Selection," Prof. David Wick· ersheimer, University of Illinois, 202 Architecture Building. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Film, "French Lieutenant's Woman," Breen Phillips Basement, Sponsored by Interna­tional Student Organization, Free. 

•7 
p.m.-Pep Rally, Stepan Center. 

•7 
& 9 p.m.-St. Mary's Peacemakers FUm, "Dark Circles," Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.-FUm, "Kramer vs. Kramer," Engi­neering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activi­ties Board, S1. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night FUm Series, "Entre Nous," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m.-Soccer, NO vs. Central Michigan, Cartier Field. 

•8 
p.m. -ND%SMC Play, "The Hothouse," By Harold Pinter, Saint Mary's Little Theatre, Sponsored by ND/SMC Theatre, $2. 50. 


TV Tonight 
7:15p.m.  16  World Series (Game 3)  
7:30p.m.  28  Webster  
8:00p.m.  22  Dallas  
28  Hawaiian Heat  
34  Washington Week in Review  
8:30p.m.  34  Wall Stre~t Week  
9:00p.m.  22  Falcon Crest  
28  Matt Houston  
34  To The lighthouse  

The Daily Cross-word 
ACROSS 39 Chemical 70 Belted 22 Bus customer 1 Farm unit ending 71 Ruby and 26 Mix colors 5 Mantelpiece 40 Certain wave Sandra 27 Go astray 
cousins 42 Bundle of hides 28 Seed coats 10 Not in harmony 43 Zodiac sign DOWN 29 Restorative 14 What person 45 Printer's term 1 Woodworking 30 Overtime score 15 Quality 46 sos tools 31 Do a yard chore 16 Sp. painter 47 Crumple 2 Gab 32 Stationary 17 Cell occupant 49 Too 3 "Schoolboy" of 33 Mawkish 19 Night birds 51 Greenland pitching fame 20 Cubic meter settlement 4 Involve in 
36 Engage gears 21 General 52 Depth finder trouble 37 Floor cover 
meaning 54 In transit 5 Sault -Marie 40 Commonplace23 No-play 41 Type of jacket6 Incensedadvance 
44 In a­
56 Optical light 7 Kareem, for one
24 Western 
46 -there
58 Sierra-8 Mortgage26 Competitor (passim)
62 Singer Paul 9 Tried very hard 
28 Raiment 64 Sturdy boat 10 Fuss31 Compensation 
66 Witnessed 11 Hard candy 
of a kind 67 Fixed relation 12 Partner 48 Dinette set 34 Make turbid 68 1492 ship 13 Puff up units35 Diva Eames 69 Ghostly 18 Bring up 50 Glen's cousin 38 Clio's kin 
52 Take care of 59 Migrant worker 53 Path of a kind 60 Hawaiian 54 Amphora goose 55 Arrow ooison 61 Notable times 
63 Some 57 Cheat 65 Fish eggs 
Yesterday's Solution 

©1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 19/12/84 


FRIDAY 
DUSTIN 
Tonight and
6 8 Happy Hour 
HOFFMAN 
Tomorrow Night 
10-2I.C. HOYT 
7:00, 9:00, 11:00
Live Music 95e Vodka Cranberry 

Kramer 
Engineering Aud. 
$135 Long Island Tea 

Krvs. 
$1.00


amer 
SAT -open at 9a.m. 
._________________________

___. 



-
--~ --------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------~ 
! 1 
S~orts 
junior Mary Struckboff (left) and the Irish will play their last home, game of the field hockey season today against Western Illinois, at 4 p.m. on 



Alumni Field. Notre Dame will have a chance to improve its recordof3·3-1 before leaving on a road 
trip that includes three tournaments. 
Friday, October 12, 1984-page 20 
ND women's tennis tries for second title 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team will try to capture its second straight conference title as it travels to Evansville, Indiana, this weekend for the second annual North Star Conference Tournament. The tournament concludes the fall por­tion ofthe women's tennis schedule. 
The Irish have been fairly success­ful thus far, compiling a 5-0 record in dual matches against both Division I and Division II schools. Most memorable for them was a 5-4 win at the University of Illinois in Cham­paign. 
In tournament action, the Irish have met less success primarily be­cause of the tough competition in­cluded in early season tourneys. At Northwestern, the Irish were able to advance a singles player to the fourth round of a 64-person event and a doubles player to a semi-final round. But the eight-scholarshipped away from the hosts with five wins out of six matches in head-to-head action. Notre Dame took second for the third straight year. 
In the Evansville tourney, the Irish appear to be the odds-on favorite to win the championship with little trouble. They will rely on a strong team effort to accomplish the feat. Last year the Irish captured the con­ference title by winnins,in all six singles and all three dout1fes events. 
In their favor, the Irish have a healthy Susie Panther, who is unde­feated in singles action on the year, playing in the No. 1 singles spot. Junior Mary Colligan, who has filled in at the top spot from time to time, gives them a solid one-two punch going at the opposition from the second spot. Sophomore JoAnne Biafore, freshman MichelJe Dasso, junior lzzy O'Brien, and senior co­captain Lisa I.aFratta provide a solid supporting cast. 
In doubles, Notre Dame has also developed a strong attack. After 
Play requires quickness, alertness 
Wishbone could provide problems 
ByJERRY MELIA passing is involved, it is a high-risk mately five yards behind the guards 
Sports Writer offense susceptible to many turn­on the offensive line. 
overs and fumbles. Use of the When the ball is snapped, the 
The Notre Dame football team is wishbone makes it difficult for a quarterback appears to hand it off to 
going to have to make some adjust­team to come back from a large defi­the fullback, but in most cases this is ments, especially defensively, inpre­cit because movement up the field is only a fake to draw the linebackers paring for Air Force this Saturday. so time-consuming. to the line of scrimmage. When the Last week the Irish faced Miami, There are a few keys to a success­ball is not given to the fullback, he known primarily for its passing game ful wishbone option. The quarter­will be used as a blocker and try to on the arm of Bernie Kosar. The back must not only be a great open up a hole over the guard. If no game against the Falcons this athlete, but also one who is capable transaction is made, the quarterback .weekend presents a much different to read a defense to know when to will continue to move toward the 
problem for the Irish. run and when to pitch the ball to the sidelines. 
Air Force has a particularly potent setback. Quick, alert, and The lead halfback will also play 
running game. One would think this surehanded running backs are es­the role of a blocker, attempting to 
would not cause any added prob­sential for this play to run correctly. leave a hole over the tackle where 
lems since Notre Dame faces many Strong offensive linemen who are the quarterback can make even 
teams who rely on their ground capable of getting a strong surge off more progress up the field. The 
game to score. However, the Falcons the ball is also required. quarterback will then try to make 
employ a much different style than The formation of the play is not the outside linebacker commit him­
many other teams · an offensive that complicated. If any part of the self until the ball is either kept or 
formation called the wishbone op­play is not just right the results can pitched to the halfbac.k, depending 
tion attack. be disastrous for the offense. on the movement of the linebacker. 
The wishbone, an offense geared There are three running backs: a For the play to run smoothly the 
toward moving the ball on the fullback, one strong and capable of quarterback and the haUback must 
ground and ball control, is not blocking, lined up approximately maintain a relationship of about five 
utilized by very many teams. This is three yards behind the quarterback, 
see WISHBONE, page 17
mainly because, even though no and two halfbacks lined up approxi-Wildcats were able to overcome lacking in aggressiveness through Notre Dame in both events with su­most of the early season, the Irish perior performances. have come on to impress opposing 
In the Irish Invitational last duos at Northwestern and at the weekend, the Irish played well, win­Irish Invitational where they won 11 ning 31 of 36 matches. However, of 12 challenges. In the leadoff spot, Western Michigan, with more schol­Panther and senior co-captain I..aura arships and players to maneuver, 
see TENNIS, page 18
was able to take the championship 
ND baseball team wins against Glen Oaks, 6-4 
By KEVIN HERBERT  and sixth innings, yielding only one  
Sports Writer  run.  
However, the Irish were unable to  
On  the  strength  of late-inning  score  until  the  ninth when, with  
shutout pitching and a timely ninth  Notre  Dame  trailing,  4-2,  Mike  
inning  rally,  the  Notre  Dame  Trudeau delivered a three-run triple  
baseball team was able to overcome  to put Notre  Dame up  by  a  run.  
a  two-run deficit and defeat Glen  Meanwhile,  the pitching staff was  
Oaks College, 6-4, in baseball action  impressive  in  the  late  innings  as  
Wednesday  afternoon.  The  game  sophomoreJohn Gleeson and junior,  
was a scimmage scheduled for 10 in­ Bob Lee did not allow a baserunner  
nings.  through the last four innings of the  
ballgame.  
The Irish trailed early in the game,  In the tenth the Irish added a final  
giving up three runs in the fiPn thn:c..  • •111  to dckat Glen ()aks hy the final  
innings. But the Glen ( laks It-ad was  ~·  .•rt.· of 6-4.  
cut  in  the  third  inning  on  john  fresh  ,ff tht:'ir \'ictor} Wednt:sda)  
Loughran's  two·run  single  Kevin  tfternoon  tht· Le<~rn  will hattk Bet·  
Harmon  pitched  the  fourth,  tifth  tl• 1 Col'!··.:·  !i.•s d.ltt:rnoon.  

It's time for the Irish to stop making excuses 
Five games into the 1984 season, the Notre Dame foot­ball team has its back against the wall. 
Last Saturday's loss to Miami, like the previous year's loss to the Hurricanes, was more damaging than just put· ting a game in the loss column. Once again, the Irish have failed to show the fans that they deserve their confidence. In fact, there is a growing nu~ber of people who are hoping the team will lose the rest ofits games. It's sad that some people feel so betrayed by the team, but it is almost understandable. 
This growing negative feeling is the real reason the team's back is against the wall. The team is going to have to do something on the field to win back some of the confidence. Winning the remaining games, or at least all but one, would go a long way toward this goal, but it isn't necessary. 
What the team needs to do is play games with such determination that, win or lose, the students don't feel the team deserves to be booed. Whether it's true or not, it appears from the stands that the team is not playing up to its capabilities. In other words, it doesn't look like every­one is giving 1 00 percent. Dropped passes, questionable play-calling, blown pass patterns, and stupid penalties are some things that indicate not all the players and coaches are totally into the game. 
What the team needs to do is stop giving excuses for everything. I don't know how many times over the past few years I've heard about how the bad breaks went against the team, or how injuries were responsible for the loss. When is somebody going to admit that the other team was better-prepared, wanted to win the game more, 

Mike Sullivan 
Sports Editor 
or was simply better than the Irish? 
First of all, you make your own breaks. A good team will get good breaks many times more than a bad team will. The injury excuse, while at times is somewhat reasonable, is also flimsy. Everybody has injuries. It's part of the game. Miami, for instance, lost its best defensive back for the entire second half and still dominated the Irish. Auburn lost Heisman-favorite Bo jackson for the season, but is 3-0 without him. 
Notre Dame will never have a great team until the players realize there is really no excuse for constantly losing ifit has the better team. Unfortunately, they always have a scapegoat if things go wrong. They would never admit it, but, if things go wrong, there is only one person who is going to take the heat -Gerry Faust. While Faust, as head coach, deserves the largest share of the blame, he doesn't deserve it all. Right now, though, the players know he will have to answer to the critics if they play poorly. It's an easy excuse. 
Excuses or not, though, there is no reason to give up on the season. The situation is simple. The players are going to have to earn back the confidence of their fans by proving, on the field, that they deserve it. When they do 
this, the Notre Dame football program will begin regain­ing some of the stature it has lost recently. • 
In the "Wizard of Oz," Dorothy may have felt that "there's no place like home," but, for the Irish, it's begin­ning to seem that tht>re is no such thing as home. 
Football people have always emphasized the impor· tance of the "home-field advantage." Players and coaches alike have always admitted that it is a great boost to have the whole stadium cheering for them and against the op­position. The support of the fans gives them that extra burst ofenergy that may be just enough to let them beat a ~ore talented team. If tr.e home team is more talented, the fan support can help the team avoid getting upset by an inferior opponent. In short, with the home-field advan· tage, a decent team should be tough to beat, and a talented team should be nearly unbeatable. 
Notre Dame Stadium has always had the reputation of being one of those places where it's extremely hard to win as the visiting team. The student body is always very loud and the place is almost consistently full of crazy Notre Dame alumni and subway alumni. Very rarely would Notre Dame ever lose at home. 
Over the past few years, however, the Irish seem to have lost the home-field advantage. The fans are still very loud and plentiful (Notre Dame Stadium has been sold out 104 of the last 105 home games), but the support doesn't seem to help the Irish on the field. I..ast Saturday's 
see IRISH, page 16 






