Spring break page6 

VOL XVIII, NO.ll4 FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1984 
the inlkpt:mknt !'>tudcnt tW\\ ..,p.tplT wn mg tlOtfl d.tmc and ~aint ma~ ·~ 
Hart fogged in at South Bend 
Special to The Observer 
Democratic Presidential conten­der Gary llart made an unexpected stop in South Bend last night when his plane was fogged in en route to Chicago. 
Speaking at Michiana Regional Airport during his one-hour delay, llart said he was unsure whether Senator John Glenn's decision to drop out of the race would help his own campaign, but he noted "many of(Glenn's) supporters have already come across to us." 
"It's impossible to know what the 
~:xact effect will be," Hart said. 
The stopover in South Bend ham­pered Hart's plans to attend a fundraiser with Robert Redford at the Conrad-Hilton in Chicago. Local news reporters hurried to the air­port to interview Hart as the nation­al campaign reporters who travel with Hart watched from a distance. 
Hart said his campaign has always stressed "issues and substance," and he said that ifelected, he would deal practically with problems surround­ing defense, nuclear arms, the en­vironment and the economy. 
"Those issues didn't come across a year ago," Hart said. 
Earlier in the evening, Hart blun­
dered with an accusation ofwhat he 
called dirty campaigning on the part 
of Walter Mondale. 
Hart charged Mondale with run­
ning television spots that raised 
questions about Hart's name, age 
and even his signature. 
"There is no blemish on my 
character that would prohibit me 
from governing this country in this 
decade," Hart said in Springfield, Ill., 
responding to the ads, which later 
turned out to be nonexistent. 
"Mistakes of this kind happen," he 
said later in Galesburg, Ill., blaming 
the error on wrong information from his campaign headquarters in Washington. 
Mondale, campaigning for votes in Michigan's Saturday's caucuses, was quick to jump on his rival's blun­der. 
"I think there's a lot of evidence my opponent is getting unnerved," Mondale said in Detroit. "Have you ever heard me mention anybody's age or anybody's name? I'm not going to get into that." 
The Republican Party. however, is planning to start a 20-state, S I. 2 mil­lion television ad campaign that at­tacks Hart's claim to "new ideas" without ever mentioning him by name. 
Hart and the third remaining can­didate, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, had a chance meeting yesterday at the Little Rock, Ark., airport, talking privately for about 10 minutes. The black candidate said in Arkansas ap­pearances that he expects to do "very well indeed" in tomorrow's caucuses there. 
For McGovern, yesterday was the 
last day ofhis third bid for the party's 
nomination. 
"Quite frankly, I'd rather have been the candidate than the con­science and I would rather be presi­dent than peacemaker, but these new titles are better than some of those I gained after 1972," he said at a news conference in Washington. 
He refused to endorse either Hart or Mondale. 
Glenn was set to become the fifth candidate to drop out of the race with the announcement due at a news conference today, according to sources close to the Ohio senator. 
In Michigan, Mondale hammered away at his support for the federal loan that kept Chrysler Corp. afloat and for domestic content legislation. 
"I took my stand and we succeeded," Mondale said on Chrys­ler. Hart "took his stand, and thank God, he failed." 


Hassles, bad timing cited, as causes of LeMans' absence of candidates 
Dive in! 
An arcbi(ect's model of the natatorium to be con­structed on the east side of the ACC, showing the ex­terior beams supporting the roof section. The multi-million dollar addition will bouse a 50-meter 
ByJENNIFER BIGOTT 
StaffReporter 
Campaign hassles and bad timing for meetings are possible reasons why nobody chose to run for LeMans Hall president, according to Mary Anne O'Donnell, director of Student Activities at Saint Mary's. "We've never had no one run for an office and ...I was surprised that no one would take the initiative to get their platform in," she said. 
O'Donnell was not the only one surprised by the absence of can­didates. "The student govern­ment ...was shocked," said Election Commissioner Anne Marie Kollman, who cited a combination of reasons for the lack of office-seekers. The fact that students would have to con­tend with election hassles during mid-terms, the difficulty in uniting students from such a large dorm as 
Hesburgh recalls civil rights post 

By TIMOTHY GIANOTTI 
News Staff 
Fighting for c.ivil rights in the government is a tough and un­popular job, said Father Theodore Hesburgh in a discus­sion of the United States Civil Rights Commission at the Law School yesterday. 
A member of the commission since its inception in 1957, Hes­hurgh traced the legislative war for equality among Ameri~ans from the Eisenhower Administra­tion up to the present. 
"We had to start from absolute scratch." recalled Hesburgh as he described the commission's humble beginnings. The group. appointed by President Eisen­hower and approved by the Sl·nate Judiciary Committee, hl·gan with six men. an empty office and a "huge stack of mail" waiting for them. he said. 
i'hc initial years were spenr in 
im··~ligation with littk action. 
Hl·sburgh noted, "It took us a few 
years to gd geared up." 
After two years of investiga­one independent ( Hesburgh), 
tion, the commission published its first congressional report ­the first of a hundred such reports published in the dozen years Hesburgh served on the commission. 
The six men, including three Republicans, two Democrats and 

Father Theodore Hesburgh 

spent much of their time out in the midst ofthe most severely af­flicted areas, ftlling their congres­sional recommendations with first-hand experience, said Hes­burgh. 
He recounted one of the com­mission's trips down to Montgomery, Alabama in 1958, when the group was barred from lodging in a federally owned building on a United States Air Force base because the commis­sion was a "mixed" group. 
"We had to have an executive order from the President of the United States (Eisenhower) to stay in a federally owned place," Hesburgh said. 
Progress was slow under both the Eisenhower and Kennedy Ad­mmtstrations. Insisting the structure of the existing system needed to change. the commis­sion dug deeper into the areas of justice. employment, education and housing, but no visible 

see HESBURGH, page 3 
Thf.· <lb~<.TYt.'r/l.t·v <:hapclsky 
pool, 25 yards in width and containing two bulkheads to separate swimming actil'ities. Construc­tion will begin next month and be completed in August, 1985, according to Ellerbe Associates, ar­chitectsfor both the ACC and the neu• addition. 
r

LeMans, and the integrated housing plan which is to take effect next year may all have effected students' deci­sions not to run. 
"LeMans is a dorm that in the past has always been seniors. With the housing situation ...the underclas­smen don't think that they have a chance ofwinning," said Kollman. 
Overall, student apathy on campus has not been cited as a factor by either O'Donnell or Kollman. "I can't say that I think it's apathy. I have not gotten that sense from people," said O'Donnell. "It really bothers me ...I don't want to say it's apathy," said Kollman. 
Since no election for next year's president has taken place, applica­tions are being accepted through today for the position. All applicants will be interviewed by current and future Student Body Officers, along_ with Peggy Hayes, the Director of Residence Life at LeMans Hall, according to O'Donnell. Ap­
proximately ten tickets have applied 
so far. 
After the interviewing takes place, the tickets will be placed on a ballot and voted upon. "We do. not feel that it's fair that we choose someone to represent the residence of LeMans. We would like them (the residents) involved in that process," said O'Donnell. 
Hopefully. residence halls will not have to deal with the problem again. Heightened publicity, more aware­ness within the student body, and encouragement to run by current of­fleers may be possible solutions to the dilemma, according to O'Donnell. 
"I would like to set' the people who are in leadership posi­tions ...encouraging good people on their councils to run for those offices the following year. The people who are in leadership posi­tions need to be doing some more of that." 

Intruder shot by guard on White House lawn 
Associated Press Earlier in the day, a 27-year-old 
man was apprehended by Secfet 

WASHINGTON -A White House Service uniformed agents after heal­guard fired at an apparent intruder legedly climbed over the fence at on the grounds of the White House the White House and began walking last night, the Secret Service toward the executive mansion. reported. The man, identified as Keith 
"Somebody was hit," but it was George Mitchetti, was stopped 
not known whom, according to an about 20 feet inside the fence, wit­administration official who spoke on nesses said. condition he not be identified. Ma~· Ann Gordon. a Secret 
President Reagan was not hurt Service spokeswoman, said Mitchet­and whether he was aware of the ti, a Washington-area resident. was incident was not immediately being questioned hy authorities. 
known, according to White House officials. 
The identity and condition of the person reported shot was not known. 
The administration official said no White House staff members were in­volved in the mid-evening incident. 
Secret Service spokesman Mic­
hael Tarr confirmed that a shot or 
shots were fired hut had no further 
informatioP. 
"There's been an incident on the 
Sou~h end," White House spokes­
man Larry Speakes said . 
Happy St. Pat's Day! 

This is the last issut· ofThe OIJ­serf!er until Tuesday. Ma~ch 27. All ot us at The Obserf!er wish everyone a very happy and safe spring break. 
.,'' . 
"­


......................... --........... --····--·--................ _._"'~"' .......,................--------····.. ·--· ~··· ····--........-.-~ ......... 
The Observer Friday, March 16, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief 
The residence halls will be locked during the upcoming Spring Break, according to Father Michael Heppen, direc­tor of student residences. Access may be gained by key or Detex card. Students remaining on campus should make arrangements with the rector of the dorm. Parietals will remain unchanged. The North Dining Hall will dose after the noon meal on Friday, and the South Dining Hall will dose after dinner. The Oak Room Cafeteria, however, will remain open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily and 8 a.m. to 6 
p.m. on Sunday. -The Obsen1er 
Philip Politowicz, a Ph.D. candidate in 
chemistry at Notre Dame, has been selected as a NATO Postdoctoral Fellow. The fellowship program, initiated in 1959 in an effort to advance science and technology, provides its recipients with full­time postgraduate work at institutions and laboratories around the world. Politowicz, of Hanover Park, Ill., is among 19 students who were selected from the physical sciences. He will receiv~ a stipend of S1,SOO a month for up to 12 months, and will continue study next year at Oxford ! lniversity in Cambridge, England. -The Observer. 
Father Walter Burghardt, theologian-in­
residence at Georgetown University, has been named first recipient 
of the Reverend William A. Toohey National Award for Distin­
guished Preaching. The Toohey Award honors the memory ofNotre 
Dame's director of Campus Ministry from 1970 until his death in 
October 1980. Burghardt will visit Notre Dame April 8 to receive 
the award and to preach at the 12:1 5 p.m. Sunday Mass at Sacred 
Heart Church. Burghardt was ordained in 1941 and holds degrees 
from Woodstock College and Catholic University ofAmerica. He is 
editor of Theological Studies and co-editor of Ancient Christian 
Writers. -The Observer 
Experts said the oddswere one in 700 million that 
identical twins Martha Moran Messersmith and Sudie Moran Rigdon of Marion, Indiana, would both celebrate their lOOth birthday. The sisters horn March 14, 1884 marked the century mark Wednesday at Bradner Village nursing home where both have lived for two years. "Nothing special," Mrs. Messersmith said. "just our family and a few gifts." -AP 
A fractious Senate Judiciary committee, 
whose chairman promised that "there will be no cover-up," agreed 
yesterday to open new hearings next week on Edwin Meese III's 
nomination to be attorney general. The committee's plans to vote on 
tht· Meese nomination were skktracked after President Reagan's top 
policy adviser said he had "inadvertently failed" to tell the commit­
tee about a Sl 5,000, interc~t-frce loan from a former White House 
aide. lkmocrats also had more questions to ask Meese about Carter 
campaign documents found in his files and about government ap­
pointmt·nts for men who had helped Meese get out of financial dif­
ficulties. "There will he no cover-up," pledged the committee 
chairman, Strom Thurmond, R-S.C. -AP 
Two promising new products of genetic 
engineering arc being tested on Boston AIDS patients in an effort to "rearm" their weakened immune systems so they can fight offgerms that otherwise would ultimately kill them. The two substances, both natural human proteins which help regulate the body's immune response, arc gamma interferon and interleuken 2. In the test tube, they dramatically restore the microbe-killing power of blood cells taken from victims of acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Wht·ther they will work as well when given to victims of the disease is still unclear. But researchers say they are optimistic that one or both will play some role in treating AIDS. -AP 
Weather 
It's about time to head away from 
this weatht·r. Colder today, windy and partly sunny, with the high in the mid or upper :30s. Partly cloudy and colder tonight, with the lmv in the mid or uppt·r 20s. Variable doudin~:ss and continued cold tomorrow. High in the lower or mid .~Os. -AP 

The Observer 
The Oh.,:rver ( l ~I'~ <;l)<J 2· 1000) " 
puhlbiH.·d Monda) through l·riday and 
on h<Hnt· foothall ~atun.Ltv:-.. t'XCt'pt 
during t·xam and \'Jt:Jtion pc.:riod!-1. The 
Obsc:rver b puhli!'thnl hy tht· !'ttudt·nt,(Jt the.: l '111\'C..'f!'tity of Nfltrc.· Damt· anU !".;lint Man··, <.ollc.·~tt· ~uh!<o<:ription~ 111.1~ hl" pua ha~t·d for $2~ pt·r ) c.:ar {SIr; fll'r ~t·nu.·Ml'r) hy "r111n~ The Observer, P < > BtlX(). ~orrt·l>amt·. Indiana ·t6r;=;c, 
The Observer i' a m<·mhn ollbe As­Nudated Press. All rt·produl'tion ri~ht~ art· rt•st·nTtl 
Totlay's issut.· wa:, prolluct·d hy: 
Production Consultant ... .... Stt.·vc Foster Design l:"dilor ........ Thoma:-, Roht:rt Small lh•st/!,n Assistant..... ..... Lisa Visingard• /.ayout .l'ltlff.... ................. Dorothy Doran 
l)'fJ<'Sellers .................... Vic Sciulli 
Trat.·y Bringan.lnt:r 
N<'U'S lidilor ... ... Mary H<:aky C.'np)• Editor... .......................... Ed Konrady .\j}{Jr/s Copy lidilor......... ...........,ldf Blumh Vieu•point l.t~vout... . .. Kdth Picht..·r N•atun•s Copv Editor... ... Sarah Hamilton Featur('S Lt~youl ., ........... Sarah Hamilton NIJ /Ja)' l:'ditor.... .. .. .Jdl' IIarrington .I'MC /)£1)' Editor .... Thomas Roh<:rt Small .4d Design ....... .................. Boh Slota Pboto!(rapber.... . ............... Lev Chapl"'sky 

Hesburgh, Louisiana's Long: men who had their own way 

One might not think Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hesburgh and long-dead Louisiana tyrant Huey P. Long have much in common. After all, Hes­burgh is Roman Catholic, and Long garnered much anti­Catholic support when he was governor and senator in Louisiana from 1928 to 1935. 
But when it comes to education, the two have much in common. Louisiana State University was made a first­rate university thanks to Long. Similarly, Notre Dame was little more than a football school living off of the legend of Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy when Hes­burgh became president in 1953. 
As soon as Hesburgh took the reins, he made the Uni­versity turn in its pigskin for sheepskin by getting rid of Leahy and setting a new course for the University: to be the greatest Roman Catholic university in the nation. 
Hesburgh has fulfilled his dream -in most every recent survey ofcolleges and universities, Notre Dame ranks highest among all Roman Catholic universities. 
But like Long, Hesburgh does not want to lose con­

paper is falling into "Father trol of a university he built knows best" syndrome from literally nothing. Hes­whereby it sits on the edge 
burgh, instead ofaccepting a of its seat, hoping Hesburgh position of chancellor will descend from 301 Ad­whereby he could travel ministration Building and 
around the world and leave reinstate the workers. all the day-to-day chores of The Observer once before the University to a younger fell into that same trap this member of the Congrega­past year when it hoped Hes­tion of Holy Cross's Indiana burgh would realize that the Province, decided financial and editorial in­(prompted by fawning trus­dependence of the paper tees) three years ago that he were intertwined and allow did not want to hand over the paper to remain finan­
his title to someone else. cially independent. 
So what should students But Hesburgh did not and faculty members tired of wave a magic crucifix and 
Hesburgh do until he dies? Keep up -/he gooJ work, 7erl! sign an agreement with the 
Ignore him, just like he ignores every controversy which goes on at this supposed Utopia called Notre Dame. 
For too long, good Catholic boys and girls at Notre Dame have refused to speak our against Hesburgh's pre­Vatican II notions of authority. Too many persons at Notre Dame seem more than willing to buy the adage "Father knows best" without ever realizing how Mac­hiavellian Daddy really is with his own children while playing good Samaritan with everyone else's children. 
As a former member ofthe Civil Rights Commission, Hesburgh proclaims himself a modern day Ignatius of Loyola who wants to change society within existing structures. And to a large extent Hesburgh has, and deserves praise. 
But when it comes to Notre Dame, Hesburgh is unable to think of the employees and students of the University as any more than his own children. And like children, Notre Dame's students, faculty and staff reli­quish final authority to a person who knows what is best 
-Father. 

• :'l~he= ••• : =Obsenrer__: 
• 

: would like to • : hear from you. ••• 
• • 


• 
• •I
• •·
• Express your •I
.,
•
• opinions
•

• through a letter
•
• to the editor:
•

• P.O. BoxQ :

• 

: Notre Dame, IN :1 
OPEN TILL 6 A.M. 

• 46556 •
'••••••••••••••••L--------------------------...1 
COME ON DOWN!!! 
THE 


FLORIDA bi~dad~S STOPS 

lounaes 
DAYTONA BEACH BIG DADDY'S 21 S. Ocean Ave. 5 levels 4 bars 3 dance floors 2 D.J.'s 1 BIG PARTY! RIGHT ON THE OCEAN!! 

FT. LAUDERDALE THE GRAFFITI 3150 E. Commercial Blvd. *The drinks *The atmosphere *The service *The prices YOU JUST CAN'T BEAT IT IN LAUDERDALE!! 
NORTH MIAMI BEACH THE MARDI GRAS 2355 Sunny Isles Blvd . SHIFTS INTO HIGH GEAR WHEN LAUDERDALE CLOSES!! 

paper, believing that he, as father of his so-called Notre Dame family should not endanger his patriarchal role by introducing unneces­
sary paperwork into the familial relationship of father and children. 
And The Observer, like good little boys and girls, told Hesburgh it only wanted a written agreement between the University and The Observer because it did not trust Hesburgh's successor. Of course, the editorial board trusted Hesburgh. But oh, how wrong the paper was to trust him. 
Louisiana State University, it would seem, was luckier than Notre Dame -it only had to put up with Long for seven years. 
Observer Note 

The views expressed in the Inside column are the views of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the views ofthe editorial board or staff . 
Paul McGinn 
Executive Editor 
Inside Frid 

The controversy surrounding the fired North Dining Hall workers is but one example ofthe many times Hes­burgh has refused to put his public rhetoric into practice at the University. The three managers and two workers fired last November were never proved to be involved in a extortion scheme, yet they were ter­minated. 
One week after The Observer released an article about the firings, Hesburgh still has yet to reply. But then again, perhaps the 

1 
"HOT SPOTS" ON YOUR 
·..·.·.·... 
______L_ 

The Observer Friday, March 16, 1984 -page 3 
Wisconsin sociology professor gets White Chair in Arts and Letters 

Special to The Observer 
Dr. Maureen Hallinan, professor ofsociology at the University ofWis­consin, Madison, will assume the William P. and Hazel B. White Chair in Arts and Letters at Notre Dame. The appointment is effective next fall, according to Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
Hallinan is the second woman named to an endowed professorship at Nore Dame. She joins another sociologist, Dr. Joan Aldous, who 
was  appointed  to  the  William  R.  
Kenan, Jr.,  Chair  in  Sociology  in  
1978.  

A faculty member of the Univer­sity ofWisconsin's sociology depart­ment since 1972, Hallinan received her bachelor's degree in mathe­matics from Marymount College, a master's degree in mathematics from Notre Dame and a joint Ph.D. in sociology and education from the University ofChicago. 
She has been a visiting professor at the University of Chicago and Stan­ford University. She is currently researching children's friendships in school settings, and the effects ofin­structional grouping upon student friendships and academic achieve­ment. 
The William P. and Hazel B. White Chair in Arts and Letters was es­tablished with funds from the Chicago benefactor who received an electrical engineering degree from Notre Dame in 1939. Another endowed professorship named for White is in the English department. 

Sophomores Tim Dahlen (foreground) and Ed Graber do some last minute washing for spring break in the Farley Hall laundry room, which was open to men last night. 
Hesburgh 
continuedfrom page I 
visible results took shape until Johnson came into office, Hesburgh said. 
"The Johnson years were the great years of human rights," Hes­burgh testified. In 1964, 1965, and again in 1968, the commission's bills became laws -the "three laws which changed the face of America overnight," Hesburgh called them. "They wiped out the idea of segregated-by-law education." 
Cooperation with the new laws , tions contributed ·little to the civil 
I 
was also a problem, Hesburgh noted, rights movement, Hesburgh said, 
especially in Mississippi. Again, the and the Reagan Administration's 
pressure applied by the commission rule "has not been a happy time for and its supporters in Washington human rights, either abroad or spurred a reaction to the bills in here," he said. state governments as wdl as in The llnited States Civil Rights private industry. Commission was disbanded a few 
Support from the oval office did years ago, but it has recently been not carry over into the Nixon ad-reformed with all new people. Hes­ministration, said Hesburgh. He was burgh is pessimistic about its future. appointed to chair the commission "As it is presently constituted, you in 1969, only to be fired a few years can forget about it." later when Nixon vented his feelings But he insisted that the strides of over some strong positions Hes-the past cannot he erased, and he burgh had taken as chairperson. ended on a positive note: "1 have alot 
The Ford and Carter Administra-ofhope for America." 

"Iaman ALEXIAN BROTHER ... 
In the 

"I am an Alexian Brother. I want to be present sharing my faith in special service to others, reflecting God's Healing Care and Message." 

Committed to Christ••• 
through a life of fraternal love, prayer and service to the sick, poor, dying and the unwanted. 
• 
ADMINISTRATION. NURSING. CLERICAL. TECHNICAL 

• 
PASTORAL CARE. X-RAY. LABORATORY. ENGINEERING 

• 
MAINTENANCE. SOCIAL SERVICES. PUBLIC RELATIONS 

• 
PHARMACY. COMMUNITY HEALTH. REHABILITATION, and more. 


1 1001 00

•••••••n••••• WRITE FOR INFORMAliON
blcan 
Vocation Director, Alexian Brothers become 600 Alexian Way, Elk Grove Village, IL 60007 
an Please send mort' intormatoon at no obli11atoon 
Name _______________________________
Alexian 
Brother! 
Address 

A Religious 
Community 
of Men Agt•____l;du< dtion _______________ 
·-·­


... 
is accepting applications for the positions of Assistant Features Editor and Features Copy Editor Submit resume to Mary Healy The Observer Office, 3rd Floor Lafortune Deadline: 5 p.m. Wednesday, March28  

1984'Miss Indiana Hemisphere Pageant Applications are being accepted for anyone from ages two to 30 to enter the 21st Annual Miss Hemisphere Indiana State Pageant. Competition will be held Saturday, April14, 1984, in the South Bend Marriott Hotel. Judging to be conducted in eight divisions and segmented into beauty, modeling, and talent. Males are eligible for the talent division only. Winners to advance to the National Pageant in Miami, FL to be held July 22­July 30. Final will be televised live. Over $350,000 in scholarships, prizes and awards will be presented at the national level including twelve automobiles. for information call or write: Colleen Schultz 15840 Homestead Trail Granger, IN 46530 219-277-0647  


.. ~ .. ____________________.... ·-·--·--·-·---------------------------------------------------------------------·--­




~i~~,~_<>__i_ll___t________~--------F-rid~~-,M-ar-ch_1_6,_19-84--pa~ge_4 
Will primaries cost Hart the election ? 
A campaign is its own encapsulated world. It darts from place to place on planes and buses, almost isolated from the news, and, to an t·xtt·nt, from the country it is supposed to he afft-cting. Tllll~ it wa~ startling to pick up a 
Richard Cohen 
The Cohen Column 
m·wspapn here while travding with Gary llart and see splashed across page one an America tot;tlly dift"erent from tht· one he was talking about. 
Back in Washington, the Congress was tied up in knots on the issue ofschool prayer. The lkagan Administraton wants a constitutional amendment and it wants it, we are told, be­cause sd10ol prayer is popular with the pt·opk. Something like HO percent of all Aml"fican~ support it. 
Yet, in campaigning across the South, tht· nation's most conservative st·ction, Hart time and time again has said he was oppost·d to or­ganized prayer in the schools. lie has said what the Reagan administration will not ­that in school a <."hild can pray any time he or she desires. The school merely cannot or­ganize the prayer. 

Hart volunteered his position on school prayer, or he mentioned it in response to a question. Either way, his position did not elicit banner headlines or stories devoted to the issue. If was as if no one much cared. Prayer, shmayer. on to something else. 
Similarly, as Hart campaigned across the South, Washington wa~ in its usual dither about aid to El Salvador. Tht· Congress, par­ticularly certain of its Democratic members, has taken the Administration to task for aiding El Salvador at the same time the so-called Death Squads, either aligned with or sup­ported hy the government, continue their murderous ways. 
Although in recent months the Administra­tion has said it will no longer tolerate the kill­ing of innocent civilians, it seems fair to say that its basic policy has not changed: Given a choice between losing El Salvador to the left 
and having to put up with the Death Squads, it will put up with the Death Squads. 
Hart was saying otherwise. Like other Democratic candidates, he was calling for an end to military aid to El Salvador until the Death Squads cease their activities and the government brings to justice those r~spon­sible. No big deal here. 
But when Hart was asked wh~ther he would end military aid to El Salvador even if it meant a victory by th~ l~ft. he said he would. He did not say that immediatedly, maintaining in­stead that he did not think it would come to that. But the short answer to the question was "yes." 
These are startlingly different views of America -certainly different than the ones Ronald Reagan was articulating in Washing­ton. School prayer by itselfmay not. be the sort of issue that can mak~ or break a candidate, but it represents issues that certainly can. Such issues -in particular, prayer and abor­tion -helped propel Reagan into the Whit~ House. Things cannot have changed drastical­ly in l~ss than four years. 
But Hart's position on El Salvador can be even more crucial. At its basic, he seems to be saying that there is something worse than a country falling into the hands of the left, and that is for the United States to underwrite a morally repugnant policy. 
That happens to be my view, hut history shows that most Americans do not agree. Anti­communism has hcen our secular religion since the beginning of the 20th cen· tury and many, if not most Americans, would probably say that there is nothing worse than a country going leftist, Marxist or communist. 
Hart, however, thinks otherwise. He thinks that the days of knee-jerk anti-Communism arc over -yet another rite of passage for his generation. H~ s~ems to feel the same way about school prayer -that despite its prominence as an issue in Washington, it is somehow incidental. 
Maybe he is right. But it's possible that this former manager of George McGovern's cam­paign is about to repeat his mentor's 1972 mistak~ -taking positions in the primaries that could cost him in the general election. This much is c~rtain: Gary Hart and Ronald Reagan have drastically different views of America. This year America itself will say which one of them is right. 
(c) 1984, T'be Warbington Post Compan_y 


Horse race, dog fight or what? 
Who has the right metaphor for it? Is what is happening to the two leading Democratic candidates a horst· race, a dog fight -or what? But docs it matter what we call it? It does. Th~ metaphors we ust· exprt-ss -and and also 
Max Lerrier 
The Max Lerner Column 
shape -our pictures of the reality bt·hind then1. And when we use the wrong metaphor it means we have the wrong rt·ality by the tail. 
This week's Time magazine cover of Mondak and llart in a neck-and-neck horst"f<Kt" is a traditional onv, Yet what is 
happening  ht·twet·n  them  is  not  a  race.  
wht·ther  betwt"l'n  horst·s  or  humans,  hut  
somt·thing quilt' ditl"ert·nt.  

The obvious difference is that a race is decided among the contestants, by their speed, strength, endurance or whatever, while an election is decided by the voters. 
But it goes beyond that. The voters are not just the calm, rational appraising judges who arc part of our myth of democracy. They are themselves at the heart of the action, identify­ing with the candidates, cheering them on. un­til the line gets blurred between their roles as judges and as actors. 
As for th<: candidates they use every n:source and contrivance to woo and win the voters. They try to gl't inside their minds, tastes and attitudes, and adapt themselves Prott·us-like to all shades of thinking. 
Thus the winning or losing of an electon depends less on the m<:rits of the candidates than on the rdations -mostly psychological -betw<:en candidates and voters. That is where the where the true battleground is. Its 

r~sults get reflected in the "horserace" be­tween the candidates. 
But the results are the end-product of a dynamic process, and the dynamic today is quite simply TV. It transmits the images ofthe candidates to the voters. It almost transmits the images ofthe voters to themselves, as they see themselves refl~cted in th~ image ofother voters. 
Finally there is the "front-loading" factor­the bunching of the ~arly primaries dose to­gether so that th~ impact of an early winner (especially a surprise winner) is multiplied with a dizzying speed. 
The notion that te early prinJilries' voters are more "independent" than in other states is a dubious piece of rhetoric. The "independence" of each consists in following the lead of the voters in the preceding caucus or primary. Aftt•r Iowa they dust~red around the image of other voters who had clustered around Gary Hart, much as groupies follow othergroupies who race to get at the new star. 
What is being call~d "momentum" is actual­ly an acceleration effect, close to hysteria, which is part ofthe psychology ofmass feeling and action. 
Once a n~w favorite is spotted unexp~cted­ly the voters abandon the earlier favorites to be in one the sudden turn toward the winning sid~. Th~ old and cold inevitability becomes a new hot inevitability. 
It may be obscured by the glittering star ap­peal of TV, but presidential el~ction politics has always been war and is still war. It is nasty, unforgiving, heartbreaking, ruthless, cunning. It adds the dark ekment to the exercise of choice in a democracy. 
But if we are asking for a metaphor the dif f~rence today is that it has become a war of images, fought out to the bitter end on a bat­tlefield which is really a room of mirrors. 


N.D. forfeiting ideals for military 
The recent \'kwpoint hy Captain Drt·w llamilton (The anti-military attitude at Notr£' /Jame) has compdlnl me to rt·spond. <:urrently. this llnivt·rsity is forll:iting it~ Cath· 
Bill Krais 
Guest column 

olic ideals hy promoting and furthl'ring its support and involvemt·nt in the military. 
Notre Dame's advocation of the military is t'Xt'mplitkd in thrt·e ways: university invest· mt·nts. R.o:r.c. program and its policy regarding financial aid recipients who have failed to regbter for the draft. Concerned stu­dents must rally and maintain the Christian spirit which opposes war and destruction. and promotl's frt·edom, non-violt·nce, and peace. 
Notrl' Dame,"one of the nation's prl'mier Catholic institutions," is currently inv~sting substantial funds into five American com­panies, each ofwhich is receiving over SO per­<."t'nt of its revenut·s from defense contracts. and is involved in the produnion of a major nuckar wt·apons system. 
The actions of these companies, General 
Dynamics (Cruise Missile Production), 
McDonnell Douglas (Cruise Missile Produc­
tion). Lockht·ed (Cruise and Trident Missile 
Production), Hughes Aircraft (Cruise and Tri­
dent Mbsilc Production) and Martin Marietta 
( MX, l't·rshing II, and Titan Missile Produc­
tion) are implicitly condoned by the annual 
investment of million~ ofdollars in these ftrms 
hy tht· llnivcrsity. 
Is supporting companies which produce 
nuclear weapons compatible with the Cath­
olic doctrine? I firmly believe that our country 
has the intentions ofusing these weapons on a 
limit~d basis, at one time or another. 
If this is the case, our Universitv would be supporting the creation of w~apons which would he used to kill vast numbersofp~ople.l rt·ally do not think that Christ had intended his Catholic church to finan<.'ially support the production ofsuch weapons. 

I am further perplexed as to why this ,·ampus has not only one of th~ largest, but one of the "best" RO.T.C. programs in the na­tion. If Notre !}arne is interested in educating tht· mind as well as the spirit, as they have said, then why does the University curriculum of­f~r classes which teach students how to kill more efficiently? 
Ifthe University believes that they may help achieve peace and freedom by producing qualified soldiers, they are mistaken. War has never preserved democracy, never resulted in a lasting peace. and never effectively guaranteed frt·edoms. 
By supporting the R.O.T.C. program, the University is submitting itselfto the American imperialism which is just as caustic as Soviet suppression. Now, in Nicaragua, the lbited States is supporting a revolution which is aimed at ov~rthrowing the leftist government now in power. 
Sounds like Afghanistan to me. It should be Notre Dame's responsibility to educate the students to the atrocities which plague this civilization. I believe that Christ would rather see his people enroll in classes which will benefit mankind, not those dedicated to the killings ofothers. 
Each summer, draft age stud~nts who are eligible to receive financial aid are requir~d to submit a form attesting to the fact that they have fulfilled their "civic duty." Schools across the nation, including Swarthmore Col­lege and Yale University, r~cognize that this unjust law is not in agreement with th~ nurturing of one's ideals, ethics, and convic­tions. 
However, there ar~ schools, some ofwhich . 
claim to be dedicated to excellence, that fail 
to recognize an individual's conscience and 
beliefs. Once again. the llniversity of Notre 
Dame has submitted to the gov~rnment's will. 
Not only do I believe that Christ would not tight in a war, just or unjust, hut I also feel quite certain that he would not register for a draft. Do you know what this would mean? Christ, ifhe w~re to enroll at Notre Dame next fall, would not be allowed to receive financial aid. 
Captain Hamilton, if you had Iook~d a little furth~r. I am sure that you would see that Notre Dame is indeed d~dicated to this country's military. They are perfectly content to t1nance it, support its members, and per­secute those who oppose it. 

Yes, Captain Hamilton, Notre Dame has dis­regarded its commitm~nt to peace and justice and is dedicated to suppression and in­stability. The really sad part is that the Notre Dame students arc perf~ctly content with each ofthe afore mentioned policies. 
I am convinced that all ideals and ethics have been stifled, and this University, in its support of exploitation and military might, will march into int~llectual mediocrity and moral oblivion. 

1'. (J. /Jox !]..Vutn! Dame. IN 46 5 56 (.!I Y) 239-5303 
1be ( Jhsert•er b tht· intlt·p~ntlt-nt newspapt-r puhlishnl by tht· stud~nts of tht· l'ni­ver~it\ of Notrt· Damt· du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It dot'S not nen·ssarily retlect tht· policit·~ of tht· adminbtration of dthn institution. The nt·w~ is reportnl as ac· curatdy ami as ohjt·nivdy as possihlt·. l"nsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters. and the Inside Column present the \"iew~ of thdr authors. Column space is available to all n'lemhers oftht· community. and the fret' expression ofvarying opinions on campus. through ktters. is encouraged. 
Editorial Board Editor-in-Cbief...............................David Dziedzic DepartmentManagers Managing Editor .......................Margar~t Fosmoe Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn Business Manager .. ..........Christophe•· Owen News Editor................................. Bob Vonderheide Controller ................... ........Alex Szilvas News Editor....................................Mark Worscheh Atlt•e1·tising Manager ... ........... .Jeanie Poole Saint Mary's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski Circulation ManagPr .. ........ Mark Miotto Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan \rstems .\.tanager.... .......Kevin Williams Viewpoint Editor................................Keith Picher. Features Editor... ...Sarah llamihon · 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Phuto Editur................................. . ..Scott Bower 
.... 

•·• • .-.-:. •·• .,_.. .,._.J. ~-• .:r.,-J:r..--• ~ .,..,.,.1 _. .. ,. .. ,..,.,._.H#.::o ,.,.'6' ~ ... .r.• ,.~ c •~,. • • 5"C • c•.c• li & 1: &' w-w: • • 'I .-'I • " • • 'I -.. ~ s -&., •--= c. s, ~.
t1 11: • • ._ &
9 



Showcase 
Friday, March 16, 1984 -page 5 

Letters to a lonely God 
The silent treatment 
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 
I
n one ofChaim Potok's novels, a distinguished Hasidic rabbi uses silence as a way of raising his gifted son to be a caring, compassionate adult. Outside of religion, the boy and his father never talk ofanything. The son discovers the whole world ofsecular scholarship, which he sets out to explore; nothing is ever men­tioned to his father; because of the discipline ofsilence, they discuss only the Talmud. The father cares desperately about the boy, but he can't reach out to him, or put his arms around him. The boy must find his own answers, which lie close to the heart, without his father to help him. 
By the end ofthe novel, the reader feels that despite the pain it causes, silence is the most effective way this rabbi could reach his unique child whom he loved as much as he loved the Master of the Universe. The silence is so complete it becomes a language full ofmeaning. 
You don't have to beJewish to use silence as a pedagogical tool. Much goes unsaid between parents and children. Aparent thinks: "This child of mine will learn from making mistakes. I could tell him or her a thing or two which would be helpful ifit were taken to heart. Children don't always appreciate being protected from disappointment. Love sometimes means you have to let a kid find out for himself, without interfering. 
A parent's pride gets hurt at watching an offspring fail at some­thing. Nowhere is it written that a son or daughter always has to be suc­cessful. The best kind ofparental faith trusts that a young person is bright enough not to make the same mistake twice. 
Silence, however, existing be­
tween members ofa family, is notal­ways a kindness. Often we don't talk to each other because we feel we have nothing to say. A number ofstu­dents going home for spring break will treat their own parents as though they were strangers. Others will head for Florida as a way of avoiding the family with whom they've stopped communicating, Their parents are relieved that they're not coming home. They love the smooth-talking young adults get­ting a Notre Dame education, but they don't really like them. Junior is bright, argumentative, and beats his dad at tennis. The Irish American princess is snippy, aloof, and liberated enough to make her folks feel old-fashioned. In going to col­lege, the young birds said goodbye to the nest. They're welcome to come back, but it is more peaceful when they stay away. Kids given all the advantages come home too ed­ucated to be enjoyable. Students returning to campus sometimes say: "I can't talk to my parents. Sitting at dinner, I can't relate to them. A wall ofsilence divides one end of the table from the other. Words lay on the linen cloth like dead birds which have broken their wings against an invisible barrier they can't get through." 
Silence becomes numbing after the conversation fails. With a crowd at a meal, I'm tempted to say to an ac­quaintance who has grown quiet: "Has the cat got your tongue?" which is dumb, or"Apennyfor your thoughts," which is risky. The longer the silence, the more frightened I become of myself as a perfect block­head no one wants to talk to. Even if someon_e else tries to talk, I think in my panic, I don't have a thought in my head with which to answer him. I'm too dull for a stranger to listen to. 
Ifyou are a Trappist on the lookout for God, silence is rich with truth and insights. Ifyou're Potok's rabbi loving your son enough to expose him to risks, silence is as dan­gerous as a heavy sea in which you let a child tread water until he learns to swim. Ifyou are a shy introvert facing a black tie occasion, sitting like a bump on a log, silence is a so­cial hell where you are tortured by having your tongue tied. The Lord described an occasion when, ifthe crowds remained silent, the very rocks would cry out. You, in your misery, think with envy of those noisy rocks. In a society where we talk to enjoy ourselves, silence looks like an enemy wearing the mask of the devil. 
Sitting at your parents' table as quiet as a mouse, you could fmd it worthwhile to size up the silence. Silence can be sullen, not caring, not trying, because you've given up. Contentment, too, wears a quiet face. Love and unspoken pride can be too shy to have much to say. The best things happening at dinner may not make a lot ofnoise; happy moods don't need much conversation. The most hushed place I ever was in was a chapel ofthe Carmelites, where the nuns were busy offering worship and receiving graces in transactions not needing language. 
Silence is manageable when people prefer their privacy because it's evening, and they're too tired to talk, or morning, when they're not awake yet. The silence that needs to be re-negotiated is the wordless vacuum that shuts offfrom our caring, those who have a right to ex­pect more. We have withdrawn into our private world. The office issuing passports "in" or "out" has been closed. 
There is a time to keep silent and a 
time to speak, the Bible says. You 
don't have to be as wise as Potok's 
Hasidic master to use silence as a 
form ofspeech, but you have to be as 
good as he was to turn it into a tech­
nique oflove. 

Students added to hospital staff 
Special to The Observer 

T
he image of a hospital emer­gency room is rarely an inviting one. Physicians and nurses rush to administer critical care; patients can become frightened and confused; families and friends anxiously await news oftheir loved one's condition. 
There is, however, a more inviting way to approach an emergency room. A patient-family liason program developed by a Notre Dame professor has been es­tablished in Elkhart General Hospi­tal's emergency room. 
Dr. Irwin Press, professor of anthropology, calls the program "a unique effort to go beyond the candy striper approach" in provid­ing personal services for emergency room patients, their families and friends. 
Fourteen Notre Dame pre-med students work as the liasons. They staff the hospital's emergency room as support personnel every day from 4 p.m. to midnight. Press em­phasized that the students are not meant to take on the jobs ofpsyc­hiatrists, social service workers or chaplains, but are intended to complement the existing emer­gepcy room staff. 
"Our students provide a warm, in­terpersonal contact with patients, families and friends. and they help prevent the over-emotional reac­tions that can sometimesoccur in an emergency room." The students work closely with the medical staff to keep families and friends in­formed ofpatients' conditions, relay messages and listen to problems which are then reported to the physician or nurse in charge. 
In addition to working in the emergency room one four-hour shift every week, the students have reading assignments and attend dis­cussion sessions tci earn three credit hours toward their degrees. Press said that while the students are working in the program they are considered staff members ofthe hospital, not just volunteers. 
"The students really receive a broad range ofexperience," Press explained. "They provide interper­sonal and emotional support to the patients, families and friends, but they are also able to observe emer­gency room procedures and can speak with the physicians and the nurses. They will get to know in­timately the emergency room operation and its relationship to all of the other aspects ofhospital care." 
The project ultimately has two goals, Press said. The first is to demonstrate the importance ofin­terpersonal factors in'emergency room settings; the second is to sen­sitize future physicians to patients' perspectives ofsickness and clinical care. 
Press's work with Elkhart General officials to initiate the liason program is a direct result ofhis own studies in the cultural aspects of clinical medicine. He spent the 1980-81 academic year as a visiting professor at jackson Memorial Hospital ofthe University of Miami School of Medicine developing cul­tural and anthropological insights into clinical care. 
Among the anthropolgical in­sights hospitals should recognize, Press said, is the distinction between disease and illness. "Patients suffer from diseases; diseases are physical. But patients also suffer from illness. Illness is the behavioral, emotiQ.nal reaction to being sick. A patient can carry a complex baggage ofillnesses when he or she is sick." 
His studies are also probing patients' perspectives ofclinical care -the factors that affect how a patient will evaluate a hospital stay and how those factors might, in turn, influence the filing ofmalpractice suits. 
In the meantime, Press said, the liason program has been so success­ful at Elkhart General that he would like to see it expand to include South Bend hospitals. On campus, he would like to add classroom instruc­tion to the on-duty training so that students are able to approach the ex­perience as a laboratory course. 

Miss Manners 
When a restaurant isn't a sideshow 
by Judith Martin 
T
he right to use the word "fine" in connection with dining is hereby revoked until further notice for all commercial establish­ments. Miss Manners finds there is an inexplicable amount ofpublic awe for expensive restaurants, and remarkable little knowledge in them of the basics ofproper service. 
In what we shall call the "slow food restaurants," the practice by the staffofintentional rudeness -designed to have the same effect on patrons that cruelty on the part ofteenagers has on those who have crushes on them -has blinded people to their ineptness. People would not dare be that arrogant, the customers seem to figure, ifthey were ignorant. Oh, no? 
Do you know a single restaurant that is free ofall the following travesties? 
• 
Failing to provide the proper eating utensils, such as dessert spoons, and fish knives for fish, instead of meat knives. 

• 
Using improper terms. An "entree" is not the main course ofthe meal; it is traditionally, on endless and fattening menus, the course served just before the meat course. "High tea" is not scones, cucum­ber sandwiches and meringue cookies; that is just "tea." "High tea" is a simple supper, with soft-boiled eggs and meat pastes, nothing fancy intended. 

• 
Interrupting the customers when they are talking to one anoth­er. Miss Manners cannot remember when she has seen a waiter stand discreetly by, waiting, as his job description suggests, for a pause in the conversation or a look ofattention on the part ofthe customers. They all just jump right in and talk over the conversation until they kill it. 

• 
Checkingwith the lady after beingtold what she wants to eat, as ifthe gentleman who repeated this were unauthorized to speak for her. This is a new one, undoubtedly ass~ciated with the obsoles­cence ofthe custom by which a lady gives her order to a gentleman who places it with the waiter. Miss Manners is not defending this odd tradition, but only asking that those who still practice it not be cross­examined. You may be sure that no gentleman today would have the nerve to announce, "Madam, will have the steak," if Madam had not instructed him to do so. 

• 
Serving filled dinnerplatesfrom the kitchen. Miss Manners does not expect food to be transferred from serving dishes to individual ones by the table unless the restaurant has pretensions to grandeur and prices that pay the dishwashers. But only the restaurants that make a silly show of table-side preparation, expecting the attention ofthe diners as if they were at a sideshow, seem to do this anymore. 

• 
Making an even sillier sideshow ofserving the wine. Miss Man­ners, who has a weakness for a bit ofchampagne, is tired ofwatching gentlemen who know better, obliging waiters by going along with the ritual oftasting it. This is not properly done with sparklingwines, as they go obviously flat ifthey have turned. Even if the ritual is done correctly, it is rarely done properly, which is to say inconspicuously. 

• 
Serving any which way. Food should be served from the left; if there is a crest on the top ofthe plate, that goes at the top. 


All right, Miss Manners feels better after getting all this out. She does not want to be accused, however, ofexpecting this sort of service from informal restaurants. She doesn't even really expect it anymore in so-called luxury restaurants. Her intention was merely to wipe the smug looks from the faces of those who run such es­tablishments. 
DearMiss Manners -A man asked me to a movie. When confirming 
the date, he asked ifl would like to go to dinner too. He picked a res­
taurant, gave me a vague description of the location and said he 
would meet me there. 
I found the exact location of the restaurant with some difficulty and took a cab. When looking over our menus, he suggested one ap­petizer and two entrees, saying the meal would be served family style. It wasn't. So he gave me halfofhis dinner and held up his plate for halfof mine. 
I started putting pieces ofmeat on his plate. Then he, eyeing a 
large piece, stabbed it with his fork and put it on his plate. When the 
bill came, he stared at it for a long time and then said, "It will be 
about SlO-$10 each." 
I was surprised, but without batting an eye I gave him $10. At the movies, he went in line first and bought his ticket only. I paid for mine. After the movie, he suggested a drink, which he paid for, and offered me a ride home. 
The date was pleasant enough, but I was surprised Iwas expected to pay most of my own way. Shouldn't he have made this clear from the beginning? Gentle Reader -Alas, we are living in confused times. There are gentlemen who are insulted when a lady shares the expenses ofan eveningout and gentlemen who are insulted when she does not. Let us be charitable and assume that this particular person moves in a circle where sharing is expected, and did not therefore feel obliged to declare himselfas deviating from what he thought were conven­tional standards. 
The one thing that Miss Manners can tell you is that you will not find happiness with this gentleman. The custom ofsplitting ex­penses has become a socially acceptable alternative to the still dominant one of the gentleman's paying and the lady's finding ways (an aunt's theater tickets being the chiefway) ofreciprocating. 
But grabbing the best piece of meat from another person's pl!te will never be socially acceptable. 
Showcase 
Friday, March 16, 1984 -page 6 

Spring break basics: 

sun, ·surf and safety 
A
lthough tomorrow marks the of­8:.30 a.m. to 8:30p.m. diversions. Depending on the loca­ficial beginning ofspring break, Whether or not Florida is your tion, vacationers will be greeted most students will he pulling our of goal this week, there are some im­with music, either live or projected Sourh Bend today. Although some portant driving tips to remember for on the giant multi-media screen; a pt·opk arc hopckssly destined for a safe trip: can-redemption center, where Bud­such places as Perth Amboy, N.J., • Don't exceed the posted speed weiser empties can be traded for Boise, Idaho, and Covington, Ky., limit. spring break memorabilia; the ever­some students arc making the • Bring along flashlights, flares and popular message center service plunge south to the sun and sands of a spare tire, just in case ofemer­where students can call home free Florida. No matter where spring gencies. for three minutes; and other fun-in­break tlnds the students of Notre • Don't drink and drive, and drink the-Iii n activities. Dame, the automobile is probably in moderation, at all times once you Welcome Centers will be set up at their mode of transportation. Other arrive at your vacation spot. Daytona Beach on A 1 A North or at than counting the cows along the • Don't litter. Hold onto any candy Fort Walton Beach under the red highway, and singing "Nint·ty-nine wrappers, empty soda cans and and white striped tent at Wayside Bottks oflkt·r on the Wall." (the cx­apple cores, until you can deposit Park. tt·nded version if necessary) there them in a proper garbage container. The rock band Heart will appear sonlt'times is a lack ofexcitement on (There will be plenty of waste cans at Daytona Beach Thursday, March America's highways and biways. at the Budweiser Pit Stops.) 22 at 8 p.m. On March 20, Mike Love 
Tragically, the monotony • Remember: Ifyou're a respon­and Dean Torrence, beach-music sometimt·ss indirectly causes car sible driver, you won't become a waver,will mark their opening a<:<:idents. Alcohol is often also statistic. spring break appearance at Fort n:sponsiblc. This year, Anheuser­Along with providing safety Pit Lauderdale at 1 p.m. The golden Busch, Inc. is providing hot coffee, Stops, Anheuser-Busch is also hos­throats of the acappela University of donuts, and highway safety tips at ting a variety ofacitivities which Budweiser Glee Club will add a new and different note to the musical For more information about the line-up during the Budweiser Daytona, Fort Lauderdale and Fort Poolside activities, will perform at Walton Beach program, vacationers various times and places in the area. should contact the Chamber of Also known as the Angoras, the Commerce in each area: Daytona three-woman vocal group produces Beach (904/2SS-0981 ); Fort harmony and rhythm with no instru­Lauderdale ( 30S/462-6000); and ments. Fort Walton Beach (904/244­
Budwt'ist·r Pit Stops on major inter­stress fun tempered by moderation 
state highways kading to Florida. for all Florida spring breakers. "We This is 10 encouragt· students to stop want students to be able to look and n·st during their trek to the back on their spring break with fond 
lll'aches li1r spring brt·ak ft·stivities. memories," said Donald R. Lake, 
The sound of
Tht· Pit Stops art· sponsort·d by Bud­Anheuser-Busch Florida division wl"isn and tht· Indiana and Georgia manager. "Ifthey stay away from too State Tourism Departments. Each much sun or alcohol, or not enough 
New Orleans 
Budwl'isl'f Pit SlOp will provide free ~kep, and if they partake in the 
P
to all visirors. rdrt·shments, tourist program we have developed just for reservation Hall jazz Band, a
infilflnation and spring break ac· them. I'm sure the students will ex­
group ofNew Orleans musicians
tivily inli1rmation. pl'Tiencc a wonderful vacation." 
who have created theirown spirited
The Stops will ht· locatnl along[. Spring breakers are invited to en­sound, will perform at 8 p.m. March
(><; in llenryvilk. Ind., [.7<; in tl'f video game contests at the .30 in ()'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint 
Valdosta, Cia., and 1-lJ<; in Savannah, Budweiser Welcome Centers, Mary's.
Cia. on i\larch I (>·I H. and 25·2<;, from which will olfer a wide range of Preservation Hall jazz is sweet, sad, gentle, exuberant music that evolved from turn-of-the-et'ntury street parades, saloons and river boats in New Orleans. This special, unique music has an unmistakable beat, but the sound allows the musicians a freedom ofphrasing that literally commands audiences to stamp their feet and shout. The musicians determine what selec­tions they will play by the reactons 
(5) I. Somebody's Watching Me, Rockwell ofthe audience. No two concerts are 
(-) 2. Let the Music Play, Shannon the same. When not on tour. the musicians
T 
(2) 3. Holiday, Madonna 
are based in Preservation Hall, a 

(4) 4. S~nd Mean Angel, Real Life 
building in New Orleans' French 

0 
(3) 5. G~rls Just Want to Have Fun, Cyndi Quarter that has served as a house, Lauper 
tavern, art gallery and most recently, 
(7) 6. State ofthe Nation, Industry musk hall. One of the most popular(-) 7. Her Comes the Rain, Again, Eurythmics attractions in New Orleans,
P(I) 8. 99 Luftballoons, Nena Pr'eservation Hall perpetuates the 
New Orleans sound.

(-) 9. Show Me, The Pretenders 
The concert is the third event in

(-) 10. Hyperactive, Thomas Dolby 
the 1983-84 Saint Mary's Performing Arts Series. Tickets, priced at SS for general admission and $2 for senior citizens and students, may be reserved by calling the Saint Mary's ticket office at 284-4626. 




--------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~· 
The Observer 
Baseball 
continuedfrom page 12 
Pitchers Mark Clementz, Tom Conlin, Joe Dobosh, and Buster Lopes are the four experienced hur­lers remaining on the depleted pitching staff. Jason Schomer, Mark Watzke, Steve Powell, John Gleeson, and Kevin Rudge now will have to contribute a great deal. 
Even with the abundance ot strong players on this squad, Gallo has no visions of one star player emerging over the season. 
"Everyone will have to play well and contribute for us to do well. I hope we have nine leaders out there every game, all doing their job." 

Buster Lopes 

After last year's disappointing record, Gallo also has set some goals that he hopes to achieve. A winning record is first on his list, and he also hopes to make the Midwestern City Conference Playoffs by finishing frrst or second in the conference's North­ern Division. The winner of that tournament would receive an automatic hid to the NCAA regional playoffs. 
The first step in the quest ofthese goals is the upcoming swing through Texas. The team will play a total of twelve games, and although the list of opponents does not include any "big names", Gallo sees the trip as being exceptionally difficult. 
"The trip is tough," he says. "We aren't playing any 'big name' schools, but that doesn't mean any-. thing. St. Mary's, one of our op­ponents, beat Texas (the eventual NCAA Champions) last year. The University of Minnestota is always one of the top teams in the Hg I 0. 
Most of the teams we play will al­ready have played twenty games. It will be some very tough competi­tion." 
Yet, no matter how tough the competition, Gallo is eager to begin the season. 
"It looks like we have very good potential to be suc<:essful. But I want to start playing some games, because I can only tell so much practicing inside." 

t t t t t t t t 
t t 
t Buy t t
f~ Observer: 
t 
Classifieds: 

t 
t t t t 

Friday: "Spring Break Castoff" 

Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 Imports ... $1.00 
HOW TO GET YOUR UNCLE TO HELP YOU PAY OFF YOUR COLLEGE LOAN 
If you have taken out a National Direct or Guaranteed Student Loan since October 1, 1975, our Loan Forgiveness program will repay 15°/o of your debt (up to $1 0,000) or $500 
whichever is greater, for each year you serve. 
Find out more about how a Reserve_EniJalmlnt can help pay for college, call us: SGT Jones 234-4187 Call Collect 
ARMY RESERVE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE 
SoonerOrLater You'llGetBesponsiblli~ LikeThis. InTheNavyIt'sSooner. 
You're maneuvering 
ment experience that 445 feet of guided could take years in missile frigate through private industry. And the navigational they earn the decision· hazards and non-stop making authority it traffic of one of the takes to make that world's busiest ports. responsibility pay off. 
But you'll dock As their manage· safely. Because you ment abilities grow, 
know your equipment. You know your men. And even when the responsibility weighs in at 3,600 tons ... you're ready. 
After four years of college, you're ready for more responsibility than most civilian jobs offer. Navy officers get the kind of job and responsibility they want, and they get it sooner. 
Navy officers are part of the manage· ment team after 16 weeks. Instead of boot 
camp, officer candidates receive four months of leadership training. It's professional school­ing designed to sharpen their technical and management skills. 
Then, in their first assignment, Navy officers get manage-
Friday, March 16, 1984 ~ page 7 · · 

I&~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
off ·N'tl 
,Sou-o.h 
~ 
Students interested in surveying the North East Neighborhood during break Please contact: 
John Kennedy 
233-6298 
im~ 
Student Union 

PRINTING SERVICE 
New·Replacing campus Press 
Bring camera-ready poster art to S.U. Record-Store for your posters and table tents 
r ;;'v~~~U;;-T-;-----; ~ 1 
promotions and pay in­

Navy officers can take advantage of advanced education and training in fields as varied as operations management, electronics, and systems analysis. In graduate school it would cost you thousands; in the Navy we pay you. 
And the Navy pays well. The start­ing salary is $17,000 (more than most companies pay). And that's on top of a comprehensive benefits program that can include special duty pay. After four 
years, with regular 
INFORMATION CENTER 

P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015 
0 I'd rather have responsibility sooner. Thll me more about the Navy's officer program. (0G) 
Nam~--~----~~~--~~--­
First (Please Print) Last Address_____________Apt. 11-----­City_________State_____Zip._ I Age.__tCollege/University :j:Year in Colle tGP1L________ I&Major/Minor I Phone Number 
(Area Code) Best Time to Call This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to fur-
I k~:w~~6'e %c!~e~~~::h~:~nto7e~:~e~~ec~j~· otfhNa~~7,o;i~ 
I I I 
I I
I 

L=f::.hi::o:=l:... _-_-__J 

Navy Officers 
I creases, the salary is upI to as much as $31,000. If you qualify to
1 
be an officer in the Navy, chances are you have what it takes to succeed. The Navy just makes it happen faster. 

GetResponsibility Fast. 

' r---------------------------------------,_.-.....-.-----------------------------~..--~~------.,·--·-·-.... 
Friday, March 16, 1984-page 8



Sports Briefs 
Next week, however, janis will be get a good seed because I came in free of hi:i captain's role. He will be first in the Great Lakes and my
Janis 

competing in a field of30 ofthe best record is pretty good." 
continued/rom page 12 sabre men in the country. The com­With a good seed, Janis will face will be held on Saturday, March 31, at a time and place to be an­
Women's Bookstore Basketball sign-ups 
(pull the fencers together) more petition will consist offive rounds of easier competition in the early nounced after Spring Break. Women may play in the men's tourna­
than any one person on the team. He round-robin fencing, with six fen­rounds, helping him to get a good ment, though. -The ObsertJer 
did it by his leadership; he did it by cers eliminated in each round. The tournament record and high seeds his example -by the way he fenced six who make it to the final round in the later rounds. on the strip." will be honored with all-American The only obstacle beside his op-
status. ponents that Janis may face at the
As captain, it was Janis' respon­tournament is unfavorable officiat­Start warming up for the NVA tennis tournament. 
sibility to lead the sabre men and the ing. In sabre, a fencer wins byEach hall may enter one team and the entry deadline is Wednesday, 
rest of the fencing team, a job janis scoring five touches on his op­April 4. More details will be given here at a later date. -The Ob­
says is not easy. ponent, which are counted by the
sen,er 

"I find it very hard to motivate the director ofthe bout.guys -especially on the sabre 
Janis explains that the Irish may
t~am," the captain says. "It's kind of 
face some problems because the
tough, but I enjoy it. I like to be in 
directors are not familiar with the

Keep training for the Irish Spring Run, a six-mile race charge of things." 
fencers from Notre Dame.

DeCicco, who refers to the sabre spring break. Trophies, t-shirts, and prizes will be awarded. -The 
around campus, the lakes, and the golf course. It's coming up after 
men as "characters," sympathizes 
"We have a slight disadvantage 
withJanis' situation. going out there where they haven't "The overall team in sabre is seen our styles, and we're not sure enough to drive you to drink," how they're going to call things," 
Obsen,er 

In exhibition baseballyesterday, it was: Atlanta 9, 
DeCicco says. "They are a very good Janis says. "You learn to adapt a little. Los Angeles I; Texas 4, Houston 0; Toronto 7, St. Louis 5; Boston 5, 
sabre team. We thought that we had If the director's not calling a certain Pittsburgh 4; Cincinnati 5, Chicago ( AL) 3, 10 innings; Kansas City 2, 
that in the beginning ofthe year, but call, you're going to stop doing that Montreal I; New York (NL) 9, Minnesota 7, IO innings; Cleveland 
and do something else."
they didn't seem to want to prove it

14, San Diego 7; Oakland 6, Chicago (NL) I; San Francisco 6, Seattle to anybody because they didn't Disadvantage or not, janis has an
6, I I innings -tie; Milwaukee 5, California 3. -The Obsen1er come to practice regularly. excellent shot at making the finals of "I sense that Mike just got the the competition next week, and that damn thing together and said, 'Hey, 
is the goal he has set his sights on.

The schedule for Stepan Center over 
Mike Janis
this is what we're going to do,' and

spring break is as follows: Today -Closed for soccer clinic; Satur­they went out and did it, and it's to Janis, who finished 18th in the "Right now, I want to be an all­day 3/17-Open play from 6-10 p.m.; Sunday 3/18-Soccer 
Mike's credit." NCAA tournament in his freshman American,'' Janis says. "That's alwaysclinic from 2-6 p.m. and open play from 6-IO p.m.; Monday 3/19, DeCicco explains that a good cap­year, did not go to the champion­been a very high goal for me."
Tuesday 3/20, Wednesday 3/21, Thursday 3/22 -Open play 
tain is important, even in a sport ships last year. This year Janis is
from 6-I 0 p.m.; Friday 3/23 -Closed for a concert; Saturday 3124 such as fencing, in which the ath­confident that he can do well. That goal may be within reach of-Closed for use by the Phy. Ed. Dept.; Sunday 3125 -Open play 
letes compete individually. He says 
Janis Wednesday, as his family and

from Noon-I p.m. -The Obseroer. 
the captains are especially impor­"Seeding is going to be very im-friends come out to cheer him on to everybody else." portant," Janis says. "Hopefully, I'll during his own homecoming. 
Penn State, and Columbia," says qualify its women's team as a "team­
Fencers Allen doubts move of
Janis. "It's going to be up for grabs. at-large" for the NCAA Women's I'd say that Wayne State is probably Fencing Championships (March 22­continuedfrom page 12 the favorite but I think that we have 24 at Princeton), the Irish will be a really good shot at taking it from represented by freshman Pia Al­
Colts to Arizona true 
qualifying round to win a spot at them." bertson, 37-2, who went undefeated Princeton. both at the Great Lakes Champion­Associated Press hadJohnny Unitas andJohn Mackey. 
The last two national champion­"Health-wise, this may be the frrst ships and in the NCAA qualifying PHOENIX, Ariz. Arizona But they've probably had the worst ships for Notre Dame in fencing time that I've had them all together round. Wranglers Coach George Allen said record in football over the past were in 1977 and '78. In each year, where they're all healthy," says yesterday that he seriously doubts seven years. All you have to do is the Irish had two fencers finish first, DeCicco, "and they all know what to "Pia is in the top ten of the Baltimore Colts owner Robert Irsay give them a team that's well­with an epeeist also coming in do. country," says DeCicco. "She can will move his National Football managed and they can turn things fourth in '77 and a foiler also coming conceivably win it (first place at the League franchise to Phoenix. around." in second in '7H. "I think that every one ofour fen­NCAA's as an individual), but she "But if Baltimore loses the Colts, Irsay reportedly is considering 
cers will at least have to make the would have to be fencing at her very it'll be a great city for the United shifting his club to either Phoenix or 
Since 1978, the Irish team has had semi-finals and that we'd have to get best." StateS' Football League to move in­Indianapolis. second place finishes both in 1979 as many into the finals as possible," to,'' added Allen. "It would be a and last year. In each of these years, continues DeCicco. "At least four of Next week's NCAA champion­tremendous addition to the USFL. The new Hoosier Dome in In­there was a first place finisher for our fencers can make the finals. To ships will be the conclusion of both That city is blue-collar. They sup­dianapolis awaits a possible NFL Notre Dame. win the national championship, I the men's and women's 1983-84 port sports so well, and the Orioles tenant, while a club transplanted in 
think that a team will have to have seasons. For the men, hopefully the are a good example in baseball. Phoenix would have to play in Sun "There arc only four teams that six people in the semi-finals." end result will be a third national "I remember Baltimore when it Devil Stadium in suburban Tempe have a chance -us, Wayne State, While Notre Dame failed to championship. was a great NFL city, when the Colts -home of the Wranglers. 
The Obsen1er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. unti14 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon· day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters erda 
Lost-gold Armitron dig1tal watch wed. FOR SALE: GREEN OVERCOAT, I need 2Graduatlon tickets tor my two Im­
O:WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF A CHEG

n1ghl March 7 at the ACC track call Mike at LARGE, IN VERY GOOD CONDITION migrant korean adopted sisters who have 
GOT HIT IN THE LEG WITH A BALL

NOTICES FOR RENT
·14721tlound. Thanks. MARINE SURPLUS. BEST OFFER· never been to college. Call Matteo 277· 
DURING A BASEBALL GAME? A: IT 6219.
CALL PATIY AT 8654 

WOULD BREAK HIS Tl58. EXPERT TYPIST 277·8534 AFTER 5:30 I lost my Notre Dame class ring-class of 
Attn. new Hall Pres. 1 yr old Foosball table Do you have a great aenM ol humor?
HOME NEAR CAMPUS. $245 PER
1985,inrtials engraved RRH it a Do you think you
was 4-sale ex. cond., ideal for hall game room. are lunnier than the
MONTH&$245 SECURITYCOMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE • Chrlsmas gift from a very spec1al person­
Must sell. 234-0319 Best oHer. average guy on campus? Then shareDEPOSIT.272-6306
2n-8045. WIpick up & det1ver much sentimental value. Please call Bob O:WHAT IS BEITER THAN A BUSLOAD 
your talents. The Observer features at 1010 or return to Lost & Found. OF CHEGS GOING OVER A CLIFF? A:A 
Attn. new Hall Pres. 1 yr old Foosball table department is looking for humor colum­
WORDPROCESSING Fast. accurate EE SIITING ON EACH OF THEIR LAPS. 
4-sale ex. cond., ideal for hall game room. nists to write regularly. For information work. 272·8827 Must sell. 234-0319 Best oHer. contact Mary Healy at The ObserverLOST: One pair ot BLACK SKI GLOVES 
office. 3rd Floor ot LaFortune. "QUEST FOR GOLD" either in the Art Bldg. or in the Business WANTED 
BUY OF THE WEEK: MEMOREX DIS. ESOPHAGUS CONSTRICTORS
Charity tash•on show sponsored by the Bldg. or anywhere around there. 
KEITE 5 1/4" SINGLE SIDE,DOUBLE FEVER ... contriiCI ttl HIEd! 
Desperately needed aas winter is stillSophomore Class. Tuesday. March 27, DENSITY PRICE $1.90 CALL 232-9349 
upon beautiful South Bend. Please call AFTER 5.00 PM. THE ELEPHANTS ARE COMING Ill
8:00 p.m.-ACC Monogram Room-$3.00 SYRACUSE, NY BOUND? 
Steve at 8428 In the evenings 
TICkets available at the door I need • ride to SyriiCuM or Rochester How come Becky knows all the words to 
lor Spring Breek. Wlllahare ex,..nMa. 
Wealthy yolllg man with a habit giving Don't Stand So Closs To Me?? 

EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME Pie...cell Dabble
LOST?? Navy blue ND plaStiC bill told­awa large amounts ot cash needs ride to
CALL MRS. COKER 233-7009 2114-4311
SMC Clubhouse-Sat 1 Oth-AIIID's-driver's Columbus. OH, for spring break. Call license.exchange card.student 
Howie at x 1765. It might not be Lauderdale. but I can't wait 

EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. 
for all you guys to enjoy the sights and tun ID,m1nlster card, etc please return them-I CALL MRS. COKER 233· 7009. 

.1 PERSONALS
NEED them tor break.-Mary Rose 7852 Contemplative Sisters on Adams Rd.. Limited no. ot tickets tor NEIGHBOR· ot Jersey.l'm really glad you're all coming 
home. We'll make It the resort spot ot the 

S.B. desire priest to cele-brate Mass. Call HOOD ROOTS at dining halls, 4:30 · 6:30TYPING AVAILABLE-217-4082 
272-9425 March 12-15. Atlantic seaboard, yet. LOST: One pair ot BLACK SKI GLOVES either in the Art Bldg. or in the Business OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 1983-84 Observer StaH: Bldg. or anywhere around there. lam DESPERATEforaridato ATLANTA CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE HAVE YOU INSURED YOUR NEW Dedication and sacrifice are not always Desperately needed aas w1nter is still for Spring Break. Anybody going to BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. COMPUTER? CALL GLEN NEELY rewarded around here. Your efforts as in­
LOST/FOUND 

Florida could drop me off along I·75. Can STATE FARM INS. 272-6565.0R 272-dividuals are apprec1ated more than you'll 
upon beautiful South Bend. Please call 
leave Friday afternoon. Call David at 277· FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE. SEND A 1780. ever hear, and far more than you'll everSteve at 8428 in the evenings. 
7326. BELL YGRAM TO YOUR SHEIK! PH. realize. Actually, you were supposed to 272-1858 DC CLUB BUS leaves 8:30 pm Friday I lost my Notre Dame class nng-class of 
read thiS in the Christmas issue but our Chnsmas g1ft from a very spec1al person· 1985,1nitials engraved RRH 1t was a Library Circle. Arrives DC Greyhound trusty typesener tailed us once again. TheTO WHOEVER ENDED UP W/MY LIS­
I DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO 8:30am Sat.
COSMOS FEVER ......... CURE ITIIIIIII Observer is a beHer newspaper because 
much sentimental value Please call Bob GENGE AT NICKlES ON SAT NITE, I COLUMBUS, OH, FOR SPRING ot this year's staff. And my junior year has at 1010or return to Lost& Found. 
WOULD LIKE IT BACK.. PLEASE CALL BREAK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. 
been much richer because of all of you3452 OR MAIL TO 244 HOLY CROSS. 

CALL HOWIE AT xt765. THANKS.
LOST; STRAWBERRY RED BROOKS G.E.e Kathy, I sure wish I could be there Dave-We couldn't have asked tor a bet­Many thanks. 
BROTHERS SWEATER. ALL WOOL, to celebrate your birthday with you! Will ter year' Thanks. Margaret PULLOVER. I LOST IT 2 OR 3 WEEKS you accept a three week raincheck? AGO. IF FOUND, RETURN TO LOST Love. Tod Magg1e.
FOUND: SET OF GM CAR KEYS FOR SALE Dave,
AND FOUND ON FIRST FLOOR OF AD· MIN. BLDG. OR CALL BUDDY AT 8278 FOUND AT THAT INCREDIBLE ATLANTA ATLANTA ATLANTA Thanks tor everything. No one could have It's over. We did 1t. You·ve made the past COLOUR PARTY. PLEASE CALL 277­
ANYTIME. REWARD THANK YOU ST. David needs a ride to Atlanta for Spring b.ll.!l'L a. better model of cold-and­year and a hall at th1s place very 6219 AND IDENTIFY. 
A.P.F.U. Want to know what's really g01ng on 1n the break. Call him at 277-7326. heartlessness. a bener manag1ng editor rremorable tor me. There's no one I'd 
Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL tor th1s young and Impressionable rather work with LOST: ONE SET OF CAR AND DORM CATHOLIC REPORTER, the o~ly SPORTS DEPT. THEORY NO.5: features editor. and a friend. too. Aga1n. Margaret KEYS ON A KOOL.JAZZ KEY RING. • lost. Blue bookbag in A-B L1ne. North newspaper ol the U.S. Church For sub­The Features Dept. Will just never be the thanks P S. L1ke I once sa1d. we make a pretty CASH REWARD. CALL CHRIS AT D1n1ng Hall. Had Spamsh and Pol Theory scnption Information and a free sample same after today Look forward to see1ng good team 4665. books inside Please call Laura at 2913 copy. call Paul at 277-4851 Skin Talk Sarah 
r--------------------------------~ 
.... -.. .. .. ... ...............___..,.,."'....."'........._..._,......,.,....~....,,,_,.,_.,. ,_•.;
___~,_.___ 

he Observer Friday, March 16, 1984 -page 9 
For those snubbed by NCAA and NIT 
What does the Student Union 
Loyola coach sets up tournament 
Associated Press "It should be a howling success CHICAGO -A handful ofcollege for the guys not invited to the big 
Record Store 
basketball teams are all dressed up balls (the NCAAs and National In­with 20 victories and no place to go. vitation Tournament). We had a bet­Loyola Coach Gene Sullivan, ter record than 24 of the 32 teams snubbed by post-season selectors a playing in the NIT this year," said 
have for .me? 
Records, tapes at least $2.00 below list price 
third straight year, wants to lure the Sullivan, whose Ramblers finished 
leftovers to an affair of their own, 20-9 this season. 
call it the Cinderella Invitational
Any record or tape may be ordered 
--takes 4-5 days NO EXTRA GOST 
Tournament -and hand a silver Sullivan has extended bids to the slipper to the winner. inaugural event to Bucknell ( 24-5),
Blank tapes: 
Sullivan met yesterday with the Illinois-Chicago ( 22-7), George potential backers of the event, set Mason (21-7), Montana (23-8), for either of the last two weekends Navy (24-8), Samford (22-8), and 
TDK SA 90's 2 pk--$6.00 1--$3.25 
TDKSA60's 2 pk--$4.50 1--$2.50 
in March in the 10,000-seat Univer­Ohio University ( 20-8).
Maxell UDXL ll's 2 pk--$7.00 1--$3.75 
sity ofIllinois-Chicago pavilion. "And the Cinderella, with each 
He estimated he would need a team having more than 20 wins, will minimum of 50,000 dollars, but expose the backroom discussions declined to name the "major and the unfair practices that lets the coporation" involved. NIT selectors bring their buddies to 
Postage Stamps 
In 1886, following a shipwreck offthe west coast ofAfrica, an infant 
child became part ofa family ofapes who raised and protected him. 
As he grew, he learned the laws ofthe jungle and eventually claimed the title, Lord ofthe Apes. 
Yet, years later, when he was returned to civilization, he would remain uncertain as to which laws he should obey . .. those ofman . .. or those ofthe jungle. 
Now, the director of "Chariots ofFire" captures this epic adventure of a man caught between two different worlds. 

the (Madison Square) Garden (site ofthe finals)," he added. 
The Cinderella would represent another volley by Sullivan, long con­sidered a maverick by his peers, in his battle with college basketball's establishment -especially the NIT selection committee. 
In the two previous seasons, Sul­livan's Ramblers posted records of 17-12 and 19-10. In 1981-82, he groused about the NIT's selection of Oral Roberts-which went 18-12, but was beaten by Loyola in the Mid­western City Conference's post­season tournaent. 
He called the selection of last year's NIT field "blatantly bad," claiming Loyola should have been picked ahead of all three Midwes­tern entries -DePaul ( 1 7-11 and beaten by the Ramblers), Northwes­tern ( 16-12) and Notre Dame ( 19-9 
against  competition  Sullivan  con­ 
siders  weaker  than  his  own  
schedule).  

Last week, Sullivan suggested Loyola sue the NIT, a ploy that was quickly rejected by the school's ad­ministration. 
"Sure I'm an agitator and maybe I've hurt my chances of getting invited to post-season events by speaking out," concluded Sullivan. "But I've always had faith in what Thomas jefferson said. 'That the test ofan idea, good or bad, is public ex­posure."' 
David Cawood, assistant ex­ecutive director ofcommunications for the NCAA, didn't hop on either side ofthe fence. 
"I haven't heard about it happen­ing before. What (Sullivan) does is his business . . . I don't think any response from the NCAA is neces­sary." 
Arizona governor sees Irsay 
ASsociated Press 
PHOENIX, Ariz. -Gov. Bruce Babbitt said he and Phoenix busi­ness executives met with Baltimore Colts owner Robert lrsay in Bakersfield, Calif., yesterday to dis­cuss a potential Colts move to Arizona. 
"Nothing was decided, but a deci­sion has to come soon for him," Bab­bitt told a news conference. :·u we can strike a deal that's good for Arizona State University and Arizona, that's fine. But I said there wouldn't be a nickel of taxpayers' money involved." 
Earlier in Annapolis, the Maryland General Assembly had handed Irsay a concession he had been seeking for several years -the right to start Sunday football games at I p.m. in Baltimore Memorial Stadium. And Maryland Gov. Harry Hughes said at a news conference he would sign the bill when it reached his desk, ad­ding, "I think that's one thing Mr. lr­say has had a legitimate complaint about." 
Reports here had said Babbitt and the business group were to have met with Irsay in Las Vegas, Nev. Later reports said Irsay and a colleague checked out of a motel there after seeing television cameras and that Irsay's plane had flown to Fresno without him. There also were un­confirmed reports the Phoenix busi­ness leaders were to meet with lrsay later last night in Fresno. 
Here, Babbitt brushed aside ques­tions about his and much the same group of business leaders .having been stood up by Irsay two months ago when the Colts owner cancelled a scheduled meeting in Babbitt's 
office. 
Babbitt emphasized that he had no idea whether the talks would come to anything. 


The Observer Friday, March 16, 1984 -·page 10 
With Florida trip 
Golfers hope to repeat history 
NBA Standings 

Dave Moorman 
"I want to instill in their minds that if we play the best courses in Florida it will help make them better players," continued O'Sullivan. "It's going to help us in the long run. "It has to make us hecause it did in '79." 
After an impressive season last year, which included a first, second, and third place finish in tourna­ments, and three seniors in the start­ing line-up, no one should wonder why O'Sullivan is so optimistic about this year's team. 
"This year I have one of the best _teams that I have coached in my eleven years," said O'Sullivan. "I mean better in skill and attitude towards the game ofgolf. Sometimes in golf there aren't positive vibes among the players, but in this team there aren't those vibes." 
Of the eight monograms earned hy the starters, captain Dave Moor­man owns two, and much of the success of the Irish will depend on his performance. Moorman placed 
1 

third in the highly prestigious 
Do You Need a Full Time Summer Job? Do You Live In The Chicago Area? 

iPSI MARKETING is expanding our Telemarketing lsales Staff to accomodate additional summer college ~tudents. In the past, our summer students have learned, on the average, of $150-$525 per week salary I !commission during the summer. We offer an extensive ~raining program, great hours, flexible shift schedule, guaranteed salary, and congenial working atmosphere. 
What's the Catch? 

You must be aggressive, willing to learn, an above average student, and enjoy talking on the phone. 
Call our Toll Free number 1-800-621-6426 before Spring Break to set up an interview date while you're in Chicago during your Spring Break. If accepted, you can lock up a summer job ahead of time. Ask for Mr. Davis when calling. 
ByJOE BRUNETII 
.\jmrts Writer 

Notre: Dame: golf coach Noc:l 
O'Sullivan hopes that history will 
repeat itself this season for his Irish 
Sl)Uad. 

In 1979, O'Sullivan's team played 
impressively and just missed a bid to 
the NCAA GolfChampionships. That 
year he took his s4uad on a "special" 
trip to !'lorida which only involved 
playing rounds ofgolf, with no com­
petition against other teams. 
O'Sullivan will use the same strategy 
this year, hoping the trip will help 
hring the Irish an invitation to the 
NCAA's. 

"I'm only doing this because I have skill and maturity (in my players)," said the II th year mentor. "I wouldn't do this with a young team. I'm doing this because of my seniors and tht· overall ahility of the: players." 
O'Sullivan has scheduled the Irish 
to play the toughest courses in 
Florida, whkh are not usually 
availahle to college teams this time 
of year. He has arranged for the Irish 
to play on such notable courses as 
Indian Creek Country Club, the 
Evt·rglades Country Club, and the 
PGA National Golf Course. 
O'Sullivan feels that the trip to 
l'lorida will he a good r~prcst.-nta­
tion ofthe team's potl·ntial this year. 
"If our guys can mangage these coursl·S well it will give: the players and myself an indication of the team we're going to have," commented O'Sullivan. "On paper we're hril­liant. hut now when we come back we will have a sound understanding ofhow good we arc skill-wise." 
lie feels that the difficulty of the courses in Florida will help his team's performance later in the season. 
"These courses have a high de­grt-c of difficulty," said the Irish coach. "Playing these courses will give us emotional stahility, huild our conlldence, and give us an excellent approach for the season. 

Kepler Invitational last year. 
O'Sullivan has nothing but words of 
praise for the senior. 

"He's highly respected by his 
team," said O'Sullivan. "He's the best 
all-around captain I coul~ ask for. He 
performs well on the golfcourse and 
in the classroom. He's number one." 
Two other seniors, Dave Pangraze and Frank Leyes, will fill out two other places in the Irish starting line­up this year. Pangraze has three monograms to his credit, and he finished last year's campaign with an impressive 78.1 stroke average. Leyes, a South Bend native, is com­ing off a good junior year in which he owned the team's lowest com­petitive average. 
"These three players arc ex­perienced, matured, skilled, and disciplined," praises O'Sullivan. "They have it all. I'm hlessed as a golf coach." 
The other three starting spots will be filled by two sophomores and a freshman. One-time monogram win­ner John O'Donovan had an outsanding freshman season, during which he placed second in the Wol­verine Invitational. 
"He had a super fall (this year)," said O'Sullivan. "Last year he was one of the best freshman." 
Lon Huffman, the other Irish soph­omore. will receive a starting spot af­ter not competing in the starting six last year. 
"He ha~ strong potential," com­mented O'Sullivan. "He got his chance this year because he deserved it and earned it." 
Freshman Chris Bona will round out the Irish line-up. Bona comes to Notre Dame with impressive credentials after winning the Illinois State Championship as a senior in high school. 
O'Sullivan hopes that competing in this year's Midwestern City Con­ference Championships will help the Irish reach the NCAA's. The Irish were members of the MCC last year, but could not compete in the cham­pionships because ofexams. 
"We have a championship to go to and that gives us a better chance," said O'Sullivan. "Ifwe win the cham­pionships we have" an excellent chance ofgoing (to the NCAA's)." 
When the Irish leave for Florida today, there is no doubt that O'Sullivan hopes he will he able to repeat history. 


BISCAYNE COLLEGE SCHOOL OF LAW Miami, Florida 
Biscayne, a new law school, is accepting applica­tions for Its first class to begin in August 1984. 
The only Catholic law school in the Southeast, Bis­cayne is Ideally located in suburban Miami on a 140 acre campus. The School will offer a three­year, full-time program, with small classes, modern computerized research facilities, and the oppor­tunity for specialized study in a variety of areas, In­cluding International law. 
The Biscayne College School of Law intends to seek ABA provisional approval as quickly as possi­ble, which will be after the first year of teaching. 
For information write or call: Office of Admissions, Biscayne College School of Law, Dept. W, 16400 NW 32 Ave., Miami, FL 30054. (305) 621-1856. 
Biscayne Is an equal opportunity Institution. 
SUMMERSCHOOL 
INCLEVELAND 
AT JOHNCARROLL UNIVERSITY SESSIONI SESSIONll June 18-July20 July23-August23 
Gain one year in one summer! 
• 
Business • Mathematics 

• 
Computer Science • Natural Sciences 

• 
Education • Religious Studies 

• 
English • Social Sciences 

• 
Humanities ... and others 


To get our Schedule of Summer Classes, mail coupon or call (216) 491-4318 
John Carroll University 
Director of Summer Sessions• University Heights, Ohio 44118 
Nrun~ ---------------------------------------
Addres.'> -------------------­
City________.:____
Stat~ 
Zip 
Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
w L  Pet.  GB  
Boston  49 16  .754  
Philadelphia  41 24  .631  
New York  40 25  .615  
New Jersey  35 30  538  14  
Washington  30 36  455  19.5  
Central Division  
Milwaukee  39 28  .582  
Detroit  38 28  .576  .5  
Atlanta  32 36  471  7.5  
Chicago  24 39  381  13  
Cleveland  23 41  .359  14.5  
Indiana  19 47  .288  19.5  
Western Conference  
Midwest Division  
w L  Pet.  GB  
Dallas  36 31  .537  
Utah  36 31  .537  
Kansas City  31 34  .477  4  
Denver  30 37  .448  6  
San Antonio  28 38  .424  7.5  
Houston  26 39  400  9  
Pacific Division  
Los Angeles  42 22  .656  
Portland  39 27  .59t  4  
Seattle  32 33  .492  10.5  
Phoenix  31 36  463  12.5  
Golden Stale  30 35  .462  12.5  
San D1ego  24 42  .364  19  
Yesterday's Results  

Kansas City 1 08. Indiana 1 07 New York 105. Cleveland 82 Los Angeles 143. San Antomo t 24 Seattle 106, Ch1cago 90 Utah 115, Golden State 111 
THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA & PUB 
"BRUNO~" 


wishes Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's 
a happy 
Saint Patrick's Day!!! 

THIS OLD HOUSE PIZZERIA & PUB 

BRUNO'S  
lieDIXIEWAYN  
277-4519 ROSElAND S..clay: 0.-·-..-cia~· .......16­...................7.95,..,1....... .  277-4519 OPEN 80JIDAY..,.  

STUDENTS 

............._...___,.,...._ ...-·..-·-· ......._... --..-·...--·-·--------··------------------------l
.........·-··..-·-·..----·..-·. ...._ ··-·-· --.............__----------~---·-. 
~c:tcJlCl~---------------------------------F-rid_a.y,_M_M_c_h_~6-,_19_8_4__
p_ag•e--11 

Bloom County 
FRANCIS, MY MAN... 
ART,
WHitT VIIJ€.0 
7tSSIF.. 6/RL,

W£/RVNE55 DO 
YOU HAVE: IN MINI? Al?r.t 
1HI5 TIME, 

Mellish 
YH,FOLKS! IT'S FATHER TEl> ON HIS WAY TO SUNNY FlORlM... 
11

5lTTlN' ON TilE BEAll!r WITII A SIX PAcK-" .f) 
Ull.oH! IT's 
J/'~

/iiC 
GONNA HAVE: WIW SETS.' Wl~f? flANCERS .'PRY IC6 / {XPt.0510N6 1 
fiRe i KNIVGS-' V'REAM 'SfJ}Ue/JC£5. 
5PAC£SHIP:J-' llEVf~S .1 /?EMONS .' ANV II {X)UN 5TR!P6/J M005e 
TRAMPr..tNb .,, II VOCK5WAG£N 
WJTION.1 


Ull... FATHER TE 7 
fur TilE PEDAl TO TilE MfTAL! 
I --· 
--~ 
Guindon Richard Guindon 

Another 'In and Out' list... 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 27 Title for 52 Punished 6 Confuse 1 Salamanders a sen. or by fine 7-majesty 5 Chiromancy rep. 55 Friends of 8-de mer 
item 

28 Hero myth 
9 Shock: var.
9 Flooded 
32 Church 58-Moun· 
10 Elk 14 Blow instrument tains, Ark. 11 "-o'clock 33 Tip-top 59 A Gardner 
15 Ancient scholar" 
34 WWII 60 "Do-
theaters 12 Regal 
agency others... " 
address 
16 Paved rec 35 Pocket 
61 Lets 
area "friends" 13 Cartwright
62 Provotes 
17 Friendly ofTV
39 Chimpor 63 Tennis 
orang rank 
wisdom 20 Perceptible 40 ireland by touch 41 Bitter DOWN 
19 Pressed 
21 Actress tonic 1 Sixth 
23 "No man is Ella 42 Antitoxins sense an island" 44 Shaver 
2 Dart 
poet22 "Of -I 45 Exaggerate 3 SamoanSing" 46 Leg part cloth 24 Fountain 4 Ghostly 
treats 23 Nincompoop 48 Nervecell 5 Indian 25 Figure of 24 Reserves 49 Prayer mounts speech 
Berke Breathed 
OKAY... A 


Campus · 
HAlf fJOZaJ

FRANC/5 ... 
WHAT'S OUR M0056! 
ew!'J£r r... 

\ 
No Events for today Saturday, March 17 
•6 
p.m. -St. Patrick's Day Mass in Gaelic, Rev. Eman McMullin, ND Log Chapel 

Sunday, March 18 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Liturgical Prayer," Prof. Mark Searle, Sacred Heart Crypt 

•8:
15 p.m. -Concert, ND Concert Band Spring 



&Dave 

Concert, ACC 

TV Tonight 
6p.m. 
6:30p.m. 7p.m. 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
7:30p.m. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 The MacNeil/Lehrer Report 16 NBC Nighrly News 22 CBS News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 Joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 16 Barney Miller 
22 Family Feud 28 Wheel ofFortune 34 Straight Talk 16 Legman 22 Lynda Carter Special 28 Benson 34 Washington Week in Review 28 Webster 34 Wall Street Week 16 The Master 22 Dallas 28 Blue Thunder 34 inside Business Today 34 Enterprise 16 The New Show 22 Falcon Crest 28 Matt Houston 34 Austin City Limits 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 16 Tonight Show 22 CBS Late Movie 28 Thicke of the Night 


8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 
llp.m. 

11:30p.m. "Guess who!" 
26 Rubber· 47 Traffic 
necker sounds 27 Cache 48 Generous 29 Generous 49 Smell 

one 50 Demolish 30 Chose 51 "-old 31 Cow-catcher cowhand..." 33 Indian, 52 Thirsty, 
for one old style 36 Eye part 53"-Kleine 37 Caper Nachtmusik" 38 Syllogistic 54 Social 
refutation appointment 43 Classify 56 Tchrs. org. 45 Daisies 57 Turf 
Thursday's Solution 


© 1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 3/16/84 
8/f(/SH"G""A"RDENsANN"Ou~.,.~~~J: 
~ l A. Complete Range of Floral Services To~_. ~ ~~~~ Chicagoland!!* ~~ 
• 
$27.50 for 1 dozen roses boxed and delivered! 

• 
Sr. Formal Specials Del'd anywhere in Chicago 

• 
Next Day Delivery in ~ost cases! ~~ , ,,\ t1' 

• 
Many other offers ava1lab~et' ~ r{1 


For details, see us in LaFortune Basement Today or ca/1283-6867 Hrs: 12:30-5:30 Mon-Sat 
~~-r~~~~~~.-2-J~_!JJ~~ocx'IOtJ 
What does the Student Union Record Store have for -me? 
• Records, tapes at least $2.00 below list price Any record or tape may be ordered--takes 4-5 days 
NO EXTRA COST  
Blank tapes:  
TDKSA 90's TDKSA60's Maxell UDXL ll's • Postage Stamps  2 pk--$6.00 2 pk--$4.50 2 pk--$7.00  1--$3.25 1--$2.50 1--$3.75  

Friday, March 16, 1984 -page 12

S~orts 
Notre Dame fencers go for third national championship next week 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL Leading Notre Dame's hid for the In the foil, the Irish also will be .\ports Writer national title will be highly favored well represented, where sophomore junior Mike Janis in the sabre divi­Mike VanderVelden, 32-8, and fresh­
Whik most of Notn: Dam~: is on sion. _Janis won the gold medal at the man Charles Higgs-Coulthard, 43-6, hrt:ak next wt:t:k, Mikt: DeCicco will Great Lakes Championships on will compete at Princeton. he kading his Irish fent:ers to Prin­March 3, going undefeated in the At Great Lakes, VanderVelden and ceton l lnivt·rsity, where they will hl' process. Higgs-Coulthard finished second vying for their third national cham­Janis, 40-3 on the year, was the top and fourth, respectively, while in the pionship in seven years on March 20 Irish finisher in the sabre at the l9H2 NCAA qualifying round the two and 21 at tht· 19H4 NCAA Men's Fen­NCAA men's championships. That came in first and second, in the same cing Championships. year, he finished 18th in a field order. While they have only the ex­
DeCicco, head coach oftht: Notrt: which boasted fencers from 66 dif­perience ofthree Great Lakes Cham­Dame fencing tt:am with a lifetime ferent schools. pionships between them, their rt:cord of431-40, will bringsix ofhis That experience as a freshman, talent and experience gained during rm:n to compett: against fencers along with his improvement and ex­the past sea.-;on should be enough to from across tht: country, including perience gained since then, have get them into or beyond the tough tht· ddending national champions, made Janis one of the top, if not the semi-final round. Waynt· Stat~:. top, sabre men in the country. Tht: showing of tht:se two will be 
While the Irish lost to Wayne State "I have a shot (at winning the crucial to Notre Dame's chances as a during this past season, they did sahre competition) hut it's going to team and the first place finish it managt· to oven:ome the Tartars in ht· tough," commented Janis. "I just hopes to achieve. tht· <irt·at Lakes Championships, hope that I'll fence my best and get Notre Dame's epeeists will be led whkh Notre Dame won. and in an up there." hy strong and talented junior Andy NCAA qualifying round, wht•rt· the Joining Janis at Princeton in the Quaroni. Quaroni, captain of the Irish took first place in every in­sahrt· division will he sophomore epee squad with a record of 34-3. 
dividual weapon. Don Johnson. Johnson, who finished finisht:d second at the Great Lakes 
"The national champion will fourth in the sahre at the Great Lakes Championships after downing the probably ht• decided hy the four Championships, took first in the tournament's top seed. Quaroni also schools who eat·h have six (or at NCAA qualifying round to earn his finished first in the NCAA qualifying ka.o;t four) fencers in the NCAA's," spot at the NCAA's. He wa.o; 35-6 round to earn a berth in the national says DeCicco. during the sea.'iOn. tournament. 
Joining Quaroni in the epee will be sophomore Brian St. Clair. St. Clair, 3 I -9 on the season, came in
Tennis team faces eight 
seventh at the Great Lakes tourney but finished third in the NCAA 
see FENCERS, page 8

matches in Florida 
By ED KONRADY cayne tomorrow. Then it is Florida .\ports Writer National, Miami-Dade, and the Uni­
Going home 

versity of Miami on consecutive Today the resurging Notre Dame days. men's tennis team is travelling south Following a needed day of 
Janis leads fencers to Princeton 
to Florida for their annual spring recuperation on Wednesday, the hreak trip. Irish face Central Florida, Rollins, St. ByPHILWOLF one ofhis 15 bouts. cause several of the top sabre men 
This road trip, however, has its Leo, and finally Eckerd on Sunday Sports Writer According to Head Coach Mike missed meets hecause of injuries share of perils. The team will face before returing home. DeCicco,Janis ha.-; been fencing par­and illness. John Edwards, Don eight matches in nine days. But the "Rollins is quite a good team, and For many of us, spring break is a ticularly well for most ofthis season. .Johnson, Tony Consoli, and Kevin biggest pothole the Irish must face is I heard that Central Florida is a time for homecomings, and Notre "In January, he made the finals of Stoutermire all missed meets this 
eighth-ranked Miami. tough team," said Fallon. "If we Dame fencer Mike Janis is another the USFA's (United States Fencing sea.o;on. In fact, Janis was the only 
Miami, who lost three players to come out with .500 record, I'd con­one who will be travelling home Association) Collegiate Open, and, sabre man to rt:main healthy for the the professional ranks this summer sider that pretty successful. It's more next week. The Franklin, N.J., native up until his last bout, it looked like entire sea.-;on. and yet is still strong enough to important to see how we adjust to will return to his home state to com­he wa.o; going to win the gold medal," In addition to his excellent fen­maintain such a high national playing outdoors day after day. This pete in the NCAA Men's Fencing DeCicco says. "Well, he missed ear­cing, Janis filled his role as captain of ranking, will he a tremendous chal­will be a good test of our consis­Championships at Princeton on ning the gold medal at that tourna­the sabre squad well, according to lange. tency." Tuesday and Wednesday. ment, but from that week on he's DeCicco. 
The players' first chance to show Janis, the captain of the men's been steadily improving, and, as you "Janis came hack (this year) as the 
"We expect to be tested," said off their tans will be just two days sabre team, is one ofsix Irish fencers can tell from his record of 40-3, he sabre team's captain," DeCicco says. Head Coach Tom Fallon. "We'll be later on the Tuesday after break, who will be competing in the was damn good." "Then we started suffering some facing a mixture of very good teams when the Crusaders of Valparaiso tournament next week. DeCicco's praise for the 5-8, 1 50-little nit-picking injuries and opera­and some weakt·r ones. come to the ACC. The match begins Janis qualified for a spot in the pound junior is not unearned, since tions, and he pulled it all together. 
"Uopefully we'll know more of at 3 p.m., and, if weather permits, it NCAA Tournament by winning the Janis' 40-3 mark is the best of all of "I have to confess," the Irish tht· caliber ofthe team after this." could be the first home match this gold medal in the Great Lakes Cham­Notre Dame's men fencers this year. coach continues, "Mike Janis did it The young Irish will start their sea.'iOn at the Courtney Tennis Cen­pionships held at Notre Dame March It was important for the sabre cap­
see JANIS, page 8

working vat·ation hy playing Bis-ter. 3. In that tournament, he won every tain to fence well this year, too, be-

Baseball team opens season with long road trip to Texas 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
Pitching will be the question mark as the Notre Dame basehall team opens its 1984 spring season with a long road trip to Texas over spring break. 

"We've had injuries to two of our top six pitchers, Brad Cross and Dan Sacchini," says Head Coach Larry Gallo. "Only four of our nine remaining pitchers real­ly have any experience. I don't know how they'll perform." 
Yet, even with the inex­perience ofthe pitching staff, this spring's edition of Irish ha.-;ehall appears to be very promising. 
Defense will be one of the team's strengths. Although this is a very young team. there is a great deal of experience at the defensive positions, and <iallo is very high on his defense. 
"We should he a very good defensive club," he said. "In fact, this team ha.-; the potential to be 

the best defensive club I've ever had here." 
This fact will be welcomed hy Irish supporters, who watched as an abundance of defensive mistakes led to losses in la.-;t year's campaign. 
The team seems to have the ability to develop into a strong hitting squad, but Gallo prders to remain quiet on his assessment of his sluggers at this time. 
"I don't like to say too much about hitting at this point. We haven't been in a game situation yet, and I don't know what they can do. After we get back from this trip. with ahout twelve games under our belts, I'll know more." 
Gallo does know. however. who will have to pert{>rm well for his team to accomplish what he wants. Especially important will be the play ofthe Irish middle in­fielders. Junior second baseman Jackie Moran, a three year starter, and sophomore shortstop Tom­my Shields should provide a steadying influence for the team. Captain Carl Vuono will he an in­tegral part of the team, both as a leader and as a first baseman. Mike Metzler, Jim Dee, and John Murphy will vie for the starting spot at third base. Metzkr and Dee also will provide help at tlrst ha.o;e. 
Steve Passinault, Casey Snydt:r. and Mikt: Trudeau arc the mainstays of the Irish outfidd. These three will he aidt:d hy an especially strong group of fresh­men outfielders. Mike Angelina. Darryl Kaelin. ·.John Loughran. and Mike Woodcock all havt: tht· talent to contribute to the squad this year. 
David Clark. Mike Dorning. and Brian (iihhons form an imposing trio of catcht:rs. All three will play. according to Gal­lo. hecause they an· so l'Venly rnatcht·d. 
see BASEBALL, page 7 




