
~--~---------·----~----------­
Regina lofts page3 

VOL. XIX, NO.J/ ~ the indt:pendent student newspaper ser\'ing notre dame and saint mary's WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1984 

Police break up off-campus parties, arrest seven 

Future arrests expected because of alcohol policy 
ByJOHN LAYELLE 
News Staff 

Police responding to telephone complaims of "large, out of control parties" broke up student parties at Campus View and Notre Dame apartments Friday night, arresting at least seven Notre Dame students on charges of liquor-law violations. 
And early Sunday morning, two others were arrested at another party at Notre Dame apartments. 
Police said I 00 to 200 were at that party. 
A South Bend police officer, who requested anonymity, said police were not increasing pressure or doing anything unusual in their response to student parties. An arti· cle in yesterday's South Bend Tribune reported that "police spec­ulated that the new alcohol policy at the University of Notre Dame will result in more off-campus parties and more liqour law violation ar­rests." 
"There have been no directives from above about cracking down," on student parties, "and no addi-
Former professor sues ND for discrimination 

By ELIZABEm FLOR 
Senior StaffReporter 
Eileen Bender, a former assistant professor of English, filed suit against Notre Dame in United States District Court last Thursday. Be­t:ause of Its refusal to renew her teat:hing contract, she is charging the University with discrimination ·on the basis of sex, age and religion. 
Philip J. Faccenda, general coun­sel for Notre Dame, said the Univer­sity has 20 days In which to respond to the charge. The defense has not yet drafted a response, although Fac­cenda said, "we will deny any allega­tions." 
Bender's suit charges that her colleagues In the English depart· ment gave two successive recom­mendations proposing that her three-year contract be renewed. "I 
Eileen Bender 

had lived up to full expectations for a faculty professor. I did projects, every course I taught was new, I was growing in my field, meeting col­leagues around the country. "Bender said. 
Bender earned her doctorate in English at Notre Dame in 1977. She 
taught American studies, women's proposed that the case be recon­studies and English at Indiana Uni­sidered. According to Bender, her versity at South Bend, Yale Univer­case was the first in which evidence sity, and Notre Dame before of sex discrimination has been becoming a full-time professor at found. "Every mechanism that I have Notre Dame in 1980. employed this year has, upon com­In January of 1983, Bender ap­pletion, found that I had a legitimate 
plied for contract renewal, which complaint," Bender said. the University rejected in May, Bender filed a complaint with the 1983. Equal Employment Opportunity 
Last September, Bender initiated Commission in October 1983, an internal appeal based on the charging violation of Title VII of the agreement of an earlier discrimina­Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Age tion case signed in 1980, Frese vs. Discrimination in Employment Act Notre Dame. In that settlement, ofl967. Notre Dame had agreed to make an In May of 1984, the English de· effort to hire, promote and retain partment again recommended faculty women at the same rate as Bender for renewal, but the Univer­men. sity refused in june. 
In reviewing the appeal, two inde­In a prepared legal statement, pendent faculty reviewers con­Bender said, "I have brought suit cluded that her charges in the areas against the University of Notre of sexual discrimination and 
see SUIT, page 6
procedural error were correct, and tiona! patrols have been added (around student apartments)," the officer said. 
South Bend police made the seven arrests at a large party in the 800 block ofNotre Dame Avenue around 1 a.m. Saturday morning. Police esti· mated that 600 to 700 people were at the party. 
Paul). Potocki, l.l, of Dillon Hall, was arrested for public intoxication. Six others were charged with being a minor in possession ofan alcoholic beverage, a Cla.~s C misdemeanor. They were: Peter). Walters, 18, of Kenilworth Road; Mark 8. Carroll, 20, of N. St. Peter Street; Chris ]. Schaffer, 19, of N. Notre Dame Ave­nue; Edward C. Mack, 18, of Shoreham Court; Todd W. Ensminger, 20, of Burlington, Iowa; and Stephen). Nicgorski, 18, ofStan­field Street. Nil'gorski wa.~ also charged for false informing. 
Those arrested were handcuffed and taken to the police station for processing, and could face fines of up to S500. 
Awhite Chevette parked with two wheels on the curb was impounded by police. 
At the Saturday night party at Notre Dame Apartments, Judith A. Frame, 19, of Farley Hall, was ar­rested at 2:30a.m. and charged with being a minor in possession of an al­coholic beverage. Kerry O'Brien, 18, of Westchester, Ill., was arrested at 
E. Navarre Street at about I a.m. Sun­day morning and charged with being a minor in possession ofan alcoholic beverage. 
A resident of Campus View Apart· ments called In the county police Friday night to disperse a crowd esti­mated at 450 attending a party there. Hosts of the party, residents of six adjacent apartments located in one breezeway ofthe complex, said they quickly lost control of what wa.~ In­tended to be a private, 12-keg party for friends over 21. 
Burgeoning crowds filled with minors and "lots of underclassmen" quickly overflowed from the apart­ments into the adjoining courtyard and parking lot, according to John 
see PARTIES, page 5 

Mario Cuomo to defend religious/ political views at ND 
By mERESA GUARINO 
Assistant News Editor 
New York Governor Mario Cuomo will defend his views on abortion and the relationship be­tween religion and politics when he speak.' at Washington Hall next Thursday. 
Cuomo, who is a Democrat, was invited to speak at Notre Dame last june, befort· his keynote address to the Democratic National Conven· tlon in July. 
Cuomo's lecture is sponsored by the John A. O'Brien lecture series of the Department ofTheology. 
Cuomo's views on the separation between Church and state have led to several disagreements with New York Archbishop John]. O'Connor over the issue of legalized abortion. 
During a televised news confer­ence, O'Connor had said he couldn't understand "how a Catholic in good conscience can vote for a candidate who explicitly supports abortion." 
Cuomo, who is Catholic, has ex­plained that while he personally opposes abortion, he still is sworn to uphold the United States Constitu­tion, which guarentees freedom of choice in such a matter. Cuomo has since been speaking on whether his personal religious beliefs should af. feet his policies as governor. 
During his tenure in office, Cuomo, like his predecessor, Gov. Marlo Cuomo Hugh Carey, has inciuded abortion funding for the poor in the state budget. 

Cuomo recently announced his intention to begin a national discus­sion on the role of "formal religion" in public policies. 
In an interview with The New York Times, he said he believes "the Church has never been this ag· gressively involved" in such national policies before. 
Cuomo has said he believes the nation is built on people who don't impose their religious beliefs on others. "So I'm a Catholic governor," he said. "I'm going to make you all Catholic?" 
In response, Bishop James W. Malone, National Conference of Catholic Bishops president, released a statement saying that American bishops do not endorse or oppose political candidates. The statement noted it "would be regrettable ifrdi· gion as such were injected into a po­litical campaign through appeals to candidate's religious affiliations and commitments." The statement also said that the United States Catholic Conference does not agree that can· didates' personal views should not influence their policy views: "the implied dichotomy-between per­sonal morality and public policy-is simply not logically tenable in any adequate view ofboth." 
Cuomo's lecture will begin at 8 

p.m. in Wa.o;hington Hall's auditorium. 

The Observer 
In Brief 

Riot police with clubs, dogs and water cannon attacked 300 demonstrators singing the national anthem in San­tiago's main square yesterday, and one man was killed during an­other protest against military rule. By midafternoon, police reported 163 arrests in Santiago as opponents ofPresident Augusto Pinochet's 11-year-old military regime began two days of demonstrations aimed at paralyzing the country. The Rev. Pierre DuBois, a Roman Catholic priest, said a 25-year-old rehabilitated drug addict was shot in the back by police while manning a street barricade in the La Victoria working-class district. But police officials said the slain man was a "common criminal" and the shooting was not related to the protests. Andres Zaldivar, president of the worldwide Christian Democratic Movement, was among those arrested in the downtown demonstration and about 50 people, including labor opposition leader Rodolfo Segue!, were injured there. -AP 
Israel's two main politicalpartiesreached 
a "preliminary agreement" on a bipartisan government yesterday, and party leaders Shimon Peres and Yitzhak Shamir will meet to iron out the final details, Shamir's spokesman said. Y ossi Ahimeir said Prime Minister Shamir of the Likud bloc and Prime Minister­designate Peres ofthe Labor Party would meet today to "approve the results" of lower-level negotiations between the two parties. "If there was no certainty that such an agreement could be reached, they would not be meeting," Ahimeir said. -AP 
Soviet leader Konstantin Chernenko-
not seen in public for nearly two months and rumored to be ailing-is expected to publicly present awards to three Soviet cosmonauts today, according to Soviet journalist Viktor Louis. A story by Louis appeared yesterday in the Standard ofLondon saying Chernenko was expected to present medals to the cosmonauts. It would be Cher­nenko's first appea,rance in public since he met U.N. Secretary­General Javier Perez de Cuellar on July 13. Two days later, the official news agencyTass reported Chernenko had left the capital for his summer vacation. -AP 
Eliminating cancer and heart disease 
would prolong millions oflives but would burden society with the cost, a private research group said yesterday. The Population Refer­ence Bureau estimated, that it would cost the government an extra $1 5 billion if all Americans who died prematurely ofheart disease in 1978 had lived to their full life expectancy. The bureau, which spe­cializes in population issues, urged the government to focus re­search on slowing the aging process, to try to predict accurately the number ofelderly in the future, and to plan the programs that would care for them. The bureau's report, "Death and Taxes: the Public Policy Impact of Living Longer," drew on the work of seven re­searchers including economists, population experts and a biologist. ­
AP 
Of Interest 

Engineering seniorsare invited to a placementin­formation session tonight at 7 in the Library Auditorium. Various employer representatives will be present at the Engineering College Placement Night, which is being sponsored by Career and Place­ment Services. -The Observer 
Wednesday lunch fast sign-ups will be held today and tomorrow in North and South Dining Halls. The Wednesday lunch fast is sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition. -The 
Observer 
Weather 

Partly sunny and cool today with a 20 percent chance of showers, mainiy near Lake Mic­higan, and a high in the mid 60s. Tonight be­coming mostly clear and chilly, with the low in the low to mid 40s. Tomorrow, mostly sunny and continued cool with the high in the 

upper 60s. 


The Observer ( l'SPS ~'J\) 2-~000) is puhlisht:d Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except duting exam and va<.:ation periods. The Observer is puhlished h)· the students of tht' l 'niversity of Nt)tre Dame and Saini Mary's College. Sub~t·ription~ may ht· pun:haSt:d for S2'; pt:r year (51; pt:r sc:mt·stc:r) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame.lndiana 46~%. 
The Observer is a memht·r ofThe As­sociated Press. All rc:production riKht~ 
art:' reserved. 

Today's issue was produced by: 
Design Editor .................................Troy Illig Design Assistant .................. Claire Kneuer Typesetters..................................... Vic Sciulli 
Tracy Bringardner News Editor ................................ Mary Healy Copy Editor ...............................John Heasly Sports Copy Editor .............. Marc Ramirez Vtewpotnt Copy Editor ......... Paul Cimino VIewpoint Layout.John Mennell, Joseph 
Murphy ND Day Editor ............................. Earl Baker Ad Design .........................Suzanne LaCroix Photographer ............................ Carol Gales 
A high-return investment 

Q. Seniors, at a school that tries its best to take you for 
Kevin Williams 
all you've got, what's the best bargain on campus? 
A. Registering with Career and Placement Services Systems Manager for only S1 0. 
That's right. We all know how Notre Dame likes to Inside Wednesd "nickel and dime us to death." Twenty-five dollars to register your car, another 15 for this and I 0 for that. It's pretty annoying at best. be assured an interview. 
Well, for a change, your money is well spent. Think of Those not granted an it as an investment -one that could return 200 to 300 waiting list. Interviews that open up may be claimed by thousand percent. anyone on the waiting list on a first-come, first-served 
Career and Placement Services director Kitty Arnold basis. This makes it very important to check the prin­and her staff can get you noticed and often interviewd touts often. The first person on the waiting list to spot by the major corporations in your particular field -if an cancellation can claim that time slot. you're willing to put in a little effort yourself. This According to Arnold, this rewards those students in­seems like a reasonable request ofresponsible seniors. terested enough to check the lists. 
Briefly, here's the process: A very useful feature of the Career and Placement 
•
First, registered seniors Services' system is the pref­should get a copy of the erence ranking. Twice each Career and Placement semester, a senior may Services Weekly Bulletin specify that a certain com­each week. The bulletin lists pany is his Top Priority. This the companies scheduled to increases the student's interview at Notre Dame in chances of getting an inter­the near future and the areas 0 view with that particular in which they're looking for 0 company. people. The bulletin also 0 An important item to tells which type ofinterview know is that the computer the company will be con­will assign a student to an in­ducting -either invitational terview time other than or open. those he specified rather 

• 
Ifa senior desires an invi­than leave that student off tational interview, he must the schedule. It is up to the fill out an Interview Prefer­student to make it to the in­ence Form and supply the terview or trade his time slot Career and Placement Ser­with another student on the vice with two copies of his schedule. completed profile four ,, The Career and Place-weeks before the company is scheduled to arrive on ment Services takes a very dim view ofstudents missing campus. The office forwards one copy to the interview­assigned interviews. According to Arnold, when a stu­ing company and they, from the profiles, issue the inter­dent misses a scheduled interview it reflects badly on view invitations. The student should check the Notre Dame and the Career and Placement Office. Vio­computer printouts in the Career and Placement lations ofthe no-show policy could lead to loss ofinter­Services offices in the basement ofthe library to find out viewing privileges. the status ofhis preferences. Kitty Arnold should be commended for the way she 

•
Ifa senior would like an open interview with a par­has streamlined operations at the Career and Placement ticular company, he must supply the office with one Services. It's amazing that a department that deals with copy of his profile two weeks in advance. Again, the as many people as it does can function at all. student should check his status each week. fl When I finally land that $45,000 job with IBM or 


Due to the number of students desiring interviews DEC, I'll probably have Kitty Arnold and the Career and and the limited number of interview available, not Placement Services office to thank. everybody gets all the interviews they want. But con­trary to popular belief, the interviews are not assigned 
The views expressed in the Inside column
totally at random. Choices are made by computer based 
are the views ofthe author, and do not neces­
on the student's date of graduation, preference rank, and number ofprevious interviews. This eliminates the sarily reflect the views of the editorial board need to "camp out" the night before sign-ups in order to or staff. 



GARRET ELECTRONICS 
We repair all makes of stereos and VCRs We sell all makes of stylii (needles)· 
3318 Mishawaka Ave. 234-3739 
NAVY MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE 
Navy Medical Scholarships provide:
* Your full tuition, authorized fees and educational expenses.
*The cost of required books and supplies.
* 
Rental fees for necessary equipment such as microscopes.

* 
A monthly cash payment directly to you, to spend as you please! 


Participation in the Navy Health Professions Scholarship Program does not involve any military traming nor requ1res weanng of a Navy un1form. Your academic routine and lifestyle will remain )he same as· other medical students. 
Qualifications for this scholarship include: Be accepted for the next entering class or currently enrolled in an approved school of medicine or osteopathy. Be a U.S. citizen. Be physically qualified for a commission as a Naval Officer. 
For more information contact Kathy Scanlon TOLL FREE 1-800-382-9782 or local 269-6199 
Or write to: Medical Programs Room 646 575 N. Pennsylvania Indianapolis, IN 46204 
Navy Representative will be on campus October 10 & 11 at the Student Union. 

-----------------------~-----­
The Observer 

~-­
--------------------------------------.. 
Wednesday, September 5, 1984-page 3 
Saint Mary's rejects loft design proposals for Regina Hall rooms 

Scavenger hunt 

Notre Dame sophomore Kerry Gtll,fresbman Marla Gerace and sophomores Chuck Bidinger, Kevin Krull. 
By BUD LUEPKE 
StaffReporter 
Regina Hall contains some of the smallest rooms on the Saint Mary's campus, and because of this the De­partment of Housing and Student Life this summer considered a stan­dard loft design, which has since been rejected for safety reasons. 
jason Lindower, director of man­agement, said, "We asked a manufac­turer to design a safe loft for a room. They presented a loft with three legs on the floor and the fourth leg res­ting on something else. Like a desk." He said this plan was not accepted by the administration, structural in­tegrity being the main concern. 
In July a letter prohibiting lofts In Regina was sent out. However, some lofts were constructed despite the letter. Lindower said these lofts would be examined for feasibility today. "If the lofts are safe, they can stay." 
A Regina R.A. who has seen several of the lofts said one loft was less than two feet below the ceiling and stood close to the wire ofa hang­ing light. "It doesn't look safe to me," she said. 
Many Regina residents appear to have accepted the administration's ban on lofts. 
Student Body President Lee Ann Franks Is powerless to change the decision against lofts. "It's all up to the administration," she said. 
Director of Housing Pat Rls­smeyer was unavailable for com­ment. 

l
LaFortune renovations to get off the ground next spring ~ 
1 By MARK POlTER dent center," Neal said. "But there Is by the end ofthe month." we look for arrangements for be kept "under S10 definitely." Copy Editor a library available and I don't buy the The new television is just one of Stepan." The Campus Network rep­He noted that although Stepan is idea that what is going to be many ideas the restructured Office resentatives said Stepan is too large, "not acoustically the ideal place for a Although there were not many renovated Is going to be a study hall. of Student Activities Is working on, so Neal Is looking into the Idea of concert we have enough computer visible renovations to LaFortune Stu­With the renovation we hope to according to Neal. temporary walls inside the building readouts on It and we have had the dent Center this summer, the first push the students who study in here "We are planning a non-alcoholic for Stepan. Collegiate jazz Festival there, so we stage of construction may begin Into the Nazz or the Library," Neal Undergraduate Night at the Senior She said, "If we can get the walls feel we could set it up so that it next spring, according to Paul Mat­said. Bar for either Sept. 15 or 29," Neal then Campus Network would be sounds decent." The problem now is wly, recently appointed assistant The Office of Student Activities said. She plans to have every Satur­feasible." Matwiy added that there money, he said. director ofStudent Activities. hopes to get more use out of day night be Undergraduate Night at would be seating for between 500 Matwiy said, "Quite a bit did hap­Lafortune, according to Neal. She Senior Bar. "If the response is good and 2,000 people and admission Matwiy sees the Office of Student pen over the summer in planning for said, "We'd like to see the halls we are thinking of possibly going to would be charged for the Campus Affairs as having a "two-fold pur­the renovation. If everything goes reserve LaFortune for functions. We two nights a week being Undergrad­Network events. Neal hopes pose, to stimulate ideas and to make according to plan the renovation can close off part of It for their usc. uate Night," she added. Campus Network could be set up by facilities available to students. We could be completed by the fall of We wam to turn it into more ofa stu­If plans work out students may get the end of October. don't plan activities unless we are '86." He added, "It Is expected to dent center than a study hall." to see Campus Network, a satellite Matwiy will attempt to make asked to." cost between 3.'; and 4 million dol­An eight-foot projection screen hookup system, according to Neal. more use of Stepan. This could in­lars." television was recently purchased The network shows first-run movies, clude holding concerts there. He Neal said, "Our Intent isn't to Director ofStudent Activities jonl and Neal hopes to have it installed In concerts and other events. "It said, "We have done some research replace social life In the dorms, but Neal said, "We have a concern about the Nazz Studio within a couple of (consists of) a 24-foot television and we found that the big tours are to create a campus social life, we the lack of social space on campus, weeks. Neal said, "The Studio screen with a state-of-the-art sound getting too expensive, so a lot of want to encourage people to look but hopefully that will change with need-; renovation, such as ventila­system," said Matwiy. groups are interested In small outside the halls for social life." She the renovation of LaFortune. tion and seating but we are in the Campus Network will probably venues." He predicted that if 3,000 believes, "People are willing to give "In the past LaFortune tended to process of getting the money be set up in Stepan Center, said Neal. tickets could be sold the idea would us a try because the (alcohol) policy be more of a study hall than a stu-needed and hope to have It installed "It is now in a holding pattern while be feasible and ticket prices could Isn't going to change." 


Can you plccure yourself swinging down a cliff? Or flying in • helicopter? 0r croasing a river using only a rope and you own two hanC:s? 
We have ~one all thts in Notre Dame ROTC and invite you to do it with us . 
Arm} ROTC ~~holar­ships J'SY full tui ti·:m while ·rcu Lt!arn adven­ture s<ills, management and leadccl'hip. 
The ml~lls y1u learn in Army ROTC WiJ.l help you realize your full potenti~l as d leader. 
Afu~r y,.,u're commi.s­sion~d as an Army Offi­cer you'll have an ~nriching oppcrtunity to get the kind of expecience you'll need for a military career and expecienct that private em~loyers value. 
For more Jnf.·Jrmation conta:t yo1..1r r·r..>fessor of Mili ta_ry Science. 
ARMY ROTC. 
BEALLYOU CAN BE. 
Call:  ITC  ~ "'·  i:ikinnt!r  
or  CPT  Ar.n~  Rieman  
2}9-6264  


IACC IS PROUD TO ANNOUNCE 
WILLIE NELS~fA 19 ;7:30 SfPTEAif FNOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY ARENA 
A-~·~REsERVED 
•i350 & 12 TICKETS ON SALE ND/ACC 

Box Office 
(GateiO) ...0 Student Ualoa Ticket Office 
The Observer

r 
China studies program kicks off successfully 
By MICHAELJ. CHMIEL 
StaffReporter 
This summer ten Notre Dame stu­dents got a rare look at a little­known culture in the first session of Notre Dame's foreign studies pro­gram in the People's Republic of China_ 
Dr. Isabel Charles, assistant provost and director of the foreign study program, believes that the China program is an extremely valuable experience. 
"The opportunity to spend time in 
a foreign country -not just tourist 
time but time in which you are 
studying in that country -is a chance 
of a lifetime," said Charles. "At this 
point, many more Notre Dame stu­
dents ought to take advantage of it 
than do." 
The China program lasts approxi­
mately eight weeks, from early June 
to Aug. I. Students can earn six 
hours of credit in Chinese to fulfill 
their language requirement at Notre 
Dame. Classes and accomodations 
are provided at the Tianjin Foreign 
Languages Institute in Tianjin, 
People's Republic ofChina. 
In its initial summer the students made the trip with program coord­inator Professor Peter Moody of the government department. 
Among the adventurers was junior Paul Aiello, an economics and government major from Rockville Centre, N.Y. 
"Probably the neatest thing was our travelling and our climbing of Taishan -one ofthe four sacred Bud­hist mountains," said Aiello. "Where we went to school there were no foreigners in a city of 7 million people. Perhaps the most interesting thing was just walking down the street and being a celebrity." 

Gus Kelly, a fourth year English and metalurgical engineering major also enjoyed the journey through­out China. 
The best part of the program was the opportunity to go visiting around Tianjin in the afternoons," commented Kelly. "We got quite an opportunity to talk with people and ask questions -something we'd never be able to do on our own." 
"I would_ highly recommend the program to people in Business or Arts and Letters," said Kelly. "It's a great opportunity to expand your horizons and get a taste of another culture." 
The program "should broaden your horizon and help you to under­stand and appreciate your own country more as well as appreciate a country which, in a lot of ways, is very different," said Moody. 
According to Charles, Notre Dame facilitates a smooth transition for students by offering a one­semester course in Chinese. This year Zheng Yun-Shen, a visiting scholar from China will be teaching the two Chinese courses on campus. 
Admission to the program is available to all students. 
Wednesday, September 5, 1984 -page 4 

APPboto 

estimated million people will take part in the obser­vance of35 years ofCommunist rule, and authorities are removing impediments to smooth the flow of humanity. 

Hall Presidents Council grants voting rights to 0-C representative 
By CAROL CAMP 
Senior StaffReporter 
The Hall Presidents Council last night passed a motion granting full voting privileges to the off-campus postion by a 22-2 margin. The only restriction being the off-campus rep­resentative is ineligible to serve as chairman of the HPC. 
Off-campus representative Doug Honeywell was pleased with the decision. He said, "I lived in a dorm for two years, and I think that I have 
Keep School From Getting Boring. 
Put some excitement in your life. Visit Skyports Unlimited, Inc and learn to Oy in just one hour. Be­come a Paraplane Pilot, exper­ience the safety of a parachute and the freedome of flight of an Ultra­light. 
20 minute• from campua SKYSPORTS UNLIMITED, Inc. Route I Tyler Road Walkerton, IN 
219-586-2663 
TYPING 
•Term 
Papers *Resumes *Letters *Manuscripts 

•Word 
Processing 


CaD Chris At: 
234-8997 

an objective view that others might In other business HPC members not have. I think I should vote on established an Information Commit­everything, but I can understand 
tee which would act as a record about not being eligible to be HPC 
keeping body for hall presidents to chairman." record successful dorm events HPC chairman Chris Tayback which in turn would be passed on to cited the HPC's expanding role as their successors. the reason that increased off-campus involvement is needed. He noted, 
rtVifiYIJNI'Sl/JIJZliN~

"There are lots of things that are talked about here that involve other people besides those on campus." 
~e Back -~
8 

\\)e\co the de,~ 
Athlete's 
FOOT 
10" Discount for 
ND/SMC
1635 Edison (across from King's Cellar) 
277-7284 
Hey Mate! 
JDbe~~-needsyou.The news department is accepting applications for 
eCopy Editor 

For mora Information 
contact Dan, Sarah or Anna 
at 239·5313. Applications 
aredue Thursday at 5 p.m. 
BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
GMAT 

• 
TEST-N-TAPE'" LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TEST 

• 
HOMESTUDY PACKET CLASSES STARTING 


September9 I 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 272-4135 

--~---­


The Observer 


The Observer/Carol Gales 
Comic relief 

Members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's theatre department go around at Saint Mary's Activities Night, which was held last night in the Angela Athletic Facility. The theatre students were giving away lottery tickets for a chance for free tickets to "The Hothouse" and "The Dramatist," two plays to be put on by the 
theatre department this semester. 

Wednesday, September 5, 1984-page 5 
Presidential candidates debate role of religion in campaign speeches 
AssocJated Press 
The campaign debate over the re­lationship between government and religion accelerated yesterday as President Reagan accused critics of advocating "freedom against reli­gion" and Walter Mondale looked ahead to a detailed presentation of his views. 
In a speech to the American Le­gion in Salt Lake City, the president said that "what some would do is to twist the concept offreedom of reli­gion to mean freedom against reli­gion." 
Reagan did not identify the targets of his remarks, but White House spokesman Larry Speakes said the president wanted to "set the record straight" in response to what the aide called "distortions" by Mondale and his running mate, Geraldine Fer­raro. 
Both Democrats have been sharply critical of Reagan's recent statement that "religion and politics are necessarily related." 
Mondale said in a radio address Sunday that the Republicans "raised doubts about whether they respect 
the wall our founders placed be­
tween government and religion." 
Mondale and Ms. Ferraro were campaigning separately in Reagan's home state of California. Mondale spent yesterday morning in his suite in Long Beach working on speeches he will deliver today and tomorrow. 
The Democratic nominee will be in Salt Lake City today to discuss arms control with the American Le­gion. Tomorrow he will speak to Jewish and Baptist meetings in Washington, D.C., and is expected to spell out in greater detail his views on the relationship between govern­ment and religion. 
Meanwhile, Vice President George Bush told a student forum at Texas A&M university yesterday that Mondale's opposition to the MX missile and the B-I bomber amounts to "giving up the store" in advance of arms negotiations with the Soviet Union. 
In his American Legion speech, Reagan referred to a "new patrio­tism" he said he was finding throughout the nation. He said that emotion might have begun with the return of American prisoners from Vietnam, the triumph of an under-



students have always needed, this is it: an affordable, busi­ness-oriented calculator. The Texas Instruments BA-35, the Student Business Analyst. · 
Its built-in business formulas let you perform complicated finance, accounting and statistical functions -the ones that usually require a lot of time and balloon payments. Think business. With 
The BA-35 means you the BA-3 5 Student .lis spend less time calculating, Business Analyst. -....:t" and more time learning. One keystroke takes the place 
TEXAS

of many. Th~ calculator is just part INSTRUMENTS Creating useful products 
of the package. You also get a book that follows most and services for you. business courses: the Business Analyst Guidebook. Business professors helped us write it, 
and a stack of reference books, to help you get the most out like present and future value of calculator and classroom. 
C 1983 Tcxaa Instruments 
dog U.S. hockey team over the Soviets in the I980 winter Olympic games or the return of U.S. hostages from Iran. 
"Well, wherever the new patrio­tism came from, there can be no gainsaying its arrival," the president added. 
Reagan paid tribute to servicemen killed in conflicts and said, "We also fervently hope that such sacrifice will never again have to be asked for and that the day is not far off when there will be no new battlefields to visit and no old soldiers' stories to hear." 
On religion the president said, "I can't think ofanyone who favors the government establishing a religion in this country. I know I don't." 
Reagan said it was essential to "protect the rights of all our citizens to their beliefs, including those who choose no religion." 
Parties 
continued from page I 
Heasly, one of the party's hosts. 
The hosts decided to "shut down by 1 l 1 S because too many cars were causing traffic problems, and It was getting out of hand, sizewise," Heasly said. 
Hosts then proceeded to turn off the music, untap the kegs, and usher people out, but "people still hung around." According to Heasly, "the landlord was running around pretty steamed, but he cooled off after St. joseph's County police arrived." Police broke up the crowd by I 130, and then left at the request of the landlord, Heasly said. 
Witnesses reported that the offi­cers were sporadically checking stu­dents' identification, but county police reported no arrests or cita­tions at Campus View. 
The South Bend police officer also said that security for Notre Dame home football games would "be the same as it has been for the last two or three years," consisting of four or five additional uniformc:d officers patrolling the Five Points area for liquor-law violations on game days, and possible undercover operations aimed at preventing the assault and burglary ofstudents and fans. 
We're serving up great 
opportunities .. .for hlgh­
splrlted,energetlc people 
with a real enthusiasm to 
serve the publici 
We have part-time evening 
kitchen positions open and 
will be Interviewing: 
Mon. through Fri. from 2-4 P.M.
..........,...
52554 u.s. '311l 
8TEAK 
E.O~~/F 




r 
Shuttle Discovery's maiden voyage successfully launches all satellites 
The Observer Wednesday, September 5, 1984 -page 6 
AUTHORS! 
Juniper Press, a student-run publishing company, is looking for a manuscript of 70-100 pages to publish this fall. We need it immediately. 
Submit your work to 
JUNIPER PRESS 3390'SHAG 
A CHALLENGE. 
No one ever said delivering The Observer would be easy. It's a tough job, and we need a talented person to take on the challenge. If you would like to deliver The Observer on Monday, Wednesday and Friday_ call Jeff at 239-7471_ 

she had thoroughly pursued all can return to her job. "I owe a great avenues of help within the Univer­deal to the University and that's one sity and had no recourse but to seek ofthe reasons why this is so painful," legal action. she said. "I would want very much to 
Bender is suing for reinstatement be a part of it always. It is really the to the faculty, damages, attorney shared value system that I also share, fees and court costs. whether or not I am Catholic, and it 
Bender's suit accuses the Univer­is the way I have been treated that sity of Notre Dame of not renewing goes against the whole University female faculty contracts at the same value system. . . Hesburgh rate as men. really does stand for all principles of 
The suit states that Bender, 48, equality, for women and minorities, had more stringent reviews than often very courageously defending younger or male faculty with similar them." 
THIS OLDE HOUSE PIZZERIA 8r PUB 
Welco•e.Back 
Today we will deliver a Medium 16" pizza with 1 topping for 
Go in Style
Sfi95 

Each additional item is 
NEW HOURS 

Go
$1.00 
4-12 p.m. Mon-Sat 4-10 p_m. Sun 
277-4519 

CALL BEFORE 11:30 p.m. FOR DEUVERY 
EXPIRES 9 I 5/84 

Airport 

Michiana Regional Airport 
234-3712
~~usc 
Downtown

*-~ ll UNDERGRADUATE 
71 0 No. Niles Ave. 
232-5871
r1 :=W SCHOOLS 
or 

(800) 654-3131 
t1 .e-·. COMMITTEE 
starting at 

Become a representative of the Admissions Office to your High School over October or Christmas break_ 
For applications and further informa­tion, stop by the Admissions Office, 
Weekends with Room 113 Administration Building. 
Unlimited Mileage





Hertz rents Lincolns and other fine cars. 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -With a flick ofthe wrist on their giant robot arm, Discovery's astronauts brushed the irritating ice off the side of their space shuttle yesterday and packed up to come home, their shakedown flight a huge success. 
"It worked like a charm," said commander Henry Hartsfield after he gingerly guided the end of the ship's 50-foot crane over the ice that had blocked two waste water vents just behind the cabin on Discovery~s port side. 
Television pictures, taken by a camera attached to the arm, showed that only a 5-inch, carrot-shaped icicle remained. Six hours later, astronaut Judy Resnik used the 

camera again and reported: 
"We have some good news for you; we took another look at the nozzle and there is no ice." 
NASA had worried that the un­welcome hanger-on, estimated to weigh up to 30 pounds, might break loose and damage the ship's tail during Discovery's violent plunge through the atmosphere today. Such an occurrence would not have en­dangered the astronauts, but might have required costly and time-consuming repairs before the next flight. 
The third ship in NASA's shuttle fleet is to end its inaugural voyage with a desert landing at Edwards Air Force Base in California today at 
6:38 a.m. PDT. 
It will return with an empty cargo bay, evidence of its success in launching a record three communi­cations satellites on the six-day flight. NASA, which earned $37 mil­lion for the triple-header, said yes­terday that all three satellites have reached the high orbit necessary for operation. 
The two other prime objectives of the mission -testing a 102-foot solar sail for stability and manufacturing test quantities of a pure drug -also were successful and so was a stu­dent's crystal growth experiment. 
Industry engineer Charles Walker had some problems with the equip­ment he used to produce the publicly unidentified hormone, but he said he overcame most of them. The student experiment was cut short by blown fuses, but it had run long enough to get results. 
Suit 
continuedfrom page 1 
Dame today because in my judge­ment the administration of the Uni­versity has not kept faith with me, my colleagues, nor with our shared ideas of academic freedom and justice." Bender believes the failure to renew her contract is a mistake, and her aim is to rectify this error. She still hopes that this will be settled outside ofcourt, but says that or not as good a teaching record as her own. Procedural errors were also committed in her review that were absent in the reviews of younger or male colleagues, Bender alleges. 

Finally, Bender charges that be­cause she is Jewish she was sub­jected to further discrimination. The suit states that Notre Dame is even considering a recommendation prefering Catholic faculty over non­Catholics in some cases. 
Bender said that she is not inter­ested in publicity, but in correcting any misunderstandings so that she 


The Gipper wants ND 
underway and the democrats have kicked it off with the usual anti-Reagan rhetoric. They Invoke the usual line of attack; a string offal­lacies about Ronald Reagan with absolutely no 
Bill Healy 
guest column 

mention of Walter Mondale or the ultra­liberal policies he espouses. 
But let's take a more realistic view of Reagan's policies, and leave Mondale to dig his own grave. 
Ronald Reagan has always believed that it is the government that should tighten it's belt rather than the American people. It is for this reason that Reagan broke with the traditional democratic policy of "tax and spend" by reducing personal income taxes and cutting out wasteful governmental programs. The democrats charge that the tax cut favored the rich while it hurt the middle-class and poor; this Is simply not the case. Statistics prove just the opposite, and when indexing goes into ef­fect no one will benefit more than the lower class and the poor. Concerning social pro­grams, the democrats would have you believe that Reagan has drastically cut each and every program. In fact, Reagan has cut the amount of the increase to each program (which is only logical when one considers the drastic reduc­tion in the inflation rate). Some use food stamps as an example of where Reagan has "m:u.lt• across the board slashes". The truth of the matter is that under the Reagan admin­sitration more people than ever are being aided by that program. 
In 1980 a poll was taken which asked what the individual felt was the major problem facing the United States. Overwhelmingly the people exclaimed INFlXflON! Ronald Reagan has always believed that inflation was the cruelest tax of them all. In 1980 the infla­tion rate was 13.'5 percent, now it hovers around 4 percent. In addition, Reagan fought to reduce the burden ofunemployment; pres­enlly the rate of unemployment is a point lower than when Carter-Mondale left office and it is still dropping. In 1980 interest rate~ were 21.5 percent and now they have been reduced to the low teens. The stock market in the last two years has broken record after sales record. The prediction by democrats that the "bottom would fall out" during this past sum­mer has proved to be categorically wrong. In contrast, economic inc.icators are painting a rosier picture for the fut tre than even Reagan predicted. 
Turning to Reagan's foreign policy, we see that he does not have the "Itchy finger" which the democrats predicted in 1980. In fact he has had a more stable policy which rests on negotiating out ofstrength. We have regained respect around the world which we lost during the Iranian Hostage crisis and not one inch of soil has been lost to communism un­der his administration. Some democrats claim that Ronald Reagan has not met with the So­viet leadership because of his staunch anti­communist views. What they fail to take into account Is that since Ronald Reagan took of­fice there have been three different (and quite 
ill) Soviet leaders. Reagan has opened the door many times, hopefully it will be soon that the Russians step through. 
In regard to those who attack Reagan's policy In Grenada as similar to Afghanistan, they are sorely mistaken. The Grenadan res­cue mission was the only appropriate ~;esponse to the Cuban interference and the invitations by six Caribbean nations. We acted justly and when we were finished we left; hardly the same can be said about Afghanistan. Gone are the days when foreign policy meant stopping athletes who have trained all their life from participating in the Olympics. Gone are the days when the burden of foreign policy was placed solely on the grain farmers, with no international effect. Gone are the days of a weak NATO alliance. We have a strong, consistent foreign policy with Reagan as our leader. 
The choice is clear. Ronald Reagan has proved that he is an excellent leader. We have economic recovery and growth. We have a firm, coherent foreign policy. We have a return to traditional values; family, faith and pride. We have a strong leader who is first to admit that we have accomplished much, but we have much more to do. As he says, "We cannot, must not, and will not turn back. We will finish our job." 
Bill Healy is chairman of Notre Dame for Reagan-Bush and is a junior in the College of Arts & Letters at Notre Dame. 
-
w_e_dn-esd~ay~,S~ep-tem-be_r5~,1~98~4...;p;.;.:ag~e7 
How you play the game 
"For when the Great Scorer comes 
To write againstyour name 

He marks-not thatyou won or lost 
Buthowyou played the game." 
From AlumnusFootball 
by Grantland Rice 

The following is a fictional conversation with Grantland Rice, a famous sportswriter duriJ1g the 1920's. 
G1 antland, both your special tie with Notre Dame and your words in "Alumnus Football" 
Vernon Marchal afterwords 

are well known. This season is being widely regarded as a pivotal one and contrary to the view expressed in "Alumnus Football," the difference between winning and losing will probably determine whether Head Coach Gerry Faust stays on at Notre Dame. Given that this pressure to win seems to be the rule rather than the exception in athletics, how would you respond to the charge that your philosophy, lacks any real practical applica­tion to the world ofsport. 
You think thisphilosophy impractical? 
Well, I'm sure you've heard the saying "If winning didn't matter, they wouldn't keep score." 
Yes, I've heard that. However, as perilous as it may be to fly in theface ofsuch a saga­cious remark, I would like to respond by as­king how the current philosophy is any less impractical? 
What do you mean? 

Well, I gather from your reference to Faust and your other remarks that you think the philosophical nature of sport now is such that everybody is required to win. Let us, then, examine thisphilosophy with respect to a specific sport. You seem particularly inter­ested In college football, so we'll use that as an example. Now, as I understand it, in col­lege football the goal is to win what is known as the "mythical" national champi­onship. Is that correct? 
Yes 

And it is also correct that only one team can win this championship? 
Yes, that's right. 

Well, if the goal of all college football teams is to win the national championship, and ifit Ispossiblefor only one team to win, then all the teams that do not win must, in effect, be losers. Given all ofthis, I fail to see the practical application of a philosophy that demands everyone win in a sport where 99percent ofthe teams lose. 
I guess not every team has to win, only those teams that are supposed to. 
Oh, I see. And which teams are supposed to win? 
Well, Notre Dame, for one. 

Ah, Notre Dame. Wbo is it that says that Notre Dame is supposed to win? 
The pollsters, mostly. Notre Dame ha..~ been rated in the top ten the last three years at the beginning ofthe season. 
I see. And bow many pollsters actually play college football? 
All right, I see what you're getting at. But you have to admit that Notre Dame has had a lot oftalent the past three years and, in spite of this, the team has shown a surprising lack of ability, discipline, character... 
A lack ofcharacter, you say? 
Surely you're aware that Notre Dame has been beaten by Air Force twice, tied by Oregon, and humiliated on national T.V. by Miami? 
Yes, that's interesting, -a lack ofcharacter. May I, for a moment, ask you some ques­tions? 
Certainly. 
I was wondering if, in your career here at Notre Dame, you have ever taken a test that you have not done particularly well on? 
Yes, a few. 
And these tests, were they an indication of a lack of character on your part? Did you humiliate yourself through you~ perfor­mance on these tests? 
No, I put a lot of effort into preparing for some of them. 
Butyou still did poorly. 
Yes, but that's not the point. 
Its not? Then what is the point? 
The point is that I tried. 
Ah, you tried. So what you are saying is that it is not really fair for me to make a judgement aboutyour character on the basis ofyour performance. Rather, what I should base this judgement on isyour effort. 
Yes, that's right. 
But how do I know that you really tried? All I have is your word. 
I guess you really can't know for sure. 
But, as we said before, it is clearly notfair for me to assume that you did not try simply becauseyou didpoorly. 
Right. 
Now, getting back to Notre Dame's lack of character in its two losses to AirForce... 
Yes, I think I know what you are going to say... 
You do? 
Yes. That it was unfair of me to judge the character ofthe football team simply because they performed poorly. 
And why was it unfair? 
Because It Is one's effort that is most impor­tant in any undertaking, and nobody can truly judge anyone's effort except his own. 
So, perhaps my philosophy is not as im­practical as it once bad seemed. 
No, maybe it really isn't. 
Now, ifI may presume to ask one more question, who was it that said "If winning didn't matter ... 
You know, I don't think anyone remembers. 
Hmm. I wonder why ... 
P.O.BoxQ 
Stick to studying 
Dear Editor: 

After reading Mr. Skorcz's response to Marc Ramirez's enlightening "Freshmen's Compre­hensive Guide to the Campus," we also felt compelled to respond immediately. We too are freshman and were not at all amused by the infantile nature of Mr. Skorcz's reaction. 
Mr. Skorcz showed very poor taste in res­ponding in such an asinine way. Mr. Skorcz states that he is neither a simpleton nor a child, hi:> letter clearly contradicts his words. 
l'or even a simpleton can comprehend the dif. ference between an insult and a true piece of satirical art. 
What is really disturbing in this case is that Marc Ramirez should be commended and not condemned for showing his comical abilities. Nor sh~uld a whole paper be judged solely on one article, whether the article be good or bad. Perhaps Mr. Skorcz should stick to his studies and quit writing superfluous letters to the editor. 
PaulA. Kane Mike Clark 
R. Michael Sullivan Keenan Hal/ 

The Observer  Editorial Board  Department Managers  - 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .  . ...... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller ................ Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor....... . Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager ....... Anne Culligan  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies ofthe administration of either institution. The news is reported as  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Sports Editor. ........... Michael Sullivan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expresSIOn of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Viewpoint Editor . . . . . .. Dave Grote Features Editor .............. Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
IS encouraged.  Photo Editor. . . . .  . ..... Pete Laches  

Sports Briefs 
Jim Dolan, Ken Barlow, and Tim Kempton were named tri-captains for the 1984-85 basketball season at a team meeting late last week. The three juniors are expected to compose Notre Dame's starting front line this year. -The Observer 
The ND Men's volleyball club will hold a 
mandatory meeting for all new and returning players tomorrow, Sept. 6, at 7 p.m. in LaFortune Little Theatre. Everyone interested is welcome. -The Observer 
Gerry Faust will be the guest speaker at an informal meeting today at 6:30p.m. in the ACC Auditorium for any freshman interested in becoming a Student Manager. Enter through Gate 2. ­The Observer 
The ND-SMC gymnastics club will have its 
first formal meeting today at Angela Athletic Facility at 4:15 p.m. All interested ND-SMC students are invited to attend. For more informa­tion, call Matt Sennett at 3234.-The Observer 
The ND-SMC sailing club will have a meeting today at 6 p.m. at the boathouse for everyone, especially new mem­bers. This is your chance to get the complete scoop bn the club. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's basketball teamwill hold 
an organizational meeting today at 7 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
I 

Wednesday, September 5, 1984 -page 8 
The men's track team will hold an organizational meeting today at 4:30 p.m., in the ACC Football Auditorium. Stu­dents interested in either indoor or outdoor track should attend. ­The Observer 
The swimtning team will hold an organizational meeting today for anyone interested in trying out for either the men's or women's squads in Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. The women will meet at 4:30p.m., and the men will follow at 5:15 p.m. All returning swimmers are also asked to attend. -The Observer 
Aerobic classesfor both men and women begin today and tomorrow. Classes run from 4-4:50 p.m. and 5:10-6 p.m. on Mon­days and Wednesdays. There also will be a class from 4-4:50 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Classes will be held in Gym 4 of the ACC (above Gate 3 ). Advanced registration is necessary. The cost for the classes is as follows: students -$4 (half semester) or $6 (full semes­ter), faculty and staff-$13 (half semester) or $25 (full semester). Register at the NVA office. -The Observer 
The first setofdeadlineshas been announced by NVA. Today is the deadline for registration for the following sports: men's and women's interhall football, undergrad and grad-faculty singles tennis for men and women, undergrad and grad-faculty mixed doubles tennis, co-ree softball, and the 16-inch softball slow pitch tourney. September 12 is the deadline for entries for grad touch football, men's soccer, co-ree water polo, and the golf tour­ney.-The Observer 
Victory 
continuedfrom page 12 

"The girls learned that they have to keep digging deeper and deeper if they want to win," he said. 
The Irish would fall behind again in the second game. Down 9-2, the team exploded, rallied, and eventu­ally evened the score at thirteen. They took the next two points, win­ning 15-13. 
The Irish erupted in game three, humiliating the Metros 15-2. It was domination. Pure and simple. Vintage volleyball. 
The fourth game turned out to be a sea-sawing nailbiter. The Irish led 5-1, trailed 7-9, and then reclaimed the lead. Behind the serving of JiJ.l Suglich, the Irish began to click. Thanks to impressive play by Morin and Josie Maternowski, the Irish went back on top, 12-9. But the Metros would claw their way back to a 12-12 deadlock. Minutes later, however, with Karen Sapp serving, the Irish would triumph 15-12. 
The match left coach Lambert smiling. Said the victorious mentor: "It's our first win ofthe season, we're 1-1, and we're having fun." 
The Ohserr>er Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center. accepts classified advertising from Y a.m. until-! p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsert•er Saint Mary's office. locatt·d on the third floor of Haggar College Center, aceepts classifieds from 12:.~0 p.m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifkds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid. either in person or hy mail. Charge is I 0 eents per five charac­
Classifieds 
ters er day. 
BAHAMAS TRIP DURING OCT. BREAK GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559-HELP! MY UTILE BROTHER IS COM­Help! My parents want to relive their youth Lettuce give you aome advice: The TO NASSAU ... ALL STUDENTS $50,553/yr. Now hiring. Your area. Call ING ALL THE WAY FROM --and they need South Carolina tickets to walls must go. WELCOME... MUST ACT NOW • 805-687-6000 Ext. R-9834. SACRAMENTO TO SEE THE NO -do so. Please help them through their col­
NOTICES 

DEADUNE FRI. SEPT. 14 ... CALL COLORADO GAME, BUT I'LL NEED A lective midlife crisis. Call Kristin atx3838. YES, THE DAY HAS ARRIVED-THE LAURIE 4039, JIM 1887 OR 1913, WANTED: GERMAN TYPIST to TICKET. CALL DENISE AT 1330. TRIPLETS HAVE COME OF AGE! MARK 1883 yyyyy NEED ST. MARY'S STi transpose large German index from cards SUPER DESPERATE!!!! WE NEED ONE BARB,JO, AND MARIANNE-GET DENT TRIP REP. IF INTERESTED, to computer. Phone 288-92n. Could live V31 NEED GA TIXS FOR PURDUE & ALL PURDUE TICKET REALLY BAD. IF YOU PSYCHED FOR TONIGHT-LOVE YOU 
Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? CALL LAURIE 4039. in. HOME GAMES.272-6306 CAN HELP US PLEASE CALL A SKID· BE.ANER Leadership Training! Challenge' Ad­DER AT 2448. WE WOULD LIKE TO SAY venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. HELP WANTED: FULL OR PART-TIME NEED TICKETS TO ANY NO HOME THAT MONEY IS NO OBJECT BUT I WISH I WAS ROMEWARD BOUND Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the COOK. APPLY MACRI'S DELl, UNIVER­GAME CALL JOHN 3335. NONE OF US OWN A BANK. PLEASE ROTC Building. (239-6264) PROGRESSIVE SITY CENTER, MISHAWAKA. 2n-7273. HELP, THAT IS ONE PURDUWE 
MUStC..PROGRESSIVE NEED 5 TIX FOR AIRFORCE $$$ call TICKET CALL 2448, 2453 OR 2452. 
Attention Observer reporters!

Are you in need of FINANCIAL AID? MUSIC..PROGRESSIVE MUSIC.. First SMC5264 HELP! 
We need the phone numbers of several Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­meeting: TONIGHT 8:00, 202 ARCHI· WANTED: PERSON(S) TO SHARE of you who have escaped off-campus orventure! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob lECTURE BLDG. Regard!-of wh&­RIDE AND EXPENSES FROM VIRGINITY and/or MONEY for three Air for other reasons have no phone listed.
Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ther or not you signed up on Activities KALAMAZOO. Ml TO SOUTH BEND, NO GRAD NEEDS TO BUY OR TRADE Force tickets. call2n-4B71 Would the following please call the DayROTC Building. (239-6264) Night, come on by snd hesr whst -IND DAILY. CALL DIANE 239-7560. FOR 4 PURDUE TIX FOR REUNION Editor: Cindy Boyle. Gretchen Pichler,
··························· ............................ hsve to 11y. PROGRESSIVE WITH ROOMMATES. CALL RON AT 
Richard Pilger, Tom Powers, Pam Rich·BRIDGE BRIDGE BRIDGE MUSIC..PROGRESSIVE NEEDED: TWO G.A. TICKETS FOR 3301 I NEED JUST ONE TICKET FOR MIAMI; ardson, Jean Seinwachs, KathyWho says there's nothing to do? Call MUSIC..PROGRESSIVE MUSIC. MIAMI GAME: CALL 283-3884 AND 2-4 TICKETS FOR THE AIR FORCE Ceperich, Kathy Conley, Leslie Hanna,
Town & Country Bridge Center at 255-...................................... I am in dire need of a Notre Dame vs. 
GAME. PLEASE CALL SCOTI AT 272-Jim Jansen, Alex Paltzer. 
6613 for more information. need 1 or 2 riders to columbus, ohio area. CHANCE OF A LIFETIME: Need 1 or 2 Purdue ticket. Please contact Joseph Ir­6278. $$$$$. Thank you. 
leave fri morn. return sun or mon, call jen­roomates to share awesome house 1.5mi win at 336 Zahm Hall, 283-1085. IRISH GARDENSIRISH GARDEN· nifer 239-7278 from campus. Enjoy luxury ]$160/mo. Call ............................. 
NEED 4 STUD OR GA S.C. TICKETS! 
SIRISH GARDENS APPLICATIONS 232-2839 TWO S.C. GA'S & 1 STUD. TIX FOR CALL ROB 4605 OR MICH 1283 SO. CAL. CLUB--MEETING THURSDAY ARE NOW AVAILABLE IN THE STU­FOUND: WORDMAN, DOC, SAL, & SALE BEST OFFER. RICK 4364 8:30pm UTILE THEATER,DENT GOVERNMENT OFFICES OF JOANNE, BUT WHERE'S EDDIE? Ride wsnted to PURDUE! Any and all I need 3 Purdue tickets. If you can sell me LAFORTUNE BE THERE! 
LAFORTUNE FOR EMPLOYMENT AT ....................... weekends. Call Tina at 2n-0151 or Shir­NEED 2 PURDUE TIX SUZANNE 284­
ANY, please give mea call at 1346 . 
IRISH GARDENSARDENS 84-85. OUT OF THE SHADOWS HE WALKS ley at 239-5303. 4697$$$$$ DEADLINE IS WEDS. SEPT 5. FINAN­LIKE A DREAM ... 
............................... 
Will BE.A T any offer for 4 Miami tix. CallWANTED; FULL-TIME BABYSITIER AT
CIAL AID FORMS A MUST. WANTED-Mature male willing to date
1473 and see how much money you can
MY HOME FOR SIX MO. BABY AND need many PURDUE TIX. will pay many female. Must be able to over come MRS
make.

OCC. 4 YR. OLD. OWN TRANSPORTA­$$$.Call DAN 1849. ..................................... ready to have a good time. Applicants Wordprocessing and typing. 272-8827 paranoia, treat her like a lady, and be 
TION TO TOWN AND COUNTRY AREA. 
PURDUE GAs FOR SALE.232-1466 
LOST/FOUND 

SALARIED. REFERENCES. AFTER
GRADUATE STUDENTS! The NEW NEED GA OR STUDENT TICKETS FOR need not have prior experience but m••st YORK TIMES, the World's 1 newspaper: 6PM CALL; 289-9193. MIAMI FOOTBALL GAME CALL 283-be willing to learn of this rarely seen social is available for delivery to your depart­3294 custom. Please call2978. ment mailbox or any other convenient LOST: BLUE SUIT BAG WITH BROWN SELLING JUNIOR STUDENT TICKET place on campus for only 35 cents on TRIM, SENT ON PHI LA. CLUB TRUCK. NEED TIX TO PURDUE GAME. CALL PACKAGE, best offer 1301 weekdays. The TIMES guarantees to OWEN MURRAY/BOB GUILDAY OR FOR SALE TERRY AT 1705 -I'LL MAKE IT WORTH 
MARK OBERLEIS --COORDINATE ME!! 
I 
deliver your paper before BA. M. the day of ANYONE WITH INFO PLEASE CON­YOUR WHILE. DESPERATELY NEED TWO TIX FOR publication. It's never too late to order. TACT PAT FINNAN -426 FISHER MIAMI! Willing to pay$$$$$$. Please call Simply contact George Devenny at 145 (3079). I'm out of here NUDE for 2 PENN STATE Norm 277-0303 
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR SOME COOL Does Andy Wolf really have cute knees?
Stanford Hall283-2094 GA's. Call Tony 2454. 
PARTY SHADES OR SOMETHING TO Ask the IRISH GARDENSuard!! 
Need two tix to MIAMI Will pay $$$$ Call 
.......................... MISSING: TAN & WHITE KITIEN 
CUT THE TROUBI,.ESOME GLARE? IF
UNDERGRADUATES,LAW STU­(FEMALE) LAST SEEN IN N.D. AVE/SO. NEED 1-8 Miami Tickets. I'm from an Irish Mary3390 
I 
SO, CONTACT YOUR LOCAL CLASSIC GO RONNIE ... BEAT FRilZ!!!! GO DENTS,PROFESSORS, STAFF PER­BEND AVE (N.D. APTS) AREA ON MON­Catholic family and some of my brothers SUN GLASSES REP AT 1172. GREAT GEORGIE ... BEAT GERRY!!!! COL­
SONNEL, SECRETARIES SECURITY DAY, AUG 27. HAS LIGHT TIGER and sisters are coming for a game. Con­HELP I NEED STUDENT TICKETS TO 
GLASSES AT GREAT PRICES! LEGE REPUBLICANS ORGANIZA­
GUARDS, and squirrels. The NEW YORK MARKINGS, STITCHES ON RIGHT tact Scott 145 Stanford 283-2094. THE PENN STATE VS NO GAME WILL­TIONAL MEETING WEDNESDAY.
ING TO PAY$$$ CALL BILL AT 16490TIMES WILL DELIVER your copy of the SIDE OF NECK, AND BLACK PLASTIC MAXELLXL22.751150 SEPT.5 7:00PM 204 O'SHAG 
times for only 35cents on weekdays. The ANTI-SCRATCH COLLAR. PLEASE need 1 or 2 PURDUE tix, G.A. or student, 
Times guarantees delivery to your room, CALL MARK AT 289-7084 WITH ANY IN­will pay good$$$, please call255-7770 NEED 2 PURDUE. GA'S; CALL SCOTI 
CARPET REMNANTS for sale. Three THE ALCOHOL POLICY HAS NOTHING 
3281office, carrot, mailbox department office, FORMATION. THANKS. 

sizes, brown. Used last semester. Call TO DO WITH THIS BUT THE SAINT or tree before BA.M. the day of publica­I need 2 parent tix for the S Carolina
288-8461 or 233-4028 eves. MARY'S OBSERVER OFFICE IS OPEN tion. It's never too late to order so come Lost: AIWA walkman in LaFortune lobby 
game. Please call Steve at 4125. 

MONDAY TO FRIDAY FROM I 2:30PM­
on, stay up with the TIMES, contact on Monday. The tape is very important. 
FOR SALE 4 CROSBY STILLS & NASH 2:30PM. SEND YOUR FRIENDS A George Devenny at 145 Stanford Hall Reward offered please call Annie 272-Needed desperately, 2 sets of 2 Purdue
TICKETS SEPT 17th 8:00 p.m. in IN­PERSONALS NOTE TODAY! 
tickets!l Call Kevin, 3562 

283-2094 0816 
DIANAPOLIS. CALL 1331 URGENT URGENT URGENT I I>IEED A Help Wanted: Carriers for the New York LOST: A CAStO WATCH near Holy 
L FLOPPY DISKS 4 SALE $1.00 PER RIDE TO BLOOMINGTON IND. FRIDAY 
Times. Morning hours 5-7$/hour Steady Cross Hall this Sunday. call Sue at 2960. STUDENT TICKET LOTIERY for I'll die for you. 
JON3592 9!7 TERESA 284-5454 
and part-time positions available. Apply to NOTRE DAME-MICH.STATE TICKETS 
NEED 8 MIAMI GA'S WILL PAY ............................................................... . 
George 145 Stanford THIS THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6th be­I'll ells lor you. 
BE THERE MASH FANS!!! FOLLOWING tween 10 a.m.-4 p.m. in the STUDENT 
THE ORIGINAL FILM, COME DANCE IN STUDENT TICKET LOTIERY for GOV./STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
~~~~~~-~-~~-~~-~~~........................... I TICKETS ROSIE'S AS FAVORITE
BAR YOUR NOTRE DAME/MICH.ST. geme THIS OFFICE I 2nd floor LaFORTUNE 300 OUR FAVORITE AAIIIIIIIIIIItll MP J MP 

CHARACTER!! FRI. SEPT. 7TH, 10PM THURS. SEPT.6TH FROM 1Qa.m-4p.m. TICKETS AVAILABLE ONLY 1 ENTRY JMPJMPJ MPJMPJ 
HCC!! MyAySyHy ByAySyH in student gov/student act. board office PER PERSON 
FOR RENT I ~~~~;;~~~-~-~i~~f1~~~ .....................................·........................... 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-200 stu·STUDENTSII HELPI Needed 1 PURDUE TICKET Call H~QO.HOO.HQO.HOOTEA 
dent loans Due in 30 Days 1/ Interest
The Computer Center is now publishing ................................................................ OR239-7471.$$$$SSSSS$$$$$$$ Paul at 283-1609 YOU'RE A UVING DOLLI 
Open 11 :30-12:30 M-F Basementa monthly FURNISHED BASEMENT ROOM FOR $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ H~~QO.HQO.HOOTER 
LaFortune

COMPUTING TWO STUDENTS. CALL 232-6193. Need 1student Purdue ticket. Calf Liisa at NEW8LETTER 272-o805 alter 4 p.m. 
O:WHY DON'T AEROS EVERY GETto keep you up to date on campus com­NEEDEDI FOOTBALL TIX FOR THE MEN: Please call VIKKI at 276111111 MARRIED? A: THEY ARE AFRAID THAT puting activities. A copy will be sent to PENN STATE' GAME. CALL VINCE AT $$$Desperately need three student tix THEIR POP 11 WOULD GET JEALOUS.
.. 
each dorm, but we are also offering per­1233. and four GA tix Willing to pay big bucks! AUTHORS! Juniper Press is lool<ing for a 
WANTED

sonal subscriptions on a trial basis. CaH Karen or Patty at SMG-5254 manuscript ol 70-100 pages to publish Help! Little brothers -nt to see NO foot­this fall. We need It immediately. Please 
See BettyIn Room 3 in the basement ol ball game. Need toexchange 2forat least Need one Purdue ticket. Please call Mark submit your work to: Juniper Press, Am. Between you and me, the Computing Center/Math Building to SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming· 4 (or 5) for S. Car. game. Calf Pau11762. at2443 3390'Shag. Ir8111/y don't think subscribe. You must come In person to an Army Officer? Interested in Scholar· She knows where she's going at IJJI. 
sign up. Requests will be honored on a ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Needed: 1 or 2 Purdue tix; Mark x1154 HELPI In Desperate Need 01 Two K.M. CONLEY call me sometime? flm-come, flrst-118fVed basis while the Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-................................................................ Colorado Tickets! Wil Pay $$$ X JuHe--Gsnesl• supply laata. 6264) Needed: 2 So. ClrolinaGAl; Mark x1154 4031. NO MORE WALLII 

The Observer Wednesday, September 5, 1984 -page 9 
Williams could be All-America 
Offensive line pleases Selmer


Now looking for experienced Cocktail Waitresses and Door Men Apply in person: Mon. thru Thurs. 1-5 g.m. 
THE STUDENT-ALUMNI RELATIONS GROUP (SARG) 
is expanding1its membership. SARG, a liaison group between the students and alumni, is looking for sophomores, juniors and seniors who enjoy interacting with alumni, students and the University community. 
Interested students should contact JEANINE GOZDECKI AT 283·2670 no later than September 10 
LIVING OFF CAMPUS?? NEED A WASHER/DRYER?? 
NO INVESTMENT!! 
0 

We provide the washer, dryer Installation, delivery, service • parts 
CALL NOW WJII'I'MER SALES a SERVICE -234-5031 
································~ 
i Ladies i
: :
: and i i Knights : i of Columbus i 
: OPEN HOUSE :
i : 
• •:
• Kof C Hall
: .
• Tonight 7:00 p.m. : 
: :
•: Stop by to learn about our groups and •:
i 
the good community work we do. •
• i 
f Free Refreshments! J 
~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••J 
ByJERRY MELIA 
Sports Writer 
Big, strong, and well experienced. 
That's how Head Offensive Line 
Coach Carl Selmer describes this 
year's line. 
After looking at the members of the unit the statement would hardly be left open to question. With a com­bination totaling almost I,400 lbs. of beef and nine monograms earned, anyone would feel safe behind this offensive line. 
The line is headed by Larry Wil­liams at the strong guard position. This 6-6, 272-pound senior was elected as one of the Irish tri­captains for the 1984 season. Wil­liams has been moved from quick tackle to strong guard this season where his size and strength could best help the team. It will be this senior's job to replace Neil Maune who started every game for the Irish last year at this position. In evaluat­ing Williams efforts in the past, it can be seen that he is more than capable to do the job once done by the graduated Maune. 
This versatile lineman has been on many pre-season All-America teams, all of which will hold up if Williams 
Situation pending appeal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -St. Louis Cardinals shortstop Ozzie Smith was suspended for seven days and fined a reported S5,000 by the National League yesterday for bumping and knocking down umpire Steve Rip­pley in a game last Saturday night. 
The league, in announcing the penalty, said Smith had appealed the suspension, and as a result, remained eligible to play. No date was set for the hearing. 
While the NL did not announce the amount of the fine, Cardinals spokesman Jim Toomey said it was 55,000. He said Smith, in addition to appealing the suspension, also will appeal the fine. 
Rippley fell to the ground after being bumped by Smith during the Cardinals' 8-4 loss to the Houston Astros in St. Louis. As the Cards came off the field after the seventh inning, Smith stopped and said something to the umpire. Rippley ejected him and the infielder charged at him. 
Rippley said contact was made, causing him to fall on his back. 
Smith, who had disputed two close calls made by Rippley at first base, said afterward he was ejected for saying "wake up" to the umpire. 
continues to perform the way he has 
in the past. 

Members of the offensive line, as well as the entire team, can also look to senior Mike Kelley for leadership. Kelley, a 6-5, 266-pound senior, started every game at center this past season and can only add experi­ence and consistency to the entire squad. 
Like Williams, Kelley has an excel­lent chance in earning All-America honors at his position. 
At the strong tackle position the Irish have Mike Perrino. The 6-5, 275-pound junior started eight games last season and will assume this role this week against Purdue. Although he experienced a shoulder injury which required arthroscopic surgery last April, it is expected that this will not hinder Perrino in any way. 
With the movement of Larry Wil­liams to strong guard, the position of quick tackle is left wide open. Tom Doerger will be the man to fill the position. This 6-5, 272-pound junior played in all eleven regular season games last season while starting at both quick guard and strong tackle at different points. Doerger has proven to be an invaluable asset be­cause of his capabilities to play each position on the line. 
Tim Scannell, a 6-4, 277-pound junior, has earned the starting spot at quick guard. Scannell started in eight games during the 1983 cam­paign; however, he has had some in­juries in the past that have cut some of his playing time. If he stays healthy, though, he can only add more experience and strength. 
Although the starting line-up may be well established, the Irish have more than enough depth on the bench to back the starters up. Junior Ron Plantz should see a great deal of time. This 6-4, 271-pound junior is another extremely versatile player who can play any position on the line. Seniors Robbie Finnegan (6-3, 246lbs.) and Jerry Weinle ( 6-3, 251 lbs.) and sophomore John Askin (6­6, 271 lbs.) will provide plenty of support to an already strong offen­sive line. 
Selmer has been very pleased with the efforts made thus far in camp. Al­though regulars Neil Maune and Mike Shiner have been lost to graduation, Selmer says, "We have virtually the same line as last year, only with a little more experience." 
With the high quality ofplayers on this year's offensive line, the Irish of­fense, as a whole, should be at least as strong as it was a year ago. 

Smith suspended for umpire's fall 
The Alternative to the South Bend Blues. 
Made In Hollywood. USA 
presents 
THE OltiGINAL 

MOVIE POSTER. EXHI~IT AND SALE 
Hundreds of original movie posters and memorabilia from the silent days to the present. 
WHEN: TODAY THRU SEPT. 7 
WHERE: BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT aNTER 
Browse through our fine selection of movie posten. T.v. and movie scripts. lObby cards. and much, much morelll 
DON'T MISS ITII Including such hill as... Qone With The Wind Purple Rain Indiana Jonel and The ~~~~ Temple or Doom Dune Star Trek HI: The Search for Spock  


He said he didn't mean to bump 
Rippley or knock him down. 
"It's been appealed, so he'll be 
able to play until he gets a hearing," 
St. Louis Manager Whitey Herzog 
said. "He'll play tonight, he'll play to­
morrow night and he'll play until 
this is settled." 
teague officials apparently based. 
their decision on a "hurried" look at 
game films and the reports filed by 
Rippley and the other umpires 
working the game, Herzog said. 
"It depends on which films you 
look at and the angle at which it was 
taken," he said. "If you look at it 
close, you can really see that Ozzie 
just stepped on his foot and Lonnie 
intercepted him. Ozzie wouldn't 
even have bumped him. 
Pitt's Fralic offends many in interview 
Associated Press 
Pitt offensive tackle Bill Fralic, 
being promoted by the university 
for this year's Helsman Trophy, has 
offended some administrators with a 
no-holds-barred, expletive-filled in­
terview in the campus newspaper. 
"I like to go play golf and go (expletive) girls and get drunk," Fralic told Tbe Pitt News in a story published last Friday. "Ifyou can put that In there, put that in there. I don't care." 
Of the Heisman, Lombardi and Outland trophies to outstanding col­lege football players, Fralic said, "1 don't really worry about awards. l don't know what the hell some sportswriter in East (expletive) is gonna write about or who he's gonna vote for.l imagine there's a lot of guys that vote because they like this guy because he's from the school they like." 
Both the student reporter who conducted the interview, Joe Zeff, and the newspaper's editor, Todd Erkel, have resigned, but said their moves had nothing to do with the Fralic interview. "We did take out a number of profanities," Zeff said. "We felt the ones we left in were im­portant to the story." 
Fralic said he was only joking and didn't expect his words to be printed. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 5, 1984 -page 10 
after they graduate. rlut we for our players, but the good year. Forty or forty-five went to community pays for a guy's col­
Faust 

don't guarantee anybody anyth­thing here at Notre Dame is that summer school here even lege. I'm sure that that's a way it 

ing. non-athletes can get the same though only three needed to can be avoided. To achieve the continuedfrom page 12 Q. What is your reaction when help that is available to the ath­go. So, they can't make money goals and the success that they people say that college athletes letes. during the summer like all of feel is necessary, they're willing make his visit to Notre Dame, he are not really students? Q. Do you think that the huge tele­the other students can. If a to gamble the penalties won't cancelled on us. He told us he A. My philosophy on a student­vision contracts tempt schools student-athlete has a need fac· be that harsh, or they won't get wanted to visH Notre Dame, but athlete is that I don't think to cheat? tor, I'm not opposed to giving caught and they'll get their ob­then he changes his mind. So, you anybody should go to college A. It's a difficult thing to cope him a certain amount of money jectives anyway. Another sad question that. But there's no proof. just to play athletics, because with. That and alumni pressure thing is that some ofthe schools 
Besides, ifwe lose a kid because an­you never know when that are very tough, and it has af­and coaches that have other school is giving him things il­career will end. Athletes at fected many decisions of col­"Besides, ifwe lose a deliberately gone out and legally, we don't want him anyway. lege presidents around the 
cheated to build a great pro­
Q. What do you think can be done "There aren't any con­country -they end up doing kid because another gram are still doing well, even 
to solve the problem? something the way they per­school is giving him when they cheat, because 
A. The best way to solve this CeSSiOnS made herefor sonally would not want to. Fa­they've won. Meanwhile, the ther Hesburgh and Father Joyce things illegally, we
whole thing is very simple: a athletes that I know o~",· guys that have tried to be above 
young man who takes some-'J' won't bend to anything. It's got board have been let go.
don't want him any­
thing should be ineligible for they're asked to do to start with strong administra­Q. How do you feel about playing four years. Make the school tive people who have prin­way." teams that are on probation,keep him on scholarship so everything just like any ciples and beliefs, who don't 
like USC? bend to pressure from outside. 
they won't be able to replace other student., each month so that he can have A. You're playing against those 
him until the four years is up...........,....,..........,..........,......_____ 
Sometimes it's difficult. spending money. It's against the teams, but if some teams don't Then, ifthe head coach or assis­Notre Dame are not only com­Q. Don't you feel at a loss because rules for an athlete on a grant­play them, someone else will. tant is aware of it, he ought to peting in sports, but also are you are at a disadvantage in-aid to work during the You'd like to get everybody to­be fired. competing against the above­already, having to eliminate 60 school year, while other stu­gether and refuse to play some­
Q. What can Notre Dame offer to a average student in the class-percent of the athletes, and, on dents can. If they need the one who's been on probation a recruit in place of the illegal of­room. top of that, knowing that other money to spend, then I'm not couple oftimes. ferings by other schools? Q. Do you mean that an athlete has schools aren't playing fair when opposed to giving it to them. 
A. We tell the young men, "We to spend time practicing every they recruit? Q. Doesn't that make them profes­want you as much as anyone in day, yet not get any concessions A. We work harder to get the ath­sionals, when you give them 
Promotions

the country, but we're not in his classes? letes that are left. There are money for being athletes? going to break the rules. Ifsome A. Maybe you know some things enough really good athletes in A. No. They don't have the oppor­
The Observer sports department
other place breaks a rule, I that happen, but I don't. There the country that we just have to tunity to earn money, so if they announces two recent promotions.
would question them on their aren't any courses that are set fight twice as hard to get them. need it and the NCAA will allow Phil Wolf, a sophomore Americanhonesty and wonder how up for an athlete here, and most Q. How would you feel about Q. Why do some teams continue Studies major from Bloomfield Hills, they're going to treat you in the universities have them. There paying an athlete money each to break the rules? Aren't the Mich., has been named to the posi­years to come." We offer them aren't any concessions made month, UOO a month, for ex­punishments stiff enough? 
tion ofassistant sports editor.

the opportunity to play football here for athletes that I know of­ample? A. The sad thing about putting In addition, Mark B. Johnson, aand tell them that we are the they're asked to do everything A. I would not be opposed to teams on pi'obation is that some native of Indianapolis, Ind., is theuniversity with the highest just like any other student. In something like that because the of the punishments can be new Saint Mary's sports editor.
graduation rate ofany school in the long run, the schools that kids go to summer school each worked around. One of the Johnson, a junior returning from athe country year-in-and-year­make the concessions are summer to get extra hours, to punishments is taking away 10 year of study in Angers, France,
out. cheating the athlete. We're raise their grade point averages, scholarships for a year. So they majors in Government and French,
Q. Do you offer jobs to athletes playing against a lot of people to get in extra courses in case bring 1 0 walk-ons in. I don't with minors in Philosophy and Com­after they graduate as part of that we would have recruited, something happens during the think it's against the rules that a puter Applications.
your recruiting effort? 

but who we couldn't get into 
A. No. There's plenty of opportu­
school. The men we've had so nities for a Notre Dame far have really risen to the top as graduate in the business world. 
far as graduating. That's a real We tell them our reputation is 

Why not make
credit to them because here it's excellent and there's a very 
tough for everybody, not only 
SR. BAR
good chance for job placement the athletes. Tutoring is critical 
your meeting place for FUN EVERY night of the week? 
~ Attentio...-Seniors!! ~ 
PARTY ALL NIGHT with US on Friday 
w 
9-3 a.m. QUARTER BEER NIGHT 
5

~ Senior Informal registration begins* ~ 
• Thursday, September 6 • 
DJ fresh, jumbo burgers on Friday! DJ 
• 12:30 -2 and 6 -8 ~ : in LaFortune Lobby • 
« * • 
• 
Sr. Class HOME-OPENER HAPPY HOUR 6-930• Spend Sept. 28-30 in the Windy city • 
Plus 51°0 IMPORTS!!! DJ Burgers and FOOD start FRIDAY DJ 
Th 6 
HAPPY HOUR 531-8 p.m. 2for 1 plus fresh, jumbo burgers, baked beans, slaw & dessert
F 7. 
DJ BLOW OUT 'tU? 81oo Boilermakers DJ and breakfast served at South Dining Ha114-6 a.m. 
SOMETHING NEW 
ND VICTORY PARTY
s 8
9-3 a.m. 
0

DJ '1° 14oz drafts DJ
COOKIN' ON CAMPUS. 

n:TRODUCING, Coming Up: -Willie Nelson ticket raffle 
BAKZD POTATO 
-Little Kings night 
~ 

CHIPWICH 
Let's Party On! 

Offer expires 9/30/84 
Annlvenarv partiee, birthday partie•, offk:e partlee, enrp.Ue partiee, haUoween partiee... 

FOR A LIMITED TIC.iE ONLY' Anypartlee. No matter what eize party, caU ue
r---------------,
I II
BRING IN THIS AD AND RECEIVE A FREE 80Z DRINK WITH and we wW be glad to make all the 
arrangemente. Phone 239·7521 aek for Kathey. Let'• party on! 
I 

THE PURCHA·SE OF A DELICIOUS BAKED POTATO!!!!!!!!!! 
I I 

L 
**SAINT ~iARY 'S SNACK BAR AT HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER 
..I 



~~~4t)L~-----------------------------------------------VV•e•d•n•e-sd_a_y_._se_p_t_em
__be_r_5_._1_9_84---p·a•g•e•l-1 


Bloom County 


Tank McNamara 

The Far Side 
OJ ---­

"Egad! It's those weird possums from across town! Everyone fake like you're dead." 
The Daily Crossword 
41 Thrall 56 Daughter of 44 Harem slave: Eurytus 

var. 57 Pintail duck ACROSS 37 Rei. 3 Cohort of Robin 46 Crosswise 59 Soldier and Blanched 38 Per)od of note Hood 49 Mr. Wister worker 
6 Translucent 39 Cream or cap 4 Click beetle 51 Claws 61 Gr. commune silica 42 Inlet · 5 Gods: Lat. 53 Out of the way 62 Antelope 10 Sp. river 43 Reverberate 55 Cartwright or 64 OSS successor
6 Curved molding 
14 Ostracize 45 Max and family 7 Upstart Bede 65 Trevino of golf 15 Festive 47 Gypsy 8 Wing16 Exigency 48 Instrumental 9 Burdened 17 Asian mountain composition 
10 Covered Tuesday's Solution 
system 50 Ga. people completely
18 Delete 52 Flooded 11 Necklace part 20 Latvian 54 Greatdeed 12 Plexus 21 Speed up a 55 Bridal paths 13 Baltic feeder 
motor 58 Buddhist 
19 Marsh elders 22 Dodger temple 21 Track man 23 "-smile be 60 Adriatic Island 
24 Jade your..." 63 Certain friar 26 Novelist Defoe 25 Ferber and 65 Sweetheart 
27 "Forever-" Oliver 66 Old Eng. 28 Polo preceder 27 Articles of US festivals 29 Turk. coaches culture 67 Soil 31 Tales 30 Man from 68 Foe 32 Bulbous plant 
Madrid 69 Earth inheritors 
33 Paper34 Armyman: 70 Diner sign 
measures 
abbr. 71 Eng. county 40 Air or sea 35 SummerTV 
follower 

© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 9/5184
fare DOWN All Rights Reserved
36 Borge for one 1 Ring 2 Car part 
Berke Breathed 

"WARNIN6 : N080/lY €VEil NEAR 1Ht116€ Of 13 5rAK5 IN TH/5 flt.h1. TH/5 MOVIE. CONTl!tN5 INTUUG~Nr PfAUXtl/e, !?flit­llf£11feM€5 ANP NOTHIN6 THIIT KeSf.MBt.f.S APIIRN£/l MUPPET. " 
' 



Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

Gary Larson 
Campus 
•Today-Latest 
Day For All Class Changes, 

•lunch-Fast 
Sign-ups, North and South pining HaJls, Sponsored by N.D. World Hunger Coalition. 

•12:10 
p.m. -Dialogue, "Must We legislate Against Abortion?" Prof. Blakey and Prof. Rice, Pre­sented by the Social Justice Forum, Room 10 1 of the law School. 

•4 
p.m.-4:50p.m.-Aerobics, ACC Gym 4, Above Gate 3, Sponsored by NVA, 125/semester. 

•4:20 
p.m. -Physics Colloquium, "Nuclear Reac­tors and the Nuclear Reactor Industry," Dr. Brian Chen, Argonne National laboratory, Room 118 Nieuwland. 

•5:10 
p.m.· 6 p.m.· Aerobics, ACC Gym 4, Above Gate 3, Sponsored by NVA, S25/semester. 

•6:
1 5 p.m. · Circle K Club Meeting, Center For Social Concerns. 

•7 
p.m.-Placement Night, Engineering Majors, library Auditorium, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

•
7 p.m. · Open House, K of C Open House, K of C Hall, Sponsored by the ladles and Knights of Co­lumbus, Free. 

•7 
p.m. -Meeting, Al1 Those Interested Working for Science Quarterly, 343 Nieuwland. 

•7 
p.m.-Meeting, International Student Organiza. tion, 150 lounge-Basement oflaFortune. 

•7 
and 9:30p.m. and 12:00-FUm, "Blues Brot· hers," Engineering Auditorium. 

•7:30 
p.m. -Soccer, ND vs. Indiana-Purdue/Fort Wayne, Cartier Field. 


TV Tonight 
7:00p.m.  16  Double Trouble  
22  Crossroads  
7:30p.m.  16  Jennifer Slepl Here  
8:00p.m.  16  Fac!S ofUfe  
22  The Olher Woman  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  
8:30p.m.  46  Voice ofTrulh  
9:00p.m.  16  Sl. Elsewhere  
46  Today Wllh Lester Sumrall  
10:00p.m.  16  NewsCenler 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
46  Calvery Temple  
10:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  U.S. Open  
46  Everlasting Gospel  
ll:OOp.m.  22  Mov e ­The Big Land  
46  Praise !he Lord  


S.A.B. PRESENTS: 
~e BLUES 

BROTHERS 
WED. & THURS. SEPT. 5 & 6 7, 9:30 & 12 ENG. AUD. '1.50 
SAB Record Store: 
·stamps •tapes 
•records 
•tickets 
STOP BYAND CHECK IT OUT MAIN FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE 
---------------~-------­

S~orts 
Irish out for revenge against IUPU in soccer's season opener tonight 
ByPHILWOLF 
Assistant Sports Edt tor 
The Notre Dame varsity soccer team will open its season tonight un­der the lights of Cartier Field. Indiana/Purdue-Fort Wayne will be the challenger in the game, which is set to kick off at 7:30p.m. 
The match will be a chance for revenge for the Irish, who were losers last year in their opener at IUPU, 1-0. Six Notre Dame players were injured in the game, which then-Irish coach Rich Hunter called "the worst physical beating we've ever had in my seven years here." 
The game tonight also will be the debut of Hunter's successor, Dennis Grace, and the last thing the new Notre Dame head coach wants to see is more injuries. 

The Irish already are suffering from several injuries, although they have yet to don their game jerseys. Two starters -captain Steve Chang and Eric Evans -appear to be out for the season with broken legs, while several other players are suffering from less serious injuries. Forward Pat Szanto and midfielder Chris Telk both are doubtful for tonight's game. 
Grace says he realizes that IUPU is a good team, but he points out some of the advantages the Irish will have tonight. 
"(IUPU) teams are always ex­tremely well-prepared, extremely fit," he says. "They beat us last year, which I think can work in our favor. And we have them at home, which I think can work in ourfavor." 
Leading the attack for the Irish will be senior tri-captain Rkh Her­degen. The 5-11 forward was Notre Dame's leading scorer last year with 16 goals and 1 0 assists. 
Meanwhile, Dominick Driano, the team's third captain, will be anchor­ing the defense. Driano will con­tinue to play in the sweeper position, where last year he was a solid force in the "Irish Curtain" which allowed opponents only 15 goals. 
If these team leaders and the rest of the Irish play up to their potential tonight, Grace says he feels Notre Dame will emerge victorious. 
"I know (IUPU) had a great recruiting year," Grace admits, "and they return almost all of their starters from last year, but I think if . . we play like we can play, we'll be very tough to beat." 

Violations hard to prove 
Faust attacks illegal recruiting 
Notre Damefootball coach Gerry Faust bas always been adept atgetting the top talent in hisfour years of recruiting on the college level. In that time, more than once bas Faust run across others who break the rules. Today, in part two of The Observer's three-part series on recruiting violations, Faust fields questions from sports writer Theron Roberts on this growingproblem. The series will conclude tomorrow when Notre Dame athletic director Gene Corrigan takes a look at the sit­uation from the perspective ofan administrator. 
Q. How do you start the recruiting process? 
A. First, we eliminate 60 percent of the great high school athletes because, even if we wanted them, we couldn't get them into Notre Dame; either be­cause their grades weren't high enough, or be­cause they didn't take the right courses in high school. Then we analyze them football-wise. He's got to be a great athlete and have the potential to be an even better one. The next thing we do is we check out with guidance counselors, people in school, and coaches what kind of person he is. I'll never offer a kid a scholarship without visiting a kid. In fact, I took back an offer ofa scholarship ofa kid whom I visited at home, and some things went on that told me that this is not the kind of person who belongs at Notre Dame. So, I withdrew the offer. 
Q. Do you think that as many recruiting violations oc­cur as NCAA Executive Director Walter Byers sug­gested? 
A. I know that there are a lot of questionable things that happen as far as recruiting in college football. There are so many great athletes in high school that it's hard (for the NCAA) to keep tabs on all of them. Some of the violations are more serious than others, but I think any violation is a serious viola­tion if it's done with intent to recruit an athlete illegally. Take the contact rule. Most people other than us abuse that rule, which dictates how many times you're allowed to visit a kid at home and at school. 
Q. Have you ever lost a recruit where you thought an inducement was offered by another school? 
A. Definitely, but to prove it is another thing. I've had high school coaches tell me that their own kids were illegally recruited by other schools and we lost the kids for that reason. I personally have run into a couple of cases of illegal recruiting where I've called the coach and told him that it was going on, and it stopped. There's one young man whom we recruited a couple of years ago who a high school coach from another school told us we were wasting our time recruiting. He said the kid was offered $10,000 up front and $10,000 when he signed. Three days before he was supposed to 
see FAUST, page 10 
Wednesday, September 5, 1984-page 12 

By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
In a slam-bam night of women's volleyball at the ACC, the Irish bet­tered their season record to l-1 by getting the best of IU-PU in a tough fought match, winning three games to one. 
But everything was not fine and dandy for the Irish in the first game. Unable to get on track, the Irish allowed IU-PU to jump out and take command, 11-2. Late in the game the Irish started to fight. The Metros had the lead, 12-6, and the ball, but they lost their service and it was side-out, Irish. 
And then things started to happen. With freshman Kathleen Morin ser­ving, the team pulled within two at 12-l0. Kathleen Baker and Tracy Bennington keyed the Irish surge, but the magic did not last, and the team fell to the Metros, I 5-I I . 
The tables would turn in the next three games. The Irish would topple theMetrosl5-13, 15-2,and 15-12. 
Coach Art Lambert compli­mented the team's gutsy comeback. 
see VICTORY, page 8 

Odds favor Irish in Indianapolis 
Hello again, everybody! 

Wake the kids and call the neighbors, because it's time for football excitement. The much-ballyhooed game be­tween Gerry Faust's Fighting Irish and Leon Burtnett's Purdue Boilermakers in Indiana's latest monument to the high-tech era -the Indianapolis Hoosier Dome -has fi­nally arrived. Fans of both teams are excited about the prospect of traveling to Indy to see the season opener, and they have good reason to feel that way. 
On the surface, this game looks like it could be a rout, since the Irish destroyed Purdue last year 52-6 and have many of the same people coming back. However, there are several questions this game may answer. How good is Notre Dame's defensive secondary? How potent is the Irish offense? How bad is Purdue? Ifthe answer to any or all of these questions is "Not very," the Irish could have their hands full. 
Dome Doings•••Granted, the ride down U.S. 31 may not be the most exciting four hours of your life, but the Hoosier Dome is an attraction well worth the trip. In­dianapolis has already used its newest structure to lure an alleged professional sports franchise (the Colts of the NFL) and is hoping to be included in the next expansion by major league baseball. 
People who have toured the Hoosier Dome and reviewed it are liberal with their praise. Most people say there's really not a bad seat among the 62,000 in the house, and the facility is immaculate. Ifthere is a flaw, it is a lack ofadequate parking space around the stadium. So, if you're driving down to the game, let this serve as fair warning. 
For Openers...If history repeats itself, the odds are heavily in Notre Dame's favor. The Irish are a remarkable 82-8-5 in season openers and have only lost once when they opened the season away from home. Add to that stat the fact that Gerry Faust has not lost an opening game 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
Irish Items 


during his tenure at Notre Dame. Looking at those fig­ures, Leon Burtnett may want to borrow Faust's rosary beads. 
Boller Bits...Burtnett may need more than the rosary by the end of the season. Another campaign like the last two in which he went 3-8 and 3-7-1 and Purdue fans may be saying"Arrivaderci Leon." The pressure is on Burtnett this year, and unfortunately, he doesn't have a wealth of experience on the roster. 
Before you start crying for Purdue, though, look at the some of the people the Boilermakers do have on the roster. Burtnett can turn to a pair offine quarterbacks in senior Jim Everett and freshman Doug Downing. The coaching staff won't decide until Friday who will start, but look for Everett to get the nod. He had a fine game last year against the Irish in relief of Scott Campbell, and he can really fire the ball. 
Elsewhere on offense, Purdue has a pair of solid run­ning backs in Bruce King and Rodney Carter, and some fine recievers in split endJeffPrice and flanker Rick Brun­ner. The line has three starters returning and plenty of size to give the Boilermakers some time to throw the ball...something they will do frequently Saturday. 
Defensively, Purdue returns seven starters who must help improve what was a bigger disaster than Pearl Har­bor last year. The Boilermakers only held three teams under 30 points in 1983 with a young, inexperienced group. With a year of playing time under their belts, Burtnett is hoping people like free safety Rod Woodson and linebacker Kevin Sumlin can keep Purdue in the game. 
Irish Update...As far as personnel is concerned, the Irish have moved Robert Banks into one of the outside linebacker spots due to the injury of Mike Larkin. Banks has good speed, and should be more than sufficient as a replacement. Other than that, the Irish have a few nag­gingproblems, but nothing to keep anyone from playing. 
One thing to watch for on Saturday will be the perfor­mance of the specialty teams. With the departure of punter Blair Kiel and place-kicker Mike Johnston, the Irish will be using relatively inexperienced people to fill those slots. Mike Viracola will handle the punting chores, while John Carne;y will take care of kicking off the tee. If it's a close game, it could come down to how well these people perform. 
Don't look for any major strategy surprises from the coaching staff. You know Notre Dame will want to mix it up more on offense than last year, so Allen Pinkett will probably only carry the ball a maximum of20 times. Look for Steve Beuerlein to throw more often, as well as hand­off to the fullbacks with greater frequency. 
In short, the Irish have said what they want to do, and now it's up to Purdue to stop them. It's just that simple. 
Pickofthe Week.. .Another team will open the season with Purdue this weekend. Jill Lindenfeld will make her Irish coaching debut as the Notre Dame field hockey team will open the season against the Boilermakers Sun­day at 3 p.m. on Alumni Field. 
This team is one of the best kept secrets on campus, and after pulling off an 11-9-2 season a year ago, it's time they got some of the respect they deserve. Sophomore Corinne DiGiacomo ( 18 goals in '83) will lead the Irish attack, while junior Patti Gallagher will work in goal at trying to reduce her 1.24 GA (goals against) average from a year ago. It should be a good game, so plan to be there. 


