-----.:----------~~ 
Exercise your right to vote! 

llw indqwndcrll ~llllkllt lll"\\~papl·r ~en ing notrl dame ;tnd 'aitll man·~ TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1984
VOL XIX, NO. '50 
Board of Governance explores possibilities of course evaluations 
By ANNE GALLAGHER Due to an expressed "lack ofcom­StaffReporter munity feeling" in the chapel, Campus Ministry is seeking student 
"!be Saint Mary's Hoard of Gover­input on the Mass, and may decide to nance lao;t night discussed the possi­switch the Mass to Stapleton bility of providing students with Lounge. course evaluation booklets similiar The board also followed up with to those sponsored by Notre Dame's last week's meeting with the student government Observer. It was suggested the tradi­
Julie Strazzaboscu, vice president tional endorsement of student body for academic: affairs, said the board's officers by the Observer take place Interest in such a plan stems from a the same evening as 'meet-the­survey by the Student Academic candidates' night. Council to question the present "It puts more pressure on the means of course evaluation at the people running," said Lee Ann College. Franks, student body president. "But 
'"I hope our report will result in a I think It could be good pressure. I chance for results by spring, 1985," think it is a good idea." said Strazzabosco. 
Ann Marie Kollman, vice presi­Currently, Notre Dame students dent for student affairs agreed, add­receive course description books ing, "I think It also gives people awhich describe the course and the 
chance to hear the Observer's ques­
teacher based on student input. If tions for themselves, and decide forthe survey indicates students feel a themselves whether the Observer Ischange Is needed in present evalua­right in Its opinion or not."
tion methods, Strazzabosco foresees 
the possibility ofsuch course evalua­Also discussed was the possibilitytion booklets being compliled at of an on-campus hair salon. As the Saint Mary's. 
College has the space to house such "It is a big project though, and it a facillry, there are already two bid­probably wouldn't come out until a ders for the position, Universiry Hair year or so from now, "she said. 
Stylists and Hair Crafters. 
Besides the course evaluation sur­veys,the board considered the "They would be placing a branch campus ministry questionnaire, here,"said Mary Anne O'Donnell, which will be distributed on No­director of student activities. "It President Cathy David, right, listen to Karen Nt/1 vember IH, following the 10 p.m. would be purely on an experimental andBryan Dedrick explain their ideas for the new Mass In LeMans. basis for a year." "I'm Driving Club." Story below. 

Reagan and Mondale end campaign, await result 
Asllodated Pre1111  "prairie fire" he promised to ignite  gence every day will pay the price  A political pioneer, Ferraro was in  as he ripped into the Democrats as  
Ronald Reagan and Walter Mondalc played out the final scenes yesterday of a year-long campaign drama, the president saying his work In Wao;hlngton has "only just begun" and the Democratic challenger charging that if victorious, Republicans would claim a "historic mandate" to raise taxes and send combat troops to Central America. The president, ending his final campaign with a nostalgic tour of California, said the conservative  two decades ago had now swept the nation. · "It was the second American Revolution, and it's only just begun," he said. Listing his goals for a second term, he said, "No. I of all is peace, disarmament and the reduction of world nuclear weapons." His underdog challenger im­plored a crowd in Los Angeles to provide the votes for "the biggest upset ever ... We can prove that a president who insults our intelli­ on Election Day," he said. The polls showed Mondale gaining in the campaign's final hours, but despite that, and for all the crowds he drew along his way, he trailed Reagan by runaway mar­gins in nearly every reckoning save his own. "We're gonna win," he claimed, with vice presidential nominee Geraldine Ferraro virtually the only voice seconding him.  the finai hours of her campaign, as well, racing from Ohio to Pennsylva­nia to NewJersey to New York with her message: "stand up and fight for Fritz Mondale." Reagan radiated confidence as his top campaign aide said the president would "try to win everything" and roll up a historic SO-state sweep. The president offered no predic­tion about the verdict of the voters  the parry of "torpor, timidity and taxes." "I'm proud to say that In the past four years, not one square-inch of soil has been lost to communist ag­gression," he ·added, touching on a theme he used often during the cam­paign. Vice President George Bush wrapped up his 37,000-mile cam­paign for a second term with a flying tour of Texas, where he sought to help GOP congressional candidates.  
Student Senate encourages taverns  
to support new drunk driving plan  
By MIKE MILLEN  show that they care about more than  the three resolutions which  went  
StaffReporter  just money." Brian Dedrick has been  before  the  Campus  Life  Council.  
placed in charge of the project, and  Resolutions  proposed  by  Senator  
Aresolution encouraging bars and  expressed optimism concerning its  Javier Oliva urging students to park  




taverns to participate in the "I'm success. He said South Bend Mayor 
Driving Club" unanimously passed Roger Parent has expressed interest at last night's Student Senate in the program. meeting. Student Body Treasurer AI Novas 
Designed to combat stark statis­presented the student government tics presented by drunk driving, the financial statement for the plan involves local liquor establish­1983/1984 school year. The com­ments providing free soft-drinks for prehensive report gave the budget 
anyone driving two or more drink­and statement of operations for the ing friends home. past three years. According to 
According to Student Body Vice Novas, the report was prepared In President Cathy David, the idea has lieu of an auditing by the Notre met with great success in Wisconsin. Dame Auditors. He said the report She sees the plan as being beneficial showed student government 
Democratic presidential candidate Walter Mondale flashes the to participating establishments be­making a profit even after paying ex­11ictory sign to supporters in Pittsburgh earlier in the campaign. cause "It can create good will within penses of more than S620,000. Although polls show Ronald Reagan to have a strong lead, the community, help combat the Student Body President Rob Ber­Monelale is still hoping to emerge victorious in today's election. drunk driving problem, and will tino reported on the official status of 
see SENATE, page 6 

Vote! 
All Notre Dame students living on campus are reminded to vote today at Stepan Center. The polls close there at 6 p.m. Saint Mary's students should cast their ballots in Augusta Hall. Residents ofUni­verslry Village are to vote at the Roseland Town Hall, 200 Inde­pendence Drive. O'Hara Grace Townhouse residents are to vote at U ttle Flower School, 54 1 91 
North Ironwood Rd. 

The Observer Tuesday, November 6, 1984 -page 2 

In Brief ­
A boycott of Coors beer is uncter stucty by the University ofKansas student government. Already, the KU residence hall association and Panhellenic Association are boycotting the Colorado product because of allegedly racist remarks by its chair­man, William Coors. Before student government makes its mind up, however, two students will visit the Coors plant, courtesy of the brewery.-The Obseroer 
A judge reinstated yesterday all charges against the five defendants in the "Twilight Zone" movie helicopter accident, including two counts of involuntary manslaughter based on child endangering against award-winning director John Landis. The charges stemmed from theJuly 1982 deaths ofactor Vic Morrow and two children during the shooting of a helicopter crash scene in the 
film, "Twilight Zone-the Movie." Los Angeles Superior CourtJudge 
r Gordon Ringer also reinstated two counts of involuntary 
r manslaughter based on child endangering against associate 
'r 
I 
producer George Folsey and unit production manager Dan Allin­gham. Those charges against Landis, Folsey and Allingham were dis­missed last spring by Municipal CourtJudge Brian Crahan. -AP 
Walter Mondale's last, best hope for a miraculous up­set in today's election rests with a silent vote composed of women who may support him in greater numbers than they've been willing to admit and a black and Hispanic minority that might be bigger than people think. "Along -yvith the undercounted minority, we have the discounted majority," said Ann Lewis, political director for the Dem­ocratic Party. Women are expected to be about 53 percent of the electorate this year. Lewis said she and other party operatives encounter many women who identify with Democratic vice presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro "but insist, 'don't use my name, don't tell my husband, don't tell my ex.' " However, Richard Wirthlin, President Reagan's pollster, discounted that theory. -AP 
A Ten Most Wanted List constituent anct four other people allegedly linked to a terrorist group appeared in court yesterday in Detroit, hours after authorities raided a house of an­other fugitive on the list but found no one there. U.S. magistrate Davis Perelman scheduled a hearing for tomorrow on whether bond should be set for Raymond Luc Levasseur, 36, who was on the FBI list; Patricia Gros, 30, who lived with Levasseur; Richard Charles Williams, 37; Jaan Karl Laaman, 36; and Barbara J. Curzi, 26, who lived with Laaman. A hearing was scheduled for today to determine if Curzi, 26, could be remanded to the custody ofher parents in Boston pending further hearings. Curzi has three children and lived with Laaman in Cleveland, the FBI said. Williams also was arrested Sunday in the raid on that house. -AP 
Of Interest 
An Election Night Galawill be held tonight begin­ning at 8 in the Chautauqua Ballroom in the Lafortune Student Cen­ter. Election return coverage by the three major networks will be shown on a wide-screen television and campus speakers will be featured. Refreshments will be served. The event's sponsor, the Elec­tion Task Force, is inviting all students and faculty to attend. Admis­sion is two dollars. -The Obseroer 
Election resultswill also be the theme ora party in the Haggar College Center tonight. Students are invited to come and watch election returns. -The Obseroer 

Weather 
Election Day weather wm r··· 
:(): 
be cool, with a high around 45. Mostly clear and cold tonight. Low around 35. Increasing cloudiness and warmer tomorrow when it's all over. High around 55, with a 20 percent chance ofrain. 
The Obsenrer-
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( SZO per se­mester) by writing The Observer, P.O. 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction right.• are reserved. 
Today's issue was produced by: 

Production Consultant ........ Steve Foster Design Editor.............................. Tom Small Design Assistant........................Anne Long Typesetters .............. Mary Ellen, Tom, Ted News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino Copy Edltor ............................... ]ohn Heasly Sports Copy Editor .............. Marc Ramirez VIewpoint Layuut..................... Paul Bruce ND Day EditOr ........................ Barb Stevens SMC Day Edltor.................... Carolyn Kelly Ad Design ................................ Susan O'Hara 
Photographer ............... Chaitanya Panchal 
Let's get back to work 
At last, today it is finally over. 

It seems this presidential campaign has lasted forever. The Iowa caucus was Feburary 20th and eight days later New Hampshire held the first of the many primaries that we were bombarded with the results of. Does it seem possible both of these events were actu­ally this year? 
Finally, by tonight, we will know who is to be our president for the next four years. But, a little over two years will pass before the in{:umbent has to start seriously preparing for the next campaign. 
Personally, I will be glad when this election is over. I 
am getting tired of political announcements, commer­
cials, mailings, and the news being full of what the can-
dictates have done and said that day. 
A friend said yesterday that it would be OK with him 
if the election was not held for another couple of 
months because he finds it "exciting.'' I just can't get 
excited about an election in which the pollsters are 
talking about the possibility of a record-setting landslide. This election, especially of late, hasn't exactly provided us with a great amount of suspense as to the outcome. 
A worker in the Mondale-Ferraro campaign said last night she wished the elec­tion was not for a while be­cause if held later, the Democratic ticket might have a better chance. That' may be true, but how much time do they really want? Campaigning started close to two years ago. 
There seems to almost be a feeling of futility and of wasted time with this cam­paign lately. Very few reasonable people will tell you they have any doubt about the outcome oftoday's contest. We need to settle this election and get on with the business ofrunning the country. There are more significant issues for the press and the public to focus on than who wore more makeup in the latest presidential debate or the finances of the Democratic vice presidential candidate's husband. 
From a purely practical point of view, the public is 
not getting what it is paying for in government if our 
elected officials are campaigning for office for close to 
half their term, rather than governing. Can a president 
who is spending a significant amount of his time away 
from Washington campaigning really govern the 
country as he was elected to do? It doesn't seem likely. 
During the campaign it seems nothing ofimportance 
is accomplished. The incumbt:nts are too busy cam­
paigning to be doing a lot of ~ignificant work, and of 
course they don't want to enact any law that would dis­
please any section ofthe electorate. 
=~ -==-=~ 

Need E:atn c....__ 
MONEY?? 
Telephone Sales • Experienc::e preferred but not required. Part or Full time. 

CAI.LZS4-H7S 
~­
,§ll\\~ ~IP(\J)lfit~ UJJrulimliit~cdl~ llllliCCo 
Skydlulng Instruction and Paraplane Flight Instruction 
llNH-UH ......_­119-586-IHS H­



CANCER.
NOT


KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
IS YOUR 
GREATEST 
RISK. 


! JOHN MARSHALL ! 
E LAW SCHOOL 'J!~~/~ i .f A:;~~~~;e~s~;-~~~;~G~~: ~·!~-'~'{_,!·• 
:February, June, September Admissions : 
• Day or Evening Classes .... . :
. _, . 
: John Marshall Law School admits without regard : : to national or ethnic origin : 
: APPROVED FOR VETERANS : : Graduationfrom John Marshall meets the :i requirements for admission to the Bar : : Examination in Georgia and Indiana ONLY : : (404)872-3593 : 
............................................................................................ 
The Irish Gardens 

Hours: 
12:30-5:30 p.m. 
Dial 283-4242 to place an order 

Order corsages and wrapped flowers in advance . c_ .::_ ..~Two days notice required for corsages 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH..IIIIIIIII 
Mark Potter 
Copy Editor 
Inside Tuesday 
Wouldn't the public interest be better served if the campaign was shorter, so that those elected to office could spend more time doing the job they were elected to do and less time making sure they will be elected again? 
Election campaigns are not a bad thing nor should they be abolished. They produce a lot of good results. They get the candidates out among the people and force them to at least appear as if they are listening to the voters. Although many campaign promises end up 
-==-~
--==--. unfulfilled, we do know the 
candidates are at least think­
ing about the issues people 
are concerned with. 
Maybe we need to set the 
primaries and caucuses 
closer to the election and to 
have some sort of laws 
regulating how early before 
an election a candidate can 
campaign. But, what we 
really need right now more 
than anything is rest -rest 
from campaign rhetoric and 
posturing and from political 
commercials and mailings. 
The quicker today's winner 
settles into the job of run­
ning the country and heals 
political wounds the better. 
The problems facing the nation won't be dissipated by campaign promises or whistle-stop tours. Progress can be made on them ifthe victor in today's election puts the election as far behind us as possible and starts to work on them. It's as if we have spent time in limbo, time in which very little has been done by our elected officials except to make sure they have the same position for another term. 
Let's put the election behind us and get on with life. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpoint page. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board orThe Observer staff. 


The Observer Tuesday, November 6, 1984 -page 3 

the residence balls. From left, Priscilla Wong, Margaret Garvey, andFather Steve Gibson discuss an upcoming issue. Story at right. 

$2 
on 

® 
Getting through college isn't easy. But help is on the way. Because Domino's Pizza is offering you financial assistance on your next pizza. The Pizza made with 1 00% natural cheeses and fresh, not frozen toppings. And we'll deliver it, custom-made, to your door in 30 minutes or less. GUARANTEED. Call Domino's Pizza and help yourself to the best tasting pizza around. 
DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERS™ FREE. 
Essays on media ethics published by ND Press 
Spedal to The Observer 
"The Responsibilities of Journalism," edited by Robert Schmuhl, assistant professor of American Studies at Notre Dame, has recently been published by the University of Notre Dame Press. 
The book is a collection of essays arising from a conference convened at Notre Dame under Schmuhl's di­rection to study the ethical prob­lems of contemporary journalism. Contributors include Edwin New­man, veteran br<)adcast journalist and author of "Strictly Speaking"; syndicated columnist Georgie Anne Geyer; Father Edward Malloy, asso· date professor of theology and Fa· ther Oliver Williams, adjunct associate professor of management at Notre Dame; Jeff Greenfield, synd­icated columnist and commentator for ABC news; Max Lerner, synd­icatc:d columnist and John E. Swearingen, Standard Oil executive. 
According to Phil Record, prc:si­dent of the Society of Professional Journalists, Sigma Delta Chi, "'Ibis book is so pertinent to our times, and if we are to become responsible: journalists...we should heed the les­sons and admonistions it contains." 
Sl·hmuhl graduated from Notre Dame in 1970 and receivc:d his master's and doctoral degrees from Indiana University in 1978.J:Ie joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1980. In 1983, he received the Clarion Award for his direnion of the "Responsibilities of Journalism" conference the year before. 


Bulletin to be revived by University Ministry 
By MATTHEW DOlAN 
News Staff 
Notre Dame's Religious Bulletin, a 
campus newsletter once described 
as "the most palatable one-a-day 
spiritual vitamin ever compounded 
for college students" has been 
revived by the Office of University 
Ministry. 
The bulletin originally appeared in 1921 and was a prominent feature of student life. It was organized by Father John O'Hara, who was Notre Dame's dean of religious affairs before becoming University presi· dent and later Cardinal Archbishop 
of Philadelphia. 
"Informally it was referred to as 'letter from God"' said Father Frank Gartland, a former editor of the bul­letin in the late thirties. 
Popularity of the bulletin grew, and by Sept. 1938, there was a cir­culation of 18,000, according to Gartland. Other colleges and neacly every Catholic high school in the country wanted a copy. 
The revised bulletin will be a weekly distribution to Notre Dame students at Sunday masses in Sacred Heart Church and copies will be put under student's doors. 
"Originally we gave the rectors 
about ten copies to post around the 
halls but response has been so posi­
tive, we arc now distributiflB tbc 
bulletin to all the student's rooms," 
said Father Daniel Jenky, director of 
Campus Ministry. 
Campus Ministry members said they decided to resurrect the bulle­tin because they saw the need to communicate the message of the church. 
"We saw the bulletin as a way communicating to the students the way a parish bulletin communicates to it's parish," saidJenky. 
The bulletin is organized by Fa­ther-Steve Gibson, Prescilla Wong and Margaret Garvey. It is designed to carry church announcements, mass schedules, and religious read­ings. 
"We want the bulletin to be a simple reading that students can read quickly," saidjenky. 
Jenky said altough the demand for copies has been very high, the bul­leting will remain a weekly for the time being because there is not enough information for it to be printed daily. 



.............. 
BILLY S<S)UIEt:< 
with special guest 

RATT 

Tuesday, November 6 7:30p.m. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
· ALL SEATS RESERVED Sl2" and SJJ'• 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE A.C C BOX OFFICE. SEARS.IIOBERTSONS. ELKHART TRUTH. J R 'S MUSIC SHOI'. ST JOSEPH'S BANK (MAIN OFFICE!. WORLD RECORD (GOSHEN). MUSIC MAGIC !BENTON HARBOR). AND KARMA RECORDS (fl WAYNE) 

The Observer Tuesday, November 6, 1984-page 4 


Experts explore ethics of baboon transplant 
By PAT CONLIN 
News Staff 
The life of a human must always 
take precedence over an animal, 
even if it means the death of the 
animal, said Father Edward Malloy, 
University associate provost. Malloy 
was referring to the recent 
transplant of a baboon's heart to an 
infant. 
The child, nicknamed "Baby Fae," 
has reached the tenth day consid­
ered critical in organ transplants. 
The landmark operation and its 
medical and ethical ramifications 
are now being examined by experts 
across the country. 
"I have no problem with the priority of saving a human life over an animal's life. Of course the life of an animal must be respected, but in a critical situation, a human life must be saved," said Father Edward Mal­loy, University associate provost, and noted expert on medical ethics. "I have a question about whether we should finance advanced tech­nological surgery like this, or put funds toward things that would benefit the majority." 
Professor David Sever, chairman of the biology department at Saint Mary's said, "Anything to save a 
human life is proper. Ifthey had had 
the luxury of time they should have 
looked longer for a human heart. 
This should not be experimental 
surgery." 
This type of surgery is unprece· 
dented. Cross species organ 
transplants are a relatively new area 
in the field of medicine. Research 
has been done with animal-to­
animal transplants, but the baboon 
transplant is the first in animal-to­
human surgery. · 
According to Sever, "it (the · baboon heart) will have to be 
replaced with a human heart fairly 
soon. I can't imagine a baboon heart 
functioning in a human, once it has 
grown beyond the size ofa baboon." 
Questions have arisen as to the validity of this particular case and the necessity of performing the op­eration on this child. Some have speculated a human heart could have been found in time to save Baby Fae. Malloy further said, "There is a pressure on scientists to do something radical to improve their own reputation, to gain recognition. The context in which this surr,ery is used must be ex­amined." 

Fasting for hunger 
Saint Mary's junior Barb <folticamp signs up for 
the Oxfam Fast yestertiay in tbe SMC tiining ball. 
Tbe annual fast will be Nov. 15, anti parttctpat-


FLOC supporters aim for better working conditions 
ByJOHN HINES 
News Staff 
Extremely low wages for farm laborers is one reason the Campbell Company is being criticized by agricultural workers, according to Notre Dame student Dennis Arec­higa. 
Arechiga is co-president of the Notre Dame chapter of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, a. group of farm workers who have been conducting a national boycott ofCampell and Libby products since January, 1979, to get to the bargain­ing table with Campbell's. 
"The goal of FLOC is to obtain 
AssociatedPress 
WARSAW, Poland -Authorities charged an Interior Ministry colonel yesterday with assisting in the kid­napping and murder of a pro­Solidarity priest. A dissident said church officials were keeping a "terrifying" autopsy report secret to 
maintain calm. 
The official news agency PAP carried an Interior Ministry com­munique saying Col. Adam Pietruszka had been arrested and charged with "aiding and abetting" in the kidnapping and killing of the Rev. )erzy Popieluszko. 
Dissident historian Jan )ozef Lipski, a member of the now­disbanded .workers' rights group KOR, told journalists he had learned from church sources that "the doc­tor's description of the body and what most probably happened is ter­rifying and could heat up the present tense emotions." 
Pietruszka, described by PAP as deputy director ofan unspecified In­terior Ministry department, was the fourth ministry official charged in connection with the case. 
A captain and two lieutenants in the secret police face kidnapping charges, and a government spokes­man said the three either have already been charged with the kil­ling or will be charged soon. 
Government spokesman )erzy Ur­ban told Tbe Assoctateti Press in a telephone interview that he did not know whether murder charges had been filed against the three, "but if this has not been done, as far as I know, the prosecutor's office will charge them with the killing." 
PAP said the prosecutor general did not find grounds to charge an-three way bargaining between farm owners, The Campbell Company and the farm workers. The national organization has concentrated on Campbell because Campbell is the biggest and most observable," said Arechiga. 
At Notre Dame, FLOC has been successful at eliminating the use of Campbell products in The Huddle, Corby Hall, Moreau Seminary, the North and South Dining Halls, and most of the dorm food sales on campus. 
The fact that the Campbell Com­pany forces independent farmers to either pay their migrant farm workers very low wages (averaging Jl.96 per hour) or to increase their mechanization process, thus com­pletely eliminating the need for mi­
grant farm laborers, is the major point ofgrievance. 
"It definitely bothers Campbell that Notre Dame, a well-known insti­tution, has passed the boycott, but in my opinion it has a long way to go still," said Arechiga. 
"Their argument is that they (The Campbell Company) do not employ any farm workers. They are neglect­ing the fact that they are entirely re­sponsible for the wages and living conditions of the workers. 


Polish government official tied to the kidnap and murder of priest 
other colonel arrested Friday. It said he faced possible "disciplinary procedures" within the ministry. 
An official who took part in the autopsy refused to comment on reports that Popieluszko had been beaten, but confirmed earlier that the priest had been thrown into the water with his hands and ankles bound, and a rope tied around his neck so he would choke if he struggled. 
Ah... 

Christmas in So. California ! The Southern California Club will hold a meeting tonight in the Little Theatre of Lafortune at 8:00pm. to discuss group flight arrangements for Christmas break. Questions call: Carrie 2666 or Terri 1704 
SMC COTHs majors Pre-pre-registration 
In the departmental office, 110 Morreau 8am-12pm, lpm-5pm 
Sophomores:Tuesday,.Nov.6 Freshman: Wednesday, Nov. 7 
Campbell's sets the price and quan-ment of current pesticide regula­tity of produce before the season tions, partial reimbursement of begins," said Arechiga. travel ex-penses and retraining pro-FLOC's major goals are better grams for workers displaced from 
housing conditions, a S3.50 hourly the job market as a result of mec­minimum wage, a 28 hour minimum hanization. work week, medical coverage for "Mainly we just want to get to the four months of the year, enforce· bargaining table," said Arechiga. 
BE KAPLAN 'GROUCHO'' 
Tickets at Century Center $10.50, dent tickets $7.50 avail. $12.50, Notre Dame S.A.B. Record $14.50 and I.U.S.B. Theatre Dept. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
7: PM 



Hey Mate! 

JDhe-~-needsyou.The news department is accepting applications for. 
Copy Editor 


For more Information 
contact Dan, Sarah or Anne 
at 239·5313. Applications 
aredue Thursday at 5 p.m. 

An Ivy League Sprhzg iu New York 

Qualified juniors are invited to apply for admission to Columbia College as visiting students beginning in late January 1985. Full access to housing, library resources, and uppPr division courses. For further information and an application, write or call: 
Columbia College Admissions Office 212 Hamilton Hall New York, New York _10027 (212) 280-2521 


~-~----­
Tuesday, November 6, 1984 -page 5 

The Observer 


THE AT&T CAll ME CARD. THE WY WAY TO CALL HOME AID SHARE THE RIGORS OF COLLEGE LIFE. 

College can be rough on a kid. Espe­cially when the refreshments and cash run out at the same time. 
What to do about the cash flow prob­lem? Call home with the AT&T CALL ME Card. With it, you can get in touch with your family quickly and conveniently. Without the hassle of calling collect or fumbling for spare change. And since the CALL ME Card lets you call one place and one place only-home-your parents are more than willing to pick up the tab. All your phone calls home with the AT&T CALL ME Card show up right along with Mom and Dad's other telephone charges. 
GOA ClUE. GET THE AT&T CAll ME CARD. 
So don't sing the budget blues all by yourself. Call home with the AT&T CALL ME Card. And let them know their favorite investment in the future needs a little monetary help right now. 
Don't have an AT&T CALL ME Card yet? Mail the coupon at right to AT&T arid we'll send an application home to your par­ents. Or phone: 
I 800 CALL An, Ext. 50. 
~--------------, 
GO THE AT&T CAU ME CAID. THE BEST WAY TO CAU HOME. WHEN YOU'RE AWAY ROM HOME. 

Call 1 800 CALL ATT, Ext. 50 to have a CALL ME Card application sent to your parents. Or complete and return this form to AT&T College Promotions, P.O. Box 49466, Atlanta, GA 30359. 
Your Parents' Name 
Address 
City/State/Zip ( ) 
Parents' Phone No. 
Your Name (0 Mr./0 Ms.) 


ATiaT 

..... ~
············· 1
~ 
The Observer Tuesday, November 6, 1984 -page 6 
U.S. hopes for Soviet approval of new anti-chemical weapons treaty 
r Associated Press 
r WASHINGTON· U.S. arms control r officials are hoping for Soviet ap­r proval of a new anti-chemical weap· ons treaty which would give each of~ the superpowers the right to make unprecedented and wide-ranging in· 
r 
' 
spections ofthe other side's military r 
and government facilities.
r 
The proposed treaty, which has
r 
been offered by the United States at
r 
the ongoing 40-nation Geneva dis·
r 
r 
armament talks, is now the subject 
r 
of intense discussion among U.S. allies, according to sources who spoke only on condition they not be identified. Douglas Feith, deputy assistant secretary ofdefense for negotiations policy, said in a recent interview that the U.S. treaty "is totally un· precedented. We've never made an offer like this." The heart ofthe U.S. proposal is an offer to permit "special inspections" of all government facilities, includ· ing any military installations, along with all "government-controlled facilities," which would include private companies doing contract work. That would permit the Soviets to inspect a wide range ofU.S. facilities ifthey wanted, even the Pentagon or the White House, Feith acknowl­edged. But the United States would have the same right to look at Soviet facilities, something the Russians have never granted, he noted. With polls showing President Reagan likely to win re-election, the arms control policies which would be pursued in a second Reagan ad· ministration are now under review by advisers who are divided on how 
r 
Senate 
continued/rom page 1 
their cars in a central location over Christmas break and a plan simpli· fying payment of dining meals passed at the meeting, as did the lil' Sibs Weekend. 
Bertino reported the two senate resolutions will go into effect as soon as possible, though lil' Sibswas rejected by Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs. Bertino said "although there is an appeals process we could go through, .the administration is fully against the event at this time." 
TYPING 
Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 
Call Chris at: 
234-8997 
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE Presents 
PROF. MORTON S. FUCHS 
Chairman of the Biology and Microbiology Oepts. 

It .,.,. te be l.,.or••• , .....tl.... 
NOV. 6 AT 8:00 PM LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
to verify any pacts, particularly amid "fact-finding" panel of five nations, 
U.S. charges the Soviets may have including the United States, the cheated on past treaties. Soviets and three other countries. 
The unprecedented inspection Only those five could order a proposal in the draft chemical weap­"challenge" inspection and any ons treaty is one possible way to treaty member wanting a check keep the Soviets from cheating, say would have to convince one ofthose administration officials. five to seek it. 
But the Soviets have publicly lbere are now two anti-CW criticized the U.S. proposal and it is treaties, a 19 2 5 Geneva pact and a unclear whether they will ever al· 1972 agreement, but both lack en· low it. forcement and verification provi­
The U.S. proposal would create a sions. 
Investigation begins in Gandhi assassination 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI, India · The ashes of 
Indira Gandhi were sent out to the 
distant corners of India yesterday as 
her son and successor struggled to 
keep new violence from flaring 
across this bloodied, embittered 
land. 
The worst of the deadly anti-Sikh 
reprisals for Prime Minister Gandhi's 
assassination subsided over the 
weekend, but at least three people 
were reported killed yesterday in 
New Delhi · two Sikhs burned to 
death, and one person shot dead by 
snipers said to be Sikhs. 
Other deaths were reported in Sikh-populated Punjab state. 
Rajiv Gandhi, the new prime mini· ster, asked the Indian Supreme Court's chief justice, Y.V. Chandrac­hud, to head a commission to inves­tigate Mrs. Gandhi's slaying last Wednesdayby two men identified as Sikh members of her security guard, the news agency United News ofln· dia said. 
Unsubstantiated newspaper reports persisted ofa high-level mili· tary conspiracy behind the assas­sination. Justice Chandrachud was expected to give his reply soon to Gandhi's request, UNI said. 
One of the assassins was killed by 

other Gandhi guards, but the 
second, identified as Satwant Singh, 
survived with gunshot wounds and 
was listed in serious condition yes­
terday at a New Delhi hospital. 
Reports conflicted on whether Sat· 
want Singh was well enough to be 
interrogated. 
In the chill gray dawn yesterday, about 36 hours after Mrs. Gandhi's bodywas cremated on a sandalwood pyre beside the Yamuna River, her son returned to help collect her ashes. 
On Saturday, in a final ceremony, the ashes will be scattered over the snow-capped Himalayas beloved by Mrs. Gandhi. 
The rioting that exploded after her assassination took more than 1,000 lives, mostly Sikhs, in one of the worst sieges of communal vio· lence since the Hindu-Moslem carnage at the time of partition of the subcontinent in 1947. 
Over 500 were reported slain in New Delhi alone, many of them Sikhs slaughtered Thursday and Friday in a poor district of east New Delhi. 
THE EARLY.~BIRD... .~S~  
PREPARE FOR:  
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, Indiana 46637~~ (219) 272-4135 Educational Center  

~
................................ 

Theindependentstudentnewspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Asst. Saint Mary's Editor 
e Responsible for story ideas 
e Observer experience necessary 
e Salaried position 
Submit application and personal statement to Anne Monastyrski by 5 p.m. Friday. For more information, call The Observer at 239-5313. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

APPhmo 

Rajiv Ganahi, son ofassassinateaInaian Prime Minister /naira Ganabi, was sworn in as prime ministerjusta few hours after his mother's aeath. Ganahi's first task asprime ministerbas been to try ana quell the rioting musea by the muraer ofhis mother. 

Like to write? 
There will be a meeting for anyone interested in 



Features 

writing for The Observer 
Wednesday, Nov. 7 at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre 

Writing topics include record, movie and book reviews, general human interest articles, and humor columns. 
For more information contact Mary Hea!y at the Observeroffice, 239-5313. 
After JOUI" lastexam, whattoughquestions will youstill befacing? 


W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community. 
Contoct: Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 • 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 283·6385 



View~_o_i_n_t________
Tu-es-da-y,-No-ve-mb-er-6,_19-84-p-age-7 
Realizing the kind of civilization we are 
Equating Pro-Life with anti-women 

At the l·nd ofthe campaign, with little doubt about victor and vanquisht:d, the historian will observe that everyone was trying to fig· ure out what it all proved-if anything. 
Did it prove that "issues" don't count for much In a media-oriented culture, that charisma does count, that debates are tricky 
Max Lerner 
The Lerner column 
and dangerous, that a campaign can get pretty nasty with steamy epithets and wild distor­tions or that voters don't behave as pundits want them to? 
All this, yes, and much more. For me the campaign has shown the kind of civilization we are, warts and all. 
It is a civilization ruled by fears, and both candidates have tried to exploit them. The big fears cluster around the economy and around nuclear war and terrorist deaths. Walter Mondale has gone after both, fixing on the budget deficit and on arms control and "star wars." Ronald Reagan has gone after the fears ofhigher taxes and spending. 
Somehow, through the whole campaign, a third major lurking fear has surfaced -that of ethnic and religious divisiveness. The Jesse jackson blacks feel the election has bypassed them, and the Southern whites feel threatened by the racial overtones of the black registra­tion drive. 
The Jews in turn feel caught between the menace of a Left black anti-Semitism with roots in mideast Arab-Israeli tensions, and a movement of Evangelicals on the Right to a "Christian" America. 
It isn't pretty, but it is what happens in presidential elections. Alas, by the very nature of our democracy, any national referendum, packing such high power stakes, is bound to stir fears and divisions. 
Since Mondale is the attacker and lacks the incumbent's record and persona, he has had to explore for fears, hoping that one of them would break out of the Pandora's box and sweep him to an unimaginable victory. 
It hasn't, not even the one that trembled for a precarious shining moment on the edge of Mondale's hope chest -the question of Reagan's age. So Mondale is back now with a litany ofall the fears, gambling that where no one of them alone could achieve a breakthrough and avert a Reagan landslide, all of them together might. 
President Reagan, by his nature and posi­tion, has had to move away from most of the fears and divisions. Since he is likely to win, he would have been an idiot to want an election campaign that further would tear up a civiliza­tion over which he will be presiding until 1989-and his party probably even longer. 
Moreover, a sunny, affirmative mood goes with his image and his public outlook on the future. He hao; used them to play the politics of hope and national pride and to appeal espe­cially to the young and even to Gary Hart's "yuppies." 
Despite all the fears and divisions, I suspect that American civilization has moved a bit closer to a state of equilibrium than it did in 1980 -and with it the world hao;, too. lbis edging toward some sort of balanct' -In jobs and production, in arms, In world prestige -is what America's allies and even Its enemies respolld to. It is the stuffofa period of realign­ment. 
(C) 1984,LOSANGELESTIMESSYNDICATE 

In most discussions ofabortion in an atmo­sphere like Notre Dame, two basic ao;sump­tions are usually present. 'Ibe first assumption Is that pro-choice people are the villains in the drama; they are the ones keeping the abortion mllls In business. lbe second assumption is 
Ann Pettifer 
guest column 
that pro-life people are the heroes, waging war on this terrible social evil and that their triumph Is necessary If we are to see any dedine in the abortion statistics. 
Rut what if ao;sumption number one is wide of the mark and assumption number two Is wrong? Is there any evidence that might be marshalled to support the charge that pro-life people actually contribute to keeping the abortion clinics supplied with client? There is. In what follows, I hope to suggest where that evidence Is to be found. 
When reading the literature and watching 
documentaries on abortion, one striking fact emerges -most women having abortions see themselves ao; powerless. Powerlessness produces alienation in relation to self (otherwise why would these women be un­willingly pregnant?) and an extention of that alienation is a psychological numbness towards the embryo. Because a dramatic re­duction in the capacity for ethical nuance is a major result of the poverty of alienation, It would make better sense for those of us who find abortion repellent, to take a good look at the factors that contribute to the alienation and poverty of the women who wind up in abortion clinics; it would be a damn sight more constructive than cursing or patroniz­ing them. 
Terrorizing, deprecating, lecturing or con­sidering women who have abortions has proved the most counter-productive strategy immaginable. It manifestly has not saved fetuses. Why then Is this tactic still pursued? Is there, perhaps, another agenda at work in the right-to-life groups? I think there Is. 
Women and men who are pro-choice, wo-
Make 
My 
Day! 
men and men who are just plain anguished over those abortion statistics, resist the pro­life arguments, in part, because they feel in their bones that the saving offetal life is being used as a shibbeleth, a banner under shich anti-women troops have re-grouped. The pro­lifers are seen as the counter-revolutionaries eager to stem the small progress towards equality that women have begun to make. 
The hate-filled, wildly intemperate in­vective that the pro-life people hurl at the Equal Rights Amendment betrays much, much more than a desire to stamp out abor­tion. It reveals a mindset that would restore women to the hearth -to her angel-in-the­home role -providing consolation in the com­fortless world men create. While the pro-life movement is spearheaded by brutal and un­savory men like Jesse Helms, we cannot pres­clod from a diagnosis ofan anti-woman bias to the campaign. 
When the Women's Pavilion opened In South Bend six years ago, right-to-lifers imme­diately began to organize protests and marches. I asked a Catholic woman, now well into her seventies, Ifwe should be joining any ofthe protests. "Good gracious, no. You don't help those people to power," she replied. Her apostolic simplicity has discerned that "those people" would polarize, not reconcile. Inci­dently, this vigilant old lady has been a crusader all her life; she was active in social justice and liturgical reform movements long before the Vatican stirred Itself from its post­Tridentive somnolence. 
The overwhelming majority of men and many of"their" womenfolk (I use the posses­sive pronoun deliberately) in the pro-life movement are hostile to the emancipation of women. This can be gauged by a very simple litrims test viz. birth control. Scratch a pro­lifer, and you will usually discover a vigorous opponent of birth control. Now the most ef­fective way to stop abortion is to prevent the conception ofunwanted babies. This logic has no appeal for the pro-lifer; he is not daft, he 
Got an opinion, drop us a line 
VIewpoint not only provides you an opportunity to respond to tbe columns, articles and Illustrations printed tbis newspaper, but tbrougb 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you can address Issues wblcb bave not been raised to your satisfaction in tbis newspaper. Viewpoint encourages all of Its readers to fully expore and voice tbelr opinions. Simply sendyour letter toP. 0. Box Q or de/lever It to our office. Letters should be no longer than 150 words In lengtb and guest columns should notexceed600 words. All works must besigned. 
knows .that birth control has always played a major role In the emancipation of women. Without birth control, women are pretty much at the mercy of their fecundity; with It they are quite literally In control, and, alas, women in control are threatening to the patriarchal pro-life male. 
The only way we are going to have any chance ofbeating those alarming abortion sta­tistics is by giving women more equality, not less. Adoption ofthe ERA would be an obvious first step. I long to see the day when women enjoy the respect and equality that Jesus so abundantly afforded them. When Jesus befriended the prostitute Mary Magdalen, he did so in a context of equality. By gJving her the gift ofself-respect, Jesus empowered Mary Magdalen to become a remarkable disciple. When the going got rough, she had the resilience and the intestinal fortitude to stick with Jesus while the chaps fled the scene. That's what equality and self-respect can do fora woman! 
In a world that evinced a mature equality and power-sharing between women and men, the feminine mystique would disappear. We would celebrate the humanity women and men share Instead oftheorizing -always at the expense ofwomen -about the significance of genital and hormonal differences. Women, In such a world, would appropriate their sexuality confidently and this would lead to a surer sense ofcontrol over their fertility. 
This is the sexual revolution which has barely begun, and It is the one that the pro-life male most fears and resents. It Is, however, our best hope for reducing the Incidence of abortion in this country. If the pro-life people continue to have their way, Ifthey are permit­ted to set the political and legal agenda, wo­men will remain powerless and alienated. This would be the perfect recipe for keeping those abortion mills humming-legally or illegally. 
AnnPettifer ts an alumna oftbe Untverstty ofNotre Dame. 

The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor·in·Chlef. . . . . Bob Vonderheide Busmess Manager. . .... Dave Taiclet Managing Ed1tor . . . .. Mark Worscheh Controller. . ..... Maripat Horne 
The ObseNer is the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor . Sarah Ham11ton Advertising Manager . Anne Culligan Untversity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily News Editor ... Dan McCullough Circulation Manager. Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of e1ther institution. The news is reported as Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager. . . ..... Kevin Will1ams accurately and as objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opin1on Sports Ed1tor...... Michael Sullivan Production Manager. . .. Chris Bowler of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column VIewpoint Editor . . . . Dave Grote Project Manager . . Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Editor . . Mary Healy commun1ty. and the free express1on of varymg opinions on campus. through letters, Photo Editor. . . . . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 is encouraged. 


Sports Briefs 
Student basketball ticketapplications and pay­
ment will be collected this week according to the following schedule: juniors and students in their ninth semester or higher, today; sophomores, grad and law students, tomorrow; freshmen, Thursday. Distribution will be from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. each day. -The Obseroer 
The ND basketball teams, both the men's and 
women's, will be having intrasquad games this Sunday, Nov. 11 in the ACC. The women's game will begin at 6:30p.m., and the men will follow at approximately 7:30p.m. Student tickets are on sale nowfor sI at gate 10 of the ACC. -The Obseroer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
today in O'Shaughnessy room 204. -The Obseroer 
The men's volleyball club will be practicing 
Thursday at 7 p.m. in. the ACC pit.-The Obseroer 
The Off-Campus basketball team is form­ing. For information, cal! Tim at 287-1206 by tomorrow. -The Obseroer 
Tuesday, November 6, 1984 -page 8 
A one-on-one basketball tournament is being sponsored by NVA. The tournament will have two divisions for men: those over six feet tall, and those shorter than six feet. Double elimi­nation will be in effect after the second round. The registration deadline at the NVA office is Friday.-The Obseroer 
Mike Golic and Eddie White, deteru;ive end 
for the Irish football team and assistant sports information director, respectively, will be the Guests on "Speaking of Sports" tonight The show will air at a new time, 9 p.m., on WVFI-AM 64. listeners may ask questions or make comments by calling 239-6400. -The Obseroer 
Club and interhall basketballentries are due 
tomorrow. Rosters and proof of insurance should be submitted to the NVA office. Complete entry rules are available at the office. -The Obsemer 
Interhall hockey entries are due at the NVA of­fice tomorrow. Complete entry rules are available at the office.-The Obseroer 
see BRIEFS, page 9 
FormerNIU coach accepts Orlando post 
Associated Press 

ORLANDO, Fla.-Lee Corso, who was released from his contract as head football coach of Northern Illi­nois University earlier yesterday, was named the first head coach of Orlando's entry in the United States Football League. 
"We'll do everything we can to represent you in a major-league fas­hion and... to win," Corso, 49, told a downtown news conference called by Orlando Renegades owner Donald Dizney. 
Corso, who has also served as head coach at Indiana and Lousville, reportedly signed a three-year con­tract amounting to about $1 50,000 in annual salary and bonuses. 
The Ohsen•er Notrt· Dame ottke. locatnl on the third floor of l.a~ortune Studt:nt Ct:ntt:r. acct:pts classifkd adn-rtising from l) a.m. until -i p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Obserl'er Saini \lary's ottke. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepb classifktb from 12:50 p.m. until-~ p.m.. ,\!on­day though hiday lkadline t<>r nt·xr-da1· classitlnb is -~ p.m. All classitkds must ht: prepaid. either in person or hv mail.< hargt: is I 0 l'l'nls per the charac·
Classifieds 
ters er Jay. 
FOUND LADY'S WATCH 11/01 IN FRATERNITIES, SORORITIES, Do you know how Reagan is gorng lo im· ATTENTION PLANT LOVERS OF CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS OR A
FRONT OF CAVANAUGH CALL TOM prove his popularity among Hispanics AMERICA!! THERE WILL BE A
NOTICES 
2466 VERY ENERGETIC INDIVIDUAL TO ~RSONALS ???? I heard lhal he's going to cut a MEETING CONCERN lNG PLANT ACT AS OUR REP FOR OUR A~UAL record wilh Julio Iglesias. ABUSES IN AMERICA AND THE CON­SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO FLOI=IIDA·­SEQUENCES TOMORROW NIGHT IN 
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. LOST! LOST! LOST! ILLINOIS DRIVERS EARN COMMISSIONS AND/OR FREE PREGNANT<' NEED HELP? CALL 234-Kelly Anne, I never knew you were such a THE LOBBY OF HOWARD HALL. DIS­LICENSE LOST AT CORBYS ON HAL· 
TRIP. CALL OR WRITE COASTAL 0363. 24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test bowling goddess-it's roo bad the Roney CUSSION LEADER WILL BE APOLLO 
LOWEEN NIGHT· REWARD IF YOU TOURS P.O. BOX 68 OAK FOREST, IL­available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER bit the dust. It looks like we may be Hall ol BROGIOLI. Hey •II you production 8t8ff P80Piel PICKED IT UP. CALL JOHN LEINEN­U NO IS 60452 312-963-8856. Fame bound. It's lime lor some more New Th..I• • nwnd8tory ciMign IIIM!Ing WEBER AT 2089. Orleans action--the South will never know THANKS TO EVERYBODY WHO MADE 
NEED TICKETS lo Penn Stale. Parents 
tod8y 81 6:30.1t ahould be • rMI rockln" RIDE NEEDED--to and/or from Ann Ar­what hit il! Good luck on Psych lhis week­MY 22ND BIRTHDAY AS TRAUMATIC 
want lo see first NO football game. Hey,
tl,.,., ..,leurehope you can ln8kelt ... LOST: A PAPER ON C.&. PEIRCE WAS bor/Detroit area for lhis weekend Nov be the Freudian complex!! P.S. Snuggles AS POSSIBLE AND THE MOST EN­
they're my pnrents, what can I say. Please 
9-11. calllate--277·4153. sends his best. JOYABLE ONE TOO!!! I NOW KNOW
or ....l LOST ON TUES. LAST WEEK IN CUS­sell me 2 GAs, or I am in the dog's house. 
IT'S POSSIBLE TO HAVE A HEART AT­HING OR THEREABOUTS. PLEASE 
Call Maureen at 1333. 

CALL MIKE 287-8264 OR RETURN TO BJR, your ring has been very happy lor TACK AT 22.1'LL CHERISH EACH AND TYPING PHILOSOPHY DEPT. IF FOUND. IT IS lhe pasl week!!! Thank-you for such a EVERY BUG. CAROLYN, ARE YOU 
THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS A MA­
Jackie Boggs OF EXTREME IMPORTANCE FOR MY wonderful weekend, and we are going lo SURE THERE ARE ONLY SIX IN A 
TURE RESPONSE 

FOR SALE
684-8793 THESIS. have lo improve your average. It looks like PACKAGE? THE JD HIT THE SPOT! 1o.'3 may ba Hall of Fame bound (you can BUT I'M SAVING THE SAMBUKA AT 
MERCY IS FOR THE WEAK 
teach those Southerners how to party!!!) LEAST UNTIL I FORGET THE LIGHTHOUSE AND FETTACINI EXPE·
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. JUSTIN BOOTS BRAND NEW ALL RIENCE', TRACEY AND PATTY. iO
LOST Please help me recover my lost ooooooooooh my, it's that guy!!!! 
LEATHER WOMEN'S 7B $100 RANDY TYPING SERVICE 272-6815 MARYBETH AND BETSY, ALL I CANMechanics of Solids Book. If you have in· 
formation or my book please call 232-VOTE TODAY VOTE TODAY VOTE Chesler,277-6045 
SAY IS BEWARE OF THE 20TH OF
0912 and talk to John K. or leave a TODAY VOTE TODAY 
I don't know exactly whal you mean message.
PICKUP AND DELIVERY 2 TIX PENN ST. 233-2163 OR 234-5778. DECEMBER, IN THE WORDS OF 
............ . ....... about girls with glasses . 
SHAKESPEARE. REMEMBER, ANYTH­
ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC ARMY bul, I guess lhat I always lake mine off. 
Two room ING GOES. LOVE, WANNABREWSKI 
efficiency, furnished, private

················································ ROTC DORM RECRUITING THIS 
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $441hrough entrance, good neighborhood, utilities 
WEEK AND NEXT!!!!! SEE YOUR ATTENTION ALL DESIGN EDITORS
the U.S. government? Gel the facts today' paid 277·3604/288-0955. HEY GIRLS!! WANT TO BE A FULL­
LOST: HP 11C CALCULAtOR!! IF DORM REP. ON HOW YOU CAN APPLY AND ASSIST ANTS 
Call t-312-742-1142 ext. 7316. TIME HOUSEWIFE? COOK AND
FOUND CALL MICHELLE 1283. LOST: FOR 3 AND 2 YEAR ROTC SCHOLAR· There le a 1118nd8tory production d<t­
CLEAN FOR YOUR MAN? MAKE INTEL­
LADIES GOLD WRISTWATCH. IF SHIPS. pertment mMtlng TODAY 81 6:30. You
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81187 LIGENT CONVERSATION AT COCK­
FOUNDCALLAIXA 1283. muetbeth.., TAILPARTIES?CALLPETEAT2704 TO 
Ann Murphy end that" a a thrMt!
VOTE TODAY DON'T FORGET TO FULFILL YOUR DESTINY AS A WO­
LOST-A ROYAL BLUE KNAPSACK IN TICKETS I heard you had an interesting birthday
VOTE TODAY VOTE TODAY MAN. (ONLY THE FERTILE NEED AP· 
THE SOUTH DINING HALL ON WED. experience. I have a birthday present for PLY).
OCT.31 BETWEEN 12NOONAND !P.M. you loo! 
STUDENTS REGISTERED IN ST. JOE 
INSIDE ARE CONTACT LENSES, A secret admirerer IF ITS FROM REGINA AND ITS A RA 
COUNTY, INDIANA: ON-CAMPUS­Need Penn State tix· Student or GA Call MR. GOSALIVESATLYONS
NOTEBOOKS, AND A MARKETING THEN ITS GOT TO BE GOOD. 
Fran2598VOTE TODAY IN STEPAN CENTER 
TEXT, AND AN ECON TEXT. PLEASE .................................. 
OFF-CAMPUS-VOTE IN ASSIGNED When Kim, that Rock of Gibraltar of
CALL TERESEAT2816. I HEAR SMEGMOND IS GOING AFTER 
PRECINCT Need Penn State G.A. tix to help Frank feminism, crumbles, and makes
69 THIS WEEKEND. BE THERE. 

and Judy (My mom and dad) celebrate brownies, ROERIG IS A DOMESTIC! 
............................... 
Lost a silver SEIKO Dual-chronograph PITT CLUB THANKSGIVING BUS SIGN 
VOTE FOR JUSTICE YOU MAY NEED their anniversary. Call Maria 417 4 ROERIG IS A DOMESTIC! 
watch.lf found call Scott at3281. UPS: Wed,_..y, November 7, &-7 ATTENTION!!! SENIORS SEEKING 
IT SOME DAY VOTE DEMOCRATIC ROE RIG IS A DOMESTIC! 
p.m. In ulortune Little Theeter. $45 VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES FOL­························· I'm out herenaked for PENN STATE GA's 
I LOST MY PULSAR MAN'S WATCH round tr111, $30 one W8y. Ou•tlone? LOWING GRADUATION: A representa­
$$$$$$$$ call JOE AT 3554 
GET INTO A TOP LAW SCHOOL. ············································· 
LAST FRIDAY IN THE ROCK'S WEIGHT C.ll A.J. ~t 1657. tive from VIDA Volunteers (Volunteers in Send for free information now. Indicate WAL TEA IS A WIMP! 
ROOM. IF YOU FOUND IT, PLEASE Diocesan Action) will be on campus on name, address, school, year, major, or· Need two ltudent tlcke18 lor the PENN
CALL SAM AT 4665.1 NEED IT !!!I WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7 in lhe Li­
gani2ational affiliation and position. Wrile STATE. II you Cln help piMH Clll Den ......................................
MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM­brary Concourse lo meel wilh students in­to: PASS (Professional/Graduate School 1984-FIRST PRESIDENTIAL VICTORY
811740. 
losl brown alligator skin wallet a healthy PAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGN&--6:30 terested in serving in their program in the Applicants' Support Service), 80 Wall St., PROJECTION BASED ON ABSENTEE
reward offered: please call 234-2275 if P.M., WED., NOV. 7 AND REPEATED Southern Diocese ol Pueblo. More infer· 
Suite 614, NY, NY 10005 need Penn State tickets call Jim 277-3616 BALLOTS! 
you happened lo run across it. ask for THURS., NOV. 8, 118 NIEUWLAND SCI­mation? Contact the esc(239-5293). 
Sorry Walter ... 

....................... ······················· 
P.C. ENCE. P.-.UL REYNOLDS OF CAREER 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL AND PLACEMENT SERVICES. ALL IN­
······················ FOR EXCELLENT TO
SALE: SEATMRS. COKER. 233-7009 
LOST SILVER CHAIN SENTIMENTAL TERESTE:D STUDENTS INVITED. 
BILLY SQUIER CONCERT-WILL SELL RONALD REAGAN IN '84!
VALUE PLEASE CALL 1718 Do you have a gripe about how your Tacos! Tacos! Tacosl for lunch on
AT COST CALL 3480 ASK FOR "C" VICTORY OVER COMMUNISM! 
laundry is done?? Then, attend STOP the Thursday, November 8 al the Center for VICTORY OVER WAL TER-WIMPISM! 
lost gold ring between Zahrri and Lewis 
OMBUDSMAN CAMPUS UFE FORUM. NEED 2 GA & 1 STUD TIX FOR PENN ST MAIL CAMPAIGNS, MAIL CAM­Social Concerns. Be there! 11 :3Q-1 :30on Thurs. night. It has sentimental value if 
CALL LAURA 284-5401 PAIGNS, MAIL CAMPAIGN~:30 .................................................... . 
P.M., WED., NOV 7 AND REPEATED FRIENDS, FOOD, FUN Thursday, No­MY CONGRESSMAN-MY HERO-MY THURS., NOV. 8, 118 NIEUWLAND SCI· vember 8, 11 :30-t :30 at lhe Canter for OMBUDSMAN Social Concerns Tacos, Beans, Rice, and 
found call Kim 4205. 
SUMMER EMPLOYER (I HOPEI!) IS ENCE. PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER CAMPUS UFE FORUM COMING FOR THE PENN. STATE AND PLA.CEMENT SERVICES. ALL IN­Elephant Ears. COME EAT!! GAME. PLEASE SELL ME AT LEAST TERESTED STUDENTS INVITED. 08UD GRIPE NIGHT Mr. Normlln Muller QUOTE OF THE WEEK: "I ONLY DRINK 
TWO GA TIX. I CAN ALSO THROW IN 
WANTED 

Director, St. MlchHI'• Leundry SOME PENN. STATE STUD TIX. THIS INTERESTED IN STARTING A CHAM­HEAVILY ONCE PER WEEK." WediiMdlly, November7 MAN IS THE CHAIRMAN OF THE PIONS C:AMPIAGN OR HAVE ONE I 4:45 to 6:45PM Thul'8dey, November8 HOUSE PRo-LIFE CAUCUS (I'M DES. CAN GET INTO? CALL STEVE AT 4052 HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB 7:00PM, New Orleene Rm FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO-TH 
PERATE I HAD TO MENTION THAn, North Dining H811 
DO YOU SEW? If you do, then I SO DO YOUR PART TO STAMP OUT THANK \IOU ST. JUDE desperately need your help. For more in­ABORTION BY KEEPING THIS MAN fonTIIItion on how you can give a guy in HAPPY. CALL (277·7570) SAVE THE need some help contact: WW at 2035. UNBORNIIIII!f 
L8Fortune Student C8nl8r 8-11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1am 
.............................................................1''
L.ooi<iN.ci.........................................F0R 
THE STANFORD SCANDAL Help Us!

WANTED: ND STUDENTS OF ALL Help! I desperately need a ride lo 
(Substantial Reward Offered) They can't 

MAJORS TO MEET WITH THE NOR­FAME••. FORTUNE ... AND THE EXCITE· Depauw(Greencastle) or Indy Nov.9 Call 
prove anything! It's all circumstantial!

THERN TRUST BANK TO DISCUSS 2 PENN. STATE ST. TICKETS FOR MENT OF HAVING YOUR V:ERY OWN SMC5520 
WE'VE BEEN FRAMED DAMMIT!!! 

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN COM­SALE CALL 277-3679 BY·UNE? OKAY ... THE FORTUNE MERCIAL BANKING, TRUST AND PART IS LIMITED, BUT IF YOU LIKE TO To lhe Profit Farmers: Thanks for harvest­
LOST/FOUND I 
M. Rllm11'8Z 18 1 fool M. Rllmii'8Z le •

BANKING OPERATIONS, SUPERVI· NEED TWO PENN ST. G.A.'S. CALL WRITE, IF YOU ARE ARTISTIC, OR IF Ing our crops and congratulations on win· 
fooll Go C.V81Go Clev...ndl M.

SION, MARKETING AND CUSTOMER TOM AT 1580. YOU SIMPLY HAVE A FUNNY SENSE ning lsi Place. Love KG.LOC,JM 
Rllmii'8ZI8 uglyI Go C.val

LOST! LOST! LOST! SERVICE. WHEN: THURSDAY, NOV. 8, OF HUMOR, THE FAME AND EXCITE­16'" GOLD HERRING-BONE 1184, 7 ·II P.M. WHERE: UNIVERSITY I Need It Bad!!!!! One Penn. St. ticket-stu­MENT ARE YOURS. COME TO THE STEADY EDDY:Why didn't you tell me NECKLACE CLUB, UPPER LOUNGE. WE ARE dent or G.A, Please call Grace-3781. OBSERVER FEATURES MEETING about Bowling Green?Sarah 
DEAR KATIE, HOPE YOUR 21ST IS A SPECIAL ONE! HAVE A GREAT

EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE! LOOKING FORWARD TO TALKING THIS WEDNESDAY (NOV. 7) AT 7 IN BIRTHDAY! LOVE ALWAYS, 
REWARD IF FOUND WITH YOU! HELP! I NEED 4 GA'S FOR PENN THE LITTLE THEATRE OF SMC VOLLEYBALL 1184 DISTRICT CAll1647 STATE -BIG BUCKS $$,CALL LARRY LAFORTUNE AND FIND OUT HOW. NO RUNNER-UP 18-7 
JOE 

PLEASE! I WOULD LIKE A CALC TUTOR FOR 1506 EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. CALC 125, PLEASE CONTACT PAT AT REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED. Congrats to:Mousae-haired Reidy,How 3055 do you pronounce it?Boutton,
································································ 
LOST: A TAN, WHITE. AND OLIVE PENN ST GAs FOR SALE.272-6306 Cawa,Punky,Manwich· JACKET. HAD A FEW TOO MANY IM­WANTED-DEAD OR ALIVE ................................................................ I lost my Pulsar man's welch in the weight Molly,Pearson,Mickey,How 'bout ii-PORTS AT CORBY'S AND LEFT IT Five Design Editors and five assistants to NEED 4 PENN ST TIX··AT LEAST 2 room of lhe Rock last Friday. If you found Brown,One-liner Reicherf,The
Don't Ia! CINDY FEVER die!!!!! Join the
THERE THURS.•OCT.11. IT MEANS show up at lhe Tuesday prOduction GAS. DAVE 1753 OR STEVE 1695 It, PLEASE call Sam at 4665 !!I! Woz,Where's your contact ALOT TO MEl PLEASE CALL JIM AT meeting at 6:30. ................................................................ Moira?,Diana,Jenny and our main man­
few, lha proud. !he CINDY LOVERS! 
se·;:·PAi:i'i··Niiieo.PENN·s:r;:;:·E"·G;::s Ok, I know it was all in fun, and you prob­
3444!!1 Brian Goralski 
We like Reagan 
................................................................ PART TIME HOSTESS FOR EXECU­OR STUD TIX.CAU KATHY 4344SMC. ably didn't mean any harm by it Besides, 
We like fate. 
LOST: GOLD TIE BAR BETWEEN TIVE COCKTAIL LOUNGE MONDAY EVERYBODY would like to have a Texas It's been a great year We've had lot's of NORTH DINING HALL AND GRACE THROUGH THURSDAY FROM 5:00 TO H;;;;;iio;;;;~i;;;v·~;;;;;;·2s;~·;i~-;~·p;;~ We'll all glow licence plate which says NOTA OM hang­lun Though lhe seniors are leaving They'll HALL ON THE TUESDAY BEFORE 7:30 P.M. KNOWLEDGE OF BAR St. Call Patty at SMC5254 by'88 ing on !heir wall. But I really need it back, always be no. 1 Bur to alllhe resl Who are 
SENTIMENTAL APPLY so If you borrowed it from my HONDA lasl VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL HOWARD JOHNSON'S S2939 U.S. 31 NEED 1 PENN ST tix.Piease call Friday, please call Sam )4665 NO QUES­your skin Love,Willy and Dilly P.S.We are KEVIN AT 4009, OR 239-7672. NO. SOUTH BEND, IN. all Wisconsin Sleepers 
BREAK. GREAT HELPS IN PERSON TO: all like kin Watch out Gri22lies We're after 
SMC5520 TIONS ASKED !!II 
...............+............................................. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 6, 1984 -page 9 
Soccer 
continuedfrom page 12 
that is more extensive than any pro­gram a Notre Dame team has ever faced. The coach's motivation for such training, he said, is to improve the team now so that it will he ready for an upgradcd schedule next year. 
Most of this season's players will he rcturning for next year's cam­paign, and Gral·e has an excellent foundation on which to build. 
"What we have to recognize is that we can he hettcr," Grace said, "and, more importantly, we have to recognizc what we have to do to get 
better. Everybody has a desire to win; what we have to do is establish with these boys the desire to do the training to win. '!bat's the project right now." 
The Irish coach certainly has his work cut out for him, as he must find a replacement for seniors Rich Her­degen, who led this year's squad in scoring with 34 points, and Dominick Driano, who recorded 23 defensive saves from his sweeper­back position. 
Herdegen, who now is seeking a professional contract, finsihed his collegiate career in second place on the all-time Notre Dame scoring list with I 3 7 points in four seasons. 
Second-leading scorer Pat Szanto, who had 28 points this year to make him sixth on the all-time Irish 
scoring list, will be back next year for his third season. Dave Miles, an­other productive player on this year's front line, also will be back. 
Most midfielders and defenders will return next fall, and goalkeeper Jim Flynn is expected to fill the va­
c;;ncy left by Mark Steranka and Dan, Coughlin. 
"The bottom line reads," accor­ding to Grace, "at the end of the 
year, we were fighters .... Next year's success is dictated by what we do now." 
If the winter and spring practices go as well as Grace hopes, and if his recruiting is successful, next year's success may be something to see. 
Sports Staff Meeting 
There will be a mandatory meeting of all mem­bers of the Observer sports staff on tonight at 6:30 
p.m. in the Observer office. Anyone who would like to write sports for the rest of the year must attend. If, for some very good reason, you cannot make the meeting, contact Mike Sullivan before the meeting. The coverage of winter sports will be discussed as well as improvements in the current coverage. 

dependable new downtown Chicqo service. TO DOWNTOWN CHICAGO 
LEAVE  LEAVE  LEAVE  LEAVE  
OSCEOLA  BIG BEAR  NOTRE  SOUTH BEND  
OFFICE  TOW N & COUNT RY  DAME  AIRPORT  
5:10A.M.  5:45A.M.  6:00A.M.  6:15A.M.  
ARRIVE  ARRIVE  ARRIVE  ARRIVE  
MIDWAY  ART  MARSHALL  WATER TOWER  
AIRPORT  INSTITUTE  FIELD'S  PLACE  
8:15A.M.  8:50A.M.  9:00A.M.  9:15A.M.  
FROM DOW NTOWN CHICAGO  
LEAVE  LEAVE  ARRIVE  
MCDONALD'S  MIDWAY  SOUTH BEND  
220 N. MICHIG AN  AIRPORT  AIRPORT  
6:00P.M.  6:45P.M.  8:45P.M.  
ARRIVE  ARRiVE  ARRIVE  
NOTRE  BIG BEAR  OSCEOLA  
DAME  TOWN & COUNTRY  OFFICE  
9:00P.M.  9:15P.M.  9:10P.M.  

Ride Uniled Umo to Midway Airport and Downtown Chic:aao Same Day Return 
CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR UNITED UMO 
10844 U.S. 20 (one and one·half miles east of Binersweet) Osceola, Indiana 46.';61 
Four-way tie in NFC East 
Redskins overcome Atlanta, 27-14 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -joe Theismann passed for one touchdown and ran for another and john Riggins hulled over for two short scores as the Washington Redskins beat the At­lanta Falcons, 27-14, last night and forced an unprecedented four-way tie for first place in the NFC East. 
But it wasn't easy for the Redskins, who broke a two-game losing streak and joined the St. Louis Cardinals, New York Giants and Dallas Cow­boys at the top of their conference with a 6-4 record. It was the first time since the NFL went to 28 teams in 1976 that four teams had been tied this late in the season. 
After a scoreless first period, Washington took a 14-0 lead in the second on 1-yard TO runs by Theis­mann and Riggins. But, the Redskins lost the lead almost as quickly, giving up touchdowns to Atlanta late in the first half and early in the third period as the RFK stadium crowd of 
51,301 booed loudly. 
lben, with the game tied at 14-14 late in the third quarter, Redskins linebacker Mel Kaufman hit Atlanta quarterback Mike Moroski, who had replaced an injured Steve Bartkowski in the second period be­hind the line ofscrimmage. 
Moroski fumbled and Neil Olkewicz recovered on the Atlanta 
32. Seven plays later, Riggins hulled over from the one and it was 20-14 ­Mark Moseley missed the extra point. The TO was the 105th of Rig­gins' career, tying hfm with Don Hutson on the all-time NFL list. 
The Redskins defense, which had seven sacks on the night, held and Washington came right back, mixing Riggins' running and lbeismann's quick out passes. The touchdown came on a slant-in from 7 yards out to Calvin Muhammad at the end of a 12-play, 65-yard drive that consumed the first six minutes of the fourth quarter. 
Atlanta, which dropped its fourth straight game and fell to 3-7, trailed 14-7 at halftime. But Gerald Riggs, who became the first back since Marcus Allen in last season's Super Bowl to rush for 100 yards against Washington, blasted over from 10 yards out at the end of the Falcons' first second-half possession to tie the 
score at 14-14. 
Riggs, who finished the night with 134 yards in 27 carries, gained 49 of the 79 yards on the drive. 

Health a factor in decision 
McKay resigns as Buccaneer coach 
Assodated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -John McKay, the 
only coach in the nine-year history 
of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, an­
nounced yesterday he will resign at 
the end ofthe season. 
His resignation leaves only Tom Landry of the Dallas Cowboys, Don Shula of the Miami Dolphins and Chuck Noll of the Pittsburgh Steelers as coaches with longer careers with the same National Foot­ball League team. 
McKay, who amassed a 127-40-8 record during 16 years with South­ern California, will become the Bucs' president at the end of the 1984 season, the club announced. 
At Southern Cal, McKay led the Trojans to nine Pac-8 champion­ships and to eight Rose Bowls. But with the Bucs, McKay's record is only 41-85-1, including a 3-7 mark this season. 
His Bucs have made the playoffs three of the past five years, but have won only five oftheir last 26 games. 
McKay cited the team's perfor­mance and his health in his resigna­tion to owner Hugh Culverhouse. The 61-year-old McKay underwent cataract surgery on his right eye Sept. 19 and said he would have a there yet," said McKay. "In light of similar operation on his left eye at my_continuing problems with my vi­the end of the season. 
"Recent weeks have shown that sion, I told Mr. Culverhouse today while I believe we are fairly close to that I believe we need someone else where we want to be, we ace not to coach the team next season." 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 8 
The NVA "Turkey Shoot" will be held Nov. 13 and 15. The team target-shooting competition is open to teams of two men and two women each. Equipment and supervision will be provided. The deadline to reserve a time at the NVA office Is Friday.­
The Obseroer 
Basketball and hockey officials are needed 
for the interhall season. Anyone interested should apply at the NVA office. -The Obseroer 
Squash and table tennis tournaments are being sponsored by NVA. Both tournaments are open to all students, fac­ulty and staff. The registration deadline is tomorrow.-The Obseroer 
~ 


Public service announcement by the Governor's Task Force to Reduce ~vlng 41nd The ObHrver 

The Observer Tuesday, November 6, 1984-page 10 
Suspension of 21 days pending 
McEnroe takes Stockholm prize 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden -John McEnroe shrugged off a pending suspension of at least 2 l days and blitzed Mats Wilander after a second set lapse, 6-2, 3-6, 6-2 yesterday to win the 531 S,OOO Stockholm Open­Scandinavian Championships. 
It was the third time McEnroe has won this coveted title, the only offi­cial national indoor championship recognized by the International Tennis Federation. McEnroe also won in 1978 and 1979, but then missed his chance to win an un­precedented three straight titles when Bjorn Borg beat him in the 
1980 final. 
McEnroe, who was fined $2,100 for "unsportsmanlike" conduct in a turbulent semifinal against Swede Anders Jarryd to exceed the $7,500 limit, behaved better yesterday. 
But the American's behavior was not perfect. He was warned once by the umpire in the second set for ver­bal abuse. 
McEnroe, the world's top-ranked player, improved his 1984 won-lost record to 75-2 after yesterday's vic­tory before another sellout crowd at the Royal Tennis Hall and millions watching on TV in several countries. 
The Wimbledon and U.S. open champion's only setbacks this year came in the French Open final last June, when Ivan Lend! rallied to win 
in five sets, and in the first round of the ATP championships at Kings Is­land, Ohio, last August, when Vijay Amritraj of India stunned the New Yorker. The victory also evened 
McEnroe's head-to-head record 
against Wilander. The defending 
champion and No. 3 seed here, 
Wilander held a 3-2 edge over the American going into the final after beating the left-bander on three dif­ferent surfaces -clay, hardcourt and grass -last year. 
In the semifinals Sunday, McEnroe knocked out fourth-seededJarryd of Sweden 1-6, 7-6, 6-2 while Wilander outlasted No.2 seedJimmy Connors 6-7,6-3,6-3. 

Competition continues today 
Allen, Brown score boxing upsets 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOUS -Darin Allen of Columbus, Ohio, and Obie Beard of Jackson, Tenn., produced upset vic­tories in the second round of the 1984 United States-Budweiser Boxing Championships yesterday. 
Allen outpointed 1984 Golden Gloves and U.S. Junior champ Mylon Watkins of Tacoma, Wash., in the second round of their 147-pound match. 
The five-day competition con­tinues today with quarterfinal action at the Indiana Convention Center. 
Allen, who won the Eastern Olym­pic Trials earlier this year, matched Watkins blow for blow and was able to capitalize on several of Watkins' exchanges. In the second round, Watkins was penalized a point for ducking his head, which greatly aided Allen in notching the decision. 
Watkins was considered one of 
the early favorites in his division 
after moving up from the welter­
weight class where he lost to gold 
medalist Mark Breland in the Olym­
pic Trials. 
Beard, the younger brother of professional boxer Jackie Beard, defeated 1984 National Golden Gloves champ Marvin Chambers of St. Louis on a disqualification. 
NFL 
Standings 
NATIONALFOOTBALLLEAQUE NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
bat  
w  L  T  Pet- PF  PA  
St. Louie  6  4  0 .600  288 2211  
N.Y. Giants  6  4  0 .600  194 193  
Washington Dallas  6 6  4 4  0 .600 0 .600  257 194 186 192  
Philadelphia  4  5  1 .450  176 200  
Centnll  
Chicago Detroit  7 3  3 6  0 .700 1 .350  221 149 191 244  
Tampa Bay Green Bay Minnesota  3 3 3  7 7 7  0 .300 0 .300 0 .300  187 251 201 213 197 243  
w.­ 
San Francisco  9  1  0 .900  270 160  
L.A. Rams  6  4  0 .600  200 183  
New Orleans  4  6  0 .400  199 228  
Atlanta  3  7  0 .300  198 239  
AMERICAN CONFERENCE  
EMI  
w L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Miami  10  0  01.000  336 141  
New England  6  4  0 .600  214 235  
N.Y. Jets  8  4  0 .600  238 248  
Indianapolis  3  7  0 .300  164 266  
BuMalo  0  10  0 .000  153 284  
Cantnol  
Pittsburgh  6  4  0 .600  235 187  
Cincinnati  3  7  0 .300  180 220  
Cleveland  2  8  0 .200  129 176  
Houston  0  10  0 .000  123 300  
w.­ 
Denver  8  1  0 .900  211 137  
S..tlle  8  2  0 .800  2811  156  
L.A. RMiefa  7  3  0 .700  240 207  
Kan81U1 City  5  5  0 .600  172 221  
San Diego  5  5  0 .500  269 252  

Y-day'• "-ulta 
Washington 27, Atlanta 14 
Beard, who recently placed Les Fabri of Seattle, Wash., the second in the U.S. Junior Champion­1984 Golden Gloves champ who has ships, won his 132-pound fight moved to battamweight action here, when Chambers was disqualified at scored his second victory of the 
2:45 ofthe third round for excessive tournament. The 5-foot-4 Fabri deci­rule infractions. sioned Ivory Courtney ofAtlanta. 
N E 


EIGHT 
50 Years Of Opportunity With HUGHES HELICOPTERS, INC. 
At Hughes Helicopters, our cooperative dedication to excellence has. produced a tradition of Industry firsts. For more than 50 years, we have made commitments to developing the world's most superior helicopters and ordnance systems. Little wonder that the archives of aviation history prominently include our name. 
Supported by the technological resources and strengths of our renowned parent company, McDonnell Douglas, Hughes Is gathering ever­increasing impetus. We're a symbol of achievement. We produce the world's most advanced military helicopter, the AH-64A, are trailblazing the develop­ment of the U.S. Army's Innovative LHX "family of light helicopters" program, and continue our performance In a tradition of stable growth. 
Dynamic opportunities are currently available for graduates with a degree In Electrical, Elect1ronlcs, Mechanical, Industrial, Manufacturlna, Aerotech­nology Engineering or Computer Science. Let Hughes Helicopters lead you to a place where challenge and resources meet ... either here at our state-of-the-art Mesa, Arizona facility, site of our Advanced Development Center and the new LHX program, or in our Culver City, California head­quarters. 
Team up with a winner! Please send your resume or letter of qualifications to: HUGHES HELICOPTERS, INC., College Relations, 5000 E. McDowell Road, Mesa, AZ 85205. We are an equal opportunity employer M/F /H/V. U.S. Citizenship Is required_ 
For Future Job Opportunities Call Our 24-Hour Job Hot lines: Engineering: (602) 897-0900 General : (602) 891-31 00 

Hughes Helicopters, Inc. 
Subsidiary of McDonnell Douglas
t; 
T.M. 
Dedlcatect to Excellence 

T0 day____________________
r_u_e_s_d_ay_._N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_6_,_1_9_8_4__P_a_g_e_l_l 
-

Doonesbury 
ACROSS 1 Beer 
Ingredient 5 Rublk's­9 Toll and 
struggle 14 Not ashore 15 Right on! 16 Daft 17 Book leal 19 Cabbages 20 Gives a 
hand 21 Fighter 
of yore 23 Precipitous 25 People of 
Nigeria 26 Textbook 29 Renounce 
34 Invisible 
emanation 35 Decrees 36 Bird no 
more 37 Travel systems 41 Fedora or fez 42 Saying nothing 
YO() 8f:!7tl!. E£l/E'rf.ff.l IT's t:l£C7lON a4Y.'AN/)61£55 Mli5 RNAUY /?J36157C/i!EI) 
/ THIS Yl3AR I 

Berke Breathed 
... v.t"~ Pf>IW IN 'M POI.i.5 ... ANOTHER 8fi8Y Pfi1PI.£fl ON ti'IY Tl~ IN fRONT Of 1Hf. Mf.fllli ... ANfl b€.01?6€. 1111/.i. l?(ff.Rf<W W Mf. 115 All '085f.QII/OI/5 l!!Jel?lll PeON ~ 
i ,,~~ ~~~~~...:_,~ 
The Daily Crossword 
Garry Trudeau 
The Far Side 
43 Plneor yew 44 Doesn't get upon time 46 Statements 
of belief 48 Steep flax 49 Egg white 51 Lares and ­
55 FIRets 59 Irregularly notched 
60 Not defi­nite 62 Cowboy, 
for one 63 Batty 64 Plenty for 
poets 65 Addicts 66 Augury 67 Feathers 
DOWN 1 -Hari 2 Conditional 
sale sign 3 Rents 4 Amulet 5 Aircraft 
for short 
6 Official 
decree 7 Purse 8 Looked 
over 9 Prefer 10 Type of 
computer 11 Romantic 
isle 12 Singletons 13 Remainder 18 Punta 
del­22 Mountains In Utah 
24 Grouping 
together 26 Trails 27 Pastoral 28 Seeing red 30 Matted 
cotton 31 "That's-" 32 Shaded 33 lets up 35 Central 
points 38 College 
In NJ 39 Adhesive 40 Repeated 45 Pencil 


ending 46 Box 47 Hudson's 
child heroine 50 Oldtlme weapon 
51 Where Machu Plcchu is 
l'VCGOTTO 

AN[)IVHAT
STAIUGeTTING 
A VOTER.
tJP CARLI/3.1?..

\ r.; TtJRN·()(JT fl£ HAO, TOM!
1::~ 

1 
Gary Larson 
52 God of love 53 Slangy negative 54 WWII town 56 Delauren­
tils 57 Acknowledge 58 Stitched 61 Letters on 
a bill 
Monday's Solution 


Campus 
•12 
p.m. -Kellogg Seminar (Brown Bag), "Society, The Individual, & The Imagination," Kevin Hennelly, Intra-American Development Bank, Washington, D.C. & Guest Scholar, Room 131 Decio Hall. 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Analysis & Modeling of Chemical Vapor Deposition," Prof. Klaus Jensen, University of Minnesota, Sponsored by Chemical Engineering Dept., Room 356 Fitzpatrick. 

•4 
p.m.-Lecture, Donald Clark, Chairman, Pres!· dent & Chief Executive Officer, Household Inter­national, Sponsored by Finance Club, Hayes Healy Auditorium. 

•4:30p.m.-Biology
Seminar, "Predator-Prey Sys­tems in the Great lakes," Dr. james Kitchell, Uni­versity ofWisconsin-Madison, Room 278 Galvin. 

•6:30 
p.m. -Meeting, Senior Advisory Council, Uttle Theatre, LaFortune. 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 p.m.-FUm, "From Here to Eter­nity," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Cul­tural Arts Commission. 

•7 
p.m. -College Bowl, Demonstration Match, Room 303 Haggar College Center (SMC), Sponsored by Student Activities (SMC), Free. 

•7:30 
p.m.-Tuesday Night FUm Series, "Lost Horizon," Annenberg Auditorium. •7:30p.m.-BillySquierConcert,ACC, 512.50. 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Mosquito Reproduction & Hormones: It Pays To Be Ignorant-Sometimes," Dr. Morton Fuchs, ND, Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by College of Science. 

•8 
p.m. -California Club Meeting, Discussion of Christmas Charter Flight, Little lbeatre , LaFortune, Sponsored by California Club. 


TV Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 
22 7:30p.m. 16 8:00p.m. 34 9:00p.m. 34 10:00p.m. 34 
ll:OOp.m. 16 22 28 34 11:30p.m. 16 22 2:00a.m. 22 
Decision '84 Campaign '84 -Election Night NBC Election Returns Nova Frontline The Constitution-That Delicate Bai­ance Newscenter 16 22 Eyewitness News Newswatch 28 Movie · My Favorite Brunette NBC Election Returns ( con't.) Campaign '84 -Election Night Nightwatch 


T~ rip-roaring comedy WJw that ""ill koock you outolyour ~! 
Coming to Notre Dame 
~~ 
Nov.10, 8 p.m. Washington Hall ~Touring 
~.,.., ..,Company
TICKETS available at SAB Record Store $5.00 


... 
Check it out in Lafortune I 
SPONSORED BY THE S.A.B. 

~----------------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 6, 1984-page 12

S~orts 

The Observer/VIc Guarino 
Notre Dame's volleyball team played well at the University of Pittsburgh tournament over the weekend, but lost two of three games against the tougher competition. Eric Scheuermann details the weekend's action below. 
Maternowski impressive 
ND soccer season a success as Irish stood up to tougher competition 
ByPHILWOLF 
AsststantSports Edttor 
Last Thursday afternoon, the Notre Dame soccer team ended its season with a 6-4 overtime victory at Valparaiso. Now, first-year head coach Dennis Grace has a chance to look back over his inaugural season at the Irish helm. 
"Overall, everything was fine," Grace says. "We could have done better, but we didn't do badly. In fact, we did well at times, and at times we were a brilliant team." 
The Irish completed 1his, their eighth season, with a record of 12-6­2, which is not as good as the team's record has been in the past few years. The record still is impressive, though, in light of the fact that the Irish played what Grace called "the toughest schedule in Notre Dame soccer history." 
The Irish opened the season with three consecutive victories at home, downing Indiana-Purdue/Fort Wayne, Purdue and Louisville. The team then took its show on the road to defeat Bethel and Northwestern, while coming away with a tie against Michigan State. 
The Michigan State game, accor­ding to Grace, was represt~ntative of all of the games the Irish had played to that point. Although Notre Dame had established the lead at 1-0 and 2-1, the Irish could not put the game out of the Spartans' reach, and even­tually they had to settle for the tie, 2-2. In the previous four games, the 

Irish do well in Pittsburgh tourney 
ByERICSCHEUE~ 
Sports Writer 
Coming into the University of Pit­tsburgh tournament over the weekend, the Notre Dame women's volleyball team was riding high on a four-game winning streak. And al­though the Irish lost two out of the three matches they played, they continued to play good volleyball. 
Notre Dame started off the tourn­ament by playing a tough Penn State team that was ranked No. 7 in the nation. The Irish lost in three straight games, 1-15, 7-15 and 1-15, but coach Art Lambert was pleased with the team's effort. 
"We had a lot of side outs against Penn State," said Lambert, "and we stretched them to an hour and 15 minutes despite being swept." 
The Irish next faced host Pit­
tsburgh, who would go on to win the 
tournament with an upset win 
against Pie Nittany Lions. Although they played well against the Pan­thers, they could not holu the lead during the contest, and ended up losing by scores of 4-1 5, 10-15 and 11-15. 
With their record now standing at 11-11, the Irish came back to capture a tough match against the Tar Heels of North Carolina. After losing the first game, Notre Dame put it all together to win the match, 12-15,15-9,15-12,12-15 and 15-12. With the victory, the team was able to capture a third place in this com­petitive tournament. 
Senior Josie Maternowski was one member of the team who stuck out with her very effective play during the three games. 
"Josie played as well as I've seen her play," said Lambert. "She was as consistent in this tournament as she has been all year." 
Besides taking home the third place honors, the Irish came away with some bruises. Senior Mary Jo Hensler sprained her ankJe over the weekend, and some other players suffered minor injuries. The team will have two weeks to get back to 100 percent, as it will not play again until the North Star Conference tournament. 
Lambert is pleased with the way the team is performing now, and hopes for more improvement. 
"I think these girls are making good progress," says Lambert. "Our defense is a lot better, and we are playing tougher. We're still a young team, and we make some mistakes, but our mistakes are coming with less frequency." 
With the two weeks fret~. the Irish will have time to work toward the tournament. The team finished with a 7-1 conference record, so a strong showing is hoped for. Perhaps the tournament will also give the Irish a chance for revenge against Loyola, the only team in the conference to defeat the Irish. 

One of best years ever 
ND field hockey completes season 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Wrl ter 
This weekend the Notre Dame 
field hockey team completed one of 
its most successful seasons ever. 
Friday through Sunday the Irish competed in the St. Louis Tourna­ment, in which they notched, en 
route to a third place finish, two vic­tories, a tie and a loss. To open the t~urney, Notre Dame faced 
nationally-ranked Southern Illinois, played Friday morning at 8 a.m. on a 
... 
frozen artificial surface in St. Louis. The Irish, according to Notre Dame 
coachJill Lindenfeld, "played an out­standing defensive game" while holding So. Illinois to a scoreless tie, 0-0. 
Later that evening they squared off against Da'yton. On the strength of goals by Corinne DiGiacomo, 
Molly McCabe and Christina Wein­mann, among others, the Irish stearnrolled past Dayton by the score of6-1. 
Saturday the Irish had to face off against the University of Louisville. Notre Dame propelled past the Car­
dinals via Corrine DiGiacomo's two goals, Molly McCabe's score, and the 
stingy goaltending of Patti Gallag­her. The final score was Notre Dame 3, Louisville 1. 
The Irish then advanced into the quarter finals where they faced an­other nationally ranked team, South­west Missouri State. This time the opposition proyed too much as 
Southwest Missouri State shutout the Irish 3-0. 
Lindenfeld said this season was a very successful one,said she, " this year the players acquired a winning attitude they also vastly improved their ball handling skills." 
In terms of wins and losses there can be no question that this was a profitable year for the Irish field 
hockey team as they compiled their best record in years, 15-5-2. The Irish will now have a few months off until they will begin training for an­
other season of field hockey, a season which they hope will em­ulate the successes ofthis year. 

Irish had escaped with narrow vic-where we played as well as tories over teams that Grace said anybody," the coach said. "We were Notre Dame should have all over Indiana and Marquette. Mar-dominated. quette didn't even cross midfield un-
The Irish then were able to defeat til they had their first goal. Our Illinois at home to improve their entire performance against Akron record to 6-0-1 before losing a game. was outstanding." 
A trip to Bloomington, Ind., to The Irish were not able to keep up play the Hoosiers of Indiana Univer-the level ofplay the following week, sity was next on the schedule. The however, as they fell at Wisconsin, Hoosiers, two-time defending na-3-0. tional champions, had been ranked Notre Dame then was able to No. 1 since the beginning of the come back from a 3-2 deficit to beat season, an honor they still have not Wisconsin-Platteville, 4-3. The Irish relinquished. came from two goals behind to tie 
Grace's team was ready for the big John Carroll before falling, 3-2, with game, however, as the Irish coach only 1:08 remaining. looked for a victory over his alma Finally, the Irish held on to beat mater. Notre Dame scored first in Valparaiso with two goals in the contest and held on to a 1-1 tie at. overtime to end the season 12-6-2. halftime. The Hoosiers overcame "What I really will cherish," Grace the less-talented Irish squad in the said, "was our ability, finally, at the second half, though, for a 5-1 vic-end of our year, against Platteville, tory. John Carroll and Valpo not to roll 
Despite the inspired play they dis-over and play dead. (Earlier in the played in the first half against season), we didn't have that poten­lndiana, the Irish stumbled in their tial to rally, and I think in the last next outing at Loyola, escaping with three games we did." Grace still a scoreless tie. Although Loyola was pointed to some things that the team under .500 at the time, the school did not achieve which he wished it finished the season with an impres-had. sive record, according to Grace. "We didn't beat any teams that 
Notre Dame improved its record were better than us," Grace la­to 9-1-2 with three victories in mented, "which is something you which the team outscored its oppo-have to do." nents, 18-4, before taking to the road Grace continually cited one par-for another big game. ticular reason for the team not per-
The St. Louis Billikens, ranked forming up to its potential in the eighth in the nation at the time, were second halfofthe season. He said the ready for Notre Dame's invasion. team was not as cohesive as he The Irish rode home on the bus with would have liked it to be. a 3-1 defeat and a 9-2-2 record. "We never really came together as 
After defeating a strong team from a unit off the field," he said. "There Central Michigan, the Irish had an were a number of reasons why the excellent opportunity to prove team and I were not as close as we themselves able of competing with would like. Mostly, it was my fault. the top talent in the region. With "When things started going bad, games against Marquette and Akron when the trend started to turn sour, scheduled within three days ofeach when things started happening so other, Notre Dame had a chance to that we needed a lot more cohesive­defeat the third-and fourth-ranked ness to rally around, we didn't have teams in the Mideast. it," Grace explained. "There were 
Victories over the Warriors and things we could have done to have the Zips probably would have that cohesiveness." guaranteed a spot for the Irish in the The Irish coach always has been NCAA postseason tournament, as quick to blame himselffor the unity Evansville, then ranked second in problems his team displayed this the region, fell in two games that season. He claimed the main reason same week. problems developed was his unwill-
Marquette rejected Notre Dame, ingness to discipline his players off 4-1, in Milwaukee, and a single goal the field in the first halfofthe season. at 79:05 by the Zips was enough to He said taking over for former coach overcome the Irish on Alumni Field. Rich Hunter on the eve of the new With a record of 10-4-2 and losses to season put him in an uneasy situa­the top teams in the reagion, Notre tion, in which he wanted to be care­Dame's tournament hopes were ful not to alienate himself from his destroyed. players. 
Despite the losses, Grace cited the Now, Grace is turning his energy games with Indiana, Marquette and to recruiting and training for next Akron as some of the high points in season. The Irish veterans will begin the season. a winter training program next week 
"I felt that in some games there see SOCCER, page 9 were 20-to 30-minute stretches 
Basketball Ticket Distribution 

Today-Juniors and students in ninth semester or higher 
Tomorrow-Sophomores, grad students and law students 
Thursday -Freshmen 
3 to 8 p.m. each day 








