Student Senate-page 3 

VOL XIX, NO. 23 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1984 

Hyde responds to Cuomo policy talk 
By DAN McCULLOUGH separation of church and state. News liditor Quoting Cuomo's speech, Hyde said, "The claim that American reli· In a speech at the Notre Dame gion has always been 'intensely Law School yesterday, Rep. Henry private ... between the individual llyde ( R.-111.) responded to a speech and God' would 'surely come as given two weeks ago by New York news to John Winthrop and the Governor Mario Cuomo in which Pilgrims, to Jonathan Edwards, to Cuomo clarified his public abortion the Abolitionists, to Lincoln, to fif. policy. teen generations of the black 
flyde, one of the most vocal pro­Church, and not least to American life advocates on Capitol Hill, Catholics taught by the magisterial disagreed with Cuomo's assertion John Courtney Murray, architect of that a Catholic public office holder the Vatican Council's Declaration on had to bear a special responsibility Religious Liberty ...." to undertake or create conditions "Religion and politics have always where the plurality may hold beliefs been mixed in America, if what we different from Catholic ones · are talking about is religious values sometimes contadictory to them, and public policy. What the sut·h a..~ when the laws protect Founders (of the Constitution) people's right to choose abortion. . wisely understood was that religious 
institutions should not become un­
In his speet·h, Hyde said , "The necessarily entangled with the poli· principled resistance to 'imposing tical process ...." one's religious views' on a pluralistic "The Constitutional separation of society is a favorite ploy of the 'I'm church and state is thus a question of 
personally opposed to abortion but institutional distinctiveness and fii. ...' school of politician. Their di· tegrity. It was never intended to rule lemma is that they want to retain religiously-based values out oforder their Catholk credentials but realize in the public arena. Yet that Is that In today's Democratic Party to precisely what some among us be upwardly mobile is to be very would do: disqualify an argument or liberal, and to be very liberal is to be public policy from constitutional very feminist, and to be a feminist is consideration if its roots are to be for abortion. I won't quarrel 'religious."' with their game plan, but their Hyde further denounced rationale is absurd." Cuomo's policies as a Catholic 
'!here were several references to public office-holder by quoting a let· Cuomo's speech, which was given ter sent by Cuomo to Archbishop Sept. 13 In Wa..o;hington Hall. Philoso· John Roach, who was at the time phy Department Chairman Father president of the National Confer­Richard McBrien, who invited ence of Catholic Bishops. The letter Cuomo to give his speech at Notre said, "As an American and a Catholic Dame, was seated behind Hyde as he I am proud of you. It would have spoke, as wa..o; University President been easy to compromise your posi­Father Theodore Hcsburgh. law tion so as to offend no one. You Professor Douglas Kmiec invited chose Instead to tend to your duties Hyde to speak at Notre Dame. Hyde as sheperds, to teach the moral law was speaking as part ofthe Thomas). as best you can. You can do no more. White Center on l..aw and Govern· Our Church has sometimes been ment lecture series. accused of not having spoken out 
Hyde's speech. "Keeping God in when it might have. Now you, our 
the Closet: Some Thoughts On the Bishops, show the courage and Exorcism of Religious Values From moral judgement to meet this issue Public life," mainly addressed the the popular controversy of the see HYDE, page 3 


These Fisher Hall residents seem to enjoy the mal game of touch football. The tlays for such combination of late afternoon fall sun and the outdoor activity are numbered as summer offi· South Quad sod as the backgound for an lnfor-dally came to an end last Saturday. 
Rowley widow files for bankruptcy 
By MARGARET FOSMOE 

StaffReporter 
Corby Tavern and other assets of C.T.l., Inc., were ffied under Chapter I I of the Indiana state bankruptcy code Friday, by Rose Rowley, acting president of C.T.l. 
The action will allow C.T.l. time to develop a plan for repayment of debts, according to Joseph Bradley, the attorney representing the corpo­ration in the bankruptcy action. 
The action came one day after the bar reopened following payment of nearly $13,000 in back taxes. The operation of the bar has not and will not be affected by the bankruptcy action, said Bradley. 
Filing for bankruptcy means "all debts owed (by the corporation) as of Friday are frozen and will be paid at a later date," said Bradley. 
Filing for bankruptcy prevents creditors from taking action against 
C.T.l. until a repayment plan is sub­mitted, he said. 
The action also prevents the In· diana Alcoholic Beverage Commission from revoking Corby's liquor Uscense, he said. Friday the 
A.B.C. attempted to revoke the bar's liscense but was halted by the bank· ruptcy action. 
Creditors have filed petitions totalling more than S25,000 against the estate of Harold Rowley Jr., the owner of the corporation who was murdered in his home Aug. I. 
Flllng for bankruptcy "gives the corporation a little amount of time to submit a reorganization plan which we think is practical," said Bradley. He estimates such a plan will take six months to a year to develop. 
"This was the best way to protect the only real asset of C.T.I., which is Corby's," he said. 
Sex discrimination plays a part in Notre Dame admissions 
Editor's Note: This Is part two of afive-part seriesfocusing on the issue of sex discrimination at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Today's article studies the issue of academics; tomorrow's wtll look at another side of the uni­llersity experience, social life. 
By KEI111 HARRISONJr. 
Copy Editor 
Notre Dame ha..o; been a co· educational institution for more than 12 years, but questions con· cerning the admission of women still remain. Possibly the most Im­portant is: Does Notre Dame practice sex discrimination In its admissions policies? 
"I think you could use the term (sex discrimination), but what you have to understand is it's le,!(ally permissible," said Assis­tant Provost Sister John Miriam Jones. 
Jones was referring to Title IX of the Education Amendments. Although it makes sex discrimi­nation in admissions policies ille­gal, Title IX also states, "the admissions policies ofprivate un­dergraduate institutions are ex­empt." 
"So we are not discriminating according to the law...that's really splitting hairs, but that's what the lawyers tell us," Jones said. 
Presently, Notre Dame's un­dergraduate population is "roughly 72 percent male and 28 percent female," said Admissions Director Kevin Rooney. However, "there would be no problem finding qualified wo­men up to 35 or 36 percent ofthe class" from applications received each year, Rooney said. 
Each year the Admissions Of­fice is instructed to enroll a cer­tain number of men and women. 
For the 1984-85 school year, 
I300 men and 500 women were 
the chosen e~ollmem numbers. 
"So you have the men compet­ing among themselves...and the women competing among them· selves," Rooney said. "I can say 
9 d 

Sex Discrimination 
we are denying admission to some women with strong credentials." 
"We're considering the whole community, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," said University President Father Theodore Hes­burgh. "When you consider the students from Saint Mary's, the male/female ratio is around 60­40." 

"Indeed we are a single col· legiate community by history and tradition and a lot of activi· ties," Jones said. She cited social events, volunteer services and the co-exchange program as ex­amples. 
"On the other hand...we're really two separate institutions," )ones said. "My concern is more the fact of what limiting admis­sions does to the women that we don't admit, and that within our own community (Notre Dame) the women are still a little less than a third (of the population)." 
One reason Notre Dame does not have an equal number ofmen and women is that it might reduce the number of applicants to Saint Mary's. "We would never want to do something unilater· ally at Notre Dame that would harm Saint Mary's," jones said. "The question in my mind Is can we admit more women to Notre Dame without creating that harm." 
"I think we can. I think we probably need to admit a bit greater percentage ofthe women applicants than we do now," she said. 
Various plans for admitting more women are being drawn up. According to Hesburgh, part of the money from the next Uni­versity fund raising drive will build two new dorms (one male, one female). 
"Included in that in some way is an Increased proportion ofwo· men," Jones said. "How, I don't know." However, several plans for increasing the female percentage without increasing the undergraduate population are being seriously considered, according to Jones. 
Because of the resldentiallty of 
see WOMEN, page 4 


----~~--~-----~------------------------------~-----~-----------·-­
The Observer Tuesday, September 25, 1984-page·2 



In Brief 
Domer double standard 
The Natural Famlly Planning Program of St. 
Joseph County is once again offering an introduction to the natural methods of family planning. The group, sponsored by University Ministry, will deliver its presentation this evening at 7 in the Hayes­Healy Auditorium. An introductory slide show, a brief presentation and a question-and-answer session will last approximately one hour. Everyone Is invited to attend, and engaged or married couples may call 237-7401 to register for classes.-The Obseroer 
Career opportunities for engineers will be dis­cussed at the fourth annual Industry Day Fair. The fair will take place tomorrow from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in the concourse of Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. Representatives from 25 different companies including IBM, Delco, Aurthur Anderson, Procter and Gamble, Stepan Chemical, and General Motors will be distributing literature and answering questions. All are invited to attend. -The Obseroer 
The CILA orientation weekend will be 
Friday, Sept. 28 to Saturday, Sept. 29. Sign-ups are in the Center for Social Concerns and Saint Mary's Campus Ministry. For more infor­mation call Pat Schwing at 239-7735 or Ramona Del Rosario at 284­4307.-Tbe Obseroer 
An informational meeting about the 
Washington Semester for spring 1985 will be today at 7:30p.m. in Room 215 O'Shaughnessy Hall. -Tbe Obseroer · 
Of Interest 
Carol Seagerhas been appointed director ofNotre Dame Health Service by Father Dave Tyson, vice president for student af­fairs. Seager formerly served as employment coordinator in the Per­sonnel Department, a position now filled by Gina Book, former employee relations representative. The director has responsibility ' for operations ofthe health service and the physical facility housing/ both medical and psychological services. Seager has had health care management experience, including medical personnel recruitment, personnel appraisal systems, supervisory training, public relations, and planning and budgeting. She is a 1968 graduate ofAlma College and is a current candidate for a master of business administration degree in Notre Dame's College of Business Administration. -Tbe Obseroer 
David Maloney, a seniormechanical engineering major from Latham, N.Y., has assumed command ofNotre Dame's Air Force ROTC cadet corps. Maloney's responsibilities as corps com­mander will include the planning and operation of all corps activi­ties. In addition, he will be responsible for the professional conduct of all corps members. Before assuming command, Cadet Maloney served in several other corps capacities. Last spring, he acted as the corps director ofspecial projects. He also has served as commander of the Benjamin Fluois Squadron ofthe Arnold Air Society, a service organization affiliated with the Air Force Association. -The Obseroer 

Weather 
A 70 percent chance of 
thunderstorms today. Warm and humid with highs in the mid 70s to around 80. Tonight, a 70 percent chance of thunderstorms with lows in the mid and upper 50s. Tomorrow, mostly cloudy with a 30 percent chance of showers. Much cooler and less humid with 

highs in the mid 60s. -AP good impression with those 


so important to the financial well-being ofthis esteemed institution. 
Perhaps the administration expects us to learn drink· ing habits by example · good or bad. 
Now, I'm not passing judgment on the alcohol policy itself. I think the entire student body has already done that. My complaint concerns the administration's ap­parent double standard -the image they present to visitors (alumni) on a football weekend, and the atti­tude they take the rest ofthe time. 
Can the University condone drinking on football weekends and still justify its actions on behalf of the student body? What are we supposed to think? Or are we supposed to think? You can't train a puppy to do a trick by inconsistently applying rewards and punish­ment. It gets confused, and it won't learn anything. likewise, the administration, with its opinion ofour in­ability to think for ourselves, won't be able to mold us into its perception of responsible adults by changing the rules. 
''Quitting
isa


snap!' Please 
I 
support the AMERICAN WCANCER 
~SOCIETY® 
Thankstoyou... 


itworks ... 
forALLOFUS United
way 
BANKING••• ON CAMPUS AT SAINT MARY'S 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 27 banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 
Friday-11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m.  ~  source  
Join Michiana's 1stTeam  ~Bank  
for unsurpassed banking service!  Member F.D.I.C.  

'lbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. the Observer is publlshed by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( J20 per se· mester) by writing 'lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
'lbe Ob&erYer Is a member of 'lbe AModated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Today's Issue was produced by: 
Design Editor......................... Chris Bowler Layout Staff................ Anne,Kristin,Margo Typesetters ..................Mary Ellen and Ted News Editor ............................ Tess Guarino Copy Edltor...............................john Heasly Sports Copy Editor .............. Marc Ramirez Viewpoint Layout..................... Paul Bruce ND Day Editor................... Kathleen Doyle SMC Day Edltor........................]ody Radler Ad Design ................................ Susan O'Hara Pbotograpber.....................Hannes Hacker 
Notre Dame's first real home game has come and gone, and with it, the first test of the administration's new attitude toward student drinking. 
When hundreds ofalumni invaded Green Field -their cars loaded with beer, wine, and other forbidden pleasures -the famed alcohol policy with its ban on stu­dent drinking just seemed to fade into the background. 
The new alcohol regulations ban students from or­ganizing pre-game tailgaters. "No student, student organization, or residence hall may organize or sponsor 'tailgaters' on campus or on adjacent fields or parking lots at any time for the purpose of serving alcoholic beverages," the policy reads. 
But how much effect did the moratorium on student tailgaters have on the weekend's activities? Practically none. Sure, there were fewer student-sponsored tail­gaters, but nobody who really looked had any trouble finding one. While students couldn't sponsor tailgaters themselves, there was nothing stopping them from recruiting alumni, friends, or relatives to organize the festivities. 
Nobody (specifically the administration) seemed too concerned students were drinking out on Green Field. 
The question immedi­ately comes to mind, "What prompted the administra­tion to soften its hard-line approach to student drink· ing this past weekend?" The answer seems apparent. 
Alumni. 

Policy or not, it doesn't seem likely that handing out fines to every minor caught holding a beer would leave a 

KevinWilliams. 
Systems Mana 

Father Tyson, please explain to me why it's OK to drink out in the open when people from all around the country are here to watch me, but I can't carry a two beers across campus to share with a friend in the privacy of my room. 
Why is it.necessary for me to be a fine, upstanding pillar ofthe Notre Dame community seven days a week, ifI'm going to come back as an alumnus and have a male stripper dance on the top of my RV? 
I'm not so naive as to think the administration ap­proves of student drinking during football weekends, but I would like to know why it doesn't do anything about it. On the other hand, I won't even try to guess what it thinks about alumni drink­ing. 
Is the administration worried about what the alumni will think if it fines every minor caught holding a beer on Green Field? It didn't care too much about what we thought. But then, our $9,000-a-year contribu· tions aren't voluntary. 
I'm confused. 

-{ -­
The Observer Tuesday, September 25, 1984-page 3 


Observer endorsement reviewed before senate 
By MIKE MILLEN 
StaffReporter 
The Observer stated its offical election endorsement policy at last night's Student Senate meeting. 
In response to last week's debate regarding the merits ofObsen'er en­dorsemt·nt of student body tickets, Obsen•er representatives Bob Von­derheide, editor-in-chief, and Mark Wors<:heh, managing editor, ex­plained their positions. 
"We do endorse tickets for stu­dent body president and vice presidt·nt at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," Vonderheide said. 
About the possibility raised at last week's senate meeting of endorsed candidates being fined, he responded, "We would endorse can­didates even if Obud penalized them." 
Judicial Board Chairman Joe Zahn asked about candidates who may not want an Observer endorsement. Vonderhide responded, "we would find out everything we could about him," and then cun.~ider endorsing him. 
Senator Javier Oliva was unsure as to why Tbe Observer was concerned with endorsements, asking "why is it so important?" Wurscheh ex­plained,"it Is our opinion that It (the newspaper) has been looking at the issues throughout the year, and we feel qualified to make a choice." 
Vonderheide does nut believe that an Observer endorsement would give a candidate an unfair ad­vantage. "We have no more ofan ad­
vantage  than  the  South  Bend  
Tribune  dues In en dorsing  candi­ 
dates."  

Coordinator Alison Yurko saw no harm In the endorsements, pointing out, "lf the student body starts tel­ling the Observer what they can and can't print, why couldn't the admin­Istration do the same?" 
No further action was taken on the is.~ue. 

Student Body President Rob Ber­
tino announced a "practice trustee's 
meeting" on November 5th. Pos­
sibly taking place in the Center for 
Continuing Education, the meeting 
will be open to students. Bertino 
said the agenda includes looking at 
the woman's role at Notre Dame, 
senior townhouses. and an update 
on the social situation. He hopes this 
"mock" meeting will clarify the 
views presented on behalf of stu­
dents at the forthcoming Board of 
Trustee's meeting. 

A resolution introduced by Senator Pat Browne to encourage professors to lower class book costs unanimously passed. "First, Browne said, "lower the turnover rate." 
He admitted it might be impracti­cal "for science and engineering classes, because of advances in tech­nology," but "it might be feasible for introductory classes." 
Browne would like to see a limit of about $35 for Arts and Letters courses and S40 fur science and en­
'J'hc Obocrvrr/Jobanna Hacker
gineering classes. 

Adopt-A-Transfer 
He said the proposal was only a resolution, and professors still have 
Tom Duffy and Vladamir Horowitz, sitting, and atSenior Bar last night. The event was intended to Aline Gioffre, register transfer students and their bring together the adopters and adoptees for the
the right to order as many books as they see fit for the class. 
students sponsors at the Adopt-A-Transfer party_ first time to meet each other. 

Brown said sometimes teachers don't seem to consider the cost of the books, but he added, "I stress 

Hyde
that the Student Senate doesn't want to deter the quality of education." 
continuedfrompage 1 
The resolution moves on to the Campus Ufe Council. of nuclear holocaust with a col­lective expression of where the 
In other matters, Yurko an­Church in America stands." nounced the "kick-off" party for the Adopt-a-Transfer prog.ram, and Stu­Hyde said that churches as institu­dent Body Vice President Cathy tions should not play a formal role in David said the prog.ram would be the political process but he added, reviewed in a "national magazine." "Church leaders, on the other hand, 
Bertino announced a meeting of have every right to make publicly the Campus Life Council this Wed­clear their views on both specific is­nesday. sues and, more importantly, on the 
moral norms that should guide our 
approach to those issues ...." 
"In my view, there is nothing un­constitutional or inappropriate in a
SENIORS! 
president making clear his or her un­
derstanding that religiously-based 
values have had, and will continue to
Those registeredfor 
have, a crucial, formative role in our 
democratic experiment." 
Addressing Cuomo, Hyde said it doesn't make sense to state an abor­tion takes a life and it should be allowed. 
He added, "It has been said here at Notre Dame recently that Catholics in their own belief and behavior dont't differ significantly from the rest of the population on the issue of legal abortion. I hope that isn't quite true." 
Towards the end of his speech, which lasted nearly one hour, Hyde said, "Nearly two weeks ago on this campus the Governor proposed a hypothetical, 'Put aside what God expects -assume if you like there is no God -then the g.reatest thing still left to us is life'," he said. 
"That remark misses a point of ter­rifying importance, a point that was made bv Professor Paul Eidelberg, 

save ~ coupon -save -coupon -eave -coupon -save -coupon -save -coupon -save · coupon 
SeniorInformal should 
1o~ 0 
off on audio and video 
pick up all tickets and info. 



REPAIRS 
c
= 
NOT VALID ON ESTlMATE ONLVI n ~

Tues. 9 I 25 6 -8 
~

RADIO DISTRIBUTING '8 g 
LaFortune Lobby 
~= 

Authorized Service For: ;., Pioneer -Kenwood -Bose -JVC • Panasonic -Sharp • Sanyo -Marantz g Atari -TEAC -RCA-Quasar -Sylvania 
'8 
~ 

~---9_1_5_N_._B_en_d_ix__GOOD THRU 12•31-84 ___2_8_7_-2_9_11 z: 
~ 

clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip g 
,g: 
fll 
Dl 
c::

SAVE$$$ gQ. 
a. til .a· 
I» 
= 
Q. fll 
~ 

2.5 cubic Dormitory Ref.rig. a. 
.a· 
Dl

$45°0 for School Year 
= 
fll 
Dl

Limited Quantities Q. 
c:: 
a. til .a· 
0

BURNS RENT-Alls INC. Dl 
Q. 

332 W. Mishawaka Ave. 
~ 

Mishawaka a. 
;; 
= 
Q.

259-2833 Dl 
!l. 
.a· 
Dl 
Q. 
fll

Counseline Dl 
til
239-7793 c:: 
a. 

~ u. .a· 
1 ~h~1.U~~hl~p~~~l71d~~------------~-
Dl 

l 'l)'poo of Intlao7 
= 

Q. 6 lxpni81DI ....t:lve 'l'nouahtl and. fH11DII fll 7 Dullna wlth ~trucUve Crltlot.n Dl e Deallna wlth Anpr 
• Pbylloal Iatlao7 
c:: 
til 

9 lbl.retand.lq JealoUIJ and H9V to Dial Wtth It 10 How to SaJ "Wo" 
a. 

16 ..ca.i.Da Open to Oth8n 
.a· 

11 Datloa !~1111 20 r..t. ~~Moaaxuallt,. 
Dl 

21 Hall ._,,u:ualitJ Q. = lO Anxiety aDd Po11ibll Wa71 to Co~ Wlth It 
fll

n How to Deal vlth Lonelln••• 
Dl 

33 How to Handle Fear• c:: 34 lncTeuina s.u-t..n-rna.. til 35 lulldlnc. Self-Eit•• and Co!'f1d•nce 37 a.ta..uon Exe-rch" 
a. 

38 Co1'1nl vith Str..• .a· 39 F-1• Sex J.ol•--thana.. and Stre1111 
Dl 

410 Hale S.x Bole--Chana.. and Stn..•• 414 Laarnina to Acc•pt Your..lf = Q. 61 What b Therapy and Hov to U•• It 70 Inhtuatlon or Lovel ~ ll How to Cope vith a lrolr.en Relationship c:: 
til

IJ41 Death and Dyina .IJ5 Undentandina Grief 
6. 

90 llel,inl a Friend 
.a·

160 Early Sipa of an alcohol Probh111 161 leapon.tbl• Deciaiona about Drlnklnl Dl 402 Self .u..rtiveneaa = ·Ul Exurphl of Contrect luHdlns 
Q. 
fll Dl

Ul What 1a O.preu_lon 
432 How to Deal with pepre..ton 
c::

433 O.prualon aa a Llteatyle til 478 leco.lna Indeput1•"t tr• Pannt1 
I 

479 Dlalln1 vlth Alcvt"io.&.ic Parenti !l 491 Suicidal Crilh .a· 492 Recocnlzina Suicidal Potentiala in Others 
= I»

493 Helplns SOIMone in • Suicidal CrlaU 
.,.=--Hours: 4 -12p.m. Monday-Friday Q. 
'Unless the.re is a Being superior to man, nothing in theory prevents some men from deg.rading other men to the level of subhuman.' Do we need to be reminded that this is the age of Dachau and Auschwitz and the Gulag?" 
In conclusion, Hyde implored the law students, faculty and administra­tion members at the speech to "go out and change the world." 
After the speech, Hyde discussed the issue ofreligion and politics with McBrien in a taping of Channel 34s FRONT Special prog.ram which will air Friday night at 7:30 and Sunday afternoon at 3 p.m. 

Correction 
Due to an editing error, Satur­day's Observer incorrectly stated that Corby Tavern had been closed by the Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Commission. The bar remains open. 
Navy Nursing 
2 careers in 1! 
FIRST-You're a Navy Nurse You work in a Professional environment and have the opportun1ty for ad­vanced training. You are also 1n on immediate superv1sory position. SECOND-You are a Navy otficer This includes travel and adventure Your salary and benefits are comparable to civilian nurs1ng REQUIREMENTS-BSN degree. or a three-year diploma w1th one year re-Iated experience. 
SEND RESUME TO: 
Navy Medical Programs Room643 575 N. Pennsylvania Indianapolis. iN 46204 
OR CALL KATHY SCANLON TOLL FREE: 1-800-382-9782 
Navy Representative on campus Oct. 10 and 11 at the Placement Office 


The Observer Tuesday, September 25, 1984-page 4 




Student views sought 
ByANNE GALLAGHER 
StaffReporter 
Surveys concerning parietal changes, room-pick proceedure, and the alcohol policy were dis­cussed at the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting last night. 
Anne Marie Kollman, vice presi­dent for student affairs, announced the surveys would be circulated by R.A.'s in order to obtain student opinion on these issues. 
Questions deal with the increase ofparietal hours, computerizing the room lottery, and upgrading student perception ofalcohol use. 
"I have talked with Pat Rissmeyer (director of residence life) about it and I am really excited," Kollman said. "The information gained could change things in the long run." 
Changes could also be in the making for students participating in student government. Mary Anne O'Donnell, director ofstudent activ­ities, suggested a leadership course become mandatory. O'Donnell rec­ommended a seminar-style course be designed similar to a leadership course already offered in the busi­ness department. She noted most colleges already require such a course for their student government representatives. 

The board's reaction was mixed. "It seems wrong to put a require­ment on something done purely voluntarily," said Lee Ann Franks, student body president. Yet Kacey Horner, public relations commis­sioner, thought the class would be beneficial. "It puts potential candi­dates in a long term frame of mind concerning student government." 
Dorie Murray, parietals commis­sioner, also discussed student atti­tudes concerning theJudicial Board. She stated the goal for the year will be to change students' perception of the board, and let them know who is on the board. "Students don't seem to realize that they can appeal a sanc­tion held against them. We are set up as a council to help students." 
Before closing the meeting, Kol­lman and Franks urged board mem­bers to get involved with the upcoming Alcohol Awareness week, Oct. I-7. Both stressed the im­portance of attending the weekday films and evening lectures. Because of low attendence at last Saturday night's coffeehouse in Haggar, Franks advocated increased aware­ness and participation for the Octo­ber 2 Video Showcase in the Haggar College Center. 

Job rush 
Potential job applicants bang from an over­loaded pick-up truck in San Pedro, California, Sunday as they reach for the applications for 350 high-paying longshoreman and marine clerk openings. An estimated 50,000 people waitedfor two daysfor the350 applications. 

women 
continued/rampage 1 
Notre Dame and its single sex dorms, jncreases in the number of women do not occur continually, explained Jones. "It's not that we're sitting back smugly and saying 'listen, we have a legal exemption here, so not to worry'.'' 
Some students suggest converting a male dorm or introducing co-ed dorms in order to increase the num­ber of women on campus. Convert­ing a male dorm is "always an option," said Hesburgh. But this has not been very popular with men in the past, according to Jones. 
However, there is "no discussion" 
concerning coed dorms at present, 
according to Hesburgh. 
"We're special," he said. "I'm not passing judgment on anybody, but we feel separate dorms work best in our system." 

Smuggler sentenced 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -William Morgan Hetrick, the admitted drug smuggler who was indicted with John DeLorean, was sentenced yesterday to ten years in federal prison after prosecutors said he had "cooperated handsomely" with the government. 
U.S. District Judge Robert Takasugi, who presided over DeLorean's trial, imposed a series of concurrent sentences on charges that include conspiracy to possess and distribute cocaine, cocaine pos­session with intent to distribute and income tax evasion. 
The heavkst sentence was for the charge of conspiracy to possess and distiibute t.:ocaine. 
Takasugi also ordered Hetrick, 53, to serve five years of special parole to be added to normal parole after he is released from prison. 
The bespectacled Hetrick stood silently before the judge in a crowded courtroom and heard him­self described by his attorney as "a man who is broken" and by the pros­ecutor as "a man who may border on genius." 
Delorean, the former automaker who produced the gull-winged sports car bearing his name, was ac­quitted last month ofcharges ofcon­spiracy to distribute S24 million worth ofcocaine. 

L---------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

It's fourth and goal and you've got the ball. Make your move to the first team. The National Security Agency offers you an all-pro career opportunity in the 
ELECTftONIC ENGINEERING There are opportunities in a variety of research and development projects ranging from individual equipment!': •., very complex interactive systems involving large numbers of micro­processor,, minicomputers and computer grtjphics. Professional growth is enhanced through interaction with highly experienced NSA professionals and through contacts in the industrial and academic worlds. Facilities for engineering analysis and design automation are among the best available. 
COMPUTER SCIENCE At NSA you'll discover one of the largest computer installations In the world with almost every major vendor of cornputl!'r equipment represented. NS~ care~> . provide mixtures of such disciplines as 
On Campus Recruiting Date: Oct. 8, 1984 
following fields: 

systems analysis and design, scientific applications programming, data base management systems, operating systems, computer networking/security, and graphics. 
MATHEMATICS You'll work on diverse agency problems applying a variety of mathematical diSCiplines. Specific assignments might include solving communications--related problems, performing long-range mathematical research or evaluat.i11g new techniques for communicat•ons security. 
LINGUISTS NSA offers a wide range of challenging assignments for Slavic, Near Eastern and Asian language majors involving translation. transcription and analysis/reporting. Newly-hired pn.luists can count on receiving advanced training in their primary 
language(s) and can plan on many years of continued professional growth. 
THE REWARDS AT NSA NSA offers a salary and benefit program that's truly competitive with private industry. There are assignments for those who wish to travel and abundant good living in the Baltimore-Washington area for those who wish to stay close to home. Countless cultural, historical, recreational and educational opportu­nities are just minutes away from NSA's convenient suburban location. 
To find out more about NSA career opportunities, schedule an interview through your college placement office. For additional information on the National Security Agency, write to National Security Agency, Attn: M322, 
.. 
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755. 

The Observer Tuesday, September 25, 1984-page 5 

Rhea Perlman and Pat Harrington, winners in the best supporting role in a comedy series, stand with their Emmys Sunday night at the Pasadena Civic Auditorium. Perlman won the honorfor her role in "Cheers;" Harrington for his role in "One Day at a Time." 


U.S. State Department to reinforce embassies 
AliiiOClated Pre!lll 
NEW YORK -'Inc State Depart· ment disc.:losed yesterday it is asking Congress to urgently approve an­other S372 million in emergency funds to improve security at Ameri­can embassies in the wake of the ter­rorist bomb that devastated the U.S. Embassy annex in Beirut last week. 
john Hughes, a State Department spokesman, said the funds will be used to build and strengthen bar­ricades around embassies, to speed up nmstruction of some new em­bassies in "high threat areas," to pro­vide armored vehicles and to control public access to certain em­bassies. 
Hughes said the Reagan adminis­tration wants the aid approved before the end of the current sess­slon of Congress, Oct. 4. 
Plans to upgrade security at U.S. embassies was first envisioned in 1979 as a response to mob attacks against U.S. facilities in Pakistan, Iran and Ubya. 'Inc program called for improving security at I25 sites at a cost of S 192 million. Some posts were dropped from the program, which until yesterday was expected to cost S 145 million. 
Hughes announced the aid re­quest after Secretary ofState George Shultz, attending a United Nations session here, received a report from a team of Investigators who probed the devastation of the embassy an­nex In Beirut and are to make recommendations about how to im­prove security. 
Heading the team was Robert Oakley, the State Department's co­ordinator for counterterrorism. 
Hughes said the administration has no plans to close its diplomatic posts in Lebanon after the terrorist attack, the third to destroy an Ameri­can installation in that city in 1 7 month!i. 
Other blasts destroyed the U.S. Embassy In April 1983 and the U.S. Marine headquarters in October. 
Hughes said the investigators dis­closed that the van that blew up, heavily damaging the embassy an­nex and killing at least 13 people, was carrying the equivalent of 3,000 pounds ofdynamite. 
He said apparently there was only one occupant In the terrorist vehicle which managed to get through the outer gate ofthe embassy annex, and that that terrorist may have already been shot dead by the time the van exploded 20 feet from the annex building_ 
He said the investigators reported that Lebanese guards hired by the embassy fired at the van as It headed towards the annex, but that Lebanese soldiers in the area ap­parently did not fire. He said there were some police who also did not 
fire.  
Asked  if  that  meant  he  was  
criticizing  the  Lebanese,  he  said,  
"I'm not making a judgment_"  

He said the investigators found that while special protective cover­ing over the windows worked well on the side of the building, it failed to work in the front and back of the structure. 
In Washington, meanwhile, the State Department said yesterday it has alerted U.S. diplomatic posts worldwide to reassess their security measures following a new threat by the same group that claimed respon­sibility for last week's bombing. 

dependable DeW dewntGWII Chicap lel'Vice. 


Assoclated Pre!lll 

COLUMBIA CITY, Ind. · Saying "we can't tolerate human sacrifice in the name of religion," a judge sen­tenced a faith-healing couple to five years in prison yesterday in the death of their infant son from an un­treated illness. 
judge Edward Meyers of Whitley Circuit Court told Gary Hall, 33, and his 27-year-old wife, Margaret that 
the sentence gave him "more con­cern" than any he has handed down in 20 years on the bench. Nevertheless, said the judge, 
..........[iil!:~~ii!~iJ(!rmmr!J•········ "What religion you chose to follow.
' . . that's your business. But when your religion doesn't permit some­one else ever to have an opportunity to make that choice or any choice, 
:..:..... 
LEAVE LEAVE LEAVE LEAVE OSCEOLA BIG BEAR NOTRE SOUTH BEND OFFICE TOWN & COUNTRY DAME AIRPORT 5:10A.M. 5:45A.M. 6:00A.M. 6:15A.M. ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE MIDWAY ART MARSHALL WATER TOWER AIRPORT INSTITUTE FIELD'S PLACE 1:15 A.M. 1:50 A.M. 9:00A.M. 9:15A.M. FROM DOWNTOWN CHICAGO LEAVE LEAVE ARRIVE MCDONALD'S MIDWAY SOUTH BEND 220 N. MICHIGAN AIRPORT AIRPORT 6:00P.M. 6:45P.M. 1:45 P.M. ------­ARRIVE ARRIVE ARRIVE NOTRE BIG BEAR OSCEOLA DAME TOWN & COUNTRY OFFICE 9:00P.M. 9:15P.M. 9:10P.M.  
Bidt United Umo to Midway Airport and Downtown Chicaao Same Day Return CALL YOUR TIUVEL AGEHT OR UNITED UMO 674-6993 10144 U.S. ZO (one and one·half miles east of Bittersweet) Osceola, Indiana 46561  
-.­..... -. -... -.. -......... ­-­ 


Couple receives five year sentence 
then I don't know if society is rea<ly to accept that." 
He then sentenced them to five years in prison on a reckless homicide conviction and two years on a child neglect conviction with the sentences to be served concur­rently. 
The Halls, released on their own recognizance, are members of the Faith Assembly Church, a faith­healing sect based In Noble County which shuns doctors and medicine. They had acted as their own defense attorneys during their August trial_ 
They showed no emotion when the sentence was pronounced, and 
said they would appeal.  
The  Hall's  sentence  was  non­ 
suspendable  because  of  a  prior  
felony conviction.  



Theindependentstudentnewspaper 
serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is 
accepting applications for the following 
positions: 

Assistant News Editor 
e Responsible for pro­duction of th~ news section one night per week. 
e A paid position. 
Submit an application and a per­
sonal statement to Sarah or Dan by 
5 p.m. Thursday. For more informa­
tion, call The Observer at 239-5313. 
The Gbserver 

3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

... -------.. -.......................... -... ---......... -....... -............ -..................-.... 
Before he sentenced Mrs. Hall, who is pregnant with her fourth child, Meyers asked her if she could ever provide medical care for her children. "On the basis of my con­victions, and of my fear of God Al­mighty, I could not provide medical care," she said. 
The judge said after court he was 
unaware of the status of the Halls' 
two other children at home_ 
"I guess I can't recall in 20 years on the bench any sentence that has given me more concern and I've spent more thought thinking about than this one," Meyers said. "I'm not certain why that Is -other than or­dinarily the sentences I hand down are ones I see week In and week out. This is a unique situation." 
But, said Meyer, "Certain societies have now reached a point where we can't tolerate human sacrifice In the name ofreligion. I don't feel you can justify this kind ofbehavior." 
The Halls were convicted Aug. 26. 
Their 26-day-old son, joel David, 
died at home Feb. 16 ofan untreated 
pneumonia, Whitley County 
Coroner Alfred Allina testified. The 
child's life could have been saved 
with readily available treatment, he 
said. 
The Halls, in their unsuccessful defense, told the jury the state had no authority to compel its residents to seek a doctor's care. 
They cited an Indiana child ne­glect law that allows parents caring for a sick child to substitute prayer for medicine in the "legitimate practice" of religious beliefs. 
Attorney john Bloom, who was appointed by the court to file an ap­peal for the Halls, said he will center on the nature of the state's child ne­glect law. 
"It indicates someone who legitimately practices a religious beliefdoes not have to use a doctor. There's a conflict as to the scope of that exception. 

View~_O_l_·_n_t_________T_ue-sd-ay_,s_ep-te-mb-er_z_s,_I9-84-p-ag_e6 

Howard fights back against false image 

It has become a tradition that Dillon Hall sponsors a pep rally before the first home foot­ball game every year. This year's rally went off as planned. However, it was marred by an ex­tremely childish act on Dillon's part. 
On Thursday afternoon, someone in Dillon hung a banner from their window which read "Colorado Sucks Howard Pop. 165". When members ofthe Howard football team saw the banner, they got very angry and told the Dil­lonites to take it down. They refused. Dillon's 
Paul Cimino on a pale horse 
rector was no help and the banner was finally removed by force. Later that night at the pep
,..
,. rally another banner, much the same as the first, hung on Dillon's wall and remained there 
,r 
throughout the pep rally. Why? It would seem that a number of years ago 
r 
the president of Howard Hall at that time,
r 
went on "Donahue" and openly proclaimed
r 
that he was gay. Maybe this gentleman
r 
r thought he was doing the right thing at the time, but years later "boys" from Dillon are still harping on this subject to try to get the
~ 
whole campus to believe that Howard is-a gay dorm. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
Friday night Howard Hall held its annual Hat and Tie Party. The Hat and Tie has been one of the biggest social events on campus since about 1977 and has always been well attended. This year's party was no exception as there were many girls in attendance. None of these girls gave one thought to this totally false reputation and thay all had a great time. In fact, many of them came to Howard on Sat­urday night also as was partly evidenced by the eight I found in my room at midnight. 
Howard has been. fighting this wrongful reputation for quite a long time now and has been very successful. But acts like Dillon's make all this fighting for naught. No matter what anybody says, Howard is a terrific dorm and filled with, in my opinion, the best bunch of men on campus. It is due to the people and atmosphere at Howard that many football players enjoy living there. Players like Mike Larkin, Chris Smith, Allen Pinkett, Mike Gann, Wally Kleine, Eric Dorsey, Alonzo Jefferson, and Ricky Gray to name a few. I don't see these gentlemen livingin Dillon. 
Then again, maybe the Dillon "boys" are just jealous ofHoward. Sure, Dillon is the larg­est dorm on the South Quad and the perennial inter-hall football champs, however, Howard, at almost one-third the size, fields a football team which regularly wins its division. Add to this the thrashing Dillonls baseball team took last year at the hands ofa Howard team which made it to the finals, and one can see that man­for-man, Dillon may have the quantity, but Howard has got the quality. 
It is about time that this absolutely false reputation was laid to rest, once and for all. Howard should finally be recognized as one of the great halls on the South Quad. Further­more, everyone should realize that Howard is no more a gay dor{ll than is Dillon. And maybe, just maybe ifthe Dillon "boys" would accept this fact they might finally get headed on the correct road to maturity. 
Paul Cimino is a sophomore in the College of Science at Notre Dame and a regular con­tributor to Viewpoint. 

The function of this university 
The recent speech given by New York Mario Cuomo at Notre Dame was an articulate statement ofone Catholic politician's view on religious belief and public Morality. While many people might not agree with Cuomo's argument, I think those who listened appreci­ated the eloquence and depth ofthe govenor's 
Mark Boennighausen 
Gravity is a myth 

discussion. It was obvious by the delivery that Cuomo had written the speech and had put a great amount of effort into preparing it. He was not simply an actor reading someone else's words. 
The content and validity of the speech, however, are not to be discussed here. The reaction ofsome members ofthe Notre Dame community though deserve some comment, I think. 
I do not criticize those who disagree with Cuomo's position, but I do have many reserva­tions about those who thought it was im­proper for Cuomo to speak at Notre Dame. It seems that a university should be a place for exploring subjects and seeking new insights into issues. And tho1,1gh it may surprise some, there are other sincere views on the abortion issue than the one put forth by the hierarchy of the Catholic Church. To deny the expres­sion of di1Jerent beliefs strikes at the heart of the function of any university whether it be Catholic or secular in character. 
· A university is one place to develop beliefs about a broad range ofissues and exposure to all sides of these issues is a necessity. Anyone who takes a side ofan issue without exploring the other side believes out ofignorance rather than evidence. Surely those who would have denied Cuomo access to Notre Dame as a forum to express his personal views did not think that he would corrupt the minds of an intelligent and independent Notre Dame stu­dent body. And ifhe did make some students think about their beliefs, even for a moment, he did a great service for the University. 
It is unfortuante that many members of the Notre Dame community would like nothing better than to have only "correct" Catholic views presented here. There does seem to be a feeling that Notre Dame should become, as one professor has complained, a "Cathlic ghetto." Another faculty member, who has since left the University, told me she felt there was an "inquistion" being conducted by the administration to keep the school entirely Catholic. Ifsuch an environment is indeed de­veloping, it spells disaster for the University. Exposure to di11erent perspectives is healthy, and for a univeristy it is a must. 
One protestor outside of Washington Hall, who was marching around before Cuomo's speech, had a sign that stated, "I am a Catholic, I am ashamed." This comment seemed to im­ply that anybody who supported the idea that Cuomo should be allowed to speak was not Catholic. 
Logically, people who question an individ­ual's or Notre Dame's catholicity should have a concrete definition ofwhat it is to be Catho­
lic. Is is possible to have an exact definition. If there is one, I personally wonder what it is. Since I have reservations about the Church's view on birth control and I see some hypocrisy in her decress on divorce, am I no longer Catholic? Ifso, I should call my mother since she has always told our neighbors what a "good Catholic boy" 1 am. 
One thing I have learned at Notre Dame is that Catholicism is not easily defined. Whe­ther one takes Father McBrien's class or a "conservative" theology class, there is no spe­cific recipe for the make-up of a Catholic. Un­doubtedly there are definite beliefs that are demanded of a Catholic but there is room for varying views within the religion. That is what makes it such a strong and vibrant commu­nity. Debate and discussion of di1Jerent views keeps a community strong and those who want to restrain some parts of any discussion are only doing a disservice to the entire com­munity. 
A university is not like a medieval town. Building walls will not make it stonger or bet­ter. The desire to keep di1ferent people and ideas in exile is unhealthy and, in the long run, it only makes a university weaker and more ignorant. 
Mark Boennighausen is a senior in the College of Arts & Letters and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


In defense of the lives of the unborn 
In the speech Mario Cuomo delivered recently at Notre Dame, he argues that a law against abonion would be widely violated and that is a reason for not having a law against abortion. I agree with him that within the first few years after the law is passed, there will be much violation of the law -after all, many young women have grown up believing that 
Janet E. Smith 
guest column 

they have a "right" to kill their babies and the fact that the government has paid for this kil­ling has led them to believe that they were doing something moral. It will be difficult to correct the impression we, without bad laws and policies, have created. Laws for affirma­tive action have been and continue to be widely violated because many do not agree with them, but gradually the law is helping change attitudes and correct the situation. Without the laws, gaining rights for women, minorities, and the unborn might happen eventually, but the law is a great facilitator in this process. 
Cuomo also argues that he isobliged 19 up, hold the Constitution even if it legalizes kil­ling (though few scholars support the decision of the Supreme Court that a right to abortion is truly in the Constitution). He would not be violating the constitution. And the constitution surely does not mandate that we pay for abortions. Rather it s~>Pms an im­position on all those who thint.. abortion is kil­ling to use their hard earned money to pay for abortions. Let us hope that Cuomo does not agree with Ferraro who has argued that we should pay for the abortions of the poor be­cause "the cost of putting an unwanted child through the system far outweighs the cost of those procedures (abortion)" Oune 27, 1979 ). I, for one, would gladly pay to suppon the babies of the poor rather than kill them. I am surprised that those who make such gran­diose claims to compassion, don't share my view. Let us also hope that Cuomo would not share the views of the compassionate Ferraro who on Sept. 30, 1982 voted against an amendment to prohibit federal funding of medicaid experiments on living unborn children intended for abortion. 

As mentioned, Cuomo argues that to outlaw abortion would divide our pluralistic nation. Is Cuomo's reading of the American attitude 
. .towards abortion correct? On "Nightline," Fa­ther Hesburgh stated that he believed that most Americans oppose abortion on demand and would support a law against abortion with exceptions for the cases of rape, incest, and health of the mother (and the polls support this statement). Indeed, a poll taken by the Washington Post and ABC at the time of the Democratic National Convention showed that while only 9 percent ofthe delegates sup­ported laws against abortion, 46 percent of rank and file Democrats think abortion ought to be outlawed; if members ofthe party which has the right to abortion in its platform feels this way, it is highly likely that we have the 51 percent Cuomo said he would recognize as a consensus. Does Cuomo realize that such a law as Hesburgh supports would eliminate nearly all abortions? Why is not he working at least for this sort oflaw? 
While I have many and profound disagree­ments with Cuomo, in this day and age of a la carte Catholicism, I found inspiring his repeated statements that he accepted the teaching ofthe Church on abortion, birth con­trol, and divorce binding on him as a Catholic: certainly he is unusual for his loyalty and to be commended for his obedience in this regard. I also thought he was right to point out that rarely are Catholics taught by their priests (and I would add professors) why the Church teaches that such practices are wrong and that this most likely explains why Catholics are so confused and so inclined to have abortions, etc. Mycontact with students here leads me to believe that few ofthem have met with priests or professors who have explained the Church's teaching on birth control or abor­tion to them: in fact they are more likely to have heard from those who dissent from the Church's teaching. 
Abortion, the killing ofthe unborn, is a very great evil. We need intelligent and articulate individuals with great moral conviction who will use their talents, . opportunities, and powers of persuasion to win others over to the cause of life. Let us hope that out of this great Catholic university there may emerge Catholics who can speak as courageously and eloquently in defense of the lives of the un­born as Mario Cuomo did in defense ofhis po­sition of"l am personally opposed to abortion but..." 
Tbis is the second part in a two-part series by janet E. Smith, founder and faculty ad­visorfor the ND-SMC Right to Life Group, and chairman ofthe board for the Women's Care Center/Pregnancy Help Centf':. 

"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~-----------------------------------------T_u_e_sd_a_y,_s_ep~t_e_m_b_er_2_5_,_1_9_B4___P_a_g_e_7 

P.O. Box Q 
A living will allows death with dignity 
Dear Editor: 
While Dane Galden did make some valid points in his guest column "Euthenasia is ab· surd" (September 17 ), he also made a mistake. A living will does not give "permission to kill," it allows one to die with dignity. A living will does not force the physician to kill the patient, It merely asks that extraordinary means not be taken to preserve a life. What is the sense in prolonging life if there is no hope for the future? 
If my brain is so severely damaged in an accident that I will never be the person I once was (or, in coarser terms, if I will be a 'vegetable'), what Is the sense in keeping my body alive with respirators, IV's and other medical devices? All a living will does is ask that such devices be disconnected; the matter oflife or death is up to God. 
Sue Fischer Pasquertlla West Hall 

We must respect dissenting opinion 
Dear Editor: 
Even though I have written some rather strong commentaries about the present politi· cal climate in the past week, I am forced to caution tht· American populace, though, from falling into a pitfall that could endanger the current democratic system we live in. 
With the overwhelming tide of political opinion seeming to stand behind President Reagan, we must be careful not to adopt a McCarthian mentality of the 1950's toward dissenting opinion. lbough the Republican party is portrayed by some as "the party of the future", and some Democrats are jokingly referred to as "pinkos" and "commies", we must keep these comments in the realm of humor. For nearly two centuries the Constitu· tiona! right offreedom ofspeech and opinion has been the cornerstone of American 
democracy. Any faction of the populace, be it Democratic or Republican, Fascist or Com· munist, llberal or Conservative, should and must be able to, without harrassment or threat, propose thoughtful and intelligent opinions about current political, moral, and social issues pressing upon our nation. 
Remember the example of Nazi Germany. Be careful not w be just another "cog in the wheel", but rather make sure you have a good reason to cast a ballot for the candidate you will pull the lever for. Persecution is for criminals, not for those whose opinions dis­agree with those of popular consensus. Re· member the words of former President Uncoln, "A house, ivided against itself, cannot stand." Do not loosen the screws. 
Evan Farley Holy CrossHall 

A human embryo is a person 
DearEditor: 
After Gov. Cuomo's presentation at Notre 
Dame, the Boston Globe headlined: "Cuomo 
says Church has no teachings that compel 
abortion ban."Well what about Command· 
ment number five · thou shall not kill? 
It is time to clear away all the clutter sur· rounding the abortion issue. The heart of the matter is, and always will be, whether a human embryo is a person or not. If not, then abor· tion is acceptable. 
Intuition tells an expectant mother and an expectant father that what is growing in her womb is their child. 
Science tells us that the joining ofovum and sperm begins a process that Insures the con­tinuation of the species. 
No religion or politics, just reason! 
We have freedom ofchoice: We either hold that a human embryo is a person or that a human embryo is not a person. So let us cut out all this "I am personally opposed...but..." nonsense. 
William Mitchell Boston, Massacbussetts 

'Lettuce talk' about ND Food Service 
DearEditor: 
For two years I have consistently heard only grievances and complaints in the area ofNotre Dame's dining experience, the latest being "Lettuce Talk" in the Tuesday, September 18th Observer. 
My first year at Notre Dame I thought the food was pretty good, but It wasn't until last year, after spending several months In France, the country ofhaute cuisine, that I knew it was good! 
One complains here about a sparcely supplied salad bar and ketchup in the dressing bins, or about warm milk and little ice cream. Well, imagine a dining hall where there are no choices and no seconds ifone should discover something edible, no deli for alternatives nor a salad bar, no drinks except water, oranges occasionally but never napkins, and stale bread to sop up oodles ofgrease. 

My return to South Dining Hall was, believe it or not, quite anticipated. I have never seen anyone sit down with an empty tray. How could they with several hot plate choices as well as vegetable choices, deli choices, des­sert choices, cereal choices and a salad bar? 
I now appreciate such unseen specialities as peanut butter, ketchup and ice cream and the special efforts for variety (i.e. · picnics or theme nights). 
My mother had trouble pleasing three people at every meal and for the University Food Services to attempt to please 7000 is ex­tremely admirable. 
Alicia Cooke Walsh Hall 

We should not force 
our morals on others 
DearEditor: 
Being one of those students that was "seduced" by Governor Cuomo's speech, I must refute Paul Douglas' argument concern­ing his political double-talk. Ofcourse the au­dience's reception would have been negative ifthe word murder would have replaced abor· tion. That is because it is generally accepted in our society that murder is morally wrong. The difference is not between murder and abor­tion, for I too, believe they are the same. The difference lies in the perspective taken by our society as a whole. It is obvious the majority of Americans do not see abortion as we do. 
The personal morals we each hold are to regulate our own actions. Just because we see abortion as murder does not automatically mean that everybody else does as well. We may try to persuade others to see it our way but can never force our morals on them. 
AmyAppleby Regina Hall 

Does Notre Dame look Catholic enough? 
DearEditor: 
All the controversy surrounding the ques· tion "Is Notre Dame Catholic enough?" lacks an important discussion on our understanding of Catholicism. An assumed aspect of Cat· holicism in the articles I have read is the necessity of restricting the exposure of Cat· holies to certain "proper" Catholic view­points. This denies the church's recent swing endorsing the ecumenical movement. This movement Is a timely realization that other religions have an element oftruth and that we can be aided on our spiritual quests with an appreciation of these other truths. 
Maybe our original question should actu· ally be "Does Notre Dame LOOK Catholic enough?" and the ensuing "Do I LOOK Catho­lic enough?" These questions invariably ad· dress how other people view the externals of our faith, how many Masses we attend, the number ofdorms having a daily Mass and even what ratio ofCatholics (with "proper" views) are on our teaching staff. Faith cannot be mea· sured in this way. It Is an attitude toward life, a 
way ofviewing the world with a commitment 
to Christ. Jesus of Nazareth would not appear 
Catholic by todays standards and yet he lived 
the radical life offaith. 
We have all read about the crusades of the 
past which were conducted in order to obtain 
a piece ofland. Many human lives were need· 
lessly lost in this "search for God." Ace we em· 
barking on another crusade to find a peace of 
mind by expurglng all ideas which are con· 
trary to our own? Is the life that Is needlessly 
lost in this crusade our own life of the spirit? 
Mike Poirier Keenan Hal/ 
Preventing stupid and senseless wars 
DearEditor: 
Regarding Evan Farley's letter In this space 
on September I8, In which he attacked 
Varga's political views, I have a few com· 
men!S. 
Mr. Farley, it is very good and noble to be 
willing to fight and die for freedom, and if 
freedom and justice are the Ideals which led 
you to choose a military career, then I deem 
you a very good and noble man. 
However, are you really willing to kill and die for American consumers' gasoline supply? Well, even If you are, I am not willing to let you. The greatest quality ofAmerica is that Its citizens have a say in the doings of their gov· ernment, and I intend to work · and vote · to prevent such a stupid waste ofyour life. 
Mr. Farley, as an ROTC cadet you must be a student of American military history. Surely you are aware that we have not fought a single war for freedom since World War II. (And we were in preciousfew before that.) At best, this country's motives have been mixed. At worst, as in Santo Domingo and Grenada, we fought to bolster our national ego or preserve cor­porate profits. Lest you think I exaggerate, ask yourself why we are not giving more overt aid to the Afghani rebels, why we are not pressur­ing South Africa's government to give up Apar· theid, and why we are nru demanding that Chile's military junta allow democracy to return. The United States is not doing any of these things because It is not in our economic interest to do them. (God forbid that the Chileans might elect a government that might nationalize American holdings!) Most Americans simply don't value other peoples' freedom enough to support the sacrifices we'd make to help them secure it. 
Me. Farley, I would be ashamed of a people who would trade their sons' blood for gasoline, but who would not demand freedom for oppressed people everywhere In the world. I would be ashamed of a people who would elect a President who substitutes jln· goistic rhetoric for rational diplomacy. 
Finally, Mr. Farley, one who fights for freedom Is a noble warrior, but one who would die for any President's machismo Is an unfortunate dupe. I, for one, will have no part ofthe slaughter ofsuch dupes. When your are swimmingIn your guts and blood offthe shore of Nicaragua, let your dying curse be for the people who sent you there, and not for the ones who tried to prevent a stupid and sense· less war. 
Michael]. DeWeert Pbysics Department 
Got an opinion, drop us a line 

Viewpoint not only provides you an opportunity to respond to the columns, articles and illustrations printed this newspaper, but through 
P. 0. Box Q and guest columns you can address issues which have not been raised to your satisfaction in this newspaper. Viewpoint encourages all of its readers to fully expore and voice their opinions. Simply send your letter toP. 0. Box Q or deltever It to our office. Letters should be no longer than 150 words in length and guest columns should not exceed 600 words. All works must be signed. 
The Observer Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 
Edltor·ln·Chief. . . Bob Vonderheide Busmess Manager . Dave Taiclet Managinq Ed1tor Mark Worscheh Controller . .. Manpat Horne 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the News Ed1tor ............. Sarah Hamilton AdvertiSing Manager . . Anne Culligan Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessanly News Ed1tor . . .... Dan McCullough C~rculal10n Manager Jeff O'Neill reflect the poliCies of the administration of either mslitution. The news IS reported as Samt Mary·s Ed1tor . Anne Monastyrsk1 Systems Manager . Kevin Williams accurately and as obJeCtively as poSSible. Uns1gned ed1t0r1als represent the op1nion Sports Ed1tor Michael Sullivan of a maJOrity of the Ed1tor1al Board. Commentanes. letters and the tns1de Column V1ewpomt Ed1tor . Dave Grote present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space IS available to all members of the Features Ed1!0r Mary Healy 
Founded November 3, 1966

commun1ty. and the free express1on of varymy opmions on campus. through letters. Photo Edllor. . Pete Laches IS encouraged 





Sports Briefs 
Approximately 80 tickets for the Notre 
Dame/Missouri game will be available on a first-come, first-served basis beginning thls afternoon at the Student Activities Board record store. -The Obseroer 
The Notre Dame golf teamparticipated i~ the Indiana Intercollegiate Golf Championships at Zionsville, Ind., and came away with a third place finish. Notre Dame had a score of 623, while first-place Purdue topped all teams with 606 and Ball State had 
613. Seventeen teams took part in the tournament. Top finishers for the Irish were Rich Connelly ( ISO, fourth place), john O'Donovan ( 153, eighth place) and Chris Bona ( 154, tenth place). The team travels next to French Lick, Ind., to participate in the Midwestern City Conference Championships. -Tbe Obseroer 
Mike Gan.n, defensive tackle for the Notre Dame football team, is tentatively scheduled to be the guest on "SpeakingofSports" at 10 tonight on WVFI AM 64. To ask questions or voice your opinion, call 239-6400.-The Obseroer 
The off-campus hockey teamwill be meeting from 12-1 p.m. tomorrow and Friday at the ACC. Team ~embers should bring their skates. -The Obseroer 
The ND Women's Golf Club will be meeting 
today for mandatory practice at the putting green at 4:30 p.m. A dinner meeting will follow. If you cannot attend, please call Jane or Father Knoll. -Tbe Obseroer 

Soccer 
continuedfrom page 12 
of the goal, where it was headed back in front. The ball was headed one more time before IU fullback · Dan King got his head on the ball and flicked it over the head ofSteranka at 
40:36. 
At halftime, the score remained 
tied at 1-1. Indiana coach jerry 
Yeagley admitted afterward that he 
had been worried at halftime, but he 
said he also was confident that his 
team would pull away in the second 
period. 
"To play that kind of high­pressure (game) and do the kind of running they (the Irish) had to do to contain us in the first half catches up with you," Yeagley explained, "and they're not to the point yet where they have the reserves that they can put in there to maintain that kind of pressure." Conversely, IU has plenty of capable subs, as the Irish discovered in the second half. 
"When jerry makes four or five subs," Notre Dame coach Dennis Grace said, "he's just as tough as he is at the start of the game." 
The Hoosiers began to spread the Irish defense wide on the field, and they were able to get several 

Tuesday, September 25, 1984-page 8 
breakaways from the wings. At 4:01 of the second period, Paul DiBer­nardo put Indiana ahead, and the Irish could not make up the deficit. 
Additional goals by DiBernardo, Iker Zubizerreta and Chris Keenan accounted for the final 5-1 score. 
Fatigue was the biggest enemy of Notre Dame in the second half, as the Irish players no longer could keep up with the Indiana team, which spread across the entire width ofthe field. Grace said he does not feel the Hoosiers were in better shape than his players, but that their skill level was too much for his players to combat with fitness alone. 
"Yeah, they wore us down," Grace admits, "but I think we're in fine physical shape. When you play a team the sort of Indiana, with the control they have, they make you chase and make you work for every­thing you get. You have to extend yourself beyond your limit. I think we did that, and I have no problems with that. 
"We played them 40 good minutes; that's a lot," Grace contin­ued. "I don't know how many teams can say they played 40 minutes of good ball against Indiana University. 
"Unfortunately for Notre Dame," Grace conceded, "it's a 90-minute game." 
Yeagley said he made some tactr cal changes at halftime to force the Irish to do more running and tire more quickly in the second half. 
"What we decided at halftime was that we were not going to try to at­tack as quickly," the Hoosier coach said. "We were going to work the ball up more slowly from the back and midfield and try to make them do a little more chasing anJ draw them out of their defensive align­ment. That seemed to work much better, and we were constantly able to get the ball through on the outside." 
The statistics for the game look as lopsided as the score in favor of the Hoosiers. Indiana had 21 shots to Notre Dame's five. Steranka made eight saves, but Killough had to make only one. 
Perhaps the most striking differ· ence is the number of corner kicks for each team. Notre Dame gave up 16 of the dangerous scoring oppor­tiunities to the Hoosiers, but the Irish had only one corner kick in the game. After the game, Yeagley com­mented on the significance of that statistic. 
"I looked up at the scoreboard (at halftime)," Yeagley said, "and I saw one corner kick and one goal (for the Irish). I still see one corner kick and one goal." 
Notre Dame will have a chance to get back on the winning track to­morrow night at Loyola. 

The Obserz•er Notr" Dam" olfin:. I<Katt:d on the third floor of Lafortun" Student Center. accepts dassitkd advt:rtising from') a.m. until 4 p.m.. Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's offict:. located on tht: third floor of Haggar College Center. accepts dassificds from 12:50 p.m. until 5 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. o.,adline for next-day classifif:ds is 5 p.m. All classifieds must ht: prt:paid, either in person or hy mail. ( :hargt: is I 0 <"<"nts per ftvt: charac­


Classifieds 
ters t:r day. 

ATTENTION  $5,000  REWARD  FOR  BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN & MY DAD ARE  ATTN: SMC JUNIORS THOSE INTER­ Dear Paula, Birthdays quickly pass. that I  
NOTICES  LOST WATCH AND IM JUST A STU· DENT. WHOEVER FOUND MY GOLD  TICKETS  BOTH FROM NJ AND NEITHER HAVE MIAMI TIX. IF YOU HAVE 2 GA'S CALL  ESTED IN BEING CHAIRPERSON FOR GRADUATION OR SENIOR TRIP CO.  do know. Yet a new friendship like oors. I shall never let go. HAPPY BELATED  
TIMEX WATCH--I WOULD APPRECI­ GREG-3578.  CHAIRPERSON, PICK UP AN APPu­ BIRTHDAY! Love. Bill  
ATE ITS RETURN. I HAVE NO MONEY ...  ................................................................  ~TION AT HCC DESK. PLEASE TURN  
Are yoo in need ol FINANCIAL AID? L-.hip Training! Challenge! Ad­ HOWEVER. YOU WIU GAIN TOTAL CONSCIOUSNESS ON YOUR  Needed: 2 So. Carolina GAs; Markx1154  FOR TRADE ONLY: I have 3 Miami GAs. Will trade for South Carolina GAs. Call  IN APPUCATIONS BY SEPT.2TTH. QUESTIONS CALL JANET SIIC-11341  Mllrk o.ntuono: Yoor number's not listed. What is it? Tom  
venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob  DEATHBED. PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE  Eric at 1966  
Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman In the ROTC Building. (23H264) Are yoo in need of FINANCIAL AID? Leadership Training! Challenge! Ad­venture! SCHOLARSHIPS! See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239-6264) TYPING SERVICE 2n-6045 PICK UP AND DELIVERY SERVICE  THANKSKIM4114 REWARD: LOST CANON SURE SHOT CAMERA IN THE STADIUM ON SAT. AROUND SEC. 28. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4389. LOST:! PAIR PENNY LOAFERs­REWARD-KEVIN 3828  I NEED 2 MIAMI TIX. CALL DAVE D. AT 1801. Need Miami tickets. Will trade South Carolina. Call John at the cave. 3467. MIAMI TIX-I NEED THREE STUD OR GA. DESPERATE-MONEY IS NO OB­JECT!! DAVE X4057 NEED 2 OR 4 MIAMI. GA'S, PLEASE CALL TIMOAT287-8264  Need 2 stud tix for Miami game Call John 2835 ································································ NEED 3 Air Force Tix for WEAL THY Alumf St. or GA, call Kevin ]3024 PERSONALS  APIa a dirty~­Sometimes, I feel I've got to get away; Bells chime. I feel I've got to get away; And I know sometimes I Must get out of the line; Bener /eave her behind; When the kids are alright.  THE LAWS OF MR. GOODWENCH (The Naive NO Fefnale Law) NO Women?? are the only people who think that a Wang is just a computer .... and that Tang is just a breakfast drink!!!(Are yoo sliM oot there. Mrs. Goodfrench ??) Mikey-Happy Birthday to yoo Happy Birthday to yoo Happy Birthday Dirty Laundry Happy Birthday to yoo. Love Mom. Norm. and the Beav. Blisters Sisters Forever  
LOST: REDDISH BROWN WALLET loet  Need 2 GA Air Force TIX. CBII Martha at  -The Who  
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. GOVER~ IIENT? GET THE FACTS TODAY! CALL 1-312-742-1142, EXT. 73111. Need T-shirts. Sweats, JerMys, etc??? call ALL SPORTS for the best buylll (312) 281-6886 BOOKS BOUGHT. SOLD.AND TRADE!! Present this ad and receive an extra 10/ OFF store booka. PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342  on 9/21 at Angela or be-n NO & SMC. II yoo find It, save a !He(mine). I'm getting sharp hunger pains. PLEASE Call Dave at283-1475 LOST: 5 KEYS ON A SIMPLE RING. 2 HAVE 264 STAMPED ON THEM. $$REWARD IF RETURNED! PLEASE CALL 283-1476 THANKS! LOST:SHARP GHETTO BLASTER AT BIG BROS. CONCESSION STAND SAT. ROOMIE WIU KIU ME. GREAT REWARD OFFERRED!!I CALL JOHN 1773.  284-5120 Notre Dame Alum will pay $100 for 6 AIR FORCE GA's. Please caN 2n-B653. FACT: The Air Force game is coming up soon. FACT: Two people I know are coming up soon. FACT: They don't have tickets, but want toseethegarne. FACT: I need two tickets. FACT: My name is MATT.I cany a bedge. CONCLUSION: If yoo don't call 25n soon and sail me two GA'a to the Air Force game, I'm going to do something terrible toyoordog.  Keep your fingers Out of my eye. While I write. /like to glance At the bunerllles In glass That are all around the walls. !Ill I NEED MIAMI TICKETS 11111!1 ANNE 2822 Marc Ramirez-Madder Than Mad In '84 OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,  Evil lurks where you /east expect it. The Ray and Pete Serial2 Hey. guys, who left their mark in the Sink? Does anyone remember? Pete, get a real state I GREG. AMY still wants to try. She still thinks she can make yoo change. Give her a chance. Go ahead. make her day! Go Camp! Beat LSATsl LSATs ... DEAD!  Bonnie. Happy 20th Birthday. Love, Melody ]325-i wish friday night woold have been better. i'm glad yoo like the tape. she's lucky to have yoo. s. TO'O.D.' (365 Dillon) Yoo're a great guy! A secret edmirer Thanks a miNion Meri and Second Se­mester Girls on 3RS: K-MC2-KL-K-D-D­J.P-G-5-Tl! I LOVE YOU ALL-Yoor the best!! Eunice DAVE AND RICK Warning: Do not walk on campus without pillow in hand. I will strike at any time! beeuly.braina.and  
0 THE NEW YORK TIMES! It's not too late to aublcribe to the New York Times. Fac­ulty. undergraduates. graduate students. law students. and staff personnel can have the Times delivered anywhere on campus(Dorm room, office. carrel, mail­box. department olfice,ect.,) for only 35 cents on -.!ays. $2.50 on Sundays. Contact George Devenny at 145 Stanford-283-2094.  WANTED SOPHMORES! Interested in becoming an Army Olficer? Interested in Scholar­ships? See LTC Bob Skinner or CPT Anne Rieman in the ROTC Building. (239­6264) HELP WANTED TIPPECANOE PLACE RESTAURANT SEEKING PART TIME KITCHEN HELP. PREP. OF SALADS  MY GRANDPARENTS WIU COME VISIT ME IF I CAN GET THEM 2 PENN STATE GA TIX. PLEASE HELP!$$$ Col­leen3735 MIAMI TICKETS NEEDED 2 Miami GA's needed. Call Mike at 1740. NEED 2 MIAMI GA'S CAU PETER -4606 HELP AN ND STUDENT GET A JOBI  CARRYOUTT03A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BlOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. I'UDIE4YOU /'U.DIE4 YOU I'LL DIE 4 YOU Woold you die for me? PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CALL 234· 0383. 24 hoor hotline/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER Q. Who's the biggest weiner on SKID ROW? A.Yoo-Nickl  Lucy, I think I'd Hke to get to know you better, if I only had the chance. Should I come over to PW or do you want to meet some otherplace? An admirer Annmerie-what did I do to upset you? I'm sorry. Organizational Meeting Tonight for the SoctaJ AltamMlve Qub Howerd Hall Social Space • 7:00  style-her father I know we both tUe SOtr)', /know we both stiM care, Oh. how could we have lost it? A love beyond compere? -John Denver Rosa and Rich-good luck with yoor inter­views!!! Laura -good luck with your JPW Inter· view!!! • yoo can do it!!!  
TYPING Jackie Boggs 684-8793  PASTRIES ETC. APPLY IN PERSON 620 W. WASH. ALAN MARTUNEAC EXEC. CHEF ................................................................  IIY FUTURE BOSS(?) NEEDS 4 QA IIIAIII TIX. MONEY IS NO OIIJECTI CALL LARRY (283-2015)  Y}:soP.HCiiOi:ies~'-1~j;;·~~~;;;;;;;;;b~ii,  LET'S GO CRAZY Dance  HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY TO ONE 'AWESOME GOD'. CAU 1961 FOR A 'HEAVENLY' EXPERIENCE!!!  
ATTENTION PAUL IIANGELSIII Happy Birthday!!! So yoo thooght I'd forget huh! Have a great one! The 'EPITOME' on pg. 22 LOST/FOUND I LOST: KEYS. Coat of Arms key ring; Room 259; Marit x1154 FOUND: Tortoise shell. glasses in pink Pearle Vision Center case. Foond at Madeleva shuttle stop, Sept. 20. Cal1284­5136.  I need a ride to East Lansing Friday. Sept. 28 as early as possible. Returning Sun­day Sept. 30 whenever. Call me at 283­1810. PLEASE! MISS YOUR HORSES, ANYONE? How woold yoo like to green-break some yoong Arabian colts and fillies to laad. load. tie. line-drive and introduce to saddle? Breeders of Arabian horses for 48 years. Ten minutes from Notre Dame by car. II interested. phone 272-3097. Gina Manion. I need a math tutor about 4 days a week 1 to 2 hoors a day., $3.00 an hoor. Call Leslie 284-4387 NEED RIDE TO O'HARE ON FRI. 9/28. CALL LESLIE(1289) OR AMY(1339) IF YOU CAN HELP.  WANT TWO MIZZOU TIX? CALL 4001 SOUTH CAROLINA tickets needed. 3 GAs together. Call Todd X1888 !HELP! Desparately need 1 Miami Tktl Call Mary Beth 284-4366 NEEDED: 4 SC GA's and 4 STUD tix. Call 1250 1 MIAMI STUD TICKET NEEDED -call Katie in morning 1514 NEED MIAMI GA'S $$$$ RALPH 1486 $$$$ NEED THREE AIR FORCE GA'S RALPH 1486 IIIAIII QA'S FOR SALE. CALL MIKE _ AFTER II Pll. 234-6253  to the Class of '8711 Submit a design idea for the official class t-shirt to Chris Britt. rm. 161 Dillon. The design ahoold be in one color and include a beck and front Dillon is the only Animal Hoose with a// sheep. heyPit1, Where have yoo been holing up, scruff? Wanted to wish yoo good luck in person, but I haven't been able to lind yoo, How about celebrating afterward? (will I have to call yoo Doc then?!) Good luck!!! Thumper p.s. don't look so surprised! SENIORS STIU UNDECIDED ABOUT THE SENIOR TRIP? WOULD $25 OFF THE PRICE HELP? TAKE OVER MY $100 DEPOSIT FOR $25! CALL KATHY- Saturday, Sept. 29 9:00 p.m.-2:00a.m. SMC Haggar Center $1.00 admiasion Sponsored by the Social Alternative Club Mike-Thank yoo for calling me Friday night. Not many guys woold do that. I really appreciated yoor kindness. D. TOGA CASUALTIES:2 DePAUL DUDES FOUND IN BUSHES,SHAVED EYEBROWS.NO ARM HAIRS.GIRL FOUND IN CLOSET.SIX PILES OF MR.HICKEY. KAMAKAZEES HAV NO FRENDS SHAVED HEAD. JIMB(). RAZORMAN IT WAS A TOGA IT WAS CAUED 4.AGIN. $$ WANT TO EARN SOME EXTRA  Bill the C&t for President I!! ACK ACK! Happy Birthday Uttle Nanerd! The Bronxer is 19! H-Luv Cor JANICE FRIDAY NIGHT WAS GREAT! 'I WONDER WHAT THEY BUILT THIS PLACE FOR?' WAS I RIGHT? LOVE, JOHN CINDY LOU HOO HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY! 'I SWEAR I'U BE HOME BY 7:30­TOMORROW MORNING!; WHO SHARED YOUR BED IN INDY?; HERE WE GO; 9/21­QUARTERLY EM(). TIONAL BREAKDOWN; SUEDE VESTfl NAIL MARKS NILES GOD/MAN; Y'AU. WHICH BELT SHOULD I WEAR?; TELL US IF TIM IS AS GOOD IN THE KITCHEN AS HE IS OUT OF THE KITCHEN!' LOVE. DIANE. KARIEANDANNE  
2661.  MONEY ? $$ CATERING HELP IS  
LOST: Wooden cane nNr the handi­capped part<ing space In front of the Law School. If foond please call John Mauel at  FOR SALE  I HAVE IIIAIII STUD. TIX-WILL TRADE FOR PENN. STATE G.A. TIX CALL 717­7570  HAVE YOU HUGGED YOUR CERENKOV COUNTER TODAY?  NEEDED AT SMC CALL JULIE AT 2n­4660 ANYTIME FROM 7pm-10pm  HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY TO USA YOUNG. FROM YOUR FAVORITE CALIFORNIAN  
288-8057 or bring it to the Law School.  ATTENTION  LYONS  DELIVERY  
LOST:KEYSON'ND'RINGATOATE10 ACC OR FITZ. 2NO FLOOR. CAU Till  ICE HOCKEY EQUIPMENT (COMPLETE SET-SKATES) PHONE  WANTED:2 MIAMI TICKETS-·MONEY IS NOT THE QUESTION---KEVIN 3828  Help! I am in need of a rida to or near Minn. on the weekend of Sept. 28 will share e~. Call284-5524  GIRLS!!! Helluva job,girfs. (But mums the word,right??) Love, Marty  JENNIFER CONLON IS NOW 18 !I! HAPPY BIRTHDAY! (SORRY I'M LATE) H. H.  
112543.  STEVE2742  HEY GRETCHEN !I! How about some  
~ooN-~i·;;·;,·di~;;;;;;;;;·~i-si';;~ at 2647-need description  DESPERATELY need ride to MIZZOU; if you can help. call Kim 4174  I NEED ONE MIAMI TICKET-Student or GA-willing to pay BUCKS $$$$. Call Frank at 2043.  Riders needed to IU Bloomington 9/28­9/30. Call Kathleen SMC5162.  warning belore yoo throw yoorsell in my arms next time?!-a (pleuantly) auprilad orgo claasmate.  Mike Sauly Outland Trophy shoo-in and strong Heisman candidate. Fretch (fresh) Saas. Stay lrish.-Madam X  
'''''''"''''''''''''''''''"::.~I...'.'""'"L"'':._.I.'•o:~~-.l'"'"l •1. •.t '11. 1&.• ...'1.~ .....'&•'r'Y.,•i!r•A,o""'•'t(•f\•"'-"""''\'~"~'~' .., "i "·  '· •;..-·p,·,..~ ..:•:•:·..·•·-.•·.,.:•·-r·9'·'W'"f"..'•'"" • •  "'·•·-·•··•··•··..·•··•""''•·-9··•••·-·•·•·••••..•  


The Observer Tuesday, September 25, 1984-page 9 
It was a day when more memories dominating in the first half, as Dan were reklndled in Denver, where Hampton led a furious pass rush that 
Plunkett passes for 367 yards 
the Broncos improved their record had Seattle quarterback Dave Krieg to 3-1 in a manner reminiscent ofthe scurrying all over the field. 
Raiders remain undefeated, 33-30 
Assoclated Press The score overcame a 17-point season home attendance for the spurt by San Diego in 3:21 early in Raiders since they moved to Los An­

NFL Standings 
LOS ANGELES · Marcus Allen's the fourth quarter, capped by geles in ·1982. fourth touchdown of the game, a linebacker Woodrow Lowe's 32­one-yard dive with 45 seconds yard return of a tipped Plunkett pass 
remaining last night, gave Los An­for a touchdown.
NATIOHALFOOTBALLLEAOUE 

Irish
AMERICAN CONFERENCE NAnONAL CONFERENCE 

geles a 33-30 victory over the San The Chargers also got an out­
EMI Eut 
Diego Chargers that kept the Raiders standing performance from second­
w L T Pet. PF PA w L T Pet. PF PA 
continuedfrom page 12 
Dallaa 3 1 0 .750 70 64 Miami 4 0 01.000 128 48 
unbeaten and extended their bril­year running back Earnest Jackson, 
N. Y Giants 3 I 0 .750 87 78 N.Y. Jets 3 1 0 .750 111 86 
liant record in Monday night foot­the replacement for the troubled "Central Michigan is supposed to 
St. louts 2 2 0 .500 118 98 New England 2 2 0 .500 89 122 Wuhington 2 2 0 .500 104 96 Indianapolis 1 3 0 .385 89 122 
ball. Chuck Muncie and the traded Pete be a very good team," said Lambert. 
Buffalo 0 4 0 .000 67 107Philadelphia 1 3 0 .439 72 92 
Allen's winning touchdown, his Johnson. Jackson rushed for 155 "They're pushing Western Michigan
Central Ch1cago 3 1 0 750 79 59 Pittsburgh 2 2 0 .500 84 88 
Central 

second of the fourth quarter, came yards on 29 carries, the best rushing (the top team in the Midwest) for Minnesota 2 2 0 .500 86 109 Cleveland 1 3 
0 .250 51 87 

after a 10-play, 76-yard drive en­performance against the Raiders, 4-their conference title. It'll be no pic­
Detr<lll 1 3 0 .250 99 104 Cincinnati 0 4 0 .000 76 114 Green Bay 1 3 0 .250 44 80 Houston 0 4 0 .000 59 132 
gineered byJim Plunkett, the much­0, since 1978. nic tomorrow. I hope we can play Tampa Bay 1 3 0 .250 82 85 
WMI 

maligned but effective Raiders But the Chargers' record fell to 2-better." 
L. A. Aalders 4 0 01.000 107 71
WMI 

quarterback. Plunkett, who finished 2. Another effort like the one on Sat· 
San Francisco 4 0 01.000 118 87 Denver 3 1 0 .750 65 58 Atlanta 2 2 0 .500 122 92 
Seattle 3 1 0 .750 125 64 
the game by completing 24 of 33 The victory was the 21st in 24 urday will certainly lead to quick 
L.A. Rams 2 2 0 .500 71 75 KansasCIIy 2 2 0 .500 84 92 
passes for 367 yards, took the Monday night games for the Raiders, defeat. But ifthe Irish can pick them­
New0<1eans 2 2 0 .500 99 103 San Diego 2 2 0 .500 120 91 
Raiders down the field in 2:56 with a who arc now 21-2-1 on Monday selves up and play strong, consistent 
YMterdlly'a Reeulta 

series of short passes to tight end night since 1970. The crowd of volleyball, the match should prove
L A Raiders 33. San Diego 30 
Todd Christensen and Allen. 76,141 was the largest regular-to be a close one. 
,..~··································8 ..
* uy . ,..
Attention All Sophomores_ 
: Observer : 
interested in 



: classifieds: 
t•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
1985-1986 SUMMER PROGRAMS
Arts and Letters 

ND-SMC STUDENTS 

London Program 

LONOON 
ROME 
ay22·June2 June 16 ·July 15 
Wednesday, September 26, 1984 
Travel in lrelond Troueli1 france 
7:30p.m., Library Auditorium 

Scotland &ff'GIIC2 Gennangi~..erland Program faculty, staff, and former students 
Courses In Art, Business and Economics, EclucaHon will be present to explain curriculum, calendar 
English, History and nallan ~. ).l
~. 
j
and selection procedures. All sophomores interested in the program are urged to attend. 

Informational meeting: Oct. 3rd _.. ­Rm 232 Moreau (SMC) ,·.~~-{
A question and answer session will follow the formal presentation. Students can also add 
.!<,._f~ . ! 
~~ .·•'
their names to the mailing list by signing up in 

For further info. call --_; L'-\ 
133 O'Shaughnessy. 

Prof. A.A. Black 
4460 or 272-3726 -...~-q~
1 · 



So far, defense the key for NFL's top winners 
Aas<KiatedPrcss 
'Ibe adage that a team wins with defense ha~ returned to the National Football league -for one day at least. 
After several years of routine 41­38 games, primarily a product of the 1978 rule changes allowing defen­sive backs only one bump and only within five yards of the line of scrimmage, the defensive players are starting to get revenge. The pri­mary tools are complex pass rushes with linemen stunting and lineback­ers looping out of disguised varia­tions of 3-4 and nickel defenses. 
Sunday wa~ a good example. 
It was a day in which five touchdowns were scored by defenders -three by members of the Seattle Seahawks in a 38-9 rout of the Chicago Bears. 
It wa~ a day in whi1.:h the Dallas Cowboys knocked Green Bay quar­terback lynn Dickey out of the game; sacking Dickey and backup Randy Wright six times, and holding the Packers to 77 yards passing in a 20-6 victory. How did Green Bay score? On an intercepted pass by de­fensive end Robert Brown. 
"Our defensive line did a great job rushing without a blitz," said Coach Tom Landry, adding that this Cow­boys' defense finally is beginning to remind him of the team's defenses of a decade ago. 
Orange Crush defense that took them to the Super Bowl in , 977. Their 21-0 victory over Kansas City, fashioned primarily by a pass rush that kept Chiefs' quarterback Todd Blackledge constantly off balance, was their first shutout since 1981. 
It was a day on which Lawrence Taylor dominated the New York Giants' opposition for the second time in three weeks, registering four sacks on a variety of blitzes as the Giants defeated Tampa Bay 17-14. "I · was wide open wherever I came from," Taylor said. "I think I'm in­visible." 
'!be most overpowering defen­sive game wa~ at Seattle, where the Seahawks' defense took the atten­tion away from Chicago's Walter Payton, who cruised by Seattle's Franco Harris in their head-to-head meeting en route to Jim Brown's all­time rushing record. 
Seattle scored 24 of its 38 points on dHense -on interception returns by Keith Simpson and Terry Jackson, a fumble recovery in the end zone by defensive tackle Joe Nash, and a blocked punt that set up a field goal by Norm Anderson. 
Despite all those points, the Scahawks had only 36 net yards in the first half and 203 for the game. In fact, the Chicago defense, which had allowed only 21 points in its first three games, was even more 

players have been getting revenge for the 1978 NFL rule changes which gave more freedom to receivers and quarterbacks. Story is at left. 
The Observer Tuesday, September 25, 1984-page 10 

title was the first ofany kind for the Cubs since 1945. For more details, see story atright. 
Fourteen-year career ends 
Lanier announces retirement 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Milwaukee Bucks center Bob Lanier announced his re­tirement yesterday afternoon, en­ding a 14-year quest for a National Basketball Association champion­ship ring. 
"Today's decision is the result ofa great deal of mind-and soul­searching for me," Lanier said in a release distributed at a news confer­ence. "I wanted to be a productive part of the team, I wanted to make a difference if I played, and I am not sure that I could get through an­other season. A part of me still lusts for the challenge, but my mind tells me it's time." 


Interhall 
continued/rom page 12 
will resume their bitter rivalry with Dillon. In the other Parseghian contest, Off-Campus surprised Grace, 7-0. 
Field goal kicking was the key in the two Leahy division games. Zahm's Andy Richardson popped a 35-yarder in the second quarter and the Zahm defense did the rest shut­ting out Cavanaugh, 3-0. 
Stanford took a sidestep in its at­tempt to defend the Leahy crown as it tied Alumni 3-3. Stanford's Dan O'Donnel kicked a dramatic 38-yard field goal in the last minute to offset a 40-yarder by Alumni's Joe Coogan in the third quarter. 
In the Rockne division, both defending champ Howard and Pangborn failed to muster much of­fense as they fought to a 0-0 tie. Howard benefited from three 
~ry's 
BACK! 
Beginning Monday in The Observer 
Lanier scored 19,248 points over until he gave up the post ot presi­his career, ranking 12th on the all­dent of the NBA players association time list, and grabbed 9,698 last week in Chicago that it strongly rebounds. appeared he would quit. 
Lanier, who underwent surgery Lanier, who turned 36 two weeks on his knees eight times during his ago, was named to play in the NBA career, was acquired by the Bucks in All-Star game eight times, earning a trade with the Detroit Pistons mid­Most Valuable Player honors in way through the 1980 season. He 1974. spent his first nine years with the Pis­tons after being drafted in the first · But Lanier's primary motivation round iq 1970 out of St. since joining the Milwaukee Bucks Bonaventure. was to win the league champion­
ship. He came close the past two 
There was speculation through­seasons, as the Bucks lost in the Eas­out last season that the powerful 6-tern Conference finals to the foot-1 0, 265-pound pivotman would· Philadephia 76ers in 1983 and Bos­leave the game. However, it wasn't ton Celtics in 1984. 
Pangborn turnovers but failed to game next Sunday, look for other ex­
capitalize on them as Pangborn's citing Parseghian division games as 
defense held strong. Howard had Off-Campus goes for its second win 
one field goal attempt blocked and against Keenan at 4 p.m. and Flanner 
missed two others, one with 30 plays Grace in the battle of the tow­
seconds to go in the game. ers at 3 p.m. 
Sorin, on the other hand, had an 

easier time of it, downing Carroll, In the Leahy division, Stanford 
12-0. The big Sorin line opened up faces Zahm at 2 p.m. and Holy Cross 
some good holes as tailback Sean opens its season against Cavanaugh 
Garrett ran for a 40-yatd score and at 1 p.m. 

John Cowden added asecond touch­The Rockne division has St. Ed's 
down on a 20-yard sweep. opening up with Sorin at 2 p.m. and 
Along with the Dillon/Morrissey Pangborn taking on Carroll at 3 p.m. 
···~·~··························• : • ~ir Richard}s 
Hairstyling for MEN and WOMEN 

• 
"'-Walk-ins Welcome For appointment call 277-0734 

•
FORYOUR ,, PLANTNEEDS ,


It . 
,~,~~l's


,JtD

G Mon -Sat 12:30-5:3 
DIAL 283-4242 
Chicago takes NL East with 4-1 win over Dues 
Associated Press catcher Jody Davis. "I've been here 
four years and we just got bear on a 
PITTSBURGH · "The magic num-lot of the time. The only thought I ber," yelled jubilant Chicago Cubs have now is that we're the be1>t. Is pitcher Rick Sutcliffe, "is zero, zero, there any doubt now? What's the zero!" magic number now?" 
A banner, one of dozens spotted "This is why you go to spring last night in a Three Rivers Stadium training in February, this is the that thousands of Chicago fans • longest step," said centerfielder Bob 
helped turn into Wrigley Field-East, boasted "The magic number is 1984!" 
Whatever the number, the Cubs ended a magical, Cinderella season with a 4-1 victory over the Pit­tsburgh Pirates that clinched the Na­tiona! League East championship and their first title of any kind since 1945. 
In a champagne-splattered locker room afterwards, the Cubs couldn't wait to heap praise and pour beer on each other to celebrate a title that many in baseball thought would never come to a team that still plays ail-day baseball at home. 
"They said a team that played in the day couldn't win. Well, we proved them wrong," said jubilant Manager Jim Frey, who did in one season what a score ofpredecessors couldn't do-bring a title to Chicago. 
"This is just unbelieveable," said 

McCabe 
continuedfrompage 12 
One might think that with all the po­sition juggling taking place, it may be difficult for a player to concen­trate on a new position. But the coaches are very pleased with McCabe's progress. 
"Initially I was not convinced John could play at the inside linebacking position," says lineback­ing coach George Kelly. "And I'll ad­mit, he had some trouble adjusting at first. But John studied the films in­tently this summer and worked so hard, any improvement that has taken place is all due to his own ef­forts." 
This hard work and dedicated atti­tude culminated in last Saturday's performance against the Buffalos of Colorado. Entering the game late in the second half, McCabe finished the game as the team's leading tackler, wrestling down the opponent 10 times, six ofwhich were unassisted. 
"I am so pleased with his perfor-Dernier, acquired with left fielder Garry Matthews in a key late-spring deal. "This is step one, now we're ready for step two," a reference to the NL playoffs against the San Diego Padres that begin next week. 
The Cubs, who spent six months enjoying the cheers of the two million-plus who jammed Wrigley Field, spent 15 minutes cheering their fans in a nearly deserted stadium 90 minutes after the title was won. 
As the scoreboard flashed a live 1V picture of thousands of revelers jamming the streets outside Wrigley Field, a dozen Cubs watched in glee, slapping high fives and toasting the crowd with champagne. 
"I wish we could have won this in Chicago in front of our fans," Frey said. "But I'm just happy we were able to do this for our fans. This is just a wonderful, wonderful feeling." 
mance," says Coach Kelly. "He did a fine job and I'm very happy he got to play. He deserves it after working so hard. 
"I'm happy that I got some actual game experience," echoes McCabe. "Anything good that happens gives me some hope for the future. But I only wish we (the second team defense) could have held Colorado scoreless. I'm satisfied with my play, but I'll never be totally satisfied un­til I earn a statting position. I'll just wait in the wings till then and keep working at it." 
With this strive for perfection atti­tude and his dedication to the game, John McCabe really doesn't need to swallow any pride, and it certainly looks as though the future will be bright both on and off the football field. 


ARCHAEOLOGY MAJORS DIG DOMINO'S PIZZA 
277-2151 
Two Free Cokes®  Get two free Cokes'" with any pizza. One coupon per pizza.  
Fast, Free Delivery'"  
Plaza 23 Center  




~4CJt4tllC3l~--------------------------------------•T•u•e•sd_a_y_,_se_p_t_e_m_b_e_r_z_s_,_l.98·4----p-ag_e
__l_l 

Bloom County 
Berke Breathed 

EvtN THe 8f<6trrHTIIK/N6 
RXtnCII~,~~OSOPHICA~ 
flNP /?fl./610(/5 IMPUCIITIONS Of 1111!3 111?6 PWIIffftP BY 1llff Bl?fRTHTI/KIN& IMPUCII­170NS OF txft.IIINING THIS 
Tank McNamara 

Octavio The Far Side Gary Larson 


AND WHAT DO IIIIE HAVE /N'51DE 1 Bu-r A t-IELPL£5:::. LITTLE 
~ 
0 


Jl 
Murray dldn~ feel the first pangs of real panic until he pulled the emergency cord. 
Campus 

•12 
· 1:30 p.m. -Kellogg Seminar, "The Cor· poratlzing Labor? Unions and Political Uberaliza. tion in Brazil," Prof. A maury deSouza, ND, Room 131 Decio Hall. 

•3:30 
p.m.-Medievallnsdtute Lecture, "Peter Abelard In Recent Scholarship," David Luscombe, University of Sheffield, England, Room 715 Memorial library. 

•3:30 
·4:30p.m. -Computer Minicourse, TSO, Third Session, Room 23 CCMB, Available to the Public, Free. 

•7 
p.m.-Meeting, Ground Zero Meeting, Center for Social Concerns. 

•7, 
9 & 11 p.m.-SAB Fllm, "Dirty Harry," Engineer· ing Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Actlvites Board, $1. 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture and Discussion,"An Introduc· 


• 

tion to Natural Family Planning," Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by University Ministry, Free. 
•7:30p.m.-TuesdayNightFllmSeries, 
"Diary of a Country Priest," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•8 
p.m. -TheologyLecture, "Biblical Theology as a Problem ofJewish·Christian Relations," Prof. Rolf Pendtorff, Professor of Old Testament, University ofHeidelberg, Germany, Ubrary Auditorium. 



TV Tonight 
7:00p.m. 16 TheA·Team(2hours) 
22 Aftermash 
28 Foul-Ups 
7:30p.m. 22 E.R. 

28 Three's a Crowd 
8:00p.m. 22 Movie· Mistral's Daughter 
28 Paper Dolls 
34 Nova 

9:00p.m. 16 Remington Steele 
28 jessie 

34 Vietnam: A Television History 
10:00p.m. 16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 The Constitution: That Delicate Bat· 
ance 

10:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Campaign '84 Specials 28 ABC News Nightllne 
11:00 p.m. 22 McGarrett/Columbo 28 Love Connection 34 Movie · Dark Victory 
11:30 p.m. 16 Late Night With David Letterman 12:30a.m. 16 AlllnTheFamily 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 38 Prison 4 Cutting tool 37 Bondage 46 Kind of beer 1 Sheriff's group 39 Make a mistake 5 Author Hunter 38 Grossly stupid 
47 Hollimanor 6 Cuffs 40 Dissolve 
39 Surface layers Carter 
11 Cuban coin 42 Declaim 6 Pilfered of earth 48 Rodents 13 Roused to violently 
7 lt. coin 41 Lock of hair 50 Tinyaction 43 Fatty tissue 8 Curved part 43 Searches 52 Part of a 15 Certain 44 Elevator cage 9 Placing a cost carefully shoe 
Canadian 45 Fire residue on 16 Piggish 46 One under par 1 0 Sp. gentlemen 
Monday's S?lution 
17 Gray 48 Excite 
11 Seaside 18 Cloudllke mass 49 Play for 12 Moiety20 Temporary bed admiration 13 Froth 51 Indigenes
21 Haggard 14 Discourage
53 Culls
heroine through fear 22 Habitat 19 Reinforced
54 Certain 23 Wheel covering storekeepers 23 Bicycle with 24 Roman cloak 55 Looks for 
two seats 

26 Anemlc·looking 56 Suspicious 27 Rattan worker 
25 Intense 28 Imposing 26 Reimbursed entrances 27 Utters sweetly 30 Jerome Kern DOWN 29 Journeycreations 1 Where to buy a 30 Cleanser 31 Flotsam dog 32 Author's output 

© 1984 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 9/25/84relative 2 Moving 33 Cuts All Rights Reserved
33 Haste constantly 34 Tiny puncture 35 Desk Items 3 Remain 36 Rally 
-· 


Hours: 12:30-5:30 p.m. 
Dial283-4242 to place an order 
------~------------.-­
Tuesday, September 25, 1984-page 12 
Volleyball team beaten 



by hapless Wisconsin 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN and a quick offense to defeat the Sports Writer Blue Demons on Friday, but could come up with nothing ofthe son the 
Things were looking up for the next night, as the Badgers took con­Notre Dame volleyball team after an trol early and never relinquished it. impressive win over Depaul on After traveling to Central Mic­Friday in the ACC. But the Irish lost higan tonight, the Irish will have something the next day as they played seven of their last eight away travelled to meet the University of from home. Lambert feels this travel Wisconsin, and they promptly schedule is beginning to show its ef­turned in one of their worst efforts fects, and is looking forward to more of the season. home games as the season winds 
The rebuilding Wisconsin tea,m down.. whipped the Irish in four games: 1 5-"I'm getting sick of the road 13, 15-3, 9-15, and 15-13. The loss show," said Lambert. "It just seems 
" dropped the Irish to 4-5 on the as ifwe're (away from home) all the season, and head coach Art Lambert time. It'll be nice to play more at harbored strong feelings on his home." team's unimpressive play. After theirpoorperformance over 
"Wisconsin's terrible," said Lam­the weekend, the Irish will try to bert. "I mean, they're 2-12. But we regroup in time for an away match were horrible. Ifwe had played like against a strong Central Michigan we had Friday, it would have been squad tonight, where they will try to no contest. But we played like dog­climb back to .500 again. meat. We stunk the joint out." 
The Irish had used strong defense see IRISH, page 9 
Dillon downs Planner, interhall season begins 
By BRIAN McCARTHY Larry Diedrick. However, the Dillon Sports Writer defense, which has not been scored on in two years, refused to brea~. 
Due to the third schedule change Flanner's big threat came late in the in two weeks by the Non-Varsity game as quarterback Tim Arnold Athletics office, the pivotal Dil­kept the ball on the option and lon/Flanner interhall football game streaked about 25 yards to the Dil­was played Sunday instead ofthe last lon 20-yard-line. week ofthe season. 
Nevertheles.o: the game provided The Dillon defense recovered two the close, emotional battle that was plays later as Stosh Marczyk broke anticipated as Dillon won by a through and sacked Arnold for a 15­repeat oflast year's score, 3-0. yard loss. A desperation 52-yard 
Senior Josie Maternowski bas been one of the Tough defense marked the first field goal attempt by Flanner failed bright spots for the Notre Dame volleyball team halfuntil Dillon running back Scotty to get off the ground and the game this year, but not even she could help the Irish as Dentivenga took an opti9n pitch was Dillon's. the Badgers ofWisconsin defeated Notre Dame in from quarterback Brendan Coughlin In another Parseghian Division 
and raced about fifty yards to the game, Morrissey trounced Keenan Flanner 10-yard-line. by the shocking score of 29-0. Mor­Two plays later Flanner picked off rissey quarterback Jeff Henry con­
First loss of season 
a Dillon pass but the turnover was nected with freshman tight end 
nullified by a blatant interference Steve Beerman for three touch­
penalty. With time running out in downs, the longest covering 4 5 
Irish fall to top-ranked Indiana 
the first half, Dillon decided to settle yards. 
for a 27-yard field goal which gave Dan Faulter scored the final Mor­ByPHnWOLF When Indiana regained the offen­ball for long, though, and soon the Dillon the only points they would rissey TD on a 15-yard run and Ted AssistQnt Sports Editor sive momentum at about 22:15, for­Hoosiers were taking another cor­need. Gradel contributed two intercep­
ward Rodrigo Castro blasted a shot ner kick. This time, the cross from In the second half, the Flanner of­tions and booted three extra points. 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind-The Notre from I 0 yards, and again Steranka the right corner went to the far side fense showed some promise of Next Sunday at 1 p.m., Morrissey Dame soccer team received its first was there for the save. Castro shot scoringbehind the strong running of loss ofthe season Sunday night at the wide of the goal a couple minutes see SOCCER, page 8 tailback J6e Arnold and fullback see INTERHALL, page 10 hands of two-time defending na­later, and Notre Dame came back on tional champion Indiana University the attack at Bill Armstrong Stadium in The Irish were awarded a corner 
Linebacker strives for perfection 
Bloomington. kick at 26:00, andJoe Howe took the The Irish, who carried a 6-0-1 kick from the left corner.. His cross record into Sunday's game, were came outside of the penalty area, 
John McCabe gets his chance 
able to play at the same level as the where Irish fullback Stuart Mac· top-ranked (nationally) Hoosiers for Donald was waiting to shootfrom 2 5 By TRISH SULLIVAN Alumni Hall resident. "So when and then gradually move up from the first half of the game, but they yards. The shot was blocked by a Sports Writer senior year rolled around I thought there. That's all I had hoped for." were not able to keep up in the Hoosier defenseman, and Herdegen I'd look into going there for school. McCabe spent his freshman year second period. A first-half Irish lead picked up the loose ball 12 yards in With the 5 5-14 drubbing of And the decision wasn't very diffi-helping out the junior varsity in the was turned into a 1-1 halftime tie front of the goal. Herdegen caught Colorado on Saturday afternoon, . cult for me -the academics of this middle lineba~:ker spot, but unfor­and eventually a 5-1 loss. IV keeper Bruce Killough flatfooted, many ofthe Irish non-starters had an place is heads above the rest and of tunately did not make the traveling 
Notre Dame came out strong and put the ball in the upper left side opportunity to perform before the course the great football back­squad. But that didn't keep him against Indiana at the start of the of the net. home crowd. One in particular was ground intrigued me. Then once I down at all. Through his hard work ,_ game, and both teams fell into a very Herdegen's goal, his seventh of inside linebackerJohn McCabe. started into practice, my goals were and dedication he found himselfas a fast-paced game. The Hoosiers were the season, gave Notre Dame a 1-0 "It was a big thrill for me to run set . . . just to help the team in any regular member of the Irish travel­the first to get off a shot, when John lead with 18:21 remaining in the onto the field and hear the fans way I could. I wanted to make the ing squad in '83. Although he did not Stollmeyer shot high over the cros­first period. It was the first time a cheer," recalls McCabe. "It's some­prep squad and travel with the team see any varsity action during that sbar at 8:47. Notre Dame team had scored on the thing I have been working for these fall's campaign, he did gain valuable 
Then, at 13:06, Tim Hylla Hoosiers since 1978, the first past few years." experience on the sidelines. received the ball in front of the Irish meeting of the two teams. Entering Notre Dame in the fall of "Sure it is difficult to sit on the goal after an Indiana throw-in, and The Irish did not have much time '82, McCabe was a highly touted bench -you have to swallow a little he sent a powerful head shot at to celebrate, however, because the linebacker and tight end. The Illinois bit of pride," confesses McCabe. goalkeeper Mark Steranka from only Hoosiers came right back at them native racked up 121 solo tackles, 35 "But I certainly learned a lot by five yards out. Steranka swallowed and soon were taking their own cor­assists, four interceptions, and 14 watching and studying my position up the shot, and sent his teammates ner kick The kick hooked in toward receptions for 161 yards in his out there. I could see the mistakes toward the Hoosier goal. the Irish goal, and Steranka tipped it senior year at Arlington High School. being made and see the coaches' 
The Irish kept possesion of the over the crossbar for another corner He was named to numerous all-state corrections. It gives you a better in­ball in Indiana's zone for about four kick. teams, and was chosen to participate sight sometimes." minutes following Steranka's spec­Again, the shot came to Steranka, in a post-season all-star game. Yet After serving predominantly at de­tacular save, and they generated a and again he tipped it over the cros­when he decided on Notre Dame for fensive end and outside linebacker 
couple of excellent scoring oppor· sbar. Finally, on the third kick, his collegiate career he found the his first two seasons, McCabe en­tunities. Forward Rich Herdegen Castro took a shot wide of the goal, going a little tougher. tered this fall as backup to Tony Fur­
just missed the goal with a head shot and Notre Dame once again had pos­"Growing up in the Chicago area, janie at the inside linebacking slot. 
from 10 yards, and midfielder Chris session. I had always been exposed to Notre 
Telk shot wide left from 20 yards. The Irish could not hold on to the Dame and its tradition," explains the see McCABE, page 10 







