
Sports Extra page 12 


FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1984 

Terrorists kill American official on hijacked jet in Iran 
Associated Press Development, apparently had been Tuesday en route from Kuwait to in Pakistan and later said he was an copilot who were apparently suffer­
killed by the hijackers. Karachi, Pakistan. employee at the American consulate ing from exhaustion. 
Gunmen holding a hijacked jet­llle State Department added, After killing at least one other pas­in Karachi, Pakistan. "Speaking through the 
liner at the Tehran airport yesterday however, that "we cannot ab­senger yesterday, the hijackers The State Department, however, loudspeaker, the American pa~­
killed at lea~t two more passengers, solutely confirm that the murders pushed two men out the aircraft said neither the U.S. consul nor any senger said, 'Tell the Kuwait aut­
including an American official who took place, nor can we absolutely door onto the platform atop a set of of the consul employees from Pakis­horities to provide the hijackers 
was forced out the door and cut confirm the identities of these indi­landing steps. One ofthem asked for tan was on the plane, and the only with a pilot and copilot because they 
down by six shots, the official viduals and officially release their a loudspeaker, identified himself as U.S. officials known to be aboard are serious about their threats,' " 
Iranian news agency reported. names." the U.S. consul in Pakistan and were the AID representatives. IRNA said. The news agency said the 
'Ille slaying,o; brought to at least State Department spokesman pleaded with authorities to meet the The hijackers have been demand­man wa~ then shot six times. 
three the number of reported since Jonathan Brecht said there was a hijackers' demands, IRNA said. ing the release of a group of llle hijackers then threatened to 
the plane wa~ hijacked Tuesday. "strong possibility" that an Ameri­IRNA said an ambulance crew had prisoners in Kuwait, but the pas­shoot the other man, a Kuwaiti stew· 
In Washington, the State Depart­can was the first passenger killed recovered the man's body. The senger specifically mentioned a new ard, if a new flight crew Is not pro­
ment said two Americans, both offi­shortly after the hijackers comman­agency initially reported that he had demand for a fresh flight crew to vided. The hijackers earlier 
cials of the Agency for International deered the Kuwait Airways flight identified himself as the U.S. consul replace the British pilot and the threatened to blow up the plane. 

St. Joseph United Way extends fund raising drive to reach new goal 
By MARTIN RODGERS 
News Staff 
"We cannot afford Lo fail" was the primary message of a press confer· ence held by the United Way yester­day morning in the Donor's Room of the Morris Inn. 
At the conference, the General Campaign Chairman of the United Way .Joe Woodka announced the committee of St. Joseph County had decided to extend their once a year fund raising effort. The original com­pletion datt• for the campaign, Nov. 17, was officially extended to Dec. 
I H. 
As of yesterday, the thirty-five member agencies of St. .Joseph County had raised only S.2,7:U, I';0.00 of their S.2.9 million dollar goal. "We really want to get done before the holidays. And we will...Jt is amazing what a deadline can do," said Woodka. 
He also Indicated If the United Way did fail it would mean a cutback in the services the agency could pro­vide. llle United Way funds and or­ganizes such agencies as Big Brothers/Big Sisters, Scouting, and Youth Services. It also assists the handicapped, elderly, poor, and shut-ins. 

llle United Way will be using ex­tensive advertising in all the major media~ to draw attention to the problem. 'Ille advertising cam­paign's primary slogans are "Winners Again" anti "Make It Hap­pen." In additon to the advertising effort, which will attempt to "challenge" the citizens of the area, Woodka indicated "accounts, both corporate and employee, will be resolicited." 
A fresh group of volunteers has also been recruited for the remainder of the fund drive. 
The University ofNotre Dame was 
see DRIVE, page 4 

' 
.!:...' 
.. ~­
' 
/· 
Th~ <:>bM-rver/PauJ <:lfarciU 
Dashing through the snow 
Sophomores (from left) Dan Bender, jim Sophomore Class Christmas party last night. Candy Domagalski, Maureen Connolly and Annie jen­Huff ofHappy Trails Stable in Edwardsburg, Mich. nings enjoy a horse-drawn carriage ride during the plays the role ofchauffeur. 
Annual 'Civil War' erupts in a barrage of snowballs 
Story compiled by Zahm freshman as he threw his Observer staff reporters Ice grenade. "Oh, yeah -got someone in the head." 
It was, of course, the annual A South Quad resident, about battle of snow dust, ice balls and 100 feet away from the statue, down jacket.~-Notre Dame's own fired bottle rockets over the version of a civil war, North vs. heads of the attackers. South, and it happens every year "I smell gunpowder, boys and without exception on the night girls. lllis could get ugly," said an of the first snowfall. observer to no one in particular. 
One South Quad freshman was "We can only hope so." knocked unconscious after slip­At II :3'; p.m., North Quad ping on ice in front ofFarley Hall, charged toward Dillon Hall and an ambulance was called. Se­where they met heavy resistance curity would not comment on from Dillon residents just east of the incident. the dorm. lllere, the battle 
North Quad forces, mostly turned into a hand to hand snow­male, gathered at about II:1 '; fight, creating a cloud of snow 
p.m. and chargt·d toward Dillon dust. and Alumni halls between One South Quad woman kept LaFortune Student Center and asking participants where they the Crowley Hall of Music. lived and threw snow in the face 
South Quad checked the attack of those answering, "North." in front of Father Sorin's statue South Quad torces regrouped where the two sides, about 500 and pushed the Northern attack­students in all, exchanged fire. ers back to the fieldhouse mall, 
..-llle snow's not very good for where several windows in packing, but we're trying," said a Cavanaugh Hall were broken. 

New policies change RA's position 
By SCOTI BEARBY selection, according to Dillon Rec­Discipline is regarded as an im­tor Father Mark Poorman. portant responsibility, however.
StaffReporter 

Although Goldrick said "ultimate Stephanie Korcheck, R.A. in authority does rest with the rector, Pasquerilla East, thinks a resident as­As prospective candidates for 
he may consult with the current sistant must be aware of rules and
next year's resident assistants begin the procedure to become 1985-86 R.A.'s." Poorman said he "values the University obligations. Goldrick input of the resident assistants." agrees they must be ready to enforce
R.A.'s, some rectors and R.A.'s think the role of an R.A. ha~ undergone Most halls have their head staffs try University and hall regulations or be some changes. to come to an 'agreement on R.A. se­able to refer the problem to the lection. proper staff.
According to Notre Dave Associ­

ate Vice President for Residence life The resident assistant's role is John Goldrick, no alterations have seen as being very much the same by According to the resident assis­been made in requirements for be­current R.A.'s, other hall staff, and tants interviewed, they have not had coming a resident assistant, al­the administration. 'The position is more problems enforcing rules this though candidates must now limit the lowest level of administration at year. Rick Stepien, resident a~sistant 
at Fisher Hall, said "people have

their hall choices to three this year. the University, but adds the extra di­mension ofbeing a student. been good about social gatherings." 
Three recommendations and an Badin Rector Sister Marietta All potential problems have stoppedinitial screening by the Office ofStu­after initial warnings, he added.

dent Affairs are again required this Murphy says this is a very difficult year. position to be in because "it is not 'The role of an R.A. In enforcing
After Feb. 4, all approved candi­easy to confront peers." Flanner Resident Assistant Joe rules ha'i changed, but ha-; not neces­
dates will be subjected to further in­terviews by individual hall staffs. 

Harmon sees counseling as the ' sarily been made more difficult be­Although there is no university pro­major responsibility of an R.A. He cause of the new alcohol policy. cedure for hall rectors 10 use, most 
thinks someone who is visible and dorms follow a format similar to that 
available to the members of his sec­Harmon thinks there may even be of Dillon Hall. tion will make a good assistant All less of a problem with parties. Zahm 
Dillon's head staff interviews all interviewed, like lyons R.A. Katie R.A. Mike Sitko said "instead of candidates in order 10 shorten the 
Collins, think resident assistants are having out-of-hand room parties, not designed to be policemen, but there is the question of what an ac­
list ofapplicants. A second interview is held with the staff resulting in R.A. should serve a~ role models. ceptable party is." 


The Observer Friday, December 7, 1984-page 2 

In Brief 
Fonner Defense SecretaryRobert McNamara 
repeatedly told a CBS producer it was wrong to conclude Vietnam War commander William Westmoreland had deliberately kept 
enemy troop counts low, McNamara testified yesterday in New York. McNamara also said that even if there had been a deception, it would have had no impact since he already had concluded that the war could not be won. ·AP 
An FBI investigation ofan Oregon man accused of issuing counterfeit diplomas from some 300 universities could lead to the exposure ofabout 2,500 people who may be practicing law or medicine or holding other jobs under false pretenses. According to a seven-page indictment handed up last August, Dennis Everett Gunter, 38, ofGrant's Pass, Ore., charged customers from $39.95 to $64.95 for counterfeit diplomas and degrees from schools including Harvard, Penn State, University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, North Carolina State, the University ofMichigan, Michigan State Uni­versity and the University of Colorado.-AP 
Of Interest 
Want to learn to salsa?The Student Organization for Latin America (SOLA) is sponsoring a dance with the Chicago salsa band "La Confidencia" providing the entertainment. The dance will be tonight beginning at 9 in the Center for Social Concerns. Proceeds will benefit "La Casa de Ia Amistad" in South Bend. All are invited. Admission is free and donations are welcomed. -The Obseroer 
The COmbined chOirS of Saint Mary's College will present their annual Service of Lessons and Carols at 8 p.m., Sunday, Dec. 9, in the Church of Loretto at Saint Mary's. The concert is free and open to the public. Lessons focusing on the theme of "Peace" will be read by various members ofthe Saint Mary's community. The choirs will perform favorite holiday songs, inlcuding "Masters in This Hall" and "The Holly and The Ivy," and the congregation and choirs will join together in singing traditional Christmas carols. -1be Obseroer 
Twenty-four hours of basketball? That's 
right, the Circle-K Club is sponsoring a 24-hour basketball tourna­ment in Stepan Center to benefit the Muscular Dystrophy Associa­tion. The tournament will start at 7 Saturday evening and continue until 7 Sunday evening. The tournament features competitive and non-competitive divisions. The Women's dorm final will be at 5 p.m. Sunday and the Men's dorm final will follow at 6 p.m. All are invited to come and cheer on their dorm. -The Obseroer 
A slide showand informational session on the Semester Around the World program sponsored by Saint Mary's will take place Sunday night from 7 to 9:30 in LaFortune Uttle Theater. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are welcome. -The Obseroer 
The Mardi Gras Festival will hold an organiza­tional meeting Sunday night at 6 in LaFortune's Utle Theater. Anyone interested in being a commissioner, committee member or just helping out is invited to attend. The Festival will be held Feb. 7-9.-1be Obseroer 

Weather 

Partlysunny today, with a high in the upper teens. Tonight will be partly cloudy with a low of I 0 to I 5. The good news is that tomorrow will be partly sunny and much warmer, with a high in the lower 40s.-AP 

The Observer 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays. except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Unlversiry of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 130 per year ( 120 per se· mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Production Consultant ........ Steve Foster Design Editor ......................... Chris Bowler Design Assistant .................. Andi Schnuck Layout Staff................................... Phil Wolf Prinses Hemphill Jennifer Hom Typesetters ...................... Bill Highducheck Tracy Bringardner News Editor ............................... Mark Potter Copy Editor .............................. )ane Kravcik Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Layout................)ohn Mennell Viewpoint Copy Editor ......... Paul Cimino Features Layout................. Kevin Williams 
Phil Wolf ND Day Editor ........................ Aimee Storin SMC Day Editor ........................ Shirley Ore Ad Design ......................... Suzanne LaCroix 
Mary Carol Creadon Photographer .......................... Paul Clfarelll Typist ........................................ Kim Tyschen 




When gossip and news mix 
The way Boston Herald's gossip columnist told the story, it was Boston's Copley Plaza in one corner and Jimmy Carter in the other -the hotel's plush, four-star restaurant battling the former president of the United States. A confrontation like it had not ~Jeen seen since Clarence Darrow took on William Jennings Bryan. Oh, boy. It was the kind of stuff that made the off-set press sing and the mouths ofreaders water. 
Carter had dared to eat at the classy restaurant with· out a tie and coat, and (can you believe it?) the maitre d' braced himself against the restaurant. door and proclaimed, "Out you ill-clad!" 
At least that's the way columnist Norma Nathan portrayed the incident. In a article last May, Nathan wrote: 
"Rosalyn Carter can't complain about her Copley Plaza chums. The ex-First Lady checked into the hotel during a brief book tour for her new First Lady From Plains and checked out smiling at the service. 
"Not so husband Jimmy. He was turned away from 
Ovf yo._. ill-c./ad!
the dining room when he "The sweater always was 
showed up in his cardigan for dinner. 'He was really rather put out,' said Some­one Who Was There, so much so that Secret Service pranced into the plaza and said, 'That's the Presi<.lent.' 
" 'All the more reason he should wear a jacket,' sweetly smiled matre d' Ur­sula Stadt. Jimmy ate else­where. 'We never saw him after that and he never came back,' said top Copley man, Alan Tremaine." 
Nathan's account was so interesting and so "innocuous," as one editor put it, that no one bothered to check the facts when both The Associated Press and United Press Interna­tional decided to rewrite the piece and put it on the wire. In additon, both wire services added that the inci­dent occurred the week previous to Rosalyn's visit, a "fact" Nathan just happened to forget to mention. 
In fact, the incident -or one similar to it -actually took place in 1976, when Carter was still campaigning for the Democratic nomination. William Heck, general manager of the Copley, said Carter and three aides showed up the restaurant after a day on the campaign trail. Carter, wearing a white shirt and sweater, was of­fered a jacket and tie but declined the offer, choosing instead to eat at the hotel's less formal restaurant. The candidate just wanted to eat dinner and discuss political strategy: the Secret Service was not needed. 
Somehow, though, the story got twisted. Eight years later, in 1984 when Rosalyn came to Boston, Nathan called Heck to get some dirt. "She wanted to know if 
Mlltr W€1/IOIH{/I.T 
NOTRE DAME AVENUE
We APARTMENTS YOUR HOME AWAY FROM HOME
need 
2 -bedroom furnished apartments

you! 
Work for 2 hours a week lay­
Available ... Winter semester ... convenient 
ing out a daily newspaper. 
. .. spacious ... Laundry facilities ... plentiful 
Stop in at The Observer of­fices tor an application. 
parking ... superior maintenence ... 
Spots open for 2nd semester 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL: 
(219) 234-6647 
The .Observer 
3rd floor, LaFortune Student Center 




't--------------------1 
Mdel•i•i>w 
I I 
I
I 

I ADIDAS*BROOKS
I DOLPHIN* NEW BALANCE
I REEBOK *PONY
1 and more 
I I
EXPIRES 12-31-84 

~-------------------------~ 
1 
I
I

This coupon good for 10% OFF 1 Athletic apparel and I 10% OFF Athletic shoes 
II 
17911 State Rd. 23 
South Bend, IN I 
219-272-4373 I 

Bob Vonderheide 
Editor-in-Chief 
Inside Frid 

Rosalyn was a closet mushroom eater," Heck jokes. He told Nathan that sorry, but Rosalyn's stay was without incident or injury. That's when the columnist dug into her gossip files and found the tid-bit ofCarter's cardigan caper. She included her version of the incident in the article last May, but forgot to mention that it actually happened eight years earlier. 
News of the fictious rebuffspread across the country once it was reported as fact by AP and UPI. The Daily News of New York even printed an editorial criticizing 
the man from Plains for his 
taste in clothes. 
bad news, jimmy," theNews
\ 
wrote. "Isn't it time you gave it away?" 
Press aides to Carter, of course, dismissed the news accounts as an example of what happens when the press feeds itself. Jody Powell, former press secre­tary for Carter, complaining about gossip columns in his recent book, 1be Other Side of the Story, writes that the problem with inaccurate gossip columns is com­pounded when other news 
12" 7 organizations repeat unflat­

tering gossip as fact. UPI, for example, merely credited the Herald, and not the paper's gossip columnist, when the news service re­ported the "information." 
Did the inaccurate reports cause any adverse effects around the Copley? Heck laughs and shakes his head no. "The publicity we received over the incident was prob­ably worth S5 million in advertising." 
Not a bad return, even for a four-star restaurant. 
The Obseroer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide-column arti­cle on the Viewpoint page. These columns repre­sent the opinion of a majority of The Obseroer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or otherwise, are the views of their authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Obseroer staff. 
'~ 
--------~­
---------------------------~~----­
The Observer Friday, December 7, 1984-page 3 
Help Notre Dame fight 


Multiple Sclerosis 
and win a free 
MTVCONCERT 
Organizational Meeting: Monday, December 10-7:00p.m. In the New Orleans Room, 1st floor Lafortune 
EVERYONE IS WELCOME 
NOTRE DAME T·SHIRT SHOP NOWOPENI! 
Offering a complete line of sportswear and 
colored Inks. Servicing your group needs. 
HOURS: Monday, Wedne•day.J 3:15 • 5 p.m. Tue•day•, Thunday, Friday 1 • 3 p.m. 
FOUND: In theSE corner of LaFortune Basement 
CONTACT: Robert Cox for more Info-239-5157 
Variety of styles and colors at low prices Try it onfor size! 


McDowell named Judicial Board coordinator to replace Bergamo 
By BOB MUSSELMAN 
StaffReporter 
Tim McDowell was elected unani­mously to succeed Bill Bergamo as Judicial Council Coordinator in a brief meeting of the Council last night. Bergamo, who replaced Joe Zahn in October after Zahn's resig­nation, graduates this month. 
Bergamo accepted applications for the position for the last few weeks, but McDowell's was the only one submitted. McDowell served as assistant to the coordinator since Bergamo took office. 
Before the election, McDowell distributed copies of his application to the council and explained some of his reasons for wanting the posi­tion. 

"I feel that I have the background and the experience to guide the Council as an active worklng body for the students at Notre Dame," the application read, citing McDowell's involvement as assistant to the co­ordinator. He stressed his commit­ment to continuing the efforts of committees already in existence, and expressed an interest in examin­ing the "proper functioning" of the Council and thej-Boards. 
After his election, McDowell praised Bergamo for his efforts this semester, whicl' McDowell said "saved the council." He added Ber­gamo "deserves a lot ofcredit." 
"I'm satisfied that we got things going again and the Council just didn't fold up," Bergamo said after­ward. He gave much of the credit, however, to McDowell and his other assistant, Karen Ingwersen. 
McDowell said he planned no major changes for the Council next semester, but said he wanted to look into the reason for the Council's decreased budget allocation, which is half of what it was last year. Funds are primarily to be used in the publishing a student rights manual, he said. 


Microwave installed in dining hall 
ByJACKIE RIZNER 
News Staff 
A Litton microwave oven has been installed in the South Dining Hall as a pilot project and, although currently out of use because of a prank, the microwave is intended for student use. 
According to Food Service Direc-
Thanks to you... • 
It works ... 
for ALL OF US ....,....~ 

tor Bill Hickey, "Students can use it 
to warm up sandwiches or reheat a 
meal that wasn't hot enough." 
The idea to install microwave 
ovens in the dining halls came from 
Student Senator Tom Abood. He 
said, "I had seen them at other 
schools and thought that they would 
work out well here." 
Abood said he contacted Hickey after the idea was discussed at a Sen­ate meeting. "Mr. Hickey was very receptive," he said, "and told me he was more than willing to do what the students wanted." 
The microwave wave was in­stalled two weeks after Abood spoke to Hickey. Abood said he was, "surprised and appreciative of his quick action. I thought I'd have to run around to get the idea through." 
According to Hickey, the oven is a "heavy-duty commercial model" 
which cost $1000 and came out of  
the food service budget. "It is a pilot  
project to seek out funds if this one  
proves to be a service to the stu­dents," he said.  1  
Hickey said students seemed to be enjoying it and that it had been working out well until "someone placed a bottle ofTabasco sauce in it  1 I I l  
and it blew up."  
He said he hopes it will be in ser­ 
vice again but "there is no way we  
will spend money on the system ifit  
is going to be abused. It's really a  
shame this incident had to happen  
when it could be a very useful ap­ 
pliance."  
Hickey said they intended to in­ 
stall a microwave in North Dining  
Hall as well but added, "If and when  
we decide to, some adjustments will  
have to be made on the electrical  
outlets first."  

, 



GIVE SOMEONE A TAN FOR CHRISTMAS 
Ask about our X-Mas special8_ 
TAN....HAWAIIAN 
sun tonn1rg solon 277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths for comptet~ privacy 
¥1SA & MASTERCARD 


10% ott tor any student or faculty having ID card 
Good through 12-31-84 Special deals available for groups of 1 0 or more for dinner 
$1.00 sandwiches In lounge nightly after 9 p.m. 
MR. D's  
1516 N. Ironwood  ~  
South Bend  
~ere  

~--~ ----~ --~----~ 

The C>bserver Friday, December 7, 1984-page 4 


EPA chief calls budget deficits major problem 


Assodated Press 
WASHINGTON -Beneath a "Thanks, Bill," banner, outgoing Ad­ministrator William Ruckelshaus assured employees of the Environ­mental Protection Agency yesterday he was not leaving out offrustration and cautioned federal budget deficits were "the overriding prob­lem ofthis society." 
"Nothing could be further from the truth," Ruckelshaus said of reports he was leaving because of disillusion and frustration that he could not get his environmental pro­grams past the White House. 
In a sometimes self-mocking speech studded with agency in­jokes, Ruckelshaus warned several hundred agency employees at the close of EPA's annual awards cere­mony, "It's going to be difficult" to operate in the next fiscal year under a frozen budget. 
But, noting some agencies were under a "freeze plus" budget order from President Reagan that requires reduced spending, Ruckelshaus said: "these deficits are real, stretched out into the next decade and beyond, 

ROTC unit announces promotion 
Speclal to The Observer 
Kirk Kimler, a senior econom ics and computer applications major, was named cadet battalion commander of the Army ROTC detachment at Notre Dame yes­terday in ceremonies in Stepan Center. 

f 
Kimler, a resident of Stanford Hall, is a distinguished military 
student and recently received a 
Professor of Military Science

, ~ 
commendation award. 
''I'm honored because it is a

r 
r 
very esteemed position to have in ROTC and one that will take a lot of hard work. I hope to con­tinue the productive efforts of the last batallion commander and continue to improve for the benefit ofArmy ROTC," he said. 
As commander, Kimler will be responsible for the planning and operation of all activities for the 209 Army cadets. He said his big­gest challenge will "be assuring that the juniors are prepared for tt>.eir summer advanced camp." 
At his own advanced camp in Ft. Riley, Kan., Kimler received a,. military proficiency award and a Recondo badge for overall achievement. He also has com· pleted airborne training and is a member of the Army ROTC bas· ketball team. 
Kimler, of Huntington, W.V., said of his post-graduation plans, "I'm torn between going on to law school or being commis­sioned into the regular army, preferably into Army wiation." 


Drive 
continuedfrom page 1 
recognized as a major contributor annual drive. Notre Dame is by far the largest contributor to the St. joseph County Branches from the general field of education, said Woodka. 
The fact that many students of the University aid as volunteers was also noted. Woodka said the Notre Dame community has increased its dona­tions to the United Way yearly. 
and are the overriding problem of this society. And something has to be done about it." 
In what could be read as an im­plicit rebuke to environmentalists who have criticized him for not win­ning more financial support from the White House for his programs, Ruckelshaus said: "if we freeze domestic programs right where they are, programs that are not already frozen ... we're only talking about $6 billion in the 1986 fiscal year. Obvi­ously, we have to go beyond that." 
He offered no recommendations ofhis own on the federal budget. 
Ruckelshaus, a former Indiana res­ident, is almost universally credited with restoring morale and effective­ness to EPA, the agency he organized in 1970 and led for three years. He returned in May 1983 following months of turmoil, accusations of mismanagement and six congres­sional investigations under his predecessor, Anne Burford. 
Most ofhis speech was devoted to praise of employees, individually and collectively, ofEPA, ofwhich he said, "There is no more important in­stitution in our society." 

Clip and save this ad for easy travel planning! Travel United Limo to f:l from Chicago's O'Hare 
LEAVE  LEAVE  ARRIVE  ARRIVE  
NOTRE DAME  MICHIANA REGIONAL  •-t•  let'.· (t ......,,=­ MICHIANA REGIONAL  NOTRE DAME  
BUS  AIRPORT  ARRIVE  LEAVE  AIRPORT  BUS  
SHELTER  SOUTH BEND  O"HARE  O"HARE  SOUTH BEND  SHELTER  
4 20 am  4 40 am  6 00 am  8 30 a m  11 50 a.m  12·05 p m  
6 20 am  6 40 am  8 00 am  10·30 a m  1 50 p m  2 05 p m  
8 20 am  8 40 am  10 00 a m  12 30 p m  3"50 p m  4 05 p m  
10 20 a m  10·40a m  12 00 p m  2 30 p m  5 50 p m  6 05 p m  
12 20 p m  12 40 p m  2 00 p m  4 30 p m  7 50 p m  8 05 p m  
2 20 p m  2·40 p m  4.00 p m  6 30 p m  9·50 p m  10 05 p.m  
4 20 p m  440p m  6.00 p m  8 30 p m  11.50 p.m  12:05 a m  
6 20 p m  6 40 p m  8:00pm  10 30 p m  1 50 a.m  2·05 a.m  
8 20 p m  8 40 p m  10·00 p m  12 30 a m  3·5o a m  4·05 a m  

SOUTH BENO ARRIVALS & DEPARTURES ON SOUTH BEND TIME. EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 28. 1984 FOR RESERVATIONS CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES 
(219) 674-6993 
OR CALL YOUR 
TRAVEL AGENT 

lntersession At lona-1985 
January 3rd through 17th 
• 
Day, Evening, Weekend Classes 

• 
Credit and Non-Credit 

• 
Travel Opportunities 


Choose from a wide selection of courses 
in Arts. Science and Business. 
For further information call (914) 576-7620 or

' complete the coupon and mail to lana College. 
0 N A C 

r-------------------,
1 Name___________________________ 
I

1 Address,_____________ I C1ty State Zip,
___  ____  
I  New Rochelle Campus 
I  715 North Avenue. • New Rochelle  

I New York 10801 • (914) 576-7620
I Rockland campus 

~ One Dutch Hill Road • Orangeburg
New York 10962 • (914) 359-2252 L_ ----------------~~J 
,. 
·. ·. 

0 L L E G E 
The Observer 




Toxic gas leak causes more deaths 
Associated Press 
BHOPAL, India-The government radio said yesterday 1,600 people had died from a cloud of poison gas, and doctors working around the clock to trl·at the thousands of casualties said they were getting cases In which deadly fumes had killed children in the womb. 
Smoke from ma~s cremations hung over the stricken city and United News of India said the death toll from the ga~ leak at a Union Carbide pesticide plant had already rl·ached more than 2,000. 
Doctors reported new deaths hour by hour and workers struggled to remove the bloated carcasses of animals authorities said threatened to start an epidemic ofdisease in the area. 
Warren Anderson, chairman of Union Carbide, arrived In Uomb;~y from the United States and met with officials of the company's Indian subsidiary to discuss compensation for victims. 
Five members of a Union Carbide team -a doctor, two engineers, a chemist, and an occupational health expert -flew on to Bhopal, a central Indian city of900,000, to investigate Monday's leak of methyl isocyanate from a 45-ton underground storage tank. 
They were denied permission to enter the plant, which had been sealed to prevent tampering with evidence about the leak, the United News of India said. Detectives from the Central Bureau of Investigation took possession of all log books and documents pertaining to storage and release of gas at the factory, it said. 
The government's All-India Radio said in a national English-language broadcast from New Delhi that the official death toll had risen to 1,600. 
At Halliidia Hospital, the largest in Bhopal, doctors said about 40 people died yesterday and there were eight stillbirths, the news agency said. 
"Children in the womb had stopped kicking and bodies were rejecting fetuses," the United News of India quoted a doctor as saying. It did not identify the doctor. 
Doctors also were quoted as saying they were forced to perform an unspecified number of abortions on other pregnant women who had been exposed to the ga:;, and were brought to the hospital in terrible pain. 

Florida plane crash kills all thirteen aboard 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -A small Provincetown-Boston Airlines plane crashed shortly after takeoff yester­day evening, killing all 13 people aboard, authorities said. 
"'Ibere arc no survivors," said Valerie Baltzley, emergency com­munications officer for Jacksonville Fire-Rescue. 
Charles Hardrick, an operations manager at .Jacksonville Interna­tional Atrport said 13 people had been killed in the cra~b of the twin­engine plane. 
Flight 839 from Jacksonville to Tampa "was reported down off the end of runway 31 at 6: I 5 this eve­ning," said Roger Myers, a spokes­man for the Federal Aviation Administration, from FAA regional headquarters in Atlanta. "It's my un­derstanding that th,~ aircraft went down a mile and a half off the end of the runway." 
Three hospitals, including Univer­sity Hospital ofJacksonville and Bap­tist Medical Center, said they did not admit any injured people from the plane. 
"We did have an alert earlier but it was canceled," said a nursing super­visor at Riverside Hospital who asked not to be quoted by name. "Our emergency room just called me and told me the alert was can­celed." 
The FAA pulled PBA's operating license last month, charging the car­rier with federal safety violations. The Naples-based airPrte resumed limited operations two weeks ago and was working back to full resumption ofservice. 
$2 
Off 
en
• b 
!c 
:EN
• 

0!:::1
• OA. 
' ' '

II . ' .

·-------------------------------~ 
·..·-·""""" ~~~ ~-~ I 


$2.00 oH any 16"-21tem pizza. Oiler good at listed locations. 
Exp1res in one week 
Getting through college isn't easy. But help is on the way. Because Domino's Pizza is offering you financial assistance on your next pizza. The Pizza made with 100% natural cheeses and fresh. not frozen toppings. And we'll deliver it, custom-made, to your door in 30 minutes or less. GUARANTEED. Call Domino's Pizza and help yourself to the best tasting p1zza around. 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS™ FREE. 
® 
I 
I I I I 
Fast, Free DeliveryTM 
I
Plaza 23 Center 
1835 South Bend Ave. I 
South Bend 
I
Phone. 277-2151 
JTC NA 102 2650 
I
1984 OommosPIZli'l Inc 
I I I I I 
L1m1ted delivery area Our drivers carry less than $20.00 1954 Domono's Poua. Inc.





~------------------------------~ 

·" fl>olo 

This old man, a victim ofthe poison gas leak in Bhopal, India, was left nearly blindas a result ofthe accident and does not know ifbe wt/1 regain his sight. At least 1600 people were killed by the toxic gas leak. Story at left. 
Give that special guy the best gift of all--­YOURSELF in a PORTRAIT or a set of GLAMOUR MINIATURES 
Photographyby Joe Ringer 7-0 13 




&uper8ooler 
Rental 

• 
Holds 1f4 or 1h barrels 

• 
Holds 7 cases of bottles or cans 

• 
Cools up to 3 days with 271bs. of ice 

• 
$15 a day with free 251bs of ice 


Artificial Ice, Inc. 525N. Niles 233-9303 
OPEN: 8-SMon-Thurs 8-5:30 Fri & Sat 
1 
j 
1 1 1 
, ~ 
,
, ] 
l 

"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~-----------------------------------------F_r_id_a~y,_D_e_c_em_b_e_r_7_,_I9_B_4__~P_ag~e_6_ 
P.O.BoxQ 
wants to turn his stereo all the way up and fry already provides an alternative to other radio
Faith will be challenged Dorm cooperation will
his eardrums alone with his aesthetic sen­stations. WSND, which can be heard through­sibilities, far be it from me to complain. There out Michiana, should serve the needs of that

at some point in life be better for both sexes
are however, several on this campus, and community; while WVFI, which can be heard DearEditor: many more in the South Bend area who only on campus, should serve the needs of its DearEditor: 
The letter by alumnus Burnie Bauer which actively support classical music program­community. On Dec 3, two friends and I sat down armed appeared in the Monday, December 3 edition ming. Yes, there are people who listen to the Tom Nessinger with a telephone, a Dogbook, and the campus ofThe Obseroer is a serious insult to the entire music of Mozart, Brahms, and Bartok for fun. Former WSND Station Manager phone directory to try to find dates for our Notre Dame student population. In this letter, In a university community like ours, there is a upcoming SYR. We realized that we were Bauer stated that inviting New York Governor place for a station like WSND-FM, that offers probably starting to look a bit late for a

What the Constitution
Mario Cuomo to speak at this University and not only classical music, but also quality jazz weekend dance, but we figured with a little 
the student body's response to this speech and even progressive rock. (Ever hear of effort we could find dates. I was to make the

says on gun control
"indicates that Notre Dame is indeed no Nortune Nightflight, Raab?) phone calls while one person flipped through longer a true Catholic school..." I consider this Relegating all of this to the present anti­DearEditor: the Dogbook and the other looked up the to be one of the most foolishly myopic state­quated AM system would destroy the The letter on gun control submitted by phone number of the perspective females. ments that I have ever heard and unworthy of availability of such programming to nearly John Trusela and Pat Hirl overlooks some key Over the course of the next three hours, I a Notre Dame alumnus. everyone. I am not a complete enemy of the points. The second ammendment to the made over fifty phone calls. There were a few 
What right does Bauer have to claim that type of programming Raab advocates. I even United States Constitution actually states: "A women that were not home, but for the most inviting Cuomo to speak here was "as un­went to a party once and actually danced to well regulated militia, being necessary to the par.t every one I talked to already had a date at Catholic and scandalous an act as allowing the Talking Heads. What this campus still security of a free state, the right of the people another dorm's SYR or formal. I phoned wo­Luther to post his thesis to ~he doors ofSacred needs is an adequate AM radio facility, that can to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed." men we knew, women we did not know, and Heart Church?~' Moreover, what right does he be received by all students and that offers pro­The full sentence is certainly open to a viable women we thought we might know. Everyone have to conclude that the ovation that Cuomo gramming tailored to all student musical interpretation that would limit possession of already had a date. received from the students meant that they tastes. weapons to those in organized militias, i.e. the did not understand that the governor was con­National Guard and ·military reserves. The Now I am not faulting the women of Notre 
, tradicting Catholic doctrine? Can it be in­EdwardScheckler amendment does not specify the right to keep Dame and Saint Mary's. They really have it ferred from his letter that Bauer expects Holy Cross Hall handguns anymore than it permits the posses­good here. As a male, I wish we were in a
r 
r Notre Dame to brainwash her students into a sion of grenadc~s or bazookas. The enjoyment similar situation. Catholic way of thinking? Can it also be in­of hunting and target shooting would not be I am calling for better cooperation between ferred that we should come here to learn ex­WSND does serve all of limited by a total ban on cheap, inaccurate dorms regarding their social events, to try not clusively about our faith rather than challenge handguns which are almost never used for to schedule too many social functions on one

the needs of community

it also? such activities. It is not at all clear that the night. It seems to me to be a real shame that at 
What Bauer seems to forget is that Catholics DearEditor: young Chicago student would have been a university where the social life is already will have their faith challenged at some point I would like to make a few observations in gunned down so easily if handguns were suspect that a guy cannot find a date to his in their lives; and I can not think ofany better response to Mike Raab's Letter ofDecember 4. banned and confiscated, reducing their acces­own SYR. Maybe I could understand if the place to challenge Catholic faith than at the Contrary to Raab's belief, WSND-FM does sibility greatly (and the gentlemen were cor­dateless men were antisocial, unfriendly, or most prominent Catholic university in the not broadcast classical music merely rect, the NRA slogan "if handguns are banned, unattractive. That is not the case, though. country. It is here that answers to questions "because it has always been that way." WSND only criminals will have handguns" is a cliche; 
about Catholicism can be found from liberal and Notre Dame are part of a community, the and conservative theologians and here that South Bend community. Universities have al­we can fire test our faith so that we are not ways contributed to the surrounding com­shocked when we encounter alternate munities, usually by providing diversions in opinions in the secular world. Is allowing us to culture and the fine arts. Part ofNotre Dame's hear an opinion contrary to the Catholic contribution to the South Bend community is Church's teaching such a heinous offense? Ifit to provide the area with a fine arts-classical is, then should not the University eradicate its radio station, WSND. Apart from WAUS in Ber­courses on world religions? Ifit is to be "truly" rien Springs, Michigan, which broadcasts a Catholic, should not Notre Dame turn away good deal ofreligious programming, no other any non-Catholic from her freshman class? Of station in the area broadcasts classical music. course those would be ridiculous actions, but WSND has a large and intensely loyal audi­no leSs ridiculous than Bauer's statement. ence, and it is consistently recognized as one 
Finally, Bauer has drastically misin­of the best stations in the area. terpreted the student body's acceptance of It is also a mistake to characterize WSND as Cuomo's speech. ·Does Bauer truly believe just a "student" station. While it is true that a that every student who stood up after the large part of WSND's funding comes from the governor's speech accepted what he said as University, and the majority of its air staff are truth. Does Buaer realize that the students students, a sizable percentage ·of WSND's might have been acknowledging the fact that operating budget comes from its bi-annual Cuomo gave a good speech that-the students fund drives. The vast majority of these contri­respected? Just because the present students butions are from people outside ofthe Univer­of this University have an open mind towards sity. In addition, many members of the WSND the opinion ofothers does not mean that they staff are South Bend residents and unaffiliated are ignorant of the Catholic Church's with the University. doctrine. However, Bauer's doubt of this Uni­Were Raab to take a look at the ratings for versity's and its students' Catholicism may just this area, he would discover that there is nei­
point to his own ignorance. ther a need nor a desire for a new wave­Kevin Becker progressive FM station. WNDU regularly racks FisherHall up the highest market share of any FM rocker in the county. This means that a higher


Classical music listeners 
percentage of the South Bend listening audi­ence listens to U93 than any other rock sta­


like what they hear 
tion. What this indicates is that most listeners DearEditor: in South Bend want to hear top-40 rock, not 
While Mike Raab and the supposed "vast the kind of programming featured on WAOR hoard" to which he belongs, may genuinely orWVFI. desire "head banging humor" on campus However, I agree with Raab that most Notre radio, his suggestion to change WSND-FM's Dame students would prefer a more progres­classical format would not solve the problem. sive rock sound. This is provided by WVFI, 
Raab claims that changing WSND-FM to a N.D.'s ttue student station in that it is aimed rock station, and playing classical music on exclusively at students. Admittedly, WVFI has WVFI would allow all Notre Dame students to had problems in the past with its signal. This is listen to rock on FM, and "those interested changing, however. The current management students could hear classical music on the AM at WVFI has obtained new equipment which station." However, there also are interested will enable the station to put out a cleaner, students who would not be able to receive stronger stereo signal. WVFI will thus be able classical music if itwere played on the present to best serve its market -the campuses of AM system. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
I will not challenge Raab's right to be I understand Raab's desire to see that the suckered in by the hype, gimmicking, and students are provided an alternative to local commercial packaging that allows punk rock radio programming. However, the answer is and New Wave to be called music. If Raab not to change the format of WSND, which it is an especially stupid one, too-just observe the hip of almost any law-officer). Despite the Attorney General's predictable assertion, the murder of men trained and prepared to confront violence is probably not as tragic as accidentally killing or maiming one's own mate or child with an all too convenient handgun. 

RichardPilger Notre Dame Student 

So, dorm presidents and social coordina­tors, try to get together. There are plenty of weekends to spread the dances over. The wo­men will like this because they can then have a date every weekend. The men will like it be­cause then they can go to their own SYR or formal with a date instead of with their roommate. 
Dan Meixner Morrissey Manor 


Viewpoint wants to bearfrom you. Ifyou 
have an opinion, brlllant insfabt or humorous comment concerning ""ytbtng appearing in The Observer justsend a let­ter toP.O.Box Q. 
Viewpoint 

Policy 
Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Edttor·in·Chief.  . . Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager. . . .  . .. Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor .  . . Mark Worscheh  Controller . . . . . . . . . . . .  Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  News Editor  ..... Sarah Hamilton  Advertising Manager. .  Anne Culligan  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor .  . . Dan McCullough  Circulation Manager.  . ..... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  Saint Mary's Editor .  . .. Anne Monastyrski  Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Sports Editor. .  . .. Michael Sullivan  Production Manager. ........ Chris Bowler  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column  Viewpoint Editor ....  . . Dave Grote  Project Manager ........... Amy Stephan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the  Features Editor .  . .. Mary Healy  
community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Photo Editor . ..... .  . ... Pete Laches  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  




View~_o_i_n_t_________Fr-ida-y,-De.._ce-mb...;.er-7,-19~84__..p~ag~e 
What is wrong with the United Nations anyway? 
The Unitt·d Nations and all its alphabet soup organizations arc great examples of the growing concern mankind has of promoting t·quality, justice, and pt·acc. A recent attack on the U.N. was given here at Notre Dame that I think went unnoticed. 
Last week, Doctor Murray Weidenbaum spoke ti>r a Thomas). White l.ecture Series au­dience on the use of law in various United Na· 
Michael McCabe 
guest column 

lions activites. His lecture focused on the 'rt·gulatory' role that the U.N. ha~ assumed as of late, claiming most emphatically that it is deviating from its <.·bartered purposed as a "peacekeeping" institution. A quick glance at the effects of American business in Central and South America is enough to see that such an argument would be ludicrous even coming from an ultra-capitalist perspective. The 'Rising Tldt: of llnrt:st' to the south of us is indet·d indicativt: of how unconstrained busi· nesst:s negativdy affect tht• nations in which they operate. 
However, my main concern is centered among the particular regulations the U.N. has proposed that Weldenbaum discussed in his lecture. With rt•gard to business operations within foreign countries, he asks, should the 
li.N. encourage governments to set socio· cultural objectives that private enterprise would be required to countenance? Answer· ing his own question with a resounding No! Weidenbaum does not mention why business should not have to respect the cultural pat· terns of their host nations, but only that the attempt to force such respect reeks with the odor of totalitarianism. 
Later in the lecture, Weidenbaum criticized the anti-trust regulatory proposals the U.N. has recently put forth. What bothers him here is that such regulations would impede the effi· ciency of multi-nationals in order to better serve the needs and interests of the people; less efficient domestic firms, he fears, might be able to wrest favors over the more efficient multi-nationals. This wa~ truly an odd claim. It assumes that big foreign businesses are always going to be more efficient than small domes· tics, and further, that in the name ofefficiency a business naturally responds to the needs and 
choices ofthe people whose country in which they operate. 
If we turn our attention, as many businesses do, towards our neighbors in this hemisphere and the military dictatorships that dominate the majority of them, I think Weidenbaum's picture gets brutally and painfully cloudy.It is not a secret that U.S. money has supported numerous military juntas in the Region· Hum· berto Ca~telo, Couto E Silva (Brazil), Somoza, Molina ( El Salvador), Stroessner (Paraguay), and others in Bolivia and Ecuador. 
It also is not a secret that big American cor· porations have a heavy hand in our govern· ment, especially in the say of 'to whom' and 

Mental illness must not been seen as a taboo 

One of every four Americans is mentally ill. At least on~: of every two marriages here end in divorce; of the ones that survive, as many a~ eight out often may be in serious mental trou­ble. One out of ~:very seven men and women abus~: alcohol. 
It is easy to think that such problems must ht·lnn~ to someone else. 'lbe facts, however, 
Charles Boudreaux 
only solitaire 

indicate that the highest rates ofmentallllness 
are found in the 18-44 year-old age bracket; 
we arc all statistically at our highest level of 
mental risk right now. Suicide is now second 
only to accidents on the list of causes of teen· 
age deaths. Many of us will continue our edu· 
cation and seek employment in public service 
professions: of all occupations, doctors 
(including psychiatrists) and lawyers have the 
highest suicide rates. 
It Is time for us to acknowledge mental ill· ness, just as we acknowledge physical illness. Suppose you occasionally noticed that you felt a little under the weather. You would probably brush it off as "nothing." If several friends commented that you looked peaked, you might consider your discomfort more seriously and consider medical attention, even Ifyou were not feeling critically ill. If this chronic discomfort became acute, you would go to a doctor to have it diagnosed and treated. What prevents us from taking similar actions if the illness is mental, rather than physical? 
I believe that mental and physical illness can be looked at in parallel fashion. If you have serious depressic:ln, for example, you may feel moody frequently. Friends may tell you that you look "down." If some emotional crisis manlfesL~ Itself in your life or the life of some· one you know, a chronic depression may becomt• acute · and threatening to your life. Mental illness can be contagious: a single teen suicide tends to multiply as the rest ofa group ofpt·ers Is unable to deal with the experience. 
Mental illness can also be analogous to <.·an· <.·er; we may be no more aware of what is hap· mental and physical illness. It is much more difficult to detect mental illness in oneself than it is to detect physical illness, as mental illness can affect our perception of ourselves and our environment. We like to be in control of ourselves: if we suspect that there is some· thing amiss in that most private chamber, the mind, we feel frightened and helpless. It Is ea<;ier (though not better) to refuse to think about mentallllness, although it may become mental dysfunction ifwe let it go. 
Our ancestors' fear of "crazy people" has retarded the growth of the mental health profession. Although both mental and physi· cal lllness were historically considered to be punishments from God, it has taken mental health much longer to escape this stigma. The science of mental health has, nonetheless, im· proved geometrically since the days of Freud and Jung. Counseling's latest development is rational-emotive therapy, in which a client can root out the faulty or exaggerated ideas that lead to his or her emotional difficulty. Drug therapy is also continuing to grow: new drugs allow everyone from seriously de· pressed individuals to heroin addicts to return to comparatively normal lives. 
One cannot deny that the mental health profession is young and, In many ways, under· developed. It is no panacea for the troubles of humanity. Nevertheless, the mental health profession is all we have at present to deal with mental/emotional dysfunction. What we need now, quite simply, is guts. It takes courage to tell a friend that we think he needs to see a counselor; it takes even more courage to accept and act upon such advice. 
We must rid mental illness of its "taboo" status: we can no longer afford to wait in fear· ful silence until a friend's emotional difficul· tics have increased to the point at which they are dangerous to both him and us. Psychologi· cal counseling is available here on campus and in South Bend; the statistics warn us that it is time to lose our fear of these facilities. 
In the four years of our college educations, we will make many decisions that will affect and, in some ways, determine the rest of our lives. If we are to exist under this sort ofpres· sure, we need to recognize it and utilize the people who can help us keep going when the ~~sure seems to be too intense. Ifwe are to 

pening to our mental and emotional insides ...-"Jlave mental health, it is time for us to recog· than we are of their physkal counterparts. We nize mental illness· before it becomes too late should recognize that a mentally ill individual for ourselves or someone we care about. is no more responsible for his mood swings than a physically ill patient is responsible for Charles Boudreaux is a junior Program of his broken arm. Liberal Studies major and a regular View­
There are differences, of course, between point columnist. 

'how much' foreign aid is given. The point 
here is that Weidenbaum, while speaking 
against U.N. proposals and the totalitarianism 
they would be conducive of, explicitly takes 
the side of the free-wheeling multi-nationals 
and their financial support of cruel military 
governments. 

One documented example of such activity comes out of United Brand Fruit, whose manager once discussed their Honduran in· terest like this: "We must produce a disem· bowelment of the incipient economy of the country in order to increase and help our aims." If I am not mistaken, Weidenbaum's view lends a great deal of support for the car· eying out of this kind of"subversive action." 
At first I wondered, how could Welden· baum intelligently, much less morally, advocate such attitudes, but then recalled a certain report from the Rand Corporation. The State Department's Latin-American Think Tank once reported, "U.S. preconceptions about the seriousness ofthe communist threat and the subsequent need for counterinsur· gency...are producing undesired effects". 
Paradoxically, U.S. policies appear simulra­neously to encourage authoritarian regimes and to antagonize the military who lead them." So, Weidenbaum's view is not that sickening after all, at least in comparison with the types ofpolicies Uncle Sam has adopted. 
I drew the connection between Welden· baum and U.S. policy on perhaps a 'weak' rea· son. I unofficially counted 27 instances in his paper where either the term 'communism', 'totalitarianism', or 'regime' was used. I am 

Ambitions, goals, hard work and sacrifices. All of these are familiar terms to any transfer student at Notre Dall)e. The tran.'ifer student must adjust to to an unfamiliar environment with different people and a new set of stand· ards. Most transfer students are outgoing and 
Janet Tabit guest column 
ambitious people who have set high goals for themselves. 
I am a junior transfer student at Notre Dame. My first semester here ha~ been an en· joyable and successful one. I am certain I will encounter many opportunities after gradua· tion. Each day as I see "Our Lady," I have a special feeling inside me, one that is quite un· describable. 
Many transfer students are people who ap· plied to Notre Dame in high school, but who were not accepted into the University as freshmen. lbere are many rea~ons for not being accepted, but the most common one, as in my case, is a low score on the Scholastic Aptitude Test. 
In my opinion, the SAT is somewhat inef· fective because it does not measure a stu· dent's determination or drive · key factors in becoming academically "successful." The dis· appointment of being rejected as a freshman, gives many students the incentive to prove to the admissions committee and to themselves that they have the ability to handle college work· even at the University of Notre Dame. 
Having proven themselves academically, hinting at the fact that Weidenbaum's lan· guage rings out in an obvious echo to the "Revolution-Paranoia" characteristic of the Reagan Administration. 

Unexpectedly, I was able to find a few minor points in Weidenbaum's position with which I agreed. I can chime to his concern over the role the U.N. has in our world, that inefficiency in business may be unnecessarily instigated and that unfair rules may arise from the pursuit ofequality. I too, worry along with Weidenbaum; the problem is that our solu· tions oppose each other. 
I believe that the U.N., if it is to be a true "peacekeeping" institution must by definition increase its role by getting involved in the economics and international businesses In the world. Outside of the abduction of Helen and a few other instances, one is hard pressed to find a war not somehow causally related to economics. 
The approach Weldenbaum speaks in favor of, I cannot condone. In the names of effi· ciency and freedom in business, he has tacitly granted the right of U.S. corporations to produce, ensure and justify the existence of injustice, especially in Latin America. On the other hand, I just hope that more Americans recognize the kinds of things the U.N. has been proposing in trying to justly remedy the situation down south. In the names of peace and justice, what is wrong with the United Na· tions anyway? 
Michael McCabe is a senior philosophy major at Notre Dame 
J 

transfer students must learn to "shine" so· dally. Nobody said that being a transfer stu· dent was easy. Transfer students are well aware of the on-campus housing problem which forces them to live off campus. 
At times, transfers may feel frustrated and "inferior" as new students. Although feelings such as this may be normal, transfer students must realize that they are as much a part ofthe Notre Dame student body a~ any other stu· dents, and that they are here because of their abilities. 
Transfers must get involved in school func· 
tions to meet fellow students. Since a great 
majority of us live off campus, we have to 
make a special effort to be a "part" of activi­
ties. We must show an interest in others so 
they will show an Interest in us. 
Personally, I have met many friendly stu· dents on campus who have helped me to make a smooth transition during my first sc· mester at Notre Dame, and I am very grateful to them. 
Like most transfers, I am looking forward to my future semesters at Notre Dame, and I am anxious to see what lies ahead. Most of ust: have survived the "rocky road" from our first semester transition, and we are ready to move onward. I have thoroughly enjoyed the short time I have spent a~ a student here. I look to the future semesters with optimism and confi· dcnce. 
We, a'i transfers, arc truly a "special breed" bursting with pride and will continue to dis­play our vivid enthusiasm throughout the rest of our college careers at Notre Dame. 
janet Tabit is a junior government rruljor at Notre Dame. 
Accent  
Steeltown carries its own without 'killer cut'  
Vic Sciulli  helped get the group a good deal of attention from AOR stations.)  LP. Earlier this year the band released Wonderland, a four-song  There I stand with my own kin At the end ofeverything  
features staff writer  The success was not a fluke; the band has avoided the sophomore  EP that showcased the band under different producer combinations.  Finally the dream is gone I've had enough ofhanging on  
Records  jinx that plagues many bands and has followed up with an album that  With very little unification in style, Wonderland's weak arrangements  
is every much as daring as the first.  barely hung together. Jimmy Iovine,  The band even ventures a bit in  
L ast year's Big Country debut The  new albums that year. (A predomi­ Actually,Steeltown, the Scottish  who produced the last few LPs of  the area oflove songs this time, out  
Crossing was hailed by many  nant guitar sound in a year when  band's latest album from Mercury is  Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers  but even these do not escape the  
critics as one of the most important  keyboards and synths were the rule  more like their "two'and a halfth"  and Stevie Nicks, seemed a bit out  tough-edged realism which imbues  
of his element in his mixing of"All  so many oftheir songs, as in "Come  
Fall Together."  Back To Me."  
The band-pulls it all together this  
time around, however. Unlike U2,  I will always be here  
which toned down its heavy guitar  Fading by the day  
sound under producer Brian Eno  I will wash the bloody hands  
for its latest LP, producer Steve  Andcast the bowl away  
Lillywhite and the band have  As theyears hang on me  
r  decided to stick with the tri·  You will always beyoung  
r r r r  pronged guitar attack led by Stuart Adamson, Tony Butler and Bruce Watson. (Lillywhite produced U2's  And one day I will lie down Where the rose wasflung  
r  marvelous War.)  
"Steeltown" spotlights a gentle  
~  The band did not change the  mandolin opening instead of the  
r  approach to their songwriting by  traditional guitars. Halfway through 
r  writing sappy love songs; the theme  the song, however, one realizes the  
r r r  ofadventure and exploration prevalent on the first LP continues  almost complete lack of melody in the vocals. Granted, Adamson and  
r  on this one.  Butler's rough vocals are an integral  
r  The only major difference be­ part of Big Country sound. One  
r  tweenSteeltown and The Crossing  cringes, though, when hearing  
r  is that the former lacks the killer­ Adamson's voice fall short of what  
cuts that were largely responsible  the song calls for, as in "Come Back  
for the commercial success of the  To Me." A vocalist with more  
latter. "In A Big Country" and  power and range could have done  
"Fields ofFire," with the Celtic  the song more justice.  
guitar sound that sounded like  
bagpipes, became anthems for  "Girl With Grey Eyes" stands out  
those synthed out by Eurythmics  from its very opening with a more  
andFlashdance songs.  toned guitar approach as well as  
less of Mark Brzezicki's drums.  
"Flame ofthe West" is the nearest  Steeltown may not be as popular  
thing to a killer cut this time out  as The Crossing because of the lack  
with a compelling guitar opening  of the killer-cut. No one, however,  
and lyrics that evoke a strong sense  will be able to deny that the band  
of the band's country heritage. The  has carved out its own niche among  
traditional Scottish and Irish folk  rock bands. In the future, though,  
songs ofAdamson's youth left a  the band may want to experiment  
strong impression on him and  more with vocals to round out its  
surface on many of the LP's tracks.  sound a little more.  
'The T erntinator' ­ at las  



Part-tinte South Bend Syntphony 
who plays the French horn, are all graduate students in music at Notre Dame. Buettner, a junior, is a business 
Ann Sullivan 

W
major with a concentration in accounting. Before features staffwriter joining the South Bend Symphony all four musicians performed in symphonies as high school and under­eekends are made for Mozart. graduate students. Together their credentials include Weekends are made for Bach and Beethoven, performances with the Akron Symphony, the LaCrosse too, for the four Notre Dame students playing with the Symphony, and the Cleveland Women's Symphony. South Bend Symphony Orchestra this season. Upon arriving in South Bend, each of the students 

On eight weekends this year Terri Timmerman, sought to continue her symphony performing. The Mara Buettner, Betsy Fairlie, and Carrie Carlson are students' music professors were influential in intro­leaving their books behind and entering the world of ducing them to the South Bend Symphony. Music professional musicians. But their positions with the faculty members Karen Buranskas and Laura Klugherz South Bend Symphony are more than just weekend also play in the orchestra, Buranskas as the principal jobs. cellist and Klugherz as concertmistress. 
The applause these four women hear following While each of the women has a different reason for every concert is preceded by weeks ofrehearsals. 
joining the South Bend Symphony, all agree that theAfter a performance, each ofthe 100 musicians in the experience is as_beneficial today as it may prove to besymphony is given the musical scores for the next in the future. 
concert, and has two weeks to prepare for it. Depend­Timmerman explains that the experience ising on the length ofthe program, each concert invaluable for the musician who wishes to continuerequires approximately six rehearsals, each lasting two performing after graduation. The greater the numberand a halfhours. 
of musical scores a musician knows, .the more she hasThe musicians must also prepare themselves for the to offer to a symphony orchestra. As Fairlie says, "It's arehearsals. The time required for private practicing, good idea to keep your feet wet."
however, depends on familiarity with the work. "It's like studying for a test," says Buettner, who plays first Carlson enjoys playing with the symphony because violin with the symphony. the experience allows her to gauge her personal 
Many students carrying full class loads might find accomplishments as a musician. She finds it gratifying, such a part-time job too demanding for their as she says, "to watch the music form, grow, take schedules. But for the student members, some of hold." whom began to play as early as the age offive, music is Carlson says, "After a performance you realize you more a way oflife than it Is a "weekend" job. didn't just play a part· you made music." 
Larison, a violinist; Timmerman, a cellist; and Fairlie, Pretty good for a weekend job. 

/·%,
Paul Cimino 
features staff writer 
Movies 

A sa rule I don't go to movies list. This robot is no slouch, and in a 
.nstarring Arnold Schwarzeneg­very short time, it has disposed of 
ger, but then again, life would be the first two Sarah Conners and 
very boring if we never broke any meets our heroine in a club where -rules. So, with my Thanksgiving it immediately attempts to end her 
break quickly drawing to a close, I life. Just as it is about to blow her 
decided to see what "The Ter­head off, the second-time traveller­
minator" was about. one Kyle Reese (played by Eric 
I should not have broken my rule. Biehn)-pops up from a nearby 
"The Terminator" is a movie table and proceeds to unload five 
about a man, a woman, and a ma­rounds ofbuckshot into the 
chine. Ifnothing else, at least there machine-man in a futile attempt at 
is a show ofsome diversity among destroying it. Reese then quickly 
characters. The film begins in Los grabs at a disbelieving Sarah and 
Angeles (like all movies these days) leads her out of the club as they 
with the arrival ofa Terminator -a begin their flight from the Ter· 
super-strong, armored robot with a minator. He explains why he and 
computer for its brain and a totally the cyborg journeyed back in time 
human appearance. Immediately from the year 2029 and also gives 
aft._... the Terminator drops in her and the audience a detailed 
(literally), so does the man who has description of the Terminator's 
been assigned to hunt this cyborg anatomy and abilities. 
killer wherever It goes. Following a The Terminator is always close 
short confrontation with a group of behind and the pair is hard-pressed 
L.A. punks, the Terminator begins to come up with a way to destroy it its assignment: it must hunt down while eluding both it and the and destroy every Sarah Conner in police. Needless to say, there is the city. another underlying plot going on 
The woman in question, Sarah). throughout this chase and it con­Conner (played by Linda Hamilton) cerns the reasons behind Sarah and is the third girl on the machine's Resse's pursuit. Suffice it to say that 

My letter to the world 

Rev. Robert Griffin 
feutures columnist 
Letters to a Ion 

G
oing hal.·k East for Christmas, friends will complain: "You haven't wriuen." "So what else is new? I never 
write," I will reply. "But you promised you'd write." "I always promise I'll write. It 
makes it easier 10 say goodbye. Promising to write is a social con· vcntion to make: goodbyes less drc:ary." 
"Ilow do you expect to keep any friends if you never bother to write or <.·all? You n>Uld be dead and buried, and I'd never hear." 
"I'll ask the undertaker to send you an announcement wht•n he's laying me out." I don't lose many friends for not writing. Friends worth keeping are tolerant people. lkspite their complaints, they know I don't write. 'Jlle ritual of protest seem~ necessary to let me sec that they arc working harder at tht· friendship than I am. I am al­ways pleased and honored when anyone In the world writes to me, though they'll never get an answer hy mail. 
I have a long history of not writing. 'lbt.· saddest memory is of my mother a.' an old lady, after a time I wa.o; away from home for a year. When I tlnally went to Maine to sec ht·r nearly blind, sht· cried a.o; sht· toucht·d my face with her hands. "I wa.o; afraid you had died, and they weren't telling me," she kept saying. "I couldn't understand why I didn't hear from you." Sht· nt·ver got over the memory. At her dt·ath, sightlt'ss and out of touch with rt·ality, she didn't recognize me when I stood by her bed. I told her who I wJs. "Oh, no," she said, "he died, you know. My son is dt·ad." With regrets like that on my 
I conscience, nobody has the power 
i 
I 
:a perfect role for Schwarzenegger 
I 
the possible future of the world are at stake and the future can be changed by changing the past. The ending of the film, although an expected climax, is full ofenergy and excitement and certain to provide some suspense. 
This is tht· perfect role for Arnold Schwarzeneggcr. He has to play a machine which is devoid ofall feeling for the people which it must deal with every day. It knows only that it is programmed to kill and does just that. No character <.level· opment is needed and Arnold is further blessed with a minimum of lines (which Is probably a good Idea). 
Unda Hamilton Is not had. She has to deal with the hokcy cornl· ness Inherent in this theatrical effort and does a good job. Her chara<.·tcr's outlook on life changcs during the film and she is constantly being forccd to show a strong will and abundant mettle. Hamilton portrays these changes effectively and as such is due credit. 
Eric Bichn got a rough role to deal with and it shows. Reese's character must be developed in a very short span oftime and because of this, more t·orn Is added to the storyline. If not for the script, he might have been able to show some true acting ability. 
'Inc strength of this movie lies in thc special effects used for the Terminator. More than once, to shame me very much. I didn't do it for her. Now I wouldn't care personally ifI did it for the Pope. 
As a columnist in the national Catholic press, I get extraordinary mail: letters from teenagers looking for loopholes out of the confusion ofbeing young, and the folly of young mistakes; letters from Cat· holies anxious to argue, or Cat· holies wanting to sec God; letters from marriage partners with prob· I ems, letters from parents having gricvances with their kids; letters from Christians battling with sin, hoping for the sacrament ofpen· ance with absolution through the mail; letters from poets with oeuvre they wish published; letters from old timers weeping for the lost glory of the Church; letters from admirers wanting to say, "Well done, and hang in there;" letters from readers saying Father Griffin has a soul mate, and all is not lost. I read every letter twice, at the post office, and latcr in my room. Then I throw it into a pile. When I have enough piles, I hag them. When I have enough bags, I box them, and hide them away in a closet. Later, when I need the' space, I read them a final time before throwing them out, saving the most precious or unforgettable pieces. When strang­crs send me money, I often leave it untouched for fear ofobligating myself. I would hate to answer a letter in response to money that I wouldn't answer in response to a cry from the heart. 
Occasionally, thinking of my mother, Isend a small note -or ask a friend to composc a note -to an old charmer whom even an artful dodger like me can't resist. 
Dear old pals with their humor understand my lack ofclass. As for 
Schwarzeneggcr performs a little very believable. Furthermore, the 
on-the-spot surgery which is as climax is an overblown version of 
amazing as it is disgusting. Another the last IS minutes ofa "Friday the plus is the various car chases which 13th" flick. The plot itself becomes show offsome n·ry fine camera rather boring with the onset of the work. As with anything, though, corny explanations and, all-in-all, there arc numerous bad points the film loses its appeal rather which, in this case, outweigh the quickly. 
good. The gunshots, explosions, Do yours_clf a favor· wait until 

and ineptness of the LAPD arc not this one makes it to the tube. 
~------------------~ 
For the week ending 12/2/84 
This Last Week Week 
1. (2) Two Tribes, Frankie Goes to Hollywood 
2. (4) Like a VIrgin, Madonna 
3. (3) Tenderness, General Public 
4. (6) Another Day in the Big World, Eurogliders 
s. (1) Still on Fire, Aztec Camera 
6. (7) IfIt Happens Again, UB40 
7. (9) Big In japan, Alphavillc 
8. 
(-) Are You Experienced, Devo 

9. 
(-) Freedom, Wham I 10, (-) Listening, Pseudo Echo 


Pick ofthe Week:Materlal Girl, Madonna 
new acquaintances, pounding the pavemcnt into a quagmire with their impatience, I figure they will live and learn. I caper before their rebuke~. turning witticisms and staying stubborn, never apologizing or explaining. Ifanyone tries to take me on a guilt trip, I let him see the cold, glittering eye of the shirker, on whom the tricks don't work. 
Why do I hate to write letters? Because I don't know how to do it casually, without editing and revi­sions. Orators, used to the public, lose the fine art ofsmall talk. '!bey ask you to pa.o;s the butter at dinner in locutions shaped to shake up the Parliament. Similarly, I couldn't type a weather report without finding figures ofspeech for it, and the usc ofmetaphors is an art form appropriate for an audience. It takes me three hours of writing to ask the gas company to send a bill. Besides, I have a limited supply of energy: all the phrases I can invent have prom­ises to keep, and miles to go before I sleep. The columns use up all my resources oflanguage; when I've finished, I don't have enough words left to leave a note for the maid. I stare into the blue for hours, waiting for the empty space to fill up again; hoping it doesn't, not wanting to remember how sen­tences are made. I feel all burnt out; and in a crisis, I'd have to be taught a word to swear with. 
When I go East, I'll not go cring­ingly. IfLauren Bacall wants to know why she hasn't heard from me, I'll answer in dl!.co chic: "Darling, I thought it was a lady's prerogative to have the last word. I wanted to make it easy for you." It's not much ofa silencer, but it heats Bogie's chauvinism: "There ain't nothin' wrong with any dame that couldn't be cured by a rap in the mouth." You have to be careful with types like Lauren. Eventually, she'll have all her correspondence published, as a cheap way ofauthor­ing a book. Broadway stars arc infamous for using obscure priests in Northern Indiana as their step· ping stones. 

Friday, December 7, 1984 -page 8 -9 
• 

-.-.....-.~.-.,.. .~.IJ!.II!I.IIII!!I·III!!·~·!II·!I 
• ~ • Wef?l2fjr<l • ~ • 
•MOVIES 
Don't miss the SAB presentation of"The Empire Strikes Back" in 
which Luke Skywalker becomes ajcdi warrior and must once again 
face the terrifying Darth Vader. Is it a battle between the good and 
bad forces? Or is it a battle between father and son? Find out 
tonight or tomorrow night at 7, 9: l S, or II:30 in the Engineering 
Auditorium. Admission is S I.SO. 
Tonight, the Friday Night Film Series will present "Celeste." 'Ibis 
1982 German film with English subtitles is based on the memoirs of 
the author's devoted housekeeper, Celeste Alharct. lllc film will he 
shown at 7:30 and 9:30 in the Annenburg Auditorium, and 
admission will he $2.SO. 
•MUSIC 
Tonight at 8 in Washington Hall "Dimensions in jazz" will be 
presented by the Notre Dame jazz bands. The"Monday Night" Jazz 
Band, under the direction ofFather George Wiskirchcn, will 
include music by Herbie Hancock, Charlie Mingus, along with 
compositions from the library of Duke Ellington and Count Ba.'iie. 
La Confidencia, the popular Chicago salsa band, will perform the 
hot spicy sounds of the Carribhean tonight at 7 in the Center for 
Social Concerns. The group has been hailed as the top salsa band in 
the Midwest for its vocalists, its brass secton, and its pulsating 
swing that defies the listener's ability to sit still. The concert is free 
but donations will be accepted for the Casa de Amistad in South 
Bend. 
On Sunday the Notre Dame Music department will present Stephen Clapp and Frances Walker of the Oberlin Conservatory in a guest violin and piano recital. The program, which commences at 4 
p.m. in the Anncnburg Audit(>rium, will include workshy Brahms, Debussy, and Chopin. 
A program oforgan works by Reger, Bach, Hciller, DeGrigny, and Duruflc will be performed by Becky Bruick, a Notre Dame graduate student, beginning Sunday at 8 in Sacred Heart Church. This wlll be the second in a series of three Sunday evening concerts spon.'iorcd by the Notre Dame Office of Ministry and the department of music during the season ofAdvent. Admission to the concerts is free. 
•THEATRE 
This weekend will be the final performances of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre presentation of"Thc Dramatist." The pcrformant·es will be tonight and tomorrow night at 8 In O'Laughlin Auditorium. All scats are reserved. Call the Box Office at 284-4626. 
•ART 
The exhibitions, "Mcstrovic: Works from the Ivan Mcstrovlc Estate" and "Christmas Themes by Ivan Mestrovic," will be on display in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries at the Snite until Dec. 30. 
"Renaissance Drawings from The Ambrosiana" wlll be on display at the Snitc until Dec. 30. This exhibition, organized by the Medieval Institute, includes 80 drawings selected from the Bibliotica Ambrosiana's collection in Milan Italy. 
Hours at the Snite are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Friday; l to 4 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays; and Thursday evenings from 4 to8p.m. 
"Spheres and Platters," an exhibit by Tom Ncuninck, will continue in conjunction with the Saint Mary's Regional Student Exhibition, through Dec. 13 in the Hammes Gallery of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's. Gallery hours are 9:30 to noon and l to 3 p.m. on Monday through Friday and 1 to 3 p.m. on Sunday. 
•NAZZ 
Tonight,John Kennedy will present a special evening oflrish and original folksongs, sing-alongs, and musical fun from 8 to I 2 in the Nazz. 
Saturday will mark the Eighth Annual Christma.'i Nazz. The festivities will begin at 8 and will include acts by Howard Hall, a performance hy the Sacred Heart Chorale, and, ofcourse, (free) hot chocolate and cookies. 
•DANCE 
The Beaux Arts Ballet Company will present the Christma.o; festival "God is Love" this evening in the Bendix Theatre of the Century Center. The pcrfromance traces God's love for man from the creation through the nativity with dance, song and music. The program will begin at 7:30. Tickets are available at the Century Center Box Office: adults, S6 and children, S3. 
Tomorrow night, the "Angry Stewardesses," also known a.o; Notre Dame's funniest dance band, wlU perform in Chautauqua. '!be group wlll play everything from the Monkccs and JoeJackson to U-2 and R.E.M. Admission is free. 
•MASS 
The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend wlll be: Father Robert Kennedy at S:l5 p.m. (Saturday night vigil). Father Nicholas A yo at 9 a.m. Father Edward Malloy at I 0:30. Father Richard Bullcnc at 12: IS. 
-
-. j 
~ 

j 
-

i• 
! 
~ ~ 
J 

-The Observer Friday, December 7, 1984-page 10 
DePaul 
continuedfrom page 16 
each in the four games this year. Pat­terson is the "indispensable" Blue Demon, the man responsible for running the offense. jackson calls Patterson "the best ball handler I've ever seen," and compares him to lsiah Thomas. 
And that's your starting lineup. 
But wait-there's more. 
There's Dallas Comegys. 
"It's a great basketball team, no question about it," says Phelps. "Anytime you can have a talent like Comegys coming off the bench, you've got a good situation." 
It's a great situation if you're DePaul. Comegys, a sophomore, didn't start a game last year, but still wasn't shy about shattering Corzine's record for rejections in a single season with 79. Coming off the bench, Comegys also managed to be the team's second-leading scorer and rebounder. 
For more size off the bench, there's 6-11 junior center Lemone Lampley and 6-8 freshman forward Kevin Golden. 
For the Irish, junior center Tim Kempton has recovered from an ankle injury and is expected to play in tomorrow's game, although he will not start. So how will Kempton be utilized? 
"We will sub Kempton when Comegys comes in," says Phelps. "That's 250 pounds against 195 pounds." 
Okay. Simple enough. 
"This is a very physical DePaul team," Phelps says. "You gotta have somebody in there who's gonna knock some people around, and Kempton does that. He plays a very physical game." 
Phelps says the key to beating the Blue Demons is to play defense, which the Irish showed they could do against No. 11-ranked Indiana on Tuesday. 
"We can't let them run and shoot the way they want to," says Phelps. "We've got to stress transition defense. 
"For us to compete against that type of quickness, we'd like to get into the transition game. We're not going to change anything that we've done our first four games. 

"We have a lot of confidence 
going into this game. This is a Notre 
Dame moment. We'll capitalize on 
it." 

On Sunday, the Irish face Val­paraiso in the dedication game ofthe Crusaders' new Athletics­Recreation Center. Notre Dame leads the series between the two teams, 26-1, including the last 25 straight. 
The Crusaders have eight new faces on their roster as they attempt to rebound from last year's 9-19 season. Head coach Tom Smith's top returnees are 6-7 senior forward John Geary and 6-6 sophomore Rick Pickren. 
"I'm sure Valpo will be emotion­
ally ready," says Phelps. "We've got 
to come back after playing DePaul 
the previous afternoon." 

IRISH ITEMS • After the Val­paraiso game, the Irish do not play again until Sunday, December 30, when they take on Creighton in Omaha. 
NVA will sponsor raft trip over spring break 
ByTOMYOON 
Sports Writer 

Over spring break next year, Non-Varsity Athletics will spon­sor a six-day whitewater river­rafting trip down the Colorado River, through a location in the Cataract Canyon in southeastern Utah. 
"This trip will allow the stu­dents to experience nature first hand," says Sally Derengoski, NVA's coordinator of recrea­tional services. "And those who do go will have the time of their lives. But the trip itself is a par­ticipatory course in which every person must do their own part because each person will get to captain their own raft down the rapids." 
No previous experience is nec­essary to participate. A meeting for all interested in the trip will be held on Sunday, December 9, at 7 p.m. in the ACC Football Auditorium. 
The total cost for the trip is 
$280,  which  includes  all  the  
equipment for  six days.  
The  price  does  not  include  

travel to and from the Cataract Canyon, but the NVA office will be glad to assist any students in arranging travel plans. 
The trip is co-sponsored by the Colorado Outward Bound or­ganization, who are at the top of their field in experiencing na­ture. 

The Obsen•er Notre Dame olfke. locatt·d on tht· third tloor of LaFortune Student C:t"ntcr. accepts classified advntising from<) a.m. until c~ p.m.. ,\1onday through friday. The Ohserz•er Saint Mary's office. located on the third tloor of Haggar College Center. accepts classifieds from 12:50 p.m. until :1 p.m .. Mon· day though Friday. Deadline tlJr next-day classilinb is .~ p.m All cla"itit-ds must he prepaid. t·ither in pt·rson or hy mail.< .harge is I 0 cents per five: charac·
Classifieds 
tc:rs cr dav. 

NOTICES  LOST · TI-30 calculator lost in Eng. Auditorium Thur. 6th. If found please call  Need ride to DC Maura2885  leaving 12/19.  Call  MTV World Premiere Video Release Featuring  The only good things that come out of Arkansas are hogs. Otnk, Oink!!II!  ALH Can't wait to get CLOSE on Satur­day! love, a non-prude  
Cam at3533. Thanks.  K2 ·LIVE GIG FROM DAJLLAS  
starring Notre Dame student  GLOOMEY TOOMEY says-Lobotomized  
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81187 TYPING  LOST: Leather WILSON ""JET" Basket­ball in the ACC on Friday, November 30, 1984, in the afternoon, in or around Gym  FOR SALE  Chris Prebys Corning to you soon.. Look to your hall message board for fur­ Kevin Per your inquiry Wed. night -my accoun­tants are pleased to announce that your  and ready to party! 10 thlnga you Clln do wtth  HORSE  
Jackie Boggs 684-8793  2. Oefinate ldentifica-tion can be made. If found, PLEASE CALL 283-4335. 0  ther details  account has been paid in lull -your credit is good with me! Be sure to ask about the  DIED I NEED RIDE TO BOSTON I (a book of OBSERVER dassifieds) 1. Read it to  
NEED TYPING: CALL DOLORES 27Ni045 PICKUP AND DEUVERY  LOST!!! My pet lizard is missing, he answers to the name of JIMMY He's about 5 feet 10 inches tall, blonde, and very POLISH!! (how's it goin'?)  FOR SALE: '72Skylark Body: Poor Engine: Good S500 or beat offer Jell 21111-2042  N-ROSE: Do it up in "The Burgh""!!! -Luv, LOPPY ······················ ································ MOSIE-DOTES; WELCOME TO N.D. I KNOW WEU HAVE FUN. LOVE, BUB.  delayed payment program -just in time for Christmas!! (I don't need to sign this since everyone in Holy Cross knows this is tc; you and from me anyway!!)  see if you're a published author. 2. Read it just to laugh. 3. Buy it as a keepsake of your glonous years here. 4. Give it to your Kris Kringle. 5-10. Bring 6 copies home and sell them at a profit.  
GOVERNMENT  JOSS.  116,5511  •  TO THE FAMOUS ARKIE LOVE TRAIN:  
150,553/y-. Now Hiring. Your ArM. Cllll 805-68NIOOO, Ext. R-11834. EXPERT TYPING 2n-8534 AFTER 5:30 EXPERIENCED TYPIST WILL DO  FOR RENT ROOMMATE WANTED CASTLE POINT APTS. CAU MIKE 2n-6463  for sale! 76'VW RABBIT great conditions for info callt459 1971 OPEL2 DR,4 SPEED, 115,000 MI. DECENT BODY, RUNS WEU, $150. 239 6298 OR 283 2102  Interested in getting involved with The Observer, as well as learning to edit? The Accent department is currently ac­cepting applications for F•tu,. Copy Editor, a paid position. If interested, con­tact Mery Healy at the Observer office. 239-5313.  SPRINGSTEEN FANS:Born in the USA LIVE tape(90min) .lndudes Dancing in the Oark,Pink Cadillac,Born to Run,and 13 others.Good sound Only $8.Call2036  Take heart, boys -­it's almost over. If Dave wakes up. and Jody does some work. and Hopeless gives up Quarter Beers, y'all might all finish by tomorrow' (and. uh, the formal was fun anyway) Love. Karma and the campus icon  
TYPING. CAU: 287·5162. EXPERT TYPING SERVICE.  CALL  WIU SHARE MY LUXURY TOWNHOUSE WITH TWO RESPON­SIBLE/TRUSTWORTHYI FRIENDLY  Blue Jean jacket--bought last break-­never worn--need xmas $-·best offer Bill  NINER FEVER. ..NINER FEVER .. NINER FEVER... NINER FEVER The Super Bowl  Happy Birthday. Gretchen! Thanks for the great year! Love, John  HEY N.Y. METRO CLUB-BUS SIGN· UPS MON. DEC. 10 AT 7PM (2ND  
MRS. COKER, 233-70011. EN DAD SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS '85 AP­PLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE CEN­ MALE STUDENTS FOR NEXT TERM. 7 MIN. WALK TO MAIN CAMPUS. CALL LEN 272-8582 AFTER 5 P.M. FOR IN­TERVIEW. house for rent;walk to NO remodled, hd  1597  PERSONALS  is coming to Stanford and the NINERS will be there .... What happened to JOe Theis­mann and the 'Skins?... 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS 49ERS  To all women lucky enough to ba asked to Keenan's Xmas in Hawaii date dance: Stop by the revival of the ZOO. 2 WEST, and see their award winning doors. The 12 days will never be the same!  FLOOR LAFORTUNE). BUS LEAVES WED 12·19AT8PM. $80 P.A. $85W.P. ·········································•·· Melissa--MERRY CHRISTMAS--Have a great day! Your B.P. K.K. ································  
TER FOR SOCIAJL CONCERNS. MARCH FOR LIFE! ND/SMC Right to Ute wants you to help the unborn by par­ticipating in the MARCH FOR LIFE in  wd firs, fireplace,garage 1 1/2 baths upstairs totally carpeted (new) $275. pr moflutil call287-7178 Housemale needed: cheap rent walking  PREGNANT? NEED HELP? CAU 234· 0363.24 hour hotline/free pregnancy test available. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER  WANTED: RIDE TO O'HARE ON DEC. 18. I NEED TO BE AT THE AIRPORT BY 2:30PM. PLEASECAUJOHNAT 1118.  Where can you find ripe melons, hard bananas. stuffed bikinis, Winchester, and the Brady Bunch? 2 ZOO! 2 ZOO! 2 ZOO' 2ZOO!  CHRISTMAS TUCK-INS Send a BED­TIME story and COOKIES to someone for Christmas!! $!-available in the dining halls Fri. & Sat. Delivered on Sun. and Mon. nights.  
Washington D.C. on Jan. 22. Info soon in  distance to NO. $93.75 permo plus one  TO  MARY  HERRERA:  LET'S  GET  ..............................................................  
basement of LaFortune. Thank you!  fifth of utilities. Two baths, two refrig's lg  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,  BOMBED ON  PEARL HARBOR  DAY!  Beautiful! Wonderful! Impressive! Thanks  
living rm kitchen graduate house. Ph 287­ CARRY OUT 'TIL 3 A.M., US 31 N., ONE  HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY!! LOVE, AN­ THE FIRST BLOW HAS BEEN STRUCK.  to the NO Men's Glee Club We loved it!·  
endad  7178  BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  GELAND PATTY  LET'S  STAMP  OUT  MS  IN  OUR  Holy Cross  
LIFETIME. TONIGHT!!  
Wordprocessing and typing· 272-8827.  SENIORS,  SENIORS:  HAND  IN  TO OUR ""UTILE FRIEND"" MARY HER­ Desperately  need  ride  to  TEXAS  for  

 PROFILES FOR INVITATIONAL INTER·  RERA: WELCOME TO WOMANHOOD!!  Bob and Ralph-Get a due' Our pulses are  Christmas! Can leave the 18th. Shannon  
--~~~;,;~~~~----~~~....__W_A_NT_E_D____,  VIEWS FROM JAN. 28-FEB. 15 DURING WEEK OF DEC. 3. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES.  HOPE 21ST!  YOU HAVE A VERY HAPPY ······•···································••·  fine;it must bayou! DOCTOR! GO GET  NISSA  BACK'  284-4411  
RIDE NEEDED: Need ride to Upstate New York (Syracuse or Albany area) can  YOU HAVE A BEAUTIFUL BODY AND ARE WORTH THE WORLD  Riders needed to Minneapolis on Mon. Dec. 17. Call Joan at 1580.  SARAH SUTION IS A GODDESS! ...........................,,. HERE'S YOUR CHANCE TO BE  A  Eunice Smith Happy third month anniver­sary. Ozzie loves Harriette  
LOST ·room & car keys on a BU0­WEISER key chain lost between South Dining Hall & Dillon ~ found please call  leave Wednesday December 19 at noon. Call Brendan at 2275.  ............................................... HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARK only 1657 more days  Hey Julie Smith! Yeah, you! Usten up! I got somethmg to say! (pause for dramatic effect)  STAR-TRYOUTS FOR THE BCAF FAS­HION SHOW WIU BE HELD THE WEEK OF JANUARY 21ST.TRYOUTS WIU BE  Hey guys! Maura Hickey is going to Spain next semester, why don't you give her a call and wish her luck.  
tnB-Thanks!  Need ride to New Orleans for Christmas  I Love You  HELD  IN  LAFORTUNE  BALL·  
STOLEN: MY BICYCLE From the back of Cavanaugh, Wed. 28th or Thurs. 29th; is an old-type crui-. red body, white rims, black seat, white hand grips; no fenders; C'mon, dude, give me a break. I live O.C. and it's my only transportation; Any info, CALL JOE No questions asked 2n-38n  Break. Can leave anytime after Decem­ber 20. Call Paul COLLECT at (312)388­6458. WANTED :Garage space for rent dose to campus. Call J.A. 2012 WANTED: CHEAP COUCH, WE'U TRANSPORT 2361  Juli Whatever happened to Bing Crosby? Jimi Hendrix? Elvis Presley? Wally Cox? Jim Croce? Hany Chapin? Otis Red­ding? Paul Lynde? Freddie Prinze? John Belushi? Keith Moon? Charlie Weaver? Jon-Erik He(.um? NatBlie Wood? Gary Gilmore? Ed Sullivan? John Lsnnon? John Bonham? Ronnie Van Zandt?  Hi. ENTERING YOUR AD: --Type ad in from keyboard -Hit RETURN bafore reaching STOP in­dicators -Do NOT hyphenate at line end -use next line --MISTAKE? RUBOUT key backspaces, erases on same line  ROOM.TAKE A CHANCE-BECOME A STAR. Cigarettes and Whiskey and HOLY CROSS WOMEN! They'll drive you CRAZY. they'll drive you INSANE. How many more days? With love. The Glee Club  Matt. Deron. John. Hope y'all are ready for a wild night! So you want to sink the Battleship huh? The Knute Rockne Suite will definitely rock tonight! We can't wait! Your Favorite Dates ......................······ ..................~..... Hey. Utile Japanese Guy: Have a Happy ""SLAP THE JAP" Day! We love ya HONEY!!! LOVE. T&T  
Money found last week on the grass near Memorial Ubrary. Call 283-1904 if you  HELP WANTED: PART·TIME SPORTS WRITER TO WORK FRI. NIGHTS &  Buddy Holly? George Gipp? Janis Joplin? Minnie Riperton? Karen  --MISTAKE on prior line? REWRITE op­tion when finished  ATIENTION NO MALES Are there any of  Is my BUDDY around???  
want to daim it. ························ ...................... HORSE DIED-NEED MY MITIENS BACK.II anybody picked up my blue leat­ SOME TUESDAY NIGHTS COVERING HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS. SEND LET· TER AND CUPS TO MAn BEAL, SPORTS EDITOR, THE DAILY STAR,  Carpenter? Lyman Bostock? Carrol/ Rosenbloom? Ray Kroc? Philip Wrigley? Hubert Humphrey? Thurman Munson? Uri Andropov? Konstan#n Chernenko?  --FINISHED? Type ENOAD at beginning of line, hit RETURN --Computer will ask for DATE and GATE· GORY  you out there that really know how to "treat"" a girl? (I really doubt this!) signed, Loo-Loo (with multiple O's)  Final quote of the semester: ""Men are pigs. Men are srum." (compl. of BAM.H.)  
her mittens at the last horne football  217 N. 4TH ST., NILES, Ml411120.  Anwar Sedat? Benigno Aquino? Mao  --Use $/Line indicator as cost estimate  Mary Herrera! Happy Birthday from a fel­ 
game-Penn. State. Please return them to  Tse-Tung?  guide  low HATer, video star and Pillsbury bake­ 
Kevin-3828 NOW!  Riders needed to Minneapolis on Mon. Dec. 17. Call Joan at 1580.  Santa can't deliver my presents to Notre  --Wipe hands on pants  off champion. All MY empethy, Junior  jicoupon .... coupon .... coupo~  
LOST: New. bllack, compact umbrella with wood handle. Lost in Washington Hall or Ubrary, 2nd floor. If you have it, please call George. 3499/3200.  Need ride to Cleveland, on Thurs. or Friday, Dec. 6 or 7. Will share usual. Call Dan Reagan at 234·0494 (night) or 239­7312 (day)  Dame so I NEED A RIDE TO NEW JER· SEY FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK. 11 you Clln give me a ride Clllf Sarah at1333. I've got a date with Santa for Christmas  Toby ... Indeed? ...Johanna HUNGRY? CAU THE YELLOW SUB AT 272-4453. FREE DELIVERY MO-TH 8­ JUNIORS Anyone interested in working on a slide show for JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND, please call Kathleen 1335. Dear Margaret, Were you wearing your  ~H~~;s~;l  
LOST INTERMEDIATE ACCT. TEXT  and I don't want to stand him up, so help  11 pm FR-SA Bpm-tam  bra(support) during our Dec. 4th English  
(Chasteen) from South Dining Hall on Dec. 5. Initials ""MP" on Book. Call 232·  Need to sell my place on the NO ski team's trip to Colorado Jan. 4 -11. Will  me and the jolly old e~ get together in St. Louis. If you can give me a ride there for  ......•.•..••....................•.. DON'T GIVE UP YET!!! You can still get to  dass? We're dying to know! Signed, Their Admirers.  
0648 no questions asked.  negotiate price. Nora 4271  Christmas break call Maureen at 1333.  New York for only $182.00' Fly to Laguar­ 
- Lost : Basketball tickets at IU game. In  Grandma's Toll House cookies are in the  ........................ STAINS IS A BIG TOOL· THATS ALL  dia Airport on Dec. 19 with the Long Island Club. But don't wait too long, seats are  MARK OBES: THESE ADS ARE DIP· PING INTO OUR CASH FLOW. WE'RE  Send a Christmas  
section 5, may have been given to person in row 6. Please call Jack ]239-n09 or 2n-6479. Thanx.  oven • I've got to get to PITISBURGHI Finished on 12/14. Please call Tom ]287­3263/287-3138.  !!!!!!! ............................................. MEN OF N.D. CALENDARS: For sale in  limited. Call Pete Laches at 2453, or Paul Citarelli at 1762. Call now'  NOT INTO THAT, BUT WE'D LOVE TO BE ""COORDINATED"!  personal to a good friend.  
room204 Walsh or319 Farley. $Beach or  Thank You, St. Jude.  RICK RICK RICKAGE.. YOU ARE A  
FOUND:  PAIR  OF  WOMEN'S  IF  SOMEONE  IS  GOING  INTO  2 for $10.  ·······························································  HELL OF A FRIEND  
EYEGLASSES IN RED VELVET CASE OUTSIDE OF WAJLSH. CAJLL 283-1667. LOST: Green Ski Gloves with blue on the palms. Lost at SMC. Call 284-4418 or  CHICAGO SATURDAY MORNING. THERE ARE TWO WOMEN IN LYONS HAU WHO ARE LOOKING FOR A RIDE. WE'VE GOT TICKETS TO THE DEPAUL BASKETBAU GAME SO WE EITHER  PITISBURGH CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS Slgnupa, LaFortune Little Th•ter thla Sunday at 7 p.m. $45 round trip, $30 one way. Two bu-, Tu•. M>d Weda.  CUDDLES: I hope you're not going to box thla y.,, Dumpllnga. DUM­PLINGS: Aw Cudcll•, come on. I'm tough u nalla. CUDDLES: Whllt about that little act~~tch though, Dumplea?  PAT CARROU: Someone is thinking about you! Have a good day and remember--it's Friday! Love. your KK  Just bring in this coupon and receive 50 cents off your next classified ad order.  
drop off at rm. 442 Holy Cross(SMC). REWARD OFFERED' LOST ·Blue Wool Blazer In South Dining Hall Tues. evening. If found please call 3615/323 Lewis-Sentimental Value in­volved.  NEED A RIDE OR IT'S THE SOUTHSHORE FOR US! IF YOU CAN HELP US OUT WE WOULD BE WILLING TO SHARE THE COST OF THE GAS, ETC. CAU MAUREEN AT 2900 IF IN· TERESTED. HELP MAKE OUR WEEKEND MEMORABLE!!!  TONIGHT! You've been waiting all week, and now It's finally time to celebrate CHRISTMAS AT THE ALOHA BOWl. with the men of St. Ed's. Festivities offi­cially begin at 10:30 in the St. Ed's party room. See you there! TONIGHT!  DUMPLINGS: You mean that alaah? LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: Th.,. Ia a dance on FRIDAY from 7:30 to 10 pm and CHRISTMAS REC Saturday. Come and wtah the klda a MERRY CHRISTMAS fill  Penoche sur I' esprit... CHRIS JANICIK: Contrary to popular balief, we do care about other people--not many it's true, but we do care about YOU!!! Love ya! Your adoring roomies. OW, TC and AJB.  One coupon per order (order includes total days ad is to run). Hurry! Offer expires December 12, 1984.  
• coupon .... coupon .... coupon.  


The Observer Friday, December 7, 1984-page 11 
WANTED! Systems Manager 
The Observer is looking for a Systems Manager to assume duties at the start of next semester. Responsibilities include: 
•Supervise 
operation of 16-user Alpha-Micro computer system. 

• 
Software improvements as needed and routine hardware maintenance. 

•Supervise 
operation of Mergenthaler VIP phototypesetter. 


For more information, call Kevin Williams or Bob Vonderheide at The Observer, 239-5323. 

SAVE WITH PIZZA HUT® SPECIAl. DELIVERY 
IN SOUTH BEND AND MISHAWAKA 

RD. 
232-2499 ~~~ 

"And delivery is FREE!" Get the great taste of Pizza Hut® pizza delivered right to your door! Call the number shoNn above for Pizza Hut® Special Delivery to your area. 
FRESH! HOT! littST! 
Hours: 4:00pm· 12M, Sun . • Thurs. 4:00pm ·2:00am, Fri . • Sat. 
Umited Delivery Area. Our drivers carry no more than $20.
r--------­
1 $30FF I any Large Pizza
I~~~!:.~~~~':!,~' 
I 
partiCipating Pizza Hut' Special Delivery units. Not valid lor dine-in or carryout, or in oombination with any otfler Pizza Hut' offer Umited Delivery Area. Offer good only on regular menu prices through 
I CAI.I.: 232-~499 
Interhall season opens 
Off Campus is favorite in hockey 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Campus refuses to rest on its laurels. pected to skate off with the division !>ports Writer "We have to play every game like title. Captain Ed Domansky is confi­it was a semi-final," says Off Campus dent but not overly so. 
Have you wandered by the ACC captain Tim Farrell. "We can't let up, "We've got to play as the under­after midnight and wondered who especially against teams like Grace." dog every night," says Domansky. could possibly be playing hockey? Farrell also said that his team had "No one likes to be over-confident. Have you heard the sound of clank­some extra incentive for last Mon­We're looking to play tough games ing skates at one in the morning day's game. on defense. Our goaltender hasn't while you're trying to sleep? If the 'We dedicated this game to Kerry played the position for very long so answer to either of these questions Axelsson (a former ND student who we'd like to help him out as much as is "yes", then you've encountered died last week). She lived here for possible by not letting the opposi­Notre Dame interhall hockey which two years and we wanted to do tion take too many shots." began earlier this week. Two-time something for her memory. We For most teams, having enough defending champion Off Campus is aren't dedicating the whole season players is a major concern as the early season favorite to skate to her, just this game. The guys evidenced by the three combined away with the crown at the end of worked really hard for it." teams. This year teams were split the '84-85 season. Off Campus is expected to face into the basis of dorm size and num­
Off Campus is looking to maintain stiff competition in the Krause divi­ber ofplayers. the type of scoring punch that led s.ion from Grace and Flanner. 'It's tough when you don't have a them to 5-0 shutout ofthe combined Flanner defeated Keenan 5-2 Tues­lot ofplayers," Domansky explained. Cavanaugh-Grace team Mohday day night. Grace saw action late last 'We'd like to have three lines capable night. Off Campus got three goals night against the combined Holy of helping us out. It's tough to play from its "Grace line," which is made Cross-St. Ed's team. In another game teams like Grace, Flanner, and Off up of three seniors who played on from Monday night, Dillon beat Mor· Campus who have the personnel for the same line for Grace Hall the past rissey 6-1 on the strength of team four lines when you can only put three years. Similarly, the "Dillon captain Andy Olive's hat trick. In a two together. The guys get tired in a line" is also expected to add to Off­Corrigan division game, Carrol hurry." Campus' offensive attack. nipped Zahm 2-1. The late starting time ofthe games 
Despite its past record, Off In the Corrigan division, Alumni, does not seem to bother the players. 
who finished 5-1 last season is ex-"No, it's not too bad," said Keenan captain Tom Grote. "It's good to play that late after the studying's done, unless you have a test the next morning."
TYPING 
So if you're out late some night Term Papers 
after studying, don't go to Darby's or the Nazz. Stop by the ACC and check
Resumes 

out Irish interhall hockey. 
Letters Manuscripts Word Processing 

CaD Chris at: 
234-8997 

·····························~ 
: Interested in working at the : 
: student general store : 
• next semester? •
•

• Applications now available for: ••• manager • • assistant manager • • part-time employees . • 
: Pick up applications NOW in Student : • Government offices, • 
• 2nd Floor LaFortune 
• 

• Applications Due: Wed, Dec 12 by 4:00 pm • 
•• Pending Passage a General Store Resolution •• 

ATTENTION Procter&Gamble Prospectfuls SALES MANAGEMENT will also be interviewing the week of February 4th, 1985 
turn 1n your p~r,fiiP~ fr'r invitatiOnal SC'r Pdulng by 08(, 12 at the Career & Placement Off1ce 
Ralph A. Casperson Books 
THOUSANDS OF USED BOOKS ON All SUB~ECTS -WE BUY USED BOOKS . 
HOURS: 
Wod., S.t. A Sun. 9 •.m. · 7 p.m. or by -wotntment 
lieS N.... •••"•-• ... Nllee 615-11811 
-----------~----------------------~----------­
Observer Sports Extra -Women's Basketball 

Friday, December 7, 1984-page 12 
Trena Keys 

Talented junior forward starting to pay dividends as one of leaders of offense 
By MIKE SULLIVAN  contribution as many had expected.  
Sports Editor  However, the 1984-85 season, just five games old,  
.  has provided a showcase for Trena Keys to show off  
"Potential can be a dangerous thing," says Notre  some ofher abilities. The 6-0 junior forward currently  
Dame women's basketball coach Mary DiStanislao.  stands second on the team in scoring with a 15.4  
"You can put it in an account that yields six-percent  average and is also among the team's leading  
interest or you can put it into a money market where it  rebounders.  
makes a lot ofinterest. Sometimes it's a gamble, but  "Trena has really grown up," says DiStanislao. "She's  
you can really benefit a great deal.  not just a talented shooter now. She's a talented scorer,  
"Trena Keys has a great deal ofpotential. She always  a good athlete, and a good team player. She's worked  
has."  on her offense, and she's devoted a lot ofher attention  
It was hardly a gamble when DiStanislao decided to  to developing her defensive game as well."  
make an investment in Keys three years ago. Keys was  Keys is the first to agree with her coach that the  
on her way to winning Indiana's coveted "Miss  hard work has payed off.  
Basketball" award, given annually to Indiana's best  "When you compare this year to my freshman year, I  
high-school basketball player. Her performance of 21.5  think I'm better in all aspects of the game, especially  
points and nine rebounds per game also earned her a  defense," says Keys. "When I came here, I had a lot to  
spot on theParade first-team All-America squad.  learn. I still have got a way to go, but I don't think you  
DiStanislao knew that a player with Keys' potential  ever get to the point where you don't need to learn  
would pay at least a little interest and hopefully a great  anything.  
deal.  "I do think I have a lot more confidence now. I have  
Depending on how you look at it, Keys has paid somewhere between six percent and the money­ to be confident so the freshmen have someone to look toward to learn from."  Irish forward stronger she makes herself, the  Trena Keys almost two years left, Keys has quite  
market rate. Those who expected her to step right in  DiStanislao has shown a lot ofconfidence in Keys'  more ofan asset she can be on that  a bit more time to fulfill her poten­ 
and dominate the games may have been disappointed,  abilities as well by giving her a major role in the Notre  end."  tial. Two years ago, DiStanislao said  
but, unarguably, she has been a valuable addition since  Dame offense. The improvement in statistics is proof  Keys, herself, looks at her role as  that her potential was "endless,"  
she was a freshman.  thaf getting the ball in her hands will pay many  more than scoring points and  and the situation has not changed  
DiStanislao teams have never been known to  dividends.  playing defense.  since then.  ,  
depend on stars, but rather on the effortSofeight or  "Trena's responsibility is to get herself open at the  "I think my job is to help keep  "Trena can be a great player ifshe  
nine players a game. So it is not surprising that Keys  appropriate time, get the pass in a good position, and  the team together as a whole and  improves on her assets, like her  
did not come close to her high-school numbers.  then make a good decision about whether to shoot or  not let it lose its composure when  shooting and rebounding, and  
However, she did contribute 10.5 points per game  get the ball in to the· other players," explains her  things are going wrong," she says. "I  reduces her liabilities," says DiS­ 
despite playing about halfofevery game. She was the  coach. "She's most effective squaring up and either  also hope that the other players  tanislao. "I think she'll be fine be­ 
third-leading scorer on the 20-7 Irish squad.  shooting or driving to the basket.  look to me in pressure situations,  cause she has got the will to be as  
Last season brought not only a drop-off in the team's  "Obviously the name of the game is scoring more  something that's a big change from  good as she can be."  
performance ( 14-14 ), but also a slight decrease in  than the other team, but you get the odds in your favor  the last two years."  Ifthe rate goes up on money­ 
Keys' statistics. Her scoring average fell to 9.2 points a  by playing good defense. Trena has also done a pretty  For DiStanislao, Keys is looking  market accounts, "as good as she  
game, still fourth best on the team, but not as big a  good job for us on that end of the court, but the  like a very good investment. With  can be" will mean an awful lot.  


Another freshman class looks to make mark 
By MARlY BURNS 
Sports Writer 
When Notre Dame women's basketball coach Mary DiStanislao recruited her first group offreshmen in 1980, she promised a solid nucleus on which to build for the future. That was four years ago and, true to her words, the team enjoyed moderate success over the next three seasons, establishing itself as a legimate contender in its new environment in Division I NCAA women's basketball. 
Once established, Coach DiStanislao felt the Irish women's basketball program would be ready for the next step: a spot among the nation's elite basketball powers. To do this she knew that she would have to hit the recruiting trails hard in order to land some much-needed height and a quality ballhandler to complement her ten returning players from the 1983-84 squad. This new crop of talented players, she hoped, could experience immediate success with the recruits offour years ago and yet be the next base on which to build a national contender. 
What DiStanislao produced from her long recruiting missions last spring was a talented quintet that would have made even the most critical observer take heed. She landed the tallest frontcourt ever, and a pair ofswift ballhandlers to shore up the backcourt depth chart. Among these recruits was an All-America point guard, a 6-2, all-state power forward, and a 6-5 center who is the tallest player in Notre Dame women's basketball history. 
"I feel really good about this class," admits DiStanislao, "What we looked for while recruiting was a class of reasonable size to be the next nucleus to build around. "They're all solid players, with great potential and alot of heart." 
One player who surely does not need a heart transplant, although she may be in the market for a new leg, is 5-6 guard, Mary Gavin. The most highly-touted recruit ofthe group, she comes with a third-team All-America label from Wildwood Catholic High School in North Wildwood, N.J.. Her playing ability has been hampered, however, by a leg brace she is trying to get accustomed to, and a deep thigh bruise on the other leg which kept her out of the Western Michigan game on Wednesday. 
Still, when her bruise heals and she begins to feel comfortable with the brace necessitated by ligament damage suffered in high school, Coach DiStanislao expects great things. 
"Mary's a fine point guard, the first true point guard we've had," notes DiStanislao,"Her biggest weakness is the injury, she's been bothered by that brace." 
Gavin, however, feels there is still a bit more than her brace to get used to. 
"The college game's a lot more competitive and physical," she says, "Also the motion offense ofCoach DiStanislao's was tough to get used to, but it's coming easier now." 
Gavin, despite the problems, has seen action in four games and is finding herself more comfortable with each appear­:.tnce. She is expected to play against Georgetown on Saturday. 

Things have fared much better for 6-2 forward Sandy Botham. The Madison, Wis., native has started all five games of the young '84 campaign and has contributed a 9.8 points per game scoring average along with a total of 20 rebounds. 
"She has a great deal ofstrength," says DiStanislao, "along with a good touch and a lot of mobility. As far as her weaknesses go, she has to control her agressiveness defensively, make better defensive decisions, and work on her rebounding." 
Botham sums up her role when she says, "I'm taking pressure offthe bigger scorers. I just have to help on the rebounds, and do my job in the offense. I do have to be ready 

Irish forward Sandy Botham 
to pick up the scoring slack, though, ifneed be." 
Botham certainly picked up the scoring slack in two particular games for the Irish, hitting 13 points against Tennessee in her college debut and 12 points versus Michigan, both, however, in losing efforts. 
As far as the transitions from high school to college ball, it has not been too difficult for Botham. 
"You have to work a lot harder in practice," she says, "But we're a close team and there is a lot ofsupport. I'm playing power forward, and I post-up and play inside, which I'm used to because I played center in high school and it's a lot like the center's role." 
Of the five freshmen, Beth Morrison carries perhaps the most notable distinction. She is the tallest player in Irish women's basketball history. Although the 6-5 center from St.Louis, Mo., has not seen a great deal ofaction this year, Coach DiStanislao feels nevertheless that she has great potential. 
"She's an excellent athlete and her defense is really coming along," says the Irish coach. "She just need~ time to get settled. She's going to be a big help to the team." 
Morrison showed her eagerness to play on Wednesday 
evening at the ACC as she scored two points and grabbed 
two rebounds against Western Michigan in the last two 
minutes ofplay when she was called from the bench. 
Rounding out the talented freshmen crop are 6-3 forward Kathy Brommeland, and 5-9 guard Kathy Barron. Brom­meland, who calls Naples, Fla., her home, was brought in because ofher versatility in the frontcourt and her deft touch from outside. Though she has not seen much action yet, DiStanislao feels she is the sort ofwell-rounded player that complements the rest ofthe team. 
"Brommeland has wonderful versatility," notes DiStanis­lao. "She'll play away from the basket or take the ball to it. She has the type ofoffensive arsenal that ( 1983-84 team scoring leader) Carrie Bates has. She just has to improve her quickness and agressiveness." 
Kathy Barron, like Brommeland, has not seen much action at this early stage. The all-state player from Okemos, Mich., is seen by DiStanislao as both a wing guard and point guard depending on the situation. 
"Kathy Barron is very flexible," says DiStanislao. "She has good court instincts and can handle the ball. The guards have to be effective, get assists, and score points. She still has a lot to learn, but it will come in the system." 
Until then, DiStanislao seems content togo with her most effective players and confidently await the emergence ofthe younger ones into the college game. 
"They contribute every day as individuals," notes the Irish coach, "They each have things to offer to the team, and they're enthusiastic. As hard as·-that five works, they'll be successful." 
One can feel confident that the success they bring will translate into even better triumphs for the Notre Dame women's program. 
Observer Sports Extra -Women's Basketball Friday, December 7, 1984-page 13 
Women hope for productive season in '84·85 
DiStanislao's team needs consistent play to make bid for NCAAs 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports l!dltor 
Thcrt• comes a time when every building program 
t-eases to become "building" and is expected to 
produce. For the Notre Dame women's basketball 
program, now in its fifth year, the 1984-85 season is 
supposed to he the year that Notre Dame hegins to 
make large waves in the national scene. 
De!ipite a di!iappointing 2-3 start this year, Head 
Coach Mary DiStanislao, who is not coincidentally also 
in her fifth year at Notre Dame, remains optimistic that 
her team can earn a spot in the NCAA Tournament. 
With I 0 players, representing 96 percent of the 
st-oring and rebounding, returning from last year's 
~quad, she has plcnry ofreason to be confident. 
However, in order for the Irish to improve on last 
~cason's 14-14 record, they are going to have to play 
with mul·h more consistency than they have displayed 
in tht• past. Just this season, for instance, Notre Dame 
gave Tennessee, one of the top teams in the country, a 
scare before losing by five at Knoxville, then came 
home to lose to Purdue, a team that was 5-23 last year. 
With Wt·dnt·sday's 76-46 rout of Western Michigan, 
though, it appears that the Irish are beginning to play 
at tht• level at which they were expected. 
As has been the ease with past Notre Dame teams, 
this year's squad is going to rely on tough inside play in 
order to win games. Not only does the team have more 
hdght this year than ever before, hut there is also 
more depth in the forward and center positions than in 
the past. 
The mainstay of the front line is 6-I senior for­ward/center Carrie Bates. lbe Kansas City, Mo., native is third on the all-time Irish scoring list and fourth on the rebound list, averaging I 0.8 points and 5.6 rebounds per game during her first three years. lbis season she is off to the best start of her career, averaging 17.4 points and 6.2 rebounds per game to It-ad the team in both categories. 
"Carrie is a very versatile player," says DiStanislao. "She t·an go to the perimeter and shoot well from outside, hut she is even better inside. She moves very well without the ball and, defensively, her experience really shows. Everybody on the team feels they can count on ht•r for help on defense and rebounding." 
While Bates plays a big role for the Irish on both ends of the court, though, she gets plenty ofhelp from the other front-line players. Junior Trena Keys and freshman Sandy Botham have started all five games this year and, like Bates, have racked up some impressive statistics. Keys, who wa..~ Indiana's "Miss Ba..~ketball" when she played for Marion High, has improved each year and now splits much of the team's scoring burden with Bates. Her I 5.4 scoring average is second on the team to Bate!! and she is also the fourth leading rehounder. 
Botham has been a mild surprise this year. She was expected to contribute to the Notre Dame cause after averagin~o: 20 points and I0.6 rebounds for Madison (Wise.) West High School, hut she has surpassed most people's expectations by contributing 9.8 points and 
4.0 rebounds a game, both good for third-best on the 
team. "Sand)' ha.~ a lot to learn, like any freshman, but she has done a very effective job for us," says DiStanislao. 
"She's continuing to evolve into a fine player." 
Despite the fact that she has spent more time sitting on the bench than she is accustomed to, senior co-captain Mary Beth Schueth has already di~>played that she is a fine player. The 6-0 Indianapolis native is Notre Dame's second-leading all-time scorer and rebounder after starting for her first three years. She has gotten off to a slow start this season, but her 16-point, four-rebound performance in 16 minutes of action against Western Michigan is a sign that she is ready to contribute as much as in the past. 
Sophomore Lavetta Willis combines with Schueth to give the Irish a formidable bench. Although she is averaging barely 1; minutes a game, she is the team's second-leading rebounder, pulling down about five per game. 
Rounding out the front line are sophomore Mickey Skieresz and freshmen Kathy Brommeland and Beth Morrison. Skieresz has proven that she can be an effective rebounder when she gets the chance, while the size ofthe freshmen-Brommeland is 6-4, Morrison 6-5 -allows DiStanislao to match up with any other front line in the nation as far as height. 
"I'm very pleased with our frontcourt, but we won't be able to rely entirely on our strength inside," says the Irish coach. "We have to hurt people from all parts of the court, so our backcourt play is very important_" 
If the first five games have shown anything, it is that 
the Irish guards are going to have to pick up some of 
the scoring burden. Notre Dame is averaging more 
than 65 points as a team, but the backcourt is contribu­
ting only 1 I points to the cause each game. 
"You expect the backcourt to score their share of points," says DiStanislao, "but, more often than not, you just want one kid to take and make open jumpers. In all ca..ses, though, you want the guards to take care of the baiL You don't want them to deprive us ofscoring opportunities by turning the ball over, and you expect them to set people up. 
"We have a number ofpeople capable of doing this, but there are a lot ofkids who weren't doing it in practice, so you can't realistically expect them to do it in a game. I see that changing now, though." 
DiStanislao ha..s tried numerous combinations to find the players who will produce. As a result, only point guard Denise Basford has seen an extended amount of action. That could change in the near future, though, as senior co-captain Laura Dougherty made an impressive pitch for more playing time with her performance against Western Michigan. The 5-10 Hillsdale, N.J., product is Notre Dame's all-time assist leader and ranks fourth on the scoring charts. 
In addition to Basford and Dougherty, there are a number ofother players who should see plenty of action. Senior Ruth Kaiser and junior Lynn Ebben, both of whom can ptay either guard or forward, provide some height and rebounding strength in the back­court, while sophomore Vonnie Thornpson and freshman Kathy Barron can play either point guard or off-guard. 
The player to watch in the future, though, is freshman point guard Mary Gavin, one of the top 1; high school players in the nation last year, according to USA Today. Gavin has been hampered by injuries all 


Hoyas 
continued from page 16 
senior center Alyson Westbrooks, who contributes 9.6 points on 53-percent shooting accuracy and 
4.4 rebounds per game. 
"like <;ur team, Georgetown has three forwards who are shooting really well from the floor," says DiStanislao. "Obviously, they are taking the shots that they are com­fortable with. We have to force their forwards to take shots that they are less comfortable taking. We also have to keep them off the boards." 
Georgetown suffered Wednesday night from the loss of 5-1 l freshman shooting guard Diane Rodriguez, who missed the game with a stress fracture ofher foot. The Hoyas missed her scoring talents ( 11.8 points per game) a..s well as her rebounding ability ( 6.3 rebounds per game) against the Terps. Rodriguez, who can also help out at forward, ha..'i had the foot in a cast and is doubtful for tomorrow night's game. 
Without Rodriguez, the Geor­Irish co-captain Mary Beth Schueth getown bench will be tested for a 
fall, including an off-season knee injury that required surgery and has cut down on her mobility. 


Irish co-captain Laura Dougherty 
"I'm not yet sure what we'll stick to for a starting lineup," admits DiStanislao, "but I have been able to see how well people play in a given situation. What you've got is a team that, in order to be effective, ha..'i to think very hard on its fe~t. but we have pretty good talent that can hurt people in a lot of ways ifit plays up to its potential." 
The Irish are going to have to play to their potential if they are going to accomplish their immediate goal -winning the North Star Conference championship. 
"The conference championship is very important to us," says DiStanislao. "Our goal is to get into the NCAA Tournament and it is highly unlikely that we'll get a bid ifwe do_n't win the conference." 
Loyola won the championship last year in the first year of the NSC's existence, and has to be considered a threat because most of last year's squad is returning. The favorite, however, is Detroit, a program that ha..'i improved dramatically under the leadership ofDeWayne)ones. The Titans, who were pushovers two years ago, have improved so rapidly that they almost beat the No_ 4 team in the country, Long Beach State,last week. 
"Detroit is going to be formidable," says DiStanislao. "They have good talent at all their positions." 
DePaul and Dayton, two familiar Irish opponents, should also have some influence on who wins the title. The remaining conference schools-Butit'r, Evansville and Xavier-still appear to be a year or more away from being competitive. 
"Loyola is going to he a contender, Dayton has a good, solid team, and DePaul will figure into it somewhere," says the Irish coaep. "It's going w be a horse race." 
With so much experience, size and talent, though, the Irish could have a very good chance ofhitting the finish line first. 
second straight game. 'Inc Hoyas had problems Wednesday night against Maryland because no player picked up the scoring slack in Rodriguez' absence. Depth could be a factor for Georgetown in tomor­row night's game, because no player on the Hoya bench has scored more than nine total points all season. 
The Irish, on the other hand, are starting to play like a team with plenty ofdepth. In Wednesday night's rout of Western Michigan, DiStanislao used 14 players, seven of them playing at lea..st I; minutes. '!be most impressive players off the bench were senior co-captains Mary Beth Schueth and Laura Doug­herty. Schueth scored 16 points and grabbed four rebounds in 16 minutes, while Dougherty scored eight points and dished offeight assists while igniting the Irish to an early rally that put them in control of the game. 
DiStanislao has started the same lineup for the past four games, and has not yet decided ifthere will be a change for tomorrow night's game. The probable Irish lineup features Trena Keys (I 5.4 points per game) and Sandy Botham (9-8 points per contest) at the forwards, with 
leading scorer and rebounder 
Carrie Bates ( 17.4 points and 6.2 
rebounds per game) at center. 
Schueth, along with Lavetta Willis, 
will be the first forwards off the 
bench. 
In the backcourt, Dougherty could land a starting spot alongside point guard Denise Ba..sford. Ifnot, Ruth Kaiser will get the nod for the ftfth straight game. Point guard Mary Gavin, who missed Wednes­day's game with a thigh bruise suffered in practice, should be ready to return to action for tomor­row's game. 
Because DiStanislao substitutes frequently, the starting lineup is not her biggest concern. 
"No matter what lineup we put out on the court, I feel that we match up with Georgetown very well," says the Irish coach. "The most important thing is that we execute well, which we have to do in order to keep Georgetown from doing the things that they want to do." 
IRISH ITEMS -Nancy Faust, the official organist for the Chicago White Sox, Bulls, and Sting will perform during tomorrow night's game. 
The Observer Friday, December 7, 1984-page 14 
Muskegon Open Saturday **********************************
* .. 
* ~ Juniper Press presents * ~
Wrestlers face tough competition 
! HORSE DIED! ! 
ByJOE BRUNETI1 "I'd like to see us finish in the up­Open) they didn't adapt too well. Sports Writer per half," remarks McCann. "I don't We would like to see them adapt ~ NEED RIDE TO BOSTON! ! think we have the people to beat better." 
* * 
Notre Dame wrestling coach Fran Indiana State, Central Michigan, and The tournament will give McCann ~ A BOOK OF PAST Observer classifieds ~ McCann will take his squad to the Northern Illinois. I'll be happy if we the opportunity to take his 18 Muskegon Open Saturday in an at· finish fourth. It won't be easy; we're healthiest wrestlers and give them ~ Mail Order delivery: ~ tempt to turn the books on Indiana going against a little stiffer competi­some experience against some good 
* Juniper Press ** 
State, who soundly defeated the tion and we have to get used to that." schools. Irish in last weekend's Indiana St. If there is one thing McCann "It gives a lot ofkids the chance to * 339 O'Shaugnessy Hall * Open. wants to come out ofthis weekend it perform," he says. "I like the tourna­* *
* Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 * 
Unfortunately for the Irish, they will be for his team to adapt to the ment because we'll get a lot of com­will have to contend with more than new system of the wrestling pro­petition and we'll get a lot of * Send 2.95(and.75 postage) per book !* the Sycamores this weekend. The gram. matches in." first-year Irish mentor expects Nor­"I'm looking for improvements The Irish will host the second of ~ THE PERFECT CHRISTMAS BOOK! * thern Illinois and Central Michigan and I want to see them adapt to our their four home dual meets next also to provide a challenge for his new philosophy," says McCann. Wednesday against the Valparaiso young squad. "Last week (at the Indiana State Crusaders in the ACC. 
***********************************,
adding five assists while playing be­Parent will return to center the third tween Steve Whitmore and Dave line withJeffBadalich on right wing
Foresters INTRODUCING 
Waldbillig on the second line. and Pat Foley on the left side. Parent
continuedfrom page 16 

Co-captain Bob Thebeau, who has seen intermittent action since the NEC Advanced Personal split with the Air Force Academy missed the second game against suffering a separated shoulder in the 
Computer Ill
and lost twice to Michigan· Dearborn and both contests with St. season-opening series with Penn Dearborn. Thomas with a shoulder injury, has State. *True 16-bit technology with 128KB RAM Looking to the Irish, head coach returned to the lineup in fine form In the goaltending department, 
* Wordstar Pro. word processing software
Lefty Smith is expecting a good over the last several games. Last Tim Lukenda is listed as Saturday's game after his team's solld perfor­weekend he scored five goals and probable starter. * 2030 Spinwriter letter quality pnnter mance last weekend against dished out four assists. Three of the "Tim played quite well against 
* Cutsheet space guide and Printer cable 
Alabama-Huntsville. goals helped to pace the Irish in Sat· Huntsville," says Smith. "After a 
UNLIMITED TIME OFFER $2495.00
"Lake Forest uses a quick, urday's 8-4 win. shaky performance against European-style so we'll have be dis­Another pleasant surprise for Anchorage, he has done much better Available from: ciplined and play our lanes," says Notre Dame has been sophomore in the last few games." 
Professional Business Management, Inc.
Smith. "They like to rely on the transfer Rich Sobilo. He joined the The Irish will need a good effort movement to free-up people. Hope­Irish this season from St. Mary's Col­from everyone to keep on their win­17903 state road 23 fully with the changes we've made, lege in Winona, Minnesota. Against ning track. But with the hope ofeve­
South Bend 46635 
with everyone healthy and with the Alabama he saw his first Notre Dame ning their record before the tough, 
(219) 277-7723
maturation of our young people, action since undergoing a hernia op­four-game East Coast swing, the pos­we'll continue to play exciting eration early in the season. itive motivation ofall team members 
~**********************************~ 
hockey." "He stepped right in and did a nice should make this task a little easier. 
The most noticeable change that job," says Smith. "His extra maturity Smith was referring to saw Mike as a sophomore really showed. He is McNeill return to his center position a well-disciplined player and a good after five games on defense. McNeill passer." responded by scoring one goal and In another lineup change, Tom 



Lunch ll:OOa.m. to 2:30p.m. Dinner 5:00p.m. Closed 

o·PEN Monday-Wednesday for C-HRISTMAS 
ST. THOMAS UNIVERSITY (formerly Biscayne College) SCHOOL OF LAW MIAMI, FLORIDA 

**Mon.:***Dec. 10 *********~ 
St. Thomas, a new law school, is accepting appllca· 

* * 
tiona for ita second class to begin In August 1985 

The only Catholic law school in the Southeast, St. ! $1 IMPORTS ~ Thomas is ideally located in suburban Miami on a 140 acre campus. The School offers a three·year, full·time program, with small classes, modern computerized 
t**************************~ 
research facilities, and the opportunity for specialized study in a variety of areas, including international law. 
The St. Thomas University School of Law intends to 

**Tues.:***:!December 11*********~ 
seek ABA provisional approval as quickly as possible, which will be after the first year of teaching. 

* * 
For information write or call: Office of Admissions, St.­~ 25c BEERS , ~ Thomas University School of Law, Dept. 0, 16400 N.W. 32nd Ave., Miami, FL 33054. (305) 623·231 0. 
*

'******************************* 
St. Thomas is an equal opportunity institutioro. 025 

t*Wed·************December 12***************~ ~ NEW YEARS EVE REHEARSAL !
~b!~!~~g~~ts~!.~ !!STREAMERS, CONFElTI AND FREE CHAMPAGNE minutes from campus ! 
~ at MIDNIGHTt
·. /\~t~:; :,, 

,... ·--* 
s \********************************************* 
54553 Tma I&, U 23 (across from Marlin's) Haircut, 
shampoo, & blowdry 

MERRY CHRISTMAS and $8.50 HAPPY NEW YEAR 
(hair must be shampooed day ofcut) 

from Senior Bar 
We are only minutes from campus ! 
.,. . .. . ' ~ 
~ -~--­
-~-----~ 

T0 day_____________________
F_ri_d_a._y,_o_e_c_e_m_b_e_r_7_,_1_9_8_4__P._a..g_e_l_5 
Doonesbury 
Garry Trudeau 
C'MCW FOt..Ks,IA£'/?J NfAR­TH/5 15 80RJN6. 

MARK'?IAJHAT5 ~ 
YOU'Re 7l/U<!NG 
"AU THINGS 
MU5T&

lNG THe CNfJ Of TH& HaJR.I 
WRDN6r WHY GO •
7D YOUR IAJINfJ­

YOUR 70
THE 7DPIC 15 /JtfiCJTS/ WHAT au 
AP&ITP&OPlt
SCJ?a3N, LAMB 
MAMA.

ARC YOIJR 7HOU6HT5 r THIS IS AM, AM 
CAWNG!N'? Bet?. 
IMRJfl:rANTI 7HI5155ERJOIJS'i 0/0P.
;
" I 
Tank McNamara 


O!ll~/ F 

I 'f I
8~rd'fJV, I 

Jeff Millar & Bill Hinds 

Campus 
Friday, Dec. 7 
•12 
-5 p.m. -Exposidon ofthe Blessed Sacra­ment, Lady Chapel. 

•4:30 
p.m.-Mathemadcal Colloquium, "Finite Groups as Galois Groups," Prof. John 'Thompson, University of Cambridge, England, Room 226 CCMB. 

• 
5 p.m. -Vigil Celebradon, 'lbe Feast of the Im­maculate Conception, Sacred Heart Church. 

•5-I
0:30p.m. -Sale ofGift Items, Memorial Li­brary Lobby, Sponsored by St. Francis Shoppe. 

•6 
p.m. -AFROTC Dining-In, Century Center. 

•7, 
9:15 & II :30 p.m.-FUm, "'The Empire Strikes Back," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Stu· dent Activities Board, $1.50. 



51 Warning 62 Stevenson 54 Hart character 68 Resist 18 Oily liquid 55 Chan's 64 College board 69 Arose 19 Cha.rges 
exclamation mem. 70 Be without 24 Propnetlc book 56 Current power 
65.AChaplln
71 Kismet 26 Place to keep sheep 27 Ambush
DOWN 1 Biblical verb 2 Aural twin 28 Matterof 3 Kindle course 4 Most recent 29 Wharton 
5 Kind of verb: 
30 Percheron abbr. 
31 Fla. beach 
32 Downs or salts 6 Official robe 36 Item on the 7 Square pillar hoof R Excitement 
9 System of measurement 38 Scrutinized 10 Black bird 40 Boundless 11 Frolic 
41 Proletariat 12 Nile femme 45 Zlmballst fatale 48 Apex 13 Fastener 49 Name In spydom 

ACROSS 1 Roughly shaped 5 Biblical hamlet 9 Sousa work 
14 Yearn 
15 Gambling town 16-Gay 17 " ...It was-" 
("A Tale of 
Two Cities") 20 Lodgings 21 Diminish 22 Kind of music 
23 Juncture 25 Ericsson 27 What the 
walrus said 33 Energy unit 34 Double 
negative? 35 Facial feature 
37 Anne Nichols hero 39 Flay 
42 Telegraphic 
signal 43 Commiseration 44 Snicker­46 Bovine bellow 47 "Procrastlna· 
tlon Is-" 
52 He discovered the Cape of Good Hope 
53 Cross lnscrlp· 
lion 54 Toothed tool 57 Shellfish 59 Important age 
63 "Remember-" 
(Franklin) 66 Houston player 67 Pretentious 



o~~&-u 
__ c)Q~~ 
HAPPY HOUR 9:00·11:06 
1/2 PRICED MIXED DRINKS ~&T's 75 ~ 11:00-2:00 

A \O)~ffi ' Comtng up••.• ~ l.EY ........ \J New Year's Eve Rehearsal Party! 
Wed., Dec. 12 FREE CHAMPAGNE AT MIDNIGHT 
F 
25~ BEERS 

( (2 
c:J~riJfl~~ 

12/7/84 
.. 




------------------~--~----­
Friday, December 7, 1984-page 16 
Unbeaten Irish face No. 2-ranked Blue Demons 



N D women look to get back in good groove 
Georgetown visits ACC tomorrow as Irish try to even record after poor start 
By LARRY BURKE 
Sports Writer 

After Wednesday night's 76-4{:! home victory over Western Mic­higan, Notre Dame women's bas­ketball coach Mary DiStanislao said her squad was on the road to improvement. The 2-3 Irish will try to stay on that road tomorrow afternoon as they take on the Hoyas ofGeorgetown in a 2 p.m. clash at the ACC. 
The Hoyas, under second-year coach Cheryl Thompson, come into the game at 2-3, their most recent outing being a 63-40 loss to Maryland Wednesday night. That game was Georgetown's worst outing of the season, as it turned the ball over eight ofits first I I possessions to fall behind early. 
Aside from that game, the Hoyas have stayed close in every game, losing their first two games to Richmond, 87-86, and East Ten­nessee, 68-66, before bouncing back to beat Florida State, 77-69, and Towson State, 75-62. 
Notre Dame's last defeat came at the hands ofa Michigan squad that shot a scorching 74 percent in the second half, a performance that the sharp-shooting Hoyas can certainly match. Georgetown cooled off Wednesday night against the Terrapins, hitting on only two ofits first I8 shots from the field, but the Hoyas are still shooting close to 50 percent for the season, while holding their opponents to less than 40 percent. 
Extra -page 12, 13 
Much like Notre Dame, Geor­getown's biggest problem has been on the boards, where it has been outrcbounded by its oppo­nents by an average margin of 45-34. 
"Georgetown is a very im· proved team," says DiStanislao. "There was a coaching change two years ago and, with that change, there was a change in the commitment toward the program. 
"They are an excellent shooting team. They're still shooting 49 percent from the field despite scoring just 40 points against 
Maryland Wednesday night." 
The Hoyas have a balanced scoring attack, with six players averaging better than eight points a game. Leading the way is 5-5 senior guard Maura Gill, with an average of 14 points per game. Starting alongside Gill in the Hoya backcourt will be 5·1 0 junior jenny Bendell, who contributes 
8.6 points per contest. 
The leading scorer on the Hoyas' front line is 6-0 freshman forward Beth Knight, who is averaging 13.8 points per game and hitting 61 percent of her shots from the field. Knight is also Geor­getown's leading rebounder, averaging seven boards per game. At the other forward spot, the Hoyas start 6-0 sophomore Ann Gothard, who averages 8.2 points on 57-percent shooting, and 6.6 rebounds per contest. Completing the starting frontcourt is 6-1 
see HOYAS, page 13 
Kempton ready for action in Rosemont Horizon contest 
By MARC RAMIREZ last year, and coming into this Sports Writer season had been named as an All­
America candidate by almost every Paint, ifyou will, a picture. publication. In the picture you are playing At the other forward position 
away from the familiar confines of Meyer has big Kevin Holmes, who home, in a place called the has started at the power role since Rosemont Horizon, your opponent's his freshman season. Holmes back yard, where you are sur­finished third in both scoring and rounded by almost 18,000 scream­rebounding for DePaul last year, but ing fans. has been struggling so far this 
You are playing the DePaul Blue season, shooting only 43 percent Demons, 4-0 and the No. 2-ranked while averaging only 8.0 points in basketball team in the country. four games. At 6-8 and 220 pounds, 
You haven't beaten the Blue however, Holmes is a solid force in Demons since 1980. And only three the frontcourt. out of 68 teams have ever managed At the center spot is 6-8 junior to escape with a win after facing Marty Embry, who is the Blue DePaul in the Horizon. Demons' leading scorer with I2.8 
You might think that Notre Dame points a game. Embry had I3 points Head Coach Digger Phelps, who and II boards in DePaul's 80-61 takes the 4-0 Irish into exactly that rout ofUCLA last weekend. The 240­situation tomorrow, would be just a 
pound center is hitting 54 percent little intimidated. Think again. from the field so far, and leads "There's no pressure on us," says DePaul in rebounding with 7.5 per Phelps. "We're pretty good in these contest. situations, especially on the road. Nobody expects us to win on the But a team cannot live on for­outside. But on the inside, we as wards alone, and the Blue Demon coaches and players know what we backcourt provides the quickness to cando. go along with the strength of the "It should be a typical DePaul­front line. At the off-guard position is Notre Dame game." junior Tony jackson, the newest ad­DePaul is typical DePaul, and dition to the starting lineup. jackson that's one of the reasons they're replaces the graduated jerry McMil­ranked second in the nation. Take lan at the big guard spot, but he isn't the same team that finished 27-3last without experience · he started in season under Coach Ray Meyer, list 20 games his freshman year, and the top eight scorers, cross out num­came off the bench in all 30 games ber four, name a new coach, and last year, averaging over eight points you've got this year's Blue Demons. a game both seasons. And even new Head Coach joey Meyer, son of Ray, is no stranger to Senior Kenny Patterson will be DePaul, having been his father's top only the third player in the school's assistant for the last 1 l years. history to start all four seasons (the The inheritance paid off big for other two being George Mikan and the younger Meyer. First, there's big Dave Corzine), and deservedly so. In senior Tyrone Corbin, who is one of his first three years, the 6-2 guard the country's best small forwards. has led the team in both assists and Corbin, at 6-6 and 210 pounds, led steals, and already has 23 and 13 of the Blue Demons in both scoring 
( 
14.1 ppg) and rebounding (7.4) see DEPAUL page 10 

.­

The Notre Dame men's basketball team will once missed Tuesday's Indiana game with an ankle in­
again have the services of junior center Tim jury, and will not join guard David Rivers (4) in Kempton ( 41) when it takes the court against the the starting lineup for tomorrow's game. Marc Blue Demons of DePaul tomorrow and the Ramirezpreviews this weekend's action at left. 
__c_rus__a_d_er._s_(_if_v._a_l_'P_a_,.,_a_is_o.,.-o_n__s_u_n_d_a_y_._x_em_'P_t_o_n________________________ 
Trying to reach .500 mark 
Hockey team takes on Lake Forest 
By ED DOMANSKY meetings in I984-85. The Irish and return I 5 lettermen from that '83· Sports Writer the Foresters will face off again at '84 squad which finished with a 14­Notre Dame on jan. 23. 'The two 11·1 mark. 
The Notre Dame hockey team was teams may also meet in the Forester So far this season, Lake Forest is I5-0 in non-league play when it Classic Tournament the weekend of 6-3. Its most recent victory came travelled to Lake Forest on January Jan. I8·19 at Lake Forest. Tuesday night with a 6-5 triumph 25 of last season for the third Saturday, the 5-6 Irish will be over Marquette. Last weekend while meeting between the two teams. seeking their fourth-straight victory. the Irish were sweeping Alabama­When the Irish left, however, they The contest will also give them a Huntsville, the Foresters were also were I 5-I. The Foresters had beaten chance to improve their record to in the process of taking a pair ofvic­them 9-6. the .500 mark before venturing to tories from the University of 
That Lake Forest victory may have the East Coast over the Christmas Wisconsin-Superior. Lake Forest ended the longest consecutive holidays. As an added attraction, blanked their guests from Wisconsin Notre Dame win-streak, but the Irish Nancy Faust the organist for the 5-0 the first night and took a 4-3 still managed to win three ofthe four Chicago White Sox, Bulls and Sting overtime decision on Saturday. encounters between the schools will provide the entertainment Against common opponents, the during the season. during the game. Foresters and Irish are each 1-3. just 
Saturday night at 7:30 at the ACC, The Foresters finished last season like Notre Dame, Lake Forest has the two teams will meet once again ranked fifth in the NCAA Division III see FORESTERS page 14 
in the first of two regular season West Region. In addition, they 
Th~ Observcr/Chaitanya Panchal 





