SMC endorsement-page 6 

VOL XVIII, NO. 83 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1984
tht· im.kpenJent student newspaper '>tT\·ing notn dame and .-.aint mary'-. 

dents migrate to climates warmer than South Bend's such as Fort Lauderdale and Daytona Beach, Fla. The sun and surfthere provide recreation for vacationing studentsfrom all over the country. 
Room lottery next week at SMC 
By CAROLYN GILLESPIE 
News Staff 
The room lottery for Saint Mary's students who are planning to live on campus next semester will take place nt.xt week. The procedure will not differ dramatically from last year's lottery even though freshmen will now be allowed to live in all but one of the dorms, according to the College's Director of Resident Life and Housing Pat Rissmeyer. 
"There are only a few changes involving the blocking of certain rooms and hopefully this entire sys­tem will be computerized by next year,"' Rissmeyer said. 
But there is still speculation as to the effect Regina Hall's desegrega­tion will have on this year's lottery. Regina Hall next year will have soph­omore as well as freshman residents. The hall presently houses exclusive­ly freshmen. Next year, freshmen will also be h t oused in all ofthe other dormitories except Augusta Hall. 
The lottery is a simple procedure. 
However, because of the number of people involved and the desire to get a good pick, it often results in chaos. 
Saint Mary's students will report to their designated areas in LeMans Hall at 6:30 p.m., Thursday, Feb. 16. After the customary wait in line, they will pick a number from the of­ficial "Housing Box." You are re­quired to bring your student f.D. 
The lottery completed, the actual room selection will then take place Monday, Feb. 20, for juniors, Tues­day, Feb. 21, for sophomores, Wed­nesday, Feb. 22, for freshmen with lottery numbers 1-200, and Thursday, Feb. 23, for the remaining freshmen. 
Everyone must have their I.D., lot­tery slip number and room deposit receipt. 
There will be floor plans for each 
dorm with rooms that are already 
taken clearly marked. This is the on­
ly major change involved in the lot­
tery. Prior to allowing anyone to 
make their selection, certain rooms 
SMC votes tomorrow 
By PAM RICHARDSON 
StaffReporter 
The Saint Mary's class of 1986 will choose between two class officer tickets running in the elections being held tomorrow at the Haggar Center. 
Julie Harmon, president; Janet Biegel, vice preident; Suzy Welsh, secretary; and Beth Steber, treasurer. comprise the first ticket. Harmon commented, "Junior yedr can be a very memorable year." They are stressing class unity; academically, socially, and spiritual­·y. Harmon emphasized that they want to have quality events and not just a lot ofthem. Some oftheir ideas include horseback outings, a spring trip to the dunes, and prayer services. 
The second ticket consists of Mary Beth Lavezzorio, president; Linda Cascio, vice president; Chris Jack, secretary; and Bethany Hoke, treasurer. Lavezzorio commented that the class has great potential but the problem in the past has been communication. They feel they can 
SMC 
Campaign 
'84 
unify the class. Lavezzorio pointed out, "we want everyone involved, not just a select few." Some activities they want to include as juniors are a Junior Welcome Back Week, a river float, and class barbeques. 
will have already been put on reserve, or blocked, for the incom­ing freshmen next fall. Rooms have already been blocked in LeMtns, Ho­ly Cross, McCandles, and Regina, with the fewest being in LeMans and the most in Reitna. 
The only hall which will not house freshmen is Augusta. This hall will remain open only to juniors and seniors, not just twenty-one year olds as it had been in the past. The lottery for Augusta will take place on Monday, Feb. 13, 'with room selec­tion on Tuesday, Feb. 14. 
Other changes caused by the new desegregation are that approximate-
see LOTTERY page 3 
Candidates for Senate disagree on alcohol, agree on finals policy 
By BARBARA HARDIN 
News Staff 
The two opponents for the Dis­trict 1 Senate seat hold differing opinions about the admin.istration's proposal to ban alcohol from campus. 
St. Ed's junior Paul Healy states there definitely should not be a dry campus. "Students at the lhiversity of Notre Dame should be respon­sible," he says. "The University shouldn't have to hold the hands"' of students and make their decision for them not to drink, he continues. 
Freshman Doug Wurth states, "there is not enough information" to take a position now. He says he hopes, however, that the student body will make the necessary adjust­ments whatever the decision is and that the decision will not defer from the social aspects already present on campus. 
With regards to the proposed final exam policy change, Healy asserts his feelings that "after four years seniors deserve to and should be ex­empt" from exams. 
As a member of the Special Com­mittee for Academic Affairs, Wurth is an opponent ofa final exam policy change also, protesting specifically the proposal that exams will com­prise one-half to two-thirds of the final grade. 
Service to the students is a primary concern for both Wurth and Healy in their campaigns, which will culminate in the election next Tues­day. Both candidates agree that availability and responsibility are important in serving their district. 
Healy has served on a wide range of committees this year, including the Student Senate COmmittee for Teacher's Evaluations, the Student Transfer Committee and the Mardi Gras Committee. 
A government/ALPA major, he says he would work hard to provide 
ByJAMESJANSEN 
News Staff 
Best-selling author Fran Lebowitz opened her humorous talk last night at Saint Mary's College by saying, "after being expelled from high school! decided to pass up both college and medical school." 
Some of her targets included adolescence, algebra, smoking, and household pets. The talk included anecdotes from her latest book and a question and answer session with an enthusiastic audience. 
Speaking about adolescence she said, "there is much misery in it, you go through 12 straight years of cute­ness and now you are a big fat girl or a boy who is short." In regard to algebra she noted, "in real life there is no such thing as algebra" while later noting, "football in her eyes is algebra in motion." "Smoking if not my life, it's my hobby. It makes growing up more worthwhile." She also said, "smoking is hazardous, 
dangerous, it leads to a fatal disease but at 

they don't brag about it in the end." 
"In some hospitals smoking is banned, why? Everybody there is already sick. Smoking is part ofbeing in public. The public is putting up with people's bad habits." 
Some of her favorite anecdotes dealt with people themselves. Lebowitz observed, "today the average Joe is now like the average Jennifer, in more ways then one." 
In regard to people's careers Lebowitz advised law school. "Then can take ~p.~~ 1 P'< money like mine the students with what they want to see happen. A native of Daytona Beach, Fla., he is sponsoring a spring break trip there this year which he claims is $100 cheaper than the Stu­dent lhion sponsored trip to Fort Lauderdale. 
Wurth is President of the Fresh­man Advisory Council, a position which earns him a place on the Stu­dent Senate this year. 
Being a member of the senate, Wurth said he is "aware ofthe issues faced this year"' as well as ones upcoming; thus, if elected senator, he will already be well-informed. 
An economics major, Wurth has this year instigated a nursing home visitation program for his class in 
ND 
Campaign 
'84 
which there are approximately 100 freshmen participants. 
Wurth would like to involve his district in more service pro.jects and improve some of the already exist­ing ones himself. 
The expansion of social space b something Wurth would like to help coordinate. He would like to see LaFortune Student ti:nter renovated and the environment changed from a study area to one of student social interaction. He sug­gests transporting the television to the main area of Lafortune. 
He would also like to establish a 
"dorm olympics" within-his district 
and he would like to get a student or 
recent graduate on the board oftrus­
tees. 
Wurth feels that too often 
senators complain of lack of power 
when they actually "fail to realize 
where the power is." 
Lebowitz leaves crowd entertained 
without even being funny." She then went on to that her lawyer charges over $200 per hour and has time clock as proof 
Concluding the informal talk Lebowitz opened it to questions from the audience. In response to a tion about her childhood, "I liked it but my didn't. I've spent my entire adulthood trying to get to that state." 
When questioned about President Reagan she said, " wouldn't use think an_d Reagan in the same sen You can't hate him though, he looks so much Howdy Doody." 
The Observer Wednesday_, February 8, 1984 -page 2 
In Brief 
The restructuring ofStudentUnionwas 
discussed in a private meeting between Student Union commis­sioners and Joni Neal, assistant director of Student Activities, last night. A comprehensive proposal calling for the reorganization of the current art, social, academic, publicity, business and service commissions was presented to the Student Senate on Monday. Neal, the author of the proposal, could not be reached for comment. The proposal will be discussed at a meeting ofthe Student Union Steering Committee today at 3:30 p.m. in the Student Union office. -The 
Obsen•er 

The execution ofa man sentenced to death for killing a ll.S. Army chaplain shoveling his walk was halted Tuesday by a Marion County, Indiana, Criminal Court judge. Michael Daniels, 2<;, was scheduled to be executed Monday in the electric chair at the Indiana State Prison. Judge Patricia Gifford granted a defense motion ti.1r a stay after a motion for post-conviction relief was filed. The judgt· also granted a defense motion for a change ofjudge and named three judges, one of whom will be selected to hear the post­conviction relief. Daniels was sentenced to death by electrocution hy Gifti.1rd earlier for the Jan. 16, 1978 shooting death of Maj. Allen Streett. Stret·t was shot while shoveling snow during a robbery that authorities said nt·tled Daniels $1. -AP 
Most bars and liquor stores would be 
prohibited from selling alcoholic beverages to anyone under 21 un­tkr a hill which has passed the House Energy and Commerce Com­millt•t· yestnday. The bill uses the federal power to regulate intt·rstate commt·rce to forbid an establishment which sells anything madt· in another state from selling alcohol to those under age. Presently 51 statt·s have drinking ages lower than 21. The bill would not alkct those bars and liquor stores which serve liquor made in the same state. During hearings on the idea, the Reagan administra­tion oppost·d tht· hill. The White House prefers that states deal with tlu· drinking agt·. A similar measure has been introduced in the Senatt·, but no hearings have been held. -AP 
To protest predicted tuition increases, stu­
dt·nrs at the llniversity of Pennsylvania wore red clothing to symbolize the personal financial problems digging deeper into their pO<:kethooks would cause. Members of Halt Increased Tuition col­tn·ted 1500 signatures on a protest scroll. HIT claims the present budget contains a large surplus which could be used to avoid tuition increases. -The Obseroer 
Of Interest 
Father David Pelton. director of the Institute of Clergy Education will speak tonight at 7:30 on his recent toyr of <xntral and Latin America. The talk, sponsored by Amnesty Interna­tional and tht· Student Organization of Latin America, will take place in the coft"ct· house of the Center for Social Concerns. -The Oh­
sert'er 

Reggae music and Ganja smokingwill be 
dbcussed at tht·llrst meeting of the Natty Dread Club tonight at8 in LaFortune's Lillk Theatre. The Natty Dread Club is part of the Ras­tal;trian mo\Tment: a black nationalism movement started in Jamaica which wor~hips I !aile Sdassie and centers around Reggae music and smoking marijuana. -The Ohsen•er 
The prospect offounding a Women's lnt~rna­
tional Lt·agut· for Peace and Freedom group at Notre Dame will he the iopic ofa mtTting tonight at 7 in Room 2 of the Center for Social ContTrns. Tht· WILPI' was founded nationally in 191 '5 by Jane Ad­dams, the tlrst woman to recdvt· the Nobel Peace Prize. The group strives ti1r peace and freedom in the world and explores alternatives 10 war and oppression. -Tbe Ohsen,er 

Weather 

Mostly sunny and cold with high in the mid 2os today. Mostly dear and not as cold tonight. Low in the upper teens. Fair anti warmer tomorrow. High in the mid 30s. -The Obsen,er 

The Observer (liSPS W9 l-4000) is puhllshell Monuay through l'riuay anu on hom<..· foochall Saturdays, c.:xn:pl during t.•xam and vat:ation pc:riods. The Observer i.!'l puhlisht:d hy the: student!'~ of the llniv<·rsity of Notre Dame ami Saint Mary's College ~ubs..-riplions my he purdlast·u for Jl~ per year ( s I~ per s<·m<·ster) by writing The Observer, P.O.IIox Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46~~6. 
The Observer is a member ofThe As­sociated Press. All reprodu<·tion rights arc reserved. 
Today's issut· was produced by: 
Production Consultant ........Steve foster Design Editor......................... Susan O'Hara Design Assistant......................... Liz Carroll Typesetters .......... Michelle Fanto,Jennifer 
lligolt News Editor..................... Dan McCullough Copy Editor.... Kevin !linger, john lleasly Sports Copy Editor....................... Phil Wolf Vieu-point Layout....................... Tom Sapp Features Copy Editor.............jerry Young Features La}•out.. ...................... Mary Healy Photographer .......................... Paul Kramer Resident lmsomniac........ Kevin Wlltiams 

Ray Kroc and his Big Mac dream 
Dinner at Notre Dame is a 4:30 phenomenon, and if those Ivy Award winners ever began serving supper at 3, people probably would start lining up at 2:50 just to beat the crowds. 
Ray Kroc never won an Ivy Award, but that didn't stop the high school dropout from realizing that people hate waiting. And before Kroc died last month, he had turned his dream of quick food into an 58 billion busi­ness known as McDonald's. 
His death was honored with little more than an obituary on the inside pages oflocal newspapers, which some McDonald's managers tore out to hang next to the french-fry machine. 
But Kroc's impact on American dining deserves much more attention. Perhaps more than any one per­son, Kroc changed what America -and much of the world -considers good qualities in restauranteering. With the golden arches boasting 45 billion served, theoretically every person in the world has eaten at McDonald's at least 10 times. 
Kroc's empire began in 
Bob Vonderheide 
News Editor 
Inside Wednesday 
textures and colors in a butterfly's wing?" 
Kroc promised clean, quality service at maximum speed. His restaurants would have no waitresses, and customers would have to stand to get their food. 
(Drive-through  windows  were  not  part  of Kroc's  
original  dream.)  There  were  no  pay-phones  or  
cigarette-machines  in  the  first  McDonald's  to  dis­ 

courage teenagers from hanging out. Before anyone was able to buy a McDonald's store or 
become manager of a company-owned outlet, the per­son had to graduate from Kroc's Hamburger Univer­sity in Elk Grove, Ill. A cor­
19 3 7 when he obtained the porate manual spelled out 
exclusive rights to the just how long to cook french Prince Castle Multimixer, a fries and when to flip a contraption that could make cheeseburger. The basic up to six milk shakes at the recipe was cleanliness and same time. speed; the goal was quality. 
Seventeen years later, It is a hit ofa chicken-and­Richard and Maurice egg proposition whether McDonald of San Bernar­Kroc forced us into the fast­dino, Calif. -operators of a food culture, or whether the clean, well-lit place, topped age was ripe for hamburgers with golden arches -or­cooked before they're or­dered eight Prince Castles to dered. But one thing is for serve the "hundreds of sure: either good or bad, Ray people clamoring for ham­Kroc helped speed up the 

burgers and milk shakes." 
Kroc persuaded the brothers to let him mer­chandise their operation nationwide, and on April I<;, 
1955, Des Plaines, Ill., became host to the first of what would become one of 7,500 McDonald's in 32 nations. In 1961, Kroc bought out the brothers' interest for $2.7 million, borrowing the money at interest rates that eventually cost him Sl4 million. 
McDonald's became a staple of American life in the 1970s, promising the so-called Me Generation that at least one restaurant did it all for you. Fast food had become a way of life; "slow" food in sit-down diners that sported jukeboxes had gone the way of the dinosaur. 
Kroc was successful because he saw McDonald's as a rare art form. 
"It requires a certain kind of mind to see beauty in a hamburger bun," Kroc writes in his autobiography, Grinding It Out. "Yet is it any more unusual to find grace in the texture and softly curved silhouette of a bun than to reflect lovingly on the arrangement of 
IIIHIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIHIII...II 
Buy 
Observer ValentinesI 

...................................."........... 
American metabolism. 
We have a become a na­

tion that is losing its patience for life. We devour fast food; we despise long bank lines. Traffic jams, long homilies and slow-down basketball all give us headaches. And now President Reagan is seeking more time from a country that measures political achievement with a four-year yardstick. 
With the death of Kroc, America has proven Shakespeare right: brevity is the soul of wit. One can only wonder how long America will continue to be this funny, and how long it will insist on starting one thing before it finishes another. 
The views expressed in the Inside column
., 

are the views of the author, and do not neces­su-ily refle<;t the views of the editorial board or staff. 

enjoy our view of the new downtown! 
Reservations Appreciated 234-9000 121 South Niles South Bend 


"Whenever you feel like smokin" a cigarette. instead of strikin·up a match, strike up the band-the' Larry Hagman Special Stop Smokin ·Wrist Snappin" Red Rubber Band: Get one free from your American Cancer So~iety."" 

The Observer 
Glenn switches Lebanon position just in tiiDe for Marines' pullout 
Associated Press 
Sen. John Glenn switched posi­tions yesterday and called for the im­mediate withdrawal of U.S. Marines from Lebanon and Sen. Gary Hart at­tacked Walter F. Mondale for taking "too long" to make up his mind on important foreign policy questions. 
Both Democratic presidential candidates made their statements shortly before President Reagan an­nounced the Marines were being taken to safety on U.S. Navy ships off the coast of Beirut. 
Hart saitl Mondale was "one ofthe very last public figures in our party to oppose" the Vietnam War, and atlded that more recently, he has outlined a series of Carter ad­ministration actions he disagreed with privately. 
Mondale, vice president under 
Morton Fuchs, biology professor, appointed department chairman 
Wednesday, February 8, 1984 -page 3 
ii:llo"" 
.w 
The Obst:rvt"r/Paul Kramer

Walking across the lake 
Sophomore Don Vecellio walks across a frozen St. Mary's fake on his way back to Ho(y Cross Hall. Although the administration does not condone the use of the lake as a shortcut, many Holy Cross. residents make thejourney anyway, as the well-wo,.,; path"u•ay at­tests. 

Carter, came under attack earlier in the campaign for taking too long to state a position on the American in­vasion of Grenada, and for his posi­tion on the Marine force in Beirut. He called late last year for Reagan to withdraw the Marines. 
Hart attacked the Democratic front-runner while campaigning in Council Bluffs, Iowa. 
Glenn was in Concord, N.H., when he announced he was switch­ing positions on Lebanon and demanded that Reagan withdraw the troops "immediately." 
Glenn said Lebanon is a country in 
the midst ofa civil war, and "there is 
little to be accomplished by our co-n­
tinued presence and a great deal to 
be lost." 
Jesse Jackson, meanwhile, courted votes in Selma, Ala., where "freedom songs" rang out a genera-
As head of both departments, Fuchs sees a merger as a possibility. "One of the reasons I was ap­
pointed," said Fuchs, "is to explore the possibility ofa merger." He said a merger will allow both departments to "utilize their human resources more efficiently." However, he also noted that curricular difficulties might develop and that he would not recommend a merger unless both t departments assented. 
Fuchs praised the work of both 
departments, such as insect biology 
in conjunction with the Vector Bioi­

tion ago in the struggle for greater voting rights for blacks. 
"Because of the courage of the people of Selma, America and the world will never be the same again," Jackson said at a breakfast rally replete with chants and songs evoking the days of voting rights protests. 
Another Democratic presidential 
candidate, Sen. Ernest "Fritz" Hol­
lings of South Carolina, opened his 
Alabama state headquarters in 
Wetumpka, an Elmore County city 
that has a traditio,n of picking win­
ners on Election Day. 
"Past elections have shown that the state of Alabama goes the way Elmore County goes, particularly Beat Fourteen," said Hollings. "I am taking my message to the people of Alabama -they are the ones that make the ultimate decision 
ogy Laboratory, aquatic ecology, and parasitology. 
Upcoming improvement can be found in what Fuchs said is a new animal housing facility. Construc­tion on this facility begins in March. 
Fuchs replaces Dr. Theodore Crovello who ends his third three year term in August. Dr. Crovello will remain as a professor in the department. 
By BUD LUEPKE 
News Staff 
Dr. Morton Fuchs, biology profes­sor and chairman of the Department ofMicrobiology, has been appointed chairman of the Department ofBiol­ogy. 
Dr. Fuchs graduated from Michi­gan State University where he received a bachelor's degree in microbiology, a master's degree in zoology and a Ph.D. in biochemistry. He studied genetics for three years at the l.hiversity of msconsin at Madison. 
He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1966 and was appointed microbiology chairman in 1981. 
In 1969, Fuchs and Dr. George Craig, who is now director of the Vector Biology Laboratory, were awarded a patent for research reading to the purification of Matrone, a hormone derived from 
male  mosquitoes  and  capable  of  
~terilizir.g female mosquitoes.  
Currently,  Fuchs'  research  is  

directed toward molecular biology. 
Effective this August, the appoint­ment will place Fuchs in charge of two departments, both Microbiol­ogy and Biology. Each department will be administered independently. "The main difficulty," said Fuchs, "is physical. Obviously, I can't be in two places at the same time." As a result, Fuchs plans to delegate more responsibility. 
Oops! 
We've done it again! 
Because of an error in our reporting, an incorrect date was given for the performance of the Second City, the Chicago and Toronto based satirical comedy group which will perform at Saint Mary's next week. 
In yesterday's paper we reported the group would be at th~ College on Feb. 18, at 8 p.m. The group will be at the College on Feb. 1 7, at 8 p.m. 
The group will perform in the O'Laughlin auditorium. We regret any inconvenience this error may have caused. 


By FRANK LIPO 
News Staff 
A new lecture series to be con­ducted by nationally renowned theologian Martin E. Marty will begin tomorrow night in the library auditorium. 
Martin E. Marty, "perhaps the most preeminent authority on religion in the United States," is coming to Notre Dame to launch a new lecture series on religion and public life, said Professor Jay Dolan, director of the Cushwa Center for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism. 
Marty's lecture, "Public, Political and Private Faith: Options for America" will be given tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the library auditorium. 
Marty is a Lutheran minister with a national reputation as an ecumenist and historian of American religion. He is the author of several books, one of which, Righteous Empire won the National Book Award in 1972. 
He is presently the Fairfa.x M. Cone Distinguished Service Profes­_sor of the History of Modern Chris­
tianity at the University of Chicago, 
where he earned his Ph.d in 1956. 
He is also working on a four volume 
history entitled Modern American Religion. 
Dolan said the m:w lecture series will examine the role of religion in public life. It will consist of ap­proximately one lecture a year. He said that Marty, "a recognized, na­tionally known scholar and lec­turer," will open the series by examining the public and political issues of our society, such as 
ND/SMC Students 


PARTY 
Spring Break in Daytona Beach 
INCLUDES 

*Round trip motor coach transportation to beautiful Daytona Beach. Florida. 
•
FREE refreshments on the way down (the party starts here J 

•
8Fiorida days/7 endless nights at one of our exciting oceanfront hotels, located nght on the strip. 

•
A full schedule of FREE pool deck parties every day. 

•
A full list of pre-arranged discounts to save you money 


in Daytona Beach. . *Travel representatives to insure a smooth trip and a good time. 
*Optional side excursions to Disney World, Epcot, deep sea fishing, etc. 
•All taxes and tips. .=I 
.J YOU CANNOT FIND A BETIER DEAL OR A BETIER TIME OVER SPRING BREAK 
Theologian begins lecture series 

For further informa.t1.0f'LOOQ-sf9Jr\ up THE BEST DEAL TO DAYTONA BEACH Call Paul at 283-4358 

S195 

poverty, unemployment and nuclear weaponry. He will relate these issues to American private faith. Marty will also examine American religious trends in both public and private life. He will dis­cuss the religious options we possess as Americans in our public, political and private lives. Marty will also look at purely private and in­dividual religion versus religion in the sphere of public life. 
The lecture is ope11 to the public and admission is free. A reception with Marty will follow the lecture. 
Lottery 
continuedfrom page I 
ly 163 freshmen will end up back in Regina next year, and approximately '0 more juniors will be living in McCan dies. 
The group affected the most by the changes is that of the present freshmen class. According to Ris­smeyer,"there may be certain op­tions open to those who do get put back into Regina to compensate for getting a rather bad room pick, but nothing can be promised." There have been rumors ofpeople wanting to build lofts, however, this has not 
.,. been discussed yet. 
In addition to blocking rooms for the incoming freshmen, rooms are also being reserved f{lr sophomores in LeMans and Holy Cross. The blocking of rooms will limit the op­tions open to the class of '87 and class of'86, however the class of'8S will not be affected. Many freshmen have apparently resigned them­selves to the fact that they may end up living in Regina again. It seems that the new policies and ideas being brought forth that were so shocking at first, have now settled. 
Notre Dame traditionally waits until later in the semester to con­duct their room selection process. 
Saint Mary's has had a lottery for the past few years to decide which students will be allowed to live on campus and which will he forced to live offcampus. 
------------------------------------__j 
The Observer 
Lent offers SMC a chance to fast 
Hy KEITH E. HARRISON 
\'Jaft-R<'/)(Jr/er 
Many Saint M.tf)··~ student~ will 
~kip lunch utKt' a wn:k li>r the six 
V.'t'l'k~ of Lent this year a~ part of 
Saint Mary's World llungt·r Coali­
tion·~ Wnlnt·,day Luncheon Fast. 
"\X t· don't t·at lunch on W t·dnt·s· days during '"'"'Ill." said };IU.JUt' Mduch, ht·ad coordinator of the group. "Thcn Saga Food St:rvkes donates a ccrtain amount of mont')' li11· cach person participating in the t:tst." 
Thb is tht· second year for the \X'cdncsday Luncheon Fast. "Last }'l'ar. we Wt'ft' able to raise S1,000, and we hope 10 top that this year," said Mduch. 
Although h>rmal pnmission and specitlr.: dollar t1gures have yet to he announced by the timd service, the hunger coalition has announn·d sign-up days for the fast. Rcgistration for tlw fast will take place Monday, Feb. 27, through Wednesday, Feb. 2'-) in the cafeteria. 
Lenten Fast coordinator Rosie \ 

Drake: said, "last year we sent money to a Bangladesh hunger collection. tht· Emerg~:ncy He·lief Fund in South Bend. and st·vcral projects sponsornl by the Sisters of the Holy Cross." The allotmt:·nt of this year's funds will be tkcided after Easter. ac<:ording to Drake. 
The Wednesday Luncheon Fast is th<· second major project of the ve·ar for the Saint Mary's World llu~ger Coalition. Last November tht·y sponsored Saint Ma11·'s participation in the International Oxfam Fast. 
Defois lectures to study religion 
ByJOHN NEBLO 
StaffRefmrter 
''We need to build a strategy for peace togetht·r," concludnl Father <ierard Dcfi>is in his kcturc "Peace Movcmt·nts ami l!. S. Nuclear Policy in Europe." 
Dcfois, proft-s1>or t of sociology at the lnstitutl' Catholiquc de Paris, W<l!o one oftht· main authors of the of tht· French llbhop's rt·n·nt tkdara­tion on nuclear war and disarma­mt·nt. 
Acconling 10 Ddob, the pt·ace movt·mt·nt t·annot he examined ac­curately outside the context of the ,,odo·tTonomJc t·mulition1> in whit·h it was horn. Ik maintainnl that Europt· has undl'fgone a series of crist·s which have kft the European communities dispirited and confused. lkli>is stated that the economic recession of the 19HO's had a particularly scvt·re affect on a l\uropt·an society which had comt· to identify itself with economic prosperity. 
In addition, Europt· faces every day tlw reality ofa huge Soviet army jusrmilt·s away. An:ording to Dcfois, tht• immenencc of the Soviet threat puts East-West t·onllkt in a different per~pective li>r Europeans. Thq• fed that. Soviet-American relations determint· thl'ir fate, and that tht·y have no control over tht· decisions 
LIBRARY ASSISTANCE 

Tlwr<''s frt•e lax help at most local llhrar!t•s inl'luding audio I apt·s to 1ake vou slt•p-bv-step I!trough comiih-tlon ol your lax rt:'tttrn. a rderrnn· set oft lw IHS I rt't' pttb· lll'i.ll ion st'ril's. urHI n•prolltH'ible 

A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 
SCHOLASTIC is acceptin~ applications for the position of EdltQr·ln· Chief. Call Jim Ganther at 239·7569for details. 
.­

.--fCorbys} Wednesday Night 
~[~~~· Specials 3 -8PM Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 8-3AM 12oz Bud Drafts 75 cents 
CELEBRATE ST. PATS EARLY••• AN IRISH EVENING with comedian Hal Roach 
and the Paddy Nof,)nan Band 
Mon. Feb. 13th Washington Hall 8-JOPM Tue. Feb. 14th O'Laughlin Auditorium (SMC) 8-JOPM 
.Tickets $7.00 General admission at S. U. Ticket Office $5.00 with SMCIND ID or O'Laughlin 
~~ Iii .. At 
~ t FEB. 13 CHANCE TO DANCE , ; (After the show FREE with ticket stub) ~~(lj 12PM Chautauqua lV Drawing for dinner for 2 at Se111or KeUy's ~~ Kee tic et !! 





TheInstitutefor Paralegal Training works. Sodoits graduates. 
Four months of intensive training can add market value to your college degree. 
A sampling of jobs our graduates hold: LEGISLATIVE RESEARCHER, MUNfCIPAL BOND PARALEGAL, REAL ESTATE MARKETING DIRECTOR, ESTATES & TRUSTS LEGAL ASSISTANT, ENERGY SPECIALIST, ANTITRUST SPECIALIST, CORPORATE BENEFITS PLANNER, ENVIRONMENTAL LAW SPECIALIST 
• 
Through our cor_poratt• contactb, our national search team and our computenzed placement sl:'rvice, we have placed over 5,000 of our graduates m law firms, banks and corporations nation wide. 

• 
You can specialize in one of seven areas of thl:' law. 

• 
All courses include training in computer applications to legal practice. 

• 
If we cannot secure a job for you in the city of your choice, we provide a substantial tutlion refund. 

• 
Financial aid and housing are available. 


We'll be at your campus on February 29 Contact your placement office to see our resource book on Jaw-related careers and to arrange for a group presentation or a personal interview. 
r---------------
Marr tnts'coupon to: RUNO
To learn more, call collect: 

I The Institute for Paralegal Training, I
(215) 567-4811. Or, return 

1 1926 Arch Street. Philadelphia. PA 19103 1
the coupon. 

I Please send a lree copy of your catalogue. ~ 1I D Philadelphia D Houston I
THE INSTTI1ITE 

I Name____________ 1
FOR PARAJ..ECAL 

I Address___________ 1
m:\INING 

I Ctty -----State--Zip -----tjH-1_ I 
Philadelphia 

Houston I College (yr. of grad.) I 
I ~M I 
L-__________._ __.:e::.:::~_:::=: ___..J 

AP Photo
Space walk 

This is an artisfs conception of the way astronaut Bruce McCandless II looked as be used the manned maneuvering unit ( MMU) in the first untetbered space walk yesterday. 
~.r.r.r.r.r.r.r~sENioRs==c~.r~n-, 
which will affect their lives. 
Dcfois said that the European peace movements arc a reaction to this fear and confusion. lie referred to many of the movements as a manifestation of "moral indigna· tion" and suggested that many offer no alternative programs. 
Dcfob concluded by saying that 

Europe must t1rst decide "what they want to defend and what kind of peace they want to establish." 
Dcfois will give a lecture today at noon at the <.Cnter for Social Con­cerns discussing the differences be· tween the American Bishop's Pastoral letter and that ofthe French Bishop's." 
I The most exciting weekend of your§ Senior Year is fast approaching ~ THE 1984 SENIOR FORMAL § Aprll13-14 at the Palmer House in Chicago 
~ We guarantee the Weekend will be filled with ~ Fun Times, Great Dancing, and Plenty to § Reminisce about.
S More Info Coming Soon 
§ 
~ 
§
§ 
~ ' 
~ .~ 
§
R 

~..r..r.r.r..r..r.r.r.r.r...o-.r..r..r....o-"..r..r..r,...c,-.r.r.r.r.r..r..r.r./'.r..r.r.r.;"'.r.r.r.r.r.r..r~ 
PIZZA 
16" LARGE....•... $6.19 
Extra Toppings S1.00 ea. 

Includes Free Delivery to NO & SMC 



Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night ltalhm Buffet Starting january 11th 
Every Wednesday it's Mama Marriott's Italian Buffet in the Looking Glass. Restaurant. A "bumz g~to" array of antipasta, minestrone, fettucine. cacciatore.lasagnr, pasta with four sauces, cheese, breads and desserts. It's all served up in a festive Italian atmosphere-checkered table cloths, a strolling musidan, -the works. 
Every Wednesday 
5:00p.m.-10:00 p.m. All you can eat for S9. 50. Children under 12 S4.75. 
$1.00 Off 
.Each adult's Wednt?Sday night.Mama Man:iott Italian Buffet purchased,,One. AA!pon per ~¥:;only. Offer expires May. 2~~-1984 ·. )w 
-~A~I A~~ ~~\-?~~~.M~.~fiot~~~:~ 
123 N. St.Joseph St., &>uth Bend (219) 234·2(Xl0 

----~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
The Observer 

A Lebanese rescue worker runs among destroyed cars in West Beirut yesterday morning looking for vic­tims of heavy shelling in the morning during fighting between the Lebanese army and leftist gunmen in the 

~----Mr. Ds Cauning Factcny----..... 
Announces 
D.l. Music -7clays a week 
DancetoWOUI'favodte aong• FEBRUARY SPECIAL FEATURE: 
Mon-Thurs Only 
Unescorted ladies may purchase their own bouse-brand drinks and draft beer for 50 cents 9PM-? (till when we close) 1516N.Jmnwood 233-7747 
We"re starting work NOWon the 
1984-85 ND Activities Calendar And we need your help!! 
***WANTED*** 
--Photographers --Ad Salesmen --Layout and Copy Persons 
ORGAN~TIONALMEEDNG 
Feb 8, 6:30 pm 
S.U. Offices, 2nd floor LaFortune 

Wednesday, February 8, 1984-page 5 
Marines to redeploy from airport to ships 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Triumphant Moslem rebels in command of west Beirut declared a cease-fire yester­day in their six-day war with the Lebanese army and said they were withdrawing from the city's devastated streets. 
President Reagan, vacationing in California, announced that U.S. Marines would be moved from their beleaguered positions at Beirut's in­ternational airport to warships operating along the Lebanese coast. He said the redeployment of the 
1,600 Marines "will begin shortly and proceed in stages." 
A Christian militia n mmander, Fadi Frem, called on his fighters to confront the Moslem-leftist chal­lenge, declaring, "We will see them at the battlefield." But no major new clashes were reported. 
The future of Lebanon's Christian president, the US.-backed Amin Gemayel, hung in the balance, his army weakened by Moslem defec· tions. 
Off Beirut, the five-inch guns of the mighty U.S. battleship New Jer­sey thundered to life at midday yes· 
»-·-rake..An'Alitnotaurro·ru·ncn'""'""'"'1 during the Sophomore Literary Festival I Feb 27 -March 3 I I 
Made In Hollywood. USA 
~ Presents
L 

THE ORIGINAL MOVIE POSTER EXHIBIT AND SALE 
Hundreds of original -novie ;:>esters and memorabiiia from the silent days to the pr9sent 
WHEN Wed.· Fri. 9AM · 6PM 
WHEREc LaFortune C'<:1nler, 
Rathskeller 
DON'T MISS ITI 
Including such hits os Gone With The \l:'lnd Flaahdonc• Otrlc•r ood o Ci•nH.mon ~Ink Floyd'l Th• Wall Artd Hunclr~MOnJII 

SHAMPOO SPECIAL 
Badin Hall 


Our  ~ter  stylists  have  the  up-to-date  and  
conventional  styles  fiN  the  men  and  women  of  the  
Notre Danie:and Saint Mary's campuses.  
·  Let us take care ofaltyour hair care needs.  

We also hllve a full Une ofretail hllir products and are located on campus for your convenience. 
1 QUART WITH PUMP 
$5.50 
Professional Conditioning Shampoo 
"Get them while they last" 
terday, shelling what was believed 
to be a rebel position after the US. 
Marine base at the airport again 
came under fire. One Marine was 
wounded. 
In west Beirut, 39 employees and 
dependents of the US. Embassy 
were airlifted out by helicopter be­
cause of"the current unstable situa· 
tion," t a Marine spokesman said. 
State Department officials in 
Washington said the evacuees, con­
sidered non-essential for the embas­
sy's operation, were taken to a 6th 
Fleet ship for later transfer to 
Cyprus. Thirty-six U.S. Embassy per­. sonnel remained in Beirut, they said. 
Two U.S. warships -the carrier 
Independence and destroyer Rick­
etts-cut short a port call in Turkey 
and were steaming back to rejoin 
.the flotilla off Lebanon. 
The new explosion of fighting, 
which began last Thursday and 
climaxed Monday with the rebel 
takeover of Moslem west Beirut, has 
put the multinational Beirut 
peacekeeping troops in a difficult 
position -cut off from the 
Lebanese government they are here 
to support. 
One French soldier was killed and 
at least 1 5 other members of the 
multinational force were wounded 
-including two Marines -in the 
fighting Monday and yesterday. 
About 200 Lebanese were reported 
killed and more than 300 wounded 
in the six days of fighting, police 
said. 
Reagan on Monday reaffirmed U.S. 
support for Gemayel and blamed the 
violence on Syria, which backs anti­
Gemayel forces. Western govern­
ments represented in the Beirut 
peackeeping force -the United 
States,. France, Italy and Britain ­
~re consulting urgently yesterday 
on "what our mission should be," 
U.S. Secretary ofState George Shultz told reporters traveling with him from Brazil to Grenada 
Public pressure wast mounting in 
Britain and Italy for a withdrawal of 
those countries' forces from 
Lebanon, and in Washington House 
Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. called 
again for a pullout ofthe Marines. 
Premiers Francois Mitterrand of 
France and Bettino Craxi of Italy 
suggested that UN. peacekeepers 
take over the Beirut duties. 
The sound of small arms fire and 
rocket-propelled grenades could be 
heard coming from the port area 
yesterday. The army and Shiite 
militiamen also still fought near a 
crossing point between east and 
west Beirut. But artillery shelling 
from both sides broke off in mid­
afternoon, amid a heavy rain, a Wes­
tern military source reported. 
Berri and Jumblatt called on their 
forces to observe a 2:15 p.m. cease­
fire, and the Lebanese army com­
mand said it would join in the truce. 
But gunfire continued beyond the 
deadline, though it was less intense. 
Phalangist militiamen had fought 
alongside army troops as they were 
routed from west Beirut Monday. 
At Beirut airport, Marine spokes­
man Maj. Dennis Brooks said the 
Marines came under fire before 
noon from mortars, and the battles­
hip New Jersey fired its five-inch 
guns at the source of fire -lr did 
not specify whether the attackers 
were Druse or Shiites. 
The Marines came under fire 
again at 1:15 p.m., he said, and one 
was wounded, seriously enough to 
be taken by helicopter for treatment 
aboard the amphibious assault ship 
Guam. Another Marine had been 
wounded Monday. 
An Italian communique said three 
Italian soldiers were wounded by 
stray bullets at their base in south 
Beirut Monday, bringing to 11 the 
number of Italians wounded in two 
days. 
The U.S. special Mideast envoy, Donald Rumsfeld, met with Gemayel for two hours yesterday. 
J 
ViewP-~0_1_._n_t________
w_e-dn-esd-ay_,F-eb-ru_ary_s_,1-98-4-pa-ge-6 
? for Saint Mary's student body president 
This is the space in which The Obseroer planned to endorse a candidate for student body president at Saint Mary's. 
Unfortunately, The Obseroer cannot give its ap­proval to either the Lee Ann Franks or the Michelle Manion ticket this year. 
And that's a shame, since the endorsement could have ht.·en a little more effective than in years past. Tomorrow's election is the first in three years to feature more than one ticket. 
Eileen Murphy was elected in 1982, after carry­ing 90 percent of the student vote. 
Last spring, The Ohseroer endorsed Elaine Hoc­ter and her vice presidents, but not without reservations. Her platform was not specific, and her ideas were less than innovative -then again, they didn't need to be. Hocter managed to get 87 percent of the vote. 
The Obseroer was looking forward to this year's contest. After all, recommending a candidate to its readers is one of the more important duties of a newspaper. 
Traditionally, candidates at both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame meet for a short question-and­answer session with The Obseroer editorial board. 

It is an opportunity for the entire board to meet the candidates and discuss the issues of the cam­paign. An Obseroer endorsement represents the opinion of a majority of the editorial board. A" meeting is the best way to reach an endorsement decision, unless the paper wants to rely on second­hand impressions and the aesthetic value of cam­paign posters. 
Such a meeting is essential at the College, where the campaign is limited to less than four days. 
When The Obseroer called the candidates Sun­day (the day the tickets were announced), the paper was told that Monday's "Meet the Can­didates Night" at Haggar College Center would be the only opportunity for the editorial board to lis­ten to the aspiring student leaders. 
Obseroer Editor in Chief David Dziedzic received an invitation to the meeting. Monday's meeting would be "an ideal forum for The Ob­seroer to meet the candidates and and to discuss pertinent issues with them," read the letter. The letter never mentioned that Monday's forum was designed to replace the traditional meeting of the candidates and the board. 
If this was the intention, why wasn't a mutually-convenient time arranged? Evening deadlines make it impossible for the 1 0 members of the editorial board to attend a 9 p.m. meeting. 
Perhaps the candidates do not consider an Ob­seroer endorsement worth their time. The two op­ponents say they "reached a mutual decision" not to seek an Obseroer endorsement. 
The Obseroer has made great efforts the la..'it few years to involve Saint Mary's in their campus newspaper. Thus, the decision by Franks and Manion not to talk to the board is an affront to Saint Mary's readers as well as to rhe Saint Mary's stu­dents who work for the newspaper. 
Hocter, who also serves as election commis­S.oner, informed the newspaper that the candidates might reconsider if The Obseroer planned to print an editorial on the matter. 
Perhaps their decision placed more importance on protecting their images than informing their constituents. ' 
Having only this dubious impression ofthe can~ didates, The Obseroer cannot in good faith support either ticket. Saint Mary's students; vote for whomever you please. 
P. 0. BoxQ  
Abortion choice DearEditor: This letter is in response to the ktter writ· ten by Brian Crouth on Feb. 2, 1984. Since the Roe v. Wade decision, abortion is a choice women can make. In certain cases, such as rape or incest, the trauma and shame n>ntributes to the choice to abort. T he fetus inside thl· woman is not a result ofher promis­cuity, hut it is a direct result of a violent, degrading action taken against her.  How can any woman want to love a abort or not to abort is the choice of the child brought about by such unlov­woman. The woman should be informed ofall ing circumstances? The trauma of a rape or an the options: keeping the baby, putting the incestuous experience is enough to live with, baby up for adoption, or abortion. Once in­without carrying a fetus, a constant reminder formed, the woman can weigh the options in of the episode, to full term. her mind and arrive at the most acceptable If a woman were to carry such a fetus to full solution. term, does she give it up for adoption and The only person who must defend the ac­wonder ifthe child will want to find its natural tion is the woman. She alone has the choice, mother someday and show up on her and she alone has the responsibility for her doorstep? actions. In the event of an accidental pregnancy If others feel she is morally wrong and will either by the absence of birth control or by a burn in hell, they are entitled to their opinion, birth control method failure, the choice to but shouldn't dictate their beliefS upon her.  Those people can and will opt for no abortion. That is their choice. Roe v. Wade gives women a choice. That choice should not be revoked. MelanieA. Bomberger Letters policy Editor's note: The appearance of letters to the editor is subject to the daily constrairlis of the page. All/etters are subject to editilfg and become the property ofThe Obser-ver. 1 1  


Editorial Board  Depat1ment Managers  
Editor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic  
1'. 0. Bo:c Q, Notre Dame, IN 46';56  ( 219) 239·5303  Managing Editor.......................Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen  
The Obseri'<'T" is the independl·nt newspaper published by the students of the l'ni·  Executive Editor.................................Paul McGinn  Controller.......................... ..................Alex Szilvas  
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect  News Editor.................................Bob Vonderheide  Advertising Manager.... ...................Jeanie Poole  
thl· policieS of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac·  NewsEditor....................................Mark Worscheh  Circulation Manager.........................Mark Miotto  
curately and as objectively as po~sible. llnsigned editorials rl·present the opinon ofa  Saint Mary's Editor..................Anne Monastyrski  Systems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams  
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters. and the Inside Column present till" vkws oftheir authors. Column space is available: to all members ofthe community.  Sports E4jf,Qr; ·v.,............................Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor .............. : ......... : ..:..,:kthb·pteher  Founded November 3, 1966.  
and the frn· expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  Features Editor............•..................Sarah Hamilton  
Photo Editor..........................................Scoit Bower  


---------,"-:~ll 
... 
~


Showcase 
Wednesday, February 8, 1984 -page 7 
Sonte brilliant bits of legislation
Miss Manners 
Tacky is as tacky does 

by Judith Martin 

Dear Miss Manners -I have been divorced for two years and have not lived with my former husband for four years. We are not close and have communicated infrequently. 
In October, he called to ask if I wanted the dog and cat, since he 
planned to get married and his intended is allergic to both. I declined 
the offer, gently reminding him that he had kept the pets against my 
wishes and that apartment living would not be suitable for suburban 
pets. 
Last week, I received a printed announcement of his marriage. I 
believe sendingsuch an announcement to a former spouse is a social 
faux pas, displaying a ncar-total absence of sensitivity or much 
repressed anger. 
How should I respond? Certainly not with a gift. I considered 
writing "tacky, tacky, tacky" across the announcement and return­
ing it. Silence may be most appropriate but hardly emotionally 
satisfying. You might be interested to know that I was wife trois, and 
she is wife quatrc. 
Gentle Reader -Miss Manners can think of lots of emotionally satisfying things for you to do, much more imaginative, ifsh'e may say so, than writing rude comments on their wedding announcement. (Yes, it was an error for them to send it, but it is as likely to be from an excess of let's-be friends nonsense as hostility.) You could send them a basket of kittens with a big white bow on it, or a letter in which you, speaking also on behalf of wives une and deux, if you must put it that way, wish them a long and happy life together ever after. 
But you should know that anything that you do, other than silence 
(and Miss Manners means anything, probably including a perfectly 
proper letter wishing them joy) will be interpreted as repressed 
anger. Practically everything is interpreted as repressed anger these 
days. What a bore, but that's the way it is. 
DearMiss Manners -Last night I had the unfortunate experience of dining with a gentleman who had absolutely no experience at "finer dining." When the maitre d' brought out wine, he poured a small amount into my date's glass waiting, ofcourse, for his approval ofthe wine. My date embarrassingly told the waiter, "Don't be stingy, fill it up." I then had to tell him (in front of the waiter) that he was supposed to taste it and give his approval. 
Did I do the right thing? I was totally embarrassed, as was the wovter. What would you have done in my place? 
Gerztle Reader -Not died of embarrassment, that is for sure. Neit­her would Miss Manners have committed the gross error oftelling a gentleman what he was "supposed" to do (although she might have saii:J pleasantly, "I think he wants to make sure the wine hasn't gone bad before he pours the rest.") Miss Manners is far more interested in the feelings of gentlemen friends than she is in what impression they make upon waiters, which may explain why she has so much experience with "finer dining." 
Dear Miss Manners -You may remember the letter I wrote about the lunch I had with my old flame Richard, 12 years after we parted (I've been happily married for 8 years) and the mental gym­nastics I went through deciding how to respond to Richard's greet­ing, a mannerly kiss. 
You called my bluff on that one, Miss Manners. It's true that the 
confusion I felt came not from the etiquette problem ofsocial kiss­
ing, but a moral one: Am I going to act on the way that I feel? 
I thought about it long and hard, Miss Manners. But then I did act. 
The friendship that Richard and I took up again has since matured 
and blossomed into love. Things are still going great with my hus· 
band. And so I have made the unoriginal discovery that you can love 
two people at once. 
I haven't told anyone about this. I broke a moral code and must live with my conscience. However, I was surprised to discover the roie that etiquette plays in an affair. (By etiquette, I mean considera­tion for other people; morality, to me, means do unto others as you would have them do unto you.) 
Having forfeited one ofthese principles, I am grateful for the other one. For example, I'm more considerate of my husband than I was before. Also, Richard accepts the limits ofour relationship. "I have the greatest respect for your husband," he said. Richard also in­troduced me to his sister, who accepted me with grace. 
I suppose the implication of what I'm saying is that immoral acts are justified if one remains polite. I don't know about that. I do have a more personal ideawhat people mean when they talk about "society going downhill." 
I'm prepared to face the consequences ofmy actions; I was raised in a solid monogamous family and am surprised that I've taken this step. 
My husband and I are happier than ever. I love him a lot. Do you 
have any comments? Gentle Reader -Please remember that Miss Manners is your eti­quette advisor, not your morality counselor. She cannot possibly agree that polite behavior justifies immoral acts -but neither does she believe that a moral life entitles one to get away with being rude to others. The two spheres are quite independent, and one shoulddo one's best in both. She will only go so far as to agree wit~y~~tha_t if one breaks down, it is a comfort to know one is doing well in the other. And she will admit that the polite, immoral person has all the advantage over the rude, moral one, at least in this life. 

by Chip Block 
features columnist 
I 
subscribed to cable TV last week. Most people wouldn't look at this as a major event, but after struggling through my first off-campus semes­ter with fuzzy-faced reporters on channel 16 and no sound on channel 28, I decided to splurge. I also got tired offifteen minutes ofweather with Dick Addis. It sure takes him a long time to say "snow tomorrow." After I had the cable hooked up I started organizing a routine so that I wouldn't miss my favorite shows. Unfortunately, The Munsters are on atthe same time I have class (and the registrar didn't think that watching Herman and Lily warranted a schedule change). Surprisingly, one channel that caught my interest was the coverage ofthe United States Congress. I love the formality in which they try to pass bills. I can im­agine that the laws ofNotre Dame have undergone the same scrutiny and debate as the laws ofour cou~try. 
In the past few years the Notre 
Dame lawmakers have passed some 
great pieces oflegislation. Hours of 
litigation must have been consumed 
to draft the rules that have been so 
important to the University. Most of 
the freshman and sophomores 
weren't around to witness the birth 
ofthese laws, but I will try and 
describe them the best way I know 
how. 

The North and South Quad Boycott of 1982 -the Administra­tion deemed it illegal to play foot­ball, frisbee, baseball, or any type of energetic activity on the North or South Quad. This was the school's first indication that they believed the grass ofthe world should be preserved, and that Notre Dame 
Movies 
would take the first step. The law in­cluded an amendment that su,g­gested students play on the fields surrounding the campus. Realizing that ifa student wanted to get some physical activity he would have to walk acrosss the quad, past the bas­
ketball courts, around Stepan Center 
and then fight with interhall football 
players for a space ofgrass, the Ad­ministration could discourage any type offun desired by the students. Without physical activity students would study more and be less rest­
less while standing in line at the dining halls. The Boycott of'82 is a 
truly brilliant piece ofwork. 
The StampedeAct -this bill reaf­firmed the University's committ­ment to protecting the endangered species known as grass. The bill made running onto the football field before a game a punishable act. The Administration ruled that the tradi­tion ofstudents pouring onto the field to greet the team put the grass in severe peril Therefore, it had to be stopped. In the United States Congress men stand up and talk for hours trying to drive a point into their constituents. I am sure that the same painstaki.,g process took place when the Notre Dame Administra­tion passed the Stampede Act. The original draft included banning the other twenty-two men and their dangerous cleats from entering the field, but a few high-ranking con­servatives axed the provision by veto. Although this law has been pushed onto the back burner and is now seldom enforced, it remains on the books for use in the future. 
The "I'll Shoot You Before You Shoot Me" Act of 1980 -only the seniors and a few graduate students 

will remember thislaw, but it will al­ways be my favorite. Since I came in close contact with the conditions of this rule, I like to consider it the Administration's finest piece of work. The law came about because ofa newAn Tostal event that caused a large number ofstudents to have fun. "Mass Assassin" involved over five hundred students playingjames Bond and trying to shoot one anoth­er with toy dart guns. The game ran smoothly with no physical harm to students -although a few students reportedly improved their social lives. There were stories ofpeople being shot in the nude, and students jumping out ofthird story windows trying to escape an oncomingdart; but the storieswere all blown upfor better publicity. However, five hundred peopledid have fun and the Administration called a special ses­sion to ban the game from ever happening again at Notre Dame. Ruling that the game was "un­Christian" and didn't belong on a Catholic campus, the lawmakers silenced the dartsforever. just in the nick oftime, all sorts of"un­Christianlike" activities had been springing up during the spring of 1980 and the Administration jumped in and rescued the morality ofthe Notre Dame community.­
These are just a few ofmy favorite pieces oflegislation sent down from the halls ofthe Golden Dome. I am secure in knowing that right now the intricate workings ofdebate and protocol on the Administration's part are protecting our hallowed way oflife at Notre Dame. 
A WARD OF THE WEEK: this weeks award, the first ofa long line oftreasured awards, goes to the stu­dent who ripped offa doorhandle to the Engineering Building. It was a valiant attempt to stop classes, but the University fixed the handle before any disaster could result. 


by Stephen Thomas 
features staffwriter 
(Mandy Patakin-Che in Broad­
way'sEvita) and falls in love with 
him. Yentl's conflict with Avigdor's 
present girlfriend (Amy Irving) ad­
vances the film to the eventual 
revealing ofYentl as a female. 
Streisand creatively incorporates 
music into the film at the different 
points ofYentl's student life. Her 
This is One ofThoseMoments is an 
excellent piece where Streisand 
gives it her all.No MatterWhatHap­pens, a song that comments on the actions ofAvigdor's girlfriend, is also entertaining. 
Yentl is genuinely concerned with making itselfvisually pleasing to the audience. The photography is unique in that it is always lookingfor different ways to look at it's charac­ters and their settings. It is interest­ing to note the authentic details of the character's clothes, and the use ofmaterials that were common to the period. 
Unfortunately, the film suffers from an overabundance ofStreisand. Her voice should receive top billing, but the film suffers from not letting the other actors develop their characters. The film's pacing also works against itself Yentl drags slowly, often lending itselfto boredom. Streisand buildS com­plications into the story line that take much too long to resolve them­selves. 
Acrisp soundtrack and Lhe close 
attention to detail help to balance 
out the problems ofYentl, making it 
an above average film. Although it is 
not the year's best movie, by any 
means, this reviewer gives it an over­
all thumb's-up rating. 
A
dvertised as a film with music, Barbra Streisand's "Yentl" is a 1983 year-end release that is still doing a respectable business at the box office. Yentl is a story ofa girl who dared to ask 'why' in a time when the world ofstudying belonged to men. 
Streisand plays "Yentl," a young jewish girl who is displeased with the position that women are ex­pected to take in hersociety. She has 
Yentl: saturated with Streisand 

a desire to study the Talmud like her Rabbi fatheJ; and her male counter· parts in society do. Her father, however, feels that it is not Venti's place to be concerned with study­ing. After her father's death, however, Yentl decides that she must fulfill her need to study. 
Yentl disguises herselfas a male and is accepted into the Yeshiva schools. At the school, Yentl becomes friends with Avigdor 




Sports Briefs 
An Aspen ski trip informational meeting will be held tomorrow in the Lafortune Little Theater. A Student Union Florida meeting will be held at 6:30p.m. -The Observer 
The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
will be meeting TOnight at 7:30p.m. in room 20 ofHayes-Healy. All arc welcome. -The Observer 
The NO Weightlifting club is sponsoring a free 
course in bodybuildiing and weightlifting for men and women. The first class is today at 7 p.m. in the third floor gymnastics room at the Rockne Memorial. For details, call Pat Toole at 277-571.-The Ob­sen,er 

A cross-country skiing moonlighter is scheduled for tomorrow on the Burke golfcourse. Skiers will be allowed on the course anytime from 7-10 p.m. Ski rental is $1. -The Observer 
Wednesday, February 8, 1984-page 8 
The billiards tournatllent begins today and 
registration will take place at the pool room desk. -The Observer 
A fitness screening will be offered on February 16 by NVAand the Century Club. The event will be conducted by the St. Joseph Sportsmed/Health Awareness Program. The cost is S 15, which includes tests of cardiovascular fitness, blood pressure response to exercise, muscular strength, symmetry, flexibility, and body composition. You must apply for the program in person at the NVA office by today. Call239-6690 or 239-6100 for more details. ­
The Observer 

Your Healtll is a three-night seminar sponsored by Cen­tury Club and NVA. The seminar which concludes today is being held in the Lafortune Center Classroom (first floor). Lectures begin at 7 p.m. Today's's lecture is "Did You Know You're Feeling Stressed?" The speaker is Luis Valdes from the Notre Dame Counsel­ing and Psychological Services office. Register for the seminar by calling NVA at 239-6100. The cost for the remaining lecture is n.­The Observer 
DePaul loses to St. Joe's 
just think of it. This Saturday, the second-ranked and undefeated DePaul Blue Demons would visit the ACC where the Irish would give them their first loss ofthe season and jump into the Top 20. 
If that is what you had been imagining, forget it. St. joseph's (Pa.) beat the Irish to the punch last night by knockingoffDePaul, 58-45, in the Palestra in Philadelphia. 
Whether or not Ray Meyer's squad was looking ahead to Notre Dame is unknown, but the loss means that an angry DePaul team will visit the ACC, making Digger Phelps' job that much harder. 
Meanwhile, Phelps can only hope the same fate does not lie in store for his team as it travels to the Meadowlands in East Rutherford, 
N.J. tomorrow to face Rutgers. More details on both games will follow later this week. 

Tbe Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third ftoor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tbe Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third ftoor of Haggar College Center, accepts classilieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday though Friday. Deadline for next­
Jar classilieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person



Classifieds 
rby mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT­HEPISI Sulfa up but our prlcea .....,.l From juat S 109.00 -apanel 7 fun-filled d•Y• In aunny FlorkiL Call for your•ll or organla a ....,.11 group -lrllvel FREEl G"'at lor cluba, tool Call LUV TOURS (800) 386-2008, uk for An­
nene. 
CRANSTON FOR PRESIDENT Anyone Interested 1n campaiQmng lor Alan Cranston 1n the upcom1ng Democratic pnmanes contact Terry at 8764 CRANSTON FOR PRESIDENT 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME AT REASONABLE RATES. CALL MRS COKER 233· 7009 
REWARDS15TO FIRST PROVIDER OF A UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 1980­81 STUDENT NAME AND ADDRESS DIRECTORY. CALL MATT DYE AT (800) 423-2939, 8 A.M.-5 P.M. P.C.T. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST· One gray and white th1n-stnped long sleeve shirt w1th a small hole on the top left shoulder It was accidentally put 1n someone·s laundry by St. MIChael's Laundry ServiCe before Chnstmas. II you have 11. please returntoJ1m at Xt 101 
LOST GOLD BEAD NECKLACE WITH DIAMOND CHIP SPACER BETWEEN MIDDLE BEADS IF FFOUND. PLEASE CALL MARY AT 283-6781 
FOUND A Man's grey Saranac· glove on Jan, 31 1n the parlunglot of Lemans at SMC To cla1m please call Leslie at 264· 4380 
LOST One cnmson·colored warm-up 1ackel wrth the word Harvard" on the back LAST SEEN 1n the ACC on t /21/64 Reward offered Please call 
GREG AT 277-5062 . 
FOUND ON t/30 · BLUE CAP BE· TWEEN LIBRARY & BP CALL SYLVIA 6714 
WHOEVER FOUND THE SHARP CAL· CULATOR IN THE BUSINESS BUILD· lNG. PLEASE CALL DAN AT 3670 
LOST The TORSO of our mannequin. answers to Blanche was stolen !rom 2nd floor Stanford lhe mght ol the Tacky Party.. (1/27) Anyone wrth 01lo PLEASE call 264·5418. Great sentimental value. Reward 
A blue Add1das book bag was lost at the South D1n1ng Hall on 2/2 lllound pleasse call Chuck at t 972. 
FOUND On south qued., front of Alumnr A gold cuff·link or 11 IS a he bar. with the gold lener 'R' on the lace Call STEVE at 1178 
LOST. Set of keys on three nngs and a toenail clipper were lost Friday. Jan. 21. t 964 at Corby Bar Please call234·7256. Very much needed 
FOUND: MAN'S TIMEX WATCH IN PSYCH. BLDG. LAST WEEK. CALL LUCY AT 1340 TO IDENTIFY. 
LOST. A set ol keys at Stepan Center on Sunday. Feb.5. PLEASE call 7559 d you flnd them Great sentimental and monetary value 
FOUND A SET OF KEYS IN STEPAN CENTER ON 2-5. CALL JEFF at t 194 TO CLAIM THEM. 
FOUND: BLUE FOLDUP CHAIR IN S. QUAD CALL5451 MUST IDENTIFY. 

Found. A gold bracelet 1nbetween Flanner 
and P W. on Saturday Night To Claim 
please call Ellen at 4556 

I FOUND THE HEAD OF A CASIO WATC)l IN FARLEY HALL. IS IT YOURS? IF SO CALL ME AT 4263 AND TELL ME WHERE YOU LOST IT. 
lost !I t 8-20 burgundy beaded necklace of great sentimental value lost some· where between O'Shag and South Dining Hall on tuesday at noon. it lound please call Beth at 283·6747 or 283·6745 
Lost-D1amond and sapphire ring. Belonged to Grandma. Great senttmental value II Ieung please call 264·4437 Reward 
FOR RENT 

-one male roommate. Rent $80 
per monttl. One mile north ol campus. 
Call Tom 81277-4851. 

AVAILABLE NOW· Efficiency apartment 
near Notre Dame on busline. 255-8505. 
WANTED 

Summer Sales Posltton. Average ear­mngs $2700 Sell yellow page advertising lor Notre Dame and Westem M1ch1gan Umversity Campus Telephone Dirac· tones Spend 5 weeks in Notre Dame and 5 weeks 1n Kalamazoo Car necessary No summer school students. Lodging and 
one meal per day provided wh1le in Kalamazoo S1gn-up lor Interview by · February 10 at Career and Placement ServiCes. 
CHOOSE UFE FOR YOUR BABY! CONSDER THE OPTION OF ADOP­TION! INFERTILE COUPLE WANTS TO ADOPT INFANT. WRITE P.O. BOX 5398, FT. WAYNE, IN 46805. 
HOUSEMATE WANTED AS 5TH MAN. 
$80/MO. & UTJLITIES. CALL 277-4851. 
WWANTED. Enthus1asm and expenence lor Soph. Class officers. Interested? Vote HELLER, HUNDMAN, BURKE, AND GILLIG thursday at HCC 
NEED RIDE to Harrisburg. PA, leav1ng 2117 return1ng 2/19 or 2120 Willing to be drppped off anywhere east ol Pittsburgh. Call Man sa at 283-1302, 
Riders wanted to U oil Champaigne next 
weekend leave Fri. 2/10 retum Sunday 
2/12 room lor lour-cheap call Rose 7815 
FOR SALE 

Want to know what's really !)01ng on in the Cathohc Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER. the only newspaper ol the U.S. Church. For sub­scription tnformation and a free sample copy. call Paul at 277-4851. 
SA C90 tapes. $25 lor case olt0 call Dan 
Meakin at 277·3306 

SPRINGSTEEN ON VIDEO BOTH THE 
RIVER AND BORN TO RUN TOURS 
CALL 233-14 76 

FOR SALE: PIONEER TURNTABLE 
AND A DELCO CAR RADIO BEST OF­
FER CALL8046 

...................................................(........... 
TICKETS 
$$$$DESPERATELY NEED DEPAUL STUD. TIX CALL ,JfFF t 026 
NEED DEPAUL STUD. TIX CALL MARK(Megilla) 1059 
I NEED DE PAUL TIX'S. WILL EX­CHANGE MARQUETTE TIX'S OR CASH. CALLJOEL AT NO. 1570 
I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA BASKETBALL TIX. call Greg at 277-5062. 
~~~R~UE.-rE Tl~-~-~~~~~~~9 .. 
Need many Marquene tix $$call Sue 284­5173 
Need 4 DePaul tix(stu. or GA) Pete 1224 
NEED 2 DEPAUL GAs. Call Kathy at 2966. . 
Eam A LOT ol $$. I need 2 or 3 DEPAUL GAs. Call Chris 3417. 
4 SALE: 1 t TICKETS TO SEE THE POLICE SUN. FEB. 19 AT THE ROSEMONT HORIZON IN CHICAGO. THEY WILL BE SOLD TO THE HIGHEST BIDDERS. CALL 1193. 
Anyone have some extra DePaul lix? I 
need al least 4 lor dad and his buddies. 
Call Rob at 3251. 
.............,!.!!./··" 
$$$ 

I ne<lif 3 DePaultlckalal 
Call Lau"' x8130 
$$$ 

HELPJIIINDIRENEEDOFDEPAUL TIX. PLEASE CALL DAVE AT NO. 3540. 
I'm DYING of a terminal cold and have yet to see DEPAUL-NO LIVE. Need tickets lo complete my lile. ED ·8938 
GO AHEAD MAKE MY DAY sell me your 2 DEPAUL GA'S and take my parents money TOM 3180 
NEED DEPAUL STUD. TIX CALL LOU 8760/8776 
Wanted 4 Marquene G.A.'s-Call Tom at 3039 
IN DIRE NEED OF 3 STUDENT OH uA TIX FOR DEPAUL GAME. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS CALL SCOTT 3271 
I NEED DePAUL TIX CALL 8046. 
NEED 4 DEPAUL GA'S. FAMILY HAS NEVER SEEN AN ND BASKETBALL GAME. WILLING TO PAY BIG$$$. TOM 6970 
Need DePaul GA'S call John ater 7pm collect (312)998·8384 ... .. .'.... Need 2 DePaul G.A.s. Greg 1077 
Dad r.eeds 2 DePaul GA's. W/trade my DePaul & Marquene student & $ lor 2 De Paul GA's .. Call John 6216. 
Need 2 stu. tix lor the Marquene game. Call1388 
I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'S CALL BOB AT 7820 
HAVE CASH · NEED MARQUETTE TICKETS CALL MATT xt 228 
Need 2 DePaul tix Call John x1238 
Need Marquene lix. Call Jay at 283-6756 
NEED 2 Depaullickels. Will pay$$$. Call 277-6392 
I NEED DEPAUL TIX5.272-e306 
NEED TIX FOR ZZ TOP! 8238. 
NOTHING FANCY! I NEED 2 DEPAUL TIX.(STU or GA) CALL GARY AT 8713. 
NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'S. PLEASE CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303. 
NEED MARQUETTE TIX Mike or Kerth 1180 
Need 2 DePaul G.A. Tix $$ call284-283 
PERSONALS 
To my Secret Sweetie In Zahm Thank you lor the white roses. They made my dayl Hope you have a great day today. ·M.F. 327 Lewis 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N, ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 
LOVE IS ... FLOWERS ON 
VALENTINE'S DAY! 

REGINA'S VALENTINE CARNATION 
SALE 

BUY FOR A LOVER OR THAT SPECIAL 
FRIEND! 

ORDER FEB 5-9 4:30-6PM AT SMC 
DINING HALL 

CARNATIONS.75 EA. DELIVERED FEB 
14 

SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL WRITING CONTEST Open to all grad & undergrad students Poetry & Prose ac­cepted wnh no length requirements Sub­mn one copy wnh name and address to 309 O'Shag by FEB 10 Winners will be notlied by FEB 17 For more inlo call Patrick McManus 283-t 754 
n·a a Funky Reggae Party, and H's Saturday Night Chataqua, 9-1,$1. 
Anention SMC Juniors: Vote PASCENTE 
DUNN 
BRINGARDNER 
PINOm 

For Senior Class Officers on Feb. 9 at 
HCC. 

You've got to lively up yourself And don't be no drag 
AAmy. 18 days until Leonard 
VOTE EXPERIENCE! JEANNE HELLER ANGIE HUNDMAN BETSY BURKE JILL GILLIG lor Soph. Officer Feb. 9 HCC 
A DEDICATED TEAM VOTE FEBRUARY 9-HCC FRANKS KOLLMAN STRAZZABOSCO STUDENT BODY OFFICERS 
Anent1on SMC Sophomore Class LAV. 
CASCIO, HOKE, & JACK 
No where else is a Better Pack 
Elect them lor your Junior cla.s officers 
Feb 9. 1984 Haggar Center 7am·6pm 
OBSERVER VALENTINESIOBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES! OBSERVER VALENTINES! 
Marlnltes do n with mo..., mellowne-,1 
Marlnltes doH wHh more mellowne..l 
Marlnltes doH wHh mo... mello-1 
Robin, Bob, Nick, ZH, Ted, JT, Lynn, AB,B. 
Oh, to be at Kirkwood. now that spnng is here 
.or Heavenly .. 
or Aspen ... 
or Park City. 
or Steamboat . 
or anywhere wfth sun, snow, and some 
verlical. 
Quote olthe Week: 
We're not talking dallinace here. We're talking lull· fledged infatuation I" 
The Vice President 
Hey you 
THE CLOCK was at t 2 m1nutes to Mid­
night in t 979, rt !ell to 9 before (Dec. 79), 
then jumped to 4 minutes to doom (Jan. 
81). and just last month moved to 3 
minutes. It is the closest to Midnight THE 
CLOCK has been since t 953, when it 
was 2 minutes to Armageddon. 
Need ZZ Top tickets call John ..B83U 
Julie. Janet. Suzy. & Beth. Good Luck and Best Wishes in tomorrow's class alec­tonsil Love, Joe ' 
MICHAEL· HAPPY BIRTHDAYI!I I CANT WAIT UNTIL WE CAN SPEND YOUR NEXT B·DAY TOGETHER. I'LL MAKE SURE WE HAVE PLENTY OF DESSERTS!!! LOVE. JOAN 
WANTED RIDE OR RIDERS TO RICH· MONO/DC AREA FOR THIS WEEKEND. LEAVE 219.RETURN 2112 CALL JEFF 8854 
DANCE BAND SEEKS GAINFUl EMPLOYMENT DAVE 3207 OR ROGER 3103NEATO! 
MARY & THE FOUR DOMES -IN CON­CERT WITH THE BOOGIE BLUES BANDI 
ASK PAT SWEENEY WHY HE'S SMILING I 
Nuclear Teach-in'' this weekend. An op­portunity to stop wallowing in ignorance. 
I NEED DePAUL TIX. CALL 8046 
TAKE THE GOLD MEDAL! VOTE: MANIONSBP HARTVPAA KARNATZVPSA FEB 9 7-61N HAGGAR THE TRADmON CONTINUES ... 
ATTENTION SMC JUNIORS. FOR THE BEST YEAR EVER VOTE ... PASCENTE-PRES . DUNN-V.P. BRINGARDNER-SEC PINOm-mEAS FOR SENIOR CLASS OFFICERS. VOTE ON FEB9ATHCC 
Hey you-THANKS FOR MAKING MY YEAR THE BEST ONE EVER I!! 
AAAn stock steals lood. DAN STOCK STEALS FOOD. DAN STOCK STEALS 
Yo Turp/11 Happy Belated Eklayl Love "TheUDES" 
TO PERRY BUTLER:Good News' The tests results were negat1ve!-Billy. 
IRISH BASKETBALL TONIGHT 7:30 
Good luck tonight against Illinois State. 
You beat them lasl year, and you can don 
again I Mary's Di-Hards 

We love you DANNY DOMERII! Your loyallans 
BUY 
OBSERVER VALENTINES 
GRANT THE WOMEN OF ND HAVE A REQUEST, GO BACK TO HCJC. 
ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE HIS STOMACH IS FED HIS HEART IS TRUE WHAT THIS MAN NEEDS IS SOME LOVE FROM YOU LADIES! TODAY IS MARK MCDERMOTT'S BIRTHDAY SEE WHAT YOU CAN DO 
JOHNNY GOT HIS GUN. Feb. 8 & ij eng1neenng aud.. 7:00 & 9:15 admissiOn $1. 
ND/SMC WOMEN-YES!ITS FINALY HEREI CHRIS "ROD THE BOD RODERICK$ 20TH B-DAY! HUI!IRY. LINES ARE FORMING NOW. FIND OUT HOW HE EARNED HIS NAME & !.lOW OTHER "THINGS JUST DON T COMPAREIII ACT NOW. EVEN BIONIC MEN GET TIRED EVENTUALL Y1 I 
HAPPY 21ST DIANE YODER HELP THE WILD WENCH CELEBRATE HER BIRTHDAY. STOP BY 132 LEWIS TODAY! (yes-she's on campus now!I!!!IJ!!II!II!II!I) 
The Gary Hart Campaign Needs Your Help I Anyone interested in help1ng wnh Hart's Mock Convention Organization call 283-1770 
DEADLINE: Mardi Gras 1-Shlrt des19n by Fri 
SMC Class ol 1987 BE COMPLETE! Elect: Flynn Mullarkey 
ono 
Shary Sophomore Class Officers 
Three SMC girls need a ride to Flonda lor Spnng Break 5469 
II you never s11ck your neck out. youll never get your head above the crowd. We will. COLEMAN, BLANZ. HONNIGFORD. CURRAN 
LIFE IS t&o WHAT YOU MAKE IT, 9&o HOW YOU TAKE IT. WE'LL MAKE IT. COLEMAN 
BLANZ HONNINGFORD CURRRRAN 
Uncle Mark. You're my parental guidance and Kathy's potential dancing 1n Alumm What's your major? Oh myl Can you take me to the mall? Guilt. Cute. What's yoll' grip size? Friends? Love, Yoll Niece Sarah 
Class of 1985 Vote Galligan. Bowler. Bomch, Rauh on Feb. 9. in HCCI 
SMC Class of 88 Elect the 4 lor all seasons: Juhe Harmon-President, Janet Biegei-Vice-Pres1dent. Suzy Welsh· Secretary. Beth Steber-Tresurer Vote Feb 9th 7:00am to 6:00pm HCC 
Class ol 1985 Vote Galligan. Bowler. Bonich. Rauh on Feb. 9, 1n te HCC 
Mark, We love your darner and your car. Where are the keys? Love those Calvinsl Kathy and Sarah 
Class ol 1985 Vote Galligan. Bowler. Bomch, Rauh on Feb. 9. 1n te HCC 
Hey Pnest. I can descnbe you 1n many ways tall. d..rk. handsom 

. The Observer Wednesday, February 8, 1984-page 9 

The Observer/Paul Citarelli
li 

Ruth ftaiserand tbe rest oftbelrisb women's basketballteam are hoping tp get back on tbe winning track tonight against t/Je Red­birds ofIllinois State, beginning at 7:30p.m. at tbe ACC. For more on tbe game, seeMike Sullivan's story on page 12. 
YOU
1( 
tooking to the future. And helping to shap e 11. 'Ee a part of projects that go far beyond e 
rw 
defined technology. Live 1n a world where diSCiplines are static, few problems are s1m 
and few dreams imposs1ble . a world 
you can make a difference. 
TRW 
TRW offers a w1de range of challeng1ng opportunities in the fields l1sted; projects that range from theoretical stud1es to small, med1um, and large hardware contracts for space, digital commun1cat1ons, software developmen~ systems eng1neenng and microelectronics. 
TRW offers full support for your continuing education plus a work environment that 1s exceptionally attractive to self-motivated people. 
TRW will be on-campus 
shapin9_,~your tom~~;ow. 
:lt'i.l· 
·llsil ..J l~sb-'"!1>8 . 
Equal Opportunlfy Employ~r M/F/H 
19111eU , sW ·1rlT •,;owq!r1 ..,_ R3JTLJCJ 
U.S. Citizenship Requ·ired 
'YHH~q 01 

Women's swimming 
Irish defeat overmatched Belles 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
It was a loud and enthusiastic crowd that assembled to watch the Notre Dame women's swim team defeat the Saint Mary's Belles. 84-38, last night in the Rockne Memorial Pool. 
The Irish took first place in eve event except the I00-yard in­dividual medly, the 500-yard freestyle ami the 50-yard butterfly races. "We didn't know what Saint Mary's had, but I'm pleased with the results and we had some good times," said Netre Dame head coach Dennis Stark. 
Last night's meet marked the close of the Saint Mary's regular season, and for the first time in the history of the team, the 4-3 Belles ended with a winning season. "Our focus was to improve times," explained Saint Mary's head coach Scott Trees. 
Although the meet was not close, the Belles \Vere not discouraged by last night's results. Both relay teams broke varsity records, and Amy Studer broke the NAIA record in the 100-yard IM race. "It was a good meet, but it's not what we'll be swimming at nationals," said Trees. 
The Irish always look forward to 
Your background 


the annual contest against the Belles because there is an intense rivalry between the two teams. "They get better every year, but we're always better," explained Irish swimmer Karin McCaffery. 
Last night, fans polarized to their respective sides of the pool. Saint Mary's fans on one side displayed a red, white, and blue banner declar­ing the Belles would "take the fight out of the Irish," and Notre Dame fans on the other side simply watched the Irish chalk up points. 
Although neither Notre Dame nor Saint Mary's provide scholarships for their swimmers, the two teams arc not in the same association. The Irish compete in the NCAA Division I and the Belles swim in the NAIA Division III. "It's a different level of competition," said Stark. 
Qualifiying times for the NCAA Division I National Meet are much quicker than those for the NAIA, and the Irish saw the competition against Saint Mary's as an oppor­tunity to prove who has a better team. "It's our chance to show su­periority," said Notre Dame co­captain Raili Tikka. 
The victory over the Belles improved Notre Dame's record to 5­5 and allowed the Irish to complete 
TRW Electronics & Defense 
tht:ir home season on a winning not<:. The win should generate spirit on the team as the Irish prepare for the Northstar Conference Cham­pionships and the Midwest Invita­tional Meet. 
"It will boost our morale for the Conference Championship and the 
Midwest  Invitational,"  explained  
Tikka.  
In  last  weekend's  double  dual  

meet at Bowling Green, the Irish lost to Bowling Green, 89-43, and to the l!niversity of Northern Illinois, 89­52. 
Although the Irish were disap· pointed to see their record drop from 4-3 to 4-5, many swimmers earned their fastest times of the season. 
"We're not too disapointed, bt:· cause they're scholarship schools," said McCaffery. 
Freshmen Suzanne Devine and Monica Walker established several new varsity records at Bowling Green, and Stark was pleased with the results of the meet. 
"We had lots of improved times for a losing effort," he said. "If you can look good losing. then we looked good." 
Throughout the season, Devine has played an important role on the team. Teammates explain that team strategy is organized around her, and as a result, her performances are indespensible to the team. 
Tommorow, the team travels to DePauw University for its last dual meet ofthe season. "We should beat DePauw and it will be a good way to end the season," said McCaffery. 
Women 
continuedfrom page 12 
72,last Friday. However, the Red­birds, co-coached by Jill Hutchison and Melinda Fischer, would like to pay back Notre Dame for last year's game. 
Despite losing its leading scorer and rehounder Cathy Boswell, Il­linois State has performed quite well this year. With a 13·5 record and a first-place standing in the Gateway Conference, the Redbirds rely on good outside shooting and strong front-line offense. 
Center Marla Maupin has taken up a good deal of the slack after the loss of Boswell. The 6-2 junior did not see much action against the Irish last year, but she is averaging almost 16 points a game this year, so Notre Dame must keep her away from the basket as much as possible. 
Maupin is not the only person that must be stopped. Senior forward Dawn Hallett has been scoring more than 14 points each gam.:, making her one of four Redbirds scoring in d.)uble figures. Cathy Beesley, tho: other forward, leads the team in as­5ists and steals, as well as scoring 12 points a game. 
The backcourt tandem of Vicki Vaughan and Tammy Turner provide most of the outside shoot­ing, averaging more than 20 points a game between them. They get a little help off the bench from fresh­man Lisa Bruin, but they generally play most ofthe game without rest. 
Ifthere is a major weakness on the Redbird team, it is their lack of depth. Maupin, Hallett, Beesley . Vaughan, and Turner play nearly the entire game. Siill. Hutchison and Fis­cher have gotten the most out ofthe five. 
"On paper, they don't have a great deal of depth," explains DiStanislao, "but their players are great athletes who'll play hard for 40 minutes." 
DiStanislao uses a different style of coaching, using nine or ten players each game. If her fresh substitutes can tire out Illinois State's starting five, then the Irish should be able to hand the Redbirds another loss. 
With an 8-11 record, the Irish can afford little else. 

The Observer 
Record now 12-0 

Fencers take three over weekend 

Wednesday, February 8, 1984-page 10 
NBA Standings 
NBA Eastern Conference Atlantic Division 
w L Pet. GB Boston 38 10 .792 Philadelphia 30 17 .638 7.5 New York 28 18 .609 9 New Jersey 25 24 .510 13.5 Washington 22 26 .458 16 
Central Division Allanta 28 21 .571 Detroit 26 21 .553 1 Milwaukee 26 22 .542 1.5 
Tuesday's Results Chicago 17 28 .378 9 
Washrnglon 95. Houston 92 Cleveland 15 31 .326 11.5 
Detroit 130. Cleveland 99 Indiana 13 33 .283 13.5 
Allanta 109. New Jersey 102 Los Angeles 106, Indiana 105 Western Conference 
Chrcago 104. Philadelphra 89 Midwest Division 
Mrlwaukee 112. Kansas City 110, OT w L Pet. GB 
San Diego 109. Utah 103 Utah 30 18 .625 
Phoenlx138. San Antonio 131 Dallas 25 24 .510 5.5 
Seattle 115, Denver 1 05 Denver 20 28 417 10 
Portland 101. Dallas 85 Houston 20 28 .417 10 San Antonio 20 29 .408 10 5 Kansas City 19 28 .404 10.5 Pacific Division Los Angeles 31 16 .660 Portland 30 20 600 2.5 Seattle 26 20 .565 4.5 Golden State 22 27 .449 10 Phoenix 21 27 .438 10.5 San Diego 16 32 .333 15.5 
COME TO NEW HAMPSHIRE 
FOR THE SUMMER 
C...., CouftMior Po.JUona at·Outstanding Sport. c.m.,. CMip WIMuk" for Bop and Roblndel for Glrta One mile apert. on 22 mile lake. near "On Golden Pond" lite and the Maine coaet. Good salaries 1111d all 
tr1111sportatlon paid. Seek qualified specialists In all areas. PERSONAL INTERVIEWS AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
11AM TQ 7PM ·THURS. FEB. 9 

A 10-week structure group will meet two evenings weekly beginning 
Eating Disorders 
• 
Anorexia Nervosa Feb. 28 on the Notre Dame campus. 

• 
Bulimia SYMPTOMS Note: Not all victims display all symptoms 

•
Abnormal weight loss 

•Refusal 
to eat, except for tiny portions 

•Binge 
eating •vomiting 

•
Abuse of laxatives, diuretics, emetics, or diet pills 

•Denial 
of hunger 

•Excessive 
exercise Distorted body image: see themsleves as 

fat though actually thin •Depression 

•Preoccupation 
with food 

•
Absent of irregula~ menstruation in women 




By MICHAEL). CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
Over the past weekend, the Notre 
Dame men's fencing team increased 
its record to 12-0 and the women's 
team improved its record to 9-2 as 
both teams went undefeated in An­
gola. 
The men, who kept a winning 
strt·ak alive that currently has therr 
undefeated in their last 19 meets, 
downed Wisconsin-Parkside, 25-2, 
Tri-State, 24-3. and Cleveland State, 
21·6. 
In the sabre, the Irish have 
boosted their record to I01-14. 
junior captain Mike janis, who went 
5-0 on Saturday ( 26-I on the 
season), improved his lifetime 
record to I01-22 ( .821 winning per­
centage) which places him fifth on 
tht· all-time Irish sabre list. 
Sophomore John Edwards con­
tinued his unbeaten streak over the 
wet·kend as he improved his season 
mark to 20-0. 
Presently, all sabre men on the 
Irish squad have records at or above 
the .500 mark ( Don Johnson, 17-4, 
Kevin Stoutermire, 15-5, Tony Con­
soli. 13-2. Mike Bathon, R-1, and 
Sean Reardon. 2-1 ). 
Junior captain Andy Quaroni (23­
1 on the season) led the epee squad 
to a 22-S trouncing ofthe three Irish 
opponents on Saturday. Quaroni, 
who is 86-1 5 lifetime ( .851 ) is cur­
rently fourth on the all-time Irish 
epee list. 
The young epeeists have been gaining confidence and notability while winning consistently. Led by sophomore Brian St. Clair ( 18-5, 4-0 over the weekend) and freshman john Haugh ( 16-2, 4-1 over the weekend). the squad has improved its record to 92-23. 
"Our young fencers have made us 
a good team," commented Irish 
head coach Mike DeCicco. "Brian St. 
Clair and John Haugh have been 
pkasant surprises." 
Another young and impressive 
group is the foil squad led by fresh-
Miami 
continuedfrom page 12 
Fkming( I 18-pounds) shuuing out 
his opponent, 6-0. 
At I 26. the Irish were fort:t:d to wrestle frt.·shman Carlllildinger up a class from his usual I 18 since regular starter Mark Fischer was in· dligihk because he was overweight. Hildingt.·r lost the hout. 13-'i. 
Notre Dame also suffered losses in 
the l.H. 142. l'iO. and 16/ weight 
classes, with the losses in the ISO 
and 16/ divisions coming as 1 
surprises to Tmh-Fejel. 
Kevin Stavely-O'Carroll wrestled 
for tht· Irish at I 'iO. lie will finish out 
the season li>r junior.John Carncsale, 
who is out for the season. Stavdy· 
O'Carroll held his match dost.· until 
the third pt.·riml. hut tinally lost. 8-·-t 
"lie didn't have the spark tontght," commented Toth-Fejd. "lie just didn't believe in his ability. lie also needs to g<.·t in shape ti>r the third period." 
Sophomore john Krug wrestled at 167 and lost 6-2. Krug's two points l'ame in the third pniod after he was shut .out in the first two periods. 
Two other Irish wins camt· from juniors Baty and Louis Carnesale. Baty, with a perfect 12-0 dual meet record, edged his Miami opponent, 8-5. 
"I was really surprised that Phil had such a wugh time with his op­pont·nt," said Toth-Fejcl. 
Louis Carnesale, 10-2 in dual meets, providt.·d the three other Notre Damc points with an 8-3 win after kading at the end of each pniod. 
A wt.·ekend trip is in store for the Irish. who will travel to Illinois to compt•tt' in the \X'heaton Invitation­al Tournament on Friday ami Satur· day. 

man Charles Higgs-Coulthard ( 6-0 on Saturday). Higgs-Coulthard is un­defeated in his last 30 bouts and is 32-1 on the season (with the most victories on the team). Sophomore Mike VanderVelden was 3-0 on Saturday, boosting his record to 20­3, and senior captain Chris Grady scored an impressive 8-0 mark to move his record over .500 at 11-8. 
"Charles Higgs-Coulthard has been spectacular in the foil (and) Mike VanderVelden has been consis­tent," commented DeCicco. "I can't say enough about the sabre squad. We have talented starters and tremendous depth. The sabre squad could be as good as any in the country." 
The women's squad,undefeated in its last 5 meets, downed Wisconsin-Parkside with more touches scored. They also heat Tri-State, 13·3, and Clevdand State, 9-7. 
Freshman Pia Albertson leads the 
rJ"J"J"~J"/"J"/"J"~~J"J"~J"J"J"/".JCO""'J"J"J"....c:o""J.::r.r...r~...o-".......... 
$  
~  
1 §§I  Music ComP.etition March 2, 1984 Cash Prizes  s ~ I§I  
~  Applications Due Feb. 17  §  

la:!~~.....~~~~~~.!.~=~;~~!J · 
Pink Floyd's THE WALL at Chautauqua 
Wed. Feb. 8 Thurs. Feb. 9 7,9,11 Adm: S1 
squad with a 19-2 record (5-1 over the weekend). 
Also impressive have been senior co-captainsSharonDiNicola(16-11, 4-2) and Mary Shilts ( 14-9, 3-2 ), sophomore Janet Sullivan ( 14-7, 2­2 ), and freshman Cindy Weeks ( 10­4, 3-1 ). 
Saturday, the Irish men will return home after three consecutive meets on the road to face Chicago, Detroit, Ohio State, Purdue, Case Western Reserve, Washington, and the defending national champs, Wayne State. 
"We've been building all season long toward this meet with Wayne State," commented DeCicc!). "We're fencing well right now and I believe that we'll give them all the competi­tion they want." 
The meet will begin at 9 a.m. Saturday in the Fieldhouse at the Notre Dame Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. 
1 
A Reminder that the Deadline for Nominating a Senior Student for the 
Distinguished Student Award 
lS 

Friday, February 17 
Created and presented by the Notre Dame Alumni Association, the award recipient will be selected based on service to Notre Dame, community involvement and good academic standing. 
Nomination forms are available in the Student Government Office in LaFortune, the Center for Social Concerns or the Alumni Office (201 Admin. Bldg.) 
---------.l 

~4CJt.:llC3L~--------------------------------------·W•e•d•n•e•sd~a~y~,F~e~b~r~u~ary~8~,~1~9B~4~z~p~ag~e~l-l
.. 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 
HfUO? Cf)JNI'I ~Yi' Ye5, IW GCrII 600f C1' A 



Hl5 HE/lV.
5011 HERE WIKJ Ct.Aifl\5 


OOT ANY 
W Be Gf?IW,.YINJUR6fl. 

NE-W ONeS! 
MY I 
\ ;<\~ 


Garfield Jim Davis 

Guindon Richard Guindon 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
Campus 
•3:30 
p.m. -Computer Minicourse, Introduc­tion to Displaywriter, 115 CCMB 

•4:20 
p.m. Physics Colloquium, "Monopoles," Dr. A. P. Balachandran, 118 NSH 

•4:30 
p.m. -Chemistry Seminar, "Photophysics in Spread Mono~ayers at Air-Water Interface," Dr. Larry K Patterson, 123 ~SH 

•4:30 
p.m. Microbiology Seminar, "Monoclonal Antibodies as Probes of Membrane Protein Strucfure," Dr. Phillip E. Klebba, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Election Workshop, for current Judi­cial Council, 124 Hayes Healy 

•7 
and 9:15p.m.-Film, "Johnny Got His Gun," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns, 51 

•7 
p.m. -CUnic Series, "How to Practice Natural Family Planning,''-Mr. and Mrs Bettcher, Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Campus Ministry, $35 per couple 

•7 
p.m. -Film, "Seven Chances," O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ice Hockey, ND Men vs Lake Forest, ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, ND Women vs Illinois State, ACC 

•7:30 
p.m. -Slide Show I Lecture, followed by general Amnesty International meeting, CSC Cof­fee house 


TV Tonight 
"Hi! I've just played my motivational tapes so I figured I'd hit on you." "Vernon! That light! ... The Jeffersons' dog is back!" The Daily Crossword 41 Certain 48 Wide awake road 50 EntreatyACROSS 37 Actor's 61 Lend­11 Apt 42 -or 51 Toobad!1 Menu part (take heed) 12 Drenched nothing 53 Due6 More 38 Prickly 62 An Astaire 44 Sp. hero 54 Rue-Paix peculiar 13 Auto parts plant 63 Mass. cape 55 Indian 11 Joker 18 Be in front 39 On the deep 45 Mountain64 Baking Ocean gulf 14 Fugitive's 23 Grain40 Where Dover valleyitem 58 Chemical name is: abbr. 46 Rope65 City on the ending 41 Demon 47 FeloniousMeuse 59"-Kapi·15 Way 25 Coos Bay's 42 Common firing tal"16 Wind state: abbr. contraction DOWNdirection 26 Char1 Crowcalls17 Satisfied 43 Harangue 27 Wag2 To shelter Tuesday's Solution 19 Mauna­45 Jackson of 28 -da caccia 3 Stream20 Vend films 29 Polite in 4 Embellished A 8 U T .A s c 0 L A R 21 Sunrise 46 Bilbo's speech r•A L 0 N 8 0 0 N E •r I N E locale relative 30 Sightlessyam48 Nazimova G A D S T A N D31 Hollow5 Sixth sense S S M E A 22 Kind of A R E ~-R R E D 49 Disinte· stemletters _-R A V E S I 0 I ­heater grate 33 Algonquian6 Nymph of IF A L ~'T E R E o•r EN U R E 24 Amphibian 50 Wan 35 -offmountains ARE R•N 0 T26 Piles (repel) ~.!!.-.D52 Musical 7 "-the MIA C H S-E G 0 27 Poltroon 36-Morganapassage Romans..." AIN CE.HEM E N 30 Slight *i­38 Coffin R E D DE N.A T T E M P T S56 Inquire 8 Pulverizedindication platform A L I T R A I L ••57 Describing earth ••• c 0 R N I C E .A R R D8 Aa beauty 9 Summerin U N DC p I E D.A Y I N32 Poplar queen Sevres 39 Long E L S E I 0 D E •r E N D33 Lucid 60 Klndof 10 Mars, for disfance Dy E R i:s s E D •e D D Y 34 Switch sign dance one starter  7p.m. 16 MASH 22 PM Magazine 28 Joker's Wild 34 Contemporary Health Issues 7:30p.m. 16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud ;:,s ·Wheel ofFortune 34 Straight Talk 8p.m. 16 Real People 22 Domestic Life 28 1984 Winter Olympics 34 National Geographic 8:30p.m. 22 Empire 9p.m. 16 Facts of Life 22 Wednesday Night Movie u9:30p.m. 16 Night Court Op.m. 16 St. Elsewhere llp.m. 16 NewsCenter I 6 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Indiana Lawmakers 11:30p.m. 16 Tonight Show 22 Police Story I CBS Late Movie 28 lbicke ofthe Night ©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 2/8/84All Rights Reserved  
........... --­Student Union takes you to... ~~~  WEDNESDAY  
Ff.LAUDERDALE ~~~ 7 nights at Sheraton Yankee Trader $199 Round trip Motor Coach $90 ---------------------TotalPackage $289 Plus many more activities and excursions!  BEER SPECIAL  
For more info, caD NDSU at 239-7757 •l''"~~ .$50 DEPOSIT due FRI., feb. 10 at SU Ticket OfficeI Record Store!!!  Sat feb 11th Undergrad Night ·THE LAW  Sat. Feb 25th Par Three Band  


strong performanc:e tonight from Bob Thebeau as the Lake Forest. For more on the game, which will start at Irish try to avenge the only loss oftheir season against 7:30 in the ACC, see Ed Domansky's story below. 
Hockey team looks for revenge as Lake Forest comes to ACC tonight 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
Tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the ACC, 
the Notre Dame hockey team will 
seek to avenge its only defeat this 
season. The Irish play host to Divi­
sion II varsity opponent Lake Forest, 
the team that, on January 25, 
hrought an end to the impressive 1 5­
game winning streak hy taking a 9-6 
decision. 
In that last encounter, the Fores­
ters took advantage of Notre Dame's 
lack of intensity to grab a quick 3-0 
lead in the early going. An Irish rally 
gave them a 6-5 lead after two 
pc:riods, but four unanswered Lake 
Forest goal~ in the final stanza led to 
the Notre Dame demise. 
Now 19·1·0 overall, the Notre Dame team has started a new win­ning streak which now stands at four games. The Irish swept series with two Central States Collegiate Hock­ey league opponents since the loss, routing Marquette this past weekend and Iowa State the weekend before. In the last four games, Notre Dame has outscored its oppc>sition by a 29· 1 3 margin. 

"Since the loss we've realized that we must always be ready to play,'' says co-captain Brent Chapman. "We're really looking forward to playing Lake Forest again so that we can show them who is the better 
team." 

Lake Forest comes into tonight's contest with a somewhat deceiving 9-8-1 record. The Foresters are a re~-pected Division II power with an aggressive style of play that makes them a tough obstacle for any op· ponent. 
Back in December, the Irish took two 5·2 victories from Lake Forest in a home-and-home series. 
Notre Dame currently holds a 6-1 advantage in the string of meetings 
between the schools that dates back 
to the 1969 season. 
"Lake Forest has a fine team," says Head Coach Lefty Smith. "Sometimes we become a bit too lackadaisical so we've been working on forechecking and on solidifying our defensive play." 
In a lineup change for Notre Dame, Tim Reilly moves up to play right wing on the first line with Chapman and Adam Parsons. Mike Metzler is now at right wing on the second line with Jeff Badalich and Steve Ely. 
In a defensive switch, Mark Ben­ning and Tony Bonadio will now make one pair, while Greg Duncan will skate with Rob Ricci. 
Tim Lukenda is listed as the prob­able starter in the Irish goal. He has a 
2.50 goals against average and a I 0­1-0 record on the season. 

Dlinois State tonight 

Women look to turn year around 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports Bdtlor 
If there was one game that could be described as a turning point for the Notre Dame women's basketball team last season, it was Notre Dame's exciting 48-47 win over Il­linois State at Normal, Ill. 
When Laura Dougherty hit a jum­per from the foul line with less than ten sen>nd'l remaining in the game, the Irish got .the big boost that allowed them to win their last seven 


Injuries a factor 

games and come close to gaining a pc>st-season tournament bid. 
Tournament bids are out of the question for this year's team, which has stumbled to an 8-11 record, but the season is not lost yet. A hot streak at the end of the year would help out next year's team immensely and would win back a gooo deal of respect for this year's squad. 
With Illinois State visiting the ACC tonight at 7:30, Mary DiStanis· lao is hoping that her players can once again gain some momentum and close out the year in a good man­ner. 
''I'm not totally unhappy with the way things are going now, but this week is a good chance to put it to­gether," says DiStanislao. "We play very good Illinois State and Vil­lanova teams this week so it's a very important week." 
The Irish would like to get back on the winning track after losing a tough game at Michigan State, 73· 
see WOMEN, page 9 

Miami romps over ND wrestlers 
ByJOE BRUNETII 
Sports Writer 
Captain Phil liaty said they would he very good. Coac:h Tihamer Toth· Fejel said after the: dual meet that he had expeL·ted them to he vt:ry good. Were thL·y good? Yes, Miami ofOhio was very good. 
·nu· score wasn't t:ven close, as Miami swamped the Irish wrestlt:rs last night, 29·9, at Notrt: Damt:. However, twclvt: of Miami's points camt: ht: default. 

In the 190-pound class; junior Matt Stamm rcinjured a knt:e in the first pt:riod of his match and was forced to disc:ontinue. Stamm was filling in for George Logsdon, who has pneumonia and will he out for tht: st:ason. 
"Right now l hope: we can patch up Matt for tht: rt:st of the: season," said Toth-Fejd. 
Six Miami points came because tht: Irish could not t:nter Mikt: Golic in the heavyweight class. Tht: junior has torn ligaments in his shoulder, which have been bothering him sinct: football season. He hopt:s to wrt:stle nt:xl Tuesday against Illinois State at home, but he is mort: con­ct:rned about being ready for tht: NCAA Rt:gionals. 
"I just need to try to gel in shape for Regionals," said Golic. "I haven't bt:t:n able to wrestle, so I'm running every day." 
The night started on a bright note for the Irish with freshman Grt:g 
see MIAMI, page 10 

Wednesday, February 8, 1984-page 12 
Ir_ish prepared to bid 'The Coach' farewell 
Chuck Freeby 
Sports Writer 
it

-:-:;:­
Irish Items , ~ 
~......... ..~--~~-~--.. ' 
Hdlo again, everybody! 
This week is "showtime" for Digger Phdps and tht: Fighting Irish, as they will play two games before important audienct:s. Tomorrow night, the Irish make the first oftwo visits to the New York area wht:n tht:y takt: on Rutgt:rs at tht: Mt:adowlands. Then, on Saturday after· noon, CBS will tdevist: to a nationwide audience the clash ht:twet:n the Irish and Ray Meyer's second-ranked DcPaulliluc: Demons. 
How important is this week for tht: Irish cagers? Well, while the trip to tht: New York area may not carry as much weight as it did in the era before college basketball inundatt:d tht: networks, an im­pressive win ovt:r Rutgers in front ofthe New York writers could not hurt the Irish in tht:ir st:arch for an NCAA bid. Of course, with tht: nation's eyes focused on Notre Dame on Saturday, a win over the Blue Dt:mons would really impress the tournament committee. So, in answer to tht: question, this week is extremely important, and Phelps will have the Irish ready: 
"The Coach" Bids Adieu ... Unless you have been out of the country for a while, you have undoubtedly heard this will be tht: final year of coaching for Dt:P.ml mt:ntor Ray Meyer. The 70-yt:ar old Mcyt:r holds clost: ties to Notrt: Dame, whert: ht: captained George: Kt:ogan's basketball squads during tht: 1936-37 and 1937-38 cam­paigns. 
In 1942, Meyer became head coach at DePaul, and ht: has been there ever since. In his 42nd season at the helm ofthe Blue Demons, Meyer has compiled a 714-352 record, giving him more wins than any other major collegt: coach. 
Countless tributes to Meyer have already been made, and tht:y have bet:n composed much bt:tter than anything that could be said here. let it suffice to say college basketball will miss Ray Meyer, and it would bt: appropriate to bid him a fond fart:wt:ll when his name is announced Saturday afternoon. 
Regarding Rutgers ••. Coach Tom Young's Scarlet Knights arc a small and young club -two factors which don't help much when you play teams such as St. John's, Michigan, and Notre Damt:. Last yearJ the Knights compikd a 23-8 mark, but tht: record has dipped to 8-11 this season. 
Nevertheless, Rutgers could givt: the Irish some problems. Junior guardJohn Battle is a dang'lrous player, averaging 21.1 points a con· test, and could give Notre Damt: fits. Backcourt mate Brian Ellerlx: and forward Chris Remley also hovt:r near the double figure platt:au and will have to bt: controlkd. 
Overall, the size and depth ofNotrt: Dame should prevail, hut the Irish proved last weekend that anytim~ they go on the road, it's an adventure. A key factor to note: Diggt:r Phelps is 0-3 in the Meadowlands, and he badly wants to break that string this year. Hopefully, the Irish will not be outduelt:d by the Scarlt:t Knights and fall to 0-4. 
DemonDoings ...This is stop number three in what Meyer calls "Holy Week" for his DePaul team, as tht:y play St.John's, St.Jost:ph's (Pa.), Notre Dame, and Loyola in an 11-day stretch. With the talent on his team, though, Meyer hasn't had to spend a lot of time at tht: Grotto. True, DePaul has not played well evt:ry time they've taken the floor, but they have just lost their first game last night to St. Joe's. 
The 17-1 Blue Demons love to run, and the man who makes them go is Kenny Patterson. Pattt:rson, whose 30-foot bucket at the buzzer beat the Irish last year, runs the attack from tht: point and has plt:nty offine folks to whom he can dish off his assists. One ofthose players is 6-6 forward Tyrone COrbin, who kads the team in scoring with a 
14.0 average. Otht:r Demons to watch are explosive forward Kevin Holmes, and talented freshman Dallas Comegys, who comes off the bench to swat shots into pt:p band tubas. 
This team also plays grt:at defense, so look for a game with tht: score in the 40's or 50's. The Irish will havt: to play a great game, but maybe Digger can find one more "moment" to give the funs. 
IrishAche .•. Skip Mcyer'straining room looks like he took out a branch office oftht: infirmary. The Irish art: feeling some ofthe aches and pains of a long season, as two starters misst:d Monday'sgame against Vt:rmont. Tim Kt:mpton has an injury to his tibia (that's a bone in the lower leg for those of us who art:n't prt:·mt:d ), and tht: Irish staff is beingcareful not to have him turn it into a strt:s.'i fracture. Meanwhile, jo)o Buchanan continues to he plagued by tendonitis, and Jim Dolan is hampered by bursitis in his big toe. 
Pick of the Week ... Engarde! Yes, folks, this week's pick in· volves tht: hottest team on campus in its biggest meet of tht: year. Coach Mike DeGcco's Irish fencers will play host to six tt:ams including dcft:nding national champion Wayne State in a mct:t begin· ning at 9:00a.m. in tht: north dome ofthe ACC. 
For those of you who have nt:ver seen a fencing meet, i1 will not involvt: a bunch of folks who look like Errol Flynn running around and jumping on furniture. This is a sport that involvt:s gn·at preci· sion, and the Waynt: State Tartars (that's what they're called) and the Irish art: two oftht: bt:st squads in colkgiate fencing. 
As mentioned earlier, the action starts at9:00 a.m., but if you want to st:e the Irish put their l 9-mt:el winning streak on tht: lint: against Waynt: Statt:, that matchup will takt: plact: at 7:30 p.m., aftt:r tht" DePaul game. Come on out to the ACC Fieldhouse and (art: you ready for this?) watch the Irish try to make Tartar sauct·. 




