------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. 

VOL XVIll, NO. 130 thc imkpcmknt ~tmknt m:w~papcr .,crYing notrt dame and ...aint man··., TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1984 
e 
Is over 
Committee bans private parties, sets penalties for drunkenness 
By KEITH HARRISON. JR. The policy also states that the first than expected because the lhiver­Senior StaffReporter instance of physical violence while sity wanted to give the Board of the student is intoxicated will be Tmstees time to react. The final 
Notre: Damc's new alcohol policy, considered sufficient grounds for draft of the policy was completed relc:a..~ed last night, eliminates expulsion from the University. just before Spring Break. Beauc­partic:s and happy hours in dorm "The students do not consider hamp had previously set April 1 as rooms and forbids undcrage stu· drunkenness an act that requires dis­the release date for the report. 
dents to attcnd parties in hall social ciplinary measures," said Beauc­The report was presented to hall spaccs where alcohol is served. hamp. "This attitude must change." rectors last night. 
"Student cooperation is essential The policy states: "It is not Under the new policy, all parties in this policy," said Father William uncommon for college-age students in student rooms, including those in Beauchamp, chairman of the Com­which no alcohol is served, will be 
mittee on the: Responsible Use ofAl­forbidden. The exact defmition of a
Excerpts from the new alcohol 
cohol. "Otherwise:, it is very likely party has not been determined, al­
policy appear on page 5. 
that the campus will go dry. Those though "a party will probably be arcn't my words; those: are Father defined a..~ any gathering of more llcsburgh's." to declare that there is nothing than four people, or twice the num­
Beauchamp said there is wrong with being drunk as long as ber of people a..o;signed to a suite," "nobod}•" to whom student leaders one does not do physical damage to said Beauchamp. can appeal the policy. which will go oneselfor others. "The whole party scene leads to into dfcct next fall. "The party in the residence: hall alcohol abuse;· said Beauchamp. "So 
The policy also contains addition· has become the standard social we've got to eliminate it." al disciplinary guidelines for public event on the campus. Wcekend after Alcohol may continue to be drunkenness. The first time a stu­weekend students have come to cx· served in parties that take place in dent becomes dmnk. he or she will pect there will be a party in their hall hall party rooms, so long as all be subject to punishment from the or some other residence hall on attending the party are at least 21 hall rector. With the second in­campus. The attitude has developed years ofage. stance, the student will be reported among the students that ifthere is no Also, alcohol may be served at all­to the dean of students. Continuing party to attend, there is nothing to hall semi-formal parties. The report violations, according to the policy, do on campus." states that such events "create an at­"should be: considere-d reason for Beauchamp said last night that the 
see PARTY, page 4 
dismissal from.the Univcrsity." alcohol policy was released later 
Former Radiation Lab worker threatens to sue 
ByJEFF HARRINGTON non-University w<>rk for Schuler's socially oriented activities. matter." She added, "Personnel mat­same time. Asked about her relation· and PAUL McGINN wife. Leonard Campanale, Cagle's attor­ters are always confidential; that's ship with Cagle, Mrs. Schuler said, Senior StaffReporters Marilyn Cagle, who was taken off ney, in an April 12 letter to Assistant just standard procedure." "Just a moment," and deferred com­
the University payroll Jan. 15, said Director of Personnel Terry Wilkin, Problems between Cagle and Mrs. ment to her husband. 
A former secretary to Radiation that Florence Schuler, on Dec. 2, said a complaint for "damages khuler have arisen "offand on since Declining to talk about specifics Laboratory Director Robert Schuler 1983, told Cagle to solicit funds for against the University by reason of \larch 1983," according to Cagle. of the case, Dr. Schuler said, has threatened to sue the University office parties and cur out duck­(Cagle's) recent unlawful and un­'·Instructions were coming directly "Personnel is the one that took the because she claims she was wrong· shaped invitations to a baby shower warranted discharge" would be filed rom Dr. Schuler's wife (which) action, so I think they have to be fully discharged after refusing to du for an employee's wife, among other unless the University contacts the at­jealt primarily with social activities. responsible."­



Leourdv. uapuale
__.........,
-...e,at&.aw 
r::ut~~NI.u-b a~rut-r.o.-.::.• 
Mlsu..b,bldlua ..... 
.lprll u. 1914 
llbi~ity of Rotra n­llotra n-. I:ad1.aaa 46556 
bo Cqla va. lllrl:ftrdty of l'lotra D­
.lttlu 11r. Terry G. VilldD .Uaut•t lltrac1:01' of ParaOIIDal 
t:.Dtl-· 
lira, x.rtl,... .l. Cqla hu .,......S ehe Mnicaa of thia office far tha paqooaa of pur11111D1 M1' clata for ~a apilult tile Ullift1'aity 'by .,...Oil of her racaat •lawful ....t ...........u.t 4Ucharp &c. her fon.r .,.tOJMDt which, buidaa 'rtaiUna M1' with .,.,.t...,. ~pa, baa 
-•her ..,..t diatraaa. 
Acco'l'lliDily, lt 1a augeatecl that a npnaantatiw &c. 70"1' 11111.,...a1ty coatact thia office 1D cOIIII&CUoa with lira. Cqla'a clata 1D thia ilulc-ca to the -.s that the a--.y be properly md fairly raaolved. 
IJDlua nch coauct 1a .ada within tea (10) daya f1'011 dau, a c-laiDt for ~pa will be~d apiDat ,...... 
V...y'truly ,:,._a, 
L~~~· 
U011A1D V. CAHPAIIAIJI 
L9Co... 
ceo lira. Karil,... A. Cagle 
torney within 1 0 days. As of last '\.mong these tasks was the routine Schuler denied that his wife ever night, Cagle said she had received no solicitation ofcontributions relating acted in his name to organize func­word from the Universiry. o those social events, which in it­tions and collect money, adding that 
Wilkin yesterday told The Ob­:;elf, is against University policy." he did not authorize his wife to as­seroer that the University "did not When Cagle refused to perform sign work to Cagle. sever" the employer/employee he work, she said Mrs. Schuler told Schuler declined to comment relationship between Notre Dame .ter, "I have direct orders from my about his Dec. 5 conversation with and Cagle, adding, "We continued to .msband that you are to drop every· Cagle, saying "I think that's a private search for another job for her." thing and do this." matter." 
Although Cagle has been off the Dr. Schuler was at a conference in After her conversation with Dr. University payroll since January, Canada at the time ofthe incident. Schuler, Cagle said she met with Wilkin declined to discuss whether When he returned from the con­Wilkin who told her that she wa..o; "an she was actually fired. ference Dec. 5, Cagle says Dr. employee of good standing" and 
Wilkin said the University has Schuler asked her "to explain my be­would be kept on the payroll until a tried to reassign Cagle to another havior on Friday (Dec. 2)." comparable position was found for position at Notre Dame, but "my "I told him I had deadlines to meet her. Cagle also said Wilkin offered perception is she is not interested in and if there was any problem, we her a job a..~ a manuscript typist but University employment." should get together and talk about told her, ''I'd advise you not to take 
"Why hasn't she gotten another it," said Cagle . ;t." job on campus? What we have not Cagle, who now works as a Referring to efforts to relocate seen is any motivation at all by her," secretary with the Saint jqseph Cagle:, Wilkin said, ''I'll not talk about he said. County Housing Allowance Office, any details of the particular case." 
Cagle said the sole position of­added that Dr. Schuler told her, He said he did not know how many fered by the University a "When my wife tells you anything, job referrals personnel made on her manuscript typist -would involve she is speaking for me." behalf. a cut in pay. Reached via telephone in Cagle said she received only one 
Wilkin declined to comment on jerusalem, Israel, last night, Dr. call from a prospective department, any specifics concerning the Cagle Schuler said he was "hardly in any but told an interviewer at the psy­case, stating, "I am not in a position position to make any response since chology department, "Until I could to talk ... about a pendinglegal mat­I don't know what the facts are. I 'Je assured there would be a person­ter. I'm not going to say anything have not heard anything on it from tel department that would protect that would interfere with that legal the University, so I am in no position the worker. I would find it very hard perspective." to say anything." to return." 
Assistant University Counsel Mrs. Schuler, who has been with Believing she had received an un­
Copy of the letter advising the University that former Radiation Patricia Lyons said she "wouldn't her husband on a business trip in favorable review from Wilkin, Cagle Laboratory secretary Marilyn Cagle will file suit unless a Notre Dame want to respond (to the threat of jerusalem the past few weeks, spoke 
see LAWSUIT, page 3
representative contacts her lawyer, Leonard Campanale, by Sunday. suit) because it involves a personnel to The Observer via telephone at the 


The Obserwr Tuesday, April17, 1984-page 2 


Administration absurdity is 
In Brief ·· 
$32,410 worth ofpledges were collected in the phon-a-thon for the Women's Care Center which concluded last week. Most of the pledges were S'; and S I 0 gifts but some were as large S';OO and S 1.000. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students donated S3,'70() of the total amount. During the three-week pledge drive approximately 4,';00 South Bend residents were called. Other than cash pledges, the phon-a-thon contacted employers who of­fert·d to employ the pregnant women, counselors, people to donate labor services, doctors and nurses who volunteered services and donations ofmaternity and baby clothing. -The ObsenJer 
The Notre Dame Bandwm present their St. cecilia Award for outstanding contributions to the Catholic band move­ment to Dr. Harry lkgian, recently retired director of bands at the University of Illinois. The award will he made at the annual banquet April 29. Degian received undergraduate and master's degrees at Wayne State University and a doctorate at the University of Michi­gan. Currently he is president ofthe American Bandmasters' Associa­tion. The St. Cecilia Award is presented at selected times to a man or woman who has demonstrated musical skills during a career of service and entertainment. It is named for the patroness of music. ­
The Ohseruer 
"Theology of Ministry," by Father Thomas O'Meara. professor of theologr at Notre Dame, has recently been puhlished hy Paulist Press. During the last two decades thousands of Christians have altered the communal structures of their churches hy assuming and expanding roles formerly held by priests, vowed religious, and Protestant ministers. The phenomenon, O'Meara writes, "suggests that the Holy Spirit is intent upon a wider service, a more diverse ministry for a church life that will be broader in quan­tity and rkher in quality." O'Meara, who joined Notre Dame's theol­ogy faculty in 19H I, he has published several books and articles on theologr. philosophy, Church history and ecclesiology. -The Ob­sen•er 
Revenge over drug dealings may have led gunmen to murder two women and eight children in their Brooklyn apartment. leaving the victims on sofas and chairs like figures in a "wax museum," police said yesterday. A crying 11-month-old baby, Christina Perez, found crawling among the corpses was the only survivor ofthe Sunday afternoon massacre. There apparently was no panic or struggle. Lactose, a milk sugar used to cut heroin, and foil wrappings normally used to wrap narcotics were found in the apart­ment, police said, but added that the evidence pointed to "street stuff, small stuff," not a major operation. Murdering children is a revenge tactic used by the Colombian drug world as a reprisal against adults, said Patrick Murphy, first deputy police commis­sioner. No weapons were recovered and there are no suspects at this time. -AP 
Of Interest 
Two Japanese University students wm 
discuss the merits of trade barriers with the V.S. during a public debate with two Notre Dame debate team members tonight at 8. The discussion in Washington Hall is co-sponsored by the Debate and Speech Council and the Friends of the Library and is open to the public. -The Observer 
"The MIA Situation in Indochina" wm be discussed in a lecture this afternoon at S in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Kt"ith Cogdell, Indiana state chairman for the National League of Families, is the speaker for the event which is sponsored by the Arnold Air Society. -The ObsenJer 

Weather 
' 
Hoosier Spring Returns! Breezy and very cool today with a ';0 percent chance oflight rain. lligh in the mid 40s. Cloudy and a bit cooler tonight with a 40 percent l'hance of light rain. Low in mid 30s. Cloudy tomorrow with highs in upper 40s. -AP 

The Observer 
The Observer ( l 'SPS ~9\1 l-·1000) b puhli•ht·d Monday through Friday and on home." fomball Saturday~. ex<:ept during: t·xam and vacation p<:riod~. The Observer i> puhli•hed h)· tht· student• of till" l'nin·rsll)' of Nrurc l>ame and Saint Mary's Collt-gt·. Subscriptions may he purt·hased for Sl~ pt·r year ( S I~ pt•r ~c.·mc.·stc.·r) h\ writing The Observer. 1'.0 Box Q, Notre I>amt'.lndiana 46~~6 
The Observer is a mt·mht·r ofThe As­sociated Press. All n·pnKim:lion ri~hb an· rt'!'tt·rvc.·d 
The Observer 
,,. 0.-w•• '' '""' ....,.__,, ........._ publollWd IJy '"" ll..dltnll "' ,.,..
UN-•·•• ,,..,,,,, ~"" l .. 6"d s-• M•••• Con•cr-""""'not~""''''' 
r•lltlliiiMtjM>I>i:...OIIIMI-trat.....DII•U... ontTIIU!oOnlllf.,..UotrfPQI'II>IIn fl<... f/fly !K>IlU\Ibltch-fft-..Dif Unt'\1-l>dll()lofltlf~'"""' IIMIOl'II'IOf\ ol • m•t<•hly ol 11141 Elloi<Joof• a.,.,ct Coftltn4tnii"H llll!fllfM In• ln.,ct. CoiWOin 11/fMnl ""'•-toiiiWol •wl/'loolt (olvfnn-(f<ll•lolabii!Dtli -rn~<lo;llll>tl 
'""'""'"''''""',.""'•..-ol•t•Y"'90JO"'oonlonr•m~u-t""""~"''"'''
.·. ~··:":-·~-...... -.......... -.... ­
Design Editor......................... Chris Bowler Dt•slgn Assistcmt...................John Menncll layout Staff....................... Sharon Markert 
Stacey Pruncsti 7)•pesel/ers ...................... Billllighduchcck 
Michelle Fanro News EtlittJr ........................... Amy Stephan Copy EdiiCJr....... . .............. Mark Potter Sports Copv Editor.............. Marc Ramirez Vi<•upolntlayout ..................... Paul Bruce ND Day Editor ................... Melinda Moore .\MC Da)• Eelit I or........ Maggie O'Connell Ad Design .....................................jean Euch l'botograpber....... . ....... Lev Chapclsky 7)•pist.. . .............................. Ellen Malloy .\.lotman ...................................St~vc Foster 
Editorial Board 
~rloiQI "' ('~,., BotY....U.O,._,. 0.Yfi..CIII lo""•f·~l11ot01 M~••WQra.;~ Maup.oli'Wf,...
~~~~~:i!lolmQ•• 
(oK~I·•• fl1•1111 ""''Q.... ~011...... Al1..<111111ll'"'"',..._ 
~..... ,11•101 S.oflo>ialftdl""' J'!~:'o'"::
s,.,,,.,,.,.,,.P..,C..rwlfiiOIIM.,,.g.. ....... ,,••QI 
O.n~>'<C...•II•II\I" ll."'onWUh­
~""AI••rtfrM<>< lo~""Mo~•••r•t• 
SpolttfdoiDI 
"''~""' l'••lll•••n
v,.,.,.,m,tl11101 [l~v•Ci•<llt 
, ....... fl11... ......,,.,.,, Founded Nov•mber 3, 1968 "'""''1<1<>• ···--~ ...., 



hidden by too-serious leaders 
Student Government doesn't have to be stuffy The University has t1nally announced that the drink­ing age next year will be, for all practical purposes, 21. 
That was not a surprising announcement, although it would have been nice if it had been released a little earlier. Deadlines arc only for students, ofcourse. Even so, there was no outcry over withheld information and the students' right to know. The administration could have waited until summer to release the new policy. 
But, just to be nice, they waited until right before vacation to announce it. That way, they are covered from accusations ofsending a "Dear Student" letter, but hope to prevent any organized outcry in the two days before break. Maybe students will forget during Easter. Last semester they did the same thing with the food sales; many students didn't even realize they had been shut down until they came back to school in january. 
Will the students raise any organized objection to the new policy, or will a long 
In the giddy celebration which followed, students climbing on the team's rented TRANSPO buses did S824.7S in damage. 
A few weeks later, the University billed student government for the damages. Burke thought this was ridiculous -it was-and decided to make a joke ofthe whole matter by asking students to donate 12 cents to defray the cost. He also suggested that any excess be placed in a fund, should such a thing ever happen again. It hasn't, by the way. 
This is, admittedly, a silly way of hat~dling the issue. But it worked, or so Burke maintained. Student govern­ment did not pay the bill. 
What is needed is to show, once again, how absurd the administration really is. If they want to ban lofts, start a campaign to ban bunk beds as well. At the very least, bars should be put around the upper bunk. Maybe restraining straps could be installed for added safety. The straps would be doubly useful, since they could be used before parietals by creative Domers to do things 
All new Counsellne tapes!  
3 Types of Intimacy 4 Physicallntimacy 5 Fighting Constructively 6 Expressing Negative Thoughts and Feelings 20 Female Homosexuality 21 Male Sexuality 34 Increasing Self-Awareness 36 The Value and Use of Self-Talk 40 Male Sex Roles-Changes and Stresses 70 Infatuation or Love 84 Death and Dying 411 Contracts in Intimate Relationships 412 Examples of Contract Building  
CALL:239-7793 Hours: 4~10 Mon-Thurs All you do is dial239-7793 and ask for the name or number of the tape you wish to hear. COUNSELINE is free and con­fidential, and is offered to you by the University of NotreDame Counseling and Psychological Services Center. ---CLIP & SAVE---Counseline is looking for volunteers to answer phones. If you are interested, please call ltS at 239-7336 .  

Trouble Reading Your StudentSavingsCard? 
Call today for a complete examination and 20% OFF any pair of glasses with your student savings card. 
• 
Large selection of fashion frames 

• 
All types of contact lenses 

• 
Prescriptions filled 

• 
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 

• 
Dr. Patrick Albert 


I 
Tom Mowle 
~ 
Assistant News Editor 


·ProfessionalVtsion 
ASSOCIATES 
1635 N. Ironwood • 277-1161 
they can't do after parietals. 
The Senior Buddy campaign was an excellent step in this direction. Since the student leaders won't do what students want them to do, students should take matters into their own hands. 
The administration and, seemingly, the student leadership, takes itself far too seriously. Since nothing will be accomplished by sane and reasonable argument. why not try to make the University look stupid? As we all know, all they really care about under the Dome is 
the NOTRE DAME IMAGE 
body presidents. Callaghan tried to be very serious and sensible. But he is held in the same high esteem Burke was. The only difference is that Burke made the administration look just as foolish. 
There are people on campus who have the tempera­ment to be this kind of leader. It is too late for this year (although the jury has not yet even convened for Rob Bertino, our new president) to change the leadership. But there must be others out there like the ones who organized Senior Buddy or who editedSlow Death. 
The ticket known as "The Mob" was defeated by that of Dean Christy for Senior Class Office. Profesjiionalism won over absurdity. Christy will probably b~ a com­petent class president. But might not the Mob have brought the proper degree of inanity to next year's campus issues? 
College, not being the "real world," shoul~ not be taken too seriously. Whatever happens here will be over with in four years or less. So ifnothing can be done to change policy anyway, let's enjoy protesting it. 

N
"""Q 
~ 
..,.. 
! 
history of futile protests finally sink in on them? After all, nothing can be done once Father Hesburgh issues a policy ex cathedra. 
Student government is, for all practical purposes, in­effective. The last major protest was in Fall 1982, when Lloyd Burke launched his much-maligned "Save the Busses (sic)" campaign. 
just in case you don't remember that occasion, af­ter the football team upset Pittsburgh, then ranked number one, thousands of students greeted the team along Notre Dame Avenue. 

(all bow). Student leaders need not worry about how this makes 
them look. Lloyd ~rke was considered a fool y many students/·~but it ·11 have little impact on his ifc now. Brian Callaghan st!-is con· sidered a. fool hy ny stu­dents, hut he'll sti I lead a fulfilling life. If a position looks good on your resume, it makes little difference what you did when you held that position. 
In fact, it is senseless to worry about looking the fool. Burke and Callaghan arc totally different student 

The Observer Tuesday, April 1 7, 1984 -page 3 


Senate survey looks at residence hall relations 
By MIKE MILLEN Senators from all the districts an­StaffReporter nounced the resolutions on which they are working. Proposals include A questionaire for improving putting study desks in Badin, hold­student-rector relations was dis­ing workshops for food sales cussed at last night's student senate managers, lighting the basketball meeting. courts behind Lyons Hall, installing a 
Student Senator Pat Browne, said, concrete walk between the "We will give this questionaire ... Pasquerillas and the Library, and and find what rectors feel about stu­opening a custom t-shirt shop on dent activites in the dorm." Browne campus. said the survey, which was not offi· cially voted upon, is designed to Student Body Vice President "open rectors' minds to how they Cathy David introduced and had can help students plan social ac­passed 14 amendments to the Notre tivites." Dame Student Government Con­
Workable suggestions 
Student Body President Rob Ber­stitution. 
tino added it's "all in the discussion Rob Bertino introduced the new
Paul Reynolds, director of Career and Placement fill out the Placement Profile Form," was designed by 
stage. It will be brought before the Student Government Cabinet, yesterday. The workshop, titled "juniors: Learn How to better use ofthe placementprofileform. HPC for approval." which was unanimously approved. 
Services, addresses a packed crowd in Hayes-Healy Career and Placement Services to help students make 

Weare willing to help! Stephen's Body Shop 255-2261 
341 Capitol Ave., Mishawaka We specialize in: collision repair, paint jobs, prestige autos 
,.. 
Student Activities Board is sponsoring 
A ONE WAY TRIP TO O'HARE 
Cost:$10 Departure: 12:00 p.m., Thursday, April19 Frqm: Main Circle Arrival: Chicago's O'Hare Airport 
{. 
Sign ups are at the Student Union Record Store in LaFortune 



DEBATE 
Resolved that Japan should significantly reduce its trade barriers on U.S. products. 
Affirmative: University of Notre Dame John Monberg Paul Komyatte 
Negative: Kansai University, Japan Akihiki Ueno Yoshiyuki Takemura 
TONIGHT, Washington Hall, 8:00pm 

Cagle said when she was unable to get a satisfactory answer from either Hesburgh or Tyson she approached the South Bend Tribune in hopes that its "Action Line" column might stir interest in her case. 
In a Mar. 26 article, the column 
asked, "Legal questions aside, 
wouldn't it be just for Notre Dame to 
pay or find you (Cagle) another as­
signment?" 
According to "Action Line," 
Wilkin said Cagle's reluctance to ac­
cept a job of lesser status than her 
Radiation Laboratory position "was 
delaying the process" to find her an­
other job at the University. 
Tension has surfaced between 
-
Mrs. Schuler and employees at the radiation laboratory on many occa­sions, according to several laboratory workers. 
The secretary before Cagle, Ruth Wiltrout, was transferred to a dif­ferent post after she declined to per­form similar social organizing for Mrs. Schuler, Cagle said. 
A receptionist at the Radiation Laboratory, Joan Walters, said Mrs. Schuler often uses lab workers to or­ganize and sponsor social functions. 
"Mrs. Schuler will give other people work to do; she uses lab money for luncheons; she uses lab paper and sells it; she helps herselfto anything she pleases," said Walters. "It's her lab, not ours." 
Walters, who also talked to Wilkin 
on Dec. 5 about Mrs. Schuler's 
relationship with employees, said 
the situation is a reflection on the 
operation of the personnel depart­
ment. "I feel like personnel should 
.rand behind its employees, but per­
onnel did not stand behind 
farilyn." 
"I think it's very serious any time 
anyone outside the lab or any place 
ofbusiness is allowed to come in and 
:~tllize service and personnel," she 
1dded. "There's something wrong if 
management won't back up 
(employees)." 
Walters said Dr. Schuler asked her 
why she refused to do social work 
for his wife and Walters responded 
she had other work to do. 
"He said it makes no difference," 
said Walters. "Ifshe asks me to do it, 
i better drop what I'm doing and do 
her work." 
Another laboratory employee, who asked not to be identified, said, "It's a well-known fact inside the office that . . . this has happt:ned before, to not just one person. Other people are afraid to speak up for fear oftheir jobs." 
Schuler said there were not any 
problems between his wife and 
radiation laboratory employees in 
the past that he knew of. "The facts 
are that there are apparently some 
false impressions being given." 
r--------------------------,
1 NOTICE I 
I I
I Students, faculty, and etc., male or female-I I we can start you in your own janitorial II business for only $9.95, part time or full time. 1 
I 
II
*no more summer jobs 1 *no more minimum wage 
I 
I1 *make $8-$15 an hour 1 *have clients immediately I



I Jl
For more information, send te.·· plies to: 
I 
SunBelt Services 1 213 South Lovell Rd. I Chatanooga, Tennessee 37411 
Lawsuit 
continuedfrom page 1 
sent letters to University President Father Theodore Hesburgh and to Executive Assistant to the President Father David Tyson asking for a review ofher case. 
Tyson told The Observer that it "was my understanding that she had a position here," but "it's only a mat­ter of matching a position to her qualifications." 
"I don't feel," added Tyson, "we should be doing up here what they do down there (at the personnel office)."· 

Clubs and Organizations ~ .... I r;::?'@ r
~d 
L) April is the time to re-register for the 84-85 .school year. Re-registration is mandatory for all groups. Forms are also available for applying for Activity Fee Funding for next year, and also for Football Concession Stands for the Fall. Deadline for applying is April 30. Forms are available in the Studen~ Activities Office, LaFortune. 
~-------------------~----­
The Observer Tuesday, April I 7, 1984 -page 4 
Student leaders term policy disappointing, not surprising
1 
By JOHN NEBLO 
Sentor StuffRefJortt>r 
"I can't hdit:vc it took a commit­tt:e of I 0 (X:oplc that long to come up with a policy that weak," la­mented Student Body Presidt~nt Rob Bertino after reading The Final Rt·port of the University Committet· on the Responsible Usc ofAlcohol. 
Bertino described himself as "very disappointed" with the n·port and called its rclt:asc, "a dismal mo­ment in Notre Dame history. I think 

Party 
continuedfrom page I 
mosphcrc in which responsible usc of alcohol is encouraged." flails will he pt·rmittt·d two semi-formals per semester. 
Studt·nts will bt· allowt·d to consume alcohol in the privacy of their . own rooms. However, beer and wine will probably be the only types of alcohol that will he per­mitted, au:ording to Beauchamp. 
I Tailgaters on the days of home football games will continue to ht·
f
I. allowed. A lt:tter. however, will he sent to alumni and season ticket hol­ders saying that alcohol will he restricted to the parking areas around the stadium and in the outer 
I. 
areas of the campus.
I, 
Although not pn:sently part oftht·
; I 
reJ><Jrt, an additional rule will outlaw bars in student rooms. This proposal was not suggested by the commit­
: i 
tee. Instead, thl.' Officers of the Uni­
. I 
versity recomnu:nded it when they examined the report.
I i 
I! 
"Tht· students will have to decide for themsdves whether or not tht·y 
will go off campus to drink," said
I 
Beauchamp. "We couldn't allow that
I t><Jssibility to dictate what our policy would he." 

HAPPY 
more prohlt:ms will arise from this policy than will he solved by it." 
Student Body Vice President Cathy David agreed with Bertino "instead of promoting responsible drinking, they're sending the problem away." David further at­tacked the University's motives charging that, "They're just considering thdr own liability. They're not naive; they know we're not going to stop drinking, they just don't want to know about it." 
Ex-Student Body President Brian Callaghan and Hall President's Council Chairman Mike Carlin served on the Committee as student representatives. According to Cal­laghan, both he and Carlin voted against adopting the policy, "but it was eight against two." 
"I'm against it," said Callaghan, "because it docs nothing to deal with the problem drinker per se, while taking alcohol away from the students." 
Callaghan believes the alcohol J><llicy is symptomatic of what he 

Tuesday Specials 
3-8 pm Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 "Bud" Long Necks 75
Bartenders Needed! Sign-up May 5 "Corby Open" GolfTourne 
,.____________________.._.,_______..________________~ 
I WILLPOWER! I I 
I 
I Apri124-29 I I I South Quad Mall I I I 
Shakespeare Marathon Reading-100 hour. ' 
Donations for the Milani Family Benefit Accepted _ 

~---~----------------------------------_J 
SUMMIJB STOllAGI SPACIJ 
Special discount for •DISMC shdtnta 
(5 x 10 spaces and larger) 
CALL 259·0335 to USIBVI SPACI SELF LOCK STORAGE orMCKIKLEY 816 East Me Kinley 
Mishawaka Security Patrdl Checks 
•t t t t 
•
•
•t 
HOUR t Early Happy Hour: 4:00-7:00pm • Monday · Friday •t 
and also featuring ... t t II Late Night Happy Hour t 1 0 pm--close, Monday thru Thursday t t 11 pm--close, Friday and Saturday • 
t • 
t .Free Munchies : 
·-··· f 


l_--·:.:_.;:.~---------------------:'· 
calls, "a general decline of the quality of life on campus." Said Cal­laghan, "it's not just the alcohol issue, it's the whole administration attitude toward students. It's like a parent-child relationship with very little trust involved ...the quality of life here at Notre Dame has been going down steadily since my fresh­man year. I don't think I would recommend Notre Dame to an incoming freshman." 
Bertino and David do not plan on taking the policy change without a fight. "Cathy and I plan on staying here Easter week to formulate a response. Each member of the Senate will be given a copy of the J><llicy to analyze over the break. We will have an emergency sesssion on the Tuesday we return and decide what action we will take." 
Callaghan warned that any at­tempt to protest the policy will fall on deaf ears. According to Callag­han, "they're expecting a lot of flak 

::2
'• DOES • YOUR GROUP • 



$$ $$
NEED MONEY? 
The Student Activities Board Movie Lottery for next year is April25 
Applications available on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune 
Mon. &Tues., Aprill6 &17 7&9PM $1 Admisssion Engineering Aud. 
Sponsors: Educ. Media & Center for Social COncerns 


SPECIAL RATES AVAILABLE FOR EASTER 
Call the airport 234-3712 for information 
See us for all ofyour car related needs. 
on this, but they figure it will die down in a few months." 
Bertino believes student protest will oc both more vocal and longer lasting than the Administration ex­pects, "We are currently consider­ing a protest rally, perhaps to be held over An Tostal weekend, but it will require a lot of student participa­tion." 
Reaction among the hall rectors was far more subdued with several rectors refusing to comment. According to Father Matthew Miceli, Rector of Cavanaugh Hall, the new t><>licy statement was, "more or less what we expected." 
Miceli indicated that, "some minor things arc still not very dear. For example: what constitutes a party? That section is kind ofvague." Miceli said that he hoped the dif­ficulties with the policy could he clairified at the upcoming rectors meeting. 
The new alcohol policy recom·­mends tht· addition of a mandatory health awareness component as part of the freshman physical education sequence. 
In addition, the report recom­mends that an office of alcohol t:ducation be established to develop awareness programs and to review alcohol policy and rules. 
The report also addressed the issue of the social life at the Univer­sity. A renovation of the LaFortune Student Center is advised, as well as the development of an lhdcr­graduate Club. 
Further recommendations to im­
prove the social life include the 
expanded use of the Senior/Alumni 
Club and Washington Hall. 
"This t><Jiicy is extremely sensitive to the students," said Beauchamp. "This is a total program, not just a series of alcohol restric­tions. This is our responsibility as a Christian institution." 
Dean of Students James Roemer has issued to the rectors a draft of a directive outlining how the alcohol policy would be implemented. The report places most of the burden of enforcement on the hall staffs. 



~i~~~_()__l_._ll__t___________________T_ue-sd_~_,A_pr_il_17-,1-98-4--pa-ge_s 
An alcohol policy that won't work 
It's a mistake. 
The new alcohol policy released last night is a major administration blunder. To restrict the student body so much and so soon will lead to disaster. But obviously the administration feels the end will justify the means. The University had forced itself into a corner to deal with questions ofliability and morality, but the method it decided upon is self-defeating. By eliminating alcohol from nearly all social gatherings, the administration has forced drinking behind closed doors, creating a situa­tion worse than before. The University must be ready to face the major consequences ofthis rash action. 
The new policy is the death sentence for Notre Dame social life as we know it. Because social activities are centered in the dorms, the elimination ofprivate parties and the sweeping prohibition of alcohol from hall parties will create an immense vacuum. At most col­leges, fraternities and sororities provide the chiefsocial outlet. Many schools are located in socially vibrant areas. But off-campus life here is poor at best, and there are few campus events aside from parties. 
The alcohol report suggests movies and plays in Washington Hall, student use of the Oak Room and the Faculty Dining Room, and other insufficient al­ternatives. Even the complete renovation of LaFortune Student Center would fail miserably to fill the void The result will be that thousands of students will go off campus to bars and apartments, or else drink in the seclusion of their rooms. Neither option will solve the problem ofalcohol abuse, but rather will aggravate it. 
The administration has misinterpreted the role al­cohol should play in a society. Drinking should not be eliminated from social events, but instead should be in-1 eluded as just one facet ofsocial life. To restrict alcohol on campus begs the question. There can be no sub­stitute for alcohol until there is first a substitute for an alcohol-oriented social atmosphere. What should have been done was to develop realistic alternatives and to allow alcohol to gradually take a back seat to a more 
creative social life. 
The University's solution is short-sighted and ex­pe~itious. The administration should have realized that the quickest way out is not necessarily the best, and Notre Dame will have far worse and far more problems next semester when the policy takes effect. 
-The Observer 
The recommendations of the alcohol committee 
Editor's note: The following is on excerpt ofNotre Dame's new alcohol policy released yesterday. Thefull report is 28pages. 
Drunkenness/Public Intoxications: 
It is the conviction of the liliversity that drunkenness and public intoxication ace un­acceptable. Certainly, students in need of counseling and therapy should receive it. However, sanctions should be imposed on those students found intoxicated. Mitigating factors such as inexperience and race drinking should be taken into consideration, but all stu­dents should be held accountable for their ac­tions. Those who frequently become intoxicated should be severely disciplined. The Committee recommends: 
1. That for the first offense in the academic yel the discipline should be the respon­sib ity of the student's rector and should in­cl e such things as work within the res ence hall, hall probation, or other ap­pn riate measures. In addition, the student 
sh1 ld be informed that subsequent viola­lions will be reported to the Dean ofStudents. 
2. 
That all subsequent violations by the same student should be reported to the Dean ofStu­dents, who may in turn also notify the parents of the student involved. In each case, depend­ing on the circumstances involved, sanctions should be imposed. Continued violations should result in suspension from the Univer­sity. 

3. 
That any fighting, or acts of physical violence against hall staff, security, or others while intoxicated should be considered reason for dismissal from the University. 

4. 
That ifa student is suspended from the Uni­versity because ofintoxication, or an incident involving intoxication, that student should be allowed to return only after the University has received sufficient evidence of the student's involvement in an alcohol rehabilita­tion/counseling program while away from the lhiversity. 


Public: Areas ofthe Campus 
The consumption of alcohol should not be allowed in any of the public areas of the campus. This includes, but is not limited to, campus grounds, parking areas, playing fields, stadium, and the public areas ofcampus build­ings. Renewed cforts by security to enforce this rule, including the confiscation ofalcohol and issuance of the appropriate fines, should be directed. The Committee recognizes that specific events on the campus warrant excep­tion to the general rule. Therefore, the com­mittee believes the following exceptions should be allowed: 
1. It would almost be impossible to eliminate alcohol at tailgaters on football weekends; therefore, these should be allowed. However, they should be restricted to the day of the game only and should only be allowed in the packing areas around the stadium and in the outer areas of the campus. No tailgating and consumption ofalcohol at picnics, etc. should be allowed in the inner part of the campus. 
Security should enforce this and a letter should go out to alumni and all football ticket holders informing those coming to the games ofthis rule. 
2. Special events during certain times should be allowed ifeverybody in attendance is over 
21. Prior permission or any such events should be received from either the fran of Students or some other appropriate central office. (See recommendation below regarding Office ofAlcohol Education.) 
Residence Halls: 
Parties at which alcohol is served should not be allowed in the residence halls. Crowded, semi-anonymous gatherings dis­rupt the tenor of the hall, create an atmos­,Dere that is the antithesis ofthe appropriare living environment for an educational institu­tion, and fail to ere~ an environment for an educational institution, and fail to create an environment that teaches students to drink responsibly. In fact, they often encourage al· cobol abuse. 
On the other hand, experience has demonstrated that well-planned, all-hall semi­formal parties ace events that create an atmos­phere in which responsible use of alcohol is encouraged. The <bmmittee believes that such events should bC continued. ·Fur­thermore, the Committ~e recognizes that some consumption of alcohol by students in the privacy oftheir rooms is not troublesome. It is the alcohol events that encourage alcohol abuse and disrupt the tenor ofthe hall that ace condemned. The Committee recommends the following recommendations to be adopted: 
IPrivate Rooms in the Residence Halls 
A. Individuals may consume alcohol in the privacy ofstudent rooms. 
B. No happy hours, parties, or similar events ace allowed in private student rooms. 
C. No kegs ace allowed in the residence halls. 
D. Participation in drinking games ofany kind is not allowed in the residence halls. 
E. Large amounts ofalcohol ace not allowed in private rooms and excessive amounts of al­cohol may be confiscated at the discretion of the residence hall stall. 
F. No bars allowed in student rooms. (This is a recommended ammendment that will be added to the Report. ) 
liParty Rooms in the Residence Halls 
A. Parties at which alcohol is served in the residence hall party rooms ace limited in at­tendance to those who ace .of legal drinking age. A member of the hall staff or the rector's designate must always be at such parties. 
B. ~lll!t Wrftch no alcohol is Served ace permitted in such rooms for all students. However, it is the responsibility of the hall staffto make sure no alcohol is served at such parties. Furthermore, underage st}ldents at such parties are not allowed to cOnsume al­cobol in private rooms that then become ex­tensions ofthe party in the party room. 
C. A University-wide set of regulations and contracts governing patties in party rooms must be developed by the Office of Student Affairs and should be reviewed by the Com­mittee before such rules ace implemented. These regulations should include such things as: procedure of checkilg age of attendants, size ofparty, percentage ofmoney that can be spenton alcohol, type ofalcohol allowed, etc. 
D. Prior permissions for all parties in the party room must be received from the rector ofthe residence hall and should be given only if a written contract is signed indicating the rules governing such parties. It is the responsibility of the hall staffS to enforce the rules es­lablished by the University for these parties. 
lllAll-HallSemi-Formal Date Parties: 
A. Well-planned, ;rll-hall, semi-formal parties at which alcoholic beverages ace served ace allowed in the residence halls. Beer and wine ace the only alcoholic b~rages allo~ed at such events. No punch is allowed. 
B. A maximum oftwo such events per hall per semester is allowed. 
C. A University-wide set of regulations governing such semi-formals must be developed by the Office ofStudent Affairs and should be reviewed by this Committee before such rules ace implemented In addition to the beer/"Mne rule stated above, these rules should be reviewed by this Commmittee before such rules ace implemented. In addi­tion to the beer/wine rule stated above, these rules should include such things as: percent­age of money that can be spent for alcohol, method of controlling alcohol distribution,' requirement ofinvoices submitted, etc. 
D. Permission for such party must be received well in advance of the party date from the Dean ofStudents or some othercentral office, and the rector of the hall only after assurance is received that such a party has been well­planned and proper precautions ace included in such plan. 
E. It is the responsibility of the hall staffS to enforce the regulations established by the Univers~ty for these parties. 
Social Life atNotre Dame: 
The issue of alcohol use on this campus must be considered as part of the total social life at Notre Dame. The University's isolation, its residential character, the composition of its student body and other factors necessitate the development of a diversified and active campus social life. Campus facilities, campus activities, campus events, and plans for future development must all be scrutinized and evaluated. This is especially true if there is to be any change in the current exaggerated im­portance placed upon student residence halls as the center ofsocial life on the campus. 
The Committee recognizes an urgent need for the development an<J implementation ofa 
' . , ~ ' 
comprehensive plan for social life on the campus. This plan should include both im­mediate and long-term programs and all aspects ofsocial life at Notre Dame, including facility needs. The effectiveness ofthe recom­mended alcohol policy is contingent upon the implementation of this plan. The Committee recommends that the following items be in· eluded for consideration in the development 
ofthis comprehensive plan: 
1. Facility needs -The study should include analysis and recommendation regarding renovation and construction of needed facilities on the campus. These include such things as: 
a Renovation and/or rebuilding of LaFortune Student Center. A complete plan should be immediately developed. 
b. 
Building and/or development ofan Un­dergraduate Club on the campus. The Un­dergraduate Club would provide a place for men and women to interact in a social atmosphere without the presence of al­cohol. It would be a place to meet, to cat, to dance, to watch videos and perfor­mances, etc. 

c. 
Athletic facilities -This study should consider: further improvement of athletic facilities, priorities for the use of these facilities, and expansion ofco-recreational programs. The Department ofNon-V acsity Athletics is key in the development of the study. 


2. Use of facilities currently existing -The study should include recommendations regarding better use of existing facilities for multi-purposes. The Committee believes that the following facilities ace currently under­utilized: 
a. 
Senior/Alumni Club -This facility should be made more available both for non-alcohol events and private parties. It should be actively "marketed" on the campus as a place available for many dif­ferent activities both on weekends and during the week. 

b. 
Washington Hall -This excellent and newly renovated facility should be made more available for general campus use. 


Offic:e ofAlcoholEducation 
The Committee recommends that a per­manent Office of Alcohol Education be es­tablished at the University. This office, as part of the Office of Student Affairs, would be responsible for certain aspects of the alcohol issue at the University. Its responsibilities would include such things as: 
1. development of alcohol awareness programs and ongoing orientation for hall staffS, etc.; 2. review of alcohol policy and rules, recommending changes when needed; 
3. approval of all "alcohol" functions at the University; 4. development of guidelines, rules, etc. for all alcohol events on the campus. 


Sports Briefs 
An NVAGoHReview. featuring golfpro Dick Walker, will ht· hc:ld tomorrow, April IH, at 4 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. This will he a refh:sher class on the fundamentals of various golf strokes and is for golfers at all levels looking for a short rt·vicw. The cost is $1 and registration is through the NVA office. The number is 239-6100. -The Observer 
The Weightlifting Club will sponsor a bench press and squatting meet Saturday, May S, at I p.m. There will be men's and women's weight classes and medals will be awarded to first through third places in each class. The meet is open to everyone, including varsity athletes. Sign up at Rockne weight room or call Pat ( 8762) or Mark ( I I 56). Fee is $2. -The Observer 
Ifyou think you can dunka basketball as well 
as anyone on campus, then you'll want to sign up for the AnTostal slam dunk competition to be held on Wednesday, April25, from 2-3 
p.m. at a site to be announced later. To sign up for the competition, which will have 9· and 10-foot rim divisions, co!lle to the informa­tion booth in LaFortune tonight at H p.m. Be early as the number of entrants is limited in each division. -The Observer 
The Dancin' Irishwill hold an organizational meeting Wednesday, April 25, in the LaFortune Little Theater for all in­terested in being on the 1984-1985 squad. Information will be provided on the upcoming tryouts. Those who cannot attend should call Patti Whitehouse (8027) or Jan Albrecht (4304).-The Ob­server 
Tim Noonan and Doug Pratt of the Notre 
Dame tennis team will be the featured guests tonight on "Speakingof Sports" at 10 on WSND-AM64. Join in the conversation with your questions and comments by dialing 239-6400 or 239·7425. -The Observer 


Classifieds 
Tuesday, April 17, 1984 -page 6 
And now it's down to 128 . •• 
Yesterday's games 
Stepan 1 
Snowbunny & His Receding Harehne over We re 
As Hot As Andropov by 12 
Sons Of Thunder VIII over Backboard Trash by 13 
Ed Sm1erciak & 4 Other Guys That over Notre 
Dame by 13 
Padres over Brother Campbell's Cobra Crew by 15 
Casper the Fnendly Coach over Pole Face & the 
South Bend Tards by 5 
Stepan2 
5 Guys Named Moe over Tan masters by 7 
T earn 136 over Schlongers by 7 
CRAMM II over Mr. Bob & H1s Dog Slug by 11 
A Black. A Jew. A Cripple. . over Catharine the 
Great Meets Mr. Ed by 14 
4 Gringos & a Spic over 5 Guys W1th Good Hands 
by 5 
Stepan 3 
Where·s the Beef" over Captam Ups & the 
Amaz1ng Zulu Brothers by 2 
Performers over As Individuals We Stink, But As A 
Team We Suck by 13 
Where's the Queef over The Captain Made Us Do It 
by9 
SONF over The B·Man·s Team by 2 
Rythm Mehtod Babies over 5 Good Reasons For A 
New Alcohol Policy by 6 
Stepan 4 
1 Jew & the 4 Skins over Destined To Lose By 2 by 
8 
Dust over 1 Of Us Has the Clap, 23·21 
Dirty Harelip over Playing Without Me Nabs by 14 
Ou«a Here over Free Wheelin' by 3 
Stepan 5 The Vacuum Effect over 4 Guys Thai Would Rather Be At Quarter .. 25-23 Dyspareunia (aka Fopdi) over 5 Guys Who Didn't Have To Live In A by 12 
F.A.Q. over 5 Guys You'll Never See Or Hear From Aga1nby2 Bleeding Ax Wounds II over The Dry Heaves by 12 Ste1111n6 4 White Guys & An Extra Tendon over Lean 
Muscles & a Couple of Squirts by 6 
Tom Veblin . .Stoned over White Lightning by 13 
Sick Individuals over 4 Dirtballs & a Dog by 9 
Congratulations Phil & Alisa over We Be Yo Dates 
by 2 Bookstore 9 
Tim Jacob & 4 Guys Who Are Just Friends With . over In Dire Straits by 3 In the Crowd over Congressional Aides by 7 Macri's Deli over Bob Barker & the Waiters by 17 Carmine Marro Has a Fever over Coonan & the 
Barbarians by 5 
Bookstore 1 0 5 Buzzards Circling Rose Kennedy over J.J. Wehle & H1s 4 Inches by 12 Give Us Mucha Chocha over 5 Journalists Who Know a Good Layout by 15 
Return Of Pigbag over Academia Nuts by 17 
Nutmeggers VIII over Hungry Rats Who Like To Throw by 11 Lyona11 Showtime over The Screamers by 2 
We Might Not Get Many Po1nts But We Score A Lot 
Anyway over Chsst by 2 Doyle's Gem1n1 over We Are the Beef by 17 WBBS On the A1r Again over The Fudge Packers 
by 15 
Lyons 12 4 Jerks & A Dnbbler IV over Malakas 5 by 14 Motown over Teddy's Bears by 3 Chicks Dig Us over Yes. We Will Lose In the First 
Round b!/6 Tequ1la White Lightning IV over Newtons Fallacy by 9 
Today's Games 
Stepan 1 4:00-The Old & Injured v. Spurlin' Spartans 4:45-Rho House v. Anyplace, Anytime 5:30-Team 136 v. The Sneakergate Sneaks 6:15-Law School v. Fun Bujlch 5 7:00-Tom's Tool Monsters v. Short On He1ght 
Stepan 2 4:00-Big Swahilis v. Where's the Beef" & the 4 Meat Mongers 
4:45 --Spud & the 4 Studs v. Destiny Without a 
Cause 5:30-Fr. B. & the Beer Bongs v. Los Mafandros 6:15-Sweet Swishers v. Tom White & 4 Other 
Caucasians 7:00-Darth & the Light Sabers v. Rag•n Cajuns 
Stepan 3 4:00-Take It To the Hole v. Shysters 4:45-Baltic Avenue v. John 3:16 5:30-5 Guys Who Urinate In the Shower v. Hoop 
Da Doop 6:15-3 Rev. of Jesse Jackson .. v. Snowbunny & His Rec.eding Hareline 7:00-God's Own Drunks II v. Brick Throwers Ste1111n 4 4:00-Duffy's Alamo $.50 Balloon Club v. 1 Jew & the4Skins 4:45-Windex Gang v. Vacuum Effect 
5:30 -Hitler Youth v. The Modern Lovers 6:15-Walter's Boys & Rebel v. Nasty, Nasty 7:00-Nebo Giants v. Stark Naked & the 4 Protru­
sions Stepan5 4:00-4 Guys & Herb v. Armed & Dangerous II 
4:45 -4 White Guys & An Extra Tendon v. Sometmes You Just Got To Say. 6:15-Virtual Unknowns v. Denn1s' Menaces On Dry Land 
Stepan 6 4:00-Pete's Blind Sisters v. Thy Kingdom Come 
4.45 -5 Guys That Can't Shoot When They're Wasted v. Sons of Thunder VIII 6:15-Gentof Express v. Captain Larry& His Mot­ley Crew Stepan 7 6:15-Wheels & the 4 Spokes v. Now Or Never Stepan 8 6:15-UB40 She B 13 We Be Busted v. Dribbling Dyxz 
Bookato,..;9 4:00-Where's the Queef" v. Dust 4:45-AShort Fat Guy v. Showtime 6:15-WindyCity5v. Red Red Wine 
Bookstore 10 4 00-Doyle·s Gem1ni v. Dirty Harelip 4.45-Cub1yao? v. Chicks D1g Us 6 15 -In the Crowd v Bungholes 
Lyonal1 4 00-Dyspeuma v. Tom Vebhn ..Stoned 4:45-Ed S1merc1ak & 4 Other Guys Thai Are 
v CRAMM'! 6 15 -Human Athlete & 4 Other Guys Who Can Play . v. Yank My Doodle 
Lyona12 4.00-F.A.Q. v. Macn·s Deli 4 45-Performers v. 5 Guys Named Moe 6:15-5 Buzzards Circling Rose Kennedy v The 
Shoot1st 
Women's Bookstore Tournament Today's Games Saint Mary'a 1 
4 00-5 Girls Who Could Win the NIT v We May Not Be Fast But We're Flashy . 5:00-Oona Tap1r v. The Bad Grads 
6.00 -Assorted Nuts v. 5 Semors In Search Of 
GCS Saint Mary's 2 
4:00 -Heirs Belles v. 5 Proofs That the Rythm Method Doesn't Work 5:00-4-on-1 And 1-on-3 v. The Not-Ready-For­A-Dry-Campus Players 6:00-The Last Short v. The Clueless Wonders 
Saint Mary's 3 4:00-Aff1nmat1ve Defense v. Hurtin' Chicks 5:00-Ballhandlers v. Swan Song 6.00-Miss1ng Link v. The Glee Club 
Saint Mary'a4 4:00-Smitty & the Lead Loads v. We Can't Play Ball But We Sure Are Fast 5:00-Cathy, Herman, Sticks, Purple Heart, 1v Buchanan's Babes 
XIII 
continuedfrom page 8 
with Captain Larry and his Motley Crew. 
IfNorth Quad is not for you, there are a couple of good matchups on South Quad at 6: I 5 p.m. as well. 
Bookstore 9 is the site of the con­test between Windy City Five and Red Red Wine, and Lyons I I is the place to see Human Athlete and Four Other Guys Who Can Play Basket­ball play against Yank My Doodle, It's a Dandy. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classificds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­ters r da 
NOTICES  FOUND MAROON UMBRELLA OUTSIDE ROOM 207 WALSH COME AND PICK IT UP ANYTIME  LOST: SEIKO watch Monday 1n Hayes­Healy Please call t 955 Thanks  WASHINGTON, D.C. Need ride-will share usual. Brian 1139  PERSONALS  Sign up, Sign up lor the Christian Jublleelf NO Contact: Mark Manley, X3662  
RIDE NEEDED to MINN/St.P or to E.  
COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE • 2n.fUI.45. W/p1ck up & deliVer  ad LOST Gold necklace w1th diamond pendant. Twenty-first b1lhday present $$Reward Call Beth 7813  FOR RENT  LANSING, MICH. (MSU) for Easter. Anywhere but South Bend! Call Ray 1101  OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  HAPPY 2ND ANNIVERSARY Terry and Liz. I hope San D1ego was almost as mce as Hawa11 was last year Love Cheryl  
PROFESSIONAL TYPING PRICES  AT  LOW  LOST Set of keys. "I love field Hockey· key nng. Lost Fnday afternoon. Maybe  CASTLE  POINT  APART.  ONE  need ride to NYC for Easter. call Steve at 6645.  COSMOS FEVER. ........ CURE ITIIIIIII  HI Ellen Murray Ellen Murray has JUSt lost a fnend!  
REPORTS  around Momsey. If find, please call 8118  BEDROOM  FURN.  JUNE.  JULY,  
RESEARCH PAPERS  and ask for Margaret.  AUGUST $250 272-5693  Got room for TWO RIDERS east on 1-80  
LEGAL DOCUMENTS RESUMES  FOUND  A BLACK JERUSALEM BIBLE  WANTED FEMALE ROOMMATE SUM·  to TOLEDO for break? call JIM 8674-72  JUNIORS, JUNIORS: Learn How to All  Michelle Dorsey IS wrapped around the Beef!!!  
COVER LETTERS CONTACT TEAt BAN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES  IN O'SHAG ASK FOR JANITOR FOR INFO.  THE  NIGHT  MER SESSION mce house good ne•gh­borhood Furn1shed except for your bedroom. 11/4 mile from campus $140.  HELP! I need an apt. for the summer. Call D1ane 283-4320  Out the Placement Profile Form. Tues­day, April 17. 7 p.m. Rm. 124 Hayes­Healy. Paul Reynolds of Career and  Bill, You're 1 Baby!  
234-4045  FOUND • BASKETBALL BEHIND BOOKSTORE ON FRIDAY APRIL 6. CLAIM AT LOST & FOUND IN AD.  Mo & 1/2 of ut1hties. Call Coleen after 7:00 234-9970  NEED RIDER TO N.NJ CALL KEVIN 2n-s2so  Placement Services. FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT  ND NOVICE CREW ND NOVICE CREW ND NOVICE CREW RULES THE EARTH!II THANKS FOR THE BUCH.  
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. CALL MRS COKER 233-7009 EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME CALL MRS. COKER 233· 7009 TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082 GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUB!!!!I!I  BLDG. NOW THAT WINTER IS OVER, WILL THE PERSON WHO SWITCHED BLUE DOWN COATS WITH ME LAST JANUARY AT SENIOR BAR PLEASE GIVE ME A CALL. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. YOU KNOW WHO I AM, MY NAME IS IN THERE. Lost Keys: Between Stepan Courts and Library. Please call3125.  [ WANTED I NEED A RIDE TO SYRACUSE­SCRANTON-PHILA. AREA FOR EAS­TER CAN LEAVE 4/16 CALL MARK 234-2252 Ride needed to CENTRAL MICHIGAN  I need a nde to Indiana U. for Easter Break. Call Tom at 1678. WANTED TOURING /RACING BIKE AND PANIERS IN GOOD CONDITION. WILLING TO PAY FOR QUALITY EQUIPMENT.CALL COLETTE AT 232· 6050. NEED RIDE TO CtiHartford for Easter Please Call PAT 8423  FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT I HAVE HOTEL RESERVATIONS IN ROSELAND· WILL TRADE FOR GRAD TIX. CALL 1695. Summer Olympic tickets for sale-call An­na Marie at 1335  CHRIS,MCD,TIM,ANGIE!! 5:011 504? BEST IN THE MIDWEST· WE WANT ITI THANKS DICKY,PAUL,GREG,&ATHENA! ND NOVICE CREW COACHES RULE THE EARTH TOO. HUGS& KISSES, CURLY Lore«a--Thanks for Friday night. I can honest!)" say that 11 was the best t1me I've ever had at ND. You are a very spec1al lady. Love, Arthur P.S. Next time let's try saymg goodmght 1n !he tv room rather  
FINNEGAN FOR BAND PRESIDENT THE NOTRE DAME STUDENT AC­TIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS. Bus  LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL COURT 4B, GOLD CHAIN WITH NOTRE DAME INTRAMURAL MEDAL (SMALL REC­ AREA lor Easter Break. Can leaw Wednesday night. Please call Maggie 284-5091 Riders needed to Ct forEaster call Jamne  TICKETS  GOOD JOB SCOREKEEPERS! GOOD WORK.  BOOKSTORE KEEP UP THE  than 1n the hallway. KISSER meeting tomght, 7:00, 1n the Nazz.  
Transportation To O'HARE Cost only StO Leav1ng Thursday. Apnl 19th at 12:00 PM SIGN UP NOW AT THE RECORD STORE IN LAFORTUNE  TANGLE). MEDAL HAS ONLY SEN­TAMENTAL VALUE (AWARDED TO FATHER IN 1944). KEEP CHAIN BUT PLEASE RETURN MEDAL. CALL PAUL 272 0746 OR ANN-MARIE 284 5087  284-4292 PHOENIX BOUND, BUT I NEED A PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL AUGUST 11. ANY SUGGESTIONS OR  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 7781.  Government and Busmess students· Don't m1ss tomght's JnternatJonal debate on Japanese trade policy. Washington Hall.8p.m.  Mary's 01-Hards are proud to honor  
AIR BAND CONTEST! S1gn-ups 1n LaFonune on Tue and Wed 6 00-8.00 CASH PRIZE Sill but, $3 fee per band. AIR II GOMARIPAT BEAT NtCOnNE  Lost: two )SCkets at Mornssey saturday night. One was a blue Notre Dame Windbreaker and the other was a pla1n blue Windbreaker. They were lett 1n the basement restroom. If found please call aat 1087 or 8868. Thank-you very much. LOST ONE BLUE HAWAIIAN CAP  OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239­53130R277-4851 GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED. CALL PAUL AT 239-5313 or 277-4851. Permanent Part-time Help Wanted. Ap­plications now being taken. No phone calls please. Pandoras Books 937 South Bend Ave.  HUGE DOMER family wants to see their last son graduate! DESPERATE fortix. $$ Call Paulafter 8pm 234·251 0. Need TICKETS for GRADUATION. Call Joel at1570 I need 4 grad t1x 1n a b1g way Call Larry 1638  PROVE TO YOUR FRIENDS THAT YOU CAN READ--READ DURING THE SHAKESPEARE MARATHON. FOR DETAILS CALL SUSIE-3821, JOHN· 239-7735 OR OMBUD-6283. Tired of going to bed alone? Tired of go1ng to bed alone? Tired of go1ng to bed alone? An Tostal Tuck-ins. S1gnups 1n the d1n1ng halls today  LAURA GLEASON as Moat Valuable Player In our bookstore basketball game. Good job Laura! NEED HELP CALL KEVIN PLEASE Snake and Duff Thanks for the hosp1ta111y Your grateful weekend boarder M. meoff  
GO CHRIS BEAT NICOTINE AIRII AIRII AIRII AIRII AIRII AIR!! AIR!! AIRII AIRII AIRII AIR!I AIRII AIRII AIR!! AIRII AIRII AIRII AIRII AIRII AIR!I AIRII AIR II  WITH COLORFUL TRIM STOLEN BY ONE OF THREE JOGGERS WITH COLORFUL TRIM SOMETIME LAST WEEK BETWEEN KEENEAN AND ZAUM THE HAT IS NOT MINE BUT MY ROOMATE WHO HAS SINCE SUF­FERED A SEVERE IDENTITY CRISIS. IF NECESSARY, HE WILL ASK YOU OUT PLEASE CALL 283-3254 OR DROP BY 140 KEENAN ON YOUR NEXT KLEPTO­JOG  NEED A RIDE TO DAYTON FOR EAS· TEA. CALL STEVE AT 8105. Need nde to SYRACUSE Area for Easter. Call8017 TEXAS BOUND? I'm gonna be heading to Houston on the Monday after gradua­tion (May 21) and I need a flder. The car's not huge (a Honda), so plan to leave your baby grand piano here. Also. chain  $$$ AND HOTEL RES. TRADE FOR 1 GRAD. TIX STEVE 277-6055 GRADUATION TIX-NEED 21 WILL PAY $$$!CALL MEG HAN AT 7260. PLEASE HELP! Summer Olympic tickets-call Anna Mane at 1335.  ATTENTION: LAST CHANCE FOR SOPHOMORE CLASS SHIRTS!! ON SALE IN DINING HALL MON-TUES DURING DINNERIII! ONLY $1011111 ON­LY$10!!11 Q:HOW MANY CE'SDOES IT TA~ TO BUILD A SIDEWALK? A 2. ONE TO DESIGN IT, AND THE OTHER TO THINK OF EXCUSES FOR WHY IT SLANTS.  EMMA FRIBLEY. pa1nlully shy but ex­tremely lovable, WIShes to meet her cho1ce for Mr. Stanford, MIL TON E. Please agree. RSVP PETE HELDMAN -Don't you have any other clothes? You've been weanng the same ones every day. Get a clue PITT CLUB BUS SEATS STILL AVAILABLE. CALL PAT 1694  
LOST/FOUND  LOST at RAFFERTY'S Thursday n1ght ·A dark blue and brown reversible down Win­ter coat. If you have 11. call 8938 for reward.  smokers need not apply Call Mark at 8765. HOT RADIO OPPORTUNITY FOR AG·  ~~ NEED Commencement TicketsI Willing to pay a reasonable pnce. Call Terry at 8764.  -·'I •...,J Q:WHAT DO YOU CALL THE COM­PUTER ROOM CROWDED WITH CE'S: A:A .TYPIAL FRIDAY NIGHT. Q WHY  DEAR EDWINA -YOU ITCHIN WOMANII DIG YOUR WHEELS! LOVE YOUR RIDE!! THREE DRY GUYS.  
GRESSIVE  GRAD.  LOOKING  FOR  DON'T THE POOR FOLK ALLOW CE'S  TIRED OF TAKING A CLASS  FOR 0  
lost. blue wallet w1th rambow tnm  keep  FOUND  BASKETBALL  AT  STEPAN  SALES AND PROMOnONAL ABILITY.  TO LIVE IN THE GHETTO WITH THEM?  CREDITS?  BLAME  PETRO!!  ... and  
the sentimental piCtures of my lnends, just return my hcansefff  COURTS AT 7:15 ON THURS 4112 CALL 12150R 1148TO IDENTIFY  NEED OWN CAR AND PERSISTANCE. REPl:H0.90X 6421!~-SB; 46&6Ct • • •  WILL TRApFJiPJEL RES (DAYS INN) . A IT BRINGS DOWN THE VALUE OF VOTE SHARON PETRO FOR UMOCIII FOR 1 GRAD. Tlt.-CALL 232-3582''' • •,•, 'TI·H~ ~Ql)S'I;!:;' ' ' ' ' •,•.' ' ' ' ' '.' • • 'S>d'~gtdS~ • • • ' ' • • • • •  



~~~C3L~----------------------------------------T•u•e-sd_a•y•,A•p•r·il-1_7_,1_9_8_4___
P_ag•e..7 
Bloom County 
FU£'5 THE 5CHEPIU 
OF1He 5PECIA,-!N1r~ST 61?0Vf5 mM OIJR vtce­
PRES/Pf.NTIN.. CANll/Pim5 
WIU. 8£ V/5/nNG111/S VEEK. I AM IWJARe. 1HM15 YOIJ. OF THAT. 

Mellish 
NEW BOOK~TORE BASKETBALL 
RIJIES: 
I. THOU MUST NOT FOIJ/. • 

l£5SE£•. MONPAY IS 1HE •f!I{OTf£RHOOTl OF 5TPit1MEKINfJ ~M FARMERS ":.. 71/ESPAY,
•eo5T0fi/IWS FOR BVPVHA ":., W£/JNE5/iflY, '1Hf3 6AY SPeWNKER5 ASSOCIMION:~ 
I 


~-THDU MUST NOT G411llfNP. 
-~~ 
Guindon Richard Guindon 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 29 Fifth 50 Certain 5 Usedcar 1 Further wheel Nigerian: deal 5 Cheese 31 Prize var. 6 -·France 
cover 32 Battle 51 Dogmatic 7 Closeby 9 Bakery memento 57 Hair styles 8 -Amaz items 33 Valley of 59 N.Mex. 9 Oil vessel 
14 Tent city vineyards resort 10 Ottoman 
15 Robert-37 Med. subj. 60 At full title 
16 "Play it 38 Listened to speed 11 Mad -Sam" 39 Certain 12 Diacritical 17 Safe asea tournament mark
61 Blackthorn 
13 Slammin'
62 Overlook 
Sam
18 Opportune 40 Certain 63 Byways 20 Tosses student 64 Sea bird 19 Ahead one off 41 Lecher's 65 Breathing 21 Found a 
22 Mount near look sound line ancient 42 Luigi's 25 Fractional Troy love part
23 Racing 43 Bar legally 
26 Saint and 
distance 45 In the cen-
DOWN Gabor 
24 Took the terof 1 School: 27 Onebil­bridal abbr. lionth: path 46 Smoothing 2 Edouard the comb. form 
machine composer 28 Applaud 26 Thespian's 49 Patrick's 3 Diving duck 29 Overcharge tribute isle 4 Agape 30 Whittle 
"PICTURE N.D." PHOTO CONTEST 
tti 
1st Prize: $60 of camera accessories and $20 cash *plus other prizes 
Deadline: May 4 Applications at OBUD desk, LaFortune 
Berke Breathed · 
ANP OF CO!JRf£, THVRSPAY IS PHYUIS 5CHt.Afi..Y'S 
CIVIL. 
RESTRICTIONS GROIIP...1HE 'l..A.W. ": 

J. 
THOU MU5T NOT /JilAY _MUCII·Pfl8t1Cilf6 _.~~MIS:. 



TIME'S UP. OFF THt 
COURT... HUH? 
/ / 


The Far Side Gary Larson 
.q. 17 


Campus 
•12:25 
p.m. -Economic Workshop, David Har­rington, Library Lounge 

•2:30 
p.m. -CEDD Session 4, "The Possibility of Democracy: Exit, Voice, and Loyalty," CCE 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "The Effect of Electric Fields on Facilitated Transport," Amutya L. At­hayde, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•3:30 
p.m. -Tennis, ND Women vs Michigan State, Courtney Courts 

•4:30 
p.m. -Biology Seminar, "Nutrient Regeneration and Plankton Productivity," Dr. John Lehman, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

•7 
p.m. -Ground Zero Elections, Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
p.m. -Campus Bible Fellowship,Jewish Pas­


.sover/Lord's Supper Celebration, Center for Social Concerns 
•7 
p.m. -Film, "The Selling of the Pentagon," O'Shaughnessy Loft 

•7 
p.m. -Drawing Exhibition and Reception, "Visions," Fernando Del Paso, ISIS Gallery 

•7 
p.m. -Workshop, "Juniors: Learn How to Fill Out the Placement Profile Form," Paul Reynolds, 124 Hayes Healy 

•7:30, 
9:30 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "Jesus Christ Superstar," Chautauqua, Sponsored by Student Union, $1 

•7 
and 9 p.m. -Film, "In Our Hands," Engineer­ing Auditorium, Sponsored by CSC, and Educ. Media, $1 



TV Tonight 
7:30p.m. 
8p.m. 
8:30p.m. 
9p.m. 9:30p.m. 
10p.m. llp.m. 11:30p.m. 
16 Barney Miller 22 Family Feud 28 Wheel of Fortune 16 TheA-Team 22 The American Parade 28 Foul Ups, Bleeps and Blunders 28 A.K.A. Pablo 16 Movie: "Jesus ofNazareth Pt. III" 22 CBS Special 28 Three's Company 28 Shaping Up 28 Hart to Hart 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 Tonight Show 22 Magnum PI/McCloud 28 ABC News Nightline 

32 Utah's 47 Large snake flower 48 "-is an 34 Footless island" creature 49 Fielder's 35 Individual: fault abbr. 52 Upkeep 
36 Dill 
38 Fast car 53 Bulrush 
42 Ugandan of 54 "-Camera" disrepute 55 Stirup 
44 Autos 56 Alberto 
45 Ascended Azzo's 
46 Flower family part 58 Patty 
Monday's Solution 
©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
4/17/84 
All Rights Reserved 
and now the film ... 
A NORMAN JEWISON Film 
"JESUS CHRIST SUPERSfAR'' 
at CHAUTAUQUA Tues. April17 & Wed. April18 
7:30, 9:30, 11:30 Adm$1 


S~orts 
Few seeds struggle as field is trimmed to 128 
By PHIL WOLF of-31 en route to a 21-9 trouncing of .\ports Writer Five Guys Who Didn't Have to Live in a Buhhk for Twelve Years. 
The fidd of 512 teams was Fran O'Malley was the high scorer trimml·d 10 only I28 yesterday as for the hot ones, hitting 8-of-I 2, the second round of Books10rc XIII including his la.-;t six in a row. John drew 10 a dose. Skawski added five points on seven 
Thnc were kw surprises in yes· shots for the victors. 
tl·rday's games, as most of the Another team that shellshocked 
favornl teams won thdr contests. its opponent wa'i the Padres, which 
Many of the sel·ded teams rolled to hit 21 of 3 7 shots to eliminate 
l'a.~y vk!ories, although a few of Brother Campbell's Cobra Crew, 21­
thl·m had some prohkms. 6. Tod Tamberg wa.-; the leader of 
One seeded team that ran iniO the men in the Roman collars with some unexpected difficulties was I 1-of-I 5 shooting. Four Guys That Would Rather hl· at Kevin Saunders hit six shots in a Quarter Beer Night and Onl· Guy row antt had a game total of 12-for-That Would Rathn hl' at Lewis. Thl' 1 8 to lead Stms ofThunder VIII past team with the lengthy appellation Backboard Trash, 21-H. Sons of fdl victim 10 Thl· Vacuum Effect, 25-Thundl·r VIII shot 2 1-for-38, 23, 10 heo>me the second seeded compared to the 8-for-50 of Back­team in this year's tournament 10 be hoard Trash. knockl·d off in the l'arly rounds. WBBS on the Air Again downed 
Roht:rt Zielinski led The Vacuum The Fudge Packers, 21-6, on the 8­Etkct to thl· upsl·t hy making 12 of for-12 shooting of Bill McGrath and his 2(, shots, which negated the 12-a team IOta! of 21-for-40, while of-27 shooting ofSteve McHenry for seeded Bleeding Ax Wounds II cut the losers. up The Dry Heaves, 21-9. Tim 
Anothl·r game which Wl'nt iniO Beardsley wa-; the high scorer in that overtiml· wa.o; the matchup hetween one, with eight points on I 1 shots. Dust and One of lis lias the Clap. It Other victorious seeds were Te-took 23 points, hut Dust l·merged 4uila White Lightning IV, win!ling the winnl·r in that onl·, as Derrick 21-12 on-r Newton's Fallacy, and Bushman knO<:ked in I 0 points on Nutmeggers VIII, 21-10 over 21 aut·rnpts. Hungry Rats Who Uke to Throw. 
Showtime was a seeded tl·am that Today is the first day of round had 411ite a st·are yesterday, hardy three of Booskstore XIII, and there est·aping with a two-point victory will he a lot ofgood games, as some ovt·r Thl· Scrl·amers. Showtiml' of the stronger teams meet on the Irailed by four at I ·l-I 0 and by three asphalt this afternoon. at 16-I -~• hut managed 10 tie the Defending champion Macri's Deli gallll' at 16 and then hold on for the takes on F.A.Q. on Lyons 12 at 4 p.m. 21-19win. and The Modern Lovers meet tlitlcr 
Showtime hungkd its way 10 the Youth at 5:30p.m. on Stepan 4, hut vic!Ory.sb~>ting a mist·rahk 21-for-most of the exciting action today 
70. Kevin "Rat" Rodgers set the ex­will take place at 6: 15 p.m. ample for Showtime by missing I 8 of On Stepan I at 6: I 5 p.m., Fun his 25 shots. Pat Tickk kd The Bunch Five goes up against Law St:reamers with 10 points on 20 at­School, while two couns away, on tc:mpts, but his team managed only Stepan 3, Three Reverends ofJesse 
19-of-57 as a group. Jackson and Two Guys to Attract the 
St>me teams lOok advantage of White Vote will attempt 10 make weaker opponents yesterday 10 rabbit soup of Snowhunny and his boost thdr team shooting per­Receding Hareline. Meanwhile, on l'entages. The hot-handed team of Stepan 6, Gcritol Express docs battle the day was Dyspareunia (aka Fopdi }, which shot a remarkable 21-See XIII, page 6 
Tuesday, April 17, 1984-page 8 

Somehow Mike "Butch B.P." McCaughey, Frank "Muff.y" Creed, andjoe "F/uffl'" Sirrianni managed to sneak into the women's bookstore basketball tourna­ment, and their team, Tum Offthe Disposal Dear, I've Lost the Baby defeated Princess Bookstore and ller Ladies in Wailing, 21-II at the Stepan Courts yester­day. For an update ofthe men's tounwment, see Phil W'o/fs story• at/eft. 
Spring football 

Kickers lack experience, not skill 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports Writer 
VHth the wealth of experience that returns for next sea.<Km on of­fense and defense, the major weak­ness for Notre Dame appears to he the lack ofexperience in the kicking department. 
The Irish lose placekicker Mike Johnston and punter Blair Kid, both of whom have made their presence felt in the Notre Dame football record book. 
Johnston, a virtual unknown before his record 19 field goals in 22 attempts in 1982, finished with 31 three-pointers, second in the career list behind the four-year effon of Dave Reeve. 
Johnston also established career 
marks in extra point percentage ( 33­
of-34 ), missing only on his la-;t at-
Irish disappointed with 1-3 showing against Midwestern rival Xavier 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN 
Sports Writer 
"It wa.-; not a good weekend at all," commented 
Notre Dame head baseball coach Larry Gallo on his 
tl·am's four-game series against Midwestern City 
Conference rival Xavier. "In fact, it wa.o; very dis­
appointing." 
Gallo's disappt)intment stems from his team's in­ability to win more than one offour games played last weekend in Cincinnati. The Irish entered the series with a 11-12 record, hoping to get off to a good stan in their conference schedule. But against a I0-18 Xavier club, they were unable to get much going. 
In the first game of a doubleheader on Saturday, the Irish seemed to run into S<>me ofthat bad luck. Of the five Xavier hits against Mark Clementz, four ofthem were solo home runs. 
This enabled Xavier to take the win, as Notre Dame only collected six hits and one run itself. The run came in the second inning, when Steve Pas­sinault walked with bases loaded to score Tom Shields. The game ended 4-1 in favor ofXavier, and the Irish dropped to 11-13. 
The second contest of the twinbill was a dif­
ferent story. Both teams hit well from the stan, 
with the Irish jumpingout to a 7 · 3 lead in the top of 
the: fourth on Mike Metzler's three-run homer. 
But Xavier chipped away at the Irish hurlers, and climbed into a 9-9 tie in the bottom of the sixth. The game was suspended because of darkness at this pt>int, and resumed the next day before the scheduled doubleheader. 
On Sunday, the Irish came out swinging hot bats. In the top of the seventh of the rescheduled game, they took the lead for good with a three-run out­burst. Tom Shields' bases-loaded fly ball and Jim Ike's two-run single gave Notre Dame a 12-9 lead. Joe Dobosh shut out Xavier in the bottom of the seventh, and the victory went to Dobosh and the Irish. 
After this win, one would think the Irish would 
carry momentum into the opener of the Sunday 
doubleheader. This, however, was not the case. 
The Irish could only collect three hits in this 
contest, one of them Jim Dee's solo home run in 
the sixth inning to account for Notre Dame's only 
run. 
Meanwhile, Dobosh staned this game after his win in the last, and managed to pitch a strongcom­plete game. He allowed only six hits, but three Irish errors helped to give Xavier four runs. With the 4-1 loss, Notre Dame entered the last game of the series with a 12-14 record. 
In thi'l lao;t contest, the Irish simply were blown out. They took a 3-0 lead in the first inning on a two-run single by Dee and a triple by Shields. But they were not to score another run. 
Xavier, on the other hand, pounded eighteen hits off four Irish hurlers. Not one of them could stop the onslaught, and Notre Dame found itselfon the losing end once again by a score of 14-3. 
The final loss left the Irish at 12-1 5, and 1-3 so far 
in conference play. Gallo feels that the team has 
placed itselfin a tough position. 
"The last six games (in which the Irish have gone 1-5) have not been a real enjoyable experience for anyone," said Gallo. "We're down now and we've got our work cut out, but we've got 24 games left, and we can still tum it around." 
tempt against Air force last sea'i<m, and fidd goal efficiem:y ( .~ 1-of-42 ). 
Gone also is four-year punter Blair Kicl. Kid hooted an amazing 259 punts in his career, easily the most in Irish history. Kid also averaged 40.7 yards pc.·r punt, good enough for second place on the career charts. 
Obviously, coach Gerry Faust feels that Notre Dame must spend more time than usual on the kicking game this spring. 
"The kicking game i-; vital for us," Faust says. "We've emphasized it this spring because last sea'i<m we were inconsistent at times." 
John Carney is the heir-apparent to Johnston's spc.>t. Carney burst onto the scene la'it year as a fresh­man, handling kickoff duties for the Irish. 
Carney boomed 43 of his 59 kick­offS to the opposing teams' goal line and became the much-talked about potential replacement forJohnston. 
All placekickers for Notre Dame, including Carney, have suffered from inconsistency in longer fidd goal tries this spring, however. 
"I lfc:el I'm kicking better than I did last yc:ar," says Carney. "I don't know why I haven't been making more of my kicks this ~-pring." 
No need to worry, though, be­cauS<: with his strongleg, only a little polishing of accuracy stands be­tween Carney and a great season. 
"Any one ofour three kickers can hit the shon ones consistently," Faust says. But the critical yardage Faust would like to see improve­ment in is the longer, 40-to SO-yard rang<:·. 
"We need to practice on the lon­
ger ones," the Irish head coach com­
ments. In the scrimmages, it is a rare 
occa-;ion that a field goal is made 
from more than 40 yards. 
Pat Chura raised a few eyebrows in last Saturday's scrimmage, as the 5-6, 135-pound sophomore hit on two attempts, Ol')e of them from 52 yards away. 
Chura, who transferred from Purdue after the '82 sea<Km, and classmate Ted Gradel are battlingfor the ba:ckup position. 
Gradel suffered a pulled muscle in 
his leg on Saturday, and it is uncer­
tain whether he will he able to kick 
at full strengthfor the remaining five 
practices before the Hue-Gold 
game. 
Snapper Kevin Kelly returns for a 
founh year on special teams assign­
ment, and Mike Viracola, Scott 
Grooms or an incoming frl·shman 
quarterback will handle the holding 
duties. 
One weakness especially cvitknt was the fact that more than a handful of kicks Wl'rc blocked, and that fact did not please the coaches. Tht· Irish will employ a different blocking scht·mt· in order to counteract that. 
The punting situation looks a lillie 
hit better, with Viracola rt·turning 
for a fifth Yl'ar, after hl'ing granted an 
extra year pfeligibility and awardl·d 
a scholarship. 
Viracola lacks gaml· cxpl·rience, 
only having punted four times for a 
34.0 average in 1983. However, he needs to work on his consistency, according to Faust. 
Junior Hal Von Wyl, who wao; highly touted as a freshman after a successful high school career, is 
recovering from arthoscopic knee surgery, and intends to battle either Joe Howard or Steve Ikucrlcin for the backup position after he recovers from the injury. 
Faust knows well how important having a good punter is in college football. Unfortunately he has been on the wrong side of the field to en­joy many good punting efforts. 
Last seaS<m against Michigan State, 
Ralf Mojsiejenko pinned the Irish 
deep in their own territory much of 
the game, making it difficult for 
Notre Dame to sustain a drive. 
Field position was a major factor in many games last year, and most of the time, Notre Ill.me was the victim and not the protaganist. 
As for the rest ofthe key positions on special teams, the top punt and kickoff returners will be back in the fall. 
St>phomores Alonzo Jefferson and 
Alvin Miller will be deep to receive 
kickoffs. Even though both averaged 
under 20 yards per return, both arc 
capable of breaking one for a touch­
down. Jefferson did just that against 
Air Force last seaS<m, only to have it 
called back because of a dipping 
penalty. 
Howard returned 28 punts in 
1982, averaging 7.2 yards per 
return. Howard gained his yards by 
using a no-nonsense approach: 
going straight up the field after 
catching the punt. 
The rest of the special teams will 
be filled by incoming freshmen and 
players that are scrambled in the 
depth charts, so more will he known 
in the fall. 






