Billy Joel -page 6 

VOL XVIII, NO. 80 tht: imkpt:mknt ~tudt:!ll ncw~papt:r ~cn·ing notrl daml' and ~aint mary·., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1984 

Court convicts Micinski on three counts in off-campus hit-and-run 
By MARGARET FOSMOE Brook said that the prosecution "The difficult part was to prove he andJOE INCARDONA presented several key pieces of ( Micinski) was intoxicated," said StaffReporters evidence which proved it was Brook. He said the defense had Micinski's white Pontiac that was in· based their argument on the fact that 
The defendant in a I982 hit-and­volved in the accident. One of these the prosecution could not prove run incident that seriously injured came from an analysis done by FBI that Micinski was actually intox­two Notre Dame students was found technicians in which tiny fabric im· icated when the incident occurred. guilty on three counts by a South pressions found on the grill of The prosecution, however. Bend Circuit Court jury yesterday. Micinski's vehicle were matched brought in a physician who 
Russell Micinski, 28, was found microscopically with fabric patterns specializes in handling alcohol guilty on two counts of causing from clothing worn by the students problems to testify that it was pos­serious bodily injury while under at the time of the accident. The FBI sible that Micinski suffered an al­the influence and oae count of laboratory also verified that a piece cohol blackout immediately before leaving the scene ofan accident. The of the car's grill which police found the accident. The physician noted hit-and-run, which occurred in the at the scene of the accident that if this was the case, Micinski early hours of Scpt. 26, 1982, lcft bdongcd to Micinski's car. could have driven the vehicle while Notre Dame students Kerrin Man­The hit-and-run remained un­intoxicated and been completely 
nion and Beth Mcinerny with scrius resolved until july 8, when a tip was unaware ofwhat happened. injuries. received by the South Bend Crime "It was an interesting and sad Stoppers program. The information case," said McDonald. "It's really sad
Mannion suffered a broken ankle, led authorities to Micinski, who was to see injuries like that happen."
tibia and fibula, a fractured ver­arrested in August. Micinski could receive up to ninetebrae, a concussion, and torn liga­Defense Attorney Richard years in prison on the three charges.
ments in both knees. Mcinerny McDonald told jurors that weather McDonald said Micinski willtestified that she stiU suffers severe conditions on the night of the acci­probably await sentencing before memory lapses. 
dent hampered driving visibility. He deciding whether to appeal the ver­The two were struck while further stated that hospital records dict. Micinski will be sentencedwalking along South Bend Avenue, show that the victims themselves within 45 days, following a pre­I,200 feet from the Linebacker were intoxicated. sentencing investigation.
Loungc, I 6 31 South Bend Ave. 
Mannion testified that he andMicinski confirmed that he was at Mcinerny were walking back tothe Linebacker Loungc on that eve­either a party at Campus View Apart­
House and Senate consider bills
ning, but says he has no recollection ments or to his own house. Both vic­ofan accident. 
tims have little recollection of Deputy Prosecutor Sanford Brook events leading to the incident. 
to set national drinking age at 21 
told the court that Micinski ad­Brook maintained that the mitted to police he'd "been drinking defense's argument attributing the By TIMOTHY GIANOTTI drivers under the age of 21. tial Commission on Drunk Driving. a little bit, a little more than I should accident to the weather conditions News Staff These drivers constitute about I 0 The National Transportation and have" on the night of Sept. 26. His and the students' dark clothing was percent of the nation's licensed Safety Board is a supporter of the statement also revealed that he was a entirely insufficient. Police at the The days oflegal teenage drinking drivers and are responsible for an crusade against teenage drinking, regular customer at the Linebacker scene testified that visibility that may be coming to an abrupt end, say even smaller percentage of vehicle but no advocate of federal legisla­Inn, and that at the time he was morning was 200 to 300 feet, supporters of two federal bills call­miles driven. tion as an answer to the problem, going there every day to drink. according to Brook. ing for a unified national drinking "The data show that a 21-year-old however. Spokesman John Moulden 
age of21. drinking age will lower nighttime:: fa­supports action on the state level. 
In September of 1983, Congress­tal crashes of the affected age group "We have made recommenda­man james Florio (D-NJ) introduced by 28 percent," commented Florio tions to every state governor a bill into the House to establish a at a press conference announcing concerning this," he said. Moulden national drinking age of21, calling it the introduction of the bill. "Each explained, "A state is much more "a bill to end the carnage on our year there will be over 700 more likely to enforce a locally supported highways." young people who will escape such law rather than a federally imposed 
In October of 1983, a companion fatal crashes." one." bill was introduced in the Senate by The support for both the Florio He said that the big rush to pass Senator Richard Lugar ( R-IN ). and the Lugar bills has been a power­the bills federally is largely due to 
"The time is ripe for a solution to ful motivating force behind both those people who are concerned this problem." stated Florio, the campaigns. Lynn Daghlian, spokes­with the legislation's "life-saving chairman of the House Subcommit­man for Senator Lugar, said that the potential." tee on Commerce, Transportation support has been "overwhelming," Moulden himself sees no lack of and Tourism. In a statement made and that they were "very optimistic" zeal on a state level. "This is a very the day following the bill's introduc­concerning the progress of the hot issue in most state legislatures, tion into the House, he insisted: "It is bills." and from what we've seen, there is a time to put a stop to the killing." Supporters for the legislative tremendous amount ofinterest." 
According to the National movement include such organiza­Amidst the enthusiasm encoun­
Transportation Safety Board, ap­tions as the American Automobile tered by the pro-legislation groups proximately 25,000 Americans died Association (AAA ), National Safety and organizations, there has also from alcohol-related highway acci­Council, Mothers Against Drunk dents in 1981 alone, and ap­Driving ( MADD ), Alliance of 
see DRINK, page 4 
proximately 5,000 of these involved American Insurers and the Presiden-
New electric news boards installed 
By RICHARD PILGER responsible for the news boards and flown by over-night courier to News Staff has editing rights. Texas, where it is typed into a com­The University has been allocated puter. Transportation costs will be 
Tired of taping up dozens of 600 characters in each day's broad­defrayed by a pro-rated fee, said xeroxed sheets in halls and door-cast. These arc divided into three Tucker. For example, an organiza­ways to advertise events for your groups of 200 characters, so tion using I 0 percent of the charac­campus organization? An alternative messages should be as brief and ters will pay I 0 percent of the 
is now available, in the form of new-concise as possible, said Tucker. mailing cost. ly installed electronic news boards Sixty percent of the University's 
in the library pit and the first floor of allotment of characters will be To insure proper dating ofevents, LaFortune. reserved for Student Union/Student student information must be sub­A small fee is charged for the Government activities. The remain-mitted to LaFortune's information service -just enough to cover ex-ing 40 percent will be available to booth by I p.m. on Monday of the penses according to Ombudsman students in this order: classes, week preceding the broadcast, said Director Andy Tucker -which is service clubs, Center for Social Con­Tucker. Any event publicized on the available to all campus clubs and or-cerns, social clubs, residence halls message-board will be listed until ganizations. and individuals. the date of the event, and no 
Ombudsman, in cooperation with The information to be printed by messages will be broadcast longer the Studcnt Activities .Office,. is ..the. . message-board company is than two weeks. 


r 
The Observer 
In Brief 

A Game of indoor football sent a Moorhead 
Statt· University (Minn.) student flying through two panes ofglass in a dorm hallway. almost landing him on the sidewalk below. The uni­vnsity billed him $200 for damages including $7.95 for plywood to cover the hole. The student said he wouldn't have been charged if ht·'d bt·en seriously hurt, adding he wants the plywood for a bulletin board. -The Obsen,er 
At least 135 Soviet diplomats and other 
citizens wen: expelled from world capitals last year, most after being accused of spying -almost triple the number ordered home in 19H2. The trend, which one U.S. official attributes to "spine­stiffening" on the part of many governments faced with a surge in Soviet intelligence activity, apparently is continuing. On Wednes­day, the government of Norway, reacting to the arrest of an alleged Soviet agent working inside the Norwegian foreign ministry, ex­pelkd five Soviet diplomats and barred the Soviet embassy from rt·placing them. In addition, four other Soviet diplomats previously stationed in Norway were forbidden to return to the country. In 19H3, H2 Soviet citizens were expelled from European nations, 41 from Asia, one from Africa and II from the Western Hemisphere, including five from the United States. By comparison, 49 Soviets wert· ordered home in 1982, and 27 were expelled worldwide in 
19HI. -AP 

AMobile, Ala. circuitjudge, breaking Alabama 
precedent, overruled his jury Thursday and sentenced a Ku Klux Klansman to death. in the electric chair for killing a young black man and hanging the body from a camphor tree. Judge Braxton Kittrell Jr. set an April .30 execution date fur Henry Francis Hays, who accurd­injol to testimony killed 19-year·old Michael Donald at random "to show Klan strength in Alabama." Hays repeatedly denied the killing. Appt:al ofa death sentence is automatic and such dates are routinely st:t aside. District Attorney Chris Galanos had callt:d the case a "crime of racial hatred" and urged Kittrell to impose the death penalty despitt: conflicting Alabama case law. A jury of I I whites and one black convicted Hays ofcapital murder on Dec. 20 and recom­mended a sentence of life in prison without possibility of parole. ­
AP 

A woman and two men died early yesterday 
when tire swept through the upper floor of tht: two-story, century­old Houston Hotel in downtown Noblesville, Ind., authorities said. CoronerJohn Randall identified one victim as Marshall Jeffrey New­man, .3 1, of Florida, who was visiting a girlfriend in Noblesville. Names ofthe other victims were not released immediately. Authori­ties said autopsies were performed Thursday afternoon on the vic­tims, who were badly burned. -AP 
Of Interest 

Supreme court justices from Michigan and 
Colorado, in addition to tht• chief judge of the United States Court of International Trade, will preside at the final arguments of the Law Sehoul's 34th annual Moot Court today at 4: l 5 p.m. in the Memorial Library auditorium. Notre Dame third-year law students participat­ing in the trial will be Patrick Pedro, Matthew Miklave, Sheila McCarthy and Robert Slevin. The case involves an allegedly fraudulent sale ofstock based on misrepresentation. The purchaser is suing under the S~curities and Exchange Act of 1934 and the more recent Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization Act. Presid­ing will be Edward Re, head ofthe trade court since I980.Jean Eber­hart Dubofsky of Colorado and James Ryan of Michigan will join Re as jurists. The public is invited, and there is no admission charge. 
Janet Kitts will give a graduate clarinet recital 
Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. 
Kitts will perform works by Matt Doran, johann Kalliwoda, Camille 
Saint-Scans and a darinet trio by Beethoven. -The Obsen,er 
Weather 

Don't take the coats offyet, because the high today will bt· only .34 degrees. Scattered showers should turn to snow, then end. leaving partly cloudy skies. 
The Observer ( lfS~ 599 l·~OOO) is puhlish<·d Monday through Friday Jn<l on home.· football Salurdap., cxn:pt 
lluring c.•xam and \'ac.·ation period!'!. The 
Observer is puhlish<·<l hy th<· .tud~nts of the.· l 'niversity of Notre.· Dame and Saint Mary·~ College. Suhscription!'l my ht· pur<·ha.,~d for Sl~ pc:r )Tar (51'; p<·r !'lt'mc.·stc.·r) h)' writing The Observer, 
P.O. !lox (J. Notre Dame Indiana ·i6<;<;6. The Observ<or is a member ofThe As­
~odated Press. All rcprodul'tion ri~ht~ 
an· reserved. 


Today's issue was produc.:t·d hy: 
Oesig11 Editor.............................. Tom Small D£•sigtl Assistant.. . ...... Usa Vi!-~inRanH Layout Staff.......... !lob. Tammy. Paul. Su~ 1)pesetters... ................... l'raq·. Knin. Vi<· Neu•s Editor...... ... Mary Jkaky Copy Editor... ..... Krvin !linger Sports Cop)' /:'dltor . ................. ..Jdf Blumh Vieupointl.ayout .. .... Mike.· McCaughey Featurt•s CfJPY Ftiitor.. .... Pc.·u:r Ciotta f'etltures l.ayuut ... .. .. .. Sarah Hamill on N/J /Jay Editor. ...................Jdf IIarrington Ad Design.... . ....... lloh Slota PholoRrapher... . .. Paul Cifardli 

Friday, February 3, 1984 -page 2 
A United States Death Star? 


President Reagan has suddenly decided that he favors 
an increased use of outer space. In last week's State of 
the Union address, he called for the building of a 
permanently-manned space station. Supposedly, this 
would bolster the American morale and have all kinds 
ofwonderful technological benefits for mankind. 
This is the same president who has cut offfunding for 
most NASA programs, including a proposed rendezvous 
with Halley's Comet and all future unmanned deep­
space probes. Indeed, the Space Shuttle was only com­
pleted because the military had uses for it. 
So would Reagan have requested funding for a new space project if he did not envision military uses for it? Although the Pentagon claims that it has no use for a space station, it is easy to discover a use for the technol­ogy that would be needed to build one. 
In his now-famous "Star Wars speech" last year, Reagan proposed the building of a space-based, anti­ballistic missile system. This program included laser platforms in orbit which would shoot down enemy missiles in flight. Supposed-o ly, this will "change the course of human history" by "making nuclear weapons impotent and obsolete." 
The proposed program is, of course, far beyond exist­ing technology. It could be developed, however, with­out raising a public outcry against another new weapons system, by supporting the kind of in­vestment Tn space that stirred the hearts of the American people in the 60s. 
Investment in space is the 
goal of one campus group, 
the L-5 Society. Even its 

members oppose Reagan's ABM plan because they are 
against the use or placement of nuclear weapons in 
space, although one member privately admits that they 
will accept it if there is no other way to provoke govern­
ment interest in space. 

It is.a mistake, however, to support an ABM system 
for any reason. If the goal is to develop space for in­
dustry, medicine and raw science, then it should be 
done for that purpose alone. But the use of space for a 
new arms race is a grave mistake. 

The Bishops' Letter on War and Peace stated that the 
theory of deterrence was not morally acceptable, but that it was tolerable as long as concerted efforts are ·being made to reduce nuclear weapons. An ABM 
strategy is not tolerable. 

For an ABM system to have any value, it would have 
to be 100 percent effective. It would be stupid to rely 
on a system which knocks down nine-tenths of the 
incoming missiles when the remainder could destroy 
Tom Mowle 
Assistant News Editor 
Inside Friday 
your country anyway. Stupid and costly. 
Many experts believe that initiating an ABM system would increase, ratht·r than decrease the chances of war, since the Soviets would respond by buildingone of their own. As soon as one side thought its defenses were invulnerable, it seems possible that they might black­mail the other. 
On the rose-colored paper the plan is written on, this would not happen since the side with invulnerable defenses would dismantle its weapons and enter a gold­en, post-nuclear Camelot. It is more likely that as soon as ABM systems go into use, 0 0 Anti-ABM and Anti-AABM systems will he n~eded. As long as these so-called defensive system~ can be neutralized, everyone will 
0 keep their weapons. 0 Even if nuclear weapons
0 

were dismantled, a new balance of terror would replace the old. A weapon 0 which can shoot down a bal­0 0 listic missile travelling at 0 thousands of miles per hour could also be used very ef­
0 

0 o, fectively against non­
MiJ 
moving military installations on the ground. 

The only worthwhile argument for the creation of an ABM system would be that it could be used to knock down an accidental missile launch. For this purpose, only a very primitive system -such as the one now allowed by treaty ­would he needed. There would be no need for orbiting battle stations to knock down a single errant missile. 
The technological benefits of developing space are certain. It is pleasant to see that the nation's leaders are beginning to remember that. But the costs ofdevelop­ing space through the military are too high, and not in dollars. Placing weapons in space would move the doomsday clock even closer to midnight. 
The Observer puhllsh~s iiS official opi nlon in t h~ form ofan unsign~d. 
largt"·pri nt, wide-column aniclc on the Edltorial.s page. Thesccolum ns represent the opi nlon of a majority ofTbeObsertln edlwrial board. All other columns, on the Editorials page or otherwise, arc the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily rctleCA the views oft he editorial board orTbeOb· 
server staff. 
Buy
OtJserver 
Classifieds 
CANCER. 
NOT KNOWING 
THE 
RISKS IS YOUR 
GREATEST RISK. 
Alot of people think 
cancer is unbeatable. 
That simply isn't true. 
In fact, over two million 
people have had cancer 
and smvived to lead 
happy, normal lives. 
And not only can cancer be beaten, it can also be prevented. 
There are definite precautions that have been prnven to decrease your risk of getting certain cancers. 
Ask your local American Cancer Society to send you a free booklet atxJut cancer risks. 
Learn the facts about cancer. And make not know­ing the risks, one less risk. 
i= 
How you live may save yoUr life. 

ITALIAN PIZZA 
~~ALL PIZZAS HAVE A THIN CRUST AND REAL CHEESE BASE 

We will make your pizz~ to your liking wlth any or all of the fallawtng additional tappings: 
Extra cheese, Italian sausaqe, Pepperoni. Ham. 
Sweet  ~eppers,  Mushrooms,  Onions.  Green  
Olives,  lack Olives.  
SANDWICHES  

SERVED ON AN BINCH ROLL WITH SWEET PEPPERS, 
PEPPEROCINI PEPPERS OR PICKLE SPEAR. Polish sausage w/kraut . $1.99 Italian Sausage w/sauce $1.99 Italian Beef w/juice .... $-2.81 Combination Beef &Sausage $3.67 Submarine .... $2.90 Ham &Cheese . $2.67 
NO OTHER COUPONS OR DISCOUNTS PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE 
FREE DELIVERX ND &SMC w/$6 order 
·Jnlis4 Jrinre Ji~~eria 
18061-State Road 23 • 112 Block West of Ironwood on 23 
272-8030 
The Observer Shultz denies that commission recommended Nicaraguan invasion 
Associated Press vador to protect U.S. interests. suppress the press. They are the Shultz told a news conference the people who built up an armed force 
CARACAS, Venezuela-Secretary charge was a "figment of his that goes beyond anything that ' ofState George Shultz said yesterday (Ortega's) imagination" and shows anyone could conceivably think is that Nicaragua's rulers are suppress­that "Mr. Ortega and his colleagues needed for their own defense." ing freedom of speech and religion must be worried." and "must he worried" about the "IfI were them I'd be worried too. Both Shultz and Ortega were here 
survival of their leftist government. After all they are the people who for the inauguration yesterday of Shultz dismissed an allegation, betrayed their revolution. They are President jaime Lusinchi. 
made Wednesday by Nicaraguan the people who have harassed the junta leader Daniel Ortega, that the church and the pope. They are the In Washington, Henry Kissinger Kissinger commission on Central people who declared an amnesty also said through a spokesman, Herb 
Amt·rica secretly recommended to and found I,000 Miskito Indians Hetu, that the charge of the White House that the United leaving the country," Shultz said. recommending an invasion was States invade Nicaragua and El Sal-"They are the people who false. 
Life saving certification refused 
By MAUREEN O'ROURKE Sawicki and Kathleen White, taught classes. And the girls in the WSI News Staff the course, said Thompson. They course will be allowed to St;Iy." received all t heir materials and in­Carolyn Kelly, a student who took 
AP Photo

Students denied certification for a structions from the Red Cross, but the life saving course, said she was !Newsman collars suspectlife saving course taught at Saint didn't teach two required classes. not informed until jan. 24 that she Mary's last semester will be certified Without these classes, the Red Cross was not certified. 
Houston Police training officer jim Conley watches as As­sociated Press Houston Correspondent Mike Graczyk holds a
when they have completed two re­would not certify students complet­"At first I was annoyed and I wasn't 
' burglary suspect at bay. Graczyk participated with ~ther police
quired classes omitted from the ing the course. sure what we were going to do," she course, said Mary Lou Thompson, Sawicki and White, who are both reporters in a clinic held to help understand the situations many
said. "But it ends up we have to make chairman of the physical education on leave this semester, taught under up the two classes." officers encounter daily. 
department at Saint Mary's. Thompson's supervision. "I don't The course was sponsored by the know why they left out those two American Red Cross and is a prereq­classes," said Thompson, "Neither of 
Tonight Show guest to give talk at SMC 
uisite for the Water Safety Instruc­the girls are here this semester to ex­tion course in which several plain. But the two classes that the ByJAMES JANSEN the Army and Los Angeles. 
Her witty, often irreverent, piecesuncertified students are now en­students missed are in the process of News Staff "Fran Lebowitz is known for her 
in Mademoiselle were the basis for 
rolled, said Thompson. being made up and the students will 
humorous satire of commonplace her first book, Metropolitan Life. 
Two Saint Mary's students, Anne be certified when they finish these Fran Lebowitz, best-selling satirist things. She's a good prospect for a Published in 1978, the book is a for Mademoiselle Magazine. will humorous talk," said Madeline 
light-hearted study ofurban mores. make the big jump from the Tonight Hoch, vice president of Stud~nt Af­
F__......,.;Q""............ ............ ...... ...... __....._,._,.__.....__.....__.....__..... __.......,_
__..... __..... __..... _,._,..,...._,._,..,.....,....~....cr...o-..r..r..r..rJ"".....-__........... ...... 
Show to Saint Mary's College Tues-fairs. In 198I she followed up her first day at 8 p.m. Lebowitz, a native of Morristown, book with Social Studies. The Appearing in Carroll Hall, the N.j., was a New York City cab driver ~uccess ofher two books landed her
I ROCCO'S I 
humorist will relate anecdotes from before becoming a columnist for guest spots on both the Tonight her most recent book, Social Mademoiselle Magazine. She says Show and Late Night with David
I RESTAURANT I 
Studies, in which she throws jabs at she always knew she would be a Letterman. everyone from children and pets to writer.
§ § Currrently she is trying to transfer
:r..r.r..r..r..r..r.r..r..rJ""..r..rJ""..r..r...o-..rJ""..r..r..r..r..r..r..r.r..r..r..r..r..r..r..rJ""..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r'"'R 
her humor and sarcasm to fiction~ I ~ writing and plans to publish a novel
§ South Bend's Original Pizza S ~ The Paddy Noonan Band and ~ 
soon.

§ Comedian Hal Roach present: § 
Her talk, which is free ofcharge, is
§ Featuring a full line of Italian food § 
being sponsored by the Saint Mary's 
Also beef and sausage sandwiches ~ I an "Evening in Ireland" ~ Student Government. 

~ (their spec:ial tour of the U.S. and Canada) ~ 
~ r~ §Open weekdays 5 pm tilll am ~ § I'd Feb. 13 8:00PM Washington Hall § weekends 5 pm till 2 am § § a\ • Feb. 14 8:00PM O'Laughlin Aud. (SMC) §§ ckets: $5 with ND/SMC J.D. §
closed Sun and Mon § 
~ $7 general admission §§ (tickets available at S.U. ticket Office and §
§ § 
§ O'Laughlin Aud.) § 
§ ~ Carry-Out 233-2464 I§ § 537 N. St. Louis St. § i ~ I 
s §
L LI:"'J.:>'""./"J'"........................__.....__.....__.....__...........__.........................................__.................__...........__.....__.....__.....__.....__........o"'..................................................oBO""J'"J'".,.;Q"",/"./"J'"..r./"..;Cr,/"....-J""J'"..O""J'"....-J""..rJ""....crJ"".r.r...o"'.rJ"".r.r.rJ""..r..r.r.r..r..r...l 
All interested in writb:.g for the Scholastic second Semester: 
WRITER'S MEETING 
Mon. February 6 
7:30 PM Scholastic Office 3rd Floor LaFortune 
ATTENTION Notre Dame HolyCross St. Mary's 

300 
Students Are Needed To Work Jr. Parents Weekend February 17-18-19, 1984 

I

Three Lo,cations to report to: f 
South Dining HaU Office (Basement) Mrs. WUey(239·6147) North Dining Hall Office (Mgr. Office) Mrs. Wydwynski (239·6176) Registrar's Office (Vali·Dine I.D. Office) Ms. Rupert (239·7814) 
Waiters· Waitresses· Laborers· Expediters U'ivele1ty Food Services"! Notre Dame 1984 Ivy Award Winner 
GUADALAJARA 
SUMMER 
SCHOOL 

University of Arizona offers more than 40 courses: anthropology, art! bilingual educa­tion, folk music and folk dance, history, political science, sociology, Spanish language and literature and intensive Spanish. Six-week ses­sion. July 2-August 10, 1984. Fully accredited program. Tuition $410. Room and board in. Mexican home, $435. 
EEO/AA 

Write Guadalajara Summer School Robert l. Nugent 205 University of Arizona Tucson 85721 (6021 621-4729 
The Observer 


south side, will contain spacious, comfortable offices for most ofthe Arts and Letters faculty. It consists ofthreefour-story sections, which togeth· er encompass 75,000 square feet.
completed April/. The building, shou'11from the 
su<.:h legislation lay with the federal over interstate traffic where age dif· govcrnmcnt or with the states. ferences in drinking laws exist.
Drink 
"Similar hills have recently been Other suggestions included setting continuedfrom page 1 ddeatcd in several states already," up a "regional age" for drinking h~·cn considcrahlc opposition he notcd. rather than individual state ages. 
largdy from thc liquor industry. Sievcrs also accuscd thc hills of "This is going to get a lot of atten· 
"Th~·y arc vcry wdl financed and hdng dis<:riminatory against 
tion this Spring, and literally any·vt·ry wdl organizt·d," commcntcd fcmaks, saying that thc statistics 
thing can happen," Daghlian said. 
l>aghlian. "They arc in<:rcdihly show that the majority of young 
"This may be a long battle...but we powerful in tht· lobby." pcopk involvcd in alcohol-rclatcd 
are certainly prepared for that." 
Boh Sil'vt·rs, rcprt·s~·ntativc of thc accidcnts arc male. Distillnl Spirits Council, cxplaincd Sicvcrs was open to altcrnativc Daghlian predicted that action on tht· liquor industry's major gripc either hill will probably be taken in
channels ofaction, howevcr. Hc sup· with thc n~·w lcgislation. I k said that portcd thc cducation of thc gcncral thc first six months of this year due there was a constitutional qucstion puhlic conccrning drinking and to upcoming elections and the Con­as to wh~·thcr or not the powcr for driving and the incrcascd omtrol gressional recess. 
Lutheran Center for Substance Abuse of Park Ridge, Illinois and University of Notre Dame 
ANNOUNCE A 

YOUNG ADULTS ALCOHOLISM/SUBSTANCE ABUSE SEMINAR 
February 10, 1984 9:00am -4:00pm 
University of Notre Dame Moreau Seminary Auditorium Notre Dame, Indiana 
PROGRAM SCHEDULE 

9:00-9:30 Registration and coffee 
9:30-10:30 Alcoholism/Substance Abuse and Vann A. Smith, Ph.D., Clinical the Young Adult: A Highly Neuropsychologist Specializing Treatable Illness in Adolescent Alcoholism/Substance 
Abuse, Staff Psychologist at 10:30-10:.45 Questions and Answers Parkside Lodge of Mundelein, Inc.'s Youth Program, Mundelein, Illinois 
10:45-11:00 Break 

11:00-12:00 Attitudes and the Recovery Process Sally Coleman, M.A., Community Representative for Lutheran Center for Substance Abuse, Park Ridge, Ill. 
12;00-1:15 Lunch 

1:15-2:15 Intervention: Methods, Plans and Jack Clark, M.H.S., C.A.C. (Sr.). Strategies to Engage the Young Director of Outpatient Department, Adult in the Treatment Pmcess Lutheran Center for Substance Abuse, 
Park Ridge, Illinois 
2:15-2:30 Break 

2:30-3:30 Panel Discussion by Recovering Young Adults 
3:30-4:00 Questions, Answers and Wrap-Up 
---------~------,-~--~-~-~-------~----~ 
For Information, call 239-7336 or 1 YOUNG ADULTS For Reservations, Mail Attached Registration 
I ALCOHOLISM/SUBSTANCE ABUSE SEMINAR To: Luis Valdes II 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Coordinator Outreach Service!:> 
I 
University of Notre Dame 

I Address--------------------------------------­
C.P.S.C. Department, Infirmary Building 1 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 I City------------------State--------Zip --­(219) 239-7336 1 
I Phone -----------------Number Attending--­
1 
J 

r 
Friday, February 3, 1984 -page 4 
SMC program to send students around world 
By GWEN TADDONIO 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's Around the World Program, which last year allowed students to travel in Europe and Asia and meet Indian Prime Minister In· dira Gandhi, begins its second semester this fall. 
The program, which runs each fall semester, last fall sent its pioneer, History Professor Cyriac Pullapilly and nine studcnts to India, China, the Soviet Union,Japan and Europe. 
While Pullapilly admits thc program is still on an experimental basis and there were "major problems," hc maintained that everyone secmed happy with the program. 
Students take 16 crcdits at Stella Maris College in Madras, India. As part of their curriculum, students take many ficld trips, including a Hindu wedding. 
"The girls had to accomplish one semester's work in 9 weeks as opposed to 15 weeks here at St. Mary's and Notre Dame," Pullapilly said, discussing the difficulty of the program. "Therefore, thc cla.'ises 
werc much more rigorous and dis­ciplined." 
l11e students met privately with 

Mrs. Gandhi for two hours and were 
impressed with hcr opcnness to 
questioning and the overall honor Of 
the occasion. 
Saint Mary's Beth Walsh, who 

went on the trip last year, says that 
thc "difference in culture and ap­
proach to life between Asia and the 
Western world" impressed hcr thc 
most. Her only regrct concerning 
thc trip was that "there just wasn't 
enough time in some places we 
visited to sec everything." 
The cost for the excursion is the Saint Mary's fcc for tuition and board plus S2, 500. All Saint Mary's and Notre Dame women are eligible. This ycar Pullapilly hopes to takc at least 20 women. 
As of now, Pullapilly is not aut­horized to take men on the trip, though the notion is still under con­sideration by the College's Board of Directors. Thc application deadline has been extended from Feb. it 5 to Feb. 29 because of the student's need for consideration time, Pulapil­ly said. Applications arc available at Pullapilly's office in room 336 of Madeleva Hall. 
rCorby'sl 

Friday Afternoon 3·8 PM "Unwind Time" 
·~J··~· AllMixed Drinks ... 2/or 1 
Go Irish! Beat 
12oz Drafts ...........60¢
South Carolina 

;:;;:::;:.::.~-=~: ~~=:? £21 
A disca••lon for tho•e who feel that organized ReUglon no longer •eet• their loleed•, or, perhap•, even •tlfle• their develop•ent 
Date: Sunday, Feb. 5 Time: 4 p.m. Place: Fatima Retreat Center 
(Acroaa ho• eauaace to SIIIC) 
Cost: $4 (Student rate -inclade• dinner) InformationI Reservations 234-1067 
TheInstitutefor 
ParalegalTraining
works. 
Sodo itsgraduates. 
Four months of intensive training can add market value to your college degree. 
A sampling of jobs our graduates hold: LEGISLATIVE RESEARCHER, MUNfCIPAL BOND PARALEGAL, REAL ESTATE MARKETING DIRECTOR, ESTATES & TRUSTS LEGAL ASSISTANT, ENERGY SPECIALIST, ANTITRUST SPECIALIST, CORPORATE BENEFITS PLANNER, ENVIRONMENTAL LAW SPECIALIST 
• 
Through our corporate contacts, our national search team and our computenzed placement service, we have placed over 5,000 of our graduates m law firms, banks and corporations nationwide. 

• 
You can specialize in one of seven areas of the law. 

• 
All courses include training in computer applications to legal practice. 

• 
If we cannot secure a job for you in the city of your choice, we provide a substantial tu1tion refund. 

• 
Financial aid and housing are available. 


We'll be at your campus on February 29 Contact your placement office to see our resource book on law-related careers and to arrange for a group presentation or a personal interview. 
r--------------­
Mail this coupon to: RUND
To learn more, call collect: 

I The Institute for Paralegal Training, I
(215) 567-4811. Or, return 

I 1926 Arch Street, Philadelphia. PA 19103 I
the coupon. 

I Please send a free copy of your catalogue. I1 0 Philadelphia 0 Houston I
THE !NSJTTUfE 

1 1 Name•-------------I
'l 1 fQ)Ruf~IW£GAL 
I Address------------------1
TRAINING J City-------State __Zip------J 
Philadelphia

Houston I College (yr. of grad.) I 
I Phone I
._____________.___.:::::o:__.::::.::____J 



View)?-oint 
Friday, February 3, 1984 -page 5 
Bell curves not the best way to grade 
p • 0 • BoxQ 
ampus comment: Who should speak at Notre Dame's commencement? 
I'd like to see Sen. Kennedy speak at I think that Pope John Paul II would Considering the incidents ofthe past 
our graduation because he's my idol. be an excellent commencement year, I would like to see Pope John speaker. He is the only world figure Paul speak at graduation. I really that would be worth listening to. admire him for all he has done. 
TerrlYahia Maryalice Reagan Ted Haussler JulleDir SasanSadr Liberal Studies Government/ALPA Govemment/CAPP Psychology Aerospace Engineering Classof'84 Classof'84 Classof'84 Classof'84 Classof'84 

I'd like to hear Woody Allen speak at graduation because commence­ment is three hours long and we could use a great sense ofhumor. 
I would like to see Lee Iacocca. I heard rumors of him being invited and I think his success-oriented business spirit would be a great boost to the outgoing seniors. 
Hidden in the back pages of one of last weeks local papers was a story about a lawyer suing the California Bar Association for using a "bell curve" grading system. 
The lawyer claims he failed his first bar ex­am because his grade was on the wrong part of 
Chip Block 
Guest column 

the curve, not because ofa poor grade. Words such as discrimination, prejudice and defama­tion of character were scattered throughout the article, but the real issue is the fairness ofa "hell curve." 
I have spent five years at Notre Dame split­ting my time between the College of Engineering and the College of Arts and Let­ters and_ have felt the mighty hand of both the "bell curve" and traditional grading methods. 
. The d,ifference the grading system makes is stagger\pg. Attitudes toward grades and per­formanqe seem completely different in the two colleges and the "btell curve" probably is the source ofthe difference. 
Students in both colleges have a guessing­game approach to work. In Arts and Letters, the object ofthe game is figuring out, or guess­ing, what the professor expects and wants from the students. Many students write bril­liant essays but receive lower grades because the professor disagrees with the opinion of the paper. 
Similarly, other professors worry less about opinions and more about clarity, writing style and all the other things taught in freshmen writing. 
Guessing also invades the work ofengineer­ing students. Theirs, however, has more to do with the other students than with the profes­sor. "Beat the average and you'll do fine" is the general philosophy of most engineering stu­dents. So if the student can guess the quantity of knowledge of other studen-ts, he can get a higher grade. 
The biggest fault with the bell curve is that students tend to work because ofcompetition with other students, not for the betterment of themselves. Is competition really the purpose of grades? Are grades made to separate the smart students from those of lesser intel­ligence, or should they test a student's com­prehension ofclass material? 
The bell curve was originally intended to 
help students receive a fair test, but the basic 
ideal of the curve has been lost. For example, 
on one test a grade of4 5 percent received a B, 
but the curve came out even. If the average 
student only knew 45 percent ofthe material, 
either the test was unfair or nobody learned 
anything in the class. 

The professor had made the test, difficult be­cause the previous test in the class had produced an unrven curve weighted to the high side. 
Obviously there is a problem with this philosophy. If a student knows the material, shouldn't that be enough justification for a good grade? Or is it necessary to know the material better than the student sitting in the next seat? 
Ifgrades are meant to separate students, as some believe, then the bell curve works to perfection. Not all professors use a strict bell curve, but instead weigh the curve slightly to the higher side. However, even a weighted curve doesn't solve all the problems. 
Anew proi:Hem with the curve has grown
. 

out of the increasing size of the Engineering College. More and more professors are tur­. ning to multiple-choice tests to handle the heavy grading load. A curved grading system 
and multiple-choice tests just don't mix.. 
If two students answer the same number of 
questions correctly but each guess on four· or 
five other questions (a natural result of mul­
tiple choice tests) then the best guesser not 
only helps his grade but lowers the other stu­
dents mark. 

Guessing for a good grade is fine, students 
have be~n doing it for decades. But to receive 
a lower grade because other students got 
lucky on their guesses is unfair. 
The system has a few benefits. It prevents 
grade inflation -something most students 
wouldn't mind seeing. But the University 
must prevent it to keep a go-od academic 
reputation. The curve can help students who 
are given an unfair test, though fixing the test 
is a better solution than fixing the grades. 
In the end, the bell curve tends to em­
phasize grades more than material, competi­
tion more than learning. A law suit may not be 
a solution but a close examination ofgrading 
policy certainly couldn't hurt. 
Mrs. Goodman 
DearEditor: 
Congratulations to Richard Cohen on notic­ing that Mrs. Goodman was white. That ob­vious fact escaped the attention of the news reels before her husband gained his freedom. 
The question I wish Cohen had asked was why Mrs. Goodman was not shown on televi­sion before her husband's release? And why haven't any editorialists or reporters in major newspapers noted this obvious question other than Cohen? 
Unfortunately, I suggest the reason Mrs. Goodman was ignored before her husband's release is because public support for Good­man and the Jackson "mission" would have plummeted if it were known that Mrs. Good­man is white. 
Someone, perhaps the news media, with the interest of Lt. Goodman at heart, may have advised the family to keep Mrs. Goodman off the air and substitute the lieutenant's sister and parents on news shows before Goodman's release. 
Recognizing the fact of life that interracial marriages do not foster sympathy among many persons in any race, one cannot fault the media for protecting the Goodman's interest. However, why have they not admitted this ruse since Goodman's release? It is an issue that merits discussion. 
Tom Leahy 
Irish map? 

Dear Editor: 
We wish to draw your attention to an error in the Jan. 31 Observer. We refer to the Sweepstakes sponsored by General Foods In­ternational Coffee. Map I on the entry form is, we believe, meant to represent Ireland. This we concluded through a process of elimina­tion. However, being Irish, we are angered by the exclusion ofsix ofthe northern counties! 
Geographically, Ireland is the larger of the two islands which make up the British Isles. No political boundaries are recognised on that island by the great majority ofits people or by the Constitution of the Republic of Ireland. 
We would therefore be grateful if you could communicate this to those responsible for the organization and judging of this contest. We are anxious to submit the "four" correct answers. 
Hugh McManus Peter Flanagan 
Theo department 
DearEditor: 

Your recent front-page article on the Theol­ogy Department may have conveyed the im­pression to the less well informed that until three years ago the department was languish­ing in medieval squalor, generally thought to be much worse than our modem squalor. 
This impression is not only false but unfair to the accomplishments of previous ad­ministrators who, in spite of very limited resources (compared to those now available), helped to build a department which has come to enjoy a large measure of esteem in the academic community. 
And since recruiting was specifically men­tioned,it should also be pointed out that it has remained at about the same level over the last three years as over the previous decade in spite ofgreatly increased resources. 
Because of its size and complexity the theology department has special needs which call for vigorous advocacy. The acknowledge­ment of this situation does·not, however, re­quire us to forget or, worse, misrepresent the accomplishments of the past, even the quite recent past. 
Joseph Blenkinsopp Dept. ofTheology 


EditorialBoard DepartmentManagers 
Edltor-in-Chief...............................David Dziedzic 
P. 0. BoxQ, NotreDame,IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the studenrs of the Uni­Executive Editor................................. Paul McGinn Controller...............................................Alex Szilvas versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect News Editor................................. Bob Vonderheide Advertising Manager .........................jeanie Poole the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­News Editor....................................Mark Worscheh CirculationManager.........................Mark Miotto curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon ofa Saint Mary's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski Systems Manager ...........................Kevin Williams majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, an<l_tl;KJ)~<J¢ Column present Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community, Viewpoint Editor................................Keith Picher Founded November 3, 1966. and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Features Editor...............................Sarah Hamilton 
Photo Editor ..........................................Scott Bower 

Friday, February 3, 1984 -page 6 
Showcase 
Billy Joel's m 
by Pat Beaudine 
features staff writer 
L
ast night's crowd at the ACC was hungry for a concert event. Ap­parently, Loverboy's recent visit and Rick Springfield's show last year didn't satisfy anyone's appetite be­cause when BillyJoel took the stage, the place erupted. Joel responded admirably, hy delivering a stellar performance. 
Joel began with a flawless rendi­tion of"Angry Young Man." And even though this title doesn't fit him anymore, he sang it quite convinc­ingly as he sat at his familiar grand piano. "My Life" and "The Stranger" followed, each being identical to the recorded version and receiving strong applause. After "The Stran­ger" he seemed at perfect ease as he joked with the audience about t.he acoustics and the unfortunate people sitting behind the stage. IIis version of the Notre Dame Victory March surely didn't hurt his rapport with the fans either. 
Modestly introduced as "a song from 1973," "Piano Man" followed. "Just The Way You Are" and Clearly a crowd favorite, it moved "Innocent Man" came soon after. the exuberant fans in floor seating to Like "Piano Man" both were power­a swaying mass, and proved that a ful renditions that equaled the song doesn't have to lose any ofits studio versions. Then came emotional impact even after 1 l "Stiletto" and the excitement esc­years. Two songs later, those on the alated. Its catchy intro and rock edge floor again led an eruption as the blended perfectly into the follow­band played a sparkling version of ups "Just a Fanta.~y" and "It'sJust "Allentown," complete with grunts Rock-n-Roll To Me." The latter song and hanging pipes. encouraged resounding applause, 
"Goodnight Saigon," the next but it took the opening chords of song, cooled things off a little. The "Uptown Girl" to get the crowd on slumped VietNam veterans who its feet. The party had finally hegun. lent vocal support, Joel's emotional Not only was it a phenomenal live delivery, and his peace sign at the performance; the party atmosphere end all served to make this song a was enhanced by Christie Brinkley's highlight. antics. Brinkley wa.~ escorted to the 
Nostalgia 

great television program. The kids liked it; for adults, it was mindless entertainment belonging to the cultural wasteland_ One watched it if he was too lazy to change the dial. Now "Beaver" comes on the At­lanta station, and it feels like I'm back home with old friends. "Beaver" is a representative ofthe world as it was before Lee Harvey Oswald fired his bullets in Dallas, changing history into a nightmare ofdomestic violence. Purgatory could consist in watching back-to-. back re-runs of"Harriet and Ozzie." When you're stuck in the Holiday Inn without a book, "Harriet annd Ozzie" are as welcome as huckleberries after "Dallas" and "Soap". 
For a decadt: or two now, I have noticed that the young have ap­propriated the cultural heroes ofmy generation as their own; there are Humphrey Bogart festivals at the Brattle Street theater in Cambridge. Nostalgia is a game that any two can play. Maybe in five years I will be collecting the albums of David Bowie or the Three Dog Night, though I have no plans. Pop culture has a f.lllout like a hydrogen bomb, and the o!dest and the youngest get exposed in surprising ways. I still think Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire lived a more gracious lifestyle in "Top Hat." I thought so as a school boy in the Thirties. I thought so when the Beatlesfirst sang, "I Want to Hold Your Hand." I thought so when Simon and Garfunkel were lyrical about Mrs. Robinson and Joe DiMaggio. I knew so whenJanisJoplin lamented over "Me and Bobby Magee." "Top Hat" made me want to dance. The others, catching me by surprise, bring tears. Sadness can be a rewarding emotion. 
Life isn't just heautiful in the lost childhood, before you took a job with the corporation. You realize that when you are watching"E.T." in perfect contentment, as happy as when you first saw "Snow White And the Seven Dwarfs" in the year it came out. 
Nostalgia can leave you stuck in a time warp. unless you keep ad­ding to it all the time. I felt choked up at dinner last week in the North Dining Hall. remembering friends I used to meet there_ Maybe it's a signal of how great the Notre Dame years have been. I keep gathering daily rosehuds to take with me. I hope to make them im­mortal as part ofthe soul! go with to heaven. Ifeternity is an endless liturgy performed to the music of the St. LouisJes~its, I'll need my memories oftht· voices ofJo Stafford and Nat King Cole to keep me from getting restless . 
.iX.§S.IWZJ¥ ag..Jm.£&t&f11!!-&t1W£1Mi!b4 

Friday, February 3, 1984 -page 7 
re than just rock-n-roll 
concert by football captain Blair Kiel. 
"Big Shot" immediately followed, giving thousands a chance to stop drooling and pick up their jaws off the floor, but the excitement never waned. Ifanything, it intensified as the band trotted offfor intermission. And whenJoel returned for the first encore, "Tell Her About It," the noise was incredible. Once again, it was a flawless live version. "You May Be Right" was the next encore, and a perfect show-stopper.

by this time, the audience was in 
such a frenzy that one gentleman The show more than lived up to 
J;isked security and bounded on expectations. At it's worst it was stage. Maybe he just wanted to good entertainment, and at it's best dance with Billy or provide some it exhibited Joel's new attitude and backup vocals. He was removed ability to transfix an audience. About regardless. Another intermission 
the only thing he can be accused of ~~==~~~===================:;;:;;;:;;:::;:;::J
followed with the relentless fans is playing it safe by performing shouting for "Only the Good Die studio-like live versions. But when it Young." When the band did return is this good, that shouldn't make to the request, the songwas much ofa difference. 

Paul Cifarelli, Thorn Bradley/ The Observer 
He really is an innocent ntan 
by Sarah Hamilton 
features editor 
mitted that this could change next 
week. 

Joel did not play either ofthese personal preferences last night. But he did play many ofhis songs that had dominated the charts when they were first released; he played what the people wanted to hear. This only reemphasizesJoel as "the enter­tainer" that he is. ButJoel said he is not tied to his careeras a piano man. In 1982,Rolling Stone magazine quotedJoel as saying that he would like a daughter who would think he was everything and a son with whom he could go fishing. But he only wants this family ifhe can spend time with it. The singer em­phasized that he would never stop writing music, but that he would change his touring schedule ifa family were involved. After all, "Touring is a young man's job. It was a lot easier at 19 than 34. Believe me, I know ..." 
Not that the question ofthe pos­sibility ofa family directly triggered the thought ofChristie Brinkley, but before excusing himselffor dinner Joel did mention that it was her birthday and with a genuine excite­ment explained, "We're going to try to get her out on the stage. She flew out just for this." Yesterday after­noonJoel said that his uptown girl did not want to make an appearance on stage, that she didn't want to be like Linda McCartney. Nevertheless, much to the thrill ofthe crowd, the cover girl did appear. 
Touring and performing might be becoming more difficult for Joel, but this was not apparent to last night's audience as they watchedJoel's fin­gers fly across the keyboard until they were sore, and bound across the stage often juggling a microphone or leapingfrom speaker to stage. PerhapsJoel's casual down­to-earth nature can best be under­stood by experiencing his natural rapport with an audience and ir­repressible energy in concert. 
BillyJoel may ask, "What's the big deal?" Well, the big deal is that there is no big deal. It is just an innocent man creating a carnival with his piano, just the way he is. 

•THEATRE 
The South Bend Civic Theatre will present "Who's Afraid of Vir­ginia Woolf?" at the Firehouse Theatre, 701 Portage Ave., tomorrow and Sunday at 8:30 p.m. The play, written by Edward Albee, is directed byJim Coppens. For reservations call 291-8923. 
•MOVIES 
This week's Friday Night Film Series presents "The White Rose" at 
7:30 in the Annenburg. A 1982 German ftlm, "Rose" depicts the true story of the dedication and courage of Hans and Sophie Scholl who, with a small group of fellow university students, form an under­ground movement opposed to Hitler and the Nazi regime. 
The Monday Night Film Series will present the ftlm "M" at 7 in the Annenburg. An actual police case inpired this story of a child mur­derer pursued by police and criminals alike. Admission for both of these is 52. 
•MASS 
The Masses this Sunday at Sacred Heart Church will have the following celebrants: 
Fr. James Burtchaell, at 5:15p.m. (Saturday night vigil) 
Fr. George Wiskirchen, at 9 a.m. 
Fr. John Lahey, at I0:30 
Fr. Mark Poorman, at 12:1 5 
•MISCELLANEOUS 
The Philosophy Department will present today its second lecturer 
in the 1983-84 Perspectives Series on the Philosophy of Law. Lec­
turerJoel Feinburghas has, for the past twenty-five years, employed 
contemporary philosophic method to illuminate a host of social, 
political, and legal dilemmas. He is best known to students for the 
several anthologies that he has edited and to scholars for his many 
essays. Today's lecture -"Omissions as Causes" will begin at 3:30 in 
the Hayes-Healy auditorium. 
Tomorrow night, a bus will be taking students to Bendix Woods 
for a tubing party. The bus will depart from the library circle at 7:30 
and leave Bendix Woods at 10. The fee is $2 and those interested can 
sign up at the SU record store. 
And ofcourse, for those ofyou lucky enough to have tickets, The 
Keenan Revue starts at 8 in O'Laughlin auditorium at Saint Mary's 
both tonight and Saturday night. 

1. 
Girls Just Want To Have Fun, Cyndi Lauper 

2. 
Send Me An Angel, Real Life 

3. 
Major Tom (Coming Home), Peter Schilling 

4. 
Karma Chameleon, Culture Club 

5. 
Jump, Van Halen 

6. 
Sign OfFire, Fixx 


7. 
Talking In Your Sleep, Romantics 

8. 
In A Big Country, Big Country 

9. 
That's All, Genesis 


10. 
Owner OfA Lonely Heart, Yes 


The WSND Top 10 is determined by requests, station opinion and national surveys. To vote for your current favorite listen to AM64 and call239­6400. Catch the New Music Revue Monday through Friday at 7 and 11 
p.m. The WSND Top 10 will appear each Friday in the Showcase section of The Observer. 
0 
ne might think that with more than six albums under his belt and five Grammys to his credit, Billy Joel would be like the big shot about whom he sang in last night'sconcert. But this Long Island man does not understand why people want to 
know so much about him. "What's the big deal?'' he asks. 
Despite his fame, Joel is still a backstreet boy. When asked to describe himself, his first response was, "hungry." The singer/songwriter had just finished checking the sound in the ACC which he called "a boom boom room" and wanted to get some din­ner before the concert. But serious­ly, "I don't really think in terms of me." 
Neither does he think in terms of his future or that ofhis music. He can never conceive ofthe direction his next songwriting venture will take. In the past, each album has possessed its own character; into each vinyl disk is pressed a theme. Joel does not know what inspires these themes, nor does he want to know. He is worried that ifhe thinks too much about where the songs are coming from they will not flow naturally. The albums are "sort of like little Broadway shows." Once they get started and the momentum builds, the songs just carry the al­bum through until it is a united whole. 
Ofall ofhis albums,Joel is most satisfied with TheNylon Curtain. The performer attributed its fulfill­ing qualities in part to the fact that it took over a year to produce. On the otherhand,AnlnnocentMan "went so quick and was so easy." 
It appeared that last night's audience would not have letJoel leave the ACC without singing "Only the Good Die Young" from his Stranger album. Other favorites of the crowd seemed to be "Piano Man," the title cut offhis first album, and "Stiletto," from the52nd Street album. The artist himselfcannot claim favorites. "They're like my kids. One day I'm more proud ofone than another, but I don't have favorites." Joeldid say that he prefers "Vienna," from The Stranger and "She's Right on Time," offofThe Nylon Curtain. However, he ad­
Sports Briefs 
The NO women's swimming team beat 
both Georgetown and johns Hopkins last weekend on the road by S<.·ores of 61-49 and 78-61, respectively. Irish coach Dennis Stark summed up the women's weekend, calling the victories "two good 
ins." The women travel to Bowling Green tomorrow for a meet, as 
oes the men's squad. -The Observer 
ATrack competitionis being sponsored by the NVA office. Events include 60-yard low hurdles, a mile run, a four-lap relay, 60-yard dash, 440-yard and 880-yard runs, an eight-lap relay, high jump, and broad jump. Points will be awarded for frrst and second place halls as ranked by points compiled by individuals. To sign up, call 239-6100 or stop by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observer 
A downhill ski trip to Royal Valley is being offered by the NVA. The trip, which includes transportation, lift tickets, ski rental. and lessons, covers the next two Tuesday nights. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6690. -The Observer 
A bowling league is being sponsored by the NVA office. There is a requirement that each roster have at least six people and the deadline for turning rosters is Feb. 8. Four members ofeach team will bowl each week for five weeks. -The Observer 
Friday, February 3, 1984 ____: page 8 
Interhall wrestling tournament entries are due Feb. 10 at the NVA office. Halls may register as teams, and contestants will be notified of date and time of tourney. Weight classes will be 123, 130, 137, 145, 152, 160, 167, 177, and unlimited.-The Observer 
Your Health is a three-night seminar sponsored by Cen­tury Club and NVA. The seminar runs this Sunday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, and is being held in the LaFortune Center Classroom (first floor). Lectures begin at 7 p.m. Sunday's lecture is "Why Good Health ...And By The Way, What is it?" featuring]elfAaron, director ofthe Health and Lifestyle Center. Register for the seminar by calling NVA at 239-6100. The cost is $3. -The Observer 
A cross country ski tour wm be sponsored by 
NVA tomorrow. A SI fee includes ski equipment, hot dogs, and hot chocolate during the two-and-a-half-hour trip. Register in advance by calling 239-6100.-The Observer 
The billiards tournamentbegins next week and 
registration will take place at the pool room desk. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Weightlifting Club will hold a meeting on Sunday, Feb. 5, at I p.m. in the third floor gymnas­tics room at the Rockne MemoriaL New officers will be elected and future plans will be discussed. New members are welcome. -The Observer 
Women go to MSUtonight 
Now that the Mary DiStanislao's women's basketball team appears to have broken out of its slump with convincing victories over Evansville and DePaul at home in the ACC, it must now hit the road to face Big Ten opponent Michigan State tonight at 7:.30. 
The I0-7 Spartans should present a tough challenge for the Irish front­line players because most of their scoring punch comes from inside players. Freshman Kris Emerson leads the offense with her I4.8 scoring average. The 5-li forward also leads the team in rebounding, averaging 9.4 rebounds per game. She will receive a lot of help from 6-.3 sophomore center Mary Kay McNall, last week's Big Ten player of the week. She received the award by scoring 48 points and pulling down 25 rebounds in two games. 
If the two get any help, it should come from the two veteran guards, Brenda jezowski and Julie Polakowski. ' 
Tbe Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tbe Observer Saint Mary's offic~ located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classified~ from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday though Friday. Deadline for next­day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person·
Classifieds 
or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING SERVICE 277-6045 WILL PICK UP & DELIVER 
Save 2!1'. Off Ll-' 

on your textbooks by order at Pandora's 
Books 

Two day delivery SONICOI 937 South fl<lrd Avenue at Corby Blvd Phone 233-2342 
KEENAN REVUE TICKETS ARE GENERAL ADMISSION. The numbero prlntld on the llckelo ARE NOT SEAT NUMBERS. Samlng lit the lhowolo 11111 llrot come, Iff-' oervld. 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES DEADLINE FRIDAY FEB 3AD!!! 
SPECIAL THIS WEEK AT THE RESTON FARM MARKET REAL MAJORS ARE ONLY $1.95 A POUND. GET YOURS TODAY 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME SUNBAT­HERS! Surfo up but our prlceo aren't. From )ullt $109.00 -opend 7 lun-11111<1 dayoln sunny Flortdo. Cell for yourMH or orgenlze 1 oman group and travel FREEl Gre-' for clubs, tool Coli LUV TOURS (800) J66.2006, Ilk lor An­
nette. 
WE HAVE A KING 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: DARK BLUE JACKET THURSDAY (1/26) AT RAFFERTY'S CARDIN ZIPPER JACKET. I'VE GOT YOURS WITH BUTTONS. CALL 288­S070. 
LOST. One gray and wh1le lhln·slnped long sleeve shtrt wtth a small hole on the lop leN shouldar II was accidentally pu11n someone·s laundry by St. MIChael's Laundry Serv1ce before Chnslmas. If you have 11. please return toJ1m at X1101. 
FOUND: A photograph ol two kmeno ond one not too -frd Fltz. Buddleo now ond lrlendolo,.ver. Cell 232~17. 
LOST:QUANTITATIVE METHODS TEXT AT SOUTH DINING HALL FRIDAY 1/20 AT APPAOX 1:15. ACTUALLY. I BELIEVE THIS TEXT WAS STOLEN. TO THE PERSON WHO STOLE IT IF YOU HAVE ANY CI,.ASS. EVEN A LITTLE BIT, PLEASE R~UAN THIS TEXT TO WHERE YOU FIRST APPREHENDED IT. NO Q QUESTIONS ASKED. IF YOU REFUSE TO DO SO YOU ARE SCUM AND I HOPE YOU ROT IN HELL. 
FOUND: ONE SET OF KEYS OUTSIDE OF CORBY'S THURS. NITE. CALL 1854 TO CLAIM. ENDAD 
LOST:Biack Cas1o calculator·watch, on Fri, Jan 27. II found. please call Mark at 1787. 
LOST: GOLD BEAD NECKLACE WITH DIAMOND CHIP SPACER BETWEEFI' MIDDLE BEADS IF FFOUND. PLEASE CALL MARY AT 283·6781 . 
LOST: BLUE NORTH FACE COAT ON JAN 18 AT SENIOR BAR. I THINK WE JUST EXCHANGED COATS. PLEASE CALL AT 1695. 
FOUND-gold Lorus quartz watch Wllh a dark lizard band Found 1n ACC. call to idenhfy 284-4391 
LOST Jan. 25 81 Sanlor Bar -navy pea coat. Pleaoe call 2n~466. 
Found: Calculator 1n Hurley Building at the end of last semester Call 1695 lo clatm. 
Found New textbook 1n room 224 Cus­hing. Call Bob Boucher, x83151o identify andclatm 
LOST: A new thermodynamicS text in room 226 of the Math Computer Building. Please g1ve me back my book!!! Call Amy, x7051 
FOUND: a really mce-loolung Cross pen wtth somebody's mscriptton on it Please please oh baby please call Greg at 8284 to ldenhfy. 
Will the g~rl who waltzed off Wllh my sunglasses and my good buddy's lop hal please bnng them back. Thai wasn't very ntce, you know; as a matter of fact it was prelly mean, but I'll g1ve you I he benefit of the doubt s1nce you were probably wasted. If you can't remember who you look those lh1ngs from, call Mike at 8288. ·cause it was me. 
FOUND: A Man's grey Saranac" glove on Jan. 31 in the park1ng lot of Lemans at SMC. To cla1m please call Leslie at 284· 4380. 
lost·WIIson racquetball racquet. light brown. reward call Stan 1694 
LOST One cnmson-colored warm-up racket w1lh lhe word Harvard" on the back. LAST SEEN 1n the ACC on 1/21/84 Reward offered Please call GREG AT 277-5062 
FOUND ON 1/30 -BLUE CAP BE· TWEEN LIBRARY & BP CALL SYLVIA 6714 
STOLEN from South D1n1ng Hall Thursday dunng lunch my INTER­MEDIATE ACCOUNTING book. If you are the scum who abducted il. please call 7809 or return rt to where you found rt orto the counter 1n Lew1s' lobby. P.S. Thanks for having the decency to leave my notebooks, LOSER. 
WHOEVER FOUND THE SHARP CAL­CULATOR IN THE BUSINESS BUILD­ING, PLEASE CALL DAN AT 3670 
LOST: The TORSO of our mannequin. answers to Blanche was stolen from 2nd floor Stanford the mghl of the ·Tacky Party" (1/27) Anyone wrth Info. PLEASE call 284-5418. Great sen11menlal value. Reward. 
FOR RENT 
Studanl rental: 5-6 bedroom house. fireplace, dishwasher, & washer & dryer. Call232·4057 or 272-7767. 
Need one mole roommate. Rent sao per month. One mile north of campuo. Coli Tom m2n-4851. 
AVAILABLE NOW· Efficiency apartment near Notre Dame on busline, 255-8505. 
WANTED 
Looking for 2 dependable females to share living expenses in furnished house. 1 0 minutes lrom campus. $150 per month Includes utilities. Non-smokers please. Call239-5930 or 291·9644 
URGENT Aide needed to Grand Rapids weekend of Feb. 3. Will share $. Please Call Tim al 8798. 
NEED 3 MARQUETIE TICKETS. Please call Jamie al.1318. 
HOUSEMATE WANTED AS 5TH MAN. $80/MO & UTILITIES. CALL 277-4851. 
Need riders to RICHMOND/D.C. area. leave 2/9, return 2/12. share usual. call JEFF 8854. 
FOR SALE 
Wanllo know what's really go~ng on in the Catholic Church? Read NATIONAL CATHOLIC REPORTER. the only newspaper of lhe U.S. Church. For sub­scription informat1on and a free sample copy, call Paul at2n-4651. 
NEED GA'S FOR DEPAUL OR MAR· OUETIE CALL 8057 
I NEED2 DEPAUL GAS. CALL DAVE AT 1801. 
$$Help!! Need 2 DEPAUL Tix! call 284­5119$$ 
Need DEPAUL GA's call John after 7 pm collect (312)998·8384 
I NEED DEPAUL TIX (BIG BUCKS) CALL 277-7570 
NEED FIVE TIX FOR DEPAUL!!! PLEASE CALL SHEILA 3484 
I NEED DE PAUL TIX'S. WILL EX­CHANGE MARQUETTE TIX'S OR CASH. CALLJOEL AT 1570 
I NEED 2 IE PALL GA BASKET BAl. T IX ,ca IIG'egat2n-5062 
NEED MARQUETTE TIXCHRIS 8229 
NEED 6 MARQUETTE TIX 8982 
NEED OePeul balketball tlcketo. AI many •• you've got. Thll lon't CheN Manhelten Bonk, here, 10 don1 alk lor the f•rm, but -will oll8r oomethlng reaiOIIIble. I Cell 8765 lor details. 
I'll pay you TOP $$ NOW for agreement on up to 5 commencement tix. Earn $$ and help preserve my place in family will. Call Dan in eves al287-6273 
NEED 3 DEPAUL TIX -GA OR STUD ­HAVE 1 MUSTUD · TOM3180 
NEED KEENAN REVIEW TICK­ETS,WILL PAY $$$. CALL BRENDAN 3203. 
Need 4 DaPaullix(stu. or GA) Pete 1224 Needed: DePaul GA's call2785 
Wanted: 3 GA's for Marquelle Please! Fam1ly coming from PA Please call Amy 284-4326 
Needed up to 4 Depaul lix. Call Janel at 284-4261 
MY BROTHER GOES TO DEPAUL AND MY PARENTS WANT TO SEE NO KICK THEIR ASS. IF YOU HAVE TWO GA TICKETS PLEASE CALL DAN AT 3670 
PERSONALS 

FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A BELLYGRAM TO YOUR SHEIK! PH 272-1858 
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 
Get ten percent off anything you ordar 
81 BIG BEAR on McKinley Avenue by 
the Town and Country Mall. Just show _your student ID and tell them that "Sam" sent you. II Party Dave goes there, you know It must be awesome. See you thereII 
THREE MINUTES TO MIDNIGHT 

HOW'S YOUR ASPEN? SPRING BREAK SKI TRIP $265 INCLUDES 5 DAYS, 6 NIGHTS, 5 DAY LIFT TICKET $75 DEPOSIT DUE FRIDAY FEB 3 AT THE NO RECORD STORE STUDENT UNION 
LOVE IS ... FLOWERS ON 
VALENTINE'S DAY! 

REGINA'S VALENTINE CARNATION 
SALE 

BUY FOR A LOVER OR THAT SPECIAL 
FRIEND! 

ORDER FEB 5-9 4:30-6PM AT SMC 
DINING HALL 

Cf\ANATIONS .75 EA. DELIVERED FEB 
14 

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES: DEADLINE FRIDAY FEB 3RDII!! 
SOPHOMORE UTERARY FESTIVAL WRmNG CONTEST Open to all Grad & Undergrad students Poetry & Prose ac· cepted with no length requirements Sub· mil one copy wrth name and address to: 309 O'Shag by FEB 10 Winners will be notified by FEB 17 For more info call Patrick McManus 283-1754 
SOPHOMORE UTERARY FESTIVAL WRffiNG CONTEST Open to all grad & undergrad sludanls Poetry & Prose ac· cepled wrth no length requirements Sub­mrt one copy with name and address lo 309 O'Shag by FEB 1 0 Winners will be notfied by FEB 17 For more info call Patrick McManus 283-1754 
Bob O'Brien says... NOTRE DAME BAND... GET DRUNK!! 
Keith Dever is a man-god! 
ROOTS, ROCK, REGGAE 

THIS ISN'T ABOUT DAVE CLAYBAUGH EITHEAIII 
EITHER IS THIS. 

PHOTOGRAPHERS HAVE THE BIG· GEST LENSES!!! 
To the Smick Cluck in fanlasylano. 1may have been wasted and out of control. but I never would have done for you what you wanted me lol 
Lady Irish, 
Good luck defeating the Spartans of Michigan Slate tomorrow n~ghl. Lei's ex· lend this win streak to three! 
-Mary's D1·Hards 
The University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College would like to welcome 
Raymond Ill to their campuses. We hope you had fun on your date. 
Signed, Friends of Jaum 
Rachel, 
Happy 16th birthday and thanks for attending my concert -you really mada my day. Please don't mention 
anything to Chrflltlel Love, Your Billy 
NAZ<: MUSIC COMPETITION·-March 2·­$CASH PAIZES$-·Applicallons due Feb 17--pick one up at the NAZZ or 437 B.P. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY FREDDY 
DIGGER BIGGER BOOGEA 
In search oi...CHEM Mf\N· Who's your BUDDY? Who's your PAL? You're the GREATEST!! I Thanx" Love ya. G&J 
It's always the same. ll's rust a shame.... 
JEFF· Thank you MR.FEBAUAAY. What will I ever do without you? Best of fnends. Forever. Carola 
Hugg1ng and kissing...they·re so much fun ...that's all we want 
JACK "SCORING MACHINE" LUCAS Just 'cause you sit on the bench all the time doesn't mean you can't score! 
·M.A. 
P.S. Nudge. nudge. w1nk, wink. 
JACK "HOCKEY STUD" LUCAS To one who Is the epilomy of the philosophy of Quad Lou, congratulations on your 21 sl birthday. We would like to tell you to be careful out there, but since that causes cancer, rt'll suffice to say that as long as guys like Ricci are around, go lor it! At least until hockey season is over. you can watch us drink. HAPPY 21ST 
BIRTHDAYIIIII FOUNDING MEMBERS OF THE LOUJACK FAN CLUB 
P.S. The program says you're from Saginaw. Michigan. but aren't you really from West Lance, Manitoba? (Yeah, go ahead, say rt, YOU GUYS BLOWIII) 
DENEEN/CURLY HAPPY BIRTHDAY! WHO'S YOUR BUDDY? MINDLESS BOOFS, EMOTIONAL WEAKLINGS. THE STEPS OF STANFORD!" CRUMBS HAVE FEWER CALORIES. WE QJJ;IN,:T KNOW YOU HAD GREY SWt::X'I'§'. ·~PAOLITE. SOBRIETY/ INCREASED SEX DRIVE? PINK BLANKIE. BEWARE OF SHARP EDGES ON BUNK BEDS. WAIT YOU GUYS-I CANT FIND MY 1.0" DUCK SLIPPERS IN APPALACHIA LOVE YAI ANNE, CINDY, DIANE. JOANN 

WHICH DEPARTMENT CAN SOAST SUPREMACY IN GRAPHIC DESIGN? ARCHITECTURE OR ART? Collegiate Jazz Festival T·shlrt & Logo Contest!' Deadline Friday, Feb. 10. Submit entries loSUOfff1ce. 
C.J.F. LOGO CONTEST-ARKIES: EN­TEA IF YOU DAAEI!f 
................................................................ 
' 
ARTISTSII! Don I EVEN lh1nk you're go1ng to w1n thai competition ... $25 IS at stakei AI quarter beer n~ghl . that'd make qu1IB a partyII Signed, your friends 1n Ar· chllecture.. 
GET A DELICIOUS SANDWICH FROM THE YELLOW SUBMARINE CALL 27a. 4453 FOR FREE DELIVERY MOfll· THUA 8-11 FAI 8-3 SAT8-1 ~ 

PAT,CAAIG,JJ,MIKE(Thtr K),MIKE(PAADOS),MATI,MY FAVORITE KEENAN BOZOS:! LOVED ITIGOOD LUCK ON THE 3rd I 4th1LOVE,PAULA 
ATIENTION GIRLS! Saturday is Bado's B·day. This is your chance for a freebee. K1sses accepted from 3·9 Saturday al154 Mornssey Alllale·comers must deal Wilh the wife 
Sheedy s Law Noonan was a Hippomolo Happy Hippomolo DayI AES 
Have a Yabba Dabba Do Time A Dabba Do Time -Rosta Man No mattresses 1n the park1ng lot on Sunday. 
Tnc1a C 4 years of B-Days where I have the hangover? Has it been named a na­tional holiday yet? I can't believe Martin Luther King's B-Day got billing over yours! 
There once was a g1rl from Milwaukee who d wrth me. chug pitchers of Old M11squak1e She's now 22 and she lh1nks that she's cool Doing shot after shot wrth· out BALKING A POEM ATIEMPT AES 
NLG SAYS ON FEB 4 TCN AVOID THE 8-SWEATER Too bad Mark and Magg1e have miss all the fun A DABBA DO TIME 
Happy 21st Birthday Bill. Hope you get all yo/JIB-day kisses Love, The 2 with no in­dtVJdualrty and their roommates. 
Reg1na 4N's own MEGGAN TRANT turns 19 Sal. Call SMCx4219 and make her B· day. Love ya Meg! the gang 
Don't worry, GRANT Surely there's a g1rl out there somewhere who doesn't want you only for your gook looks", "charm" and .25 beers. Try looking in California 
G~rls of Farley, good looking? interesting conversationalist? muscles??? Are we talk1ng about the same Grant? The g1rls of Augusta have had their fill too. 
Hi Bobby! 
Ron, Happy Birthday, Honey! Can you believe rt your twenty years old. I hope your birthday Is as special as you are to mel I Love You Forever Together. Laura 
2 SMC girls need a ride lo Florida! ·5469 
Hey Hey HeyI Rob Bertino is 21 today I 
YIPPEE SKIPPY! Yes! Today's the day! All you lucky Domers come on by SMC and give KKATIE Lady" BROWN !hal b1g birthday k1ss. She's wa1ted 19 years for­
R.S.V.P regrets only x4252. Happy Birthdal Babeel We love you. Your Fellow Penthouse Pin-upsl 
LOOK OUTIII VIBRO-FOOTBALL VIBRO-FOOTBALL VIBRO VIBRO VIBRO VIBRO VIBRO VlBRO HMMMMMMMMM 
Everybody ready? Alright, let'e gollll 
.---------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, February 3, 1984-page 9 
At ACC tomorrow 
Irish host track championships 

ByJERRY MELIA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track team will play host to the Midwestern City Conference Championships at 1 
p.m. tomorrow. The Irish are looking forward to defending the title they won last year in their initial MCCseason. 
Coach joe Piane is very pleased with his team and is confident they will do well in this weekend's meet. A victory in this meet would be of the kind that could not be ex­perienced by most other teams at Notre Dame. This is because track is one of the few sports to be compet­ing in a conference. Almost all other Notre Dame sportscompete as an in­dependent. 
Piane has been preparing for the meet this week after a rather busy three days last weekend which saw Notre Dame athletes compete in thr t ee different cities. 
The only runners not expected to be involved in the championships are sprinter Van Pearcy and middle distance runner Jim Tyler, both be­cause ofinjuries. 
In talking about the competition 

the Irish wi ll encounter this weekend, Piane says, "I expect a fight from Oral Roberts. They are much stronger overall. Some of the other schools have a few good ath­letes in certain areas, but Oral Roberts will present the biggest challenge." 
To win the title they won last year, the Irish must accomplish three things: score points in the sprints, negate the power of Oral Roberts in the middle distance and distance events, and get solid performances in the jumping events. 
Although the middle distance and distance events are one of the Irish strong points, Piane feels that Oral Roberts will be especially tough in these areas because it had a fine cross country season. 
Among those who Piane will be 
counting on to continue to do well 
in this weekend's meet are Alvin Mil­
ler, Greg Bell, Dan Shannon, and 
Mitch Van Eyken in the sprints, and James Patterson in the high jump, long jump, and triple jump. 
Piane also will be relying on strong performances from Tim Can­non, Ralph Caron, and Marc Woz­niak in the distance events. 
The two-mile relay team, which competed in the Millrose Games in New York's Madison Square Garden last weekend, consists of John McNelis, Jim Moyar, Van Eyken, and JelfVan Wie. 
Fine performances should be ex­pected again from Shannon, McNelis, and Moyar in the middle distances; Chuck Lanza in the shot­put; and John Langdon in the pole vault. 
Commenting about the past, Piane felt that last weekend es­tablished some much needed con­fidence. About the future, Piane says, "Once we get everyone healthy and in shape, we're going to be a force to contend with." 
Mullins 
continued from page 12 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball program has also benefited from her hard work and DiStanislao can only be happy with what her scrap­py, intense captain has added to the team. 
"We will miss Theresa Mullins when she graduates because there is no one else who seems to have that same gritty 'all-for-one, one-for-all' attitude," says DiStanislao. "She's not afraid to push her teammates. She is a blue-collar player who's not afraid ofhard work. 
"Theresa Mullins can stay in my 
program as long as she wants." 
One day soon, there may be no walk-ons on DiStanislao's te;tm, but the shouts of encouragement from the far end ofthe bench will definite­ly be missed. 
.,. · r....Corby'sl 
Friday Afternoon 3·8 PM "Unwind Time" 
~~--~· 
AllMixed Drinks ... 2 for 1 Go Irish! Beat 
12oz Drafts ...........60¢
South Carolina 


FEBRUARY SPECIAL "FREE" 'PRO ON THE GO' Hair Dryer ($18.95 value) with any Reg. price PERM $30 and up. D Ideal for travel or home use! D Makes a wonderful gift too! DCall in today to make your Perm appointment and recieve 

PHONE: 234·6767 
this beautiful dryer as our Valentine gift to you. 
(regular discounts do not apply with this special) 




young men 16-35
SYMBOL ... "OF THE MAN WHO RECEIVES IN GIVING" 
FRANCISCANS 
1/u!d(}~ 

DIRECTOR OF VOCATIONS, FRANCISCANS, TOR 2006 EDGEWATER PARt<WAY SILVER SPRING, MARYLAND 20903 
Please send me the free booklet at no obtigatiol'l. 
NO

Na.me age Address 
City -State·-----ZiP·--­(Check preference) Priesthood Brotherhood --­

The Observer Friday, February 3, 1984-page 10 

The Observt-r/Paul Cifarclli 

Tim Lukenda will be in goalfor the Irish tomorrow night when tht')' fm·e Marquette at 7:30p.m. in the ACC. Butfirst, Notre Dame must trm:el to Milwaukee to play the Warriors tonight in the first part ofthe home-and-home series. For more on the two games, see Hd /Jomansky's previeu• on page 12. 
Hockey
continuedfrom page 11 
harder. We'd like to stay unbeaten in the league, so being mentally prepan·d and not being overconfi­dent are necessary this weekend and for the rest of the season." 
Another key to success, besides attitude, is having all players available for duty. And for the first time in two weeks, everyone is ex­pected to be rctady. All suspensions have been served and the wounded have been patched. Gary Becker and Dave Waldbillig still may be nursing shoulder injuries, but will be able to play. 
One ofthose returning to action is Steve Ely. Ely, who hao; missed the 
WANTED: Emergency Medical Technicians Advanced First Aiders Experienced Standard First Aiders 
To assist with Notre Dame's new First Response squad. Contact Dan x3895 for more information 
last four games as a result of a game disqualification penalty against St. • Norbert, is glad to be back, but is also disappointed that a loss occured while he was out. 
"It made being kicked out not worth it," he said. ''I'm sorry that it happened. Now I'm looking forward to us working as a team and going the rest of the way without a loss." 
The Notre Dame goaltending duties will rest with Marc Guay tonight Guay is 2-0-0 and has a 2.33 goals against average. 
Tim Lukenda will be between the pipes on Saturday. He is 9-1-0 on the season with a 2. SS goals against 
The Warriors 1<hould prove to be a challenging test for the Irish. But with the revitalized attitude of the Notre Dame team, it wiil take a highly-talented Marquette squad to silence the Notre Dame attack. 
I 

-----·­
Cosimo Hair Design 
18461 St. Rd. 23 277·1875 
Men: Replarly $14.00, Special Price $10• Women: Regnlarly $20, Special Price $15 • •with c:onpon 
/or Notre Dame student• only C~Deeigners Only: Men $7 Women $10 
-------------------------~...,....-----­
Face Berea College tonight 
Saint Mary's falls to Goshen~ 69-62 
By DAVE WILSON 
!)ports Writer 
According to Saint Mary's head coach Mike Rouse, the rea~on his hasketball team suffered a 69-62 loss at the hands ofGoshen College Wed­nesday night was not only a lack of height, hut also team depth. It was a tough defeat for the Belles, who were coming off a strong victory over Michigan-Dearborn in their own Roundball Classic lao;t weekend. 
"We had very little offensive rebounding," retlected Rouse on the performance. "They played an okay game tonight, but I was happy ahout their ahility to come back after drop­ping hehind." 
The team was without the services of starting guard Mary McQuillan, who is out temporarily with the flu. Rouse then turned to his sixth player, Teresa McGinnis, to fill the gap. Unfortunately, without McQuillan, the Belles were without the speed that usually makes up for their lack ofheight. 
"Without Mary (McQuillan), we 

couldn't run our press game like we 
usually do at the start," said Rouse. 
"Instead, it was just a matter of the 
shots falling when we needed 
them." 
At the beginning, Saint Mary's ap­peared to want to make up for its losses. The Belles jumped out to a 12-6 lead and were able to hold off, the opposition until, with eight • minutes remaining in the half, Gos­hen went ahead by one at 22-21. Af­ter twenty minutes, Goshen had further extended the margin and led by nine at halftime, 36-27. 
"When Betsy (Ebert) ran into foul trouble early, I think we began to lose our momentum," commented Rouse. 
Ebert, the Belles' center and leading rebounder, picked up three foul~. in the early going and Rouse 

Place BOOKSTORE Date MONDAYJ FEB 6 Time 2: 00-4:00 P.M. Deposit Required $ NONE 

was forced to bench her until later in the game. Without her height, Saint Mary's was vulnerable to inside shooting and offensive rehounding by the opponent. 
Goshen maintained its com­fortable lead for most of the second half, and, after ten minutes, ad­vanced that lead to ten at S4-44. However, the Bcllt-s fought back he­hind good shooting from Cyndy Short, who had 19 points in the game, and K.ris Pantelleria, who chipped in 14. 
With three minutes to go, the Belles lost Ehert to five fouls, but a pair of free thows by Elaine Suess brought Saint Mary's to within four at '\9-SS. Suess supported the effort by scoring I I points and dishing out 7 assists. This surge was as close as the home squad would get, 
I Now Open 
~------------------Look Students!!! ------~ji I
I I
TENNESSEE SOUTHERN BAR·B-QUE 1 113 Dixieway N. Old U.S. 31 N. On west side of street. Just p st II the first Red Light in Roseland. II The Lowest Prices in Town . I 
I Hours: Tues. Wed. Thurs. -12:00 noon to 10:00 PM II Fri. Sat. -12:00 noon till12:00 midnight. Closed Sunday and Monday 11 Rib Tips $2.85 and $5.70 1I Half Chicken $3.00 and $4.00 
Sliced Bar-B-Que Beef Sandwich $3.00 I I Shoulder Sandwich $2.50 and $1.25 I I Sorry, No telephone yet I 
"Discover" 
And discover a place where you and your friends will witness the finest entertainment In this entire area, as well asfabulous foods to feast on. Discover: 
1/3 Pound Gourmet Burgers! Pizza Guaranteed To Satisfy! 24 Varieties ofImport Beers! 
Clip This Ad And Save 
$3.00 OFF ANY LARGE PIZZA 
$1.00 OFF ANY SMALL PIZZA 
$1.00 OFF ANY SANDWICH AND FRENCH FRIES PURCHASE 
THANK GOD ITS FRIDAY GOOD FOR ONE BEER FOR .25c 
Second Beer for onJy .soc 
ANY FRIDAY THIS MONTH MUST BE 21 YEARS OLD TO USE THIS COUPON INCLUDES ON TAP BEERS ONLY 
however, and Goshen went on to victory. 
Further scoring support was provided by Ebert, I I points and I 0 rebounds: Lori White, seven point~; and McGinnis with two points. The Belles shot just 38 percent from the floor, while converting 12 of 19 free throws. 
"We have to watch our foul trouhlc in the tournament this weekend," predicted Rouse. "I think we learned how costly fouling can he in our situation." 
Saint Mary's travels to Madi.o;on, Ind. tonight to face Bert:a College of Kentucky in thl· opening round of the Hanover Collegt: Baskethali Tournament. On Saturday, the Belles will play either Hanover or Thomas Moore College, depending on the results of Friday's action. 
One Coupon Per Visit Limit! 
5 Minutes East On Edison To Main St. Then 2 Blocks North To Day Rd . 
..._______259-0050 ______.... 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~--~~~~~~~~~--------------------­
~c:tcJICll~-----------------------------------F-n-·d-~-'-Fe_b_m_my p_a_~_l_l
__3_,_1_98_4___ 
Bloom Connty 
fJNP 50, HOMe. ANP WITH AN 
I.Nfi.JCaSjfllt CllfKJJJS/ON 1V 7He ANTARCTIC ·~5T':'•. 1/£ 1tYXJP o)JST fSI(f lt:RY G<XXJ... 
pttPHf'fl 
I 


Mellish 
LOOIL "'ElLI511! ITS MICHAEl ..TAC.J<SON ON T.r. J ) 
MY BlfOTHff~ AND I LoVE PEPSI-COlA· AT~D 
DRINK IT OFT£N. 
Guindon 

.. HfJACKEP /JY "GG?EtNfiei!CE ~-. HllRPOON£P BY Kf/S511lN ~S fNVOWNmf?Jt..Y I?£XJ£P f!-Y US. tr1AR/Nf-5 ... 

Richarrl Guindon 

Berke Breathed 
'lt':S, IT IS 11MES f.JKE 1H€!£ 'Mfllltrts eesr f(1? IIU-CIJN­C£/Wefl1HAT M: ~o/115( 
(J.Je 1£/?.Y SPW/lJ.. 1HIN&••• 

Dave&Dave 
SO -"OIN lfl TH£ SPIRIT OF TH£ GAMES liND KEEP THE OLYMP" 
BOOM! OH WOW! 
srewu £Ff£CT5.
TOWtH ALIV£, •• 



The Far Side Gary larson 
Campus 
•Noon 
-Law School Brown Bag Lunch, "The Lawyer as Counsellor and Peacemaker," Edward D. Re, 1 0 1 Law School 

•3':30 
p.m.-PhllosophyLecture, "Omissions as Causes," Dr. Joel Feinberg, Location to be an· nounced 

•4 
p.m. -Spanish Club Meeting, LaFortune Stu­dent Center 

•4:15 
p.m. -Notre Dame Law School Moot Court, Final Argument, Memorial Library Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "The White Rose," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. Keenan Review, O'Laughlin Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -Tri-Milltary Ball, Monogram Room, ACC, 54 


Saturday, Feb.4 
•8 
am. -Graduate Record Examination, Engineering Auditorium 

•II 
am. -Track, Men's Midwestern City Con­ference Track Championships, ACC Fieldhouse 

•3 
p.m. -Track, Women's Five-Team Track Meet, ACC Fieldhouse 

•7:30 
p.m. -Ice Hockey, NO Men vs. Marquette, ACC Ice Arena 

•8 
p.m. Keenan Review, O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Sunday, Feb. 5 

•I 
I a.m. -Spanish Mass, Farley Hall Chapel, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns, Everyone welcome 

•I 
p.m. -Opening Art Exhibition, Drawings from the Musee Carnavalet, Snite Museum ofArt 

•7 
p.m. -Black Cultural Arts Festival Concert, Gospel Choir Program, Memori.al library Auditorium 


TV Tonight 
PEPSI IS A PROWD SPoHSQR OF T~E OL YI4PICS ANti WILL 8£ PONAnHG A NICIJEL Foil t.VEIIY tftN OF Pfi'SI YDII 811 Y. 


"I don't think the world owes me a living, but I think I have $1.72 coming from somewhere." 
9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. 


16 The Master 22 Dallas 28 Blue Thunder 34 Inside Business Today 34 Enterprise 16 The New Show 22 Falcon Crest 28 Matt Houston 34 Austin City Limits 
The Daily Crossword 
61 Native

ACROSS 27 Reflux 8 Celt 
Israeli

1 Hornefor 30 Postscripts 9 Bean 
65 Retained

amigo 32 Paddle 10 Ta·ta 5 Shellfish 35 Rudolph, 66 He left 11 TV analyst 10 Alphabet horne(ln 12 Helix
for one start 37 Digestion song) 13 Wagon 14 Monad agent 18 Apprehen­
68 Angered

15 Kind of slon
39 Suggestive 69 Retract

rocket look 22 -·Paul
70 Undressed

16 Fashion 40 Equipment Belmondo
71 Horse
name 42 Aneggfor 
72 Pester17 Hall of monsieur 

73 Lovegod 24 Fruit drink Fame 43 Food tray 26 White House 
catcher 46 Opposite Initials19 Motherof 49 Familiar 27 Uneven

Romulus DOWN
abbr. 

28 Procreatedand Remus 50 Love affair 1 -llbre 29 Popular20 Church part 52 Homily: 2 Indigo game show 
21 Cereal 3 Sediment
abbr. 

grass 4 World host 53 City on the supporter
22 Bread spread Mohawk 5 Demler-31 Heather 

55 College 6 Flute's 33 Entertain 23 Scorch bldg. cousin 34 Allude 25 Ancient Gr. 57 Gallery 7 Aleutian 36 North of 
theater 59 Vintage car island Ariz. 
38 Actress 56 PineTree Caldwell State 41 Freight 57 Vessel cars 58 Flying 
44 -gobragh prefix 

45 Sinbad's 60 Lohengrln's conveyance bride 47 Sgt. or 62 Smear 
corp. 63 Change the 
48 Vice-format 
51 Leatherneck 64 Affirms· tives 54 Hot­66 Save (drlnk) 67 See10D 
Thursday's Solution 

©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. 
213i84 

213/83 All Rights Reserved 

Sports 
Friday, February 3, 1984 -Page 12 
Irish go for seventh straight win against South Carolina tomorrow 
By PHIL WOLF record, so the Gamecocks certainly 
.\ports Writer will he hungry for a win. 
Trying to gain that elusive victory 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -After a string for South Gu-olina will be a high­
of home games, it's time for the scoring front line that should be a 
Notn_· Damt.· basketball players to good match for Notre Dame's big 
pack tht:ir hags again_ men. 
This time the team's baggage will The Gamecocks' leading scorer is 
head to South Carolina, where the 6-8 forward Jimmy Foster, who is 
Irish will square off with the averaging 18.8 points and 9.8 
Gamecocks in Columbia. The game rebounds per game. Joining him up 
will be televised by USA network, front will be 6-8 forward Brad Jer­
with tip-offscheduled for 8 p.m. genson, 10.2 ppg and 6.6 rpg, and 7­
The last timt· the Irish were on the 0 center Mike Brittain, I 0.1 ppg and 
road was the week from January 4 to 6.2 rpg. 
I I, when tht·y won two games while Starting in the backcourt for South 
also losing by two points twice. (2rolina should be 6-2 Michael Fos­
Sinn· that trip, Notre Dame has ter, 7.8 ppg, and 6-3 Jimmy !Jaw­
scored six consecutive victories at thorne, 6.9 ppg. 
the Athlt-tic and Convocation Ct·n­
tt·r. 
A victory ovt·r the Gamecocks 
certainly will giw a boost to the 
Irish. who havt· three games next 
week, induding the ~howdown next 
Saturday with second-ranked 
lkBllll. 
Tomorrow's game will not be easy, however, according to Irish coa(:h Diggt·r Phelps. 
"I think we've got to be cautious," Phelps says. "That's the key to this gamt·. They ( tht· Gamecocks) are nine and nine, but it's a deceptive nine and nine because of what they can be_ 
"When they're all on, they're a 
very good basketball team," the Irish 

Jimmy Foster

coa,:h continues, "hut they've been struggling to put it together for Uawthorne, who scored 20 points some rea.'i<m this year_ That's what in the Gamecocks' 66-56 loss last you've got to bt· careful ahout going year at the ACC, recently recorded into a game like that." his high-point game this season with 
South Carolina has dropped its 16 points la.'it Monday night against 
la.~t four games en route to its .500 Tulane. 
Irish hockey team set to face Marquette 
By ED DOMANSKY 
Sports Writer 
MILWAUKI:E -With the hope for an undefeated sea.<;<m now just a memory, the Notre Dame hockey team is looking to at least maintain its unblemisht·d mark in the Central States Collegiate Hockey League. The Irish will put their perfect I 1-0­0 record on the line as they take on last sea.<;<m's CSCIII. champions, the Marqut·tte Warriors, Friday and Saturday. 
The wn·kend calendar features a homt·-and-home series which gets undt·rway tonight in Milwaukee. The two teams then return to the ACC for a 7:30 p.m. contest tomor­row. 
Marquette comes into the series with an I 1-3-0 mark in CSCHL play and stands 13-5-0 through its entire schedule. 
Tht· Warriors return most of their 
· key playt.·rs from the squad that came away with both the regular season and post-sea.<;<m titles a year ago. 
Dan O'Grady and Rich Carroll lead the team in scoring. They also stand first and _third, respectively, in the CSCHL scoring race. 
The Irish are coming off a sweep against league foe Iowa State la.'it weekend. Hut more importantly, the team has gained some crucial knowledge a.o; a result ofthe season's first loss a week-and-a-half ago at Lake Forest. 
"The loss led them to the realiza­tion that tht.·y are not invincible," said head coach lxfty Smith. "They know now that they must always play to their utmost capabilities." 
Notre Dame co-captain Brent 
Chapman feels that the loss was probably a good thing. 
"It brings yqu hack down to earth and makes yo~ realize that you can be beaten," he says. "Now we know that we have to go back and work 
see HOCKEY, page 10 

The Gamecocks probably will play a match-up zone against the Irish tomorrow. They also will likely try to get into a transition game, which is one of their strengths. 
The Irish, 14-5, will be trying to extend their win streak to eight games tomorrow as they also at­tempt to give Phelps his 250th win at Notre Dame. 
lxading the Irish attack will be captain Tom Sluby, who is now averaging 16.5 points per game from his swingman position. 
Notre Dame's front line will con­sst ofTim Kempton,Jim Dolan, and Ken Barlow, who has shot an in­credible 13 of I 5 from the floor and 12 of 14 from the line in his last two games 
The Irish point guard will be JoJo Buchanan, while Joseph Price and Joe Howard should be the first Notre Dame players offthe hench_ 
The game will be played on a tar­tan floor in front ofa capacity crowd at the Carolina Coliseum and the victory-starved Gamecock fans should make things difficult for the Irish, according to Phelps. 
"You just can't have a letdown be­cause they're losing and think they're not going to be ready to play you. It's a very tough place to play." 

Irish captain 
Theresa Mullins leads from bench 
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
SportsEditor 
It was not long ago that women's basketball was played by teams com­prised entirely ofwalk-ons. 
In basketball of the 1980's, this statement would almost seem a con­tradiction of terms. After all, aren't "walk-ons" those players who sit at the end ofthe bench and see action only in the final minute ofblowouts? With the large number of scholar­ship players in the game today, the term "walk-on" has taken on a negative connotation. 
However, the walk-on of today was the starter ofyesterday. She was a good high school player who decided that it would be fun to con­tinue playing into her college days. 
Volleyball program to be upgraded 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Athletic officials at Notre Dame an­nounced yesterday they were expanding their women's vol­leyball program with an eye on developing a national caliber team. 
"We're trying to tell people we want to go big time in volleyball," said John Heisler, Notre Dame's associate sports information director. 
Toward that goal, the Fighting Irish have hired former Stanford coach Art Lambert to head the revamped program. 
"We've talked to volleyball people all around the country, and we're now prepared to do the kind ofthings that will enable us to compete with the top teams in the country," said Notre Dame Athletic DirectorGene Corrigan. 
"We wanted a second women's sport in addition to bas­ketball in which we could try to attain national recognition. We think we're in an outstanding area for volleybalL Anyone who follows volleyball locally kr!ows the quality of competition in South Bend. We're making a serious commitment. We'll be offering the NCAA maximum in scholarships which is 12," Cor­rigan added. 
Lambert, 48, a graduate of San Jose State, started out as water polo coach and coached the U.S. Olympic water polo team to a fifth place finish in 1968 and a bronze medal in 1972. 
He became water polo coach at Stanford in 1973 and began coaching its men's volleyball team in 1974 and women's vol­leyball team in I 976. 
Lambert left Stanford in 1978 to enter private business. 
"He will be here on Monday," said Heisler. "He's already recruiting." 
Sandy Vanslager, who had coached the team since it became a varsity sport in 1980, will continue as a physical educa­tion instructor. 
She was not heavily recruited, but, 
like a scholarship player, she would 
often choose a college with a good 
basketball program. 
The golden age ofwalk-ons ended at Notre Dame after the 1980-81 season. That was Mary DiStanislao's ftrSt season as the Irish basketball coach. DiStanislao difl have one scholarship player (another was injured early in the season and never really recovered), but the rest of the squad was walk-ons. 
That situation changed the next season when DiStanislao brought in five blue-chip recruits. Now there are 12 scholarship players on the team. 
But one of the 12, senior captain Theresa Mullins, stands out from the others in several ways. The biggest difference is that she was one of the last group of walk-ons who made major contributions on the court Now relegated to the bench while her highly-recruited teammates are on the court, Mullins still makes major contributions in her role as team captain. 
"Theresa is definitely the steady­ing influence are the team because she is such a steady character," says DiStanislao. "She's the captain be­cause she's a leader. So, while it's sometimes tough because she isn't on the court much, the team has to have the knowledge that it's her team. 
"Since the moment she came on the team, which is the moment I came on, she ha.-; been the grittiest person on the team. Nobody worked harder, nobody was more vocaL Whatever she does, she does fully." 
Granted that adjectives like "gritty" and "steady" are usually used to describe your average benchwarmer -something like saying a blind date has a "nice per­sonality" -but Mullins' presence has been invaluable as the Irish con­tinue to upgrade the program. 
She is, in a way, a playercoach. She is a very intense and very vocal per­son during a game, just like DiStanis­lao. At the same time, her strong personality oflSets this intensity. Besides being only one of two 
seniors on the team (Jenny Klauke is 
the other), she is naturally looked up 
to by her younger teammates. 
"The other players know that I un­derstand Coach and she understands me, so I guess they feel they can talk to me," says Mullins. "I just try to keep everyone together_ I make sure people don't let up, but keep on their toes, especially in down periods. I just hope that if I'm working my hardest and don't play, the other players will see it and work harder themselves." 
It would be inaccurate to say that 
Mullins is the la.-;t of a dying breed 
just because she began playing 
before the influx ofscholarships, be­
cause all of DiStanislao's players are 
drilled to be imenSt· and hard­
working players_ But she is as realis­
tic as you would expect from someone who came to a building program just hoping to make the team. 
"When I first came to Notre 
Dame, I just wanted to make the 
team," Mullins explains. "I figured 
that if I made the team and worked 
hard, I could get two, maybe three, 
good years in. I wasn't totally naive. I 
knew that there would be scholar­
ship players coming in." 
Her estimates proved to be very accurate. After seeingaction in all 28 games in her freshman year and averaging about four points per game, she started in all 25 games the next season. Her scoring output in­creased slightly, but the scholar­ships caught up with her and she has seen little action over the la.~t two years. 
"I like to look at it that I'll work my hardest in practice and hope that, if I get in, I'll do the job," says the Wil­mington, Del., native. "I haven't given up, though. I just realize that I have a role and that I'm not a.o; talented as the other players. But those are the breaks. I just know that I'd be the same person ifIhad played or not 
"I wa.o; always taught that, if you work hard, you'll get a I00 percent payoff. I've benefited. I've made some great friends, so I'm happy." 
see MULLINS, page 9 


