------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Orwell -page 7 


ND Food Services earns Ivy Award 
By BOB VONDERHEIDE 
News Editor 
It may be fish-on-a-bun day in the dining halls today, but it has been filet mignon day all week in the office of Food Service Director Wil­liam Hickey. 
The coveted Ivy Award, the na­tion's top honor for institutional food, has been given this year to the Notre Dame Food Service for in­novation and quality in dining pleasure. 
"It's the Academy Award for food services," said Liz Adams, award program director for Restaurants and Institutions, the leading magazine in the industry and spon­sor of the award. 
But not just any Academy Award. 
Notre Dame Food Service has taken 
home the award for best picture. 
"I am really proud of it and so is 
my staff," Hickey said yesterday. "T:.e profession has recognized that good things are happening at Notre Dame." 
The magazine receives nomina­tions for the annual award during the summer. and readers select the recipients by mailing in a ballot published in a fall edition. To be placed on the ballot, a food service must be receive at least four nomina­tions from previous winners. Notre Dame's competition was Bowling Green University, Chemical Bank of New York, Continental Illinois Bank of Chicago. and Motorola Food Services ofSchaumburg, Ill. 
Restaurantsand Institutions also 
gives an Ivy Award to the best hotel 
food service and restaurant. 
Hickey said receiving the Ivy Award confrrms that Notre Dame Food Service is fast becoming one of the best in American colleges. Uni­versity oflllinois and Purdue Univer­sity have also won an Ivy in the award's 14-year history. 
But Purdue doesn't even serve carbonated beverages, Hickey said with a laugh yesterday. Coke is a once-a-year treat for the Boiler­makers. 
"We think our institution is just as good as the Ivy League's." said Hick­ey, who ranks Yale and Cornell food services as industry models. "We go through a lot of extra effort. That's the difference; that's why we got the Ivy (over other schools)." 
Cap'n Crunch Week didn't hurt. Although sponsored by the sopho­more class, Hickey and his staff set up many of details for the fall fest, including the logistics for the eating contest. 
Theme Nights at the dining halls and the Taste Of Notre Dame -an outdoor showing off of new food from national distributors -are other examples of Hickey's "extra effort." 
"You can't just put up a Mexican 
poster and serve tacos and call that 
Mexican Night," Hickey said. "We 
go through a lot of hard work to 
create the right ambience." 
In his 18 months as food service 
director, Hickey -who is a leading 
contender for the Silver Spoon 
award given by the International 
Food Manufacturers Association ­
has opened up the dining halls for 
dances. 
He has revamped menu schedules 
and researched new ways ofprepar­
ing food. One example is if you avoid 
quickly heating up a frozen breast of 
chicken, it will be much more ten­
der. 
see AWARD, page 3 


Photo by Neil Kin~ 
Man. Winners were decided by a penny vote, and received 1100 and a pizza party for their efforts. The contest raised $600 for the United Way Fund. From left to right: Bill Doyle, Greg Crawford, Mark Huffman, Tim Ryan, Dave Lennert, jack Patterson,jobn Drew, Tom Ryan, ar.djobn Nash. 
Snow damages car during break 
ByERIK HICKEY 
News Staff 
When sophomore Trent Rock went home for Christmas break, he left his '82 Camaro sitting peacefully in the D-2 parking lot. When he returned, the only sign ofhis car was a few inches of antenna protruding from a snow drift. 
Rock, like a number of Notre 
Dame students, chose to leave his 
A 'dream comes true' for faculty as Decio Hall nears completion 
By FRANK LIPO 
News Staff 
The Decio Faculty Hall, for more than 20 years a dream for the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, is now nearing completion. Its construc­tion is right on schedule and it will be a "very, very effective offifjk building," said Physical Plant Di~'; tor Don Dedrick. 
The $6.2 million facility is the gift of Arthur ]. Decio, president of Skyline Corporation and a Univer­sity trustee. It was designed by Ellerbe and Ellerbe, and Carl ]. Reinke and Sons is the general con­tractor. Located behind O'Shaughnessy Hall on the Sout­heast Quad, it consists of three four-story sections, encompassing 75,000 square feet. 
According to Dedrick, the north section of the building will be com­pleted first and is scheduled to be furnished Feb. 7 or 8. The south sec­tion will be ready for furnishing March 1, while the central section is to be furnished April 1. While the cold wave affected the rest of us, Dedrick said it had "little effect" on the construction because "95-98 percent of the building was weat­herproof' before the cold struck. The permanent heating units are 
operating in the north and south sec­tions while there is a temporary unit operating in the central section. 
Roger Skurski, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters, was also enthusiastic about the building. All of the college's faculty, except the Art, Music, and Psychology Departments, which have their own buildings, will occcupy the 250 
offices. Skurski hopes the social space will allow the faculty of the different departments to mix. 
There are also several seminar rooms, a conference room, a com­puter terminal room and lounges, and the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies will be housed in the building. "The space that is there is effectively used," said Skurski. 
All ofthe department chairmen of 
the College of Arts and Letters were 
invited to an official inspection tour 
last Tuesday. Skurski reports a very 
favorable faculty response to the 
tour. 
When the Memorial library was built in 1963, the basement office space was viewed as temporary. Now that permanent offices are a reality, the faculty may fmd many of their special features worth waiting for. 
Both Dedrick and Skurski spoke 
proudly of the many features of the individual offices. Each has a large picture window and a smaller win­dow that can be opened, as well as a controllable heating unit, a large built-in bookcase, carpeting, a corkboard strip and a built-in worktable by the window. A new desk,a filing cabinet and two chairs 
will also be provided. 
For allocation of offices, Skurski 
asked each department chairman 
whether he would prefer the offices 
of his department in one block or 
scattered throughout the building. 
He also asked ifthey preferred a par­
ticular section or floor. After making 
a general chart for office allocation, 
he left the individual office assign­
ments to the department chairper­sons. 
After the central section is completed, Skurski hopes to occupy the building as soon as possible. He said he "won't be able to move everyone simultaneously, but we'd like to move everyone in before graduation." 
What about the vacated basement 
of the library? Dean Skurski said the 
administration is still evaluating this 
space to determine its future use. He/ 
said the library will need some ofthe 
see DEClO, page 8 

car in a University lot over break but was one of the unfortunate few to have his car damaged. 
He contends that the weight of the snow piled on his car by a Uni­versity snowplow caused con­siderable damage, although the car was not actually hit by a plow. The damage amounted to about S 1300, said Rock, and included a dented hood and roof, broken louvers, windshield, and taillights; two blown right tires, and suspension and alignment problems. 
University g.rounds crew official William Thistlethwaite disputes Rock's claim, saying only 10-1 5 per­cent of the snow resulted from plowing. Thistlethwaite said the cor­ner of D-2 where Rock's car was parked normally collects a lot of drifting snow. 
Rock said the g.rounds crew was unable to answer his questions as to the unusual drift pattern of snow in D-2. He claims that at least 70 per­cent of the snow on his car was due to snowplowing. When asked of the possibility of a lawsuit, Rock 
replied, "I probably won't sue. 
Hopefully it won't go that far. 
They've been really good about it." 
Rock has discussed his case with both Campus Security and Univer­sity insurance representatives. He claims Security furnished shovels, but not shovelers, and that he and his friends spent three days digging the car out. 
see SNOW, page 6 
ND/SMC pro-lifers join DC protest march 
By BUD LUEPKE 
News Staff 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Pro-Lifers joined an estimated crowd of 70,000 in the nation's capitol Monday to protest the Supreme Court's 1973 decision to legalize abortions. 
The Pro-Life Club ofSaint Mary's and Notre Dame, headed by John May and Dan Harrington, took a busload ofover 50 people to Washington D.C. to participate in the demonstration. Support was not a problem as limited bus space prevented many more students from going. Terry Donovan, a club member who made the trip, said "people were calling from Chicago to go, and John (May) got a lot of requests from other students around campus. There's much more support than people realize." Donovan said studentsfrom Valparaiso University also went on the Notre Da-me trip. 
Support was again evident in Washington D.C. The protesters flooded Constitution Avenue during the march from the Wash­ington Monument to the steps of the Supreme Court. "I've never seen so many people," said Cecilia Smith, another club member. Donovan said that the crowd, which has always been large, was slightly larger this year, and noted that support for the pro-life movement is as strong now as it was 11 years-ago. In Donovan's words, "It was phenomenal." 
see MARCH, page 8 
~ 
,;.. .......... 

The Observer Friday, January 27, 1984--page 2 
In Brief 
Almost 200 Circle K-ers from more than ten statn will he on campus this weekend to participate in the annual M idWl'St Lt·adership Training Conference at the Center for Continu­ing Edm.:ation. Sessions will he conducted all day Saturday and will he lnl hy Tim Clipson from the Texas-Oklahoma District ofCircle K. Spl·akers will include Dr. Kathleen Turner from Notre Dame's Ikpartnll·nt of Communications and Susan Prieto from Counseling and Psv<:hologil'al Services. Other events during the weekend in­clude; party tonight ami an excursion to Bendix Woods tomorrow. IntiJrm<Uion on the weekend may he obtained from Wes Gainey, prl·sidcnt of Notrl' Daml·'s Cirde K. -lbe Obsen>er 
To restore quiet to the library University of Wisconsin-Madison officials dl·signatl·d five study halls as quiet areas with onlv ont· ldt for talking. Smoking areas were reduced, and access 11; the building will be more carefully monitored. In recent years, student socializing and an influx of "street people" have destroyed the proper research atmosphere. -The Obsen•er 
The Annual Keenan Revue will take place f'd)fuarv I, 5. and 4 in the ()'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's. Two tick<·ts r<·r person will ht· distributed this Sunday at 4 p.m. at the Srudent I'nion Hecord Store and tht· hox office at ()'Laughlin Auditorium. The dorm voted HO percent to 20 percent for three shows thb year, according to director Randy Fahs. Nearly 250 ofthe dorm's .~00 members ar<· involved in the show in some respect. Sinn· tick<·ts arc free, other means art.· used to try to break even on production costs. If Fah~ succeeds in covering all costs, it will be the t1rM time in the eight year history oftht: R<·vut:. Fahs said that Studt:nt A<:tivitks donatt:s S l 000, and th<· Kt·cnan Rcvut: Raffle raises ap­proximately Sl)OO. Tht: rt:st oftht: S5'HJO needed t:omt:s from dona­l ions, T-~hin saks, and advertising in the program. -The Obsen,er 
An American woman traveling with her family along th<· Pan-American Highway in eastern El Salvador was shot to lkath y<·stcrday, said a Roman Catholic pril'st who administered the laM rites. Tht· priest, who asked not to he named, said people hdit·vcd to be kftist guerrillas fired on the vehick carryig the woman. her husband and several children hetween El Divisadero and Santa Rosa de Lima. about 127 miles east of San Salvador. The priest said the other members of the family did not appear to bt: injurnl. lit: said the woman was an American. but ht:r name was not available immt:diatdy. -AP 
justin Dart, a multimillionaire industrialist and a on~.:-time mcmhl'f of President Reagan's "kitchen cabinet," died yesterday of heart failure at age 76. Dart joined United Rexall Drugs in Boston at agt· -\4 and the following year became its president. He moved the company to Los Angeles and turned it into Dart Industries. In 1980, he ml·rged Dart Industries with Kraft Inc., producer of foodstuffs. Chkago-hased Dart & Kraft Inc. is the nation's 27th largest industrial t1rm. -AP 
Harold B. Minor, 81, the u.s. Ambassador to Lebanon in the early 1950s, died Wednesday of an apparent heart attack. Minor served as ambassador in Beirut from 1952 to 1953. While in the Foreign Service, he was posted in Mexico, Colombia, Brazil, Is­rael. 1..tn, Afghanistan, Greece, and Lebanon. After concluding 26 years in the Foreign Service, he entered the government relations 
department ofthe Arabian American Oil Co. in New York and Saudia Arabia. -AP 
Of Interest 
The Chicago Ensemble will oe in concert with Notn.: Dam<· violinist Laura Klugherz and cellist Kart:n Buranskas Sunday at 4 p.m. The concert, sponsored hy the Department of Musk and the University Artists Series, will be held in Annenherg Auditorium. -The Obsen,er 
Louise Fallon will be performinr, tomor­row in a senior viola rl'Cital. Th<· rt:cital will he held in a.e Annen­hcrg Auditorium of tht: Snite Museum at 4 p.m. -The('' server 
Weather 

Mostly cloudy today, then turning col~ with low 
down to 21. I.att:r chance offlurries, tht·n clear and cold wnh hagh of 
21-!. -AP 

Political passions past? 
President Reagan is expected to announce his plans for re-election Sunday night. While this is no surprise to anyone, it officially signals the beginning of tht: 1984 presidential race. 
But there will he something missing in this election, something that was also noticeably absent in the 1980 election. It seems as though .there is a definite lack of interest in the issues relevant to the campaigns on the part of voters. Nowhere is this lack of concern mort: evident than in the once exciting and striving political groups on the campuses oftht: nation's universities. 
And Notre Dame could be the definitive campus in this saddening turn ofevents. 
This year's candidates will have to succumb to playing off of each other's faults rather than taking strong sides on controversial issues. This will most like· ly confuse rather than assist the voter in his or her choice since the issues will never honestly he con­fronted until after the first Tuesday in November. 
Dan McCullough 
Assistant News Editor 

Inside Friday 

to The Obsen,er titled "Why I'm for George 1\-kGovern." In it, Costello wrote: 
"Ifwe weren't all academic intellectuals who /itJe ir~ the world ofsymbol, perhaps we wouldn't be tempted to connect Nixon u•ilh the fact that America has ac­quired a plastic soul . ... Listen to the President's words sometime. He speaks ofpeace 'with honor.· He means saz,tng face instead ofsaving lives. He means keeping em rye on history instead ofon human suffer­ing." 
But it wasn't always thiS way. Some may remt:mher hack to 1976 when the no­name challenger, Jimmy Carter. took on the staid somewhat boring incum­bent administration of Gerald Ford. But in this elec­tion the drama of an all-out prt:sidential race was again not completely at its peak. 
To get the full forn· of how powerful this tradition of American governmt:nt can be, and what kind of ef. feet it can have on the average voter we have to go back twelve yt:ars. 
In tht: 1972 ract: to tht: White House, the two can­didates, President Richard 
------It is obvious that this type of emotion which played a vital role in the 1972 presidential ekction is as extinct as the dinasours. 
Today, Costello describes himself as "more cautious" in expressing his political position. "The issues don't have the same type of pas­
,__.._._.says. "I don't think I'd phraSl· (plastic souls) that way
t7~~~~=~~~--~=~ causing responses," he 
Nixon and Sen. George McGovern, D-S.D., embroiled 
the nation in two of the most exciting and written­
about campaigns in American history. Interest in the issues was rdevant then. They were so relevant, in fact, that both campaigns involved people who were emotionally-driven and often militant in their attempts to get their man in the White House. 
In 1972, American troops were still lighting Com­munists in the jungles ofVietnam, members ofthe Com­mittee to Re-Elect the President (CREEP) were being tied to the burglarly and attempted bugging of Democratic national headquarters in the Watergate hotel, and the nation was still recoiling from the tur­bulence ofthe 1960's. 
Emotions ran deep in '72. Sen. Edward Kennedy, D· Mass., visited the campus to rally support for the Democrats, as did Sargeant Shriver. And an English professor named Donald P. Costello (now chairman of the American Studies department) submitted an article anymore." 
Rather, in 191-!4 Costello sees the student as not par­ticularly politically active bt:cause the issues don't directly affect tht:m the way tht:y did in '72. "Troops sit­ting in Lebanon is not any­
thing like the emotional issue of kill or being killed. An awful lot of the passion in that article was caused hy my friends who were over thert: (Vietnam) killing. And if they didn't, they'd go to jail. Be killed, kill, or go to jail." 
As Costello said, "I look furward to the time when I can write a letter of reft:rt:nce for a student and tell the company that the student was an activist, and it will he taken a~ a compliment." 
Perhaps someday soon the pendulum will swing back toward the left a little and campus activism will gain renewed popularity. Hopefully, students will not feel so confined by the scrutiny oftheir peers and by tht: fear of projecting a nt:gative image towards potential employers. "' 
Until then, however, we'll just have to look toward the past for example ratht:r than to the present for ac­tion. 
,__The_Obs.erYer_ Bruno's II 
This Old House Pizzeria & Pub 
T<xlay's issue was produced by: 
in Roseland 

Composition Editor........... Thomas Small Layout Staff................... Paul, Sue and Bob Typesetters ............................. Tracy and Vic Neu•s Editor............................. Mary Healey CopyEditor............................... Amy and Ed 
On Campus Delivery
Sports Copy Editor.....................Jc!f Blumb Viewpoint Layout ........ Mike McCaughey 
Monday thru Saturday
Features Copy Editor............. Peter Ciotta 
Features Layout ................ Sarah Hamilton 
ND DaJ• Editor.................... ) elf Harrington 
1 liter Pepsi free with Small 
SMC Da}' Editor..........................Tom Small Ad Destgn ....................................... Bob Slota 
21iters Pepsi f~e with medium 
Photographer.......................... Paul Cifarelli 
31iters Pepsi free with large 
r---~-------------------­
. 277-4519 BRUNO'S 277-4519 
I 

I I I I I I I I 
The Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is 
I
published Monday through Friday and 
I
on home fomhall Saturdays, except 
I
during exam and val'ation periods. The 
Observer is published hy the students of 
I 
the llnivcrslty of Noare Dame and Saint 
I
2'77•4519 CllFFEREXPCR>SJt.:NEI<.IQII11 277•4519
Mary's College:. Subscriptions my be 
L ___J 
purchased ti>r S2~ pt·r year ( J 15 per semester) hy writing The Observer, 
Mon · Thur Fri ·Sat 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 465%. 
4 pm ·10 pm 4 pm ·11 pm
The Observer is a mc:mherofThe As­
sociated Press. All rt:produnion rights 
277-4519 
ace reserved. 

----~~~~~~~~~-------------------­
The Observer Friday, January 27, 1984-page 3 
Mexico program offers cultural experience 
ByPATSAIN 
SeniorStaffReporter 
Are you tired of battling snow on your way to the library to study? Does South Bend's dazzling social and cultural life leave you yawning? 
Notre Dame's Mexico Program 
may  be  the  answer  to  your  
problems.  The  program,  offered  
with  the  International  Center  at  

Iberoamericana, has two options, a sophomore year·long program and a junior one·semester program. 
There will be an information meeting for those considering the one·semester option on Mond;ty, January 30, at 6:30p.m., in the coffee house at the Center for Social Con­cerns. 
The program is offered during both the fall and spring semesters, and takes place on the campus ofthe Universidad Iberoamericana, a private university just outside Mexico City. 
Courses are chosen to take ad­vantage of local offerings and staff and to fulfill as many as possible of the requirements ofthe Notre Dame curriculum. 
The normal course load is 15 credits, earned in special courses recommended for Notre Dame stu­dents and in electives available from additional offerings of the Interna­tional Center, and appropriate courses from the curriculum ofUni­versidad Iberoamericana. 
A unique aspect ofthe curriculum at Iberoamericana is the Social Analysis Seminar on the economic, social, and political problems of Mexico. The course is a requirement for the one-semester program and emphasizes personal contact with people living and working in poor areas. 
Students live with families chosen by the International Center, since residential universities are ~re in Mexico. Because they live in the city, students will have frequent contact with local people. 
Mexico City offers rich cultural opportunities. Mexican folklore, dance and music is world-reknown, and the countryside shows the' evidence of former great cultures. Mexico City also has the museums, opera, theater, and libraries of any other nation's capital. 
The cost of the program, includ­
ing transportation to and from 
Mexico City is the same as that paid 
by the average student living on the 
Notre Dame campus. Most financial 
aid scholarships continue as at Notre 
Dame, although students must pay 
for books, snacks, and incidentals. 
Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are eligible for the program, although intermediate­level Spanish is required. All can­didates must have a strong overall average and at least a B in Spanish. 
Interested students should con­tact Dr. Isabel Charles in the Foreign Study Office, or Marcia LeMay, coor­dinator of Latin America Programs. 

Saverline Corporation's Vice President of Marketing, Charles Hutson, contratulates Rob .Guilday and Rich Vanthournout, Notre Dame students who lucked out in the Saverline Win a Trip to Florida contest. Hutson and Saverline Chairman Lany Butler were on campus Monday to announce the winners. 
French fighter jet downed in Chad 



•Nike  
Quality  •Adidas  
merchandise  •Converse  
•Tiger  
•Footjoy  

Across from the King's Cellar (S. Bend 
Ave.) 

1635 EDISON 
Notre Dame · StMary's Happy Hour 4-7 PM!!! 
Welcome Jr. Mom's Weekend!!! 

Associated Press 
PARIS -The downing ofa French jet in Chad and an attack on a government post have reopened the civil war that has been stalemated since the French intervention last summer. 
France blamed Libya for the loss of the plane· and pilot in Wednes­day's attack. But Libya, which sup­ports the rebels of former Chad President Goukouni Oueddei, said the attack was carried out by Goukouni's forces and warned against any intervention by "foreign parties." 
An armored column from north­ern rebel-held territory crossed into government-held territory Wednes­day, shot down a French Jaguar fighter-jet and its pilot, and hit a Mirage Fl fighter, the French government says. The pilot was the first French fatality since French forces entered on the government side Aug. 9. 
In N'Djamena, Chad's Information Minister Mahamat Soumalia said the attack on the government garrison at Zigueye was carried out by a "large Libyan column." 
The French intervention force, sent to halt a rebel drive, stopped the rebels and an estimated 3,500 Libyans, but never attempted to drive the intruders back into Libya. 
continuedfrom page I 
Hickey's latest project is catering Junior Parents' Weekend where the food service will set up Food OfThe Nations, an array of pastry, choc­olates, tacos, steak and tempura. An­other project is to renovate North Dining Hall, a building Hickey thinks looks more like a high school cafeteria. Plans call for round tables, paint and wood finishings. 
LEVERAGED BUYOUTS: Opportunities for young people 
Lecture by Charles L Barancik, CPA Monday, Jan. 30 4 p.m. Hayes-Healy Audit. Sponsored by the M. B.A School 

Winter in Michigan just flies b~ 
Pile your friends and your family in the car. load the 
snowmobiles on the trailer, and head for a place with 
miles of beautiful. groomed trails and more good clean 
snow and good clean fun than you'll know what to do 
?~~:~"~;;::~ 
M!CH!GAN 
Since that time, an unwritten truce has been in effect, with French forces deployed along the 15th parallel across the middle of Chad. The rebels and their Libyan backers remained north of the line, and the government troops ofPresident His­sene Habre -supported by France and the United States, remained south. 
• • . Award 
Restaurants andInstitutions will be on campus in three weeks to do a feature on Hickey and his staff. The trade magazine with a circulation of 127,000 will hold an awards ban­quet on May 20. 
Oops! 
Self-help sessions on how to cope with the tensions and aggravations ofcollege life, slated to beginJan. 31, will be sponsored by the Counseling and Psychological Services Center -not the Student Health Center as reported in yesterday's Observer. 
The groups will be led by profes­sional staff members of the center and doctoral students in the counseling and psychology program, according to Luis Valdes, counselor and coordinator of Out­reach. 
Three programs will be offered. The first, focusing on building self· esteem, will begin)an. 31. On Feb. 5, a stress management session will start, and on March 26 an assertive­ness training course will begin. The first two dates were reported incor­rectly yesterday. 
Sign ups for Outreach will take place during registration for Free University, Jan. 30 from 7 to 10 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Those in­terested may also sign up by contact­
ing  the  Counseling  and  
Psychological  Services  Center  
directly.  

1984-85 MEXICO FOREIGN STUDY PROGRAMS One and Two Semester 
INFORMATION NIGHT 
Center for Social Concerns Mon., Jan., 30,6:30 p.m. 
The Observer Friday, January 27, 1984-page 4 
Paper pulls 'Far Side,' citing violent humor 
Associated Press 

FORT WAYNE, Ind. -The car­
toon feature, "The Far Side," wa~ 
pulled from the Fort Wayne News­
Sentinel afier the newspaper's 
managing editor complained it 
showt·d "the humor ofviolence." 
But afier readers complained, the 
editor startt·d a contest asking "Far 
Side" fans to participate in a effort to 
sec if the strip should be reinstated. 
'Ibe strip wa-; pulled from its slot on the front page on Dec. S. Manag­ing Editorjoe Weiler said he felt the cartoon "too frequently played to the humor of violence." 
In a December edition, Weiler asked readers whether the comic should return to the News-Sentinel. 
"Let us know in a Far Side-esque 
manner whether you want the car­
toon hack," Weiler wrote. 
The reader who suhmitcd the hest and the most Far Side-like plea by noon Dec. 22 received an original drawing hy Gary Larson, the :33-year old St·attlc artist who draws the comic. 
"Too frequt·ntly I just didn't un­derstand il," Executive Editor Steward Spcnn·r explained. "It hafficd me." 
"That's just ht·cause ht·'s quite normal," said Larson. in a tdephone interview from his Seattle home. 
"I don't undt·rstand all these things mysdf," said tht· cartoonist, who will he speaking Tuesday night at Notre Dame. "That's a ht·althy out­look." 
L.trson adtkd. "The cartoon is directl·d at an adult readership, and I 
Justice amuses audience 
Associated Press 
HANOVER. N.ll.-The venerable 
li.S. Supreme Court is made up of "nim· prima donnas" who have nicknames such as "the pornog­rapher's frknd" and pass World Serks scort·s down the bench. says someonl' who should know ­justice llarry Blackmun. 
During a thrn·-day fellowship at D<~rtmouth Colkge which ended yestnday, Blackmun treatnl faculty. stlllknts ami the public 10 a rare and humor-tlllnl glimpse of the inner working~ of thl· nation's highest court. 
"(>ne of us we call round the con­fnt·nn· table 'the w<Jrden's friend' hl'l'aust· ht· alway~ votes in favor of thl· wardt·n and against the poor prisom-r who wants 10 get out," ht· told an audknl'l' Wednesday night. 
think most people can sense there's no malice underneath it. It's a healthy hent, just like slapstick com­edy when someone gets a pie thrown in his face. SalUrday morning cartoon shows are far more violent than TbeFarSide." 
Since the cartoon's disap­pearance, the newspaper reported receiving calls and letters asking that it be restored. 
"That's the only reason I sub­scribed to the paper," one caller complained. 
The last view readers in Fort Wayne got of the cartoon was of a grinning clown sandwiched be­tween two frowning guards. 
The caption: "I don't think I'll be able to tell the kids about this one," says one of the guards as they lead the clown to an electric chair. 
Larson, whose :3-year old cartoon appears in more than I I 0 daily newspapers, said he didn't even know it was running on the front 

page in Fort Wayne.  An  unidentified  agent  takes  inventory•  of  
"I  certainly  would  have  heen  packages ofcocaine that wereseized when Miami  
proud of that," he added.  M~tro-Dade  police  raided  a  cocaine  factory•  


The agents reported confiscating about $40 mil­lion of neu•()' processed drugs. There were four 
persons arrested in the raid. 
Women's Support Group for undergraduate women sponsored by the Women's Caucus 


~ e.stLe SC\JLtJT\J~E~ 
272..0312 
1101115: 
Tu.._, W .... S.L I »> :SO Thura. 1:30-llO, Fri. l·iG-1.10 Cloud Ilion cono.JIT 

Nail~
·­
Tips

We spec.ollze In Sculptured Nollal Pomper yourself. Let one of our Designers give you thf.long oolls you hove been dr8<ltnlng 
of. We'll olso help your own oolls grow 
stronger. Bring this od ond receive o free-bottle of Queen's CClStle Noll Polish with your set of nolls. ~ eu,11e 
54533 Terrace Lane 
AcroNfronlllerttn'• 
, .......23 

·~000 
clft.PLETE 
~~~~' ~ EXPIRES 2-29-84 
What: Organizational Meeting  
:::~~: ::~:::~~::~::::t:da::~::~~:~al  ••.•  
0  
••••  Who: Any u~~~~~~ff:j!2!~:: : :~ ~:  •  ~~  

·::·:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::·:::·:·:·::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::·:·:·:·:·::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:::::::::::;: 
t 
~...........................................................................................................,.~ 
I ~11~~tll~~~g~~;~~~11 .. 
JuniOR paREnts' W€€k€nb PR€SJb€nt's l>tnn€R 
will beheldITuesday, January 31 Wednesday, February 1 · 7 -9 p.m. in the Nazz. 
NOTE: * Maximum of 61.D.'s per person 
~....,.................................=.:.~~~.~.~.~~!.~.~..~?..!::~~~~~...........................~ 

Professional Business Managers 
U.S. Navy Supply Corps. has openings in training programs offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified appli· cants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to im· mediate managerial positions in one of the following areas: 
*SYSTEMS INVENTORY MANAGEMENT *ACQUISITION CONTRACTING *COMPUTER SYSTEMS *FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 
STARTING SALARY $17,000 with benifits, rapid advancement: QUALIFICATIONS: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred. U.S. citizenship a must. Age Limit: 30. CALL us at 1·800·382·9782 or (local) (219) 25&.1455 *Navy Representative "on ·campus" 1 & 2 Feb. at the Student Union. 
The Observer Friday, January 27, 1984-page 5 
Soviet Union expands Cuban navy; delivers new submarine and frigate 
Associated Press The additional Foxtrot submarine has called attention to flights by 
is the third vessel of that class Soviet Bear reconnaissance born-
WASHINGTON -The Soviet Uni­provided by the Soviet Union to bers from Cuba out over waters on has increased the size of Cuba's Cuba. The two earlier attack subs where U.S. Navy vessels operate. navy and MiG-23 fighter force for arrived in Cuba in 1979 and 1980. Last March, it was reported that the 
the first time in several years, U.S. in­The Cuban navy totals about 125 Soviet Union had deployed to Cuba telligence sources said yesterday. ships, mostly missile-armed attack two bombers equiped for anti­
A 2,300-ton Soviet-built frigate boats, torpedo boats and patrol submarine warfare. Deployments of and a 2, l00-ton diesel-powered sub­ships. such planes from the Soviet Union marine were delivered in recent Although the Cuban navy is tiny occur periodically. days in Havana, said the sources who when compared with that of the In another intelligence report spoke only on condition they United States, it is the largest of any bearing on the Caribbean and remain anonymous. owned by nations in the Caribbean Central America, sources said Soviet 
In addition, the sources said area. A number of small Caribbean tankers recently delivered about 
crates believed to contain fuselages island states have expressed con­10,000 barrels of aviation fuel and of three new MiG-23 Flogger jet cern about expanding Cuban naval 15,000 barrels of kerosene to the fighters were seen early this month and air power. Nicaraguan port of Corinto. at an airfield southwest of Havana. The Cuban navy, trained by Soviet There were reports also that 
These planes are the first of their naval advisers, has joined from time Soviet tankers were expected to un­type sent by the Soviets to Cuba to time in exercises with visiting load about 240,000 barrels of rude since 1982 and will bring to about Soviet warships in the Gulf of oil at Puerto Sandino, Nicaragua. 35 the number of these modern Mexico. These shipments were taken by fighters in the Cuban air force, the The United States is sensitive to U.S. intelligence specialists as fresh sources said. any hostile naval presence in the evidence of Soviet support for the 
The Koni-class frigate is the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico be­Sandinista government of Nicargua, second such warship provided by cause, senior naval officers have whih has been plagued by rebels the Soviet Union for Cuba's growing said, significant U.S. ship lanes run who have attacked and destroyed navy. The first Koni frigate joined through those waters. coastal oil facilities among their tar-the Cuba fleet in August, 1981. Among other things the U.S. Navy 


The Observer Friday, January 27, 1984-page 6 
Cranston tries for third place in iowa primary 

Associated Press 
CARROLL, Iowa -Television lights tlooded the stage of the Holy Spirit School gymnasium and repor­tt-rs crowded the bleachers as for­mer Vice President Walter F. Mondale spoke at the annual dinner ofCarroll County Democrats. 
When Mondak finished, Sen. Alan Cranston rose to spt·ak. 
With a loud clatter, the television crews packed their equipment and the reporters stampeded for a waiting press bus to accompany Mondale to his next stop. 
That kfi tht· Carroll County Democrats and t•xactly two repor­ters -no tloodlights, no crowded pn·ss section. 
The<:alifornia senator insists such incidents don't diso>Urage him, but they do throw into sharp relief the state of hls campaign for the lkmocratic presidential nomina­tion. 
Front-runner Mondale, with his silver-strt·aked shock of hair, his Secret St·rvice agents and his ever­present press entourage, projects an aura ofsuccess. 
Tht· lanky Cranston, with his jokes about his baldness, his meager retinue and his earnest warnings about the arms race, comes across as a man trying for third place. 
That, in fact, is exactly what he says ht· is doing. Over and over, on his most recent tour of Iowa, he told audienn·s that his objective is to win a "ckar" third in the state's Feb. 20 precinct caucuses and in New llampshirt·'s presidential primary on 
• Ft·h. 2H. 
That, he argues, would put him in a beuer position to overtake the more conservative Glenn in later primaries and then go head-to-head with his fellow liberal Mondale. 
Sergio Bendixen, Cranston's cam­paign manager, concedes "it will be difficult in Iowa ...and even more difficult in New Hampshire" for Cranston to emerge in a "dear fas­hion" as the winner among the second-tier candidates. 
"In spite of the organization, Cranston is still an unknown quan­tity here," says Chuck Gifford, politi­cal director of the United Auto Workers, which supports Mondale. "That is awfully hard to overcome on a personal basis." 
Yet Cranston soldiers on, slogging through his third Iowa winter since announcing in December 1981 that he was considering a race for the White House. 
On a flight from Des Moines to Council Bluffs. he tells a reporter he is not disturbed by the relative lack of press attention. Of the Glrroll County meeting, he says, "I was there for the Iowans." 
He says he chose to pass up Secret Service protection, at least for now, because, "It keeps you from the people," and would interfere with the small, informal meetings he likes to hold. 
Yes, he says later, he will make "major efforts to make significant cuts in aspects ofmilitary spending." 
No, he says, he does not see "evidence of any significant progress in dealing with the underlying problems of the economy." 
Gordon Saari doesn't believe in wasting ex­ercise time. Rather than driving to the suburbsfor a little cross-country skiing, Saari rigged up his bicycle to carry his equipment. Saari was spotted on route9 in Worcester, Mass., on his way to drop­ping off his bike at a fiend's house in Spencer before setting out to ski. 
Official leaks confidential data 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -An Interior Department official passed con­fidential data to a coal company lawyer more than a month before the federal agency auctioned more than 1 billion tons of federally owned coal, The Washington Post said in today's editions. 
The Post said Interior official David Russell told the lawyer, Brent Kunz of Cheyenne, Wyo., the mini­mum amount the agency would ac­cept as a bid from his company, Texas Energy Services Inc. of 
report to the Justice Department, 
which concluded in November that 
the case did not warrant criminal 
prosecution, the newspaper said. 
Interior Secretary William P. Clark removed Russell from his job last month as director of the Minerals Management Service. Rus­sell's removal was part of a 
departmental shake-up of former top deputies to ex-Secretary james Watt. 
The Post said Russell is quoted in the report as denying that he passed the information to Kunz and that Russell says he has "no idea" why Kunz claims Russell did so. 
The newspaper report says Rus­sell volunteered the information on a tract sought by Texas Energy and two others, without mentioning that it was confidential, the Post said. The tract in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming was put on the auction block in April 1982. 
Interior Department spokesman Tom DeRocco said he was un­familiar with the agency report. 
Pendley also was removed from his post in last month's shake-up. 
continuedfrom page 1 
Initially Rock met with Dean Rot·mer, who turned the case over to an insuranct· rt·presentative. 
The llniwrsity's Fort Wayne in­surance daims managn, according to Rock, tlrst assured him that he would receive a t·he<:k by the end of january, hut now argut·s that there is some qut·stion as to the University's liability in tht· case. 
Then· was no warning that such an evt·nt might occur, according to Rock. lie said that prior to Christmas hrt·ak, "I wt·nt to ask the st-curity departmt·nt if it would he possible to 
• • • Snow 

park in front of Stepan Center. They told me to park in D-2. I asked where and was just told ·anywhere.' " 
Rock said the plow avoided a similar car parked nearby. He parked near the hack fence. but said there were also 30 t•> 40 cars in the middle portion of the lot: 
Rock suggested that certain lots he set aside in the future for parking over break. and forms of some type fikd with security in order to prevent the s.une kind of mishap. He also agreed that hauling the snow might be another alternative. 
Cheyenne, on a large coal tract being put up for auction. The newspaper quoted what it said were sworn statements in a report by the 
Attention NO-SMC Council for 
Interior Department's inspector general. 
the RetardedVolunteers 
The inspector general referred his 
Dance: Friday, Jan. 27 7:30-10:00 p.m. 
Saturday Rec: Jan. 28 9:00-11:30 a.m. 
Come and have fun and bring friends! 
Sophomore Literary Festival Writing Conter 
Open to all Grad and UndF ad students Poetry and prose accepted with no length requirements Submit one copy with name and address to: 309 O'Shag by Feb. 10, 1984 Winners will be notified by Feb. 17 For more information call: Patrick McManus 283 -I 754 Sponsored by sophomorp Literary Festival 
PIZZA 

16" LARGE. ....... $6.19 
Extra Toppings S1.00 ea. 
Includes Free Delivery to ND & SMC 
Cuban pullout predicted 
Tu•o Cuhan soldiers harp,ain for clotbing at a are based, is breaki11g camp. but ill Addis Ababa, IJazaar ill Dire /Jau•a, Ethiopia, recent~)'. Tbere is the capital, Westenz diplomats predict a llo sign yet that the Cuhall armyforce around tbis u•ithdrau•al of as much as half the Cuba11 80-year-old railu•ay tOU'11, !l'bere several units presence. 
Friday,January 27, 1984-page 7 
Vieweoint 
Assassins cannot kill memory of Kerr 
Editor's note: This is the second in a two-part series on the assassination ofMalcolm Kerr, pn•sident of the American University in Beirut. 
Patrick Gaffney· 
Guest column 
1 

Regardless of the timing for the withdrawal from Lebanon, and the eventual face-saving excuse which will justify it, Beirut is more than a passing headache. For many, it is, has been and hopefully will continue to be a home. 
Malcolm Kerr, a highly respected teacher, scholar and extremely popular administrator belonged to this group. For this reason his . murderers, as time will tell, got the wrong man. 
It was their failure to recognize the depth of his personal devotion and the quality of his proven commitment to the welfare of Lebanon that was their most serious structure mistake. 
The real tribute to Kerr is not simply to abandon what is now clearly an impossible program and a distasteful entanglement but to learn to live in and to deeply appreciate a world of wonderful differences, even if they are far ;tway from headlines. 
Long after Lebanon has been relegated to the journalistic oblivion of Iran, Afghanistan and Chad, the memory of Malcolm Kerr will summon people to seek wisdom. 
Kerr's most widely known book, a veritable best seller of its genre, is entitled The Arab Cold War. It is being used this semester in a course taught in our anthropology depart­ment. 
In the preface ofthat marvelous book, there is a casual, but revealing analogy that includes an explicit local allusion: 
Sincejune, 1967, Arabpolitics have ceased to be fun. In the good old days mosi Arabs refused to take themselves very serious~y, and this made it easier to take a relaxed view ofthefew who possessed intimation ofsome immortal mission. It was like watching Princeton play Columbia on a muddy after­noon. 
The june war was like a disasterous game against Notre Dame which Princeton im­pulsively added to its schedule, leaving several players crippled for life and the I others so embittered that they took to fight­ing viciously among themselves instead of scrimmaging happily as before. 
This may be instructive for the student of politics, but as one who all his life has had friendships and memories among theArabs to chensh, I have found no relish in describ­ing it. 
The first time I met Malcolm Kerr, in Cairo, several years ago. I happened to remind him of this remark and I told him that it had stuck in my memory because Notre Dame was my school. He shared my small delight at finding an unexpected mention of my alma mater. 
But then there followed a more distracted air as though the real meaning conveyed by this simile returned to him. He replied with only halfa smile, "And l'm from Princeton." 
Finally, let me give Malcolm himselfthe last word. His commendation of Albert Hourani, another great scholar of Ncar Eastern society and culture, applies to himself: "The effort to comprehend an alien culture is surely a worthy tradition in itself; the important thing is to do it with receptivity and imagination. as well as with skill." 
Father Patrick D. Gaffney is a professor in the Department ofAnthropologyat Notre Dame. 
The real threat of 1984 at Notre Dame 
Although the year is only 2 7 daysold, many people are tired ofGeorge Orwell's 1984. 
The book, embossed with a com­memorative seal, has climbed to number one on several bestseller lists around the country. And businessmen have been more than happy 
Keith Picher 
Profundity's demise 
to to join the fun. hawking posters and T-shirts with Star-Wars-like abandon. 
At Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, as on any campus, mentioning 1984 has become the "in thing." The latest fad is 1984 parties where students wear drab clothes or the garb oftheir favorite University official. 
While students are quick to equate ad­ministrators with the Junior Anti-Sex League, Big Brother or the Thought Police, the com­parisons are often shallow. In fact, the most lucid example ofOrwell's world went, for the most part, unnoticed in yesterday's issue of 
The Observer. 

It seems Student Activities wants each club president to submit a roster with the names and J.D.'s ofall members so the University can have "concrete data to make statements about student involvement at Notre Dame." 
James McDonnell, director of Student Ac­tivities, says such data "could assist in plan­ning programs and activities while allowing us to come to an understanding ofwhere we are at Notre Dame." 
His motives sound pure enough. Admis­sions wants information to impress high school seniors with, and student activities wants to promote programs whose appeal is weak in particular colleges and classes. 
For instance, if students in business didn't put in as much volunteer work as those in other colleges, the University would take spe­cial steps to promote such activities for that 
group. Not even the Party kept such close tabs 
on Winston Smith's volunteer activities. 
It's not obvious that the University has any 
business collecting such data, much less ask­
ing club presidents to provide it. Unless the 
data is analyzed for hundreds of factors apart 
from class and college, the conclusions will be 
unscientific. 

The real problem is that the lhiversity can­not collect information for groups without collecting that ofindividuals. IfJames McDon­nell wants to know what senior philosophy majors do, he'll have to know exactly what I do. 
Of course there's no reason to be threatened, right? M ·lst students really wouldn't care if the entire world knew the clubs they belonged to. 
Unfortunately, the University is planning to use similar tactics to find out more about us. 
"New identification cards with all kinds of uses" will hit the campus next semester, McDonnell notes. Some of us aren't quite as 
ecstatic as he seems to be. The cards wiiJ 
enable the University to determine how many 
and which students attend concerts. dances, 
lectures and similar events. 

Students really don't want to be bothered with more detex machines, especially when going to events like concerts, lectures and dances. But forget the inconvenience -how much personal information should we let the University stick its nose into? 
The University certainly has no evil inten­tions, and probably would never usc the in­formation they collect on individual students for anything. What is not clear is whether they should even have access to such data. 
Once again the administration is asking us to trust them. As long as everyone who works for the University is perfect, we have nothing to worry about. Some ofus, however, are tired ofhaving to trust administrators who obvious­ly don't trust us. 
Welcome to 1984. 

P.O. BoxQ 


Food marathon 
DearEditor: 
In response to the recent articles in The Ob­server concerning the 10,000 calorie marat­hon, the Law School Administration and Student Bar Association would like to make 

-:/
clear that this was in no way a Law School sponsored or encouraged activity. It was unfortunate that this coincided with the World Hunger Coalition's campaign. As 
~:\
president of the Bar Association I would like to state publicly that the Law School, the stu­dents and the administration support tile goals and applauds the achievements of the campus World Hunger Coalition. 
Thomas Grant _ 
Erratum 

Relax, Rich Yohon hasn't had a face lift. Yes­terday's Campus Comments feature paired 
FIG.l: CHAIN RutTI(l-l 
Yohon's words with his roommate's picture. 
PI.J\N1 UNDER CONSTRUCTION 
The Observer regrets the error. 
Editorial Board  DepartmentManagers  
Editor-in-Chief............................... David Dziedzic  
P. 0. BoxQ, NotreDame,IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Managing Editor .......................Margaret Fosmoe  Business Manager ..................Christopher Owen  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the l'ni­ Executive Editor................................. Paul McGinn  Controller.................  ...........Alex Szilvas  
versity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect  News Editor................................. Bob Vonderheide  .4dr,ertising Manager..  ............Jeanie Poole  
the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as ac­ News Edttor.................................... Mark Worscheh  Circulation Manager.  ...........Mark Miotto  
curately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinon of a  Saint Mary's Editor ..................Anne Monastyrski  .~vstems Manager ......... .................Kevin Williams  
majority ofthe Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters, and the Inside Column present  Sports Editor .................................Michael Sullivan  
the views oftheir authors. Column space is available to all members ofthe community.  Viewpoint Editor ................................Keith Picher  Founded November 3, 1966  
and the free expression ofvarying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged.  Features Editor............................... Sarah Hamilton  
Photo Editor.......................................... Scott Bower  

The Observer 
Lebanese government reinstates servicemen 

Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -President Amm (iemayt:l's administration on Yl"Stt·rtlay bowed to demands by Druse lt:ader Walidjumblatt that the army reinstate Druse soldiers who rt:li.tst·d to fight in civil warfare in St·ptember. 
Tht· rcinstatt·ment is designed to hdp revive a Saudi-sponsored st·curity plan stalled by demands from Jumblatt, said Prime Minister Shafik Wazzan. 
An estimated 500 to 800 Druse scrvict·men had refused to fight in the three weeks of fierce battling that pitted the army and Christian rightist militias against leftist Druse militiamen. The Druse sect's creed is based on Islam. 
The Druse soldiers were relieved from active duty with the army, but will be reinstated by the army high command within 48 hours, Wazzan announced. 
Promotions for the Druse soldiers 
-another demand by Jumblatt ­
will then be considered, Wazzan 
said following a conference with Gemayel and Foreign Minister Eli Salem at the presidential palace in suburban Baabda. 
The prime minister said the action was taken in response to an appeal by Saudi Arabia's King Fahd. 
The l.t:banese government, backed by Saudi Arabia, is pushing a 
• • . March 
continuedfrom page I 
After a prayer, the South Bend delegation heard Indiana Republican Sens. Richard Lugar and Dan Quayle speak. Both senators reiterated their support of the pro­life movement. Donovan said, "The senators arc very pro-life. I think it's important for us to reinforce and en­courage them to keep voting against abortion to show that their con­stituents arc supporting them." 
Donovan reported some senators said that a change of the Supreme Court decision is I 0 years off. Progress is being made, as the move­ment has maintained the prt·vention of federal funding of abortions, and the present administration ha.o; shown promising signs. But, as both Smith and Donovan said, progress is slow. 
• • • Decio 
continued/rom page I 
space and perhaps the College of Arts and Letters will retain part of it for other uses. 
When tht· weather beomes warm enough, tht· road and sidewalks around Declo Faculty Hall will be laid in. Landscaping is planned to complete an exterior that Skurski said wa.'i designed to complement other buildings on that part of campus. The general consensus seems to be, as Dedrick said, that the faculty "will be very happy when moved in there." 
.............. 
Buy· ~ 
Observer 
~lassifieds 


pacification plan designed to set up bufft·r zones that would separate the country's warring factions. 
The deadlock over the plan and the lack of any progress toward a Moslem-Christian reconciliation have fueled fears among Western diplomats. Lebanese officials and citizens that a new round ofcivil war could break out any time. 
A U.S. Embassy official denied rumors that the embassy was quietly advising Americans to leave Beirut for a while. But the official, who asked for anonymity, said that people who ask for embassy advice on security are advised to "reconsider their reasons for being here." 
"They have to decide for them­~lves whether they really need to be in Beirut now," he said. 
Meanwhile, Druse militiamen and government troops traded sporadic artillery and mortar fire yesterday under heavy rains in the hills above the U.S. Marine base southeast of Beirut. Police said no casualties were reported. 
Friday, January 27, 1984-page 8 
Lebanese Army in. the area. This street is along Beirut'sfamous "Green Line" which separates the city's predominantly Moslem and Christian sec-, tors. 
Take ChargeAt 22. 

In most jobs, at 22 care of sophisticated you're near the bottom equipment worth 
·­
of the ladder. millions of dollars. 
·I 
In the Navy, at It's a bigger chal-rl 22 you can be a leader. lenge and a lot more After just 16 weeks responsibility than of leadership training, most corporations give you're an officer. You'll you at 22. The rewards have the kind of job .____._______.~-....u~-....~L-1 are bigger, too. There's 
your education and training prepared a comprehensive package of benefits, you for, and the decision-making au-including special duty pay. The starting thority you need to make the most of it. salary is $17,000-more than most com-
As a college graduate and officer panies would pay you right out of college. candidate, your Navy training is geared After four years, with regular promo-to making you a leader. There is no boot tions and pay increases, your salary will camp. Instead, you receive professional have increased to as much as $31,000. training to help you build the technical As a Navy officer, you grow, through and management skills you'll need as a new challenges, new tests of your skills, Navy officer. -l and new opportunities
This training is r ~v~;;O;;U-;:;-;T-;----w;;; to advance your edu-
INFORMATION CENTER 
I 

designed to instill P.O. Box 5ooo. Clifton, NJ o1015 cation, including the confidence by first-0 I'm ready to take charge. Tell me more about I possibility of attending
the Navy's officer programs. (!Z)G)
hand experience. You I graduate school while 
Nam~---=------~--~~--~~---­
learn by doing. On I you're in the Navy.
First !Please Pr;ntJ Last
Address______________Apt. 11----­
your first sea tour, City·______state___zip...__ I Don't just take a 
you're responsible for Age...___tCollege;un;versity I job. Become a Navy managing the work of :I:Year in calleg.,______+oP,______ officer, and take charge. up to 30 men and the I I.Major/Minor I Even at 22. 
Phone Number

I I
I Area Code/ Best Time to CaJJ This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to fur-
I

I k~:w~~Ke %:~e~~~:::'h!~~"to"Jle~=~~1~e ~~eckj~· o~hNa~;7,o':i~
Lt=f:.:hi:::o:=l::. ____ -_ J 
NavyOfficers 
Get ResponsibilityFast. 

Showcase 
~riday,)anuary 27, 1984-page 9 

Letters to a Lonely God 
A Catholic father 
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 
H
e was a middle-aged Catholic 
father brought up in an old­
fashioned tradition. He and his wife 
had worried and sacrificed all their 
adult life to raise a large family, 
teaching them the Christian 
decencies and educating them 
through college and graduate 
school; loving each child and being 
patient with him or her; giving the 
family every advantage which would 
not spoil them. The couple had lived 
through rough times when money 
was short and when the father ofthe 
brood suffered heart attacks from 
the effects oftension and overwork. 
No~. the oldest boy, six years out of Notre Dame, was living with a young woman without benefit of clergy. The father, knowing the ways ofthe world, wants to be patient and compassionate with his first-born. "I' ve been quiet for a year," he told me, "though I haven't liked the ar­rangement. My wife and I are fond of 
the young lady, and we've been hoping for a wedding. The time has come, I think, when I should tell my son he is living in an occasion ofsin." 
His voice broke, as though he was close to tears. 
I'm the family priest trying to be of help. Here was a middle-aged layman who has lived through the changes in the Catholic Church. He with his wife could have had a small­er family ifthey had compromised their Catholic consciences by practising birth control. He had seen his own brother dispensed ofhis vows as a priest and married in a sacramental union blessed by the Church. Here he was, in this naughty and permissive world, this decade of collapsed traditions, his 
anecdote: "The old man slipped me the word: 'You are living in sin.' " Such an episode is unlimited in the emotional mileage it offers. A Cath­olic son could cry himselfto sleep for months remembering his mot­her's heart is broken because her baby has grown up to live in sin. 
South Bend Civic Theatre 
Edward Albee's 
Who's Afraid of VIrginia Woolf? 
Directed by Jim Coppens 


Thursdays thru Saturdays February 2-3-4, 9-10-11, 16-17-18 
701 Portage Awe. (The FlnhHH) South Bend, IIICI. 
For nckets, Call: 233-0683 291-8923 234-5696 

Curtain nme: 8:30 p.m. 
Special prices for students are available. 
faith in an old-fashioned morality, with its quaint, dated idiom, "living in an occasion ofsin." I could have worshipped him for the graces he lives by. The fundamental decencies were never updated by Vatican II so far as I know. It was inspiring to hear this father willing to challenge his son's conscience with the absolutes 
ofthe Ten Commandments. 
"He's driving me crazy," the father said. "He should marry the girl, or break offthe relationship. I'm going to take him aside and tell him he's living in sin, though his mother and I would be happy to welcome his girlfriend as a member ofthe fami­ly." 
He was hoping, I suspect, that I 
could lend him courage for the con­
frontation. He was also testing my 
approval and hoping for advice. "As 
a father," I said, "you can give your 
children any advice that you want 
to; you have earned that right. I 

would be careful, ifI were you, of 
telling him he is living in sin. He may 
reject that. He may feel, in fact, that 
he's doing the best he can, being 
faithful to one woman at a time." 
The young man, though he loves 
and respects his parents, was 
capable oflaughing at his father. He 
enjoys dramatics enough so that he 
would remember as a highlight the 
time his father said: "You are living 
in sin." He might feel he had joined 
the great Irish tradition oflapsed 
sons like ]amesjoyce or Eugene 
O'Neill who quarreled with their 
families over religion, and authors 
who have made a literary genre out 
of their disenchantments with the 
ancient faith that limits freedom. I 
could hear it being told as an 
This traditional father blinked at me as though I were the new voice oftolerance in his reformed Church. "Don't you think he is living in sin?" 
"Objectively, according to the old rules, his living arrangement is sin­ful," I said, because I don't know a more modern way ofputting it. "In his conscience, where guilt lives, he may be very comfortable, not caring what the Catholic Church teaches." 
"Should I go on saying nothing?," 

the father asked, "Not even pointing 
out that he's a bad example to his sis­
ters and brothers?" 
He is so great as a father. He must know better than any priest could tell him how to deal with his son, let­ting the young man know that he's into a lifestyle that is disappointing, compromising the values ofthe home and family in which he was raised. A grown man should be able to make his boy feel the paternal sad­ness because the boy is negligent of his own fulfillment as a husband and father, in company with a woman fulfilled in becoming a wife and mot­her. Parents, seriously Catholic, get into·accusatory showdowns with their offspring, where kids feel that they are being nailed to the wall with denominational definitions. The tradition that underlies all definitions begins with a few verses at the beginningof"Genesis." A man leaves his father and mother in obedience to the mandate ofGod supporting creation. 
The news ofthe sweetness of being parents should be passed on by the men and women who have been there. ACatholic father blessed with eight children should be wise enough to know that love is best when it is fruitful. He should be grieved ifhe has raised a son who lets himselfbe cheated ofthe joy of becominga father himself, as though having children weren't an un­rivalled benefit. 
"You needn't quarrel with your son on behalfofthe Church," I told him. I don't want the discussion be­tween them to be as narrow as whether the boy is living in sin. The boy has other lessons than the Cath­olic one to learn from his parents. 
•THEATRE 

"Now Like a Dream," a new one-act historical drama on the life of Schuyler Colfax, a congressman and vice-president during the Civil War and Reconstruction Era, will be presented this weekend. Perfor­mances will be held at 1: IS and 3: IS on Sunday in the courtroom of the Northern Indiana Historical Society Museum at Il2 S. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend. 
•MUSIC 

The Chicago Ensemble will be performing this Sunday at 4 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. This ensemble ofviolin, viola, cello, flute, and piano offers programs offamiliar masterpieces, lesser known works from the past, and contemporary music by American composers. Notre Dame violinist laura Klugherz and cellist Karen Buranskas will be performing in the concert. 
Louise Fallon will be presentingaSenior Viola Recital on Saturday at 4 p.m. in the Annenburg. 
•ART 

Art exhibits at St. Mary's Moreau Hall will continue this weekend. In the Moreau Gallery, "Indiana Printmakers Invitational" is being presented while in the Hammes and little Theatre Galleries "Marilyn Sward: Papermaker" may be viewed. Gallery hours' for the weekend are today and Sunday 1-3 p.m. 
•MASS The Masses this Sunday in Sacred Heart Church will have the 
following celebrants: Fr. Thomas Blantz, at S:lS p.m. (Saturday night vikil) Fr. Frank Cafarelli, at 9 a.m. Fr. Peter Rocca, at 10:30 a.m. Fr. David Schlaver, at 12:IS a.m. 
•MOVIES 

"Sophie's Choice," starring Meryl Streep, will be shown tonight in the Engineering Auditorium. The film depicts the tragic story of Sophie, a survivor ofaNazi concentration camp, who struggles with the devastating secrets ofher past. The trauma mounts as she must also confront the schizophrenic tendencies ofher lover. Showings are at 7 and 9 p.m. and admission is 51. 
The Friday Night Film Series presents the 1982 Frenchfilm "Coup de Torchon" at 7:30 and 9:40 tonight in the Annenburg. Set in a dilapidated, colonial African village, "Coup" is the suspenseful story ofthe attempts ofthe town's ineffectual police officer to eliminate his enemies via murder. Admission is S2. 
The intense thriller "Fail Safe" starring Henry Fonda will be shown tonight at The Center for Social Concerns at 7 and 9. Admission is free. 
•NAZZ 

TonightJohn Kennedy and]oe Dolan will present a Nazz favorite -"Songs and Stories from the Pubs oflreland," beginning at 9. Par 3 will be performing Saturday night at 10. The band includes Rob Bayne, J.P. Keyes, Tim Keyes, and Scott O'Grady. 
Chicago Ense01ble to appear this Sunday 
T
received his B.A. in Music from the Special to The Observer University ofChicago, was a Ditson Fellowship winner at Yale Univer­he University ofNotre Dame sity where he received his master's Department ofMusic and Uni­degree, and was a postgraduate stu­versity Artists Series will present the dent at the]uilliard School ofMusic. Chicago Ensemble in concert on Susan Levitin, flutist, is a graduate of Sunday, January 29 at 4 p.m. in the the Eastman School ofMusic. In Annenberg Auditorium ofthe Snite 1981 Mrs. Levitin was a soloist with Museum. The ensemble will per­the Olicago String Ensemble and has form the Prokofiev "Sonata in D appeared on the Dame Myra Hess Major" for Flute and Piano, the Concert Series at the Chicago Cui· Brahms "Piano Quartet inC minor," tural Center. Michael Masters, cel­and George Crumb's "Voice ofthe list, first prize winner ofthe Whale.'' Also included on the Portuguese "Costa del Sol" Cello program will be the Boccherini Competition, principal cellist at the "Quintet in C Major" with violinist Spoleto (Italy) Festival and record­Laura Klugherz and cellist Karen ing artist on Elektra-Asylum records, Buranskas, both professors of Music has earned international stature. He at Notre Dame. General admission is is on the faculty at the University of 
S2, and Sl for students. Wisconsin, Parkside, and The Wis­consin Conservatory of Music. 
In their sixth season together, the Chicago Ensemble has delighted For further information, contact critics and audiences alike. Gerald Eric Kuehner, Music Department, at Rizzer, pianist and Artistic Director, 239-6201. 
p--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Sports Briefs 
Saint Mary's is host to the Roundball Classic Basket­hall Tournament. beginning today at 6 p.m. at the Angda Athletic Facility when the Belles take on Moraine Valley Junior College. That gamt.· will he followed at approximatdy 8 p.m. with Purdue-Calumet vs. Michigan-Dearborn. The consolation game will be played Satur­day at 10 a.m. followed hy the championship game at noon. -The Obsen,f'r 
Workouts for the 54th Bengal Bouts have begun 
and will continue throughout the semester leading up to the fights. No previous experience is necessary. Workouts begin at 4 p.m. every day in the north dome ofthe ACC. For information, call Angc:lo Perino at 3348, Tom Lezynski at 1728, or Mike Latz at 8308. -The OhsenJer 
A Track competitionis being sponsored by the NVA office. Events include 60-yard low hurdles, a mile run, a four-lap rday, 60-yard dash, 440-yard and 880-yard runs, an eight-lap relay, high jump, and broad jump. Points will be awarded for first and second place halls as ranked by points compiled hy individuals. To sign up, call 239-61 00 or stop by the NVA office in the ACC. -The Observt'T' 
A Racquetball Clinic for beginners is being offered for students, faculty, and staff on Jan. 30 at 7 p.m. at ACC Court 2. Racquets will he provided and there is no charge. Call 239-6100 for more info. -The Observer 
Advanced Lifesavingwill be offered Saturday after­noons from 12-3 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial Pool. Classes will begin tomorrow, January 28, and will run for seven weeks. For more information, call Sharon Athey at 277-8480. -The Observer 
The Off-Canlpushockevte3lllplays Monday, 
Jan. ~o. at 10:~0 g.m. in ilw ACC. -The Obsen.ff 
Friday,January 27, 1984-page 10 
An agility and quickness program will be 
starting Monday, January 30. The workout will include quickness and agility drills along with stretching exercises. Sessions will be held on Mondays and Thursdays from 4 to 6 p.m. If you plan on participating, please attend the first meeting on Monday in the ACC Pit. -The Observer 
The ND Martial Arts Institutewill have its first season of the spring semester tomorrow night at 7 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial in room 219. Limited new membership will be offered on a first-come, first-serve basis. If you have any questions, call 1384 or 3337.-The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club will hold an 
organizational meeting for the spring semester today at 8:30p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. New players are encouraged to attend. No experience is necessary. Contact Geoff Branigan ( 3665) for more information. The guest speaker will he Matt Zapf. -The Ob­sen,er 
Stretchercise classes will be given by the NVA on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:30 to 6: I 5 in the Auxiliary Gym of the ACC. The classes, which began yesterday, emphasize stretching and light exercise. The classes are designed for faculty and staffwho have not been active recently. If you have any questions, call 239­6690. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus hockey team will be 
practicing Sunday night, Jan. 29, at 11:30 in the north dome of the ACC. Everyone should bring five dollars to the practice. A final team will be established. Those with questions should call Mike Flynn at 277-7571. -The Observer 
A downhill ski package for Royal Valley is being offered by the NVA. The package, which includes transportation, lift tickets, ski rental, and lessons, covers the next three Tuesday nights. You can buy the package for one, two, or all three of the dates. For more information, call the NVA office at 239-6690. -The Observer 
NBA Standings 
Eastern Conference Atlantic Dlvllllon 
w L  Pet. GB  
Boston  34 9  .791  
Philadelphia  29 14  674 5  
New York  24 18  571 95  
New Jersey  22 22  500 12.5  
Washington  19 25  .432 15.5  
Central Division  
Milwaukee  24 19  .558  
Delroil  23 19  548 5  
Allanla  24 20  .545 .5  
Chicago  16 24  400 6.5  
Indiana  12 29  293 11  
Cleveland  12 30  286 11 5  
Western Conference  
Midwest Dlvlalon  
w L  Pet. GB  
Utah  27 16  628  
Dallas  25 19  568 2.5  
SanAntonto  20 24  .455 7.5  
Denver  19 25  .432 8.5  
Houston  18 26  .409 9.5  
KansasC1!y  17 25  405 9.5  
Pacific Division  
Los Angeles  26 16  619\  
Portland  27 18  .600 5  
SeaHie  22 19  .537 3.5  
Golden Slate  20 25  444 7.5  
Phoenix  19 24  .442 7.5  
San D1ego  15 28  349 11.5  
Yesterday's Reaulta  

New York 104. Washington 97 Denver 126. Ch1cago 125 San An!omo 123. Golden Slate 116 Seatlle 114, Kansas City 1 06 Utah 125, New Jersey 115 Los Angeles 131 , Houston 1 02 San Diego 119. Phoemx 1 01 
The Obsen•er Notre Dame offk'e, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Mond;~y through Friday. The Obsert•er Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday though Friday. Deadline for next­day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prt·paid, either in person
Classifieds 
or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five characters per day. 1 
NOTICES 
Experienced Typ1st Mrs. Bedford Hours 8AM!o5PM Mon thru Fri 288-2107 

CROSS COUNTRY SKI RENTALS THURSDAY THRU SUNDAY. CALL NVA AT 239-8100 
MCAT USED KAPLAN BOOKS 1071 
THE KEENAN REVUE IS COMING II n will takap!Ke In O'Laughln AudMortum Ill St. Mary's on Feb. 1, 3, -4. Stay tuned lor datalla on tlcklll dlatrlbutlon. endad 
TYPING SERVICE 277-6045 WILL PICK UP & DELIVER 

SR. MARITA'S PRIMARY DAY SCHOOL 
T utorlng begins thts -Meal at Main Circle a! 1:15 Mon.-Fri. Call John (1432) lor more Into. 
GOOD LUCK ON THE BACK NINE I THE MOST DIFFICULT GAME OF GOLF YOU'LL EVER PLAY I 
TRAVEL FIELD OPPORTUNITY-EARN MONEY AND GAIN VALUABLE MARKETING EXPERIENCE. BE A REP­RESENTATIVE FOR SPRING BREAK TRIP TO FLORIDA. CALL CAMPUS MARKETING AT (312) 858-4887 COL­LECT. 
ILOST/FOUND I 
Los!: One gray and while !hin-s!nped long-sleeve shirt accidentally m1splaced 1n someone's laundry by !he St. MIChael's dry cleaning serv1ce. II you have rt. please return to Jim a! X 1101 
LOST. Navy wool s!ad1um coal a! !he hockey party Sat mghl Please call 284­5176 
ONE HUNDRED DOLLAR REWARD al­tered by Unlled L1mo. A !an. brown suttcase wtlh a cord around 11 was lost on Jan 15th a! Noire Dame Please call Steve a! Un1ted Llmo--674-6993 
FOUND· SHARP CALCULATOR IN AM 202 BUSINESS ADMIN ON 1/23 LOST. DARK BLUE NORTH FACE COAT ON JAN 18 AT SENIOR BAR. PLEASE CALL 1695. 
LOST: Jan. 25 st Senior Bar -navy pea coat. Please call 277-0466 
LOST: ONE BLACK WALLET AT CORBY'S 01'1 WEDNESDAY NIGHT. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 272-G91. 
REWARD. 
FOR RENT 
ROOM · Sale wrth off-s1reel parking. was­her & dryer. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 
APARTMENT FOR RENT CLOSE TO CAMPUS, N.D. AVE. PLEASE CALL GREG M. 277-6239 
FURNISHED HOME FOR RENT 277­
3604 

Student rental: 5-6 bedroom house. fireplace. dishwasher. & washer & dryer. Call232-4057 or 272-7767. 
cMiPus...view~·:M'Ai:E'···Fii:iOM'-4A':re 
wanted. 23-4-Q537 
WANTED 

need SEVEN (7) DEPAUL llxl call Sheila 
3-484 

Riders needed to Dayton 2/0&-2112 Call Dave 23-4-0537 
Male roommate needed-CAMPUS VIEW. Call23-4-0537 
Two female roommates needed im~ mediately Campus View. Call 284-5342 or 277-2086. 
Need R1ders lo St. Louis on February 3. Call Lauren 277-4428. 
WANTED: 2 BILLY JOEL TICKETS. CALL 272-5877 AFTER 6:00PM 
NeedridetoBioomington.IN(IU) Feb. 3-5 or any weekend call John 23-4-7033 
FOR SALE 
Notre Dame house for sale, 4 bedrooms, 15 m1ns. !rom campus. Assumable mortgage. Good 1nves!men1 lor parents. Call 283-6243 
FOR SALE: single bed, $50.00. snow tires size 14, $40.00 239-5639 during !he day 
74 FORD VAN FOR SALE Customized ln1enor. New Aula. Trans.. !ires, battery. Reliable running cond. Asking$1450. Call Bob a! 283-8552 or Paul at 283-8458. 
HOCKEY JERSEY-AUTHENTIC NEW YORK RANGERS TEAM ISSUE HOME JERSEY $75 TIM 2215 
FOR SALE HP-33E CALCULATOR CALL FRED AT 1760 
HIGH-TECH STEREO Yamaha PX2 automated linear !racking TT David Hatler amps:115 w/ch Nakamichi Dragon tape deck Magneplanar MG2b speakers all brand new;ITIIsl sell CARL283-103-4 
TICKETS 
I NEED 2 DEPAUL TIX. CALL DAVE AT 1801. 
NEED 4 TIX(3 TOGETHER) FOR DEPAUL-CALL JIM AT 8951 
FOUR MARYLAND TIX NEEDED, STU­DENT OR GA. FOR VISITING LEFTY HATERS. CALL KEVIN at 8214 
Do You need basketball tickets? We've got them I Rich uncle died and left 6 TICK­ETS tor all remaining games including MARQUETTE and DEPAUL. Call Pete 3508. NOWIII 
Need 2-4 Maryland GA's Call Jill 284­5148 
NEED 4 MARQUETTE TIX STEVE 1760 
HELPII Need 2 tiks to MU/ND game. Call Marty at x3471 
NEEDED 2 Billy Joel sludenl!ix call Joe a! 8437 
I NEED MARQUETTE T!X. STUD OR GA. CALL BILL al1059. 
PERSONALS 
SENIORS: Volunteer Work with HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES. Community living and service 1n PHOENIX, COLORADO. CALIFORNIA, AND OREGON. Deadline lor applications Feb.3. Call Mary Ann Roemer. 7949. REWRITE 
THE YELLOW SUBMARINE WILL DELIVER DELICIOUS SANDWICHES TO YOUR ROOM JUST CALL 272-4453 BETWEEN 8 and 11 pm MON-SAT. 
The KISS ARMY is abou!ll BEWARE ... 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TIL 3AM. U.S. 31 N.• ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Travel Field Opportunrty. Earn Money and Gain Valuable Marketing Experience. Be a Replllsenlative lor Spring Break Trip to Florida. Call Campus Marketing a1312­858-4887 collect 
FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE. SEND A BELL YGRAM TO YOUR SHEIK I PH. 272-1858 
I am 29 years old. and I've go11hree years left Ia go on a burglary oonviclion (a! !he Indiana Stale Penrtentiary). I'm looking lor a friend. Please wrrte me a!: R. A. 
Trump" Troxail. P.O. Box 41, Michigan Cily. Indiana. 46360. I would be really lhanki.JI. 
John Ubart: 
Sunday Keenan 7PM gym4 
BETHEAEI 
To 811 users of The Kangaroo KonMCIIon 
Milo's getting annoyed wrth lha amount of disk space used by p-notes, and he's galling rudy to wipe • bunch outl II you haven't been on in a while. log on 
•nd clean out your mall bafora Milo cloaal 
Zenker Harris 8ox227 

ARE YOU INTERESTED IN LEARNING ABOUT THE NEWSPAPER BUSI­NESS?? The Observer is looking tor a lew more people lor the Production department In only lwo hours a week learn about newspaper layout and meet some lun people. 9-11 pm or IIpm-1 am shifts available. Enthusiasm and some talent w1lllead 10 a prestigious pay1ng tab. Stop by The Observer lo gain further Info. and till oul an application. 
IRISH BASKETBALL 7:30 TONITEI 
Golnsh! Beat Evansville! 

All righl, so !he women's basketball 
team hasn't been as good as you might 
have wanted. Bul Mary Di has vowed !hal 
things will change. So . 
come on out 1o !he ACC tonigh1 a! 7:3J and watch !he Lady Irish return 1o !heir winning ways and even their conference record agains1 !he Purple Aces of Evansville! 
MAGIC MAGIC MAGIC I Come see NO's own Gary O'Brien perform some amazing !ricks Saturday. January 28 a19pm in the SMC Snack Bar in Haggar College Cen­nter! He could surprise you I 
Darling, Thanks lor being my bes1 fnend. I love you lelia. XXDO Me 
Kathleen Geary. Have a Happy 19th Birthday! Love Karen S. 
SENIORS deposit lor SKI TRIP due Man by ?.Bring IT TO LaFort. THURS AND MON 6-8,FRI3-5 
SENIORS ALL MONEY FOR SKI TRIP DUE TUE. 31 5-7 LaFortl 
SENIOR SKI FITTINGS TUE 31, 5-7 LaFort. BE THERE I 
TO all who said "Glad to see you back": lHANKSIIIII Marty D. 
To all amici dl Tomasso Come halp me celebrate Tom Morrissy's and my birthday. tonight a! our humble abode at 105 Marquette .. 
"Beware the savage roar"... 1984... "We 
shall meet in !he pace where !here is no darkness (NAS)" ... !onile 
T,.,... 
Sorry about Wednaad•y night. Plaaae meet me In our party room tonight •nd give ma • chance to .x­plaln. Bob 
MEN OF NO: GET YOUR SMOOCHERS READY! CATHY "QUICK AND AG­GRESSIVE" SNAKARD WILL BE CELEBRATING HER 20TH THIS WEEKEND. ALL INTERESTED PARTIES SHOULD QUEUE AT 204 LEWIS FOR WHATEVER MAY BE OF­FERED!! BE A PART OF THE NOTRE DAME TRADITION I 
Joe Brunett11S a man-god! 
PHOBIA OF THE DAY 
Genophobia: lear ofsex 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MELINDAII Boy, il better be yo..-birthday ·cause 1 don·! know lor s11e. I gal !his informa11on from Shirley's desk. Bul, if ills your birthday, rt is in your best interests to know that you are one cool dudelle and I wan1 your autograph. Save some cake for me. Your Secret Admirer Forever, Madman. 
P.S. I wan! my laundry card back. 
KEENAN REVUE TICKETS will be dis­tributed on Sunday. January 29, 1984 at 4 p.m. at the Student Union Record Store and O'Laughlln Auditorium at Saint Mar;'s. The Revue will be held on Februar; 1,3,and 4at8 p.m. Semi-formal attire Is requested. 
Shannon lathe NBA Champ 
YO VERMIN MAN-GODS--You won'! be boss any bnger if you can'l beat a bunch ol "out of hand" field hockey players in a game of boo! hockey. Losers supply !he hea11 
DEAR CINDY, THOSE THREE PAGES WERE THE BEST COMPLIMENT I COULD EVER GET II LOVE DUDLFY 
chris thanx 4 !he ride --I'm praying 4 SNOW-k 
HEY (OC)GIRL,WHERE ARE MY B.JOEL TIX-BILL x3267 
J.A. -I'd say It, btA I can't/ 
Arizona-green?/? 
College educated co~le in!eres1ed in adopting an infant. II you know of anyone who is wnsidering placing a child lor adoption. please call (217) 398-4169 after 6p.m. 
Anger. Hale, Death. Suicide. THE END; This is !he end for those !hal can no! handle il. Is !hal you? Maybe no!, but ills ME II IF YOU FEEL LIKE KILLING YOUR­SELF ... DO ITIIIIII! 
I hope you have lun lomo~row mghl KD.I 
TO BEN, ONE OF THE GODS OF ROCK 105, WE JUST HAVE ONE QUESTION FOR YOU TODAY, ON YOUR 21ST BIRTHDAY YOU MAY BE BEAUTIFUL.• BUT CAN YOU ROCK N ROLL? LOVE. BEATRICE & FUNK WOMAN 
NAZZ NAZZ JOHN KENNEDY Fnday 9:00pm lnsh songs 

The Observer Friday,)anuary 27, 1984-page 11 
... 

Notre Dame hockey co-captain Brent Chap­man, here scoring one ofhis 19 goals so far this season, will lead the Irish into Ames, Ia., this 
Hockey team travels to Iowa State 
By SCOTI BICHA 
Sports Writer 
After a non-league encounter on Wednesday night with Lake Forest, which saw the Notre Dame hockey team's record fall to 15-1-0, the icers are on the road again. This weekend the Irish are in Ames, Ia. to take on 
the  Iowa  State  Cyclones  in  two  
Central  States  Collegiate  Hockey  
League contests.  

In Wednesday night's game with the Foresters, the Irish lead 6-5 after two periods but Lake Forest stormed 
As the Irish skate out on to the ice tonight and Saturday, the only thing that will be on their minds is improv­ing their already impressive 9-0-0 CSCHL slate. 

back with four goals in the third for a The series will mark the first 9-6win. meeting ever between the two Although no updated league schools. standings are available, Iowa State is Still out ofaction for the Irish will
expected to provide one of the big­be left wing Steve Ely. Ely has two
gest challenges on the Notre Dame more games remaining on his
league schedule. 
suspension which came as a result of
The Iowa State program is just I2 fights during last weekend's encoun­
years old, but in the past four years it ter with St. Norbert. Joe Bowie, who
has two CSCHL titles to its credit. 
scored two of the six goals in Wed­
"Iowa State has had a fine program nesday's 9-6 loss to Lake Forest,
over the years," says Notre Dame moves up from left defense to
coach Lefty Smith. "They're one of replace Ely at left wing.
the better club teams around. We'll have our work cut out for us." 
The Observer/Paul Ci.fd.relli 

weekend as they face the Cyclones offIowa State. For more on the weekend series, see Scott Bicha's story below. 
SMC swimmers open by breaking records 
By KATHLEEN NICHOLSON 
Sports Writer 
Since his arrival at Saint Mary's College in the fall of 1982, coach Scott Trees, a Notre Dame graduate student, has worked hard to build a strong swimming program for the Belles. The seventeen member team, composed of only four up­perclassmen, is now by far the lar­gest team on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Trees has six of his all-Americans returning this year, as well as last year's Moose Krause Award winner for the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's ath­lete of the year, senior captain Gail Casey, so prospects are bright. 
On Dec. I 0, Casey showed her talent against Valparaiso by winning the 50 and I00-yard breaststrokes, while being out-touched in the 100­yard individual medley. Sophomore Amy Stud.er managed to set a new varsity record against Valpo with her first place finish in the 200-yard in­dividual medley. 
Freshman Kathleen Kennedy chalked up even more points for the Belles in the meet, fmishing first in the 50-yard breaststroke. Still, Saint Mary's fell six points short, losing 73-67. 
The Belles bounced back against Albion College on Dec. 14, winning 78-57. Studer lead the team with three personal firsts -in the 100­yard backstroke, and in the 50 and IOO-yard fly, the last ofwhich was in record-breaking time. 
Casey added two more firsts, in 
the 50-yard breaststroke and IOO­
yard individual medley, while 
teammates Rosie Whalen and Ellen 
Byrne copped firsts in the 50-yard 
continuedfrompage 16 
form before the season started," he admits. The mere fact that Sluby has done so well this year -he is averaging 
16.1 points on 56-percent shooting prior to tomorrow's game with Maryland -is not all that surprising to Phelps, though. 
"When Tommy plays with that in­
tensity and aggressiveness," says 
Phelps, "there's not too many 
people who can stop him. Tommy 
knows that and it's getting him into a 
groove." 
It's games like tomorrow's when Notre Dame needs Sluby the most. The senior is expected by almost everyone, including Phelps, to take charge and produce when needed. 
"Sluby's got to come through for us,'' Phelps says. "He's got to get 20. 24 points in a big game for us. He just has to. That's our offense. We call backstroke and 100-yard freestyle, respectively. 
Freshman standout Jer:.nifer Hirschfeld took first in both the diving events, setting a new varsity record on the three-meter board. The 200-yard freestyle relay composed of Casey, Studer, Byrne, and freshman Barb Dorini also set a new varsity record to conclude a smashing meet for the women. 
Christmas break was no vacation for the Belles, as they headed south to Ft. Lauderdale for two weeks of intense training. 
"They're an amazing team, very self-motivated and always giving their best," comments Trees on his team. "We're considerably better than we were last year." 
Heading north onJan. 15, the girls splashed back into action on the 21st in a dual meet against Adrian and Calvin. Three varsity records were broken and seven first places were captured. 
Casey was a triple winner, taking the 50-yard breaststroke, 50-yard fly, and 100-yard individual medley. Studer, swimming a total of 106 laps in the meet, won the 1650-yard freestyle and the 400-yard in­dividual medley in record time, as well as the 500-yard freestyle. 
Whalen took another first in the I00-yard backstroke and freshman Michelle Mannion was the last one to break a record in the meet, win­ning the 200-yard breaststroke. 
Saint Mary's went on to defeat Adrian, II5-20, while losing to Cal­vin, 83-65. 
Tomorrow the Belles meet DePauw University for what should prove to be yet another record smashing meet. 
• • . Sluby 
plays for him, we want him with the ball, and we don't think people can 
stop him when he's in the groove. 
"He's got to become the leader in (important) situations. I've forced him to be the star, so to speak." 
Don't think Sluby doesn't realize this, either. 
"Sometimes when he wants me to get the ball I can kind of sense it," Sluby remarks. "Still, I don't go out there thinking about pressure. I just want to relax and have some fun." 
So far this season, but especially since Notre Dame's four-game road trip began on Jan. 4, Sluby has met Phelps' challenge to be the star. He has already scored 30 more points this season than he did in his entire sophomore and junior seasons combined, and needs only 56 more 
points  to  surpass  the  combined  
point  total  of his  three previous  
seasons.  

Yet, despite the way he has come on as a player this year, Sluby ha.o. no preconceptions that he can one day play in the NBA. Presently the senior in the College of Arts and Letters is planning other possible options. He has applied for a scholarship at MBA school and is taking part in some job interviews. 
"I wouldn't mind playing but I'm not sure what will happen," says Sluby. "I'm just going to sit back and wait." 
And waiting is something that Sluby has has to do a lot in his career at Notre Dame. 
TOMORROW: 
IRISH SEA 
COMES IN 


Buy any Rossignol RC 70, Elan 904 Kniessel FM, K2 344RA,OR I Olin 930, SR 15 
ld

andfor1q:you 
will receive a 
PAIR of --­
Salomon 326 ::-­
bindings. 
A lot of scoring punch will come in handy this weekend. And, as has been the case through most of the season, co-captain Brent Chapman is the leader in this department. He has accumulated 45 points on I9 goals and 26 assists. Mike Metzler is next with I 7 goals and 1 7 assists. Third in scoring is Adam Parsons, who has I3 goals and 20 assists for 33 points. 
The goaltending duties will rest with Tim Lukenda tonight. He has an immpressive 2.22 goals against average. Smith still is unsure as to who will gaurd the nets tomorrow night. 
The Observer Friday, January 27, 1984-page 12 
Irish women to face Evansville 
A.3sociated Press 


Top seed Ivan Lendl and No. 2 seed and defending champion John McEnroe scored decisive third­round victories yesterday in the 11375,000 U.S. Pro Indoor ttnnis tournament. 
Lend! served 10 aces and allowed The ()hscrver/Paul <:tfu.rclli Tim Gullikson only 18 points in a 4 3­
Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps is hoping that minute match that the Czech won 6­there's lots ofnoise as u•ell as an "Irish Sea" in the ACC tomorrow 1,6-2. afternoon when Notre Dame squares offwith Maryland. For more Wimbledon champion McEnroe on Phelps' expectations, seeMike Sullivan's column on page 16. beat 15th-seeded Scott Davis by an 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team will try to end its four­game losing streak when North Star Conference opponent Evansville visits the ACC tonight at 7:30. 
Coach Mary DiStanislao will be looking for the right combination of players to get her squad back to the level of performance that it showed briefly during the early part of the year. 
In order to get things rolling, however, the Irish must get past the Aces from Evansville. Early in the year, this game appeared to he a breather, but with Notre Dame standing at 6-10, the game has become extremely important. Tougher opponents like DePaul, 
NOTICE 

Due to construction 
:Jriginal Coney Island 
·has new hours 9am-9pm Mon.-Sat. 
25C club cards honored 2-9p.m. 
fJeliveries until8p.m. ($12 min. order) 

,.....................................................................".......................... 
NO 2nd SEMESTER STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE ALLOCATIONS 
Tuesday, January 31 is the deadline for applying for funds. A very limited supply of money is available. 
Forms are available at the Student Activities Office, 1st Floor LaFortune. 
HHI...I..IIHIIIIIIII....II...IMHIH...IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHIIIIHIMHIHIHIIHII 
PRE-CANA PROGRAMS Marriage preparation is a diocesan requirement across the country 
Pre-Cana Weekends Feb. 3-4, Mar. 2-3, Mar. 30-31 or Host Couple Program 
Inter Faith Instructions February 15 and 22 1:30 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
'Jlii r.liin9 
a Sou{ 
cJJt cflc7!c7!<7cflBe 'J 

Sign up at: Campus Ministry-Badin Office 239-5242 
which beat the Irish by 16 last week, lie just around the corner. 
The key to the game will be Notre Dame's ability to control Evansville's two excellent guards. Shelly Brand, a 5-9 junior, and Barb Dykstra, a 5-7 sophomore, average a combined 33 points a game to ac­count for a large chunk of the Evansville offense. 
Giving the guards help inside will be a front line that has only one player over 5-9.Jenny Schulz, who at 5-9 is easily the smallest center the Irish have gone up against, will try to usc her quickness to outmaneuver the taller Irish players. She will get some help from 6-0 freshman Karen Baney. 
Likewise, the Evansville forwards 
will have to try to outmaneuve 
their much taller counterparts. 
Freshmen Lisa Martin and Bobbi Jo 
Lovell, junior Denise Spear, and 
senior Marty Niehaus will fill out the 
front line. 

Besides superior size, the Irish have a big advantage being at home. The Aces, under Coach Linda Wam­bach, have not fared particularly well on the road this year, posting a 2-7 mark. On the other hand, Norre Dame has dropped two in a row at home. 
Nevertheless, DiStanislao has promised some changes and, if they p!ay well, the Irish could get back on the winning track by the time DePaul comes to the ACC on Mon­day. 
$375,000 indoor tennis tournament 
Lendl, McEnroe reach third round 
identical score in a match that took 
20 minutes longer than Lendl's. 
Third-seeded Yannick Noah and eight-seeded Eliot Teltschcr also won matches lao;t night. 
Earlier yesterday, second-year pro Brad Gilber upset ninth-seeded Johan Krcik. No.4 seedJimmy Arias, No. II seed Tomas Smid ofCzecho­slovakia and unseeded Wojtek Fibak ofPoland were also victorious. 
Gullikson, after winning the second game of the first set, lost the next five, taking only seven points in the set. 
Lendl swept.the first four games of the second set and four games later ended the contest with a service ace down the middle. 
McEnroe broke Davis' service in the opening game of the second set and then held service for a 2-0 lead. After Davis took the third game, McEnroe surged ahead to 5-1. 
Davis staved offfour match points and forced McEnroe into errors in taking the seventh game. 
r••••••••••••••• 6.50 Savings •••••--•••-. 
i ID4t1Knig}Jta oftlftC!rastlt 
1 '' II
1 minutes from campus 
I ­I --~~-Y~<t
II 
L'IOII.,_.:;,!~~~ 
I 


54531 T.,rece Lene, 
·!outlt..ltd(ACIOU freM ' Mertln'8 on S.ll. 23) 
T, W 8:30-5:30 
Th 8:30-8:30 
Fr 8:30-6:00 
s 8:30'2:30 

._Hair Cut Shampoo Blow Dry & Condition 
Reg. $15·00 

Now $8·50 with coupon 
offer only applies to male patrons 
ClosedMon 277-1691 272·0312 
-••••••••••••••6.50 Savings •••••-•••••••••-' 
lfs happening here! Right next to Ft. Lauderdale with six miles of white sandy beach, a boardwalk, lower hotel rates and great places to eat and part¥ Plus, we're the home of Six Flags Atlantis, World's 
. largest Water Theme Park! Send today for your free 

color poster of"The Rivals" and also a free copy of our hotel guide. Why not 
spend Spring Break In Hollywood for a change... lfs where rivals revel! 
Fill out the coupon below 
and mall to: 

rl~r-;~~;:~e:-,1
ofCommerce.P.O Box 23451Hollywood, Florida 33022 1 
I ~me I 
. I School Name I 
I Addres I I I
I City I 
I State/Zip I
L---------..1 
The Observer Friday, January 27, 1984-page 13 
What's up for the weekend 
TODAY 

women's basketball vs. Evansville 7:30p.m. ACC Arena 
indoor t~ack vs. Northwestern, Valparaiso, Loyola, Bradley, DePaul 6:30p.m. ACC North Dome 
SMC basketball Roundball Classic 6 p.m., 8 p.m. Angela Athletic Facility 
hockey at Iowa State 
TOMORROW 
men's basketball vs. Maryland 1 p.m. ACCArena 

SMC basketball Roundball Classic 1 p.m., 3 p.m. Angela Athletic Facility 
hockey at Iowa State 

MRYTIIIIG YOU ALWAYS WAITED 
IN ABEER.AID LESS. 
Irish track team opens a busy weekend 
ByTOM ANTONINI  The weekend's action begins this  
Sports Writer  evening with a meet at 6:30p.m. un­ 
.der the ACe's North Dome, giving  

The Notre Dame track team and ·Notre Dame track fans their first Head CoachJoe Piane open up their IJook at this year's team. This year's busiest weekend of this young ; Irish squad, which could emerge as season tonight in the ACC. The Piane's best team in his nine years at weekend will be a hectic one be-Notre Dame, will welcome teams cause Irish runners will also be ,from Ball State, DePaul, Northwes­traveling to New York's Madison :tern, Loyola, and Valparaiso. 
Square Garden and Chicago's Rosemont Horizon before Monday rolls around. 
Coming off a narrow 68-63loss at the hands of Iowa last Saturday, the Irish expect more tough competi­tion again this weekend. 
However, four Notre Dame run­ners will be in New York rather than South Bend tonight. The four will be competing in the Millrose Games at Madison Garden. 
The contingent going to New York will be runners from the two­mile relay team. Jim Moyar, a senior and a three-year letterman, leads off for the relay team. Freshman}effVan Wie and sophomore John McNelis Ifollow Moyar before another sopho­more, Mitch Van Eyken, runs the last leg. On Sunday, some other members of the Notre Dame team will travel to Chicago for the annual Goodwill Games. The Irish will enter the distance-medley relays, long jump, and high hurdles, as well as the 60­yard dash and two-mile run. Piane feels that the weekend will be as hard for the team as it sounds, beginning with tonight's meet. "Since we're running four guys in New York and resting some for Sun­day, it will be a heck of a meet (tonight)," assesses Piane. Tonight's meet is the first of two home indoor meets for Notre Dame this season and will provide a good chance to see the Irish athletes in ac­tion. 
Hoosiers defeat Wildcats 
Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -In­diana's trademark over Coach Bob Knight's 13-year reign has been a relentless man-to-man defense, but the Hoosiers used an unexpected zone defense last night and came away with a satisfying 57-44 Big Ten Conference victory over Northwes­
tern. 

"This is the first time since I've been here that we've played zone," said Knight. "We were in a diamond­and-one a lot of the time. I'd say of every five Northwestern posses­sions, we were in a zone three times and man-to-man two times." 
The Hoosier defense held Northwestern scoreless for more than six minutes late in the ~econd half. Sophomore guard Stew Robin­son, meanwhile, led Indiana's of­
fense with a career-high 17 points. 
"They were having some troubles on their end and I'd like to think that what we did defensively had some­thing to do with their problems," said Knight. "Robinson played per­haps as well as at any point all year. He was a little freer with what he was able to do." 
Northwestern coach Rich Falk said, "I· was proud of our guys, we hung tough and were in the game early. 
"We got out to a 6-0 lead and before you knew it Indiana was up 10-6. Any time you're within four or five at halftime at Indiana you have to feel real good. We took some ill­advised shots and allowed Indiana to 
get their 10 and 12-point lead." 
Falk said the Hoosiers "did a super job defensively ... We didn't do a good job of kicking the ball out to the open man. Robinson definitely
' hurt us, no question. We respect him on the drive, but he hit three or fourI, shots from the perimeter." 
The Observer Friday,)anuary 27, 1984-page 14 

The-Obsc=rvt:r/PauJ Cifart:lli 
Notre Dame's senior captain Tom Sluby bas worked bard and waited a long time to play as well as be bas oflate. He is finally playing the star role that was predicted ofhim as a freshman. To learn more about Sluby's slow climb to stardom, seejeffBlumb's story on page 16. 
continued/rom page /6 

dishing oft 62 ( 4.1 average per game). Adkins penetrates well, is a pretty good outside shooter (hitting 61 percent this year), and fits in well with the Terps' fast-breaking style. He has been chipping in an average of I 1.0 points per game and has started every game for Maryland the last two years. 
These five starters for Maryland are shooting a collective 57 percent from the field and Phelps is obvious­ly impressed with that mark. 
"Maryland is probably the best shooting team in the country," praises the Notre Dame coach. "Rebounding-wise, they're as strong as any team we've faced. We have to contain their outside shooting and do a job on the boards (in order to win)." 
One of the first players off the bench for the Terps is 6-9, 220­pound senior forward Mark Fother­gill. Fothergill is a career 53-percent shooter who has appeared in every Maryland game this year, always in a relief role. 
Others who have a good chance of playing time for the Terps tomorrow are freshmen Keith Gatlin and Terry Long, as well as Driesell's son, 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES!! 
$20,000 Scholarships: 
A Valuable Scholarship. 
A Valuable Challenge. 
The two-year NROTC Scholarship Program offers you a two-year college scholar­ship that's worth as much as $20,000 in tuition. And it offers you the challenge of becoming a Navy officer with early responsibilities and decision-making auth­ority. 
During College, the Navy pays tuition, cost of textbooks, instructional fees, and an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you are a comis­sioned Navy officer. 
THE NROTC COLLEGE PROGRAM. 
$2,000 EXPENSE MONEY AND 
A NAVY OFFICER COMMISSION. The two-year NROTC College Program offers two years of expense money that's worth up to $2,000, plus the challenge of becoming a Navy Officer with early resposibilities and decision-making auth­ority. During your last two years in college the Navy pays for uniforms, NROTC textbooks and an allow­ance of $100 a month for up to 20 months. Upon graduation and completion of requirements, you become a Navy Officer, with important decision-making responsibilities. 
If you have a C GPA or better, call us NOW as scholarship opportunities have never been better. Ask for LCDR Norrbom at 239-7274 or 239-6442, or stop by the ROTC building on the Notre Dame campus. 

Once you've finished with term papers and mid-terms. head for SPRING BREAK at the Daytona Beach Resort Area. 


Join 200.000 sun-worshipping students on our wide. smooth, sandy beach. Enjoy the fun on The World's Most Famous Beach along with concerts. parties. loads of freebies, sailing. surfing. fishing and more. Eastern. Delta. Piedmont and PBA Airlines can get you here fast. Or you can make the drive on Interstate 95. For more information. call your travel agent for free reservation service or write to us at the Daytona Beach Resort Area. 
. ~··: ·'' . ··:· 

. .. <<<f.}· .. ;r: ~',t:t,~;,~ 
Humphrey. Daytona Beach Resort Area. PO Box 2169. Daytona Beach. fL 32015 

T H E · W 0 R l D. S · M·o S T · f ft M 0 U S · ~ E ft C H 
DHT!OnH Mn<H DHT!OnH MftCH \Of\ lOllY Hill aronD Mn<H ORronD-bl· fNf ·lfH Doncf lnlff DOD! ORHnGf lOUIN DHnonH 
• • . Terps 
Chuckie, and sophomore Terry Long, who is from the same high school as Notre Dame point guard Joe Howard. 
For the Irish, tomorrow's game means another chance to beat a re­spectable team, something they haven't done too often this year, and Phelps fully realizes this fact. 
"We're playing for credibility," says Phelps. "That's what this game is for us. If we beat Mlryland, that puts us in a good pt>sition (for the NCAA Tournament). 
"This game means a lot for us team-wise," states captain Tom Sluby on the importance ofthe game with Maryland. 
The Irish have been playing well of late but their weariness from playing three games in five days clearly showed Wednesday night. against Davidson, especially in the rebounding department. The Wildcats were able to outrebound their much taller hosts. But, accord­ing to Phelps, Wednesday night's game was important in his eyes. 
"Anytime a team can play this tired and still win, that's a good sign," commented Phelps after the signs tomorrow. In fact, he is count­ingon them. 
"In my opinion, it's going to come down to the last minute," he says, "but Saturday's a Notre Dame mo­ment. We have a history of rising to the occasion when we're an under­dog." 
Whether or not this Maryland 
game will go down ill the books with 
past Notre Dame upsets of the 
UCLA's, DePaul's, and San Fran­
cisco's is a question which won't be 
answered until sometime late 
tomorrow afternoon. But even more 
than wanting to get another upset in 
the record book, the Irish would like 
to give Lefty Driesell a little birthday present tomorrow. 
IRISH ITEMS -The series he­tween these two teams is a very competitive one dating back to the 1974-75 season: The Irish have held the upper hand in recent years, win­ning three of the last four and five of the last seven, but the series is tied at five wins apiece .... Maryland is off to its best start at 13-2 since the Terps came to the ACC in the 1979­
game. j 80 season with a 14-2 record, only to He is hoping for even more good lose, 64-63, to the then 12-2 Irish. 
The Irish Gardens 
Stay on campus and save $ $ $ by letting us take care of your flower needs 
Dial M-U -M-8 (6867) liO place an order 
Located eff the lfazz in the basement of LaFortune 
Hours: 12:30-5:30 
r---------------------------------------. 
The New York Times 
Special Low Ratesfor Campus Delivery 
Special low rates for campus delivery of The New York Times are now available at 30% off the single-copy price. This discount rate of 35¢ is good only for weekday and Saturday papers. Sunday papers are available on the subscription basis also but no discount is given. Papers will be delivered on 8:00a.m. on the day of publication to dorms and faculty offices. Your paper can be guaranteed mfor the first day of delivery on January 18 only if payment is received by January 17. Delivery for orders received after January I 8 will begin within 3 days and refunds will be granted in case of overpayment. Please mail the bottom portion of this slip to: 

George Devenny 145 Stanford Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 
1

~--------------------------------------­
I 
I

1 Dear Mr. Devenny: I Count me in for The New York Times! I will Subscribe: I Spring Term (ends May 6) 
Monday-Friday ................. $24.85 Monday-Saturday ............... $29.40 Monday-Sunday ................ $61.90 Sunday only ................... $32.50 
Rates do not include receiving paper on holidays or during exam week. Enclosed is my check payable to George Devenny in the amount of$ Name 
Address 
Phone 

' ' . ... ... ' -~ -.. -.. . . .. ' .
"

---~~~-~~--~--------------------------· 
~c:tcJlcat~---------------------------------IT-hl_~_,_Jw_u_ruy 2_7_,1_9_8_4=-p-~-e-1_5__ 
Bloom County 
Mellish 
TAI:ING CATI/Y FRON ~ Y 
PHYSICS Cl!ISS OUT TONIGHT, tlOW DO I LOOK I 
Guindon 


"Let Reagan be Reagan. Let Asner be Asner, and let Fenster be Fenster." 

I!OW' CAN I 7 5/IEs A GOI>DESS ... SHf OWNS A PROGRIIMII<Ait[ tALt~ LATOI/. SHE 5u8~UI16ES TO TH£ 111T WEE~LV SCifNTIFit REVIE~. 5#f~ EVERYTHING I UEI!. ii/Af<Tf~ IN A lSI/I~.  IS THAr A 61FT vou'vE  
Richa.ni Guindon  

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 31 Dock 59 Dash off 3 Caravansary 1 Excursion 33 Litigants 60 Great name 4 Columnist 5 Fairy queen 34 Frosty insym· Westbrook 8 Nlceguy 38 Della's phonies 5 Porcelain 
12 Frontiers· creator 62 Tapered vase 
man 39 Friend: Fr. peak 6 Donizetti 13 Anger 40 Shout at 64 A Thompson tune 14 Oriental sea 65 Cunning 7 Chard 16 On the way 41 Am. and-66 City on the relative 17 Glorifier Leagues Rhone 8 Garden 
of Superman 42 Sea command 67 Colors belvedere 19 Relative, 44 Broadway 68 Zodiac 9 Big curve 
for short Tommy sign 10 Barely 20 Heir 45 G'eneril to 69 Rolling touches 22 Ring president plain 11 Western results In 1953 resort 23 Rubyof 48 Short race DOWN 12 Take the 
films 51 Fr. philos· 1 "But it's sun, e.g. 25 Lowers opher nicer-in 27 General to 54 Bravo! bed" 15 Chicago
president 55 Bishop's 2 NRApresi· crime· in 1953 staff dent fighter 
&rke Breathed 

Dave&Dave 

OH, JUST A 11 TTLE ITS TilE LEA"' TOI(EN. ITS AN I CAN DO. fR!frvMfi!R FlASK· 
The Far Side Garylarson 

18 Small ducks -43 Small shark 21 Cupid 
46 Moves24 Siren of slowly·the Rhine 47 European26 Pilots capital28 Silken 48 Cries29 Macho type 49 Supplicate30 Celts 50 Thin and 31 Confine piping32 George's 52 Broadcastlyricist 53 Peggy and 35 Authorof Michele"While 56 RacetrackEngland 57 VerydrySlept" 

58"-the
36 Long long valley of. .." period 61 Ligature37 Tincture 63 For42 Houstonian 

Thursday's Solution 
Campus · 
•4 
p.m. -Spanish Club Meeting, La Fortune 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Henry James: An Overview and Analysis," Prof. Richard A. Hocks, Stapleton Lounge 

•6 
p.m. -Indoor Track, Loyola, Bradley, DePaul, Valparaiso, and Northwestern, ACC 

•7 
and 9 p.m. -Film, "Fail Safe," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Ground Zero, Free 

•7 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "Sophie's Choice," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, 1!1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Presentation/ Reception, Leo Burnett-Media Division, Alumni Room Morris Inn, for all BBA Seniors and MBA's, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 

•7:30 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Women vs Evansville, ACC 

•7:30 
and 9:40p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "Coup de Torchon," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -Graduate Student Union, "Back to Classes Party," Wilson Commons, S1 

•8 
p.m. -Roundball Classic, U of Michigan­Dearborn vs Purdue, and St. Xavier College vs SMC, Angela Athletic Facility 

•8 
p.m. -Examination, Graduate Management Admission Test, Engineering Auditorium 

Saturday,Jan. 28 


•1 
p.m. -Basketball, NO Men vs. Maryland, ACC 

•1 
p.m. -SMC Roundball, Consolation Game, Angela Athletic Facility 

•3 
p.m. -SMC Roundball, Championship Game, Angela Athletic Facility 

•4 
p.m. -Gaming Club Organizational Meeting, 204 O'Shaughnessy, $5 membe£ship fee 

•7, 
9:15 and 11:30 p.m. -Film, "The Birds," 


Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Film Club, ·. :1!1 Sunday,Jan. 29 
•1 
p.m. -Opening Art Exhibition, "Cuts -An Exhibition of Woodcut and Relief Prints," O'Shaughnessy Galleries 

•4 
p.m. -Concert, University Artist Series, Chicago Ensemble, Annenberg Auditorium, Free to ND/SMC students, General admission $2 

•6 
p.m. -Dance Class, jazz Spring Semester Ses­sion, Holy Cross Hall Party Room, NO, Sponsored by Abiogenesis Dance Collective, $10 

•7 
p.m. -Urban Plunge Follow-up Meeting, Library Lounge 

•7 
p.m. -Dance Rehearsal, Holy Cross Hall Party Room, ND, Abiogenesis Dance Collective 

•11:30 
p.m. -OC Hockey Practice, ACC Ice Rink, $5 


©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 1/27/84 
BEER SPECIAL 

Undergrad Night Sat. Night Feb. 11 Import Night 

Phelps looks to give Driesell a birthday gift as Irish face Terps 
ByJEFF BLUMB Carolina on Jan. 12 gives him the Assistant Sports Editor two highest individual perfor­mances for Maryland this season. 
Notrt: Dame coach Digger Phelps Bias is presently averaging 14.5 thinks that tomorrow should be points on 58-percent shooting after Lefty Driesell's birthday. Actually, becoming a full-time starter this Phelps doesn't care if it is or not -it year. He averages 31 minutes of isn't. What he really wants is for his playing time each game, tying him team to blow out the candles on with Ben Coleman for the team lead. fifth-ranked Maryland's cake when Yet, Notre Dame should show no his Irish meet Driesell's Terps "bias" in defensing the well­tomorrow aftl·moon ( 1 p.m., NBC-balanced Maryland attack. There TV) under the south dome of the will be no slouches out on the court ACC. for the Terps tomorrow. 
"Everyone ought to come out "You're going to see a pretty good Saturday around 12:30 and sing basketball team," says Phelps of the 'Happy Birthday' to Lefty," says the Terps. "Maryland is one of the teams Irish coach. "It may not be his I personally feel can get to the Final birthday but he only gets here every Four, simply because nobody ex­other year so we m ight as well take pects them to. They have the same care ofall of this year for him." dimension as an N.C. State last year." 
But as the son of an undertak~r. One of the Terps who will have a Phelps knows well that his proposed lor to say as to whether Maryland party for Driesell could easily can get as far in the NCAA Tourna­hecome an Irish wake. Maryland is a ment as Phelps predicts is center veteran team whose great shooting Ben Coleman. Known as "Lefty's and rehounding will he the death Horse," Coleman is averaging 14.1 knell for Notre Dame tomorrow if points a game so far this season to go the Irish don't hold the Terps in along with his team leading average check. ofH.l rebounds. 
Sophomore forward Len Bias, a The 6-9, 220-pound Coleman also starter in 21 consecutive games, has leads Maryland in blocked shots and been Maryland's hottest player of steals with 19 and 12, respectively, late, making 10 of 12 attempts from this year. Coleman's 19 points last the field in scoring 24 points against 1 year at College Park was a major fac­Old Dominion last Saturday. Bias' Itor in the Terps' 68-67 win over the 24-point performance a ainst North . Irish. 
At the forward spot opposite Bias is 6-6 senior Herman Veal. He con­tributes 9.3 points a game and is the second-leading rebounder behind Coleman, pulling down an average of7.5 rebounds. 
"Veal is a very good shooter form the corner," assesses Phelps. 
He also can play some defense and was voted the Terps' "Best Defensive Player" last year, Veal serves as a co-captain along with Coleman. 
An old Notre Dame nemesis is 6-8 junior Adrian Branch, who will like­ly be at the off-guard spot for the Terps tomorrow. Branch has scored 16 and H! points in the two years he has played against the Irish. Ranked 14th on Maryland's all-time scoring list, he is also an excellent ball hand­ler who is a bonafide all-America candidate. 
A fine player throughout his career at Maryland, Branch was voted the Terps MVP as a freshman and shared the same award with Coleman last year. Branch presently averages 12.6 points and 3.6 rebounds. 
Assist leader Jeff Adkins is 
Maryland's point guard. The 6-5 
junior led the team in assists last year 
with 121 and is well on his way to a 
similiar mark this season, presently 
see TERPS, page 14 
An ND moment? 
Well, here it is, the day before the basketball team takes on fifth-ranked Maryland and nobody is really get­ting too worked up about it. 
Despite the fact that the Irish are 12-5, working on Mike Su II ivan their longl'St winning streak (five) in three years, and-----------------­
playing their hest basketball since the days ofTripucka, Sports Editor 
Woolridge and jackson, you won't hear a great deal ofiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~=====iiil 
talk about the game on campus tonight like you would 
before a football game. 

While this is a little disappointing, it really isn't all 
that surprising. First ofall, the basketball team's perfor­
mance doesn't mean as much to the students as the foot­
ball team's does. Notre Dame football tradition goes 
hack to the early part ofthe century, while Notre Dame 
basketball tradition really didn't begin until the days of 
Austin Carr in the late '60's. 

The fact is that there is nothing, and probably never 
will be anything, like a Notre Dame home football game. 
Football games are social events. On the other hand, 
basketball fans are at the ACC to watch a basketball game. 
Also, two mediocre, if not poor years have robbed the student body of its enthusiasm for basketball. Ex­pensive tickets and exciting opponents like the En­gineers of Lehigh have been small deterrents, but, in general, the students, long spoiled by very successful teams, have turned their attention away from the ath­leti<: scene. 
It is being unfair to say that everyone has been af­fected negatively. There is still a fairly strong core of students who attend games regularly. Ifit wasn't for this group, the ACC would be a morgue during the games. Its behavior exemplifies Notre Dame spirit and originality at its best. However, the general student sup­port for the team is so weak that the pep rally that had been scheduled for tonight was canceled. 
This lack ofenthusiasm could prove dangerous in the long run. The basketball team needs the student sup­port more than any other team at Notre Dame. Except for the football program, no other sport is expected to draw large, paying crowds. And football will always be able to get rid ofas many tickets as it needs to. 
If people cannot get excited about these next two weeks of basketball, they won't be able to get excited about basketball at all. The fifth-ranked and second­ranked teams in the nation will both be here on national television. Winning either one ofthose games would be an immense help in getting the Irish into the NCAA Tournament. Notre Dame Is now on a two-game televi­sion roll (Liberty Bowl and Villanova) and it is impor­tant to keep this streak going. 
This is also the chance for the Notre Dame students to win back the reputation for being the "sixth man." Back in 1977, the student body was voted the game's MVP by NBC Sports in Notre Dame's upset of No. 1 San Francisco. Ifthis could happen again (the team has to do 
tts part, too), people around the country would realize 
that Notre Dame students haven't given up on their 
teams just because they are losing. 
The nice thing is that both Maryland and DePaul are 
talented teams who are very capable ofchoking in the 
clutch. Not that Notre Dame is the greatest clutch team, 
but the Irish won't have people distracting them at the 
foul line and students yelling at them in tight situations. 
Two years ago, when Maryland came to the ACC to 
face a Notre Dame team that would end up I 0-l 7, the 
Terps lost their composure and the game. The Notre 
Dame-Maryland rivalry almost always guarantees a very 
close game and, historically, the team that wasn't 
supposed to win, did. Maryland, like Notre Dame. has a 
habit of playing down to its opponent's level, but the 
Irish can also play up to the level of their competition. 
So it should be a close game. 
Likewise, DePaul could bring out the best in the Irish 
in Ray Meyer's last appearance as DePaul coach. 
The crowd can play a very important role in the next couple of weeks. And, in basketball, more than in any other sport, the crowd can help out the home team. The fans sit right next to the court and right behind the bench. Arenas like the ACC keep the noise loud and continuous. 
Digger Phelps knows this very well and likes to come up with new ideas to get an extra edge from the fans. Just this year, he has suggested that the students get up at halftime and move behind the opposite basket to make the opponent shoot into the student section for both halves. It was a good idea, but the townies who sit in those seats were not about to switch to the other 
side. 

His latest idea he actually borrowed from Washing­ton fans. It was called The Wave out there, but Digger wants to create "The Irish Sea." Ifyou haven't ever seen The Wave in action, it involves the various sections standing up and sitting down in order. The motion gives a wave effect through the stands. People in Washington love The Wave, but it's hard to see South Benders doing anything but sit on their hands. 
It might appear that Digger is spending too much time worrying about the fans, but he has called the Maryland game, "a typical Notre Dame moment." 
In the past, that has usually meant a Notre Dame up­set. It's been a while, but maybe we can get lightning to strike again. 

The Ohserver/File Photo 
Maryland's Adrian Branch, shown here against UClA's Kenny Fields, is just one offive bigguns thatNotre Dame will have to stop tomorrow as the Irish face the Terps. For more on the game, see the related stories on this page. 
Sluby's the star now but it's been long wait 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
AssistantSports Editor 
Right now he's the star, the one who the Notre Dame basketball team looks to when it really needs a basket. But it hasn't always been that way for Irish captain Tom Sluby. 
After appearing in 27 of 29 games off the bench as a freshman, during which time he averaged 3.2 points, Sluby opened his sophomore cam­paign as a starter at the small forward spot, averaging 7.8 points a game. That role lasted only 11 games, however, because he became academically ineligible at the end of the first semester. 
Sluby was once again in a relief role when he returned to action the following season. Astress fracture of an ankle hobbled him throughout the month of December, however, holding him back and forcing the swingman to struggle to get back to a position where he could make a serious contribution to the team duringthe second halfofthe season. 
Then came the North Carolina 
State game. Sluby came offthe bench 
to go five-for-five from the floor in 
that game, contributing 11 points in 
Notre Dame's narrow 43-42 win 
over the eventual NCAA champion 
Wolfpack. 

That game was the springboard for Sluby, as he went on to start the final eight games of the year for the Irish at the off guard spot, hitting double figures in six of those games. Still,' Irish coach Digger Phelps was not sure who would be his captain the next season and delayed naming one at season's end. 
But, by the end of May, there wasn't any question in Phelps' mind that Sluby would be his captain for this year. His performance during Notre Dame's summer trip to Yugos­lavia left little doubt that he was the man for the job. 
Sluby came off the bench to con­
tribute 22 and 18 points as Notre 
Dame went on to win the Zadar Cup. 
In doing so, he was selected as the 
outstanding young player in Zadar 
Cup play. 

For the native of Washington, D.C., a city that has produced such other Notre Dame greats as Austin Carr, Sid Catlett, Collis Jones, Bob Whitmore, Adrian Dantley, and Tracy Jackson, the Yugoslavia trip was a most valuable experience. 
"I went over there wanting to get more playing experience and to work on some basic things like defense, rebounding, and shooting," reflects Sluby. "I was loose and playing well." 
Yet, probably the most important 
thing the senior swingman gained 
from the trip is something that is 
hard to measure with stars. 
"I came out with more self­confidence and gained the con­fidence ofother people," Sluby says. 
Still, his good play in Yugoslavia and his new position as captain was no guarantee that things would go well for Sluby this season, and he knew it. 
"I didn't set any goals because I didn't really know how much playing time I'd get or how I'd per-
see SLUBY, page 11 


