Camelot-page 10 

VOL XVIII, NO. 133 the independent student newspaper st·rving notre Jamt· and saint mary· ... FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1984 

Roemer disagrees with Committee on party directive 
By SARAH HAMILTON 
News Editor 
No member of the alcohol com­mittee agrees with Dean ofStudents James Roemer's propo.sed directive concerning the limiting ofthe size of private parties, according to com­mittee member Mike Carlin. 
"No one feels that should be the rule. It should be subjective, up to the rector," said Carlin. 
Committee Chairman Father Wil­liam Beauchamp would not com­ment on what was discussed at yesterday's meeting of the Commit­tee on the Responsible Use of Al­cohol. 
The meeting "was basically designed to get some reactions to it (the directives)," said Beauchamp. 
"We simply reviewed his proposed directives and measured them against the policy and made some recommendations," explained Sister John Miriam Jones, a member of the committee. 
'There will be discussion between Roemerand the committee and the directive will come out ofthat. '-Fr. Beauchamp 
The Committee had planned to meet at least once after issuing its report. 
Carlin said Beauchamp called yes­terday's meeting because of the "controversy" surrounding the policy and directives. Jones said, "I think there's a huge confusion" about the two documents; some people seem to think that the directives are part of the commit­tee's report. 
Beauchamp explained that the committee made recommendations for an alcohol policy in its report. The directives deal with the im­plementation of that policy. 
Referring to the committee. Beauchamp said "We're not really involved with the implementation." 

"The committc:;;e has the power to approve the recommendations of Roemer, or disapprove them," claimed Brian Callaghan, another committee member. Callaghan said that Provost Timothy O'Meara gave them the power to take care of all alcohol-related matters. 
O'Meara denies granting the com­mittee such authority,"! never gave them that power. There's been an understanding that Roemer would go back to the committee with directives before anything was an­nounced. There will be discussion between Roemer and the commit­tee and the directives will come out of that." He does not see this 
happening in the immediate future, "not tomorrow or the next day ...fairly soon." 
Carlin said Roemer makes the final decision concerning the directives, but that "he's probably going to go with what the commit­tee says." 

'I' esterday's meeting was scheduled because of the con­troversy that was raised, especially with the release of the directives without the prior knowledge of the committee, according ro Carlin. The committee is upset with the situa­tion, Carlin said, because it appears that the report and directives came from the same source. It is an in­
stance of "bad timing;" the commit­

tee would  rather have  seen  the  
directives  before  they  were  
released.  

Beauchamp said that he had seen the directives but admitted that the committee as a whole had neither seen nor discussed them. O'Meara stated, "I would say it would have been better if there had been more discussion before something came out that appeared final." 
Beauchamp eoncluded that a lot of emphasis has been placed on the directives which are not final, in­stead of upon the report which is final and has been approved. 


Science departments receive grants for research, equipment funding 
Hey, this isn't too bad 
Notre Dame sophomore Ann Nagel samples some of the pie that was thrown in her face yesterday during the An Tostal picnic at Saint Mary's. Ann's only crime was not having a quarter bandy when she was picked 
By MARYJACOBY 
StaffReporter 
Notre Dame received 5569,145 in grants during March for research, equipment, service programs, and other projects. 
Several areas ofscience will share 
5397,242; !26,000 was awarded for 

SMC Dean supports alcohol policy 
By ANNE MONAS1YRSK.I 
Saini Mary's Editor 
Notre Dame's alcohol policy is not "too strict considering the situa­tion," said Saint Mary's Dean of Stu­dent Affairs Karol Jackowski in response to the recommmendations made by the University Committee on the Responsible Use ofAlcohol. 
Jackowski called it a "mammoth undertaking'" to try to reverse policy hut. she added, there was "no al­ternative but to tighten (the policy). Anything short ofthis would get this reaction." 
Prior to 1976 no drinking was allowed on Saint Mary's campus. That year, the College decided to make alcohol policy consistent with state law and began the Alcohol Education Program at the same time to promote "responsible drinking." 
Alcohol is allowed in dorm rooms if the student is at least 21 years ofage. 
"Once again we're (Saint Mary's) the pacesetters," said Jackowski rcfering to the similarity between the alcohol policies. 
Jackowski and Director of Residence Life Pat Rissmeyer met with the committee in the early stages to discuss the problem and its effect at Saint Mary's. The situation is "complex" and involves changing social behavior which society condones. "It's hard to reverse a trend," she said. 
Jackowski plans to meet with stu­dent government and residence ad­visors to find out what they perceive the effects of the policy change will be at Saint Mary's. Whether or not there will be a reverse exodus of Notre Dame students coming to the College, Jackowski could not say at this time, but she judged that there will be a "definite effect on both (campuses)." 
She "encourages the students to talk about it" with their R.A.'s, since they have a "sensitivity to social life," so the College can "anticipate as much as we can." Ifany problems arise because of the policy change Jackowski said the administration will have to "deal with it when the time comes." 
"Liability is a big part" of the policy at Notre Dame. Jackowski called the policy change "necessary" and said it was "probably just a matter of time" before the change occured. Because of their prominence, Jackowski believes that not enforcing the new 
see DEAN, page 5 
The (lhsc:rvcr/l.c.:v (.hapc:lsk~ 

to be thrown injail. But as a amsolation for all those similar~y attackC'd, all jail mon~y will go to cbari~y. The picnic, on the library green, was followed by games and the Mr. Campus amtest in Angela Athletic Facility where Mr. Zahm won. 
mathematical research, the humanities received S1,439. and various projects and programs amounted to Sl44,438. 
The largest single award is a S I 26,028 grant from the National Institutes of Health for x-ray and chemical studies of metallopor­phyrins by Dr. Walter Scheidt, professor of chemistry. Professor 
Scheidt was not available for im­mediate comment. 
A joint award of $52,325 was made by the NIH to Professor Manju Basu, assistant faculty fellow in chemistry, and Professor Subhash Basu, professor ofchemistry, for the study ofIi-glycolipid biosynthesis in lymphomas. Lipids are a principal structural component of cells, and lymphomas are malignant tumors made oflymphoid tissue. 
Basu's research is cancer related. As people get older, their bodies produce antibodies against their own tissue and cell products. Cell products like Ii (glycolipid) an­tigens are found in covered in nor­mal tissue, but in cann·rous cells the surface is exposed. 
Presently, scientists do not under­stand its structure and biosynthesis. These antigens, substances that stimulate the production of an­tibodies, are active in cancerous cells. If the properties of li antigens can be better understood, the knowledge will advance cancer research. 
A more recent grant of $89,700 was also awarded to Basu by the NIH for a project titled "Glycolipid 
see GRANT, page 6 



Rally set for 4:30 
A rally in protest of the new alcohol policy will be held this afternoon at 4:30 in front ofthe Administration Building. 
Speakers will include Student Body President Rob Bertino. Student Body Vice President Cathy David, Hall President's Council Chairman Chris Tayback, former Student Body Presi­dent Brian Callaghan, former Student Senator Dave McAvoy, and Mock Convention Chairman Tom O'Leary. 
Any damage to University property which occurs as a result of the rally will be charged to student government, Bertino said. 
The Observer Friday, April 27, 1984 -page 2 


In Brief 
. ·­
The 1984 Army ROTC Spring Awards Ceremony 
wa~ hdd yesterday in the Library Auditorium. and Cadet Scott Hobar assumed his 11rst duty as 19H4-HS Cadet Battalion Commander by presiding over the event. Most notable of the awards were the Bat­talion Commander's Saber given to senior Mike Sees, the Deputy Commander's Award given to senior Davc Speach. and Superior Cadet Awards given to senior Jim Dever, junior Eric Fredrickson, ~ophomore Kevin Browne, and freshman Pat Doyle. The Spring Awards Cerenwny represents the end of Army ROTC events for the year and signifies a cadet ehangl· of command as junior cadets assume the eadet officer positions previously held by graduating 
seniors. -The Observer 
A Faculty Course Evaluation is bdng or­
ganized and exeeuted by a student government committee chaired by Bob Reilly. Faeulty Course Evaluation forms have been mailed to all students and should be returned through campus mail as soon as possibk. The results will bl-published in the fall for student use in the course seketion proeess. -The Obsen,er 
Of Interest 
The Beta Alpha Psi fraternity of accounting 
will tl-aturl· Dr. Robert T. Sprouse, vice chairman of the rukmaking hnandal Accounting Standards Board of Stamti1rd. Conn., as the speaker at thl'ir awards banquet tonight. Twenty-one seniors and juniors will he honornl during the l'Vent bl·ginning at 6 p.m. in the Monogram Room of the Athletic and Convocation Center. -The ( Jhsen•er 
"Criticism Without Boundaries: Directions 
and< :ross Currents in Post modern Critical Theory," a conferenee of ninl· prominent literary and critieal theorists continues tomorrow at I 0 a.m. in the Memoriall.ibrary Lounge. At this session Cornel West of thl· !Inion Thl·ological Seminary will speak on "The Historieal Turn in Philosophy." Following this Paul Bove of the t:niversity of Pittsburgh will kcture on "The Failure of Thcory: The Absence of Change in Literary llistory." The "Criticism Without Boundaries" conference is sponsored by the English Department as one of its Ward-Phillips ln:tun: series. -The OIJsen•er 
Economics Associate Professor Frank 
Bonello, has been named 19H4 recipknt of the Rev. Charles Sheedy Award. The honor, which includes a S I ,000 cash prize, is given an­nually to a faculty member in the College of Arts and Letters for exeelknce in teaching. The Sheedy Award, an anonymous benefac­tion, is naml·d for a lloly Cross priest who served as dean of the College ofArts and Letters. The recipient is honored by the advisory council of the college at a fall meeting. -The Obsen,er 
Financial liability for damages ineurred at 
this Friday's student rally will he assumed by the Notre Dame Stu­dl'nt <ioVl'rnmt·nt. The rally will take place on the Administration Building steps at 4::W p.m. This arrangemcnt was diseusscd and finalized with Dean ofStudentsJames Roemer yl'sterday. -The Ob­
sert'er 

Weather 
Wet and wann weather this Wl'l'kl'nd. Partly sunny, brel'ZY and very warm .oday with a .~0 pl·rtTnt d1a1Kl' of aftl'rnoon ~hundcrshowers and a high in mid HOs. A SO pl·rcent chanlT ofthunderstorms tonight, low 
n tlw 60s. Thunderstorms are likely tomor­r<lW and cooler, with a high in mid 70s. -AP 

The Observer 
The Ohscrver ( l 'SI'S '\<1'1 !-1000) '' puhli~hc:d \lomJa~· throu~ll 1:nda~ and on home.: focHhall 'aturda)'!'t. c.·xn:pt dunng c.·x;:Hll .uuJ \'al'atlon pc.:riod" Tht• Oh~ervt.·r I!'! puhli.otht.·d h\ tht.· 'llHknh ol lht.· t 'nin·r'il~ ol \;ntrt· l>ounc and ~.11m \l,1n ·... <ollq,(t.' ~uh...cnptltHl-' mot~ l_lt pun hol~nl for s.zc; pc:r yc:.tr (!I~ pu ..,unt.·..,tt.·r) h\' \\rillIlK l'he Obsen-er, P ( l Box<). Notrt.· l>anll·. lnd1J11o1 t(l';.c;ll, 
l'hc Ohsen-er 1~ .t mt.·mht.·rc,l Tht· As· ~)<.'iatt·d Prt.·ss. All rt.·prodw.:tion right.., 
,lfl' fl''l'l\'t.'d 
/Jes/~11 /;'e/itor ........ Thomas Rohcrt Small 
/)(•sign Assistant .......... .\1aurl·t:n Murphy 
TJ'jJl'Setlers .......... . . ...... \'it: Sciulli 
Carol Gall's 
.\1h.:ht_·llt.: Fanto 
\'('II'S Ftl/tor.. . ............ Tl·rt_·sa Guarino 
C.o/Jr l.tlilor. .Ed 1\.onrady and Jam: Krav· 
dk 
'•fnii'/S l ''Pl' Edilor..... . .......Jeff Blurnh 
lJt'Jl',-mint /.a)•nu(h)l' .\1urphy and David 
(,rotc Fecllto·es ( of~1' J:'dilor . .. .... ,\1ary I kaly l·i.·aturt's I t~)'uut . .... \1;JrY I kolly and .\tar­
g:lrt.·t Me< :aiK \'/) IJay l."dilor.... . Barbara Slt:\'t.·n~ :ld /Jt•sign .. . Bob Slota 
It.'\' ( .hapt.·bk~ 



Covering the alcohol policy 


When issues blow up in the face ofnewspapers, there are always those who say the newspapers eauscd the whole blast in the first place. Sadly, the claim is sometimes true. In the ease of The Observer and the 
editorial pagl' from what goes on the front page. Mixing the two is dangerous -even fatal -for newspapers that value their objectivity. 
The alcohol policy and the subsequl'nt protests have provided great fuel for Observer news editors and view­point editors. The question thus beeomes: Has this nl'wspaper blown the alcohol issue out ofproportion? I think not. 
The 28-page report issued last week represents the University's most important decision on student life since Notre Dame became a school for women too. Given the world of instant analysis in which daily newspapers exist, The Observer editors realize the ur­
Bob Vonderheide 
Editor-in-Chief 

aleohol report, The Observer pleads innocent. 
Inside Friday 

Every newspaper must scket what goes on the the committee's rceommcndations was published ver­batim. Why was the entire policy not printed? When all the rhetoric is wiped away, the news of the poliey arc the recommendations themselves. The Observer eould not afford to run the entire document, whieh would require two blank pages without advertising. Today, the alcohol policy is published as paid advertising by the University. _ 
Writing house editorials. The Observer editorial board feels strongly that the aleohol poliey is a major 

gent nl'ed to keep objec­mistake, and it defends the 
tivity on the front burner, protests as appropriate especially on such volatile means t<~r students to voice and cmotional issues as the their displeasurl'. Three 
aleohol report. editorials speaking for the Consider, for example, a newspaper have addressed few recent decisions by thl' that point. But The Ob­
editorial board: sen•er's opmwn has ap­Publishing a special peared no where else. The edition. A speeial four-page paper has not helped or­l'dition was published last ganize any protest. and not 
Thursday, a day after The pressed for student par­Observer's last regular issue tieipation in the rallies. The before Easter. Was there 
Ohseruer's inllul'nec eomes grounds for this decision? Of through the writtl'n word, coursl'; this was big news -and !he editorial board the kind that already had our defends and treasures this phones ringing with repor­right as a newspaper. ters from national news or­ganizations asking about the Tbe Obsen,er has covered raid on the Ad building. 

The Observer is not in business to decide whether a ecrtain news item makes students or administrators look good or had. The Obsen,er is a newspaper. And objectively, no matter which side you ehoosc, 2,000 sereaming students jumping up and down in a univer­sity's administration building is news that warrants spe­eial coverage. 
Running banner headlines. The largest headline in Observer history, "The party is over," topped the front page artielc announeing the new aleohol restric­tions. Another banner headline led the four-page spe­cial edition. Is this objectivity? Unfortunately, it seems Rupert Murdoch has given large headlines a bad name. Headlines are designed to attract reader attention, and eonvey accurately the tone of the story. Big news deserves -demands -big headlines. Th<: alcohol poliey is big news; The Observer used big headlines. 
Printing the alcohol policy. The day The Observer announced the aleohol policy, the section dealing with 
the aleohol iss11e fairly and objectively. If anything, however, the eoveragl' has just begun. The last six issues of the paper this year and the editions next semester will eontinue to explore ques­tions raised by the poliey. Studcnts will always be able to turn to The Observer for accurate information. 
The Observer publishes its official opinion in the form of an unsigned, large-print, wide­column article on the Viewpoint page. These columns represent the opinion of a majority of The Observer editorial board. All other columns, on the Viewpoint page or other­wise, are the views oftheir authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the editorial board or The Observer staff. 


J~n Tostal 
Today's Events 

"Triple Sec"-playing from 12-1 at Fr. Sorin. 
South Quad Garraes: 
-Keg Toss, Mattress Races, Bucket Brigade, Tire Rolling ... Campus Loudmouth 
• SERF AUCTION, DATING GAME *Rally at AD Building (4:30) 
Trivia Bowl and Impersonation Contest 

: REC~~~~th;:~~;~:.Picnlc •••• 
*Midnight Movie· "POLYESTER" 
-come smell it!!! 
Looking For Big Brother; Clue no. 4 
There is a place on the first floor To find it simply slide out thH drawer Big Brother and Little Sister have today Left a calling card to find the way 
Only if you have found Big BrothE~r. ca/11739 and ask for Paul or Mark 
Saturday 

• PICNIC at Stepan: Trivia Bowl and Impersonations *MUD PITS· Chariot Race!s, Miss Mud, Tug-0-War ... 
*BOOKSTORE SEMIFINALS 

··.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.··· ···.··.·.·.·.·...... . 
. ..·.·-:.·.:.·.·.:··· .. ' 
--~~ ~ 
The Observer 

President and Mrs. Reagan wave goodbye as they a layover in Guam. See the Associated Press story• at board Air Force One at Hickam Air Force Base in right for details ofhisfirst day in Peking. Hawaii, before continuing on their trip to China, with 
Friday, April 27, 1984 -page 3 



Reagans tell Chinese of capitalism benefits 
Associated Press richest in natural resources. No, it is 
where people have b<.Tn allowed to 

PEKING President create, compete, and build. where Reagan lectured the Chinese nation they have been permitted to think today on the benefits of capitalism for themselves, to make economic and encouraged its communist decisions. and benefit from their leaders to move forward with their own wits that society has become tentative economic liberalization. the most prospnous. progressive. 
At the same time, he used his first dynamic, and free. speech here to sharply cFiticize the "Nothing could be more basic to Soviet Union, saying "America and the spirit of progress for a farmer. China both condemn military ex-laborer, or merchant than economic pansionism -the brutal occupation reward for legitimate risk and of Afghanistan and the crushing of honest toil," the conservative Kampuchea (Cambodia)." American president told the world's 
In remarks prepared for an after-most populous nation and its com­
noon spsech and later scheduled for munist leadership. 
broadcast on Chinese national The speech followed a morning 
television before a video meeting with Premier Zhao Ziyang 
audience that White House officials on Reagan's second day in China. 
estimated could reach 200 million Referring to the move toward a 
-Reagan said that it was the profit consumer-oriented economy and 
motive that spurred America's the relaxing ofofficial opposition to 
development. private enterprise that has emerged 
Speaking in the Great Hall of the over the past five years or so. Reagan People to an audience of 500 to 600 said: Chinese business leaders and ex-"Today, China's economy perts in ll.S.-Sino relations, the presi-crackles with the dynamics of dent said: change, expansion of individual in­
"The societies that have made the centives for farmers ...new 
most spectacular progress in the bonuses for workers, more dis­
shortest period of time are not the ciplin~:d management in terms of 
most rigidly organized nor even the profits and losses. 
0 715 North Ave. 0 One Dutch Hill Rd.
Return to: 
New Rochelle Orangeburg 

New York 10801 New York 10962 
:91-1) 636-2100 ext. 592 ;914\ 159-2252 

;~tc·m;rec;: .,n me fcllowinq >roclrams·


IOWA 

"As China moves forward on this new. path, America welcomes the opportunity to walk by your side." he said. 
The speech contained many stan­dard phrases from a Reagan political address, touting rlw successes he claims for the ll.S. economy for the past three years. 
In this speech, Reagan said the l :.s. military buildup over which he has presided helped the nation to fulfill its responsihilty for world peace. 
"But we threaten no nation. America's troops are nor mass~:d on China's borders, and we occupy no land," he said, in a reference to the Soviet l:nion. 
0TAE....-.·-: 
. rJ;··:~~m--.
•. I~lN ~·1_. ,J: ·'~· ~ 
~£f.OOTBAll.. ll!~'
=--iiiOiiiiii··-PURDUE 
September • ,, '84 Hoosier fl' ~ o\)t..,,anopolis 
14l""'~r person 
.___MICHIGAN STATE=-­
September 1S. 1984 East Lansing. Michigan 14800 ·per person 
(r._WNOI.......,...,. ot(epl.,..., pllnr to 1/1/841 
-==-......-MISSOURI~-­
September 28-30. 1984 Columbia, Missouri 1199"" per person • 
=LOUISIANA STATE== UNIVERSilV & World's Fair October 23-28. 1984 New Orleans ond Baton Aou9e 
172000 per person • --......-;LOUISIANA STATE =­UNIVEASITV 
October 26-28. 1984 New Orteons ond Baton Rouge '47 200 per person • 
------=-NAvv-~------­
November 2-4. 1984 Giants Stadium. New Jersey Weekend in New '>brl< City 
1399"" per person • =--UNIVERSITY OF =----"­SOUTHERN CAliFORNIA 
November 23-28. 1984 Los Angele<. Coliforruo ond inc1uding 4 d¥ in los Vegas 
(No Home TeleviSIOn) 1669"" per person • ease confirm reservations fof· Notlli'Oorrte-Pu«t.tc 0"*"1el>ome.-lSU(6do,.rsl
~0 Notu1 Oorne..f'u<O...... 0 Notrll!i Don-e lSU (3 ~) 
(bus onlv) 0 ~re Dome Ncr.ov bNotrr:Oome MI~'SI 0*"''~-lJSC -0 None Dome~~ los 1/er:ps 
~TJif:l pe-9Y!to; eodo-:.t:o 
::"~~'""-..~~~~I 
'l(t'if(!1(r'#r0 • f,l "' 
-.~ 
I 


,_,.:...,:...,...... 
;,_ 
I 

I 
J 


The Observer Friday, April27, 1984-page 4 
For more information, call Pete Laches at The Observer, 239-5303, or inquire at the office, 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center. 
$12 CASH AMERICAN PLASMA IS 
NOW HERE IN 
SOUTH BEND 
Make yourself feel great, donate blood plasma Help save a life. Receive $12 cash after your first donation 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 515 Lincolnway West 
Tue ... 8:00-5:00 Fri ... 9:00-5:00 Wed ... 9:00-5:00 Sat ... 9:00-5:00 
Bring this ad with you for bonus Exp. date, May 31, 1984 

Theo classes discussed 
By DIANNE MCBRIEN 
News Staff 
Thl· accuracy of<:hurch doctrine taught in (tnivcrsity theology courses will he dist·usscd in a closed mlTting this afternoon at the Ml·morial Library. Among the stu· dents, faculty, and administrators expected to attend are Theology Department Chairman Father Rkhard McBrien and llnivcrsity 
Provost Father Timothy O'Meara. 
Junior Christinl' Tepas organized thl' meeting to discuss what she sees as a prohkm in thl· theologkal in­format ion student~ arc receiving at Notre Dame. 
Ikr intacM in the issue was ~parked by an l'Xpl-rk·rKc in an in­troductory theoiOf.,')' course laM }Tar. Thl' instructor of the course, a doctoral candidatl', intcrprctnl a pa~sagl· in the (io~pd al-cording to Mark a~ indicating .'\1ary did not remain a virgin all of her life, as opposnlto Church doctrine. 
Wlwn Tepas suggl·Mnl his inta­pretation conllictl·d with Church tl·adling, till' in~trunor daimed till' pnpetual virginity of Mary was not part of olfidal <:atholk· doctrine. "I tinmd it ironic that soml·onl· gelling hi~ doctorate at a Catholic university wouldn't know this," said Tl·pas. 

"Blue/ Gold Game Weekend" 
Fri: Happy Hour 3-7 ·Mixed Drinks2for 1 Sat: OPEN IO:OOa.m.-Bloody Marys 1:30-Blue/ Gold Game 

Photographers! 
Interested in the positions of 
other members of the department, 
she conducted a survey, interview­
ing any theology instructor who 
consented about his or her views on 
traditional Church teachings. The 
responses she received -indicating 
several opinions dissenting from of­
tkial doctrine -along with talking 
with other students, convinced her 
of the need for something like this 
afternoon's discussion. 
Tepas is concerned many stu­
dents arc not learning the Church's 
official teachings in theology 
courses. Rather, she believes they 
an: often taught subjective inter­
pretations of Scripture and doctrine 
that kavc them unable to clearly 
dctlne or defend their own faith. 
Active in Young Life, a national Christian ecumenical youth minis­try, Tcpas says she was often ques­tionl·d by Protestant members who wantl·d to know why she, as a Caholic, believed in the wrongness of abortion or thl· infallibility of thl· Pope. "I couldn't tell them," stated Tepas. "Students aren't getting l'nough information about what Caholicism is ......(they are) not in formnl enough to ddi:nd the faith." 
'l'l'pas empha~ized she did not ob­jl'l't to the teaching of dissenting opinions as long as the instructor did not teach thl·m as Church doctrine. 


on everythingfrom records to clothes 




SUPER 
~SALE 
Sat. 10-9 so~ Sun. 12-6 Admission 
Notre Dame ACC 

CLOTHING 
JORDACHE 

LADIES BLOUSES 
CALVIN KLEIN 

SHIRTS 
SASSOON -LEE 

SLACKS & MORE 
FROM 14.97 

50°/o off 
I 
1 
1OOO's OF ROCK
JEWELRY 

CONCERT SHIRTS

§0°/o off. 

$3.99 
WATERBE:DS SAVE UPTO 50°/ol 
FROM WATERBEDS WATERBEDS WATERBEDS 
~~~ STEREQW~~~LL
~\..\.. ,,.~ 
PIONEER-CRAIG JENSEN -SANYO SANSUI -MUCH MORE OVER $500,000 LIQUIDATION 
SAVE UP TO 75°/o 
DENIM JACKETS 
$19 
FLASH DANCE SHIRTS 
$9 
PHONE 
5.99 
CORDLESS 
59.79 

MICHAEL. LEATHER JACKSON JACKETS POSTERS 
$58 
1.49 CYCLE 
WHILE 1000 LAST 
JACKETS 
$99 
PONY 
995 
!~~ 2~~oe _ 
SAVE 113 IUIIISIIID 
NIKE
Kids Running 1295 
REG. 19" SAVE '7 ' 
adidas . 
Runninl! 95 
IUS AlllilDIS 
14
REG.$25 
BOOTS ACME DOUBLE H 
DAN POST 
LASALLE 
•vAy 
VV£sr

234-6010 z 
<( 
~ 


---------------------~----------------------~ 
). The Observer 
Friday, April 27, 1984 -page 5 



:-~;JEREMIAH--:· 
Aging studies funded 
By MARGARET PFEIL 
News Staff 
The Gerontological Education,




ISWEENE ! 
t t.  HAPPY  t t  
t  t  
I  HOUR  :  
t  t  
t  Early Happy Hour: 4:00-7:00pm Mon-Fri  t  
t tt  and also featuring... Late Night Happy Hour  t tt  
I  lOpm-Close Monday thru Thursday  t  
:  11pm -Close Friday and Saturday  :  
t  t 

t Free 'Munchies t
l __________________________• 
Research, and Services ( GERAS) Center of Notre Dame will be providing research grants for under­graduate and graduate students to fund research on aging. 
The GERAS Center is offering the grants to students in any discipline. Research proposals must be sub­mitted by Oct. 1 and will be con­sidered for grants to be awarded Nov. I. 
The proposed research, to be completed within one year, must focus on gerontology and be con­ducted primarily by the student with supervision by a faculty mem­ber. A maximum of five under­graduate awards for S500 and five graduate awards for $1000 will be made for the 1984-85 academic year. 
For applications for the project and for additional information about the GERAS Program, students may contact the GERAS Center on the fifth floor of Memorial Library. 
The theory behind this research project is based upon the linkage of 
As boys, they made a pact to share their fortunes, their loves, their lives_ As men, they shared a dream to rise from poverty to power. Forging an empire built on greed, violence and betrayal, their dream would end as a mystery that refused to die_ 
ARNON MILCHAN Presents ASERGIO LEONE Film starring ROBERT De NIRO "ONCE UPON ATIME IN AMERICA" Also s..n• ~MES WOODS ELIZABETH McGOVERN Jll PESCI BURT YOOM; as·a· TUEID\Y WElD 11111 TREAT WILLIAMS as "JillllfO'"'-"" --11110 II!IIRIOOl ,__,_IUIDO IIIIICII .._.SE1G0 LBR:. LHlWIOO IIIMillll, PIERO De BIRIW!!I. EIIIICO lllllll, FR.Wl AIICNll, FR.WJ F1111111 
Prlllilced by ARNON MILCHAN Direct~ by SERGIO LEONE 
UIIISiilllllft.:ll ..... . 

-....,... ~A lADO COMPJI\NY RELEASE 
....w~•lllliiYilOIItl ---..-WA~N,!!!~,==~'!E'=0 
· .. OPENS JUNE 1st AT THEATRES EVERYWHERE. 
·. 'I..,' 1 .... < 
the considerable need for more research in gerontology and the Uni­versity's role, or what its role should be, in generating inquiry and research in this area. 
"The University needs to exhibit more interest in the problems of aging and the aged," notes Professor John Santos, Director of the GERAS Program and Center. A higher education should encompass ex­posure to issues affecting the elder­ly, he believes, particularly since they comprise a steadily increasing segment of the nation's population. 
The research awards are intended to provide incentive for students to become involved in this area. 
"We need to engage the youth. I believe that they arc genuinely in­terested in the elderly,"Santos says. 
Through researching a topic related to aging, they may pursue further education, trammg, or service in the field ofgerontology. 
The GERAS Program was formally established in 1978 under a grant from the Retirement Research Foundation ( RRF). 


Dean 
continuedfrom page 1 
policy will put the University in a tough situation. 
The change will mean students assume the risk ofbeing arrested for underage drinking at the bars or for vandalism, said Jackowski. Saint Mary's has had a "few problems related to alcohol, but there has been a significant decrease." However. Jackowski admitted the decrease could be a result of stu­dents going to Notre Dame to drink. 
Jackowski did not say Notre Dame would not have difficulties enforc­ing the policy changes, but in devis­ing Saint Mary's policy, she said the College did not want anything in it they could not enforce. 
"R.A.'s feel uncomfortable enforc­
ing it," said Jackowski, but it is "low 
key," and they "do not overreact to 
responsible drinking (in dorm 
rooms)." 
The College wanted the rules to 
make sense relative to state law. 
"The strength of our policy is that 
across the board it's consistent Any 
inconsistencies will cause 
problems," she said, referring to 
Notre Dame's policy which would 
allow drinking at semi-formal 
dances as an exception. 
Aside from excessive party noise or drinking in the hallways, Saint Mary's has had very few problems with students entertaining in their rooms, Jackowski said. "We chose not to stipulate a number" of per­sons allowed in any one room. "It's not the number that causes problems, it's behavior." 
The change will mean more 
creativity to develop more appeal­
ing activities as an alternative to al­
cohol, Jackowski said. "We're 
talking about changing attitudes." 
But she admitted "students will do 
what they want and if that's 
(drinking) the weekend activity, 
they'll do it." 
"The approach the lhiversity and the College arc taking is that drink­ing as a primary act (sole activity on weekends) is a problem, and you can't do it here in an abusive way." 
A.I.S. Shipping and Packaging 
You wrap or we wrap 3617 Mishawaka Ave. Mishawaka at Logan Mon.-Fri. 8:30-5:00 We Ship Exclusively UPS 
--·---------------------------­

r-------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------­
The Observer 
Grant 
continuedfrom page I 
Mc:tahofism in Tumor and Trans­
fi>rmnl Cc:lb." Basu will study two 
diffl'rc:nt tumor situations -the: 
nntrohlastoma in humans and 
tumor cc:lls in guinea pigs. 
A cntain lipid c.:alkd tht· For~~man glycolipid has heen locatnl in hoth type~ of tumors. and Basu has tinmd three different enzymes which catalyze biosyn­thesis of thb glyc.:olipid. 
Investigation in Basu's lao on tht· 
dftTts of various lcl"lins and toxins 
in human nc:urohla~toma ( INR-:U) 
and mouse: nntrohlastoma ( N-1 H) 
dont·~ rc:vt·alnl that intac.:t Ricin, a 
highly toxic plant protc:in, inhibits 
DNA syntht·sis. 
This is important hn:ausc: the 
DNA found in cells controls cdl divi­
sion, and if DNA synthc:sis can he: 
~toppnl. tht· growth of cancn cdls 
can also ht· halted. 
The.· Ricin B chain bol;~tnl from in­
tact Ricin hinds nt·urohla~toma cdl 
.surfaces as well as inhibiting the 
I>NA S\'stht·si,(ing enzynH", DNA 
p< >hnwrase-alph;~. 
Ba~u thinks the: Hil'in B chain can 
he u~nlli>r thl· introduction ofdrugs 
and llH>IH>don.tl anti-hodic~ for n>n­
t rol of I>NA syntlll'sb in cancer cells. 
The physics departmt·nt abo rn·l'ivnl grants. (>f the monl·y. s.~o.ooo wa~ aw anini hy till' Nation­al Sdt·nl"l' l'oundat ion as a part of an on-going project for new computing t;ll'ilitn. 
At"Cortling to l'rof(:~sor Walter Johnson. dl.lirman of the physics tkpartment, till' nl·w Ridgl· mini· computer fi>r atomic structurl· cal­ntlations is "statt· of the art." It will lw usnl mainly hy the: atomic physic~ group consisting of one: t;tculty mc:ml)("r, two post-doctoral assistants. and two graduate: stu· dents. 
Tht· 550,000 wa~ ju~t an equip­ment gram as part of a largn projel"l titled "lkscarch and the Rdativistic Handom l'ha.sc.· Approximation" al­ready in progrl·ss. Thl· l "nivnsity has already paid $20.000 of the hill. This l"quipmcnt. Johnson s;tid. rl·gularly costs 5100.000 hut was bought at a bargain rate: from f{idgl· <.omputt-rs. <>nly rl'l"l'lltly availahk. the new mini-computer has the capacity of other computns priced .tt $1 million. 
Abo in the physics c.kpartnu:nt. l'rokssor Jamc.·s ( :u~hing reccivnl S I2,000 from the: NSF for research in the history and philo~ophy of physic,, a topic he ha., worked with extt'lt.sively in the past. 
Spc:dfkallv. <:ushing is examining tht· ~dc.·ntifk thinking process ­how scient ilk opinion re.tche~ ;tgrc.·c.·mc.·nt. I k is looking at tht·oric.·~ in pll\·.,ics to slT \\ hy they 'llt"l'l'l"dnl or t;ti InI 
In particular.< :ushing is making a ca~e ~tudv of tht· ~-\latrix theory, a tlwon al"lin·h· dehatnl about tl'll n·ar~ ago. ami ascertaining whv it \\a' worked on and why it \\as .thandonnl 
<''" crnmcnt l'rok~sor Hobert 
llul·kfi:ldt n·n·i\nl S I 12.0-(> from the NSI· filr the ~tudv of ~ol'ial in­tluent"l' in .tn ekction campaign. I k will he n>llahorating on thl· projel"l with l'roli:s~or .John Sprague. a political scientist ar \\ a~hington l"nivn,it\· in ~t l.oui,_ 
Tht· lndian.t l nin·r~itv Cn~tcr li1r ~un l'\ Rt·sc.·;trch has been l"OII· tractnl to t'OIIlltu·t a poll of ap· proxunatch· l.'iOO JKoplt-to trv to determine voting intluntlT~. 
llucl-.fddt i~ looking at how opinions and Hltt·s arc swaynl hy puhlic opinion and peer inllm·tH'l'. Ill' wants to oh~en'l' last-minutt· opinionchangt·' and determine how ntttch social inllut·nn· is rt·sponsihll' for~~ person's final dwin·. 
Not availahk fi>r immnliate com­nH·nt \\TH' John Borkow~ki. proks­sor of p~\"l"hology. and Scolt Maxwdl. :t.~sodate proti:ssor of p~y­chology. who rnTived a S(H,H f -~ grant from the :--;111 fi>r research on tht· GlliSl'S and con~l't(Ul'lllTS of metamemory 
Also not available was Dr. Andrew work. The conflict between civil and Sommese, professor ofmathematics, moral law will offer the hasis for who received 526,000 from the: NSF reflection and discussion among the: for research on transcendental al­judgc:s, who have had considerable gehrak geometry. experic:nce -with such cases in thc:ir 
In another area, Dr. Teresa God­own work. win Phelps, assistant profc:ssor of Awarlls for other projects include law, rc:cc:ivell S 1,439 from the In­S97,700 from the US. Department diana Committee: for the: Humanities of Education for the Educational for an instru<:tional program titled Talc:nt Sc:arch conducted through "Doing Justice:: Literary Texts, the Institute ti>r Urban Studic:s. The llumanistic Valuc:s and Courts." Educational Talent Search is a 
This program is a llay-long semi­federally funded c:ducational assis­nar for 12 to I'i area judges to take: tance program in operation locally place: June 16 at the: Cc:ntt·r for in St. joseph and Elkhart counties. <:ontinuing Education. 
Aimc:d primarily at counseling,
Ead1 judge will be asked to read the Educational Talc:nt Sc:arch hasthree: hooks -Billy Budd by IIer­hc:lpc:d 60 percent of the 1,000 stu­man Mc:lvillc:, The Caucasian Chalk dents it allvises to placement in post­Circle hy Bertolt Brecht, and an 
secondary schools.
anthropologial text llc:aling with justice: among the Cheyenne Indians The program has heen in calkd The Cheyenne Way by Carl existc:nce at Notre Dame for ap­Llewc:lyn. proximately three and a half yc:ars, 
Each hook deals with a conflict in although it was creatc:d I 7 years ago law where: justice doc:sn't sec:m to under the phnson administration. 

Friday, April 27, 1984 -page 6 
This weekend at the NAZZ: 

Friday: ~~eith Rosnell and Jon Hartage 9-10 p.m. Peggy Jones and Mike Hall10-12 p.m. 
Saturday: FLOC-Assorted Talent 8-10 p.m. Triple Sec . ...... 10-12 p.m. 

• o ,• • ,. o o '• •' L'• 
--~~--~---~­

The Observer 

Senator Gary Hart moved his campaign to Indiana yesterday, campaigning to the farm workers whose farms are being repossessed by banks. According to the 

EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 

CORDIALLY INVITES YOU TO ATTEND OUR 
"Study Break Social" 

TAKE A STUDY BREAK & JOIN US 
* 
LEARN ABOUT OUR TEST PREP PROGRAMS. 

* 
TALK WITH OUR INSTRUCTORS AND STAFF. 

* 
REFRESHMENTS VILL BE SERVED! 



WHEN: April 30, 7-9 pm 
WHERE: South Dining Hall, 2nd fl. Notre Dame Campus 
• -....... ' ... ~ ' .... 'I'" • ' 
Friday, April27, 1984-page 7 
Hart speaks in Indiana of farming concerns 
Associated Press 
SELLERSBURG, Ind. -Gary Hart ripped into the Reagan ad­ministration's policies yesterday, asserting that tht~' "are mortgaging our children and future generations ofchilpren." 
The Colorado senator said far­mers are suffering because interest rates are the highest in history and "have to be brought down." 
Hart said farmers arc "cn:dit­dependant and if they can't get credit, they're going under. More agricultural land will be swallowed by the big corporations." 
Hart brought his message to a group of about SO Clark County far­mers, who had gathered at the home of Edgar Vissing and his family. 
"There will be no more grain em­bargoes," he asserted. "The embargo was one of the worst ideas the last Democratic president had." 
Hart promised them that, if elected president, he would appoint a special assistant to focus on agriculture and its problems. 
Wearing blue jeans, a brown checkered shirt and cowboy boots, Hart spoke from the steps of a trac­
tor and later fielded questions from 
his audience, seated on bales of 
straw. 
David Gray, a 29-year-old farmer 
from Jefferson County, Ind., said 
foreclosure proceedings were being 
started next Monday on his farm and 
he had been unable to borrow more 
money. 
"A farmer's pension is his land and 
I'm going to lose mine," Gray said. 
"I'm 29-years-old and can start over, 
but what about my father, who is ~7 
and has been trying to help me?" 
Hart replied that he'd been 
hearing the same story everywhere 
he campaigned. "I've been saying all 
along here should be a moratorium 
on foreclosures. 
"Farmers always seem to vote 
Republican and the Republicans arc 
always the hardest on them," he said. 
"The administration doesn't care for 
you." 
Earlier, Vissing gave Hart a tour of 
his farm and told him about the 
tough times farmers are facing in his 
community. 
"This is the roughest I've seen it in 
45 years of farming," said Vissing, 
who is 58. 
Vissing admitted that he hadn't al­ways been a Hart supporter but ''I'm a life-long Democrat." 
He said former Vice President 
Walter Mondale has "too many ties 
to labor to suit me. I liked Hart's 
looks and he has some new, fresh 
ideas. He's a young man. I can't 
knock Reagan but he hasn't been 
able to lower the deficit." 
Hart, in one of his few references 
to Mondale, said his opponent 
doesn'.t have "a program to put 
peqple back to work and that's what 
we need." 
Before leaving, Hart told the 
group, "when you don't like the way 
things are going, there's always the 
ballot box. That's why I'm here." 
Jazz Great Count Basie dead at 79 
Associated Press 
HOLLYWOOD, Fla. 
Count Basic, whose bright, simple 
piano style brought him internation­
al fame in the "swing" era of jazz, 
died in his sleep early yesterday of 
cancer, a disease his doctors never 
told him he had. He was 79. 
"It's a great loss. I hate to even think about it," jazz musician Lionel Hampton said. Basic was "one of the true greats of music. He had his own particular style .... It was one ofthe greatest styles you could hear." 
"He'll be remembered as long as 
there is a world." said composer­
pianist Dave Brubeck. "He was loved 
all over the world and all the jazz 
musicians had tremendous respect 
for him and he'll never leave us." 
"He was the best. He was a cool 
person," said Anita ()'Day, who sang 
with Basic's orchestra in tht: 1940s. 
"Everything he played was always 
the right little riff in the right little 
place." 
Basic, who began his career in the 
1920s as a S3-a-night piano player, 
was hospitalized for treatment of a 
severe ulcer, but doctors soon 
learned he had pancreatic cancer, 
said Dr. Leo Schildhaus. 
"Had he known or been aware 
that he had cancer -he had such a 
fear of it -he would have given up 
hope of living. Anyone that might 
have seen him in Hollywood would 
know that he did not look as though 
he had a problem," Aaron Wood­
ward, Basic's adopted son, said at a 
news conference. 
He had performed at the Hol­
lywood Palladium in California 
March 19, his last public perfor­
mance before he decided to return 
to the hospital. 
The Observer Friday, April 27, 1984 -page 8 
Pepper calls elderly Mondale's concern 
Associated Press program, will he cndangcred if 
President Rcagan is re-elected, Pcp­

INDIANAPOLIS -Walter F. pcrclaimcd. Mondak would protect elderly "Thc next prcsidcnt ofthc Unitcd citizens' Social Security and States is going to ha~c a great dcal to Medicare henc!lts if he were presi­cquire greater payments dent. Rep. Claude Pepper, D-Fiorida, from people in the program and said yestl'fday. raise the agc of cligibility. Both 
reforms havc been suggested by an Campaigning for the former vice 
advisory commission, he said. president less than two weeks 
Mondale would attcmpt to cut hdorl-the May H Democratic 
costs in the program, hut he would presidential primary, Pepper 
not try to rcducc hencfits, Pcpper lkscrihnl Mondak as an "old 
said. friend" who "came to the United "If you havc Waltcr Mondalc in Stall'S Senatl' litl·rally in the the White llousc, you'vc got as the filotstl·ps of lluhcrt II. llumphrey," head of your country a man who is tlw late Minnesota senator and for­one of the co-authors of program," llll'r vicl· pn:sident. said Pepper, pointing out that Mondalc helped write the original
The H.~-ycar-old chairman of the 
Medicare legislation while serving

Ilouse Sdl-ct Committee on Aging, 
in the Senate. 

~aid Mondalc is dnli<:ated to the 
Though devoted to social

"same great humanitarian program" programs, Mondalc also realizes thatllumphrey l'ndorscd. 
"we've got to have money to pay for

Social Scn1rity and Medicarl·, two those programs," said Pepper, who
kl'Y ekment~ in the "humanitarian" 
Correction 
lkcausc of a production error, two names were omitted from an article in Yl'Sterday's (J.bsen•er on the ROTC units. l.t. Col. Robert 
<i. Skinner liSA and Col. John D. Milt:s USAF wc:re also pn·sent on tlu-reviewing stand. 


John T. Gunning, BBA Audit 
INDIANAPOLIS OFFICE 
Audit Russell M. Rempala, MBA Kevin P. Killilea, BBA·
Consulting Audit
BALTIMORE OFFICE Joseph S. Roveda, BS John J. Ruhlmann, BBA Consulting 
KANSAS CITY OFFICE 
Audit 

Mary Kay Stangle, BBA Jean A. Yankee, MBA 
Audit 
Tax
BOSTON OFFICE 

Joseph H. Stephan, BBA Daniel E. Fitzsimmons, BBA Audit 
MILWAUKEE OFFICE 
Audit 

William G. Stotzer, BBA Peter J. Kerwin, BBA 
Audit AuditCHICAGO OFFICE 
Brian T. Burt, BBA 

CHICAGO -WORLD NEW JERSEY OFFICE Consulting 
HEADQUARTERS Timothy J. Willis, BBA 
Mark E. Buschman, BBA Margaret E. Ford, BA Audit Audit Technical Services Christine L. Callahan, BBA NEW YORK OFFICE 
Audit CLEVELAND OFFICE William J. Keneally, BBA David E. Campbell, BBA James H. Bares, BBA Audit Audit Audit 
PHOENIX OFFICE 
Patricia M. Cooney, MBA Ernest L. Yallorz, Jr., JD Glen G. Gwarda, BBA 
Consulting Tax Audit

Kathleen M. Coughlin, BBA 

Audit DALL,"S OFFICE PITTSBURGH OFFICE 
Stephen P. Colbourn, BBA John A. Butler, BBA Keith P. Creehan, BS
Consulting Audit Consulting
James M. Dee, BBA Anne M. Drollinger, BBA Sally J. Esposito, BBA 
Audit Audit 
Tax
Rian M. Gorey, MBA Mary E. Lang, BS

PONY 995 DENVER OFFICE 
Consulting Consulting

2
J. Michael Cornett, BBA !~ ~~oe Timothy H. Hart, BBA 
SAVE •u au~~S~Uo Audit Tax ROCHESTER OFFICE 
James J. Herrmann, BBA Mary E. Stevens, BBA 
DETROIT OFFICE 
Audit Audit
MIKE Joseph J. McCarthy, BBA Kids Running 1295 Peter B. Holland, BBA 
Tax 

ST. LOUIS OFFICE SAVE'7 Sharon J. Terpin, BS Mary C. McCown, BBA 
REG. 19" Audit 
Michael L. Howard, JD 

Consulting Audit
adidas . Tax 

Christopher J. Stephen, BSJohn M. Kuhns, BS 
HARTFORD OFFICE 
Runninl!: 495 Consulting
Consulting

IUSlJI)LiDIS Theodore J. Haussler, BA 
1 
Robert F. Lutz, BBA 
REG.$25 

Consulting TAMPA OFFICEAudit 
Frederick J. McCarthy, BA Laura M. Cuffe, MBA Lucy A. Mills, BBA 
Const.ilting ConsultingAudit 
James D. Stapleton, BBA Judith D. Murtagh, JD 
WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE Tax Audit 
Kevin G. McCarthy, BBA 
has served n hoth the Senate and the llouse during a 35-year career in Washington. 

I k said Mondalc would generate additional revenue for government hy putting people hack to work and hy strengthening the United States' position in international trade. Walter Mondale, sboum bere at Case Western Reserve Florida in bisIndiana campaign. TbeAssociatedPress 
Pepper also said Mondalc, whom Universi~l' is being helped by Rep. Claude Pepper of story at left outlines Pepper's efforts doumstate. 
he'~ known for 20 years, has the "steady hand" and the "steady head" a president needs ifht is required to make a quid. decision on whether to usc nuclear weapons. 

ARTHUR 
Al\JDERSEN 
&(9 
We are pleased to announce the following 1984 graduates of the University of Notre Dame have recently become asS<JICiated with our firm: 
ATLANTA OFFICE Daniel K. Nelson, BBA HONOLULU OFFICE William J. Dawahare, BBA Audit Celeste V. Oda, BBA Audit Richard E. Paxton, BBA Audit 

Audit 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co. 33 WEST MONROE STREET, CHICAGO, IL 60603 (312) 580-0033 
The Observer 

Passengers off a Libyan Airli11es flight at London's Heathrow Airport are detained by immigration offi­cials. The Libyan People's Bureau is still undersiege in London as the English diplomats prepare to leave Libya. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION & THE STUDENT-ALUMNI RELATIONS GROUP (SARG) present 

The Senior-Alumni Picnic 

Saturday, April28, 10:30 ·12:30 at Senior Bar 
HOT DOGS, BEER, SNACKS 

Meet Alumni Club representatives who will have information about clubs and cities. 
All Seniors invited · No Admission Charge 

'-------------....................................----............................................__...._____.~· 
Don't Miss The ND Student Players' 
Camelot 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday THIS WEEKEND · April26, 27 and 28 In The Bendix Theater, Century Center BPM 
Tickets are still on sale at the Record Store, Century Center, and the O'Laughlin Box Office 
Buses will be provided to the Century Center for Fridays performance!! Sign up at the S.U. Record Store. Tickets are going fast· Get 'em now!! 

Friday, April 27, 1984 -page 9 
ND researchers study human vision changes 
Special to The Observer and colleague Frank Schieber es· tablished three years ago. Most people consider it a fact of The theory concerns two types of
life that their eyesight will neural channels in the human visual
deteriorate as they get older. But system -the transient channels
what they don't realize is that which are responsible for the per·
prescription eyeglasses may not be ception of large and moving objects
among the remedies. in the visual field, and the sustained
A group of researchers in the Psy­channels which affect how well an
chology Department are conducting individual out
extensive human trials to better will pick small. detailed or stationary objects or pat·
define and understand age-related terns.
changes in human vision and their impact upon daily tasks, such as 
Kline's research supports their driving a car. 
theory that the aging process This area of research, which 
changes the visual system so that the: combines some of the techniques 
balance between the two channds used by vision scientists, clinicians, 
appears to si)ift toward the sustained gerontologists and psychologists. 
channels and away from the: tran· goes beyond the matter-of-fact as­
sient channels. As a result, the ability sumption that eyesight deteriorates 
to detect moving objectswith age. More specifically, the 
deteriorates more quickly. research group is probing how and why the different neural channels For the aging visual system, from the brain to the eye will change Kline's research predicts increasing as they age. difficulty to detect movement or changes in events and the need for
Dr. Donald Kline, associate more contrast for the visual system
professor of psychology who heads to maintain its ability to detect small
the research group, has received a objects.
five-year $39,627 NIH Research Career Development Award. This In tests using a computer· type of award recognizes outstand­
controlled oscilloscope, Kline varies ing health-related research and is the width, contrast, brightness and given to only a few researchers each 
speed ofblack and green bars as they year. 
move across a fluorescent screen. 
Although the field is not neces­The subjects being tested are asked sarily a new one, it has been to push a button to change the con­neglected to the extent ofattracting trast level so they c:m no longer special support from the National In­"set:" the bars because the contrast stitutes of Health (NIH). is too low, the bars are moving too 
The thrust of Kline's current fast or they have becoml' too nar­research builds upon a theory he row. 
Don't let this chance escape you! 

Ihe-Obset:ver-is looking for a limited number of nighttime production workers for next semester. Learn valuable layout skills and have fun too. Stop by the LaFortune office soon for an application and more information. 
SUMMER STOJlAGIJ SPACE 
Special discount for KD/SMC students (5 x 10 spaces and larger) CALL 259·0338 to USIBVI SPACII SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKINLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka Security Patrol Checks 
Senior Bar Cards will be sold Mon., Tues., Wed. (April30 ·May 2) in North and South Dining Halls and SMC Dining Hall from 5-6:30pm Bar Cards are $18.00 now. Prices will go up at the end of the school year 

••••• -w ---·-·· --~----• -. ---......-.~-• ' •• -•• ---• '-• 

Friday, April27, 1984-page 10 
Showcase 
ND Student Players' Camelot ­

A duel between real and ideal 
confused, bumbling friend, are both
by Mary Jacoby 
enjoyable.
features staff writer The Bendix Theater at the Cen­tury Center in South Bend is a com­fortable facility; seeing and hearing 
M
agk, ":hivalry, the dash he­m(.'fly lacked. lie conceives of his 
the action was not a problem. The twn:n nohk idea~ ofgoodn(.:ss famous "knights of tht· round table" 
remaining performaces are tonightami n·ality's disappointm~:nt -idea as the action takes off. 
and Saturday at H p.m. tht·M· familiar thcrn<:s an· all irKor­poratnl into tht· Notre Damt· Stu­One of the most entertaining mo­<knl Players' production of ments ofthe production is the intro­"C;undot," which opened last night duction of Lancelot ( Roh~:rt Fuller) at the Bendix Tht·ater in South Bend. with the song "C'est Moi." Fuller's The IX·rf(,rmance, however, was not mocking, sdf-adoring attitudt· had up to potential, although sevt·ral the audience laughing as he sang bright ~pots pullnl it through. such lines as "the godliest man I know -c'est moil'' "Far too noble The produnion opens with an to lie ...with virtue to spare," Lan­aging King Arthur ( Kt·vin Stavely­cdot loudly and confidently <)'( :arroll) wond(.:ring if his "lift· has prodaimt:d his attributes while all hn·n ju~t a dream" or not. I lis t(,r­catching a glance at his image in his mer mt·ntor. the magician ,\-lt-rlyn brightly polished sword. (Stt·n· llorst ), was not ahk to warn Arthur that youthful itlt-als and illu­The rill between ideal and reality sion., otit·n fall prey to oth('r human isfurther explored in the duration of inlt-rt·~t~. tht· play. Lancdot and (iuen~:vere's lovt· for each other create one con­From the prologut·, scene on(' tlk-1 fi1r Arthur. while Arthur's il­hegin~ with a lla~hhack to tht· young kgitimate son Mordrnl (David Arthur, unsurt· of himsdf ami wary Barhn ), scht·ming his father's of hi~ kingship. ;\krlyn's attt'llliHs to downfall, i~ another inM ruct and inspire eonfidt'rKe in tht· young king art· shadowt·d by lht· 

The action was a little slow in inllut·ntT of Lady (iut·nevt·re (Julia 
parts, t·specially wlwn tht· ensemble Easlq ), Arthur's intt·mkd wik 

was on stage and during portions of stTurnl hy a political treaty. Arthur 
lht· second act. llo\H'Vt-r,Julia Eas­t;rlls in lovt· with (iut·nt·vt-r and dis­
Il-y's voice and Ivan Mlachak's (.'on-rs till' zeal ti1r ruling that he li1r­
portrayal of Pellinore, Arthur's half­

YES-quality of yesterday with style oftoday 
Kevin Williams 
nificantly different Yes. guitarist Chris Squire -both mem­Yes currently is currently made bers ofthe original Yes; and new­
features staff writer up ofkeyboardist Tony Kaye, a comer, guitarist Trevor Rabin. founding member ofthe orignal Yes When Yes was first reorganizing who was later replaced hy Rick after the breakup, it was undt:r the 
Y
t·s ishal·k. show as eomputer-generated grap­

Wakeman; drummer Alan White, name Cinema and without Jon An­Some of the faces wt·re nt·w. who became a member ofthe old derson. With the inclusion ofAnder­
hics were projected behind tht· hut quite a few of thl· songs were hand. The grapics included the Yes when he replaced Billl:lruford; son, there was no question that the t;uniliar 10 old fans. formation ofthe Yes logo which was vocalist jon Anderson and bass group should again be calh:d Yes. Tht· reincarnation ofont· of the shown at the opening and dosing of "'o~· most popular hands playnl 10 a the show. n·ry receptive, near sdl-oul crowd Other than tht· graphics, the stage at tlw A<:<: last night. Thl· show was a show was rather unpretentious ­good mix ofsongs from Y t•s' new al­none of the dazzling lighting effeets hum. 1)0/.!5. and song~ that were of(ienesis or the stage theatrics of recordnl -as kad vocalist Jon An­Kansas. None of this was necessary, derson put it -"many moon~ ago." though. Yes simply came to play. Bdi1rt· the hand took the stagt· The conn-rt opent·d with "Leave shortly after Hp.m.. 1hl' crowd was It" from the new album, and t·ntenairwd by crrtoons shown on a followed with "Yours is No Dis­
Jon Anderson, lead vocalist
M·rt·t·n at the n·ar oftht· stagt·. The grace," appearing most n·ct·ntly in 
Sl'H'l'n was also usnl during tht· the alhum Classic Yes, rdeased shortly before the original hand hrokt· up. 
Yes alternated between songs from 90125 and sdected "oldies." Before the concert was over. the hand had played virtually every song from the new alhum and more than halfa dozen cuts from previous al­bums, including "And You And 1," and "Long Distance Runaround" Tht.· Yes classic "Siarship Trooper" from Yessongs was to have ht·en the finale. but the hand was called back t(>r an encore. The final song of tht· show was one the audierKI: had been ealling for all night ­"Roundabout." 
The music itselfwas very im­pr~:ssive. Yes demonstrated that their sound is not a produl't of engineering, as is the case with hands like Tht· Alan Parsons Projeet. All ofthe numbers were faithful rt.·presentations oftheir album coun­by Lev Chapelsky 

terparts. This is quite a feat, considering that several ofthe songs were originally l'l'corded 'With a slg--· _,_.,._._,J_. ·-·. 
· "ChrisSquire, bass guit-arist·.·..·•·•·•· . . 

7lmy Kaye, ke)•boardisl and founding member of Yes, flh~rs u•hile compute1·-generated graphics are pn)ied£•d in the back­gmund. 

Showcase Friday, April27, 1984-page 11 
Letters to a lonely God 
Beer and chivalry 
two dozen students pounding at typewriters in the Keenan-Stanford
by Rev. Robert Griffin 
features columnist 

I
study lounge, writing letters of protest to draft boards, hoping the 'm reminded of the Lost Causes misses his footing, and falls to his post office would sink under the that heroes have died for and of death. volume of mail. mock epic heroes tilting with And bow can man die better Years later, I watched the Vietnam windmills. I am reminded of the Than facing fearful odds, veterans on television, weeping at young man who regretted having For the ashes ofhisfathers the memorial in Washington, where only one life to give for his country, And the temples ofhis gods? the Vietnam war dead are listed. One 
and of the senior, acting like a fresh­Though nobody should die for a tank old soldier complained: "We were Movie action at the Engineering Auditorium this weekend in­cludes two India Association film classics. Tonight at 7 and I 0: I 5, 
man, who feels he has met an idea town's water tank, every school boy sent to a hellhole by the govern­whose time has come. I am knows that the battle ofWaterloo ment, to fight a war we couldn't win. 
"Lawrence ofArabia" will be shown. Tomorrow night at 7 and I 0:45, Charlton Heston fans can swoon over "Ben Hur".
reminded of the fools who have was won on the playing field ofEton. When we came home, college stu­thrown away their lives for a trifle, During Vietnam, a group ofstu­dents spit on us as baby burners." I Tonight at 7:30, the Friday Night Film Series presents "We All 
and daredevils who died climbing dents decided to protest the war would feel embarrassed ifI ever had 
Loved Each Other Very Much," a I977 Italian film with English sub­Everest because, beyond a doubt, "it with a 48-hour sit-in on the steps of to explain to that veteran what we 
titles. This chronicle ofltaly's social and political problems from the is there." Many a flower was born to the main building. Friday was warm were doing at our peace Masses. 
Resistance to the present is also an anthology ofcinematic styles that traces the evolution ofItalian cinema from neorealism to theblush unseen and waste its sweet­and lovely, and they were out there Given the strong feeling, we had to ness on the desert air, on the road as a children's crusade, where hold the rallies. Ten years later, the present. The film will be shown in the Annenburg Auditorium and admission is 52. 50. 
less travelled, or along the parade everyone could see them with signs cosmetics ofglamor have worn off route followed by the chap hearing denouncing the policies of the those rallies, no matter how many The Monday Night Film Series will present the film "The 
the beat ofa different drummer. government dumping napalm on times the old stories are told. 
Stuntman" at 7. This suspenseful mystery including an offbeat Golden lads and girls all must peasants. Theywere very sincere, ar­Apriest who has been ten years in 
romance stars Peter O'Toole as a satanic movie director who, in his mania, adopts a fugitive from the law to stand in for a stunt man killed
As chimney sweepers, come to dust. guing for peace, while their class­heaven told me the story ofthe first on the set ofhis World War I epic. "The Stuntman" will be shown in
Let the trumpets blow anthems for mates were playing with frisbees in FatherJohn Cavanaugh meeting the Annenburg and admission is S2. 50. 
doomed youth. Here are the fallen the April sunlight, or getting ready Notre Dame students returning At 9 on Monday, the Film Series will present the I970 film
archangels ofour tainted race who to go to dances. On Friday night, from some encounter against "Women in Love." GlendaJackson, Oliver Reed and Alan Bates star
gave the last full measure of their when everyone else went to bed, bigotry in downtown South Bend. . in this story oftwo sisters who struggle against the confines ofa rural
devotion, dying as rebels without a they stayed there. You could think of FatherJohn said: "Notre Dame stu­English mining town and its rigid layers ofsociety. Around them D. H.
cause. It is better to have loved and them, as you fell asleep, witnessing dents are men ofbeer and chivalry." Lawrence weaves one of his best studies ofsexual uneasiness and
lost than never to have loved at all. to stragglers coming home from I suppose he meant that their doubt. The film will be shown in the Annenburg and admission is
"Ifyouth but knew; if age only parties. defense of the Catholic faith was im­$2.50.
could!" The thoughts ofyouth are Saturday, the weather changed. It proved by the argument that Malt •MUSIC
long, long thoughts. grew colder, it rained, and finally it does more than Milton can to justify William Faulkner is the writer snowed. On Saturday, at midnight, God's ways to man. This weekend the Music Department will present the second an­
who tells the stories best: the young they were sitting on the steps, "Youth is a wonderful thing," G.B. 
nual Festival ofBrass which will open tonight at 7:30 in Washington Hall. Eleven college and university brass ensembles will participate
johnny Reb, serving withjeb Stuart wrapped in sleeping bags and Shaw said, "What a crime to waste it ofthe Confederate army, who makes blankets, drinking coffee out of on children." in the two day program which is open to the public without charge. the Beau geste: raiding the Union thermos jugs, trying to survive the I prefer the verses ofthe poet: Tomorrow's performances will be at I:30 and 7:30, also in Washing­Army's supply tent in full view ofthe last storm ofthe season. The sit-in When all the world isyoung, lad, 
ton Hall. Besides the Notre Dame Brass Ensemble, groups such as the enemy; getting himselfkilled, to didn't look like fun any more. And all the trees are green; 
Michigan State Trombone Quartet and the Iowa State Brass Quartet bring back anchovies for the Richard Nixon wasn't listening. And every goose a swan, lad, 
will perform one or more new pieces ofmusic for brass, composi­tions as yet unpublished.
general's tea. Along with the wisteria Notre Dame didn't care if they froze And every lass a queen; trees and the odor ofverbena, he to death. They must have asked Then hey,Jor bootand horse, lad, 
On Sunday, pianist Kayo Tatebe will perform in a recital at 8 in the Annenburg Auditorium:
becomes pan of the myth ofheroes themselves: "Why are we doing And round the world away; who perished for glory. Romance is this?" I admired their zeal and pas­Young blood must have its course, •ART an alchemist turning recklessness in­sion, but I wished they had found a lad, 
The Saint Mary's College I984 Student Faculty Art Exhibition, to an exquisite, extravagant gesture better use for their energy. I fell as­And every dog his day. which will last throughout the summer, begins tonight with an that breaks women's hearts, en­leep asking myself: Why waste a 
opening reception in the Moreau Gallery of Moreau Hall from 7-9. riches the culture, and softens a Cadillac on delivering pizza? A student keeps telling me what a 
•DANCE fratricidal war into something as Nothing improves as much as a As part ofNational Dance Week, the Abiogenesis Dance Collective
prison the campus is becoming. "We poignant as a Lost Cause. campus story at its thousandth re­all know it's a hellhole," I said, "but it will sponsor a dance tonight at 7 in the Colfax Cultural Center at 914 
Paul Horgan has a more sobering telling. I was here during the years of beats Vietnam." For the record, I Lincolnway West, South Bend. •MASS
novel ofthe high school hero who protest. A lot ofsilly stuff went on. I don't think Notre Dame is a hellhole. The celebrants for the Masses at Sacred Heart Church this
climbs the town's water tower to remember a peace Mass in I wish our students would take care paint his team's color in that LaFortune where students dressed ofthemselves, only bleeding and 
weekend will be: prominent place, just before the big like guerilla fighters kept rushing in, dying in honorable causes, and that Father Charles Corso at 5:1 5 p.m. (Saturday night vigil) game ofthe season. Apathy would be dropping paper bombs on the con­in their treatment ofothers, above 
Father Thomas Blantz at 9 a.m. ashamed in the face ofsuch a display gregation, so they could feel what a them, below them, or equal, they Father Peter Rocca at 10:30 ofspirit, except that this team player surprise attack was like. I remember would always behave fairly. 
Father DanieiJenky at 12:15 

Windom having a good time as Thurber 
by Anne Monastyrski 
features staffwriter 

Windom, star of"Thurber I" 
Most ofhis contact at various campuses has been with theatre or English majors who believe Win­dom chose to do Thurber for some deep reason. "College students want a Holy Grail" meaning behind his work, said Thurber. 
He clarified one other misconcep­tion, and offered some advice as well. "Theater students think talent will out. Talent won't out. Talent is like your left arm. It helps, but you don't really need it." 
Windom did not always want to be an actor. He did not act in school but he did not take school too seriously either. "I didn't care to be a good student, I wanted to have a good time." And he still wants to have a good time, after fulfilling his obligations as huband and father of four children aged 6-20. 
His first acting job was his role as "Richard III" which he performed for two months while he·was in the Army during World War II. In 1946 he began working for the American Repertory Company in New York. Actors in New York looked down on Hollywood actors. They were "fruitcakes in tinsel town." 

"We suffered," because" .we'reac­tors," Windom said as he described the minimal salaries on which New York actors lived. After 15 years in New York, he says he "got smart," and moved to Hollywood. People show up in the theatre unless they see you on the tube." 
One gets the impression that Win­dom is very comfortable with him­self and his lifestyle. He dresses in tennis attire and leisurely ~mokes his Avanti cigars which he carries in his racket case. 
One-man shows are easier. "It takes more effort, but less hassle," since you don't have to wait for late co-actors and the other problems that arise when more persons are in­volved. 
Windom takes pride in being a character actor and he's quick to dis­tinguish a character actor from ac­tors who are cast in roles because they are well-known. "A character actor has to be able to do more than one thing. People expect Liberace to look like Liberace and you don't give parts to Sinatra, Sinatra wouldn't play." 
Windom considers himselfa 
"stage actor who does whatever he 
can." Stage acting is the best ofall 
means ofperforming, according to 
Windom. "Stage is like dancing with 
a girl, movies like dancing with a 
chair, and TV is like dancing with a 
wet raincoat.'' 
In performing "Thurber," he doesn't try to imitate Thurber, the author. It would be pretty hard, he said, since Thurber was "six foot one and had a high squeeky voice," quite different from the actor ofmedium stature and husky voice. 
While Windom can't afford to be choosy, because he has four children to rear, his career is not an "endless horizon ofunemploy­ment." His career offers are "continual process." He does what he calls "routine material, but I do it well." 
Windom is proud of the episode of Rod Seeling's "Night Gallery" he starred in. It is the one video tape of it is a "commodity." He would 
like other actors to "say he can do 
his job." 
"There's no such thing as a bad 
audience." Each has its own personality and as far as William Windom is concerned college audiences are the best. "They react right away," he said in an interview yesterday. 
William Windom, best known for his Emmy Award winning role as the father in the NBC series "My World and Welcome to It," performed his one-man show "Thurber I" at O'Laughlin Auditorium Wednesday night. 
Windom said it was the serial that started his 12-year on-the-road rendition ofjames Thurber's short stories. He frankly admits that while he admires Thurber, "ifthe TV show was about (works by) Sinclair Lewis or O'Henry, that's what I'd be doing." 
Windom does "pure Thurber," 
contrary to the TV version which 
was ··watered-down." He chooses 
the works he brings to life on stage in "Thurber I" and in "Thurber II," his second collection ofstories about life in the Midwest by Thur­
ber. "I never met Thurber. Maybe it's just as well -he might have told me to 


r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~i~~~_()__i__Jl__t___________________Fr-id_~_,A_pr-il2-7,_19_8_4_p_~_e__l2 
There is no reason to back down now 

Fachcr Beauchamp thinks the worst is over. In a column in a South Bend newspaper, Beauchamp is quoted as hoping the whole affair will pass without prohkms, soon to takt· a hack scat to exams. 
But givt·n last week's furvor, Beauchamp shouldn't hreathe easily just yet. 

For the firsc time in recent memory, Notre Dame students have demonstrated their unity, igniting a protest which shows at least some potential for effecting constructive: change. 
At this moment, students have: both the enthusiasm and the leadership needed to have a positive t•ffcct on campus life:. The one thing that students lack, however, is dirct·tion. Whac is the student cause? What is the real issue that has angc:rc:d and alienated the student hody at Notre Dame? 
The protest against the alcohol policy has heen the focus of much media atten­tion, which for the most part has represented Notre Dame: students as irresponsible d1ildrcn. This is hct·ausc: of the misdirection of the: student uprising. Waving beer c;ms and t·hecring "let's get drunk" or "let's get stoned" only exacerbates the prohlcm. 
Protesting for the right to drink in a "21" state will promote neither puhlic sym­pathy nor a constructive dialogue with the administration. But there is nothing wrong with protesting for the right to have a party, the right to be free to invite whomt·vcr you want into your room, the right of students to have a real say in decisions which atkct campus life and the: right to he treated as responsible people. All ofwhich arc currently denied to students hy the administration. 
This aftt·rnoon ac 4:30 p.m., student government will hold a rally in front of the Administration Building to protest University policy. It can be a heginning. It can show the administration again that students have had quite enough ofbeing patted on the heads when important decisions are announced. 
Tht·rc is no reason to hack down now. Students who hlush whc:n they read about themselves in national newspapers might ao; well not show up this afternoon. This rally is for studt·nts, not Newsweek. Students have had it up to here with the llni­veristy of Notre Dame, ami today they will tell administrators loud and clear that the akohol policy is misguided, that student life is pitiful and that it's ahout time the University listens. 
-The Observer 


Editor's Note: On Monday. April 30, ing guest opmtons on the positive Vit·wpoint will focus on the role of the aspects that ROTC may play at a Cath­Hesen•e Officers· Training CmtJs on a olic university. If interested please Catholic campus such as Notrt· Dame. phone The Obsen,er at 2.39-5.303 and This is a very important and ask to spt·ak to the Vit"wpoint depart­provocative issue. Viewpoint is solicit-ment. Thank you. 
The Observer 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pollc1es of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as obJeCtively as poss1ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a maJority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of the1r authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty. and the free express1on of varymg opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 

When the dust settles 
What docs the administration of this Uni­versity hope to accomplish by enforcing an alcohol policy? The stated goal ofthe policy is to encourage responsible use of alcohol. However, the University Committee on the 
Peter Burrell 

Guest column 
Responsible Use of Alcohol wrote the policy with an unstated goal in mind. 
That unstated goal is the administration's desire to regulate all aspects ofstudent life on campus. 
Therefore, the issue here is not responsible use of alcohol, but rather, whether students will let the administration totally control the way they spend their four years ofcollege. 
During my three years here, the administra­tion's power has impressed me. It is able to impose its presence and rules on off-campus students and even on vacationers in Ft. Lauderdale. It can enforce an antcdcluvian practive called parictals. It can strip an inde­pendent newspaper of its independence. It has expelled numerous students. 
Unfortunately, the student body's reaction has depressed me. For three years, they try to negotiate for relaxation of parietals without success. They sign petitions to ban Ronald Reagan from speaking at commencement without success. 
They stand by while their friends are ex­pelled or kicked off campus for minor infrac­tions. They joke about Dean Roemer in the safety of Corby's and Bridget's. And they or­ganize a successful, nationally publicized Cap­tain Crunch Week. 
Most recently, the administration released the alcohol policy, a document written in a secret room ofa hidden monastery. 
Students, look at the reality of the situation. Examine the futility ofyour actions. 
The administration of this school has you where George III had the American colonists, where segregationists had the blacks, where the Polish Communists have Solidarity, where the British Empire had India's citizens. 
I know that the enforcement of an alcohol policy at ND pales in comparison to the enor­mity of the above historical events; however, the principle is the same. The ND administra­tion has the students stuck in a corner. 
ND Students must do something more than demonstrate ifyou are to have any freedom. First, you must get mad about the situation. This is easy when you look at the aim of the 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief. Bob Vonderheide Managing Editor . . . . . . . Mark Worscheh Executive Editor. . . . . . . Margaret Fosmoe News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton News Editor . . .. Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Editor . . Anne Monastyrski Sports Editor...... . ... Michael Sullivan Viewpoint Editor . . . . . . . . .. Dave Grote Features Editor. . . . . . . . . Mary Healy Photo Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . Pete Laches 
policy, the reason behind the timing of its release and the reasons for the stringency of the policy. 
Second, you must do something con· structive, helpful and vital. Eitht:r refuse to abide by the rules of the policy hy practicing civil disobedience or formulate your own al­cohol policy. 
The committee's name is a misnomer, as is the alcohol policy. Named in accord with its purpose the committee would he properly called the "Committee to Regulate Student Life" and the alcohol policy would be called the "Student Behaviorial Code." 
If the "code" really was an alcohol policy, the committee would have enforced its strictures across the board. The alcohol policy allows alumni and big NO supporters to get drunk at tailgatcrs before football games, while ND students cannot have pre-game get­togethers with more than four pc:oplc in on~ room. 
The "code" dictates how students should 
enjoy life, enjoy their time together and enjoy 
the camraderie of college. Just as parietals in­
fringe upon your right to decide the proper 
course of your relationships, the "code" 
abridges your freedom to choose how you 
want to lead your life on campus. 
But when the dust settles, the administra­tion will have what they wanted and the stu­dents will have nothing. The Grinch will have stolen Christmas. 
Students should organize a committee to 
work on an alcohol policy of their own over 
the summer and present it to the administra­
tion next fall. l~mphasizc alternatives to drink­
ing as a new core of NO social life. Force the 
administration to build a real student center. 
Create different events, like An Tostal, that 
foster responsible drinking. Formulate 
reasonable and fair regulations that satisfy the 
students and the administration. 
Before returning to school next fall, scn­dout a newsletter to every student indicating that a number ofstudents arc going to disobey the rules in the alcohol policy. Ask for the sup­port oft the entire student body. If even a large number of students refuse to follow the al­cohol policy, then you will forn: the llnivcr­sity to take you seriously. The administration 
can't kick everyone out. Remember, they have to make a profit. 
Don'ttake this alcohol policy sitting down. Stand up and do a something about it. Because ifnothing is done, the University will continue to abridge students' freedom to decide how to spend their four years ofcollege. Peter Burrell is a thirdyeargraduate law stu­dent. 
Department Managers 
Business Manager . . ..... Dave Taiclet Controller. . . ....... Maripat Horne Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams 
Founded November 3, 1966 


\TielVP-~O~i~n~t~-----------------------------------------Fn_·d_~~'-A~pr_il_2_7~,1~9-84__-~P~a~~~1~3 
Notre Dame needs a new student center 
The new alcohol policy is here, and it is here to stay. Now is the time to concentrate on the effects this policy will have on campus social life and activities. 
Dean Roemer has stated that certain parts of the new alcohol directives are negotiable. 
Mark Rolfes 
Guest column 

However, these negotiable items concern the method ofenforcement of the policy, not the policy itself. The odds of changing the facets of the policy which affect the NO social life the most are nil. Minor changes in Dean Roemer's directives, such as allowing bars in rooms, will not change the fact that traditional hall parties will cease to be the main form of campus socializing. 
In the past, the administration and the stu­dents have emphasized the dorms as the main center for student life. This undoubtedly will change. It would be unreasonable to expect the dorms to provide activities for their stu­dents every night of the weekend, as it is un­reasonable to expect students to be satisfied with only those activities. A major problem on campus is that there are inadequate facilities on campus to provide for social activities. This is not a new problem; however, it is one that will be intensified by the alcohol policy. 
The campus needs a new student center 
and has needed one for quite some time. 
LaFortune as a student center is considered 
"poor, one of the worst I've seen," according 
to Dr. James McDonnell, director of student 
activities. "The renovations started here last 
summer have certainly helped to improve it, 
but much more needs to be done ...We need 
something much larger and much better." A 
1982 student survey supports this opinion as 
98 percent ofthe students contacted declared 
LaFortune a fair or poor student center, al­though 93 percent said the location would make a good or ideal site for such a facility. We have the good location, but the building is too small and inadequate. 
Another choice spot for a student center is the quad between the Memorial Library and the Pasquerilla dormitories. The open space is there, and the proximity to the library would insure that it would not be out ofstudent traf­fic patterns. 
Now comes the question ofputting the idea into action. First, some past history. The ad­ministration of 1981-2 Student Body Presi­dent Don Murday formed a committee to study the need for a new student center. Senior John Gallagher was a member of that committee. He said the committee traveled to 5 other campuses to examine their student centers, including Villanova and Northwes­tern. A slide presentation and an extensive report on their findings was given to the Board of Trustees. Although lacking specifi­cally what the new student center would be, the committee did cite the need for one, mentioning some important features. While the report was given attention by the Board of Trustees, no action was taken. 

Presently, there is talk of more renovation of LaFortune. Kevin McGovern, student ac­tivities board manager, and Dr. McDonnell both commented on the plans. It seems the consensus of the LaFortune committee on which both men serve will place student businesses in the LaFortune basement. These businesses would include the Irish Gardens, SAPB Ticket Office/Record Store, First Source Travel, University Hairstylists, and a possible new laundromat to service the North Quad. The first floor would remain much the same, although there is a possibility ofexpansion of the Huddle. The second floor may be con­verted into a pizzeria. This potentially could become a new undergraduate club. Construc­tion would involve building a balcony en­compassing the Ballroom. Additional remodeling of Student Government offices has also been discussed. WSND studios would be moved to LaFortune. 
The student center should be a place for recreational facilities as well as student offices and service-related businesses. The piz­z.eria/undergraduate club is the only new ele­ment that students could use for recreational purposes. While this idea has much potential, much more is needed. A new student center cotlld provide all the functions of the renovated LaFortune plus much more. Add a movie theatre, a bowling alley, modern facilities, and we could have an excellant stu­dent center, not a "poor one". 
The question ofwhere the money would be obtained is always raised. James E. Murphy, as­sociate vice-president for public relations, alumni affairs and development (the cheif fundraising department of the University), is not so sure. He stated, "if it became a stated priority of the Officers and the University Trustees, I wouldn't see much problem in raising money for this project." The Univer­sity has a number of priorities at any given time, such as raising the number ofendowed professorships. 
The next step is to convince the major of­ficers of the University that the students need a new student center. This is what student government should concentrate on at this time. Rallies are nice, as is the fight for the esoteric issue of student rights. However, I feel less time should be spent worrying about our image in the national media, and more time should be spent working on a concrete way to enhance student life given the changes in socializing patterns that are the inevitable result ofthis new policy. At the advent ofsuch changes and with the student support and en­thusiasm that is high at the moment, this is the ideal time to push for a new student center. A student center would take two years to become reality, one year for planning, another for building. This assumes the University makes the necessary commentment. This would be a great accomplishment and this is where student government should con­centrate its efforts. 
Mark Rolfes is a senior from Kenilworth, 
II. He has served as Services Commissioner of the Student Union as well as other Student Governmentprojects overthepast twoyears. 
P. 0. BoxQ 

Mixed feelings 
DearEditor: 
I read this week's Observer articles about the controversy over undergraduate con­sumption of alcohol with decidedly mixed feelings. As an undergraduate of the turbulent 1960s, I am somewhat disheartened to realize that only a curtailment of their own most cherished social habits could stir today's stu­dents to protest an administrative policy. 
On the other hand, I believe the under­graduates are probably right to take exception to the University's decision to try to further regulate their drinking habits. 
It has always seemed to me that, Indiana state law notwithstanding, one's college years are inevitably a time when one begins to ex­periment with a variety of new experiences, including, of course, the consumption of al­cohol. 
One of the responsibilities of a university must surely be to encourage students to con· duct such experiments with moderation, compassion and common sense, as well as to learn to make responsible decisions about their own life styles. 
Can such mature independence of mind really be encouraged by moves which seek to further narrow the students' options, or which try increasingly to make basic life deci­sions for them? 
No doubt these latest regulations to curtail undergraduate drinking spring from the most charitable of motives. Still, they strike me as naive and dangerous. Most probably, they will simply drive social drinking off campus, thus increasing the risk of accidents and pushing the handful of problem drinkers even further into their closets. 
Perhaps most regrettably, the new rules will likely encourage a generation of under­graduates already imprisioned in their own passivity to further avoid the risks ofdaring to think and act responsibly for themselves. 
Rev. Isaac McDaniel, O.S.B. 

Operation Brainstorm 
DearEditor: 
On December 15, 1982, I accepted S50 from the Student Union as first prize for the Operation Brainstorm Contest, an event sponsored by the Student Union to generate ideas to improve campus life. 
My idea was for the University to transform the Chautauqua Ballroom into The Under­graduate Club, a non-alcoholic club featuring specialty drinks and the latest in progressive dance music. 
Given the success ofA Chance to Dance, I felt that if the attitude was changed that al­cohol was essential to having a good time, then the root ofsome alcohol abuse problems would be addressed. 
For this idea to work, I felt it was necessary for the University to make a cash expenditure to renovate the ballroom, install bars and in­stall lighting to transform the ballroom into a club that would be open on a regular basis and that would offer students everything a "wet club" would offerexcept what was in the cup. 
The idea was approved by Dr. James McDonnell, director of student activities,and submitted in a proposal for renovations to the student center by Dr. McDonnell to Fr. Tyson on March 3, 1983. Fr. Tyson inturn expressed a great interest in the club, yet to date, no con­crete action has been taken to insure its im­plementation. 
Now that the University has issued its new 
alcohol policy, it cannot fill the void created 
by that policy with more talk concerning 
renovations. It has been two years since The 
Undergraduate Club was proposed. If some­
thing like it were in place today, some of the 
present turmoil would have been avoided. 
Peter Ciotta Senior 
ND temper tantrum 
DearEditor: 
I would like to ask the students protesting the new alcohol policy to take some time and reflect upon the image they are giving the entire student body. I do not agree with the new policy, but the reactions to the policy have been appalling. How can you ask for responsibility by throwing one well-planned temper tantrum? 
The administration can take some of the blame. The new policy could be that Notre Dame will abide by Indiana State Law. No dis­cussions, no strange rules trying to define parties would be needed. The new policy, which reduces the desirability to drink on campus, is still less restrictive. 
What could the response be? Why should Notre Dame be exempt from state law? The students would have the same right to make moral decisions about drinking as the rest of the community. 
Finally, protesters, it's time to pick up your marbles and play with the big boys. Your so­cial life will be as good or as bad as you make it. Please stop giving us a bad name. 
Howard W. Reeves Graduate Student 

No fun on the quad 
DearEditor: 

Okay, so we can't drink anymore; I guess the administration feels that it is their right to restrict that. And yes, parties are also out of the question. They think that these are detrimental to our education, or whatever excuse they have. 
Now, however, even the school property is being restricted from us. This became ap­parent to me last weekend over Easter break. My roommate's family came out to visit, and we enjoyed the company. But the fun of the vacation was abruptly interrupted when we were booted off the north quad for playing a friendly game ofcroquet. 
The security guard told us that a directive by Dean Roemer was issued making further use of the quad illegal for sports. Haven't they gone far enough with their restrictions? I know that the devastation incurred upon the grounds by my roommate's seven younger sis­ters was reason for calling the campus security; we should have went off campus in the first place, I guess. 
Others who were playing frisbee (there weren't many) were also told to leave, but this wouldn't have been the case if the quad was full of students enjoying themselves. Maybe the administration should consider the mud and tire tracks made by their careless grounds crews before they begin blaming us, or is that just the easier solution? 
The inconsistent decisions of the ad­ministration's successively tighter restric-. tions force me to reconsider the values that will eventually exist on this campus. Maybe they could let us think, and act, on our own for a change. 
M.S. Burgoyne Freshman 
Beyond the protest 
DearEditor: 

As a student body, let us step beyond the alcohol issue for a moment. There is a fair question to ask yourself: "Do you feel the uni­versity is improving?" 
For some, the answer may be yes. However, I must answer with an emphatic no. The apathy ofthe students has finally broken in the face of a series ofarbitrary actions on the part of the administration: the exam policy, the handling of foodsales, The Observer con­troversy and most recently the alcohol policy. 
These issues do not point to an administra­tion which is hell-bent on making students' lives miserable, but the issues do point to an administration which is out of.touch and out ofstep with our generation. Somehow in the process oftrying to become a great university, a huge ccommunication gap has developed between students and administrators. 
While Dean Roemer is right to appeal to stu­dents to fight for causes far more important than alcohol, he is wrong to assume there are not major problems on this campus other than alcohol that must addressed. Foremost is the lack ofa healthy social atmosphere. 
The time is long overdue for a social center. I do not mean a glorified LaFortune. Instead, I propose a multi-purpose facility which would include a music and video entertainment area, a recreation floor with pool tables, ping pong, a golfdriving range, a restaurant, an ice cream parlor, shops and a floor set aside for socializ­ing. 
This project would be ambitious to say the least, but I feel it is vital for the future ofNotre Dame. So instead of raising beer cans to the sky, I say we protest and rally until the student center is built. The longer we allow the problem to go unresolved; the more animosity will grow between students and ad­ministrators. We must come together and talk now. 
Patrick M. Gusman Senior 
Looking for students 
Dear Editor: 
I know this is an unusual request and I hope you'll bear with me as you read this. I am a senior accounting major at Western Illinois University in Macomb, II. I was travelling home for spring break on March 17th and due to the adverse road conditions I slid into the ditch off Rt. 80 near Moline, II. 
Two students from Notre Dame -a boy and a girl -stopped to help me. I had no cash with me so they readily offered to pay the tow truck. They were on their way to Colorado to visit friends and gave me a phone number to call in order to get the address to which to send the repayment. 
Unfortunately the number was incorrect. Due to the excitement I don't remember their names. All I remember it that they said they were both seniors and were government majors. 
I would very much like to get in touch with these two. I'm sure you'll agree with me that this act of generosity should not go un· recognized. I would appreciate it very much. Thank you again. 
Danette 
Ifyou are one of those referred to in this letter, you can contact Danette through the Viewpoint Department. 
The Observer (Paid Advertisement) Friday, April 2 7, 1984 -_ page 14~ 
The following is the complete, final report of the Committee on the Responsible Use of Alcohol, as approved by the officers of the University and reviewed by the Board of Trustees. 
Introduction 

The Report, Priori til's and Commitments for Excellence (PACE), submitted to the trustees of the University in May 1983 states: "The Mission of the University of Notre Dame is to he influential in the enrichment of culture, society, and the Church."' Among the four strategies for accomplishing the mission, there is one that states that the mission of tht· Univt.·rsity is fulfilled "through the education of young men and women as concerned and enlightened citizens with a religious, a Christian, and more specifically, a Catholic, sense of values." 
Consistent with Notre Dame's mission is a long-standing tradition which maintains that the education of the student encompasses the whole person. The body and spirit as well as the mind need to be developed for a person to be truly educated. Beyond the classroom and laboratory, residentiallty has been a hallmark of undergraduate education at Notre Dame. Residence hall communities have been the keystone for the liturgical, athletic, and social aspects oflife for the va.•t majority ofour undergraduate students. 

Prior to 1970, the use ofalcohol was prohibited on campus and in all campus buildings by students, regardless of age. Moreover, public intoxication was a serious offense which resulted in discipli­nary sanctions, including suspension in some cases. 
In 1972, the Administration, while acknowledging the Indiana laws concerning the use of alcohol, approved a policy which allowed for the use of alcoholic beverages in the private rooms of students. This policy, with further modifications, remains in effect today. 
In the ensuing years, there has been increasing concern over the abuse of alcohol in American society. The disease of alcoholism, abuse ofalcohol, and alcohol-related traffic fatalities have become a national problem. The statistics concerning growing alcohol use and abuse among young people are alarming and have led to more than twenty states raising the legal drinking age. In addition, a federal law establishing a national drinking age has been proposed. 
Tbe University of Notre Dame ha.• experienced many of the problems present in the nation and among college age young people. While collecting Information for their reports, PACE sub­committees encountered concern regarding student abuse of al­cohol. This concern wa.• raised by administrators, rectors, Counseling and Psychological Services, faculty, and students. Some of th" areas highlighted were the dominant focus of alcohol as a necessity for social activities, public intoxication, drunk driving, violent and destructive behavior, and physical and mental in­capacity. Perhaps most telling wa• the information suggesting that a student attitude currently exists in which drunkenness is con­sidered acceptable. As a result, the PACE Committee recommended that the Provost establish a committee to examine the use and abuse of alcohol, University policies currently governing alcohol, and existing University and hall disciplinary procedures with respect to Its abuse. 
Background Information and Findings of the Committee 
Over the la•t several months the Committee has spent a con­siderable amount oftime and energy gathering relevant information on the usc and abuse of alcohol. This accumlatcd information was collected from various sources both on and off the campus representing a cross-section ofconstituencies involved both direct­ly and indirectly with the college scene at Notre Dame and else­where. The following paragraphs attempt to summarize the facts and impressions that have been gathered from these numerous sources. 
The Nation: 
We have become a country concerned about the role alcohol plays in our society and the impact this has had on our citizens. Groups such as Mothers Against Drunk Driving( M.A.D.D. ), Students Against Drunk Driving (S.A.D.D.) and BACCHUS have become very vocal and have gained national attention for their efforts to reduce alcohol abuse and related deaths. 
A number of states have re-examined their drinking age laws, many of which were enacted when the Constitution was amended in 1971 lowering the voting age to 18. Twenty-nine states responded by lowering their drinking age accordingly. However, largely as a result of the steep increase in the number of alcohol­related traffic accidents, coupled with a desire to reduce the availability of alcohol to teenagers, state legislatures bi'gan revers­ing themselves. Since 1976, more than twenty states have raised their legal drinking age and many more have bills introduced to do the same (The Chronicle oflligber Education, February 9, 1983). Furtht·rmorc, current federal legislation has been proposed that would raise the legal drinking age in the whole country to 21. 
Additionally, states arc also enacting legislation to combat drunk drinking on our nation's highways. jail sentences, loss of drivers' licenses. n·quin·d brcathalyzcr tests, easier evidentiary procedures, unannounced spot checks along th" highways, and other measures an· alnu·d at those who drive while under the influence of alcohol. The message is clear; those who drive after drinking run the risk of sevt·re penalties, including imprisionmcnt. 
Anwricans arc becoming more and more aware ofthe debilitating dfccts of alcohol on family stability, job performance, classroom pt-rli>rmancc, and overall health. There is a general awakening in the country that this issue must be addressed, and colleges and univer­sities art· rt·sponding accordingly. 
llniversities and Colleg.,s: 
Alcohol is the drug ofchoke for students on college and univer­sity campuses throughout tlu· country. Asurv"y ofcollege deans has indicated that 7'\i. to 9'i~ of collt-ge studt·nts throughout the country drink alcohol, and as many as I7.4 ofcollege students drink t"XtTssively. One rtTent poll of students at HO colleges li>und that mort· than two-thirds of all undngraduates also admitted to having driven while intoxicated, and one-third said thev had misst·d classt·s htTaust· ofexcessive drinking (Tbe Wall Street)ounwl, Ft·hruary H, 191-1:\). 
It is generally recognized that college students begin to establish drinking patterns whik Mill in high school, and th"Y olkn n>ntinue to drink while in college, wht·ther tht·y hav" r"achcd the legal drink­ing age or not. Furthermore, drinking tends to escalate once th" stutknts enter college. Frt·edom from parental supervision, the lif­tinj.t of rt·strictions, and the availability of alcohol create and cn­couragt· increast·d alcohol ust·. The usc and ahusc of alcohol is, for many students, part of the initiation rite into adulthood. Introduc­tion to new lifestyles, experimentation, and the desire to be ac­<.<"pled by colleg.-ptocrs allhavc-aq impaq on how, and how mud1, 
alcohol is consumed by college men and women. To many students, 
the drinking of alcohol is integrally associated with the fun and so­
cial life on the college campus. 

Beer and liquor companies recognize the importance of 
"capturing" the college market and invest large sums of money in 
advertising and promotion. As these companies recognize, young 
adults are influenced by alcohol advertisements and sponsored 
events. 

The consumption of alcohol on college campuses across the 
country has led to numerous problems. In varying degrees it is 
responsible for missed classes, dropping grade point averages, 
harassment, vandalism and destruction of campus properties, 
violent behavior and fights between students and others, sexual 
promiscuity, roommate problems, accidents and drunk driving 
deaths. 

Concerns about the above alcohol-related problt:ms on the 
campus and others, as well as th" raising ofthe drinking age in states 
throughout th" country, have led universities and colleges to re­
examine and change the alcohol policies and rules for their institu­
tions. These changes include such things as: ,;trict enforcement of 
already-existing rules; new laws prohibiting alcohol on campus; 
restriction of alcohol usc to those of legal age: and abolishment of 
certain functions at which alcohol abuse is prevalent. In addition, 
colleges and universities arc renewing their efforts in alcohol educa­
tion and awareness programs, as well as developing offices and sup­
port structures to promote alcohol awareness and therapy on the 
campus. Students arc also becoming more actively involved in 
educating and attempting to influence drinking attitudes of, and be­
havior by, their peers, and groups such as BACCHUS and Students 
Against Drunk Driving (S.A.D.D.) are becoming more evident 
throughout the country. 

The Committee has gathered information from colleges and uni­
versities across the country, especially from those schools which 
have recently established new alcohol policies. Documents and 
other data indicate that more programs, stricter rules, and more 
severe sanctions are being implemented. The alcohol issue is being 
addressed directly and forcefully, and significant resources are 
being expended to develop alcohol awareness and counseling 
programs on the campuses. 
Drunkenness: Its Moral Significance 

For young adults in our society the issue ofalcohol use and abuse is particularly problematic. In many instances, the open and public consumption ofalcohol ~ay constitute a rite ofpassage, a display of newly attained independence and freedom relative to the con­straints of family life. Additionally, in student sub-cultures the capacity to drink large quantities of alcohol may be equated with prominence or daring Within peer groups. It is not uncommon for college-age students to declare that there is nothing wrong with beingdrunk as longas one does not do physical damage to oneselfor others. 
In this cultural context it is important for the University to state clearly what drunkenness is and why it is morally offcns,ivc. A com­mon definition of drunkenness is that it is the state of being over­whelmed or overpowered by alcohol to the point of losing control over one's faculties. Such a condition admits ofdegrees, i.e. one may be more or less drunk. In fact, the English language employs a variety ofterms to describe the levels ofpersonal consciousness and behavior that one passes through on the way to being drunk. 
The Christian tradition proscribes drunkenness as a blameworthy condition. In several texts in the New Testament, for example, those who drink alcohol to excess are listed among those who practice pagan vices. Furthermore, on philosophical grounds, drunkenness violates the Christian mandate to exercise rational and informed control over one's decisions and actions. Admittedly, moral guilt should be seen a~ proportionate to the level of distortion of con­sciousness and the extent ofharm to oneselfor others that is caused. Nevertheless, drunkenness has no rightful place in a community of reflective, morally-sensitive individuals. 
In a Christian community such as Notre Dame, those who deliberately and frequently violate the norm of temperate drinking should be subject to severe sanctions. It is not a sufficient excuse to argue that such conduct goes on elsewhere or is seen frequently in this age group. Those who become drunk out of inexperience or only on rare occasions should stili be held accountable for their actions, even though these mitigating factors should be considered in assigning a penalty. There is no compelling evidence that it is necessary to experiment with drunkenness in order to discover its harmful effects. 
The provision of proper information and the concern for social planning can contribute to an environment where, when alcohol is consumed, it is done in moderation and without the consequences of drunkenness and anti-social behavior. Every student should be made familiar with the potential physiological and psychological impact ofvarious quantities ofalcohol in defined social settings and for particular types ofpeople. In particular, it should be stressed that those who entertain bear the responsibility for the wdl-being of their guests. 
Notre Dame and its Environs: 

The problems that confront other colleges and universities regarding alcohol use and abuse also confront the University of Notre Dame. Our students do drink, and the results ofrecent studies suggest that they drink as much as, if not more than, the typical college student across the country. First of all, the student body of the University is composed primarily of young men and women whose family experiences include the usc of alcohol in social set­tings. The vast majority of our students arc R:>man Catholics, and socio-economically they come from middle class and upper class backgrounds. In other words, they come to us from a family and social background that accepts and includes alcohol as a regular part of its social activities. Furthermore, very few students arrive at Notre Dame without having consumed alcohol while they were in highschool. 
Available data suggest that student drinking patterns at Notre Dame lead to the consumption of more alcohol per student than is typical at other colleges and universities. An extensive statistical study at Notre Dame in 1982 indicated that at least 201. and perhaps as many as 25:4 of our students arc heavy drinkers. (Note: Heavy drinking is generally defined by National Council on Alcohol Educa­tion as five or more drinks per sitting at least once a week.) This same study indicates that well over 9'5"/. ofour students drink at least some alcohol. These findings, corraborated by the experience ofthe staff of Counseling and Psychological Services, when compared with the national average given above, indicate the degree to which alcohol has become part of the campus scene at Notre Dame. 
A study done by Saint Mary's College a few years ago can also be helpful in determining the extent ofalcohol usc at Notre Dame. It is generally agreed that much ofthe alcohol consumed by Saint Mary's College women is consumed on the Notre Dame campus. Saint Mary's College found that I5"/. ofits students were heavy drinkers as defined above. This meant that the percentage of heavy drinkers at Saint Mary's was alost four times that of the average for college women nationally ( I 5X vs 4/.). As a result of this data and other information gathered, Saint Mary's College formed its Alcohol Education Council and established strict rules and guidelines regarding alcohol usc on the campus. · 
Considerable pressure is placed upon the Notre Dame students to become part of the alcohol scene from the time they arrive on campus. From the moment they enter as fr.,shmen, they are in­trodun·d to parties and other events at which akohol is a dominant feature. Students have expressed to the Committee their concern about the difficulty ofsocializing at Notre Dame ifone does not wish to drink. Often it is difficult to g"t non-alcoholic beverages at campus parties, either because they arc not served, or, if served, they are not easily accessible. Parties and dances at which alcohol is not served are seldom held, and those that are, run the strong risk of faiJun:. 
' 

Of even more significance than the fact that alcohol is used by almost all of the students at Notre Dame, and used h"avily by a sig­nificant number of them, is the amount of alcohol abuse that takes place on the campus. The Committee is convinced that, as with other student bodies, drunkenness is not condemned by the student body at Notre Dame. Quite the opposite, abusive drinking and public intoxication by a student have become accepted by student peers. Especially among the male students, there is almost the ex­pectation that intoxication will occur. Public intoxication, in and of itself, is not considered a matter for discipline, and little ifany guilt is connected with drunkenness. This is in direct contrast to the situa­tion and expectation placed upon students at this University in thl" past. Drunkenness is a moral issue, and the polides, rules and sam·­tions of the lniversity should relfect that position. 
The residence hall is the primary center of social life for the stu­
dem at Notre Dame. The University's stay-hall policy ha~ led to the 
development ofstrong residence hall identification and loyalty. Fur­
thermore, the interaction of students of all classes togeth"r in one 
hall allows for the possibility ofpc"r example and help coming from 
tht· uppcrclass students, especially to the freshmen. However, the 
party in the residence hail has bco>mc the standard social event on 
the ~·ampus. Wet·kend after weekend students havt· t·ome to expe<"l 
there will be a party in their hall or some otht·r residence hall on the 
campus. The attitude has developed among th" students that ifthere 
is no party to attend, there is nothing to do on the campus. Student 
Union and Student Activities find themselves often frustrated and 
hindered by the current situation in planning and organizing events 

that will take students away from their residence hall parties. 
There are two types ofparties in the residence halls, those occur­
ring in the party room and those occurring in private rooms. AI· 
cobol is a central feature of both of them. The parties in the party 
rooms seem to be the biggest problem. Currently existing party 
room rules are inconsistently enforced across the campus. In fact, it 
seems that they are seldom completely enforced in any residence 
hall. The result is that these parties typically have large numbers of 
unhosted people gathered in very hot rooms, with large quantities 
of alcohol available. The atmosphere is more that ofa tavern than .1 
party. Food in any significant quantity is seldom present, and non­
alcoholic beverages are often either not available or hard to find. In 
addition, there is a constant flow of people in and out of these 
parties, and from party to party across the campus. Furthermore, the: 
problem is compounded by the fact that most ofthose in attendaneo: 
are not of legal drinking age, as these parties are most popular with 
underclassmen. 
The parties in private rooms are on a smaller scale, but often con­tain the same problems as the parry rooms. Generally, the rooms are too small to accommodate the number ofpeople in attendance. 01~ ten two or more rooms go together to host a single party. The results are constant movement from room to room, and people consuming alcohol in public areas of the residence halls. Futhcrmore, thest· private parties are often not "private." General announcementseire· ulate throughout the campus and large numbers of people attend Depending on the weekend, and the hall, a rector may be con· fronted with a number of parties going on at one time throughoUJ: the dormitory, with strangers, some of whom are feeling the effect!; of alcohol, and with a general sense of disorder throughout thr· residence hall. 
On Friday and Saturday evenings, the hall staffs may spend much 
of their time dealing with alcohol-related problems. R.A's havl' 
expressed their surprise at finding how much alcohol was being 
consumed in the hall once they began dealing with it as part ofthci>' 
job. In addition, much ofthe destruction in residence halls and else· 
where on the campus is directly related to alcohol consumption by 
our students. 
Outside the residence halls, there is alcohol being consumed in public areas of campus. Rectors feel some frustration because thcv know that no matter how much they try to keep alcohol out ofth;~ hallways and public areas of the residence hall, they feel there i:; nothing they can do to prevent public drinking outside the <lor· mitory. Students do not generally feel restricted by the current $100 fine because it is seldom imposed. A comparison between th<: Alumni Senior Club at which the legal drinking age is strictly en· forced and the rest of the campus is very telling. Campus security officers feel equally frustrated by the situation on the campus. Wha1: has been created in the minds of some is a 12001-acrc campus on which alcohol flows freely with little restraint, and few enforced rules and regulations. 
There are student events held on the campus at which alcohol i~ served and responsible drinking is the common experience. The best example is the in-hall formal at which alcohol can be served anywhere in the residence hall. However, alcohol is not the primary focus of the event. The students have dates; they.are dressed up; the hall is decorated according to a specific theme; food is served; and the emphasis is on socializing and dancing. In general, these events are very successful and controlled. The same applies to events such asjunior Parents' Weekend. 
The University runs the risk of potential legal liability because of underage people drinking on the campus. Under Indiana law, if a person under the age of21 is drinking on the campus and the lowest level administrator ofthe University ( ie. an R.A.) knows about it, the University may be held liable if that underage person subsequentI} injures another person while driving under the Influence ofalcohol, etc. The only way the University could be completely free ofliabilit} is ifit could show that it was unaware that the underage person was drinking, i.e. that the alcohol was consumed in private without the knowledge ofthe University. That is obviously not the case at partie~ given the current enforcement of University rules. According to the law, it makes no difference that a student did not get drunk on campus. If his or her drinking included drinking on campus in the particular series of events in question, the lhiversity could still be held liable as could any person, including a student over 21. who provided the alcohol for the underage person. Students and many others on the campus are not aware of the potential liability in­volved, and the University should reconsider the extent to which it is willing to assume such potential liability. 
The Counseling and Psychological Services Center is currently providing the bulk of the alcohol education and alcohol counseling at the University. The current program consists of individual counseling, peer groups, outreach programs, confrontation helps, head staff and R.A. training, and the development ofa slide show and written materials. In the current semester, a pilot program is being developed to be included in the freshman physical education n·­quiremcnts. This basic health skills course will deal with topics including drug and alcohol abuse, as well a• other health matters. 
The alcohol counseling program at the University has grown con­siderably over the years hut now may be in need of additional per· sonnet and assistance in planning programs, etc. The Committee recognizes the importance ofthe alcohol awareness and counseling program at the University and strongly supports strengthening and development ofthis area ofthe l.lnivt·rsity to whatever extent neces­sary. 
The issue of alcohol at th" University of Notre Dame cannot bt· viewed in isolation without considering the total campus situation. The University's location in South Bend, Indiana, is significant in determining the ti>cus ofthc social life on the campus. South Bt·nd is not a "college town," and aside from the well-known hars fre­quented by the student body, students percl'iv" few attractions for them in the greater South Bend area. Furthermore, the campus' loca­tion away from the city itself nct·essitates driving to off-campus so­cial events. The availability ofthe "Van Lines" on weekend evenings has helped somewhat, but generally students prefer to stay on campus rather than ride on a s~·hool bus for an extended period of time just to get to a mail, movie, or restaurant. Other events such a., those piann"d by Dean Hofman for freshman (Chicago. Dunes, date nightd. etc.) have been successful ti>r the limited number of stu­dents able to take advantage of them. 
The concentration ofsocial life on the campus, plus the exaggera­tion ofthe residence hall as the center for social life have established the parties in the residence halls as the standard social events of tht· weekend. However, other things hav,e contributed ":here arc ft·w 
The Observer (Paid Advertisement) Friday,April27, 1984-page 15 
places on campus to gather and to meet friends. With the arrival of women on the campus, a need has arisen for places outside the residence hall here men and women can gather to socialize. The LaFortune Student Center does not adequately meet this need. The renovations last summer were steps in the right direction, but LaFortune is still perceived as primarily a place for off-campus stu­dents 10 study. Students do usc the Huddle, but little else in the building attracts thcrtl to it as a student center. The Oak Room in the Sourh Dining Hall has helped, but even that is losing its popularity. 
The Senior-Alumni Club attracts students of legal drinking age. However, there is not an equivalent facility where underclassmen can go to dance, to cat. or merely w socialize. In addition, facilities such a~ LaFortune Ballroom and the faculty dining room in South Dining llall, though available, are not adequately used. Washington Hall has not generally been available to students for movies, and other events, even though it is anticipated this will change in the future. The athletic facilities arc heavily used and improvements such as the new swimming pool will be helpfuL 
There arc some events on the campus away from the residence halls that arc very successful The Keenan Revue, Mardi Gras, An Tostal, and Glee Club concerts arc good examples. Concerts at the Athletic and Convocation Center have enjoyed limited success, as have attempts to start new events like the Fall FestivaL 
In its research, the Committee ha~ heard a number of other ex­planations for the emphasis on alcohol use at Notre Dame. It has been pointed out that our students work very hard in their studies and that alcohol usc is a means of relaxing after the pressure of a busy week. It ha~ also been suggested that the disparity between the numbers of men and women on the campus militate against healthy 
•sodal interchange and encourages alcohol abuse. The Committee ·feels that these matters merit further consideration by the Univcr­. sity. 
There has been much apprehension expres.o;ed to the COmmittee, especially from students and parents, that either eliminating or severely restricting alcohol from the campus will lead to our stu­dents going off campus to party and to drink. As a result, it is more likely they will drive while intoxicated. But the Committee does not a~-ccpt the argument that because of the danger in off-campus al­cohol abuse it is reasonable to allow students to get drunk on the campus. Men and women ofcollege age will drink alcohoL It is the n:sponsibility ofthe University not to close its eyes to alcohol abuse mcruly for the sake of allowing its students to learn through ex­perimentation. Such is not the proper posture for any educational institution. 
The Committee ha~ received input from students, parents, faculty rectors, administrators, counselors, staff, and people not directly part ofthe University. It is clear that there is not consensus among all of these groups, nor even within individual groups, as to what the total solution or direction should Q<·. Alcohol use and abuse at No~re Dame is a very complex is.~uc. The Committee has attempted to balance all of the interests and realities oflife on this campus, many of which directly compete with each other. It is our hope that the policies and rules we propose will help to. create a proper atmos­phere, and a full appreciation for the role that alcohol should play in the life ofour community. 
Recommendations ofthe Committee 
Drunkcnness/Public Intoxications: 
It is the conviction of the University that drunkenness and public intoxication arc unacceptable. Certainly, students in need of counseling and therapy should receive it. However, sanctions should be imposed on those students found intoxi-cared. Mitigating factors such as inexperience and nu:c drin!:ing should be taken into consideration, but all students should be held accountable for their actions. Those who frequently become intoxicated should be severely disciplined. The Committee recommends: 
I. That for the first offense in the academic year the discipline should be the responsibility of the student's rector and should in­clude such things as worK within the residence hall, hall probation, or other appropriate measures. In addition, the student should be informed that subsequent violations will be reported to the Dean of Students. 
2. That aU subsequent violations by the same student should be rcportcd to the Dean of Students, who may in tum also notify the parents of the student involved. In each case, depending upon the circumstances involved, sanctions should be imposed Continued violations should result in suspension from the University. 3. That any fighting. or acts ofphysical violence against hall staff; security, or others while intoxicated should be considered reason for dismissal from the University. 
4. That ifastudent is suspended from the University because of intoxication, or an incident involving intoxication, that student should be allowed to return onlr after tbe University has received suffidcnt evidence of the student's involvement in an alcohol rehabilitation/counseling program while away from the University. 
Public Areas of the Campus: 
The consumption of alcohol should not be allowed in any of the public areas of the C¥Jlpus. This includes, but is not limited to, campus grounds, parking areas, playing fields, stadium, and the public areas of campus buildings. RenewcJ efforts by security to enforce this rule, including the confiscation ofalcohol and issuance of the appropriate fines, should be directed. The Committee recognizes that specific events on the campus warrant exception to the general rule. Therefore, the committee believes the following exceptions should be allowed: 
I. It would almost be impossible to eliminate alcohol at tailgaters on football weekends; therefore, these should be allowed. However, they should be restricted to the day of the game only and should only be allowed in the rarking areas around the stadium and in the outer areas ofthe camp~s. No tailgating and consumption ofalcohol at picnics, etc should be allowed in the inner part of the campus. Security should enforce this and a letter should go out to alumni and all football ticket holders informing those coming to the games of this rule. 
2. Special events during certain times should be allowed if cv<'rybody in attendance is over 21. Prior permission for any such event' should be received from either the Dean ofStudents or some other appropriate central office. {Sec recommendation below regarding Office ofAlcohol Education). 
R~·sidcncc Halls: 
Parties at which alcohol is served should not be allowed in the residence halls. Crowded, semi-anonymous gatherings disrupt the tenor of the hall. create an atmosphere that is the antithesis of the appropriate living environment for an educational institution, and fail tc create ,an· environment that "teaches" students to drink responsibly. In fad, they often encourage alcohol abuse. 
On the other hand, experience has demonstrated that well­planned, all-hall M'mi-formal parties are events th.at create an atmos­phere in which responsible use of alcohol is encouraged. The Committee believes that such events should be continued. Fur­thcrnwre, the Committee recognizes that some consumption of al­cohol by students in th,:, privacy of their rooms is not troublesome. It is the alcohol events that encourage alcohol abuse and disrupt the tenor of the hall that arc condemned. The Committee recommends the following recommendation' be adopted: 
I. Private Rooms in the Residence Halls: 
A. Individuals may consume alcohol in the privacy of student rooms. 
II. No happy hours, parties, or similar events arc allowed in private student rooms. 
The purpose·of the above two rules is that the alcohol is to be consumed in much the same way individuals consume alcohol in their own homes. Appropriate diScipline and sanctions shoud be given should drinking in private rooms become a public evem, ie. by ~he very nature of its noise, the number of people, or intoxica­tion, come to the attention ofthose outside the room. 
C. No kegs are allowed in the residence halls. 

D. Participation in drinkinggames ofany kind is notallowed in the residence halls. 
E. Large amounts ofalcohol are not allowed in private rooms and excessiveamounts ofalcohol may beconfiscated at the discretion of the residence hall stal[ 
II. 
Party Rooms in the Residence Halls: 


A. 
Parties at which alcohol is served in the residence hall party rooms are limited in attendance to those who are of legal drinking age. A member ofthe hall staffor the rector's designate must always be at such parties. 

B. 
Parties at which no alcohol is served are permitted in such rooms for all students. However, it is the rL'Sponsibility of the hall staffto make sure no alcohol is served at such parties. Funhermore, underage students at such parties are not allowed to consume al­cohol in private rooms that then become extensions ofthe party in. the party room. 

C. 
A University-wide set of regulations and contracts governing parties in party rooms must be developed by the Office ofStudent Affairs and should be reviewed by this Committee befOre such rules are implemented These regulations should include such things as: procedure for checking age ofattendants, size ofparty, percentage of money that can be spent on alcohol, type ofalcohol allowed, etc. 

D. 
Prior ;:-ermission for all parties in the party room must be received from the rector of tbe residence hall and should be given only if a written contract is signed indicating the rules governing such parties. It is the responsibility of the hall stallS to enfOrce the rules established by the University for these parties. 


Ill. All-Hall Semi-Formal Date Parties: 

A. Well-planned, all-hall, semi-fOrmal parties at which alcoholic beverages are served are allowed in the residence halls. Beer and wine arc the only alcoholic beverages allowed at such events. No punch is allowed. 
B. A maximum of two such events per hall per semester is allowed. 
C. A University-wide set of regulations governing such semi­formals must be developed by the Office of Student Affairs and should be reviewed by this Committee before such rules arc imple­mented. ln addition to the beer-wine rule stated above, these rules should include such things as: percentage of money that can be spent for alcohol. method of controlling alcohol distribution, re­quirement ofinvoices submitted, etc. 
D. Permission for such party must be received wc;ll in advance of the party date from the Dean of Students or some other central office, and the rector ofthe hall only after assurance is received that such a party ha~ been well-planned and proper precautions are in­cluded in such plan. 
E. It is the responsibility of the hall stallS to enforce the regula­tions <.-stablished by the Uni•·ersity for these parties. 
Alcohol Counseling and Education/Awareness: 

Two counselors in the Counseling and Psychological Services Center are responsible for the majority of alcohol counseling and education at Notre Dame. From small beginnings, this area of the University's counseling program has grown and has become a sig­nificant force in alcohol awareness and alcohol therapy on the campus. However, the Committee believes that further dcvelopent ofalcobol awareness programs and commitment to alcohol educa­tion are needed. As an educational institution, Notre Dame has a responsibility to prepare its students in all aspects.oftiving as a fully human person. Health related programs are a necessary part ofthat <.'ducation process. The Committee senses a need fur more alcohol awareness and development programs on the campus. Fur­thermore, students across the country are becoming involved in alcohol awareness programs. This should be encouraged at Notre 
Dame. 
The Committee recommends: 

I. The continued development of student suppon groups for alcohol-related problems. 
2. 
Acomplete evaluation ofthe alcohol counselingprogram at the University, including a self-evalutaion by those involved in the program and external evaluation to determine if further needs in this area exist at the University. 

3. 
Institution ofa mandatory health awareness component as part ofthe freshman physical education rotation sequence. This rotation should include sections on drug and alcohol use and abuse issues. 

4. 
Organization at Notre Dame of a chapter of a group su~·h as BACCHUS. To establish such a chapter, students must formally or­ganize, elect officers, develop programming. and write a charter. Work on this should begin as soon as possible. (Note: BACCHUS is a national organization organized by collegians that strc~-s the responsible use ofalcohoL Affiliation '11\'ith BACCHUS would provide innumerable resources and programming ideas.) 

5. 
The planning ofstudent development workshops by the Office of Student Affairs that would provide leadership training for stu­dents such as hall and club presidents, Student Senate members, Student Union membel:s, hall councils, etc. Topics in the workshops should include the planning of responsible parties and other social programming within the halls and on the campus. 

6. 
The expansion ofhead staffand R..A. orientation beyond discus­sion ofthe rules and regulations. Asignificant portion ofthe hall staff orientation should be devoted to alcohol-related issues. A commit­ment from hall stallS and consistent appliotion ofan alcohol policy across the campus are imperative if the University is to succeed in making significant change in alcohol use patterns on this campus. 

7. 
Events such a~ Alcohol Awareness Weekand othersuch alcohol awareness progrants should be promoted. 

8. 
There should be communication of these efforts to the faculty, Freshman Ycar ofStudies, Campus Ministry and others involved in student counseling activities. 


Social Life ac Notre Dame: 

The issue of alcohol use on this campus must be considered as part ofthe total social life a£ Notre Dame. The University's isolation, its residential character. the composition of its student body and otherfactors necessitate the development ofa diversified and active campus social life. Campus facilities. campus activities, carupus events, and plans for future development must all be scrutinized and evaluated. This is especially true if there is to be any change in the current exaggerated importance placed upon student residence halls as the center ofsocial life on the campus. 
The Committee recognizes an urgent need for the development and implementation of a comprehensive plan for social life on the· campus. This plan should include both immediate and long-term programs and all aspects of social life at Notre Dame, including facility needs. The effectivenessofthe recommended alcohol policy is contingent upon the implementation ofthis plan. The Committee recommends that the following items be included for consideration in the development ofthis comprehensive plan: 
I. Facility needs -The study should include analysis and recom­mendation regarding renovation and construction of needed facilities on the campus. These include such things as: 
a Renova:ion and/or rebuilding ofLaFortune Student Center. A complete plan should be immediately developed. 
b. Building and/or development of an llndergraduate Club on the campus. The Undergraduate Club would provide a place·for 
l 
men and women to interact in a social atmosphere without the presence ofalcohol It would be a place to meet, to eat, to dance, to watch videos and perfurmances, etc. 
c. Athletic facilities -This studv should consider: further im­provement of athletic facilities, priorities for the use of these facilities. and expansion of co-recreational programs. The Department of Non-Varsity Athletics is key in the de,•elopment 
ofthe study. 
2. Use offacilities currently existing-The study should include recommendations regarding better use of existing facilities for multi-purposes. The Committee believes that the following facilities are currently underutilized: 
a Senior/Alumni Club -This facility should be made more available both for non-alcohol events and private parties. It should be actively"marketed" on the campus as a place available for many different activities both on weekends and during the 
week. 
b. 
Washington Hall -This excellent and ncwlv renovated facility should be made more available for general campus use. 

c. 
Other facilities -The faculty dining room is an excellent facility for parties and'l'linners; student.~ should be made more aware of its availability. The Oak Room is also good, but some imagination is needed to keep student interest at a high enough 


level to usc it. 
3. 
Transponation to the greater South Bend community should be further developed to give students better access to movies, res­taurants. bowling, Morris Civic Theatre, Century Center, shopping. etc. The "Van lines" help to meet this need, but appear inadequate. 

4. 
Development ofimmediate and long-range planningto provide social alternatives on the campus is needed. The Student Activities Office, Student Union and other responsible organizations should be imaginative planners and developers ofa total student social life at the University. Concens, dances. lectures, plays, special events, etc, should be evaluated and developed to better meet tbe needs of the campus community. 

5. 
A study should be undertaken to evaluate coeducation as it exists on the campus, giving particular attention to ways ofimprov­ing social relationships between men and women. The feasibility of more adequately balancing tbe male-female ratio, as well as an ex­amination of Notre Dame's relationship with St. Mary's College should be included in this study. 


Office ofAlcohol Education: 
The Committee recommends that a permanent Office ofAlcohol Education be established at the UnivO£Sity. This office, as part ofthe ., Office ofStudent Affairs. would be responsible for cenain aspects of thealcohol issue at the University. Its responsibilitieswould include such things as: 
1. 
development of alcohol awareness programs and ongoing orientation for hall stallS, etc.; 

2. 
review of alcohol policy and rules, recommending changes when needed; 

3. 
approval ofall "alcohol" functions at the University; 

4. 
development ofguidelines. rules. etc. foe all alcohol events on the campus. 


Other Recommendations: 
1. The Commmittee believes it is imperative that the rules and regulations regarding alcohol be consistently applied throughout the campus. Rectors and their assistants are essential in this regard. The Committee recommends that all head stalfcommit themselves to consistent enforcement ofall rules and regulations as adopted by the University, and be willing to be evaluated fur job perfurmance accordingly. 
' 
i

2. At the current time the llniversity docs not allow beer and 
liquor companies to sponsor events on the campus. There arc fur­I ther rules forbidding posters advertising alcohol and availability of alcohol at campus events. The Committee recommends these rules be continued and reinfOrced on tbe campus. The Committee recommends that noalcohol ortavern advertisementsbe allowed in official University ·publications. The Committee also encourages Tbe Observer and other student publications to adopt such a rule. 
3. 
At the current time, it is the policy of the Freshman Year of Studies that no alcoholic beverages be served at any freshman orientation event. The Committee recommends that this rule be enforced fur all freshman orientation events on the campus. 

4. 
There has been much discussion ofstudent social life moving off campus if strict alcohol rules are adopted The Committee recommends that students off-campus as well as on campus should continue to be require to comport themselves in accordance with standards acceptable for Notre Dame men and women. Large al­cohol parties that disrupt neighborhoods around the campus are inappropriate and not in accord with good citizenship. The Com­mittee recommends that students resonsiblc for such activities be subject to University sanctions as deemed appropriate. 


Implementation: 
While this document represents the final report ofthis Commit­tee, the Committee recognizes that funher rules and regulations in accord with the above recommendations must be formulated by appropriate University officials. Funhermore, presentations and dis­cussions with hall stallS, students and others will likely be necessary for implementation ofa newly adopted alcohol plan for this llniver­sity. The Committee and/or individual members thereof offer to make themselves available for such necessary discussions and help in evaluating proposed rules, etc. to the extent desired by the Provost and Olf'~eers ofthe Universitr. 
Members of the University Committee on The Responsible Use ofAlcohol 
Father E. William Beauchamp Administrative Assistant to the Executive Vice President and Chairman ofthc Committee 
Brian]. Callaghan Student Body President 
Michael S. Carlin Chairman ofthe Hall Presidents Council 
Angie Chamblee Assistant Dean Freshman Year ofStudies 
SisterJohn Miriam jones Associate Provost 
Professor Kenneth W. Milani Associate Professor Department ofAccountancy 
joni D. Neal Assistant Director ofStudent Activities 
Father Mark L Poorman Rector Dillon Hall 
!'ather David T. Tyson Executive &sistant to the·President · 
Friday, April27, 1984-page 16 
Sports Briefs 

For nervous disorder 
Eisenreich placed on disabled list 
TheCollegeOfScienCe Dean's 7K run will be held 
Associated Press tomorrow. April 28, at 9:30a.m. Registration for the race, which will MINNEAPOLIS -Jim Eisenreich follow a course around the lakes, will be in Nieuwland room 229 of the Minnesota Twins was placeduntil today. The S3.50 registration fee includes a T-shirt. -The on the 1 5-day disabled list yesterday
Obsen•L>r 
to undergo treatment for a nervous disorder that has plagued him since he entered major league baseball two years ago. 
"lie had been getting along fine, 
hut he's been very sluggish," said tomorrou•, April 28, at 9:30a.m. Registration is at 8:30a.m. at Stepan 
The An Tostal 5K Charity Run will be held 
Tom Mee, Twins public relations Centt·r, and a $2 fee for charity is requested. For information, call 
director. "lie's been very slow with 
the bat. We feel that the medication ( Eisenreich is currently taking) is not the answer." 
Eisenreich, 25, will undergo treat­Eddie White. assistant sports information director at 
Chris at 87<)6. -The Obsen•er.. 
ment as an out-patient at a Notre Dame, will he the featured reader today at 12 p.m. in the 
Minneapolis-area hospital. The nerv­Shakespeare Marathon on the Fieldhouse Mall. Says White, "I figured 
ous disorder, which causes muscle if Gerry and Digger could do it, then anybody could do it." -The 
twitching and hyperventilation, 
prompted him to temporarily quit baseball last season. "We're going to have him under­go a new course of treatment," said 
Obsen,er 
Mee. "I think it's a therapy type of have a mandatory meeting on Monday, April 30, at 6:30 p.m. at 
The Notre Dame women's golfteam will 
thing." As for the outfielder's return, Corby Hall. The fall schedule will be organized and preparations for 
he said, "We're optimistic, hut we're the match against Evansville on May 5-6 will be made. -The Ob­
far from confident." 
server 
Eisenreich was batting .259 with 27 at-bats, two RBI's and two stolen bases. 
The Twins called up left-handed pitcher Ed Hodge from their Toldeo
A putt-putt golftournamentis being held this 
farm team to replace him. Hodge has Sunday by NVA. You and a partner can sign up by calling NVA at 
a 2-0 record in three starts. 239-6100. Transportation to and from the course will be provided 
Eisenreich got off to a good start free, leaving the library circle at 4 p.m. The golf will be offered at 
as a rookie in 1982, playing well in discount rates. -The Observer 
the field and batting .303 in 34 games. But he was hospitalized in 

Classifieds 
May for treatment of the disorder Mise!, who has treated other ath­
and sat out the rest of the season. letes. 
He tried a brief comeback last Manager Billy Gardner said the year, appearing in only two games team is hopeful that Eisenreich will before he went on the voluntary be able to return to the lineup. retired list May 27. He returned to ''I'm pulling for him," said catcher 
his home in St. Cloud, Minn., about Tim Laudner. "I hope that he can 
65 miles northwest of Minneapolis, make it. Tht· club is behind him. 
and played both amateur baseball "He seems to have all the talent in 
and softball. the world. He can hit, he can run, he 
During the off-seasOJl, he sought can field," said Laudner. "I hope lw help from Chicago hypnotist Harvey keeps battling. lie's a good guy. 
Nothing personal in McKinney dismissal 
Associated Press Sichting was picked on the fourth 
INDIANAPOLIS -Jerry Sichting. round of the I 979 draft by Golden team captain and the oldest of the State but was cut from the team and now-coachless Indiana Pacers, spent a year out of pro basketball knows there was nothing personal in before he was signed by McKinney. the dismissal of Jack McKinney by 
"There were a lot of problems we the National Basketball Association 
had as a team this year that all team. 
couldn't be blamed on Coach "It's part of the business, whether 
McKinney," Sichting said of the you're a player or a coach," says 
Pacers' 26-56 campaign, the worst in Sichting, who signed with the Pacers 
the NBA. as a free agent in 1980, a year after he Pacer President Bob Salyers said was cut loose by the Golden State he has a large list of possible can­
Warriors. 
didates to succeed McKinney, al­
The firing of McKinney, 49, who though the only ones he would had coached the Pacers for four acknowledge are Pacer assistant years, was announced on Wednes­Scotty Robertson and director of day. basketball operations George Irvine. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, aLTepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tbe Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­ters r da . 
HOUSES -Furn1shed, Close to campus $$$Need 2 commence. lix. Call Dan 287-SOCIAL UFE HELD HOST AGE • DAY NOTRE DAME... THIS BUD'S FOR THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR PRAYERS 4-6 Bedrooms. 2 Baths CALL 277 ·3461 6273. 11 YOUIll ANSWERED
LOST/FOUND 
FOR RENT; SUMMER SUB-LETTING NEED GRAD TICS.$$$$. CALL 1610. THIS SITUATION CALLS FOI1t A REAL­PRE PROFESSIONAL SOCIETY ELEC· MENII It's THE social event of the year. FOR TURTLE CREEK APT. NEGO­LV STUPID AND FUTILE GESTURE ... TIONS! LAFORTUNE. MONDAY APRIL MARY MCCOMIS is celebrating her 21 sl TIABLE RATE II CALL 277-8497 HELP NEED AT LEAST TWO GRADUA­30AT 6:00. CALLJUUE AT67981FVOU this Sunday. Come by 321 Lewis and give LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL COURT 

TION TICKETS. CALL283-8933 ... AND WE'RE JUST THE GUYS TO DO CAN'T ATTEND. this wild Wiscons;n woman a birthday4B, GOLD CHAIN WITH NOTRE DAME 
IT. kiSS.
INTRAMURAL MEDAL (SMALL REC­
NEED MANY GRAD TIXI $$$ CALL PREMEDS INTERESTED IN TRAVEL­TANGLE). MEDAL HAS ONLY SEN­
K RETURNING STUDENTS ING TO LOYOLA MED SCHOOL WED. Welcome to womanhood MPFSI Have aTAMENTAL VALUE (AWARDED TO WANTED 
PREPARE FOR THIS SUMMER AND MAY 2 FOR TOUR, LECTURE AND IN· Happy Birthday/love, M2
FATHER IN 1944). KEEP CHAIN BUT GRANDPARENTS TRAVELLING FROM NEXT YEAR FORMATION ON WHAT YOU'RE REAL· PLEASE RETURN MEDAL CALL PAUL HAWAII FOR GRADUATION NEED TIX 272 0746 OR ANN-MARIE 284 5087. DESPERATELY. CALL BILL AT 1079 
PHOENIX BOUND. BUT I NEED A Buy a Quality used car lor less than $175 LV GETTING INTO PLEASE CALL MIKE Mary, Kevin and Steph. KILL 1he MCATs. PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL GET THE MONEY TOGETHER YOUR­AT 277-8370 BY THE 30TH. I know you can do ill Remember you'll be 
AUGUST 11. ANY SUGGESTIONS OR SELF, OR GET YOUR FRIENDS TO free after lommorowl Love, Mary 
Found. black Aspen baseball cap: found need 2 graduation tix. 232-6085 
OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239-PITCH AN TOSTAL KEG TOSS -FRIDAY AT 5313 OR 277·4851 IN TEN BUCKS APIECE, AND SHARE 1 :00 ON GREEN FIELD BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL inMalhbldn.. momingo/4 18;call8330 NEED GADUATION TIX DESPERATE­LVI!I Relatives coming from abroad. Will 
This 69 Mercury runs great. Insure Cheap FINALSIll losl: a Walker Cup 3 ~ron on 9th hole. pis GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED. Transportation CLEVELANDERS: There WILL be a 3:00 BY THE ACC 
pay CA$H!!I Call Greg-3317. call8329 CALL PAUL AT 239·5313 or 277-4851. OFF CAMPUS baggage truck at the end of the year Next Year Walch your mailboxes lor luther details 
$$$Need 2 commence. lix. Call Dan 287­losi:Sel ot keys on brown leather tag w1th GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559 CALL 283-1866 FOR INFO, AND A ATTENTION: IF YOU DIG THE
6273. initials MB" Hfound call4565 $50,553/yr. Now hiring. Your area. Call TEST DRIVE FRISBEE GOLF FEVER: CATCH ITI FEMMES. HAVE WE GOT A DEAL FOR 
1-805-687-6000. Ext R-9834 INSURE FUN FOR NEXT YEAR YOU. THE PROGRESSIVE MUSIC
NEED GRAD TICS $$$$.CALL 1610. LOST: Don·t go DRY," FLOC NIGHT AT THE NAZZII Come hear CLUB IS ORGANIZING A BUS TRIP TO 
LIGHT BLUE NOTRE DAME BOOK Roommate needed to move OC on June 1 go Drive" some campus favorites like John Ken­U. CHICAGO TO SEE THE VIOLENT BAG WITH LEATHER BROWN BOT­Call MIKE 277-6463 nedy, Ora Jones. a womens' barbershop FEMMES SATURDAY. APRIL 28 
HELP NEED AT LEAST TWO GRADUA­

TION TICKETS. CALL 283-8933 TOM FILLED WITH E. E. NOTES IN A 3-tno, and more. Great time and free pop­(THAT'S TOMORROW) THE CON­RING BLACK BINDER. PLEASE Help Wanted -Tutor College graduate Does your roommate JUSt look hke he JUSt mrn, tool Saturday. April 28 from 9-11 CERT STARTS AT 8. WE'LL LEAVE AT
NEED MANY GRAD TIX! $$$ CALL RETURN TO DANNY 1817. NO QUEs­w1th h1gh LSAT score wanted to teach got hit by a sem1 on U.S. 31? II so. grab pm. 6 ALL THOSE WITH SUPEROR MUSI­
KURT AT 234-2252 TIONS ASKEDJJJJJJJ LSAT rev1ew course tor test preparation your penmes, and vole him lor U.M.O.C. CAL TASTE ARE URGED TO CAll BILL 
center. Call272-4135. COME TO FLOC NIGHT AT THE NAZZ!! 11850RPAT1160
NEED 4 GRAD TICKETS. WILL PAY 

LOST· all touch w1th reality. 11found return UMOC, UMOC, UMOC. Oh boy, are ENJOY CAMPUS TALENT, INCLUDING
WHATEVER. CALL RICH AT 288-7446

to Father Beauchamp MUSICIANS your UGLY JOHN KENNEDY, ORA JONES. NOBLE IS THERE ANYBODY OUT THERE? 
5-11 PM. "THE LAW" LEVESQUE. ETC GUITAR, PIANO. LOST; Wallet on Easter. desperalely NO's Hottest Party Band Is looking for I love Mark Boennlghausen's stuff. (I VOICE. IT'S ALL HERE!! SAT, APAIL28 TOFU--TOFUIII DINING HALL need ID and dnvers hcsence It found a talented bau player for the 1984-85 really do.) FROM 9-11 PM. WORKERS UNITE! VOTE FOR TODD please call 1224 year. Call283-3280 lor an audition. OWERS FOR UMOC!I 
NOTICES 

Though paying the surgery bills lor FLOC NIGHT AT THE NAZZII FLOC Lost-Wh1te. square. sp~neless, squ1shy, NEED RIDE TO MARQUETTE THIS UMOC is charitable. all proce<1ds go to NIGHT AT THE NAZZII FLOC NIGHT AT THEODORE SEYMOUR OWERS--­
last seen 1n the North D1ning Hall w1lh col­WEEKEND 4/27 OR 4128 (FRIDAY OR COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE • Sisler Mania's Day School TTHE NAZZ!I SAT, APRIL 28 FROM 9-WITH A NAME LIKE THAT HE HAS TO lar up Answers to name ot TOFU II found SATURDAY)-PLEASE CALL MATT AT 2n-6045. W/p1ck up & deliver 11 PM ENJOY THE TUNES OF ORA BE UGL VI VOTE OWERS FOR UMOC! return to lhe Todd Owers lor UMOC com­277-3378 JENNY AND ARTHUR: BREAI< A LEG­JONES, JOHN KENNEDY. DENNIS 
FOR SALE 
mlltee. Thanks a loll TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082 LANCE ARECHIGA, AND OTHERSIJ ARE YOU GOOD WITH YOUR HANDS? Need a HOUSESITTER lor the summer? In a purely professional sense, olcourse. Found-Flor~da's Ugl1es1 dmmg hall coor­Call Kay or Tric1a. 233-9764. WORDPROCESSING AND TYPING. Don't walt until It's too late! Some Theo Majors -Members of the Theol­If so, you would be considered a worthy dinator TOFU RESUMES. 2n-8827. coupons In Campus Telephone Direc­ogy Forum are Invited to the Eucharist addition to The Observer layout staff. No NEED 1 GRADUATION TICKET'$$! tory expire soon. Burritos/ Sporting which will be celebrated by Fr. Thomas experience is necessary, but enthusiasm LOST ONE NEW PAIR OF PLASTIC CALL RICH AT 234-6496 EXPERT TYPIST 277-8534 AFTER 5:30 goOds! Pinal Newspaper, O'Meara on Sunday, April 29 at 11:30 and a sense of humor are needed. This STETSON TINTED GLASSES IN A 
Eyeglasses/ And morel a.m. In the Badin Hall Chapel. Alter the involves nighltime work. Talent and BLACK CASE IF FOUND PLEASE CALL EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME. Eucharist lunch will be served. potential will skyrocket you ro a pres­283-8933 THESES, TERM PAPERS, ETC. CALL LSAT, GMAT. MCAT looming? For lest tigious paying posllion quickly. Want to MRS. COKER. 233-7009. preparation here in town, its the Stanley BEWARE I TOFU IS COMING/I Nnd outmore? Slop by lhe LaFortune Ob· H. Kaplan Educational Center server office soon tor an application and
FOUND. A contact case was lound mthe~ MINNESOTA CLUB PARTY al Nickies DRY LAND IS coming !!!!!I!! more info.
Eng1neer~ng Aud1tonum before Easter break It IS blue and wh1te and was turned 
Fri. Apri/27, 6-10 pm 21/D Reqwed STEVE DEMARTINO lor UMOC!! FOR SALE FURNITURE. BEDS. BAAS. Class ol 88. prepare lor DRY LAND!!!! WAAH! TOM MOWLE FOR CAMPUSIn aner lhe 11.00 showmg or Everything 
COUCH ETC CALL 233-7885 HAVE YOU PAID YOUR BILL" TODAY? Who s uglier than Voko Ono? STEVE WAILING WALL 
You Wanted to Know About Sex Please 
Come to the New Mall, near LaFortune-­DEMARTINO-Ior UMOCI Lisa
contact Vince Pryor at the Studenl Un1on II you lost them 239-7757 
Great lndge lor sale! Ca/13265. donale your lime to read or your $$ lor When you he like a lump in the middle of Will Joe Greco LOOSEN UP (so to speak) Prof. Milain and family .. the Shakespeare ANTOSTAL'S IRISH WAKE ANTOS­the fioor now thai he's 19? Here's hop1ng--Happy 
BARGAIN: ENGAGEMENT AND WED· Marathon reading. Iii April 29! TAL'S IRISH WAKE THE BIGGEST My desire for you expands more and B•nhday! Beth, Dianne, and Michelle(who LOST WOMAN'S GOLD OVAL-FACED DING RING FOR SALE Contact Garry DANCE OF THE YEAR WILL TAKE more else?!) WATCH WED MOST LIKELY ON THE Rush. 239-7735 
All THE QUAD'S A STAGE-See what PLACE THIS.!!!! SATURDAY NIGHT !!!I II gels out of control as we play T PursUit NORTH QUAD IF FOUND. PLEASE it's about! New Mall. near Lafortune! at Stepan Center lrom 911112 FEATURING As you respond to a question wtth an Dnnker( !). Athlete(?), Lover(?) .Sleeper(!) CALL LISA 6997 Free Sp1r1f 10-speed (excel.cond.) $75 the FAMOUS CHIAGO BAND AAIAN .. answer that's .... Cute! Happy Birthday lo a WELL ROUNDED 
-call Barry 8620. and a D.J.; THE ENTERTAINERS . ON­Then even greater exalement builds as I Dinball Congrals the Sick Individuals Found Keys in Eng1neer1ng Aud. Wed­
LV$2 watch you eat nesday Nile Contact Margare11n the Stu­thtrd made White PENROD'S NORTH 
That sandwich with dent Umon office 
SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND turkey meat IT'S TIME TO DO FLORIDA ONE MORE SHADES SHOATS AND SHADES Bur I wr~fe to you now. 10 beg and to Plea TIME BE THERE SAT NITE WET T­
PERSONALS 
TICKETS 
OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR. 

SHOATS AND SHADES SHOT RTS AND For you to consider gotng to Semor For­SHIRT AT MIDNIGHT SKIN TO WIN CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM U.S. 31 N . ONE SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES mal w1lh me ALOHA BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN 
SHORTS AND SHADES Wilh you be1ng so popular I hope 11's nor L ___F_O_R_R_E_N_T_ ___JI GRANDPARENTS TRAVELLING FROM Shorts and Shades is coming!!!! May 5, too late TO THE JOGGING KISSER...JOKE'S -HAWAII FOR GRADUATION NEED TIX FOR A GIFT THAT IS UNIQUE, SEND A Howard Hall Shorts and Shades Party. Be To secure time w1th you · the Ufttmate ON MEl USA PS. WHO ARE YOU? DESPERATELV. CALL BILL AT 1079 BELLVGRAM TO YOUR SHEIK! PH. there!! Dare WANTED FEMALE ROOMMATE 272-1858 SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND So l1sa. Pleaz dec1de if you'll fill my life CLAIRE. IS THAT AN ICE-CUBE ON 
SUMMER SESSION mce house good need 2 graduation lix. 232-6085 SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES w1lh JOY next Spnng YOUR PIE??? neighborhood Furnished except lor your $$$$$$Beat the rush!! Sell your used SHORTS AND SHADES SHOHTS AND I love you. I love you, Vou·re so Peachy bedroom. 1 1/4 mile from campus $140 NEED GRDUATION TIX DESPERATE-textbook nowll Book buying hours Mon-SHADES SHOATS AND SHADES KEEN! Christina Weinmann Chtisfina w.........., 
Mo & 1/2 of ulilil•es Call Coleen aher 7:00 LVIII Relatives ~m~ngJrorl) ilflr\IBP·Y~iiJ. • ~ J'W~) )Jll'l p~l~ .P.I'~dpr,a ,E~o?k~,9n • , , l>~C?FJT,S f-~'? l>~~~E.S Christln~ Weinm.nn W"!'!!'!!_OU7 lit 234-9970 pay CA$HII! Call Greg-3317. South Bend Ave. · ' • · • · Yollr Deslrer • -• • · IDr•wMkl--------------~ --•' 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------~_j 
The Observer Friday,April27, 1984-page 17 
In more ways than one 

Colts move helps Indianapolis 
NHLPiayoff Summary 
Last Night's Results Montreal4. N.Y.Islanders2 Edmonton 4, Minnesota 3 
Tuesday's Results Montreal3. N.Y. lslandersO Edmonton 7, Minnesota 1 
Tomorrow's Games Montreal at N.Y. Islanders Edmonton at Minnesota 
Tuesday, May 1 Montreal at NY. Islanders Edmonton at Minnesota 
Thursday, May 3 
N. Y Islanders at Montreal (if necessary) Minnesota at Edmonton (if necessary) Saturday, May 5 Montreal at N.Y. Islanders (if necessary) Sunday, May 6 
Edmonton at Minnesota (if necessary) Tuesday, May 8 
N.Y. Islanders at Montreal (if necessary) Minnesota at Edmonton (if necessary) 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The walls of major league baseball's establish­ment must still be reverberating from the stampede of football­crazed fans seeking season tickets for the NFL Colts at the Hoosier Dome. 
"I think 'Naptown' just woke up," says Bob Gildea, public relations director for the Indiana Pro Baseball Committee. 
The alarm clock went offwith the announcement that the Colt front office had already processed more than 150,000 requests for season tickets. The new stadium holds 61,300, and only 57,000 seats will be offered on a season basis. 
The impact of the Colts, who ~oved from Baltimore a month ago, is "definitely a plus because it seems that major league (baseball) owners who may have had a some doubts as to whether Indianapolis was capable of supporting major league sports are really going to have their eyes opened," said Gildea. 
"This should certainly reinforce 
the idea that Indianapolis is a big 
league city and has thousands upon 

Ir----------------,
I  FLOC Night at the Nazz See campus Favorites!!  II  
I Or~ Jones  Women's Barbershop  I  
1 Noble Levesque  John Kennedy  1  
I  Sat., April28 9·11  I  

L------------~---~ 
thousands of people who are in­terested in professional sports." 
This city's overwhelming show of support for the Colts, who have been given "red carpet" treatment from day one, is certainly im­pressive, but Gildea hopes the en­thusiasm doesn't stop, especially when it comes to professional baseball. 
Some people are not happy about how much it would cost -in the neighborhood of $7 million -for reconfiguration of the Hoosier Dome to accommodate baseball. There has been mention of refurbishing Bush Stadium, the 54­year-old facility that is the home of the Indianapolis Indians, the Triple­A farmclub of the Montreal Expos. 
"Bush Stadium is an excellent facility for Triple-A baseball, but the Hoosier Dome is the prestige build­ing that should be the facility to be used for major league baseball," said Max Schumacher, the president and general manager ofthe Indians. 
Gildea added, "Even if you were to modernize Bush Stadium, I don't think it could accommodate the number offans (at least 45,000) that 
"Lawrenooof Arabia" 
winner of 7 Academy Awards 
including Best Picture 
slaningPeter OTooleand OmarSlarif 
Time: Friday, 27that7:00and 10:15p.m. Pia<£ Eng. Aud. Admis!ion: $1.00 

e 
-. 
~ 

A DRAMATIC NEW CONCEP IN SUN TANNING! 
Preserve Your Tan 
'IM-H~ 
sun tonnirg sam 
217-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 

4609 Grape Road Mishawaka Individual dressing rooms and booths for complete privacy 

r
er..r..r...o--..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r.....-..oco--..r..r..r..rJCO""..r..r..r_.oo-...coo--..r...o--...o--..r..r..c,., legacy. 
•
§ AttentIOn: 

J k 
§ R Baggage r u c I Appl•lcat•lons•.
S 

R * "I bl f fh Sf d f
§ Now aval a e a e u en ~ Activities Office 
I in Lafortune S
§
§ * Deadline April 30
8 HU'ft

8 ft':ft\1/
ft' f : 
would be a minimum expectation of the owners. 
"And if you do modernize the stadium, what have you got? An old stadium with a facelift. And I don't 
think we stand much ofa chance o attracting a team if it's going to be with a refurbished Bush Stadium. If we turn away from reconfiguring the dome, I don't think our chances are very hot." 
Others fear that 82 home baseball dates in the summer would take away from the convention business. 
"I can see Indianapolis attracting maybe a half dozen or so conven­tions during the baseball season that would justify using the dome," said Gildea. "But I think that we also should consider the assests that would come to the community. If we could put 20-, 25-, 30-, 40,000 people in that stadium for baseball games, that would have to have some spillover effect on the downtown business interests, too. 
"And I think baseball's economic benefits stack up at least as favorably as the potential of the convention business in the downtown area. And you have to remember that a baseball team is not going to tie up the dome every day from the first of April until the first of October. So there's some flexibility." 
Then there are those who believe a new stadium should be built. 
Mancini dreams of 135-pound legacy 
Associated Press 
Throughout boxing history, the lightweight championship frequent­ly has served as something of a bus stop, a layover point on the road to the welterweight and sometimes even middleweight divisions. 
For Ray "Boom Boom" Mancini, however, the 135-pound title was his dream. It has been his ac­complishment. He wants it to be his 
"I have one small goal," Mancini 
said from his training camp in Lake§Tahoe, Nev., where he is preparing§forhis)un"e I WorldBoxingAssocia-R tion title ~efense against Livingstone § Bramble m Buffalo, N.Y. 
~ "I want to retire with the belt. No ~ lightweight champion has ever done 
~ that. They all either got beat or 
I 
~ moveduptoanotherdivision.Iwant8 to keep the lightweight belt. That 8~ would be nice, to be the first one to do that."S No man was lightweight cham-SS pion longer than Benny Leonard, 
'who ruled the division from May 28, 1917, until Jan. 15, 1925. Then he j retired, undefeated. Six year_s later, 
he returned -as a welterwetght. 
Pre Professional Society Elections 
All those interested in running for office for the Pre Professional Society must meet at 6:00p.m. Monday, April 30, at the information desk in LaFortune. If you can't attend this meeting, call Julie Junkins at 283-6798. 

The isH ere!!! 
Undergraduates can pick up their book on the Stepan Courts Mon. April .30-Thurs. May 3, form 12:005:00 p.m. Must present I D to get your yearbook! ! ! 
l................ll!~!!!ii••··~'!l~ 
L ·-· ___________.!__-O""..r..C CC""..'-Io""...o-"'..r..r..r..r..r...o--...cc--~------------­
· 


Barney Ross, Henry Armstrong, Alexis Arguello all great . h 'gh ki h d
hg twet t ngs -eac move on to the next weight class. So did Roberto Duran and Sugar Ray Leonard, both of whom announced retirements and then returned to the ring. 
"That won't happen with me," pledged Mancini. "I won't get out until the desire is gone. Then, when I do, I won't come back." 
They all say that. But Ray Mancini insists that he means that. 
"Right now, I'm having fun. My heart is in the game. Ifit wasn't fun, I couldn't do it. But it's borrowed time. It won't last forever," he said. 
So Mancini thinks of broadcasting or acting, non-ring activities people have talked about with him. "A year or year-and-a-half ago, ifyou had sug­gested that to me, I'd laugh at you," he said. "Now it could be reality. It 
would be fun to try.". ". ... " _.
_ 
cr~' li3·"":· ,.,,,t..,. J ~·.l~ 'J't'"'='~·t.-2;) 


The Observer Friday, April 27, 1984 -page 18 
Habs, Oilers take 2-0 series leads 

Habs 4, Isles 2 
Associated Press 

MONTREAL -Mats Naslund scored two goals and the Montreal Canadicns grabbed a two gam~s to none lead in the Prince of Wales Conference final with a 4-2 victory over the struggling New York Islan­ders last night. 
Games 3 and 4 of the best-of. seven National Hockey Leaguc semifinal series will be held at Nas.. sau Coliseum in Uniondale:, N.Y., Saturday and Tuesday nights. 

The Islanders rarely showed tlw form that has carried them to four consecutive Stanley Cup titles as they fell behind 2-0 in a playoff series for the first time since 1977. The forward units were disor­ganized all night and the superior speed of the Canadiens, the only team to win five consecutive cham­pionships, led to two goals. 
Naslund's first goal, at 11:24 ofthe second period, gave the Canadiens a 3-1 lead. A power play goal by New York's Denis Potvin later in the period made it 3-2, but Naslund con­nected again 47 seconds into the third period. 
Late in the second session, Potvin was penalized for inadvertently hur­Macri's Deli is hoping for a return trip to the Bookstore finals, ling his stick at linesman Swede but it will be a tough road there. For more on the Bookstore tourna­Knox after a controversial icing call. ment and its conclusion this weekend, see both pages 19 and 24. The penalty carried over into the 
Soviets get 
.~t ·Uit'--...-
.. 
Restaurant and Cocktail Loung 
• Authentic Szechuan and Hunan Tas 
LUNCH SPECIAL Any Combination Plate 
Olympic 

problems 
for only Includes rice, soup, egg roll $26611. fried rice, entree •• and hot tea· · ·

resolved 
Associated Pres.!! 
130DixleWaySouth,South8end 272-7376 
MOSCOW -The Soviet news agency Tass admitted Wednesday that "several fundamental issues were resolved" at a special meeting of United States and Soviet Olympic Committee officials concerning the 

1984 Summer Games at Los Angeles. 
r Celebrate 
In a report from Lausanne, Swit­~ National Farm Worker Week zerland. Tass said that Peter Ueber­roth. president of the Los Angeles ~ FLOC Night at the NAZZ!! ~ Olympic Organizing Committee, and Sovkt Olympic Committee 
1Come hear Campus talent I 
t·hairman Marat Gramov had dis­<.·usscd Soviet allegations of U.S. 

§ Sat., April 28 9-11 p.m. I 
Olympic Chartt·r violations during a spt·dal mt·eting Tuesday. l.....o-.r..r..r..-cr..r.r.,_,..r...o-...o-..r..r..r.r.r_,.r..r.r_,.r..r...cr..r.r...o-.r.r..r.r.r.r.r.r..J. 
"Scvcral fumlamcntal issues were: rt·solvt·d. specifically rdatcd to the: visa-frn· cntry to the llnitcd Statcs by Gamt·s' participants and ac­credilcd journalists to all compcti­
Kitchen StaffApplications 
tion and trammg sites, accommodations. ctc., during the 
for Senior Bar 
pcriod of the: Games and of their 
can be picked up Mon., Tues., Wed. 
preparation, and observance of in­tcrnational regulations with regard 
(April 30 -May 2) in the Student Activities 
to tht· boats anchored in the: port of 
Office of LaFortune
Los Angcles," Tass said. 
Applications due Thurs., May 3 by 5pm 
Tass also said Soviet rcprcscntativcs at the: mceting had dcmandcd that the: Los Angeles 


Olympics Organizing Committee take: stcps to cnsurc the: safety of Olympic athktcs during the: Sum­
Blue-Gold Fans! 
mt·r <iamcs. 
Keep up with the Fighting Irish in 1984 by subscribing
The: Tass rcport did not provide: 
to The Observer now. You'll receive complete coverage of 

any concrete assurance: that the: 
ND sports, as well as news from the campuses of Notre

Sovit-t Union would participate in 
Dame and Saint Mary's.

the: Los Angclcs Gamcs. 
Clip the coupon below and mail today. 

But it appeart·d to indicate that, except for the question of tht· 
Make checks payable lo: The Observer and ma111o: P.O. Box 0 
The Observer 

sccurity of Soviet athlctes, most of 
Noire Dame. IN 46556 
the Krt·mlin's objections to the U.S. handling of the Olympics had been 
PubliShed Monday thJough Fuday 
Enclosed is $30 for one academic year. dumlQ the acactem•c yea•. The Obsente' 
D 
rcsolved. 
•s a v1tal source or mtormallon on peo pie and events m the Notre Oame-Samt 
Enclosed is $20 lor one semester. Mary·s commumly 1 
The statemcnt was a reversal of 
D 
Jom the growmg number of readets I
who have fo.Jnd The Observer an m­Name ____________ 
diSpensable hnk to the two campuses Complete the accompanymg form and 
past Soviet demands that the 
Address_____________

I.AOOC ensure the: security ofSoviet 
mall 11 today to recetve The Obs~t~Yer m your home fOf S20 a semester or SlO for

athletes, and Krcmlin complaints 
Cily _____ Stale ____ Zip _
oaf•JIIyear 
I

that li.S. government officials were 
too involved in Olympic prepara­.____________________._.____________________
Renewal ~ N.D. Graduate Class of__ __ B 

tions. 
third period and Naslund took ad­when Brian Bellows tlipped a back­vantage by poking in a rebound after hand pass into the slot, Steve Payne his first shot went wide of the net tipped it to Broten. who shot it bc­and bounced off the end boards tween Oiler goalie Grant Fuhr's legs. directly back to him. 
Only 2:16 later. Willi Plett whacked home Payne's back-hand
Oilers 4, Stars 3 
feed. EDMONTON, Alberta -Wayne 
Jari Kurri put the Oilers hack onGretzky's third-period goal lifted Ed­top 3-2 with his playoff-leading I I thmonton over Minnesota, 4-3, last goal eight minutes into the period,night, giving the Oilers a 2-0 edge in with Gretzky assisting.
their Stanley Cup semitlnal show­down. 
But Minnesota rallied again when Gretzky nudged in his own 
Payne, st·tting up his third goal in a rebound on a power play with 13:'59 
row. found Bellows open on a remaining to snap a 3-3 tic. 
breakaway, making it 3-3. But 
Edmonton dominatcd the early Gretzky's game-winncr dashcd the going, outshooting the North Stars North Stars' comeback bid. 1'5-'5 in the first period and grabbing a 2-0 lead behind two goals from Less than three minutes into tht· Ken Linseman. final period, Edmonton lost Fuhr 
But Minnesota responded with when Minnsota's Paul Holmgren two goals in the tlrst 2:37 of the Ismacked him against the: post, second period to tie it, 2-2. causing an unspecified arm injury. 
Neal Broten scored on a power Andy Moog replaccd Fuhr and did play just 1 1 seconds into the period not allow a goal. 
"BEN HUR" 
"The superlative adaptation of the Lew Wallace novel, features Charlton Heston and Stephen Boyd as Judah Ben H ur and Messala." Time: Saturday, 28th, 7and 10:45p.m. 
Place: Eng. Aud. Admission: $1.00 


Corktowne Liquors Inc 
1841 South Bend Ave. Beer Specials 
Big Jug 40 oz 8.99 case Old Milwaukee qts 7.59 case Budweiser qts 9.99 case Strohs qts 9.99 case Red White Blue qts 6.99 case Falstaff ret qts 6.49 plus deposit Busch 1f2 Barrel 30.99 Miller 1f2 Barrel 32.99 Goebels 1f2 Barrel 25.99 Strohs 12 oz cans 7.49 Miller 24 bottles 8.69 
Specials good thru 4~1 
.• 
The Observer Friday,April27, 1984-page 19 
continuedfrom page 24 

The 5:15 game on Stepan 1 pitted Shysters against Now or Never, with Shysters coming out on top, 21-15. The game was close for a while, but Shysters turned the game around with a defensive switch. With the score even at five, Shysters gave up on the man-to-man defense that had put the team in foul trouble, and played a zone defense which was
16 Return of Pigbag 

very effective. As the second halfun­folded, Shysters ran away with the game, leaving Now or Never shell­shocked in the face of 21-for-38
Fun Bunch 5 4/28 ACC 5:15 
shooting.
21 
4/26 ST1 6:15
~Boooh5 

Mike Kelley led the way for Shys­
18 Rousseau's... 

ters, hitting seven of his 13 shots from the field and adding a free throw, as his team shot a total of 20­
4/27 BK10 6:15 

for-38 from the field.
Scratch Twice... 
I 23 
4/26 BK9 6:15
Windy City 5 

Jack McLaughlin continued his reign yesterday as the best of The
25 Windy City 5 

Modern Lovers, as he scored eight points for the team which eliminated Return of Pigbag, 21-16. Brian Pelczar sank seven shots for Return of Pigbag, which was unable to keep up with the speedy Lovers. 
Jimmy G and the Spots emerged victorious over Armed and Dan­gerous II in one ofthe longest games of the day. 
With the score 14-8 in favor ofhis team, Rick Naylor of Jimmy G and the Spots dove to save a ball that was headed out ofbounds. Naylor fell in­to the crowd, and junior Carole Wong bore the brunt of his 227 pounds. Play was stopped for ap­proximately 25 minutes to allow an ambulance crew to pick up the injured spectator and take her to SaintJoseph's Medical Center. Wong was examined there for a possible concussion, but tests proyed negative. 
Wong told The Observer last night that she was feeling fine and had recovered from the accident. 
When play resumed, Armed and Dangerous II came on strong for a few minutes, but could not keep the 
'~--''' ':f..s"0~ ~o 
Elite 
continuedfrom page 24 
it through six rounds and all the way from the starting 
point of 512 teams. 
• Macri's Deli -They have to be the favorite until 
· somebody knocks them off Returning three of last year's champion, Macri's Preferred Stock, the top· seeded Macri's picked up Bubba Cunningham and Barry Fay, both of the since disbanded u; team, to replace Dan Absher and Don Strumillo, each of whom were Second Team All-Bookstore selections. The M.V.P. of Bookstore XII, joe Sweeney, leads the Macri's attack, 
1 averaging just under seven points a contest. An excel­lent shooter. Fay adds just over six points per game. Much ofthe Macri's scoring comes offofassists by Cun­ningham, while Larry wculic and Steve Toohill are ex­perts at clearing the boards. The fact that Macri's won thdr sectional final game 21-5 ought to give you some indication of how good they are. 
• 
Fun Bunch 5 -I'd say that if anyone is going to knock Macri's off, it will be Fun Bunch five (they would meet in Saturday's semis if both teams advance today). This team came out of nowhere last year to surprise some people and has certainly earned its way to the Elite Eight this year. In the last two rounds, Fun Bunch has taken care of the highly regarded Corby's Three Reverends of jesse jackson ... and lbusseau's Noble Savages in rather impressive fashion. Fun Bunch has a balanced scoring attack. All five players, Steve Treacy, Greg Dingens, Rick DiBernardo, Tom Rehder, and Pat Collins, have lead Fun Bunch in scoring in at least one game each. Dingens and DiBernardo usually have a field day on the boards. 

•Tequila
White Lightning IV-Certainly a team to watch out for, last year's runner-up lost only one player off that squad, Jeff Ryan. and replaced him with Steve Beuerlein, who was heavily recruited for college bas­


Observer Graphic/Jeff Blumb 
•Jimmy 
G and the Spots -A team that gained a lot ofrespect in the second round by beating the originally seeded Windy City Action, 22-20. they have a decent chance of knocking off Tequila White Lightning IV today. Scott Grooms, an all-star selection in Bookstore XII, is by and far the top gun for Jimmy G. He has lead them in scoring in every one of their games but one en route to scoring a total of 50 points so far. Rick Naylor, Jim Gardner, and Kevin Smith each is capable ofscoring a bunch, too, besides their usual fine rebounding job. 

•Windy 
City 5 -A team that struggled to win yes­terday (in fact they came within a made free throw of losing), Windy City is an impressive team. Their big problem right now is facing the tough Fun Bunch 5 today in "the battle of the fives." Six-foot-nine Ed Hjerpe, Golden Hatchet winner two years ago, works the inside for Windy City. To keep the other team · honest on Hjerpe, assistant basketball coach Jim Baron shoots well and often from the outside. Add that to the excellent penetration moves of)ohn Stein and one Gan see the makings ofa good team. Windy City, in fact, won its second round game .playing with only four guys. If they can win today, Macri's would probably be next, so they will have a tough road to the finals. 

•The 
Modem Lovers-Winners ofthe Boy George (Bi-)Sextional, interestingly enough, The Modern Lovers have been written. off by many a number of times. They have the ability to come from behind, and have done so more than once. This is a team that plays well together. Their style is more to run up and down the court, and, in fact, beat Return of Plgbag yesterday, in large part, because they were able to beat Return down court a number oftimes. Two things work against their chances for the title: somewhat ofa lack ofheight and the fact that they play Mlcri's tonight. Jack McLaughlin and Pete Graham do the majority of Modern Lovers scoring. 


So there you have it folks. The Elite Eight. Any one of these teams may well emerge as Bookstore XIII Cham­pions by around 4 p.m. Sunday. No matter which team it is, though, we are assured of seeing some of the finest basketball around over the c.ourse of the next few days. 

ketball. Point guard Lou Nanni is the Tequila catalyst, ~------------------------1 
who, it seems. plays his best basketball in Bookstore. 
Brian Enright, last year's Golden Hatchet Award winner, 
and Mike Conlin contribute heavily in both the scoring 
and rebounding columns. Daane Spiel maker rounds out 
a more than formidable front line, while Beuerlein is a dead-eye from outside. To their advantage. they would not have to go up against either Macri's or Fun Bunch until the finals. 
•Brick Throwers -An annual challenger for the crown. the Brick Throwers could be the stumbling block in Tequila's quest for a return to the finals. Greg Russell and Bob Michael do the majority of Brick Thrower scoring. Michael is the leader. shooting 46-70 so far in the tournament. Russell has a 7-7 shooting per­formance in one game and is 57-54 for the tourney. 
Dana Hovig is the general on the court for Brick Throwers. Brick Throwers were ousted from last year's tournament in the quarterfinals and will be trying to avoid a similiar fate today against Shysters. 
•Shysters -Brick Throwers will certa"inly get a good game from this seed in the original tournament bracketing. Representing the law school, Shysters has had an easier time than some in getting this far. Mike Kellev and former Irish defensive end Kevin Griffith do the h~lk of Shysters' scoring. Griffith, who has the dis­tinction of holding the all-time lbokstore record for best shooting percentage-most shots in one game ( Il­l! last year). has lead or co-lead Shysters in scoring in three of their six games so far. Kelley has done the same in fiJUr of the Shysters' games. Today is a big test for them. If they can get by Brick Throwers, then who knows? 
,· •·.·.· 
Women's Bookstore Pairings 
Yesterday's Results 
Stepan6 
Oreo Dynasty .Worse Than Bad over Hell s Belles by 14 Princess Bookstore over Holy Cross Polo Club by 15 
Stepan 7 
Seventh Heaven over Boss Betty"s by 6 Pneumothorax over Athlettc Annex 15 The Last Shot over The P T s Or 4 Guards & a 
Center by 11 
Stepan a 
Nolo Contendre over Mrs. Olsen & the Coffee Ac· 
h1evers by 15 4 Assets & 1 L1ability over Footloose by 13 Assorted Nuts over Oh, That's A Good Name by 7 
Today's Games 
Stepan I 
4.00 -Oreo Dynasty .Worse Than Blood v 
Seventh Heaven 5 00-Princess Bookstore v. Assorted Nuts 
Stepan 3 
4 00-Pneumothorax v 4 Assets & a Liability 5.00-Nolo Contendre v The Last Shot 

Sweet 
spurt going, eventually losing by four. Scott Grooms hit 7-of-12 for the winners, while Rick Louthan of 
Armed and Dangerous II bowed out ofthe tournament with six points on 12 shots. 
In one of the early games on the Bookstore courts, Brick Throwers downed Ed Smierciak and Four 
Other Guys That Are Better Than john Paxson, 21-15. Bob Michael paced Brick Throwers with nine points on 6-of-1 1 shooting from the field and 3-of-5 from the charity stripe. 
Macri's Deli was the winner in the other 5:15 game on the Bookstore courts, as Anyplace, Anytime fell vic­tim to the defending Bookstore champions, 21-14. Barry Fay led Macri's to the victory with 8-for-12 shooting. 
Today, the Elite Eight will be vying for spots in tomorrow's semi­finals behind the ACC. All of the games this afternoon will be played on the Bookstore courts. 
On Bookstore 9 at 5:15p.m., The Modern Lovers will go up against Macri's Deli, followed at 6:15p.m. by Tequila White Lightning IV against jimmy G and the Spots. 
Meanwhile, Shysters takes on Brick Throwers at 5:15 p.m. on Bookstore 10, and Fun Bunch Five and Windy City Five will meet at 
6:1 5 p.m. on that court. 
The Final Four will advance to the championship round in the ACC parking lot tomorrow afternoon. 
The winner of the Macri's Deli and The Modern Lovers matchup will take on the winner of Fun Bunch Five and Windy City Five at 5:15 p.m. 
The second game; at 6:15 p.m., will pit the winners of the games be­tween Tequila White Lightning IV­Jimmmy G and the Spots, and Shysters-Brick Throwers. 
The championship game will be held Sunday afternoon at 3 p.m. be­hind the ACC, and an awards ceremony will follow immediately after the Bookstore XIII champion is crowned. 
The Bookstore Basketball addict also may wanr to see the Bookstore North-South all-star game at 2 p.m. Sunday, after which the finals will follow. 
Bookstore Finals  
1972  The Family 21, Hawks and Geese 1  
1973  The 31 Club 21, Badin Exiles 19  
1974  Ducks 21, Club 31 II 17  
1975  Club 31 III 21, Average White  

Team 18 1976-TILCS III 22, Average White Team20 1977 -TILCS IV 21, Average White Team 17 1978-Leo's Last 21, Chumps Too 18 1979 Chumps Three 21, The Butchers 19 1980 Defending Chumps 21, Strappamasquon and the Combat Wombats 11 1981 Reclassified 'Nads 22, TPS 20 1982 Full House 21, Eddie O'Rourke and the Travelling Stragglers 17 1983 -Macri's Preferred Stock 21, Tequila White Lightning 15 
r---------~ 
The Observer Sports Extra -The Blue-Gold Game Friday, April 27, 1984 -page 20 
. 

1984: The Year in Preview 
The Irish, in Gerry Faust's·fourth year, will try to reverse trend of past three years, but opponents could make life difficult 
By LOUIE SOMOGYI 
Sports Writer 
For the past three years, the Notre Dame football season 
has followed a very similar pattern. 
first, there's the sterling opening game victory (LSlJ in 
19HI, Michigan in 19H2, and Purdue last year) that im­
mt:diately leads to talks ofa national championship. 
Next comes the losses or the lackluster performances 
against teams that fans feel have no business being on the 
same field as the Irish -Purdue in 1981, Oregon in 1982, 
and Michigan State last year. The poor showings annually 
raise the question of"What's wrong with Notre Dame?" 
throughout the nation. 
Next, there is a stage of revival around mid-season that 
has people believing and hoping that Notre Dame is back 
and ready to move out from its mediocrity. 
finally, though, there's the collapse at the end of the 
regular season -losing the final two games in 1981 and 
the final three games the last two years-that leaves a sour 
taste in the mouths of Notre Dame fans and players. 
What has made the last three years even more difficult to 
swallow is that a national championship was not an un­
reasonable expectation in any ofthe three years. Yet, in 
those same three years, the Irish have failed even to crack 
the 11nal Top Twenty polls, only managing to make a trip to 
the downgraded Liberty Bowl on its name. 
But that 19-18 victory over a great Roston College team 
last December in Memphis was "the beginning ofsome­
thing great," prophesizcs Notre Damt.· Head Coach Gerry 
faust. 
According to The .~Jmrting News, which ranked Notre 
Dame No. I in last st.·ason's pre-season issue, a No. 13 
ranking is "great" enough for this year's team despite the 
contention by the magazine'sjohn !Iadley that the Irish 
once again arc the best team in the nation on paper. 
Tht: schedule for nt.·xt year's squad will be a very excit­
ing one as wdl as a quitt.· chalknging one:. Besides playing 
the national champions of the past two years in Miami 
(Fla. ) and Pt.·nn Statt.· at home, the Irish will play at some of 
the most diftkult plan·s in the nation ti>r opposing teams, 
including Spartan Stadium at Michigan State, Faurot Field at 
Missouri, Tiger Stadium at LSU, and the Los Angeles 
ColiSt·um at !ISC. 
Ikrc's a look at the l9H4 Notre Damt.· football schedule: 
PURDUE at Indianapolis-Not only will this become 
the inaugural game for tht.· ncwly-constreted lloosicr 
Domt.·, hut it's possibk that the game may be moved from 
Sept. 8 to Sept. I in ordt.·r to ac.:c.:omodatc national televi­
sion for a big Labor Day weekend. 
Purdue undoubtt.·dly would like to settle a score with tht.· Irish after last year's 'i2-6 opening game shellacking at West I.afyette. hut it's unlikely that it will. The Roiler­makt.·rs football program has been under hard times the past ft.·w yt.·ars. After a 5-H campaign in 19H2, Purdue went 3-7-l last year. 
The: offensive: lint· will be a major strength for the team, hut the oft(:nse loses three-year starting quarterback Scott Campbdl, tailback Mel Gray, who led the team in rushing the past two st.·asons, and All-Big 10 tight end <lift. Benson. Jt.·ff Price, though, is a top-notch receiver and Rodney Car­ter may develop in a fine running back. Jim Everett, who completed 12-of-21 passes for 183 yards against the Irish last year in a relief role, would seem to be the heir to .. Campbell. 
The defense may still be hurting badly. Eight times last year the unit yielded 30 or more points to the opposition, and it gave up 29 points in another game. Only one senior may start for the defense that will bt.· kd by defensive back Rod Woodson, who made many freshman all-American tt.·ams last year. The re<:ruiting year wasn't regarded as very good either. so it may be another rough year for third-year head coach Leon Burtnett. 
MICHIGAN STATE at East Lansing-Seven offensive starters and dght defensive first-stringers return for George Pcrlcs' second dub. Perks, who has four Super Bowl rings to his crnlit while serving as defensive coor­dinator and assistant head coach for the Pittsburgh Stt.·ekrs, gave: some respectability back to tht.· program that wt.·nt 2-9 in l9H2 by leading his squad to a 28-23 victory over the highly-favored Irish in Notre Dame Stadium last September. 
Although it loses All-American Carl Ranks at linebacker, 
the defense is expected to be very solid with all four start­
ers returning in the front linc,Jamcs Morrissey and Derek 
Bunch at linebacker, and Phil Parker, who intercepted two 
Irish passes last year, rejoining Lonnie Young in the secon­
dary. 
The offense also looks like it will he solid and ex­perienced. Dave Yarema returns at quarterback after tossing three touchdown passes against Notre Dame last yt·ar. The offense was never really the same without him af­ter he was sidelined in the third game ofthe season last year. One ofhis targets includes tight end futch Rolle, who 
l'aught the winning touchdown pass against the Irish last year. 
Another worry is All-American punter and placekicker Ralf Mojsicjt.·nko. Mojsiejenko was the key in last year's vic­tory as he consistently kept Notre Dame bottled up deep in its own territory by avt-raging 49 yards on his nine punts. 

The Spartans have lost seven straight games to the Irish at Spartan Stadium since 1970, but they just may have the talent and confidence to end that streak this year. 
COLORADO at Notre Dame -Third-year head coach Bill McCartney will have his work cut out for him again this year. While there are some fine individual players for each of the units -especially at the linebacker positions ­there is too much inexperience on the whole to expect too much improvement from last year's 4-7 record. 
The offense has the potential to give the oppos1ition fits, but the defense, which ranked ncar the bottom nationally the last couple ofyears, must improve dramatically. Colorado gave up an average of 31 points a game last year. The Irish simply did whatever they wanted last year against the Buffaloes as they rolled up 494 yards in a 27-3 victory. Ifthe Irish don't have any letdowns, they should be 3-0 af­ter this game. 
MISSOURI at Columbia -Forty-one lettermen return from Warren Powers' 7-S squad of 1983. The victories in­cluded a 28-18 defeat of Big Ten champion Illinois and a 10-0 shutout ofOklahoma. Although the season ended with a heartbreaking loss to Brigham Young in the Holiday Bowl, optimism abounds for last year's second-place finis­hers in the Big Eight. Three national publications -Foot­ballNews, The Sporting News, and USA Today -are projecting the 1984 Tigers among the nation's top twenty teams in preseason forecasts. 
"I think we've got a football team and a program that is getting closer to not just being a challenger, but to being a champion," says Powers. 
The defense which shut out Oklahoma last year will be especially solid with seven starters returning. The of­fensive line may be somewhat inexperienced but there is very good taknt at the skill positions with Marlon Adler at quarterback, the team's top seven rushers of I983 in the backfield, and leading receiver George Shorthosc. 
MIAMI at Notre Dame -The defending national cham­pions face an unhelicvahlc schedule that may just burn them out -or make them awesome -by the time they come to South Bend. On August 27, they face Auburn in the IIall ofFame game. Five days later they play Horida-a28­5 conquerer ofthe Hurricanes in the season openn last year. The next week they travel to Ann Arbor to play Michi­gan. After playing at Purdue the ti.JIIowing week, the Hur­ricanes will take on Ilorida State and Boston Collegt.·. Then come the Irish who should he very anxious to avenge last year's 20-0 trouncing and the verbal abuse that tht:y took from the Hurricanes. 
But, as the nation learned last year, never underestimate the capabilities of Howard Schndlenberger and &:rnie Kosar. 
The offense might he even more spectacular this year. Kosar has his entire starting offensive line (not including the tight end) returning as well as two outstanding wide receivers in Stanley Shakespear~ and Ed Brown. Look for sophomore Alonzo Highsmith, who scored what proved to be the game-wirtning touchdown against Nebraska in the Orange Bowl, to lead the rushing attack. 
The defense loses seven starters, including nose guard Tony Fitzpatrick and linebackerJay Brophy. End Julio Cortes, tackle Kevin Fagan, and safety Reggie Sutton, though, are ready, once again, to help make the Hurricane defense one of the best in the nation. 
AIR FORCE at Notre Dame -Ken Hatfield has moved on to Arkansas after a spectacular rebuilding job at Air Force. The Falcons had their greatest season ever last year by posting a I0-2 record, stunning Notre Dame for the second year in a row, and winning their second bowl game in a row. Fisher DeBerry, the offensive coordinator for the last three years who impkmented the explosive wishbone attack at Air Force, will try and continue the resurgence that the Falcon program has experienced the last rwo seasons. 
Beating Notre Dame for a third year in a row may just be too tall an order for the outmanned but gutsy Air Force crew. The task will be made even more difficult with the losses ofquarterback Marty Louthan, fullback John Kershner. and wide receiver Mike Kirby. Five startt:rs do return on offense led by halfback Mike Brown. Brown gained 776 yards last year, including a 146-yard effort against Notre Dame, and averaged an amazing 8. 5 yards a carry for the season. Tackle Chris Funk is one offive start­ers returning on defense. It was Funk who blocked two Mike Johnston field-goal attempts last year to preserve the 23-22 win for the Falcons. 
SOUTH CAROLINA at Notre lllme -The Gamecocks were expected to give the Irish a very difficult challenge last year at Columbia, but Notre Dame put to­gether perhaps its best overall effort ofthe season in a 30-6 triumph. Nevertheless, its 38-14 blasting ofSouthern Gil last year is a reflection ofhow dangerous this club can be when it has it together. Head G>ach)oc Morrison did well to lead the Gamecocks to a S-6 record in his first season at USC during a rebuilding phase against a tough schedule. 
The offense returns eight starters and is headed by halfback Thomas Dendy who gained 725 yards last year and averaged S.S yards a carry. Seven starters return on defense. This is a team with upset possibilities like Michi­gan State last season. 
LSU at Baton ft)lJgc -This may very well be the· most difficult game ofthe season for the Irish. No stadium in the land gets louder than Tiger Stadium which will undoubted­ly surpass its 76,072 capacity for this game. Sales for "Go to Hell Notre Dame" bumper stickers and buttons this week in Bayou country will make sales ofCabbage Patch dolls last Christmas look anemic. ­
The Tigas arc very talented, too. Last year they were a major disappointment as they were 4-7 after an 8-3-1 record and an Orange Bowl appearance the previous season. Hence, Head Coach Jerry Stovall was fired and replaced by Bill Arnsparger. Arnspargcr, ofcourse, was the defensive coordinator for so many ofthe great Miami Dol­phin defenses of the 1970's and '80's. 
Arnspargcr, one of the pioneers of the 3-4 defensive alignment, will implement the 3-4 for the Tigers in place of the S-2 in an attempt to improve the defense. The talent will be there as eight starters return on the defensive unit, including preseasonPlayboy All-America Liffort Hopley at the free-safety position. 
The offense is also loaded and explosive as eight starters return from last year. Dalton Hilliard and GaryJames form perhaps the nation's best one-two punch at tailback. They 

Captain Larry Williams 
have combined for over 2,800 yards rushing the past two years and 30 touchdowns.JeffWickersham returns at quar­terback after completing 57 percent ofhis passes last year for over 2,500 yards. Eric Martin returns at split end after catching 52 passes last year for an average of 20.5 yards a reception en route to making The Sporting News All­America team. 
"Wc intend to shoot for the moon," says Arnsparger of the prospectus for 1984. "Ifwe don't make it then I know we'll at least be among the stars." 
Navy at East Rutherford -Along with Auburn's Bo Jackson and Notre Dame's Allen Pinkett, Navy's Napoleon McCallum rounds out college football's 1984 version of "The Big Three" at the tailback position. McCallum was the nation's leader last year in all-purpose yardage, and leads an offense that will returns seven starters from last year. The defense loses All-American linebacker Andy Ponscigo and six other starters. Sandwiched between LSU, Penn State, and Southern Cal, the Middies can only hope that the Irish will be caught in a letdown. The Irish have won 21 straight over Navy, but Navy Head Coach Gary Tranquil still believes that one ofthese days his team will catch the Irish asleep. 
PENN STATE at Notre Dame-For three straight years, Penn State has played a major part in Notre Dame's late-season woes by coming back in the fourth quarter to defeat the Irish. After an 0-3 start last year, the Nittany Uons went 8-1-1 in their final 10 games and won the Aloha Bowl against Washington. 
Quarterback Doug Strang became a top-flight quarter­back by the end of the year after a slow start. Strang shredded the Irish secondary last fall, but his task will be more difficult this year with the loss ofhis two top receivers -All-America Kenny Jackson and Kevin Haugh. 
• 

The Observer Sports Extra -The Blue-Gold Game Friday, April27, 1984-page 21 

Last year's freshman sensation, D.]. Dozier returns to give Penn State a potent rushing attack. The offensive line led by Stan Short will be one of the team's strength. 
Oetemivelv. Penn State cannot allow 257 passing yards by Stevc Beu~rlein, and 21 7 rushing yards hy Allen Pinkett as it did last year and expect to still come through with a win. Strongsafety Dan Zordich heads a defense that returns six starters from last year. Expect this game to come down to the final minutes once again. 
SOUTHERN CAL at Los Angeles -One ofthe biggest disappointments of the 1983 campaign. Expected as usual to be one ofthe nation's powerhouses, the Trojans faltered badly to a 4-6-1 record in Ted Tollner's first year at the helm. 
'We'rc coming back in 1984 with a vengeance," 
promises Tollner. 
With nine starters returning on offense and eight on defense. the Trojans may do just that. Add to that the in­centive ofhcing able to go to a howl game again after a two­year NCAA han. and things are looking up in 1984 for the Men ofTrm·. 
No one t-'~m ever say that the talent is short at USC. Lom­bardi Award candidate Jack Del Rio will !cad the defense along with fellow outside linebacker Duane Bickett. Sean Salishurv returns to quarterback the Trojans for the third straight .year. and last year's leading rusher. ~red Crutcher, is also back. Ryan Knight. who was regarded in many circles a~ the top prep running hack in the nation. may make a na111e for himself before the year is ovcr. The real story. though. is the improvement in the offensive line. The Trojans started a freshman. two sophomores, and a junior there last year and often got burned because of the inex­perience. The line is now bigger, stronger, and more ex­perienced. and Tollnerexpects it to he the dominant force this vear as it has been in the past for the Trojans. 
..\\·e have excellent ability and should have a very re­spectahlc team." says Toliner. "But until we prove it on the field, there will be a question mark next to our name. 
"We let a high standard ofexcellcnce slip last year. so we're anxious to rc-establish that standard. That challenge and the prospect ofgoing to a bowl again have creatcd a much more contldent atmosphere. We played down the ef­fects of the probation the last two years. but its a tremen­dous boost to know it is behind us now." 
Injured captain Mike Golic 
Gold 
continuedfrom page 24 
tion that Steve will start, and there's no ifs. ands. or huts about it." This will mark the second straight year that a quarterback has been installed as the choice for a starter in the fall. 
The hackup battle has been a duel between S<:ott Grooms and Joe Felitsky. "At this point, Grooms would he our backup." says Faust. "But we can't account for what will happen in the fall." There will be four freshmen entering in the fall who played quarterback in high school. and. with what transpired last fall. it is evident that almost any­thing can happen. 
Running Backs A very familiar face was missing from the running repetoire this spring. Allen Pinkett viewed most of the action from the sidelincs as Irish coaches tried to determine who would be the No. 2 tailback. The coaches were guarding against injuring Pinkett's tender knce. on which he under­went arthoscopic surgery earlier this week. Pinkett. who carried the 
Steve Beuerlein 
ball on nearly 50 percent of the Notre Dame running plays in 1983, was used sparingly and ended up doing most of his work catching the ball on pass patterns. 
Early in the spring, it appeared that Alonzo jefferson and Hiawatha Francisco wouldbe in contention for that spot. However. Francisco was moved into the defensive secondary last week and Jefferson emerged as the person to fit the role. "We think Jefferson is going to be a real good tailback," Faust states. "He made a great pitch to be the second tailback hy the way he has performed." 
Lester Flemons and Byron Abraham have both been improving and will provide good depth at tail­hack. 
The fullback position is. as it has been for the last three years, th sub­ject ofa see-saw battle between two talented players. Mark Brooks and Chris Smith take turns pushing each other to perform up to their poten­tial. "We have a really healthy situa­tion at fullback because they're both real compctitors," says Faust. "Behind those two, Tom Monahan has been having such a good spring that we'll take a closer look at him in the fall." 
Receivers -Three names arc worthy of mention here: Alvin Mil­ler, Milt Jackson. and joe Howard. The receiving corps have been somewhat dcpleted by the defensive secondary's acquisition of much of its depth. jackson had 23 catches last season, tied for third on the team-in 1983. Miller burst on to the scene during the last half of the year and has shown a lot of promise during tJ:le spring. 
"We'repretty well set on the top three receivers." notes Faust. "We would likc to gct a little more depth in the fall, and we feel we can get it from the two freshmen and people like Pat Cusack and Mike Richer­son." 
Faust has also likcd what he saw of Joe Howard, although Howard did not practice with the team until after the basketball team came back from the NIT. "Joe has had a heck of a spring coming off ofbasketball." 
Tight Ends -This is another category that will not be a problem for the Irish, barring an injury. Mark Bavaro has proven himself time and again that he is a real "gamer" by consistently making a big play in a crucial situation. Bavaro is a bruising runncr after he gets the ball in his suitcase hands, and has shown his proficiency at blocking as well. 

Ricky Gray and joel Williams oc­cupy the next spots down. Gray has been improving, according to Faust, and Williams is coming closer to his potential. Todd Lezon has exhibited his flexibility by performing well there, also. 
Linemen -Although injuries for the last two years have made these positions as hard to hold onto as a greased pig, the first-team slots are solid, with Mike Kelley at center, Larry Williams and Mike Perrino (who is sitting out of the Blue-Gold game because of a shoulder injury) on the strong side, and Tim Scannell and Tom Doerger on the quick side. Ron Plantz could replace Doerger in the fall, but right now Doerger has 

Pat Ballage 
the job. 

"Some of our younger linemen have made vast improvements, but we still have a long way to go," Faust says. "Depth on the offensive line is still a big concern." 
Secondary -With the loss of two starters and two top reserves in the secondary, this part of the defense underwent a major revamp­ing in the spring with many different players trying to claim the vacant slots. 
The only sure bet to start in the secondary is safety joeJohnson. The hard-hittingjohnson hcads the list of eight players that Faust cxpects will be challenging each other for playing time in the fall. Pat Ballage also returns and has lost ten pounds, dramatically helping his quickness. 
The one transfer who gets hts name mentioned most often is Mike Haywood. Haywood has bee11 doing well by Faust's assessment and is par­ticularly valuable because of his speed. 
Troy Wilson and Steve Lawrence, two freshmen who performed well last season after they had a little ex­perience, are continuing their progression towards being solid players. james Bobb and Marv Spence are also in contention for some playing time. 
"We're going to be a young secon­dary," notes Faust. "I think that we'll be a better secondary, also. The big thing that we wanted to find the best people available to play in the secon­dary, and we think we've got them." 
Mark Bavaro 
Linebackers -Over thc years a forte of thc Irish defense, 1984 may be a season that ranks up with thc best of them for the linebackers. At both the inside and outside posi­tions talent is abundant and ex­perience is only a notch below that. 
The inside spots will most likely be filled by Mike Kovaleski and Tony Furjanic. last season's regulars. In­juries are of particular concern at these positions, Faust notes. Even Kovaleski. who got his chance to play because of an injury to Mike Larkin, sustained an injury toward the end ofthe ycar. 
"Since this is a high risk position 
for injuries, we're hoping that Tom 
Freeman and Dave Butler come 
around," comments Faust. 
On the outside, there are no less -than six good candidates for playing 
time: Mike Golic, Larkin. Robert 
Banks, Rick DiBernardo, Joe Bars, 
and converted tight-end Behmer. 
With Golic sitting out spring 
practice because of a shoulder in­
jury, the coaches have been able to 
look more closcly at the other five. 
"We feel Larkin'sspeed and ability 
to provide perimeter defense is a 
great asset," says Faust. "That is one 
ofthe changes that has turned out to 
be especially effective." 
Defensive Line Although having a high profile in thc business world is nice, the key to success is performance. The quintct of Mike Gann. Greg Dingens, Mike G-iffin. Wally l(leine. amd Eric Dorsey definitely can take care of business in the trcnches. Threc of them at a time will be assigned the task to neutralize opponents' running games and pressure the quarterback when he tries to pass. \X-'ith the in­creased amount ofpassing in college foot hall, a pass rush is a vital element in the total spectrum ofpass defense. 
Kicking Game -This is the major weakness for the Irish he­cause both regulars are gone and no definite replacements have emerged. Mike Viracola appears to have the lead in the punting derby. but is up for re-evaluation in the fall. Placekickers John Carney. Pat Chura. Ted Gradel, and Hal Von Wyl have a chance to improve their chances for a starting assignment by asserting themselves tomorrow. 

The Observer Friday, April 27, 1984 -page 22 
For second time in three years 
Irish Rugby Club suspended 

By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Sporls Wrller 
For the second time in three years, the.· Notre Dame Ru~by Club has been sus!X·mkd. 
.. 
The action. taken by the Faculty lloard in Control of Athktics at the c.·nd of last semester, ends the dub's hoiX·s for a national championship this season. 
"lltc.· c.·xact reasons for the.· susiX·n· sion, however, have not bc.·en n·vc.·alcd. Athletic Dirc:nor Gene: CorriRan, a member of the board, would say only that the.· dub "was sus!X·nded for this spring because it didn't meet the· regulations of its reinstatement in 19HZ." 
The team, which was seeded ftrst in the upcoming Midwest University'· Cup, will bt· eligible 10 apply for
•i 
rdnstatc.·ment after this sc.·mester, ac.Tording to Corrigan. 

The dub was sus!X·nded in March, 19H I, after an incident in a Houston bar during its spring trip. About 30 members of the dub participated in a nude "elephant walk," in which they paradc.·d around the.· bar while bent over, holding each others' hands between their lcg,o;. Dean of Studc.·nts James Roemer instmcted the partil"ipants "never to play rugby again for Notre: Dame," after rc:cc.-iv­inR a complaint from a patron ofthe: bar. Corrigan cam:c:IIc:d the: remain· der of the spring 19H I schc.·dulc. 
After the.· formulation of a rt"instatc:ment plan and the perfor­mance: of several hundrc.·d hours of scrvin· work by its members, the dub was rdnstatc:d in time to play a sprinR. 19HZ schedule. Five of the: "ekphant walk" partil"ipants were allowed to play aftc.·r fulfilling thl" scrvke rc.'t)uiremc:nts. 
Corrigan would not say if the: latc.·st suspension was dul" to a similar inddl"nt. "That's betwc.·en the.· dub and us (the Faculty noard )." he.· said. 
Club Prc.·sidc:nt (jc.·oll Branigan also c.·hosc.· not to commt·nt on the.· rt"asons for the: suspension. 
"Wc.·'rc.· vc:ry disappointc.·d hl"­causc.· we had high hopes for this spring." 1\ranigan said. "We: had a 

LIQUIDATION and Electronics Sale 

Pioneer, Sanyo, Sansui, Jensen Craig, and much, much more Major distribution outlet to liquid ate to the walls regardless of cost. Save on turntables, receivers speakers, equalizers, car audi and more. 
Over $500,000 Retail Savings to 75 percent 
Telephones $5.99 Cordless phones $59.99
SUPER SALE Notre D1m1 ACC' atches $2.99' Slt10·9 
Sun 12-6 
Poster very successful fall season, and were "We've discussed several regula­anxious to make a nan at the national tions for next year," he said. "They championship." will probably have a faculty advisor. 
The dub was named the number one seed for thl" Midwest Cup after Their road trips will be limited. and the usc ofalcohol will be more tight·its October victory in the Indiana Tournament in Bloommington. A ly controlled." 
victory in the Midwest University Corrigan expressed optimism thatCup, to be held this weekend, would the dub can be reinstated and thathave given Notre Dame a berth in its problems solved. "I'm all for
the.· four-team national tournament them," he said. "They havenext month. 
According to Corrigan, the club demonstrated to me that the cluh may write to him over the summer has the potential for good kader­in order to apply for reinstatement. ship. They are a good bunch ofkids." 

"Bioo Gold Game 
Weekend" 
Fri: Happy Hour J.7 · Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 Sat: OPEN 10:00a.m ·Bloody Marys 1:.30-BlooGoldGame 
The Final Show 
Saturday, April 28 
10:00-12:00 
Triple Sec is: Jim Sutherland John Foryt Bob O'Donnell 
,~­
.~ 
KAYPRO II COMPUTER 
... -· f 
Comes Standard With 64K of Memory Two Disk Drives 
9" Green Screen 
Softwc..re Included: 
Easy to use Keyboard Wordstar Word Processor with numeric keypad 
Wordplus Spelling Proofreader Profitplan Spreadsheet Perfect Writer Word Processor Perfect Speller Perfect Calc Spreadsheet Perfect Filer Database Microsoft Basic 
Parallel and Seria.llnterface 
ABSOLUTELY UNBEATABLE 
Take a stab . at sportswriting--:-'-'1· 
, · ..,server 'leeds writers 10 cover spring and tall hnuntt some e• .,e, ;~'lee :s .....:e. all that's reeded '· 
'-"• ~ -.1' 


~­
··--·----.J 


Weare willing to help! Stephen's Body Shop 255-2261 
341 Capitol Ave., Mishawaka We specialize in: collision repair, paint jobs, prestige autos 
/iCI~· ~~:..
.. ~~--~. 
--~-":'(" ~ .-. 
~
. 
·, ·fi-· . -J 
:;;:......t;.. 
·r.....--~ 
' 
\ ·"' 
~c:tcJlC3L~--------------------------------------&-hl_a.y,_A_p_ril_2_7_,_19_8_4___
Pa•g•e-2_3 
~~­
Bloom Connty 
•. ANP 1H€ VOT!N6 CONTTNI/!CJ... 



Guindon Richanl Guindon The Far Side Berke Breathed 




&Dave 
Wf ARE 
N. D.IJ.. 
(WHIMPER!) 
,,?~ 


Gary~n 
51 "-the night and the music" 

Campus ~­
•2:30 
p.m. -Lectures, "Rhetoric and Realism; Or, Deconstruction, Marxism. and the Novel," Prof. Jonathan Arac, and, "Heidegger, Holderlin, and Politics," Prof. Fred Dallmayr, 202 CCE 

•3:30 
p.m. -Softball, SMC vs Franklin, Angela Athletic Facility 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Robot Manipulation and Control," Prof. W. A. Wolovich, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Specific Sequestering Agents for Iron and Actinides," Prof. Kenneth N. Raymond, 123 NSH 

•7 
and 10:15 p.m. -Film, "Lawrence of Arabia," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by India As­sociation, $1 

•7 
and 10 p.m. -Film, "In the Name of Democracy," CSC Rm 124, Sponsored by SOLA, Free 

•7:30 
p.m. -Friday Night Film Series, "We All Loved Each Other Very Much," Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -ND Brass Festival, Washington Hall 

•8 
p.m. -Nd Student Players, "Camelot," Ben­dix Theatre, Century Center, 54 

Saturday, April 28 

•8 
a.m. -Test, Graduate Record Examination, 127 NSH 

•8 
a.m. -Test, Medical College Admission Test. Engineering Auditorium 

•10 
a.m. -Lectures, "The Histoicist Turn in Philosophy," Cornel West, Library Lounge, and. "The Failure of Theory: the Absence of Change in Literary History," Paul A. Bove, Library Lounge 

•12 
p.m. -Baseball, ND Men vs Butler Univer­sity. Jake Kline Field 

•1 
p.m. -Football, Blue and Gold Game, Stadium 

•1 
p.m. -Softball, SMC vs Anderson , Angela Ath­letic Facility 

•7 
and 10:45 p.m.-Film, "Ben Hur," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by India Association, $1 

Sunday, April29 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Ms. Kayo Tatebe, Pianist, An­nenberg Auditorium 

•8 
p.m. -World Hunger Coalition Meeting, for Crop Walk Recruiters and Coalition Members, Center for Social Concerns 

•9:30 
p.m. -Senior Class Mass, Grotto, Sacred Heart ifit rains 



"The spoiler helps in cornering. It's nice to know you have it when you need II." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
37-hand 65 Consort 8 Single 1 Big party (assist) of Zeus 9 Method 5 Extinct 38 Elevator 66 Tierney 10 Gave wild ox 40 Tenth part film assurance 10 Entreat 42 Extinct 67 -Gwyn 11 Unusual 
14 Sea eagle bird 68 Rlverto 12 Goals 15 Bright 43 Thrusting the North 13 Measures: 16 Incursion weapon Sea abbr. 
17 Seth's son 45 Randolph 69 Tribe VIP 19 Siamese 
18 Winter or George 70 JuneS, coin weather 47 Emerge vic-1944 21 Highlander feature toriously 24 Have a go­
20 Tailed 48 Wiseone DOWN amphibians 50 Skep dwel-1 "Where have 25 Abominable 22 Early 
ler you-?" snowmen 23 Rot 52 Iowa State 2 Br.com· 27 Gr. phy­26 Ten: pref. U. city 
poser sician 

27 Strangled 
54 Pacific 3 Result 28 Flavorful 

30 Ordinary islands of18A herb people 55 Constrains 4 Scarlet 29 Kindof 34 Black letter girl treat or cuckoo 5 Ship let· door 58 Throb ters 31 Grew at an 35 "-Andron-61 Like alps 6 Race increasingicus" 
64 Wings 7 Parvenu rate 

32 Fisher orFoy 33 Fr. river 
36 Chases away 53 Calyx leaf 
39 All-out 55 Units armed 56 Make holes effort 57 Potato 
41 Sicilian 59 Casa 
spouter chamber 44 Droll 60 Slithery 46 Weather­61 Demure 
man's abbr. 62 Before 49 Treat 63 Patriotic royally org. 
Thursday's Solution 



***EARN MONEY*** 
The Student Activities Board needs poster hangers for the 1984-85 school year. 
Applications available at the Student Activities Board Offices on the 2nd floor of LaFortune 
IP---------------------1
SE{ I
Mixed Drink Special 
I ~-·'10 I
I ;:. B\ R Same low price all night!!! I
I / ;R Tribute to George Washington I I I 
1---------------------J 

Sweet Sixteen trimmed to Elite Eight as fun continues in Bookstore 

By PHIL WOLF Bremhorst was high scorer for the .\ports lf'ri ter game with nine points on H-for-1 I 
llookMort· Basketball Xlll's Sweet fidd shooting and 1-for-1 free throw Sixtt·en took to the asphalt courts shooting. Hjerpe was the leader for yesterday, and the action was sweet, the winners with 6-for-H shooting indeed. from the field and a 2-for-3 mark 
Two of yesterday's sixth-round from the line. 
games went into overtime, and most While Windy City Five was hat­
of the contt·sts wt·rc:: hard-fought, tling Scratch Twice and the Three:: 
hard-won battles. , Itches, Motown was giving Tequila 
Windy City Five had to score 2S White Lightning IV a tough game on points to gain the required two-Bookstore I 0. The game had been point margin of victory over Scratch close all the way, and the score was Twice and the Three Itches, and Te-tied at 21 when Steve Beuerlein hit a quila White Lightning IV nec::ded 23 jumper for Tequila. A moment later, to overcome Motown. Brian Enright hit from the top of the 
Scratch Twice and the Three key to seal the 23-21 victory. IH:hes jumped to a 2-0 edge in the High scorer for the game was 
6: IS game on Bookstore 9, hut could Vince Antonacci of Motown. An­not increase that lead, a.'i the game tonacci scored I 0 points on eight see-sawt·d for the entire first half. field goals and two free throws. Lou Windy City Five trailed, I 1-10, at Nanni set the example for the win­halftime, but finally took the lead at ners with six points. 
I S-14 in tht· second half. Meanwhile, on Stepan 1, another 
Scrah:h Twice til'd the score at IS, battle was in progress. Fun Bunch 16, and I""! before Windy City gained Five:: appeared to be running away a two-point advantage at 19-17, and with the game in the first few again at 20-1 H. John Stein then minutes, but Rousseau's Noble missed a fret: throw that would have Savages kept it close until ncar given Windy City a 21-1 H victory, halftime, when Fun Bunch led, 11-H. and back-to-hack fastbreak layups by 
At the beginning of the second Don Cleary and Randy Bremhorst half, Rousseau's abandoned the zone tied the game at 20. 
defense it had employed in the first Bremhorst then put Scratch period and played a man-to-man Twice up, 21-20, but Cleary missed defense. This strategy proved faulty,
his ehann· to win the game on a free 
however, as Rick DiBernardo took throw, and the lead changed hands advantage of a mismatch to reel off for the last time when Jim Baron 
three: consecutive baskets. Rous­
ti>llowed his own miss to makt· for a 
seau's was never able to recover and 
22·21 Windy City lead. A few Fun Bunch took the game, 21-18. 
minutes later with the score tied at 
Greg Dingens paced the winners 23, John Stein hit a jump .shot, and 
with 7 -for-I 0 shooting, while his the next time down the court Dan 
team shot 21-for-3H as a unit. Fangman tipped in an Ed Hjerpe 
miss for the game winnc:r. see SWEET, page 19 

Fun Bunch Five advanced to the Elite Eight of Bookstore XIII yesterday with a 21-18 win overRous­seau's Noble Savages at Stepan. Phil Wolfdetails all of 

A look at the Elite Eight 
Any true basketball fan will he in his glory this weekend as Bookstore XIII winds down to a conclu­sion. While Sunday's final behind the ACC at 3 p.m. 'will probably be the most heated game ofthis year's tourna­ment, today is, by far, the most exciting day of action. Fans are allowed the opportunity to stand hc:tween the Bookstore courts and watch two very exciting games at 
once. 

Those eight teams who have made it this far in the tournament have certainly earnt·d it. The easy wins, for all intents and purposes, stopped about two or three rom1ds ago. This is the cream of Notn~ Dame's basket­ball crop. 
Bookstore Basketball, in the t:yc:s of many, has never seen as many good teams in one year as it has this year. There were some classic battles even in the second and third rounds. The quality ofplay in the tournament has noticeably improved with each passing year, and, looking back at Oupter 13, I can honestly say that this 
Friday,April27, 1984-page 24 
yesterday's action at left and Bookstore Commis­sionerjeffBlumb gives a rundown of the Elite Eight 
below. 
Jeff 8 I u m b 
Bookstore Commissioner 
Tourney Talk 

While the weather ha!>n't exactly been the greatest ­at least not until this week (knock on wood) -what was lost in favorable conditions, has been made up for in c:xcitement for the fans. 
Hopefully things will continue to he just as exciting this weekend as the Elite Eight play down to just one. Everyone has their own personal favorite to win it all, hut here's a quick rundown ofthe eight who have made 
see ELITE, page 19 
Hot lacrosse 
Blue-Gold Game 
team to face 
Reserves get their chance to 
Ohio State 
shine as spring season ends
By MIKE SULLIVAN 
Sports l:.'ditor 
By THERON ROBERTS The: Notre Dame lacrosse: team is in a groove 
Sports Writer right now. Rich O'Leary's squad has won four straight games, including Wednesday's upset of With the sun appearing just in time to dry up memories of an extraor· powerful lknison, thrusting itself into contention dinarily cold and damp spring, Irish Head Coach Gerry Faust and his charges, for the conference title in the process. hoping to show some promise ofa bright 19H4 sea.~on, wrap up their spring Tht·Irish, who now stand at 7-3 (6-1 in the Mid­practice schedule tomorrow with the S4th annual Blue-Gold game. wc:st Lacrosse Association), will try to keep that 
This will he the fourth time through the routine: for Faust, who made his streak going as they play host to another tough 
t1rst appearance on the sidelines in Notre Dame Stadium for this occasion in MI..A opponent, Ohio State, tomorrow at II a.m. on 1981. The high expectations for that first year generated by a mania known Cartil·r Fidd. 
as "Faust Fever" were laid to rest after the Irish could manage only five The: pumpt·d-up squad must be careft1l to avoid a 
victories versus six defeats in Faust's inaugural sea.<;<m. letdown against the llut·keyc:s, though. In order to With only five players who started on offt·nse and defense at the end ofthe have: t·ven a remote chance at the MLA title, Notre: 
1983 season absent from the 1984 spring roster, and first-team positions DanK must win its two rc:maining games, and Ohio 
being reclaimed by their former owners, the outlook for success next sea.'ion State is capable ofbeating the Irish as it did last year 
looks pretty good, at least on the surf.1ce. The real problem lies in Notre ( tht· Buckeyes won Il-l 0 in overtime: at 
Dame's lack ofexperienced depth. Columbus). 
In order to counteract personnel shortages at certain positions, the Irish O'Leary is confident that there: will be no let­
coaching staff has juggled many playt·rs bt:twecn positions within the of· down. howt·vt·r. 
fense and defense, as well as from offense to defense. Nineteen changes have: "After a win like this," he said following the 
been implemented throughout the spring, with the majority of thost: lknison win, "the guys will work that much hard­
changes affecting the defensive secondary. t•r. Tht·y sec: that the season is not over yet." 
These steps have been taken to realize the goal that all collegt· fm•thall The Denison win raised the Irish into a second­
teams strive for during spring workouts -to improve depth so a.o; to he two place til' with Denison, one game bc:hind Ohio 
players deep in every position. Wt·sleyan, which is unddeated in MI..A play. 
"We were able to make so many position changes because we have prettyThe Notre Dame players will have other things on their much the same offc:nsive and defensive philosophy," Faust comments. "WeDc:nison and Ohio Wesleyan will play each otht:r in minds tomorrow, though, as they attempt to continue the also did a lot ofhitting and were t(Jrtunatc: not to have any serious injuries."
tht· last game of the season and a Denison win momentum they have picked up. The defense will have would cause a thrn·-way tie (assuming' that 
Tomorrow's matchup pits the Blue squad ofthe No. I offense and defenseto avoid the periodic lapses that have caused it the most plus the top reserves at c:ach position against tht: Gold squad which is
nobody gets upset ). problems this year. A zone deft.:nse has been very success­Wht·ther tht:re is a tie or not, the decision about 
manned by what is left ofthe No. 2 units plus the: No. 3 squad. Thc:refore. tht• 
ful this year when the Irish have bec::n ahead, but O'Lc:ary who will he the 19H4 MLA Champion will he made 
reserves and walk-ons will have a chance to show what they can do, a.o; one of
also has been using a man-to-man defense: frequently. by a thn:e·mt·mber hoard of people closely as­
the purposes ofthe scrimmage is to sample the reserve talent.
Goalie Rob Simpson has been the main beneficiary of 

sociated with midwestern lacrosse. Obviously, the Quarterback -The hig question concerning quarterbacks is who will
the improvement of the Irish defense. The junior has win-loss rt·cords will mean a lot, hut there are 
back up Steve Beuerlein. Beuerlein established himself as the man to heat
stopped about 65 percent of the opponents' shots this otht·r criteria. Especially important will be head­
after he started eight games and posted impressive statistics last season. 
year. to-head matchups. Ohio We~leyan's 12-S win over 
Faust insists that the Beuerlein question is a moot point. "There is no ques-
On the other end of the field, junior Bob Trocchi leads the Irish definitely makes Notre Dame the 
the Notre Dame scoring attack with 30 goals and I 0 as­

see GOLD, page 20 
longshot, but the possibility is still there. 
sists. 






