Alcohol 'policy -page 3 

VOL XVIII, NO. 120 thc inJcpcnJent student newspaper ser\ing 110trt dame and saint man·., ~ESDAY, APRIL 3, 1984 

the FM dial next semester, but right now such a move seems unlike(y. Story below. 
Chances are slim for FM 'Voice of Fighting Irish' station next year 
ByJOE INCARDONA 
StaffReporter 
The chances that student-run WSND-AM will make a switch to the FM radio dial next year are "slim," according to a consultant hired by the University to look into the pos­sibility ofsuch a move. 
Paul Matwiy, consultant to the Office of Student Activities on the project, said the application for the necessary license from the Federal Communications Commission is being withheld until those involved can decide if there is a good chance the FCC will approve it. 
"We don't want to promise the students a new FM radio station un­less we have a good shot at it," said Matwiy. He pointed out the Univer­sity already owns one non­commercial license which allows WSND-FM, the student-run classical music station, to broadcast over the airwaves in South Bend. 
The executive board of WSND­AM started its bid for the switch to FM last fall, when its members began preparing the FCC license applica­tion in cooperation with student ac­tivities. The board's members (all students) decided the new FM sta­tion would operate in place of WSND-AM, and proposed the station be renamed WVFI (Voice of the Fighting Irish). Matwiy was then 
hired to advise the board on the FCC application process. 
Matwiy said the prospects for get-
see RADIO, page 3 
:Peace Corps Director Loret Ruppe to speak at ND comtnencement 
ByDAN McCULLOUGH 
News Editor 
Loret Miller Ruppe, director of· the Peace Corps, will be Notre Dame's commencement speaker for 1984, The Observer learned yester­day. 
Although Assistant Director of In­formation Services Michael Garvey said, "I can neither confrrm nor deny anything until we have lined up all of the honorary degree recipients." The Observer was told by Ruppe's secretary she will be the commence­ment speaker and will be on campus May 20. 
President Reagan appointed Ruppe head of the Peace Corps on Feb. 14, 1981. Prior to that she was co-chairwoman of the Reagan-Bush Committee in Michigan during the 1980 election. Ruppe is also the wife of former congressman Philip Ruppe. 
An official White House press 
release said Ruppe "has spent most 
of her life in volunteer efforts," 
including the International Neigh­
bors Club IV, and "has traveled ex­
tensively and shared ideals with past 
Peace Corps volunteers in many 
countries." Before taking over the 
Corps, Ruppe had no previous 
professional experience. 
The Peace Corps, initiated by the late President John Kennedy, has changed from its original image. When initially established by Ken­nedy, the Corps was staffed mostly by young people affiliated with Ken­nedy's Democratic administration. In recent years, however, most Corps leaders have been loyal Republicans. 
Recently, Ruppe has been accused of liberalizing the Peace Corps policy on offering abortions to volunteers. According to a)an. 13, 1984, Washington Times article, Ruppe was responsible for a "more permissive policy that allows volun­teers to remain in the Peace Corps until after a second abortion," rather than being dismissed after one abor­tion. 
The article further states Ruppe decided to continue the practice of using federal money to fund abor­tion counseling, transportation and per diem expenses of pregnant volunteers. The article continues on to say about 200 volunteers have used the funds for abortions during the past three years. Ruppe has been criticized for this policy because it is not consistent with the current ad­ministration's. 
Thomas Paulken, director of the 
Peace <brps' parent organization, 
ACTION, said the policies "were to­
tally inconsistent with the presi­
dent's philosophy and approach on 
this issue ... It was the policy ofthis 
administration and this agency and 
all of its components that in no way 
would we use federal funds or 
federal encouragement to aid or 
abet abortions." 
A Jan. 7, 1984 article, in The 
Washington Post, said Ruppe 
secretly tape-recorded a conversa­
tion with her deputy, Edward Cur­
ran, about difficulties in their 
working relationship. The article 
also said the incident was reviewed 
by White House counsel Fred Field­
ing and he reportedly found the 
taping violated agency regulations 
but was not illegal and should be 
handled as a personnel dispute. 
Askew, Glenn, Hollings in Mock Convention 
By TERRY BLAND 
News Staff 
Editor's note: This is the last offour ar­ticles outlining the platforms and ob­jectives of the candidates who will be represented in the Mock Convention which opens tomorrow. 
Ernest Hollings 
As governor of South Carolina, Ernest Hol­lings was able to balance the state's budget for the first time since Reconstruction. 
As president, Hollings says he would call for an across-the-board freeze on the federal budget, and repeal the I 0 percent tax cut coming in July to help reduce the federal deficit. 
"Ernest Hollings sees the deficit as the big­gest crisis of today," says Joe Malvezzi, cam­paign manager for Hollings in the Mock Convention. "He believes that the economic growth of today is just a knee jerk reaction to falling energy prices." 
Hollings says government should act as a leader in industrial policy. By assisting in research and finance, Hollings thinks govern­

. ment can act as a catalyst in ~ringing business, labor and agriculture into a partnership. 
Besides a deficit freeze, Hollings sees the economic recovery policy as having a founda­tion in an improved education system. "Hollings believes in improving the public school system," says Malvezzi. "If you im­prove the school system in every city, you can also improve the state school system and the national school system. By educating people,

!you can decrease unemployment.'' 
Hollings believes democracy in Central America can be sustained through economic and military aid to the region. In order to assist in establishing democracy, aid from outside forces like Cuba and Russia must be stopped. 
Foreign policy is another issue Hollings sees as important. Hollings said about American marines in Lebanon, "if they're there to fight, there are too few. If they're there to die, there are too many." He does, however, believe the U.S. should support the president in any foreign policy decisions. 
Hollings supports the Kennedy-Hatfield freeze on nuclear weapons. But he does not support nuclear build down because he believes it raises the chance ofwar, especially in Western Europe. 
"The reason Hollings dropped out is be­cause he did poorly in New Hampshire," says Malvezzi. "I believe Hart became a national candidate because of the coverage he received from the media. Hollings didn't receive that kind ofcoverage." 
Malvezzi is running the Hollings campaign on campus by himself because he doesn't want people to get involved politically with someone they don't know. "I just want people to take a look at Hollings and get to know what he stands for," says Malvezzi. "Hollings has good ideas where the Mondale and Hart cam­paigns are based on empty promises." 
Reubin Askew 
Dave MeA voy, campaign manager for Reubin Askew, believes Askew's campaign is more organized than anyone else's on campus. "At the beginningofthe campaign we came in last in a random poll throughout campus," says McAvoy. "Recently, we've been targeting the campus with banners and plat­forms and have climbed to fourth in a recent preference poll." 
Askew is a conservative democrat who believes the U.S. should support El Salvador. "Askew believes we should give economic aid only to those regimes which do not violate the human rights of people," says McAvoy. "He does see Central America as vital to our inter­ests." 
Defense spending is another issue Askew 

i'tE":~~~ 

:?:-::-:/·.-:--:.-.-·.-·e;"" \\0~.-:--: 
~o-(\'Jet\.............................. 
c;;;::9..~::-:::::::::·:::::::::::::::;:;_:;;i:fii:): 

and favors an annual increase of about 5 per­cent in the defense budget. Askew would spend more on defense only if it would achieve specific objectives as part ofa nation­al defense strategy. 
Askew opposes a unilateral nuclear arms freeze, but he believes the U.S. should resume arms control talks with the Russians. As a reac­tion to the reduction of nuclear weapons, As­kew favors a build-up of conventional forces in NATO. Another defense cut Askew proposes is the elimination ofthe B-I bomber and the MX missle. 
Askew recognizes a strong need to reduce 
the federal deficit. He would apply restraints on spending to assist in reducing the deficit. By repealing the I 0 percent across-the-board tax cut, Askew says the federal deficit could be reduced by $30 billion in fiscal 1984, and by $I 77 billion over the next five years. 

As a pro-life supporter, Askew is the only democratic candidate to come out against abortion. He supports the idea of a constitu­tional human life amendment. 
MeAvoy says Askew has a good chance of winning in the Mock Convention. "In order to win, we have to create a momentum," says M:Avoy. "We want the delegates to know how Askew stands on the issues." There are currently I 0 students working on the Askew campaign, five of whom are student govern­ment officers. 
In an effort to familiarize students with the Askew campaign, MeA voy plans to hold a hap­py hour in which platforms and buttons will be distributed. MeAvoy will also begin a phone drive in which the election committee will contact each delegate by phone. 
"I believe Askew's rise in popularity is due to the hard work the committee has put in on the campaign," says McAvoy. "Askew is an appealing candidate and ifwe can get the stu­dents familiar with his ideas, we have a good chance." 
John Glenn 

John Glenn, another conservative democratic presidential candidate in the Mock Convention, is a strong supporter ofjob legislation as way offighting unemployment. 
Ifelected, Glenn plans to provide S225 mil-
see GLENN, page 4 

The Observer Tuesday,April3, 1984-page 2 


J·n Brief 
Aperson claimingto represent Notre Dame won the "Wet Willie" contest this year at the Button in Fort Lauderdale during spring break. A student who asserts he is that person says he danced in the contest with an empty beer case over his head to remain anonymous. Last year a Notre Dame student won the "Wet Willie" contest and was nearly expelled. Dean of Students James Rocma issued a directive before spring break instructing students to stay away from such contests. -The Observer 
The "Shamrocks Against Dystrophy" 
campaign, hdd the week before Spring Break, raised close to $1200 for the Muscular Dystrophy Association. Most of the money raised came in the form of pennies and small change, according to cam­paign chairman GeorgeJordan. The money raised will be used by the South Bend MDA office to provide services to local patients. -The Obsert'er 
New permanent I.D. cards will be used begin­
ning during the fall 1984-85 semester. During advance registration, Monday, April 16 through Wednesday, April 18, all continuing stu­dents will have their photos taken for the new I.D. card. The cards will be distributed during fall enrollment. The permanent I.D. card will not have a void date or the student's birthdate printed on it. Beginning with the fall 1985/86 semester students who have en­rolled will also have their permanent I.D. card embossed with a date ( t•.g., 84ND85). This will validate the J.D. card for the entire acadt:mic year. -The Observer 
A $2,000 Hibernian Research Award has 
been presented to Charles Fanning, professor of English at Bridgewater State College in Bridgewater, Massachusetts and David Brundage, senior research scholar at City University in New York. The award was given by the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Cen­ter for the Study of American Catholicism at Notre Dame. Fanning is at work on a study of the Irish literary voice in American literature; Brundage is doing research in the history ofIrish-American working p~·ople in Colorado during the 1890's. -The Observer 
The Supreme Court, while adhering to its 22-year ban on officially sponsored school prayers, said yesterday it will con­sider letting public schools provide a daily "moment of silence" for students. The justices said they will study an Alabama law that allowed periods ofsilence at the start ofeach school day for student meditation or prayer. The law was struQit down as unconstitutional by a federal appeals court that said the legislation's main purpose was promoting religion. -AP 
Of Interest 
Ian L. McHerg, chairman of the Department of Landscape Architecture and Regional Planning, at the University of Pennsylvania, is speaking today in the Annenberg Auditorium at 4 
p.m. on "Design with Nature: The Ecological Dimension." -The Obsen•er 
A Latin Mass will be offered by Father Leonard Banas, in the Pangborn flail Chapel tomorrow at 12: IS p.m. The Mass is being sponsored hy the Classical Students ofNotre Dame. All arc wdcome. 
-7'ht• Obsen,er 
·Weather 

ThoseApril showersmar come in 
handy later! A 70 pcrn·nt chann· of rain today and hrn·zy. High in upper 40s and low 50s. A "'0 per­t:cnt chann· of rain tonight and turning cooler. Low in mid 50s. Rain nr drizzle likely tomorrow and t:ool. lligh in upper 50s and low 40s. 
The Observer 
fJeslg11 Eel/lor.........................Chri• llowler 
Design Assislanl...................,lohn Mennt'll
The Ohserver ( 1'~1>:-. ~')') ~-1000) " 
Layout Staff...................... Tina and Sharon 
puhli~hnf Monday through f:nd.ay Jnd 
Typesel/ers ..... Michelle and Ted 
on honu: foothall ~alllrdoLy~. t:xn,:pt 
Neu•s /:'ell tor ................. .......... Amy Stephan
c.lunng t' xam Jnd \ acation pt·riod~ The 
Copy Editor... .. ..... Mark Potier
Ohst•rvt·r •~ puhll..lu·d hy rht· \llH.h:nt~ of 
Sports Cop)' l:'dltor............. Dave Dzkdzic 
the: I 111\'t:r~Hy ol N11trl' Danw and ~atnl 
Vieupoint Layout.. .. . .................... Paul 
Maq ·, Collt')(l' ~Uh!'!t:ription~ llla) ht.· 
Features Cop)' Editor ............. Mary ~kaly
purrha..·d for Sl~ pn yur ( sI~ pn 
f'eatures La)'OUI.. ................... Mary
~c:nll'~tc..·r) hy "ritinJl. The Ohst~rver, 
ND Day Editor .................. Melinda Moore
I' I I llox Q. :'l<orrt· Damc.lndo.na lh~~l> 
.\MC!Jay Editor........... Maggit' O'Connell
The Observer i~ a mt·mht·r (,fThe A.tt­
,:ld f>.eslg•! .. ;· ....... M"{y F,a.~t~r,day .
soclated Press. All rt·producuon ri~ht' 
Ph"logmpber... .. .. 1.ev Chap~l~ky
Jfl' rt·...,t·rvt·d 

A few solved problems 

They're called "parking lot issues" -the little things 
student government workers do to make life for the rest 
of us a little better. 

More this, and more that. A meeting here, a store there. Oft-repeated on the trail to the presidency (or the senate or hall government), these wanton promises rarely materialize, and the campaign posters are long gone come August or September. In addition, very few candidates are ever put to the test ofre-election. 
But bureaucratic miracles do happen, and outgoing Student Senator Dave McAvoy and Student Union Movie Commissioner MaryJane Costello have followed up on particular problems about the campus with a laudable amount offervor. 
You know this scenario. He's been on the phone for twenty minutes. Twisting and untwisting the cord, he's shifted from his left to his right foot 42 times. To his right, she's been staring into the grey marble for up­wards of fifteen minutes, blankly gazing around the graffiti-covered sign which 
there was sufficient demand, McAvoy says he went to 
see Fred Baumer, comptroller ofthe University, to see if 
another telephone could be installed. 
"Baumer wouldn't pay for it, but he said if Student Government paid for it, OK, and ifyou get the library's approval," says McAvoy, who adds it took him until January to get all the necessary yeses. From there, McAvoy called Indiana Bell to get price quotes on the rental and the installation. 
"I took all these facts to Brian (Callaghan, student body president) who got Student Government to pay for it. After that it was a good two months before any­thing happened," he says. 
Finally in February, the long-awaited phone appeared on the wall, at an initial cost of S80 and a monthly -charge of S 1 7. The process took almost four months to complete, but MeAvoy seems to believe the bureaucratic toil was worth it. 
Says McAvoy, those smaller projects "take a lot of 
Mark Worscheh 
Managing Editor 
-

·.
Inside Tuesda 
time because you've got to go and hit every base, talk to every person," but he adds, "The turning point came when we decided we were going to pay for it." 
Over in Cushing Hall, "James Bond Week" begins tonight, the latest in a series ofgreat movies brought to Notre Dame with the help ofSU's movie commissioner. Under Costello's direction, such blockbuster's as 48 
Hours, Gandhi, Trading Places, Risky Business and 
War Games have been shown on the screen in the Engineering Auditorium. Costello chose all of the 
reads "Please limit calls to five minutes." The line begins at the large Rubber­maid trash can and begins to extend up the stairs. 
This is the entrance to the Pit in the Memorial Library, where a little while ago, only two campus phones served the hundreds of students who use the facility daily. Now that number has been bumped up to three, and word from student govern­ment is that a fourth may be added. 
McAvoy began the drive to get that phone last December. After getting Ombudsman to determine if 
movies for this semester, a change from when the sponsoring club c<f'ld not 
only pick the film,  ut the  
exact date as well.  he says  
last year "clubs co  ld pick  
any movie they wa  nted. It  

didn't allow me to ~ake any package deals with any film company." 
The quality of campus films "had been deteriorat­ing," she says, and clubs who received bad lottery picks often had to show un­popular movies. The profits from the showings now arc pooled and distributed to campus clubs. 
Costello says she has 
received complaints from some students about the weekend price hike to $1.SO, but rising rental fees jus­tify the increase, she says. From the viewer's side, it seems the biggest problem has been keeping change supplied to the ticket-takers, and problems with film projection have also been greater this year. 
Nonetheless, the better movie offerings have made the problems seem minor, and it's hard to argue a recent rekase isn't worth another SO cents. 
The views expressed in the Inside co mn are the views of the author, and do not n ces­sarily reflect the views of the editorial tl>ard or staff 
Lettuce hear 
Laundry Notice: To insure that all charges for special/express laundry, drycleaning and tailoring are able to be billed, all items 
from you••• 
picked up after April 13, 1984 will be strictly on a cash basis. No 
charges to the students' accounts will be permitted. However, this 
does not apply to the regular student bundle service. Any amount 
over the bundle allotment will be billed on the next semester's in­
voice. Seniors are reminded that their accounts must be billed prior 
to graduation, including overuse of bundle service. We will have 
balances owed, as a result of exceeding the laundry allotment, for 
seniors only, on May 10, '84. Any bundle input by a senior after that 
date may result in a negative balance which will require us to collect 
cash upon receipt of the bundle by the senior. 
-T"'i!fll' ,,4 .J,., •
:? ,, 
~· 

·..~ 
Outw•rd Bound. Depl. CH. 384 Field Polnl Rd. Greenwich, CT 06830 Phone toll frll!e (800) 243-8520 
No Pwptorlrmce necn.sarv. Outward Uound admlfr. !>IUdf'nfs ofany roew. ran•. nJinr and nafluno~~l M elhnk 
S~f,~J~'!h':;:v~R"J.J~.flt organization. 
'fi~"D 
~-~ 
0 
Write: 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Outward Bound Is more than trfp of high adventure. It's discovering yourself. earning that you're better than 
ou rhJnk you are. 
And finding out how to work ithulherl e 
You may come back a better 
you. 

, · · • • .a~•··*~''lll-.-· ; 1 Outward Bound' 
J .r~ •' ...., ~_.~'''if~··""' •" •~"-~' '\"T"'\'\.~;,hnfa~·,.,:.ft··~.:!.·.~ ''":':"" r"' 
.,.ht""C'ftltll'sl'llhatn&llierend 
Hang In there! 
Send for more tnfonnatlon: 
Stn.•et City Stah' ~Zip 
School Check tlu• courae1 thatlnterp'if you: Can<Wing Desert 
WhiteWater Expedition• Rafting Wllderrw•!!o 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Tuesday,April3, 1984-page 3 

Bertino is his executive advisor Tom Knee to the left, andStudentBody TreasurerAINovas to the right. 
By MIKE MILLEN 
News Staff 
The off-campus student commis­sioner will no longer be a member of the student senate as a result of a resolution passed unanimously at last night's student senate meeting. 
The current off-campus commis­sioner, Doug Honeywell, was not present at the meeting. "I have no comment," he said later in a phone interview. 
Student Body Vice President Cathy David recommended the commissioner be made a member of the Hall President's Council, saying "there are currently two off-campus representatives on the student senate, and no off-campus representatives on the Hall Presi­dent's Council." She reasoned the off-campus commissioners have no means of recetvmg _pertinent in­formation discussed at the HPC meetings. 
"The hall presidents seemed favorable to the idea," David added, responding to arguments the senate could not mandate policy for the HPC. 
Student Body President Rob Ber­tino announced the formation of a committee to study the proposal to increase the student activities fee 
Deadline past, but new alcohol policy remains undisclosed 
By FRANK LIPO The passage of the deadline was News Staff not publicly acknowledged by Fr. William Beauchamp, head of the The April 1 deadline set for the an­Committee on the Responsible Use nouncement of the revised Notre of Alcohol or by Dean Timothy Dame alcohol policy has passed, and O'Meara, University provost. Both it is unclear exactly when the long­Beauchamp and O'Meara were un­awaited policy will be made public. available for comment, they were 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Advertising Design Manager 
e Previous design experience is preferred. 
e The job requires working in the afternoon and supervising a staff of advertising designers. . 
e Submit resume and personal statement to Mark Worscheh by 5 p.m. today. For more information, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
The ObseiYer 3rd Roor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
SUMMER 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION 
SPECIAL RATES 

Call NtJW 
683-1959 

Senate abolishes one OC commission seat 
from $30 to S40. The issue will be discussed in future meetings. 
A debate regarding the candidacy of Harold Augustine for Senior Fel­low was opened. Debate ended when some student senate members objected to the discussion. Ex­ecutive Coordinator Ray Wise said "I don't think that it's for us to decide." David echoed this philosophy, saying "This is a deci­sion for seniors .. .it's not really any ofour business." 
Bertino announced a new policy regarding the recording of senate votes and other information. He said votes, attendance, and sub­committee participation will be tab­ulated henceforth, and "will be made public in the future." 
Office hours have been set up so that anyone can discuss student government-related issues with the student body president and vice president. Bertino will be available on the second floor of La Fortune from 10-11 p.m. on Sunday and Mon­day, and David from 11-12 p.m. Tuesday and Wednesday. 
In other business, Bertino noted the cabinet application deadline has been extended to Friday. He stated a new constitution will be voted on at the next senate meeting. 

both attending a session of the Provost Advisory Committee. Neit­her the Provost's office nor the Uni­versity Information Services office were able to provide information regarding the impending policy. 
Student Body President Rob Ber­tino is playing the waiting game along with the students he represents. He has "no idea" what the policy will be. It will be released by the week of April 9 he assumes, but he is unsure whether it will be a general release or a release to the rectors followed by a general release. 
When asked about the upcoming April 6 deadline for release from on­campus housing without penalty, Bertino speculated there would on­ly be a small tie between the new policy and on-campus housing withdrawals. He said most students who are going to move off-campus have anticipated some sort of change and already are in the process of making arrangements for an off-campus move. 
Brian Callahan, former SBP and one of two students on the alcohol committee, commented on the relationship between the housing withdrawal deadline and the im­minent alcohol policy. He believes the housing withdrawal deadline will not be a problem. "Anyone who 
moved  off-campus due  to  the al­ 
cohol  policy  would  not  be  
penalized," he said.  

Although it is unclear exactly when the policy will be released, Callahan shed some light on the delay, "I think they (the llniversity offict'i'S')'fotwarded it tb the Univer­sity trustees and they are waiting for a response. It should be out later this week or very early next week." 
Although unable to discuss details of the new policy until it is announced, he spoke of his willing­ness to discuss the details of the policy when it was made public. He said, "I don't feel it is the best com­promise available. I still feel there were better alternatives and I spoke up about that at every meeting" 
Fr. Mark Poorman, Dillon Hall rec­tor and committee member, agreed with Callahan that the policy is now being discussed by the University trustees. He said the committee finished the document before spring break and submitted it to the lhiver­sity officers (the President, Provost and other administrators.) After the officers reviewed the document, it was sent to the University trustees, where it remains. Although, like Cal­lahan, he could not comment on the details of the committee's recom­mendation, he did say it was ex­tremely well-worded. 
He indicated it is fruitless to discuss the policy further until the details of the document are known. He said, "the next point of fruitful discussion will occur when ·the policy does come out." 

Architecture students move Beaux Arts Ball to South Dining Hall 
ByJENNIFER BIGOTT 
StaffReporter 
Changes have been made in this semester's Beaux Arts .Ball, accord­ing to Dan Rectenwald, vice presi­dent of the student chapter of the American Institute of Architects. The AlA sponsors the dance each semester. 
The Beaux Arts Ball was cancelled last fall due to the combination of crowded conditions in the Ar­chitecture Building and alleged in­stances of alcohol abuse. According to Rectenwald, crowding was a problem at the last Ball because tick­ets were sold before the Ball and at the door. When a surprisingly large number of people turned out, the building could not house all those who had purchased tickets. Addi­tional complications arose from the presence of alcohol, which was prohibited. 
Consequently, almost two weeks after the event, Dean of Students james Roemer said there would be no more Beaux Arts Balls in the future. "It's a University buildingand what you do inside ofa school build­ing is very controlled, and I guess 
...there's a question as to whether 
we were complying with those tenaed the last Beaux Arts Ball. rules," said Rectenwald. Proceeds from the event are all-
Since then, officers of the AlA ocated for various operating ex-have talked with Roemer, rectifying penses of events designed to previous problems. As a result, the promote campus awareness of the AlA will sponsor another Beaux Arts Architecture School. Such events in­Ball. "We view the Ball as one good elude lectures, seminars and ex­tool for us to reach out and open up hibits. "We've delegated authority to the campus," said Rectenwald. and gotten more people involved," 
Approximately, 600 people at-said Rectenwald. 
Radio 
continuedfrom page 1 
ting a new FM station on campus were much better last fall when the group first looked into applying for an FM license. He said the odds have diminished since then because an­other group in the South Bend area decided to apply to the FCC for the only frequency available for a new non-commercial FM station. 
"Given the fact that there are al­
ready five non-commercial FM sta­
tions in South Bend, I don't think the 
FCC would grant two public 
licenses to anyone," said Matwiy. He 
said he believes the situation is fur­
ther complicated by the fact the Uni­versity also owns several commercial radio stations in South Bend. Matwiy stressed, however, the final decision about submitting the FCC application rests with WVFI's executive board. 
Matwiy also emphasized he and the members of the station's ex­ecutive board are "exploring lots of different avenues" in their attempt to determine the future of the new station. One of the options being considered is a complete rebuilding of the carrier current system which transmits WSND-AM's signal. This would allow the new station to broadcast in stereo on the AM dial. WVFI will also relocate its facilities to the LaFortune Student Center, moving into a new studio described by Matwiy as "one of the top two in the South Bend area." 


.. . . . . . . .. . . .. . . .... . . . ... ....... •' ,• . . . .•-... .................• ............. ., ......................................-.-......... .
~· 

The Observer Tuesday, April3, 1984-page 4 

Letwlng books for later, Lori A rick and Dan Lal~y  weather,  knowing  that  with  South  Bend's  tem­ 
take time out to watch the sunset nearSt.joseph's lake.  peramental weather, spring is never certain.  
Many students are  taking advantage of the u•ann  

Saint Mary's selects commissioners 
ByJEAN STEINW ACHS 
Neu•sStaff 
Eight new commissioners for next 
year's student government at Saint 
Mary's have lx:en chosen. 
The new commissioners will be Lisa Fitt ( entt·rtainment), Jane Aka!aitis (movies), Kacey Horner 
( publk relations), Trish Cullo (election), Mary Beth Lavezzorio 
Glenn 
continuedfrom page I 
lion in limding to aid victims of the 
rt-ct·ssion. <ilcnn is an advocatt· of 
the Women, Infants and Children 
program and by giving $100 million 
to this program. Glenn daims the 
governmt·nt could reduce 
economic problems within families. 
l.ikt· llollings, <ilcnn bdicves 
education is an important issue in 
the UJKoming dec! ion. By t·nsuring 
equal accc~s and opportunity to all 
people in the school system. Glenn 
sees the II.S. as continuing to ht· a 
kada among nations. 
<iknn also strongly t·ndorses the 
Kennt·dy-llatfidd freeze. lloweva, 
<iknn li:ds it is not l'nough to adv­
m·att· a frl'l'Ze. if tht· frt'l'Zl' per­
pt·tuates unntTessarily high levels of 
stratt·gk arms. <ilcnn holds that the 
only sali: anti sl·n,ihk route to 
nudcar rnluction is 10 rt·turn to the 
bargaining tahlt-with the Soviet I Ini­
on. 
Along with tht· reduction of 
nuclear wt·apons, <iknn supports an 
increast• in conventional forn·s. lk 
also endorse~ the rt·placement oftht· Joint Chids of Staff with a central military staff" and t·stablishing an in­dt·pl·ndenl oltkc for t·valuating the lkft-nsc Department. 
<ikon says he would cancel tht· !\IX misslc and devl'lop a small. more accuratl· lantl-basetlmisslc. 
Glenn wants to establish a strong and !liverst· manut;Killring b;L~t· which he set·s as essential to thl· United States cconomk security. By deVl·loping a cohl-rl·nt set of policies, <iknn says tht· I ·.s. can bet­ter compete at home and abroad. 
Alkn (iatcs. campaign managn lilr <iknn on t·ampus, was un­avaliable for commt·m. 
(traditional events), Doric Murray (judicial), Liz Adams (off-campus) and Jcanoe Hudak (Christian life). The graphic/publicity commis­sioner will be chosen Wednesday, and the athlctk commissioner at a later date. 
The criteria for the choices were an application and a fifteen minute interview with the student body prcsidcnt, vice president of student affairs and vice president of academic affairs. 
Some new changes have taken place in student government com­missions. The speaker, alumni and 
...developmcnr-..Co"riiiliiSSlorlS'ha-i'e been taken over by the vice presi­dent of academic afl'airs, and the off­campus commissioner will be a student governent representative. There will also be an RA. representa­tive as a commissioner next year. 

Anne Marie Kollman, vice presi­dent of student affairs, said the RA commission will "hopefully get stu­dent government and RAs working together more than they have in the past." 
Budak says her commmission "wants to allow the students to voice opinions about Christian life through meetings in halls. We also hope to get more students involved in volunteer work." 
Lee Ann Franks, student body president, stressed student govern­ment is willing to listen to students, and the meetings are open to anyone interested in attending. 
Social researchers mail computer attitude quiz 
By BUD LUEPKE 
News Staff 

Technology. It shapes our lives. 
The telephone has become essential 
in every home. The television set is 
for many, an intrinsic part of daily 
living. In 1984, computers arc the 
"new" technology. 

The Social Science Training and Research Laboratory is mailing to random students a survey concern­ing attitudes towards computers. 
The survey is aimed at discovering different conceptions of, and feelings toward., computers. 
Dr. Stephen Arndt, a program­mer/consultant at the Lab, came up with the idea of the survey while in his own work with computers. He explained, "Once I sat next to a guy working a computer, and he was sweating. Some people fear com­puters. I had never thought of them (computers) that way." Arndt said he worked with computers in the Navy and now has a computer in his home. 
The survey was mailed last week to 1500 undergraduate students, about 20 percent of the student body, and were sent completely at random. About 250 surveys have been returned, and Arndt said the return rate is less than what he had hoped for. Arndt said he expects to receive the rest of the surveys with­in next two weeks. 
The survey itself includes a wide range of questions. It begins with questions aiming at categorizing stu­dents by year, sex, department of 
Buy your Senior Formal Bid Today! On sale in LaFortune and Le'Mans, 1 4:30-6:30, Apri I 2-4 
Tux fitting and Second City Tickets also available Don't miss out on the biggest event of the vear!! 
oocoaaccccccccccooooooaccocrJOC 

No Software for your Macintosh? 
~1ST OUR

Microsoft's PRICE PRICE 
Basic $150 $110 Multiplan 195 142 Chart 125 90, 


Peopl eWare Computer Products. Inc. P.O. Box 10359 Minneapolis. MN 55440 
In South Bend, call: 272-7580. © 1914 

study, and experience with com­
puters. 

The survey then asks the student 
how he views computing and 
people who work with computers. 
For instance, do you view com­
puters as feminine or masculine? Do 
you view people who spend a lot of 
time with computers as socially in­
ept or socially adept? For these ques­
tions, a student may circle a number 
one through seven, one being one 
extreme and seven being the other. 
All of the questions have degrees to 
their answers such as this. 

The survey next asks for the stu­
dent's personal attitude toward 
computers. For example, using a 
scale ofone through seven, it asks if 
you view computers as easy or dif­
ficult, as humanizing or dehumaniz­
ing. 

The survey's purpose, as Arndt 
admits, is unclear at this Lime. He has 
no hypotheses yet. "For now," he 
said, "I just want to find out what the 
conceptions (of computers) are. 
You sec advertising making assump­
tions of what people's misconcep­
tions are, but no one ever really 
went out to ask them". Arndt also 
said, "Once I know what the concep­
tions are, I can then think about 
ways ofsoftening the impact oftech­
nology on society." 

Arndt expects the results of the 
survey to be completed by the end 
of May or june. To find out more 
about the survey or its results, Arndt 
can be contacted in the Social 
Science Training and Research 
Laboratory on the fifth floor of the 
Memorial Library. 
SENIORS Time is runninq out! 




View~_o_i_n_t_________
'f_ue_sd_ay,-Ap-ril-3,_19-84-p-ag_e5 
The important points behind Viewpoint 
On March 25, a new administration took over at The Obseroer; its first issue was printed the next day. The current issues of The Ob­seroer are now the product of this new and 
David Grote 
Speaking out ofturn 

still inexperienced group. If the first breaths of this new leadership prove unsteady, inex­perience will probably be to blame. 
Viewpoint is no exception. New people, new writers and new leadership mean errors in both the appearance and the content ofthis page. Hopefully, these errors will start to dis­appear as I become more settled as editor. 
The Viewpoint page in The Obseroer is the one place where issues and ideas are ex­
amined and discussed, and where the reader is given a chance to respond. Occasionally, the opinion expressed will be 
an official statement from The Obseroer's editorial board. This statement will be published in the form of a house editorial. A house editorial is a concensus of the ideas of the ten members of the editorial board and will appear when important issues surface on campus. 
The house editorial, though, is the excep­tion rather than the rule. Most of the articles you will read on this page will be the opinions of individuals, the great majority of them stu­dents. These articles will raise important issues and will hopefully prompt you to form­ulate your own ideas. 
You will not always agree with the opinions on this page. Sometimes you may be down­right offended. But ifthe writer has expressed himselfclearly, and has inspired you to think, then he has certainly fulfilled his duty as an editorialist. 
But Viewpoint articles will not be confined to student writers. The Obseroer is always looking for new people with new perspectives. In the future this page will seek out articles from faculty and administrative staff, who with their experienced and profes­sional point of view may offer accurate descriptions of such things as the changing job market, the dynamic future of personal computers, or the explanation of the official Church stand on important social issues. 
The Viewpoint page serves a vital role as an open forum for ideas and opinions at Notre Dame. One ofits duties is to provide space for all members of our community to express their opinions. 
P. 0. Box Q provides our readers with the opportunity not only respond to articles appearing in The Obseroer, but also to allow readers to expound on issues they see as sig­

· nificant in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity. 
Guest columns and letters to the editor are 
the readers' stake in The Obseroer. The stu­
dents, faculty and adminstration should make 
use of the resources we offer. 
As editor, though, the final day-to-day deci­sion ofwhat appears on the Viewpoint page is solely my own. Letters to the editor are printed when space provides. But to respon­sibly serve readers it is important to print as many letters as possible. If two letters promote the same point ofview on a topic, we may only run one of them. In this way, the opinion is still honored, even though a name may not appear. 
The content of Viewpoint should be intel­lectually compelling, clearly presented and representative ofvarious perspectives. Hope­fully, during the upcoming year, Viewpoint will meet this goal with consistency. 
P. 0. BoxQ 
Satirical exploits 
Dear Editior 
It's refreshing to see that The Obseroer has decided to branch out into unexplored ter­ritory with bold new additions to its format; now we, the readers, are blessed with funny, accurate parodies of the simple-mindedness and naivete that threaten this university. 
The Viewpoint article entitled "Come to Paradise, come to Notre Dame" really had me in stitches. The author seems to touch all the bases with his mocking ofthe automatons that threaten to stifle any attempt at free thinking by the students ofthis university. 
Especially pointed were the attacks on the fictive narrator's dangerous moral com­placency, insidious self-righteousness, his flair for absurd hyperbole, and his simple ig­norance of the very real problems of al­coholism, strained relationships between the sexes, and lack of open-mindedness on the part of the students, faculty and administra­tion. 
This article is a stunning example ofone of the things this campus needs: parody that is relevant and makes us laugh. It is a parody, isn't it?...isn't it? 
Christopher Miller freshman 
Opportunity to learn 
DearEditor: 

I can almost remember when I too was a freshman, when I thought Notre Dame was paradise, when Friday quizzes were "tests of integrity".... Freshman year was when the reasons for coming to Notre Dame were still fresh in my mind, when my naivete and in­nocence were staunchly guarded against all that was evil by the protecters at the Fresh­man Year ofStudies. 
Imagine thinking that the reason why every Chemistry 115 student received the same quiz was because it made grading so much easier. Surely it was obvious that these were tests ofcharacter, not chemistry. 
Academic competition motivates students to work harder, learn better, and struggle more to achieve that precious academic edge over their peers. Unfortunately, this competi­tion also breeds backstabbers and cheaters. 
As a tutor for Freshman Chemistry, my job was supposedly to help failing students become more proficient at learning the sub­ject matter. Most students enrolled in these tutorial sessions were not "F" students, but rather, "B" students struggling to obtain that competitive edge. 
Asadder point was that some students were not interested in learning chemistry, but in learning how to get the coveted "seven" on the weekly quiz. In so doing, these overac­hievers denied proper instruction to the stu­dents with real problems. 
When a person steals answers on a quiz, the cheater is the only person harmed; when a stu­dent steals the opportunity to learn from an­other student, this is a greater offense. 
But wait... let us not forget that this is as close to paradise as an earthly paradise can be...where freshmen and teachers are above reproach...well, at least backstabbers here do not have long hair. 
Ted Underiner Senior 

Alcohol and exams 
Dear Editor: 
There seems to be two controversial issues receiving attention on this page during these past weeks: the campus alcohol problem and the campus cheating problem. 
Many members ofthe student body, faculty, and administration agree that there is some form ofabuse regarding both these problems. A major concern ofthese persons is that both abuses have been readily accepted as part of the everyday life at Notre Dame. 
Since the administration feels that the best way to handle situations such as these is to take away the source of the problem (e.g. taking care of the alcohol problem by taking away alcohol). I feel that the administration should remain consistent in its behavior by simply doing away with all exams as a solution to the cheating problem. 
Tim Reilly junior 

Campus comments: What is your favorite building on either campus? 
Holy Cross is definitely my favorite. Cushing, because I don't have any Pasquerilla East, because my future Any building except Flanner or The North Dining Hall -I hate It has so much character and really classes there. wife lives there. Grace. I can't understand why a surprises. feels like home. place like Notre Dame built such 
eyesores. The North Dining Hall is ugly also. 

Kathy Watry -86 Mike Flaherty -87 Derek S. Gandy -86 Mike Prados -87 PattyTalamo-84 Nursing Freshman Year ofStudies American Studies Program ofLiberal Studies Science Pre-professional Saint Mary's College Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame 

Editorial Board  Department Managers  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556  (219) 239-5303  Editor-in-Chief . ......... Bob Vonderheide  Business Manager .......... Dave Taiclet  
Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh  Controller ................ Maripat Horne  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the  Executive Editor . ....... Margaret Fosmoe  Advertising Manager ........ Jeanie Poole  
University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily  News Editor ............. Sarah Hamilton  Circulation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill  
reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as  News Editor ............ Dan McCullough  Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams  
accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion  Saint Mary's Editor ..... Anne Monastyrski  
of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, lettElrS anp the IQside Column  Sports Editor . ........... Michael Sullivan  
present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters,  Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote Features Editor .............. Mary Healy  Founded November 3, 1966  
is encouraged.  Photo Editor . ............... Pete Laches  


Showcase 
Tuesday, April3, 1984-page 6 
Strange days indeed 

Trash bin treasures 
by Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 
D ummaging through the Ohsen•er's assorted trash buckets 
ft.,ometimes produces interesting results, more interesting than 
one might tl·nd to believe. Below all the crumpled-up paper balls, 
brokl'n Pl·ncils and USl'd-up pens, old homework assignments and 
Snickers wrappers, there lie written words the average person at 
Notrl· I>aml' nevl·r sees. 

Particularly ifyou'rl·looking through the goodies in the trash can 
next to Viewpoint editor·~ de~k. 

That rubbish consists of those letters to the l'ditor that had the 
misfortune to be shunned by thOSl' responsible for choosing what's 
fit to print. And. so, as a publk sl·rvke to the Notre Dame community 
who haVl' thl· right to know the opinions ofsonu: ofThe Ohser11er's 
rt·aders, here's a samplingofsoml· ofthe treasures discovered at the 
holtom of the wastebasket. 
lkar EdilOr: 

Recently I had the opportunity to spend three weeks stayingwith my hrothn in Gracl·, and I certainly must say that I can't figure out what l'Veryone is complainingabout. The music played on the South lknd radio stations was great, and, after nearly a month oflistening to those vibes, I'd like to tell everyone that they're just a hunch of spoiled brats. Tht· music is perfect as far as I'm concerned. 
Ronnie Smith 
1/arrismz Ciratle School 
Lincoln, Nebraska 
Dear Editor: 

Can't anyone ever get any privacy? I'm gone for five minutes, and 
all ofa sudden everyone wants to know where I am. Well, ifyou must 
know, I've been sick, and I'm in the darn bathroom. I'll be out in a 
minute. Sheesb. 
The Beef 

In a Wendy's restroom somewhere in America 
Dear Editor: 

I've hct·n reading entirely too much about the alleged cheating in Dr. Emilllofman's l'hcmistry class, and I'll have you know I'm pretty uarn sick ofit all. The possibility ofstudents cheatingat Nmre Dame really burns me up, and personally, I'd do anything to lead the case against students like that if I could only figure out a way to pass my U>AT and become a lawyer. 
Will Cht'C.'tC 
Pan}(bonz Hall 
L#oUl.J 
Dear Editor: 

I read a kw months ago about all the hype that went on your campus due to the popularity ofCap'n Crunch, and as a concerned citizen, I think the whole thing was a big mistake. I happen to know the Cap'n personally, and he's about as had as they come. Yeah, just ask him to tell you some of the things he did in lit. Lauderdale over hrl·ak. What a dirty old man. Also, if possible, I'd like to come to your S<.'hool to conduct a seriesoflectures on his lewd behavior. Can this he arranged' 
The Lucky Charms Leprechaun 
On gnJcery store she/11es everywhere 
Dear Editor: I've come to a conclusion. Parietals are useless. I mean, think about it. lf]oe and Mary fall asleep injoe's room and arc caught after 
2:00 doing nothing but sleeping, they still get in trouble. But if people arc gonna have sex, they don't have to wait until after two in thl· morning to do it, right? Consider this: two people can meet at a party and decidt· to have sex at H:30. 9, and every halfhour after that until paril'tals.l do it all the time. 
AI Wyzretti 
Someu•bere 011 campus 
Dear Editor: 

My son receives The Ohserr•er at home, and as I was paging through some oftht· old issues, I happened to notice some of the photo spreads you ran ofthe Space ShuuleColumhia. If! wanted my son to sec all ofthat space stuff, I'd send him offto sec "Return ofthe Jedi," which I don't let him do either. Kids have too much on their dirty young minds nowadays to be seeing nonsense like space voyages and the like. Please cancel our subscription. 
Mrs. Bea llyndthctymcs 

A disgusted mother in Peru, lndiaua 
Dear Editor: 

The FarSide cartoon which ran the other day about anteaters of the future was totally inaccurate and untrue. You sec, there won't be any anteaters in the futurc.l'm going to take my M-16 and blast them all to extinction when I get ouua this dump, and ifanyone thinks I'm kidding just let them try and stop me. 
Sy Copathc 

An Army ROTC living in a treuch 
Q 
What was born on a rainy af­
: ternoon in 1979 in Montreal, Canada? 
A: Trivial Pursuit, an adult board game that Scott Abbott and Chris and John Haney hope will be their "million dollar baby." 
Abbott and Chris Haney, former Canadian journalists, got the idea to invent their own game while playing Scrabble. It took the two less than an hour to design its basic structure. 
The object of Pursuit is to move around the wheel-shaped board by rolling a die and then answering a question. There are six categories of questions: geography, history, art and literature, science and nature, entertainment, and sports and leisure. There is a special space on the board that corresponds to each of these categories. A player obtains a marker by answering the question correctly when he lands on such a space. A player must collect a marker from each category and then travel to the center to win. 
Sounds pretty simple, right? Just answer six little questions and get to the center. No big deal. 
A definite misconception. This is where the "adult" aspect of the game comes into play. There are 1,000 questions for each category, 


Movies 
by Paul Cimino 

features staff writer 

W
hat is it like to fall in love with a 
mermaid? Well, ifyou are in­

terested in acquiring an answer to 
this question, "Splash" is the movie 
for you. 
"Splash" is a wonderfully funny and delightful movie about a New Yorker named Alan Bauer (played by Tom Hanks) who has his dreams fulfilled. Alan shares ownership ofa New York-based fruit and vegetable supply company with his brother (played by John Candy from SClV). The business is doing great, but Alan's life has taken a plunge. Sad­dened by the fact that he has no one to love, Alan plods around in a dejected state for the frrst 1 5 minutes ofthe film. After taking an extremely costly cab ride from New York City to Massachusetts, Alan falls out ofa small motorboat into the hay (I won't tell you what he was doing there in the first place) and because he has never learned to swim, sinks slowly to the bottom. 
Enter our mermaid (swimmingly portrayed by Daryl Hannah) who rescues Alan and drops him on the shore where he awakens a few hours later. After giving him a quick kiss, the mermaid jumps back into the sea and leaves Alan standing alone on the beach with a bunch ofquestions. 
A few days later, the mermaid shows up in the buffat the Statue of Liberty where she causes quite a scene. When she is arrested by the police, Alan's wallet is found in her possession and he is immediately notified. Alan picks her up at the police station and takes her to his apartment. Throughout the course ofthe following days, Alan educates her, names her Madison and falls deeply in love with her. 
Life is not all peaches and cream for this couple, however, as they are continuously pursued by a crazed 



In pursuit of fac 
by Kathy Schubert 

features staff writer 


and the answers are not obvious. 
Trivia buffs feel this game was made for them. Finally something to challenge the intellect. That's some­thing you can't say about video games or Dungeons and Dragons, which relics mainly on imagination. 
Pursuit has been called the most successful game to come along in the last 30 years. So far this seems ttl be holding true. Stores have been selling out the 540 game as fast as they get them in. Translations of the game are being marketed around the world, and a second supplement (the original is called Genius I) called Silver Screen is already available in the U.S. Also due out soon arc two othersupplements, All­Star Sports and Baby Boomer. Baby Boomer will contain questions span­ning the 19SO's through the early 1970's. 
The appeal of Pursuit is obvious. It's a great get together game in that anywhere from two to 24 people can play. It's a lot offun, but it may have an adverse effect on your ego. Remarked one student, "I always considered myselfpretty intelligent, but after an hour and a half(of A roomful of Notre Dame students pur Trivial Pursuit) I'm not so sure." But right, are Karen Russell, Teresa Barker, A. don't let that stop you. Left to right above are Nick Wiggins, A tic 
Splash -unreal but a111using 
scientist ( played by Eugene Levy, another SClV veteran) who is trying to prove to his peers that Madison really is a mermaid. 
Being a hometown Noo Yawk boy, I immediately knew that I had a good flick on my hands when I noticed that the opening scene was filmed on the Staten Island Ferry. But don't get the idea that this film is only for New Yorkers. On the con­trary, it is a film for anyone who en­joys a good laugh. 
The acting is ofa high caliber and each of the four ofthe major charac­ters' roles are written and portrayed in such a manner as to augment the efforts of the other three. Tom Hanks is exceptional as Alan. He definitely succeeds in playing the straight role to Daryl Hannah's naive humor. Hannah is also very goob as the beauty from the sea. And w.at more needs be said about the t.nts ofCandy and Levy who have been mainstays ofthe Second Gty Te'levi­sion Network for years. Their raucous and quick-witted humor keeps the action moving at a fast and funny pace throughout the film. 
The story suffers slightly from un­believability at times, but come on; this is a movie about a guy who falls in love with a mermaid; the whole premise is just a link overboard. 

Despite this fact, "Splash" is won­derfully entertaining and worth the price ofadmission. One word of advice: Buy your popcorn and soda before the show starts becaus~ every minute is filled with laughs and fun which you won't want to miss. Rated P.G. for Pretty Good! 

A New Orleans musician blows his clarinet as part ofthe Preser­vation Hall Jazz Festival, sponsored by the Saint Mary's Perfor­ming Arts Series, which took place Friday night at O'Laughlin. 

sue their pastime pleasure with the hottest game on the market. Top, left to rm Seeley, Kathy O'Brien, Kathy Martin, Katy Stephan, and Stephanie Siegel. 
~Groner, Jeanne Bowman, Ed Mulholland and Dan Lally. 



A new di01ension to Jackson 
by Gerry Bernat 

stone and wood hall using digital systems. The recording quality of 
J
features Staff Writer Body and Soul is excellent. --------------------..:':;...__________ As a whole, Body and Soul is oe jackson fans will be surprised if Like his music,JoeJackson's lyrics much more instrumental tha..'lJoe not, perhaps, aghast at his latest ef­have matured markedly since his Jackson's earlier albums. Most ofits fort,Body andSoul. Once bitter and early albums. Body and Soul songs ire able to stand up by them· cynical, Jackson has become per· delivers a much more personal selves, but are better taken as parts sonal and hopeful in his music, message thanJackson fans have ofthe whole album. Likely can­which has developed and matured heard before, as a closer picture of didates for radio airplay are "The both musically and lyrically since his the artist is allowed to develop. "The Verdict," "Be My Number Two," and earlier work. Verdict" seesJackson's cynicism "Happy Ending," a cute boy-meets­
Body andSoul follows musically melt away as he gropes for what he girl duet. These three songs seem to along lines rooted in Jackson's last knows to be right amidst frailty, in­have enough lyric to attract radio­two albums, in whichJackson decision, and fear. "Go for It" dis­listener interest, whereas other cuts 
showed his ability with 40's and SO's plays an optimistic side of)oc may prove to be too instrumental. era jazz and the clean, more modern Jackson that has neverbefore shown Body andSoul is, like mostJoe sounds ofNight andDay. Jackson's itself in such clear terms. Jackson albums, different than all of 
musical expertise and maturity is WhileBody and Soul deals with his other work. This fact may com­prominent throughout the album, primarily the same themes thatJack-fort some disappointed fans who and is most pronounced in the last .son has written about in the past, won't appreciateJackson's musical ·two songs, "Be My Number Two" glaringly absent are the bitterness progress. It seems to be taking him and "Heart oflce." and cynicism that once colored farther away from his earlier expres­"Be My Number Two" is a song Jackson's point ofview and that arc sions ofbitterness and cynicism, about love and hope threatened by evident in the well-played "Is She which so accurately exposed many cynicism and self-doubt, and Really Going Out With Him?" from human wants, weaknesses and disap­features an impressive combination Look Sharp! In looking at how we pointments without giving in to oftenor sax and violin, which brings treat one another and ourselves, Joe these personal stumbling blocks. the clean and musically superb song Jackson has, apparently, grown up By Gerry BernatBody and Soul, Joe to a close. Liberal use ofsaxes, violin, and accepted the imperfection of Jackson Graham Maby, bass; Vinnie trumpet, and piano givesBody and life. Zummo, guitar; Ed Roynesdal, 
Soul a full, well-orchestrated sound. Much ofwhatJoeJackson tries to keyboards and violin; Tony Aiello, "Heart oflee" closes the album on accomplish throughBody and Soul saxes and flute; Michael Morreale, an upbeat and positive note which is is written in an explication ofthc al­trumpet and fluglehorn; Gary Burke, 
primarily instrumental, and is in­bum printed in generously super­drums; Ellen Foley an Elaine Cas­dicative ofwhereJoeJackson stands lative terms on the back ofthe cover. well, vocals; JoeJackson, vocals, musically. Most ofthe album was recorded in a piano, sax. Aand M Records 
Dancin' Irish not just a sideshow 

Dancin' Irish member Jill McPartin is cuddled by the Chicago White Sox mascot-

by Tracy Oakes 

features staffwriter 

T
he Dancin' Irish, a squad of NO and SMC girls who perform to the tunes ofsuch singers as Michael Jackson, The Cars, and George Ben­son, arc in the process ofsteppin' out into areas other than the home basketball scene. 
The squad, composed ofsixteen or seventeen girls, is best recognized for its performance of various dance routines during halftime at NO varsity basketball games. They are, however, involved in other activities which extend beyond these occasional, briefper­formances. In fact, the character of the Dancin' Irish, shown in their en­hancement ofcampus spirit and en­tertainment and their promotion of unity between schools, is that ofone ofthe more dedicated and social or­ganizations on campus. 
Preparation for events begins with a two day clinic which instructs all prospective Dancin' Irish can­didates on the choreography oftwo dance routines. During the tryouts which follow these clinics, the girls arc judged by a committee on their ability to master one of the routines and on their showmanship. After ac­ceptance, the squad follows a rigorous schedule which includes a one or two hour daily workout finishing with a final videotaping 
with the help ofSaint Mary's Assis­
tant Athletic Director Tim Dillon. 
All routines performed by the 
squad are choreographed on a 
volunteer basis through group in­
put. So far, aside from home basket­
ball games, the Dancin' Irish have 
participated in such activities as the 
homecoming parade, dancing on the 
quad, selling programs before foot­
ball games, and on occasion 
performing at halftime during a NO 
soccer game. 
Co-captains Cheryl Diaz andJill McPartlin agree the season has been successful, with the exception ofa few unforeseen problems. These problems began with the loss of their moderator,Jan Bishop, and the lack ofa replacement_ 
When asked about the effect on the squad ofcoping without a moderator, Patty Whitehouse, a two year veteran, commented that Bis­hop had never closely associated with or assisted the squad. The cap­tains had always been self-sufficient and responsible for coordinating ar­rangements for games and choosing uniforms. 
Without the authority ofa moderator, the squad faced various scheduling problems due to a lack of voice in the athletic department_ Eileen Hogan, also a two year mem­ber, expressed frustration over the apparent apathy on the part ofthe department, which resulted in the squad being denied the opportunity to perform at the best attended games. 
To further complicate matters, the Dancin' Irish were forced to operate without University funding, although they did receive asssis­tancc from Saint Mary's College. 

The squad is optimistic with regard to the future. Their main ob· jectivc is to broaden their horizons and to overcome some ofthe dif­ficulties encountered this year. 
An important priority this year is the quest for a "home base" offering guidance and representation to authority. Such guidance could be found in departments other than Student Activities, with which they ue currently affiliated. Once this is 
tttained, the Dancin' Irish hope to :xpand their performances into Jther areas, possibly including NO ;occergames ordance recitals in the South Bend community. 
In any case, the Dancin' Irish are truly a dedicated and professional gr<JUp, willing to make the sacrifices and committmcnts necessary for quality performances. With the con­tinued support ofthe student body, (and the hope ofa new sound sys­tem), the Dmcin' Irish look toward continued expansion into other ac­tivities while always remaining Notre Dame basketball's "halftime show." 

r 
I I 
Sports Briefs 
A Bookstore Basketball scorekeepers' meeting will be held tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theater. Anyone interested in scorekeeping for the tourney, includ­ing those already signed up, should attend the brief meeting. Those who cannot attend should call Cathy Chopp at 6293. -The Ob­
server 

Aerobic Exercise Instructors for next year are being sought by NVA. Qualified applicants should contaet the NVA office this week. -The Observer 
An interhall tennis tournatnent will be sponsored by NVA on Sunday, April 8. Students interested in this all-day event should contact their hall athletic commissioner for in­formation about their hall's team. Rosters must be submitted by 5 p.m. Apri14.-The Observer 
Major league baseball will be the topic ofdiscus­sion on SpeakingofSports tonight on WSND·AM 64 at I 0 p.m. Join in the lively conversation by calling 239-6400 or 239-7425. -The Observer 
Keep training for the Irish Spring Run, a six-mile race around campus, the lakes, and the golf course. It's coming up Satur· day, April I4 at 10 a.m. Deadline for entries is this Friday. Registra­tion must be made in person at the NVA office, and a S3 fee will be charged. Trophies and t·shirts will be awarded. -The Observer 
Cheerleading tryouts will be held beginning tomorrow, with the ftrst clinic at 6 p.m. The first tryout will be held on Thursday, April 5, from 6-1 0 p.m. The second clinic will be held on Friday, April 6, at 6 p.m. Cheerleading finals then will be con­ducted, then, on Saturday, April 7, from 6-I0 p.m. All sessions will be held in the ACC Pit and the tryouts will be open for the public to watch on Thursday and Saturday. -The Observer 
Interhall lacrOSSe representatives who missed the Of· ganizatlonal meeting should call Rich O'Leary at the NVA office (239-6100)beforc Wednesday.-The Observer 
Tuesday, April 3, 1984 -page 8 
The squash Club will host a tournament April 6-8 for players at all levels. It is open to all students, faculty and staff. Sign· ups will continue through Thursday at the ACC courts. For more information, call Sean at 277-1405.-The Observer 
NVA Aerobics Classes are now underway at the and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4 p.m. Classes are held in Gym I ofthe ACC. -The Observer 
Women's Bookstore has 14 slots yet to fill for this year's tournament. Teams may signup on a first-come, first-served basis by calling Patty at 1313 or Kathleen at 16I8. -The Observer 
The ND Track teatn has a meet this Saturday. Anyone interested in helping with this event, please call Susan (x6738) or Jennie (x6865) by Wednesday night.-The Observer 
The ND Women's Track Teatnplacedfourth out of 17 teams at the North Park Invitational in Chicago last Satur· day. Jeanne Luther placed first in the discus and third in the shot put and javelin. Karen Takacs took third in both the 200-and 400-meter races. Rosemarie Luking placed third in the I500-meters, while Jennie Salvador was fourth in the 400-meter low hurdles. Cindi Short, participating for St. Mary's, placed second in the BOO-meters and third in the 3000-meters. The Irish return to action on Saturday for the NO Invitational. -The Observer 
Holy Cross Softball tournament action continues. Results so far: Moreau 6, St. Ed's 5; Morrissey 10, Moreau I; Holy Cross 4, Keenan 2; Flanner 6, Grace 3; Sorin I6, Cavanaugh 8; Flan­ner 7, Sorin 4; Zahm over Howard, forfeit; Dillon 11, Stanford 5; Pangborn 5, FisherO;Alumni 10, Off Campus 9; Carroll11, Alumni 7; Carroll 8, Pangborn 2. -The Observer 
Soccer and baseball officials are needed for the NVA spring season. Anyone interested should go to the NVA office at the ACC. -The Observer 
An Tostal innertube water polo still has a few spots left for your team. Signups will be taken on a first-come, ftrst-served basis at the Rockne Memorial pool, today from 6 to 8 p.m. Bring rosters, S7 fee and team name. -The Observer 
Tennis 
continued from page ll 
match," said junior Paul Najarian. "After Hawaii, in the locker room, you could sec that we all wanted it. We just said 'let's go for it!"'. 
The Irish got out to a quick start against the Bobcats, as Najarian won at fifth singles against John Knezevitch 6-1, 6-0 and captain Tim Noonan defeated Tim Bruin at fourth singles, 7-6 ( 7-3 ), 6-1. 
"I played really well today," said Najarian. "I seemed to pick up my form in Florida. Yesterday, I was so cold I didn't do well, so today I got psyched up for the match." 
"He (Knezevitch) got dis­couraged. He was a good player, but after I won the first set he let down. After yesterday, it felt good to come back and win." 
Even after his win, Noonan wasn't totally happy with his play. "I'm still not playing great," said the team qp­tain. "I played well on some pig points -that was the difference. 
1 

"He tried to come in on the second set, and I hit my passing shots real well. I think he might have been tired from playing this morn· ing (against Hawaii)." 
"I was not too pleased with our performance today," said Fallon. "We still made too many unforced errors. But we're playing much bet· ter doubles; we just need more practice." 
Tomorrow, Notre Darne will be on the road again, travelling to Bowling Green University. Last year the-Irish defeated the Falcons 7-2 at Courtney. 
"They are always tough at home," said Fallon, "last year we had a close match." 
,,fbe Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third flooM>f Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m.. M'l"­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five charac­





Classifieds 
ters erda . 

NOTICES  KODAK POCKET CAMERA WITH THE INITIALS TCJ AT HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY IN 704 P E IF YOU ACCIDENTLY TOOK  lmmediale part-time JOb with nearby in­surance office. Receptionist-typist 40 wpm: peppy personality. Pay $4.50 - TE WALTZ BALL IS BACK!I Try out your social dance skills from Freshman Yearl Come waltz with Strauss and swing  MACRI'S DEAD!! WILL BE BEAT!  THE  DELl'S  MEAT  HEY ROWE-MANCEII Happy ways. H  7thll /ll­ 
COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE -277-6045. W/p1ck up & deliver  IT. PLEASE CALL TERRI AT 4281. IF IT WASN'T TAKEN BY MISTAKE. PLEASE JUST SEND THE FILM THAT WAS IN IT TO 704 P.E. THANKS  hours flexible ­call Jim Lenox 272-0404.  w1th Benny Goodman! Chaulauqua. Fnday nighl. 8:30. Are lhe HABITS out of the wash yet?  TO li«le JIM B. FROM 227 DII.LON. THE GIRLS IN AUGUSTA TELL ME YOUR ANKLE ISN'T THE ONLY LIMP PART OF YOU. GROW UP.  Kann. HAPPY BIRTHDAY to the g1rl who 1s lhe best of everything. Thanks. Love. Jim  
TYPING AVAILABLE-287-4082  FOUND:  GIRL'S  KEY  CHAIN  WITH  FOR SALE  You Are Invited To" JESUS IN J E AU  PSYCHOLOGY  MAJORS  and  BEAUX ARTS....BEAUX ARTS..• .BEAUX ARTS  
GIVE ME THE LATE NIGHT CLUBII!IIII  LARGE GOLD HEART. FOUND IN STEPAN CENTER SUNDAY NIGHT.  
 S A L E M A SLIDE PRESEN­TATON/LECTURE BY JEROME M U A  perspective maJOrs: come lo lhe psych workshop Wed. 7:00. Li«le Theatre, La  Friday.  Apnl  6·  "STEREOTYPES,"  A  
CALLx1765.  FOR  SALE:  GREEN  OVERCOAT.  PH Y-0' C 0 N N 0 A, O.P. INTERNA­ Fortune. for career, grad school. and un­ Beaux Arts Ball 9:00-1 :30 Presale tickets  
NEED CASH? Eam $500& each school LOST: A fnend from Walsh. Hey. banana. year, 2-4 (ftexlbla) houro per wHk please find your way back placing and filling poatero on campus. Serloua workers only; we give recom~ LOST: Green SWING WEST w1nter jack­mendatlona. Call now lor oummer & et. REWARDIII Please call 3401 so my next fall. 1-800-243-8679. mom won't kill me! ANNE STRATION IS A WOMAN·GODI THE MOLES OF HOLY CROSS THANK FOR RENT YOU ONCE AGAIN HC RULES THE PARTY SCENE OF ND ALABAMA TIXIII Front row. but can'l go. HOUSES -FURNISHED • 1 MILE FROM Call Mark 6871 CAMPUS 4-6 BDRMS. 2 BATHS CALL 277-3461 Experlancad typlat will do typing. Cell 287-51112. I WANTEDI LOST/FOUND I L­.. -------' CHOOSE UFE FOR YOUR BABYI CONSIDER THE OPTION OF ADOP­LOST:ND MEN'S RING. LOST ON 3/15. TIONIINFERTILE COUPLE WANTS TO YELLOW GOLD, BLUE STONE WITH ADOPT INFANT. WRITE P.O. BOX ND ENGRAVED ON TOP MY NAME IS 53911, FT. WAYNE. IN 46805. ENGRAVED ON THE INSIDE. THERE IS A REWARD FOR ITS RETURN. CALL GOING MY WAY??? Huntington, Colum­JEFF AT 8854. THANKS bia City. or Ft. Wayne lor Easter Break can leave as early as Wed. noon. will pay Call Susan 4515  LARGE. IN VERY GOOD CONDITION MARINE SURPLUS. BEST OFFER­CALL PATIY AT 8654 ELECTRIC GUITAR· MINT CONDITION -CALL AFTER 5 233-9093 Collector's item -Iron bust Knute Rockne with sladium. lield, football, dates 1924­1929. Size 6x7. $100 or best offer. Con­tact V. Benjamin at 419-924-2907 or 283-7740. MAXELL UDXLII'S $2.60 CALL STAN 1!02 GREAT STEREO DEALS TOO. MAXELL's & TDK's $2.50. CALL MEAKS 277-3306 PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. SURPRISE I THE SUNSHINE BOYS ARE COMING II  TIONALLY RECOGNIZED NEW TESTA· MENTSCHOLAR TON I G HT. AP A I L 3 7:00 P M. H 0 W A AD HALL Theo Majors: Please attend the Special Lenten Prayer Service lor members of the'Theology Forum tonight, April 3 at 10:00 p.m. In the Howard Hall Chapel. THE CIRCUS IS COMING IN ONE DAY­OLD FIELDHOUSE MALL-NOON II you have a personal computer and a modem, you should lry our computer bul­letin board service. Several hundred users lrom all over MichiaRa and beyond to talk to and help solve your problems. For more information call Kangaroo Kon­cepts. Inc. at 277-5306. Free demonslralions available. Debbie, Thanks for keeping my secrell Bill Zllrfa, Yeah. Munster! Key road trip. Patty has NICE blue underwear! Seduclive Dan­cing. I didn't know that they.sold BOG at the Store? Placid stop sign! Let's play reslaurani-We'll prelend Scale owns Azar'sl  dergrad course mfo.! DAWN B. Since I've known you I've learned: 1) You have a SMILE which brightens up a room more than anything Edison ever came up with; 2) You know a 1001 ways to use CHOCOLATE: and 3) I hope WE can continue to see each other. There! Who said lawyers can'l be briefl YOUR SHORT LAWYER Oh to be back on the NORTH COAST where the BUZZARD rules lhe skies. SENIOR CLASS ADVISORY COUCIIL MEETING TONITE (TUES.) ALL MUST ATTEND. PLEASE BRING TICKET MONEY TO MEETING. MEETING IS AT 8:30 AT THE NEW ORLEANS ROOM IN LAFORTUNE. GROUND ZERO nuclear war education club, meeting tonight, 7 , Center lor Social Concerns. New membera -lcomad. JUST WHEN YOOU THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE TO WALK ACROSS THE QUAD­KIRK'S BIG BUTT RETURNS! CATCH IT AT A STANFORD HALL NEAR YOU I TALL. DARK. AND HANDSOME? AVAILABLE THE WEEKEND OF APRIL 14TH? SENIOR WENCHES HAVE BEEN DITCHED BY BOYFRIENDS AND  only If JACK DANIELS only knew how much she abuses h1ml When will she learn lo make wtnnable bets? Perhaps another bottle of V.O. not to say anything aboul THOSE EYEBROWS!­or lhose 'just fnends' dates I Watch out fpr the incredible shnnk1ng ha~rspraylll Slow Death is funnier. A Fnend FLORIDA SLAM I CANT DECIDE WAS IT DUFER. DO­FOUR, OR (OVER) DO-FOR IN FLA TEAR-BARE Joa Wagy ManGod of Fisher Hall-Happy Legalilyl D1z and Race Conrad, I'm Serial. Thanks lor a great weekend! Your favorite JAP DEAR KARIN, NO MATTER WHAT HAP­PENS OR WHAT YOU THINK, I LOVE YOU ALWAYS, PAUL NEED A RIDE TO CINCINNATI LEAVING WED4/4? CALL EMILE 3770 TO CATHY DAVID AND THE WRECK­ING CREW (ALIAS "THE STUDENT BODY"): THANKS FOR "VISITING" OUR ROOM. IT NEEDED A WOMAN'S TOUCH! THE VASELINE MADE  
LOST:A red wool sweater in O'Shag sometime before break. If found please call7101.  Come to Boaton lor the summer. Couples are -king mature persons to help with chlldcara and hou..hold  RICHARD J. BARNET ATTENTION: WE WANT TO BUY A BOOKSTORE TEAM POSmON WILL  Ann, That's a nice drawing ol you. Ill hang it up, you'll probably get lots of phone koalas I  ARE SEARCHING FOR SENIOR FOR­MAL DATES. INTERESTED? SUBMIT PROPOSALS TO MARCI, CHERYL. JENNY. AND LAURIE IN BADIN HALL.  THINGS A LOT EASIER (AND WE THOUGHT YOU WERE NICE GIALSII) YES, APRIL 1 IS A WONDEFUL DAY. I HOPE YOU LADIES WILL BE UP FOR A CHALLENGING SITUATION SOON.  
LOST A BLUE DOWN JACKET DURING LAST FRIDAY'S WALSH HALL PARTY BRAND NAME IS ASCENTE. CON­TAINS PRESCRIPTION GLASSES IN THE POCKET IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 283-3115 or RETURN TO 115 HO­LY CROSS HALL REWARD AND NO QUESTIONS ASKED I FOUND· GOLD CROSS PEN WITH  rasponalbllltles In exchange lor room, board and $125 net wHkly aalary. PleaM call Kate Goldfield at 817-162­7982 or wrlta: 283 Marrett Road, Lexi­ngton, MA 02173. NEED RIDE TO IU FROM 4/6 TO 418.CALL PAT AT 7374 N-rldato COMISKY PARK lorWhlta Sox Opening Game. lt'a thla Friday,  PAY EITHER $25 OR 2 CASES OF BEER. CONTACT CHRIS AT 8555 OR JOHN AT 3651. WE MEAN BUSI­NESSIIII ERNEST HOLLINGS FOR PRESIDENT MOCK CONVENTION '84 The Fiscally Responsible Candidate. DELEGATES, Take a Good Long Look Belore Choosing a dedicaled politician over a DEDICATED SERVANTIIIIII ERNEST HOLLINGS for  THINKFASTII Wednesday lunchlime fasl. that is. If you're one of the lasters, relieve those pangs of hunger through prayer. WHEN? Lunchlime, Wednesdays. WHERE? Meditalion Room of Center lor Social Concerns. See you there! TRICIA YOU'RE GORGEOUSIPLEASE CALL4666 FROM HOLY CROSS BAR­ FOURTH MALE ROOMMATE NEEDED OR CAMPUS VIEW APT. IF IN­TERESTED PLEASE CONTACT BRIAN AT 1238. ANAL/ANAL GENE DELAUNE is 19 todayll Call him at .7-J'U, os slap. by 355 Morrissey lo deliver personal b-day greellngsllll Dear Gene, Isn't it a TRIP lo be legal?!  BEWARE OF WATER BALLOONS. HOPE YOU ARE READY TO GET WETLOVE ROB AND HIS THREE PER­VERTED ROOMMATES. P.S. NEXT TIME NO VASELINE. ............. HEY ERINI What's happened since the Happy Hour? Geez, Lou1se -IL-youl Dr. HI/ P. Arlous  
WORDS: "ComVac" 1866TOCLAIM.  ON  SIDE.  CALL  April 8, PleaM Call Paul at 277-41151 or at 239-5313. Can laava anytlmal  PRESIDENT MAKING Iough decisions, nol AVOIDING them.  TENDER WI PIERCED EAR  SHADES.BANDANA  &  Your favorite Elizabeth.  sister.  Robin,  alias  I ~ Fille Mal Gardea La Fille Mal Gardea  

~·······~·-~·····-....................... .. ·-·-·.· ·.·.·.·.·,...·.· ..... . 
' ~ , .t ~ .• ~~· ~ ,. .• ,. ~ #' • • • • • ; I • • 11 ,.; 6 • 'll • 'll I I I I • l I I I I I l I l I I l I I I I I I l ' 
' 

The Observer 
Parker comes home, leads Reds past Mets 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Dave Parker delighted a hometown crowd with a two-run single, and Mario Soto baftled New York on seven hits as the Cincinnati Reds routed the Mets 8-1 yesterday in the traditional Na­tional League opener. 
Parker, a Cincinnati native who signed with the Reds as a free agent in the off-season, responded to a standingovation with a bases-loaded single in his first at-bat as the Reds scored three runs in the first inning off Mike Torrez and claimed their ninth opening-day victory in 11 years. 
Eddie Milner barely cleared the lowered eight-foot outfield wall with a three-run homer in the second inning that put the Reds ahead 6-1 and chased Torrez, I0-1 7 last season. Milner also had a single and a double in four at-bats to help the Retls win their first game under Manager Vern Rapp. 
Sotd, 17-10, a year ago with 242 strikeduts and league-leading 18 complete games, fanned eight while going fhe distance in a match-up be­tween the league's two worst teams of1983. 
The earliest NL opener in modern-day baseball history was played in a festive atmosphere before a crowd 46,000 on a sunny and mild April afternoon. 
Retired Reds catcher Johnny Bench led a traditional opening day parade though downtown and then was wheeled onto the field on a horse-drawn carriage. A fan from nearby Middletown, Ohio, chosen in a radio contest, threw out the ceremonial first pitch as elected of­ficias and other dignitaries crowded the field. 
Soto, who has never lost to the Mets in nine career appearances, made his third consecutive opening day start in style with two strikeouts in the first inning. 
Cincinnati then struck for three runs in the first inning, loading the bases with none out on Gary Redus' double, Milner's single and a walk to Dave Concepcion. 
Parker hit a ground single through a hole at second for two runs, and Concepcion scored when Dan Driessen hit into a fielder's choice. 
Darryl Strawberry, last season's Rookie ofthe Year, homered leading off the second, but Cincinnati ex­ploded for four more runs in the bot­tom of the inning. 
Dan Bilardello doubled and Soto, trying to sacrifice, placed a perfect bunt for a single. Milner then homered just inches over the right field wall, bringing on reliever Ed Lynch. 
With two outs, Parker singled and Driessen walked. Nick Esasky then hit an infield popup that the Mets surrounded but let drop for a double scoring Parker. 
~ 

SENIORS This is almost your lost chance to buy Senior Formal Tickets OnlyTODAYand TOMMORROW in LafortuneandLeMans 
Rent tuxes 4:30-6:30 
' 'jo\.\ \. 

<~>· Lafortune, from 5:00-6:30 
~· SUMMEll STOllAGI SPAOI 
Special discount for BD/8110 student• (5 x10 spaces and larger) CALL 259-0335 to USIIlVE SPACI SELF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKilfLEY 816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka SP.curity Patrol Checks 
PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS MANAGERS 
U. S: Navy Supply Corps has openings in training programs offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. Qualified applicants will receive 10 months paid training program leading to. immediate managerial positions in one of the following areas: 
* 
Systems ·inventory management

* 
Acquisition Contracting

* 
Computer Systems

* 
Financial Management 


_Starting salary $17,000 with benefits-rapid advance­ment. Qualifications: BA/BS degree or be within 12 months of graduation from college, B average preferred. U.S. citizenship a must. Age limHu.29. Call Navy TolLJ:r~_e 
. ' -h ..I •-.. -~-~~ ,. 

1·800·382·9782 
Navy representative on campus 10-12 April 
Tuesday, April3, 1984 -page 9 

AP PhOto 

Dave Parker (39) congratulates Dave Concepcion 
runs in theReds'8-1 opening day victory over the New after Concepcion's seventh-inning homer yesterday. York Mets. See story at left. Parker, making his Cincinnati debut, drove in two 
Reagan replaces Kuhn 
White Sox defeat Orioles 
Associated Press Reagan tossed out the ceremonial ftrst ball as a last-minute substitute BALTIMORE -Harold Baines for baseball Commissioner Bowie drove in three runs, and LaMarr Kuhn, then sat in the dugout of Bal­
Hoyt pitched the Chicago White Sox timore's defending world to a 5-2 victory yesterday over the pions for one inning Baltimore Orioles in an American departing by helicopter. League opener attended by Presi­A ftrst-inning home run dent Reagan. Ripken Jr., the league's cham­before 
by Cal Most 
JUNIORS 

SENIOR TRIP DEADLINE DEPOSITS DUE FRIDAY, APRIL 6 
Sign-ups in front of Student Activities Office in LaFortune: 
11:00 am to 1:00pm and 6:30 to 7:30pm Monday thru Friday 
Valuable Player of 1983, provided Baltimore's ftrst run off Hoyt, who won 24 games and the Cy Young award last season. Hoyt finally came out after 7 1-3 innings, having yielded seven hits, three by Dan Ford. 
Britt Burns earned the save for Hoyt, coming on after Ford and Rip­ken had singled with one out in the eighth. Eddie Murray then singled home Ford. 
The White Sox, last year's AL west Division champions, already had struck for two runs before Ripken's opposite field drive into the right field bleachers. 
Singles by Rudy Law and Carlton Fisk, and a ground out by Blines produced the first run off Scott McGregor, an 18-game winner last year. 
Chicago loaded the bases on 
walks to Greg Luzinski and Tom 
Paciorek before Fisk scored on a 
sacrifice fly by Ron Kittle. 
The White Sox made it 3-1 in the second when a sacrifice fly by Law scored julio Cruz, who had walked, ;tole second and took third on a .hrowing error by first baseman Murray. 
~···························....,
: AHention all juniors interested if in bartending during the • : 1984-1985school year: ! 
: .
. : 

: sE, t
:: ,..· I !
~) u •


i ~B1RR 
: : 
~ Applications for bartenders at the 
~ 

i 
Alumni Senior Club are now : 
available at Student Activities. •
: . 
• 

t...A!'.P.~:~~~~~~:~~~:.~~~~~~~~~6 
The Observer Tuesday, April 3, 1984 -· page 10 
Reserves propel Georgetown to top 
Associated Press 
SEATfLE -Georgetown has 
Patrick Ewing and Houston ha~ 

Akeem Olajuwon, hut the Hoyas are 
NCAA ha~ketball champions he­

cause they also have a host of 
reserves, led by freshmen Michael 
Graham and Reggie Williams. 
While Ewing was named the Most 
Outstanding Player in the Final Four 
after his personal hattie of 7-footers 
with Olajuwon, Williams and 
Graham carried second-ranked 
Georgetown to an 84-75 victory 

over Houston for the national cham­
pionship last night. 
"It's a fabulous feeling. We're elated to win the national champion­ship," said Coach John Thompson, whose team narrowly missed the title in 1982. "It's much"arder to get here than win one game for the na­tional championship. 
"Guy Lewis is an excellent coach. They've been to the Final Four three straight years." 
Thompson and his players 

embraced joyflly as the final seconds 
ticked off, the memories of the 
runner-up finish to North Carolina 
two years ago were wiped away. 
But it was sorrow again for Hous­

ton, which was upset 54-52 by 
North Carolina State a year ago. 
Olajuwon and his Cougar 
teammates sobbed on the bench a~ 
time ran out Monday night, before 
39,471 fans in the Kingdome. 
It was the first time since Ohio 

State in 1961-62 that a school had 
lost the championship game two 
years in a row. Houston also reached 

tht• Final Four in 1967, '68 and '81, 
hut has never won the title. 
The depth of the Hoyas, who finished 34-3, was never more evi­dent than in the final 7:35 ofthe first half. Ewing was on the bench with two fouls, while Olajuwon picked up his second and third personals. Olajuwon picked up his fourth foul less than a minute into the second half, and played tentatively the rest of the way. 
In winning their 1 1 th straight game and 21st of the last 22, the second-ranked Hoyas culminated the rebuilding program that Thompson began when he took ove a 3-23 club in 1972. The former backup center for the Boston Celtics has been criticized for some of his tactics on and off the court, but he said after the championship victory that "the bottom line is that my kids graduate." 
"I don't have a problem with people criticizing us," he said. "I'm not concerned with my critics." 
"I'm elated about winning the championship," Thompson t'on­tinued, "hut the hardest thing is to get here. Anyone can win one game." 
For a while, it looked as if it would he Houston winning that elusive 
"one game.n 
The Cougars, 32-5, hit their t1rst seven shots, including three field goals by Young and two hy Reid Get­tys to take a 14-6 lead. But George· town came hack to tie it at 14 and again at 16 before taking the lead for good. 
The Hoyas went into the locker room leading 40-30 at halftime he­hind a basket hy Jackson and two by Wingate. Tht·y led hy 12 twice early in the st·nmd half, the last at 44-32 hdore Olajuwon connected. 
While the Nigerian All-American was sitting down for six minutes,­Franklin picked up tht• slack with his jumper cutting tht· Georgetown margin to 51-4 7 with 13:56 to play. Franklin continued to drive the middle but tht· shooting of Williams and Graham held off the Southwest Conference champions. 
Houston three other times cut the margin to five points, the la~t on a tkld goal hy Eric Dickens to make it 72-67. The Hoya~ made good on the free-throw line down the stretch, as they snapped the Cougars' six-game winning streak. 
Houston could take some con­solation in rolling up 75 points against the lloya defense, which had held opponents to an average of5 7.4 points in previous games this season. 

Georgetown, champions of tht Big East, usually uses 10 players but ' had to do without standout defensive guard Gene Smith, who suffered a sprained right foot in a 53­40 victory over Kentucky in the semifinals Saturday. 
While Ewing was sitting down to avoid further foul problems late in the first half, Olajuwon picked up his second and third personals before sitting out the last 42 seconds of the half. This marked the first time in four tournament games that Olajuwon did not play the entire game. 
Ewing got his third personal with 
12:08 to go and Georgetown leading 55-49. But he went out for only about a minute just before Franklin's two free throws cut the Houston deficit to 57-54. 


Toronto Maple Leafs fire Nykoluk 
TORONTO -Mike Nykoluk, in his Maple Leaf Gardens office, un­described this season by Toronto available for comment. owner Harold Ballard as "too nice a There was no immediate com­guy" to fire, was told by the Maple ment from team officials concerning Leafs yesterday his contract will not Nykoluk's successor. Dan Maloney, 
be renewed for the 1984-85 Nation­an assistant coach, would be the like­al Hockey League season. ly heir. Another possibility is Roger 
But rather than call a news con­Neilson, a former Leafs' coach who ference about the move, word ofthe was released by Los Angeles yester­firing came during the club's annual day, several hours after Nykoluk was Molson Cup award presentation. let go. Nykoluk was expected to attend the Nykoluk appeared to be on his noon-hour luncheon, but remained way out from behind the bench as 

STUDENTSI WIN A FREE TRIP TO SAN DIEGO! Annquncing•••A Suitcase Party at Lee' 
Thurs., April 5, 5-7 p.m. 
Tickets ore S5 available from Senior Advisory Council members or in LeMon's (includes free admission to party, drinks provided) 
Trip for 2 leaves April 6, returns April 7 For more info, Call 283-1689 or 283-6280 
L • • 
• 

Saint Mary's English Department presents 
RICHARD TILLINGHAST 
author of The Knife and otherpoems 
A Reading from his Poetry Wednesday, April 4 8 p.m. Carroll Hall (in Madaleva) St. Mary's College 
• 
• 5 _..,•
r. • • 

long ago as the all-star break, but was given a vote of confidence at that time by Ballard. 
Team captain Rick Vaive, who registered his third successive 50­goal season for the Leafs to claim the Molson Cup for the third con­secutive time, said it was unfor­tunate the blame for the Leafs' poor performance this season had to rest on one person's shoulders. 
"It's everybody's fault," said Vaive, one ofthe bright spots on a club that finished last in the Norris Division with a 26-45-9 record. The 45 losses were the most ever suffered by the Leafs in one season. "It's unfortunate one guy has to lose his job over it." 
The club also was wracked by in­juries in every area for most of the season and the club Nykoluk had to work with put together three win­ning streaks all season -one offour games and two oftwo games. 
Wht Entg416 Dftltt<tfastlt 
Men's Hair Styling at Its finest 
(i-.. ., minutes from campus 
J__,._~ .~;'\ 


SPRING SPECIAL 
$5 Haircut only 
277-1691 


Haircut, Shampoo 
272-0312 
Blowdry 

offer only applies tO' male patrons Hrs: Tuea, Wed: 8:30-5:30 54533 Terrace 1:.ane Thur, Frl: 8:30-8:30 AcrOss from Martin's Sat: 8:()().2:30 Sf. RQ.23 Clo~Mon. 
* * * Candidate Debate*** 

A campus representative of present DemQcJatic hopefuls will give statements, 
debate issues. TUESDAY NIGHT, APRIL 3rd 7:00-8:00 in HAYES HEALY 

The Georgetown Hoyas won the NG4A Champion­ship last night by defeating the Houston Cougars, 84-75 in Seattle. Center Patrick Ewing (left) was 



~«:)cJ[(l~-------------------------------T_u_e~_a_y.,A.pr_n_3_,I_9s_4_-_p_a_~__ 
Bloom County 

Mellish 
Cf,ICK.. 
Ct.ICK .. . 
Wlfllff?R.. . Ct./C/r.. 


LOOI< AT THIS,LEO! 


WAIT AMINUTE, HUH(I HEV1 
11 APKIL FOOLS II)IA! GOT YOU. 
"A TRUL'I BRilliANT 

MElliSH. WHAT· WHitT'S THAT 
ACTIJAil~ I WAS FORm ro 
ESSJ1Y I YoU EXHIBIT FINE 

DGES TillS PROF. WRITTEN ON FlUNK YOU 51NI1 YOUR PAPf.R 
ll TERAI?Y DHTERITY I 

TALKING ABOUT 7 THE BACK Of 
LACKS NOT ONLV C~EAnVtf'l 
ESPECIAL! I/ ON PAGE II. 

YOU ONLV HAVE THE LAST ANP COMMoNSENSE, BUT ALSO
At." 

fEN PAGES! 
PRDPEk GNAMMAR AND INTf.lltGtllt:t. F.'' 
15HW? 

! 

/ftt:-::)1
II 
\\ 
I 

Guindon Richard Guin:lon The Far Side 

" 
•
.. 
An aerial photo which caught Eunice Benson 
Berke Breathed 


Dave 
!lA IUAI WIIAT TIIAT TEAlJIER 
A SENSE OF 15 AS 600{) 
J.IUMOR 11//5 AS [)fA{). 
GUV1S GOTI 

I 
I 
''~­
~.~ 
Gary larson 

emptying the trash In her bathrobe, just as she Humor at its lowest fqrJ1'1. 
..­
thought. 

Campus 
•12:15 
p.m. -Brown Bag Lunch, "A Faculty Conversation withJose Carlos Sebe," 1201 Library 

•12:25 
p.m.. -Economics Workshop, "Federal Deficits and the Economy," Library Lounge 

•1 
p.m. -Graduate Student Blood Drive, Stu­dent Health Center 

•3 
p.m. -Lecture, "The Phenomenological Ex­perience of the Home," Dr. Perla Korosec-Serfaty, Library Lounge 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Interstitial Diffusion and Microvascular Permeability in Normal Tissues and Tumors," Leonard E. Gerlowski, 356 Fitzpatrick 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Design With Nature: The Ecological Dimension," Prof Ian L. McHarg, An­nenberg Auditorium 

•4:
15 p.m. -Lecture, "The Brazilian Community: An Historical Perspective," Prof. Jose Carlos Sebe, 105 Law Building 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Transcription and Replication ofLaCrosse Virus," Dr. Jean Patterson, Galvin Life Science Auditorium 

•6:15 
p.m. -Graduate Student Women Sup­port Group Meeting, Wilson Commons 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture and Slide Presentation, "Jesus in Jerusalem," Jerome Murphy-O'Connor, O.P., Howard Hall 

•7 
p.m. -Lecture, "Cretaceous Wave-Dominated Delta, Barrier Island, and Submarine Fan Deposi­tional Systems of the Rocky Mountains: Clastic Models for Hydrocarbon Exploration," John K.. Valsley, 101 Earth Sciences Building 


7:30 p.m. -Organizational Meeting of the L-5 Society, 118 NSH, All interested persons are welcome 
•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Michelangelo the Sculptor," Prof. Charles M. Rosenberg, 127 O'Shaughnessy 

•8 
p.m. -Concert, Laura McEvoy, Senior Piano Recital, Annenberg Auditorium 



TV Tonight 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 32 Assignments 60 Particle 11 Surface 1 Soak In 35 Object of 61 Dress 12 Breathe water devotion material hard 
6 Reminder 36 Ponderon 62 -boy! 13 Poker term 10 Parent 37 Standing 63 Ballerina's 14 Evansor out of concern 
Lavin water 64-Gantry 21 Small 15 Declare to 39 Fruit cake 65 Chestnut number be true 41 Freight horse 22 Jap. coin 16 Cum's land trailer 66 Otherwise 25 Gold cover 17 Artist's 42 Letters 67 Unkempt 26 Lanky stand 44 Student's person 18 Quote paper 28 lichen
DOWN 

19 Penny 45 Deep 29 lsdrowsy
1 Was not 20 Forbidding· furrows alert 30 Actor Joel looking one 47 Goddess of Me­
2 Crown 

22 Usea plenty 31 Wriggling
3 Follow 

glaclarlum 32 Nuisance
48 Sticky 4 Elysium23 To: Scot. 
stuff 5 Pallor 24 Eft 49 Lacerate 6 Long·talled 33 Heb. mea· 
25 Colloid 51 Tree of parrot 
sure Brazil 7 Forced to 34 Bespangled 26 Use needle 54 W.l.dance leave 35-fixe and thread 57 Redhead 8 Apportion 38 Resound 27 Superiority 59 Arrow 9 Mine output 40 Censures In rank poison 10 Sourone 43 Properties 
54 Fibber 46 Pigeon 55 Division sound word 47 Rowboat 56 "1-man adjunct with.•." 57 Indifferent 50 Delete 51 One at­58 Enameled 52 Propelled metal a boat 60 Native of: 53 Art of suff. mimicking 
Monday's Solution 


9p.m. 
9:30p.m. 10p.m. llp.m. 
11:30p.m. 

16 Riptide 22 CBS Special: Miss Teen USA 28 Three's Company 28 Shaping Up 
16 Remington Steele 
28 Hart to Hart 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
16 Tonight Show 
22 Magnum PI/McCloud 
28 ABC News Nightline 
©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, fnc. All Rights _Reserved 



S~orts 
Irish linebacking corps looks strong 
ByJOE BRUNEm 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame linebacker coach 

George Kelly should feel lucky. 
He has three high school all­Americans to fill two spots at inside linebacker for next year's football team. 
In addition to being highly touted out of high school, Tony Furjanic, Mike Larkin and Mike Kovaleski each ha'i proven his ability to per­form well in crucial situations. 
If there is one thing that the three lack, however, it is experience. Each of the three have only one year of experience on the starting defensive unit. 
"They're all young. They've only played one year (on the starting team)," says Kelly. "'But, their abilities arc far in excess of the total linebacking picture that I have had in yt·ars." 
To what degret: the Notre Dame lim:backing corps will be able to dominate opponents depends on whether Larkin returns to his forrrl of I982. 

Tony Furjanie 

Larkin had a banner sophomore sea'ilm in '82, making a second­leading I 12 tackles for the Irish. The 6-1, 221-pound, Moeller High School graduate broke his arm prior to the opening of last year's season and was forced to sit out the entire year. 
"Larkin's progress has heen fine. But, when you sit out a year, it sets you back," the veteran Irish mentor 
notes. "It's not like starting over, but 
it knocks you out of your groove, 
and Mike is finding it hard to get 
back in the groove. Right now, he 
lacks the necessary timing." 
With Larkin forced to redshirt the 

'83 season, the Irish coaching staff 
called upon Kovaleski, then a fresh­
man, to fill Larkin's shoes. 
Kovaleski started the first nine 

games of the season before getting 
hurt in the Pittsburgh game. After 
sitting out the Penn State and Air 
Force games, he returned to start in 
the Uberty Bowl. 
"Not having Kovaleski in there 

really hurt us," Kelly says. 
The 6-2, 2I8-pound Kovaleski 

turned out to be the surprise of the 
defensive unit last season, finishing 
third on the team in tackles with 62. 
"Kovaleski is a real competitor," 

praises Kelly. "He surprised us last 
year. He learned fast, but more im­
portantly, he performed well under 
pressure." 
The mainstay for the Irish at middle linebacker will be junior-to­be Tony Furjanic. Besides having to meet the need to excel a'i a player, the role of a leader may also fall on the shoulders of the OJicago native. 
"I would hope he'll be a leader," Kelly says ofhis 6-2, 23I-pound star. "He's not the type to speak out. In· stead he leads by example." 
As a freshman, Furjanic earned a monogram through his impressive play on special teams. He had a stel­lar season in 1983, leading the Irish defense with 142 tackles, and start­ing all 12 games. He also shined in the Liberty Bowl, garnering a pass in­terception and later being named the Notre Dame defensive MVP. 
"He's had an outstanding spring. He ha'i started where he left off last season," comments Kelly. "His abilities at ths point are on par with the Zavagnins and Crables." 
One problem Kelly will fdce is what to do with all the talent and on­ly two starting positions to fill. 
''I'm not sure," says Kelly. "It's still too early to tell, but one may play outside linebacker." 
With all of the talent Kelly has available, the inside linebacking positions again will be a strong suit for the Irish. 
Tuesday, April 3, 1984 -page 12 

returning, the lineiJackers appear to be the strongest unit on the Irish defense. joe Brunetti takes a look at the promising picture at left. 
Overcome slow start 
Lacrosse team defeats Kenyon 
By MIKE SULLIVAN could win the game because of our Notre Dame lead when it scored at Sports Editor conditioning." the I3:38 mark of the third quarter Which is pretty much what hap­to close to two, 8-6. However, the 
The ultimate goal this year for the pened. Kenyon surprised Notre Lords ran out of gas as tht· Irish Notre Dame lacrosse team is to win Dame by scoring the first two goals scored the next nine goals of the the Midwest Lacrosse Association ofthe game and holding the 2-0 lead game. By the time Kenyon scored its title, so, although games against the until I 0 minutes were gone in the next goal (with 2 5 seconds left in Dukes and Georgetowns are impor­first quarter. the game), the outcome was no lon­tant, the MLA contests are the games Then the depth of the Irish ger in doubt. that really matter. This pa'it seemed to pay off as they exploded Pearsall and Trocchi were ob­weekend, Coach Rich O'Leary's Irish for four goals in the last five minutes. viously the offensive stars for Notre took a step in the right direction by Sophomore Tim Corrigan started Dame, each adding an assist to go pounding Kenyon Collegt4 17-7, in things going with an unassisted goal with his five goals. For Trocchi, the their MLA opener. and Don Gayhardt tied the score I 5 output brought his totals through 
Notre Dame used its superior seconds later. Bob Trocchi and four games to 13 goals and three as­depth to an advantage against its Steve Pearsall finished off the sists, putting him in position to chal­hosts. The Irish gradually turned a scoring in the quarter. lenge the Irish goal-scoring record. close game into a rout by pulling Pearsall added his second of five Steve IJnehan set the record of42 in away in the second half. goals to give Notre Dame a 5-2 lead I982. 
early in the second quarter, bm The offense was not limited to just 
"We used a lot more players than Kenyon rebounded, scoring two un­Pearsall and Trocchi, though. Tom they did," said O'Leary. "We tried to answered goals to close the gap to Grote and Joe Franklin each con­run, be aggressive, and wear them one. tributed a goal and two assists, while down. I did feel we had a better "They were able to stay in the Kevin Rooney and Gayhardt added team, but if things went wrong, like game because their few shots went two goals apiece. them getting ahead, then I felt we in," explained O'Leary. "We were On defense, Rob Simpson started 
controlling the ball so well on of­in the goal and came up with eight 
fense that we fell asleep on defense." saves. Pat Poletti and Brian McKeon 
The teams traded goals late in the contributed a save apiece in relief. half to make the score 6-5, but then while Stevt· Cloud led a defense that the Irish suddenly turned the game had to play without one of its stars, around in the closing seconds. With Justin Shay, who missed his second 25 seconds left in the half, Pearsall straight game with a thigh hruise. scored his third goal of the game. Notre Dame will now take its 2-2 Then, with one second left on the record to Lake Forest tomorrow in clock, Trocchi picked up his third of what O'Leary hopes will be a good five goals to increase the halftime tune-up for Saturday's crucial test lead to 8-5. against Ohio Wesleyan in Delaware, 
Kenyon made one last run at the Ohio. 
Men's tennis team gains weekend split 
ByED KONRADY The cold winds seemed to affect Sports Writer the Irish more than Hawaii. "I was disappointed in our play," said Battling gusty, chilling winds, the Coach Tom Fallon, "especially men's tennis team split a triangular against Hawaii with the weather in match last weekend at Courtney our favor. We lost four matches with Tennis Center. a 6-1 first set or worse. This tells me 
The Irish dropped a 7-2 decision that we didn't get used to the wind to the University of Hawaii Friday, before the match. l'm very disap­before regrouping to defeat a tena­pointed in that." cious Ohio University squad, 6-3, on After Friday's disappointing Saturday. showing, which ended a three­
The victory raised the Irish record match winning streak, the team to 10-6, halfWay to their sixth con­showed up Saturday determined to secutive 20-win season. make amends. 
Earlier Saturday morning. Hawaii "Everyone wanted to win this 

joe Hart ( 17), Dwayne Hicks (30) and their Notre soundly defeated Kenyon College, 17-7. See Mike Sul­improved their record to 31-3 after a 
see TENNIS, page 8

Dame teammates overcame a slow start Saturday but livan's story above. 6-3 victory over the Bobcats. 






