P--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Election preview -page 8 


Indian students mourn Indira Gandhi's death with memorial service 
By TOM MOWLE Many Sikhs live in Punjab, a pro­DayCbtef ductive agricultural region; Dighe said they feel they are not getting as The India Association of Notre much as they contribute from the Dame sponsored a memorial service central government. He said the na­Saturday afternoon to mourn the tional budget is allocated according death of Indian Prime Minister In­to the number of seats a state ha.., in dira Gandhi. parliament, which is based on popu­
"Everyone realized that she was lation. the only one who could handle the "Gandhi could not give in to their problems ofgovernment," said asso­reasonable demands because she ciation member Rajiv Dighe. would then be forced to give in to 
Gandhi was assassinated Oct. 30 others," Dighe said. by two Sikh bodyguards. "She made it impossible for the 
University President Father moderates to win, so extremists Theodore Hesburgh, the featured took over. They used religious dif­speaker at the service, said, "Your ferences to arouse public senti­prime minister did not fear death; ment." she was willing to accept whatever Denis Goulet, holder of the came and would go on." O'Neill Chair in Education for 
Minister Indira Gandhi. The prayer was part ofa 
Hesburgh noted that Gandhi had Justice, compared Gandhi to Abra­said '"It is just as good to die stand­ham lincoln. "She wanted to ing up as laying down."' Hesburgh preserve the national union as multi­

No one else has command needed 
expressed his wish for peace in India ple tensions threaten to split the na­and the world. tion apart." He said the challenge for "Indira Gandhi loved her country India is to survive and maintain its 
dearly," said Meena Khoran, English democracy now.

to match job Gandhi did, says prof 
professor at Indiana University­A visitor from India who was ac­ByJOHN MATTHEWS him" to replace his mother, accor­versies lying beneath the present South Bend. "She worked selflessly tive in the freedom struggle with News Staff ding to Pullapilly. hostilities, the outlook is not as toward a strong and united India. On Mohatma Gandhi, Man Mohan 
Indira Gandhi originally had been bright, according to Pullapilly. The the eve of her death she said she Chaudhary, said her death is 
No one else has the command preparing her youngest son, Sanjay, current fueding between Sikh ex­'would be proud to die for India.' Let "another step in the erosion of needed to match the job Indira to follow her as leader of India until tremists and the Indian government her death and sacrifice not be in human values" in the world, com­Gandhi did in keeping. India's he died in a plane crash in 1981. does not appear likely to subside, he vain." paring it to the attack on Britain's diverse religions living in peaceful Only then did Rajiv take the position said. Several speakers expressed dis· Margaret Thatcher several weeks coexistance, according to Cyriac ofsuccessor, Pullapilly said. "The radical element of the Sikhs may at the rioting and looting that ago. Pullapilly, associate professor ofhis­As for the rioting currently taking will not be satisfied with anything has followed her death, killing Dighe said it may be to India's ad­tory at Saint Mary's. place in India, Pullapilly predicted less than the secession" of the Pun­hundreds. Notre Dame student Ar­vantage that Gandhi's son Rajiv, the 
Pullapilly was born and educated "one more moment of high emo­jab district in northern India, home vind Arora said, "My grief is only fur­newprime minister has "no political in India, and is active in lndi:otn tion" would occur after Gandhi's fu­of the majority of India's 13 million ther accentuated as I hear of the experience" because "Indian politics. Last September, as part of neral Saturday. Then it will be Sikhs, said Pullapilly. hundreds ofinnocent victims killed politicians are corrupt." Saint Mary's Semester Around the "hopefully followed in a couple of But India "can't afford to give in this senseless frenzy." World program, Pullapilly talked days or weeks" with a restoration of them independence," as it would According to Dighe, there is no Dighe said several months will be with Gandhi for over two hours. The order. not be a "good precedent" to show historical hatred between Sikhs and needed to calm the peopledown. He subject of the Punjab secessionist "The government is taking all nec­the other twenty states of India, ac­Hindus. The cause of the problems added that Rajiv Gandhi has "a very movement was one ofthe topics dis­essary measures to protect the Sikhs. cording to Pullapilly. in India, he said, is that India's states progressive outlook, and will en· cussed. Curfews have been placed over the Also, the Punjab is the "food­are organized along linguistic courage the technocrats" in India. 
Rajiv Gandhi, son oflndira Gandhi major cities to discourage violence. basket" oflndia, and "the Sikhs have boundaries rather than the geogra­Because ofher death, the India As­and successor to the rule of India, The people are understandably up­said they wouldn't trade with India if phic lines left by the British. sociation has cancelled their annual has had. a "rather brief history in set," he said. This has caused many states to dinner held during Diwali, the 
see GANDHI page 3
politics...it might be difficult for But as for the long-term contro-seek greater autonomy. Hindu festival oflights. 

Mondale close to Reagan only in office space in LaFortune 
By MICHAEL}. CHMIEL Healy, who transformed the pictures of Ronald Reagan. Our ef­StaffReporter former student government storage forts have been more constructive room into a useful office, explained as far as the national Mondale­
As vicious as the presidential race that because of the LaFortune Ferraro campaign is concerned. has become, some degree of civility renovation, the space the two cam­"They're heavy on symbolism and has been maintained at Notre Dame, paigns are occupying has become I think we're heavy on getting out where both campaigns share a single prime. our message in a real way," Brogioli office in LaFortune Student Center. Because of the lack of space in ·said. 
Despite differences in beliefs and LaFrortune, the two groups were Initially, Healy and the Republi­strategies, both sides are satisfied also given a deadline to vacate the can campaign set up in the office and with their setup and have been area within two weeks after the elec­moved numerous forms ofparapher­proceding smoothly with their aims tion. nalia into it. Three weeks later, the to help their respective candidates As far as local plotting and cam­Mondalc people moved in and the get elected. paigning goes, neither side believes campaign was in full swing on the 
Bill Healy, campus chairman for that the sharing of space has ham­Notre Dame campus. the Reagan-Bush ticket, initiated the pered their efforts. "There has been, sometimes, search for office space at Notre "We did not make the initial effort animosity between workers," said Dame early in the semester. to get the office space (but) it was Healy. "People start making com­
"I asked ifthere would possibly be offered to us by the student govern­ments about the posters they have office space and they (the student ment," said Mike Brogioli, campus or we have, but that's natural and government) said that the only thing chairman for the Mondale-Ferraro we've handled it well. We've kept they had was this storage room," ticket. that out of the office." said Healy. "What we've been doing is con­
centrating on the Niles (Michigan) If the two campaigns would have 
"They said that we could have it if, area and Kalamazoo. It (the office) is been unsuccessful in securing any and only if, the other side gets equal mostly a stopping ground -basically space on campus for their efforts, space. That's only fair because the a storage and meeting place for us. both chairmen believe that the cam­student government ha.'i to be non­paigms would have been run locally partisan. We then worked it out so "I think that the office is, in a way, from dorm rooms with an equal that both sides would agree to use it symbolic because they've been con­amount of spirit and effort. Both, and not hurt anyone else's material," centrating on all oftheM: images and however believe the facility has he said. visual things and buttons and been helpful. 

Tbc Obscrver/1bom Bradley 
memorial service held for Gandhi on Saturday. Story at right. 


~------~-------~ -­
The Observer Monday, November 5, 1984 -page 2 

The Oregon Potato Conunission has am­
bitious dreams-including turning South Korea's 43 million people 
into french-fry addict5. Fast-food chains serving french fries are just 
beginning to sprout in the Asian nation's larger cities, said Rob_ert 
Sanders of the commission, so a seven-member trade delegatiOn 
from South Korea came to Boardman, Ore., last week at the agency's invitation to consider buying Oregon spuds. The commission con­cluded from marketing research that South Korea, in terms of fast food, is much likeJapan was 1 0 years ago, Sanders said. Today, Japan consumes processed potatoes in proportions rivaling Western na­tions, he said. S.Y. Jung. interpreter and spokesman for the South Korean delegation, said that when they first arrived he was skeptical that Oregon potatoes were unique. Three days later, he ~aid, "I have observed that if we need that kind of potato (suitable for process­ing), there is no other place to import it from." The potato commis­sion's dreams don't stop with South Korea, however. It hopes to introduce processed potatoes to all ofthe Pacific Rim nations, which have more than 458 million potential french-fry munchers. -AP 
Gossip columnists note:eight out of 10 Nebras­kans really don't care whether actress Debra Winger is going out with Gov. Bob Kerrey. In a Research Associates survey published in the Lincoln Sunday journal-Star, 83 percent of the 450 Nebraskans polled said they had no interest in the subject, 3 percent were very interested and 14 percent cared a little. Seventy percent said the governor's relationship with the star of "An Officer and a Gentleman" and "Terms of Endearment" would not affect Kerrey politically or were unsure what effect it would have, while 15 per­cent said it helped and 15 percent said it hurt, thejournal-Star said. ­
AP 
Shirley Weathers, the 62-year-old u.s. women:s col­legiate pool champion for 1984, says that no matter what the 1mage of the game, "it is played for the most part in a very gentlemanly fashion." The honor-roll nursing student at Triton College recently outshot 14 other women to capture the eight-ball title in an Ar­lington, Texas, tournament sponored by the American College Uni­ons International. Weathers, ofHarwood Heights, Ill., says men have an advantage ofheight and reach over women, but that doesn't stop her from winning mixed tournaments. Men "get uptight if they see you might beat them, and then they really fall apart," she said. She began playing the game after her husband's death in 1965 and joined a league "formed by women who wanted to get out ofthe house in the morning." -AP 
Of Interest 
Election Dayvotingwill rake place tomorrow from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Notre Dame campus voters are to vote at Stepan Center. Saint Mary's campus voters are to vote at Augusta Hall. Uni­versity Village residents are to vote at the Roseland Town Hall, 200 Independence Drive. O'Hara-Grace Townhouse residents are to vote at Little Flower School, 54191 North Ironwood Road. Voters are reminded that they must vote in their own districts and should get to the polls early to avoid crowds. -The Observer 
Listeners to WSND-FM, the Notre Dame classical music station, are being asked to participate in the semiannual Fine Arts Fund Drive today through Nov. 11. Pledges may be called in during regular programming hours or mailed to P.O. Box 532, Notre Dame, IN 46556. Featuring fine arts, public service and information programming in the Michiana area, WSND-FM is licensed as an edu­cational, non-commercial station, operating at 88.9 frequency. The station relies entirely on volunteers from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and the local community for operation and depends on cash gifts to maintain operation during academic breaks. -The Observer 

Weather 
Partlycloudyand cool today with a high near 50. Clear and cold tonight, with lows in the upper 20s. Sunny and cool tomor­row with highs near 50. Wednesday through Friday: fair and cool Wednesday with highs in the 50s and lows in the mid to upper 30s. A chance ofshowers Thursday and Friday with highs in the mid 50s and mid 60s, and lows in 

the upper 30s to mid 40sAP 
Design Editor ................................ Troy Illig Design Assistant....................Andi Schnuk Typesetters .................. Cathyann Reynolds Tracy Bingader News Edttor ........................... )ohn Mennell Copy Editor ......................... Keith Harrison Viewpoint Layout.... Kevin Becker, Dave Grote Viewpoint Copy Editor ........ Paul Cimino F«.~tures Copy Editor .. Margaret McCabe F«.~tures Layout.............. Dana Bainbridge ND Day Editor .... .....................Katy Doyle Ad Design ..Jeanne Grammen.~. Fred Nel­
son 
lbe 0~ (USPS 599 2·4000) Is published Monday through Friday and on home football Saturdays, except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( S20 per se­mester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


The greatest show on Earth 
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the greatest show on Earth. It is not all fun and games -actually it is pretty serious. It is not put on by Barnum and Bailey, it is not Sweeney Todd and it is not Notre Dame football. It is the United States elections-presidential style. 
The current showing began approximately two years ago. Act I 
In this act the presidential hopefuls strive for their party's nomination. It starts with the candidate coming oil stage and saying that he or she wants to be the next president. It is never a surprise because the media are informed well in advance to assure good coverage for the candidate. 
In the next scene the candidates go out and try to convince the audience that, although they have the same ideals as the other candidates from their party, they are the better choice. They cut each others ideas down. This is where George Bush called Ronald 

John Mennell 
Assistant News Editor Inside M_pnday 
talking about them for a while. 
In another scene the candidates face each other in front ofhuge television audiences in great debates. Tili.s where the people backstage get their credit, as the can­didates are judged on such things as makeup, clothing and posture. It has become less and less what the can­didate says and more and more how he says it that is important. 
One important role in this act is that ofthe pollsters. Everyday someone tells you that if the election were 
Reagan's economic policies held today, this candidate or Voodoo Economics. It the other would win by this makes for a good show. much. Of course, what mat­
The candidates go from ters is what happens on the state to state to participate first Tuesday after the first in the primaries. It gives the 
Monday in November. The audience a chance to 
polls just keep things from practice voting so they will getting too exciting or know what to do in the third surprising in Act III. act. It gives the candidates a Act III good chance to practice 
The elections are the their campaigning skills. 
climax and finale ofthe great Through the primaries it 
show. The candidates get to 

becomes dearer and dearer go home, hide behind a cur­as to who will get the lead tain for a few minutes and roles. 
come out smiling, knowing The final scene of this act they got at least one vote. are party parties -conven· This is a fun time for the tions. Each party goes off to dUdience who has been some city to mend its watching all along. They get wounds. Differences are to critique the performers 

reconciled and party unity is strong. One candidate is put forward and what he will stand for is decided upon. Earlier in the century the conventions were where it was all decided and it might take more than 50 ballots to decide on a candidate, but now it takes just one. The person who has mustered enough support goes on to Act II. 
Act II 
This is where the now clearly established lead char­acters, fresh from victory at the conventions, go head to head with each other. They stop in every city they can, with the goal of getting some votes and getting on the evening news to get some more. 
The vice presidential candidates come into the picture in this scene. They are there for a humorus aside. It is dearly established that they have had parking tickets and other crimes against humanity or use terms picked up in the world ofsport. In the end it turns out that they are really not that bad but everyone had fun and decide which one has done a better job throughout the show. Four years ago people were enraged when television networks picked winners berfore the voting was done. For the last two years the pollsters have showed an aged elephant well ahead of the donkey which may explain why only approximately half of the audience takes the initiative to go out and critique the show, even though the outcome affects everyone. 
The show lasts a long time and does have some draw­backs. It is time consuming and not always thrilling. Ad­mission is free, although it is expensive to play a lead role. Despite the drawbacks the show has made the change ofleadership in America a non-violent workable transgression. The lead role is the most difficult to per­form. It requires experience, skill and charisma. Taking this all into account it is no wonder we are about to elect an actor, again. 


AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO 
,..,.,.._....... 
...
~,.. 


Wlffia'" 
Tbe AltUD81ive to the Soath Bend BJa...
-----~~64 
·is going AM Stereo beginning November 5th. 

j ' 
~~=~'-==='==~ -...s::~~~~ 
~\~~t;..k~t 
Your dorm will be going AM Stereo soon--­--or-­stop by the booth in LaFortune and 
CHECK IT OUT 

AM STEREO AM STEREO AM STEREO 
N\U?\G... 

~'~,~---,, 
..-'// ·I


ftj~ 
. I 

..;-I •iA---:, 
.J 


---, 
The Observer Monday, November 5, 1984-page 3 

You may notbe the next contestant on Tbe Price is Rightbutyou could have seen the show's host Bob Barker last Friday Night at Notre Dame'sAthleticandConvocation Center in BobBarker'sFun and Games Show. The show drew a large crowd hoping to come away withprizes. 

Hey Mate! 
JDbe-~~ needsyou.The news department is accepting applications for 

Copy Editor 
For more Information contact Dan, Sarah or Anne at 239·5313. Applications are due Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Mil ,4 VI .SO. 
)'•;) ~N~IA. .,AND ''JIAIOA 1<14.4.~ 11 
So, f'.s,c' 



)'ljU W/~~ 
VNOIR.S.,.AM 
'/VA, REA ~AN VIVA, 80oSH//

• 


~ M A£.7•.$ LA P~&X//WrA./ ~ d & 8 .e.<=~
A/;v / ~ 
)l'p.s. Vo-?A-~A:V YGJ&~~o.s. FuruiZ-o~ • .?~,e. r5f "' 0 JIZ c1 e.. V ..-.r A-ll!-/A ~t~.A-L 6 s ~ "o~ 4~A//.JA-ioS. ,ecpc,; 8L/CA/V' ~ O.s 
y c:~.-,Nt/lli3~.S. ",4$ t/ ~r#O~~ 

,P,f,eA G.$.,-A N'D7""/·;~·A L~~At;o &L c:!oM/3/o:..., Po~/~/eo t:'4?Yr/24L ~E-P~B~/~ANO LJ't­Co~PA~o SAN ~D~6. O'ris 

Suspected larcenies in past month raise questions of building security 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST 
NewsSUlff 
Two suspected larcenies in the past month have raised questions about the present security systems in the Architecture Building. 
The first suspected larceny oc­curred in late September, when an unknown number of suspects al­legedly entered the open building and walked away with approxi­mately 5800 worth of equipment and personal goods. 
A second suspected larceny oc­curred on the morning of Oct. 21. The building was left open during midsemester break for use by stu­dents who remained on campus, as it has been done in the past. 
Architecture student Ed Garagan, who was working in the building on Sunday morning, foiled the at­tempted larceny. 
He heard unfamiliar voices, traced them to three suspects carrying a bag ofitems belonging to various ar­chitecture students, and then pursued dtem as they left the build­ing and headed across campus. 
The suspects then attempted to enter the Art Building and the Cus­hing Hall of Engineering. 
It seemed the campus was "one big candy box," for the suspects, said Garagan. 
Garagan apprehended the three suspects and summoned Notre Dame Security. Before security 
~m.c. 
arrived, one ofthe suspects escaped. 
The other two were taken into custody by security officers. The third suspect is currently being sought in the South Bend area. 
The two alleged thefts have caused an examination of the de­partment's entire security system. 
In past years, several architecture students have been victimized by isolated incidents of theft, but not to a serious extent, according to Bob Amico, chairman of the School ofAr­chitecture. 
Because of the high value of equipment stolen in the September incident as well as the foiled second attempt, students and faculty decided to confront the problem more seriously than in the past, he said. 
Following the first conflict, stu­dents wrote a letter to Amico, asking for immediate action " to ensure the safety of students, their equipment, and facilities." 
Installation of a combination push-button lock system similar to the type used in the Art Building was proposed. 
Both students and faculty agree that communication has been a vital aspect of their success in confront· ing the problem. Margaret Derwent, architecture student, said "If you don't care for the needs of the stu­dents, a department cannot work successfully. The faculty are responsive to our needs." 

Following the first alleged lar­ceny, Amico asked the students for recommendations. He investigated possible security solutions, such as a Detex system or a push-button com­bination lock system. 
After input from the students, he ordered installation of a combina­tion lock system. 
It is not yet known when the sys­tem will be installed. Amico is optimistic about the new system. 
"The combination lock will not completely solve the problem, but it will help to discourage thieves," he said. "Students are also becoming more aware of the importance of using personal security methods, such as taking care to lock up per­sonal belongings when not working at the building. This is also an impor­tant aspect of our new security awareness," Amico said. 
Derwent expressed optimism also, saying that continuing commu­nication between students and fac­ulty will help ensure the success of the new security system. 
Glen Terry, director of Notre Dame Security, emphasized the im­portance of students' personal se­curity responsiblities. He said the problem is the students' lack of responsiblity in locking up their own items ofvalue. 
Another part of the problem is that students are too trusting ofeach other, Terry said. · 



Gandhi 
continued from page 1 

they gain their independence," he said. 
Regarding the United States, Pul­lapilly said "the United States should see this as a new beginning for rela­tions with India. Indira Gandhi leaned to the left of the political spectrum, and was more ofan ally of the Soviet Union." 
The United States supplies money , and armaments to Pakistan, and "we should use our influence over the Pakistanis to attempt to diffuse the Sikh problem," he said. "Pakistan radio is exciting tensions by broad­casting propaganda for the Sikh separation movement. 
"And we should try to achieve a long-term peace between India and Pakistan," because these nations have had two military conflicts since India's independence from Great Britain in 1948, said Pullapilly. 
As the world's largest democracy, India has much in common with the United States and "better relations between the two nations makes sense," he said. 

--~------·· 
The Observer Monday, November 5, 1984-page 4 

Students explore world of ex-cons 
By KATIIRYN HUMM 
News Staff 
Many of the stereotypes about ex­convicts are not true, according to a Saint Mary's senior who spent fall break at a halfway house for ex­convicts. 
"There are many stereotypes about ex-convicts and this was a chance to find out that these stereotypes just aren't true," said Vivian Ostrowski. "It was an oppor­tunity to find out about people in less affluent posistions." 
Notre Dame students Carol Gales and Sue Berry accompanied Ostrowski on the visit. 
They stayed at Dismas House in Nashville, Tenn., a place where ex­convicts can stay after leaving prison andbefore entering society. 
One of three such homes located in Tennessee, Dismas House is run by the United Religious Community of Nashville. According to Ostrowski, it is a "Christian commu­nity where everyone helps one an­other. 
"Dismas House is a home, not a hotel. Each person has their own thing to do but they come together for community activities -dinner being the major daily activity and house meetings the required weekly activity," she said. 
Ostrowski became interested in Dismas House through Gales, who spent a summer doing a service proj­ect there. Ostrowski, Gales and Berry spent their week meeting the people at Dismas House and explor­ing Nashville. 
Dismas House is home to many types of ex-convicts: men and wo­men, young and old (the ages ranged from 20 to 80) and black and white, Ostrowski said. 
She believes one of the reasons why she learned so much was that she entered into the spirit of Dismas House. It was important for her to not be an outsider, she said. 
Within three hours, she felt at home. She said, "The spirit between the ex-convicts and the students was one of camaraderie rather than in­timidation." 
"It was a lot of fun, I would definidy do it again," Ostrowski said. "It opened up a new culture and made a whole different group of Americans seem real to me. I would encourage other students to become informed about criminal justice." 

New concentration focuses on Middle East 
By DIANNE MCBRIEN 
News Staff 
AMediterranean/Middle East area studies concentration will be of­fered at Notre Dame for the first time this year. 
Created early this semester, the program is open for registration for the spring, and students may sign up in the Anthropology Office. 
Dircct~d by Prof~ssor Kenneth 
Moore, chairman of Notre Dame's 
anthropology dq>artm~nt. the con­
centration is designed to provide 
each student with th~ best possible 
selection of courses in line with· 
career and academic interests. 
lb~ curriculum includes course offerings &om six Arts and Lettus departm~nts &om which a student, with the help ofan adviser, selects a five-course sequence. 
Advisers will be responsive to spe­cific stud~nt interests, (such as literature, language, politics, or eco­nomics) and will ensure that inter­ests d~velop in a context of a historical and cultural understand­ing of the region. 
The concentration has two types of required courses, one covering the Islamic Mediterranean and an­other the judeo-Christian culture in the area. 
Two courses in Islamic culture will be offered in the spring: Con­temporary Middle East Anthropol­ogy 365, taught by Professor Diana 

Styling 
531 N. Michigan St., Phone 233-4957 
AIS 
Shipping and Packaging You •rap or UJe Wrap 3617 Mishawaka Ave Mishawaka at Logan We ship &elusiuely 
VI'S 
282-2556 
de Treville, who has just returned &om six years of research in Egypt; and The Arab World: History and Civilization, MLAR 381, taught by Professor Nazih Daher, who came to the United States from Lebanon. 
Before approval as a concentra­tion, Mediterranean/Middle East studies activities were organized around a nine-member faculty com­mittee formed in 1981. Since then it has augmented library holdings in the Middle Eastern area and ar­ranged a Fulbright Award which brought a visiting professor from the University of Damascus to the campus for a year. 
An O~n Invitation to 
Accounting and Business Students 
& other interested individuaLs 
Special P~ntatlon by 
Orant Gregory, Chairman of the Board 


1.\ Touche Ross & Co. 
"Audit & Consulting 
Firm of the Future" 
November JJ, 7:30pm Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
Reaptlon following. 
Mouing Indiana Ahead More Jobs/Better Education 
Steady,Depm1dableLeade1·s for IndianaB Future 
Authorimd by Hoosiers for Bob Orr, Don Cox, Chairman 
Paid for by the St. Joseph ~ounty Republican Central Committee, Otis Romino. treasurer 
Know a dermitologist? 
Marc Seguin, a senior in Notre Dame's Carroll Hall, dons a mask forCarrollHall's Haunted House lastFriday night. Donations of50 cents were asked of tbe more than 400 people who made it to tbe other side ofSt. Mary's Lake. 




Like to write? 
There will be a ~eeting for anyone interested in 


Features 
writing for The Observer 
Wednesday. Nov. 7 at 7 p.a. in the LaFortune Little Theatre 
Writing topics include record. movie and book reviews. general human interest articles, and humor columns. 
For •ore iaformation contact Mary Healy at the Ob•er~Jer office, 239·5313. 

The Second Annual 
CRAZY PICTURE HUNT HAS BEGUN! 
SPONSORED BY: The Picture Man DEADLINE TO ENTER: Nov. 21, 1984 PHOTOGRAPHY DEADLINE: Dec. 7, 1984 
*The Picture Man will photograph all entires. Just fill out and return entry forms before deadline date. *Entry Forms available in Student Activities offices at Lafortune and Haggar College Center. •Winner 1st Annual CPH-Pangborn 8. 

GRAND PRIZE 
$100.00 to winning floor-ThePicture Man All you can eat pizza&drinks-Dominos Pizza 
~---------------------------,--~---~----------------~----­

Monday, November 5, 1984-page 5 



The world is more than the evening news 
The 1984 presidential election has told us a lot about the role of the press in deciding public opinion. Reagan's tremendous lead has largely been the result of favorable press, while the name Mondale has become synonymous with "wimp." The tremendous illusion which had established itself during 
David Kroeger 
Wednesday's child 
the first few months of the campaign largely 
evaporated with the Louisville debate. The 
American people were at last able to see both 
candidates as who they were, and who they 
were not. 
Columnist james Reston has ruefully des­cribed the Reagan campaign crew as "the best public relations team ever to enter the White House." Reagan has held the fewest press con­ferences in ten years, and each public appear­ance ends with a planned quip and a quick run to a helicopter or airplane to avoid any embar­rassing questions. It is no wonder that pollster Lou Harris said,"Mondale cannot beat Reagan, only Reagan can beat Reagan." 
This situation should bring some disturbing questions to mind. Granted, we certainly need the press as a check against the evils, real or imagined, of society. Yet, just how far can we trust the press, when it is obvious that they are subject to bias as well? 
During the course of my short lifetime I have encountered a shockingly large number of people who believe everything that they read in the newspaper. This includes the stan­dard journals which one finds at the checkout counters in supermarkets. Each and every day they read the paper and are totally brain­washed by the information which they find within. They have no concept about which 
ones should be totally belie•;ed and which 
ones can only be counted on in pan, ifat all 
Surprisingly, we are all of that group. • 
Basically, we all rely upon the press for 
news and information, but it is necessary to 
realize that the mass media are capable of er­
rors and incomplete research in the same fas­
hion that we are. In many cases, we are seeing 
what someone has determined that we want 
to see, rather than what may really be impor­
tant. We see clips that are wittingly or unwit­
tingly edited. We see a world through a ball 
point pen or a camera lens, a world in which 
there is no place fqr the dull and ordinary 
There is nothing wro.1g with this, but it is nec­
essary to realize that the true world is not all 
that we see on the evening news or our mor­
ning paper. In a civilization in which an aging 
president can appear as a deity, we can all be 
losers. 
The role ofthe press is vital for our society For those who deny that, recall the Watergate scandal. We are just beginning to recuperate from the implications of the Nixon adminis­tration. Think of how the world would have changed if the plan had been successful Nevertheless, it is apparent that the media has in many cases abused the first amendment in an attempt to make a profit. We can all name basically worthless publications, where the facts are sensationalized or even fabricated Yet, such incidents occur in our most respected publications as well. Recall the journalist who won a Pulitzer Prize for a story which was later found to be entirely fictitious. 
Do not be so foolish as to believe every: thing that you read. Do not be so foolish as to believe nothing that you read. Rather, take everything with a grain of salt, for we are all human: subject to human desires and human frailties. That is the real news. 
David Kroeger is a sopbomor~ In tbe .Col­lege ofArts & Letters Honors program and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Viewpoint wants to bearfrom )1014. Ifyou bave an opinion, brlllant instgbt or humorous comment concerning anyllnng appearing In The Observerjustsend a let­
Viewpoint 
ter toP.O.Box Q.

Policy 


The Observer endorses Ronald Reagan 
Students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will have the opportunity to vote to­
morrow in not just a presidential election, but a referendum. By casting a vote for 
Ronald Reagan, one votes for a continuation of the policies of the past four years, 
namely a form of supply-side economics combined with more ambitious defense 
goals both at home and elsewhere. By voting for Walter Mondale, one votes for a 
more direct effort by the federal government to solve the nation's ills, combined 
with a shift in the focus ofdefense spending to conventional forces. 
The distinction is clear; however, the choice is not obvious. Both candidates' 
positions contain serious drawbacks, sufficient enough for one entrepreneur to 
market "Nobody for President in '84" bumper stickers. But a choice should be 
made for the candidate whose ideas and ability most matches that vision we as 
students share of the future. That candidate is President Reagan. 
The future did not appear bright four years ago. Humbled byinternational failure 
and domestic economic chaos, Americans resoundingly defeated a president who 
seemed to have few answers to the questions of the day. They elected a man who 
made many promises-some ofthem outlandish· but who would deliver on many of 
those promises by 1984. 
Four years ago, candidate Reagan promised to control the rate ofinflation, which 
in 1980 approached 13 percent. Inflation now stands at approximately five per­
cent. Real wages have increased consecutively since 1982. And the general busi­
ness climate seems to be one of innovation, productivity and growth, rather than 
retreat. More than 600,000 new businesses started operating in 1983. That innovat­
ive spirit should not be doused. 
Nor should the United States withdraw from international markets by imposing 
inordinate restrictions on trade. Protectionist import and export policies only 
serve to make prices higher for consumers, inflating wage rates and leading to 
non-progressive, technologically backwards industries. Reagan has taken a 
stronger stand against such protection, such as opposing domestic content legisla­
tion and favoring deregulation. 
On other domestic issues, Reagan has displayed courage by attempting to solve 
the financing problems of the Social Security program without jeopardizing the 
income of recipients. He favors merit pay and competency testing for teachers in 
public schools and tax credits for parents with children in private schools: both 
effons to improve the quality of education. Mondale opposes both measures. 
Reagan has taken a much stronger stand on the abortion issue, opposing federal 
funding ofabortions and supporting a Constitutional ban ofthe operation. Mondale 
does not consider the matter to be a governmental question. 
On international matters, the most crucial question of our time is nuclear 
proliferation and the threat to humanity which it implies. Reagan does not believe 
in meeting with the Soviets just for the sake of meeting. His plan calls for negotia­
tion and the production of an equitable, verifiable agreement which stabilizes or 
lowers nuclear forces. Though the failure to produce such a document during the 
last four years may lead some to question the president's sincerity, the president 
seems to understand the risk at hand. It seems that even Mondale, in spite of his 
desire to negotiate with the Soviets, has struggled with the problem ofverification, 
as evidenced in the second debate. An agreement must be reached, but the best 
interests of the ·country would be served by one negotiated by Reagan, not by 
Mondale. 
In Central America, Reagan has supported a strong military presence in the area 
to assist leaders such as Napoleon Duarte of El Salvador. Yet the attempt to subvert 
governments such as the Sandinista regime in Nicaragua is counter-productive. 
The United States has a responsibility to assist allies and to support human rights. 
Reagan understands this responsibility; he is correct in supporting Duarte. Yet it 
seems that some of the president's methods may not lead to the desired goal. 
There are other stands Reagan has taken that appear, at best, short-sighted. The environmental problems of acid rain and chemical waste cry out for immediate, expensive solutions in order to prevent catastrophe years from now. The presi­dent's programs Sf> far have been hesitant and underfunded. The same can be said about education and energy. Reducing grants to colleges and college students means that excellence will be obtained by fewer people in a time when such knowledge is needed by more and more. And the energy crisis has not gone away; it just has been hidden by the short-term glut. The world's supply of fossil fuels diminishes more each day, and the United States should not let day-to-day market conditions determine its energy policy. 
No one expects perfection in a candidate; one must accept a little bad with the good and then attempt to change the bad. Right now, President Reagan clearly offers more good than bad. He instills confidence and pride, and he has shown the ability to lead, not to languish in ineptitude. And finally, he has a qualified vice presidential candidate in George Bush, whose experience in international affairs is substantial. There are drawbacks. But for a majority of The Observer's editorial board, those drawbacks should not prevent the re-election of the president. By a five to three vote, with one abstention, this board endorses Ronald Reagan. 
The Observer 


--The Observer--=. Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief. . . . . Bob Vonderheide Business Manager_ . . _....... Dave Taiclet Managing Editor ......... Mark Worscheh Controller ................ Maripat Horne 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the News Editor . . . Sarah Hamilton Advertismg Manager ....... Anne Culligan University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College It does not necessarily ."Jews Editor . 1' _!.,McCullough Clfculation Manager . ......... Jeff O'Neill reflect the policies of the administration of either mstltut1on. The news 1S reported as Sa1nt Mary"s Ed1tor .A.1 ·· · Monastyrski Systems Manager . ........ Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned ed1tona s represent the opinion Sports Ed1tor . .. _. ~.1t<..-hael Sullivan Product1on Manager. . . . Chris Bowler of a maJOrity of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentar1es. letters and the lns1de Column Viewpoint Ed1tor . . . Dave Grote Project Manager . . . .. Amy Stephan present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Features Ed1tor. . . . . . . Mary Healy commun1ty, and the free expression of varymg opm10ns en campus. through letters. Photo Ed1tor . . . . . . . Pete Laches Founded November 3, 1966 1s encouraged. 

..-------­
1 
I 
Monday, November 5, 1984 -page 6




I Accent 
~ 
Dropping a favorite: Zzzz 101 
by Lisa Young 
features staffwriter 
A
s your eyes flicker open your professor is erasing the chalk­board and off-handedly saying, "Be sure that you thoroughly under­
r 
i stand this concept. It will be a I major part ofthe upcoming exam."
r 
Your eyes dart to the clock-8:20! But it seems like you just got to class. Surely you couldn't have slept for 15 minutes! 
Perhaps your calculus class is so boring that you can't keep your eyes open. Try as you might, your head drops an inch each minute until your chin hits your chest and boom!-you're awake again. This process is repeated 3 or 4 times as you struggle to stay awake, until you finally give in and lean against the wall for a snooze. 
You're not alone. You realize this as you look around the room. More than likely you see someone drift­ing off to dreamland -or already there. Statistics show that two thirds ofall students fall asleep in class at least once a week. So, ifyou stay awake, chances are the people on your right and left are going to ask to borrow your notes. 
As you review your notes for the big test, you recognize the days on which you were sneaking some extra z's. All words consist of two letters and a long, squiggly tail. Proofs have a hypothesis and a conclusion, but the evidence is illegible. A calc problem with only three steps? That's when you hope the guy next to you was on No-Doz! 
As we all know, falling asleep in class can bring about a lot oftrou­ble. Stories were flying a few weeks ago about students sleeping in Dean Hofman's Chemistry lecture. Hof­man has a strict policy about this matter. He notes, "Not only is the student missing valuable informa­tion, someone else suffers a loss -the tuition payer." Most likely that means Mom and Dad, but it could also come from a scholarship, grant, or other contributor. Hofman usually handles a problem by having his teaching assistants note the sleeping student. Ifit happens more than once, he has a confer­ence with the student to see ifthere is an underlying problem. 
Professor Holly Martin, Assistant Professor of the Freshman Writing Program, says, " I don't find stu­dents falling asleep to be a big prob-· lem, because the classes I teach are small, discussion classes." She adds that she will usually have one stu­dent a week fall asleep. Unless it becomes a habit, she will usually 


Marty Madden takes a little snooze during one ofhis classes. 
The Observer/Carol Gales 

not confront the student. She does 
suggest, however, that ifyou are sleepy, to sit in the front ofthe 
class. It forces you to pay attention and you're less likely to fall asleep. 
Maybe you've tried everything to stay awake-a Pepsi before class, doodling, writing letters, even paying attention(!), but somehow those eyelids are just too heavy. Let's face it--8 o'clock is just too early to have a class, and come to think ofit, so is 9:05! By 10:10, you're thinking of all the game shows you're missing. Since you can't stop thinking about lunch during your 11:15, you decide a snappy nap will help shorten the wait. 
Although the dining hall didn't quite cooperate with your dream lunch, you arrive at your 1: 15 con­tent and ready for a few ZZZ's. At 2:20, you remember that you're missing General Hospital, so you console yourself by allowing a few minutes ofshuteye. Any class after 3:25 is definitely competing with some heavy duty afternoon slum­bering so you don't bother talking yourselfinto staying awake. Ifyou somehow have an evening class­forget it! Once the sun goes down, it's only natural instinct that puts you away. 
According to Dorm Magazine, there are a few things to try (besides the obvious tip ofgoing to bed before 4 a.m.) to make sleeping outside ofclass a more satisfying, sufficient restoration so that in class sleeping can be eliminated. 
•Take naps when you need them. 
•
Don't overindulge in caffeinated beverages. 

•Be moderate with alcohol. 

•Find 
a comfortable room tem­perature for sleeping. 

•Try 
a glass ofhot milk--it's not just good advice from Mom! 


Sweet dreams--but not in class! 


Campus Celebrity ofthe week . • • 
ofhis reason for becoming religi­
by Patti Tripathi 
ous. best players. Any team can win or features staffwriter 
He comments, "Joe Howard and lose now." coaches Mike Stock and Gerry Faust "I hear people saying they are 'vJben he arrived at Notre Dame athletes. He said, "I don't see why I also deserve a great deal ofcredit sick of Notre Dame play," says 
W from Fairfield, Iowa, he was should be treated differently. I'm for helping me out and making me jackson in regard to the attitudes of told he did not look like a football just another student. I just play believe in myself." Milt is also the fans and wishes to impress on player. But Milton jackson did not football." He adds, "I don't want to thankful to his parents and family them, "Don't watch us play with let that discourage him. Through be treated as an idol. There's only for their encourageme·,1t and under­with that attitude. Be behind us all his dedication and quest for perfec­one idoL.that's God." Through standing. the way." tion, he has proven his outstanding the years, jackson has become very Disgusted with all the criticism of jackson, a junior accounting athletic abilities. In seven games, he religious. "People have laughed at Coach Faust, jackson feels, "Win or major and a Zahm Hall resident, is has scored four touchdowns and me, but I'm not one to please the lose... he is always the same man. He planning to pursue an MBA degree averaged 12.3 yards per reception. crowd," admits jackson. motivates everyone no matter how and consider law school in his 
For all his talent, however, jack­jackson spends his Sundays down he is. He's a wonderful man." future. He places great emphasis on son does not want to be treated reading the Bible, listening to religi­The third-year athlete hopes the his education. "I am a student specially. When a student once ous music, and praying. "I can set at fans will be loyal through both the before an athlete," he affirms. 
apologized for not knowing who he least one day aside for the Lord," he 
bad times and the good. He said, Although he was injured in the was, he smiled casually and said, says. "One day I looked at every­
"I'm tired ofbeing compared to Louisiana State game, Milt "Silk" "Don't be sorry. I didn't know you thing I had accomplished--all the 
what we did in past years. In my jackson will be bouncing back soon either." articles that were written. I said 
opinion, athletics have changed to live up to his nick name, a title jackson possesses humility, a somebody had to have been helping 
because of the NCAA rules, a col­referring to his usual smooth and unique attribute amongst gifted me...Lord in heaven," saysjackson lege can no longer recruit all ofthe silky running pattern. 
Accent Monday, November 5, 1984-page 7 

The Observer /Carol Gales 
Junior Connie Dove and sophomores Gretchen Weiss and Michele Sebo indulge in some masterpieces at Chris' Ice Cream Parlor. 
Eating Ice cream, a fine art 
by Lisa·Marie Visingardi 
features staffwriter 
W
hen was the last time you 
explored South Bend in . 
search ofsomething new and excit· 
ing? Although this doesn't sound 
like one of the most productive 
ways in which you could spend an 
afternoon, you may be surprised at 
what you find. 
Recently some friends and myself decided to take some time off from our weekly rituals and engage our­selves in a quest for novelty. Driving down South Bend Avenue, destination unknown, we spotted a portable billboard with a message requesting us to CREATE A MAS­TERPIECE! Enticed by such an invitation, we took a sharp turn into the parking lot of Chris' Ice Cream Parlor. 
Not knowing what to expect, we ventured into this establishment with our curiousity peaked. Once inside, we were greeted by a young man and woman who were more than willing to help us "Create our master-piece." Amateurs of this new form of art, we listened closely. 
First of all, Chris' is no ordinary ice cream parlor, perhaps this is due to its mix-in style. 'This mode ofice cream consumption allows one to choose a favorite flavor ofice cream and have candy or a favorite snack ground up and mixed in for an entire symphony ofgreat tastes. For example, if you you were suffering from an orco cookie ice cream attack yet you had to have M&M's and a Heath Bar or just die, Chris's offers the perfect medicine: a dose of the first delicacy topped with bits and pieces ofthe latter two. 
Although this may sound rather simple to do, as a customer at Chris's you'll find that choosing your medicine (or poison as the case may be) requires a crash course in basic decision making 
101. On the wall is a list of the twelve flavors that are being served on that day: Mint Oreo, Coffee Oreo, Peanut Puff, Malted Choco­late, Cup o'Cream, and Cherries­banana to mention a few. Stated to the left of this list are all of the possible ingredients which you can have mixed-in; such as, crushed Reeses, mixed nuts, crushed Heath, 
When we created our master­pieces, it took us several minutes of deliberation before each one ofus could decide. During this time, we learned that all of the ice cream is home-made by the owner himself, Chris ofcourse (the same man standing behind the counter). In addition, he informed us that his sundaes are made with home-made hot fudge or butterscotch topping and only fresh fruit. Ifthat's not enough, even the whipped cream and ice cream cones are home­made. 
Overwhelmed by the number of possibilities we finally made our selections and chose a table which allowed for maximum viewing capacity. Looking around we noticed the interesting artwork on the walls. With further inquisition, Chris gave us a briefhistory ofhow this place came to be. 
Having worked at a "mix-in" in Florida, Chris decided to return to his home state and open hi~ own place. Aided by his father Robert Miller and his wife Lyzerte, he was able to open the dQ.9rs to his first mix-in on October 6, 1984. Most of the preliminary work was accom· plished only with family coopera­tion. As for the art-work, Chris disclosed that it was the work of Notre Dame students. 
While listening to his story and enjoying the masterpiece which I had created, I became curious as to Chris's reason for selecting South Bend as home for his ice-cream· hound heaven He answered my curiousity by pointing out that mix-ins are quite popular around college campuses; and to this date his place is the first and only one of its kind near Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 1\.s for choosing this area in the first place, he comments, "It's up and coming." 
Having obtained our fill ofice cream we thanked Chris for his help and information and pledged our support and loyalty to our newly found escape. 
As for our next quest, we still have many more masterpieces to create! 

lb" O~rnr/Carol Gala 

avalier corrosio 
Marc Ramirez 
features columnist 
ge days indeed 

W 
ell, seein' as how the pro basketball season has begun, I had wanted to do an entire basketball preview, but the editor says to me,"Look, son, maybe about three whole percent ofthe people on this here campus care about pro basketball, so you're gonna have to narrow your scope and make it interesting." "Well, then, can I do a conference preview, Mr. Editor?" "No. You're not even a sports writer. Narrow it down." "A division, maybe?" "Way down." "A little ol' team?" "You go\ it, scoop." Well, naturally my feathers were a trifle ruftled, because I make it ahabit to follow the NBA. Yeah, you heard me right, the National Basketball Association. The one where 23 teams play 82 games to pick 16 teams to go to the playoffs, the one that made a rule that tells teams how much they can pay a whole team, and the one that no one except me ever watches on 1V. That NBA. Because it's all I got. 
So now I have to talk about one team, and since·Mr. Editor has put me into a very wicked mood, I do not feel like talkin' about my very favorite team, the Phoenix Suns. Instead, I feel like rippin' something to shreds. 
And so, since I do not have a five-by-seven gloSsy photo ofMr. Reagan handy at this particular moment, I will focus my wrath on the sorriest team in the NBA, the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
Now havin' lived out in the middle ofnowhere all my life, and havin' never been to the city ofCleveland, well, maybe I ain't really qualified to say anythin', but when I hear the word 'Cleveland,' I start laughin' so hard my insides are about ready to fall out. 
Think about it, sports &.ns. Football? They got the Browns. One-and-eight, last time I looked. Ifthey won this weekend it was because they were playin' BuJfalo, who was 0-9. Baseball? They got the Indians. I don't rightly recall their final record last season, but I do know they were next to last in their division. And what kind of basketball team do you figure would be in Cleveland? Well, here's whatSportslllustrated, which my cousin Leroy reads to me every week., said about Cleveland's last season: 
You take 302 more shots than your opponent. You make 11 fewer. You are the Cleveland Cavaliers. Sorta makes sense, don't it? Now here's a basketball team who's 
got two guys that are 29, one guy who's gonna be 31 in December, and another who's 32, but whose 33-year-old coach says they're buildin' for the future. Here's a team that, last time I looked, has rebuilt to a record so far of0-4, losin' their last one atbome to, ofall teams, theIndiana Pacers. And here's a team who tried out 23 different players on its 12-man roster in 1981. 
Yeah, we're talkin' sorry. Last place. Doormat. Basement. Patsy. The list goes on. 
But don't y'all get the impression that the Cavaliers have always been losers. Why, as recent as '77 or '78 they even made the playoffs. But then somethin' happened. Don't ask me what, but strange things followed. 
And Cleveland started gettin' scary. 
How scary? Well, jest imagine that you are an NBA star playin' for some team out West in the early 80s, and suddenly you start havin' an off-season. Hey, your coaches and general managers say to you, you'd better start producin', or somethin' unfortunate might happen to you. In fact, we might even get nasty and trade you to 
Cleveland. 

And when you get traded to or are picked up by Cleveland, it's about the end ofthe road for you, Buster. Your career is over. You are a lamb who has been led to the slaughter. And the only way out is to get traded again, because once Cleveland puts you out on waivers, there ain't nobody in this land ofours who is gonna pick you up again 
Remember some great names that just sort ofvanished? Do you find yourselfaskin', "Hey, whatever happened to so-and-so? He just kind of... vanished." Nope, he's alive, and playin' for Cleveland. Lonnie Shelton. World Free. johnny Davis. Campy Russell. It's painful to con~ider. I have a mind to send them donations. 
With its brightest spot, second-year forward Roy Hinson, injured, Cleveland now has the capability ofstarting the world's heaviest front-line: 270-pound Lonnie Shelton, 319-pound Geff Crompton, and 270-pound Mel Turpin, a big ol' fat rookie out of Kentucky. 
-And Cleveland surprised no one by goin' way out ofits way to get Turpin. from Kentucky. Yeah, you remember Kentucky. joe B. Hall? The coach who gets the very least out ofhis players that he possibly can? So they call up that ol' center Mel when the NCAA season is just over, and they say, Mel, how would you like to try out for the Olympic team? Nope, says Mel, I'm outta shape. Might get hurt, you know. But Mel! they say. The college season just ended! You just finished playin' in the tournament! What -what -what happened, Mel? Why are you so doggone fat? But that didn't stop the Cavs. They traded away their top scorer just to get Turpin. The list goes on. Well, as you may have reckoned by now, I am not pickin' the Cavs to finish anywhere near first in their division, which happens to be the Central Division, which the Detroit Pistons are gonna run away with ifI may say so, Mr. Editor, followed by Chicago, Milwaukee, Atlanta, and Indiana. That leaves Cleveland for the cellar. As usual. It's tradition, like the harvest moon. 


crushed Oreos, Grapenuts, etc. 
One ofthe non-edible works ofart found at Chris'. 
There are almost too many choices. 

Monday, November 5, 1984 -page 8 

' 
{ 
( 
~ 
( 
( 
/ 
( ( ( 
( 
~ 
f 
,. 
( ( 
I' 
( 
( 
( 
r 
Budget Deficits 
Walter Mondale has a plan to reduce the staggering budget deficits which threaten to cripple our economy. This year's deficit of 263 billion dollars is by far the highest in U.S. history. Deficits add to our already enormous national debt, hun businesses and foreign trade, and cause interest rates to remain high. They must be dealt with, and Mondale will work immediately to restore fiscal responsi­bility to our federal government. He will reduce the deficit by; saving 25 billion dollars in defense spending, implementing measures to contain medicare and farm support costs, and restoring revenues by introducing a fair tax program. 
Walter Mondale feels that a balanced budget is an admirable goal which should be strived for, however, experience has shown him that it is nearly impossible for either party to balance the budget. For this and other reasons, he does not support the Balanced Budget Amendment. 
Taxes 
Walter Mondale will raise taxes, and so will Ronald Reagan. The fact is that revenues must be raised, and Mondale is simply being straight-forward and honest by presenting his tax plan prior to the election. 
Some important points of the Mondale­Ferraro tax plan include: partially deferring in­dexation, capping the third year ofthe tax cut for incomes above S60,000, imposing a 10 percent tax surcharge on incomes above sI00,000, enacting a 15 percent corporate minimum tax, and shutting down loopholes and accounting abuse. 
The Mondale tax plan will raise much needed revenue and thus reduce the deficit. It is a fair tax plan which has been put before the public for all to see. 
Tuidon Tax Credits, Student Aid 
Education is vital to our country's strength, and it is one area of national policy on which our future is built. Walter Mondale will work to restore the Reagan cuts in education, while continuingtopromote policies which address the futures ofour students and teachers. 
Walter Mondale is against tuition tax credits, as are most educators, for he feels that 
Below are ltsted the political positions of Walter Mondale on some ofthe major issues in the 1984 Presidential Election. These reponses have been compiled by the NDI$MCStudentsfor Mondale/ferraro. 
their implementation would hurt our public school system. Tuition tax credits encourage families who can afford it to send their kids to private rather than public school. Public schools are the backbone of American educa­tion, and they must be protected and strengthened. Tuition tax credits achieve nei­ther of these goals. 
With regard to student aid, the difference between the present administration and the Mondale-Ferraro outlook is clear. Mondale will work ·hard to ensure that all American families can afford to send their children to college by increasing the level ofPell grants to low and moderate income students, expand­ing the Guaranteed Student Loan program, and increasing campus based work study pro­grams. 
Middle East 
Walter Mondale has had Middle East foreign policy experience like no other candidate has. As vice president, he was instrumental in the tedious negotiation process which resulted in the Camp David Peace Accords. It is in that spirit that Mondale will approach the middle east and its problems. 
Mondale will work for stability, yet he will do so through a coherent policy of dialogue rather than one of weapons spending and troop deployments. In Lebanon, Mondale would not have placed troops in a vulnerable position with no clear mission. As president, he will insure that the United States maintains its strong friendship with Israel. In the spirit of Camp David, Mondale will seek to renew the progress towards lasting peace in the middle east. 
Latin America 
Walter Mondale will insure that America maintains its moral authority in the vital Latin­American region. He will do so not by initiat­ing illegal mining ofNicaraguan harbors or by distributing a CIA manual which encourages terrorism, but instead will seek negotiation between the leaders and rebels of this war­torn region. 
Mondale feels that we should encourage and support democracies, and thus favors eco­nomic incentives and aid. He supports jose Napoleon Duarte, and he would seek active participation with the friendly Contadora group. Mondale, does not however, support our aid to the contra efforts in Nicaragua. He 
The 1984 Presiden 
On the Left ................................................ . 
views them as self-defeating, and would stress negotiated agreement for non-intervention by outside powers. His policy proposals in Latin America are intelligent and workable. Most importantly, they represent foreign policy ideas which do not compromise our moral au­thority. 
Women's Rights 
Walter Mondale and Geraldine Ferraro will seek a guarantee that women fully participate in our society and our government, by leading the fight to pass the Equal Rights Amendment and appointing women to positions ofrespon­sibility at every level ofgovernment. 
Mondale was an original co-sponsor of the Equal Rights Amendment and remains un­wavering in his support for it. He realizes that like Civil Rights legislation, the ERA, with the power and prestige of law, will act as both a symbolic and practical measure which seeks to insure equality and fairness in our society. Women should no longer have to settle for 59 cents for every dollar a man makes, and in the spirit of equal rights, Walter Mondale favors a bill which would guarantee women the same pay as men ifthey perform work of compara­ble value. 
Abortion 
Perhaps no other issue raises emotion and rhetoric as much as the abortion question. Walter Mondale believes that abortion is a deeply serious occurrence, yet must remain the personal choice of individual women. Walter Mondale does not believe that govern­ment and society today possess the insight, cohesion and agreement necessary to decide which if any anti-abortion laws should be passed. Walter Mondale does respect life, and is certainly no "baby killer". Such language and insinuation only stifles serious debate on this important issue, and is unfair to both the pro-choice and anti-abortion position. 
Environment 
Walter Mondale once said that he believes 
"that each generation of Americans has the 
profound obligation to hand over to the next 
generation a country at least as rich, as clean, 
and as beautiful as it was when we received it 
from our parents." It is this vital obligation 
which is being ignored today. Less than I per­
cent of all superfund toxic waste sites have 
Mondale deserves your vote 
By Mike Brogioli 
The most disturbing thing about this year's election is the fact that so few of us sup­posedly intelligent, reflective students are taking the time to seriously look at all the is­sues, records and real leadership qualities which the candidates do or do not possess. Last week's Mock Election underscores my point: huge majorities voted for some type of nuclear weapons freeze and restrictions on acid rain, yet 61 percent said they support Ronald Reagan, although he favors neither. lbis indicates that major, critical issues are not having the impact they deserve upon our voting decisions. 
Certainly, we want a strong leader in whom we can trust. Intelligence, courage, wisdom, compassion and vision are the marks of a true leader, and under these guidelines, Walter Mondale scores far ahead of Ronald Reagan. Yet our generation, although acknowledging its sharp dlsagreement with Reagan on such profound issues as civil rights, foreign policy and arms control, continues to support the president by a wide margin. In a nutshell, I would argue that in 1984 image and percep­tion are winning out over fact and reality. To ignore the many great issues of our time and simply vote for Reagan because he seems more "presidential" is simplistic and irrespon­sible. I urge all of you to thinklong and hard ­to examine your consciences -prior to making your decisions tomorrow. 
I do realize that some students are not 
simply swept by Ronald Reagan's aura and im­
pressive imagery. Many of these students will 
choose Mondale-Ferraro, while others will 
continue to support the president. It is this 
latter segment whose attitudes are most dis­
heartening. While some claim (with varying degrees ofsincerity and rationality) that they must support Reagan because of his anti­abortion stand, I strongly suspect that the bot­tom line to their voting decision comes down to "pocket book" economics. The "I'm better off so therefore I'll vote for Reagan" attitude may seem sensible at first, but upon reflection, it boils down to a vaguely covered greed and selfishness in the American electorate. 
We should vote on the basis of who will do better for all Americans, particularly the most disadvantaged members of our society. We should never be completely satisfied with the way things are. It seems easy for us, li.ving upper-middle class and upper class lives to proclaim how wonderful Ronald Reagan and his policies are. However, it is not so easy for the unemployed steelworker, the frightened elderly woman or the discouraged minority student to make such a proclamation. 
In the United States, such people do exist, and not in small numbers. The sad, harsh reality of 1984 tells us that 7. 5 million remained unemployed, and 15.2 percent of our population is under the poverty line. Sad reality presents a nuclear arms race which rages on and now threatens to be taken into space. Sad reality shows a president who favors tax credits to segregated universities and tries to repeal the Voting Rights Act. Sad reality is a president who has failed to master the vital components of foreign policy and arms control. Many refuse to acknowledge these and other realities of the Reagan presidency. Others acknowledge them yet shrug their shoulders. It is this group which clearly has failed to examine their con­sciences, which has a misguided and self­interested view ofgovernment. 
Surely, we should encourage: and applaud efforts which lead to equal opportunity and justice, yet some in society and at Notre Dame simply choose to ignore the shameful Reagan record on social, economic, environmental, and war and peace issues. Apparently to them tax breaks and temporary relieffrom inflation are more important than civil rights and sin­cere arms control efforts. 
We learn about the importance of family and community values here at Notre Dame. We learn that we are called to help one an­other · to take care of those who can't make it on their own. It is called compassion, and it is a quality we should not be afraid to display in our national policies. Walter Mondale and Geraldine Ferraro have shown compassion · in themselves and in their policies, and their administration will seek to form a society which can honestly describe its government with that word. 
Walter Mondale and Geraldine Ferraro combine the traits necessary to lead this na­tion towards the goals of equal opportunity, prosperity, peace and justice. Mondale has remained faithful to the causes he know:,; are right, yet has been able to make the necessary modifications in specific fields which time and technology dictate. Walter Mondale and Geraldine Ferraro possess the best leadership qualities -intelligence, honesty and wisdom. They are prepared and willing to take on the problems facing our country, and most impor­tantly they realize that problems and injus­tices do exist, and must be solved. Mondale and Ferraro have made this vital realization, and now I call upon each ofyou to do the same by giving them your vote on November 6. 
Mike Brogiolt is the chairman of the NDI$MC Studentsfor Mondale/Ferraro. 
been cleaned up, and slashes in funding have cut that agency's research in half. Mondale will restore the budgets of environmental agencies. He will enforce the laws we've enacted to protect ourselves, our air, our water and our land. He will treat acid rain as a serious national problem that demands a na­tional solution, and he will put true profes­sionals back in charge of environmental protection. 
Arms Control 

Walter Mondale truly believes in arms con­trol. As president, he wants to meet with the Soviet leadership personally on an annual basis. Although he realizes that the Soviets are tough to negotiate with, Walter Mondale wants to continue a tradition of producing arms control agreements started by Eisenhower--a tradition carried on by every president since, except for Ronald Reagan. Walter Mondale would propose a mutually verifiable plan to stop the testing, production and deployment of nuclear arms. He would not initiate an arms race in the heavens as the Star Wars system proposed by Reagan will do. Finally, Mondale would work towards there­duction of nuclear arms with the Soviets on a mutually verifiable basis. We live in a world of 50,000 nuclear warheads. We build 3 more each day, with no end in sight. The madness must stop, and Walter Mondale will seek an end to the arms race nightmare. 
National Defense 

Walter Mondale believes in a strong na­tional defense. His proposed budget plan in­cludes a 3 percent increase in defense spending. However, he wants to shift spend­ing away from unnecessary and dangerous nu­clear weapons systems towards conventional forces, where we lag considerably behind our principle adversary. Until he can negotiate reductions with the Russians, Walter Mondale appreciates the need for survivable nuclear forces such as the Stealth bomber and the Midgetman ICBM. He would cancel the vul­nerable MX missile and the already obsolete B-1 bomber S\lpported by President Reagan. As president, Walter Mondale would assume a role ofleadership by making sure that the na­tion gets the seturity that it pays for. Mondale wants to build strong, rational defense which enhances rather than reduces United States security, world stability, and peace. 


Monday, November 5, 1984 -page 9 



,,St:: 
.. 
The answer is Ronald Reagan 
~ 
l 
~··· Ronald Reagan, the leader and the man. As believes that we have a special responsibility Governor of California and as President, he not only to ourselves, but to others. We are has proven his style of leadership is highly ef­the leader of the free world, and assume re­The question is one of leadership. Four fective and successful. This election is a sponsibility and challenge to face. We are the 
By Bill Healy 
years ago, Ronald Reagan promised us a bold mandate on leadership and the future of our symbol of freedom across the globe; Ronald new beginning, and he has kept that promise. country. Reagan asks that we carry that torch high. We America is coming back! Before the Republi­must have strong leadership and we must can Administration took office we faced a des­Ronald Reagan sees the government as respect that leadership in order that we perate situation. Our economy was in the being too large and out of control, while the proudly move forward. Ronald Reagan has midst of a four-year long nightmare. Inflation opposition still would like to expand the earned our respect, as well as the respect of had increased each year under the previous "Leviathan" which already exists. As Reagan those around the world. "Peace through administration and for two years in a row, it once said while referring to the Democrats, strength" is not a slogan, it is a reality. Once reached double-digit levels. The failed "The difference between them and us, is that again, we are defending our views and hopes policies ofthe Carter-Mondale Administration we want to check government spending, and around the world. Democracy is worth diminished people's abilities to plan for the they want to spend government checks." Two defending, and Reagan has committed himself future. Interest rates soared to their highest different philosophies ofgovernemt, one new to this goal. levels since the civil war, and strong leader­and innovative, one a return to failed policies ship was needed. of the past. We cannot return down that failed The President has not accomplished all of 
Americans looked to the White House for path , we must continue to move ahead. The his goals in his first term and that is why he is leadership, but were told they themselves question is one of leadership. asking for a second. He has given us a new were to blame for our problems because of a beginning -a new movement toward a better national "malaise". We did not have a national The answer is Reagan. and brighter future. malaise. We did not have national leadership. Now under President Reagan, these danger­Across the country, as well as around the The problems of the world today are com­
world President Reagan has had an effect plex and Ronald Reagan has a keen sense of
ous trends have been arrested and reversed. which goes beyond highly stylized politics. direction from which the nation will face 
Four years ago, there were questions in He has touched a chord much deeper within these problems. Under the leadership ofPresi­people's minds as to whether the us all, and every day we see his sincerity and dent Reagan and Vice-President Bush, this "presidency" was too big, too unmanageable pride. He enjoys being president and is dedi­country is moving again. We have strong lead­
ership in this country and the people refuse to
for one man -Ronald Reagan has proven it ts cated to the American people far and above turn back. We are looking ahead, beyond our
not. He has passed the test of leadership; he his dedication to government. He sees a goal new beginning to the future ofthis nation. The
has met the challenges before him; and he has for the country and greatly deserves an oppor­kept his promises to the American people. tunity to finish the task he set out to ac­question is one ofleadership. complish · our nation has come a long way in 
Ronald Reagan is a unique leader. He still the last four years but Reagan believes we The answer is Ronald Reagan. proudly proclaims himself a citizen-politician; have further yet to go. a man with goals for the nation in mind, not politics. His style of leadership is forceful but Ronald Reagan draws his strength from an not pushy. He has broad goals in mind and he undying faith in the American people. He "leads" his staff and the nation toward the ful· draws his strength from a belief that this na­flllment of these dreams. Strength of charac­tion possesses something special; that Bill Healy ts tbe cbatrman oftbe NDISMC ter, not vacillation are the cornerstones of "American Dream," that "American Spirit." He Studentsfor Reagan/Bush. 
PIH>to by c-olGain 
Reagan/ljlush takes stdes in tbe small office they sbare on tbe secondfloor ofLaFortune. Each gtves his opinion on tbe election. 
tial Election Decision 
' ................................................. On the Right 
Budget Deficits 
The President feels that the deficits he in­herited are slowing our recovery. Although some claim that the deficits will stop the eco­nomic recovery, studies have shown that raising taxes would widen the deficit by crip­pling growth. Reagan is lowering deficits to continue economic growth with a three year down-payment proposal to cut defense and non-defense spending by S50 billion each, and by cutting out tax loopholes. The Deficit Down-Payment, increased growth, and making government more economically effi­cient will eliminate the deficit problem. Sup­ports balanced budget amendment. 
Taxes 
The Reagan Administration has already cut taxes to stimulate the recovery and seeks to assure that taxes do not overwhelm the people. Thus, Reagan supports measures such as tax indexing to make sure inflation does not push workers into higher tax brackets, (for every Ipercent rise in inflation, taxes go up I.7 percent.); elimination ofinheritance taxes un­der a certain amount to protect farms and small business; by increasing child-care credits and easing the marriage penalty tax. 
Tuidon Tax Credits, Student Aid 
During the past 3 years, the President has raised educational spending to its highest levels, (up 9 percent per pupil in 1983) and plans to increase gro\\--th to state and local educational agencies by 50 percent next year. Reagan has increased Pell Grants for needy college students. Student loan expenditures increased $600 million in 1984 and Reagan plans to extend $300 million to the GSL capi­tal fund in February of 1985. The Administra­tion is leading the fight to establish tuition tax creditrs for families with incomes under $40,000 so that the burden of sending children to the school of their choice will be reduced. This will effect over 60 percent of 
the families  who send children  to  private  
schools.  
Middle East  

The peace, security and well-being of the nations of the Middle East are critical to a broad range of American interests. These in­terests include: checking the spread ofSoviet influence in this strategic region; assuring the 
security and welfare oflsrael and other impor­tant friendly nations _in the region; preserving and fostering our critical interest in access to the region's oil. In Lebanon, the Regan Admin­istration's goals are: the restoration ofa sover­eign, independent and united Lebanon; the withdrawal ofall foreign forces; and the secur­ity of Israel's northern border. In Iran/Iraq, the United States is committed to: strict neutrality in the Iran-Iraq War; freedom of navigation in the Persian Gulf sea lanes, a mat­ter of vital importance to the international 
community; avoiding direct United States mil­itary involvement in the ·war; diplomatic ef­forts of the Gulf States and' other parties such as the United Nations in seeking a peaceful resolution to the conflict; security of these Gulf States -by providing military equipment to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, we have begun to achieve this. 
Latin America 
President Reagan has outlined four basic goals to prevent a Communist victory in Central America by fighting poverty and dic­tatorship there. The U.S. seeks to: Bolster dem­ocratic systems where they already exist and help countries in the process to reach demo­cratic goals quickly. The administration will continue to work at human rights problems and requires that elections in the region must be fair, safe and open to all. Support economic development (seventy-seven cents of every dollar we spend in the area currently goes to essentials for economic growth). Continua­tion ofthe Caribbean Basin Initiative. Support the security of the region's threatened countries. Security assistance is a shield for democratization, economic development and diplomacy. Support dialogue and negotiations among the countries of the region and within each country and work towards political solu­tions in Central America that we'll serve the interests of the democratic process (including the Contadora Process). 
Women's Rights 
President Reagan is the first Ptesident in history to appoint a female judge to the United States Supreme Court and he is the first presi­dent to have three women on his cabinet at the same time. The President's goals for wo­men are based upon a stress on legal and eco­nomic equity for women. He has reduced the marriage penalty tax, virtually eliminated the "widow's tax", doubled the child care tax 
Below are listed the politicalpositions ofRonald Reagan on some of the major issues in the 1984 Presidential Election. Jbese responses have been comptled by the NDISMC Studentsfor Reagan/IJush. 
credit for working mothers and proposes the "Pension Equity Act" to reduce pension practices which have proven unfair to wo­men. Equal Pay for equal work is the law ofthe land and President Reagan vigorously sup­ports this (through the U.S. Equal Employ­ment Opportunity Commission). 
Abortion 
President Reagan believes abortion is the taking ofhuman life and that the unborn child deserves the constitutional right to life. The President believes that even ifit is impossible to judge exactly "when life begins" and doubt exists, we still should opt on the side of life (ghre the child the benefit of the doubt). The president opposes federal funding for abor­tions except in those cases where the mother's life is in danger. He supported a Con­stitutional Amendment on the Senate Floor which would have overruled the Supreme Court's Roe v. Wade abortion decision. The President supports funding agencies which encourage adoption of unwanted children. The administration is strongly against allow­ing disabled children (Baby jane Doe cases) to die from lack of medical treatment. By Presidential Proclamation, the President reminded all doctors that the process is im­moral and unethical (as well as illegal). 
Environment 
The President has started a wide reaching revitalizaiton and expansion of the E.P.A. More specifically he supports: a 56 percent in­crease in spending for the "Superfund" pro­gram for the cleanup of hazardous wastes. A priorities list of 546 sites has already' been published and action has begun on alleviating problems in the order ofpriority; a 27 percent increase in enforcement programs. The presi­dent feels you must strictly enforce all of the current regulations for them to be effective; a 124 percent increase in Acid Rain Research and procurement of remedies; an increase of S7.3 million for development ofcost-effective regulations to expand and strengthen existing toxic waste enforcement programs. In 1983, the President, through the Department of In­terior has added more park and wildlife land to the federal estate than any other adminis­tration has in a single year since the purchase of Alaska. The President is working toward dean air, clean water and the restoration of our national parks. 
Arms Control 
The Reagan Administration has proposed that the United States move from a doctrine of Mutual Assured Destruction (MAD) to a posture of Mutual Assured Survival (MAS). MAS is a theory that holds that the most funda­mental duty ofthe government is to to protect the people from attack and that this can be best accomplished by physically defending them against nuclear attack. Emphasis is 
placed on saving Americans rather than killing Soviets. The President does not support a nu­clear freeze because it is simplistic, un­verifiable and a utopian approach to arms control that has no chance of being success­fully negotiated with the Russians. The Presi­dent began the START and INF Negotiations and is ready to resume them whenever the Soviets return to the tables in good faith. U.S. News and World Report states "Negotiations to reduce nuclear-arms levels not just freeze or limit their expansion will be resumed whenever the Soviets wish.") NATO re­quested in 1979 that the United States deploy 108 Pershing II missiles and 464 ground launched cruise missiles in Europe. Deploy­ment began in late1984. As ofMay 1984, NATO has deployed 9 Pershing II missiles in Europe~ By contrast, the Soviet Union has more more than 600 intermediate-range nuclear missiles, of which 378 are SS-20's. The Pershing II's and the ground-launched cruise missiles will al­low NATO to respond in-kind to an attack by Soviet iqtermediate-range missiles. 
Nadonal Defense 
The Administration has asked for 30 per­cent of the 1985 budget for defense spending, 15 percent less than 1960, while 42 percent of the budget goes for direct payments to indi­viduals, (Social Security, welfare programs, etc.) Reagan wishes to keep the defense budget at 7 percent of our GNP while the USSR spends about 20 percent of its GNP on defense. Of the defense budget, about half goes to manpower costs while only 14 percent is for strategic weapons. Our defense spend­ing will keep up with the slow rise in inflation and increasing GNP over the next term. Reagan also favors forcing the Pentagon, along with all other agencies, to implement the effi­cient business practices recommended by the Grace Commission to cut waste and increase efficiency. 


~--­

Sports Briefs 
Student basketball ticket applications and pay­ment will be collected this week according to the following schedule: seniors, today; juniors and students in their ninth semes­ter or higher, tomorrow; sophomores, grad and law students, Wed­nesday; freshmen, Thursday. Distribution will be from 3 p.m. to 8 
p.m. each day. -Tbe Obseroer 
The ND basketball teams, both the men's and 
women's, will be having intra-;quad games this Sunday, Nov. 11 in the ACC. The women's game will begin at 6:30p.m., and the men will follow at approximately 7:30p.m. Student tickets are on sale now for S 1 at gate 10 of the A CC. -Tbe Obseroer 
The ND Weightlifting Club will be having its 
third annual bench press meet this Saturday, Nov. 10, at 1 p.m. in the third-tloor weight room in the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone, including varsity athletes, who is interested may sign up in the weight room at the Rock or the ACC. An entrance fee of S2 will be charged to pay for awards. -The Observer 
I 

Monday, November 5, 1984 -page 10 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will be meeting 
tomorrow in O'Shaughnessy room 204. -Tbe Obseroer 
The Off-Campus hockey team will be 
meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in LaFortune. Players should bring proof of insurance to the meeting. The team's first practice will be Wed­nesday at 1 1 p.m. in the ACC. Full equipment will be required for the practice. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus basketball team is form­
ing. For information, call Tim at 287-1206 by Wednesday. -Tbe Obseroer 
Mike Golic and Eddie \Vh.ite, defensive end 
for the Irish football team and assistant sports information director, 
respectively, will be the Guests on "Speaking of Sports" tomorrow. 
The show will air at a new time, 9 p.m., on WVFI-AM 64. Listeners 
may ask questions or make comments by calling 239-6400. -The 
Obseroer 
see BRIEFS, page 13 
CANCER. 
NOT 
KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
IS YOUR 
GREATEST 
RISK. 
Please
.support the 
AMERICAN
I
WCANCER 
'SOCIETY® 

Tht• ()/Jsert•er 1\j<Hrt: Dame office. locatt·d on the third floor of LaFortune Studt·nt Ct·nter. an:t·pts dassifkd adn·rtbing frnm I) a.m. until ·I p.m.. ;\londay through Frida~. 7he Ohserz·er Saint \Ian ·s otlkt·. located on tht· third tloor of llaggar College: CcnttT. an:cpts (.:la:-.sifieds from 12:;~0 p.m. until 5 p.m.. :\!on­day though friday. lkadlinc: for nc:xt-liay cla~~itkd~ i~ 5 p.m. All dassitkds must be prepaid. c:ithcr in person or by mail. Chargt: is I 0 cents per fi\'e charac­
Classifieds 
ters cr dav. 

FOR SALE! ZARFS 
A: HOW MUCH DID YOU PAY FOR
LOST: A PAPER ON C.S. PEIRCE WAS One uMd Birthday Cllke with 21 uMd By the time you read this we will have THAT BOSS DRESS?? 
PERSONALS
NOTICES LOST ON TUES. LAST WEEK IN CUS­Cllndlea. Ortgl.-.lly ..ld: HAPPY 21st already have been to Ohio and back. The HING OR THEREABOUTS. PLEASE KATHY weekend was lantasttcl That female INTERESTED IN STARTING A CHAM­
CALL MIKE 287-8264 OR RETURN TO Now It uya: THY friend of your brother·s was definitely a 41
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, PIONS CAMPIAGN OR HAVE ONE IPHILOSOPHY DEPT. IF FOUND. IT IS Thl• can be aold with or without one
EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 CARRY OUT Tll3 A.M., US 31 N . ONE CAN GET INTO? CALL STEVE AT 4052 
OF EXTREME IMPORTANCE FOR MY 
uMd 21 y•r old Birthday Woman What Ia • fencer?
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
THESIS.
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082 named Kathy Sh•nnon. If lnt.,..ted D...danng. 
MISS CHALECKI: Don't bother "looking Cllll -2668 after the Birthday Party ta E ... exciting 
SAFE TO THRASH!!! lor it in the lost and found. It won"t beLOST Please help me recovet' my lost
TYPING over! Beet Olfer. Starting blct.-$2.10 &...beautiful there. Love. usMechanics of Solids Book. If you have in­(with our Birthday Woman $.21 !) & ... bungling
Jack1e Boggs 
formation or my book please call 232· I...insatiable
684-8793 
NEED TICKETS to Penn State. Parents THANK YOU ST. JUDE K. leave
0912 and talk to John or a Two room efficiency, furnished, private want to see first NO football game. Hey. E ... exotic 
message. 
entrance, good neighborhood, utilities 
they're my parents. wtlat can I say. Please LOOKING FOR EXPERT TYPING 277-8534 after 5:30 paid 277-3604/288-0955 sell me 2 GAs, or lam in the dog's house. FAME ... FORTUNE ... AND THE EXCITE·
LOST HP 11C CALCULATOR!! IF 
Call Maureen at1333. MENT OF HAVING YOUR VERY OWNFOUND CALL MICHELLE 1283. LOST:
TYPING AVAILABLE. 287-4082. BY-LINE? OKAY.. .THE FORTUNE
LADIES GOLD WRISTWATCH. IF Ann Murphy
THERE IS NO'SUCH THING AS A MA· PART IS LIMITED, BUT IF YOU LIKE TO FOUND CALL AIXA 1283. 1 heard you had an intet'esling birthday 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-81187 TURE RESPONSE WRITE. IF YOU ARE ARTISTIC, OR IF
TICKETS experience. I have a birthday present lor 
YOU SIMPLY HAVE A FUNNY SENSE TYPING SERVICE at reasonable rates. MERCY IS FOR THE WEAK you too! OF HtJMOR, THE FAME AND EXCITE· Very professionally done on the latest .... A secret admirerer MENT ARE YOURS. COME TO THE IBM and XEROX word processing equip­HEY!! You don't -n1111-thoee guya ooooooooooh my, it's that guyl!!! OBSERVER FEATURES MEETING
FOR RENT 
ment. Please call 287·5157. Will deliver play Penn State! I don't lither· but my THIS WEDNESDAY (NOV. 7) AT 7 IN and pick up. Copying service also friend from PSU -nta to gloet... So THE LITTLE THEATRE OF
VOTE TOMORROW • VOTE TOMOR· Mil me your STUDENT TICKET to PSU
available. ROW· VOTE TOMORROW LAFORTUNE AND FIND OUT HOW. NO
FOR RENT: A 21 YEAR OLD BIRTHDAY 
now. You'll feel better for lt. Cllll Keith Anne O'Malley,lalt true wh•t they My EXPERIENCE NECESSARY.
GIRL NAMED KATHY SHANNON.
Students interestdd in receiving the com· 3345. VOTE TOMORROW VOTE •bout women with gta....? REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED.
THERE IS ONE COMPLICATION.
puling newsletter TOMORROW VOTE TOMORROW 
Bytellne SINCE SHE HAS AN EXAM TOMOR· Need Penn State tix-Student or G.A. Call Attn. LIZ81'd Woman!!! ROW YOU MUST HAVE HER BACK IN
should call Beny Praklet at 239-5934 to F•an2596 I'm gonna senda some friends of mine
St. Gov't Lobby Commission reminds
TIME FOR THE EXAM! OR ELSE SHE ovet' to breaka you lace. You betta not
get on the mai~ng list. STUDENTS REGISTERED TO VOTE IN LITTLE SINNER! 
WON"T GET TO GO TO LAW SCHOOL Need Penn State G.A. tix to help Frank missa you dass ever again!
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INDIANA: ON­LITTLE SINNER! VOTE ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6. and Judy (My mom and dad) celebrate STUDENTS VOTE Bruno UTTLE SINNER!
AND HER FATHER WILL HAVE TO GET CAMPUS • INTHE SHOT -GUN!(since she has very ex· their anniversary. Call Maria 4174 
STEPAN CENTER ON TUESDAY OFF­ARE WE STILL FRIENDS AFTERpens1vehabits!) -2668 ask for Kathy. 
Hey .U you production mtr people, CAMPUS STUDENTS • VOTE IN YOUR WHAT I'VE DONE TO YOU TODAY? I th.. Ia a mandlltory deelgn meeting I'm out het'e naked for PENN STATE GA"s Grunt, Grunt CAN'T SAY I'M SORRY BECAUSE I'M
ASSIGNED PRECINCTS ON TUESDAY on Tueaday, November 6 at 6:30. It $$$$$$$$ call JOE AT 3554 Me Gottum Date 
NOT, ONLY IF YOU FOUND IT OFFEN­
•hould be • real fun time. eo I aure ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC ARMY MeT81ce'em S.ck To Room SIVE. IF SO I APOLOGIZE. IF YOU hope you can makell •. or elM! NMd two atudent tickets for the PENN ROTC DORI\,\ RECRUITING THIS Grunt, Grunt STILL LOVE ME, GIVE ME A SIGN.
WANTED 
STATE. It you e11n help plene call Dan 
WEEK AND NEXTII!!! SEE YOUR MASTER CHARGE VOTE FOR JUSTICE YOU MAY NEED at 1740. 
DORM REP. ON HOW YOU CAN APPLY MASTER CHARGE IT SOME DAY VOTE DEMOCRATIC 
Maria,

FOR 3 AND 2 YEAR ROTC SCHOLAR­MASTER CHARGE Boston area families seek quality need Penn State tickets call Jim 277-3616 Paneger-vous mon vin avec moi cette
SHIPS.
childcare in excrange for room, board, weekend?
TODAY IS ......
and a competitive salary. Please contact PierreKATHY SHANNON"$ ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC Kate Goldfield at 617-332-6056 or Beth
21st BIRTHDAY Penn State tickels, Penn State tickels SEE YOUR DORM AROTC REP ABOUT 
Ingram at 617-877-7739 or write to The .... .................
YES FOR THOSE INTERESTED I need two. I nfled two HOW YOU CAN APPLY FOR 2 AND 3 ............... . Dear PAINTERS, Certain women of
Family Ex~nge.lnc.. 25lakeview Ave., PITT CLUB THANKSGIVING BUS SIGN 
PEOPLE, THIS WOMAN WAS BORN 21 Gall me if you got some YEAR AAOTC SCHOLARSHIPS Walsh are considet'ing having a SAM· 
YEARS AGO TODAY. SHE ENJOYS Newton, MA. 02160. Call me if you got some UPS: Wedneaday, November 7, 6-7 BUCA HAPPY HOUR. but need more info 
Vinee at 2. 5-3·8 p.m. In L8fortune Little ThMter. $45
GETTING FLOWERS AND PHONE Ode to 234 I am all set, I will not m1ss A as to your tdentity. Are you sure you know WANTE~DEAD OR AUVE Five round trip, $30 one way. OuNtlona?
CALLS! ·26681 chance to get. a little kiss Or something what Sambuca is? we·ve never heard of 
Dealgn Editors and five ...tatanta to Cllll A.J. et 1657. 
more My lire is lit, I'm burning for The ser·ing Sambuca hot. The Sambucaahow up •t the TuHday production 
FOR SALE: EXCELLENT SEAT TO 
Passion Pit. Nov9 Nov 9 Nov9 Nov 9 Nov lovers
mMtlng at 6:30. BILLY SQUIER CONCERT-WILL SELL HI. My name Ia Frenk. I need your help. AT COST CALL 3480 ASK FOR "C" You .... lhe whole family Is coming Dont let CINDY FEVER die!!!!! Join the
LOST/FOUND 9 
DO YOU SEW? If you do. then I over from the old country to ... the
HUNGRY? CALL THE YELLOW SUB few. the proud, the CINDY LOVERS I
desperately need your help. For more in­Yugo811tv hoopa tMm, and If I don't get
FOR FREE DELIVERY 272-4453 MO. TH 
.........................................
formation on how you can give a guy in 32 tickets, well, my big brother Lepovlk
8-11 pm FA-SA 8pm-1 am We like Reagan NEED2GA& 1 STUDTIXFORPENNST
LOST! LOST! LOST! need some help contact: WW at 2035. will wrap my accordtan eround my We like fate. 
CALL LAURA 284·5401 
neck uverel tl~. So give me • Cllll.
16" GOLI HERRIN<HtONE ATTENTION ALL DESIGN EDITORS We'll all glow 
WANTED: NO STUDENTS OF ALL
NECKLACE by'88
AND ASSISTANTS There Ia • manda­MY CONGRESSMAN-MY HERO-MY
EXTREME SEt-!TIMENTAL VALUE! MAJORS TO MEET WITH THE NOR· I •m Emperor Ron81d Reag~~n Born
tory production depltrtment meetingSUMMER EMPLOYER (I HOPE!!) IS
REWARD IF FOUND THERN TRUST BANK TO DISCUSS again with f•clat cravings. Still, you
on Tu..ctay, Nov. 6 •t 6:30. You mu•tCOMING FOR THE PENN. STATE
CALL 1647 CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN co-. make me pr..ldent. Cloee your eyM,
be there, •nd th•t'• e thr•t!
GAME. PLEASE SELL ME AT LEASTMERCIAL BANKING, TRUST AND
PLEASE! •nd cloee your mlnda. Welcome to
TWO GA TIX. I CAN ALSO THROW IN 
BANKING OPERATIONS, SUPERVI· 1984. -Jello Btafre
VIETNAM II THE SEQUEL COMING IN
F>1.n8uii:iioeRs: •1eii·~·ci;~:s ~;;a;,: SOME PENN. STATE STUD TIX. THIS
SION, MARKETING AND CUSTOMER Do you know how Reagan is going to im­
JANUARY TO A CENTRAL AMERICAN 
MAN IS THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
ping bag with a birthday present and SERVICE. WHEN: THURSDAY, NOV. 8, FNG-it's been two great years-thanks for prove his popularity among Hispanics
THEATER NEAR YOU Produced by:
some albums (they can be identified by 11184,7 ·II P.M. WHE)tE: UNIVERSITY HOUSE PRO.UFE CAUCUS (I'M DES. all the memories-IL Y MNR ???? I heard that he s going to cut a
Ronald Reagan Directed by: Thelntel­
their skips) on the bus wtlen I got off at CLUB, UPPER LOUNGE. WE ARE PERATE I HAD TO MENTION THAn, record with Julio lglestas. 
ttgenc:. Community Starring: Your
SMC. If you happened to take it with you, LOOKING FORWARD TO TALKING SO DO YOUR PART TO STAMP OUT KATHY·ARE YOU SERIOUS ABOUT
Brother, Your Boyfriend, YourMif Stop
please call Stephanie at 284·5526. WITH YOU! ABORTION BY KEEPING THIS MAN WANTING TO SEE YOU NAME IN
the Invasion. Vote Mondale/Ferraro. 
Thanks. HAPPY. CALL (277·7570) SAVE THE 
CLASSIFIEDS? SO SERIOUS THAT I WOULD LIKE A CALC TUTOR FOR 
UNBORN!!Ill!! 
YOU WOULD THINK ABOUT PUTIING The ZARFS Do Ada, Ohio!!!
LOST: A TAN. WHITE, AND OliVE 
CALC 125. PLEASE CONTACT PAT AT IT IN YOURSELF? SINCE IT IS YOUR Steph, do you really know wtlere you·re
JACKET HAD A FEW TOO MANY IM· 3055
• 
21st BIATHD~Y I THOUGHT THAT I
IT'S THAT HUNGRY GUY. going? Officer, I wasn't really doing 78,
PORTS AT CORBY"S AND LEFT IT 2 PENN. STATE ST. TlCKETS FOR WOULD MAKE YOUR DAY BY WRITING was I? Pig Heaven!t King Laux is gor­
THERE THUAS .OCT.11. IT MEANS PART TIME HOSTESS FOR EXECU· SALE CALL 277-3679 THIS LITILE PERSONAL FOR YOU. I geous! Everyone got zipped. NAPA sign. 
ALOT TO ME! PLEASE CALL JIM AT 
TIVE COCKTAIL LOUNGE MONDAY KNOW ITS NOT MUCH, BUT THESE Louise got a bruise. Whet'e"s Carolyn?
3444!!! THROUGH THURSDAY FROM 5:00 TO ATTENTION FEATURES WRITERS AT· DARN(edited) THINGS ARE EXPEN· ONU. I really didn"t see that car! Record
7:30 PM. KNOWLEDGE OF BAR TENTION FEATURES WRITERS AT· SIVE. Happy Blrthclay Kathy Shennon! 
time. Angela isn't, she owns onet Cold
LOST: GOLD TIE BAR BETWEEN HELPS APPLY IN PERSON TO: TICKETS FOR SALE TENTION FEATURES WRITERS YOU ARE MY BEST FRIEND AND I night, but B1ll was warml Hurry back toNORTH DINING HALL AND GRACE HOWARD JOHNSON'S I HAVE 21 TICKETS TO SELL. THESE ATTENTION FEATURES WRITERS AT· LOVE YOU! USA 
HALL ON THE Tl:IESDAY BEFORE 52939U.S.31 NO. ARE NOT NO FOOTBALL TICS, THESE TENTION FEATURES: Thet'e will be a work 
BREAK GREAT SENTIMENTAL SOUTH BEND, IN. ARE BETTER. EACH TICKET ALLOWS mandatory meeting this Wednesday night Dear PAINTERS, Certain women from 
VALUE. IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL YOU TO KISS KATHY $MANNON (not at 7 in the Utile Theatre of Lafortune. Walsh considering having a SAMBUCA 
KEVIN AT 4009. OR 239-7672. once but) 21 TIMES!!!! PRICE Thet'e are lots of exciting things to discuss HAPPY HOUR, but need more info about 
WANTED NEGOTIABLE AND MAY VERY and refreshments will be served so.... your 1dentity. We"d like try hot Sambuca. 
Kelly Anne. I nevet' knew you were suct1 a
FOUND LADY"S WATCH 11/01 IN A BIRTHDAY CAKE WITH 21 CANDLES DEPENDING UPON EACH BUYERS DON'T MISS IT DON'T MISS IT DON'T 
bowling goddess-1t's too bad the Roney
FRONT OF CAVA'IIAUGH CALL TOM AND A MAN TO DELIVER IT TO MY TECHNIQUE AND TIMING. THIS OF· MISS IT DON'T MISS IT DON'T MISS IT CATHERINE, MARIA, THERESE AND bit the dust. It looks like we may be Hall of 
2466 
FRIEND: KATHLEEN KELLY SHAN­FER IS FOR A UMITED TIME ONLY· DON'T MISS IT DON'T MISS IT DON'T TRISH (WALSH WOMEN): LET"S GET Fame bound. It's time for some more New 
NON IF YOU ARE AVAILABLE JUST TODAY. SUBMIT YOURSELF AND MISS IT DON'T MISS IT "BUZZED"" BEFORE THE CONCERT? I Orleans action--the South wilt nevet' know 
LOST! LOST! LOSTIILLINOIS DRIVERS STOP BY WALSH HALL-second floor­MONEY TO 226 WALSH HALL. IF NO THINK THAT BETWEEN THE ERECT wnat hit it! Good tuck on Psych this week·LICENSE LOST A~ CORBYS ON HAL· AND LOOK FOR KA THY"S ROOM. (hint: ONE IS THERE LEAVE YOUR NAME, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU BUTTON, THE DESEX CARD, THE be the Freudian complex!! P.S. Snuggles LOWEEN NIGHT REWARD IF YOU het' room is by the bathroom!) PICTURE, AND BID TO ONE OF HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU LAMPSHAOE, THE WAX LIPS, THE sends his best. 
PICKED IT UP. CALL JOHN LEINEN· KATHY'S NEIGHBORS NEXT HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEAR KATHY MOUSSE AND THE FIVE DRINK VAAl· WEBER AT 2089. DOOA(AIGHT SIDE) OA ACROSS THE HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU ETIES-WE MIGHT HAVE O~ER DONE HALL DIAGOHALL Y(ON RIGHT) FROM HEY THERE DOUBLE K. NOW THAT IT! 1·2·1·2·3 DRINK! YOUR FAVORITE 
LOST! 226. YOUVE FINALLY REACHED THE AGE GROUPIE, MARK LOU RETTON 21YEARS FOR SALE OF LEGALITY, HOW ABOUT GOING TO BJA, your ring has been very happy ·ror 
IF FOUND PLEASE RETURN TO I Need It Bad!!!!! One Penn St. hcket-stu­SENIOR BAR AS A STUDENT AND not Nancy Jo I smelt bacon burning Penny I the past week!!! Thank-you for suct1 a KATHY SHANNON dent or G.A. Please caU Grace-3781. AS AN ALUMNA!!!! I STILL CAN'T FIG· can'tBEAR to be without you wonderful weekend, and we are gomg to c/o 226 Walel'l Hall JUSTIN BOOTS BRAND NEW ALL URE OUT HOW THE DOOR PEOPLE have to imprcwe your average. It looks hke 
Of LEATHER WOMEN"S 7B $100 RANDY Will pay topS for 5 Penn State GA's (must COULD LET YOU IN AT THE AGE OF 18 A: WHAT HAPPENED TO YOUR -may be Hall of Fame bound (you Clln · · CALL:2618 272-6815 be together)Call Tiff 284-4342 ASANALUMNAI WHAT A WOMAN!! MOUTH???? teact1 thoee Southerners how to party!!!) J ............-.................................................... 'l 
The Observer 'Monday, November 5, 1984-page 11 

SMC COTHs majors Pre-pre-registration 
In the departmental office, 110 Morreau 8am-12pm, lpm-5pm 

Juniors and Seniors: Monday~ Nov.S 
Sophomores:Tuesday~ Nov.6 Freshman: Wednesday~ Nov. 7 

Hockey 
continuedfrom page 16 
Irish freshmen stepped smoothly into collegiate hockey as four of the team's six rookies scored their first career goals in the series. Center Mike McNeill tallied a goal and an as­sist on Friday. Then on Saturday, defensemen Frank O'Brien and Pat Foley along with center Tom Mooney made the scoring sheet for the first time. 
"All of the freshmen played fan­tastically," said Chapman. "Without them we can't win. They stepped right in and played like upperdas­smen." 
Both Notre Dame goaltenders turned in sound performances. Sophomore Tim Lukenda made 30 saves on Friday and senior A1 Haverkamp turned away 35 Penn State shots in Saturday's victory. 
The Irish got off to slow starts both nights, but once they got going, they never looked back. 
The Lions struck first on Friday, but by the end of the season's opening period, Notre Dame held a 2-1 lead. Lynn Sipe got Penn State on the board at the nine-minute mark, but SO seconds later Chapman banged home his first goal to tie the score at 1-1 with a blistering drive from the right side. Thebeau then gave the Irish their 2-1 lead with just 
Sports Staff Meeting 
There will be a mandatory meeting of all mem­bers of the Observer sports staff tomorrow at 
6:30 p.m. in the Observer office. Anyone who would like to write sports for the rest of the year must attend. If, for some very good reason, you can­not make the meeting, contact Mike Sullivan by this afternoon. The coverage of winter sports will be discussed as well as improvements in the current coverage. 

The Future is Now . . . Be Part cifIt with the 
NBC MIST 
INING 
·pRQG 
M 
The National Broadcasting Company offers an excellent opportunity to combine a technically based career with a broad range of business activities in our MIS Department in beautiful Westchester county, New York, just one hour north of New York City. 
Upon joining NBC you will participate in a rigorous six month training program. Usmg proven classroom and on-the-job techniques, Senior Systems Executives and Training Specialists will expose you to NBC's technical environment and software applications. You will be given the opportunity to explore career choices available in Systems Programming, Applications Programming and Telecommunications, leading to a permanent professional level position in one of these areas. 
We are seeking graduates with an aptitude for programming. Candidates should possess a strong academic record, excelfent oral and written communication skills and the ability to work in a team environment as well as independently. 
Take advantage of these exceptional opportunities to join NBC and apply advanced data processing techniques in one of the most exciting industries ... BROADCASTING. 
NBC will be hosting a Special Presentation 
For Our MIS TRAINING PROGRAM 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1984, 8:00-10:00 PM 
THE ALUMNI ROOM AT THE MORRIS INN 
PLAN TO ATTEND! 
or write to: The National Broadcasting Company, MIS Training 
Program, Administrator, Recruitme~t, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, 
New York 10020. 

NBC 
NBC is an equal opportunity employer 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
two seconds remaining in the period as his shot from the right point deflected off Penn State defender Jeff Speece and past goale Gerri Hourihan. 
Four goals in the second stanza in­creased the Notre Dame lead to 6-2. Chapman, Tim Reilly, Jeff Badalich and Greg Duncan accounted for the scores: Sipe's second goal of the game was the lone Penn State tally of the period. 
The Irish lead increased to five goals when McNeill tapped home his first goal after finding himself and the puck alone in the crease behind Hourihan. Chapman completed his hat trick at the 8:56 mark as he made some nice moves to elude a Penn State defender and bank the puck off ofa surprised Hourihan's skate. 
just as in Friday''~ game, Penn State jumped out to a quick 1-0 lead on Saturday on a goal by Nick Pappas just 1:18 into the game. O'Brien's slapshot from the left wing pulled the Irish even at 8:35. But by the end of the period, Penn State went on top 2-1 when Pat McQuillan slid the puck past Haverkamp from a crowd in front of the net. 
Jim Yoblecki put the Lions on top 3-1 within the first two minutes of the second period with his wrist shot from inside the left face-off circle, and it looked as though Penn State had found the momentum it needed to avenge the previous night's defeat. 
The Irish, however, weren't happy with the turn of events and promptly decided to make things miserable for their guests. Tallies by McNeill, Reilly and Steve Ely gave Notre Dame a 4-3 lead at the end of the second period. 
"lbe crowd had a lot to do with our performance," said Reilly. "We had been waiting to play for a while. And after the slow start, they really helped to get us going." 
In the third period Notre Dame showed no mercy as it capitalized six more times to bring the score to its final margin. Mooney started the Irish barrage just 25 seconds into the period. Thebeau then fired home three straight goals for his hat trick. Foley's wrist shot from the top of the left circle and an Ely breakaway goal rounded out the scoring for the victorious Irish. 
The rough and tumble play utilized by both teams accounted for its share of casualties. Badalich suf­fered a chest injury on Friday and did not play Saturday. Rob Ricci was also absent from the Irish lineup with a thigh contusion. Tom Parent left Saturday's game and was later diagnosed to have a separated shoulder. Four Penn State players did not dress Saturday including Sipe, the Lions' leading scorer. 
Notre Dame's next action is Friday and Saturday when the Irish travel to the University of Michigan­Dearborn. 
***************** 
NBA Standings 
NBA 
Eutem Conference Atlantic Dlvlelon 

W  L  Pet.  GB  
Philadelphia  4  0  1.000  
Boston  3  0  1.000  .5  
N-Jersey  2  3  .400  2.5  
Washington  2  4  .333  3  
NewYorll  1  4  .200  3.5  

Centr.l Dlvlelon Milwaukee 4 1 .800 Chicago 3 2 .600 1 Atlanta 2 3 .400 2 Detroit 2 3 .400 2 Indiana 1 3 .250 2.5 Cleveland 0 5 .000 4 
WMtem Confer.nce Mldweet Dlvlelon 

w L Pet. 08 Houston 4 0 1.000 San Antonio 4 1 .800 .5 Denver 3 1 .750 1 Utah 2 3 .400 2.5 Dallas 2 4 .333 3 KansasOty 0 5 .000 4.5 
Peclflc Dlvlelon Phoenix 5 0 1.000 Portland 3 2 .600 2 L.A. Clippers 2 2 .500 2.5 L.A.L.akert 3 3 .500 2.5 S..ttte 2 3 400 3 Golden State 1 <4 .200 <4 
Yaua•f'•....,.. San AnkJnio 131, New York 130, 2 OT L.A. L.akert 124, Portland 1111 

'\ 
l \ 
\ 
~ 
\ \ 
. ~ ' ' \ \ \ I l \ 
h 
~\ ~\ 
.\ 
~\ ~\ 
~\ 
~\ 
~. 
l 
., 
~ 
•\ 
I\\ 
~ \ 
~· 
~ 
~\ 
•
~\ ~\ ~\ ~\ ~\ ~\ 
[\
~\ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~~ 
~\ 
'\ 
'\ 
.,~\ 
l\' 
·)·\\ 
'I 
·\ l 
I\\ 
~\ ~\ 
l \ 
~\ 
~\ , 
~ ' 
1\ 
1\ 
~\ 
~\ 
•\ 
~\ 
··~' 
',·
·'· 
l \ 
~\ 
.r 
'I 
1\ 
~~ 
\\
)\
1\ 
\~ 
~~ 
1\ 
\ I, 
,,.·, 
\ 

~ t ...... 
Chicago punishes Raiders 
CHICAGO-Walter Payton rushed for 111 yards and two touchdowns yesterday and the Chicago Bears, in­timidating the intimidators, defeated the Los Angeles Raiders, 1 7-6, in a bruising National Football League contest. 
The Bears registered nine sacks 
for losses of 58 yards and sidelined 
quarterbacks Marc Wilson and 
David Humm at various times while 
Bear quarterback jim McMahon did 
not come back in the second half be­
cause ofa back injury. 
Payton, rushing for 100 yards for 
an 18-yard run in the first quarter 
and on an 8-yard dash in the second 
quarter to stake the Bears to a 14-0 
lead. 
The Super Bowl champions, 
hounded by the Bear defense, never 
recovered and had to settle for a pair 
of field goals. 
Chris Bahr booted a 44-yard field 
goal on Los Angeles' last possession 
in the first halfand connected with a 
40-yarder on its first possession in 
the second h.tlf. 
Midway in the first quarter the 
Bears drov '6 yards for a touch­
down with cMahon hitting Willie 
Gault with 0-yard pass to the Los 
Angeles 2<, rd line. Payton gained 
eight and tl went 18 for the score. 
The Be then recovered a 
Humm fun and couldn't cash in. 
But on the ' Los Angeles posses­
sion, Leslie azier intercepted a 
Wilson pass i returned 33 yard~ 
to the Raide l 1. Two plays later 
Payton went 10nd left end for th( 
score. 1 
Late in tht .ourth quarter, th 
Raiders marched from their own sb 
yard line to the Chicago 16 wit: 
Marcus Allen biting Todd Christen 
sen with a 38-yard pass. But Richaw 
Dent's third offour sacks ofthe gamL 
caused Wilson to fumble and Dent 
recovered for Chicago. 

Monday, Nov~mber 5, 1984 -page 12 
Takes second at NAIA Tournament 
SMC volleyball finishes season 
By KELLY PORTOLESE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team completed its 1984 campaign with a sparkling 18-7 record after an im­pressive showing at this weekend's NAIA District 21 tournament. 
The Belles advanced to the cham­pionship game by downing Marion College, 2-1 5, 1 S-7, 16-14, 4-1 S, 15­11, and Goshen College, 3-1 5, 15­11, 1 5·8, 1 5-13, before bowing to Franklin College, the eighth-ranked team in the nation in NAIA, 1 S-8, 1 5­7, 1S-1. 
Second-year coach Brian Goralski was very pleased with his team's per­formance. 
"We accomplished a lot this weekend," he said. "Franklin was a really good team and we should be at their level next year." 
Franklin featured two players over six-feet tall and, because of its height advantage, frequently was able to place corner shots over the blocks of the Saint Mary's defenders. In addition, Franklin ran a S-1 of­fense with a very good setter execut­ing the plays. As a result, its offense had many different options -more options than the Belles had been exposed to this year. 
In the first game ofthe title match, the Belles built up an 8-4 lead. But the momentum changed hands and Franklin rallied for 11 unanswered points and a 1 5-8 triumph. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 

I 
SOCIETYe 
Courcbevel, France
SKJthe 
World's LargestALPSJIJ SkiAreal CHRISTMAS BREAK'84 Departs: N.Y., Boston: $1019 
lriCUJDES EVEKYfHiriG: 
• 
All Lift Tickets, good • 8 nights lodging. • Round trip airfare for 170 lifts breakfast~ dinner, VIA AIR FRANCE 

• 
One day and night double occupancy, • FRI!.E Guided in GENEVA private bath powder skiing SWITZERLAND. 


Call For Reservations and Information: International Collegiate Ski Assn. 
1-800-521-6455 

$1 00 oH any p1zza.$1.00 One coupon per p1zza 
Off Fast. Free Delivery'" Plaza 23 Center 1835 South Bend Ave. South Bend Phone: 277-2151 
Expires in one week. 
JTC NA 12812650 
~®·%· -·~ ""'"~ 
Franklin's quick sets to the outside often allowed only one Saint Mary's blocker to attempt a block and, thus, limited the Belles' defen­sive efforts at the net in the second game. The Belles stayed with the host team most ofthe way, however, but could not hang on and fell, 15-7. 
The long match with Goshen in the morning's semi-final round, along with a three-hour layover, seemed to take its toll on the Belles in the third game as they dropped a 15-1 decision to give Franklin the championship. 
In Friday night's op«ning-round action, Saint Mary's met up with the Lady Titans of Marion which had defeated the Belles in a thrilling five­game match less than a week ago. Marion, which runs a stacked of­fense, is always full of surprises on the court, but, in this rematch, it featured two starters who were not present last Monday night. The Belles, however, were not in­timidated. 
"We were ready for everything they threw at us," said Goralski. "The whole team played well and everybody did their job. The setters did a good job and we were well­prepared. We played awesome." 
At 11 :00 a.m. on Saturday, the Belles were ready for another grudge match -this time against Gos­hen which had handed the Belles a mid-season loss. 
Initially the Belles came out a little cold and eventually dropped the first game, 1 5-3. But they quickly turned things around and began put­ting everything together, taking the next three games for the victory. 
Senior Ann Boutton, who was 
named to the all-district honorable­
mention team, led the offensive at­
tack along with sophomore Mary 
Reidy and freshman Mary Carole 
Feldman. The Belles' serving also 
proved to be very effective as Gos­
hen's backcourt was unable to get 
off many good passes. 

For senior co-captains Molly Baker and Boutton, the tournament marked their last performances in Saint Mary's uniforms. Goralski noted that their leadership and playing abilities will be missed by next year's squad. 
Because they are the only seniors on this year's squad, though, Goralski has much to look forward to next season. 
"I think everyone (at the tourna­ment) was astonished as to how well we did. I was really happy," said the coach. 
With this year's talent, youth and enthusiasm, along with a couple of promising prospects in line for next season, Goralski has every reason to be excited about the future of Saint Mary's volleyball. 
t-1-\'""~ 
j 
Plant a Smile 

Dfal283-4242 
d"":=:H=-t.ou_r_•l2-:30--5:30_G ARDENS 

To The Women 
To The Italian American Community 
(Historical Moment) 

To the Rainbow Coalition 
VOTE 
Tuesday Nov. 6 
for 

MO~'~ALE•FERR ~-~0 
• ~Paid Political Endorsement by Anne Johnson -~ 
The Observer Monday, November 5, 1984-page 13 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 
Club and interhall basketballentries are due 
by Wednesday. Rosters and proofof insurance should be submitted to the NVA office. Complete entry rules are available at the office. -
Tbe Observer 
Interhall hockey entries are due at the NVA of­fice on Wednesday. Complete entry rules are available at the office.­
Tbe Observer 
A one-on-one basketball tournament is being sponsored by NVA. The tournament will have two divisions for men: those over six feet tall, and those shorter than six feet. Double elimi­nation will be in effect after the second round. The registration deadline at the NVA office is Friday. -Tbe Observer 
Squash and table tennis tournaments are being sponsored by NVA. Both tournaments are open to all students, fac­ulty and staff. The registration deadline is Wednesday.-The Observer 
The NVA "Turkey Shoot" will be held Nov. 13 and 1S. The team target-shooting competition is open to teams of two men and two women each. Equipment and supervision will be provided. The deadline to reserve a time at the NVA office is Friday. -Tbe Observer 
Basketball and hockey officials are needed for the interhall season. Anyone interested should apply at the NVA office. -The Observer 
"Fitness Focus," a monthly newsletter published by Non-Varsity Athletics, is now available. To place your name on the mailing list, call the NVA office at 239-61 00. -The Observer 
NVA's Century Club is a program of exercise and fitness in which participants set their own exercise goals. For more information, contact the NVA office. -Tbe Observer 

lb~ Observ~r/Johannes Hack~ 

Morrissey running back Dwayne Hicks sweeps the left side for eigbt yards and a touchdown margin in Morrissey's 10-3 wtn. Howard also ad­during overtime in yesterday's playoff game vanced wttb a 7-0 win overZabm. Brian McCarthy against Dillon. Tbe score proved to be tbe decisive details yesterday's action on tbe. backpage. 
Playoffs 
continuedfrompage 16 
overtime victory. 
In the other game, Howard ousted Zahm from the playoffs by a score of 7-0. The game's only points came in the third quarter on a one-yard plunge by tailback Don Antrobus. 
This game was the tale of two halves as Zahm almost put the game away in the first half yet failed to score a point. On its first possession ofthe second quarter, Zahm running back Steve Dombrowski cut back behind Howard's pursuit and raced 60 yards to the end zone. Unfortun­ately for Zahm, the fine run was called back for a blocking-below­the-waist penalty. Howard defensive back Tim Kottak intercepted an en­suing Zahm pass to end the threat. 
After the teams exchanged punts, 
1st SOURCE TRAVEL 
3 locations to serve you 
*Airlines •Amtrack 
*United Limo 
BAPIN HALL Hours:8:30-4:45 Phone:239-7080 
DEClO HALL 
Hours:8:30-4:45 Phone:239-6683 
*Tour Packages
*Auto Rentals 
*Hotel Reservations 
HAGGAR COLLEGE 
Hours:8:30-4:30 
Phone:284-5606 
.......................................................................................................................................................I 
: :
I SUMMER JOB APPLICATIONS I 
I AVAILABLE I 
I I I= 
lne Notre Dame Alumni Assoclatioa, in cooperation with theI Career and Placement Services Office, will again sponsor the 1!summer job placement program in 1985. 1
I • . 
!uYOU are interested in applying for summer jobs in an alumni i lctub City, obtain an application from the Alumni Office, 201 Admin. II 
r~ . 
I I
I Applications must be completed and returned by November 30 i I 
.............................................................,........................................................................................... 
Howard lined up at the its own 47­yard line. On the first play, Zahm cornerback Tom Hynes ripped the ball out of the hands of the Howard 
receiver  and  took  off down  the  
sideline.  A  Zahm  touchdown  
seemed  inevitable  when,  at  the  

three-yard line, a hustling Howard player dove at Hynes and knocked the ball out of his hands. The ball flew out of bounds in the end zone for a touchback, giving Howard the ball on the 20. Despite much action, Zahm had no points to show for its efforts. 
Early in the second half, Kottak recovered a Zahm fumble onZahm's 
45. Antrobus ranfor 15 yards and Pat Clark carried the ball seven more yards to the 23-yard line. After gaining only two yards in the next two plays, Howard attempted a 3 7­yard field goal, but it was wide right and the game remained scoreless. 
Three plays later Howard threatened again when Clark inter­cepted a wobbly Zahm pass and returned it all the way to the Zahm 15-yard line. Howard quarterback Matt Kelty picked up 12 yards on a bootleg to set up Antrobus' touch­down. 
Zahm, which had been shut down by the Howard defense in the second half, finally showed signs of life. In the fourth quarter, Zahm quarterback Mark Palas.ld hooked up twice with end Tim Golonka, first for 20 yards, then for 30 more, to give Zahm a first down at the Howard 25-yard line. A face-mask penalty on Howard gave Zahm an­other first down at the 15. 
On the next play, Palaski rolled right andspotted an open receiver at the five-yard line. However, Clark was the hero again a5 he reached in front of the receiver for his second interception and returned the ball all the way to the Zahm 36 to sew up the victory. 

Next Sunday, Howard will try to become the first team to score on top-seeded Sorin, let alone beat them. Sorin defeated Howard, 8-0, on the last week of the regular season to clinch the Rockne divi­sion. 
In the other game, Morrissey tries to avoid a letdown following its big win over Dillon as it squares off against No. 2-seeded Stanford. 
Check Tbe Observer later this week for game times. 

********************************** 
SHAMPOO 
(RATED R) 
Starring: Warren Beatty Goldie Hawn Julie Christie 
Sunday, Nov. 4 and Monday, Nov. 5 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 Engineering auditorium 
$1.50 
**********************************~ 
PIZZERIA AND PUB 
130 Dixie Way North Roseland, Indiana (across from Big C Lumber) 
277-4519 

16'",11fem 
$6.95 
Call belofe 11 
EXPIRES 11/5/84 

The Observer Monday, November 5, 1984-page 14 

''.. \ 
\ ' 

'\ 
\ 


I 
\ 
:\ 
\
,·. 

I 
I 
i.
., 
\.·· 
Middies 
continuedfrom page 16 
ran into him on the follow through. With Colby laying on the ground in pain, Tranquill was screaming for a penalty but no flag was thrown. Had the penalty been called, Navy would have had the ball back with an auto­matic first down and the Irish unable to stop the clock. With exactly a minute left, the Midshipmen could have simply run out the clock. 
"I kicked it and I was looking up at the ball when all of a sudden I was hit," said Colby, who suffered a badly sprained ankle on the play and had to be carried off the field by his teammates. 
Referee Bill McDonald explained the call to Tranquill on the sidelines, but the Navy coach continued to protest. 
After the game, the officials allowed a pool reporter to interview McDonald, something that is rarely done in college football. 
"He (Tranquill) wanted an expla­nation and I told him it was a judge­ment call," said McDonald in a release issued to the media. "The punter ~as back on the ground when he was hit. It was a freak play. A kicker is no longer a kicker when his foot has returned to the ground. He was back on the ground when he was hit." 
Although television replays seemed to confirm McDonald's view of the play, Tranquill would not ac­cept the referee's explanation. 
"If his foot has just touched the ground after the punt, it's still rough­
ing the kicker," argued the Navy coach. 
The Irish, meanwhile, started their final possession in a less-than­impressive manner, as Howard's punt return to the Notre Dame 33 was negated by an Irish personal foul which moved them back to the 18. With one minute left, the Irish needed a field goal to win and were out of timeouts. 
But Beuerlein still had the hot hand, completing three straight passes, including a 29-yard screen pass to Pinkett to set up the winning field goal. On the play, Pinkett took the pass in the left flat, was sprung by dashed up the sideline as tackle Mike Perrino slammed Navy's Fudge, who was the last defender to have a shot at the tailback near the line of scrimmage. 
The pass-and-run play gave Notre Dame a first down at the Navy 26, and Beuerlein threw his next pass out of bounds to stop the clock. With 18 seconds remaining, the Irish were not about to take any chances, as Head Coach Gerry Faust brought in Carney to kick the game-winner. 
"I was really expecting to have to kick a longer one," said Carney. "Everything happened so quick -I didn't have much time to think 
Saturday's Game Navy 0 7 3 17 . Notre Dame 7 0 0 II 
1s 

Scoring 
NO -Pinkett I run (Carney kick) 
NA -Berner 6 run (Solomon kick) 
NA -Byrne l pas.< from I.aulctta (Solomon kick) 
NA -Solomon 32 FG 
NO -Pinkett I run (Howard pass from Beu~elein) 
ND -CMney 44 FG 
NA ND 

First downs 13 23 
Rushing attempts 38 55 
No:t Yar<h Rushing 114 184 
No:t Yards Passing 91 210 
Passes comp·attempted 14·27 16-30 
Had Intercepted 2 4 
Total Net Yard< 20~ 
394

Fumblo·lost 1-o 3.2 
Penalties-yards 
3-.zo 3-45 Punts-av~rage 9·37.1 3·38.7 lndBidual Leaders 
RUSHING-Navy: Clouse 14-56;Berner 11-43; Weiler 1·10; M. Smith 4·9; Misch 3·7; c. Smith 1·0; Hollinger 
2-(·1); Byrne 2{·10); Notre Dame: Pinkett 37·165; Smith 5·22; Brooks 2-7; Flemons I·( -2); Beuerlein 10­<·8 );
PASSING-Navy: Byrne 11·19·1,85; Misch 2·6·1,4; l.aulena 1·1·0,.2; Lobb 0·1·0,0; Noue Dame: Beuerlein 15·29·4,.209;Viracola 1·1·0,1; RECEMNG-Navy: Weller 4-47; Sniffen 2·11; Lobb I·II;Steveru; 1·8; Clouse 1·6; Hollinger 1·5; Berner I· 4; Byrne 1·2; Long J.(·I); M. Smith 1{·2);Nouc Dame: Brown 3·59; Pinkett 3·44; Gray 3·38; Howard 2·33; Bavaro 2·2'S; Smith 2-6; Williams I·S; Attendance-61,795 

TYPING Term Papers Resumes Letters Manuscripts Word Processing Call Chris at: 234-8997  


n
= 
~ 
~ 
t ~ 
~ 

THE COLLEGE OF SCIENC Presents 
MONDAY NIGHT IS 
PROF. MORTON S. FUCHS 
ACTION NIGHT 
halrrnan of the Biology and Microbiology Depta. 
*All you can eat spaghettifor$2.491 *2.50 pitchers! *50¢ pizza slices during 

gamet *Dart tournamentat9pm
It ••J• to be lettOf'Ht , eo•••••••· 
with cash prize! 
NOV. 6 AT 8:00PM 
about it. I knew (holder) Mike (Viracola) would be calling the count quick. As soon as I got out there, they snapped it and I kicked it. I kicked it almost on instinct." 
Faust had plenty of confidence in Carney, because of the consistency which the sophomore placekicker had displayed all season long. 
"As soon as Carney hit the field goal, I knew it was solid," said Faust. "You could hear it. There was no question on the distance, he really got into it. And he's been pretty ac· curate this year for us." 
Carney's field goal was a second 
source of controversy between 
Tranquill and the officials. The Navy 
coach claimed that the 25-second 
clock had expired before the ball clock had expired. To most obser­vers, however, the snap appeared to have occured after the clock showed zero. 

"The field judge is responsible for the 25-second clock," said McDonald. "His back was to the dock -he was watching the clock at the one end ofthe field. He lost sight for a few seconds because the defense was jumping up and down. In his opinion, the clock did not exceed 25 seconds." 
It was a tough defeat for Tranquill, . even more so because of the injury situation. In addition to Byrne and Colby, the Midshipmen lost senior tight end Mark Stevens, one of their captains, to a kneecap injury. They had come into the game with two of their top players -tailback Napolean McCallum and defensive back Eric Wallace -already sidelined. 
Notre Dame also lost some key performers to injuries. Tight endo; Mark Bavaro and Joel Willaims, guard Larry Williams, and linebacker Mike Larkin all were hampered by injuries suffered during the course of the game. 
But the Irish managed to overcome the injuries, as well as their own mistakes, to raise thier record to S-4. 
"It would have been a terrible loss. That's obvious," said Beuerlein. "It would have brought a very tough situation on us. Fortunately, we saved ourselves." 
At least for the time being. 

was snapped. If a delay of game penalty had been called, Carney would have had to attempt a 49· yarder. Earlier in the game, the soph· omore had missed a 50-yarder. 
"I would stake my life that the 
You Can Buy
25-second clock ran out on the field goal, and I would stake my life that it 
This Baby A
was roughing the punter," said Tran­quill, who also found fault with the officiating in his team's 28-28 tie 
Lifetime! 
h p gh
wit ittsbur last week. "Some of these guys (the officials) are gutless 

when the game is on the line, and that's what I have to say about that. I hate to take shots at the officials, but 
it's been two weeks in a row that this 

has happened to us. 
"I Watched the clock go to zero and then I looked out and saw the 
ball Snapped. The Officials had no ex­planation for me." 
McDonald, meanwhile, could not 
say for certain whether or not the 
~ HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL ~ 
MBA PROGRAM 

An Admissions Representative from Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration will be on campus 
November 15, 1984 

to meet with students interested in 
Aclauy, award-winning song and dance celebration of Duke Ellinglon'a music. 
the two-year MBA ProgramMorris Civic Auditorium-South Bend FRI. & SAT., NOV. 9 & 10-8 p.m. (E.S.T.) 
a block from center Mike Kelley, and 
Contact the

Need Em. c.....__ 
Tickets: $2a.itt$19.50 $14.50 $10.50 
Career Planning and Placement Center
SOLD OUT
MONEY?? 
for more details and to sign ur for
Box Office Open Daily (Except Sun.) 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Telephone Sales-Experience 
Telephone (219) 284-9190 
an information session.

prefet •eel but not required. 
MuterCard & Viu Accepted • Group & Student Di.counu
Part or FuD time. 
CAILU4·H7S 
Harvard Business School is committed to

.TheBroadway Theatre League 
the principle of equal educational opportunity. 

P.O. Box 866 South Bend, IN 46624 
clip and sa'\·e-dip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip and save-clip 1» 
LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
ltiii.;2iiiiOiii4iiiii6~Siiioiiiiiu~tiiiihiiiiiB~eiiiin~d~A~viiiie~.iiiiiiii~2iiii7ii2i.-4iii9~3~5..11 a--Hours: 4 -12p. m. Monday-Friday___. 
= 
;~ 
Counseline ~ 239-7793 ~ t 
~ 
;... 
nu. .a:
Ill!..! 
Ill
1 ftl_u, llodUIIII
, 5.
""" of Ia\t.GJ

• ""'-1 lat'-7
•7 .,...........u ... Tllaulllt•-'•1'­~ -~... wttlt ~t""'tl" ~lttcl•
• -I""' wttll Allier
lw.rot..U.. .Jeal-7 aad loW to DHI llttb Jt 

10 -to lay -..• ~ 11 .__.. 0,.. to Othfta 11 Datlal AUla · Ill 20 ,_lo -lU,_ 21 llall ---lllJ 8. 
' ~ 
JO -l•ty -,_elb1e 11a,. to Cope llith It 32 -to DM1 witb ~llaeee
, 
-to ...,.la rwn,. 
Iaenutac Self-...... 3S lulltlilll-Self-let-aad Coefldenc•
, 
leluatloe bftcboa •

,. 
Coplal "'th Stn.. F-1• Sex llole--Oialleea aad Stre•••• "41 llale Sea lole--CIIaapo aad Stt·eaMa
.. 
I.eamilll to Accept Yovnolf 

, -t1e
61 Tlwrapy aad lloor to u.. It 70 lllfatuulon or IA>Ye? u -to Cope witlt a trolton lelatlOft!llip
.. 
Death -Drlnl .es Uadentandlnl Grtef 90 Jlolplnc a Frl­1"41 E&rlp Slpo of Ul ·alcohol Prol>l­161 leo_.ll>le Dochlono about Drinklnc "412 Self Aliaertl,._u 412 ~1•• of Contract ..,UIIlnc 431 llbat 1a Depnoo1011 432 -to Deal with j)epreoolon 4)) Depr'eeaton 11 a Llfeatrl• 471 leca.1ftc lftGopon1•~• fr.. Parente 079 DuU.ftl vLtb Alcv~t i.e Parenta 491 S..lcldal Crhla 092 llecosnhlnl Suicidal Pountlalo ln Othero 493 llelpint s-ne in a Suicidal Crl1h 


Monday, November 5, 1984 -page 15 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 


Y65, IT'S MOI?NI/oiJ IN flO.IALP R&MAN5 AMER­ICA. 771& AL.7'fRJJAT!VE? lET'5 TAKE A /LXJI<. IT's 
A10RN!N6 IN WALleR 
MONC¥lt..e'S AMmCA / 
,r HOIII<!
r---n•·· __,... HONK! 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 


54 City in 44 Skin
The Daily Crosswrord 
510
46 Preoccupy 56 Camelot48 Jackson or ladyOwens
ACROSS 32 Flowering 55 Chicken 9 Stadium 57 Adjutant tree and lamb cheers 49 Dark 58 Altitudi· 
60 Pivot 51 Pacific nous 1 Hook end 33 Twirl 61 Lapdog 10 Filter island 59 Snick's 5 Mystery 34 Rescue 63 Poses 11 Climbing group partner
award maneuver 64 Biting wit bird 52 Council 62 Cereal 
10 Attack  letters  65 Resting  12 Astound  
a fly  37 Med. sch.  66 Number  13 Precept  
14 Scent  subj.  suffixes  18 Acting  
15 Battle site  38 Gladness  67 "-which  parts  
16 Scholarly  40 Migrant  will live ... "  24 Indian  
work  worker  68 Printer's  tribe  
17 Cat of old  41 Brooks or  term  25 Fasten  
19 Horse  Torme  26 Muslim  
20 Statement  42 "Of -I  DOWN  leader  
of belief  Sing"  1 Anjou  27 Cloud  
21 Pindar  43 Sum part  relative  number  
works  45 Morebase  2 Heb. month  28 Bass  
22 Carpentry  47 Filled up,  3 Judicial  29 Tyke  
tool  as eyes  attire  31 Sea robber  
23 Coat  4 Born and­ 33 Understand  
feature  48 Mammoth  5 Devour  35 Fir  
25 Lab equip·  50 Organic  6 Sag  36 Mr. Foxx  
ment: var.  compound  7 Stone  39 Beef animal  
26 Foot region  53 Adam's  nodule  40 Harem room  
30 State a  grandson  8 Eland  42 -for the  
belief  54 Distant  for one  show  

The rip-roaring comedy ~ lhdr "'ill knor.k vou out ol your ~l! 
Coming to Notre Dame Nov. 10, 8 p.m. Washington Hall TICKETS available at SAB Record Store $5.00 
Touring Company 
city grain 
Friday's Solution 

© 1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
Campus 
•12:
15 -1:15 p.m. -Workshop, "Methodological Aspects of the Dependency Theory Debate," Pro­fessors David Ruccio & tarry Simon , NO, Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Economics Depart­mem. 

•4 
-6 p.m. -Lecture, "Beyond the Positivity ofthe Social: Discourse and Antagonisms," Ernesto Laclau, U. of Essex, Room 131 Decio Hall, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 

•4 
p.m.-Lecture, Thomas Labrecque, President & Chief Operating Officer, Chase Manhattan Corp., The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., Hayes Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by Finance Club. 

•6 
p.m.-Student Senate Meeting, Senior Bar. 

•7 
p.m.-Monday Night FUm Series I, "Johnny Guitar," Annenberg Auditorium. 

•7, 
9 & 11 -FUm, "Shampoo," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by India Association. 

•8 
p.m. -General Meeting & Discussion, "Famine in Africa," Fr. jim Rahilly, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition, All Welcome. ··8 p.m. -Lecture, "Karl Krolow's 'SOMEONE' a Love Poem?" Prof. Vera Profit, NO, Memorial li­brary Faculty Lounge. 

•9 
p.m.-Monday Night FUm Series U, "East of Eden" With James Dean, Annenberg Auditorium. 


TV Tonight . 
6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
9:00p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
11:00 p.m. 
11:30 p.m. 


16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
16  M•A•s•H  
22  Dukes of Hazzard  
16  Barney Miller 2  
16  TV Bloopers & Practical Jokes  
22  Scarecrow & Mrs. King  
28  Call to Glory  
34  Wonderworks  
16  Movie  
22  Kate & Allie  
28  Football  
34  Heritage  
22  Cagney & Lacey  
34  The Case of Dashiell Hammett  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch is  
34  Movie · My Man Godrey  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Simon & Simon/McMillan  
28  ABC News Nightline  


j j 
• 
-

---~----~-----. ­

Monday, November 5, 1984-page 16
SRorts 
Carney's last-minute field goal gives Irish victory 
Navy narrowly m.isses major upset of ND as it falls, 18-17 
By LARRY BURKE shotgun snap from center, and Sports Writer threw to wide-open quarterback Bill Byrne for the touchdown. 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -Maybe But the Irish managed to erase the Notre Dame figured it was time t~ deficit with some fourth-quarter show the Meadowlands fans a little heroics. excitement. After all, the Irish had "This comeback will be remem­coasted through four previous bered," said tailback Allen Pinkett, Giants Stadium encounters, outscor­who finished with 165 yards on 3 7 ing their opponents, 126-10, before carries, becoming Notre Dame's all­Saturday's heart-stopping 18-17 win time leader in 100-yard games with over Navy. 14 and second-leading rusher, 
The portion of the 61,795 fans moving past Jerome Heavens. "I that stuck it out to the end were don't think the opponent is impor­treated to an impressive come-from­tant. lbe thing is, we came back to behind performance, as Notre win when no one thought we had a Dame's offense came alive in the chance." final four minutes to score 11 points, A Notre Dame victory seemed out wiping out a I0-point Navy lead, to of the question after Navy's Todd pull out the victory onjohn Carney's Solomon hit a 32-yard field goal to 44-yard field goal with 14 seconds put the Midshipmen up, 17-7, with remaining. 4:02 left to play. The score was set 
Before the late comeback, though, up when Navy's ~ric Fudge picked it appeared that the Middies were off a Steve Beuerlein pass at the Irish well on their way to beating the Irish 33-yard line and returned it to the for the first time since 1963. 21. The interception was Beuer­
Following a first-quarter Irish lein's fourth of the game and Notre 
touchdown, the Midshipmen began Dame's sixth turnover. to gain the momentum. Navy tied The Irish defense held, however, the contest with 10:23 left in the and forced Navy to kick the field playing for the field goal. If I had more quarterback led the Irish on an open in the end zone for a two-point first half on a six-yard touchdown goal. When Notre Dame was Byrne at the end I might have taken a eight-play, 83-yard touchdown conversion. run by fullback John Berner. The whistled for offsides on the attempt, chance or two." march that required just 1:45. The Irish then tried a high-lob score was set up by a fumble by Irish Navy could have had a first down at Tranquill's move looked good at Beuerlein completed five straight kickoff, but didn't fool the sure­tailback Lester Flemons. Cornerback the Irish 10-yard line. But with the time, especially because Notre passes on the drive, three to fresh­handed Midshipmen. It was Mike Metzger recovered on ._t!le Byrne sidelined by a third-quarter Dame had not scored since Pinkett's man split end Tim Brown. Pinkett therefore up to the defense to stop Notre Dame 30 and Berner bulled ankle injury, Head Coach Gary Tran­one-yard touchdown plunge six took the ball over from the one-yard Navy one more time, and it did ex­over the left side five plays later. quill elected to keep the three minutes into the game. The Irish of­line for his second touchdown ofthe actly that, holding the Midshipmen 
The Middies took a I4-7lead early points on the scoreboard and have fense had sputtered from that point, game. to seven yards in three plays to force in the third quarter with a trick play the penalty assessed on the kickoff. with Beuerlein completing just a punt. that caught the Irish flat-footed. On "I thought 17 points looked pretty seven of 19 passes. That brought the Irish to within Navy punter Mark Colby got the 
third-down-and-goal from the two­good," said Tranquill ofhis decision. But Beuerlein and Company sud­four points with 2:17 to play, and kick off, but linebacker Robert Banks yard line, resenre quarterback Jim "I thought about it for a minute, but denly started to click after Beuerlein quickly made it 17-15 
see MIDDIES, page 14

Lauletta lined up at tailback, took a we were playinggood defense. I was Solomon's field goal. The sopho-when he tound flanker Joe Howard 
Morrissey, Howard win first-round games 
ByBRIAN McCARTIIY however, as, with time running out Sports Writer in the first half, Dillon quarterback Coughlan cranked up and hit Steve 
The first round of interhall foot­Nasca down the left sideline for a 44­ball playoffs generated plenty of yard completion to the Morrissey excitement yesterday afternoon as 21. Two ptays tater, Coughlan rolled Morrissey topped Dillon, l 0-3, and right and again connected with Howard shut out Zahm, 7-0. Nasca at the five. 
The Morrissey-Dillon game was Only 10 seconds remained when especially dramatic as the Big Red Coughlan, under a heavy rush, was eliminated from the playoffs in tossed the ball just out of the reach an overtime period. In overtime, of a wide-open teammate in the end each team gets four downs to score zone. So, with three seconds left in from the 10-yard line. However, the half, Dillon's Dan Thompson tied Morrissey needed only two downs the game with an 18-yard field goal. as running back Dwayne Hicks Heading into half-time, Dillon ap­scored from eight yards out on a peared to have momentum because reverse. of the late field goal, bm neither
·j~ 
Dillon still had its turn, but on team could muster any offense as the
~ 
second down, the snap was fumbled third quarter passed without a single
~f and Morrissey defensive tackle Eric first down for either offense.
;\ 
!·i Kowalski recovered, ending the In the middle of the fourth quar­\-,' game. The jubilant Morrissey ter, a short punt gave Dillon the ball sideline rushed on to the field, while at the Morrissey 41-yard line. On 'f\,. Dillon saw its chance for a fourth­first down, Coughlan ran for I 5 \-: straight crown slip away. yards to the Morrissey 25. However, Morrissey threatened early in the the Morri~sey defense, led by middle 
') \~ Hockey team sweeps initial series 
i game when it reached the Dillon 24-linebacker Paul Hunckler, stiffened yard line following a 16-yard run by and Thompson lined up for a 35·
\I 
By ED DOMANSKY Smith. "But the most important games. Nineteen went against the Hicks. On the very next play, yard field goal that would have put 
I 
Sports Writer thing of the whole weekend was the Irish on Friday and another 12 were though, Dillon's Brendan Coughlan Dillon on top by three. Again,
•',.
..'., response from the student body. I called against them on Saturday. grabbed a Morrissey fumble to halt though, Dillon failed to take the lead 
\ i The return of varsity hockey was can't say enough how much it meant The Notre Dame powerplay con­the drive. as the kick sailed wide to the left. marked by resounding success both to have such great support." verted two of its four chances on Dillon failed to get a first down Dillon had a final chance when on and offthe ice. Co-captains Brent Chapman and Friday and made good on four ofsix and a poor punt gave Morrissey the Thompson picked off a Morrissey
~ 
r 
,. ·' On the ice, the Irish convincingly Bob Thebeau led the Irish attack. opportunities in the series finale. In ball on the Dillon 45. Three plays aerial and returnedjt across midfield 'rr swept their series from the Nittany Chapman scored the three-goal hat the two games, Penn State took ad­later, Morrissey quarterback Geoff to the Morrissey 41. However, an of­~{ lions of Penn State by scores of 8-2 trick on Friday, then on Saturday, vantage of the extra man just two of Henry fired a strike to Dan Falter at fensive pass interference call, fol­
~, ... 
and 10-3. Off the ice, two large, en­Thebeau duplicated the feat. 1 0 times, and three of 10 times, the 15-yard line. The Dillon defense lowed by ah,, thusiastic crowds welcomed hockey The action both nights was fast­respectively. In fact, 11 ofSaturday's regrouped, though, and, on fourth blocking-below-the-waist penalty, 
~ J
., back with loud and continuous sup­paced and hard-hitting right from 13 goals came with men in the down, Morrissey's Ted Gradel came thwarted the last-second drive and 
I. port. the opening faceoff. Referees Gene penalty box. on and booted a 27-yard field goal to set the stage for Morrissey's
(l 
" "It was great to get a sweep," said Sydnor and Greg Cameron whistled give Morrissey a 3-0 lead. " Irish head coach Charles "lefty" a total of 54 penalties in the two see HOCKEY, page 11 The lead was short-lived, see PLAYOFFS, page 13 

The Observer/File Photo 
performance moved him Into second place on the Notre Dame all-time rushing list. For more on the game, see Larry Burke's story. 


The Obs<:rur!Jobanno Hacker 
started in the right way with a pair ofwins over the Lions. Ed Domansky has more on the series in his story below. 
~-· 
c, 
--------~ 

~ ·>-_~-"--~-~-"-'~ _: : 





