
Presidential Review -page 5 

VOL XVIII, NO. 132 the indepemklll ~tmknt new~paper ~lT\ ing notre dame and ~ailll mary·.., THURSDAY, APRIL 26, I 984 

·shakespeare marathon attempts to set record and raise needed funds 
ByPATSAIN Dame professor ofEnglish, specializ· . SeniorStaffReporter ing in Shakespeare. "The entire campus is responding 
Spring hath arriveth, and people's as a community," said Rathburn. thoughts turneth to Shakespeare. "Instead of just hearing about some­Well, at least for the next three days. thing, people are doing some­The words of the English bard are thing ... It's been years since I have being read non-stop for 100 hours seen response like this," he said. during a Shakespeare reading marat­The readers have come from both hon on the Fieldhouse mall. the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
The marathon is both an attempt communities, with members of the at the world record for Shakespeare administration, faculty, and staff par­reading, and to raise money for the ticipating in addition to students, family ofAccounting Professor Ken­said Rathburn. neth Milani, whose son, Adam, was Notre Dame Food Services injured while playing hockey last donated $200, and are supplying year. nighttime readers with coffee and 
Campus personalities have been food, and two South Bend com­participating regularly -Digger panies have donated a hot air bal­Phelps started the marathon at mid­loon and a tent. night on Tuesday, followed yester­All money raised during the day afternoon by such notables as marathon will be put in the Adam Emil T. Hofman, Bishop Crowley, Milani Fund, and will be used to help Gerry Faust, and Father Van the Milani family with medical ex­Wolvlear. Yesterday evening saw penses. the Esophagus Constrictors and the Some residence halls have Student Senate spouting donated money, said Rathburn, and Shakespeare. Dan Vogl, a Notre Dame professor of 
Milani's son was. critically injured art, has donated several paintings to Dece!llber 7 in a high school hockey be sold, with the profit going to the game at Culver Military Academy. Milani Fund. The marathon is also The accident occured when Milani raffling a bound volume of the com­went after a puck and was knocked plete works ofShakespeare, and sell­backwards onto a ledge by another ing t-shirts and buttons. The Tempest player. The impact crushed a ver­will be shown Monday, April 30 at 7 tebra in his neck, leaving him and 10 p.m. in the Engineering paralyzed from the neck down. Auditorium and admission will be 
The marathon is being organized 
See BARD, page 4 
and run by Paul Rathburn, a Notre 

Robert Kennedy's son, 
world's recordfor Shakespearean reading, bas bad its 

David, dead at age 28 
share of campus personalities participating, includ­ing Head Football Coach Gerry Faust, Dean ofFresh­Associated Press evidence of drugs would take "four man Year Emil T. Hofman, and the Bookstore to eight days, minimum," he said. Basketballfavorites Esophagus Constrictors. PALM BEACH, Fla. -David An-"The cause ofdeath is pending the 
I thony Kennedy, 28-year-old son of results of these further studies," the late Sen. Robert F. Kennedy, was Black said, adding that suicide was found dead in a hotel room yester­ruled out because of Kennedy's psy­

Columnist Kempton praises Smith, 
day in this oceanside resort where chological profile, and no evidence his family has wintered for 40 years. of heart attack or brain injury was Investigators seeking the cause of found.

criticizes Reagan and Hart in talk 
death said, "We're now looking for 
drugs." "Anything (else) is possible at this By MAURA MANDYCK his concern about Hart's campaign Kempton's column, that his should Young Kennedy had a history of point in time," he said, refusing to News Staff slogan of"New Ideas." be signed, not Max, but drug and alcohol problems, but the ,rule out even homicide because "we 
"It is at least rooted in the English "anticlimax." cause of his death might not be , always have it in the back of our 
Murray Kempton, columnist for language," he conceded, but "an Concerning Kempton's writing, known for several days. minds." Earlier, police had said there the Long Island newspaper idea can stand between us and true Lerner said "To read him is to be "We're not ruling out a natural was no sign offoul play. Newsday, began his lecture at the feeling." Kempton perceives Hart's stretched, ifnot to your best, at least death but we're now looking for Kennedy's body, on a stretcher Center for Continuing Education alteration of information concern­to something you shouldn't have to drugs," said Rick Black, chief inves-covered with a red blanket, was last night by denying that he is, as ing his past as not flaws ofcharacter be ashamed of." He described tigator for the Palm Beach County moved from the medical examiner's George Will described him, "the but defects of reason. Medical Examiner's office, after the office to a hearse shortly after 8 p.m., 
See LECTURE, page 4
best columnist the United States has Also present was Max Lerner, autopsy was completed. Tests of accompanied by his brother, joseph ever produced." He then praised chairman of the American studies tissue and body fluid to find II. Red Smith, the honoree of the department, who worked with lecture series sponsored by the Kempton on the New York Post. Ler­American Studies department and ner commented that perhaps Gary 

Hauerwas to accept post at Duke 
Coca Cola. Red Smith, said Hart's presence at Kempton's Kempton, was "about as awesome a lecture would have been beneficial. 
By PAUL McGINN who had shown him "an act of me to Duke," he added. 
presence as anyone that self-effacing "It is better to be lauded than SeniorStaffReporter hospitality I will always value." Dennis Campbell, dean at Duke's could ever be." roasted, but when the roasting is as "I will be taking a great part of divinity school, told The Observer,Red Smith developed "the rarest elegant as Murray Kempton has just Stanley Hauerwas, a nationally Notre Dame and Catholicism with "We're thrilled that Professorof all art forms in the stockrooms of committed, it is not to be missed prominent theologian, conftrmed 
Hauerwas is coming to Duke."
journalism ..." Kempton main­even ifyou are the victim." 
yesterday he will take a position at Plans for Hauerwas' new positiontained. "The ability to see through Lerner spoke of working with Duke University's divinity school as a tenured professor of theologicalanother's eyes. He had the unlucky Kempton as a "sweet and sour time Sept. I. ethics at Duke were made final April sort of talent that makes its posses­for me." The sweetness was the Hauerwas, a tenured professor in 18, said Campbell.
sor feel as if he has been cheated "comradeship ofnewspaper men" as Notre Dame's theology uepartment, "It's a very significant appoint­somewhere along the line." well as the "sense of joy that comes said, "It's with deep sadness in many ment for Duke. Without question, heKempton spoke about democratic in the writing itself." The sourness ways that I leave Notre Dame be­is a major figure in theological ethicspresidential hopeful Gary Hart. was from the "toughness ofcompeti­cause it has provided me with my in North America," Campbell said.
"Hart is to politics what a master of tion." Lerner described having his basic education both as a teacher Father Richard McBrien, theologybusiness administration is to the column published on the same page and as a theologian." department chairman at Notrebusiness world. He reduces the con­as Kempton's as "falling off a cliff Hauerwas, in his 14th year at Dame declined to comment about 
crete to the abstract." He expressed step by step." He felt, after reading Stanley Hauerwas
Notre Dame, thanked those persons Hauerwas' departure: · 
The Shakespearean reading marathon continued yesterday, beading toward. its goal ofApril 29. The marathon, which is intended both to raise funds for Adam Milani, the son of Professor Ken Milani who u•as injured in a hockey accident lastyear, and to set a 
The Observer Thursday, April 26, 1984 -page 2 

In Brief · 
"Hansel and Gretel," an opcra by Engdhnt llum­padinck, will ht.· staged hy the Saint Mary's music department at 8 tonight and again Saturday, April 28 in the Little Theatre. Humpcr­dinck and his librettist, Addhdd Wctte, first adapted the Grimms' fairy tak to lyric form in 1981 as a "singspid" for children. Humpcr­dinck expanded the work to an opera two years later. It is the first opt·ra produced at Saint Mary's in almmost a decade. Tickets for "llansc:l and Grt·td" arc S I for adults. Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and children under 14 will he admitted free. Tickets may he purchased at the door. -The Obsen1er 
"Human Rights Abuses: The Cause ofChile" will he the topic of Professor Alejandro Foxley's lecture this evening at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. The lecture will kick off a human rights awareness program of Amnesty International. Foxley is a professor of the Helen Kellogg Institute. -The Obsen1er 
The fourth annual Campus Scream, an unofficial An Tostal event, is schnluled to hegin tonight at midnight. Ll'adcrs of tht· People's An Tostal Committee, the organizers of the event, say they hope.· for a larger turnout than last year. "We arc running an apolitical event; however, we will he unable to control political cheers," says the chairman of PATC. -The Obsen1er 

Of Interest 
Nine prominent literary and critical 
theorists will meet at Notre Damt· today through Saturday, April 28 ti>r a conft-rcnn· titled "Criticism Without Boundaries: Directions and Cross Currt.·nts in PostmodtTn Critical Theory." According to Joseph A. Buttigit'g, associate professor and director of graduate studies in English and the confc.:rt·ncc organizer, "We want to ex­amine ways in which rect.·nt changes in literary theory have affected· developments in other academic disciplines. The participants, who come from a variety offields, will he uniquely suited for this task." ­
The Obsen•er 
The Shakespeare Reading Marathon 
continues today with Dean and Mrs. james Roemer at noon, Tequila White Lightning. with Steve Beuerlcin at 3: IS p.m. Anyone in­tt·rcsted in reading is invited to stop at the stage and read on a walk­on basis. -The Obsen'L>r 
"llunlan Righ.tsAbt.Jses: The Cause ofChile" will he the topic of Professor Alejandro Foxley's lecture this evening at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. The lecture will kick off a human rights awareness program of Amnesty International. Foxley is a professor ofthe Helen Kellogg Institute. -The Obseroer 
An Tostal coex tickets for today's picnic dinner at Saint Mary's are available for Notre Dame students today during lunch at the North and South dining halls. For Saint Mary's students, coex tickc.·ts for Saturday's Notre Dame picnic will be available tomorrow during dinner hours. -The Obsen•er 
T001orrow's alcohol policy demonstration will he the topk of"Campus Perspective" tonight at 9:30 on WSND 640 am with ti>rmc.-r Student Senator Dave McAvoy discussing plannc.·d events and his discussions with Dean of Students james Rot·mer. ListentTs will he ahie to call in during the half-hour show on dthcr 239-6400 or .2:W-74.2S. -The Observer 


Weather 
April showers today. hel'Oming innt.·asingly doudy this afternoon. Breezy and warrm:r with a high around HO. Partly doudy and very mild tonight. low around 60. lkc.:oming most­1)" doudy tomorrow with charK"t' of aftt'rnoon tlr.mdcrstorms. lligh around HO. 

The Observer 
The Observer ( t·~p, ~·>'> l··IIIOO I ;, puhll~hnJ Monda~ lhrtHIJ(h hida~ and on honw hu.rhall ~arunJa''· t:xn·pl dunn~ot c.·x;tm Jnd \'Jc. Jlton pt.·rwd!'t Tht' Observer i~ puhli~hc:d h~ rlu.· 'tudc.·nhol 1hc: 1 111\Tf,il\ ul Nnlrc.: D.ma· and Sa1111 M.&q ·, ( ollc:~c.: 'uh'c. npuun ... ma\ he purd1J.."tt.'d for J!c; pc:r ~t:ar (SIc; pt·r ..,cme:tCt·r J h~ ,., rum~ The.· ObseiTer, P () 1\nx. <). ~ulrc.· l>.tmc lndldll<l t6';'i() 
·rhe Observer i~ J nwrnhc:r 111 Thc.· A~~ sociatc.•d Prt·s!-1. All rquoUw.. ltun nght~ 
.trc: rc.·"··n·t..·d 
Today's i~sut." wa~ produn.·d hy: 
I Jt-si):ll f.tlitur...... .................. Susan ( l'llara nc...ig,l.·1.o;;sistallt ........... ..... Li~a \'boinKardi I,JW"t'ftt'rs ... .. .. .... . <·arol and Tnl './1•11111111. ..:r-.rc.·\'l' Foslt.'f \r•tn I di/ur..... ~tart.· Ramirc.·z c ofn l.ditur.. . .. ... John llc.·asly \purl.\ Cuj~J' l:'t/ilut·.. . .. Thl'ron Roberts t'teupoiutlaJ'tnil.. . .......... ,\farr Dolan \'/J n,~J' l.tlilor........ . ..... \ll'lind.t \loorc.· \.Ill fJar Ftlilor... . \IJ~il' O"Conndl .-ltl /)t•s(~ll ........ P.tul Slota 
PluJitJJ.fl"llfJht•r.. .J,t\'icr <>liv;t 



It's going to take cooperation to keep social life alive and well 
As alcohol policy protests and demonstrations go on, effects of the new policy continue to be debated. One 

Theresa Guarino 

thing is certain, though -weekend life on both campuses will be drastically altered. Yes, Saint Mary's 

Assistant News Editor 
students also will be "victims" of the new rules, al­though not to the extent of Notre Dame students. For years, Saint Mary's students have taken full ad-Inside Thursday vantage of Notre Dame's former, rather liberal alcohol iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii':::::::::: 
policy, while the drinking age on their own campus remained 21. Saint Mary's students, unlike their neigh­bors, arc used to alcohol rules and the "sneaking around" accompanying them. The fact remains that Saint Mary's underclassmen have made full use ofNotre Dame alcohol, and now the tap has run dry. 
But how will this new policy affect the relationship between the two schools? They do share much more than a Friday and Saturday night social life, of course. Nothing will alter the clubs, classes, and projects of the two schools. But the weekend social life could swing either way, depending on how students look at it. 

successful, others have been failures. 
The two Five Hall Dances easily come to mind. Both, in the Haggar College Center, were extremely well at­tended. In fact, more Notre Dame students attended than did Saint Mary's. Because of the success, more are planned for next year, according to Saint Mary's Student Body President Lee Ann Franks. The Keenan Revue party earlier this semester was also extremely success­ful. 
Other dry activities at Saint Mary's have not gone 
over so well. "We've had 
some attendance problems 

For the immediate future. in the past," said Franks, "but Notre Dame student govern­all along we've had to plan ment would like Saint Mary's with no alcohol. Now Notre student support at tomor­Dame too will have to plan row's rally outside alternate activities." LaFortune. This would be The alcohol policy could appropriate, since Saint hurt both schools much Mary's students will also more than it will hdp. have their social life af-Whatever the outcome, stu­fected. dents arc going to have to 
On a broader level, such adapt. as protests of violations of Saint Mary's and Notre student rights, a number of Dame students should use restrictions backing this up next year, when social ac­come to mind. Few have tivities may seem scarce, to much to do with Saint open lines of communica­Mary's student life, tion. Cooperation is needed 

however. 
But if Saint Mary's stu­dents think the Notre Dame administration acted un­fairly, and their presence tomorrow would help, then support is a good idea. But Saint Mary's women should not plan on attending the demonstration just because it should be a "good time." Support the protest because you believe it to be a good cause. 
Cooperation on this immediate level will last until the end of this year. But what about next year? Changes in social life at both schools will have to occur ifthere is still to he a social life. The way things stand now, going to a Notre Dame dorm to watch TV for a night will be illegal if there are too many people present. Hopefully, student protests will result in some changes in policy details, but the main points unfortunately will stay. 
This is where the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's weekend relationship can go either way. Will students make the effort to get to each other's campuses? 
Planning activities without alcohol is an area where Saint Mary's has had practice. Some events have been 
to plan weekend events 

more than ever. Students should work together to give each other more reasons to cross U.S. 31. 
Individual halls and classes could sponsor more joint activities. Maybe the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women could interact more closely. Stories of anomosities between the two are very much exag­gerated. 
The rally tomorrow should be well attended. Let's hope students will be able to get some of the more restrictive details of the policy changed. 
Let's also hope students will work together next year to make the social life on both campuses a success ­even though it may be dry. 
The views expressed in th~ Inside column arc the views ofthe author, and do not neces­sarily n:flect the views of the editorial board 
or.staff. 



An Tostal 
Today sEvents 

SMC PICNIC 

Canoe Races, Picnic Games, Tricycle Race ... 
DORM FEUD 

Between Dorms on N D including the MOB -Angela 8:00pm 
MR. Campus 
at Angela B:OOpjm 


BEER GARDEN 

3 Buds for $1 and hear the Kinetics play Must be 21. Senior Bar 
LOOKING FOR BIG BROTHER Clue no. 3 

People come here to go to college They quickly experience the ministry of knowledge It's spread low and wide all around But in one place it towers above the ground. 
ONLY if you have found Big Brother, call 1739 and ask for Paul or Mark 
............................-.......... ___ .. ___ 
·-·· .. -­

The Observer Thursday, April26, 1984-page 3 

Fighting continues 
Two men walk past a large cutoutposterofIraq's President Saddamm Hussein, situated and overlook-
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 

&g); 

We are pleased to announce the following 1984 graduates of the University of Notre 
Dame have recently become associated with our firm: 
ATLANTA OFFICE Daniel K. Nelson, BBA 
William J. Dawahare, BBA Audit Audit Richard E. Paxton, BBA John t Gunning, BBA Audit Audit Russell M. Rempala, MBA 
Consulting BALTIMORE OFFICE Joseph S. Roveda, BS John J. Ruhlmann, BBA Consulting Audit Mary Kay Stangle, BBA 
Audit BOSTON OFFICE 
Joseph H. Stephan, BBA Daniel E. Fitzsimmons, BBA Audit Audit 
William G. Stotzer, BBA 
Audit CHICAGO OFFICE Brian T. Burt, BBA CHICAGO -WORLD Consulting HEADQUARTERS 
Mark E. Buschman, BBA Margaret E. Ford, BA 
Audit Technical Services 
Christine L. Callahan, BBA 
Audit CLEVELAND OFFICE 
David E. Campbell, BBA James H. Bares, BBA 
Audit Audit 
Patricia M. Cooney, MBA Ernest L. Vallorz, Jr., JD 
Consulting Tax 
Kathleen M. Coughlin, BBA 
Audit DALLAS OFFICE 
Stephen P. Colbourn, BBA John A. Butler, BBA 
Consulting Audit 
James M. Dee, BBA Anne M. Drollinger, BBA 
Audit Audit 
Rian M. Gorey, MBA 
DENVER OFFICE Consulting 
J. Michael Cornett, BBA Timothy H. Hart, BBA 
Tax
Audit 
James J. Herrmann, BBA 
DETROIT OFFICE Audit 
Joseph J. McCarthy, BBA Peter B. Holland, BBA 
Tax
Audit 
Sharon J. Terpin, BSMichael L. Howard, JD 
ConsultingTax 
John M. Kuhns, BS 
HARTFORD OFFICE Consulting 
Theodore J. Haussler, BA Robert F. lutz, BBA 
ConsultingAudit 
Frederick J. McCarthy, BA Lucy A. Mills, BBA 
ConsultingAudit 
James D. Stapleton, BBA Judith D. Murtagh, JD 
Audit 
Tax 
HONOLULU OFFICE Celeste V. Oda, BBA 
Audit 
INDIANAPOLIS OFFICE 
Kevin P. Killilea, BBA 
Audit 
KANSAS CITY OFFICE 
Jean A. Yankee, MBA 
Tax 
MILWAUKEE OFFICE 
Peter J. Kerwin, BBA 
Audit 
NEW JERSEY OFFICE 
Timothy J. Willis, BBA 
Audit 
NEW YORK OFFICE 
William J. Keneally, BBA 
Audit 
PHOENIX OFFICE 
Glen G. Gwarda, BBA 
Audit 
PITTSBURGH OFFICE 
Keith P. Creehan, BS 
Consulting 
Sally J. Esposito, BBA 
Tax 
Mary E. lang, BS 
Consulting 
ROCHESTER OFFICE 
Mary E. Stevens, BBA 
Audit 
ST. LOUIS OFFICE 
Mary C. McCown, BBA 
Audit 
Christopher J. Stephen, BS 
Consulting 
TAMPA OFFICE 
Laura M. Cuffe, MBA 
Consulting 
WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE Kevin G. McCarthy, BBA 
Audit 

ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co. 
33 WEST MONROE STREET, CHICAGO, IL 60603 (312) 58Q-0033 




American Red Cross active at Notre Dame 
By ANNE GALLAGHER 
News Staff 
When you hear the words "American Red Cross," do you think of disaster relief, life saving, or the little white card that has been stuck in your wallet for six years? 
Most are familiar with a few ofthe volunteer services that are provided by this national organization, but few know how active the American Red Cross is at Notre Dame. 
The Red Cross has always provided first aid at major athletic events through the St. Joseph County Chapter. 
Four years ago, the chapter ap­proached freshmen Dan Edmun­dowicz and Chris Weyers, asking them to become student coor­dinators and to get more ND/SMC students involved. 
Edmundowicz, who has been actively involved in the ARC for more than six years, is an emergency medical technician, and is still the student coordinator. He has also become a member of the Board of the County Chapter. Assistant Coor­dinator Chris McFarland, as well as juniors Steve Liese and Glenn Stan­dish, also have helped maintain stu­dent involvement. 
In 1982, Edmundowicz and fellow volunteers successfully peti­tioned the county chapter to form a branch chapter on the Notre Dame campus. According to Peter Womer, staff advisor for the branch, and vice chairman of the county's First Aid Station Program, the branch has proven to be a huge success and has "paid offin great dividends." 
The branch chapter now has 20 active members, including seven EMT's, and several qualified in ad­vanced and standard first aid who have volunteered many hours in training and serving the American Red Cross is its non-varsity athletic role. In conjunction with the NVA office, the Red Cross provides first aid teams at almost all men's and women's club sports. In addition, the branch also serves non-athletic events, such as the Collegiate Jazz Festival, Mardi Gras, and Junior Parents Weekend, as well as campus­wide events like Bookstore Basket­ball. 
Another program started by the branch in September 1983 was the QRS Program. The Quick Response Squad, designed by students and Notre Dame Security, is manned by volunteers from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and is on call every day from 5 to 11 p.m. The QRS team primarily transports injured stu­dents to the hospital, thus alleviating some of the Security Department's workload. 

QRS utilizes a van donated by the University's athletic department. The QRS Program is not an am­bulance service, yet the team's proximity allows its volunteers to stabilize a patient well before an am­bulance arrives. 
Womer said, "QRS can mean the difference between life and death." Joanne Beissel, a dispatcher for Notre Dame Security where QRS is based, recalled one incident in which a Flanner student had asevere reaction to a food dye found in oranges, and began to have difficulty in breathing. Fortunately, Ed­munowicz, who is a Flanner resi­dent, was on duty at the time and was able to administer oxygen and stabilize the student. 
Beissel added, "People don't realize the types of problems that arise, and working together, the Red Cross and Securty provide a much more efficient service to the com­munity." 
The branch also provides several educational courses. Water Safety is taught through the Physical Educa­tion department at the Rockne Memorial, as well as nightly CPR and standard first aid courses taught by students from the branch. The branch also has a service for veterans, and can provide almost any service the county chapter can provide. 
Edmundowicz feels it is important 
that other students realize Notre 
Dame "does have a group of stu­
dents who are interested in provid­
ing these services, and these 
services are priceless." He also em­
phasized that the Red Cross is always 
looking for volunteers. The branch 
provides the training, so all that is 
needed is an interest in helping 
others. According to Womer, "The 
program's future depends on the 
students and maintaining an interest 
to get involved." 

The Observer Thursday, April26,J984-page 4 

Associated Press Abram Chayes, legal adviser 10 the Both Nicaragua and the United State Department during the Ken· States are arguing their cases in the 
TilE IIAGliE, Netherlands -A nedy administration, said "there can preliminary hearings, although the t<mner U.S. State lkpartmenl legal hl· no doubt" that the United States United States has rejected the adviser told the World Court yester· has violated international law by court's jurisdiction over the case. day that llnitt·d States is violating the supporting military activity against d1artns of the llniled Nations and the Sandinista government. The court yesterday granted a tht· Organization of American States one-day recess requested by thc U.S. hy supporting rehds fighting the Chaycs spoke on behalf of delegation to allow it to "prepare its Nicaraguan govt·rnment. Nkaragua during the first day of case," said a court source who ---------------prdiminary hearings on a complaint refuscd to he identified, in line with 
Nkaragua t1kd against the United court procedure. The United States States. lie said the ll. N. Chartcr con­will present its argumcnts Friday,
Lecture 

tains an "unqualit1cd prohibition said Alan Romht·rg, a State Depart­continuedfrom page I against tht· threat or use of force in ment spokesman in Washington. .lll" form."
Kt·mpton's campaign pkct·s as good ' 
Presidential elections­bid defeated in Brazil 
Associated Press point police reportedly tired shots 
into the air. No injuries werc 
BRASII.IA, Brazil -The military­reportl·d. 
backed government party early this The government's broadcast 
morning defeated an opposition­regulatory agency allowed brief 
sponsored hill to reinstate direct broadcasts by television and radio 
presidential elections this year in from the congressional chamber, 
Latin America's largest coumry. which had bt·en prohibited under 
With a majority of the votes the govermcnt's limited state of 
counted, the constitutional amend­emergency. The regulatory agency 
ment -which had broad public later said all transmissions must go 
support -stood no chance of through federal censors. 
passage. A two-thirds majority, 3.20 The government had put a virtual 
votes, was needed. With 439 of the blackout on all direct news on 
479 votes count<:d, there were 276 television or radio about the 
votcs in favor, I 06 absent, <;4 who restrictive measures and the vote, 
voted against and three abstentions. saying all material must he vicwcd 
The vote came after a day-long first by censors. 
debate yesterday. Motorists had honked automobile 
Thc government ofPresidentjoao horns as they passed the Congress 
Figueiredo, the fifth general to lead building, in support ofthe hill. Other 
this nation of 131 million people protests were staged in citics across 
since a 1964 right-wing coup, plans Brazil, where millions have rallied in 
to install a new president through an favor of direct elections in recent 
electoral-college vote next Jan. 1<;. wceks, after 20 years of military 
Thc electoral body is weighted in regimes. 
Javor of the government's Social 
Outside the modernisti~twin­Democratic Party. towered Congress build· g in The constitutional amendment Brasilia, about I,";00 people c anted debated yesterday, proposed by the and waved banners in illegal center-left political opposition, demonstrations, calling for · irect called instead for direct presidential elections now." • elections Nov. 15, elections that would probably favor the opposi­tion Party of the Brazilian 
Bard
Democratic Movement. 

Under the existing plan, the first continuedfrom page I direct presidential election would be in 1990 -30 years after II. All of the admission funds col­Brazilians last voted for a president. lected will be donated directly to But Figueiredo recently introduced the Milani Fund. a compromise proposal that would Featured speakers scheduled to set dircct clections for 1988. read include Dean Roemer at noon 
Figueiredo last week declared a today, the Glee Club at 8 tonight, 
limited state of emergency in the and the cast of Camelot at noon 
Brasilia Federal District, saying he Saturday. A Spanish Hamlet will he 
wanted to prevent "caravans of read at 12:30 p.m. tomorrow. 
demonstrators" from "coercing" This Shakespeare reading marat· 
Congress. Public gatherings were hon is the second Rathburn has or· 
banned and censorship imposed on ganized at Notre Dame. The first 
political news reports by broadcast took place in 1972, and raised 
media, and classes at two univer­S3,000 for fi_i;;ter Marila's Primary 
sities were suspended. Day Care Centl:r in South Bend. 
On Tuesday, ";OO students oc­To quote Sltakespcare, sotid Rath­cupied the main lobby of Congress burn, "The 4tality of mere'')' is not for several hours. About 7"; federal strained; it firik-th as the gt'fltk rain police troopers surrounded the from Heaven ... It blesseth he who building, the students left, and at one gives and him-who receives."'
-


--gQowe~g fp~ aQQ occagLottg'' 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway· 
232-33541 

~---~---------------~--------, 
Enjoy Barclay's
CLIP CLIP
COUPON FILET MIGNON COUPON 
&SAVE '3 

(REG. 8.95-W/TH COUPON 5.95) &SAVE '3 OR 
STUFFED FILET MIGNON 
WRAPPED IN BACON AND TOPPED WITH SAmED MUSHROOMS 
(REG. 9.95-WITH COUPON 6.95) 
Each entree includes a bot­tomless tureen of soup, baked bread and your choice of baked potato, home fries or rice mason. 
OUR REG.ULAR MENU IS ALSO~ VAILABLE 
Limit 2 dinners per coupon 
May nor be used wtlti other coupons or advar(ised specials. 

52885 U.S. 31 North, Sou1h Bend 
-·L-.~~-~~,..-.::-:-~-:--.--..~~__,...-=,... ..~,..-..p~...l 
,,hort ,,Wries f(>Cusing on a single <ktail to illuminate the whole per· son. 
"You rardy find him (Kempton) talking about thl· issues," Lerner said. "Thl· bsues change hut it is thl· rota! man who has 10 make the tkd· sions." 
Journalism of this kind. much maligned as it has been. can establish a kind of linkage, a liaison, bl·twet·n thl· authl·ntit·ally human and the realm of ideas." Lerner continucd. "I miss him." he admitled. 
Kl·mpton responded to Lerner's remarb h~· insisting that. "four-fifths ofwhar I said is probably nonsense." lie claims that, "the man you are writing about will eventually givt· himself away" and that any one ullumnist's opinion is morl· or k-ss irrelevant. l.ernn addcd jokingly, "But they give themselves away aftn rhcy're dcctnl." 
Kl·mpton spoke of the difference ht·twlTII llart and Reagan. "(iary llart lon·s show business. Ronald 
Rl·agan  is show  business.  Lurking  
around  in  his  mind  arc  Ic;o.ooo  
movil'  s<:ripts."  Ronald  Retgan's  

"saving grace:· Kempton asserts, "is knowing in his heart of hearts that it's not his fault." 
The kcturt· condudnl with a queMion and answer session with both Kt·mpton and Lerner respond­ing. 
Correction 
Because of an editing error. the time for a kcturc by Robert Reilly, special assistant to President Reagan, was listed incorrectly in yes· terday's Obsen•er. Thc lecture was 
lastweck,nottodayasTheObsen,er 

Kitchen StaffApplications for Senior Bar can be picked up Mon., Tues., Wed. (April30-May 2) in the Student Activities Office of LaFortune Applications due Thurs., May 3 by Spm 

SPECIALS! 
For ALL oi \'our Printing NePd~ 
50 RESUMES $15.00 
Thi' ilflll' imlwiP' t\pt''l'tl111g ldouhlt• 'll.ltl'ri I\'IH'Wril­11'111, il ~1ngll' -p.l< t' I\ ill'\\ nttt•n . .1dd 'i> \.110 . .liHII'rlllling 011 \ollr 'l'll'Liion ol p.lJlPI in lllll ''Ill k. 
25°/o OFF WEDDING INVITATIONS 
1/3 OFF PRINTING! 
L1kt• 1/{ oil our pri< l' 11-t. (lilt•r (;ood <1111\· o11 I~ I.!< k i11k. 
.111d HY2 X 11 ,mel ll1! X 1-l 'lit''' Th1' oll<·r '' l1mitt•rl!! 
ARTCRAFT PRINTERS, INC. 
Quick Print and Photocopy CentPr 213 South Main Strt·et (N('xt to H,ml<·t'~) South Bend, lndi,mcl 4bh0 1 
PHONE 219-234-3627 llttorl'l"" 

_~~~~r!~~·.. _-_----------------· · liJ!I'[{ii~~!'{f1:!1Ell~1[{f]j!fmj!fmj~~i!'ili!~i'i'&'I:i!i'I'&'I:i!~~~~~i'I'&'I:i!:m'i~·~·fl····~~~~·-· 

The1 Observer Thursday, April26, 1984-page 5 
Tri-Military Presidential Review honors outstanding ROTC cadets 
Don't Miss The ND Student Players' 
ame 


Thursday, Friday and Saturday THIS WEEKEND -April26, 27 and 28 In The Bendix Theater, Century Center BPM 
Tickets are still on sale at the Record Store, Century Center, and the O'Laughlin Box Office 
Buses will be provided to the Century Center for Fridays performance!! Sign up at the S. u..CRecord Store. Tickets are going fast -Get 'em now!! 
,--------------------------------1 
I

SEND MOM ASMILE! I 
I 
SPECIAL! Reg. !]5.00 
NOW$12.50 
through April 30, 1984 
I I I I 

A helium mylar gift balloon shipped anywhere in the contin­
I 

I ental U.S. (Colors and shapes may vary.) Price includes bal­
I loon, gift card and box, shipping and handling charges. I 
SAYES YOU TIME AND MONEY AND SENDS A LOVELY
I 

MESSAGE. Fill out the information below and return to us.
I I 
SEND TO:
I I 

Nome ------------------------­
I 

Address------------------Apt.:: __
I 

City·______ 5tote _____ lip _____
I I 

CARD TO READ FROM:--------------­
I I 

YOUR 51GNATURE------------:-----­I 
Address-----------------Apt. ::
I I 

City•---------5tote -----Zip --------,
I I CHARGE TO: I 

EXP. DATE_____
VI5A =----------­
I EXP. DATE_____
I MC =----------­
1 or enclose check or money order for '12.50 I • • ADD 634 soles lox if balloon shipped to INDIANA RESIDENT • • I 
Mother's Day orders accepted through April 30.
I I SEND ORDER COUPON TO: DMI/BALLOONS 
I 206 Nickel Plote Ave. 
I Volporoiso, IN 46383 I 
OR CALL: (219) 464-9956
I 

~-----------------------------­
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, above, con­1gratulates Midshipman Jc Kirk A. Shawhan upon his receiving the Strake Foundation A ward. At right, the color guard, comprised of members from Navy, Army, and Air Force ROTC Units detached 
to Notre Dame executes a right flanking movement during yester­t)ay's Presidential Review. 
WILLPOWER! 
Apri124-29 South Quad Mall 

Shakespeare Marathon Reading--tOO hours! 
Donations for the Milani Family Benefit Accepted 
By ERIK HICKEY 
StaffReporter 
With this year's Reviewing Officer 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh -looking on, the Navy, Army, and Air Force ROTC Units were presented yesterday in the annual Tri-Military Presidential Review. 
Also on the reviewing stand were the Commanding Officers of the ROTC Units; Captain John D. Rohrbough, USN; Lieutenant USAF. Six seniors from "the three units who were to receive awards were also on the reviewing stand. 
The following awards were presented to the six seniors: 
The Rer,erend]ohnj. Cm,anaugh, C.S.C., Award: cMAJ Joseph F. Trus­tey 
The Patrick Dixon Award: cCPT Edward P. Grogran 
The Strake Foundation Award: 
MIDN lc Kirk A. Shawhan 
The Reverend]. Hugh O'Donnell Award: MIDN lc Peter Quast 
The Notre DameAirForce Award: 
cLtCol Kerry M. Zalud 
The Noel A. Dube Memorial Award: cMAJ Kevin M. Benner Immediately following the Father Hesburgh 

delivered a short address, encourag­ing the cadets, and voicing his thoughts on the need for good leaders in our armed services. This was followed by the passing in review of the approximately 700 cadets and midshipmen, who com­promise nearly 10 percent ofthe un­dergraduate student body. 
Music was provided by the 74th 
U.S. Army Band from Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
Included in the review was a flyover by two A-1 0 Thunderbolt II Aircraft from the 434 Tactical Fighter Wing of Grissom Air Force Base, Ind. 
The ObserverI Javier Oliva 

The Observer Thursday, April 26, 1984 -p~ 6 

Af' Phoco 

Democratic Presidential hopeful Gary Hart works out on an exer­
cise machine before embarking on a full day ofcampaigning last Tuesday in Cleveland and Youngstown. 
UAW official blasts policy 
Hart looks to Utah for boost 
A.'isociated Press 
(iary llart looked yesterday to his Utah m:i~hbors for another hoost in his t·omt·hack drive in the lkmm:ratic presidential ran:, while front-runner Walter F. Mondale askl·d supporters to shut down union-backt·d delt-~ate committees that havt· raised tens of thousands of dollar~ in indt·pendt·nt contribu­tions. 
But Momlalt· spurned the <:olorado st·nator's recommenda­tion to "Givt· the money hack, Wal­
ll:r. That's tht· way to solve tht· prohlt-m." 
The Rev. )t•s..o;e Jackson, mt·anwhilt-, blasted Mondak and llart for "perpetrating a scam on the Amt·rican people" by proposin~ in­creased spt·nding hoth for dt:ft:nse and sodal programs. 
jackson leveled his char~e as he and his rivals awaited the results of Utah's Democratic party caucuses at long distance. 
As llart looked to lltah to give credence to his daim 10 tht· West, tht· slate's Democratic chairman, Patrick Shea, joined Gov. Scott Math­t·son yt·sterday in urging the stare to 
take an uncommitted delegation to · the national convention. 
Twenty-two delegates were at stake in the caucuses yesterday night. 
II art, trying to fashion a comehack in the second half of the campaign season, won the Vermont caucuses handily on Tuesday, although he still trails Mondale, I, 12H.H delegates to 626.Jackson has 167.2, of the 1,967 needed to win the nomination. 
The next tests after Utah arc primaries on Tuesday in Washing­lOll, D.C., and Tenncs..o;ee, followed by party caucuses on Saturday in Texas. 
Jackson, campaigning in Texas, said hoth his rivals have called for better education and an increased commitment to social programs, as well as more spending on defense. 
"They cannot have it both ways," he said. "To go in the same direction as the warmongering Reagan ad­ministration, only a bit slower, is not offering an alternative." 
"It is perpetuating a scam on the American public." 
IIart has filed a complaint with the federal Election Commission charg­ing the Mondalt: campaign hroke the law and was using the delegate com-

Reagan commences first state visit to Red China since Nixon summit 
A.'isoclated Pres!! 
PEKING Prcsidcm Reagan, who spent a generation as one ofthe l lnitt·d States' harshest critics of China, arrived in Peking yesterday afternoon. 
Rt·a~an and his wife, Nancy, stt·pped off Air fon:e One at I:0.3 
a.m. EST into a chilly, cloudy drizzle to begin the first presidential visit to the Communist Peoph:s Republic of China sinn· li.S.-Chinese relations were normalized in 1979. 
Ahoard Air fort.'t: One on the live­
hour fli~ht from Guam, tht· prcsi­
dt·nt was ~ivcn a final brkfing by 
St·cretary ofState Gt.·orge Shultz and 
National Security Advist·r Robert C 
Mcl'arlant·. 
Mrs. Reagan, t.·hatting with repor­
ters, said shl· was prt·parctl. "If I'm 
not set now, I'IInevt·r bt·," said said. 
Was the president rt·ady? 
"Oh yes, oh yes," sht· said. 

Whitt· !louse spokesman Larry 
Spt:akcs said the president's first mt't·ting with Chint·se l!l'ad of state l.i Xiannian was intended to "set the tone" of the visit. More substantive, lcnghthicr discussions will be held friday with Premier Zhao Ziyang. 
As he stepped from the plane, 
Reagan waved to reporters and a few 
Americans from the U.S. Embassy 
awaiting his arrival. 
The president wore a suit and Mrs. Reagan a two-piece blue and white spring out11t, both coatlcss despite the unseasonahly cold weather. 
li.S. Amhassador Arthur Hummel went up the steps to the plane to welcome the Reagans, who then alighted to bt: greeted by Foreign Ministt:r Wu Xucqian, Culture Min­ister Zhu Muzhi and the Chinese am­bassador to Washington, Zhang Wenjin. Twelve black limousines, led by the president's own armored vehicle, and followed by Chinese­
" made Red Flag limousines, waited to take the cntoura~e into the city. Hut when the Reagans boarded the moton:adc for the 30-minutc drive into downtown Peking, they got into one of tht· Chinese cars hearing an 

free... 
DOMINO'S PIZZA ... 
AND 2 FREE COKES 
* WITH OUR 3-0AY MOVIE PACKAGE 3-DftYr Af!lgYs~~LAe~~V~E~G~o· •52495 
TAPE RECORDER AND 3 MOVIES . ' .ONLy FUll DAYS At\11 WE'll GIVE YOU A COUPOM FOR A FREE DOMINO'S PIZZA & 2 COKESI 

VIDEO DISC PlAYER 1'1111 MOVIE/OVERNIGHT 
r­
(c ,;;;;J) 
RCA VIDEO CASSETTE PlAYI!R 
South Bend North 51400 U.S. 31 N. Clocktower Square 
277-8872 

ICAII.I CIISlTT( PUYO 
RENTAL SLIGHTLY 


HIGHER 
OVERNIGHT & 3 DAY RENTALS .,;,.... AVAILABLE PLUS f~ 'J//111" 100'a OF MOVIES -Q 
minces to circumvent spending limitations. 
Mondale said, however, that it was "entirely legal and proper" for the independent committees to take contributions from political action committees, even though his formal campaign committee docs not. 
At a news conference in Chat­tanooga, Tenn., he said he wanted the delegate committees "terminated, period, ended" be­cause the "clatter . . . undermined my capacity to make my case clearly on the issues that counted." 
There was no precise estimate of how much the PACs had con­tributed, although the committees have reported raising about $250,000 overall. 
In addition, FEC records indicate that some ofthe staffaides laid offby Mondale's campaign have gone to work for the independent commit-, 
tees, which have sprouted up in several key primary states and relied heavily on contributions from PACs established by labor unions. 
Mondale and his aides have in-· sisted that the money raised and spent by the committees not count toward the 1120.2 million limit the federal government has set for can­didates. 
American flag, leaving the American lead car as a decoy. 
There they were to receive a for­mal welcome, including a 21-gun salute at Tiananmen Square, the lar­gest public square in the world. 
Associated Press 

DETROIT A United Auto 
Workers union official yesterday 
callc:d Chrysler Corp.'s proposal to 
award S5 1.6 million in executive 
bonuses "a scandal and an outrage.'' 
The automaker announced in its proxy released Monday that shareholders will decide at their 
June 7 meeting in New Orleans how to distribute the SSI.6 million to I,465 executives, including Chair­man Lee lacocca 
"I am deeply disappointed in the management of the North American auto companies for demonstrating such greed, given the fact that we 

The Children ofthe World are the hope 
ofthe uorld-We inviteyou to keep that hope alive ­andgrowing. We are Columban Missio1Ulries working with the poor. Write to usfor more information. 
r:t=&-;;;G:;:k, 7:1Ca-;;on-;;i;;o,-N-D:l Columbatt f'atbf!rs St. Columhat~~. Nehrt~~lu1 68056 I want to bf!lp build a heller life for petJfile itt 
tbf! missim~f. Please send me infimnalion about hecominx a Columhalt missionary priest. 
Name 

Hirthtial<.'-'------------
Citr 
.Wale Zip Pbt11w 

I J.'~IUCIJiiOII I ~--;illlli,.Wi-...... ---;;...I 
are just now seeing some flecks of recovery from one of the deepest recessions this country has ex­perienced." llAW vice President Mark Stepp, who heads the union's Chrysler department, said in a state­ment. 
Stepp called the Chrysler proposals "a scandal and an outrage that give more ammunition to the enemies of the North American auto industry." 
He also claimed that the "spectacle of executives feeding at the trough" would hurt efforts at continued import restraints on japanese cars. 

The Observer Thursday, April 26, 1984 -page 7 

so~ 
Admission 

Notre Dame ACC 
JORDACHE CALVIN KLEIN SASSOON-LEE 

FROM 14.97 
JEWELRY 
50°/o off 

CLOTHING 
LADIES BLOUSES SHIRTS SLACKS &MORE 
50°/o off 
1000's OF ROCK CONCERT SHIRTS 
$3.99 
DENIM JACKETS 
$19 
FLASH DANCE SHIRTS 
$9 

WATERBEDS SAVE UPTO 50°/o 
FROM WATERBEDS WATERBEDS WATERBEDS 
PHONE 

MICHAEL JACKSON
5.99 

POSTERS
CORDLESS 
1.49
59.79 

WHILE 1000 LAST 
PONY
!:.2~~oe 
SAVE '13 
~"~~~ STEREO~ 
~ PIONEER ­JENSEN ­SANSUI ­
LEATHER JACKETS 
$58 
CYCLE JACKETS 
$99 
g95 
_ 
BUIISIIID 

Renovation projects to start at Saint Mary's 
By KAREN THOMPSON 
News Staff 
Renovations at Saint Mary's will be taking place in the science build­ing and in Holy Cross-and LeMans dorms during the next three years. Saint Mary's will be investing "nearly 
SIO million in renovating, expand­
ing and updating our current physi­
cal plant," said Controller jason 
Lindower. 
The new wing of the science building, designed by Clinton Sathrum, will provide more clas­srooms and lab space by adding a cir­cular hallway with faculty offices and research space on the north side of the building. 
The crucial part ofthe renovation, 
LIBRARY 
1----ASS=:-:::::o=J=s=TAN~=c'==z=----1 
There's free tax help at most local libraries including audio tapes to take you step-by-step through completion ofyour tax return. a reference set of the IRS free pub­lication series, and reproducible 

according to Lindower, is that "there are a great deal of mechani­cal, heating, and ventilation materials involved." He added, "We looked for an architect who would take this into consideration, and who had previous experience in designing science buildings." 
Construction on the new wing will take approximately 16 months. When the addition is finished, faculty will move into the new build­ing and renovation will begin on the existing building. 
Cost for this task has been es­timated at 56 million. Funds will be raised by gifts and pledges, and by selling tax-exempt bonds during construction. 
Funding for the Holy Cross-LeMans remodeling will be provided by a S3.5 million College Housing Loan from the u.s. Office of Education. 
The cost will cover a wide variety ofrenovation projects. Among these are the installation offire alarms and smoke detectors in both dorms. In Holy Cross, an emergency light will be installed, and the fire escapes will be repaired. Plans for LeMans call for the replacement of both elevators, and the completion ofthe two dead­end litairwells. Also to be included in the changes are renovation of the restrooms, and the addition of more electrical currents in both Holy Cross and LeMans. The projects will honor 1 5 different contracts. 
The target date for the start of the renovations isJune 1, although some of the work will not be completed until the following summer. 
,..
*****************~
,..  
: ,..  Buy  :,..  
~  Observer  ~  
i Classifieds  :  

~***************** 

NIKE 
Kids Running 1295 
REG. 19., SAVE'7 
adidas 
Runnim! 5
1.49IUSAmilDIS 
REG.$25 
DOUBLE H DAN POST 
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 
·what Does the 

Student Union Record Store Have in Store for Me 
CHEAPER PRICES...SQve24-12•ff'"'P"'""' MOST CURRENTSINGLES-!'6.Jotcomparea• 
S8.991isl) 
CUT-OUTS...s2.98-JJ.98 

GREATSELECTION... Sprimween, Fo.-lber•. s~evm Nicks, Christopher Cross, Moody Blues, Pal Benator, Journey und 
many, many more ... 
ALSO... recorded and blank ta~sovoiloble. 

CONVENIENCE. .. TneNDSU RemrdSIUreis/ocaied on the Mom Floor ofLaFortune~ Plus-ordered albums toke only one week tv am~·e.1 


NEED HELP WITH YOUR STUDENT LOAN? 
If you've attended college on a Guaranteed Stu­dent Loan or a National Direct Student Loan made after October 1, 1975, consider spending a couple of years in the Army. 
If you train fer certain specialties, the govern· ment will release you from V3 of your indebted· ness (or $1,500, whichever is greater) for each year of active duty. 
Obviously, a three year enlistment cancels 100 percent of your debt. But if you sign up for the Army's exclusive two-year enlistment option, we'll still cancel 2/3 of your debt. 
Plus, you may beeligiblefor generous educa: tional incentives. 
To find out how to serve your country and get out of debt, call the number below. SGT Jones 234·4187 Call Collect 
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
........•.·.~ ...........•...•..•.....~·.~."-..".._·.......:.\·'\~ ....••'.\.'t...'-."'..."'\'·......'.._",."'•.·11~11.~'\~.· ..·,·.~ .. ·?··.. :.-:J~,-~·: .. ·t-~.-·: J­
0 • 

~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t__________________Th_u_r~-,a-y,A_p_ril-26-,1-98-4--p-~-8 
Trying to argue on an empty stomach 
I k was a nii..T, rotten old columnist. Sincere in his hdkt: Committed to his cause. Con­vincnl he was a victim ofinjustice. And he: was asking for my hdp. 
So it was t.·asy, almost painless, for me to n·jcu him; to tdl him that though I respected 
Keith Picher 
Profundity's demise 
him ti>r having the courage to take a stand, I couldn't n:ally give: a damn. Our conversation didn't really go likt: this, hccaust.• I jazzcd it up for my column: "Keith, this is Mike Royko, I'd like your hdp. You've probably rcad my columns." 
"No, I don't rn·all. Who arc you?" 
"I'm a world-famous syndicatcd columnist who writes for the Chicago Tribune, now that thc Alkn runs tht.· Sun-Times." 
"Comc to think of it. I have rcad your work -you'rt.· the sarca~tic guy who always whines about how had cvcrything is with your cutesy style." 
"That's right, hut I do pay a little attention 
to iSSIIl'S." 
"Mayht.·, hut you always make the most noisc about tangents." 
"Anyway, Keith, some of my colleagues arc t.h:manding that I base my columns on facts. I think I'm mature t.•nough to gloss over rt.·al issues, hut my bosses an: hcing unjust and cxn·cding thdr authority. I hoped you would writc something in The Obsen,er to help me." 
''I'm toucht.·d and flattered hy your plea, hut I have to decline." 
"For what reason?" 
"Throwing up." 
"I luh?" 
"You hcard me. Throwing up." 
"Throwing up? What docs that mean~" 
"You don't know what throwing up means?" "Well sure, hut I don't understand what you're trying to say." 
"That makes two of us. llalf the time I don't know what you're trying to say. Anyway, after I read your April 20 column on Notre Dame and alcohol I threw up." 
"Arc you sure it wasn't something you ate?" 
"Let me tell you something, Mike:, this is a 
serious issue:. Every time: I read your column I 
throw up." 
"But I don't throw up." 
"Don't give me that. In a recent survey, four 
out offive dentists surveyed preferred Trident 
for their patients who chew sugarless gum." 
"Keith, I find that hard to believe:." 
"Yeah? well here: arc: some: more: stats. After 
an independent sampling of 2,673 Notre 
Dame students was forced to read your 
column on alcohol, throwing-up incrc:ast:d 
I,705 perct:nt!" 
"Keith, I find those figurt:s incredible:." "Really? When we took your column away, the incidt:nts were reduced by 96.3 percent. Thank goodness." "But I'm not talking about Notrt: Dame, I'm talking about throwing up." "I don't care if you like: throwing up. You 
sec, after a student called to tell you that the: Notre: Dame: protests were over more: than just gt:tting drunk, you declined to listt:n. You 
figured you knew everything about Notre Dame: based on the media coverage: you'd seen." 
"Now don't appeal to any sense offairness." 
''I'm not, I'm just appealing to common sense in journalism. Wht:n our student body president called and offt:rcd to t:xplain what the protest was all about, you treated him coldly, the way I hear you treat most people:. You'd already written your column, and you didn't want to he bothered by the: facts." 
"Keith, I expect you are guilty of hypocrisy." 
"It's a good thing I wear contact lc:nsc:s or I'd throw up on you for saying that. In what way am I being hypocritical?" 
"Can you honestly say that you research everything you write:?" 
"No, hut I try to. So what?" 
"Then how can you oppose my doing the same thing all the time:?" 
"Because you're not a studcnt, thousands more pcoplc read your column and you gct paid a hcll ofa lot morc than me:." 
"So?" 
"I also don't like to throw up on thc sncak, likc you." 



A student perspective on dining hall work 
"Lettuce: serve you" -a phrase known and loved hy evcry truc Notrc Dame: student, with the possible exccption of that peerless pcr­sonae: the dining hall workcr. 
As a student employee at North Dining Hall, I am well acquainted with serving the studcnt 
Mary Heilmann 
Guest column 
population, and with all the: minor irritations and gricvanccs associated with thc job. How I often have: you thought about what goes on· behind the: scenes (not counting the many times you've: wondered just what makes the gravy its pcculiar yellow hue)? 
Pcoplc: havc many misconceptions about student workers. Probably the most common of these misguided maxims is the belief that the: student who serves the food has also cooked the entire meal, and therefore deserves to he told in a menacing tone that the Hungarian Noodlc Bakc actually contains foreign dements, or that thc Roast Bccfau jus is fataL I hcar the: latter less frequently, sincc onc must survive: the meal to register a formal complaint. 
Another misconception is that every server has tasted every entree, and is therefore ablc to give a rundown of the culinary merits of each. If something necds a li:Jrmal idcntifica­tion, I gcnerally avoid it, and, accordingly, am not qualified to recommend it. 
An entire cvc:ning spent not knowing the composition of Noodlc Kuglc: can become rather tedious. A good rule: ofthumb: scan thc dining hall first, looking for prostrate bodies and taking note of the: half eaten rcmnants on thcir plates. 
Editor's Note: On Monday, April 26, Viewpoint will focus on the role of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps on a Catholic campus such as Notre Dame. This is a very important and provacative issue. Viewpoint is 

Thcre arc a few bc:ncfits to working in one ofour finc eating establishments. For instance:, I havc lc:arncd how to flip glasses into the grccn racks, with my personal rccord standing at two simultancous triplc flips. I have: also en­hanced my meager knowlcdgc of physics by studying the napkins which ride hy on the mornings of departmental exams, covered with Feq ma and qcq CV. 
Most importantly, my driving skiils have im­measurably honcd by the feat of mancuvcring tr.1y-Iadcn carts through thc dining rooms at the lunchtime: rush hour, managing to knock ovcr two chairs, a stack of bowls and one un­suspccting frcshman. 
Dining hall work is oftcn very educationaL In fact, a day on the: slop linc should he man­datory for all psychology majors, since: it h would provide them with several possiblc > topics for thcir doctoral papers. , 
Why, for cxample, do students insist on .1 scraping thc chocolate icing off their choc-1 olatc eclairs, while leaving thc cream filling on the: sidc oftheir plate? Why must students mix peanut butter, honey, maplc syrup and various othcr leftovers into a paste so thick it has to he sandblasted off the howl? 
Why do pcoplc: construct monuments to thcir architectural genius by stacking ten glasses into a pyramid that glides perfcctly along thc conveyor bclt until it crumbles with a shattering crash? As a mere English major, I could not profess to discover the answers to these idiosyncratic conundrums, hut I would love to scc: the: psychological secrets such a study would reveal. 
Well, therc it is-thc harangue: ofa student dining hall worker. Try to rcmemher it the ncxt timc you feel thc urge: to shred your nap­kin as if North Dining Hall werc thc Pentagon, or to inquire as to the: edibility ofan obviously unappetizing entree. Make my day! 
soliciting guest opm10ns on the positive aspects that ROTC may play at a Catholic university. If interested please phone The Obseroer at 239­5303 and ask to speak to the View­point department. Thank you. 
The Observer-~ -Editorial Board Department Managers 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief_ ......... Bob Vonderheide Business Manager .. _.. __ .. _Dave Taiclet Managing Editor . _. __ ... _Mark Worscheh Controller ...... _....... __ Maripat Horne 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Executive Editor . ....... Margaret Fosmoe Advertising Manager .. _... _. Jeanie Poole University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily News Editor . _. _... ___ ... Sarah Hamilton Circulation Manager ___ . ___ .. _Jeff O'Neill 1 reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as News Editor .. _... _..... Dan McCullough Systems Man~ger. _.. ___ .. Kevin Williams accurately and as objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion Saint Mary's Editor . __ .. Anne Monastyrski of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column Sports Editor. _..... __ ... Michael Su'rrivim present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Viewpoint Editor ............. Dave Grote 
Founded November 3, 1966
community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Features Editor _........ _.... Mary Healy is encouraged. Photo Editor_ . _... __ ........ Pete Laches 
--~-----~­
-----------------------------......;.__________..........................._......_.........__....___________.....,.rr. ••. ;Jt,f·"·. • • • Thursday, April 26, 1984 -page 9 P
ViewP-oint 
An opportunity to set the record straight 
Tomorrow a scene will unfold on the steps of the Administration Building that undoubt­edly will mark a turning point in the Notre Dame student's effort to achieve an improved campus life and a true voice in those decisions and issues which affect the quality of our campus life. This turning point, however, can 
R. Bertino & C. David 
Guest column 
be either positive or negative. Many eyes will he upon us, and the proper perception ofour cause is vital. 
It is up to us. 
The first few spontaneous rallies of a week ago were rare instances of students rising to­gether to voice their dissatisfaction. Slogans deriding the administration were chanted, beers were guzzled, and banners waved. The student body was shocked from apathy by so drastic a change occuring so suddenly. 
Even last Wednesday's noon rally reflected our anger. Students spoke out against Father William Beauchamp and the recommenda­tions of his committee with a heady passion. Alcohol consumption was brazenly flaunted in public. The result was the occupation ofthe building by an agitated mob ofstudents -and a willing and eager media covered the entire dramatic episode. 
Not suprisingly, the nation laughed at the immature and spoiled brats crying for the al­leged right to have their university assume liability for an underage alcohol fix. The na­tion wondered why good Catholics would put aside such relevant issues as the fight against social injustice in order to retain the right to drink beer. 
We looked like fools. The nation did not understand what we have yet to understand ourselves. We were-
and still are -angry with this particular deci­sion, despite the fact that the policy is what was expected by most. It is not so much what was done, but the way in which it was done, that we fmd disturbing. We have now come to realize that we are more upset with the process involved than we are with the actual policy. 
We are not as frustrated with losing drink­ing privileges as we are with the fact that the policy and the directive are typical of the ad­
-ministration's desire to control the quality of 
student life with nothing more than token stu­
dent input. 
Now that the cause of our discontent is 
clear, it is not too late to regain the integrity 
we have lost. Tomorrow will be a test of the 
true character of the student body of Notre 
Dame. We must shift our emphasis away from 
alcohol and toward a better social life, toward 
having a meaningful and effective voice in the 
decisions affecting our student life. We must 

abandon our beer chants and our obscene 
banners, refraining from violence or van­
dalism. We must reverse the perceived at­
titude prevalent across the nation and gain the 
respect of the administration. 
We must come out tomorrow with strength, character, and responsibility. 
Everyone knows we are enraged, but by demonstrating that we have a valid claim to an active voice in University decisions, the legitimacy of our cause will become self­evident to the ill-informed spectator. The na­tion will be watching, and the media will be their eyes and ears, ready to tell the story they want to tell: "Students Cry For Beer." Let's not give them that chance. 
RobertBertino is the student bodypresident, and Cathy David is the student body vice president. ­
P. 0. BoxQ  
Aim of the protests DearEditor: Arc we "spoiled brats," just crying over lost beer? No we are not, and it is time we remind the nation and ourselves about our cause! The issue at hand is not the alcohol policy, but the policy-making procedure here at Notre Dame. The nation views Notre Dame as a mag­nificent marvel where all of the students are well bred and reside in a tranquil atmosphere beneath the glorious "Golden Dome." Certain administrators would die to maintain this "image." Let us be reminded that university policies are created in the "best interest ofthe students," and especially in the best interest of the University. Notre Dame is no longer a University consisting of students, but the University of Notre Dame is comprised of a Board of Trus­tees, Officers of the lJniversity and a President-in-Absentia Let us remember that they are just taking care ofus ­it is for our own good. This issue will not cause me to transfer. I'll endure my remaining two years. Notre Dame still is a spe­cial place despite the fact that I'm unable to make my own decisions. I have one question to ask of this glorious University -in five to 10 years will you be there to help me decide who I want to marry, where I want to live and the number of children I want to have? Remember -the issue at hand is not the alcohol policy, but the policy-making proce­dure. joAnn Chavez Sophomore Roemer disappointing DearEditor: Recently, I read an article in the Chicago Tribune on the alcohol protests. I was very disappointed to sec Dean Roemer quoted as saying, "It's a reflection ofstudents today that they would demonstrate about alcohol in­stead of nuclear war or hunger issues." First, the administration does not seem to realize the recent protests are aimed at the poor quality of social life as much as the new alcohol policy. The students tried to reason with the administration through representa­tion on the Committee, yet this representa­tion apparently had no effect. It was only after this approach failed that students decided that vocal demonstrations might cause the administration to re-examine a poor policy. More distressing, however, is the implica­tion that students today are more concerned with where their next beer is coming from than the social problems of today. Perhaps Dean Roemer is unaware that one ofthe most popular classes on campus today is "The Nuclear Dilemma" Does he know ofthe many Notre Dame studentswho recently took part in the recent CROP walk to raise money for the hungry? How about student volunteers at NISH and Logan Center? Or what about the recent Mock Convention? More than 500 stu­dents spent four days discussing issues ran­ging from abortion to nuclear power. Unfortunately, direct, constructive, and realistic approaches to these various  problems do not merit the attention of the class. (I'd rather pitch a tent in D-6 with the importance to a Catholic university, especial­media. But don't these approaches ac­Business majors protesting the Alcohol ly to our university which has evinced a spe­complish more than any large public policy.) cial interest (at least academically) in the demonstrations could accomplish? The College of Arts & Letters agrees with problems ofLatin America True there is much more each student this standpoint, but contends that it is the What is at stake here is the nature and direc­could do, but it is sad that Dean Roemer, a man Business College that is the root of the tion ofCatholic activity among the peoples of supposedly in touch with today's students, problem. After several meetings with my ad­the developing world. There is a great risk that would do such a disservice to the many visor, he told· me that there might be some the lessons of history may be forgotten and actively-involved Notre Dame and Saint spots left in a few of the Business classes, and that the valuable examination of conscience Mary's students who arc trying to understand that I should go see the Associate Dean, Vince which the Catholic Church has undertaken in today's problems and deal with them in an in­Raymond. Afrer my brief and very unpleasant the past two decades will go for naught. telligent manner. encounter with the dean, I can see why the There was a time when the cross accom­Paul Kompare problem lies with the Business College. The panied the sword, when the preacher of the junior meeting lasted no more than forty-five gospel was the trusted companion of the seconds. conquering colonizer. Slowly and painfully When I walked in to his office, he told me to through a process that has taken centuries, we give him some background. I repeated to him have learned how to star< separating the two.Misdirected values what my advisor had told me, and in mid­Yet there is much more to learn, and Father sentence, he cut me off, saying, "End ofcon­Gutierrez is among our best teachers. He has DearEditor: versation." He would not give me an been showing us how Europo-centric our In the 60s and 70s, when the horrific situa­explanation, and repeatedly stopped me from theology still remains and how necessary it is tion in Vietnam was taking place, the adding any comments. Furthermore, as I ap­to remove the cultural and economic barriers demonstrations on the Notre Dame campus proached the door, he told me to "Go and get that separate his people from the authentic did not make the headlines of the national an education." It is this kind of boneheaded gospel ofChrist. newspapers. It took taking beer away from un­attitude that prevents hundreds of students derage drinkers in the 80s to give Notre Dame from taking classes in the business field and Now, however, we risk a regression to a its much-wanted national prestige. expanding their practical education. Mr. rigid concept of orthodoxy, to self-righteous Student Body President Rob Bertino, who Raymond is the most rude and inconsiderate intolerance, or at best to bureaucratic as well seems rather intoxicated with his position person that I have met on this campus, totally as doctrinal narrow-mindedness. concerning this issue, was quoted in the April unbecoming ofa representative ofthis univer­I hope we all use this occasion to undertake 18 issue of The Observer, promising national sity. a serious effort to understand the extent to magazine coverage for this Friday's rally. I feel that the Administration should step in which Father Gutierrez has helped bring the Well, good for Bertino -it is very patriotic and bridge this communication gap between Catholic church back to the service of the to scream for the media to scrape up a storyon the colleges ofArts & Letters and Business. poor and the humble, and how he has helped why the University shouldn't uphold the law. Perhaps people like Raymond would not be us who are the privileged members of the Unfortunately, Bertino and his mob ofprotes­such boneheads if he took some of his own Church to participate in the authentic mission tors arc just one more example of the mixed advise and got a real education. I could recom­ofevangelization. up value system here at Notre Dame and Saint mend several Arts & Letters courses that Through his theological writings he hasMary's. would improve his communicative skills and reminded us of the basic task with whichAs men and women indoctrinated in Chris­teach him some common courtesies. But, Christ entrusted his Church, and through histian beliefs and ideals, we should channel our knowing those stubborn people in the Col­work with the downtrodden he has enrichedoutrage toward real injustice; we should pay lege ofArts & Letters, the courses are probab­us all. I hope also that the various groups and more attention to social justice issues rather ly closed to Business majors. individuals at Notre Dame will recognize thethan where our next beer is coming from. Kevin G. Flynn seriousness of this case and that they willIfNewsweek and Time arrive on Friday as Sophomore vigorously express their concern, their sad­Bertino hopes, they will witness well­ness and their solidarity with Father Gutier­educated young Catholics arguing with the rez.administration for an alcoholic solution to joseph A. Buttigiegtheir "social" problems.. Guitierrez assessment Department ofEnglishAnne Gallagher junior DearEditor: LeMansHall Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger of the Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine ofthe Faith has recently asked the Bishops of Peru to un­Denying education dertake an "assessment" ofthe work ofFather Show some decorum Gustavo Gutierrez. DearEditor: News of this investigation (or is it an in-I would like to relate some of my feelings of quisition?) of Father Gutierrez comes as a DearEditor: frustration and anger concerning university shock and a humiliation. A shock because Student overreaction to the alcohol policy policies on pre-registration. In particular, I am anyone who knows Father Gutierrez and his has simply provided the University with more speaking about courses supposedly available work will find it hard to imagine how he could ammunition. Signs advocating drug abuse, no for Arts & Letters students in the A.L.P.A. have inspired such serious suspicions, such matter how humorous, coupled with screams Program, which normally arc only offered to grievious doubts, such profound questions as of"Let's get drunk," serve only to further the Business majors. I will be a junior next year, to distract the Vatican from its financial scan­administration's position. and has of yet been unable to get any entry­dals and its Polish "problem." level business courses because of a lack of This Friday, national attention will be space. Since this University boasts about its A humiliation because the many Catholics focused on the Notre Dame student body. goals for higher education, I, along with who have looked up to Father Gutierrez as a Banners arc sure to show up on network several hundred other students, feel that the symbol of the renovation of the Church's television, unruly students' pictures will be administration should do everything in its commitment to the unprivileged and the dis-transmitted over the wire services. power to provide the courses that so many possessed will now feel crushed by the re­students want. If"we are N.D.," we owe it to ourselves toemergence of an old authoritarianism -the One must first understand that an Arts and show some decorum. We need not act likeHoly Spirit is once again being allowed to Lettersns.ffi,~~.nt who has also had the oppor­fools to prove our point.speak only through the voice of the Roman tunity to take business courses, has a much Curia. better chance ofgetting a job after graduation. The news from Peru should make us set After paying close to S9000 each year, I don't aside our current preoccupations so we can Kevin Ryan feel like camping out in O'Shag just to get a discuss and reflect on an issue of the greatest Senior  

Sports Briefs 
The Weightlifting Club will sponsor a bench 
press and squatting meet Saturday, May 5, at I p.m. There will be 
men's and women's weight classes and medals will be awarded to 
first through third places in each class. The meet is open to 
everyone, including varsity athletes. Sign up at Rockne weight room 
or call Pat ( 8762) or Mark ( 1156). Fee is S2. -The Obseroer 
The College ofScience Dean's 7K run will be held this Saturday, April 28, at 9:30 a.m. Registration for the race, which will follow a course around the lakes, will be in Nieuwland room 229 until tomorrow. The $3.50 registration fee includes aT-shirt.-The Obseroer 
The An Tostal 5K Charity Run will be held this Saturday, April 28 at 9:30 a.m. Registration is at 8:30 a.m. at Stepan Center, and a S2 fee for charity is requested. For information, call Chris at 8796. -The Obseroer 
A putt-putt golftournaDlent is being held this Sunday by NVA. You and a partner can sign up by calling NVA at 239-6100. Transportation to and from the course will be provided free, leaving the library circle at 4 p.m. The golf will be offered at discount rates. -The Obseroer 
A table tennis club is being started on campus. If interested, please attend a meeting at the Lafortune little Theater today at 4:30 or call Ted Pfarrer at 1988. -The Obseroer 
The new swimming pool made a humble begin­ning yesterday as ground was broken behind the ACC. Ellerbee Ar­chitects will continue work through the summer, with completion scheduled for August, 1985. -Tbe Obseroer 
The SMC Tennis TeamdefeatediUPU-FortWayne 5-1 yesterday. Mary Carol Hall, Caroline Zem and Heather Tenofeew notched victories in their singles matches. Hall joined Debbie Laverie and Zem teamed with Tenofeew to register wins in doubles action. -The Obseroer 
The SMC TrackT ealfll placed third out offour teams at Taylor yesterday. The 1600-meter relay team of Anne Bianco, Trish McPartlin, Trish Cox and Mary Lunneen placed third but set a new school record with a time of4:33.6. Other people placing were: Lunneen, first in the 400 meters and second in the 800 meters; McPartlin, third in the bigh jump, and Diane Hartwig second in the discus. -The Obseroer 
The Annual Blue-Gold Ganle wm be played in Notre Dame Stadium this Saturday, April28, at 1 p.m. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students will be admitted free with ID at gate 15 only. -The Obseroer 
St. Joe Athletic Club's entry into the Michiana amateur baseball league is seeking a field manager for its summer baseball program. Anyone who enjoys the association ofcollege-age athletes is encouraged to call Len Mikolasewski at 289-2157 or 287­3335. -The Observer 
Thursday! April 26, 1984-page 10 
Big Teni votes in shot clock 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -The Big Ten Con­
ference on Wednesday voted to use 
a 45-second clock on a one-year ex­
perimental basis, beginning with 
league play in January 1985. 
Acting on the recommendation of the conference's basketball coaches, the Big Ten athletic directors ap­proved the measure at their regular­ly scheduled meeting. The conference now will seek approval from the NCAA's rules committee to begin using the clock next season. 
Non-conference opponents that play in Big Ten arenas and do not normally use the shot clock will have the option of using it. 
"Big Ten basketball offers a great entertainment value, and this should make it even better," said Jim Dutcher, head coach at Minnesota and a member of the NCAA rules committee. "This will add a l)ew ele­ment to Big Ten basketball."· 
The Big Ten set an all-tim!'= NCAA conference record for attcmdancc during the 1983-84 season, when an average of I 2, 779 fans witnessed the 90-game league slate. Forty-one of the 90 conference games last season were decided by seven points or less. 
The Big Ten's decision comes on the heels of the NCAA's ruling ear­lier this month to delay for at least another season the use of a 45­

L--------------------------------------------------------------~ second clock in all Division I basket­
ball games. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center, accepts classified advertising from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obseroer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five t·harac·
Classifieds 
ters erda 
NOTICES 
COMPUTERIZED TYPING SERVICE • 2n-6045. W/p1ck up & deliver 
TYPING AVAILABLE· 287-4082 
LOUIE'S FAMILY STYLE ITALIAN RESTAURANT·corner of Noire Dame and Soulh Bend Avenues( 100 teet from the bars) 1.50 offf any large p1zza 
EXPERT TYPING DONE IN MY HOME THESES. TERM PAPERS. ETC. CALL MRS COKER. 233-7009 
MINNESOTA CLUB PARTY at NICkleS Fn. Apnl 27, 6·1 0 pm 21 10 ReqUired 
Ta-morrow and to-morrow. and to­morrow Creeps 10 th1s peny pace from day to day-And still we'll be readmg a Shakespeare poem or play . Come hear us, on the New Mall by LaFortune--non­stop 111 April 29' 
HAVEYOUPAIDYOUR BILL TODAY? Come to the New Mall. near LaFortune-­donata your 11me to read or your $$ for Prof M1la1n and fam1ly the Shakespeare Marathon read1ng, 111 Apnl29! 
ALL THE QUAD'S A STAGE-See what rt's about! New Mall. near LaFortune! 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST ON ACC RACQUETBALL COURT 4B. GOLD CHAIN WITH NOTRE DAME INTRAMURAL MEDAL (SMALL REC­TANGLE) MEDAL HAS ONLY SEN· TAMENTAL VALUE (AWARDED TO FATHER IN 1944). KEEP CHAIN BUT PLEASE RETURN MEDAL CALL PAUL 272 0746 OR ANN-MARIE 284 5087 
Lost two Jackets at Mornssey saturday mght One was a blue Notre Dame windbreaker and the other was a pla1n blue windbreaker They were left 1n the basement restroom If found please call aat1087 or 8868 Thank·you very much 

Found_ black Aspen baseball cap; found 1nMalhbldn.. mormngol4 18; call8330 
lost. a Walker Cup 3 ~ron on 9th hole. pis call8329 
lost Set of keys on brown leather tag Wllh 1nll1als MB It found call 4565 
LOST: LIGHT BLUE NOTRE DAME BOOK BAG WITH LEATHER BROWN BOT­TOM FILLED WITH E.E. NOTES IN A 3­RING BLACK BINDER. PLEASE RETURN TO DANNY 1817. NO QUEs­TIONS ASKEDIIIIIII LOST; Wallet on Easter. desperately need ID and dnvers licsence. If found please call1224 
Lost·White, square. spineless. squishy, last seen 1n the North Din1ng Hall w1th col­lar up. Answers to name of TOFU. If found return to the Todd Owers tor UMOC com· mittee. Thanks a lot! 
Found· Flonda s Ugliest d1mng hall coor­dinator TOFU 
LOST ONE NEW PAIR OF PLASTIC STETSON TINTED GLASSES IN A BLACK CASE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 283·8933 
FOR RENT ,, 

WANTED FEMALE ROOMMATE SUM· MER SESSION mce house good neigh­borhood Furnished except for your bedroom. 1 114 m1le from campus $140 Mo & 112 of ut1h11es Call Coleen after 7:00 234·9970 
HOUSES -Furnished. Close to campus 4·6 Bedrooms, 2 Baths CALL 277-3461 
Graduate students 4·bedroom home. tul­ly furnished 1nclud1ng ut1ht1es for summer months $300/mo. 288-31 09 
FOR RENT, SUMMER SUB-LETIING FOR TURTLE CREEK APT NEGO­TIABLE RATE!! CALL 277-8497 
WANTED 

PHOENIX BOUND. BUT I NEED A PLACE TO STAY FROM JUNE 9 TILL AUGUST t 1. ANY SUGGESTIONS OR OFFERS? PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 239· 53130R277·4851 
GRADUATION TICKETS NEEDED. CALL PAUL AT 239·5313 or 277·4851 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559 $50,553/yr Now h1nng Your area Call 1-805-687·6000. Ext R-9834 
ROOMATE NEEDED NEXT YEAR SEAN 277-1405 
20 PEOPLE NEEDED FOR ACC SUPER SALE WORK THIS WEEKEND. $5 PER HR. SEEMARKATACCONFRIOAYBE­TWEEN 8& 9 AM 
Roommate needed to moveOC on June 1 Call MIKE 277-6463 
Ride needed to DAYTON lh1s weekend call Katie· 6874 
MUSfCIAfi!S 
"THE LAW" 
NO's Hottest Party Band Ia looking for 
a talented bass player for the 1984-85 
year. Call 283-3280 for an audHion. 
NEED RIDE TO MARQUETTE THIS WEEKEND 4/27 OR 4/28 (FRIDAY OR SATURDAY)· PLEASE CALL MATI AT 277-3378. 
R1de offered to John Carroll (Cleveland) on 4/27. Call Holly 6738 
FOR SALE 
FOR SALE. FURNITURE; BEDS. BARS, COUCH ETC. CALL 233-7885 
MAXELL XL 2's 2.50 ea. MEAKS 277· 3306 
TICKETS 
Summer Olympic tickets· call Anna Marie at1335 
NEED Commencement Tickets! Willing to pay a reasonable price. Call Terry at 8764. 
GRANDPARENTS TRAVELLING FROM HAWAII FOR GRADUATION NEED TIX DESPERATELY. CALL BILL AT 1079 
need 2 graduation lix 232-6085 
YES... YES.. I w1lllrade 2 YES tix tor 2 NO commence t1x. or will consider sell1ng ·em. Call Dan 287-6273 & leave message 
I need to buy several commencement tickets. Need nol be together Jim 1572. 
NEED GRDUATION TJX DESPERATE· L Y!!! Relatives com1ng from abroad. Will pay CA$H!!I Call Greg-3317. 
NEED GRAD TICS.$$$$. CALL 1610. 
NEED 2 GRAD. TIX CALL MARILYN 1294 
HELP NEED AT LEAST TWO GRADUA· TION TICKETS CALL 283·8933 
NEED MANY GRAD TIX! $$$ CALL KURT AT 234-2252 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TIL 3 AM_ U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
COSMOS FEVER ......... CURE ITIIIIIII 
Summer Olymp1c tickets tor sale-call An­na Marie at 1335 
RETURNING STUDENTS PREPARE FOR THIS SUMMER AND NEXT YEAR Buy a Quality used car for less than $175 GET THE MONEY TOGETHER YOUR­SELF. OR GET YOUR FFIIENDS TO PITCH IN TEN BUCKS APIECE, AND SHARE This 69 Mercury runs great Insure Cheap Transportation OFF CAMPUS Next Year CALL 283-1866 FOR INFO.. AND A TEST DRIVE INSURE FUN FOR NEXT YEAR Don'tgo DRY." go Drive" 
Do you know someone who would look better wearing a paper bag? 
Father Beauchamp. of course. 
Does your roommate JUS! look like he JUS! got hit by a semi on U.S. 31? II so, grab your pennies, and vote him for U.M.O.C. 
UMOC, UMOC, UMOC. Oh boy, are your UGLY 
I love Mark Boennlnghausen's stuff. (I really do.) 
HEY SHOWTIME: Don't you guys know that you don't press the other team when you're ahead 20-0. C'mon. Show some class -that is if you have any I 
SOCIAL LIFE HELD HOSTAGE· DAY 10 
Cure for MUNCHIES dlscovaredl See coupons In the Yellow Pages of your Campus Telephone Dlrectol)rl 
LSAT. GMAT. MCAT in your future? Think about Stanley H. Kaplan prepara­tion. 
FRISBEE GOLF 
Come play the six-hole Pebble Beach of Notre Dame Frisbee-Golf Course (4:30 
p.m. Saturday). Bnng your own frisbee to to the bench in front of Holy Cross Hall. For more details, call Ke1lh at283-8866. 
ROM the REAL UGLY MAN issues a challenge lo all the pseudo-ugly men on campus (that Include• you "pretty­boy" Gorgar). Meet me at the bookstore semi's lor the ugly debate, IF YOU OAREII Come out of your cave Crouth. 
_Meetlhe challenge! Spectators bring your coins to vote for true ugliness ROM 

Ride wanted to University of Iowa, Iowa CHy. Leave 4-27 (anytime) and return 4-29. Ca111479, ask lor John M. 
Though paying the surgery bills lor UMOC is charitable. all proceeds go to Sister Marita's Day School 
STEVE DEMARTINO lor UMOC!I 
Who's uglier than Yoko Ono? STEVE DEMARTINO-Ior UMOCI 
The man of your dreams lives in 150·151 Alumni Hall. 
GOOD JOB BOOKSTORE SCOREKEEPERSII KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK AS WE HEAD INTO THE HOMESTRETCH 
ANTOSTAL'S IRISH WAKE ANTOS· TALS IRISH WAKE THE BIGGEST DANCE OF THE YEAR WILL TAKE PLACE THIS 1111 SATURDAY NIGHT !1!1 at Stepan Center from 91i112 FEATURING the FAMOUS CHIAGO BAND: ARIAN 
1 

and aD.J. THE ENTERTAINERS ON­LY$2 
SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES Shorts and Shades is comingl!!l May 5. Howard Hall Shorts and Shades Party Be there!! SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES SHORTS AND SHADES 
Hey. LT. don't say I never put a personal in tor you! 
There was a young man from Brist. Who traveled through lime w1th a lhck of thewnst. 
Without any bother He killed his grandfather And found that he didn't exi 

PETER PRINCIPLES. 1 THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS A GOODWENCH 
ARE YOU A FEMMES FANATIC? WE ARE ORGANIZING A BUS TRIP TO U CHICAGO TO SEE THE VIOLENT FEMMES THIS SATURDAY APRIL 28. CONCERT AT B pm, WE'LL LEAVE AROUND 6 INTERESTED? OF COURSE YOU ARE CALL BILL 1185 OR PAT 1160 FOR MORE INFO. 
DORM FEUD!! TONIGHT AT 6:00 AT ANGELA (SMC). See the Wild Women ot 
J 1 Walsh. Dillomtes,the Mob. Farley Girls.Holy Cross(SMC).P.W. and many more in this new An T ostal event. 
THIS SITUATION CALLS FOR A REAL· LY STUPID AND FUTILE GESTURE ... 
... AND WE'RE JUST THE GUYS TO DO IT. 
t.ioTR'E....ii'Ai:4e:::;:·iiis....B\i.o:s.....F'o'Fi 
YOUIII ·f 
............................................,................... 
AN TOSTAL KEG TOSS · FRIDAY AT 
1.00 ON GREEN FIELD 
CLEVELANDERS There WILL be a baggage truck at the end ol the year Watch your mailboxes tor luther details 
TO NOTRE DAME FROM JAY ZABACK 
I THINK ITS TIME THAT WE ADDRESS 
THE ISSUE OF WHETHER WE, THE 
STUDENTS. ARE MEMBERS OF AN 
ACADEMIC INSTITUTION OR THE 
CHEERING SECTION FOR THE FOOT· 
BALL TEAM. GO IRISH!!! 
FRISBEE GOLF FEVER: CATCH ITI 
JENNY AND ARTHUR: BREAK A LEG· LANCE 
FLOC NIGHT AT THE NAZZII Come hear some campus favorites like John Ken­nedy. Ora Jones, a womens barbershop trio. and more. Great lime and lree pop· com. tool Saturday, Apnl 28 from 9-11 
pm. 
COME TO FLOC NIGHT AT THE NAZZII ENJOY CAMPUS TALENT, INCLUDING JOHN KENNEDY. ORA JONES. NOBLE LEVESQUE, ETC. GUITAR. PIANO. VOICE. ITS ALL HERE II SAT. APRIL28 FROM9-11PM 
FLOC NIGHT AT THE NAZZII FLOC NIGHT AT THE NAZZJI FLOC NIGHT AT TIHE NAZZII SAT. APRIL 28 FROM 9­11 PM ENJOY THE TUNES OF ORA JONES. JOHN KENNEDY. DENNIS ARECHIGA, AND OTHERS'! 
Cap oil An Tostal!l Saturday NIQhl at801 ST LOUISII BE THERE OR BE SQUARE!! 
Happy Birthday. Ann1e! Fnends like you last a lifetime! We Jove you! Barb & Tracy 
Irs that season again...the cantalopes are ripe and JUS! walling to be thumped! They·re at your produce counter now Rm 445 LeMans or call5234 SMC 
BEWARE! TOFU IS COMING!! 
GET INVOLVED! Mandatory Meet1ng For All Those Interested In Becom1ng A Part Of Next Years ND/SMC YOUNG DEMOCTRATS Thursday Apnl 26th ­8 00 New Orleans Room. LaFortune 
Dav1d B. Curliss Happy Birthday from Bambi, Thumper, and 42 other adonng tans. 
DRY LAND is coming!!!!!!!! 
RITA BUDYNK RUNS LIKE A GIRL! 

. . . . .
·····························-··························..····· 
....... ·.. ... 
-...... -. -.. -. -­
--............... , ... __ , 

, 
~ • :a. ._ t. 1 a I • 1r: I a ' l J I; I a I • ' "' ~ r.. 1 " ·~ ..__ 1.• ,_ . ~ o. .ll •. 'II."". "'· •.'" ~. • . ..,_ -~ ..._ "'-....__....._...., ~,. ---.. "'o...... "lir ""tl ........ , ........... ....._ "'-.... '-"'1.. "'II. "11111. "'II. ._., "'I "\ "\ • ,. • "' ,. ., • .., .., -.. "" ~ .,. ~ f" ,.. -.., • ~ 'I'" f" ... .,.. -.. ~ .., . r .-T...t ...-:r..Ji" • Ill ... • a •• 
J 

The Observer Thursday, April 26, 1984 -page 11 
Sixteen teams remain o"0'f(,i-''' 

The Observer Thursday, April26, 1984-page lQ 
Spring goals met 
Coaches evaluate progress in Irish s:pring workouts 
By THERON ROBERTS 
Sports W rlter 
With practice nearing its comple­
tion for the shoot year and the Blue­
Gold game fast approaching, the 
Notre Dame coaching staff is taking a 
look back on spring workouts to 
evaluate the team's progress. 
Offensive coordinator Ron Hud­
son and defensive coordinator Andy 
Christoff are pleased with what they 
have seen and believe that their 
respective units have accomplished 
the goals they set forth at the begin­
ning of tht: spring. 
With ten starters returning on of­fense in the fall, Hudson has what seems to be an enviable position get­ting ready for spring drills before they started five wteks ago. 
There were some concerns about the offensive unit dealing with depth that needed to be addressed. Hud­son also wanted to expt·rimcnt with some difti:rent alignment and insert additional plays into tht· offensive ar­senal. 
Even though there was some ex­perimentation with new things, a major goal for lludson's unit was to become more proficient in the fun­damentals. 
"Our offense is fundamentally sound, and that was one ofthe things that we looked at," says Hudson. "We arc very pleased with the 
Majors 
continuedfrom page 14 
Angels 5, Brewers 1 
MILWAUKEE -Dick Schofield 
cracked a three-run homer to sup­
port Mike Witt's seven-hit pitching 
as the California Angels defeated the 
Milwaukee Brewers 5-1. 
Schofield's home run, his second 
of the season, came after Bob 
Boone's bases-loaded grounder gave 
the Angels a 2-l lead in the seventh. 
Schofield then chased Milwaukee 
starter Jaime Cocanower, 0-3, by 
blasting the first pitch into the left­
field stands. 
Royals 3, Orioles 2 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Greg Pryor 
slammed a pitch from Baltimore 
relief ace Tippy Martinez into the 
left-field stands with two out in the 
bottom of the ninth inning to give 
the Kansas City Royals a 3-2 victory 
over the stuggling Baltimore 
Orioles. 
Dan Quisenberry, 1-1, pitched the 
ninth inning in relief of Larry Gura 
and got the victory. 
Tigers 9, Rangers 4 
ARLINGTON, Texas -John 
Grubb, Howard Johnson and Lance 
Parrish hit home runs to power the 
red-hot Detroit Tigers to a 9-4 vic­
tory over the Texas Rangers. 
Grubb's home run in the second 
Inning gave Detroit a 1-0 lead and 
the Tigers made it 3-0 in the fourth 
when Dave Stewart, 0-5, walked 
Chet Lemon and Johnson homered 
high Into the center-field. 
The Rangers pulled within 3-2 in the fifth when Pete O'Brien singled and Marv Foley homered off Detroit's Milt Wilcox, 2-0. But the Tigers wrapped up their sixth con­secutive victory and 15th In 16 games this season with five runs in the seventh. 



team's progress, especially the The depth charts may be more improve our squad's team concept action, are battling for a position young linemen." complete than at the outset ofspring and mental toughness," says Chris­alongsideJoeJohnson. 
Hudson notes many things have pratice, but lack ofgame experience toff. "In those aspects, I think we im­"We'll have depth in the secon­
been accomplished during the is always a concern to a coach who proved a great deal, but we're still dary in the fall, but the thing we will 
spring. has to use young players. not exactly where we want to be." be lacking is experience," Christoff 
"We got Allen Pinkett to catch the "Lack of experience is something 

"What's important is the improve­states. "There's no way to combat ball better-we ran him on pass pat· that teams contend with every ment, and we've made strides in that that except by playing them." terns even though he didn't rush the spring," explains Hudson. "Even direction. When we come back in 
The defensive unit was involved ball much; we found that we had two though we are young in some posi­the fall, the players should be where in a lot of hitting, probably more very competent backup tailbacks in tions, we feel good about how we 
we want them to be." than that is typical for spring Alonzo Jefferson and Hiawatha Fran­stand." At the beginning ofthe spring, the practice. But that was needed, cisco, before he (Francisco) got a In addition to completing the area where the most amount of im­
according to Christoff. chance to play defense." depth charts, the offensive unit also provement was needed was in the "We did a lot of hitting, and as far "We were also really happy with has done a lot ofexperimenting with secondary, because of the heavy as experiencing game situations what we saw at quarterback," Hud­different formations and put in a few losses suffered due to graduation. that's the way to get more ex· son continues. "Steve was more more plays, since the basic offensive Some personnel changes have oc· perience. Ifyou're not given the op­proficient at picking up seondary structure will carry over from last curred in the search for the best 
portunity, you don't get better at it." 
receivers, and Scott Grooms es­season. players to fill the open positions in Christoff did a lot of position 
tablished himselfas our backup." "We took a look at a lot of dif­the secondary, and Christoff wants switching in order to get his best 
Depth was an important issue ferent things, such as naked passes to find five or six players who he can eleven players on the field. Mike during spring practice, especially on and using false keys to divert the rely on in the secondary. Larkin was moved to outside the offensive line. That uncertainty defense," Hudson says. "We also The learning has been a little slow linebacker in order for him to be was settled somewhat with the tried incorporating the flanker into for Christoff's liking. "Mentally, they able to have Mike Kovaleski on the emergence of some new faces to option plays and putting him in mo­aren't where I wanted to be as far as first team also. take the second-team positions on tion to keep things moving." letting their mistakes affect them, "We feel that almost all the 
the depth charts. Overall, Hudson was pleased with but I've liked their eagerness to changes in positions we had on "We found good, young backup the progress that he saw during the learn and their physical toughness." defense were very productive. That players for our offensive line," notes spring. "From the standpoint of "At the present time, I think that was so we could get the best eleven 
Hudson. "We had the first team pret· meeting specific goals, we feel we we've made great improvement in players on the field. Now we're ty much settled, but we were a little accomplished a great deal." the secondary," Christoff continues. switching players around to get the concerned about backups." "We are pleased and excited to "There are players that we can co.unt next best eleven there." 
jon Askin, Robbie Finnegan, Marty see that the sun is out finally," com­on to play for us in game situations, The most important achievement Roddy, Jerry Weinle and Sean Hef­ments Hudson. "That is one ob­and at the start of the spring we according to Christoff is the attitude fern are the people who figure to be jective that we did not accomplish 
couldn't count on those in· adjustment. "Our players know that 
on call in case of an injury. Ron this spring." dividuals." one has to do his job for a defense to 
Plantz and Tom Doerger continue to The picture for Christoff may not The players in contention for the be successful, rather than looking at 
battle for the quick tackle position. be as bright as it is for his offensive positions are cornerbacks Pat it as an individual." 
"We feel confident that if one of counterpart, but the Irish defensive Ballagc, Mike Haywood, an offensive With goals achieved, and the hopt· the players went down that those coordinator is pleased with the im­convert, and Troy Wilson. At safety of a good Blue-Gold contest, the guys behind them could show that provements he has seen. it looks like James Bobb and Steve Notre Dame football team hopes to 
they are real competitors," Hudson "Our major goals were to become Lawrence, who has been hobbled 
have a positive outlook for the 1984 says. more fundamentally sound, to try to with an injury incurred in Bookstore season. 

::. 
· , ' PRICES GOOD AT SOUTH PRICES GOOD THRU 
:,.-BEND AVE STORE ONLY APRIL 28, 1984 
.//. 

BEER LIQUOR Old Milwaukee or ~ ll•J0l<Ll_ Wild Turkey 799.: 
750ml 86 proof 
. ,_:)
Old Milwaukee lJYII wau.ttee. 

"It doesn't get any bett:::, than this!" King Cellar 
~ight 5.49 Vodka 
7.99 < '·: . 
1.75L 
!:Ailler Lite 7.99 

King Cellar Michelobor 
Gin 
1.75L 
8.99
Mich Light
24bollles 

8.99 King Cellar Guiness Rum 
8.99
Stout USL 
24bollles 

17.99 King Cellar Miller High 
Tequila 
9.99
1.75L 
life Everclear

8.49
LP 
750ml 
7.99 

QUARTS Old Milwaukee 7.09 


The Observer Thursday, April26, 1984-page 13 

The Observer/Paul Cifarelli 

jim Reed ofVirtual Unknowns drives to the basket in theirgame against Now or Never yesterday. Reed scored eight points and grabbed 14 rebounds to lead his team in both categories. Phil Wolf reviews yesterday's games on the backpage. 
~~~!! 
I 
PONY 
g95

!:C.~ 2~~oe 

NIKE 2
Kids Running 1 95 
REG. 19" SAVE'7 

adidas . 
Runnine: 495
IUS Alii L'JDIS 
1
REG. $25 
Suffers letdown 

Women's tennis team drops two 
By MARY SIEGER 
Sports Writer 
It was a disappointing Easter break for the Notre Dame women's tennis team as the Irish lost to Northwestern University on Tues­day, 9-0, and dropped an important match, 6-3, to Morehead State llni­versity last week. 
Tuesday's loss to top ranked Northwestern was not surprising to Notre Dame head coach Sharon Petro. "Northwestern is the tough­est team on our schedule," ex­plained Petro. "I would have been happy with two victories." 
The contest against the Wildcats was closer than the final 9-0 score indicated, as the Irish sent four matches to three sets with Northwestern. 
Mary Colligan, at number three singles, and Joanne Biafore, at num­ber six singles, both split sets with their Wildcat opponents, while the doubles teams of Colligan and Pam Fischette and Susie Panther and Laura Lee also gave Northwestern a run for its money. 
"I'm surprised we didn't pull off some of those three setters," said Irish co-captain Greta Roemer. "But some people were down going into the match and it was a big factor." 
"Pam Fischette and Mary Colligan 
Lax 
continuedfrompage 16 
surge. By the time the visitors could cut the lead to one again, there were only two seconds left on the clock. 
Once again, attackmen Bob Troc­chi and Joe Franklin led the Notre Dame scoring attack. Scoring leader Trocchi had three goals and three as­sists, while Franklin added three 
KAVPRO II COMPUTER 
Comes Standard With 64K of Memory two Disk Drives 
9" Green Screen 
Softwt.re Included: 
Easy to use Keyboard Wordstar Word Processor with numeric keypad Wordplus Spelling Proofreader Parallel and 
Profitplan Spreadsheet Perfect Writer Word Processor Perfect Speller Perfect Calc Spreadsheet Perfect Filer Database Microsoft Basic 
played well at number one doubles, but I'm extremely disappointed with our number two doubles," said Petro. "They had the lead, then they stopped being competitive and found the match wasn't over yet." 
The team's troubles began last Thursday when Morehead State snapped Notre Dame's eight match winning streak in a crucial contest. 
"I'm extremely disappointed be­cause the score should have been 5­4, and there were two matches we should have won," said Petro. "It was our most important match of the year and we blew it." 
The team was down 4-2 going into the doubles competition and the match was decided after the number two doubles team of Tee and Pan­ther fell to Morehead State 6-3, 5-7, 3-6. "We've got to remember that a match is not over until the last point is won," said Petro. 
Roemer blamed Thursday's loss on a combination offactors. She felt the result of the Morehead State match effected the team's perfor­mance at Northwestern. "We knew they'd be good, but not that good," said Roemer. "We were looking for­ward to break and mentally we weren't there." 
The loss to Morehead State 
eliminated the team's chances for an 
goals and one assist. They received help from midfielders Tom Grote and Quinn. who combined for three goals and two assists. 
The high fmal score was some· what deceptive. Although the Irish gave up more than I 0 goals for only the third time all season, they played two quarters -the second and fourth -with a very stingy defense led by goalie Rob Simpson who stopped 21 Denison shots. In fact, 18 of the 23 goals in the game were scored in the first and third quarters. 
Serial Interface 
ABSOLUTELY UNBEATABLE 
Take a stab at sportswriting. 

automatic bid to the NCAA Division II National Championship Tourna­ment and gave Morehead State the Division II regional title. Now the Irish are competing with the Univer­sity of Southern Illinois (Edwardsville) to win an at large bid to the Tournament. "Ifwe get a bid, then things will work out in the long run," said Petro. 
"Our only chance to go is if the committee chooses all three of us from the Midwest and to do that we're going to have to show that the dominance has shifted from Califor­nia to the Midwest," explained Petro. "Our record speaks for itself, and we still have a good chance for an at-large bid." 
This weekend the Irish travel to Toledo, Ohio to face the University ofToledo and the University ofOhio in their final roadtrip of the regular season. 
To prepare for this weekend's matches, the Irish will intensify their practice and work on improving their concentration. "We'll be drill­ing hard and hopefully we'll get our mental game back," said Roemer. 
Petro expects the Irish to win both matches this weekend as long as they play well. "I haven't given up on the season," she said. "I hope the players haven't given up either." 
"The first and third quarters, be­cause they come at the start and af­ter intermission, tend not to be settled, so there's usually a little more offense," explained O'Leary. "After a while, the defense can make adjustments." 
"They scored more off our middies than off our defense during the first and third quarters, but then we didn't have our defensive middies in. When we did, we had a lot more success." 
The Notre Dame win changes the conference picture tremendously. Denison and Ohio Wesleyan had been tied for first with undefeated records, with the Irish one game be­hind. With the win, Notre Dame im­proved its conference mark to 6-1 ( 7-3 overall), putting the Irish a game behind Ohio Wesleyan which has to play Denison in the final game of the season. A Denison win could give Notre Dame a shot at the title. 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 16 
champion Macri's Deli, and The Windy City Five takes the court against Scratch Twice and the Three Itches at 6:15. 
Ed Smierciak and Four Other Guys That Are Better ThanJohn Pax­son will attempt to outduel Brick Throwers at 5:15 on Bookstore 10. Tequila White Lightning IV and Motown will play the second game on that court. 
The Observer needs writers to cover spring and fall sports. Though some experience is nice, all that's needed is a true interest in sports. 
Call Mike Sullivan at 239·5303, or stop by the office, 3rd Floor LaFortune for more information. 

The Observer Thursday,April26, 1984-page 14 
Many close games highlight action 
Associated Press 
Mets 2, Expos I 

MONTREAL -George Foster's singk s<:ornl Keith Hernandez from second hase to give the New York Mets a 2-1 extra-innings victory over Montreal, snapping the Expos four­game winning streak. 
Reliever George Harris retired the first two hatters in the I lth hcfore Hernandez douhlcd into the right centerfield gap. Foster followed hy 
singling sharply  through  the  left  
side.  
Jesse  Orosco,  2-0,  pitched  two  

scoreless innings to pickup the win, giving him nine scoreless innings in five appt·arances this season. 
Cards 7, Cubs 5 

ST. LOlliS -Willie McGee had three hits as the St. Louis Cardinals hroke a sevt·n-game losing streak, rallying from a 4-1 deficit for a 7-'; victory over the Chicago Cuhs Wed­nt·sday. 
The Cardinals took tht· lead <;-4 with four runs in the fourth inning. 
Ken Oherkfcll opened the inning with a single and McGee tripled him home. Pinch hitter Andy Van Slyke singled in McGee. 
Steve Braun followed with a pinch-hit single. chasing a pitch from Dick Ruthven, 2-1. Lonnie Smith greeted Rich Bordi with a looping single over second hase, scoring Van Slyke. The final run of the rally came when Ozzie Smith groundt·d to first, driving in Braun. 
Jeff Lahti, 1-1, pitched the fourth and fifth innings to pick up the vic­tory. Bruce Sutter workcd the ninth for his fifth savc. 
Phillies 8, Pirates 7 
PIIILADEI.PHIA Mike Schmidt's two-run douhle, and Glenn Wilson's tic-breaking single climaxed a t1ve-run sixth inning that carried the Philadelphia Phillit·s to an H-7 victory over tht· Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Reliever Tug McGraw, 1-0, gained the victory while AlHolland earned his fourth save, despite ~o:iving up a ninth-inning run on singles hy Lee Mazzilli and Lee Lacy and an RBI douhle hy Bill Madlock. Pirates reliever Lee Tunnell, 0-1, was the losn. 
Reds 4, Braves 3 

ATLANTA -Tom Lawless hclted his t1rst career home run. and Dave Concepcion homaed as Mario Soto and tht· Cincinnati Reds heat the At-
A.I.S. Shipping and Packaging 

You wrap or we wrap 3617 Mishawaka Ave. Mishawaka at Logan Mon.-Fri. 8:30-5:00 We Ship Exclusively UPS 

LIQUIDATION and Electronics Sale 

Pioneer, Sanyo, Sansul, Jensen Craig, and much, much more Major distribution outlet to liquid 
ate to the walls regardless of cost. Save on turntables, receivers speakers, equalizers, car audi and more. 
Over $500,000 Retail Savings to 75 percent 

Telephones $5.99 Cordless phones $59.99 
SUPER SALE 
Notre Dame ACC' atches $2.99' Sat10·9 ichael Jackson Sun12·6 
Poster $1.49 
lanta Braves 4-3. 
Soto, 2-1, took a four-hitter into the eighth inning when he gave up three hits -including a two-run homer hy ClaudeU Washington ­without getting an out. It took three relievers to get the Reds out of the inning, with Brad Lesley finishing up 
for  his  first  save  in  his  first  ap­ 
pearance of the season.  
Washington's  homer  was  his  

sixth, three coming offSoto, and cut the Reds' lead to one. 
Padres 3, Giants 0 

SAN DIEGO -Tony Gwynn helted a solo homer and Kevin McReynolds added a two-run shot, while Eric Show and Goose Gossage 
combined for a three-hitter as the San Dkgo Padres topped the San Francisco Giants 3-0 for a sweep of their three-game series. 
Gwynn added a singk to go with his homer off Bill Laskey, 0-2, and lifit·d his hatting average to .464. Gwynn also extended his hitting streak to seven games, during which he has I <; hits in 26 at hats for a .577 averagt·. 
Show, 3-1, went seven innings and gave up just three hits. 
Dodgers 4, Astros 2 

LOS ANGELES -Fernando Valen­zuela fired a three-hitter, taking a no­hitter into the seventh inning, and Terry Whitfield drove in three runs, two with a homer, as the Los Angeles 
Dodgers posted their fourth straight 
victory, beating Houston 4-2. 
Valenzuela, 2-2, lost his no-hit bid 
when Enos Cabell lined a clean 
single to left with one out in the 
seventh. The only other hits were a 
one-out single in the eighth hy Tim 
Tolman and a two-out single in the 
same inning by Kevin Bass to ruin 
the shutout, following a throwing er­
ror by Steve Sax. 
Blue Jays II, A's 0 
TORONTO -Jesse Barfield 
drove in four runs to back the five­
hit pitching of Luis Leal, and Damaso 
Garcia set a club record with four 
stolen bases to lead the Toronto 
Blue Jays to a 11-0 rout of the Oak­
land A's. 
The Blue Jays, who had 17 hits, put the game away in the fourth when they sent I 0 hatters to the plate. 
Red Sox 2, Mariners 1 
BOSTON -Bruce Hurst pitched a five-hitter as the Boston Red Sox edged Jim Beattie and the Seattle Mariners 2-1 on run-scoring hits hy Rich Gedman and Tony Armas. 
The Red Sox took a 1-0 lead in the fourth. Armas grounded a single to center, took third on a single by Mike Easler and scored as Gedman hit a pop-fly douhle down the left­field line. 
see MAJORS, page 12 

Thursday Night Special 
3 • 8PM Mixed Drinks 2 for 1 
Corby Open Golf Tourney-Tee-times at Corby's 

• 
• 
WANTED: 

• 
Any student interested in


• 
: • applying for positions of 

•

• PRODUCER and DIRECTOR •• 
•

• for STUDENT PLAYERS (1985-6):.
• 
• e •• 
: sign up on 2ndFLoor, LaFortune, : • Student Activities Board • 
: Deadline: FRIDAY, APRIL 27 : 
·····························~ 

15% Discount "' not including
sale items 
N.D.-S.M.C. 
JEWElERS 
Students 
SINCE 1917
FOX'S 
DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

~:;:':':·:·:'::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'1::::~:;
fLouis & Carmella Rappelli, owners of Louie's f t Family Restaurant thank the editor and staff {t of The Observer, and Mr. Rob Bayne, features t ~=~:staff writer for the warm and well-written }rarticle which recently appeared. :I ::;: In appreciation to the tremendous response :;:: ~~~~ we offer this special t ~m $2.00 off a lg. Pizza f f $1.00 off a med. Pizza } m~ $1.00 off any Spaghetti Dinner } 
} offergood till 5/2 { ( Louies Family Restaurant { t 744 N. Notre Dame Ave. f f 233 · 4044 open Tues.·Sat. at Spm ~[~ 
~=~=======================================================:===================================================;=;=;=:=;='='='::::::=========:==============:=======<:=:=:>=======/~ 

VAN LINES 

Bluns this weeiJend ~ Fri.'& Sat. -movies, 
shopping, dining~.,-Uriiv-Jsity Park Mall and 
Town & Country. 50¢ Round trip. Pay as you 
board atND Circle, Grotto, SMC Holy Cross Circle 
Hourly departures begin at 5:00 on friday and 
4:00on Sat. 




~4(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------Th-u_r_~_a_y_,A_p_r_il_2_6_,1_9_8_4_-_P_ag•e-1
..5 

Bloom Connty 
CI<AY Mt.M9EK5 •.1H£ f/Rffr MU..aT HAS BEeN CAST ANP H£R£ AR£ 11/E f?£fJ/t.TS Of1IIE PRE51116NrlA/... NOM!Nitf/ONS ... 
I 


Mellish 

I 
I 


"Pull!" 

JOHN AWER!!JON : 3 vores. 
6/..IZA8e111 flotE : 3 VOTE5. C,. bORI10f.l UllPY : 2 VOTF.fl. Sf6V£ PAl./...A5 : 1 VOTe ••• 
I 

NOW,FD~ THE N.D. 
STUDINT·OH· Tiff• MIV£, A&COHO&. Pol."'f TDILfT PA'IR! '' 


Y.PERFORIITEP 
OF THIS TOILE.r PAPE/t lEAR$ ONE DF fNE ~rffi'/OMENTS TO NOTRI DAME.'S NEWLY-II'IPI\1~ 
AlCOHOL PltiC'/,,. 
\. 

The Far Side 
Berke Breathed 
ANP ONE: SYMPATHY VOT£ FOR WK E:ST!?AV'A. 
I HE. NEWS 

&Dave 


Campus 

•3 
p.m. -Lectures, The Literary Conception of Reality: Freud in Theory," Prof. Daniel O'Hara, 202 CCE and "From Structures of Meaning to the Meaning of Structures: Semiotics, Criticism, and the Theatre," Prof. Michael Hayes, 202 CCE 

•3:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Robotics -An Over· view," Prof. W. A. Wolovich, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4:30 
p.m. AROTC Spring Awards Ceremony, Library Auditorium 

•4:30 
p.m. -Graduate Fellowship Prayer Group, Bulla House 

•6:30 
p.m. -Ground Zero Meeting, CSC 

•7 
p.m. -Environmental Concerns Organiza­tion General Meeting, general meeting and elec­tions, Lewis Party Room 

•7, 
9, and 11 p.m. -Film, "Mr. Mom," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Union, $1 

•7:30 
p.m. -Film, "The Face of Another," Wash· ington Hall 

•7:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Architecture," Prof. Nor­man Crowe, Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:30 
p.m. -YES Concert, ACC, $12.50 per person 

•8 
p.m. -Play, "Camelot," Bendix Theatre, Cen­tury Center, S4 at the SU Record Store, $6 at the door 

•8 
p.m. -Opera, "Hansel and Gretel," Little Theatre, Sponsored by SMC Music Department, ND/SMC students and children free, S l all others 

•8 
p.m. -Lecture, "Marginal Politics," Prof Donald Pease, Library Lounge 

•8 
p.m. -ND/SMC Young Democrats Meeting, elections for next years officers, New Orleans Room, LaFortune 


TV Tonight 
8p.m.  16  Gimme A Break  
22  Magnum PI  
28  That's Incredible  
8:30p.m.  16  Family Ties  
9p.m.  16  Cheers  
22  Simon and Simon  
28  Two Marriages  
9:30p.m.  16  Duck Factory  
10p.m.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
llp.m.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
11:30p.m.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Trapperjohn/ CBS Late Movie  
28  ABC News Nightline  

35 Aroma 55 Stationery 37 "-Brute" unit 40 Liqueur 56 Witty

The Daily Crossword 
41 Poetic response rhythm: var. 57 Coffee 42 Conway servers ACROSS 25 Appraises 64 Fr. cheese 9 Appeared the comic 58 Border 
1 "My­29 Agitated 65 Fluff 10 Onewho 47 Soundness lake Duchess" state 66 Multlplica· assembles of mind 
59 Tibetan 5 Spills over 33 Jap. adml· tlonword 11 Norwegian 49 -carte monk 
10 Expense ral royal name 50 Crying 60 Natives:
67 Ireland 14 Rose's 36 Type of gin 68-dixit 12 Trucker's one suff. fellow 38 Down·under 69 Leavening rig 53 Strange 61 Elan 15 Martinique "bear" 70 Staff 13 Pedicure 54 Agitates 62 151 volcano 39 Puccini notation Item 
16 Bread heroine 21 Memorable Wedne~ay's Solution 
spread 17 Warning 
word 18 Spry 19 Gold 
brocade 
20 John Web· ster hero­Ine 
23 Ranch animal 24 Guido's note 
43 Isolated 44 Against 45 Golf peg 46 Earns 48 Fr. author 51 Mrs.ln 
Mex. 52 Wind deposit 56 Shakespeare 
monarch 62 Brusque 63 Incensed 

DOWN 1 Cheryl and 
Alan 2 Circa 3 From the 
time that 4 Restrain 5 Watering 
places 6 Props 7 Medley 8 lll·gotten 
gain 
time 
22 Similar 26 Mao -·tung 27 Exile 
isle 28 Healthy 30 Tool handle 31 She: Fr. 32 Comedienne 
Martha 33 Muslim leader 34 Story 



TONIGHT 


$1.00 7:00 9:00 11:00 Engineering Auditorium 


©1984 Tribune Company Syndicate, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
BEER GARDEN AT SENIOR BAR An Tostal continues the fun with bMw•pedals 
for everyone. 


r-----------------­
Thursday, April 26, 1984 -page 16
SRorts 
Lacrosse squad gains 'most important win' 
By MIKE SULLIVAN faceoff duties, but each had great .\j)()rts l:'dilor success as the Irish controlled 20 of the game's 2'5 faceoffs. Notre Dame's 
Notre Dame's 12-11 lacrosse vic­ability to stay on the offensive tory on Cartic:r Field yesterday over through most of the third and fourth pcn·nnial Midwest power lknison quarters kept Denison from getting College may not ht· comparable to many opportunities to erase its the Irish football team's surprise deficit. defeat of Army in 1913, hut, just as An adjustment in shooting was an­tht· Army win was so important to other key. Throughout the first half tht· relatively unknown football and the first few minutes of the program, the lacrosst· victory marks second, the Denison goalie was the most important win in the his­having great success blocking low tory of the: young program. shots. When O'Leary told his players 
"This was the biggest win in the to aim their shots higher, the lead history of the program," said Irish quickly changed hands. t·oac:h Rich O'Lt·ary after watching "We noticed that their goalie was his tt·am usc a third-quarter of­going low even before we shot the fensive: c:xplosion to hc:at its hall," O'Leary explained. "We just nationally-ranked Division Ill op­told the guys to concentrate on get­ponc:nt. "We've: come close to thc:m ting their shots up." in a couple of games, so it was real The Irish offense having put the nice: to finally heat them. They had team ahead, it was left to the defense 
joe Franklin ( 11) uses a pick set by Bob Trocchi Trocchi em:h scored three goals in the contest. Mike
sc:c:mt·d to he on a real roll coming to keep Denison at hay. And, with 
(45) in hectic action during Notre Dame's 12-11 vic­Sullivan has the details on the game at left.
in, hut our guys played a great the exception of a brief breakdown 
tory' over Denison College yesterday. Franklin and

second half." that allowed the visitors to cut the 
Ironically, it was a strong third lead to I I-I 0 with I 0 minutes left in quarter, in which Notre Dame out­the game, the tough zone defense scored tht· visitors, 6-4, that turnc:d did what it was supposed to do -Close contests the game toward the Irish. In the keep Denison away from the net and past, poor play in the third quarter make it throw the hall away. frequently has taken them out of Meanwhile, Notre Dame was 
Free shots decide Bookstore games 
games. llowever, in yesterday's taking its time when it had control of ganll', Notre Dame rebounded from the hall and Denison found that it By PHIL WOLF free-throw shooting that made the up short on defense a'i well. Greg a two-goal deficit to score six goals was running out oftime to avoid the Sports Writer difference. Russell shot a perfect 7-for-7, and in hardy ovt·r six minutes. The ex­upset. When Quinn bounced a shot The Modern Lovers grabbed a 23-Bob Micheal hit 8-of-9 to lead Brick plosion allowed the: Irish to grab a into the Denison net with 4:2I left in Bookstore Basketball XIII finally 2I victory over Team I36, as Dennis Throwers to the eao;y 2 1-8 win. As a lt:ad that they never relinquished. the game, Denison came slightly has its Sweet Sixteen, as Round Five Ryan scored his only point of the team, the Brick Throwers shot 2I­
Notre Dame's ability to win unglued and made s1ime bad passes, saw the demise of half of the 32 game on the winning free throw. for-27. the best team percentagt· faceoffs proved to he quite valuable keeping itself from a last-minute teams in action yesterday. The shot looked at first as though it thus far in Bookstore XIII. throughout the game. Midficldc:rs Many of the games were close would not fall, as the ball bounced Macri's Deli rolled to a 2I-'5 vic­
see LAX, page 13 

Mike Quinn and Boh Carillo split the battles, and in several contests it was off the rim and sailed about six feet tory over Where's the Queef? on 2I­Mraight up in the air before drop­for-36 shooting, and The Windy City ping back through the hoop for the Five destroyed Spoofhounds IV, 21­
Clementz shines winning point. 
7, also on 2I-for-36 shooting. Mike Cannon took the honors as In other fifth-round action, Jimmy the best Lover yesterday, hitting six G and the Spots downed Corby 
of his 13 shots for his team, which Tooters, 21-I '5, while Shysters took 
shot 23-for-66 overall. Team 136 hit Big Swahilis by the same score. By ERIC SCHEUERMANN in the Midwestern City Conference four hits. He improved his record to 2! I-of-4S in its losing effort. Armed and Dangerous II beat .\ports Writer is2-4. 3-2 . Motown was another overtime Sometimes You Just Got to Say ..., 
The Irish started the string of In the second contest, Notre winner in yesterday's games, 21-16, and Scratch Twice and the 
A busy schedule of games over games with a doubleheader last Dame jumped out to a 1-0 lead in the downing Bleeding Ax Wounds II, Three Itches edged Over the Limit, Easter hrt·ak <:hanged nothing for Wednesday at Purdue. An errorless frrst, but the Boilermakers quickly 27-25. Motown hit only 23-of-62 21-18. the Notre Dame baseball team. The first game by Notre Dame led to a came back against Irish starter Mark from the field to Bleeding Ax Wound Anyplace, Anytime found that the Irish continue to play inconsistently 4-1 victory. Clementz. After six innings, Purdue Il's 2S-of-67, but the winners hit four place was Stepan 2 and the time was and arc still struggling to reach the Captain Carl Vuono led the Irish le~ 3-2. of their 10 free throws, while the '5:30 p.m. yesterday when the team .SOO mark with two hits, including a solo Notre Dame took the lead back in losing team missed all eight ofits at­eliminatedJohn 3:16 by a nine-point 
After a string of eight gamt·s in homer in the fourth inning, and the seventh inning, scoring two runs tt~mpts from the line. Vince Antonac­margin. Now or Never made it which the team went '5-3, the Irish drove in two runs. Buster Lopes on an error and a sacrifice fly by ci paced Motown with I I points. "now" at 6: I '5 p.m. on Stepan 2 and now stand I 7-18. The team's record pitched a fine game, allowing only Mike Metzler. Irish hopes were Return of Pigbag was able to win dismissed Virtualllnknowns, 21-17. crushed, however, when Purdue in the regulation minimum 21 In the Battle of Sorin, Tequila came back with two doubles and a points, but it was foul shooting that White Lightning IV overcame Sorin single off reliever Joe Dobosh. Two gave the team tht· 21-18 victory over rector Edward "Monk" Malloy and runs came in, giving the Boiler­Padres. The losers scored all 18 of The Shootist, 21-I2. The Shootist makers a 5-4 win. their poims from the field, while never trailed by more than two in The Irish returned with a I3-16 R·eturn of Pighag made only I 7 Held the first half, but Tequila White record to the friendly confines of goals. Padres gave the eventual win­Lightning IV went on a scoring spree Jake Kline Field for a crucial series ners eight trips to the charity stripe, and took a 20-1 I lead in the second against conference foe Detroit. and Return of Pigbag converh:d the half before Malloy scored his team's 
In the opener of a doubleheader opportunities into four points. last point on one of his familiar 22­on Saturday, the Irish suffered a 7-I The Padres made a run for the foot jump shots. loss. Detroit scored three times in game late in the contest by scoring The other winners yesterday the first and once in the second off four unanswered points to come were Fun Bunch Five ( 21-I I over Irish starter Lopes. Reliever Dobosh from six points behind at 20-14 to Corby's Three Reverends of Jesse fared no better, allowing three more within two at 20-I8, before David Jackson and Two Guys to Attract the runs to score to score in the fourth. Gaus hit a free throw for the victory. White Vote) and Ed Smierciak and 
A sterling pitching performance Rousseau's Noble Savages was an­Four Other Guys That Are Better by Clementz in the second contest other team that escaped defeat by Than John Paxson ( 2I-I I over led Notre Dame to a I -0 victory. hitting the clutch free throws. WBBS Showtime). 
"Mark pitched a great game in the on the Air Again outshot the Savages, Today, the Sweet Sixteen will go nightcap," commented Irish Head 19-18, and trailed by only one at I8-at it at 5:15p.m. and 6: l S p.m. on the Coach Larry Gallo on the senior 17, but two late foul shots by Jim Bookstore and Stepan courts. The southpaw's performance. Sower negated two field goals by sixth round promises to be even 
Clementz held the Titans to only Dan Dressel, and WBBS went off the more exciting than previous rounds, three hits over eight innings, but the air for the remainder of Bookstore as the competition begins to peak. Irish could not hit Detroit hurler XIII. and the finals are in sight at last. Bob Martin until Mike Doming Brian Behmer hit a short jumper Stepan I is the site of the singled home the game's only run in from the key to give Rousseau's matchups ofShysters against Now or the bottom of the eighth. Noble Savages the 2I-I9 victory. Be­Never at S: IS and Fun Bunch Five 
Still struggling to climb over the hmer was high scorer for the game against Rousseau's Noble Savages at . '500 mark, the Irish faced Valparaiso on I 0-for-17 shooting from the field 6:IS. in a doubleheader on Tuesday. In a and 1-for-2 from the line. The Modern Lovers meet Return pair of dose games, Notre Dame Some of the teams playing yester­of Pighag in the first game on Stepan swept the Crusaders by scores of9-5 day did not have to rely on free 5, followed hy Jimmy G and the and 8-7. throws, as their opponents failed to Spots against Armed and Dangerous 
The Irish pounded Valparaiso provide the challenge of close II. Mark Clementz fires a pitch in pitching for II hits in the first game, games. On Bookstore 9 at '5:I '5, Anyplace, the 7-1 Irish victory 011er Bowling 
Irish diamondmen improve record 
managing to score two runs in the Brick Throwers was one team that Anytime challenges defending Green yesterday. Clementz, who was able to coast over an outclassed pi<·ked up three wins in action since see BASEBALL, page 11 see BOOKSTORE, page 13 
opponent, as Short on Height came 




